Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在颛顼，命南正重以司天，北正黎以司地。
唐虞之际，绍重黎之後，使复典之，至于夏商，故重黎氏世序天地。
其在周，程伯休甫其後也。
当周宣王时，失其守而为司马氏。
司马氏世典周史。
惠襄之间，司马氏去周適晋。
晋中军随会奔秦，而司马氏入少梁。
自司马氏去周适晋，分散，或在卫，或在赵，或在秦。
其在卫者，相中山。
在赵者，以传剑论显，蒯聩其後也。
在秦者名错，与张仪争论，於是惠王使错将伐蜀，遂拔，因而守之。
错孙靳，事武安君白起。
而少梁更名曰夏阳。
靳与武安君阬赵长平军，还而与之俱赐死杜邮，葬於华池。
靳孙昌，昌为秦主铁官，当始皇之时。
蒯聩玄孙卬为武安君将而徇朝歌。
诸侯之相王，王卬於殷。
汉之伐楚，卬归汉，以其地为河内郡。
昌生无泽，无泽为汉巿长。
无泽生喜，喜为五大夫，卒，皆葬高门。
喜生谈，谈为太史公。
太史公学天官於唐都，受易於杨何，习道论於黄子。
太史公仕於建元元封之间，愍学者之不达其意而师悖，乃论六家之要指曰：
translation: 
In the past, when Zhuanxu ruled the world, he appointed Nan Zhengzhong to be in charge of astronomy and Bei Zhengli to be in charge of geography.
During the Tang and Yu dynasties, the descendants of Chong and Li continued to be in charge of astronomy and geography until the Xia and Shang dynasties. Therefore, the Chongli family was in charge of astronomy and geography for generations.
During the Zhou Dynasty, Cheng Boxiu Fu was their descendant.
During the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, the Chongli family became the Sima family because they lost their official position.
The Sima family has been in charge of Zhou history for generations.
During the reigns of King Zhou Hui and King Zhou Xiang, the Sima family left the capital of Zhou and went to the Kingdom of Jin.
Later, the marshal of the Jin army fled to Qin, and the Sima family also moved to Shaoliang.
Since the Sima clan left Zhou and came to Jin, the clan members were scattered in various places, some in Wei State, some in Zhao State, and some in Qin State.
In the Wei State, he became the Prime Minister of the Zhongshan State.
In the State of Zhao, they were famous for teaching the theory of swordsmanship, and Kuai Kuai was their descendant.
A man named Sima Cuo who lived in Qin State once had a dispute with Zhang Yi, so King Qin Hui sent Sima Cuo to lead an army to attack Shu State. After the capture, he made him the governor of Shu.
Sima Jin, the grandson of Sima Cuo, served Wu Xinjun Bai Qi.
Shaoliang has been renamed Xia Yang.
Sima Jin and Wu Xinjun killed the Changping Army of Zhao State. After returning, they were killed in Duyou together with Wu Xinjun and buried in Huachi.
Sima Chang, the grandson of Sima Jin, was an official in charge of iron smelting in the State of Qin. He lived in the era of Qin Shihuang.
Sima Xian, the great-great-grandson of Kuai Chi, was a general under Wu Xinjun and led troops to capture Chaoge.
When the princes were vying to be king, Sima An became king in Yin.
When Liu Bang, the king of Han, attacked Xiang Yu, the overlord of Chu, Sima An surrendered to the king of Han, and the Han Dynasty made the Yin region Hanoi County.
Sima Chang gave birth to Sima Wuze, who served as the mayor of the Han Dynasty.
Wuze gave birth to Sima happy. Sima happy was awarded the title of five great officials. After his death, they were all buried in Gaomen.
Sima Xi gave birth to Sima Tan, who became Grand Historian.
Tai Shigong studied astronomy from Tang Du, the Book of Changes from Yang He, and Taoist theory from Huang Zi.
Tai Shigong was an official from Jianyuan to Yuanfeng. He was worried that scholars could not understand the essence of each school and what they learned was contradictory, so he discussed the essence of the six schools of Yin and Yang, Confucianism, Mohism, Ming, Dharma and Taoism:


Chunk 1: 
original: 
易大传： 天下一致而百虑，同归而殊涂。
夫阴阳、儒、墨、名、法、道德，此务为治者也，直所从言之异路，有省不省耳。
尝窃观阴阳之术，大祥而众忌讳，使人拘而多所畏；然其序四时之大顺，不可失也。
儒者博而寡要，劳而少功，是以其事难尽从；然其序君臣父子之礼，列夫妇长幼之别，不可易也。
墨者俭而难遵，是以其事不可遍循；然其彊本节用，不可废也。
法家严而少恩；然其正君臣上下之分，不可改矣。
名家使人俭而善失真；然其正名实，不可不察也。
道家使人精神专一，动合无形，赡足万物。
其为术也，因阴阳之大顺，采儒墨之善，撮名法之要，与时迁移，应物变化，立俗施事，无所不宜，指约而易操，事少而功多。
儒者则不然。
translation: 
"Zhouyi·Xici Zhuan" says: People all over the world pursue the same thing, but their specific plans are diverse; they achieve the same goal, but the methods they take are different.
Yin-Yang, Confucianism, Mohism, Mingjia, Legalism and Taoism are all schools dedicated to how to achieve peace and order in the world, but the doctrines they follow are not the same, some are explicit and some are not.
I have studied the art of Yin and Yang in private, and found that it focuses on the omens of good and bad luck, and has many taboos, which makes people restrained and fearful. However, the Yin and Yang family's principles on the order of the four seasons of the year cannot be discarded.
Confucianism is extensive but rarely grasps the essentials. It takes effort but has little effect. Therefore, it is difficult to fully comply with the ideas of this school. However, it enshrines the etiquette of monarch, minister, father and son, and the distinction between husband and wife, elder and younger, which cannot be changed.
The Mohist school is frugal and difficult to follow, so all the ideas of this school cannot be followed, but its idea of ​​emphasizing the power of this school cannot be discarded.
Legalism advocates harsh punishments but unkindness, but its idea of ​​correcting the status of kings and ministers cannot be changed.
Famous scholars make people constrained and easily lose their authenticity; but the relationship between the rectification of names and reality must be carefully examined.
Taoism makes people's minds focused and their actions consistent with the invisible Tao, making all things abundant.
Taoist techniques are based on the Yin-Yang theory on the order of the four seasons, absorbing the strengths of Confucianism and Mohism, summarizing the essence of naming and Dharma, developing with the development of the times, adapting to changes in things, establishing good customs, and applying to personnel without any inappropriateness. The meaning is concise and concise and easy to grasp, with less effort and more effects.
This is not the case with Confucianism.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
以为人主天下之仪表也，主倡而臣和，主先而臣随。
如此则主劳而臣逸。
至於大道之要，去健羡，绌聪明，释此而任术。
夫神大用则竭，形大劳则敝。形神骚动，欲与天地长久，非所闻也。
夫阴阳四时、八位、十二度、二十四节各有教令，顺之者昌，逆之者不死则亡，未必然也，故曰 使人拘而多畏 。
夫春生夏长，秋收冬藏，此天道之大经也，弗顺则无以为天下纲纪，故曰 四时之大顺，不可失也 。
夫儒者以六艺为法。六艺经传以千万数，累世不能通其学，当年不能究其礼，故曰 博而寡要，劳而少功 。
若夫列君臣父子之礼，序夫妇长幼之别，虽百家弗能易也。
translation: 
They believe that the monarch is an example for the people in the world. The monarch initiates and his subordinates respond. The monarch goes first and his subordinates follow.
In this way, the monarch will be tired while his subjects will be at ease.
As for the main point of the Great Way, it is to abandon strength and greed, get rid of intelligence and wisdom, put these aside and use wisdom to govern the world.
Overuse of the spirit will lead to exhaustion, and overuse of the body will lead to fatigue. It is unheard of to want to stay with heaven and earth for a long time when the body and spirit are disturbed and have no peace.
Yin and Yang practitioners believe that the four seasons, eight positions, twelve degrees and twenty-four solar terms each have their own set of appropriate and taboo rules. If you follow them, you will prosper, and if you violate them, you will die. This may not be right, so it is said that the Yin and Yang family makes people constrained and fearful.
Spring growth, summer growth, autumn harvest, and winter storage are important laws of nature. Without complying with them, it is impossible to formulate the order of the world, so the movement of the four seasons cannot be abandoned.
Confucianism uses the "Six Arts" such as "Poetry", "Book", "Yi", "Li", "Spring and Autumn", and "Music" as its formula, and there are tens of millions of texts and interpretations of the "Six Arts". Several generations have not been able to understand their knowledge, and they will not be able to exhaustively study their etiquette in their lifetimes. Therefore, Confucianism is said to be broad but rarely grasps the essentials, and it takes effort but has little effect.
As for the sequence of etiquette between father and son, the distinction between husband and wife, even the other hundreds of schools of thought cannot replace its contribution.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
墨者亦尚尧舜道，言其德行曰： 堂高三尺，土阶三等，茅茨不翦，采椽不刮。
食土簋，啜土刑，粝粱之食，藜霍之羹。
夏日葛衣，冬日鹿裘。
其送死，桐棺三寸，举音不尽其哀。
教丧礼，必以此为万民之率。
使天下法若此，则尊卑无别也。
夫世异时移，事业不必同，故曰 俭而难遵 。
要曰彊本节用，则人给家足之道也。
此墨子之所长，虽百家弗能废也。
法家不别亲疏，不殊贵贱，一断於法，则亲亲尊尊之恩绝矣。
可以行一时之计，而不可长用也，故曰 严而少恩 。
若尊主卑臣，明分职不得相逾越，虽百家弗能改也。
translation: 
The Mohists also advocated the ways of Yao and Shun, and talked about their moral behavior and said: The entrance to the hall is three feet high, and the earth steps under the hall are only three layers. The roof is made of thatch without pruning, and the rafters are made of oak without scraping.
They eat with Tao Gui, drink soup with Tao Gui, and eat wild vegetable soup made from brown rice and quinoa.
Wear Gebu clothes in summer and deerskin fur in winter.
The Mohist family made only a three-inch-thick Paulownia wood coffin for the funeral of the deceased. The mourners could not fully express their grief but wept.
Teaching people funeral rites must be a unified standard for all people.
Suppose everyone in the world did this. Then there is no difference between high and low.
Generations are different, times are changing, and people may not necessarily do the same things, so Mohism is said to be frugal and difficult to follow.
The main point of Mohist theory can be applied in this section, which is the way for everyone to have abundance and every family to be prosperous.
This is the strength of Mozi's theory, and even the hundreds of schools of thought cannot abandon it.
Legalism does not distinguish between closeness and distance, high or low, and all decisions are based on laws. Then the loving relationship between relatives and elders will be severed.
These can be implemented as a temporary solution, but they cannot be used for a long time, so the preacher is harsh, mean and unkind.
As for the Legalist view that the monarch is noble and his ministers are humble, and that the names and duties of superiors and subordinates are clear and cannot transcend each other, even the theory of hundreds of schools of thought cannot be changed.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
名家苛察缴绕，使人不得反其意，专决於名而失人情，故曰 使人俭而善失真 。
若夫控名责实，参伍不失，此不可不察也。
道家无为，又曰无不为，其实易行，其辞难知。
其术以虚无为本，以因循为用。
无成埶，无常形，故能究万物之情。
不为物先，不为物後，故能为万物主。
有法无法，因时为业；有度无度，因物与合。
故曰 圣人不朽，时变是守。
虚者道之常也，因者君之纲 也。
群臣并至，使各自明也。
其实中其声者谓之端，实不中其声者谓之窾。
窾言不听，奸乃不生，贤不肖自分，白黑乃形。
在所欲用耳，何事不成。
乃合大道，混混冥冥。
光翟天下，复反无名。
translation: 
Famous artists are so detailed and complicated that they make it difficult for people to seek their meaning. Everything depends on the concept and name, but common sense is lost. Therefore, it makes people constrained and easily loses authenticity.
As for following the name and being responsible for the reality, it requires comparison and verification between the name and the actual situation, which must be carefully examined.
Taoism talks about "doing nothing" and "doing everything without doing anything". Its practical propositions are easy to implement, but its rhetoric is deep and subtle, making it difficult to understand clearly.
Its doctrine takes nothingness as its theoretical basis and conformity to nature as its practical principle.
Taoists believe that things do not have an established trend or permanent shape, so they can explore the rationale of all things.
He does not do anything that transcends material conditions, nor does he do things that are behind material conditions, so he can become the master of all things.
There is a law but not the law as a law, and one must conform to the current situation in order to complete one's career; there is a degree but not a degree as a degree, and one must establish its own degree according to the shape of all things and be consistent with it.
Therefore, the reason why the thoughts and achievements of the saints are indelible lies in their ability to adapt to the changes of the times.
Nothingness is the eternal law of Tao, and obeying nature and responding to people is the outline of the monarch's governance of the country and the people.
When all the ministers come together, the monarch should let them clearly understand their respective duties.
If the actual situation is consistent with the reputation of his remarks, it is called Duan; if the actual situation is not consistent with the reputation of his remarks, it is called Su.
If you don't listen to empty words, evil will not arise. The virtuous and the unworthy will naturally be distinguished, and black and white will be clear.
The question is whether you want to use it or not. As long as you are willing to use it, nothing can be done.
Only in this way will it be in line with the Dao, a realm of chaos.
The brilliance shines on the world, and then returns to obscurity.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
凡人所生者神也，所讬者形也。
神大用则竭，形大劳则敝，形神离则死。
死者不可复生，离者不可复反，故圣人重之。
由是观之，神者生之本也，形者生之具也。
不先定其神，而曰 我有以治天下 ，何由哉？
太史公既掌天官，不治民。
有子曰迁。
迁生龙门，耕牧河山之阳。
年十岁则诵古文。
二十而南游江、淮，上会稽，探禹穴，闚九疑，浮於沅、湘；北涉汶、泗，讲业齐、鲁之都，观孔子之遗风，乡射邹、峄；戹困鄱、薛、彭城，过梁、楚以归。
於是迁仕为郎中，奉使西征巴、蜀以南，南略邛、笮、昆明，还报命。
是岁天子始建汉家之封，而太史公留滞周南，不得与从事，故发愤且卒。
而子迁適使反，见父於河洛之间。
translation: 
Ordinary people live because they have spirit, and the spirit is placed in the body.
If the spirit is overused, it will fail; if the body is overworked, it will be exhausted; if the body and spirit are separated, death will occur.
The dead cannot be resurrected, and the spirit and form cannot be reunited after being separated, so saints attach great importance to this issue.
From this point of view, spirit is the foundation of human life, and body is the support of life.
Without first stabilizing one's mind and body, but talking about how to govern the world, what can I rely on?
The official position of Taishi is in charge of astronomy and does not care about civil affairs.
Taishi Gong had a son named Qian.
Sima Qian was born in Longmen and lived a life of farming and animal husbandry in the north of the Yellow River and south of Longmen Mountain.
When he was only ten years old, he already learned to recite ancient Chinese prose.
At the age of 20, he began to travel south to the Jiang and Huai areas, climbed Mount Kuaiji, explored the Yu Cave, visited Mount Jiuyi, and rafted on the Yuan River and Xiang River. He crossed north to Wenshui and Sishui, studied learning in the cities of Qi and Shandong, investigated the legacy of Confucius, and performed the ritual of shooting in Zouxian and Yishan. He was trapped in Po, Xue, and Pengcheng, and returned to his hometown through the land of Liang and Chu.
So Sima moved out to serve as a doctor, and was ordered to go west to conquer the south of Bashu. He went south through Qiong, Zuo and Kunming, and returned to the court to return his orders.
In this year, the emperor began to hold the Han Dynasty's Zen ceremony, but Tai Shigong was stranded in Zhounan and could not participate in the ceremony. Therefore, he was so angry that he fell ill and was about to die.
His son Sima Qian happened to return from a mission and visited his father between the Yellow River and Luoshui.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太史公执迁手而泣曰： 余先周室之太史也。
自上世尝显功名於虞夏，典天官事。
後世中衰，绝於予乎？
汝复为太史，则续吾祖矣。
今天子接千岁之统，封泰山，而余不得从行，是命也夫，命也夫！
余死，汝必为太史；为太史，无忘吾所欲论著矣。
且夫孝始於事亲，中於事君，终於立身。
扬名於後世，以显父母，此孝之大者。
夫天下称诵周公，言其能论歌文武之德，宣周邵之风，达太王王季之思虑，爰及公刘，以尊后稷也。
幽厉之後，王道缺，礼乐衰，孔子脩旧起废，论诗书，作春秋，则学者至今则之。
自获麟以来四百有馀岁，而诸侯相兼，史记放绝。
今汉兴，海内一统，明主贤君忠臣死义之士，余为太史而弗论载，废天下之史文，余甚惧焉，汝其念哉！
迁俯首流涕曰： 小子不敏，请悉论先人所次旧闻，弗敢阙。
卒三岁而迁为太史令，史记石室金匮之书。
五年而当太初元年，十一月甲子朔旦冬至，天历始改，建於明堂，诸神受纪。
太史公曰： 先人有言： 自周公卒五百岁而有孔子。
孔子卒後至於今五百岁，有能绍明世，正易传，继春秋，本诗书礼乐之际？
意在斯乎！
translation: 
Taishi Gong held Sima Qian's hand and cried and said: Our ancestor was Taishi of the Zhou Dynasty.
As far back as the ancient Yu and Xia Dynasties, he had gained fame and was responsible for astronomical affairs.
Will the decline of future generations be cut off in my hands today?
If you continue to be Taishi, you will continue the work of our ancestors.
Now the emperor has inherited the great cause of the thousand-year unification of the Han Dynasty and is holding a Zen ceremony in Mount Tai, but I cannot accompany him. This is fate, it is fate!
After I die, you must become Taishi; when you become Taishi, don't forget the writings I want to write.
Furthermore, filial piety begins with serving parents, then serves the emperor, and finally establishes one's reputation.
It is the greatest filial piety to make one's name known to future generations to show off one's parents.
The world praises the Duke of Zhou, saying that he can expound and praise the merits of King Wen and King Wu, promote the customs of Zhou and Shao, understand the thoughts of Taiwang and Wang Ji, and even the achievements of Gong Liu, and respect the ancestor Hou Ji.
After King You and King Li of Zhou Dynasty, the royal way declined and the rituals and music declined. Confucius studied and sorted out the old classics, repaired and revitalized the abandoned and destroyed rituals and music, discussed the "Book of Songs" and "Book of Books", and wrote "Spring and Autumn", which scholars still use as a guideline.
In the more than four hundred years since Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, the princes have merged with each other and all the history books have been discarded.
Nowadays, the rise of the Han Dynasty, the unification of the country, the Ming Dynasty, the wise king, the loyal ministers, and the righteous people, I, as the Taishi, have not been able to comment on and record it, cutting off the world's history-making tradition. I am very scared about this, you must keep it in mind!
Sima Qian lowered his head and shed tears and said: "Although my son is stupid, I will detail the historical news compiled by my ancestors and dare not make any omissions."
Three years after Sima Tan's death, Sima moved to the post of Taishi Ling and began to collect historical books and archives collected by the state.
In the fifth year of Sima Qian's appointment as Taishi Ling, which was the first year of Taichu in the Han Dynasty, during the winter solstice on Jiazishuo day in November, the Han Dynasty's calendar began to use Xia Zheng, that is, the first month of the lunar calendar was the first month. The emperor held a ceremony to implement the new calendar in the Mingtang, and all the gods received auspiciousness.
Tai Shigong said: The ancestors said: Confucius came into being five hundred years after the death of Duke Zhou.
Five hundred years after the death of Confucius, is there anyone who can inherit the Qingming Dynasty, correct the "Yi Zhuan", continue the "Spring and Autumn", and interpret the "Poetry", "Book", "Ritual" and "Music"?
That's the purpose, that's it!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
意在斯乎！
小子何敢让焉。
上大夫壶遂曰： 昔孔子何为而作春秋哉？
太史公曰： 余闻董生曰： 周道衰废，孔子为鲁司寇，诸侯害之，大夫壅之。孔子知言之不用，道之不行也，是非二百四十二年之中，以为天下仪表，贬天子，退诸侯，讨大夫，以达王事而已矣。
子曰： 我欲载之空言，不如见之於行事之深切著明也。
夫春秋，上明三王之道，下辨人事之纪，别嫌疑，明是非，定犹豫，善善恶恶，贤贤贱不肖，存亡国，继绝世，补敝起废，王道之大者也。
translation: 
How dare I refuse.
The doctor Hu Sui asked: Why did Confucius write the Spring and Autumn Annals in the past?
Tai Shigong said: I heard Dong Sheng say: The kingship of the Zhou Dynasty declined and became derelict. Confucius served as the military commander of the Lu State. The princes were jealous of him and the ministers and officials obstructed him.
Confucius knew that his opinions were not accepted and his political ideas could not be implemented, so he praised and criticized the rights and wrongs of the two hundred and forty-two years as the standard for judging right and wrong in the world. He belittled the emperor who was unrighteous, reprimanded the princes who were wrong, and denounced the officials who were in chaos, just to make the country's political affairs clear.
Confucius said: Instead of setting out empty sermons, it would be better for me to cite the actions of those in power to see what is right and wrong, whether good or bad, so that it becomes more profound.
"Spring and Autumn" is a book that explains the governance of the three kings, distinguishes the rules of personnel, distinguishes suspicion, distinguishes right from wrong, decides on indecision, praises the good and hates the evil, respects the virtuous, and despises the unworthy. It allows the ruined country to exist and the severed lineage to continue. It repairs the decline and revitalizes the neglected industry. This is the greatest royal way.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
易著天地阴阳四时五行，故长於变；礼经纪人伦，故长於行；书记先王之事，故长於政；诗记山川谿谷禽兽草木牝牡雌雄，故长於风；乐乐所以立，故长於和；春秋辩是非，故长於治人。
是故礼以节人，乐以发和，书以道事，诗以达意，易以道化，春秋以道义。
拨乱世反之正，莫近於春秋。
春秋文成数万，其指数千。
万物之散聚皆在春秋。
春秋之中，弑君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走不得保其社稷者不可胜数。
察其所以，皆失其本已。
故易曰 失之豪釐，差以千里 。
故曰 臣弑君，子弑父，非一旦一夕之故也，其渐久矣 。
translation: 
"Yi" records the heaven and earth, yin and yang, four seasons, and five elements, so it is good at explaining changes; "Li" regulates human relations, so it is good at doing things; "Book" records the deeds of the previous kings, so it is good at politics; "Poetry" It records mountains, rivers, valleys, animals, plants and trees, and males and females, so it is good at customs and customs; "Yue" is a classic about how music builds people, so it is good at harmony; "Spring and Autumn" discusses right and wrong, so it is good at governing people.
It can be seen that "Li" is used to restrain people, "Music" is used to induce peace in people's hearts, "Book" is used to describe political affairs, "Poetry" is used to express feelings, "Yi" is used to talk about changes, and "Spring and Autumn" is used to discuss morality.
To put an end to troubled times and bring them back to the right path, no other work is more relevant and effective than the Spring and Autumn Annals.
"Spring and Autumn" only has tens of thousands of words, but its gist contains thousands of articles.
The separation and aggregation of all things are in "Spring and Autumn".
In the book "Spring and Autumn", thirty-six incidents of regicide were recorded, fifty-two countries were destroyed, and countless princes fled and failed to protect their countries.
Looking at the reasons for its chaos and defeat, we all lost the Spring and Autumn righteousness that was the foundation of the country.
Therefore, it is said in "Yi" that a slight deviation can make a difference of a thousand miles.
It is said that ministers kill kings and sons kill fathers. This does not happen overnight. It has been developing gradually for a long time.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
故有国者不可以不知春秋，前有谗而弗见，後有贼而不知。
为人臣者不可以不知春秋，守经事而不知其宜，遭变事而不知其权。
为人君父而不通於春秋之义者，必蒙首恶之名。
为人臣子而不通於春秋之义者，必陷篡弑之诛，死罪之名。
其实皆以为善，为之不知其义，被之空言而不敢辞。
夫不通礼义之旨，至於君不君，臣不臣，父不父，子不子。
夫君不君则犯，臣不臣则诛，父不父则无道，子不子则不孝。
此四行者，天下之大过也。
以天下之大过予之，则受而弗敢辞。
故春秋者，礼义之大宗也。
夫礼禁未然之前，法施已然之後；法之所为用者易见，而礼之所为禁者难知。
translation: 
Therefore, a ruler must not know the Spring and Autumn Annals, otherwise even a slanderous person standing in front of him will not see it, and a traitorous minister will not notice it if he follows closely behind.
A person who is a minister must not know "Spring and Autumn", otherwise he will only stick to the routine but not know how to adapt to the situation, and he will not know how to deal with emergencies flexibly.
If you are a king or a father who does not understand the essence of the Spring and Autumn Annals, you will definitely be called the worst offender.
If a minister or son of man does not understand the essence of the Spring and Autumn Annals, he will surely fall into the position of usurping the throne and being punished, and will be punished with death.
In fact, they all thought it was a good thing and did it just because they did not understand the righteousness of "Spring and Autumn", and they were criticized by historians for their untrue statements, but they did not dare to shirk the blame.
If we do not understand the essence of etiquette and justice, we will end up in a situation where the king is not like the king, the ministers are not like ministers, the father is not like father, and the son is not like son.
If the king is not like the king, he will be violated by his subordinates; if the minister is not like the minister, he will be killed; if the father is not like the father, he will be ignorant and dishonest; if the son is not like the son, he will be disobedient and unfilial.
These four evil deeds are the greatest sins in the world.
Even if the biggest sin in the world is placed on him, he has no choice but to accept it without daring to shirk it.
Therefore, the classic "Spring and Autumn" is the foundation of etiquette and justice.
Etiquette prohibits bad things before they happen, and laws and regulations are enforced after bad things happen. The effect of law enforcement is obvious, but the effect of etiquette prohibition is hidden and difficult to understand.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
壶遂曰： 孔子之时，上无明君，下不得任用，故作春秋，垂空文以断礼义，当一王之法。
今夫子上遇明天子，下得守职，万事既具，咸各序其宜，夫子所论，欲以何明？
太史公曰： 唯唯，否否，不然。
余闻之先人曰： 伏羲至纯厚，作易八卦。
尧舜之盛，尚书载之，礼乐作焉。
汤武之隆，诗人歌之。
春秋采善贬恶，推三代之德，襃周室，非独刺讥而已也。
汉兴以来，至明天子，获符瑞，封禅，改正朔，易服色，受命於穆清，泽流罔极，海外殊俗，重译款塞，请来献见者，不可胜道。
臣下百官力诵圣德，犹不能宣尽其意。
且士贤能而不用，有国者之耻；主上明圣而德不布闻，有司之过也。
且余尝掌其官，废明圣盛德不载，灭功臣世家贤大夫之业不述，堕先人所言，罪莫大焉。
余所谓述故事，整齐其世传，非所谓作也，而君比之於春秋，谬矣。
於是论次其文。
七年而太史公遭李陵之祸，幽於縲绁。
translation: 
Hu Sui said: In the time of Confucius, there was no sage monarch above, and he could not be appointed below, so he wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, leaving behind an empty historical text to judge etiquette and justice, and to serve as a code for emperors.
Now that you have met the Holy Son of Heaven, and that you are able to serve as an official, everything is already in place, and everything is in its proper place. What is it that you want to write about?
Tai Shigong said: Yes, yes, no, no, that is not entirely the case.
I heard my ancestors say: Fuxi is the most pure and honest person, and he wrote the Eight Diagrams of "Yi".
The prosperity of Yao and Shun was recorded in "Shangshu", and ritual and music emerged at that time.
The prosperity of the Shang, Tang, Zhou and Wu eras was praised by poets.
"Spring and Autumn" praises the good and denounces the evil, praises the virtues of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, and praises the Zhou royal family. It is not just a satire.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, to this day, the wise emperor has met Fu Rui, held a Zen ceremony, revised the calendar, changed the color of his clothes, and received orders from heaven. His favor has spread endlessly, and countless people from overseas countries with different customs have come to China's borders through multiple interpretations, requesting to pay homage.
The officials tried their best to praise the emperor's merits, but they still could not fully express their feelings.
Besides, it is a shame for a king to be a capable scholar but not appointed; it is the fault of the officials concerned that the monarch is a wise and sage but his merits cannot be spread widely so that everyone knows about them.
Moreover, I once held the position of Taishi Ling. If I abandon the emperor's saintly wisdom and virtues without recording them, bury the achievements of meritorious officials, aristocratic families, and wise officials without recording them, and violate my father's last words, the sin will be too great.
The retelling of old events and the compilation of family biographies of relevant people I am talking about are not so-called works. And if you compare it with "Spring and Autumn", you are wrong.
Then began to discuss the documents and materials obtained from the compilation.
In the seventh year, Tai Shigong suffered a disaster from Li Ling and was imprisoned.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
乃喟然而叹曰： 是余之罪也夫！
是余之罪也夫！
身毁不用矣。
退而深惟曰： 夫诗书隐约者，欲遂其志之思也。
昔西伯拘羑里，演周易；孔子戹陈蔡，作春秋；屈原放逐，著离骚；左丘失明，厥有国语；孙子膑脚，而论兵法；不韦迁蜀，世传吕览；韩非囚秦，说难、孤愤；诗三百篇，大抵贤圣发愤之所为作也。
此人皆意有所郁结，不得通其道也，故述往事，思来者。
於是卒述陶唐以来，至于麟止，自黄帝始。
维昔黄帝，法天则地，四圣遵序，各成法度；唐尧逊位，虞舜不台；厥美帝功，万世载之。
作五帝本纪第一。
translation: 
So he sighed and said: This is my sin!
This is my sin!
There is no use in mutilating the body.
He stood back and thought deeply: "Poems" and "Books" have subtle meanings and simple words. They are the authors who want to express their aspirations and emotions.
In the past, King Wen of Zhou Dynasty was imprisoned in Youli, and he deduced the "Book of Changes"; Confucius encountered the difficulties of Chen and Cai, and wrote "Spring and Autumn"; Qu Yuan was exiled and wrote "Li Sao"; Zuo Qiuming was blind, so he compiled "Guoyu", and his grandson suffered a leg injury After the death penalty, he discussed the art of war; Lu Buwei was demoted to Shu County, and only "Lü Lan" was spread in the world; Han Fei was imprisoned in the Qin State, and then he wrote "Speaking of Difficulties" and "Lonely Anger"; most of the 300 "Poetry" were written by saints and wise men to express their anger.
These people are depressed and sad in their hearts, and their ideals and ideas cannot be realized, so they recall the past and consider the future.
So I finally made up my mind to record the history from the Tao and Tang Dynasties to the year of Emperor Wu Huolin, starting from the Yellow Emperor.
In the past, the Yellow Emperor took heaven as his law and the earth as his rule. Four sage emperors, Zhuanxu, Diku, Yao and Shun, successively established certain laws and regulations. Yao of Tang gave way to Yushun, who was displeased because he felt that he was not up to his task. The virtues of these emperors have been passed down from generation to generation.
The first author of "The Chronicles of the Five Emperors".


Chunk 12: 
original: 
维禹之功，九州攸同，光唐虞际，德流苗裔；夏桀淫骄，乃放鸣条。
作夏本纪第二。
维契作商，爰及成汤；太甲居桐，德盛阿衡；武丁得说，乃称高宗；帝辛湛湎，诸侯不享。
作殷本纪第三。
维弃作稷，德盛西伯；武王牧野，实抚天下；幽厉昏乱，既丧酆镐；陵迟至赧；洛邑不祀。
作周本纪第四。
维秦之先，伯翳佐禹；穆公思义，悼豪之旅；以人为殉，诗歌黄鸟；昭襄业帝。
作秦本纪第五。
始皇既立，并兼六国，销锋铸鐻，维偃干革，尊号称帝，矜武任力；二世受运，子婴降虏。
作始皇本纪第六。
秦失其道，豪桀并扰；项梁业之，子羽接之；杀庆救赵，诸侯立之；诛婴背怀，天下非之。
作项羽本纪第七。
子羽暴虐，汉行功德；愤发蜀汉，还定三秦；诛籍业帝，天下惟宁，改制易俗。
translation: 
Dayu's achievements in controlling floods were shared by all nine states. When Tang and Yu were glorious, his kindness was passed down to later generations. Xia Jie was debauched and arrogant, so he was exiled to Mingtiao.
The second work of "Xia Ben Ji".
Qi established the Shang Kingdom and spread to Chengtang; Taijia was exiled to Tongdi and reformed, and Aheng's merits flourished; Wuding was called Gaozong only after being assisted by Fu Shuo; Emperor Xin was indifferent and the princes no longer paid tribute.
The third work of "Yin Ben Ji".
Abandoning inventions and planting grains, Xibo Ji prospered during his time; King Wu defeated Zhou in Muye and pacified the people of the world; King You and King Li rebelled and lost Feng and Hao; the royal family declined until King Nan, and Luoyi cut off the worship of the Zhou clan's ancestral temple.
The fourth work of "Zhou Benji".
Boyi, the ancestor of Qin, once assisted Dayu; Duke Mu of Qin thought of his righteousness and mourned the soldiers of Qin who died in the battle of Huo; Duke Mu of Qin was buried alive after his death, and the poem "Yellow Bird" expressed his sorrow; King Zhaoxiang founded the empire.
The fifth author of "Qin Benji".
Qin Shihuang came to the throne, annexed the six countries, destroyed the weapons, and cast them into bells, hoping that the war would stop. He was honored as the emperor, showed off his power, and relied solely on violence. Qin II inherited the fate of the country, and Ziying surrendered and became a prisoner.
The sixth chapter of "The Chronicles of the First Emperor".
The Qin Dynasty lost its royal power, and the heroes rebelled together; Xiang Liang started the great cause of anti-Qin, and Xiang Yu continued it; Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, the champion of Qingzi, and saved Zhao, and the princes supported him; but he killed Ziying and betrayed the Righteous Emperor and Huaiwang, and the whole world blamed him.
The seventh work of "The Chronicles of Xiang Yu".
Xiang Yu was cruel and tyrannical, and the king of Han made meritorious deeds; he was angry at Shu and Han, and led his army to the north to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties; he killed Xiang Yu and established the empire, bringing stability to the world, reforming the system, and changing customs.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
作高祖本纪第八。
惠之早霣，诸吕不台；崇彊禄、产，诸侯谋之；杀隐幽友，大臣洞疑，遂及宗祸。
作吕太后本纪第九。
汉既初兴，继嗣不明，迎王践祚，天下归心；蠲除肉刑，开通关梁，广恩博施，厥称太宗。
作孝文本纪第十。
诸侯骄恣，吴首为乱，京师行诛，七国伏辜，天下翕然，大安殷富。
作孝景本纪第十一。
汉兴五世，隆在建元，外攘夷狄，内脩法度，封禅，改正朔，易服色。
作今上本纪第十二。
维三代尚矣，年纪不可考，盖取之谱牒旧闻，本于兹，於是略推，作三代世表第一。
translation: 
The eighth work of "The Chronicles of the Great Ancestor".
Emperor Hui died early, and Zhu Lu made the people unhappy with his affairs. Empress Lu raised the status of Lu Lu and Lu Chan and strengthened their power, so the princes tried to cut them off. Empress Lu killed King Yin of Zhao and imprisoned King Liu You of Zhao You. The ministers in the court were suspicious and fearful, which finally led to the collapse of the Lu family.
The ninth work of "The Chronicles of Empress Dowager Lu".
When the Han Dynasty was first established, the heir to the throne was unknown after the death of Emperor Hui. The ministers welcomed Liu Heng as the acting king, and the world was convinced. Emperor Wen abolished corporal punishment, opened water and land routes, extended favors, and was named Taizong after his death.
The tenth chapter of "Chronicles of Filial Piety".
The princes and kings were arrogant and unruly. King Wu took the lead in the rebellion, and the court sent troops to attack it. The seven rebel kingdoms successively overturned their crimes, and the world was stable, peaceful and prosperous.
The eleventh edition of "The Chronicles of Xiaojing".
The Han Dynasty was established for the fifth generation, and during the first year of its prosperity and prosperity, the emperor expelled the barbarians from outside, cultivated the laws internally, held Zen ceremonies, revised the calendar, and changed the color of his clothes.
The twelfth chapter of "Jin Shang Ben Ji".
The Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties are so long ago that the specific dates cannot be determined. They are roughly based on old news about genealogies handed down from ancient times. Based on this, we can then make rough inferences and make the first list of the "Three Dynasties Genealogy".


Chunk 14: 
original: 
幽厉之後，周室衰微，诸侯专政，春秋有所不纪；而谱牒经略，五霸更盛衰，欲睹周世相先後之意，作十二诸侯年表第二。
春秋之後，陪臣秉政，彊国相王；以至于秦，卒并诸夏，灭封地，擅其号。
作六国年表第三。
秦既暴虐，楚人发难，项氏遂乱，汉乃扶义征伐；八年之间，天下三嬗，事繁变众，故详著秦楚之际月表第四。
汉兴已来，至于太初百年，诸侯废立分削，谱纪不明，有司靡踵，彊弱之原云以世。
作汉兴已来诸侯年表第五。
维高祖元功，辅臣股肱，剖符而爵，泽流苗裔，忘其昭穆，或杀身陨国。
作高祖功臣侯者年表第六。
惠景之间，维申功臣宗属爵邑，作惠景间侯者年表第七。
北讨彊胡，南诛劲越，征伐夷蛮，武功爰列。
作建元以来侯者年表第八。
诸侯既彊，七国为从，子弟众多，无爵封邑，推恩行义，其埶销弱，德归京师。
作王子侯者年表第九。
国有贤相良将，民之师表也。
维见汉兴以来将相名臣年表，贤者记其治，不贤者彰其事。
作汉兴以来将相名臣年表第十。
维三代之礼，所损益各殊务，然要以近性情，通王道，故礼因人质为之节文，略协古今之变。作礼书第一。
translation: 
After King You and King Li, the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and the princes were in charge of their own affairs. Some of them were not recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals. However, the genealogy only records the summary, and the five hegemons alternated their rise and fall. In order to examine the sequential relationship between the various princes and states in the Zhou Dynasty, the second part of the "Chronology of the Twelve Princes" was compiled.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, accompanying ministers were in power, and the kings of powerful countries competed to become kings. When the King of Qin won the government, he finally annexed all countries, eradicated fiefdoms, and enjoyed the exclusive title.
The third of the "Chronology of the Six Kingdoms".
The Emperor of Qin was tyrannical, Chen Sheng of Chu launched an attack, and the Xiang family rebelled against Qin, so the King of Han went on a righteous expedition. In eight years, the world changed its owner three times, and there were many events, so the fourth chapter of "Moon Table between Qin and Chu" was written in detail.
From the founding of the Han Dynasty until the first hundred years of the Taichu period, the genealogical records of the abolition and division of princes were unclear, and the officials in charge could not continue to record them. However, the reasons for their strength and weakness can be inferred based on their lineage.
The fifth in the "Chronology of the Princes since the rise of Han Dynasty".
When Emperor Gaozu first conquered the world, the heroes who assisted him in starting a business were all given the title of nobility, and their blessings were passed on to their descendants. Some of them forgot about their close relatives and could not distinguish their seniority, and some even went so far as to kill the country.
The sixth chapter of the "Chronology of the Great Ancestor's Meritorious Officials".
During the reigns of Emperor Hui and Emperor Jing, the clan titles and food towns of the meritorious officials were added. The seventh of the "Chronology of Hui Jingjian Hou".
They attacked the powerful Xiongnu from the north, the powerful Yue people from the south, and conquered barbarians from all directions. Many people were made marquises by their martial arts.
The eighth of the "Chronology of the Marquises since the Founding of the Yuan Dynasty".
The vassal states became increasingly powerful, and the seven kingdoms including Wu and Chu were connected from the north to the south. There were many princes, princes, and brothers, and no title or title. The imperial court ordered the implementation of enyi and enfeoffed the princes, princes, and brothers as marquises. As a result, the power of the kingdom was gradually weakened, but the virtues and righteousness were attributed to the court.
The ninth work of "Chronology of Princes and Marquises".
The country's virtuous ministers and generals are role models for the people.
I have seen the chronology of famous generals, prime ministers and ministers since the rise of the Han Dynasty. For virtuous people, their achievements in governance are recorded, while for those who are not virtuous, their bad deeds are noted.
The tenth in the "Chronological List of Generals, Prime Ministers and Famous Officials since the rise of the Han Dynasty".
The rituals of the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties each had their own additions and subtractions, but in general, the main point was to make the rituals close to people's temperament and connect with the royal way. Therefore, the rituals were made according to people's simple nature, minus the red tape, and generally conformed to the changes of ancient and modern times. He was the first to write "Book of Rites".


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乐者，所以移风易俗也。
自雅颂声兴，则已好郑卫之音，郑卫之音所从来久矣。
人情之所感，远俗则怀。
比乐书以述来古，作乐书第二。
非兵不彊，非德不昌，黄帝、汤、武以兴，桀、纣、二世以崩，可不慎欤？
司马法所从来尚矣，太公、孙、吴、王子能绍而明之，切近世，极人变。
作律书第三。
律居阴而治阳，历居阳而治阴，律历更相治，间不容翲忽。
五家之文怫异，维太初之元论。作历书第四。
星气之书，多杂禨祥，不经；推其文，考其应，不殊。
比集论其行事，验于轨度以次，作天官书第五。
受命而王，封禅之符罕用，用则万灵罔不禋祀。
追本诸神名山大川礼，作封禅书第六。
translation: 
Music is used to change customs.
Since the rise of the sounds of "Ya" and "Song", people have been fond of the sounds of Zheng and Wei. The sounds of Zheng and Wei have been around for a long time.
If you are moved by human affection, people from distant lands will come to you.
Imitating the existing "Music Book" to discuss the rise and fall of music since ancient times, this is the second "Music Book".
A country will not be strong without an army, and a country will not be prosperous without a virtuous government. The Yellow Emperor, Shang Tang, and King Wu of Zhou prospered because of this, and Xia Jie, Shang Zhou, and Qin II died because of ignorance. How can we not be cautious about this?
"Sima Law" has been around for a long time. Jiang Taigong, Sun Wu, Wu Qi, and Wang Zichenfu were able to inherit and create something. It is in line with the modern situation and takes full advantage of changes in human affairs.
The third volume of the Book of Laws.
The rhythm of music is in the yin and governs the yang, the calendar is in the yang and governs the yin, the rhythm and the calendar govern each other alternately, and no mistakes are allowed in the process.
The original almanacs of the five schools were contradictory and different from each other, and only the calendar discussed in the first year of Taichu was correct. The fourth work of "Almanac".
The Book of Star Qi contains a lot of content about praying for blessings, removing disasters, and foretelling good or bad luck, which is absurd and unreasonable. Looking at its diction and its fulfillment, there is nothing special about it.
When Emperor Wu convened a special person to discuss the matter, he verified it with the track in turn. The fifth one in the Book of Heavenly Officials.
Accepting the destiny and becoming an emperor, such auspicious events as conferring Zen status cannot be performed easily. If it is performed, all the gods will not be exempted from sacrifices.
Retracing the rituals of worshiping the gods of famous mountains and rivers, this is the sixth book of "Book of Fengchan".


Chunk 16: 
original: 
维禹浚川，九州攸宁；爰及宣防，决渎通沟。
作河渠书第七。
维币之行，以通农商；其极则玩巧，并兼兹殖，争於机利，去本趋末。
作平准书以观事变，第八。
太伯避历，江蛮是適；文武攸兴，古公王迹。
阖庐弑僚，宾服荆楚；夫差克齐，子胥鸱夷；信嚭亲越，吴国既灭。
嘉伯之让，作吴世家第一。
申、吕肖矣，尚父侧微，卒归西伯，文武是师；功冠群公，缪权于幽；番番黄发，爰飨营丘。
不背柯盟，桓公以昌，九合诸侯，霸功显彰。
田阚争宠，姜姓解亡。
translation: 
Dayu dredged the rivers and brought peace to Jiuchuan; when the Xuanfang Palace was built, the rivers and ditches were dredged.
The seventh book of "Hequ Shu".
The circulation of coins is to communicate with farmers and businesses; its drawbacks have developed to the point of playing tricks, merging and making money, competing for speculation and profit, abandoning the good and chasing the weak, and doing business in agriculture.
Compose "Pingzhunshu" to examine the changes and development of things, this is the eighth.
In order to let Ji Li succeed to the throne, Tai Bo fled to the barbarian land in the south of the Yangtze River, so that King Wen and King Wu were able to revitalize the Zhou state and develop the royal industry of Gu Gong Danfu.
Helu killed King Liao of Wu, seized the throne, and surrendered to the state of Chu; Fucha defeated the state of Qi and forced Wu Zixu to be killed and put his body in a leather bag; he believed Bo Pe's words and was friendly to the Yue state, but was eventually destroyed by the Yue state.
In order to praise the virtue of Taibo's abdication, he wrote "Wu Family" No. 1.
The kingdoms of Shen and Lu were in decline, and Shang's father suffered a lot of hardships. He finally surrendered to Xibo and became the tutor of King Wen and King Wu. His merits were the first among the ministers, and he was good at plotting strategies in secret. His hair was gray, he was granted the title of Qi, he built the capital Yingqiu, and became the founder of Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi did not break the alliance he had made with Lu in Ke, and his career prospered. He joined the princes many times and achieved great success.
Tian Heng and Kan Zhi competed for favor, and the Qi Kingdom surnamed Jiang collapsed and perished.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
嘉父之谋，作齐太公世家第二。
依之违之，周公绥之；愤发文德，天下和之；辅翼成王，诸侯宗周。
隐桓之际，是独何哉？
三桓争彊，鲁乃不昌。
嘉旦金縢，作周公世家第三。
武王克纣，天下未协而崩。
成王既幼，管蔡疑之，淮夷叛之，於是召公率德，安集王室，以宁东土。
燕之禅，乃成祸乱。
嘉甘棠之诗，作燕世家第四。
管蔡相武庚，将宁旧商；及旦摄政，二叔不飨；杀鲜放度，周公为盟；大任十子，周以宗彊。
嘉仲悔过，作管蔡世家第五。
王後不绝，舜禹是说；维德休明，苗裔蒙烈。
百世享祀，爰周陈杞，楚实灭之。
translation: 
In order to praise Shangfu's grand plan, he wrote the second chapter of "The Family of Qi Taigong".
Regardless of whether the princes and subordinates were obedient or disobedient to Zhou, Duke Zhou appeased them; he worked hard to promote virtue, and the world responded with easy-going responses; he assisted and protected King Cheng, and the princes regarded the emperor of Zhou as the suzerain of the world.
On the occasion of Duke Yin and Duke Huan, unethical and indecent acts frequently occurred. Why is this?
Just because the three Huan states were competing for power, the fate of the Lu State was not prosperous.
Praising Zhou Gongdan's "Jin Teng" policy essay, he wrote the third piece of "Zhou Gong's Family".
King Wu defeated Shang Zhou, but he died before the world could reconcile.
When King Cheng was young, Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected that Duke Zhou had usurped the throne, and Huaiyi also rebelled. Therefore, Duke Zhao took the lead in supporting Duke Zhou with his high virtue, which unified and stabilized the royal family, ensured the victory of Duke Zhou's Eastern Expedition, and brought peace to the east.
It was the Zen position of King Yan that caused the chaos.
He admired the poem "Gantang" and wrote the fourth poem "Yan Shijia".
Guan Cai's second uncle assisted Wu Geng in an attempt to stabilize the old territory of the Shang Dynasty. Once Zhou Gong became regent, his second uncle refused to accept the offer, so Zhou Gong killed Guan Shuxian and exiled Cai Shudu.
In recognition of Cai Zhong's repentance, he wrote the fifth chapter of "Guan Cai Family".
The descendants of the previous kings continued uninterruptedly, and Shun and Yu were happy about this; their merits were beautiful and clear, and future generations could inherit their achievements.
They enjoyed sacrifices for hundreds of generations. In the Zhou Dynasty, they were granted the title of Chen State and Qi State, and were later destroyed by Chu State.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
齐田既起，舜何人哉？
作陈杞世家第六。
收殷馀民，叔封始邑，申以商乱，酒材是告，及朔之生，卫顷不宁；南子恶蒯聩，子父易名。
周德卑微，战国既彊，卫以小弱，角独後亡。喜彼康诰，作卫世家第七。
嗟箕子乎！
嗟箕子乎！
正言不用，乃反为奴。
武庚既死，周封微子。
襄公伤於泓，君子孰称。
景公谦德，荧惑退行。
剔成暴虐，宋乃灭亡。
喜微子问太师，作宋世家第八。
武王既崩，叔虞邑唐。
君子讥名，卒灭武公。
骊姬之爱，乱者五世；重耳不得意，乃能成霸。
六卿专权，晋国以秏。
translation: 
The Qitian clan made it rise again. What a great man Shun was!
The sixth work of "Chen Qi Family".
After accepting the remnants of the Yin Dynasty, Uncle Kang began to enfeoff the city. Zhou Gong used the lessons of the Shang Dynasty to destroy the country and wrote "Jiu Gao", "Zicai" and other words to warn him. When Wei Gongzi Shuo was born, the Wei state began to be in danger; Nanzi hated Kuai Kui, causing the status of son and father to be reversed.
The rule of the Zhou Dynasty was declining day by day, and the vassal states were becoming stronger and stronger. Because the Wei state was weak, the kings of the states fell later. Praising "Kang Gao", he wrote "Wei Shijia" seventh.
What a shame, Jizi!
What a shame, Jizi!
The correct opinions were not adopted, but instead they were persecuted and pretended to be crazy and became slaves.
After Wu Geng's death, the Zhou Dynasty granted the title of Wei Zi to the Song Dynasty.
Duke Xianggang of the Song Dynasty was injured in the Battle of Hongshui. Which gentleman would praise him?
Jinggong had the virtue of being humble and caring for the people, but Yinghuo retreated from it.
He was criticized for being tyrannical and immoral, and the Song Dynasty perished as a result.
He praised Weizi and asked the imperial master for advice, and wrote the eighth chapter of "The Family of the Song Dynasty".
After the death of King Wu, Shuyu was granted the title of governor in the Tang Dynasty.
The gentleman ridiculed Duke Mu of Jin for naming his son, and Duke Wu finally destroyed him and replaced him.
Duke Xian doted on Li Ji, which caused chaos in the fifth generation; Chong'er failed to achieve his ambition, but he was able to dominate the princes.
The Six Ministers took over the power, and the Jin Kingdom declined.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
嘉文公锡珪鬯，作晋世家第九。
重黎业之，吴回接之；殷之季世，粥子牒之。
周用熊绎，熊渠是续。
庄王之贤，乃复国陈；既赦郑伯，班师华元。
怀王客死，兰咎屈原；好谀信谗，楚并於秦。
嘉庄王之义，作楚世家第十。
少康之子，实宾南海，文身断发，鼋鳝与处，既守封禺，奉禹之祀。
句践困彼，乃用种、蠡。
嘉句践夷蛮能脩其德，灭彊吴以尊周室，作越王句践世家第十一。
桓公之东，太史是庸。
及侵周禾，王人是议。
祭仲要盟，郑久不昌。
子产之仁，绍世称贤。
三晋侵伐，郑纳於韩。
嘉厉公纳惠王，作郑世家第十二。
维骥騄耳，乃章造父。
translation: 
Praising Wen Gong for winning the title of emperor, he wrote the ninth chapter of "Jin Family".
Chongli started his business and was succeeded by the State of Wu; at the end of the Yin Dynasty, there are bamboo slips recording that Huanzi was the founder of the State of Chu.
King Zhou Cheng appointed Xiong Yi as the son of Chu, and Xiong Qu inherited the legacy of his ancestors.
The king of Chuzhuang was wise and restored the state of Chen. He pardoned Uncle Zheng's crime, and because of Hua Yuan's words, he sent his troops back to China.
When King Huai's guest died in Qin, Zilan blamed Qu Yuan. The king of Chu was flattered and believed in slander, and was finally annexed by Qin.
Praising King Zhuang's virtue and righteousness, he wrote the tenth chapter of "The Family of Chu".
Shaokang's son abandoned the South China Sea, got tattoos and cut off his hair, lived with turtles, and stayed at Fengshan Yushan to serve the sacrifices of Dayu.
Gou Jian was humiliated by Fu Chai, so he trusted Wen Zhong and Fan Li.
Praising Gou Jian for being a barbarian and being able to cultivate his virtues, destroying the powerful Wu State in order to respect the Zhou Dynasty, he wrote "The Family of King Gou Jian of Yue" No. 11.
Duke Huan moved eastward, trusting Taishi's words.
Duke Zhuang sent troops to invade Zhou territory and harvest crops, which was criticized by the Zhou king's subjects.
Ji Zhong was coerced by the Song Dynasty to form an alliance, and Zheng Guo could not prosper for a long time.
Zichan's benevolent government was praised by later generations as wise.
The three Jin Dynasties invaded and conquered, and Zheng was eventually annexed by Han.
Praising Duke Li of Zheng for accepting King Hui of Zhou, he wrote the twelfth chapter of "The Family of Zheng".
The handsome horse made Zaofu famous.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
赵夙事献，衰续厥绪。佐文尊王，卒为晋辅。
襄子困辱，乃禽智伯。
主父生缚，饿死探爵。
王迁辟淫，良将是斥。
嘉鞅讨周乱，作赵世家第十三。
毕万爵魏，卜人知之。
及绛戮干，戎翟和之。
文侯慕义，子夏师之。
惠王自矜，齐秦攻之。
既疑信陵，诸侯罢之。
卒亡大梁，王假厮之。
嘉武佐晋文申霸道，作魏世家第十四。
韩厥阴德，赵武攸兴。
绍绝立废，晋人宗之。
昭侯显列，申子庸之。
疑非不信，秦人袭之。
嘉厥辅晋匡周天子之赋，作韩世家第十五。
完子避难，適齐为援，阴施五世，齐人歌之。
成子得政，田和为侯。
王建动心，乃迁于共。
嘉威、宣能拨浊世而独宗周，作田敬仲完世家第十六。
周室既衰，诸侯恣行。
translation: 
Zhao Su served Duke Xian of Jin, and Zhao Shui inherited his career, assisted Duke Wen of Jin in serving the king, and finally became an auxiliary minister of Jin.
Zhao Xiangzi was trapped and humiliated, but he captured Zhibo.
The master's father was besieged by his ministers, and he ate birds to satisfy his hunger and starved to death.
Zhao Wangqian became deviant and promiscuous, denounced and persecuted good generals.
In recognition of Zhao Yangzi's efforts to put an end to the rebellion in the Zhou royal family, he wrote the thirteenth chapter of "The Zhao Family".
Bi Wan was granted a title in Wei, and the fortune teller predicted that his descendants would be prosperous.
When Wei Jiang humiliated Yang Qian, he was guilty of fulfilling his mission of making peace with Rong Zhai.
Marquis Wen admired benevolence and righteousness and worshiped Zixia as his teacher.
King Hui was arrogant and arrogant, and was attacked by Qi and Qin.
King Anli was suspicious of Lord Xinling, so the princes alienated Wei.
Wei was finally destroyed by Qin, and the king of Wei pretended to be a servant.
Praising Wu Zi of Wei and assisting Duke Wen of Jin in establishing his hegemony, he wrote the fourteenth chapter of "The Family of Wei".
Han Que was good at accumulating virtue, and Zhao Wucai was able to rise.
He revived those who destroyed the country and established the abandoned ones. The people of Jin respected him.
Han Zhaohou had a prominent position among the princes, and he used Shen Buhai in a high position.
The king of Han suspected Han Fei and did not trust him, so Qin attacked Han.
Appreciating Han Jue's assistance to the king of Jin and correcting the military legacy of the Zhou royal family, he wrote the fifteenth chapter of "The Family of Han".
Wanzi took refuge and went to Qi to ask for help. Tian secretly showed kindness to the people for five generations, and the people of Qi praised him.
Tian Chengzi seized power in Qi State, and Tian He became a prince.
King Jian of Qi was persuaded by the plan to move Qi to the Communist Party.
Praising King Wei of Qi and King Xuan of Qi for being able to break through the filthy world and respect the Emperor of Zhou alone, he wrote the sixteenth chapter of "Tian Jingzhong Wan Shi Family".
The Zhou royal family has declined, and the princes are doing whatever they want.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
仲尼悼礼废乐崩，追脩经术，以达王道，匡乱世反之於正，见其文辞，为天下制仪法，垂六之统纪於後世。
作孔子世家第十七。
桀、纣失其道而汤、武作，周失其道而春秋作。
秦失其政，而陈涉发迹，诸侯作难，风起云蒸，卒亡秦族。
天下之端，自涉发难。
作陈涉世家第十八。
成皋之台，薄氏始基。
诎意適代，厥崇诸窦。
栗姬偩贵，王氏乃遂。
陈后太骄，卒尊子夫。
嘉夫德若斯，作外戚世家十九。
汉既谲谋，禽信於陈；越荆剽轻，乃封弟交为楚王，爰都彭城，以彊淮泗，为汉宗籓。
戊溺於邪，礼复绍之。
嘉游辅祖，作楚元王世家二十。
translation: 
Confucius was saddened by the collapse of rituals and music, so he pursued the study of scriptures in order to rebuild the king's way, rectify the troubled times, and return it to the right path. Based on his writings, he formulated etiquette and laws for the world. He left the "Six Arts" outline for future generations.
The seventeenth chapter of "The Family of Confucius".
Jie and Zhou lost their royal power and Tang and Wu rose up. Zhou lost his royal power and the book "Spring and Autumn" came out.
Qin lost its way of governing, Chen She launched an uprising against Qin, and the princes rebelled one after another, and the Qin Dynasty was finally destroyed.
The end of the Qin Dynasty began when Chen She launched an attack.
The eighteenth chapter of "Chen She Family".
Chenggaotai is the birthplace of the Bo family.
Empress Dowager Dou was forced to go to Dai State, which made the Dou family rich and powerful.
Li Ji relied on her distinguished status to be arrogant, and the Wang family was able to reach the throne.
Empress Chen was too delicate, and finally her husband was respected and favored.
Praising Wei Zifu for his good virtues, he wrote "A Family of Foreign Relatives" No. 19.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty devised a trick to capture Han Xin in Chen. The people of Yue and Chu were brave and agile, so he made his younger brother Liu Jiao the king of Chu and established his capital in Pengcheng to strengthen the rule of the Huai and Si regions and become a vassal state of the Han Dynasty.
King Chu Liu Wu indulged in evil and conspired to rebel, and Liu Li was named King of Chu to inherit the king's business.
He praised Liu Jiao for assisting Emperor Gaozu and wrote the twentieth chapter of "The Family of the Kings of Chu and Yuan".


Chunk 22: 
original: 
维祖师旅，刘贾是与；为布所袭，丧其荆、吴。
营陵激吕，乃王琅邪；怵午信齐，往而不归，遂西入关，遭立孝文，获复王燕。
天下未集，贾、泽以族，为汉籓辅。
作荆燕世家第二十一。
天下已平，亲属既寡；悼惠先壮，实镇东土。
哀王擅兴，发怒诸吕，驷钧暴戾，京师弗许。
厉之内淫，祸成主父。
嘉肥股肱，作齐悼惠王世家第二十二。
楚人围我荥阳，相守三年；萧何填抚山西，推计踵兵，给粮食不绝，使百姓爱汉，不乐为楚。
作萧相国世家第二十三。
与信定魏，破赵拔齐，遂弱楚人。
续何相国，不变不革，黎庶攸宁。
嘉参不伐功矜能，作曹相国世家第二十四。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu led his army against Qin, and Liu Jia joined him. Later, he was attacked by Yingbu and lost his land of Jing and Wu.
The Marquis of Yingling persuaded Empress Lu to move her, and was granted the title of King of Langya; Zhu Wu deceived him into trusting the King of Qi, and went to Qi without being able to return.
When the world was not stable, Liu Jia and Liu Ze became their vassals as brothers of the same clan as the great ancestor.
The twenty-first chapter of "The Jingyan Family".
After the world was peaceful, there were not many relatives of Emperor Gaozu. Qi mourned King Hui as an adult and guarded the eastern territory.
King Ai of Qi sent troops without authorization because he was angry at Zhu Lu's actions; Si Jun was rude and surly, and the court was not allowed to make him emperor.
There was internal strife among King Li's relatives, and the murder was caused by the master's father Yan.
In recognition of Liu Fei, the king of mourning Hui, for assisting the emperor, he wrote the twenty-second chapter of "Qi Mourning of the Family of King Hui Hui".
The overlord of Chu besieged the Han Dynasty in Xingyang and maintained a stalemate for three years; Xiao He controlled Shanxi, calculated the population and transported soldiers, and the food supply was constant, which made the people love the king of Han and were unwilling to contribute to the king of Chu.
The 23rd chapter of "Xiao Xiangguo's Family".
Together with Han Xin, he pacified Wei, defeated Zhao, captured Qi, and weakened the power of the overlord of Chu.
After Xiao He became the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, nothing was changed and the people were peaceful.
Praising Cao Shen for not boasting about his merits and talents, he wrote "Cao Xiangguo Family" twenty-fourth.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
运筹帷幄之中，制胜於无形，子房计谋其事，无知名，无勇功，图难於易，为大於细。作留侯世家第二十五。
六奇既用，诸侯宾从於汉；吕氏之事，平为本谋，终安宗庙，定社稷。
作陈丞相世家第二十六。
诸吕为从，谋弱京师，而勃反经合於权；吴楚之兵，亚夫驻於昌邑，以戹齐赵，而出委以梁。
作绛侯世家第二十七。
七国叛逆，蕃屏京师，唯梁为扞；偩爱矜功，几获于祸。
嘉其能距吴楚，作梁孝王世家第二十八。
五宗既王，亲属洽和，诸侯大小为籓，爰得其宜，僭拟之事稍衰贬矣。
作五宗世家第二十九。
三子之王，文辞可观。
作三王世家第三十。
末世争利，维彼奔义；让国饿死，天下称之。
translation: 
Planning and planning behind the curtains, defeating the enemy invisibly, and planning things to defeat the enemy, have no name for cleverness, no bravery, start from easy places to solve problems, start from small places to achieve great things. The twenty-fifth chapter of "The Liuhou Family".
All six strange strategies were adopted by Gaozu, and the princes surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Chen Ping was the main conspirator to eliminate the Lu, and finally stabilized the royal family and the country.
The twenty-sixth chapter of "The Family of Prime Minister Chen".
Zhu Lu colluded and conspired to weaken the royal family. On the issue of exterminating Zhu Lu, Zhou Bo deviated from the routine and followed the contingency approach. The seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled. Zhou Yafu stationed troops in Changyi to restrain the Qi and Zhao armies, and gave up the Liang King who asked for help.
The twenty-seventh chapter of "Jianghou Family".
The seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, and among the kings with the same surname as Emperor Fanping, only King Liang Xiao resisted the enemy. However, he relied on his favor and boasted about his previous achievements, and was almost killed.
In recognition of his ability to resist the Wu and Chu rebels, he wrote "The Family of King Xiao of Liang" twenty-eighth.
After the five sects were crowned kings, the emperor's relatives were harmonious and harmonious, and the princes, big or small, all served as vassals, each having his own suitability. The number of things that abdicated the throne and imposed on the emperor gradually decreased.
The twenty-ninth chapter of "Five Families".
The three princes of the current emperor have been crowned kings, and their policies and writings are elegant and impressive.
The 30th chapter of "Family of Three Kings".
In the last days, they fought for power and gain, but brothers Boyi and Shuqi tended to be benevolent and righteous. In order to gain the throne, they both starved to death, and the world praised their virtues.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
作伯夷列传第一。
晏子俭矣，夷吾则奢；齐桓以霸，景公以治。
作管晏列传第二。
李耳无为自化，清净自正；韩非揣事情，循埶理。
作老子韩非列传第三。
自古王者而有司马法，穰苴能申明之。
作司马穰苴列传第四。
非信廉仁勇不能传兵论剑，与道同符，内可以治身，外可以应变，君子比德焉。
作孙子吴起列传第五。
维建遇谗，爰及子奢，尚既匡父，伍员奔吴。
作伍子胥列传第六。
孔氏述文，弟子兴业，咸为师傅，崇仁厉义。
作仲尼弟子列传第七。
鞅去卫適秦，能明其术，彊霸孝公，後世遵其法。
作商君列传第八。
translation: 
He ranked first in the "Biography of Boyi Shuqi".
Yanzi was frugal, while Guan Zhong was extravagant: Duke Huan of Qi was able to dominate because he was assisted by Guan Zhong, and Duke Jinggong of Qi was able to rule the country because he was assisted by Yanzi.
The second one in "The Biography of Guan Yan".
Li Er advocated governance by doing nothing, so that the people would become good; being quiet and having few desires would help the people return to righteousness. Han Fei speculates on the actual situation of things and follows the trends and principles of their development.
The third author of "The Biography of Laozi and Han Fei".
Since ancient times, emperors have had "Sima Law", and Rang Ju can elaborate on it.
The fourth author of "The Biography of Sima Ranju".
Without faith, integrity, benevolence, and courage, one cannot teach the art of war and swordsmanship. The art of war and swordsmanship are in line with Tao. They can cultivate one's character internally and adapt externally. A gentleman attaches great importance to this and regards it as virtue.
The fifth author of "The Biography of Sun Tzu Wu Qi".
Prince Jian was slandered, which harmed Wu She. Wu Shang rescued his father, and Wu members fled to Wu.
The sixth author of "The Biography of Wu Zixu".
Confucius preached virtues, and his disciples revitalized their careers and became masters, teaching people to respect benevolence and practice righteousness.
The seventh volume of "Biographies of Zhongni's Disciples".
Shang Yang left the Wei and came to Qin, where he was able to explain and implement his methods of governing the country, making Qin Xiaogong strong and dominant, and future generations followed his laws.
The eighth book of "Biographies of Shang Jun".


Chunk 25: 
original: 
天下患衡秦毋餍，而苏子能存诸侯，约从以抑贪彊。
作苏秦列传第九。
六国既从亲，而张仪能明其说，复散解诸侯。
作张仪列传第十。
秦所以东攘雄诸侯，樗里、甘茂之策。
作樗里甘茂列传第十一。
苞河山，围大梁，使诸侯敛手而事秦者，魏厓之功。
作穰侯列传第十二。
南拔鄢郢，北摧长平，遂围邯郸，武安为率；破荆灭赵，王翦之计。
作白起王翦列传第十三。
猎儒墨之遗文，明礼义之统纪，绝惠王利端，列往世兴衰。
作孟子荀卿列传第十四。
好客喜士，士归于薛，为齐扞楚魏。
作孟尝君列传第十五。
争冯亭以权，如楚以救邯郸之围，使其君复称於诸侯。
作平原君虞卿列传第十六。
能以富贵下贫贱，贤能诎於不肖，唯信陵君为能行之。
作魏公子列传第十七。
以身徇君，遂脱彊秦，使驰说之士南乡走楚者，黄歇之义。
作春申君列传第十八
translation: 
The world is worried that even Heng Qin will be greedy. Su Qin can preserve the interests of the princes and agrees to join forces to curb Qin's greed and tyranny.
The ninth book of "Biography of Su Qin".
The six kingdoms were close to each other, and Zhang Yi understood the alliance's proposition, so he was able to confront each other tit for tat, causing the united princes to disperse and collapse again.
The tenth author of "The Biography of Zhang Yi".
The reason why Qin State was able to invade eastward and dominate the princes was because of the good strategy of Qili and Ganmao.
The eleventh chapter of "Biographies of Qili Ganmao".
It was Wei Ran's contribution to sweeping the rivers and mountains, besieging the beams, and making the princes surrender to serve Qin.
The twelfth chapter of "The Biography of Marquis Rang".
To capture Yanying from the south, destroy the Changping garrison from the north, and then besiege Handan, the capital of Zhao, with Lord Wu'an as the main general; it was Wang Jian's plan to defeat Chu and destroy Zhao.
The thirteenth author of "The Biography of Bai Qi Wang Jian".
He dabbled in the writings of Confucianism and Mohism, clarified the rules of etiquette, eradicated King Hui of Liang's pursuit of profit, and stated the rise and fall of the past.
The fourteenth chapter of "The Biography of Mencius and Xunqing".
He likes retainers and scholars, and the scholars will join Duke Xue and defend Qi against Chu and Wei.
The fifteenth chapter of "The Biography of Mengchangjun".
Out of contingency, he won the land offered by Feng Ting to the party. In order to relieve the siege of Handan, he personally drove Chu to rescue Zhao, so that the monarch could once again dominate the princes.
The sixteenth chapter of "The Biography of Pingyuan Jun Yu Qing".
Only Lord Xinling can do this.
The seventeenth chapter of "The Biography of Mr. Wei".
He sacrificed his life to save his master and finally escaped from the powerful Qin Dynasty, causing the lobbyists to go south to the Chu State. This was due to Huang Xie's loyalty.
The eighteenth chapter of "The Biography of Chun Shenjun".


Chunk 26: 
original: 
能忍卼於魏齐，而信威於彊秦，推贤让位，二子有之。
作范睢蔡泽列传第十九。
率行其谋，连五国兵，为弱燕报彊齐之雠，雪其先君之耻。
作乐毅列传第二十。
能信意彊秦，而屈体廉子，用徇其君，俱重於诸侯。
作廉颇蔺相如列传第二十一。
湣王既失临淄而奔莒，唯田单用即墨破走骑劫，遂存齐社稷。
作田单列传第二十二。
能设诡说解患於围城，轻爵禄，乐肆志。
作鲁仲连邹阳列传第二十三。
作辞以讽谏，连类以争义，离骚有之。
作屈原贾生列传第二十四。
结子楚亲，使诸侯之士斐然争入事秦。
作吕不韦列传第二十五。
曹子匕首，鲁获其田，齐明其信；豫让义不为二心。
作刺客列传第二十六。
translation: 
Being able to tolerate humiliation at the hands of Wei and Qi, yet displaying prestige at the powerful Qin, and recommending virtuous people to give them positions of power, Fan Sui and Cai Ze both had such virtues.
The nineteenth author of "The Biography of Fan Sui and Cai Ze".
As a general, he used his strategies to unite the armies of the five countries, avenge the weak Yan for the invasion of the strong Qi, and wash away the shame of the ancestors of the Yan Kingdom.
The twentieth chapter of "The Biography of Le Yi".
He was able to express his opinions to the powerful Qin court, and he was also tolerant and courteous to the honest and honest, so as to be loyal to his king, and the reputation of the general and prime minister was more important than that of the princes.
The twenty-first chapter of "The Biography of Lian Po and Lin Xiangru".
King Min of Qi fled to Juyi after losing Linzi. Only Tian Dan relied on Jimo to defeat the enemy and drive away the robbers, and was able to save the country of Qi.
The 22nd biography of Tian Dan.
He can use clever words to relieve the siege of the city. He despises his title and wealth, but is happy to fulfill his ambitions and interests.
The twenty-third chapter of "The Biography of Lu Zhonglian and Zou Yang".
Writing poems and articles for satire and using analogies to express justice, "Li Sao" has such characteristics.
The twenty-fourth chapter of "The Biography of Qu Yuan and Jia Sheng" was written.
Friendship with Zi Chu caused scholars from various vassal states to rush to join Qin and serve Qin.
The twenty-fifth "Biography of Lu Buwei" was written.
Cao Mo relied on the dagger to regain the lost land of Lu, and also made Qi Jun trust the princes; Yu Rang kept righteousness and was loyal to his king without second thoughts.
The twenty-sixth chapter of "Biographies of Assassins".


Chunk 27: 
original: 
能明其画，因时推秦，遂得意於海内，斯为谋首。
作李斯列传第二十七。
为秦开地益众，北靡匈奴，据河为塞，因山为固，建榆中。
作蒙恬列传第二十八。
填赵塞常山以广河内，弱楚权，明汉王之信於天下。
作张耳陈馀列传第二十九。
收西河、上党之兵，从至彭城；越之侵掠梁地以苦项羽。
作魏豹彭越列传第三十。
以淮南叛楚归汉，汉用得大司马殷，卒破子羽于垓下。
作黥布列传第三十一。
楚人迫我京索，而信拔魏赵，定燕齐，使汉三分天下有其二，以灭项籍。
作淮阴侯列传第三十二。
楚汉相距巩洛，而韩信为填颍川，卢绾绝籍粮饷。
作韩信卢绾列传第三十三。
诸侯畔项王，唯齐连子羽城阳，汉得以间遂入彭城。
作田儋列传第三十四。
攻城野战，获功归报，哙、商有力焉，非独鞭策，又与之脱难。
作樊郦列传第三十五。
translation: 
Being able to clarify his own strategy, follow the current situation and respect Qin, and finally made Qin succeed in the country, and Li Si was the leader.
The twenty-seventh biography of Li Si.
He opened up territory for Qin, gathered people, defeated the Xiongnu in the north, built a fortress based on the Yellow River, and built Yuzhong based on the mountains.
The twenty-eighth of the Biography of Meng Tian.
He pacified Zhao's fortress Changshan, expanded Hanoi, weakened the power of the overlord of Western Chu, and demonstrated the loyalty of the King of Han to the world.
The twenty-ninth chapter of "Biographies of Zhang Er and Chen Yu".
Gathering troops from Xihe and Shangdang, he followed Gaozu as far as Pengcheng; Peng Yue invaded and plundered Liang to trouble Xiang Yu.
The 30th chapter of "The Biography of Wei Bao and Peng Yue".
Yingbu rebelled against Chu and returned to Han with the land of Huainan. Through him, the king of Han obtained Chu's great commander Zhou Yin, and finally defeated Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
The thirty-first chapter of "The Biography of Ting Bu".
The Chu army trapped the Han army in Jing and Suo, Han Xin conquered Wei and Zhao, and pacified Yan and Qi, giving Han two of the three-thirds of the world and laying the foundation for the elimination of Xiang Yu.
The 32nd biography of the Marquis of Huaiyin.
The Chu and Han stalemates were at Gong and Luo, Han Xin guarded Yingchuan for the Han, and Lu Wan cut off the food and pay for Xiang Yu's army.
The thirty-third chapter of "The Biography of Han Xin and Lu Wan".
The princes rebelled against King Xiang, but King Qi was the only one to contain Xiang Yu in Chengyang, allowing King Han to seize the opportunity to invade Pengcheng.
He wrote the thirty-fourth biography of Tian Dan.
In attacking cities and fighting in the wilderness, Fan Kuai and Li Shang were the generals who contributed the most. They not only obeyed the King of Han's orders at any time, but also often worked with the King of Han to get out of danger.
The thirty-fifth "Biography of Fan Li" was written.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
汉既初定，文理未明，苍为主计，整齐度量，序律历。
作张丞相列传第三十六。
结言通使，约怀诸侯；诸侯咸亲，归汉为籓辅。
作郦生陆贾列传第三十七。
欲详知秦楚之事，维周緤常从高祖，平定诸侯。
作傅靳蒯成列传第三十八。
徙彊族，都关中，和约匈奴；明朝廷礼，次宗庙仪法。
作刘敬叔孙通列传第三十九。
能摧刚作柔，卒为列臣；栾公不劫於埶而倍死。
作季布栾布列传第四十。
敢犯颜色以达主义，不顾其身，为国家树长画。
作袁盎晁错列传第四十一。
守法不失大理，言古贤人，增主之明。
作张释之冯唐列传第四十二。
敦厚慈孝，讷於言，敏於行，务在鞠躬，君子长者。
作万石张叔列传第四十三。
守节切直，义足以言廉，行足以厉贤，任重权不可以非理挠。
作田叔列传第四十四。
扁鹊言医，为方者宗，守数精明；後世序，弗能易也，而仓公可谓近之矣。
作扁鹊仓公列传第四十五。
translation: 
In the Han Dynasty, when the world was first established and the order of civil administration was unclear, Zhang Cang served as chief planner, unified weights and measures, and compiled laws and calendars.
The thirty-sixth chapter of "The Biography of Prime Minister Zhang".
He lobbied the general envoys and supported the princes. The princes all attached themselves to the Han Dynasty and returned to the Han Dynasty to become vassal ministers.
The thirty-seventh biography of Li Sheng and Lu Jia.
If you want to know more about the events between Qin and Chu, only Zhou Zhi knows it best, because he often followed Gaozu and participated in military activities to pacify the princes.
The thirty-eighth work of "The Biography of Fu Jin Kuai Cheng".
He moved powerful clans, built their capital in Guanzhong, and made peace with the Xiongnu. He clearly understood the etiquette of the court and formulated the rituals of the ancestral temple.
The thirty-ninth chapter of "Biographies of Liu Jing, Shu and Sun Tong".
Ji Bu was able to change his tyranny into pliability, and finally became a famous official in the Han Dynasty; Duke Luan was not forced by his power to betray the deceased.
The fortieth chapter of "The Biography of Duke Ji Bu Luan".
Dare to violate Yan Qiang's advice, make the Lord's words and deeds consistent with morality, and establish long-term plans for the country regardless of his own safety.
The 41st chapter of "The Biography of Yuan An Chao Cuo".
Uphold the law without losing any importance, speak of ancient sages, and increase the wisdom of the monarch.
The 42nd work of "Zhang Shizhi's Biography of Feng Tang".
Honest, kind and filial, not good at words, quick in action, committed to humility, he can be regarded as a gentleman and an elder.
The 43rd chapter of "The Biography of Uncle Zhang Wanshi".
Observe integrity, be sincere and upright, be honest enough to be called honest, be honest enough to encourage talented people, and hold important positions without being unreasonable to make them surrender.
The forty-fourth chapter of Biography of Uncle Tian.
Bian Que's treatment of medicine was respected by medical families, and his medical skills were exquisite and superb. Later generations followed his method and could not change it, but Cang Gong could be said to be close to Bian Que's method.
The forty-fifth chapter of "The Biography of Bian Quecang Gong" was written.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
维仲之省，厥濞王吴，遭汉初定，以填抚江淮之间。
作吴王濞列传第四十六。
吴楚为乱，宗属唯婴贤而喜士，士乡之，率师抗山东荥阳。
作魏其武安列传第四十七。
智足以应近世之变，宽足用得人。
作韩长孺列传第四十八。
勇於当敌，仁爱士卒，号令不烦，师徒乡之。
作李将军列传第四十九。
自三代以来，匈奴常为中国患害；欲知彊弱之时，设备征讨，作匈奴列传第五十。
直曲塞，广河南，破祁连，通西国，靡北胡。
作卫将军骠骑列传第五十一。
大臣宗室以侈靡相高，唯弘用节衣食为百吏先。
作平津侯列传第五十二。
汉既平中国，而佗能集杨越以保南籓，纳贡职。
作南越列传第五十三。
吴之叛逆，瓯人斩濞，葆守封禺为臣。
translation: 
Liu Zhong was deprived of his title, and his son Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu. This coincided with the beginning of the Han Dynasty, when the Han Dynasty first established the world and allowed him to control the Jianghuai area.
The 46th biography of Wu Wangbi.
Wu and Chu rebelled. Among the clan relatives, only Dou Ying was talented and liked the scholars. The scholars turned to him and led the army to resist the rebels in Xingyang.
The forty-seventh biography of Wei Qiwu Anhou.
Wisdom is enough to cope with the changes of modern times, and generosity is enough to win people.
The forty-eighth biography of Han Changru was written.
He has the courage to fight against the enemy, he is kind to his soldiers, his orders are concise and not annoying, and his soldiers are loyal to him.
Forty-ninth of his "Biography of General Li".
Since the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, the Xiongnu had often been a scourge to the Central Plains. In order to understand the strength and weakness of the times, and to set up defenses and conquer them, we wrote the fiftieth chapter of "Biography of the Xiongnu".
Straighten the twists and turns of the border fortress, expand the land of Henan, break through the Qilian Mountains, open the road to the countries in the Western Region, and defeat the Huns in the north.
The fifty-first chapter of "The Biography of General Wei's Hussars".
The ministers and clan members used extravagance and waste to compete for superiority. Only Gongsun Hong was frugal in food and clothing and set an example for all officials.
He wrote the fifty-second biography of the Marquis of Pingjin.
The Han Dynasty had pacified China, and Zhao Tuo was able to pacify Yang Yue to defend the southern vassal lands and pay tribute and fulfill his duties.
The fifty-third chapter of "Biographies of South Vietnam".
Wu State rebelled, and the people of Dongou killed Liu Bi, defended Fengyu Mountain, and eventually became a Han official.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
作东越列传第五十四。
燕丹散乱辽间，满收其亡民，厥聚海东，以集真籓，葆塞为外臣。
作朝鲜列传第五十五。
唐蒙使略通夜郎，而邛笮之君请为内臣受吏。
作西南夷列传第五十六。
子虚之事，大人赋说，靡丽多夸，然其指风谏，归於无为。
作司马相如列传第五十七。
黥布叛逆，子长国之，以填江淮之南，安剽楚庶民。
作淮南衡山列传第五十八。
奉法循理之吏，不伐功矜能，百姓无称，亦无过行。
作循吏列传第五十九。
正衣冠立於朝廷，而群臣莫敢言浮说，长孺矜焉；好荐人，称长者，壮有溉。
作汲郑列传第六十。
自孔子卒，京师莫崇庠序，唯建元元狩之间，文辞粲如也。
translation: 
He wrote the fifty-fourth biography of Dongyue.
Prince Dan of Yan was defeated and scattered in the Liaodong area. Wei Man gathered his fleeing people and gathered in Haidong to stabilize the Zhenfan and other tribes, defend the border fortress, and became a minister outside the fortress.
The fifty-fifth version of "Biographies of Korea".
Meng of the Tang Dynasty sent an envoy to the southwest, and sent an envoy to Yelang. The princes of Qiong and Zuo requested to become ministers of the Han Dynasty and accept officials sent by the imperial court.
The fifty-sixth chapter of "Biographies of Southwest Yi".
Sima Xiangru's "Zixu Fu" and "Adult Fu" were deeply liked by the monarch. Although the writing was too gorgeous and exaggerated, its purpose was to satirize and admonish, and it was attributed to rule by inaction.
He wrote the fifty-seventh biography of Sima Xiangru.
Ying Bu rebelled, and Liu Chang, the youngest son of Emperor Gaozu, was made the king there, guarding the area between the Yangtze and Huaihe Rivers, and appeasing the fierce people of Chu.
The fifty-eighth author of "Biographies of Huainan Hengshan".
Officials who abide by the law and act according to reason do not boast of their merits and talents, and the people do not praise them, and they do not commit any wrongdoings.
He wrote the fifty-ninth biography of Xunli.
Standing in the court with upright clothes, no one among the ministers dares to say anything false, Ji Changru is upright and solemn; he likes to recommend wise men and praises the elders, Zheng Zhuang is generous and ethical.
The sixtieth edition of "The Biography of Jizheng".
After the death of Confucius, no one in the capital paid much attention to school education. Only between Jianyuan and Yuanshou, the cultural and educational undertakings were brilliant.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
作儒林列传第六十一。
民倍本多巧，奸轨弄法，善人不能化，唯一切严削为能齐之。
作酷吏列传第六十二。
汉既通使大夏，而西极远蛮，引领内乡，欲观中国。
作大宛列传第六十三。
救人於戹，振人不赡，仁者有乎；不既信，不倍言，义者有取焉。
作游侠列传第六十四。
夫事人君能说主耳目，和主颜色，而获亲近，非独色爱，能亦各有所长。
作佞幸列传第六十五。
不流世俗，不争埶利，上下无所凝滞，人莫之害，以道之用。
作滑稽列传第六十六。
齐、楚、秦、赵为日者，各有俗所用。
欲循观其大旨，作日者列传第六十七。
三王不同龟，四夷各异卜，然各以决吉凶。
略闚其要，作龟策列传第六十八。
布衣匹夫之人，不害於政，不妨百姓，取与以时而息财富，智者有采焉。
translation: 
The sixty-first chapter of "Biographies of Scholars".
People abandon their profession and become more cunning, commit crimes, and play with the law. Even good people cannot influence them. Only severe punishment in accordance with the law can make them become unified and abide by social order.
The sixty-second chapter of "Biographies of Cruel Officials".
After the Han Dynasty established diplomatic relations with the Great Wall, the barbarians in the far west stretched their necks to look at the hinterland, hoping to see Chinese civilization.
The sixty-third chapter of "Dawan Biography".
Saving people in trouble and helping people in poverty, benevolent people must have this virtue; never break promises, never break promises, there is something to be said for a righteous person.
The sixty-fourth chapter of "Biographies of Knights".
Serving the monarch can make one's ears and eyes happy, his face pleasant, and at the same time he can gain the Lord's closeness. Not only is his beauty attractive, but his skills are also unique.
The sixty-fifth chapter of "The Biography of Ni Xing".
They do not follow the secular world, do not compete for snobbery, and have no obstacles from above or below. No one can harm them because they make good use of their ways.
The sixty-sixth chapter of "Funny Biographies".
The fortune tellers of Qi, Chu, Qin and Zhao each had their own methods according to the customs.
If I want to summarize its gist, I will write the 67th Biography of the Japanese.
The monarchs of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties had different divination methods, and the barbarians from all over the world had different divination customs, but they all used divination to judge good and bad luck.
A rough survey of the outlines of divination was made into the sixty-eighth biography of Guice.
Ordinary people like ordinary people do not harm the government or the people. They buy and sell according to the times to increase wealth. Wise people can learn from them.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
作货殖列传第六十九。
维我汉继五帝末流，接三代业。
周道废，秦拨去古文，焚灭诗书，故明堂石室金匮玉版图籍散乱。
於是汉兴，萧何次律令，韩信申军法，张苍为章程，叔孙通定礼仪，则文学彬彬稍进，诗书往往间出矣。
自曹参荐盖公言黄老，而贾生、晁错明申、商，公孙弘以儒显，百年之间，天下遗文古事靡不毕集太史公。
太史公仍父子相续纂其职。
罔罗天下放失旧闻，王迹所兴，原始察终，见盛观衰，论考之行事，略推三代，录秦汉，上记轩辕，下至于兹，著十二本纪，既科条之矣。
并时异世，年差不明，作十表。
礼乐损益，律历改易，兵权山川鬼神，天人之际，承敝通变，作八书。
二十八宿环北辰，三十辐共一毂，运行无穷，辅拂股肱之臣配焉，忠信行道，以奉主上，作三十世家。
translation: 
The sixty-ninth chapter of "Biographies of Huo Zhi".
I want the Han Dynasty to inherit the legacy of the Five Emperors and continue the great cause that was interrupted by three generations.
The royal power of the Zhou Dynasty was weakened, and the Qin Dynasty destroyed ancient cultural classics and burned "Poems" and "Books". Therefore, the golden halls and stone chambers with jade plates and pictures were scattered and disordered.
At this time, the Han Dynasty rose, Xiao He revised the law, Han Xin affirmed the military law, Zhang Cang established the regulations, Shusun Tong established the etiquette, and then literary men with both good character and learning gradually began to use it. "Poems" and "Books" are constantly being discovered in various places.
Since Cao Shen recommended Gai Gong to lecture on Huang Lao's teachings, Jia Sheng and Huang Cuo were familiar with the methods of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang, and Gongsun Hong became famous with Confucianism, within a hundred years, all the ancient documents and ancient events in the world were collected in Tai Shigong.
Taishi Gong and his son took over this position one after another.
Tai Shigong said: Woohoo! My ancestors once took charge of this matter and became famous in the Tang and Yu Dynasties. It was not until the Zhou Dynasty that they took charge of this matter again. Therefore, the Sima family has been in charge of the affairs of heavenly officials for generations. Does it stop with my generation? Keep it in your heart, keep it in your heart! We collect the lost old news from all over the world, trace the origins of the rise of the emperor, see its rise and fall, study and examine the deeds of each generation, briefly infer the three generations, record the Qin and Han Dynasties in detail, record Xuanyuan in the first, and write down to the present. Twelve books have been arranged according to categories.
Some of them were from different worlds at the same time, and the chronological difference is unknown, so they were made into ten tables.
The increase and decrease of rituals and music, changes in laws and calendars, military strategies, mountains and rivers, ghosts and gods, and the relationship between heaven and man were taken advantage of to implement changes in their decline, and the eight books were written.
The twenty-eight constellations of stars surround Beichen, and thirty spokes are gathered at the hub of the chariot, running endlessly. The ministers of Fu Bi and Gu Gong are equivalent to this. They are loyal and faithful to serve the Lord and become a family of thirty.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
扶义俶傥，不令己失时，立功名於天下，作七十列传。
凡百三十篇，五十二万六千五百字，为太史公书。
序略，以拾遗补艺，成一家之言，厥协六经异传，整齐百家杂语，藏之名山，副在京师，俟後世圣人君子。
第七十。
太史公曰：余述历黄帝以来至太初而讫，百三十篇。
translation: 
Some people act righteously, are unruly and unruly, do not let themselves lose the opportunity, make achievements and become famous in the world, and write seventy biographies.
There are a total of 130 chapters and 526,500 words, which are called "Tai Shi Gong Shu".
The preface is a brief introduction, supplementing the Six Arts with scraps, and turning it into a family's talk. It combines the different versions of the "Six Classics" and organizes the miscellany of hundreds of schools of thought. It is hidden in a famous mountain and a copy is left in Kyoto for future generations of saints and gentlemen to see.
Seventy.
Tai Shigong said: I have recounted the historical events from the time of the Yellow Emperor to the year of Taichu, a total of one hundred and thirty chapters.


