Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈完者，陈厉公他之子也。
完生，周太史过陈，陈厉公使卜完，卦得《观》之《否ǐ》： 是为观国之光，利用宾于王。
此其代陈有国乎？
不在此而在异国乎？
非此其身也，在其子孙。
若在异国，必姜姓。
姜姓，四岳之后。
物莫能两大，陈衰，此其昌乎？
厉公者，陈文公少子也，其母蔡女。
文公卒，厉公兄鲍立，是为桓公。
桓公与他异母。
及桓公病，蔡人为他杀桓公鲍及太子免而立他，为厉公。
厉公既立，娶蔡女。
蔡女淫于蔡人，数归，厉公亦数如蔡。
桓公之少子林怨厉公杀其父与兄，乃令蔡人诱厉公而杀之。
林自立，是为庄公。
故陈完不得立，为陈大夫。
厉公之杀，以淫出国，故《春秋》曰 蔡人杀陈他 ，罪之也。
translation: 
Chen Wan is Chen Ligong's son.
When Wan was born, Taishi of Zhou happened to pass by the state of Chen. Chen Ligong asked him to divine divination for Chen Wan. The hexagram obtained was "Guan Gua" changed to "No Gua". Taishi said: The meaning of the hexagram is: observing the customs and sentiments of the country is helpful for being the king's guest.
Does this mean that he will obtain the throne of Chen and own the country?
Maybe it's not in Chen country but in another country?
Or it may not be fulfilled on others, but be fulfilled on his descendants.
If it is in another country, it must be the country with the surname Jiang.
The surname Jiang is a descendant of the Four Mountains during the reign of Emperor Yao.
It is impossible for two things to be powerful at the same time. After the decline of Chen State, his branch will prosper!
Li Gong is the youngest son of Chen Wengong, and his mother is a woman from Cai State.
After Duke Wen died, Duke Li's brother Chen Bao came to the throne, and this was Duke Huan.
Duke Huan and his younger brother Chen were not born from the same mother.
When Duke Huan was ill, the people of Cai killed Duke Huan Chen Bao and Prince Chen Min on behalf of Chen Ta, and made Chen Ta the king. This is Duke Li.
After Li Gong came to the throne, he married a woman from Cai State.
This Cai woman committed adultery with a Cai man and returned to Cai many times. Duke Li also frequently went to Cai.
Chen Lin, the youngest son of Duke Huan, resented Duke Li for killing his father and brother, so he asked the people of Cai to trick Duke Li and kill him.
Chen Lin established himself as king, this is Duke Zhuang.
Therefore, Chen Wan could not be established as the king, but only as the official of the state of Chen.
Duke Li was killed because he went abroad for promiscuity, so the Spring and Autumn Annals said that "Cai people killed Chen Ta", which was an accusation against him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
庄公卒，立弟杵臼，是为宣公。
宣公二十一年，杀其太子御寇。
御寇与完相爱，恐祸及己，完故奔齐。
齐桓公欲使为卿，辞曰： 羁旅之臣幸得免负檐，君之惠也，不敢当高位。
桓公使为工正。
齐懿仲欲妻完，卜之。占曰： 是谓凤皇于蜚，和鸣锵锵。
有妫ī之后，将育于姜。
五世其昌，并于正卿。
八世之后，莫之与京。
卒妻完。
完之奔齐，齐桓公立十四年矣。
完卒，谥为敬仲。
仲生稚孟夷。
敬仲之如齐，以陈字为田氏。
田稚孟夷生愍孟庄，田愍孟庄生文子须无。
田文子事齐庄公。
晋之大夫栾逞作乱于晋，来奔齐，齐庄公厚客之。
晏婴与田文子谏，庄公弗听。
文子卒，生桓子无宇。
translation: 
After Zhuang Gong died, his younger brother Chujiu came to the throne. This was Chen Xuangong.
In the 21st year of Xuangong's reign, Chujiu killed the prince Yu Kou.
Yu Kou and Chen Wan were close, and he was afraid that the disaster would involve him, so Chen Wan fled to Qi State.
Duke Huan of Qi wanted to appoint him as minister, but he declined and said: "As a humble minister living abroad, I am fortunate enough to be exempted from all kinds of burdens. It is already a favor given to me by you. I dare not hold such a high position again."
Duke Huan of Qi appointed him as Gongzheng in charge of hundreds of workers.
Qi Yizhong wanted to marry his daughter to Chen Wan, so he conducted a divination for this matter. The result of the divination said: This is called the flying phoenix, with a harmonious sound.
The descendants of the Gui family will grow up under the Jiang family.
After the Five Dynasties, he will be prosperous and have the same status as Zhengqing.
After eight generations, no one can be higher than him.
He finally married his daughter to Chen Wan.
When Chen Wan fled to Qi, Duke Huan of Qi had been in power for fourteen years.
After Chen Wan's death, his posthumous title was Jingzhong.
Jingzhong gave birth to Yu Mengyi.
After Jingzhong arrived in Qi State, he changed the Chen family name to the Tian family name.
Tian Zhen Meng Yi gave birth to Min Meng Zhuang, and Tian Min Meng Zhuang gave birth to Wen Zi Xu Wu.
Tian Wenzi served Duke Zhuang of Qi.
Luan Cheng, a senior official of the Jin State, caused trouble in the Jin State and fled to the Qi State. Duke Zhuang of Qi gave him generous treatment.
Yan Ying and Tian Wenzi advised him, but Duke Zhuang did not listen.
Tian Wenzi died, and his son was Huanzi Wuyu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
田桓子无宇有力，事齐庄公，甚有宠。
无宇卒，生武子开与厘ī子乞。
田厘子乞事齐景公为大夫，其收赋税于民以小斗受之，其禀予民以大斗，行阴德于民，而景公弗禁。
由此田氏得齐众心，宗族益强，民思田氏。
晏子数谏景公，景公弗听。
已而使于晋，与叔向私语曰： 齐国之政其卒归于田氏矣。
晏婴卒后，范、中行氏反晋。
晋攻之急，范、中行请粟于齐。田乞欲为乱，树党于诸侯，乃说景公曰： 范、中行数有德于齐，齐不可不救。
齐使田乞救之而输之粟。
景公太子死，后有宠姬曰芮子，生子荼。
景公病，命其相国惠子与高昭子以子荼为太子。
景公卒，两相高、国立荼，是为晏孺子。
而田乞不说，欲立景公他子阳生。
阳生素与乞欢。
晏孺子之立也，阳生奔鲁。
田乞伪事高昭子、国惠子者，每朝代参乘，言曰： 始诸大夫不欲立孺子。
孺子既立，君相之，大夫皆自危，谋作乱。
又绐大夫曰： 高昭子可畏也，及未发先之。
translation: 
Tian Huanzi Wuyu was strong and served Duke Zhuang of Qi, and was very favored.
Wuyu died and his sons were Wu Zikai and Liziqi.
Lizitianqi served Qi Jinggong as a doctor. When he collected taxes from the people, he collected them with a small bucket, and when he gave grain to the people, he used a big bucket. He secretly showed kindness to the people, but Qi Jinggong did not prohibit it.
Therefore, the Tian family gained the hearts and minds of the people of Qi. Their family became stronger and stronger, and the people's hearts turned to the Tian family.
Yanzi repeatedly advised Jinggong, but Jinggong refused to listen.
Soon Yanzi went to Jin as an envoy. He and his uncle said privately: The political power of Qi will eventually return to the Tian family.
After Yan Ying's death, the Fan family and the Zhongxing family rebelled in Jin.
The Jin State stepped up its pursuit of them. The Fan family and the Zhonghang family asked Qi to borrow grain. Tian Qi wanted to cause trouble and form a clique among the princes, so Qi Jinggong said: "The Fan family and the Zhonghang family have been kind to Qi many times, and Qi has to save them."
Qi State sent Tian Qi to rescue them and sent them food.
The prince of Qi Jinggong passed away. Jinggong had a favorite concubine named Rui Zi, and the son Rui Zi gave birth to was named Tu.
When Jinggong was ill, he asked his prime ministers Guo Huizi and Gao Zhaozi to make their son Tu the crown prince.
After Jinggong's death, the two prime ministers of Gao and Guo made Tu the king of the country. This was Yan Ruzi.
But Tian Qi was very unhappy and wanted to establish Jinggong's other son Yangsheng.
Yang Sheng usually has a good relationship with Tian Qi.
After Yan Ruzi ascended the throne, Yang Sheng fled to the state of Lu.
Tian Qi pretended to serve Gao Zhaozi and Guohui, and would accompany them in the car every time they went to court. He also said: At first, none of the officials wanted to have a child.
After Ruzi came to the throne, you two were appointed prime ministers, and the officials were all in danger and plotting to cause chaos.
Tian Qi lied to the doctors and said: Gao Zhaozi is very scary, let's kill him before he does it!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
诸大夫从之。
田乞、鲍牧与大夫以兵入公室，攻高昭子。
昭子闻之，与国惠子救公。
公师败。
田乞之众追国惠子，惠子奔莒ǔ，遂返杀高昭子。
晏圉奔鲁。
田乞使人之鲁，迎阳生。
阳生至齐，匿田乞家。
请诸大夫曰： 常之母有鱼菽ū之祭，幸而来会饮。
会饮田氏。
田乞盛阳生橐中，置坐中央。发橐，出阳生，曰： 此乃齐君矣。
大夫皆伏谒。
将盟立之，田乞诬曰： 吾与鲍牧谋共立阳生也。
鲍牧怒曰： 大夫忘景公之命乎？
诸大夫欲悔，阳生乃顿首曰： 可则立之，不可则已。
鲍牧恐祸及己，乃复曰： 皆景公之子，何为不可！
遂立阳生于田乞之家，是为悼公。
乃使人迁晏孺子于骀，而杀孺子荼。
悼公既立，田乞为相，专齐政。
四年，田乞卒，子常代立，是为田成子。
鲍牧与齐悼公有郄，杀悼公。
齐人共立其子壬，是为简公。
田常成子与监止俱为左右相，相简公。
translation: 
The doctors all obeyed him.
Tian Qi, Bao Mu and other officials led troops into the palace to attack Gao Zhaozi.
After Zhaozi heard about it, he and Guohuizi went to rescue the king.
The king's army failed.
Tian Qi's men went after Guo Huizi, but Huizi fled to Ju, and then returned to kill Gao Zhaozi.
Yan Ying's son Yan Yu fled to Lu.
Tian Qi sent people to the state of Lu to welcome Yang Sheng back.
Yang Sheng returned to Qi State and hid in Tian Beggar's home.
Tian Qi invited the officials and said: "Tian Chang's mother has prepared some coarse food and wine. Please come and enjoy the feast."
All the officials came to Tian's house to drink.
Tian Qi put Yang Sheng in his pocket and placed him on the central seat. During the banquet, Tian Qi opened his pocket and released Yang Sheng. He said, "This is the king of Qi."
The doctors all bowed to pay homage.
About to make an alliance to support Yang Sheng, Tian Qi lied and said: I conspired with Bao Mu to support Yang Sheng.
Bao Mu said angrily: "Have the officials forgotten Jinggong's death?"
The officials wanted to regret it, but Yang Sheng kowtowed and said: If you think I can do it, make me king, if you can't do it, depose me.
Bao Mu was afraid that disaster would happen to him, so he said again: "They are all the sons of Jinggong, why not?"
Finally, Yang Sheng was established as the king in Tianqi's house. This was Duke Mourning.
So he sent people to move Yan Ruzi to Ni and killed Ruzi Tu.
After Duke Mourning ascended the throne, Tian Qi was appointed prime minister and took over the political power of Qi.
Four years later, Tian Qi died and his son Tian Chang took over the position. This is Tian Chengzi.
Bao Mu had a disagreement with Duke Dao of Qi and killed Duke Dao of Qi.
The people of Qi jointly supported Ren, the son of Duke Ai, who was Duke Jian of Qi.
Tian Changchengzi and Jianzhi served as prime ministers and assisted Duke Jian.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
田常心害监止，监止幸于简公，权弗能去。
于是田常复修厘子之政，以大斗出贷，以小斗收。
齐人歌之曰： 妪乎采芑，归乎田成子！
齐大夫朝，御鞅谏简公曰： 田、监不可并也，君其择焉。
君弗听。
子我者，监止之宗人也，常与田氏有郄。
田氏疏族田豹事子我有宠。
子我曰： 吾欲尽灭田氏适，以豹代田氏宗。
豹曰： 臣于田氏疏矣。
不听。
已而豹谓田氏曰： 子我将诛田氏，田氏弗先，祸及矣。
子我舍公宫，田常兄弟四人乘如公宫，欲杀子我。
子我闭门。
简公与妇人饮檀台，将欲击田常。
太史子余曰： 田常非敢为乱，将除害。
简公乃止。
田常出，闻简公怒，恐诛，将出亡。
田子行曰： 需，事之贼也。
田常于是击子我。
子我率其徒攻田氏，不胜，出亡。
田氏之徒追杀子我及监止。
translation: 
Tian Chang was jealous of Jian Zhi, because Jian Zhi was very favored by Duke Jian of Qi and his power could not be removed.
So Tian Chang reused his father Lizi's method, using big buckets to lend grain to the people and small buckets to take it back.
The people of Qi State sang in praise of him and said: The old lady picked raspberries and gave them to Tian Chengzi!
When the officials of Qi State went to court, Yu Martingale admonished Duke Jian and said: Tian Chang and Jian Zhi cannot be appointed at the same time. Let the monarch choose!
Duke Jian didn't listen.
Ziwo is of the same clan as Jian Zhi, and is usually at odds with the Tian family.
Tian Bao, a distant relative of the Tian family, served Ziwo and was favored.
Ziwo said: I want to kill all the direct descendants of the Tian family and let you continue the Tian family line.
Tian Bao said: I am just Tian’s distant relative.
I won't listen.
Soon Tian Bao said to Tian, ​​"I am going to kill Tian. If Tian doesn't take action first, disaster will come."
I live in Duke Jian's palace, and the four Tian Chang brothers also rode to the palace and wanted to kill me.
I shut the door.
Justice Jian and his beloved concubine were drinking and having fun in Tantai, so they wanted to attack Tian Chang.
Taishi Ziyu said: Tian Chang did not dare to cause trouble, he wanted to eliminate harm for the country.
Only then did Mr. Jian stop.
After Tian Chang came out of the palace, he heard that Duke Jian had sent Nu, and he was afraid that he would be killed, so he wanted to flee.
Tian Zixing said: Hesitation is the enemy of career.
Tian Chang then attacked me.
Ziwo led his men to attack the Tian family, but could not win and had to flee.
Tian's men chased and killed Ziwo and Jianzhi.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
简公出奔，田氏之徒追执简公于徐州。
简公曰： 蚤从御鞅之言，不及此难。
田氏之徒恐简公复立而诛己，遂杀简公。
简公立四年而杀。
于是田常立简公弟骜，是为平公。
平公即位，田常为相。
田常既杀简公，惧诸侯共诛己，乃尽归鲁、卫侵地，西约晋韩、魏、赵氏，南通吴、越之使，修功行赏，亲于百姓，以故齐复定。
田常言于齐平公曰： 德施人之所欲，君其行之；刑罚人之所恶，臣请行之。
行之五年，齐国之政皆归田常。
田常于是尽诛鲍、晏、监止及公族之强者，而割齐自安平以东至琅邪，自为封邑。
封邑大于平公之所食。
田常乃选齐国中女子长七尺以上为后宫，后宫以百数，而使宾客舍人出入后宫者不禁。
及田常卒，有七十余男。
田常卒，子襄子盘代立，相齐。
常谥为成子。
田襄子既相齐宣公，三晋杀知伯，分其地。
襄子使其兄弟宗人尽为齐都邑大夫，与三晋通使，且以有齐国。
襄子卒，子庄子白立。
田庄子相齐宣公。
宣公四十三年，伐晋，毁黄城，围阳狐。
translation: 
Duke Jian fled, and Tian's men chased him to Xuzhou and captured him.
Duke Jian said: If I had listened to Yu Yang earlier, I would not have suffered such a disaster.
Tian's subordinates were worried that Duke Jian would kill them after he was restored to the throne, so they killed Duke Jian.
Duke Jian was killed four years after he ascended the throne.
So Tian Chang supported Ao, the younger brother of Duke Jian, to the throne. This was Duke Qi Ping.
After Ping Gong ascended the throne, he appointed Tian Chang as prime minister.
After Tian Chang killed Duke Jian, he was afraid that the princes from all over the world would unite to kill him, so he returned all the lands that he had occupied in Lu and Wei. The west made treaties with Jin, Han, Wei, and Zhao, and the south exchanged envoys with Wu and Yue to cultivate meritorious deeds, give rewards, and get close to the people. As a result, Qi regained stability.
Tian Chang said to Qi Pinggong: "To perform kindness is what people want, you should implement it yourself; if punishment is what people hate, please let me carry it out."
After five years of doing this, the political power of Qi State was controlled by Tian Chang.
So Tian Chang killed all the more powerful of the Bao, Yan, Jianzhi, and Gong clans, and divided the land of Qi from the east of Anping to Langye as his own fiefdom.
His fiefdom was larger than the land enjoyed by Qi Pinggong.
Tian Chang selected Qi women with a height of more than seven feet to be his concubines in the harem. There were more than 100 concubines, and he allowed guests and attendants to enter and leave the harem at will without any restrictions.
By the time Tian Chang died, Concubine Ji had given birth to more than seventy sons.
After Tian Chang died, his son Xiangzi Tianpan took over his position and served as prime minister of Qi.
Tian Chang's posthumous name is Chengzi.
After Tian Xiangzi became prime minister of Duke Xuan of Qi, the Han, Zhao and Wei families of Jin killed Zhibo and divided his territory.
Xiangzi also asked his brothers and his own people to serve as officials in Qi's large and small cities, and to communicate with the three Jin Dynasties as envoys. He almost owned Qi.
After Xiangzi died, his son Zhuangzi Tianbai succeeded his father.
Tian Zhuangzi served as the prime minister of Duke Xuan of Qi.
In the forty-third year of Xuangong's reign, Qi attacked Jin, destroyed Huangcheng, and besieged Yanghu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
明年，伐鲁、葛及安陵。
明年，取鲁之一城。
庄子卒，子太公和立。
田太公相齐宣公。
宣公四十八年，取鲁之郕。
明年，宣公与郑人会西城。
伐卫，取毌丘。
宣公五十一年卒，田会自廪丘反。
宣公卒，子康公贷立。
贷立十四年，淫于酒妇人，不听政。
太公乃迁康公于海上，食一城，以奉其先祀。
明年，鲁败齐平陆。
三年，太公与魏文侯会浊泽，求为诸侯。
魏文侯乃使使言周天子及诸侯，请立齐相田和为诸侯。周天子许之。
康公之十九年，田和立为齐侯，列于周室，纪元年。
齐侯太公和立二年，和卒，子桓公午立。
桓公午五年，秦、魏攻韩，韩求救于齐。
齐桓公召大臣而谋曰： 蚤救之孰与晚救之？
驺忌曰： 不若勿救。
translation: 
In the second year, he attacked Lucheng, Geyi and Anling.
In another year, he captured a city in the state of Lu.
After Tian Zhuangzi died, his son Taigong Tianhe succeeded his father.
Grand Duke Tian assisted Duke Xuan of Qi.
In the forty-eighth year of Xuangong's reign, Qi captured the city of Lu.
In the second year, Qi Xuangong and Zheng Guoren met in Xicheng.
Qi State attacked Wei State and captured Qiu.
In the fifty-first year of Xuangong's reign, Qi Xuangong died, and Tian Hui rebelled in Linqiu.
After Qi Xuangong died, his son Kang Gongdai came to the throne.
For fourteen years after he took the throne, he indulged in wine and sex and ignored political affairs.
Taigong Tianhe moved him to the seaside and only built a city as a food town in order to provide sacrifices to his ancestors.
The next year, the Lu army defeated the Qi army in Pinglu.
Three years later, Qi Taigong Tianhe and Wei Wenhou met in Zhuoze and asked to become princes.
Marquis Wen of Wei sent envoys to report to the Emperor of Zhou and the princes of various countries, requesting that Qi Xiang Tianhe be made a prince. The Emperor of Zhou granted this request.
In the 19th year of Duke Kanggong of Qi, Tian He officially became the Marquis of Qi, and was listed in the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty, and the first year of chronology began.
Qi Hou Taigong Tian He died in the second year of his reign, and his son Huan Gong Tian Wu came to the throne.
In the fifth year of Duke Huan's reign, Qin and Wei attacked South Korea, and South Korea asked Qi for help.
Duke Huan of Qi Tian Wu summoned the ministers to discuss: Is it better to go to the rescue earlier or later?
Zuo Ji said: It is better not to save him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
段干朋曰： 不救，则韩且折而入于魏，不若救之。
田臣思曰： 过矣君之谋也！
秦、魏攻韩，楚、赵必救之，是天以燕予齐也。
桓公曰： 善。
乃阴告韩使者而遣之。
韩自以为得齐之救，因与秦、魏战。
楚、赵闻之，果起兵而救之。
齐因起兵袭燕国，取桑丘。
六年，救卫。
桓公卒，子威王因齐立。
是岁，故齐康公卒，绝无后，奉邑皆入田氏。
齐威王元年，三晋因齐丧来伐我灵丘。
三年，三晋灭晋后而分其地。
六年，鲁伐我，入阳关。
晋伐我，至博陵。
七年，卫伐我，取薛陵。
九年，赵伐我，取甄。
威王初即位以来，不治，委政卿大夫，九年之间，诸侯并伐，国人不治。
于是威王召即墨大夫而语之曰： 自子之居即墨也，毁言日至。
然吾使人视即墨，田野辟，民人给，官无留事，东方以宁。
translation: 
Duan Qianpeng said: If we don't save it, Korea will be merged into Wei if it fails. It's better to save it.
Tian Chensi said: Your plan is wrong!
When Qin and Wei attack South Korea, Chu and Zhao must rescue it. This is God’s gift of Yan to Qi.
Duke Huan said: Excellent!
So he secretly told the Korean envoy to rescue him and send him away.
South Korea thought it had received reinforcements from Qi, so it went to war with Qin and Wei.
After Chu and Zhao found out, they sent troops to rescue.
Qi State took the opportunity to send troops to attack Yan State and occupied Sangqiu.
In the sixth year of Duke Huan, he sent troops to rescue the country.
Duke Huan died, and his son King Wei Yinqi came to the throne.
In this year, the original Duke Kang of Qi passed away, cutting off his descendants, and all the fiefdoms belonged to the Tian family.
In the first year of King Wei of Qi, the three Jin Dynasties took advantage of the funeral in Qi to attack Lingqiu.
In three years, Han, Zhao, and Wei destroyed the Jin Dynasty and divided its land.
In the sixth year, Lu attacked Qi and captured Yangguan.
Jin State attacked Qi State and reached Boling.
In the seventh year, Weiguo attacked Qi and captured Xue Ling.
In the ninth year, Zhao State attacked Qi State and occupied Zhencheng.
When King Wei first came to the throne, he ignored state affairs and left the political affairs to the officials. Within nine years, princes from all over the world came to attack him, and the people of Qi were not at peace.
So King Wei summoned the Jimo doctor and said to him: Ever since you took charge of Jimo, there have been slanderous remarks about you every day.
But I sent people to Jimo to inspect, and the fields were developed, the people lived a prosperous life, the government did not have a backlog of official affairs, and the east of Qi State was at peace.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
是子不事吾左右以求誉也。
封之万家。召阿大夫语曰： 自子之守阿，誉言日闻。
然使使视阿，田野不辟，民贫苦。
昔日赵攻甄，子弗能救。
卫取薛陵，子弗知。
是子以币厚吾左右以求誉也。
是日，烹阿大夫，及左右尝誉者皆并烹之。
遂起兵西击赵、卫，败魏于浊泽而围惠王。
惠王请献观以和解，赵人归我长城。
于是齐国震惧，人人不敢饰非，务尽其诚。
齐国大治。
诸侯闻之，莫敢致兵于齐二十余年。
驺忌子以鼓琴见威王，威王说而舍之右室。
须臾，王鼓琴，驺忌子推户入曰： 善哉鼓琴！
王勃然不说，去琴按剑曰： 夫子见容未察，何以知其善也？
translation: 
This is because you will not flatter me in order to gain praise!
So, he was granted ten thousand households and a city of food, and he summoned the doctor Acheng and said to him: Since you have governed Acheng, I can hear words of praise for you every day.
But I sent people to inspect Acheng. The fields were deserted and the people were poor.
Once upon a time, the Zhao army attacked Zhencheng, but you were unable to rescue it.
Weiguo captured Xue Ling, and you didn’t know.
This is how you use your property to bribe my right and left to seek praise!
Doctor Acheng was cooked to death on the same day, and all the people who had praised him were also cooked and killed.
So he sent troops to the west to attack Zhao and Wei, defeated the Wei army in Zhuoze and besieged King Wei Hui.
King Hui of Wei asked for the city to be used to make peace. The people of Zhao returned the Great Wall of Qi.
As a result, the whole country of Qi was shocked. Everyone did not dare to cover up their mistakes and tried hard to show their loyalty.
The state of Qi was well governed.
After hearing this, the princes did not dare to send troops to Qi for more than twenty years.
Zuo Jizi went to see King Wei of Qi because he was good at playing the harp. King Wei liked him very much and let him live in the right room of the palace.
Not long after, King Wei was playing the harp, and Zuo Jizi opened the door and came in and said: "You play the harp very well!"
King Wei was suddenly unhappy. He left the piano player and pressed his sword and said, "Sir, you only see my appearance and haven't observed me carefully. How can you know that I am playing well?"


Chunk 9: 
original: 
驺忌子曰： 夫大弦浊以春温者，君也；小弦廉折以清者，相也；攫é之深，之愉者，政令也；钧谐以鸣，大小相益，回邪而不相害者，四时也：吾是以知其善也。
王曰： 善语音。
驺忌子曰： 何独语音，夫治国家而弭人民皆在其中。
王又勃然不说曰： 若夫语五音之纪，信未有如夫子者也。
若夫治国家而弭人民，又何为乎丝桐之间？
驺忌子曰： 夫大弦浊以春温者，君也；小弦廉折以清者，相也；攫之深而舍之愉者，政令也；钧谐以鸣，大小相益，回邪而不相害者，四时也。
夫复而不乱者，所以治昌也；连而径者，所以存亡也。故曰琴音调而天下治。
夫治国家而弭人民者，无若乎五音者。 王曰： 善。
驺忌子见三月而受相印。
淳于髡见之曰： 善说哉！
髡有愚志，愿陈诸前。
驺忌子曰： 谨受教。
translation: 
Zou Jizi said: The big string is slow and gentle, which symbolizes the king; the small string is high-pitched, bright and clear, symbolizing the prime minister; the fingers are pulling the string hard and letting it go slowly, symbolizing the government order; the sound of the piano is harmonious, the large and small are coordinated beautifully, and the twists and turns do not interfere with each other, symbolizing the four seasons: I can know how well you play from this.
King Wei said: You are very good at talking about music.
Zuo Jizi said: It is not just about music, it is also about governing the country and appeasing the people!
King Wei suddenly became unhappy and said: If we talk about the conditioning of the five tones, I believe there is no one who can compare with you.
If it is to govern the country and appease the people, how can it be among the strings?
Zou Jizi said: The big string is slow and gentle, symbolizing the king; the small string, high-pitched, bright and clear, symbolizes the prime minister; the string is played hard but released slowly, symbolizing the government order; the sound of the piano is harmonious, the large and small are coordinated beautifully, and the twists and turns do not interfere with each other, symbolizing the four seasons.
It goes back and forth without chaos because of political prosperity; it is coherent and brisk because it protects the dying country: so it is said that the harmonious tune of the piano can protect the peace of the world.
There is nothing more similar to governing a country and appeasing the people than the five tones. King Wei said: Excellent.
It took only three months for Zuo Jizi to see King Wei and he accepted the seal.
Chunyu Kun met him and said: "You are really good at talking!"
I have some superficial opinions that I would like to state in front of you.
Zuo Jizi said: Accept instruction respectfully.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
淳于髡曰： 得全全昌，失全全亡。
驺忌子曰： 谨受令，请谨毋离前。
淳于髡曰： 狶膏棘轴，所以为滑也，然而不能运方穿。
驺忌子曰： 谨受令，请谨事左右。
淳于髡曰： 弓胶昔干，所以为合也，然而不能傅合疏罅。
驺忌子曰： 谨受令，请谨自附于万民。
淳于髡曰： 狐裘虽敝，不可补以黄狗之皮。
驺忌子曰： 谨受令，请谨择君子，毋杂小人其间。
淳于髡曰： 大车不较，不能载其常任；琴瑟不较，不能成其五音。
驺忌子曰： 谨受令，请谨修法律而督奸吏。
淳于髡说毕，趋出，至门，而面其仆曰： 是人者，吾语之微言五，其应我若响之应声，是人必封不久矣。
居期年，封以下邳，号曰成侯。
威王二十三年，与赵王会平陆。
二十四年，与魏王会田于郊。
魏王问曰： 王亦有宝乎？
translation: 
Chunyu Kun said: If you serve the king with care and error, your reputation will be prosperous; if you are not careful or make mistakes, your reputation will be destroyed.
Zuo Ji said: "I accept your advice respectfully. I will keep your words in mind."
Chunyu Kun said: The purpose of smearing the axle with lard is to lubricate it. However, if the axle hole is square, it cannot rotate.
Zuo Shuzi said: I would like to receive your advice, and I must serve the king carefully.
Chunyu Kun said: The purpose of gluing bows that have been used for a long time is to stick them together, but the glue cannot completely close the gaps.
Zuo Jizi said: I would like to receive your advice and make myself dependent on all peoples.
Chunyu Kun said: Even if the fox skin coat is torn, it cannot be repaired with yellow dog skin.
Zuo Jizi said: I would like to receive your advice. I must carefully select gentlemen and not let villains mix among them.
Chunyu Kun said: If the cart is not straightened, it will not be able to carry the load properly; if the strings of the harp and harp are not tuned well, the five notes will not be harmonious.
Zuo Jizi said: I would like to receive your advice. I will conscientiously formulate laws and supervise cunning officials.
After Chunyu Kun finished speaking, he walked out quickly and said to his servant outside the door: "This man, I said five secret words to him, and he answered me like an echo. This man will definitely be sealed soon!"
A year later, King Wei granted Xiapi to Zuo Jizi, and the title was Chenghou.
In the twenty-third year of King Wei, King Qi and King Zhao met in Pinglu.
In the twenty-fourth year, the king of Qi and the king of Wei were hunting together in the countryside.
King Wei asked: "Does your Majesty also have treasures?"


Chunk 11: 
original: 
威王曰： 无有。
梁王曰： 若寡人国小也，尚有径寸之珠照车前后各十二乘者十枚，奈何以万乘之国而无宝乎？
威王曰： 寡人之所以为宝与王异。
吾臣有檀子者，使守南城，则楚人不敢为寇东取，泗上十二诸侯皆来朝。
吾臣有朌子者，使守高唐，则赵人不敢东渔于河。
吾吏有黔夫者，使守徐州，则燕人祭北门，赵人祭西门，徙而从者七千余家。
吾臣有种首者，使备盗贼，则道不十遗。
将以照千里，岂特十二乘哉！
梁惠王惭，不怿而去。
二十六年，魏惠王围邯郸，赵求救于齐。
齐威王召大臣而谋曰： 救赵孰与勿救？
驺忌子曰： 不如勿救。
段干朋曰： 不救则不义，且不利。
威王曰： 何也？
对曰： 夫魏氏并邯郸，其于齐何利哉？
且夫救赵而军其郊，是赵不伐而魏全也。
translation: 
King Wei said: No.
The King of Wei said: "As small as I am, and with ten luminous pearls one inch in diameter that can illuminate twelve chariots at the front and rear, how can a country as vast as Qi not have treasures?"
King Wei said: What I regard as treasure is different from that of the great king.
I have a minister named Tanzi, and I sent him to control Nancheng. The people of Chu did not dare to invade and plunder to the east, and the twelve princes on the shores of Surabaya came to worship.
I have a minister named Panzi, who is assigned to guard Gaotang. The people of Zhao do not dare to fish in the Yellow River to the east.
I have an official named Qian Fu, who is assigned to guard Xuzhou. People from Yan State come to the north gate to offer sacrifices, and people from Zhao State come to the west gate to offer sacrifices in order to pray for the gods to protect them from attack. More than 7,000 people moved to follow him.
I have a minister named Zhongshou who sent him to be on the lookout for thieves, but he ended up not picking up any items along the way.
These will illuminate thousands of miles, where are just twelve cars!
King Hui of Wei felt ashamed and left in despair.
In the twenty-sixth year of King Wei's reign, King Hui of Wei besieged Handan, and Zhao asked Qi for rescue.
King Wei of Qi convened the ministers to discuss: Is it better to save Zhao or not to save Zhao?
Zuo Jizi said: It is better not to save him.
Duan Qianpeng said: Not saving him would be unjust and would be detrimental to us.
King Wei said: Why?
Duan Qianpeng replied: If Wei annexes Handan, what good will it do to Qi?
If Zhao is saved and the army is stationed on the outskirts of Zhao, Zhao will not be attacked and the Wei army will be intact.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故不如南攻襄陵以弊魏，邯郸拔而乘魏之弊。
威王从其计。
其后成侯驺忌与田忌不善，公孙阅谓成侯忌曰： 公何不谋伐魏，田忌必将。
战胜有功，则公之谋中也；战不胜，非前死则后北，而命在公矣。
于是成侯言威王，使田忌南攻襄陵。
十月，邯郸拔，齐因起兵击魏，大败之桂陵。
于是齐最强于诸侯，自称为王，以令天下。
三十三年，杀其大夫牟辛。
三十五年，公孙阅又谓成侯忌曰： 公何不令人操十金卜于市，曰 我田忌之人也。
吾三战而三胜，声威天下。
欲为大事，亦吉乎不吉乎 ？
卜者出，因令人捕为之卜者，验其辞于王之所。田忌闻之，因率其徒袭攻临淄，求成侯，不胜而奔。
三十六年，威王卒，子宣王辟强立。
宣王元年，秦用商鞅。周致伯于秦孝公。
二年，魏伐赵。
translation: 
Therefore, it is better to attack Xiangling of Wei State in the south and tire the Wei army. Even if Handan is captured, we can use Wei State's fatigue to frustrate it.
King Wei listened to his plan.
Later, the relationship between Chenghou Zouji and Tian Ji was not good. Gongsun Yue said to Chenghou Zouji: Why don't you consider attacking Wei? In that case, Tian Ji will definitely lead the army.
If the victory is meritorious, it means your strategy is correct; if the defeat is unsuccessful, Tian Ji will either fight to the death forward or be defeated backward, and his life is in your hands.
So Chenghou suggested to King Wei that he send Tian Ji south to attack Xiangling.
In October, Handan was captured. Qi took the opportunity to attack the Wei army and defeated the Wei army in Guiling.
So the state of Qi became the strongest among the princes, and called himself king to command the world.
In the thirty-third year of King Wei, King Wei killed his doctor Mou Xin.
In the thirty-fifth year of King Wei's reign, Gongsun Yue said to Chenghou Zuoji again: "Why don't you ask someone to take ten pounds of gold to the street to divine fortune and say that I am Tian Ji's man?"
We won three out of three battles and our reputation spread all over the world.
Is it auspicious or unlucky to want to do big things?
After the person who asked the divination left, he sent someone to arrest the gentleman who divined for him, and verified the divination with King Wei. After Tian Ji heard about it, he led his men to attack Linzi, captured Chenghou, and ran away without winning.
In the thirty-sixth year of King Wei, King Wei of Qi passed away, and his son King Xuan Piqiang came to the throne.
In the first year of King Xuan, the State of Qin appointed Shang Yang, and the Emperor of Zhou awarded the title of overlord to Duke Xiao of Qin.
In the second year of King Xuan's reign, Wei State attacked Zhao State.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
赵与韩亲，共击魏。赵不利，战于南梁。
宣王召田忌复故位。
韩氏请救于齐。
宣王召大臣而谋曰： 蚤救孰与晚救？
驺忌子曰： 不如勿救。
田忌曰： 弗救，则韩且折而入于魏，不如蚤救之。
孙子曰： 夫韩、魏之兵未弊而救之，是吾代韩受魏之兵，顾反听命于韩也。
且魏有破国之志，韩见亡，必东面而诉于齐矣。
吾因深结韩之亲而晚承魏之弊，则可重利而得尊名也。 宣王曰： 善。
乃阴告韩之使者而遣之。
韩因恃齐，五战不胜，而东委国于齐。
齐因起兵，使田忌、田婴将，孙子为师，救韩、赵以击魏，大败之马陵，杀其将庞涓，虏魏太子申。
其后三晋之王皆因田婴朝齐王于博望，盟而去。
七年，与魏王会平阿南。
明年，复会甄。
translation: 
The State of Zhao was friendly with South Korea and attacked the State of Wei together. However, the situation of the State of Zhao was unfavorable and they were defeated in Nanliang.
King Xuan recalled Tian Ji to his original position.
South Korea asked Qi for rescue.
King Xuan summoned his ministers to discuss: Is it better to go to the rescue early or late?
Zuo Jizi said: It is better not to save him.
Tian Ji said: If we don't save it, Korea will fail and merge with Wei. It's better to rescue it as soon as possible.
Sun Bin said: If the armies of Han and Wei go to rescue before they are exhausted, then we will be attacked by the Wei army on behalf of South Korea, and then we will follow South Korea's command.
Moreover, the Wei State has plans to attack South Korea. If South Korea is about to perish, it must go east to ask Qi for reinforcements.
We take the opportunity to form a close relationship with South Korea, and we can take advantage of the Wei army's fatigue later, so that we can have greater benefits and gain a respected reputation. King Xuan said: Very good.
So he secretly told the Korean envoy and sent him away.
Because South Korea relied on Qi for rescue, it failed in all five battles, so it had no choice but to entrust the country to Qi eastward.
Qi State took advantage of the situation and sent troops, sending Tian Ji and Tian Ying as commanders and Sun Bin as military advisor. They attacked Wei State to rescue Han and Zhao. They defeated the Wei army in Maling, killed Wei general Pang Juan, and captured Wei Crown Prince Shen.
After that, the monarchs of the three Jin Dynasties were introduced by Tian Ying, paid homage to the King of Qi in Bowang, and left after swearing an oath.
In the seventh year of King Xuan, King Qi and King Wei met south of Ping'a.
The next year, we met again in Zhencheng.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
魏惠王卒。
明年，与魏襄王会徐州，诸侯相王也。
十年，楚围我徐州。
十一年，与魏伐赵，赵决河水灌齐、魏，兵罢。
十八年，秦惠王称王。
宣王喜文学游说之士，自如驺衍、淳于髡、田骈、接予、慎到、环渊之徒七十六人，皆赐列第，为上大夫，不治而议论。
是以齐稷下学士复盛，且数百千人。
十九年，宣王卒，子愍王地立。
愍王元年，秦使张仪与诸侯执政会于啮桑。
三年，封田婴于薛。
四年，迎妇于秦。
七年，与宋攻魏，败之观泽。
十二年，攻魏。
楚围雍氏，秦败屈丐。
苏代谓田轸曰： 臣愿有谒于公，其为事甚完，使楚利公，成为福，不成亦为福。
translation: 
King Wei Hui passed away.
In another year, King Xuan of Qi and King Xiang of Wei met in Xuzhou, and the princes called each other king.
In the tenth year of King Xuan's reign, the Chu army surrounded Xuzhou of Qi State.
In the eleventh year, Qi and Wei attacked Zhao, and Zhao's army was flooded by the Yellow River, so Qi and Wei withdrew their troops.
In the eighteenth year, King Qin Hui became king.
King Xuan loved scholars who were erudite and eloquent. Seventy-six of them, such as Zuo Yan, Chunyu Kun, Tian Pian, Jieyu, Shen Dao, and Huanyuan, were all given to the mansion and made them serve as senior officials. They did not deal with political affairs but exclusively discussed academic affairs.
Therefore, the number of Jixia scholars in Qi State increased again, reaching hundreds or even thousands.
In the nineteenth year of King Xuan, King Xuan of Qi passed away, and his son King Min Tiandi came to the throne.
In the first year of King Min's reign, the state of Qin sent Zhang Yi to meet with the ministers in charge of the affairs of various countries in Zhisang.
In the third year, King Min sealed Tian Ying in Xue.
Four years later, King Min married his wife from Qin.
In the seventh year, Qi and Song attacked Wei and defeated the Wei army in Guanze.
In the twelfth year of King Min, Qi attacked Wei.
Chu State besieged the Yong family in South Korea, and Qin State defeated Chu general Qu Gai.
Su Dai said to Tian Zhen, the minister of Chu State: I have something to do and would like to see you. This matter is very successful and will make Chu State beneficial to you. It will be a blessing if it succeeds, and it will be a blessing if it fails.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今者臣立于门，客有言曰魏王谓韩冯í、张仪曰： 煮枣将拔，齐兵又进，子来救寡人则可矣；不救寡人，寡人弗能拔。
此特转辞也。
秦、韩之兵毋东，旬余，则魏氏转韩从秦，秦逐张仪，交臂而事齐楚，此公之事成也。
田轸曰： 奈何使无东？
对曰： 韩冯之救魏之辞，必不谓韩王曰 冯以为魏 ，必曰 冯将以秦韩之兵东却齐宋，冯因抟三国之兵，乘屈丐之弊，南割于楚，故地必尽得之矣 。
张仪救魏之辞，必不谓秦王曰 仪以为魏 ，必曰 仪且以秦韩之兵东距齐宋，仪将抟三国之兵，乘屈丐之弊，南割于楚，名存亡国，实伐三川而归，此王业也 。
公令楚王与韩氏地，使秦制和，谓秦王曰 请与韩地，而王以施三川，韩氏之兵不用而得地于楚 。
韩冯之东兵之辞且谓秦何？
translation: 
Today I was standing at the door, and someone said that King Wei once said to Han Feng and Zhang Yi: Zhuzao is about to fall, and the Qi army is coming to attack again. If you two come to save me, we will be undefeated; if you don't come to save me, we will be powerless.
This is just a euphemism.
If the armies of Qin and Han do not go east to rescue Wei, Wei will change its strategy in more than ten days. South Korea will follow Qin, and Qin will expel Zhang Yi and serve Qi and Chu. In this way, your mission will be successful.
Tian Zhen said: How can we prevent the Qin and Han armies from advancing eastward?
Su Dai replied: Han Feng's words to save Wei will definitely not tell the King of Han that I am doing it for Wei. They will definitely say that I will use the troops of Qin and Han to push back Qi and Song to the east. I will take advantage of the opportunity to gather the armies of the three countries and use the fatigue after Qu Gai's defeat to go south to ask Chu to cede territory. Korea will definitely regain all the old lands it lost.
Zhang Yi's words to save Wei will definitely not tell the King of Qin that I am doing it for Wei. He will definitely say that I will use the forces of Qin and Han to resist Qi and Song in the east. I will gather the armies of the three kingdoms and take advantage of Qu Gai's exhaustion after the defeat to go south to ask Chu to cede territory. In name, it is to save the dying country, but in fact it is to attack the three rivers and return. This is the cause of the king.
You asked the King of Chu to give land to South Korea, and let Qin control the peace negotiations between the two countries. You told the King of Qin, please let Chu give land to South Korea, and the king could show off his power in the Sanchuan area. South Korea got the land from Chu without using its army.
What would Han Feng's words about sending troops to the east say to Qin?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
曰 秦兵不用而得三川，伐楚韩以窘魏，魏氏不敢东，是孤齐也 。
张仪之东兵之辞且谓何？
曰 秦韩欲地而兵有案，声威发于魏，魏氏之欲不失齐楚者有资矣 。
魏氏转秦韩争事齐楚，楚王欲而无与地，公令秦韩之兵不用而得地，有一大德也。
秦韩之王劫于韩冯、张仪而东兵以徇服魏，公常执左券以责于秦韩，此其善于公而恶张子多资矣。
十三年，秦惠王卒。
二十三年，与秦击败楚于重丘。
二十四年，秦使泾阳君质于齐。
二十五年，归泾阳君于秦。
孟尝君薛文入秦，即相秦。
文亡去。二十六年，齐与韩魏共攻秦，至函谷军焉。
二十八年，秦与韩河外以和，兵罢。
二十九年，赵杀其主父。
齐佐赵灭中山。
translation: 
He said that Qin captured Sanchuan without troops, attacked Chu and South Korea, and embarrassed Wei, so Wei did not dare to join Qi to the east, thus isolating Qi.
What would Zhang Yi say when he sent troops to the east?
He said that Qin and South Korea wanted to gain land but did not move. Their prestige shocked Wei, and Wei had something to rely on if it did not want to lose its relationship with Qi and Chu.
Wei changed its attitude towards Qin and South Korea and competed to serve Qi and Chu. Chu wanted to be served by Wei but did not want to give South Korea land. You allowed Qin and South Korea to get the land without troops. This is a great kindness to the two countries.
The kings of Qin and Han were threatened by Han Feng and Zhang Yi and sent troops eastward to make Wei submit. You can always accuse Qin and Han with the ticket of victory. This will cost too much to make Qin and Han like you and dislike Zhang Yi.
In the thirteenth year of King Min, King Qin Hui passed away.
In the twenty-third year, the Qi and Qin armies defeated the Chu army at Chongqiu.
In the twenty-fourth year, Qin State sent Lord Jingyang to Qi State as a hostage.
In the twenty-fifth year, Lord Jingyang was sent back to Qin.
Xue Wen, Lord Mengchang, arrived in Qin and immediately became prime minister of Qin, but soon fled Qin.
In the twenty-sixth year, Qi, South Korea, and Wei attacked Qin and stationed troops at Hanguguan.
In the twenty-eighth year, Qin gave the land beyond the river to South Korea in order to make peace, and the armies of the three countries withdrew.
In the twenty-ninth year, the people of Zhao killed their master.
The State of Qi helped the State of Zhao to destroy the State of Zhongshan.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
三十六年，王为东帝，秦昭王为西帝。
苏代自燕来，入齐，见于章华东门。
齐王曰： 嘻，善，子来！
秦使魏冉致帝，子以为何如？
对曰： 王之问臣也卒，而患之所从来微。
愿王受之而勿备称也。
秦称之，天下安之，王乃称之，无后也。
且让争帝名，无伤也。
秦称之，天下恶之，王因勿称，以收天下，此大资也。
且天下立两帝，王以天下为尊齐乎？尊秦乎？
王曰： 尊秦。
曰： 释帝，天下爱齐乎？爱秦乎？
王曰： 爱齐而憎秦。
曰： 两帝立约伐赵，孰与伐桀宋之利？
王曰： 伐桀宋利。
对曰： 夫约钧，然与秦为帝而天下独尊秦而轻齐，释帝则天下爱齐而憎秦，伐赵不如伐桀宋之利，故愿王明释帝以收天下，倍约宾秦，无争重，而王以其间举宋。
translation: 
In the thirty-sixth year of King Min's reign, King Min of Qi called himself the Eastern Emperor, and King Zhao of Qin called himself the Western Emperor.
Su Dai came to Qi from Yan State and paid homage to the King of Qi at the east gate of Zhanghua.
King Qi said: Hey, very good, sir, you are here!
Qin State sent Wei Ran to send the emperor's title. What do you think?
Su Dai replied: The king's questions to his ministers are too hasty, and the production of disasters is often not obvious.
I hope your Majesty will accept the title of Emperor, but don't prepare to proclaim yourself Emperor right away.
After the Qin State proclaims itself emperor, if the world is stable, it will not be too late for the king to proclaim himself emperor again.
Besides, it doesn't matter if you show humility when competing for the title of emperor.
If Qin becomes emperor and everyone in the world hates him, the king will not proclaim himself emperor in order to win over the people of the world. This is a great asset.
Moreover, there are two emperors in the world. Does the king think that the world respects Qi or Qin?
King Min said: Respect Qin.
Su Dai said: If we give up the title of emperor, will the world respect Qi or Qin?
King Min said: I respect and love Qi but hate Qin.
Su Dai said: Is it more beneficial for the two emperors of the East and West to form an alliance to attack Zhao, or is it more beneficial to attack the tyrant of Song?
King Min said: It would be beneficial to attack the tyrant of the Song Dynasty.
Su Dai said: The alliance is equal, but if you become emperor together with Qin, the world will only respect Qin and despise Qi. If you give up the imperial title, the world will respect Qi and hate Qin. Attacking Zhao is not as beneficial as attacking the tyrant of Song. Therefore, I hope that the king will clearly give up the imperial title to win over the people of the world, abandon the alliance, abandon Qin, and not compete with Qin. The king will use this opportunity to capture Song.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
夫有宋，卫之阳地危；有济西，赵之阿东国危；有淮北，楚之东国危；有陶、平陆，梁门不开。
释帝而贷之以伐桀宋之事，国重而名尊，燕楚所以形服，天下莫敢不听，此汤武之举也。
敬秦以为名，而后使天下憎之，此所谓以卑为尊者也。
愿王孰虑之。
于是齐去帝复为王。秦亦去帝位。
三十八年，伐宋。
秦昭王怒曰： 吾爱宋与爱新城、阳晋同。
韩聂与吾友也，而攻吾所爱，何也？
苏代为齐谓秦王曰： 韩聂之攻宋，所以为王也。
齐强，辅之以宋，楚魏必恐，恐必西事秦，是王不烦一兵，不伤一士，无事而割安邑也，此韩聂之所祷于王也。
translation: 
During the Warring States and Song Dynasty, Wei's Yangdi was in danger; if it occupied the west of Jishui, the area east of Zhao's Adi would be in danger; if it occupied the north of Huaihe River, the eastern part of Chu would be in danger; if it occupied Tao and Pinglu, the gates of Wei's capital Liang would be blocked.
Giving up the title of emperor and replacing it with the crusade against the tyrant of the Song Dynasty. In this way, the status of the country will be improved and its reputation will be respected by others. The countries of Yan and Chu will be forced to submit due to the situation, and all the countries in the world will not dare to disobey Qi. This is a righteous act like King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou.
Nominally respecting Qin's proclaimed emperor, and then making everyone in the world hate it, this is the so-called way to change from humbleness to nobility.
I hope your Majesty will consider it seriously.
So the state of Qi gave up the title of emperor and became king again, and the state of Qin also gave up the throne.
In the thirty-eighth year of King Min, the State of Qi attacked the State of Song.
King Zhao of Qin got angry and said: I love Song State just as much as I love Xincheng and Yangjin.
Han Nie of Qi State is my friend, but he attacks the place I love. Why?
Su Dai said to the King of Qin on behalf of Qi: Han Nie attacked Song just for the sake of the king.
The Qi State is strong, and with the help of the Song State, the Chu State will definitely panic, and the panic will lead to the west to serve the Qin State. In this way, the king will not need a single soldier, will not hurt a single soldier, and will make the Wei State cede Anyi without any trouble. This is what Han Nie asked the king.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
秦王曰： 吾患齐之难知。一从一衡，其说何也？
对曰： 天下国令齐可知乎？
齐以攻宋，其知事秦以万乘之国自辅，不西事秦则宋治不安。
中国白头游敖之士皆积智欲离齐秦之交，伏式结轶西驰者，未有一人言善齐者也，伏式结轶东驰者，未有一人言善秦者也。
何则？
皆不欲齐秦之合也。
何晋楚之智而齐秦之愚也！
晋楚合必议齐秦，齐秦合必图晋楚，请以此决事。 秦王曰： 诺。
于是齐遂伐宋，宋王出亡，死于温。
齐南割楚之淮北，西侵三晋，欲以并周室，为天子。
泗上诸侯邹鲁之君皆称臣，诸侯恐惧。
三十九年，秦来伐，拔我列城九。
四十年，燕、秦、楚、三晋合谋，各出锐师以伐，败我济西。
王解而却。
燕将乐毅遂入临菑，尽取齐之宝藏器。
translation: 
The King of Qin said: I am worried that it is difficult to see through the Qi State. Sometimes it is united vertically, and sometimes it is connected horizontally. How to explain this?
Su Dai replied: Can the situation of all countries in the world be known to Qi?
When Qi attacked Song, it knew that to serve Qin, it should have the power of a country of ten thousand chariots to assist it. If it did not serve Qin in the west, Song would not be stable.
The white-haired lobbyists in the Central Plains are racking their brains to alienate the alliance between Qi and Qin. Among those driving westward, no one is talking about making friends with Qi; among those driving eastward, no one is talking about making friends with Qin.
Why?
Because they don't want Qi and Qin to unite.
Why are the Three Jin and Chu so smart but Qi and Qin so stupid?
The three Jin and Chu alliances must discuss attacking Qi and Qin, and the Qi and Qin alliance must plan to attack the three Jins and Chu. Please, Your Majesty, decide what to do based on this situation! King Qin said: OK!
So the state of Qi went to attack the state of Song. The king of Song fled and died in Wencheng.
The Qi State occupied Chu State's land north of the Huai River in the south, invaded the Three Jin Dynasties in the west, and planned to annex the Zhou Dynasty and establish itself as emperor.
The princes in the Surabaya area, such as the kings of Zou, Lu and other countries, all surrendered to Qi, and the princes of all countries were very afraid.
In the thirty-ninth year of King Min, the State of Qin came to attack the State of Qi and captured nine cities.
In the 40th year of King Min's reign, Yan, Qin, Chu and the three Jins conspired to attack Qi with their elite troops, and defeated the Qi army west of Jishui.
King Qi's army broke up and retreated.
General Leyi of Yan then invaded Linzi, the capital of Qi, and plundered all the treasures and ritual vessels collected by the state of Qi.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
愍王出亡，之卫。卫君辟宫舍之，称臣而共具。
愍王不逊卫人侵之。
愍王去，走邹、鲁，有骄色，邹、鲁君弗内，遂走莒。
楚使淖齿将兵救齐，因相齐愍王。淖齿遂杀愍王而与燕共分齐之侵地卤器。
愍王之遇杀，其子法章变名姓为莒太史敫家庸。
太史敫女奇法章状貌，以为非恒人，怜而常窃衣食之，而与私通焉。
淖齿既以去莒，莒中人及齐亡臣相聚求愍王子，欲立之。
法章惧其诛己也，久之，乃敢自言 我愍王子也 。
于是莒人共立法章，是为襄王。
以保莒城而布告齐国中： 王已立在莒矣。
襄王既立，立太史氏女为王后，是为君王后，生子建。
太史敫曰： 女不取媒因自嫁，非吾种也，污吾世。
终身不睹君王后。
君王后贤，不以不睹故失人子之礼。
襄王在莒五年，田单以即墨攻破燕军，迎襄王于莒，入临菑。
translation: 
King Min fled to the state of Wei, and the king of the state of Wei opened the palace for him to live in, paid homage to him and provided him with utensils.
King Min was very arrogant, so the people of Wei came to harass him.
King Min had to leave Wei and ran to Zou and Lu. He showed an arrogant air. The kings of Zou and Lu did not accept him, so he ran to Ju again.
At this time, the state of Chu sent Nao Chi to lead troops to rescue the state of Qi, so he assisted King Min of Qi. As a result, Nao Chi actually killed Min, and together with the state of Yan, he divided the land that had been occupied by the state of Qi and the treasures plundered.
After King Min was killed, his son Fazhang changed his name and went to work as a servant in the home of Ju Taishi Jiao.
Taishi Jiao's daughter felt that Fa Zhang's appearance was extraordinary and thought that he was not an ordinary person. She loved him and often happily gave him food and clothing and had an affair with him.
After Naochi left Jucheng, the people in Jucheng and the fleeing ministers of Qi gathered together to look for King Min's son and wanted to make him king of Qi.
Fazhang was first afraid that they were going to kill him. It took a long time before he dared to say that I was the son of King Min.
So the people of Ju jointly appointed Fa Zhang to the throne, and he became King Xiang.
Because he owned the city of Ju, he announced to all parts of Qi that the new king had ascended the throne in Ju.
After King Xiang ascended the throne, he made Taishi's daughter the queen, and she was called the queen. She gave birth to a son named Jian.
Taishi Jiao said: If my daughter marries without a matchmaker, she cannot be counted as my descendant. She has tarnished our family tradition.
He never met the queen for the rest of his life.
The queen is virtuous and does not lose the etiquette of being a daughter just because her father does not see her.
King Xiang lived in Ju for five years. Tian Dan relied on Jimo's army and people to defeat the Yan army, went to Ju to welcome King Xiang, and returned to Linzi.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
齐故地尽复属齐。
齐封田单为安平君。
十四年，秦击我刚寿。
十九年，襄王卒，子创建。
王创建六年，秦攻赵，齐楚救之。
秦计曰： 齐楚救赵，亲则退兵，不亲遂攻之。
赵无食，请粟于齐，齐不听。
周子曰： 不如听之以退秦兵，不听则秦兵不却，是秦之计中而齐楚之计过也。
且赵之于齐楚，扞蔽也，犹齿之有唇也，唇亡则齿寒。
今日亡赵，明日患及齐楚。
且救赵之务，宜若奉漏瓮沃焦釜也。
夫救赵，高义也；却秦兵，显名也。
义救亡国，威却强秦之兵，不务为此而务爱粟，为国计者过矣。
齐王弗听。
秦破赵于长平四十余万，遂围邯郸。
十六年，秦灭周。
translation: 
All the original land of Qi State was returned to Qi State.
The King of Qi granted Tian Dan the title of Lord Anping.
In the fourteenth year of King Xiang, the Qin army attacked Gangshou of Qi State.
In the nineteenth year, King Xiang died and his son Tian Jian came to the throne.
Six years after King Jian of Qi came to the throne, Qin attacked Zhao, and Qi and Chu went to rescue it.
The state of Qin planned to say: Qi and Chu come to the rescue of Zhao. If they are close to each other, we will retreat; if they are not close, we will attack them.
Zhao State had no food and asked Qi State for grain support, but Qi State refused.
Zhouzi said: It is better to agree to it so that the Qin soldiers will retreat. If you don't agree to it, the Qin soldiers will not retreat. In this way, Qin's strategy will succeed, but Qi and Chu's strategies will fail.
Moreover, the State of Zhao is a barrier to Qi and Chu, just like there are lips outside the teeth. Without the lips, the teeth will get cold.
Today the State of Zhao is destroyed, and tomorrow the disaster will come to the States of Qi and Chu.
Moreover, rescuing Zhao should be like holding a leaky urn to pour out a burnt pot.
Saving Zhao is a noble act of justice; causing Qin soldiers to retreat will show their prestige.
It is a mistake to act righteously to save a dying country and to use force to defeat the powerful Qin army. Those who do not try their best to do this but focus on sparing food and making suggestions for the country are wrong.
The king of Qi did not listen to the advice.
The Qin army defeated more than forty troops of Zhao State in Changping, and then surrounded Handan.
In the 16th year of the founding of King Qi, the Qin State destroyed the Zhou Dynasty.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
君王后卒。
二十三年，秦置东郡。
二十八年，王入朝秦，秦王政置酒咸阳。
三十五年，秦灭韩。
三十七年，秦灭赵。
三十八年，燕使荆轲刺秦王，秦王觉，杀轲。
明年，秦破燕，燕王亡走辽东。
明年，秦灭魏，秦兵次于历下。
四十二年，秦灭楚。
明年，虏代王嘉，灭燕王喜。
四十四年，秦兵击齐。
齐王听相后胜计，不战，以兵降秦。
秦虏王建，迁之共。
遂灭齐为郡。
天下壹并于秦，秦王政立号为皇帝。
始，君王后贤，事秦谨，与诸侯信，齐亦东边海上，秦日夜攻三晋、燕、楚，五国各自救于秦，以故王创建四十余年不受兵。
君王后死，后胜相齐，多受秦间金，多使宾客入秦，秦又多予金，客皆为反间，劝王去从朝秦，不修攻战之备，不助五国攻秦，秦以故得灭五国。
五国已亡，秦兵卒入临淄，民莫敢格者。
王建遂降，迁于共。
故齐人怨王建不蚤与诸侯合从攻秦，听奸臣宾客以亡其国，歌之曰： 松耶柏耶？
住建共者客耶？
疾建用客之不详也。
translation: 
The king and queen of Qi died.
In the twenty-third year of the Qin Dynasty, the State of Qin established Dongjun.
In the twenty-eighth year, the King of Qi went to Qin to pay homage, and the King of Qin hosted a banquet in Xianyang.
In thirty-five years, Qin destroyed South Korea.
In the thirty-seventh year, Qin State destroyed Zhao State.
In the thirty-eighth year, the State of Yan sent Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin. The King of Qin found out and killed Jing Ke.
The next year, the Qin army captured the capital of Yan, and the king of Yan fled to Liaodong.
In another year, the Qin State destroyed the Wei State, and the Qin army was stationed in Lixia.
In the forty-two years, Qin State destroyed Chu State.
In the second year, he captured Dai Wangjia, killed Yan Wangxi, and destroyed the Yan Kingdom.
In the forty-fourth year of King Qi's founding, Qin attacked Qi.
The king of Qi followed the prime minister's plan to win later and led his army to surrender to Qin without fighting.
Qin captured King Jian of Qi and moved him to Gongcheng.
Finally, the state of Qi was destroyed and turned into a county.
The world was unified by Qin, and the Qin king established the title of emperor.
At first, the king and queen were virtuous, cautious in serving Qin, and had good relations with the princes. Qi was located on the eastern seaboard, and Qin attacked Jin, Yan, and Chu day and night. Facing Qin's attacks, the five countries had to seek self-rescue. Therefore, King Jian of Qi did not suffer from war for more than 40 years in his reign.
After the queen died, Hou Sheng became the prime minister of Qi. He accepted a lot of money from Qin spies and sent many guests to Qin. Qin gave them a lot of money. The guests all came back to carry out counterinsurgency activities and persuaded the king of Qi to give up the alliance and return to Qin. Qin was able to destroy the five kingdoms.
After the five kingdoms were destroyed, the Qin army finally invaded Linzi, and no one dared to resist.
King Jian of Qi surrendered and was moved to Gongcheng.
Therefore, the people of Qi complained that Wang Jian did not join forces with the princes to attack Qin early, and listened to the words of treacherous ministers and guests, which led to the destruction of the country. They made up a song and said: Where is the pine tree or the cypress tree?
Wasn't it the guest who asked Wang Jian to live in Gongcheng?
It means that he hates Wang Jian for using guests without paying attention to inspection.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
太史公曰：盖孔子晚而喜《易》。
《易》之为术，幽明远矣，非通人达才孰能注意焉！
故周太史之卦田敬仲完，占至十世之后；及完奔齐，懿仲卜之亦云。
田乞及常所以比犯二君，专齐国之政，非必事势之渐然也，盖若遵厌兆祥云。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Probably Confucius liked to read the "Book of Changes" in his later years.
As a piece of knowledge, the Book of Changes predicts the future from tangible and intangible objects. The principles are very profound. Who can focus on it if he is not a wise and reasonable person who is knowledgeable about the past and the present!
Therefore, when Taishi of Zhou Dynasty made divination for Tian Jingzhong, he could make divination for ten generations later. When Tian Wan fled to Qi, Yizhong also made divination for him.
The reason why Tian Qi and Tian Chang killed the two monarchs one after another and took over the power of Qi State is not necessarily because the situation has gradually developed to this point. It may be that they are following or complying with the divination omens!


