Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖，沛丰邑中阳里人，姓刘氏，字季。
父曰太公，母曰刘媪。
其先刘媪尝息大泽之陂，梦与神遇。
是时雷电晦冥，太公往视，则见蛟龙於其上。已而有身，遂产高祖。
高祖为人，隆准而龙颜，美须髯，左股有七十二黑子。
仁而爱人，喜施，意豁如也。
常有大度，不事家人生产作业。
及壮，试为吏，为泗水亭长，廷中吏无所不狎侮。
好酒及色。
常从王媪、武负贳酒，醉卧，武负、王媪见其上常有龙，怪之。
高祖每酤留饮，酒雠数倍。
及见怪，岁竟，此两家常折券弃责。
高祖常繇咸阳，纵观，观秦皇帝，喟然太息曰： 嗟乎，大丈夫当如此也！
单父人吕公善沛令，避仇从之客，因家沛焉。
沛中豪桀吏闻令有重客，皆往贺。
萧何为主吏，主进，令诸大夫曰： 进不满千钱，坐之堂下。
高祖为亭长，素易诸吏，乃绐为谒曰 贺钱万 ，实不持一钱。
谒入，吕公大惊，起，迎之门。
吕公者，好相人，见高祖状貌，因重敬之，引入坐。
萧何曰： 刘季固多大言，少成事。
高祖因狎侮诸客，遂坐上坐，无所诎。
酒阑，吕公因目固留高祖。
高祖竟酒，後。
吕公曰： 臣少好相人，相人多矣，无如季相，原季自爱。
臣有息女，原为季箕帚妾。
酒罢，吕媪怒吕公曰： 公始常欲奇此女，与贵人。
沛令善公，求之不与，何自妄许与刘季？
吕公曰： 此非兒女子所知也。
卒与刘季。
吕公女乃吕后也，生孝惠帝、鲁元公主。
translation: 
Gaozu was born in Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County. The surname is Liu and the courtesy name is Ji.
The father's name is Taigong, and the mother's name is Liu Yu.
Previously, Lady Liu had rested on the shore of the Great Lake and met God in her sleep.
At this time, there were thunder and lightning, and the sky was dark and the earth was dark. Grandpa Gong went to see Lady Liu and saw a dragon on her body. Later Lady Liu became pregnant and gave birth to Gaozu.
Gaozu had a high nose, a plump forehead like a dragon, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg.
He is kind and loving to others, likes to give charity, and is broad-minded.
They often have lofty ambitions and do not engage in ordinary people's production operations.
When he reached his prime, he tried to be an official and became the chief of the Sishui Pavilion. Every official in the court was familiar with him and was teased by him.
He likes drinking and women.
He often borrowed wine from Wang Lao and Wu Fu and slept drunk. Wu Fu and Wang Lao often saw a dragon above him and felt very strange.
Every time Emperor Gaozu came to buy wine and stayed in the hotel to drink, the wine in the hotel sold several times more than usual.
When a strange phenomenon was discovered, at the end of the year, these two hotels often wrote off the credit debts of Gao Zu.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang to perform corvées and allowed people to watch. When he saw Qin Shihuang, he sighed and said: Ah, a real man should look like this!
Lu Gong, a single father, was friendly with the magistrate of Peixian County. In order to avoid his enemies from visiting the magistrate's house, he moved his family to Peixian County.
When the outstanding officials in Pei County heard that the county magistrate had a distinguished guest, they all went to send gifts to congratulate him.
Xiao He is the chief official of the county and is in charge of collecting gifts. He said to all distinguished guests: "Those whose gifts are less than one thousand yuan should sit down in the hall."
When Emperor Gaozu was the chief of the pavilion, he always looked down upon the officials. So he deceitfully said "Congratulations on thousands of dollars" on his name card, but in fact he didn't take out any money.
When the famous assassin was handed in, Lu Gong was shocked, stood up, and went to the door to greet Gaozu.
Lu Gong was a good person, so when he saw Gaozu's appearance, he respected him especially and led him to sit in the hall.
Xiao He said: Liu Ji originally talked a lot but rarely achieved anything.
Emperor Gaozu then teased the guests in the hall and sat at the top of the table, showing no humility.
The banquet was about to end, and Duke Lu signaled Gao Zu not to leave with his eyes.
Gaozu finished his drink and stayed behind.
Lu Gong said: I have been good at meeting people since I was young. I have met many people, but none of them is as noble as you, Liu Ji. I hope you, Liu Ji, take care of yourself.
I have a biological daughter who is willing to be your wife, Liu Ji, who holds a broom and sweeps.
After the banquet, Mrs. Lu was angry with Mr. Lu and said: "At first you always wanted to make this daughter different and marry her to a noble man."
Pei Ling was friendly with you and asked to marry your daughter, but you didn't agree. Why did you arbitrarily decide to marry Liu Ji?
Lu Gong said: This is not what you women and children can understand.
So he married his daughter to Liu Ji.
The daughter of Duke Lu was Empress Lu, who gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
高祖为亭长时，常告归之田。
吕后与两子居田中耨，有一老父过请饮，吕后因餔之。
老父相吕后曰： 夫人天下贵人。
令相两子，见孝惠，曰： 夫人所以贵者，乃此男也。
相鲁元，亦皆贵。
老父已去，高祖適从旁舍来，吕后具言客有过，相我子母皆大贵。高祖问，曰： 未远。
乃追及，问老父。
老父曰： 乡者夫人婴兒皆似君，君相贵不可言。
高祖乃谢曰： 诚如父言，不敢忘德。
及高祖贵，遂不知老父处。
高祖为亭长，乃以竹皮为冠，令求盗之薛治之，时时冠之，及贵常冠，所谓 刘氏冠 乃是也。
高祖以亭长为县送徒郦山，徒多道亡。
自度比至皆亡之，到丰西泽中，止饮，夜乃解纵所送徒。
曰： 公等皆去，吾亦从此逝矣！
徒中壮士原从者十馀人。
高祖被酒，夜径泽中，令一人行前。
行前者还报曰： 前有大蛇当径，原还。
高祖醉，曰： 壮士行，何畏！
乃前，拔剑击斩蛇。
蛇遂分为两，径开。
行数里，醉，因卧。後人来至蛇所，有一老妪夜哭。
人问何哭，妪曰： 人杀吾子，故哭之。
人曰： 妪子何为见杀？
妪曰： 吾，白帝子也，化为蛇，当道，今为赤帝子斩之，故哭。
人乃以妪为不诚，欲告之，妪因忽不见。
後人至，高祖觉。
後人告高祖，高祖乃心独喜，自负。
诸从者日益畏之。
秦始皇帝常曰 东南有天子气 ，於是因东游以厌之。
高祖即自疑，亡匿，隐於芒、砀山泽岩石之间。
吕后与人俱求，常得之。
高祖怪问之。吕后曰： 季所居上常有云气，故从往常得季。
高祖心喜。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he once asked for leave to go home.
Queen Lu and her two children were weeding in the field. An old man passed by and asked for some water. Queen Lu gave him some food.
The old man met Empress Lu and said, "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to read the faces of the two children. The old man looked at Xiaohui and said: Madam, the reason why she is so noble is because of this child.
After seeing Lu Yuan, he was also a noble prime minister.
The old man had already left, and Gaozu happened to come to the field from someone else's house. Empress Lu told him that a guest was passing by and showed our faces to mother and son, saying that we would both be noble people in the future. Gaozu asked where my father was, and Empress Lu said: "It's not far away."
Gaozu caught up with the old man and asked him.
The old man said: I met my wife and children just now, and they are all similar to you. Your appearance is beyond words.
Emperor Gaozu thanked me and said: If it is true as my father said, I will never forget your kindness to me.
When Emperor Gaozu became famous, he didn't even know where the old man was.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he used bamboo skin as a hat. This hat was made by a thief he sent to Xue County, and he often wore it. When he became a distinguished person, he still often wore it. The so-called "Liu's crown" refers to this kind of hat.
Emperor Gaozu served as the pavilion chief and sent servants to Mount Li for the county. Many of the servants fled on the way.
He estimated that by the time they reached Lishan Mountain, everyone would have fled. He went to the swamp area west of Fengyi and stopped to drink. At night, Gaozu released the slaves he had escorted.
Emperor Gaozu said: "Everyone, let's go. I'm running away from now on!"
Among the servants, there were more than ten young and strong men who were willing to follow Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk, so he took a small road through the swamp that night and sent a man to explore the way.
The person who went out to explore the road came back and reported: There is a big snake lying across the road ahead. Please go back.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk and said: "When a hero walks, there is nothing to be afraid of!"
So he stepped forward, drew his sword and struck the snake, cutting it into two pieces, and the road was opened.
After walking for a few miles, he got drunk and lay down to sleep.
The people behind came to the place where the snake was killed and saw an old lady crying at night.
People asked why she was crying. The old lady said: Someone killed my son, so I cried.
People said again: Old lady, why was your son killed?
The old lady said: My son, the son of the White Emperor, turned into a snake and was lying on the road. Now he was killed by the son of the Red Emperor, so I cried.
People thought the old lady was dishonest and wanted to give her a hard time. The old lady suddenly disappeared.
Those who were left behind arrived at the place where Gaozu was resting, and Gaozu had already woken up.
They told Gaozu what had just happened. Gaozu was secretly happy and felt arrogant.
Those who followed him grew in awe of him.
Qin Shihuang often said that "there is the emperor's energy in the southeast", so he traveled to the east to suppress the emperor's energy in the southeast.
Emperor Gaozu suspected that the incident was related to him, so he ran away and hid among the rocks in the Mangshan and Dangshan areas.
Queen Lu searched with others, and often found Gaozu as soon as they arrived.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange and asked Empress Lu. Empress Lu said: There are often clouds where you are. If you look for the clouds, you can often be found.
Gaozu was very happy.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
沛中子弟或闻之，多欲附者矣。
秦二世元年秋，陈胜等起蕲，至陈而王，号为 张楚 。
诸郡县皆多杀其长吏以应陈涉。
沛令恐，欲以沛应涉。掾、主吏萧何、曹参乃曰： 君为秦吏，今欲背之，率沛子弟，恐不听。
原君召诸亡在外者，可得数百人，因劫众，众不敢不听。
乃令樊哙召刘季。刘季之众已数十百人矣。
於是樊哙从刘季来。
沛令後悔，恐其有变，乃闭城城守，欲诛萧、曹。
萧、曹恐，逾城保刘季。
刘季乃书帛射城上，谓沛父老曰： 天下苦秦久矣。
今父老虽为沛令守，诸侯并起，今屠沛。
沛今共诛令，择子弟可立者立之，以应诸侯，则家室完。
不然，父子俱屠，无为也。
父老乃率子弟共杀沛令，开城门迎刘季，欲以为沛令。
刘季曰： 天下方扰，诸侯并起，今置将不善，壹败涂地。
吾非敢自爱，恐能薄，不能完父兄子弟。
此大事，原更相推择可者。
萧、曹等皆文吏，自爱，恐事不就，後秦种族其家，尽让刘季。
诸父老皆曰： 平生所闻刘季诸珍怪，当贵，且卜筮之，莫如刘季最吉。
於是刘季数让。众莫敢为，乃立季为沛公。
祠黄帝，祭蚩尤於沛庭，而衅鼓旗，帜皆赤。
由所杀蛇白帝子，杀者赤帝子，故上赤。
於是少年豪吏如萧、曹、樊哙等皆为收沛子弟二三千人，攻胡陵、方与，还守丰。
秦二世二年，陈涉之将周章军西至戏而还。
燕、赵、齐、魏皆自立为王。
项氏起吴。
translation: 
When some of the children in Pei County heard about this, many wanted to join him.
In the autumn of the first year of Qin II, Chen Sheng and others revolted in Qixian County and established themselves as kings in Chenxian County, known as Zhang Chu.
Most of the counties and counties killed their chiefs in response to Chen Sheng.
The magistrate of Peixian County was frightened and wanted to respond to Chen Sheng with Peiju. The chief official Xiao He and the jailer Cao Shen said to him: As an official of the Qin Dynasty, you are now rebelling against Qin and leading the children of Peixian County. I am afraid they will not obey your orders.
I hope you can gather hundreds of people who are fleeing outside. Use this power to intimidate the masses, and they will not dare to disobey your orders.
The county magistrate sent Fan Kuai to summon Liu Ji. Liu Ji's team already numbered nearly a hundred people.
So Fan Kuai followed Liu Ji to Peixian County.
The magistrate of Peixian County regretted it again. Fearing that something might happen to Liu Ji, he closed the city gates and sent people to defend him, intending to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were frightened and climbed over the city wall to attach themselves to Liu Ji.
Liu Ji wrote a letter on silk and sent it to the city, telling the elders of Peixian County: The world has been suffering from the tyranny of the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
Now the elders are guarding the city for Pei Ling, but the princes from all over the world have revolted and want to massacre Pei County.
If the elders of Peixian County unite to kill Pei Ling and select the leader among their children who can be appointed as the leader to respond to the princes' army, then the lives of the whole family can be saved.
Otherwise, both father and son would be killed and their deaths would be meaningless.
The elders led their children to kill Pei Ling, opened the city gate, and welcomed Liu Ji, hoping to make him the magistrate of Pei County.
Liu Ji said: The world is in chaos, and all the princes are in rebellion. If the elected generals are not qualified, they will be completely defeated.
I am not begrudging my own life, but I am afraid that my talents are too weak to save my father, brothers and children.
This is a big deal, and I hope we can jointly elect someone who can do the job.
Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were civil servants who valued their wealth and life, and were afraid that the Qin Dynasty would exterminate their entire clans if the matter failed, so they all recommended Liu Ji.
The elders all said: We usually hear many strange things about Liu Ji. It seems that Liu Ji should be honored. And after divination, no one is more auspicious than Liu Ji.
At this time, Liu Ji repeatedly made concessions, but no one dared to take up the post. Finally, Liu Ji was appointed Duke of Pei.
In the courtyard of the Pei County Yamen, they offered sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor and Chi You, and used the blood of sacrifices to raise drum flags.
The flags are all red, because the snake Liu Ji killed was the son of the White Emperor, and the one who killed the snake was the son of the Red Emperor, so he respected red.
So the young men and powerful officials, such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and others, recruited soldiers for Pei Gong. They gathered two to three thousand people to attack Hu Ling and Fang Yu, and then returned to defend Fengyi.
In the second year of Qin II, General Chen Sheng led Zhou Zhang's army to the west to play in the water and return.
Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Wei all established themselves as kings.
Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu raised troops in Wu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
秦泗川监平将兵围丰，二日，出与战，破之。
命雍齿守丰，引兵之薛。
泗州守壮败於薛，走至戚，沛公左司马得泗川守壮，杀之。
沛公还军亢父，至方与，未战。
陈王使魏人周市略地。
周市使人谓雍齿曰： 丰，故梁徙也。
今魏地已定者数十城。齿今下魏，魏以齿为侯守丰。
不下，且屠丰。
雍齿雅不欲属沛公，及魏招之，即反为魏守丰。
沛公引兵攻丰，不能取。
沛公病，还之沛。
沛公怨雍齿与丰子弟叛之，闻东阳甯君、秦嘉立景驹为假王，在留，乃往从之，欲请兵以攻丰。
是时秦将章邯从陈，别将司马枿将兵北定楚地，屠相，至砀。
东阳甯君、沛公引兵西，与战萧西，不利。
还收兵聚留，引兵攻砀，三日乃取砀。
因收砀兵，得五六千人。攻下邑，拔之。
还军丰。
闻项梁在薛，从骑百馀往见之。
项梁益沛公卒五千人，五大夫将十人。
沛公还，引兵攻丰。
从项梁月馀，项羽已拔襄城还。
项梁尽召别将居薛。闻陈王定死，因立楚後怀王孙心为楚王，治盱台。
项梁号武信君。
居数月，北攻亢父，救东阿，破秦军。
齐军归，楚独追北，使沛公、项羽别攻城阳，屠之。
军濮阳之东，与秦军战，破之。
秦军复振，守濮阳，环水。
楚军去而攻定陶，定陶未下。
沛公与项羽西略地至雍丘之下，与秦军战，大破之，斩李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
项梁再破秦军，有骄色。
translation: 
Qin Ping, the governor of Sishui County, led his troops to surround Feng. Two days later, Peigong sent troops to fight and defeated the Qin army.
Duke Pei ordered Yong Chi to guard Fengyi and led his troops to Xue.
Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, was defeated in Xue and fled to Qi. Pei Gongzuo Sima captured Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, and killed him.
Pei Gong returned to the army to fight against his father. When he arrived, there was no fighting.
King Chen Sheng of Chen sent Wei people to Zhoushi to attack the city and seize the territory.
The envoy from Zhoushi said to Yong Chi: "Feng, it turns out that King Liang once moved here."
Now Wei has captured dozens of cities. If you, Yongchi, surrender to Wei, Wei will make you Yongchi a marquis and still garrison Fengyi.
If you don't surrender, Fengyi will be slaughtered with blood.
Yong Chi was originally very reluctant to submit to Pei Gong. When Wei Guo surrendered, he betrayed Pei Gong and defended Fengyi for Wei Guo.
Duke Pei led his troops to attack Feng, but failed to capture it.
Pei Gong fell ill and returned to Pei County.
Pei Gong resented that Yong Chi and Fengyi's children had betrayed him. When he heard that Dongyang Ningjun and Qin Jiali had made Jingju the false king and lived in Liu County, he attached himself to them and wanted to borrow troops to attack Fengyi.
At this time, Qin general Zhang Han was chasing King Chen's troops, while Sima Yi, the general of Sima Yi, led his army northward and captured Chu. They reached Xiangtu City and arrived at Dang County.
Dongyang Ningjun and Peigong led their troops to the west and fought with Sima Yi in the west of Xiao County, but they did not take advantage.
He returned to collect scattered soldiers, gathered in Liuxian County, and led troops to attack Dangxian. He captured Dangxian County in three days.
He collected troops from Dang County and obtained five to six thousand men. He attacked Xiayi and defeated them.
Return to Fengyi.
I heard that Xiang Liang was in Xue County, so he brought more than a hundred cavalry to see Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang assigned 5,000 additional soldiers to Peigong and ten generals at the level of five officials.
Duke Pei returned and led his troops to attack Feng.
Peigong followed Xiang Liang for more than a month, and Xiang Yu had already conquered Xiangcheng and returned.
Xiang Liang summoned all the generals to Xuexian County. When he heard that King Chen was indeed dead, he made Xin, a descendant of Chu State and the grandson of King Huai of Chu, king of Chu, and made Xutai his capital.
Xiang Liang was named Wu Xinjun.
After stopping for a few months, he went north to attack Kangfu, rescued Dong'a, and defeated the Qin army.
The Qi army returned to Qi, but the Chu army pursued the defeated soldiers alone. He sent Pei Gong and Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Chengyang and massacred the soldiers and civilians in the city.
Peigong and Xiang Yu garrisoned east of Puyang, fought with the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army.
The Qin army cheered up again, defended Puyang, and cut off the water.
The Chu army left and turned to attack Dingtao, but Dingtao was not captured.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu went west to capture the city. When they arrived at Yongqiu City, they fought with the Qin army, defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang, but Waihuang was not captured.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army again, looking proud.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
宋义谏，不听。
秦益章邯兵，夜衔枚击项梁，大破之定陶，项梁死。
沛公与项羽方攻陈留，闻项梁死，引兵与吕将军俱东。
吕臣军彭城东，项羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
章邯已破项梁军，则以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河，北击赵，大破之。
当是之时，赵歇为王，秦将王离围之钜鹿城，此所谓河北之军也。
秦二世三年，楚怀王见项梁军破，恐，徙盱台都彭城，并吕臣、项羽军自将之。
以沛公为砀郡长，封为武安侯，将砀郡兵。
封项羽为长安侯，号为鲁公。
吕臣为司徒，其父吕青为令尹。
赵数请救，怀王乃以宋义为上将军，项羽为次将，范增为末将，北救赵。
令沛公西略地入关。
与诸将约，先入定关中者王之。
当是时，秦兵彊，常乘胜逐北，诸将莫利先入关。
独项羽怨秦破项梁军，奋，原与沛公西入关。
怀王诸老将皆曰： 项羽为人僄悍猾贼。
项羽尝攻襄城，襄城无遗类，皆阬之，诸所过无不残灭。
且楚数进取，前陈王、项梁皆败。
不如更遣长者扶义而西，告谕秦父兄。
秦父兄苦其主久矣，今诚得长者往，毋侵暴，宜可下。
今项羽僄悍，今不可遣。
独沛公素宽大长者，可遣。
卒不许项羽，而遣沛公西略地，收陈王、项梁散卒。乃道砀至成阳，与杠里秦军夹壁，破二军。
楚军出兵击王离，大破之。
沛公引兵西，遇彭越昌邑，因与俱攻秦军，战不利。
还至栗，遇刚武侯，夺其军，可四千馀人，并之。
与魏将皇欣、魏申徒武蒲之军并攻昌邑，昌邑未拔。
translation: 
Song Yi warned him, but he didn't listen.
Qin sent troops to reinforce Zhang Han and secretly attacked Xiang Liang at night. They defeated Xiang Liang in Dingtao and died in the battle.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu were attacking Chenliu. When they heard that Xiang Liang was dead, they led their troops and marched eastward with General Lu.
Lu Chen was stationed to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu was stationed to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong was stationed in Dang.
Zhang Han had defeated Xiang Liang's army and thought that the enemies in Chu did not need to worry, so he crossed the Yellow River and attacked Zhao from the north, defeating the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king of Zhao, and Qin general Wang Li besieged Zhao Xie in Julu City. This is the so-called Hebei Army.
In the third year of Qin II, King Huai of Chu saw that Xiang Liang's army was defeated. He was frightened, moved away from Xutai, established his capital in Pengcheng, merged the armies of Lu Chen and Xiang Yu, and took command personally.
Peigong was appointed as the governor of Dang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, commanding the army of Dang County.
Xiang Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an and his title was Duke of Lu.
Lu Chen was appointed Situ, and his father Lu Qing was appointed Ling Yin.
Zhao requested rescue many times, so King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as his general, Xiang Yu as his second general, and Fan Zeng as his junior general, and went north to rescue Zhao.
He ordered Pei Gong to march west and invade Guanzhong.
An agreement was made with the generals: whoever conquers Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong.
At this time, the Qin army was strong and often took advantage of the victory to pursue, but the generals did not think it was advantageous to enter the pass first.
Only Xiang Yu hated Qin for defeating Xiang Liang's army, and was so angry that he was willing to enter the pass with Peigong west.
King Huai's veterans all said: Xiang Yu is agile but fierce, cunning and cruel.
Xiang Yu once attacked Xiangcheng, but no one was left alive in Xiangcheng. They were all buried alive. Wherever they passed, they were slaughtered and destroyed.
Moreover, the Chu army attacked and conquered many times, and King Chen and Xiang Liang failed before.
It is better to send another kind-hearted elder to march westward with the call of justice and explain the truth clearly to Qin's father and brothers.
Qin's father and brothers have suffered from their monarch's rule for a long time. Now if they can really get a generous elder to go to Guanzhong without bullying and tyranny, they should be able to win Guanzhong.
Now Xiang Yu is so fierce that he cannot be dispatched.
Only Pei Gong, who has always been a tolerant elder, can be dispatched.
In the end, King Huai did not agree to Xiang Yu's request and sent Peigong to the west to attack Qin. Collecting the scattered troops of King Chen and Xiang Liang, they passed through Dang and arrived at Chengyang. They faced off against the Qin army in Gangli and defeated the two Qin troops.
The Chu army sent troops to attack Wang Li and severely defeated his army.
Peigong led his troops to the west, met Peng Yue in Changyi, and joined him to attack the Qin army. The battle was not won.
Returning to Li County, I met Marquis Gangwu and captured his army, about 4,000 people, and merged them together.
Peigong, together with the troops of Wei General Huang Xin and Wei Shentu Wu Pu, jointly attacked Changyi, but Changyi was not captured.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
西过高阳。
郦食其监门，曰： 诸将过此者多，吾视沛公大人长者。
乃求见说沛公。
沛公方踞床，使两女子洗足。
郦生不拜，长揖，曰： 足下必欲诛无道秦，不宜踞见长者。
於是沛公起，摄衣谢之，延上坐。
食其说沛公袭陈留，得秦积粟。
乃以郦食其为广野君，郦商为将，将陈留兵，与偕攻开封，开封未拔。
西与秦将杨熊战白马，又战曲遇东，大破之。
杨熊走之荥阳，二世使使者斩以徇。
南攻颍阳，屠之。
因张良遂略韩地轘辕。
当是时，赵别将司马卬方欲渡河入关，沛公乃北攻平阴，绝河津。
南，战雒阳东，军不利，还至阳城，收军中马骑，与南阳守齮战犨东，破之。
略南阳郡，南阳守齮走，保城守宛。
沛公引兵过而西。
张良谏曰： 沛公虽欲急入关，秦兵尚众，距险。
今不下宛，宛从後击，彊秦在前，此危道也。
於是沛公乃夜引兵从他道还，更旗帜，黎明，围宛城三匝。
南阳守欲自刭。其舍人陈恢曰： 死未晚也。
乃逾城见沛公，曰： 臣闻足下约，先入咸阳者王之。
今足下留守宛。
宛，大郡之都也，连城数十，人民众，积蓄多，吏人自以为降必死，故皆坚守乘城。
今足下尽日止攻，士死伤者必多；引兵去宛，宛必随足下後：足下前则失咸阳之约，後又有彊宛之患。
为足下计，莫若约降，封其守，因使止守，引其甲卒与之西。
诸城未下者，闻声争开门而待，足下通行无所累。 沛公曰： 善。
乃以宛守为殷侯，封陈恢千户。
translation: 
Passing through Gaoyang on the way west.
Li Shiqi was the prison gate and said: "There are many generals passing by here. I think Pei Gong is a big man, with the demeanor of a kind and elder man."
So he went to seek an audience and lobby Pei Gong.
Peigong sat on the bed, stretched out his legs, and asked the two women to wash his feet.
Li Sheng did not bow down, but bowed deeply and said: "We must destroy the cruel and cruel Qin Dynasty with one step. We should not sit down with our legs stretched out to meet the elders."
So Pei Gong stood up, straightened his clothes, apologized to him, and asked him to take his seat.
Li Shiqi persuaded Peigong to attack Chenliu and obtain the grain and rice accumulated by Chenliu.
Pei Gong then appointed Li Shiqi as Lord of Guangye and Li Shang as general, led Chen Liu's army, and attacked Kaifeng together with Pei Gong, but Kaifeng was not captured.
Xiangxi fought with Qin general Yang Xiong at Baima, and then fought to the east of Quyu, defeating Yang Xiong's army.
Yang Xiong fled to Rongyang, and Qin II sent an envoy to behead him in public.
Peigong went south to attack Yingyang and massacred the city of Yingyang.
Relying on Zhang Liang, he captured the royal palace in South Korea.
At this time, Zhao general Sima Yin was about to cross the Yellow River and enter Hangu Pass. Peigong attacked north to defeat Pingyin and cut off the Yellow River ferry.
Heading south, they fought in the east of Luoyang, but the battle was unfavorable. After returning to Yangcheng, they gathered their cavalry and fought with the governor of Nanyang County in Guidong, defeating the Qin army.
After capturing the city of Nanyang County, the governor of Nanyang County fled and retreated to Wan County.
Duke Pei led his troops to bypass Wancheng and march westward.
Zhang Liangjin remonstrated and said: "Pei Gong, although you are eager to break into Hangu Pass, there are still many Qin soldiers and they are guarding the dangerous position."
If Wancheng is not captured now, the defenders of Wancheng will attack from behind and the powerful Qin army will block it from the front. This is a dangerous tactic.
So Pei Gong led his troops back from another road at night, changed the flag, and surrounded Wancheng on three levels at dawn.
The governor of Nanyang County wanted to commit suicide, but his bodyguard Chen Hui said: "It's not time to die yet."
He climbed over the city wall to see Pei Gong and said: I heard that I have accepted the agreement of King Huai of Chu to attack Xianyang's Chengwang Pass first.
Now I will stay in Wancheng.
Wancheng was the seat of a large county, with dozens of connected cities and a large number of people and sufficient food. The officials and people believed that surrender would definitely lead to death, so they all boarded the city to defend it.
If Shishi stayed here all day to attack the city, many soldiers would be killed or injured. If he led his troops to leave Wancheng, the defenders of Wancheng would definitely follow and pursue him. If you move forward, you will lose the promise of entering Xianyang first, and if you retreat, you will be troubled by the powerful Wancheng defenders.
For His Majesty's idea, it would be better to make a clear promise to surrender, grant him the title of Nanyang County Governor, let him stay behind, and lead the soldiers of Wancheng to march westward.
Many unconquered cities, hearing the news, rushed to open their city gates and wait for the next step, so that they could pass without hindrance. Pei Gong said: OK.
He made the governor of Nanyang County the Marquis of Yin and granted Chen Hui a thousand households.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鰓、襄侯王陵降西陵。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与皆，降析、郦。
遣魏人甯昌使秦，使者未来。
是时章邯已以军降项羽於赵矣。
初，项羽与宋义北救赵，及项羽杀宋义，代为上将军，诸将黥布皆属，破秦将王离军，降章邯，诸侯皆附。
及赵高已杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中。沛公以为诈，乃用张良计，使郦生、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利，因袭攻武关，破之。
又与秦军战於蓝田南，益张疑兵旗帜，诸所过毋得掠卤，秦人憙，秦军解，因大破之。
又战其北，大破之。
乘胜，遂破之。
汉元年十月，沛公兵遂先诸侯至霸上。
秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺符节，降轵道旁。
诸将或言诛秦王。
沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容；且人已服降，又杀之，不祥。
乃以秦王属吏，遂西入咸阳。
欲止宫休舍，樊哙、张良谏，乃封秦重宝财物府库，还军霸上。
召诸县父老豪桀曰： 父老苦秦苛法久矣，诽谤者族，偶语者弃巿。
吾与诸侯约，先入关者王之，吾当王关中。
与父老约，法三章耳：杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
馀悉除去秦法。
诸吏人皆案堵如故。
凡吾所以来，为父老除害，非有所侵暴，无恐！
且吾所以还军霸上，待诸侯至而定约束耳。
乃使人与秦吏行县乡邑，告谕之。
秦人大喜，争持牛羊酒食献飨军士。
沛公又让不受，曰： 仓粟多，非乏，不欲费人。
translation: 
When the troops are led westward, no one will fail to surrender.
Arriving at Danshui, Gaowu Houyi and Xianghou Wangling surrendered in Xiling.
When he returned to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Rong, and together with him, they forced Xixian and Lixian to surrender.
Ningchang of Wei was sent as an envoy to Qin Guanzhong, but the envoy did not come back.
By this time, Zhang Han had led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu in Zhao.
At first, Xiang Yu and Song Yi marched north to rescue Zhao. When Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, he replaced him as general. Many generals, such as Qing Bu, were subordinate to Xiang Yu. He defeated Qin general Wang Li's army and made Zhang Han surrender, and all the princes joined him.
When Zhao Gao had killed Qin II, he sent people to see Pei Gong and wanted to make an agreement to carve up Guanzhong and claim the throne. Pei Gong thought it was a fraud, so he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and sent Li Sheng and Lu Jia to lobby the Qin generals. They lured them with their own interests and took the opportunity to attack Wuguan and break the pass.
He also fought with the Qin army in the south of Lantian. He added more suspects and planted more flags. No looting was allowed in the places he passed. The people of Qin were very happy. The Qin army collapsed and the Qin army was defeated.
They fought again in the north of Lantian and defeated the Qin army again.
Taking advantage of the victory, he pursued and completely defeated the Qin army.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang before the princes.
The Prince of Qin rode on a plain carriage with a white horse, tied his neck with a ribbon, sealed the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
Some generals advocated killing the King of Qin.
Pei Gong said: King Huai of Chu sent me originally because I can be tolerant. Besides, it is unlucky to kill someone after they have already surrendered.
So he handed the King of Qin over to the officials and headed west into Xianyang.
Pei Gong wanted to stay in the palace to rest, but after being persuaded by Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang, he sealed off the valuable treasures, property and storehouses in the Qin Palace and returned to the army.
He summoned the elders and heroes from each county and said: "The elders have suffered from the harsh punishments of the Qin Dynasty for a long time. Those who slander the government will be exterminated, and those who gather to discuss will be beheaded in the streets."
I made an agreement with the princes that whoever enters Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong, and I should be crowned king in Guanzhong.
It was agreed with the elders that the law has only three chapters: the death penalty for murder, and the punishment for injury and robbery commensurate with the crime committed.
All other laws of the Qin Dynasty were abolished.
Officials and people should live in peace and harmony.
The reason why I am here is to eliminate harm for the elders. There will be no bullying or cruel behavior. Don't be afraid.
The reason why I returned to Junba was to wait for the princes to arrive and formulate a common agreement.
Peigong sent people and officials from the Qin Dynasty to patrol the county and countryside to inform the people.
The people of Qin were very happy and rushed to entertain the soldiers with cattle and sheep, wine and food.
Pei Gong refused to accept it again, saying: "There is a lot of grain in the warehouse, there is no shortage, and I don't want to waste it on the people."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
人又益喜，唯恐沛公不为秦王。
或说沛公曰： 秦富十倍天下，地形彊。
今闻章邯降项羽，项羽乃号为雍王，王关中。
今则来，沛公恐不得有此。
可急使兵守函谷关，无内诸侯军，稍徵关中兵以自益，距之。
沛公然其计，从之。
十一月中，项羽果率诸侯兵西，欲入关，关门闭。
闻沛公已定关中，大怒，使黥布等攻破函谷关。
十二月中，遂至戏。
沛公左司马曹无伤闻项王怒，欲攻沛公，使人言项羽曰： 沛公欲王关中，令子婴为相，珍宝尽有之。
欲以求封。
亚父劝项羽击沛公。
方飨士，旦日合战。
是时项羽兵四十万，号百万。
沛公兵十万，号二十万，力不敌。
会项伯欲活张良，夜往见良，因以文谕项羽，项羽乃止。
沛公从百馀骑，驱之鸿门，见谢项羽。
项羽曰： 此沛公左司马曹无伤言之。
不然，籍何以生此！
沛公以樊哙、张良故，得解归。
归，立诛曹无伤。
项羽遂西，屠烧咸阳秦宫室，所过无不残破。
秦人大失望，然恐，不敢不服耳。
项羽使人还报怀王。
怀王曰： 如约。
项羽怨怀王不肯令与沛公俱西入关，而北救赵，後天下约。乃曰： 怀王者，吾家项梁所立耳，非有功伐，何以得主约！
本定天下，诸将及籍也。
乃详尊怀王为义帝，实不用其命。
正月，项羽自立为西楚霸王，王梁、楚地九郡，都彭城。
负约，更立沛公为汉王，王巴、蜀、汉中，都南郑。
三分关中，立秦三将：章邯为雍王，都废丘；司马欣为塞王，都栎阳；董翳为翟王，都高奴。
楚将瑕丘申阳为河南王，都洛阳。
赵将司马卬为殷王，都朝歌。
translation: 
The people were even more happy, fearing that Pei Gong would not become King of Qin.
Someone advised Pei Gong: Qin is ten times richer than the world, and its terrain is good.
Now that he heard that Zhang Han had surrendered to Xiang Yu, Xiang Yu gave him the title of King Yong and declared him king in Guanzhong.
Now that he is about to come to Guanzhong to join the kingdom, you, Pei Gong, may not be able to occupy this place.
We should quickly send troops to guard Hangu Pass to prevent the princes' troops from entering, and gradually recruit Guanzhong troops to strengthen our strength and resist the princes' troops.
Pei Gong agreed with his plan and followed it.
In November, Xiang Yu led the army of the princes to the west and wanted to enter the pass, but the gate was closed.
Hearing that Pei Gong had pacified Guanzhong, he was furious and sent Yingbu and others to attack Hangu Pass.
In December, it’s time to play in the water.
Cao Wushang, the left Sima of Pei Gong, heard that King Xiang was angry and wanted to attack Pei Gong. He sent someone to tell Xiang Yu: Pei Gong wants to claim the title of king of Guanzhong and make Ziying the prime minister. He has all the treasures.
I plan to get a reward for this.
Yafu advised Xiang Yu to attack Peigong.
At that time, Xiang Yu feasted his soldiers and prepared for the battle tomorrow.
At this time, Xiang Yu had 400,000 troops, which was said to be one million.
Pei Gong had 100,000 troops, which he claimed were 200,000, but he was no match for Xiang Yu.
It happened that Xiang Bo wanted to save Zhang Liang and went to see him at night. He persuaded Xiang Yu with reason, and Xiang Yu canceled his plan to attack Peigong.
Pei Gong brought more than a hundred cavalry and rode to Hongmen to see Xiang Yu and express his apology.
Xiang Yu said: This is what your Pei Gongzuo Sima Cao Wushang told me.
Otherwise, why would I, Xiang Yu, do such a thing?
Peigong was able to escape and return because of Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang.
After returning, he immediately killed Cao Wushang.
Xiang Yu marched westward, slaughtering innocent people and burning the Qin Palace in Xianyang. Everywhere he passed was destroyed and destroyed.
The people of Qin were greatly disappointed, but they were afraid and did not dare to disobey.
Xiang Yu sent people back to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu said: We must follow the original agreement.
Xiang Yu resented that King Huai of Chu refused to let him enter the Pass with Pei Gong from the west, but sent him north to rescue Zhao. He fell behind in the agreement among the princes of the world to compete for the king of Guanzhong.
Originally, it was the generals and I, Xiang Ji, who stabilized the world.
He pretended to respect King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor, but actually did not obey his orders.
In the first month of the first month, Xiang Yu established himself as the overlord of Western Chu, proclaimed himself king in nine counties in the Liang and Chu areas, and established his capital in Pengcheng.
He broke the original agreement and made Pei Gong the king of Han Dynasty. He became the king of Ba, Shu and Hanzhong and established Nanzheng as his capital.
Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and three generals of the Qin Dynasty were appointed: Zhang Han was the King of Yong and his capital was Feiqiu; Sima Xin was the King of Sai and his capital was Yueyang; Dong Yi was the King of Zhai and his capital was Gaonu.
He granted Chu general Xiaqiu Shenyang the title of King of Henan and established his capital in Luoyang.
The Zhao general Sima Yin was granted the title of King of Yin, and Chaoge was established as the capital.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
赵王歇徙王代。
赵相张耳为常山王，都襄国。
当阳君黥布为九江王，都六。
怀王柱国共敖为临江王，都江陵。
番君吴芮为衡山王，都邾。
燕将臧荼为燕王，都蓟。
故燕王韩广徙王辽东。
广不听，臧荼攻杀之无终。
封成安君陈馀河间三县，居南皮。
封梅鋗十万户。
四月，兵罢戏下，诸侯各就国。
汉王之国，项王使卒三万人从，楚与诸侯之慕从者数万人，从杜南入蚀中。
去辄烧绝栈道，以备诸侯盗兵袭之，亦示项羽无东意。
至南郑，诸将及士卒多道亡归，士卒皆歌思东归。
韩信说汉王曰： 项羽王诸将之有功者，而王独居南郑，是迁也。
军吏士卒皆山东之人也，日夜跂而望归，及其锋而用之，可以有大功。
天下已定，人皆自宁，不可复用。
不如决策东乡，争权天下。
项羽出关，使人徙义帝。
曰： 古之帝者地方千里，必居上游。
乃使使徙义帝长沙郴县，趣义帝行，群臣稍倍叛之，乃阴令衡山王、临江王击之，杀义帝江南。
项羽怨田荣，立齐将田都为齐王。田荣怒，因自立为齐王，杀田都而反楚；予彭越将军印，令反梁地。
楚令萧公角击彭越，彭越大破之。
陈馀怨项羽之弗王己也，令夏说说田荣，请兵击张耳。
齐予陈馀兵，击破常山王张耳，张耳亡归汉。
迎赵王歇於代，复立为赵王。赵王因立陈馀为代王。
项羽大怒，北击齐。
八月，汉王用韩信之计，从故道还，袭雍王章邯。
邯迎击汉陈仓，雍兵败，还走；止战好畤，又复败，走废丘。
汉王遂定雍地。
东至咸阳，引兵围雍王废丘，而遣诸将略定陇西、北地、上郡。
令将军薛欧、王吸出武关，因王陵兵南阳，以迎太公、吕后於沛。
translation: 
King Xie of Zhao moved to another place and became king.
Zhang Er, the general of Zhao, was granted the title of King of Changshan and established the capital of Xiangguo.
He granted Dangyang Lord Yingbu the title of King of Jiujiang and established six counties as his capital.
King Huai of Chu named Zhu Guo Gong Ao the title of King of Linjiang and established his capital in Jiangling.
Wu Rui of Fan County was granted the title of King of Hengshan and Zhu County was established as his capital.
Zang Tu, the general of Yan, was made King of Yan and his capital was established in Ji County.
Han Guang, the original king of Yan, moved to Liaodong and became king.
Han Guang refused to obey, and Zang Tu attacked and killed Han Guang without end.
He was granted the title of Anjun, Chenyu, and three counties in Hejian, and lived in Nanpi.
One hundred thousand households were granted to Mei Yi.
In April, Xiang Yujing dismissed his troops and dispersed, and the princes returned to their feudal states.
When the King of Han returned to his country, King Xiang sent 30,000 troops to follow him. The soldiers of Chu and other vassal states admired the King of Han and followed him with tens of thousands of soldiers.
They entered Eclipse from the south of Du County. After leaving, they burned down the plank road to prevent attacks by the princes' armies and bandits. They also expressed to Xiang Yu that they had no intention of marching eastward.
When they arrived at Nanzheng, many of the generals and soldiers fled back on the way. The soldiers all sang songs and wanted to return to the east.
Han Xin advised the King of Han: Xiang Yu made the meritorious generals kings, while the king was made alone in Nanzheng. This was actually demoting him.
The officers and soldiers in the army were all from the east of Mount Laoshan, and they were eager to return home day and night. If you take advantage of them when they are strong, you can achieve great success.
When the world is at peace and everyone naturally feels at ease, it can no longer be exploited.
It is better to decide to march eastward and fight for the power of the world.
Xiang Yu left Hangu Pass and sent people to move to Emperor Yi.
Said: In ancient times, emperors ruled over thousands of miles of land and had to live upstream.
He sent envoys to move Emperor Yi to Chen County in Changsha and urged him to leave quickly. The ministers gradually betrayed Emperor Yi, so Xiang Yu secretly asked the kings of Hengshan and Linjiang to attack him and kill Emperor Yi in the south of the Yangtze River.
Xiang Yu resented Tian Rong and made Qi general Tian Du the king of Qi. Tian Rong was angry and proclaimed himself king of Qi. He killed Tian Du and rebelled against Xiang Chu. He gave the general's seal to Peng Yue and asked him to raise troops in Liang to rebel against Chu.
Chu sent Xiao Gongjiao to attack Peng Yue, and Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao.
Chen Yu resented Xiang Yu for not making him king, so he sent Xia Sui to lobby Tian Rong and borrow troops to attack Zhang Er.
Qi lent troops to Chen Yu and defeated Zhang Er, king of Changshan. Zhang Er fled and joined the king of Han.
Chen Yu took King Zhao Xie back from Dai and established him as King of Zhao. King Zhao then named Chen Yu the Dai King.
Xiang Yu was furious and sent troops north to attack them.
In August, the King of Han used Han Xin's strategy to return from the old route and attack King Yong Zhanghan.
Zhang Han met the Han army in Chencang, but King Yong was defeated and retreated. He stopped to engage in battle at Haozhen, but failed again and fled to Feiqiu.
The king of Han immediately pacified Yongdi.
He went east to Xianyang, led his army to besiege King Yong in Feiqiu, and sent generals to capture Longxi, Beidi and Shangjun.
He sent generals Xue Ou and Wang Xiu out of Wuguan, and with the help of Wang Ling's troops stationed in Nanyang, they met the Taigong and Empress Lu in Peixian County.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
楚闻之，发兵距之阳夏，不得前。
令故吴令郑昌为韩王，距汉兵。
二年，汉王东略地，塞王欣、翟王翳、河南王申阳皆降。
韩王昌不听，使韩信击破之。
於是置陇西、北地、上郡、渭南、河上、中地郡；关外置河南郡。
更立韩太尉信为韩王。
诸将以万人若以一郡降者，封万户。缮治河上塞。
诸故秦苑囿园池，皆令人得田之，正月，虏雍王弟章平。
大赦罪人。
汉王之出关至陕，抚关外父老，还，张耳来见，汉王厚遇之。
二月，令除秦社稷，更立汉社稷。
三月，汉王从临晋渡，魏王豹将兵从。下河内，虏殷王，置河内郡。
南渡平阴津，至雒阳。
新城三老董公遮说汉王以义帝死故。
汉王闻之，袒而大哭。
遂为义帝发丧，临三日。
发使者告诸侯曰： 天下共立义帝，北面事之。
今项羽放杀义帝於江南，大逆无道。
寡人亲为发丧，诸侯皆缟素。
悉发关内兵，收三河士，南浮江汉以下，原从诸侯王击楚之杀义帝者。
是时项王北击齐，田荣与战城阳。
田荣败，走平原，平原民杀之。齐皆降楚。
楚因焚烧其城郭，系虏其子女。齐人叛之。
田荣弟横立荣子广为齐王，齐王反楚城阳。
项羽虽闻汉东，既已连齐兵，欲遂破之而击汉。
汉王以故得劫五诸侯兵，遂入彭城。
项羽闻之，乃引兵去齐，从鲁出胡陵，至萧，与汉大战彭城灵壁东睢水上，大破汉军，多杀士卒，睢水为之不流。
乃取汉王父母妻子於沛，置之军中以为质。
translation: 
When Chu heard the news, he sent troops to block Yangxia so that the Han army could not advance.
Chu made Zheng Chang, the former magistrate of Wu County, the king of Han to resist the Han army.
In the second year, the king of Han went east to capture the city. Sima Xin, king of Sai, Dong Yi, king of Zhai, and Shenyang, king of Henan, all surrendered.
King Zheng Chang of Han was unwilling to surrender, so the King of Han sent Han Xin to defeat him.
Therefore, Longxi, Beidi, Shangjun, Weinan, Heshang, and Zhongdi counties were established, and Henan County was established outside the pass.
Han Taiweixin was renamed King of Han.
Among the generals, if 10,000 people or a county surrendered, they would be granted to 10,000 households and the Great Wall in the county on the river would be repaired.
The original Qin Dynasty gardens and ponds everywhere were cultivated and cultivated by the people. In the first month of the first month, Zhang Ping, the younger brother of King Yong, was captured.
Grant amnesty to the guilty.
The King of Han left Hangu Pass and arrived in Shaanxi County to comfort the elders outside the Pass. After returning, Zhang Er came to see him and the King of Han gave him generous treatment.
In February, he ordered the Qin State to be abolished and the Han State to be established instead.
In March, the King of Han crossed the Yellow River from Linjin Pass. King Bao of Wei led his troops to capture Hanoi, captured King Yin and established Hanoi County.
Cross Pingyinjin to the south and reach Luoyang.
Dong Gong, the third old man in Xincheng, stopped the King of Han and told him about the death of Emperor Yi.
When the king of Han heard this, he exposed his left arm and cried loudly.
So he mourned Emperor Yi and mourned for three days.
An envoy was sent to inform the princes: "The whole world will support the establishment of the Righteous Emperor and declare vassal status to him in the north."
Now Xiang Yu has exiled and killed Emperor Yi in the south of the Yangtze River, which is a treasonous act.
I will mourn him personally, and all the princes will wear white mourning clothes.
Mobilize all the troops in the pass, recruit soldiers from the three counties of Henan, Hedong, and Hanoi, and go south along the Yangtze River and Han River. Those who are willing to follow the princes and kings to attack the Chu Kingdom and kill the Yi Emperor.
At that time, King Xiang went north to attack Qi State, and Tian Rong fought with him in Chengyang.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to Pingyuan. The people in Pingyuan killed him, and the whole country surrendered to Chu.
The Chu soldiers burned the Qi people's walls and took their children captive, and the Qi people rebelled against Chu.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng made Tian Rong's son Tian Guang the king of Qi, and the king of Qi rebelled against Chu in Chengyang.
Although Xiang Yu heard that the Han army was advancing eastward, since he had already fought with the Qi army, he wanted to defeat the Qi army and then attack the Han army.
The king of Han took advantage of this opportunity to rob the troops of the five princes and entered Pengcheng.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he led his troops to leave Qi and left Huling from Lu. They arrived at Xiao County and fought fiercely with the Han army on the Sui River east of Lingbi in Pengcheng. They defeated the Han army and killed many soldiers, so that the Sui River could no longer flow.
The Chu army captured the parents and wives of the King of Han from Pei County and held them hostage in the army.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
当是时，诸侯见楚彊汉败，还皆去汉复为楚。塞王欣亡入楚。
吕后兄周吕侯为汉将兵，居下邑。
汉王从之，稍收士卒，军砀。
汉王乃西过梁地，至虞。使谒者随何之九江王布所，曰： 公能令布举兵叛楚，项羽必留击之。
得留数月，吾取天下必矣。
随何往说九江王布，布果背楚。楚使龙且往击之。
汉王之败彭城而西，行使人求家室，家室亦亡，不相得。
败後乃独得孝惠，六月，立为太子，大赦罪人。
令太子守栎阳，诸侯子在关中者皆集栎阳为卫。
引水灌废丘，废丘降，章邯自杀。
更名废丘为槐里。
於是令祠官祀天地四方上帝山川，以时祀之。
兴关内卒乘塞。
是时九江王布与龙且战，不胜，与随何间行归汉。
汉王稍收士卒，与诸将及关中卒益出，是以兵大振荥阳，破楚京、索间。
三年，魏王豹谒归视亲疾，至即绝河津，反为楚。
汉王使郦生说豹，豹不听。
汉王遣将军韩信击，大破之，虏豹。遂定魏地，置三郡，曰河东、太原、上党。
汉王乃令张耳与韩信遂东下井陉击赵，斩陈馀、赵王歇。
其明年，立张耳为赵王。
汉王军荥阳南，筑甬道属之河，以取敖仓。
与项羽相距岁馀。
项羽数侵夺汉甬道，汉军乏食，遂围汉王。
汉王请和，割荥阳以西者为汉。
项王不听。
汉王患之，乃用陈平之计，予陈平金四万斤，以间疏楚君臣。
於是项羽乃疑亚父。
亚父是时劝项羽遂下荥阳，及其见疑，乃怒，辞老，原赐骸骨归卒伍，未至彭城而死。
translation: 
At this time, when the princes saw that the Chu army was strong and the Han army was defeated, they all left Han and returned to Chu. Sima Xin, the king of Sai, also fled to Chu.
Queen Lu's brother Zhou Luhou led an army for the Han and was stationed in Xiayi.
When the King of Han came to him, he gradually gathered soldiers and garrisoned them in Dang County.
The King of Han traveled westward through Liang and arrived at Yu County. He sent an envoy to follow Jiujiang King Yingbu. The King of Han said: If you can make Yingbu raise his troops to rebel against Chu, Xiang Yu will definitely stay and attack him.
If I can stay for a few months, I will surely conquer the world.
Suihe went to persuade Jiujiang King Yingbu, and Yingbu betrayed Chu. Chu sent Long Qie to attack him.
After the King of Han defeated Pengcheng, he retreated westward. During the march, he sent people to look for his family members, but they also fled and did not meet each other.
After the defeat, only Emperor Xiaohui was found. In June, he was made crown prince and granted amnesty to sinners.
The prince was ordered to garrison in Yueyang, and all the princes and people in Guanzhong gathered in Yueyang to guard.
Water was diverted to Feiqiu, but Feiqiu surrendered and Zhang Han committed suicide.
Renamed Feiqiu Huaili.
So he ordered the ancestral officials to offer sacrifices to heaven, earth, the four directions, God, mountains and rivers, and then offer sacrifices on time.
Soldiers from within the customs were recruited to the city to guard the border fortress.
At this time, King Yingbu of Jiujiang fought against Long Qie, but failed to win, so He Suihe sneaked back to Han Dynasty.
The King of Han gradually recruited some soldiers, and with the reinforcements of various generals and Guanzhong soldiers, the army was greatly strengthened in Xingyang, and the Chu army was defeated between Jing and Suo.
Three years later, King Bao of Wei asked for leave to go back to inspect his parents' illness. When he arrived in Wei, he cut off the crossing of the Yellow River and rebelled against the Han and returned to Chu.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to persuade Wei Bao, but Wei Bao refused to listen.
The King of Han sent general Han Xin to attack Wei Bao, defeated the Wei army and captured Wei Bao. He then pacified Wei and established three counties named Hedong, Taiyuan and Shangdang.
The king of Han ordered Zhang Er and Han Xin to march eastward to Jingxing, attack Zhao, and kill Chen Yu and Zhao Wangxie.
The next year, Zhang Er was granted the title of King of Zhao.
The King of Han stationed his army south of Xingyang and built a corridor to connect it to the Yellow River in order to access Aocang's grain.
The confrontation with Xiang Yu lasted for more than a year.
Xiang Yu captured the corridors of the Han army many times. The Han army was short of food, so Xiang Yu besieged the king of Han.
The king of Han asked for peace and divided the land west of Xingyang into Han Dynasty.
King Xiang did not agree.
The King of Han was worried, so he adopted Chen Ping's strategy and gave Chen Ping 40,000 catties of gold to drive a wedge between the kings and ministers of Chu.
So Xiang Yu became suspicious of Yafu.
At this time, Yafu persuaded Xiang Yu to take advantage of the situation and capture Xingyang. When he found out that he had been suspected, he became very angry and asked to beg to retire and return to his hometown to become a common man, citing his old age.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
汉军绝食，乃夜出女子东门二千馀人，被甲，楚因四面击之。
将军纪信乃乘王驾，诈为汉王，诳楚，楚皆呼万岁，之城东观，以故汉王得与数十骑出西门遁。
令御史大夫周苛、魏豹、枞公守荥阳。诸将卒不能从者，尽在城中。
周苛、枞公相谓曰： 反国之王，难与守城。
因杀魏豹。
汉王之出荥阳入关，收兵欲复东。
袁生说汉王曰： 汉与楚相距荥阳数岁，汉常困。
原君王出武关，项羽必引兵南走，王深壁，令荥阳成皋间且得休。
使韩信等辑河北赵地，连燕齐，君王乃复走荥阳，未晚也。
如此，则楚所备者多，力分，汉得休，复与之战，破楚必矣。
汉王从其计，出军宛叶间，与黥布行收兵。
项羽闻汉王在宛，果引兵南。
汉王坚壁不与战。
是时彭越渡睢水，与项声、薛公战下邳，彭越大破楚军。
项羽乃引兵东击彭越。汉王亦引兵北军成皋。
项羽已破走彭越，闻汉王复军成皋，乃复引兵西，拔荥阳，诛周苛、枞公，而虏韩王信，遂围成皋。
汉王跳，独与滕公共车出成皋玉门，北渡河，驰宿脩武。
自称使者，晨驰入张耳、韩信壁，而夺之军。乃使张耳北益收兵赵地，使韩信东击齐。
汉王得韩信军，则复振。
引兵临河，南飨军小脩武南，欲复战。
郎中郑忠乃说止汉王，使高垒深堑，勿与战。
汉王听其计，使卢绾、刘贾将卒二万人，骑数百，渡白马津，入楚地，与彭越复击破楚军燕郭西，遂复下梁地十馀城。
淮阴已受命东，未渡平原。
汉王使郦生往说齐王田广，广叛楚，与汉和，共击项羽。
韩信用蒯通计，遂袭破齐。
齐王烹郦生，东走高密。
项羽闻韩信已举河北兵破齐、赵，且欲击楚，则使龙且、周兰往击之。
韩信与战，骑将灌婴击，大破楚军，杀龙且。
齐王广奔彭越。
当此时，彭越将兵居梁地，往来苦楚兵，绝其粮食。
四年，项羽乃谓海春侯大司马曹咎曰： 谨守成皋。
若汉挑战，慎勿与战，无令得东而已。
我十五日必定梁地，复从将军。
乃行击陈留、外黄、睢阳，下之。
汉果数挑楚军，楚军不出，使人辱之五六日，大司马怒，度兵汜水。
士卒半渡，汉击之，大破楚军，尽得楚国金玉货赂。
大司马咎、长史欣皆自刭汜水上。
项羽至睢阳，闻海春侯破，乃引兵还。
汉军方围锺离眜於荥阳东，项羽至，尽走险阻。
韩信已破齐，使人言曰： 齐边楚，权轻，不为假王，恐不能安齐。
汉王欲攻之。
留侯曰： 不如因而立之，使自为守。
乃遣张良操印绶立韩信为齐王。
项羽闻龙且军破，则恐，使盱台人武涉往说韩信。
韩信不听。
楚汉久相持未决，丁壮苦军旅，老弱罢转饟。
汉王项羽相与临广武之间而语。
项羽欲与汉王独身挑战。
translation: 
Yafu died before reaching Pengcheng. The Han army was short of food, so they released more than 2,000 women from the east gate at night, wearing armor, and the Chu army surrounded them on all sides.
General Ji Xin rode in the King of Han's chariot and disguised himself as the King of Han to deceive the Chu army. The Chu army all shouted long live and rushed to the east of the city to watch, so the King of Han was able to escape out of the west gate with dozens of cavalry.
The King of Han ordered the imperial censors Zhou Ke, Wei Bao, and Song Gong to stay in Xingyang. The generals and soldiers who could not follow him stayed in the city.
Zhou Ke and Song Gong discussed it and said: It is difficult for Wei Bao, a traitorous king, to defend the city together with him.
So Wei Bao was killed.
The king of Han escaped from Xingyang and entered Hangu Pass to collect soldiers, hoping to march eastward again.
Yuan Sheng advised the King of Han: Han and Chu had been at war in Xingyang for several years, and the Han army was often in difficult situations.
I hope that when the king leaves Wuguan, Xiang Yu will surely lead his troops to the south, and that the king will have a deep ditch and a high base to allow rest between Xingyang and Chenggao.
It is not too late to send Han Xin and others to secure Zhao's territory north of the Yellow River and unite with Yan and Qi. It will not be too late for the king to go to Xingyang again.
In this way, the Chu army is fortified in many directions and its forces are dispersed. The Han army can rest and reorganize. If it fights against the Chu army again, it will definitely be able to defeat the Chu army.
The king of Han adopted his strategy and sent troops between Wan and Ye counties, and together with Yingbu gathered troops during the march.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han was in Wan County, so he led his troops southward.
The king of Han stood firm and refused to fight with him.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River and fought with Xiang Sheng and Xue Gong in Xiapi. Peng Yue defeated the Chu army.
So Xiang Yu led his army to the east to attack Peng Yue, and the king of Han also led his troops to the north to garrison Chenggao.
Xiang Yu had already won the victory and drove away Peng Yue. When he learned that the Han army was stationed in Chenggao again, he led his troops to the west and conquered Xingyang. He killed Zhou Ke and Song Gong, captured Han Wangxin, and then besieged Chenggao.
The King of Han fled, and alone and with Teng Gong in a carriage, they left the Yumen of Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River to the north, and rushed to Xiuwu to spend the night.
Claiming to be an envoy, he rushed into Zhang Er and Han Xin's camp in the morning and captured their troops. He then sent Zhang Er to Zhao in the north to gather more troops, and Han Xin to attack Qi eastward.
The king of Han got Han Xin's army, and his military power was revived.
He led his army to the bank of the Yellow River and marched south. He fed and drank the soldiers south of Xiaoxiuwu, intending to fight Xiang Yu again.
The doctor Zheng Zhong dissuaded the King of Han and told him not to fight with Xiang Yu.
The King of Han adopted Zheng Zhong's strategy and sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to lead 20,000 troops and hundreds of knights across Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They and Peng Yue defeated the Chu army in the west of Yan County, and then captured more than ten cities in Liang.
The Marquis of Huaiyin had accepted the order to march eastward and did not cross the Yellow River in the plains.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to persuade Qi Wang Tian Guang. Tian Guang betrayed Chu, made peace with Han, and attacked Xiang Yu together.
Han Xin adopted Kuai Tong's strategy and launched a surprise attack, defeating Qi.
King Peng of Qi killed Li Sheng and fled eastward to Gaomi.
Xiang Yu heard that Han Xin had used all the troops north of the Yellow River to defeat Qi and Zhao, and was about to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie and Zhou Lan to stop the attack.
Han Xin fought with Chu, and the cavalry general Guan Ying cooperated to attack, defeated the Chu army, and killed Long Qie.
King Tian Guang of Qi defected to Peng Yue.
At this time, Peng Yue led his troops to station in Liang, harassing the Chu army and cutting off its food.
In the fourth year, Xiang Yu said to Cao Jiu, the Grand Sima of Haichunhou: Guard Chenggao carefully.
If the Han army challenges, be careful. Don't accept the challenge, just don't let the Han army advance eastward.
I will definitely pacify Liang in fifteen days and then meet with the general.
So he marched to attack Chenliu, Waihuang, and Suiyang, and captured them all.
As expected, the Han army repeatedly challenged the Chu army, but the Chu army refused to fight. The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army for five or six days. The great Sima was very angry and ordered the soldiers to cross the Si River.
When the soldiers were halfway across, the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army, and captured all the gold and jade treasures of Chu.
Both the Grand Sima Cao Jiu and the Chief Sima Xin committed suicide on Si River.
Xiang Yu arrived at Suiyang and heard that Haichunhou was defeated, so he led his troops back.
The Han army was besieging Zhongli Huang in the east of Xingyang. As soon as Xiang Yu arrived, they all retreated to the dangerous area.
Han Xin had defeated the state of Qi and sent people to tell the king of Han: Qi is close to the state of Chu. If the power of Qi is too small, and if we don't establish a temporary acting king, we may not be able to stabilize Qi.
The king of Han wanted to attack Han Xin.
Liu Hou said: It is better to make him the king and let him defend the whole land by himself.
The king of Han then sent Zhang Liang with a seal and ribbon to establish Han Xin as King of Qi.
Xiang Yu was frightened when he heard that Long Qie's army was defeated and sent Wu She from Xutai to persuade Han Xin.
Han Xin refused to obey.
Chu and Han were in a stalemate for a long time, with the outcome unresolved. The young and strong were tired of serving as soldiers, and the old and weak were tired of transporting grain.
The King of Han and Xiang Yu stood on both sides of Guangwu Stream and talked.
Xiang Yu wanted to challenge the King of Han alone.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
汉王数项羽曰： 始与项羽俱受命怀王，曰先入定关中者王之，项羽负约，王我於蜀汉，罪一。
秦项羽矫杀卿子冠军而自尊，罪二。
项羽已救赵，当还报，而擅劫诸侯兵入关，罪三。
怀王约入秦无暴掠，项羽烧秦宫室，掘始皇帝冢，私收其财物，罪四。
又彊杀秦降王子婴，罪五。
诈阬秦子弟新安二十万，王其将，罪六。
项羽皆王诸将善地，而徙逐故主，令臣下争叛逆，罪七。
项羽出逐义帝彭城，自都之，夺韩王地，并王梁楚，多自予，罪八。
项羽使人阴弑义帝江南，罪九。
夫为人臣而弑其主，杀已降，为政不平，主约不信，天下所不容，大逆无道，罪十也。
吾以义兵从诸侯诛残贼，使刑馀罪人击杀项羽，何苦乃与公挑战！
项羽大怒，伏弩射中汉王。
汉王伤匈，乃扪足曰： 虏中吾指！
汉王病创卧，张良彊请汉王起行劳军，以安士卒，毋令楚乘胜於汉。
汉王出行军，病甚，因驰入成皋。
病愈，西入关，至栎阳，存问父老，置酒，枭故塞王欣头栎阳市。
留四日，复如军，军广武。
关中兵益出。
当此时，彭越将兵居梁地，往来苦楚兵，绝其粮食。
田横往从之。
项羽数击彭越等，齐王信又进击楚。
项羽恐，乃与汉王约，中分天下，割鸿沟而西者为汉，鸿沟而东者为楚。
项王归汉王父母妻子，军中皆呼万岁，乃归而别去。
项羽解而东归。
汉王欲引而西归，用留侯、陈平计，乃进兵追项羽，至阳夏南止军，与齐王信、建成侯彭越期会而击楚军。
至固陵，不会。
楚击汉军，大破之。
汉王复入壁，深堑而守之。
用张良计，於是韩信、彭越皆往。
及刘贾入楚地，围寿春，汉王败固陵，乃使使者召大司马周殷举九江兵而迎武王，行屠城父，随刘贾、齐梁诸侯皆大会垓下。
立武王布为淮南王。
五年，高祖与诸侯兵共击楚军，与项羽决胜垓下。
淮阴侯将三十万自当之，孔将军居左，费将军居右，皇帝在後，绛侯、柴将军在皇帝後。
项羽之卒可十万。
淮阴先合，不利，卻。
孔将军、费将军纵，楚兵不利，淮阴侯复乘之，大败垓下。
项羽卒闻汉军之楚歌，以为汉尽得楚地，项羽乃败而走，是以兵大败。
使骑将灌婴追杀项羽东城，斩首八万，遂略定楚地。
鲁为楚坚守不下。汉王引诸侯兵北，示鲁父老项羽头，鲁乃降。
遂以鲁公号葬项羽穀城。
还至定陶，驰入齐王壁，夺其军。
正月，诸侯及将相相与共请尊汉王为皇帝。
汉王曰： 吾闻帝贤者有也，空言虚语，非所守也，吾不敢当帝位。
translation: 
The King of Han enumerated Xiang Yu's sins and said: Initially, Xiang Yu and I were both ordered by King Huai, saying that if we entered Guanzhong first and pacified Guanzhong, we would become kings in Guanzhong. You Xiang Yu broke the agreement and made me the king of Shu and Han. This is the first crime.
You, Xiang Yu, under the guise of King Huai's order, killed the champion of Qingzi and claimed to be a general. This is the second crime.
You, Xiang Yu, have rescued Zhao and should return to resume your duties. However, you coerce the troops of the princes to enter Hangu Pass without authorization. This is the third crime.
King Huai agreed not to brutally plunder the land of Qin. You, Xiang Yu, burned the palaces of the Qin Dynasty, dug up the tomb of the First Emperor, and secretly amassed the property of the Qin Dynasty. This is the fourth crime.
He also forcibly killed the king Ziying who surrendered to the Qin Dynasty. This was the fifth crime.
In Xin'an, he used deception to kill 200,000 of the Qin Dynasty's descendants and made their general king. This was the sixth crime.
You, Xiang Yu, let your generals become kings in good places, but moved away the original princes and kings, causing your subordinates to fight for rebellion. This is the seventh sin.
You Xiang Yu expelled Emperor Yi from Pengcheng, established the capital of Pengcheng yourself, seized the land of King Han, merged Liang and Chu to become king, and allocated more land to yourself. This is the eighth crime.
You Xiang Yu sent people to assassinate Emperor Yi in Jiangnan. This is the ninth crime.
The tenth crime is to kill someone's monarch while serving as a subject, to massacre those who have surrendered, to govern unfairly, to fail to keep promises when making agreements, to be intolerable to the people of the world, and to be treasonous.
I led the righteous army to follow the princes to kill the cruel thieves, and sent the criminals who had been punished to kill you Xiang Yu. Why should I challenge you!
Xiang Yu was furious and shot the king of Han with a crossbow.
The king of Han was wounded in the chest, but he touched his feet and said, "This thief shot my toes!"
The King of Han was wounded and bedridden. Zhang Liang asked the King of Han to reluctantly get up and patrol to comfort the soldiers, so as to stabilize the morale of the army and prevent the Chu army from taking advantage of the opportunity to defeat the Han.
The King of Han came out to inspect the army. His injuries worsened, so he drove into Chenggao to rest.
When the king of Han recovered from his illness, he went west to Hangu Pass and came to Dongyang, where he expressed condolences to his elders and entertained them with wine. He chopped off the head of King Sima Xin of Sai and hung it in public in Yueyang Market.
After four days of rest, he returned to the army and was stationed in Guangwu.
The troops in Guanzhong were mobilized in large numbers.
At that time, Peng Yue led troops to station in Liang, harassing the Chu army and cutting off its food.
Tian Heng went to rely on Peng Yue.
Xiang Yu attacked Peng Yue and others many times, and Qi King Han Xin attacked the Chu army again.
Xiang Yu was afraid, so he made an agreement with the King of Han to divide the world equally, cutting off the territory to the west of Honggou to return to Han, and the east of Honggou to Chu.
King Xiang sent back the parents and wife of the King of Han. The Han army all shouted long live, and the Chu army bid farewell to the Han army and returned to their garrison.
Xiang Yu dismissed his troops and returned eastward.
The King of Han wanted to lead his troops back to the west, so he later adopted the strategy of leaving the marquis and Chen Ping to pursue Xiang Yu. He arrived in the south of Yangxia and stationed his troops, and agreed with Qi King Han Xin and Jiancheng Hou Pengyue to meet up with the Chu army at a time.
When they arrived at Guling, Han Xin and Peng Yue did not come to meet them.
The Chu army attacked the Han army and defeated the Han army.
The king of Han entered the camp again and dug a deep trench for defense.
Zhang Liang's strategy was used, so Han Xin and Peng Yue came to join him.
Liu Jia also entered Chu territory and besieged Shouchun. When the King of Han was defeated in Guling, he sent an envoy to summon Zhou Yin, the commander-in-chief, and sent all Jiujiang soldiers to meet Wu King Yingbu. Yingbu and Zhou Yin captured Chengfu during the march and massacred him wantonly. They followed Liu Jia and the princes of Qi and Liang to gather at Gaixia.
The King of Han granted King Wu Yingbu the title of King of Huainan.
In the fifth year, Gaozu and the princes' army attacked the Chu army together, and they fought Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
The Marquis of Huaiyin led an army of 300,000 men to the front alone, with General Kong on the left, General Fei on the right, the Emperor in the rear, and Generals Jianghou and Chai following behind.
Xiang Yu had about 100,000 soldiers.
The Marquis of Huaiyin fought first, but failed to win and retreated.
Generals Kong and Fei sent out troops to attack, but the Chu army was at a disadvantage. The Marquis of Huaiyin took advantage of the situation to counterattack and defeated Xiang Yu in Gaixia.
Xiang Yu's soldiers heard the song of Chu in the Han army and thought that the Han army had completely occupied the Chu land. Xiang Yu retreated and fled, so the Chu army was defeated.
The king of Han sent cavalry general Guan Ying to pursue Xiang Yu as far as Dongcheng, where he killed 80,000 Chu soldiers and thus pacified the Chu territory.
Lu County defended the city for the Chu State, but the Han army did not capture it. The King of Han led the princes' troops northward and showed Xiang Yu's head to the elders of Lu County, and Lu County surrendered.
So Xiang Yu was buried in Gucheng with the title of Lu Gong.
The king of Han returned to Dingtao, rushed into the camp of the king of Qi, and captured his army.
In the first month, the princes and generals asked each other to respect the King of Han as emperor.
The King of Han said: I heard that the title of emperor belongs to virtuous people. It is just a name but no reality, and it is not enough to hold the throne. I dare not accept the position of emperor.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
群臣皆曰： 大王起微细，诛暴逆，平定四海，有功者辄裂地而封为王侯。
大王不尊号，皆疑不信。
臣等以死守之。
汉王三让，不得已，曰： 诸君必以为便，便国家。
甲午，乃即皇帝位氾水之阳。
皇帝曰义帝无後。齐王韩信习楚风俗，徙为楚王，都下邳。立建成侯彭越为梁王，都定陶。故韩王信为韩王，都阳翟。
徙衡山王吴芮为长沙王，都临湘。
番君之将梅鋗有功，从入武关，故德番君。
淮南王布、燕王臧荼、赵王敖皆如故。
天下大定。
高祖都雒阳，诸侯皆臣属。
故临江王驩为项羽叛汉，令卢绾、刘贾围之，不下。
数月而降，杀之雒阳。
五月，兵皆罢归家。
诸侯子在关中者复之十二岁，其归者复之六岁，食之一岁。
高祖置酒雒阳南宫。
高祖曰： 列侯诸将无敢隐朕，皆言其情。
吾所以有天下者何？
项氏之所以失天下者何？
高起、王陵对曰： 陛下慢而侮人，项羽仁而爱人。
然陛下使人攻城略地，所降下者因以予之，与天下同利也。
项羽妒贤嫉能，有功者害之，贤者疑之，战胜而不予人功，得地而不予人利，此所以失天下也。
高祖曰： 公知其一，未知其二。
夫运筹策帷帐之中，决胜於千里之外，吾不如子房。
镇国家，抚百姓，给餽饟，不绝粮道，吾不如萧何。
连百万之军，战必胜，攻必取，吾不如韩信。
此三者，皆人杰也，吾能用之，此吾所以取天下也。
项羽有一范增而不能用，此其所以为我擒也。
高祖欲长都雒阳，齐人刘敬说，乃留侯劝上入都关中，高祖是日驾，入都关中。
六月，大赦天下。
translation: 
All the ministers said: The king was born in poverty, punished the rebels, and brought peace to the world. Those who had meritorious service would cede lands and make them princes.
The king does not respect titles, so everyone has doubts about their titles and dare not take them seriously.
The ministers and others insisted to the death that the king should be called emperor.
The King of Han repeatedly gave in and had no choice but to say: "Everyone must think that this will benefit the country."
In order to benefit the country, the emperor took the throne north of Sishui during the Jiawu Period. The emperor said that Emperor Yi had no descendants.
King Han Xin of Qi was familiar with the customs of Chu, so he moved to be the king of Chu and established Xiapi as his capital. The feudal lord Pengyue was granted the title of King of Liang, and his capital was established in Dingtao. The original King Xin of Han was still the King of Han and established his capital in Yangdi.
Wu Rui, the king of Hengshan, moved to Changsha and established his capital in Linxiang.
Fanjun's general Mei Kuang had made military exploits and followed him into Wuguan. The emperor thanked Fanjun for his kindness.
King Yingbu of Huainan, King Zang Tu of Yan, and King Zhang Ao of Zhao all maintained their previous titles.
The world is basically at peace.
Gaozu established his capital at Luoyang, and all the princes became Gaozu's vassals.
The original Linjiang King Gonghuan rebelled against Xiang Yu and ordered Lu Wan and Liu Jia to besiege Gonghuan but failed to conquer.
Gonghuan surrendered a few months later and killed him in Luoyang.
In May, all the soldiers were disarmed and returned home.
The soldiers of the vassal states who stayed in Guanzhong were exempted from corvee for twelve years, and those who returned to their hometown were exempted from corvee for six years and were provided with food for one year.
Emperor Gaozu held a banquet in Luoyang Nangong.
Emperor Gaozu said: All princes and generals, please do not hide anything from me and speak your mind.
What is the reason why I can win the world?
Why did the Xiang family lose the world?
Gao Qi and Wang Ling replied: Your Majesty is arrogant and insulting, while Xiang Yu is kind and protective.
However, His Majesty sent people to attack the city and capture the territory, and the places he surrendered and captured were granted to him, sharing the interests of the people of the world.
Xiang Yu was jealous of the virtuous, framed those who had merit, and doubted the virtuous. He won battles without giving any reward for his merits, and gained land without sharing the profits. This was the reason why he lost the world.
Emperor Gaozu said: You know the first, but you don’t know the second.
When it comes to planning and planning in the tent, which is worse than a thousand miles away, I am not as good as the ovary.
In guarding the country, pacifying the people, supplying military supplies, and smoothing food routes, I am not as good as Xiao He.
With millions of soldiers in a company, we will win every battle and conquer every attack. I am not as good as Han Xin.
These three people are all outstanding people. I can use them. This is the reason why I have won the world.
Xiang Yu had Fan Zeng but could not use him. This was the reason why he was captured and killed by me.
Emperor Gaozu wanted to establish his capital in Luoyang for a long time, but Liu Jing, a native of Qi, dissuaded him. Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, also persuaded Emperor Gaozu to enter Guanzhong as the capital. On the same day, Emperor Gaozu ordered him to get up and enter Guanzhong to establish his capital.
In June, there is a general amnesty.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十月，燕王臧荼反，攻下代地。
高祖自将击之，得燕王臧荼。即立太尉卢绾为燕王。
使丞相哙将兵攻代。
其秋，利几反，高祖自将兵击之，利几走。
利几者，项氏之将。
项氏败，利几为陈公，不随项羽，亡降高祖，高祖侯之颍川。
高祖至雒阳，举通侯籍召之，而利几恐，故反。
六年，高祖五日一朝太公，如家人父子礼。
太公家令说太公曰： 天无二日，土无二王。
今高祖虽子，人主也；太公虽父，人臣也。
柰何令人主拜人臣！
如此，则威重不行。
後高祖朝，太公拥篲，迎门卻行。
高祖大惊，下扶太公。
太公曰： 帝，人主也，柰何以我乱天下法！
於是高祖乃尊太公为太上皇。
心善家令言，赐金五百斤。
十二月，人有上变事告楚王信谋反，上问左右，左右争欲击之。
用陈平计，乃伪游云梦，会诸侯於陈，楚王信迎，即因执之。
是日，大赦天下。
田肯贺，因说高祖曰： 陛下得韩信，又治秦中。
秦，形胜之国，带河山之险，县隔千里，持戟百万，秦得百二焉。
地埶便利，其以下兵於诸侯，譬犹居高屋之上建瓴水也。
夫齐，东有琅邪、即墨之饶，南有泰山之固，西有浊河之限，北有勃海之利。地方二千里，持戟百万，县隔千里之外，齐得十二焉。
故此东西秦也。
非亲子弟，莫可使王齐矣。 高祖曰： 善。
赐黄金五百斤。
後十馀日，封韩信为淮阴侯，分其地为二国。
高祖曰将军刘贾数有功，以为荆王，王淮东。
弟交为楚王，王淮西。
子肥为齐王，王七十馀城，民能齐言者皆属齐。
乃论功，与诸列侯剖符行封。
translation: 
In October, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled and captured Dai.
Emperor Gaozu personally led the army to attack him, captured Zang Tu, King of Yan, and immediately appointed Taiwei Lu Wan as King of Yan.
He sent Prime Minister Fan Kuai to lead troops to attack Dai.
In the autumn of this year, Li Ji rebelled. Gaozu personally led troops to attack him, but Li Ji fled.
Li Ji was a general of the Xiang family.
When the Xiang family was defeated, Li Ji was the magistrate of Chen County and did not follow Xiang Yu. He fled and surrendered to Gaozu, who made him a marquis in Yingchuan.
When Emperor Gaozu arrived in Luoyang, he summoned all the Tonghous based on their names, and Li Ji was also summoned.
Liji was very frightened, so he rebelled. In six years, Emperor Gaozu met with the Grand Duke once every five days, just like the common people's father-son etiquette.
The Taigong's family order admonished the Taigong: There are no two days in the sky, and there are no two masters in the earth.
Now, although Gaozu is your son, he is the monarch of all peoples; although Taigong is Gaozu's father, he is a subordinate.
How can the monarch be allowed to pay homage to his ministers!
In this way, the monarch loses his majesty and dignity.
Later, Emperor Gaozu paid homage to the Grand Duke. The Grand Duke greeted him at the door with a broom in his arms and walked backwards.
Emperor Gaozu was shocked and got out of the car to help the grandpa.
Taigong said: The emperor is the monarch of all people, how can he destroy the laws of the world because of me!
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu respected the Grand Duke as the Supreme Emperor.
Emperor Gaozu praised his family order in his heart and rewarded him with five hundred catties of gold.
In December, someone wrote a letter to accuse Chu King Han Xin of treason. Emperor Gaozu asked the ministers on his left and right, and the ministers rushed to attack Han Xin.
Emperor Gaozu adopted Chen Ping's strategy and pretended to tour Yunmengze and met with the princes in Chen County. King Han Xin of Chu went to greet him and took the opportunity to arrest him.
On this day, the world is amnesty.
Tian Ken came to congratulate him and advised Gaozu: Your Majesty has captured Han Xin and established his capital in Qinzhong.
Qin is a place with a superior geographical situation. There are dangers of blocking mountains and rivers, and it is thousands of miles away from the princes. It has a million warriors with halberds. Qin is a hundred times better than other places.
The terrain is convenient, and sending troops to the princes from here is like a high-rise building.
As for Qi, there are the riches of Langye and Jimo in the east, the dangers of Mount Tai in the south, the natural boundary of Zhuohe River in the west, and the benefits of fish and salt in the Bohai Sea in the north. The area is two thousand miles away, and there are one million warriors with halberds. It is thousands of miles away from the vassal states. Qi is ten times better than other places.
So these two places are Eastern Qin and Western Qin.
If he is not your Majesty's biological son, don't send him to be the king of Qi. Gaozu said: OK.
Reward five hundred catties of gold.
More than ten days later, Han Xin was granted the title of Marquis of Huaiyin and his fiefdom was divided into two countries.
Emperor Gaozu said that General Liu Jia had made many military exploits and was named King of Jing, and he was called the Gong Huaidong.
His younger brother Liu Jiao became the king of Chu and became the king of Huaixi.
His son Liu Fei became the king of Qi and was granted more than seventy cities. All the people who could speak the language of Qi belonged to the state of Qi.
Emperor Gaozu judged the merits and deeds, cut talismans with the princes as letters, and granted the princes food and towns.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
徙韩王信太原。
七年，匈奴攻韩王信马邑，信因与谋反太原。
白土曼丘臣、王黄立故赵将赵利为王以反，高祖自往击之。
会天寒，士卒堕指者什二三，遂至平城。
匈奴围我平城，七日而後罢去。
令樊哙止定代地。
立兄刘仲为代王。
二月，高祖自平城过赵、雒阳，至长安。
长乐宫成，丞相已下徙治长安。
八年，高祖东击韩王信馀反寇於东垣。
萧丞相营作未央宫，立东阙、北阙、前殿、武库、太仓。
高祖还，见宫阙壮甚，怒，谓萧何曰： 天下匈匈苦战数岁，成败未可知，是何治宫室过度也？
萧何曰： 天下方未定，故可因遂就宫室。
且夫天子四海为家，非壮丽无以重威，且无令後世有以加也。
高祖乃说。
高祖之东垣，过柏人，赵相贯高等谋弑高祖，高祖心动，因不留。
代王刘仲弃国亡，自归雒阳，废以为合阳侯。
九年，赵相贯高等事发觉，夷三族。
废赵王敖为宣平侯。
是岁，徙贵族楚昭、屈、景、怀、齐田氏关中。
未央宫成。
高祖大朝诸侯群臣，置酒未央前殿。
高祖奉玉卮，起为太上皇寿，曰： 始大人常以臣无赖，不能治产业，不如仲力。
今某之业所就孰与仲多？
殿上群臣皆呼万岁，大笑为乐。
十年十月，淮南王黥布、梁王彭越、燕王卢绾、荆王刘贾、楚王刘交、齐王刘肥、长沙王吴芮皆来朝长乐宫。
春夏无事。
七月，太上皇崩栎阳宫。楚王、梁王皆来送葬。
赦栎阳囚。
更命郦邑曰新丰。
八月，赵相国陈豨反代地。
上曰： 豨尝为吾使，甚有信。
代地吾所急也，故封豨为列侯，以相国守代，今乃与王黄等劫掠代地！
translation: 
Move Han Wangxin to Taiyuan.
In the seventh year, the Xiongnu attacked Han Wangxin in Mayi, and Han Wangxin rebelled with the Xiongnu in Taiyuan.
Baitu Manqiuchen and Wang Huang established Zhao Li, the original Zhao general, as king and rebelled against the Han Dynasty. Gaozu went to crusade in person.
The weather was so cold that two or three of the ten soldiers lost their fingers from the cold, and finally arrived at Pingcheng.
The Xiongnu besieged Gaozu in Pingcheng, and they withdrew their troops after seven days.
Fan Kuai was ordered to stay and pacify Daidi.
He made his elder brother Liu Zhong the acting king.
In February, Emperor Gaozu passed through Zhaodi and Luoyang from Pingcheng to Chang'an.
Changle Palace has been built, and officials below the prime minister have moved to Chang'an to work.
In August, Emperor Gaozu led his army eastward to attack the remaining rebels of King Xin of Han in Dongyuan.
Prime Minister Xiao built Weiyang Palace and built the East Palace, North Palace, Front Hall, Arsenal, and Taicang.
When Emperor Gaozu came back and saw that the palace was extremely magnificent, he was very angry and said to Xiao He: The world is in turmoil and has been fighting hard for several years. The success or failure is not yet known. Why should we build excessively luxurious palaces now?
Xiao He said: It is precisely because the world is not stable that we take this opportunity to build the palace.
Moreover, the emperor's home is all over the world. If the palace is not spectacular and gorgeous, it will not be enough to show the emperor's nobility and majesty, and it is also to prevent future generations of palaces from surpassing them.
Only then did Gaozu feel happy.
Gaozu went to Dongyuan and passed by Bairen. Zhao Xiangguan and his superiors murdered Gaozu. Gaozu had an abnormal heartbeat and therefore did not stop at Bairen.
Liu Zhong, the acting king, abandoned his country and fled. He returned to Luoyang and was deposed as Marquis of Heyang.
In the ninth year, Zhao Xiangguan's plan to murder Gaozu was discovered, and all three of their clans were executed.
Zhang Ao, king of Zhao, was deposed as Marquis of Xuanping.
In this year, the nobles of the Chu State Zhao, Qu, Jing, Huai, and the Qi nobles Tian were moved to Guanzhong.
Weiyang Palace was built.
Emperor Gaozu gathered the princes and ministers and held a banquet in the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
Holding a jade wine cup in his hand, Emperor Gaozu stood up and congratulated the Emperor on his birthday, saying: "In the past, adults often thought that I was a scoundrel who could not make a living. I could not manage the industry and was not as diligent as Zhong Qing."
Now, compared with Zhong, who has accomplished more in my career?
All the officials in the palace shouted long live and laughed happily.
In October of the tenth year, King Yingbu of Huainan, King Pengyue of Liang, King Lu Wan of Yan, King Liu Jia of Jing, King Liu Jiao of Chu, King Liu Fei of Qi, and King Wu Rui of Changsha all came to Changle Palace to pay homage.
Nothing happens in spring and summer.
In July, the Supreme Emperor died in Yueyang Palace, and the kings of Chu and Liang came to mourn him.
Pardon the prisoners in Yueyang.
Li Yi was renamed Xinfeng.
In August, Zhao Xiangguo and Chen Xi rebelled in Dai.
Emperor Gaozu said: Chen Xi once worked for me and kept his word.
Daidi is a place that I value, so I made Chen Xi a prince and guarded Daidi in the name of the Prime Minister. Now he and Wang Huang and others plundered Daidi.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
代地吏民非有罪也。其赦代吏民。
九月，上自东往击之。
至邯郸，上喜曰： 豨不南据邯郸而阻漳水，吾知其无能为也。
闻豨将皆故贾人也，上曰： 吾知所以与之。
乃多以金啗豨将，豨将多降者。
十一年，高祖在邯郸诛豨等未毕，豨将侯敞将万馀人游行，王黄军曲逆，张春渡河击聊城。
汉使将军郭蒙与齐将击，大破之。
太尉周勃道太原入，定代地。
至马邑，马邑不下，即攻残之。
豨将赵利守东垣，高祖攻之，不下。
月馀，卒骂高祖，高祖怒。
城降，令出骂者斩之，不骂者原之。
於是乃分赵山北，立子恆以为代王，都晋阳。
春，淮阴侯韩信谋反关中，夷三族。
夏，梁王彭越谋反，废迁蜀；复欲反，遂夷三族。
立子恢为梁王，子友为淮阳王。
秋七月，淮南王黥布反，东并荆王刘贾地，北渡淮，楚王交走入薛。
高祖自往击之。立子长为淮南王。
十二年，十月，高祖已击布军会甀，布走，令别将追之。
高祖还归，过沛，留。
置酒沛宫，悉召故人父老子弟纵酒，发沛中兒得百二十人，教之歌。
酒酣，高祖击筑，自为歌诗曰： 大风起兮云飞扬，威加海内兮归故乡，安得猛士兮守四方！
令兒皆和习之。
高祖乃起舞，慷慨伤怀，泣数行下。谓沛父兄曰： 游子悲故乡。
吾虽都关中，万岁後吾魂魄犹乐思沛。
且朕自沛公以诛暴逆，遂有天下，其以沛为朕汤沐邑，复其民，世世无有所与。
沛父兄诸母故人日乐饮极驩，道旧故为笑乐。
十馀日，高祖欲去，沛父兄固请留高祖。
高祖曰： 吾人众多，父兄不能给。
translation: 
The officials and people of Dai are not guilty, so forgive the officials and people of Dai.
In September, Emperor Gaozu himself went east to attack Chen Xi.
Arriving at Handan, Emperor Gaozu said happily: "If Chen Xi doesn't go south to defend Handan, and relies on the Zhang River as a formation, I know he has no ability."
Hearing that Chen Xi's generals were all former merchants, Emperor Gaozu said: I know how to deal with them.
So he used gold to lure Chen Xi's generals, and many of Chen Xi's generals surrendered.
In the eleventh year, Emperor Gaozu's crusade against Chen Kuang and others in Handan was not over yet. Chen Kuang's general Hou Chang led more than 10,000 people to fight on the move. Wang Huang garrisoned in reverse, and Zhang Chun crossed the Yellow River to attack Liaocheng.
Han sent General Guo Meng and the generals of Qi to attack and defeated them.
Taiwei Zhou Bo marched from Taiyuan and pacified Daidi.
When they arrived at Mayi, they failed to capture it for a while, but later they attacked it and destroyed the city.
Chen Xi's general Zhao Li defended Dongyuan, but Gaozu attacked Dongyuan but failed to capture it.
More than a month later, Zhao Li's soldiers insulted Gaozu, and Gaozu was very angry.
Dongyuan surrendered and ordered those who insulted Gaozu to be beheaded and executed. Those who did not insult Gaozu were spared.
So he set aside the area north of Changshan in Zhao State, named his son Liu Heng the acting king, and established Jinyang as the capital.
In the spring, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, rebelled against Guanzhong and executed three of Han Xin's clans.
In the summer, Liang Wang Peng Yue rebelled, abolished his title, and moved to Shu.
He wanted to rebel again, so he executed three of his clansmen. His son Liu Hui was named King of Liang, and his son Liu You was named King of Huaiyang.
In autumn and July, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and annexed the land of Liu Jia, King of Jing, to the east, and crossed the Huai River to the north. Liu Jiao, King of Chu, fled to Xue County.
Emperor Gaozu personally went to attack him and named his son Liu Chang the King of Huainan.
In October of the twelfth year, Emperor Gaozu defeated Yingbu's army in Huizhen, and Yingbu fled. Gaozu ordered other generals to pursue him.
Emperor Gaozu led his army back, passed by Peixian County, and stopped.
A banquet was held in Peigong, and all the friends, fathers and children from the past were called together to have a feast. Selecting Peizhong children, one hundred and twenty were obtained and taught them to sing.
After drinking to his heart's content, Emperor Gaozu was building a building, composed a poem by himself, and sang: The strong wind is blowing, the clouds are flying, the sea is full of power, we are returning to our hometown, and the warriors are safe and guarding the four directions!
Let the children learn to sing along.
Emperor Gaozu danced again, feeling sad and tearful, and said to his father and brothers in Peixian County: People who travel far away miss their hometown.
Although I have established my capital in Guanzhong, my soul will still miss Sipei County for thousands of years to come.
I started as Pei Gong, punished violence and rebelled, and finally conquered the world. I regard Peixian County as my Tangmuyi, exempting the people of Peixian County from corvee service, and they will not have to do corvee service for generations to come.
The fathers, brothers, elders, women, and old friends in Peixian County drank and drank happily every day, talking about old ways and making fun of themselves.
After more than ten days, Gaozu wanted to leave, but the elders and brothers in Peixian County insisted on keeping Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu said: I have so many followers that my father and brothers cannot afford to support them.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
乃去。
沛中空县皆之邑西献。
高祖复留止，张饮三日。
沛父兄皆顿首曰： 沛幸得复，丰未复，唯陛下哀怜之。
高祖曰： 丰吾所生长，极不忘耳，吾特为其以雍齿故反我为魏。 沛父兄固请，乃并复丰，比沛。於是拜沛侯刘濞为吴王。
汉将别击布军洮水南北，皆大破之，追得斩布鄱阳。
樊哙别将兵定代，斩陈豨当城。
十一月，高祖自布军至长安。
十二月，高祖曰： 秦始皇帝、楚隐王陈涉、魏安釐王、齐缗王、赵悼襄王皆绝无後，予守冢各十家，秦皇帝二十家，魏公子无忌五家。
赦代地吏民为陈豨、赵利所劫掠者，皆赦之。
陈豨降将言豨反时，燕王卢绾使人之豨所，与阴谋。
上使辟阳侯迎绾，绾称病。
辟阳侯归，具言绾反有端矣。
二月，使樊哙、周勃将兵击燕王绾，赦燕吏民与反者。
立皇子建为燕王。
高祖击布时，为流矢所中，行道病。
病甚，吕后迎良医，医入见，高祖问医，医曰： 病可治。
於是高祖嫚骂之曰： 吾以布衣提三尺剑取天下，此非天命乎？
命乃在天，虽扁鹊何益！
遂不使治病，赐金五十斤罢之。
已而吕后问： 陛下百岁後，萧相国即死，令谁代之？
上曰： 曹参可。
问其次，上曰： 王陵可。
然陵少戆，陈平可以助之。
陈平智有馀，然难以独任。
周勃重厚少文，然安刘氏者必勃也，可令为太尉。
吕后复问其次，上曰： 此後亦非而所知也。
卢绾与数千骑居塞下候伺，幸上病愈自入谢。
四月甲辰，高祖崩长乐宫。
四日不发丧。
translation: 
So Gaozu set out.
The people of Peixian County came out in large numbers and went to the west of the city to contribute cattle and wine.
Emperor Gaozu stayed again, pitched a tent, and feasted for three days.
The fathers and brothers of Pei County all kowtowed and asked, "Pei County is fortunate enough to be exempted from the corvee, but Fengyi has not yet been exempted from the corvee. Please show mercy to Fengyi."
Emperor Gaozu said: Fengyi is the place where I grew up, and I will never forget it. I only went to help the Wei state because Fengyi rebelled against me because of Yong Chi. The fathers and brothers of Peixian County insisted on their request, and then they exempted Fengyi from the corvee. Like Peixian County, they made Peihou Liu Bi the king of Wu.
The generals of the Han army pursued Yingbu's army on both the north and south sides of the Taoshui River. They defeated Yingbu's army and captured and killed Yingbu in Poyang.
Fan Kuai led another army to pacify Daidi and killed Chen Xi in the city.
In November, Emperor Gaozu returned to Chang'an from the army that conquered Yingbu.
In December, Emperor Gaozu said: The First Emperor of Qin, King Chen She of Chu Yin, King Anli of Wei, King Qi Min, and King Zhao Daoxiang all died without heirs, and were given to ten families to guard their tombs, twenty families of Qin Shihuang, and five families of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
All local officials and people who were coerced by Chen Xi and Zhao Li were pardoned.
When Chen Xi's surrendered generals said that Chen Xi was rebelling, King Lu Wan of Yan sent people to Chen Xi to participate in the conspiracy.
Emperor Gaozu sent Marquis Piyang to pick up Lu Wan, but Lu Wan refused to come because he was ill.
Marquis Piyang came back and explained in detail that there were signs of Lu Wan's rebellion.
In February, Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo were sent to lead an army to attack Lu Wan, King of Yan. Pardon the officials and people of Yan who participated in the rebellion.
The prince Liu Jian was granted the title of King of Yan.
When Emperor Gaozu attacked Yingbu, he was shot by a stray arrow and fell ill during the march.
The condition was serious, so Empress Lu invited a good doctor. The doctor went in to see Gaozu. Gaozu asked the doctor. The doctor said: The disease can be cured.
So Emperor Gaozu scolded the doctor and said: I conquered the world as a commoner with a three-foot sword. Isn't this destiny?
Destiny is in the sky, even if there is a Bian Que, what's the use!
Emperor Gaozu refused to let the doctor cure the disease, rewarded him with fifty pounds of gold, and told him to leave.
Soon Empress Lu asked Gaozu: If your Majesty, Xiao Xiangguo, dies in a hundred years, who will succeed him?
Emperor Gaozu said: Cao Shen can do it.
When asked about the next step, Emperor Gaozu said: "The royal tomb is fine."
However, Wang Ling is a bit naive and Chen Ping can help him.
Chen Ping is very wise, but it is difficult for him to act alone.
Zhou Bo is steady and kind, but lacks literary talents, but the one who can stabilize the Liu family must be Zhou Bo, and he can be made a Taiwei.
Empress Lu asked the next question, and Gaozu said: This is not something I will be able to know in the future.
Lu Huo and thousands of cavalry stayed at the frontier and waited, hoping that Gaozu would recover from his illness and go to apologize to Gaozu himself.
On the first day of the fourth month, Emperor Gaozu died in Changle Palace.
After four days there was no mourning.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
吕后与审食其谋曰： 诸将与帝为编户民，今北面为臣，此常怏怏，今乃事少主，非尽族是，天下不安。
人或闻之，语郦将军。
郦将军往见审食其，曰： 吾闻帝已崩，四日不发丧，欲诛诸将。
诚如此，天下危矣。
陈平、灌婴将十万守荥阳，樊哙、周勃将二十万定燕、代，此闻帝崩，诸将皆诛，必连兵还乡以攻关中。
大臣内叛，诸侯外反，亡可翘足而待也。
审食其入言之，乃以丁未发丧，大赦天下。
卢绾闻高祖崩，遂亡入匈奴。
丙寅，葬。
己巳，立太子，至太上皇庙。
群臣皆曰： 高祖起微细，拨乱世反之正，平定天下，为汉太祖，功最高。
上尊号为高皇帝。
太子袭号为皇帝，孝惠帝也。
令郡国诸侯各立高祖庙，以岁时祠。
及孝惠五年，思高祖之悲乐沛，以沛宫为高祖原庙。
高祖所教歌兒百二十人，皆令为吹乐，後有缺，辄补之。
高帝八男：长庶齐悼惠王肥；次孝惠，吕后子；次戚夫人子赵隐王如意；次代王恆，已立为孝文帝，薄太后子；次梁王恢，吕太后时徙为赵共王；次淮阳王友，吕太后时徙为赵幽王；次淮南厉王长；次燕王建。
太史公曰：夏之政忠。忠之敝，小人以野，故殷人承之以敬。
敬之敝，小人以鬼，故周人承之以文。
文之敝，小人以僿，故救僿莫若以忠。
三王之道若循环，终而复始。
周秦之间，可谓文敝矣。
translation: 
Empress Lu discussed with Shen Shiqi and said: The generals and the emperor are both common people with registered households. Now they are vassals in the north. They are often unhappy because of this. Now they serve the young emperor. If these people are not wiped out by the entire clan, the world will not be stable.
Someone heard the news and told General Li.
General Li went to see Shen Shiqi and said, "I heard that the emperor has passed away and there has been no mourning for four days. I want to kill the generals."
If this is the case, the world will be in danger.
Chen Ping and Guan Ying commanded 100,000 soldiers to garrison Xingyang, and Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo commanded 200,000 soldiers to pacify Yan and Dai. When they heard that the emperor had died and all the generals had been killed, they must have returned with their troops to attack Guanzhong.
The ministers are rebelling within, and the princes are rebelling outside, and the world is ready to be destroyed.
Shen Shiqi went to the palace and told Empress Lu these words, and then in Ding Wei a funeral was held and a general amnesty was granted to the world.
When Lu Wan heard that Emperor Gaozu had passed away, he fled to the Huns.
Bingyin buried Gaozu.
I have already established the prince as emperor and came to the Taishang Temple.
All the ministers said: Gaozu started from a humble common people, brought order to the chaos, and brought peace to the world. He was the founder of the Han Dynasty and had the highest merit.
His title is Emperor Gao.
The prince assumed the title of emperor, and this was Emperor Xiaohui.
Order all counties and princes of various countries to build Gaozu temples and offer sacrifices according to the seasons of the year.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Xiaohui thought that Emperor Gaozu missed Peixian County, so he made Peigong the original temple of Emperor Gaozu.
The one hundred and twenty singing children taught by Emperor Gaozu were all appointed as music performers in Emperor Gaozu's original temple. If there were any vacancies in the future, they would be filled immediately.
Emperor Gao had eight sons: the eldest son was King Fei of Qi Yaohui who was a concubine; the second was Emperor Xiaohui, born to Empress Lu; the third was King Ruyi of Zhao Yin who was born to Mrs. Qi; the third was Wang Heng of Dai, who was established as Emperor Xiaowen and was born to Empress Dowager Bo; the third was Wanghui of Liang, who was renamed King Zhao Bing when Empress Dowager Lu was the one; the third was Wang You of Huaiyang, who was renamed King Zhao You when Empress Lu was the Empress; the third was Prince Li of Huainan; the third was King Jian of Yan.
Tai Shigong said: The politics of the Xia Dynasty were simple and kind. The disadvantage of simplicity and kindness was that it made the people rough and less polite, so the people of the Yin Dynasty succeeded it with respect and dignity.
The disadvantage of being respectful and paying attention to dignity is that it makes the common people believe in ghosts and gods, so the people of the Zhou Dynasty replaced it with paying attention to hierarchy.
The disadvantage of paying attention to hierarchy is that it prevents the common people from treating each other with sincerity, and there is no better way to remedy the inability to treat each other with sincerity than to govern with simplicity and kindness.
The rules of governance of the kings of Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties seemed to go back and forth in cycles, ending over and over again.
It can be said that between the Zhou Dynasty and the Qin Dynasty, the shortcomings of paying attention to hierarchy were exposed.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
秦政不改，反酷刑法，岂不缪乎？
故汉兴，承敝易变，使人不倦，得天统矣。
朝以十月。车服黄屋左纛。
葬长陵。
translation: 
Isn't it absurd that Qin Shihuang Ying Zheng did not change the situation, but instead made the punishment cruel?
Therefore, the rise of the Han Dynasty, facing the ills of the past, changed the rules of governance so that the people would not be tired and get the laws of heaven.
The carriage uniforms were customized. The emperor's carriage was covered with yellow silk lining, and a feather-made pillar was erected on the left side of the carriage scale.
Emperor Gaozu was buried in Changling.


