Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 17]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖，沛丰邑中阳里人，姓刘氏，字季。
父曰太公，母曰刘媪。
其先刘媪尝息大泽之陂，梦与神遇。
是时雷电晦冥，太公往视，则见蛟龙於其上。已而有身，遂产高祖。
高祖为人，隆准而龙颜，美须髯，左股有七十二黑子。
仁而爱人，喜施，意豁如也。
常有大度，不事家人生产作业。
及壮，试为吏，为泗水亭长，廷中吏无所不狎侮。
好酒及色。
常从王媪、武负贳酒，醉卧，武负、王媪见其上常有龙，怪之。
高祖每酤留饮，酒雠数倍。
及见怪，岁竟，此两家常折券弃责。
高祖常繇咸阳，纵观，观秦皇帝，喟然太息曰： 嗟乎，大丈夫当如此也！
单父人吕公善沛令，避仇从之客，因家沛焉。
沛中豪桀吏闻令有重客，皆往贺。
萧何为主吏，主进，令诸大夫曰： 进不满千钱，坐之堂下。
高祖为亭长，素易诸吏，乃绐为谒曰 贺钱万 ，实不持一钱。
谒入，吕公大惊，起，迎之门。
吕公者，好相人，见高祖状貌，因重敬之，引入坐。
萧何曰： 刘季固多大言，少成事。
高祖因狎侮诸客，遂坐上坐，无所诎。
酒阑，吕公因目固留高祖。
高祖竟酒，後。
吕公曰： 臣少好相人，相人多矣，无如季相，原季自爱。
臣有息女，原为季箕帚妾。
酒罢，吕媪怒吕公曰： 公始常欲奇此女，与贵人。
沛令善公，求之不与，何自妄许与刘季？
吕公曰： 此非兒女子所知也。
卒与刘季。
吕公女乃吕后也，生孝惠帝、鲁元公主。
translation: 
Gaozu was born in Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County. The surname is Liu and the courtesy name is Ji.
The father's name is Taigong, and the mother's name is Liu Yu.
Previously, Lady Liu had rested on the shore of the Great Lake and met God in her sleep.
At this time, there were thunder and lightning, and the sky was dark and the earth was dark. Grandpa Gong went to see Lady Liu and saw a dragon on her body. Later Lady Liu became pregnant and gave birth to Gaozu.
Gaozu had a high nose, a plump forehead like a dragon, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg.
He is kind and loving to others, likes to give charity, and is broad-minded.
They often have lofty ambitions and do not engage in ordinary people's production operations.
When he reached his prime, he tried to be an official and became the chief of the Sishui Pavilion. Every official in the court was familiar with him and was teased by him.
He likes drinking and women.
He often borrowed wine from Wang Lao and Wu Fu and slept drunk. Wu Fu and Wang Lao often saw a dragon above him and felt very strange.
Every time Emperor Gaozu came to buy wine and stayed in the hotel to drink, the wine in the hotel sold several times more than usual.
When a strange phenomenon was discovered, at the end of the year, these two hotels often wrote off the credit debts of Gao Zu.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang to perform corvées and allowed people to watch. When he saw Qin Shihuang, he sighed and said: Ah, a real man should look like this!
Lu Gong, a single father, was friendly with the magistrate of Peixian County. In order to avoid his enemies from visiting the magistrate's house, he moved his family to Peixian County.
When the outstanding officials in Pei County heard that the county magistrate had a distinguished guest, they all went to send gifts to congratulate him.
Xiao He is the chief official of the county and is in charge of collecting gifts. He said to all distinguished guests: "Those whose gifts are less than one thousand yuan should sit down in the hall."
When Emperor Gaozu was the chief of the pavilion, he always looked down upon the officials. So he deceitfully said "Congratulations on thousands of dollars" on his name card, but in fact he didn't take out any money.
When the famous assassin was handed in, Lu Gong was shocked, stood up, and went to the door to greet Gaozu.
Lu Gong was a good person, so when he saw Gaozu's appearance, he respected him especially and led him to sit in the hall.
Xiao He said: Liu Ji originally talked a lot but rarely achieved anything.
Emperor Gaozu then teased the guests in the hall and sat at the top of the table, showing no humility.
The banquet was about to end, and Duke Lu signaled Gao Zu not to leave with his eyes.
Gaozu finished his drink and stayed behind.
Lu Gong said: I have been good at meeting people since I was young. I have met many people, but none of them is as noble as you, Liu Ji. I hope you, Liu Ji, take care of yourself.
I have a biological daughter who is willing to be your wife, Liu Ji, who holds a broom and sweeps.
After the banquet, Mrs. Lu was angry with Mr. Lu and said: "At first you always wanted to make this daughter different and marry her to a noble man."
Pei Ling was friendly with you and asked to marry your daughter, but you didn't agree. Why did you arbitrarily decide to marry Liu Ji?
Lu Gong said: This is not what you women and children can understand.
So he married his daughter to Liu Ji.
The daughter of Duke Lu was Empress Lu, who gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.
summary:
Emperor Gaozu, born Liu Ji in Peixian County, was the son of Taigong and Liu Yu. His mother became pregnant after dreaming of meeting a god while resting by a lake, during which a dragon appeared on her body. Gaozu possessed distinctive physical features including a high nose, dragon-like forehead, beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg. He was generous, charitable, and broad-minded, with lofty ambitions that set him apart from ordinary people. As an adult, Gaozu served as the chief of Sishui Pavilion, where he became familiar with local officials and enjoyed drinking and women. He frequently borrowed wine from local establishments, where shopkeepers observed a dragon above him when he was drunk. During a corvée trip to Xianyang, he saw Qin Shihuang and expressed his desire to achieve similar greatness. Lu Gong, impressed by Gaozu's appearance at a gathering, married his daughter to him despite his wife's objections. This daughter became Empress Lu, mother of Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
高祖为亭长时，常告归之田。
吕后与两子居田中耨，有一老父过请饮，吕后因餔之。
老父相吕后曰： 夫人天下贵人。
令相两子，见孝惠，曰： 夫人所以贵者，乃此男也。
相鲁元，亦皆贵。
老父已去，高祖適从旁舍来，吕后具言客有过，相我子母皆大贵。高祖问，曰： 未远。
乃追及，问老父。
老父曰： 乡者夫人婴兒皆似君，君相贵不可言。
高祖乃谢曰： 诚如父言，不敢忘德。
及高祖贵，遂不知老父处。
高祖为亭长，乃以竹皮为冠，令求盗之薛治之，时时冠之，及贵常冠，所谓 刘氏冠 乃是也。
高祖以亭长为县送徒郦山，徒多道亡。
自度比至皆亡之，到丰西泽中，止饮，夜乃解纵所送徒。
曰： 公等皆去，吾亦从此逝矣！
徒中壮士原从者十馀人。
高祖被酒，夜径泽中，令一人行前。
行前者还报曰： 前有大蛇当径，原还。
高祖醉，曰： 壮士行，何畏！
乃前，拔剑击斩蛇。
蛇遂分为两，径开。
行数里，醉，因卧。後人来至蛇所，有一老妪夜哭。
人问何哭，妪曰： 人杀吾子，故哭之。
人曰： 妪子何为见杀？
妪曰： 吾，白帝子也，化为蛇，当道，今为赤帝子斩之，故哭。
人乃以妪为不诚，欲告之，妪因忽不见。
後人至，高祖觉。
後人告高祖，高祖乃心独喜，自负。
诸从者日益畏之。
秦始皇帝常曰 东南有天子气 ，於是因东游以厌之。
高祖即自疑，亡匿，隐於芒、砀山泽岩石之间。
吕后与人俱求，常得之。
高祖怪问之。吕后曰： 季所居上常有云气，故从往常得季。
高祖心喜。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he once asked for leave to go home.
Queen Lu and her two children were weeding in the field. An old man passed by and asked for some water. Queen Lu gave him some food.
The old man met Empress Lu and said, "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to read the faces of the two children. The old man looked at Xiaohui and said: Madam, the reason why she is so noble is because of this child.
After seeing Lu Yuan, he was also a noble prime minister.
The old man had already left, and Gaozu happened to come to the field from someone else's house. Empress Lu told him that a guest was passing by and showed our faces to mother and son, saying that we would both be noble people in the future. Gaozu asked where my father was, and Empress Lu said: "It's not far away."
Gaozu caught up with the old man and asked him.
The old man said: I met my wife and children just now, and they are all similar to you. Your appearance is beyond words.
Emperor Gaozu thanked me and said: If it is true as my father said, I will never forget your kindness to me.
When Emperor Gaozu became famous, he didn't even know where the old man was.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he used bamboo skin as a hat. This hat was made by a thief he sent to Xue County, and he often wore it. When he became a distinguished person, he still often wore it. The so-called "Liu's crown" refers to this kind of hat.
Emperor Gaozu served as the pavilion chief and sent servants to Mount Li for the county. Many of the servants fled on the way.
He estimated that by the time they reached Lishan Mountain, everyone would have fled. He went to the swamp area west of Fengyi and stopped to drink. At night, Gaozu released the slaves he had escorted.
Emperor Gaozu said: "Everyone, let's go. I'm running away from now on!"
Among the servants, there were more than ten young and strong men who were willing to follow Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk, so he took a small road through the swamp that night and sent a man to explore the way.
The person who went out to explore the road came back and reported: There is a big snake lying across the road ahead. Please go back.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk and said: "When a hero walks, there is nothing to be afraid of!"
So he stepped forward, drew his sword and struck the snake, cutting it into two pieces, and the road was opened.
After walking for a few miles, he got drunk and lay down to sleep.
The people behind came to the place where the snake was killed and saw an old lady crying at night.
People asked why she was crying. The old lady said: Someone killed my son, so I cried.
People said again: Old lady, why was your son killed?
The old lady said: My son, the son of the White Emperor, turned into a snake and was lying on the road. Now he was killed by the son of the Red Emperor, so I cried.
People thought the old lady was dishonest and wanted to give her a hard time. The old lady suddenly disappeared.
Those who were left behind arrived at the place where Gaozu was resting, and Gaozu had already woken up.
They told Gaozu what had just happened. Gaozu was secretly happy and felt arrogant.
Those who followed him grew in awe of him.
Qin Shihuang often said that "there is the emperor's energy in the southeast", so he traveled to the east to suppress the emperor's energy in the southeast.
Emperor Gaozu suspected that the incident was related to him, so he ran away and hid among the rocks in the Mangshan and Dangshan areas.
Queen Lu searched with others, and often found Gaozu as soon as they arrived.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange and asked Empress Lu. Empress Lu said: There are often clouds where you are. If you look for the clouds, you can often be found.
Gaozu was very happy.
summary:
While serving as pavilion chief, Gaozu encountered an old man who predicted that Empress Lu and their children would become noble, and that Gaozu's own appearance was beyond description. When escorting servants to Mount Li, many fled, so Gaozu released the remaining servants and became a fugitive. Drunk one night, he killed a large snake blocking his path. An old woman later claimed the snake was the son of the White Emperor, killed by the son of the Red Emperor, which made Gaozu secretly proud and increased his followers' awe of him.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
沛中子弟或闻之，多欲附者矣。
秦二世元年秋，陈胜等起蕲，至陈而王，号为 张楚 。
诸郡县皆多杀其长吏以应陈涉。
沛令恐，欲以沛应涉。掾、主吏萧何、曹参乃曰： 君为秦吏，今欲背之，率沛子弟，恐不听。
原君召诸亡在外者，可得数百人，因劫众，众不敢不听。
乃令樊哙召刘季。刘季之众已数十百人矣。
於是樊哙从刘季来。
沛令後悔，恐其有变，乃闭城城守，欲诛萧、曹。
萧、曹恐，逾城保刘季。
刘季乃书帛射城上，谓沛父老曰： 天下苦秦久矣。
今父老虽为沛令守，诸侯并起，今屠沛。
沛今共诛令，择子弟可立者立之，以应诸侯，则家室完。
不然，父子俱屠，无为也。
父老乃率子弟共杀沛令，开城门迎刘季，欲以为沛令。
刘季曰： 天下方扰，诸侯并起，今置将不善，壹败涂地。
吾非敢自爱，恐能薄，不能完父兄子弟。
此大事，原更相推择可者。
萧、曹等皆文吏，自爱，恐事不就，後秦种族其家，尽让刘季。
诸父老皆曰： 平生所闻刘季诸珍怪，当贵，且卜筮之，莫如刘季最吉。
於是刘季数让。众莫敢为，乃立季为沛公。
祠黄帝，祭蚩尤於沛庭，而衅鼓旗，帜皆赤。
由所杀蛇白帝子，杀者赤帝子，故上赤。
於是少年豪吏如萧、曹、樊哙等皆为收沛子弟二三千人，攻胡陵、方与，还守丰。
秦二世二年，陈涉之将周章军西至戏而还。
燕、赵、齐、魏皆自立为王。
项氏起吴。
translation: 
When some of the children in Pei County heard about this, many wanted to join him.
In the autumn of the first year of Qin II, Chen Sheng and others revolted in Qixian County and established themselves as kings in Chenxian County, known as Zhang Chu.
Most of the counties and counties killed their chiefs in response to Chen Sheng.
The magistrate of Peixian County was frightened and wanted to respond to Chen Sheng with Peiju. The chief official Xiao He and the jailer Cao Shen said to him: As an official of the Qin Dynasty, you are now rebelling against Qin and leading the children of Peixian County. I am afraid they will not obey your orders.
I hope you can gather hundreds of people who are fleeing outside. Use this power to intimidate the masses, and they will not dare to disobey your orders.
The county magistrate sent Fan Kuai to summon Liu Ji. Liu Ji's team already numbered nearly a hundred people.
So Fan Kuai followed Liu Ji to Peixian County.
The magistrate of Peixian County regretted it again. Fearing that something might happen to Liu Ji, he closed the city gates and sent people to defend him, intending to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were frightened and climbed over the city wall to attach themselves to Liu Ji.
Liu Ji wrote a letter on silk and sent it to the city, telling the elders of Peixian County: The world has been suffering from the tyranny of the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
Now the elders are guarding the city for Pei Ling, but the princes from all over the world have revolted and want to massacre Pei County.
If the elders of Peixian County unite to kill Pei Ling and select the leader among their children who can be appointed as the leader to respond to the princes' army, then the lives of the whole family can be saved.
Otherwise, both father and son would be killed and their deaths would be meaningless.
The elders led their children to kill Pei Ling, opened the city gate, and welcomed Liu Ji, hoping to make him the magistrate of Pei County.
Liu Ji said: The world is in chaos, and all the princes are in rebellion. If the elected generals are not qualified, they will be completely defeated.
I am not begrudging my own life, but I am afraid that my talents are too weak to save my father, brothers and children.
This is a big deal, and I hope we can jointly elect someone who can do the job.
Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were civil servants who valued their wealth and life, and were afraid that the Qin Dynasty would exterminate their entire clans if the matter failed, so they all recommended Liu Ji.
The elders all said: We usually hear many strange things about Liu Ji. It seems that Liu Ji should be honored. And after divination, no one is more auspicious than Liu Ji.
At this time, Liu Ji repeatedly made concessions, but no one dared to take up the post. Finally, Liu Ji was appointed Duke of Pei.
In the courtyard of the Pei County Yamen, they offered sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor and Chi You, and used the blood of sacrifices to raise drum flags.
The flags are all red, because the snake Liu Ji killed was the son of the White Emperor, and the one who killed the snake was the son of the Red Emperor, so he respected red.
So the young men and powerful officials, such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and others, recruited soldiers for Pei Gong. They gathered two to three thousand people to attack Hu Ling and Fang Yu, and then returned to defend Fengyi.
In the second year of Qin II, General Chen Sheng led Zhou Zhang's army to the west to play in the water and return.
Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Wei all established themselves as kings.
Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu raised troops in Wu.
summary:
During the Qin II period, Chen Sheng's rebellion inspired the magistrate of Peixian County to consider revolt. Following advice from Xiao He and Cao Shen, Fan Kuai was sent to summon Liu Ji. After the magistrate reneged, the elders killed him and welcomed Liu Ji, who became Duke of Pei after initially declining. They raised two to three thousand soldiers, attacked nearby areas, and returned to defend Fengyi. When Yong Chi betrayed Pei Gong by surrendering to Wei, Pei Gong failed to recapture Fengyi and sought help from Xiang Liang, who provided additional troops.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
宋义谏，不听。
秦益章邯兵，夜衔枚击项梁，大破之定陶，项梁死。
沛公与项羽方攻陈留，闻项梁死，引兵与吕将军俱东。
吕臣军彭城东，项羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
章邯已破项梁军，则以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河，北击赵，大破之。
当是之时，赵歇为王，秦将王离围之钜鹿城，此所谓河北之军也。
秦二世三年，楚怀王见项梁军破，恐，徙盱台都彭城，并吕臣、项羽军自将之。
以沛公为砀郡长，封为武安侯，将砀郡兵。
封项羽为长安侯，号为鲁公。
吕臣为司徒，其父吕青为令尹。
赵数请救，怀王乃以宋义为上将军，项羽为次将，范增为末将，北救赵。
令沛公西略地入关。
与诸将约，先入定关中者王之。
当是时，秦兵彊，常乘胜逐北，诸将莫利先入关。
独项羽怨秦破项梁军，奋，原与沛公西入关。
怀王诸老将皆曰： 项羽为人僄悍猾贼。
项羽尝攻襄城，襄城无遗类，皆阬之，诸所过无不残灭。
且楚数进取，前陈王、项梁皆败。
不如更遣长者扶义而西，告谕秦父兄。
秦父兄苦其主久矣，今诚得长者往，毋侵暴，宜可下。
今项羽僄悍，今不可遣。
独沛公素宽大长者，可遣。
卒不许项羽，而遣沛公西略地，收陈王、项梁散卒。乃道砀至成阳，与杠里秦军夹壁，破二军。
楚军出兵击王离，大破之。
沛公引兵西，遇彭越昌邑，因与俱攻秦军，战不利。
还至栗，遇刚武侯，夺其军，可四千馀人，并之。
与魏将皇欣、魏申徒武蒲之军并攻昌邑，昌邑未拔。
translation: 
Song Yi warned him, but he didn't listen.
Qin sent troops to reinforce Zhang Han and secretly attacked Xiang Liang at night. They defeated Xiang Liang in Dingtao and died in the battle.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu were attacking Chenliu. When they heard that Xiang Liang was dead, they led their troops and marched eastward with General Lu.
Lu Chen was stationed to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu was stationed to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong was stationed in Dang.
Zhang Han had defeated Xiang Liang's army and thought that the enemies in Chu did not need to worry, so he crossed the Yellow River and attacked Zhao from the north, defeating the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king of Zhao, and Qin general Wang Li besieged Zhao Xie in Julu City. This is the so-called Hebei Army.
In the third year of Qin II, King Huai of Chu saw that Xiang Liang's army was defeated. He was frightened, moved away from Xutai, established his capital in Pengcheng, merged the armies of Lu Chen and Xiang Yu, and took command personally.
Peigong was appointed as the governor of Dang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, commanding the army of Dang County.
Xiang Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an and his title was Duke of Lu.
Lu Chen was appointed Situ, and his father Lu Qing was appointed Ling Yin.
Zhao requested rescue many times, so King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as his general, Xiang Yu as his second general, and Fan Zeng as his junior general, and went north to rescue Zhao.
He ordered Pei Gong to march west and invade Guanzhong.
An agreement was made with the generals: whoever conquers Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong.
At this time, the Qin army was strong and often took advantage of the victory to pursue, but the generals did not think it was advantageous to enter the pass first.
Only Xiang Yu hated Qin for defeating Xiang Liang's army, and was so angry that he was willing to enter the pass with Peigong west.
King Huai's veterans all said: Xiang Yu is agile but fierce, cunning and cruel.
Xiang Yu once attacked Xiangcheng, but no one was left alive in Xiangcheng. They were all buried alive. Wherever they passed, they were slaughtered and destroyed.
Moreover, the Chu army attacked and conquered many times, and King Chen and Xiang Liang failed before.
It is better to send another kind-hearted elder to march westward with the call of justice and explain the truth clearly to Qin's father and brothers.
Qin's father and brothers have suffered from their monarch's rule for a long time. Now if they can really get a generous elder to go to Guanzhong without bullying and tyranny, they should be able to win Guanzhong.
Now Xiang Yu is so fierce that he cannot be dispatched.
Only Pei Gong, who has always been a tolerant elder, can be dispatched.
In the end, King Huai did not agree to Xiang Yu's request and sent Peigong to the west to attack Qin. Collecting the scattered troops of King Chen and Xiang Liang, they passed through Dang and arrived at Chengyang. They faced off against the Qin army in Gangli and defeated the two Qin troops.
The Chu army sent troops to attack Wang Li and severely defeated his army.
Peigong led his troops to the west, met Peng Yue in Changyi, and joined him to attack the Qin army. The battle was not won.
Returning to Li County, I met Marquis Gangwu and captured his army, about 4,000 people, and merged them together.
Peigong, together with the troops of Wei General Huang Xin and Wei Shentu Wu Pu, jointly attacked Changyi, but Changyi was not captured.
summary:
Pei Gong joined forces with Xiang Yu, and together they achieved military successes while suffering setbacks. After Xiang Liang's death, King Huai of Chu appointed Pei Gong as governor of Dang County and ordered him to march west into Guanzhong, promising kingship to whoever entered first. Despite Xiang Yu's desire to join, King Huai's advisors favored Pei Gong's reputation as a tolerant elder. Pei Gong collected scattered troops, defeated Qin forces, and through strategic decisions including sparing the governor of Nanyang County, gained widespread surrenders.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鰓、襄侯王陵降西陵。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与皆，降析、郦。
遣魏人甯昌使秦，使者未来。
是时章邯已以军降项羽於赵矣。
初，项羽与宋义北救赵，及项羽杀宋义，代为上将军，诸将黥布皆属，破秦将王离军，降章邯，诸侯皆附。
及赵高已杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中。沛公以为诈，乃用张良计，使郦生、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利，因袭攻武关，破之。
又与秦军战於蓝田南，益张疑兵旗帜，诸所过毋得掠卤，秦人憙，秦军解，因大破之。
又战其北，大破之。
乘胜，遂破之。
汉元年十月，沛公兵遂先诸侯至霸上。
秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺符节，降轵道旁。
诸将或言诛秦王。
沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容；且人已服降，又杀之，不祥。
乃以秦王属吏，遂西入咸阳。
欲止宫休舍，樊哙、张良谏，乃封秦重宝财物府库，还军霸上。
召诸县父老豪桀曰： 父老苦秦苛法久矣，诽谤者族，偶语者弃巿。
吾与诸侯约，先入关者王之，吾当王关中。
与父老约，法三章耳：杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
馀悉除去秦法。
诸吏人皆案堵如故。
凡吾所以来，为父老除害，非有所侵暴，无恐！
且吾所以还军霸上，待诸侯至而定约束耳。
乃使人与秦吏行县乡邑，告谕之。
秦人大喜，争持牛羊酒食献飨军士。
沛公又让不受，曰： 仓粟多，非乏，不欲费人。
translation: 
When the troops are led westward, no one will fail to surrender.
Arriving at Danshui, Gaowu Houyi and Xianghou Wangling surrendered in Xiling.
When he returned to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Rong, and together with him, they forced Xixian and Lixian to surrender.
Ningchang of Wei was sent as an envoy to Qin Guanzhong, but the envoy did not come back.
By this time, Zhang Han had led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu in Zhao.
At first, Xiang Yu and Song Yi marched north to rescue Zhao. When Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, he replaced him as general. Many generals, such as Qing Bu, were subordinate to Xiang Yu. He defeated Qin general Wang Li's army and made Zhang Han surrender, and all the princes joined him.
When Zhao Gao had killed Qin II, he sent people to see Pei Gong and wanted to make an agreement to carve up Guanzhong and claim the throne. Pei Gong thought it was a fraud, so he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and sent Li Sheng and Lu Jia to lobby the Qin generals. They lured them with their own interests and took the opportunity to attack Wuguan and break the pass.
He also fought with the Qin army in the south of Lantian. He added more suspects and planted more flags. No looting was allowed in the places he passed. The people of Qin were very happy. The Qin army collapsed and the Qin army was defeated.
They fought again in the north of Lantian and defeated the Qin army again.
Taking advantage of the victory, he pursued and completely defeated the Qin army.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang before the princes.
The Prince of Qin rode on a plain carriage with a white horse, tied his neck with a ribbon, sealed the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
Some generals advocated killing the King of Qin.
Pei Gong said: King Huai of Chu sent me originally because I can be tolerant. Besides, it is unlucky to kill someone after they have already surrendered.
So he handed the King of Qin over to the officials and headed west into Xianyang.
Pei Gong wanted to stay in the palace to rest, but after being persuaded by Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang, he sealed off the valuable treasures, property and storehouses in the Qin Palace and returned to the army.
He summoned the elders and heroes from each county and said: "The elders have suffered from the harsh punishments of the Qin Dynasty for a long time. Those who slander the government will be exterminated, and those who gather to discuss will be beheaded in the streets."
I made an agreement with the princes that whoever enters Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong, and I should be crowned king in Guanzhong.
It was agreed with the elders that the law has only three chapters: the death penalty for murder, and the punishment for injury and robbery commensurate with the crime committed.
All other laws of the Qin Dynasty were abolished.
Officials and people should live in peace and harmony.
The reason why I am here is to eliminate harm for the elders. There will be no bullying or cruel behavior. Don't be afraid.
The reason why I returned to Junba was to wait for the princes to arrive and formulate a common agreement.
Peigong sent people and officials from the Qin Dynasty to patrol the county and countryside to inform the people.
The people of Qin were very happy and rushed to entertain the soldiers with cattle and sheep, wine and food.
Pei Gong refused to accept it again, saying: "There is a lot of grain in the warehouse, there is no shortage, and I don't want to waste it on the people."
summary:
Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang in October of the first Han year, where the King of Qin surrendered. After initially wanting to rest in the palace, Pei Gong heeded advice to seal the treasures and return to camp. He established the three-chapter law code, abolished harsh Qin laws, and won the people's support by refusing their offerings. When Xiang Yu's forces approached, Pei Gong's subordinate Cao Wushang informed Xiang Yu of his intentions, but Xiang Bo's intervention and Pei Gong's apology at Hongmen prevented conflict.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
赵王歇徙王代。
赵相张耳为常山王，都襄国。
当阳君黥布为九江王，都六。
怀王柱国共敖为临江王，都江陵。
番君吴芮为衡山王，都邾。
燕将臧荼为燕王，都蓟。
故燕王韩广徙王辽东。
广不听，臧荼攻杀之无终。
封成安君陈馀河间三县，居南皮。
封梅鋗十万户。
四月，兵罢戏下，诸侯各就国。
汉王之国，项王使卒三万人从，楚与诸侯之慕从者数万人，从杜南入蚀中。
去辄烧绝栈道，以备诸侯盗兵袭之，亦示项羽无东意。
至南郑，诸将及士卒多道亡归，士卒皆歌思东归。
韩信说汉王曰： 项羽王诸将之有功者，而王独居南郑，是迁也。
军吏士卒皆山东之人也，日夜跂而望归，及其锋而用之，可以有大功。
天下已定，人皆自宁，不可复用。
不如决策东乡，争权天下。
项羽出关，使人徙义帝。
曰： 古之帝者地方千里，必居上游。
乃使使徙义帝长沙郴县，趣义帝行，群臣稍倍叛之，乃阴令衡山王、临江王击之，杀义帝江南。
项羽怨田荣，立齐将田都为齐王。田荣怒，因自立为齐王，杀田都而反楚；予彭越将军印，令反梁地。
楚令萧公角击彭越，彭越大破之。
陈馀怨项羽之弗王己也，令夏说说田荣，请兵击张耳。
齐予陈馀兵，击破常山王张耳，张耳亡归汉。
迎赵王歇於代，复立为赵王。赵王因立陈馀为代王。
项羽大怒，北击齐。
八月，汉王用韩信之计，从故道还，袭雍王章邯。
邯迎击汉陈仓，雍兵败，还走；止战好畤，又复败，走废丘。
汉王遂定雍地。
东至咸阳，引兵围雍王废丘，而遣诸将略定陇西、北地、上郡。
令将军薛欧、王吸出武关，因王陵兵南阳，以迎太公、吕后於沛。
translation: 
King Xie of Zhao moved to another place and became king.
Zhang Er, the general of Zhao, was granted the title of King of Changshan and established the capital of Xiangguo.
He granted Dangyang Lord Yingbu the title of King of Jiujiang and established six counties as his capital.
King Huai of Chu named Zhu Guo Gong Ao the title of King of Linjiang and established his capital in Jiangling.
Wu Rui of Fan County was granted the title of King of Hengshan and Zhu County was established as his capital.
Zang Tu, the general of Yan, was made King of Yan and his capital was established in Ji County.
Han Guang, the original king of Yan, moved to Liaodong and became king.
Han Guang refused to obey, and Zang Tu attacked and killed Han Guang without end.
He was granted the title of Anjun, Chenyu, and three counties in Hejian, and lived in Nanpi.
One hundred thousand households were granted to Mei Yi.
In April, Xiang Yujing dismissed his troops and dispersed, and the princes returned to their feudal states.
When the King of Han returned to his country, King Xiang sent 30,000 troops to follow him. The soldiers of Chu and other vassal states admired the King of Han and followed him with tens of thousands of soldiers.
They entered Eclipse from the south of Du County. After leaving, they burned down the plank road to prevent attacks by the princes' armies and bandits. They also expressed to Xiang Yu that they had no intention of marching eastward.
When they arrived at Nanzheng, many of the generals and soldiers fled back on the way. The soldiers all sang songs and wanted to return to the east.
Han Xin advised the King of Han: Xiang Yu made the meritorious generals kings, while the king was made alone in Nanzheng. This was actually demoting him.
The officers and soldiers in the army were all from the east of Mount Laoshan, and they were eager to return home day and night. If you take advantage of them when they are strong, you can achieve great success.
When the world is at peace and everyone naturally feels at ease, it can no longer be exploited.
It is better to decide to march eastward and fight for the power of the world.
Xiang Yu left Hangu Pass and sent people to move to Emperor Yi.
Said: In ancient times, emperors ruled over thousands of miles of land and had to live upstream.
He sent envoys to move Emperor Yi to Chen County in Changsha and urged him to leave quickly. The ministers gradually betrayed Emperor Yi, so Xiang Yu secretly asked the kings of Hengshan and Linjiang to attack him and kill Emperor Yi in the south of the Yangtze River.
Xiang Yu resented Tian Rong and made Qi general Tian Du the king of Qi. Tian Rong was angry and proclaimed himself king of Qi. He killed Tian Du and rebelled against Xiang Chu. He gave the general's seal to Peng Yue and asked him to raise troops in Liang to rebel against Chu.
Chu sent Xiao Gongjiao to attack Peng Yue, and Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao.
Chen Yu resented Xiang Yu for not making him king, so he sent Xia Sui to lobby Tian Rong and borrow troops to attack Zhang Er.
Qi lent troops to Chen Yu and defeated Zhang Er, king of Changshan. Zhang Er fled and joined the king of Han.
Chen Yu took King Zhao Xie back from Dai and established him as King of Zhao. King Zhao then named Chen Yu the Dai King.
Xiang Yu was furious and sent troops north to attack them.
In August, the King of Han used Han Xin's strategy to return from the old route and attack King Yong Zhanghan.
Zhang Han met the Han army in Chencang, but King Yong was defeated and retreated. He stopped to engage in battle at Haozhen, but failed again and fled to Feiqiu.
The king of Han immediately pacified Yongdi.
He went east to Xianyang, led his army to besiege King Yong in Feiqiu, and sent generals to capture Longxi, Beidi and Shangjun.
He sent generals Xue Ou and Wang Xiu out of Wuguan, and with the help of Wang Ling's troops stationed in Nanyang, they met the Taigong and Empress Lu in Peixian County.
summary:
Xiang Yu later broke the agreement, making Pei Gong King of Han in Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong. The King of Han used Han Xin's strategy to march eastward, attacking and defeating King Yong Zhanghan. Over subsequent years, the Han and Chu forces engaged in prolonged warfare with shifting fortunes. The King of Han survived assassination attempts, built alliances, and eventually defeated Xiang Yu at Gaixia, where Xiang Yu's forces heard Chu songs and were routed.

Chunk 17: 
original: 
乃去。
沛中空县皆之邑西献。
高祖复留止，张饮三日。
沛父兄皆顿首曰： 沛幸得复，丰未复，唯陛下哀怜之。
高祖曰： 丰吾所生长，极不忘耳，吾特为其以雍齿故反我为魏。 沛父兄固请，乃并复丰，比沛。於是拜沛侯刘濞为吴王。
汉将别击布军洮水南北，皆大破之，追得斩布鄱阳。
樊哙别将兵定代，斩陈豨当城。
十一月，高祖自布军至长安。
十二月，高祖曰： 秦始皇帝、楚隐王陈涉、魏安釐王、齐缗王、赵悼襄王皆绝无後，予守冢各十家，秦皇帝二十家，魏公子无忌五家。
赦代地吏民为陈豨、赵利所劫掠者，皆赦之。
陈豨降将言豨反时，燕王卢绾使人之豨所，与阴谋。
上使辟阳侯迎绾，绾称病。
辟阳侯归，具言绾反有端矣。
二月，使樊哙、周勃将兵击燕王绾，赦燕吏民与反者。
立皇子建为燕王。
高祖击布时，为流矢所中，行道病。
病甚，吕后迎良医，医入见，高祖问医，医曰： 病可治。
於是高祖嫚骂之曰： 吾以布衣提三尺剑取天下，此非天命乎？
命乃在天，虽扁鹊何益！
遂不使治病，赐金五十斤罢之。
已而吕后问： 陛下百岁後，萧相国即死，令谁代之？
上曰： 曹参可。
问其次，上曰： 王陵可。
然陵少戆，陈平可以助之。
陈平智有馀，然难以独任。
周勃重厚少文，然安刘氏者必勃也，可令为太尉。
吕后复问其次，上曰： 此後亦非而所知也。
卢绾与数千骑居塞下候伺，幸上病愈自入谢。
四月甲辰，高祖崩长乐宫。
四日不发丧。
translation: 
So Gaozu set out.
The people of Peixian County came out in large numbers and went to the west of the city to contribute cattle and wine.
Emperor Gaozu stayed again, pitched a tent, and feasted for three days.
The fathers and brothers of Pei County all kowtowed and asked, "Pei County is fortunate enough to be exempted from the corvee, but Fengyi has not yet been exempted from the corvee. Please show mercy to Fengyi."
Emperor Gaozu said: Fengyi is the place where I grew up, and I will never forget it. I only went to help the Wei state because Fengyi rebelled against me because of Yong Chi. The fathers and brothers of Peixian County insisted on their request, and then they exempted Fengyi from the corvee. Like Peixian County, they made Peihou Liu Bi the king of Wu.
The generals of the Han army pursued Yingbu's army on both the north and south sides of the Taoshui River. They defeated Yingbu's army and captured and killed Yingbu in Poyang.
Fan Kuai led another army to pacify Daidi and killed Chen Xi in the city.
In November, Emperor Gaozu returned to Chang'an from the army that conquered Yingbu.
In December, Emperor Gaozu said: The First Emperor of Qin, King Chen She of Chu Yin, King Anli of Wei, King Qi Min, and King Zhao Daoxiang all died without heirs, and were given to ten families to guard their tombs, twenty families of Qin Shihuang, and five families of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
All local officials and people who were coerced by Chen Xi and Zhao Li were pardoned.
When Chen Xi's surrendered generals said that Chen Xi was rebelling, King Lu Wan of Yan sent people to Chen Xi to participate in the conspiracy.
Emperor Gaozu sent Marquis Piyang to pick up Lu Wan, but Lu Wan refused to come because he was ill.
Marquis Piyang came back and explained in detail that there were signs of Lu Wan's rebellion.
In February, Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo were sent to lead an army to attack Lu Wan, King of Yan. Pardon the officials and people of Yan who participated in the rebellion.
The prince Liu Jian was granted the title of King of Yan.
When Emperor Gaozu attacked Yingbu, he was shot by a stray arrow and fell ill during the march.
The condition was serious, so Empress Lu invited a good doctor. The doctor went in to see Gaozu. Gaozu asked the doctor. The doctor said: The disease can be cured.
So Emperor Gaozu scolded the doctor and said: I conquered the world as a commoner with a three-foot sword. Isn't this destiny?
Destiny is in the sky, even if there is a Bian Que, what's the use!
Emperor Gaozu refused to let the doctor cure the disease, rewarded him with fifty pounds of gold, and told him to leave.
Soon Empress Lu asked Gaozu: If your Majesty, Xiao Xiangguo, dies in a hundred years, who will succeed him?
Emperor Gaozu said: Cao Shen can do it.
When asked about the next step, Emperor Gaozu said: "The royal tomb is fine."
However, Wang Ling is a bit naive and Chen Ping can help him.
Chen Ping is very wise, but it is difficult for him to act alone.
Zhou Bo is steady and kind, but lacks literary talents, but the one who can stabilize the Liu family must be Zhou Bo, and he can be made a Taiwei.
Empress Lu asked the next question, and Gaozu said: This is not something I will be able to know in the future.
Lu Huo and thousands of cavalry stayed at the frontier and waited, hoping that Gaozu would recover from his illness and go to apologize to Gaozu himself.
On the first day of the fourth month, Emperor Gaozu died in Changle Palace.
After four days there was no mourning.
summary:
After establishing the Han Dynasty, Gaozu faced rebellions from various kings including Zang Tu, Han Xin, Chen Xi, and Yingbu. He personally led campaigns against them, executing or defeating the rebels. During a visit to his hometown Peixian County, Gaozu composed the famous Song of the Great Wind and exempted the county from corvée service. He died from an arrow wound sustained during the campaign against Yingbu, refusing medical treatment by declaring his fate determined by heaven. Before death, he designated successors for key positions, including Cao Shen, Wang Ling, Chen Ping, and Zhou Bo. Gaozu was buried in Changling with the posthumous title Emperor Gao, having established the Han Dynasty from humble beginnings.

