Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 9, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
郑桓公友者，周厉王少子而宣王庶弟也。
宣王立二十二年，友初封于郑。
封三十三岁，百姓皆便爱之。
幽王以为司徒。
和集周民，周民皆说，河雒之间，人便思之。
为司徒一岁，幽王以襃后故，王室治多邪，诸侯或畔之。於是桓公问太史伯曰： 王室多故，予安逃死乎？
太史伯对曰： 独雒之东土，河济之南可居。
公曰： 何以？
对曰： 地近虢、郐，虢、郐之君贪而好利，百姓不附。
今公为司徒，民皆爱公，公诚请居之，虢、郐之君见公方用事，轻分公地。
公诚居之，虢、郐之民皆公之民也。 公曰： 吾欲南之江上，何如？
对曰： 昔祝融为高辛氏火正，其功大矣，而其於周未有兴者，楚其後也。
周衰，楚必兴。
兴，非郑之利也。
公曰： 吾欲居西方，何如？
对曰： 其民贪而好利，难久居。
公曰： 周衰，何国兴者？
对曰： 齐、秦、晋、楚乎？
夫齐，姜姓，伯夷之後也，伯夷佐尧典礼。
秦，嬴姓，伯翳之後也，伯翳佐舜怀柔百物。
及楚之先，皆尝有功於天下。
而周武王克纣後，成王封叔虞于唐，其地阻险，以此有德与周衰并，亦必兴矣。 桓公曰： 善。
於是卒言王，东徙其民雒东，而虢、郐果献十邑，竟国之。
二岁，犬戎杀幽王於骊山下，并杀桓公。
郑人共立其子掘突，是为武公。
武公十年，娶申侯女为夫人，曰武姜。
生太子寤生，生之难，及生，夫人弗爱。
後生少子叔段，段生易，夫人爱之。
二十七年，武公疾。夫人请公，欲立段为太子，公弗听。
是岁，武公卒，寤生立，是为庄公。
translation: 
Duke Huan of Zheng was the youngest son of King Zhou Li and the younger brother of King Zhou Xuan.
Twenty-two years after King Xuan ascended the throne, Youcai was granted the title of Zhengdi.
He was sealed for thirty-three years, and the people all loved him.
King You appointed him as Situ.
He made the people of Zhou Dynasty live in harmony, and the people were very happy. People in the Yellow River and Luoshui basins missed him.
When he was a Situ for a year, because King You doted on Bao Si and neglected political affairs, the problems became difficult to recover. Some princes betrayed King You. So Huan Gong asked Tai Shibo: "The royal family is in serious disaster. How can I escape from death?"
Tai Shibo replied: Only the east of Luoshui and the south of the Yellow River can live in peace.
Duke Huan asked: Why?
Tai Shibo replied: The kings of the neighboring countries of Guo, Hao, Guo and Hao in that area were greedy and liked to take advantage of small things, so the people did not obey them.
Now, you are Situ, and the people love you. If you really ask to live in that area, the kings of Guo and Hao will easily give you land if they see that you are legitimate.
If you really live in that area, the people of Guo and Hao will be your people. Duke Huan: I want to live in the Yangtze River Basin in the south. How about it?
Taishi replied: In the past, Zhu Rong controlled fire for the Gao Xin family and made great contributions, but his descendants did not prosper in the Zhou Dynasty. Chu State is his descendant.
If the Zhou royal family is weak, Chu will surely prosper.
If the state of Chu prospers, it will definitely not be beneficial to the state of Zheng.
Duke Huan said; I want to live in the west, how about it?
Tai Shibo replied: The people there are greedy and profit-seeking, and it is difficult to live there for a long time.
Duke Huan said: If the Zhou royal family is weak, which country will prosper?
Tai Shibo replied: Qi, Qin, Jin, Chu, right?
Qi State, whose surname was Jiang, was a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Yao in managing the ceremonial system.
Qin, whose surname is Ying, is a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Shun in bringing many tribes into submission.
As for the ancestors of the Chu State, they have also established meritorious deeds for the people of the world.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated King Zhou, King Cheng granted the Tang Dynasty to Shuyu. The mountains and rivers there were dangerous. With these virtuous descendants coexisting with the weak Zhou family, the Jin Kingdom would definitely be able to prosper. Duke Huan said: OK.
So he quickly asked King You for instructions and moved his people to the east of Luoshui. As expected, the kings of Guo and Xi donated ten cities to him, and he finally established the state of Zheng.
In the second year, Quan Rong killed King You and Duke Huan at the foot of Mount Li.
The people of Zheng supported Duke Huan's son Jutu, who was Duke Wu.
In the tenth year of Duke Wu's reign, he married the daughter of Marquis Shen as his wife, named Wu Jiang.
Wu Jiang gave birth to the prince Wusheng, but it was difficult to deliver the baby. After the birth, his wife did not like Wusheng.
Later, Wu Jiang gave birth to a younger son, Shu Duan, who was born naturally. His wife loved Shu Duan very much.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Wu fell ill. His wife asked him to make Duan the crown prince, but Duke Wu refused.
At that time, Duke Wu passed away and Wansheng came to the throne. This was Duke Zhuang.
summary:
Duke Huan of Zheng, the youngest son of King Zhou Li, was granted the title of Zhengdi and served as Situ under King You. Loved by the people, he sought advice from Tai Shibo on escaping the Zhou royal family's impending disaster. Tai Shibo advised moving east of Luoshui and south of the Yellow River, where the greedy rulers of Guo and Hao would cede land. Duke Huan relocated his people there, establishing the state of Zheng. However, in the second year, Quan Rong killed King You and Duke Huan at Mount Li. Duke Huan's son, Duke Wu, succeeded him. Duke Wu's wife, Wu Jiang, favored their younger son Shu Duan over the crown prince Wusheng (Duke Zhuang). After Duke Wu's death, Duke Zhuang granted Shu Duan the capital, leading to rebellion. Duke Zhuang defeated Shu Duan, exiled Wu Jiang, but later reconciled with her through a tunnel.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
初，祭仲甚有宠於庄公，庄公使为卿；公使娶邓女，生太子忽，故祭仲立之，是为昭公。
庄公又娶宋雍氏女，生厉公突。
雍氏有宠於宋。
宋庄公闻祭仲之立忽，乃使人诱召祭仲而执之，曰： 不立突，将死。
亦执突以求赂焉。
祭仲许宋，与宋盟。
以突归，立之。
昭公忽闻祭仲以宋要立其弟突，九月丁亥，忽出奔卫。
己亥，突至郑，立，是为厉公。
厉公四年，祭仲专国政。
厉公患之，阴使其婿雍纠欲杀祭仲。
纠妻，祭仲女也，知之，谓其母曰： 父与夫孰亲？
母曰： 父一而已，人尽夫也。
女乃告祭仲，祭仲反杀雍纠，戮之於市。
厉公无柰祭仲何，怒纠曰： 谋及妇人，死固宜哉！ 夏，厉公出居边邑栎。
祭仲迎昭公忽，六月乙亥，复入郑，即位。
秋，郑厉公突因栎人杀其大夫单伯，遂居之。
诸侯闻厉公出奔，伐郑，弗克而去。
宋颇予厉公兵，自守於栎，郑以故亦不伐栎。
昭公二年，自昭公为太子时，父庄公欲以高渠弥为卿，太子忽恶之，庄公弗听，卒用渠弥为卿。
及昭公即位，惧其杀己，冬十月辛卯，渠弥与昭公出猎，射杀昭公於野。
祭仲与渠弥不敢入厉公，乃更立昭公弟子亹为君，是为子亹也，无谥号。
子亹元年七月，齐襄公会诸侯於首止，郑子亹往会，高渠弥相，从，祭仲称疾不行。
所以然者，子亹自齐襄公为公子之时，尝会斗，相仇，及会诸侯，祭仲请子亹无行。
子亹曰： 齐彊，而厉公居栎，即不往，是率诸侯伐我，内厉公。
translation: 
At first, Ji Zhong was favored by Duke Zhuang. Duke Zhuang asked him to be a minister. Duke Zhuang asked Ji Zhong to marry a beautiful woman from Deng State for him and gave birth to Prince Hu. Therefore, Ji Zhong made Hu the king. This is Duke Zhao.
Duke Zhuang once married a woman from the Yong family of the Song Dynasty and gave birth to Li Gongtu.
Women of the Yong family are very favored by the monarch.
When Duke Zhuang of Song Dynasty heard that Ji Zhong supported Hu, he sent someone to trick Ji Zhong into arresting him, and threatened him: If you don't make Tu the king, you will be executed.
The king of Song also arrested Tu Qiu for taking bribes.
Ji Zhong agreed to the Song Dynasty and swore an alliance with the Song Dynasty king.
He was going to take Tu Tu back to his country and make Tu Tu his king.
Duke Zhao suddenly heard that Ji Zhong had proclaimed his younger brother Tu as king due to threats from the Song Dynasty. On Dinghai in the ninth month, he suddenly fled to the Wei Kingdom.
On the day of Jihai, he suddenly came to Zhengdu and took the throne. This was Duke Li.
In the fourth year of Li Gong's reign, he offered sacrifices to Zhong Zhuanquan.
Duke Li was concerned about this matter and secretly asked Ji Zhong's son-in-law to kill Ji Zhong.
Yong Jiu's wife was Ji Zhong's daughter. When she found out about this, she asked her mother: Which one is closer, father or husband?
The mother said: There is only one father, but there are many choices for husbands!
Ji Zhongnu told Ji Zhong about this, but Ji Zhong killed Yong Jiu and exposed his body in the busy market.
Duke Li was helpless with Ji Zhong, but he was very angry with Yong Jiu, saying: After discussing with the woman, he deserved to die. In the summer, Duke Li was driven to live in Queyi on the border.
Ji Zhong welcomed Zhao Gonghu, and on Yihai day in the sixth month, Hu returned to Zhengdu and ascended the throne.
In the autumn, Duke Li of Zheng relied on the people of the city to kill Uncle Shan, the official of Liyi, and settled in Liyi.
When the princes heard that Duke Li had escaped, they attacked Zheng Guo, but they left without defeating Zheng Guo.
The State of Song gave Duke Li a large number of troops and asked him to stand guard in Liyi. Therefore, the State of Zheng stopped attacking the city.
In the second year of Duke Zhao, when Duke Zhao became the crown prince, his father, Duke Zhuang, wanted to make Gao Qumi his minister. The prince suddenly disliked Gao Qumi. Duke Zhuang did not listen to Hu's advice and finally made Qumi his minister.
When Zhaogong came to the throne, Qumi was worried that Zhaogong would kill him. On Xinmao day in October in winter, Qumi and Zhaogong went hunting and shot Zhaogong in the countryside.
Ji Zhong and Qu Mi did not dare to accept Duke Li, so they made Zhao Gong's younger brother Zi Qi the king instead, and they called him Zi Qi. He had no posthumous title.
In the seventh month of the first year of Ziqian, Duke Xiang of Qi met with the princes at the first stop. Zheng Ziqian went to the meeting, assisted by Gao Qumi, who followed Ziqian there. Ji Zhong excused himself from illness.
The reason why Ji Zhong did this was because Zi Qi once fought with Xianggong of Qi when he was a prince, and the two sides became enemies. When the princes met, Ji Zhong asked Zi Qi not to go.
Zi Qian said: The state of Qi is strong and Duke Li lives in Yue. If I don't go, Qi will lead the princes to attack me and ask Duke Li to return to the capital.
summary:
Duke Zhuang's reign saw conflicts with Zhou, Song, and Wei. He defeated King Huan of Zhou in battle but refrained from pursuing him. After Duke Zhuang's death, his son Duke Zhao briefly ruled but was ousted by Duke Li, who was backed by Song. Duke Li killed Ji Zhong but was later driven out, and Duke Zhao returned. Duke Zhao was assassinated by Gao Qumi, leading to a succession of short-lived rulers. Duke Li eventually returned, executed those who betrayed him, and reigned until his death. His son Duke Wen succeeded him.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
二十四年，文公之贱妾曰燕姞，梦天与之兰，曰： 余为伯鯈。
余，尔祖也。
以是为而子，兰有国香。
以梦告文公，文公幸之，而予之草兰为符。
遂生子，名曰兰。
三十六年，晋公子重耳过，文公弗礼。
文公弟叔詹曰： 重耳贤，且又同姓，穷而过君，不可无礼。
文公曰： 诸侯亡公子过者多矣，安能尽礼之！
詹曰： 君如弗礼，遂杀之；弗杀，使即反国，为郑忧矣。
文公弗听。
三十七年春，晋公子重耳反国，立，是为文公。
秋，郑入滑，滑听命，已而反与卫，於是郑伐滑。
周襄王使伯馃请滑。郑文公怨惠王之亡在栎，而文公父厉公入之，而惠王不赐厉公爵禄，又怨襄王之与卫滑，故不听襄王请而囚伯馃。
王怒，与翟人伐郑，弗克。
冬，翟攻伐襄王，襄王出奔郑，郑文公居王于氾。
三十八年，晋文公入襄王成周。
四十一年，助楚击晋。
自晋文公之过无礼，故背晋助楚。
四十三年，晋文公与秦穆公共围郑，讨其助楚攻晋者，及文公过时之无礼也。
初，郑文公有三夫人，宠子五人，皆以罪蚤死。
公怒，溉逐群公子。
子兰奔晋，从晋文公围郑。
时兰事晋文公甚谨，爱幸之，乃私於晋，以求入郑为太子。
晋於是欲得叔詹为僇。
郑文公恐，不敢谓叔詹言。詹闻，言於郑君曰： 臣谓君，君不听臣，晋卒为患。
然晋所以围郑，以詹，詹死而赦郑国，詹之原也。
乃自杀。
郑人以詹尸与晋。
晋文公曰： 必欲一见郑君，辱之而去。
郑人患之，乃使人私於秦曰： 破郑益晋，非秦之利也。
translation: 
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Wen had a concubine named Yan Ji. She dreamed that the Emperor of Heaven gave her an orchid and said: I am Bo Min.
I am your ancestor.
Use this orchid to be your son. The orchid has a strong and mellow aroma.
Yan Yan told Wen Gong about this dream, and Wen Gong slept with her. And gave her bluegrass as a voucher.
So Yan Ji gave birth to a son, named Lan.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Chong'er of Jin passed by the state of Zheng, and Duke Wen of Zheng was not polite to him.
Uncle Zhan, Wen Gong's younger brother, said: "Chong'er is a wise man and has the same surname as us. He passed by you when he was in poverty. You cannot be rude to him."
Duke Wen said: "There are many fugitive princes from the princes passing by here. How can I receive them according to the courtesy?"
Uncle Zhan said: "If you don't treat him politely, kill him. If you don't kill him, if he returns to the country, he will be a worry to the state of Zheng."
Duke Wen did not listen to Uncle Zhan's advice.
In the spring of the thirty-seventh year, Duke Chong'er of Jin returned to Jin and ascended the throne. He was Duke Wen of Jin.
In the autumn, the State of Zheng invaded the State of Hua, and the State of Hua only obeyed Zheng's orders. Soon, the State of Hua joined the State of Wei, so the State of Zheng attacked the State of Hua again.
King Zhou Xiang asked Bo Fu to intercede on behalf of the Hua Kingdom. Zheng Wengong resented King Hui for fleeing to Yue. It was Wen Gong's father, Li Gong, who escorted King Hui back to the throne. However, King Hui did not reward Duke Li with a salary for the throne. He also resented King Xiang for joining the Wei Kingdom and the Hua Kingdom. Therefore, Wen Gong did not listen to King Xiang's intercession for the Hua Kingdom and instead imprisoned Bo Fu.
King Xiang was very angry and united with the Zhai people to attack Zheng State, but failed to win.
In winter, the Zhai people attacked King Xiang of Zhou, and King Xiang fled to Zheng State. Zheng Wengong asked King Xiang to live in Chi.
In the thirty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Jin sent King Xiang of Zhou back to Chengzhou.
In the forty-one year, Zheng Guo helped Chu State attack Jin State.
Because Jin Wengong passed by Zheng and Zheng was rude to him, Zheng betrayed Jin and helped Chu.
Forty-three years ago, Duke Wen of Jin and Duke Mu of Qin jointly besieged the capital of Zheng. They attacked Jun Zheng for helping Chu to attack Jin, and Wen Gong passed by Jun Zheng for his rude crime.
At the beginning, Zheng Wengong had three wives and five beloved sons, all of whom died early due to their crimes.
Zheng Wengong hated Zi Xia and drove away the princes.
Zilan fled to Jin and followed Duke Wen of Jin to besiege Zhengdu.
At that time, Zilan served Duke Wen of Jin with great respect, and Duke Wen of Jin favored him very much. He acted secretly in Jin and took the opportunity to ask to return to Zheng to be the crown prince.
At this time, the state of Jin wanted to get Shu Zhan and kill him.
Duke Wen of Zheng was very frightened and did not dare to tell Uncle Zhan. When Uncle Zhan heard about this, he told Zheng Jun: I once told you that I wanted to kill Chong'er, but you didn't listen to me. Jin has finally become a worry for our country.
But the reason why Jin State besieged the capital of Zheng was because of me. If I die, I can pardon Zheng State. This is my wish.
So Uncle Zhan committed suicide.
The people of Zheng gave Uncle Zhan's body to the State of Jin.
Duke Wen of Jin said: I definitely want to see Lord Zheng and insult him before leaving.
The people of Zheng were worried about this, so they sent someone to tell Qin privately: Defeating Zheng is good for Jin, not Qin.
summary:
Duke Wen's reign involved conflicts with Jin and Chu. He was rude to Chong'er (later Duke Wen of Jin), who later besieged Zheng. Duke Wen's son Zilan, favored by Jin, became crown prince and later Duke Mu. Duke Mu's reign saw Qin's failed attack on Zheng, exposed by merchant Xian Gao. Zheng allied with Jin against Qin. After Duke Mu's death, Duke Lin was killed by Zigong over a turtle soup dispute. Duke Xiang succeeded him, facing Chu attacks and shifting alliances between Jin and Chu. Duke Xiang surrendered to Chu but was spared by King Zhuang.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
平公及叔乡曰： 善，博物君子也！
厚为之礼於子产。
二十七年夏，郑简公朝晋。
冬，畏楚灵王之彊，又朝楚，子产从。
二十八年，郑君病，使子产会诸侯，与楚灵王盟於申，诛齐庆封。
三十六年，简公卒，子定公宁立。
秋，定公朝晋昭公。
定公元年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王而自立，为平王。
欲行德诸侯。归灵王所侵郑地于郑。
四年，晋昭公卒，其六卿彊，公室卑。
子产谓韩宣子曰： 为政必以德，毋忘所以立。
六年，郑火，公欲禳之。
子产曰： 不如修德。
八年，楚太子建来奔。
十年，太子建与晋谋袭郑。
郑杀建，建子胜奔吴。
十一年，定公如晋。
晋与郑谋，诛周乱臣，入敬王于周。
十三年，定公卒，子献公虿立。
献公十三年卒，子声公胜立。
当是时，晋六卿彊，侵夺郑，郑遂弱。
声公五年，郑相子产卒，郑人皆哭泣，悲之如亡亲戚。
子产者，郑成公少子也。
为人仁爱人，事君忠厚。
孔子尝过郑，与子产如兄弟云。
及闻子产死，孔子为泣曰： 古之遗爱也！
八年，晋范、中行氏反晋，告急於郑，郑救之。
晋伐郑，败郑军於铁。
十四年，宋景公灭曹。
二十年，齐田常弑其君简公，而常相於齐。
二十二年，楚惠王灭陈。
孔子卒。
三十六年，晋知伯伐郑，取九邑。
三十七年，声公卒，子哀公易立。
哀公八年，郑人弑哀公而立声公弟丑，是为共公。
共公三年，三晋灭知伯。
三十一年，共公卒，子幽公已立。
translation: 
After discussing this with Zichan, Duke Ping and his uncle praised him and said: Yes, you are truly worthy of being a knowledgeable gentleman!
Give your son a generous gift.
In the summer of the twenty-seventh year, Duke Jiang of Zheng went to pay homage to the king of Jin.
In the winter, the state of Zheng was afraid that King Ling of Chu was powerful, so he paid homage to the state of Chu, and Zichan followed him.
In the twenty-eighth year, Zheng Jun fell ill and sent Zichan to meet with the princes and make an alliance with King Ling of Chu in Shen. King Chu killed Qi Guo Qingfeng.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Jian passed away, and his son Ding Gongning came to the throne.
In autumn, Duke Dinggong paid homage to Duke Zhao of Jin.
In the first year of Ding AD, the prince of Chu State Qi Ji killed the king of the country, King Ling, and established himself as king. This was King Ping.
King Ping wanted to do something benevolent and moral among the princes, so he returned all the land that King Ling had invaded from Zheng to Zheng.
In four years, Jin Zhaogong passed away. The six ministers of Jin became stronger and the country's power weakened.
Zichan said to Han Xuanzi: To hold power must be based on benevolence, righteousness and morality, and do not forget the reasons for the consolidation of power.
In the sixth year, a fire broke out in the state of Zheng, and Duke Din wanted to pray to ward off the disaster.
Zichan said: It is better to practice virtuous government.
In the eighth year, Prince Jian of Chu State fled to Zheng State.
In the tenth year, Prince Jian discussed with Jin State to attack Zheng State.
Zheng Guo killed Prince Jian, and Prince Jian's son fled to Wu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Dinggong arrived in Jin.
Jin and Zheng negotiated to kill the rebellious ministers of the Zhou royal family and send King Jing back to Zhou.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Ding passed away and his son Xiangong Hui came to the throne.
Duke Xian died in the thirteenth year, and his son Sheng Gongsheng ascended the throne.
At this time, the six ministers of Jin became stronger and invaded Zheng's territory, causing Zheng to decline.
In the fifth year of Duke Sheng's reign, the Prime Minister of Zheng died. The people of Zheng all cried, mourning for him as they mourned for their own relatives.
Zichan is the youngest son of Zheng Chenggong.
Be kind and caring to others, serve the king with loyalty and honesty.
Confucius once passed by the state of Zheng and was as close as brothers to Zichan.
When he heard that Zichan had died, Confucius cried sadly: Zichan's benevolence is really a legacy from ancient times!
In the eighth year, the Fan and Zhongxing clans of Jin rebelled against Jin. Jin asked Zheng for help, and Zheng rescued them.
The Jin State therefore attacked the Zheng State and defeated Zheng's army at Tieba.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Jinggong of Song Dynasty destroyed Cao State.
Twenty years later, Tian Chang of the State of Qi killed his own monarch, Duke Jian, and Tian Chang became the Prime Minister of the State of Qi.
In the twenty-second year, King Hui of Chu destroyed the state of Chen.
Confucius passed away.
In the thirty-sixth year, Zhibo of Jin State attacked Zheng State and captured nine cities.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Sheng passed away, and his son Duke Ai came to the throne.
In the eighth year of Duke Ai, the people of Zheng killed Duke Ai and made Chou, the younger brother of Duke Sheng, the king of the country.
In the third year of Gong Gong's reign, the three Jin Dynasties destroyed Zhibo.
In the thirty-first year, Gonggong passed away, and his son Yougong came to the throne.
summary:
Later rulers included Duke Cheng, who was captured by Jin for allying with Chu, and Duke Li, who was poisoned by Zi Si. Duke Jian's reign featured Zichan, a wise minister who stabilized Zheng through diplomacy and reforms. Zichan's advice to Jin's Duke Ping on gods and governance earned him praise. After Zichan's death, Zheng declined under pressure from Jin's six ministers and Han's invasions. Duke Sheng's reign saw Zichan's death, mourned by all. Confucius wept for Zichan, calling his benevolence a legacy from ancient times.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
幽公元年，韩武子伐郑，杀幽公。
郑人立幽公弟骀，是为繻公。
繻公十五年，韩景侯伐郑，取雍丘。
郑城京。
十六年，郑伐韩，败韩兵於负黍。
二十年，韩、赵、魏列为诸侯。
二十三年，郑围韩之阳翟。
二十五年，郑君杀其相子阳。
二十七，子阳之党共弑繻公骀而立幽公弟乙为君，是为郑君。
郑君乙立二年，郑负黍反，复归韩。
十一年，韩伐郑，取阳城。
二十一年，韩哀侯灭郑，并其国。
太史公曰：语有之， 以权利合者，权利尽而交疏 ，甫瑕是也。
甫瑕虽以劫杀郑子内厉公，厉公终背而杀之，此与晋之里克何异？
守节如荀息，身死而不能存奚齐。
变所从来，亦多故矣！
translation: 
In the first year of Yougong, Han Wuzi attacked Zheng Guo and killed Yougong.
The people of Zheng appointed You Gong's younger brother as the king of the country. This was Duke Fang.
In the fifteenth year of Gong Gong's reign, Han Jinghou attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yongqiu.
Zheng Guo built the capital.
In the 16th year, Zheng Guo attacked South Korea and defeated the Korean army in Fushu.
In twenty years, Han, Zhao, and Wei became vassal states.
In the twenty-third year, Zheng Guo surrounded Yangzhai in South Korea.
In the twenty-fifth year, Zheng Jun killed Yang, the Prime Minister of the country.
In the twenty-seventh year, Ziyang's followers killed Gong Xi and made You Gong's younger brother Yi the king of the country. This was Zheng Jun.
Two years after Zheng Junyi took the throne, the people who were occupied by Zheng Guo rebelled and returned to Korea.
In the eleventh year, South Korea attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yangcheng.
In the twenty-first year, Marquis Ai of Han destroyed the State of Zheng and annexed it.
Tai Shigong said: As the saying goes, people who rely on power and interests to bond together will become estranged when the power and interests end. This is exactly the case with Fu Xia.
Although Fu Xia kidnapped and killed Zheng Zi and accepted Li Gong back as king, Li Gong eventually abandoned him and killed him. What is the difference between this approach and Jin's Rick?
But if someone like Xun Xi sticks to his integrity, he will not be able to save Xi Qi even if he dies.
Because accidents happen, there are many reasons!
summary:
Zheng's final years were marked by internal strife and Korean aggression. Duke Ai was killed, and subsequent rulers faced Korean attacks. In the twenty-first year of Zheng Junyi's reign, Marquis Ai of Han destroyed Zheng, annexing its territory. Tai Shigong reflected on the fickle nature of power and loyalty, citing Fu Xia's betrayal of Zheng Zi and Li Gong's eventual execution of him, comparing it to Jin's Rick. He noted that even steadfast figures like Xun Xi could not prevent disaster, as unforeseen events often alter outcomes.

