Chunk 0: 
original: 
郑桓公友者，周厉王少子而宣王庶弟也。
宣王立二十二年，友初封于郑。
封三十三岁，百姓皆便爱之。
幽王以为司徒。
和集周民，周民皆说，河雒之间，人便思之。
为司徒一岁，幽王以襃后故，王室治多邪，诸侯或畔之。於是桓公问太史伯曰： 王室多故，予安逃死乎？
太史伯对曰： 独雒之东土，河济之南可居。
公曰： 何以？
对曰： 地近虢、郐，虢、郐之君贪而好利，百姓不附。
今公为司徒，民皆爱公，公诚请居之，虢、郐之君见公方用事，轻分公地。
公诚居之，虢、郐之民皆公之民也。 公曰： 吾欲南之江上，何如？
对曰： 昔祝融为高辛氏火正，其功大矣，而其於周未有兴者，楚其後也。
周衰，楚必兴。
兴，非郑之利也。
公曰： 吾欲居西方，何如？
对曰： 其民贪而好利，难久居。
公曰： 周衰，何国兴者？
对曰： 齐、秦、晋、楚乎？
夫齐，姜姓，伯夷之後也，伯夷佐尧典礼。
秦，嬴姓，伯翳之後也，伯翳佐舜怀柔百物。
及楚之先，皆尝有功於天下。
而周武王克纣後，成王封叔虞于唐，其地阻险，以此有德与周衰并，亦必兴矣。 桓公曰： 善。
於是卒言王，东徙其民雒东，而虢、郐果献十邑，竟国之。
二岁，犬戎杀幽王於骊山下，并杀桓公。
郑人共立其子掘突，是为武公。
武公十年，娶申侯女为夫人，曰武姜。
生太子寤生，生之难，及生，夫人弗爱。
後生少子叔段，段生易，夫人爱之。
二十七年，武公疾。夫人请公，欲立段为太子，公弗听。
是岁，武公卒，寤生立，是为庄公。
translation: 
Duke Huan of Zheng was the youngest son of King Zhou Li and the younger brother of King Zhou Xuan.
Twenty-two years after King Xuan ascended the throne, Youcai was granted the title of Zhengdi.
He was sealed for thirty-three years, and the people all loved him.
King You appointed him as Situ.
He made the people of Zhou Dynasty live in harmony, and the people were very happy. People in the Yellow River and Luoshui basins missed him.
When he was a Situ for a year, because King You doted on Bao Si and neglected political affairs, the problems became difficult to recover. Some princes betrayed King You. So Huan Gong asked Tai Shibo: "The royal family is in serious disaster. How can I escape from death?"
Tai Shibo replied: Only the east of Luoshui and the south of the Yellow River can live in peace.
Duke Huan asked: Why?
Tai Shibo replied: The kings of the neighboring countries of Guo, Hao, Guo and Hao in that area were greedy and liked to take advantage of small things, so the people did not obey them.
Now, you are Situ, and the people love you. If you really ask to live in that area, the kings of Guo and Hao will easily give you land if they see that you are legitimate.
If you really live in that area, the people of Guo and Hao will be your people. Duke Huan: I want to live in the Yangtze River Basin in the south. How about it?
Taishi replied: In the past, Zhu Rong controlled fire for the Gao Xin family and made great contributions, but his descendants did not prosper in the Zhou Dynasty. Chu State is his descendant.
If the Zhou royal family is weak, Chu will surely prosper.
If the state of Chu prospers, it will definitely not be beneficial to the state of Zheng.
Duke Huan said; I want to live in the west, how about it?
Tai Shibo replied: The people there are greedy and profit-seeking, and it is difficult to live there for a long time.
Duke Huan said: If the Zhou royal family is weak, which country will prosper?
Tai Shibo replied: Qi, Qin, Jin, Chu, right?
Qi State, whose surname was Jiang, was a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Yao in managing the ceremonial system.
Qin, whose surname is Ying, is a descendant of Boyi, who assisted Shun in bringing many tribes into submission.
As for the ancestors of the Chu State, they have also established meritorious deeds for the people of the world.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated King Zhou, King Cheng granted the Tang Dynasty to Shuyu. The mountains and rivers there were dangerous. With these virtuous descendants coexisting with the weak Zhou family, the Jin Kingdom would definitely be able to prosper. Duke Huan said: OK.
So he quickly asked King You for instructions and moved his people to the east of Luoshui. As expected, the kings of Guo and Xi donated ten cities to him, and he finally established the state of Zheng.
In the second year, Quan Rong killed King You and Duke Huan at the foot of Mount Li.
The people of Zheng supported Duke Huan's son Jutu, who was Duke Wu.
In the tenth year of Duke Wu's reign, he married the daughter of Marquis Shen as his wife, named Wu Jiang.
Wu Jiang gave birth to the prince Wusheng, but it was difficult to deliver the baby. After the birth, his wife did not like Wusheng.
Later, Wu Jiang gave birth to a younger son, Shu Duan, who was born naturally. His wife loved Shu Duan very much.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Wu fell ill. His wife asked him to make Duan the crown prince, but Duke Wu refused.
At that time, Duke Wu passed away and Wansheng came to the throne. This was Duke Zhuang.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
庄公元年，封弟段於京，号太叔。
祭仲曰： 京大於国，非所以封庶也。
庄公曰： 武姜欲之，我弗敢夺也。
段至京，缮治甲兵，与其母武姜谋袭郑。
二十二年，段果袭郑，武姜为内应。
庄公发兵伐段，段走。伐京，京人畔段，段出走鄢。
鄢溃，段出奔共。
於是庄公迁其母武姜於城颍，誓言曰： 不至黄泉，毋相见也。
居岁馀，已悔思母。
颍谷之考叔有献於公，公赐食。
考叔曰： 臣有母，请君食赐臣母。
庄公曰： 我甚思母，恶负盟，柰何？
考叔曰： 穿地至黄泉，则相见矣。
於是遂从之，见母。
二十四年，宋缪公卒，公子冯奔郑。
郑侵周地，取禾。
二十五年，卫州吁弑其君桓公自立，与宋伐郑，以冯故也。
二十七年，始朝周桓王。桓王怒其取禾，弗礼也。
二十九年，庄公怒周弗礼，与鲁易祊、许田。
三十三年，宋杀孔父。
三十七年，庄公不朝周，周桓王率陈、蔡、虢、卫伐郑。
庄公与祭仲、高渠弥发兵自救，王师大败。祝聸射中王臂。
祝聸请从之，郑伯止之，曰： 犯长且难之，况敢陵天子乎？
乃止。
夜令祭仲问王疾。
三十八年，北戎伐齐，齐使求救，郑遣太子忽将兵救齐。
齐釐公欲妻之，忽谢曰： 我小国，非齐敌也。
时祭仲与俱，劝使取之，曰： 君多内宠，太子无大援将不立，三公子皆君也。
所谓三公子者，太子忽，其弟突，次弟子亹也。
四十三年，郑庄公卒。
translation: 
In the first year of Emperor Zhuang's reign, Duke Zhuang granted his younger brother Uncle Duan a title to the capital, and he was known as Taishu.
Ji Zhong said: The capital is larger than the capital, so it cannot be granted to a younger brother.
Duke Zhuang said: Wu Jiang wants to do this, and I dare not object.
Uncle Duan arrived in Beijing, reorganized his military equipment, and conspired with his mother Wu Jiang to attack Zhengdu.
In the twenty-second year, Shu Duan attacked Zhengdu, and Wu Jiang acted as an internal response.
Duke Zhuang sent troops to attack Shu Duan. Duan fled and Duke attacked the capital. The people in the capital betrayed Shu Duan. Shu Duan had no choice but to flee to Yan.
The people of Yanyi fled. Uncle Duan had no choice but to flee to the Republic of China.
So Zhuang Gong moved his mother Wu Jiang to Chengying and swore that he would not see her until he came to Huangquan.
More than a year later, Duke Zhuang regretted what he had said and missed his mother very much.
Uncle Kao from Yinggu presented a gift to Duke Zhuang, and Duke Zhuang gave her food.
Uncle Kao said: I have an old mother. Please give food to my mother.
Duke Zhuang said: I miss my mother very much, but I hate breaking my oath. What should I do?
Uncle Kao said: Control the tunnel to a place with spring water, and then you mother and son can meet.
So Zhuang Gong followed his method and finally saw his mother.
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Mu of Song died, and his son Feng fled to Zheng.
Zheng Guo invaded Zhou's fields and seized the crops in the fields.
In the twenty-fifth year of the year, Zhouxu of Wei State killed his own king Huan Gong and ascended the throne, and joined forces with Song State to attack Zheng State because Zheng State accepted Gongzi Feng.
In the twenty-seventh year, Zheng Juncai paid homage to King Huan of Zhou. King Huan was angry with Zheng for grabbing crops and did not treat him according to etiquette.
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Zhuang was angry that King Huan of Zhou did not treat him courteously, so he deliberately used Qi to exchange the land of Lu State, which was close to Xu State.
In the thirty-third year, the Song Dynasty killed Confucius' father.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Zhuang did not pay homage to King Huan of Zhou, so King Huan led Chen, Cai, Guo, and Wei to attack Zheng.
Zhuang Gong, Ji Zhong, and Gao Qumi sent out troops to attack and defeated King Huan's army. Zhu Yu shot King Huan in the arm.
Zhu Yu asked to continue pursuing King Huan, but Duke Zhuang stopped him and said: If you violate an elder, you will be punished, let alone insulting the emperor.
Then Zhu Yu stopped chasing.
Duke Zhuang sent Ji Zhong late at night to inquire about King Huan's arrow wound.
In the thirty-eighth year, Beirong attacked the state of Qi. The state of Qi sent envoys to the state of Zheng to ask for help. The state of Zheng sent Prince Hu to lead the army to rescue the state of Qi.
Duke Qi wanted to marry his daughter to Prince Hu. Hu resigned and said: Our country is a small country and it is not suitable to match the big country of Qi.
At that time, Ji Zhong was with the prince and persuaded the prince to agree to the marriage, saying: Our king of Zheng has many beloved concubines. The prince will not be able to ascend the throne without the help of the Taiguo. All three princes can become kings.
The three young masters mentioned by Ji Zhong include Prince Hu, his younger brother Tu, and his younger brother Zi Qian.
Forty-three years later, Duke Zhuang of Zheng passed away.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
初，祭仲甚有宠於庄公，庄公使为卿；公使娶邓女，生太子忽，故祭仲立之，是为昭公。
庄公又娶宋雍氏女，生厉公突。
雍氏有宠於宋。
宋庄公闻祭仲之立忽，乃使人诱召祭仲而执之，曰： 不立突，将死。
亦执突以求赂焉。
祭仲许宋，与宋盟。
以突归，立之。
昭公忽闻祭仲以宋要立其弟突，九月丁亥，忽出奔卫。
己亥，突至郑，立，是为厉公。
厉公四年，祭仲专国政。
厉公患之，阴使其婿雍纠欲杀祭仲。
纠妻，祭仲女也，知之，谓其母曰： 父与夫孰亲？
母曰： 父一而已，人尽夫也。
女乃告祭仲，祭仲反杀雍纠，戮之於市。
厉公无柰祭仲何，怒纠曰： 谋及妇人，死固宜哉！ 夏，厉公出居边邑栎。
祭仲迎昭公忽，六月乙亥，复入郑，即位。
秋，郑厉公突因栎人杀其大夫单伯，遂居之。
诸侯闻厉公出奔，伐郑，弗克而去。
宋颇予厉公兵，自守於栎，郑以故亦不伐栎。
昭公二年，自昭公为太子时，父庄公欲以高渠弥为卿，太子忽恶之，庄公弗听，卒用渠弥为卿。
及昭公即位，惧其杀己，冬十月辛卯，渠弥与昭公出猎，射杀昭公於野。
祭仲与渠弥不敢入厉公，乃更立昭公弟子亹为君，是为子亹也，无谥号。
子亹元年七月，齐襄公会诸侯於首止，郑子亹往会，高渠弥相，从，祭仲称疾不行。
所以然者，子亹自齐襄公为公子之时，尝会斗，相仇，及会诸侯，祭仲请子亹无行。
子亹曰： 齐彊，而厉公居栎，即不往，是率诸侯伐我，内厉公。
translation: 
At first, Ji Zhong was favored by Duke Zhuang. Duke Zhuang asked him to be a minister. Duke Zhuang asked Ji Zhong to marry a beautiful woman from Deng State for him and gave birth to Prince Hu. Therefore, Ji Zhong made Hu the king. This is Duke Zhao.
Duke Zhuang once married a woman from the Yong family of the Song Dynasty and gave birth to Li Gongtu.
Women of the Yong family are very favored by the monarch.
When Duke Zhuang of Song Dynasty heard that Ji Zhong supported Hu, he sent someone to trick Ji Zhong into arresting him, and threatened him: If you don't make Tu the king, you will be executed.
The king of Song also arrested Tu Qiu for taking bribes.
Ji Zhong agreed to the Song Dynasty and swore an alliance with the Song Dynasty king.
He was going to take Tu Tu back to his country and make Tu Tu his king.
Duke Zhao suddenly heard that Ji Zhong had proclaimed his younger brother Tu as king due to threats from the Song Dynasty. On Dinghai in the ninth month, he suddenly fled to the Wei Kingdom.
On the day of Jihai, he suddenly came to Zhengdu and took the throne. This was Duke Li.
In the fourth year of Li Gong's reign, he offered sacrifices to Zhong Zhuanquan.
Duke Li was concerned about this matter and secretly asked Ji Zhong's son-in-law to kill Ji Zhong.
Yong Jiu's wife was Ji Zhong's daughter. When she found out about this, she asked her mother: Which one is closer, father or husband?
The mother said: There is only one father, but there are many choices for husbands!
Ji Zhongnu told Ji Zhong about this, but Ji Zhong killed Yong Jiu and exposed his body in the busy market.
Duke Li was helpless with Ji Zhong, but he was very angry with Yong Jiu, saying: After discussing with the woman, he deserved to die. In the summer, Duke Li was driven to live in Queyi on the border.
Ji Zhong welcomed Zhao Gonghu, and on Yihai day in the sixth month, Hu returned to Zhengdu and ascended the throne.
In the autumn, Duke Li of Zheng relied on the people of the city to kill Uncle Shan, the official of Liyi, and settled in Liyi.
When the princes heard that Duke Li had escaped, they attacked Zheng Guo, but they left without defeating Zheng Guo.
The State of Song gave Duke Li a large number of troops and asked him to stand guard in Liyi. Therefore, the State of Zheng stopped attacking the city.
In the second year of Duke Zhao, when Duke Zhao became the crown prince, his father, Duke Zhuang, wanted to make Gao Qumi his minister. The prince suddenly disliked Gao Qumi. Duke Zhuang did not listen to Hu's advice and finally made Qumi his minister.
When Zhaogong came to the throne, Qumi was worried that Zhaogong would kill him. On Xinmao day in October in winter, Qumi and Zhaogong went hunting and shot Zhaogong in the countryside.
Ji Zhong and Qu Mi did not dare to accept Duke Li, so they made Zhao Gong's younger brother Zi Qi the king instead, and they called him Zi Qi. He had no posthumous title.
In the seventh month of the first year of Ziqian, Duke Xiang of Qi met with the princes at the first stop. Zheng Ziqian went to the meeting, assisted by Gao Qumi, who followed Ziqian there. Ji Zhong excused himself from illness.
The reason why Ji Zhong did this was because Zi Qi once fought with Xianggong of Qi when he was a prince, and the two sides became enemies. When the princes met, Ji Zhong asked Zi Qi not to go.
Zi Qian said: The state of Qi is strong and Duke Li lives in Yue. If I don't go, Qi will lead the princes to attack me and ask Duke Li to return to the capital.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
我不如往，往何遽必辱，且又何至是！
卒行。
於是祭仲恐齐并杀之，故称疾。
子亹至，不谢齐侯，齐侯怒，遂伏甲而杀子亹。
高渠弥亡归，归与祭仲谋，召子亹弟公子婴於陈而立之，是为郑子。
是岁，齐襄公使彭生醉拉杀鲁桓公。
郑子八年，齐人管至父等作乱，弑其君襄公。
十二年，宋人长万弑其君湣公。
郑祭仲死。
十四年，故郑亡厉公突在栎者使人诱劫郑大夫甫假，要以求入。
假曰： 舍我，我为君杀郑子而入君。
厉公与盟，乃舍之。
六月甲子，假杀郑子及其二子而迎厉公突，突自栎复入即位。
初，内蛇与外蛇斗於郑南门中，内蛇死。
居六年，厉公果复入。
入而让其伯父原曰： 我亡国外居，伯父无意入我，亦甚矣。
原曰： 事君无二心，人臣之职也。
原知罪矣。
遂自杀。
厉公於是谓甫假曰： 子之事君有二心矣。
遂诛之。
假曰： 重德不报，诚然哉！
厉公突後元年，齐桓公始霸。
五年，燕、卫与周惠王弟穨伐王，王出奔温，立弟穨为王。
六年，惠王告急郑，厉公发兵击周王子穨，弗胜，於是与周惠王归，王居于栎。
七年春，郑厉公与虢叔袭杀王子穨而入惠王于周。
秋，厉公卒，子文公踕立。
厉公初立四岁，亡居栎，居栎十七岁，复入，立七岁，与亡凡二十八年。
文公十七年，齐桓公以兵破蔡，遂伐楚，至召陵。
translation: 
Why don't I go there? Why will I be humiliated? And why will I end up in the situation you imagined?
Zi Qian finally went there.
Ji Zhong was worried that Qi would kill Zi Qian and his followers, so he claimed to be ill.
When Zi Qian arrived, he did not apologize to the Marquis of Qi. The Marquis of Qi was very angry, so he set up an ambush and killed Zi Qian.
Gao Qumi fled back to the state of Zheng, discussed with Ji Zhong, and called Zi Qi's younger brother Gong Ziying from the state of Chen to support him as the king. This was Zheng Zi.
That year, Duke Xianggang of Qi asked his son Peng Sheng to kill Duke Huan of Lu by breaking his ribs while he was drunk.
In the eighth year of Zheng Zi, the governor of Qi State, Zhifu, and others rebelled and killed their own monarch, Duke Xiang.
In the twelfth year of the Song Dynasty, Wan Chang, a man of the Song Dynasty, killed his own king Min Gong.
This year, Zheng Guojizhong passed away.
In the fourteenth year, the people who had fled to Liyi with Duke Li of Zheng sent someone to trick him into taking the official's leave, and coerced him to help Duke Li return to the capital to restore his throne.
Fu Ji said: Forgive me, I will kill Zheng Zi for you and let you return to the capital.
After Duke Li made a covenant with him, he released him.
On the Jiazi Day in the sixth month, Fu falsely killed Zheng Zi and his two sons, and ushered in Li Gongtu, who came back from Yue to ascend the throne.
At the beginning, there was a fight between a snake in the south gate of Zhengdu and a snake outside the city, and the snake in the city died.
Six years later, Duke Li came back again.
After Duke Li returned to Zhengdu, he blamed his uncle and said: I lost my country and went to live outside the capital, but my uncle has no intention of accepting me. This is too much.
Yuan said: Serving the king cannot have two minds. This is the duty of a minister.
I know the sin.
After that, he committed suicide.
Duke Li then said to Fu Jiu: You have two intentions in serving the king.
So he killed him.
When he was about to die, he pretended to regret and said: "It's just right that I didn't repay Zheng Zi for his great virtue and ended up like this!"
In the first year after Li Gongtu was restored to power, Qi Huangong began to dominate.
In the fifth year, the states of Yan and Wei, together with King Zhou Hui's younger brother Dai, attacked King Zhou Hui. King Hui fled to Wen, and his younger brother Dai ascended the throne as King of Zhou.
In the sixth year, King Hui appealed to the State of Zheng for help. Duke Li led an army to attack Prince Dai of Zhou, but failed to win. So Duke Li and King Hui of Zhou withdrew to the State of Zheng, and King Hui lived in Yue.
In the spring of the seventh year, Duke Li of Zheng and Uncle Guo jointly attacked and killed Prince Dai and escorted King Hui to the capital of Zhou.
In the autumn, Duke Li died, and his son Duke Wen ascended the throne.
Just four years after Li Gong took the throne, he fled to live in Yue. He lived in Yue for seventeen years and then returned to Zhengdu. He reigned for seven years, which together with the time of escape, totaled twenty-eight years.
In the seventeenth year of Duke Wen, Duke Huan of Qi led his army to defeat the State of Cai, and then attacked the State of Chu, all the way to Zhaoling.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
二十四年，文公之贱妾曰燕姞，梦天与之兰，曰： 余为伯鯈。
余，尔祖也。
以是为而子，兰有国香。
以梦告文公，文公幸之，而予之草兰为符。
遂生子，名曰兰。
三十六年，晋公子重耳过，文公弗礼。
文公弟叔詹曰： 重耳贤，且又同姓，穷而过君，不可无礼。
文公曰： 诸侯亡公子过者多矣，安能尽礼之！
詹曰： 君如弗礼，遂杀之；弗杀，使即反国，为郑忧矣。
文公弗听。
三十七年春，晋公子重耳反国，立，是为文公。
秋，郑入滑，滑听命，已而反与卫，於是郑伐滑。
周襄王使伯馃请滑。郑文公怨惠王之亡在栎，而文公父厉公入之，而惠王不赐厉公爵禄，又怨襄王之与卫滑，故不听襄王请而囚伯馃。
王怒，与翟人伐郑，弗克。
冬，翟攻伐襄王，襄王出奔郑，郑文公居王于氾。
三十八年，晋文公入襄王成周。
四十一年，助楚击晋。
自晋文公之过无礼，故背晋助楚。
四十三年，晋文公与秦穆公共围郑，讨其助楚攻晋者，及文公过时之无礼也。
初，郑文公有三夫人，宠子五人，皆以罪蚤死。
公怒，溉逐群公子。
子兰奔晋，从晋文公围郑。
时兰事晋文公甚谨，爱幸之，乃私於晋，以求入郑为太子。
晋於是欲得叔詹为僇。
郑文公恐，不敢谓叔詹言。詹闻，言於郑君曰： 臣谓君，君不听臣，晋卒为患。
然晋所以围郑，以詹，詹死而赦郑国，詹之原也。
乃自杀。
郑人以詹尸与晋。
晋文公曰： 必欲一见郑君，辱之而去。
郑人患之，乃使人私於秦曰： 破郑益晋，非秦之利也。
translation: 
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Wen had a concubine named Yan Ji. She dreamed that the Emperor of Heaven gave her an orchid and said: I am Bo Min.
I am your ancestor.
Use this orchid to be your son. The orchid has a strong and mellow aroma.
Yan Yan told Wen Gong about this dream, and Wen Gong slept with her. And gave her bluegrass as a voucher.
So Yan Ji gave birth to a son, named Lan.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Chong'er of Jin passed by the state of Zheng, and Duke Wen of Zheng was not polite to him.
Uncle Zhan, Wen Gong's younger brother, said: "Chong'er is a wise man and has the same surname as us. He passed by you when he was in poverty. You cannot be rude to him."
Duke Wen said: "There are many fugitive princes from the princes passing by here. How can I receive them according to the courtesy?"
Uncle Zhan said: "If you don't treat him politely, kill him. If you don't kill him, if he returns to the country, he will be a worry to the state of Zheng."
Duke Wen did not listen to Uncle Zhan's advice.
In the spring of the thirty-seventh year, Duke Chong'er of Jin returned to Jin and ascended the throne. He was Duke Wen of Jin.
In the autumn, the State of Zheng invaded the State of Hua, and the State of Hua only obeyed Zheng's orders. Soon, the State of Hua joined the State of Wei, so the State of Zheng attacked the State of Hua again.
King Zhou Xiang asked Bo Fu to intercede on behalf of the Hua Kingdom. Zheng Wengong resented King Hui for fleeing to Yue. It was Wen Gong's father, Li Gong, who escorted King Hui back to the throne. However, King Hui did not reward Duke Li with a salary for the throne. He also resented King Xiang for joining the Wei Kingdom and the Hua Kingdom. Therefore, Wen Gong did not listen to King Xiang's intercession for the Hua Kingdom and instead imprisoned Bo Fu.
King Xiang was very angry and united with the Zhai people to attack Zheng State, but failed to win.
In winter, the Zhai people attacked King Xiang of Zhou, and King Xiang fled to Zheng State. Zheng Wengong asked King Xiang to live in Chi.
In the thirty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Jin sent King Xiang of Zhou back to Chengzhou.
In the forty-one year, Zheng Guo helped Chu State attack Jin State.
Because Jin Wengong passed by Zheng and Zheng was rude to him, Zheng betrayed Jin and helped Chu.
Forty-three years ago, Duke Wen of Jin and Duke Mu of Qin jointly besieged the capital of Zheng. They attacked Jun Zheng for helping Chu to attack Jin, and Wen Gong passed by Jun Zheng for his rude crime.
At the beginning, Zheng Wengong had three wives and five beloved sons, all of whom died early due to their crimes.
Zheng Wengong hated Zi Xia and drove away the princes.
Zilan fled to Jin and followed Duke Wen of Jin to besiege Zhengdu.
At that time, Zilan served Duke Wen of Jin with great respect, and Duke Wen of Jin favored him very much. He acted secretly in Jin and took the opportunity to ask to return to Zheng to be the crown prince.
At this time, the state of Jin wanted to get Shu Zhan and kill him.
Duke Wen of Zheng was very frightened and did not dare to tell Uncle Zhan. When Uncle Zhan heard about this, he told Zheng Jun: I once told you that I wanted to kill Chong'er, but you didn't listen to me. Jin has finally become a worry for our country.
But the reason why Jin State besieged the capital of Zheng was because of me. If I die, I can pardon Zheng State. This is my wish.
So Uncle Zhan committed suicide.
The people of Zheng gave Uncle Zhan's body to the State of Jin.
Duke Wen of Jin said: I definitely want to see Lord Zheng and insult him before leaving.
The people of Zheng were worried about this, so they sent someone to tell Qin privately: Defeating Zheng is good for Jin, not Qin.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
秦兵罢。
晋文公欲入兰为太子，以告郑。
郑大夫石癸曰： 吾闻姞姓乃后稷之元妃，其後当有兴者。子兰母，其後也。
且夫人子尽已死，馀庶子无如兰贤。
今围急，晋以为请，利孰大焉！
遂许晋，与盟，而卒立子兰为太子，晋兵乃罢去。
四十五年，文公卒，子兰立，是为缪公。
缪公元年春，秦缪公使三将将兵欲袭郑，至滑，逢郑贾人弦高诈以十二牛劳军，故秦兵不至而还，晋败之於崤。
初，往年郑文公之卒也，郑司城缯贺以郑情卖之，秦兵故来。
三年，郑发兵从晋伐秦，败秦兵於汪。
往年楚太子商臣弑其父成王代立。
二十一年，与宋华元伐郑。
华元杀羊食士，不与其御羊斟，怒以驰郑，郑囚华元。宋赎华元，元亦亡去。
晋使赵穿以兵伐郑。
二十二年，郑缪公卒，子夷立，是为灵公。
灵公元年春，楚献鼋於灵公。
子家、子公将朝灵公，子公之食指动，谓子家曰： 佗日指动，必食异物。
及入，见灵公进鼋羹，子公笑曰： 果然！
灵公问其笑故，具告灵公。
灵公召之，独弗予羹。子公怒，染其指，尝之而出。
公怒，欲杀子公。
子公与子家谋先。
夏，弑灵公。
郑人欲立灵公弟去疾，去疾让曰： 必以贤，则去疾不肖；必以顺，则公子坚长。
坚者，灵公庶弟，去疾之兄也。
於是乃立子坚，是为襄公。
襄公立，将尽去缪氏。
缪氏者，杀灵公、子公之族家也。去疾曰： 必去缪氏，我将去之。
乃止。
皆以为大夫。
translation: 
The Qin army withdrew after hearing this.
Duke Wen of Jin sent Zilan to the State of Zheng to be crown prince and took the opportunity to inform the State of Zheng.
Shi Gui, a doctor in the state of Zheng, said: I heard that the daughter named Ji is the first wife of Houji, and her descendants should be prosperous. Zilan's mother is his descendant.
Besides, the madam's sons are all gone, and none of the remaining sons can compare with Lan Xianneng.
Now it is urgent for the Jin State to surround Zheng. The Jin State asks for Zilan's return to Zheng. There is no better condition than this!
So the state of Zheng agreed to the state of Jin, made an alliance with the state of Jin, and finally made Zilan the crown prince, and the Jin army withdrew.
In the forty-fifth year, Duke Wen of Zheng passed away and Zilan came to the throne. This was Duke Mu.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Miao, Duke Mu of Qin sent three generals to lead an army to attack the state of Zheng. When they arrived in the state of Hua, they met the merchant Xian Gao of the state of Zheng.
After the death of Duke Wen of Zheng, the garrison officer Zanhe in the capital of Zheng State betrayed the inside story of Zheng State to Qin State, so the Qin army came to attack Zheng State.
In three years, the State of Zheng sent troops to follow the State of Jin to attack the State of Qin, and defeated the Qin army in Wang.
The prince of Chu State, Shang Chen, killed his father and became king and ascended the throne.
In the twenty-first year, the Chu State and the Song State Hua Yuan attacked the Zheng State.
Hua Yuan slaughtered sheep to reward the soldiers, but did not give meat to his driver, Yang Zhen. Yang Zhen was angry and drove the chariot to Zheng State. Zheng State imprisoned Hua Yuan. Song State redeemed Hua Yuan with a large sum of money, but Hua Yuan had already escaped.
The state of Jin asked Zhao Chuan to lead his army to attack the state of Zheng.
In the twenty-second year, Duke Mu of Zheng passed away, and his son Yi came to the throne. This was Duke Lin.
In the spring of the first year of Linggong, Chu State dedicated it to Linggong turtle.
Zijia and Zi Gong were about to pay homage to Linggong. Zi Gong's index finger trembled and said to Zi Jia: My finger has moved before, so I must eat rare food.
After entering the palace, he saw Duke Ling eating turtle soup. Zigong smiled and said, "It's true."
Duke Lin asked why Zigong was laughing, and Zigong told Duke Lin the above situation.
Duke Ling called him over, but he didn't give him the soup. Zigong was very angry, so he dipped his finger in the soup and tasted it before leaving the palace.
Duke Lin was very angry and wanted to kill his son.
Zigong and Zijia Shangyi made the first move.
In summer, they killed Ling Gong.
The people of Zheng wanted to appoint Linggong's younger brother Quji, but Quji humbly said: "I must let a worthy person take the throne, and I, Quji, have no talent; I must let him take the throne in the order of eldest son and youngest son, then Prince Jian will be older than me."
Jian is Linggong's younger brother and Quji's older brother.
So he made Zijian the king, and he was Xianggong.
After Duke Xiang ascends the throne, he will kill all the Miao family.
The Miao family is the family of the son who killed Duke Ling. Qu Ji said: The Miao family must be killed, and I will leave Zheng.
Only then did Duke Xiang stop.
And appointed Miao Du as a doctor.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
襄公元年，楚怒郑受宋赂纵华元，伐郑。
郑背楚，与晋亲。
五年，楚复伐郑，晋来救之。
六年，子家卒，国人复逐其族，以其弑灵公也。
七年，郑与晋盟鄢陵。
八年，楚庄王以郑与晋盟，来伐，围郑三月，郑以城降楚。
楚王入自皇门，郑襄公肉袒掔羊以迎，曰： 孤不能事边邑，使君王怀怒以及弊邑，孤之罪也。
敢不惟命是听。
君王迁之江南，及以赐诸侯，亦惟命是听。
若君王不忘厉、宣王，桓、武公，哀不忍绝其社稷，锡不毛之地，使复得改事君王，孤之原也，然非所敢望也。
敢布腹心，惟命是听。
庄王为卻三十里而後舍。
楚群臣曰： 自郢至此，士大夫亦久劳矣。
今得国舍之，何如？
庄王曰： 所为伐，伐不服也。
今已服，尚何求乎？
卒去。
晋闻楚之伐郑，发兵救郑。
其来持两端，故迟，比至河，楚兵已去。
晋将率或欲渡，或欲还，卒渡河。
庄王闻，还击晋。
郑反助楚，大破晋军於河上。
十年，晋来伐郑，以其反晋而亲楚也。
十一年，楚庄王伐宋，宋告急于晋。
晋景公欲发兵救宋，伯宗谏晋君曰： 天方开楚，未可伐也。
乃求壮士得霍人解扬，字子虎，诓楚，令宋毋降。
过郑，郑与楚亲，乃执解扬而献楚。
楚王厚赐与约，使反其言，令宋趣降，三要乃许。於是楚登解扬楼车，令呼宋。
遂负楚约而致其晋君命曰： 晋方悉国兵以救宋，宋虽急，慎毋降楚，晋兵今至矣！
translation: 
In the first year of Xiang AD, the state of Chu was angry that the state of Zheng had accepted bribes from the state of Song, released Hua Yuan, and attacked the state of Zheng.
The state of Zheng betrayed the state of Chu and became close to the state of Jin.
Five years later, Chu State attacked Zheng State again, and Jin State came to rescue Zheng State.
In the sixth year, Zijia died, and the people of Zhengdu drove out Zijia's family because he killed Duke Ling.
In the seventh year, Zheng and Jin formed an alliance in Yanling.
In the eighth year, King Zhuang of Chu came to attack Zheng because of his alliance with Jin. He besieged the capital of Zheng for three months. Zheng surrendered the capital to Chu.
When the King of Chu entered the city from the imperial gate, Zheng Xianggong took off his shirt, exposed his arms, and held a sheep to greet the King of Chu. He said: "I cannot serve you in the border town. It is my sin to let you come to the capital of our country angrily."
I dare not take orders.
You exiled me to the south of the Yangtze River and gave Zheng to the princes, and I obeyed your orders.
If the king has not forgotten King Zhou Li, King Xuan of Zhou, Duke Huan of Zheng, and Duke Zheng Wu, and feels pity for them and cannot bear to cut off their sacrifices, you can give me a barren land so that I can serve you again. This is my wish, but I do not dare to hope.
I just took the liberty to show my sincerity and will obey your orders.
King Zhuang ordered the army to retreat thirty miles and then settled down.
The ministers of the Chu State said: We have traveled thousands of miles to get here, and the officers and soldiers have also worked hard for a long time.
Now the country that has been conquered is giving up again, why?
King Zhuang said: The reason why we attack is to attack the untamed king.
Today I am already obedient, what else do you want?
The Chu army finally withdrew.
Jin heard that Chu was attacking Zheng and sent troops to rescue him.
When the Jin army set out, the Jin army was not unanimous and was still undecided, so it arrived late. By the time it reached the Yellow River, the Chu army had already left.
Some Jin generals wanted to cross the river to pursue them, while others wanted to return home, but they finally crossed the Yellow River.
After King Zhuang heard about it, he turned around and attacked the Jin army.
Instead, Zheng helped Chu and defeated the Jin army on the Yellow River.
Ten years later, Jin came to attack Zheng again because it opposed Jin but was close to Chu.
Eleven years ago, King Zhuang of Chu attacked the State of Song, and the State of Song asked the State of Jin for help.
Jin Jinggong wanted to send troops to rescue the Song Dynasty. Bo Zong came to admonish the Jin Dynasty and said: God is helping the Chu Kingdom and cannot attack Chu.
The Jin State then found a strong man named Xie Yang, named Zihu, who was from the Huo State.
The state of Jin asked Xie Yang to deceive the state of Chu and ask the state of Song not to surrender. Xie Yang passed by the state of Zheng. The state of Zheng had a close relationship with the state of Chu, so he arrested Xie Yang and dedicated it to the state of Chu.
The King of Chu rewarded Xie Yang with a generous gift and made a covenant with him, asking him to tell the truth and ask Song to surrender quickly. The King of Chu threatened Xie Yang many times, and Xie Yang reluctantly agreed.
So the King of Chu asked Xie Yang to board the chariot where he was watching the enemy troops, and asked him to shout to the Song army. But Xie Yang actually broke the agreement with the Chu people, conveyed the order given to him by the Jin Jun, and shouted loudly: The Jin State is gathering all the troops from all over the country to rescue the Song State. Although the Song State is in an urgent situation, it must not surrender to the Chu State. The Jin Army will arrive soon!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
楚庄王大怒，将杀之。
解扬曰： 君能制命为义，臣能承命为信。
受吾君命以出，有死无陨。
庄王曰： 若之许我，已而背之，其信安在？
解扬曰： 所以许王，欲以成吾君命也。
将死，顾谓楚军曰： 为人臣无忘尽忠得死者！
楚王诸弟皆谏王赦之，於是赦解扬使归。
晋爵之为上卿。
十八年，襄公卒，子悼公晞立。
悼公元年，鄦公恶郑於楚，悼公使弟睔於楚自讼。
讼不直，楚囚睔。
於是郑悼公来与晋平，遂亲。
睔私於楚子反，子反言归睔於郑。
二年，楚伐郑，晋兵来救。
是岁，悼公卒，立其弟睔，是为成公。
成公三年，楚共王曰 郑成公孤有德焉 ，使人来与盟。成公私与盟。
秋，成公朝晋，晋曰 郑私平於楚 ，执之。
使栾书伐郑。
四年春，郑患晋围，公子如乃立成公庶兄繻为君。
其四月，晋闻郑立君，乃归成公。
郑人闻成公归，亦杀君繻，迎成公。
晋兵去。
十年，背晋盟，盟於楚。
晋厉公怒，发兵伐郑。
楚共王救郑。
晋楚战鄢陵，楚兵败，晋射伤楚共王目，俱罢而去。
十三年，晋悼公伐郑，兵於洧上。
郑城守，晋亦去。
十四年，成公卒，子恽立。是为釐公。
釐公五年，郑相子驷朝釐公，釐公不礼。
子驷怒，使厨人药杀釐公，赴诸侯曰 釐公暴病卒 。
立釐公子嘉，嘉时年五岁，是为简公。
简公元年，诸公子谋欲诛相子驷，子驷觉之，反尽诛诸公子。
二年，晋伐郑，郑与盟，晋去。
冬，又与楚盟。
子驷畏诛，故两亲晋、楚。
三年，相子驷欲自立为君，公子子孔使尉止杀相子驷而代之。
子孔又欲自立。
translation: 
The King of Chu was very angry when he heard this and was about to kill Xie Yang.
Xie Yang said: It is the duty of the king to formulate orders, and it is the duty of his subjects to carry out the orders.
I accept the order of the king of our country and go abroad to do business. I would rather die than let the king's life be harmed.
King Zhuang said: So, you have promised me and then betrayed me. Where is your credit?
Xie Yang said: The reason why I agreed to you is to use it to fulfill the order of our king.
When Xie Yang was about to be executed, he turned around and said to the Chu army: As a minister, you must not forget to be loyal and then die!
The younger brothers of the King of Chu all went to the King of Chu to pardon Xie Yang, so the King of Chu pardoned him and allowed him to return to the Kingdom of Jin.
The State of Jin granted him the title of Shangqing.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Xiang passed away, and his son Duke Yu came to the throne.
In the first year of mourning, Duke Xu Linggong went to Chu to slander Zheng, so Duke asked his younger brother to go to Chu to defend himself.
His defense was unsuccessful and he was imprisoned by the State of Chu.
So Duke Zheng came to Jin to talk about reconciliation between the two countries.
He had friendship with Zi Fan of Chu State, and Zi Fan interceded for his release to the State of Zheng.
In the second year, the state of Chu attacked the state of Zheng, and the Jin army came to rescue him.
That year, when Duke Du passed away, Zheng Guoliang appointed Duke Duke's younger brother, Cheng Gong.
In the third year of Chenggong's reign, the King of the Communist Party of Chu said: I am kind to Zheng Cheng. Then he sent people to Zheng to make an alliance with Duke Cheng.
Duke Cheng secretly formed an alliance with Chu. In the autumn, Duke Cheng paid homage to the state of Jin. Jin said: "The state of Zheng secretly made peace with Chu and arrested Duke Cheng."
And sent Luan Shu to attack Zheng Guo.
In the spring of the fourth year, the state of Zheng was worried that the state of Jin would come to surround him, so the son decided to make his elder brother the king.
In April of that year, Jin heard that Zheng had established a new king and asked Duke Cheng to return to the country.
When the people of Zheng heard that Duke Cheng had returned to the country, they killed him to welcome him.
The Jin army withdrew.
Ten years later, the state of Zheng betrayed its alliance with the state of Jin and formed an alliance with the state of Chu.
Duke Li of Jin was very angry and sent troops to attack Zheng Guo.
The King of the Communist Party of Chu rescued Zheng Guo.
Jin and Chu fought at Yanling. The Chu army failed. The Jin army shot the King of Chu in the eye, and the two sides ceased fighting and left.
In the thirteenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Duke Dao of Jin attacked Zheng Guo and stationed his troops in Weishang.
The Zheng army defended the city, and the Jin army also left.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Cheng passed away and his son Hui came to the throne. This was Duke Li.
In the fifth year of Ligong's reign, Si, the Prime Minister of the State of Zheng, went to pay homage to Ligong, but Ligong was not polite to him.
Zi Si was very angry and asked the cook to kill Li Gong with poison. He announced to the princes that Li Gong had died of a sudden illness.
Li Ligong's son Jia was born. Jia was five years old at that time. This was Jian Gong.
In the first year of Jian AD, the princes planned to kill Zi Si, the Prime Minister of the country. Zi Si found out and killed all the princes.
In the second year, the State of Jin attacked the State of Zheng. The State of Zheng formed an alliance with the State of Jin, and the State of Jin left.
In winter, Zheng Guo entered into an alliance with Chu State.
Zisi was afraid of being killed, so he was close to both Jin and Chu.
In the third year, the prime minister Zi Si wanted to establish himself as the king. The prince Kong sent Wei Zhi to kill the prime minister Zi Si in his place.
Zi Kong also wanted to establish himself as king.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
子产曰： 子驷为不可，诛之，今又效之，是乱无时息也。
於是子孔从之而相郑简公。
四年，晋怒郑与楚盟，伐郑，郑与盟。
楚共王救郑，败晋兵。
简公欲与晋平，楚又囚郑使者。
十二年，简公怒相子孔专国权，诛之，而以子产为卿。
十九年，简公如晋请卫君还，而封子产以六邑。
子产让，受其三邑。
二十二年，吴使延陵季子於郑，见子产如旧交，谓子产曰： 郑之执政者侈，难将至，政将及子。
子为政，必以礼；不然，郑将败。
子产厚遇季子。
二十三年，诸公子争宠相杀，又欲杀子产。
公子或谏曰： 子产仁人，郑所以存者子产也，勿杀！
乃止。
二十五年，郑使子产於晋，问平公疾。
平公曰： 卜而曰实沈、台骀为祟，史官莫知，敢问？
对曰： 高辛氏有二子，长曰阏伯，季曰实沈，居旷林，不相能也，日操干戈以相征伐。后帝弗臧，迁阏伯于商丘，主辰，商人是因，故辰为商星。迁实沈于大夏，主参，唐人是因，服事夏、商，其季世曰唐叔虞。
当武王邑姜方娠大叔，梦帝谓己： 余命而子曰虞，乃与之唐，属之参而蕃育其子孙。
及生有文在其掌曰 虞 ，遂以命之。
及成王灭唐而国大叔焉。
故参为晋星。
由是观之，则实沈，参神也。
昔金天氏有裔子曰昧，为玄冥师，生允格、台骀。
台骀能业其官，宣汾、洮，障大泽，以处太原。
帝用嘉之，国之汾川。
沈、姒、蓐、黄实守其祀。
今晋主汾川而灭之。
由是观之，则台骀，汾、洮神也。
然是二者不害君身。山川之神，则水旱之菑禜之；日月星辰之神，则雪霜风雨不时禜之；若君疾，饮食哀乐女色所生也。
translation: 
Zichan said: Zisi cannot stand on his own, so you killed him, and today you imitate him. In this way, the civil strife will never subside.
So Zi Kong listened to Zi Chan's advice and still only became the prime minister of Zheng Jiangong.
In the fourth year, Jin was angry that Zheng had made an alliance with Chu and attacked Zheng. Zheng also formed an alliance with Jin.
The King of the Communist Party of Chu rescued Zheng Guo and defeated the Jin army.
Duke Jian wanted to make peace with Jin, but Chu imprisoned Zheng's envoys.
In the twelfth year, Duke Jian was very angry that Zi Kong, the prime minister, had monopolized power. He killed Zi Kong and made Zi Chan the minister.
In the 19th year, Duke Jian came to Jin and interceded with Lord Wei to allow him to return to the country. He also granted six towns to Zichan.
Zichan resigned and only accepted three cities.
In the 22nd year, the state of Wu sent Yanling Jizi to Zhengguo. Yanlingjizi and Zichan hit it off and said to Zichan: There are many people in power in Zheng who are doing evil. Disaster is about to happen, and the power will fall into your hands.
If you are in power, you must govern the country according to etiquette; otherwise, Zheng will suffer a disastrous defeat.
Zi Chan met Ji Zi favorably.
In the twenty-three years, the princes competed for favor and killed each other, and they also wanted to kill Zichan.
Some princes came to remonstrate and said: Zichan is a benevolent person. The reason why Zheng can survive is because of Zichan. Don't kill him!
The young men just gave up.
In the twenty-fifth year, the state of Zheng sent Zi Chan to the state of Jin to inquire about Duke Ping's condition.
Duke Ping asked: After my divination, I said they were Shi Shen and Tai Ni Zuo Chong. The historian does not know their origins, so I take the liberty to ask what kind of gods they are.
Zichan replied: The Gaoxin family had two sons. The eldest son was called Yan Bo and the second son was named Shi Shen. They lived in the big forest and couldn't tolerate each other. They fought against each other every day. Emperor Yao didn't like them, so he moved to Shangqiu to preside over sacrifices. Merchants continued to worship Chenxing, so Chenxing was called Shangxing. Emperor Yao asked Shi Shen to live in Daxia and presided over the sacrifice of Chenxing. The people of the Tang Dynasty followed it and served the Xia and Shang dynasties. The last monarch of the Tang Dynasty was called Tang Shuyu.
When King Wu's wife, Yi Jiang, was pregnant with her uncle, she dreamed that the Emperor of Heaven said to her: "I will name your son Yu, so I gave him the Tang Dynasty title and entrusted him to sacrifice to Ginseng and breed offspring there."
After the uncle was born, the texture on his palms resembled the character "Yu", so he was named after "Yu".
After King Zhou Cheng destroyed the Tang Dynasty, he gave the Tang Dynasty title to his uncle.
Therefore, Shenxing is the star of the Jin Kingdom.
From this we learned that Shi Shen is the god of the ginseng star.
In the past, Jin Tianshi had a descendant named Mei who was a water official and gave birth to Yunge and Taiyi.
Tai Ni could inherit the official position of his predecessors, dredged the Fen River and Tao River well, built embankments for Daze, and lived in Taiyuan.
Emperor Zhuanxu rewarded him for this and sealed Fenshui to him.
Shen, Si, Piao, and Huang Guo were actually in charge of his sacrifices.
Now, Jin ruled the Fen River Basin and destroyed the countries in this area.
From here, Tai Ni is the god of Fen and Tao rivers.
However, these two gods will not harm your body. For the gods of mountains and rivers, sacrifices should be made when floods and droughts occur. For the gods of the sun, moon and stars, sacrifices should be made when snow, frost, wind and rain come out of season. If you are sick, it is caused by eating, drinking, music, and women.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
平公及叔乡曰： 善，博物君子也！
厚为之礼於子产。
二十七年夏，郑简公朝晋。
冬，畏楚灵王之彊，又朝楚，子产从。
二十八年，郑君病，使子产会诸侯，与楚灵王盟於申，诛齐庆封。
三十六年，简公卒，子定公宁立。
秋，定公朝晋昭公。
定公元年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王而自立，为平王。
欲行德诸侯。归灵王所侵郑地于郑。
四年，晋昭公卒，其六卿彊，公室卑。
子产谓韩宣子曰： 为政必以德，毋忘所以立。
六年，郑火，公欲禳之。
子产曰： 不如修德。
八年，楚太子建来奔。
十年，太子建与晋谋袭郑。
郑杀建，建子胜奔吴。
十一年，定公如晋。
晋与郑谋，诛周乱臣，入敬王于周。
十三年，定公卒，子献公虿立。
献公十三年卒，子声公胜立。
当是时，晋六卿彊，侵夺郑，郑遂弱。
声公五年，郑相子产卒，郑人皆哭泣，悲之如亡亲戚。
子产者，郑成公少子也。
为人仁爱人，事君忠厚。
孔子尝过郑，与子产如兄弟云。
及闻子产死，孔子为泣曰： 古之遗爱也！
八年，晋范、中行氏反晋，告急於郑，郑救之。
晋伐郑，败郑军於铁。
十四年，宋景公灭曹。
二十年，齐田常弑其君简公，而常相於齐。
二十二年，楚惠王灭陈。
孔子卒。
三十六年，晋知伯伐郑，取九邑。
三十七年，声公卒，子哀公易立。
哀公八年，郑人弑哀公而立声公弟丑，是为共公。
共公三年，三晋灭知伯。
三十一年，共公卒，子幽公已立。
translation: 
After discussing this with Zichan, Duke Ping and his uncle praised him and said: Yes, you are truly worthy of being a knowledgeable gentleman!
Give your son a generous gift.
In the summer of the twenty-seventh year, Duke Jiang of Zheng went to pay homage to the king of Jin.
In the winter, the state of Zheng was afraid that King Ling of Chu was powerful, so he paid homage to the state of Chu, and Zichan followed him.
In the twenty-eighth year, Zheng Jun fell ill and sent Zichan to meet with the princes and make an alliance with King Ling of Chu in Shen. King Chu killed Qi Guo Qingfeng.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Jian passed away, and his son Ding Gongning came to the throne.
In autumn, Duke Dinggong paid homage to Duke Zhao of Jin.
In the first year of Ding AD, the prince of Chu State Qi Ji killed the king of the country, King Ling, and established himself as king. This was King Ping.
King Ping wanted to do something benevolent and moral among the princes, so he returned all the land that King Ling had invaded from Zheng to Zheng.
In four years, Jin Zhaogong passed away. The six ministers of Jin became stronger and the country's power weakened.
Zichan said to Han Xuanzi: To hold power must be based on benevolence, righteousness and morality, and do not forget the reasons for the consolidation of power.
In the sixth year, a fire broke out in the state of Zheng, and Duke Din wanted to pray to ward off the disaster.
Zichan said: It is better to practice virtuous government.
In the eighth year, Prince Jian of Chu State fled to Zheng State.
In the tenth year, Prince Jian discussed with Jin State to attack Zheng State.
Zheng Guo killed Prince Jian, and Prince Jian's son fled to Wu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Dinggong arrived in Jin.
Jin and Zheng negotiated to kill the rebellious ministers of the Zhou royal family and send King Jing back to Zhou.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Ding passed away and his son Xiangong Hui came to the throne.
Duke Xian died in the thirteenth year, and his son Sheng Gongsheng ascended the throne.
At this time, the six ministers of Jin became stronger and invaded Zheng's territory, causing Zheng to decline.
In the fifth year of Duke Sheng's reign, the Prime Minister of Zheng died. The people of Zheng all cried, mourning for him as they mourned for their own relatives.
Zichan is the youngest son of Zheng Chenggong.
Be kind and caring to others, serve the king with loyalty and honesty.
Confucius once passed by the state of Zheng and was as close as brothers to Zichan.
When he heard that Zichan had died, Confucius cried sadly: Zichan's benevolence is really a legacy from ancient times!
In the eighth year, the Fan and Zhongxing clans of Jin rebelled against Jin. Jin asked Zheng for help, and Zheng rescued them.
The Jin State therefore attacked the Zheng State and defeated Zheng's army at Tieba.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Jinggong of Song Dynasty destroyed Cao State.
Twenty years later, Tian Chang of the State of Qi killed his own monarch, Duke Jian, and Tian Chang became the Prime Minister of the State of Qi.
In the twenty-second year, King Hui of Chu destroyed the state of Chen.
Confucius passed away.
In the thirty-sixth year, Zhibo of Jin State attacked Zheng State and captured nine cities.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Sheng passed away, and his son Duke Ai came to the throne.
In the eighth year of Duke Ai, the people of Zheng killed Duke Ai and made Chou, the younger brother of Duke Sheng, the king of the country.
In the third year of Gong Gong's reign, the three Jin Dynasties destroyed Zhibo.
In the thirty-first year, Gonggong passed away, and his son Yougong came to the throne.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
幽公元年，韩武子伐郑，杀幽公。
郑人立幽公弟骀，是为繻公。
繻公十五年，韩景侯伐郑，取雍丘。
郑城京。
十六年，郑伐韩，败韩兵於负黍。
二十年，韩、赵、魏列为诸侯。
二十三年，郑围韩之阳翟。
二十五年，郑君杀其相子阳。
二十七，子阳之党共弑繻公骀而立幽公弟乙为君，是为郑君。
郑君乙立二年，郑负黍反，复归韩。
十一年，韩伐郑，取阳城。
二十一年，韩哀侯灭郑，并其国。
太史公曰：语有之， 以权利合者，权利尽而交疏 ，甫瑕是也。
甫瑕虽以劫杀郑子内厉公，厉公终背而杀之，此与晋之里克何异？
守节如荀息，身死而不能存奚齐。
变所从来，亦多故矣！
translation: 
In the first year of Yougong, Han Wuzi attacked Zheng Guo and killed Yougong.
The people of Zheng appointed You Gong's younger brother as the king of the country. This was Duke Fang.
In the fifteenth year of Gong Gong's reign, Han Jinghou attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yongqiu.
Zheng Guo built the capital.
In the 16th year, Zheng Guo attacked South Korea and defeated the Korean army in Fushu.
In twenty years, Han, Zhao, and Wei became vassal states.
In the twenty-third year, Zheng Guo surrounded Yangzhai in South Korea.
In the twenty-fifth year, Zheng Jun killed Yang, the Prime Minister of the country.
In the twenty-seventh year, Ziyang's followers killed Gong Xi and made You Gong's younger brother Yi the king of the country. This was Zheng Jun.
Two years after Zheng Junyi took the throne, the people who were occupied by Zheng Guo rebelled and returned to Korea.
In the eleventh year, South Korea attacked Zheng Guo and captured Yangcheng.
In the twenty-first year, Marquis Ai of Han destroyed the State of Zheng and annexed it.
Tai Shigong said: As the saying goes, people who rely on power and interests to bond together will become estranged when the power and interests end. This is exactly the case with Fu Xia.
Although Fu Xia kidnapped and killed Zheng Zi and accepted Li Gong back as king, Li Gong eventually abandoned him and killed him. What is the difference between this approach and Jin's Rick?
But if someone like Xun Xi sticks to his integrity, he will not be able to save Xi Qi even if he dies.
Because accidents happen, there are many reasons!


