Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝哀皇帝，元帝庶孙，定陶恭王子也。
母曰丁姬。
年三岁嗣立为王，长好文辞法律。
元延四年入朝，尽从傅、相、中尉。
时成帝少弟中山孝王亦来朝，独从傅。
上怪之，以问定陶王，对曰： 令，诸侯王朝，得从其国二千石。
傅、相、中尉皆国二千石，故尽从之。
上令诵《诗》，通习，能说。
他日问中山王： 独从傅在何法令？
不能对。
令诵《尚书》，又废。
及赐食于前，后饱；起下，袜系解。
成帝由此以为不能，而贤定陶王，数称其材。
时王祖母傅太后随王来朝，私赂遗上所幸赵昭仪及帝舅票骑将军曲阳侯王根。
昭仪及根见上亡子，亦欲豫自结为长久计，皆更称定陶王，劝帝以为嗣。
成帝亦自美其材，为加元服而遣之，时年十七矣。
明年，使执金吾任宏守大鸿胪，持节征定陶王，立为皇太子。
谢曰： 臣幸得继父守籓为诸侯王，材质不足以假充太子之宫。
陛下圣德宽仁，敬承祖宗，奉顺神祇，宜蒙福晁子孙千亿之报。
臣愿且得留国邸，旦夕奉问起居，俟有圣嗣，归国守籓。
书奉，天子报闻。
后月余，立楚孝王孙景为定陶王，奉恭王祀，所以奖厉太子专为后之谊。
语在《外戚传》。
绥和二年三月，成帝崩。
四月丙午，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
尊皇太后曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoai was the grandson of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty and the son of Prince Dingtao Gong.
The mother is Ding Ji.
He became king at the age of three, and became interested in literature and law as an adult.
In the fourth year of Yuanyan's reign, he went to the capital to see Emperor Cheng, and his Fu, Xiang, and lieutenants all came together.
At this time, Emperor Cheng's younger brother, Prince Xiao of Zhongshan, also came to see him, but only Fu Tong came.
The emperor was puzzled, so he asked King Dingtao. King Dingtao replied: "The imperial court has issued an order. When princes and kings come to court, their officials with a title of two thousand stones should come together."
Fu, Xiang, and Lieutenant all have two thousand stones, so they should all come together.
The emperor asked him to recite "Poetry", and he was familiar with it and could explain its meaning.
Another day, Emperor Cheng asked King Zhongshan: "Which decree is it based on when Fu Tong comes?"
King Zhongshan was speechless.
I asked him to recite the Book of Documents, but he forgot about it again.
Emperor Cheng invited him to dinner, but he was still eating after everyone else had finished. When he left the table, even his garter belt fell off.
When Emperor Cheng saw this, he thought King Zhongshan was incompetent, but he liked King Dingtao very much and often praised his talents.
At this time, Queen Mother Fu, the grandmother of King Dingtao, accompanied her to the court and privately presented gifts to Emperor Cheng's favorite Zhao Zhaoyi and his uncle, Hussar General and Quyanghou Wanggen.
Zhao Zhaoyi and Wang Gen saw that the emperor had no children and wanted to establish a relationship with a suitable prince as soon as possible to maintain their long-term wealth, so they praised King Dingtao and persuaded Emperor Cheng to make him the prince.
Emperor Cheng also admired King Dingtao's talents, so he held an adult crowning ceremony for him in the court and sent him back to his fiefdom, Dingtao. He was seventeen years old at this time.
In the second year, the emperor sent Jinwu Renhong to act as Dahonglu. With the imperial edict, he summoned King Dingtao and established him as the crown prince.
King Dingtao thanked Zhao and said: I am fortunate enough to inherit my late father's vassal status and become the prince of the vassals. However, my talents and virtues are not enough to enter the prince's palace.
Your Majesty is holy, virtuous and generous. He respects his ancestors and obeys the gods. He deserves to be blessed by heaven and have many children and grandchildren.
I would like to temporarily stay in the Kyoto residence and ask about the emperor's daily life in the morning and evening. After the emperor has a holy heir, he will return to the feudal state and guard the vassal.
After the book was written, the emperor said that everything was known.
More than a month later, an edict was issued to establish Liu Jing, the grandson of King Xiao of Chu, as King Dingtao, and to offer sacrifices to King Dingtao Gong. This was to reward the prince for paying attention to Zongtao's character.
The specific records are in "Hanshu·Biography of Waiqi".
In March of the second year of Suihe, Emperor Cheng died.
On the fourth day of April, the prince became the emperor and paid a visit to the Temple of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Respect the Queen Mother as the Queen Mother and the Queen as the Queen Mother.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
大赦天下。赐宗室王子有属者马各一驷，吏民爵，百户牛酒，三老、孝弟、力田、鳏、寡、孤、独帛。
太皇太后诏尊定陶恭王为恭皇。
五月丙戌，立皇后傅氏。诏曰： 《春秋》 母以子贵 ，奠定陶太后曰恭皇太后，丁姬曰恭皇后，各置左右詹事，食邑如长信宫、中宫。
追尊傅父为崇祖侯、丁父为褒德侯。
封舅丁明为阳安侯，舅丁满为平周侯。
追谥满父忠为平周怀侯，皇后父晏为孔乡侯，皇太后弟侍中光禄大夫赵钦为新成侯。
六月，诏曰： 郑声淫而乱乐，圣王所放，其罢乐府。
曲阳侯根前以大司马建社稷策，益封二千户。
太仆安阳侯舜辅导有旧恩，益封五百户，及丞相孔光、大司空汜乡侯何武益封各千户。
诏曰： 河间王良丧太后三年，为宗室仪表，益封万户。
又曰： 制节谨度以防奢淫，为政所先，百王不易之道也。
诸侯王、列侯、公主、吏二千石及豪富民多畜奴婢，田宅亡限，与民争利，百姓失职，重困不足。
其议限列。
有司条奏： 诸王、列侯得名田国中，列侯在长安及公主名田县道，关内侯、吏民名田，皆无得过三十顷。
诸侯王奴婢二百人，列侯、公主百人，关内侯、吏民三十人。
年六十以上，十岁以下，不在数中。
贾人皆不得名田、为吏，犯者以律论。
诸名田、畜、奴婢过品，皆没入县官。
齐三服官、诸官织绮绣，难成，害女红之物，皆止，无作输。
除任子令及诽谤诋欺法。
掖庭宫人年三十以下，出嫁之。
官奴婢五十以上，免为庶人。
禁郡国无得献名兽。
益吏三百石以下奉。
translation: 
Under the amnesty, each of the princes of the clan who are still in the fifth service will be rewarded with a horse, the officials and the people will be given titles, and each hundred households will be given a certain amount of cattle and wine.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict to honor Prince Tao Gong as Emperor Gong.
On May 19th, she made Mrs. Fu the empress and issued an edict: "Spring and Autumn" said that the mother is more valuable than the son. Now, Empress Dowager Ding Tao is honored as Empress Dowager Gong, and Ding Ji is empress Gong. Each has appointed provincial officials on the left and right, and the food is the same as that of the Empress Dowager and the Empress.
The father of Empress Dowager Fu was posthumously named Chongzuhou, and the father of Empress Gong and Ding Ji was given the title of Baodehou.
His uncle Ding Ming was granted the title of Marquis of Yang'an, and his uncle's son Ding Man was granted the title of Marquis of Pingzhou.
Ding Zhong, the father of Ding Man, was posthumously named Huaihou of Pingzhou, Fu Yan, the queen's father, was named Kongxiang Hou, and Zhao Qin, the empress dowager's younger brother, Zhao Qin, the official of Guanglu, was named Xinchenghou.
In the sixth month, an edict was issued saying: "Zheng Sheng's lewd and promiscuous music has been abandoned by the saints. He is now dismissed from Yuefu."
Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, once suggested to the Grand Sima that he establish a crown prince to stabilize the country and grant 2,000 households.
The servant Anyang Hou Shun had an old favor and granted five hundred households. In addition, the Prime Minister Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Si Xiang Hou Hewu each granted a thousand households.
The edict said: Wang Liang of Hejian has been in mourning for the Queen Mother for three years. He is an example of the clan and has granted 10,000 households.
The edict also said: The primary task of government is to exercise moderation, prudence and moderation to prevent extravagance and debauchery. It is an unchangeable common law in the past dynasties.
There are princes, princes, princesses, officials with two thousand stones, rich people, many slaves and maids, and unlimited fields and houses. They compete with the people for profit, causing the people to lose their regular business and be in serious trouble.
Restrictive regulations should be formulated.
Relevant officials wrote: The land that each king and prince can occupy in his or her feudal state, the land that princes can occupy in Chang'an and the princess in each county, and the land that princes and officials in Guan Nei can occupy must not exceed thirty hectares.
There are 200 slaves and maidservants from each prince, 100 princes and princesses, and 30 officials and people from Guannei.
Those aged over sixty and under ten are not included in this amount.
No businessman is allowed to occupy land or serve as an official, and offenders will be punished according to law.
Anyone whose land occupation and livestock and maidservants exceeded the quota were not included in the county magistrate's income.
The fine embroidery woven by the officials and other officials in Qi San was stopped because it was too complex and too complex to be made, which would harm the female workers, and those that had already been made were not allowed to be presented.
The law of appointing a son to be a husband after being appointed to the post of two thousand stone for three years and the law of defamation and false accusation were revoked.
Those who live in the inner palace under the age of thirty can get married.
Official slaves who are over fifty years old are exempted from the status of slaves and become commoners.
The county is not allowed to offer rare birds and animals.
Increase the salary of officials below three hundred stones.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
察吏残贼酷虐者，以时退。
有司无得举赦前往事。
博士弟子父母死，予宁三年。
秋，曲阳侯王根、成都侯王况皆有罪，根就国，况免为庶人，归故郡。
诏曰： 朕承宗庙之重，战战兢兢，惧失天心。
间者日月亡光，五星失行，郡国比比地动。
乃者河南、颍川郡水出，流杀人民，坏败庐舍。
朕之不德，民反蒙辜，朕甚惧焉。
已遣光禄大夫循行举籍，赐死者棺钱，人三千。
其令水所伤县邑及他郡国灾害什四以上，民赀不满十万，皆无出今年租赋。
建平元年春正月，赦天下。
侍中骑都尉新成侯赵钦、成阳侯赵皆有罪，免为庶人，徙辽西。
太皇太后诏外家王氏田非冢茔，皆以赋贫民。
二月，诏曰： 盖闻圣王之治，以得贤为首。
其与大司马、列侯、将军、中二千石、州牧、守、相举孝弟厚能直言通政事，延于侧陋可亲民者，各一人。
三月，赐诸侯王、公主、列侯、丞相、将军、中二千石、中都、郎吏金、钱、帛，各有差。
冬，中山孝王太后媛、弟宜乡侯冯参有罪，皆自杀。
二年春三月，罢大司空，复御史大夫。
夏四月，诏曰： 汉家之制，推亲亲以显尊尊。
定陶恭皇之号不宜复称定陶。
尊恭皇太后曰帝太太后，称永信宫；恭皇后曰帝太后，称中安宫。
立恭皇庙于京师。
赦天下徒。
罢州牧，复刺史。
六月庚申，帝太后丁氏崩。
上曰： 朕闻夫妇一体。
《诗》云： 谷则异室，死则同穴。
昔季武子成寝，杜氏之殡在西阶下，请合葬而许之。
translation: 
If the official who presided over the inspection was cruel and cruel, he was immediately removed from office when discovered.
Relevant officials may not aggravate or pardon old cases that have been dealt with previously.
When a doctor's disciple's parents die, they are given a three-year mourning period when they return home.
In autumn, both Quyanghou Wanggen and Chengduhou Wangkuang were guilty. Wang Gen left the capital and went to the fiefdom. Wang Kuang reduced his position to serve as a civilian and returned to his hometown.
The edict was issued: "I inherit the important task of unification, and I am afraid of losing my will."
Recently, the sun and moon have lost their light, the five elements have lost their movement, and earthquakes often occur in the county.
At the same time, the Yellow River burst in Henan and Yingchuan counties, drowning people and destroying houses.
My virtue is shallow. I am deeply afraid that the people will suffer.
Dr. Guanglu has been sent to inspect the disaster area to collect their names and give the deceased three thousand for the cost of the coffin.
Flood-stricken counties and other counties and counties whose incomes have been reduced by more than 40% due to the disaster, and whose people's assets are less than 100,000 yuan, will be exempted from rent and taxes this year.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Jianping, the world was pardoned.
Zhao Xin, the Marquis of Xincheng, and Marquis of Chengyang, Zhao Yunjin, both of whom were guilty of the crime, were deposed as commoners and moved to western Liaoning.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The Wang family's land, which is owned by my maternal relatives, is not a graveyard, and is all given to the poor for cultivation.
In February, the emperor issued an edict saying: I have heard that the holy king was able to make the country peaceful and the people safe, and it was actually his ability to employ talented people.
Now the imperial edict is issued to the Grand Sima, Lieutenants, Generals, Zhong Erqian Shi, Zhou Mu, Shou, etc. to recommend one person to each of them.
In the third month, give the princes, princesses, princes, prime ministers, prime ministers, generals, two thousand stones in the middle, and money and cloth to the officials and officials in the capital, each with different levels.
冬季，中山孝王太后冯媛、太后弟宜乡侯冯参有罪，全都自杀了。
In the spring and March of the second year, the chief minister was dismissed and the imperial censor was restored.
In April of summer, an edict was issued saying: According to the Han family system, the emperor's closest relatives should be treated with the utmost respect.
The title of Emperor Gong of Dingtao should no longer be called Dingtao.
After empress dowager Gong was honored as the emperor's wife, it was called Yongxin Palace; empress Gong was called the emperor's empress dowager, and it was called Zhong'an Palace.
The Gonghuang Temple was built in the capital.
Pardon the exiled criminals in the world.
The state pastor was dismissed and the governor was restored.
On the fifth day of June, Empress Dowager Ding passed away.
The emperor said: I heard that the husband and wife are one.
"Poetry" says: Life is different from the inner and outer rooms, and death is the same as the cave of the tomb.
After the tomb of Ji Wuzi, the former Lu doctor, was built, his wife Du's funeral was under the west steps. The descendants requested to be buried together and got permission.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
附葬之礼，自周兴焉。 郁郁乎文哉！
吾从周。
孝子事亡如事存。
帝太后宜起陵恭皇之园。
遂葬定陶。
发陈留、济阴近郡国五万人穿复土。
待诏夏贺良等言赤精子之谶，汉家历运中衰，当再受命，宜改元、易号。
诏曰： 汉兴二百载，历数开元。
皇天降非材之佑，汉国再获受命之符，朕之不德，曷敢不通！
夫基事之元命，必与天下自新，其大赦天下。
以建平二年为太初元年。号曰陈圣刘太平皇帝。
漏刻以百二十为度。
七月，以渭城西北原上永陵亭部为初陵。
勿徙郡国民，使得自安。
八月，诏曰： 待诏夏贺良等建言改元、易号，增益漏刻，可以永安国家。
朕过听贺良等言，冀为海内获福，卒亡嘉应。
皆违经背古，不合时宜。
六月甲子制书，非赦令也皆蠲除之。
贺良等反道惑众，下有司。
皆伏辜。
丞相博、御史大夫玄、孔乡侯晏有罪。
博自杀，玄减死二等论，晏削户四分之一。
语在《博传》。
三年春正月，立广德夷王弟广汉为广平王。
癸卯，帝太太后所居桂宫正殿火。
三月己酉，丞相当薨。
有星孛于河鼓。
夏六月，立鲁顷王子郚乡侯闵为王。
冬十一月壬子，复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土祠，罢南、北郊。
东平王云、云后谒、安成恭侯夫人放皆有罪。云自杀，谒、放弃市。
四年春，大旱。
关东民传行西王母筹，经历郡国，西入关至京师。
民又会聚祠西王母，或夜持火上屋，击鼓号呼相惊恐。
translation: 
The burial ceremony has been around since the Zhou Dynasty. Confucius said: The Zhou Dynasty’s ritual articles were so well prepared!
I follow the Zhou etiquette.
A filial son serves the dead as well as the living.
The Empress Dowager should raise her mausoleum in Emperor Gong's cemetery.
So Empress Dowager Ding was buried in Dingtao.
Fifty thousand people from the nearby counties of Chenliu and Jiyin were recruited to dig the tomb and seal it with soil.
Waiting for the imperial edict, Xia Heliang and others prophesied that Han Emperor Gaozu was the spirit of the Red Emperor, saying that the Han family was in decline and should receive destiny again and change its name to Yuan Yi.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Two hundred years have passed since the rise of the Han Dynasty, and the Kaiyuan period has been counted.
The emperor and heaven bless me, an incompetent person, and the Han Dynasty will be given the talisman of destiny again. My virtue is meager, how dare I disobey it!
In order to receive the great destiny of heaven, everyone must be reorganized and updated to achieve amnesty for the whole world.
Taking the second year of Jianping as the first year of Taichu Yuanjiang, he was known as Emperor Chen Sheng and Liu Taiping.
The cleavage is measured in degrees of one hundred and twenty.
In July, the Yongling Pavilion on the northwest plain of Weicheng was the first tomb.
There is no need to relocate the residents of the county so that they can live in peace.
In August, an edict was issued saying: Xia Heliang and others are waiting for the edict to suggest changing the name of the Yuan Dynasty and adding oval engravings, which can make the country long-term and stable.
I listened too much to He Liang and others, hoping to bring blessings to the world, but no blessings came to me.
Their suggestions are against the past and against the times.
All edicts issued on the ninth day of June, except for the pardon order, were cancelled.
He Liang and others deceived the public and handed them over to law enforcement agencies for handling.
Xia Heliang and others all confessed their crimes.
Prime Minister Zhu Bo, imperial censor Zhao Li, and Kongxiang Hou Fu Yan were guilty.
Zhu Bo committed suicide, Zhao Li was punished with a second-class penalty, and Fu Yan reduced the number of households in the city by a quarter.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Zhu Bo".
In the first month of the spring of the third year, Guanghan, the younger brother of King Guangdeyi, was made King Guangping.
On the 21st of the first lunar month, a fire broke out in the main hall of Guigong, where the Empress Dowager lived.
On March 28, Prime Minister Pingdang passed away.
A comet appeared among the river drums.
In the sixth month of summer, Hou Min of Wuchang Township, Prince of Luqing, was made king.
On the fifth day of November in winter, Ganquan Taishan Sacrifice Temple and Fenyin Houtu Sacrifice Temple will be restored, while the northern and southern suburbs sacrifices will be cancelled.
Wang Yun of Dongping, Hou Ye of Yun, and Madam Fang of An Chenggonghou were all guilty. Yun committed suicide, and Ye and Fang were both executed.
In the spring of four years, a severe drought occurred.
According to folklore in Guandong, the Queen Mother of the West's magical plan was passed through the prefectures and states, and she entered the Guan in the west and reached Chang'an.
群众又聚集祭祀西王母，有的夜间持火上屋，击鼓号呼互相惊恐。


Chunk 4: 
original: 
二月，封帝太太后从弟侍中傅商为汝昌侯，太后同母弟子侍中郑业为阳信侯。
三月，侍中驸马都尉董贤、光禄大夫息夫躬、南阳太守孙宠皆以告东平王封列侯。语在《贤传》。
夏五月，赐中二千石至六百石及天下男子爵。
六月，尊帝太太后为皇太太后。
秋八月，恭皇园北门灾。
冬，诏将军、中二千石举明兵法有大虑者。
元寿元年春正月辛丑朔，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 朕获保宗庙，不明不敏，宿夜忧劳，未皇宁息。
惟阴阳不调，元元不赡，未赌厥咎。
娄敕公卿，庶几有望。至今有司执法，未得其中，或上暴虐，假势获名，温良宽柔，陷于亡灭。
是故残贼弥长，和睦日衰，百姓愁怨，靡所错躬。
乃正月朔，日有蚀之，厥咎不远，在余一人。公卿大夫其各悉心勉帅百寮，敦任仁人，黜远残贼，期于安民。
陈朕之过失，无有所讳。
其与将军、列侯、中二千石举贤良方正能直言者各一人。
大赦天下。
丁巳，皇太太后傅氏崩。
三月，丞相嘉有罪，下狱死。
秋九月，大司马票骑将军丁明免。
孝元庙殿门铜龟蛇铺首鸣。
二年春正月，匈奴单于、乌孙大昆弥来朝。
二月，归国，单于不说。
语在《匈奴传》。
夏四月壬辰晦，日有蚀之。
五月，正三公官公职。
大司马卫将军董贤为大司马，丞相孔光为大司徒，御史大夫彭宣为大司空，封长平侯。
正司直、司隶，造司寇职，事未定。
六月戊午，帝崩于未央宫。
秋九月壬寅，葬义陵。
赞曰：孝哀自为籓王及充太子之宫，文辞博敏，幼有令闻。
translation: 
In February, the Empress Dowager conferred the title of Marquis of Ruchang on Fu Shang, a servant of her younger brother, and the title of Marquis of Yangxin on the servant Zheng Ye, the son of the Empress Dowager and her younger brother.
In March, the prince-in-law Duwei Dong Xian, Guanglu doctor Xifu Gong, and Nanyang prefect Sun Chong were all named marquises for their merits in reporting on King Dongping. Their events are recorded in the "Biography of Dong Xian".
In the fifth month of summer, you will be awarded with a title ranging from 2,000 to 600 stones and the rank of a noble man in the world.
In June, the emperor's wife was honored as the emperor's wife.
In autumn and August, a fire broke out at the north gate of Gonghuang Garden.
In the winter, the general was ordered to give two thousand stones to recommend people who were familiar with the art of war and had strategies and considerations.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the first year of Yuanshou, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
The emperor issued an edict saying: I inherited the throne, but I am unclear and insensitive. I am worried and toiled late at night and have no time to rest.
The yang and yin are still out of balance, the people are not enough, and they don’t know what the fault is.
We have repeatedly ordered ministers to work hard to govern, but so far, the officials involved in enforcing the law have no correct goals. Some are cruel and cruel, taking advantage of the situation to gain fame, while the gentle and tolerant people are tortured and perished.
As a result, the wind of ruthless thieves is getting stronger day by day, the spirit of harmony is declining day by day, and the people are sad and resentful, and they don't know how to stand up.
Therefore, on the first day of the first lunar month, a solar eclipse occurs, which will not be far away. I will bear all the responsibilities. The ministers and officials should do their best to set an example for the officials, give priority to the benevolent people, and demote the weak thieves, in order to stabilize the people.
List my faults and tell them all.
You can recommend one person each to the generals, princes, and two thousand stones who are virtuous, upright, and outspoken.
Amnesty to the world.
On the seventeenth day of the first lunar month, the Empress Dowager Fu passed away.
In March, Prime Minister Wang Jia was found guilty and imprisoned to death.
In the ninth month of autumn, Ding Ming, the hussar general of the Grand Sima, was dismissed from his post.
The bronze turtle and snake on the temple door of Emperor Xiaoyuan and the head of the door shop make a sound.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Dakunmi, the grandson of Chanyu, king of the Xiongnu, came to court.
In February, Shanyu was displeased when he returned home.
The events are recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
On April 30th in summer, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
In May, the three official duties were divided.
General Dong Xian of the Great Sima Wei was the Great Sima, Prime Minister Kong Guang was the Great Situ, and the imperial censor Peng Xuan was the Great Sikong and was granted the title of Marquis Changping.
Zheng Si Zhi and Si Li were created, and the post of Si Kou was created but has not yet been finalized.
On the third day of June, Emperor Ai passed away in Weiyang Palace.
On September 18th in autumn, he was buried in Yiling.
Ban Gu commented: From being a vassal king to being established as a prince, Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty was well-versed in literary diction and good at hearing at a young age.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
睹孝成世禄去王室，权柄外移，是故临朝娄诛大臣，欲强主威，以则武、宣。
雅性不好声色，时览卞射武戏。
即位痿痹，末年寖剧，飨国不永，哀哉！
translation: 
Witnessing that when Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, all his titles and salary were transferred to the royal family, and power was transferred to the hands of his relatives, Emperor Ai repeatedly executed ministers in power, intending to strengthen his authority, and used Emperor Wu and Emperor Xuan as the law.
He is not sensual by nature, and sometimes watches martial arts dramas involving hand-held wrestling.
When he came to the throne, he suffered from fistula, which gradually worsened. He died after being emperor for six years at the age of 20. What a pity!


