Chunk 0: 
original: 
卓茂字子康，南阳宛人也。
父祖皆至郡守。
茂，元帝时学于长安，事博士江生，习《诗》、《礼》及历算。究极师法，称为通儒。
性宽仁恭爱。
乡党故旧，虽行能与茂不同，而皆爱慕欣欣焉。
初辟丞相府史，事孔光，光称为长者。
时尝出行，有人认其马。
茂问曰： 子亡马几何时？
对曰： 月余日矣。
茂有马数年，心知其谬，嘿解与之，挽车而去，顾曰： 若非公马，幸至丞相府归我。
他日，马主别得亡者，乃诸府送马，叩头谢之。
茂性不好争如此。
后以儒术举为侍郎，给事黄门，迁密令。
劳心谆谆，视人如子，举善而教，口无恶言，吏人亲爱而不忍欺之。
人尝有言部享长受其米肉遗者，茂辟左右问之曰： 亭长为从汝求乎？为汝有事嘱之而受乎？
translation: 
◆Zhuomao Biography: Zhuomao, courtesy name Zikang, was a native of Wan, Nanyang County.
Both his father and grandfather were officials and county guards.
Zhuomao studied in Chang'an during the reign of Emperor Yuan. He studied "Poetry", "Li" and Calendar under Dr. Jiang Weng. He exhausted his teacher's scholarship and was called Tongru.
Tolerant and respectful in nature.
Although his behavior and talents are different from Zhuo Mao's, they both admire and associate with him.
At first, he was recruited as an official in the prime minister's palace. From Kong Guang, Kong Guang called him an elder.
Once on a trip, someone recognized his horse.
Zhuomao asked: How long has your horse been lost?
The man replied: It has been lost for more than a month.
Zhuomao's horse had been with him for several years. He knew that he had admitted his mistake, but he untied the horse and gave it to him. He drove the cart away, and turned back to the man and said: If this horse is not yours, I hope you can take it to the Prime Minister's Mansion and return it to me.
Later, the horse owner found his lost horse, so he sent Zhuomao's horse to the Prime Minister's Mansion to return it to him and kowtow to apologize.
This is how Zhuomao has no disputes with others.
Later, he was elected as a minister with Confucianism, served in Huangmen, and moved to Mi County as magistrate.
He works diligently and conscientiously in his duties, treats the people as his sons, practices good governance and teaches others, speaks no evil words, and the officials and the people love him and cannot bear to bully him.
Some people once said that the chief of the pavilion under Zhuomao once accepted his gifts of rice and meat. Zhuomao avoided his subordinates and asked him, "Did the pavilion chief comply with your request, or did you accept it because you had something to tell him?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
将平居自以恩意遗之乎？ 人曰： 往遗之耳。
茂曰： 遗之而受，何故言邪？
人曰： 窃闻贤明之君，使人不畏吏，吏不取人。
今我畏吏，是以遗之，吏既卒受，故来言耳。
茂曰： 汝为敝人矣。
凡人所以贵于禽兽者，以有仁爱，知相敬事也。
今邻里长老尚致馈遗，此乃人道所以相亲，况吏与民乎？
吏顾不当乘威力强请求耳。
凡人之生，群居杂处，故有经纪礼义以相交接。
汝浊不欲修之，宁能高飞远走，不在人间邪？
亭长素善吏，岁时遗之，礼也。 人曰： 苟如此，律何故禁之？
茂笑曰： 律设大法，礼顺人情。
今我以礼教汝，汝必无怨恶；以律治汝，何所措其手足乎？
一门之内，小者可论，大者可杀也。
且归念之！
于是人纳其训，吏怀其恩。
translation: 
Or was it given to him because you usually felt that he was kind to you? The man said: I gave it to him myself.
Zhuo Mao said: You gave it to him and he accepted it, why did he say it out loud?
The man said: I heard that a wise king can make people not afraid of officials, and officials will not take people's property.
Now I'm afraid of the officials, so I gave him something. Since the chief of the pavilion has accepted it, that's why I said it.
Zhuo Mao said: You are an ignorant person.
The reason why humans are more valuable than animals is because they have benevolence and know how to treat each other with respect.
Nowadays, the elders of the neighborhood even give away food. This is the reason why humans are close to each other, not to mention the officials and the people?
Officials should not use their power to force money from the people.
In this world, people live in groups, so there are brokers and etiquette to communicate with each other.
If you don’t want to repair your interpersonal relationships, how can you still fly away and not live in this world?
The chief of the pavilion has always been a good official, so it is appropriate to give something during the Chinese New Year. The man said: If this is the case, why is it prohibited by law?
Zhuo Mao smiled and said: What the law sets is Dafa, and what is polite is human relationships.
Now if I teach you with etiquette, you will have no resentment. If I punish you with the law, you will be caught off guard!
Within a sect, small ones can be discussed, but big ones can be beheaded.
Go back and think about it.
So the people accepted his teachings, and the officials remembered his kindness.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
初，茂到县，有所废置，吏人笑之，邻城闻者皆蚩其不能。
河南郡为置守令，茂不能嫌，理事自若。
数年，教化大行，道不拾遗。
平帝时，天下大蝗，河南二十余县皆被其灾，独不入密县界。
督邮言之，太守不信，自出案行，见乃服焉。
是时，王莽秉政，置大司农六部丞，劝课农桑。迁茂为京部丞，密人老少皆涕泣随送。
及莽居摄，以病免归郡，常为门下掾祭酒，不肯作职吏。
更始立，以茂为侍中祭酒，从至长安，知更始政乱，以年老乞骸骨归。
时，光武初即位，先访求茂，茂诣河阳谒见。
乃下诏曰 前密令卓茂，束身自修，执节淳固，诚能为人所不能为。
translation: 
At first, Zhuomao went to the county and ignored the government orders. The officials laughed at him, and those in neighboring cities despised him for his incompetence.
Henan County appointed a guardian for this purpose. Zhuomao did not mind this matter and still handled government affairs as before.
A few years later, enlightenment was widespread, and no relics were picked up along the way.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, a great locust plague broke out all over the country. More than 20 counties in Henan Province were affected by the locust plague, except that it did not enter the county boundaries of Mi County.
The postal supervisor reported it, but the prefect didn't believe it. He went to the county to investigate in person and was convinced only after seeing the true situation.
At this time, Wang Mang was in charge of the government and appointed six ministers of agriculture and agriculture to guide and assess farmers and mulberry trees. He moved Zhuomao to be the minister of the capital. The people of Mi County, old and young, cried to see each other off.
When Wang Mang was living in the country, he was exempted from returning to the county because of his illness. He often offered wine to his disciples and refused to serve as an official.
Gengshi was established, and Zhuomao was appointed as his attendant to offer wine. He followed him to Chang'an. Knowing that Gengshi was in political turmoil, he asked to resign and return home because of his old age.
At this time, when Guangwu came to the throne, he first went to visit Zhuomao, and Zhuomao went to Heyang to see him.
Guangwu issued an edict saying: Zhuomao, the former magistrate of Mi County, restrained and cultivated himself, was honest and steady in his duties, and could do things that others could not do.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
棽卒，子嗣。，子隆嗣。永元十五年，隆卒，无子，国除。初，茂与同县孔休、陈留蔡勋、安众刘宣、楚国龚胜、上党鲍宣六人同志，不仕王莽时，并名重当时。
休字子泉，哀帝初，守新都令。
后王莽秉权，休去官归家。
及莽篡位，遣使赍玄纁、束帛，请为国师，遂欧血托病，杜门自绝。
光武即位，求休、勋子孙，赐谷以旌显之。
刘宣字子高，安众侯崇之从弟，知王莽当篡，乃变名姓，抱经书隐避林薮。
勋事在玄孙邕传。
论曰：建武之初，雄豪方扰，虓呼者连响，婴城者相望，斯固倥偬不暇给之日。
卓茂断断小宰，无它庸能，时已七十余矣，而首加聘命，优辞重礼，其与周、燕之君表闾立馆何异哉？
translation: 
At first, Zhuomao and his six comrades, Kong Xiu from the same county, Cai Xun from Chenliu, Liu Xuan from Anzhong, Gong Sheng from Chu, and Bao Xuan from Shangdang, did not serve in the reign of Wang Mang, but were famous at that time.
Kong Xiu, whose courtesy name was Ziquan, was the county magistrate of Xindu in the early days of Emperor Ai.
Later, when Wang Mang assumed power, Kong Xiu resigned from office and returned home.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he sent an envoy with Xuan Jinxun and silk to ask him to be the national advisor. Kong Xiu vomited blood and blamed his illness, and Du Men committed suicide.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he asked the descendants of Kong Xiu and Cai Xun to give him grain to show his power.
Liu Xuan, courtesy name Zigao, was a cousin of Anzhonghou Liu Chong. Knowing that Wang Mang would usurp the throne, he changed his name and hid in the mountains holding scriptures.
When Jianwu first came out of the mountain, Guangwu attacked Liu Xuan and granted him the title of Marquis of An.
Gong Ci, Gong Sheng's son, was promoted to be the prefect of Shanggu. The historian commented: At the beginning of the founding of the military, the heroes were quarreling, shouting and shouting, and those who defended themselves in the city looked at each other. This was the time when there were too many things to do.
Zhuomao, a small county magistrate with no other extraordinary talents and over seventy years old, was able to be appointed as the first to be appointed and receive great gifts and words. How is this different from King Wu of Zhou who appointed Bigan to watch Shang Rong and King Zhao of Yan to serve as Guo Wei's tutor in building a palace?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是蕴愤归道之宾，越关阻，捐宗族，以排金门者众矣。
夫厚性宽中近于仁，犯而不校邻于恕，率斯道也，怨悔曷其至乎！
鲁恭字仲康，扶风平陵人也。
其先出于鲁顷公，为楚所灭，迁于下邑，因氏焉。
世吏二千石，哀、平间，自鲁而徙。
祖父匡，王莽时，为羲和，有权数，号曰 智囊 。
父某。建武初，为武陵太守，卒官。
时恭年十二，弟丕七岁，昼夜号踊不绝声，郡中赙赠无所受，乃归服丧，礼过成人，乡里奇之。
十五，与母及丕俱居太学，习《鲁诗》，闭户讲诵，绝人间事，兄弟俱为诸儒所称，学士争归之。
太尉赵憙慕其志，每岁时遣子问以酒粮，皆辞不受。
translation: 
Therefore, many guests who harbored righteous indignation and hoped to return to the right path crossed the dangerous mountains and abandoned their clans in order to exclude the Jinmen embroidered households.
Being kind and lenient is closer to benevolence, and not repaying someone for committing a crime is closer to forgiveness. If you can do this, will anyone still be resentful?
Lu Gong's biography, Lu Gong's courtesy name was Zhongkang, and he was a native of Pingling, Fufeng.
His ancestors came from Lu Qinggong, who was destroyed by Chu and moved to Xiayi, so he took Lu as his clan surname.
Generations are worth two thousand stones. During the Aiping years, they migrated from Lu.
During the reign of Wang Mang, his grandfather Lu Kuang was an official in charge of the four seasons. He had great authority and was known as the "think tank".
His father, Lu, was the prefect of Wuling in the early days of Jianwu, and he died in the official position.
At that time, Lu Gong was only twelve years old and his younger brother Lu Pi was only seven years old. The two brothers were crying and jumping day and night. They did not accept the funeral gifts from the county, so they went home to mourn. The etiquette was even more considerate than that of adults. The villagers were deeply surprised.
At the age of fifteen, he, his mother and his younger brother Lu Pi all lived in Taixue, where they studied "Lu Shi", lectured and recited it behind closed doors, and ignored external affairs. Both brothers were praised by the Confucian scholars, and the bachelors rushed to join them.
Taiwei Zhao admired his ambition and sent his son to ask if there was a shortage of wine or food during every year and festival, but he refused.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
恭怜丕小，欲先就其名，托疾不仕。
郡数以礼请，谢不肯应，母强遣之，恭不得已而西，因留新丰教授。
建初初，丕举方正，恭始为郡吏。
太傅赵憙闻而辟之。
肃宗集诸儒于白虎观，恭特以经明得召，与其议。
憙复举恭直言，特诏公车，拜中牟令。
恭专以德化为理，不任刑罚，讼人许伯等争田，累守令不能决，恭为平理曲直，皆退而自责，辍耕相让。
亭长从人借牛而不肯还之，牛主讼于恭。
恭召亭长，敕令归牛者再三，犹不从。
恭叹曰： 是教化不行也。
欲解印绶去。
掾史涕泣共留之，亭长乃惭悔，还牛，诣狱受罪，薛贳不问。
于是吏人信服。
建初七年，郡国螟伤稼，犬牙缘界，不入中牟。
translation: 
Lu Gong felt sorry for Lu Pi because he was young and wanted him to achieve his fame first. He pretended that he was ill and would not serve as an official.
The county invited him several times with courtesy, but Lu Gong thanked him and refused to respond. His mother forced him to send him out. Lu Gong had no choice but to go west, because he stayed in Xinfeng as a professor.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Lu Pi was promoted to Fangzheng, and Lu Gong began to serve as a county official.
Taifu Zhao heard the news and called him out to serve.
Suzong gathered many Confucian scholars at Baihu Temple, and Lu Gongte summoned him with the Ming Sutra to participate in the discussion.
Zhao also recommended Lu Gong outspokenly and waited for the imperial edict to be sent to the public carriage to pay homage to Mou Ling.
Lu Gong specialized in moral transformation and did not regard punishment. The litigants Xu Bo and others were fighting for land, and successive orders could not be settled. Lu Gong commented on the merits of the case for them, but in the end they all retreated and blamed themselves, and stopped farming to give up the land to each other.
The director of the pavilion borrowed someone else's cow and refused to return it, so the owner of the cow sued Lu Gong.
He respectfully summoned the chief of the pavilion and ordered him to return the cow to its owner. He urged him repeatedly, but he still refused to return the cow.
Lu Gong sighed and said, "This is a teaching that doesn't work."
Prepare to resign and leave.
The ministers cried and tried to persuade each other to stay. The chief of the pavilion felt deeply regretful and returned the cow.
So the officials and the people were convinced.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, borers were infested in the county and the crops were damaged. The boundaries of the counties were intertwined, but the borers could not enter the middle.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
河南尹袁安闻之，疑其不实，使仁恕掾肥亲往廉之。
恭随行阡陌，俱坐桑下，有雉过，止其傍。傍有童儿，亲曰： 儿何不捕之？
儿言： 雉方将雏。
亲瞿然而起，与恭诀曰： 所以来者，欲察君之政迹耳。
今虫不犯境，此一异也；化及鸟兽，此二异也；竖子有仁心，此三异也。
久留，徒扰贤者耳。
还府，具以状白安。
是岁，嘉禾生恭便坐廷中，安因上书言状，帝异之。
会诏百官举贤良方正，恭荐中牟名士王方，帝即征方诣公车，礼之与公卿所举同，方致位侍中。
恭在事三年，州举尤异，会遭母丧去官，吏人思之。
后拜侍御史。
和帝初立，议遣车骑将军窦宪与征西将军耿秉击匈奴，恭上疏谏曰：陛下亲劳圣思，日昊不食，忧在军役，诚欲以安定北垂，为人除患，定万世之计也。
臣伏独思之，未见其便。
translation: 
Henan Yin Yuan'an heard that the suspicion was not true, so he sent Renshu and his relatives to investigate.
Lu Gong followed him as he walked among the streets and sat under a mulberry tree. A pheasant flew by and stopped nearby. There happened to be a child next to him. The fat relative said to the child: "Why don't you catch the pheasant?"
Tong'er said: This pheasant is hatching chicks.
The fat relative stood up in alarm and said goodbye to Lu Gong: "I came here to inspect your political performance."
Nowadays, moths do not attack Zhongmou, which is one wonder; virtue is extended to birds and beasts, which is the second wonder; even children have benevolence, which is the third wonder.
If I stay here for a long time, I can only disturb the wise man.
Returning to the mansion, he made a truthful report to the governor Yuan An.
This year, particularly strong seedlings grew in the side room of Lu Gong's residence. Yuan An therefore wrote a letter explaining the situation, which surprised the emperor.
Just then, he ordered hundreds of officials to recommend virtuous and upright people. Lu Gong recommended Wang Fang, a famous scholar in Zhongmu. The emperor immediately summoned Wang Fang to the official carriage and treated the virtuous and upright people recommended by the minister with the same etiquette. Wang Fang became an official in the service.
During Lu Gong's three years in office, he excelled particularly well in the state examinations. It coincided with the death of his mother and his resignation, and officials and people all missed him.
Later, he became the imperial censor.
When Emperor He was first established, he was preparing to send the cavalry general Dou Xian and the western general Geng Bing to attack the Xiongnu. Lu Gong wrote a letter to admonish: Your Majesty works personally on the holy body, does not eat during the sun, and is worried about military service. The reason is to stabilize the northern border, eliminate troubles for the people, and plan for the future.
But I thought to myself that I had not seen the convenience.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
社稷之计，万人之命，在于一举。
数年以来，秋稼不熟，人食不足，仓库空虚，国无畜积。
会新遭大忧，人怀恐惧。
陛下躬大圣之德，履至孝之行，尽谅阴三年，听于冢宰。
百姓阙然，三时不闻警跸之音，莫不怀思皇皇，若有求而不得。
今乃以盛春之月，兴发军役，扰动天下，以事戎夷，诚非所以垂恩中国，改元正时，由内及外也。
万民者，天之所生。
天爱其所生，犹父母爱其子。
一物有不得其所者，则天气为之桀错，况于人乎？
故爱人者必有天报。
昔太王重人命而去邠，故获上天之祐。
夫戎狄者，四方之异气也。
蹲夷踞肆，与鸟兽无别。
若杂居中国，则错乱天气，污辱善人，是以圣王之制，羁縻不绝而已。
今边境无事，宜当修仁行义，尚于无为，令家给人足，安业乐产。
夫人道乂于下，则阴阳和于上，祥风时雨，覆被远方，夷狄重译而至矣。
translation: 
The plan for the country and the lives of thousands of people depend on one move.
For several years, the autumn harvests have failed, people have not enough food, warehouses are empty, and the country has no reserves.
It happened that Emperor Zhang died, and people were filled with fear.
Your Majesty, who has practiced the virtues of a great saint and performed the most filial piety, should spend three years in mourning and listen to the funeral rites.
The people were sad, and they could not hear the sound of police for three hours, and they all felt anxious and worried, as if they were asking for something but not getting it.
Today, in the full month of spring, we launch military campaigns, disrupt the world, and stalemate with the barbarians. This is not a move to show favor to China and change the time of the Yuan Dynasty, from the inside to the outside.
All peoples are born from heaven.
God loves his children, just like parents love their sons.
If something is out of place and the weather is wrong, let alone people.
Therefore, those who love others will be rewarded.
In the past, Taiwang Gugong passed away because he cherished human life, so he was blessed by God.
Yi Di is the strange spirit in all directions.
Ping Siju is arrogant, unruly and rude, no different from birds and beasts.
If they live together in China, they will confuse the weather and insult good people. Therefore, the system of the Holy King is just a constant restraint on them.
There is nothing happening on the border today. We should practice benevolence, practice righteousness, and advocate inaction, so that our families can have enough people and have a safe and prosperous career.
If the human way is stable at the bottom, the yin and yang will be harmonious at the top, and the auspicious wind and rain will cover the distance, then Yi Di will pay tribute through many translations.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
《易》曰： 有孕盈缶，终来有它吉。 言甘雨满我之缶，诚来有我而吉已。
夫以德胜人者昌，以力胜人者亡。
今匈奴为鲜卑所杀，远臧于史侯河西，去塞数千里，而欲乘其虚耗，利其微弱，是非义之所出也。
前太仆祭肜远出塞外，卒不见一胡而兵已困矣。
自山之难，不绝如綖，都护陷没，士卒死者如积，迄今被其辜毒。
孤寡哀思之心未弭，仁者念之，以为累息，奈何复欲袭其迹，不顾患难乎？
今始征发，而大司农调度不足，使者在道，分部督趣，上下相迫，民间之急亦已甚矣。
三辅、并、凉少雨，麦根枯焦，牛死日甚，此其不合天心之效也。
群僚百姓，咸曰不可，陛下独奈何以一人之计，弃万人之命，不恤其言乎？
上观天心，下察人志，足以知事之得失。
臣恐中国不为中国，岂徒匈奴而已哉！
惟陛下留圣恩，休罢士卒，以顺天心。
translation: 
"Book of Changes" says: With good faith and accumulation, it is like rainwater filling a small pot, and the result will be other auspicious events. It means that if the sweet rain fills my earthenware fou, if I have integrity, it will be auspicious for someone to come and join me.
Those who conquer others with virtue will prosper, and those who conquer others with strength will perish.
Today, the Xiongnu were defeated by Xianbei and are hiding far west of the Shihou River, thousands of miles away from the frontier fortress. To take advantage of their wastage and weaken them to attack them is not moral.
The former servant Ji Tong went far beyond the fortress, but in the end he could not see a single Hu soldier and he was already trapped.
The disasters in Baishan are endless. The protector Chen Mu was trapped, and the soldiers died in large numbers, and they are still suffering from his poison to this day.
The feeling of loneliness and sorrow has not disappeared. The benevolent think of it and think it is holding their breath. Why do they want to continue its legacy and ignore the adversity?
Now the levy has begun, but the chief minister, Nong, has insufficient dispatch. The envoys are at the road, and the branches are supervising. The top and bottom are facing each other, and the people are in serious embarrassment.
There is little rain in Sanfu, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou, the wheat roots are withered, and the cows die every day. This is an effect that is not in accordance with the will of heaven.
The officials and the people all said that this could not be done. How could your Majesty only think of one person, abandon the lives of thousands of people, and not be considerate of the voices of the people?
Observing the heart of heaven from above and the will of people from below are enough to know the gains and losses of things.
I am afraid that if this continues, China will no longer be China, and the Huns will not become the Huns!
Your Majesty, please retain your holy grace, stop dismissing your soldiers, and obey the will of Heaven.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
书奏，不从。
每政事有益于人，恭辄言其便，无所隐讳。
其后拜为《鲁诗》博士，由是家法学者日盛。
迁侍中，数召宴见，问以得失，赏赐恩礼宠异焉。
迁乐安相。
是时，东州多盗贼，群辈攻劫，诸郡患之。
恭到，重购赏，开恩信，其渠帅张汉等率支党降，恭上以汉补博昌尉，其余遂自相捕击，尽破平之，州郡以安。
永元九年，征拜议郎。
八月，饮酎，斋会章台，诏使小黄门特引恭前。
其夜拜侍中，敕使陪乘，劳问甚渥。
冬，迁光禄勋，选举清平，京师贵戚莫能枉其正。
十三年，代吕盖为司徒。
十五年，从巡狩南阳，除子抚为郎中，赐驸马从驾。
时弟丕亦为侍中。
兄弟父子并列朝廷。
后坐事策免。
殇帝即位，以恭为长乐卫尉。
永初元年，复代梁鲔为司徒。
translation: 
The book was sent to the emperor, but the emperor refused to obey.
Whenever political affairs were discussed, as long as they were beneficial to others, Lu Gong would always speak frankly and hide nothing.
Later, he became a doctor of "Lu Shi". From then on, the family's legal scholars became more and more prosperous.
He was moved to serve as a servant, and he held banquets several times to ask about his gains and losses. His rewards, favors, and favors were different from ordinary people.
Later, he was moved to the position of Liu Chong, the king of Qiancheng.
At this time, there were many thieves in Dongzhou, and they formed groups to attack and plunder, causing trouble to all the counties.
After Lu Gong arrived, he bought rewards with heavy sums of money and spread the favor widely. His commander-in-chief Zhang Han and others led his faction to surrender. Lu Gong used him as Han supplicant Bo Changwei.
In the ninth year of Yongyuan, he was recruited and worshiped as Yilang.
In August, he drank pure strong wine and met at Zhangtai. He ordered Xiaohuangmen to lead Lu Gong forward.
That night he worshiped as a servant and ordered an envoy to accompany him to express his condolences and ask for his kindness.
In winter, Luxun was moved to Guangzhou, and the election was pure and fair. No one from the capital could distort his integrity.
In the thirteenth year of Yongyuan, he replaced Lu Gai as Situ.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited Nanyang and appointed his son Lu Fu as the doctor. He was given a deputy horse to drive.
At this time, his younger brother Lu Pi also became a servant.
Brothers, father and son sit side by side in the court.
Later, he was dismissed from office due to his clan brother's affairs.
Emperor Shang ascended the throne and appointed Lu Gong as the Changle Guard.
In the first year of Yongchu's reign, Liang Quan was replaced as Situ.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
初，和帝末，下令麦秋得案验薄刑，而州郡好以苛察为政，因此遂盛夏断狱。
恭上疏谏曰：臣伏见诏书，敬若天时，忧念万民，为崇和气，罪非殊死，且勿案验。
进柔良，退贪残，奉时令。
所以助仁德，顺昊天，致和气，利黎民者也。
旧制至立秋乃行薄刑，自永元十五年以来，改用孟夏，而刺史、太守不深惟忧民息事之原，进良退残之化，因以盛夏征召农人，拘对考验，连滞无已。
司隶典司京师，四方是则，而近于春月分行诸部，托言劳来贫人，而无隐恻之实，烦扰郡县，廉考非急，逮捕一人，罪延十数，上逆时气，下伤农业。
案《易》气月《姤》用事。经曰： 后以施令诰四方。
言君以夏至之日，施命令止四方行者，所以助微阴也。
行者尚止之，况于逮召考掠，夺其时哉！
translation: 
At first, in the last years of Emperor He's reign, he ordered that the sentences be reduced during the wheat and autumn seasons. However, the prefectures and counties liked to govern with harshness, so they suspended sentences in the midsummer season.
Lu Gong went to the imperial court and remonstrated: When I saw the edict and respected Heaven, I thought of all the people and advocated harmony. The crime does not necessarily lead to death, so I will not investigate and confirm it for the time being.
Advance in kindness, retreat from greed and weakness, and act in accordance with the times.
This will help benevolent and virtuous, comply with Haotian, bring harmony, and benefit the people.
The old system stipulated that light punishments would be implemented at the beginning of autumn. Since the fifteenth year of Yongyuan, Meng Xia has been used instead. However, the governor and the governor did not think deeply about the principle of caring for the people and redressing the troubles, and promoted the virtuous and the corrupt. Instead, they recruited farmers in midsummer, arrested and tested the evidence. The cases were implicated in each other, and the case was delayed.
Sili Xiaoweidian leads the capital, taking all parties as the criterion. Recently, in the spring, he has branched out into various ministries, using pretexts and words to convey the poor, without mercy on the actual situation below, disturbing the counties and counties, scrutinizing those who have to be dealt with urgently, and arresting one person.
According to the "Nuhou Gua" in the fifth month of the "Book of Changes", the "Nvhou Gua" says: There is wind in the world, and the monarch gives orders to regulate the four directions.
It is said that the monarch uses the summer solstice to issue orders to stop those traveling in all directions to help the occurrence of slight clouds.
If the traveler wants to stop, how much more to arrest, test, plunder, and seize the time?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
比年水旱伤稼，人饥流冗。
今始夏，百谷权舆，阳气胎养之时。
自三月以来，阴寒不暖，物当化变而不被和气。
《月令》： 孟夏断薄刑，出轻系。
行秋令则苦雨数来，五谷不熟。
又曰： 仲夏挺重囚，益其食。
行秋令则草木零落，人伤于疫。
夫断薄刑者，谓其轻罪已正，不欲令久系，故时断之也。
臣愚以为今孟夏之制，可从此令，其决狱案考，皆以立秋为断，以顺时节，育成万物，则天地以和，刑罚以清矣。
初，肃宗时，断狱皆以冬至之前，自后论者互多驳异。
邓太后诏公卿以下会议，恭议奏曰：夫阴阳之气，相扶而行，发动用事，各有时节。
若不当其时，则物随而伤。
王者虽质文不同，而兹道无变，四时之政，行之若一。
《月令》，周世所造，而所据皆夏之时也，其变者为正朔、服色、牺牲、徽号、器械而已。
translation: 
In recent years, floods and droughts have damaged agriculture, and people have been dispersed due to hunger.
This summer has just begun, the beginning of the harvest, the time when all things are pregnant and developing.
Since March, there has been a lack of warmth and coldness, and living things should change without being harmonious.
"Moon Order": Meng Xia cut off light punishment and released minor offenders.
When the autumn order comes, bitter rains will come frequently and the grain will not be ripe.
He also said: In mid-summer, the prisoners should be lenient and their food should be increased.
When the autumn order is carried out, vegetation falls and people are injured by diseases.
Therefore, it is necessary to give a lighter sentence because the crime is minor and he has repented. He should not be kept in prison for a long time, so the decision is made promptly.
I think that the current system of Mengxia can be implemented according to this order. Its prison sentences are all judged by the beginning of autumn. This will follow the seasons and cultivate all things. Then the heaven and the earth will be harmonious and the punishment will be clear.
At first, during Suzong's reign, the prison was broken before the winter solstice, and later commentators refuted each other.
Empress Dowager Deng ordered the ministers to hold a meeting to discuss. Lu Gong discussed and reported: The qi of yin and yang support each other and move, and each has its own season.
If it is not in season, then things will be damaged accordingly.
Although the kings have different qualities and literary talents, this principle has not changed. The administration of the four seasons is implemented in the same way.
The "Moon Order" was formulated by the Zhou Dynasty, and it was based on the time of the Xia Dynasty. The only changes were the Zhengshuo, clothing colors, and the livestock, emblems, and instruments used in sacrifices.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故曰： 殷因于夏礼，周因于殷礼，所损益可知也。
《易》曰： 潜龙勿用。
言十一月、十二月阳气潜臧，未得用事。
虽煦嘘万物，养其根荄，而犹盛阴在上，地冻水冰，阳气否隔，闭而成冬。
故曰： 履霜坚冰，阴始凝也。驯致其道，至坚冰也。
言五月微阴始起，至十一月坚冰至也。
夫王者之作，因时为法。
孝章皇帝深惟古人之道，助三正之微，定律著令，冀承天心，顺物性命，以致时雍。
然从变改以来，年岁不熟，谷价常贵，人不宁安。
小吏不与国同心者，率入十一月得死罪贼，不问曲直，便即格杀，虽有疑罪，不复谳正。
一夫吁嗟，王道为亏，况于众乎？
《易》十一月 君子以议狱缓死 。
可令疑罪使详其法，大辟之科，尽冬月乃断。
其立春在十二月中者，勿以报囚如故事。
后卒施行。
translation: 
Therefore: Yin Yin copied Xia Li, Zhou Yin copied Yin Li, and the gains and losses of additions and deletions can be known.
The Book of Changes says: It symbolizes the lurking dragon, so it is better not to use it.
It means that the Yang Qi is hidden in November and December, making it inconvenient to use.
Although the gentle wind blows and warms all things and maintains the roots, there is still a lot of yin above, the ground is frozen and the water is frozen, and the yang energy is blocked and closed for the winter.
Therefore, it is said: If you walk on the frosty ground, you will know that the season of solid ice is coming, and the Yin Qi will begin to condense. If it goes down, it will naturally condense into solid ice.
It means that it starts to be slightly overcast in May and solid ice forms in November.
What the king does is based on the seasons.
Emperor Xiaozhang thought deeply about the ways of the ancients, and formulated laws and regulations to help his son Chou Yin's weak Yang Qi, hoping to be in harmony with the seasons in order to follow the heart of heaven and obey the fate of things.
However, judging from the reality since the reform, the years are not rich, the price of grain is very high, and people are uneasy.
If the county officials do not agree with the state, they will execute prisoners who have committed capital crimes in November. They will kill them without asking the merits. Even if the circumstances of some cases are suspicious, they will not be reviewed and corrected.
If one person complains about injustice, then the king's rule is wrong. What if many people are like this?
"Yi" November: A gentleman should review and suspend the death penalty for suspects.
Doubtful criminals can be ordered to follow this method in detail, and the death penalty subjects will not be terminated until the end of the winter month.
When the beginning of spring is in mid-December, you don’t need to file a petition for a report and still do it as before.
It was later implemented.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
恭再在公位，选辟高第，至列卿郡守者数十人。
而其耆旧大姓，或不蒙荐举，至有怨望者。
恭闻之，曰： 学之不讲，是否忧也。
诸生不有乡举者乎？
永初二年，诏公卿举儒术笃学者，大将军邓骘举丕，再迁，复为侍中、左中郎将，再为三老。五年，年七十五，卒于官。
魏霸字乔卿，济阴句阳人也。
世有礼义。
霸少丧亲，兄弟同居，州里慕其雍和。
建初中，举孝廉，八迁，和帝时为巨鹿太守。
以简朴宽恕为政。
掾史有过，霸先诲其失，不改者乃罢之。
吏或相毁诉，霸辄称它吏之长，终不及人短，言者怀惭，谮讼遂息。
永元十六年，征拜将作大匠。
明年，和帝崩，典作顺陵。
时盛冬地冻，中使督促，数罚县吏以厉霸。
霸抚循而已，初不切责，而反劳之曰： 令诸卿被辱，大匠过也。
吏皆怀恩，力作倍功。
translation: 
Lu Gong held the position of public minister, selected and appointed senior officials, and appointed dozens of ministers and county guards.
However, some elders with the same surname may be resentful because they were not recommended for promotion.
After Lu Gong heard this, he said: "The lack of learning is my worry."
Don’t all the students have their own villages to recommend them to?
So the complainer has nothing to say. Lu Gong had a humble nature and based his opinions on the classics. Although he benefited a lot, he never showed himself, so he was not known for his uprightness. After three years, he stopped writing due to old illness and illness. Six years later, at the age of eighty-one, he died at home.
◆In the biography of Wei Ba, Wei Ba's courtesy name is Qiao Qing, a native of Jiyinjuyang.
There is etiquette from generation to generation.
Wei Ba had been bereaved since childhood, and his brothers lived together. The state admired the harmony between their brothers.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was promoted to Xiaolian and moved eight times. By the time of Emperor He, he was the prefect of Julu.
Live by simplicity and forgiveness.
When a governor makes a mistake, Wei Ba first criticizes his mistakes, and only removes those who do not correct them.
Officials sometimes denounced each other's complaints, but Wei Ba always praised the merits of the officials and never mentioned their shortcomings. As a result, those who denounced each other felt ashamed, and the trend of bad words and false accusations subsided.
In the 16th year of Yongyuan, he was worshiped as an official in charge of building palaces.
In the second year, Emperor He died, and Wei Ba took charge of the construction of Shunling.
It was a severe winter and the envoys sent by the palace were very strict in urging and punished the county officials several times to encourage Wei Ba.
Wei Ba only comforted them and did not blame the people below him. He also comforted them and said: It is my master craftsman's fault that you are being insulted now.
The officials were grateful and tried their best to speed up the progress of the project.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
延平元年，代尹勤为太常。
明年，以病致仕，为光禄大夫。
永初五年，拜长乐卫尉，以病乞身，复为光禄大夫，卒于官。
刘宽字文饶，弘农华阴人也。
父崎，顺帝时为司徒。
宽尝行，有人失牛者，乃就宽车中认之。
宽无所言，下驾步归。
有顷，认者得牛而送还，叩头谢曰： 惭负长者，随所刑罪。
宽曰： 物有相类，事容脱误，幸劳见归，何为谢之？
州里服其不校。
桓帝时，大将军辟，五迁司徒长史。
时、京师地震，特见询问。
再迁，出为东海相。
延熹八年，征拜尚书令，迁南阳太守。
典历三郡，温仁多恕，虽在仓卒，未尝疾言遽色。
常以为 齐之以刑，民免而无耻。
translation: 
In the first year of Yanping, Dai Yinqin was appointed Taichang.
In the second year, he resigned due to illness and became Doctor Guanglu.
In the fifth year of Yongchu, he worshiped Changle Weiwei, begged for his illness, and became Guanglu doctor again. He died in the official position.
◆Biography of Liu Kuan Liu Kuan, courtesy name Wenrao, was a native of Hongnong and Huayin.
His father, Liu Qi, was a Situ during the reign of Emperor Shun.
Liu Kuan once went out and someone lost his cow. He found a cow in Liu Kuan's car and said it was his.
Liu Kuan made no excuse and got out of the car and walked home.
Soon, the man who recognized the cow found his lost cow and returned it to Liu Kuan. He kowtowed and apologized, saying: "I am ashamed of my elders, and I am willing to accept your punishment for me."
Liu Kuan said: Things are similar, and mistakes are allowed. Please send it back. How can I thank you?
The people in the state admired his magnanimous and non-confrontational spirit.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, General Liang Ji conquered him and was promoted to Situ Changshi five times.
At that time, there was an earthquake in the capital, so he was specially interviewed and asked.
He moved again and left the capital to become the prime minister of Liu Zhen, King of the East China Sea.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, he was worshiped as Shangshu Ling and moved to Nanyang to be the prefect.
In charge of the three counties, he was gentle, benevolent and forgiving. Although he was in a hurry and urgent, he was not quick to express his anger.
It is often thought that punishments are used to govern the people. Although the people do not commit punishments, they will inevitably behave shamelessly.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
吏人有过，但用蒲鞭罚之，示辱而已，终不加苦。
事有功善，推之自下。
灾异或见，引躬克责。
每行县止息亭传，辄引学官祭酒及处士诸生执经对讲。
见父老慰以农里之言，少年勉以孝悌之训。
人感德兴行，日有所化。
灵帝初，征拜太中大夫，传讲华光殿。
迁侍中，赐衣一袭。
转屯骑校尉，迁宗正，转光禄勋。
熹平五年，代许训为太尉。
灵帝颇好学艺，每引见宽，常令讲经。
宽尝于坐被酒睡伏。
帝问： 太尉醉邪？
宽仰对曰： 臣不敢醉，但任重责大，忧心如醉。
帝重其言。
宽简略嗜酒，不好盥浴，京师以为谚。
尝坐客，遣苍头市酒，迂久，大醉而还。
客不堪之，骂曰： 畜产。
translation: 
When officials and common people have offenses, they only use a few whips with grass whips to show insult, without causing any pain to the flesh.
Wherever there is merit, it is attributed to the following.
When disaster occurs, take responsibility yourself.
Every time he stopped at the Tingchuan Inn in the county, he would be greeted by academic officials offering wine and virgins holding scriptures in their hands to talk to each other.
When you see your elders, you comfort them with words from the farm; when you see young people, you encourage them with the words of filial piety and brotherhood.
People are motivated to practice virtue when they feel it, and education is becoming more and more popular.
At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, he was worshiped as Taizhong doctor and served as lecturer in Huaguang Palace.
When he moved to serve as a servant, he was given a set of clothes.
He was transferred to Tunqi Xiaowei, moved to Zongzheng, and transferred to Guangluxun.
In the fifth year of Xiping's reign, Xu Xun was appointed Taiwei.
Emperor Ling loved learning arts very much. Whenever he introduced Liu Kuan, he often asked him to give lectures on Buddhist scriptures.
Liu Kuan once fell asleep after being drunk on his seat.
The emperor asked: "Is the Taiwei drunk?"
Liu Kuan raised his head and replied: "I dare not get drunk, but the task is heavy and the responsibility is great, and I am so worried that I am drunk."
The emperor valued his words.
Liu Kuan simply liked to drink, but did not like to wash his hands and bathe, so the capital became a proverb.
I once sat with a guest and sent an old servant to the market to buy wine. After a long time, the old servant came back drunk.
The guest was unbearable and cursed: "Beast."


Chunk 16: 
original: 
宽须臾遣人视奴，疑必自杀。
顾左右曰： 此人也，骂言畜产，辱熟甚焉！
故吾惧其死也。
夫人欲试宽令恚，伺当朝会，装严已讫，使侍婢奉肉羹，翻污朝衣。
婢遽收之，宽神色不异，乃徐言曰： 羹烂汝手？
其性度如此。
海内称为长者。
后以日食策免。
拜卫尉。
光和二年，复代段颎为太尉。
在职三年，以日变免。
又拜永乐少府，迁光禄勋。以先策黄巾逆谋，以事上闻，封逯乡侯六百户。
中平二年卒，时年六十六。
子松嗣，官至宗正。
translation: 
Liu Kuan soon sent someone to visit the old servant, suspecting that he would commit suicide.
He said to his left and right: "This man, call him a beast. Is there any greater insult than this?"
So I'm afraid that he will commit suicide.
The madam wanted to try to make Liu Kuan angry once. When the court meeting was held, after dressing up, the special envoy's maid pretended to accidentally spill meat soup on Liu Kuan, and the court clothes were also stained.
The maid hurriedly retreated, but Liu Kuan showed no anger and his expression remained unchanged. He slowly said to the maid: "Did the soup hurt your hand?"
Such was the magnanimity of his temperament.
People all over the country call him the elder.
Later he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse.
He paid homage to the Weiwei again.
In the second year of Guanghe's reign, Duan Yu was appointed Taiwei again.
After three years of service, the employee will be exempted on a day-to-day basis.
He also paid homage to the Shaofu of Yongle and moved to Guangluxun, in order to predict the Yellow Turbans' conspiracy. Based on this incident, he made a report and sealed 600 households of the local marquis.
He died in the second year of Zhongping at the age of sixty-six.
His son Liu Song succeeded to the throne, and his official position was Zongzheng.


