Chunk 0: 
original: 
李广，陇西成纪人也。
其先曰李信，秦时为将，逐得燕太子丹者也。
广世世受射。
孝文十四年，匈奴大入萧关，而广以良家子从军击胡，用善射，杀首虏多，为郎，骑常侍。
数从射猎，格杀猛兽，文帝曰： 惜广不逢时，令当高祖世，万户侯岂足道哉！
景帝即位，为骑郎将。
吴、楚反时，为骁骑都尉，从太尉亚夫战昌邑下，显名。
以梁王授广将军印，故还，赏不行。
为上谷太守，数与匈奴战。
典属国公孙昆邪为上泣曰： 李广材气，天下亡双，自负其能，数与虏确，恐亡之。
上乃徙广为上郡太守。
匈奴侵上郡，上使中贵人从广勒习兵击匈奴。
translation: 
Li Guang, a native of Shengqi, Longxi County.
His ancestor Li Zhi was a general in the Qin Dynasty and once hunted down Prince Dan of Yan State.
Li Guang's family has been learning archery for generations.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Huns invaded Xiaoguan in large numbers. Li Guang joined the army to fight against the Huns as a son of a good family. Because he was good at archery, he killed and captured many enemies. He became a Langguan of the Han Dynasty and served as a riding attendant.
Li Guang often went hunting with Emperor Wen and killed fierce beasts, so Emperor Wen said: It's a pity that you didn't get the chance; if you were in the era of Emperor Gao, it wouldn't be a problem to be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households!
Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne, and Li Guang was appointed Cavalry General.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Li Guang served as the commander of Xiaoqi. He followed Taiwei Zhou Yafu to attack Wu and Chu, and made outstanding achievements in Changyi City.
Because the King of Liang privately awarded General Li Guang the seal, he did not receive the reward after returning to the court.
He was transferred to the prefect of Shanggu and fought many battles with the Xiongnu.
Sun Kunxie, the Duke of Dian, said to the emperor with tears in his eyes: "Li Guang's talent is unparalleled in the world." He relied on his own ability and fought against the enemy many times, fearing that he would be sacrificed.
So he was transferred to the prefecture of Shangjun.
The Huns invaded Shangjun, and the emperor sent noble men to follow Li Guang and lead his own troops to fight against the Huns.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
中贵人者数十骑从，见匈奴三人，与战。
射伤中贵人，杀其骑且尽。
中贵人走广，广曰： 是必射雕者也。
广乃从百骑往驰三人。
三人亡马步行，行数十里。
广令其骑张左右翼，而广身自射彼三人者，杀其二人，生得一人，果匈奴射雕者也。
已缚之上山，望匈奴数千骑，见广，以为诱骑，惊，上山陈。
广之百骑皆大恐，欲驰还走。
广曰： 我去大军数十里，今如此走，匈奴追射，我立尽。
今我留，匈奴必以我为大军之诱，不我击。
广令曰： 前！
未到匈奴陈二里所，止，令曰： 皆下马解鞍！
骑曰： 虏多如是，解鞍，即急，奈何？
广曰： 彼虏以我为走，今解鞍以示不去，用坚其意。
有白马将出护兵。
广上马，与十余骑奔射杀白马将，而复还至其百骑中，解鞍，纵马卧。
时会暮，胡兵终怪之，弗敢击。
夜半，胡兵以为汉有伏军于傍欲夜取之，即引去。
translation: 
The noble man galloped with dozens of cavalry, met three Huns, and fought with them.
The three Huns turned around and fired arrows, wounding the noble man and killing almost all the cavalry he had brought with him.
The noble man ran to Li Guang. Li Guang said: This must be the Condor Shooter.
Li Guang then led a hundred cavalry to chase the three men.
The three men walked dozens of miles without riding horses.
Li Guang ordered his cavalry to disperse to the left and right, and Li Guang shot the three men himself, killing two and capturing one alive. It turned out to be the Huns' eagle shooter.
As soon as they tied up the man and went up the mountain, they saw thousands of Xiongnu cavalry. They saw Li Guang and thought it was the cavalry who was seducing them. They were all surprised and went up the mountain to get ready.
Li Guang's one hundred cavalry were frightened and wanted to run back quickly.
Li Guang said: We are dozens of miles away from the main army. If we run away with a hundred cavalry like this, if the Huns chase and shoot us, we will all die immediately.
Now that we stop, the Xiongnu must think that we are decoys of the army and will not dare to attack us.
Li Guang ordered: Forward!
After entering about two miles away from the Huns' position, they stopped and ordered: "Everyone, dismount and unsaddle!"
His cavalry said: There are many enemies and they are close. What if there is an emergency after unsaddled?
Li Guang said: Those enemies thought that we would escape, and now they took off their saddles to show that they would not leave. They used this method to confirm their suspicions.
So the Huns' cavalry finally did not dare to attack.
A general on a white horse came out to guard his soldiers. Li Guang mounted his horse, galloped over with more than a dozen cavalry, and shot the Xiongnu general on a white horse to death. Then he returned to his cavalry, took off the saddle, and ordered the soldiers to let go of their horses and lie down.
It was almost dusk on this beautiful day, and the Huns soldiers were always uncertain and did not dare to attack.
In the middle of the night, the Huns also thought that the Han army had an ambush nearby and would attack them at night, so the Huns all retreated.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
平旦，广乃归其大军。
后徙为陇西、北地、雁门中云中太守。
武帝即位，左右言广名将也，由是入为未央卫尉，而程不识时亦为长乐卫尉。
程不识故与广俱以边太守将屯。
及出击胡，而广行无部曲行陈，就善水草顿舍，人人自便，不击刁斗自卫，莫府省文书，然亦远斥候，未尝遇害。
程不识正部曲行伍营陈，击刁斗，吏治军簿至明，军不得自便。
不识曰： 李将军极简易，然虏卒犯之，无以禁；而其士亦佚乐，为之死。
我军虽烦忧，虏亦不得犯我。
是时，汉边郡李广、程不识为名将，然匈奴畏广，士卒多乐从，而苦程不识。
不识孝景时以数直谏为太中大夫，为人廉，谨于文法。
后汉诱单于以马邑城，使大军伏马邑傍，而广为骁骑将军，属护军将军。
单于觉之，去，汉军皆无功。
translation: 
Early the next morning, Li Guangcai returned to his main army.
Later, he successively served as the prefect of Longxi, Beidi, Yanmen and Yunzhong.
When Emperor Wu came to the throne, his ministers said that Li Guang was a famous general, so Li Guang was transferred to the Weiyang Palace Guards, while Cheng Bushi also served as the Changle Palace Guards at that time.
In the past, Cheng Bushi and Li Guang both led the army as governors of border counties and stationed fields to guard the border.
When he sent out troops to attack the Huns, Li Guang's army did not have strict organization, queues or formations. They stationed themselves near good water sources and grasslands, and stayed and stayed at their own convenience. They did not patrol or patrol at night to defend themselves. The military's documents and books were kept simple, but reconnaissance posts were also set up in the distance, so they did not encounter any danger.
Cheng Bushi strictly required the establishment, formation and formation, and patrolled at night, and the officers processed military documents until dawn, and the troops were not allowed to do what they wanted.
Cheng Bushi said: Li Guang's troops were very casual, but when the enemy suddenly attacked them, they were unable to parry them; and his soldiers were comfortable and happy, and they were all willing to die for him.
Although my troops are busy and busy, the enemy does not dare to invade us.
At that time, Li Guang and Cheng Bushi, the prefects of border counties in the Han Dynasty, were famous generals. However, the Huns were afraid of Li Guang's strategy, and the soldiers mostly liked to follow Li Guang but were reluctant to follow Cheng Bushi.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Cheng Bushi was appointed Taizhong doctor because of his repeated outspoken advice. He is an honest man and obeys the law.
Later, the Han Dynasty used the city of Mayi to lure Chanyu. A large army was sent to ambush in the valley near Mayi. Li Guang served as the general of the cavalry and was controlled by the guard general Han Anguo.
At that time, Shanyu noticed this situation and retreated, leaving the Han army with no military exploits.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
后四岁，广以卫尉为将军，出雁门击匈奴。
匈奴兵多，破广军，生得广。
单于素闻广贤，令曰： 得李广必生致之。
胡骑得广，广时伤，置两马间。
络而盛卧。行十余里，广阳死，睨其傍有一儿骑善马，暂腾而上胡儿马，因抱儿鞭马南驰数十里，得其余军。
匈奴骑数百追之，广行取儿弓射杀追骑，以故得脱。
于是至汉，汉下广吏。
吏当广亡失多，为虏所生得，当斩，赎为庶人。
数岁，与故颍阴侯屏居蓝田南山中射猎。
尝夜从一骑出，从人田间饮。
还至亭，霸陵尉醉，呵止广，广骑曰： 故李将军。
尉曰： 今将军尚不得夜行，何故也！
宿广亭下。
translation: 
Four years later, Li Guang was transferred from a guard to a general and attacked the Huns from Yanmen County.
The Huns had more soldiers and defeated Li Guang's army and captured Li Guang alive.
Shan Yu always heard that Li Guang was talented and issued an order: If Li Guang is captured, he must be delivered alive.
The Huns cavalry captured Li Guang, who was injured at the time. They placed Li Guang between the two horses and used ropes to form a net bag for Li Guang to lie down.
After walking for more than ten miles, Li Guang pretended to be dead and squinted at a Hun boy riding a good horse next to him. Li Guang suddenly jumped up, climbed on the Hun boy's horse, held the boy in his arms and rode south for dozens of miles, and gathered the remaining troops of him.
Hundreds of Xiongnu cavalry chased him. As he ran, Li Guang picked up the bow and arrow of the Xiongnu boy and shot the chasing cavalry to death, thus escaping.
So he returned to the Han capital, and the Han court handed Li Guang over to the judge.
The judge ruled that Li Guang had lost many men and horses and was captured alive by the enemy. He should be beheaded and use money to atone and become a civilian.
A few years later, Li Guang and Guan Qiang, the grandson of the former Yingyin Marquis who had retired to Lantian County, often went hunting in the Nanshan Mountains.
One night, I went out with a cavalryman and drank with others in the fields.
Returning to Ba Ling Pavilion, Ba Lingwei was drunk and yelled at Li Guang to stop him. Li Guang's subordinates said: This is the former General Li.
Tingwei said: The current general cannot pass at night, let alone his predecessor!
Li Guang was detained and lodged under Baling Pavilion.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
居无何，匈奴入辽西，杀太守，败韩将军。
韩将军后徙居右北平，死。
于是上乃召拜广为右北平太守。
广请霸陵尉与俱，至军而斩之，上书自陈谢罪。
上报曰： 将军者，国之爪牙也。
《司马法》曰： 登车不式，遭丧不服，振旅抚师，以征不服，率三军之心，同战士之力，故怒形则千里竦，威振则万物状；是以名声暴于夷貉，威棱憺乎邻国。 夫报忿除害，捐残去杀，朕之所图于将军也；若乃免冠徒跣，稽颡请罪，岂朕之指哉！
将军其率师东辕，弥节白檀，以临右北平盛秋。
广在郡，匈奴号曰 汉飞将军 ，避之，数岁不入界。
广出猎，见草中石，以为虎而射之，中石没矢，视之，石也，他日射之，终不能入矣。
translation: 
Soon after, the Xiongnu invaded and killed the governor of Liaoxi and defeated General Han.
Later, General Han was transferred to Youbeiping and died.
So the emperor recruited and appointed Li Guang as the right governor of Beiping.
Li Guang then asked to send Lieutenant Ba Ling to go with him and kill him when he arrived in the army. Then he wrote a letter to apologize.
The emperor replied: Generals are the backbone of the country's defense.
The Art of War in "Sima Fa" says: There is no need to salute when boarding a chariot, and there is no need to wear mourning clothes when encountering a funeral. Reorganize and appease the army to conquer rebellion; unify the will of the three armies and stimulate the combat effectiveness of the soldiers. Therefore, showing anger can shock thousands of miles, and showing majesty can surrender. All things; therefore, the prestige is applied to the minority areas, and the power of the gods frightens the neighboring countries. He uses his anger to eradicate the harm and makes them give up cruelty and massacre. This is exactly what I want the general to do; if he takes off his hat, barefoot and kowtows to apologize, it is not my will!
The general should lead his army to consolidate the army and stabilize the frontiers to welcome the battle in the golden autumn of Youbeiping.
When Li Guang was in the border county, the Huns gave him the title of "Han Fei General", and they avoided Li Guang and did not enter the border for several years.
Li Guang went out hunting and saw a stone in the grass. He thought it was a tiger and shot an arrow. The arrow penetrated the stone. When he got closer, he saw that it was a stone. Then I tried to ejaculate again, but I couldn't ejaculate anymore.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
广所居郡闻有虎，常自射之。
及居右北平射虎，虎腾伤广，广亦射杀之。
石建卒，上召广代为郎中令。
元朔六年，广复为将军，从大将军出定襄。
诸将多中首虏率为侯者，而广军无功。
后三岁，广以郎中令将四千骑出右北平，博望侯张骞将万骑与广俱，异道。
行数百里，匈奴左贤王将四万骑围广，广军士皆恐，广乃使其子敢往驰之。
敢从数十骑直贯胡骑，出其左右而还，报广曰： 胡虏易与耳。
军士乃安。
为圜陈外乡，胡急击，矢下如雨。
汉兵死者过半，汉矢且尽。
广乃令持满毋发，而广身自以大黄射其裨将，杀数人，胡虏益解。
会暮，吏士无人色，而广意气自如，益治军。
军中服其勇也。
明日，复力战，而博望侯军亦军，匈奴乃解去。
汉军邑，弗能追。
是时，广军几没，罢归。
汉法，博望侯后期，当死，赎为庶人。
广军自当，亡赏。
translation: 
In the county where Li Guang was located, when he heard that there was a tiger, he often went to shoot it himself.
When he was stationed in Youbei, he shot a tiger once. The tiger jumped up and wounded Li Guang. Li Guang also shot the tiger to death.
Lang Zhongling Shi Jian passed away, so the emperor recruited Li Guang to replace Shi Jian as Lang Zhongling.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Li Guang was transferred to the rank of general and followed the general's army to attack the Huns from Dingxiang County.
Many of the generals were awarded the title of Marquis for their meritorious service for killing and capturing the enemy, but Li Guang's troops had no merit.
Three years later, Li Guang, as Lang Zhongling, led four thousand cavalry from Youbeiping. Bowang Hou Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry and went with Li Guang in two directions.
After walking for several hundred miles, King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led 40,000 cavalry to surround Li Guang. Li Guang's soldiers were frightened, so Li Guang sent his son Li Gan to attack the enemy with a fast horse.
Li Gan galloped away with dozens of cavalry alone, passed through the encirclement of the Huns' cavalry, picked out the enemy's left and right wings, and returned, reporting to Li Guang: "The Huns are easy to deal with."
The soldiers finally settled down.
Li Guang formed a circular formation, facing the outside world. The Huns attacked them fiercely, raining down arrows.
More than half of the Han soldiers died, and the Han army was almost running out of arrows.
Li Guang ordered the soldiers to draw their bows and not to release arrows. Li Guang personally used the big yellow crossbow to shoot at the enemy's lieutenants, killing several of them, and the Huns gradually relaxed.
It happened to be dark, and the officers and soldiers were pale, but Li Guang looked as usual and commanded the army more energetically.
The soldiers in the army admired his courage.
The next day, they continued to fight hard, and Bowang Hou's army also arrived, and the Huns army finally relieved the siege.
The Han army was tired and could not pursue him.
At this time, Li Guang's army was almost wiped out and he had to withdraw his troops.
According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, Bowang Hou delayed the scheduled date and was sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a commoner.
Li Guang's military merit was equal to his criminal responsibility, so he was not rewarded.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
初，广与从弟李蔡俱为郎，事文帝。
景帝时，蔡积功至二千石。
武帝元朔中，为轻车将军，从大将军击右贤王，有功中率，封为乐安侯。
元狩二年，代公孙弘为丞相。
蔡为人在下中，名声出广下远甚，然广不得爵邑，官不过九卿。
广之军吏及士卒或取封侯。
广与望气王朔语云： 自汉击匈奴，广未尝不在其中，而诸妄校尉已下，材能不及中，以军功取侯者数十人。广不为后人，然终无尺寸功以得封邑者，何也？
岂吾相不当侯邪？
朔曰： 将军自念，岂尝有恨者乎？
广曰： 吾为陇西守，羌尝反，吾诱降者八百余人，诈而同日杀之，至今恨独此耳。
朔曰： 祸莫大于杀已降，此乃将军所以不得侯者也。
广历七郡太守，前后四十余年，得赏赐，辄分其戏下，饮食与士卒共之。
家无余财，终不言生产事。
translation: 
At the beginning, Li Guang and his cousin Li Cai were both appointed as Langguan and served Emperor Xiaowen together.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Li Cai received a salary of two thousand stone levels for his accumulated merit.
During the Yuanshuo period of Emperor Xiaowu, he served as General of Qingchao and followed the general to attack King Youxian. His meritorious service reached the standard of reward and he was named Marquis of Le'an.
In the second year of Yuanshou, he replaced Gongsun Hong as prime minister.
Li Cai's character was among the lowest, and his reputation was far below that of Li Guang. However, Li Guang did not receive a title or fief, and his official position did not exceed Jiuqing.
Many of Li Guang's officers and soldiers were awarded the title of Marquis.
Li Guang once chatted with Wang Shuo, a Wangqi master, and said: Ever since the Han Dynasty attacked the Huns, I have never been absent from them. However, the talents of each army commander and below are not average enough. However, there are dozens of people who have obtained marquises because of their military exploits in attacking the Huns. However, I did not fall behind others, but I did not have a small amount of merit to obtain a fief. What is the reason?
Shouldn’t my life be granted a title of marquis?
Wang Shuo said: General, think about it yourself, has there ever been any regret?
Li Guang said: I was once the governor of Longxi. The Qiang people rebelled. I lured them to surrender. More than 800 people surrendered. I used deception to kill them on the same day. So far, my biggest regret is only this incident.
Wang Shuo said: There is no greater sin than killing someone who has surrendered. This is why the general cannot be granted the title of marquis.
Li Guang served as the governor of seven counties for more than 40 years. After receiving rewards, he immediately distributed them to his subordinates, and shared his food and drink with the soldiers.
There is no extra property in the family, and I have never talked about buying property in my life.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
为人长，爰臂，其善射亦天性，虽子孙他人学者莫能及。
广呐口少言，与人居，则画地为军陈，射阔狭以饮。
专以射为戏。
将兵，乏绝处见水，士卒不尽饮，不近水；不尽餐，不尝食；宽缓不苛，士以此爱乐为用。
其射，见敌，非在数十步之内，度不中不发，发即应弦而倒。
用此，其将数困辱，及射猛兽，亦数为所伤云。
元狩四年，大将军票骑将军大击匈奴，广数自请行。
上以为老，不许；良久乃许之，以为前将军。
大将军青出塞，捕虏知单于所居，乃自以精兵走之，而令广并于右将军军，出东道。
东道少回远，大军行，水草少，其势不屯行。
translation: 
Li Guang was tall, long-armed, and talented in archery. Even if his descendants and others learned archery from him, they could not catch up with him.
Li Guang was arrogant and did not talk much to others. He lived with others and drew battle formations on the ground. He shot arrows wider and narrower than the area he shot. If he lost, he drank wine as a penalty.
Specialized in archery as a game.
When leading troops on the march, they encounter a shortage of food and water. When they see water, not all the soldiers drink the water. He does not go near the water. Not all the soldiers have food. He does not taste the food. He treats soldiers generously and carefully, so soldiers like to work for him.
When he shoots an arrow and sees an enemy within a few dozen steps, he probably won't hit the target and will fall to the ground as soon as he shoots.
Therefore, he led his troops in battle and was besieged by the enemy many times. He even shot wild beasts and was injured several times.
In the fourth year of Yuanshou, the generals and hussar generals sent out large-scale troops to attack the Xiongnu. Li Guang took the initiative to request to go several times.
The emperor thought he was old and did not allow him. After a long time, he finally allowed him and sent him to serve as a former general.
General Wei Qing left the border fortress, captured prisoners, and learned where Shan Yu lived. He personally led his elite troops to attack, and ordered Li Guang's troops to merge with General Right's troops to attack from the east.
The east road is a little circuitous, and the large army is traveling through a place with few water and grass, so it is unable to gather and march.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
广辞曰： 臣部为前将军，今大将军乃徙臣出东道，且臣结发而与匈奴战，乃令一得当单于，臣愿居前，先死单于。
大将军阴受上指，以为李广数奇，毋令当单于，恐不得所欲。
是时，公孙敖新失侯，为中将军，大将军亦欲使敖与俱当单于，故徙广。
广知之，固辞。
大将军弗听，令长史封书与广之莫府，曰： 急诣部，如书。
广不谢大将军而起行，意象愠怒而就部，引兵与右将军食其合军出东道。
惑失道，后大将军。
大将军与单于接战，单于遁走，弗能得而还。
南绝幕，乃遇两将军。
广已见大将军，还入军。
大将军使长史持糒醪遗广，因问广、食其失道状，曰： 青欲上书报天子失军曲折。
广未对。
大将军长史急责广之莫府上簿。
广曰： 诸校尉亡罪，乃我自失道。吾今自上簿。
至莫府，谓其麾下曰： 广结发与匈奴大小七十余战，今幸从大将军出接单于兵，而大将军徙广部行回远，又迷失道，岂非天哉！
且广年六十余，终不能复对刀笔之吏矣！
translation: 
Li Guang personally requested: "I am a former general of the army, but now the general has asked me to send troops from the east route. Besides, I have been fighting against the Xiongnu since I was young. Today is the first time I have to fight against the Shanyu. I am willing to be the vanguard and fight the Shanyu to the death first."
General Wei Qing was secretly instructed by the emperor, thinking that Li Guang was old and had suffered many embarrassments, so he should not be allowed to confront Shanyu head-on, as he might not be able to realize his wish.
At this time, Gongsun Ao had recently lost a marquis and was serving as lieutenant general. The general also wanted Gongsun Ao to fight against Shanyu with him, so he transferred former general Li Guang.
Li Guang knew this situation at the time and resolutely refused to be transferred to the general.
The general refused to listen and ordered the chief historian to send a document to Li Guang's shogunate, saying: Go to the military headquarters where you are and do as the document says.
Li Guang set out without saying goodbye to the general. He went to the military headquarters in anger, led his soldiers and the right general to the place where they joined forces, and set off from the east road.
He lost his way and fell behind the general.
The general fought with Shanyu, but Shanyu fled and returned without any victory.
The army crossed the desert southward before meeting the former general and the right general.
After Li Guang met with the general, he returned to his army.
The general sent Chang Shi to bring wine and food to Li Guang, and asked Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi how they had lost their way, and said: "Wei Qing wants to write a letter to report the twists and turns in the emperor's army."
Li Guang didn't answer.
General Shi ordered Li Guang's shogunate staff to write a report and go to the hearing.
Li Guang said: "The captains are not guilty. It was me who lost my way. Now I will give a confession in person and wait for interrogation."
Returning to his shogunate, Li Guang said to his subordinates: I have experienced more than seventy battles with the Xiongnu since I was young. This time I had the honor to follow the general to fight against Shanyu's direct troops. However, the general sent my troops to take a circuitous and distant road, and they lost their way again. Isn't it God's will?
Besides, I am over sixty years old, and after all, I can no longer deal with the insults of interrogators.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
遂引刀自刭。
百姓闻之，知与不知，老壮皆为垂泣。
而右将军独下吏，当死，赎为遮人。
广三子，曰当户、椒、敢，皆为郎。
上与韩嫣戏，嫣少不逊，当户击嫣，嫣走，于是上以为能。
当户蚤死，乃拜椒为代郡太守，皆先广死。
广死军中时，敢从票骑将军。
广死明年，李蔡以丞相坐诏赐冢地阳陵当得二十亩，蔡盗取三顷，颇卖得四十余万，又盗取神道外壖地一亩葬其中，当下狱，自杀。
敢以校尉从票骑将军击胡左贤王，力战，夺左贤王旗鼓，斩首多，赐爵关内侯，食邑二百户，代广为郎中令。
顷之，怨大将军青之恨其父，乃击伤大将军，大将军匿讳之。
居无何，敢从上雍，至甘泉宫猎，票骑将军去病怨敢伤青，射杀敢。
translation: 
Then he took out his knife and killed himself.
When the people heard this, whether they knew him or not, whether they were old or young, they all shed tears for him.
The right general Zhao Shiqi was sent to the judge alone and sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang had three sons, named Li Danghu, Li Jiao, and Li Gan, all of whom served as Lang Guan.
One time the emperor was playing with Han Yan, and Han Yan was a little rude. Li Danghu hit Han Yan, and Han Yan ran away, so the emperor thought Li Danghu was brave.
Li Danghu died early, and the emperor appointed Li Jiao as the prefect of Daijun, both of whom died before Li Guang.
When Li Guang died in the army, Li Gan was following the hussar general.
In the second year after Li Guang's death, Li Cai became the prime minister. He should be punished by the judge for occupying the open space of Emperor Xiaojing's Yangling Mausoleum. The open space given to him at that time was only 20 acres, and Li Cai occupied three hectares. After selling the land, he received more than 400,000 yuan. He also occupied an acre of land outside the Shinto as a cemetery. He was sentenced to prison, so Li Cai also committed suicide.
As a school captain, Li Gan followed the hussar general to attack King Zuoxian of the Huns. He fought hard and captured King Zuoxian's war drum and flag. He beheaded many of the enemies. He was awarded the title of Marquis of Dingguannei and enjoyed the title of 200 households. He succeeded Li Guang as the doctor's order.
Soon, Li Gan resented the general Wei Qing for causing his father to die out of hatred, so he wounded the general, but the general concealed the incident.
Not long after, Li Gan accompanied the emperor to Yongzhou Ganquan Palace for hunting. General Huo Qubing resented Li Gan for injuring Wei Qing and shot Li Gan to death.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
去病时方贵幸，上为讳，云 鹿触杀之 。
居岁余，去病死。
敢有女为太子中人，爱幸。
敢男禹有宠于太子，然好利，亦有勇。
尝与侍中贵人饮，侵陵之，莫敢应。
后诉之上，上召禹，使刺虎，县下圈中，未至地，有诏引出之。
禹从落中以剑斫绝累，欲刺虎。
上壮之，遂救止焉。
而当户有遗腹子陵，将兵击胡，兵败，降匈奴。
后人告禹谋欲亡从陵，下吏死。
陵字少卿，少为侍中建章监。
善骑射，爱人，谦让下士，甚得名誉。
武帝以为有广之风，使将八百骑，深入匈奴二千余里，过居延视地形，不见虏，还。
拜为骑都尉，将勇敢五千人，教射酒泉、张掖以备胡。
translation: 
Huo Qubing was favored by the nobles at that time, but the emperor concealed the truth and said that a wild deer killed him.
More than a year later, Huo Qubing died.
Li Gan had a daughter who was the prince's maid and was favored.
Li Gan's son Li Yu was also favored by the prince, but he was fond of wealth and had courage.
He once drank with a nobleman in his attendants and insulted him, but the nobleman did not dare to say anything.
Later, he told the emperor. The emperor summoned Li Yu and asked him to stab the tiger. He hung down to the tiger enclosure, but before he reached the ground, he ordered Li Yu to be pulled up.
Li Yu cut the rope from the net and wanted to stab the tiger.
The emperor thought he was brave, so he rescued him and stopped him from stabbing the tiger.
Li Danghu had a posthumous son named Li Ling, who led an army to attack the Huns. He was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
Later, someone accused Li Yu of trying to follow Li Ling and was executed.
Li Ling, whose courtesy name is Shaoqing, was appointed as the Jian Zhang Supervisor of the Imperial Palace when he was young.
He is good at riding and shooting, loves and cares for others, and is humble to his subordinates. He has a good reputation.
Emperor Wu felt that he had Li Guang's demeanor, so he asked him to lead 800 cavalry and penetrated more than 2,000 miles into the Huns' territory. He passed through the Juyan area and inspected the terrain. When the Huns were not seen, he returned.
He worshiped the official Cavalry Captain and led 5,000 warriors to teach archery in Jiuquan and Zhangye areas to prevent the Huns from invading.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
数年，汉遣贰师将军伐大宛，使陵将五校兵随后。
行至塞，会贰师还。
上赐陵书，陵留吏士，与轻骑五百出敦煌，至盐水，迎贰师还，复留屯张掖。
天汉二年，贰师将三万骑出酒泉，击右贤王于天山。
召陵，欲使为贰师将辎重。
陵召见武台，叩头自请曰： 臣所将屯边者，皆荆楚勇士奇材剑客也，力扼虎，射命中，愿得自当一队，到兰干山南以分单于兵，毋令专乡贰师军。
上曰： 将恶相属邪！
吾发军多，毋骑予女。
陵对： 无所事骑，臣愿以少击众，步兵五千人涉单于庭。
上壮而许之，因诏强弩都尉路博德将兵半道迎陵军。
translation: 
A few years later, the Han Dynasty sent the general of the Second Division to attack Dawan, and sent Li Ling to lead five schools of troops to follow.
When marching to the frontier fortress, he met the general of the Second Division returning.
The emperor gave Li Ling a letter, and Li Ling left his officers and soldiers behind. He left Dunhuang with 500 light cavalry and went to Yanyan to welcome the return of the general of the second division, and then stationed at Zhangye.
In the second year of Tianhan, the general of the Second Division led 30,000 cavalry to Jiuquan to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Tianshan Mountains.
The emperor summoned Li Ling and wanted him to serve as the general's baggage transporter.
Li Ling was summoned at Wutai, kowtowed and said: "The border soldiers led by me are all brave and talented swordsmen from Jingchu. They are strong enough to choke tigers and can hit the target with arrows. I hope to lead a group independently to the south of Langan Mountain to attract Shan Yu's troops and prevent the Huns from concentrating their forces to attack the general of the Second Division."
The emperor said: Where can I allocate your troops?
I have sent many troops, but I have no cavalry left for you.
Li Ling replied: There is no need to send cavalry. I am willing to attack the masses with a small number. Five thousand infantry can march into the court of Shan Yu.
The emperor thought he was brave and agreed, so he ordered Lu Bode, the captain of Qiannu, to lead his troops to meet Li Ling's army on the way.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
博德故伏波将军，亦羞为陵后距，奏言： 方秋匈奴马肥，未可与战，臣愿留陵至春，俱将酒泉、张掖骑各五千人并击东西浚稽，可必禽也。
书奏，上怒，疑陵悔不欲出而教博德上书，乃诏博德： 吾欲予李陵骑，云 欲以少击众 。今虏入西河，其引兵走西河，遮钩营之道。
诏陵： 以九月发，出庶虏鄣，至东浚稽山南龙勒水上，徘徊观虏，即亡所见，从浞野侯赵破奴故道抵受降城休士，因骑置以闻。
所与博德言者云何？
具以书对。 陵于是将其步卒五千人出居延，北行三十日，至浚稽山止营，举图所过山川地形，使麾下骑陈步乐还以闻。
步乐召见，道陵将率得士死力，上甚说，拜步乐为郎。
陵至浚稽山，与单于相直，骑可三万围陵军。
军居两山间，以大车为营。
陵引士出营外为陈，前行持戟盾，后行持弓弩，令曰： 闻鼓声而纵，闻金声而止。
虏见汉军少，直前就营。陵搏战攻之，千弩俱发，应弦而倒。
translation: 
Lu Bode was originally General Fubo, and he was ashamed to be Li Ling's rear guard. He wrote in a memorial: "In the autumn when the Xiongnu horses are fat, we must not fight with them. I am willing to keep Li Ling until spring. At the same time, I will lead the Jiuquan and Zhangye cavalry of 5,000 men each to attack the east and west to dredge Ji. I will definitely capture the Chanyu."
After the letter was written, the emperor was furious. He suspected that Li Ling regretted not sending troops, so he asked Lu Bode to write the letter. He then issued an edict to Lu Bode and said: I want to send Li Ling cavalry. He said that he wants to attack the masses with a small number. Now that the Huns have entered the Xihe River, our army should lead the troops to the Xihe River. You should go to Hook Camp to stop the enemy.
He also issued an edict to Li Ling: Starting in September, we will send troops to cover the captives and go to the Longle River in the south of Shujunji Mountain. We will go back and forth to look for the Xiongnu. If no enemy troops are found, we will go to the old road of Ponu through the Zhaoye Marquis to receive the soldiers who surrendered to the city to rest and rest according to the arrangements of the cavalry post.
Whatever I said to Lu Bod, I wrote everything down and reported it.
So Li Ling led five thousand infantrymen from Juyan, marched north for thirty years, and stationed at Junji Mountain. He mapped out all the terrain of the mountains and rivers he passed, and sent his subordinates, the cavalry general Chen Bule, to report to the court.
Chen Bule was summoned and stated Li Ling's ability as a general to obtain the service of soldiers. The emperor was very happy and worshiped Chen Bule as his husband.
Li Ling went to Junji Mountain and encountered Shanyu. Li Ling's army was surrounded by 30,000 cavalry.
Li Ling's army was camped with carts between the two mountains.
Li Ling led his soldiers out of the camp to form a battle formation, holding halberds and shields in the front, and bows and crossbows in the rear. He gave the order: "Advance when you hear the sound of drums, and stop when you hear the sound of buttons."
When the Xiongnu saw that there were few Han soldiers, they rushed straight to the front of the camp. Li Ling fought and attacked each other. Thousands of crossbows were fired in unison, and the enemy troops fell down in response.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
虏还走上山，汉军追击，杀数千人。
单于大惊，召左右地兵八万余骑攻陵。
陵且战且引，南行数日，抵山谷中。
连战，士卒中矢伤，三创者载辇，两创者将车，一创者持兵战。
陵曰： 吾士气少衰而鼓不起者，何也？
军中岂有女子乎？
始军出时，关东群盗妻子徙边者随军为卒妻妇，大匿车中。
陵搜得，皆剑斩之。
明日复战，斩首三千余级。
引兵东南，循故龙城道行四五日，抵大泽葭苇中，虏从上风纵火，陵亦令军中纵火以自救。
南行至山下，单于在南山上，使其子将骑击陵。
陵军步斗树木间，复杀数千人，因发连弩射单于，单于下走。
是日捕得虏，言： 单于曰： 此汉精兵，击之不能下，日夜引吾南近塞，得毋有伏兵乎？
translation: 
The Xiongnu retreated up the mountain, and the desert army attacked, killing thousands of enemy soldiers.
Chanyu was shocked and summoned more than 80,000 infantry and cavalry men to attack Li Ling.
Kui Tong fought and retreated, heading south for several times, and reached the valley.
During the continuous fighting, the soldiers were injured by arrows. Three of them were wounded lying in the car, two were injured while driving, and one was injured while holding a weapon while fighting.
Li Ling said: What is the reason why our army's morale has declined and cannot be boosted?
Are there women in the army?
When the troops began to be sent out, the wives of the bandits from Guandong who moved to the border followed the army and became soldiers' wives, hiding deep in the cars.
Langlu searched them out and killed them all.
They fought again the next day and killed more than 3,000 enemy soldiers.
He led his army to march southeast, marching along the old Longcheng road, and arrived in Jiaweizhong, Daze, in four or five days. The Huns set fire to it from the upper wind, and Li Ling also asked the army to set fire to the isolation zone to save himself.
Traveling south to the foot of the mountain, Shanyu was on Nanshan and sent his son to lead the cavalry to attack Li Ling.
Li Ling's army fought in the woods and killed thousands of enemy troops. He shot Shanyu with repeating crossbows, and Shanyu retreated down the mountain.
On this day, they captured prisoners and confessed: Shan Yu said: These are elite soldiers of the Han Dynasty. Attacking cannot win. They lure me south to the border day and night. Will there be an ambush?


Chunk 14: 
original: 
诸当户君长皆言： 单于自将数万骑击汉数千人不能灭，后无以复使边臣，令汉益轻匈奴。
复力战山谷间，尚四五十里得平地，不能破，乃还。
是时，陵军益急，匈奴骑多，战一日数十合，复伤杀虏二千余人。
虏不利，欲去，会陵军候管敢为校尉所辱，亡降匈奴，具言 陵军无后救，射矢且尽，独将军麾下及成安侯校各八百人为前行，以黄与白为帜，当使精骑射之即破矣。
成安侯者，颍川人，父韩千秋，故济南相，奋击南越战死，武帝封子延年为侯，以校尉随陵。
单于得敢大喜，使骑并攻汉军，疾呼曰： 李陵、韩延年趣降！
遂遮道急攻陵。
陵居谷中，虏在山上，四面射，矢如雨下。
汉军南行，未至鞮汗山，一日五十万矢皆尽，即弃车去。
士尚三千余人，徒斩车辐而持之，军吏持尺刀，抵山入峡谷。
单于遮其后，乘隅下垒石，士卒多死，不得行。
昏后，陵便衣独步出营，止左右： 毋随我，丈夫一取单于耳！
translation: 
The rulers of each tribe said: The Shanyu personally led tens of thousands of cavalry and could not destroy thousands of Han soldiers. He would no longer be able to send people to the border in the future, which would make the Han Dynasty despise the Huns even more.
Then fight in the valley, and there are still forty or fifty miles before reaching the level ground. If you can't defeat them, you will retreat.
At that time, Li Ling's army was even more critical. There were many Huns cavalry. They fought dozens of rounds a day and killed more than 2,000 enemy troops.
The Huns were at a disadvantage and wanted to retreat. When they met Li Ling's army, the captain dared to be humiliated by the captain and fled to surrender to the Huns. He told the situation of the Han army and said that Li Ling's army had no backup and was about to run out of arrows. He led his subordinates and the Cheng'anhou schoolmaster each as a forward force of 800 people. They used yellow and white flags and should use elite cavalry to shoot arrows to destroy the Han army.
The Marquis of Cheng'an was a native of Yingchuan. His father, Han Qianqiu, was originally the prime minister of Jinan. He died in battle during the expedition against South Vietnam. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made his son Yannian a Marquis and accompanied Li Ling on the expedition as a school captain.
Shanyu was overjoyed after getting Guan Gan, and sent cavalry to attack the desert army, shouting: Li Ling and Han Yannian surrender quickly!
So he blocked the road and attacked Li Ling.
The Han army is in the valley and the Huns are on the mountain. Arrows are raining down from all sides.
The Han army went south and did not reach the Tahan Mountains. It consumed 500,000 arrows in one day and immediately abandoned its chariots and retreated.
There were more than 3,000 soldiers, who just cut off the spokes of the vehicles and used them as weapons. The officers held short swords and went deep into the canyon.
Chanyu cut off the Han army's retreat and threw rocks into the mountains. The soldiers suffered heavy casualties and were unable to march.
After dusk, Li Ling walked out of the camp alone in plainclothes, stopped his entourage and said: "Don't follow me, the man can just catch the Shanyu alone!"


Chunk 15: 
original: 
良久，陵还，大息曰： 兵败，死矣！
军吏或曰： 将军威震匈奴，天命不遂，后求道径还归，如浞野侯为虏所得，后亡还，天子客遇之，况于将军乎！
陵曰： 公止！吾不死，非壮士也。
于是尽斩旌旗，及珍宝埋地中，陵叹曰： 复得数十矢，足以脱矣。
今无兵复战，天明坐受缚矣！
各鸟兽散，犹有得脱归报天子者。
令军士人持二升糒，一半冰，期至遮虏鄣者相待。
夜半时，击鼓起士，鼓不鸣。
陵与韩延年俱上马，壮士从者十余人。
虏骑数千追之，韩延年战死。
陵曰： 无面目报陛下！
遂降。
军人分散，脱至塞者四百余人。
陵败处去塞百余里，边塞以闻。
上欲陵死战，召陵母及妇，使相者视之，无死丧色。
后闻陵降，上怒甚，责问陈步乐，步乐自杀。
translation: 
It's been a long time. Li Ling came back and sighed and said: If the army is defeated, then die!
Some military officials said: The general is so powerful that the Xiongnu cannot fulfill his destiny. If he finds a way back in the future, he will be captured and escape like the Marquis of Zunye. The emperor will still treat him with courtesy, let alone the general!
Li Ling said: "Don't say that. If I don't die, I am not a strong man."
So he cut off all the flags and buried the treasures. Li Ling sighed and said: "With dozens of arrows, we can escape."
We don’t have any weapons to fight today, and we will wait to be captured at dawn!
Everyone runs away for their own lives, and there will be people who escape and repay the emperor.
The sergeants were ordered to bring two liters of grain and a large piece of ice each, and agreed to wait at Zheluzhang.
At midnight, we started beating the drums, but they didn't sound.
Li Ling and Han Yannian both mounted their horses, followed by more than a dozen strong men.
Thousands of cavalrymen pursued him, and Han Yannian died in the battle.
Li Xu said: I have no face to report to His Majesty!
So he surrendered.
The soldiers scattered and fled, and more than 400 people fled to the border fortress.
The place where Li Ling failed was more than a hundred miles away from the frontier fortress, and the frontier fortress reported the news.
The emperor hoped that Li Ling would fight to the death, so he summoned Li Ling's mother and wife and asked the fortune tellers to observe that there was no sign of mourning.
Later, when he heard that Li Ling had surrendered, the emperor was very angry and blamed Chen Bule, who committed suicide.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
群臣皆罪陵，上以问太史令司马迁，迁盛言： 陵事亲孝，与士信，常奋不顾身以殉国家之急。
其素所畜积也，有国士之风。
今举事一不幸，全躯保妻子之臣随而媒糵其短，诚可痛也！
且陵提步卒不满五千，深輮戎马之地，抑数万之师，虏救死扶伤不暇，悉举引弓之民共攻围之。
转斗千里，矢尽道穷，士张空拳，冒白刃，北首争死敌，得人之死力，虽古名将不过也。
身虽陷败，然其所摧败亦足暴于天下。
彼之不死，宜欲得当以报汉也。
初，上遣贰师大军出，财令陵为助兵，及陵与单于相值，而贰师功少。
上以迁诬罔，欲沮贰师，为陵游说，下迁腐刑。
久之，上悔陵无救，曰： 陵当发出塞，乃诏强弩都尉令迎军。
坐预诏之，得令老将生奸诈。
乃遣使劳赐陵余军得脱者。
陵在匈奴岁余，上遣因杅将军公孙敖将兵深入匈奴迎陵。
敖军无功还，曰： 捕得生口，言李陵教单于为兵以备汉军，故臣无所得。
上闻，于是族陵家，母弟妻子皆伏诛。
translation: 
All the ministers blamed Li Ling. The emperor asked Taishi Ling Sima Qian for his opinion on the matter. Sima Qian strongly said: Li Ling was filial to his relatives and honest to his scholars. He often risked his own life to save the country from danger.
Judging from his consistent performance, he has the style of a national scholar.
Today he did an unfortunate thing. Those ministers who were greedy for life and feared death and only cared about protecting the lives of their families, arbitrarily framed and exaggerated their crimes, which is heartbreaking!
Moreover, Li Ling only led less than 5,000 infantrymen and marched straight into the hinterland of the Xiongnu. Faced with tens of thousands of enemy troops, the Xiongnu failed to care for the wounded and rescued the dead, so they invited all the people who could archery to besiege Li Ling.
Li Ling fought thousands of miles, and the arrows were all over the place. The soldiers pulled empty crossbows and braved the rain of white-edged arrows, but they still fought desperately with the enemy. He could get the soldiers' desperate strength, and even the famous generals in ancient times could not surpass him.
Although he failed and was captured, his record of defeating the enemy was enough to shine in the world.
The reason why Li Ling did not die was because he wanted to serve the Han Dynasty at the appropriate time.
At the beginning, the emperor sent the generals of the Second Division to the expedition, and Li Ling was just an assisting soldier. When Li Ling encountered Shanyu, the Second Division had little military success.
The emperor accused Sima Qian of falsely accusing and slandering the second master and lobbying for Li Ling, and sentenced him to corruption.
After a long time, the emperor regretted not rescuing Li Ling in time and said: When Li Ling leaves the fortress, Captain Qiannu should be there to greet him.
After the imperial court issued an edict, veteran general Lu Bode became treacherous and annihilated Li Ling's army.
So he sent an envoy to comfort and reward the soldiers who escaped from Li Ling's army.
Li Ling had been with the Xiongnu for more than a year, and the emperor sent Yinjue General Gongsun Ao to lead his army deep into the Xiongnu to meet Li Ling.
Gongsun Ao's army returned without success and said: The captured prisoners said: Li Ling taught the Chanyu to use troops to defend against the Han army, so I gained nothing.
When the emperor heard the report, he exterminated the Li Lu family. His mother, younger brother, wife and son were all killed.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
陇西士大夫以李氏为愧。
其后，汉遣使使匈奴，陵谓使者曰： 吾为汉将步卒五千人横行匈奴，以亡救而败，何负于汉而诛吾家？
使者曰： 汉闻李少卿教匈奴为兵。
陵曰： 乃李绪，非我也。
李绪本汉塞外都尉，居奚侯城，匈奴攻之，绪降，而单于客遇绪，常坐陵上。
陵痛其家以李绪而诛，使人刺杀绪。
大阏氏欲杀陵，单于匿之北方，大阏氏死乃还。
单于壮陵，以女妻之，立为右校王，卫律为丁灵王，皆贵用事。
卫律者，父本长水胡人。
律生长汉，善协律都尉李延年，延年荐言律使匈奴。
使还，会延年家收，律惧并诛，亡还降匈奴。
匈奴爱之，常在单于左右。
陵居外，有大事，乃入议。
昭帝立，大将军霍光、左将军上官桀辅政，素与陵善，遣陵故人陇西任立政等三人俱至匈奴招陵。
立政等至，单于置酒赐汉使者，李陵、卫律皆侍坐。
立政等见陵，未得私语，即目视陵，而数数自循其刀环，握其足，阴谕之，言可还归汉也。
后陵、律持牛酒劳汉使，博饮，两人皆胡服椎结。
translation: 
The literati in Longxi were ashamed of Kuiya's annihilation of their clan.
Later, when the Han sent an envoy to the Xiongnu, Li Ling questioned the envoy: I led 5,000 infantrymen to sweep Lisu for the Han, but failed because there were no reinforcements to support me. How could I be so sorry to Lianshi and want to kill my whole family?
The envoy said: The Han Dynasty heard that Li Shaoqing taught how to use plastic bags and soldiers.
Li Xu said: It's Kui Ao, not me.
It turned out that Kui Xu was the captain outside the Great Wall and stationed in Shengbi. Yu Ku attacked and Kui Zhong surrendered.
Li Ling hated that his family was exterminated because of Li Xu, so he sent people to assassinate Li Xu.
The Daban clan wanted to kill Li Ling, so the Chanyu hid him in the north. He did not return until Dapi clan died.
Shanyu believed that Li Ling was brave and brave, so he married his daughter to Li Ling and made him the king of Youxiao, and Wei Lu was the king of Ding Ling. They were both respected and used in important positions.
Wei Lu's father was originally from Changshui.
Wei Lu grew up in Chui, and was friendly with Kui Yannian, the captain of Xie Lu. Kui Dan locust recommended Weasel to Lisu as an envoy.
When he returned, he encountered Kui Yannian's house being ransacked. Jie Jian was afraid of being killed, so he fled and surrendered to the Huns.
The Xiongnu loved him and always stayed by Shanyu's side.
Kuitong lived in the outer court. When there were important matters, he went inside to discuss matters.
Emperor Zhao was established as emperor, and General Huo Guang and Zuo General Shangguan Jie assisted in the administration. They had always been friendly with Li Ling. They sent Li Ling's old friend Ren Jiesheng from Longxi and three other people to Baosu to recruit Li Xu.
When Ren Lidi and others arrived at Baocu, Chanyu served wine to the envoy. Kui Lu and Dianlu were both present.
When Ren Lidi and others saw Li Xu, they had no chance to whisper, so they looked at Li Lu, touched the ring on the saber many times, felt Li Ling's feet, and hinted that he could return to the lotus.
Later, Kui Lu and Dean Qian both treated the envoys with beef and wine, and drank from different cups. Both of them wore Hu clothes and tied their hair in buns.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
立政大言曰： 汉已大赦，中国安乐，主上富于春秋，霍子孟、上官少叔用事。
以此言微动之。
陵墨不应，孰视而自循其发，答曰： 吾已胡服矣！
有顷，律起更衣，立政曰： 咄，少卿良苦！
霍子孟、上官少叔谢女。
陵曰： 霍与上官无恙乎？
立政曰： 请少卿来归故乡，毋忧富贵。
陵字立政曰： 少公，归易耳，恐再辱，奈何！
语未卒，卫律还，颇闻余语，曰： 李少卿贤者，不独居一国。
范蠡遍游天下，由余去戎人秦，今何语之亲也！
因罢去。
立政随谓陵曰： 亦有意乎？
陵曰： 丈夫不能再辱。
陵在匈奴二十余年，元平元年病死。
苏建，杜陵人也。
以校尉从大将军青击匈奴，封平陵侯。
以将军筑朔方。
后以卫尉为游击将军，从大将军出朔方。
translation: 
Ren Lizheng said loudly: The Han Dynasty has been granted amnesty, the Central Plains are peaceful and happy, the Lord is young, Huo Ziyi and Shangguan Shaoshu are in power.
Use these words to impress Li Ling first.
Li Ling remained silent, always looking at and stroking his hair, and replied: I have already put on Hufu!
After a while, Wei Lu got up to change his clothes, and Ren Lizheng said: Hey, sir, thank you for your hard work!
Huo Zimeng and Young Uncle Shangguan say hello to you.
Li Ling said: Are Huo and Shangguan okay?
Ren Lizheng said: Please return to your hometown, Shaoqing, and don't worry about wealth.
Li Ling called Ren Lizheng's name and said, "Young Master, it's easy to go back. I'm afraid I'll be humiliated again. What should I do?"
Before he finished speaking, Wei Lu returned and heard the lingering voice, so he continued: Li Shaoqing is a wise man who does not just live in one country.
Fan Li traveled all over the world, and Yu Yu left Xirong and went to Qin. Why are we talking so intimately today!
Then the banquet was removed.
Ren Lizheng immediately asked Li Ling: "Do you also intend to go back?"
Li Ling said: A true man cannot be humiliated a second time.
Li Ling stayed with the Xiongnu for more than 20 years and died of illness in the first year of Han Yuanping.
Su Jian was from Duling.
As a lieutenant, he followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns and was named Pinglinghou.
He also built Shuofang City as a general.
Later, he served as a guerrilla general as a guard and followed the general to send troops to Shuofang.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
后一岁，以右将军再从大将军出定襄，亡翕侯，失军当斩，赎为庶人。
其后为代郡太守，卒官。
有三子：嘉为奉车都尉，贤为骑都尉，中子武最知名。
武字子卿，少以父任，兄弟并为郎，稍迁至栘中厩监。
时汉连伐胡，数通使相窥观，匈奴留汉使郭吉、路充国等，前后十余辈。
匈奴使来，汉亦留之以相当。
天汉元年，且鞮侯单于初立，恐汉袭之，乃曰： 汉天子我丈人行也。
尽归汉使路充国等。
武帝嘉其义，乃遣武以中郎将使持节送匈奴使留在汉者，因厚赂单于，答其善意。
武与副中郎将张胜及假吏常惠等募士斥候百余人俱。
既至匈奴，置币遗单于。
单于益骄，非汉所望也。
方欲发使送武等，会缑王与长水虞常等谋反匈奴中。
缑王者，昆邪王姊子也，与昆邪王俱降汉，后随浞野侯没胡中。
及卫律所将降者，阴相与谋劫单于母阏氏归汉。
会武等至匈奴，虞常在汉时素与副张胜相知，私候胜曰： 闻汉天子甚怨卫律，常能为汉伏弩射杀之。
吾母与弟在汉，幸蒙其赏赐。
张胜许之，以货物与常。
后月余，单于出猎，独阏氏子弟在。
虞常等七十余人欲发，其一人夜亡，告之。单于子弟发兵与战。缑王等皆死，虞常生得。
单于使卫律治其事。
translation: 
A year later, as the right general, he once again followed the general to send troops to Dingxiang. He lost his troops and lost his generals. His general, Xihou Tuxin, fled and surrendered to the Huns. He lost his troops and should be executed on questioning. He was spared the death penalty for the civilians.
Later, he served as the prefect of Daijun and died in office.
He has three sons: Su Jia is the Captain of Fengche, Su Xian is the Captain of Cavalry, and the second son Su Wu is the most famous.
Su Wu, also known as Ziqing, was appointed as a Lang along with his brothers when he was young because his father Su Jian had made great contributions to the country. Su Wu was later gradually promoted to the supervisor of the Zhongzhong Stable.
At that time, the Han Dynasty continued to attack the Xiongnu. Both sides sent envoys to secretly observe the situation of the other side. The Xiongnu successively detained more than ten batches of Han envoys, including Guo Ji and Lu Chongguo.
When the Xiongnu envoys arrived, the Han Dynasty also detained them to compensate.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Shanyu, the marquis of Tartar, had just ascended the throne and was afraid of the Han Dynasty's attack, so he said: The emperor of the Han Dynasty is my elder.
Return all the detained Han Dynasty envoys such as Lu Chongguo and others.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty praised him for his righteousness, so he sent Su Wu as a Zhonglang general to escort the Huns envoys who were detained in the Han Dynasty with the Han Dynasty talisman, and presented Shanyu with many properties to repay his kindness.
Su Wu, his deputy envoy Han Zhonglang, Zhang Sheng, and Chang Hui, who temporarily served as the envoy's subordinates, recruited more than 100 soldiers and scouts to go to the Xiongnu.
After arriving at the Xiongnu, he arranged his belongings and presented them to Dan Ding.
Dan Ding was even more arrogant and not at all what the Han Dynasty expected.
Shan Yu was about to send an envoy to escort Su Wu and others back, when he caught up with King Feng and Changshui Yu Chang who were planning to rebel against the Xiongnu.
King Tan was the son of King Kunxie's sister. He surrendered to the Han Dynasty together with King Kunxie, and later accompanied Mozun Yehou to attack the Xiongnu, but was defeated and surrendered.
They and those who followed Wei Lu to surrender secretly planned to kidnap Shan Yu's mother Ban and return to the Han Dynasty. It happened that Su Wu and others were on an envoy to the Huns.
When Yu Chang was in the Han Dynasty, he had always had a good relationship with his deputy Zhang Sheng, so he secretly visited Zhang Sheng and said, "I heard that the emperor of the Han Dynasty was very resentful of Wei Lu. I can secretly set up a crossbow to kill him for the Han Dynasty."
My mother and younger brother are in the Han Dynasty, and I hope they can be rewarded for my meritorious service to the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Sheng agreed and gave Yu Chang some belongings.
More than a month later, Shanyu went out hunting, and only Ban and his attendants were at home.
Yu Chang and others prepared to attack more than ten people, but one of them escaped at night and reported to Shan Yu. Shan Yu and his men sent troops to fight Yu Chang and others in a fierce battle. King Feng and others were killed in the battle. Yu Chang was captured alive.
Shanyu appointed Wei Lv to review the incident.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
张胜闻之，恐前语发，以状语武。
武曰： 事如此，此必及我。
见犯乃死，重负国。
欲自杀，胜、惠共止之。
虞常果引张胜。
单于怒，召诸贵人议，欲杀汉使者。
左伊秩訾曰： 即谋单于，何以复加？
宜皆降之。
单于使卫律召武受辞，武谓惠等： 屈节辱命，虽生，何面目以归汉！
引佩刀自刺。
卫律惊，自抱持武，驰召。
凿地为坎，置煴火，覆武其上，蹈其背以出血。
武气绝半日，复息。
惠等哭，舆归营。
单于壮其节，朝夕遣人候问武，而收系张胜。
武益愈，单于使使晓武。会论虞常，欲因此时降武。
剑斩虞常已，律曰： 汉使张胜谋杀单于近臣，当死，单于募降者赦罪。
举剑欲击之，胜请降。
律谓武曰： 副有罪，当相坐。
translation: 
When Zhang Sheng heard the news, he was afraid that his previous conspiracy with Yu Chang would be leaked, so he told Su Wu the situation.
Su Wu said: Now that things have developed to this point, I will definitely be involved.
To die after being insulted would be a greater disservice to the country.
So he wanted to commit suicide, but Zhang Sheng and Chang Hui persuaded him to stop him.
As expected, Yu Chang confessed to Zhang Sheng.
Chanyu was furious and summoned the Xiongnu nobles to discuss killing the Han envoys.
Zuo Yi Zhizi said: If someone murders Shanyu, how should the punishment be increased?
It's better to let them all surrender.
Chan Yu then sent Wei Lu to summon Su Wu for interrogation. Su Wu said to Chang Hui and others: If you humiliate your integrity and the country's mission, even if you don't die, how can you have the face to return to the court?
He pulled out his sword and committed suicide.
Wei Lu was so shocked that he hugged Fu Wu personally and sent people to ride horses to find the doctor.
The doctor dug a hole in the ground, put in the fire, made Su Wu lie down on the fire pit, and tapped his back with his hand to make the blood flow out from the wound.
Su Wu fainted and took a long time to wake up.
Chang Hui and others carried him back to the camp in tears.
Chanyu admired his integrity very much, and sent people to inquire about his condition morning and night, and arrested Zhang Sheng.
Su Wu's injuries gradually improved. Shan Yu sent envoys to persuade him to surrender, and jointly tried Yu Chang, hoping to take this opportunity to force Su Wu to surrender.
After killing Yu Chang with a sword, Wei Lu said: Zhang Sheng, the envoy of the Han Dynasty, murdered the ministers close to Shanyu, and his crime should be executed. However, Shanyu recruited surrendered people and pardoned his crime.
He raised his sword to kill Zhang Sheng, but Zhang Sheng asked for surrender.
Wei Lu then said to Su Wu: The deputy envoy is guilty and you should sit with him.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
武曰： 本无谋，又非亲属，何谓相坐？
复举剑拟之，武不动。
律曰： 苏君，律前负汉归匈奴，幸蒙大恩，赐号称王，拥众数万，马畜弥山，富贵如此。
苏君今日降，明日复然。
空以身膏草野，谁复知之！
武不应。
律曰： 君因我降，与君为兄弟，今不听吾计，后虽欲复见我，尚可得乎？
武骂律曰： 女为人臣子，不顾恩义，畔主背亲，为降虏于蛮夷，何以女为见？
且单于信女，使决人死生，不平心持正，反欲斗两主，观祸败。
南越杀汉使者，屠为九郡；宛王杀汉使者，头县北阙；朝鲜杀汉使者，即时诛灭。
独匈奴未耳。
若知我不降明，欲令两国相攻，匈奴之祸从我始矣。
translation: 
Su Wu said: I didn't participate in the conspiracy, and I'm not his relative. Why should I join him?
Wei Lu gestured with his sword to stab Su Wu, but Su Wu did not waver.
Wei Lu said: Mr. Su, I, Wei Lu, betrayed the Han Dynasty and surrendered to the Xiongnu. Fortunately, thanks to the kindness of Shan Zi, I was given the title of king, so that I have tens of thousands of followers, horses and livestock all over the mountain, and I am so rich.
If you surrender today, you will do the same tomorrow.
Otherwise, you will be killed and buried in the wilderness in vain. Who knows that you died for the Han Dynasty?
Su Wu ignored it.
Wei Lu said again: If you surrender with the help of me, I will become your brother. If you don't listen to me today, will you still want to see me again in the future?
Su Wu scolded Wei Lu and said: As a subject of the Han Dynasty, you betrayed the emperor and your relatives and surrendered to the barbarians, regardless of your kindness, justice and shame. Why should I see you?
Moreover, Shanyu trusted you and asked you to judge people's life and death, but you did not act out of public interest and uphold justice. Instead, you made the two leaders fight each other and watched the chaos caused by the melee between the two sides.
South Vietnam killed the Han envoys and was razed into nine counties of the Han Dynasty; King Dayuan killed the Han envoys, and his head was hung in the north palace of the Han Palace; North Korea killed the Han envoys and was immediately punished by having his head reduced.
Only the Huns did not have this happen.
You know that I will not surrender. If you want the two countries to attack each other, the Xiongnu's defeat will begin with killing me.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
律知武终不可胁，白单于。
单于愈益欲降之，乃幽武置大窖中，绝不饮食。
天雨雪，武卧啮雪与旃毛并咽之，数日不死。
匈奴以为神，乃徙武北海上无人处，使牧羝，羝乳乃得归。别其官属常惠等，各置他所。
武既至海上，廪食不至，掘野鼠去草实而食之。
杖汉节牧羊，卧起操持，节旄尽落。
积五、六年，单于弟於靬王弋射海上。武能网纺缴，檠弓弩，於靬王爱之，给其衣食。
三岁余，王病，赐武马畜、服匿、穹庐。
王死后，人众徙去。
其冬，丁令盗武牛羊，武复穷厄。
初，武与李陵俱为侍中，武使匈奴明年，陵降，不敢求武。
久之，单于使陵至海上，为武置酒设乐，因谓武曰： 单于闻陵与子卿素厚，故使陵来说足下，虚心欲相待。
终不得归汉，空自苦亡人之地，信义安所见乎？
前长君为奉车，从至雍棫阳宫，扶辇下除，触柱折辕，劾大不敬，伏剑自刎，赐钱二百万以葬。
孺卿从祠河东后土，宦骑与黄门驸马争船，推堕驸马河中溺死，宦骑亡，诏使孺卿逐捕不得，惶恐饮药而死。
来时，大夫人已不幸，陵送葬至阳陵。
translation: 
Wei Lu knew that he could not threaten Su Wu to surrender in the end, so he reported the situation to Shan Yu.
The Chanyu wanted Su Wu to surrender more and more, so he imprisoned him in Dajiaoxiang and cut off food and drink from him.
It snowed heavily, so Su Wu lay down on the ground and ate snow balls and felt wool, so that many of them did not starve to death.
The Xiongnu thought he was a man of God, so they moved him to an uninhabited place in the North Sea and let him herd rams. He was not allowed to come back until the rams gave birth to babies. They separated him from his subordinates Chang Hui and others and placed him in different places.
After Su Wu was exiled to Beihai, the Huns did not provide him with food, so he had to dig grass seeds stored by wild rats to satisfy his hunger.
He used Han Chao Jie to shepherd sheep and carried Han Chao Jie with him all the time, so that the shackles on the Han Chao Jie fell off.
Five or six years later, Shan Yu's younger brother, King Yu Xuan, went to the sea to hunt. Because Su Wu knew how to make hunting nets and arrows, and calibrate bows and crossbows, King Yu Xuan liked him very much and gave him clothes and food.
More than three years later, King Yu Xuan fell ill, so he presented Su Wu with livestock, wine and cheese utensils, and felt tents.
After King Yu Xuan died, his followers also left.
That winter, Ding Ren stole Su Wu's cattle and sheep, and Su Wu was once again in trouble.
At first, Su Wu and Li Ling were serving as ministers in the Han Dynasty. In the second year after Su Wu went to the Huns as an envoy, Li Ling surrendered to the Huns and did not dare to see Su Wu.
After a long time, the Chanyu sent Li Ling to the sea to hold a banquet for Su Wu, with music and dancing. He took the opportunity to say to Su Wu: The Chanyu heard that I have a close relationship with you, so he sent me to persuade you. The Chanyu will treat you sincerely.
After all, you can't go back to the Han Dynasty and suffer in vain in this no-man's land. Who can see your faith?
Once upon a time, your brother Su Jiaren was the captain of the Fengcha. He accompanied the emperor to the Jiuyang Palace in Yongcheng. He helped the chariot down the steps of the palace, but the chariot hit a pillar and broke the shaft. He was impeached for lese majeste and committed suicide with his sword. The emperor gave him two million yuan for burial expenses.
Your brother Su Xian went with the emperor to worship the god in Hedong County. The eunuch and Huangmen's consort were fighting for a boat. The consort was pushed into the river and drowned. The eunuch escaped. The emperor ordered Su Xian to hunt down the eunuch, but failed to catch him. Su Xian was worried and frightened, so he committed suicide by drinking medicine.
When I led the troops to leave Chang'an, your mother unfortunately passed away, and I sent her to Yangling for burial.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
子卿妇年少，闻已更嫁矣。
独有女弟二人，两女一男，今复十余年，存亡不可知。
人生如朝露，何久自苦如此！
陵始降时，忽忽如狂，自痛负汉，加以老母系保宫，子卿不欲降，何以过陵？
且陛下春秋高，法令亡常，大臣亡罪夷灭者数十家，安危不可知，子卿尚复谁为乎？
愿听陵计，勿复有云。
武曰： 武父子亡功德，皆为陛下所成就，位列将，爵通侯，兄弟亲近，常愿肝脑涂地。
今得杀身自效，虽蒙斧钺汤镬，诚甘乐之。
臣事君，犹子事父也。子为父死亡所恨。
愿勿复再言。
陵与武饮数日，复曰： 子卿壹听陵言。
武曰： 自分已死久矣！ 王必欲降武，请毕今日之欢，效死于前！
陵见其至诚，喟然叹曰： 嗟乎，义士！
陵与卫律之罪上通于天。
因泣下沾衿，与武决去。
translation: 
Your wife is young and I heard she has remarried.
There are only two sisters, two daughters and one son left. It has been more than ten years now, and I don’t know whether they are dead or alive.
Life is as short as morning dew, why torture yourself for so long!
When I began to surrender, I was in a trance, as crazy as I was, and felt sad for betraying the Han Dynasty. In addition, my old mother was imprisoned in Baogong. How could you be more reluctant to surrender than me?
Moreover, the emperor is old, the laws are inconsistent, dozens of ministers have been punished for their crimes, and the safety is unpredictable, who else are you going to keep?
I hope you will follow my advice and say nothing.
Su Wu said: We, father and son, have neither merit nor virtue. We were promoted to the rank of general and to the rank of Tonghou because of the emperor's promotion. The three brothers are all close ministers of the emperor, and they are often willing to do nothing for it.
Now, if I can sacrifice myself and serve the country, I will be willing to do so even if I am punished with ax and cymbal or soup and wok.
A minister serves the monarch as a son serves his father, and a son dies for his father without any resentment.
I hope you won't say any more.
After having a banquet with Su Wu for several days, Li Ling advised Su Wu: You must listen to me.
Su Wu said: I have long been willing to die. You must make me surrender. Please end today's feast and let me die in front of you!
Seeing how loyal he was to the Han Dynasty, Li Ling sighed and said, "Oh, what a righteous man!"
Wei Lu and I’s sins are higher than the sky!
Then tears fell like rain, soaking his clothes, and he said goodbye to Su Wu and left.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
陵恶自赐武，使其妻赐武牛羊数十头。
后陵复至北海上，语武： 区脱捕得云中生口，言太守以下吏民皆白服，曰上崩。
武闻之，南乡号哭，欧血，旦夕临数月。
昭帝即位数年，匈奴与汉和亲。
汉求武等，匈奴诡言武死。
后汉使复至匈奴，常惠请其守者与俱，得夜见汉使。具自陈过。教使者谓单于，言天子射上林中，得雁，足有系帛书，言武等在荒泽中。
使者大喜，如惠语以让单于。
单于视左右而惊，谢汉使曰： 武等实在。
于是李陵置酒贺武曰： 今足下还归，扬名于匈奴，功显于汉室，虽古竹帛所载，丹青所画，何以过子卿！
陵虽驽怯，令汉且贳陵罪，全其老母，使得奋大辱之积志，庶几乎曹柯之盟，此陵宿昔之所不忘也。
收族陵家，为世大戮，陵尚复何顾乎？
已矣！
令子卿知吾心耳。
异域之人，壹别长绝！
陵起舞，歌曰： 径万里兮度沙幕，为君将兮奋匈奴。
路穷绝兮矢刃摧，士众灭兮名已隤。老母已死，虽欲报恩将安归！
陵泣下数行，因与武决。
translation: 
Li Ling was too shy to give Su Wu his belongings in person, so he sent his wife to send some cattle and sheep to Su Wu.
Later, Li Ling went to Beihai and told Su Wu: The Xiongnu frontier post captured Han Chinese in Yunzhong alive, saying that everyone from the prefect to the common people were wearing white mourning clothes, and that the emperor was dead.
When Su Wu heard the news, he faced the south and cried so hard that he vomited blood. He cried in mourning for Emperor Wu every morning and night. A few months later, Emperor Zhao ascended the throne.
After a few years, the Xiongnu and the Han Dynasty reconciled.
The Han Dynasty sought Su Wu and others, but the Huns falsely claimed that Su Wu was dead.
Later, the Mo envoy came to the Xiongnu again. Chang Hui asked his guard to go with him to see the Mo envoy at night. He described what happened in detail. He also told the Han envoy to tell Shanyu that the Han emperor was hunting in Shanglin Garden and shot down a wild goose. There was a silk letter tied to his foot, saying that Su Wu was in a certain big swamp.
The Han envoy was very happy and asked the Chanyu as Chang Hui said.
Chanyu looked around, secretly surprised, and had to apologize to the Han envoy and said: Su Wu is indeed alive.
At this time, Li Ling held a banquet to celebrate Su Wu and said: "When you go back today, your reputation will be praised by the Xiongnu and your achievements will be made famous by the Han Dynasty. Even if it is recorded in ancient history books and depicted in pictures, who can be better than you!"
Although I, Li Ling, am incompetent and cowardly, if the Han Dynasty temporarily forgives my sins and protects my old mother, so that I can display my long-cherished ambition due to the humiliation of surrendering to the Huns, I may be able to find opportunities to make atonement like Cao Mo did. This is something I have never forgotten.
The emperor arrested and killed my whole family. This is the greatest insult in the world. What else can I miss?
Forget it!
I'm just letting you know how I feel.
You and I are in different countries, and we will never see each other again after this separation!
Li Ling stood up, danced, and sang: Galloping thousands of miles across the desert, leading troops for the emperor to fight against the Huns.
Trapped in a narrow ravine, all my arrows were cut off, my soldiers died in battle, my reputation was ruined. My mother is dead, even if I want to repay my kindness, where can I go?
Li Ling communicated with tears and said goodbye to Su Wu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
单于召会武官属，前以降及物故，凡随武还者九人。
武以始元六年春至京师。
诏武奉一太守谒武帝园庙，拜为典属国，秩中二千石，赐钱二百万，公田二顷，宅一区。
常惠、徐圣、赵终根皆拜为中郎，赐帛各二百匹。
其余六人老归家，赐钱人十万，复终身。
常惠后至右将军，封列侯，自有传。
武留匈奴凡十九岁，始以强壮出，及还，须发尽白。
武来归明年，上官桀、子安与桑弘羊及燕王、盖主谋反。
武子男元与安有谋，坐死。
初，桀、安与大将军霍光争权，数疏光过失予燕王，令上书告之。
translation: 
Chanyu summoned Su Wu's subordinates, excluding those who had surrendered and those who died, there were a total of nine people who returned with Su Wu.
Su Wu returned to the capital Chang'an in the spring of the sixth year of Emperor Zhao's reign.
Emperor Zhao ordered him to offer cattle, sheep, and hogs to Emperor Wu's mausoleum, and also granted him the title of vassal of the state, with an official rank of Zhongerganshi, and a reward of two million yuan, two hectares of public land, and a homestead.
Chang Hui, Xu Sheng, and Zhao Zhonggen were all awarded the position of Zhonglang, and each received a reward of 200 pieces of silk.
The remaining six returned home in old age, and each received a reward of one hundred thousand coins and was exempted from lifelong corvee service.
Chang Hui later rose to the rank of General You, and was granted the title of Marquis. There is a biography of him in the "Book of Han".
Su Wu was detained by the Xiongnu for nineteen years. He was in the prime of life when he went on the mission, but when he returned, his beard and hair were all white.
In the second year after Su Wu returned, Shangguan Jie's son Shangguan An conspired with Sang Hongyang, King Yan and Lord Gai to rebel.
Su Wu's son Su Yuan conspired with Shangguan An and was killed for the crime.
At first, Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An fought for power with the general Huo Guang. They recorded Huo Guang's faults item by item many times and sent them to King Yan, who asked him to write to Emperor Zhao to report Huo Guang.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
又言苏武使匈奴二十年不降，还乃为典属国，大将军长史无功劳，为搜粟都尉，光颛权自恣。
及燕王等反诛，穷治党与，武素与桀、弘羊有旧，数为燕王所讼，子又在谋中，廷尉奏请逮捕武。
霍光寝其奏，免武官。
数年，昭帝崩，武以故二千石与计谋立宣帝，赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
久之，卫将军张安世荐武明习故事，奉使不辱命，先帝以为遗言。
宣帝即时召武待诏宦者署，数进见，复为右曹典属国。
以武著节老臣，命朝朔望，号称祭酒，甚优宠之。
武所得赏赐，尽以施予昆弟故人，家不余财。
translation: 
He also threatened that Su Wu was only granted the title of Dianguo after returning from a mission to the Xiongnu for twenty years without surrendering. Huo Guang's chief historian, Yang Chang, had no merit but was appointed as the captain of Sosu. Huo Guang had exclusive power and acted arbitrarily.
When the king of Yan and others were killed for treason, they searched for those who were accomplices. Su Wu had always been friends with Shangguan Jie and Sang Hongyang. The King of Yan had complained to the emperor many times about Su Wu's meritorious service to the country. Su Wu's son also participated in the rebellion, so the imperial officer petitioned to arrest Su Wu.
Huo Guang suppressed this memorial and only relieved Su Wu from his official position.
A few years later, Emperor Zhao died. Su Wu was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and the food of 300 households because he had participated in the courtiers' plan to welcome Emperor Xuan as the winner of two thousand stones.
After a long time, General Wei Zhang Anshi recommended Su Wu to be familiar with the laws and regulations of the past, and to fulfill his mission when he was ordered to go on missions. Emperor Zhao often mentioned this during his lifetime.
Emperor Xuan immediately summoned Su Wu to wait for orders in the eunuch's office. Su Wu visited Emperor Xuan many times and appointed You Cao Dian as a vassal of the country.
Because Su Wu was a veteran minister who was famous for his integrity, Emperor Xuan ordered him to enter the court on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month and give him the title of "sacrificial wine". He was very graceful and favored him.
All the rewards and gifts Su Wu received were given to his brothers and old friends, and no property was accumulated at home.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
皇后父平恩侯、帝舅平昌侯、乐昌侯、车骑将军韩增、丞相魏相、御史大夫丙吉皆敬重武。
武年老，子前坐事死，上闵之，问左右： 武在匈奴久，岂有子乎？
武因平恩侯自白： 前发匈奴时，胡妇适产一子通国，有声问来，愿因使者致金帛赎之。
上许焉。
后通国随使者至，上以为郎。
又以武弟子为右曹。
武年八十余，神爵二年病卒。
甘露三年，单于始入朝。
上思股肱之美，乃图画其人于麒麟阁，法其形貌，署其官爵、姓名。唯霍光不名，曰大司马大将军博陆侯姓霍氏，次曰卫将军富平侯张安世，次曰车骑将军龙额侯韩增，次曰后将军营平侯赵充国，次曰丞相高平侯魏相，次曰丞相博阳侯丙吉，次曰御史大夫建平侯杜延年，次曰宗正阳城侯刘德，次曰少府梁丘贺，次曰太子太傅萧望之，次曰典属国苏武。
皆有功德，知名当世，是以表而扬之，明著中兴辅佐，列于方叔、召虎、仲山甫焉。
凡十一人，皆有传。
自丞相黄霸、廷尉于定国、大司农朱邑、京兆尹张敞、右扶风尹翁归及儒者夏侯胜等，皆以善终，著名宣帝之世，然不得列于名臣之图，以此知其选矣。
translation: 
The queen's father, Ping'enhou Xu Bo, Emperor Xuan's uncle, Changhou Wang Wuyou and Leluhou Wangwu, the chariot general Han Zeng, the prime minister Wei Xiang, and the imperial censor Bingji all respected Su Wu.
Su Wu was old, and his son Su Yuan committed a crime and was killed. Emperor Xuan felt pity for him and asked his ministers: "Su Wu has been in the Huns for so long. Didn't he have any children?"
Su Wu stated to Emperor Xuan through Marquis Ping'en: When I returned from the Huns, my Huns wife happened to give birth to a son named Su Tongguo. There happened to be news that I could redeem him with property through the messenger.
Emperor Xuan agreed.
Later, Su Tongguo came back with the envoy, and Emperor Xuan appointed him as Lang.
He also appointed Su Wu's nephew as Youcao.
Su Wu was in his eighties and died of illness in the second year of Emperor Xuan's reign.
In the third year of Emperor Xuan's reign, Chanyu began to enter the fortress to pay homage to the Han emperor.
Emperor Xuan missed the virtues of the ministers who assisted him, so he had their physical appearance painted on the Qilin Pavilion, and marked their respective official positions, titles and names. Only Huo Guang did not note their names to show his respect, and they were called the Great Sima, the Great General, the Marquis of Bolu, and the Huo family. The following are: : General Wei Fupinghou Zhang Anshi, Chariot General Long'ehou Han Zeng, Houjun Yingpinghou Zhao Chongguo, Prime Minister Gaopinghou Wei Xiang, Prime Minister Boyang Hou Bingji, Yu Shi Dafu Jianping Hou Du Yannian, Zong Zhengyangcheng Hou Liu De, Shaofu Liang Qiuhe, Prince Taifu Dong Wangzhi, Dian Guo Su Wu.
These people were well-known to the world for their outstanding achievements and noble moral character. Therefore, famous officials were painted to commend them, clearly indicating that they were the assistant ministers of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty Zhongxing, comparable to the famous ministers Fang Shu, Zhao Hu and Zhongshanfu who assisted King Xuan of Zhou Zhongxing.
There are eleven people in total, each of whom has a biography in "Hanshu".
From Prime Minister Huang Ba, Tingwei Yu Dingguo, Da Sinong Zhuyi, Jingzhao Yin Zhangchang, You Fufeng Yin Wenggui to the famous scholar Xia Housheng, etc., they all started well and ended well, and became famous in the reign of Emperor Xuan, but they were not listed in the map of famous ministers. From this, we can know the selection criteria of assistant ministers.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
赞曰：李将军恂恂如鄙人，口不能出辞，及死之日，天下知与不知皆为流涕，彼其中心诚信于士大夫也。
谚曰： 桃李不言，下自成蹊。
此言虽小，可以喻大。
然三代之将，道家所忌，自广至陵，遂亡其宗，哀哉！
孔子称 志士仁人，有杀身以成仁，无求生以害仁 ， 使于四方，不辱君命 ，苏武有之矣。
translation: 
Praise said: General Li was as honest as a vulgar person, and he was not good at words. On the day of his death, everyone in the world, both those who knew him and those who did not know him, shed tears for him, which shows that he was loyal and honest to the scholar-bureaucrats.
The proverb says: The peach tree does not attract people, but because it has flowers and fruits, people walk around underneath it and unknowingly walk out of a path underneath.
Although this is a small matter, it can also be said to be a big deal.
However, the generals of the third generation of the Li family were taboo to Taoists. From Li Guang to Li Ling, the clan members were exterminated. How sad!
Confucius said that a man with lofty ideals and benevolence should sacrifice his life to achieve benevolence, and do not seek to survive in order to harm benevolence. He can serve in all directions and do not disgrace the king's orders. These moral standards of life are all reflected in Su Wu.


