Chunk 0: 
original: 
孙子武者，齐人也。
以兵法见於吴王阖庐。
阖庐曰： 子之十三篇，吾尽观之矣，可以小试勒兵乎？
对曰： 可。
阖庐曰： 可试以妇人乎？
曰： 可。
於是许之，出宫中美女，得百八十人。
孙子分为二队，以王之宠姬二人各为队长，皆令持戟。
令之曰： 汝知而心与左右手背乎？
妇人曰： 知之。
孙子曰： 前，则视心；左，视左手；右，视右手；後，即视背。 妇人曰： 诺。
约束既布，乃设鈇钺，即三令五申之。
於是鼓之右，妇人大笑。
孙子曰： 约束不明，申令不熟，将之罪也。
复三令五申而鼓之左，妇人复大笑。
孙子曰： 约束不明，申令不熟，将之罪也；既已明而不如法者，吏士之罪也。
乃欲斩左右队长。
吴王从台上观，见且斩爱姬，大骇。
趣使使下令曰： 寡人已知将军能用兵矣。寡人非此二姬，食不甘味，原勿斩也。
孙子曰： 臣既已受命为将，将在军，君命有所不受。
遂斩队长二人以徇。
用其次为队长，於是复鼓之。妇人左右前後跪起皆中规矩绳墨，无敢出声。
於是孙子使使报王曰： 兵既整齐，王可试下观之，唯王所欲用之，虽赴水火犹可也。
吴王曰： 将军罢休就舍，寡人不原下观。
孙子曰： 王徒好其言，不能用其实。
於是阖庐知孙子能用兵，卒以为将。
西破强楚，入郢，北威齐晋，显名诸侯，孙子与有力焉。
孙武既死，後百馀岁有孙膑。
translation: 
Sun Tzu, named Wu, was from the state of Qi.
Because he was proficient in the art of war, he was received by King Wu in his house.
Helu said: I have read all thirteen of your military books. Can you use them to try to command the army on a small scale?
Sun Tzu replied: Yes.
Helu said: Can it be tested on women?
Answer: Yes.
So Helu agreed to his experiment and called out the beauties in the palace, a total of about one hundred and eighty people.
Sun Tzu divided them into two teams, and asked King Wu's two most beloved concubines to serve as captains of each team respectively. He also asked all the beauties to hold a halberd.
Then he commanded them: Do you know your heart, your left and right hands, and your back?
The women replied: Yes.
Sun Tzu said: When I say forward, you look in the direction your heart is facing; when I say left, you look in the direction your left hand is facing; when I say right, you look in the direction your right hand is facing; when I say backward, you look in the direction your back is facing. The women replied: Yes.
After the order was announced, the axes and other instruments of torture were set up, and the order that had been announced was clearly explained many times.
He beat the drums and gave orders, telling them to turn to the right, and the women all laughed.
Sun Tzu said: It is the general's fault that discipline is unclear and orders are unfamiliar.
He explained it clearly several times, and then beat the drums and ordered them to turn to the left. The women all laughed again.
Sun Tzu said: It is the fault of the general if he does not understand the discipline and is unfamiliar with the orders; now it is the fault of the officers and soldiers if he does not follow the orders even though he has given them clearly.
So we have to kill the captains of the left and right teams.
King Wu was watching from the stage and was shocked to see that his grandson was about to kill his concubine.
He hurriedly sent an envoy to convey the order and said: I already know that the general is good at using troops. If I don't have these two concubines, my food will not taste sweet. I hope you won't kill them.
Sun Tzu replied: I have accepted the order as a general, and the general is in the army. It is not necessary to accept some orders from the king.
So he killed two captains in public.
Then the second person from the two teams was appointed as the captain in order, and then the drums were beaten to give orders. Whether the women moved left or right, forward or backward, kneeled or stood up, they all complied with the orders and discipline requirements. No one dared to speak out.
So Sun Tzu sent an envoy to report to the King of Wu: The team has been drilled in order. Your Majesty, you can come down and inspect their drills. You can use them however you want, even if you ask them to go through fire and water.
King Wu replied: Let the general stop the drill and go back to the hotel to rest. I don't want to go down and take a look.
Sun Tzu sighed and said: Your Majesty only appreciates my military theory, but cannot let me put it into practice.
From then on, King Wu Helu knew that Sun Tzu was really good at using troops, and finally appointed him as a general.
Later, Wu State defeated the powerful Chu State in the west, conquered the capital of Ying, and shocked Qi and Jin in the north. It became famous among the princes and countries. During this period, Sun Tzu not only participated, but also contributed a lot.
After the death of the grandson, another Sun Bin appeared after more than a hundred years.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
膑生阿鄄之间，膑亦孙武之後世子孙也。
孙膑尝与庞涓俱学兵法。
庞涓既事魏，得为惠王将军，而自以为能不及孙膑，乃阴使召孙膑。
膑至，庞涓恐其贤於己，疾之，则以法刑断其两足而黥之，欲隐勿见。
齐使者如梁，孙膑以刑徒阴见，说齐使。
齐使以为奇，窃载与之齐。
齐将田忌善而客待之。
忌数与齐诸公子驰逐重射。
孙子见其马足不甚相远，马有上、中、下、辈。
於是孙子谓田忌曰： 君弟重射，臣能令君胜。
田忌信然之，与王及诸公子逐射千金。
及临质，孙子曰： 今以君之下驷与彼上驷，取君上驷与彼中驷，取君中驷与彼下驷。
既驰三辈毕，而田忌一不胜而再胜，卒得王千金。
於是忌进孙子於威王。
威王问兵法，遂以为师。
其後魏伐赵，赵急，请救於齐。
齐威王欲将孙膑，膑辞谢曰： 刑馀之人不可。
於是乃以田忌为将，而孙子为师，居辎车中，坐为计谋。
田忌欲引兵之赵，孙子曰： 夫解杂乱纷纠者不控卷，救斗者不搏撠，批亢捣虚，形格势禁，则自为解耳。
今梁赵相攻，轻兵锐卒必竭於外，老弱罢於内。
君不若引兵疾走大梁，据其街路，旻其方虚，彼必释赵而自救。
是我一举解赵之围而收弊於魏也。
田忌从之，魏果去邯郸，与齐战於桂陵，大破梁军。
後十三岁，魏与赵攻韩，韩告急於齐。
齐使田忌将而往，直走大梁。
魏将庞涓闻之，去韩而归，齐军既已过而西矣。
孙子谓田忌曰： 彼三晋之兵素悍勇而轻齐，齐号为怯，善战者因其势而利导之。
translation: 
Sun Bin was born in Acheng and Juancheng, and he was also a descendant of Sun Wu.
He once studied the art of war with Pang Juan.
After Pang Juan served the Wei State, he became a general of King Wei Hui, but he knew that his talents were not as good as Sun Bin. So he secretly found Sun Bin.
When Sun Bin arrived, Pang Juan was afraid that he was more talented than himself and hated him, so he cut off his feet on the pretext of being guilty and tattooed his face, hoping that he would hide him and not dare to show his face.
The envoy of Qi State came to Daliang, and Sun Bin secretly met with the envoy of Qi as a prisoner to lobby.
The envoys of Qi State thought that he was a rare talent, so they secretly drove him back to Qi State.
General Qi Tian Ji not only appreciated him but also treated him like a guest.
Tian Ji often raced horses with the nobles of Qi State and placed huge bets.
Sun Bin found that their horses had almost the same foot power and could be divided into three grades: upper, middle and lower.
So Sun Bin said to Tian Ji: Just place a big bet and I can make you win.
Tian Ji believed this and placed thousands of gold bets in a competition with the King of Qi and the nobles.
When the game came, Sun Bin said to Tian Ji: Now use your low-grade horses against their high-grade horses, your high-grade horses against their medium-grade horses, and your medium-grade horses against their low-grade horses.
After three games, Tian Ji lost once and won twice, and finally won the Qi King's daughter's bet.
So Tian Ji recommended his grandson to King Wei of Qi.
After King Wei asked him about the art of war, he regarded him as his teacher.
Later, Wei State attacked Zhao State. Zhao State was in a critical situation and asked Qi State for help.
King Qi Wei planned to appoint Sun Bin as a general, but Sun Bin declined and said: "A person who has been tortured cannot be a general."
So he appointed Tian Ji as the commander-in-chief and Sun Bin as the military adviser. They sat in a car with a tent and planned secretly.
Tian Ji wanted to lead the reinforcements to Zhao, but Sun Bin said: Those who want to untie the tangled threads should not clench their fists and pull forcefully; those who are rescuing a fight should not get involved in random fights. To seize the vital points of the combatants, the combatants have to untie themselves due to the constraints of the situation.
Now that Wei and Zhao are attacking each other, Liang's elite troops will be exhausted abroad, and the old, weak and remnant troops will be exhausted at home.
You might as well lead the army to advance towards Daliang quickly, occupy its main transportation routes, and attack its empty areas. Wei will definitely abandon Zhao and return to save itself.
In this way, we saved the siege of Zhao State in one fell swoop, and at the same time reaped the effects of Wei State's own defeat.
Tian Ji listened to Sun Bin's advice. Sure enough, the Wei army left Handan and returned to the army. They fought in Guiling and were severely defeated.
Thirteen years later, Wei and Zhao jointly attacked South Korea, and South Korea asked Qi for help.
The King of Qi sent Tian Ji to lead the army to rescue and marched directly to Daliang.
Wei general Pang Juan heard the news and led his troops to withdraw from South Korea and return to Wei. However, the Qi army had already crossed the border and advanced westward.
Sun Bin said to Tian Ji: The Wei army has always been fierce and brave, but looks down on the Qi soldiers. The Qi soldiers are called timid and cowardly. Generals who are good at commanding battles must follow this trend and guide them.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
兵法，百里而趣利者蹶上将，五十里而趣利者军半至。
使齐军入魏地为十万灶，明日为五万灶，又明日为三万灶。
庞涓行三日，大喜，曰： 我固知齐军怯，入吾地三日，士卒亡者过半矣。
乃弃其步军，与其轻锐倍日并行逐之。
孙子度其行，暮当至马陵。
马陵道陕，而旁多阻隘，可伏兵，乃斫大树白而书之曰 庞涓死于此树之下 。
於是令齐军善射者万弩，夹道而伏，期曰 暮见火举而俱发 。
庞涓果夜至斫木下，见白书，乃钻火烛之。读其书未毕，齐军万弩俱发，魏军大乱相失。
庞涓自知智穷兵败，乃自刭，曰： 遂成竖子之名！
齐因乘胜尽破其军，虏魏太子申以归。
孙膑以此名显天下，世传其兵法。
吴起者，卫人也，好用兵。
尝学於曾子，事鲁君。
齐人攻鲁，鲁欲将吴起，吴起取齐女为妻，而鲁疑之。
吴起於是欲就名，遂杀其妻，以明不与齐也。
鲁卒以为将。将而攻齐，大破之。
鲁人或恶吴起曰： 起之为人，猜忍人也。
其少时，家累千金，游仕不遂，遂破其家，乡党笑之，吴起杀其谤己者三十馀人，而东出卫郭门。
与其母诀，齧臂而盟曰： 起不为卿相，不复入卫。
遂事曾子。
居顷之，其母死，起终不归。
曾子薄之，而与起绝。
起乃之鲁，学兵法以事鲁君。
鲁君疑之，起杀妻以求将。
夫鲁小国，而有战胜之名，则诸侯图鲁矣。
translation: 
The Art of War says: If you use a hasty march of a hundred miles to compete with the enemy for gain, you may lose the general; if you use a hasty march of fifty miles to compete with the enemy for gain, half of your soldiers may be left behind.
Order the army to enter the Wei territory and build stoves for 100,000 people to cook first, the next day to build stoves for 50,000 people to cook, and the third day to build stoves for 30,000 people to cook.
Pang Juan marched for three days and said very happily: I knew that the Qi army was timid and cowardly. It had only been three days since they entered our country, and more than half of them deserted!
So he abandoned his infantry and pursued the Qi army day and night with only his lightly armed and elite troops.
Sun Bin estimated that according to his schedule, he could reach Maling that night.
The road in Maling is narrow and there are many steep passes and obstacles on both sides, which is suitable for ambushing the army. Sun Bin asked people to cut off the bark of the tree, revealing the white wood, and wrote: Pang Juan died under this tree.
So he ordered 10,000 soldiers who were good at archery to hide on both sides of Maling Road. They agreed that if they saw the firelight under the trees at night, they would fire all 10,000 arrows.
Sure enough, Pang Juan rushed to the big tree with the bark cut off that night. When he saw the writing on the white wood, he lit a fire and illuminated the writing on the tree trunk. Before he could finish reading the writing, the Qi army ambushed and fired thousands of arrows. The Wei army was in chaos and could not respond to each other.
Pang Juan knew that there was nothing he could do and defeat was inevitable, so he drew his sword and killed himself. Before he died, he said: "It has made this boy famous!"
The Qi army took advantage of the victory to pursue it, completely defeated the Wei army, and captured Wei Crown Prince Shen back to the country.
Sun Bin also became famous all over the world, and his "Art of War" was circulated in later generations.
Wu Qi was a native of Wei and was good at using troops.
He once studied with Zengzi and served the king of Lu.
The army of Qi State attacked Lu State. Lu Jun wanted to appoint Wu Qi as a general. However, Wu Qi's wife was from Qi State, so Lu Jun was suspicious of him.
At that time, Wu Qi wanted to become famous, so he killed his wife to show that he was not close to Qi.
Lu Jun finally appointed him as a general, led the army to attack Qi, and defeated the Qi army.
Some people in the State of Lu slandered Wu Qi and said: Wu Qi is a suspicious and cruel man.
When he was young, his family had a thousand gold in savings. He went out to seek official positions in vain and squandered all his family property. People in his hometown and neighbors laughed at him, so he killed more than thirty people who laughed at him. Then he escaped from the east gate of Weiguo.
When he said goodbye to his mother, he bit his arm and said harshly: "I, Wu Qi, will never return to Weiguo unless I become prime minister."
So he worshiped Zengzi as his teacher.
Soon, his mother died, and Wu Qi did not go back to attend the funeral.
Zengzi looked down upon him and severed the relationship between master and disciple.
Wu Qi went to the state of Lu to learn the art of war and serve the king of Lu.
Lu Jun suspected him, so Wu Qi killed his wife to express his intentions and use it to seek the position of general.
Although the State of Lu is a small country, it has the reputation of being a victorious country, so the princes and other countries will plot against the State of Lu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
且鲁卫兄弟之国也，而君用起，则是弃卫。
鲁君疑之，谢吴起。
吴起於是闻魏文侯贤，欲事之。
文侯问李克曰： 吴起何如人哉？
李克曰： 起贪而好色，然用兵司马穰苴不能过也。
於是魏文候以为将，击秦，拔五城。
起之为将，与士卒最下者同衣食。卧不设席，行不骑乘，亲裹赢粮，与士卒分劳苦。
卒有病疽者，起为吮之。
卒母闻而哭之。
人曰： 子卒也，而将军自吮其疽，何哭为？
母曰： 非然也。往年吴公吮其父，其父战不旋踵，遂死於敌。
吴公今又吮其子，妾不知其死所矣。是以哭之。
文侯以吴起善用兵，廉平，尽能得士心，乃以为西河守，以拒秦、韩。
魏文侯既卒，起事其子武侯。
武侯浮西河而下，中流，顾而谓吴起曰： 美哉乎山河之固，此魏国之宝也！
起对曰： 在德不在险。
昔三苗氏左洞庭，右彭蠡，德义不修，禹灭之。
夏桀之居，左河济，右泰华，伊阙在其南，羊肠在其北，修政不仁，汤放之。
殷纣之国，左孟门，右太行，常山在其北，大河经其南，修政不德，武王杀之。
由此观之，在德不在险。
若君不修德，舟中之人尽为敌国也。 武侯曰： 善。
吴起为西河守，甚有声名。
魏置相，相田文。
吴起不悦，谓田文曰： 请与子论功，可乎？
田文曰： 可。
起曰： 将三军，使士卒乐死，敌国不敢谋，子孰与起？
文曰： 不如子。
起曰： 治百官，亲万民，实府库，子孰与起？
文曰： 不如子。
起曰： 守西河而秦兵不敢东乡，韩赵宾从，子孰与起？
文曰： 不如子。
起曰： 此三者，子皆出吾下，而位加吾上，何也？
文曰： 主少国疑，大臣未附，百姓不信，方是之时，属之於子乎？
属之於我乎？ 起默然良久，曰： 属之子矣。
文曰： 此乃吾所以居子之上也。
吴起乃自知弗如田文。
田文既死，公叔为相，尚魏公主，而害吴起。
公叔之仆曰： 起易去也。
公叔曰： 柰何？
其仆曰： 吴起为人节廉而自喜名也。
君因先与武侯言曰： 夫吴起贤人也，而侯之国小，又与彊秦壤界，臣窃恐起之无留心也。
武侯即曰： 柰何？
君因谓武侯曰： 试延以公主，起有留心则必受之。无留心则必辞矣。
以此卜之。
君因召吴起而与归，即令公主怒而轻君。吴起见公主之贱君也，则必辞。
於是吴起见公主之贱魏相，果辞魏武侯。
武侯疑之而弗信也。
吴起惧得罪，遂去，即之楚。
楚悼王素闻起贤，至则相楚。
translation: 
Moreover, the State of Lu and the State of Wei are fraternal countries. If Lord Lu re-employs Wu Qi, it would be equivalent to abandoning the State of Wei.
Lu Jun suspected Wu Qi and alienated Wu Qi.
At this time, Wu Qi heard that Wei Guowen was a wise man and wanted to serve him.
Marquis Wen asked Li Ke: "What is Wu Qi like?"
Li Ke replied: Wu Qi is greedy for fame and loves women. However, when it comes to leading troops in war, even Sima Ranju cannot surpass him.
So Wei Wenhou appointed him as the chief general, attacked Qin and captured five cities.
Wu Qi acted as the commander-in-chief, wearing the same clothes as the lowest soldiers, eating the same food, sleeping without mattresses, marching without riding horses, and personally carrying the bundled grain on his back and sharing the joys and sorrows with the soldiers.
A soldier had a malignant sore, and Wu Qi sucked the liquid for him.
When the soldier's mother heard about it, she burst into tears.
Some people say: Your son is a nobody, but the general sucks his juice for him. Why are you still crying?
The mother replied: "That's not the case. In the past, General Wu sucked the sores for his father. His father marched bravely on the battlefield and died at the hands of the enemy."
Now General Wu sucked his son's sores again. I don't know when and where he will die, so I cry for him.
Marquis Wen of Wei appointed Wu Qi as the governor of the Xihe area to resist Qin and South Korea because Wu Qi was good at using soldiers, honest and fair, and could win the favor of all the soldiers.
After Wei Wenhou died, Wu Qi served his son Wei Wuhou.
Marquis Wu was boating down the Yellow River. Halfway through the boat, he turned back to Wu Qi and said, "The mountains and rivers are so dangerous and magnificent. This is the treasure of Wei!"
Wu Qi replied: The stability of state power lies in benevolence to the people, not in the dangerous geographical situation.
In the past, the Sanmiao clan bordered Dongting Lake on the left and Pengli Lake on the right. Because it did not practice virtue and was not trustworthy, Xia Yu was able to destroy it.
Xia Jie's territory borders the Yellow River and Jishui on the left, Mount Tai and Mount Hua on the right, Mount Yique to the south, and Yangchang Ban to the north. Because he did not implement benevolent governance, Shang Tang banished him.
Yin Zhou's territory had Mengmen Mountain on the left, Taihang Mountain on the right, Changshan Mountain to the north, and the Yellow River flowing to the south. Because he was not benevolent, King Wu killed him.
From this point of view, the stability of the political power lies in the kindness given to the people, not in the dangerous geographical situation.
If you don't show kindness, even people in the same boat will become your enemies! Wuhou replied: Well said.
Wu Qi became the guardian of Xihe and gained a high reputation.
The state of Wei set up a phase system and appointed Tian Wen as prime minister.
Wu Qi was very unhappy and said to Tian Wen: Please let me compare my merits with you, can you?
Tian Wen said: Yes.
Wu Qi said: "Command the three armies so that the soldiers are willing to fight to the death for the country and the enemy does not dare to plot against Wei. Who is better between you and me?"
Tian Wen said: Not as good as you.
Wu Qi said: "How can you and I manage the civil and military officials, keep the people attached to them, and enrich the treasury?"
Tian Wen said: Not as good as you.
Wu Qi said: If the Qin army refuses to defend the Xihe River and does not dare to invade the east, South Korea and Zhao will surrender. Who can compare with me?
Tian Wen said: Not as good as you.
Wu Qi said: You are inferior to me in these aspects, but your position is above mine. Why?
Tian Wen said: The king of Wei is still young, the people of the country are worried, the ministers are not friendly, and the people do not trust me. At this time, should I entrust the political affairs to you or to me?
Wu Qi was silent for a long time, and then said: "I should leave it to you."
Tian Wen said: This is why my position is higher than yours.
Only then did Wu Qi realize that he was inferior to Tian Wen in this aspect.
After Tian Wen's death, his uncle became the prime minister and married Wei Jun's daughter, but he was afraid of Wu Qi.
The uncle's servant said: "It is not difficult to drive Wu Qi away."
The uncle asked: What should I do?
The servant said: Wu Qi is a man of character and loves fame and prestige.
You can find an opportunity to say to Marquis Wu first: Wu Qi is a virtuous man, but your country is too small and borders the powerful Qin State. I am privately worried that Wu Qi has no plans to stay in Wei State for a long time.
Marquis Wu would say: What should we do?
You take the opportunity to say to Wu Hou: Please test him by marrying the princess. If Wu Qi has the intention to stay in Wei for a long time, he will definitely agree to marry the princess. If Wu Qi does not have the intention to stay in Wei for a long time, he will definitely refuse.
This method can be used to infer his will.
You find an opportunity to invite Wu Qi to go home with you, deliberately making the princess angry and despising you in person. Seeing that the princess despises you like this, Wu Qi will definitely not marry the princess.
At that time, Wu Qi saw how the princess despised the prime minister, so he politely declined the offer to Marquis Wu of Wei.
Marquis Wu doubted Wu Qi and no longer trusted him.
Wu Qi was afraid of causing disaster, so he left Wei and immediately went to Chu.
King Chu Mourning had always heard that Wu Qi was a capable person, so he appointed him as the prime minister as soon as he arrived in Chu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
明法审令，捐不急之官，废公族疏远者，以抚养战斗之士。
要在彊兵，破驰说之言从横者。
於是南平百越；北并陈蔡，卻三晋；西伐秦。
诸侯患楚之彊。
故楚之贵戚尽欲害吴起。
及悼王死，宗室大臣作乱而攻吴起，吴起走之王尸而伏之。
击起之徒因射刺吴起，并中悼王。
悼王既葬，太子立，乃使令尹尽诛射吴起而并中王尸者。坐射起而夷宗死者七十馀家。
太史公曰：世俗所称师旅，皆道孙子十三篇，吴起兵法，世多有，故弗论，论其行事所施设者。
语曰： 能行之者未必能言，能言之者未必能行。
孙子筹策庞涓明矣，然不能蚤救患於被刑。
吴起说武侯以形势不如德，然行之於楚，以刻暴少恩亡其躯。
悲夫！
translation: 
He made the law clear, acted in accordance with the law, enforced his orders, eliminated and reduced unnecessary redundant personnel, stopped alienating the royal family's regular supplies, and raised the warriors.
Committed to strengthening the military and exposing the lobbyists who come and go.
So he went south to pacify Baiyue; he went north to annex Chen and Cai, and repelled the attacks of Han, Zhao and Wei; and he went west to conquer Qin.
The princes and countries were worried about Chu's power.
The estranged royal families whose supplies were stopped by Wu Qi in the past all wanted to murder Wu Qi.
After Duke Mourning died, the royal ministers launched a riot and attacked Wu Qi. Wu Qi fled to the place where King Chu's body was buried and hid on the body of King Mourning.
The group of people attacking Wu Qi took the opportunity to shoot Wu Qi with arrows, and also hit King Mourning's body.
After the mourning king was buried, the prince ascended the throne. He ordered Ling Yin to execute all those who shot Wu Qi and also shot King Mourning's body. More than seventy people were exterminated because of the shooting of Wu Qi.
Tai Shigong said: Those who praise military warfare in society all praise the Thirteen Chapters of "Sun Tzu" and Wu Qi's "The Art of War". These two books are widely circulated in society, so I will not discuss them and will only comment on the situations involved in their lives.
As the saying goes: Those who can do may not be able to speak, and those who can speak may not be able to do.
Sun Bin's military action against Pang Juan was wise, but he himself could not avoid the torture of having his feet cut off in advance.
Wu Qi told Marquis Wu of Wei that it was better to be kind to the people than to rely on the dangerous geographical situation. However, once he came to power in Chu State, he lost his life because of his harshness, violence, and lack of kindness.
What a shame!


