Chunk 0: 
original: 
桓荣字春卿，沛郡龙亢人也。
少学长安，习《欧阳尚书》，事博士九江朱普。贫窭无资，常客佣以自给，精力不倦，十五年不窥家园。至王莽篡位乃归。
会朱普卒，荣奔丧九江，负土成坟，因留教授，徒众数百人。
莽败，天下乱。荣抱其经书与弟子逃匿山谷，虽常饥困而讲论不辍，后复客授江淮间。
建武十九年，年六十余，始辟大司徒府。
时，显宗始立为皇太子，选求明经，乃擢荣弟子豫章何汤为虎贲中郎将，以《尚书》授太子。
世祖从容问汤本师为谁，汤对曰： 事沛国桓荣。
帝即召荣，令说《尚书》，甚善之。
拜为议郎，赐钱十万，入使授太子。
每朝会，辄令荣于公卿前敷奏经书。
帝称善。曰： 得生几晚！
会欧阳博士缺，帝欲用荣。
荣叩头让曰： 臣经术浅薄，不如同门生郎中彭闳，扬州从事皋弘。
帝曰： 俞，往，女谐。
因拜荣为博士，引闳、弘为议郎。
车驾幸大学，会诸博士论难于前，荣被服儒衣，温恭有蕴藉，辩明经义，每以礼让相厌，不以辞长胜人，儒者莫之及，特加赏赐。
translation: 
◆Huan Rong's biography, Huan Rong's courtesy name is Chunqing, and he was a native of Longkang, Pei County.
When he was young, he studied "Ouyang Shangshu" in Chang'an, with Jiujiang Zhu Pu as his teacher. His family was poor and he often relied on servants to support himself. He was energetic and tireless. He did not go home to visit for fifteen years and did not return until Wang Mang usurped the throne.
When his teacher Zhu Pu passed away, Huan Rong went to Jiujiang to attend the funeral. He carried the soil to build his teacher's grave, so he stayed to teach and had hundreds of disciples.
Wang Mang failed and the world was in chaos. Huan Rong took the scriptures and fled into the valley with his students. Although he was often hungry, he continued to lecture on scriptures and treatises. Later, he taught in the Jianghuai area.
In the 19th year of Jianwu's reign, when Huan Rong was over sixty years old, he was awarded the post of Grand Situ.
At that time, Xianzong had just been established as the crown prince, and he chose to seek Ming scriptures. He promoted Huan Rong's student Yuzhang Hetang to be the general of Huben Zhonglang, and taught the prince in the Book of Documents.
Shizu calmly asked He Tang who his master was, and He Tang replied: Huan Rong of Pei State.
The emperor immediately summoned Huan Rong and ordered him to explain "Shang Shu". He thought it was very good.
He worshiped Huan Rong as Yilang, gave him one hundred thousand yuan, and allowed him to enter the palace and teach the prince.
At every court meeting, Huan Rong was often asked to explain the scriptures in front of the ministers.
The emperor praised: It's too late to get Mr.
It happened that Dr. Ouyang was vacant, and the emperor wanted to use Rong.
Rong kowtowed and said in resignation: "I am not as good at Confucian classics as my fellow disciples Peng Hong and Yangzhou engaged in Gaohong."
The emperor said: OK, go ahead, you can do the job.
So he worshiped Huan Rong as a doctor, and recommended Peng Hong and Gao Hong as doctors.
The emperor drove to the university, and just as the doctors were discussing issues, Huan Rong was dressed in Confucian clothes. He was gentle and respectful, broad and erudite. He argued clearly about the classics and the meaning of the scriptures. He always showed courtesy and submission, and did not use words to win over others. None of the Confucian scholars could compare with him, so the emperor specially rewarded him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
又诏诸生雅吹击磬，尽日乃罢。
后荣入会庭中，诏赐奇果，受者皆怀之，荣独举手捧之以拜。
帝笑指之曰： 此真儒生也。
以是愈见敬厚，常令止宿太子宫。
积五年，荣荐门下生九江胡宪侍讲，乃听得出，旦一入而已。
荣尝寝病，太子朝夕遣中傅问病，赐以珍羞、帷、帐、奴婢，谓曰： 如有不讳，无忧家室也。
后病愈，复入侍进。
二十八年，大会百官，诏问谁可傅太子者，群臣承望上意，皆言太子舅执金吾原鹿侯阴识可。
博士张佚正色曰： 今陛下立太子，为阴氏乎？为天下乎？
即为阴氏，则阴侯可；为天下，则固宜用天下之贤才。
帝称善，曰： 欲置傅者，以辅太子也。
今博士不难正朕，况太子乎？
即拜佚为太子太傅，而以荣为少傅，赐以辎车、乘马。
荣大会诸生，陈其车马、印绶，曰： 今日所蒙，稽古之力也，可不勉哉！
荣以太子经学成毕，上疏谢曰： 臣幸得侍帷幄，执经连年，而智学浅短，无以补益万分。
今皇太子以聪睿之姿，通明经义，观览古今，储君副主莫能专精博学若此者也。
translation: 
The emperor also ordered all the students to play the chime, which lasted all day.
Later, when Huan Rong entered the court, the emperor gave him a strange fruit. The recipients all took it into their arms. Huan Rong raised his hand and held the fruit in his hands to thank him.
The emperor smiled and pointed at him and said, "This man is really a Confucian scholar!"
From then on, he became more respected and was often asked to stay in the palace of the Crown Prince.
Five years later, Huan Rong recommended his disciple Hu Xian from Jiujiang to serve as a lecturer. He just listened and went to the palace once every morning.
Huan Rong was once ill. The prince sent his master to inquire about his illness in the morning and evening. He gave him delicacies, curtains, slaves, etc., and said: "If there is any problem, don't worry about the family."
Later, he recovered from his illness and went to the palace to give lectures.
In the twenty-eighth year, there was a meeting of hundreds of officials in the DPRK, and the emperor asked who could be the prince's master? The ministers observed the idea and all said that the prince's uncle could hold Jinwu's original deerhou Yinshi.
Doctor Zhang Yi said seriously: "Your Majesty, when you appoint a prince, is it for the Yin clan or for the world?"
If it is the Yin family, then Yinhou can do it; if it is the world, then the talents of the world can be used.
The emperor thought it was a good statement and said: I want to set up the Taifu to assist the prince.
Now the doctor can't help me, let alone the prince?
So he worshiped Zhang Yi as the crown prince and tutor, and Huan Rong as the young tutor, and gave him carriages and horses.
Huanrong gathered all the students, displayed the chariots and horses, seals and ribbons and said: "Today I am given a gift from the emperor. This is the power of archaeological records. Can't you encourage me?"
Huan Rong thought that the prince's study of the Confucian classics had been completed, so he thanked him and said: "I am fortunate enough to have been able to lecture on the Confucian classics for several years. However, my knowledge is shallow and short-lived, and it cannot be of great benefit."
Now the crown prince relies on his intelligence and aptitude for understanding the classics and understanding ancient and modern times. No other prince can be as knowledgeable as this.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
斯诚国家福祐，天下幸甚。
臣师道已尽，皆在太子，谨使掾臣汜再拜归道。
太子报书曰： 庄以童蒙，学道九载，而典训不明，无所晓识。
夫《五经》广大，圣言幽远，非天下之至精，岂能与于此！
况以不才，敢承诲命。
昔之先师谢弟子者有矣，上则通达经旨，分明章句，下则去家慕乡，求谢师门。
今蒙下列，不敢有辞，愿君慎疾加餐，重爱玉体。
三十年，拜为太常。
荣初遭仓卒，与族人桓元卿同饥厄，而荣讲诵不息。
元卿嗤荣曰： 但自苦气力，何时复施用乎？
荣笑不应。
及为太常，元卿叹曰： 我农家子，岂意学之为利乃若是哉！
显宗即位，尊以师礼，甚见亲重，拜二子为郎。
荣年逾八十，自以衰老，数上书乞身，辄加赏赐。
乘与尝幸太常府，令荣坐东面，设几仗，会百官骠骑将军东平王苍以下及荣门生数百人，天子亲自执业，每言辄曰 大师在是 。
translation: 
This is really a blessing to the country and a blessing to the world.
I have finished my duties as a minister, and the rest are all in the hands of the prince. I would like to ask Chen Chen to pay his respects and go home again.
The prince resumed his belief in Taoism: Zhuang Yi was a boy who had studied Taoism for nine years and knew nothing.
The "Five Classics" is so vast and the sacred words and teachings are so profound. How can one who is not the smartest person in the world master it?
What's more, if you are not as talented as me, you dare to teach and teach.
In the past, there were many teachers who thanked their disciples. At first, they understood the purpose of the scriptures and understood the chapters and sentences. At the bottom, they went to their homes and villages to thank their masters.
Now that I am experiencing the following, I dare not say anything. I hope you will recover and eat well, and take good care of your body.
In the 30th year, Huan Rong was worshiped as Taichang.
Huan Rong began to suffer, and he and his tribemate Huan Yuanqing were starving, but Huan Rong continued to recite scriptures.
Yuan Qing sneered and said: "It's just self-destruction. When will I use it again?"
Huan Rong smiled and refused.
After doing Taichang, Yuan Qing sighed: I am from a peasant family. I never thought that knowledge could be so useful.
When Xianzong came to the throne, he respected Huanrong as his master of etiquette. He was very close and respected, and he worshiped Huanrong's second son as his husband.
Huan Rong was over eighty years old and thought he was getting old. He wrote several times to request for retirement, and each time he received additional rewards.
The emperor once drove to Taichang Mansion, asked Huan Rong to sit on the east side, set up a few staffs, and gathered hundreds of officials, including Hussar General Dongping, Wang Cang, and Huan Rong's students, and hundreds of Huan Rong's students. The emperor personally practiced medicine and said every time he opened his mouth: "Master is here."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
既罢，悉以太官供具赐太常家。
其恩礼若此。
永平二年，三雍初成，拜荣为五更。
每大射养老礼毕，帝辄引荣及弟子升堂，执经自为下说。
乃封荣为关内侯，食邑五千户。
荣每疾病，帝辄遣使者存问，太官、太医相望于道。
及笃，上疏谢恩，让还爵士。
帝幸其家问起居，入街下车，拥经而前，抚荣垂涕，赐以床茵、帷帐、刀剑、衣被，良久乃去。
自是诸侯将军大夫问疾者，不敢复乘车到门，皆拜床下。
为人者，凭誉以显物；为己者，因心以会道。
桓荣之累世见宗，岂其为己乎！丁鸿字孝公，颍川定陵人也。
公綝，字幼春，王莽末守颍阳尉。
世祖略地颍阳，颍阳城守不下，綝说其宰，遂与俱降，世祖大喜，厚加赏劳，以綝为偏将军，因从征伐。綝将兵先度河，移檄郡国，攻营略地，下河南、陈留、颍川二十一县。
translation: 
After the ceremony, all the official gifts were given to the Taichang family.
Such is its gift.
In the second year of Yongping, it was built at the beginning of Sanyong, and Huanrong was worshiped as a supporter of Wu Geng.
Every time after the Dashe old-age ceremony was held, the emperor would lead Huan Rong and his disciples to the hall, hold the scriptures and speak in a few words.
So Huanrong was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of five thousand households.
Every time Huan Rong fell ill, the emperor sent envoys to express condolences, and there was an endless stream of officials and doctors.
Later, when he became seriously ill, Huan Rong came to express his gratitude and let him return his title.
The emperor personally went to his house to say hello, got off the bus in the street, came up with scriptures in his hands, caressed Huan Rong, shed tears, and gave him bedding, curtains, swords, clothes and quilts, and then walked away for a long time.
From then on, the princes, generals and officials who asked about illness no longer dared to ride to the door and prostrated themselves under the bed.
After Huan Rong died, the emperor personally changed his clothes, buried him before the funeral, and gave him a tomb in the south of Shouyang Mountain.
Except for the two brothers and the son who made up four hundred stones, eight students made up two hundred stones, and most of the other disciples became ministers. ◆Ding Hongchuan, named Xiaogong, was a native of Dingling, Yingchuan.
His father, Ding Linlin, whose courtesy name was Youchun, served as the Yingyang Wei in the last years of Wang Mang's life.
Shizu occupied Yingyang, but Yingyang city could not be defended. Ding Linlin persuaded the county magistrate and surrendered with him. The ancestors were overjoyed and rewarded them greatly. He used Ding Jinlin to lead the soldiers to cross the river first, send a message to the prefecture and the country, attack the camp and seize the territory, and captured 21 counties in Henan, Chenliu and Sichuan.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
建武元年，拜河南太守。
及封功臣，帝令各言所乐，诸将皆占丰邑美县，惟綝愿封本乡。
或谓綝曰： 人皆欲县，子独求乡，何也？
綝曰： 昔孙叔敖敕其子，受封必求硗埆之地，今綝能蒲功微，得乡亭厚矣。
帝从之，封定陵新安乡侯，食邑五千户，后徙封陵阳侯。
鸿年十三，从桓荣受《欧阳尚书》，三年而明章句，善论难，为都讲，遂笃志精锐，布衣荷担，不远千里。
初，綝从世祖征伐，鸿独与弟盛居，怜盛幼小而共寒苦。
及綝卒，鸿当袭封，上书让国于盛，不报。
既葬，乃挂缞绖于冢庐而逃去，留书与盛曰： 鸿贪经书，不顾恩义，弱而随师，生不供养，死不饭，皇天先祖，并不祐助，身被大病，不任茅土。
前上疾状，愿辞爵仲公，章寝不报，迫且当袭封。
谨自放弃。逐求良医。
如遂不瘳，永归沟壑。
translation: 
In the first year of Jianwu, Ding Linlin was worshiped as the governor of Henan.
When it came time to award the meritorious officials, the emperor asked everyone to do what they wanted. All the generals occupied Fengyi Mei County, but Ding Linlin was the only one willing to grant the title to his hometown.
Someone said to Ding Jinlin: Everyone wants to occupy the county, but you only want the hometown. Why is this?
Ding Jinlin said: In the past, Sun Shuao told his son that when he was granted a title, he must seek a barren land. Now that I can do a small job, it will be great to get a rural pavilion.
The emperor obeyed and named him Marquis of Xin'an Township, Dingling, with a settlement of 5,000 households. Later, he was renamed Marquis of Lingyang.
When Ding Hongnian was 13 years old, he studied "Ouyang Shangshu" from Huan Rong. In three years, he understood the chapters and sentences, could debate and speak for everyone, so he determined to further his studies, put on civilian clothes, carried his luggage, and traveled thousands of miles to study.
At first, Ding Jinlin followed Shizu in the expedition, and Ding Hong lived with his younger brother Ding Sheng. They loved Ding Sheng when he was young and lived a poor life together.
After Ding Jinlin's death, Ding Hong was granted the hereditary title and wrote a letter to transfer the country to Ding Sheng, but received no reply.
His father had been buried, so he hung mourning clothes in the tomb and slipped away, leaving a message to Ding Sheng: "Hong was greedy for scriptures. He ignored his kindness and righteousness. He studied with his teacher when he was young. He did not support his parents during his life. He could not fulfill his filial piety until his death. The ancestors of the emperor and heaven did not bless and help him. He was seriously ill and could not bear the soil."
The last time I wrote a letter stating my illness, I was willing to resign my title to my younger brother, but the memorial was shelved without a reply, and the time was approaching for me to be granted a title.
I would like to give up the title and seek good doctors abroad.
If the disease cannot be cured, forget about dying in a ravine.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
鸿初与九江人鲍骏同事桓荣，甚相友善，及鸿亡封，与骏遇于东海，阳狂不识骏。
骏乃止而让之曰： 昔伯夷、吴札乱世权行，故得申其志耳。
《春秋》之义，不以家事废王事。今子以兄弟私恩而绝父不灭之基，可谓智乎？
鸿感悟，垂涕叹息，乃还就国，开门教授。
鲍骏亦上书言鸿经学至行，显宗甚贤之。
永平十年诏征，鸿至即召见，说《文侯之命篇》，赐御衣及绶，禀食公车，与博士同礼。
顷之，拜侍中。
十三年，兼射声校尉。
建初四年，徙封鲁阳乡侯。
肃宗诏鸿与广平王羡及诸儒楼望、成封、桓郁、贾逵等，论定《五经》同异于北宫白虎观，使五官中郎将魏应主承制问难，侍中淳于恭奏上，帝亲称制临决。
鸿以才高，论难最明，诸儒称之，帝数嗟美焉。
时人叹曰： 殿中无双丁孝公。
数受赏赐，擢徙校书，遂代成封为少府。
translation: 
Ding Hong initially became a student with Huan Rong, a colleague of Bao Jun from Jiujiang, and the two had a close friendship. Later, Ding Hong escaped from the throne and met Bao Jun in the East China Sea. Ding Hong pretended not to know Bao Jun.
Bao Jun took Ding Hong's arm and scolded him: "In the past, Boyi and Wu Jizha were in troubled times, so they had to express their ambition to surrender the country."
The great righteousness of "Spring and Autumn" is not to waste the king's affairs because of family affairs. Now you are using your brother's affair to cut off your father's immortal inheritance. Can you say it is smart?
Ding Hong was very moved and sighed in tears, so he returned to his country and taught apprentices.
Bao Jun also wrote a letter saying that Ding Hong was a good scholar and practiced the classics, and Xianzong appreciated him very much.
In the 10th year of Yongping, the emperor issued an edict to recruit talents. Ding Hong was summoned when he arrived and told the story of "The Order of Marquis Wen". The emperor bestowed royal robes and ribbons, food and carriage, and received the same courtesy as a doctor.
Soon, he became a servant.
In the thirteenth year, he also served as the captain of Shesheng.
In the fourth year of Jianchu period, he was granted the title of Marquis of Luyang Township.
Suzong ordered Ding Hong, Wang Xian of Guangping, and other Confucian scholars such as Lou Wang, Cheng Feng, Huan Yu, Jia Kui, etc. to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics at the White Tiger Temple in the Beigong. Wei Ying, the minister of five sense organs, took over the task of handling the problem, and Chunyu, the servant, went to Gongzou, and the emperor personally announced the decision.
Ding Hong was highly talented and the most eloquent in discussing difficult issues. He was praised by many scholars and even praised by the emperor many times.
People at that time sighed: "There is no one like Ding Xiaogong in the palace."
Ding Hong was rewarded many times and promoted to school secretary, so he replaced Cheng as Shaofu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
门下由是益盛，远方至者数千人。
彭城刘恺、北海巴茂、九江朱伥皆至公卿。
元和三年，徙封马亭乡侯。
和帝即位，迁太常。永元四年，代袁安为司徒。
是时窦太后临政，宪兄弟各擅威权。
鸿因日食，上封事曰：臣闻日者阳精，守实不亏，君之象也；月者阴精，盈毁有常，臣之表也。
故日食者，臣乘君，阴陵阳；月满不亏，下骄盈也。
昔周室衰季，皇甫之属专权于外，党类强盛，侵夺主势，则日月薄食，故《诗》曰： 十月之交，朔月辛卯，日有食之，亦孔之丑。
《春秋》日食三十六，弑君三十二。
变不空生，各以类应。
夫威柄不以放下，利器不可假人。
览观往古，近察汉兴，倾危之祸，靡不由之。
是以三桓专鲁，田氏擅齐，六卿分严；诸吕握权，统嗣几移；哀、平之末，庙不血食。
故虽有周公之亲，而无其德，不得行其势也。今大将军虽欲敕身自约，不敢僭差，然而天下远近皆惶怖承旨，刺史二千石初除谒辞，求通待报，虽奉符玺、受台敕，不敢便去，久者至数十日。
translation: 
From then on, the sect became more prosperous, with thousands of people coming from far away.
Liu Kai from Pengcheng, Bamao from Beihai, and Zhu Xian from Jiujiang all became public ministers.
In the third year of Yuanhe, he was renamed Marquis of Mating Township.
Emperor He ascended the throne and was promoted to Taichang. In the fourth year of Yongyuan, Yuan An became Situ.
At this time, Empress Dowager Dou came to power, and her brothers Dou Xian were each good at authority.
Ding Hong took advantage of the solar eclipse and said to the minister: "I heard that the sun is the yang essence, and it is the symbol of the king. The moon is the yin essence, and there are certain rules for waxing and waning. This is the appearance of the minister."
Therefore, when the sun eclipses, the minister is above the king, and the yin dominates the yang; the moon is full but not waning, and the lower part is arrogant and full.
In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was in decline, Huangfu and others were monopolizing power, and the party was strong and suppressed the main force, so the sun and moon were eclipsed. "The Book of Songs" says: At the turn of October, on the new moon and Xin Mao, the sun has an eclipse, which is also the You ghost of Kong.
"Spring and Autumn" records: thirty-six solar eclipses and thirty-two regicides.
Change does not occur in space, and each responds to its own kind.
No authority should be given up, and no sharp weapon should be used as a dummy.
Looking at the past, and looking at the rise of the Han Dynasty from a closer look, all the disasters and dangers have arisen from this.
Therefore, Sanhuan was in charge of Lu, Tian was good at the administration of Qi, Liuqing divided up the Jin Dynasty, and Lu controlled the Han Dynasty. The heirs changed several times. In the last years of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, the ancestral temple could not offer sacrifices.
Therefore, although he is related to the Duke of Zhou, he does not have the virtue of the Duke of Zhou and cannot exercise his power. Now the general Dou Xian, although he wanted to restrain himself and did not dare to overstep his power, but the people all over the world were afraid to accept the decree. The governor, Er Qianshi, paid his respects at the beginning and asked for permission to be reported.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
背王室，向私门，此乃上威损，下权盛也。
人道悖于下，效验见于天，虽有隐谋，神照其情，垂象见戒，以告人君。
间者月满先节，过望不亏，此臣骄溢背君，专功独行也。
陛下未深觉悟，故天重见戒，诚宜畏惧，以防其祸。
《诗》云： 敬天之怒，不敢戏豫。
若敕政责躬，杜渐防萌，则凶妖销灭，害除福凑矣。夫坏崖破岩之水，源自涓涓；干云蔽日之木，起于葱青。
禁微则易，救末者难，人莫不忽于微细，以致其大。
恩不忍诲，义不忍割，去事之后，未然之明镜也。
臣愚以为左官外附之臣，依托权门，倾覆谄谀，以者容媚者，宜行一切之诛。
间者大将军再出，威振州郡，莫不赋敛吏人，遣使贡献。
大将军虽云不受，而物不还主，部署之吏无所畏惮，纵行非法，不伏罪辜，故海内贪猾，竞为奸吏，小民吁嗟，怨气满腹。
臣闻天不可以不刚，不刚则三光不明；王不可以不强，不强则宰牧从横。
宜因大变，改政匡失，以塞天意。
translation: 
Carrying the royal family on your back and walking toward a private door is because the authority of the superiors is reduced and the power of the inferiors is increased.
Humanity is contrary to what is below, but the results are shown in heaven. Although there is a hidden plot, the gods will observe the situation and look down at the elephant to see warnings to warn the king.
Recently, on the first day of the month, there is still no shortage after the fifteenth day. This is because the ministers are proud, disobey the king, and work alone.
Your Majesty did not notice it, so God has warned you again and you should be afraid to prevent disaster.
The Book of Songs says: Respecting Heaven's anger, one dare not play with Yu.
If we restrain our efforts and blame ourselves, and guard against the slightest, then the evil monster will be eliminated, the harm will be eliminated, and blessings will come. The water that destroys cliffs and rocks comes from trickling springs; the big trees that cover up the sun with dry clouds originate from green seedlings.
It is easy to stop the subtle things, but it is difficult to save them from the end. People often ignore the small things, which can lead to great disasters.
I can't bear to teach, but I can't bear to cut. After the incident is over, there is no clear mirror of what happened.
The foolish minister thought that all the ministers who were attached to the left official and relied on the powerful to subvert and flatter him in order to be flattered should be killed.
Recently, the general has come out again and has shaken up the prefectures and counties. They have collected taxes from the officials and sent envoys to contribute supplies.
Although the general said he would not accept it, he did not return the property to his owner, and the officials who deployed him were fearless, committed illegal acts, and refused to admit their crimes. Therefore, greed and cunning became common in the country, and people competed for traitors. The common people sighed and were filled with resentment.
I have heard that Heaven cannot be uncharitable, and if it is not strong, the Three Lights will not be clear; the king cannot be devoid of strength, and if he is not strong, he will dominate and control his herds.
We should take advantage of the great changes to correct political failures and supplement God's will.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
书奏十余日，帝以鸿行太尉兼卫尉，屯南、北宫。
于是收窦宪大将军印绶，宪及诸弟皆自杀。
时大郡口五六十万举孝廉二人，小郡口二十万并有蛮夷者亦举二人，帝以为不均，下公卿会议。
鸿与司空刘方上言： 凡口率之科，宜有阶品，蛮夷错杂，不得为数。
自今郡国率二十万口岁举孝廉一人，四十万二人，六十万三人，八十万四人，百万五人，百二十万六人。
不满二十万二岁一人，不满十万三岁一人。
帝从之。
六年，鸿薨，赐赠有加常礼。
translation: 
More than ten days after the memorial was published, the emperor sent Ding Hongxing, a Taiwei and a guard, to station in the South and North Palaces.
So General Dou Xian's seal and ribbon were confiscated, and Dou Xian and his brothers committed suicide.
At that time, the large counties recommended two filial and honest people for every five to six hundred thousand people, and the small counties also recommended two people for every two hundred thousand barbarians. The emperor thought it was unfair and submitted it to a meeting of ministers.
Ding Hong and Sikong Liu Fang said: "Anyone who uses population as a standard should have grades. Barbarians are mixed and mixed and cannot be included in the number."
From now on, in every county and state, one person for every 200,000 people will be promoted to be filial and honest, two people for every 400,000 people, three people for 600,000 people, four people for 800,000 people, five people for one million people, and six people for 1.2 million people.
If the amount is less than 200,000, one person will be promoted every two years, and if the amount is less than 100,000, one person will be promoted every three years.
The emperor obeyed.
Ding Hong died in six years, and the gifts were more than usual.


