Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘颂，字子雅，广陵人，汉广陵厉王胥之后也。
世为名族。
同郡有雷、蒋、谷、鲁四姓，皆出其下，时人为之语曰 雷、蒋、谷、鲁，刘最为祖。
父观，平阳太守。
颂少能辨物理，为时人所称。
察孝廉，举秀才，皆不就。
文帝辟为相府掾，奉使于蜀。
时蜀新平，人饥土荒，颂表求振贷，不待报而行，由是除名。
武帝践阼，拜尚书三公郎，典科律，申冤讼。
累迁中书侍郎。
咸宁中，诏颂与散骑郎白褒巡抚荆、扬，以奉使称旨，转黄门郎。
迁议郎，守廷尉。
时尚书令史扈寅非罪下狱，诏使考竟，颂执据无罪，寅遂得免，时人以颂比张释之。
在职六年，号为详平。
会灭吴，诸将争功，遣颂校其事，以王浑为上功，王浚为中功。
帝以颂持法失理，左迁京兆太守，不行，转任河内。
临发，上便宜，多所纳用。
郡界多公主水碓，遏塞流水，转为浸害，颂表罢之，百姓获其便利。
寻以母忧去职。
服阕，除淮南相。
在官严整，甚有政绩。
旧修芍陂，年用数万人，豪强兼并，孤贫失业，颂使大小戮力，计功受分，百姓歌其平惠。
颂在郡，上疏曰：
臣昔忝河内，临辞受诏： 卿所言悉要事，宜大小数以闻。
恆苦多事，或不能悉有报，勿以为疑。
臣受诏之日，喜惧交集，益思自竭，用忘其鄙，愿以萤烛，增晖重光。
translation: 
Liu Song, courtesy name Ziya, was born in Guangling and was a descendant of Liu Xu, King Li of Guangling in the Han Dynasty.
It has been a prestigious family for generations.
There were four surnames in the same county: Lei, Jiang, Gu, and Lu, all of which came from the surname Liu. People at that time made up proverbs for them and said: Lei, Jiang, Gu, and Lu, Liu is the most ancestor.
His father's name is Liu Guan, and he served as the prefect of Pingyang.
Liu Song was able to analyze physics since he was a child and was praised by people at the time.
He was recommended as a filial, honest and scholar, but he was not accepted.
Emperor Wen called him to serve as an official in the Prime Minister's Mansion and was ordered to go to Shu as an envoy.
At that time, Shu had just been pacified, the people were hungry, and the land was desolate. Liu Song petitioned for relief, but did not wait for an answer before granting relief. Therefore, he was removed from his official position.
Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty ascended the throne and appointed Liu Song as Shangshu Sangonglang, who was responsible for presiding over laws and decrees and redressing unjust cases.
Gradually he was promoted to the position of Vice Minister of Zhongshu.
During the Xianning period, Liu Song and Sanqi Lang Bai Bao were ordered to inspect the Jingyang area. Because the envoys were in compliance with the decree, they were transferred to Huang Menlang.
Then he moved to Yilang and acted as Tingwei.
At that time, Shi Huyin was not guilty and imprisoned. Shao sent Liu Song to review. He presided over the proof of innocence and Hu Yin was exempted. At that time, people compared Liu Song to Zhang Shizhi.
He has been on the job for six years and is known as being thorough and fair.
Qiahui destroyed the Kingdom of Wu. The generals competed for merit and sent Liu Song to investigate the matter. Liu Song believed that Wang Hun should be the one with the highest merit and Wang Jun should be the middle merit.
The emperor thought that Liu Song was unreasonable in enforcing the law, so he was demoted to the prefect of Jingzhao. Before taking up the post, he was transferred to Hanoi.
Before departure, it is often used to report things that will benefit the country.
Many water dams were set up by the public within the boundaries of each county, blocking the water flow and causing disasters. Liu Song petitioned to have these water dams demolished, which brought convenience to the people.
Soon he left his job due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed Prime Minister of Huainan.
During his tenure, he was serious and organized and had great political achievements.
In the past, the construction of Shaopi required tens of thousands of labors a year. The powerful took advantage of the opportunity to annex the land, and the weak and poor people lost their fields. Liu Song asked the old and young to work together, and the value was calculated according to the amount of repairs. The people praised him for his fair administration and benefiting the people.
Liu Song wrote in the county:
I used to serve in Hanoi. When I was leaving, I received an edict and said: "What you talked about are all very important things. After taking office, you should report all the big and small things."
I usually have a lot to do, so I may not be able to give you all the answers, so please don’t doubt me because of this.
On the day when the minister accepted the edict, he was filled with joy and fear, and he was even more thoughtful about doing his best to be loyal. Therefore, he forgot his own contempt and was willing to use a small candlelight to increase the glory of the emperor.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
到郡草具所陈如左，未及书上，会臣婴丁天罚，寝顿累年，今谨封上前事。
臣虽才不经国，言浅多违，犹愿陛下垂省，使臣微诚得经圣鉴，不总弃于常案。
如有足采，冀补万一。
伏见诏书，开启土宇，以支百世，封建戚属，咸出之籓，夫岂不怀，公理然也。
树国全制，始成于今，超秦、汉、魏氏之局节，绍五帝三代之绝迹。
功被无外，光流后裔，巍巍盛美，三五之君殆有惭德。
何则？
彼因自然而就之，异乎绝迹之后更创之。
虽然，封幼稚皇子于吴、蜀，臣之愚虑，谓未尽善。
夫吴、越剽轻，庸、蜀险绝，此故变衅之所出，易生风尘之地。
且自吴平以来，东南六州将士更守江表，此时之至患也。
又内兵外守，吴人有不自信之心，宜得壮主以镇抚之，使内外各安其旧。
又孙氏为国，文武众职，数拟天朝，一旦堙替，同于编户。
不识所蒙更生之恩，而灾困逼身，自谓失地，用怀不靖。
今得长王以临其国，随才授任，文武并叙，士卒百役不出其乡，求富贵者取之于国内。
内兵得散，新邦乂安，两获其所，于事为宜。
宜取同姓诸王年二十以上人才高者，分王吴、蜀。
以其去近就远，割裂土宇，令倍于旧。
以徙封故地，用王幼稚，须皇子长乃遣君之，于是无晚也。
急所须地，交得长主，此事宜也。
臣所陈封建，今大义已举，然余众事，傥有足采，以参成制，故皆并列本事。
translation: 
After I took office in the county, I scribbled down the following words. Before I could submit the memorial, I happened to suffer the death of my mother and was suspended from office for many years. Now I am cautiously relaying the things I wanted to memorialize before.
Although my talents are not good enough to govern well, and my words are superficial and wrong, I hope that Your Majesty can review them so that my loyalty can be known to His Majesty and I will not be discarded in the pile of documents.
If there are any suggestions that can be adopted, I hope that they can provide some assistance to the governance of the country.
I saw in the edict that it was said to open up a territory, establish a century-old foundation, enfeoff relatives, and let them go out to guard the vassal state. Don't you miss them, but this is the justice.
The construction of a sound national system has been successful to this day, surpassing the narrow etiquette system of Qin, Hui, and Xiuji, and carrying forward the annihilation of the Five Emperors and Three Conquests.
The achievements are spread all over the world, and the glory shines on future generations. It is so majestic and beautiful that some emperors of the previous generation may feel ashamed that they are not kind and virtuous.
Why?
Because they achieved great achievements by following nature, which is fundamentally different from today's creation of great achievements after extinction.
Even so, in my opinion, it is not the best to assign the young prince to Xingshu.
The people in the Wu and Yue areas are frivolous, while the Lu and Shu areas are dangerous and far away, so accidents and rebellions often occur, making it a place where things can easily happen.
Moreover, since the pacification of Wu, having soldiers from the six southeastern states guard the lower reaches of Kenliao has been the biggest hidden danger at present.
In addition, the inland troops were out guarding other places, and the Wu people themselves did not trust the imperial court. They should have strong generals to guard and appease them, so that they could be content with the status quo both internally and externally.
After the Sun family founded the country, there were many civil and military officials, the number of which was similar to that of our dynasty. Once the country was destroyed, they would be the same as the common people.
They did not see the benefit of being reborn, but believed that disaster and hardship forced them to lose their original land, so they harbored the intention of causing chaos.
Now there should be an elderly and virtuous king to rule the land of Wu, appointing officials according to their talents, using both civil and military services, so that the army and all kinds of labor do not come from these places, and those who want to seek wealth and honor can seek it within the feudal state.
The internal troops can be disbanded, and the newly acquired feudal state can be safe. It is the best of both worlds, and the dispatch is also very appropriate.
Therefore, among the kings with the same surname, those who are over 20 years old and have talents should be selected to entrust Wu and Shu.
Depending on the distance they traveled, the land given to them was twice that of the previous feudal countries.
For example, if the prince is young when he moves to the old place, it will not be too late to send him to rule those areas when he grows up.
It is more appropriate to deal with the urgent matters in those areas and obtain an older feudal lord.
The matters related to enfeoffment that I have reported have been summarized in general, but there are other matters that, if applicable, can be used as a reference for various previous systems, so they are all listed below.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
臣闻：不惮危悔之患，而愿献所见者，尽忠之臣也；垂听逆耳，甘纳苦言者，济世之君也。
臣以期运，幸遇无讳之朝。
虽尝抗疏陈辞，泛论政体，犹未悉所见，指言得失，徒荷恩宠，不异凡流。
臣窃自愧，不尽忠规，无以上报，谨列所见如左。
臣诚未自许所言必当，然要以不隐所怀为上报之节。
若万一足采，则微臣更生之年；如皆瞽妄，则国之福也。
愿陛下缺半日之间，垂省臣言。
伏惟陛下虽应天顺人，龙飞践阼，为创基之主，然所遇之时，实是叔世。
何则？
汉末陵迟，阉竖用事，小人专朝，君子在野，政荒众散，遂以乱亡。
魏武帝以经略之才，拨烦理乱，兼肃文教，积数十年，至于延康之初，然后吏清下顺，法始大行。
逮至文、明二帝，奢淫骄纵，倾殆之主也。
然内盛台榭声色之娱，外当三方英豪严敌，事成克举，少有愆违，其故何也？
实赖前绪，以济勋业。
然法物政刑，固已渐穨矣。
自嘉平之初，晋祚始基，逮于咸熙之末，其间累年。
虽鈇钺屡断，翦除凶丑，然其存者咸蒙遭时之恩，不轨于法。
泰始之初，陛下践阼，其所服乘皆先代功臣之胤，非其子孙，则其曾玄。
古人有言，膏粱之性难正，故曰时遇叔世。
当此之秋，天地之位始定，四海洗心整纲之会也。
然陛下犹以用才因宜，法宽有由，积之在素，异于汉、魏之先。三祖崛起，易朝之为，未可一旦直绳御下，诚时宜也。
然至所以为政，矫世众务，自宜渐出公涂，法正威断，日迁就肃。譬由行舟，虽不横截迅流，然俄向所趣，渐靡而往，终得其济。
积微稍著，以至于今，可以言政。
translation: 
I know: He who is not afraid of danger and disaster, but is willing to contribute what he hears and sees, is a loyal minister; he who listens to harsh words and is willing to accept bitter words is a king who can govern the world.
I am lucky and have the honor to meet the court who has no taboos.
Although he once wrote frankly and made speeches, and discussed state affairs extensively, he still did not report everything he saw and heard, pointing out the pros and cons, and received grace in vain, just like ordinary people.
I feel very ashamed and am unable to give my loyal advice and repay the favor. I will only list my experiences below.
I really don’t dare to claim that what I said is definitely correct, but I probably mean that I don’t conceal what I think.
If there is anything that can be adopted, it will be the year of my rebirth; if it is all nonsense, it will also be a good thing for the country.
Please take a moment, Your Majesty, to read my memorial.
I think that although Your Majesty obeyed the destiny and ascended the throne and became the founder of the country, the opportunity he encountered was the end of the world.
Why do you say this?
At the end of the Han Dynasty, the eunuchs monopolized the power, villains controlled the government, and the gentlemen were in the opposition. The country was abandoned and the people were scattered, and finally it declined and perished.
Emperor Wu of Wei used his talents and strategies to correct chaos and rectify culture and education. After decades of accumulation, by the beginning of Yankang, the officials were honest and the people were obedient, and the legal system was widespread in the world.
When it came to Emperors Wen and Ming, they were arrogant and extravagant. Become the leader who brings down the country.
However, it is still popular to travel and enjoy music and beauty at home, and there are threats from heroes from the three parties outside. All major national affairs can be successful, and there are few mistakes. What is the reason for this?
In fact, it was all based on previous prosperity to support current performance.
However, systems such as legislation, criminal administration, etc. have gradually declined.
From the early years of Jiaping, when the Jin Dynasty was established, to the last years of Xianxi, it took many years.
Although iron instruments of torture are often used to cut off some cruel people, the good people who are left behind are all given temporary favors and cannot be punished by the law.
In the early years of Taishi, after His Majesty ascended the throne, the people he appointed were all descendants of the heroes of the previous generation, either their descendants or their great-grandsons.
The ancients said that the nature of coveting delicious food is difficult to correct, so I said that I have met the end of the world.
In the troubled autumn, the world has just stabilized, and it is an opportunity to change one's mind and rectify the principles of discipline.
However, His Majesty still believes in employing appropriate personnel and loose laws. Over time, the Han Dynasty will be different from the entrepreneurs of the Han and Wei Dynasties. Our dynasty, which only emerged after three ancestors, did not use strict laws to rule overnight. This is indeed the case.
But in terms of government, correcting various things should naturally be based on the path of justice, and the law should be just and majestic, moving towards rectification day by day, just like a boat on the water. Although it cannot cross the rapids, it can move sideways and gradually move forward, and eventually it can cross the river.
From a little to a lot, you can now govern the country well.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
而自泰始以来，将三十年，政功美绩，未称圣旨，凡诸事业，不茂既往。
以陛下明圣，犹未及叔世之弊，以成始初之隆，传之后世，不无虑乎！
意者，臣言岂不少概圣心夫！
顾惟万载之事，理在二端。
天下大器，一安难倾，一倾难正。
故虑经后世者，必精目下之政，政安遗业，使数世赖之。
若乃兼建诸侯而树籓屏，深根固蒂，则祚延无穷，可以比迹三代。
如或当身之政，遗风余烈不及后嗣，虽树亲戚，而成国之制不建，使夫后世独任智力以安大业。
若未尽其理，虽经异时，忧责犹追在陛下，将如之何！
愿陛下善当今之政，树不拔之势，则天下无遗忧矣。
夫圣明不世及，后嗣不必贤，此天理之常也。
故善为天下者，任势而不任人。
任势者，诸侯是也；任人者，郡县是也。
郡县之察，小政理而大势危；诸侯为邦，近多违而远虑固。
圣王推终始之弊，权轻重之理，包彼小违以据大安，然后足以籓固内外，维镇九服。
夫武王圣主也，成王贤嗣也，然武王不恃成王之贤而广封建者，虑经无穷也。
且善言今者，必有验之于古。
唐、虞以前，书文残缺，其事难详。
至于三代，则并建明德，及兴王之显亲，列爵五等，开国承家，以籓屏帝室，延祚久长，近者五六百岁，远者仅将千载。
逮至秦氏，罢侯置守，子弟不分尺土，孤立无辅，二世而亡。
汉承周、秦之后，杂而用之，前后二代各二百馀年。
揆其封建不用，虽强弱不适，制度舛错，不尽事中，然迹其衰亡，恆在同姓失职，诸侯微时，不在强盛。
translation: 
However, in the past thirty years since the Taishi period, the achievements in state affairs have not been in line with the will of the Holy One, and various undertakings have not been as good as in the past.
With your Majesty's wisdom, you have not changed the ills of the last days, but you have accomplished great things and passed them on to future generations. Don't you have any worries?
In other words, can’t my words be placed in the heart of the Holy One?
Looking back on the major events of thousands of years, there are two truths.
Once a country in the world is stable, it is difficult to overturn it, and once it is overturned, it is difficult to correct it.
Therefore, a monarch who thinks about the longevity of future generations must carefully manage the current political affairs. Only by stabilizing the political power and leaving great achievements can future generations have something to rely on.
If the princes and kings are established at the same time and the vassal state is established and deeply rooted, the national destiny will continue endlessly and can be compared with the three generations.
If the state affairs and legacy of one's reign cannot be passed on to future generations, even if a vassal state is established, the system that builds the foundation of a great country is not established, and the successors can only rely on their own talents to build the great cause of the country.
If we cannot act according to reason, even in the future, the responsibility for the troubles will still be held on His Majesty. What will we do then?
I hope that Your Majesty can govern today's country well and establish an indestructible force, so that there will be no trouble in the world.
Saint wisdom cannot be passed on to future generations, and those who follow it are not necessarily wise. This is common sense.
Therefore, those who are good at governing the world will adapt to the situation rather than relying on others.
Complying with the situation refers to enfeoffing princes; relying on people refers to counties and counties.
By inspecting counties and counties, small political affairs can be managed but the big situation is very critical; as a vassal state, the princes will make many mistakes in the past but be very stable in the long run.
The sage emperor speculates on the shortcomings of the past and the present, weighs the principles of importance, tolerates the small mistakes of the princes, and stabilizes the great stability. This is enough to consolidate the domestic and foreign vassals and maintain the rule of the world.
King Wu was the holy master, and King Cheng was his virtuous successor. However, the reason why King Wu did not rely on King Cheng's virtuousness to establish a feudal kingdom was because he considered the long-term spread of the country's great cause.
Moreover, those who are good at talking about today's national affairs must use what happened in ancient times as verification.
There are incomplete historical records of events before Tang and Yu, so it is difficult to know the details at that time.
In the third generation, the benevolence of the saints and the relatives who established emperors were entrusted to them according to the fifth-level titles, so that they could establish the country and inherit the family, which was used to protect the royal family and ensure the long-term destiny of the country. The short time was five to six hundred years, and the long time was nearly a thousand years.
In the Qin Dynasty, the princes were dismissed and prefectures and counties were established. The emperor, princes and younger brothers were not given any land, so they were isolated and without help, and they perished in two generations.
After the Han Dynasty inherited the Zhou Dynasty and the Qin Dynasty, the princes, prefectures and counties were mixed and established, and each of them lasted for more than 200 years.
At that time, there was no need for enfeoffment. Although the vassal states had different strengths and weaknesses, and the system was full of mistakes and incomplete, the signs of their decline often showed that the kings with the same surname lost their power. The power of the vassal kings was weak, not because of their strength.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
昔吕氏作乱，幸赖齐、代之援，以宁社稷。
七国叛逆，梁王捍之，卒弭其难。
自是之后，威权削夺，诸侯止食租奉，甚者至乘牛车。
是以王莽得擅本朝，遂其奸谋，倾荡天下，毒流生灵。
光武绍起，虽封树子弟，而不建成国之制，祚亦不延。
魏氏承之，圈闭亲戚，幽囚子弟，是以神器速倾，天命移在陛下。
长短之应，祸福之徵，可见于此。
又魏氏虽正位居体，南面称帝，然三方未宾，正朔有所不加，实有战国相持之势。
大晋之兴，宣帝定燕，太祖平蜀，陛下灭吴，可谓功格天地，土广三王，舟车所至，人迹所及，皆为臣妾，四海大同，始于今日。
宜承大勋之籍，及陛下圣明之时，开启土宇，使同姓必王，建久安于万载，垂长世于无穷。
臣又闻国有任臣则安，有重臣则乱。
而王制，人君立子以嫡不以长，立嫡以长不以贤，此事情之不可易者也。
而贤明至少，不肖至众，此固天理之常也。
物类相求，感应而至，又自然也。
是以暗君在位，则重臣盈朝；明后临政，则任臣列职。
夫任臣之与重臣，俱执国统而立断者也。然成败相反，邪正相背，其故何也？
重臣假所资以树私，任臣因所籍以尽公。
尽公者，政之本也；树私者，乱之源也。
推斯言之，则泰日少，乱日多，政教渐穨，欲国之无危，不可得也。
又非徒唯然而已。
translation: 
When the Lu family was in rebellion, they relied on the assistance of the two kings of Qi and Dai to stabilize the country.
When the Seven Kingdoms rebelled, King Liang defended the country and finally put down the rebellion.
From then on, the power of the princes and kings was reduced, and they only had the right to enjoy the rents and benefits of feudal states, and what was worse, they even had the power to ride in carts pulled by oxen.
Therefore, Wang Mang was able to usurp the Han Dynasty and realize his treacherous plan, causing the world to overturn and turmoil and harm the people.
After Emperor Guangwu succeeded to the throne, although he appointed his children as kings, he did not establish the system of establishing a country, and the country's destiny did not last long.
The Wei family inherited the Han Dynasty, confined relatives, and imprisoned their children. As a result, the fate of the country quickly collapsed, and the destiny was transferred to His Majesty.
From this we can see the fulfillment of strengths and weaknesses, and the signs of disaster and blessing.
In addition, although the Wei family was in the right position, facing south and proclaimed the emperor, the three parties had not yet submitted, and the imperial power could not override those areas. In fact, it formed a situation of confrontation between various countries during the Warring States Period.
The rise of the Jin Dynasty, Emperor Xuan pacified Yan, Taizu pacified Shu, and His Majesty destroyed Wu. It can be said that his achievements are unparalleled in the world. The territory is wider than that of the three kings. Places that can be accessed by cars and ships, and places that can be reached by human beings have become His Majesty's slaves. The unification of the four seas begins today.
We should take advantage of the opportunity of the great achievements of the emperor and the time of His Majesty's sage to enfeoff the land, make the children of the same surname the princes and kings, and establish long-lasting peace and stability for thousands of generations, which will be passed down from generation to generation.
I also heard that if a country has capable ministers, it will be peaceful, but if it has powerful ministers, it will be chaotic.
As for the imperial system, the monarch appoints the prince as his legitimate son instead of according to his age, and appoints his legitimate son as the older one rather than according to their virtuousness. This cannot be changed.
But there are very few who are wise and many who have no talent. This is the general situation.
It is natural for things to seek each other, react to each other and come together.
Therefore, when a foolish king is in power, the court will be filled with powerful ministers; when a wise emperor is in power, capable ministers will occupy positions.
The capable ministers and the powerful ministers are all in charge of state affairs and make decisions about the government, but their success and failure are opposite, and evil and right are at odds with each other. Why is this?
Powerful ministers use their power to establish private parties, while capable ministers use their power to do their best for the public.
Doing your best for the public is the foundation of politics; establishing private parties is the source of chaos.
Comparatively speaking, there are few days of stability and many days of chaos. The political and religious affairs are gradually decadent. It is impossible to keep the country from danger.
It's not just that.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
借令愚劣之嗣，蒙先哲之遗绪，得中贤之佐，而树国本根不深，无干辅之固，则所谓任臣者化而为重臣矣。
何则？国有可倾之势，则执权者见疑，众疑难以自信，而甘受死亡者非人情故也。
若乃建基既厚，籓屏强御，虽置幼君赤子而天下不惧，曩之所谓重臣者，今悉反忠而为任臣矣。
何则？理无危势，怀不自猜，忠诚得著，不惕于邪故也。
圣王知贤哲之不世及，故立相持之势以御其臣。
是以五等既列，臣无忠慢，同于竭节，以徇其上。
群后既建，继体贤鄙，亦均一契，等于无虑。
且树国苟固，则所任之臣，得贤益理，次委中智，亦足以安。
何则？
势固易持故也。
然则建邦苟尽其理，则无向不可。
是以周室自成、康以下，逮至宣王，宣王之后，到于赧王，其间历载，朝无名臣，而宗庙不陨者，诸侯维持之也。
故曰，为社稷计，莫若建国。
夫邪正逆顺者，人心之所系服也。今之建置，宜审量事势，使诸侯率义而动，同忿俱奋，令其力足以维带京邑。
若包藏祸心，惕于邪而起，孤立无党，所蒙之籍不足独以有为。
然齐此甚难，陛下宜与达古今善识事势之士深共筹之。
建侯之理，使君乐其国，臣荣其朝，各流福祚，传之无穷。上下一心，爱国如家，视百姓如子，然后能保荷天禄，兼翼王室。
今诸王裂土，皆兼于古之诸侯，而君贱其爵，臣耻其位，莫有安志，其故何也？
法同郡县，无成国之制故也。
今之建置，宜使率由旧章，一如古典。
然人心系常，不累十年，好恶未改，情愿未移。
臣之愚虑，以为宜早创大制，迟回众望，犹在十年之外，然后能令君臣各安其位，荣其所蒙，上下相持，用成籓辅。
如今之为，适足以亏天府之藏，徒弃谷帛之资，无补镇国卫上之势也。
translation: 
If the ignorant, inferior and weak successors inherit the karma of the previous generation of philosopher kings and are assisted by middle-level talents, but the foundation of establishing the country is not deep and there is no situation of mutual support, then the so-called capable ministers will become powerful ministers. Why?
When a country is in danger of overthrowing, those in power will be doubted, and it will be difficult to be confident when others are suspicious of them. It is not natural to be willing to accept death, so in order to protect oneself, one becomes a powerful official.
If the national foundation is deep and the vassal state as a barrier is strong, then even if a young monarch is established, the people of the world will not be afraid. The powerful ministers in the past are now loyal and capable ministers. Why?
Logically speaking, the country is not in danger, ministers are not suspected, and loyal people are commended, precisely because they are not afraid of evil.
The sage emperors knew that virtuous philosopher kings would not appear from generation to generation, so they established a stalemate situation to rule ministers.
Therefore, once the fifth-level titles are established, ministers, whether loyal or treacherous, will try their best to stay loyal and obey their masters.
Once the princes are confirmed, the successors will be treated the same regardless of whether they are talented or humble, which means there is no need to worry.
Moreover, if the feudal state is stable, then the appointed ministers and capable people will make the country better governed; appointing ministers with moderate intelligence will also be enough to maintain long-term stability.
Why?
This is because the country's power is inherently easy to maintain.
In this way, if a state is established in a reasonable manner, everything will be accomplished.
Therefore, since the Zhou Dynasty became Kang, after King Xuan, until King Nan, there were many dynasties in the middle of the period. The court had no famous ministers, but the reason why the country did not fall was precisely because of the help of the princes.
Therefore, for the sake of the country, nothing is more important than establishing a feudal state.
The right and wrong are the key to maintaining people's hearts. When establishing a vassal state now, we should assess the situation and let the princes and kings act righteously and share the same hatred of the enemy, so that they are strong enough to defend the capital.
If a prince harbors evil intentions and rises up due to treachery, he will be isolated and helpless, and the power he relies on will not be enough to make a difference.
But it is difficult to do this. Your Majesty should plan together with people who understand the past and present and understand the situation.
The purpose of establishing a vassal state is to make the princes take pleasure in the vassal state, and the ministers take it as an honor to be in the court of the feudal state, so that their respective blessings can be passed on to all generations; the top and bottom are united, love the country like family, and treat the people as children. Only then can they continue to enjoy blessings and protect the royal family.
Nowadays, the fiefdoms of the princes and kings exceed those of the ancient princes. However, the princes despise the title, and the ministers feel ashamed of their position and have no stable mind. What is the reason?
This is because they have the same status as counties and counties and do not have a feudal system.
The current construction should be in accordance with the old regulations, just like the ancient regulations.
But people's hearts are always stable. Within ten years, their likes and dislikes will not change, and their wishes will not change.
My stupid idea is that we should establish the system early. If we are too late, we will lose public support. It will take ten years to change people's hearts. If we establish the system early, we can make the emperor and his ministers settle down in their respective positions, be proud of their positions, and support each other, forming a situation of feudal support.
If it remains as it is now, it will only be a loss-making country's storage of supplies, a waste of food and cloth, and will not contribute to the overall situation of guarding the country and defending the emperor.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
古者封建既定，各有其国，后虽王之子孙，无复尺土，此今事之必不行者也。
若推亲疏，转有所废，以有所树，则是郡县之职，非建国之制。
今宜豫开此地，令十世之内，使亲者得转处近。
十世之远，近郊地尽，然后亲疏相维，不得复如十世之内。
然犹树亲有所，迟天下都满，已弥数百千年矣。
今方始封而亲疏倒施，甚非所宜。
宜更大量天下土田方里之数，都更裂土分人，以王同姓，使亲疏远近不错其宜，然后可以永安。
古者封国，大者不过土方百里，然后人数殷众，境内必盈其力，足以备充制度。
今虽一国周环近将千里，然力实寡，不足以奉国典。
所遇不同，故当因时制宜，以尽事适今。
宜令诸王国容少而军容多，然于古典所应有者悉立其制，然非急所须，渐而备之，不得顿设也。
须车甲器械既具，群臣乃服彩章；仓廪已实，乃营宫室；百姓已足，乃备官司；境内充实，乃作礼乐。
唯宗庙社稷，则先建之。
至于境内之政，官人用才，自非内史、国相命于天子，其余众职及死生之断、谷帛资实、庆赏刑威、非封爵者，悉得专之。
今臣所举二端，盖事之大较，其所不载，应在二端之属者，以此为率。
今诸国本一郡之政耳，若备旧典，则官司以数，事所不须，而以虚制损实力。
至于庆赏刑断，所以卫下之权，不重则无以威众人而卫上。
故臣之愚虑，欲令诸侯权具，国容少而军容多，然亦终于必备今事为宜。
translation: 
In ancient times, it was established that the feudal lords would have their own feudal states. Later, even if they were the descendants of the princes and kings, it would be impossible to send them to the land without enfeoffing the size of the land today.
If we infer closeness and alienation, and then depose those who are far away and establish those who are close, it will be like the official system of counties and counties, not the system of establishing a feudal state.
Now we should implement enfeoffment in advance, so that people who are closely related by blood within ten lifetimes can be enfeoffed in suburban areas.
After the tenth life, the enfeoffment of the suburbs will be completed, and then the close and distant people will support each other, and they can no longer be the same as before the tenth life.
But there is still room for establishing kinship feudal states, and by the time all the kingdoms are filled, hundreds or thousands of years will have passed.
Now that the enfeoffment has just begun, it is very inappropriate to reverse the relationship between closeness and distance.
We should once again measure the amount of land in the world on a large scale and allocate it to people, so that relatives with the same surname can be kings, so that close relatives and close relatives will not be misplaced and everyone will have their own place, so that there will be eternal peace.
In ancient times, a feudal state was no larger than a hundred miles in radius, and with a large number of people, the territory must have enough manpower to complete various systems.
Now, although the country is nearly a thousand miles away, the country's power is actually too weak to respect the country's laws.
The situations you encounter are different, so you should adapt to the current conditions and adapt to today's situation.
Therefore, the vassal kingdoms should have fewer ritual systems but more military disciplines. However, all the systems that the vassal states should have in the ancient canon system should be established and improved. Some systems that are not urgently needed can be gradually completed and completed, and they cannot be established all at once.
When the chariots, armor, and equipment are all ready, the ministers will wear colorful clothes; when the warehouses are full, then the palaces will be built; when the people are rich, then the court offices will be completed; when the country is full, then the ritual and music system will be established.
But the ancestral temple and community should be built first.
As for the government affairs within the territory, the appointment of officials, if they are internal history and state ministers, are appointed by the emperor. Other duties at all levels, as well as decisions about life and death, food and materials, punishments and rewards, and matters other than titles, are all handled by the princes and kings exclusively.
The two points I have listed are the general outlines of this matter; anything that is not stated in them should be within the scope of these two points, and this should prevail.
Today's vassal states were originally just the political affairs of a county. If the ancient regulations and systems were established, there would be too many government agencies and there would be no need for those institutions. The false official system would waste strength.
As for punishments and rewards, it is the power to rule the subordinates. If the power is not strong, it cannot rule everyone and protect the emperor.
Therefore, my opinion is that if you want to give the princes power, they should have less etiquette and more military discipline, but in the end they should still be able to handle today's affairs.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
周之建侯，长享其国，与王者并，远者仅将千载，近者犹数百年；汉之诸王，传祚暨至曾玄。
人性不甚相远，古今一揆，而短长甚违，其故何邪？
立意本殊而制不同故也。
周之封建，使国重于君，公侯之身轻于社稷，故无道之君不免诛放。
敦兴灭继绝之义，故国祚不泯。
不免诛放，则群后思惧；胤嗣必继，是无亡国也。
诸侯思惧，然后轨道，下无亡国，天子乘之，理势自安，此周室所以长在也。
汉之树置君国，轻重不殊，故诸王失度，陷于罪戮，国随以亡。
不崇兴灭继绝之序，故下无固国。
下无固国，天子居上，势孤无辅，故奸臣擅朝，易倾大业。
今宜反汉之弊，修周旧迹。
国君虽或失道，陷于诛绝，又无子应除，苟有始封支胤，不问远近，必绍其祚。
若无遗类，则虚建之，须皇子生，以继其统，然后建国无灭。
又班固称 诸侯失国亦犹网密 ，今又宜都宽其检。
且建侯之理，本经盛衰，大制都定，班之群后，著誓丹青，书之玉版，藏之金匮，置诸宗庙，副在有司。
寡弱小国犹不可危，岂况万乘之主！
承难倾之邦而加其上，则自然永久居重固之安，可谓根深华岳而四维之也。
臣之愚，愿陛下置天下于自安之地，寄大业于固成之势，则可以无遗忧矣。
今阎闾少名士，官司无高能，其故何也？
清议不肃，人不立德，行在取容，故无名士。
translation: 
The princes established in the Zhou Dynasty enjoyed long-term feudal status and coexisted with the person who claimed the title of king, which lasted for nearly a thousand years or even hundreds of years. The princes and kings of the Han Dynasty only passed the throne to their great-grandsons or great-great-grandchildren.
Human nature is not far apart, it is the same in ancient times and modern times, but the ages of these two generations of princes and kings enjoying their kingdoms are very different. What is the reason for this?
It’s because the intention is different and the system is different.
The Zhou Dynasty established princes, making the feudal state more important than the monarch, and the prince's body was less important than the country. Therefore, the unrighteous monarch would inevitably be executed and exiled.
Effectively revitalize the feudal states that inherit the vassals that are about to become extinct, so that the country will not be lost.
It is inevitable that he will be executed and exiled, and the princes and kings will be afraid; his descendants will definitely inherit the throne, so the country will not be destroyed.
The princes and kings were afraid, and then they abided by the laws, so that the princes and kingdoms did not perish. The emperor's rule relied on them, and the country's power was naturally stable. This was the reason why the Zhou Dynasty existed for a long time.
In the Han Dynasty, feudal states were set up with the same severity. Therefore, the princes and kings lost their legal authority, fell into crime and were killed, and the feudal states perished.
I don't believe in the principle of prosperity, succession and extinction, so I don't have a stable feudal state.
There is no stable feudal state below, and the emperor lives above, and his power is lonely and has no one to help him. Therefore, treacherous ministers control the government, which will easily lead to the country's destruction.
Now we should reform the shortcomings of the Han Dynasty and repair the old system of the Zhou Dynasty.
Even if there is an unjust monarch who is killed and exterminated, and there are no heirs to inherit the throne, if there are descendants of the original feudal state, they will definitely inherit the throne regardless of their closeness.
If there are no descendants left, a vacant throne will be set up, and a prince will be born to inherit the country's rule, and then the country will continue to prosper and not be destroyed.
Ban Gu said that the princes lost their feudal states because of the strict legal network, so inspections on them should be relaxed now.
Moreover, the rationale for establishing a feudal state, the ups and downs of relationships, and the general system were all determined. Each feudal king was announced, the oath of alliance was revealed, written on a jade tablet, hidden in a gold cabinet, placed in the ancestral temple, and the copy was hidden in the relevant department.
In this case, the small and weak feudal kingdom will not be in danger, let alone the lord of the kingdom of ten thousand chariots!
When the king is above the feudal state that is difficult to overturn, he will be stable and safe, as deep-rooted as the Huayue Mountains, and the world will be at peace.
My opinion is that I hope that Your Majesty can be in a safe position and rely on the great achievements that have been made, so that there will be no future troubles.
Nowadays, there are no famous people in the countryside and no talented people in the government offices. What is the reason for this?
Discussions on current affairs are not conducted in a serious manner, people do not establish moral character, and every move is done to please others, so there are no celebrities.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
下不专局，又无考课，吏不竭节，故无高能。
无高能，则有疾世事；少名士，则后进无准，故臣思立吏课而肃清议。
夫欲富贵而恶贫贱，人理然也。
圣王大谙物情，知不可去，故直同公私之利，而诡其求道，使夫欲富者必先由贫，欲贵者必先安贱。
安贱则不矜，不矜然后廉耻厉；守贫者必节欲，节欲然后操全。
以此处务，乃得尽公。
尽公者，富贵之徒也。为无私者终得其私，故公私之利同也。
今欲富者不由贫自得富，欲贵者不安贱自得贵，公私之涂既乖，而人情不能无私，私利不可以公得，则恆背公而横务。
是以风节日穨，公理渐替，人士富贵，非轨道之所得。
以此为政，小大难期。
然教穨来既久，难反一朝。
又世放都靡，营欲比肩，群士浑然，庸行相似，不可顿肃，甚殊黜陟也。
且教不求尽善，善在抑尤，同侈之中，犹有甚泰。
使夫昧适情之乐者，捐其显荣之贵，俄在不鲜之地；约己洁素者，蒙俭德之报，列于清官之上。
二业分流，令各有蒙。
然俗放都奢，不可顿肃，故臣私虑，愿先从事于渐也。
天下至大，万事至众，人君至少，同于天日，故非垂听所得周览。
是以圣王之化，执要而已，委务于下而不以事自婴也。
分职既定，无所与焉，非惮日昃之勤，而牵于逸豫之虞，诚以政体宜然，事势致之也。
何则？
夫造创谋始，逆暗是非，以别能否，甚难察也。
既以施行，因其成败，以分功罪，甚易识也。
translation: 
The people below do not specialize in one position, nor do they conduct assessments. Officials do not try their best, so there are no very talented people.
If there are not people with high talents, national affairs will be jeopardized; if there are too few celebrities, there will be no source for those who are less advanced. Therefore, I think officials should be evaluated and discussions on current affairs should be purged.
It is human nature to want to be rich and hate poverty.
The sage king understood the rationality of things very well and knew that this common feeling could not be eliminated, so he equated public and private interests, and ordered people to seek wealth according to morality, so that those who want to be rich must first go through poverty, and those who want to be noble must first settle for humbleness.
If you are content with being humble, you will not be proud. If you are not proud, you will have integrity. People who persist in poverty will inevitably control their desires. If they control their desires, they can maintain their moral integrity.
By handling affairs in this way, you can do your best for the public good.
Doing your best for the public is the road to wealth; those who do not seek personal gain will eventually gain private gain, so public and private interests are the same.
Nowadays, those who want to be rich can get rich without going through poverty, and those who want to be distinguished can be distinguished without being content with being humble. Public and private interests are opposite, which leads to the fact that human relationships cannot be without selfishness. If private interests are not satisfied through public means, they will often betray the public and take private interests.
Therefore, customs and morals are becoming more and more decadent day by day, justice is gradually lost, and people do not seek wealth through legal channels.
When handling government affairs in this way, it is difficult to achieve everything big or small.
However, political and religious decadence has been going on for a long time and cannot be reversed overnight.
In addition, the social atmosphere is luxurious and sluggish, and people compete for selfish interests. Everyone behaves in the same vulgar way, and it cannot be rectified and eliminated at once.
Moreover, politics and religion do not strive for perfection, but rather for restraining the powerful. Among people who are equally extravagant, there are those who are even more excessive.
Those who do not know what is reasonable and indulge in indulgence should be allowed to give up their glorious wealth and be in a barren land; those who restrain themselves to be honest and simple should be rewarded with frugal virtues and ranked in the position of honest officials.
Separate the two situations so that each can find its place.
However, the extravagant social atmosphere cannot be rectified and eliminated in a short period of time, so I think about it privately and hope to change it gradually.
The world is huge and there are many things. There is only one emperor, just like there is only one sun in the sky, so we cannot listen to everything.
Therefore, the teachings of the sage king only grasped the main points and entrusted government affairs to the officials below instead of handling everything themselves.
Once the division of responsibilities has been determined, stop participating, don't work day and night, and don't be afraid of people saying you don't care. This is how the government should be, and the situation has led to this.
Why?
When I first started planning my business, I didn’t know right from wrong. It was difficult to distinguish between the capable and the incompetent, and it was difficult to examine officials.
After it has been implemented, it is very easy to distinguish merits and demerits according to the success or failure of doing things.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
易识在考终，难察在造始，故人君恆居其易则安，人臣不处其难则乱。
今陛下每精事始而略于考终，故群吏虑事怀成败之惧轻，饰文采以避目下之谴重，此政功所以未善也。
今人主能恆居易执要以御其下，然后人臣功罪形于成败之征，无逃其诛赏。
故罪不可蔽，功不可诬。
功不可诬，则能者劝；罪不可蔽，则违慢日肃，此为国之大略也。
臣窃惟陛下圣心，意在尽善，惧政有违，故精事始，以求无失。
又以众官胜任者少，故不委务，宁居日昃也。
臣之愚虑，窃以为今欲尽善，故宜考终。
何则？
精始难校故也。
又群官多不胜任，亦宜委务，使能者得以成功，不能者得以著败。
败著可得而废，功成可得遂任，然后贤能常居位以善事，暗劣不得以尸禄害政。
如此不已，则胜任者渐多，经年少久，即群司遍得其人矣。
此校才考实，政之至务也。
今人主不委事仰成，而与诸下共造事始，则功罪难分。
下不专事，居官不久，故能否不别。何以验之？
今世士人决不悉良能也，又决不悉疲软也。
然今欲举一忠贤，不知所赏；求一负败，不知所罚。
及其免退，自以犯法耳，非不能也。
登进者自以累资及人间之誉耳，非功实也。
若谓不然，则当今之政未称圣旨，此其征也。
陛下御今法为政将三十年，而功未日新，其咎安在？
古人有言： 琴瑟不调，甚者必改而更张。
凡臣所言，诚政体之常，然古今异宜，所遇不同。
translation: 
It is easy to identify after inspection, and it is difficult to observe before creation. Therefore, the emperor is always at peace when he is in a situation that is easy to inspect, and the ministers are safe when they are not in danger.
Now His Majesty is often good at paying attention to the beginning of things but neglecting to examine the results. Therefore, when officials at all levels handle affairs, they rarely worry about whether they will succeed or not. They use pretentious words to avoid the condemnation they are about to receive, so political affairs are not handled well.
If your Majesty can grasp the key points to rule his ministers, then the merits and demerits of the ministers will be reflected in the success or failure of political affairs, and it will be difficult to escape his rewards and punishments.
In this way, sins cannot be hidden and merits cannot be lost.
If the merits cannot be ignored, the worthy people will be encouraged; if the sins cannot be concealed, the mistakes will be reduced and they will be rectified day by day. This is the plan for governing the country.
I speculate that His Majesty's intention is to achieve perfection, but he is also afraid of mistakes in political affairs, so he pays careful attention to the beginning of things in order to ensure that there are no mistakes.
And because few of the many officials are competent, we do not entrust government affairs to them and would rather be busy all day long.
I think if you want to be perfect now, you should examine the results.
Why?
Because it is difficult to examine the results if you are good at the beginning.
Most officials are incompetent, so government affairs should be entrusted to them so that talented people can succeed and incompetent people can make mistakes.
If mistakes are made, his position can be abolished, and those who are successful can be further appointed. Then the wise can stay in official positions and work well, and the stupid people cannot occupy official positions and waste their salaries to harm political affairs.
If this is continued, the number of people who are qualified for the position will gradually increase. As time goes by, all departments will be able to obtain qualified talents.
Such assessment is an important task for government.
Now His Majesty does not rely on officials to achieve success, but plans the beginning of affairs together with many officials, making it difficult to distinguish between merit and guilt.
The people below cannot do full-time affairs and have not been in official positions for a long time, so it is difficult to distinguish between those who are able and those who are not.
How to examine them? Today's officials are definitely not all virtuous and talented people, nor are they all weak and incompetent.
But now I want to recommend a loyal and virtuous person, but I get no reward; I find an official who is incompetent and breaks the law. There is no punishment either.
Waiting until you are dismissed and retired, if you still think that you should not be doing it, it is not because you have no talent.
People who get promoted feel that it is just seniority and people's praise, not merit.
If this is not the case, then today's government affairs cannot satisfy the Holy Spirit, and creation is a verification.
Your Majesty has used the current laws and regulations to govern for nearly thirty years, but his achievements cannot be improved day by day. What is the reason?
The ancients said: If the harp and harp are out of tune, the strings must be changed.
Generally speaking, what I said is the norm of the political system, but the situations in ancient and modern times are different, and the things encountered are different.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
陛下纵未得尽仰成之理，都委务于下，至如今事应奏御者，蠲除不急，使要事得精可三分之二。
古者六卿分职，冢宰为师。
秦、汉已来，九列执事，丞相都总。
今尚书制断，诸卿奉成，于古制为重，事所不须，然今未能省并。
可出众事付外寺，使得专之，尚书为其都统，若丞相之为。
惟立法创制，死生之断，除名流徙，退免大事，及连度支之事，台乃奏处。
其余外官皆专断之，岁终台閤课功校簿而已。
此为九卿造创事始，断而行之，尚书书主，赏罚绳之，其势必愈考成司非而已。
于今亲掌者动受成于上，上之所失，不得复以罪下，岁终事功不建，不知所责也。
夫监司以法举罪，狱官案劾尽实，法吏据辞守文，大较虽同，然至于施用，监司与夫法狱体宜小异。
狱官唯实，法吏唯文，监司则欲举大而略小。
何则？
夫细过微阙，谬妄之失，此人情之所必有，而悉纠以法，则朝野无全人，此所谓欲理而反乱者也。
故善为政者纲举而网疏，纲举则所罗者广，网疏则小必漏，所罗者广则为政不苛，此为政之要也。
而自近世以来，为监司者，类大纲不振而微过必举。
微过不足以害政，举之则微而益乱；大纲不振，则豪强横肆，豪强横肆，则百姓失职矣，此错所急而倒所务之由也。
今宜令有司反所常之政，使天下可善化。
及此非难也，人主不善碎密之案，必责犯强举尤之奏，当以尽公，则害政之奸自然禽矣。
夫大奸犯政而乱兆庶之罪者，类出富强，而豪富者其力足惮，其货足欲，是以官长顾势而顿笔。
下吏纵奸，惧所司之不举，则谨密网以罗微罪。
使奏劾相接，状似尽公，而挠法不亮固已在其中矣。
translation: 
Even though His Majesty cannot find all possible ways to succeed and entrust all matters to his subordinates, he can eliminate the matters that should be reported to the public as not urgent matters, thus reducing the number of major matters by about one-third.
In ancient times, the six ministers were divided into different responsibilities, with the Chief of the Tombs at the head.
Since Qin Mo, Jiu Qing has been in charge of state affairs, with the prime minister as the general manager.
Now it is up to the minister to make the decision, and all departments must comply with it. This is more onerous than the ancient system. Some departments are not needed at all, but today they cannot be reduced and merged.
Many affairs can be divided and handed over to outer temples, so that they have exclusive power to manage them, and the ministers are in charge, just like the prime ministers in ancient times.
Only major matters such as establishing the legal system, making decisions about life and death, dismissing and banishing officials, dismissing and dismissing officials, as well as income and expenditures, etc., are handled by Taihe Shangzhuo.
The rest of the affairs will be decided by foreign officials, and at the end of the year, Taihe will inspect and calculate the merits.
In this way, it is created by Jiu Qing, implemented decisively, recorded and presided over by the minister, and rewarded and punished in accordance with the law. The result will inevitably be a better examination of achievements and the investigation of errors.
Nowadays, every move of those who carry out the work is under the command of the superiors. If the superiors make mistakes, they can no longer be blamed on the subordinates. At the end of the year, their performance will not be assessed or punished.
The supervisory department investigates the culprits according to the law, the prison officials investigate the facts according to the crime, and the law enforcement officials strictly abide by the law according to the lawsuit. Although the laws are the same, there are some small differences between the supervisory department and the prison officials in the implementation process.
Prison officers focus on facts, law officials focus on words, and supervisory departments want to list major mistakes and ignore minor mistakes.
Why?
Trivial mistakes and absurd shortcomings are commonplace for everyone, and if they are investigated in accordance with the law, there will be no one in the government and the public who does not make mistakes. This leads to the reason why the so-called governance actually makes the situation more chaotic.
Therefore, those who are good at government will grasp the outline and relax small crimes. If they grasp the outline, they will cover a wide range of things. If the laws and disciplines are lax, small mistakes will be ignored. If they cover a wide range, their politics will be lax. This is the key to politics.
However, since modern times, supervisory officials often do not grasp the outline but must investigate minor mistakes.
Minor mistakes are not enough to harm government affairs. If they are investigated, they will be severely tied up and become more chaotic; if the outline is weak, tyrants will run rampant and tyrants will run rampant, and tyrants will run rampant and wreak havoc, causing people to lose their jobs, which is the reason for confusion and confusion.
Now the relevant departments should be ordered to correct their usual ways of governing so that good education can be carried out in the world.
It is not difficult to achieve this level. If your Majesty does not like discrete and complicated cases, he will definitely order major cases to be reported to make officials do their best to serve the public. Then the treacherous ministers who harm the state will naturally be arrested.
Those who commit great crimes and violate the law and disturb the people are mostly motivated by pride, and the power of the powerful is enough to scare people, and the wealth is enough to do whatever they want, so officials are timid about his power and dare not report it.
The subordinates indulged in treachery, but they were afraid of being accused of being irresponsible in their duties, so they made minor mistakes.
The continuous impeachment proceedings make it appear that we are doing our best to serve the public, while the unfairness of disrupting the law is covered up.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
非徒无益于政体，清议乃由此而益伤。
古人有言曰： 君子之过，如日之蚀焉。
又曰： 过而能改 又曰 不贰过 。
凡此数者，皆是贤人君子不能无过之言也。
苟不至于害政，则皆天网之所漏；所犯在甚泰，然后王诛所必加，此举罪浅深之大例者也。
故君子得全美以善事，不善者必夷戮以警众，此为政诛赦之准式也。
何则？所谓贤人君子，苟不能无过，小疵不可以废其身，而辄绳以法，则愧于明时。
何则？
虽有所犯，轻重甚殊，于士君子之心受责不同而名不异者，故不轨之徒得引名自方，以惑众听，因名可乱，假力取直，故清议益伤也。
凡举过弹违，将以肃风论而整世教，今举小过，清议益穨。
是以圣人深识人情而达政体，故其称曰： 不以一眚掩大德。
又曰： 赦小过，举贤才。
又曰： 无求备于一人。
故冕而前旒，充纩塞耳，意在善恶之报必取其尤，然后简而不漏，大罪必诛，法禁易全也。
何则？
害法在犯尤，而谨搜微过，何异放兕豹于公路，而禁鼠盗于隅隙。
古人有言， 鈇钺不用而刀锯日弊，不可以为政 ，此言大事缓而小事急也。
时政所失，少有此类，陛下宜反而求之，乃得所务也。
夫权制不可以经常，政乖不可以守安，此言攻守之术异也。
百姓虽愚，望不虚生，必因时而发。
有因而发，则望不可夺；事变异前，则时不可违。
明圣达政，应赴之速，不及下车，故能动合事机，大得人情。
昔魏武帝分离天下，使人役居户，各在一方；既事势所须，且意有曲为，权假一时，以赴所务，非正典也。
然逡巡至今，积年未改，百姓虽身丁其困，而私怨不生，诚以三方未悉荡并，知时未可以求安息故也。
translation: 
Not only is it not beneficial to the political system, but it also creates more discussion about current affairs.
The ancients said: A gentleman's fault is like an eclipse of the sun.
He also said: There are mistakes but they can be corrected. He also said: Don’t make a second mistake.
These are all remarks about how even a wise man and a gentleman are not without faults.
If it does not cause harm to the country's affairs, it should be ignored by the law. If the mistake is too big, then the king's law will be dealt with. This is what I mean by how to deal with the severity of the crime.
A gentleman should preserve his reputation to engage in good governance, and bad people should be killed to warn others. This is the rule of killing or pardoning in government. Why?
The so-called wise men and gentlemen cannot be without faults. If they do not dismiss people for minor mistakes and bring them to justice at every turn, they will be ashamed of their sage.
Why?
Although they have made mistakes, the severity is very different. The punishment in the heart of the gentleman is different, but there is no difference in reputation. Therefore, the lawless people can use their reputation to compare themselves and confuse people. Therefore, it is even more detrimental to current political discussions.
Generally, the purpose of correcting and impeaching mistakes is to eliminate false accusations and rectify education. Now, correcting minor mistakes makes the Qing discussion even more decadent.
Therefore, the sage has a deep understanding of human feelings and a thorough understanding of political systems, so he said: Don't cover up your great virtues because of a small mistake.
He also said: Forgive minor offenses and promote talented people.
He also said: Don’t seek perfection from others.
Therefore, wearing a crown with a jade string in front of it and stuffing the ears with silk wadding means not listening to slander. The purpose is that the punishment for the wicked must be greater, and it should be simple but not omitted. Those who commit serious crimes will definitely be punished, so that the law and prohibitions can be easily completed.
Why?
To endanger the law is to commit a big crime, but to rigorously search for small faults. What is the difference between leaving jackals, tigers and leopards on the road and strictly prohibiting rats that steal things in the cracks of the wall?
The ancients said that if you give up the use of iron and often use swords and saws, you cannot serve politics. This means giving up big things and dealing with small things.
The mistakes in today's government affairs are somewhat similar. Your Majesty should do the opposite and do what you should do.
Expedient systems cannot be used for a long time, and perverse government affairs cannot be used to ensure security. This means that the methods of attack and defense are different.
Although the people are ignorant, their wishes will not arise out of thin air. They must arise at the right time.
If there is a reason for it, then this desire cannot be taken away; until things change, the opportunity cannot be defied.
The sage's way of governing is to deal with things quickly and not wait to get off the bus, so every move can be timely and win the hearts of the people.
In the past, Emperor Wu of Wei divided the country and ordered people to serve and live in one place. This was necessary for the situation, but it was also unsatisfactory. The power was only used for a while to deal with urgent matters, which was not a regular rule.
But it has been used to this day and has not been changed for many years. Although the people are suffering hardships, they do not have any personal grudges. This is really because they understand that the three parties have not yet settled and unified, and they know that peace cannot be achieved for the time being.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是以甘役如归，视险若夷。
至于平吴之日，天下怀静，而东南二方，六州郡兵，将士武吏，戍守江表，或给京城运漕，父南子北，室家分离，咸更不宁。
又不习水土，运役勤瘁，并有死亡之患，势不可久。
此宜大见处分，以副人望。
魏氏错役，亦应改旧。
此二者各尽其理，然黔首感恩怀德，讴吟乐生必十倍于今也。自董卓作乱以至今，近出百年，四海勤瘁，丁难极矣。
六合浑并，始于今日，兆庶思宁，非虚望也。
然古今异宜，所遇不同，诚亦未可以希遵在昔，放息马牛。然使受百役者不出其国，兵备待事其乡，实在可为。
纵复不得悉然为之，苟尽其理，可静三分之二，吏役可不出千里之内。
但如斯而已，天下所蒙已不訾矣。
政务多端，世事之未尽理者，难遍以疏举，振领总纲，要在三条。
凡政欲静，静在息役，息役在无为。
仓廪欲实，实在利农，利农在平籴。
为政欲著信，著信在简贤，简贤在官久。
官久非难也，连其班级，自非才宜，不得傍转以终其课，则事善矣。
平籴已有成制，其未备者可就周足，则谷积矣。
无为匪他，却功作之勤，抑似益而损之利。如斯而已，则天下静矣。
此三者既举，虽未足以厚化，然可以为安有余矣。
夫王者之利，在生天地自然之财，农是也。
所立为指于此，事诚有功益。
苟或妨农，皆务所息，此悉似益而损之谓也。
然今天下自有事所必须，不得止已，或用功甚少而所济至重。
目下为之，虽少有废，而计终已大益。
农官有十百之利，及有妨害，在始似如未急，终作大患，宜逆加功，以塞其渐。
如河、汴将合，沈莱苟善，则役不可息。
诸如此类，亦不得已已。
然事患缓急，权计轻重，自非近如此类，准以为率，乃可兴为，其余皆务在静息。
然能善算轻重，权审其宜，知可兴可废，甚难了也，自非上智远才，不干此任。
夫创业之美，勋在垂统，使夫后世蒙赖以安。
其为安也，虽昏犹明，虽愚若智。
济世功者，实在善化之为，要在静国。
translation: 
Therefore, serve willingly as if you were at home, and regard danger as peace.
When Wu was conquered, the world wanted peace, but in the southeast and southeast, the soldiers, soldiers and military officials from the six states were guarding the Yangtze River, or transporting supplies on the water for the capital. The father was in the south, the son was in the north, and the family was separated, and there was no peace.
They are not accustomed to the soil and water, and they often get sick and even die during transportation work. This situation cannot last long.
These things should be settled well to satisfy people's wishes.
Wei's people were intertwined, so the old law should also be reformed.
If the raindrops are done properly, the people will be ten times more grateful than today, and they will live a happy life. It has been nearly a hundred years since Dong Zhuo's rebellion until today. The world has been suffering from hard labor and the population has been extremely difficult.
The unification of the world began today. People miss peace, not just in vain.
However, ancient times and modern times are different, and the experiences are different. It is true that it is not possible to follow the ancient methods and exempt all people from service. However, it can indeed be done by keeping people who are subject to various types of labor from their respective areas and keeping soldiers in their respective hometowns.
Even if you can't do this for everyone, if you do it reasonably, you can calm two-thirds of the people, and you can serve thousands of miles.
By doing this, the benefits to people all over the world will be incalculable.
There are so many things about government affairs, and world affairs have not yet been managed well. It is difficult to list them all in the memorial. The key to outlining them is three points.
If you want political peace, peace lies in reducing labor, and reducing labor lies in governing without horses.
To make the warehouses full, we need to develop agriculture, and to benefit agriculture, we need to keep food prices down.
To be in government lies in affirming one's faith, and in affirming one's faith lies in selecting worthy persons, and in selecting worthy persons it is necessary to serve as an official for a long time.
It is not difficult to make officials serve as chiefs. Let them stay in office for a second term. If their talents are not suitable, do not let them be transferred to other officials, so that things can be done well.
Now there is a method to keep grain prices low, and those that are not yet complete can be supplemented and improved, so that grain can be saved.
There is no other way to cure by doing nothing, to lighten tedious toil, to suppress things that appear to be beneficial but are actually harmful. That's it, the world will be peaceful.
Once these three things are implemented, although it is not enough to educate people, it is more than enough to achieve peace.
The interests of the country lie in the natural wealth of heaven and earth, that is, agriculture.
The system established will be beneficial to agriculture.
If agriculture is hindered, everyone will specialize in plundering, which seems to be beneficial but is actually harmful.
But now there are things that must be done in the world, and we cannot stop. Some things take very little effort but have a great impact.
What I'm doing now is a little frivolous, but it will be of great benefit in the end.
The advantages of being an agricultural officer are tenfold and a hundred times greater, but they later become hindrances because some things may seem insignificant at the beginning, but eventually become serious troubles. Work should be done in reverse to block the development of such troubles.
Another example is that the Yellow River and Bian River are levied together, and Shenlai is under management. These labors cannot stop.
Things like this are also a last resort.
But things must be prioritized and weighed. If it is not of this kind, then use this as a criterion, and only then can you use labor, and the rest should be dedicated to peace and rest with the people.
But it is very difficult to be able to calculate the importance, weigh the pros and cons, and know what to build and what to waste. If you are not superior in intelligence and talent, you will not be competent.
The greatness of entrepreneurship lies in setting an example so that future generations can rely on it and find peace.
The peaceful situation, although it seems dark, is actually bright and wise.
Those who achieve great achievements in helping the world actually do a good job in enlightenment, which is fundamentally about making the country peaceful.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
至夫修饰宫署，凡诸作役务为恆伤过泰，不患不举，此将来所不须于陛下而自能者也。
至于仰蒙前绪，所凭日月者，实在遗风系人心，余烈匡幼弱，而今勤所不须，以伤所凭。
钧此二者，何务孰急，陛下少垂恩回虑，详择所安，则大理尽矣。
世之私议，窃比陛下于孝文。
臣以为圣德隆杀，将在乎后，不在当今。
何则？
陛下龙飞凤翔，应期践阼，有创业之勋矣。
扫灭强吴，奄征南海，又有之矣。
以天子之贵，而躬行布衣之所难，孝俭之德，冠于百王，又有之矣。
履宜无细，动成轨度，又有之矣。
若善当身之政，建籓屏之固，使晋代久长，后世仰瞻遗迹，校功考事，实与汤、武比隆，何孝文足云！
臣之此言，非臣下褒上虚美常辞，其事实然。
若所以资为安之理，或未尽善，则恐良史书勋，不得远尽弘美，甚可惜也。
然不可使夫知政之士得参圣虑，经年少久，终必有成。
愿陛下少察臣言。
又论肉刑，见《刑法志》。
诏答曰： 得表陈封国之制，宜如古典，任刑齐法，宜复肉刑，及六州将士之役，居职之宜，诸所陈闻，具知卿之乃心为国也。
动静数以闻。
元康初，从准南王允入朝。
会诛杨骏，颂屯卫殿中，其夜，诏以颂为三公尚书。
又上疏论律令事，为时论所美。
久之，转吏部尚书，建九班之制，欲令百官居职希迁，考课能否，明其赏罚。
贾郭专朝，仕者欲速，竟不施行。
及赵王伦之害张华也，颂哭之甚恸。
闻华子得逃，喜曰： 茂先，卿尚有种也！
translation: 
As for the construction of government offices, such tasks are often too extravagant. There is no need to worry about not doing these things. They will be done in the future without waiting for His Majesty's order.
As for inheriting the karma of the previous generation and relying on time, the reality is that the karma of the previous generation can win people's hearts, and their remaining karma can save the young and the weak. However, now they are diligent in unnecessary things, but they damage the things they rely on.
Let me make two points. If your Majesty gives a little thought to what matters need to be solved urgently and chooses the appropriate matters in detail, the world will be in good order.
Discussions in society privately compared His Majesty to Emperor Xiaowen.
I think the rise or fall of holiness depends on future generations, not today.
Why?
Your Majesty is like a dragon and a phoenix flying, ascending to the throne of God at the right time, and having great achievements in entrepreneurship.
The sweep wiped out the powerful Wu State, and soon conquered the South China Sea.
With the dignity of the emperor, he still considers the people, has the benevolence of filial piety and frugality, surpasses a hundred kings, and has this merit.
No matter how hard you work, every move must be in accordance with the law, and you have this kind of moral character.
If the state affairs during his reign were handled well and a solid feudal state was established, so that the Jin Dynasty could last forever, and future generations would admire his deeds and examine his achievements, then he could really be compared with Tang and Wu. How could Emperor Xiaowen be compared with your majesty?
What I said is not a compliment to Your Majesty, it is just the fact.
If you want to ask why this is so, or whether it was not done well, then I am afraid that excellent historians did not write it down well when recording their achievements, which is a great pity.
Education must involve those who understand government affairs to participate in His Majesty's plans. After the implementation takes a little longer, achievements will eventually be achieved.
I hope your Majesty will pay more attention to my remarks.
He also discussed his views on corporal punishment, which can be found in "Criminal Law Chronicles".
The imperial edict replied: "I have received Chen's memorial to establish the feudal state system. It should abide by the ancient regulations, use punishments in accordance with the law, and restore corporal punishment. It also talks about the battle of soldiers in the six states, the methods of serving as officials, etc. From all the articles in the memorial, I know that you are serving the country loyally."
Please report everything in the future if anything happens.
In the early years of Yuankang, Liu Yuan followed Sima Yun, the king of Huainan, to enter the court.
When Yang Jun was about to be executed, Liu Song was stationed in the guard palace. That night, an edict was issued to appoint Liu Song as the Minister of the Three Lords.
He also wrote a letter to discuss matters related to laws and regulations, and was praised by current commentaries.
Much later, he was transferred to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and set up a nine-class system. He wanted to make officials less likely to change their positions so that they could test their talents and have clear rewards and punishments.
At that time, Jia Guo was specialized in government affairs, and officials wanted to be promoted quickly, so this system could not be implemented in the end.
King Sima Lun of Zhao killed Zhang Hua and cried bitterly.
When he heard that Zhang Hua's son had escaped, he said happily: Mr. Mao, you still have descendants!


Chunk 14: 
original: 
伦党张林闻之，大怒，惮颂持正而不能害也。
孙秀等推崇伦功，宜加九锡，百僚莫敢异议。
颂独曰： 昔汉之锡魏，魏之锡晋，皆一时之用，非可通行。
今宗庙乂安，虽嬖后被退，势臣受诛，周勃诛诸吕而尊孝文，霍光废昌邑而奉孝宣，并无九锡之命。
违旧典而习权变，非先王之制。
九锡之议，请无所施。
张林积忿不已，以颂为张华之党，将害之。
孙秀曰： 诛张、裴已伤时望，不可复诛颂。
林乃止。
于是以颂为光禄大夫，门施行马。
寻病卒，使使者吊祭，赐钱二十万、朝服一具，谥曰贞。
中书侍郎刘沈议，颂当时少辈，应赠开府。
孙秀素恨之，不听。
颂无子，养弟和子雍早卒，更以雍弟诩子焉为嫡孙，袭封。
永康元年，诏以颂诛贾谧督摄众事有功，追封梁邹县侯，食邑千五百户。颂弟彪字仲雅，参安东军事。
伐吴，获张悌，累官积弩将军。
及武库火，彪建计断屋，得出诸宝器。
历荆州刺史。
次弟仲字世混，历黄门郎、荥阳太守，未之官，卒。
初，颂嫁女临淮陈矫，矫本刘氏子，与颂近亲，出养于姑，改姓陈氏。
中正刘友讥之，颂曰： 舜后姚虞、陈田本同根系，而世皆为婚，礼律不禁。
今与此同义，为婚可也。
友方欲列上，为陈骞所止，故得不劾。
颂问明法掾陈默、蔡畿曰： 乡里谁最屈？
二人俱云： 刘友屈。
颂作色呵之，畿曰： 友以私议冒犯明府为非，然乡里公论称屈。
友辟公府掾、尚书郎、黄沙御史。
李重字茂曾，江夏钟武人也。
父景，秦州刺史、都亭定侯。
重少好学，有文辞；早孤，与群弟居，以友爱著称。
弱冠为本国中正，逊让不行。
后为始平王文学，上疏陈九品曰： 先王议制，以时因革，因革之理，唯变所适。
translation: 
When Sima Lun's party member Zhang Lin heard about this, he was furious, but he was afraid that Sheng Feng was an upright person and could not assassinate him.
Sun Xiu and others praised Sima Lun's achievements and believed that Jiuxi should be added, and the officials did not dare to raise objections.
Only Xing Zuo said: In the past, nine tins were added to the droppings and nine tins were added to the cushions. They were only used temporarily and cannot be implemented as regular rituals.
Now that the ancestral temple is safe, even if the queen is deposed and the traitorous ministers who are in power are executed, in the past Zhou Bo killed Zhu Lu and honored Xiaowen, and Huo Guang abolished Changyi and honored Xiaowen, but they did not give Jiuxi his life.
It is not the system of the previous emperors to violate the old regulations and follow the system of the moment.
Please don’t implement Jiuxi’s suggestion.
Zhang Bing was very angry about this and believed that Liu Song was a member of Zhang Hua's party and was going to kill him.
Sun Xiu said: Killing Zhang Hua and Pei Ban has already hurt people's popularity, so we can't kill Liu Song again.
Zhang Lin gave up.
Then he appointed Luluo as the official Guanglu, and set up a horse parade in front of his official office.
Soon after he died of illness, the emperor sent someone to offer condolences and offered him 200,000 yuan and a court dress.
Liu Chen, the assistant minister of Zhongshu, reported that Liu Tan was the junior at that time and should be given as a gift to open the mansion.
Sun Xiuping always hated him and did not allow him.
Song had no children, and his son Liu Yong, who raised his younger brother Liu He, died early, and Xingli, the son of Liu Yong's younger brother Xingyi, was his legitimate grandson and inherited the title.
In the first year of Yongkang, an edict was issued to Liu Song for his meritorious service in taking charge of Pepsi when he killed Jia Mi. He was posthumously granted the title of Marquis of Liangzo County. Liu Biao, Liu Song's younger brother, who lived in the 1,500 households in the city, was given the courtesy name Zhongya to participate in the Andong military.
During the expedition to the county, Zhang Ti was captured and promoted to General Jinu many times.
When a fire broke out in the arsenal, Liu Biao came up with the idea to demolish the houses connected to the fire place and rescued many jewelry items.
He successively served as the governor of Jingzhou.
Liu Song's second brother Liu Zhong, also known as Shihun, served successively as Huang Menlang and Rongyang Prefect, but he died before taking office.
At first, Liu Song married his daughter to Chen Jiao from Linhuai. Chen Jiao was originally a descendant of the Liu family and was a close relative of Liu Song. She was adopted by his aunt's family and changed her surname to Chen.
Zhongzheng Liu You advised him on this matter. Liu Song said: After Shun, the surnames of Yao Yu, Chen Tian and others were originally from the same family, but intermarriage was inevitable for generations.
The same thing applies to my family now, intermarriage is allowed.
Liu Youzheng is thinking of writing a memorial. Stopped by sketch and therefore not impeached.
Liu Song asked Ming Fa, Chen Fu and Ji Zang, and said: "Who among the villagers is the most aggrieved?"
Both of them said: Liu You feels wronged.
He changed his temper and scolded them. Jiantang argued: Liu You was wrong to offend the Ming Dynasty because of his private discussion, but the public opinion of the villagers said that he was wronged.
Liu You was successively recruited into the positions of Duke Fu, Shangshu Lang, and Huangsha Yushi.
Li Chong, courtesy name Maozeng, was born in Zhongwu, Jiangxia.
His father, Li Jing, was the governor of Qinzhou and the Marquis of Dutingding.
Kui Zhong was studious and talented since childhood. He became an orphan in his early years and lived with his younger brothers. He was known for his friendship.
When he was twenty years old, he was appointed as the leader of the country. He was too humble to give in and refused to take office.
Later, in the literature of King Sisu, Shangshu stated that Jiupin said: The previous emperors established systems and changed them at any time. The reason for change is to make them suitable for the national conditions.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
九品始于丧乱，军中之政，诚非经国不刊之法也。
且其检防转碎，征刑失实，故朝野之论，佥谓驱动风俗，为弊已甚。
而至于议改，又以为疑。
臣以革法创制，当先尽开塞利害之理，举而错之，使体例大通而无否滞亦未易故也。
古者诸侯之治，分土有常，国有定主，人无异望，卿大夫世禄，仕无出位之思，臣无越境之交，上下体固，人德归厚。
秦反斯道，罢侯置守，风俗浅薄，自此来矣。
汉革其弊，斟酌周、秦，并建侯守，亦使分土有定，而牧司必各举贤，贡士任之乡议，事合圣典，比踪三代。
方今圣德之隆，光被四表，兆庶颙颙，欣睹太平。
然承魏氏凋弊之迹，人物播越，仕无常朝，人无定处，郎吏蓄于军府，豪右聚于都邑，事体驳错，与古不同。
谓九品既除，宜先开移徙，听相并就。
且明贡举之法，不滥于境外，则冠带之伦将不分而自均，即土断之实行矣。
又建树官司，功在简久。
阶级少，则人心定；久其事，则政化成而能否著，此三代所以直道而行也。
以为选例九等，当今之要，所宜施用也。
圣王知天下之难，常从事于其易，故寄隐括于闾伍，则邑屋皆为有司。
若任非所由，事非所核，则虽竭圣智，犹不足以赡其事。
由此而观，诚令二者既行，即人思反本，修之于乡，华竞自息，而礼让日隆矣。
迁太子舍人，转尚书郎。
时太中大夫恬和表陈便宜，称汉孔光、魏徐干等议，使王公已下制奴婢限数，及禁百姓卖田宅。
translation: 
The nine-grade system was first implemented during the period of chaos. It was a system in the army and was not a long-term method of governing the country.
In addition, inspections and precautions have become cumbersome and punishments are unrealistic. Therefore, discussions between the government and the public believe that the custom of the nine-level system has great disadvantages.
But when someone proposed changes, they hesitated.
I believe that when reforming laws and regulations to establish systems, we should first consider the pros and cons, and then implement them so that the overall system is accessible without obstacles and cannot be easily changed.
In ancient times, princes governed the country. There was a certain system for enfeoffing land. There were fixed princes in the feudal country. People had no undue desires. Ministers and officials enjoyed blessings and fortunes from generation to generation. Officials did not think beyond their own duties. Ministers did not have interactions beyond national borders. Ranks were fixed. People's morals were benevolent.
He did the opposite, abolished the princes and established county guards, and the customs became shallow. This is why.
The Han Dynasty reformed the shortcomings of the Qin Dynasty and established feudal states and counties with reference to the titanium and tai systems, so that there was a certain system for enfeoffing land. County and county officials must each recommend talents, and tribute officials must be based on the evaluation of their hometowns. Things they do are in line with the sage kings' canons and can be compared with the achievements of the three generations.
Today, the Holy Virtue is strong and the light shines in all directions. Hundreds of millions of people look up and see a peaceful and prosperous age.
However, following the decline of the Wei family, people and things were scattered, officials were not often in the court, people did not have fixed residences, the officials gathered in the military mansion, the powerful were concentrated in the capital, and things were mixed and chaotic, which was different from ancient times.
I think that once the nine-level system has been established, we should first move all levels and allow them to merge with each other.
Moreover, it is stated that the method of recommendation cannot be indiscriminate in recruiting people from abroad. In this way, officials can achieve a balance without having to separate them and implement them on the spot.
The official hierarchy system was also established. Its success lies in its simplicity and long-term implementation.
If there are few grades, people's hearts will be stable; if they work in a certain position for a long time, they will achieve good or bad achievements, so the three generations can go straight.
I believe that the selection of officials into nine grades as a rule is an important task today and should be implemented now.
The sage king knew that it was difficult to govern the world, and often used simple methods to govern, so he entrusted reclusive people in the countryside, so that every household looked like an official office.
If the appointment is improper and the affairs are inconsistent, then even if you use all your sage wisdom, you will not be able to get things done.
From this point of view, if these two points can be implemented, everyone will want to return to their profession, and people in the countryside will also cultivate virtues, the trend of luxury and competition will naturally stop, and the trend of courtesy and humility will become more prosperous day by day.
He was promoted to Prince Sheren and became Shangshu Lang.
At that time, Taizhong doctor Tian and Chen Shangbiao mentioned that Kong Guang, Wei Xudeng and others of the Han Dynasty had discussed that the princes and below should limit the number of slaves and maidservants, and prohibit the people from selling their fields, courtyards and houses.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
中书启可，属主者为条制。
重奏曰： 先王之制，士农工商有分，不迁其业，所以利用厚生，各肆其力也。
《周官》以土均之法，经其土地井田之制，而辨其五物九等贡赋之序，然后公私制定，率土均齐。
自秦立阡陌，建郡县，而斯制已没。
降及汉、魏，因循旧迹，王法所峻者，唯服物车器有贵贱之差，令不僭拟以乱尊卑耳。
至于奴婢私产，则实皆未尝曲为之立限也。
八年《己巳诏书》申明律令，诸士卒百工以上，所服乘皆不得违制。
若一县一岁之中，有违犯者三家，洛阳县十家已上，官长免。
如诏书之旨，法制已严。
今如和所陈而称光、干之议，此皆衰世逾侈，当时之患。
然盛汉之初不议其制，光等作而不行，非漏而不及，能而不用也。
盖以诸侯之轨既灭，而井田之制未复，则王者之法不得制人之私也。
人之田宅既无定限，则奴婢不宜偏制其数，惧徒为之法，实碎而难检。
方今圣明垂制，每尚简易，法禁已具，和表无施。
又司隶校尉石鉴奏，郁林太守介登役使所监，求召还；尚书荀恺以为远郡非人情所乐，奏登贬秩居官。
重驳曰： 臣闻立法无制，所以齐众检邪，非必曲寻事情，而理无所遗也。
故所滞者寡，而所济者众。
今如登郡比者多，若听其贬秩居官，动为准例，惧庸才负远，必有黩货之累，非所以肃清王化，辑宁殊域也。
臣愚以为宜听鉴所上，先召登还，且使体例有常，不为远近异制。
诏从之。
translation: 
Zhongshu thought it could be implemented and ordered the presiding officer to formulate regulations.
Li Zhong went to the memorial and said: The system of the former kings. Scholars, farmers, industry and merchants each had their own differences and did not change their occupations. Therefore, they made the best use of their materials and lived a prosperous life, and each did his or her best.
The method of equalizing land in "Zhou Guan" is to use the well-field system to manage land, distinguish the order of taxation of five items and nine grades, and then determine the public and private system, and the land in the world will be equalized.
Since the Qin Dynasty broke the boundaries of the well fields and established the system of counties and counties, this system has been disintegrated.
In the Mo and Wei Dynasties, the old system was still followed, and the only strict restrictions imposed by the national law were the differences between noble and humble in terms of clothes, utensils, vehicles, etc., so that people would not overstep and imitate and disturb the system of honor and inferiority.
As for slaves as private property, there are actually no restrictions on their use.
The "Ji Si Edict" of the eighth year has stated that the soldiers must have more than one hundred skills, and the clothes they wear and the chariots and horses they use must not violate the system.
If three families in a county violate this law in a year, more than ten families in Luoyang County violate the law in a year.
He was removed from the post of local magistrate. According to the imperial edict, the legal system is already very strict.
Now, as mentioned in Tianhe's memorial, Guang and Xu Qian's suggestions were too extravagant in the declining era and became a disaster at that time.
However, there was no such system in the early days of the Sheng Han Dynasty. Kong Guang and others proposed it but did not implement it. This is not because it was omitted but not implemented, but that it could be implemented but was not adopted.
This is because the feudal feudal system has been eliminated, but the well-field system has not been restored. In this way, the laws of the country cannot restrict people's private property.
Since there is no certain limit to people's fields and houses, then the number of slaves and slaves should not be limited. I am afraid that this is a futile decree that is trivial in practice and difficult to check.
Today, the Holy Son of Heaven rules the world, advocating simplicity and ease of implementation in everything, and all laws and prohibitions are complete. Please do not implement the above table.
Shi Jian, the lieutenant of Sili School, reported that Jie Deng, the prefect of Yulin, had been entrusted by the princes and kings, and requested that he be recalled. Xun Kai, the minister, believed that remote counties were not places that people wanted to go, so he petitioned to lower Jie Deng's rank and allow him to serve as an official in the original county.
Li Chong retorted and said: I heard that the legislation is not customized, and it is used to rectify everyone's picketing of evildoers. There is no need to investigate trivially and everything is omitted.
Therefore, few are hindered and many are helped.
Nowadays, there are many people like Jiedeng who serve as county governors. If he is allowed to be demoted and becomes a standard, I worry that people with mediocre talents will be corrupted and bribed when they serve in remote counties. This will not be a way to clean up the Qingming education and bring peace to remote areas.
I think we should listen to the memorial from the Shijiansuo and recall Jiedeng first, so that there are regular rules to abide by the national laws, and we should not implement different systems depending on the distance of the place.
The edict followed his advice.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
太熙初，迁廷尉平。
驳廷尉奏邯郸醉等，文多不载。
再迁中书郎，每大事及疑议，辄参以经典处决，多皆施行。
迁尚书吏部郎，务抑华竞，不通私谒，特留心隐逸，由是群才毕举。拔用北海西郭汤、琅邪刘珩、燕国霍原、冯翊吉谋等为秘书郎及诸王文学，故海内莫不归心。
时燕国中正刘沈举霍原为寒素，司徒府不从，沈又抗诣中书奏原，而中书复下司徒参论。
司徒左长史荀组以为： 寒素者，当谓门寒身素，无世祚之资。
原为列侯，显佩金紫，先为人间流通之事，晚乃务学，少长异业，年逾始立，草野之誉未洽，德礼无闻，不应寒素之目。
重奏曰： 案如《癸酉诏书》，廉让宜崇，浮竞宜黜。
其有履谦寒素靖恭求己者，应有以先之。
如诏书之旨，以二品系资，或失廉退之士，故开寒素以明尚德之举。
司徒总御人伦，实掌邦教，当务峻准评，以一风流。
然古之厉行高尚之士，或栖身岩穴，或隐迹丘园，或克己复礼，或耄期称道，出处默语，唯义所在。
未可以少长异操，疑其所守之美，而远同终始之责，非所谓拟人必于其伦之义也。
诚当考之于邦党之伦，审之于任举之主。
沈为中正，亲执铨衡。
陈原隐居求志，笃古好学，学不为利，行不要名，绝迹穷山，韫韣道艺，外无希世之容，内全遁逸之节，行成名立，搢绅慕之，委质受业者千里而应，有孙、孟之风，严、郑之操。
始举原，先谘侍中、领中书监华，前州大中正、后将军婴，河南尹轶。
去三年，诸州还朝，幽州刺史许猛特以原名闻，拟之西河，求加征聘。
如沈所列，州党之议既举，又刺史班诏表荐，如此而犹谓草野之誉未洽，德礼无闻，舍所征检之实，而无明理正辞，以夺沈所执。
且应二品，非所求备。
但原定志穷山，修述儒道，义在可嘉。
若遂抑替，将负幽邦之望，伤敦德之教。
如诏书所求之旨，应为二品。
诏从之。
translation: 
In the early years of Taixi, he was promoted to Weiping.
The refutation of Ting Wei, Handan Zui and others has many words but no records.
When he was promoted to Zhongshulang again, he would refer to the classics to handle every major event or questionable issue in the court, and most of them were implemented.
He was promoted to minister and official, resolutely suppressed extravagance and competition, did not receive private visitors, and paid special attention to the appointment of reclusive talents, so many talented people were promoted. He promoted and appointed Xi Denghai Xiguotang, Langye Liuheng, Yanguo Huoyuan, Feng Yishichen and others as secretaries and princes and kings of literature, so everyone in the world returned to his heart.
At that time, Liu Chen, the Zhongzhong of the State of Yan, recommended that Huo Yuan be promoted as Han Su, but the Situ Mansion disagreed. Liu Chen insisted on elevating Huo Yuan to Zhongshu, and Zhongshu sent the matter to the Situ Mansion for discussion.
Xun Sanzhen, the chief minister of Situ Zuo, said: The so-called cold should refer to people who are of humble and poor origin and have no qualifications of family origin.
Huo Yuan was a prince, with gold and purple. He did some popular things in society at first, and then devoted himself to study. When he was a child, he was different from when he grew up. He only established his reputation when he was older. However, he was not highly praised in the countryside, and his good virtues and etiquette were not heard. He should not be regarded as a poor family.
Li Chong went to the memorial and said: According to the "Edict of Guiyou", honesty and humility should be respected and flashy competition should be abolished.
Among them, there is a person who is humble and calls himself a poor person but is upright and modest in his demands. He should be appointed first.
According to the purpose of the edict, if the second rank is used as a qualification, people who are honest and willing to give in may be lost, so people from poor families are used to show their admiration for virtue.
Manager Situ selects talents and is actually in charge of national education. There should be strict evaluation standards to unify the ethos.
However, some of the virtuous people in ancient times lived in caves, some hid in hills and gardens, some required themselves to abide by etiquette, and some were known for their benevolence when they were old. They were taciturn in their actions and obeyed justice.
Just because his conduct is different when he is young and when he is an adult, we cannot doubt his existing virtues and force him to be consistent. This is not the principle of choosing a person based on his virtues.
But it is indeed necessary to examine him based on local conditions and investigate him from the person who recommended him.
Liu Chen is Zhongzheng and personally takes charge of the election.
He lived in seclusion in Huo Yuan and pursued his ambitions. He loved ancient customs and liked to study. He did not study for profit and did not seek fame for his actions. He hid in the mountains and hid his Taoist skills. He had no intention of pleasing the world externally. He maintained his secluded integrity internally and established a reputation for his virtues. All the gentry admired him. Students who devoted themselves to seek advice from him came from thousands of miles away. He had the style of his grandson Mencius and the integrity of Zheng Xuan.
Liu Chen first recommended Huo Yuan. He first consulted Zhang Hua, the official in charge of the imperial examination, Zhang Hua, the chief secretary of the Imperial Academy, Dazhongzheng of Qianzhou, General Ying of the rear, and Yin Yi of Henan.
Three years later, when officials from various states returned to the court, Xu Meng, the governor of Youzhou, specially recommended Huo Yuan's name to Xihe and asked for his recruitment.
As Liu Chen listed, the prefecture had recommended Ding, and the governor also recommended him. This also said that he had a bad reputation in the countryside, did not have good moral character, and abandoned the results of his trials and investigations. He also had no clear reason and righteous words, which made Liu Chen change his mind.
Moreover, recommending the second grade was not what he asked for.
However, Huo Yuan was determined and lived in seclusion in the mountains, practicing Confucianism and Taoism, which is commendable for his virtue and justice.
If it is not suppressed, it will disappoint the wishes of the people of Youzhou and harm the education of honesty and kindness.
According to the imperial edict, Huo Yuan should be promoted to the second rank.
The imperial edict was issued and he followed Liu Chen's advice.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
重与李毅同为吏部郎，时王戎为尚书，重以清尚见称，毅淹通有智识，虽二人操异，然俱处要职，戎以识会待之，各得其所。
毅字茂彦，旧史阙其行事。
于时内官重，外官轻，兼阶级繁多，重议之，见《百官志》。
又上疏曰： 凡山林避宠之士，虽违世背时，出处殊轨，而先王许之者，嘉其服膺高义也。
昔先帝患风流之弊，而思反纯朴，乃谘询朝众，搜求隐逸。
咸宁二年，始以太子中庶子征安定皇甫谧，四年又以博士征南安硃冲，太康元年，复以太子庶子征冲，虽皆以病疾不至，而朝野悦服。
陛下远迈先帝礼贤之旨，臣访冲州邑，言其虽年近耋耋，而志气克壮，耽道穷薮，老而弥新，操尚贞纯，所居成化，诚山栖耆德，足以表世笃俗者也。
臣以为宜垂圣恩，及其未没，显加优命。
时朝廷政乱，竟不能从。
出为行讨虏护军、平阳太守，崇德化，修学校，表笃行，拔贤能，清简无欲，正身率下，在职三年，弹黜四县。
弟嶷亡，表去官。
永康初，赵王伦用为相国左司马，以忧逼成疾而卒，时年四十八。
家贫，宅宇狭小，无殡敛之地，诏于典客署营丧。
追赠散骑常侍，谥曰成。
子式，有美名，官至侍中，咸和初卒。
史臣曰：子雅束发登朝，竭诚奉国，广陈封建，深中机宜，详辨刑名，该核政体。
虽文惭华婉，而理归切要。
游目西京，望贾谊而非远；眷言东国，顾郎顗而有余。
逮元康之间，贼臣专命，举朝战栗，苟避菹醢；颂以此时，忠鲠不挠，哭张公之非罪，拒赵王之妄锡，虽古遗直，何以尚兹。
translation: 
Li Chong and Li Yi were both ministers. At that time, Wang Rong was appointed minister. Li Chong was praised for his integrity and uprightness. Li Yi Botong was wise and talented. Although they had different moral integrity, they both held important positions. Wang Rong treated them as close friends and each benefited from their own strengths.
Li Yi's courtesy name is Maoyan, and his deeds are not recorded in history books.
At that time, internal officials had more power and external officials had less power. In addition, there were many official ranks. Li Duan discussed this disadvantage and found it in "Hundred Officials".
Another Shangshu said: Although all those who escape favor in the mountains and forests are against the current world and have different origins, the reason why the late king praised them is to praise their noble sentiments.
In the past, the late emperor was worried about the disadvantages of luxurious customs and wanted to return to simplicity, so he consulted the officials at court and searched for reclusive people.
In the second year of Xianning, Huang Fumi of Anding was conscripted as the concubine of the crown prince. In the fourth year, Zhu Chong of Nan'an was conferred as the doctor. In the first year of Taikang, Zhu Chong was conscripted as the concubine of the crown prince. Although they all claimed to be ill and did not take office, both the government and the public expressed their joy and sincere submission.
Now Your Majesty is carrying forward the purpose of honoring the late emperor and respecting the virtuous. I visited Zhu Chong's hometown. I said that although he was very old, he still had great ambitions. He studied Confucianism and Taoism carefully, and his virtues were renewed as he grew older. His morals were pure, and everyone in the place was taught by him. He was indeed a virtuous man who lived in seclusion in the mountains, and he could serve as an example to keep the customs honest.
I think we should declare divine grace and give him a gift of recognition before he dies.
The government was in chaos at the time and ultimately failed to obey.
Li Chong served as the Protector of the Expeditions and the Prefect of Pingyang. He respected moral education, built schools, commended those who were loyal, and promoted talents. He was honest, frugal and without desires. He set an example for his subordinates. During his three years in office, he impeached and removed officials from four counties.
After the death of his younger brother Li Yi, he resigned from his official post.
In the early years of Yongkang, King Sima Lun of Zhao appointed Li Chong as Prime Minister Zuo Sima. He died of illness at the age of forty-eight due to worry.
The family is poor, the house is small, and there is no place to collect the coffin. In the afternoon, the funeral is held at the Dianke Office.
As a posthumous gift, he became a regular attendant of Sanqi, and his name was Mi.
His son's name was Li Shi, who had a good reputation. He reached the rank of servant and died in the early years of Xianhe.
Shi Chen said: Ziya served as an official in the court when he was young. He devoted his loyalty and efforts to serving the country. He extensively discussed the establishment of feudal states, which was in line with the times. He discussed the names of punishments in detail, and everything he discussed was suitable for the political system.
Although the words are not gorgeous and graceful, they must be reasonable.
Compared with the people of the Xijing era, he was not far away from Maiyi; compared with the people of Shu State, he surpassed Lang Chan.
During the period of Yuankang, the rebellious ministers and thieves were busy with the affairs of the court. The whole court was shocked and everyone was in peace. At this time, Liu Song was still loyal and unyielding. He cried bitterly for Zhang Gong's innocence and refused to make extravagances to the king of Zhao. Even the upright and famous officials in ancient times could not do this.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
至于缘其私议，不平刘友，异夫憎而知善，举不避仇者欤！
李重言因革之理，驳田产之制，词惬事当，盖亹癖可观。
及锐志铨衡，留心隐逸，浚冲期之识会，岂虚也哉！
赞曰：刘颂刚直，义形于词。
自下摩上，彼实有之。
李重清雅，志乃无私。
推贤拔滞，嘉言在兹。
懋哉两哲，邦家之基。
translation: 
As for private discussion, I have an unfair view on Liu You. It is the same as hating someone but being able to praise his merits, and recommending people without avoiding enemies!
Li emphasized the principle of reform based on public opinion, refuted the system of land property, and his words were appropriate to the matter, all of which have merit.
How can it be false that he is determined to preside over the selection of officials, pays attention to recommending secluded sages, and treats Jun Chong as his confidant!
Praising: Liu Song was strong and upright, and his moral integrity was evident in his words.
He does have this virtue by working hard up and down.
Li Chong is honest, upright and selfless.
Recommend the virtuous and promote the reclusive, and good words and deeds will be reflected in him.
These two sages are the cornerstone of the country.


