Chunk 0: 
original: 
班氏之先，与楚同姓，令尹子文之后也。
子文初生，弃于瞢中，而虎乳之。
楚人谓乳 穀 ，谓虎 於菟 ，故名穀於菟，字子文。
楚人谓虎 班 ，其子以为号。
秦之灭楚，迁晋、代之间，因氏焉。
始皇之末，班壹避地于楼烦，致马、牛、羊数千群。
值汉初定，与民无禁，当孝惠、高后时，以财雄边，出入弋猎，旌旗鼓吹，年百余岁，以寿终，故北方多以 壹 为字者。
壹生孺。
孺为任侠，州郡歌之。
孺生长，官至上谷守。
长生回，以茂林为长子令。
回生况，举孝廉为郎，积功劳，至上河农都尉，大司农奏课连最，入为左曹越骑校尉。
translation: 
Ban's ancestors had the same surname as Chu and were descendants of Ling Yin Ziwen.
When Ziwen was born, he was abandoned in a field, and a tiger nursed him.
Chu people called breast-feeding "gu" and tigers "yuzhan", so they named it "guyugan" with the courtesy name Ziwen.
The people of Chu called the tiger "Ban", and his son named him "Ban".
The Qin State subtracted the Chu State and moved between the Jin State and the Dai State, so they took Ban as their surname.
In the last years of Qin Shihuang's reign, Ban Yi took refuge in Loufan and raised thousands of horses, cattle and sheep.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the state imposed no restrictions on the common people. During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, Banshi dominated the border areas with wealth, went out and hunted, fluttered flags, played drums and played loudly, and died at the age of more than a hundred years old. Therefore, many people in the north used "一" as the character.
Ban Ru, the son of Ban Yi.
Ban Ru was praised by people in this state and county for his chivalrous and righteous actions.
Ban Ru's son is the squad leader and the official is the prefect of Shanggu.
Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became the eldest son county magistrate due to his outstanding talents.
Ban Hui's son Ban Kuang was elected as Xiaolian and served as a Lang. He accumulated merits and was promoted to the rank of Captain of Henong. Da Sinong repeatedly wrote letters saying that he had high merits and entered the court as the captain of Zuo Caoyue's cavalry school.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
成帝之初，女为婕妤，致仕就第，资累千金，徒昌陵。
昌陵后罢，大臣名家皆占数于长安。
况生三子：伯、斿、稚。
伯少受《诗》于师丹。
大将军王凤荐伯宜劝学，召见宴昵殿，容貌甚丽，诵说有法，拜为中常侍。
时，上方乡学，郑宽中、张禹朝夕入说《尚书》、《论语》于金华殿中，诏伯受焉。
既通大义，又讲异同于许商，迁奉车都尉。
数年，金华之业绝，出与王、许子弟为群，在于绮襦纨绔之间，非其好也。
家本北边，志节慷慨，数求使匈奴。
河平中，单于来朝，上使伯持节迎于塞下。
会定襄大姓石、李群辈报怨，杀追捕吏，伯上状，因自请愿试守期月。
上遣侍中中郎将王舜驰传代伯护单于，并奉玺书印绶，即拜伯为定襄太守。
定襄闻伯素贵，年少，自请治剧，畏其下车作威，吏民竦息。
translation: 
In the early years when he became emperor, his daughter entered the palace as Jieyu. He retired and returned to his hometown. His family wealth reached a thousand gold and he moved to Changling.
Later, Changling was abolished, and all the ministers and famous officials there moved to Chang'an.
Ban Kuang has three sons: Banbo, Banbo and Banzhi.
Banbo studied the Book of Songs with Shi Dan when he was young.
The general Wang Feng recommended Banbo as a suitable attendant. The emperor summoned Banbo in the banquet hall. He was handsome, recited and preached very well, and he was worshiped as a regular attendant.
At that time, the emperor was keen on studying. Zheng Kuanzhong and Zhang Yu lectured on "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" in the Jinhua Palace every morning and evening. The emperor Shao ordered Banbo to study.
After understanding the righteousness, he discussed the similarities and differences with Xu Shang and was promoted to the captain of Fengche.
After the end of the year, the lecture activities in Jinhua Palace were suspended, and Ban Bo left the palace to associate with Wang and Xu's descendants. Living among the dandies was not his preference.
Because Ban's ancestral home was originally in the northern border, Ban Bo was born to be generous and generous, and repeatedly requested to be sent as an envoy to the Huns.
During the Heping period, Chanyu came to see him, and the emperor ordered Banbo to greet him at the foot of the fortress with amulets.
It happened that the Shi family and the Li family in Dingxiang area killed people because of their personal grievances, and also killed the officials who were chasing them. Banbo wrote a letter expressing his willingness to be temporarily appointed as the prefect of Dingxiang for a month.
The emperor sent his lieutenant general Wang Shun to come and escort Shanyu in place of Banbo. At the same time, he brought a seal and seal ribbon and appointed Banbo as the prefect of Dingxiang on the spot.
The people in Dingxiang heard that Banbo had always been of high status, was young, and had requested to govern this difficult-to-govern place. They were worried that he would use threats when he first arrived, and both officials and people were afraid of him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
伯至，请问耆老父祖故人有旧恩者，迎延满堂，日为供具，执子孔礼。
郡中益弛。
诸所宾礼皆名豪，怀恩醉酒，共谏伯宜颇摄录盗贼，具言本谋亡匿处。
伯曰： 是所望于父师矣。
乃召属县长吏，选精进掾史，分部收捕，及它隐伏，旬日尽得。
郡中震栗，咸称神明。
岁余，上征伯。
伯上书愿过故郡上父祖冢。
有诏，太守、都尉以下会。
因召宗族，各以亲疏加恩施，散数百金。
北州以为荣，长老纪焉。
道病中风，既至，以侍中光禄大夫养病，赏赐甚厚，数年未能起。
会许皇后废，班婕妤供养东宫，进侍者李平为婕妤，而赵飞燕为皇后，伯遂称笃。
久之，上出过临侯阳，伯惶恐，起视事。
translation: 
After Bamber arrived, he greeted the elderly and old friends who had friendships with his grandparents and fathers, invited them together, served them with food and wine every day, and treated them like descendants serving their elders.
As a result, the county's official affairs became even more chaotic.
Those who were treated as distinguished guests by Bamber were all local celebrities. They were grateful for Bamber's hospitality. After getting drunk, they all advised Bamber to arrest a large number of thieves and inform the thieves in detail where they planned to escape and hide.
Bamber said: That's what I want from you.
So he summoned the chief officials of each county, selected shrewd and capable secretaries, and divided into teams to search. Even the hidden thieves could not escape, and all the thieves were captured within ten days.
The people in the county were very shocked and praised the god Banbo.
A year later, the emperor summoned Bamber.
班伯上书说想绕道故郡到祖坟前祭奠。
The emperor came down to Shao, and the prefect and the captain greeted Ban Bo.
So he summoned his clan members, showed favor according to their proximity and distance, and distributed hundreds of gold.
People were proud of this, and the older people wrote down the deeds.
On the way to Beijing, he suffered a stroke. After entering the capital, he recuperated from his illness in the name of serving Dr. Guanglu. The emperor gave him a very generous reward, and he could not be used for many years.
At the time when Queen Xu was deposed, Ban Bo's nephew supported the palace, and Li Ping, the waiter, was Jieyu, and Zhao Feiyan was the queen, so Ban Bo claimed to be ill.
After a long time, the emperor went out of the palace to visit Bamber. Bamber was very frightened and got up to go to court to pay his respects.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
自大将军薨后，富平、定陵侯张放、淳于长等始爱幸，出为微行，行则同舆执辔；入侍禁中，设宴饮之会，及赵、李诸侍中皆引满举白，谈笑大噱。
时乘舆幄坐张画屏风，画纣醉踞妲己作长夜之乐。
上以伯新起，数目礼之，因顾指画而问伯： 纣为无道，至于是乎？
伯对曰： 《书》云 乃用妇人之言 ，何有踞肆于朝？
所谓众恶归之，不如是之甚者也。
上曰： 苟不若此，此图何戒？
伯曰：  沉湎于酒 ，微子所以告去也； 式号式呼 ，《大雅》所以流连也。
《诗》、《书》淫乱之戒，其原皆在于酒。
上乃喟然叹曰： 吾久不见班生，今日复闻谠言！
放等不怿，稍自引起更衣，因罢出。
时，长信庭林表适使来，闻见之。
translation: 
Since the death of General Wang Feng, Fuping Marquis Zhang Fang and Dingling Marquis Chun Yuchang began to be favored. If the emperor traveled incognito, he would sit in a carriage together and hold the reins of the horse; when he entered the palace, he would hold a banquet and drink, drink wildly with Zhao Feiyan, Li Ping and the servants, and talk and laugh loudly.
At that time, there was a painted screen placed in the tent of the carriage they were riding in. On it was a picture of Shang Zhou drunkenly relying on Daji to have fun all night long.
The emperor respected Banbo very much because he had just been appointed, so he turned around and pointed at the painting and asked Banbo: Shang Zhou was unethical, how could he reach this point?
Bamber replied: "Shangshu" says: "Listen to women's words. How can you indulge in such behavior in the court?"
As the saying goes, all evil must return to its homeland, nothing could be more extreme than this.
The emperor said: If this is not the case, what is the warning of this picture?
Bamber replied: Shang Zhou was addicted to wine, which was the reason why Wei Zi left him; the style calling was the reason why "Daya" lingered.
The origin of the sexual immorality warned against in the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents all lies in wine.
The emperor sighed and said, "I haven't seen Bansheng for a long time, and today I heard Zheng Zheng's words again!"
Zhang Fang and others were very unhappy. After a while, they took the opportunity to leave the palace under the pretext of going to the toilet.
At that time, Ting Linbiao of Changxin Palace sent people to see and hear these things.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
后上朝东宫，太后泣曰： 帝间颜色瘦黑，班侍中本大将军所举，宜宠异之，益求其比，以辅圣德。
宜遣富平侯且就国。
上曰： 诺。
车骑将军王音闻之，以风丞相御史奏富平侯罪过，上乃出放为边都尉。
后复证入，太后与上书曰： 前所道尚未效，富平侯反复来，其能默乎？
上谢曰： 请今奉诏。
是时，许商为少府，师丹为光禄大夫，上于是引商、丹入为光禄勋，伯迁水衡都尉，与两师并侍中，皆秩中二千石。
每朝东宫，常从；及有大政，俱使谕指于公卿。
上亦稍厌游宴，复修经书之业，太后甚悦。
丞相方进复奏，富平侯竟就国。
会伯病卒，年三十八，朝廷愍惜焉。
translation: 
Later, the emperor went to Shu Palace to see the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother cried and said: The Emperor's face has become thin and dark recently. The Ban Shizhong was originally recommended by the general, so you should favor him and bring him closer to you so that he can better assist your Majesty.
Instead, Marquis Fuping should be expelled from the court.
The emperor replied: Yes.
After Wang Yin, the chariot and cavalry general, heard about this, he suggested that the Prime Minister's imperial history had written about Fu Pinghou's crimes, so the emperor exiled Zhang Fang and made him a border captain.
Later, the emperor summoned Zhang Fang to the court again. The Queen Mother wrote to the emperor: What I said before has not yet worked. Today, Marquis Fuping has entered the court again. How can I remain silent?
The emperor apologized and said: Please allow me to carry out your will now.
At that time, Xu Shang was the Shaofu, and Shi Dan was the Guanglu Xun. The emperor then recruited Xu Shang and Shi Dan as Guanglu doctors. Banbo was promoted to Shuiheng Duwei, and together with the two teachers, he served in the middle school. Their salary was two thousand dan.
Whenever the emperor went to Shu Palace to see the Queen Mother, Banbo often followed him. When there were important events in the court, they were sent together to announce the emperor's intentions to the ministers.
The emperor also gradually became tired of entertainment and feasting, and started studying scriptures again. The queen mother was very happy.
Prime Minister Fang Jin wrote another letter, and Fu Qianhou Zhang Fang was eventually exiled from the court.
When Bamber died of illness at the age of thirty-eight, everyone in the court felt sympathy and regret.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
斿博学有俊材，左将军史丹举贤良方正，以对策为议郎，迁谏大夫、右曹中郎将，与刘向校秘书。
每奏事，斿以选受诏进读群书。
上器其能，赐以秘书之副。
时书不布，自东平思王以叔父求《太史公》、诸子书，大将军白不许。
语在《东平王传》斿亦早卒，有子曰嗣，显名当世。
稚少为黄门郎中常侍，方直自守。
成帝季年，立定陶王为太子，数遣中盾请问近臣，稚独不敢答。
哀帝即位，出稚为西河属国都尉，迁广平相。
王莽少与稚兄弟同列友善，兄事斿而弟畜稚。
斿之卒也，修緦麻，赙赗甚厚。
平帝即位，太后临朝，莽秉政，方欲文致太平，使使者分行风俗，采颂声，而稚无所上。
琅邪太守公孙闳言灾害于公府，大司空甄丰遣属驰至两郡讽吏民，而劾闳空造不详，稚绝嘉应，嫉害圣政，皆不道。
translation: 
Ban Zhen was knowledgeable and talented, and Shi Dan, the general on the left, promoted Ban Zhen as a virtuous and upright person. Ban Zhuan served as Yilang by responding to policy, and was promoted to the doctor of admonishment and the right Cao Zhonglang general. Together with Liu Xiang, he collated the secret collection of books.
Banbo often reported the matter of schooling, and was able to receive an imperial edict to study in front of the emperor.
The emperor valued his talent and rewarded him with a copy of the Book of Secrets.
At that time, the book could not be shown to the people. Even if King Shu Pingsi asked for "Tai Shi Gong" and the books of Zhu Zi in his uncle's honor, the general still told him that it was not possible.
See the "Biography of King Dongping" for details. Banbo also died young, and his son was named Bansi, who became famous in the world.
When Ban Zhi was young, he served as a regular attendant of Huangmen Langzhong. He was upright, upright and clean.
In his later years, Emperor Cheng made King Tao the crown prince and sent Zhongdun many times to ask his ministers for their opinions, but Ban Zhi did not dare to answer presumptuously.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he demoted Banzhi to the rank of captain of the Xihe vassal state and moved to the post of prime minister of Guangping.
When Wang Mang was young, he had a similar status to his brother Ban Zhi and had a friendly relationship. He treated Ban Bo like an elder brother and treated Ban Zhi like a younger brother.
After Banbo passed away, Wang Mang dressed in mourning clothes and sent rich funeral objects.
After Emperor Ping came to the throne, the Queen Mother came to the court to listen to the government, and Wang Mang presided over the government. He planned to bring peace to the world through culture and education, and sent envoys to various places to visit customs and collect carols, but Ban Zhi did not present any carols.
Gongsun Hong, the prefect of Langye, lectured about the disaster in the palace. The chief minister Zhenfeng sent his men to the two counties to persuade the officials and the people to talk about auspiciousness instead of disaster, and wrote a letter to impeach Gongsun Hong for fabricating ominous things.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太后曰： 不宣德美，宜与言灾害者异罚。
且后宫贤家，我所哀也。
闳独下狱诛。
稚惧，上书陈恩谢罪，愿归相印，入补延陵园郎，太后许焉。
食故禄终身。
由是班氏不显莽朝，亦不罹咎。
初，成帝性宽，进入直言，是以王音、翟方进等绳法举过，而刘向、杜邺、王章、朱云之徒肆意犯上，故自帝师安昌侯，诸舅大将军兄弟及公卿大夫、后宫外属史、许之家有贵宠者，莫不被文伤诋。
唯谷永尝言： 建始、河平之际，许、班之贵，倾动前朝，熏灼四方，赏赐无量，空虚内臧，女宠至极，不可尚矣；今之后起，无所不飨，仁倍于前。
永指以驳饥赵、李，亦无间云。
稚生彪。
彪字叔皮，幼与从兄嗣共游学，家有赐书，内足于财，好古之士自远方至，父党扬子云以下莫不造门。
translation: 
The Queen Mother said: Those who do not promote virtue should be treated differently from those who talk about disasters.
Moreover, Ban Zhi is a virtuous person, and I sympathize with her family.
Gongsun Hong was thrown into prison alone and executed.
Ban Zhi was greatly frightened and wrote a letter of gratitude and apology, expressing his willingness to return the seal and join the court as Yanlingyuan Lang. The Queen Mother agreed.
Spend your life enjoying your original salary.
Therefore, the Ban family was not prominent during Wang Mang's time, and there were no major disasters.
At first, Emperor Cheng was generous by nature and could listen to straightforward opinions, so Wang Yin, Zhai Fangjin and others discussed the emperor's faults according to the law, but Liu Xiang, Du Ye, Wang Zhang, Zhu Yun and others offended the emperor wantonly. Therefore, everyone from the emperor's teacher Anchanghou, the emperor's uncle, the generals, brothers, ministers, ministers, relatives in the harem, Shi, Xu and other families who were favored were slandered.
Only Gu Yong once said: At the time of Jianshi and Heping, the dignitaries of the Xu family and the Ban family moved the previous dynasty, showing off in all directions, and gave excessive rewards, which made the inner palace empty. The favor you have received has reached the limit, and it is impossible to exceed it. But now, the favor received by the rising family cannot even be enjoyed by God, and it is ten times higher than the favor received by the Ban and Xu family mentioned earlier.
What Gu Yong said was intended to ridicule the Zhao family and the Li family, and did not criticize the Ban family.
Ban Zhi's son is Ban Biao.
Ban Biao, also known as Shupi, studied with his cousin Ban Si since he was a child. Ban's family has books given by the emperor, and the family is rich in wealth. Many scholars come from far away, including Bai Yangxiong, a friend of his father's generation, who does not fail to visit him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
嗣虽修儒学，然贵老、严之术。
桓生欲借其书，嗣报曰： 若夫严子者，绝圣弃智，修生保真，清虚淡泊，归之自然，独师友造化，而不为世俗所役者也。
渔钓于一壑，则万物不奸其志，栖迟于一丘，则天下不易其乐。
不絓圣人之罔，不嗅骄君之饵，荡然肆志，谈者不得而名焉，故可贵也。
今吾子已贯仁谊之羁绊，系名声之缰锁，伏周、孔之轨躅，驰颜、闵之极挚，既系挛于世教矣，何用大道为自炫耀？
昔有学步于邯郸者，曾未得其仿佛，又复失其故步，遂匍匐而归耳！恐似此类，故不进。
嗣之行己持论如此。
叔皮唯圣人之道然后尽心焉。
年二十，遭王莽败，世祖即位于冀州。
translation: 
Although Ban Si studied Confucianism, he admired the learning of Lao and Zhuang.
Huan Sheng wanted to borrow his books, and the class heir replied: People like Zhuangzi abandon the sage and wisdom, practice life and maintain their true energy, are quiet and nihilistic, and do not pursue fame and fortune. They return all things to nature. They only influence each other between teachers and friends, and are not manipulated by worldly forces.
If he fishes in a mountain ravine, then nothing in the world will be able to interfere with his will; if he lives in seclusion in a small mountain, nothing in the world will be able to change his happiness.
Not bound by saints, not tempted by people's kings and nobles, letting one's body indulge one's own will, people who talk about it find it difficult to name it, so it is very precious.
Now that you have been bound by benevolence and righteousness, you have tied the shackles of fame, you have convinced Zhou Gong and Confucius, you have spread the essence of Yan Hui and Min Ziqian, and you have been restrained by secular education, why do you need to show off by following the great ways of Lao and Zhuang?
In the past, a man went to Handan to learn how to walk, but he didn't succeed. Instead, he forgot the original way of walking, so he had to crawl back!
I'm worried that you will do the same, so I won't lend you the book.
This is how Ban Si behaves and expresses his opinions. Ban Biao only devoted himself to the way of saints.
At the age of twenty, Emperor Guangwu ascended the throne in Jizhou when Wang Mang was reduced.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
时隗嚣据垄拥众，招辑英俊，而公孙述称帝于蜀汉，天下云扰，大者连州郡，小者据县邑。
嚣问彪曰： 往者周亡，战国并争，天下分裂，数世然后乃定，其抑者从横之事复起于今乎？
将承运迭兴在于一人也？愿先生论之。
对曰： 周之废兴与汉异。
昔周立爵五等，诸侯从政，本根既微，枝叶强大，故其末流有从横之事，其势然也。
汉家承秦之制，并立郡县，主有专己之威，臣无百年之柄。至于成帝，假借外家，哀、平短祚，国嗣三绝，危自上起，伤不及下。
故王氏之贵，倾擅朝廷，能窃号位，而不根于民。
是以即真之后，天下莫不引领而叹，十余年间，外内骚扰，远近俱发，假号云合，咸称刘氏，不谋而同辞。
方今雄桀带州城者，皆无七国世业之资。
translation: 
At that time, Kaixiao occupied Longxi and supported the people to stand up for themselves and recruit heroes. Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor in the Shu desert. The world was in chaos and the heroes were divided. The powerful ones connected prefectures and counties, and the smaller ones occupied counties.
Wei Xiao asked Ban Biao: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was destroyed, the Warring States Period was full of disputes, and the world was divided. It took several generations for the country to settle down. Could it be that the chaos of the Warring States Period would happen again today?
Will there be a person who will rise up to inherit the heavenly destiny? I hope sir can comment.
Ban Biao replied: The rise and fall of the Zhou Dynasty was different from that of the Han Dynasty.
At the beginning, the Zhou Dynasty established five levels of titles, allowing each vassal state to govern its own affairs. The royal family declined, while each vassal state became stronger and stronger. Therefore, in the last years of the Zhou Dynasty, disputes among the vassals occurred. Objective conditions determined all this.
The Han Dynasty inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty and established prefectures and counties. The emperor had autocratic authority, and ministers did not have the power of a century-old foundation. When he became emperor, his relatives had exclusive power. Emperors Ai and Ping were short-lived. The throne was not succeeded three times. The crisis appeared from above, but did not endanger the foundation.
Therefore, although the Wang family's dignitaries endangered the imperial court and could steal the throne and change the title of the country, they could not win the hearts of the people.
Therefore, after he ascended the throne, all the people in the world lamented the decline of the Han Dynasty. In the past ten years, due to external disturbances and internal troubles, various places had risen up one after another. People who founded the country were everywhere, claiming to be descendants of the Liu family, and they spoke the same words without any discussion.
The heroes who own the state and city today do not have the capital to inherit the foundation of the Seven Kingdoms from generation to generation. "Book of Songs."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
《诗》云： 皇矣上帝，临下有赫，鉴观四方，求民之莫。
今民皆讴吟思汉，乡仰刘氏，已可知矣。
嚣曰： 先生言周、汉之势，可也，至于但见愚民习识刘氏姓号之故，而谓汉家复兴，疏矣！
昔秦失其鹿，刘季逐而掎之，时民复知汉乎！
既感嚣言，又愍狂狡之不息，乃著《王命论》以救时难。
其辞曰：
昔在帝尧之禅曰： 咨尔舜，天之历数在尔躬。
舜亦以命禹。
泉于稷、契，咸佐唐、虞，光济四海，奕世载德，至于汤、武，而有天下。
虽其遭遇异时，禅代不同，至乎应天顺民，其揆一也。
是故刘氏承尧之祚，氏族之世，著乎《春秋》。
唐据火德，而汉绍之，始起沛泽，则神母夜号，以章赤帝之符，由是言之，帝王之祚，必有明圣显懿之德，丰功厚利积累之业，然后精诚通于神明，流泽加于生民，故能鬼神所福飨，天下所归往，未见运世无本，功德不纪，而得屈起在此位者也。
世俗见高祖兴于布衣，不达其故，以为适遭暴乱，得奋其剑，游说之士至比天下于逐鹿，幸捷而得之，不知神器有命，不可以智力求也。
translation: 
Daya. It is said in "Emperor": The great Heaven looks down on the world with great clarity, supervises all countries, asks for people's decisions and gives them.
Nowadays, the people sing songs and sigh longingly for the Han Dynasty, and it is clear that the people's hearts are towards the Han Dynasty.
Wei Xiao said: What you said about the situation of the Zhou and Han dynasties is very true. As for just seeing that the ignorant people are accustomed to the Liu family name, they think that the Han Dynasty can be revived. What you say is crude!
In the past, when the Qin Dynasty lost power, Liu Ji raised an army and conquered the world. How could the people know about the Han Dynasty at that time?
Ban Biao was deeply touched by Wei Xiao's words, and lamented that it was difficult to stop his crazy and violent behavior, so he wrote "The Theory of King's Mandate" to remedy the situation.
That article read:
When Emperor Yao abdicated, he said: Shun, destiny has destined you to be the heir to rule.
Shun also surrendered the world to Yu according to destiny.
As for Ji and Yi, they all assisted Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty. Their glory benefited people all over the world, and their virtues were passed down to future generations. As for Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, they controlled the world.
Although they lived in different eras and had different methods of changing dynasties, they all responded to the destiny of heaven and obeyed the people's wishes.
Therefore, the Liu family inherited the imperial lineage of Emperor Yao, and the Liu family has been famous in history books for generations.
Tang Yao was the Huode, and the Han Dynasty was also the Huode. He began to raise troops in Daze, Pei County. The goddess cried at night to show the Red Emperor's talisman. In this regard, the emperor's national rule must have the virtues of Mingsheng and Xianyi, and the foundation accumulated over the generations, and then be sincere and understanding to the gods, and the flowing water will be exerted on the people, so it can be protected by ghosts and gods, and the people of the world will come to join them. I have never seen a person who can rise to the throne without a certain foundation and whose merits are not recorded.
The worldly people saw the rise of Emperor Gaozu from a commoner, but they could not understand the truth. They thought that they could draw their swords and rise up in troubled times. The lobbyists even compared the fight for the sky to chasing wild deer. You can get it if you are lucky and quick. They don't know that the power of the emperor is destiny and cannot be obtained by using bright force.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
悲失！
此世所以多乱臣贼子者也。
若然者，岂徒暗于天道哉？又不睹之于人事矣！
夫饿馑流隶，饥寒道路，思有短褐之亵，儋石之畜，所愿不过一金，然终于转死沟壑。
何则？
贫穷亦有命也。
况乎天子之贵，四海之富，神明之祚，可得而妄处哉？
故虽遭罹厄会，窃其权柄，勇如信、布，强如梁、籍，咸如王莽，然卒润镬伏质，亨醢分裂，又况幺，尚不及数子，而欲暗奸天位者乎！
是故驽蹇之乘不聘千里之途，燕雀之畴不奋六翮之用，棁之材不荷梁之任，斗筲之子不秉帝王之重。
《易》曰 鼎折足，覆公餗 ，不胜其任也。
当秦之末，豪桀共推陈婴而王之，婴母止之曰： 自吾为子家妇，而世贫贱，卒富贵不祥，不如以兵属人，事成少受其刑，不成祸有所归。
translation: 
How sad!
This is exactly why there are so many rebellious officials and traitors in the world.
Like this, you are not only ignorant of the way of heaven, but also ignorant of human affairs.
Those hungry and homeless slaves, those who were wandering on the road due to hunger and cold, just wanted to have a piece of coarse clothing, a little food, and their biggest wish was just a piece of gold. However, they finally died in the ravine.
Why?
Poverty is also destiny.
What's more, how can the emperor's dignity, the wealth of the world, and the power of the gods be easily possessed?
Therefore, although he met the opportunity and secretly gained power, he was as brave as Han Xin and Ji Bu, as strong as Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji, and as smooth as Wang Mang, he was eventually cooked, beheaded, chopped into meat paste and his limbs were split. What's more, an unknown person, far inferior to the above-mentioned people, planned to seek the position of emperor.
Therefore, inferior horses cannot gallop thousands of miles, birds such as chaffinches cannot spread their wings and soar thousands of miles, rafts and thin materials cannot bear the heavy responsibility of pillars, and small people cannot preside over the great cause of the emperor.
"The Book of Changes" says that the tripod breaks its legs and spills the public food, saying that it is not qualified for its job.
At the end of the Qin Dynasty, the world's heroes elected Chen Ying as king. Chen Ying's mother dissuaded him and said: "Since I married into the Chen family, your family has been poor for generations. It is not auspicious to suddenly become rich. It is better to delegate military power to others. When things succeed, you can receive some favors from him. If things don't work out, others will be responsible for the disaster."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
婴从其言，而陈氏以宁。
王陵之母亦见项氏之必亡，而刘氏之将兴也。
是时，陵为汉将，而母获于楚，有汉使来，陵母见之，谓曰： 愿告吾子，汉王长者，必得天下，子谨事之，无有二心。
遂对汉使伏剑而死，以固勉陵。
其后果定于汉，陵为宰相，封侯。
夫以匹妇之明，犹能推事理之致，探祸福之机，而全宗祀于无穷，垂策书于春秋，而况大丈夫之事乎！
是故穷达有命，吉凶由人，婴母知废，陵母知兴，审此四者，帝王之分决矣。
盖在高祖，其兴也有五：一曰帝尧之苗裔，二曰体貌多奇异，三曰神武有征应，四曰宽明而仁恕，五曰知人善任使。
加之以信诚好谋，达于听受，见善如不及，用人如由己，从谏如顺流，趣时如响赴；当食吐哺，纳子房之策；拔足挥洗，揖郦生之说；寤戍卒之言，断怀土之情；高四皓之名，割肌肤之爱；举韩信于行陈，收陈平于亡命，英雄陈力，群策毕举：此高祖之大略，所以成帝业也。
translation: 
Chen Ying listened to his mother's words, and Chen was safe.
Wang Ling's mother also foresaw that the Xiang family would perish and the Liu family would prosper.
At that time, Wang Ling was a Han general, and his mother was captured by Chu. A Han envoy came to Chu land. After Wang Ling's mother saw him, she said to him: I hope you can tell my son that the King of Han has the spirit of an elder and will surely win the world. Let him serve the King of Han carefully and not have any second thoughts.
After speaking, he committed suicide in the face of Mo Shi to strengthen and encourage Wang Ling.
Later, the world really returned to the Han Dynasty, and Wang Ling became the prime minister and was granted the title of marquis.
With the intelligence and wisdom of ordinary people, they are able to deduce the subtleties of affairs and explore the key to misfortunes and blessings. They can also keep the family worry-free for generations to come, and their name will go down in history. Not to mention they act like men!
Therefore, poverty and enlightenment have their own destiny, and good fortune and misfortune lie in the individual! Chen Ying's mother understood the reason for decline, and Wang Ling's mother knew the reason for Xiao's rise. By examining these four points, the emperor's status can be judged.
As for Gaozu, there are five reasons for his rise: first, he is a descendant of Emperor Yao; second, his appearance is very strange; third, he is a powerful person with signs of an emperor; fourth, he is tolerant and tolerant; fifth, he is good at understanding people and making good use of them.
In addition, he treats people with integrity and likes strategies, is good at listening to other people's suggestions, and is afraid of not being able to catch up when he sees the advantages. He trusts others as much as he uses himself, adopts correct suggestions as naturally as mountains and rivers, and adapts to the current situation as smoothly as thousands of rivers returning to the sea. Before; imitating Zhou Gong's virtue of vomiting food, he was able to adopt Zhang Liang's strategy; he changed it by asking women to wash their feet while receiving visitors, so that they could hear Li Shiqi's lofty opinions; he adopted the advice of the soldier Liu Jing, cut off his nostalgia for his homeland, and settled in Chang'an. Admiring the reputation of the four reclusive old men, he reluctantly gave up their love and did not establish Mrs. Qi's master as the prince; he recruited Han Xin from ordinary soldiers and recruited Chen Ping from among the exiles. The heroes of the world tried their best and put forward many good strategies. This was all because Gaozu had great talent and broad strategies, so he became an emperor.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
若乃灵端符应，又可略闻矣。
初刘媪任高祖而梦与神遇，震电晦冥，有龙蛇之怪。
及其长而多灵，有异于众，是以王、武感物而折券，吕公睹形而进女；秦皇东游以厌其气，吕后望云而知所处；始受命则白蛇分，西入关则五星聚。
故淮阴、留侯谓之天授，非人力也。
历古今之得失，验行事之成败，稽帝王之世运，考五者之所谓，取舍不厌斯位，符端不同斯度，而苟昧于权利，越次妄据，外不量力，内不知命，则必丧保家之主，失天气之寿，遇折足之凶，伏鈇钺之诛。
英雄诚知觉寤，畏若祸戒，超然远览，渊然深识，收陵、婴之明分，绝信、布之觊觎，距逐鹿之瞽说，审神器之有授，毋贪不可几，为二母之所笑，则福祚流于子孙，天禄其永终矣。
知隗嚣终不寤，乃避地于河西。
河西大将军窦融嘉其美德，访问焉。
举茂材，为徐令，以病去官。
后数应三公之召。
仕不为禄，所如不合；学不为人，博而不俗；言不为华，述而不作。
translation: 
As for those auspicious and efficacious signs, I have probably heard about them.
At first, when she was pregnant with Emperor Gaozu, Liu Yu dreamed of intercourse with gods and men, thunder and lightning, dark clouds rolling, and strange things like dragons and snakes appearing.
When Gaozu grew up, he often had supernatural powers and was often different from ordinary people. Therefore, when Wang Lao and Wu Fu saw that Gaozu was possessed by a dragon when he was drunk, they wrote off all his wine debts. When Duke Lu saw Gaozu's strange appearance, he betrothed his daughter to him. Qin Shihuang stayed away in order to suppress the emperor's aura. Empress Lu knew where Gaozu was when she saw the clouds in the sky. When Emperor Gaozu was ordered to move to Lishan Road to slay the White Snake, and stationed in Guanzhong to the west, the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire and earth gathered together with Jingchen.
Therefore, both the Marquis of Huaiyin and the Marquis of Liu said that this was a gift from heaven, not a human effort.
Looking at the gains and losses of ancient and modern times, examining the success and failure of actions, examining the rise and fall of emperors in the past, and examining these five factors, if the choice is not commensurate with the status, the effective signs are different from this standard. If you are greedy for power and wealth, are uneasy about your duties and try to occupy a high position, do not know your own capabilities, and do not know the destiny, you will definitely not be able to protect your family, you will not be able to live a long life, you will encounter dangers as dangerous as a broken tripod, and you will be punished by being killed by iron.
The hero can truly understand this truth and wake up secretly. He is afraid of being condemned by heaven for his unreasonable actions. He has a far-sighted and thoughtful approach, and takes the approach of Wang Ling and Chen Ying who know their own duties, and eliminates the unreasonable actions of Han Xin and Yingbo to usurp the Han Dynasty. Think, if you don’t believe the lie that conquering the world can be achieved through conquest, understand that the emperor’s authority is naturally given by God, and don’t be greedy for things that are unattainable and be ridiculed by the two mothers Wang Ling and Chen Ying. This will extend the blessing to future generations and enjoy God-given blessings forever!
Knowing that Wei Xiao would never wake up, he fled to Hexi.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, appreciated his elegant conduct and went to visit him to discuss everything with him.
He was promoted to Maocai and served as Xu Ling, but he resigned from his official position because of illness.
After that, he was called upon by the Three Lords many times.
He is not careful about his salary when he is an official, so the place he goes to is not suitable for his purpose; his knowledge is not used by others, his knowledge is profound but not vulgar; his words are not flashy, and he talks but does not write.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
有子曰固，弱冠而孤，作《幽通之赋》，以致命遂志。
其辞曰：
系高顼之玄胄兮，氏中叶之炳灵，由凯风而蝉蜕兮，雄朔野以飏声。
皇十纪而鸿渐兮，有羽仪于上京。
巨滔天而泯夏兮，考遘愍以行谣，终保已而贻则兮，里上仁之所庐。
懿前烈之纯淑兮，穷与达其必济，咨孤矇之眇眇兮，将圮绝而罔阶，岂余身之足殉兮？
韪世业之可怀。
靖潜处以永思兮，经日月而弥远，匪党人之敢拾兮，庶斯言之不玷。
魂茕茕与神交兮，精诚发于宵寐，梦登山而迥眺兮，觌幽人之仿佛，揽葛藟而授余兮，眷峻谷曰勿隧。
昒昕寤而仰思兮，心蒙蒙犹未察，黄神邈而靡质兮，仪遗谶以臆对。
translation: 
Ban Biao had a son named Ban Gu. His father died when he was twenty years old. He wrote "Ode to You Tong" to express his aspirations by stating the good and bad fate.
The poem reads:
Ban Shifeng is a descendant of Zhuan Xiang. In the middle of his family's life, he showed great prominence in the Chu Kingdom. After the death of Chu, he left his homeland and became famous in the Jin and Dynasties in the north.
During the tenth reign of Emperor Mo, the officials were in high positions, and the banners and honor guards were displayed in the emperor's capital.
Wang Mang's crimes were so heinous that he almost killed the Han Dynasty. My father was in trouble and traveled far away, singing loudly. Finally, he saved himself and set an example for the people, escaping the evil like the benevolent people in ancient times.
The ancestors of Yimei were so virtuous and wise, and they were able to help the people even when they were poor. It's a pity that I have been alone since I was young. I am afraid that I will ruin my ancestral career and have no way to become famous. Am I not strong enough to pursue the career of my ancestors?
I deeply regret the decline of my family.
Living in seclusion in a secluded room is not enough for long thoughts. The years are long and my mind is far away. I dare not stand side by side with virtuous people and do good deeds. I am afraid of insulting my ancestors but stick to good deeds.
My heart and soul often intersect with the gods, and my sincerity often emerges in the middle of the night. In my sleep, I climbed the mountain and looked into the distance, as if I saw the god in the valley. He handed me the Gewan in his hand, and looked back at the valley to tell me not to fall into the abyss.
When I woke up in the morning, I lay on my back and meditated. My mind was hazy and I didn't know whether it would be good or bad. The Yellow Emperor is far away and I have no one to ask, so I can only make assumptions and guesses in my mind.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
曰乘高而神兮，道遐通而不迷，葛绵绵于樛木兮，咏《南风》以为绥，盖惴惴之临深兮，乃《二雅》之所祗。
既谇尔以吉象兮，又申之以炯戒：盍孟晋以迨群兮？辰倏忽其不再。
承灵训其虚徐兮，伫盘桓而且俟，惟天地之无穷兮，鲜生民之脢生。
纷屯亶与蹇连兮，何艰多而智寡！
上圣寤而后拔兮，岂群黎之所御！
昔卫叔之御昆兮，昆为寇而丧予。管弯弧欲毙雠兮，雠作后而成已。
变化故而相诡兮，孰云豫其终始！
雍造怨而先赏兮，丁繇惠而被戮，取吊于逌吉兮，王膺庆于所慼。
畔回冗其若兹兮，北叟颇识其倚伏。
translation: 
The book says that if you climb high and meet gods in a dream, you will be able to master Taoism without getting confused. Ge Wan is entangled in Zhimu, singing "South Wind" is a symbol of peace and happiness, and the fear in his heart is like facing the abyss, and he knows "The Book of Songs". The admonitions of two poems in "Xiaoya".
The dream has told me the symbol of auspiciousness, and the gods have given me warning. Why not join the officialdom as soon as possible to catch up with the wise men of the same generation? Time flies and will never come back again.
Although he has been warned by the gods and has doubts, he has been lingering for a long time and it is difficult to move forward. Only heaven and earth are long and infinite, and lonely life is so short.
There are many dangers in the complicated world, but there are too many difficulties and too little wisdom.
The ancient sages were able to wake up and extricate themselves when they encountered troubles, how could ordinary people prevent it in advance?
When Wei Shuwu held his hair to welcome his brother Cheng Gong, Cheng Gong instead shot him to death as an enemy.
Guan Zhong bent his bow to shoot Xiaobai, the enemy's son, but when Duke Huan came to the throne, he actually appointed him as prime minister. How unpredictable the changes of things are, who can predict its end and beginning!
Yong Chi was dissatisfied but was the first to be rewarded, Ding Gong showed kindness but was killed; Table Concubine caused disaster because of being favored, and Wang Tuzi gained luck because of sadness.
The world is so erratic, but the old man from Saibei is able to realize the truth that good and bad things depend on each other.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
单治里而外凋兮，张修襮而内逼，聿中和为庶几兮，颇与冉又不得。
溺招路以从已兮，谓孔氏犹未可，安慆々而不萉兮，卒陨身乎世祸，游圣门而靡救兮，顾覆醢其何处？
固行行其必凶兮，免盗乱为赖道；形气发于根柢兮，柯叶汇而灵茂。
恐网蜽之责景兮，庆未得其云已。
黎淳耀于高辛兮，羋强大于南汜；嬴取威于百仪兮，姜本支乎三止：既仁得其信然兮，卬天路而同轨。
东邻虐而歼仁兮，王合位乎三五；戎女烈而丧孝兮，伯徂归于龙虎：发还师以成性兮，重醉行而自耦。
《震》鳞漦于夏庭兮，匝三正而灭姬；《巽》羽化于宣官兮，弥五辟而成灾。
translation: 
Shan Bao regulates the five internal organs in the body but is injured by the tiger. Zhang Yi practices etiquette externally but develops internal fever and dies. Some people say that the golden mean can save people from disaster, but Yan Hui and Ran You are not satisfied.
Jie Yan tried to lure Zi Lu to follow him, but it was useless to talk about the Tao of Confucius.
Zilu did not avoid the troubled times and was finally killed in the troubled times. Although the door of the traveling sage has not been saved, even if it is covered with meat, what will it do? Being too strong will lead to danger, and avoiding disasters depends on the way of the saints; the vitality of all things originates from the roots, and only when the roots are strong can the branches and leaves flourish.
The monsters go so far as to blame the shadow, which is a manifestation of not having attained the great path.
When Chongli prospered in Gaoxin, the Chu State was strong along the Yangtze River; the Qin State was powerful among the six countries because of Boyi; the Qi State prospered because of the Three Rites. Seeking benevolence and gaining benevolence is so sincere. It is also the same principle to look up to the way of heaven.
Zhou of Shang brutally killed three benevolent people, and King Wu of Zhou became the emperor after winning five of them. Li Ji cruelly killed his filial son. Duke Wen of Jin traveled in the year of the dragon and returned in the year of the tiger. King Wu of Zhou returned to his army and finally fulfilled his destiny.
The dragon salivated in the court of Emperor Xia, and after three generations, the Kingdom of Zhou was overthrown. In the palace of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, a female chicken turned into a male, which eventually led to disaster after five lifetimes.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
道悠长而世短兮，敻冥默而不周，胥仍物而鬼诹兮，乃穷宙而达幽。
妫巢姜于孺筮兮，旦算祀于挈龟。
宣、曹兴败于下梦兮，鲁、卫名谥于铭谣。
妣聆呱而刻石兮，许相理而鞠条。
道混成而自然兮，术同原而分流。
神先心以定命兮，命随行以消息。
翰流迁其不济兮，故遭罹而赢缩。
三栾同于一体兮，虽移盈然不忒。
洞参差其纷错兮，斯众兆之所惑。
周、贾荡而贡愤兮，齐死生与祸福，抗爽言以矫情兮，信畏牺而忌服。
所贵圣人之至论兮，顺天性而断谊。
物有欲而不居兮，亦有恶而不避，守孔约而不贰兮，乃輶德而无累。
三仁殊而一致兮，夷、惠舛而齐声。
translation: 
The way of heaven is long, but the human world is short, and the distance is unknown. We must use divination to conspire with ghosts and gods, so as to understand the past and the present.
When Chen Wan was young, he learned through divination that he would occupy Qi in the future. There are records in history books that Duke Zhou used tortoise shells to predict fortune.
King Xuan of Zhou and Duke Cao Boyang foreshadowed their success and failure in their servants' dreams, while Duke Cheng of Lu and Duke Ling of Wei foreshadowed Mi Ming in their inscriptions.
Shu Xiang's mother heard Bo Shi's cries and knew that he was the one who lost the Jin Dynasty. Xu Fu could tell from the texture of Zhou Yafu's face that he would starve to death in the future.
The Tao is integrated and formed in nature. Although Taoism has different branches, its origin is the same.
Gods determine destiny before people's hearts, and destiny changes with people's actions.
Things in the world are like an endless stream, and life's misfortunes and blessings are met with gains and losses.
The three generations of the Le family are of the same origin, and although the changes have occurred from generation to generation, there is no lack of retribution.
He understands that the way of heaven is subtle and confusing, so everyone is confused.
Zhuang Zhou and Jia Yi had crazy and confusing ideas, and promoted the theory that life and death are equal to one disaster and one blessing. Talking loudly and going against one's true intentions is actually a fear of being a bull or a bird.
What is valuable is the wise sayings of saints, which are in line with nature and based on morality as the basis for decision-making.
Wealth and honor are what people want, but it is unethical and a gentleman would not dare to do so. Death is what people hate, but if you die because you abide by the Tao, you will not escape it. Observe the Tao without holding on to two ends. Set your mind to be light-hearted and not be burdened by material desires.
Although the three benevolent people acted in different ways, they were all committed to benevolence. Boyi and Liu Xiahui left and left differently but both gained a good reputation.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
木偃息以蕃魏兮，申重茧以存荆。
纪焚躬以卫上兮，晧颐志而弗营。
侯草木之区别兮，苟能实而必荣。
要没世而不朽兮，乃先民之所程。
观天罔之纮覆兮，实棐谌而相顺，谟先圣之大繇兮，亦邻德而助信。
虞《韶》美而仪凤兮，孔忘味于千载。
素文信而底麟兮，汉宾祚于异代。
精通灵而感物兮，神动气而入微。
养游睇而猿号兮，李虎发而石开。
非精诚其焉通兮，苟无实其孰信！
操末技犹必然兮，矧湛躬于道真！
登孔、颢而上下兮，纬群龙之所经，朝贞观而夕化兮，犹喧已而遗形，若胤彭而偕老兮，诉来哲以通情。
乱曰： 天造草昧，立性命兮，复心弘道，惟贤圣兮。
浑元运物，流不处兮，保身遗名，民之表兮。
舍生取谊，亦道用兮，忧伤夭物，忝莫痛兮！
昊尔太素，曷渝色兮？
尚粤其几，沦神城兮！
translation: 
Duan Qianmu protected the Wei State by living in peace, and Shen Baoxu saved the Chu State by wearing thick calluses on his feet.
Ji Xin burned himself to protect the emperor, and Sihao insisted on his integrity without being confused.
Even plants and trees are divided into categories. People who can practice the way of benevolence and righteousness will surely gain honor.
A person's reputation should be immortal after death. This is the right path followed by the sages.
Guantian.com is grand and inclusive. It actually assists integrity to protect kindness and seeks the way of the sages to save the world. A virtuous person will have like-minded friends, and an honest person will definitely get help from others.
The beautiful music of Yu Shun's "Shao" attracted the phoenix to come to court, and even after a hundred years, Confucius forgot to listen to it.
King Su's articles showed etiquette and attracted Qilin, and the Han Dynasty pursued him in different generations.
Spiritual energy and magical power can move all things, and divine movement can reach subtle realms.
The ape raised by Ji took up his bow and turned his eyes, then howled, Li Guang's arrow shot and the stone opened.
How can one communicate with spiritual objects without sincerity? Who would believe it if there is no actual effect!
If you have mastered a small skill such as Yashe, you can still sense the Saruishi, not to mention being obsessed with the Dao!
From Confucius and Taihao until today, there have been many sages and sages in the Jingwei Heavenly Way. It's okay to die in the morning and evening, or forget about discarding your body. If I can live as long as Peng Zu and Lao Dan, I will tell those who come to me to express my deep love for you.
Luan said: Heaven created all things in the darkness and determined their lives. Only sages can do this by restoring their original intention and promoting the great road.
The vitality of heaven and earth moves all things, flowing around without stopping, preserving itself and leaving a good name, and setting an example for the people.
It is a great shame and pain to sacrifice one's life for righteousness and practice the Tao, but to be sorrowful because of external things!
If you stick to the good path and are not stained by popular customs, how can your color change?
If you guard the road and lead to seclusion, you will be as good as a god!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
永平中为郎，典校秘书，专笃志于博学，以著述为业。
或讥以无功，又感东方朔、扬雄自谕以不遭苏、张、范、蔡之时，曾不折之以正道，明君子之所守，故聊复应焉。
其辞曰：
宾戏主人曰： 盖闻圣人有一定之论，列士有不易之分，亦云名而已矣。
故太上有立德，其次有立功。
夫德不得后身而特盛，功不得背时而独章，是以圣哲之治，栖栖皇皇，孔席不暧，墨突不黔。
由此言之，取舍者昔人之上务，著作者前列之余事耳。
今吾子幸游帝王之世，躬带冕之服，浮英华，湛道德，矕龙虎之文，旧矣。
卒不能摅首尾，奋翼鳞，振拔洿涂，跨腾风云，使见之者景骇，闻之者响震。
translation: 
During the Yongping period, Ban Gu was appointed as Lang and was responsible for collating the royal collection of books. He concentrated on erudition and made writing his career.
Some people ridiculed that this had no practical use. At the same time, they felt that Dongfang Shuo, Yang Xiong and others thought they had not encountered the era when Su Qin, Zhang Yi, Fan Ju, and Cai Ze lived, and did not use upright principles to convince the other party and show the integrity of a gentleman, so I would like to answer those scoffers.
That article read:
The guest laughed at the host and said: I heard that sages have unshakable words and magi have unchangeable duties, but they only respect reputation.
Therefore, the sage must establish virtue, and secondly, meritorious service.
Virtue will not flourish especially after death, and merit will not be revealed if it is not at the right time. Therefore, the saint's actions are busy, coming and going. Confucius could not wait until the mat was warm while sitting, and Mozi could not wait until the chimney was blackened when he lived in peace.
It can be inferred from this that the implementation of morality is the primary task of the sages, and writing is only a minor matter for the sages.
Now you are lucky enough to be born in the era of sage, wearing loose clothes and broad belt, having a good reputation externally, high moral cultivation internally, and having good literary talent for a long time.
But it never raises its head and tail, flaps its wings and flutters its scales, transcends the mud, and soars above the wind and clouds, making people frightened when they see the shadow and terrified when they hear the sound.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
徒乐枕经籍书，纡体衡门，上无所蒂，下无所根。
独摅意乎宇宙之外，锐思于豪芒之内，潜神默记，恒以年岁。
然而器不贾于当已，用不效于一世，虽驰辩如涛波，摛藻如春华，犹无益于殿最。
意者，且运朝夕之策，定合会之计，使存有显号，亡有美谥，不亦优乎？
主人逌尔而笑曰： 若宾之言，斯所谓见势利之华，暗道德之实，守突奥之荧烛，未仰天庭而睹白日也。
曩者王涂芜秽，周失其御，侯伯方轨，战国横骛，于是七雄虓阚，分裂诸夏，龙战而虎争。
游说之徒，风扬电激，并起而救之，其余猋飞景附，煜霅其间者，盖不可胜载，当此之时，搦朽摩钝，铅刀皆能一断，是故鲁连飞一矢而蹶千金，虞卿以顾眄而捐相印也。
translation: 
In vain, I indulge in the classics with my head on my head, my body on my back with books, and I am resigned to living in a dilapidated old house, with no one to refer to me and no one to rely on.
Only meditate freely on the universe, think carefully in the details, and concentrate on memorizing silently, year after year.
However, talents cannot be brought into play during their lifetime, and their functions cannot be contributed to the contemporary era. Even if vertical and horizontal debates are like turbulent waves, and extravagant rhetoric is like spring flowers blooming, it is still useless for evaluating political achievements.
After thinking about it, it is better to consider methods that can be effective quickly, and adopt methods that can win the appreciation of the government and the public, so that one can have a prominent reputation while alive and have a beautiful title after death. Isn't it smarter?
The host smiled leisurely and said: Like the guests' comments, it is exactly what they say: they only see the snobbish surface, but do not realize the efficacy of morality. They guard the weak light in the corner of the room and do not look up to see the brilliant sun in the sky.
In the past, the king's way was desolate, the Zhou Dynasty lost its royal power, the princes fought for hegemony, the nations competed, the seven heroes fought, the Central Plains was divided, and the dragons and tigers fought.
The lobbyists rushed around to lobby and rescue him, and the rest followed the princes like the wind, and the number of people who became famous for a while was even more numerous. At that time, everyone used their abilities, and the lead sword could be used. Therefore, Lu Zhong defeated the enemy with one arrow, accepted a large amount of gold and declined, and Yu Qing abandoned the phase in the blink of an eye.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
夫啾发投曲，感耳之声，合之律度，淫蛙而不可听者，非《韶》、《夏》之乐也；因势合变，偶时之会，风移俗易，乖忤而不可通者，非君子之法也。
及至从人合之，衡人散之，亡命漂说，羁旅骋辞，商鞅挟三术以钻孝公，李斯奋时务而要始皇，彼皆蹑风云之会，履颠沛之势，据徼乘邪以求一日之富贵，朝为荣华，夕而焦瘁，福不盈眦，祸溢于世，凶人且以自悔，况吉士而是赖乎！
且功不可以虚成，名不可以伪立，韩设辩以徼君，吕行诈以贾国。
《说难》既酋，其身乃囚；秦货既贵，厥宗亦隧。
是故仲尼抗浮云之志，孟轲养浩然之气，彼岂乐为迂阔哉？
道不可以贰也。
方今大汉洒扫群秽，夷险芟荒，廓帝纮，恢皇纲，基隆于羲、农，规广于黄、唐；其君天下也，炎之如日，威之如神，函之如海，养之如春。
是以六合之内，莫不同原共流，沐浴玄德，禀仰太和，枝附叶著，譬犹草木之殖山林，鸟鱼之毓川泽，得气者蕃滋，失时者苓落，参天地而施化，岂云人事之厚薄哉？
今子处皇世而论战国，耀所闻而疑所觌，欲从旄敦而度高乎泰山，怀氿滥而测深乎重渊，亦未至也。
宾曰： 若夫鞅、斯之伦，衰周之凶人，既闻命矣。
敢问上古之士，处身行道，辅世成名，可述于后者，默而已乎？
translation: 
The kind of songs that are sung casually and the pleasant sounds are, when measured by the standard of music, are lewd, frivolous and unpleasant to the ears. They are not music like "Shao" and "Xia";
As for those who unite the country, those who join forces break up the alliance, flee to other countries to talk, and wander in foreign countries with plausibility. Shang Yang, with his imperial way and tyranny, went to Qin Xiaogong, and Li Sigao talked about current affairs to please Qin Shihuang. They all took advantage of the favorable opportunity. In a turbulent situation, relying on luck and using magic to seek temporary wealth, it will flourish in the morning and wither in the evening. Before the wealth can be seen, disaster has already come. The gangster regrets it in vain, let alone the gentleman, how can he use these methods?
Moreover, achievements cannot be built by hypocrisy, and reputation cannot be established by fraud. Han Fei cleverly used excuses to please the monarch, and Lu Buwei used deception to buy power with money.
Chapters such as "Speaking of Difficulties" were written, and Han Fei was also imprisoned; after Qin came to the throne, Lu Buwei's family was also killed.
Therefore, Confucius promoted wealth as floating clouds and Meng Ke cultivated the most powerful righteousness. Are they happy to make pedantic remarks?
But because the right path cannot be doubted.
Now the Han Dynasty has purged the world and eliminated dangers and conquered all directions. Strengthening national discipline and carrying forward the imperial principles, the foundation is deeper than Fuxi and Shennong, and the scale is broader than Huangdi and Tang Yao; the Han Dynasty rules the world, shining on the people like the sun, monitoring the people like gods, tolerating the people like the sea, and nurturing the people like spring.
Therefore, in the whole world, there are no different people who come from the same source, bathe in the vast and far-reaching virtues, and enjoy peace and happiness, just like branches attached to trees and leaves attached to branches, just like grass and trees growing in mountains and forests, birds and fish living in mountains, rivers and swamps.
Now it is unreasonable for you to talk about the Warring States period while living in peace and prosperity. You are confused by rumors and doubt the facts you see. It is unreasonable to try to measure Mount Tai with the standard of a mound or to measure the abyss with the depth of a trickle.
The guest said: Shang Yang and Li Si are the bad guys who caused chaos during the weekend. I already know their fate.
I would venture to ask, did the ancient scholars, those who lived up to their standards, helped the world become famous, and were praised by future generations, spent their entire lives in silence?


