Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 5, 9, 18]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
班氏之先，与楚同姓，令尹子文之后也。
子文初生，弃于瞢中，而虎乳之。
楚人谓乳 穀 ，谓虎 於菟 ，故名穀於菟，字子文。
楚人谓虎 班 ，其子以为号。
秦之灭楚，迁晋、代之间，因氏焉。
始皇之末，班壹避地于楼烦，致马、牛、羊数千群。
值汉初定，与民无禁，当孝惠、高后时，以财雄边，出入弋猎，旌旗鼓吹，年百余岁，以寿终，故北方多以 壹 为字者。
壹生孺。
孺为任侠，州郡歌之。
孺生长，官至上谷守。
长生回，以茂林为长子令。
回生况，举孝廉为郎，积功劳，至上河农都尉，大司农奏课连最，入为左曹越骑校尉。
translation: 
Ban's ancestors had the same surname as Chu and were descendants of Ling Yin Ziwen.
When Ziwen was born, he was abandoned in a field, and a tiger nursed him.
Chu people called breast-feeding "gu" and tigers "yuzhan", so they named it "guyugan" with the courtesy name Ziwen.
The people of Chu called the tiger "Ban", and his son named him "Ban".
The Qin State subtracted the Chu State and moved between the Jin State and the Dai State, so they took Ban as their surname.
In the last years of Qin Shihuang's reign, Ban Yi took refuge in Loufan and raised thousands of horses, cattle and sheep.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the state imposed no restrictions on the common people. During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, Banshi dominated the border areas with wealth, went out and hunted, fluttered flags, played drums and played loudly, and died at the age of more than a hundred years old. Therefore, many people in the north used "一" as the character.
Ban Ru, the son of Ban Yi.
Ban Ru was praised by people in this state and county for his chivalrous and righteous actions.
Ban Ru's son is the squad leader and the official is the prefect of Shanggu.
Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became the eldest son county magistrate due to his outstanding talents.
Ban Hui's son Ban Kuang was elected as Xiaolian and served as a Lang. He accumulated merits and was promoted to the rank of Captain of Henong. Da Sinong repeatedly wrote letters saying that he had high merits and entered the court as the captain of Zuo Caoyue's cavalry school.

summary:
summary line 0: The Ban family, originally sharing the surname of Chu, descended from Ling Yin Ziwen. Ziwen, abandoned as an infant, was nursed by a tiger, leading to his name "Guyugan" from Chu words for nursing and tiger. The tiger was called "Ban," and his son adopted this as their surname. After Qin conquered Chu, the family moved between Jin and Dai, taking Ban as their surname. During the late Qin, Ban Yi fled to Loufan, amassing livestock. In early Han, the Bans dominated border areas with wealth, hunting and living lavishly, with Ban Yi living over a hundred years.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
成帝之初，女为婕妤，致仕就第，资累千金，徒昌陵。
昌陵后罢，大臣名家皆占数于长安。
况生三子：伯、斿、稚。
伯少受《诗》于师丹。
大将军王凤荐伯宜劝学，召见宴昵殿，容貌甚丽，诵说有法，拜为中常侍。
时，上方乡学，郑宽中、张禹朝夕入说《尚书》、《论语》于金华殿中，诏伯受焉。
既通大义，又讲异同于许商，迁奉车都尉。
数年，金华之业绝，出与王、许子弟为群，在于绮襦纨绔之间，非其好也。
家本北边，志节慷慨，数求使匈奴。
河平中，单于来朝，上使伯持节迎于塞下。
会定襄大姓石、李群辈报怨，杀追捕吏，伯上状，因自请愿试守期月。
上遣侍中中郎将王舜驰传代伯护单于，并奉玺书印绶，即拜伯为定襄太守。
定襄闻伯素贵，年少，自请治剧，畏其下车作威，吏民竦息。
translation: 
In the early years when he became emperor, his daughter entered the palace as Jieyu. He retired and returned to his hometown. His family wealth reached a thousand gold and he moved to Changling.
Later, Changling was abolished, and all the ministers and famous officials there moved to Chang'an.
Ban Kuang has three sons: Banbo, Banbo and Banzhi.
Banbo studied the Book of Songs with Shi Dan when he was young.
The general Wang Feng recommended Banbo as a suitable attendant. The emperor summoned Banbo in the banquet hall. He was handsome, recited and preached very well, and he was worshiped as a regular attendant.
At that time, the emperor was keen on studying. Zheng Kuanzhong and Zhang Yu lectured on "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" in the Jinhua Palace every morning and evening. The emperor Shao ordered Banbo to study.
After understanding the righteousness, he discussed the similarities and differences with Xu Shang and was promoted to the captain of Fengche.
After the end of the year, the lecture activities in Jinhua Palace were suspended, and Ban Bo left the palace to associate with Wang and Xu's descendants. Living among the dandies was not his preference.
Because Ban's ancestral home was originally in the northern border, Ban Bo was born to be generous and generous, and repeatedly requested to be sent as an envoy to the Huns.
During the Heping period, Chanyu came to see him, and the emperor ordered Banbo to greet him at the foot of the fortress with amulets.
It happened that the Shi family and the Li family in Dingxiang area killed people because of their personal grievances, and also killed the officials who were chasing them. Banbo wrote a letter expressing his willingness to be temporarily appointed as the prefect of Dingxiang for a month.
The emperor sent his lieutenant general Wang Shun to come and escort Shanyu in place of Banbo. At the same time, he brought a seal and seal ribbon and appointed Banbo as the prefect of Dingxiang on the spot.
The people in Dingxiang heard that Banbo had always been of high status, was young, and had requested to govern this difficult-to-govern place. They were worried that he would use threats when he first arrived, and both officials and people were afraid of him.

summary:
summary line 1: Ban Yi's son, Ban Ru, was praised for chivalry. His son, the squad leader, became Shanggu Prefect. Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became a county magistrate. Ban Kuang, Ban Hui's son, served as a Lang and rose to Captain of Henong, later retiring with wealth to Changling. He had three sons: Banbo, Banbo, and Banzhi. Banbo studied the Book of Songs, was recommended as an attendant, and became a regular attendant. He lectured on classics, was promoted to Fengche Captain, and later requested to govern Dingxiang, where he captured all thieves within ten days. He was summoned back, suffered a stroke, and died at thirty-eight.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
斿博学有俊材，左将军史丹举贤良方正，以对策为议郎，迁谏大夫、右曹中郎将，与刘向校秘书。
每奏事，斿以选受诏进读群书。
上器其能，赐以秘书之副。
时书不布，自东平思王以叔父求《太史公》、诸子书，大将军白不许。
语在《东平王传》斿亦早卒，有子曰嗣，显名当世。
稚少为黄门郎中常侍，方直自守。
成帝季年，立定陶王为太子，数遣中盾请问近臣，稚独不敢答。
哀帝即位，出稚为西河属国都尉，迁广平相。
王莽少与稚兄弟同列友善，兄事斿而弟畜稚。
斿之卒也，修緦麻，赙赗甚厚。
平帝即位，太后临朝，莽秉政，方欲文致太平，使使者分行风俗，采颂声，而稚无所上。
琅邪太守公孙闳言灾害于公府，大司空甄丰遣属驰至两郡讽吏民，而劾闳空造不详，稚绝嘉应，嫉害圣政，皆不道。
translation: 
Ban Zhen was knowledgeable and talented, and Shi Dan, the general on the left, promoted Ban Zhen as a virtuous and upright person. Ban Zhuan served as Yilang by responding to policy, and was promoted to the doctor of admonishment and the right Cao Zhonglang general. Together with Liu Xiang, he collated the secret collection of books.
Banbo often reported the matter of schooling, and was able to receive an imperial edict to study in front of the emperor.
The emperor valued his talent and rewarded him with a copy of the Book of Secrets.
At that time, the book could not be shown to the people. Even if King Shu Pingsi asked for "Tai Shi Gong" and the books of Zhu Zi in his uncle's honor, the general still told him that it was not possible.
See the "Biography of King Dongping" for details. Banbo also died young, and his son was named Bansi, who became famous in the world.
When Ban Zhi was young, he served as a regular attendant of Huangmen Langzhong. He was upright, upright and clean.
In his later years, Emperor Cheng made King Tao the crown prince and sent Zhongdun many times to ask his ministers for their opinions, but Ban Zhi did not dare to answer presumptuously.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he demoted Banzhi to the rank of captain of the Xihe vassal state and moved to the post of prime minister of Guangping.
When Wang Mang was young, he had a similar status to his brother Ban Zhi and had a friendly relationship. He treated Ban Bo like an elder brother and treated Ban Zhi like a younger brother.
After Banbo passed away, Wang Mang dressed in mourning clothes and sent rich funeral objects.
After Emperor Ping came to the throne, the Queen Mother came to the court to listen to the government, and Wang Mang presided over the government. He planned to bring peace to the world through culture and education, and sent envoys to various places to visit customs and collect carols, but Ban Zhi did not present any carols.
Gongsun Hong, the prefect of Langye, lectured about the disaster in the palace. The chief minister Zhenfeng sent his men to the two counties to persuade the officials and the people to talk about auspiciousness instead of disaster, and wrote a letter to impeach Gongsun Hong for fabricating ominous things.

summary:
summary line 2: Ban Zhen, knowledgeable and talented, served as Yilang and collated books. Ban Zhi, upright and clean, served as Huangmen Langzhong. During Wang Mang's rise, Ban Zhi avoided presenting carols, and the Ban family remained uninfluential but safe. Ban Zhi's son, Ban Biao, studied with his cousin Ban Si. Ban Si, a Confucian who admired Lao-Zhuang, refused to lend books, fearing Ban Biao would lose his way. Ban Biao devoted himself to sage teachings.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
《诗》云： 皇矣上帝，临下有赫，鉴观四方，求民之莫。
今民皆讴吟思汉，乡仰刘氏，已可知矣。
嚣曰： 先生言周、汉之势，可也，至于但见愚民习识刘氏姓号之故，而谓汉家复兴，疏矣！
昔秦失其鹿，刘季逐而掎之，时民复知汉乎！
既感嚣言，又愍狂狡之不息，乃著《王命论》以救时难。
其辞曰：
昔在帝尧之禅曰： 咨尔舜，天之历数在尔躬。
舜亦以命禹。
泉于稷、契，咸佐唐、虞，光济四海，奕世载德，至于汤、武，而有天下。
虽其遭遇异时，禅代不同，至乎应天顺民，其揆一也。
是故刘氏承尧之祚，氏族之世，著乎《春秋》。
唐据火德，而汉绍之，始起沛泽，则神母夜号，以章赤帝之符，由是言之，帝王之祚，必有明圣显懿之德，丰功厚利积累之业，然后精诚通于神明，流泽加于生民，故能鬼神所福飨，天下所归往，未见运世无本，功德不纪，而得屈起在此位者也。
世俗见高祖兴于布衣，不达其故，以为适遭暴乱，得奋其剑，游说之士至比天下于逐鹿，幸捷而得之，不知神器有命，不可以智力求也。
translation: 
Daya. It is said in "Emperor": The great Heaven looks down on the world with great clarity, supervises all countries, asks for people's decisions and gives them.
Nowadays, the people sing songs and sigh longingly for the Han Dynasty, and it is clear that the people's hearts are towards the Han Dynasty.
Wei Xiao said: What you said about the situation of the Zhou and Han dynasties is very true. As for just seeing that the ignorant people are accustomed to the Liu family name, they think that the Han Dynasty can be revived. What you say is crude!
In the past, when the Qin Dynasty lost power, Liu Ji raised an army and conquered the world. How could the people know about the Han Dynasty at that time?
Ban Biao was deeply touched by Wei Xiao's words, and lamented that it was difficult to stop his crazy and violent behavior, so he wrote "The Theory of King's Mandate" to remedy the situation.
That article read:
When Emperor Yao abdicated, he said: Shun, destiny has destined you to be the heir to rule.
Shun also surrendered the world to Yu according to destiny.
As for Ji and Yi, they all assisted Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty. Their glory benefited people all over the world, and their virtues were passed down to future generations. As for Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, they controlled the world.
Although they lived in different eras and had different methods of changing dynasties, they all responded to the destiny of heaven and obeyed the people's wishes.
Therefore, the Liu family inherited the imperial lineage of Emperor Yao, and the Liu family has been famous in history books for generations.
Tang Yao was the Huode, and the Han Dynasty was also the Huode. He began to raise troops in Daze, Pei County. The goddess cried at night to show the Red Emperor's talisman. In this regard, the emperor's national rule must have the virtues of Mingsheng and Xianyi, and the foundation accumulated over the generations, and then be sincere and understanding to the gods, and the flowing water will be exerted on the people, so it can be protected by ghosts and gods, and the people of the world will come to join them. I have never seen a person who can rise to the throne without a certain foundation and whose merits are not recorded.
The worldly people saw the rise of Emperor Gaozu from a commoner, but they could not understand the truth. They thought that they could draw their swords and rise up in troubled times. The lobbyists even compared the fight for the sky to chasing wild deer. You can get it if you are lucky and quick. They don't know that the power of the emperor is destiny and cannot be obtained by using bright force.

summary:
summary line 3: During the chaos of Wang Mang's fall, Wei Xiao asked Ban Biao about the likelihood of another Warring States period. Ban Biao argued that the Han dynasty's centralized system prevented such fragmentation, and the people's hearts remained with Han. He wrote "The Theory of King's Mandate," asserting that the Liu family's rise was destined by heaven, not human effort. He fled to Hexi, where Dou Rong admired him. Ban Biao had a son, Ban Gu, who wrote "Ode to You Tong" to express his aspirations.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
永平中为郎，典校秘书，专笃志于博学，以著述为业。
或讥以无功，又感东方朔、扬雄自谕以不遭苏、张、范、蔡之时，曾不折之以正道，明君子之所守，故聊复应焉。
其辞曰：
宾戏主人曰： 盖闻圣人有一定之论，列士有不易之分，亦云名而已矣。
故太上有立德，其次有立功。
夫德不得后身而特盛，功不得背时而独章，是以圣哲之治，栖栖皇皇，孔席不暧，墨突不黔。
由此言之，取舍者昔人之上务，著作者前列之余事耳。
今吾子幸游帝王之世，躬带冕之服，浮英华，湛道德，矕龙虎之文，旧矣。
卒不能摅首尾，奋翼鳞，振拔洿涂，跨腾风云，使见之者景骇，闻之者响震。
translation: 
During the Yongping period, Ban Gu was appointed as Lang and was responsible for collating the royal collection of books. He concentrated on erudition and made writing his career.
Some people ridiculed that this had no practical use. At the same time, they felt that Dongfang Shuo, Yang Xiong and others thought they had not encountered the era when Su Qin, Zhang Yi, Fan Ju, and Cai Ze lived, and did not use upright principles to convince the other party and show the integrity of a gentleman, so I would like to answer those scoffers.
That article read:
The guest laughed at the host and said: I heard that sages have unshakable words and magi have unchangeable duties, but they only respect reputation.
Therefore, the sage must establish virtue, and secondly, meritorious service.
Virtue will not flourish especially after death, and merit will not be revealed if it is not at the right time. Therefore, the saint's actions are busy, coming and going. Confucius could not wait until the mat was warm while sitting, and Mozi could not wait until the chimney was blackened when he lived in peace.
It can be inferred from this that the implementation of morality is the primary task of the sages, and writing is only a minor matter for the sages.
Now you are lucky enough to be born in the era of sage, wearing loose clothes and broad belt, having a good reputation externally, high moral cultivation internally, and having good literary talent for a long time.
But it never raises its head and tail, flaps its wings and flutters its scales, transcends the mud, and soars above the wind and clouds, making people frightened when they see the shadow and terrified when they hear the sound.

summary:
summary line 4: During the Yongping period, Ban Gu served as Lang, collating books. When ridiculed for his focus on writing, he responded that in peaceful times, unlike the chaotic Warring States, one should not seek fame through deceit. He argued that the Han dynasty's stability made such pursuits unnecessary, and true virtue and writing were the proper path.

