Chunk 0: 
original: 
张纯子奋曹褒郑玄张纯字伯仁，京兆杜陵人也。
高祖父安世，宣帝时为大司马卫将军，封富平侯。
父放，为成帝侍中。
纯少袭爵士，哀、平间为侍中，王莽时至列卿。
遭值篡伪，多亡爵士，纯以敦谨守约，保全前封。
建武初，先来诣阙，故得复国。
五年，拜太中大夫，使将颍川突骑安集荆、徐、杨部，督委输，监诸将营。
反又将兵屯田南阳，迁五官中郎将。
有司奏，列侯非宗室不宜复国。
光武曰： 张纯宿卫十有余年，其勿废，更封武始侯，食富平之半。
纯在朝历世，明习故事。
建武初，旧章多阙，每有疑议，辄以访纯，自郊庙婚冠丧纪礼仪义，多所正定。
帝甚重之，以纯兼虎贲中郎将，数被引见，一日或至数四。
纯以宗庙未定，昭穆失序，十九年，乃与太仆朱浮共奏言： 陛下兴于匹庶，荡涤天下，诛锄暴乱，兴继祖宗。窃以经义所纪，人事众心，虽实同创革，而名为中兴，宜奉先帝，恭承祭祀者也。
元帝以来，宗庙奉祠高皇帝为受命祖，孝文皇帝为太宗，孝武皇帝为世宗，皆如旧制。
又立亲庙四世，推南顿君以上尽于舂陵节侯。
礼，为人后者则为之子，既事大宗，则降其私亲。
今禘祫高庙，陈序昭穆，而舂陵四世，君臣并列，以卑厕尊，不合礼意，设不遭王莽，而国嗣无寄，推求宗室，以陛下继统者，安得复顾私亲，违礼制乎？
昔高帝以自受命，不由太上，宣帝以孙后祖，不敢私亲，故为父立庙，独群臣侍祠。
translation: 
◆Zhang Chun Chuan, Zhang Chun, courtesy name Boren, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
My great-great-grandfather, Zhang Anshi, served as General Sima Wei during the reign of Emperor Xuan, and was granted the title of Marquis Fuping.
His father, Zhang Fang, served as Emperor Cheng's servant.
Zhang Chun inherited his father's title when he was young. He served as a minister during the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, and as a minister during the reign of Wang Mang.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, many people lost their titles, but Zhang Chun was able to retain the title of his predecessor because of his honesty, prudence, and compliance with the law.
In the early years of Jianwu, he came to the court first, so he was able to restore the country.
In five years, he became a doctor in Taizhong. The imperial court sent him to lead the Yingchuan Tuqi and gather Jingzhou, Xuzhou and Yang tribes to supervise the transfer and supervise the generals' camps.
Later, he led troops to farm in Nanyang and was promoted to the rank of General of the Five Gentlemen.
Officials reported that the princes should not return to the country if they were not from the clan with the surname Liu.
Emperor Guangwu said: Zhang Chunti's appointment as Suwei for more than ten years could not be abolished. He was renamed Wu Shihou and received half of Fuping County's salary.
Zhang Chun has been in power for a long time and is very familiar with old affairs.
In the early years of Jianwu, the old regulations were mostly incomplete. Whenever he had any doubts, he would visit Zhang Chun. Most of the rituals such as sacrifices, weddings, crowns, and funerals in the suburban temples were decided by Zhang Chunzheng.
The emperor attached great importance to him and appointed Zhang Chun as Huben Zhonglang General. He was introduced many times, sometimes four times a day.
Zhang Chun believed that the ancestral temple was undecided and the order of Zhaomu was disordered. In the 19th year, he and his imperial servant Zhu Fu wrote in a memorial: Your Majesty rose from the common people, pacified the world, wiped out the riots, and inherited the foundation of the ancestors. I believe that according to the scriptures, people should work with the heart of the people. Although it is actually equal to creation and innovation, it is called Zhongxing in name. It should be dedicated to the late emperor and respectfully accept the sacrificial ceremony.
Since the Yuan Dynasty, the ancestral temple has enshrined Emperor Gao as the appointed ancestor, Emperor Xiaowen as Taizong, and Emperor Xiaowu as Shizong, and they all followed the old system.
He also established the fourth generation of Qinmiao, and promoted Nandunjun and above to Chungling Jiehou.
According to the Book of Rites, the latter is considered his son. Since he serves Emperor Yuan as a major sect, he should be made his personal relative.
Nowadays, the sacrifices of emperors and emperors are held in high temples, with left Zhao Zhao and right Mu. However, in the fourth generation of Chung Ling, the monarchs and ministers were juxtaposed, and the low status was mixed with the high status, which was not in line with etiquette. If Wang Mang had not usurped the throne, and the country had nothing to rely on for its succession, so we relied on the clan and used your majesty to inherit the throne, how could we care for our private relatives and violate the etiquette?
In the past, Emperor Gao believed that he had been appointed by heaven and could not help the emperor. Emperor Xuan regarded his grandson as the successor of his ancestors and did not dare to have a private relationship, so he built a temple for his father and only had a group of ministers attend the shrine.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
臣愚谓宜除今亲庙，以则二帝旧典，愿下有司博采其议。
诏下公卿，大司徒戴涉、大司空窦融议： 宜以宣、元、成、哀、平五帝四世代今亲庙，宣、元皇帝尊为祖、父，可亲奉祠，成帝以下，有司行事，别为南顿君立皇考庙。
其祭上至舂陵节侯，群臣奉祠，以明尊尊之敬，亲亲之恩。
帝从之。
是时宗庙未备，自元帝以上，祭于洛阳高庙，成帝以下，祠于长安高庙，其南顿四世，随所在而祭焉。
明年，纯代朱浮为太仆。
二十三年，代杜林为大司空。
在位慕曹参之迹，务于无为，选辟椽史，皆知名大儒。
明年，上穿阳渠，引洛水为漕，百姓得其利。
二十六年，诏纯曰： 禘、祫之祭，不行已久矣。 三年不为礼，礼必坏；三年不为乐，乐必崩 。
宜据经典，详为其制。
纯奏曰： 《礼》，三年一祫，五年一禘。
《春秋传》曰： 大祫者何？
合祭也。
毁庙及未毁庙之主皆登，合食乎太祖，五年而再殷。
汉旧制三年一祫，毁庙主合良高庙，存庙主未尝合祭。
元始五年，诸王公列侯庙会，始为禘祭。
又前十八年亲幸长安，亦行此礼。
礼说三年一闰，天气小备；五年再闰，天气大备。
故三年一祫，五年一禘。
禘之为言谛，谛定昭穆尊卑之义也。
禘祭以夏四月，夏者阳气在上，阴气在下，故正尊卑之义也。
祫祭以冬十月，冬者五谷成孰，物备礼成，故合聚饮食也。
斯典之废，于兹八年，谓可如礼施行，以时定议。
定从之，自是禘、祫遂定。
translation: 
In my humble opinion, I believe that the current Qin Temple should be abolished and the old scriptures of the two emperors should be imitated. I hope that the imperial edict will be issued and the opinions will be widely listened to.
The edict was sent to the ministers, and the chief minister Daishe and the chief minister Kongdou Rong discussed it: The current ancestral temple should be replaced by the five emperors and four generations, including Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Emperor Ping. Emperors Xuan and Yuan were respected as ancestors and fathers, and could be worshiped in the ancestral hall. After becoming the emperor, there were officials to act, and another emperor Kao temple was built for Nantonjun.
Its sacrifices go up to the Marquis of Chongling Festival, and all the ministers worship it in the temple to show their respect for those they respect and the kindness of being close to those they are close to.
The emperor obeyed.
At this time, the ancestral temple was not complete. From Emperor Yuan to above, sacrifices were made in the Gaomiao of Luoyang. Below Emperor Cheng, the ancestral temple was worshiped in the Gaomiao of Chang'an. The fourth generation of Nandunjun offered sacrifices wherever they were.
The next year, Zhang Chun replaced Zhu Fu as the imperial servant.
In the 23rd year, he replaced Du Lin as the Great Sikong.
When he was in power, he envied Cao Shen for inheriting Xiao He's deeds and made no changes to the old laws. The people who were selected to be the rafters were all well-known Confucian scholars.
Next year, the Yang Canal will be opened and the Luo River can be diverted for water transportation, which will benefit the people.
In the twenty-sixth year, the emperor issued an edict to Zhang Chundao: The memorial ceremony for Emperor Yuhe has not been held for a long time. The ancients said: If you don't practice rituals for three years, the rituals will be ruined; if you don't practice happiness for three years, the happiness will collapse.
The system should be made in detail based on the classics.
Zhang Chun said: "The Book of Rites" says that three years have a 绻合, and every five years there has been a 绻帝.
"Spring and Autumn" legend: Who is the great union?
A joint sacrifice.
The owners of the destroyed and undestroyed temples are listed above, and they eat together in Taizu's temple, and it will be held again every five years.
According to the old system of the Han Dynasty, the festival was held every three years. The owners of the destroyed temples shared the sacrifices in the high temples, but the owners of the surviving temples did not share the sacrifices.
In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, the temple fairs of princes and princes were held, and the emperor's sacrifices began.
Eighteen years ago, the emperor personally went to Chang'an and performed this ceremony.
Li said that if there is a leap every three years, the weather will be slightly worse. If there is a leap every five years, the weather will be better.
Therefore, the marriage ceremony is held once every three years, and the emperor ceremony is held every five years.
Emperor Yu means truth, and truth means the dignity and inferiority of Zhao Mu.
The Emperor's Sacrifice is held in the fourth month of summer. In summer, the yang energy is at the top and the yin energy is at the bottom, so it means being superior and inferior.
The festival is held in the tenth month of winter, when the grains are ripe and the gifts are prepared, so they gather together to eat.
It has been eight years since this ceremony was abolished. Things can be done according to the ceremony and settled on time.
The emperor obeyed, and from then on the sacrifices for Emperor Chu and Chu He were stipulated.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时，南单于及乌桓来降，边境无事，百姓新去兵革，岁仍有年，家给人足。
纯以圣王之建辟雍，所以崇尊礼义，既富而教者也。
乃案七经谶、明堂图、河间《古辟雍记》、孝武太山明堂制度，及平帝时议，欲具奏之。
未及上，会博士桓荣上言宜立辟雍、明堂，章下三公、太常，而纯议同荣，帝乃许之。
三十年，纯奏上宜封禅，曰： 自古受命而帝，治世之隆，必有封禅，以告成功焉。《乐动声仪》曰： 以《雅》治人，《风》成于《颂》。
有周之盛，成、康之间，郊配封禅，皆可见也。
书曰： 岁二月，东巡狩，至于岱宗，祡 ，则封禅之义也。
臣伏见陛下受中兴之命，平海内之乱，修复祖宗，抚存万姓，天下旷然，咸蒙更生，恩德云行，惠泽雨施，黎元安宁，夷狄慕义。
《诗》云： 受天之祜，四方来贺。
今摄提之岁，仓龙甲寅，德在东宫。
宜及嘉时，遵唐帝之典，继孝武之业，以二月东巡狩，封于岱宗，明中兴，勒功勋，复祖统，报天神，禅梁父，祀地祇，传祚子孙，万世之基也。
中元元年，帝乃东巡岱宗，以纯视御史大夫从，并上元封旧仪及刻石文。
三月，薨，谥曰节候。
奋字稚通。
曹褒字叔通，鲁国薛人也。父充，持《庆氏礼》，建武中为博士，从巡狩岱宗，定封禅礼，还，受诏议立七郊、三雍、大射、养老礼仪。
显宗即位，充上言： 汉再受命，仍有封禅之事，而礼乐崩阙，不可为后嗣法。
五帝不相沿乐，三王不相袭礼，大汉当自制礼，以示百世。
帝问： 制礼乐云何？
充对曰： 《河图括地象》曰： 有汉世礼乐文雅出。
《尚书琁机钤》曰： 有帝汉出，德洽作乐，名予。
帝善之，下诏曰： 今且改太乐官曰太予乐，歌诗曲操，以俟君子。
拜充侍中。
作章句辩难，于是遂有庆氏学。
褒少笃志，有大度，结发传充业，博雅疏通，尤好礼事。
常感朝廷制度未备，慕叔孙通为汉礼仪，昼夜研精，沉吟专思，寝则怀抱笔札，行则诵习文书，当其念至，忘所之适。
初举孝廉，再迁圉令，以礼理人，以德化俗。
时它郡盗徒五人来入圉界，吏捕得入，陈留太守马严闻而疾恶，风县杀之。
translation: 
At that time, Nan Danyu and Wu Huan came to surrender, and there was nothing happening on the border. The people had just gotten rid of the military revolution. They were young and had enough money.
Zhang Chun believed that the holy king built schools to promote etiquette and righteousness and to provide education on the basis of enriching the people.
So in accordance with the prophecies of the Seven Classics, the Mingtang Picture, Hejian's "Gu Piyong Ji", and Xiaowu Taishan Mingtang system, Emperor Heping discussed it in detail and wanted to start it in detail.
It was not submitted, but it happened that Dr. Huan Rong wrote a letter suggesting the establishment of Piyong and Mingtang. The memorial was sent to Sangong and Taichang. Zhang Chun's opinion was the same as Huan Rong's, so the emperor agreed.
On the 30th year, Zhang Chun submitted a memorial that should hold a Zen ceremony. The memorial said: Since ancient times, those who have been appointed as emperors by fate must have the ceremony of Zen ceremony to declare their success in a time of peace. "Le Dong Sheng Yi" says: "Ya" is used to govern people, and "Wind" is formed from "Song".
In the prosperous days of the Zhou Dynasty, during the reigns of King Cheng and King Kang, there were historical facts showing that the suburbs were granted the title of Zen.
"Shu Jing" says: In the second month of the year, I patrolled east for hunting, and as for Daizong, this is what I said. It means Feng Chan.
Your Majesty saw that your Majesty accepted the destiny of ZTE, quelled the chaos in the country, repaired the temples of the ancestors, and maintained the peace of the people. The world was safe and sound, the people were reborn, kindness was like clouds traveling in the sky, benefits were like rain falling, the people lived and worked in peace and contentment, and Yi and Di envied benevolence and righteousness.
"The Book of Songs" says: Receiving blessings from heaven, congratulations come from all directions.
This year is the year of Yin, Cang Long Jiayin, Virtue is in the East Palace.
We should take advantage of the good time, follow the rules of Tang Yao, inherit the great cause of Emperor Xiaowu, hold an eastward hunting tour in February, seal Mount Tai, show the master of Zhongxing, record meritorious deeds, restore the traditions of our ancestors, report to the gods, pay homage to the fathers of Liang, worship the gods of the earth, and pass blessings to our descendants. This is the foundation of all generations.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the emperor visited Mount Tai in the east, accompanied by Zhang Chun, the imperial censor, and the Yuan Dynasty sealed the music and carved stone inscriptions.
In March, Zhang Chun died and was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
◆Cao Bao Biography, Cao Bao, courtesy name Shutong, was born in Xue, Lu State.
His father, Cao Chong, insisted on studying the "Qingshi Rites". During the Jianwu period, he became a doctor. He followed the emperor on a hunting trip to Mount Tai and established the Zen Rite. After returning, he was ordered to establish etiquette such as Qijiao, Sanyong, Dashe, and Elderly Care.
After Xianzong came to the throne, Cao Chong said: If the Han Dynasty receives the mandate of heaven again, there will still be a matter of enshrining Zen, but the rituals and music are incomplete and cannot be used as an example for future generations.
The five emperors did not inherit each other's music, and the three kings did not follow each other's old rituals. The great Han should make his own rituals and use them as examples for generations of descendants.
The emperor asked: How to make rituals and music?
Chong replied: "He Tu Kuo Di Xiang" says: "Elegance in rituals and music emerged in the Han Dynasty."
"Shang Shu·Ji Qian" says: There was an emperor who came out of the Han Dynasty. He was virtuous and happy, and his name was Yu.
The emperor appreciated it very much and issued an edict: Now the official name of Taiyue will be changed to Taiyule, and he will sing poems and perform music, and wait for future gentlemen to supplement it.
He worshiped Cao Chong as his servant.
It was difficult to argue chapters and sentences, so "Qingshi Xue" came out.
Cao Bao was ambitious and generous when he was young. When he was twenty, he inherited his father's studies. He was knowledgeable and especially fond of etiquette.
He often felt that the imperial system was incomplete and envied Shusun Tong for establishing etiquette for the Han Dynasty, so he studied it morning and night and concentrated on thinking. He held the letters in his arms when sleeping and recited the documents while walking. When he was so fascinated by his thoughts, he forgot which way he should go.
Cao Bao was first promoted to Xiaolian, and then to the magistrate of Yuxian County. He used etiquette to govern people and virtue to change customs.
At that time, five thieves from other counties came into Yuxian County and were captured by the officials. Ma Yan, the prefect of Chenliu, was very angry after hearing this and ordered to go to the county to kill them.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
褒敕吏曰： 夫绝人命者，天亦绝之。
皋陶不为盗制死刑，管仲遇盗而升诸公。
今承旨而杀之，是逆天心，顺府意也，其罚重矣。
如得全此人命而身坐之，吾所愿也。
遂不为杀。
严奏褒耎弱，免官归郡，为功曹。
征拜博士。
会肃宗欲制定礼乐，元和二年下诏曰： 《河图》称 赤九会昌，十世以光，十一以兴 。
《尚书琁机钤》曰： 述尧理世，平制礼乐，放唐之文。
予末小子，托于数终，曷以缵兴，崇弘祖宗，仁济元元？
《帝命验》曰： 顺尧考德，题期立象。
且三五步骤，优劣殊轨，况予顽陋，无以克堪，虽欲从之，末由也已。
每见图书，中心恧焉。
褒知帝旨欲有兴作，乃上疏曰： 昔者圣人受命而王，莫不制礼作乐，以著功德。
功成作乐，化定制礼，所以救世俗，致祯祥，为万姓获福于皇天者也。今皇天降祉，嘉瑞并臻，制作之符，甚于言语。
宜定文制，著成汉礼，丕显祖宗盛德之美。
章下太常，太常巢堪以为一世大典，非褒所定，不可许。
帝知群僚拘挛，难与图始，朝廷礼宪，宜时刊立，明年复下诏曰： 朕以不德，膺祖宗弘烈。
乃者鸾凤仍集，麟龙并臻，甘露宵降，嘉谷滋生，赤草之类，纪于史官。
朕夙夜祗畏，上无以彰于先功，下无以克称灵物。
汉遭秦余，礼坏乐崩，且因循故事，未可观省，有知其说者，各尽所能。
褒省诏，乃叹息谓诸生曰： 昔奚斯颂鲁，考甫咏殷。
夫人臣依义显君，竭忠彰主，行之美也。
当仁不让，吾何辞哉！
遂复上疏，具陈礼乐之本，制改之意。
translation: 
Cao Bao said to the officials: Those who cut off human life will be cut off by God.
It is said that Gaotao did not enact the death penalty for thieves, but Guan Zhong was promoted to a public minister when he met a thief.
Now to kill them according to the order from above is to violate God's will and obey the governor, and the punishment is too severe.
If I can save the life of the thief and let me be punished, I am willing.
So he didn't kill those five people.
Ma Yan reported that Cao Bao was weak and dismissed him from his post. He returned to the county and became a meritorious Cao Cao.
Later, Cao Bao was recruited to become a doctor.
It happened that Suzong wanted to formulate rituals and music. In the second year of Yuanhe, an edict was issued: "He Tu" said that Chijiu would be prosperous, with light in the tenth generation and prosperity in the eleventh.
"Shang Shu Ji Qian" says: It describes Yao's management of the world, the standardization of rituals and music, and the writings of the Tang Dynasty.
I am the last boy, entrusted to the end, how can I inherit the great legacy of my ancestors and save the people?
"Emperor's Mingxian" says: Shun Yao tests morality and establishes images according to the questions.
Moreover, the steps of the Three Sovereigns and the Five Emperors have different advantages and disadvantages. Moreover, I am very stubborn and cannot bear the responsibility. Even if I want to follow them, I cannot do it.
Every time I see the book, I feel very ashamed.
Cao Bao knew that the emperor's will was to make a difference, so he went to the emperor and said: In the past, when the saints were appointed by heaven to be kings, they would always make rituals and music to show their merits.
The purpose of enjoying success and making custom rituals is to save the world, attract good fortune, and bring blessings to all surnames. Now the emperor has sent blessings, good omens have appeared, and the talismans made are better than the records in words.
It should be written down and written into Han rites to show the beauty of the virtues of our ancestors.
The memorial was issued to Taichang, and Taichang Chaokan regarded it as the grand ceremony of a lifetime. Cao Bao could not decide it alone and disagreed.
The emperor knew that the officials were too reserved and it was difficult to discuss matters with them. The court's etiquette and laws must be settled in time, and the next year an edict was issued: "My own moral character is not enough, and I am responsible for the great cause of my ancestors."
Recently, Luan and Phoenix have gathered together, Linlong has appeared, nectar has fallen at night, Jiagu has grown everywhere, and mascots such as red grass have been recorded by historians.
I was very awed in the morning and evening. I could not praise the late emperor's meritorious service to my superiors, and I could not take care of the spiritual creatures.
When the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, the rituals and music were incomplete, and there was no benefit in continuing to do things as usual. If anyone has knowledge in this area, please do your best.
Cao Bao thought about his intention, and then sighed and said to everyone: "In the past, Xi Si sang about Lu, and Kaofu praised the Shang Dynasty."
It is a virtue for ministers to honor the monarch and commend the emperor according to the great righteousness.
It’s my duty to do so, why should I refuse?
So he went on to explain the fundamentals of rituals and music and the meaning of system reform.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
拜褒侍中，从驾南巡，既还，以事下三公，未及奏，诏召玄武司马班固，问改定礼制之宜。
固曰： 京师诸儒，多能说礼，宜广招集，共议得失。
帝曰： 谚言 作舍道边，三年不成 。会礼之家，名为聚讼，互生疑异，笔不得下。
昔尧作《大章》，一夔足矣。
章和元年正月，乃召褒诣嘉德门，令小黄门持班固所上叔孙通《汉仪》十二篇，敕褒曰： 此制散略，多不合经，今宜依礼条正，使可族行。
于南宫、东观尽心集作。
褒既受命，及次序礼事，依准旧典，杂以《五经》谶记之文，撰次天子至于庶人冠婚吉凶终始制度，以为百五十篇，写以二尺四寸简。其年十二月奏上。
帝以众论难一，故但纳之，不复令有司平奏。
会帝崩，和帝即位，褒乃为作章句，帝遂以《新礼》二篇冠。
擢褒监羽林左骑。
永元四年，迁射声校尉。
后太尉张、尚书张敏等奏褒擅制《汉礼》，破乱圣术，宜加刑诛。
帝虽寝其奏，而《汉礼》遂不行。
褒在射声，营舍有停棺不葬者百余所，褒亲自履行，问其意故。
吏对曰： 此等多是建武以来绝无后者，不得埋掩。
褒乃怆然，为买空地，悉葬其无主者，设祭以祀之。
迁城门校尉、将作大匠。
时有疾疫，褒巡行病徒，为致医药，经理饘粥，多蒙济活。
七年，出为河内太守。
时春夏大旱，粮谷踊贵。
褒到，乃省吏并职，退去奸残，澍雨数降。
其秋大孰，百姓给足，流冗皆还。
后坐上灾害不实免。
有顷征，再迁，复为侍中。
褒博物识古，为儒者宗。
translation: 
The emperor then appointed Cao Bao as a doctor, and followed the emperor on a tour to the south. After returning, he handed over the matters concerning the etiquette to the Three Dukes. Before he had time to report, he summoned Xuanwu Sima Bangu to ask about changes to the etiquette system and other matters.
Ban Gu said: There are many Confucian scholars in the capital, and most of them are good at talking about etiquette. We should recruit them widely to discuss the pros and cons together.
The Emperor said: As the saying goes: It will take three years to build a house next to the road. When we gather at the house for ceremony, it is superficially a discussion, but in reality it is mutual suspicion, and we are delayed in writing.
In the past, Emperor Yao used a minister named Kui to compose the Great Chapter.
In the first month of the first year of Zhanghe, he summoned Cao Bao to Jiademen and ordered Xiaohuangmen to take the twelve chapters of "Han Yi" written by Shu Suntong, which Ban Gu had attended, and ordered Cao Bao to say: "This Han Yi is very loose and inconsistent with the meaning of the scriptures. Some modifications should be made now to make it practical."
You can concentrate on your work in Nangong and Dongguan.
After receiving the order, Cao Bao arranged the order of etiquette, based on the old scriptures, mixed with the prophecies of the Five Classics, and wrote out the system of etiquette from the emperor to the common people, including the good and bad luck of weddings, etc., a total of 150 articles, written on two-foot-four-inch bamboo sketches, and memorialized in December of that year.
The emperor thought that it was difficult for everyone to agree on the opinions, so he only accepted them and no longer asked the officials to comment.
When the emperor died and Emperor He ascended the throne, Cao Bao wrote chapters and sentences, and the emperor put the two chapters of "New Rites" at the top.
Cao Bao was promoted to supervise Yulin Zuoqi.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan's reign, he was promoted to the rank of Colonel Shesheng.
Later, Taiwei Zhang Youfu, Shangshu Zhang Min and others complained that he had made the "Han Rites" without authorization and that he should be beheaded if he broke the sacred law.
Although the emperor put down the memorial, the "Han Rites" was not implemented.
When Cao Bao was shooting the captain, there were more than a hundred coffins in the camp but no burials. Cao Bao personally investigated and asked what the reason was.
The official replied: Most of these people have no descendants since the founding of the military, so they cannot be buried after their death.
Cao Bao was very sad after hearing this, so he bought an open space and used it all to bury those without owners and set up sacrifices to worship them.
He was promoted to city gate captain and will be a great craftsman.
At that time, the epidemic was prevalent. Cao Bao visited the patients, found medicine for them, prepared thick porridge, and saved many people.
In seven years, he became the governor of Hanoi.
At this time, there was a severe drought in spring and summer, and food prices soared.
After Cao Bao took office, he laid off officials and eliminated bad guys. Rain fell several times.
There was a great harvest in autumn this year, the people's homes were well fed, and all the wandering people came back.
Later, Cao Bao was dismissed from his post for committing the crime of falsely reporting the disaster.
Soon he was recruited, promoted, and became a servant.
Cao Bao is knowledgeable and understands ancient culture and is the master of Confucianism.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
且乐非夔、襄，而新音代起，律谢皋、苏，而制令亟易，修补旧文，独何猜焉？
礼云礼云，曷其然哉！郑玄字康成，北海高密人也。
八世祖崇，哀帝时尚书仆射。
玄少为乡啬夫，得休归，尝诣学官，不乐为吏，父数怒之，不能禁。
遂造太学受业，师事京兆第五元先，始通《京氏易》《公羊春秋》《三统历》《九章算术》。
又从东郡张恭祖受《周官》《礼记》《左氏春秋》《韩诗》《古文尚书》。
以山东无足问者，乃西入关，因涿郡卢植，事扶风马融。
融门徒四百余人，升堂进者五十余生。
融素骄贵，玄在门下，三年不得见，乃使高业弟子传授于玄。
玄日夜寻诵，未尝怠倦。
会融集诸生考论图纬，闻玄善算，乃召见于楼上，玄因从质诸疑义，问毕辞归。
融喟然谓门人曰： 郑生今去，吾道东矣。
玄自游学，十余年乃归乡里。
家贫，客耕东莱，学徒相随已数百千人。
及党事起，乃与同郡孙嵩等四十余人俱被禁锢，遂隐修经业，杜门不出。
时任城何休好《公羊》学，遂著《公羊墨守》、《左氏膏肓》、《穀梁废疾》；玄乃发《墨守》，针《膏肓》，起《废疾》。
休见而叹曰： 康成入吾室，操吾矛，以伐我乎！
初，中兴之后，范升、陈元、李育、贾逵之徒争论古今学，后马融答北地太守刘瑰及玄答何休，义据通深，由是古学遂明。
灵帝末，党禁解，大将军何进闻而避之。
州郡以进权威，不敢违意，遂迫胁玄，不得已而诣之。
进为设几杖，礼待甚优。
玄不受朝服，而以幅巾见。
一宿逃去。
时年六十，弟子河内赵商等自远方至者数千。
后将军袁隗表为侍中，以父丧不行。
国相孔融深敬于玄，履履造门。告高密县为玄特立一乡，曰： 昔齐置 土乡 ，越有 君子军 ，皆异贤之意也。
郑君好学，实怀明德。
昔太史公、廷尉吴公、谒者仆射邓公，皆汉之名臣。
又南山四皓有园公、夏黄公，潜光隐耀，世嘉其高，皆悉称公。
然则公者仁德之正号，不必三事大夫也。
今郑君乡宜曰 郑公乡 。
昔东海于公仅有一节，犹或戒乡人侈其门闾，矧乃郑公之德，而无驷牡之路！
可广开门衢，令容高车，号为 通德门 。
董卓迁都长安，公卿举玄为赵相，道断不至。
会黄巾寇青部，乃避地徐州，徐州牧陶谦接以师友之礼。
建安元年，自徐州还高密，道遇黄巾贼数万人，见玄皆拜，相约不敢入县境。
玄后尝疾笃，自虑，以书戒子益恩曰：吾家旧贫，不为父母群弟所容，去厮役之吏，游学周、秦之都，往来幽、并、兗、豫之域，获觐乎在位通人，处逸大儒，得意者咸从捧手，有所受焉。
translation: 
He died in office in fourteen years. He wrote twelve chapters of "Tongyi", 120 chapters of "Exemplary Classics", and forty-nine chapters of "Book of Rites". He taught more than a thousand students, and Qing's theory became popular in the world.
◆Zheng Xuan's biography, Zheng Xuan's courtesy name was Kangcheng, and he was a native of Gaomi, Beihai.
His eighth-generation ancestor Zheng Chong was the minister of public affairs at the time of Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty.
When Zheng Xuan was a boy, he worked as a small official in the countryside in charge of litigation and tax collection. Whenever he went home on vacation, he always had to go to school and was not happy to be a small official. His father was angry many times but could not stop him.
So he went to study at Taixue in Beijing, where he became a teacher under Wu Yuanxian, a native of Jingzhao, and then he became proficient in "Jingshi Yi", "Gongzhu Chunqiu", "Santong Calendar" and "Nine Chapters of Arithmetic".
He also studied "Zhou Guan", "Book of Rites", "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu", "Han Shi" and "Guwen Shangshu" from Zhang Gongzu of Dongjun.
Because there was no one in Shandong who could question him, he went west and entered the customs. After being introduced by Lu Zhi of Zhuojun, he became his disciple Fufeng Ma Rong.
Ma Rong had more than 400 students, and only about 50 people were taught by Ma Rong personally.
Ma Rong was an arrogant person, and Zheng Xuan had not seen him for three years under his tutelage. Ma Rong just sent his senior disciples to tutor Zheng Xuan.
Zheng Xuan studied day and night and never slackened off.
One day, Ma Rong summoned his students to study Tuwei. Hearing that Zheng Xuan was proficient in arithmetic, he summoned him upstairs. Zheng Xuan took this opportunity to ask Ma Rong many difficult questions.
After asking, he said goodbye to Ma Rong and returned to his hometown in Shandong. Ma Rong said to his students with emotion: Now that Zheng Sheng has left me, my teachings will spread eastward.
Since Zheng Xuan went out to study, it took more than ten years before he returned to his hometown.
His family was poor and he went to Donglai to work as a farmer. There are hundreds of students studying with him.
When the disaster of party imprisonment occurred, more than 40 people including Zheng Xuan and Sun Song from the same county were imprisoned. So he immersed himself in studying the classics and stayed behind closed doors.
At that time, He Xiu, a native of Rencheng, loved the theory of "Gongyang", so he wrote "Gongyang Mo Shou", "Zuo Shi's Death" and "Gu Liang's Failed Disease". Zheng Xuan wrote articles refuting "Mo Shou", "Gao Ming" and "Fei Ji".
He Xiu saw it and sighed: Zheng Kangcheng walked into my house, picked up my spear, and came to attack me!
In the early years of the Eastern Han Dynasty, Fan Sheng, Chen Yuan, Li Ming, and Jia Kui were debating ancient and modern theories. Later, Ma Rong replied to Liu Mo and Zheng Xuan, the prefect of the North. He Xiu said that because of the profound research on doctrine and theory, the ancient classics became prosperous from then on.
In the last years of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, the party ban was lifted, and the general He Jin heard of Zheng Xuan's reputation and recruited him.
The prefectures and counties believed that He Jin was a powerful nobleman and did not dare to go against his wishes, so they forced Zheng Xuan to obey the call. Zheng Xuan had no choice but to go and answer the imperial edict.
He Jin set up several canes for him and treated him very generously.
Zheng Xuan did not accept the court robes, but came to see He Jin in Confucian attire wearing a turban.
He stayed one night and then escaped.
Zheng Xuan was already sixty years old at that time, and his students came from far away places, such as Zhao Shang from Hanoi, and there were thousands of them.
Later, General Yuan Wei recommended him as a minister, but he did not take up the post due to his father's death.
Kong Rong, the Prime Minister of the country, respected Zheng Xuan very much. He hurriedly came to his home and instructed the magistrate of Gaomi County to set up a special township for him. He said: In the past, Qi State had a "Scholar Township", and Yue State had a "Gentleman Army", etc., which meant treating the virtuous with courtesy.
Zheng Xuanjun was eager to learn and had noble virtues.
In the past, Taishi Gong, Tingwei Wu Gong, and Ye Zhipushe Deng Gong were all famous officials in the former Han Dynasty.
There are also Yuan Gong and Xia Huang Gong in the Four Hao Mountains of Nanshan. Their talents and virtues are hidden and not exposed. The world respects their nobleness and calls them "gong".
If this is the case, then the so-called "gong" is the proper name for a virtuous person. You don't have to be a Taiwei, Situ or Sikong to be called a public official.
Now the township of Zhengxuan should be named Zhenggong Township.
In the past, Donghai Yugong only had a moral character of ending prisons fairly. He also warned the villagers to expand the gates of their lanes in order to prepare future generations for high-ranking officials.
What's more, Zheng Xuan has such virtue, how could he not walk the road of a horse and a high chariot. The gate of Zhengxuanli Lane should be enlarged and the road in front of it should be widened so that it can pass high-covered vehicles. This can be named Tongdemen.
Dong Zhuo moved the capital to Chang'an, and the minister recommended Zheng Xuan as the prime minister of Zhao. However, he was unable to take office because of the road obstruction.
When the Yellow Turban Army attacked the Qingzhou area, Zheng Xuan took refuge in Xuzhou. Xuzhou Mu Tao Qian received him as a teacher and friend.
In the first year of Jian'an, Zheng Xuan returned to Gaomi from Xuzhou and encountered tens of thousands of Yellow Turban troops on the way. When the Yellow Turban Army saw Zheng Xuan, they all bowed down and agreed not to enter Gaomi County.
Later, Zheng Xuan suffered from a serious illness and feared that he would not die soon, so he wrote to his son Zheng Yien, saying: Our family used to be very poor, but with the tolerance and support of our parents and brothers, we resigned from the small officials like humble servants and went to Zhou, Qin and other places to study. What makes me most proud is that these Confucian scholars accepted my advice and taught me something.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遂博稽《六艺》，粗览传记，时睹秘书纬术之奥。
年过四十，乃归供养，假田播殖，以娱朝夕。
遇阉尹擅势，坐党禁锢，十有四年，而蒙赦令，举贤良方正有道，辟大将军三司府。
公车再召，比牒并名，早为宰相。
惟彼数公，懿德大雅，克堪王臣，故宜式序。
吾自忖度，无任于此，但念述先圣之元意，思整百家之不齐，亦庶几以竭吾才，故闻命罔从。
而黄巾为害，萍浮南北，复归邦乡。
入此岁来，已七十矣。
宿素衰落，仍有失误，案之礼典，便合传家。
今我告尔以老，归尔以事，将闲居以安性，贾思以终业。
自非拜国君之命，问族亲之忧，展敬坟墓，观省野物，胡尝扶杖出门乎！
家事大小，汝一承之。
咨尔一夫，曾无同生相依。
其勖求君子之道，研钻勿替，敬慎威仪，以近有德。
显誉成于僚友，德行立于已志。
若致声称，亦有荣于所生，可不深念邪！
可不深念邪！吾虽无绂冕之绪，颇有让爵之高。
自乐以论赞之功，庶不遗后人之羞，末所愤愤者，徒以亡亲坟垄未成，所好群书率皆腐敝，不得于礼堂写定，传与其人。
日西方暮，其可图乎！
家今差多于昔，勤力务时，无恤饥寒。
菲饥食，薄衣服，节夫二者，尚令吾寡恨。
若忽忘不识，亦已焉哉！
时，大将军袁绍总兵冀州，遣使要玄，大会宾客，玄最后至，乃延升上坐。
身长八尺，饮酒一斛，秀眉明目，容仪温伟。
绍客多豪俊，并有才说，见玄儒者，未以通人许之，竞设异端，百家互起。
translation: 
Therefore, I extensively researched the "Six Arts", browsed biographies, and read the rare national documents from time to time to get a glimpse of the secrets of the national prophecies.
After he was forty years old, he returned home to support his parents, renting land and farming to spend his time.
When the eunuchs monopolized power, I was implicated by the party members and imprisoned. It took fourteen years for me to be pardoned. Later, he was recommended as a virtuous, upright, and virtuous man many times. He was recruited by the generals and the three ministers, and twice by the imperial court.
Some of the other people who were on the same list as me were already prime ministers.
Thinking of those people with virtues and talents, they are capable of fulfilling the duties of ministers and should therefore be appointed.
I didn't think I had the talent to hold such a position. I just wanted to expound the original meaning of the Confucianism of the late sage Confucius and unify the differences among various schools. I also wanted to use my talents to the fullest, so I received the call but did not accept the call.
The Yellow Turban made me travel north and south, wandering, and now I am returning to my hometown.
By this year I am seventy years old.
The academic quality of the old days has become desolate, and there are still some mistakes. According to the rules of the ceremony, the management of the family should be passed on to the son.
Now I tell you that when I am old, I will leave all my housework to you. I will live in peace and quiet, thinking deeply to complete my career.
Unless I accept the king's orders, condolences the sufferings of my relatives, visit the tombs, observe and inspect wild animals, how can I ever go out with a stick?
Household chores, big and small, are all your responsibility.
It's a pity that you are alone and have no brothers or sisters to rely on.
You must work hard, pursue the cultivation of a gentleman, and study unremittingly. Be careful to pay attention to your attitude and appearance, and get close to those who are virtuous.
A distinguished reputation is promoted by colleagues and friends, and virtue is established by one's own ambition.
If you get a good reputation, you can also bring glory to your parents. Shouldn't you think deeply about this?
Although I am not as distinguished as a high-ranking official, I am as noble as a prince. I enjoy myself by commenting on and compiling classics, hoping that I will not be ridiculed by future generations.
Finally, what makes my heart uneasy is that the graves of my deceased parents have not been completed, and most of my favorite books are rotten. I cannot finalize them in the hall where learning rituals are taught and pass them on to the people who should teach them.
I am like the setting sun, approaching twilight. Can I still complete these tasks?
Our family is a little better than it used to be. As long as you work hard and cherish your time, you will not be afraid of lack of food and clothing.
Simple food and simple clothes, if I can control these two aspects, I will have no regrets.
If you forget my words and don't appreciate my painstaking efforts, then forget it.
At this time, General Yuan Shao was commanding the army in Jizhou.
He sent an envoy to invite Zheng Xuan as a guest. Zheng Xuan arrived last, and Yuan Shao invited him to his seat. Zheng Xuan was tall, could drink a handful of wine, had fine features, handsome appearance, and was gentle and majestic.
Most of Yuan Shao's guests were handsome, talented, and good at debating. They saw that Zheng Xuan was a Confucian scholar and thought that he was not a knowledgeable person.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
玄依方辩对，咸出问表，皆得所未闻，莫不嗟服。
时汝南应劭亦归于绍，因自赞曰： 故太山太守应中远，北面称弟子何如？
玄笑曰： 仲尼之门考以四科，回、赐之徒不称官阀。
劭有惭色。
绍乃举玄茂才，表为左中郎将，皆不就。
公车征为大司农，给安车一乘，所过长吏送迎。
玄乃以病自乞还家。
时袁绍与曹操相拒于官度，令其子谭遣使逼玄随军，不得已，载病到元城县，疾笃不进，其年六月卒，年七十四。
遗令薄葬。
自郡守以下尝受业者，缞绖赴会千余人。
门人相与撰玄答诸弟子问《五经》，依《论语》作《郑志》八篇。
凡玄所注《周易》《尚书》《毛诗》《仪礼》《礼记》《论语》《孝经》《尚书大传》《中候》《乾象历》，又著《天文七政论》《鲁礼义》《六艺论》《毛诗谱》《驳许慎五经异义》《答临孝存周礼难》，凡百余万言。
玄质于辞训，通人颇讥其繁。至于经传洽孰，称为纯儒，齐、鲁间宗之。
其门人山阳郗虑至御史大夫，东莱王基、清河崔琰著名于世。
又乐安国渊、任嘏，时并童幼，玄称渊为国器，嘏有道德，其余亦多所鉴拔，皆如其言。
玄唯有一子益恩，孔融在北海，举为孝廉；及融为黄巾所围，益恩赴难损身。
有遗腹子，玄以其手文似己，名之曰小同。
translation: 
So everyone rushed to imagine some tricky and weird questions, and various schools of thought put forward their opinions one after another.
Zheng Xuan answered and responded according to the orthodox Confucian views, and the content exceeded the scope of the question. Everyone gained knowledge that they had never heard of before, and no one did not admire and admire Zheng Xuan. At this time, Ying Shao from Runan also joined Yuan Shao, so he introduced himself: Ying Zhongyuan, the former governor of Qinshan, would you like to call me your disciple from the north? How about it?
Zheng Xuan smiled and said: Confucius's students had to take exams in four subjects: morality, speech, political affairs, and literature. Students like Yan Yuan and Zigong never claimed their official titles or family status.
Ying Shao felt ashamed after hearing this.
Therefore, Yuan Shao recommended Zheng Xuan as Maocai, and the above table recommended him as Zuo Zhonglang General. Zheng Xuan did not take office.
The imperial court conscripted him as the chief minister of agriculture, gave him a safe car, and stipulated that wherever he passed, officials in charge would greet him and see him off.
Zheng Xuandu requested to return home because he was ill.
Yuan Shao ordered his son Yuan Tan to send envoys to force Zheng Xuan to join the army. Zheng Xuan had no choice but to take his illness to Yuancheng County, where he was seriously ill and unable to advance. Zheng Xuan died in June of this year at the age of seventy-four.
Zheng Xuan's will was buried sparingly.
At that time, more than a thousand people who had been students under Zheng Xuan's sect, including county magistrates and officials, came to the funeral in solemn mourning clothes.
Zheng Xuan's students co-wrote Zheng Xuan's answers to questions raised by his disciples from the "Five Classics" during his lifetime, and compiled it into "Zheng Zhi" in eight chapters according to the style of "The Analects of Confucius".
In total, the books that Zheng Xuan annotated include "The Book of Changes", "Shangshu", "Mao Shi", "Ritual", "Book of Rites", "The Analects", "The Book of Filial Piety", "Shangshu Da Zhuan", "Zhonghou", and "Cheqi Xiangli". Zheng Xuan's self-authored books include "Seven Political Treatises on Astronomy", "The Comprehensive Theory of Lu Li and Emperor Xuan", "Six Art Theory", "Mao Shi Pu", "Refutation of the Different Meanings of Xu Shen's Five Classics", and "Reply to the Difficulty of Lin Xiao and Preserving Zhou Rites", with a total of more than one million words.
Zheng Xuan strived to be simple and realistic in his interpretation of classics. Many knowledgeable people ridiculed this approach as too cumbersome. As for his rich understanding of classics' annotations, he may be called a pure Confucian. People in Qilu respect him as their master.
His students, Xi Luguan from Shanyang, Wang Quan from Donglai, and Cui Yan from Qinghe were all famous in the local area.
Guoyuan and Rengu Duan, both of whom were also from Le'an, were very young at that time. Zheng Xuan praised Dao Guoyuan as a pillar of the country, Ren Gu Duan had noble moral character, and many others also commented and recommended him.
Later, the achievements of these people were as he said. Zheng Xuan only had one son named Zheng Yien. When Kong Rong was the Prime Minister of Beihai, he recommended him as Xiaolian. When Kong Rong was besieged by the Yellow Turban Army, Yi En died in danger.
Yi En had a posthumous son, and Zheng Xuan named him Zheng Xiaotong because his hand lines were similar to his own.


