Chunk 0: 
original: 
荆王刘贾，高帝从父兄也，不知其初起时。
汉元年，还定三秦，贾为将军，定塞地，从东击项籍。
汉王败成皋，北度河，得张耳、韩信军，军修武，深沟高垒，使贾将二万人，骑数百，击楚，度白马津入楚地，烧其积聚，以破其业，无以给项王军食。
已而楚兵击之，贾辄避不肯与战，而与彭越相保。
汉王追项籍至固陵，使贾南度淮围寿春。
还至，使人间招楚大司马周殷。
周殷反楚，佐贾举九江，迎英布兵，皆会垓下，诛项籍。
汉王因使贾将九江兵，与太尉卢绾西南击临江王共尉，尉死，以临江为南郡。
贾既有功，而高祖子弱，昆弟少，又不贤，欲王同姓以填天下，乃下诏曰： 将军刘贾有功，及择子弟可以为王者。
群臣皆曰： 立刘贾为荆王，王淮东。
立六年，而淮南王黥布反，东击荆。
贾与战，弗胜，走富陵，为布军所杀。
燕王刘泽，高祖从祖昆弟也。
高祖三年，泽为郎中。
十一年，以将军击陈豨将王黄，封为营陵侯。
高后时，齐人田生游乏资，以画奸泽。
泽大说之，用金二百斤为田生寿。田生已得金，即归齐。
二岁，泽使人谓田生曰： 弗与矣。
田生如长安，不见泽，而假大宅，令其子求事吕后所幸大谒者张卿。
居数月，田生子请张卿临，亲修具。
张卿往，见田生帷帐具置如列侯。张卿惊。
酒酣，乃屏人说张卿曰： 臣观诸侯邸第百余，皆高帝一切功臣。
translation: 
Jing Wang Liu Jia, the cousin of Mo Gaozu Liu Bang, did not know when he participated in the uprising.
In the first year of Han Dynasty, when the king of Han Dynasty returned to the Three Qin Dynasty, Liu Mai was appointed as the general. After pacifying Sima Xin's territory, he followed Liu Bangdong to attack Xiangji.
The King of Han was defeated by Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River to the north, captured the armies of Zhang Er and Han Xin, and stationed their troops in Xiuwu County. On the one hand, they dug deep trenches and built high barriers; on the other hand, they sent Liu Mai to lead 20,000 troops and hundreds of cavalry to attack Chu, crossed Baima Jin, and entered the Chu land. They burned Chu's grain and grass, destroyed the Chu army's military supply, and made it impossible to supply food to King Xiang's army.
Soon, the Chu soldiers attacked, but Liu Jia always avoided it and did not fight the Chu soldiers. Instead, he and Peng Yue relied on each other to protect themselves.
The king of Han pursued Xiang Ji to Guling and sent Liu Mai to lead his troops south across the Huaihe River to surround Shouchun.
After returning, he sent people to alienate and recruit Zhou Yin, the great commander of Chu State, to surrender.
Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu and returned to Han, assisted Liu Mai in capturing Jiujiang, catered to Yingbu's army, fought at Gaixia, and defeated Xiang Yu.
Therefore, the King of Han sent Liu Jia to lead the Jiujiang soldiers, together with Taiwei Lu Wan, to attack Linjiang King Gongwei in the southwest. After Wei Gong's death, Linjiang was renamed Nanjun.
Since Liu Jia had achieved great military exploits, the emperor's son at that time was young, had few brothers, and was not very talented and virtuous. He wanted to make someone with the same surname king to conquer the world, so Xia Shao said: "General Liu Mai has meritorious service, and he is qualified to choose the king among his descendants."
The ministers said: Let Liu Mai be made King of Jing and take charge of Huaidong.
Six years later, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and attacked Jingdi eastward.
Liu Mai fought with him but failed to win. He fled to Fuling County and was killed by Yingbu's pursuers.
Liu Ze, King of Yan, was the brother of Gaozu and his great-grandfather.
In the third year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Liu Ze became a doctor.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, as a general, he led troops to defeat Chen Xi's general Wang Huang and was named Yinglinghou.
When Empress Gao was in power, Tian Sheng, a native of Qi, was short of funds when lobbying outside, so he turned to Liu Ze for help by offering suggestions.
Liu Ze was very happy and gave Tian Sheng two hundred pounds of gold when he passed away. Tian Sheng got the gold and immediately returned to Qi.
The following year, Liu Ze sent a messenger to Tian Sheng: We are no longer friends!
When Tian Sheng came to Chang'an, he did not go to see Liu Ze. Instead, he stayed in a big house and asked his son to find a way to work under Zhang Qing, the great emissary favored by Empress Lu.
A few months later, Tian Sheng's son invited Zhang Qing to his home as a guest, and Tian Sheng hosted a banquet for him in person.
Zhang Qing went there and was greatly surprised when he saw that the curtains and other decorative appliances wrapped in Tiansheng's house were in compliance with the standards of the princes.
When the wine was in full swing, Tian Sheng asked everyone to retreat and said to Zhang Qing: I have seen more than a hundred princes' postal residences, all of which were occupied by the meritorious officials of Emperor Gaozu.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
今吕氏雅故本推毂高帝就天下，功至大，又有亲戚太后之重。
太后春秋长，诸吕弱，太后欲立吕产为吕王，王代。
太后又重发之，恐大臣不听。
今卿最幸，大臣所敬，何不风大臣以闻太后，太后必喜。
诸吕以王，万户侯亦卿之有。
太后心欲之，而卿为内臣，不急发，恐祸及身矣。
张卿大然之，乃风大臣语太后。
太后朝，因问大臣。
大臣请立吕产为吕王。
太后赐张卿千金，张卿以其半进田生。田生弗受，因说之曰： 吕产王也，诸大臣未大服。
今营陵侯泽，诸刘长，为大将军，独此尚觖望。
今卿言太后，裂十余县王之，彼得王喜，于诸吕王益固矣。
张卿入言之。
又太后女弟吕须女亦为营陵侯妻，故遂立营陵侯泽为琅邪王。
琅邪王与田生之国，急行毋留。
出关，太后果使人追之。
已出，即还。
泽王琅邪二年，而太后崩，泽乃曰： 帝少，诸吕用事，诸刘孤弱。
引兵与齐王合谋西，欲诛诸吕。
至梁，闻汉灌将军屯荥阳，泽还兵备西界，遂跳驱至长安。
代王亦从代至。诸将相与琅邪王共立代王，是为孝文帝。
文帝元年，徙泽为燕王，而复以琅邪归齐。
泽王燕二年，薨，谥曰敬王。
子康王嘉嗣，九年薨。
子定国嗣。
定国与父康王姬奸，生子男一人。夺弟妻为姬。与子女三人奸。
定国有所欲诛杀臣肥如令郢人，郢人等告定国。定国使谒者以它法劾捕格杀郢人灭口。
translation: 
Nowadays, the Lu family originally assisted Emperor Gao in conquering the world. Their contribution was very great, and they also had relatives such as the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was old and the power of the Lu family was still weak. The Queen Mother wanted to establish Lu Chan as King Lu to rule over the country.
But the Queen Mother found it difficult to speak out, fearing that the ministers would disagree.
At present, you are the most favored, and the ministers respect you. Why don't you persuade the ministers to agree to make Zhu Lu king, and then report it to the Queen Mother, who will definitely be happy.
If the Lu family is granted the title of king, you must also be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households.
As a minister, if you don't realize what the Queen Mother wants to achieve quickly, I'm afraid there will be disaster.
After Zhang Qing heard this, he thought it was right, so he sarcastically persuaded the ministers to approve the granting of the title of Zhu Lu, and reported it to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother went to court and asked the ministers for their opinions.
Ministers please grant Lu Chan the title of King Lu.
Afterwards, the Empress Dowager rewarded Zhang Qing with a thousand catties of gold. Zhang Qing gave half of it to Tian Sheng, but Tian Sheng refused and took the opportunity to persuade him: "Lü Chan can be crowned king, but the ministers may not be very convinced."
Now the Marquis of Yingling, Liu Ze, is the elder of the Liu clan and a general. He is the only one who harbors resentment for not being crowned king.
Now you go and tell the Queen Mother that more than a dozen counties in Qi will be crowned king. Liu Ze will be happy and leave, and the status of the Lu family kings will be more stable.
Zhang Qing told the Queen Mother.
And because the daughter of the Queen Mother's sister Lu Xu was the wife of Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, Liu Ze was granted the title of King Langxie.
King Langxie and Tian Sheng went to Fengguo, and Tian Sheng advised him to leave quickly and not to stay.
After walking out of Hangu Pass, the Queen Mother indeed sent someone to chase him.
Liu Ze had already left the customs, and the visitor went back.
The year after Liu Ze became King Langxie, Empress Dowager Lu died of illness. Liu Ze then said: The emperor is young, Zhu Lu is in power, and the Liu clan is lonely and weak.
So he led his troops and conspired with the King of Qi to march westward, intending to kill Zhu Lu.
When he arrived in Liangdi, he heard that General Guan Ying of the Han Dynasty was stationed in Rongyang, so he withdrew his troops and stationed them in the western frontier of his country, and then rushed to Chang'an alone.
At this time, Liu Heng, the king of Dai, also arrived in Chang'an, the capital of Dai. The generals and ministers and Liu Ze jointly supported the king of Dai as the emperor of the Han Dynasty, that is, Emperor Xiaowen.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Liu Ze was renamed King of Yan. The Langye area was still given to Qi.
Liu Ze died after two years as King of Yan, and Mi paid tribute to him.
His son Kang Wang Liu Jia succeeded to the throne and died in the ninth year.
Dingguo, the son of King Kang, succeeded to the throne.
Dingguo committed adultery with his father's concubine. She gave birth to a boy, took his sister-in-law as a concubine, and committed adultery with her three daughters.
Dingguo planned to kill the Ying people, the magistrate of Feiru County. The Ying people and others reported to the court, and Dingguo sent envoys to kill the Ying people and silence them for violating other laws.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至元朔中，郢人昆弟复上书具言定国事。
下公卿，皆议曰： 定国禽兽行，乱人伦，逆天道，当诛。
上许之。
定国自杀，立四十二年，国除。
哀帝时继绝世，乃封敬王泽玄孙之孙无终公士归生为营陵侯，更始中为兵所杀。
吴王濞，高帝兄仲之子也。
高帝立仲为代王。
匈奴攻代，仲不能坚守，弃国间行，走雒阳，自归，天子不忍致法，废为合阳侯。
子濞，封为沛侯。
黥布反，高祖自将往诛之。
濞年二十，以骑将从破布军。
荆王刘贾为布所杀，无后。
上患吴会稽轻悍，无壮王填之，诸子少，乃立濞于沛，为吴王，王三郡五十三城。
已拜受印，高祖召濞相之，曰： 若状有反相。
独悔，业已拜，因拊其背曰： 汉后五十年东南有乱，岂若邪？
然天下同姓一家，慎无反！
濞顿首曰： 不敢。
会孝惠、高后时天下初定，郡国诸侯各务自拊循其民。
吴有豫章郡铜山，即招致天下亡命者盗铸钱，东煮海水为盐，以故无赋，国用饶足。
孝文时，吴太子入见，得侍皇太子饮博。
吴太子师傅皆楚人，轻悍，又素骄。
博争道，不恭，皇太子引博局提吴太子，杀之。于是遣其丧归葬吴。
吴王愠曰： 天下一宗，死长安即葬长安，何必来葬！
复遣丧之长安葬。
吴王由是怨望，稍失藩臣礼，称疾不朝。
translation: 
During the Yuanshuo period, the brothers of the Ying people once again wrote to the court to report Dingguo's crimes in detail.
Emperor Wu asked the ministers to discuss it, and they all said: Dingguo's behavior is like an animal, messing up human relations and violating the will of God, and he should be punished with death.
The emperor approved this proposal.
Dingguo then committed suicide. Forty-two years after the establishment of the feudal state, it was abolished.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, in order to continue the vassal family that had cut off the feudal state, Liu Guisheng, Liu Ze's great-great-grandson's grandson from Wuzhong County, who had only a first-class title, was granted the title of Marquis of Yingling. During the Gengshi period, Liu Guisheng was killed by soldiers.
King Wu Liu Bi was the son of Liu Zhong, brother of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Gao made Liu Zhong the acting king.
When the Xiongnu attacked Dai, Liu Zhong could not hold on, so he secretly abandoned the country and fled, returning to the capital Chang'an from Luoyang. The emperor could not bear to bring him to justice, so he deposed him from the throne and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Heyang.
His son Liu Bi was granted the title of Marquis of Pei.
King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled, and Emperor Gaozu personally led troops to attack him.
At this time, Liu Bi was twenty years old and followed Gaozu as a cavalry general to defeat Yingbu.
After King Liu Mai of Jing was killed by Ting Bu, he had no descendants.
Emperor Gaozu was worried that the people of Wu County and Kuaiji County were frivolous and fierce, and there were no powerful princes to control them. His son was still young, so he appointed Liu Bi as King of Wu in Pei, with jurisdiction over three counties and fifty-three cities.
After receiving the seal, Emperor Gaozu summoned him and gave him a face, saying: You have the appearance of rebellion.
I regretted that I should not have sealed him, but I could not take back my life, so I patted Liu Bi on the back and said: Fifty years after the founding of the Han Dynasty, there will be a rebellion in the southeast. Could it be you?
However, everyone with the same surname is one family, so don’t rebel!
Liu Bi kowtowed and said, "I don't dare."
During the reign of Emperor Hui and Empress Lu, due to the initial order of the world, all the princes in the prefectures and states were devoted to the rule of their own countries.
There was a copper-producing mountain in Yuzhang County of the State of Wu, which led to desperadoes from all over to steal coins and boil seawater in the southeast to make salt. Therefore, no taxes were collected from the people, and the country's finances were very rich.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, Prince Wu went to the capital for an audience and was able to accompany the crown prince to drink and play chess.
Prince Wu's masters were all from Chu, so he was as frivolous, fierce, arrogant and wanton as the Chu people.
When they were playing chess, they were competing for moves and were disrespectful to the crown prince. The crown prince raised the chessboard and threw it at Prince Wu, killing him and sending his body back to the state of Wu for burial.
King Wu said angrily: "Everyone with the same surname in the world is one family. If you die in Chang'an, you will be buried in Chang'an. Why should you be buried in Wu!"
He also sent Prince Wu's body back to Chang'an for burial.
As a result, the King of Wu became dissatisfied and gradually lost the etiquette of the princes towards the Han court. He pretended to be ill and refused to see the emperor.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
京师知其以子故，验问实不病，诸吴使来，辄系责治之。
吴王恐，所谋滋甚。
及后使人为秋请，上复责问吴使者。
使者曰： 察见渊中鱼，不祥。
今吴王始诈疾，及觉，见责急，愈益闭，恐上诛之，计乃无聊。
唯上与更始。
于是天子皆赦吴使者归之，而赐吴王几杖，老，不朝。
吴得释，其谋亦益解。
然其居国以铜盐故，百姓无赋。
卒践更，辄予平贾。
岁时存问茂材，赏赐闾里，它郡国吏欲来捕亡人者，颂共禁不与。
如此者三十余年，以故能使其众。
朝错为太子家令，得幸皇太子，数从容言吴过可削。
数上书说之，文帝宽，不忍罚，以此吴王日益横。
及景帝即位，错为御史大夫，说上曰： 昔高帝初定天下，昆弟少，诸子弱，大封同姓，故孽子悼惠王王齐七十二城，庶弟元王王楚四十城，兄子王吴五十余城。
封三庶孽，分天下半。
今吴王前有太子之隙，诈称病不朝，于古法当诛。
文帝不忍，因赐几杖，德至厚也。
不改过自新，乃益骄恣，公即山铸钱，煮海为盐，诱天下亡人谋作乱逆。
今削之亦反，不削亦反。
削之，其反亟，祸小；不削之，其反迟，祸大。
translation: 
The imperial court knew that it was because his son was killed, and after examination, he was actually not sick. Therefore, every time Wu sent envoys to him, he was always arrested and punished.
King Wu was afraid and even more determined to rebel against the court.
Later, Liu Bi asked someone to pay his respects to the emperor on his behalf, and Emperor Wen again questioned the envoy from Wu.
The messenger said: It would be unlucky for the emperor to find out about the private affairs of his ministers and cause them to worry and change.
Now the king of Wu began to lie about being ill, and the emperor noticed it. Seeing that he was punished quickly, he hid his conspiracy even more.
He was afraid that the emperor would kill him, and his plan would be of no benefit to the court.
It would be best if the emperor pardoned his past crimes. Therefore, the emperor pardoned all the Wu envoys and released them back to Wu. He also rewarded King Wu with Pingji and a walking stick, saying that King Wu was old and could not visit the emperor in the capital.
After King Wu was acquitted, his conspiracy became even more unscrupulous.
However, the state of Wu had profits from copper and salt, so the people did not have to pay taxes; if there were those who had to do hard labor, the government would also pay for them.
Every New Year's Day, we should visit the talented and learned people and give rewards to the residents of the village.
Officials from other counties were sent to the state of Wu to arrest criminals who had fled to Wu. The state of Wu also acquitted them of their crimes and strictly prohibited them.
It was governed like this for more than thirty years, and the king of Wu was able to serve his people.
Shi Chaocuo was the prince's family order and gained the prince's favor. He talked about King Wu's sins more than once and advocated cutting off his land and punishing him.
He also wrote to Emperor Wen several times about this matter. Emperor Wen was kind-hearted and could not bear to punish him, so King Wu became more and more arrogant.
Later, when Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo was appointed as the imperial censor. He told the emperor: Once upon a time, when the great ancestor first established the world, he had few brothers and his sons were young, so he made the same surnames the princes and kings. Therefore, Liu Fei, the concubine of Emperor Gaozu, was the King of Qi Huihui, and had jurisdiction over seventy-two cities; Liu Jiao, the concubine, was the King of Chu Yuan, and was in charge of forty cities in Chu; and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was the King of Wu, and was in charge of more than fifty cities in Wu.
These three vassal states occupy half of the country's land.
Now because his son was killed, the King of Wu lied about being ill and did not come to court. According to ancient laws, he should be executed.
Emperor Wen couldn't bear to execute King Wu, but instead rewarded him with a pen and a cane. His kindness to him was so profound.
However, instead of reforming his ways, the King of Wu became even more arrogant and indulgent. He openly minted money on the mountains and boiled seawater into salt, luring people fleeing from all directions to plot rebellion.
If his territory is reduced, he will rebel, and if it is not reduced, he will rebel.
If it is reduced, he will rebel faster and cause less harm; if his territory is not reduced, he will rebel later and cause greater harm.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
三年冬，楚王来朝，错因言楚王戊往年为薄太后服，私奸服舍，请诛之。
诏赦，削东海郡。
及前二年，赵王有罪，削其常山郡。
胶西王卬以卖爵事有奸，削其六县。
汉廷臣方议削吴，吴王恐削地无已，因欲发谋举事。
念诸侯无足与计者，闻胶西王勇，好兵，诸侯皆畏惮之，于是乃使中大夫应高口说胶西王曰： 吴王不肖，有夙夜之忧，不敢自外，使使臣谕其愚心。
王曰： 何以教之？
高曰： 今者主上任用邪臣，听信谗贼，变更律令，侵削诸侯，征求滋多，诛罚良重，日以益甚。
语有之曰： 狧糠及米。
吴与胶西，知名诸侯也，一时见察，不得安肆矣。
吴王身有内疾，不能朝请二十余年，常患见疑，无以自白，胁肩累足，犹惧不见释。
窃闻大王以爵事有过，所闻诸侯削地，罪不至此，此恐不止削地而已。
王曰： 有之，子将奈何？
高曰： 同恶相助，同好相留，同情相求，同欲相趋，同利相死。
今吴王自以与大王同忧，愿因时循理，弃躯以除患于天下，意亦可乎？
胶西王瞿然骇曰： 寡人何敢如是？
主上虽急，固有死耳，安得不事？
高曰； 御史大夫朝错营或天子，侵夺诸侯，蔽忠塞贤，朝廷疾怨，诸侯皆有背叛之意，人事极矣。
彗星出，蝗虫起，此万世一时，而愁劳，圣人所以起也。
translation: 
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, the King of Chu came to see the emperor. Chao Cuo said that King Chu Liu Wu had committed adultery in the mourning room during the mourning period for Empress Dowager Bo a few years ago, and he should be punished with death.
The emperor issued an edict to pardon his capital crime and only reduced his territory of Shuhai County.
Two years ago, King Zhao was guilty and cut off his territory of Changshan County.
Liu Yin, the king of Jiaoxi, committed a crime by selling his official title and was deprived of six counties.
When the ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed reducing the territory of Wu State, the King of Wu was worried that the land reduction would be endless, so he wanted to rebel according to the predetermined plan.
Considering that there was no one among the princes and kings who could scheme with him, I heard that the King of Jiaoxi was brave and fond of military affairs, and the princes were all afraid of him, so he sent Zhongda Yinggao to persuade the King of Jiaoxi and said: King Wu is incompetent and has worries day and night. We are one family, so he sent me to tell you what is on King Wu's mind.
King Jiaoxi said: Any advice?
Ying Gao said: Now the emperor appoints treacherous ministers, listens to slander, changes laws, invades the territories of princes and kings, and expropriates more and more things. The condemnation and punishment are too heavy, and they are increasing day by day.
As the saying goes: When a dog starts eating, he licks the chaff, and then he eats the rice.
Wu and Jiaoxi are famous among the princes. If they are investigated and punished for a while, they will not be able to act safely and indulgently.
King Wu was ill and could not see the emperor for more than twenty years. He was often afraid of being suspected, but could not explain clearly. He spent all day studying on his own, fearing that he would not be released by the court.
I heard that your Majesty once made a mistake in buying and selling official titles, and as a result, your territory was reduced and the punishment was inappropriate. I am afraid that the purpose of the court is not just to reduce the land. King Jiaoxi said: There is such a thing.
What do you want?
Ying Gao said: If you want to do bad things together, you should help each other; if you are friendly together, you should leave the benefits to each other; if you want to sympathize with each other, you should satisfy each other's requests for help; if you have a common desire, you should rush forward together; if you want to share common interests, you should fight to the death to pursue them together.
Now the King of Wu thinks that he is worried about the same thing as the King, and is willing to follow the timing and the laws of things, even if it means sacrificing his own life, in order to eliminate the disaster in the world. Do you think it's okay?
King Jiaoxi looked at him in surprise and said: How dare I do this?
Although the emperor is forcing us to be very anxious, we only have one chance of death. How can we disobey him?
Ying Gao said: Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, seduced the emperor, invaded the princes, and blocked the loyal and virtuous. All the ministers in the dynasty resented him, and all the princes and kings wanted to rebel. The matter was extremely bad.
Comet appears in the sky and locusts appear on the earth. This is rare in all the world. When the people are worried and laboring, it is time for the saint to take action.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
吴王内以朝错为诛，外从大王后车，方洋天下，所向者降，所指者下，莫敢不服。
大王诚幸而许之一言，则吴王率楚王略函谷关，守荥阳敖仓之粟，距汉兵，治次舍，须大王。
大王幸而临之，则天下可并，两主分割，不亦可乎？ 王曰： 善。
归报吴王，犹恐其不果，乃身自为使者，至胶西面约之。
胶西群臣或闻王谋，谏曰： 诸侯地不能为汉十二，为叛逆以忧太后，非计也。
今承一帝，尚云不易，假令事成，两主分争，患乃益生。
王不听，遂发使约齐、菑川、胶东、济南，皆许诺。
诸侯既新削罚，震恐，多怨错。
及削吴会稽、豫章郡书至，则吴王先起兵，诛汉吏二千石以下。
胶西、胶东、菑川、济南、楚、赵亦皆反，发兵西。
齐王后悔，背约城守。济北王城坏未完，其郎中令劫守王，不得发兵。
胶西王、胶东王为渠率，与菑川、济南共攻围临菑。
赵王遂亦阴使匈奴与连兵。
七国之发也，吴王悉其士卒，下令国中曰： 寡人年六十二，身自将。少子年十四，亦为士卒先。
诸年上与寡人同，下与少子等，皆发！
二十余万人。
南使闽、东越，闽、东越亦发兵从。
孝景前三年正月甲子，初起兵于广陵。西涉淮，因并楚兵。
发使遗诸侯书曰： 吴王刘濞敬问胶西王、胶东王、菑川王、济南王、赵王、楚王、淮南王、衡山王、庐江山、故长沙王子：幸教！以汉有贼臣错，无功天下，侵夺诸侯之地，使吏劾系讯治，以侵辱之为故，不以诸侯人君礼遇刘氏骨肉，绝先帝功臣，进任奸人，诳乱天下，欲危社稷。
陛下多病志逸，不能省察。
欲举兵诛之，谨闻教。
translation: 
King Wu's purpose for the Han court was to get rid of Chao Cuo, and for the princes, he followed the king and galloped around the world, surrendering wherever he went; wherever the army attacked, it collapsed, and no one dared to disobey.
If the king sincerely agrees and gives me a reply, then the king of Wu will lead the king of Chu to seize Hangu Pass, guard the food in Rongyang Aocang, resist the Han soldiers, build a simple house for the march to stop, and wait for the king.
If the king is lucky enough to come, then the world can be annexed and divided and ruled by Wu and Jiaoxi. Isn't this feasible? The king of Jiaoxi said: "Treachery."
Ying Gao went back and reported the situation to King Wu. The King of Wu was also worried that the King of Jiaoxi would not fulfill his promise, so he personally sneaked to Jiaoxi as an envoy and made an agreement with Liu Yin face to face.
Some of the ministers of the Jiaoxi Kingdom learned about the King of Jiaoxi's plan and advised him: "The territory owned by the princes is only two-tenths of the imperial court. It is not a good strategy to make the Queen Mother sad because of rebellion."
It is not easy to serve an emperor now. If the rebellion succeeds and two emperors compete for power, there will be more disasters.
The King of Jiaoxi did not listen to the advice, but sent envoys separately to make appointments with Qi, Miaochuan, Jiaoqiang, and Jinan, and they all agreed.
The princes were shocked and frightened by the new punishment of cutting off their lands, and most of them resented Chao Cuo.
When Shaoshu, who had beheaded Wu's Kuaiji and Yuzhang counties, arrived, the king of Wu first rebelled and executed the officials in the Wu court who were under two thousand stones.
The countries of Jiaoxi, Micelle, Miaochuan, Jinan, Chu, and Zhao then rebelled and marched westward.
At this time, the King of Qi regretted and broke his promise and defended the city without sending troops. Because the city wall was not repaired, the King of Jibei was threatened by his Lang Zhongling and was not allowed to send troops.
The two kings of Jiaoxi and Miaojie were the commanders, and together with the king of Miaochuan and the king of Jinan, they jointly besieged Linli.
King Liu Sui also secretly asked the Xiongnu to join forces with him.
When the joint rebellion of the seven countries began, King Wu invested all his troops and issued an order to the country: I am now sixty-two years old, and I personally lead the troops on the expedition; my youngest son, who is fourteen years old, also leads the army.
All Chinese citizens who are older than sixty-two and younger than fourteen years old must join the army.
A total of more than 200,000 people were recruited.
At the same time, envoys were sent to Fujian and Shuyue in the south, and the two countries also sent troops to accompany them.
In the first month of the first year of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, King Liu Bi of Wu first raised his troops in Guangling, crossed the Huaihe River to the west, and joined the Chu troops.
He sent envoys to send letters to all the princes and kings, saying: King Wu Liu Bijing greeted and asked for advice from the princes of Jiaoxi, Miaochuan, Jinan, Zhao, Chu, Huainan, Hengshan, Lujiang, and the late Changsha: Because there was a thief in the Han court named Chao Cuo, he had no merit, but he invaded the territories of the princes, and made the officials expose, imprison, interrogate, and punish the princes. It was his duty to plunder and insult the princes. He did not treat the Liu family members with the courtesy of princes, did not honor the late emperor's meritorious officials, used evil people, used deceptive words to harm the world, and put the country in danger.
The emperor was sick and obsessed with happiness and could not see the truth clearly.
Therefore, I want to raise my troops to kill Chao Cuo, and I would like to ask everyone for advice.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
敝国虽狭，地方三千里；人民虽少，精兵可具五十万。
寡人素事南越三十余年，其王诸君皆不辞分其兵以随寡人，又可得三十万。
寡人虽不肖，愿以身从诸王。
南越直长沙者，因王子定长沙以北，西走蜀、汉中。
告越、楚王、淮南三王，与寡人西面；齐诸王与赵王定河间、河内，或入临晋关，或与寡人会雒阳；燕王、赵王故与胡王有约，燕王北定代、云中，转胡众入萧关，走长安，匡正天下，以安高庙。愿王勉之。
楚元王子、淮南三王或不沐洗十余年，怨入骨髓，欲壹有所出久矣，寡人未得诸王之意，未敢听。
今诸王苟能存亡继绝，振弱伐暴，以安刘氏，社稷所愿也。
吴国虽贫，寡人节衣食用，积金钱，修兵革，聚粮食，夜以继日，三十余年矣。
凡皆为此，愿诸王勉之。
能斩捕大将者，赐金五千斤，封万户；列将，三千斤，封五千户；裨将，二千斤，封二千户；二千石，千斤，封千户：皆为列侯。
其以军若城邑降者，卒万人，邑万户，如得大将；人户五千，如得列将；人户三千，如得裨将；人户千，如得二千石；其小吏皆以差次受爵金。
它封赐皆倍军法。
其有故爵邑者，更益勿因。
愿诸王明以令士大夫，不敢欺也。
寡人金钱在天下者往往而有，非必取于吴，诸王日夜用之不能尽。
有当赐者告寡人，寡人且往遗之。
敬以闻。
translation: 
Although our country is small, with a radius of only 3,000 units, and although its population is small, it has 500,000 elite soldiers.
I have worshiped the South Vietnamese Kingdom for more than thirty years, and its king and leaders are willing to detach troops to support me, so I can get another three hundred thousand people.
Although I am incompetent, I am willing to follow the kings myself.
The South Vietnamese soldiers attacked the Changsha Kingdom from the north. After the prince pacified the north of Changsha, they then attacked Shujun and Mozhong westward.
Inform King Shuyue, King Chu, and the three kings of Huainan, Jibei, and Hengshan to march westward with me. After the kings of Qi and King Tou pacify Hejian and Hanoi, they will either enter Linjin Pass or join me at Luoyang; King Yan , King Zhao had an agreement with the Xiongnu Chanyu. After King Yan pacified Dai and Yunzhong in the north, he led the Xiongnu soldiers into Xiaoguan and took the capital Chang'an directly to save the world, secure the temple of Gaodi, and encourage all the kings.
The prince of Chu Yuan and the three kings of Huainan, Hengshan and Jibei have not received favor from the court for more than ten years, so they hate Moting deeply and have wanted to send troops to attack the Han Dynasty for a long time. I did not get the opinions of the kings and did not dare to listen to them.
Now, if the kings can save the country from subjugation, succeed in the peerless era, revitalize the weak, defeat the tyrannical, and stabilize the Liu family, it will be a great blessing for the country.
Although the state of Wu is poor, for more than thirty years I have scrimped on food and clothing, accumulated money, trained the army at night, and hoarded food.
All this is for this reason, and I would like to work with all the kings to achieve it.
Anyone who can capture and kill a general will be rewarded with five thousand jins of gold and be granted the title of 10,000 households; if he captures and beheads a general, he will be rewarded with 3,000 jins of gold and be granted the title of 5,000 households; if he captures and beheads a general, he will be rewarded with 2,000 jins of gold and be granted the title of 2,000 households.
If a person comes to surrender with an army and a city or land under his jurisdiction, and if he brings ten thousand soldiers and households each, the reward will be the same as if he captured a general; if he brings five thousand soldiers and households each, his reward will be the same as if he captures and kills a general; if he brings three thousand soldiers and three thousand households, he will be treated as if he captured and beheaded a general; if he brings one thousand soldiers and one thousand households, he will be treated as if he captures and kills a general. Other ordinary minor officials can enjoy titles and bounties according to their levels.
The rewards given were twice as many as those stipulated by the Han court.
Those with original titles and fiefs will be given additional rewards in addition to retaining their original titles.
I hope that the kings will openly announce it to the scholar-bureaucrats and others and not dare to deceive.
My gold and coins are available everywhere in the world, not necessarily from Wu, and the kings can use them day and night.
If there is anyone who deserves a reward, you can tell me and I will send someone to send gold and coins.
We respectfully inform you of the above situation.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
七国反书闻，天子乃遣太尉条侯周亚夫将三十六将军往击吴、楚；遣曲周侯郦寄击赵，将军栾布击齐，大将军窦婴屯荥阳监齐、赵兵。
初，吴、楚反书闻，兵未发，窦婴言故吴相爰盎。
召入见，上问以吴、楚之计，盎对曰： 吴、楚相遗书，曰 贼臣朝错擅適诸侯，削夺之地 ，以故反，名为 西共诛错，复故地而罢 。
方今计独斩错，发使赦七国，复其故地，则兵可毋血刃而俱罢。
上从其议，遂斩错。
语具有《盎传》。
以盎为泰常，奉宗庙，使吴王，吴王弟子德侯为宗正，辅亲戚。
使至吴，吴、楚兵已攻梁壁矣。
宗正以亲故，先入见，谕吴王拜受诏。
吴王闻盎来，亦知其欲说，笑而应曰： 我已为东帝，尚谁拜？
不肯见盎而留军中，欲劫使将。
盎不肯，使人围守，且杀之。
盎得夜亡走梁，遂归报。
条侯将乘六乘传，会兵荥阳。
至雒阳，见剧孟，喜曰： 七国反，吾乘传至此，不自意全。
又以为诸侯已得剧孟，孟今无动，吾据荥阳，荥阳以东无足忧者。
至淮阳，向故父绛侯客邓都尉曰： 策安出？
客曰： 吴兵锐甚，难与争锋。楚兵轻，不能久。
方今为将军计，莫若引兵东北壁昌邑，以梁委吴，吴必尽锐攻之。
将军深沟高垒，使轻兵绝淮泗口，塞吴饷道。
translation: 
When the Han court learned about the rebellion of the seven kingdoms, Emperor Jing sent Taiwei and Tiaohou Zhou Yafu to lead thirty-six generals to attack Wu and Chu; he sent Quzhou Hou Liji to lead troops to attack Tongguo; he sent General Lebu to lead troops to attack Qi; and General Dou Ying was stationed in Rongyang to monitor the movements of the Qi and Zhao armies.
At the beginning, when the news of Wu and Chu's rebellion had just been heard and before troops were sent out, Dou Ying told the emperor about Yuan An, the former prime minister of the state of Wu.
The emperor then summoned Yuan Ang and asked about strategies to resolve Wu Chu's rebellion. Yuan Cong said: Wu and Chu communicated with each other, and they both said that the traitor Chao Cuo had monopolized power, demoted the princes, reduced the invasion of the princes' fiefdoms, and rebelled because of this, which was called a crusade to the west. They jointly killed Chao Cuo, restored the original fiefdoms, and then stopped the army.
The only plan now is to put Chao Cuo to death, send envoys to pardon the sins of the seven kingdoms, and restore the original fiefdoms of the seven kingdoms. Then there will be no need to fight with swords, and bloodshed and sacrifice can be avoided.
The emperor followed his advice and beheaded Chao Cuo.
The details are recorded in "The Biography of Yuan Ang".
Therefore, Yuan Ang was granted the title of Taichang, in charge of worshiping at the ancestral temple, and sent an envoy to see the King of Wu. Dehou, the nephew of the King of Wu, was a Zongzhengguan and was sent to the State of Wu as an auxiliary envoy because he was closely related to Wu.
By the time they arrived at Wu State, the armies of Wu and Chu were already attacking the military camp of Liang State.
Because Zong Zheng was a relative, he went to see the King of Wu first and ordered the King to kneel down and accept the edict.
King Wu heard that Yuan An was coming and knew what he wanted to say. He smiled and replied: I am already Emperor Shu, who do I still want to bow to?
He refused to see Yuan An and detained him in the army, trying to force him to become a general of Wu.
Yuan Ang refused to agree, so the King of Wu sent troops to surround him and prepare to kill him.
Yuan An fled to Liang State at night, then returned to the capital and reported the situation to the emperor.
Tiaohou Zhou Yafu took six official carriages to pass the news and mobilized the army to join forces in Rongyang.
When he arrived at Luoyang, he met Ju Meng and said happily: "The Seven Kingdoms rebelled. I arrived here in an official car. I didn't expect that I could reach here safely."
I thought the rebellious princes had obtained Ju Meng. Now that Ju Meng has not wavered, I have occupied Rongyang, so there is no need to worry about the area east of Rongyang.
When he arrived in Huaiyang, he asked Captain Deng, who was his father's aide to Jianghou Zhoubo, "What's your plan?"
Captain Deng said: Wu's army is very elite, and it is difficult to win between them. The Chu army was impetuous and could not stay long.
Now for the general's plan, it is better to lead troops to the northeast and garrison Changyi, leaving Liang State to Wu State. Wu State will definitely attack Liang State with all its elite troops.
The generals dug deep trenches, built high fortifications, and sent light troops to guard the entrances and exits of the Huaihe River and the Swimming River to cut off Wu's food and salary supply.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
使吴、梁相敝而粮食竭，乃以全制其极，破吴必矣。
条侯曰： 善。 从其策，遂坚壁昌邑南，轻兵绝吴饷道。
吴王之初发也，吴臣田禄伯为大将军。
田禄伯曰： 兵屯聚而西，无它奇道，难以立功。
臣愿得五万人，别循江、淮而上，收淮南、长沙，入武关，与大王会，此亦一奇也。
吴王太子谏曰： 王以反为名，此兵难以藉人，人亦且反王，奈何？
且擅兵而别，多它利害，徒自损耳。
吴王即不许田禄伯。
吴少将桓将军说王曰： 吴多步兵，步兵利险；汉多车骑，车骑利平地。
愿大王所过城不下，直去，疾西据雒阳武库，食敖仓粟，阻山河之险以令诸侯，虽无入关，天下固已定矣。
大王徐行，留下城邑，汉军车骑至，驰入梁、楚之郊，事败矣。
吴王问吴老将，老将曰： 此年少推锋可耳，安知大虑！
于是王不用桓将军计。
王专并将其兵，未度淮，诸宾客皆得为将、校尉、行间侯、司马，独周丘不用。
周丘者，下邳人，亡命吴，酤酒无行，王薄之，不任。
周丘乃上谒，说王曰： 臣以无能，不得待罪行间。
臣非敢求有所将也，愿请王一汉节，必有以报。
王乃予之。
周丘得节，夜驰入下邳。
下邳时闻吴反，皆城守。
至传舍，召令入户，使从者以罪斩令。
遂召昆弟所善豪吏告曰： 吴反兵且至，屠下邳下过食顷。
今先下，家室必完，能者封侯至矣。
translation: 
Wu and Chu are exhausted and short of food and grass. We use the advantages of complete equipment and materials to control the disadvantageous situation of Wu and Chu who are eager to end the war due to lack of food and materials. This will definitely defeat Wu. Zhou Yafu heard this and said: This plan is very clever.
Therefore, he followed his strategy and stood firm to the south of Changyi. At the same time, he sent light troops to cut off Wu's grain transportation road.
When King Wu first started his army, his minister Tian Lubo was the general.
He said to the King of Wu: It is difficult to achieve success by gathering the troops to the west. There is no other way to win by surprise.
I am willing to lead 50,000 people to advance along the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, recover Huainan and Changsha, enter Wuguan, and then join the king. This is also a good plan.
The Crown Prince of Wu advised: Your Majesty raised the army in the name of fighting against the Desert, and it is difficult to lend the army to others to lead. What if others also rise up against King Wu?
Moreover, if someone else takes over the military power and divides the troops, if something goes against me, it will only be a waste of losses for myself.
King Wu therefore did not agree to Tian Lubo's request.
General Huan, the young general of Wu State, persuaded the King of Wu: Wu State has many infantry, which is beneficial to fighting in dangerous places; there are many chariots and cavalry in Moting, which is beneficial to fighting in plains.
I hope that if the city that the king passes through is not captured, he can go straight west for the time being, quickly occupy the weapons depot in Luoyang, seize the grain of Aocang, occupy the dangerous places on the mountains and rivers, and use this to command the princes. Then, even if he does not enter the pass, the world will be peaceful.
If the king marches slowly and stays in every city he encounters, once the desert army comes with chariots and cavalry and enters the outskirts of Liang and Chu, the war will fail.
The King of Wu asked the old generals for their opinions. The old generals said: This man is young. Although he can charge into battle, how can he know how to make foresight?
Therefore, the King of Wu did not adopt General Huan's strategy.
The King of Wu took over the power and personally led the troops. Before crossing the Huaihe River, many of his guests were named generals, lieutenants, marquises of Xingjian, Sima and other officials, but Zhou Qiu was not appointed.
Zhou Qiu, a native of Xiapi, was guilty of a crime and fled to the state of Wu. He was engaged in the wine business and behaved badly. The king of Wu looked down on him, so he did not appoint him.
So Zhou Qiu asked to see the King of Wu and said to the King of Wu: Because I am incompetent, I cannot take the blame and serve in the army.
I dare not ask the king to bring me some troops. I only hope that the king will give me a Desert Talisman Festival, and I will definitely repay you.
The king of Wu then gave him the Han Fu Festival.
Zhou Qiu got Hanjie and quickly entered Xiapi at night.
At that time, Xiapi had heard about Wu's rebellion, and they all defended the city.
Zhou Qiu arrived at the inn, summoned the county magistrate into the room, and announced the magistrate's crime. Let the attendants execute the county magistrate.
Then he called together the powerful officials who were friendly with his brothers and said: Wu: Zheng's troops are coming. It only takes one meal to kill all the people in Xiapi City.
Now that we surrender to Wu, everyone's family members and properties will definitely be saved, and the opportunity for those with great ability to fight for the title of marquis has arrived.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
出乃相告，下邳皆下。
周丘一夜得三万人，使人报吴王，遂将其兵北略城邑。
比至城阳，兵十余万，破城阳中尉军。
闻吴王败走，自度无与共成功，即引兵归下邳。
未至，痈发背死。
二月，吴王兵既破，败走，于是天子制诏将军： 盖闻为善者天报以福，为非者天报以殃。
高皇帝亲垂功德，建立诸侯，幽王、悼惠王绝无后，孝文皇帝哀怜加惠，王幽王子遂、悼惠王子卬等，令奉其先王宗庙，为汉藩国，德配天地，明并日月。
而吴王濞背德反义，诱受天下亡命罪人，乱天下币，称疾不朝二十余年。
有司数请濞罪，孝文皇帝宽之，欲其改行为善。
今乃与楚王戊、赵王遂、胶西王卬、济南王辟光、菑川王贤、胶东王雄渠约从谋反，为逆无道，起兵以危宗庙，贼杀大臣及汉使者，迫劫万民，伐杀无罪，烧残民家，掘其丘垄，甚为虐暴。
而卬等又重逆无道，烧宗庙，卤御物，联甚痛之。
联服避正殿，将军其劝士大夫击反虏。
击反虏者，深入多杀为功，斩首捕虏比三百石以上皆杀，无有所置。
敢有议诏及不如诏者，皆要斩。
初，吴王之度淮，与楚王遂西败棘壁，乘胜而前，锐甚。
梁孝王恐，遣将军击之，又败梁两军，士卒皆还走。
梁数使使条侯求救，条侯不许。
translation: 
After these people went out, they informed each other, so Xiapi City surrendered.
Zhou Qiu obtained 30,000 soldiers overnight, so he sent people to report to the king of Wu and led his soldiers to attack the city and seize the territory in the north.
By the time they arrived in Chengyang, they had more than 100,000 soldiers and defeated the lieutenant's army in Chengyang.
After hearing the news of King Wu's defeat, he thought that he could not succeed with King Wu, so he returned to Xiapi with his soldiers.
On the way, he died of a poisonous sore on his back.
In February, the king of Wu was defeated and fled. The emperor was General Shao, who said: It is said that those who do good deeds will be rewarded with blessings, and those who do evil will be rewarded with disaster.
The merits of my dynasty will last forever, and I will establish a kingdom of vassals. King You of Zhao and King Hui of Qi had no Gen son to succeed them to the throne. Emperor Wen took pity on them and showed favor to them. He made Liu Sui, the most prosperous son of land reclamation, and Xingsheng, the prince of Pantou, etc., as vassal kings. He ordered them to continue to worship their ancestors' ancestral temples and became vassal states of the Han Dynasty. His kindness can be described as the sky is thick and the earth is thick, and the light is brighter than the moon.
However, King Liu Bi of Wu betrayed his moral integrity, lured outlaws from all over the world, minted coins privately, disrupted the country's currency system, and pretended to be ill and failed to see the emperor on time for more than 20 years.
The competent authorities requested that Liu Bi be punished several times, but Emperor Wen tolerated it and refused to punish him, in order to make him change for the better.
Now, he and King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Tang, King Liu Yin of Jiaoxi, King Liu Biguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Miao Chuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Miao Chuan agreed with each other to conspire against the will of heaven, rebel against the Han Dynasty, and raise troops to overthrow the central dynasty. The rebels killed the ministers and envoys of the Han Dynasty, forcibly robbed the people, killed innocent people indiscriminately, burned down people's houses, and dug up people's graves. They were very cruel.
But Liu Yin and others were even more rebellious and unscrupulous. They burned down the ancestral temples in the prefectures and looted the clothes and utensils used in the ancestral temples. I hated them very much.
Now I wear plain clothes and do not go to the main hall. I hope the generals will mobilize the scholar-bureaucrats to fight against these rebels.
In order to attack the rebels, they killed many people and went deep into the ground to plan their merits. Rebels with a salary of more than 300 dan were killed and were not allowed to be released.
Anyone who dares to discuss the edict or not do what it requires will be cut in half.
It turned out that after the King of Wu crossed the Huaihe River, he and the King of Chu went west to defeat the Liang army of Liu Wu, the younger brother of Emperor Jing, at Jibi. They took advantage of the victory and advanced to attack, making them unstoppable.
King Xiao of Liang was afraid of this and sent generals to attack him. The Wu and Chu armies defeated the two armies of Liang Guo again, and the soldiers all fled back.
King Xiao of Liang sent envoys several times to ask for help from Taiwei Zhou Yafu, but Zhou Yafu did not come to his rescue.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
又使使诉条侯于上，上使告条侯救梁，又守便宜不行。
梁使韩安国及楚死事相弟张羽为将军，乃得颇败吴兵。
吴兵欲西，梁城守，不敢西，即走条侯军，会下邑。
欲战，条侯壁，不肯战。
吴粮绝，卒饥，数挑战，遂夜奔条侯壁，惊东南。条侯使备西北，果从西北。
不得入，吴大败，士卒多饥死叛散。
于是吴王乃与其戏下壮士千人夜亡去，度淮走丹徒，保东越。
东越兵可万余人，使人收聚亡卒。
汉使人以利啖东越，东越即绐吴王，吴王出劳军，使人鏦杀吴王，盛其头，驰传以闻。
吴王太子驹亡走闽越。
吴王之弃军亡也，军遂溃，往往稍降太尉条侯及梁军。
楚王戊军败，自杀。
三王之围齐临菑也，三月不能下。
汉兵至，胶西、胶东、菑川王各引兵归国。胶西王徒跣，席稿，饮水，谢太后。
王太子德曰： 汉兵还，臣观之以罢，可袭，愿收王余兵击之，不胜而逃入海，未晚也。
王曰： 吾士卒皆已坏，不可用之。
不听。
汉将弓高侯颓当遗王书曰： 奉诏诛不义，降者赦，除其罪，复故；不降者灭之。
王何处？须以从事。
王肉袒叩头汉军壁，谒曰： 臣卬奉法不谨，惊骇百姓，乃苦将军远道至于穷国，敢请菑醢之罪。
弓高侯执金鼓见之，曰： 王苦军事，愿闻王发兵状。
王顿首膝行对曰： 今者，朝错天子用事臣，变更高皇帝法令，侵夺诸侯地。
translation: 
He also sent envoys to report Zhou Yafu's attitude to the emperor. The emperor sent people to ask Zhou Yafu to rescue Liang, but Zhou Yafu did not send troops to rescue Liang due to special circumstances.
The king of Liang then sent Han Anguo and Zhang Yu, the brother of Zhang Shang, the prime minister of Chu, who had killed himself to stop Chu's rebellion, as generals to lead the army, and they were able to slightly defeat the Wu army.
Wu soldiers wanted to advance westward, but Liang's cities were well defended, so they did not dare to go westward and instead ran towards Zhou Yafu's army.
In Xiayi, the Wu army asked for a fight, but Zhou Yafu stood firm and refused to fight.
The Wu army was out of food and the soldiers were hungry. They challenged Zhou Yafu several times, so they attacked Zhou Yafu's camp at night and pretended to attack the southeast. Zhou Yafu ordered to guard the northwest.
Sure enough, Wu soldiers attacked from the northwest, but failed to break through. Wu soldiers were defeated. Most of the soldiers starved to death or surrendered and dispersed.
So the king of Wu and his thousands of strong men fled at night. After crossing the Huaihe River, I followed Dantu and surrendered to Shuyue.
Shu Yue had about ten thousand soldiers and sent people to recruit deserters.
The Han court sent people to lure Dongyue, and Dongyue deceived the King of Wu. When the King of Wu came out to comfort the soldiers, he sent people to kill the King of Wu with a spear and halberd, put the King of Wu's head in a wooden box, and reported to the Han court on a flying horse.
Prince Wu Liu Ju fled to Fujian and Yue.
After the death of King Wu, the Wu army collapsed, and soldiers surrendered to Han Taiwei Tiaohou and Liang Jun anytime and anywhere.
King Liu Wu of Chu was defeated and committed suicide.
Jiaoxi, Micelle, Miao! The three kings besieged Linmiao in Qi State, but it lasted three months and still was not broken.
As soon as the Han soldiers arrived, they led their troops back to their countries. After the King of Jiaoxi returned home, he walked barefoot, slept on straw mats, drank plain water, and apologized to the Queen Mother.
His prince Liu De said: The Han army is already withdrawing. I think they are quite tired, so I can attack them. I hope the king will collect the remaining troops and pursue them. If he cannot win, he can escape to the sea before it is too late.
The King of Jiaoxi said: Our soldiers have suffered too many casualties and cannot fight anymore.
Not listening to his son.
The general of the Han Dynasty, Gong Gaohou Han Daodang, sent a letter to the King of Jiaoxi. The letter said: I have come to kill the rebels in accordance with the Emperor's Shao Shu. Those who surrender will have their sins pardoned and their original positions restored; those who do not surrender will be destroyed.
Wherever you go, King of Jiaoxi, I must deal with it accordingly.
The King of Jiaoxi went to the Han army camp with his chest and arms exposed, kowtowed to pay homage, and said: "Your Majesty Liu Yin was not cautious in obeying the law, so he frightened the people. General, I have come all the way to my poor country. Please give me the punishment of being chopped into meat sauce."
Han Dai met him with a golden drum in his hand and said: The King of Jiaoxi is distressed about sending troops to rebel. I am willing to hear your reasons for sending troops.
The King of Jiaoxi kowtowed, walked forward on his knees, and replied: It's like this: Chao Cuo was a minister in power before the emperor. He changed Emperor Gao's decree and invaded the territories of the princes. Liu Yin and others thought it was unfair.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
卬等以为不义，恐其败乱天下，七国发兵，且诛错。
今闻错已诛，卬等谨已罢兵归。
将军曰： 王苟以错为不善，何不以闻？
及未有诏虎符，擅发兵击义国。
以此观之，意非徒欲诛错也！
乃出诏书为王读之，曰： 王其自图之。
王曰： 如卬等死有余罪。
遂自杀。
太后、太子皆死。
胶东、菑川、济南王皆伏诛。
郦将军攻赵，十月而下之，赵王自杀。
济北王以劫故，不诛。初，吴王首反，并将楚兵，连齐、赵。
正月起，三月皆破灭。
赞曰：荆王王也，由汉初定，天下未集，故虽疏属，以策为王，镇江、淮之间。
刘泽发于田生，权激吕氏，然卒南面称孤者三世。
事发相重，岂不危哉！
吴王擅山海之利，能薄敛以使其众，逆乱之萌，自其子兴。
古者诸侯不过百里，山海不以封，盖防此矣。
朝错为国远虑，祸反及身。 毋为权首，将受其咎 ，岂谓错哉！
translation: 
We were afraid that he would bring chaos to the country, so the seven countries sent troops at the same time to kill Chao Cuo.
Now that they heard that Chao Cuo had been killed, Liu Yin and others wanted to withdraw their troops and return home.
Han Daedang said: If the king thinks that Chao Cuo did something bad, why not appeal to the emperor?
At the same time, without the emperor's edict and tiger talisman for sending troops, troops were sent to attack the just country without authorization.
Judging from this, your intention is not just to kill Chao Cuo.
He immediately took out the emperor's edict, read it to King Jiaoxi, and said: Your Majesty, commit suicide.
The King of Jiaoxi said: People like Liu Yin and others deserve to die.
So he committed suicide and died.
The queen mother and the prince also died.
When he was dispatched, the three kings of Miaochuan, Miaochuan and Jinan were also killed.
Li Shiqi led his troops to attack the State of Zhao, and fought for ten months before winning. Liu Sui, the king of Zhao, committed suicide.
The king of Jibei, Liu Zhichu, was coerced and plotted, but later he insisted on not sending troops, so he was pardoned but not killed. At the beginning, it was King Wu who rebelled first. He also led the troops of Chu and contacted Qi and Zhao.
Starting from the first month to the third month, they were all conquered and destroyed.
Zan said: The reason why Jing Wang Liu Jia was named king was because the world was not yet stable, so even though he was a distant relative of the Liu family, he was also named king and sat in the Jianghuai area.
Liu Ze's title of king began with Tian Sheng's plan. He first provoked Empress Lu to grant Lu Chan, and then asked people to ridicule Empress Lu to grant Liu Ze the title of king. Finally, he faced south and was left alone for three generations.
Once the matter is revealed, it will be a serious crime. Isn't it very dangerous?
King Wu Liu Bi had the exclusive advantage of mountains and seas, which could reduce taxes, win over and control the people, and the rebellion plan started when his son was killed.
The ancient vassal states were no more than a hundred miles in radius, not including mountains, forests, rivers and swamps. This was probably to prevent them from rebelling against the central government.
Chao Cuo thought of the country's long-term interests, but disaster struck him and he died. Don't be the mastermind of the rebellion, because you will suffer disaster. Isn't this exactly what Chao Cuo said?


