Chunk 0: 
original: 
萧望之字长倩，东海兰陵人也，徙杜陵。
家世以田为业，至望之，好学，治《齐诗》，事同县后仓且十年。
以令诣太常受业，复事同学博士白奇，又从夏侯胜问《论语》、《礼服》。
京师诸儒称述焉。
是时，大将军霍光秉政，长史丙吉荐儒生王仲翁与望之等数人，皆召见。
先是，左将军上官桀与盖主谋杀光，光既诛桀等，后出入自备。
吏民当见者，露索去刀兵，两吏挟持。
望之独不肯听，自引出阁曰： 不愿见。
吏牵持匈匈。
光闻之，告吏勿持。
望之既至前，说光曰： 将军以功德辅幼主，将以流大化，致于洽平，是以天下之士延颈企踵，争愿自效，以辅高明。
今士见者皆先露索挟持，恐非周公相成王躬吐握之礼，致白屋之意。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi, whose courtesy name is Changqian, was born in Lanling County, Shuhai County, and later moved to Duling.
Farming has been a career for generations. When Xiao Wangzhi arrived, he was interested in learning and studied "Qi Shi". He studied under Houcang from the same county for nearly ten years.
According to the system, he studied under Taichang, and also studied under his former classmate Dr. Bai Qi. He also followed Xia Housheng to discuss "The Analects of Confucius" and "Etiquette". Mourning Clothes".
The Confucian scholars in the capital all praised him.
At that time, General Huo Guang was in power. Chief Shi Bingji recommended Confucian scholars Wang Zhongweng and Xiao Wangzhi, and several others were summoned.
Before this, the left general Shangguan Jie and Princess Gaiyi conspired to assassinate Huo Guang. Huo Guang killed Shangguan Jie and others, and then took precautions when going out.
Officials and common people who must be interviewed must be stripped and searched, their weapons removed, and held hostage by two officials.
Only Xiao Wangzhi refused to obey. He withdrew from the small door and said, "I don't want to see you."
The official pulled him away aggressively.
When Huo Guang heard about this situation, he told the officials not to hold him hostage.
Xiao Wangzhi came to Huo Guang and advised him: "The general assists the young emperor with his merits and virtues, and will implement a grand enlightenment policy to achieve a harmonious and peaceful rule. Therefore, scholars all over the world stretch their necks and stand on their heels, vying to personally serve and assist you, a wise man."
Now the scholars who want to visit you must first be stripped and searched and held hostage. This may not be in line with the courtesy of the Duke of Zhou, who ate three meals, vomited food three times, and washed his hair three times to incur poor scholars.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是光独不除用望之，而仲翁等皆补大将军史。
三岁间，仲翁至光禄大夫、给事中，望之以射策甲科为郎，署小苑东门候。
仲翁出入从仓头庐儿，下车趋门，传呼甚宠，顾谓望之曰： 不肯录录，反抱关为？
望之曰： 各从其志。
后数年，坐弟犯法，不得宿卫，免归为郡吏。
御史大夫魏相除望之为属，察廉为大行治礼丞。
时，大将军光薨，子禹复为大司马，兄子山领尚书，亲属皆宿卫内侍。
地节三年夏，京师雨雹，望之因是上疏，愿赐清闲之宴，口陈灾异之意。
宣帝自在民间闻望之名，曰： 此东海萧生邪？
下少府宋畸问状，无有所讳。
望之对，以为： 《春秋》昭公三年大雨雹，是时季氏专权，卒逐昭公。
乡使鲁君察于天变，宜无此害。
translation: 
At that time, Huo Guang only did not appoint Xiao Wangzhi, and Wang Zhongweng and others were appointed as General Shi.
Within three years, Wang Zhongweng was promoted to Guanglu doctor, and Xiao Wangzhi became a Langguan because he passed the A-level exam, acting as Xiaoyuan East Gate Marquis.
Wang Zhongweng was followed by servants when he came in and out. He got off the car and entered the door. He was greeted in front of and behind him. He was very respectful. He turned around and said to Xiao Wangzhi: You refused to follow the rules and instead just became a gatekeeper.
Xiao Wangzhi said: Everyone pursues his own ambitions.
A few years later, because his younger brother had committed a crime and was in jail, he could no longer serve as a palace guard. He was dismissed and returned to his hometown as a county official.
When Wei Xiang, the imperial censor, appointed Xiao Wangzhi as a subordinate official, he was appointed as the Minister of Ceremonies of Daxing after examination.
At this time, the general Huo Guang passed away, and his son Huo Yu became the chief minister again. His nephew Huo Shan was appointed the minister, and all his relatives served as guards and attendants in the palace.
In the summer of the third year of Dijie, there was hail in the capital. Xiao Wangzhi complained to the emperor about this, hoping that the emperor would give him a chance to tell him the meaning of the natural disaster and vision.
Emperor Xuan heard about Xiao Wangzhi's reputation among the people and said: Is this Xiao Sheng from Shuhai?
Bring him to Shaofu Song Wei to inquire about the situation and ask him not to hide anything.
Xiao Wangzhi answered the inquiry. He believed that "Spring and Autumn" records that there was a hailstorm in the third year of Duke Zhao of Lu. At that time, the Ji family was in power and eventually exiled Duke Zhao of Lu.
If Lu Zhaogong could detect the signs of natural disasters in the past, this disaster would not have happened.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今陛下以圣德居位，思政求贤，尧、舜之用心也。
然而善祥未臻，阴阳不和，是大臣任政，一姓擅势之所致也。
附枝大者贼本心，私家盛者公室危。
唯明主躬万机，选同姓，举贤材，以为腹心，与参政谋，令公卿大臣朝见奏事，明陈其职，以考功能。
如是，则庶事理，公道立，奸邪塞，私权废矣。
对奏，天子拜望之为谒者。
时，上初即位，思进贤良，多上书言便宜，辄下望之问状，高者请丞相御史，次者中二千石试事，满岁以状闻，下者报闻，或罢归田里，所白处奏皆可。
累迁谏大夫，丞相司直，岁中三迁，官至二千石。
translation: 
Now your Majesty is occupying the position of emperor by virtue of being wise and wise. He is thinking about political affairs and seeking talents. This is the intention of Yao and Shun in governing the world.
However, the auspicious omen has not yet appeared, and the yin and yang are not in harmony. This is caused by the ministers being in power and the exclusive power of one surname.
If the branches are too large, they will damage the trunk. If the ministers have too much power, they will endanger the court.
Only a sage monarch personally governs all affairs of the country, selects people with the same surname, appoints talented people, treats them as confidants, plans political affairs with them, orders ministers to report to the emperor, clearly states his responsibilities, and examines their merits and talents.
In this way, all kinds of things can be dealt with, all kinds of things can be dealt with, the way of justice can be established, the way of evil and evil can be blocked, and private rights can be abolished.
This exchange was reported to the emperor, and Emperor Xuan appointed Xiao Wangzhi as the visitor.
At that time, Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne and hoped to promote virtuous people. Many people wrote letters stating strategies that would benefit the country and the people. Emperor Xuan often gave these memorials to Xiao Wangzhi to inquire about the pros and cons. The wise ones were asked to be selected by the prime minister and censor, and the inferior ones were given to Jiuqing for trial. After a year, the situation was reported. The inferior ones were given approval or dismissed from office and sent back to their hometown. Everything Xiao Wangzhi reported was approved.
He was successively promoted to admonish the doctor and prime minister Sizhi. He was promoted three times within a year and became an official of two thousand stone level.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其后霍氏竟谋反诛，望之浸益任用。
是时，选博士、谏大夫通政事者补郡国守、相，以望之为平原太守。
望之雅意在本朝，远为郡守，内不自得，乃上疏曰： 陛下哀愍百姓，恐德化之不究，悉出谏官以补郡吏，所谓忧其末而忘其本者也。
朝无争臣则不知过，国无达士则不闻善。
愿陛下选明经术，温故知新，通于几微谋虑之士以为内臣，与参政事。
诸侯闻之，则知国家纳谏忧政，亡有阙遗。
若此不怠，成、康之道其庶几乎！
外郡不治，岂足忧哉？
书闻，征入守少府。
宣帝察望之经明持重，论议有余，材任宰相，欲详试其政事，复以为左冯翊。
望之从少府出为左迁，恐有不合意，即移病。
上闻之，使侍中、成都侯金安上谕意曰： 所用皆更治民以考功。
君前为平原太守日浅，故复试之于三辅，非有所闻也。
望之即视事。
是岁，西羌反，汉遣后将军征之。
京兆尹张敞上书言： 国兵在外，军以夏发，陇西以北，安定以西，吏民并给转输，田事颇废，素无余积，虽羌虏以破，来春民食必乏。
translation: 
Later, the Huo family was actually executed for treason, and Xiao Wangzhi became even more important.
At this time, doctors and admonishment officials who were knowledgeable in political affairs were being selected to serve as county governors and prime ministers, and Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as the governor of Pingyuan.
Xiao Wangzhi had always wanted to serve in the imperial court, so he was sent to serve as a county guard in a distant place. He didn't like it, so he wrote a memorial saying: Your Majesty is considerate of the people and is worried that moral education will not be popularized, so he sends his admonishers to serve as local officials. It is said that he is worried about the details of things and forgets their roots.
If there are no admonishers in the court, the emperor will not be able to find faults; if there are no knowledgeable people in the capital, the emperor will not be able to hear good words.
I hope that your Majesty will select far-sighted and far-sighted people who understand the classics, are familiar with history, are able to grasp new situations, and are proficient in affairs, as ministers of the DPRK and China to participate in government affairs.
When the princes heard about this situation, they knew that the country had adopted the words of loyalty and advice, and they were worried about politics and there were no mistakes or omissions.
If you persevere like this, the rule of King Zhou Cheng and King Zhou Kang will almost be realized!
Is it worth worrying about the poor governance of local counties?
After his memorial was submitted, he was recruited into the imperial court to manage the Shaofu.
Emperor Xuan learned that Xiao Wangzhi had learned classics at dawn, was prudent in handling matters, and had room for discussion and reasoning, so he was qualified to serve as prime minister. He wanted to carefully examine his ability to handle government affairs, and appointed him as Zuo Fengyi.
Xiao Wangzhi was transferred from the Shaofu and demoted to a lower position. He was afraid that he would offend the emperor, so he wrote a letter claiming to be sick and asking for leave.
When the emperor found out about this, he sent his minister, Hou Jin'an of Chengdu, to convey the decree: "Everyone employed by the imperial court has been governed by the people to assess their merits."
You used to be the governor of Pingyuan for a short time, so I sent you to Sanfu for inspection because I didn't hear anything bad.
Xiao Wangzhi took up his post immediately.
This year the Xiqiang rebelled, and the Han Dynasty sent generals to attack them.
Jingzhao Yin Zhang Chang wrote to Zhang Chang: The country's army is on the border. The army sets out in the summer, north of Longxi County and west of Anding County. Officials and people are involved in supply operations. Agriculture will be a lot of waste. There was no surplus grain reserves in the past. Although the Qiang rebellion was defeated, the people will definitely be short of food in the next spring.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
穷辟之处，买亡所得，县官谷度不足以振之。
愿令诸有罪，非盗受财杀人及犯法不得赦者，皆得以差入谷此八郡赎罪。
务益致谷以豫备百姓之急。
事下有司，望之与少府李强议，以为： 民函明阳之气，有好义欲利之心，在教化之所助。
尧在上，不能去民欲利之心，而能令其欲利不胜其好义也；虽桀在上，不能去民好义之心，而能令其好义不胜其欲利也。
故尧、桀之分，在于义利而已，道民不可不慎也。
今欲令民量粟以赎罪，如此则富者得生，贫者独死，是贫富异刑而法不一也。
人情，贫穷，父兄囚执，闻出财得以生活，为人子弟者将不顾死亡之患，败乱之行，以赴财利，求救亲戚。
一人得生，十人以丧，如此，伯夷之行坏，公绰之名灭。
translation: 
In poor and remote places, you can't get it with money, and the county's official treasury is not enough to provide relief to them.
I hope that the imperial court will order those criminals, except those who robbed money, killed people, or committed serious crimes that cannot be pardoned, to send food to these eight counties in a differentiated manner to atone for their sins.
Be sure to accumulate food to prepare for the people's emergencies.
This matter was left to the relevant departments to handle. Xiao Wangzhi and Shaofu Li Qiang held objections, believing that the people had both evil and righteous temperaments, a desire to uphold justice and a desire to pursue profits, which depended on the guidance of education.
Yao could not completely remove the people's desire to pursue profit, but he could make their desire for profit outweigh their desire to keep righteousness; even if Jie ruled, he could not remove the people's desire to uphold justice, but he could make their desire to keep righteousness not outweigh their desire for profit.
Therefore, the difference between Yao and Jie was only in two aspects: justice and interests. They must not be careless in guiding the people.
Now we want people to donate food to atone for their sins, so that rich people can survive, while poor people will only die. This is because the poor and rich receive different punishments, and the laws are inconsistent.
According to human nature, poor people, whose father and brother are imprisoned, hear that giving money can save their lives, their sons and brothers will ignore the threat of death and act in disorder to seize money in order to save their relatives.
One person survived, but ten died. In this way, Boyi's virtue was destroyed, and Gongchuo's good reputation was extinguished.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
政教一倾，虽有周、召之佐，恐不能复。
古者臧于民，不足则取，有余则予。
《诗》曰 爰及矜人，哀此鳏寡 ，上惠下也。
又曰 雨我公田，遂及我私 ，下急上也。
今有西边之役，民失作业，虽户赋口敛以赡其困乏，古之通义，百姓莫以为非。
以死救生，恐未可也。
陛下布德施教，教化既成，尧、舜亡以加也。
今议开利路以伤既成之化，臣窃痛之。
于是天子复下其议两府，丞相、御史以难问张敞。
敞曰： 少府左冯翊所言，常人之所守耳。
昔先帝征四夷，兵行三十余年，百姓犹不加赋，而军用给。
translation: 
Once the political education has collapsed, even if the Duke of Zhou and Duke of Zhao come to assist, it may not be restored.
In ancient times, grain was stored among the people. If the national treasury was insufficient, it would be taken from the people, and if there was excess, it would be given to them.
"The Book of Songs" says that the emperor's favor should be given to those poor people and pity those widowers and widows. This is the emperor's benefit to the people.
He also said that when it rains, we should moisten the public fields first, and then our own fields. The people respect the interests of the emperor.
Now that there is a campaign to conquer the western border, the people have abandoned their agricultural work. Even if each household collects taxes and each person donates money to relieve their poverty, this is a principle that has been in effect since ancient times, and the people will not think it is wrong.
I'm afraid it's not okay to let the children of those criminals risk their lives to rescue their relatives.
Your Majesty has popularized moral education, and the education has been successful. Yao and Shun could not surpass you.
Now I am proposing to open up a way to make money, but it will damage the successful education. I feel sad about it.
At that time, the emperor once again handed over their suggestions to the two governments for weighing. The prime minister and the imperial censor questioned Zhang Chang on these questions.
Zhang Chang said: What the Shaofu and Zuo Fengyi said are just mediocre opinions.
In the past, the late emperor crusaded against the barbarians from all directions. The war lasted for more than thirty years without increasing taxes on the people. At the same time, the army had sufficient supplies.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今羌虏一隅小夷，跳梁于山谷间，汉但令罪人出财减罪以诛之，其名贤于烦扰良民横兴赋敛也。
又诸盗及杀人犯不道者，百姓所疾苦也，皆不得赎；首匿、见知纵、所不当得为之属，议者或颇言其法可蠲除，今因此令赎，其便明甚，何化之所乱？
《甫刑》之罚，小过赦，薄罪赎，有金选之品，所从来久矣，何贼之所生？
敞备皂衣二十余年，尝闻罪人赎矣，未闻盗贼起也。
窃怜凉州被寇，方秋饶时，民尚有饥乏，病死于道路，况至来春将大困乎！
不早虑所以振救之策，而引常经以难，恐后为重责。
常人可与守经，未可与权也。
敞幸得备列卿，以辅两府为职，不敢不尽愚。
translation: 
Nowadays, the Western Qiang pirates are a small tribe in a corner, clamoring for tyranny in the valley. The Han Dynasty can only order the criminals to pay and reduce their crimes to kill them. This will have a much better reputation than harassing good people and imposing excessive taxes.
In addition, those robbers and murderers who are unjust and hated by the people cannot atone for their sins; the leaders who harbor criminals, those who knowingly release criminals, those who benefit themselves at the expense of others, etc. Some of the commentators think that their punishments can be exempted. Now because this order can atone for sins, its benefits are obvious. What kind of education has been disturbed?
The punishments in "Fu Xing" include forgiveness of minor offenses, atonement for minor crimes, and the level of atonement with money has been around for a long time. How could thieves appear for this purpose?
I have been an official in the imperial court for more than 20 years. I have heard about the redemption of sinners, but I have never heard of thieves appearing as a result.
I privately expressed my pity that the bandits had disturbed Jiazhou. It was the time of autumn harvest, and the people were still hungry and sleepy, and some were sick and died on the roads. What’s more, there will be even greater difficulties in the coming spring!
If you don't think about ways to help the people early, but use general principles to criticize, you may have to bear greater responsibilities later.
The mediocre can abide by the rules with him, but cannot discuss contingency matters with him.
I am fortunate enough to be ranked among the ministers, and it is my duty to assist the two governments. I dare not fail to do my best.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
望之、强复对曰： 先帝圣德，贤良在位，作宪垂法，为无穷之规，永惟边竟之不赡，故《金布令甲》曰 边郡数被兵，离饥寒，夭绝天年，父子相失，令天下共给其费 ，固为军旅卒暴之事也。
闻天汉四年，常使死罪人入五十万钱减死罪一等，豪强吏民请夺假貣，至为盗贼以赎罪。
其后奸邪横暴，群盗并起，至攻城邑，杀郡守，充满山谷，吏不能禁，明诏遣绣衣使者以兴兵击之，诛者过半，然后衰止。
愚以为此使死罪赎之败也，故曰不便。
时，丞相魏相、御史大夫丙吉亦以为羌虏且破，转输略足相给，遂不施敞议。
望之为左冯翊三年，京师称之，迁大鸿胪。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi and Li Qiang retorted: The late emperor was a sage, benevolent and virtuous man who served in the imperial court. He formulated charters and promulgated decrees as a permanent system and long-term consideration of the living difficulties of the people on the border. Therefore, the first article of "Jinbulingjia" said The border counties suffered from wars several times and suffered from hunger and cold. The people could not live to the end of their lives and would die young. The father and son were separated and ordered the people of the world to jointly provide for their expenses. It turned out to be preparations for the sudden outbreak of war.
It is said that in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty, prisoners on death row were asked to pay 500,000 yuan to avoid the death penalty and have their sentences commuted to one level. Powerful officials, officials and the people begged, robbed, borrowed, and even acted as thieves to obtain money to atone for their crimes.
From then on, treacherous and evil people were rampant, and many thieves appeared at the same time, attacking cities and killing county guards. These people spread all over the mountains and plains, and officials could not stop them. The state publicly ordered to send embroidered messengers to lead the army to attack them, killing more than half of them, and then they declined and disappeared.
We believe that this is caused by letting the death row inmates redeem themselves, so it is inappropriate to do so.
At this time, Prime Minister Wei Xiang and Yushi doctor Bingji also believed that the Xiqiang rebels would be defeated and the transshipment supply could basically meet the needs, so they did not implement Zhang Chang's suggestions.
Xiao Wangzhi served as Zuo Fengyi for three years, and everyone in the capital praised him. Was promoted to Dahonglu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
先是，乌孙昆弥翁归靡因长罗侯常惠上书，愿以汉外孙元贵靡为嗣，得复尚少主，结婚内附，畔去匈奴。
诏下公卿议，望之以为：乌孙绝域，信其美言，万里结婚，非长策也。
天子不听。
神爵二年，遣长罗侯惠使送公主配元贵靡。
未出塞，翁归靡死，其兄子狂王背约自立。
惠从塞下上书，愿留少主敦煌郡。
惠至乌孙，责以负约，因立元贵靡，还迎少主。
诏下公卿议，望之复以为： 不可。
乌孙持两端，亡坚约，其效可见。
前少主在乌孙四十余年，恩爱不亲密，边境未以安，此已事之验也。
今少主以元贵靡不得立而还，信无负于四夷，此中国之大福也。
少主不止，繇役将兴，其原起此。
天子从其议，征少主还。
后乌孙虽分国两立，以元贵靡为大昆弥，汉遂不复与结婚。
三年，代丙吉为御史大夫。
translation: 
Prior to this, King Weng Guimi of Wusun submitted a document through Changluo Hou Changhui, willing to take his grandson Yuan Guimi of the Han Dynasty as his heir, hoping to marry the young princess again, become an in-law, join the Han Dynasty, and betray the Huns.
The emperor issued an edict to the ministers to discuss the matter. Xiao Wangzhi believed that Wusun was a remote area, and it was not a long-term solution to believe their good words and enter into a marriage thousands of miles away.
The emperor didn't listen.
In the second year of Shenjue's reign, Changluo Houhui was sent as an envoy to escort the princess to be betrothed to Yuan Guimi.
Before leaving the border, Weng Guimi died, and his nephew Kuang Wang broke the agreement and proclaimed himself king.
Chang Hui wrote to the emperor from under the fortress, hoping to let the princess stay in Dunhuang County temporarily.
Chang Hui went to Wusun and blamed them for breaking the promise, so he made Yuan Guimi king and came back to welcome the princess.
The emperor issued an edict to the ministers for discussion, but Xiao Wangzhi thought it was impossible.
Wusun, the head of the rat, can't stick to the promise, and the consequences have been seen.
The former princess had been in Wusun for more than forty years, and the relationship between husband and wife was not deep, so the border was not stabilized. This was already a test of the matter.
Now that the young princess has come back because Yuan Guimi cannot inherit the throne, she has indeed failed the Yi people in all directions. This is a great thing for the Han Dynasty.
If the young princess does not stay, corvee service will arise, and the root of the matter lies in Zaojie.
The emperor followed his advice and summoned the princess back to the court.
Later, although Wusun was divided into two parallel countries and made Yuan Guimi the great king, the Han Dynasty no longer entered into marriage with him.
In the third year of Shenjue's reign, Xiao Wangzhi replaced Bingji as the imperial censor.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
五凤中匈奴大乱，议者多曰匈奴为害日久，可因其坏乱举兵灭之。
诏遣中朝大司马车骑将军韩增、诸吏富平侯张延寿、光禄勋杨惲、太仆戴长乐问望之计策，望之对曰： 《春秋》恶士匄帅师侵齐，闻齐侯卒，引师而还，君子大其不伐丧，以为恩足以服孝子，谊足以动诸侯。
前单于慕化乡善称弟，遣使请求和亲，海内欣然，夷狄莫不闻。
未终奉约，不幸为贼臣所杀，今而伐之，是乘乱而幸灾也，彼必奔走远遁。
不以义动兵，恐劳而无功。
宜遣使者吊问，辅其微弱，救其灾患，四夷闻之，咸贵中国之仁义。
如遂蒙恩得复其位，必称臣服从，此德之盛也。
上从其议，后竟遣兵护辅呼韩邪单于定其国。
translation: 
During the Wufeng period, the Huns were in chaos. Most commentators believed that the Huns had been causing harm for a long time, and they could take advantage of the civil strife to send troops to eliminate them.
The emperor went down to Shao and sent Han Zeng, Fupinghou Zhang Yanshou, Guangluxun Yang Tan, and Tai servant Dai Changle to ask Xiao Wangzhi what his plan was. Xiao Wangzhi responded: According to the "Spring and Autumn" records, Jin State Shiju led an army to invade Qi. When he heard that the Marquis of Qi had died, he led his army back. The gentleman praised him for not conquering the country where there was a funeral. He believed that his kindness was enough to impress the new monarch of Qi and his morality was enough to shock the princes.
In the past, the Chanyu admired our dynasty's teachings, was dedicated to doing good, and regarded himself as his younger brother. He sent envoys to ask for peace. People in the four seas were very happy, and all the Yi and Di tribes heard about it.
The treaty was not carried out to the end, and Shanyu was unfortunately killed by the rebels. To attack him now is to take advantage of the civil strife of others and take pleasure in others' misfortune. They will definitely run away.
If we do not fight with benevolence and righteousness, we may be in vain.
Envoys should be sent to express condolences, help them when they are weak, and rescue them when they are in trouble. The barbarians from all over the world will admire the benevolence and righteousness of the Han Dynasty.
If he can return to the throne due to this favor, he will definitely surrender to the Han Dynasty. This is a grand act of virtue.
The emperor followed his advice and finally sent an army to escort Huhanxie Shanyu to stabilize his country.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
是时，大司农、中丞耿寿昌奏设常平仓，上善之，望之非寿昌。
丞相丙吉年老，上重焉，望之又奏言： 百姓或乏困，盗贼未止，二千石多材下不任职。
三公非其人，则三光为之不明，今首岁日月少光，咎在臣等。
上以望之意轻丞相，乃下侍中建章卫尉金安上、光禄勋杨惲、御史中丞王忠，并诘问望之。
望之免冠置对，天子由是不说。
后丞相司直緐延寿奏： 侍中谒者良使承制诏望之，望之再拜已。
良与望之言，望之不起，因故下手，而谓御史曰 良礼不备 。故事丞相病，明日御史大夫辄问病；朝奏事会庭中，差居丞相后，丞相谢，大夫少进，揖。
今丞相数病，望之不问病；会庭中，与丞相钧礼。
时议事不合意，望之曰： 侯年宁能父我邪！
知御史有令不得擅使，望之多使守史自给车马，之杜陵护视家事。
少史冠法冠，为妻先引，又使卖买，私所附益凡十万三千。
案望之大臣，通经术，居九卿之右，本朝所仰，至不奉法自修，踞慢不逊攘，受所监臧二百五十以上，请逮捕系治。
上于是策望之曰： 有司奏君责使者礼，遇丞相亡礼，廉声不闻，敖慢不逊，亡以扶政，帅先百僚。
君不深思，陷于兹秽，朕不忍致君于理，使光禄勋惲策诏，左迁君为太子太傅，授印。
其上故印使者，便道之官。
君其秉道明孝，正直是与，帅意亡愆，靡有后言。
望之既左迁，而黄霸代为御史大夫。
数月间，丙吉薨，霸为丞相。
霸薨，于定国复代焉。望之遂见废，不得相。
translation: 
At that time, Geng Shouchang, the chief minister of Nongzhong, proposed the establishment of Changpingcang. The emperor thought it was very good, but Xiao Wangzhi opposed it.
Prime Minister Bingji was old and respected by the emperor. Xiao Wangzhi reported again: Some people live in poverty, thieves appear constantly, and many officials with a rank of two thousand stone are incompetent and incompetent.
If the three ministers are not chosen properly, the sun, moon and stars will lose their brilliance. The sun and moon will have no light in the first month of this year, and the responsibility lies with our ministers.
The emperor thought that Xiao Wangzhi meant to look down on the prime minister, so he ordered the imperial guards Jianzhang Weiwei Jin Anshang, Guangluxun Yang Pan, and the imperial censor Zhongcheng Wang Zhong to question Xiao Wangzhi.
Xiao Wangzhi took off his official hat to debate, which made the emperor unhappy.
Later, Prime Minister Sizhi Gun Yanshou reported: "Liang, the servant who paid homage to me, sent me to Xiao Wangzhi in Shao, but he only bowed twice."
Liang was talking to Xiao Wangzhi, but Xiao Wangzhi did not stand up and deliberately lowered his hands. Instead, he told the censor that Liang was not polite. According to the old custom, if the prime minister is ill, the censor should greet him about his illness the next day. When there is a gathering in the main hall, the censor should be behind the prime minister. When the prime minister says goodbye, the doctor will move forward slightly and bow.
Now that the prime minister has been ill several times, Xiao Wangzhi does not go to visit him. When gathering in the main hall, he uses the same etiquette as the prime minister.
Sometimes there are disagreements when discussing matters. Xiao Wangzhi said: "Master, at your age, can you be my father?"
Knowing that the censor was not allowed to use his power without authorization, Xiao Wangzhi repeatedly sent the left-behind officials to prepare their own carriages and horses and return to Duling to take care of the family affairs.
He asked the young master to wear a miter to guide his wife, and sent them to do business. These people secretly gave him a total of one hundred and three thousand yuan.
Xiao Wangzhi is a minister, well versed in Confucian classics, his position is higher than that of the Nine Ministers, and he is admired by everyone. However, he does not abide by the law and pays no attention to self-cultivation. He is arrogant and has embezzled more than 250 properties under his supervision. Please allow him to be arrested and imprisoned.
The emperor immediately made a decision and told Xiao Wangzhi: Relevant officials have complained to you for demanding that the envoys I sent were not polite. They were rude when they met the prime minister. They failed to hear your reputation for integrity. They were arrogant and incompetent. They were unable to support the government and could not set an example for all officials.
If you don't think deeply and fall into such a filthy situation, I can't bear to let you be punished by the law, so I sent Guang Luxun and Yang Pan to convey the Shao Order, demoting you to the title of Crown Prince and Tutor, and giving you the seal and ribbon.
Give the original seal and ribbon to the envoy, and then go to take office.
You should abide by morality, show filial piety, correct your thoughts and conduct, and do not make any mistakes or say anything else.
After Xiao Wangzhi was demoted, Huang Ba took over as the imperial censor.
A few months later, Bingji died and Huang Ba took over as prime minister.
When Huang Ba died and Yu Dingguo succeeded him, Xiao Wangzhi was deposed and could not become prime minister.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
为太傅，以《论语》、《礼服》授皇太子。
初，匈奴呼韩邪单于来朝，诏公卿议其仪，丞相霸、御史大夫定国议曰： 圣王之制，施德行礼，先京师而后诸夏，先诸夏而后夷狄。
《诗》云： 率礼不越，遂视既发；相士烈烈，海外有截。 陛下圣德充塞天地，光被四表，匈奴单于乡风慕化，奉珍朝贺，自古未之有也。
其礼仪宜如诸侯王，位次在下。
望之以为： 单于非正朔所加，故称敌国，宜待以不臣之礼，位在诸侯王上。
外夷稽首称藩，中国让而不臣，此则羁縻之谊，谦亨之福也。
《书》曰 戎狄荒服 ，言其来服，荒忽亡常。
如使匈奴后嗣卒有鸟窜鼠伏，阙如朝享，不为畔臣。
信让行乎蛮貉，福祚流于亡穷，万世之长策也。
translation: 
When he was a tutor, he taught the Analects and Etiquette to the crown prince. Mourning Clothes".
At the beginning, when the Huns called Hanxie Chanyu to come to court, the emperor issued an edict to ask the ministers to discuss the etiquette of the summons. Prime Minister Huang Ba and Yushi Dafuzi Dingguo thought: The system of the Shengming Emperor implements moral government and promotes etiquette, first in the capital and then in the local area, first in the country and then outside the country.
"The Book of Songs" says: Follow the etiquette and do not overstep, and promote the inspection everywhere; the majesty and virtue of Xiangtu are so strong that they will be supported from all over the world. Your Majesty's saintliness and benevolence fill the heaven and earth, and the light shines far away in all directions. The Xiongnu Chanyu admires our country's customs and education, and comes to pay tribute with treasures in his hands. This has never happened since ancient times.
The etiquette for receiving him should be the same as that of princes and kings, and his position should be below that of princes and kings.
Xiao Wangzhi believes that the Chanyu does not implement our calendar system, so it is called an enemy country, and should be treated with the etiquette of not being a minister, and its position is higher than that of the princes and kings.
Foreign barbarians kowtow and claim to belong to the country, but the Han Dynasty is humble and does not call them ministers. This is the principle of win-win, and understands the blessings brought by humility.
"Shangshu" says that Rong Dihuang suddenly returned, which means that they came to join, but the location was remote and capricious.
If the descendants of the Huns end up wandering around and looting, and do not come to worship and pay tribute, they cannot be regarded as traitors.
Integrity and humility are promoted to the land of barbarians, and good fortune continues to spread to infinity. This is a long-term plan for thousands of generations.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
天子采之，下诏曰： 盖闻五帝、三王教化所不施，不及以政。
今匈奴单于称北藩，朝正朔，朕之不逮，德不能弘覆。
其以客礼待之，令单于位在诸侯王上，赞谒称臣而不名。
及宣帝寝疾，选大臣可属者，引外属侍中乐陵侯史高、太子太傅望之、少傅周堪至禁中，拜高为大司马车骑将军，望之为前将军光禄勋，堪为光禄大夫，皆受遗诏辅政，领尚书事。
宣帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝元帝。
望之、堪本以师傅见尊重，上即位，数宴见，言治乱，陈王事。
望之选白宗室明经达学散骑、谏大夫刘更生给事中，与侍中金敞并拾遗左右。
四人同心谋议，劝道上以古制，多所欲匡正，上甚乡纳之。
初，宣帝不甚从儒术，任用法律，而中书宦官用事。
中书令弘恭、石显久典枢机，明习文法，亦与车骑将军高为表里，论议常独持故事，不从望之等。
恭、显又时倾仄见诎。
望之以为中书政本，宜以贤明之选，自武帝游宴后庭，故用宦者，非国旧制，又违古不近刑人之义，白欲更置士人，由是大与高、恭、显忤。
上初即位，谦让重改作，议久不定，出刘更生为宗正。
望之、堪数荐名儒茂才以备谏官。
会稽郑朋阴欲附望之，上疏言车骑将军高遣客为奸利郡国，及言许、史子弟罪过。
章视周堪，堪白令朋待诏金马门。
translation: 
The emperor adopted his opinion and issued an edict: It is said that places where the five emperors and three kings cannot implement education do not need to rule by decree.
Now the Xiongnu Chan is a vassal state that is close to him, and he comes to worship regularly. My ability is not as good as my own, and my virtue cannot be imposed on them from afar.
He entertained him with the etiquette of a guest, placed Shan Yu above the princes and kings, and addressed him as a minister without addressing him by name.
When Emperor Xuan was ill in bed, he selected ministers who could take care of his affairs. He summoned his relatives Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, Prince Tai Fu Xiao Wangzhi, and Shao Fu Zhou Kan to the palace. Shi Gao was appointed as the Chief Chariot Cavalry General, Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as the former General Guang Luxun, and Zhou Kan was appointed as the Guanglu Doctor.
When Emperor Xuan died, the prince inherited the title of Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Xiao Wangzhi and Zhou Kan were originally respected by the emperor as masters. After the emperor ascended the throne, he summoned them several times in his spare time to discuss how to deal with chaos and explain the things of being an emperor.
Xiao Wangzhi recommended Liu Gengsheng, a Sanqi admonishment official in the royal family who was well versed in Confucian classics, to serve as Shizhong, and he and Jin Chang, the attendant, served as ministers to the emperor.
The four people made plans together and used ancient systems to advise and guide the emperor. There were many things they hoped to support and correct. The emperor trusted them very much and adopted their opinions.
At the beginning, Emperor Xuan did not believe in Confucianism but Legalism, and the eunuchs in Zhongshu were in power.
Zhongshu Ling Honggong and Shi Xian had been managing the central secrets for a long time, and were familiar with the laws and regulations. They also acted as partners with the cavalry general Shi Gao. When discussing government affairs, they often adhered to the old rules alone and did not listen to the opinions of Xiao Wangzhi and others.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian were often refuted because of their paranoid and narrow opinions.
Xiao Wangzhi believed that Zhongshu was a key political position and should be replaced by wise candidates. Emperor Wu held banquets in the harem and appointed eunuchs, but this was not the traditional system of the country and violated the ancient principle of not being close to people who had been punished. He stated his idea of ​​replacing the post with scholars. From then on, he was in great conflict with Shi Gao, Hong Gong and Shi Xian.
Emperor Yuan had just succeeded to the throne, and it was difficult to change the old rules in dealing with humility. After long discussions and unable to make a decision, Liu Gengsheng was transferred to Zongzheng.
Xiao Wangzhi and Zhou Kan recommended famous Confucian scholars and outstanding talents to serve as admonishers several times.
Zheng Peng of Kuaiji secretly wanted to seduce Xiao Wangzhi, so he went to Shu and reported that the cavalry general Shi Gao sent guests to the county to do bad things for personal gain. He also talked about the crimes of Xu and Shi's children.
The emperor gave the memorial to Zhou Kan to read, and Zhou Kan told Zheng Peng to wait for orders at Jinmamen.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
朋奏记望之曰： 将军体周、召之德，秉公绰之质，有卞庄之威。
至乎耳顺之年，履折冲之位，号至将军，诚士之高致也。
窟穴黎庶莫不欢喜，咸曰将军其人也。
今将军规橅云若管、晏而休，遂行日仄至周、召乃留乎？
若管、晏而休，则下走将归延陵之皋，修农圃之畴，畜鸡种黍，俟见二子，没齿而已矣。
如将军昭然度行，积思塞邪枉之险蹊，宣中庸之常政，兴周、召之遗业，亲日仄之兼听，则下走其庶几愿竭区区，底厉锋锷，奉万分之一。
望之见纳朋，接待以意。
朋数称述望之，短车骑将军，言许、史过失。
后朋行倾邪，望之绝不与通。
朋与大司农史李官俱待诏，堪独白宫为黄门郎。
translation: 
Zheng Peng wrote to Xiao Wangshang, saying: The general personally practices the virtues of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong, possesses the talents of Meng Gongchuo, and possesses the majesty of Bian Zhuang.
At the age of sixty, holding the position of an important minister and reaching the rank of general is really the highest achievement of a soldier.
All the people in the field were happy, and they all said that the general was the country's talent.
Now, are Guan Zhong and Yan Zi the targets that the general is pursuing? Or the Duke of Zhou and Duke of Zhao who were diligent in political affairs and neglected food and sleep?
If I just give up like Guan Zhong and Yanzi, then I have to go back to the Yanling Mountains like Ji Zha, cultivate farmland, raise chickens and breed millet, and wait for my two sons to achieve something. I will grow old without teeth.
If the general is upright and upright, goes beyond ordinary thoughts, blocks the dangerous paths of evil spirits, promotes normal politics of moderation, revitalizes the work of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong, personally works day and night, and listens to various opinions, then I am willing to do my best to hone my edge and contribute my best.
Xiao Wangzhi accepted Zheng Peng and received him wholeheartedly.
Zheng Peng repeatedly praised Xiao Wangzhi, belittled the generals of chariots and cavalry, and talked about the faults of Xu and Shi.
Later, Zheng Peng committed treachery and Xiao Wangzhi severed ties with him and stopped communicating with him.
Zheng Peng and Li Gong, the chief agricultural officer, were waiting for the appointment together, and Zhou Kan alone recommended Li Gong to be Huang Menlang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
朋，楚士，怨恨，更求入许、史，推所言许、史事曰： 皆周堪、刘更生教我，我关东人，何以知此？
于是侍中许章白见朋。
朋出扬言曰： 我见，言前将军小过五，大罪一。
中书令在旁，知我言状。
望之闻之，以问弘恭、石显。
显、恭恐望之自讼，下于它吏，即挟朋及待诏华龙。
龙者，宣帝时与张子蟜等待诏，以行污秽不进，欲入堪等，堪等不纳，故与朋相结。
恭、显令二人告望之等谋欲罢车骑将军疏退许、史状，候望之出休日，令朋、龙上之。
事下弘恭问状，望之对曰： 外戚在位多奢淫，欲以匡正国家，非为邪也。
恭、显奏： 望之、堪、更生朋党相称举，数谮诉大臣，毁离亲戚，欲以专擅权势，为臣不忠，诬上不道，请谒者召致廷尉。
translation: 
Zheng Peng was from Chu, and he had a grudge in his heart, so he asked to join Xu and Shi. He shied away from the responsibility of speaking ill of the Xu and Shi families and said: "This was all taught to me by Zhou Kan and Liu Gengsheng. I am from Guandong, how can I know this?"
So the attendant Xu Zhang reported to the emperor requesting to summon Zheng Peng.
After Zheng Peng left the palace, he threatened: I was summoned and reported to the former general five minor offenses and one major crime.
Zhongshu Ling was by his side and knew what I was talking about.
When Xiao Wangzhi heard about this, he used it to question Hong Gong and Shi Xian.
Shi Xian and Hong Gong were afraid that Xiao Wangzhi would file a complaint on his own and the emperor would hand over the case to other officials, so they would threaten Zheng Peng and Hua Long.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Hualong was waiting for an imperial edict with Zhang Zijiao and others. He was not appointed because of his bad conduct and wanted to attach himself to Zhou Kan and others. Zhou Kan and others did not accept him, so he made friends with Zheng Peng.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian ordered them to report Xiao Wangzhi and others' intention to depose General Chaoqiu and alienate the Xu and Shi families. They waited for Xiao Wangzhi to go on vacation and instruct Zheng Peng and Hua Long to report to them.
This matter was handed over to Hong Gong to inquire about the situation, and Xiao Wangzhi responded: Most of the relatives who hold important positions are extravagant and extravagant. I am here to help the country, not to do bad things.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian reported that Xiao Wangzhi, Zhou Kan, and Liu Gengsheng colluded with their cronies to recommend each other, repeatedly slandered ministers, attacked and alienated the emperor's relatives, and wanted to use their power to gain power.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
时上初即位，不省 谒者召致廷尉 为下狱也。可其奏。
后上召堪、更生，曰系狱。
上大惊曰： 非但廷尉问邪？
以责恭、显，皆叩头谢。
上曰： 令出视事。
恭、显因使高言： 上新即位，未以德化闻于天下，而先验师傅，既下九卿大夫狱，宜因决免。
于是制诏丞相御史： 前将军望之傅朕八年，亡它罪过，今事久远，识忘难明。
其赦望之罪，收前将军光禄勋印绶，及堪、更生皆免为庶人。
而朋为黄门郎。
后数月，制诏御史： 国之将兴，尊师而重傅。故前将军望之傅朕八年，道以经术，厥功茂焉。
translation: 
At that time, the emperor had just succeeded to the throne and did not understand that summoning the eunuchs to deliver them to the court captain was equivalent to sending them to prison and approved their memorial.
Later, the emperor summoned Zhou Kan and Liu Gengsheng and replied that they had been put in prison.
The emperor was shocked and said: "Isn't it just for the Tingwei to ask about the situation?"
He blamed Hong Gong and Shi Xian for this incident, and they both kowtowed and apologized.
The emperor said: Let them come out to do business.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian sent Shi Gao to say: The emperor has just succeeded to the throne and has not taught the world about his moral education. He should first interrogate the master. Since Dr. Jiuqing was imprisoned, he should be interrogated and then commuted.
At that time, an edict was issued to the prime minister and the imperial censor: Former general Xiao Wangzhi taught me for eight years and had no other sins. It has been a long time now and my memory is unclear and it is difficult to explain.
Xiao Wangzhi should be pardoned for his crimes, the seal and ribbon of former general Guang Luxun should be taken back, and Zhou Kan and Liu Gengsheng should be dismissed from their posts and become common people.
And Zheng Peng became Huang Menlang.
A few months later, the emperor issued an edict to the imperial censor: If the country is going to prosper, we should respect the master. The former general Xiao Wangzhi taught me for eight years and guided me with classics. He has made great contributions.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其赐望之爵关内侯，食邑六百户，给事中，朝朔望，坐次将军 天子方倚欲以为丞相，会望之子散骑中郎伋上书讼望之前事，事下有司，复奏： 望之前所坐明白，无谮诉者，而教子上书，称引亡辜之《诗》，失大臣体，不敬，请逮捕。
弘恭、石显等知望之素高节，不诎辱，建白： 望之前为将军辅政，欲排退许、史，专权擅朝。
幸得不坐，复赐爵邑，与闻政事，不悔过服罪，深怀怨望，教子上书，归非于上，自以托师傅，怀终不坐。
非颇诎望之于牢狱，塞其怏怏心，则圣朝亡以施恩厚。
上曰： 萧太傅素刚，安肯就吏？
显等曰： 人命至重，望之所坐，语言薄罪，必亡所忧。
上乃可其奏。
显等封以付谒者，敕令召望之手付，因令太常急发执金吾车骑驰围其第。
使者至，召望之。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi should be given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 600 households, and be given a position in the affairs. He should pay homage on the first and fifteenth day of every month, and his seat should be second to that of the general. The emperor was about to rely on him to become the prime minister when he encountered Xiao Wangzhi's son, Sanqi Zhonglang Xiao Ji, writing a letter complaining about Xiao Wangzhi's previous grievances. The matter was handed over to the relevant departments and reported.
Hong Gong, Shi Xian and others knew that Xiao Wangzhi had a long history of noble integrity and refused to give in and be insulted. They suggested: Xiao Wangzhi, a former general who assisted in state affairs, wanted to exclude the Xu and Shi families and control the state affairs exclusively.
Fortunately, he was not punished, and was given a title, a house, and participated in the discussion of national politics. He did not repent of his mistakes and confessed his crimes. He also harbored resentment and instigated his son to write a letter attributing his fault to the emperor. He thought that because of his status as a master, he would not be punished.
If Xiao Wangzhi is not allowed to suffer some humiliation in prison and block his dissatisfaction, then the Holy Dynasty will not be able to bestow favors on him.
The emperor said: Mr. Xiao has always been upright, how can he accept the interrogation of officials?
Shi Xian and others said: Human life is of vital importance. The crime committed by Xiao Wangzhi is a small crime of saying the wrong thing. It will definitely not worry you.
The emperor approved his report.
Shi Xian and others sealed the emperor's approval and handed it over to the visitor, and ordered it to be delivered to Xiao Wangzhi personally. Then they ordered Taichang to quickly lead the Jinwu cavalry to surround his house.
The messenger arrived and sent word to Xiao Wangzhi.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
望之欲自杀，其夫人止之，以为非天子意。
望之以问门下生朱云。
云者好节士，劝望之自裁。
于是望之仰天叹曰： 吾尝备位将相，年逾六十矣，老入牢狱，苟求生活，不亦鄙乎！ 字谓云曰： 游，趣和药来，无久留我死！
竟饮鸩自杀。
天子闻之惊，拊手曰： 曩固疑其不就牢狱，果然杀吾贤傅！
是时，太官方上昼食，上乃却食，为之涕泣，哀恸左右。
于是召显等责问以议不详。
皆免冠谢，良久然后已。
望之有罪死，有司请绝其爵邑。
有诏加恩，长子伋嗣为关内侯。
天子追念望之，不忘每岁时遣使者祠祭望之冢，终元帝世。
望之八子，至大官者育、咸、由。
育字次君，少以父任为太子庶子。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi wanted to commit suicide, but his wife stopped him, thinking that this was not the emperor's will.
Xiao Wangzhi asked his disciple Zhu Yun about this.
Zhu Yun was a man who loved fame and honor, so he advised Xiao Wangzhi to commit suicide.
At that time, Xiao Wangzhi looked up to the sky and sighed and said: I once served as a general, and I am over sixty years old. Isn't it too despicable to go to prison at an old age and live an ignoble life? The factory called Zhu Yun and said: You, come and get the medicine. I would rather die than stay alive for a long time!
Finally he committed suicide by drinking poisonous wine.
The emperor was shocked when he heard about this. He clapped his hands and sighed and said: I suspected that he refused to go to jail before, but he really killed my good teacher!
At that time, the eunuch had just served lunch when the emperor pushed away the food and cried for Xiao Wangzhi. His sorrow moved the attendants around him.
Immediately summoned Shi Xian and others to question them for their poor planning.
They all took off their hats to apologize, and it took a long time before they gave up.
Xiao Wangzhi died guilty, and the relevant departments requested that his title and title be abolished.
However, the emperor issued an edict to increase his favor, and his eldest son Xiao Ji succeeded him as Marquis of Guannei.
The emperor could not forget Xiao Wangzhi's memory, and sent envoys to pay homage to Xiao Wangzhi's grave during every year and festival. This was the case throughout the Yuan Dynasty.
Xiao Wangzhi had eight sons, among whom Xiao Yu, Xiao Xian and Xiao You became high officials.
Xiao Yu was named Cijun. When he was young, he was appointed as the prince's concubine due to his father's kindness.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
元帝即位，为郎，病免，后为御史。
大将军王凤以育名父子，著材能，除为功曹，迁谒者，使匈奴副校尉。
后为茂陵令，会课，育第六。
而漆令郭舜殿，见责问，育为之请，扶风怒曰： 君课第六，裁自脱，何暇欲为左右言？
及罢出，传召茂陵令诣后曹，当以职事对。
育径出曹，书佐随牵育，育案佩刀曰： 萧育杜陵男子，何诣曹也！
遂趋出，欲去官。
明旦，诏召入，拜为司隶校尉。
育过扶风府门，官属掾史数百人拜谒车下。
后坐失大将军指免官。
复为中郎将使匈奴。
历冀州、青州两部刺史，长水校尉，泰山太守。入守大鸿胪。
以鄠名贼梁子政阻山为害，久不伏辜，育为右扶风数月，尽诛子政等。
坐与定陵侯淳于长厚善免官。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and served as a Langguan. He was dismissed due to illness and later became a censor.
General Wang Feng, because of Xiao Yu's father's reputation and his own outstanding talents, appointed him as a meritorious officer, promoted to Yezhi, and served as deputy captain on an envoy to the Huns.
Later, when he became the magistrate of Maoling County, during an inspection, Xiao Yu ranked sixth.
However, Guo Shun, the magistrate of Qixian County, ranked last and was scolded. Xiao Yu interceded with him. Fufeng got angry and said, "You came sixth in the exam and you got away. How can you intercede for your colleagues?"
After the examination, he went out and summoned Maoling to Hou Cao to ask him to report on the situation during his tenure.
Xiao Yu walked straight out of Hou Cao, and the clerk followed him and grabbed him. Xiao Yu held down his saber and said: Xiao Yu is Du Ling's man, why should he go to Hou Cao!
He hurriedly walked out, wanting to abandon his official position and leave.
The next morning, the emperor issued an edict to summon him and appointed him as Sili Xiaowei.
Xiao Yu passed by the gate of Fufeng Mansion, and officials and hundreds of people gathered in front of the car to pay their respects.
Later he was dismissed from office for violating the general's will.
He also served as Zhonglang General on an envoy to the Huns.
He successively served as the governor of Jizhou and Qingzhou counties, the captain of Changshui, and the prefect of Taishan. He went to Beijing to serve as Dahonglu.
Because Liang Zizheng, a famous thief in E County, took advantage of the mountains to harm one party and was unable to capture him for a long time, Xiao Yu Ren You Fu Feng Fu Yue later killed Liang Zizheng and his gang.
Later, he was dismissed from office because he was particularly close to Chunyu Chang, Marquis of Dingling.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
哀帝时，南郡江中多盗贼，拜育为南郡太守。
上以育耆旧名臣，乃以三公使车载育入殿中受策，曰： 南郡盗贼群辈为害，朕甚忧之。
以太守威信素著，故委南郡太守，之官，其于为民除害，安元元而已，亡拘于小文。
加赐黄金二十斤。
育至南郡，盗贼静。
病去官，起家复为光禄大夫执金吾，以寿终于官。
育为人严猛尚威，居官数免，稀迁。
少与陈咸、朱博为友，著闻当世。
往者有王阳、贡公，故长安语曰 萧、朱结绶，王、贡弹冠 ，言其相荐达也。
始育与陈咸俱以公卿子显名，咸最先进，年十八，为左曹，二十余，御史中丞。
时，朱博尚为杜陵亭长，为咸、育所攀援，入王氏。
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Ai, there were many thieves on the Yangtze River in Nanjun, so Xiao Yu was granted the title of Grand Administrator of Nanjun.
Because Xiao Yu was a famous official, the emperor used the car used by the three princes to carry Xiao Yu into the palace to accept the order. He said: "There are groups of thieves in Nanjun who are harming the people. I am very worried about this matter."
Because the prefect has always had a high prestige, he was appointed as the prefect of Nanjun. After taking office, he should only eliminate harm and maintain safety for the people. Don't get stuck in small details.
Reward twenty pounds of gold.
Xiao Yu went to Nanjun and the thieves were eliminated.
He was dismissed from office due to illness, and was appointed as Guanglu doctor to hold Jinwu, and he lived in his position for the rest of his life.
Xiao Yu was a dignified and brave man. He was dismissed several times as an official and was rarely promoted.
When he was a child, he was friends with Chen Xian and Zhu Bo, and he was very famous at that time.
In the past, Wang Yang and Gong Gong were good friends, so there is a saying in Chang'an: Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo tied the knot and became good friends, and Wang Yang and Gong Gong got to know each other after playing their crowns. It means that they recommended each other and became famous.
At the beginning, both Xiao Yu and Chen Xian were famous for being the sons of Gongqing. Chen Xian was the first to enter the palace. He was appointed Zuocao at the age of eighteen and Yushi Zhongcheng in his twenties.
At that time, Zhu Bo was still the head of Duling Pavilion. He was introduced by Chen Xian and Xiao Yu and entered the Wang family.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
后遂并历刺史、郡守相，及为九卿，而博先至将军上卿，历位多于咸、育，遂至丞相。
育与博后有隙，不能终，故世以交为难。
咸字仲君，为丞相史，举茂材，好畤令，迁淮阳、泗水内史，张掖、弘农、河东太守。
所居有迹，数增秩赐金。
后免官，复为越骑校尉、护军都尉、中郎将，使匈奴，至大司农，终官。
由字子骄，为丞相西曹卫将军掾，迁谒者，使匈奴副校尉。
后举贤良，为定陶令，迁太原都尉，安定太守。
治郡有声，多称荐者。
初，哀帝为定陶王时，由为定陶令，失王指，顷之，制书免由为庶人。
哀帝崩，为复土校尉、京辅左辅都尉，迁江夏太守。
平江贼成重等有功，增秩为陈留太守，元始中，作明堂辟雍，大朝诸侯，征由为大鸿胪，会病，不及宾赞，还归故官，病免。
复为中散大夫，终官。
家至吏二千石者六七人。
赞曰：萧望之历位将相，籍师傅之恩，可谓亲昵亡间。
translation: 
Later, he served as governor, county governor, and state minister at the same time, and later he served as Jiuqing. Zhu Bo first served as general and minister, and experienced more official positions than Chen Xian and Xiao Yu, all the way to prime minister.
Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo later had a quarrel and could not end well, so the world thought it was difficult to make friends.
Xiao Xian lived there and became prime minister. He was promoted to Maocai and appointed magistrate of Liaoqi County. He was promoted to Jinbao, Hui Neishi, Zhang Zheng, Wang Di, and Jiongsai prefect.
Wherever he went, he made political achievements and received many increases in salary and gold rewards.
Later, he was dismissed from the official position and served as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School, the captain of the guard army, and the general of Zhonglang. He was sent as an envoy to the Huns and reached the rank of Da Sinong. He died in his post.
Xiao You, whose courtesy name was Zijiao, was appointed as the Prime Minister's general of Xicao Wei. He was promoted to the rank of Yezhi and was appointed as the deputy captain of the envoy to the Xiongnu.
Later, he was recommended as a virtuous person and appointed as magistrate of Dingtao County. He was promoted to captain of Taiyuan and prefect of Anding.
He is prestigious in governing states and counties, and many people praise and recommend him.
When Emperor Ai became King of Dingtao, Xiao You was appointed as the Dingtao Order, which went against the wishes of King Dingtao. Soon, the court dismissed Xiao You as a commoner.
After the death of Emperor Ai, he was appointed Captain of Futu, Captain of Jingfu and Zuofu, and was promoted to prefect of Jiangxia.
Because of their meritorious service in wiping out the bandits on the Yangtze River, Cheng Zhong and others were given an increased salary and were appointed as the prefect of Chenliu. During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Mingtang and Piyong were built, princes and kings were convened for large-scale court meetings, and Xiao You was recruited to serve as Dahonglu. It happened that he was ill and could not host etiquette and receive guests. He returned to his original official position, but was dismissed due to illness.
Later, he served as a doctor in Zhongsan and died in office.
There are six or seven people in the Xiao family who have reached the level of two thousand stone officials.
Zan said: Xiao Wangzhi's official position is general and deputy prime minister. By virtue of being the emperor's master, it can be said that he and the emperor are close to each other.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
及至谋泄隙开，谗邪构之，卒为便嬖宦竖所图，哀哉！
不然，望之堂堂，折而不桡，身为儒宗，有辅佐之能，近古社稷臣也。
translation: 
When the plot was revealed, suspicion arose, evil-mouthed and evil people framed him, and he was eventually killed by the sycophant, eunuch, and villain. What a pity!
Otherwise, Xiao Wangzhi was upright and unyielding. As a leading Confucian scholar and capable of assisting the emperor, he was almost like a minister of the country in ancient times.


