Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 7, 7, 12, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
萧望之字长倩，东海兰陵人也，徙杜陵。
家世以田为业，至望之，好学，治《齐诗》，事同县后仓且十年。
以令诣太常受业，复事同学博士白奇，又从夏侯胜问《论语》、《礼服》。
京师诸儒称述焉。
是时，大将军霍光秉政，长史丙吉荐儒生王仲翁与望之等数人，皆召见。
先是，左将军上官桀与盖主谋杀光，光既诛桀等，后出入自备。
吏民当见者，露索去刀兵，两吏挟持。
望之独不肯听，自引出阁曰： 不愿见。
吏牵持匈匈。
光闻之，告吏勿持。
望之既至前，说光曰： 将军以功德辅幼主，将以流大化，致于洽平，是以天下之士延颈企踵，争愿自效，以辅高明。
今士见者皆先露索挟持，恐非周公相成王躬吐握之礼，致白屋之意。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi, whose courtesy name is Changqian, was born in Lanling County, Shuhai County, and later moved to Duling.
Farming has been a career for generations. When Xiao Wangzhi arrived, he was interested in learning and studied "Qi Shi". He studied under Houcang from the same county for nearly ten years.
According to the system, he studied under Taichang, and also studied under his former classmate Dr. Bai Qi. He also followed Xia Housheng to discuss "The Analects of Confucius" and "Etiquette". Mourning Clothes".
The Confucian scholars in the capital all praised him.
At that time, General Huo Guang was in power. Chief Shi Bingji recommended Confucian scholars Wang Zhongweng and Xiao Wangzhi, and several others were summoned.
Before this, the left general Shangguan Jie and Princess Gaiyi conspired to assassinate Huo Guang. Huo Guang killed Shangguan Jie and others, and then took precautions when going out.
Officials and common people who must be interviewed must be stripped and searched, their weapons removed, and held hostage by two officials.
Only Xiao Wangzhi refused to obey. He withdrew from the small door and said, "I don't want to see you."
The official pulled him away aggressively.
When Huo Guang heard about this situation, he told the officials not to hold him hostage.
Xiao Wangzhi came to Huo Guang and advised him: "The general assists the young emperor with his merits and virtues, and will implement a grand enlightenment policy to achieve a harmonious and peaceful rule. Therefore, scholars all over the world stretch their necks and stand on their heels, vying to personally serve and assist you, a wise man."
Now the scholars who want to visit you must first be stripped and searched and held hostage. This may not be in line with the courtesy of the Duke of Zhou, who ate three meals, vomited food three times, and washed his hair three times to incur poor scholars.

summary:
summary line 0: Xiao Wangzhi, courtesy name Changqian, was a scholar from Lanling who later moved to Duling. He studied the "Qi Shi" under Houcang for nearly ten years, and also studied under Dr. Bai Qi and Xia Housheng, mastering "The Analects of Confucius" and "Etiquette." His reputation grew among Confucian scholars in the capital.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是光独不除用望之，而仲翁等皆补大将军史。
三岁间，仲翁至光禄大夫、给事中，望之以射策甲科为郎，署小苑东门候。
仲翁出入从仓头庐儿，下车趋门，传呼甚宠，顾谓望之曰： 不肯录录，反抱关为？
望之曰： 各从其志。
后数年，坐弟犯法，不得宿卫，免归为郡吏。
御史大夫魏相除望之为属，察廉为大行治礼丞。
时，大将军光薨，子禹复为大司马，兄子山领尚书，亲属皆宿卫内侍。
地节三年夏，京师雨雹，望之因是上疏，愿赐清闲之宴，口陈灾异之意。
宣帝自在民间闻望之名，曰： 此东海萧生邪？
下少府宋畸问状，无有所讳。
望之对，以为： 《春秋》昭公三年大雨雹，是时季氏专权，卒逐昭公。
乡使鲁君察于天变，宜无此害。
translation: 
At that time, Huo Guang only did not appoint Xiao Wangzhi, and Wang Zhongweng and others were appointed as General Shi.
Within three years, Wang Zhongweng was promoted to Guanglu doctor, and Xiao Wangzhi became a Langguan because he passed the A-level exam, acting as Xiaoyuan East Gate Marquis.
Wang Zhongweng was followed by servants when he came in and out. He got off the car and entered the door. He was greeted in front of and behind him. He was very respectful. He turned around and said to Xiao Wangzhi: You refused to follow the rules and instead just became a gatekeeper.
Xiao Wangzhi said: Everyone pursues his own ambitions.
A few years later, because his younger brother had committed a crime and was in jail, he could no longer serve as a palace guard. He was dismissed and returned to his hometown as a county official.
When Wei Xiang, the imperial censor, appointed Xiao Wangzhi as a subordinate official, he was appointed as the Minister of Ceremonies of Daxing after examination.
At this time, the general Huo Guang passed away, and his son Huo Yu became the chief minister again. His nephew Huo Shan was appointed the minister, and all his relatives served as guards and attendants in the palace.
In the summer of the third year of Dijie, there was hail in the capital. Xiao Wangzhi complained to the emperor about this, hoping that the emperor would give him a chance to tell him the meaning of the natural disaster and vision.
Emperor Xuan heard about Xiao Wangzhi's reputation among the people and said: Is this Xiao Sheng from Shuhai?
Bring him to Shaofu Song Wei to inquire about the situation and ask him not to hide anything.
Xiao Wangzhi answered the inquiry. He believed that "Spring and Autumn" records that there was a hailstorm in the third year of Duke Zhao of Lu. At that time, the Ji family was in power and eventually exiled Duke Zhao of Lu.
If Lu Zhaogong could detect the signs of natural disasters in the past, this disaster would not have happened.

summary:
summary line 1: During the reign of General Huo Guang, Xiao Wangzhi was recommended for office but refused to submit to the humiliating security procedures of being stripped and searched before meeting Huo Guang. He advised Huo Guang to treat scholars with respect, but Huo Guang did not appoint him. Xiao Wangzith later became a Langguan after passing an exam, serving as Xiaoyuan East Gate Marquis. When his younger brother committed a crime, he was dismissed and returned to his hometown as a county official.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
今陛下以圣德居位，思政求贤，尧、舜之用心也。
然而善祥未臻，阴阳不和，是大臣任政，一姓擅势之所致也。
附枝大者贼本心，私家盛者公室危。
唯明主躬万机，选同姓，举贤材，以为腹心，与参政谋，令公卿大臣朝见奏事，明陈其职，以考功能。
如是，则庶事理，公道立，奸邪塞，私权废矣。
对奏，天子拜望之为谒者。
时，上初即位，思进贤良，多上书言便宜，辄下望之问状，高者请丞相御史，次者中二千石试事，满岁以状闻，下者报闻，或罢归田里，所白处奏皆可。
累迁谏大夫，丞相司直，岁中三迁，官至二千石。
translation: 
Now your Majesty is occupying the position of emperor by virtue of being wise and wise. He is thinking about political affairs and seeking talents. This is the intention of Yao and Shun in governing the world.
However, the auspicious omen has not yet appeared, and the yin and yang are not in harmony. This is caused by the ministers being in power and the exclusive power of one surname.
If the branches are too large, they will damage the trunk. If the ministers have too much power, they will endanger the court.
Only a sage monarch personally governs all affairs of the country, selects people with the same surname, appoints talented people, treats them as confidants, plans political affairs with them, orders ministers to report to the emperor, clearly states his responsibilities, and examines their merits and talents.
In this way, all kinds of things can be dealt with, all kinds of things can be dealt with, the way of justice can be established, the way of evil and evil can be blocked, and private rights can be abolished.
This exchange was reported to the emperor, and Emperor Xuan appointed Xiao Wangzhi as the visitor.
At that time, Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne and hoped to promote virtuous people. Many people wrote letters stating strategies that would benefit the country and the people. Emperor Xuan often gave these memorials to Xiao Wangzhi to inquire about the pros and cons. The wise ones were asked to be selected by the prime minister and censor, and the inferior ones were given to Jiuqing for trial. After a year, the situation was reported. The inferior ones were given approval or dismissed from office and sent back to their hometown. Everything Xiao Wangzhi reported was approved.
He was successively promoted to admonish the doctor and prime minister Sizhi. He was promoted three times within a year and became an official of two thousand stone level.

summary:
summary line 2: After Huo Guang's death, Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as Minister of Ceremonies of Daxing. He warned Emperor Xuan about the dangers of ministers holding too much power, citing historical precedents. Emperor Xuan appointed him as a visitor, and he quickly rose through the ranks to become an official of two thousand stone level. He was later appointed as the governor of Pingyuan but preferred to serve in the court. He was eventually recalled to manage the Shaofu and later became Zuo Fengyi.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
望之、强复对曰： 先帝圣德，贤良在位，作宪垂法，为无穷之规，永惟边竟之不赡，故《金布令甲》曰 边郡数被兵，离饥寒，夭绝天年，父子相失，令天下共给其费 ，固为军旅卒暴之事也。
闻天汉四年，常使死罪人入五十万钱减死罪一等，豪强吏民请夺假貣，至为盗贼以赎罪。
其后奸邪横暴，群盗并起，至攻城邑，杀郡守，充满山谷，吏不能禁，明诏遣绣衣使者以兴兵击之，诛者过半，然后衰止。
愚以为此使死罪赎之败也，故曰不便。
时，丞相魏相、御史大夫丙吉亦以为羌虏且破，转输略足相给，遂不施敞议。
望之为左冯翊三年，京师称之，迁大鸿胪。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi and Li Qiang retorted: The late emperor was a sage, benevolent and virtuous man who served in the imperial court. He formulated charters and promulgated decrees as a permanent system and long-term consideration of the living difficulties of the people on the border. Therefore, the first article of "Jinbulingjia" said The border counties suffered from wars several times and suffered from hunger and cold. The people could not live to the end of their lives and would die young. The father and son were separated and ordered the people of the world to jointly provide for their expenses. It turned out to be preparations for the sudden outbreak of war.
It is said that in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty, prisoners on death row were asked to pay 500,000 yuan to avoid the death penalty and have their sentences commuted to one level. Powerful officials, officials and the people begged, robbed, borrowed, and even acted as thieves to obtain money to atone for their crimes.
From then on, treacherous and evil people were rampant, and many thieves appeared at the same time, attacking cities and killing county guards. These people spread all over the mountains and plains, and officials could not stop them. The state publicly ordered to send embroidered messengers to lead the army to attack them, killing more than half of them, and then they declined and disappeared.
We believe that this is caused by letting the death row inmates redeem themselves, so it is inappropriate to do so.
At this time, Prime Minister Wei Xiang and Yushi doctor Bingji also believed that the Xiqiang rebels would be defeated and the transshipment supply could basically meet the needs, so they did not implement Zhang Chang's suggestions.
Xiao Wangzhi served as Zuo Fengyi for three years, and everyone in the capital praised him. Was promoted to Dahonglu.

summary:
summary line 3: During the Xiqiang rebellion, Xiao Wangzhi opposed Zhang Chang's proposal to allow criminals to atone for their sins by donating food, arguing it would lead to inequality and moral decay. His views were supported by Prime Minister Wei Xiang and Yushi doctor Bingji, and the proposal was not implemented.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
望之、强复对曰： 先帝圣德，贤良在位，作宪垂法，为无穷之规，永惟边竟之不赡，故《金布令甲》曰 边郡数被兵，离饥寒，夭绝天年，父子相失，令天下共给其费 ，固为军旅卒暴之事也。
闻天汉四年，常使死罪人入五十万钱减死罪一等，豪强吏民请夺假貣，至为盗贼以赎罪。
其后奸邪横暴，群盗并起，至攻城邑，杀郡守，充满山谷，吏不能禁，明诏遣绣衣使者以兴兵击之，诛者过半，然后衰止。
愚以为此使死罪赎之败也，故曰不便。
时，丞相魏相、御史大夫丙吉亦以为羌虏且破，转输略足相给，遂不施敞议。
望之为左冯翊三年，京师称之，迁大鸿胪。
translation: 
Xiao Wangzhi and Li Qiang retorted: The late emperor was a sage, benevolent and virtuous man who served in the imperial court. He formulated charters and promulgated decrees as a permanent system and long-term consideration of the living difficulties of the people on the border. Therefore, the first article of "Jinbulingjia" said The border counties suffered from wars several times and suffered from hunger and cold. The people could not live to the end of their lives and would die young. The father and son were separated and ordered the people of the world to jointly provide for their expenses. It turned out to be preparations for the sudden outbreak of war.
It is said that in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty, prisoners on death row were asked to pay 500,000 yuan to avoid the death penalty and have their sentences commuted to one level. Powerful officials, officials and the people begged, robbed, borrowed, and even acted as thieves to obtain money to atone for their crimes.
From then on, treacherous and evil people were rampant, and many thieves appeared at the same time, attacking cities and killing county guards. These people spread all over the mountains and plains, and officials could not stop them. The state publicly ordered to send embroidered messengers to lead the army to attack them, killing more than half of them, and then they declined and disappeared.
We believe that this is caused by letting the death row inmates redeem themselves, so it is inappropriate to do so.
At this time, Prime Minister Wei Xiang and Yushi doctor Bingji also believed that the Xiqiang rebels would be defeated and the transshipment supply could basically meet the needs, so they did not implement Zhang Chang's suggestions.
Xiao Wangzhi served as Zuo Fengyi for three years, and everyone in the capital praised him. Was promoted to Dahonglu.

summary:
summary line 4: Xiao Wangzith served as Zuo Fengyi for three years and was promoted to Dahonglu. He advised against marrying a princess to Wusun, citing the unreliability of the alliance, and the emperor eventually recalled the princess. During the Wufeng period, he advised against attacking the Huns during their civil strife, advocating for a policy of benevolence and assistance instead.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
天子采之，下诏曰： 盖闻五帝、三王教化所不施，不及以政。
今匈奴单于称北藩，朝正朔，朕之不逮，德不能弘覆。
其以客礼待之，令单于位在诸侯王上，赞谒称臣而不名。
及宣帝寝疾，选大臣可属者，引外属侍中乐陵侯史高、太子太傅望之、少傅周堪至禁中，拜高为大司马车骑将军，望之为前将军光禄勋，堪为光禄大夫，皆受遗诏辅政，领尚书事。
宣帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝元帝。
望之、堪本以师傅见尊重，上即位，数宴见，言治乱，陈王事。
望之选白宗室明经达学散骑、谏大夫刘更生给事中，与侍中金敞并拾遗左右。
四人同心谋议，劝道上以古制，多所欲匡正，上甚乡纳之。
初，宣帝不甚从儒术，任用法律，而中书宦官用事。
中书令弘恭、石显久典枢机，明习文法，亦与车骑将军高为表里，论议常独持故事，不从望之等。
恭、显又时倾仄见诎。
望之以为中书政本，宜以贤明之选，自武帝游宴后庭，故用宦者，非国旧制，又违古不近刑人之义，白欲更置士人，由是大与高、恭、显忤。
上初即位，谦让重改作，议久不定，出刘更生为宗正。
望之、堪数荐名儒茂才以备谏官。
会稽郑朋阴欲附望之，上疏言车骑将军高遣客为奸利郡国，及言许、史子弟罪过。
章视周堪，堪白令朋待诏金马门。
translation: 
The emperor adopted his opinion and issued an edict: It is said that places where the five emperors and three kings cannot implement education do not need to rule by decree.
Now the Xiongnu Chan is a vassal state that is close to him, and he comes to worship regularly. My ability is not as good as my own, and my virtue cannot be imposed on them from afar.
He entertained him with the etiquette of a guest, placed Shan Yu above the princes and kings, and addressed him as a minister without addressing him by name.
When Emperor Xuan was ill in bed, he selected ministers who could take care of his affairs. He summoned his relatives Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, Prince Tai Fu Xiao Wangzhi, and Shao Fu Zhou Kan to the palace. Shi Gao was appointed as the Chief Chariot Cavalry General, Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as the former General Guang Luxun, and Zhou Kan was appointed as the Guanglu Doctor.
When Emperor Xuan died, the prince inherited the title of Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Xiao Wangzhi and Zhou Kan were originally respected by the emperor as masters. After the emperor ascended the throne, he summoned them several times in his spare time to discuss how to deal with chaos and explain the things of being an emperor.
Xiao Wangzhi recommended Liu Gengsheng, a Sanqi admonishment official in the royal family who was well versed in Confucian classics, to serve as Shizhong, and he and Jin Chang, the attendant, served as ministers to the emperor.
The four people made plans together and used ancient systems to advise and guide the emperor. There were many things they hoped to support and correct. The emperor trusted them very much and adopted their opinions.
At the beginning, Emperor Xuan did not believe in Confucianism but Legalism, and the eunuchs in Zhongshu were in power.
Zhongshu Ling Honggong and Shi Xian had been managing the central secrets for a long time, and were familiar with the laws and regulations. They also acted as partners with the cavalry general Shi Gao. When discussing government affairs, they often adhered to the old rules alone and did not listen to the opinions of Xiao Wangzhi and others.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian were often refuted because of their paranoid and narrow opinions.
Xiao Wangzhi believed that Zhongshu was a key political position and should be replaced by wise candidates. Emperor Wu held banquets in the harem and appointed eunuchs, but this was not the traditional system of the country and violated the ancient principle of not being close to people who had been punished. He stated his idea of ​​replacing the post with scholars. From then on, he was in great conflict with Shi Gao, Hong Gong and Shi Xian.
Emperor Yuan had just succeeded to the throne, and it was difficult to change the old rules in dealing with humility. After long discussions and unable to make a decision, Liu Gengsheng was transferred to Zongzheng.
Xiao Wangzhi and Zhou Kan recommended famous Confucian scholars and outstanding talents to serve as admonishers several times.
Zheng Peng of Kuaiji secretly wanted to seduce Xiao Wangzhi, so he went to Shu and reported that the cavalry general Shi Gao sent guests to the county to do bad things for personal gain. He also talked about the crimes of Xu and Shi's children.
The emperor gave the memorial to Zhou Kan to read, and Zhou Kan told Zheng Peng to wait for orders at Jinmamen.

summary:
summary line 5: Xiao Wangzhi later became the imperial censor but fell out of favor with Emperor Xuan due to conflicts with the prime minister and accusations of arrogance and misconduct. He was demoted to Crown Prince Tutor. After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, Xiao Wangzhi served as a trusted advisor but clashed with eunuchs Hong Gong and Shi Xian. He was falsely accused of conspiring to depose the general and alienate the emperor's relatives, leading to his imprisonment. He committed suicide by drinking poison, deeply saddening Emperor Yuan.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
后遂并历刺史、郡守相，及为九卿，而博先至将军上卿，历位多于咸、育，遂至丞相。
育与博后有隙，不能终，故世以交为难。
咸字仲君，为丞相史，举茂材，好畤令，迁淮阳、泗水内史，张掖、弘农、河东太守。
所居有迹，数增秩赐金。
后免官，复为越骑校尉、护军都尉、中郎将，使匈奴，至大司农，终官。
由字子骄，为丞相西曹卫将军掾，迁谒者，使匈奴副校尉。
后举贤良，为定陶令，迁太原都尉，安定太守。
治郡有声，多称荐者。
初，哀帝为定陶王时，由为定陶令，失王指，顷之，制书免由为庶人。
哀帝崩，为复土校尉、京辅左辅都尉，迁江夏太守。
平江贼成重等有功，增秩为陈留太守，元始中，作明堂辟雍，大朝诸侯，征由为大鸿胪，会病，不及宾赞，还归故官，病免。
复为中散大夫，终官。
家至吏二千石者六七人。
赞曰：萧望之历位将相，籍师傅之恩，可谓亲昵亡间。
translation: 
Later, he served as governor, county governor, and state minister at the same time, and later he served as Jiuqing. Zhu Bo first served as general and minister, and experienced more official positions than Chen Xian and Xiao Yu, all the way to prime minister.
Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo later had a quarrel and could not end well, so the world thought it was difficult to make friends.
Xiao Xian lived there and became prime minister. He was promoted to Maocai and appointed magistrate of Liaoqi County. He was promoted to Jinbao, Hui Neishi, Zhang Zheng, Wang Di, and Jiongsai prefect.
Wherever he went, he made political achievements and received many increases in salary and gold rewards.
Later, he was dismissed from the official position and served as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School, the captain of the guard army, and the general of Zhonglang. He was sent as an envoy to the Huns and reached the rank of Da Sinong. He died in his post.
Xiao You, whose courtesy name was Zijiao, was appointed as the Prime Minister's general of Xicao Wei. He was promoted to the rank of Yezhi and was appointed as the deputy captain of the envoy to the Xiongnu.
Later, he was recommended as a virtuous person and appointed as magistrate of Dingtao County. He was promoted to captain of Taiyuan and prefect of Anding.
He is prestigious in governing states and counties, and many people praise and recommend him.
When Emperor Ai became King of Dingtao, Xiao You was appointed as the Dingtao Order, which went against the wishes of King Dingtao. Soon, the court dismissed Xiao You as a commoner.
After the death of Emperor Ai, he was appointed Captain of Futu, Captain of Jingfu and Zuofu, and was promoted to prefect of Jiangxia.
Because of their meritorious service in wiping out the bandits on the Yangtze River, Cheng Zhong and others were given an increased salary and were appointed as the prefect of Chenliu. During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Mingtang and Piyong were built, princes and kings were convened for large-scale court meetings, and Xiao You was recruited to serve as Dahonglu. It happened that he was ill and could not host etiquette and receive guests. He returned to his original official position, but was dismissed due to illness.
Later, he served as a doctor in Zhongsan and died in office.
There are six or seven people in the Xiao family who have reached the level of two thousand stone officials.
Zan said: Xiao Wangzhi's official position is general and deputy prime minister. By virtue of being the emperor's master, it can be said that he and the emperor are close to each other.

summary:
summary line 6: Xiao Wangzhi had eight sons, including Xiao Yu, Xiao Xian, and Xiao You, who became high officials. Xiao Yu was known for his bravery and integrity, serving in various positions despite frequent dismissals. Xiao Xian and Xiao You also held significant posts, with the Xiao family producing six or seven officials of two thousand stone level. The historian praised Xiao Wangzhi as a leading Confucian scholar and capable minister, lamenting his tragic death at the hands of sycophants and eunuchs.

