Summary uses chunk [11, 7, 12]

Chunk 11: 
original: 
硃序攻司马勋于成都，众溃，执勋，斩之。
秋七月癸酉，葬孝皇后于敬平陵。
九月甲午，曲赦梁、益二州。
冬十月辛丑，苻坚将王猛、杨安攻南乡，荆州刺史桓豁救之，师次新野而猛、安退。
以会稽王昱为丞相。
十二月，南阳人赵弘、赵忆等据宛城反，太守桓澹走保新野。
慕容将慕容厉陷鲁郡、高平。
二年春正月，北中郎将庾希有罪，走入于海。
夏四月，慕容将慕容尘寇竟陵，太守罗崇击破之。
苻坚将王猛寇凉州，张天锡距之，猛师败绩。
五月，右将军桓豁击赵忆，走之，进获慕容将赵槃，送于京师。
秋九月，以会稽内史郗愔为都督徐兗青幽四州诸军事、平北将军、徐州刺史。
冬十月乙巳，彭城王玄薨。
三年春三月丁巳朔，日有蚀之。癸亥，大赦。
夏四月癸巳，雨雹，大风折木。
秋八月壬寅，尚书令、卫将军、蓝田侯王述卒。
四年夏四月庚戌，大司马桓温帅众伐慕容。
秋七月辛卯，将慕容垂帅众距温，温击败之。
九月戊寅，桓温裨将邓遐、硃序遇将傅末波于林渚，又大破之。
戊子，温至枋头。
丙申，以粮运不继，焚舟而归。
辛丑，慕容垂追败温后军于襄邑。
冬十月，大星西流，有声如雷。
己巳，温收散卒，屯于山阳。
豫州刺史袁真以寿阳叛。
十一月辛丑，桓温自山阳及会稽王昱会于涂中，将谋后举。
十二月，遂城广陵而居之。
五年春正月己亥，袁真子双之、爱之害梁国内史硃宪、汝南内史硃斌。
二月癸酉，袁真死，陈郡太守硃辅立真子瑾嗣事，求救于慕容。
八月癸丑，桓温击袁瑾于寿阳，败之。
九月，苻坚将猛伐慕容，陷其上党。
广汉妖贼李弘与益州妖贼李金根聚众反，弘自称圣王，众万余人，梓潼太守周虓讨平之。
冬十月，王猛大破慕容将慕容评于潞川。
十一月，猛克鄴，获慕容，尽有其地。
六年春正月，苻坚遣将王鉴来援袁瑾，将军桓伊逆击，大破之。
丁亥，桓温克寿阳，斩袁瑾。
三月壬辰，监益宁二州诸军事、冠军将军、益州刺史、建城公周楚卒。
夏四月戊午，大赦，赐穷独米，人五斛。
苻坚将苻雅伐仇池，仇池公杨纂降之。
六月，京都及丹阳、晋陵、吴郡、吴兴、临海并大水。
秋八月，以前宁州刺史周仕孙为假节、监益梁二州诸军事、益州刺史。
冬十月壬子，高密王俊薨。
十一月癸卯，桓温自广陵屯于白石。
丁未，诣阙，因图废立，诬帝在籓夙有痿疾，嬖人相龙、计好、硃灵宝等参侍内寝，而二美人田氏、孟氏生三男，长欲封树，时人惑之，温因讽太后以伊霍之举。
己酉，集百官于朝堂，宣崇德太后令曰： 王室艰难，穆、哀短祚，国嗣不育储宫靡立。
琅邪王奕亲则母弟，故以入纂大位。
translation: 
Zhu Xu attacked Sima Xun in Chengdu. Sima Xun's army was defeated. Zhu Xu captured Sima Xun and killed him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Guiyou, Empress Xiao was buried in Jingping Mausoleum.
In September, during the Sino-Japanese War, Liang and Yizhou were granted amnesty.
In Xinchou, the tenth month of winter, Fu Jian's generals Wang Meng and Yang An attacked Nanxiang. Huan Huo, the governor of Jingzhou, went to rescue them. The army was stationed in Xinye, while Wang Meng and Yang An retreated.
Appointed King Sima Yu of Kuaiji as prime minister.
In December, Nanyang natives Zhao Hong, Zhao Yi and others rebelled against Wancheng, and the prefect Huan Dan fled to Xinye to defend it.
Murong Wei's general Murong Li captured Lu County and Gaoping.
In the spring of the second year of the lunar month, Yu hope, the general of Beizhonglang, committed a crime and fled to the sea.
In April of summer, Murong Wei's general Murong Chen invaded Jingling, and the prefect Luo Chong defeated them.
Fu Jian's general Wang Meng invaded Kou Liangzhou, Zhang Tianxi attacked them, and Wang Meng's army was severely defeated.
In May, the right general Huanhuo attacked Zhao Yi, but Zhao Yi escaped. Henghuo attacked, captured Murong Wei's general Zhao Pan, and escorted him to the capital.
In the ninth month of autumn, Xi Min, the internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqingyou's military affairs in the four states, the general of Pingbei, and the governor of Xuzhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Xuan, king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the spring of the third year, on the first day of the third lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. On Guihai day, there is a general amnesty.
In the summer of April, there are hail and tornadoes.
In the eighth month of autumn, Renyin, Shangshu Ling, General Wei, and Lantianhou Wangshu passed away.
In the fourth summer and April of Gengxu, Grand Sima Huanwen led an army to attack Murong Wei.
In the seventh month of autumn, at Xin Mao, Murong Wei's general Murong Chui led his army to resist Ju Wen, but Huan Wen defeated them.
In the ninth month of Wuyin, Huan Wen's generals Deng Xia and Zhu Xu met Murong Wei's general Fu Mobo in Linzhu, and defeated them again.
On Wuzi day, Huan Wen arrived at Fangtou.
On Bingshen day, because the grain and grass transportation could not be picked up, they burned the boats and returned.
On Xinchou day, Murong Chui caught up with and defeated Huan Wen's rear army in Xiangyi.
In October in winter, a comet flies down to the west with a thunderous sound.
On the day of Ji Si, Huan Wen gathered scattered troops and stationed them in Shanyang.
Yuzhou governor Yuan Zhen led Shouyang to rebel.
On Xinchou Day in November, Huan Wen went from Shanyang to Tuzhong to meet with King Sima Yu of Kuaiji to plan future actions.
In December, he settled in Guangling.
In the spring of the fifth year of the first lunar month of Jihai, Yuan Zhen's sons Yuan Shuangzhi and Yuan Aizhi killed Zhu Xian, the internal history of Liang, and Zhu Bin, the internal history of Runan.
In February Guiyou, Yuan Yuanzhen died. Zhu Fu, the governor of Chen County, appointed Yuan Zhen's son Yuan Jin as his heir and asked Murong Wei for help.
At the end of the fourth month of summer, Huan Wen's general Zhu Yao defeated Yuan Jin in Wuqiu.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. In August Guichou, Huan Wen defeated Yuan Jin in Shouyang. In September, Fu Jian's general Wang Meng attacked Murong Wei and captured Shangdang.
The demon thief Li Hong of Guanghan and Li Jingen, the demon thief of Yizhou, gathered people and horses to make a rebellion. Li Hong claimed to be the holy king and had more than 10,000 people. Zhou Gai, the prefect of Zitong, attacked and pacified them.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Meng defeated Murong Wei's general Murong Ping in Luchuan.
In November, Wang Meng conquered Ye, captured Murong Wei, and occupied all of his territory.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Fu Jian sent general Wang Jian to rescue Yuan Jin. General Huan Yi attacked and defeated Wang Jian.
On Dinghai day, Huan Wen captured Shouyang and killed Yuan Jin.
On Renchen in the third month, Zhou Chu, who oversaw the military affairs of the two states of Yining, the champion general, the governor of Yizhou, and the founding father of the city, died.
On the fifth day of the fourth month of the summer, there is a general amnesty, and food is given to the poor and the elderly and childless, with each person receiving five huks of dendrobium.
Fu Jian's general Fu Ya attacked Qiu Chi, and Qiu Chi Duke Yang Zuan surrendered.
In June, there are floods in Kyoto, Danyang, Jinling, Wujun, Wuxing, and Linhai.
In autumn and August, Zhou Shisun, the former governor of Ningzhou, was appointed as the governor of Jiajie, supervising the military affairs of the two states of Yiliang and the governor of Yizhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jun, king of Gaomi, passed away.
In the eleventh month of Guimao, Huan Wen went from Guangling to station in Baishi.
On Ding Wei day, he planned to depose the current emperor and install a new emperor. He spread rumors that the emperor had suffered from impotence when he was feuding. His favorites Xianglong, Jihao, Zhu Lingbao and others were involved in the affairs of the inner chamber, which made his two beauties Tian and Meng give birth to three sick sons. They wanted to be enfeoffed and enthroned. People were confused at that time, so Huan Wen used the deeds of Yi Yin and Huo Guang to tactfully persuade the Queen Mother.
On Jiyou day, hundreds of officials gathered in the court hall and announced the order of Empress Dowager Chongde: The royal family is in a difficult situation. Emperor Mu and Emperor Ai's fortunes were short-lived and they did not have time to raise offspring and could not establish a prince.
Langxie King Sima Yi was the emperor's half-brother according to relatives, so he was allowed to succeed the throne.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Mu, named Sima Dan, became emperor at age two after his father Emperor Kang's death. His mother, the Empress Dowager, served as regent. During his reign, there were numerous military campaigns, rebellions, and natural disasters. Key events included Huan Wen's successful attack on Shu, the rebellion of Fan Wen, and the deaths of various generals and officials. The state of Zhao under Shi Jilong and later his sons experienced internal turmoil, while Murong Huang and his son Murong Jun established the state of Yan. There were also conflicts with Fu Jian, who later proclaimed himself emperor of Qin. The text records a series of battles, surrenders, and changes in leadership across various regions, including Liangzhou and Yizhou. Emperor Mu died at age nineteen and was buried in Yongping Mausoleum.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
五年春正月戊戌，大赦，赐鳏寡孤独不能自存者，人米五斛。
北中郎将、都督徐兗青冀幽五州诸军事、徐兗二州刺史郗昙卒。
二月，以镇军将军范汪为都督徐兗青冀幽五州诸军事、安北将军、徐兗二州刺史。
平南将军、广州刺史、阳夏侯滕含卒。
夏四月，大水。
太尉桓温镇宛，使其弟豁将兵取许昌。
凤皇见于沔北。
五月丁巳，帝崩于显阳殿，时年十九。
葬永平陵，庙号孝宗。
哀皇帝讳丕，字千龄，成帝长子也。
咸康八年，封为琅邪王。
永和元年拜散骑常侍，十二年加中军将军，升平三年除骠骑将军。
五年五月丁巳，穆帝崩。
皇太后令曰： 帝奄不救疾，胤嗣未建。琅邪王丕，中兴正统，明德懋亲。
昔在咸康，属当储贰。
以年在幼冲，未堪国难，故显宗高让。
今义望情地，莫与为比，其以王奉大统。
于是百官备法驾，迎于琅邪第。
庚申，即皇帝位，大赦。
壬戌，诏曰： 朕获承明命，入纂大统。
顾惟先王宗庙，蒸尝无主，太妃丧庭，廓然靡寄，悲痛感摧，五内抽割。
宗国之尊，情礼兼隆，胤嗣之重，义无与二。
东海王奕，戚属亲近，宜奉本统，其以奕为琅邪王。
秋七月戊午，葬穆皇帝于永平陵。
慕容恪攻陷野王，守将吕护退保荥阳。
八月己卯夜，天裂，广数丈，有声如雷。
九月戊申，立皇后王氏。
穆帝皇后何氏称永安宫。
吕护叛奔于莫容。
冬十月，安北将军范汪有罪废为庶人。
十一月丙辰，诏曰： 显宗成皇帝顾命，以时事多艰，弘高世之风，树德博重，以隆社稷。
而国故不巳，康穆早世，胤祚不融。
朕以寡德，复承先绪，感惟永慕，悲育兼摧。
夫昭穆之义，固宜本之天属。
继体承基，古今常道。
宜上嗣显宗，以修本统。
十二月，加凉州刺史张玄靓为大都督陇右诸军事、护羌校尉、西平公。
隆和元年春正月壬子，大赦，改元。
translation: 
In the fifth year of spring and the first month of the year, there was a general amnesty, and five dendrobiums of rice were given to each of the widowers, widowers, and lonely people who had no means of living.
General Beizhong Lang, Commander-in-Chief Xu Yanqing, the military commanders of the five prefectures of Hebei You, and Xi Tan, the governor of Xu Yan and the second prefecture, passed away.
In February, Fan Wang, the general of the town army, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqing, the military commander of the five states of Hebei You, the general of Anbei, and the governor of Xu Yan's two states.
General Pingnan, governor of Guangzhou, and Marquis of Yangxia Tenghan passed away.
In April in summer, there are floods.
Taiwei Huanwen guarded Wancheng and sent his younger brother Huanhuo to lead troops to attack Xuchang.
Fenghuang appeared in Mianbei.
In May of Dingsi, Emperor Mu died in Xianyang Hall at the age of nineteen.
He was buried in Yongping Mausoleum, with the temple name Xiaozong.
Emperor Ai's name was Sima Pi, whose courtesy name was Qianling, and he was the eldest son of Emperor Cheng.
In the eighth year of Xiankang's reign, he was granted the title of King Langxie.
In the first year of Yonghe's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry. In the twelfth year, he was awarded the title of general of the Chinese army. In the third year of Shengping, he was promoted to the general of hussar cavalry.
In May of the fifth year of Shengping, Emperor Mu passed away.
The Empress Dowager ordered: Emperor Mu suddenly fell ill and could not be cured, and there was no successor. King Sima Pi of Langxie was an orthodox and virtuous descendant of the Zhongxing royal family.
In the past when he was in Xiankang, he should have been the crown prince.
Because he was too young to bear the national calamity, Emperor Xianzong abdicated his throne to Emperor Kang.
Now there is no one who can compare with him in terms of family ties, fame and status, so King Langxie can inherit the imperial throne.
So the officials prepared their carriages and went to King Langxie's mansion to greet him.
On the Gengshen day, King Langxie ascended to the throne of emperor and granted amnesty to the whole world.
On the day of Renxu, an edict was issued saying: I was able to accept the order of the Holy Ming and enter the court to accept the throne.
Thinking of the ancestral temple of the former kings, where the sacrifices had no owner, and the palace where the concubine mourned was empty and there was no place to stay, I felt very sad in my heart, and the five internal organs were as painful as being cut.
What the clan respects, love and etiquette are equally valued. The importance of descendants and heirs is no different from love and righteousness.
Sima Yi, the king of the East China Sea, is a close relative. He should respect the lineage of his clan and regard Sima Yi as the king of Langxie.
On the fifth day of the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Mu was buried in Yongping Mausoleum.
Murong Ke captured Ye Wang, and the guard general Lu Hu retreated to protect Xingyang.
On the night of Ji Mao in August, there was a crack in the sky, several feet wide, and there was a thunder-like sound.
In the ninth month of Wushen, Queen Wang was established.
Emperor Mu's wife, He, was called Yong'an Palace.
Lu Hu rebelled and defected to Morongwei.
In the tenth month of winter, General Fan Wang of Anbei committed a crime and was deposed as a commoner.
On Bingchen in November, an edict was issued saying: Emperor Xianzong Cheng left a legacy when he was dying. Because the current situation was difficult, he wanted to promote the customs of the high world and establish morality and justice to gain prestige, so as to revitalize the country.
However, national calamities continued. Emperor Kangdi and Emperor Mu passed away prematurely, and the continued national destiny was not prosperous.
With my meager virtues, I have inherited the legacy of the late king. I have longed for you in my heart, and my heart is broken by grief.
The righteousness of the two emperors Zhao and Mu should have been obeyed by God.
Inheriting the great cause of the country is a common practice in ancient and modern times.
It should be followed by the Xianzong to extend the lineage of the clan.
In December, Zhang Xuanliang, the governor of Jialiang Prefecture, was appointed as the military commander of Longyou, the military commander of Qiang, and the Duke of Xiping.
In the spring and first month of the first year of Longhe, Renzi received a general amnesty and changed his reign name.

summary:
summary line 1: Emperor Ai, named Sima Pi, succeeded Emperor Mu. He was the eldest son of Emperor Cheng. The Empress Dowager declared him the rightful heir due to Emperor Mu's lack of an heir. His reign was marked by continued conflicts with Murong Wei's forces, who captured Luoyang, and the ongoing influence of Huan Wen. Emperor Ai was known for his interest in immortality, consuming elixirs that poisoned him and rendered him unable to govern, leading the Empress Dowager to resume regency. He died at age twenty-five and was buried in Anping Mausoleum.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
不图德之不建，乃至于斯。昏浊溃乱，动违礼度。
有此三孽，莫知谁子。
人伦道丧，丑声遐布。
既不可以奉守社稷，敬承宗庙，且昏孽并大，便欲建树储籓。
诬罔祖宗，颂移皇基，是而可忍，孰不可怀！
今废奕为东海王，以王还第，供卫之仪，皆如汉朝昌邑故事。
但未亡人不幸，罹此百忧，感念存没，心焉如割。
社稷大计，义不获已。
临纸悲塞，如何可言。
于是百官入太极前殿，即日桓温使散骑侍郎刘享收帝玺绶。
帝著白帢单衣，步下西堂，乘犊车出神兽门。
群臣拜辞，莫不觑欷。
侍御史、殿中监将兵百人卫送东海第。
初，桓温有不臣之心，欲先立功河朔，以收时望。
及枋头之败，威名顿挫，逐潜谋废立，以长威权。
然惮帝守道，恐招时议。
以宫阐重闷，床笫易诬，乃言帝为阉，遂行废辱。
初，帝平生每以为虑，尝召术人扈谦筮之，卦成，答曰： 晋室有盘石之固，陛下有出宫之象。
竟如其言。
咸安二年正月，降封帝为海西县公。
四月，徙居吴县，敕吴国内史刁彝防卫，又遣御史顾允监察之。
十一月，妖贼卢悚遣弟子殿中监许龙晨到其门，称太后密诏，奉迎兴复。
帝初欲从之，纳保母谏而止。
龙曰： 大事将捷，焉用兒女子言乎？
帝曰： 我得罪于此，幸蒙宽宥，岂敢妄动哉！
且太后有诏，便应官属来，何独使汝也？
汝必为乱。
因叱左右缚之，龙惧而走。
translation: 
Unexpectedly, he did not establish his moral character and would reach such a state of ignorance and disorder, violating etiquette and law.
I don’t know whose son these three evil obstacles are.
Human ethics are lost, and the reputation of ugliness spreads far and wide.
Sima Yi could not uphold the country and respect his ancestors, but he was also extremely confused and rebellious, yet he wanted to make a prince a vassal king.
It is intolerable to deceive the ancestors and shake the foundation of the royal family, but what is intolerable!
Now Sima Yi is deposed as the King of Donghai, and he returns to the mansion as the King of Donghai. The standards for enshrining and guarding are the same as those of the King of Changyi in the Han Dynasty.
It is my misfortune that I have encountered so many sorrows. Thinking of the living and the dead makes my heart feel like a knife.
The great plan of the country, the great righteousness has not been carried out.
How could I still speak when I was so sad in front of the paper?
So all the officials entered the front hall of Taiji, and that day Huan Wen asked Liu Xiang, the minister of Sanqi, to take back the emperor's seal and ribbon.
The emperor, wearing a white silk hat and single clothes, walked down the west hall and drove out of the Divine Beast Gate in an ox cart.
The ministers bid farewell respectfully, all looking at him and sighing.
The censor and eunuch led a hundred soldiers to escort him to Donghai Mansion.
At first, Huan Wen had the ambition to seize the throne and planned to perform meritorious service in Heshuo first to gain the attention and reputation of the world.
After Fangtou failed, his prestige was suddenly damaged, so he secretly planned to abolish the emperor and establish a new emperor in order to increase his power.
But he was also afraid that the emperor would stick to the right path and worry that doing so would attract criticism.
Because the affairs in the boudoir were secretive and the affairs in the bed were easy to be falsely accused, Gong Chan spread the word that the emperor was a man without sexual ability. So it was deposed.
At first, the emperor was often worried about Huan Wen. He once summoned the sorcerer Hu Qian to lower his banquet. After the hexagrams came out, Hu Qian said: The Jin royal family is as stable as a rock. Your Majesty has the slightest sign of leaving the palace.
The result turned out to be the same as Hu Qian said.
In the first month of the second year of Xian'an, the emperor was granted the title of Duke of Haixi County.
In April, he moved to Wu County. He ordered Wu Domestic Shi Diao Yi to defend himself, and sent Yu Shi Gu Yun to supervise.
In November, the demon thief Lu Ju sent his disciple Xu Long to the gate of Haixi County Duke early in the morning. He said that there was a secret edict from the Queen Mother to welcome Haixi County Duke back to restore the throne.
The emperor initially wanted to obey Xu Long, but gave up after listening to the centralized and unified advice.
Xu Long said: "The big thing is about to succeed, why do you still listen to women?"
The emperor said: I committed such a crime, but fortunately I was forgiven. How dare I act rashly!
And if the Queen Mother has an edict, she should send her confidants. Why should it be you?
You must be causing trouble.
He shouted to his attendants to tie him up, and Xu Long fled in panic.

summary:
summary line 2: The Deposed Emperor, Sima Yi, was the half-brother of Emperor Ai. He ascended the throne after Emperor Ai's death without an heir, as decreed by the Empress Dowager. His reign saw further wars with Murong Wei and Fu Jian. Huan Wen, seeking to increase his power after a failed military campaign, deposed the emperor. Huan Wen spread rumors about the emperor's impotence and illicit affairs to justify the deposition. The emperor was deposed as the King of Donghai and later granted the title of Duke of Haixi County. He was moved to Wu County, where he lived in fear, avoiding political involvement and indulging in pleasure to preserve his life. He died at age forty-five. The text concludes with a historical commentary praising Emperor Mu's stable early reign, Emperor Ai's generosity, and the deposed emperor's wisdom in refusing a plot to restore him to the throne.

