Summary line 0
Span: 45-99 (score=0.3450)

original:
二年春正月丁丑，大赦天下。
二月壬午，日有食之。
己亥，复置西河、上郡属国都尉官。
夏五月庚戌，分太山为济北国，分乐成、涿郡、勃海为河间国。
丙辰，封皇弟寿为济北王，开为河间王，淑为城阳王，绍封故淮阳王昞子侧为常山王。赐公卿以下至佐史钱、布各有差。
己未，遣副校尉阎磐讨北匈奴，取伊吾卢地。
丁卯，绍封故齐王晃子无忌为齐王，北海王睦子威为北海王。
车师前后王并遣子入侍。
月氏国遣兵攻西域长史班超，超击降之。
六月辛卯，中山王焉薨。
秋七月乙卯，大将军窦宪出屯凉州。
九月，北匈奴遣使称臣。
冬十月，遣行中郎将班固报命南单于。
遣左谷蠡王师子出鸡鹿塞，击北匈奴于河云北，大破之。
三年春正月甲子，皇帝加元服，赐诸侯王、公、将军、特进、中二千石、列侯、宗室子孙在京师奉朝请者黄金，将、大夫、郎吏、从官帛。
赐民爵及粟帛各有差，大酺五日。
郡国中都官系囚死罪赎缣，至司寇及亡命，各有差。
庚辰，赐京师民酺，布两户共一匹。
二月，大将军窦宪遣左校尉耿夔出居延塞，围北单于于金微山，大破之，获其母阏氏。
夏六月辛卯，尊皇太后母比阳公主为长公主。
辛丑，阜陵王种薨。
冬十月癸未，行幸长安。
诏曰： 北狄破灭，名王仍降，西域诸国，纳质内附，岂非祖宗迪哲重光之鸿烈欤？
寤寐叹息，想望旧京。其赐行所过二千石长吏已下及三老、官属钱帛，各有差；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛。
十一月癸卯，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
诏曰： 高祖功臣，萧、曹为首，有传世不绝之义。
曹相国后容城侯无嗣。
朕望长陵东门，见二臣之垅，循其远节，每有感焉。
忠义获宠，古今所同。
可遣使者以中牢祠，大鸿胪求近亲宜为嗣者，须景风绍封，以章厥功。
十二月，复置西域都护、骑都尉、戊己校尉官。
庚辰，至自长安，减弛刑徒从驾者刑五月。
四年春正月，北匈奴右谷蠡王於除鞬自立为单于，款塞乞降。
遣大将军左校尉耿夔授玺绶。
三月癸丑，司徒袁安薨。闰月丁丑，太常丁鸿为司徒。
夏四月丙辰，大将军窦宪还至京师。
丙辰，郡国十三地震。
窦宪潜图弑逆。
庚申，幸北宫。
诏收捕宪党射声校尉郭璜，璜子侍中举，卫尉邓叠，叠弟步兵校尉磊。皆下狱死。
使谒者仆射收宪大将军印绶，遣宪及弟笃、景就国，到皆自杀。
是夏、旱、蝗。
秋七月己丑，太尉宋由坐党宪自杀。
八月辛亥，司空任隗薨。
癸丑，大司农尹睦为太尉，录尚书事。
丁巳，赐公卿以下至佐史钱、谷各有差。
冬十月己亥，宗正刘方为司空。
十二月壬辰，诏： 今年郡国秋稼为旱、蝗所伤，其什四以上勿收田租、刍稿；有不满者，以实除之。
武陵零陵澧中蛮叛。烧当羌寇金城。
五年春正月乙亥，宗祀五帝于明堂，遂登灵台，望云物。
大赦天下。
戊子，千乘王伉薨。
辛卯，封皇帝万岁为广宗王。
二月戊戌，诏有司省减内外厩及凉州诸苑马。
自京师离宫果园上林广成囿悉以假贫民，恣得采捕，不收其税。

translation:
On the twenty-sixth day of the first month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On the second day of February, there is a solar eclipse.
On the 19th, the captaincy officers of the vassal states of Xihe and Shangjun were once again established.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in summer, Taishan was divided into Jibei Kingdom, and Lecheng, Zhuojun, and Bohai were divided into Hejian Kingdom.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the emperor's younger brother Liu Shou was named King of Jibei, Liu Kai was named King of Hejian, and Liu Shu was named King of Chengyang. The late King of Huaiyang, Liu Ribingzi Liu Bian, was named the King of Changshan. They were given various titles ranging from Gongqing to Zuoshi Qianbu.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Yan Pan, the deputy captain, was sent to attack the Northern Xiongnu and take the Yiwulu land.
On the 18th, Liu Wuji, the son of Liu Huang, the late King of Qi, was named the King of Qi, and Liu Wei, the son of Liu Mu, the King of Beihai, was named the King of Beihai.
Before and after the chariot master, the king sent his son to serve in the palace.
The Yuezhi Kingdom sent troops to attack Shi Banchao, the governor of the Western Regions. Banchao counterattacked and made the enemy surrender.
On June 12, Liu Yan, King of Zhongshan, passed away.
On the seventh day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, General Dou Xian sent troops to station in Liangzhou.
In September, the Northern Huns sent envoys to declare their vassal status.
In the tenth month of winter, Ban Gu, the agent of Zhonglang, was sent to pay a return visit to Nan Shanyu.
He sent his son, King Zuo Guli, to send troops to Jilu Sei to attack the Northern Huns north of Heyun, and severely defeated them.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, the emperor crowned him. Reward princes, princes, generals, Te Jin, Zhong 2,000 stones, princes, and clan descendants with gold requested from the court in the capital, generals, officials, officials, and official silk.
They were given various gifts of nobles and grains of grain and silk, and they were given wine and entertainment for five days.
In all counties and counties, officials range from those on death row to atonement for their crimes, to those serving as bandits and exiles.
In Gengchen, the people of the capital were rewarded with wine and food, and two households were given a piece of cloth.
In February, General Dou Xian sent Geng Kui, the captain of the left school, to send troops to Yansai and besiege Beidan Yu in Jinwei Mountain. They defeated him and captured Beidan Yu's Mulan family.
On the eighteenth day of June in the summer, Princess Biyang, the Queen Mother, was honored as the eldest princess.
On the 28th, Fuling King Liu Zhong passed away.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor arrived in Chang'an.
The edict said: Beidi was destroyed, the famous kings surrendered one by one, and the countries in the Western Region accepted their pledges. Isn't this a great cause accomplished by the spiritual energy of the ancestors?
I sighed while sleeping, wishing to look back at the old capital. Today, the rewards are given to the officials below the 2,000-stone official and the three elders. They are officials, money and silk. Those who are widowers, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live will be given three husks of corn each.
On the second day of November, visit the Gaomiao Temple to worship the Eleven Tombs.
The edict said: Among the outstanding officials of Emperor Gaozu, Xiao He and Cao Shen were the first to be recommended. They have great significance in being famous for centuries and not being drowned.
The descendants of Cao Xiangguo, Marquis Rongcheng, have no descendants.
I looked at the east gate of Changling Tomb and saw the tomb of Erchen. I was moved every time I recalled the distant past.
Loyalty and righteousness are favored, both in ancient and modern times.
The envoys were ordered to sacrifice pigs and sheep, and Dahonglu sought out close relatives who were suitable as offspring. When the scenery came, he continued to create titles to commend his merits.
In December, the Western Region Protectorate, Cavalry Captain, and Wuji School Lieutenant were re-established.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the emperor returned from Chang'an, and the prisoners who had been released from their shackles followed the emperor's companions, who had their sentences reduced to five months.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, King Yougu Li of the Northern Xiongnu established himself as a chanyu in order to remove the enemy and seek surrender.
Geng Kui, the commander-in-chief of Zuo Xiaowei, was sent to grant the imperial seal.
On March 14th, Situ Yuan An passed away. On the ninth day of the third month, Taichang Ding Hong was appointed as Situ.
On April 18th in the summer, General Dou Xian returned to the capital.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse. On the 19th, there was an earthquake in the county.
Dou Xian secretly murdered the emperor and rebelled.
On the 23rd, the emperor arrived at Beigong.
The order was issued to arrest Dou Xian's party member Shesheng Colonel Guo Huang. Guo Huang's son, Lieutenant Guo Ju, Guard Lieutenant Deng Die, and Deng Die's younger brother, Infantry Colonel Deng Lei, were all imprisoned to death.
He sent an emissary, Pu She, to collect the seal and ribbon of General Dou Xian, and sent Dou Xian and his brothers Dou Du and Dou Jing to the feudal country. They all committed suicide upon arrival.
This summer, there was drought and locust plague.
On July 23rd in autumn, Taiwei Song You committed suicide because Dou Xian rebelled against the party.
On August 15th, Sikong Renkai passed away.
On the 17th, Yin Mu, the chief minister, was appointed as Taiwei and in charge of Shangshu affairs.
On the 21st, the rewards ranged from Duke Qing to Assistant Secretary Qian Gu.
On the fourth day of October in winter, Zongzheng and Liu Fang were appointed Sikong.
On Renchen in December, the edict said: If the autumn grain harvest of the county is poor this year due to drought and locust plague, and the loss is more than four-tenths, the land rent and firewood will not be collected; otherwise, if the loss is less than four-tenths, the actual amount will be exempted.
The barbarians in Lingling, Wuling, rebelled, and Qiang bandits burned and plundered Jincheng.
On the 11th day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, the Five Emperors were worshiped in the Mingtang, and they climbed to the spiritual platform to look at the clouds and weather of the sky, earth and clouds.
Amnesty to the world.
On the 24th, Qiancheng King Liu and his wife passed away.
On the 27th, Liu Wansui, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King Guangzong.
On the fifth day of February, an edict was issued to reduce the number of internal and external stables and Liangzhou horse gardens and horses.
Since then, the orchards of the imperial palace in Shanglin and Guangcheng have all been given to the poor, allowing them to harvest without collecting taxes.

summary:
Emperor Xiaohe, named Zhao, was the fourth son of Emperor Suzong. His mother, Liang Guiren, was framed by Empress Dou and died of melancholy; Empress Dou adopted him. He became crown prince in the seventh year of Jianchu and ascended the throne at age ten in the second year of Zhanghe. Empress Dou was honored as empress dowager and attended court. Early edicts renamed several states and moved kings accordingly. Emperor Xiaozhang was buried in Jingling. The empress dowager issued an edict appointing Dou Xian, her brother, to a role, but he declined; she then appointed Deng Biao as Taifu to oversee secretarial affairs. The late emperor was honored with the temple name Suzong. Kings began entering their fiefdoms. The emperor visited temples. An edict lifted bans on salt and iron, allowing the people to boil salt and cast iron with taxes. A drought occurred in the capital. Dou Xian was appointed chariot and cavalry general to attack the Northern Huns. Parthian envoys offered lions and hornless lins. In the first year of Yongyuan, Dou Xian defeated the Northern Xiongnu at Jiluo Mountain, carved a stone at Yanran Mountain, and returned. The Northern Shanyu sent tribute. Mount Kuaiji collapsed. An edict praised the victory and ordered sacrifices. Dou Xian was made general, and Liu Shang became chariot and cavalry general. Prisoners were released to military camps. Fuling King Liu Yan died. Floods occurred in nine counties. A general amnesty was declared. A solar eclipse occurred. Captaincy officers were re-established. Taishan was divided, and new kings were appointed. Yan Pan attacked the Northern Xiongnu. Liu Wuji and Liu Wei were named kings. The Yuezhi Kingdom attacked Ban Chao, who counterattacked. Zhongshan King Liu Yan died. Dou Xian stationed troops in Liangzhou. The Northern Huns sent envoys to declare vassalage. Ban Gu was sent to Nan Shanyu. The emperor was crowned, with rewards and amnesty. Dou Xian besieged and defeated the Northern Shanyu. Princess Biyang was honored as eldest princess. Fuling King Liu Zhong died. The emperor visited Chang'an, issued edicts, and sacrificed at tombs. The Western Region Protectorate was re-established. The Northern Xiongnu king established himself as chanyu. Situ Yuan An died; Ding Hong succeeded. Dou Xian returned to the capital. A solar eclipse and earthquake occurred. Dou Xian plotted rebellion; the emperor arrested his party, and Dou Xian and his brothers committed suicide. Drought and locust plague occurred. Taiwei Song You committed suicide. Sikong Renkai died; Yin Mu became Taiwei. Liu Fang became Sikong. An edict exempted land rent due to drought and locusts. Barbarians and Qiang rebelled. The emperor worshiped the Five Emperors and granted amnesty. Kings died or were granted titles. Edicts reduced horse stables and gave orchards to the poor. Grand Tutor Deng Biao died. Earthquakes occurred. Edicts addressed talent selection and relief. Hailstorms occurred. King Liu Wansui died. The Xiongnu chanyu was killed. Edicts encouraged food conservation. Taiwei Yin Mu died; Zhang Youfu succeeded. Wuling rebels surrendered. Qiang fled. Nan Dan rebelled. Foreigners presented rhinos and elephants. Situ Dinghong died. Relief was provided to the poor. Xu Yanghou Ma Guang committed suicide. Liu Fang became Situ; Zhang Fen became Sikong. Edicts addressed refugees and talent selection. The Qiang submitted. King Liu Shu died. A solar eclipse occurred. Drought led to reduced sentences. The emperor inspected prisons. Ban Chao defeated Yanqi and Yuli; the Western Regions surrendered. Fenghou fled. Deng Hong attacked Fenghou. Ren Shang defeated Fenghou. Bohai was transferred to Jizhou. Wuling barbarians rebelled. Deng Hong and others were imprisoned. A solar eclipse occurred. The emperor consulted officials. Edicts addressed talent selection. Qiancheng became Le'an. King Pei died. Earthquakes occurred. The noble Yin became queen, with rewards. King Liu Dang died. Relief was provided. Locust plagues occurred. The Xiongnu king rebelled and was killed. The queen of Che Division rebelled. Edicts addressed locust plagues. Guangyang County was restored. Beihai King Liu Wei committed suicide. King Chen died. A fire occurred in Nangong. Barbarians paid tribute. Earthquakes occurred. King Jinan died. Ban Chao killed the queen of Che Division. Liu Xun became king. Locusts and drought occurred. Edicts exempted rent. Locusts flew over the capital. Xianbei bandits plundered. Empress Dowager Dou died. Shaodang Qiang raided. Situ Liu Fang committed suicide. Liang Guizhen was honored as empress dowager. Lu Gai became Situ. Zhang Fen left; Han Xun became Sikong. Ruolu prison officer was restored. Edicts addressed embankments. Floods occurred. Sikong Hanxun died. Taishan was empty. Linxi office was restored. Rain occurred in five states. Shaodang Qiang paid tribute. Liang Wang died. Edicts provided relief. A general amnesty was declared. The right school lieutenant was restored. Edicts addressed lavish burials. Bailang and Zhilou Boyi submitted. Edicts addressed disasters and talent selection. Rewards were given. Rinan barbarians rebelled. Relief was provided. Landslides occurred. A solar eclipse occurred. Taiwei Zhang Youfu was dismissed; Zhang Yu succeeded. Western Region kings were given seals. Shaodang Qiang rebelled. The emperor visited Dongguan. King Rencheng died. Relief was provided. A fire occurred. Zhou Tuna defeated Shaodang Qiang. Edicts exempted rent. Parthian envoys offered lions. Edicts addressed talent selection in border regions. Xianbei raided. Situ Lu Gai was dismissed; Lu Gong succeeded. Wuman rebelled. King Donghai died. Xihai County was repaired. The emperor visited Piyong. Wuman were defeated. Relief was provided. Xianglin office was established. Queen Yin was deposed. Edicts exempted Xianglin. King Changshan died. Rain occurred. Edicts addressed floods. Noble Deng became queen. Sikong Chaokan was dismissed; Xu Fang succeeded. Officials were re-established. Edicts addressed refugees. Relief was provided. A solar eclipse occurred. Edicts allowed fishing. King Jinan died. Gu'an Iron Office was restored. The emperor inspected the south. Rain occurred. The emperor visited Zhangling. King Langyi died. Light punishments were ordered. Edicts addressed poor farmers. Wine-making was banned. Inspectors were sent. King Zhao died. Drought occurred. Edicts addressed officials. Situ Lu Gong was dismissed; Zhang Youfu succeeded. Edicts exempted rent. Situ Zhang Youfu died. Xu Fang became Situ; Chen Chong became Sikong. The emperor climbed Baichui Mountain. Northern Huns paid tribute. The governor of eastern Liaoning was restored. Talents were selected. Gaoguli raided. A general amnesty was declared. Yongdi collapsed. Geng Kui defeated the Qi people. The emperor died at age twenty-seven. Prince Liu Long became crown prince. After Dou Xian's death, the emperor governed personally. He consulted officials during disasters and did not publicize auspicious omens. The South China Sea offered longan and litchi, causing deaths; an edict stopped the tribute. Historians noted population growth and territorial expansion under Emperor He.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 324-367 (score=0.5012)

original:
孝殇皇帝讳隆，和帝少子也。
元兴元年十二月辛未夜，即皇帝位，时诞育百余日。
尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
北匈奴遣使称臣，诣敦煌奉献。
延平元年春正月辛卯，太尉张禹为太傅。
司徒徐防为太尉，参录尚书事，百官总己以听。
封皇兄胜为平原王。
癸卯，当禄勋梁鲔为司徒。
三月甲申，葬孝和皇帝于慎陵，尊庙曰穆宗。
丙戌，清河王庆、济北王寿、河间王开、常山王章始就国。
夏四月庚申，诏罢祀官不在祀典者。
鲜卑寇渔阳，渔阳太守张显追击，战没。
丙寅，以虎贲中郎将邓骘为车骑将军。
司空陈宠薨。
五月辛卯，皇太后诏曰： 皇帝幼冲，承统鸿业，朕且权佐助听政，兢兢寅畏，不知所济。
深惟至治之本，道化在前，刑罚在后。将稽中和，广施庆惠，与吏民更始。
其大赦天下。
自建武以来诸犯禁锢，诏书虽解，有司持重，多不奉行，其皆复为平民。 壬辰，河东垣山崩。
六月丁未，太常尹勤为司空。
郡国三十七雨水。
己未，诏曰： 自夏以来，阴雨过节，暖气不效，将有厥咎。
寤寐忧惶，未知所由。
昔夏后恶衣服，菲饮食，孔子曰 吾无间然 。
今新遭大忧，且岁节未和，彻膳损服，庶有补焉。
其减太官、导官、尚方、内署诸服御珍膳靡丽难成之物。
丁卯，诏司徒、大司农、长乐少府曰： 朕以无德，佐助统政，夙夜经营，惧失厥衷。
思惟治道，由近及远，先内后外。
自建武之初以至于今，八十余年，宫人岁增，房御弥广。
又宗室坐事没入者，犹托名公族，甚可愍焉。
今悉免遣，及掖庭宫人，皆为庶民，以抒幽隔郁滞之情。
诸官府、郡国、王侯家奴婢姓刘及疲癃羸老，皆上其名，务令实悉。
秋七月庚寅，敕司隶校尉、部刺史曰： 夫天降灾戾，应政而至。
间者郡国或有水灾，妨害秋稼。
朝廷惟咎，忧惶悼惧。
而郡国欲获丰穰虚饰之誉，遂覆蔽灾害，多张垦田，不揣流亡，竞增户口，掩匿盗贼，令奸恶无惩，署用非次，选举乖宜，贪苛惨毒，延及平民。
刺史垂头塞耳，阿私下比， 不畏于天，不愧于人 。
假贷之恩，不可数恃，自今以后，将纠其罚。
二千石长吏其各实核所伤害，为除田租，刍稿。
八月辛亥，帝崩。
癸丑，殡于崇德前殿。年二岁。
赞曰： 孝和沈烈，率由前则。
王赫自中，赐命强慝。
抑没祥符，登显时德。
殇世何早，平原弗克。

translation:
Emperor Xiaoshang was named Long, and he was the youngest son of Emperor Xiaoshang.
On the night of December 22nd of the first year of Yuanxing, when he became emperor, he was only more than a hundred days old.
The queen is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager governs the court.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to pay tribute to Dunhuang.
On the thirteenth day of the first spring of the first year of Yanping, Zhang Yu was appointed Taifu.
Situ Xu Fang was appointed as Taiwei, and he participated in the affairs of the general secretary. All officials had their own duties and obeyed his command.
The emperor's brother Liu Sheng was granted the title of King of Pingyuan.
On the 25th, Guang Luxun and Liang Tuna were appointed as Situ.
On the fifth day of March, Emperor Xiaohe was buried in Shenling, and the temple title was Muzong.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, King Liu Qing of Qinghe, King Liu Shou of Jibei, King Liu Kai of Hewen, and King Liu Zhang of Changshan arrived in Fengguo for the first time.
On the 13th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, an edict was issued to remove the priests who were not at the ceremony.
The Xianbei bandits raided Yuyang, and Zhang Xian, the prefect of Yuyang, pursued them, but Zhang Xian died in the battle.
On the 19th, he appointed Huben Zhonglang, General Deng Zhi, as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
Sikong Chen Chong passed away.
On May 15, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is young and has inherited a great cause. I will temporarily assist in political affairs and work conscientiously. I don't know how to do a good job in the cause.
Deeply considering the fundamentals of governing the country and ensuring peace of the country, with guidance and enlightenment at the forefront and punishment at the back, I will study the golden mean, apply benefits widely, and move forward together with the officials and the people.
Today there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Prisoners who had been imprisoned since the Jianwu period were liberated by edicts, but the people in charge were extremely cautious and often did not implement them. Now they are all restored to civilian status. On the 16th, a landslide occurred in Hedongyuan County.
On the first day of June, Taichang Yin Qin was appointed Sikong.
Thirty-seven places in the county have a lot of rain.
On the 13th, the edict stated: Since the beginning of summer, there has been too much rain and insufficient heating, which is due to the evildoers of those in power.
I am worried day and night, not knowing what to do.
Confucius said, "I have no problem with this."
I have been in great trouble recently. And if the seasons are not harmonious, it may be beneficial to eliminate waste in food and clothing.
With the exception of Taiguan, Daoguan, Shangfang, and various internal departments, it is difficult to do things that are luxurious and luxurious.
On the 21st, he ordered Situ, Da Sinong, and Changle Shaofu to say: As a person of poor virtue, I assist the emperor in managing government affairs and run the affairs day and night, for fear of neglecting my duties.
When considering the method of governing a country, one should start from near to far, internal first and then external.
From the early years of Jianwu to the present, for more than eighty years, the number of people in the palace has increased every year, and more houses have been built.
Moreover, it is very pitiful for a clan member to be expelled from the palace due to a crime, but to be named as a duke.
Nowadays, all the people are exempted from dismissal, and all the people in the harem are common people, so as to relieve their suffering of isolation and stagnation.
All slaves and maids named Liu from all government offices, prefectures, and princes' families, as well as those who are tired, sick, and old, must be put on the list, and all must be implemented.
On the 15th day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, he ordered the Sili Xiaowei and the Ministry of Governors to say: "The disasters from heaven are caused by bad political affairs."
There may be floods in the county recently, which will hinder the autumn harvest.
The court is to blame and is worried and frightened.
However, the county only wanted to gain the false reputation of a bumper harvest, so it covered up disasters, overreported the acres of sown fields, failed to estimate the number of refugees, overreported household registrations, and concealed thieves, so that evildoers were not punished.
The governor lowered his head and plugged his ears, colluding with others, not afraid of divine punishment or sorry for others.
Small favors cannot win over people for a long time. From now on, correction will be punished.
Two thousand stone chief officials should each verify the disaster situation and exempt themselves from land rent and drafts.
On the sixth day of August, the emperor passed away.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, he was buried in the front hall of Chongde at the age of two.
Historians praised: Emperor He's calmness and firmness were the result of following the traditions of his ancestors.
He suddenly got angry and punished the evildoers, and the traitors like Dou Xian were subdued.
Instead of preaching about auspicious signs and auspicious omens, we can select and appoint talented people like Deng Biao who are popular among the people.
Emperor Shang died young, and like Liu Sheng, the king of Pingyuan, could not bear the heavy responsibility and enjoy the world.

summary:
Emperor Xiaoshang, named Long, was the youngest son of Emperor He. He became emperor at over a hundred days old. The empress dowager governed. Northern Huns paid tribute. Zhang Yu became Taifu. Xu Fang became Taiwei. Liu Sheng became king. Liang Tuna became Situ. Emperor He was buried. Kings entered fiefdoms. Edicts removed improper priests. Xianbei raided; Zhang Xian died. Deng Zhi became chariot and cavalry general. Sikong Chen Chong died. The empress dowager issued an edict granting amnesty and restoring prisoners. Landslides occurred. Yin Qin became Sikong. Rain occurred. Edicts addressed waste. The empress dowager ordered the release of palace women and slaves. Edicts addressed disasters and corruption. The emperor died at age two. Historians praised Emperor He's calmness and punishment of traitors, while Emperor Shang died young.

================================================================================

