Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元皇后，王莽姑也。
莽自谓黄帝之后，其《自本》曰：黄帝姓姚氏，八世生虞舜。
舜起妫汭，以妫为姓。
至周武王封舜后妫满于陈，是为胡公，十三世生完。
完字敬仲，奔齐，齐桓公以为卿，姓田氏。
十一世，田和有齐国，二世称王，至王建为秦所灭。
项羽起，封建孙安为济北王。
至汉兴，安失国，齐人谓之 王家 ，因以为氏。
文、景间，安孙遂字伯纪，处东平陵，生贺，字翁孺。
为武帝绣衣御史，逐捕魏郡群盗坚卢等党与，及吏畏懦逗留当坐者，翁孺皆纵不诛。
它部御史暴胜之等奏杀二千石，诛千石以下，及通行饮食坐连及者，大部至斩万余人，语见《酷吏传》。
翁孺以奉使不称免，叹曰： 吾闻活千人者有封子孙，吾所活者万余人，后世其兴乎！
翁孺既免，而与东平陵终氏为怨，乃徙魏郡元城委粟里，为三老，魏郡人德之。
元城建公曰： 昔春秋沙麓崩，晋史卜之，曰： 阴为阳雄，土火相乘，故有沙麓崩。
后六百四十五年，宜有圣女兴。
其齐田乎！今王翁孺徙，正真其地，日月当之。
元城郭东有五鹿之虚，即沙鹿地也。
后八十年，当有贵女兴天下 云。
翁孺生禁，字稚君，少学法律长安，为廷尉史，本始三年，生女政君，即元后也。
禁有大志，不修廉隅，好酒色，多取傍妻，凡有四女八男；长女君侠，次即元后政君，次君力，次君弟；长男凤孝卿，次曼元卿，谭子元，崇少子，商子夏，立子叔，根稚卿，逢时委卿，唯凤、崇与元后政君同母。
母，適妻，魏郡李氏女也。
translation: 
Queen Xiaoyuan is Wang Mang's aunt.
Wang Mang claimed to be a descendant of the Yellow Emperor. In his autobiography of his lineage, "Ziben", he said: The Yellow Emperor's surname was Yao, and his eighth-generation grandson was Yu Shun.
Shun rose from the bend of Ma River and took Yan as his surname.
At the time of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty, Yan Man, a descendant of Shun, was granted the title of Lord Hu in Chen. He was passed down to the thirteenth generation and gave birth to Chen Wan.
Chen Wan, whose courtesy name was Jingzhong, fled to the State of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi worshiped him as his minister, and his surname was Tian.
In the eleventh generation, Tian He took control of the Qi State, and passed on for two more generations to become king. When it was passed to Qi King Tian Jian, the Qi State was destroyed by the Qin State.
Xiang Yu raised an army and made Tian An, the grandson of King Tian Jian of Qi, the King of Jibei.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Tian An lost his feudal state. The people of Qi called him "Wang Family" and took Wang as their surname.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, Wang An's grandson Wang Sui, also named Boji, lived in Shupingling. Wang Sui gave birth to Wang He, also named Wengru.
Weng Ru was Emperor Wu's embroidered censor. He arrested the associates of the bandit Jian Lu and others in Wei County, as well as the cowardly and stagnant officials who should be punished. Weng Ru let them all go without severe punishment.
Other censors, such as Bao Shengzhi, petitioned to kill officials worth two thousand shi. Officials with less than 1,000 shi were left at their disposal. There were also those who were implicated due to their dealings. In severe cases, tens of thousands of people were killed. These are all recorded in the "Biography of Cool Officials".
Weng Ru was dismissed because he was ordered to perform a task that was not in line with the emperor's wishes. He sighed and said: I heard that if you save a thousand people, your descendants will be rewarded. I have rescued more than ten thousand people. Does it mean that the descendants will be prosperous!
After Weng Ru resigned from office, he developed a grudge against the Zhong family of Shu Pingling, so he moved to Suli, Yuancheng Committee, Wei County, and became the third elder. The people of Wei County were very grateful to him.
Duke Jiang of Yuancheng said: In the past, during the Spring and Autumn Period, Shalu collapsed. Taishi of the Jin Dynasty performed a divination and said: Yin was strong and Yang was declining, and earth and fire were fighting, so Shalu collapsed.
Six hundred and forty-five years later, a virtuous woman will appear.
It was probably the Qitian clan. Now Wang Wengru happened to move to this place, and the time is consistent with the divination.
To the east of Yuancheng are the ruins of Wulu, which is the former site of Shalu.
Eighty years later, the Wang family will have a noble daughter who will flourish in the world.
Wang Wengru gave birth to Wang Jin, named Zhijun. When he was young, he studied law in Chang'an and became a court official. In the third year of Benshi, she gave birth to her daughter Zhengjun, who was also the Queen of Yuan Dynasty.
Wang Jin had great ambitions, indulged in wine and sex, and took many concubines. He had four daughters and eight sons in total: the eldest daughter Junxia, ​​the second daughter was the empress of the Yuan Dynasty, the third daughter Junli, and the younger daughter Jundi; Only Wang Feng, Wang Chong and Yuan Hou Zhengjun were born from the same mother.
Their mother is the head wife, the daughter of Li family in Wei County.
summary:
Queen Xiaoyuan was the aunt of Wang Mang, who claimed descent from the Yellow Emperor. According to Wang Mang's autobiography "Ziben," the lineage traced from the Yellow Emperor through Yu Shun to various descendants who were granted titles during the Zhou Dynasty. The family eventually took the surname Wang after Tian An, a descendant of Qi royalty, lost his feudal state during the Han Dynasty and was called "Wang Family" by the people of Qi. Wang Mang's ancestor Wang He (Wengru) served as Emperor Wu's embroidered censor. Unlike other harsh officials who killed tens of thousands, Wengru showed leniency and was dismissed for not following the emperor's wishes. He saved over ten thousand people and predicted his descendants would prosper. After resigning, he moved to Yuancheng in Wei County, where a divination predicted that a virtuous woman would appear in 645 years, and later that the Wang family would have a noble daughter who would flourish.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
后以妒去，更嫁为河内苟宾妻。
初，李亲任政君在身，梦月入其怀。
及壮大，婉顺得妇人道。
尝许嫁未行，所许者死。
后东平王聘政君为姬，未入，王薨。
禁独怪之，使卜数者相政君， 当大贵，不可言。
禁心以为然，乃教书，学鼓琴。
五凤中，献政君，年十八矣，入掖庭为家人子。
岁余，会皇太子所爱幸司马良娣病，且死，谓太子曰： 妾死非天命，乃诸娣妾良人更祝诅杀我。
太子怜之，且以为然。
及司马良娣死，太子悲恚发病，忽忽不乐，因以过怒诸娣妾，莫得进见者。
久之，宣帝闻太子恨过诸娣妾，欲顺适其意，乃令皇后择后宫家人子可以虞侍太子者，政君与在其中。
及太子朝，皇后乃见政君等五人，微令旁长御问知太子所欲。
太子殊无意于五人者，不得已于皇后，强应曰： 此中一人可。
是时政君坐近太子，又独衣绛缘诸于，长御即以为是。
皇后使侍中杜辅、掖庭令浊贤交送政君太子宫，见丙殿。得御幸，有身。
先是者，太子后宫娣妾以十数，御幸久者七八年，莫有子，及王妃一幸而有身。
甘露三年，生成帝于甲馆画堂，为世適皇孙。
宣帝爱之，自名曰骜，字太孙，常置左右。
后三年，宣帝崩，太子即位，是为孝元帝。
立太孙为太子，以母王妃为婕妤，封父禁为阳平侯。
后三日，婕妤立为皇后，禁位特进，禁弟弘至长乐卫尉。
永光二年，禁薨，谥曰顷侯。
长子凤嗣侯，为卫尉侍中，皇后自有子后，希复进见。
太子壮大，宽博恭慎，语在《成纪》。
其后幸酒，乐燕乐，元帝不以为能。
而傅昭仪有宠于上，生定陶共王。
王多材艺，上甚爱之，坐则侧席，行则同辇，常有意欲废太子而立共王。
时凤在位，与皇后、太子同心忧惧，刺侍中史丹拥右太子，语在《丹传》。
上亦以皇后素谨慎，而太子先帝所常留意，故得不废。
元帝崩，太子立，是为孝成帝。
translation: 
Later, he was divorced due to jealousy and remarried to Hanoi Goubin's wife.
At first, when Mrs. Li was pregnant with Zhengjun, she dreamed of the moon falling into her belly.
When Zhengjun grows up, he will be gentle and abide by women's conduct.
I was once betrothed to someone, but before I got married, the other person died.
Later, King Shuhu married Zhengjun as his concubine, but before Zhengjun entered the palace, King Shuping also passed away.
Wang Jin felt strange and asked a magician to see Mr. Zheng. He said it was extremely valuable.
Wang Jinxin also thought that this was the case, so he taught his daughter to read and play the piano.
In the year of Wufeng, Lord Xianzheng entered the palace. She was already eighteen years old at that time and was a family member in Yeting.
More than a year later, Sima Liangdi, the crown prince's favorite, fell ill. When she was about to die, she said to the prince: My death was not due to God's will, but because your concubines killed me by practicing blessings and curses.
The prince took pity on her and thought so.
After Sima Liangdi died, the prince fell ill with grief and became depressed. He vented his anger on all the concubines, and no one could get his summons.
After meeting for a while, Emperor Xiaoxuan heard that the prince hated all the concubines, so he planned to follow his wishes and let the queen choose the family members in the harem who could make the prince happy, and Zhengjun was among them.
When the prince came to pay homage, the queen called out Zheng Jun and five other people, and secretly sent Chang Yu beside her to ask the prince which one he liked.
The prince had no interest in making five people at first, but he couldn't go against the queen's kindness, so he reluctantly replied: "One of them is okay."
At that time, Masahiro was sitting near the prince and was wearing a red-edged loose coat alone. Changyu thought that the prince was talking about her.
The queen sent her attendants Du Fu and Ye Tingling Zhuoxian to send the prince into the prince's womb. He was summoned by the prince in the Bing Palace and was lucky enough to become pregnant.
It turned out that there were more than a dozen concubines in the prince's harem, and some of them had been concubines for seven or eight years, but none of them gave birth. However, when the princess got the concubine, she got pregnant once.
In the third year of Ganlu's reign, Emperor Cheng was born in the Jiaguan Painting Hall, and he was the eldest grandson of the current generation.
Emperor Xuan liked this grandson very much and named him Liu Yuan, also known as Taisun, and often took him with him.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan died and the prince ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Xiaoyuan.
The grandson was registered as the prince, the prince's mother, the princess, was named Jieyu, and Wang Jieyu's father, Wang Jin, was named Marquis of Yangping.
Three days later, Wang Jieyu was appointed queen, Wang Jin was given the special throne, and Wang Jin's younger brother Wang Hong became the Changle Guardsman.
In the second year of Yongguang's reign, Wang Jin died and Mi was given the title of Marquis of Qing.
The eldest son Wang Feng inherited the title of Marquis and was appointed as a Weiwei Shizhong. Since the queen gave birth to her son, she has rarely been summoned by Emperor Yuan.
When the prince grew up, he was generous, understanding, respectful and prudent. These are all recorded in the "Chronicle of the Emperor".
Later, the prince was fond of drinking and feasting for fun. Emperor Yuan thought he had no talent.
Fu Zhaoyi was favored by the emperor and gave birth to King Dingtao Gong.
King Gong was versatile, and Emperor Yuan liked him very much. He let him sit next to him when he ate, and let him ride in the same chariot with him when traveling. He often planned to abolish the prince and establish a king in his place.
At that time, Wang Feng was an official in the court and was worried about this matter together with the queen and the prince. Fortunately, Shi Dan, the servant, supported the prince. This incident was recorded in Shi Dan's original biography.
Emperor Yuan also felt that the queen was always cautious, and the prince was highly valued by the late emperor, so he did not abolish the prince.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, the prince ascended the throne and became Emperor Xiaocheng.
summary:
Wengru's son Wang Jin fathered Wang Zhengjun, who became Empress of Emperor Yuan. Before her birth, her mother dreamed of the moon falling into her belly. Zhengjun was gentle and virtuous. After two betrothals ended with her fiancés dying, a fortune-teller declared her extremely valuable. She entered the palace at eighteen and became pregnant after being summoned by the crown prince, giving birth to Emperor Cheng. When Emperor Yuan considered deposing the prince due to his fondness for King Dingtao Gong, Wang Feng (the queen's brother) worried alongside the queen. Emperor Yuan ultimately did not depose the prince due to the queen's caution and the late emperor's regard for him. After Emperor Yuan's death, Emperor Cheng ascended, honoring his mother as Empress Dowager and appointing Wang Feng as Grand General. The Wang family's prosperity began, with five brothers granted marquisates on the same day, known as the Five Marquises.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
大将军凤用事，上遂谦让无所颛。
左右常荐光禄大夫刘向少子歆通达有异材。
上召见歆，诵读诗赋，甚说之，欲以为中常侍，召取衣冠。
临当拜，左右皆曰： 未晓大将军。
上曰： 此小事，何须关大将军？
左右叩头争之。
上于是语凤，凤以为不可，乃止。
其见惮如此。
上即位数年，无继嗣，体常不平。
定陶共王来朝，太后与上承先帝意，遇共王甚厚，赏赐十倍于它王，不以往事为纤介。
共王之来朝也，天子留，不遣归国。
上谓共王： 我未有子，人命不讳，一朝有它，且不复相见。
尔长留侍我矣！
其后，天子疾益有瘳，共王因留国邸，旦夕侍上，上甚亲重。
大将军凤心不便共王在京师，会日蚀，凤因言： 日蚀，阴盛之象，为非常异。
定陶王虽亲，于礼当奉藩在国。
今留侍京师，诡正非常，故天见戒。
宜遣王之国。
上不得已于凤而许之。
共王辞去，上与相对涕泣而决。
京兆尹王章素刚直敢言，以为凤建遣共王之国非是，乃奏封事言日蚀之咎矣。
天子召见章，延问以事，章对曰： 天道聪明，佑善而灾恶，以瑞异为符效。
今陛下以未有继嗣，引近定陶王，所以承宗庙，重社稷，上顺天心，下安百姓。
此正义善事，当有祥瑞，何故致灾异？
灾异之发，为大臣颛政者也。
今闻大将军猥归日蚀之咎于定陶王，建遣之国，苟欲使天子孤立于上，颛擅朝事以便其私，非忠臣也。
translation: 
General Wang Feng held great power, and Emperor Cheng was humble in everything and did not dare to have his own way.
The ministers on the left and right often recommended Liu Xin, the youngest son of Guanglu doctor Liu Xiang, saying that he was knowledgeable and talented.
Emperor Cheng summoned Liu Xin and asked him to read poems. He was very happy and planned to make him a regular attendant and ordered someone to fetch him clothes and hats.
When it was time to pay homage, everyone on the left and right said: I wonder if the general agrees.
Emperor Cheng said: Do you still need to ask the general for such a small matter?
Kowtow to the left and right and insist on doing so.
Emperor Cheng told Wang Feng. Wang Feng thought it was impossible, so he had to give up.
Emperor Cheng was afraid of Wang Feng to such an extent.
Emperor Cheng had been in power for several years, had no heirs, and was often unwell.
King Dingtao came to see him. The Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng followed the late emperor's wishes and treated him favorably. They rewarded him ten times as much as other princes and kings. They did not take to heart the past festivals that almost destroyed the prince.
After the king came to see him, Emperor Cheng kept him in the capital and refused to let him return to his country.
Emperor Cheng said to King Gong: I still have no son, and human life is impermanent and cannot be denied. Once something changes, we will no longer be able to meet each other.
Just stay in the capital and stay with me!
Later, Emperor Cheng's illness worsened, so the king lived in the palace and served Emperor Cheng day and night. Emperor Cheng was very close to him and relied on him.
General Wang Feng believed that it was not good for him to stay in the capital. When a solar eclipse happened, Gong Feng said: A solar eclipse is a phenomenon caused by excessive Yin energy, and it is an unusual disaster.
Although King Dingtao is a close relative, he should still guard the feudal state according to etiquette.
Now I am staying in the capital to serve His Majesty. I have violated the right path and broken the rules. Therefore, God has shown a vision to warn me.
King Dingtao should be allowed to return to the feudal state.
Emperor Cheng had no choice but to agree.
When King Gong was leaving, Emperor Cheng and he faced each other and said goodbye in tears.
Wang Zhang of Jingzhao Yin was upright by nature and dared to speak out. He thought it was wrong for Wang Feng to suggest that the Communist king should return to his country, so he wrote a secret memorial to Emperor Cheng, explaining who was responsible for the solar eclipse.
Emperor Cheng summoned Wang Zhang and asked about this matter. Wang Zhang replied: God is holy and wise. It protects good and punishes evil. It is verified by auspicious and disasterous celestial phenomena.
Now that your majesty has no heirs, he is close to King Dingtao in order to continue the ancestral temple, focus on the country and the country, obey the will of God on the one hand, and appease the people on the other.
This is a good and moral thing. There should be auspicious signs coming. How could it lead to disaster?
The occurrence of disasters is due to the dictatorship of ministers.
Now I heard that General Jingcha blamed King Dingtao for the solar eclipse and suggested that he should be sent back to the feudal state. This was because he wanted to isolate His Majesty and allow him to rule exclusively to satisfy his own desires. This is not the behavior of a loyal minister.
summary:
Wang Feng held immense power, with Emperor Cheng afraid to act independently. When Emperor Cheng wanted to appoint Liu Xin as a regular attendant, he was told to ask Wang Feng first, who refused. Emperor Cheng had no choice but to give up. Wang Feng dominated all state affairs, and ministers dared not look directly at him.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
于是凤起视事。
上使尚书劾奏章： 知野王前以王舅出补吏，而私荐之，欲令在朝阿附诸侯；又知张美人体御至尊，而妄称引羌胡杀子荡肠，非所宜言。
遂下章吏。
廷尉致其大逆罪，以为 比上夷狄，欲绝继嗣之端；背畔天子，私为定陶王。
章死狱中，妻子徙合浦。
自是公卿见凤，侧目而视，郡国守相、刺吏皆出其门。
又以侍中太仆音为御史大夫，列于三公。
而五侯群弟，争为奢移，赂遗珍宝，四面而至；后廷姬妾，各数十人，僮奴以千百数，罗钟馨，舞郑女，作倡优，狗马驰逐；大治第室，起土山渐台，洞门高廊阁道，连属弥望。
百姓歌之曰： 五侯初起，曲阳最怒，坏决高都，连竟外杜，土山渐台西白虎。
其奢僣如此。
然皆通敏人事，好士养贤，倾财施予，以相高尚。
凤辅政凡十一岁。
阳朔三年秋，凤疾，天子数自临问，亲执其手，涕泣曰： 将军病，如有不可言，平阿侯谭次将军矣。
凤顿首泣曰： 谭等虽与臣至亲，行皆奢僣，无以率导百姓，不如御史大夫音谨敕，臣敢以死保之。
及凤且死，上疏谢上，复固荐音自代，言谭等五人必不可用。
天子然之。
初，谭倨，不肯事凤，而音敬凤，卑恭如子，故荐之。
凤薨，天子临吊赠宠，送以轻车介士，军陈自长安至渭陵，谥曰敬成侯。
子襄嗣侯，为卫尉。
御史大夫音竟代凤为大司马车骑将军，而平阿侯谭位特进，领城门兵。
谷永说谭，令让不受城门职，由是与音不平，语在《永传》。
translation: 
So Wang Feng rose up and took charge again.
Emperor Cheng sent a minister to impeach Wang Zhang for his crime, saying: Knowing that King Feng Ye had previously served in the capital as the uncle of King Xiao, he recommended him privately in order to make the ministers in the court attach themselves to the princes and kings; and he also knew that Zhang Meiren was serving the emperor, but he led Qiang and Hu people to kill the first child to pure blood. This is not what a minister should say.
Then Wang Zhang was handed over to the judge for trial.
The Tingwei accused Wang Zhang of treason, thinking that he wanted to cut off the emperor's heirs by comparing the emperor to the Yi Di; he betrayed the emperor and secretly planned to be King Dingtao.
Wang Zhang died in prison, and his wife and children were exiled to Hepu.
From then on, when the ministers saw Wang Feng, they did not dare to look directly at him, and the local officials in the prefecture and state were all his cronies.
He also named Wang Yin, the imperial servant in the palace, as the official censor, ranking among the three nobles.
The five younger brothers who were granted the title of marquis, competed to spend extravagantly, bribed and gave away treasures in an endless stream. Each family had dozens of concubines in the back courtyard, and there were hundreds or even thousands of slaves. They rang bells and chimes, beautiful women danced, watched acrobatics, and sensual dogs and horses;
The common people sang songs for them and said: When the five princes first became prosperous, Quyanghou was the strongest. He destroyed Gaodu and built a palace, and then spread to the Waidu area. The earth and mountains gradually became taller, like the emperor's White Tiger Palace.
They are so extravagant and arrogant.
But these people are well versed in the ways of the world, like to cultivate wise men, and spend all their money in this area to show that they are not vulgar.
Wang Feng assisted the government for a total of eleven years.
In the autumn of the third year of Yangshuo, Wang Feng was seriously ill. Emperor Cheng personally visited his home many times. He held his hand and cried and said: The general is seriously ill. If he fails, let Ping'ahou Wang Tan take his place.
Wang Feng kowtowed and said with tears: Although Wang Tan and others are my closest relatives, they advocate extravagance and cannot set an example for the people of the world. They are not as cautious as Wang Yin, the imperial censor. I am willing to die to recommend them.
When Wang Feng died, Shangshu thanked the emperor, but insisted on recommending Wang Yin to replace him, saying that Wang Tan and other five people must not be reused.
Emperor Cheng agreed.
At first, Wang Tan was arrogant and refused to serve Wang Feng, but Wang Yin respected Wang Feng and was as humble as a son to his father, so Wang Feng recommended him.
After Wang Feng's death, Emperor Cheng went to pay his respects in person and presented it to the Wang family as a light chariot and warrior. During the funeral, soldiers lined up from Chang'an to Weiling, and Mi was given the title of Marquis Jingcheng.
Wang Feng's son Wang Xiang inherited the title of Marquis and served as a Weiwei.
Wang Yin, the imperial censor, finally replaced Wang Feng as the Great Sima Cavalry General, and Ping'ahou Wang Tan was given the special rank to command the troops defending the city.
Gu Yong persuaded Wang Tan not to accept the position of guarding the city gate, and he became dissatisfied with Wang Yin from then on. This incident is recorded in "Gu Yong's Biography".
summary:
After Wang Feng's death, Wang Yin succeeded him as Grand Sima, followed by Wang Shang and Wang Gen. The Wang family's extravagance was legendary, with concubines, slaves, and lavish palaces. The common people sang songs comparing their palaces to the emperor's White Tiger Palace. Despite their excesses, they cultivated wise men to appear refined.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
王氏亲属，侯者凡十人。
上悔废平阿侯谭不辅政而薨也，乃复进成都侯商以特进，领城门兵，置幕府，得举吏如将军。
杜邺说车骑将军音令亲附商，语在《邺传》。
王氏爵位日盛，唯音为修整，数谏正，有忠节，辅政八年，薨。
吊赠如大将军，谥曰敬侯。
子舜嗣侯，为太仆侍中。
特进成都侯商代音为大司马卫将军，而红阳侯立位特进，领城门兵。
商辅政四岁，病乞骸骨，天子悯之，更以为大将军，益封二千户，赐钱百万。
商薨，吊赠如大将军故事，谥曰景成侯，子况嗣侯。
红阳侯立次当辅政，有罪过，语在《孙宝传》。
上乃废立，而用光禄勋曲阳侯根为大司马票骑将军，岁余益封千七百户。
高平侯逢时无材能名称，是岁薨，谥曰戴侯，子买之嗣侯。
绥和元年，上即位二十余年无继嗣，而定陶共王已薨，子嗣立为王。
王祖母定陶傅太后重赂遗票骑将军根，为王求汉嗣，根为言，上亦欲立之，遂征定陶王为太子。
时根辅政五岁矣，乞骸骨，上乃益封根五千户，赐安车驷马，黄金五百斤，罢就第。
先是，定陵侯淳于长以外属能谋议，为卫尉侍中，在辅政之次。
是岁，新都侯莽告长伏罪与红阳侯立相连，长下狱死，立就国，语在《长传》。
故曲阳侯根荐莽以自代，上亦以为莽有忠直节，遂擢莽从侍中骑都尉光禄大夫为大司马。
岁余，成帝崩，哀帝即位。
translation: 
Among the relatives of the Wang family, there are a total of ten people who have been granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Cheng regretted that he had dismissed Ping'a Hou Wang Tan and died without being able to assist the government, so he gave the title of Chengdu Hou Wang Shang Tejin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city, set up a shogunate, and recommend officials like a general.
Du Ye persuaded the cavalry general Wang Yin to get close to Wang Shang. This incident was recorded in the "Biography of Du Ye".
The Wang family's official ranks were getting higher and higher, but Wang Yin was the only one who paid attention to the law, spoke out and persuaded many times, and had the character of a loyal minister. He assisted in political affairs for eight years and passed away.
Emperor Cheng personally went to pay his respects as he did to Wang Feng, presented him with honors and favors, and gave him the title of Jinghou.
Wang Yin's son Wang Shun succeeded to the throne and became the imperial servant.
Te Jin, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, replaced Wang Yin as General Sima Wei, and gave Hong Yang Hou Wang the position of Te Jin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city.
Wang Shang assisted the government for four years when he became seriously ill and asked to resign. Emperor Cheng took pity on him and made him a general. He also rewarded 2,000 households and 1 million yuan.
When Wang Shang passed away, Emperor Cheng personally paid his respects according to the old system of generals and bestowed him with honors and favors. Mi was given the title Marquis of Jingcheng. Wang Shang's son Wang Kuang succeeded him as Marquis.
The Marquis of Hongyang should have joined the court to assist the government in order, but he committed a crime and gave up. This incident is recorded in "Sun Baozhuan".
Emperor Cheng gave up Wang Li and appointed Guangluxun Quyanghou Wanggen as the Grand Sima Hussar General. More than a year later, 1,700 households were added as fiefs.
The Marquis of Gaoping had neither talent nor fame. He died that year and was given the title of Marquis of Dai. His son Wang Maizhi succeeded him as Marquis of Dai.
In the first year of Suihe, Emperor Cheng had ascended the throne for more than 20 years and still had no heirs. King Dingtao Gong had died and his son succeeded to the throne.
Queen Dingtao, the grandmother of King Dingtao, bribed General Wang Gen with generous gifts in the hope of making King Dingtao the prince. Wang Gen spoke on her behalf. Emperor Cheng also planned to make King Dingtao the prince, so he summoned him to the capital to be crowned prince.
At this time, Wang Gen had been assisting the government for five years. He asked to resign and return to his hometown. Emperor Cheng added 5,000 households to Wang Gen's fiefdom, rewarded him with a carriage, four horses, and five hundred catties of gold. He dismissed his official position and returned to his mansion.
Previously, Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, was able to make suggestions as a relative and served as a guard official, assisting in government affairs.
In this year, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, reported Chun Yuchang's past crimes and had colluded with Hongyang Marquis Wang Li. Chun Yuchang was imprisoned and died, and Wang Li returned to his fiefdom. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Chunyu Chang".
Therefore, Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, recommended Wang Mang to replace him. Emperor Cheng also believed that Wang Mang was loyal and upright, so he promoted Wang Mang from the position of Guanglu Guanglu to the rank of Chief Sima.
More than a year later, Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai ascended the throne.
summary:
Emperor Cheng had no heirs for over twenty years. King Dingtao's grandmother bribed Wang Gen to make him crown prince. After Emperor Cheng's death, Emperor Ai ascended but was unhappy with the Wang family's power. He eventually forced Wang Mang and others to return to their fiefdoms. When Emperor Ai died without an heir, the Empress Dowager appointed Wang Mang as Grand Sima, and they installed Emperor Ping, who was only nine years old.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
太后所至属县，辄施恩惠，赐民钱、帛、牛、酒，岁以为常。
太后从容言曰： 我始入太子家时，见于丙殿，至今五六十岁尚颇识之。
莽因曰： 太子宫幸近，可一往游观，不足以为劳。
于是太后幸太子宫，甚说。
太后旁弄儿病在外舍，莽自亲侯之。
其欲得太后意如此。
平帝崩，无子，莽征宣帝玄孙选最少者广戚侯子刘婴，年二岁，托以卜相为最吉。
乃风公卿奏请立婴为孺子，令宰衡安汉公莽践祚居摄，如周公傅成王故事。
太后不以为可，力不能禁，于是莽遂为摄皇帝，改元称制焉。
俄而宗室安众侯刘崇及东郡太守翟义等恶之，更举兵欲诛莽。
太后闻之，曰： 人心不相远也。
我虽妇人，亦知莽必以是自危，不可。
其后，莽遂以符命自立为真皇帝，先奉诸符瑞以白太后，太后大惊。
初，汉高祖入咸阳至霸上，秦王子婴降于轵道，奉上始皇玺。
及高祖诛项籍，即天子位，因御服其玺，世世传受，号曰汉传国玺，以孺子未立，玺臧长乐宫。
及莽即位，请玺，太后不肯授莽。
莽使安阳侯舜谕指。
舜素谨敕，太后雅爱信之。
舜既见，太后知其为莽求玺，怒骂之曰： 而属父子宗族蒙汉家力，富贵累世，既无以报，受人孤寄，乘便利时，夺取其国，不复顾恩义。
人如此者，狗猪不食其余，天下岂有而兄弟邪！
且若自以金匮符命为新皇帝，变更正朔服制，亦当自更作玺，传之万世，何用此亡国不详玺为，而欲求之？
我汉家老寡妇，旦暮且死，欲与此玺俱葬，终不可得！
translation: 
Whenever the Queen Mother passed through a county, she would show great kindness to the people and reward the people with money, silk, cattle and wine. This gradually formed a habit.
The Queen Mother said with a gentle face: When I first entered the Prince's house, I was summoned in the Bing Hall. It has been fifty or sixty years now, and I can still remember the scene at that time.
Wang Mang said, "The prince's palace is nearby. You can go there for fun without any trouble."
Therefore, the Queen Mother visited the Prince's palace and was very happy.
Nong'er, who was beside the Queen Mother, fell ill and lived in a foreign house. Wang Mang went to greet him personally.
Wang Mang went so far as to cater to the Queen Mother's wishes.
Emperor Ping died without heirs, so Wang Mang summoned Liu Ying, the youngest great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan and the son of Marquis Guangqi, who was only two years old, on the pretext that he would divine the most auspicious divination.
It suggested that the ministers petitioned to establish Liu Ying as a son, and let the Prime Minister Anhan Duke Mang temporarily occupy the position of emperor and handle political affairs, just like the story of Zhou Gong assisting the king.
The Queen Mother believed that this was not allowed, but she could not stop it with her own strength, so Wang Mang became the regent, changed the reign name, and exercised the power of the emperor.
Not long after, Liu Chong, the Marquis of Anzhong of the clan, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Shujun, and others were disgusted with Wang Mang and raised troops one after another to kill him.
When the Queen Mother heard the news, she said: People think the same thing.
Even though I am a woman, I also know that Wang Mang will definitely be worried about his own safety and cannot do this.
Later, Wang Mang used the talisman to establish himself as the true emperor, and first presented those auspicious signs to the Queen Mother, who was shocked.
At the beginning, when Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty entered Xianyang and reached Bashang, Prince Qin Ying surrendered at Zhidao Pavilion and presented Qin Shihuang's national seal.
When the great ancestor executed Xiang Ji and ascended the throne as the emperor, he personally wore this national seal and passed it down from generation to generation, known as the Mochuan national seal. Because Ruzi had not yet ascended the throne, the imperial seal was kept in Changle Palace.
When Wang Mang came to the throne, he wanted to pass on the national seal, but the Queen Mother refused to give it to him.
Wang Mang instructed Anyang Marquis Wang Shun to convey his intention to the Queen Mother.
Wang Shun has always been cautious and thoughtful, and the Queen Mother usually likes to trust him.
Wang Shun paid a visit to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother knew that he was here to ask for the imperial seal for Wang Mang, so she angrily scolded him and said: Your father and son families have been favored by the Han family and have been rich and powerful for generations. Not only did you not repay the favor, you accepted the task of entrusting the orphans, but you took the opportunity to seize other people's countries. You no longer care about your kindness.
People like this are worse than pigs and dogs. How can there be brothers like you in the world!
Besides, I used the Golden Chamber Talisman to become the new emperor and changed the calendar and the system of clothing, carriages and horses, so I should make my own national seal and pass it on to all generations. Why do I need to come here to get the national seal that is unlucky for the country to perish?
I am an old widow of the Han family. I am about to die. I want to be buried with this Fang Chuanguo Seal, but you will not be able to get it in the end!
summary:
Wang Mang gradually consolidated power, eventually becoming regent and later usurping the throne to establish the Xin dynasty. The Empress Dowager refused to give him the imperial seal, angrily denouncing him for betraying the Han dynasty. She threw the seal on the ground, predicting the Wang family would be exterminated. Wang Mang changed her title to "New Empress Dowager Wenmu," severing her connection to Han. She died at eighty-four, and ten years later, Han soldiers killed Wang Mang.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
莽更汉家黑貂，著黄貂，又改汉正朔伏腊日。
太后令其官属黑貂，至汉家正腊日，独与其左右相对饮酒食。
太后年八十四，建国五年二月癸丑崩。
三月乙酉，合葬渭陵。
莽诏大夫扬雄作诔曰： 太阴之精，沙麓之灵，作合于汉，配元生成。
著其协于元城沙麓。
太阴精者，谓梦月也。
太后崩后十年，汉兵诛莽。
初，红阳侯立就国南阳，与诸刘结恩，立少子丹为中山太守。
世祖初起，丹降，为将军，战死。
上闵之，封丹子泓为武桓侯，至今。
司徒掾班彪曰：三代以来，《春秋》所记，王公国君，与其失世，稀不以女宠。
汉兴，后妃之家吕、霍、上官，几危国者数矣。
及王莽之兴，由孝元后历汉四世为天下母，飨国六十余载，群弟世权，更持国柄，五将十侯，卒成新都。
位号已移于天下，而元后卷卷犹握一玺，不欲以授莽，妇人之仁，悲夫！
translation: 
Wang Mang changed the system of wearing sable among the servants of the Mo family, so that all the servants wore yellow sable. He also changed the dates of Zhengshuo and Fula in the Han family.
The Queen Mother made her subordinates all wear sable. On New Year's Day and the twelfth lunar month of the Han Dynasty, she would sit and drink with the waiters around her to show that she did not forget the Han Dynasty.
When the Queen Mother was eighty-four years old, in February of the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Guichou died.
In March Yiyou, he was buried in Weiling together with Emperor Yuan.
Wang Mang issued an edict and asked the doctor Yang Xiong to write a sacrificial text, saying: The essence of Taiyin, the spirit of Shalu, the sky unites with Han, and the matching element is generated.
It shows that she is in harmony with Shalu of Yuancheng.
The essence of Taiyin means that the Queen Mother was born from a dream of the moon.
Ten years after the death of the Queen Mother, Han soldiers killed Wang Mang.
At the beginning, Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, returned to his fiefdom of Nanyang and formed a relationship with the Liu family's children. Wang Li's youngest son, Wang Dan, became the prefect of Zhongshan.
When Emperor Guangwu of Shizu just raised an army, Wang Dan surrendered and he became a general and died in battle.
Shizu took great pity on him and named his son Wang Hong the Marquis of Wuhuan. This title has been passed down to this day.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: Since the Three Dynasties, the reasons for the demise of princes and monarchs recorded in the "Spring and Autumn" have rarely been caused by favored women.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, the concubines' families, the Lu family, the Huo family, and the Shangguan family, nearly endangered the country several times.
The rise of Wang Mang was due to the fact that after Xiaoyuan, there were four generations of emperors in the Han Dynasty. Her mother respected the world. She reigned for more than sixty years. Her younger brothers came to power one after another and controlled the government. They granted a total of five generals and ten princes. Finally, Wang Mang, the new prince of the capital, realized his ambition.
The dynasties have changed, but the Queen of the Yuan Dynasty is still loyal and holds the imperial seal in her hand, and does not want to hand it over to Wang Mang. The kindness of a woman is really pitiful!
summary:
The historian Ban Biao noted that since the Three Dynasties, few dynasties fell due to favored women. The Wang family's rise came through four generations of empresses, with five generals and ten marquises, culminating in Wang Mang's usurpation. The Yuan Empress Dowager's loyalty, holding the imperial seal and refusing to surrender it, was truly pitiful.

