Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 16, 21]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
显宗孝明皇帝讳庄，光武第四子也。
母阴皇后。帝生而丰下，十岁能通《春秋》，光武奇之。
建武十五年封东海公，十七年进爵为王，十九年立为皇太子。
师事博士桓荣，学通《尚书》。
中元二年二月戊戌，即皇帝位，年三十。
尊皇后曰皇太后。
三月丁卯，葬光武皇帝于原陵。有司奏上尊庙曰世祖。
夏四月丙辰，诏曰： 予未小子，奉承圣业，夙夜震畏，不敢荒宁。
先帝受命中兴，德侔帝王，协和万邦，假于上下，怀柔百神，惠于鳏、寡。
朕承大运，继体守文，不知稼穑之艰难，惧有废失。
圣恩遗戒，顾重天下，以元元为首。
公卿百僚，将何以辅朕不逮？
translation: 
Emperor Xianzong Xiaoming Mingzhuang, the fourth son of Emperor Guangwu.
His mother was Queen Yin, and Emperor Ming was born with a square face. He could read the Spring and Autumn Annals at the age of ten. Guangwu was very surprised by his talent.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Duke of Donghai, promoted to king in the seventeenth year, and crown prince in the nineteenth year.
He became a disciple of Dr. Huan Rong and studied Shangshu.
On the fifth day of the second lunar month in the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he ascended the throne and was thirty years old.
Respect the queen as the empress dowager.
On the fifth day of the third lunar month, Emperor Guangwu was buried in the original mausoleum, and a priest named him the ancestor of the emperor.
On the 24th of April in the summer, Emperor Ming issued an edict saying: I am a young man who has inherited the great legacy of my ancestors. I am terrified day and night and dare not act casually.
The late emperor upheld the destiny of heaven and revitalized the Han Dynasty. His moral character was the same as that of the emperor. Offer sacrifices to mountains and rivers, bring peace to all gods, and bestow favors on widows and widowers.
I bear the great fortune of the country. Inheriting the political system, adhering to civility and morality, and not knowing the hardships of farming, I am only afraid of neglect and mistakes.
Our ancestors' wills warned us to cherish and respect the world and put the people first.
How will you, my ministers and your officials, assist me in my shortcomings?

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Xianzong Xiaoming Mingzhuang, the fourth son of Emperor Guangwu, was born with a square face and could read the Spring and Autumn Annals at age ten. He was granted the title of Duke of Donghai in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, promoted to king in the seventeenth year, and made crown prince in the nineteenth year. He studied Shangshu under Dr. Huan Rong. He ascended the throne at age thirty on the fifth day of the second lunar month in the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, honoring his mother as empress dowager and burying Emperor Guangwu in the original mausoleum.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
其赐天下男子爵，人二级；三老、孝悌、力田人三级；爵过公乘，得移与子若同产、同产子；及流人无名数欲自占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃粟，人十斛。
其施刑及郡国徒，在中元元年四月己卯赦前所犯而后捕系者，悉免其刑。
又边人遭乱为内郡人妻，在己卯赦前，一切遣还边，恣其所乐。
中二千石下至黄绶，贬秩赎论者，悉皆复秩还赎。
方今上无天子，下无方伯，若涉渊水而无舟楫。
夫万乘至重而壮者虑轻，实赖有德左右小子。
高密侯禹，元功之首；东平王苍，宽博有谋；并可以受六尺之托，临大节而不挠。其以禹为太傅，苍为骠骑将军。
大尉憙告谥南郊，司徒奉安梓宫，司空鲂将校复土。
其封憙为节乡侯，为安乡侯，鲂为杨邑侯。
translation: 
Today, men in the world are given the title of nobility, each with two levels; the three elders, filial brothers, and Li Tian each have three levels. If the title is above eight levels, they can be transferred to the son or the half-brother or the son of the half-brother; as well as homeless people without household registration who want to surrender themselves, each one will be given one level; widowers, widows, orphans, alone, and terminally ill people will each be given ten dendrobium of millet.
On April 11, the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, prisoners who were released from their shackles and those who committed crimes but were arrested later will be exempted from punishment.
Before the amnesty on April 11, civilians on the border who became the wives of people from the inner county due to violence would be sent back to the border, completely subject to their own wishes.
Those who were demoted from 2,000 shi down to 200 shi, and those who paid for atonement were restored to official rank and paid back the ransom.
Now that there is no emperor above and no local governor below, it is like crossing an abyss without a boat.
The throne is very important, but I am still young and have superficial thoughts. I really rely on the guidance and help of talented people.
Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, was the most accomplished, and Liu Cang, the King of Dongping, was magnanimous, knowledgeable and resourceful, and would not give in during important events. They could all be entrusted to assist the young master in governing the world. Deng Yu is now appointed as Taifu, and Liu Cang is appointed as General of Hussars.
Taiwei Zhao Xixin announced his posthumous title to the southern suburbs, Situ Li Fanjin was entrusted with the late Emperor Zi's palace, and Sikong Feng Li general overthrew the school.
Today, Zhao Xi is granted the title of Marquis of Jiexiang, Li Fanjin is granted the title of Marquis of Anxiang, and Feng Li is granted the title of Marquis of Yangyi.

summary:
summary line 1: Emperor Ming issued an edict expressing his fear of inheriting the great legacy and his desire to uphold his ancestors' will by putting the people first. He granted titles and rewards to various groups, including men of nobility, the three elders, filial brothers, and the poor. He also ordered the release of prisoners and the return of border civilians taken as wives. He appointed Deng Yu as Taifu and Liu Cang as General of Hussars, granting them titles. The Shaodang Qiang invaded Longxi, and after initial defeat, General Dou Gu was sent to attack them. Another edict emphasized not interfering with agricultural work and allowed criminals to atone for their sins. He criticized corrupt officials and unfair labor levies.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
永平元年春正月，帝率公卿已下朝于原陵，如元会仪。
夏五月，太傅邓禹薨。
戊寅，东海王彊薨，遣司空冯鲂持节视丧事，赐升龙旄头、銮辂，龙旂。
六月乙卯，葬东海恭王。
秋七月，捕虏将军马武等与烧当羌战，大破之。
募士卒戍陇右，赐钱人三万。
八月戊子，徙山阳王荆为广陵王，遣就国。
是岁，辽东太守祭肜使鲜卑击赤山乌桓，大破之，斩其渠帅。
越巂姑复夷叛，州郡讨平之。
二年春正月辛未，宗祀光武皇帝于明堂，帝及公卿列侯始服冠冕、衣裳、玉佩、絇屦以行事。
礼毕，登灵台。
使尚书令持节诏骠骑将军、三公曰： 今令月吉日，宗祀光武皇帝于明堂，以配五帝。
礼备法物，乐和八音，咏祉福，舞功德，班时令，敕群后。
translation: 
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Yongping, Emperor Ming led officials below the public minister to pay homage to the original mausoleum, just like the Yuan Hui ceremony.
In the fifth month of summer, Taifu Deng Yu passed away.
On the 22nd, Liu Qiang, the king of the East China Sea, passed away. He sent Sikong Fenggui to hold the talisman festival to watch the funeral, and rewarded him with a rising dragon head, a ruan, and a dragon flag.
On June 24, Prince Gong of Donghai was buried.
In the seventh month of autumn, the captured general Ma Wu and others fought against the Shaodang Qiang, and the Qiang were defeated.
Soldiers were recruited to guard Longyou, and each man was rewarded with 30,000 yuan.
On the fourth day of August, King Liu Jing of Shanyang was transferred to King Guangling and ordered to enter the fiefdom.
In this year, the governor of Liaodong sacrificed to Xianbei and attacked Wuhuan in Chishan. He defeated Wuhuan and beheaded his commander-in-chief.
Yuegu Fuyi rebelled, and the state and county troops attacked and put down the rebellion.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped in Mingtang. The Emperor Ming and his ministers and princes began to wear crowns, clothes, jade pendants, and colorful robes for the ceremony.
After the salute, he ascended to the mourning platform.
The minister was sent to hold the Fujie edict and ordered the Hussar General and Sangong to say: On this auspicious day, we will sacrifice Emperor Guangwu in the Mingtang to be worthy of the Five Emperors.
Preparing ritual objects, music and music, singing about blessings, dancing to show merit, announcing the seasons, and admonishing the queen.

summary:
summary line 2: In the first year of Yongping, Emperor Ming led officials to pay homage to the original mausoleum. Taifu Deng Yu and King Liu Qiang of Donghai passed away. The captured general Ma Wu defeated the Shaodang Qiang. Emperor Ming performed ceremonies in Mingtang, Piyong, and Lingtai, with various officials and foreign leaders attending. He held a pension ceremony, honoring the three elders and five brothers, and granted Huan Rong a title. He inspected the west, visiting Chang'an and offering sacrifices. Dou Lin, the captain who protected Qiang, died in prison. Yin Feng killed his wife and committed suicide.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
壬寅，车驾还宫。
冬十月壬辰晦，日有食之。三公免冠自劾。
制曰： 冠履勿劾。
灾异屡见，咎在朕躬，忧惧遑遑，未知其方。
将有司陈事，多所隐讳，使君上壅蔽，下有不畅乎？
昔卫有忠臣，灵公得守其位。今何以和穆阴阳，消伏灾谴？
刺史、太守详刑理冤，存恤鳏孤，勉思职焉。
十一月，楚王英谋反，废，国除，迁于泾县，所连及死徙者数千人。
是岁，齐王石薨。
十四年春三月甲戌，司徒虞延免，自杀。
夏四月丁巳，巨鹿太守南阳邢穆为司徒。
前楚王英自杀。
夏五月，封故广陵王荆子元寿为广陵侯。
初作寿陵。
十五年春二月庚子，东巡狩。
辛丑，幸偃师，诏亡命自殊死以下赎：死罪缣四十匹，右趾至髡钳城旦舂十匹，完城旦至司寇五匹；犯罪未发觉，诏书到日自告者，半入赎。
translation: 
On the 25th, Emperor Ming returned to Luoyang.
In winter, October, Renchen day, there is a solar eclipse. San Gong took off his hat and self-examined his mistakes.
Emperor Ming ordered: You officials should not impeach yourself.
Disasters happen frequently, and the fault lies with me. I feel anxious and uneasy, and I don’t know what to do.
Could it be that when the officials reported the situation, they kept taboos and concealed it, which blocked my ears and eyes, preventing the following things from being communicated smoothly?
In the past, Wei Linggong was unprincipled, but thanks to his loyal minister Kuang Fu, he was able to keep his position. How can we and Mu Yin Yang eliminate the disaster now?
The governor and prefect should carefully examine criminal cases, sort out unjust cases, express condolences and care for widowers, widows, orphans, and singles, and try their best to do their jobs well.
In November, King Liu Ying of Chu rebelled, deposed his throne, revoked the feudal state, and moved to Jing County. Thousands of people died in connection with this and were exiled.
This year, King Liu Shi of Qi passed away.
On the third day of March in the spring of the fourteenth year, Situ Yuyan was dismissed from his post and committed suicide.
On the 16th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Xing Mu from Nanyang was appointed as Situ, the prefect of Julu.
Former Chu King Liu Ying committed suicide.
In the fifth month of summer, Liu Jingzi and Liu Yuanshou, the deceased king of Guangling, were granted the title of Marquis of Guangling.
Construction of Shouling began.
On the fourth day of the second lunar month in the spring of the fifteenth year, Emperor Ming made an inspection tour eastward.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, I arrived in Yanshi. The edict ordered the desperadoes to atone for their crimes by beheading them: forty pieces of horses were tied up for the death penalty, ten pieces of horses were pounded once the feet were cut off at Kunqiang City, and five pieces of horses were pounded as soon as the city was completed. The crime was not discovered, and half of those who surrendered on the day of the edict were redeemed.

summary:
summary line 3: Emperor Ming issued edicts on agriculture, justice, and disaster relief. He appointed officials, made the noble Ma family queen, and granted titles and rewards. A comet appeared, and a solar eclipse occurred, prompting an edict for officials to criticize political affairs. He built the North Palace and various government offices. He plowed fields and prayed for good harvests. He dismissed and appointed officials, and dealt with rebellions and invasions by the Northern Xiongnu. He inspected various regions, worshiped at tombs, and rewarded officials. He established schools and set up teachers for the Five Classics. He repaired the Bian Canal and inspected rivers and canals. He dealt with the rebellion of King Liu Ying of Chu and the death of King Liu Shi of Qi.

Chunk 21: 
original: 
秋八月壬子，帝崩于东宫前殿。年四十八。
遗诏无起寝庙，藏主于光烈皇后更衣别室。
帝初作寿陵，制令流水而已，石椁广一丈二尺，长二丈五尺，无得起坟。
万年之后，扫地而祭，杅水脯糒而已。
过百日，唯四时设奠，置吏卒数人供给洒扫，勿开修道。
敢有所兴作者，以擅议宗庙法从事。
帝遵奉建武制度，无敢违者。
后宫之家，不得封侯与政。
馆陶公主为子求郎，不许，而赐钱千万。
谓群臣曰： 郎官上应列宿，出宰百里，苟非其人，则民受其殃，是以难之。 故吏称其官，民安其业，远近肃服，户口滋殖焉。
论曰：明帝善刑理，法令分明。日晏坐朝，幽枉必达。
translation: 
On the sixth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, the emperor passed away in the front hall of the East Palace at the age of forty-eight.
According to the imperial edict, there is no room for sleeping in the temple, and the main tablet of the Tibetan God is located in the dressing room of Queen Guanglie.
When Emperor Ming first built the Shouling Mausoleum, he ordered that as long as water could be dispersed, the stone coffin would be one foot two feet wide and two feet five feet long, and no graves would be raised.
After ten thousand years, it will be enough to sweep the ground and offer sacrifices to the people, such as harvesting water and poultry.
After a hundred days, as long as there are four seasons of worship, a few officials and soldiers will be provided to sweep and sweep, and no monastery will be opened.
Those who dare to do something creative will be judged guilty for being good at discussing the ancestral and temple laws.
The emperor followed the system of the Jianwu era and no one dared to disobey it.
The family of a foreign relative is not allowed to become a marquis and participate in politics.
Princess Guantao, a martial arts girl, asked for the official position of a man for her son. Emperor Ming did not agree, but gave her tens of millions of money.
He said to the ministers: The official is responsible for the stars in the sky and governs hundreds of miles. If the person is not chosen properly, the people will suffer, so it cannot be approved. Therefore, during the Ming Dynasty, officials were competent, the people were safe in their jobs, people from far and near were convinced, and the registered population increased a lot.
Historians commented: Emperor Ming was good at criminal proceedings and had clear laws. With Riyan in office, all unjust and unclear issues could be dealt with.

summary:
summary line 4: Emperor Ming continued to issue edicts on agriculture, justice, and disaster relief. He inspected eastward, plowed fields, and worshiped at Confucius's house. He granted titles and rewards, and sent generals to attack the Northern Xiongnu. He dealt with rebellions and invasions, and established the Protectorate of the Western Regions. He passed away in the front hall of the East Palace at age forty-eight, leaving instructions for a simple burial. Historians commented that Emperor Ming was good at criminal proceedings, had clear laws, and was competent in office, with no fluke or favoritism. However, some officials were dissatisfied with his lack of tolerance.

