Summary uses chunk [0]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩之先与周同姓，姓姬氏。
其后苗裔事晋，得封于韩原，曰韩武子。
武子后三世有韩厥é，从封姓为韩氏。
韩厥，晋景公之三年，晋司寇屠岸贾将作乱，诛灵公之贼赵盾。
赵盾已死矣，欲诛其子赵朔。
韩厥止贾，贾不听。
厥告赵朔令亡。
朔曰： 子必能不绝赵祀，死不恨矣。
韩厥许之。
及贾诛赵氏，厥称疾不出。
程婴、公孙杵臼之藏赵孤赵武也，厥知之。
景公十一年，厥与郄克将兵八百乘伐齐，败齐顷公于鞍，获逢丑父。
于是晋作六卿，而韩厥在一卿之位，号为献子。
晋景公十七年，病，卜大业之不遂者为祟。
韩厥称赵成季之功，今后无祀，以感景公。
景公问曰： 尚有世乎？
厥于是言赵武，而复与故赵氏田邑，续赵氏祀。
晋悼公之七年，韩献子老。
献子卒，子宣子代。
宣子徙居州。
晋平公十四年，吴季札使晋，曰： 晋国之政卒归于韩、魏、赵矣。
晋顷公十二年，韩宣子与赵、魏共分祁氏、羊舌氏十县。
晋定公十五年，宣子与赵简子侵伐范、中行氏。
宣子卒，子贞子代立。
贞子徙居平阳。
贞子卒，子简子代。
简子卒，子庄子代。
庄子卒，子康子代。
康子与赵襄子、魏桓子共败知伯，分其地，地益大，大于诸侯。
康子卒，子武子代。
武子二年，伐郑，杀其君幽公。
十六年，武子卒，子景侯立。
景侯虔元年，伐郑，取雍丘。
二年，郑败我负黍。
六年，与赵、魏俱得列为诸侯。
九年，郑围我阳翟。
景侯卒，子列侯取立。
列侯三年，聂政杀韩相侠累。
translation: 
The ancestor of Korea has the same surname as Emperor Zhou, Ji.
His descendants were entrusted to the Jin State and were sealed in Han Yuan, known as Han Wuzi.
After Han Wuzi, Han Jue was born in three generations, and the name of his fiefdom was Han Weishi.
When Han Jue was in Duke Jinggong's third year in Jin Dynasty, Tu'anjia, the chief minister of Jin State, was going to cause trouble, saying that he wanted to kill Zhao Dun, the traitor of Duke Linggong.
Zhao Dun was already dead, so he wanted to kill his son Zhao Shuo.
Han Jue tried to stop Tu'anjia, but Tu'anjia refused to listen.
Han Jue went to tell Zhao Shuo and let him escape.
Zhao Shuo said: "You must not cut off the descendants of the Zhao family, and there will be no regrets after my death."
Han Jue agreed to him.
When Tu'anjia killed the Zhao family, Han Jue claimed that he was ill and could not leave home.
Cheng Ying and Gongsun Jiu hid Zhao Wu, the orphan of the Zhao family, and Han Jue knew about it.
In the eleventh year of Jin Jinggong's reign, Han Jue and Chuke led a force of 800 chariots to conquer Qi. They defeated Qi Qinggong in An and captured Feng Chou's father.
From this time on, the Jin State established six ministers, and Han Jue ranked first, named Xianzi.
In the seventeenth year of Jin Jinggong's reign, Jinggong fell ill, and the divination results said that there were unfavorable people among Daye's descendants who were causing trouble.
Han Jue praised Zhao Shui's achievements and said that he had no one to continue the incense, so as to impress Jinggong.
Jinggong asked: "Does he have any descendants?"
Han Jue talked about Zhao Wu at that time, and Jinggong gave him the original Tianyi of Zhao family again, so that he could continue Zhao family's incense.
In the seventh year of Jin's reign, Han Xianzi grew old.
After Xianzi's death, his son Xuanzi inherited the title.
Xuanzi moved to Zhouyi.
In the fourteenth year of Jin Ping Gong's reign, Jizha of Wu State went to Jin State as an envoy. He said: The political power of Jin State will eventually belong to the three families of Han, Wei and Zhao.
In the twelfth year of Jin Qinggong's reign, Han Xuanzi, Zhao and Wei families divided themselves into ten counties of Qi and Yangyu.
In the fifteenth year of Duke Dinggong of Jin Dynasty, Han Xuanzi and Zhao Jianzi attacked Fan and Zhonghang families.
Xuanzi died, and his son Sadako inherited the title.
Sadako moved to Pingyang.
Han Zhenzi died and his son Jianzi succeeded to the throne.
Han Jianzi died and his son Zhuangzi succeeded to the throne.
Han Zhuangzi died and his son Kangzi succeeded him.
Han Kangzi, Zhao Xiangzi and Wei Huanzi defeated Zhibo and divided his territory. The territories of the three families were larger than those of other princes.
After Han Kangzi died, his son Wuzi succeeded to the throne.
In the second year of Wuzi's reign, he attacked the state of Zheng and killed their king Zheng Youhui.
In the sixteenth year, Han Wuzi died, and his son Jinghou came to the throne.
In the first year of Han Jinghou Qian's reign, he attacked Zheng State and occupied Yongqiu.
In the second year, Zheng Jun defeated Zhao Jun in Fushu.
In the sixth year of Jinghou, Han, Zhao and Wei were recognized as vassal states.
In the ninth year of Jinghou, Zheng Guo surrounded Yangzhai in South Korea.
Jinghou passed away. His son Liehou Han took the throne.
In the third year of Lihou's reign, Nie Zheng assassinated Xia Lei, the prime minister of South Korea.

summary:
summary line 0: The ancestor of Korea shared the surname Ji with Emperor Zhou. His descendants were enfeoffed in Jin State at Han Yuan, becoming known as Han Wuzi. After three generations, Han Jue emerged, and his fief was called Han Weishi. During Duke Jinggong’s third year in Jin, Tu'anjia sought to kill Zhao Shuo, son of the deceased Zhao Dun. Han Jue tried to stop him but failed, then warned Zhao Shuo, who begged him not to let the Zhao line end. Han Jue agreed. When Tu'anjia massacred the Zhao family, Han Jue feigned illness. Cheng Ying and Gongsun Jiu hid the orphan Zhao Wu, which Han Jue knew. In the eleventh year, Han Jue and Chuke led 800 chariots to defeat Qi, capturing Feng Chou’s father. Jin then established six ministers, with Han Jue first, titled Xianzi. In the seventeenth year, Jinggong fell ill; divination blamed Daye’s descendants. Han Jue praised Zhao Shui’s deeds, prompting Jinggong to restore Zhao Wu to the Zhao line. Han Xianzi grew old and died, succeeded by his son Xuanzi, who moved to Zhouyi. In the fourteenth year of Jin Ping Gong, Jizha of Wu predicted Jin’s power would go to Han, Wei, and Zhao. Later, Han Xuanzi, Zhao, and Wei divided Qi and Yangyu counties, then attacked Fan and Zhonghang families. Xuanzi died, succeeded by Sadako, who moved to Pingyang. Subsequent rulers included Jianzi, Zhuangzi, Kangzi, and Wuzi. In Wuzi’s second year, Korea attacked Zheng, killing King Zheng Youhui. After Wuzi died, Jinghou reigned, attacking Zheng and occupying Yongqiu. In the sixth year of Jinghou, Han, Zhao, and Wei were recognized as vassal states. Later rulers included Liehou, Wenhou, Aihou, Yihou, Zhaohou, King Xuanhui, King Xiang, King Li, King Huanhui, and finally King Han, who was captured by Qin in the ninth year of his reign, ending Korea. Sima Qian noted that Han Jue’s act of restoring Zhao Wu was a rare virtue, and the Han family’s rise to princely status over ten generations was deserved.

