Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩之先与周同姓，姓姬氏。
其后苗裔事晋，得封于韩原，曰韩武子。
武子后三世有韩厥é，从封姓为韩氏。
韩厥，晋景公之三年，晋司寇屠岸贾将作乱，诛灵公之贼赵盾。
赵盾已死矣，欲诛其子赵朔。
韩厥止贾，贾不听。
厥告赵朔令亡。
朔曰： 子必能不绝赵祀，死不恨矣。
韩厥许之。
及贾诛赵氏，厥称疾不出。
程婴、公孙杵臼之藏赵孤赵武也，厥知之。
景公十一年，厥与郄克将兵八百乘伐齐，败齐顷公于鞍，获逢丑父。
于是晋作六卿，而韩厥在一卿之位，号为献子。
晋景公十七年，病，卜大业之不遂者为祟。
韩厥称赵成季之功，今后无祀，以感景公。
景公问曰： 尚有世乎？
厥于是言赵武，而复与故赵氏田邑，续赵氏祀。
晋悼公之七年，韩献子老。
献子卒，子宣子代。
宣子徙居州。
晋平公十四年，吴季札使晋，曰： 晋国之政卒归于韩、魏、赵矣。
晋顷公十二年，韩宣子与赵、魏共分祁氏、羊舌氏十县。
晋定公十五年，宣子与赵简子侵伐范、中行氏。
宣子卒，子贞子代立。
贞子徙居平阳。
贞子卒，子简子代。
简子卒，子庄子代。
庄子卒，子康子代。
康子与赵襄子、魏桓子共败知伯，分其地，地益大，大于诸侯。
康子卒，子武子代。
武子二年，伐郑，杀其君幽公。
十六年，武子卒，子景侯立。
景侯虔元年，伐郑，取雍丘。
二年，郑败我负黍。
六年，与赵、魏俱得列为诸侯。
九年，郑围我阳翟。
景侯卒，子列侯取立。
列侯三年，聂政杀韩相侠累。
translation: 
The ancestor of Korea has the same surname as Emperor Zhou, Ji.
His descendants were entrusted to the Jin State and were sealed in Han Yuan, known as Han Wuzi.
After Han Wuzi, Han Jue was born in three generations, and the name of his fiefdom was Han Weishi.
When Han Jue was in Duke Jinggong's third year in Jin Dynasty, Tu'anjia, the chief minister of Jin State, was going to cause trouble, saying that he wanted to kill Zhao Dun, the traitor of Duke Linggong.
Zhao Dun was already dead, so he wanted to kill his son Zhao Shuo.
Han Jue tried to stop Tu'anjia, but Tu'anjia refused to listen.
Han Jue went to tell Zhao Shuo and let him escape.
Zhao Shuo said: "You must not cut off the descendants of the Zhao family, and there will be no regrets after my death."
Han Jue agreed to him.
When Tu'anjia killed the Zhao family, Han Jue claimed that he was ill and could not leave home.
Cheng Ying and Gongsun Jiu hid Zhao Wu, the orphan of the Zhao family, and Han Jue knew about it.
In the eleventh year of Jin Jinggong's reign, Han Jue and Chuke led a force of 800 chariots to conquer Qi. They defeated Qi Qinggong in An and captured Feng Chou's father.
From this time on, the Jin State established six ministers, and Han Jue ranked first, named Xianzi.
In the seventeenth year of Jin Jinggong's reign, Jinggong fell ill, and the divination results said that there were unfavorable people among Daye's descendants who were causing trouble.
Han Jue praised Zhao Shui's achievements and said that he had no one to continue the incense, so as to impress Jinggong.
Jinggong asked: "Does he have any descendants?"
Han Jue talked about Zhao Wu at that time, and Jinggong gave him the original Tianyi of Zhao family again, so that he could continue Zhao family's incense.
In the seventh year of Jin's reign, Han Xianzi grew old.
After Xianzi's death, his son Xuanzi inherited the title.
Xuanzi moved to Zhouyi.
In the fourteenth year of Jin Ping Gong's reign, Jizha of Wu State went to Jin State as an envoy. He said: The political power of Jin State will eventually belong to the three families of Han, Wei and Zhao.
In the twelfth year of Jin Qinggong's reign, Han Xuanzi, Zhao and Wei families divided themselves into ten counties of Qi and Yangyu.
In the fifteenth year of Duke Dinggong of Jin Dynasty, Han Xuanzi and Zhao Jianzi attacked Fan and Zhonghang families.
Xuanzi died, and his son Sadako inherited the title.
Sadako moved to Pingyang.
Han Zhenzi died and his son Jianzi succeeded to the throne.
Han Jianzi died and his son Zhuangzi succeeded to the throne.
Han Zhuangzi died and his son Kangzi succeeded him.
Han Kangzi, Zhao Xiangzi and Wei Huanzi defeated Zhibo and divided his territory. The territories of the three families were larger than those of other princes.
After Han Kangzi died, his son Wuzi succeeded to the throne.
In the second year of Wuzi's reign, he attacked the state of Zheng and killed their king Zheng Youhui.
In the sixteenth year, Han Wuzi died, and his son Jinghou came to the throne.
In the first year of Han Jinghou Qian's reign, he attacked Zheng State and occupied Yongqiu.
In the second year, Zheng Jun defeated Zhao Jun in Fushu.
In the sixth year of Jinghou, Han, Zhao and Wei were recognized as vassal states.
In the ninth year of Jinghou, Zheng Guo surrounded Yangzhai in South Korea.
Jinghou passed away. His son Liehou Han took the throne.
In the third year of Lihou's reign, Nie Zheng assassinated Xia Lei, the prime minister of South Korea.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
九年，秦伐我宜阳，取六邑。
十三年，列侯卒，子文侯立。
是岁魏文侯卒。
文侯二年，伐郑，取阳城。
伐宋，到彭城，执宋君。
七年，伐齐，至桑丘。
郑反晋。
九年，伐齐，至灵丘。
十年，文侯卒，子哀侯立。
哀侯元年，与赵、魏分晋国。
二年，灭郑，因徙都郑。
六年，韩严弑其君哀侯。而子懿侯立。
懿侯二年，魏败我马陵。
五年，与魏惠王会宅阳。
九年，魏败我浍。
十二年，懿侯卒，子昭侯立。
昭侯元年，秦败我西山。
二年，宋取我黄池。
魏取朱。
六年，伐东周，取陵观、邢丘。
八年，申不害相韩，修术行道，国内以治，诸侯不来侵伐。
十年，韩姬弑其君悼公。
十一年，昭侯如秦。
二十二年，申不害死。
二十四年，秦来拔我宜阳。
二十五年，旱，作高门。
屈宜臼曰： 昭侯不出此门。
何也？
不时。
吾所谓时者，非时日也，人固有利不利时。
昭侯尝利矣，不作高门。
往年秦拔宜阳，今年旱，昭侯不以此时恤民之急，而顾益奢，此谓 时绌举赢 。
二十六年，高门成，昭侯卒，果不出此门。
子宣惠王立。
宣惠王五年，张仪相秦。
八年，魏败我将韩举。
十一年，君号为王。
与赵会区鼠。
十四年，秦伐败我鄢。
十六年，秦败我修鱼，虏得韩将、申差于浊泽。
韩氏急，公仲谓韩王曰： 与国非可恃也。
translation: 
In the ninth year, Qin attacked Yiyang in South Korea and occupied Liuyi.
In the thirteenth year, Liehou died and his son Wenhou came to the throne.
This year Wei Wenhou died.
In the second year of Han Wenhou's reign, South Korea attacked Zheng Guo and occupied Yangcheng.
He attacked the Song Dynasty, reached Pengcheng, and captured the king of Song Dynasty.
In the seventh year, he attacked Qi and reached Sanqiu.
The state of Zheng rebelled against the state of Jin.
In the ninth year, South Korea attacked Qi and reached Lingqiu.
Ten years later, Han Wenhou died, and his son Aihou came to the throne.
In the first year of Han Aihou, Han, the three families of Zhao and Wei divided the Kingdom of Jin.
In the second year, South Korea destroyed the Zheng State and moved the capital to Xinzheng.
In the sixth year of Aihou, Han Yan killed his king Aihou, and Aihou's son Yihou came to the throne.
In the second year of Yihou's reign, the Wei army defeated the Han army in Maling.
In the fifth year, the Marquis of Han and King Hui of Wei met in Zhaiyang.
In the ninth year, the Wei army defeated the Han army at Huishui.
In the twelfth year, Yihou died and his son Zhaohou came to the throne.
In the first year of Han Zhaohou, the Qin army defeated the Han army in Xishan.
In the second year, the Song Dynasty captured Huangchi in South Korea.
Wei State captured Zhuyi.
In the sixth year, the Han army conquered the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and captured Lingguan and Xingqiu.
In the eighth year of Zhaohou, Shen Buhe was appointed as the prime minister of South Korea. He used the monarch's power to control the ministers and implemented the Legalist way of governing the country. The country was stabilized and the princes did not dare to invade.
In the tenth year of Zhaohou, Han Ji killed his monarch, Duke Ai.
In the eleventh year, Zhaohou went to Qin.
In the twenty-second year, Shen Buhai passed away.
In the twenty-fourth year, the Qin army captured Yiyang in South Korea.
In the twenty-fifth year of Zhaohou's reign, a drought occurred and a tall city gate was built.
Qu Yijiu said: Zhaohou cannot get out of this gate.
Why?
Because it is inappropriate.
When I talk about time, I don’t mean time. People have good or bad times.
Zhaohou once had success, but he did not build Gaomen.
Last year Qin captured Yiyang, and this year there was a drought. Zhaohou did not sympathize with the people's distress at this time, but instead became more luxurious. This is called doing extravagant things in difficult times.
In the twenty-sixth year, Gaomen was completed and Zhaohou also passed away. As expected, he could not get out of the city gate.
His son King Xuanhui ascended the throne.
In the fifth year of King Xuanhui's reign, Zhang Yi was appointed prime minister of Qin.
In eight years, the Wei army defeated the Korean general Han Ju.
In the eleventh year, South Korea changed the title of King to King.
The king of Han and the king of Zhao met in District Rat.
In the fourteenth year, the Qin army attacked and defeated the Korean army in Yanling.
In the 16th year of King Xuanhui's reign, the Qin army defeated the Korean army in Xiuyu and captured the Korean generals and Shen Chai in Zhuoze.
South Korea was anxious. Prime Minister Gongzhong said to the King of Han: Allies are unreliable.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今秦之欲伐楚久矣，王不如因张仪为和于秦，赂以一名都，具甲，与之南伐楚，此以一易二之计也。 韩王曰： 善。
乃警公仲之行，将西购于秦。
楚王闻之大恐，召陈轸告之。
陈轸曰： 秦之欲伐楚久矣，今又得韩之名都一而具甲，秦韩并兵而伐楚，此秦所祷祀而求也。今已得之矣，楚国必伐矣。
王听臣为之警四境之内，起师言救韩，命战车满道路，发信臣，多其车，重其币，使信王之救己也。
纵韩不能听我，韩必德王也，必不为雁行以来，是秦韩不和也，兵虽至，楚不大病也。
为能听我绝和于秦，秦必大怒，以厚怨韩。韩之南交楚，必轻秦；轻秦，其应秦必不敬：是因秦、韩之兵而免楚国之患也。 楚王曰： 善。
乃警四境之内，兴师言救韩。命战车满道路，发信臣，多其车，重其币。
谓韩王曰： 不谷国虽小，已悉发之矣。
愿大国遂肆志于秦，不谷将以楚殉韩。
韩王闻之大说，乃止公仲之行。
公仲曰： 不可。夫以实伐我者秦也，以虚名救我者楚也。
王恃楚之虚名，而轻绝强秦之敌，王必为天下大笑。
且楚韩非兄弟之国也，又非素约而谋伐秦也。
已有伐形，因发兵言救韩，此必陈轸之谋也。
且王已使人报于秦矣，今不行，是欺秦也。
夫轻欺强秦而信楚之谋臣，恐王必悔之。
韩王不听，遂绝于秦。
秦因大怒，益甲伐韩，大战，楚救不至韩。
十九年，大破我岸门。
太子仓质于秦以和。
二十一年，与秦共攻楚，败楚将屈丐，斩首八万于丹阳。
是岁，宣惠王卒，太子仓立，是为襄王。
襄王四年，与秦武王会临晋。
其秋，秦使甘茂攻我宜阳。
五年，秦拔我宜阳，斩首六万。
秦武王卒。
六年，秦复与我武遂。
九年，秦复取我武遂。
十年，太子婴朝秦而归。
十一年，秦伐我，取穰。
与秦伐楚，败楚将唐眛。
十二年，太子婴死。
公子咎、公子虮虱争为太子。
translation: 
Now Qin has wanted to conquer Chu for a long time. It is better for the king to ask for peace from the king of Qin through Zhang Yi, give it a famous city, prepare armor and weapons, and go south to conquer Chu with the Qin army. This is a strategy of exchanging one loss for two gains. King Han said: OK.
So he was on alert for Gongzhong's actions, and he wanted to go west to make peace with Qin.
The King of Chu was very frightened when he heard about it and summoned Chen Zhen to tell him the situation.
Chen Zhen said: Qin has wanted to attack Chu for a long time. Now it has obtained a famous city in South Korea, and has also prepared armor and weapons. Qin and Han have joined forces to attack Chu. This is what Qin has dreamed of praying for and offering sacrifices to. Now that it has been obtained, Chu must be invaded.
Listening to my advice, the king first strengthened the vigilance throughout the country, sent troops to announce the rescue of South Korea, and filled the roads with chariots. Then he sent envoys, equipped with more vehicles, and brought generous gifts to make South Korea believe that the king was saving them.
Even if the King of Han does not listen to our opinions, South Korea will definitely be grateful for the king's kindness and will not line up to attack Chu. In this way, Qin and Han will be at odds. Even if the army arrives, it will not become a major trouble for Chu.
If South Korea listens to our advice and stops asking for peace from Qin, Qin will be furious and its resentment towards South Korea will deepen; if South Korea goes to the south to make friends with Chu, it will definitely treat Qin lightly, treat Qin lightly, and treat Qin disrespectfully. This is to use the contradiction between the Qin and Han armies to avoid Chu's troubles. King Chu said: Very good!
So they strengthened their vigilance across the country, sent troops to rescue South Korea, and filled the roads with chariots. Then they sent envoys, equipped with many vehicles, and asked him to bring generous gifts to South Korea.
The Chu envoy said to the King of Han: Although our country is small, we have already sent out all our troops.
I hope that your country can fight Qin as you wish, and that our king will let the Chu army fight to the death for South Korea.
The King of Han was very happy after hearing this and stopped Gong Zhong's trip to Qin to negotiate peace.
Gong Zhong said: This cannot be done. It is Qin that invades us with its strength, and it is Chu that saves us in vain.
The king wants to rely on the false reputation of the Chu State and easily breaks off relations with the powerful enemy Qin. The king will definitely be laughed at by the world.
Moreover, Chu and Han were not brotherly countries, nor did they have a long-standing alliance to conspire against Qin.
We already had signs of uniting with Qin to attack Chu, and the state of Chu announced that it would send troops to rescue Han. This must be Chen Zhen's plan.
Besides, your Majesty has already sent people to inform the Qin State of our plans, and now he has decided not to go. This is deceiving the Qin State.
If you easily deceive the powerful Qin and listen to Chu's advisors, I'm afraid the king will definitely regret it.
The king of Han did not listen to the advice and finally broke off diplomatic relations with Qin.
Qin was furious and increased its troops to attack South Korea. The two countries fought a war, but Chu's reinforcements never came to South Korea.
In the 19th year, the Qin army defeated the Korean army at Anmen.
South Korea had no choice but to send Taizicang as a hostage to sue Qin for peace.
In the 21st year of King Xuanhui's reign, South Korea and Qin attacked Chu, defeated Chu general Qu Gai, and killed 80,000 Chu troops in Danyang.
In this year, King Xuanhui passed away and Prince Cang came to the throne. This was King Han Xiang.
In the fourth year of King Xiang, King Xiang of Han and King Wu of Qin met in Linjin.
In the autumn of this year, Qin sent Gan Mao to attack Yiyang in South Korea.
In five years, Qin captured Yiyang and killed 60,000 Korean troops.
In the same year, King Wu of Qin passed away.
Six years later, Qin returned Wu Sui to South Korea.
In the ninth year, Qin once again captured Wu Sui in South Korea.
Ten years later, Prince Ying of South Korea returned to his country after meeting Queen Qin.
In the eleventh year, the Qin army attacked Han and occupied Rangyi.
South Korea and Qin attacked Chu and defeated Chu general Tang Mei.
In the twelfth year of King Xiang's reign, the prince passed away.
Young Master Jiu and Young Master Xi Liao competed to be the crown prince.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
时虮虱质于楚。
苏代谓韩咎曰： 虮虱亡在楚，楚王欲内之甚。
今楚兵十余万在方城之外，公何不令楚王筑万室之都雍氏之旁，韩必起兵以救之，公必将矣。
公因以韩楚之兵奉虮虱而内之，其听公必矣，必以楚韩封公也。
韩咎从其计。
楚围雍氏，韩求救于秦。
秦未为发，使公孙昧入韩。
公仲曰： 子以秦为且救韩乎？
对曰： 秦王之言曰 请道南郑、蓝田，出兵于楚以待公 。
殆不合矣。
公仲曰： 子以为果乎？
对曰： 秦王必祖张仪之故智。
楚威王攻梁也，张仪谓秦王曰： 与楚攻魏，魏折而入于楚，韩固其与国也，是秦孤也。
不如出兵以到之，魏楚大战，秦取西河之外以归。
今其状阳言与韩，其实阴善楚。
公待秦而到，必轻与楚战。
楚阴得秦之不用也，必易与公相支也。
公战而胜楚，遂与公乘楚，施三川而归。
公战不胜楚，楚塞三川守之，公不能救也。
窃为公患之。
司马庚三反于郢，甘茂与昭鱼遇于商于，其言收玺，实类有约也。
公仲恐，曰： 然则奈何？
曰： 公必先韩而后秦，先身而后张仪。
公不如亟以国合于齐楚，齐楚必委国于公。
公之所恶者张仪也，其实犹不无秦也。
于是楚解雍氏围。
苏代又谓秦太后弟芈戎曰： 公叔、伯婴恐秦楚之内虮虱也，公何不为韩求质子于楚？
楚王听入质子于韩，则公叔、伯婴知秦楚之不以虮虱为事，必以韩合于秦楚。
秦楚挟韩以窘魏，魏氏不敢合于齐，是齐孤也。
公又为秦求质子于楚，楚不听，怨结于韩。
韩挟齐魏以围楚，楚必重公。
公挟秦楚之重以积德于韩，公叔、伯婴必以国待公。
于是虮虱竟不得归韩。
韩立咎为太子。
translation: 
At that time, Ji Liao was a hostage in Chu State.
Su said to Han Jiu: "He is in Chu State, and the King of Chu wants to send him back to his country."
Now hundreds of thousands of Chu troops are stationed in the north of Fangcheng Mountain. Why don't you let Chu build a city of 10,000 households next to Yongshi City? In this way, the King of Han will definitely send troops to rescue Yongshi, and you will definitely serve as a general.
In this way, you can use the armies of Han and Chu to support Xi Liao and take him back to South Korea. In the future, he will definitely listen to you and he will definitely seal the Chu-Han border to you.
Han Jiu followed his plan.
The Chu army surrounded the Yong family, and South Korea asked Qin for help.
Qin did not send troops, but sent Gongsun Mei to South Korea.
Gongzhong said to Gongsun Mei: Do you think Qin will rescue South Korea?
Gongsun Mei replied: The King of Qin said this: We will take the route of Nanzheng and Lantian and send troops to the Chu State to wait for your army.
I'm afraid we can't meet up.
Gongzhong said: Do you think this is really the case?
Gongsun Mei replied: The King of Qin will definitely follow Zhang Yi's original strategy.
When King Wei of Chu attacked Wei, Zhang Yi said to King Qin: If Qin and Chu attack Wei, if Wei fails, it will fall to Chu. South Korea is its ally. In this way, Qin will be isolated.
We might as well send troops to confuse them and let Wei and Chu fight, so that the Qin army can occupy the land beyond Xihe and then come back.
Now it seems that King Qin is allying with South Korea on the surface, but in fact he is secretly on good terms with Chu.
If you wait for the Qin army to arrive, you will surely fight against the Chu army rashly.
The Chu State has secretly learned that the Qin Army will not aid South Korea, and it will definitely be easy for them to confront you.
If you defeat the state of Chu, the state of Qin will join you in overpowering the state of Chu, and then go back to the Sanchuan area to show off your power.
If you cannot defeat the Chu State in this battle, and the Chu State blocks the defense of Sanchuan, you will not be able to get help.
I'm privately worried about you.
Sima Geng, a native of Qin, traveled to and from the capital of Ying three times. Qin Prime Minister Gan Mao and Chu Prime Minister Zhao Yu met in Shangyu. On the surface, they threatened to withdraw their seal of attack on the Han and Chu troops. In fact, the two sides seemed to have some secret agreement.
Gongzhong said in horror: "Then what should we do?"
Gongsun Mei said: You must first consider South Korea itself, and then consider whether Qin will come to rescue. First think of ways to save yourself, and then consider how to deal with Zhang Yi's scheme.
You might as well unite South Korea with Qi and Chu as soon as possible. Qi and Chu will definitely entrust you with state affairs.
What you hate is Zhang Yi's deceitful tactics, but you still can't alienate Qin!
So Chu State lifted the siege of Yong family.
Su Dai then said to Mi Rong, the brother of the Empress Dowager Qin: Uncle Boying is afraid that Qin will send the lice back to Korea. Why don't you go to Chu to ask for the release of the proton lice for South Korea?
If the Chu State does not agree to return the hostage to South Korea, then Uncle Boying will know that Qin and Chu do not pay attention to the matter of lice, and South Korea will definitely unite with Qin and Chu.
Qin and Chu could rely on South Korea to embarrass Wei, and Wei would not dare to unite with Qi. In this way, Qi would be isolated.
Then you ask Chu to send the protons to Qin on behalf of Qin. If Chu does not agree, it will become enmity with South Korea.
South Korea will rely on the strength of Qi and Wei to besiege Chu. Chu will definitely respect you.
You rely on the respect of Qin and Chu to show kindness to South Korea. Uncle Boying will definitely use the entire country to serve you.
As a result, the lice finally failed to return to Korea.
South Korea established Gongzi Jiu as the crown prince.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
齐、魏王来。
十四年，与齐、魏王共击秦，至函谷而军焉。
十六年，秦与我河外及武遂。
襄王卒，太子咎立，是为厘王。
厘王三年，使公孙喜率周、魏攻秦。
秦败我二十四万，虏喜伊阙。
五年，秦拔我宛。
六年，与秦武遂地二百里。
十年，秦败我师于夏山。
十二年，与秦昭王会西周而佐秦攻齐。
齐败，愍王出亡。十四年，与秦会两周间。
二十一年，使暴䳒救魏，为秦所败，䳒走开封。
二十三年，赵、魏攻我华阳。
韩告急于秦，秦不救。
韩相国谓陈筮曰： 事急，愿公虽病，为一宿之行。
陈筮见穰侯。
穰侯曰： 事急乎？
故使公来。
陈筮曰： 未急也。
穰侯怒曰： 是可以为公之主使乎？
夫冠盖相望，告敝邑甚急，公来言未急，何也？
陈筮曰： 彼韩急则将变而佗从；以未急，故复来耳。
穰侯曰： 公无见王，请今发兵救韩。
八日而至，败赵、魏于华阳之下。
是岁，厘王卒，子桓惠王立。
桓惠王元年，伐燕。
九年，秦拔我陉，城汾旁。
十年，秦击我于太行，我上党郡守以上党郡降赵。
十四年，秦拔赵上党，杀马服子卒四十余万于长平。
十七年，秦拔我阳城、负黍。
二十二年，秦昭王卒。
二十四年，秦拔我城皋、荥阳。
二十六年，秦悉拔我上党。
二十九年，秦拔我十三城。
三十四年，桓惠王卒，子王安立。
王安五年，秦攻韩，韩急，使韩非使秦，秦留非，因杀之。
九年，秦虏王安，尽入其地，为颍川郡。
韩遂亡。
translation: 
The kings of Qi and Wei came to Korea.
In the fourteenth year of King Xiang's reign, South Korea, together with Qi and Wei, attacked Qin and stationed troops at Hangu Pass.
In the sixteenth year, Qin returned the land beyond the river and Wu Sui to South Korea.
In the same year, King Xiang died and Prince Jiu came to the throne. This was King Li.
In the third year of King Li's reign, he sent Gongsun happy to lead the armies of Zhou and Wei to attack Qin.
Qin defeated Han's army of 240,000 and captured Gongsun happy in Yique.
In five years, the Qin army captured Wancheng in South Korea.
In six years, South Korea gave Qin two hundred miles of land in the Wusui belt.
In ten years, the Qin army defeated the Han army in Xiashan.
In the twelfth year, King Han Li and King Zhao of Qin met in the capital of the Western Zhou Dynasty and helped Qin attack Qi.
Qi was defeated, and the kings of Qi Min, Han and Qin met between the two kingdoms.
In the 21st year, Bao Yuan was sent to rescue Wei State, but he was defeated by the Qin army and Bao Yuan fled to Kaifeng.
In the 23rd year of King Li, Zhao and Wei attacked Huayang in South Korea.
South Korea asked Qin for help, but Qin did not come to rescue.
The Prime Minister of South Korea said to Chen Yushì: The situation is urgent. Although you are sick, I still hope that you will go to Qin overnight.
Chen Zhen went to Qinxian to meet with Ranghou Wei Ran.
Ranghou said: Is the matter urgent?
That’s why I sent you.
Chen Zhen said: Ha, it’s not very urgent.
Ranghou said angrily: "If this is the case, can your monarch still send you as an envoy?"
Your envoys come and go, all coming to ask us for help, but you come and say you are not in a hurry. Why?
Chen Zhen said: If South Korea is really in crisis, it will have to change its policies and follow other countries. Because it has not yet reached the critical moment, so I am here again.
Marquis Rang said: "You don't have to go to see King Qin. Now I will send troops to rescue South Korea immediately."
Eight days later, the Qin army arrived and defeated the Zhao army and the Wei army at the foot of Huayang Mountain.
In this year, King Li died and his son King Huanhui came to the throne.
In the first year of King Huanhui, the Han army attacked Yan.
In the ninth year, the Qin army captured Xingcheng in South Korea and built a city beside the Fen River.
In the tenth year, the Qin army attacked the Korean army in the Taihang Mountains, and the Shangdang County governor of South Korea surrendered to Zhao.
In the fourteenth year, the state of Qin captured Shangdang of the state of Zhao. In Changping, he killed 400,000 soldiers led by Zhao Kuo, the son of Ma Fujun.
In the seventeenth year, the Qin army captured Yangcheng and negative millet in South Korea.
In the twenty-second year, King Zhao of Qin passed away.
In the twenty-fourth year, the Qin army captured Chenggao and Xingyang in South Korea.
In the twenty-sixth year, the Qin army captured all the Shangdang area in South Korea.
In the twenty-ninth year, the Qin army captured thirteen cities in South Korea.
In the thirty-fourth year, King Huan Hui died, and his son Han Wangan came to the throne.
In the fifth year of King Han's reign, Qin attacked South Korea. South Korea was in a critical situation and sent Han Fei as envoy to Qin. Qin detained Han Fei and later killed him.
In the ninth year, the Qin army captured Han Wangan, and all Korean territory belonged to the Qin State and was established as Yingchuan County.
Korea finally perished.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
太史公曰：韩厥之感晋景公，绍赵孤之子武，以成程婴、公孙杵臼之义，此天下之阴德也。
韩氏之功，于晋未睹其大者也。然与赵、魏终为诸侯十余世，宜乎哉！
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Han Jue moved Jin Jinggong and let Zhao Wu, the orphan of the Zhao family, inherit the title of the Zhao family, thus fulfilling the righteousness of Cheng Ying and Gongsun Chujiu. This is a rare virtue in the world.
The Han family did not see any great achievements in the Jin Dynasty. However, like the Zhao family and the Wei family, they finally became princes for more than ten generations. This is what they deserve!


