Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 6, 7, 11, 15]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
萧子恪，字景冲，兰陵人，齐豫章文献王嶷第二子也。
永明中，以王子封南康县侯。
年十二，和从兄司徒竟陵王《高松赋》，卫军王俭见而奇之。
初为宁朔将军、淮陵太守，建武中，迁辅国将军、吴郡太守。
大司马王敬则于会稽举兵反，以奉子恪为名，明帝悉召子恪兄弟亲从七十余人入西省，至夜当害之。
会子恪弃郡奔归，是日亦至，明帝乃止，以子恪为太子中庶子。
东昏即位，迁秘书监，领右军将军，俄为侍中。
中兴二年，迁辅国谘议参军。
天监元年，降爵为子，除散骑常侍，领步兵校尉，以疾不拜，徙为光禄大夫，俄为司徒左长史。
子恪与弟子范等，尝因事入谢，高祖在文德殿引见之，从容谓曰： 我欲与卿兄弟有言。
夫天下之宝，本是公器，非可力得。
苟无期运，虽有项籍之力，终亦败亡。
所以班彪《王命论》云： 所求不过一金，然终转死沟壑 。
translation: 
Xiao Zike, whose courtesy name was Jingchong, was the second son of Lanlingru, Xiao Yi, the king of literature in Yuzhang of the Qi Dynasty.
During the Yongming Dynasty, he was named Marquis of Nankang County because he was a prince.
When he was twelve years old, he wrote "Gaosong Fu" with his cousin King Situ Jingling. The guard Gongjian saw him and admired him very much.
He first served as General Ningshuo and Grand Administrator Jinduo. During the Jiangan period, he moved to General Fu Guo and Grand Administrator Wujun.
Grand Sima Wang Jingze raised troops in Kuaiji to rebel. In the name of supporting Zijian, Dandantong summoned more than 70 Wang Tan brothers to the Western Province and planned to kill them at night.
Shizi abandoned Wu County and fled back. He rushed to the capital that day, so Emperor Ming did not harm them. Appointed Wang Yan as the crown prince's concubine.
Donghunhou ascended the throne, moved to the post of secretary supervisor, led the right army general, and soon became the minister.
In the second year of Zhongxing Dynasty, he moved to the post of auxiliary to consult the country and join the army.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was demoted to viscount, appointed as a regular attendant of the cavalry, and a captain of the infantry. However, he was not appointed because of illness. He was moved to the post of Guanglu doctor, and soon he was appointed as the chief historian of Situ Zuo.
Fan and others, disciples of Xiao Zike, once came to court to express gratitude for their affairs. Emperor Gaozu received them in the Hall of Wende and calmly said to them: I want to say a few words to you brothers.
The most precious thing in the world is fame and fortune, but it cannot be obtained by force.
If there is no luck, even with Xiang Ji's strength, he will eventually fail.
Therefore, Mo Ai's "The Theory of King's Destiny" says: What he sought was just a gold, but he ended up tossing and dying in a ravine.

summary:
summary line 0: Xiao Zike, courtesy name Jingchong, was the second son of Xiao Yi, King Wen of Yuzhang in the Qi Dynasty. During the Yongming era, he was named Marquis of Nankang County. At age twelve, he co-wrote "Gaosong Fu" with his cousin, King Jingling of Situ, earning admiration from the guard Gongjian. He began his career as General Ningshuo and Grand Administrator of Jinduo, later moving to General Fuguo and Grand Administrator of Wujun during the Jiangan period. When Grand Sima Wang Jingze rebelled in Kuaiji, Zike fled to the capital, avoiding harm from Emperor Ming, who appointed him as the crown prince's concubine. Under Donghunhou, he became Secretary Supervisor, Right Army General, and Minister. In the second year of Zhongxing, he served as Auxiliary to Consult the Country. In the first year of Tianjian, he was demoted to Viscount, appointed as Regular Attendant of the Cavalry and Infantry Captain, but declined due to illness. He later held posts including Guanglu Doctor and Chief Historian of Situ Zuo.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
卿不应不读此书。
宋孝武为性猜忌，兄弟粗有令名者，无不因事鸩毒，所遗唯有景和。
至于朝臣之中，或疑有天命而致害者，枉滥相继，然而或疑有天命而不能害者，或不知有天命而不疑者，于时虽疑卿祖，而无如之何。
此是疑而不得。
又有不疑者，如宋明帝本为庸常被免，岂疑而得全？
又复我于时已年二岁，彼岂知我应有今日？
当知有天命者，非人所害，害亦不能得。
我初平建康城，朝廷内外皆劝我云： 时代革异，物心须一，宜行处分。
我于时依此而行，谁谓不可！
我政言江左以来，代谢必相诛戮，此是伤于和气，所以国祚例不灵长。
所谓 殷鉴不远，在夏后之世。
此是一义。
二者，齐梁虽曰革代，义异往时。
translation: 
You should not not read this book.
Emperor Xiaowu of the Song Dynasty was jealous by nature, and all of his brothers with a slight reputation were poisoned to death for no apparent reason. The only one who survived was Liu Ziye.
As for the ministers of the imperial court, they may be killed on suspicion of destiny, which is a mistake, and innocent victims follow one after another. However, there are also those who doubt a person's destiny but cannot kill him, or who do not know that a person has a destiny but do not doubt him. At that time, although he doubted your grandfather, he did not know how to treat him.
This is when people are suspected but not killed.
There are also people who are not suspected. For example, Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty was exempted because of his mediocrity and inaction, but he was saved because he was suspected.
Then again, I was already two years old at that time, how could he know that I should be where I am today.
You should know that people with destiny cannot be harmed by humans, and even if you want to harm them, you cannot succeed.
When I first pacified Jiankang City, people inside and outside the court advised me: Times have changed, people must be united, and punishments must be implemented.
I acted according to this theory at that time, who would say it’s not possible!
I was saying that since the founding of Jiangzuo, if we want to change dynasties, we must kill each other. This is damaging to harmony, so the national destiny cannot be broad and long-lasting as usual.
The so-called lessons of Xia's demise are right in front of us, and the descendants of Yin should take them as a warning.
This is the first meaning.
Furthermore, although the Qi Dynasty and the Liang Dynasty were revolutionary dynasties, their principles were different from previous revolutionary dynasties.

summary:
summary line 1: Emperor Gaozu, in a conversation with Zike's disciples, emphasized that fame and fortune cannot be forced, citing historical examples like Xiang Ji's failure. He contrasted the jealous nature of Emperor Xiaowu of Song, who poisoned talented brothers, with the survival of Liu Ziye. Gaozu noted that those with destiny cannot be harmed, referencing his own rise. He advised against killing during dynastic changes, warning it damages harmony, and stressed the close clan relationship between Qi and Liang, urging loyalty. He also instructed Zhao Shuzu to reassure the princes of Beidi of his intentions.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
四年，转吏部。
六年，迁太子詹事。
大通二年，出为宁远将军、吴郡太守。
三年，卒于郡舍，时年五十二。
诏赠侍中、中书令。
谥曰恭。
子恪兄弟十六人，并仕梁。
有文学者，子恪、子质、子显、子云、子晖五人。
子恪尝谓所亲曰： 文史之事，诸弟备之矣，不烦吾复牵率，但退食自公，无过足矣。
子恪少亦涉学，颇属文，随弃其本，故不传文集。
子瑳，亦知名太清中，官至吏部郎，避乱东阳，后为盗所害。
子范字景则，子恪第六弟也。
齐永明十年，封祁阳县侯，拜太子洗马。
天监初，降爵为子，除后军记室参军，复为太子洗马，俄迁司徒主簿，丁所生母忧去职。
子范有孝性，居丧以毁闻。
translation: 
Four years later, he was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
In the sixth year, he was moved to Prince Zhan Shi.
In the second year of Datong, he served as General Ningyuan and Prefect Yuxing.
Three years later, he died in Shedi, Danjun County, at the age of fifty-two.
The imperial edict was issued posthumously to Shi Zhong and Zhong Shu Ling.
The name of Mi is Gong.
There were sixteen Wang Ke brothers, all of whom served as officials in the Liang Dynasty.
There were five talented people: Zi Ke, Zizhi, Zixian, Ziyun and Zihui.
Wang Deng once said to those close to him: "My brothers are all good at literature and history. Don't bother me to guide them. As long as you give up your business and make no mistakes, you will be satisfied."
Wang Deng also dabbled in learning when he was young, and was good at writing articles, but then abandoned his original intention, so no collection of essays was handed down.
Ziyao is also very famous. During the Taiqing period, his official position reached the rank of official. He came to Dongyang to escape the war, but was later stolen and killed.
Zifan, whose courtesy name was Jingze, was the sixth younger brother of Zike.
In the 10th year of Yongming reign of the Qi Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Qiyang County and was granted the title of Prince Washing Horse.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was demoted to Viscount, granted the title of military recorder, and joined the army. He was then appointed as Prince Xi Ma, and soon moved to the position of Master Situ. He resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
Wang Huang had a filial nature, and was famous for being excessively sad and damaging to his health during mourning.

summary:
summary line 2: Zike later served as Prefect of Yongjia, Guanglu Qing, Secretary Supervisor, General Mingwei, Prefect of Lingling, Regular Attendant of Sanqi, General of the Auxiliary Country, Zong Zhengqing, Du Guan Shangshu, Minister of Personnel, and Prince Zhan Shi. In the second year of Datong, he became General Ningyuan and Prefect of Yuxing, dying at age fifty-two in 536. He was posthumously given the titles Shi Zhong and Zhong Shu Ling, with the posthumous name Gong. His sixteen brothers all served in Liang, with five talented ones: Zike, Zizhi, Zixian, Ziyun, and Zihui. Wang Deng, another brother, praised their literary skills but abandoned his own writing.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
寻复为宣惠武陵王司马，不就，仍除中散大夫，迁光禄、廷尉卿。
出为戎昭将军、始兴内史。
还除太中大夫，迁秘书监。
太宗即位，召为光禄大夫，加金章紫绶，以逼贼不拜。
其年葬简皇后，使与张缵俱制哀策文，太宗览读之，曰： 今葬礼虽阙，此文犹不减于旧。
寻遇疾卒，时年六十四。
贼平后，世祖追赠金紫光禄大夫。
谥曰文。
前后文集三十卷。
二子滂、确，并少有文章。
太宗东宫时，尝与邵陵王数诸萧文士，滂、确亦预焉。
滂官至尚书殿中郎，中军宣城王记室，先子范卒。
确，太清中历官宣城王友，司徒右长史。
贼平后，赴江陵，因没关西。
子显字景阳，子恪第八弟也。
幼聪慧，文献王异之，爱过诸子。
七岁，封宁都县侯。
永元末，以王子例拜给事中。
天监初，降爵为子。
累迁安西外兵，仁威记室参军，司徒主簿，太尉录事。
子显伟容貌，身长八尺。
translation: 
Soon after, he was appointed Sima, the fallen king of Xuanhui. Before he could take up the post, he was awarded the title of Zhongsan doctor and moved to Guanglu and Tingweiqing.
He served as general Rong Zhao and direct internal history of Zhou Dynasty.
He returned to the capital and was awarded the title of Taizhong doctor, and was moved to the position of secretary and supervisor.
Taisai ascended the throne and appointed Dr. Guanglu, who was given a gold medal and purple ribbon. However, he was not accepted because he forced the thieves to do so.
This year, Empress Jian was buried, and he was asked to write a memorial article together with Zhi Kuanglan. After Zuo Sai read it, he said: Although the funeral will not be held today, this article is no less good than in the old days.
Soon he fell ill and died at the age of sixty-four.
After the thief was put down, Shizu posthumously presented him with the title of Golden Ziguanglu.
Mi Hao Wen.
There are thirty volumes of collected works before and after.
The second son, Xiao Pang and Xiao Que, could write articles when they were young.
When Taizong was in the East Palace, he once consulted King Shaoling to plan for the scribes named Xiao, and Xiao Pang and Xiao Que were among them.
Xiao Pang was appointed as a lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace, and in the Imperial Palace of the Chinese Army, he passed away before Xiao Fan.
Xiao Que, during the Taiqing Dynasty, was the official of Xuancheng Wangyou, and Situ You was the chief historian.
After the thief was put down, he went to Hongzhi and died in Kansai.
Xiao's inscription is Ji Yan, who is Wang Deng's eighth younger brother.
He was smart when he was young, and Sesaiduo valued him and loved him more than other sons.
When he was seven years old, he was named Kongdu Tibao.
At the end of the fifth year of Cheng Dynasty, he was awarded Shizhong according to the regulations for princes to appoint officials.
In the early years of Tianjian, his title was reduced to viscount.
Lei Jing was promoted to serve as a foreign soldier in Anxi, joined the army in Renwei Jishi, Situ was in charge of bookkeeping, and Taiwei recorded affairs.
Xiao Ti has outstanding appearance and is eight feet tall.

summary:
summary line 3: Zifan, Zike's sixth younger brother, was named Marquis of Qiyang County in the tenth year of Yongming. In Tianjian, he was demoted to Viscount and held various posts, including Prince Xi Ma and Master Situ. Known for filial piety, he mourned excessively for his mother. He later served as Chief Secretary of Situ, Yan Yin Cheng, Prefect of Jian'an, and Grand Sima of the Imperial Household. He loved literary talents, favoring Wang Yan, and compiled the "Thousand-Character Essay." After Wang's death, Zifan moved to Xuanhui to consult and join the army. He felt undervalued compared to his brothers, often comparing himself to Du Xu's middle brother. He later became Sima, Zhongsan Doctor, Guanglu, Tingweiqing, General Rong Zhao, and Direct Internal History of Zhou. He returned to the capital as Taizhong Doctor and Secretary Supervisor. Under Taisai, he was appointed Guanglu Doctor but declined due to thieves. He died at sixty-four, posthumously given Jinzi Guanglu and the posthumous name Wen. His collected works totaled thirty volumes. His sons, Xiao Pang and Xiao Que, were early writers, with Xiao Pang serving as a lieutenant and Xiao Que as an official in Taiqing.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
好学，工属文。
尝著《鸿序赋》，尚书令沈约见而称曰： 可谓得明道之高致，盖《幽通》之流也。
又采众家《后汉》，考正同异，为一家之书。
又启撰《齐史》，书成，表奏之，诏付秘阁。
累迁太子中舍人，建康令，邵陵王友，丹阳尹丞，中书郎，守宗正卿。
出为临川内史，还除黄门郎。
中大通二年，迁长兼侍中。
高祖雅爱子显才，又嘉其容止吐纳，每御筵侍坐，偏顾访焉。
尝从容谓子显曰： 我造《通史》，此书若成，众史可废。
子显对曰： 仲尼赞《易》道，黜《八索》，述职方，除《九丘》，圣制符同，复在兹日。
时以为名对。
三年，以本官领国子博士。
高祖所制经义，未列学官，子显在职，表置助教一人，生十人。
又启撰高祖集，并《普通北伐记》。
其年迁国子祭酒，又加侍中，于学递述高祖《五经义》。
五年，迁吏部尚书，侍中如故。
translation: 
Eager to learn and good at writing articles.
He once wrote "Hongxu Fu", and the minister ordered Shen to meet him and praise him: "It can be said that he has a noble sentiment of Mingdao, which is of the same level as "Youtong Fu".
He also collected "Hou Mo" from many schools, examined the similarities and differences between them, and became a school.
He also initiated the compilation of "History of Qi". The book was completed, reported to the public, and ordered to be delivered to the Secret Pavilion for collection.
Lei Jing was promoted to Yaoyao and served as Prince Zhongsheren, Jianchenling, Shaoling Wangyou, Danyan Yincheng, Zhongshulang, and Shouzong Zhengqing.
He was appointed as the internal history of Luochuan, and was awarded the title of Huang Menlang in the capital.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to the position of chief and minister.
Emperor Gaozu loved his son very much and admired his talent, and he admired his manner and conversation. Whenever he sat with him at the imperial banquet, he would look back and ask him questions.
Zeng Calmly said to Zixian: I compiled "General History". If this book is compiled, other history books can be abandoned.
The king's answer to the question said: "Zhu Xing clearly stated the "Yi" Dao, abandoned "Ba Suo", and described the official prescription. In addition to "Jiu Qiu", the emperor's compilation was consistent with this, and Shan Sheng's works appeared again today.
People at the time thought this was a very clever answer.
In three years, he became a doctor of Guozi as his own official.
When he was directly responsible for the compilation of classics and meanings, there was no academic officer. Zihao was appointed as a doctor of Guozi. There was one teaching assistant in the above list, and ten students of Guozi were appointed.
He also started compiling Zhidan's collection and "Ordinary Northern Expedition".
In the next year, he was moved to the post of Guozi Jijiu, and was also appointed as a servant. He continued to expound the "Five Classics" written by Gao Dan in terms of knowledge.
In the fifth year, he was moved to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but his position as a minister remained the same.

summary:
summary line 4: Xiao Ti, Zike's eighth younger brother, was intelligent and valued by his father. At seven, he was named Kongdu Tibao. In Tianjian, his title was reduced to Viscount. He held posts including Foreign Soldier in Anxi, Wei Jishi, and Taiwei Recorder. Tall and handsome, he wrote "Hongxu Fu," praised by Shen Yue, and compiled "Hou Mo" and "History of Qi." He later served as Prince Zhongsheren, Jianchenling, Shaoling Wangyou, Danyan Yincheng, Zhongshulang, and Zong Zhengqing. In the second year of Zhongdatong, he became Chief and Minister. Emperor Gaozu admired his talent and manner, once asking him about compiling "General History." In three years, he became a Doctor of Guozi, later moving to Guozi Jijiu and Minister of Civil Affairs. He was proud and solemn, often ignoring guests. He died at forty-nine in the third year of Datong, posthumously given Shizhong and Zhongshu Ling, with the posthumous name Mi. His works include "Houmo Shu," "Qi Shu," "Ordinary Northern Expedition," "Guijian Biography," and collected works. His sons, Xiao Xu and Xiao Kai, were early achievers, with Xiao Kai praised by Taizong for his poetry.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
迁太子舍人，撰《东宫新记》，奏之，敕赐束帛。
累迁北中郎外兵参军，晋安王文学，司徒主簿，丹阳尹丞。
时湘东王为京尹，深相赏好，如布衣之交。
迁北中郎庐陵王谘议参军，兼尚书左丞。
大通元年，除黄门郎，俄迁轻车将军，兼司徒左长史。
二年，入为吏部。
三年，迁长兼侍中。
中大通元年，转太府卿。
三年，出为贞威将军、临川内史。
在郡以和理称，民吏悦之。
还除散骑常侍，俄复为侍中。
大同二年，迁员外散骑常侍、国子祭酒，领南徐州大中正。
顷之，复为侍中，祭酒、中正如故。
translation: 
He was moved to the position of Prince Sheren, compiled "Xin Ji of Shu Gong" and presented it to him, and ordered him to be rewarded with silk silk.
Lei Jing was promoted to the post of Beizhong Lang, a foreign soldier, and joined the army. He was the king of Jin'an in literature, the chief secretary of Situ, and the Yin Cheng of Danyang.
At that time, King Shu of Xiang was appointed as Jingyin, and he deeply appreciated and loved him. The two were like common acquaintances.
He was moved to the position of Prince of Luling, Beizhong Lang, to consult with the army, and concurrently served as Minister Zuo Cheng.
In the first year of Datong, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang, and soon he was promoted to General Qingche and concurrently Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the second year, he was appointed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
Three years later, he was moved to the position of chief and servant.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was transferred to the post of Taifuqing.
Three years later, he served as General Zhenwei and Internal History of Linchuan.
In the county, he was praised for his harmonious management of affairs, and all the officials liked him.
He returned to the capital and was appointed as a regular servant of casual cavalry, and soon he was appointed as a servant again.
In the second year of Datong, he moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and a minister of state, and led the Dazhongzheng of Xuzhou in the south.
Immediately he was appointed as a waiter again, and his duties as a minister and official remained as before.

summary:
summary line 5: Ziyun, Zike's ninth younger brother, was named Marquis of Xinpu County at twelve in the fourth year of Jianwu. In Tianjian, his title was reduced to Viscount. Diligent in study, he began writing at twenty. Quiet and reluctant to serve, he was recruited as a secretary at thirty. He held posts including Prince Sheren, Beizhong Lang, and Danyang Yin Cheng. King Shu of Xiang appreciated him. He later served as Huang Menlang, General Qingche, and Minister of Civil Affairs. In the first year of Zhongdatong, he became Taifuqing, then General Zhenwei and Internal History of Linchuan. He returned as Regular Attendant of Sanqi and Minister of State. He proposed revising sacrificial music lyrics, replacing Shen Yue's works with classical references. Skilled in cursive calligraphy, he imitated Zhong Yao and Wang Xizhi, earning Emperor Gaozu's praise. In the seventh year, he served as General Renwei and Prefect of Shuyang. In the first year of Taiqing, he became Shizhong and Guozi Jijiu. In the second year, Hou Jing invaded, and Ziyun fled, dying of starvation at sixty-three in 549. His works include "Book of Jin" and "New Records of the East Palace." His son Xiao Te, skilled in calligraphy, died at twenty-five.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
三年三月，宫城失守，东奔晋陵，馁卒于显灵寺僧房，年六十三。
所著《晋书》一百一十卷，《东宫新记》二十卷。
第二子特，字世达。
早知名，亦善草隶。
高祖尝谓子云曰： 子敬之书，不及逸少。
近见特迹，遂逼于卿。
历官著作佐郎，太子舍人，宣惠主簿，中军记室。
出为海盐令，坐事免。
年二十五，先子云卒。
子晖字景光，子云弟也。
少涉书史，亦有文才。
起家员外散骑侍郎，迁南中郎记室。
出为临安令。
性恬静，寡嗜好，尝预重云殿听制讲《三慧经》，退为《讲赋》奏之，甚见称赏。
迁安西武陵王谘议，带新繁令，随府转仪同从事、骠骑长史，卒。
translation: 
In March of the third year, the palace city was lost. He fled eastward to Jinling and died of starvation in the monk's room of Xianling Temple. He was sixty-three years old.
His works include 110 volumes of "Book of Jin" and 20 volumes of "New Records of the East Palace".
The second son Xiaote was named Shida.
He became famous very early and was good at cursive calligraphy.
Emperor Gaozu once said to Xiao Te: Zijing's calligraphy is not as good as Wang Baozhi's.
Seeing Xiao Yi's handwriting recently made Qing feel threatened.
His official titles include Zuolang, Prince Sheren, Xuanhui, and the Zhongjun Records Office.
He took up the post of Haiyan Order, but was dismissed for some reasons.
At the age of twenty-five, he died in front of Wang Yun.
Zihui, whose courtesy name is Jingguang, is Ziyun's younger brother.
When he was young, he dabbled in book history and was also talented in literature.
He started as a member of the imperial family and served as a minister of Sanqi, and moved to the office of Nanzhonglang.
Served as Lin'an Order.
He has a quiet temperament and few hobbies. He once participated in the Chongyun Hall to listen to the "Three Wisdom Sutra" lectures, and came back to write "Lectures on Fu" as a memorial, which was highly praised.
He moved to Anxi to serve as a consultant to King Wuling of Anxi Province, and brought in new orders. He was transferred to Yitong to serve as a member of the imperial family, and to serve as the chief historian of Hussar. He died.

summary:
summary line 6: Zihui, Ziyun's younger brother, was talented in literature. He started as a member of the imperial family and served as Sanqi Minister and Lin'an Order. Quiet and reserved, he wrote "Lectures on Fu" after attending a lecture. He later served as Consultant to King Wuling and Chief Historian of Hussar, dying in office. Chen Libu Shangshu Yao Chari noted that the Liang Dynasty, unlike previous dynasties, did not suppress former clans, allowing Zike's brothers to hold positions, reflecting Emperor Gaozu's magnanimity.

