Summary uses chunk [1, 5, 7, 6]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
父杨，以恭孝称于乡闾，不应州郡之命。
杨姑即明德马后之外祖母也。
马后闻杨二女皆有才色，迎而训之。
永平末，选入太子宫，甚有宠。
肃宗即位，并为贵人。
建初三年，大贵人生庆，明年立为皇太子，征杨为议郎，褒赐甚渥。
贵人长于人事，供奉长乐宫，身执馈馔，太后怜之。
太后崩后，窦皇后宠盛，以贵人姊妹并幸，庆为太子，心内恶之，与母比阳主谋陷宋氏。
外令兄弟求其纤过，内使御者侦伺得失。
后于掖庭门邀遮得贵人书，云 病思生菟，令家求之 ，因诬言欲作蛊道祝诅，以菟为厌胜之术，日夜毁谮，贵人母子遂渐见疏。
庆出居承禄观，数月，窦后讽掖庭令诬奏前事，请加验实。
七年，帝遂废太子庆而立皇太子，梁贵人子也。
乃下诏曰： 皇太子有失惑无常之性，爰自孩乳，至今益章，恐袭其母凶恶之风，不可以奉宗庙，为天下主。
大义灭亲，况降退乎！
今废庆为清河王。
皇子保育皇后，承训怀衽，导达善性，将成其器。
盖庶子慈母，尚有终身之恩，岂若嫡后事正义明哉！
今以为皇太子。
遂出贵人姊妹置丙舍，使小黄门蔡伦考实之，皆承讽旨傅致其事，乃载送暴室。
二贵人同时饮药自杀。
帝犹伤之，敕掖庭令葬于樊濯聚。
于是免杨归本郡。
郡县因事复捕系之，杨友人前怀令山阳张峻、左冯翊沛国刘均等奔走解释，得以免罪。
杨失志憔悴，卒于家。
translation: 
His father, Song Yang, was praised by the village for his respectfulness and filial piety, and he should not be drafted by the state or county.
Song Yang's aunt is the maternal grandmother of Empress Ma of Mingde.
After Ma heard that Song Yang's two daughters were both talented and beautiful, she took them to teach them a lesson.
At the end of Yongping, both daughters were selected into the prince's palace, and the prince liked them very much.
When Suzong came to the throne, they were all nobles.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the great nobleman Liu Qing was born. In the second year, he was established as the crown prince, and Song Yang was recruited as Yilang. He was highly praised and rewarded.
The empress dowager liked her because she was a good person, dedicated to Changle Palace, and did the cooking work herself.
After the death of the Empress Dowager, Empress Dou was favored by Su Zong. Because both noble sisters were favored by the emperor, and Liu Qing was the prince, he was jealous of them and conspired with her mother Biyang Zhu to frame the Song family.
Outside, let her brothers collect her faults, even small ones; inside, let her attendants spy on her gains and losses.
Later, I intercepted a letter from the nobleman at Yeting Gate, saying: I want some raw dodder when I am sick, and I want my family to look for it. Therefore, he slandered her and said that she wanted to do magic tricks to pray for ghosts and gods to bring disaster on Queen Dou. She used dodder as a means of victory. She was slandered and framed day and night. The noble mother and son gradually became alienated from the emperor.
Liu Qing came to live in Chenglu Temple. A few months later, Queen Dou hinted that Ye Ting had ordered a noble man to survive and framed the noble man. Please test it and implement it.
In the seventh year, the emperor deposed the crown prince Liu Qing and established the crown prince Liu Zhao. Liu Zhao is the son of Liang Guiren.
So he issued an edict saying: The Crown Prince has a confusing and unpredictable nature, which started when he was a child and has become more obvious now. I'm afraid he inherited his mother's vicious style and cannot worship in the ancestral temple or be the master of the world.
Killing relatives for the sake of justice, let alone surrendering?
Now Prince Liu Qing is deposed as King Qinghe.
Crown Prince Liu Zhao was raised by the Queen and was educated by his mother when he was a child, which induced him to have a good character and he was expected to become a great person.
Most concubines have a loving mother as their mother and have a lifetime of kindness. How can it be compared with the righteousness of a direct descendant?
Now Zhao is the crown prince.
So the noble sister Ju Bing was sent to Cai Lun of Xiaohuangmen to conduct the examination and implementation. They all adhered to the above-mentioned will and attached it to the facts, so they were sent to the violent room.
The two noble men committed suicide by drinking medicine at the same time.
The emperor still mourned them and ordered Ye Ting to bury them in Fan Zhuoquan.
Song Yang was relieved of his official position and returned to the county.
The county arrested him again for the crime. Song Yang's friends Qianhuai County Magistrate Zhang Jun, Zuofeng Yipeiguo Liu Jun and others rushed to explain and were exempted from the crime.
Song Yang lost his ambition, became haggard and melancholy, and died at home.

summary:
summary line 0: The lives and fates of Emperor Zhang's eight sons, focusing on the lineages of several kings. Liu Qing, King Xiao of Qinghe, was born to Noble Consort Song. His mother and aunt were favored by Emperor Zhang but were framed by Empress Dou after the death of Empress Dowager Ma, leading to their forced suicide. Liu Qing was deposed as crown prince in favor of his half-brother Liu Zhao (Emperor He). Despite this, Liu Qing maintained a close and respectful relationship with Emperor He, who treated him with great favor and trust. Liu Qing was known for his filial piety, caution, and grief over his mother's unjust death, often making private sacrifices. He died at age 29 and was buried in Guangqiu. His son Liu Hu succeeded him but died without heirs, leading to the appointment of Liu Yanping, son of Liu Chong, as King of Qinghe. Later, Liu Qing was posthumously honored as Emperor Xiaode, and his mother as Empress Jingyin.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
事发觉，文等遂劫清河相谢暠，将至王宫司马门，曰： 当立王为天子，暠为公。
暠不听，骂之，文因刺杀暠。
于是捕文、鲔诛之。
有司因劾奏蒜，坐贬爵为尉氏侯，徙桂阳，自杀。
立三年，国绝。
梁冀恶清河名，明年，乃改为甘陵。
梁太后立安平孝王子经侯理为甘陵王，奉孝德皇祀，是为威王。
理立二十五年薨，子贞王定嗣。
定立四年薨，子献王忠嗣。
黄巾贼起，忠为国人所执，既而释之。
灵帝以亲亲故，诏复忠国。
忠立十三年薨，嗣子为黄巾所害，建安十一年，以无后，国除。
济北惠王寿，母申贵人，颍川人也，世吏二千石。
贵人年十三，入掖庭。
寿以永元二年封，分太山郡为国。
和帝遵肃宗故事，兄弟皆留京师，恩宠笃密。
有司请遣诸王归籓，不忍许之，及帝崩，乃就国。
永初元年，邓太后封寿舅申转为新亭侯。
寿立三十一年薨，自永初己后，戎狄叛乱，国用不足，始封王薨，减赙钱为千万，布万区；嗣王薨五百万，布五千匹。
时，唯寿最尊亲，特赙钱三千万，布三万匹。
子节王登嗣。
永宁元年，封登弟五人为乡侯，皆别食太山邑。
登立十五年薨，子哀王多嗣。
多立三年薨，无子。
永和四年，立战乡侯安国为济北王，是为王。
安国立七年薨，子孝王次嗣。
本初元年，封次弟猛为亭侯。
次九岁丧父，至孝。
建和元年，梁太后下诏曰： 济北王次以幼年守籓，躬履孝道，父没哀恸，焦毁过礼，草庐土席，衰杖在身，头不批沐，体生疮肿。
谅暗已来二十八月，自诸国有忧，未之闻也，朝廷甚嘉焉。
translation: 
When the matter was discovered, Liu Wen and others kidnapped Qinghe Prime Minister Xie Fan and took him to Simamen of the palace. They said: The king should be made the emperor and Xie Fan the duke.
Xie Fan refused to listen to them and scolded them, so Liu Wen assassinated Xie Fan.
So Liu Wen and Liu Tuna were arrested and killed.
Officials impeached Liu Lian due to his impeachment, and he was demoted to the rank of Marquis of Wei clan. He moved to Guiyang and committed suicide.
After three years of establishment, the feudal state was abolished.
Liang Ji hated the name Qinghe and changed it to Ganling the next year.
The Empress Dowager Liang appointed Prince Jinghou Li of Anping Xiao as the King of Ganling, and served Emperor Xiaode to offer sacrifices, making him the King of Wei.
Liu Lili passed away in the twenty-fifth year, and Liu Ding, King Zizhen, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Dingli died in four years, and Prince Xian Liu Zhong succeeded to the throne.
The Yellow Turban bandits arose, and Liu Zhong was captured by the countrymen and released soon after.
Emperor Ling believed that one should kiss one's relatives, and it was most important to kiss one's relatives, so he ordered the restoration of Liu Zhong's feudal state.
Liu Zhongli died in the 13th year of his reign, and his son was killed by the Yellow Turban Army. In the 11th year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished because he had no heirs.
Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei, and his mother Shen Guiren, were from Yingchuan. He has been an official for two thousand years.
When the noble was thirteen, he entered Yeting.
Liu Shou was named king in the second year of Yongyuan. Divide Taishan County into a country.
Emperor He abided by Suzong's old custom, and his brothers all stayed in the capital, and their love was extremely close.
The officials asked the kings to return to the feudal kingdom, but the emperor could not bear them leaving. He waited until the emperor died before returning to the feudal kingdom.
In the first year of Yongchu, Empress Dowager Deng granted Liu Shou's uncle Shen Zhuan the title of Marquis of Xinting.
Liu Shouli passed away in the 31st year of his reign. Since Yongchu, Rong and Di rebelled, and the country's finances were insufficient. When the newly crowned king passed away, the funeral expenses were reduced to tens of millions and ten thousand pieces of cloth. When the king who succeeded the throne died, the money was five million and five thousand pieces of cloth.
At this time, only Liu Shou respected his relatives the most, and specially sent him 30 million yuan for funeral expenses and 30,000 pieces of cloth.
Zijie King Liu ascended to the throne.
In the first year of Yongning, Liu Deng's five younger brothers were granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside, and all of them were taxed in Taishan.
Liu Dengli passed away in the fifteenth year, and Prince Ai Wang Liu Duo succeeded to the throne.
Liu Duoli died three years ago without any sons.
In the fourth year of Yonghe's reign, Liu Anguo, the marquis of Zhanxiang, was appointed King of Jibei, and was named King of Li.
Liu An passed away seven years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, and his son Xiao Wang Liu Ci succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Benchu, Liu Meng, Liu Ci's younger brother, was granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Ci lost his father when he was nine years old, and he has the most filial nature.
In the first year of Jianhe, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict saying: King Liu Ci of Jibei spent his childhood guarding the vassal state and practicing filial piety. When his father died, he mourned excessively. He lived in a thatched hut, sitting and lying on earthen mats, never leaving his mourning stick, and his hair was not combed or washed, which resulted in sores and swelling on his body.
Since the beginning of mourning, in the 28th month of the twelfth month, since every feudal country has mourned, I have never heard of anyone like him.

summary:
summary line 1: Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei, was born to Noble Consort Shen. He was granted his kingdom in the second year of Yongyuan. Emperor He, following his father's customs, kept his brothers in the capital, and they were very close. Liu Shou died after 31 years as king. His descendants included Liu Deng, Liu Duo (who died without sons), and Liu Anguo, who was appointed king. Liu Ci, son of Liu Anguo, was noted for his extreme filial piety during his father's mourning, for which Empress Dowager Liang granted him an additional 5,000 households. The Jibei line ended when Liu Zheng died without sons in the eleventh year of Jian'an.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
贬为都乡侯，遣归河间。
翼于是谢宾客，闭门自处。
永建五年，父开上书，愿分蠡吾县以封翼，顺帝从之。
翼卒，子志嗣，为大将军梁冀所立，是为桓帝。
梁太后诏追尊河间孝王为孝穆皇，夫人赵氏曰孝穆后，庙曰清庙，陵曰乐成陵；蠡吾先侯曰孝崇皇，庙曰列庙，陵曰博陵。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节奉策书、玺绶，祠以太牢。
建和二年，更封帝弟都乡侯硕为平原王，留博陵，奉翼后。
尊翼夫人马氏为孝崇博园贵人，以涿郡之良乡、故安，河间之蠡吾三县为汤沐邑。
硕嗜酒，多过失，帝令马贵人领王家事。
建安十一年，国除。
解渎亭侯淑，以河间孝王子封。
淑卒，子嗣。
卒，子宏嗣，为大将军窦武所立，是为灵帝。
建宁元年，窦太后诏追遵皇祖淑为孝元皇，夫人夏氏曰孝元后，陵曰敦陵，庙曰靖庙；皇考为孝仁皇，夫人董氏为慎园贵人，陵曰慎陵，庙曰奂庙。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节之河间奉策书、玺绶，祠以太守，常以岁时遣中常侍持节之河间奉祠。
熹平三年，使使拜河间安王利子康为济南王，奉孝仁皇祀。
康薨，子嗣，建安十二年，为黄巾贼所害。
子开嗣，立十三年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
城阳怀王淑，以永元二年分济阴为国。
立五年薨，葬于京师，无子，国除，还并济阴。
广宗殇王万岁，以永元五年封，分巨鹿为国。
其年薨，葬于京师。
无子，国除，并还巨鹿。
平原怀王胜，和帝长子也。
不载母氏。
少有痼疾，延平元年封。
立八年薨，葬于京师。
无子，邓太后立乐安夷王宠子得为平原王，奉胜后，是为哀王。
得立六年薨，无子，永宁元年，太后又立河间王开子都乡侯翼为平原王嗣。安帝废之。国除。
translation: 
He was demoted to the title of Marquis of Duxiang and sent back to Hejian.
Liu Yi then declined the guests, refused to interact with them, and kept to himself.
In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, his father Liu Kai wrote a letter requesting that Liwu County be divided and given the title of Liu Yi, and Emperor Shun agreed.
Liu Yi died and his son Liu Zhi succeeded him. He was established as Emperor Huan by General Liang Ji.
The Empress Dowager Liang honored King Xiao of Hejian as Emperor Xiaomu, and his wife Zhao as Empress Xiaomu. The temple was called Qingmiao and the mausoleum was Lecheng Ling.
They all set up orders and ministers to make the Situ hold the policy books and seals and ribbons in a strict manner, and the sacrifices were too tight.
In the second year of Jianhe's reign, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, the Marquis of Duxiang, was granted the title of King of Pingyuan. He stayed in Boling and served Liu Yi's descendants.
He respected Liu Yi's wife, Ma, as a noble of Xiao Chongbo Garden, and designated the three counties of Liangxiang and Gu'an in Zhuojun and Liwu in Hejian as Tangmuyi, and the income from the town was used for bathing.
Liu Shuo, the Marquis of Duxiang, was fond of drinking and made many mistakes. The emperor sent Ma Guiren to manage the king's household affairs.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Shu, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was granted the title of the son of King Xiao of Hejian.
Liu Shu died and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang.
Chang died and was succeeded by his son Liu Hong, who was made Lingdi by General Dou Wu.
In the first year of Jianning, Empress Dowager Dou issued an imperial edict to honor the imperial ancestor Liu Shu as Emperor Xiaoyuan. His wife, Xia, was named Empress Xiaoyuan, the mausoleum was called Dunling, and the temple was called Jingmiao.
They all set up ministers and ministers to make Situ Chijie serve policy books and seals in the river, and use Tailao to offer sacrifices. They often sent Zhongchang to serve in the river at the beginning of the year.
In the third year of Xiping, the envoy worshiped Liu Lizi, the king of Hejian An, as Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, and served Emperor Xiaoren to offer sacrifices.
Liu Kang passed away and was succeeded by his son Liu Binbei. In the twelfth year of Jian'an, he was killed by the Yellow Turban bandits.
His son Liu Kai succeeded him, and in the 13th year of his reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
Liu Shu, the Huaiwang of Chengyang, was divided into Jiyin and the country in the second year of Yongyuan. He died in the fifth year of Lili and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed and still merged into Jiyin.
Liu Wansui, the mourning king of Guangzong, was granted the title in the fifth year of Yongyuan, and he was divided into Julu as the country.
He died this year and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed. Still merged into Julu.
Liu Sheng, King Huai of Pingyuan, was the eldest son of Emperor He.
The mother's name is not recorded.
He had a difficult-to-treat disease when he was young, so he was granted the title in the first year of Yanping.
He died in the eighth year of his life and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, Empress Dowager Deng made Liu De, the son of Liu Chong, King of Le'anyi, the King of Pingyuan. As a descendant of Liu Sheng, he was the King of Ai.
Liu Deli died in the sixth year without any children. In the first year of Yongning, the Queen Mother appointed Liu Kaizi, the king of Hejian, and Liu Yi, the duxianghou, as the successor of the Pingyuan king. Emperor An deposed him and removed the feudal state.

summary:
summary line 2: Liu Kai, King Xiao of Hejian, was granted his kingdom in the second year of Yongyuan. He was known for abiding by the law and was respected by his subordinates. He died after 42 years as king. His son Liu Zheng was arrogant and cruel but was reformed by the strict Prime Minister Shen Jing. Liu Zheng's descendants included Liu Jian, Liu Li, and Liu Ye, who was made Marquis of Chongde when Wei accepted the Han abdication. Liu Yi, a son of Liu Kai, was initially favored by Empress Dowager Deng but was later framed and demoted. He eventually became the father of Emperor Huan, who honored Liu Kai as Emperor Xiaomu. Liu Shu, another son of Liu Kai, was posthumously honored as Emperor Xiaoyuan by his son, Emperor Ling.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
《书》不云乎： 用德章厥善。
《诗》云： 孝子不匮，永锡尔类。
今增次封五千户，广其土字，以尉孝子恻隐之劳。
次立十七年薨，子鸾嗣。
鸾薨，子政嗣。
政薨，无子，建安十一年，国除。
河间孝王开，以永元二年封，分乐成、勃海、涿郡为国。
延平元年就国。
开奉遵法度，吏人敬之。
永宁元年，邓太后封开子翼为平原王，奉怀王胜祀；子德为安平王，奉乐成王党祀。
开立四十二年薨，子惠王政嗣。
政傲，不奉法宪，顺帝以侍御史吴郡沈景有强能称，故擢为河间相。
景到国谒王，王不正服，箕踞殿上。
侍郎赞拜，景峙不为礼。
问王所在，虎贲曰： 是非王邪？ 景曰： 王不服，常人何别！
今相谒王，岂谒无礼者邪！
王惭而更服，景然后拜。
出住宫门外，请王傅责之曰： 前发京师，陛下见受诏，以王不恭，使相检督。
诸君空受爵禄，而无训导之义。
因奏治罪，诏书让政而诘责傅。
景因捕诸奸人上案其罪，杀戮尤恶者数十人，出冤狱百余人。
政遂为改节，悔过自修。
阳嘉元年，封政弟十三人皆为亭侯。
政立十年薨，子贞王建嗣。
建立十年薨，子安王利嗣。
利立二十八年薨，子陔嗣。陔立四十一年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
蠡吾侯翼，元初六年邓太后征济北、河间王诸子诣京师，奇翼美仪容，故以为平原怀王后焉。留在京师。
岁余，太后崩。
安帝乳母王圣与中常侍江京等谮邓骘兄弟及翼，云与中大夫赵王谋图不轨，窥觎神器，怀大逆心。
translation: 
The court considered this to be extremely valuable. Isn't it said in the Book of Books: Make it clear with morality, so that everyone will compete to do good.
"The Book of Songs" says: The filial piety of a filial son will never be exhausted. It will be bestowed upon your kind and teach the world.
Now, 5,000 more households have been granted to Liu Ci to make his place more spacious, so as to comfort the grief of the filial son.
Liu Cili died in the seventh year, and his son Liu Luan succeeded to the throne.
When Liu Luan died, his son Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne and had no sons.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Kai, the filial king of Hejian, was granted the title in the second year of Yongyuan, and was divided into Lecheng, Bohai and Zhuojun.
He arrived in the country in the first year of Yanping.
Liu Kai abides by the law, and his subordinates all respect and love him.
In the first year of Yongning, Empress Dowager Deng named Liu Kai's son Liu Yi as the King of Pingyuan to serve the sacrifices of King Huai Liu Sheng, and her son Liu De as the King of Anping to serve the sacrifices of King Liu Dang of Success.
Liu Kaili died in the 42nd year of his reign, and King Zihui Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne.
Liu Zheng was arrogant and cruel, and did not abide by the laws of the country. Emperor Shun promoted Shen Jing of Wu County to the rank of Prime Minister of Hejian because he was a shrewd and capable person serving as his censor.
Shen Jing went to the country to pay homage to King Liu Zheng. Liu Zheng was disheveled and sat in the palace with his feet stretched out.
The minister read out the etiquette, but Shen Jing stood still and asked the master of ceremonies, where is the king?
Huben said: Isn't this the king? Shen Jing said: If a king does not wear royal clothes, what is the difference between him and ordinary people?
Now that the prime minister has come to pay homage to the king, is it allowed to pay homage to someone who is rude?
The king was ashamed, changed his clothes, and then bowed to Shen Jing.
Shen Jing went out of the palace and invited Liu Zheng's master to question him and said: "Go to the capital. The emperor ordered me to supervise because the king is disrespectful."
You have taken the state's salary in vain and failed to fulfill your responsibility to teach the king.
He was punished because of the memorial. The imperial court issued an edict to blame Liu Zheng and questioned and condemned his master.
As a result, Shen Jing arrested many traitors and petitioned them to be punished for their crimes. Killed dozens of people who had committed heinous crimes, and released more than a hundred people who had been wrongly imprisoned.
Liu Zhengnai corrected his behavior and repented.
In the first year of Yangjia, all thirteen of Liu Zheng's younger brothers were granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Zhengli died ten years ago, and Zizhen King Liu Jian succeeded to the throne.
Liu Jianli died in ten years, and Liu Li, King of Zi'an, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Li died in the 28th year of his reign, and his son Liu Ye succeeded to the throne. In the 41st year of Liu Li's reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
In the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, in the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng summoned the princes of Jibei and Hejian to Liu Yi, the Marquis of Liwu. She admired Liu Yi's beauty and considered him a descendant of Liu De, Huai King of Pingyuan, and stayed in the capital.
More than a year later, the Queen Mother passed away.
Wang Sheng, the wet nurse of Emperor An, and Jiang Jing, the minister of Zhongchang, framed the brothers Deng Zhi and Liu Yi, saying that they had conspired with King Zhao, the chief minister of Zhongzhong, to seize the throne and were treasonous.

summary:
summary line 3: The text also briefly mentions other sons of Emperor Zhang: Liu Quan, King of Qiancheng, who died without heirs; Liu Shu, King Huai of Chengyang, who died without children; Liu Wansui, King Ai of Guangzong, who died the same year he was enfeoffed; and Liu Sheng, King Huai of Pingyuan, who died young without heirs. The historian's commentary notes that the descendants of Emperor Zhang, known for their virtue and honesty, became the rulers of the Han dynasty, fulfilling an ancient saying.

