Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子曰： 六艺于治一也。
礼以节人，乐以发和，书以道事，诗以达意，易以神化，春秋以义。
太史公曰：天道恢恢，岂不大哉！
谈言微中，亦可以解纷。
淳于髡者，齐之赘婿也。
长不满七尺，滑稽多辩，数使诸侯，未尝屈辱。
齐威王之时喜隐，好为淫乐长夜之饮，沈湎不治，委政卿大夫。
百官荒乱，诸侯并侵，国且危亡，在於旦暮，左右莫敢谏。
淳于髡说之以隐曰： 国中有大鸟，止王之庭，三年不蜚又不鸣，不知此鸟何也？
王曰： 此鸟不飞则已，一飞冲天；不鸣则已，一鸣惊人。
translation: 
Confucius said: The Six Classics have the same role in governing the country.
"Li" is used to regulate people's words and deeds, "Music" is used to promote people's harmony, "Book" is used to record past deeds and regulations, "Poetry" is used to express emotions, "Yi" is used to spy on the magical changes of heaven and earth, and "Spring and Autumn" is used to understand the meaning of subtle words and weigh the right and wrong.
Tai Shigong said: The truth in the world is vast and boundless, isn't it great!
If the words can be slightly to the point, it can also resolve a lot of troubles.
Chunyu Kun was a son-in-law of Qi State.
Less than seven feet tall, he is funny and eloquent. He has been on many missions to the princes and has never been humiliated.
When King Wei of Qi was in power, he liked to talk in argot, feast all night long, indulge in excessive drinking, ignored state affairs, and entrusted political affairs to the officials.
The civil and military officials are dissolute and indulgent, and the princes and countries invade and invade. The country is in danger and is in danger in a matter of seconds. None of the ministers around King Qi dared to give advice.
Chunyu Kun used argot to admonish and admonish King Wei of Qi, saying: There is a big bird in the capital that landed in the king's courtyard. It has not flown or screamed for three years. Does the king know what happened to this bird?
King Wei of Qi said: If this bird does not fly, it will go straight to the sky; if it does not scream, it will amaze people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
於是乃朝诸县令长七十二人，赏一人，诛一人，奋兵而出。诸侯振惊，皆还齐侵地。
威行三十六年。
语在田完世家中。
威王八年，楚大发兵加齐。
齐王使淳于髡之赵请救兵，赍金百斤，车马十驷。
淳于髡仰天大笑，冠缨索绝。
王曰： 先生少之乎？
髡曰： 何敢！
王曰： 笑岂有说乎？
髡曰： 今者臣从东方来，见道傍有禳田者，操一豚蹄，酒一盂，祝曰： 瓯窭满篝，汙邪满车，五穀蕃熟，穰穰满家。
臣见其所持者狭而所欲者奢，故笑之。
於是齐威王乃益赍黄金千溢，白璧十双，车马百驷。
髡辞而行，至赵。
赵王与之精兵十万，革车千乘。
楚闻之，夜引兵而去。
威王大说，置酒后宫，召髡赐之酒。
translation: 
So he ordered all the chiefs of the seventy-two counties in the country to come to the court to report. They rewarded one person and killed another. They also sent troops to defend against the enemy. The princes and states were shocked and returned the occupied land to Qi.
Qi's prestige lasted for thirty-six years.
All these things are recorded in "Tian Wan Family".
In the eighth year of King Wei of Qi's reign, the State of Chu sent a large army to invade its borders.
The King of Qi sent Chunyu Kun as an envoy to the State of Zhao to request reinforcements, and asked him to carry a gift of a hundred catties of gold and ten four-horse carriages.
Chunyu Kun looked up to the sky and laughed so hard that the string holding his hat broke.
King Wei said: Sir, do you think the gift is too little?
Chunyu Kun said: How dare you think too little!
King Wei said: Then you laugh, do you have any excuse?
Chunyu Kun said: Today I came from the east and saw a man worshiping the God of the Fields by the roadside. He held a pig's trotter and a glass of wine and prayed: "The grain harvested in the highlands fills the bonnet, and the crops harvested in the low fields fill the vehicles; the grains are lush and ripe, and the rice grains are piled up in the warehouse."
I saw that he brought few sacrifices and prayed for many things, so I laughed at him.
So King Wei of Qi increased the gifts to a thousand pieces of gold, ten pairs of white jade stones, and a hundred four-horse carriages.
Chunyu Kun said goodbye and set off for the Kingdom of Zhao.
King Zhao allocated him 100,000 elite soldiers and 1,000 leather-wrapped chariots.
When the Chu State heard the news, they withdrew their troops overnight.
King Qi Wei was very happy. He set up wine and food in the harem, summoned Chunyu Kun and gave him wine to drink.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
问曰： 先生能饮几何而醉？
对曰： 臣饮一斗亦醉，一石亦醉。
威王曰： 先生饮一斗而醉，恶能饮一石哉！
其说可得闻乎？
髡曰： 赐酒大王之前，执法在傍，御史在后，髡恐惧俯伏而饮，不过一斗径醉矣。
若亲有严客，髡韝鞠鯱，待酒於前，时赐馀沥，奉觞上寿，数起，饮不过二斗径醉矣。
若朋友交游，久不相见，卒然相睹，欢然道故，私情相语，饮可五六斗径醉矣。
若乃州闾之会，男女杂坐，行酒稽留，六博投壶，相引为曹，握手无罚，目眙不禁，前有堕珥，后有遗簪，髡窃乐此，饮可八斗而醉二参。
日暮酒阑，合尊促坐，男女同席，履舄交错，杯盘狼藉，堂上烛灭，主人留髡而送客，罗襦襟解，微闻芗泽，当此之时，髡心最欢，能饮一石。
故曰酒极则乱，乐极则悲；万事尽然，言不可极，极之而衰。
translation: 
Ask him: How much wine can you drink before you get drunk?
Chunyu Kun replied: I can get drunk even if I drink a dou of wine, and I can get drunk even if I drink a stone of wine.
King Wei said: "Sir, you will get drunk after drinking one measure. How can you drink one stone?"
Can you tell me this truth?
Chunyu Kun said: The king gave me wine in front of me, with the law enforcement officer standing beside me and the censor standing behind me. I was frightened, bowed my head and drank on the ground. I was drunk after not even one bucket.
If my parents have distinguished guests, I roll up my sleeves, sit down on my knees, and serve wine to the guests. The guests reward me with residual wine from time to time, and I raise my glass to toast many times to socialize, and I get drunk after less than two cups.
If friends are traveling together, they have not seen each other for a long time, and suddenly they meet again. They happily reminisce about the past and talk about their hearts. They will become drunk after drinking about five or six buckets.
As for gatherings in the countryside, men and women sit together, toast each other, and there is no time limit. They also play games such as Liubo and Hu Tou. They call friends and invite pairs. Shaking hands and talking happily are not punished, and flirting is not prohibited. There are fallen earrings in front of me and lost hairpins behind my back. At this time, I am happiest. I can drink eight measures of wine, and I am only two or three points drunk.
It was getting dark and the wine was almost finished. We put the remaining wine together and everyone sat down together, men and women sharing the same table. Shoes and clogs were mixed together. Cups and plates were in a mess. The candles in the main room had been extinguished.
Therefore, if you drink too much, you will easily get into trouble, and if you are extremely happy, something sad will happen. This is true of all things. This statement means that no matter what happens, it should not be taken to extremes. If it reaches extremes, it will decline.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
以讽谏焉。
齐王曰： 善。
乃罢长夜之饮，以髡为诸侯主客。
宗室置酒，髡尝在侧。
其后百馀年，楚有优孟。
优孟，故楚之乐人也。
长八尺，多辩，常以谈笑讽谏。
楚庄王之时，有所爱马，衣以文绣，置之华屋之下，席以露床，啗以枣脯。
马病肥死，使群臣丧之，欲以棺椁大夫礼葬之。
左右争之，以为不可。
王下令曰： 有敢以马谏者，罪至死。
优孟闻之，入殿门。仰天大哭。
王惊而问其故。
优孟曰： 马者王之所爱也，以楚国堂堂之大，何求不得，而以大夫礼葬之，薄，请以人君礼葬之。
王曰： 何如？
对曰： 臣请以彫玉为棺，文梓为椁，楩枫豫章为题凑，发甲卒为穿壙，老弱负土，齐赵陪位於前，韩魏翼卫其后，庙食太牢，奉以万户之邑。
诸侯闻之，皆知大王贱人而贵马也。
王曰： 寡人之过一至此乎！
translation: 
Chunyu Kun used this to tactfully persuade King Qi Wei.
King Wei said: OK.
So King Wei stopped drinking and drinking every night, and appointed Chunyu Kun as the guest official to receive guests from the princes.
The royal family of the King of Qi held banquets, and Chunyu Kun often accompanied them.
More than a hundred years after Chunyu Kun, Yu Meng came out of the Chu State.
You Meng was originally a singing and dancing artist from Chu State.
He was eight feet tall and very eloquent. He often used jokes to persuade the king of Chu.
During the reign of King Zhuang of Chu, he had a favorite horse. He dressed it in brocade clothes, kept it in a magnificent house, slept on a bed without a curtain, and fed it candied dried dates.
The horse became ill and died because of obesity. King Zhuang of Chu sent his ministers to hold a funeral for the horse. They wanted to bury it in a coffin and bury it according to the etiquette of a doctor.
King Zhuang's ministers on the left and right quarreled with each other to advise him on this matter, thinking that it should not be done.
King Zhuang issued an order: Anyone who dares to remonstrate with the matter of burying a horse will be sentenced to death.
When Youmeng heard this, he walked into the palace gate and cried to the sky.
King Zhuang was surprised and asked him why he was crying.
Youmeng said: "The horse is the king's favorite thing. With a country as powerful as Chu, there is nothing that can't be done, but burying it with the etiquette of a doctor is too rude. Please bury it with the etiquette of a king."
King Zhuang asked: What should we do?
You Meng replied: I requested that the coffin be made of beautiful jade with carved patterns, the cover of fine catalpa wood, and the coffin blocks made of valuable woods such as urin, maple, hemp, and camphor. I sent soldiers to dig a grave for it, and asked the elderly and children to carry earth to build the tomb.
When the princes heard this, they all knew that the king despised people and valued horses.
King Zhuang said: "Has my fault reached this level?"


Chunk 4: 
original: 
为之柰何？
优孟曰： 请为大王六畜葬之。以垅灶为椁，铜历为棺，赍以姜枣，荐以木兰，祭以粮稻，衣以火光，葬之於人腹肠。
於是王乃使以马属太官，无令天下久闻也。
楚相孙叔敖知其贤人也，善待之。
病且死，属其子曰： 我死，汝必贫困。
若往见优孟，言我孙叔敖之子也。
居数年，其子穷困负薪，逢优孟，与言曰： 我，孙叔敖子也。
父且死时，属我贫困往见优孟。
优孟曰： 若无远有所之。
即为孙叔敖衣冠，抵掌谈语。岁馀，像孙叔敖，楚王及左右不能别也。
庄王置酒，优孟前为寿。
庄王大惊，以为孙叔敖复生也，欲以为相。
优孟曰： 请归与妇计之，三日而为相。
庄王许之。
三日后，优孟复来。
王曰： 妇言谓何？
孟曰： 妇言慎无为，楚相不足为也。
如孙叔敖之为楚相，尽忠为廉以治楚，楚王得以霸。
translation: 
What to do about it?
Umeng said: Please allow me to bury it in the same way as an animal: pile an earth stove on the ground as a set, use a large copper pot as a coffin, use ginger and dates to season, use spices to relieve the smell, use rice as a sacrifice, use fire as clothes, and bury it in the human belly.
So King Zhuang sent someone to give the horse to the eunuch in charge of the palace's meals, so that the people in the world would not spread the matter for a long time.
Sun Shuao, the prime minister of Chu, knew that Youmeng was a wise man and treated him well.
When Sun Shuao was seriously ill and about to die, he told his son: After I die, you will definitely be poor.
At that time, you go to see Youmeng and say that I am Sun Shuao's son.
A few years later, Sun Shuao's son was indeed so poor that he had to rely on firewood to survive. Once I met Youmeng on the road, he said to Youmeng: I am Sun Shuao's son.
Before my father died, he asked me to go see Youmeng when I was in poverty.
Youmeng said: Don't go far away.
So, he immediately sewed clothes and hats similar to Sun Shuao's and wore them, imitating Sun Shuao's speech, behavior, voice and smile.
After more than a year, he imitated Sun Shuao so much that even the officials around King Zhuang of Chu could not tell him apart.
King Zhuang of Chu held a banquet, and Youmeng came forward to toast and bless King Zhuang. King Zhuang was shocked, thinking that Sun Shuao had come back to life again, and wanted to make him Prime Minister of Chu.
Youmeng said: "Please allow me to go back and discuss this matter with my wife, and come back in three days to take up the post of Prime Minister of Chu."
King Zhuang agreed to him.
Three days later, Youmeng came to see King Zhuang again.
King Zhuang asked: What did your wife say?
Youmeng said: My wife told me not to do it. It is not worthy to be the prime minister of Chu State.
Like Sun Shuao, who was the prime minister of the Chu State and governed the Chu State with loyalty and integrity, the king of Chu was able to dominate.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
今死，其子无立锥之地，贫困负薪以自饮食。
必如孙叔敖，不如自杀。
因歌曰： 山居耕田苦，难以得食。
起而为吏，身贪鄙者馀财，不顾耻辱。
身死家室富，又恐受赇枉法，为奸触大罪，身死而家灭。
贪吏安可为也！
念为廉吏，奉法守职，竟死不敢为非。
廉吏安可为也！
楚相孙叔敖持廉至死，方今妻子穷困负薪而食，不足为也！
於是庄王谢优孟，乃召孙叔敖子，封之寝丘四百户，以奉其祀。
后十世不绝。
此知可以言时矣。
其后二百馀年，秦有优旃。
优旃者，秦倡侏儒也。
善为笑言，然合於大道，秦始皇时，置酒而天雨，陛楯者皆沾寒。
translation: 
Now that he is dead, his son has no place to stand and is so poor that he has to carry firewood to make a living every day.
If you want to be the prime minister of Chu like Sun Shuao, you might as well commit suicide.
Umeng then sang: Living in the mountains and fields, it is difficult to live in the fields and suffer hardships.
Those who go out to serve as officials, are themselves corrupt and despicable, accumulate excess wealth, and have no regard for their integrity.
After his death, although his family was wealthy, he was afraid of corruption, bending the law, doing illegal things, and committing serious crimes. He was killed and his family was also destroyed.
What can a corrupt official do?
I want to be an upright official, abide by the law, be loyal to my duties, and never dare to do anything illegal until my death.
Alas, what can an upright official do?
For example, Sun Shuao, Prime Minister of Chu, insisted on integrity throughout his life, but now his wife, children and children are so poor that they have to collect firewood for a living.
It’s really not worth being an upright official! So King Zhuang expressed his apology to You Meng, and immediately summoned Sun Shuao's son and granted him the city of Qiuqiu with 400 households for the purpose of worshiping Sun Shuao.
Since then, there has been no interruption for ten generations.
It can be said that Youmeng's intelligence was just right and he seized the opportunity to display it.
More than two hundred years after You Meng, Qin State gave birth to You Zhan.
Youzhan is a singing and dancing artist from the Qin State. He is very short.
He is good at telling jokes, but they all make sense. During the reign of Qin Shihuang, a banquet was held in the palace. It was raining, and the guards standing guard under the palace steps were all wet with rain and cold.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
优旃见而哀之，谓之曰： 汝欲休乎？
陛楯者皆曰： 幸甚。
优旃曰： 我即呼汝，汝疾应曰诺。
居有顷，殿上上寿呼万岁。
优旃临槛大呼曰： 陛楯郎！
郎曰： 诺。
优旃曰： 汝虽长，何益，幸雨立。
我虽短也，幸休居。
於是始皇使陛楯者得半相代。
始皇尝议欲大苑囿，东至函谷关，西至雍、陈仓。
优旃曰： 善。
多纵禽兽於其中，寇从东方来，令麋鹿触之足矣。
始皇以故辍止。
二世立，又欲漆其城。
优旃曰： 善。
主上虽无言，臣固将请之。
漆城虽於百姓愁费，然佳哉！
漆城荡荡，寇来不能上。
即欲就之，易为漆耳，顾难为廕室。
於是二世笑之，以其故止。
居无何，二世杀死，优旃归汉，数年而卒。
translation: 
When Youzhan saw them, he felt very sorry for them and said to them: "Do you want to rest?"
The guards all said: Very much so.
Youzhan said: If I call you, you must answer me quickly.
After a while, people in the palace toasted Qin Shihuang and shouted long live the emperor.
Youzhan approached the railing and shouted loudly: Guard!
The guard replied: Yes.
Youzhan said: Although you are tall, what good is it?
I was lucky enough to stand in the open air and get soaked in the rain. Although I am short, I am lucky enough to rest here.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang allowed the guards to reduce their duty by half and take over in turns.
Qin Shihuang once planned to expand the hunting area to Hangu Pass in the east and Yong County and Chencang in the west.
Youzhan said: OK.
Keep more animals inside. If the enemy invades from the east, it will be enough to let the elk use their horns to resist them.
After hearing this, Qin Shihuang stopped his plan to expand the hunting grounds.
Emperor Qin II came to the throne and wanted to paint the city walls with paint.
Youzhan said: OK.
Even if your Majesty did not say it, I would have asked you to do so.
Although the lacquered city wall brings sorrow and expense to the people, it is beautiful!
The walls were painted so slippery that enemies could not climb up even if they came.
To accomplish this, it is easy to paint, but what is difficult is to find a big house, put the painted city wall in it, and let it dry in the shade.
The second emperor laughed and canceled the plan.
Soon, the second emperor was killed, Youzhan surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and died a few years later.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
太史公曰：淳于髡仰天大笑，齐威王横行。
优孟摇头而歌，负薪者以封。
优旃临槛疾呼，陛楯得以半更。
岂不亦伟哉！
褚先生曰：臣幸得以经术为郎，而好读外家传语。
窃不逊让，复作故事滑稽之语六章，编之於左。
可以览观扬意，以示后世好事者读之，以游心骇耳，以附益上方太史公之三章。
武帝时有所幸倡郭舍人者，发言陈辞虽不合大道，然令人主和说。
武帝少时，东武侯母常养帝，帝壮时，号之曰 大乳母 。
率一月再朝。
朝奏入，有诏使幸臣马游卿以帛五十匹赐乳母，又奉饮Я飧养乳母。
乳母上书曰： 某所有公田，原得假倩之。
帝曰： 乳母欲得之乎？
以赐乳母。
乳母所言，未尝不听。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Chunyu Kun looked up to the sky and laughed, and King Wei of Qi followed his example throughout the world.
You Meng shook his head and sang, and those who carried firewood for a living were rewarded.
Youzhan leaned on the railing and shouted, so the guards holding shields under the palace steps were able to reduce their duty by half and take turns to rest.
Aren’t these all great and praiseworthy!
Mr. Chu Shaosun said: I am fortunate to be a doctor because I am proficient in Confucian classics. I also like to read historical biographies other than the Six Classics.
I couldn't be humble and conceding, so I wrote six more chapters of funny stories and compiled them at the back of Tai Shigong's original work.
It can be read and expanded, so that it can be passed on to future generations who are not afraid of troubles to read, so as to relax their minds and alert them to listen. It is specially attached to the back of the three funny stories of Tai Shigong above.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, there was a favored artist named Guo. Although his speeches were not reasonable, he could make the emperor feel happy after listening to them.
When Emperor Wu was young, the mother of Marquis Dongwu nursed him. When Emperor Wu grew up, he called her the "Big Wet Nurse".
I visit the DPRK about twice a month.
Every time the notification of entering the court was sent in, the imperial edict would send the favored minister Ma Youqing to reward the wet nurse with fifty pieces of silk and prepare food to support her.
The wet nurse wrote: There is a piece of public land somewhere, and I hope to lend it to me.
Emperor Wu said: "Does the wet nurse want it?"
So he gave her the public land.
The wet nurse did not listen to anything she said.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
有诏得令乳母乘车行驰道中。
当此之时，公卿大臣皆敬重乳母。
乳母家子孙奴从者横暴长安中，当道掣顿人车马，夺人衣服。
闻於中，不忍致之法。
有司请徙乳母家室，处之於边。
奏可。
乳母当入至前，面见辞。
乳母先见郭舍人，为下泣。
舍人曰： 即入见辞去，疾步数还顾。
乳母如其言，谢去，疾步数还顾。
郭舍人疾言骂之曰： 咄！
老女子！何不疾行！
陛下已壮矣，宁尚须汝乳而活邪？
尚何还顾！ 於是人主怜焉悲之，乃下诏止无徙乳母，罚谪谮之者。
武帝时，齐人有东方生名朔，以好古传书，爱经术，多所博观外家之语。
朔初入长安，至公车上书，凡用三千奏牍。
公车令两人共持举其书，仅然能胜之。
人主从上方读之，止，辄乙其处，读之二月乃尽。
translation: 
It was also decreed that the carriages used by wet nurses could travel on the imperial road.
At this time, all the ministers respected the wet nurse.
The slaves and descendants of the wet nurse's family ran rampant in Chang'an City, intercepting people's carriages and horses, and snatching other people's clothes.
When the news reached the court, Emperor Wu could not bear to use the law to punish the wet nurse.
The official in charge asked the wet nurse and her family to move to the border.
Emperor Wu approved it.
The wet nurse should enter the palace and say goodbye in front of Emperor Wu.
The wet nurse first met Guo Sheren and shed tears for this.
Guo Sheren said: Go in immediately to see and say goodbye, exit quickly, and turn around to see the emperor several times.
The wet nurse did as he asked. When she saw Emperor Wu to say goodbye, she quickly left and turned around to look at Emperor Wu.
Guo Sheren scolded the wet nurse loudly and said: Sigh!
Old lady, why don’t you leave quickly!
The emperor has grown up, does he have to wait for you to breastfeed him to survive? What are you looking at?
So Emperor Wu felt sorry for her and couldn't help but feel sad. He ordered to stop the move and not allow the wet nurse's family to be moved. He also punished those who spoke ill of the wet nurse.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, there was a man named Dongfang Shuo in Qi. Because he liked books handed down from ancient times and Confucian classics, he read extensively the books of hundreds of schools of thought.
When Dongfang Shuo first arrived in Chang'an, he went to Gongche Mansion to submit a letter to the emperor, using a total of three thousand wooden slips.
The bus office sent two people to carry his memorial together, and they were just able to lift it.
Emperor Wu was reading Dongfang Shuo's memorial in the palace. When he needed to stop reading, he made a mark there and read it for two months before finishing it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
诏拜以为郎，常在侧侍中。
数召至前谈语，人主未尝不说也。
时诏赐之食於前。
饭已，尽怀其馀肉持去，衣尽汙。
数赐缣帛，檐揭而去。
徒用所赐钱帛，取少妇於长安中好女。
率取妇一岁所者即弃去，更取妇。
所赐钱财尽索之於女子。
人主左右诸郎半呼之 狂人 。
人主闻之，曰： 令朔在事无为是行者，若等安能及之哉！
朔任其子为郎，又为侍谒者，常持节出使。
朔行殿中，郎谓之曰： 人皆以先生为狂。
朔曰： 如朔等，所谓避世於朝廷间者也。
古之人，乃避世於深山中。
时坐席中，酒酣，据地歌曰： 陆沈於俗，避世金马门。
宫殿中可以避世全身，何必深山之中，蒿庐之下。
金马门者，宦署门也，门傍有铜马，故谓之曰 金马门 。
时会聚宫下博士诸先生与论议，共难之曰： 苏秦、张仪一当万乘之主，而都卿相之位，泽及后世。
translation: 
Emperor Wu ordered Dongfang Shuo to be appointed Langguan, and he often served the emperor.
Emperor Wu was never unhappy when he was called to talk to him many times.
Emperor Wu often issued edicts to give him meals in front of the emperor.
After the meal, he put all the remaining meat in his arms and took it away, staining his clothes.
The emperor gave him silk and silk many times, but he always took it away, carrying it on his shoulder.
He used the money and silk given to him to marry a beautiful young woman from Chang'an city.
Most of them get married within a year and then abandon them to marry another one.
The money rewarded by the emperor was entirely spent on women.
Half of the emperor's courtiers called him "madman."
Emperor Wu heard this and said: If Dongfang Shuo didn't do these ridiculous things when he was an official, how could you compare to him?
Dongfang Shuo recommended his son to be a Langguan, and he was promoted to an emissary among the servants. He was often ordered to serve on envoys and go on official business.
One day Dongfang Shuo passed by the palace, and the officials said to him: "People think that Mr. Shuo is a madman."
Dongfang Shuo said: People like me are the so-called people who live in seclusion in the court.
People in ancient times lived in seclusion in the mountains.
He often sat at banquets, and when he drank to his heart's content, he would crawl on the ground and sing: Live in seclusion in the world, and hide from the world at the Golden Horse Gate.
Why live in seclusion in the mountains or in a hut when you can live in seclusion in the palace and protect yourself.
The so-called Golden Horse Gate is the gate of the eunuch's office. There is a bronze horse next to the gate, so it is called the Golden Horse Gate.
At that time, the imperial court convened the doctors and gentlemen in the academy to participate in the discussion. They all criticized Dongfang Shuo and said: Su Qin and Zhang Yi accidentally met the monarch of a big country, and they could occupy the position of prime minister, and their kindness would be passed down to future generations.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
今子大夫修先王之术，慕圣人之义，讽诵诗书百家之言，不可胜数。
著於竹帛，自以为海内无双，即可谓博闻辩智矣。
然悉力尽忠以事圣帝，旷日持久，积数十年，官不过侍郎，位不过执戟，意者尚有遗行邪？
其故何也？
东方生曰： 是固非子所能备也。
彼一时也，此一时也，岂可同哉！
夫张仪、苏秦之时，周室大坏，诸侯不朝，力政争权，相禽以兵，并为十二国，未有雌雄，得士者彊，失士者亡，故说听行通，身处尊位，泽及后世，子孙长荣。
今非然也。
圣帝在上，德流天下，诸侯宾服，威振四夷，连四海之外以为席，安於覆盂，天下平均，合为一家，动发举事，犹如运之掌中。
贤与不肖，何以异哉？
方今以天下之大，士民之众，竭精驰说，并进辐凑者，不可胜数。
悉力慕义，困於衣食，或失门户。
使张仪、苏秦与仆并生於今之世，曾不能得掌故，安敢望常侍侍郎乎！
传曰： 天下无害菑，虽有圣人，无所施其才；上下和同，虽有贤者，无所立功。
故曰时异则事异。
虽然，安可以不务修身乎？
translation: 
Now you, the old man, have studied the methods of the former kings in governing the country, admired the principles of the saints, and are familiar with the "Poems" and "Books" and the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought. I cannot give examples one by one.
There are also articles and writings, and they think that they are unparalleled in the world, so they can be said to be well-informed, intelligent and able to argue.
However, you have served the sage emperor with all your strength and loyalty for a long time and accumulated for decades. Your official title is only that of a minister and your position is that of a guard. It seems that you have not behaved well enough?
What is the reason for this?
Dongfang Shuo said: This is not something you can fully understand.
That was one era and now is another era. How can they be compared?
In the era of Zhang Yi and Su Qin, the Zhou Dynasty was in great decline. The princes did not go to court to see the emperor of Zhou. They used force to conquer power and invaded each other with military means. The world was merged into twelve vassal states, with equal power. Those who gained scholars became powerful, and those who lost scholars perished. Therefore, they listened to the advice of scholars, placed them in high positions, passed down their kindness to future generations, and their descendants enjoyed long-lasting glory.
Not so today.
The sage emperor is in charge of the government, his favor spreads all over the world, the princes submit and obey, and his power intimidates all directions. He connects the territories beyond the four seas into a paradise like a seat, which is more stable than an inverted bowl. The world is unified and integrated, and all actions are as easy as turning in the palm of the hand.
How to distinguish between virtuous and unvirtuous people?
Nowadays, because the world is vast and there are many scholars and people, they are trying their best to lobby, just like the spokes are gathered to the hub of a car, there are countless people who are competing to gather in the capital to offer suggestions to the court.
Although they try their best to uphold morality and justice, they are still trapped by food and clothing, and some even cannot find a way out.
If Zhang Yi, Su Qin and I were born in the same era, how could they dare to expect to be a regular minister if they couldn't even get a small official in charge of the old system and old rules?
Ancient books say: If there is no disaster in the world, even if there is a saint, there will be no place to display his talents; if the monarch and his ministers are in harmony, even if there is a wise man, there will be no place to build his achievements.
So, as times change, things will change accordingly.
Despite this, how can we not work hard to cultivate ourselves?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
诗曰： 鼓锺于宫，声闻于外。
鹤鸣九皋，声闻于天。 。
苟能修身，何患不荣！
太公躬行仁义七十二年，逢文王，得行其说，封於齐，七百岁而不绝。
此士之所以日夜孜孜，修学行道，不敢止也。
今世之处士，时虽不用，崛然独立，塊然独处，上观许由，下察接舆，策同范蠡，忠合子胥，天下和平，与义相扶，寡偶少徒，固其常也。
子何疑於余哉！
於是诸先生默然无以应也。
建章宫后閤重栎中有物出焉，其状似麋。
以闻，武帝往临视之。
问左右群臣习事通经术者，莫能知。
诏东方朔视之。
朔曰： 臣知之，原赐美酒粱饭大飧臣，臣乃言。 诏曰： 可。
已又曰： 某所有公田鱼池蒲苇数顷，陛下以赐臣，臣朔乃言。
诏曰： 可。
translation: 
"Poetry" says: If you ring a bell in the palace, the sound can be heard outside.
Cranes chirp far away in the depths of the swamp, and the sound can be heard in the sky.
If you can cultivate yourself, why worry about not getting glory!
Taigong of Qi personally practiced benevolence and righteousness for seventy-two years. Only when he met King Wen of Zhou did he implement his ideas and enfeoffed him in the state of Qi. The influence of his thoughts has been passed down for seven hundred years without being extinguished.
This is the reason why scholars work tirelessly day and night to study knowledge and implement their own ideas without daring to stop.
The hermits in the world today, although they are not employed for a while, can be detached and self-reliant, living alone, looking at Xu You from a distance, and Jie Yu at close range. They are as resourceful as Fan Li, and their loyalty is comparable to Wu Zixu.
Why do you have doubts about me?
So the gentlemen were silent and had no words to answer.
An animal ran out from the double railings of the back pavilion of Jianzhang Palace. It was shaped like an elk.
The news reached the palace, and Emperor Wu personally went there to watch.
When I asked the officials around me who were familiar with things and well versed in classics, no one could tell what kind of animal it was.
An edict was issued to ask Dongfang Shuo to come and see it.
Dongfang Shuo said: I know this thing, please give me good wine and food so that I can have a full meal, then I will say it. Emperor Wu said: Yes.
After dinner, Dongfang Shuo said again: There are several hectares of public land, fish ponds and reed ponds somewhere. Your Majesty rewarded me, so I will tell you.
Emperor Wu said: Yes.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
於是朔乃肯言，曰： 所谓驺牙者也。
远方当来归义，而驺牙先见。
其齿前后若一，齐等无牙，故谓之驺牙。
其后一岁所，匈奴混邪王果将十万众来降汉。
乃复赐东方生钱财甚多。
至老，朔且死时，谏曰： 诗云 营营青蝇，止于蕃。
恺悌君子，无信谗言。
谗言罔极，交乱四国 。
原陛下远巧佞，退谗言。
帝曰： 今顾东方朔多善言？
怪之。
居无几何，朔果病死。
传曰： 鸟之将死，其鸣也哀；人之将死，其言也善。
此之谓也。
武帝时，大将军卫青者，卫后兄也，封为长平侯。
从军击匈奴，至余吾水上而还，斩首捕虏，有功来归，诏赐金千斤。
translation: 
Then Dongfang Shuo was willing to say: This is an animal called Zou Ya.
There should be people coming to surrender from far away, so Zou Ya appears first.
Its teeth are the same from front to back and are equal in size without big teeth, so it is called Zou fang.
About a year later, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu came and surrendered to the Han Dynasty with 100,000 people.
Emperor Wu then rewarded Dongfang Shuo with a lot of money. In old age.
When Dongfang Shuo was dying, he advised Emperor Wu: "The Book of Songs" says that flies flying around will fall on the fence.
Kind and kind gentleman, don't listen to slander.
There is no end to the slander, and there is no peace for neighboring countries on all sides.
I hope that your Majesty will stay away from those who flatter people with clever words and rebuke their slander.
Emperor Wu said: Why do Dongfang Shuo mostly make good remarks today?
Be amazed by this.
Soon after, Dongfang Shuo died of illness.
Ancient books say: When a bird is dying, its cry is particularly sad; when a person is dying, its words are very kind.
That's what I mean.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, General Wei Qing was the elder brother of Queen Wei and was granted the title of Marquis of Changping.
He led the army to attack the Xiongnu and chased them to the Yuwu River before returning. He killed a large number of enemy soldiers and captured many prisoners. He made great achievements in battle and returned victorious. Emperor Wu ordered a reward of a thousand catties of gold.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
将军出宫门，齐人东郭先生以方士待诏公车，当道遮卫将军车，拜谒曰： 原白事。
将军止车前，东郭先生旁车言曰： 王夫人新得幸於上，家贫。
今将军得金千斤，诚以其半赐王夫人之亲，人主闻之必喜。
此所谓奇策便计也。
卫将军谢之曰： 先生幸告之以便计，请奉教。
於是卫将军乃以五百金为王夫人之亲寿。
王夫人以闻武帝。
帝曰： 大将军不知为此。
问之安所受计策，对曰： 受之待诏者东郭先生。
诏召东郭先生，拜以为郡都尉。
东郭先生久待诏公车，贫困饥寒，衣敝，履不完。
行雪中，履有上无下，足尽践地。
道中人笑之，东郭先生应之曰： 谁能履行雪中，令人视之，其上履也，其履下处乃似人足者乎？
及其拜为二千石，佩青緺出宫门，行谢主人。故所以同官待诏者，等比祖道於都门外。
translation: 
When the general came out of the palace gate, Mr. Dong Guo, a native of Qi, was waiting at the carriage house as an alchemist. He stopped General Wei's carriage and horse on the road, paid homage and said: "I have something to report to the general."
General Wei stopped in front of the car, and Mr. Dong Guo said beside the car: Mrs. Wang has recently been favored by the emperor, and her family is poor.
Now that the general has received a thousand catties of gold, if he uses half of it to give to Mrs. Wang's parents, the emperor will be very happy to know it.
This is what is called a clever and convenient strategy.
General Wei thanked him and said: Fortunately, sir, you told me this convenient strategy. I will definitely follow the advice.
So General Wei used five hundred kilograms of gold as a gift to Mrs. Wang's parents.
Mrs. Wang told Emperor Wu about this.
Emperor Wu said: The general does not know how to do this.
When Wei Qing was asked where he got the strategy, he replied: "I got it from Mr. Dongguo who was on duty."
So he ordered Mr. Dongguo to be summoned and appointed him as the county captain.
Mr. Dongguo has been waiting for work at the bus station for a long time. He is poor, hungry and cold. His clothes are shabby and his shoes are not intact.
When walking in the snow, the shoes have sides but no soles, and the feet are all on the ground.
The passers-by laughed at him, and Mr. Dongguo answered them: Who can wear shoes and walk in the snow, and let people see that the top of the shoe is a shoe, and the bottom of the shoe looks like a human foot?
When he was appointed as an official with a salary of two thousand dan, wore a green ribbon, walked out of the palace gate to say goodbye to his master, all those who had been waiting with him in the past came to bid farewell to him in batches on the outskirts of the capital.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
荣华道路，立名当世。
此所谓衣褐怀宝者也。
当其贫困时，人莫省视；至其贵也，乃争附之。
谚曰： 相马失之瘦，相士失之贫。
其此之谓邪？
王夫人病甚，人主至自往问之曰： 子当为王，欲安所置之？
对曰： 原居洛阳。
人主曰： 不可。
洛阳有武库、敖仓，当关口，天下咽喉。
自先帝以来，传不为置王。
然关东国莫大於齐，可以为齐王。
王夫人以手击头，呼 幸甚 。
王夫人死，号曰 齐王太后薨 。
昔者，齐王使淳于髡献鹄於楚。
出邑门，道飞其鹄，徒揭空笼，造诈成辞，往见楚王曰： 齐王使臣来献鹄，过於水上，不忍鹄之渴，出而饮之，去我飞亡。
吾欲刺腹绞颈而死。恐人之议吾王以鸟兽之故令士自伤杀也。
鹄，毛物，多相类者，吾欲买而代之，是不信而欺吾王也。
translation: 
Glorious and glorious all the way, famous in the contemporary era.
This is what is called a man wearing coarse clothes but carrying a treasure in his arms.
When he was poor, everyone ignored him; when he became famous, everyone rushed to depend on him.
As the saying goes: A fortune teller misses a good horse because of his skinny appearance, and a fortune teller misses a talented person because of his poor appearance.
Is this the scenario you are talking about?
Mrs. Wang was seriously ill, and the emperor visited her in person and asked her: Your son should be crowned king. Where do you want to crown him?
He replied: I hope to be sealed in Luoyang.
The emperor said: No.
Luoyang has arsenals, large granaries, and is located at a transportation junction. It is the choke point of the world.
Since the late emperor, it is said that no king has been granted the title of king in Luoyang.
However, none of the feudal states in the Guandong area is larger than Qi, so he can be crowned King of Qi.
Mrs. Wang patted her head with her hands and exclaimed: So lucky.
After the death of Mrs. Wang, it was called the death of the Queen Mother of Qi.
Once upon a time, the King of Qi sent Chunyu Kun to the State of Chu to offer yellow swans.
After leaving the capital gate, the yellow swan flew away on the way. He had no choice but to hold the empty cage, fabricate a lie, and go to see the king of Chu, saying: The king of Qi sent me to offer the yellow swan. When he passed by the water, he couldn't bear the yellow swan to dry up, so he let it drink water. Unexpectedly, it left me and flew away.
I want to stab the abdomen or strangle the neck to death, but I am also worried that others will criticize the king for causing the scholars to commit suicide because of birds and beasts.
Yellow swans are feathered things that are very similar. I want to buy a similar one to replace it. This is dishonest and deceives the king.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
欲赴佗国奔亡，痛吾两主使不通。
故来服过，叩头受罪大王。
楚王曰： 善，齐王有信士若此哉！
厚赐之，财倍鹄在也。
武帝时，徵北海太守诣行在所。
有文学卒史王先生者，自请与太守俱， 吾有益於君 ，君许之。
诸府掾功曹白云： 王先生嗜酒，多言少实，恐不可与俱。
太守曰： 先生意欲行，不可逆。
遂与俱。
行至宫下，待诏宫府门。
王先生徒怀钱沽酒，与卫卒仆射饮，日醉，不视其太守。
太守入跪拜。
王先生谓户郎曰： 幸为我呼吾君至门内遥语。
户郎为呼太守。
太守来，望见王先生。
王先生曰： 天子即问君何以治北海令无盗贼，君对曰何哉？
对曰： 选择贤材，各任之以其能，赏异等，罚不肖。
王先生曰： 对如是，是自誉自伐功，不可也。
translation: 
He wanted to flee to other countries, but he was also sad that the communication between the monarchs of Qi and Chu was cut off.
So I came to plead guilty, kowtow to the king, and ask for punishment.
The king of Chu said: "It's great that the king of Qi has such a loyal person."
He rewarded Chunyu Kun with generous gifts, and his wealth was twice as much as that offered to Huang Hu.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the prefect of Beihai County was summoned to the emperor's palace.
Mr. Wang, a government official in charge of documents, took the initiative to ask to go with the prefect, saying: I will be good to you.
The prefect agreed to him. Many officials and meritorious officials in the prefecture reported: Mr. Wang likes to drink, talks a lot, and is less practical. I'm afraid he is not suitable for traveling together.
The prefect said: Mr. Wang wants to go, so it is not good to go against his wishes.
So he went with him.
Come to the palace gate and wait for orders at the palace gate.
Mr. Wang only took money to buy wine and drank with the captain of the guard. He was drunk all day long and did not visit the prefect.
The prefect entered the palace to pay homage to the emperor.
Mr. Wang said to the gatekeeper: Please call our prefect to come to the palace gate for me and speak to him from a distance.
The gatekeeper went to call the prefect on his behalf.
The prefect came out and saw Mr. Wang.
Mr. Wang said: If the emperor asked you how to govern Beihai County so that there are no thieves there, what would you answer?
The prefect replied: Choose talented people and appoint them according to their abilities. Reward those with outstanding talents and punish those who are not motivated.
Mr. Wang said: This kind of response is to praise yourself and show off your achievements, which is not acceptable.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
原君对言，非臣之力，尽陛下神灵威武所变化也。 太守曰： 诺。
召入，至于殿下，有诏问之曰： 何於治北海，令盗贼不起？
叩头对言： 非臣之力，尽陛下神灵威武之所变化也。
武帝大笑，曰： 於呼！
安得长者之语而称之！
安所受之？
对曰： 受之文学卒史。
帝曰： 今安在？
对曰： 在宫府门外。
有诏召拜王先生为水衡丞，以北海太守为水衡都尉。
传曰： 美言可以市，尊行可以加人。
君子相送以言，小人相送以财。
魏文侯时，西门豹为鄴令。
豹往到鄴，会长老，问之民所疾苦。
长老曰： 苦为河伯娶妇，以故贫。
豹问其故，对曰： 鄴三老、廷掾常岁赋敛百姓，收取其钱得数百万，用其二三十万为河伯娶妇，与祝巫共分其馀钱持归。
translation: 
I hope you will answer: It is not the power of the minister, but the effect of the majesty of the gods. The prefect said: OK.
The prefect was summoned into the palace and walked up to His Highness. He received an edict and asked him: "How do you govern Beihai County so that thieves do not dare to appear?"
The prefect kowtowed and replied: This is not the power of the minister, but entirely the result of the majesty of your majesty.
Emperor Wu laughed and said: Ah!
Where can I learn the words of the elders and praise them?
Where did you hear it?
The prefect replied: "It was taught by Literary Master Shi."
Emperor Wu said: Where is he now?
The prefect replied: Outside the palace gate.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to summon Mr. Wang and appointed him as Shuiheng Cheng, and Beihai Prefect as Shuiheng Duwei.
An ancient book says: Beautiful words can betray you, and noble conduct can make you superhuman.
Gentlemen give gifts with kind words, while villains give gifts with money.
During the reign of Wei Wenhou, Ximen Bao served as the magistrate of Ye County.
Ximen Bao arrived in Ye County and summoned senior and famous people to ask about the painful things among the people.
Those people replied: It is hard to find a wife for the river god, and for this reason he is poor.
Ximen Bao asked the reason and replied: The three elders and court officials in Yedi collected taxes from the people all the year round, and collected millions of their money. They used two to three hundred thousand to find a wife for the river god, and then divided the remaining money with the temple blessings and witches and took them home.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
当其时，巫行视小家女好者，云是当为河伯妇，即娉取。
洗沐之，为治新缯绮縠衣，间居斋戒；为治斋宫河上，张缇绛帷，女居其中。
为具牛酒饭食，十馀日。
共粉饰之，如嫁女床席，令女居其上，浮之河中。
始浮，行数十里乃没。
其人家有好女者，恐大巫祝为河伯取之，以故多持女远逃亡。
以故城中益空无人，又困贫，所从来久远矣。
民人俗语曰 即不为河伯娶妇，水来漂没，溺其人民 云。
西门豹曰： 至为河伯娶妇时，原三老、巫祝、父老送女河上，幸来告语之，吾亦往送女。
皆曰： 诺。
至其时，西门豹往会之河上。
三老、官属、豪长者、里父老皆会，以人民往观之者三二千人。
其巫，老女子也，已年七十。
translation: 
During that period, the witch patrolled around and when she saw a beautiful daughter from a poor family, she said that she should be the daughter-in-law of the river god, and immediately gave a betrothal gift to marry her off.
He bathed her, sewed new silk clothes for her, lived alone, cultivated her character, and built a house for her by the river, hung up a thick red silk tent, and let the girl live in it.
He also slaughtered cows to make wine and prepared meals for her, which lasted for more than ten days.
When the time comes, everyone will decorate the floating equipment together, like a bed tent and pillow mat for a married daughter, let the girl sit on it, and let it float in the river.
It floated on the water at first, then sank after drifting for dozens of miles.
Families with beautiful women were afraid that the big witch would marry their daughters for the river god, so most of them took their daughters and fled far away.
So the city is becoming more and more empty, with fewer and fewer people and more poverty. This has been the case for a long time.
As the folk saying goes: If you don't marry the river god, the river will flood your fields and drown the people.
Ximen Bao said: When it is time to marry the River God, please invite the three elders, witches and elders to go to the river to see off the bride. You also want to come and tell me that I am going to see off the bride too.
Everyone said: Yes.
On that day, Ximen Bao went to the river to meet everyone.
The three elders, officials, gentry and fathers from the countryside all arrived, together with the people watching, a total of two to three thousand people.
The big witch was an old woman, seventy years old.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
从弟子女十人所，皆衣缯单衣，立大巫后。
西门豹曰： 呼河伯妇来，视其好丑。
即将女出帷中，来至前。
豹视之，顾谓三老、巫祝、父老曰： 是女子不好，烦大巫妪为入报河伯，得更求好女，后日送之。
即使吏卒共抱大巫妪投之河中。
有顷，曰： 巫妪何久也？
弟子趣之！
复以弟子一人投河中。
有顷，曰： 弟子何久也？
复使一人趣之！
复投一弟子河中。
凡投三弟子。
西门豹曰： 巫妪弟子是女子也，不能白事，烦三老为入白之。
复投三老河中。
西门豹簪笔磬折，乡河立待良久。
长老、吏傍观者皆惊恐。
西门豹顾曰： 巫妪、三老不来还，柰之何？
欲复使廷掾与豪长者一人入趣之。
皆叩头，叩头且破，额血流地，色如死灰。
西门豹曰： 诺，且留待之须臾。
须臾，豹曰： 廷掾起矣。
状河伯留客之久，若皆罢去归矣。
鄴吏民大惊恐，从是以后，不敢复言为河伯娶妇。
西门豹即发民凿十二渠，引河水灌民田，田皆溉。
translation: 
There were more than a dozen female disciples accompanying her, all wearing silk single clothes, standing behind the big witch.
Ximen Bao said: Call the wife of the river god to come over and see if she is beautiful.
The witches helped the bride out of the tent and came to Simon Leopard.
Ximen Leopard looked at it, then turned around and said to the three elders, the temple priest, the witch and the elders: This girl is not beautiful. I asked the big witch to go to the river and tell the river god that a beautiful girl needs to be replaced. She will be sent the day after tomorrow.
Let the soldiers pick up the big witch and throw her into the river.
After a while, Ximen Bao said: "Why has the big witch not come back after being gone for so long?"
The apprentice went to urge her.
Another disciple was thrown into the river.
After a while, he said again: "Why did my apprentice not come back for so long?"
Send another person to urge them!
Another disciple was thrown into the river.
A total of three apprentices were thrown into the river.
Ximen Leopard said: The witch and the apprentice are women and cannot report the matter. Please help me go in and report the matter to the river god.
Then he threw the three elders into the river.
Ximen Leopard stood with a pen on his head, bent over, facing the river and waited for a long time.
Elders, officials and onlookers were all very frightened.
Ximen Bao turned around and said, "What should I do if the witch and the three elders don't come back?"
I want to send Ting Yu and a wealthy gentleman in to urge them.
Ting Yu and the noble gentry all knelt on the ground and kowtowed, their heads were smashed, blood was flowing on the ground, and their faces were ashen.
Ximen Bao said: Well, wait for a while.
After staying for a while, Ximen Bao said: "Let's get up."
It depends on the situation. The river god has been a guest for too long. You all should leave here and go home.
The officials and people in Ye County were very afraid. From now on, they did not dare to marry the river god again.
Ximen Bao enlisted the people to dig twelve channels to divert water from the Zhang River to irrigate the farmland, and all the farmland was irrigated.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
当其时，民治渠少烦苦，不欲也。
豹曰： 民可以乐成，不可与虑始。
今父老子弟虽患苦我，然百岁后期令父老子孙思我言。
至今皆得水利，民人以给足富。
十二渠经绝驰道，到汉之立，而长吏以为十二渠桥绝驰道，相比近，不可。
欲合渠水，且至驰道合三渠为一桥。
鄴民人父老不肯听长吏，以为西门君所为也，贤君之法式不可更也。
长吏终听置之。
故西门豹为鄴令，名闻天下，泽流后世，无绝已时，几可谓非贤大夫哉！
传曰： 子产治郑，民不能欺；子贱治单父，民不忍欺；西门豹治鄴，民不敢欺。
三子之才能谁最贤哉？
辨治者当能别之。
translation: 
When digging canals, it is somewhat laborious for the common people to dig canals, and they are not very willing to do it.
Ximen Bao said: The people can enjoy their success with them, but they cannot plan to start a career with them.
Although my fathers and sons now think that I have brought hardship to them, a hundred years from now, I hope that my fathers and sons will think about what I said again.
Until now, the people there have benefited from the river water, and the people have become rich.
Twelve canals cross the imperial road. When the Han Dynasty was established, local officials believed that the bridges on the twelve canals cut off the imperial road and were very close to each other.
I want to merge the canals and merge the three canals into one section that flows through the Royal Road, and only build one bridge.
The people in Ye refused to listen to the opinions of local officials, believing that those channels were planned and dug by Mr. Ximen, and the laws and regulations of the virtuous chief could not be changed.
The local governor finally listened to everyone's opinions and gave up the plan to merge the canals.
Therefore, as Ximen Bao is the magistrate of Ye County, he is famous all over the world, and his kindness is passed down to future generations. Can we say that he is not a virtuous doctor?
Ancient books say: When Zi Chan governs the state of Zheng, the people cannot deceive him; when the son governs Shan father, the people cannot bear to deceive him; when Ximen Bao governs Ye County, the people dare not deceive him.
Who among the three of them has the best talents?
Those who study governance will be able to tell the difference.


