Chunk 0: 
original: 
严安者，临菑人也。
以故丞相史上书，曰：
臣闻《邹子》曰： 政教文质者，所以云救也，当时则用，过则舍之，有易则易之，故守一而不变者，未睹治之至也。
今天下人民用财侈靡，车马衣裘宫室皆竞修饰，调五声使有节族，杂五色使有文章，重五味方丈于前，以观欲天下。
彼民之情，见美则愿之，是教民以侈也。
侈而无节，则不可赡，民离本而徼末矣。
未不可徒得，故搢绅者不惮为诈，带剑者夸杀人以矫夺，而世不知愧，故奸轨浸长。
夫佳丽珍怪固顺于耳目，故养失而泰，乐失而淫，礼失而采，教失而伪。
伪、采、淫、泰，非所以范民之道也。
translation: 
Yan An is from Linmiao.
As the late Prime Minister Shi, he wrote a letter saying:
"Zou Zi" among the ministers said: Political decrees and education have the characteristics of the times and are used to rectify current ills. Use them if they are in line with the social reality at that time, discard them when they are outdated, and change them if they should be changed. Therefore, adhering to certain political decrees and education without changing them is not seeing the importance of politics.
Nowadays, the wealthy people in the world use their property excessively and extravagantly. They decorate their carriages, horses, clothes, and palaces. They adjust the five sounds of palace, shang, horn, zheng, and yu to make them advance, stop, and restrain. They mix the five colors of green, red, yellow, white, and black to make them elegant. They harmonize the five flavors and display them in front of the abbot. They show off and show that they want to be envied by everyone in the world.
Those people's taste is to enjoy good things when they see them. This is using luxury to educate the people.
Luxury without restraint will lead to dissatisfaction, and people will deviate from their original karma and pursue their last karma.
The huge profits from the last industry cannot be obtained in vain, so officials are not afraid of breaking the law and extorting money, and warriors with swords compete to kill people, cheat and plunder, but the people of the world do not know shame, so treacherous and evil behaviors gradually grow.
Beautiful and rare things are originally beautiful to look at and pleasant to listen to, so if you lose your cultivation, you will become arrogant; if you don’t have healthy music, you will become immoral; if you lose etiquette and justice, you will be literal; if you give up education, you will become hypocritical.
Treachery, deceit, excess, lewdness, and arrogance—these are all behaviors that cannot be used to legislate and educate the people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
是以天下人民逐利无已，犯法者众。
臣愿为民制度以防其淫，使贫富不相耀以和其心。
心既和平，其性恬安。
恬安不营，则盗贼销，盗贼销，则刑罚少；刑罚少，则阴阳和，四时正，风雨时，草木畅茂，五谷蕃孰，六畜遂字，民不夭厉，和之至也。
臣闻周有天下，其治三百余岁，成、康其隆也，刑错四十余年而不用。
及其衰，亦三百余年，故五伯更起。
伯者，常佐天子兴利除害，诛暴禁邪，匡正海内，以尊天子。
五伯既没，贤圣莫续，天子孤弱，号令不行。
诸侯恣行，强陵弱，众暴寡。
translation: 
Therefore, the pursuit of fame and fortune by the people of the world will not stop, and there will definitely be many people who break the law and cause chaos.
The minister hopes to establish laws and regulations for the people to prevent them from being extravagant, so that the rich and the poor will no longer show off to each other, and to alleviate people's envy of luxury.
Their thoughts have become mellow, and their temperaments will become peaceful and comfortable.
If the temperament is quiet and comfortable and does not engage in personal gain, thieves will disappear; if thieves are eliminated, punishments will be reduced; if punishments are reduced, yin and yang will be harmonious, the four seasons will be correct, wind and rain will be timely, vegetation will be luxuriant, grains will be plentiful, livestock will multiply, the people will be disease-free, and harmony will be at its peak.
I heard that the Zhou Dynasty ruled the world for more than three hundred years. The two dynasties of King Cheng and King Kang were prosperous, and the punishments were not used for more than forty years.
It took more than three hundred years for the Zhou Dynasty to decline, so the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period emerged one after another.
The overlord is one who always assists the emperor in promoting benefits and eliminating harm, punishing violence and prohibiting evil, and promoting righteousness at home, and uses these to respect the emperor.
After the death of the Five Hegemons, there was no wise king or saint to inherit their cause, and the emperor was isolated and weak, unable to give orders.
The princes acted arbitrarily, using the strong to bully the weak, and the many to bully the few.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
田常篡齐，六卿分晋，并为战国，此民之始苦也。
于是强国务攻，弱国修守，合从连衡，驰车毂击，介胄生虮虱，民无所告诉。
及至秦王，蚕食天下，并吞战国，称号皇帝，一海内之政，坏诸侯之城。
销其兵，铸以为钟虡，示不复用。
元元黎民得免于战国，逢明天子，人人自以为更生。
乡使秦缓刑罚，薄赋敛，省繇役，贵仁义，贱权利，上笃厚，下佞巧，变风易俗，化于海内，则世世必安矣。
秦不行是风，循其故俗，为知巧权利者进，笃厚忠正者退，法严令苛，谄谀者众，日闻其美，意广心逸。
translation: 
Tian Chang usurped the power of the Qi State, and Zhi, Fan, Zhongxing, Han, Tang, and Wei Liuqing divided the power of the Jin State, and they all became warlike countries. This was the beginning of the people's hardship.
At this time, the strong countries are committed to attacking, while the weak countries are repairing their defenses and joining forces vertically and horizontally. Envoys, chariots and horses are galloping and colliding with each other. The soldiers' armor is covered with lice, and the common people have nowhere to complain.
When the King of Qin won the government, he encroached on the world and annexed other countries. He was named "Emperor", unified the domestic decrees, and demolished the castles of the princes.
The captured weapons were destroyed and made into bells, indicating that they would no longer be used.
The common people were spared the pain of the turmoil of the Warring States Period, and everyone thought that they had met the wise emperor and gained a new life.
If the Qin Dynasty had leniently suspended punishments, lightened taxes and levies, eliminated corvees, valued benevolence and righteousness, despised power, advocated loyalty, despised sycophancy, changed customs, and promoted enlightenment at home, then the Qin Dynasty would have had peace from generation to generation.
The Qin Dynasty did not advocate the promotion of such social customs, but continued its old customs. Those who played with cleverness and power were promoted, and those who were honest, loyal, and upright were dismissed. The laws were harsh, the decrees were harsh, and there were many flatterers. The emperor listened to their sweet words and praises every day, and he was full of ambitions and fantasies.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
欲威海外，使蒙恬将兵以北攻强胡，辟地进境，戍于北河，飞刍挽粟以随其后。
又使尉屠睢将楼船之士攻越，使监禄凿渠运粮，深入越地，越人遁逃。
旷日持久，粮食乏绝，越人击之，秦兵大败。
秦乃使尉佗将卒以戍越。当是时，秦祸北构于胡，南挂于越，宿兵于无用之地，进而不得退。
行十余年，丁男被甲，丁女转输，苦不聊生，自经于道树，死者相望。
及秦皇帝崩，天下大畔。
陈胜、吴广举陈，武臣、张耳举赵，项梁举吴，田儋举齐，景驹举郢，周市举魏，韩广举燕，穷山通谷，豪士并起，不可胜载也。
然本皆非公侯之后，非长官之吏，无尺寸之势，起闾巷，杖棘矜，应时而动，不谋而俱起，不约而同会，壤长地进，至乎伯王，时教使然也。
秦贵为天子，富有天下，灭世绝祀，穷兵之祸也。
故周失之弱，秦失之强，不变之患也。
今徇南夷，朝夜郎，降羌僰，略薉州，建城邑，深入匈奴，燔其龙城，议者美之。
translation: 
Wanting to show off his power overseas, he sent Meng Tian to lead troops to attack the Xiongnu in the north, expand the territory, and guard Beihe. He ordered the people to quickly transport grain and fodder to follow the army.
He also sent the commander-in-chief Tu Sui to lead the soldiers of the building boats to attack Baiyue, and sent the censor Lu Shilu to dig the Ling Canal to transport grain, and went deeper into the country, and more people fled.
The war lasted for a long time and the food supply was insufficient. The Yue people launched an attack and the Qin army was defeated.
The Qin Dynasty then sent Wei Tuo to lead troops to garrison the territory of Yue. At that time, the Qin Dynasty's troubles were that the north was resentful of the Xiongnu and the south was enmity with the Yue people. The troops were stationed in useless places and could not retreat when they advanced.
More than ten years passed like this, with the male serving as a soldier and the female transporting. They were miserable and hanged themselves on a tree by the roadside, looking at each other.
When Qin Shihuang died, the world was in rebellion.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang captured Chen, Wu Chen and Zhang Er captured Zhao, Xiang Liang defeated Wu, Tian Dan captured Qi, Jing Ju went to Ying, Zhou Shi fell to Wei, Han Guang raised Yan, and the mountains were full of heroes, which is unforgettable.
However, these people are not the descendants of princes, nor are they local governors. They have no power at all. They started in Yanxiang, holding the handles of spears and halberds. They followed the trend of the times, started troubles at the right time, gathered together by chance, attacked cities and plundered lands, and finally became kings. This was the result of the education at that time.
The emperor of the Qin Dynasty was regarded as the Son of Heaven, rich in the world, and his lineage was exterminated and sacrifices were cut off. This was a disaster caused by military violence.
Therefore, the fault of the Zhou Dynasty was that it was weak, and the fault of the Qin Dynasty was that it was strong. Both of them were unable to adapt to the times, which led to the disaster of national destruction.
Now the Han court wants to appease the Nanyi, send Yelang to come to the court, surrender Qiang Fen and Lingzhou, and build cities there. It also wants to penetrate deeply into the Xiongnu and burn their dragon city. The discussants praise these plans.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
此人臣之利，非天下之长策也。
今中国无狗吠之警，而外累于远方之备，靡敝国家，非所以子民也。
行无穷之欲，甘心快意，结怨于匈奴，非所以安边也。
祸挐而不解，兵休而复起，近者愁苦，远者惊骇，非所以持久也。
今天下锻甲摩剑，矫箭控弦，转输军粮，未见休时，此天下所共忧也。
夫兵久而变起，事烦而虑生。
今外郡之地或几千里，列城数十，形束壤制，带胁诸侯，非宗室之利也。
上观齐、晋所以亡，公室卑削，六卿大盛也；下览秦之所以灭，刑严文刻，欲大无穷也。
今郡守之权非特六卿之重也，地几千里非特闾巷之资也，甲兵器械非特棘矜之用也，以逢万世之变，则不可胜讳也。
后以安为骑马令。
translation: 
This is the selfish desire of ministers and is not a long-term strategy for governing the world.
Now China doesn't even have a dog barking alarm, but it is implicated in foreign defenses, causing the country to wither and decline. This is not the way to nurture the people.
In order to realize the endless desires, just to be happy and to have grudges with the Huns, this is not a way to stabilize the border.
If the scourge is not resolved, the war will cease and then be provoked again, causing sorrow to those nearby and fear to those far away. This is not a lasting solution.
Nowadays, people all over the world have to forge armor, sharpen swords, straighten arrowheads, draw bowstrings, and transport military supplies. There is no end in sight. This is a common worry for everyone.
Using troops for too long will cause chaos, and too many things will cause people to doubt.
Nowadays, the land of foreign counties is nearly a thousand miles long, with dozens of cities connected. The mountains and rivers are enough to threaten the people in the counties and threaten the nearby princes. This is not the interest of the Han Dynasty clan.
The reason for the demise of Qi and Jin is that the imperial family is weak and the six ministers are too strong; the reason for the fall of Qin is that the punishments are harsh and the law is cruel, and the desires are too great and inexhaustible.
Now, the power held by the county governor is not as heavy as that of the six ministers of the Jin Dynasty; the land is thousands of miles away, and it is not just the lanes; the armor and weapons are not just as useful as spears and halberds. With these favorable conditions, if there is a world chaos, what situation will happen cannot be concealed.
Later, Yan An was appointed as the riding order.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
终军字子云，济南人也。
少好学，以辩博能属文闻于郡中。
年十八，选为博士弟子。
至府受遣，太守闻其有异材，召见军。甚奇之，与交结。
军揖太守而去，至长安上书言事。武帝异其文，拜军为谒者给事中。
从上幸雍祠五畤，获白麟，一角而五蹄。
时又得奇木，其枝旁出，辄复合于木上。
上异此二物，博谋群臣。
军上对曰：
臣闻《诗》颂君德，《乐》舞后功，异经而同指，明盛德之所隆也。
南越窜屏葭苇，与鸟鱼群，正朔不及其俗。
有司临境，而东瓯内附，闽王伏辜，南越赖救。
translation: 
Zhongjun, named Ziyun, was from Jinan County.
He was fond of learning when he was young, and was famous in the county for his eloquence and writing of articles.
At the age of eighteen, he was elected as a doctoral disciple.
He was selected to send him to the capital. When he reported to the prefect's mansion, the prefect heard that he had outstanding talents and summoned him. He thought he was very strange and became friends with him.
Zhongjun bid farewell to the prefect and went to Beijing. He went to Chang'an to write a letter to express his opinions. After reading it, Emperor Wu thought that his writing was unusual, so he appointed Zhongjun as his emissary to the emperor.
The final army followed Emperor Wu to Yong County to worship Wuzhi. Emperor Wu captured a white unicorn with one horn and five legs.
At that time, I discovered a strange tree. Its branches stretched out to the side, and then bent over to attach to the tree.
Emperor Wu felt that these two animals and plants were very strange, and asked the officials extensively what they thought of them.
Zhongjun wrote a letter and replied:
I heard that the "Book of Songs" praises the virtues of the monarch, and the "Book of Music" praises the achievements of the emperor. The scriptures are different but have the same purpose. They all show the prosperity of great virtue.
The South Vietnamese fled and hid in the reeds, keeping company with birds and fish. The education of the Han Dynasty had no influence on their customs.
Relevant officials led troops to garrison at the border, Shu Ou surrendered to the Han Dynasty, the King of Fujian pleaded guilty, and South Vietnam relied on rescue.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
北胡随畜荐居，禽兽行，虎狼心，上古未能摄。
大将军秉钺，单于奔幕；票骑抗旌，昆邪右衽。
是泽南洽而威北畅也。
若罚不阿近，举不遗远，设官俟贤，县赏待功，能者进以保禄，罢者退而劳力，刑于宇内矣。
履众美而不足，怀圣明而不专，建三宫之文质，章厥职之所宜，封禅之君无闻焉。
夫天命初定，万事草创，及臻六合同风，九州共贯，必待明圣润色，祖业传于无穷。
故周至成王，然后制定，而休征之应见。
translation: 
The Xiongnu in the north often moved their residences with their livestock. They walked like animals and had a heart like tigers and wolves. They have never been able to surrender since ancient times.
General Wei Qing holds an ax and iron, the Xiongnu Chanyu flees to Mobei; Husband General Huo Qubing holds the battle flag high, and Wusun Kunxie is naturalized in China.
Deze is distributed in the southern border and reaches the northern kingdom with great power.
If punishment is not partial to those close to you, if people are recommended and not sent away from distant places, if officials are set up to offer rewards for the wise men to come and perform meritorious services, those who are talented will be promoted and keep their salary, and those who are incompetent will be dismissed and return to their hometowns to farm, and laws will be implemented throughout the country.
He has many beauties but is not satisfied, has a holy mind but is not authoritarian, and establishes the system of Mingtang, Piyong, and Lingtai. The text and content meet the requirements and are applicable for a long time. It commends those who are conscientious and competent in their work. The previous generation of Fengdang monarchs have not heard of such beautiful virtues.
The monarch who first accepted the destiny made everything first. In order to achieve the same climate within the Liuhe and the unified system of the nine states, he must wait for the sage monarch to polish it and pass on the achievements of his ancestors forever.
Therefore, when the Zhou Dynasty reached King Zhou, the system was finalized, and then the verification response of Jiamei appeared.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
陛下盛日月之光，垂圣思于勒成，专神明之敬，奉燔瘗于郊官，献享之精交神，积和之气塞明，而异兽来获，宜矣。
昔武王中流未济，白鱼入于王舟，俯取以燎，群公咸曰 休哉！
今郊祀未见于神祇，而获兽以馈，此天之所以示飨，而上通之符合也。
宜因昭时令曰，改定告元，苴白茅于江、淮，发嘉号于营丘，以应缉熙，使著事者有纪焉。
盖六皃鸟退飞，逆也；白鱼登舟，顺也。
夫明暗之征，上乱飞鸟，下动渊鱼，各以类推。
今野兽并角，明同本也；众支内附，示无外也。
若此之应，殆将有解编发、削左衽、袭冠带、要衣裳而蒙化者焉。
斯拱而俟之耳！
translation: 
Your majesty is prosperous and shines in the light of the sun and the moon, hanging down the thoughts of the saints for meditation; you concentrate on worshiping the gods, going to Taizhi to offer sacrifices to the sky, and to the back earth to offer sacrifices to the earth. The spirit of offering wine and food moves the gods, and the air of peace fills the heaven and earth. Every place where the sun and the moon shine is reached, and strange beasts appear and are captured. This is as it should be.
Once upon a time, when King Wu of Zhou was on his way to the middle of the Yellow River during his expedition against the Shang Dynasty, a white fish jumped into the boat that King Wu of Zhou was riding in. King Wu leaned over to pick it up and grilled it over a fire. Everyone said, "What auspiciousness!"
Nowadays, when people offer sacrifices to heaven and earth in the countryside, they do not see the gods of heaven and earth, but they get strange beasts to sacrifice. This is the sky using it to show that they have enjoyed the sacrifice, and it is consistent with the auspiciousness of sincerity and sincerity.
We should choose an auspicious time, change the year name, weave mats, put white cogon grass on them, float them on the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, and climb Mount Tai to seal them, so as to harmonize the light and make it recordable by historians.
The six parrots flying back symbolize the rebellion of the princes; the white fish boarding the boat symbolizes the submission of the princes to King Wu.
Signs of light and darkness confuse the birds in the sky, stir up the fish underwater, and so on.
Now the white unicorn has a single horn on its head, indicating that it has the same origin; the branches of the strange tree are attached inside, indicating that it has no outward orientation.
When this phenomenon comes to fruition, the surrounding ethnic minorities will probably untie their hair, abandon their left-front clothing, wear hats and belts, and wear Han clothes to accept the enlightenment of the Central Plains.
These are just waiting for their arrival!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
对奏，上甚异之，由是改元为元狩。
后数月，越地及匈奴名王有率众来降者，时皆以军言为中。
元鼎中，博士徐偃使行风俗。
偃矫制，使胶东、鲁国鼓铸盐铁，还，奏事，徙为太常丞。
御史大夫张汤劾偃矫制大害，法至死。
偃以为《春秋》之义，大夫出疆，有可以安社稷，存万民，颛之可也。
汤以致其法，不能诎其义，有诏下军问状，军诘偃曰： 古者诸侯国异俗分，百里不通，时有聘会之事，安危之势，呼吸成变，故有不受辞造命颛己之宜；今天下为一，万里同风，故《春秋》 王者无外 。
偃巡封域之中，称以出疆何也？
且盐铁，郡有余臧，正二国废，国家不足以为利害，而以安社稷存万民为辞，何也？
又诘偃： 胶东南近琅邪，北接北海，鲁国西枕泰山，东有东海，受其盐铁。
偃度四郡口数、田地，率其用器食盐，不足以并给二郡邪？
将势宜有余，而吏不能也？
translation: 
The countermeasures were presented to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu thought it was unusual, so he changed the reign name to Yuanshou.
A few months later, famous kings from Yue and the Huns came to surrender to the Han Dynasty with their troops. At that time, people thought that Zhongjun's words were right.
During the Yuanding period, Dr. Xu Yan was sent as an envoy to inspect the customs and education of the county.
Xu Yan pretended to act under the orders of the imperial court and asked Jiaodong and Lu to cast iron and dry it with salt. After returning to Beijing, he reported what he had done and was transferred to Taichang Cheng.
Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, impeached Xu Yan for acting under the pretense of imperial orders, which was a great harm to the country and should be executed according to the law.
Xu Yan believed that according to the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", when officials go out of their borders and encounter matters that can stabilize the country and comfort the people, they can handle it arbitrarily.
Zhang Tang could only judge Xu Yan's crime according to the law, but could not refute the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" he used to defend himself. Emperor Wu ordered Zhongjun to interrogate the case. Zhongjun interrogated Xu Yan and said: In ancient vassal states, the customs of different countries were different, and they could not communicate with each other within a hundred miles. There were often appointments and alliances between the court, and the situation of stability or danger would change in a breath. Therefore, there was talk of acting arbitrarily without asking for instructions and pretending to be ordered by the court. Now that the world is unified, the customs are the same within thousands of miles, so the "Spring and Autumn Annals" said There is nothing like a king.
You patrolled the territory, and what did you say about the territory?
Besides, there is plenty of treasure in Yantie County. Even if the salt and iron from Micelle and Lu are abolished, it will not be of any interest to the country. Yet you use the excuse of stabilizing the country and pacifying the people. Why?
The final army questioned Xu Yan again and said: Jiaodong is close to Langye County in the south and Beihai County in the north. Lu State is adjacent to Taishan County in the west and Shuhai County in Shuhai, and they use their salt and iron.
Do you estimate that the population and fields of the four counties of Langye, Beihai, Taishan, and Donghai, as well as their iron utensils and salt, are not enough to supply Micellar and Lu?
Or should there actually be excess salt and iron, but officials cannot supply it?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
何以言之？
偃矫制而鼓铸者，俗及春耕种赡民器也。
今鲁国之鼓，当先具其备，至秋乃能举火。
此言与实反者非？
偃已前三奏，无诏，不惟所为不许，而直矫作威福，以从民望，干名采誉，此明圣所必加诛也。 枉尺直寻 ，孟子称其不可；今所犯罪重，所就者小，偃自予必死而为之邪？
将幸诛不加，欲以采名也？
偃穷诎，服罪当死。
军奏 偃矫制颛行，非奉使体，请下御史征偃即罪。
奏可。
上善其诘，有诏示御史大夫。
初，军从济南当诣博士，步入关，关吏予军繻。
军问： 以此何为？
translation: 
How do you explain this problem?
You asked them to cast iron tools under the guise of an order from the imperial court. You wanted to catch up with spring farming and ensure that the people would have iron tools for use.
Nowadays, when Lu State casts iron, various preparations should be made first, and then it can be ignited and smelted in the autumn.
Isn’t this inconsistent with actual needs?
You sent three requests to Miaojie and the State of Lu to operate salt and iron, but the imperial court did not respond to the edict. You did not think about what you wanted to do and did not approve it. Instead, you directly relied on the imperial court's orders to act in a way that obeyed the wishes of the people and gained reputation. This is an act that a wise king must punish. Bend one foot and straighten eight feet. Mencius said this is not possible. Now the crime you have committed is heavy and the thing you have accomplished is small. Do you think you will die and do this?
Or are you lucky enough to avoid being punished and use it to gain reputation?
Xu Yan was speechless and resigned, and he should die if he admits his crime.
The final report of the interrogation was reported by the army: Xu Yan acted with authority under the guise of relying on imperial orders and violated the system of inspections by envoys. Please issue an edict to the censor to summon Xu Yan to plead guilty immediately.
Finally, the army's memorial was approved.
Emperor Wu appreciated Zhongjun's questioning of Xu Yan very much, and asked him to show it to Zhang Tang, the imperial censor.
When Zhong Jun went to the capital from Jinan to visit the doctor, he walked through Hangu Pass. The official guarding the pass gave Zhong Jun a talisman made of silk.
Zhong Jun asked: What are you using this for?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
吏曰： 为复传，还当以合符。
军曰： 大丈夫西游，终不复传还。
弃繻而去。
军为谒者，使行郡国，建节东出关，关吏识之，曰： 此使者乃前弃繻生也。
军行郡国，所见便宜以闻。
还奏事，上甚说。
当发使匈奴，军自请曰： 军无横草之功，得列宿卫，食禄五年。
边境时有风尘之警，臣宜被坚执锐，当矢石，启前行。
驽下不匀金革之事，今闻将遣匈奴使者，臣愿尽精厉气，奉佐明使，画吉凶于单于之前。
臣年少材下，孤于外官，不足以亢一方之任，窃不胜愤懑。
translation: 
The official replied: "When I come back, I will use it as a road sign. I will pass this bundle and take it to match it."
Zhong Jun said: When a man travels to the west, he does not need it as a way back.
He threw down the silk talisman letter and left.
After Zhongjun was appointed as the envoy, he was envoyed to inspect the prefecture and the country. He went out to Hangu Pass to patrol the east with the talisman festival. The officials guarding the pass remembered him and said: This envoy is the Confucian scholar who abandoned the silk talisman letter before.
Finally, the army patrolled the prefectures and reported to the court when they encountered suitable things.
After returning from the mission, he reported his work to Emperor Wu, who was very happy to hear it.
When the imperial court sent an envoy to the Xiongnu, Zhongjun himself requested to be envoyed, saying: "I didn't even make the envoy fall, so I was listed as a minister of the Suwei and received a five-year salary."
There are warnings of war on the border from time to time. I should put on strong armor and hold sharp weapons, face the rain of arrows and stones, and open the way forward.
But I am not familiar with the matter of charging into battle. Now that I heard that an envoy is going to be sent to the Xiongnu, I am willing to do my best to inspire the spirit, assist the wise envoy, and plan good and bad things in front of the Xiongnu Chanyu.
I am young and have low talents, and I have failed to live up to my expectations. I cannot serve as an official to defend the border. I am not strong enough to stand alone. I feel depressed in private.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
诏问画吉凶之状，上奇军对，擢为谏大夫。
南越与汉和亲，乃遣军使南越，说其王，欲令入朝，比内诸侯。
军自请： 愿受长缨，必羁南越王而致之阙下。
军遂往说越王，越王听许，请举国内属。
天子大说，赐南越大臣印绶，一用汉法，以新改其俗，令使者留填抚之。
越相吕嘉不欲内属，发兵攻杀其王及汉使者，皆死。
语在《南越传》。
军死时年二十余，故世谓之 终童 。
王褒字子渊，蜀人也。
宣帝时修武帝故事，讲论六艺群书，博尽奇异之好，征能为《楚辞》九江被公，召见诵读，益召高材刘向、张子侨、华龙、柳褒等侍诏金马门。
神爵、五凤之间，天下殷富，数有嘉应。
上颇作歌诗，欲兴协律之事，丞相魏相奏言知音善鼓雅琴者渤海赵定、梁国龚德，皆召见待诏。
于是益州刺史王襄欲宣风化于众庶，闻王褒有俊材，请与相见，使褒作《中和》、《乐职》、《宣布》诗，选好事者令依《鹿鸣》之声习而歌之。
时，汜乡侯何武为僮子，选在歌中。
久之，武等学长安，歌太学下，转而上闻。
宣帝召见武等观之，皆赐帛，谓曰： 此盛德之事，吾何足以当之！
褒既为刺史作颂，又作其传，益州刺史因奏褒有轶材。
上乃征褒。
既至，诏褒为圣主得贤臣颂其意。
褒对曰：
translation: 
Emperor Wu went down to Shao and asked Zhongjun about his request to send an envoy to the Xiongnu to plan for good or bad luck. Emperor Wu thought that Zhongjun's answer was unusual and promoted him to the position of admonishing doctor.
South Vietnam and the Han Dynasty made peace, so Emperor Wu sent Zhongjun as an envoy to South Vietnam to lobby the King of South Vietnam to allow him to come to Beijing to see him, and his treatment was similar to that of the princes and kings in the mainland.
The final army volunteered and said: I hope your majesty will give me a long tassel, and I will tie up the King of Nanyue and bring him to the palace.
The army went to South Vietnam to lobby the King of Yue. After listening to the army's words, the King of Yue agreed to lead all the Yue people to join the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu was very happy and gave the South Vietnamese minister a seal, allowing the South Vietnamese king to uniformly use the legal system of the Han Dynasty to change the customs and habits of the Vietnamese people, and ordered the envoys to stay in the army to stabilize and appease South Vietnam.
Lu Jia, the Prime Minister of South Vietnam, was unwilling to join the Han Dynasty and sent troops to attack the King of South Vietnam. He also killed the Han Dynasty envoy Zhong Jun and others.
The words are in "The Biography of Nanyue".
Zhong Jun was only in his twenties when he died, so the world called him "Zhong Tong".
Wang Bao, whose courtesy name was Ziyuan, was from Shu County.
When Huang Tong was a child, he compiled the old affairs of the time of Cheng Zhi, talked about "Poems", "Books", "Li", "Music", "Yi", "Spring and Autumn" and other books, and extensively and exhaustively collected strange things. He recruited people from Jiujiang County who were proficient in "Chu Ci". Emperor Xuan summoned him and asked him to recite "Chu Ci". He also recruited outstanding talents Liu Xiang, Zhang Ziqiao, Hua Long, Liu Bao and others to wait for the imperial edict to Jinmamen.
During the years of Shenjue and Wufeng, the world was prosperous and auspicious signs appeared many times.
Emperor Xuan liked to compose poems and sing songs, and was planning to start a business of correcting music and rhythm to make it harmonious. The prime minister, Wei Xiang, summoned Tanding from Bohai County and Gong De from Liang who knew music and were good at playing Yaqin. Emperor Xuan summoned them and asked them to wait for the imperial edict.
At this time, Wang Xiang, who made the history of Yizhou, wanted to promote customs and enlightenment among the people. Hearing that Wang Guo was a talented person, he invited Wang Guo to meet him and asked him to compose "Zhonghe", "Music Responsibilities" and "Announcement Poems", and select enthusiastic people to sing according to the music of "Lu Ming".
At that time, Fanxiang Hou Hewu was still a minor and was selected to participate in singing.
After a long time, He Wu and others went to Chang'an to study vocal music and sang in Taixue. The matter was reported to the emperor.
Emperor Xuan summoned He Wu and others and said to them: This is a matter of Xinglong Dejiao, how can I stop them!
After Wang Bao wrote an ode to Wang Xiang, the governor of Yizhou, he also wrote a biography for him. Wang Xiang then wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying that Wang Bao had outstanding intelligence.
Emperor Xuan summoned Wang Bao.
After Wang Bao arrived in the capital, Emperor Xuan issued an order for Wang Bao to write a song with the theme of a wise monarch getting a wise minister.
Wang Bao's ode said:


Chunk 12: 
original: 
夫荷旃被毳者，难与道纯绵之丽密；羹藜含糗者，不足与论太牢之滋味。
今臣辟在西蜀，生于穷巷之中，长于蓬茨之下，无有游观广览之知，顾有至愚极陋之累，不足以塞厚望，应明指。
虽然，敢不略陈愚而抒情素！
记曰： 共惟《春秋》法五始之要，在乎审已正统而已。
夫贤者，国家之器用也。
所任贤，则趋舍省而功施普；器用利，则用力少而就效众。
故工人之用钝器也，劳筋苦骨，终日矻矻。
及至巧冶铸干将之朴，清水焠其锋，越砥敛其咢，水断蛟龙，陆剸犀革，忽若彗泛画涂。
如此，则使离娄督绳，公输削墨，虽崇台五增，延袤百丈，而不溷者，工用相得也。
translation: 
A person who carries a wool felt on his shoulders and wears fine black animal hair is not worth talking about the beauty of silk and cotton; a person who eats poor food is not worthy of talking to him about the taste of cattle, sheep, and pigs.
Nowadays, I live in a remote place in Western Shu, growing up in a poor alleyway under a house made of reeds and reeds. I do not have the knowledge to travel widely. Instead, I am burdened by extremely ignorance and shallowness. I am unable to satisfy my ardent hopes and respond to the will of the sage.
Even so, how dare I not briefly state my humble opinion and express my sincerity!
The book of notes says: Respectfully think about the "Spring King's first month of the first year" as the norm in "Spring and Autumn". The purpose of these five beginnings is just to examine your own correct system.
A virtuous person refers to a person with useful talents in the country.
If the people appointed are capable, they will be good at making choices and achieve a wide range of effects; if the tools are convenient, they will use less effort and achieve more results.
Therefore, when workers use blunt instruments, they work hard and work tirelessly all day long.
When the skillful craftsmen forged the Ganjiang sword, they quenched the edge with clean water and sharpened the blade with sharp stones produced in the Yue region. The sword could cut off dragons in the water and cut the skin of rhinoceros on land. It was as easy as sweeping the watered ground with a broom or scratching in the mud with a knife.
In this way, if Li Lou, who has excellent eyesight, is asked to see the line, and the skilled craftsman Gongshu Ban cuts ink, even if he builds a five-story high platform with a width of 100 feet, there will be no confusion, because the craftsmen and the tools are in harmony.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
庸人之御驽马，亦伤吻敝策而不进于行，匈喘肤汗，人极马倦。
及至驾啮膝，骖乘旦，王良执靶，韩哀附舆，纵驰骋骛，忽如景靡，过都越国，蹶如历块；追奔电，逐遗风，周流八极，万里一息。
何其辽哉？
人马相得也。
故服絺绤之凉者，不苦盛暑之郁燠；袭貂狐之暖者，不忧至寒之凄怆。
何则？有其具者易其备。
贤人君子，亦圣王之所以易海内也。
是以呕喻受之，开宽裕之路，以延天下英俊也。
夫竭知附贤者，必建仁策；索人求士者，必树伯迹。
昔周公躬吐捉之劳，故有圉空之隆；齐桓设庭燎之礼，故有匡合之功。
translation: 
A mediocre driver controls the horse, hurts the horse's mouth, breaks the riding whip, but still can't run fast, panting, the skin is sweaty, and the horse is tired and sleepy.
When you ride a good horse, let Wang Liang hold the bridle, and Han Ai serve as the driver, you can gallop as fast as the shadow of the swaying and floating sunlight. Crossing the city and country is like passing through a piece of soil; chasing lightning, faster than the wind, traveling to far-flung places in all directions, thousands of miles away can be reached in a breath.
Why can it run so far?
This is a match between man and horse.
Therefore, those who wear cool Gebu clothes do not worry about the sweltering heat of summer; those who wear mink and fox fur coats do not worry about the cold of winter. Why?
Because they have clothes for summer and cold, they can easily prepare for summer and winter.
Wise men and gentlemen are also the important force that sage kings rely on to change the world.
Therefore, the king accepted them with joy and opened wide and prosperous roads for them, so as to attract the talents of the world.
Those who use all their wisdom to rely on wise people will surely come up with benevolent and righteous strategies; those who use their heart to seek wise people will surely achieve the achievements of overlords.
In the past, the Duke of Zhou vomited food three times, bathed three times and caught the hair, and treated the virtuous subordinates with courtesy, so the world was in great order, punishments were not used, and prisons were empty. Duke Huan of Qi used the ceremony of burning in the court to receive those who contributed ninety-nine calculations. Soon, wise men came one after another, and Duke Huan finally unified the world, united the nine princes, and achieved hegemony.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
由此观之，君人者勤于求贤而逸于得人。
人臣亦然。
昔贤者之未遭遇也，图事揆策则君不用其谋，陈见悃诚则上不然其信，进仕不得施效，斥逐又非其愆。
是故伊尹勤于鼎俎，太公困于鼓刀，百里自鬻，甯子饭牛，离此患也。
及其遇明君遭圣主也，运筹合上意，谏诤即见听，进退得关其忠，任职得行其术，去卑辱奥渫而升本朝，离疏释蹻而享膏粱，剖符锡壤而光祖考，传之子孙，以资说士。
故世必有圣知之君，而后有贤明之臣。
故虎啸而风冽，龙兴而致云，蟋蟀俟秋吟，蜉蝤出以阴。
《易》曰： 飞龙在天，利见大人。
《诗》曰： 思皇多士，生此王国。
故世平主圣，俊艾将自至，若尧、舜、禹、汤、文、武之君，获稷、契、皋陶、伊尹、吕望，明明在朝，穆穆列布，聚精会神，相得益章。
translation: 
From this point of view, a monarch is diligent in visiting talented people, but he feels comfortable because he is assisted by others.
The same is true for people and ministers.
In the past, when a wise man had not met a wise master, he would make suggestions but the king would not adopt his opinions, express his opinions and express his loyalty but the master would not believe them, he would not be effective when he became an official, and it was not his fault that he would be expelled or removed from office.
Therefore, Yi Yin carried the cooking tripod and Zu in an attempt to assist Shang Tang, Jiang Taigong was trapped in Chao Ge, slaughtered cattle to make a living, Baili Xi sold himself, and Ning Zi fed cattle, all encountered different hardships.
When you meet a wise king and meet a holy master, your plans are in line with your will, your advice and remonstrances are listened to, your loyalty can be understood both in advance and retreat, and you can use your strategies in office. You leave the humiliating and dirty place and become a minister of the court. You leave the rough food, take off your wooden clogs, enjoy the delicious food, divide the talismans, and honor the ancestors, pass them on to your descendants, and pass them on to your descendants.
Therefore, there must first be a wise king in the world, and then there can be wise ministers.
Therefore, the tiger roars and the wind blows, the dragon soars and rises in the clouds, the cricket shuts up in late autumn, and the mayfly lives in the morning and dies in the evening.
"Book of Changes" says: Flying dragons in the sky are good for seeing adults.
"The Book of Songs" says: Beautiful and numerous wise men were born in the country of King Zhou.
Therefore, in the world, the peaceful monarchs, sages, and capable people will come by themselves, just like Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, Wen Wang, Wu Wang and other monarchs, and they have Ji, Qi, Gaotao, Yi Yin, Lu Wang and other virtuous ministers.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
虽伯牙操递钟，逢门子弯乌号，犹未足以喻其意也。
故圣主必待贤臣而弘功业，俊士亦俟明主以显其德。
上下俱欲，驩然交欣，千载一合，论说无疑，翼乎如鸿毛过顺风，沛乎如巨鱼纵大壑。
其得意若此，则胡禁不止，曷令不行？
化溢四表，横被无穷，遐夷贡献，万祥毕溱。
是以圣王不遍窥望而视已明，不单顷耳而听已聪；恩从祥风翱，德与和气游，太平之责塞，优游之望得；遵游自然之势，恬淡无为之场，休征自至，寿考无疆，雍容垂拱，永永万年，何必偃卬诎信若彭祖，呴嘘呼吸如侨、松，眇然绝俗离世哉！
《诗》云 济济多士，文王以宁 ，盖信乎其以宁也！
translation: 
Even if Zu Boya plays the bells and bends the black trumpet bow at the door, it is still not enough to describe the above scene.
Therefore, the holy master will wait for the virtuous ministers to promote his great achievements, and the talented and elegant people will wait for the wise king to show off their virtues.
The king and his ministers all realized their wishes and rejoiced with each other. For a thousand years, the king and his ministers spoke without suspicion. They spread their wings and soared like a feather in the wind, the water flowed swiftly and the giant fish leaped into the gully.
If the king and his ministers are as happy as they want, what else cannot be forbidden, what orders cannot be carried out?
The enlightenment spreads to all four sides, overflowing into infinity. Minorities from far away come to contribute, and all kinds of auspiciousness come.
Therefore, the sage king can see clearly without looking around, hear clearly without leaning his ears, the grace soars with the auspicious wind, the virtue wanders with the harmony, the duty of peace is fulfilled, the wish of leisurely travel is achieved, and he follows the trend of wandering in nature. , wandering in the tranquil and inactive place, good signs will come by themselves, long life without any boundaries, calm and unhurried, arching and doing nothing, for eternity, why should we bend and stretch like Peng Zu, breathe loudly like Wang Qiao and Chisongzi, and pass away in a worldly way!
"The Book of Songs" says that there are many talents in one place, and King Wen found peace because of it. It turns out that he believed that the king felt peace because he got wise men!


Chunk 16: 
original: 
是时，上颇好神仙，故褒对及之。
上令褒与张子侨等并待诏，数从褒等放猎，所幸宫馆，辄为歌颂，第其高下，以差赐帛。
议者多以为淫靡不急，上曰：  不有博弈者乎，为之犹贤乎已！
辞赋大者与古诗同义，小者辩丽可喜。
辟如女工有绮縠，音乐有郑、卫，今世俗犹皆以此虞说耳目，辞武比之，尚有仁义风谕，鸟兽草木多闻之观，贤于倡优博弈远矣。 顷之，擢褒为谏大夫。
其后太子体不安，苦忽忽善忘，不乐。
诏使褒等皆之太子宫虞侍太子，朝夕诵读奇文及所自造作。
疾平复，乃归。
太子喜褒所为《甘泉》及《洞箫》颂，令后宫贵人左右皆诵读之。
后方士言益州有金马碧鸡之宝，可祭祀致也，宣帝使褒往祀焉。
褒于道病死，上闵惜之。
translation: 
At this time, the emperor liked the magic of immortals very much, so Wang Bao talked about immortal things when he composed a hymn.
Emperor Xuan ordered Wang Guo, Zhang Ziqiao and others to wait for the imperial edict together. He repeatedly asked Wang Guo and others to participate in large-scale hunting expeditions as attendants. When they went to the palace, they were asked to write poems and praises, evaluate the quality of the articles, and award silk according to their grades.
Most of the discussants thought that this was a matter of immorality and no urgency. Emperor Xuan said, "Isn't there someone who plays chess?"
Playing chess when you have nothing to do is also an elegant activity. The top quality in poetry has the same meaning as ancient poetry. Secondly, it is also gratifying to be wise and gorgeous.
For example, textiles and embroidery include Luo Qi crepes, and music includes folk songs of Zheng and Wei. Today, secular people still use these to entertain their ears and eyes. Compared with these, poems and poems also include benevolence and justice, which allows you to watch more birds, animals and plants, which is much better than playing chess with a couple. Soon, Emperor Xuan promoted Wang Bao to the position of admonishing doctor.
After this, the prince was in poor health, in a trance, very forgetful, and unhappy.
Emperor Xuan went down to Shao and asked Wang Bao and others to go to the palace to serve the prince and try to make him happy. Wang Bao and others read wonderful articles and their own masterpieces morning and night.
The prince's illness recovered, and Wang Guo and others left.
The prince liked "Sweet Spring" and "Ode to the Dongxiao" written by Wang Bao, and asked the nobles in the harem and the attendants to read these two works.
Later, the alchemist said that there were golden horses, jade roosters and other treasures in Yizhou, and they could be worshiped to attract them. Emperor Xuan sent Wang Bao to Yizhou to offer sacrifices and obtain these treasures.
Wang Bao fell ill and died on the way to Yizhou. The emperor felt pity for him.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
贾捐之字君房，贾谊之曾孙也。
元帝初即位，上疏言得失，召待诏金马门。
初，武帝征南越，元封元年立儋耳、珠厓郡，皆在南方海中洲居，广袤可千里，合十六县，户二万三千余。
其民暴恶，自以阻绝，数犯吏禁，吏亦酷之，率数年一反，杀吏，汉辄发兵击定之。
自初为郡至昭帝始元元年，二十余年间，凡六反叛。
至其五年，罢儋耳郡并属珠厓。
至宣帝神爵三年，珠厓三县复反。
反后七年，甘露元年，九县反，辄发兵击定之。
元帝初元元年，珠厓又反，发兵击之。
诸县更叛，连年不定。
上与有司议大发军，捐之建议，以为不当击。
上使侍中、驸马都尉、乐昌侯王商诘问捐之曰： 珠厓内属为郡久矣，今背畔逆节，而云不当击，长蛮夷之乱，亏先帝功德，经义何以处之？
translation: 
Jia Ganzhi, courtesy name Junfang, is the great-grandson of Jia Yi.
When Emperor Yuan first came to the throne, he wrote a book about the gains and losses of political affairs, and was summoned to wait for the imperial edict at Jinmamen.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu conquered South Vietnam and established Daner County and Zhukuang County in the first year of Yuanfeng. These two counties were both located on the continent in the southern sea. They were about a thousand miles wide, with a total of 16 counties and more than 23,000 households.
The people in Nahuo were irritable and love affairs. They thought they were separated from the Han Dynasty and violated the officials' prohibitions many times. The officials also treated them cruelly. They rebelled once every few years and killed the officials. The Han government sent troops to attack and quell their rebellion.
From the establishment of the county to the first year of Emperor Zhao's reign, there were a total of six rebellions in more than 20 years.
In the fifth year of the First Yuan Dynasty, Dan'er County was abandoned and belonged to Zhukuang County.
In the third year of Emperor Xuan's reign, three counties in Zhukuang County rebelled again.
Seven years after this rebellion, in the first year of Ganlu, nine more counties rebelled. The Han government sent troops to quell these two rebellions.
In the first year of Emperor Yuan's reign, there was another rebellion in Zhuli County, and the Han court sent troops to attack.
Counties are even more rebelling against each other, and the situation is uncertain year after year.
Emperor Yuan discussed with relevant ministers about dispatching large forces to suppress the attack, but Jia Xian suggested that they should not attack.
The emperor sent his consort Prince Consort Lechanghou Wang Shang to interrogate Jia Gianzhi, saying: Zhuli Nei has been a county for a long time. Now it has betrayed and disobeyed the imperial order, but you say that it should not be attacked and encourage the rebellion of the barbarians. It is a disservice to the late emperor. In the Six Classics, which section should it belong to?


Chunk 18: 
original: 
捐之对曰：
臣幸得遭明盛之朝，蒙危言之策，无忌讳之患，敢昧死竭卷卷。
臣闻尧、舜，圣之盛也，禹入圣域而不优，故孔子称尧曰 大哉 ，《韶》曰 尽善 ，禹曰 无间 。
以三圣之德，地方不过数千里，西被流沙，东渐于海，朔南暨声教，迄于四海，欲与声教则治之，不欲与者不强治也。
故君臣歌德，含气之物各得其宜。
武丁、成王，殷、周之大仁也，然地东不过江、黄，西不过氐、羌，南不过蛮荆，北不过朔方。
是以颂声并作，视听之类咸乐其生，越裳氏重九译而献，此非兵革之所能致。
及其衰也，南征不还，齐桓救其难，孔子定其文。
以至乎秦，兴兵远攻，贪外虚内，务欲广地，不虑其害。然地南不过闽越，北不过太原，而天下溃畔，祸卒在于二世之末，《长城之歌》至今未绝。
赖圣汉初兴，为百姓请命，平定天下。
translation: 
Buying the donation replied:
Fortunately, I lived in the prosperous Ming dynasty, and I was able to speak out my policies without any taboos. I was willing to risk my life to do my best.
I heard that Yao and Shun were the most sage monarchs, and Yu’s merits only entered the realm of saints, but he could not travel to Kangtai. Therefore, Confucius praised Yao as "great", "Shao" praised Yao as "perfect," and "Yu" said "there is no difference."
The three sage monarchs Yao, Shun and Yu had a territory of only a few thousand miles, extending to the desert in the west and the Cambodian river flowing into the sea. Their prestige and education spread to the north and south, reaching the four seas. Those who wanted to accept the prestige and education were governed, and those who did not want to accept the prestige and enlightenment were not governed.
Therefore, both the monarch and his ministers have virtues to praise, and the living creatures with Qi each have their own merits.
King Wu Ding and King Cheng were the most benevolent monarchs in the Yin and Zhou dynasties. However, the land did not exceed the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers in the east, the Shi and Qiang in the west, the Jingman in the south, and the Shuofang in the north.
Therefore, the chants were chanted together, and the creatures with eyes and ears were all happy with their lives. The Yueshang family sent envoys to contribute, and the words were translated nine times before they could be understood. This cannot be attracted by war.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, King Zhao drowned in his southern expedition. Duke Huan of Qi helped King Xiang of Zhou determine the position of crown prince. Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals. Although the country of Yi and Di was large, all those who claimed to be kings were demoted to Yu.
By the time of the Qin Dynasty, they raised troops to attack far away, greedy externally and internally, and devoted themselves to expanding territory without considering the harm of doing so. However, the territory could not reach Minyue in the south and Taiyuan County in the north. The whole country collapsed and rebelled, and the disaster ended in the last years of Qin II. "Song of the Great Wall" is still alive today.
Thanks to the rise of the Ming Dynasty, the Han Dynasty relieved the sufferings of the people and brought peace to the world.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
至孝文皇帝，闵中国未安，偃武行文，则断狱数百，民赋四十，丁男三年而一事。
时有献千里马者，诏曰： 鸾旗在前，属车在后，吉行日五十里，师行三十里，朕乘千里之马，独先安之？
于是还马，与道里费，而下诏曰： 朕不受献也，其令四方毋求来献。
当此之时，逸游之乐绝，奇丽之赂塞，郑、卫之倡微矣。
夫后宫盛色则贤者隐处，佞人用事则诤臣杜口，而文帝不行，故谥为孝文，庙称太宗。
至孝武皇帝元狩六年，太仓之粟红腐而不可食，都内之钱贯朽而不可校。
乃探平城之事，录冒顿以来数为边害，厉兵马，因富民以攘服之。西连诸国至于安息，东过碣石以玄菟、乐浪为郡，北却匈奴万里，更起营塞，制南海以为八郡，则天下断狱万数，民赋数百，造盐、铁、酒榷之利以佐用度，犹不能足。
translation: 
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, he felt sorry for the lack of stability in China, stopped armaments, and instituted ritual education. There were only a few hundred cases handled across the country every year. The common people paid 40 yuan in taxes every year, and Ding men performed corvée once every three years.
At that time, someone came to offer a thousand-mile horse. Emperor Wen went down to Shao and said: "The red flag decorated with feathers and embroidered Luan birds is in front, and the attendants and vehicles are behind. When conditions are good, it can cover fifty miles a day. If there is an army accompanying it, it can cover thirty miles a day. Where can I go by riding a thousand-mile horse and running alone in front?"
So he returned the thousand-mile horse, paid the travel expenses for the horseman, and issued an edict: "I will not accept contributions, and I order the four parties not to ask for contributions."
At this time, pleasures in leisure activities were banned, wonderful gifts were eliminated, and the number of actors singing Zheng and Wei folk songs decreased.
There were many beauties in the harem, while the wise men lived in seclusion, and the treacherous people monopolized the power and remonstrated with the ministers. However, this was not the case during the reign of Emperor Wen, so Mi was called Xiaowen and the temple was called Taizong.
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowu's Yuanshou period, there was so much millet in Taicang that it rotted and turned red and was inedible. The ropes holding money in the capital's treasury were broken, and there was too much loose money to count.
So he traced the past events of the great ancestor Liu Bang who was besieged in Pingcheng, summed up the damage caused by the Xiongnu invading the border since Maodun Shanyu, gathered troops and horses, raised funds and enriched the people for military use, attacked the Xiongnu, and connected the territory to the west with all the countries in the Western Regions. They settled in peace, passed the Jieshi Mountain, and established Xuantu County, In Lelang County, the Huns in the north built forts and guards in the desert, and eight counties were set up in the south to conquer the South China Sea. However, there were tens of thousands of cases handled across the country every year, and the people's oral wealth amounted to hundreds of dollars. The use of salt and iron winery to increase financial expenses was still not enough.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
当此之时，寇贼并起，军旅数发，父战死于前，子斗伤于后，女子乘亭障，孤儿号于道，老母寡妇饮泣巷哭，遥设虚祭，想魂乎万里之外。
淮南王盗写虎符，阴聘名士，关东公孙勇等诈为使者，是皆廓地泰大，征伐不休之故也。
今天下独有关东，关东大者独有齐、楚，民众久困，连年流离，离其城郭，相枕席于道路。
人情莫亲父母，莫乐夫妇，至嫁妻卖子，法不能禁，义不能止，此社稷之忧也。
今陛下不忍悁悁之忿，欲驱士众挤之大海之中，快心幽冥之地，非所以救助饥馑，保全元元也。
《诗》云 蠢尔蛮荆，大邦为仇 ，言圣人起则后服，中国衰则先畔，动为国家难，自古而患之久矣，何况乃复其南方万里之蛮乎！
translation: 
At this time, bandits swarm up at the same time, and troops are often dispatched. Fathers die in the front, sons are wounded in the fight behind, women guard the pavilions, orphans cry in the streets, old mothers and widows weep in the streets, look at the sky, set up empty memorial tablets, pay homage to the souls of the dead, and miss the lonely souls who died thousands of miles away.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, stole the tiger talisman for mobilizing troops, secretly recruited celebrities, and Gongsun Yong of Guandong and others pretended to be envoys. These were all the reasons why the territory was expanded too much and the conquests were endless.
Nowadays, there is only Guandong in the world, and the largest states in Guandong are only Qijun and Chu State. The people have been poor for a long time. They have been dispersed and separated for many years, leaving the city and homeland where they live, and lying next to each other on the roads.
In human relationships, the intimacy does not exceed that of parents, the joy does not exceed that of husband and wife, and poverty reaches the level of marrying one's wife and selling children. Laws cannot prohibit it, and friendship cannot control it. This is a worry for the country.
Now His Majesty cannot bear the intimidation. The old anger wants to drive the scholars to fall into the sea and go to dark and dangerous places to find happiness. This is not a way to relieve famine and protect the people.
"The Book of Songs" says: The ethnic minorities in Jingzhou are ready to make enemies of the great powers. Creation means that saints appear and then subdue the surrounding ethnic minorities; when the Central Plains declines, the surrounding ethnic minorities will rebel first. Unrest is a disaster for the country. This problem has been worried about since ancient times, not to mention the barbarians thousands of miles south of Jingzhou!


Chunk 21: 
original: 
骆越之人父子同川而浴，相习以鼻饮，与禽兽无异，本不足郡县置也。
颛颛独居一海之中，雾露气湿，多毒草虫蛇水土之害，人未见虏，战士自死，又非独珠厓有珠犀玳瑁也，弃之不足惜，不击不损威。
其民譬犹鱼鳖，何足贪也！
臣窃以往者羌军言之，暴师曾未一年，兵出不逾千里，费四十余万万，大司农钱尽，乃以少府禁钱续之。
夫一隅为不善，费尚如此，况于劳师远攻，亡士毋功乎！
求之往古则不合，施之当今又不便。
臣愚以为非冠带之国，《禹贡》所及，《春秋》所治，皆可且无以为。
愿遂弃珠厓，专用恤关东为忧。
对奏，上以问丞相御史。
御史大夫陈万年以为当击；丞相于定国以为： 前日兴兵击之连年，护军都尉、校尉及丞凡十一人，还者二人，卒士及转输死者万人以上，费用三万万余，尚未能尽降。
今关东困乏，民难摇动，捐之议是。
translation: 
The father and son of the Yue people in the Luoyue area bathed in the same river, and were accustomed to drinking water through their noses. They were no different from animals, and it was not worth setting up a county there.
They only live alone in the sea, with fog, dew and moisture, and are full of poisonous weeds, insects, snakes, water and soil. Before the Yue people were captured, the soldiers they sent had already died. It is not just Zhuchen County that produces pearls, rhinos, and tortoiseshells. It is not worth regretting to abandon it, and it will not damage its prestige if it is not attacked.
The people there are like fish and turtles, how can they be worth possessing!
I will privately use the military operations against the Qiang people in the past as an example. It has not been a year since the army was launched, and the army has not traveled a thousand miles, but more than 400 million yuan has been spent. When the money of the chief minister was used up, the money of the Shaofu was used to provide relief.
The Qiang people in a corner of the country behave badly, and the expenses are so high, let alone the effort to attack Zhuli from afar, and the soldiers died without success!
It is inconvenient to seek proof from the past, and it is inconvenient to implement it today.
I foolishly believed that Zhuli County was not a civilized area where hats and belts were worn. The records in "Yu Gong" and the discussion of governance in "Spring and Autumn" could be ignored for the time being.
If you want, you can give up Zhuya County and use your money exclusively to rescue the refugees in Guandong.
After Jia Gianzhi's answer was submitted, the emperor read it and asked the prime minister and the imperial censor about the matter.
Chen Wannian, the imperial censor, believed that the rebellion in Zhuchen County should be attacked; Prime Minister Yu Dingguo believed that the rebels who had sent troops to attack Zhukuang County in successive years were led by eleven guards, captains, and prime ministers, but only two came back. More than ten thousand soldiers and those who transported grain and grass died, and the military expenditure was more than 30 million yuan, but they were not able to force all the rebels to surrender.
Now the Guandong region is sleepy, the people are suffering, and people's hearts are shaken. Jia Gianzhi's suggestion is right.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
上乃从之。
遂下诏曰： 珠厓虏杀吏民，背畔为逆，今廷议者或言可击，或言可守，或欲弃之，其指各殊。
朕日夜惟思议者之言，羞威不行，则欲诛之；孤疑辟难，则守屯田；通于时变，则忧万民。
夫万民之饥饿，与远蛮之不讨，危孰大焉？
且宗庙之祭，凶年不备，况乎辟不嫌之辱哉！
今关东大困，仓库空虚，无以相赡，又以动兵，非特劳民，凶年随之。
其罢珠厓郡。
民有慕义欲内属，便处之；不欲，勿强。
珠厓由是罢。
捐之数召见，言多纳用。
时，中书令石显用事，捐之数短显，以故不得官，后稀复见。
translation: 
The emperor listened to Jia Ganzhi's opinion.
So an edict was issued saying: Zhukuang County rebelled, plundered and killed officials and people, betrayed the court and disobeyed orders. Now some of the court ministers said that they could send troops to attack, some said that they could send troops to guard, and some advocated abandoning Zhuya County. They all have different opinions.
Day and night I thought deeply about the discussions of the ministers. I was ashamed of my prestige and could not implement them, so I wanted to punish the emperor. I hesitated and avoided difficulties, so I wanted to guard the borders and send troops to garrison the fields. I was aware of the changes in current affairs, but I was worried about the people.
Which one is more harmful, the hunger of the people or not attacking the distant barbarians?
Moreover, there is no expense to prepare for the sacrifices in the ancestral temple in times of famine, let alone avoid the humiliation without suspicion!
Now Kanto is very poor, the warehouses are empty, and there is nothing to use for relief. In addition, there are military operations, which not only makes the people hard to work, but also famines follow.
Remove Zhuchen County.
If the people in that area admire benevolence and righteousness and want to return to the mainland, they can be placed wherever they ask. If they are unwilling to join, don't force them.
Zhukuang County was abandoned from then on.
Jia Ganzhi was interviewed by the emperor many times, and most of his opinions were adopted.
At that time, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to have exclusive power. Jia Xianzhi repeatedly discussed Shi Xian's shortcomings, so he was not given an official position. Later, the number of times the emperor summoned him gradually decreased.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
而长安令杨兴新以材能得幸，与捐之相善。
捐之欲得召见，谓兴曰： 京兆尹缺，使我得见，言君兰，京兆尹可立得。
兴曰： 县官尝言兴愈薛大夫，我易助也。
君房下笔，言语妙天下，使君房为尚书令，胜五鹿充宗远甚。
捐之曰： 令我得代充宗，君兰为京兆，京兆，郡国首，尚书，百官本，天下真大治，士则不隔矣。
捐之前言平恩侯可为将军，期思侯并可为诸曹，皆如言；又荐谒者满宣，立为冀州刺史；言中谒者不宜受事，宦者不宜入宗庙，立止。
相荐之信，不当如是乎！
兴曰： 我复见，言君房也。
捐之复短石显。
兴曰： 显鼎贵，上信用之。
今欲进，弟从我计，且与合意，即得人矣。
translation: 
Yang Xing, the commander of Chang'an, has recently been favored by the emperor because of his outstanding talents. He and Mao Ganzhi are very close.
Jia Ganzhi wanted to be summoned by the emperor, so he said to Yang Xing: Jing Zhaoyin is vacant. If I have to see the emperor, I will recommend you, and Jing Zhaoyin will fall on you immediately.
Yang Xing said: The emperor once said that I am better than Xue Guangde, the imperial censor, and it is easy to help me.
The articles you wrote have wonderful words for the world, and having you serve as a minister is far better than meeting Wulu Chongzong.
He said: "Let me take the place of Wulu and serve as the clan leader. If you become the Yin of Jingzhao, Jingzhao will be at the top of the prefecture, and the Shangshu order will be the foundation of all officials. Then the world will be truly governed, and the wise men will not be separated from their official careers."
Not long ago, I made a suggestion to the emperor that Xu Jia, the Marquis of Ping En, could be a general, and that Sihou could serve as a minister. They were all adopted by the emperor. I also recommended Man Xuan, the emissary, who was immediately appointed as the governor of Jizhou. I also suggested that the eunuchs should not have exclusive power and eunuchs should not enter the ancestral temple, so the emperor ordered an immediate stop.
Shouldn’t the result of my recommendation to you be adopted by the emperor as mentioned above?
Yang Xing said: When I come to see the emperor again, I will recommend you.
Buying and donating criticized Shi Xian's shortcomings.
Yang Xing said: Shi Xianzheng is very lucky, and the emperor trusts and uses him.
Now that you want to become an official, you can follow my advice and be consistent with Shi Xian for the time being, and then you can become an official in the court.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
捐之即与兴共为荐显奏，曰： 窃见石显本山东名族，有礼义之家也。
持正六年，未尝有过，明习于事，敏而疾见，出公门，入私门。
宜赐爵关内侯，引其兄弟以为诸曹。
又共为荐兴奏，曰： 窃见长安令兴，幸得以知名数召见。
兴事父母有曾氏之孝，事师有颜、闵之材，荣名闻于四方。
明诏举茂材，列侯以为首。
为长安令，吏民敬乡，道路皆称能。
观其下笔属文，则董仲舒；进谈动辞，则东方生；置之争臣，则汲直；用之介胄，则冠军侯；施之治民，则赵广汉；抱公绝私，则尹翁归。
兴兼此六人而有之，守道坚固，执义不回，临大节而不可夺，国之良臣也，可试守京兆尹。
石显闻知，白之上。
乃下兴、捐之狱，令皇后父阳平侯禁与显共杂治，奏 兴、捐之怀诈伪，以上语相风，更相荐誉，欲得大位，漏泄省中语，罔上不道。
《书》曰： 谗说殄行，震惊朕师。
translation: 
Jia Gianzhi and Yang Xing jointly wrote a letter to recommend and praise Shi Xian, saying: We have seen privately that Shi Xian was originally from a famous family in Shandong and a family with etiquette and justice.
He has been administering justice for six years without making any mistakes. He is clearly familiar with political affairs, quick and responsive. After leaving the court, he returns to his own home and does not socialize casually.
He should be given the title of Marquis of Guannei. And cited his brothers as Zhu Cao.
The two of them jointly drafted a memorial to recommend Yang Xing, and the memorial was made by buying donations, saying: I saw Yang Xing, the commander of Chang'an, in private, and I was honored to be summoned many times.
Yang Xing served his parents with the filial piety of Zeng Shen, served his teachers with the talent of Yan Hui and Min Ziqian, and his good reputation spread far and wide.
The emperor recommended Maocai to Ming Shao, and all the princes were led by Yang Xing.
Yang Xing served as the magistrate of Chang'an and won the respect and support of officials and people. Everyone on the road praised his talents.
When you look at his writing and composition, he is like Dong Zhongshu; when he acts and talks, he is like Dongfang Shuo; when he speaks bluntly and admonishes, he is like Ji An; when he is allowed to lead troops and fight, he is like a champion prince; when he is allowed to govern the people, he is like traveling to Guanghan; when he is dedicated to public service and never private, he is like Yin Wenggui.
Yang Xing is the leader of the six men. He is strong in his ways, upholds his righteousness, and has unstoppable ambitions when approaching major festivals. He is a good minister of the country. He can be tried for the position of Jing Zhaoyin.
Shi Xian learned that Jia Ganzhi and Yang Xing recommended each other and reported it to the emperor.
The emperor issued an edict to imprison Yang Xing and Mao Zhi, and ordered the empress's father, Yangping Marquis Wang Jin and Shi Xian, to jointly interrogate them. They reported that: Yang Xing and Jia Zhi were cunning and hypocritical. They used the emperor's words to hint to each other and recommended each other to praise each other. They wanted to be high officials and leaked the language in the palace ban. They deceived the emperor and were treasonous.
"Shangshu" says: The slanderous and skillful theory destroys the virtue of the gentleman and shocks everyone.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
《王制》： 顺非而泽，不听而诛。
请论如法。
捐之竟坐弃市。
兴减死罪一等，髡钳为城旦。
成帝时，至部刺史。
赞曰：《诗》称 戎狄是膺，荆舒是惩 ，久矣其为诸夏患也。
汉兴，征伐胡越，于是为盛。
究观淮南、捐之、主父、严安之义，深切著明，故备论其语。
世称公孙弘排主父，张汤陷严助，石显谮捐之，察其行迹，主父求欲鼎亨而得族，严、贾出入禁门招权利，死皆其所也，亦何排陷之恨哉！
translation: 
"Kingdom" says: If one's literary faults are disguised as faults, and one's words are smooth and smooth, he can be killed without hearing a trial.
Please punish the crime according to the law.
Jia Gianzhi was eventually sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
Yang Xing's death sentence was reduced to one degree, and Kun Qian was promoted to Cheng Dan.
When he became emperor, Yang Xingguan became the governor of the Ministry.
Zan said: "The Book of Songs" says that Duke Xi of Lu and Duke Huan of Qi raised righteous troops to resist the Rong and Di in the north, and severely damaged the Jingman in the south. The Rong, Di and Jingman have been a worry for all ethnic groups in the Central Plains for a long time.
The rise of the Han Dynasty and the conquest of the Xiongnu and South Vietnam were important events at this time.
Carefully study the discussions of Huainan kings Liu An, Mao Xianzhi, Zhufu Yan, and Yan An. They are deeply understanding and the most famous, so they record their words in detail.
The world says that Gongsun Hong squeezed out his father Yan, Zhang Tang framed Yan Zhu, Shi Xian slandered Jia Tseung, and examined their deeds. The Lord's father Yan pursued Wuding Cooking and ended up annihilating his family, and Yan Tzu and Bie Tseung were banned from entering and leaving the palace to seek power. They all died in the right place. What's the regret of being squeezed out and framed?


