Chunk 0: 
original: 
韦贤字长孺。鲁国邹人也。
其先韦孟，家本彭城，为楚元王傅，傅子夷王及孙王戊。
戊荒淫不遵道，孟作诗风谏。
后遂去位，徒家于邹，又作一篇。
其谏诗曰：
肃肃我祖，国自豕韦，黼衣朱绂，四牡龙旂。
彤弓斯征，抚宁遐荒，总齐群邦，以翼大商，迭披大彭，勋绩惟光。
至于有周，历世会同。
王赧听谮，实绝我邦。
我邦既绝，厥政斯逸，赏罚之行，非由王室。
庶尹群后，靡扶靡卫，五服崩离，宗周以队。
我祖斯微，迁于彭城，在予小子，勤诶厥生，厄此嫚秦，耒耜以耕。
悠悠嫚秦，上天不宁，乃眷南顾，授汉于京。
于赫有汉，四方是征，靡适不怀，万国逌平。
乃命厥弟，建侯于楚，俾我小臣，惟傅是辅。
兢兢元王，恭俭净一，惠此黎民，纳彼辅弼。
飨国渐世，垂烈于后，乃及夷王，克奉厥绪。
咨命不永，唯王统祀，左右陪臣，此惟皇士。
translation: 
Wei Xian, whose courtesy name is Changru, was born in Zou, State of Lu.
His ancestor was Wei Meng, who originally lived in Pengcheng and was the Fu of King Yuan of Chu. He was also the Fu of King Yuan's son, King Yi, and his grandson, Liu Wu.
Liu Wu was dissolute and disobedient, so Wei Meng wrote poems to ridicule and admonish him.
Later, Wei Meng resigned from his official position, moved his family to Zoudi, and wrote another remonstrative poem.
His admonition poem said:
Our solemn and great ancestors founded the country from the time of Weishi, wearing fur clothes decorated with ax-shaped patterns and Zhu Fu decorated with "Ya" patterns, driving a chariot drawn by four male horses, with dragon pins on them.
He was given the Tong Gong and was responsible for conquests; he pacified the people in remote areas, took charge of many states, and assisted the Shang Dynasty. Later, there was Dapeng, who also made outstanding achievements.
By the time of the Zhou Dynasty, our Chu state had been among the princes for several generations and participated in alliances.
Later, King Nan of Zhou believed the slander and deprived us of the title of Chu State.
Our Chu State has severed relations with the Zhou Dynasty, and the laws of the Zhou Dynasty are no longer implemented in the Chu State. The matter of rewards and punishments was no longer decided by the Zhou Dynasty.
The ministers of the imperial court and the princes and princes no longer assisted and protected the Zhou Dynasty; the five areas around the capital fell apart, and Zong Zhou collapsed like this.
Our ancestors also declined and migrated to Pengcheng. In our generation, life is really hard-working.
Facing the disaster of being bullied by the powerful Qin, the late king had to go to the fields to cultivate the land himself.
The arrogant and arrogant Qin State, God will not bless them. God favored and blessed the south, and granted the capital of the Qin Dynasty to the Han Dynasty. The establishment of the Han Dynasty was truly great, with conquests in all directions. Everywhere they went surrendered, and thousands of states were at peace.
He appointed his younger brother to establish a marquis and a state in the Chu land; let us, the little ministers, assist the King of Chu carefully.
He is the king of the Yuan Dynasty who is diligent and conscientious. He is respectful, diligent and frugal and lasts for a long time. He blesses all the people with happiness and health, and appoints assistants and ministers to recruit virtuous people.
After reigning for nearly thirty years, his legacy was passed down to his descendants; later he was succeeded as King Yi, who was able to carry on the legacy.
It is a pity that King Yi did not live long. King Wu ascended the throne and was succeeded by King Wu. All the ministers around him, gentlemen and gentlemen, are all pillars.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
如何我王，不思守保，不惟履冰，以继祖考！
邦事是废，逸游是娱，犬马繇繇，是放是驱。
务彼鸟兽，忽此稼苗，烝民以匮，我王以愉。
所弘非德，所亲非悛，唯囿是恢，唯谀是信。
睮々谄夫，咢咢黄发，如何我王，曾不是察！
既藐下臣，追欲从逸，嫚彼显祖，轻兹削黜。
嗟嗟我王，汉之睦亲，曾不夙夜，以休令闻！
穆穆天子，临尔下土，明明群司，执宪靡顾。
正遐由近，殆其怙兹，嗟嗟我王，曷不此思！
非思非鉴，嗣其罔则，弥弥其失，岌岌其国。
致冰匪霜，致队靡嫚，瞻惟我王，昔靡不练。
兴国救颠，孰违悔过，追思黄发，秦缪以霸。
岁月其徂，年其逮耇，于昔君子，庶显于后。
我王如何，曾不斯觉！
黄发不近，胡不时监！
translation: 
Why does our king not consider preserving the ancestral heritage? Why does he not think about the difficulties of walking on thin ice, so as to inherit and carry forward the ancestral heritage!
The country's major affairs are neglected, and they wander around for endless entertainment all day long; the hounds and horses are beautiful and majestic, running here and there in front and behind.
He loves animals and birds wholeheartedly, but neglects farm work and forgets about crops. The people were in want because of this, and the king took pleasure in it.
What is promoted is not virtue, and what is close to is not talent. Just expanding the garden, just getting close to villains.
A flattering person, an upright gentleman; why doesn't the king clearly understand this?
You despise the ministers who look down upon you, and indulge in your own indulgences. It is an insult to your sage ancestors to take the deposed country so lightly.
It is a pity that our king is a close relative of the Han Dynasty, but he cannot work hard day and night to promote the reputation of his ancestors!
The solemn and solemn emperor rules the world; the fair and wise officials enforce the law strictly without any scruples.
To correct people far away, we must start from our own side. It is very dangerous to act recklessly just because you are a member of the Han clan. Oh our king, why don’t you consider this!
Failure to think or take precautions will leave future generations with no rules to follow; such serious mistakes will put the country in danger.
Solid ice is formed from slight frost, and the collapse of a country is caused by laziness and indifference; look at our ancestors, there is no one who is not thoughtful.
The best way to save and revitalize a country in danger is for a king to be good at repentance. Who can violate this law? Think about the past when Duke Mu of Qin asked the old man with yellow hair for advice and finally came to dominate. The years are passing by, and the years are getting old; alas!
Those gentlemen in the past who were good at repenting and repenting were fortunate enough to be famous in future generations.
What about you, Your Majesty? You can’t even see this!
If you don't get close to the wise man with yellow hair, why don't you learn from past examples!


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其在邹诗曰：
微微小子，既耇且陋，岂不牵位，秽我王朝。
王朝肃清。
唯俊之庭，顾瞻余躬，惧秽此征。
我之退征，请于天子，天子我恤，矜我发齿。
赫赫天子，明哲且仁，悬车之义，以洎小臣。嗟我小子，岂不怀土？
庶我王寤，越迁于鲁。
既去祢祖，惟怀惟顾，祁祁我徒，戴负盈路。
爰戾于邹，剪茅作堂，我徒我环，筑室于墙。
我即逝，心存我旧，梦我渎上，立于王朝。
其梦如何？
梦争王室。
其争如何？
梦王我弼。
寤其外邦，叹其喟然，念我祖考，泣涕其涟。
微微老夫，咨既迁绝，洋洋仲尼，视我遗烈。
translation: 
Wei Meng wrote an admonishment poem in Zoudi:
I'm a humble minister, I'm old and ugly, don't I miss my official position?
I left because our court was too filthy.
The imperial court should be purged, and that area should be a gathering place for talented people.
Looking at my own situation and thinking about it carefully, I'm afraid of this filthy and chaotic situation, so I'd better leave. When I resigned from my official position, I apologized to the emperor and said goodbye. The emperor sympathized with me and said he was sorry for my old age and frailty.
The great emperor is wise and benevolent; allowing me to resign is a great kindness. Why! My dear, don’t I miss my homeland?
Hoping that our king might repent, I moved to the land of Lu.
After leaving the place where my fathers lived, I looked back sadly along the way; many of my disciples followed me, carrying their burdens all over the road.
Later, when I arrived at Zoudi, I cut thatch and built a house. My disciples surrounded me and built a house next to me.
I moved here, but I still miss the old land in my heart; I dreamed about my former residence in Dushang, and I dreamed that I was still serving in the imperial court.
What about the dream?
I dreamed that I was arguing about political affairs in the court.
What about the argument?
I dreamed that the king scolded me violently.
When I woke up, I found out that I was still in a foreign land. I sighed deeply. Thinking of my ancestors, I cried like a man in tears.
I, a humble old man, have been cut off from my old country; the glorious Kong Yu shows me the traces of his past.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
济济邹鲁，礼义唯恭，诵习弦歌，于异他邦。
我虽鄙耇，心其好而，我徒侃尔，乐亦在而。
孟卒于邹。
或曰其子孙好事，述先人之志而作是诗也。
自孟至贤五世。
贤为人质朴少欲，笃志于学，兼能《礼》、《尚书》，以《诗》教授，号称邹鲁大儒。
征为博士，给事中，进授昭帝《诗》，稍迁光禄大夫、詹事，至大鸿胪。
昭帝崩，无嗣，大将军霍光与公卿共尊立孝宣帝。
帝初即位，贤以与谋议，安宗庙，赐爵关内侯，食邑。
徙为长信少府，以先帝师，甚见尊重。
本始三年，代蔡义为丞相，封扶阳侯，食邑七百户。
时，贤七十余，为相五岁，地节三年以老病乞骸骨，赐黄金百斤，罢归，加赐第一区。
丞相致仕自贤始。
年八十二薨，谥曰节侯。
贤四子：长子方山为高寝令，早终；次子弘，至东海太守；次子舜，留鲁守坟墓；少子玄成，复以明经历位至丞相。
translation: 
In the prosperous land of Zoulu, people respected etiquette and righteousness; recited scriptures and learned etiquette and music, which was very different from other places.
Although I am old, I still like this very much in my heart; my disciples are very happy and also like the rituals and music.
Wei Meng later died in Zoudi.
Some people say that his descendants wrote this poem because they did good deeds and recalled the ambitions of their ancestors.
It has been passed down for five generations from Wei Meng to Wei Xian.
Wei Xian was a simple man with a pure heart and few desires. He devoted himself to learning. He was proficient in "Li" and "Shangshu" and taught "Poetry" to others. He was called the great Confucian of Zou Lu.
Later, the imperial court recruited him as a doctor and appointed him as an official. He entered the palace to teach Emperor Zhao to study "Poetry", and was slowly promoted to Guanglu doctor Zhan Shi, and later to Dahonglu.
Emperor Zhao died without an heir, so the general Huo Guang and the ministers honored him as Emperor Xiaoxuan.
Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne. Wei Xian was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and had a household to worship him because he participated in the plan to support Emperor Xuan, stabilize the country and stabilize the country.
Moved to the Shaofu of Changxin Palace. Because Wei Xian was once the teacher of Emperor Zhao, he was very respected.
In the third year of Benshi, Wei Xian replaced Cai Yi as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuyang, with a settlement of 700 households.
At that time, Wei Xian was over 70 years old. He had been prime minister for five years and had been in Jiji for three years. He asked the court to resign because of his old age and illness. The court rewarded him with one hundred catties of gold, dismissed him and returned to his hometown, and also gave him a mansion.
The resignation of the prime minister began with Wei Xian.
Wei Xian died at the age of eighty-two, and the imperial court gave him the title of Jiehou.
Wei Xian had four sons: the eldest son, Wei Fangshan, served as the magistrate of Gaodi County and died very early; the second son, Wei Hong, was promoted to the prefect of Shuhai; the third son, Wei Shun, stayed in Lu to guard the cemetery of Wei's ancestral hall; the youngest son, Wei Xuancheng, was promoted to the position of prime minister many times because of his proficiency in Confucian classics.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
故邹鲁谚曰： 遗子黄金满籝，不如一经。
玄成字少翁，以父任为郎，常侍骑。
少好学，修父业，尤谦逊下士。
出遇知识步行，辄下从者，与载送之，以为常。
其接人，贫贱者益加敬，繇是名誉日广。
以明经擢为谏大夫，迁大河都尉。
初，玄成兄弘为太常丞，职奉宗庙，典诸陵邑，烦剧多罪过。
父贤以弘当为嗣，故敕令自免。弘怀谦，不去官。
及贤病笃，弘竟坐宗庙事系狱，罪未决。
室家问贤当为后者，贤恚恨不肯言。
于是贤门下生博士义倩等与宗家计议，共矫贤令，使家丞上书言大行，以大河都尉玄成为后。
贤薨，玄成在官闻丧，又言当为嗣，玄成深知其非贤雅意，即阳为病狂，卧便利，妄笑语昏乱。
征至长安，既葬，当袭爵，以病狂不应召。
translation: 
Therefore, there is a proverb in Zoulu: It is better to leave a box full of gold to your son than to leave him a scripture.
Wei Xuancheng, a young man, was appointed as a Langguan and a regular attendant on Sanqi due to his father's favor.
He was eager to learn when he was young and inherited his father's Confucianism. He was extremely humble and courteous to virtuous people.
Sometimes when he went out and met people he knew on foot, he would always ask his attendants to get off the car and take them back as a normal thing.
He treated people, including the poor and humble, with even greater respect, and his reputation spread far and wide.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he was promoted to the position of admonishing doctor and then moved to the rank of captain of Dahe County.
At the beginning, Xuancheng's elder brother Wei Hong was serving as Taichang Cheng, and his duties were to guard the ancestral temple and be in charge of the imperial tombs and gardens. Because of the complicated affairs, he committed many crimes.
His father Wei Xian, because Wei Hong should be the heir of the Wei family in the future, was afraid that he would be deposed for committing crimes, so he ordered Wei Hong to resign from the official position of Taichang Cheng due to illness. However, Wei Hong was humble and refused to resign.
When Wei Xian became seriously ill, Wei Hong was finally imprisoned for not being considerate in guarding the ancestral temple, and had not yet been convicted.
The family members asked Wei Xian who should be the heir to the Wei family, but Wei Xian showed an expression of anger and hatred and refused to speak.
So Wei Xian's disciple, Dr. Yi Qian, and others discussed with Wei Xian's clan members, pretending that it was Wei Xian's order, and asked the general manager of the Wei family to write a general order to establish Wei Xuan, the captain of Dahe County, as the successor of the Wei family.
After Wei Xian's death, Xuancheng heard the bad news in his official position and heard that he should be the heir. Xuancheng knew that dismissal was not what his father Wei Xian had always meant, so he pretended to be insane, urinated and defecated in bed, talked nonsense, and laughed wildly.
The imperial court summoned him to Chang'an. After the funeral, Wei Xuancheng was supposed to inherit his father's title, but Xuancheng pretended to be insane and ignored the imperial edict.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
大鸿胪奏状，章下丞相、御史案验。
玄成素有名声，士大夫多疑其欲让爵辟兄者。
案事丞相史乃与玄成书曰： 古之辞让，必有文义可观，故能垂荣于后。
今子独坏容貌，蒙耻辱，为狂痴，光耀暗而不宣。
微哉！子之所托名也。
仆素愚陋，过为宰相执事，愿少闻风声。
不然，恐子伤高而仆为小人也。
玄成友人侍郎章亦上疏言： 圣王贵以礼让为国，宜优养玄成，勿枉其志，使得自安衡门之下。
而丞相、御史遂以玄成实不病，劾奏之。
有诏勿劾，引拜。
玄成不得已受爵。
宣帝高其节，以玄成为河南太守。
兄弘太山都尉，迁东海太守。
数岁，玄成征为未央卫尉，迁太常。
translation: 
Da Honglu wrote to the court, and the court issued documents to the prime minister and censor, asking them to investigate and handle the matter.
Xuancheng always had a good reputation. Many scholar-bureaucrats believed that Xuancheng wanted to give up his title to his brother Wei Hong, so he pretended to be insane.
Prime Minister Shi, who was in charge of the investigation, then wrote to Xuancheng, saying: The ancients must have a decent name when they resigned, so that their reputation can be passed down to future generations.
Now you are just blindly destroying your appearance, suffering humiliation, pretending to be crazy, without any luster, and your benevolence and righteousness are hidden and not exposed.
The name you used to give in is too humble.
I have never been very clever, and the imperial court placed too much emphasis on me, making me the prime minister and deacon. I hope you can let me hear the good excuse you used.
Otherwise, I'm afraid you will hurt Gao Gaoxing and I will become a villain.
Wei Xuancheng's friend and minister Zhang also wrote to the court saying: When a wise monarch governs the country, he advocates courtesy, benevolence and righteousness. The Xuancheng court should treat him with courtesy and kindness, and should not wrong or wrong his good ambitions, so that he can feel at ease even though he is poor.
The prime minister and censor finally impeached Xuancheng to the court because he was pretending to be ill.
The imperial court issued an edict not to impeach Xuancheng, but sent someone to call him and worship him as an official.
Xuancheng had no choice but to accept the title.
Emperor Xuan admired his integrity and made Xuancheng the governor of Henan.
He made his elder brother Wei Hong the captain of Taishan County and moved to the prefect of Donghai.
A few years later, Xuancheng was recruited by the imperial court as a guard in Weiyang Palace and was promoted to Taichang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
坐与故平通侯杨惲厚善，惲诛，党友皆免官。
后以列侯侍祀孝惠庙，当晨入庙，天雨淖，不驾驷马车而骑至庙下。
有司劾奏，等辈数人皆削爵为关内侯。
玄成自伤贬黜父爵，叹曰： 吾何面目以奉祭祀！
作诗自劾责，曰：
赫矣我祖，侯于豕韦，赐命建伯，有殷以绥。
厥绩既昭，车服有常，朝宗商邑，四牡翔翔，德之令显，庆流于裔，宗周至汉，群后历世。
肃肃楚傅，辅翼元、夷，厥驷有庸，惟慎惟祗。
嗣王孔佚，越迁于邹，五世圹僚，至我节侯。
惟我节侯，显德遐闻，左右昭、宣，五吕以训。
既耇致位，惟懿惟奂，厥赐祁祁，百金洎馆。
国彼扶阳，在京之东，惟帝是留，政谋是从。
绎绎六辔，是列是理，威仪济济，朝享天子。
translation: 
Because he had a good relationship with the original Pingtong Marquis Yang Tan, Yang Tan was killed and his comrades and friends were dismissed from their official positions.
Later, because the princes accompanied them to worship at Emperor Xiaohui's temple and they should enter the temple in the morning, because it rained and formed puddles, they did not ride in a four-horse cart but rode to the ancestral temple.
The officials in charge petitioned for impeachment, and several princes of the same generation as Wei Xuancheng were demoted to the rank of Guannei Marquis.
Xuancheng was very sad because his father's title was reduced due to his mistakes. He sighed: "How can I have the face to preside over the sacrifices in the ancestral temple!"
I wrote a poem to blame myself. The poem says:
Our glorious and glorious ancestors began to be granted the title of marquis since Weishi, and were appointed to be called uncles, assisting the Yin Shang Dynasty to stabilize.
Because of his outstanding achievements, the imperial court gave him ceremonial clothes, chariots and chariots. When he went to the capital of the Shang Dynasty to pay homage, his four horses ran so fast. Their virtues were outstanding and influenced and educated future generations; from Zongzhou to the Han Dynasty, they were granted the title of marquis in every dynasty.
The solemn king of Chu Fu my ancestors assisted the kings of Yuan and Yi. There were regular rules for chariots and horses, and he was very careful and respectful about them.
Later, King Wu was dissolute and immoral, and my ancestors moved to the land of Dingzou. After that, no one became an official for five generations, until my father, Marquis of Jie.
On my Father's Day, my virtues are famous far and wide; Sasuke helped Emperor Zhao and Emperor Xuan to teach them in five aspects.
When he was old, he resigned and returned home with a magnificent appearance. Rewards from the imperial court came and went, and a lot of gold and silver were brought to his home.
The feudal state was in Fuyang, on the Cambodian side of the capital; the emperor often stayed there to listen to and adopt suggestions and plans for current affairs.
The reins of the six horses are handled smoothly and orderly; the majestic ceremonial guard is very neat, and they go to pay homage to the emperor.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
天子穆穆，是宗是师，四方遐尔，观国之辉。
茅土之继，在我俊兄，惟我俊兄，是让是形。
于休厥德，于赫有声，致我小子，越留于京。
惟我小子，不肃会同，惰彼车服，黜此附庸。
赫赫显爵，自我队之；微微附庸，自我招之。
谁能忍愧，寄之我颜；谁将遐征，从之夷蛮。
于赫三事，匪俊匪作，于蔑小子，终焉其度。
谁谓华高，企其齐而；谁谓德难，厉其庶而。
嗟我小子，于贰其尤，队彼令声，申此择辞。
四方群后，我监我视，威仪车服，唯肃是履！
初，宣帝宠姬张婕妤男淮阳宪王好政事，通法律，上奇其才，有意欲以为嗣，然用太子起于细微，又早失母，故不忍也。
translation: 
The emperor is solemn and solemn, treating him as his teacher; people from far and near admire the glory of our kingdom.
The inheritance of the ancestral fiefdom should be my handsome eldest brother; but my handsome eldest brother has repeatedly shown humility to show his benevolence and justice.
How beautiful his character is, how resounding his reputation is; my ancestors left their official titles to me, so I stayed in the capital.
But as a humble person, I was careless in respecting important court gatherings; I was lazy and messy in formal dress and chariots, so I was deposed as a vassal by the court.
I lost my glorious and distinguished title; I began to incur the humble status of a vassal.
Who can endure such shame? Lend me your face; who wants to travel to distant places?
Let me go with him to that wild place. The honorable position of the Three Lords is not something that a talented person cannot hold; even though I am humble, I will eventually sit in such a high position.
Who said Huashan is high? I hope to be as high as it; who said practicing virtue is difficult? I hope I can achieve it through hard work.
Oh, little me, I can never make such a mistake again; I ruined my good reputation by saying these sad words.
Princes and kings everywhere should learn from me; their attire, chariots and chariots should be dignified and orderly, and their steps should be solemn and dignified.
At the beginning, Huaiyang Xianwang, the son of Emperor Xuan's favorite concubine Zhang Jieyu, liked to handle state affairs and was familiar with the law. The emperor appreciated his talents and intended to make him his heir. However, because the prince was born in poverty and lost his mother early, he could not bear to depose the prince.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
久之，上欲感风宪王，辅以礼让之臣，乃召拜玄成为淮阳中尉。
是时，王未就国，玄成受诏，与太子太傅萧望之及《五经》诸儒杂论同异于石渠阁，条奏其对。
及元帝即位，以玄成为少府，迁太子太傅，至御史大夫。
永光中，代于定国为丞相。
贬黜十年之间，遂继父相位，封侯故国，荣当世焉。
玄成复作诗，自著复玷缺之艰难，因以戒示子孙，曰：
于肃君子，既令厥德，仪服此恭，棣棣其则。
咨余小子，既德靡逮，曾是车服，荒嫚以队。
明明天子，俊德烈烈，不遂我遗，恤我九列。
我既兹恤，惟夙惟夜，畏忌是申，供事靡惰。
天子我监，登我三事，顾我伤队，爵复我旧。
translation: 
After a long time, Emperor Xuan wanted to influence King Xian from the side and make him understand, so he wanted people who knew etiquette and resignation to assist him, so he summoned Wei Xuancheng and worshiped him as the lieutenant of Huaiyang.
At this time, King Xian had not yet taken office in his own kingdom. Xuancheng accepted Shao's order and discussed the similarities and differences of the scriptures with the prince Taifu Xiao Wangzhi and the Confucian scholars who were responsible for the "Five Classics" in Shiquhe, and wrote an entry to inquire the emperor.
After Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he appointed Xuancheng as Shaofu, promoted to Prince Taifu, and later became Yushi Dafu.
During the Yongguang period, Wei Xuancheng replaced Yu Dingguo as prime minister.
Wei Xuancheng was demoted for about ten years, and then took the official position of the prime minister where his father had been. He was also made a marquis in the original feudal country, and he was honored in the world.
Xuancheng wrote another poem in which he expressed the difficulty of getting up from mistakes and used it to admonish his descendants. The poem said:
A solemn gentleman cultivates his own virtue by behaving dignifiedly. He treats etiquette and dress respectfully and is neat and tidy to serve as a model.
Alas, I am a humble person, but my virtue is not as good as theirs. I was deprived of my title because I was careless in dress, carriage and carriage.
The sage emperor has outstanding virtues; he did not abandon me in the end and let me rank among the nine ministers.
Since I received such a favor from the emperor, I have been careful day and night, warning myself to exercise self-discipline and not to neglect my duties as an official.
The emperor was aware of my situation and promoted me to the position of Prime Minister among the three nobles. Considering that I was sad about my past mistakes and losing my title, I restored my original title.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
我即此登，望我旧阶，先后兹度，涟涟孔怀。
司直御事，我熙我盛；群公百僚，我嘉我庆。
于异卿士，非同我心，三事惟艰，莫我肯矜。
赫赫三事，力虽此毕，非我所度，退其罔日。
昔我之队，畏不此居，今我度兹，戚戚其惧。
嗟我后人，命其靡常，靖享尔位，瞻仰靡荒。
慎尔会同，戒尔车服，无惰尔仪，以保尔域。
尔无我视，不慎不整；我之此复，惟禄之幸。
於戏后人，惟肃惟栗。
无忝显祖，以蕃汉室！
玄成为相七年，守正持重不及父贤，而文采过之。
建昭三年薨，谥曰共侯。
translation: 
After I ascended to the official position, I looked at the old steps and house; my late father once lived in this house, and recalling it made me very nostalgic and sad.
The Prime Minister, Sizhi, and those who helped manage the political affairs, assisted me very well and made my career prosperous; all the ministers and officials came to congratulate me.
Alas, these officials have really different thoughts from mine; no one is willing to sympathize with me despite how difficult things are.
Although I have spent all my energy on the grand Three-Gong affair, I am afraid that this is not an official position that I can hold for a long time. I don’t know if I will be demoted one day.
In the past, when I was demoted, I was afraid that I would not be able to achieve such a high position; now that I am the Prime Minister, I am very worried and afraid.
Oh, my descendants, you must know that destiny is impermanent; find ways to be your officials well and don't be idle in handling government affairs.
Be cautious about important court affairs, be careful about dressing up for car and car battles, don't be ungraceful, and keep your fiefdom well.
Don't look at me and imitate me, being careless and untidy like me; the restoration of my official position is a blessing from God.
Oh, juniors, be careful.
Don't tarnish your glorious ancestors and protect the Han Dynasty!
Wei Xuancheng had been prime minister for seven years. He was not as good as his father Wei Xian in terms of ethics and stability, but surpassed his father in literary talent.
Wei Xuancheng died in the third year of Jianzhao, and Mi was named Gonghou.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
初，贤以昭帝时徙平陵，玄成别徙杜陵，病且死，因使者自白曰： 不胜父子恩，愿乞骸骨，归葬父墓。 上许焉。
子顷侯宽嗣。
薨，子僖侯育嗣。
薨，子节侯沉嗣。
自贤传国至玄孙乃绝。
玄成兄高寝令方山子安世历郡守、大鸿胪、长乐卫尉，朝廷称有宰相之器，会其病终。
而东海太守弘子赏亦明《诗》。
哀帝为定陶王时，赏为太傅。
哀帝即位，赏以旧恩为大司马车骑将军，列为三公，赐爵关内侯，食邑千户，亦年八十余，以寿终。
宗族至吏二千石者十余人。
初，高祖时，令诸侯王都皆立太上皇庙。
translation: 
At first, Wei Xian moved to Pingling during the reign of Emperor Zhao, and Wei Xuancheng moved to Duling. Xuancheng was very ill and was about to die. He sent a messenger to express his feelings to the court. He said: I can't bear the deep love between father and son but they are buried in two places. I hope the emperor can allow me to resign and go back to be buried with my father.
The emperor agreed to his request.
His son Wei Kuan, Marquis of Qing, inherited the title.
After Wei Kuan's death, his son Wei Yu, Marquis of Xi, inherited the title.
After Wei Yu's death, his son Jiehou Wei Shen was established. Wei Xian's feudal kingdom was not ended until his great-great-grandson.
Wei Xuancheng's elder brother, Wei Anshi, the son of Wei Fangshan, the county magistrate of Gaofei, had been promoted from county guard to Dahonglu and Changle palace guards. The court praised him for his talents as a prime minister, but he unfortunately fell ill and died.
Wei Shang, the son of Wei Hong, the prefect of Shuhai, was also familiar with the Book of Songs.
When Emperor Ai was the king of Dingtao, Wei Shang served as his tutor.
After Emperor Ai came to the throne, Wei Shang, because of his old favor as his teacher, was made a horse-riding general, ranking third among the Dukes. He was awarded the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 1,000 households, and he lived to be over eighty years old.
There are more than ten people in the Wei family who have achieved official positions of two thousand shi.
At the beginning, during the reign of Emperor Gaozu, he ordered all princes and kings to build temples of the Supreme Emperor in their capitals.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
至惠帝尊高帝庙为太祖庙，景帝尊孝文庙为太宗庙，行所尝幸郡国各立太祖、太宗庙。
至宣帝本始二年，复尊孝武庙为世宗庙，行所巡狩亦立焉。
凡祖宗庙在郡国六十八，合百六十七所。
而京师自高祖下至宣帝，与太上皇、悼皇考各自居陵旁立庙，并为百七十六。
又园中各有寝、便殿，日祭于寝，月祭于庙，时祭于便殿。
寝，日四上食；庙，岁二十五祠；便殿，岁四祠。
又有一游衣冠。
而昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后、孝文太后、孝昭太后、卫思后、戾太子、戾后各有寝园，与诸帝合，凡三十所。
一岁祠，上食二万四千四百五十五，用卫士四万五千一百二十九人，祝宰乐人万二千一百四十七人，养牺牲卒不在数中。
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the Gaodi Temple was revered as the Taizu Temple; during the Jing Emperor, the Xiaowen Temple was revered as the Taizong Temple, and he ordered that Taizu and Taizong temples be built wherever the emperor was and in the counties he had visited.
In the second year of Emperor Xuan's reign, Xiaowu Temple was revered as Sejong Temple. Sejong Temple was also built where the emperor was and where he visited.
Among the sixty-eight vassal states, there are a total of one hundred and sixty-seven temples dedicated to Moshi ancestors.
In the capital, from Emperor Gaozu to Emperor Xuan, together with Emperor Taishang and Emperor Mourning, they each built temples next to the tombs, totaling a total of 176 temples.
In addition, there are main hall and side hall in the garden tomb. Sacrifice is held every day in the main hall of the mausoleum, once a month in the ancestral temple, and from time to time in the side hall.
In the main hall of the mausoleum, sacrifices are offered four times a day; in the ancestral temple, twenty-five sacrifices are offered every year; and in the side halls four times a year.
And once a month, he would carry the late emperor's clothes and travel between the mausoleum and the sacrificial temple.
Empress Zhaoling, King Wuai, Empress Zhaoai, Empress Dowager Xiaowen, Empress Dowager Xiaozhao, Empress Wei Si, Prince Li, and Empress Li also had their own tombs and gardens, which together with the temples and cemeteries of the previous emperors, totaled thirty.
For annual sacrificial activities, 24,455 people are responsible for serving sacrificial food, 45,129 guards are employed, and 12,147 wizards, butlers, and entertainers are employed, not counting the personnel responsible for raising the animals used for sacrifices.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
至元帝时，贡禹奏言： 古者天子七庙，今孝惠、孝景庙皆亲尽，宜毁。
及郡国庙不应古礼，宜正定。
天子是其议，未及施行而禹卒。
光永四年，乃下诏先议罢郡国庙，曰： 朕闻明王之御世也，遭时为法，因事制宜。
往者天下初定，远方未宾，因尝所亲以立宗庙，盖建威销萌，一民之至权也。
今赖天地之灵，宗庙之福，四方同轨，蛮貊贡职，久遵而不定，令疏远卑贱共承尊祀，殆非皇天祖宗之意，朕甚惧焉。
传不云乎？ 吾不与祭，如不祭。 其与将军、列侯、中二千石、二千石、诸大夫、博士、议郎议。
丞相玄成、御史大夫郑弘、太子太傅严彭祖、少府欧阳地馀、谏大夫尹更始等七十人皆曰： 臣闻祭，非自外至者也，繇中出，生于心也。
故唯圣人为能飨帝，孝子为能飨亲。
立庙京师之居，躬亲承事，四海之内各以其职来助祭，尊亲之大义，五帝、三王所共，不易之道也。
《诗》云： 有来雍雍，至止肃肃，相维辟公，天子穆穆。 《春秋》之义，父不祭于支庶之宅，君不祭于臣仆之家，王不祭于下土诸侯。
臣等愚以为宗庙在郡国，宜无修，臣请勿复修。
translation: 
When Emperor Yuan arrived, Gong Yu wrote a letter saying: In the ancient ritual system, the emperor only had seven temples. Now that all the direct relatives of Emperor Xiaohui and Emperor Xiaojing's ancestral temples are dead, the temples should be destroyed.
And the ancestral temples of various vassal states that do not conform to the ancient rituals should also be corrected.
Emperor Yuan agreed with his suggestion, but died before Gong Yu could implement it.
In the fourth year of Yongguang's reign, the emperor issued an edict to the ministers to discuss the cancellation of the ancestral temples of various princes. Shao Shu said: I heard that when the wise kings governed the world, they formulated laws and regulations according to the changes of the times, and adopted different methods according to different events.
In the past, when the world had just been peaceful and people in remote areas had not yet surrendered, the former emperor built ancestral temples in places he personally visited. This was to establish prestige, eliminate hidden dangers, and unify people under one supreme authority.
Now, thanks to the power of heaven and earth and the great blessings of our ancestors, the world is unified and the remote peoples surrender. Later generations of monarchs have long followed the emperor's etiquette without changing it, so that alienated and humble people can join the royal family in worshiping the sacred ancestral temple. This is probably not what God and our ancestors want, so I am very afraid.
Doesn't the Analects of Confucius say that if I don't personally participate in the sacrifice, it's the same as if I don't hold the sacrifice. Now I invite the generals, the princes and kings, the officials of the two thousand shi, the officials of the 2,000 shi, the officials, doctors, and counselors to discuss this matter together.
Seventy people, including Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng, Imperial Censor Zheng Hong, Crown Prince Tufu Yan Pengzu, Shaofu Ouyang Diyu, and Admonishing Doctor Yin Gengshi, responded together and said: We have heard that worshiping ancestors is not due to external influence, but to do so from the heart.
Therefore, only saints can truly worship the late emperor, and only filial sons can truly worship their father.
If you build an ancestral temple in the place where you, the emperor, live in the capital, and personally preside over the sacrifices, officials from all over the world will bring sacrifices to assist in the sacrifices according to their duties. This is the essence of worshiping the ancestors, and it is the eternal path that the five emperors and three kings abide by.
The "Poetry" says: The people who came to offer sacrifices were very peaceful and very respectful when they arrived; the people who came to offer sacrifices were all ministers, princes and the emperor, and they presided over the sacrifices in a very solemn and solemn way. The great principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that you should not offer sacrifices to your ancestors in the homes of common people nearby, not to offer sacrifices to your ancestors in the homes of ministers and servants, and not to offer sacrifices to your ancestors in the homes of princes below.
We believe that the ancestral temples of the late emperors in various vassal states should not be built, and we request that no more be built.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
奏可。
因罢昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后、卫思后、戾太子、戾后园，皆不奉祠，裁置吏卒守焉。
罢郡国庙后月余，复下诏曰： 盖闻明王制礼，立亲庙四，祖宗之庙，万世不毁，所以明尊祖敬宗，著亲亲也。
朕获承祖宗之重，惟大礼未备，战栗恐惧，不敢自颛，其与将军、列侯、中二千石、二千石、诸大夫、博士议。
玄成等四十四人奏议曰： 《礼》，王者始受命，诸侯始封之君，皆为太祖。
以下，五庙而迭毁，毁庙之主臧乎太祖，五年而再殷祭，言一禘祫也。
祫祭者，毁庙与未毁庙之主皆合食于太祖，父为昭，子为穆，孙复为昭，古之正礼也。
《祭义》曰： 王者禘其祖自出，以其祖配之，而立四庙。
translation: 
The ministers' memorials were approved by the emperor.
Therefore, the cemeteries of Empress Zhaoling, King Wuai, Empress Zhaoai, Empress Weisi, Prince Li, and Empress Li were cancelled, no more sacrifices were performed, and the number of officials and soldiers guarding the tombs was reduced.
More than a month after the ancestral temples in various vassal states were abolished, the emperor issued another edict: I heard that the wise king established etiquette and built four temples for ancestors. The temples for ancestors will never be destroyed. This is to show respect for ancestors and show closeness to fathers and elders.
I inherited the great inheritance from my ancestors, but because this important etiquette was not complete, I was very afraid. I did not dare to make arbitrary decisions on my own, so I discussed this matter with the generals, princes, Zhong Er Qian Shi, Er Qian Shi, various officials and doctors.
Wei Xuancheng and other forty-four people discussed and replied: "Li" says that the founding king who was appointed by heaven and the first monarch of the vassal state were called Taizu.
After the death of the kings, the temples built after their death were successively demolished after five generations. The gods of the destroyed temples were kept in the Taizu Temple. Five years later, a big sacrifice was held, which was called a chair sacrifice and a folder sacrifice.
The folder sacrifice is to gather the gods who have destroyed the temple and the gods who have not destroyed the temple to the Taizu Temple to wrap up and offer sacrifices. The father is Zhao, the son is Mu, and the grandson is Zhao. This is the ancient orthodox etiquette.
The sacrificial book says: The king worshiped the father of his ancestors, and allowed Taizu's god to be sacrificed together, thereby building four temples.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
言始受命而王，祭天以其祖配，而不为立庙，亲尽也。
立亲庙四，亲亲也。
亲尽而迭毁，亲疏之杀，示有终也。
周之所以七庙者，以后稷始封，文王、武王受命而王，是以三庙不毁，与亲庙四而七。
非有后稷始封，文、武受命之功者，皆当亲尽而毁。
成王成二圣之业，制礼作乐，功德茂盛，庙犹不世，以行为谥而已。
《礼》，庙在大门之内，不敢远亲也。
臣愚以为高帝受命定天下，宜为帝者太祖之庙，世世不毁，承后属尽者宜毁。
今宗庙异处，昭穆不序，宜入就太祖庙而序昭穆如礼。
translation: 
It is said that he was originally ordered to be king by heaven. When he offered sacrifices to heaven, he used his own ancestors as sacrifices and did not build a temple for him. This was because the kinship relationship was alienated.
The living emperor built four sacrificial temples to show his respect for his fathers.
When the kinship relationship becomes estranged, the temples will be demolished one after another, and the relationship gradually deteriorates from closeness to estrangement, which means that there is an end.
The reason why seven temples were built in the Zhou Dynasty was because Houji was the first to be a feudal state, and King Wen and King Wu were ordered to be kings from heaven. Therefore, the three temples built to worship them were never destroyed. Together with the four temples dedicated to Gao, Zeng, Zu, and Bu, there were seven temples in total.
If Houji was not the first to receive a feudal state, and King Wen and King Wu were appointed kings by heaven, they should have destroyed the temple after the death of their descendants.
King Zhou Cheng achieved great achievements like King Wen and King Wu, formulated ritual music, and had great merits. However, his temple was not passed down from generation to generation. He only gave him corresponding titles according to his actions.
"Book of Rites" says that the temple of the late emperor was built within the gate to show that he did not dare to alienate his biological father.
We believe that Emperor Gao, who was ordered by heaven to bring peace to the world, should build the Taizu Temple and not destroy it from generation to generation. The subsequent emperors will also destroy the sacrificial temple when all their descendants die.
Nowadays, ancestral sacrificial temples are built everywhere, regardless of the order of Zhao and Mu. According to etiquette, their deities should be moved to the Taizu Temple and arranged in the order of Zhao and Mu.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
太上皇、孝惠、孝文、孝景庙皆亲尽宜毁，皇考庙亲未尽，如故。
大司马车骑将军许嘉等二十九人以为，孝文皇帝除诽谤，去肉刑，躬节俭，不受献，罪人不帑，不私其利，出美人，重绝人类，宾赐长老，收恤孤独，德厚侔天地，利泽施四海，宜为帝者太宗之庙。
廷尉忠以为，孝武皇帝改正朔，易服色，攘四夷，宜为世宗之庙。
谏大夫尹更始等十八人以为，皇考庙上序于昭穆，非正礼，宜毁。
于是上重其事，依违者一年，乃下诏曰： 盖闻王者祖有功而宗有德，尊尊之大义也；存亲庙四，亲亲之至恩也。高皇帝为天下诛暴除乱，受命而帝，功莫大焉。
孝文皇帝国为代王，诸吕作乱，海内摇动，然群臣黎庶靡不一意，北面而归心，犹谦辞固让而后即位，削乱秦之迹，兴三代之风，是以百姓晏然，咸获嘉福，德莫盛焉。高皇帝为汉太祖，孝文皇帝为太宗，世世承祀，传之无穷，朕甚乐之。
孝宣皇帝为孝昭皇帝后，于义一体。
孝景皇帝庙及皇考庙皆亲尽，其正礼仪。
玄成等奏曰： 祖宗之庙世世不毁，继祖以下，五庙而迭毁。
今高皇帝为太祖，孝文皇帝为太宗，孝景皇帝为昭，孝武皇帝为穆，孝昭皇帝与孝宣皇帝俱为昭。
皇考庙亲未尽。
太上、孝惠庙皆亲尽，宜毁。
太上庙主宜瘗园，孝惠皇帝为穆，主迁于太祖庙，寝园皆无复修。
translation: 
The temples dedicated to Emperor Taishang, Emperor Xiaohui, Emperor Xiaowen, and Emperor Xiaojing should be destroyed because all their descendants were dead. However, the temple of Emperor Kao remained as before because all his descendants were not dead.
Twenty-nine people including Xu Jia, the cavalry general of the Great Sima, believed that Emperor Xiaowen eliminated slander and reduced corporal punishment, personally practiced frugality, did not accept congratulatory gifts, punished guilty people less than his wife, was not greedy for profit, released beauties in the palace, was very cautious about eunuchs, treated the elderly with courtesy, adopted and cared for those without parents and children, had meritorious deeds comparable to heaven and earth, and was a man who extended his kindness and benefits to the world, so a temple to Emperor Taizong should be built for him.
Ting Weizhong believed that Emperor Xiaowu changed the Zhengshuo calendar, changed the color of people's clothes, and repeled the ethnic minorities on all sides. A temple to Sejong should be built for him.
Eighteen people including Yin Gengshi, the remonstrating official, believed that the emperor's Kao Temple was in the order of Zhao and Mu, which was not in line with the orthodox etiquette and should be destroyed.
Emperor Gao killed and eliminated rioters for the people of the world. He was ordered by heaven to become emperor. There is no greater merit than this. Emperor Xiaowen was the acting king in the feudal country. The people of the Lu family rebelled, and the world was in chaos and shock. However, the ministers and people all wanted to submit to Emperor Wen; but Emperor Wen was still very humble and resolutely resigned.
Then he ascended the throne and became emperor. Emperor Wen eliminated the chaotic situation like that of the Qin Dynasty and revived the harmonious customs of the three generations. Therefore, the people were able to live and work in peace and contentment. They all received the favor of Emperor Wen. No one can compare with Emperor Wen's merits and benevolence. I believe that Emperor Gao should be revered as Taizu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Xiaowen should be honored as Taizong. They should be worshiped by descendants from generation to generation and passed on forever. I am very happy to do so.
Emperor Xiaoxuan is the descendant of Emperor Xiaozhao, and they are the same from the perspective of etiquette and justice.
Emperor Xiaojing's sacrificial temple and Huangkao temple should be destroyed according to etiquette and law because all his descendants had died.
Wei Xuancheng and others wrote a letter saying: The ancestors' temples have not been destroyed for generations. From the ancestors down, the temples have been destroyed one after another for five generations.
Now Emperor Gao is Taizu, Emperor Xiaowen is Taizong, Emperor Xiaojing is Zhao, Emperor Xiaowu is Mu, Emperor Xiaozhao and Emperor Xiaoxuan are both Zhao.
The Huangkao Temple should not be destroyed because his descendants are still alive.
Taishang and Xiaohui temples have become estranged due to estranged family relationships and should be demolished.
The deity in the Taishang Emperor's Temple should be buried in the cemetery. Emperor Xiaohui should be Mu, and the deity should be moved to the Taizu Temple. No more mausoleums or gardens should be built.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
奏可。
议者又以为《清庙》之诗言交神之礼无不清静，今衣冠出游，有车骑之众，风雨之气，非所谓清静也。 祭不欲数，数则渎，渎则不敬。
宜复古礼，四时祭于庙，诸寝园日月间祀皆可勿复修。
上亦不改也。
明年，玄成复言： 古者制礼，别尊卑贵贱，国君之母非適不得配食，则荐于寝，身没而已。
陛下躬至孝，承天心，建祖宗，定迭毁，序昭穆，大礼既定，孝文太后、孝昭太后寝祠园宜如礼勿复修。
奏可。
后岁余，玄成薨，匡衡为丞相。
上寝疾，梦祖宗谴罢郡国庙，上少弟楚孝王亦梦焉。
translation: 
Their memorial was approved.
The ministers who discussed the matter also believed that the poem "Qing Temple" said that the etiquette of worshiping the god does not require silence, but now once a month, the emperor's clothes are carried in a procession between the mausoleum and the temple. There are many carriages and horses, wind and rain, which does not meet the requirements of silence. "The Book of Rites" says: Don't perform too many sacrifices. Too many sacrifices are blasphemy, and blasphemy means disrespecting the ancestors.
Therefore, the ancient ritual system should be restored, and sacrifices should be held in temples according to the four seasons. In addition, there is no need to build those mausoleums, gardens, or cities where sacrifices should be performed from time to time or once every few days.
The emperor will no longer change.
The next year, Wei Xuancheng wrote another letter saying: In ancient times, etiquette was formulated to distinguish the superior from the inferior. If the king's mother is not a direct descendant, she cannot be sacrificed in the temple with the former emperor. Then food should be offered in the mausoleum for sacrifice, and it will stop when the emperor dies.
Your Majesty is very filial and upholds the will of God. You have established ancestral temples and ancestral temples, and formulated a system for destroying and abandoning sacrificial temples one after another.
His memorial was approved.
More than a year later, Wei Xuancheng died and Kuang Heng became prime minister.
The emperor was lying ill in bed and dreamed that his ancestors had condemned him for destroying the temples of various feudal states. The emperor's younger brother, King Chu Xiao, also dreamed about this.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
上诏问衡，议欲复之，衡深言不可。
上疾久不平。衡惶恐，祷高祖、孝文、孝武庙曰： 嗣曾孙皇帝恭承洪业，夙夜不敢康宁，思育休烈，以章祖宗之盛功。
故动作接神，必因古圣之经。
往者有司以为前因所幸而立庙，将以系海内之心，非为尊祖严亲也。
今赖宗庙之灵，六合之内莫不附亲，庙宜一居京师，天子亲奉，郡国庙可止毋修。
皇帝祗肃旧礼，尊重神明，即告于祖宗而不敢失。
今皇帝有疾不豫，乃梦祖宗见戒以庙，楚王梦亦有其序。
皇帝悼惧。即诏臣衡复修立。
谨案上世帝王承祖祢之大礼，皆不敢不自亲。
郡国吏卑贱，不可使独承。
translation: 
The emperor went down to Shao and asked Kuang Heng what to do, and discussed the idea of ​​re-establishing sacrificial temples in various feudal states. Kuang Heng tried his best to dissuade him, thinking that this could not be done.
The emperor's illness could not be cured for a long time. Kuang Heng was very scared and prayed in the temple of Emperor Gaozu, Emperor Xiaowen and Emperor Xiaowu: "The great-grandsons of future generations will inherit the great achievements of their ancestors and work hard day and night, not daring to enjoy themselves. They want to carry forward the legacy of their ancestors and show their great achievements."
Therefore, every move and every move to welcome the Lord God must follow the scriptures of the ancient saints.
In the past, officials in charge believed that the purpose of establishing ancestral temples in places where the emperor had visited was to win over the hearts of the people at home, not to honor ancestors and fathers.
Now, relying on the gods of the ancestral temple, no one in the world dares not to surrender. Therefore, the ancestral temples should be built in the capital, and the emperor personally presides over the sacrifices. The temples in various feudal states can stop being built.
The emperor respected the rituals of the past and respected the gods of his ancestors, so he appealed to his ancestors and did not dare to be disrespectful.
Now the emperor was ill and could not recover for a long time. He also dreamed that his ancestors warned him about the destruction of the ancestral temple. King Chu's dream also had this meaning.
The emperor was very frightened and ordered me to rebuild the temple.
I respectfully believe that when the previous emperors presided over the sacrifices to the ancestors and gods, the greatest etiquette was that they had to be present in person.
The status of officials in the vassal states is low, and they cannot be left alone to undertake ancestor worship.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
又祭祀之义以民为本，间者岁数不登，百姓困乏，郡国庙无以修立。
《礼》，凶年则岁事不举，以祖祢之意为不乐，是以不敢复。
如诚非礼义之中，违祖宗之心，咎尽在臣衡，当受其殃，大被其疾，队在沟渎之中。
皇帝至孝肃慎，宜蒙祐福。
唯高皇帝、孝文皇帝、孝武皇帝省察，右飨皇帝之孝，开赐皇帝眉寿亡疆，令所疾日瘳，平复反常，永保宗庙，天下幸甚！
又告谢毁庙曰： 往者大臣以为，在昔帝王承祖宗之休典，取象于天地，天序五行，人亲五属，天子奉天，故率其意而尊其制。
是以禘尝之序，靡有过五。
受命之君躬接于天，万世不堕。
继烈以下，五庙而迁，上陈太祖，间岁而祫，其道应天，故福禄永终。
translation: 
In addition, the essence of sacrifice is based on the common people. In the past few years, there were many bad harvests, the people lived in poverty, and the sacrificial temples in various feudal states could not be built.
"Li" says that in bad years, there should be no sacrifices, because the ancestors and gods would be unhappy and would not dare to hold them.
If it is true that the court's actions were unethical and contrary to the wishes of our ancestors, then the blame lies entirely on Kuang Heng and I. I should suffer disaster, fall seriously ill, and die in a ditch.
The current emperor is very filial and sincere, and should be protected and blessed by his ancestors.
I hope that Emperor Gao, Emperor Xiaowen, and Emperor Xiaowu can see clearly, bless the filial emperor, and grant the emperor a long life, so that he can recover from his illness soon, return to his normal appearance, and protect the ancestral temple forever, then the people of the world will be very lucky!
He also prayed about the destruction of the temple and said: In the past, the ministers believed that the previous emperors followed the beautiful laws passed down by their ancestors and imitated the affairs of heaven and earth. There are five elements in the order of heaven, and those who are close to people are within the five obediences. The emperor obeys the will of heaven, so he obeys its will and respects its system.
Therefore, the sequence of sacrifices and sacrifices does not exceed five generations.
The founding monarch, who was ordered by heaven, approached heaven personally, so his temple would never be destroyed.
For the descendants of monarchs who inherit the foundation, their sacrificial temples will change after five generations. Their gods will move to the Taizu Temple and hold joint sacrifices every other year. This method is in accordance with God's will, so they can enjoy all the blessings and wealth for the rest of their lives.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
太上皇非受命而属尽，义则当迁。
又以为孝莫大于严父，故父之所尊子不敢不承，父之所异子不敢同。
礼，公子不得为母信，为后则于子祭，于孙止，尊祖严父之义也。
寝日四上食，园庙间祠，皆可亡修。
皇帝思慕悼惧，未敢尽从。
惟念高皇帝圣德茂盛，受命溥将，钦若稽古，承顺天心，子孙本支，陈锡亡疆。
诚以为迁庙合祭，久长之策，高皇帝之意，乃敢不听？
即以令日迁太上、孝惠庙，孝文太后、孝昭太后寝，将以昭祖宗之德，顺天人之序，定无穷之业。
今皇帝未受兹福，乃有不能共职之疾。
translation: 
The Supreme Emperor was not the founding monarch who was ordered by heaven. After the death of his descendants, his sacrificial temple should be moved according to etiquette and law.
He also believed that the greatest filial piety is to respect his father, so his son would not dare not uphold what his father believed in, and his son would not dare to agree if his father disapproved of it.
Etiquette and law stipulate that a son is not allowed to do too much for his mother in order to respect his father. If he is a descendant of the clan, his son can offer sacrifices, but he does not need to offer sacrifices to his grandchildren. This is to respect his ancestors and father.
Every time four sacrifices are offered to the mausoleum, and the temple in the cemetery does not need to be built anymore to carry out sacrifices from time to time.
The emperor longed for his late emperor, was grieved and fearful, and did not dare to act in full compliance with etiquette.
I just think of the noble benevolence of Emperor Gao, who was ordered by the vast heaven to respect the good and the ancients, and to obey the will of heaven. The descendants of the emperor will receive abundant blessings for all generations.
I really think that moving the gods of the ancestral temple together for joint worship is a long-term solution. How dare future generations disobey Emperor Gao's will?
To create auspiciousness, the gods of Emperor Taishang and Emperor Xiaohui were moved into the ancestral temple, and the gods of Empress Dowager Xiaowen and Empress Dowager Xiaozhao were moved into the mausoleum to show the benevolence of the ancestors, comply with the order of heaven and man, and stabilize the endless inheritance for generations.
Now the emperor has not received such a blessing, but he is ill and cannot handle political affairs.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
皇帝愿复修承祀，臣衡等咸以为礼不得。
如不合高皇帝、孝惠皇帝、孝文皇帝、孝武皇帝、孝昭皇帝、孝宣皇帝、太上皇、孝文太后、孝昭太后之意，罪尽在臣衡等，当受其咎。
今皇帝尚未平，诏中朝臣具复毁庙之文。
臣衡中朝臣咸复以为天子之祀义有所断，礼有所承，违统背制，不可以奉先祖，皇天不祐，鬼神不飨。
《六艺》所载皆言不当，无所依缘以作其文。
事如失指，罪乃在臣衡，当深受其殃。
皇帝宜厚蒙祉福，嘉气日兴，疾病平复，永保宗庙，与天亡极，群生百神，有所归息。
诸庙皆同文。
translation: 
The emperor hopes to build another ancestral temple and host sacrifices. The ministers and I think this is not in line with etiquette.
If our suggestions are not in line with the wishes of Emperor Gao, Emperor Xiaohui, Emperor Xiaowen, Emperor Xiaowu, Emperor Xiaozhao, Emperor Xiaoxuan, Emperor Taishang, Queen Mother Xiaowen, and Queen Mother Xiaozhao, then the fault lies with us ministers and we should be blamed.
Now that the emperor has not recovered from his illness, he issued an edict and ordered the ministers of the court to write a detailed article to the ancestors about the destruction of the temple.
Kuang Heng, the minister, and the ministers in the DPRK answered the emperor's questions. We all believed that the emperor's sacrificial activities must be based on etiquette and uphold the etiquette. If it violates tradition and etiquette, it will not be possible to worship the ancestors. The emperor and heaven will not bless him, and the spirits of his ancestors in heaven will not enjoy his offerings.
The rituals recorded in the "Six Classics" all say that it is inappropriate to build temples in various places.
We have no basis to follow the wishes of our ancestors and write this article about destroying temples.
If the sacrificial matters are not in accordance with the will of the ancestors, then the fault will be all on the minister Kuangheng, and I should suffer punishment and disaster. The emperor should be blessed by his ancestors, with better and better luck, and be cured of his illness, so that he can worship the ancestral temple forever, as long as heaven and earth, so that the god of all things in the world can return to his home.
Each ancestral temple uses the same sacrificial text.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
久之，上疾连年，遂尽复诸所罢寝庙园，皆修祀如故，初，上定迭毁礼，独尊孝文庙为太宗，而孝武庙亲未尽，故未毁。
上于是乃复申明之，曰： 孝宣皇帝尊孝武庙曰世宗，损益之礼，不敢有与焉。
他皆如旧制。
唯郡国庙遂废云。
元帝崩，衡奏言： 前以上体不平，故复诸所罢祠，卒不蒙福。
案卫思后、戾太子、戾后园，亲未尽。孝惠、孝景庙亲尽，宜毁。
及太上皇、孝文、孝昭太后、昭灵后、昭哀后、武哀王祠，请悉罢，勿奉。
奏可。
初，高后时患臣下妄非议先帝宗庙寝园官，故定著令，敢有擅议者弃市。
至元帝改制，蠲除此令。
translation: 
After a long time, the emperor fell ill for many years, so he issued an edict to restore all the mausoleums, sacrificial temples, and gardens that had been abolished before, and repaired and worshiped as before. At the beginning, the emperor established a system of destroying temples one after another, and only respected the Xiaowen Temple as the Taizong Temple. The Xiaowu Temple was not destroyed because all his descendants had survived.
The emperor then reiterated his statement: Emperor Xiaoxuan respected the Xiaowu Temple as the emperor's emperor, and I dare not get involved in increasing or decreasing the etiquette involved.
Other sacrificial matters will be handled according to the original system.
But the ancestral temples of various feudal states were finally abandoned.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Kuang Heng wrote another letter saying: Previously, because the emperor was ill, the canceled temples were fully restored, but the emperor was not blessed with longevity in the end.
According to the investigation of Empress Wei Si, Prince Li, and Houyuan Li, all their descendants are not dead yet and can be preserved. However, all descendants of Xiaohui Temple and Xiaojing Temple are dead and can be destroyed.
As well as the temples dedicated to Emperor Taishang, Emperor Xiaowen, Empress Dowager Xiaozhao, Empress Zhaoling, Empress Zhaoai and King Wuai, please cancel them together and no longer worship them.
His memorial was approved.
At the beginning, when I was a queen, I was worried that my ministers would criticize the ancestral temples, mausoleums, gardens and cities of the ancestors, so I issued an explicit order to punish anyone who dared to criticize without authorization.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, the system was changed and this law was revoked.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
成帝时以无继嗣，河平元年复复太上皇寝庙园，世世奉祠。
昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后并食于太上寝庙如故，又复擅议宗庙之命。
成帝崩，哀帝即位。
丞相孔光、大司空何武奏言： 永光五年制书，高皇帝为汉太祖，孝文皇帝为太宗。
建昭五年制书，孝武皇帝为世宗。
损益之礼，不敢有与。
臣愚以为迭毁之次，当以时定，非令所为擅议宗庙之意也。
臣请与群臣杂议。
奏可。于是，光禄勋彭宣、詹事满昌、博士左咸等五十三人皆以为继祖宗以下，五庙而迭毁，后虽有贤君，犹不得与祖宗并列。
子孙虽欲褒大显扬而立之，鬼神不飨也。
孝武皇帝虽有功烈，亲尽宜殿。
translation: 
When he became emperor, he had no heirs, so in the first year of Heping, the emperor's mausoleum and temple were restored and worshiped from generation to generation.
The gods of Empress Zhaoling, King Wuai, and Empress Zhaoai were brought together to the mausoleum of the Supreme Emperor to be worshiped and worshiped as before. The law of killing those who abandon the city if they talk about the ancestral temple was restored.
After the death of Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai ascended the throne.
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu reported: In the fifth year of Yongguang's reign, the imperial court issued a document and ordered Emperor Gao to be called Taizu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Xiaowen to be Taizong.
In the fifth year of Jianzhao's reign, a book was issued and ordered to call Emperor Xiaowu Shizong.
We dare not participate in the addition or deletion of these important rituals.
We believe that the order in which temples should be destroyed one after another should be determined according to the situation at that time. This does not mean that people should criticize the ancestral temple without authorization.
Please allow me to discuss this matter with the ministers.
After the memorial was approved, fifty-three people, including Guang Luxun, Peng Xuan, Zhan Shi Manchang, and Dr. Zuo Xian, all believed that the emperors from the ancestors on down should destroy the sacrificial temples after the fifth generation. Although the descendants have wise monarchs, they cannot be equal to the ancestors.
Although future generations want to build a temple for him in order to promote him and glorify him, his gods will not come to enjoy the sacrifices.
Although Emperor Xiaowu had outstanding achievements, the temple for worship should be destroyed after the death of his own children and grandchildren.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
太仆王舜、中垒校尉刘歆议曰：
臣闻周室既衰，四夷并侵，猃狁最强，于今匈奴是也。
至宣王而伐之，诗人美而颂之曰 薄伐猃狁，至于太原 ，又曰 啴々推推，如霆如雷，显允方叔，征伐猃狁，荆蛮来威 ，故称中兴。
及至幽王，犬戎来伐，杀幽王，取宗器。
自是之后，南夷与北夷交侵，中国不绝如线。
《春秋》纪齐桓南伐楚，北伐山戎，孔子曰： 微管仲，吾其被发左衽矣。 是故弃桓之过而录其功，以为伯首。
及汉兴，冒顿始强，破东胡，禽月氏，并其土地，地广兵强，为中国害。
南越尉佗总百粤，自称帝。
translation: 
Wang Shun, the imperial servant, and Liu Xin, the lieutenant of the Zhongbao School, discussed it and reported to the emperor:
We heard that after the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, ethnic minorities from all directions invaded together, and the most powerful ones were the Xiongnu, who are now the Xiongnu.
When King Xuan of the Zhou Dynasty attacked them, poets wrote poems praising them, saying: "The army was numerous and powerful, and the attack was as fast as thunder. Fang Shu showed his kindness, and he attacked the pickers. The barbarians in Nanjing were also frightened and came to worship, so King Xuan was called the Lord of Zhongxing."
When King You of Zhou Dynasty arrived, Quan Rong came to attack the Central Plains, killed King You and took away the ancestral temple sacrificial vessels.
From then on, the Southern Barbarians and the Northern Barbarians invaded and invaded the Central Plains. The Central Plains dynasties were inextricably linked and extremely dangerous.
"Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Huan of Qi attacked Chu in the south and Shanrong in the north. Confucius praised him and said: If it were not for Guan Zhong to help Duke Huan of Qi to attack the barbarians, all of us would have become barbarians with our clothes left open. Therefore, Confucius let go of Duke Huan of Qi's sins and recorded his achievements as the leader of the five hegemons.
When the Han Dynasty was established, Maodun Chanyu had just become powerful, conquered Donghu, captured and killed the Yuezhi king, and annexed their land. The vast territory and powerful army became a scourge to the Central Plains.
Wei Tuo, king of South Vietnam, commanded hundreds of Guangdong kingdoms and called himself emperor.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
故中国虽平，犹有四夷之患，且无宁岁。
一方有急，三面救之，是天下皆动而被其害也。
孝文皇帝厚以货赂，与结和亲，犹侵暴无已。
甚者，兴师十余万众，近屯京师及四边，岁发屯备虏，其为患久矣，非一世之渐也。
诸侯郡守连匈奴及百粤以为逆者非一人也。
匈奴所杀郡守、都尉，略取人民，不可胜数。
孝武皇帝愍中国罢劳无安宁之时，乃遣大将军、骠骑、伏波、楼船之属，南灭百粤，起七郡；北攘匈奴，降昆邪十万之众，置五属国，起朔方，以夺其肥饶之地；东伐朝鲜，起玄菟、乐浪，以断匈奴之左臂；西伐大宛，并三十六国，结乌孙，起敦煌、酒泉、张掖，以隔婼羌，裂匈奴之右肩。
单于孤特，远遁于幕北。
四垂无事，斥地远境，起十余郡。
translation: 
Therefore, although the Central Plains was pacified, the Han Dynasty was still worried about the invasion of ethnic minorities from all sides, and there was no peace yet.
If there is an emergency war on one side, people from all three sides will go to rescue it, thus affecting the whole world and causing disaster to all.
Emperor Xiaowen gave a lot of property to the Xiongnu and made peace and alliance with them, but they still continued to invade the Central Plains.
When the situation was particularly serious, the Huns dispatched more than 100,000 troops, stationed close to the capital, and besieged the surrounding borders. The imperial court sent troops every year to defend against the Huns. The Huns had harmed the Central Plains for a long time, and it was not formed in one generation.
The governors of the vassal states colluded with the Xiongnu and Baiyue, and more than one person betrayed the imperial court.
The Xiongnu killed many Han Dynasty governors and captains, and robbed countless people.
Emperor Xiaowu felt sorry for the people in the Central Plains who were exhausted and had no peaceful children, so he sent General Wei Qing, General Huo Qubing, General Fubo Lu Bode, General Lou Chuan and others to conquer Baiyue in the south and establish seven counties; he attacked the Xiongnu in the north, captured 100,000 people from Kunxie, and established five vassal states. He set up Shuofang City and captured the fertile land of the Xiongnu; he attacked North Korea in the east, built Xuantu and Lelang counties, and cut off the left arm of the Xiongnu; he attacked Dayuan in the west, annexed thirty-six small kingdoms in Nahu, connected Wusun, and established Dunhuang, Jiuquan, and Zhangye counties to isolate Waqiang and cut off the right shoulder of the Xiongnu.
Chanyu was isolated and helpless and fled far to the north of the desert.
Emperor Wu finally stopped fighting on all sides, expanded the territory of the Central Plains, and established more than ten counties.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
功业既定，乃封丞相为富民侯，以大安天下，富实百姓，其规橅可见。
又招集天下贤俊，与协心同谋，兴制度，改正朔，易服色，立天下之祠，建封禅，殊官号，存周后，定诸侯之制，永无逆争之心，至今累世赖之。
单于守藩，百蛮服从，万世之基也，中兴之功未有高焉者也。
高帝建大业，为太祖；孝文皇帝德至厚也，为文太宗；孝武皇帝功至著也，为武世宗，此孝宣帝所以发德音也。
《礼记·王制》及《春秋穀梁传》，天子七庙，诸侯五，大夫三，士二。
天子七日而殡，七月而葬；诸侯五日而殡，五月而葬。此丧事尊卑之序也，与庙数相应。
translation: 
After establishing his merits, Emperor Wu made the prime minister the Marquis of the Rich People, to stabilize the world and make the people rich. The standardized laws can still be seen.
Emperor Wu also recruited the wise and talented people from all over the world to help him plan and establish systems, change the Zhengshuo calendar, change the color of people's clothes, build temples for heaven and earth, enshrine Mount Tai, change the names of palaces, preserve the outstanding methods of the Zhou Dynasty, and formulate a system of enfeoffing the princes so that they will never have the desire to betray and fight for the throne. Up to now, generations of people still rely on it.
Shan Yu proclaimed himself a minister and served as the guard of the Han Dynasty, and all the barbarians obeyed the orders of the Han Dynasty. This was the foundation of eternity, and no achievements such as Zhongxing could compare with this.
Emperor Gao established the great cause of the Han Dynasty and was named Taizu; Emperor Xiaowen was the most benevolent and virtuous, and was named Taizong Wen; Emperor Xiaowu made the greatest achievements and was named Emperor Wu; this was the voice formulated by Emperor Xiaoxuan to promote benevolence.
"Book of Rites: Kingship" and "Spring and Autumn Gu Liang Zhuan" say that the emperor should have seven sacrificial temples, five for princes, three for officials, and two for scholars.
After the death of the emperor, the coffin was kept for seven days and he was buried after the seventh month; after the death of the princes, the coffin was kept for five days and he was buried after the fifth month. This is the order of honor and inferiority in handling funerals, which corresponds to the number of temples.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
其文曰： 天子三昭三穆，与太祖之庙而七；诸侯二昭二穆，与太祖之庙而五。 故德厚者流光，德薄者流卑。
《春秋左氏传》曰： 名位不同，礼亦异数。
自上以下，降杀以两，礼也。
七者，其正法数，可常数者也。宗不在此数中。
宗，变也，苟有功德则宗之，不可预为设数。
故于殷，太甲为太宗，大戊曰中宗，武丁曰高宗。
周公为《毋逸》之戒，举殷三宗以劝成王。
繇是言之，宗无数也，然则所以劝帝者之功德博矣。
以七庙言之，孝武皇帝未宜殿；以所宗言之，则不可谓无功德。
《礼记》祀典曰： 夫圣王之制祀也，功施于民则祀之，以劳定国则祀之，能救大灾则祀之。
窃观孝武皇帝，功德皆兼而有焉。
凡在于异姓，犹将特祀之，况于先祖？
或说天子五庙无见文，又说中宗、高宗者，宗其道而毁其庙。
名与实异，非尊德贵功之意也。
translation: 
The text is: The emperor's sacrificial temple has three Zhao temples and three Mu temples, and there are seven including Taizu's temple; the princes' sacrificial temples have two Zhao temples and two Mu temples, plus Taizu's temple, there are five in total. Therefore, people with the most benevolent virtues will be famous in future generations, and people with shallow virtues will not be blessed.
"The Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Zhuan" says: The names and status are different, and the etiquette is also different.
From the emperor at the top to the princes at the bottom, there are two less temples for each level. This is a ritual system.
The seven temples are a correct number and a constant. Zong is not among these numbers.
Zong can be flexible. If he has meritorious deeds, he will be regarded as a Zong. He cannot be reserved for him in the number of ancestral temples first.
Therefore, in the Yin Dynasty, Taijia was called Taizong, Dawu was called Zhongzong, and Wuding was called Gaozong.
Zhou Gong wrote "Wu Yi" to exhort him to become a king, and listed the three sects of the Yin Dynasty.
From this aspect, Zong is not included in the ancestral temple, but the merits and virtues it uses to exhort the emperor are very broad.
According to the fact that the emperor should have seven sacrificial temples, Emperor Xiaowu's sacrificial temple should not be destroyed; from the perspective of honoring him as a sect, it cannot be said that he has no merits and virtues.
The Sacrifice Code of the Book of Rites says: When a wise king formulates sacrificial rituals, he must sacrifice those whose merits have been extended to the people, those who have stabilized the country through hard work, and those who can save the people from disasters.
When we examine the life of Emperor Xiaowu, he has both merits and virtues.
A person with a different surname who has merit and virtue must be specially sacrificed to him, let alone the ancestor emperor?
Some people say that the emperor wanted to have five temples, but there is no written record. They also say that Zhongzong and Gaozong admired their merits and destroyed their temples.
This is inconsistent with the name and reality, and it does not mean respecting benevolence and attaching importance to merit.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
《诗》云： 蔽芾甘棠，勿剪勿伐，邵伯所茇。
思其人犹爱其树，况宗其道而毁其庙乎？
迭毁之礼自有常法，无殊功异德，固以亲疏相推及。
至祖宗之序，多少之数，经传无明文，至尊至重，难以疑文虚说定也。
孝宣皇帝举公卿之议，用众儒之谋，既以为世宗之庙，建之万世，宣布天下。
臣愚以为孝武皇帝功烈如彼，孝宣皇帝崇立之如此，不宜毁。
上览其议而从之。
制曰： 太仆舜、中垒校尉歆议可。
歆又以为 礼，去事有杀，故《春秋外传》曰： 日祭，月祀，时享，岁贡，终王 祖祢则日祭，曾高则月祀，二祧则时享，坛墠则岁贡，大禘则终王。
translation: 
"The Book of Songs" says: Don't cut down the lush Gantang, it was planted by Shao Bo.
If you miss a virtuous person and even care for the tree he planted, how can you admire his kindness but destroy his temple?
There is a common procedure for destroying and abandoning sacrificial temples one after another. There is no special merit or virtue. Of course, it must be calculated based on closeness and distance.
As for the order of ancestors and the number of temples to be sacrificed, there is no clear record in the scriptures. It is difficult to decide such a supreme and important event as offering sacrifices to the late emperor based on empty and questionable statements.
At the beginning, Emperor Xiaoxuan praised the opinions of the ministers, adopted the plans of many Confucian scholars, and decided to build the temple of King Sejong of Emperor Wu. After being passed down to all generations, it has been declared to the world.
We believe that Emperor Xiaowu's achievements were so great and Emperor Xiaoxuan respected him so much that the temple dedicated to Emperor Wu should not be destroyed.
After reading their suggestions, the emperor adopted them.
A document was promulgated and written saying: The plan of Imperial Servant Wang Shun and Lieutenant of Zhong base Liu Xin can be implemented.
Liu Xin also believed that according to etiquette, funerals should be handled with equal distinctions, so "Spring and Autumn Gaiden" said: Every sacrifice should be made once a month, a sacrifice should be held from time to time, a tribute should be paid every year, and a big sacrifice should be held when the king dies. Ancestors should sacrifice every time, great ancestors and great ancestors should sacrifice once a month, distant ancestors should enjoy sacrifices at all times, altars and other sacrificial places should pay tribute every year, and large sacrifices should be held when the king dies.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
德盛而游广，亲亲之杀也；弥远则弥尊，故禘为重矣。
孙居王父之处，正昭穆，则孙常与祖相代，此迁庙之杀也。
圣人于其祖，出于情矣，礼无所不顺，故无毁庙。
自贡禹建迭毁之议，惠、景及太上寝园废而为虚，失礼意矣。
至平帝元始中，大司马王莽奏： 本始元年丞相义等议，谥孝宣皇帝亲曰悼园，置邑三百家，至元康元年，丞相相等奏，父为士，子为天子，祭以天子，悼园宜称尊号曰 皇考 ，立庙，益故奉园民满千六百家，以为县。
臣愚以为皇考庙本不当立，累世奉之，非是。
又孝文太后南陵、孝昭太后云陵园，虽前以礼不复修，陵名未正。
谨与大司徒晏等百四十七人议，皆曰孝宣皇帝以兄孙继统为孝昭皇帝后，以数，故孝元世以孝景皇帝及皇考庙亲未尽，不毁。
此两统贰父，违于礼制。
translation: 
The tradition of virtue is widespread, and there are differences in respecting different ancestors and relatives; the more distant the ancestors are, the more they must be respected, so the persimmon sacrifice is particularly important.
After the death of the descendants, the god is placed with the royal father. To be upright and respectful, the descendants and ancestors often have to replace each other. This is the difference when moving to the ancestral temple.
Saints offer sacrifices to their ancestors out of true feelings and there is nothing inappropriate in the etiquette, so they do not destroy or abandon the sacrificial temples.
Since Gong Yu advocated that the sacrificial temples should be destroyed one after another, the sacrificial temples of Emperor Xiaohui, Emperor Xiaojing, and Emperor Taishang were all abandoned as ruins, which was inconsistent with etiquette and justice.
In the first year of Emperor Ping's reign, Grand Sima Wang Mang reported: In the first year of this year, Prime Minister Cai Yi and others planned to call the place where Emperor Xiaoxuan's father was worshiped mourning garden and set up three hundred restaurants. In the first year of Yuankang, Prime Minister Wei Xiang and others submitted a memorial, saying that his father was an ordinary scholar and his son became the emperor. The sacrifices to his father should also follow the emperor's etiquette. The mourning garden should be respectfully called "Huang Kao". A sacrificial temple was built, and the original number of residents in the garden increased to 1,600 families, forming a county.
I think the Huang Kao Temple should not have been built in the first place and it is not correct to keep it for generations.
In addition, although Empress Dowager Xiaowen's Nanling Mausoleum and Empress Dowager Xiaozhao's Yunling Garden were no longer repaired according to etiquette and law, the names of the mausoleums are incorrect.
I respectfully discussed with Grand Situ Yan and other 147 people, and we all believed that Emperor Xiaoxuan was the grandson of Emperor Xiaozhao's brother and succeeded him as emperor. According to etiquette, in the past during the reign of Emperor Xiaoyuan, all the descendants of Emperor Xiaojing Temple and Huangkao Temple were not destroyed, so the temples were not destroyed.
In this way, the country has two roots and two founding fathers, which is not in line with the etiquette system.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
案义奏亲谥曰 悼 ，裁置奉邑，皆应经义。
相奏悼园称 皇考 ，立庙，益民为县，违离祖统，乖缪本义。
父为士，子为天子，祭以天子者，乃谓若虞舜、夏禹、殷汤、周文、汉之高祖受命而王者也，非谓继祖统为后者也。
臣请皇高祖考庙奉明园毁勿修，罢南陵、云陵为县。
奏可。
司徒掾班彪曰：汉承亡秦绝学之后，祖宗之制因时施宜。
自元、成后学者蕃滋，贡禹毁宗庙，匡衡改郊兆，何武定三公，后皆数复，故纷纷不定。
何者？
礼文缺微，古今异制，各为一家，未易可偏定也。
考观诸儒之议，刘歆博而笃矣。
translation: 
At that time, Cai Yi asked the emperor's father Mi to give him the title. The formation of the formation and the establishment of the gardens and towns to be guarded are all in line with the classics and meanings.
The Prime Minister of Wei requested that the mourning garden be called Huang Kao, a sacrificial temple be built, and the number of people who guarded the cemetery be increased to form a county. This far deviated from the original tradition of the ancestors and was inconsistent with etiquette and justice.
When the father is an ordinary scholar and the son becomes the emperor, he must sacrifice his father according to the emperor's etiquette. This refers to people like Yu Shun, Xia Yu, Yin Tang, King Wen of Zhou, and Han Gaozu who were ordered by heaven to proclaim themselves kings and found the country. It does not refer to people who inherit the inheritance of their ancestors and become queens.
I request Emperor Gaozu to destroy the Fengming Garden where the temples are visited and no longer repair them. Nanling and Yunling should be abolished and built into counties.
Wang Mang's memorial was approved.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: The Han Dynasty was founded after the Qin Dynasty extinguished scholarship, and the ancestral system was determined according to the times.
Since Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng, there have been more and more scholars. Gong Yu proposed to destroy the ancestral temples one after another, Kuang Heng changed the Jiao Zhao, and He Wu decided on the Three Gongs. Later, there were many iterations, and there was no customization.
What is the reason?
This is because the etiquette documents are missing and the ancient and modern systems are different and unique. It is not easy to formulate them all.
Looking at the plans of those Confucian scholars, Liu Xin can be said to be profound and profound.


