Chunk 0: 
original: 
四年五月，莽曰： 保成师友祭酒唐林、故谏议祭酒琅邪纪逡，孝弟忠恕，敬上爱下，博通旧闻，德行醇备，至于黄发，靡有愆失。
其封林为建德侯，逡为封德侯，位皆特进，见礼如三公。
赐弟一区，钱三百万，授几杖焉。
六月，更授诸侯茅土于明堂，曰： 予制作地理，建封五等，考之经艺，合之传记，通于义理，论之思之，至于再三，自始建国之元以来九年于兹，乃今定矣。
予亲设文石之平，陈菁茅四色之土，钦告于岱宗泰社后土、先祖先妣，以班授之。
各就厥国，养牧民人，用成功业。
其在缘边，若江南，非诏所召，遣侍于帝城者，纳言掌货大夫且调都内故钱，予其禄，公岁八十万，侯、伯四十万，子、男二十万。
然复不能尽得。
莽好空言，慕古法，多封爵人，性实遴啬，托以地理未定，故且先赋茅土，用慰喜封者。
是岁，复明六管之令。
每一管下，为设科条防禁，犯者罪至死，吏民抵罪者浸众。
又一切调上公以下诸有奴婢者，率一口出钱三千六百，天下愈愁，盗贼起。
纳言冯常以六管谏，莽大怒，免常官。
置执法左右刺奸。
选用能吏侯霸等分督六尉、六队，如汉刺史，与三公士郡一人从事。
临淮瓜田仪等为盗贼，依阻会稽长州，琅邪女子吕母亦起。
初，吕母子为县吏，为宰所冤杀。
母散家财，以酤酒买兵弩，阴厚贫穷少年，得百余人，遂攻海曲县，杀其宰以祭子墓。
引兵入海，其众浸多，后皆万数。
translation: 
In May of the fourth year, Wang Mang said: "Baocheng's masters and friends offered wine to Tang Lin and Yuan Jianyi to offer wine to Langye County. He was a man of discipline, filial to his parents, respectful to his elder brothers, loyal to things, benevolent to others, respectful of the court, and caring for the people. He was widely familiar with ancient books, and his virtues were pure and perfect until he was old, without any fault."
Lu Ta was granted the title of Jianshan Fortress, and Xian Zhi was granted the title of Dehou. They were both given the rank of special advance. The etiquette for receiving them was the same as meeting the three princes.
He was rewarded with a big house, three million in money, and the treatment of a pen and a cane.
In June, he again awarded the thatched soil that symbolized the feudal state to the princes in the Mingtang, saying: I planned the land system and the five feudal princes according to the text of the classics, in line with the explanations of the classics, and through the principles of the classics. After thinking and discussing again and again, it has been almost nine years since the first year of the founding of the country, and it was officially finalized today.
I personally set up the aragonite steps, displayed jingmao and four-color soil, prayed respectfully to Mount Tai, the national clan, the God of the Earth and my ancestors, and then conferred it.
Each returned to his own feudal state to educate and discipline the people in order to establish meritorious deeds.
Those princes in the border areas or in the Jiangnan area, although they were not summoned by Shaoling but were sent to the capital to serve the emperor, Na Yan was in charge of the goods and the money in the capital was allocated to distribute their salaries. The duke was 800,000 yuan per year, the marquis and earl were 400,000 yuan per year, and the viscount and baron were 200,000 yuan per year.
Still can't quite get it though.
Wang Mang liked to talk empty words, envied the ancient system, and often granted titles to people. His character was actually stingy, and he used the undetermined land plan as an excuse, so he first granted the title of thatched land to symbolize the feudal state to comfort those who liked the title.
This year, six financial and economic management systems were reaffirmed.
Every time a management system is issued, laws and regulations must be set up to prevent it. Those who violate it may even be executed for the most serious crimes. Officials and civilians are punished for more crimes.
He also levied a tax on all those who kept slaves and slaves, each slave had to pay 3,600 yuan. The people of the world became more resentful and thieves rose up.
Nayan and Feng Chang advised him on the six management systems. Wang Mang was furious and removed Feng Chang from his official position.
Set up law enforcement on the left and law enforcement on the right.
Select capable officials, Hou Baren, to supervise the Sixth Lieutenant and the Sixth Team respectively. Their powers are like the governors of the Han Dynasty, and they will accompany one person from each county to handle relevant matters.
Guatianyi and others from Linhuai County acted as thieves and occupied Changzhouyuan, the capital of Kuaiji County. Lu Mu, a woman from Langxie County, also started to rebel.
At first, Lu's mother's son was a county official and was unjustly killed by the county magistrate.
Lu's mother used her family's property to buy wine, meat, and weapons. She secretly treated poor young men and gained more than a hundred people, then attacked Haiqu County, killed the county magistrate and went to worship her son's grave.
Then she led her troops to the sea, and her team gradually grew, eventually totaling tens of thousands of people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
莽遣使者即赦盗贼，还言： 盗贼解，辄复合。
问其故，皆曰愁法禁烦苛，不得举手。
力作所得，不足以给贡税。
闭门自守，又坐邻伍铸钱挟铜，奸吏因以愁民。
民穷，悉起为盗贼。
莽大怒，免之。
其或顺指，言 民骄黠当诛 。及言 时运适然，且灭不久 ，莽说，辄迁之。
是岁八月，莽亲之南郊，铸作威斗。
威斗者，以五石铜为之，若北斗，长二尺五寸，欲以厌胜众兵。
既成，令司命负之，莽出在前，入在御旁。
铸斗日，大寒，百官人马有冻死者。
五年正月朔，北军南门灾。
以大司马司允费兴为荆州牧，见，问到部方略，兴对曰： 荆、扬之民率依阻山泽，以渔采为业。
间者，国张六管，税山泽，妨夺民之利，连年久旱，百姓饥穷，故为盗贼。
兴到部，欲令明晓告盗贼归田里，假贷犁牛种食，阔其租赋，几可以解释安集。
莽怒，免兴官。
天下吏以不得奉禄，并为奸利，郡尹县宰家累千金。
莽下诏曰： 详考始建国二年胡虏猾夏以来，诸军吏及缘边吏大夫以上为奸利增产致富者，收其家所有财产五分之四，以助边急。
公府士驰传天下，考覆贪饕，开吏告其将，奴婢告其主，几以禁奸，奸愈甚。
皇孙功崇公宗坐自画容貌，被服天子衣冠，刻印三：一曰 维祉冠存己夏处南山臧薄冰 ，二曰 肃圣宝继 ，三曰 德封昌图 。
translation: 
Wang Mang sent an envoy to pardon the thieves on the spot. The envoy came back and said: The thieves dispersed and often reunited again.
When asked about the reason, they all said that they were unable to take action because of the cumbersome and strict prohibitions.
The income from hard work is not enough to pay taxes.
If you keep the door closed and stay safe, you will be implicated by your neighbors who secretly mint money and hide copper, and the traitors will use it to blackmail the people.
The people had no choice but to turn into thieves.
Wang Mang was furious and removed them from their official positions.
Some of them followed his intention and said that the rebellious people were arrogant and cunning and should be punished. They also said that the fate of the people was like this and they would soon be eliminated. Wang Mang was happy and always promoted them.
In August of this year, Wang Mang personally went to the southern suburbs to create a powerful force.
Weidou was made of copper mixed with five-color stones. It was shaped like a Big Dipper and was two feet and five inches long. It was intended to be used to intimidate various peasant armies.
The mighty battle was forged, and Siming was asked to carry it. When Wang Mang went out, it was in front of him, and when Wang Mang entered the palace, he put it next to him.
On the day when Wei Dou was cast, the weather was extremely cold, and hundreds of officials and horses froze to death.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, a fire broke out at the south gate of the Northern Army camp.
The Grand Sima Sima Yun Fei Xing was appointed as the shepherd of Jingzhou. Wang Mang met him and asked him about his plans after taking office. Fei Xing replied: Most of the people in Jingzhou and Yangzhou rely on the mountains, forests and lakes, and use fishing and woodcutting as their occupations.
Some time ago, the country implemented the six-management system and levied taxes on mountains, forests, lakes and swamps, which harmed and deprived the people of their interests. Coupled with successive years of drought, the people were hungry and poor, so they became thieves.
After I arrived at my post, I wanted to order the thieves to return home, loan them farm tools, cattle, seeds, and grain, and reduce or exempt them from taxes, hoping to disband and appease them.
Wang Mang became angry and dismissed Fei Xing from his official position.
Officials all over the country sought illegal profits one after another because they could not get their salaries. The property of the county chiefs and governors accumulated thousands of gold.
Wang Mang wrote a letter to Shao saying: After a thorough investigation of the Huns' invasion of the Central Plains in the second year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, all military officers and border officials who have made illegal profits and increased their property and made a fortune will have four-fifths of their family property confiscated to support the urgent needs of border defense.
Government officials traveled all over the country in carriages, carefully examining corruption cases, mobilizing officers to report on their generals, and slaves to report on their masters. They hoped to use this method to suppress evil, but the evil became more and more serious.
The emperor's grandson Gong Chonggong Wang Zong drew a portrait of himself, wearing the emperor's clothes and the emperor's crown, and engraved three seals: the first is "Wei Zhi Guan, Cun Ji Xia, Nanshan, Hidden by Thin Ice", the second is "Su Sheng Bao Ji", and the third is "De Feng Chang Tu".


Chunk 2: 
original: 
又宗舅吕宽家前徙合浦，私与宗通，发觉按验，宗自杀。
莽曰： 宗属为皇孙，爵为上公，知宽等叛逆族类，而与交通；刻铜印三，文意甚害，不知厌足，窥欲非望。
《春秋》之义， 君亲毋将，将而诛焉。
迷惑失道，自取此事，乌呼哀哉！
宗本名会宗，以制作去二名，今复名会宗。
贬厥爵，改厥号，赐谥为功崇缪伯，以诸伯之礼葬于故同谷城郡。
宗姊妨为卫将军王兴夫人，祝诅姑，杀婢以绝口。
事发觉，莽使中常侍惲责问妨，并以责兴，皆自杀。
事连及司命孔仁妻，亦自杀。
仁见莽免冠谢，莽使尚书劾仁： 乘 乾 车，驾 神 马，左苍龙，右白虎，前朱雀，后玄武，右杖威节，左负威斗，号曰赤星，非以骄仁，乃以尊新室之威命也。
仁擅免天文冠，大不敬。
有诏勿劾，更易新冠。
其好怪如此。
以真道侯王涉为卫将军。
涉者，曲阳侯根子也。
根，成帝世为大司马，荐莽自代，莽恩之，以为曲阳非令称，乃追谥根曰直道让公，涉嗣其爵。
是岁，赤眉力子都、樊崇等以饥馑相聚，起于琅邪，转抄掠，众皆万数。
遗使者发郡国兵击之，不能克。
六年春，莽见盗贼多，乃令太史推三万六千岁历纪，六岁一改元，布天下。
下书曰： 《紫阁图》曰 太一、黄帝皆仙上天，张乐昆仑虔山之上。
后世圣主得瑞者，当张乐秦终南山之上。
予之不敏，奉行未明，乃今谕矣。
复以宁始将军为更始将军，以顺符命。
《易》不云乎？ 日新之谓盛德，生生之谓易。
予其飨哉！
translation: 
In addition, Wang Zong's uncle Lu Kuan's family was exiled to Hepu County, and he secretly contacted Wang Zong. After being discovered, Wang Zong committed suicide after investigation and verification.
Wang Mang said: Wang Zong's kinship is that of the emperor's grandson, and his title is that of Grand Duke. He knew that Lu Kuan and others were rebels, so he tried to associate with them. He engraved three steel seals. The meaning of the seals is very sneaky, not satisfied, and coveting undue hope.
The principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that you should not have any evil thoughts towards the king and your parents, and if you have evil thoughts, you should punish them.
I was so confused that I deviated from the right path. I committed such a crime. How sad!
Wang Zong was originally named Wang Huizong. Because the system stipulated that double names should be abolished, the original name is now restored to Wang Huizong.
He devalued his title, changed his name, gave him the title of Gong Chong Miao Bo, and buried him in Gucheng County, his original feudal state, according to the etiquette of an earl.
Wang Zong's sister Wang Zhi was the wife of General Wang Xing. She prayed to ghosts and gods to bring disaster to her mother-in-law and killed her maid in order to silence her.
Finally, when the incident was discovered, Wang Mang asked the official Zhongchang to question Wang Zhi and blame Wang Xing for the incident. Both Wang Zhi and Wang Xing committed suicide.
The incident involved Si Ming Kong Ren's wife, who also committed suicide.
When Kong Ren saw Wang Mang, he took off his hat to plead guilty. Wang Mang asked the minister to impeach Kong Ren: He was sitting in a cart with astronomical images and a mare, with the green dragon symbol on the left, the white tiger symbol on the right, the bird symbol in the front, and the turtle symbol in the back. He held the Five Power Festival in his right hand and the Mighty Dou on his left shoulder. The title was called Red Star. These were not used to let Kong Ren do whatever he wanted, but to respect the majestic orders of the new dynasty.
Kong Ren took off the astronomical crown without authorization, which was a crime of disrespecting the emperor.
Wang Mang issued another edict instructing him not to impeach him, but to replace him with a new hat.
He's moody like this.
Appoint Zhidaohou Wangshe as the general of the guard.
Wang She is the son of Quyanghou Wanggen.
Wang Gen served as Chief Sima during the reign of Emperor Cheng and once recommended Wang Mang to succeed him. Wang Mang was grateful to him and thought that Quyang was not a good name, so he followed Wang Gen as Zhidao and let Wang She inherit his title.
This year, the Red Eyebrow Army Li Zidu, Fan Chong and others gathered together due to famine, and started an uprising in Langxie County. They looted everywhere, with a total of ten thousand troops.
Wang Mang sent envoys to mobilize local troops to attack them, but they could not win.
In the spring of the sixth year, Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves, so he asked Taishi to calculate the outline of the calendar for 36,000 years. He changed the year name every six years and announced it to the whole country.
The following report says: "Purple He Tu" says: Taiyi and Huangdi both became gods and ascended to heaven, playing fairy music on Qianshan Mountain in Kunlun Mountains.
The wise emperors whose descendants have gained auspiciousness should play fairy music on Zhongnan Mountain in Qin.
I wasn't smart enough to follow it consciously, and I didn't understand it until now.
Then General Ningshi was called General Gengshi. It means obeying the destiny.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say it? It is said that renewal is excellent moral character. In the process of movement and change, new things are constantly produced, which is called Yi.
I will enjoy this happiness!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
欲以诳耀百姓，销解益贼。
众皆笑之。
初献《新乐》于明堂、太庙。
群臣始冠麟韦之弁。
或闻其乐声，曰： 清厉而哀，非兴国之声也。
是时，关东饥旱数年，力子都等党众浸多，更始将军廉丹击益州不能克，征还。
更遣复位后大司马护军郭兴、庸部牧李晔击蛮夷若豆等，太傅牺叔士孙喜清洁江湖之益贼。
而匈奴寇边甚。
莽乃大募天下丁男及死罪囚、吏民奴，名曰 猪突豨勇 ，以为锐卒。
一切税天下吏民，訾三十取一，缣帛皆输长安。
令公卿以下至郡县黄绶皆保养军马，多少各以秩为差。
又博募有奇技术可以攻匈奴者，将待以不次之位。
言便宜者以万数：或言能度水不用舟楫，连马接骑，济百万师；或言不持斗粮，服食药物，三军不饥；或言能飞，一日千里，可窥匈奴。
莽辄试之，取大鸟翮为两翼，头与身皆著毛，通引环纽，飞数百步堕。
莽知其不可用，苟欲获其名，皆拜为理军，赐以车马，待发。
初，匈奴右骨都侯须卜当，其妻王昭君女也，尝内附。
莽遣昭君兄子和亲侯王歙诱呼当至塞下，胁将诣长安，强立以为须卜善于后安公。
始欲诱迎当，大司马严尤谏曰： 当在匈奴右部，兵不侵边，单于动静，辄语中国，此方面之大助也。
于今迎当置长安槁街，一胡人耳，不如在匈奴有益。
莽不听。
即得当，欲遣尤与廉丹击匈奴，皆赐姓徵氏，号二徵将军，当诛单于舆而立当代之。
出车城西横厩，未发。
尤素有智略，非莽攻伐四夷，数谏不从，著古名将乐毅、白起不用之意及言边事凡三篇，奏以风谏莽。
及当出廷议，尤固言匈奴可且以为后，先忧山东盗贼。
莽大怒，乃策尤曰： 视事四年，蛮夷猾夏不能遏绝，寇贼奸宄不能殄灭，不畏天威，不用诏命，貌很自臧，持必不移，怀执异心，非沮军议。
未忍致于理，其上大司马武建伯印韨，归故郡。
以降符伯董忠为大司马。
翼平连率田况奏郡县訾民不实，莽复三十税一。
以况忠言忧国，进爵为伯，赐钱二百万。
translation: 
I want to use this method to dazzle the people and eliminate thieves.
Everyone laughed at these practices.
For the first time, he presented "Xin Yue" to Mingtang and Ancestral Temple.
Ministers began to wear buckskin hats.
Someone heard the melody of the music and said: It is sad, serious and low, not the music to revitalize the country.
At this time, the Kanto region suffered from drought and famine for several consecutive years, and the number of tribes such as Lizidu gradually increased. Gengshi general Lian Dan failed to win in Yizhou and was recalled.
After the restoration, he sent Guo Xing, the Great Sima Protector, and Li Bi, the Yongbu Mu Li Bi, to attack the tribal leader Ruodou and others, and sent Taifu Xishu Shi Sun Xi to pacify the thieves in various places.
At the same time, the Xiongnu invaded the border very severely.
Wang Mang then recruited a large number of strong men from all over the country, as well as condemned criminals and domestic slaves of officials and civilians. He named them Zhutu Xiyong and used them as elite soldiers.
All fees were collected from officials and civilians across the country, one-thirtieth of the estimated property was taken, and all silk and silk were transported to Chang'an.
Officials from the ministerial level to the county officials wearing yellow seals were ordered to maintain military horses. The number of horses was determined according to each person's salary.
He also extensively recruited specialized talents who had unique skills that could be used to attack the Xiongnu, and planned to hire them by upgrading their positions.
There are tens of thousands of people who suggest things that are beneficial to the country: some say that you can cross rivers without boats and connect people and horses, and you can cross an army of millions; some say that you don’t need to carry a bucket of grain, but just take medicine, and the army will not be hungry; some say that you can fly, flying a thousand miles a day, to spy on the Huns.
Wang Mang asked him to try it. The man made two wings from the feathers of a big bird, attached feathers to his head and body, and wrapped them with ring ties all over his body. After flying a few hundred steps, they fell off.
Wang Mang knew that they could not be used, so he insisted on gaining the reputation of cherishing talents, so he appointed them all as commanders, rewarded them with chariots and horses, and waited for their departure.
At the beginning, the right bone of the Xiongnu was Hou Xudang, and his wife was the daughter of Wang Zhaojun, who had returned to the Central Plains.
Wang Mang sent Wang Zhaojun's nephew and prince Wang She to lure Xu Budang to the border, coerced him to come to Chang'an, and forced him to be the Duke of Xu Bushan Hou'an.
At first Wang Mang wanted to seduce Xubutang, but Grand Sima Yanyou advised: Xubutang is on the right side of the Xiongnu. His army has never invaded the border and always tells the Central Plains news about Chanyu. This is a huge help.
Now we welcome Subudang to Chang'an East Street. He is just a Huns. It is better to let him stay with the Huns.
Wang Mang didn't listen.
Xu Bu Dang has been brought here, and he wants to send Yan You and Lian Dan to attack the Xiongnu. They are both given the surname Zheng and are called the Second Zheng General. They want to kill Shan Yu Yu and set up Xu Dang to replace him.
They sent troops to West Malan of Chang'an City but did not set off.
Yan You, who had always been resourceful and talented, opposed Wang Mang's attack on foreigners in the West. Wang Mang did not listen to his repeated advice, so he wrote three articles about the historical lessons of the distrust of ancient famous generals Le Yi and Bai Qi, and about border defense matters, and submitted them to Wang Mang in a tactful and tortuous way.
When the court meeting was held, Yan You firmly stated that the Xiongnu could put their power aside and worry about the thieves in Shandong first.
Wang Mang was furious and wrote a policy letter to Yan You, saying: You have been in office for four years. The foreign tribes that disturbed the Central Plains cannot be suppressed. The thieves and evil spirits cannot be eradicated. You are not afraid of the majesty of heaven and do not obey the emperor's orders. You are vicious in appearance and think you are kind in vain. You are stubborn and unchangeable. You have second thoughts and destroy military plans.
I can't bear to hand it over to the judicial department. I should hand over the seal of Grand Sima Wu Jianbo and return to my hometown.
Dong Zhong, the descendant of Fu Bo, was appointed as the Grand Sima.
The Yiping County Company led the field report to the county. The county's estimate of the people's property was untrue, and Wang Mang levied it at one-thirtieth.
Thinking that Tian Kuang was loyal and caring about the country, he promoted his title to earl and rewarded him with two million yuan.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
众庶皆詈之。
青、徐民多弃乡里流亡，老弱死道路，壮者入贼中。
夙夜连率韩博上言： 有奇士，长丈，大十围，来至臣府，曰欲奋击胡虏。
自谓巨毋霸，出于蓬莱东南，五城西北昭如海濒，轺车不能载，三马不能胜。
即日以大车四马，建虎旗，载霸诣阙。
霸卧则枕鼓，以铁箸食，此皇天所以辅新室也。
愿陛下作大甲高车，贲、育之衣，遣大将一人与虎贲百人迎之于道。
京师门户不容者，开高大之，以视百蛮，镇安天下。
博意欲以风莽。
莽闻恶之，留霸在所新丰，更其姓曰巨母氏，谓因文母太后而霸王符也。
征博下狱，以非所宜言，弃市。
明年改元曰：地皇 ，从三万六千岁历号也。
地皇元年正月乙未，赦天下。
下书曰： 方出军行师，敢有趋讠襄犯法者，辄论斩，毋须时，尽岁止。
于是春夏斩人都市，百姓震惧，道路以目。
二月壬申，日正黑。
莽恶之，下书曰： 乃者日中见昧，阴薄阳，黑气为变，百姓莫不惊怪。
兆域大将军王匡遣吏考问上变事者，欲蔽上之明，是以適见于天，以正于理，塞大异焉。
莽见四方盗贼多，复欲厌之，又下书曰： 予之皇初祖考黄帝定天下，将兵为上将军，建华盖，立斗献，内设大将，外置大司马五人，大将军二十五人，偏将军百二十五人，裨将军千二百五十人，校尉万二千五百人，司马三万七千五百人，候十一万二千五百人，当百二十二万五千人，士吏四十五万人，士千三百五十万人，应协于《易》 孤矢之利，以威天下 。
予受符命之文，稽前人，将条备焉。
translation: 
The general public cursed him.
Many people in Qingzhou and Xuzhou abandoned their homes and fled. The old and weak died on the road, while the strong joined the ranks of thieves.
Suye Junlian led Han Bo to report: A strange man, ten feet tall and ten feet tall, came to my palace and said he wanted to fight against the Xiongnu.
He said his name was Juwuba, and he grew up in Zhaoru, southeast of Penglai and northwest of Wucheng. He could not fit in a light vehicle and could not be dragged by three horses.
Immediately, he hitched four horses to a large cart, set up a tiger flag, and loaded up the giant horse to come to the capital.
Juwuba sleeps with his head resting on a pillow and eats with iron chopsticks. This is God asking him to assist the new dynasty.
I hope you will build a large armored chariot, a suit of clothes worn by Meng Ben and Xia Yu, and send a general and a hundred warriors to meet him on the road.
If the gates of the capital cannot accommodate him, open them higher and wider, and show him to the foreign tribes, so that he can intimidate and stabilize the world.
Han Bo wanted to use it to ridicule Wang Mang.
Wang Mang heard this and resented Han Bo. He asked Ju Guuba to stay in Xinfeng County where he was located, and changed his surname to Ju Mu, which meant that thanks to the birth of this person, Queen Mother Wen, this was the destiny that made him the overlord.
Put Han Bo in jail, thinking that those words were not what he should say, and put him to death.
In the second year, the year name was changed to Emperor of the Earth, which was based on the outline of the 36,000-year calendar.
On the last day of the first lunar month of the first year of the Earth Emperor's reign, a nationwide amnesty was announced.
The following report said: When the troops are marching, anyone who dares to run around and make noise and violate the law will be beheaded. Do not wait until the execution season. This order will be implemented until the end of the year.
So in the spring and summer, people were killed in the city, and the people were terrified. When they met on the road, they only looked at each other and did not dare to talk.
On Renshen Day in February, the sky was dark when the sun was at its peak.
Wang Mang hated this phenomenon and reported below: Some time ago, there was darkness, the Yin energy invaded the Yang energy, and the black energy caused disasters. The people were all surprised.
Wang Kuang, the general of Zhaoyu, sent his subordinates to pursue the person who reported the abnormal accident in order to cover up the emperor's ears and eyes. Therefore, he was condemned from heaven and should be punished by law to remedy such a catastrophe.
Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves from all directions, and wanted to deter them again, so he sent a message: My great emperor Huangdi brought peace to the world. He led his army as a general, erected gorgeous chariot covers, and set up Beidou-shaped ritual vessels. He set up generals in the base camp, and set up five generals outside the camp, twenty-five generals, and one hundred and twenty-five partial generals. , there are 1,250 generals, 12,500 lieutenants, 37,500 commanders, 112,500 military commanders, 225,000 chiefs, 450,000 palace officials, and 13.5 million soldiers, which is consistent with what the "Book of Changes" says Bows and arrows are sharp, used to intimidate the world.
I accepted the words of the talisman, followed the ancients, and planned to gradually set it up.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
于是置前后左右中大司马之位，赐诸州牧号为大将军，郡卒正、连帅、大尹为偏将军，属令长裨将军，县宰为校尉。
乘传使者经历郡国，日且十辈，仓无见谷以给，传车马不能足，赋取道中车马，取办于民。
七月，大风毁王路堂。
复下书曰： 乃壬午餔时，有列风雷雨发屋折木之变，予甚弁焉，予甚栗焉，予甚恐焉。
伏念一旬，迷乃解矣。
昔符命文立安为新迁王，临国雒阳，为统义阳王。
是时予在摄假，谦不敢当，而以为公。
其后金匮文至，议老皆曰： 临国雒阳为统，谓据土中为新室统也，宜为皇太子。 自此后，临久病，虽瘳不平，朝见挈茵舆行。
见王路堂者，张于西厢及后阁更衣中，又以皇后被疾，临且去本就舍，妃妾在东永巷。
壬午，烈风毁王路西厢及后阁更衣中室。
昭宁堂池东南榆树大十围，东僵，击东阁，阁即东永巷之西垣也。
皆破折瓦坏，发屋拔木，予甚惊焉。
又侯官奏月犯心前星，厥有占，予甚忧之。
优念《紫阁图》文，太一、黄帝皆得瑞以仙，后世褒主当登终南山。
所谓新迁王者，乃太一新迁之后也。
统义阳王乃用五统以礼义登阳上千之后也。
临有兄而称太子，名不正。
宣尼公曰： 名不正，则言不顺，至于刑罚不中，民无错手足。 惟即位以来，阴阳未和，风雨不时，数遇枯旱蝗螟为灾，谷稼鲜耗，百姓苦饥，蛮夷猾夏，寇贼奸宄，人民正营，无所错手足。
深惟厥咎，在名不正焉。
其立安为新迁王，临为统义阳正，几以保全二子，子孙千亿，外攘四夷，内安中国焉。
translation: 
Therefore, the positions of the former Grand Sima, the rear Grand Sima, the Left Grand Sima, the Right Grand Sima, and the Zhongda Sima were established, and the pastoral officers of each state were given the rank of general, the commanders, company commanders, and Dayin of each county were given the rank of partial generals, the subordinate commanders and commanders were given the rank of general Pi, and the county chiefs were given the rank of school lieutenant.
Envoys riding in chariots passed through various counties, nearly ten batches a day. There was no existing food supply in the warehouse, and the horses driving the chariots could not satisfy them, so they requisitioned the chariots and horses on the road and provided them to the people.
In July, strong winds damaged Wang Lu Tang.
He continued: "At the time of Ren Wu, there was a violent storm that destroyed houses and destroyed trees. I was very surprised and suspicious about this, I was very trembling about this, and I was very afraid of this."
After lying down and thinking about it for ten days, the confusion was finally resolved.
In the past, the Fu Ming text said that Wang An should be established as the newly moved king, and Wang Lin should be established in Luoyang as the king of Tongyiyang.
At that time, I was acting as the emperor, but I did not dare to accept the offer, so I asked them to accept the duke.
After that, the Golden Chamber Wenci came, and public opinion said: Wang Lin founded the country in Luoyang and became the king of Yiyang, which meant that he occupied the center of the country and was the successor of the new dynasty, and should be the crown prince. From then on, Wang Lin was ill for a long time. Although he recovered later, he did not fully recover. When he went to court, he had to sit on a blanket, and someone else would hold the blanket and push it in the carriage.
When Wang Lutang came to court, he had to put up curtains in the west wing and the back dressing room to rest. Because the queen was ill, Wang Lin temporarily left his original residence and came to live here. His concubines lived in Dongyong Lane.
On Renwu day, a storm damaged the west wing of Wang Road and the dressing room in the back pavilion.
There is an elm tree ten meters thick in the southeast of Zhaoning Tangchi. It falls to the east and hits the wall. The east pavilion is the west wall of Shuyong Lane.
I was horrified that these places were broken and broken, roof tiles were destroyed, houses were excavated, and trees were uprooted.
The astronomer also reported that the moon invaded the front star of Antares, which was a sign, and I was very worried about it.
By lying down and considering the words of "Purple Pavilion Picture", both Taiyi and Huangdi gained auspiciousness and became immortals, and the great monarchs of future generations will ascend Mount Zhongnan.
The so-called Xinqian King is the successor of Taiyi Xinqian.
King Tongyiyang was the successor who promoted the five ethics and ascended to the throne by virtue of etiquette and righteousness, thus ascending to the fairyland.
Wang Lin had an elder brother and was called the prince, which was not a correct title.
Duke Xuanni said: "My title is unfair, my words are inappropriate and unreasonable, and the execution of punishments is incorrect and inappropriate, so the people don't know what to do. Since I came to the throne, the yin and yang have not been harmonious, and the wind and rain have not been at the right time. Severe droughts and locusts and borers have caused many disasters. Food is scarce. The people are suffering from famine. Foreigners have disturbed the Central Plains, and thieves and evildoers have caused trouble. The people are terrified and do not know what to do."
Think deeply about these crimes, which lie in wrongful status.
Wang An should be made the new king, and Wang Lin should be the king of Yiyang. I hope to use this measure to protect my two sons and have prosperous descendants, exclude foreign tribes from all directions externally, and stabilize the Central Plains internally.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
是月，杜陵便殿乘舆虎文衣废臧在室匣中者出，自树立外堂上，良久乃委地。
吏卒见者以闻，莽恶之，下书曰： 宝黄厮亦，其令郎从官皆衣绛。
望气为数者多言有士功象，莽又见四方盗贼多，欲视为自安能建万世之基者，乃下书曰： 予受命遭阳九之厄，百六之会，府帑空虚，百姓匮乏，宗庙未修，且袷祭于明堂太庙，夙夜永念，非敢宁息。
深惟吉昌莫良于今年，予乃卜波水之北，郎池之南，惟玉食。
予又卜金水之南，明堂之西，亦惟玉食。
予将新筑焉。
于是遂营长安城南，提封百顷。
九月甲申，莽立载行视，亲举筑三下。
司徒王寻、大司空王邑持节，及侍中常侍执法杜林等数十人将作。
崔发、张邯说莽曰： 德盛者文缛，宜崇其制度，宣视海内，且令万世之后无以复加也。
莽乃博征天下工匠诸图画，以望法度算，乃吏民以义入钱、谷助作者，骆驿道路。
坏彻城西苑中建章、承光、包阳、犬台、储元宫及平乐、当路、阳禄馆，凡十余所，取其材瓦，以起九庙。
是月，大雨六十余日。
令民入米六百斛为郎，其郎吏增秩赐爵至附城。
九庙：一曰黄帝太初祖庙，二曰帝虞始祖昭庙，三曰陈胡王统祖穆庙，四曰齐敬王世祖昭庙，五曰济北愍王王祖穆庙，凡五庙不堕云；六曰济南伯王尊祢昭庙，七曰元城孺王尊称穆庙，八曰阳平顷王戚祢昭庙，九曰新都显王戚祢穆庙。
殿皆重屋。
太初祖庙东西南北各四十丈，高十七丈，余庙半之。
为铜薄栌，饰以金银雕文，穷极百工之巧。
带高增下，功费数百巨万，卒徒死者万数。
translation: 
This month, the tiger-patterned clothes that were used by the emperor and were stored in boxes in the inner chamber of Duling's dormitory temple, which had been abandoned and unused, came out and stood up on their own in the outer hall. It took a long time for them to shrivel and fall to the ground.
The officials and soldiers who saw it reported the incident. Wang Mang hated it, so he reported: "Yellow is cherished and fiery red is despised, so the ministers and attendants should all wear bright red clothes."
Many people who specialize in observing the clouds said that there were signs of large-scale construction. Wang Mang also saw that there were many thieves in various places. He wanted to show that he was a man with an open mind and could build a foundation for generations to come, so he wrote: Since I inherited the destiny, I have encountered unfortunate fate and cycles of disasters. The treasury is empty, the people are poor, the ancestral temple has not been built, and sacrifices are held in the Mingtang Ancestral Temple. I think about it day and night and dare not forget it.
I deeply thought that the auspiciousness and prosperity could not be better than this year, so I chose the north of Boshui and the south of Langchi as a good location.
I chose the south of Jinshui and the west of Mingtang, which are also good addresses.
I plan to lay the foundation stone here myself.
So construction was carried out in the south of Chang'an City, with a total base area of ​​100 hectares.
On Jiashen day in September, Wang Mang stood on the car to inspect, and personally raised the stick and made three blows.
The great Situ Wang Xun and the great Sikong Wangyi held the talisman, and dozens of people including the minister, the regular minister, and the law enforcement Du Lin supervised and directed the construction.
Cui Fa and Zhang Han persuaded Wang Mang: People with noble virtues must have rich etiquette. The structure and scale of this project should be made grand and magnificent, so that people all over the country know it, and it should not be surpassed by thousands of generations.
Wang Mang widely solicited many design drawings from craftsmen across the country, used the Pythagorean theorem to measure and calculate, and officials and civilians donated money and food to help with construction out of Chen's kindness. There was an endless stream of people on the road.
More than ten buildings in total, including Jianzhang Palace, Chengguang Palace, Baoyang Palace, Datai Palace, Chuyuan Palace, Heping Le Pavilion, Dang Road Pavilion and Yang Lu Pavilion, were demolished in Shanglin Garden in the west of Chang'an City, and their wood and bricks were used to build nine ancestral temples.
Since this month, it has rained heavily for more than sixty days.
The common people were asked to pay 600 dendrobium of rice grain to become a Langguan. Those who turned out to be Langguan could increase their salary and reward titles until they attached to the city.
The nine ancestral temples are: the first is the Taichu Ancestral Temple of the Yellow Emperor, the second is the Zhaomiao Temple of the founder of the Yu Emperor, the third is the Tongzumu Temple of King Chen Hu, the fourth is the Zhaomiao Temple of King Qijing Shizu, and the fifth is the Zumu Temple of King Minwang of Jibei. A total of five ancestral temples are never allowed to be abolished; the sixth is Jinan Bo Wang Zunmi Zhao Temple, the seventh is Yuancheng Ru Wang Zunmi Mu Temple, the eighth is Yangping Qingwang Qi Zhimu Temple, and the ninth is Xindu Xian Wang Qi Mi Mu Temple.
The palaces are all stacked houses.
The Taichu ancestral temple is 40 feet long in the east, west, north and south, and 17 feet high. The remaining temples are equal to half of it.
It is wrapped in copper leather and decorated with patterns inlaid with gold and silver, using all kinds of arts and crafts techniques.
Using the high ground as the foundation and building up the lower areas next to it, the cost of the project was incalculable, and tens of thousands of slaves and civilians died from exhaustion.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
巨鹿男子马適求等谋举燕、赵兵以诛莽，大司空士王丹发觉以闻。
莽遣三公大夫逮治党与，连及郡国豪杰数千人，皆诛死。
封丹为辅国侯。
自莽为不顺时令，百姓怨恨，莽犹安之，又下书曰： 惟设此一切之法以来，常安六乡巨邑之都，枹鼓稀鸣，盗贼衰少，百姓安土，岁以有年，此乃立权之力也。
今胡虏未灭诛，蛮僰未绝焚，江湖海泽麻沸，盗贼未尽破殄，又兴奉宗庙社稷之大作，民众动摇。
今夏一切行此令，尽二年止之，以全元元，救愚奸。
是岁，罢大小钱，更行货布，长二寸五分，广一寸，真货钱二十五。
货钱径一寸，重五铢，枚直一。
两品并行。
敢盗铸钱及偏行布货，伍人知不发举，皆没入为官奴婢。
太傅平晏死，以予虞唐尊为太傅。
尊曰： 国虚民贫，咎在奢泰。
乃身短衣小袖，乘牝马柴车，藉槁，瓦器，又以历遗公卿。
出见男女不异路者，尊自下车，以象刑赭幡污染其衣。
莽闻而说之，下诏申敕公卿思与厥齐。
封尊为平化侯。
是时，南郡张霸、江夏羊牧、王匡等起云杜绿林，号曰：下江兵 ，众皆万余人。
武功中水乡民三舍垫为池。
二年正月，以州牧位三公，刺举怠解，更置牧监副，秩元士，冠法冠，行事如汉刺史。
是月，莽候妻死，谥曰： 孝睦皇后 ，莽渭陵长寿园西，令永侍文母，名陵曰 亿年 。
初莽妻以莽数杀其子，涕泣失明，莽令太子临居中养焉。
莽妻旁侍者原碧，莽幸之。
translation: 
Ma Shiqiu, a man from Julu County, and others planned to mobilize the troops of Yandi and Fangdi to attack Wang Mang. Wang Dan, the clerk of Dasikong, found out and reported it.
Wang Mang sent the Sangong officials to arrest and pursue their party members. Thousands of authority figures in various counties and counties were implicated, and they were all executed.
Granted Wang Dan the title of auxiliary prince.
Since Wang Mang's measures were out of season and the people were resentful, Wang Mang was still content with this situation. He continued to report: Since the formulation of such expedient laws, Chang'an has become the central city of the six major counties. The sound of alarm drums has become less frequent, the number of thieves has weakened, and the people have settled in the countryside. As a result, there has been a bumper harvest. This is the effect of adopting expedient measures.
Now the Xiongnu have not been destroyed, the southwestern barbarians have not been exterminated, the four directions are like a mess, the thieves have not been completely eliminated, and large-scale construction projects to respect the ancestors and gods are being carried out, and the people are wavering.
It is still necessary to implement this law now and terminate it by the end of the second year to protect the good people and save the stupid and evil people.
This year, large and small coins were abolished and replaced by cloth. The cloth was two inches long and five cents wide, and was worth twenty-five coins.
The money is one inch in diameter and weighs five baht. Each piece is a unit.
Both currencies circulate simultaneously.
Anyone who dares to mint money privately or use only cloth, or whose neighbors know about it but do not report it, will be confiscated as slaves of the government.
Taifu Pingyan died, and Yu Tangzun was appointed as Taifu.
Tang Zun said: The national treasury is empty, the people are poor, and the root of the disaster is excessive luxury.
So he wore short sleeves and short clothes, rode in a simple carriage driven by a mare, used hay as a cushion when sleeping and sat, used earthenware as utensils, and used earthenware to hold food and present it to the officials.
When he went out and saw men and women walking inseparably, Tang Zun got out of the car and used a symbolic punishment, dirtying their clothes with a red rag.
Wang Mang heard this, appreciated his approach, and issued an edict clearly warning the ministers to consider following his example.
Tang Zun was granted the title of Pinghua Marquis.
At this time, Zhang Ba from Nanjun, Yangmu and Wang Kuang from Jiangxiajun and others started an uprising in Green Forest Mountain in Yundu County. They called themselves Xiajiang Soldiers, with more than 10,000 troops.
Three houses of residents in Zhongshui Township, Wugong County, collapsed and turned into a swamp.
In the first month of the second year, the state shepherd was raised to the status of the Three Dukes, and lax officials were investigated and exposed. In addition, the deputy positions of state shepherd and ministry supervisor were set up. Their salaries were Yuanshi level, and they wore ceremonial crowns and performed tasks like the governors of the Han Dynasty.
This month, Wang Mang's wife died, and she was given the title of Queen Xiaomu. She was buried in the west of Changshou Garden in Weiling. She was asked to serve Wen Mu forever, and her cemetery was named Yi Nian.
At first, Wang Mang's wife cried blindly because Wang Mang killed her son several times. Wang Mang asked the prince Wang Lin to live in the palace to take care of her.
Wang Mang raped Yuan Bi, a waiter next to Wang Mang's wife.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
后临亦通焉，恐事泄，谋共杀莽。
临妻愔，国师公女，能为星，语临宫中且有白衣会。
临喜，以为所谋且成。
后贬为统义阳正，出在外第，愈忧恐。
会莽妻病困，临予书曰： 上于子孙至严，前长孙、中孙年俱三十而死。
今臣临复适三十，诚恐一旦不保中室，则不知死命所在！
莽妻疾，见其书，大怒，疑临有恶意，不令得会丧。
既莽，收原碧等考问，具服奸、谋杀状。
莽欲秘之，使杀案事使者司命从事，埋狱中，家不知所在。
赐临药，临不肯饮，自刺死。
使侍中票骑将军同说侯林赐魂衣玺韨，策书曰： 符命文立临为统义阳王，此言新室即位三万六千岁后，为临之后者乃当龙阳而起。
前过听议者，以临为太子，有烈风之变，辄顺符命，立为统义阳正。
在此之前，自此之后，不作信顺，弗蒙厥佑，夭年陨命，呜呼哀哉！
迹行赐谥，谥曰： 缪王 。
又诏国师公： 临本不知星，事从愔起。
愔忆自杀。
是月，新迁王安病死。
初，葬为侯就国实，幸侍者增秩、怀能、开明。
怀能生男兴，增秩生男匡、女晔，开明生女捷，皆留新都国，以其不明故也。
及安疾甚，莽自病无子，为安作奏，使上言： 兴等母虽微贱，属犹皇子，不可以弃。
章视群公，皆曰： 安友于兄弟，宜及春夏加封爵。
于是以王车遣使者迎兴等，封兴为功脩任，匡为功建公，晔为睦脩任，捷为睦逮任。
孙公明公寿病死，旬月四丧焉。
莽坏汉孝武、孝昭庙，分葬子孙其中。
魏成大尹李焉与卜者王况谋，况谓焉曰： 新室即位以来，民田奴婢不得卖买，数改钱货，征发烦数，军旅骚动，四夷并侵，百姓怨恨，盗贼并起，汉家当复兴。
君姓李，李者徵，徵，火也，当为汉辅。
因为焉作谶书言： 文帝发忿，居地下趣军，北告匈奴，南告越人。
江中刘信，执敌报怨，复续古先，四年当发军。
江湖有盗，自称樊王，姓为刘氏，万人成行，不受赦令，欲动秦、雒阳。
十一年当相攻，太白杨光，岁星入东井，其号当行。
又言莽大臣吉凶，各有日期。
translation: 
Later, Wang Lin also committed adultery with her. Fearing that the matter would be leaked, the two planned to kill Wang Mang together.
Wang Lin's wife Liu Qing, the daughter of the Grand Master of the State, could observe the stars and told Wang Lin that there would be a white-clothed society in the palace.
Wang Lin was happy, thinking that what he planned would succeed.
Later, he was demoted to King Tongyiyang and sent to live in an outside house, which made him even more worried and fearful.
When Wang Mang's wife became seriously ill, Wang Lin sent her a letter saying: The emperor is very strict with his descendants. In the past, both the eldest grandson and the second grandson died at the age of thirty.
Now I, Wang Lin, am just thirty years old. I am afraid that if something happens to the queen, I don’t know where she will die!
Wang Mang came to check on his wife's condition. When he saw the letter, he became very angry. He suspected that Wang Lin had malicious intentions and refused to allow him to attend the funeral.
After being buried, Yuan Bi and others were arrested for interrogation, and they fully admitted the adultery, murder, etc.
Wang Mang wanted to cover up the incident, so he sent people to kill the investigators, Si Mingcheng, and buried them in prison. His family didn't know where they were.
Wang Lin was given poison, but Wang Lin refused to drink it and committed suicide.
The hussar general Tongshuo Wanglin in the ordering service gave the ghost clothes and seal, and wrote in the policy letter: The talisman said that Wang Lin should be established as the king of Tongyiyang. This means that thirty-six thousand years after the founding of the new dynasty, the talents who are the descendants of Wang Lin will rise like a hidden dragon.
In the past, I mistakenly followed the opinion of public opinion and made Wang Lin the crown prince. Later, when the storm happened, I obeyed Fu's orders and made him the king of Tongyiyang.
Before and from now on, he did not show obedience, so that he could not enjoy his blessings and died young and short-lived. How sad!
After examining his deeds, he was given the title of Mi, and he was given the title of Mi Wang.
He also ordered the Grand Master to say: "Wang Lin didn't understand astrology at first, but it all started with Liu Qing."
Liu Chi also committed suicide.
This month, Wang An, the newly moved king, died of illness.
At the beginning, when Wang Mang went to feudal states for the princes, he favored his servants to increase their rank, energy and enlightenment.
Huaineng gave birth to his son Wang Xing, Zengzhi gave birth to his son Wang Kuang and his daughter Wang Yun, and Kaiming gave birth to his daughter Wang Jie. They all stayed in the Xindu Kingdom because their identities were unknown.
When Wang An became seriously ill, Wang Mang was worried that he would not have a son, so he wrote a memorial for Wang An and asked him to report: Although the mother of Wang Xing and others was born in a humble background, her kinship is still that of a prince and cannot be abandoned.
Wang Mang handed the memorial to the ministers for circulation, and they all said: "Wang An loves his brother so much that he should be granted a title during spring and summer."
So envoys were sent to meet Wang Xing and others in the king's chariot, and Wang Xing was granted the title of Gong Xiu Gong, Wang Kuang was the Gong Jian Gong, Wang Yun was the Mu Xiu Ren, and Wang Jie was the Mu Chou Ren.
Wang Mang's grandson, Duke Minggong, Wang Shou, died of illness. Four people died in one month.
Wang Mang destroyed the temples of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty and buried their descendants in them.
Li Yan, the great Yin of Wei Cheng County, discussed with the fortune teller Wang Kuang. Wang Kuang said to Li Yan: Since the founding of the new dynasty, land and slaves have not been allowed to be bought and sold, the currency has been changed several times, people and materials have been frequently requisitioned, the army has harassed them, foreign tribes from all over have invaded, the people are resentful, and thieves have revolted. The Han Dynasty will be revived.
Your surname is Li. The pronunciations of Li and Zheng are similar. The sound of Zheng belongs to fire, so you should be an auxiliary in the Han Dynasty.
So he wrote a prophecy for Li Yan, saying: Emperor Wen was angry and supervised the army in the underworld, notifying the Huns in the north and the Yue people in the south.
Liu Xin in Jiangzhong became an enemy and avenged his grievances. He wanted to restore and inherit the cause of his ancestors and sent troops in the Four Years Congress.
There is a big thief in the rivers and lakes. He calls himself King Fan and his surname is Liu. Tens of thousands of people have gathered in groups. They do not accept the order of pardon and want to shake Chang'an and Luoyang.
In the eleventh year, there will be an attack. The Taibai Star shines brightly and the Sui Star enters Dongjing Su. His orders should be carried out.
It also explains that the good and bad fortunes of Wang Mang's ministers have their own dates.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
会合十余万言。
焉令吏写其书，吏亡告之。
莽遣使者即捕焉，狱治皆死。
三辅盗贼麻起，乃置捕盗都尉官，令执法谒者追击长安中，建鸣鼓攻贼幡，而使者随其后。
遣太师牺仲景尚、更始将军护军王党将兵击青、徐，国师和仲曹放助郭兴击句町。
转天下谷、币诣西河、五原、朔方、渔阳，每一郡以百万数，欲以击匈奴。
秋，陨霜杀菽，关东大饥，蝗。
民犯铸钱，伍人相坐，没入为官奴婢。
其男子槛车，儿女子步，以铁锁琅当其颈，传诣钟官，以十万数。
到者易其夫妇，愁苦死者什六七。
孙喜、景尚、曹放等击贼不能克，军师放纵，百姓重困。
莽以王况谶言刑楚当兴，李氏为辅，欲厌之。乃拜侍中掌牧大夫李棽为大将军、扬州牧，赐名圣，使将兵奋击。
上谷储夏自请愿说瓜田仪，莽以为中郎，使出仪。
仪文降，未出而死。
莽求其尸葬之，为起冢、词室，谥曰 瓜宁殇男 ，几以招来其余，然无肯降者。
闰月丙辰，大赦天下，天下大服、民私服在诏书前亦释除。
郎阳成脩献符命，言继立民母，又曰： 黄帝以百二十女致神仙。
葬于是遣中散大夫、谒者各四十五人分行天下，博采乡里所高有淑女者上名。
莽梦长乐宫铜人五枚起立，莽恶之，念铜人铭有 皇帝初兼天下 之文，即使尚方工镌灭所梦铜人膺文。
又感汉高庙神灵，遣虎贲武士入高庙，拔剑四面提击，斧坏户牖，桃汤赭鞭鞭洒屋壁，令轻车校尉居其中，又令中军北垒居高寝。
或言黄帝时建华盖以登仙，莽乃造华盖九重，高八丈一尸，金瑵羽葆，载以秘机四轮车，驾六马，力士三百人黄衣帻，车上人击鼓，挽者皆呼 登仙 。
莽出，令在前。
成官窃言： 此似软车，非仙物也。
是岁，南郡秦丰众且万人。
平原女子迟昭平能说博经以八投，亦聚数千人在河阻中。
莽召问群臣禽贼方略，皆曰： 此天囚行尸，命在漏刻。
故左将军公孙禄征来与议，禄曰： 太史令宗宣典星历，候气变。以凶为吉，乱天文，误朝廷。
太傅平化侯饰虚伪以偷名位， 贼夫人之子 。国师嘉信公颠倒《五经》，毁师法，令学士疑惑。
明学男张邯、地理侯孙阳造井田，使民弃土业。
牺和鲁匡设六管，以穷工商。
说符侯崔发阿谀取容，令下情不上通。
translation: 
It was compiled into more than 100,000 words.
Li Yan asked his subordinates to copy the book, but the subordinates escaped and reported him.
Wang Mang sent envoys to arrest Li Yan on the spot, handed him over to judicial officials for trial, and was executed.
When thieves broke out in Sanfu District, they set up the official post of Captain of the Thief Catcher, and asked law enforcers to pursue the thieves in the suburbs of Chang'an. They set up alarm flags that sounded drums to attack the thieves, and envoys followed them to supervise.
Taishi Zhongjingshang and Gengshi General Hujun Wangdang were sent to lead the army to attack Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Guoshi and Zhongcaofang assisted Guo Xing in attacking Gouding.
The money and grain transported across the country were sent to Xihe County, Wuyuan County, Shuofang County and Yuyang County, each with millions of dollars, and they wanted to use it to attack the Xiongnu.
In autumn, frost fell and froze beans to death. There was a serious famine in the Kanto region and there was a locust plague.
Common people who violated the ban on minting money were forced to sit next to each other and were confiscated as slaves of the government.
Among them, the men rode in prison carts, and the children and women walked. Their necks were tied with iron chains, and they were driven to the government where the money was minted. There were hundreds of thousands of them.
Six or seven out of ten died of sorrow after changing their marital relationship upon arrival.
Scholars Sun Xi, Jing Shang, Cao Fang and others attacked the bandits but failed to win. The army acted recklessly and the people became more miserable.
Because Wang Kuang's prophecy said that the Jing and Chu regions would rise, and the surname Li became his assistant, Wang Mang wanted to defeat them, so he appointed Li Qin, the minister in charge of herding, as a general and Yangzhou shepherd. He named Li Sheng and asked him to lead the army to attack bravely.
Chu Xia, a native of Shanggu County, volunteered to persuade Gua Tianyi to surrender. Wang Mang appointed him as Zhonglang and asked him to persuade Gua Tianyi to surrender.
Guatianyi wrote a document expressing his surrender, but died before he could come out.
Wang Mang came to bury his body, built a tall tomb and temple for him, and gave him the nickname Guan Ning Shang Nan. He hoped to use this method to attract the rest of the people, but no one was willing to surrender.
On Bingchen day of the leap month, a nationwide amnesty was announced, and the national mourning for all people and the private mourning clothes before the Shao Shu was issued were also lifted.
Lang Guanyang Chengxiu offered his fortune and said that another queen should be established. He also said: The Yellow Emperor became a god with the help of one hundred and twenty women.
Wang Mang then dispatched forty-five officials each, including Zhongsan officials and envoys, to patrol the country in separate directions, and widely selected beautiful women who were highly praised by their neighbors and put them on the list.
Wang Mang dreamed that there were five bronze figures standing in the Changle Palace. He hated to do anything. Thinking that the words "The Emperor has just unified the country" were engraved on the bronze figures, he sent Shangfang workers to chisel out the words on the chests of the bronze figures in his dream.
Sensing the spirit of the Han Gaodi Temple, he sent Huben warriors into the Han Gaodi Temple, drew their swords and threw them in all directions, chopped down the doors and windows with axes, sprinkled peach wood soup on the walls, and whipped the walls with earth-red whips.
Some people say that the Yellow Emperor became an immortal because of the gorgeous chariot cover he built, so Wang Mang built a nine-story gorgeous chariot cover, eight feet and one foot high, decorated the frame of the chariot cover with gold and feathers, loaded it in a four-wheeled cart with mechanical internal equipment, harnessed six horses, and was guarded by three hundred strong men wearing yellow turbans and yellow clothes.
When Wang Mang goes out, let him go in front.
The officials said privately: This looks like a coffin, not a thing for gods.
This year, Qin Feng, a native of Nanjun, had nearly 10,000 troops.
Chi Zhaoping, a girl from Pingyuan County, was able to explain the gambling scriptures and win by throwing eight gambling tools. She also gathered thousands of people in dangerous areas of the Yellow River.
Wang Mang summoned the ministers to ask about the plan to capture the thieves, and they all said: These criminals who have violated the laws of heaven, walking corpses, will not live long.
Gongsun Lu, the former general of the left, was summoned to attend the meeting. He said: Taishi Ling Zongxuan was in charge of the astronomical calendar, speculated on the changes in luck, and regarded dangerous signs as auspicious signs, confusing astronomy and causing trouble for the court.
Taifu Pinghuahou used hypocritical words and deeds to cover himself up to steal his reputation and status, which harmed his children. The national teacher Jiaxinggong reversed the Five Classics, destroyed the teacher's teachings, and caused ideological confusion in the academic world.
Zhang Han, a male scholar of Ming Dynasty, and Sun Yang, a Hou of Geography, established the well-field system. The people lost their land and property.
Xi and Lu Kuang established a six-point management system, which made industrial and commercial people desperate.
It is said that Cui Fa, the Marquis of Fu, boasted and flattered his horse to please him, which made it difficult for his subordinates to achieve their goals.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
宜诛此数子以慰天下！
又言： 匈奴不可攻，当与和亲。
臣恐新室忧不在匈奴，而在封域之中也。
莽怒，使虎贲扶禄出。
然颇采其言，左迁鲁匡为五原卒正，以百姓怨非故。
六管非匡所独造，莽厌众意而出之。
初，四方皆以饥寒穷愁起为盗贼，稍稍群聚，常思岁熟得归乡里。
众虽万数，亶称臣人、从事、三老、祭酒，不敢略有城邑，转掠求食，日阕而已。
诸长吏牧守皆自乱斗中兵而死，贼非敢欲杀之也，而莽终不谕其故。
是岁，大司马士按章豫州，为贼所获，贼送付县。
士还，上书具言状。
莽大怒，下狱以为诬罔。
因下书责七公曰： 夫吏者，理也。
宣德明恩，以牧养民，仁之道也。
抑强督奸，捕诛盗贼，义之节也。
今则不然。
盗发不辄得，至成群党，遮略乘传宰士。
士得脱者，又妄自言：我责数贼： 何故为是？ 贼曰： 以贫穷故耳。
贼护出我。今俗人议者率多若此。
惟贫困饥寒，犯法为非，大者群盗，小者偷穴，不过二科，今乃结谋连常以千百数，是逆乱之大者，岂饥寒之谓邪？
七公其严敕卿大夫、卒正、连率、庶尹，谨牧养善民，急捕殄盗贼。
有不同心并力，疾恶黜贼，而妄曰饥寒所为，辄捕系，请其罪。
于是群下愈恐，莫敢言贼情者，亦不得擅发兵，贼由是遂不制。
唯翼平连率田况素果敢，发民年十八以上四万余人，授以库兵，与刻石为约。
赤糜闻之，不敢入界。
translation: 
These few people should be executed to comfort the whole country!
He also said: The Huns should not attack, but should make peace with them.
I'm afraid that the new dynasty's worries are not with the Xiongnu, but within the country.
Wang Mang got angry and asked the Huben warriors to help Gongsun Lu away.
However, he adopted some of his opinions and demoted Lu Kuang to serve as the governor of Wuyuan County because of the resentment and criticism of the people.
The six-management system was not initiated by Lu Kuang alone. Wang Mang abandoned him in order to satisfy everyone's wishes.
At first, people from all over the country took risks and became thieves because of hunger and poverty. Gradually they gathered into groups, often looking forward to returning home after a good harvest.
Although the troops numbered in the tens of thousands, the leaders were only called Giant, Engaged, Three Elders, and Jijiu. They did not dare to capture the city. They robbed everywhere to make ends meet and just ate every day.
The county chiefs, state shepherds, and county prefects were all killed and wounded in random collisions. The thieves did not deliberately want to kill them, but Wang Mang never understood this truth.
This year, a great Sima Shi went to Yuzhou to handle a case and was captured by thieves. The thieves sent him to the county.
This person came back and reported the situation.
Wang Mang was furious and thought this was a false accusation and sent him to prison.
So the following article condemns the four assistants and the three justices: "Li" means to manage and govern the people.
Promoting virtuous politics, showing kindness, and educating and educating the people are the principles of good politics.
Suppressing the strong, supervising the treacherous, arresting and executing thieves, these are the standards of righteous behavior.
That's not what it is now.
When thieves occur, they cannot be arrested or punished until they form a group and rob the court officials who are riding in the carriage.
The official got away and said in vain: "I listed the crimes to accuse the thief. Why did he do this kind of thing?" The thief said it was just because of poverty.
The thief sent me out, which is what some confused people usually talk about nowadays.
Think about it, due to poverty, hunger and cold, people commit crimes and commit crimes. Large groups rob, and small individuals steal. However, these two methods are now planned and organized in hundreds of thousands. This is the culprit of the rebellion. Can hunger and cold be the explanation?
The Seventh Duke should sternly warn the officials, soldiers, lians, and other great officials to seriously discipline and raise the good people, and quickly capture and destroy the thieves.
If there are people who do not work together, hate evil deeds, condemn thieves, and falsely say that they are forced to do so because of hunger and cold, they will be arrested and imprisoned, and their crimes will be investigated.
As a result, the officials were even more frightened. No one dared to tell the true situation of the thieves, and they were not allowed to mobilize the army without authorization. Therefore, the thieves were finally unable to be subdued.
Only Tian Kuang, the leader of Yiping County Company, was always decisive and brave. He mobilized more than 40,000 people over the age of 18, distributed them weapons in stock, and engraved military decrees on stones to announce to them.
The Red Eyebrow Army heard this and did not dare to enter the county boundary.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
况自劾奏，莽让况： 未赐虑符而擅发兵，此弄兵也。厥罪乏兴。
以况自诡必禽灭贼，故且勿治。
后况自请出界击贼，所向皆破。
莽以玺书令况领青、徐二州牧事。
况上言： 盗贼始发，其原甚微，非部吏、伍人所能禽也。
咎在长吏不为意，县欺其郡，郡欺朝廷，实百言十，实千言百。
朝廷忽略，不辄督责，遂至延曼连州，乃遣将率，多发使者，传相监趣。
郡县力事上官，应寒诘对，共酒食，具资用，以救断斩，不给复忧盗贼治官事。
将率又不能躬率吏士，战则为贼所破，吏气浸伤，徒费百姓。
前幸蒙赦令，贼欲解散，或反遮击，恐入山谷转相告语，故郡县降贼，皆更惊骇，恐见诈灭，因饥馑易动，旬日之间更十余万人，此盗贼所以多之故也。
今雒阳以东，米石二千。
窃见诏书，欲遣太师、更始将军，二人爪牙重臣，多从人众，道上空竭，少则亡以威视远方。
宜急选牧、尹以下，明其赏罚。收合离乡、小国无城郭者，徙其老弱置大城中，积藏谷食，并力固守。
贼来攻城，则不能下，所过无食，势不得群聚。
如此，招之必降，击之则灭。
今空复多出将率，郡县苦之，反甚于贼。
宜尽征还乘传诸使者，以休息郡县。
委任臣况以二州盗贼，必平定之。
莽畏恶况，阴为发代，遣使者赐况玺书。
使者至，见况，因令代监其兵。
况随使者西，到，拜为师尉大夫。
况去，齐地遂败。
translation: 
Tian Kuang took the initiative to impeach and accuse him. Wang Mang blamed Tian Kuang: mobilizing troops without issuing tiger charms is an unauthorized war and rebellion. This crime should be treated the same as delaying military aircraft.
Because you promised to catch and destroy the thieves, you will not be punished for the time being.
Later, Tian Kuang volunteered to cross the county boundary to attack the bandits, and all the bandits targeted by his army were defeated.
Wang Mang used an edict stamped with the imperial seal to order Tian Kuang to act as the pastor of Qingzhou and Xuzhou.
The field report said: The thieves have just occurred and their base is very weak, but they are not something that the local security officials and neighborhood reserves can catch.
The responsibility lies in the fact that the main officials at the county level did not care. The county deceived the county, and the county deceived the court. In fact, there were a hundred people, but they only said ten people. In fact, there were a thousand people, but they only said one hundred people.
The imperial court ignored it and did not immediately inspect and punish it. It eventually spread to several states, and then it sent generals and more envoys to supervise the situation.
The counties and counties tried their best to serve their superiors, handle inquiries and inspections, provide food and drinks, and prepare supplies and expenses to save themselves from the death penalty. They had no time to think about thieves and official affairs.
The general cannot personally lead the officers and soldiers to charge into battle. Once they engage in battle, they are defeated by thieves, which gradually weakens their morale and wastes the people's money and food in vain.
Fortunately, they got the order of pardon last time. The thieves wanted to disperse, but someone intercepted them. They retreated into the valley in fear, and spread the news to the thieves who had surrendered in various counties. They were even more frightened, fearing that they would be deceived and destroyed. Because people's hearts are easily shaken during famine, and there were more than 100,000 people in ten days, which was why there were so many thieves.
Now in the Luoyang-Cambodian area, the price of rice is worth two thousand yuan per stone.
I saw the edict, saying that I wanted to send the Grand Master and Gengshi General. They are both authoritative ministers and they must bring more people. However, the people along the way are exhausted and cannot provide supplies. If there are too few followers, they cannot be used to intimidate distant places.
We should quickly select officials from Zhou Mu and Dayin below, clearly define their rewards and punishments, and let them collect scattered rural settlements and small feudal states without castles, move their old and weak residents to big cities, store food, and work together to hold on.
If thieves come to attack the city, they will not be able to capture it. There will be no food in the places they pass through. With this development trend, it is impossible for them to gather in large numbers.
Like this, if you appease them, they will surely surrender, and if you attack them, they will definitely be destroyed.
If more generals are sent out in vain, the local officials and people will fear them more than they fear thieves.
The many envoys riding in the carriages should all be transferred back so that local officials and people can rest and recuperate.
If you entrust me with the task of pacifying the thieves in the two states, I will definitely pacify them.
Wang Mang was afraid and disliked Tian Kuang, so he secretly sent his replacement and sent an envoy to give Tian Kuang the Shao Shu with the imperial seal.
The envoy arrived, met Tian Kuang, and asked his replacement to supervise his troops.
Tian Kuang accompanied the envoy to the west and arrived in Chang'an, where he was appointed Shiwei Dafu.
After Tian Kuang left, the situation in Qidi finally got out of control.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
三年正月，九庙盖构成，纳神主。
莽谒见，大驾乘六马，以五采毛为龙文衣，著角，长三尺。
华盖车，元戎十乘有前。
因赐治庙者司徒、大司空饯客千万，侍中、中常侍以下皆封。
封都匠仇延为邯淡里附城。
二月，霸桥灾，数千人以水沃救，不灭。
莽恶之，下书曰： 夫三皇象春，五帝象夏，三王象秋，五伯象冬。
皇王，德运也；伯者，继空续乏以成历数，故其道驳。惟常安御道多以所近为名。
乃二月癸巳之夜，甲午之辰，火烧霸桥，从东方西行，至甲午夕，桥尽火灭。
大司空行视考问，或云寒民舍居桥下，疑以火自燎，为此灾也。
其明旦即乙未，立春之日也。
予以神明圣祖黄、虞遗统受命，至于地皇四年为十五年。
正以三年终冬绝灭霸驳之桥，欲以兴成新室统一长存之道也。
又戒此桥空东方之道。
今东方岁荒民饥，道路不通，东岳太师亟科条，开东方诸仓，赈贷穷乏，以施仁道。
其更名霸馆为长存馆，霸桥为长存桥。
是月，赤眉杀太师牺仲景尚。
关东人相食。
四月，遣太师王匡、更始将军廉丹东，祖都门外，天大雨，沾衣止。
长老叹曰： 是为泣军！
莽曰： 惟阳九之厄，与害气会，究于去年。
枯旱霜蝗，饥馑荐臻，百姓困乏，流离道路，于春尤甚，予甚悼之。
今使东岳太师特进褒新侯开东方诸仓，赈贷穷乏。
太师公所不过道，分遣大夫谒者并开诸仓，以全元元。
translation: 
In the first month of the third year, the nine temple buildings were completed and the gods were placed.
Wang Mang went to visit him. The motorcade was organized according to the highest standards. His carriage was harnessed to six horses. The horses were covered with harnesses made of dragon-shaped patterns woven with colorful feathers, and had prosthetic horns on their heads, which were three feet long.
The canopy and ten large chariots led the way.
So Da Situ and Da Sikong, who were in charge of the temple construction project, were each rewarded with 10 million yuan, and those below the rank of minister, middle minister, etc. were all rewarded.
Qiu Yan, a great craftsman of the feudal temple, was given as an attached city to Handanli.
In February, a fire broke out at Baqiao. Thousands of people poured water on it but it did not go out.
Wang Mang hated this, so he wrote: The three emperors symbolize spring, the five emperors symbolize summer, the three kings symbolize autumn, and the five hegemons symbolize winter.
From the Three Sovereigns, the Five Emperors to the Three Kings, the transfer of national ruling power was determined by virtue; the emergence of the Five Hegemons was due to the fact that there were no authoritative emperors to rule during this period, so they had to fill the vacancies of the times, and thus gained destiny, so their principles of governing the country were messy. Most of the streets that come to mind in Chang'an are named according to the places nearby.
From the late night of Guisi day in February to the morning of Jiawu day, fire burned over the bridge, burning from Shuduan to the west end. It was not until the evening of Jiawu day that the bridge was burned out and the fire was extinguished.
Da Sikong inspected and interrogated, and some people said that the poor stayed under the bridge, maybe they were warming themselves by the fire, which caused this disaster.
The next day is the last day of Yi, the day of the beginning of spring.
I inherit the destiny as a descendant of the divine ancestors Huangdi and Yudi, and I will be the emperor for four years to fifteen years.
It was completely destroyed just at the end of three years of winter, reflecting the chaotic and domineering Baqiao, which was intended to be used to complete the governing principles of the new dynasty's unification and longevity.
He also used the destruction of this bridge to warn us that we should open up the road to the east.
Now that there is a famine in the East, the people are hungry and the roads are blocked, Grand Master Shuyue quickly formulated laws and regulations, opened granaries all over the East, helped the poor people, and implemented the principle of benevolence.
Ba Pavilion should be renamed Changcun Pavilion, and Pa Bridge should be renamed Changcun Bridge.
This month, the Red Eyebrow Army killed Grand Master Xi Zhongjing Shang.
People in the Kanto region cannibalize people.
In April, Taishi Wang Kuang and Gengshi General Lian Dan were sent to see him off outside the gate of the capital. It rained heavily and stopped until his clothes were wet.
The old man sighed and said: This is crying for the army!
Wang Mang said: Thinking of the unfortunate fate, it merged with the gas of disaster, and it ended last year.
Severe droughts, frost disasters, and locust plagues continue to occur, and famines come one after another. People's lives are difficult and they are wandering everywhere. It is especially severe this spring. I am very sad.
Now the Grand Master Shuyue is sent to Li Xinhou to open granaries all over the East to help the poor people.
In places where the Grand Master's office did not pass, officials and visitors were assigned to open the granaries at the same time to protect the kind people.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
太师公因与廉丹大使五威司命位右大司马更始将军平均侯之兖州，填抚所掌，及青、徐故不轨盗贼未尽解散，后复屯聚者，皆清洁之，期于安兆黎矣。
太师、更始合将锐士十余万人，所过放纵。
东方为之语曰： 宁逢赤眉，不逢太师！
太师尚可，更始杀我！
卒如田况之言。
莽又多遣大夫谒者分教民煮草木为酪，酪不可食，重为烦费。
莽下书曰： 惟民困乏，虽溥开诸仓以赈赡之，犹恐未足。
其且开天下山泽之防，诸能采取山泽之物而顺月令者，其恣听之，勿令出税。
至地皇三十年如故，是王光上戊之六年也。
如令豪吏猾民辜而攉之，小民弗蒙，非予意也。
《易》不云乎？ 损上益下，民说无疆。
《书》云： 言之不从，是谓不艾。
咨乎群公，可不忧哉！
是时，下江兵盛，新市朱鲔、平林陈牧等皆复聚众，攻击乡聚。
莽遣司命大将军孔仁部豫州，纳言大将军严尤、秩宗大将军陈茂击荆州，各从吏士百余人，乘船从渭入河，至华阴乃出乘传，到部募士。
尤谓茂曰： 遣将不与兵符，必先请而后动，是犹绁韩卢而责之获也。
夏，蝗从东方来，蜚蔽天，至长安，入未央宫，缘殿阁。
莽发吏民设购赏捕击。
莽以天下谷贵，欲厌之，为大仓，置卫交戟，名曰 政始掖门 。
流民入关者数十万人，乃置养赡官禀食之。
使者监领，与小吏共盗其禀，饥死者十七八。
先是，莽使中黄门王业领长安市买，贱取于民，民甚患之。
业以省费为功，赐爵附城。
translation: 
Taishi Gong then went to Yanzhou with Ambassador Wuwei Siming, Grand Sima on the right, and Gengshi General Junhou Liandan to appease the officials and people, as well as the original lawless thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou who had not been completely disbanded or had gathered again later, all of them were wiped out in order to stabilize the hundreds of millions of people.
The Grand Master and General Gengshi together commanded more than 100,000 elite soldiers, and the soldiers were allowed to go wherever they passed without restraint.
The people in Shubu area made up a saying for them: I would rather meet the red eyebrow army than the Taishi soldiers!
Robbery by the Taishi soldiers was a trivial matter, but Gengshi soldiers massacred us!
Finally it was as Tian Kuang said.
Wang Mang also sent many doctors and envoys to teach the people how to boil grass and trees into glue. The glue could not be eaten, which would increase the waste of manpower and material resources.
Wang Mang reported below: Considering the people's difficulties, even if granaries are generally opened to relieve them, it may not be enough.
The ban on the mountains, forests, lakes and swamps across the country should be temporarily opened. Those who can use the products of the mountains, forests, lakes and swamps and comply with the seasonal laws should be allowed to do so and not be made to pay taxes.
By the time Emperor Di Huang returned to his original state in the thirtieth year, it would have been the sixth year of Wang Guang's reign.
If powerful officials and cunning wealthy people are allowed to monopolize those benefits and ordinary people do not benefit, then that is not my intention.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say it? The interests of the nobility are reduced and the interests of the common people are increased, and the people are extremely happy.
"Shu Jing" says: Failure to do what is said is called disorder. well!
Ministers, can you not worry?
At this time, the troops in Xiajiang were strong. Zhu Tun from Xinshi and Chen Mu from Pinglin and others gathered their troops to attack small rural towns.
Wang Mang sent General Kong Ren of Si Ming to inspect Yuzhou, General Yan You of Nayan and General Chen Mao of Zhizong to attack Jingzhou. They each took more than 100 officers and soldiers with them. They entered the Yellow River by boat from the Wei River and arrived at Huayin County, where they boarded a transport vehicle and went to the jurisdiction to recruit soldiers.
Yan You said to Chen Mao: "Sending out generals without giving them military talismans and having to ask for instructions first before taking action is like leading a hound and asking it to catch wild beasts."
In summer, locusts flew from the east, covered the sky, flew to Chang'an, flew into Weiyang Palace, and attached themselves to the palaces and pavilions.
Wang Mang set up rewards and mobilized officials and civilians to capture and beat him.
Because the price of grain in the country was high, Wang Mang wanted to defeat it, so he set up guards in the big warehouse. They held halberds and crossed each other to guard the warehouse door. This is called "the government starts from the small door on the side".
Hundreds of thousands of refugees entered Hangu Pass. So they set up support officials and distributed food to them.
The envoys supervised the leaders and stole the grain together with the petty officials. Seven or eight out of ten refugees starved to death.
Before that, Wang Mang asked Wang Ye of Zhonghuangmen to manage Chang'an trade and purchase supplies from the people at low prices. The people hated him very much.
Wang Ye made great contributions by saving acquisition costs and was rewarded with the title of Affiliated City.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
莽闻城中饥馑，以问业，业曰： 皆流民也。
乃市所卖梁飰肉羹，持入视莽，曰： 居民食咸如此。
莽信之。
冬，无盐索卢恢等举兵反城。
廉丹、王匡攻拔之，斩首万余级。
莽遣中郎将奉玺书劳丹、匡，进爵为公，封吏士有功者十余人。
赤眉别校董宪等众数万人在梁郡，王匡欲进击之，廉丹以为新拔城罢劳，当且休士养威。
匡不听，引兵独进，丹随之。
合战成昌，兵败，匡走。
丹使吏持其印韨符节付匡曰： 小儿可走，吾不可！
遂止，战死。
校尉汝云、王隆等二十余人别斗，闻之，皆曰： 廉公已死，吾谁为生？
驰奔贼，皆战死。
莽伤之，下书曰： 惟公多拥选士精兵，众郡骏马仓谷帑藏皆得自调，忽于诏策，离其威节，骑马呵噪，为狂刃所害，乌呼哀哉！
赐谥曰 果公 。
国将哀章谓莽曰： 皇祖考黄帝之时，中黄直为将，破杀蚩尤。
今臣中黄直之位，愿平山东。
莽遣章驰东，与太师匡并力。
又遗大将军阳浚守敖仓，司徒王寻将十余万屯雒阳填南宫，大司马董忠养士习射中军北垒，大司空王邑兼三公之职。
司徒寻初发长安，宿霸昌厩，亡其黄钺。
寻士房扬素狂直，乃哭曰： 此经所谓 丧其齐斧 者也！
自劾去。
莽击杀扬。
四方盗贼往往数万人攻城邑，杀二千石以下。
太师王匡等战数不利。
莽知天下溃畔，事穷计迫，乃议遣风俗大夫司国宪等分行天下，除井田奴婢山泽六管之禁，即位以来诏令不便于民者皆收还之。
待见未发，会世祖与兄齐武王伯升、宛人李通等帅舂陵子弟数千人，招致新市平林朱鲔、陈牧等合攻拔棘阳。
是时，严尤、陈茂破下江兵，成丹、王常等数千人别走，入南阳界。
十只月，有星孛于张、东南行，五日痘见。
莽数召问太史令宗宣，诸术数家皆缪对，言天文安善，群贼且灭。
莽差以自安。
四年正月，汉兵得下江王常等以为助兵，击前队大夫甄阜、属正梁丘赐，皆斩之，杀其众数万人。
初，京师闻青、徐贼众数十万人，讫无文号旌旗表识，咸怪异之。
translation: 
Wang Mang heard that there was a famine in the city and asked Wang Ye about the situation. Wang Ye said: They are all refugees.
So he bought some polished rice and gravy from the market, took it in, showed it to Wang Mang, and said, "The food of the residents all looks like this."
Wang Mang believed him.
In the winter, Soluhui and others from Wuyan County occupied the county seat and raised troops.
Lian Dan and Wang Kuang captured the county seat and beheaded more than 10,000 people.
Wang Mang sent his lieutenant general holding the Shao Shu stamped with the royal seal to comfort Lian Dan and Wang Kuang, promoted them to dukes, and bestowed titles on more than ten officers and soldiers with meritorious services.
Tens of thousands of troops including Lieutenant Dong Xian of the Red Eyebrow Army were active in Liang County. Wang Kuang wanted to attack them. Lian Dan believed that the soldiers who had recently captured the county were tired and should be temporarily allowed to rest and regain their combat effectiveness.
Wang Kuang refused to obey and led the army forward alone. Lian Dan had to follow him.
In the battle at Chengchang, the army was defeated and Wang Kuang fled.
Lian Dan sent an officer to hand his seal and talisman to Wang Kuang, saying: "I can run away, but I can't!"
Then he stopped, fought and died.
More than 20 people including Colonel Ruyun and Wang Long were fighting in another place. When they heard the news, they all said: General Lian is dead, who are we still alive for?
Pegasus rushed towards the bandit army, and they all fought and died.
Wang Mang was hurt and told the following: I think that you have many selected elite soldiers, and you are allowed to use the good horses, warehouse grain, and stock money of each county by yourself. However, you ignored the strategies and tactics mentioned in the edict, left your own authority signs, rode your horses and shouted, and were killed by random knives. How sad!
Mi was given the nickname Guo Gong.
The general Ai Zhang said to Wang Mang: When the emperor was testing the Yellow Emperor, Huang Zhi became a general, defeated and killed Chi You.
Now I occupy the position of Zhonghuangzhi, and I am willing to pacify the Shandong area.
Wang Mang sent Aizhang to the east to join forces with Grand Master Wang Kuang.
He also sent General Yang Jun to defend Aocang. Chief Situ Wangxun led more than 100,000 people to Luoyang and was stationed in Nangong. Grand Sima Dong Zhong trained soldiers in the Chinese army's North Base Camp to practice martial arts. Chief Sikong Wangyi also took charge of the duties of the three princes.
Wang Xun, the great Situ, had just set out from Chang'an and spent the night in Ba Chang's stable, where he lost his golden iron ax.
Wang Xun's official Fang Yang, who was always insolent and forthright, cried and said: "Creation is what the scriptures say about losing the sharp ax!"
He self-impeached and resigned.
Wang Mang beat Fang Yang to death.
Bandits from all over the country would attack the city by tens of thousands of people, killing officials below two thousand stone level.
Grand Master Wang Kuang and others fought many times without victory.
Wang Mang knew that the hearts of the people in the country were divided and betrayed, and that the situation had come to an end, and there was nothing he could do anymore, so he discussed sending Si Guoxian, the customs official, and others to patrol the country separately, and abolished the prohibitions on the well field system, the prohibition of buying and selling slaves, and the collection of taxes on mountains, forests, lakes, and swamps. He also took back all the edicts that had been inconvenient to the people since he ascended the throne.
The envoys were waiting for the audience and had not yet set off. It happened that Shizu, his brother Qiwu King Liu Boxheng, and Wan County native Li Tong led thousands of Chunling descendants to recruit Zhu Tun from Xinshi, Pinglin Chen Mu and other troops to jointly capture Jiyang County.
At this time, Yan You and Chen Mao defeated the Xiajiang soldiers, and thousands of people including Cheng Dan and Wang Chang escaped alone and entered Nanyang County.
In November, there was a meteor shining brightly in Zhangsutian District, traveling southeast, and disappeared after five days.
Wang Mang summoned and asked Taishi Ling Zongxuan several times, but many mathematicians responded hypocritically, saying that the astronomical phenomena were safe and good, and that all groups of thieves were about to perish.
Wang Mang reluctantly comforted himself with these words.
In the first month of the fourth year, the Mo army received support from Xiajiang Wang Chang and other troops. They attacked the front team official Zhen Fu and his subordinate Zhengliang Qiuci, killing them all and annihilating tens of thousands of their troops.
At first, the capital was surprised when they heard that there were hundreds of thousands of thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, but they had no reports, official titles, flags, or badges.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
好事者窃言： 此岂如古三皇无文书号谥邪？
莽亦心怪，以问群臣，群臣莫对。
唯严尤曰：笭此不足怪也。
自黄帝、汤、武行师，必待部曲旌旗号令，今此无有者，直饥寒群盗，犬羊相聚，不知为之耳。
莽大说，群臣尽服。
及后汉兵刘伯升起，皆称将军，攻城略地，既杀甄阜，移书称说。
莽闻之忧惧。
汉兵乘胜遂围宛城。
初，世祖族兄圣公先在平林兵中。
三月辛巳朔，平林、新市、下江兵将王常、朱鲔等共立圣公为帝，改年为更始元年，拜置百官。
莽闻之愈恐。
欲外视自安，乃染其须发，进所征天下淑女杜陵史氏女为皇后，聘黄金三万斤，车马、奴婢、杂帛、珍宝以巨万计。
莽亲迎于前殿两阶间，成同牢之礼于上西堂。
备和嫔、美御、和人三，位视公；嫔人九，视卿；美人二十七，视大夫；御人八十一，视元士：凡百二十人，皆佩印韨，执弓韣。
封皇后父谌为和平侯，拜为宁始将军，谌子二人皆侍中。
是日，大风发屋折木。
群臣上寿曰： 乃庚子雨水洒道，辛丑清靓无尘，其夕谷风迅疾，从东北来。
辛丑。《巽》之宫日也。
《巽》为风为顺，后谊明，母道得，温和慈惠之化也。
《易》曰： 受兹介福，于其王母。
《礼》曰： 承天之庆，万福无疆。
诸欲依废汉火刘，皆沃灌雪除，殄灭无余杂矣。
百谷丰茂，庶草蕃殖，元元欢喜，兆民赖福，天下幸甚！
莽日与方士涿郡昭君等于后宫考验方术，纵淫乐焉。
translation: 
People who like to be nosy say privately: Are these people like the three emperors in ancient times who didn't want documents or titles?
Wang Mang also secretly felt strange and asked the ministers, but no one answered.
Only Yan You said: This is not surprising.
Since the Yellow Emperor, Shang Tang and King Wu of Zhou marched and used troops, they had to have organizational systems, flags and orders. Now these people do not have these systems. They are just groups of hungry and cold thieves, like livestock in groups, and do not know how to use these methods.
Wang Mang was very happy and all the ministers admired him.
Later, when Liu Bosheng of the Han army was involved, he called himself a general. After attacking the city, occupying the territory, and killing Zhen Fu, he issued a proclamation to promote his own ideas and denounce Wang Mang's crimes.
When Wang Mang heard this, he became worried and scared.
The Han army took advantage of the victory and surrounded Wancheng.
At first, Liu Shenggong, the distant brother of Shizu, joined the Pinglin Army first.
On the first day of the Xinsi lunar month in March, Wang Chang and Zhu Qian, the generals of Pinglin soldiers, Xinshi soldiers and Xiajiang soldiers, jointly supported Liu Shenggong as emperor, changed the title to the first year of Gengshi, and appointed various officials.
Wang Mang was even more frightened when he heard the news.
He wanted to show that he was in a stable mood, so he dyed his hair and beard black, summoned the beautiful women from all over the country, and made the daughter of a historian in Duling County his queen. He gave her a betrothal gift of 30,000 kilograms of gold, carriages, horses, slaves, various silks, pearls and jade and other valuables worth hundreds of millions.
Wang Mang personally greeted them between the steps on both sides of the front hall, and held a dinner ceremony for the newlyweds in the Shangxi Hall.
There were three concubines, Meiyu, and Heren, with titles similar to those of the Three Dukes; nine concubines, with titles similar to Jiuqing; twenty-seven beauties, with titles similar to Dafu; and eighty-one imperial concubines, with titles similar to Yuanshi: a total of one hundred and twenty people, all wearing seals and holding bow bags.
Empress Shi's father, Shi Chen, was granted the title of Marquis of Peace, and was appointed General of Ningshi. Shi Chen's two sons were both served as servants.
That day, strong winds blew, excavating houses and breaking trees.
The ministers congratulated and said: Gengzi said that the rain washed the road yesterday, Xin Chou said that it was clean and quiet, and there was no dust. That night, the east wind was strong, blowing from the northeast.
Xinchou day is the day of the main emperor in "Xun Gua".
"Xun Gua" symbolizes wind, and its meaning is submission. The principle of being a queen is clear, and the norms of being a mother are in place. This is the creation effect of gentleness and kindness.
"Book of Changes" says: Grant such great blessings to the king's mother.
"Book of Rites" says: Accept the happiness given by God. This kind of happiness is unlimited and endless.
All the forces that wanted to rely on the overthrown Han Dynasty and the Liu family who were kings with their virtues of fire were washed away and completely wiped out.
The crops are plentiful, the crops are multiplying, the people are happy, everyone is TOEFL, and the whole country is very lucky!
Every day, Wang Mang, together with the alchemist Zhaojun from Zhuojun, studied the art of sexual intercourse in the harem and indulged themselves in wanton debauchery.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
大赦天下，然犹曰： 故汉氏舂陵侯群子刘伯升与其族人婚姻党及北狄胡虏逆舆洎南僰虏若豆、孟迁，不用此书。
有能捕得此人者，皆封为上公，食邑万户，赐宝货五千万。
又诏： 太师王匡、国将哀章、司命孔仁、兖州牧寿良、卒正王闳、扬州牧李圣亟进所部州郡兵凡三十万众，迫措青、徐盗贼。
纳言将军严尤、秩宗将军陈茂、车骑将军王巡、左队大夫王吴亟进所部州郡兵凡十万众，迫措前队丑虏。
明告以生活丹青之信，复迷惑不解散，皆并力合击，殄灭之矣！
大司空隆新公，宗室戚属，前以虎牙将军东指则反虏破坏，西击则逆贼靡碎，此乃新室威宝之臣也。
如黠贼不解散，将遣大司空将百万之师征伐剿绝之矣！
遣七公干士隗嚣等七十二人分下赦令晓谕云。
嚣等既出，因逃亡矣。
四月，世祖与王常等别攻颍州，下昆阳、郾、定陵。
莽闻之愈恐。遣大司空王邑驰伟至雒阳，与司徒王寻发众郡兵百万，号曰 虎牙五威兵 ，平定山东。
得颛封爵，政决于邑，除用征诸明兵法六十三家术者，各持图书，受器械，备军吏。
倾府库以遣邑，多赍珍宝、猛兽，欲视饶富，用怖山东。
邑至雒阳，州郡各选精兵，牧守自将，定会者四十二万人，余在道不绝，车甲士马之盛，自古出师未尝有也。
六月，邑与司徒寻发雒阳，欲室宛，道出颍川，过昆阳。
昆阳时已降汉，汉兵守之。
严尤、陈茂与二公会，二公纵兵围昆阳。
严尤曰： 称尊号者在宛下，宜亟进。
translation: 
A nationwide amnesty was announced, but it was also said: Liu Boxheng, the cousin-in-law of the former Chongling Marquis of the Han Dynasty, and his clan, relatives, and party members, arrogantly created rumors, confused the masses, betrayed the destiny, and personally killed the Gengshi general Lian Dan and the front army officer Zhen Fu, people who belonged to Zhengliang Qiuci, as well as the rebel leader Yu of the Xiongnu in Beidi and the South bandits Lu Ruodou and Meng Qian. This proclamation does not apply.
Anyone who is able to catch these people will be granted the title of Grand Duke, with a fief of 10,000 households, and a reward of 50 million treasures.
He also issued an edict saying: Grand Master Wang Kuang, State General Aizhang, Si Ming Kong Ren, Yanzhou Mu Shouliang, Zuzheng Wang Hong and Yangzhou Mu Li Sheng quickly advanced a total of 300,000 troops from their respective states and counties to encircle and suppress the thieves in Qingzhou and Xuzhou.
Nayan General Yan You, Zhizong General Chen Mao, Chariot and Cavalry General Wang Xun, and left army officer Wang Wu quickly advanced a total of 100,000 troops from their respective states and counties to encircle and hunt down the ugly people in the front team.
Make it clear to them that if they surrender, they will have a way to survive. If they remain stubborn and do not disband on their own, then we will all work together to encircle and annihilate them!
Grand Sikonglong Xingong is a relative of the royal family. In the past, as General Huya, the rebels were defeated when they pointed to the east, and the rebel leaders were crushed when they attacked to the west. He was a minister with high authority and extraordinary talents in the new dynasty.
If the cunning thieves do not disband, Da Sikong will be sent to lead an army of millions to conquer them!
So seventy-two people, including Qi Gonggan Shi Kai Xiao, were sent to separate routes and issue pardon orders to various places.
As soon as Wei Xiao and others left the capital, they fled.
In April, Shizu, Wang Chang and others attacked Yingchuan County and captured Kunyang, Lin and Dingling counties.
Wang Mang was even more frightened when he heard the news. He sent Grand Sikong Wangyi to Luoyang in a chariot. He and Situ Wangxun mobilized millions of troops from various counties, called "Huya Five Mighty Soldiers", to pacify Shandong area.
He has the right to grant titles on his own, and the military and political plans are decided by Wang Yi. He appoints many experts who are familiar with the sixty-three military arts and strategies and tactics. Each of them carries books, receives weapons, and is a candidate officer.
He took out all the military supplies in the warehouse and handed them to Wang Yi, bringing more valuables and beasts with him, hoping to show the imperial court's wealth and use it to frighten the Shandong region.
When Wang Yi arrived in Luoyang, each state and county selected elite troops, led by state pastors and county governors. There were 420,000 people who gathered according to the prescribed time limit, and the rest were on the road in an endless stream. The troops, horses, weapons and equipment were all powerful and complete, and there had never been any troops sent out since ancient times.
In June, Wang Yi and Grand Situ Wang Xun set out from Luoyang and wanted to go to Wan County. They took the road to Yingchuan County and passed through Kunyang County.
Kunyang City had surrendered to the Han army at this time, and the Han army was guarding it.
Yan You and Chen Mao joined the two commanders, who commanded the army to surround Kunyang City.
Yan You said: The person who calls himself the emperor is in Wancheng and should advance quickly.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
彼破，诸城自定矣。
邑曰： 百万之师，所过当灭，今属此城，喋血而进，前歌后舞，顾不快邪！
遂围城数十重。
城中请降，不许。
严尤又曰：  归师勿遏，围城为之阙 ，可如兵法，使得逸出，以怖宛下。
邑又不听。
会世祖悉发郾、定陵兵数千人来救昆阳，寻、邑易之，自将万余人行陈，敕诸营皆按部毋得动，独迎，与汉兵战，不利。
大军不敢擅相救，汉兵乘胜杀寻。
昆阳中兵出并战，邑走，军乱。
大风飞瓦，雨如注水，大众崩坏号呼，虎豹股栗，士卒奔走，各还归其郡。
邑独与所将长安勇敢数千人还雒阳。
关中闻之震恐，盗贼并起。
又闻汉兵言，莽鸩杀孝平帝。
莽乃会公卿以下于王路堂，开所为平帝请命金滕之策，泣以视群臣。
命明学男张邯称说其德及符命事，因曰： 《易》言 伏戎于莽，升其高陵，三岁不兴。
莽 ，皇帝之名， 升 谓刘伯升。 高陵 谓高陵侯子翟义也。
言刘升、翟义为伏戎之兵于新皇帝世，犹殄灭不兴也。 群臣皆称万岁。
又令东方槛车传送数人，言 刘伯升等皆行大戮 。
民知其诈也。
先是，卫将军王涉素养道士西门君惠。
君惠好天文谶记，为涉言： 星孛扫宫室，刘氏当复兴，国师公姓名是也。
涉信其言，以语大司马董忠，数俱至国师殿中庐道语星宿，国师不应。
后涉特往，对歆涕泣言： 诚欲与公共安宗族，奈何不信涉也！
translation: 
Once that place was captured, other cities were naturally pacified.
Wang Yi said: With a million troops, all enemies in the places they pass through should be destroyed. Now capture this county, kill all the people inside, and march forward on the enemy's blood. The troops in the front will sing victory songs and the troops behind will dance in victory. Isn't it wonderful?
Then they surrounded Kunyang City on dozens of floors.
The city's defenders requested surrender, but were not allowed.
Yan You added: "Don't intercept the retreating army. When surrounding the city, you must leave a gap for the people inside. You can follow the law of war to make it possible for them to escape, so as to frighten Wancheng."
Wang Yi didn't listen.
It happened that Shizu mobilized thousands of troops from Lin County and Dingling County to rescue Kunyang City. Wang Xun and Wang Yi despised them and led more than 10,000 people to inspect the positions. They warned each military camp to restrain their subordinates from taking unauthorized actions. They fought alone and fought the Han army, which did not go well.
The army did not dare to come to the rescue without permission, so the Han army took advantage of the victory and killed Wang Xun.
The defenders in Kunyang City rushed out and attacked from both sides. Wang Yi fled and the army was in chaos.
The strong wind blew away the roof tiles, and the heavy rain was like splashing water. The army collapsed, shouting, and the tigers and leopards trembled in fear. The soldiers fled and each returned to their own counties.
Wang Yi returned to Luoyang alone with thousands of Chang'an warriors he led.
When the Guanzhong area heard the news, they were shocked and frightened, and thieves started revolting one after another.
I also heard from the Han army that Wang Mang had poisoned Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty.
Wang Mang gathered the officials below the Duke to Wang Lutang, opened the policy letter he had written on behalf of Emperor Ping to request relief from the disease and save his life, and later stored it in a safe, and showed it to the ministers with tears.
He ordered Zhang Han, a man of Mingxue, to praise his virtues and matters related to his destiny, and took the opportunity to say: "The Book of Changes" says: Ambush the army in the dense grass, climb the tall mountains to look out, and dare not advance. It will not rise until three years.
Mang is the emperor's name. Sheng means Liu Boxheng. Gaoling refers to Zhai Yi, the son of Gaolinghou.
If Liu Boxheng and Zhai Yi established underground armed forces in the era of the new emperor, they would still be eliminated and would not succeed. The ministers all shouted "Long live".
He also ordered Dongfang to transport several people in a prison car, saying that Liu Boxheng and others would be executed.
The people knew it was false.
In the early days, General Wang She of the Guard always supported the Taoist priest Ximen Junhui.
Ximen Junhui was fond of astronomical prophecies and said to Wang She: There is a star that shines brightly and sweeps the palace. The Liu Family Association will be revived, and the name of the Grand Master is.
Wang She believed what he said and told the Grand Sima Dong Zhong about it. They went to the duty room of the Imperial Preceptor in the palace many times to talk about the stars, but the Imperial Preceptor did not answer.
Later, Wang She came here and said to Liu Xin in tears: "I really want to protect the safety of our two families with you. Why don't you believe me?"


Chunk 18: 
original: 
歆因为言天文人事，东方必成。
涉曰： 新都哀侯小被病，功显君素耆酒，疑帝本非我家子也。
董公主中军精兵，涉领宫卫，伊休侯主殿中，如同心合谋，共劫持帝，东降南阳天子，可以全宗族；不者，俱夷灭矣！
伊休侯者，歆长子也，为侍中五官中朗将，莽素爱之。
歆怨莽杀其三子，又畏大祸至，遂与涉、忠谋，欲发。
歆曰： 当待太白星出，乃可。
忠以司中大赘起武侯孙伋亦主兵，复与伋谋。
伋归家，颜色变，不能食。
妻怪问之，语其状。
妻以告弟云阳陈邯，邯欲告之。
七月，伋与邯俱告，莽遣使者分召忠等。
时忠方进兵都肄，护军王咸谓忠谋久不发，恐漏泄，不如遂斩使者，勒兵入。
忠不听，遂与歆、涉会省户下。
莽令惲责问，皆服。
中黄门各拔刃将忠等送庐，忠拔剑欲自刎，侍中王望传言大司马反，黄门持剑共格杀之。
省中相惊传，勒兵至郎署，皆拔刃张弩。
更始将军史谌行诸署，告郎吏曰： 大司马有狂病，发，已诛。
皆令驰兵，莽欲以厌凶，使虎贲以斩马剑挫忠，盛以竹器，传曰 反虏出 。
下书赦大司马官属吏士为忠所诖误，谋反未发觉者。
收忠宗族，以醇醯毒药、尺白刃丛棘并一坎而埋之。
刘歆、王涉皆自杀。
莽以二人骨肉旧臣，恶其内溃，故隐其诛。
伊休侯叠又以素谨，歆讫不告，但免侍中中郎将，更为中散大夫。
后日殿中钩盾土山仙人掌旁有白头公青衣，郎吏见者私谓之国师公。
衍功侯喜素善卦，莽使筮之，曰： 忧兵火。
莽曰： 小儿安得此左道？
是乃予之皇祖叔父子侨欲来迎我也。
莽军师外破，大臣内畔，左右亡所信，不能复远念郡国，欲呼邑与计议。
崔发曰： 邑素小心，今失大众而征，恐其执节引决，宜有以大慰其意。
于是莽遣发驰传谕邑： 我年老毋適子，欲传邑以天下。
敕亡得谢，见勿复道。
邑到，以为大司马。
大长秋张邯为大司徒，崔发为大司空，司中寿容苗为国师，同说侯林为卫将军。
莽忧懑不能食，亶饮酒，啖鳆鱼。
translation: 
Liu Xin then talked to him about astronomy and personnel matters, and the Eastern army would definitely succeed.
Wang She said: Marquis Ai of Xindu has been ill since he was a child, and Gong Xianjun has always been a drunkard. He suspects that the emperor is not the son of our Wang family.
Duke Dong is in charge of the elite troops of the Chinese army, I am in charge of the palace guards, and Marquis Yixiu is in charge of the palace guards. If we all conspire together to kidnap the emperor and surrender to the east, the emperor who is currently stationed in Nanyang County can save our family; otherwise, we will all be killed and exterminated!
Yixiuhou was Liu Xin's eldest son and served as a lieutenant general in the fifth palace. Wang Mang always liked him.
Liu Xin resented Wang Mang for killing his three children and was afraid of a disaster, so he planned with Wang She and Dong Zhong to take action.
Liu Xin said: We should wait for Taibai Star to appear before taking action.
Dong Zhong put Sun Ji, the Marquis of Wu, in charge of the army because of his eldest daughter in the department, and discussed with Sun Ji.
When Sun Ji returned home, his expression changed and he couldn't eat.
His wife was surprised and asked him, and he told her what had happened.
His wife told her brother Chen Han from Yunyang County about these circumstances, and Chen Han wanted to report them.
In July, Sun Ji and Chen Han went to report together, and Wang Mang sent envoys to summon Dong Zhong and others respectively.
At this time, Dong Zhong was giving a lecture on martial arts and conducting a large-scale military training. Wang Xian, the guard of the army, said that Dong Zhong had been planning for a long time and had not taken action. He was afraid that the news would be exposed, so it was better to kill the envoy and lead the army in.
Dong Zhong refused to obey, so he met with Liu Xin and Wang She at the minister's office in the palace.
Wang Mang asked Zouwei to question them, and they all admitted it.
The eunuchs in the palace drew out their swords and sent Dong Zhong and others to their duty room. Dong Zhong drew out his sword and wanted to wipe his neck. Wang Wang, the attendant, reported that Da Sima Zao was killed, and the eunuchs took their swords and killed him together.
The minister's office was in panic, and they informed each other that the soldiers who were being intensively trained rushed to Langguan Yamen one after another, with their swords unsheathed and arrows loaded on their bows.
Gengshi General Shi Chen inspected the yamen of various Lang officials and told the Lang officials: "Da Sima was insane and attempted to make a conspiracy. He had just started and was executed."
Order them all to lay down their weapons. Wang Mang wanted to use Dong Zhong to avoid disasters, so he asked the Huben warriors to chop Dong Zhong into pieces with a horse-cutting sword, put it in a bamboo vessel, and announced that "the rebels have come out."
The following article pardons Da Sima's subordinate officials, officers and soldiers who were deceived by Dong Zhong and participated in the conspiracy without being discovered.
The family that arrested Dong Zhong buried them in a hole with strong vinegar, poison, knives, and thorn strips.
Liu Xin and Wang She both committed suicide.
Because these two people were close relatives and old subordinates, Wang Mang disliked people saying that he had an internal collapse, so he did not publicly announce their punishment.
Because Yixiu Hou Liu Die was always cautious, Liu Xin never informed him of their plan, so he only dismissed the general Zhonglang from his service and appointed him as the official Zhongsan.
Later, a white-haired old man in green clothes appeared next to the cactus on the rockery in the palace. The man who saw it said privately that he was the Grand Master.
Wang Xi, the Marquis of Yangong, was always good at fortune-telling. Wang Mang asked him to make a fortune-telling with yarrow, saying: Worried about war and fire.
Wang Mang said: How did the children learn these evil ways?
This is my imperial ancestor uncle Wang Ziqiao coming to pick me up.
Wang Mang's army suffered a defeat outside, and the ministers were subverting internally. There was no one around him who could be trusted. He could no longer consider distant counties and wanted to ask Wang Yi to come back to discuss with him.
Cui Fa said: "Wang Yi has always been careful. Now that he has lost his army and has to move back, I am afraid that he will commit suicide out of loyalty. We should find a way to comfort him."
So Wang Mang sent Cui Fa to ride a carriage to tell Wang Yi: I am old and have no son from my first wife, and I want to pass on the state power to you.
I order you not to examine your guilt and not to mention those things again when we meet.
Wang Yi arrived and appointed him as Grand Sima.
In the Great Changqiu period, Zhang Han served as the Grand Situ, Cui Fa served as the Grand Sikong, Miao Xin from Shourong in the Sizhong served as the National Preceptor, and Tongshuo Wanglin served as the General of the Guard.
Wang Mang was so depressed that he couldn't eat, so he only drank wine and ate abalone.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
读军书倦，因凭几寐，不复就枕矣。
性好时日小数，及事迫急，亶为厌胜。
遣使坏渭陵、延陵园门罘罳，曰： 毋使民复思也。
又以墨洿色其周垣。
号将至曰 岁宿 ，申水为 助将军 ，右庚 刻木校尉 ，前丙 耀金都尉鸀，又曰 执大斧，伐枯木；流大水，灭发火。
如此属不可胜记。
秋，太白星流入太微，烛地如月光。
成纪隗崔兄弟共劫大尹李育，以兄子隗嚣为大将军，攻杀雍州牧陈庆、安定卒正王旬，并其众，移书郡县，数莽罪恶万于桀、纣。
是月，析人邓晔、于匡起兵南乡百余人。
时析宰将兵数千屯鄡亭，备武关。
晔、匡谓宰曰： 刘帝已立，君何不知命也！
宰请降，尽得其众。
晔自称辅汉左将军，匡右将军，拔析、丹水，攻武关，都尉朱萌降。
进攻右队大夫宋纲，杀之，西拔湖。
莽愈忧，不知所出。
崔发言： 《周礼》及《春秋左氏》，国有大灾，则哭以厌之。
故《易》称 先号啕而后笑 。
宜呼嗟告天以求救。
莽自知败，乃率群臣至南郊，陈其符命本末，仰天曰： 皇天既命授臣莽，何不殄灭众贼？
即令臣莽非是，愿下雷霆诛臣莽！
因搏心大哭，气尽，伏而叩头。
又作告天策，自陈功劳，千余言。
诸生小民会旦夕哭，为设飧粥，甚悲哀及能诵策文者除以为郎，至五千余人。
惲将领之。
莽拜将军九人，皆以虎为号，九曰 九虎 将北军精兵数万人东，内其妻子宫中以为质。
时省中黄金万斤者为一匮，尚有六十匮，黄门、钩盾、臧府、中尚方处处各有数匮。
translation: 
When I got tired from reading military books, I took a nap on my desk and stopped going to bed.
He likes to do tricks to seek good luck and avoid disaster. When the situation is urgent, he still blindly tries to defeat the enemy.
He sent envoys to tear down the screens at the tomb gates of Weiling and Yanling, saying: Don't let the people think of the Han Dynasty anymore.
and blackened their walls with ink.
He called the general Suisu, Shenshui the assistant general, and Yougeng Kemu Xiaowei and Qian Bingyaojin Duwei. He also said: With a big ax, he cut down the dead wood; the water flowed out and drowned the remaining fire.
There are too many tricks like this to be recorded.
In autumn, the Taibai star reaches Taiweiyuan and shines on the ground like moonlight.
The Kui Cui brothers from Chengji County kidnapped the great Yin Li Yu together, and appointed their nephew Kai Xiao as the general. They attacked and killed Chen Qing, the shepherd of Yongzhou, and Zheng Wang Xun, the soldier of Anding County. They annexed their armies and sent proclamations to all counties, listing Wang Mang's crimes ten thousand times more than those of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
This month, Deng Ye and Yu Kuang, both from Xi County, raised troops in Nanxiang, with more than a hundred troops.
At this time, the magistrate of Xi County led thousands of troops to station in Zhengting to defend Wuguan.
Deng Ye and Yu Kuang said to the county magistrate: The Emperor of the Liu family has ascended the throne, why don't you know the destiny?
The county magistrate asked for surrender and all his troops were accepted.
Deng Ye claimed to be the general of the left to assist the Han Dynasty, and Yu Kuang claimed to be the general to the right to assist the Han. They captured Xixian and Danshui counties, attacked Wuguan, and the captain Zhu Meng surrendered.
Attacked Song Gang, the doctor of the right team, killed him, and attacked Hu County from the west.
Wang Mang was even more worried and didn't know how to deal with it.
Cui Fa said: "The Rites of Zhou" and "The Legend of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period" say that when a country encounters a great disaster, it will cry to defeat it.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says that you should cry loudly first, and then laugh.
We can sigh and pray to God for help.
Wang Mang knew that he had failed, so he led a large number of ministers to the southern suburbs and stated the story of how he received his destiny. He looked up to the sky and said: Since God has decreed that the state power will be handed over to me, Wang Mang, why not eliminate those thieves?
If I, Wang Mang, are wrong, I hope you will send down thunder and kill me, Wang Mang!
So he beat his chest and cried loudly. He couldn't cry anymore and kowtowed to the ground.
He also wrote a strategy letter to the heaven, stating his achievements, with more than a thousand words.
All the Confucian scholars and common people gathered together to cry every morning and evening, and prepared porridge for them. Those who cried very sadly and could recite the policy were appointed as Langguan, numbering more than 5,000 people.
They were led by Yue Pan.
Wang Mang appointed nine generals, all using "Hu" as the general's name, called "Nine Tigers". He led tens of thousands of elite soldiers of the capital guard force to the east and took their wives and children into the palace as hostages.
At this time, there were still 60 boxes of 10,000 kilograms of gold stored in the palace, and there were several boxes in Huangmen, Goudun, Zangfu, and Zhongshangfang.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
长乐御府、中御府及都内、平准帑藏钱、帛、珠玉财物甚众，莽愈爱之，赐九虎士人四千钱。
众重怨，无斗意。
九虎至华阴回溪，距隘，北从河南至山。
于匡持数千弩，乘堆挑战。
邓晔将二万余人从阌乡南出枣街、作姑，破其一部，北出九虎后击之。
六虎败走。
史熊、王况诣阙归死，莽使使责死者按在，皆自杀；其四虎亡。
三虎郭钦、陈翚、成重收散卒，保京师仓。
邓晔开武关迎汉，丞相司直李松将二千余人至湖，与晔等共攻京师仓，未下。晔以弘农掾王宪为校尉，将数百人北度渭，入左冯翊界，降城略地。
李松遣偏将军韩臣等径西至新丰，与莽波水将军战，波水走。
韩臣等追奔，遂至长门宫。
王宪北至频阳，所过迎降。
大姓栎阳申砀、下邽王大皆率众随宪，属县斄严春、茂陵董喜、蓝田王孟、槐里汝臣、盩厔王扶、阳陵严本、杜陵屠门少之属，众皆数千人，假号称汉将。
时李松、邓晔以为，京师小小仓尚未可下，何况长安城！当须更始帝大兵到。
即引军至华阴，治攻具。
而长安旁兵四会城下，闻天水隗氏兵方到，皆争欲先入城，贪立大功卤掠之利。
莽遣使者分赦城中诸狱囚徒，皆授兵，杀豨饮其血，与誓曰： 有不为新室者，社鬼记之！
更始将军史谌将度渭桥，皆散走。
谌空还。
众兵发掘莽妻子父祖冢，烧其棺椁及九庙、明堂、辟雍，火照城中。
或谓莽曰： 城门卒，东方人，不可信。
莽更发越骑士为卫，门置六百人，各一校尉。
十月戊申朔，兵从宣平城门入，民间所谓都门也。
张邯行城门，逢兵见杀。
王邑、王林、王巡、惲等分将兵距击北阙下。
汉兵贪莽封力战者七百余人。
会日暮，官府邸第尽奔亡。
二日己酉，城中少年朱弟、张鱼等恐见卤掠，趋讠雚并和，烧作室门，斧敬法闼，呼曰： 反虏王莽，何不出降？
translation: 
There were many coins, silks, pearls, solid jade and other kinds of property in Changle Palace's Yufu, Zhongyufu and the capital. Wang Mang was even more stingy about them and rewarded each soldier of the Nine Tigers 4,000 coins.
The soldiers were very resentful and had no will to fight.
General Jiuhu arrived at Huixi in Huayin County and guarded the dangerous points, starting from the Yellow River in the north and reaching Mount Xiao in the south.
Yu Kuang led thousands of archers and climbed up to challenge.
Deng Ye led more than 20,000 people from Minxiang County south to the Zaojie and Zuogu lines, defeated one of them, and went north to attack them behind the Nine Tigers Defense Line.
The six tigers were defeated.
Shi Xiong and Wang Kuang returned to the court to accept the death penalty. Wang Mang asked the messenger to ask them where the dead people were, and they all committed suicide; the other four tigers fled.
There are also three tigers, Guo Qin, Chen Gong and Cheng Zhong, who gather scattered soldiers to defend the capital warehouse.
Deng Ye opened the Wuguan Pass to welcome the Han army. Prime Minister Sizhi Li Song led more than 2,000 people to Hu County and attacked the capital warehouse with Deng Ye and others. However, they failed to capture it. Deng Hua sent Wang Xian, an official in Hongnong County, as a school captain and led hundreds of people to cross the Wei River northward and entered Zuofeng Yi's territory. They captured the city and occupied the territory.
Li Song sent partial general Han Chen and others to go straight west to Xinfeng County, where they fought Wang Mang's General Bo Shui, but General Bo Shui was defeated and fled.
Han Chen and others chased the escaping defeated soldiers until they reached Changmen Palace.
Wang Xian went north to Pinyang County, and all the local officials he passed came to welcome the surrender.
Shen Jie, a native of Shuoyang County, and Wang Dadu, a native of Xiabang County, led troops to follow Wang Xian. Yan Chun from Yatai County of Sanfuge County, Dong Xi from Maoling County, Wang Meng from Lantian County, Ru Chen from Huaili County, Wang Fu from Panyi County, Yan Ben from Yangling County, and Tu Menshao from Duling County all had thousands of troops, and they named themselves generals of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, Li Song and Deng Ye believed that the small storage area in the capital had not yet been captured, let alone Chang'an City. They could only attack the city after waiting for the arrival of Emperor Gengshi's army.
He took his army to Huayin County and made siege equipment.
The troops near Chang'an gathered under the city from all sides. When they heard that the troops from the Wei family in Tianshui County were about to arrive, they all rushed to advance into the city, hoping to gain great achievements and rob property.
Wang Mang sent envoys to pardon the prisoners in various prisons in the city, and distributed weapons to the prisoners. They killed pigs and drank their blood. They swore an oath to them: If there is anyone who does not serve the new dynasty, the ghosts of the society will remember him!
Gengshi General Shi Chen led them across the Wei Bridge, but they all scattered and fled.
Shi Chen came back alone.
Soldiers from various ministries dug up the graves of Wang Mang's wife, children, father, and grandfather, and burned their coffins as well as the Nine Temples, Mingtang, and Piyong. The fire shone into the city.
Someone said to Wang Mang: The guards at the city gate are from the Cambodian region and cannot be trusted.
Wang Mang transferred Yue cavalry to serve as guards. Each city gate was equipped with 600 people, each with a captain.
On the first day of October, the first day of the Wushen lunar month, the siege troops entered through the Xuanping city gate, making it what the people call the capital gate.
Zhang Han inspected the city gate and was killed when he encountered soldiers.
Wang Yi, Wang Lin, Wang Xun and Yu Tang respectively led their troops to fight at the foot of Beique.
The soldiers of the Han army coveted the reward stipulated by Emperor Gengshi for capturing or killing Wang Mang, so more than 700 soldiers fought bravely.
It happened to be dark, and the officials and nobles all fled.
On the second day of the month, Zhu Di, Zhang Yu and others in the city were afraid that they would be robbed. They formed a group, ran and made noise, burned the gate of Shangfang's workshop, cut open the small door of Jingfa Hall, and shouted: "Rebel Wang Mang, why don't you come out and surrender?"


Chunk 21: 
original: 
火及掖廷承明，黄皇室主所居也。
莽避火宣室前殿，火辄随之。
宫人妇女啼呼曰： 当奈何！
时莽绀袀服，带玺韨，持虞帝匕首。
天文郎桉栻于前，日时加某，莽旋席随斗柄而坐，曰： 天生德于予，汉兵其如予何！
莽时不食，少气困矣。
三日庚戌，晨旦明，群臣扶掖莽，自前殿南下椒除，西出白虎门，和新公王揖奉车待门外，莽就车，之渐台，欲阻池水，犹抱持符命、威斗，公、卿、大夫、侍中、黄门郎从官尚千余人随之。
王邑昼夜战，罢极，士死伤略尽，驰入宫，间关至渐台，见其子侍中睦解衣冠欲逃，邑叱之令还，父子共守莽。
军人入殿中，呼曰： 反虏王莽安在？
有美人出房曰 在渐台。
众兵追之，围数百重。
台上亦弓弩与相射，稍稍落去。
矢尽，无以复射，短兵接。
王邑父子、惲、王巡战死，莽入室。
下餔时，众兵上台，王揖、赵博、苗、唐尊、王盛、中常侍王参等皆死台上。
商人杜吴杀莽，取其绶。
校尉东海公宾就，故大行治礼，见吴问： 绶主所在？
曰： 室中西北陬间。
就识，斩莽首。
军人分裂莽身，支节肌骨脔分，争相杀者数十人。
公宾就持莽首诣王宪。
宪自称汉大将军，城中兵数十万皆属焉，舍东宫，妻莽后宫，乘其车服。
六日癸丑，李松、邓晔入长安，将军赵萌、申屠建亦至，以王宪得玺绶不辄上、多挟宫女、建天子鼓旗，收斩之。
传莽首诣更始，悬宛市，百姓共提击之，或切食其舌。
translation: 
The fire burned to the official offices of the harem, where the head of the Huang royal family lived.
Wang Mang avoided the fire and went to the front hall of Xuanshi, but the fire always followed him.
The palace women cried and said: What should be done!
At this time, Wang Mang was wearing a full set of sky-blue clothes, wearing an imperial seal, and holding the head of Emperor Yu.
Tian Wenlang held the wipe in front and moved the pointer at any time. Wang Mang turned his seat and sat in the direction pointed by the bucket handle, saying: God has given me the virtue and mission of governing the country, what can the desert army do to me!
Wang Mang didn't eat at this time and felt a little sleepy.
On the third day of Gengxu, it dawned in the morning. The courtiers supported Wang Mang, walked south from the front hall down the palace avenue, walked west out of the White Tiger Gate, and arranged a car with the new prince Wang Yi to wait outside the gate. Wang Mang boarded the car and headed to Jiantai. He wanted to rely on the water in the pool as a defense, but he still held on to his fortune and power. He was followed by more than a thousand officials including the official Gongqing, Shizhong, Huang Menlang and so on.
Wang Yi had been fighting day and night, and was extremely tired. The soldiers were almost dead and wounded. He flew into the palace, and after many twists and turns, he came to the stage. He saw his son, Wang Mu, the servant, taking off his clothes and hat and trying to escape. Wang Yi stopped him and asked him to return. Both father and son guarded Wang Mang.
The soldiers entered the palace and shouted: Where is the rebel Wang Mang?
A beautiful woman came out of the room and said: He is on the stage.
A large number of soldiers chased after him and surrounded hundreds of soldiers.
On the stage, bows and arrows were also used to shoot at the surrounding soldiers, and the surrounding soldiers retreated slightly.
The arrows on the stage were all used up, and there were no more arrows to be fired, and the soldiers were fighting hand to hand.
Wang Yi, his son, Zou Pan, and Wang Xun died fighting, and Wang Mang hid in the inner room.
After Shen Shi, a large number of soldiers came to the stage. Wang Yi, Zhao Bo, Miao Xin, Tang Zun, Wang Sheng and Zhongchang Shi Wang Shen all died on the stage.
Businessman Du Wu killed Wang Mang and took off his seal tie.
The captain of the school, the Duke of Donghai County, who was the former chief minister of Daxing, came to visit. When he saw Du Wu, he asked where the owner of this tie was.
Du Wu replied: In the room in the northwest corner of the room.
The official knew him well, so he cut off Wang Mang's head.
The soldiers split Wang Mang's body. His limbs, joints, muscles, and bones were cut into many pieces. Dozens of people competed to kill him.
The official took Wang Mang's head and went to Wang Xian.
Wang Xian claimed to be the general of the Han Dynasty. Hundreds of thousands of troops in the city belonged to him. He lived in Changle Palace, took Wang Mang's concubines as his concubines, and used Wang Mang's carriages, horses, clothes, and utensils.
On the 6th day of Guichou, Li Song and Deng Ye entered Chang'an, and generals Zhao Meng and Shen Tujian also came. Because Wang Xian had seized the imperial seal and failed to hand it over, he hid many maids secretly, and used the emperor's guard of honor to capture and kill him.
Wang Mang's head was sent to Emperor Gengshi and hung in the streets of Wancheng. The people threw it at it, and some cut off his tongue and ate it.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
莽扬州牧李圣、司命孔仁兵败山东，圣格死，仁将其众降，已而叹曰： 吾闻食人食者死其事。
拔剑自刺死。
及曹部监杜普、陈定大尹沈意、九江连率贾萌皆守郡不降，为汉兵所诛。
赏都大尹王钦及郭钦守京师仓，闻莽死，乃降，更始义之，皆封为侯。
太师王匡、国将哀章降雒阳，传诣宛，斩之。
严尤、陈茂败昆阳下，走至沛郡谯，自称汉将，召会吏邱。
尤为称说王莽篡位天时所亡、圣汉复兴状，茂伏而涕泣。
闻故汉钟武侯刘圣聚众汝南称尊号，尤、茂降之。
以尤为大司马，茂为丞相。
十余日败，尤、茂并死。
郡县皆举城降，天下悉归汉。
初，申屠建尝事崔发为《诗》，建至，发降之。
后复称说，建令丞相刘赐斩发以徇。
史谌、王延、王林、王吴、赵闳亦降，复见杀。
初，诸假号兵人人望封侯。
申屠建既斩王宪，又扬言三辅黠共杀其主，吏民惶恐，属县屯聚，建等不能下，驰白更始。
二年二月，更始到长安，下诏大赦，非王莽子，他皆除其罪，故王氏宗族得全。
三辅悉平，更始都长安，居长乐宫。
府藏完具，独未央宫烧攻莽三日，死则案堵复故。
更始至，岁余政教不行。
明年夏，赤眉樊崇等众数十万人入关，立刘盆子，称尊号，攻更始，更始降之。
赤眉遂烧长安宫室市里，害更始。
民饥饿相食，死者数十万，长安为虚，城中无人行。
宗庙园陵皆发掘，唯霸陵、杜陵完。
translation: 
Wang Mang's Yangzhou shepherd Li Sheng and his commander Kong Ren were defeated in the Shandong area. Li Sheng died in a fight, and Kong Ren led his troops to surrender. Then he sighed and said: I heard that if you enjoy someone's salary, you have to die for his cause.
Then he drew his sword and committed suicide.
Du Pu, the eunuch of Cao's Ministry, Shen Yi, the great Yin of Chending County, and Jia Meng, the leader of Jiujiang County Company, all defended the county and refused to surrender, so they were killed by the Han army.
Wang Qin and Guo Qin, the great Yins of Shangdu County, were guarding the capital warehouse. When they heard that Wang Mang was dead, they surrendered. Emperor Gengshi believed that they had upheld integrity and granted them the title of marquis.
Taishi Wang Kuang and General Aizhang surrendered in Luoyang and were sent to Wancheng to kill them.
After Yan You and Chen Mao were beaten at the foot of Kunyang City, they fled to Qiao County, Pei County. They claimed to be generals of the Desert Army and called a gathering of local officials and civilians.
Yan You preached to them about Wang Mang's theft of the throne, God's will to destroy him, and the revival of the wise Han Dynasty. Chen Mao fell to the ground and cried.
Hearing that Liu Sheng, the former Zhongwu Marquis of the Han Dynasty, gathered his troops in Runan County and claimed to be emperor, Yan You and Chen Mao surrendered to him.
Liu Sheng appointed Yan You as Grand Sima and Chen Mao as Prime Minister.
They failed for more than ten days, and both Yan You and Chen Mao died.
All counties and counties surrendered, and the whole country returned to the rule of the Han Dynasty.
Earlier, Shentu Jian had followed Cui Fa to study the Book of Songs. When Shentu Jian came to Chang'an, Cui Fa surrendered to him.
Later, he promoted Wang Mang's replacement of the Han Dynasty, and Shentu Jian asked Prime Minister Liu Ci to kill Cui Fa to show the public.
Shi Chen, Wang Yan, Wang Lin, Wang Wu and Zhao Hong also surrendered and were killed.
At first, everyone in the troops who established their own names wanted to be granted the title of marquis.
Shen Tujian had not only killed Wang Xian, but also threatened that the people in the Sanfu area were cunning and killed his monarch together. Therefore, the officials and civilians in the Sanfu area became frightened, and the counties under their jurisdiction gathered troops to separate themselves. Shen Tujian and others failed to capture it, so they sent flying horses to report to Gengshi Emperor.
In February of the second year of Gengshi, Emperor Gengshi came to Chang'an and issued an edict announcing a general amnesty. As long as they were not Wang Mang's children, everyone else would be pardoned for their crimes, so the Wang family could be preserved.
All the Sanfu areas were pacified, and Emperor Gengshi made his capital Chang'an and lived in Changle Palace.
The treasury was intact, except for the Weiyang palace fire that attacked Wang Mang for three days. Once Wang Mang died, he settled down and returned to his original state.
After the arrival of Emperor Gengshi, it took more than a year for the political education to be implemented throughout the country.
In the summer of the next year, hundreds of thousands of people from the Red Eyebrow Army, Fan Chong and others entered Hangu Pass, supported Liu Penzi as emperor, and attacked Emperor Gengshi, who surrendered to them.
The Red Eyebrow Army burned the palaces and streets of Chang'an and killed Emperor Gengshi.
The people were starving to the point of cannibalism, and hundreds of thousands of people died. The city of Chang'an was in ruins, and no one walked in the city.
All the ancestral temples and tombs of the ancestors of the Han Dynasty have been excavated, but only Du Ling and Ba Ling are still intact.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
六月，世祖即位，然后宗庙社稷复立，天下艾安。
赞曰： 王莽始起外戚，折节力行，以要名誉，宗族称孝，师友归仁。
及其居位辅政，成、哀之际，勤劳国家，直道而行，动见称述。
岂所谓 在家必闻，在国必闻 ， 色取仁而行违 者邪？
莽既不仁而有佞邪之材，又乘四父历世之权，遭汉中微，国统三绝，而太后寿考为之宗主，故得肆其奸惹，以成篡盗之祸。
推是言之，亦天时，非人力之致矣。
及其窃位南面，处非所据，颠覆之势险于桀、纣，而莽晏然自以黄、虞复出也。
乃始恣睢，奋其威诈，滔天虐民，穷凶极恶，流毒诸夏，乱延蛮貉，犹未足逞其欲焉。
是以四海之内，嚣然丧其乐生之心，中外愤怨，远近俱发，城池不守，支体分裂，遂令天下城邑为虚，丘垅发掘，害遍生民，辜及朽骨，自书传所载乱臣贼子无道之人，考其祸败，未有如莽之甚者也。
昔秦燔《诗》、《书》以立私议，莽诵《六艺》以文奸言，同归殊途，俱用灭亡，皆炕龙绝气，非命之运，紫色蛙声，余分闰位，圣王之驱除云尔！
translation: 
In June, King Shizu ascended the throne, and then the state power was re-established and the country was at peace.
Praise says: Wang Mang started his career as a relative of the emperor, worked hard and worked hard to gain fame. His family praised him for his filial piety, and his teachers and friends praised him for his benevolent character.
When he ascended to a high position, he assisted in government affairs. During the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, he worked hard in governing the country and acted with integrity. His every move was often praised by people.
Could it be that he is what Confucius said: He must have a reputation in his family and in the court. On the surface, he seems to be in favor of generosity and kindness, but in his actions he violates it?
Wang Mang originally had no benevolent character, but he had the talent for smooth talk, hypocrisy and treachery. He also used his four uncles to experience the power held by Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng. When the Han Dynasty declined midway, the throne had no heirs three times, and the Queen Mother Wang lived long enough to be his protector for a long time, so he was able to carry out his treacherous and evil methods, thus causing the disaster of usurping the throne and stealing political power.
Based on these facts, it can be deduced that this is also the time of heaven and cannot be achieved by human power.
When he stole the emperor's position and occupied a position that he should not occupy, the trend of defeat was faster than that of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou, but Wang Mang casually believed that he was the reincarnation of the Yellow Emperor and Yu Shun.
So he began to indulge in violence, exercised his power and power wantonly, deceived God, harmed the people, and was extremely vicious, poisoning the whole country and spreading disasters to foreign countries in all directions, but it was not enough to satisfy his desires.
Therefore, the people all over the country sadly lost their intention to live happily. The court and localities were resentful. They mobilized from far and near. The capital could not be defended and the body was torn apart. Finally, the cities across the country were reduced to ruins and tombs were excavated, killing all the living and the dead. Since there are written records of unscrupulous people like rebellious ministers and traitors, if we look at the disasters they caused and the failures they suffered, none are as severe as Wang Mang.
In the past, the Qin Dynasty burned Chu Jing, Shu Jing and other classics to establish his own family's claims. Wang Mang quoted the Six Classics to embellish fallacies. Their purpose was exactly the same, but their methods were completely different, which led to their destruction. They all had no virtue and stole the throne. They were not destiny. They were just some variegated obscenities and extra leap months. They were the targets of the Holy Kings.


