Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 22]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
四年五月，莽曰： 保成师友祭酒唐林、故谏议祭酒琅邪纪逡，孝弟忠恕，敬上爱下，博通旧闻，德行醇备，至于黄发，靡有愆失。
其封林为建德侯，逡为封德侯，位皆特进，见礼如三公。
赐弟一区，钱三百万，授几杖焉。
六月，更授诸侯茅土于明堂，曰： 予制作地理，建封五等，考之经艺，合之传记，通于义理，论之思之，至于再三，自始建国之元以来九年于兹，乃今定矣。
予亲设文石之平，陈菁茅四色之土，钦告于岱宗泰社后土、先祖先妣，以班授之。
各就厥国，养牧民人，用成功业。
其在缘边，若江南，非诏所召，遣侍于帝城者，纳言掌货大夫且调都内故钱，予其禄，公岁八十万，侯、伯四十万，子、男二十万。
然复不能尽得。
莽好空言，慕古法，多封爵人，性实遴啬，托以地理未定，故且先赋茅土，用慰喜封者。
是岁，复明六管之令。
每一管下，为设科条防禁，犯者罪至死，吏民抵罪者浸众。
又一切调上公以下诸有奴婢者，率一口出钱三千六百，天下愈愁，盗贼起。
纳言冯常以六管谏，莽大怒，免常官。
置执法左右刺奸。
选用能吏侯霸等分督六尉、六队，如汉刺史，与三公士郡一人从事。
临淮瓜田仪等为盗贼，依阻会稽长州，琅邪女子吕母亦起。
初，吕母子为县吏，为宰所冤杀。
母散家财，以酤酒买兵弩，阴厚贫穷少年，得百余人，遂攻海曲县，杀其宰以祭子墓。
引兵入海，其众浸多，后皆万数。
translation: 
In May of the fourth year, Wang Mang said: "Baocheng's masters and friends offered wine to Tang Lin and Yuan Jianyi to offer wine to Langye County. He was a man of discipline, filial to his parents, respectful to his elder brothers, loyal to things, benevolent to others, respectful of the court, and caring for the people. He was widely familiar with ancient books, and his virtues were pure and perfect until he was old, without any fault."
Lu Ta was granted the title of Jianshan Fortress, and Xian Zhi was granted the title of Dehou. They were both given the rank of special advance. The etiquette for receiving them was the same as meeting the three princes.
He was rewarded with a big house, three million in money, and the treatment of a pen and a cane.
In June, he again awarded the thatched soil that symbolized the feudal state to the princes in the Mingtang, saying: I planned the land system and the five feudal princes according to the text of the classics, in line with the explanations of the classics, and through the principles of the classics. After thinking and discussing again and again, it has been almost nine years since the first year of the founding of the country, and it was officially finalized today.
I personally set up the aragonite steps, displayed jingmao and four-color soil, prayed respectfully to Mount Tai, the national clan, the God of the Earth and my ancestors, and then conferred it.
Each returned to his own feudal state to educate and discipline the people in order to establish meritorious deeds.
Those princes in the border areas or in the Jiangnan area, although they were not summoned by Shaoling but were sent to the capital to serve the emperor, Na Yan was in charge of the goods and the money in the capital was allocated to distribute their salaries. The duke was 800,000 yuan per year, the marquis and earl were 400,000 yuan per year, and the viscount and baron were 200,000 yuan per year.
Still can't quite get it though.
Wang Mang liked to talk empty words, envied the ancient system, and often granted titles to people. His character was actually stingy, and he used the undetermined land plan as an excuse, so he first granted the title of thatched land to symbolize the feudal state to comfort those who liked the title.
This year, six financial and economic management systems were reaffirmed.
Every time a management system is issued, laws and regulations must be set up to prevent it. Those who violate it may even be executed for the most serious crimes. Officials and civilians are punished for more crimes.
He also levied a tax on all those who kept slaves and slaves, each slave had to pay 3,600 yuan. The people of the world became more resentful and thieves rose up.
Nayan and Feng Chang advised him on the six management systems. Wang Mang was furious and removed Feng Chang from his official position.
Set up law enforcement on the left and law enforcement on the right.
Select capable officials, Hou Baren, to supervise the Sixth Lieutenant and the Sixth Team respectively. Their powers are like the governors of the Han Dynasty, and they will accompany one person from each county to handle relevant matters.
Guatianyi and others from Linhuai County acted as thieves and occupied Changzhouyuan, the capital of Kuaiji County. Lu Mu, a woman from Langxie County, also started to rebel.
At first, Lu's mother's son was a county official and was unjustly killed by the county magistrate.
Lu's mother used her family's property to buy wine, meat, and weapons. She secretly treated poor young men and gained more than a hundred people, then attacked Haiqu County, killed the county magistrate and went to worship her son's grave.
Then she led her troops to the sea, and her team gradually grew, eventually totaling tens of thousands of people.

summary:
summary line 0: In the fourth year of his reign, Wang Mang granted titles and rewards to several officials, including Lu Ta and Xian Zhi, who received the rank of special advance and were treated with the same etiquette as the three princes. He also awarded them houses, money, and ceremonial items. In June, he formally enfeoffed princes at the Mingtang, claiming he had spent nearly nine years planning the land system and feudal hierarchy based on classical texts. However, Wang Mang was known for his empty rhetoric and stinginess, using the undetermined land plan as an excuse to delay actual implementation while granting symbolic titles to appease those who desired rank.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
四年五月，莽曰： 保成师友祭酒唐林、故谏议祭酒琅邪纪逡，孝弟忠恕，敬上爱下，博通旧闻，德行醇备，至于黄发，靡有愆失。
其封林为建德侯，逡为封德侯，位皆特进，见礼如三公。
赐弟一区，钱三百万，授几杖焉。
六月，更授诸侯茅土于明堂，曰： 予制作地理，建封五等，考之经艺，合之传记，通于义理，论之思之，至于再三，自始建国之元以来九年于兹，乃今定矣。
予亲设文石之平，陈菁茅四色之土，钦告于岱宗泰社后土、先祖先妣，以班授之。
各就厥国，养牧民人，用成功业。
其在缘边，若江南，非诏所召，遣侍于帝城者，纳言掌货大夫且调都内故钱，予其禄，公岁八十万，侯、伯四十万，子、男二十万。
然复不能尽得。
莽好空言，慕古法，多封爵人，性实遴啬，托以地理未定，故且先赋茅土，用慰喜封者。
是岁，复明六管之令。
每一管下，为设科条防禁，犯者罪至死，吏民抵罪者浸众。
又一切调上公以下诸有奴婢者，率一口出钱三千六百，天下愈愁，盗贼起。
纳言冯常以六管谏，莽大怒，免常官。
置执法左右刺奸。
选用能吏侯霸等分督六尉、六队，如汉刺史，与三公士郡一人从事。
临淮瓜田仪等为盗贼，依阻会稽长州，琅邪女子吕母亦起。
初，吕母子为县吏，为宰所冤杀。
母散家财，以酤酒买兵弩，阴厚贫穷少年，得百余人，遂攻海曲县，杀其宰以祭子墓。
引兵入海，其众浸多，后皆万数。
translation: 
In May of the fourth year, Wang Mang said: "Baocheng's masters and friends offered wine to Tang Lin and Yuan Jianyi to offer wine to Langye County. He was a man of discipline, filial to his parents, respectful to his elder brothers, loyal to things, benevolent to others, respectful of the court, and caring for the people. He was widely familiar with ancient books, and his virtues were pure and perfect until he was old, without any fault."
Lu Ta was granted the title of Jianshan Fortress, and Xian Zhi was granted the title of Dehou. They were both given the rank of special advance. The etiquette for receiving them was the same as meeting the three princes.
He was rewarded with a big house, three million in money, and the treatment of a pen and a cane.
In June, he again awarded the thatched soil that symbolized the feudal state to the princes in the Mingtang, saying: I planned the land system and the five feudal princes according to the text of the classics, in line with the explanations of the classics, and through the principles of the classics. After thinking and discussing again and again, it has been almost nine years since the first year of the founding of the country, and it was officially finalized today.
I personally set up the aragonite steps, displayed jingmao and four-color soil, prayed respectfully to Mount Tai, the national clan, the God of the Earth and my ancestors, and then conferred it.
Each returned to his own feudal state to educate and discipline the people in order to establish meritorious deeds.
Those princes in the border areas or in the Jiangnan area, although they were not summoned by Shaoling but were sent to the capital to serve the emperor, Na Yan was in charge of the goods and the money in the capital was allocated to distribute their salaries. The duke was 800,000 yuan per year, the marquis and earl were 400,000 yuan per year, and the viscount and baron were 200,000 yuan per year.
Still can't quite get it though.
Wang Mang liked to talk empty words, envied the ancient system, and often granted titles to people. His character was actually stingy, and he used the undetermined land plan as an excuse, so he first granted the title of thatched land to symbolize the feudal state to comfort those who liked the title.
This year, six financial and economic management systems were reaffirmed.
Every time a management system is issued, laws and regulations must be set up to prevent it. Those who violate it may even be executed for the most serious crimes. Officials and civilians are punished for more crimes.
He also levied a tax on all those who kept slaves and slaves, each slave had to pay 3,600 yuan. The people of the world became more resentful and thieves rose up.
Nayan and Feng Chang advised him on the six management systems. Wang Mang was furious and removed Feng Chang from his official position.
Set up law enforcement on the left and law enforcement on the right.
Select capable officials, Hou Baren, to supervise the Sixth Lieutenant and the Sixth Team respectively. Their powers are like the governors of the Han Dynasty, and they will accompany one person from each county to handle relevant matters.
Guatianyi and others from Linhuai County acted as thieves and occupied Changzhouyuan, the capital of Kuaiji County. Lu Mu, a woman from Langxie County, also started to rebel.
At first, Lu's mother's son was a county official and was unjustly killed by the county magistrate.
Lu's mother used her family's property to buy wine, meat, and weapons. She secretly treated poor young men and gained more than a hundred people, then attacked Haiqu County, killed the county magistrate and went to worship her son's grave.
Then she led her troops to the sea, and her team gradually grew, eventually totaling tens of thousands of people.

summary:
summary line 1: Wang Mang reaffirmed six financial management systems, establishing harsh laws with punishments including execution for violations. He levied taxes on slave owners, requiring 3,600 yuan per slave, which caused widespread resentment and led to the rise of bandits. When officials like Nayan and Feng Chang advised against these policies, Wang Mang removed them from office. He appointed law enforcement officers with powers similar to Han dynasty governors to supervise the six systems. Rebellions erupted across the country, including Guatianyi's occupation of Changzhouyuan and Lu Mu's uprising in Langxie County, where a woman whose son was unjustly killed by a county magistrate gathered followers, attacked Haiqu County, and eventually commanded tens of thousands of troops.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
莽遣使者即赦盗贼，还言： 盗贼解，辄复合。
问其故，皆曰愁法禁烦苛，不得举手。
力作所得，不足以给贡税。
闭门自守，又坐邻伍铸钱挟铜，奸吏因以愁民。
民穷，悉起为盗贼。
莽大怒，免之。
其或顺指，言 民骄黠当诛 。及言 时运适然，且灭不久 ，莽说，辄迁之。
是岁八月，莽亲之南郊，铸作威斗。
威斗者，以五石铜为之，若北斗，长二尺五寸，欲以厌胜众兵。
既成，令司命负之，莽出在前，入在御旁。
铸斗日，大寒，百官人马有冻死者。
五年正月朔，北军南门灾。
以大司马司允费兴为荆州牧，见，问到部方略，兴对曰： 荆、扬之民率依阻山泽，以渔采为业。
间者，国张六管，税山泽，妨夺民之利，连年久旱，百姓饥穷，故为盗贼。
兴到部，欲令明晓告盗贼归田里，假贷犁牛种食，阔其租赋，几可以解释安集。
莽怒，免兴官。
天下吏以不得奉禄，并为奸利，郡尹县宰家累千金。
莽下诏曰： 详考始建国二年胡虏猾夏以来，诸军吏及缘边吏大夫以上为奸利增产致富者，收其家所有财产五分之四，以助边急。
公府士驰传天下，考覆贪饕，开吏告其将，奴婢告其主，几以禁奸，奸愈甚。
皇孙功崇公宗坐自画容貌，被服天子衣冠，刻印三：一曰 维祉冠存己夏处南山臧薄冰 ，二曰 肃圣宝继 ，三曰 德封昌图 。
translation: 
Wang Mang sent an envoy to pardon the thieves on the spot. The envoy came back and said: The thieves dispersed and often reunited again.
When asked about the reason, they all said that they were unable to take action because of the cumbersome and strict prohibitions.
The income from hard work is not enough to pay taxes.
If you keep the door closed and stay safe, you will be implicated by your neighbors who secretly mint money and hide copper, and the traitors will use it to blackmail the people.
The people had no choice but to turn into thieves.
Wang Mang was furious and removed them from their official positions.
Some of them followed his intention and said that the rebellious people were arrogant and cunning and should be punished. They also said that the fate of the people was like this and they would soon be eliminated. Wang Mang was happy and always promoted them.
In August of this year, Wang Mang personally went to the southern suburbs to create a powerful force.
Weidou was made of copper mixed with five-color stones. It was shaped like a Big Dipper and was two feet and five inches long. It was intended to be used to intimidate various peasant armies.
The mighty battle was forged, and Siming was asked to carry it. When Wang Mang went out, it was in front of him, and when Wang Mang entered the palace, he put it next to him.
On the day when Wei Dou was cast, the weather was extremely cold, and hundreds of officials and horses froze to death.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, a fire broke out at the south gate of the Northern Army camp.
The Grand Sima Sima Yun Fei Xing was appointed as the shepherd of Jingzhou. Wang Mang met him and asked him about his plans after taking office. Fei Xing replied: Most of the people in Jingzhou and Yangzhou rely on the mountains, forests and lakes, and use fishing and woodcutting as their occupations.
Some time ago, the country implemented the six-management system and levied taxes on mountains, forests, lakes and swamps, which harmed and deprived the people of their interests. Coupled with successive years of drought, the people were hungry and poor, so they became thieves.
After I arrived at my post, I wanted to order the thieves to return home, loan them farm tools, cattle, seeds, and grain, and reduce or exempt them from taxes, hoping to disband and appease them.
Wang Mang became angry and dismissed Fei Xing from his official position.
Officials all over the country sought illegal profits one after another because they could not get their salaries. The property of the county chiefs and governors accumulated thousands of gold.
Wang Mang wrote a letter to Shao saying: After a thorough investigation of the Huns' invasion of the Central Plains in the second year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, all military officers and border officials who have made illegal profits and increased their property and made a fortune will have four-fifths of their family property confiscated to support the urgent needs of border defense.
Government officials traveled all over the country in carriages, carefully examining corruption cases, mobilizing officers to report on their generals, and slaves to report on their masters. They hoped to use this method to suppress evil, but the evil became more and more serious.
The emperor's grandson Gong Chonggong Wang Zong drew a portrait of himself, wearing the emperor's clothes and the emperor's crown, and engraved three seals: the first is "Wei Zhi Guan, Cun Ji Xia, Nanshan, Hidden by Thin Ice", the second is "Su Sheng Bao Ji", and the third is "De Feng Chang Tu".

summary:
summary line 2: Wang Mang's envoys reported that thieves dispersed but regrouped due to harsh prohibitions, heavy taxes, and the inability of people to make a living. Wang Mang dismissed officials who reported these truths and promoted those who flattered him. In August, he forged a copper weapon shaped like the Big Dipper to intimidate peasant armies, but during its casting, extreme cold killed many officials and horses. Fires broke out at the Northern Army camp, and when newly appointed officials like Fei Xing suggested lenient policies to address the root causes of rebellion, Wang Mang dismissed them. Officials across the country sought illegal profits due to unpaid salaries, amassing fortunes.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
又宗舅吕宽家前徙合浦，私与宗通，发觉按验，宗自杀。
莽曰： 宗属为皇孙，爵为上公，知宽等叛逆族类，而与交通；刻铜印三，文意甚害，不知厌足，窥欲非望。
《春秋》之义， 君亲毋将，将而诛焉。
迷惑失道，自取此事，乌呼哀哉！
宗本名会宗，以制作去二名，今复名会宗。
贬厥爵，改厥号，赐谥为功崇缪伯，以诸伯之礼葬于故同谷城郡。
宗姊妨为卫将军王兴夫人，祝诅姑，杀婢以绝口。
事发觉，莽使中常侍惲责问妨，并以责兴，皆自杀。
事连及司命孔仁妻，亦自杀。
仁见莽免冠谢，莽使尚书劾仁： 乘 乾 车，驾 神 马，左苍龙，右白虎，前朱雀，后玄武，右杖威节，左负威斗，号曰赤星，非以骄仁，乃以尊新室之威命也。
仁擅免天文冠，大不敬。
有诏勿劾，更易新冠。
其好怪如此。
以真道侯王涉为卫将军。
涉者，曲阳侯根子也。
根，成帝世为大司马，荐莽自代，莽恩之，以为曲阳非令称，乃追谥根曰直道让公，涉嗣其爵。
是岁，赤眉力子都、樊崇等以饥馑相聚，起于琅邪，转抄掠，众皆万数。
遗使者发郡国兵击之，不能克。
六年春，莽见盗贼多，乃令太史推三万六千岁历纪，六岁一改元，布天下。
下书曰： 《紫阁图》曰 太一、黄帝皆仙上天，张乐昆仑虔山之上。
后世圣主得瑞者，当张乐秦终南山之上。
予之不敏，奉行未明，乃今谕矣。
复以宁始将军为更始将军，以顺符命。
《易》不云乎？ 日新之谓盛德，生生之谓易。
予其飨哉！
translation: 
In addition, Wang Zong's uncle Lu Kuan's family was exiled to Hepu County, and he secretly contacted Wang Zong. After being discovered, Wang Zong committed suicide after investigation and verification.
Wang Mang said: Wang Zong's kinship is that of the emperor's grandson, and his title is that of Grand Duke. He knew that Lu Kuan and others were rebels, so he tried to associate with them. He engraved three steel seals. The meaning of the seals is very sneaky, not satisfied, and coveting undue hope.
The principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that you should not have any evil thoughts towards the king and your parents, and if you have evil thoughts, you should punish them.
I was so confused that I deviated from the right path. I committed such a crime. How sad!
Wang Zong was originally named Wang Huizong. Because the system stipulated that double names should be abolished, the original name is now restored to Wang Huizong.
He devalued his title, changed his name, gave him the title of Gong Chong Miao Bo, and buried him in Gucheng County, his original feudal state, according to the etiquette of an earl.
Wang Zong's sister Wang Zhi was the wife of General Wang Xing. She prayed to ghosts and gods to bring disaster to her mother-in-law and killed her maid in order to silence her.
Finally, when the incident was discovered, Wang Mang asked the official Zhongchang to question Wang Zhi and blame Wang Xing for the incident. Both Wang Zhi and Wang Xing committed suicide.
The incident involved Si Ming Kong Ren's wife, who also committed suicide.
When Kong Ren saw Wang Mang, he took off his hat to plead guilty. Wang Mang asked the minister to impeach Kong Ren: He was sitting in a cart with astronomical images and a mare, with the green dragon symbol on the left, the white tiger symbol on the right, the bird symbol in the front, and the turtle symbol in the back. He held the Five Power Festival in his right hand and the Mighty Dou on his left shoulder. The title was called Red Star. These were not used to let Kong Ren do whatever he wanted, but to respect the majestic orders of the new dynasty.
Kong Ren took off the astronomical crown without authorization, which was a crime of disrespecting the emperor.
Wang Mang issued another edict instructing him not to impeach him, but to replace him with a new hat.
He's moody like this.
Appoint Zhidaohou Wangshe as the general of the guard.
Wang She is the son of Quyanghou Wanggen.
Wang Gen served as Chief Sima during the reign of Emperor Cheng and once recommended Wang Mang to succeed him. Wang Mang was grateful to him and thought that Quyang was not a good name, so he followed Wang Gen as Zhidao and let Wang She inherit his title.
This year, the Red Eyebrow Army Li Zidu, Fan Chong and others gathered together due to famine, and started an uprising in Langxie County. They looted everywhere, with a total of ten thousand troops.
Wang Mang sent envoys to mobilize local troops to attack them, but they could not win.
In the spring of the sixth year, Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves, so he asked Taishi to calculate the outline of the calendar for 36,000 years. He changed the year name every six years and announced it to the whole country.
The following report says: "Purple He Tu" says: Taiyi and Huangdi both became gods and ascended to heaven, playing fairy music on Qianshan Mountain in Kunlun Mountains.
The wise emperors whose descendants have gained auspiciousness should play fairy music on Zhongnan Mountain in Qin.
I wasn't smart enough to follow it consciously, and I didn't understand it until now.
Then General Ningshi was called General Gengshi. It means obeying the destiny.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say it? It is said that renewal is excellent moral character. In the process of movement and change, new things are constantly produced, which is called Yi.
I will enjoy this happiness!

summary:
summary line 3: Wang Mang's grandson Wang Zong was discovered drawing himself in imperial regalia and engraving seals with rebellious inscriptions. After investigation, Wang Zong committed suicide, and his sister Wang Zhi also died after being implicated in murder and witchcraft. The Red Eyebrow Army, led by Li Zidu and Fan Chong, began their uprising in Langxie County due to famine, gathering ten thousand troops. Wang Mang's attempts to suppress them failed. In the sixth year, Wang Mang calculated a 36,000-year calendar and changed the year name, claiming to follow divine instructions, but people laughed at these practices.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
欲以诳耀百姓，销解益贼。
众皆笑之。
初献《新乐》于明堂、太庙。
群臣始冠麟韦之弁。
或闻其乐声，曰： 清厉而哀，非兴国之声也。
是时，关东饥旱数年，力子都等党众浸多，更始将军廉丹击益州不能克，征还。
更遣复位后大司马护军郭兴、庸部牧李晔击蛮夷若豆等，太傅牺叔士孙喜清洁江湖之益贼。
而匈奴寇边甚。
莽乃大募天下丁男及死罪囚、吏民奴，名曰 猪突豨勇 ，以为锐卒。
一切税天下吏民，訾三十取一，缣帛皆输长安。
令公卿以下至郡县黄绶皆保养军马，多少各以秩为差。
又博募有奇技术可以攻匈奴者，将待以不次之位。
言便宜者以万数：或言能度水不用舟楫，连马接骑，济百万师；或言不持斗粮，服食药物，三军不饥；或言能飞，一日千里，可窥匈奴。
莽辄试之，取大鸟翮为两翼，头与身皆著毛，通引环纽，飞数百步堕。
莽知其不可用，苟欲获其名，皆拜为理军，赐以车马，待发。
初，匈奴右骨都侯须卜当，其妻王昭君女也，尝内附。
莽遣昭君兄子和亲侯王歙诱呼当至塞下，胁将诣长安，强立以为须卜善于后安公。
始欲诱迎当，大司马严尤谏曰： 当在匈奴右部，兵不侵边，单于动静，辄语中国，此方面之大助也。
于今迎当置长安槁街，一胡人耳，不如在匈奴有益。
莽不听。
即得当，欲遣尤与廉丹击匈奴，皆赐姓徵氏，号二徵将军，当诛单于舆而立当代之。
出车城西横厩，未发。
尤素有智略，非莽攻伐四夷，数谏不从，著古名将乐毅、白起不用之意及言边事凡三篇，奏以风谏莽。
及当出廷议，尤固言匈奴可且以为后，先忧山东盗贼。
莽大怒，乃策尤曰： 视事四年，蛮夷猾夏不能遏绝，寇贼奸宄不能殄灭，不畏天威，不用诏命，貌很自臧，持必不移，怀执异心，非沮军议。
未忍致于理，其上大司马武建伯印韨，归故郡。
以降符伯董忠为大司马。
翼平连率田况奏郡县訾民不实，莽复三十税一。
以况忠言忧国，进爵为伯，赐钱二百万。
translation: 
I want to use this method to dazzle the people and eliminate thieves.
Everyone laughed at these practices.
For the first time, he presented "Xin Yue" to Mingtang and Ancestral Temple.
Ministers began to wear buckskin hats.
Someone heard the melody of the music and said: It is sad, serious and low, not the music to revitalize the country.
At this time, the Kanto region suffered from drought and famine for several consecutive years, and the number of tribes such as Lizidu gradually increased. Gengshi general Lian Dan failed to win in Yizhou and was recalled.
After the restoration, he sent Guo Xing, the Great Sima Protector, and Li Bi, the Yongbu Mu Li Bi, to attack the tribal leader Ruodou and others, and sent Taifu Xishu Shi Sun Xi to pacify the thieves in various places.
At the same time, the Xiongnu invaded the border very severely.
Wang Mang then recruited a large number of strong men from all over the country, as well as condemned criminals and domestic slaves of officials and civilians. He named them Zhutu Xiyong and used them as elite soldiers.
All fees were collected from officials and civilians across the country, one-thirtieth of the estimated property was taken, and all silk and silk were transported to Chang'an.
Officials from the ministerial level to the county officials wearing yellow seals were ordered to maintain military horses. The number of horses was determined according to each person's salary.
He also extensively recruited specialized talents who had unique skills that could be used to attack the Xiongnu, and planned to hire them by upgrading their positions.
There are tens of thousands of people who suggest things that are beneficial to the country: some say that you can cross rivers without boats and connect people and horses, and you can cross an army of millions; some say that you don’t need to carry a bucket of grain, but just take medicine, and the army will not be hungry; some say that you can fly, flying a thousand miles a day, to spy on the Huns.
Wang Mang asked him to try it. The man made two wings from the feathers of a big bird, attached feathers to his head and body, and wrapped them with ring ties all over his body. After flying a few hundred steps, they fell off.
Wang Mang knew that they could not be used, so he insisted on gaining the reputation of cherishing talents, so he appointed them all as commanders, rewarded them with chariots and horses, and waited for their departure.
At the beginning, the right bone of the Xiongnu was Hou Xudang, and his wife was the daughter of Wang Zhaojun, who had returned to the Central Plains.
Wang Mang sent Wang Zhaojun's nephew and prince Wang She to lure Xu Budang to the border, coerced him to come to Chang'an, and forced him to be the Duke of Xu Bushan Hou'an.
At first Wang Mang wanted to seduce Xubutang, but Grand Sima Yanyou advised: Xubutang is on the right side of the Xiongnu. His army has never invaded the border and always tells the Central Plains news about Chanyu. This is a huge help.
Now we welcome Subudang to Chang'an East Street. He is just a Huns. It is better to let him stay with the Huns.
Wang Mang didn't listen.
Xu Bu Dang has been brought here, and he wants to send Yan You and Lian Dan to attack the Xiongnu. They are both given the surname Zheng and are called the Second Zheng General. They want to kill Shan Yu Yu and set up Xu Dang to replace him.
They sent troops to West Malan of Chang'an City but did not set off.
Yan You, who had always been resourceful and talented, opposed Wang Mang's attack on foreigners in the West. Wang Mang did not listen to his repeated advice, so he wrote three articles about the historical lessons of the distrust of ancient famous generals Le Yi and Bai Qi, and about border defense matters, and submitted them to Wang Mang in a tactful and tortuous way.
When the court meeting was held, Yan You firmly stated that the Xiongnu could put their power aside and worry about the thieves in Shandong first.
Wang Mang was furious and wrote a policy letter to Yan You, saying: You have been in office for four years. The foreign tribes that disturbed the Central Plains cannot be suppressed. The thieves and evil spirits cannot be eradicated. You are not afraid of the majesty of heaven and do not obey the emperor's orders. You are vicious in appearance and think you are kind in vain. You are stubborn and unchangeable. You have second thoughts and destroy military plans.
I can't bear to hand it over to the judicial department. I should hand over the seal of Grand Sima Wu Jianbo and return to my hometown.
Dong Zhong, the descendant of Fu Bo, was appointed as the Grand Sima.
The Yiping County Company led the field report to the county. The county's estimate of the people's property was untrue, and Wang Mang levied it at one-thirtieth.
Thinking that Tian Kuang was loyal and caring about the country, he promoted his title to earl and rewarded him with two million yuan.

summary:
summary line 4: The Kanto region suffered from drought and famine for consecutive years, causing rebel numbers to grow. Wang Mang recruited strong men, condemned criminals, and slaves to form elite troops, collecting one-thirtieth of property from officials and civilians to fund military campaigns. He also recruited specialists with unique skills to attack the Xiongnu, including a man who claimed to be able to fly but only managed a few hundred steps before falling. Wang Mang appointed them all as commanders despite knowing their claims were false.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
众庶皆詈之。
青、徐民多弃乡里流亡，老弱死道路，壮者入贼中。
夙夜连率韩博上言： 有奇士，长丈，大十围，来至臣府，曰欲奋击胡虏。
自谓巨毋霸，出于蓬莱东南，五城西北昭如海濒，轺车不能载，三马不能胜。
即日以大车四马，建虎旗，载霸诣阙。
霸卧则枕鼓，以铁箸食，此皇天所以辅新室也。
愿陛下作大甲高车，贲、育之衣，遣大将一人与虎贲百人迎之于道。
京师门户不容者，开高大之，以视百蛮，镇安天下。
博意欲以风莽。
莽闻恶之，留霸在所新丰，更其姓曰巨母氏，谓因文母太后而霸王符也。
征博下狱，以非所宜言，弃市。
明年改元曰：地皇 ，从三万六千岁历号也。
地皇元年正月乙未，赦天下。
下书曰： 方出军行师，敢有趋讠襄犯法者，辄论斩，毋须时，尽岁止。
于是春夏斩人都市，百姓震惧，道路以目。
二月壬申，日正黑。
莽恶之，下书曰： 乃者日中见昧，阴薄阳，黑气为变，百姓莫不惊怪。
兆域大将军王匡遣吏考问上变事者，欲蔽上之明，是以適见于天，以正于理，塞大异焉。
莽见四方盗贼多，复欲厌之，又下书曰： 予之皇初祖考黄帝定天下，将兵为上将军，建华盖，立斗献，内设大将，外置大司马五人，大将军二十五人，偏将军百二十五人，裨将军千二百五十人，校尉万二千五百人，司马三万七千五百人，候十一万二千五百人，当百二十二万五千人，士吏四十五万人，士千三百五十万人，应协于《易》 孤矢之利，以威天下 。
予受符命之文，稽前人，将条备焉。
translation: 
The general public cursed him.
Many people in Qingzhou and Xuzhou abandoned their homes and fled. The old and weak died on the road, while the strong joined the ranks of thieves.
Suye Junlian led Han Bo to report: A strange man, ten feet tall and ten feet tall, came to my palace and said he wanted to fight against the Xiongnu.
He said his name was Juwuba, and he grew up in Zhaoru, southeast of Penglai and northwest of Wucheng. He could not fit in a light vehicle and could not be dragged by three horses.
Immediately, he hitched four horses to a large cart, set up a tiger flag, and loaded up the giant horse to come to the capital.
Juwuba sleeps with his head resting on a pillow and eats with iron chopsticks. This is God asking him to assist the new dynasty.
I hope you will build a large armored chariot, a suit of clothes worn by Meng Ben and Xia Yu, and send a general and a hundred warriors to meet him on the road.
If the gates of the capital cannot accommodate him, open them higher and wider, and show him to the foreign tribes, so that he can intimidate and stabilize the world.
Han Bo wanted to use it to ridicule Wang Mang.
Wang Mang heard this and resented Han Bo. He asked Ju Guuba to stay in Xinfeng County where he was located, and changed his surname to Ju Mu, which meant that thanks to the birth of this person, Queen Mother Wen, this was the destiny that made him the overlord.
Put Han Bo in jail, thinking that those words were not what he should say, and put him to death.
In the second year, the year name was changed to Emperor of the Earth, which was based on the outline of the 36,000-year calendar.
On the last day of the first lunar month of the first year of the Earth Emperor's reign, a nationwide amnesty was announced.
The following report said: When the troops are marching, anyone who dares to run around and make noise and violate the law will be beheaded. Do not wait until the execution season. This order will be implemented until the end of the year.
So in the spring and summer, people were killed in the city, and the people were terrified. When they met on the road, they only looked at each other and did not dare to talk.
On Renshen Day in February, the sky was dark when the sun was at its peak.
Wang Mang hated this phenomenon and reported below: Some time ago, there was darkness, the Yin energy invaded the Yang energy, and the black energy caused disasters. The people were all surprised.
Wang Kuang, the general of Zhaoyu, sent his subordinates to pursue the person who reported the abnormal accident in order to cover up the emperor's ears and eyes. Therefore, he was condemned from heaven and should be punished by law to remedy such a catastrophe.
Wang Mang saw that there were many thieves from all directions, and wanted to deter them again, so he sent a message: My great emperor Huangdi brought peace to the world. He led his army as a general, erected gorgeous chariot covers, and set up Beidou-shaped ritual vessels. He set up generals in the base camp, and set up five generals outside the camp, twenty-five generals, and one hundred and twenty-five partial generals. , there are 1,250 generals, 12,500 lieutenants, 37,500 commanders, 112,500 military commanders, 225,000 chiefs, 450,000 palace officials, and 13.5 million soldiers, which is consistent with what the "Book of Changes" says Bows and arrows are sharp, used to intimidate the world.
I accepted the words of the talisman, followed the ancients, and planned to gradually set it up.

summary:
summary line 5: Wang Mang's policies led to widespread suffering. People abandoned their homes, the old and weak died on roadsides, and the strong joined thieves. Officials like Han Bo tried to ridicule Wang Mang with absurd reports, but Wang Mang executed them. He changed the year name to Emperor of the Earth and issued harsh decrees allowing executions even in spring and summer, terrifying the people. When natural disasters occurred, Wang Mang blamed his officials rather than his own policies.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
莽扬州牧李圣、司命孔仁兵败山东，圣格死，仁将其众降，已而叹曰： 吾闻食人食者死其事。
拔剑自刺死。
及曹部监杜普、陈定大尹沈意、九江连率贾萌皆守郡不降，为汉兵所诛。
赏都大尹王钦及郭钦守京师仓，闻莽死，乃降，更始义之，皆封为侯。
太师王匡、国将哀章降雒阳，传诣宛，斩之。
严尤、陈茂败昆阳下，走至沛郡谯，自称汉将，召会吏邱。
尤为称说王莽篡位天时所亡、圣汉复兴状，茂伏而涕泣。
闻故汉钟武侯刘圣聚众汝南称尊号，尤、茂降之。
以尤为大司马，茂为丞相。
十余日败，尤、茂并死。
郡县皆举城降，天下悉归汉。
初，申屠建尝事崔发为《诗》，建至，发降之。
后复称说，建令丞相刘赐斩发以徇。
史谌、王延、王林、王吴、赵闳亦降，复见杀。
初，诸假号兵人人望封侯。
申屠建既斩王宪，又扬言三辅黠共杀其主，吏民惶恐，属县屯聚，建等不能下，驰白更始。
二年二月，更始到长安，下诏大赦，非王莽子，他皆除其罪，故王氏宗族得全。
三辅悉平，更始都长安，居长乐宫。
府藏完具，独未央宫烧攻莽三日，死则案堵复故。
更始至，岁余政教不行。
明年夏，赤眉樊崇等众数十万人入关，立刘盆子，称尊号，攻更始，更始降之。
赤眉遂烧长安宫室市里，害更始。
民饥饿相食，死者数十万，长安为虚，城中无人行。
宗庙园陵皆发掘，唯霸陵、杜陵完。
translation: 
Wang Mang's Yangzhou shepherd Li Sheng and his commander Kong Ren were defeated in the Shandong area. Li Sheng died in a fight, and Kong Ren led his troops to surrender. Then he sighed and said: I heard that if you enjoy someone's salary, you have to die for his cause.
Then he drew his sword and committed suicide.
Du Pu, the eunuch of Cao's Ministry, Shen Yi, the great Yin of Chending County, and Jia Meng, the leader of Jiujiang County Company, all defended the county and refused to surrender, so they were killed by the Han army.
Wang Qin and Guo Qin, the great Yins of Shangdu County, were guarding the capital warehouse. When they heard that Wang Mang was dead, they surrendered. Emperor Gengshi believed that they had upheld integrity and granted them the title of marquis.
Taishi Wang Kuang and General Aizhang surrendered in Luoyang and were sent to Wancheng to kill them.
After Yan You and Chen Mao were beaten at the foot of Kunyang City, they fled to Qiao County, Pei County. They claimed to be generals of the Desert Army and called a gathering of local officials and civilians.
Yan You preached to them about Wang Mang's theft of the throne, God's will to destroy him, and the revival of the wise Han Dynasty. Chen Mao fell to the ground and cried.
Hearing that Liu Sheng, the former Zhongwu Marquis of the Han Dynasty, gathered his troops in Runan County and claimed to be emperor, Yan You and Chen Mao surrendered to him.
Liu Sheng appointed Yan You as Grand Sima and Chen Mao as Prime Minister.
They failed for more than ten days, and both Yan You and Chen Mao died.
All counties and counties surrendered, and the whole country returned to the rule of the Han Dynasty.
Earlier, Shentu Jian had followed Cui Fa to study the Book of Songs. When Shentu Jian came to Chang'an, Cui Fa surrendered to him.
Later, he promoted Wang Mang's replacement of the Han Dynasty, and Shentu Jian asked Prime Minister Liu Ci to kill Cui Fa to show the public.
Shi Chen, Wang Yan, Wang Lin, Wang Wu and Zhao Hong also surrendered and were killed.
At first, everyone in the troops who established their own names wanted to be granted the title of marquis.
Shen Tujian had not only killed Wang Xian, but also threatened that the people in the Sanfu area were cunning and killed his monarch together. Therefore, the officials and civilians in the Sanfu area became frightened, and the counties under their jurisdiction gathered troops to separate themselves. Shen Tujian and others failed to capture it, so they sent flying horses to report to Gengshi Emperor.
In February of the second year of Gengshi, Emperor Gengshi came to Chang'an and issued an edict announcing a general amnesty. As long as they were not Wang Mang's children, everyone else would be pardoned for their crimes, so the Wang family could be preserved.
All the Sanfu areas were pacified, and Emperor Gengshi made his capital Chang'an and lived in Changle Palace.
The treasury was intact, except for the Weiyang palace fire that attacked Wang Mang for three days. Once Wang Mang died, he settled down and returned to his original state.
After the arrival of Emperor Gengshi, it took more than a year for the political education to be implemented throughout the country.
In the summer of the next year, hundreds of thousands of people from the Red Eyebrow Army, Fan Chong and others entered Hangu Pass, supported Liu Penzi as emperor, and attacked Emperor Gengshi, who surrendered to them.
The Red Eyebrow Army burned the palaces and streets of Chang'an and killed Emperor Gengshi.
The people were starving to the point of cannibalism, and hundreds of thousands of people died. The city of Chang'an was in ruins, and no one walked in the city.
All the ancestral temples and tombs of the ancestors of the Han Dynasty have been excavated, but only Du Ling and Ba Ling are still intact.

summary:
summary line 6: The rebellion continued to spread, with various leaders emerging across the country. Wang Mang's attempts to suppress them through military force and harsh laws only worsened the situation. His officials grew increasingly fearful, and the people's suffering intensified. The Han dynasty eventually revived under Emperor Gengshi, who captured Chang'an and executed Wang Mang's supporters. The Red Eyebrow Army later overthrew Emperor Gengshi, causing further destruction, until Emperor Shizu restored order and peace to the realm.

