Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 15, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
爰盎字丝。
其父楚人也，故为群盗，徙安陵。
高后时，盎为吕禄舍人。
孝文即位，盎兄哙任盎为郎中。
绛侯为丞相，朝罢趋出，意得甚。
上礼之恭，常目送之。
盎进曰： 丞相何如人也？
上曰： 社稷臣。
盎曰： 绛侯所谓功臣，非社稷臣。
社稷臣主在与在，主亡与亡。
方吕后时，诸吕用事，擅相王，刘氏不绝如带。
是时绛侯为太尉，本兵柄，弗能正。
吕后崩，大臣相与共诛诸吕，太尉主兵，适会其成功，所谓功臣，非社稷臣。
丞相如有骄主色，陛下谦让，臣主失礼，窃为陛下弗取也。
后朝，上益庄，丞相益畏。
已而绛侯望盎曰： 吾与汝兄善，今儿乃毁我！
盎遂不谢。
及绛侯就国，人上书告以为反，征系请室，诸公莫敢为言，唯盎明绛侯无罪。
绛侯得释，盎颇有力。
绛侯乃大与盎结交。
淮南厉王朝，杀辟阳侯，居处骄甚。
盎谏曰： 诸侯太骄必生患，可適削地。
上弗许。
淮南王益横。
谋反发觉，上征淮南王，迁之蜀，槛车传送。
盎时为中郎将，谏曰： 陛下素骄之，弗稍禁，以至此，今又暴摧折之。
淮南王为人刚，有如遇霜露行道死，陛下竟为以天下大弗能容，有杀弟名，奈何？
上不听，遂行之。
淮南王至雍，病死。闻，上辍食，哭甚哀。
盎入，顿首请罪。
上曰： 以不用公言至此。
盎曰： 上自宽，此往事，岂可悔哉！
且陛下有高世行三，此不足以毁名。
translation: 
Yuan Ang, Zisi.
His father was a native of Chu. He once worked as a thief and later moved to Anling.
During the period of Empress Lu, Yuan Ang once served as Lu Lu's retainer.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, Yuan An's brother Yuan Sha recommended Yuan An to be a doctor.
Jianghou Zhou Bo became the prime minister. After retiring from the court, he walked out quickly, feeling very contented.
The emperor treated him with great courtesy and often saw him off with his eyes.
Yuan Ang stepped forward and said, "What kind of person is the Prime Minister?"
The emperor said: An important minister of the country.
Yuan An said: Jianghou is what is usually called a hero, not an important minister of the country.
The important ministers of the country are the master and the minister, and the master will die and the minister will perish.
During the period of Empress Lu, Zhu Lu was in power and granted the title of king without authorization. Although the Liu family's world was not cut off, it was as weak and weak as a belt.
At that time, Jianghou was serving as the Taiwei and had military power, so he could not help or save him.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers worked together to punish Lu. The Taiwei controlled the army, which happened to make him successful. He was a hero in general, not an important official of the country.
If the prime minister shows pride towards his lord, and your majesty humbly gives in, it would be a violation of etiquette for both the minister and the lord. I think your majesty should not adopt this attitude.
After the court meeting, the emperor gradually became more solemn and the prime minister became more and more fearful.
Afterwards, Jianghou scolded Yuan Ang and said: I am close to your brother, but now you are slandering me in the court!
Yuan An never admitted his mistake.
When Jianghou was dismissed as prime minister and returned to the feudal state, someone in the feudal state wrote a letter accusing him of treason. Jianghou was arrested, tied up and imprisoned. The royal family and other ministers did not dare to speak for him. Only Yuan An defended Jianghou's innocence.
Jianghou was able to be released, and Yuan An made great efforts.
Jianghou then became close friends with Yuan Ang.
Liu Chang, the king of Huainan, went to the capital to see him and killed Piyanghou. He behaved very arrogantly.
Yuan An advised the emperor: If the princes are too arrogant, chaos will inevitably occur, and their fiefdoms can be appropriately reduced.
The emperor did not adopt his opinion.
The king of Huainan became even more arrogant.
The plot to rebel was discovered, and King Huainan was summoned. The emperor exiled him to Shu County and escorted him in a prison car.
Yuan An was serving as Zhonglang General at that time, so he remonstrated and said: You have always been arrogant and indulgent to the King of Huainan without imposing any restrictions, even to this extent. Now it suddenly destroyed him.
The King of Huainan is a staunch man. If you die from the cold on the road, you will eventually be considered as the incompatible people in the world and will have the reputation of killing your brother. What should you do?
Zaoshang didn't listen and did it anyway.
The king of Huainan arrived in Yong County and died of illness. The news came that the emperor could not eat and cried very sadly.
Yuan An entered and kowtowed to apologize.
The emperor said: This situation occurred because your opinions were not adopted.
Yuan An said: If the emperor wants to think about it himself, this matter has already passed, how can he regret it?
Besides, you have three outstanding behaviors, which are not enough to ruin your reputation.

summary:
summary line 0: Yuan Ang, also known as Zisi, was a native of Chu who later moved to Anling. He served as a retainer to Lü Lu during Empress Lü's reign and was recommended as a doctor by his brother Yuan Sha under Emperor Wen of Han. Yuan Ang famously criticized Prime Minister Zhou Bo, calling him a "hero" rather than an "important minister," arguing that Zhou Bo had failed to act against the Lü clan during their usurpation and only succeeded after Empress Lü's death. Despite Zhou Bo's initial anger, Yuan Ang later defended him when Zhou Bo was falsely accused of treason, leading to their friendship.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
上曰： 吾高世三者何事？
盎曰： 陛下居代时，太后尝病，三年，陛下不交睫解衣，汤药非陛下口所尝弗进。
夫曾参以布衣犹难之，今陛下亲以王者修之，过曾参远矣。
诸吕用事，大臣颛制，然陛下从代乘六乘传，驰不测渊，虽贲、育之勇不及陛下。
陛下至代邸，西乡让天子者三，南乡让天子者再。
夫许由一让，陛下五以天下让，过许由四矣。
且陛下迁淮南王，欲以苦其志，使改过，有司宿卫不谨，故病死。
于是上乃解，盎繇此名重朝廷。
盎常引大体慷慨。
宦者赵谈以数幸，常害盎，盎患之。
盎兄子种为常侍骑，谏盎曰： 君众辱之，后虽恶君，上不复信。
于是上朝东宫，赵谈骖乘，盎伏车前曰： 臣闻天子所与共六尺舆者，皆天下豪英。今汉虽乏人，陛下独奈何与刀锯之余共载！
于是上笑，下赵谈。
谈泣下车。
上从霸陵上，欲西驰下峻阪，盎揽辔。
上曰： 将军怯邪？
盎言曰： 臣闻千金之子不垂堂，百金之子不骑衡，圣主不乘危，不侥幸。
今陛下聘六飞，驰不测山，有如马惊车败，陛下纵自轻，奈高庙、太后何？
上乃止。
上幸上林，皇后、慎夫人从。
其在禁中，常同坐。
及坐，郎署长布席，盎引却慎夫人坐。
慎夫人怒，不肯坐。
上亦起，起。
盎因前说曰： 臣闻尊卑有序则上下和，今陛下既以立后，慎夫人乃妾，妾、主岂可以同坐哉！
且陛下幸之，则厚赐之。
陛下所以为慎夫人，适所以祸之也。
translation: 
The emperor said: What are the three things that make me superior to others?
Yuan Ang said: When you were in the Kingdom of Dai, the Queen Mother was ill. For three years, you never closed your eyes, went to bed without undressing, and refused to give the medicine to the Queen Mother unless you tasted it yourself.
As a commoner, it was difficult for Zeng Shen to do this, but now as a king, you have implemented it, and you are far ahead of Zeng Shen in terms of filial piety.
Zhu Lu is in power, and the powerful ministers do their own thing. However, you took six post cars from Dai State to the capital city where misfortune and fortune are unpredictable. Even warriors like Meng Ben and Xia Yu cannot compare with you.
When you arrive at the official residence of the King of Dai, you sit to the west to abdicate the throne of emperor three times, and to the south to abdicate the throne of emperor twice.
Xu You surrendered only once, but you surrendered the world five times, more than Xu You surrendered four times.
Besides, you exiled the King of Huainan because you wanted to put some hard work on his mind and make him correct his mistakes. Because the officials were careless in protecting him, he died of illness.
The emperor was relieved at this time, and Yuan An became famous in the court.
Yuan Ang often talks about great principles and is impassioned.
Because the eunuch Tangtan had been favored by the emperor many times, he often secretly harmed Yuan An, which made Yuan An feel worried.
Yuan An's nephew Yuan Zhong served as an attendant knight, guarding the emperor with talismans. Yuan Zhong advised Yuan Ang: "You have humiliated him in the court. If you say bad things about you in the future, the emperor will not believe him."
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty went out, Zhao Tan accompanied him in the carriage. Yuan Ang bowed in front of the carriage and said: I heard that those who accompanied the emperor in the six-foot-tall carriage were all domestic heroes. Even if the Han Dynasty lacks talents, why do you only ride in the same carriage with people with broken bodies?
The emperor then laughed and asked Zhao Tan to get out of the car.
Zhao Tan got out of the car crying.
Emperor Wenwen of the Han Dynasty went up the mountain from Baling and wanted to gallop down the hillside from the west.
Yuan Ang took the reins of Emperor Wen's horse. The emperor said: General, are you timid?
Yuan Ang said: I have heard that people with a rich family do not sit close to the eaves, and people with a rich family do not sit on the railings beside the balcony. The wise master does not take risks and does not succeed by chance.
Now you want to indulge the six horses in the chariot and gallop down the mountain. If the horses are frightened and the chariot is destroyed, even if you underestimate yourself, how can you be worthy of Gaozu and the Queen Mother?
The emperor then stopped.
The emperor arrived at Shanglin Garden, accompanied by the queen and Mrs. Shen.
They often sit on the same level of seats in the palace.
When they were seated, Chief Lang arranged the seats, and Yuan Ang pulled Mrs. Shen's seat back a little.
Mrs. Shen was angry and refused to sit down.
The emperor was also angry and got up.
Yuan An took the opportunity to step forward and persuade: I heard that if there is an order of superiority and inferiority, then there will be harmony between the superiors and inferiors. Now that His Majesty has confirmed the Queen, Mrs. Shen is just a concubine. How can the concubine and the Lord sit at the same table?
Besides, if you dote on her, reward her even more.
The method His Majesty used to pamper Mrs. Shen turned out to be a disaster.

summary:
summary line 1: Yuan Ang advised Emperor Wen against indulging Liu Chang, the King of Huainan, whose arrogance led to rebellion. When the king died in exile, Yuan Ang consoled the grieving emperor by listing his three great virtues: filial piety during his mother's illness, courage in facing danger when coming to the capital, and humility in repeatedly declining the throne. Yuan Ang also clashed with the eunuch Zhao Tan, insisting he should not ride in the emperor's carriage, and prevented the emperor from reckless chariot racing. He corrected the seating order between the queen and Consort Shen, warning against favoritism by citing the tragic fate of "human pigs."

Chunk 2: 
original: 
独不见 人豕 乎？
于是上乃说，入语慎夫人。
慎夫人赐盎金五十斤。
然盎亦以数直谏，不得久居中。
调为陇西都尉，仁爱士卒，士卒皆争为死。
迁齐相，徒为吴相。
辞行，种谓盎曰： 吴王骄日久，国多奸，今丝欲刻治，彼不上书告君，则利剑刺君矣。
南方卑湿，丝能日饮，亡何，说王毋反而已。
如此幸得脱。
盎用种之计，吴王厚遇盎。
盎告归，道逢丞相申屠嘉，下车拜谒，丞相从车上谢。
盎还，愧其吏，乃之丞相舍上谒，求见丞相。
丞相良久乃见。
因跪曰： 愿请间。
丞相曰： 使君所言公事，之曹与长史掾议之，吾且奏之；则私，吾不受私语。
盎即起说曰： 君为相，自度孰与陈平、绛侯？
丞相曰： 不如。
盎曰： 善，君自谓弗如。
夫陈平、绛侯辅翼高帝，定天下，为将相，而诛诸吕，存刘氏；君乃为材官蹶张，迁为队帅，积功至淮阳守，非有奇计攻城野战之功。
且陛下从代来，每朝，郎官者上书疏，未尝不止辇受。其言不可用，置之；言可采，未尝不称善。
何也？
欲以致天下贤英士大夫，日闻所不闻，以益圣。而君自闭箝天下之口，而日益愚。
夫以圣主责愚相，君受祸不久矣。
丞相乃再拜曰： 嘉鄙人，乃不知，将军幸教。
引与入坐，为上客。
盎素不好晁错，错所居坐，盎辄避；盎所居坐，错亦避：两人未尝同堂语。
及孝景即位，晁错为御史大夫，使吏案盎受吴王财物，抵罪，诏赦以为庶人。
translation: 
Hasn't your majesty heard about human pigs?
The emperor was happy and went inside to tell Mrs. Shen what Yuan An had said.
Mrs. Shen gave Yuan Ang fifty catties of gold.
However, Yuan An could not stay in the court for a long time because of his many blunt admonitions.
He was transferred to the captaincy of Longxi. He loved the soldiers, and the soldiers rushed to do their best for him.
He was promoted to prime minister of Qi and then prime minister of Wu.
When saying goodbye and setting off, Yuan Zhong said to Yuan An: King Wu has been arrogant for a long time, and there are many traitors in the country. If you want to expose and punish him now, those people will either write a letter to accuse you, or they will kill you with a sharp sword.
The land in the south is low and humid. You drink wine every day and do nothing more than persuade the King of Wu not to rebel.
If you can do this, you may be able to get away from trouble.
Yuan Ang adopted Yuan Zhong's strategy, and the King of Wu treated him favorably.
Yuan Ang took leave and went home. He met Prime Minister Shen Tujia on the road and got out of the car to worship him. The prime minister only expressed his gratitude to Yuan Ang from the car.
When Yuan An returned home, he felt ashamed in front of his subordinates, so he went to the Prime Minister's residence to send a name card and asked to see the Prime Minister.
It took a long time for Cheng to meet Yuan Ang.
Yuan Ang knelt down and said, "I hope to receive you alone."
The prime minister said: If what you are talking about is a public matter, go to the official office to discuss it with the official, and I will report your opinions. If it is a private matter, I will not accept private requests.
Yuan Ang knelt down and persuaded him: "As the prime minister, you can weigh it yourself. How do you compare to Chen Ping and Jianghou?"
The prime minister said: I can't compare.
Yuan Ang said: Yes, you think you can't compare.
Chen Ping and Jianghou assisted Emperor Gao to pacify the world, served as generals, eradicated the Lu, and preserved the Liu family. You are just a warrior with a strong bow. You were promoted to captain and accumulated merits to become the governor of Huaiyang. You have no military exploits for attacking cities and seizing territory with unexpected plans.
Moreover, when the emperor came to Beijing from Daiguo, every time he met with the ministers and officials, he would not stop to accept their opinions and put them aside. If the opinions were acceptable, he would adopt them. There was never a time when he would not approve them.
What's the reason?
I just want to use this method to attract the world's most capable scholars and officials. The emperor hears things he has never heard before, understands things he has never understood before, and becomes wiser day by day. Now you have closed the mouths of the people in the world and are becoming stupid day by day.
As a wise monarch, you come to rebuke the foolish prime minister. Your son who will suffer disaster is not far away.
The prime minister then bowed twice to Yuan Ang. Said: I am a vulgar and vulgar person, but I am not smart. Fortunately, the general taught me.
Invite Yuan An into the inner room and sit together as the most distinguished guest.
Yuan Ang has never liked Chao Cuo. Where Chao Cuo stayed, Yuan An left; when Yuan An was there, Chao Cuo also left. The two have never spoken together.
When Emperor Mojing came to the throne and Chao Cuo became the imperial censor, he sent officials to investigate Yuan An's acceptance of the property of King Wu and punished him. The emperor issued an edict to exempt him from punishment and demote him to a commoner.

summary:
summary line 2: Yuan Ang served as governor of Longxi, prime minister of Qi, and later of Wu, following his nephew Yuan Zhong's advice to avoid conflict with the rebellious King of Wu by drinking daily and not interfering. He later confronted Prime Minister Shen Tujia, criticizing him for being less capable than Chen Ping and Zhou Bo and for stifling open discourse. Shen Tujia eventually apologized and treated him as a guest.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
吴、楚反闻，错谓丞史曰： 爰盎多受吴王金钱，专为蔽匿，言不反。
今果反，欲请治盎，宜知其计谋。
丞史曰： 事未发，治之有绝。
今兵西向，治之何益！
且盎不宜有谋。
错犹与未决。
人有告盎，盎恐，夜见窦婴，为言吴所以反，愿至前，口对状。
婴入言，上乃召盎。盎入见，竟言吴所以反，独急斩错以谢吴，吴可罢。
上拜盎为泰常，窦婴为大将军。
两人素相善。是时，诸陵长安中贤大夫争附两人。车骑随者日数百乘。
及晁错已诛，盎以泰常使吴。
吴王欲使将，不肯。
欲杀之，使一都尉以五百人围守盎军中。
初，盎为吴相时，从史盗私盎侍儿。盎知之，弗泄，遇之如故。
人有告从史， 君知女与侍者通 ，乃亡去。
盎驱自追之，遂以侍者赐之，复为从史。
司马夜引盎起，曰： 君可以去矣，吴王期旦日斩君。 盎弗信，曰： 何为者？
司马曰： 臣故为君从史盗侍儿者也。
盎乃惊，谢曰： 公幸有亲，吾不足累公。
司马曰： 君疵去，臣亦且亡，辟吾亲，君何患！
乃以刀决帐，道从醉卒直出。
司马与分背。盎解节旄怀之，屐步行七十里，明，见梁骑，驰去，遂归报。
吴、楚已破，上更以元王子平陆侯礼为楚王，以盎为楚相。
尝上书，不用。
盎病免家居，与闾里浮湛，相随行斗鸡走狗。
雒阳剧孟尝过盎，盎善待之。
translation: 
When news of Wu and Chu's rebellion came, Chao Cuo said to the Prime Minister: Yuan Ang accepted a lot of money from the King of Wu and specifically covered it up for him, saying that he would not rebel.
Now that he has really rebelled, if he wants to ask Yuan An to be punished, he must know about the rebellion plot.
The Prime Minister said: The matter has not been exposed. Punishing him may interrupt the rebellion conspiracy.
Now that the rebels are marching westward, what is the benefit of punishing him!
Besides, Yuan Ang shouldn't have any conspiracy.
Chao Cuo hesitated.
Someone told Yuan An what had happened. Yuan An was frightened and met Dou Ying at night. He explained to him the reasons for King Wu's rebellion and was willing to confront him personally in front of the emperor.
Dou Ying went to the palace to report to the emperor, and the emperor asked Yuan Ang to go to the palace to meet him. When he came to the meeting, he explained the situation of King Wu's rebellion. It was because of Chao Cuo. Only by killing Chao Cuo quickly and confessing his mistake to the king of Wu could the Wu army stop.
The emperor appointed Yuan Ang as Taichang and Baoying as general.
The two men had always been friendly, but when the king of Wu rebelled, the leading figures in the tombs near the capital and the wise officials in Chang'an City all scrambled to attach themselves to these two men, with hundreds of cars following them every day.
After Chao Cuo had been executed, Yuan Ang went to Yu Li as Taichang.
King Cheng wanted Sai'an to be a general, but Tomb Sai was unwilling.
The King of Wu wanted to kill him, so he sent a captain and five hundred soldiers to surround Yuan Ang in the army.
When Yuan An was the prime minister of the state of Wu, a Cong Shi had an affair with Yuan An's maid. Yuan An knew about this but did not reveal it, and treated Cong Shi as before.
Someone told Cong Shi that the prime minister knew that you were having an affair with your maid, so Cong Shi fled back.
Yuan Ang personally drove his car to chase Cong Shi, and finally gave him his maidservant, and still let him serve as Cong Shi.
When Yuan An went on his mission to Wu and was besieged, Cong Shi happened to be the captain who besieged Yuan An, so he exchanged all his luggage for two stones of strong wine, and the weather was cold. The soldiers were hungry and thirsty, and the soldiers besieging the southwest corner were all drunk. Sima took Yuan Ang to his feet at night and said, "You can go." King Wu expects to kill you tomorrow. Yuan An didn't believe it and said: What do you do?
Sima said: I was originally a maidservant who had an affair with Shi.
Yuan Ang then thanked him in horror and said: "You are lucky to have parents. I can't harm you."
Sima said: Just leave, I am about to run away and hide my parents, what are you worried about!
So he used a knife to open the tent of the military camp and led Yuan Ang straight out from the road guarded by the drunken soldiers.
Sima and Yuan An went their separate ways. Yuan An untied his knot and carried it in his arms. They walked for seventy miles. At dawn, they encountered Liang's cavalry. They galloped away on horseback and finally reported back to the court.
The Wu and Chu rebels had been defeated, and the emperor changed the title of Pingluhou Liu Li, son of King Chu Yuan, to King of Chu, and Yuan An became Prime Minister of Chu.
He once wrote a letter to speak out, but it was not adopted.
Yuan Ang resigned from his job and went home to live leisurely due to illness. He followed the local customs and participated in cockfights and dog racing with the villagers.
Ju Meng, a native of Luoyang, once visited Yuan An, who entertained him warmly.

summary:
summary line 3: Yuan Ang had a long-standing feud with Chao Cuo. When the Rebellion of the Seven States broke out, Yuan Ang advised Emperor Jing to execute Chao Cuo to appease the rebels. After Chao Cuo's death, Yuan Ang was sent as an envoy to Wu but was surrounded by Wu forces. A former subordinate, whom Yuan Ang had once forgiven for an affair with his maid, helped him escape. Yuan Ang later became Prime Minister of Chu but resigned due to illness. He was assassinated by agents of the King of Liang after opposing the king's succession to the throne.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
安陵富人有谓盎曰： 吾闻剧孟博徒，将军何自通之？
盎曰： 剧孟虽博徒，然母死，客送丧车千余乘，此亦有过人者。
且缓急人所有。
夫一旦叩门，不以亲为解，不以在亡为辞，天下所望者，独季心、剧孟。
今公阳从数骑，一旦有缓急，宁足恃乎！
遂骂富人，弗与通。
诸公闻之，皆多盎。
盎虽居家，景帝时时使人问筹策。
梁王欲求为嗣，盎进说，其后语塞。
梁王以此怨盎，使人刺盎。
刺者至关中，问盎，称之皆不容口。
乃见盎曰： 臣受梁王金刺君，君长者，不忍刺君。
然后刺者十余曹，备之！
盎心不乐，家多怪，乃之棓生所问占。
还，梁刺客后曹果遮刺杀盎安陵郭门外。
晁错，颍川人也。
学申、商刑名于轵张恢生所，与雒阳宋孟及刘带同师。
以文学为太常掌故。
错为人峭直刻深。
孝文时，天下亡治《尚书》者，独闻齐有伏生，故秦博士，治《尚书》，年九十余，老不可征。乃诏太常，使人受之。
太常遣错受《尚书》伏生所，还，因上书称说。
诏以为太子舍人，门大夫，迁博士。
又上书言： 人主所以尊显功名扬于万世之后者，以知术数也。
故人主知所以临制臣下而治其众，则群臣畏服矣；知所以听言受事，则不欺蔽矣；知所以安利万民，则海内必从矣；知所以忠孝事上，则臣子之行备矣：此四者，臣窃为皇太子急之。
人臣之议或曰皇太子亡以知事为也，臣之愚，诚以为不然。
窃观上世之君，不能奉其宗庙而劫杀于其臣者，皆不知术数者也。
皇太子所读书多矣，而未深知术数者，不问书说也。
translation: 
A rich man in Anling said to Zhichou: I heard that Ju Meng is a gambler. Why do you associate with him?
Yuan Ang said: Although Ju Meng was a gambler, his mother died, and more than a thousand cars came from other places to pay tribute, making him a place that surpassed everyone.
Besides, everyone has emergencies.
Once someone knocks on your door to beg you for something urgent or difficult, there is no need for your parents to be alive to shirk it, and there is no need to leave home to shirk it. The only people in the world who look up to them are Ji Xin and Ju Meng.
Nowadays, you are often followed by several warriors on horseback. In case of emergency, can you rely on them?
After rebuking the rich man, he stopped communicating with him.
When all the princes and noble officials heard about this, they all praised Yuan An.
Although Yuan An was leisurely at home, Emperor Jing often sent people to ask him about strategies.
The King of Liang wanted to become the heir to the throne, and Yuan An advised him not to have such discussions in the future.
The King of Liang resented Yuan An and sent people to assassinate Yuan An.
The assassins came to Guanzhong and asked Yuan Ang about his character. Many famous people praised him.
The assassin met Yuan Ang and said: I accept the money from King Liang to assassinate you. You are a cultivated person and I cannot bear to kill you.
But there will be more than ten groups of assassins in the future, so be on guard.
Yuan Ang felt unhappy and there were many strange things going on at home, so he went to Mr. Jue's house to ask for fortune telling.
When returning, the assassins from Liang who came later stopped Yuan An outside the gate of Anling City and stabbed him to death.
Chao Cuo was from Yingchuan.
I once studied the criminal naming theories of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang from Mr. Zhang Hui of Zhi County, and I was the same teacher as Song Meng and Liu Dai from Luoyang.
Because he was familiar with literature and classics, he served as Taichang's anecdote.
Chao Cuo was a severe, upright and harsh person.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, there was no one in the court who studied "Shang Shu". He only heard that there was Fu Sheng in Qi State. He was a doctor from the Qin Dynasty and was proficient in "Shang Shu". He was over ninety years old and could not be recruited because of his old age. Emperor Wen then ordered Taichang to send people to study.
Taichang sent Chao Cuo to Fu Shengna to study Shangshu. After returning, he took the opportunity to write a letter reporting on his study and praised his explanation of Shangshu.
Emperor Wen issued an edict and appointed him successively as the prince's minister and the family doctor, and later he was promoted to doctor.
Chao Cuo wrote again and said: The reason why the king has a noble and distinguished position and his fame has been spread for generations is because he knows how to use punishment and reputation.
Therefore, if you know how to control your ministers and govern the people, then the ministers will be fearful and obedient; if you know how to listen to various opinions, then you will not be deceived; if you know how to stabilize the society and make the people wealthy, then the people of the world will obey; if you know how to be loyal and filial to the elders, then the ministers will have the behavior. These four items, I believe, are the crown prince’s top priorities.
Some people think that the Crown Prince does not need to know what he is doing. Although I am stupid, I actually think this is not the case.
Look at the reason why the kings in the previous world could not worship in the ancestral temple and were coerced and killed by their ministers was because they did not understand the art of punishment.
The Crown Prince has read a lot, so the reason why he has not thoroughly mastered the art of punishment and naming is that he has not studied the meaning of the book.

summary:
summary line 4: Chao Cuo, a native of Yingchuan, studied Legalist philosophy under Zhang Hui and became a doctor under Emperor Wen. He was sent to study the *Book of Documents* from Fu Sheng and later served as a tutor to the crown prince, earning the nickname "think tank." Chao Cuo wrote extensively on military strategy, advocating for selecting good generals, training soldiers, and using superior weapons. He proposed using surrendered barbarians and border settlers to defend against the Xiongnu, emphasizing the importance of terrain and equipment. He also criticized the Qin dynasty's harsh policies and recommended settling families in border fortresses with proper housing, tools, and incentives.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
丞相遂发病死。错以此愈贵。
迁为御史大夫，请诸侯之罪过，削其支郡。
奏上，上令公卿、列侯、宗室杂议，莫敢难，独窦婴争之，繇此与错有隙。
错所更令三十章，诸侯讙哗。
错父闻之，从颍川来，谓错曰： 上初即位，公为政用事，侵削诸侯，疏人骨肉，口让多怨，公何为也？
错曰： 固也。
不如此，天子不尊，宗庙不安。
父曰： 刘氏安矣，而晁氏危，吾去公归矣！
遂饮药死，曰 吾不忍见祸逮身。
后十余日，吴、楚七国俱反，以诛错为名。
上与错议出军事，错欲令上自将兵，而身居守。
会窦婴言爰盎，诏召入见，上方与错调兵食。
上问盎曰： 君尝为吴相，知吴臣田禄伯为人乎？
今吴、楚反，于公意何如？ 对曰： 不足忧也，今破矣。
上曰： 吴王即山铸钱，煮海为盐，诱天下豪桀，白头举事，此其计不百全，岂发乎？
何以言其无能为也？
盎对曰： 吴铜、盐之利则有之，安得豪桀而诱之！
诚令吴得豪桀，亦且辅而为谊，不反矣。
吴所诱，皆亡赖子弟，亡命铸钱奸人，故相诱以乱。
错曰： 盎策之善。
上问曰： 计安出？
盎对曰： 愿屏左右。
上屏人，独错在。
盎曰： 臣所言，人臣不得知。
乃屏错。
错趋避东箱，甚恨。
上卒问盎，对曰： 吴、楚相遗书，言高皇帝王子弟各有分地，今贼臣晁错擅適诸侯，削夺之地，以故反名为西共诛错，复故地而罢。
方今计，独有斩错，发使赦吴、楚七国，复其故地，则兵可毋血刃而俱罢。
于是上默然良久，曰： 顾诚何如，吾不爱一人谢天下。
盎曰： 愚计出此，唯上孰计之。
乃拜盎为泰常，密装治行。
后十余日，丞相青翟、中尉嘉、廷慰欧劾奏错曰： 吴王反逆亡道，欲危宗庙，天下所当共诛。
今御史大夫错议曰： 兵数百万，独属群臣，不可信，陛下不如自出临兵，使错居守。
徐、僮之旁吴所未下者可以予吴。
错不称陛下德信，欲疏群臣百姓，又欲以城邑予吴，亡臣子礼，大逆无道。
错当要斩，父母妻子同产无少长皆弃市。
臣请论如法。
制曰： 可。
错殊不知。
乃使中尉召错，绐载行市。错衣朝衣，斩东市。
错已死，谒者仆射邓公为校尉，击吴、楚为将。
还，上书言军事，见上。
上问曰： 道军所来，闻晁错死，吴、楚罢不？
邓公曰： 吴为反数十岁矣，发怒削地，以诛错为名，其意不在错也。
且臣怒天下之士箝口不敢复言矣。 上曰： 何哉？
邓公曰： 夫晁错患诸侯强大不可制，故请削之，以尊京师，万世之利也。
计划始行，卒受大戮，内杜忠臣之口，外为诸侯报仇，臣窃为陛下不取也。
于是景帝喟然长息，曰： 公言善。吾亦恨之！
translation: 
The prime minister fell ill and died, making Chao Cuo even more powerful.
Chao Cuo was promoted to the imperial censor, and he stated the sins of the princes and requested that their lands be reduced and their neighboring counties be recovered.
After the memorial was sent, the emperor ordered the ministers, princes and royal family to gather for discussion. No one dared to criticize him, except Baoying who disagreed. From then on, there was a gap between him and Chao.
The decree revised by Chao Cuo had thirty chapters. The princes were in an uproar and hated Chao Cuo.
When Chao Cuo's father heard the news, he came from Yingchuan and said to Chao Cuo: Your Majesty has just ascended the throne. You have been in power, infringing and weakening the princes, and alienating other people's flesh and blood. People blame you and resent you. Why do you do this?
Chao Cuo said: Of course.
Otherwise, the emperor will not be noble and the country will not be peaceful.
Chao Cuo's father said: The Liu family's world is at peace, but the Chao family is in danger. I leave you and go back!
He took poison and died. When he was dying, he said: I can't bear to see a disaster involving myself.
Ten days later, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu all rebelled against Chao Cuo.
The emperor and Chao Cuo discussed sending troops. Chao Cuo wanted the emperor to personally lead the troops and let him guard the rear.
At that time, Dou Ying was recommending Yuan An, and Shou Shao came to see him. The emperor was planning military rations with Chao Cuo.
The emperor asked Yuan Ang: "You once served as the prime minister of Wu. Do you know Wu Chen Tian Lubo's character?"
What do you think about Wu and Chu's rebellion today? He replied: "Don't worry, we can defeat them today."
The emperor said: King Wu minted money from the mountains, boiled the sea into salt, seduced the world's heroes, and started a rebellion with a white scarf on his head. This plan has not been completed yet, so how can we give up?
Why do you say he has nothing to worry about?
Yuan Ang replied: The copper salt in Wu State is of great benefit, so why not find heroes to seduce it?
If the country of Wu is really blessed with heroes, they will only serve as assistants and will not rebel.
The people Wu Guo seduced were all scoundrels who were desperate to make money and treacherous people, so they attracted chaos later.
Chao Cuo said: Yuan Ance is very good.
The emperor said: How to plan for quelling the chaos?
Yuan An said: "Please everyone on the left and right please step back."
The people on the left and right left, leaving Chao Cuo alone.
Yuan An said: What I want to say is not known to others.
So Chao Cuo was asked to step aside.
Chao Cuo hurriedly fled to the Shuxiang room, hating Yuan Ang deeply.
The emperor asked Yuan An urgently and replied: The ministers of Wu and Chu sent letters saying that Emperor Gao made his children kings and each had their own land. Now Chao Cuo, the traitor, is good at punishing the princes and depriving them of their land. Therefore, he went west to attack Chao Cuo in the name of rebellion. He restored the original fiefdom and then stopped.
The current strategy is to kill Chao Cuo, send envoys to pardon the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, and restore their old lands. Then they can all stop fighting without bloodshed.
So the emperor remained silent for a long time and then said: "Look at the situation, I don't love anyone to thank the world."
Yuan Ang said: If you take out the Yu Ji, you can only make a careful calculation by the emperor.
So Ren Yuan Ang thought it was too often, secretly packed his bags and set off.
More than ten days later, Prime Minister Qing Zhai, Lieutenant Jia, and Ting Lieutenant Zhang Ou impeached Chao Cuo, saying: King Wu is rebellious and wants to harm the ancestral temple, and the whole world should punish him.
Now Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, suggested: "With millions of soldiers, it is not reliable to hand them over to the ministers alone. It is better for your majesty to lead the troops yourself and let Chao Cuo stay behind."
The unconquered areas around Xu and Tong can be given to Wu.
Chao Cuo did not praise His Majesty's virtue and integrity, but wanted to alienate the ministers and people, and also wanted to give the city to Wu. He did not fulfill the courtesy of a minister, and was treasonous.
Chao Cuo should be punished by being cut in half, and his parents, wives, brothers, young and old, should be put to death.
Please handle the matter according to law.
The emperor's instructions said: "Okay."
Chao Cuo had no idea.
He sent a lieutenant to summon Chao Cuo and tricked him into getting into a car and passing through the market. Chao Cuo was beheaded in Shushi wearing court clothes.
Chao Cuo was dead, and his servant, Duke Deng, served as a school captain. At this time, he served as a general to attack the rebels of Wu and Chu.
He returned to the capital, wrote a letter reporting the military situation, and went to see the emperor.
The emperor asked: When you came from the army and heard that Chao Cuo was dead, did Wu and Chu retreat?
邓公说： 吴王谋反已有几十年了，因削减他的封地而发怒，以诛杀晁错为名，他的本意不在晁错呀。
Moreover, I am worried that the scholar-bureaucrats in the world will keep silent and dare not speak out. The emperor said: Why?
Deng Gong said: Chao Cuo was worried that the princes were too strong to be subdued, so he asked to reduce the fiefdoms of the princes in order to respect the imperial court. This is a good thing for all times.
The plan had just started to be implemented, but he was killed. Internally, it blocked the mouths of loyal ministers. Externally, it avenged the princes. I privately think that it is not advisable for you to do this.
At this time, Emperor Jing sighed loudly and said: You are right, I also regret this.

summary:
summary line 5: Under Emperor Jing, Chao Cuo rose to power as Imperial Censor and pushed for reducing the fiefs of feudal princes, sparking widespread resentment. His father warned him of the danger, but Chao Cuo insisted it was necessary for the state's stability. When the Seven States rebelled, Chao Cuo was executed on the advice of Yuan Ang and others, despite his loyalty. After his death, Deng Gong defended him, noting that the rebellion was premeditated and not truly about Chao Cuo. Emperor Jing later regretted the execution.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
乃拜邓公为城阳中尉。
邓公，成固人也，多奇计。
建元年中，上招贤良，公卿言邓先。邓先时免，起家为九卿。
一年，复谢病免归。
其子章，以修黄、老言显诸公间。
赞曰：爰盎虽不好学，亦善傅会，仁心为质，引义慷慨。
遭孝文初立，资适逢世。
时已变易，及吴壹说，果于用辩，身亦不遂。
晁错锐于为国远虑，而不见身害。
其父睹之，经于沟渎，亡益救败，不如赵母指括，以全其宗。
悲夫！
错虽不终，世哀其忠。
故论其施行之语著于篇。
translation: 
So Deng Gong was appointed as the lieutenant of Chengyang.
Deng Gong was from Chenggu and had many strange strategies.
In the first year of Jianyuan, the imperial court wanted to recruit virtuous people, and the ministers recommended Deng Gong. At this time, Deng Gong was dismissed from his post and was appointed as the ninth minister by common people.
A year later, Mr. Deng resigned and returned home again due to illness.
His son Sutong was very famous among the court ministers because of his research on the theories of Jianhu and Wang.
Zan said: Although Yuan Ang is not eager to learn, he is also good at understanding and understanding. He still has the essence of benevolence and is often passionate and generous when citing great causes.
When Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, his talents came at the right time.
Times changed, and during the reign of Emperor Jing, he used a trick to kill Chao Cuo for his suggestion of Wu and Chu rebellion, and he himself finally suffered an accident.
Chao Cuo was keen on making foresight for the country, but he could not see that his own disaster was coming.
His father could see clearly, but committed suicide in a ditch, which was of no use to save the country from defeat. It is not as good as Zhao's mother to blame Zhao Kuo. Although Zhao Kuo was defeated by Changping, he saved the Zhao family from being killed by Lian Lifa.
How sad!
Although Chao Cuo did not die well, the world still lamented his loyalty.
Therefore, his remarks related to the implementation of political affairs were collected and recorded in his biography.

summary:
summary line 6: The historian's commentary notes that Yuan Ang, though not deeply learned, was perceptive and benevolent, but his scheme to kill Chao Cuo ultimately led to his own downfall. Chao Cuo was farsighted in statecraft but blind to his personal peril, unlike Zhao Kuo's mother who saved her family from destruction. Despite his unjust death, Chao Cuo's loyalty was mourned, and his policy writings were preserved.

