Summary uses chunk [16, 0, 1, 4, 6, 8, 11, 14, 16]

Chunk 16: 
original: 
冬，颎将万余人击破之，斩其酋豪，首虏四千余人。
八年春，颎复击勒姐种，斩首四百余级，降者二千余人。
夏，进军击当煎种于湟中，颎兵败，被围三日，用隐士樊志张策，潜师夜出，鸣鼓还战，大破之，首虏数千人。
颎遂穷追，展转山谷间，自春及秋，无日不战，虏遂饥困败散，北略武威间。
颎凡破西羌，斩首二万三千级，获生口数万人，马牛羊八百万头，降者万余落。
封颎都乡侯，邑五百户。
永康元年，当煎诸种复反，合四千余人，欲攻武威，颎复追击于鸾鸟，大破之，杀其渠帅，斩首三千余级，西羌于此弭定。
而东羌先零等，自覆没征西将军马贤后，朝廷不能讨，遂数寇扰三辅。
其后度辽将军皇甫规、中郎将张奂招之连年，既降又叛。
桓帝诏问颎曰： 先零东羌造恶反逆，而皇甫规、张奂各拥强众，不时辑定。
欲颎移兵东讨，未识其宜，可参思术略。
颎因上言曰： 臣伏见先零东羌虽数叛逆，而降于皇甫规者，已二万许落，善恶既分，余寇无几。
今张奂踌躇久不进者，当虑外离内合，兵往必惊。
且自冬践春，屯结不散，人畜疲羸，自亡之势，徒更招降，坐制强敌耳。
translation: 
In winter, Duan Juan defeated them with more than 10,000 people, beheaded their commander, and killed more than 4,000 prisoners.
In the spring of the eighth year, Duan Juan attacked Lejiezhong again, beheading more than 400 people and surrendering more than 2,000 people.
In the summer, they marched to attack Dang Jianzhong in Huangzhong. Duan Zhao's soldiers were defeated and were besieged for three days. He used the hermit Fan Zhi to devise a strategy and secretly sent out troops at night, beating drums to fight back. They defeated the rebel army and killed thousands of people.
Duan Jiong pursued them fiercely, moving through the valleys, fighting every day from spring to autumn. As a result, the enemy was hungry and sleepy, so they fled and went north to invade the Wuwei area.
Duan Juan defeated the Xiqiang, beheading 23,000 people in total, captured tens of thousands of people, and captured 8 million horses, cattle and sheep. More than 10,000 tribesmen surrendered.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Duanjudu Township, with a settlement of 500 households.
In the first year of Yongkang, Dangjian Zhuzhong rebelled and gathered more than 4,000 people to attack Wuwei. Duan Jiong pursued Luanniao and completely defeated them. He killed their leader and beheaded more than 3,000 people. The Xiqiang was pacified from then on.
Since the Eastern Qiang Xianling and others defeated the general Ma Xian who conquered the West, the imperial court was unable to conquer and often harassed the three assistants.
Later, the Liao generals Huangfu Gui and Zhonglang general Zhang Huan tried to surrender year after year, but they always surrendered and then rebelled.
Emperor Huan issued an edict and asked Duan Qiang: "Xian Ling Dong Qiang rebelled against evil, but Huangfu Gui and Zhang Huan each had elite troops and could not quell them on time."
I want you to lead an army to conquer the east, but I don't know what is appropriate. Can you come up with some strategies?
Duan Jiong said: I saw that although the Xianling Dongqiang rebelled many times, about 20,000 tribesmen had surrendered to Huangfu Gui. Who is good and who is evil has been distinguished, and there are not many bandits left.
Now Zhang Huan is delaying to advance, probably because he is afraid that the enemy will separate from the outside and unite with the inside. If he sends troops to go there, those who surrender will be frightened.
Moreover, they have been gathering and stationed from winter to spring. The men and horses are tired and sick. This is a suicidal situation. As long as they recruit surrender quickly, they can subdue the powerful enemy without sending a single soldier.

summary:
summary line 0: # Summary of the Biographies of Huangfu Gui, Zhang Huan, and Duan Jiong

Chunk 0: 
original: 
皇甫规张奂段颎皇甫规字威明，安定朝那人也。
祖父棱，度辽将军。
父旗，扶风都尉。
永和六年，西羌大寇三辅，围安定，征西将军马贤将诸郡兵击之，不能克。
规虽在布衣，见贤不恤军事，审其必败，乃上书言状。寻而贤果为羌所没。
郡将知规有兵略，乃命为功曹，使率甲士八百，与羌交战，斩首数级，贼遂退却。
举规上计掾。
其后羌众大合，攻烧陇西，朝廷患之。
规乃上疏求乞自效，曰：臣比年以来，数陈便宜。
羌戎未动，策其将反，马贤始出，颇知必败。
误中之言，在可考校。
臣每惟贤等拥众四年，未有成功，悬师之费且百亿计，出于平人，回入奸吏。
故江湖之人，群为盗贼，青、徐荒饥，襁负流散。
夫羌戎溃叛，不由承平，皆由边将失于绥御。
乘常守安，则加侵暴，苟竞小利，则致大害，微胜则虚张首级，军败则隐匿不言。
军士劳怨，困于猾吏，进不得快战以徼功，退不得温饱以全命，饿死沟渠，暴骨中原。徒见王师之出，不闻振旅之声。
translation: 
Huangfu Guizhuan, whose courtesy name was Weiming, was from that county in Anding County.
His grandfather Huangfuleng was a general of Liao Dynasty.
His father, Huangfu Banner, was the Commander-in-Chief of Fufeng.
In the sixth year of Yonghe, the Western Qiang invaded Chang'an and the nearby Guanzhong areas, and surrounded Anding. General Ma Xian, the general who conquered the West, led troops from various counties to attack the Qiang, but they failed to win.
Although Huangfu Gui was a civilian at this time, he found that Ma Xian was not worried about the war and judged that he was bound to fail, so he wrote to the court stating Ma Xian's situation and his own views.
Soon Ma Xian was defeated by the Xiqiang. The county governor knew Huangfu Gui's strategy of using soldiers, so he appointed him as a meritorious officer and sent him to lead 800 armed soldiers to fight with the Qiang people and kill several enemies, so the bandits retreated.
Then he recommended Huangfu Gui to the position of planner.
Later, Qiang soldiers gathered in large numbers to attack, burn, and plunder Longxi, and the court thought it was a disaster.
Huangfu went to the imperial court and asked to serve the country, saying: In recent years, I have stated many times the measures to deal with the Western Qiang.
The Qiang Rong had not yet moved, so I expected him to rebel. As soon as Ma Xian sent troops, I knew he would be defeated.
These words said by chance are supported by facts everywhere.
I often think that Ma Xian and others have been holding troops for four years without success. The cost of suspending the army is calculated in tens of billions. This money comes from the common people and falls into the pockets of traitors.
Therefore, the common people in the rivers and lakes gathered together as thieves, there was famine in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and the old and the weak were scattered.
It turns out that the Qiang Rong rebelled, not when the world was at peace, because the border generals failed to appease and govern them.
They should be in peace, but they invade them. In order to obtain small benefits, they end up causing great harm. In order to prove that they won the battle, they often falsely reported the number of beheadings, and they kept it secret when they lost the battle.
The soldiers worked hard, were full of resentment, and were forced by the treacherous officials. They could not advance quickly to gain fame and retreat, and could not retreat to have enough food and clothing to survive. They starved to death in the ditch and left their corpses scattered everywhere. They saw the king's division send troops in vain, but did not see the king's division come back.

summary:
summary line 1: Huangfu Gui, courtesy name Weiming, was from Anding County. His grandfather served as a Liao general and his father as Commander-in-Chief of Fufeng. During the sixth year of Yonghe, when Western Qiang forces invaded Chang'an and surrounded Anding, General Ma Xian failed to defeat them. Huangfu Gui, though a civilian, recognized Ma Xian's impending defeat and wrote to the court about it. After Ma Xian was defeated, the county governor appointed Huangfu Gui as a meritorious officer. He led 800 soldiers against the Qiang, killing several enemies and causing the bandits to retreat. He was subsequently recommended as a planner.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
酋豪泣血，惊惧生变。
是以安不能久，败则经年。
臣所以搏手叩心而增叹者也。
愿假臣两营二郡，屯列坐食之兵五千，出其不意，与护羌校尉赵冲共相首尾。
土地山谷，臣所晓习；兵势巧便，臣已更之。
可不烦方寸之印，尺帛之赐，高可以涤患，下可以纳降。
若谓臣年少官轻，不足用者，凡诸败将，非官爵之不高，年齿之不迈。
臣不胜至诚，没死自陈。
时帝不能用。
冲、质之间，梁太后临朝，规举贤良方正。
对策曰：伏惟孝顺皇帝，初勤王政，纪纲四方，几以获安。
后遭奸伪，威分近习，畜货聚马，戏谑是闻。又因缘嬖幸，受赂卖爵，轻使宾客，交错其间，天下扰扰，从乱如归。
故每有征战，鲜不挫伤，官民并竭，上下穷虚。
臣在关西，窃听风声，未闻国家有所先后，而威福之来，咸归权幸。
陛下体兼乾坤，聪哲纯茂。
摄政之初，拔用忠贞，其余维纲，多所改正。远近翕然，望见太平。
而地震之后，雾气白浊，日月不光，旱魃为虐，大贼从横，流血丹野，庶品不安，谴诫累至，殆以奸臣权重之所致也。
translation: 
Weeping and weeping for God's sorrow, fearing that something might happen.
Therefore, the period of peace is very short, and once chaos breaks out, it lasts for many years.
This is what I sigh with clapping my hands and tapping my heart.
I hope to give me the strength of the two battalions of Ma Xian and Zhao Chong and the land of the two counties of Anding and Longxi. I will lead five thousand soldiers to sit down and eat. If there is an unexpected Qiang Rong incident, I will be responsible for the head and tail of Zhao Chong, the captain of the Qiang school.
The situation of the land and valleys is familiar to me; the military situation is convenient and I have rectified it.
You don't have to worry about using a square-inch seal to issue documents, and a foot of silk as a reward. High can eliminate worries, and low can accept surrender.
If it is said that I am young and have a low official rank, I cannot be used. Those generals who defeated the army are not high in official rank and young in age.
How can I say this? I am so sincere that I will risk my life to tell my story.
The emperor did not use him at that time.
During the reign of Emperor Chong and Emperor Zhi, the Empress Dowager Liang was in power, and Huangfu Gui was praised as virtuous and upright.
Huangfu Gui countermeasures asked: If you want to be filial to the emperor, if you are in power and establish court discipline, the country will soon be at peace.
Later, he was cheated and manipulated, and his authority was controlled by the villains close to him. He accumulated wealth and made fun of people. He also cheated on the villains, accepted bribes, sold his official position, and used guests at will. He interacted with each other in confusion and disturbed the world. He returned from chaos.
Every time there is an expedition, there are always failures and setbacks. Officials and people are exhausted, and everything is empty.
When I was in Kansai, I heard the news that the country had not taken any measures in this regard, and that the powerful and sycophant were dominating and doing whatever they wanted.
The emperor is great, wise and pure.
In the early days of the regency, Zhongliang was selected and appointed, and various political measures were made. Many corrections were made. Regardless of whether they were far or near, they quickly obeyed orders, and we can wait and see how the world will be peaceful.
But after the earthquake, the fog was white and turbid, the sun and moon were dim, droughts and tyrants were causing disasters, thieves were rampant everywhere, blood was shed, and the people and animals were uneasy. God condemned and warned one after another, probably because the treacherous ministers were too powerful.

summary:
summary line 2: When Qiang soldiers later gathered to attack Longxi, Huangfu Gui petitioned the emperor, explaining that the Qiang rebellion resulted from border generals failing to properly govern, instead invading peaceful territories for small gains, falsely reporting victories, and concealing defeats. He requested command of troops from two battalions and two counties to lead 5,000 soldiers against the Qiang, but the emperor did not use him at that time. During the reigns of Emperors Chong and Zhi, when Empress Dowager Liang held power, Huangfu Gui was praised as virtuous and upright. He criticized the court for allowing treacherous ministers to accumulate wealth, sell official positions, and disturb the world. He specifically condemned General Liang Ji and others for their misconduct, urging the dismissal of corrupt officials. Liang Ji hated Huangfu Gui for mocking him and appointed him as a doctor, but Huangfu Gui excused himself due to illness and returned home, teaching over 300 students for fourteen years.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣穷居孤危之中，坐观郡将，已数十年矣。
自鸟鼠至于东岱，其病一也。力求猛敌，不如清平；勤明吴、孙，未若奉法。
前变未远，臣诚戚之。
是以越职，尽其区区。
至冬，羌遂大合，朝廷为忧。
三公举规为中郎将，持节监关西兵，讨零吾等，破之，斩首八百级。
先零诸种羌慕规威信，相劝降者十余万。
明年，规因发其骑共讨陇右，而道路隔绝，军中大疫，死者十三四。
规亲入庵庐，巡视将士，三军感悦。
东羌遂遣使乞降，凉州复通。
先是，安定太守孙受取狼籍，属国都尉李翕、督军御史张禀多杀降羌，凉州剌史郭闳、汉阳大守越熹并老弱不堪任职，而皆倚恃权贵，不遵法度。
规到州界，悉条奏其罪，或免或诛。
羌人闻之，翕然反善。沈氐大豪滇昌、饥恬等十余万口，复诣规降。
规出身数年，持节为将，拥众立功，还督乡里，既无他私惠，而多所举奏，又恶绝宦官，不与交通，于是中外并怨，遂共诬规货赂群羌，令其文降。
天子玺书诮让相属。
规惧不免，上疏自讼曰：四年之秋，戎丑蠢戾，爰自西州，侵及泾阳，旧都惧骇，朝廷西顾。
明诏不以臣愚驽，急使军就道。
幸蒙威灵，遂振国命，羌戎诸种，大小稽首，辄移书营郡，以访诛纳，所省之费，一亿以上。
translation: 
I have been living in poverty, isolation and danger, watching the commander-in-chief for decades.
From Niao Mo to Dong Dai, it was because the governor did not appease the Qiang and led to rebellion. The cause of the disaster was the same. If you want brave generals, it is better to have a peaceful politics of the Qing Dynasty and to study the military techniques of Wu Qi and Sun Wu than to have a county guard follow the law so that they will not rebel.
The memories of the Qiang rebellion in the past are still fresh in my mind, and I am really worried about this.
Therefore, I went beyond my duties and submitted a letter to fulfill my only patriotic intention.
In winter, all the Qiang people gathered together and were ready to move, and the court felt worried.
Sangong promoted Huangfu Gui to the rank of Zhonglang General, held the emperor's talisman to supervise the Guanxi soldiers, conquered Lingwu and others, defeated them, and beheaded eight hundred people.
There were more than 100,000 Qiang people who envied Huangfu Gui's prestige and persuaded each other to surrender.
The next year, Huangfu Gui took the opportunity to mobilize his cavalry to jointly attack Longyou. However, the roads were blocked and an epidemic broke out in the army. Three or four out of ten people died of the disease.
Huangfu Gui personally entered the nunnery to express condolences to the soldiers. The three armies were grateful and happy.
Because the Eastern Qiang sent envoys to beg for surrender, Liangzhou was no longer blocked.
At that time, Sun Gen, the governor of Anding, was very serious about bribery and corruption. Li Xi, the captain of the country, and Zhang Xun, the governor's censor, killed and surrendered the Qiang. Guo Hong, the governor of Liangzhou, and Zhao Xi, the governor of Hanyang, were both old and weak and could not hold their posts. However, they relied on powerful relatives and did not abide by the laws of the country.
Huangfu Gui arrived at the state border and reported their crimes one by one. Some were removed from their official positions and some were sentenced to death.
After hearing this, the Qiang people quickly surrendered. More than 100,000 people including Dianchang and Xongtian, the great tycoons of the Shen family, surrendered to Huangfu Gui.
Huangfu Gui was born a few years ago and held the Emperor's Talisman as a general. He led the people to perform meritorious service and returned to supervise the countryside. He had no personal favors. On the contrary, he reported many bad people and bad deeds. He also hated eunuchs deeply and refused to associate with them. As a result, people inside and outside the court complained about him, and they all falsely accused Huangfu Gui of bribing the Qiang people and causing them to surrender.
The emperor issued edicts one after another.
Huangfu Gui was afraid that he would be killed, so he complained to Shangshu: In the autumn of the fourth year, Rong Chou made a fool of himself to cause chaos. From Xizhou to Jingyang, the old capital was frightened and the imperial court looked westward.
The imperial edict of the Ming Dynasty did not consider me a fool and ordered me to urgently lead the army on the road.
Thanks to the emperor's power, the country's fortunes were greatly boosted. Qiang and Rong, large and small, kowtowed and submitted. I immediately sent a letter to the military camp and the county guard to inquire how many they had killed and how many they had surrendered. This saved the cost, which was more than 100 million.

summary:
summary line 3: After Liang Ji was killed, the court summoned Huangfu Gui five times but he did not respond. He was later appointed as the prefect of Taishan to deal with bandit Sun Wuji, and he successfully pacified all the bandits. In the fourth year of Yanxi, when Qiang forces invaded Guanzhong, Huangfu Gui, familiar with Qiang affairs, petitioned to serve. He was promoted to Zhonglang General and defeated the Qiang, beheading 800 people. Over 100,000 Qiang people surrendered due to his prestige. However, Huangfu Gui reported the crimes of corrupt officials, including the governor of Anding and others, leading to their removal or execution. This made him enemies both inside and outside the court, who falsely accused him of bribing the Qiang. Huangfu Gui defended himself, explaining that his actions saved over 100 million in costs and that his expenditures were documented. Despite his merits, eunuchs Xu Huang and Zuo Xiang demanded bribes from him, and when he refused, they framed him. He was sentenced to hard labor but was released after an amnesty.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
传称 鹿死不择音 ，谨冒味略上。
其年冬，征还拜议郎。论功当封。
而中常侍徐璜、左忄官欲从求货，数遣宾客就问功状，规终不答。
璜乘忿怒，陷以前事，下之于吏。
官属欲赋敛请谢，规誓而不听，遂以余寇不绝，坐系廷尉，论输左校。
诸公及太学生张凤等三百余人诣阙讼之。
会赦，归家。
征拜度辽将军，至营数月，上书荐中郎将张奂以自代。
曰： 臣闻人无常俗，而政有治乱；兵无强弱，而将有能否。
伏见中郎将张奂，才略兼优，宜正元帅，以从众望。
若犹谓愚臣宜充军事者，愿乞冗官，以为奂副。
朝廷从之，以奂代为度辽将军，规为使匈奴中郎将。及奂迁大司农，规复代为度辽将军。
规为人多意算，自以连在大位，欲退身避第，数上病，不见听。
会友人上郡太守王旻丧还，规缟素越界，到下亭迎之。
因令客密告并州刺史胡芳，言规擅远军营，公违禁宪，当急举奏。
芳曰： 威明欲避第仕涂，故激发我耳。
吾当为朝廷爱才，何能申此子计邪！
遂无所问。
及党事大起，天下名贤多见染逮，规虽为名将，素誉不高。
自以西州豪桀，耻不得豫，乃先自上言： 臣前荐故大司农张奂，是附党也。
又臣昔论输左校时，太学生张凤等上书讼臣，是为党人所附也。
朝廷知而不问，时人以为规贤。
translation: 
"The Biography" says that "a deer will not choose his voice even if it dies". I don't care about it anymore, so I will ignore it lightly.
In the winter of this year, he was called back to the imperial court as Yilang. According to his merits, he should be knighted.
Xu Huang and Zuo Xiang, the regular servants in the imperial court, asked for money from him and sent guests many times to ask about his meritorious service, but Huangfu Gui never answered.
Xu Huang and others were angry, framed him for past events and handed him over for interrogation.
The officials wanted to collect some money for him to apologize, but Huangfu swore not to listen, so he was convicted as a Tingwei because he had not cleared out the remaining bandits, and was sentenced to a labor reform in Zuo School.
More than 300 people, including the princes and imperial student Zhang Feng, went to the court to appeal for him.
Encounter amnesty and return home.
He recruited General Du Liao and stayed in the camp for a few months. He then wrote a letter recommending General Zhang Huan to replace him.
Said: I heard that people have unchanging customs, that politics is regulated and chaotic, and that there is no such thing as strong or weak soldiers, but there will be those with strong abilities and those with weak abilities.
Zhang Huan, the commander-in-chief, is very talented and strategic. He should be appointed as the marshal in order to meet everyone's expectations.
If I can still serve in the military, I would like to be given a casual official position as Zhang Huan's assistant.
The imperial court approved his request, and Zhang Huan was appointed as the general to conquer the Liao Dynasty, and Huangfu Gui was appointed as the envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General. Later, Zhang Huan was promoted to the chief minister of agriculture, and Huangfu Gui was appointed as the general to conquer the Liao Dynasty again.
Huangfu Gui was very scheming. He thought that he was still in the high position, and wanted to retire quickly and stop serving as an official. He wrote many times to complain about his illness, but no one listened.
When the coffin of his friend Wang, the governor of Shangjun, passed away and returned to his hometown, Huangfu Gui crossed the border in white plain clothes and went to the lower pavilion to welcome the funeral.
Yin Lingke secretly told Hu Fang, the governor of Bingzhou, that Huangfu Gui stayed away from the military camp without permission and blatantly violated the ban, so he should report it immediately.
Hu Fang said: Wei Ming wanted to return home and leave his official career, so he inspired me.
I should love talents for the imperial court, so how can I help him with his plans?
Ignore him.
Later, party affairs broke out, and many celebrities and sages in the world were implicated. Although Huangfu Gui was a famous general, he was not usually well-known.
He considered himself a hero of Xizhou, and thought it was shameful that he was not involved in party affairs, so he wrote to him first and said: I used to recommend Zhang Huan, the great minister of agriculture, but this was a sign of being a party member.
Also, when I was undergoing reform through labor at the Left School, Taipei student Zhang Feng and others wrote a letter to appeal on my behalf. This was a party member trying to win over me, and I should be held accountable.
The imperial court knew this but did not hold anyone accountable. People at that time thought Huangfu Gui was a wise man.

summary:
summary line 4: Huangfu Gui later recommended General Zhang Huan to replace him as commander. He was appointed as General Conquering Liao, but repeatedly requested retirement due to illness. When party affairs broke out, Huangfu Gui, considering himself a hero of Xizhou, felt ashamed not to be implicated and wrote to claim involvement, but the court did not hold him accountable. He died at age seventy-one, leaving twenty-seven written works. The historian commented that Huangfu Gui's words matched his actions, and he achieved success in military affairs without greed or arrogance.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
张奂字然明，敦煌渊泉人也。
父忄享，为汉阳太守。
奂少游三辅，师事太尉朱宠，学《欧阳尚书》。
初，《牟氏章句》浮辞繁多，有四十五万余言，奂减为九万言。
后辟大将军梁冀府，乃上书桓帝，奏其《章句》，诏下东观，以疾去官，复举贤良，对策第一，擢拜议郎。
永寿元年，迁安定属国都尉。
初到职，而南匈奴左薁鞬台耆、且渠伯德等七千余人寇美稷，东羌复举种应之，而奂壁唯有二百许人，闻即勒兵而出。
军吏以为力不敌，叩头争止之。奂不听，遂进屯长城，收集兵士，遣将王卫招诱东羌，因据龟兹，使南匈奴不得交通东羌。
诸豪遂相率与奂和亲，共击薁鞬等，连战破之。
伯德惶恐，将其众降，郡界以宁。
羌豪帅感奂恩德，上马二十匹，先零酋长又遗金八枚，奂并受之，而召主簿于诸羌前，以酒酹地曰： 使马如羊，不以入厩；使金如粟，不以入怀。
悉以金马还之。
羌性贪而贵吏清，前有八都尉率好财货，为所患苦，及奂正身洁己，威化大行。
迁使匈奴中郎将。
translation: 
◆The biography of Zhang Huan, named Ranming, was from Yuanquan County, Dunhuang County.
His father, Zhang, was the governor of Hanyang.
When Zhang Huan was young, he traveled to study at Sanfu, where he studied "Ouyang Shangshu" with Taiwei Zhu Chong as his teacher.
At first, "Mou's Chapters" contained many redundant words and phrases, with more than 450,000 words, but Zhang Huan cut it down to 90,000 words.
Later, the general Liang Jifu was recruited, so he wrote to Emperor Huan and presented his "Zhangju" and ordered him to serve in Dongguan. He was dismissed from the official position due to illness, and was recommended as a virtuous person. When the emperor asked for advice, he answered first, and was promoted to Yilang.
In the first year of Yongshou, he was transferred to the capital of Anding.
Just after taking office, more than 7,000 people including Zuo Ge, Qiequ Bode and others from the Southern Xiongnu invaded Meiji. The Eastern Qiang responded to them all again. There were only 200 people in Zhang Huan's position. When he heard the alarm, he led his troops out.
The military officials believed that they were not as powerful as the enemy and kowtowed to stop them. Zhang Huan refused to listen. They stationed at the Great Wall, gathered soldiers, and sent general Wang Wei to lure the Eastern Qiang. They occupied Qiuci so that the Southern Huns could not communicate with the Eastern Qiang.
The leaders of various ministries made peace with Zhang Huan, and together they attacked the Gejian and other ministries. They defeated the Gejian and other ministries in several consecutive battles.
Byrd was frightened and led his men to surrender, and the county was at peace.
The Qiang marshal was grateful for Zhang Huan's kindness and presented him with twenty horses. Chief Xianling also presented eight gold taels. Zhang Huan accepted it, but called the chief clerk in front of each Qiang, poured wine over it and said: If the horse is like a sheep, it cannot be put into the stable; if the gold is like millet, it cannot be put into the bosom.
All the golden horses were returned to the marshal and chief.
The Qiang people are greedy in nature, but they respect honest officials the most. In the past, the eight captains were all fond of wealth and suffered from them.
Promoted to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General.

summary:
summary line 5: Zhang Huan, courtesy name Ranming, was from Dunhuang County. He studied at Sanfu and later reduced a lengthy text from over 450,000 words to 90,000 words. After serving as a gentleman, he was transferred to Anding. When Southern Xiongnu and Eastern Qiang forces invaded with 7,000 men, Zhang Huan led only 200 troops but stationed at the Great Wall, gathered soldiers, and lured the Eastern Qiang to make peace. Together they attacked and defeated the invaders. The Qiang marshal presented him with twenty horses and eight gold taels, but Zhang Huan returned them, saying gold and horses could not be kept. He was promoted to Xiongnu Zhonglang General. When Xiutuge and Wuhuan rebelled, Zhang Huan calmly sat in his tent while others panicked, secretly lured Wuhuan to make peace, and defeated the rebels. After Liang Ji was executed, Zhang Huan was dismissed as his subordinate. Huangfu Gui recommended him seven times. He later served as prefect of Wuwei, where he changed the custom of killing children born in certain months. He was appointed General of Liao Dynasty, and for several years the border was peaceful.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
顺至为休征，逆来为殃咎。
阴气专用，则凝精为雹。
故大将军窦武、太傅陈蕃，或志宁社稷，或方直不回，前以谗胜，并伏诛戮，海内默默，人怀震愤。
昔周公葬不如礼，天乃动威。
今武、蕃忠贞，未被明宥，妖眚之来，皆为此也。
宜急为改葬，徙还家属。
其从坐禁锢，一切蠲除。
又皇太后虽居南宫，而恩礼不接，朝臣莫言，远近失望。
宜思大义顾复之报。
天子深纳奂言，以问诸黄门常侍，左右皆恶之，帝不得自从。
转奂太常，与尚书刘猛、刁韪、卫良同荐王暢、李膺可参三公之选，而曹节等弥疾其言，遂下诏切责之。
奂等皆自囚廷尉，数日乃得出，并以三月俸赎罪。
司隶校尉王寓，出于宦官，欲借宠公卿，公求荐举，百僚畏惮，莫不许诺，唯奂独拒之。
寓怒，因此遂陷以党罪，禁锢归田里。
奂前为度辽将军，与段颎争击羌，不相平。
及颎为司隶校尉，欲逐奂归敦煌，将害之。
奂忧惧，奏记谢颎曰：小人不明，得过州将，千里委命，以情相归。足下仁笃，照其辛苦，使人未反，复获邮书。
恩诏分明，前以写白，而州期切促，郡县惶惧，屏营延企，侧待归命。
父母朽骨，孤魂相托，若蒙矜怜，壹惠咳唾，则泽流黄泉，施及冥寞，非奂生死所能报塞。
夫无毛发之劳，而欲求人丘山之用，此淳于髡所以拍髀仰天而笑者也。
translation: 
It's a good sign if things go smoothly, but it's a disaster if things go wrong.
If the Yin energy is used exclusively, the essence will be condensed into hail.
The late General Dou Wu and Grand Tutor Chen Fan either aspired to a peaceful country or were upright and upright. They were all executed because of traitors and bad words. They were silent at home and did not dare to speak. People were shocked and angry.
In the past, Duke Zhou was buried improperly, and God took action because of this.
Now that Dou Wu and Chen Fan have been killed loyally and without Zhaoxue, the evil disaster is all because of this.
They should be reburied as soon as possible and their families should be moved back to their place of origin.
Those who have been imprisoned because of their relationship must be vindicated and all slanderous and untrue claims must be overturned.
Moreover, although the Empress Dowager lived in the Nangong Palace, she did not accept her kindness. The ministers in the court did not dare to speak, and people near and far were greatly disappointed.
I want to miss the kindness my parents gave me when I was born and take care of me, and I should repay it in some way.
The emperor fully accepted Zhang Huan's words, so he asked the Huangmen's regular attendants, and they all disagreed. The emperor dare not make his own decision.
It was too often that Zhang Huan, together with the ministers Liu Meng, Diao Wei, and Wei Liang, recommended Wang Chang and Li Ying to participate in the selection of the three princes. However, Cao Jie and others hated their recommendation and issued an edict to severely reprimand them.
Zhang Huan and others went to Tingwei to be prisoners. It took several days to get out, and they used three months' salary to atone for their sins.
Wang Yu, the captain of the Sili school, was a eunuch. He wanted to favor the eunuch and ask for his recommendation. All the officials were afraid of him and everyone agreed. Only Zhang Huan objected.
Wang Yu was angry, framed him for party crimes, banned him from being an official, and sent him back to the fields.
When Zhang Huan was the general of the Liao Dynasty, he and Duan Yin fought against each other to attack the Qiang people, and there was no harmony.
When Duan Yin was the captain of Sili school, he wanted to drive Zhang Huan back to Dunhuang and frame him.
Zhang Huan was worried and frightened, so he wrote to Duan Yu, saying: The villain is ignorant and has offended the state general. He traveled thousands of miles to ask for orders and met each other with love. You are kind and sincere. Seeing my hard work, the people I sent to you have not come back yet, and I have received your letter. The favor is very clear and has been written before.
It’s just that the state is pressing the deadline, and the counties are panicking. I stretched my neck and legs, anxiously waiting for the news of the deceased's fate.
Although my parents' bones have decayed and their souls are alone, if you take pity on me and speak for me, your kindness will flow to the underworld and reach the latter. This is something that I, Zhang Huan, cannot repay in my life or death.
He was a hairless man, but wanted to be used by others. This was why Chunyu Kun patted his thighs and looked up to the sky, laughing.

summary:
summary line 6: When Xianbei invaded, Zhang Huan was recalled to defend against them. Over 200,000 Xiongnu and Wuhuan surrendered. He was later deceived by eunuch Cao Jie into surrounding General Dou Wu, who committed suicide. Zhang Huan was devastated and refused the marquis title granted for this action. He later petitioned to rebury Dou Wu and Chen Fan and vindicate those imprisoned for their association, but eunuchs opposed this. Zhang Huan was eventually banned from office due to party crimes. He educated thousands of disciples and wrote over 300,000 words. He died at age seventy-eight, leaving instructions for a simple burial. His sons were famous for cursive calligraphy.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
其先出郑共叔段，西域都护会宗之从曾孙也。
颎少便习弓马，尚游侠，轻财贿，长乃折节好古学。
初举孝廉，为宪陵园丞、阳陵令，所在有能政。
迁辽东属国都尉。时鲜卑犯塞，颎即率所领驰赴之。
既而恐贼惊去，乃使驿骑诈赍玺书诏颎，颎于道伪退，潜于还路设伏。
虏以为信然，乃入追颎。
颎因大纵兵，悉斩获之。
坐诈玺书伏重刑，以有功论司寇。
刑竟，征拜议郎。
时，太山、琅邪贼东郭窦、公孙举等聚众三万人，破坏郡县，遣兵讨之，连年不克。
永寿二年，桓帝诏公卿选将有文武者，司徒尹颂荐颎，乃拜为中郎将。
击窦、举等，大破斩之，获首万余级，余党降散。
封颎为列侯，赐钱五十万，除一子为郎中。
延熹二年，迁护羌校尉。
translation: 
He is the great-grandson of the Western Region Protector Huizong.
Duan Juan learned horse racing and archery when he was young. He liked knight-errants and took bribes lightly. When he grew up, he changed his youthful ambition and became interested in ancient learning.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and served as Xianlingyuan Cheng and Yangling Ling. He showed great talents in office.
When he was promoted to captain of the Liaodong vassal state, Xianbei invaded the frontier fortress, so Duan Jun led his troops to the frontier fortress.
Because he was afraid that the thieves would flee in fear, he sent a post rider to pretend to deliver a seal to order Duan Jiong to retreat. Duan Jiong pretended to retreat on the road and set up an ambush on the retreating road.
Xianbei thought that Duan Jiong was really retreating and pursued Duan Jiong.
Duan Qiao then sent out a large number of troops, and all the Xianbei invaders were captured.
Duan Jong, however, deserved severe punishment for falsely claiming to be the official seal official. Because of his meritorious service, he was punished as a bandit and sent to the border to defend against enemies.
After serving his sentence, he was appointed as Yilang.
At this time, Taishan, Langfu bandits Dongguo Dou, Gongsun Ju and others gathered 30,000 people and destroyed the counties. The imperial court sent troops to suppress the rebellion, which could not be quelled for several years.
In the second year of Yongshou's reign, Emperor Huan ordered the ministers to elect those with all-round talents in both civil and military affairs as generals. Situ Yin Song recommended Duan Jiong, and Duan Jiong was awarded the title of Zhonglang General.
He conquered Dongguo Dou, Gongsun Ju and others and won a great victory. He killed Dongguo Dou and Gongsun Ju and gained more than 10,000 leaders. Some of the remaining party members fled and some surrendered.
He made Duanju a prince, rewarded him with 500,000 yuan, and appointed one of his sons as a doctor.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, he was promoted to the rank of Colonel Protecting Qiang.

summary:
summary line 7: Duan Jiong, courtesy name Jiming, was from Wuwei County. He learned horse racing and archery as a youth but later turned to ancient learning. He served as a captain and used a clever ambush to capture Xianbei invaders. He was appointed Zhonglang General to suppress bandits in Taishan, killing their leaders and gaining over 10,000 heads. He was promoted to Colonel Protecting Qiang and fought numerous battles against various Qiang groups, killing thousands and capturing tens of thousands. He was imprisoned due to a governor's false accusations but was later released and appointed governor of Bingzhou. He was again appointed Colonel Protecting Qiang and defeated the Qiang, beheading 23,000 and capturing tens of thousands. He was granted a marquis title.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
冬，颎将万余人击破之，斩其酋豪，首虏四千余人。
八年春，颎复击勒姐种，斩首四百余级，降者二千余人。
夏，进军击当煎种于湟中，颎兵败，被围三日，用隐士樊志张策，潜师夜出，鸣鼓还战，大破之，首虏数千人。
颎遂穷追，展转山谷间，自春及秋，无日不战，虏遂饥困败散，北略武威间。
颎凡破西羌，斩首二万三千级，获生口数万人，马牛羊八百万头，降者万余落。
封颎都乡侯，邑五百户。
永康元年，当煎诸种复反，合四千余人，欲攻武威，颎复追击于鸾鸟，大破之，杀其渠帅，斩首三千余级，西羌于此弭定。
而东羌先零等，自覆没征西将军马贤后，朝廷不能讨，遂数寇扰三辅。
其后度辽将军皇甫规、中郎将张奂招之连年，既降又叛。
桓帝诏问颎曰： 先零东羌造恶反逆，而皇甫规、张奂各拥强众，不时辑定。
欲颎移兵东讨，未识其宜，可参思术略。
颎因上言曰： 臣伏见先零东羌虽数叛逆，而降于皇甫规者，已二万许落，善恶既分，余寇无几。
今张奂踌躇久不进者，当虑外离内合，兵往必惊。
且自冬践春，屯结不散，人畜疲羸，自亡之势，徒更招降，坐制强敌耳。
translation: 
In winter, Duan Juan defeated them with more than 10,000 people, beheaded their commander, and killed more than 4,000 prisoners.
In the spring of the eighth year, Duan Juan attacked Lejiezhong again, beheading more than 400 people and surrendering more than 2,000 people.
In the summer, they marched to attack Dang Jianzhong in Huangzhong. Duan Zhao's soldiers were defeated and were besieged for three days. He used the hermit Fan Zhi to devise a strategy and secretly sent out troops at night, beating drums to fight back. They defeated the rebel army and killed thousands of people.
Duan Jiong pursued them fiercely, moving through the valleys, fighting every day from spring to autumn. As a result, the enemy was hungry and sleepy, so they fled and went north to invade the Wuwei area.
Duan Juan defeated the Xiqiang, beheading 23,000 people in total, captured tens of thousands of people, and captured 8 million horses, cattle and sheep. More than 10,000 tribesmen surrendered.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Duanjudu Township, with a settlement of 500 households.
In the first year of Yongkang, Dangjian Zhuzhong rebelled and gathered more than 4,000 people to attack Wuwei. Duan Jiong pursued Luanniao and completely defeated them. He killed their leader and beheaded more than 3,000 people. The Xiqiang was pacified from then on.
Since the Eastern Qiang Xianling and others defeated the general Ma Xian who conquered the West, the imperial court was unable to conquer and often harassed the three assistants.
Later, the Liao generals Huangfu Gui and Zhonglang general Zhang Huan tried to surrender year after year, but they always surrendered and then rebelled.
Emperor Huan issued an edict and asked Duan Qiang: "Xian Ling Dong Qiang rebelled against evil, but Huangfu Gui and Zhang Huan each had elite troops and could not quell them on time."
I want you to lead an army to conquer the east, but I don't know what is appropriate. Can you come up with some strategies?
Duan Jiong said: I saw that although the Xianling Dongqiang rebelled many times, about 20,000 tribesmen had surrendered to Huangfu Gui. Who is good and who is evil has been distinguished, and there are not many bandits left.
Now Zhang Huan is delaying to advance, probably because he is afraid that the enemy will separate from the outside and unite with the inside. If he sends troops to go there, those who surrender will be frightened.
Moreover, they have been gathering and stationed from winter to spring. The men and horses are tired and sick. This is a suicidal situation. As long as they recruit surrender quickly, they can subdue the powerful enemy without sending a single soldier.

summary:
summary line 8: When Emperor Huan asked about dealing with Eastern Qiang, Duan Jiong argued that the Qiang could not be won over with kindness and would rebel again after surrendering. He proposed using 5,000 cavalry, 10,000 infantry, and 3,000 chariots to completely defeat them in two or three years. The emperor agreed. Duan Jiong fought 180 battles, beheading over 38,600 enemies and capturing over 427,500 animals, at a cost of 4.4 billion. He was granted a county marquis title. He later relied on eunuchs and unjustly killed several people. He served as Taiwei but committed suicide in prison after being implicated in a murder. The three men were collectively known as "Liangzhou Sanming."

