Chunk 0: 
original: 
王僧辩王僧辩，字君才，右卫将军神念之子也。
以天监中随父来奔。
起家为湘东王国左常侍。
王为丹阳尹，转府行参军。
王出守会稽，兼中兵参军事。
王为荆州，仍除中兵，在限内。
时武宁郡反，王命僧辩讨平之。
迁贞威将军、武宁太守。
寻迁振远将军、广平太守。
秩满，还为王府中录事，参军如故。
王被征为护军，僧辩兼府司马。
王为江州，仍除云骑将军司马，守湓城。
俄监安陆郡，无几而还。
寻为新蔡太守，犹带司马，将军如故。
王除荆州，为贞毅将军府谘议参军事，赐食千人，代柳仲礼为竟陵太守，改号雄信将军。
属侯景反，王命僧辩假节，总督舟师一万，兼粮馈赴援。
才至京都，宫城陷没，天子蒙尘。
僧辩与柳仲礼兄弟及赵伯超等，先屈膝于景，然后入朝。景悉收其军实，而厚加绥抚。
未几，遣僧辩归于竟陵，于是倍道兼行，西就世祖。
世祖承制，以僧辩为领军将军。
及荆、湘疑贰，军师失律，世祖又命僧辩及鲍泉统军讨之，分给兵粮，克日就道。
时僧辨以竟陵部下犹未尽来，意欲待集，然后上顿。
谓鲍泉曰： 我与君俱受命南讨，而军容若此，计将安之？
泉曰： 既禀庙算，驱率骁勇，事等沃雪，何所多虑。
僧辩曰： 不然。
君之所言故是，文士之常谈耳。
河东少有武干，兵刃又强，新破军师，养锐待敌，自非精兵一万，不足以制之。
我竟陵甲士，数经行阵，已遣召之，不久当及。
translation: 
Wang Sengbian, also known as Juncai, was the son of Youwei General Wang Shennian.
During the Tianjian period, Wang Sengbian came to join his father.
He was recruited from his family and served as the Zuo Changshi of the Xiangdong Kingdom.
King Xiangshu was appointed Danyang Yin, and Wang Sengbian was transferred to Fu Xing to join the army.
King Shu of Hunan was appointed as the prefect of Kuaiji, and Wang Sengbian also served as a soldier in the military.
King Xiangshu was appointed governor of Jingzhou, and Wang Sengbian was still appointed as a soldier in the army and held a confidential position.
At that time, Wuning County was in rebellion, and King Xiangdong ordered Wang Sengbian to attack and quell the rebellion.
Wang Sengbian was moved to the post of General Zhenwei and Prefect of Wuning.
Soon he was moved to the post of General Zhenyuan and Grand Administrator of Guangping.
After his term of office expired, Wang Sengbian returned to the Prince of Xiangshu and served as a recorder of affairs in the palace, and his position in the army remained unchanged.
The king of eastern Hunan was conscripted into the capital to serve as a military guard, and Wang Sengbian also served as the Sima of the palace.
The king of eastern Hunan was appointed governor of Jiangzhou, and Wang Sengbian was subsequently appointed as General Yunqi, Sima, and governor of Huancheng.
Soon he moved to oversee Anlu County, and returned to the palace not long after.
Soon he was appointed governor of Xincai, still holding the post of Sima, and his title of general remained unchanged.
King Shu of Xiang was appointed as the prefect of Jingzhou. Wang Sengbian consulted for General Zhenyi's office and joined the military. He was given food for a thousand people. He replaced Liu Zhongli as the prefect of Jingling and changed his title to General Xiongxin.
When Hou Jing rebelled, the king of eastern Hunan ordered Wang Sengbian to go on holiday. The governor sent 10,000 naval troops to aid the capital with food supplies.
When Monk Wang arrived at the capital, the palace was captured and the emperor was humiliated.
Wang Sengbian, Liu Zhongli brothers, Tang Bochao and others first surrendered to Hou Jing, and then entered the palace to see the emperor. Hou Jing confiscated all their weapons and food, and deeply comforted them.
Not long after, Hou Jing sent Wang Sengbian back to Jingling. Wang Sengbian then doubled his travels, traveling day and night, and went west to join Shizu.
Shizu followed the emperor's will and appointed Wang Sengbian as the leading general.
There was a rift between the governor of Jingzhou, King Xiangdong, and the governor of Xiangzhou, King Hedong. They were suspicious of each other, and the army could not be commanded in a unified manner. The emperor ordered Wang Sengbian and Bao Quan to lead the army to attack them, allocate enough military rations, and set a date for departure.
At that time, Wang Sengbian planned to wait for all of Jingling's men to gather before moving forward together because not all of Jingling's men had arrived.
Wang Sengbian said to Bao Quan: You and I accepted the order to march southward, but the army formation is so uneven. What are your plans?
Bao Quan said: Since we have accepted the imperial court's war plan and led our brave soldiers to kill the enemy, the situation is like pouring hot water on snow, so why should we worry more?
Monk Wang argued: What you said is wrong.
What you are saying is nothing more than a truism from scribes.
The King of Hedong had military talent when he was young, and his weapons and equipment were very strong. He had just defeated our army and was now recharging his strength, waiting for us to attack. Without ten thousand elite soldiers, it would not be enough to defeat them.
The Jingling soldiers under my leadership have experienced many battles. I have sent people to summon them and will arrive soon.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
虽期日有限，犹可重申，欲与卿共入言之，望相佐也。
泉曰： 成败之举，系此一行，迟速之宜，终当仰听。
世祖性严忌，微闻其言，以为迁延不肯去，稍已含怒。
及僧辩将入，谓泉曰： 我先发言，君可见系。
泉又许之。
及见世祖，世祖迎问曰： 卿已办乎？
何日当发？
僧辩具对，如向所言。
世祖大怒，按剑厉声曰： 卿惮行邪！
因起入内。
泉震怖失色，竟不敢言。
须臾，遣左右数十人收僧辩。
既至，谓曰： 卿拒命不行，是欲同贼，今唯有死耳。
僧辩对曰： 僧辩食禄既深，忧责实重，今日就戮，岂敢怀恨。但恨不见老母。
世祖因斫之，中其左髀，流血至地。
僧辩闷绝，久之方苏。
即送付廷尉，并收其子侄，并皆系之。
会岳阳王军袭江陵，人情搔扰，未知其备。世祖遣左右往狱，问计于僧辩，僧辩具陈方略，登即赦为城内都督。
俄而岳阳奔退，而鲍泉力不能克长沙，世祖乃命僧辩代之。
数泉以十罪，遣舍人罗重欢领斋仗三百人，与僧辩俱发。
既至，遣通泉云： 罗舍人被令，送王竟陵来。
泉甚愕然，顾左右曰： 得王竟陵助我经略，贼不足平。
俄而重欢赍令书先入，僧辩从斋仗继进，泉方拂席，坐而待之。
僧辩既入，背泉而坐，曰： 鲍郎，卿有罪，令旨使我鏁卿，勿以故意见待。
因语重欢出令，泉即下地，鏁于床侧。
僧辩仍部分将帅，并力攻围，遂平湘土。
还复领军将军。
translation: 
Although the confirmed date has arrived, the departure time can still be postponed. I want to go to the court with you to report this matter to the prince. I hope you can help me speak.
Bao Quan said: The success or failure of the matter all depends on whether the troops are sent out this time. Whether it is late or early, we should ultimately obey the prince's order.
Shidan was strict and suspicious by nature. He had secretly learned about their conversation, so he thought that they were delaying the trip and refused to set off, and he was getting angry.
When Wang Sengbian was about to enter the court, he said to Bao Xing: I will start talking first, and you can follow me.
Bao Quan agreed to him again.
They went to see Shizu, who greeted them and asked: Are you ready?
On what day will you depart?
Wang Sengbian told Shizu all what he had said before.
Shizu was very angry. He touched his sword and said sharply: "Are you afraid of sending troops?"
After saying that, he got up and entered the inner hall.
Bao Xing was so shocked and frightened that he did not dare to speak.
After a while, Shidan sent out ten followers to arrest Wang Sengfeng.
After Shidan came out on his own, he argued with Wang Seng: "You resisted the order and refused to set off, which means you want to be with the rebels. Now there is only one way to die."
Wang Sengbian replied: "Sengbian is well-paid by the imperial court and has a really heavy responsibility. He was killed today. How dare he feel any resentment. I just regret not seeing his mother."
Shizu then slashed Wang Sengbian with his sword and hit Wang Sengbian's left thigh, causing blood to flow to the ground.
Wang Sengbian fainted and did not wake up until a long time later.
Shizu then handed him over to the Tingwei. At the same time, he also arrested Wang Sengbian's nephew and imprisoned them all.
When the army of King Yueyang attacked Liao Dynasty, people were in a state of unrest and did not know how to defend themselves. Emperor Shizu sent his attendants to the prison to ask Wang Guanhuan about the method of defense. Wang Sengluan fully stated the strategy of defending against the enemy. Wang Sengnian was pardoned at that time and appointed as the governor of the city.
Soon King Yueyang was defeated, and Bao Quan besieged Changsha. He tried his best to attack Changsha but could not conquer it. The emperor ordered Wang Sengbian to replace Bao Quan.
Listing Bao Quan's ten crimes, he sent Luo Chonghuan, a member of the army, to lead 300 elite members of the Forbidden Army and set off with Wang Sengbian.
After they arrived at Bao Xing's place, they first sent someone to inform Bao Quan: "The Luoshe people have been ordered by the prince to send Wang Jingling."
Bao Quan was very surprised and said to his attendants: "With Wang Jingling's help in planning the war, the rebels will be vulnerable."
After a while, Luo Chonghuan entered Bao Xing's camp with Shizu's order, and Wang Tanluan led the imperial army after him. Bao Quan wiped the seats to greet them, and then sat down to wait for them to speak.
After Wang Sengbian entered, he sat down with his back to Bao Quan and said, "Bao Li, you are guilty. The prince ordered me to arrest you. Don't treat me with the same attitude as before."
He told Luo Chonghuan to bring out the prince's order, Bao Xing got down from the couch, and the imperial army tied up Bao Xing beside the couch.
Wang Sengbian then deployed his troops, deployed generals, and the entire army attacked the city together, thus pacifying Xiangzhou.
After returning, Wang Sengbian was appointed as the leading general.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
侯景浮江西寇，军次夏首。
僧辩为大都督，率巴州刺史淳于量、定州刺史杜龛、宜州刺史王琳、郴州刺史裴之横等，俱赴西阳。
军次巴陵，闻郢州已没，僧辩因据巴陵城。
世祖乃命罗州刺史徐嗣徽、武州刺史杜掞并会僧辩于巴陵。
景既陷郢城，兵众益广，徒党甚锐，将进寇荆州。
乃使伪仪同丁和统兵五千守江夏，大将宋子仙前驱一万造巴陵，景悉凶徒水步继进。
于是缘江戍逻，望风请服，贼拓逻至于隐矶。
僧辩悉上江渚米粮，并沉公私船于水。
及贼前锋次江口，僧辩乃分命众军，乘城固守，偃旗卧鼓，安若无人。
翌日，贼众济江，轻骑至城下，问： 城内是谁？
答曰： 是王领军。
贼曰： 语王领军，事势如此，何不早降？
僧辩使人答曰： 大军但向荆州，此城自当非碍。
僧辩百口在人掌握，岂得便降。
贼骑既去，俄尔又来，曰： 我王已至，王领军何为不出与王相见邪？
僧辩不答。
顷之，又执王珣等至于城下，珣为书诱说城内。
景帅船舰并集北寺，又分入港中，登岸治道，广设氈屋，耀军城东陇上，芟除草，开八道向城，遣五千兔头肉薄苦攻。
城内同时鼓噪，矢石雨下，杀贼既多，贼乃引退。世祖又命平北将军胡僧祐率兵下援僧辩。
是日，贼复攻巴陵，水步十处，鸣鼓吹脣，肉薄斫上。
城上放木掷火爨昚石，杀伤甚多。
午后贼退，乃更起长栅绕城，大列舸舰，以楼船攻水城西南角；又遣人渡洲岸，引牜羊柯推虾蟆车填緌，引障车临城，二日方止。
贼又于舰上竖木桔禋，聚茅置火，以烧水栅，风势不利，自焚而退。
既频战挫衄，贼帅任约又为陆法和所擒，景乃烧营夜遁，旋军夏首。
translation: 
Hou Jing led his army to invade west along the Liao Dynasty by boat, and the army was stationed in Xia Shou.
Wang Sengbian was appointed as the governor, and led Chun Yuliang, the governor of Bazhou, Du Gong, the governor of Dingzhou, Wang Lin, the governor of Yizhou, Pei Zhiheng, the governor of Chenzhou and others to rush to Xiyang, and the army was stationed in Baling.
Hearing that Yingzhou had been captured, Sengbian defended Baling City.
Shizu then ordered Xu Sihui, the governor of Luozhou, and Du Dian, the governor of Wuzhou, to join Sengbian in Baling.
After Hou Jing also captured Jiangxi, the number of soldiers increased and their morale was very strong, and they were about to attack Xingye.
So he sent Iuguan Yi and Ding He to lead 5,000 soldiers to guard the Red Star. General Song Zixian led 10,000 horses as the vanguard to go straight to Baling. Jiangxi Liang led all the rebels to follow the vanguard by land and water.
So the soldiers garrisoned along Liao asked to surrender when they heard the news. The rebels extended the patrol soldiers as far as Yinji.
Wang Sengbian transported all the rice and grain from Liaozhu ashore and sank all public and private ships into the water.
When the rebel forwards stationed at the mouth of the river, Wang Sengbian issued an order to the troops, asking them to climb up the city wall and hold on, and to stop their flags and drums, making them as quiet as if there was no one around.
The next day, the rebels crossed the river. Qingqi rode to the bottom of the city and asked the defenders: Who is commanding the army in the city?
The defender replied: "It's Wang Yuan's army."
The rebels said: Tell the king to lead the army, the situation has developed like this, why didn't you surrender earlier?
Wang Jiuluan sent someone to reply: Even if your army goes straight to Jingzhou, sending a city will naturally not be an obstacle to you.
I, Wang Sengbian, have more than a hundred members under the control of others. How can I surrender at will?
After the rebel cavalry left, they came back soon and said: Our prince is already here. Why doesn't the king lead the army out to meet the prince?
Wang Sengbian did not answer.
After a while, the rebels arrived at the city with Wang Xi and others who were imprisoned by them. Wang Xi wrote a letter to persuade the defenders in the city to surrender.
Hou Jing led all the ships to gather at the North Temple, and then sailed into the river branch separately. The sergeants went ashore to clear the roads, set up many felt tents, and showed off their military power on the city Shulong. They shoveled weeds and opened eight roads directly to Baling City. He also sent 5,000 death squads to attack the city wall in hand-to-hand combat.
The defenders in the city beat drums and shouted at the same time, arrows and stones rained down, killing many rebels, and then the rebels retreated. Shizu ordered Pingbei General Qu Sengku to lead his troops down the river to reinforce Wang Sengbian.
On this day, the rebels attacked Baling again. The sailors and infantry attacked from ten places, beating drums, blowing whistles, fighting hand-to-hand, and marching to the city while cutting.
Rolling logs were thrown on the city, and fire and radium stones were thrown, killing many rebels.
In the afternoon, the rebels retreated, so they built another long fence around Baling City, deployed warships on a large scale, and attacked the southwest corner of the water city with tower boats. They also sent people to cross the river and go ashore. They used mooring stakes and pushed a toad cart to fill the moat. They pushed a barrier cart that could block the arrows and stones until they reached the city. The attack lasted two days before stopping.
The rebels also erected wooden tangerines on the ship, piled thatch and set fire to it to burn the defenders' water booms. However, because the wind direction was not favorable to the rebels, they burned their own ship instead and were forced to retreat.
The rebels repeatedly attacked and were defeated. The rebel leader Yu Dian was captured by Lu Yunsu again. He burned down the camp and escaped at night, leading his army back to Xia Shou.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
世祖策勋行赏，以僧辩为征东将军、开府仪同三司、江州策史，封长宁县公。
于是世祖命僧辩即率巴陵诸军，沿流讨景。
师次郢城，步攻鲁山。
鲁山城主支化仁，景之骑将也，率其党力战，众军大破之，化仁乃降。
僧辩仍督诸军渡江攻郢，即入罗城。
宋子仙蚁聚金城拒守，攻之未克。
子仙使其党时灵护率众三千，开门出战，僧辩又大破之，生擒灵护，斩首千级。
子仙众退据仓门，带江阻险，众军攻之，频战不克。
景既闻鲁山已没，郢镇复失罗城，乃率余众倍道归建业。
子仙等困蹙，计无所之，乞输郢城，身还就景。
僧辩伪许之，命给船百艘，以老其意。
子仙谓为信然，浮舟将发，僧辩命杜龛率精勇千人，攀堞而上，同时鼓噪，掩至仓门。
水军主宋遥率楼船，暗江四面云合；子仙行战行走，至于白杨浦，乃大破之，生擒子仙送江陵。
即率诸军进师九水。
贼伪仪同范希荣、卢晖略尚据湓城，及僧辩军至，希荣等因挟江州刺史临城公弃城奔走。
世祖加僧辩侍中、尚书令、征东大将军，给鼓吹一部。
仍令僧辩且顿江州，须众军齐集，得时更进。
顷之，世祖命江州众军悉同大举，僧辩乃表皇帝凶问，告于江陵。
仍率大将百余人，连名劝世祖即位；将欲进军，又重奉表。
虽未见从，并蒙优答。
事见本纪。
僧辩于是发自江州，直指建业，乃先命南兗州刺史侯瑱率锐卒轻舸，袭南陵、鹊头等戍，至即克之。
先是，陈霸先率众五万，出自南江，前军五千，行至湓口。
霸先倜傥多谋策，名盖僧辩，僧辩畏之。
既至湓口，与僧辩会于白茅洲，登坛盟誓。
translation: 
The ancestors discussed meritorious deeds and rewarded him, and ordered Wang Sengbian to be the general of the East Conquest, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, the governor of Jiangzhou, and the title of Duke of Changning County.
So Shizu ordered Wang Sengbian to immediately lead all the troops in Baling and go down the river to conquer Hou Jingliang.
The army was stationed in Yingcheng and sent infantry to attack Lushan.
Zhi Huaren, the chief defender of Lushan City, was a cavalry officer under Hou Jing. He led his followers to fight with all their strength, but was still severely defeated by Wang Sengbian's army, so Zhi Huaren surrendered.
Wang Sengbian then led various troops to cross the river to attack Ying, and immediately entered Ying's outer city.
Song Zixian gathered all his men and horses to defend the inner city, but Wang Sengbian attacked the city but failed to capture it.
Song Zixian sent his subordinate Tong Xihu to lead 3,000 troops to open the city gate and go out to fight. Wang Sengbian defeated the rebels who left the city, captured Di Xihu alive, and killed more than a thousand people.
Sai Zixian led his army to retreat and defend, relying on the natural dangers to defend around Liao. Wang Mengbiao led his troops to attack repeatedly but failed to conquer it.
Hou Jing heard the news that Lushan had been captured and that the outer city of Ying, an important town, had been lost, so he led the remaining troops to return to Jianye day and night.
Song Zixian and others were in a difficult situation and had nothing to do, so they asked Wang Sengbian to hand over Yingcheng and let him lead his troops back to Hou Jing.
Wang Sengbian pretended to agree to them and ordered more than a hundred ships to be provided to the rebels, thereby paralyzing the rebels.
Song Zixian thought that Wang Sengbian was sincere in letting them go, and when the boat was about to set off, Wang Sengbian ordered Du Chong to lead a thousand capable warriors, climb the city wall, beat drums and shout at the same time, and suddenly attack the warehouse gate.
He ordered Song Yao, the leader of the naval force, to lead a large ship and secretly surrounded Song Zixian's fleet on the river from all sides. Song Zixian fled while fighting. When they arrived at Baiyangpu, Wang Sengbian's army defeated Song Zixian's rebels, captured Song Zixian alive, and sent him to Jiangling.
Wang Sengbian immediately led various armies to march into Jiushui.
The rebels and puppet officials, Fan Xirong and Lu Huilue, still occupied Huancheng. When Wang Sengbian and his troops arrived, Fan Xirong and others took Jiangzhou Governor Lincheng Gong hostage and fled the city.
Shizu gave Wang Sengbian additional official positions such as Shizhong, Shangshu Ling, and General of the Eastern Conquest, and also gave him the Department of Advocacy.
Then he ordered Wang Sengbian to temporarily garrison Jiangzhou until all the troops were concentrated and he got the opportunity before attacking.
Soon, Shizu ordered people from all walks of life in Jiangzhou to launch a massive attack. Wang Sengbian then announced the bad news of the emperor's death and reported the bad news to Shizu in Jiangling.
So he led more than a hundred generals to jointly write a letter to Shizu, urging Shizu to take the throne as emperor. When he was about to march against Hou Jing, he wrote again to persuade him to advance.
Although Shizu did not listen, he received a graceful reply from Shizu.
The incident was recorded in the "Benji" of Emperor Shizu Xiaoyuan.
Wang Sengbian then set out from Jiangzhou and aimed directly at Jianye. He first ordered Hou Tian, ​​the governor of Nanyanzhou, to lead his elite soldiers in a light fast boat to attack Nanling, Quetou and other garrison posts. Wherever they went, they immediately captured them.
Prior to this, Chen Baxian led 50,000 men and set out from Nanjiang, sending 5,000 men as the vanguard and had already arrived at Fankou.
Chen Baxian had outstanding talents and was good at strategy. His reputation surpassed that of Wang Sengbian, and Wang Sengbian respected him.
After Chen Baxian arrived at Fankou, he met Wang Sengbian at Baimaozhou. The two went to the altar and swore an oath of alliance. Chen Baxian wrote an alliance article saying:


Chunk 4: 
original: 
霸先为其文曰： 贼臣侯景，凶羯小胡，逆天无状，构造奸恶；违背我恩义，破掠我国家，毒害我生民，移毁我社庙。
我高祖武皇帝灵圣聪明，光宅天下，劬劳兆庶，亭育万民，如我考妣，五十所载。
哀景以穷见归，全景将戮之首，置景要害之地，崇景非次之荣。
我高祖于景何薄？
我百姓于景何怨？
而景长戟强弩，陵蹙朝廷，锯牙郊甸，残食含灵。刳肝斫趾，不曈其快；曝骨焚尸，不谓为酷。
高祖菲食卑宫，春秋九十，屈志凝威，愤终贼手。
大行皇帝温严恭默，丕守鸿名，于景何有，复加忍毒。
皇枝涘抱已上，缌功以还，穷刀极俎，既屠且会。
岂有率土之滨，谓为王臣，食人之禾，饮人之水，忍闻此痛，而不悼心？
况臣僧辩、臣霸先等，荷称国籓湘东王臣绎泣血衔哀之寄，摩顶至足之恩，世受先朝之德，身当将帅之任；而不能沥胆抽肠，共诛奸逆，雪天地之痛，报君父之仇，则不可以禀灵含识，戴天履地！
今日相国至孝玄感，灵武斯发，已破贼徒，获其元帅，止余景身，尚在京邑。
臣僧辩与臣霸先协和将帅，同心共契，必诛凶竖，尊奉相国，嗣膺鸿业，以主郊祭。
前途若有一功，获一赏，臣僧辩等不推己让物，先身帅众，则天地宗庙百神之灵，共诛共责。
臣僧辩、臣霸先同心共事，不相欺负，若有违戾，明神殛之。
于是升坛歃血，共读盟文，皆泪下沾襟，辞色慷慨。
translation: 
The thief Hou Jing was originally a cruel Jie man. He violated the laws of heaven and was not virtuous. He did all kinds of evil things. He betrayed the kindness of our court, invaded and plundered our country, killed our people, and destroyed our Sheji ancestral temple.
Our great ancestor, Emperor Wu, was endowed with the aura of the gods of heaven and earth. He was wise and wise, and had a wide influence in the world. Just like our parents, he worked hard day and night to raise hundreds of millions of people for more than fifty years.
The emperor pitied Hou Jing for coming to our court in embarrassment, saved Hou Jing's life that should have been executed, placed Hou Jing in a crucial position, and gave Hou Jing extraordinary and special honor.
Why did my great ancestor, Emperor Gaozu, ever treat Hou Jing poorly?
What hatred do we people have against Hou Jing?
But Hou Jing relied on his halberd and powerful crossbow to humiliate and force the imperial court. He used saw-like teeth to eat away at the land in my suburbs and mutilated my people. Digging out their livers and cutting off their toes was not enough to satisfy his desire to do harm. Discarding the corpses in the wild or even burning them was not the most cruel method.
Emperor Gaozu was ninety years old, but he was forced to live in a humble house and eat meager and poor food. His ambition was suppressed and his imperial power was devalued. He eventually died in the hands of traitors with hatred.
Emperor Daxing was gentle and dignified, kept silent and maintained his reputation as a saint. However, if he had any grudge against Hou Jing, he resorted to all kinds of cruel methods against him.
They tried their best to kill and kill the royal concubines in their infancy, the royal relatives within the fifth robe, and the gills and great powers.
We live within the borders of the country. As subjects of the imperial court, we eat the imperial salary and bathe in the emperor's nectar. How can we not feel sad and mournful when we hear such tragic facts?
What's more, I, the king Ji Luan, I Su Lingxuan and others, have received great trust from the country's vassals and weeping blood, and have done us a great favor that we can hardly repay. We have also received the kindness of the previous dynasty from generation to generation, and since As a general, if you cannot work with all your heart and soul to kill traitors and traitors, clear up the grievances of the royal family, and avenge your king and father, you cannot be regarded as a person who is endowed with the aura of heaven and earth and lives between heaven and earth.
Today the prime minister’s filial piety moved heaven. The brave and superhuman army had just set off, and had already defeated the rebel army and captured the rebel marshal, leaving only Hou Jing alone in the capital.
Chen Baxian, the minister, the king, the monk, and the minister, united the generals and worked together to kill the ferocious traitors, respect the prime minister, let him inherit the great cause of the country, and preside over the rituals of worshiping heaven and ancestors.
In the future, if there is a meritorious service and a reward, and if the ministers, kings, monks, and others cannot set an example and recommend themselves to others, then the gods of the heaven and earth, the ancestral temples, and the various gods will all be punished together.
The ministers, kings, monks, and ministers work together and do not deceive each other. If we violate our oath, let the gods of heaven and earth punish us.
So they went up to the earth altar to make an alliance in blood, and read the alliance article aloud together. When they flattered the alliance article, they shed tears like rain, which wetted their clothes, and their words and expressions were passionate and generous.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
及王师次于南洲，贼帅侯子鉴等率步骑万余人于岸挑战，又以鸟了千艘并载士，两边悉八十棹，棹手皆越人，去来趣袭，捷过风电。
僧辩乃麾细船，皆令退缩，悉使大舰夹泊两岸。
贼谓水军欲退，争出趋之，众军乃棹大舰，截其归路，鼓噪大呼，合战中江，贼悉赴水。
僧辩即督诸军沿流而下，进军于石头之斗城，作连营以逼贼。
贼乃横岭上筑五城拒守，侯景自出，与王师大战于石头城北。
霸先谓僧辩曰： 丑虏游魂，贯盈已稔，逋诛送死，欲为一决。我众贼寡，且分其势。
即遣强弩二千张，攻贼西面两城，仍使结阵以当贼。僧辩在后麾军而进，复大破之。
卢晖略闻景战败，以石头城降，僧辩引军入据之。
景之退也，北走硃方，于是景散兵走告僧辩，僧辩令众将入据台城。
其夜，军人采梠失火，烧太极殿及东西堂等。
时军人卤掠京邑，剥剔士庶，民为其执缚者，衵衣不免。
尽驱逼居民以求购赎，自石头至于东城，缘淮号叫之声，震响京邑，于是百姓失望。
僧辩命侯瑱、裴之横率精甲五千，东入讨景。
僧辩收贼党王伟等二十余人，送于江陵。
伪行台赵伯超自吴松江降于侯瑱，瑱时送至僧辩。僧辩谓伯超曰： 赵公，卿荷国重恩，遂复同逆。
今日之事，将欲何如？
因命送江陵。
伯超既出，僧辩顾坐客曰： 朝廷昔唯知有赵伯超耳，岂识王僧辩？
社稷既倾，为我所复；人之兴废，亦复何常。
宾客皆前称叹功德。
僧辩瞿然，乃谬答曰： 此乃圣上之威德，群帅之用命。
老夫虽滥居戎首，何力之有焉？
translation: 
When the imperial troops who were attacking Hou Jing were stationed in Nanzhou, the rebel leader Hou Zijian and others led more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry to challenge on the shore. They also used a thousand long and long lantern boats filled with soldiers. There were 80 oars on both sides of the boats. The sailors were all Vietnamese. The boats came and went quickly and attacked suddenly, faster than the wind and lightning.
Wang Sengbian then commanded the small boats and ordered them all to retreat, and also ordered the large ships to anchor on both sides of the river.
The rebels thought that Wang Sengbian's navy wanted to retreat, so they all rushed out to attack. Wang Sengbian's navy then rowed a large ship to cut off the return route of the rebel boats. They beat drums and shouted loudly, and fought with the rebel boats in the middle of the river. The rebels all jumped into the water to escape.
Wang Sengbian immediately led various armies down the river and advanced to the Battle of Stones, where he built a company camp to intimidate the rebels.
The rebels then built five cities on the Henglie Ridge to resist the defence. Hou Jing personally went out to fight with the imperial army in the north of Stone City.
Chen Baxian said to Wang Sengluan: The rebels are like wandering ghosts, full of evil. Now if they want to escape the fate of annihilation and fight to the death, our army is large and the rebels are small. We should disperse their forces and defeat them one by one.
They sent soldiers with 2,000 strong crossbows to attack the two cities to the west of the rebels, and then ordered some sergeants to form a formation to fight the rebels. Wang Jianya commanded the army to attack from behind, and defeated the rebels.
When Lu Huilue heard that Hou Jing was defeated, he led Shitou City to surrender. Wang Sengbian led the army to occupy Shitou City.
Hou Jing retreated and fled north toward Zhu Fang. At that time, Hua Liang's fleeing soldiers ran to report the news to Wang Sengbian, who ordered his generals to occupy the platform.
That night, the sergeant caused a fire while cooking the wild grains he had picked up, and burned down the main hammer, the east and west halls, and other places.
At that time, soldiers were plundering and plundering the people in the capital. Those captured by them had their underwear stripped off.
They also forced the people to redeem them with money. From Shitou to Dongqiu, the sound of Jin Cheng's howl shook the capital, and the people were disappointed with the imperial army.
Wang Sengbian ordered Hou Suo and Pei Zhiheng to lead five thousand elite troops to attack Hou Jing.
Wang Sengbian captured more than 20 rebel party members Wang Wei and others and escorted them to Jiangling.
Hou Jing's pseudo-officer Tong Bochao surrendered to Baotian in Wusongjiang. Hou Tian immediately escorted Tong Bochao to Wang Sengbian. Wang Sengbian said to Tong Bochao: Mr. Zhao, you have received great favor from the country, but you have joined the traitors.
What are you going to do in this situation today?
Wang Sengbian ordered people to escort Zhao Bochao.
After Zhu Xunchao left, Wang Tan looked around at the guests present and said: In the past, the imperial court only knew about Zhao Bochao, but it didn't know about Wang Sengbian.
The country has been overthrown, and now I have revived it. There is no lasting change in the rise and fall of people.
All the guests present came forward to praise Wang Sengbian's merits.
Wang Sengbian was secretly surprised, so he falsely replied: This is because the Holy One has great power and the generals act according to orders.
I am just playing tricks, even though I am in the position of the head coach, what credit do I get?


Chunk 6: 
original: 
于是逆寇悉平，京都克定。
世祖即帝位，以僧辩功，进授镇卫将军、司徒，加班剑二十人，改封永宁郡公，食邑五千户，侍中、尚书令、鼓吹并如故。
是后湘州贼陆纳等攻破衡州刺史丁道贵于渌口，尽收其军实；李洪雅又自零陵率众出空灵滩，称助讨纳。
朝廷未达其心，深以为虑，乃遣中书舍人罗重欢征僧辩上就骠骑将军宜豊侯循南征。
僧辩因督杜掞等众军，发于建业，师次巴陵。
诏僧辩为都督东上诸军事，霸先为都督西上诸军事。
先时霸先让都督于僧辩，僧辩不受，故世祖分为东西都督，而俱南讨焉。
时纳等下据车轮，夹岸为城，前断水势，士卒骁猛，皆百战之余。僧辩惮之，不与轻进，于是稍作连城以逼贼。
贼见不敢交锋，并怀懈怠。
僧辩因其无备，命诸军水步攻之，亲执旗鼓，以诫进止。
于是诸军竞出，大战于车轮，与骠骑循并力苦攻，陷其二城。
贼大败，步走归保长沙，驱逼居民，入城拒守。
僧辩追蹑，乃命筑垒围之，悉令诸军广建围栅，僧辩出坐垄上而自临视。
贼望，识僧辩，知不设备，贼党吴藏、李贤明等乃率锐卒千人，开门掩出，蒙楯直进，径趋僧辩。
时杜掞、杜龛并侍左右，带甲卫者止百余人，因下遣人与贼交战。
李贤明乘铠马，从者十骑，大呼冲突，僧辩尚据胡床，不为之动。于是指挥勇敢，遂获贤明，因即斩之。
贼乃退归城内。
初，陆纳阻兵内逆，以王琳为辞，云 朝廷若放王琳，纳等自当降伏 。
于时众军并进，未之许也。
而武陵王拥众上流，内外骇惧，世祖乃遣琳和解之。
translation: 
At this time, all the rebels were pacified and eliminated, the capital was captured, and the situation stabilized.
When the emperor ascended the throne, because of Wang Sengbian's contribution to suppressing the rebellion, he was awarded the title of General of the Town Guard and Situ, with twenty swordsmen working overtime, and was changed to the title of Yongning County Duke, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
After that, Xiangzhou thief Lu Na and others attacked Lukou and defeated Hengzhou governor Ding Daogui and confiscated all his weapons and equipment. Li Hongya led his army from Lingling to Konglingtan, claiming to help the court conquer Lu Na.
The imperial court did not understand his true intentions and was deeply worried about this matter, so he sent Luo Chonghuan, a member of Zhongshushe, to recruit Wang Sengbian to go up the river to the Hussars General Yifeng Hou Xiao Xun and lead his army to the south.
Wang Sengbian supervised Du Xun and other people from all walks of life, starting from Jianye.
The army was stationed in Baling. The emperor went down to Shao and ordered Wang Sengbian to be the commander-in-chief of Shushang's military affairs, and Chen Baxian to be the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in the west.
Before the dispatch, Chen Baxian had offered the position of governor to Wang Sengbian, but Wang Sengbian did not accept it, so Shizu appointed two people as governors of the east and west respectively, and at the same time led his army to conquer the south.
At that time, Lu Na and others advanced downstream, occupied the wheel, and built a city on both sides. The water level in front was very different and the situation was dangerous. The soldiers were all brave and experienced in hundreds of battles. Wang Sengbian was afraid of them and did not dare to attack rashly. So he gradually built the city and connected the cities together, using this method to surround Lu Na's rebel army.
When the rebels saw that the imperial army did not dare to fight, they all became lazy.
Wang Sengbian took advantage of their unpreparedness and ordered all troops to attack from both land and water. Wang Sengbian personally held flags and drums to direct the entire army's advance and retreat.
So people from all walks of life rushed out to attack, and they fought with Lu Na's rebel army in a wheel battle. Wang Sengbian and the hussar general Xiao Xun worked together to attack and captured two cities of the rebel army.
The rebel army was defeated and fled overland to defend Changsha. They drove all the residents into the city and held it firmly.
Wang Sengbian followed and pursued them until they reached Changsha, whereupon he ordered his sergeants to build a fortification to surround Changsha. He also ordered all armies to build long fences to surround the rebels. Wang Sengbian came out of the formation and sat on a mound to personally supervise the inspection.
The rebel army saw Wang Sengbian from a distance and knew that the imperial army had no preset defense, so the rebel army Wu Zang, Li Xianming and others led a thousand elite soldiers, opened the city gate, suddenly rushed out, held up their shields and charged straight towards Wang Sengbian.
At that time, both Du Ze and Du Yu were accompanying Wang Sengbian. There were only more than a hundred armed guards, so they went down to the mound to send people to fight with the rebels.
Li Xianming rode a horse wearing armor and led ten cavalry, shouting loudly to charge left and right. Wang Sengbian still sat on the couch and was not disturbed by the fierce flames of the rebel army. At this time, he still commanded calmly and with extraordinary courage. He finally captured Li Xianming and beheaded him immediately.
The bandit army then retreated into the city.
When Lu Na relied on the army to stage a rebellion, he used Wang Lin as an excuse, saying that if the court released Wang Lin, Lu Na and others would naturally surrender.
At that time, various armies were attacking at the same time, so they did not agree to Lu Na's conditions.
However, King Wuling led the army to occupy the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, and everyone inside and outside the court was frightened. The emperor then released Wang Lin and quelled Lu Na's rebellion.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
至是，湘州平。
僧辩旋于江陵，因被诏会众军西讨，督舟师二万，舆驾出天居寺饯行。
俄而武陵败绩，僧辩自枝江班师于江陵，旋镇建业。
是月，居少时，复回江陵。
齐主高洋遣郭元建率众二万，大列舟舰于合肥，将谋袭建业，又遣其大将邢景远、步六汗萨、东方老等率众继之。
时陈霸先镇建康，既闻此事，驰报江陵。世祖即诏僧辩次于姑孰，即留镇焉。
先命豫州刺史侯瑱率精甲三千人筑垒于东关，以拒北寇；征吴郡太守张彪、吴兴太守裴之横会瑱于关；因与北军战，大败之，僧辩率众军振旅于建业。
承圣三年二月甲辰，诏曰： 赞俊遂贤，称于秦典；自上安下，闻之汉制。
所以仰协台曜，俯佐弘图。
使持节、侍中、司徒、尚书令、都督扬、南徐、东扬三州诸军事、镇卫将军、扬州刺史、永宁郡开国公僧辩，器宇凝深，风格详远，行为士则，言表身文，学贯九流，武该七略。
顷岁征讨，自西徂东；师不疲劳，民无怨讟；王业艰难，实兼夷险。宜其燮此中台，膺兹上将；寄之经野，匡我朝猷。
加太尉、车骑大将军，余悉如故。
顷之，丁母太夫人忧，世祖遣侍中谒者监护丧事，策谥曰贞敬太夫人。
夫人姓魏氏。
神念以天监初董率徒众据东关，退保合肥漅湖西，因娶以为室，生僧辩。
性甚安和，善于绥接，家门内外，莫不怀之。
初，僧辩下狱，夫人流泪徒行，将入谢罪，世祖不与相见。
时贞惠世子有宠于世祖，军国大事多关领焉。
夫人诣阁，自陈无训，涕泗呜咽，众并怜之。
及僧辩免出，夫人深相责励，辞色俱严，云： 人之事君，惟须忠烈，非但保祐当世，亦乃庆流子孙。
及僧辩克复旧京，功盖天下，夫人恒自谦损，不以富贵骄物。朝野咸共称之，谓为明哲妇人也。
及既薨殒，甚见愍悼。
且以僧辩勋业隆重，故丧礼加焉。
灵柩将归建康，又遣谒者至舟渚吊祭。
命尚书左仆射王裒为其文曰： 维尔世基武子，族懋阳元，金相比映，玉德齐温。
translation: 
By this time, Xiangzhou was pacified.
Wang Sengbian led the army back from Jiangling, and then accepted the order to gather all the people and horses to march westward for the expedition, and commanded 20,000 naval troops. The emperor personally went to Tianju Temple to bid farewell to the soldiers who went on the expedition.
Soon after King Wuling was defeated, Wang Sengbian returned to Jiangling from Zhijiang, and soon returned to guard Jianye.
This month, Wang Sengbian stayed in Jianye for a short time before returning to Jiangling.
Gaoyang, the leader of Qi, sent Guo Yuanjian to lead 20,000 troops and gathered many ships in Hefei to attack Jianye. He also sent his generals Xing Jingyuan, Bu Dahansa, Dongfang Lao and others to lead the army to succeed Guo Yuanjian.
At that time, Chen Baxian was guarding Jiankang. After hearing the news of the dispatch, he immediately sent people on horseback to report to Jiangling. Emperor Shizu immediately ordered Wang Sengbian to garrison Gushu, and he immediately stayed there to guard.
First, he ordered Hou Ti, the governor of Yuzhou, to lead 3,000 elite troops to build a fortress at Dongguan to resist the invasion of northern enemies. He also mobilized Zhang Biao, the governor of Wu County, and Pei Zhihengyu, the governor of Wuxing, and Hou Suo to gather in Dongguan. They fought with the Qi army there and defeated the Qi army. Wang Sengbian led the entire army to Jianye.
On the day of Jiachen in the third month of the third year of Chengsheng, the emperor went down to Shao and said: Recommending talented and virtuous people has been recorded in the Qin Code; those who are above and the people who are below can be understood in the desert system.
This is a way to harmonize the ministers of the imperial court, assist the emperor, and achieve great goals.
The envoys Chijie, Shizhong, Situ, Shangshuling, governors of Yangnan, Xudong, and Yangzhou's three states, generals of town guards, governors of Yangzhou, and the founding prince of Yongning County, Sengbian, have a far-sighted mind, a calm and high-speed demeanor, and their actions have become a model for scholars.
In recent years, he has led troops to conquer from the west to Shu. The army is not tired and the people have no complaints. The king's career is difficult, and it is both smooth and dangerous. He should be placed in the middle to assume the task of coordinating the ministers of the DPRK and China, assume the responsibility of a general, entrust him with the important task of managing state affairs, and help plan the strategy of the court.
Wang Sengbian was granted the title of Taiwei and General of Chariots and Cavalry, and all other positions remained unchanged.
Not long after, Wang Sengbian encountered the funeral of his mother, the wife of the wife. Shizu sent his attendants to supervise the funeral, and gave Mi the title of Mrs. Zhenjing in a policy letter.
Mrs. Tai's surname is Wei.
In the early years of Tianjian, Wang Shennian led his soldiers to occupy Dongguan and retreated to the west of Hefei Zhuhu Lake. At that time, he married the Tai Fu and gave birth to Wang Sengbian.
The Dowager had a stable and gentle nature, and was good at soothing and socializing. Everyone in the family missed her.
When Wang Sengbian was arrested and imprisoned, Mrs. Tai walked to Shizu's government office in tears. She was about to go in to ask for forgiveness from Shizu, but Shizu refused to see her.
At that time, Crown Prince Jeonghye was favored by the emperor, and Crown Prince Jeonghye participated in and took charge of many major military and state affairs.
When Mrs. Tai went to Prince Zhenhui's pavilion, she complained about her lack of tutoring. She burst into tears and sobbed while she was talking. Everyone sympathized with her.
When Wang Sengbian was pardoned and released from prison, the wife scolded him severely and encouraged him deeply, her words and expressions were very stern. The lady said: People who serve the king must be loyal and upright. This will not only protect their own generation, but also spread their fortune to future generations.
When Wang Sengbian conquered the capital and achieved great success in the world, Mrs. Tai often gave in humbly and did not treat others based on her wealth. People in the government and the public alike praised her and called her a wise woman.
After the death of Mrs. Tai, many people mourned her.
Moreover, because Wang Sengbian had great merit and high official rank, the funeral ceremony for the wife was more than a normal ceremony.
When the coffin was about to be transported back to Jiankang, the emperor sent his visitors to pay homage to the river bank next to the ship carrying the coffin. He ordered Minister Zuopushe and Wang Ai to write a memorial text saying:
Your family lineage is based on Wang Wuzi, and your family is prosperous in Wei Yangyuan. Your quality can shine with gold, and your virtue can be as gentle as jade.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
既称女则，兼循妇言。
书图镜览，辞章讨论。
教贻俎豆，训及平原。
楚发将兵，孟轲成德。尽忠资敬，自家刑国。
显允其仪，惟民之则。
反命师旅，既修我戎；补兹衮职，奄有龟、蒙。
母由子贵，亶尔斯崇；嘉命允集，宠章所隆。
居高能降，处贵思冲；庆资善始，荣兼令终。
崦嵫既夕，蒹葭早秋；奔驷难返，冲涛讵留。
背龙门而西顾，过夏首而东浮；越三宫之遐岳，经三江之派流。
郁郁增岭，浮云蔽亏；滔滔江、汉，逝者如斯。
铭旌故旐，宇毁遗碑。
即虚舟而设奠，想徂魂之有知。
呜呼哀哉！
其年十月，西魏相宇文黑泰遣兵及岳阳王众合五万，将袭江陵。世祖遣主书李膺征僧辩于建业，为大都督、荆州刺史。
别敕僧辩云： 黑泰背盟，忽便举斧。
国家猛将，多在下流；荆陕之众，悉非劲勇。
公宜率貔虎，星言就路，倍道兼行，赴倒悬也。
僧辩因命豫州刺史侯瑱等为前军，兗州刺史杜僧明等为后军。
处分既毕，乃谓膺云： 泰兵骁猛，难与争锐，众军若集，吾便直指汉江，截其后路。
凡千里馈粮，尚有饥色，况贼越数千里者乎？
此孙膑克庞涓时也。
俄而京城陷没，宫车晏驾。
translation: 
It is not only in line with women's ethics, but also follows women's words.
You are proficient in writing and drawing pictures, reading classics, composing poems and compositions, and discussing the meaning of scriptures.
You use Confucian etiquette to educate your descendants, just like Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty's grandmother Pingyuan Jun did.
The children you train will have the ability of Chu Fa to lead troops and the virtues of Meng Ke. They will respect the king like their father and be loyal to them. They will start from home and extend to serving the country.
You are a model of integrity and a role model for the people.
Your children will command the imperial army, organize the country's defense, fill the posts of the three princes, and occupy the land of Gui and Meng.
Mother is noble because her son is noble. Your status increases day by day. Orders of praise from the court come time and time again, and the ceremonial gowns you award are even more noble.
But if you are in a high position, you can demean yourself, and if you are in a distinguished position, you will be humble and indifferent. The happiness of the family is obtained from a good beginning, and the glory can last a lifetime until a good end.
Although time has come to dusk, the mother model that makes people miss her has withered prematurely. The galloping horses can't turn back, and the rushing waves can't stop it.
I turned my back to Longmen and looked west. The coffin had just passed the summer season and turned eastward. I crossed the Three Palaces and looked towards the mountains. My longing floated with the water of the Three Rivers.
Layers of mountains and heavy clouds blocked my sight. I only felt that the passing people were like the endless rivers and desert water, never to return.
Your glorious deeds will be written on the inscription, and a monument will be built for you in the world to replace the ancient monument.
I set up a wine ceremony in front of the empty ship. I hope the wandering soul in the distance can understand my thoughts.
Alas!
In October of that year, Yuwen Heitai, the prime minister of the Western Wei Dynasty, sent troops to join King Yueyang's army, totaling 50,000 people, to attack Jiangling. Shizu sent his secretary Li Ying to Jianye to recruit Wang Sengbian and appointed him as the governor and governor of Jingzhou.
Shizu issued another order to warn Wang Sengbian: Yuwen Heitai betrayed the covenant and suddenly came to attack with swords and axes.
Most of the country's strong generals are found in the lower reaches of the Yangtze River, and the troops in Jing and Shanxi are not elite troops.
You should lead an elite force as brave as a tiger, set out at starry night, and travel day and night to Jiangling to rescue the hanging crisis.
Wang Sengbian ordered the governor of Yuzhou, Hou Tian, ​​and others to be the vanguard force, and the governor of Yanzhou, Du Sengming, and others to be the follow-up force.
After the arrangement was completed, Wang Sengbian said to Li Ying: Yuwen Heitai's soldiers are brave and fierce. It is difficult for us to compete with them. If the troops from all walks of life gather together, I will lead the army directly towards Mojiang and cut off their retreat.
Whenever we fight and transport food from thousands of miles away, the soldiers will look hungry because they don't have enough to eat. How much more will the rebel army cross thousands of miles to attack us?
Now is the same time as Sun Bin defeated Pang Juan.
Soon the capital was captured and the emperor died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
及敬帝初即梁主位，僧辩预树立之功，承制进骠骑大将军、中书监、都督中外诸军事、录尚书，与陈霸先参谋讨伐。
时齐主高洋又欲纳贞阳侯渊明以为梁嗣，因与僧辩书曰： 梁国不造，祸难相仍，侯景倾荡建业，武陵弯弓巴、汉。
卿志格玄穹，精贯白日，戮力齐心，芟夷逆丑。
凡在有情，莫不嗟尚；况我邻国，缉事言前。
而西寇承间，复相掩袭。梁主不能固守江陵，殒身宗祐。王师未及，便已降败；士民小大，皆毕寇虏。
乃眷南顾，愤叹盈怀。卿臣子之情，念当鲠裂。
如闻权立枝子，号令江阴，年甫十余，极为冲藐；梁衅未已，负荷谅难。
祭则卫君，政由甯氏；干弱枝强，终古所忌。
朕以天下为家，大道济物。
以梁国沦灭，有怀旧好，存亡拯坠，义在今辰，扶危嗣事，非长伊德。
彼贞阳侯，梁武犹子，长沙之胤，以年以望，堪保金陵，故置为梁主，纳于彼国。
便诏上党王涣总摄群将，扶送江表，雷动风驰，助扫冤逆。
清河王岳，前救荆城，军度安陆，既不相及，愤惋良深。
恐及西寇乘流，复蹑江左。今转次汉口，与陆居士相会。
卿宜协我良规，厉彼群帅，部分舟舻，迎接今王，鸠勒劲勇，并心一力。
西羌乌合，本非勍寇，直是湘东怯弱，致此沦胥。
今者之师，何往不克，善建良图，副朕所望也。
贞阳承齐遣送，将届寿阳。
贞阳前后频与僧辩书，论还国继统之意，僧辩不纳。
及贞阳、高涣至于东关，散骑常侍裴之横率众拒战，败绩，僧辩因遂谋纳贞阳，仍定君臣之礼。
启曰： 自秦兵寇陕，臣便营赴援，才及下船，荆城陷没，即遣刘周入国，具表丹诚，左右勋豪，初并同契。
周既多时不还，人情疑阻；比册降中使，复遣诸处询谋，物论参差，未甚决定。
始得侯瑱信，示西寇权景宣书，令以真迹上呈。
观视将帅，恣欲同泰，若一朝仰违大国，臣不辞灰粉，悲梁祚永绝中兴。
translation: 
When Emperor Yi succeeded to the throne, Wang Sengbian had meritorious service for his participation in the establishment of the new emperor. Emperor Jing, who had not yet held the enthronement ceremony, ordered Wang Sengbianjin to be the General of Hussar, Supervisor of Zhongshu, Commander-in-Chief of Chinese and Foreign Military Affairs, and Minister of Records, and discussed the crusade with Chen Baxian.
At that time, the monarch of Qi State, Gao Yang, wanted Liang State to accept Xiao Yuanming, Marquis of Zhenyang, as the successor monarch of Liang State, so he wrote to Wang Seng to argue: Liang State is unfortunate and disasters occur frequently. Hou Jing made Jianye fall, and King Wuling raised troops in Ba and Han.
Your ambition moved heaven, your sincerity moved the day, and you worked together to suppress the rebellion and eliminate the traitors.
There is no one with emotions who would not praise and praise this; not to mention our neighboring countries, we hope that the situation will be harmonious and stable in advance.
The Western Wei bandits took the opportunity to attack suddenly. The Liang Lord could not hold on to Jiangling and died for the ancestral temple. The imperial army failed and surrendered before the troops arrived. The scholars and people, young and old, all became prisoners of the Western Wei Dynasty.
Seeing this scene in Xiangnan, we are full of sighs and injustice; as you are a minister and a son, your feelings are deeper. Thinking of this will cause your heart to break and your bones to break.
Now I heard that you made the son of the royal family the emperor and commanded the whole country in Jiangyin. He is just over ten years old and is extremely young. The disaster in Liang Kingdom has not yet ended. It is really difficult for him to shoulder the important responsibilities of the country.
Sacrifices in the ancestral temple were performed by Lord Wei, while national affairs were controlled by the Ning family. Weiguo's situation of weak trunk and strong branches has been tabooed by people since ancient times.
I regard the world as my home, and I use the great road to help all people.
Because of the fall of the Liang Kingdom, I missed the friendly feelings in the past and saved the country in danger. This kind of righteous act can be done today; supporting the declining dynasty and setting up the successor monarch are not to be a human ruler, but to uphold morality.
Marquis Zhenyang is the nephew of Emperor Wu of Liang and a descendant of the King of Changsha. With his seniority and prestige, he can keep Jinling, so he can be made the Lord of Liang. Now let you accept him.
I have ordered Gao Huan, the king of Shangdang, to lead all the generals to support Marquis Zhenyang and send him to the south of the Yangtze River. The army is as powerful as thunder and as fast as the wind to help you clear away the rebellion.
Gao Yue, King of Qinghe, once went to rescue Jingcheng. The army had already passed Anlu, but before they arrived, Jingcheng had been captured. We felt deeply regretful and regretful.
I am afraid that the bandits from the Western Wei Dynasty went down the river again and followed us to Jiangzuo. Now they turn to Hankou to meet the lay people in Lu.
You should help me complete this good plan, inspire your generals to fight, mobilize ships, and welcome Marquis Zhenyang to be the king. Gather and deploy your best soldiers and work together.
The Xiqiang were just a mob and were not a strong enemy in the first place. It was only the timidity and cowardice of King Xiangshu that led to the fall of the country.
There is no fortress that cannot be conquered by the troops we have sent out now! I hope you will make sure your plans are in line with my hopes.
Marquis Zhenyang was escorted by troops sent by Qi and was about to arrive in Shouyang.
Marquis Zhenyang wrote to Wang Sengbian several times before and after his departure, talking about his intention to return to his country and inherit the throne, but Wang Sengbian refused to accept it.
When Marquis Zhenyang and Gao Huan arrived at Shuguan, Pei Zhiheng, a regular servant of Sanqi, led his army to resist. After a battle, they were defeated. Wang Sengbian then planned to accept Marquis Zhenyang, thus confirming the relationship between monarch and minister.
Wang Sengbian wrote in a memorial letter: When the Qin bandits invaded Shaanxi, I planned to lead the army to rescue. As soon as I boarded the ship and set off, Jingcheng was captured. I immediately sent Liu Zhou to the Qi State. The above letter showed my sincerity. At that time, the heroes around me all worked together and were willing to be loyal.
Liu Zhou did not come back for a long time, and people were confused and estranged. When the imperial edict was sent to the imperial court, I sent people to various places for consultation and discussion, but people's opinions were different and it was difficult to make an immediate decision.
I just saw the envoy sent by Hou Can and showed me a letter from the enemy enemy in the west Quan Jingxuan. Now I want someone to submit the original letter.
Look at the generals who have been dispatched, they are all willing to share peace and tranquility with Da Qi. If we go against Da Qi's wishes, I will not hesitate even if it is burned to ashes and crushed into powder. I will also be sad that Liang's empire will never have the opportunity to revive.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
伏愿陛下便事济江，仰藉皇齐之威，凭陛下至圣之略，树君以长，雪报可期，社稷再辉，死且非吝。
请押别使曹冲驰表齐都，续启事以闻，伏迟拜奉在促。
贞阳答曰： 姜皓至，枉示具公忠义之怀。
家国丧乱，于今积年。
三后蒙尘，四海腾沸。
天命元辅，匡救本朝。弘济艰难，建武宗祏。
至于丘园板筑，尚想来仪；公室皇枝，岂不虚迟。
闻孤还国，理会高怀，但近再命行人，或不宣具。
公既询谋卿士，访逮籓维，沿溯往来，理淹旬月，使乎届止，殊副所期。
便是再立我萧宗，重兴我梁国。
亿兆黎庶，咸蒙此恩；社稷宗祧，曾不相愧。
近军次东关，频遣信裴之横处，示其可否。
答对骄凶，殊骇闻瞩。
上党王陈兵见卫，欲叙安危，无识之徒，忽然逆战。前旌未举，即自披猖，惊悼之情，弥以伤恻。
上党王深自矜嗟，不传首级，更蒙封树，饰棺厚殡，务从优礼。齐朝大德，信感神民。
方仰藉皇威，敬凭元宰，讨逆贼于咸阳，诛叛子于云梦，同心协力，克定邦家。
览所示权景宣书，上流诸将，本有忠略，弃亲向仇，庶当不尔，防奸定乱，终在于公。
今且顿东关，更待来信，未知水陆何处见迎。
夫建国立君，布在方策，入盟出质，有自来矣。
若公之忠节，上感苍旻；群帅同谋，必匪携贰。则齐师反璟，义不陵江，如致爽言，誓以无克。韬旗侧席，迟复行人。曹冲奉表齐都，即押送也。
渭桥之下，惟迟叙言；汜水之阳，预有号惧。
僧辩又重启曰： 员外常侍姜皓还，奉敕伏具动止。
大齐仁义之风，曲被邻国，恤灾救难，申此大猷。皇家枝戚，莫不荣荷；江东冠冕，俱知凭赖。
今歃不忘信，信实由衷，谨遣臣第七息显，显所生刘并弟子世珍，往彼充质；仍遣左民尚书周弘正至历阳奉迎。
舻舳浮江，俟一龙之渡；清宫丹陛，候六传之入。
万国倾心，同荣晋文之反；三善克宣，方流宋昌之议。
国祚既隆，社稷有奉。则群臣竭节，报厚施于大齐；戮力展愚，效忠诚于陛下。
今遣吏部尚书王通奉启以闻。
僧辩因求以敬帝为皇太子。
贞阳又答曰： 王尚书通至，复枉示，知欲遣贤弟世珍以表诚质，具悉忧国之怀。
复以庭中玉树，掌内明珠，无累胸怀，志在匡救，岂非劬劳我社稷，弘济我邦家？
translation: 
I hope that your majesty will take advantage of the opportunity to cross the river, borrow the prestige of Daqi, and rely on your majesty's most sage strategy to establish an adult king. Revenge will be just around the corner, and the country will be revitalized. Even if I die, I will not regret it.
Now please escort Cao Chong to the capital of the barbarian country, present the seal, and tell the story to your majesty. In a hurry, I bowed my head and saw him off.
Marquis Zhenyang replied: "Jiang Song is here. Please confess your loyalty to me."
The family and the country have been in trouble for many years now.
The three kings suffered humiliation, and the people everywhere suffered from fire and water.
The emperor ordered you, as an important minister of the country, to revitalize and assist our imperial court, vigorously rescue the difficult situation of the imperial court, and rebuild the imperial ancestral temple.
As for the people who are engaged in slab construction in the countryside, they also hope that the country will have the auspiciousness of "Phoenix Lai Ri". How come those ministers, ministers, and relatives of the royal family don't wait empty seats?
When they heard the news that I was returning to the capital, they would naturally welcome me with noble feelings. However, the two envoys sent out recently did not widely announce the news of my return to the capital.
Since you have discussed with the ministers and ministers of the vassal state, traveling upstream and downstream, it should take ten and a half days, and the envoy's stay at your place is in line with my wishes.
This is the great feat of re-establishing our Xiao family ancestral temple and revitalizing our Liang Kingdom.
Hundreds of millions of people have all received this blessing, and we will no longer be ashamed of the Sheji Ancestral Temple.
Recently, the army was stationed in Dongguan, and I frequently sent envoys to Pei Zhiheng to tell him the matter and let him make a decision.
Pei Zhiheng replied that he was arrogant and violent, which was surprising to see and hear.
The King of Shangdang sent troops to protect me. I wanted to talk to him about the security of the country. Some unsighted guys suddenly came up to fight. Before the flag of the vanguard was raised, they were defeated. Their shock and sorrow made me feel pity.
The King of Shangdang also felt deep pity for him and sighed for him. Instead of sending Pei Zhiheng's head to the capital, he treated him with courtesy, filled his coffin, provided a rich funeral, piled graves and planted trees, and provided generous funeral ceremonies. The great virtue of Qi Dynasty really moved the gods and people.
We will rely on the divine power of the previous Holy Emperor and the assistance of the court ministers to defeat the traitors in Xianyang, kill the traitors in Yunmeng, and work together to stabilize the country.
After seeing the letter from Quan Jingxuan that you showed me, the generals guarding the upper reaches of the Yangtze River were originally loyal and had strategies. Now they have abandoned their relatives and turned to the enemy. Perhaps they were forced by the situation and had no choice but to do this. Stopping the conspiracy and quelling the chaos ultimately depends on you, the prince.
Now I will stay in Dongguan for the time being, and wait for you to send an envoy to tell me where to meet me by land and water.
Establishing a country, erecting a monarch, going to the city to make alliances, sending hostages in and out, and the affairs of Japan have been recorded in ancient books for a long time.
If you are loyal and loyal, move the heavens, and all the generals work together to conspire and have no second thoughts, then the Qi army will return to the country and abide by morality and never cross the river; if you violate the preamble, I swear that I will not be able to roll up the flag and return to the army. I will not go back for the time being. I will wait for the sage on the side. Cao Chong, who goes to the capital of Qi as a pedestrian to pay homage to the watch, will be the target of being escorted.
I will wait for your explanation under the Wei Bridge in Chang'an; north of the Si River, there will be howls and cries.
Wang Sengbian went to the table again and said: "Jiang Song, the official's constant attendant, has returned and accepted the order to ask us to state the specific action arrangements."
Daqi's emphasis on benevolence and righteousness has greatly benefited neighboring countries. Now they sympathize with our disasters, help us in distress, and implement such a big plan. No one in the royal family's tribe and relatives is not unfavored, and the official family has also been relied on.
Now we have made an alliance with blood and do not forget integrity. Integrity does come from the heart. I would like to send my seventh son Wang Xian, Wang Hao's biological mother Liu and my brother's son Wang Shizhen to serve as hostages there. I also send Zuo Min Shangshu Zhou Hongzheng to Liyang to welcome him.
The stern of the boat was moored on the river, waiting for a dragon to cross south; the palace rooms and steps were cleaned, waiting for the prince's six-carriage to enter the palace.
The people all over the world admired His Majesty's return and were proud of it, just like the people of Jin admired the return of Duke Wen of Jin. The three virtues of ministers serving the emperor, sons serving the father, and children serving the elders could be promoted, and Song Chang's advice to Emperor Wen to come to Beijing to become the emperor from acting kings spread.
If the country's fortunes are prosperous and there are people in the country to offer sacrifices, then the ministers will try their best to be loyal, repay Zha Gu's kindness, work together to display their talents, and contribute their sincerity to His Majesty.
Now Wang Tong, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, is sent to start the memorial with a seal.
Wang Jianluan then requested that Plasticong be made the crown prince.
Zhenjiang Fort replied: Wang Shangshutong is here, and you have informed me that you want to send your good brother Wang Shizhen as a pledge to show your sincerity, and everyone knows about your concern for the country.
He also takes his virtuous brother, who is as beautiful as a jade tree in the garden, and his son who is the apple of his eye, as a pledge. He does not feel a burden in his heart, but only focuses on supporting the court and rescuing the crisis. Isn't this serving our country and our country day and night?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
惭叹之怀，用忘兴寝。
晋安王东京贻厥之重，西都继体之贤，嗣守皇家，宁非民望。
但世道丧乱，宜立长君，以其蒙孽，难可承业。
成、昭之德，自古希俦；冲、质之危，何代无此。
孤身当否运，志不图生。
忽荷不世之恩，仍致非常之举。
自惟虚薄，兢惧已深。
若建承华，本归皇胄；心口相誓，惟拟晋安。
如或虚言，神明所殛。
览今所示，深遂本怀。
戢慰之情，无寄言象。
但公忧劳之重，既禀齐恩；忠义之情，复及梁贰。
华夷兆庶，岂不怀风？
宗庙明灵，岂不相感？
正尔回璟，仍向历阳。
所期质累，便望来彼。
众军不渡，已著盟书。
斯则大齐圣主之恩规，上党英王之然诺，得原失信，终不为也。
惟迟相见，使在不赊。
乡国非遥，触目号咽。
僧辩使送质于鄴。
贞阳求渡卫士三千，僧辩虑其为变，止受散卒千人而已，并遣龙舟法驾往迎。
贞阳济江之日，僧辩拥楫中流，不敢就岸。后乃同会于江宁浦。
贞阳既践伪位，仍授僧辩大司马，领太子太傅、扬州牧，余悉如故。
陈霸先时为司空、南徐州刺史，恶其翻覆，与诸将议，因自京口举兵十万，水陆俱至，袭于建康。
translation: 
I lamented this and felt guilty, and couldn't sleep because of it.
King Jin'an is the grandson of Emperor Wu of Shujing, with a distinguished status, and he is the successor of Emperor Yuan of the Western Capital. Isn't it the people's wish that he inherit the throne and keep the world?
But when there is trouble in the world, an adult monarch should be established, because he will suffer disaster and find it difficult to inherit the imperial legacy.
Emperor Mo Cheng and Emperor Zhao of Han succeeded to the throne at a young age and achieved great political achievements, which are unparalleled since ancient times; Emperor Chong and Emperor Han Chong became emperors at a young age but were killed and died young. Which dynasty does not have this kind of danger?
When I encounter bad luck, I have no desire to survive.
Suddenly I received a rare favor in the world, so I took the extraordinary action of sending me back to my country to become emperor.
Thinking that I am superficial and have no foundation, I feel deeply frightened and wary.
If a crown prince is to be established, the crown prince's position should originally belong to the emperor's son. I swear in my heart and verbally that this position will only be given to King Jin'an.
If I just told lies, let the gods punish me.
After reading the stamp you sent me now, it is completely consistent with my original idea.
The feeling of relief and peace cannot be expressed in words.
It’s just that, prince, you have worked hard for the country and shouldered heavy responsibilities, so you have repaid the kindness of Qi State; your loyal and sincere feelings have also been extended to the succeeding monarch of Liang State.
Wouldn’t the Chinese and Yi people in the world be obedient and surrender?
Ancestral temple gods, aren’t you grateful?
Turn around the army that was preparing to return to the division and continue to advance towards Liyang.
The people who were originally agreed to be hostages also wanted to come to that place.
The Qi army will not cross the river, which is clearly stated in the alliance letter.
This is exactly the arrangement made by the Shengming Emperor of Dacha who is particularly tolerant to us. King Shangdang, who is extremely virtuous and talented, has promised not to lose his credibility in order to obtain the original. If Duke Wen of Jin does not do such a stupid thing, Qi will not do it in the end.
I'm just waiting to see you again, not far away.
My hometown is very close, and the scene evokes emotions, which makes people even more sad.
Wang Sengbian sent an envoy to send the hostages to Ye.
When the Marquis of Zhenyang crossed the Liao Dynasty, he asked for 3,000 guards to be brought with him. Wang Sengbian was worried that they might instigate a rebellion, so he was only willing to accept 1,000 stragglers. He also sent a dragon boat with the emperor's luan chariot to meet him.
On the day when Marquis Zhenyang crossed the river, Wang only took a boat and stopped in the center of Liao Dynasty, not daring to dock. Later he met Marquis Zhenyang at Jiangningpu.
Marquis Zhenyang ascended the throne of the pseudo-emperor, so he appointed Wang Sengbian as the Grand Sima, leading the Crown Prince, Tutor, and Yangzhou Mu. The other titles remained unchanged.
Su Xixian was then the governor of Sikong and South Xuzhou. He hated Wang Shifeng's capriciousness, so he discussed with the generals to send 100,000 troops from Jingkou to attack Jiankang by land and water.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
于是水军到，僧辩常处于石头城，是日正视事，军人已逾城北而入，南门又驰白有兵来。
僧辩与其子頠遽走出阁，左右心腹尚数十人。
众军悉至，僧辩计无所出，乃据南门楼乞命拜请。
霸先因命纵火焚之，方共頠下就执。
霸先曰： 我有何辜，公欲与齐师赐讨？
又曰： 何意全无防备？
僧辩曰： 委公北门，何谓无备。
尔夜斩之。
长子，承圣初历官至侍中。
初，僧辩平建业，遣霸先守京口，都无备防。屡以为言，僧辩不听，竟及于祸。
西魏寇江陵，世祖遣督城内诸军事。
荆城陷，随王琳入齐，为竟陵郡守。
齐遣琳镇寿春，将图江左。及陈平淮南，执琳杀之。
闻琳死，乃出郡城南，登高冢上号哭，一恸而绝。
弟颁，少有志节，恒随从世祖。及荆城陷覆，没于西魏。
史臣曰：自侯景寇逆，世祖据有上游，以全楚之兵委僧辩将率之任。及克平祸乱，功亦著焉，在乎策勋，当上台之赏。
敬帝以高祖贻厥之重，世祖继体之尊，洎渚宫沦覆，理膺宝祚。
僧辩位当将相，义存伊、霍，乃受胁齐师，傍立支庶。
苟欲行夫忠义，何忠义之远矣？
树国之道既亏，谋身之计不足，自致歼灭，悲矣！
translation: 
So the navy arrived first. Wang Sengbian often lived in Stone City. One day when he was dealing with political affairs, soldiers had climbed over the wall in the north of the city to attack. Someone came on horseback from the south gate to report that an army was coming to attack.
Wang Sengbian and his son Wang Fu hurriedly ran out of the government office, followed by dozens of close friends.
All the troops sent by Chen Baxian had arrived, and Wang Sengbian had no choice but to defend the south gate tower and beg Ling Baxian for mercy.
Chen Baxian ordered the South Gate Tower to be set on fire. Wang Sengbiancai and Wang Zhi went downstairs and were captured.
Su Ling first said: What crime do I have? Do you want to join Qi Jun to attack me?
He also said: Why are you so defenseless?
Monk Wang argued: If I hand over the north gate to you, how can I be considered unprepared?
That night Chen Baxian killed Wang Sengbian.
Wang Sengbian's eldest son, Wang Chan, was promoted to the rank of Attendant at the beginning of his reign.
At first, after Wang Sengbian pacified Jianye, he sent Chen Baxian to guard Jingkou, but he did not take any precautions against him. Wang Jie repeatedly made suggestions on the affairs, but Wang Sengbian did not listen, and eventually fell into trouble.
When the Western Wei Dynasty invaded Jiangling, Shizu sent Wang Jie to supervise all military affairs in the city.
After Jingcheng was captured, Wang Jie followed Wang Lin to Qi State and served as the governor of Jingling County.
Qi sent Wang Lin to guard Shouchun and planned to invade Jiangzuo. After Chen pacified Huainan, he captured Wang Lin and killed him.
Wang Hao heard the news of Wang Lin's death, so he went to the south of the county city, climbed to the top of a mountain and cried bitterly, and died of extreme sorrow.
Wang Hao's younger brother, Wang Ban, had ambition and integrity since he was a child, and often followed Shizu. When Jingcheng was captured, Wang Ban was captured by the Western Wei Dynasty.
Shi Chen said: When Hou Jing rebelled, Shizu occupied the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. He appointed Wang Sengbian as the commander-in-chief and handed over all the soldiers of Chu to Wang Sengbi. After the chaos was quelled, Wang Sengbian's contribution was already obvious to the world. His meritorious service was recorded in the imperial policy secretary, and he was rewarded by the third prince, Prime Minister.
By virtue of his noble status as the grandson of the great ancestor and the heir apparent to the emperor, Emperor Jing should have inherited the throne after Jiangling was captured.
Wang Sengbian was a general and should have the loyalty of Yi Yin and Huo Guang to assist his young master. However, he was coerced by the Qi army and appointed a concubine from the royal family as emperor.
If you want to fulfill your loyalty, why do you stray away from it?
The morality of founding a country and establishing a monarch is already lacking, and planning for one's own safety is not well thought out, leading to one's own destruction, how sad!


