Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝文皇帝，高祖中子也。
高祖十一年春，已破陈豨军，定代地，立为代王，都中都。
太后薄氏子。
即位十七年，高后八年七月，高后崩。
九月，诸吕吕产等欲为乱，以危刘氏，大臣共诛之，谋召立代王，事在吕后语中。
丞相陈平、太尉周勃等使人迎代王。
代王问左右郎中令张武等。
张武等议曰： 汉大臣皆故高帝时大将，习兵，多谋诈，此其属意非止此也，特畏高帝、吕太后威耳。
今已诛诸吕，新喋血京师，此以迎大王为名，实不可信。
原大王称疾毋往，以观其变。
中尉宋昌进曰： 群臣之议皆非也。
夫秦失其政，诸侯豪桀并起，人人自以为得之者以万数，然卒践天子之位者，刘氏也，天下绝望，一矣。
高帝封王子弟，地犬牙相制，此所谓盘石之宗也，天下服其彊，二矣。
汉兴，除秦苛政，约法令，施德惠，人人自安，难动摇，三矣。
夫以吕太后之严，立诸吕为三王，擅权专制，然而太尉以一节入北军，一呼士皆左袒，为刘氏，叛诸吕，卒以灭之。
此乃天授，非人力也。
今大臣虽欲为变，百姓弗为使，其党宁能专一邪？
方今内有硃虚、东牟之亲，外畏吴、楚、淮南、琅邪、齐、代之彊。
方今高帝子独淮南王与大王，大王又长，贤圣仁孝，闻於天下，故大臣因天下之心而欲迎立大王，大王勿疑也。
代王报太后计之，犹与未定。
卜之龟，卦兆得大横。
占曰： 大横庚庚，余为天王，夏启以光。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowen was the eldest son of Emperor Gaozu.
In the spring of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Chen Xi's army was defeated and Dai was pacified. Emperor Xiaowen was made King of Dai and his capital was Zhongdu.
He is the son of Queen Mother Bo.
In the seventeenth year of his reign as King of Dai, it was the eighth year of the reign of Emperor Gao. In July of this year, Queen Gao passed away.
In September, Lu Chan and others from Empress Lu's family wanted to rebel and overthrow the Liu family's regime. The ministers annihilated the Lu family together and discussed summoning the king to come to the capital and establish him as emperor. This incident is recorded in "The Chronicles of Empress Dowager Lu".
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo and others sent people to greet the king.
The king asked his ministers, Lang Zhongling, Zhang Wu and others for their opinions.
Zhang Wu and others suggested: The ministers in the Han Dynasty were all generals from the time of Emperor Gao. They were familiar with military affairs and were scheming and deceitful. Their real intention was not just that, they were just afraid of the power of Emperor Gao and Empress Dowager Lu.
Now that the Lu family has been annihilated and the capital has been bloodbathed, they are here to greet the king in name, but in fact they cannot be trusted.
I hope that the king will pretend to be ill, not go to the capital, and sit back and watch the situation change.
Lieutenant Song Chang said: The opinions of the ministers are all wrong.
When the corruption of the Qin Dynasty collapsed, the princes and heroes rose up at the same time, thinking that they could conquer the world. There were tens of thousands of people. However, it was the Liu family who finally ascended to the position of emperor. Those who competed in the world cut off the hope of becoming emperor. This is the first point.
Emperor Gao made his children kings, and the territories of the kingdoms were intertwined. This is what people call a clan that is as solid as a rock. Everyone in the world succumbed to the strength of the Liu family. This is the second point.
The rise of the Han Dynasty abolished the harsh decrees of the Qin Dynasty, simplified the laws, and benefited the people. Everyone lived peacefully and unshakably. This is the third point.
With the majesty of the Empress Dowager Lu, she established three of Lu's children as kings, who excelled in power and autocratic power. However, the Taiwei entered the Northern Army with integrity. When he called out, the soldiers all bared their left arms to support the Liu family and betrayed the Lu family. As a result, the Lu family was wiped out.
This is a gift from God and cannot be achieved by human beings.
Now even if the ministers want to rebel, the people are unwilling to be driven by them. Can their party members unite together wholeheartedly?
Today, there are relatives like Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou in the capital, and outside the capital there are people who are afraid of the power of the King of Wu, the King of Chu, the King of Huainan, the King of Langxie, the King of Qi, and the King of Dai.
At present, the only sons of Emperor Gao are the King of Huainan and the Great King. The Great King is older, famous for his virtuousness, saintliness, benevolence, and filial piety. Therefore, the ministers comply with the wishes of the people in the world and want to welcome the Great King as the emperor. The Great King has no doubts.
The king reported to the queen mother and held consultations, but he hesitated and did not make up his mind.
Use tortoise shells for divination, and the omens of the hexagrams will be great.
The omen said: Daheng heralds a change. I will become the king of heaven and carry forward the cause of the late emperor like Xia Qi.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
代王曰： 寡人固已为王矣，又何王？
卜人曰： 所谓天王者乃天子。
於是代王乃遣太后弟薄昭往见绛侯，绛侯等具为昭言所以迎立王意。
薄昭还报曰： 信矣，毋可疑者。
代王乃笑谓宋昌曰： 果如公言。
乃命宋昌参乘，张武等六人乘传诣长安。
至高陵休止，而使宋昌先驰之长安观变。
昌至渭桥，丞相以下皆迎。
宋昌还报。
代王驰至渭桥，群臣拜谒称臣。
代王下车拜。
太尉勃进曰： 原请间言。
宋昌曰： 所言公，公言之。
所言私，王者不受私。
太尉乃跪上天子玺符。
代王谢曰： 至代邸而议之。
遂驰入代邸。
群臣从至。
丞相陈平、太尉周勃、大将军陈武、御史大夫张苍、宗正刘郢、硃虚侯刘章、东牟侯刘兴居、典客刘揭皆再拜言曰： 子弘等皆非孝惠帝子，不当奉宗庙。
臣谨请阴安侯列侯顷王后与琅邪王、宗室、大臣、列侯、吏二千石议曰： 大王高帝长子，宜为高帝嗣。
原大王即天子位。
代王曰： 奉高帝宗庙，重事也。
寡人不佞，不足以称宗庙。
原请楚王计宜者，寡人不敢当。
群臣皆伏固请。
代王西乡让者三，南乡让者再。
丞相平等皆曰： 臣伏计之，大王奉高帝宗庙最宜称，虽天下诸侯万民以为宜。
臣等为宗庙社稷计，不敢忽。
原大王幸听臣等。
臣谨奉天子玺符再拜上。
代王曰： 宗室将相王列侯以为莫宜寡人，寡人不敢辞。
遂即天子位。
群臣以礼次侍。
乃使太仆婴与东牟侯兴居清宫，奉天子法驾，迎于代邸。
皇帝即日夕入未央宫。
乃夜拜宋昌为卫将军，镇抚南北军。
以张武为郎中令，行殿中。
还坐前殿。
translation: 
Dai Wang said: I am already the king of vassals, what else do I want to be?
The fortune teller said: The king in question is the Son of Heaven.
So King Dai sent Bo Zhao, the younger brother of the Queen Mother, to the capital to meet with Jianghou. Jianghou and others told Bo Zhao all about their intention to welcome King Dai.
Bo Zhao came back and reported: The situation is real and there is nothing to doubt.
King Dai then smiled and said to Song Chang, "It's exactly what you said."
Song Chang was asked to ride on the right side of the car, and Zhang Wu and six other people took the transfer car to Chang'an.
After arriving at Gaoling, they stopped and sent Song Chang to drive to Chang'an to observe the changes in the situation.
When Song Chang arrived at Weiqiao, officials at all levels below the prime minister came to greet him.
Song Chang came back and reported to King Dai.
King Dai drove to Weiqiao, where all the ministers came to pay homage and called themselves ministers.
On behalf of the king, he got out of the car and paid his respects.
Taiwei Zhou Bo came to see him and said: I hope to talk to you alone.
Song Chang said: If what you say is official business, say it publicly.
What is said is a private matter, and the king does not accept private affairs.
The Taiwei knelt down and presented the emperor's seal and talisman.
King Dai said goodbye and said: "Go to Daiguo's official residence to discuss."
So he drove into Daiguo's official residence.
The ministers also followed them to Daiguo's official residence.
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo, General Chen Wu, Yushi Zhang Cang, Zongzheng Liu Ying, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju, and Dianke Liu Jie all paid homage to Hou Jin and said: Prince Liu Hong and others are not the sons of Emperor Xiaohui and should not be emperors and be enshrined in the ancestral temple.
We discussed with the Marquis of Yin'an, Queen Qing, as well as King Langxie, the clan, ministers, princes, and officials of more than two thousand stones, and said: The king is now the eldest son of Emperor Gao, and is suitable to be the successor of Emperor Gao.
I hope your Majesty will ascend the throne and become the Emperor.
Dai Wang said: It is a very important thing to enshrine Emperor Gaodi in the ancestral temple.
I am not talented enough to serve in the ancestral temple.
I hope to ask the King of Chu to consider a suitable person. I dare not take on this important task.
The ministers all prostrated themselves on the ground and made a firm request.
The king of Dai surrendered three times while facing the west and twice more while facing the south.
Prime Minister Chen Ping and others said: "We have discussed below that it is most appropriate for the king to worship Gaodi in the ancestral temple. Even the princes and people of the world think it is appropriate."
We consider the ancestral temple and the country and dare not neglect our work.
I hope your Majesty will listen to our advice.
We solemnly and respectfully present the emperor's seal and talismans.
Dai Wang said: The clan, generals, kings, and princes all think that there is no more suitable candidate than me, so I dare not refuse any more.
So he ascended the throne as emperor.
The ministers served according to the etiquette and rank.
He sent his servants Xia Houying and Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju to clear the palace and use the Emperor's Dharma to greet the emperor at his residence.
The emperor entered Weiyang Palace that night.
At night, Song Chang was appointed as General of the Guard to subdue and organize the Northern and Southern armies.
Zhang Wu was appointed as the commander-in-chief and patrolled the palace.
The emperor returned to the front hall to sit in court.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
於是夜下诏书曰： 间者诸吕用事擅权，谋为大逆，欲以危刘氏宗庙，赖将相列侯宗室大臣诛之，皆伏其辜。
朕初即位，其赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛酒，酺五日。
孝文皇帝元年十月庚戌，徙立故琅邪王泽为燕王。
辛亥，皇帝即阼，谒高庙。
右丞相平徙为左丞相，太尉勃为右丞相，大将军灌婴为太尉。
诸吕所夺齐楚故地，皆复与之。
壬子，遣车骑将军薄昭迎皇太后于代。
皇帝曰： 吕产自置为相国，吕禄为上将军，擅矫遣灌将军婴将兵击齐，欲代刘氏，婴留荥阳弗击，与诸侯合谋以诛吕氏。
吕产欲为不善，丞相陈平与太尉周勃谋夺吕产等军。
硃虚侯刘章首先捕吕产等。
太尉身率襄平侯通持节承诏入北军。
典客刘揭身夺赵王吕禄印。
益封太尉勃万户，赐金五千斤。
丞相陈平、灌将军婴邑各三千户，金二千斤。
硃虚侯刘章、襄平侯通、东牟侯刘兴居邑各二千户，金千斤。
封典客揭为阳信侯，赐金千斤。
十二月，上曰： 法者，治之正也，所以禁暴而率善人也。
今犯法已论，而使毋罪之父母妻子同产坐之，及为收帑，朕甚不取。
其议之。
有司皆曰： 民不能自治，故为法以禁之。
相坐坐收，所以累其心，使重犯法，所从来远矣。
如故便。 上曰： 朕闻法正则民悫，罪当则民从。
且夫牧民而导之善者，吏也。
其既不能导，又以不正之法罪之，是反害於民为暴者也。何以禁之？
朕未见其便，其孰计之。
translation: 
So that night an edict was issued saying: Recently, the descendants of the Lu family have been monopolizing power, plotting rebellion, and trying to endanger the Liu family's ancestral temple. Fortunately, the generals, princes, clans, and ministers have eliminated them, and they have all received the punishment they deserve.
I had just ascended the throne and granted a general amnesty to the people. I granted the male heads of households among the common people a rank of nobility, and the female heads of households were given cattle and wine for every 100 households, and were allowed to gather and feast for five days.
On October 1, the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Liu Ze, the original king of Langxie, was granted the title of King of Yan.
On the second day, the emperor ascended the throne and paid homage to the Gaomiao.
The right prime minister Chen Ping moved to the left as the prime minister, the Taiwei Zhou Bo became the right prime minister, and the general Guan Ying became the Taiwei.
The old lands of Qi and Chu that Lu had captured were all returned to Qi and Chu.
On the third day, the cavalry general Bo Zhao was sent to Dai State to greet the Empress Dowager.
The emperor said: Lu Chan appointed himself Prime Minister, and Lu Lu appointed himself General. They sent General Guan Ying to lead the army to attack Qi State without authorization, in order to replace Liu. Guan Ying stayed in Xingyang, held his troops inactive, and conspired with the princes to kill the Lu family.
Lu Chan attempted to launch a rebellion, and Prime Minister Chen Ping and Taiwei Zhou Bo used tactics to seize the military power of Lu Chan and others.
Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang first captured Lu Chan and others.
The Taiwei personally led Xiangping Hou Jitong to join the Northern Army in accordance with the imperial edict.
Dianke Liu Jie personally took the seal of King Zhao Lu Lu.
Taiwei Zhou Bo was granted the title of 10,000 households and received five thousand catties of gold.
The prime minister Chen Ping and the general Guan Ying were granted the title of three thousand households each, and were given two thousand catties of gold.
The titles of Zhuxuhou Liu Zhang, Xiangpinghou Jitong, and Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju were granted to each of them with 2,000 households and a limit of 1,000 kilograms of gold.
The Dianke Liu Jie was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxin and his son was given a thousand catties of gold.
In December, the emperor said: The law is the criterion for governing the country. It is used to prohibit cruelty and guide people to be good.
Now, after a person has been convicted of a crime, the innocent parents, wives, and brothers are brought together to confiscate their wives and children as slaves of the government. I strongly disagree with this approach.
Let’s discuss it.
Officials all said: The people cannot govern themselves, so they make laws to restrain them.
They sat next to each other and took their wives and children as slaves of the government, in order to restrain the people's psychology so that they would not dare to break the law easily. This practice has been around for a long time, and it is appropriate to continue the same practice as before.
The emperor said: I heard that if the law is fair, the people will be loyal, and if the crime is judged and the punishment is appropriate, the people will be obedient.
Moreover, it is the officials who manage the people and guide them to be good.
Officials are unable to guide them and use unjust laws to judge crimes. This actually harms the people and makes them commit violence and chaos. How can the law prohibit it?
I see nothing convenient about such a law. Think it over again.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
有司皆曰： 陛下加大惠，德甚盛，非臣等所及也。
请奉诏书，除收帑诸相坐律令。
正月，有司言曰： 蚤建太子，所以尊宗庙。
请立太子。
上曰： 朕既不德，上帝神明未歆享，天下人民未有嗛志。
今纵不能博求天下贤圣有德之人而禅天下焉，而曰豫建太子，是重吾不德也。谓天下何？
其安之。
有司曰： 豫建太子，所以重宗庙社稷，不忘天下也。
上曰： 楚王，季父也，春秋高，阅天下之义理多矣，明於国家之大体。
吴王於朕，兄也，惠仁以好德。
淮南王，弟也，秉德以陪朕。岂为不豫哉！
诸侯王宗室昆弟有功臣，多贤及有德义者，若举有德以陪朕之不能终，是社稷之灵，天下之福也。
今不选举焉，而曰必子，人其以朕为忘贤有德者而专於子，非所以忧天下也。
朕甚不取也。
有司皆固请曰： 古者殷周有国，治安皆千馀岁，古之有天下者莫长焉，用此道也。
立嗣必子，所从来远矣。
高帝亲率士大夫，始平天下，建诸侯，为帝者太祖。
诸侯王及列侯始受国者皆亦为其国祖。
子孙继嗣，世世弗绝，天下之大义也，故高帝设之以抚海内。
今释宜建而更选於诸侯及宗室，非高帝之志也。
更议不宜。
子某最长，纯厚慈仁，请建以为太子。
上乃许之。
因赐天下民当代父後者爵各一级封将军薄昭为轵侯。
三月，有司请立皇后。
薄太后曰： 诸侯皆同姓，立太子母为皇后。
皇后姓窦氏。
上为立后故，赐天下鳏寡孤独穷困及年八十已上孤兒九岁已下布帛米肉各有数。
上从代来，初即位，施德惠天下，填抚诸侯四夷皆洽驩，乃循从代来功臣。
上曰： 方大臣之诛诸吕迎朕，朕狐疑，皆止朕，唯中尉宋昌劝朕，朕以得保奉宗庙。
已尊昌为卫将军，其封昌为壮武侯。
诸从朕六人，官皆至九卿。
上曰： 列侯从高帝入蜀、汉中者六十八人皆益封各三百户，故吏二千石以上从高帝颍川守尊等十人食邑六百户，淮阳守申徒嘉等十人五百户，卫尉定等十人四百户。
封淮南王舅父赵兼为周阳侯，齐王舅父驷钧为清郭侯。
秋，封故常山丞相蔡兼为樊侯。
人或说右丞相曰： 君本诛诸吕，迎代王，今又矜其功，受上赏，处尊位，祸且及身。
右丞相勃乃谢病免罢，左丞相平专为丞相。
二年十月，丞相平卒，复以绛侯勃为丞相。
上曰： 朕闻古者诸侯建国千馀，各守其地，以时入贡，民不劳苦，上下驩欣，靡有遗德。
今列侯多居长安，邑远，吏卒给输费苦，而列侯亦无由教驯其民。
其令列侯之国，为吏及诏所止者，遣太子。
translation: 
The officials all said: The emperor's kindness to the people is so great and his virtue is so profound that it cannot be matched by our ministers.
Let us sincerely follow the edict and abolish the laws that prohibit one person from committing a crime, confiscate his wife as a servant of the government, and some other laws that are linked to each other.
In the first month of the year, officials came forward and said: The purpose of confirming the prince earlier is to respect the ancestral temple.
Please install a prince now.
The emperor said: I am already a man of poor virtue. The gods do not enjoy my sacrifices, and the people of the world are not satisfied.
Now that I cannot widely seek for the wise, sage and virtuous people in the world and surrender to the world, I say that I want to establish the prince in advance. This makes me even more virtuous. How should I explain it to the people of the world?
Let’s talk about it slowly later.
Officials said: To establish the prince in advance is to put the ancestral temple and the country first and not forget the world.
The emperor said: The King of Chu is my uncle. He is old and experienced. He understands many principles of the world and the general outline of the country.
King Wu is my elder brother. He is a benevolent man and likes to treat others with kindness.
King Huainan is my younger brother, and he comes to assist me with virtue. Doesn't this pre-solve the emperor's heir?
The princes, kings, clans, brothers, and meritorious ministers are all wise and virtuous people. If you recommend people with moral integrity to help and succeed me, who cannot die, this will be a blessing for the gods of the country and the people of the world.
If I don't mention it now, but I think it must be passed on to my son, people will think that I have forgotten the wise and virtuous people, and am focusing on my own son instead of thinking about the world.
I strongly disapprove of this approach.
The officials all requested resolutely: In ancient times, the Yin and Zhou dynasties established the country and brought peace and order to the world for more than a thousand years. In ancient times, no one who owned the world had a longer-term rule than Yin and Zhou. This is because Yin and Zhou adopted the method of passing on the throne to the son.
He must make his son his heir, as he did so a long time ago.
Emperor Gao personally led the soldiers and generals to pacify the world, feudal princes, and became the ancestor of all emperors.
The princes, kings and princes who initially accepted the feudal kingdom also became the ancestors of their own feudal kingdom.
The succession of descendants to the throne continues from generation to generation, which is the great justice of the world. Therefore, Emperor Gao established the system of succession to the throne to stabilize the country.
It is not Gao Di's idea to give up the candidates who should be appointed as successors and choose others from the princes and clans.
It is not appropriate to change someone else's practice.
Zi is the eldest son, he is kind and kind, please make him the prince.
The emperor agreed.
Therefore, the eldest son of the people in the world who should inherit his father's inheritance was given a rank of nobility. General Bo Zhao was granted the title of Marquis of Zhi.
In March, officials requested the title of queen.
Empress Dowager Bo said: "The princes and kings all have the same surname, so let's make the prince's mother the queen."
The queen's surname is Dou.
Because of the establishment of a queen, the emperor gave a certain amount of cloth, silk, rice, and meat to the widowed, lonely and poor people in the world, as well as the elderly over eighty years old and orphans under nine years old.
The emperor came to the capital from the state of Dai. Not long after he took the throne, he extended kindness to the people of the world and appeased the princes and ethnic minorities from all directions. They were all happy and harmonious, so they rewarded the meritorious officials who came to the capital from the state of Dai in turn.
The emperor said: When the ministers killed the descendants of the Lu family to welcome me, I was hesitant and everyone blocked me. Only Lieutenant Song Chang persuaded me so that I could serve the ancestral temple.
He already respected Song Chang as General Wei, and then named Song Chang as Zhuang Wuhou.
The six people who followed me to the capital were all promoted to the rank of Jiuqing.
The emperor said: Among the sixty-eight princes who followed Emperor Gao to Shu and Hanzhong, each of them was granted a city of 300 households. In the past, the officials who followed Emperor Gao for more than 2,000 shi, including the governor of Yingchuan County, were granted 600 households each. Ten people including Shen Tujia, the governor of Huaiyang County, were granted 500 households each. Ten people such as Wei Wei Ding were granted 400 households each.
Zhao Jian, the uncle of the King of Huainan, was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang, and Si Jun, the uncle of the King of Qi, was granted the title of Marquis of Guo of the Qing Dynasty.
In autumn, Cai Jian, the prime minister of the original Changshan Kingdom, was granted the title of Marquis of Fan.
Someone advised the right prime minister: You originally killed the descendants of the Lu family and welcomed the king as the emperor. Now you rely on these merits to accept the greatest rewards and are in a distinguished position. Disaster will soon come.
Zhou Bo, the right prime minister, dismissed the right prime minister on the pretext of illness, leaving Chen Ping, the left prime minister, to serve as prime minister.
In October of the second year, the prime minister Chen Ping died, and Jianghou Zhou Bo was appointed as the prime minister.
The emperor said: I heard that in ancient times, there were more than a thousand princes who established kingdoms. Each of them guarded his own territory and paid tribute to the emperor according to the prescribed time. The people did not work hard, they were happy and rejoiced, and there was no loss of morality.
Nowadays, most of the princes go to Chang'an, which is far away from the feudal towns. The officials and soldiers there provide and transport the necessary materials, which is laborious and laborious, and the princes have no way to educate and train their people.
The princes were ordered to return to the feudal state, and those who held official positions in the court and had edicts to stay were sent to send the princes to the feudal state.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十一月晦，日有食之。
十二月望，日又食。
上曰： 朕闻之，天生蒸民，为之置君以养治之。
人主不德，布政不均，则天示之以菑，以诫不治。
乃十一月晦，日有食之，適见于天，菑孰大焉！
朕获保宗庙，以微眇之身讬于兆民君王之上，天下治乱，在朕一人，唯二三执政犹吾股肱也。
朕下不能理育群生，上以累三光之明，其不德大矣。
令至，其悉思朕之过失，及知见思之所不及，匄以告朕。
及举贤良方正能直言极谏者，以匡朕之不逮。
因各饬其任职，务省繇费以便民。
朕既不能远德，故忄间然念外人之有非，是以设备未息。
今纵不能罢边屯戍，而又饬兵厚卫，其罢卫将军军。
太仆见马遗财足，馀皆以给传置。
正月，上曰： 农，天下之本，其开籍田，朕亲率耕，以给宗庙粢盛。
三月，有司请立皇子为诸侯王。
上曰： 赵幽王幽死，朕甚怜之，已立其长子遂为赵王。
遂弟辟彊及齐悼惠王子硃虚侯章、东牟侯兴居有功，可王。
乃立赵幽王少子辟彊为河间王，以齐剧郡立硃虚侯为城阳王，立东牟侯为济北王，皇子武为代王，子参为太原王，子揖为梁王。
上曰： 古之治天下，朝有进善之旌，诽谤之木，所以通治道而来谏者。
今法有诽谤妖言之罪，是使众臣不敢尽情，而上无由闻过失也。将何以来远方之贤良？
其除之。
民或祝诅上以相约结而後相谩，吏以为大逆，其有他言，而吏又以为诽谤。
此细民之愚无知抵死，朕甚不取。
自今以来，有犯此者勿听治。
translation: 
On the last day of November, a solar eclipse occurs.
On December 15th, another solar eclipse occurred.
The emperor said: I heard that God gave birth to all nations and set up kings for them to raise and govern them.
If the monarch is unkind and his governance is unfair, God will show him disasters and strange phenomena to warn him that the world is not governed well.
At the end of November, there was a solar eclipse, and God showed me its condemnation. No disaster could be more serious than this.
I am able to protect the ancestral temple and stand above hundreds of millions of people and princes and kings as a small individual. I am able to control chaos in the world. I only have two or three ministers in power who can act as my right-hand man.
I am unable to govern and nurture the main spirit of all things below, and I am damaging the glory of the sun, moon, and stars above. My unkindness is really too serious.
After the edict is issued, I must think about my mistakes and the things that I know, see, and think cannot be achieved, and I ask you to tell me.
And I also recommend virtuous and upright people who can speak out and give advice to correct my mistakes.
Take this opportunity to organize your own responsibilities and strive to reduce labor and expenses to facilitate the people.
Since I couldn't carry out the mission far away, I felt very uneasy and worried that people in remote areas might do evil things. For this reason, I did not lift the military alert.
Now even though we cannot get rid of the garrison at the frontier, we have ordered the soldiers to defend us strictly and withdrawn the troops led by General Wei.
The servant's existing horses were only enough, and the rest were given to the inn.
In the first month of the first lunar month, the emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the country. I will reclaim the land and personally lead the cultivation to provide grain for sacrifices to the ancestral temple.
In March, officials requested that the prince be made king of the vassals.
The emperor said: King You of Zhao died in confinement. I pity him very much and have appointed his eldest son Liu Sui as King of Zhao.
Liu Sui's younger brother Liu Pijiang, as well as the sons of King Hui of Qi, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, and Dongmu Hou Liu Xingju had meritorious services and could be crowned kings.
So Liu Bijiang, the youngest son of King Zhao You, was made King of Hejian, Zhu Xuhou, an important county in Qi State, was made King of Chengyang, Hou Hou of Dongmou was made King of Jibei, Prince Liu Wu was made the acting king, Prince Liu Shen was made King of Taiyuan, and Prince Liu Yi was made King of Liang.
The emperor said: In ancient times, when the world was governed, the imperial court had flags for offering good words and wooden pillars for writing critical remarks. In order to keep the way of governing the country smooth, people who can speak out and give correct advice can come to express their opinions.
Nowadays, there is a crime of defamation and evil words in law, which prevents ministers from speaking freely, and the emperor cannot hear his own faults. How can virtuous people from far away come to the court?
This law should be repealed.
If someone among the common people curses the emperor and agrees to hide it from each other, but later deceives and exposes each other, the officials will regard it as treason. If there are other remarks, the officials will regard it as slander.
These are the ignorance of ordinary people, and I strongly disagree with the death penalty based on this.
From now on, those who commit such crimes will not be tried or punished.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
九月，初与郡国守相为铜虎符、竹使符。
三年十月丁酉晦，日有食之。
十一月，上曰： 前日遣列侯之国，或辞未行。
丞相朕之所重，其为朕率列侯之国。
绛侯勃免丞相就国，以太尉颍阴侯婴为丞相。
罢太尉官，属丞相。
四月，城阳王章薨。
淮南王长与从者魏敬杀辟阳侯审食其。
五月，匈奴入北地，居河南为寇。
帝初幸甘泉。
六月，帝曰： 汉与匈奴约为昆弟，毋使害边境，所以输遗匈奴甚厚。
今右贤王离其国，将众居河南降地，非常故，往来近塞，捕杀吏卒，驱保塞蛮夷，令不得居其故，陵轹边吏，入盗，甚敖无道，非约也。
其发边吏骑八万五千诣高奴，遣丞相颍阴侯灌婴击匈奴。
匈奴去，发中尉材官属卫将军军长安。
辛卯，帝自甘泉之高奴，因幸太原，见故群臣，皆赐之。
举功行赏，诸民里赐牛酒。
复晋阳中都民三岁。
留游太原十馀日。
济北王兴居闻帝之代，欲往击胡，乃反，发兵欲袭荥阳。
於是诏罢丞相兵，遣棘蒲侯陈武为大将军，将十万往击之。
祁侯贺为将军，军荥阳。
七月辛亥，帝自太原至长安。乃诏有司曰： 济北王背德反上，诖误吏民，为大逆。
济北吏民兵未至先自定，及以军地邑降者，皆赦之，复官爵。
与王兴居去来，亦赦之。
八月，破济北军，虏其王。
赦济北诸吏民与王反者。
六年，有司言淮南王长废先帝法，不听天子诏，居处毋度，出入拟於天子，擅为法令，与棘蒲侯太子奇谋反，遣人使闽越及匈奴，发其兵，欲以危宗庙社稷。
群臣议，皆曰 长当弃市 帝不忍致法於王，赦其罪，废勿王。
群臣请处王蜀严道、邛都，帝许之。
长未到处所，行病死，上怜之。
後十六年，追尊淮南王长谥为厉王，立其子三人为淮南王、衡山王、庐江王。
十三年夏，上曰： 盖闻天道祸自怨起而福繇德兴。
translation: 
In September, the bronze tiger talisman used for dispatching troops and generals and the bamboo talisman used for envoys to go out and send out conquests were given to the county guards and the prime ministers.
On October 30, three years ago, a solar eclipse occurred.
In November, the emperor said: Some time ago, an edict was issued to allow the princes to go to their own feudal states, but some made excuses not to leave.
The prime minister is someone I value highly, and he should lead the princes to the feudal country.
Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Sui, was dismissed from the post of prime minister and returned to his feudal state, with Captain Yingyin Marquis Guan Ying as the prime minister.
The official position of Taiwei was abolished and its authority was vested in the Prime Minister.
In April, Liu Zhang, king of Chengyang, passed away.
Huainan King Liu Chang and his entourage Wei Jing killed Piyanghou and tried to eat him.
In May, the Xiongnu entered Beidi County and occupied the south of the Yellow River. They plundered and caused harm.
The emperor visited Ganquan Palace for the first time.
In June, the emperor said: The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are brothers and will not allow them to invade the border. For this reason, the gifts sent to the Xiongnu are very generous.
Now King Youxian left his country and led his troops to station in the areas south of the Yellow River that had surrendered to the Han Dynasty. He changed the original situation and went in and out of the border areas, killing officials and soldiers, expelling the barbarians in the castles and fortresses, not allowing them to live in the same place, bullying the border officials, and entering the interior to rob. He was very arrogant and unethical and violated the past agreement.
He dispatched 85,000 officials and cavalry from border areas to Gaonu, and dispatched Prime Minister Yingyinhou Guanying to attack the Xiongnu.
The Huns evacuated the frontier fortress. The lieutenant officer was dispatched to General Wei and stationed in Chang'an.
On the 27th, the emperor went from Ganquan Palace to Gaonu. He stopped by Taiyuan on the way and met with all the ministers of the former country and rewarded them all.
He also selected meritorious ministers and rewarded them separately, and the people in those villages gave them cattle and wine.
The people of Jinyang and Zhongdu were exempted from corvee service and taxes for three years.
We stayed in Taiyuan for more than ten days.
When Liu Xingju, the king of Jibei, heard that the emperor was going to Dai and preparing to attack the Xiongnu, he took the opportunity to rebel and dispatched troops to attack Xingyang.
So the emperor issued an edict to the prime minister to stop attacking the Xiongnu, and sent Chen Wu, Marquis of Jipu, as a general to lead an army of 100,000 to attack the King of Jibei.
Qihou Zanhe was made a general and stationed in Xingyang.
On July 18, when the emperor returned to Chang'an from Taiyuan, he issued an edict to the officials: The King of Jibei violated morality and rebelled against the emperor, causing trouble for the officials and the people. It was a treasonous act.
If the army has not arrived, and the officials and people of Jibei settle down first, as well as those who surrendered with the army and local cities, they will be pardoned and their original official positions and titles will be restored.
Those who rebelled and returned with Liu Xingju, King of Jibei, were also pardoned.
In August, the army of Jibei feudal state was defeated and the king of Jibei was captured.
Pardon the officials and people of the feudal state of Jibei who followed the king of Jibei and rebelled.
In the sixth year, officials reported that Huainan King Liu Chang had abandoned the decrees of the late emperor and did not obey the emperor's edicts. The palace he lived in was not in compliance with the law.
The ministers discussed it and all said that Chang Liu should be executed on the street and his body exposed to the public. The emperor could not bear to deal with King Huainan according to the law, so he pardoned his sins and deposed him from the throne.
The ministers requested that King Huainan be exiled to the Qiongdu area of ​​Yandao, Shu County, and the emperor agreed.
Liu Chang died of illness on the road before he reached the place where he was exiled. The emperor took pity on him.
Later, in the sixteenth year, he honored Liu Chang, King of Huainan, with the posthumous title of King Li, and named his three sons King of Huainan, King of Hengshan, and King of Lujiang.
In the summer of the thirteenth year, the emperor said: I heard that disasters arise from resentment, and happiness arises from virtue. This is the law of God.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
百官之非，宜由朕躬。
今祕祝之官移过于下，以彰吾之不德，朕甚不取。
其除之。
五月，齐太仓令淳于公有罪当刑，诏狱逮徙系长安。
太仓公无男，有女五人。
太仓公将行会逮，骂其女曰： 生子不生男，有缓急非有益也！
其少女缇萦自伤泣，乃随其父至长安，上书曰： 妾父为吏，齐中皆称其廉平，今坐法当刑。
妾伤夫死者不可复生，刑者不可复属，虽复欲改过自新，其道无由也。
妾原没入为官婢，赎父刑罪，使得自新。
书奏天子，天子怜悲其意，乃下诏曰： 盖闻有虞氏之时，画衣冠异章服以为僇，而民不犯。
何则？
至治也。
今法有肉刑三，而奸不止，其咎安在？
非乃朕德薄而教不明欤？
吾甚自愧。
故夫驯道不纯而愚民陷焉。诗曰 恺悌君子，民之父母 。
今人有过，教未施而刑加焉？或欲改行为善而道毋由也。朕甚怜之。夫刑至断支体，刻肌肤，终身不息，何其楚痛而不德也，岂称为民父母之意哉！
其除肉刑。
上曰： 农，天下之本，务莫大焉。
今勤身从事而有租税之赋，是为本末者毋以异，其於劝农之道未备。
其除田之租税。
十四年冬，匈奴谋入边为寇，攻朝塞，杀北地都尉卬。
上乃遣三将军军陇西、北地、上郡，中尉周舍为卫将军，郎中令张武为车骑将军，军渭北，车千乘，骑卒十万。
帝亲自劳军，勒兵申教令，赐军吏卒。
帝欲自将击匈奴，群臣谏，皆不听。
皇太后固要帝，帝乃止。
translation: 
I should be personally responsible for the mistakes of all officials.
Now the officials praying secretly blame the ministers below, which makes my immorality even more obvious. I strongly disapprove of this approach.
It should be abolished.
In May, Taicang of Qi State ordered Chunyu Gong to commit a crime and should be punished. He was arrested and detained in Chang'an.
The Duke of Taicang had no boys, but five daughters.
When the Duke of Taicang was arrested and leaving, he scolded his daughter and said: "Whoever gives birth to a child but does not give birth to a boy has an urgent matter and it is of no use at all!"
His youngest daughter Tiying cried sadly alone and followed her father to Chang'an. She wrote a letter saying: My father is an official, and people in Qi state praise him for being honest and fair. Now he should be punished for breaking the law.
I am saddened that the dead cannot be resurrected, and those who are under punishment cannot join their limbs together again. Although I want to change my ways, there is no way out.
I am willing to be taken into the government as a slave to atone for my father's punishment so that he can change his ways.
Tiying's petition was sent to the emperor. The emperor felt pity for her and issued an edict: I heard that during the Yu family, criminals were painted on their clothes and hats to make them different from ordinary people, in order to humiliate the criminals and the people did not violate the law.
What is the reason for this?
It's because the politics are extremely clear.
Now the law stipulates three types of corporal punishment, but evil and illegal things cannot be prohibited. Where is the fault?
Isn't it because my virtue is poor and my education is not obvious?
I am deeply ashamed of myself.
Therefore, if the method of preaching is wrong, the people will fall into ignorance. "Poetry" says that a gentleman who is approachable is the parents of the people.
Nowadays, when people make mistakes, they are punished without education. Some people want to change their ways and become good, but there is no way to do it. I pity these people very much. The punishment is so severe that it can break limbs, scratch the skin, and never recover for life. This is so painful and immoral. How does it meet the meaning of being a parent of the people!
Corporal punishment should be abolished.
The emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the world, and nothing is more important than this.
Nowadays, people who work hard in agricultural production have to pay taxes. This is because there is no distinction between people who work for the basics and those who pursue the future, and the method of persuading people to work in agriculture is incomplete.
Farmland should be exempted from rent and taxes.
In the winter of the 14th year, the Huns conspired to invade the border and invade the border fortress, and killed Sun Yin, the captain of Beidi County.
The emperor then sent three generals to station in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun. Lieutenant Zhou She was the general of the guard, and Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu was the general of the cavalry. They were stationed north of the Weishui River, commanding one thousand chariots and one hundred thousand cavalry.
The emperor personally comforted the soldiers, trained the troops, affirmed the teachings, and rewarded the officers and soldiers.
The emperor was preparing to personally lead troops to attack the Xiongnu. The ministers came out to dissuade him, but he refused to accept them.
The empress dowager firmly stopped the emperor, and the emperor canceled the original plan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
於是以东阳侯张相如为大将军，成侯赤为内史，栾布为将军，击匈奴。
匈奴遁走。
春，上曰： 朕获执牺牲珪币以事上帝宗庙，十四年于今，历日长，以不敏不明而久抚临天下，朕甚自愧。
其广增诸祀墠场珪币。
昔先王远施不求其报，望祀不祈其福，右贤左戚，先民後己，至明之极也。
今吾闻祠官祝釐，皆归福朕躬，不为百姓，朕甚愧之。
夫以朕不德，而躬享独美其福，百姓不与焉，是重吾不德。
其令祠官致敬，毋有所祈。
是时北平侯张苍为丞相，方明律历。
鲁人公孙臣上书陈终始传五德事，言方今土德时，土德应黄龙见，当改正朔服色制度。
天子下其事与丞相议。
丞相推以为今水德，始明正十月上黑事，以为其言非是，请罢之。
十五年，黄龙见成纪，天子乃复召鲁公孙臣，以为博士，申明土德事。
於是上乃下诏曰： 有异物之神见于成纪，无害於民，岁以有年。
朕亲郊祀上帝诸神。
礼官议，毋讳以劳朕。
有司礼官皆曰： 古者天子夏躬亲礼祀上帝於郊，故曰郊。
於是天子始幸雍，郊见五帝，以孟夏四月答礼焉。
赵人新垣平以望气见，因说上设立渭阳五庙。欲出周鼎，当有玉英见。
十六年，上亲郊见渭阳五帝庙，亦以夏答礼而尚赤。
十七年，得玉杯，刻曰 人主延寿 。
於是天子始更为元年，令天下大酺。
其岁，新垣平事觉，夷三族。
translation: 
So with Dongyang Hou Zhang Xiangru as the general, Cheng Hou Dong Chi as the internal history, and Luan Bu as the general, they sent troops to attack the Xiongnu.
The Huns fled.
In the spring, the emperor said: It has been fourteen years since I was able to offer sacrifices to heaven and the ancestral temple with jade and silk. After a long period of time, I feel deeply ashamed that a person like me, who is neither smart nor wise, has been in charge of the world for a long time.
The sites for various kinds of sacrifices should be expanded and the amount of jade and silk used for sacrifices should be increased.
In the past, the kings of the past showed kindness without asking for repayment, held sacrifices without praying for blessings for themselves, respected the virtuous and talented, but did not value relatives, put the people before themselves, and were sage to the extreme.
Now I heard that when the officials in charge of sacrifices prayed for blessings from the gods, they only prayed for me and not for the people. I feel very ashamed.
For an immoral person like me, I enjoy the blessings of gods alone and the common people cannot share them, which aggravates my immorality.
Now I order the officials in charge of sacrifices to pay respect to the gods on time and not to pray for me.
At this time, Zhang Cang, the Marquis of Beiping, was the prime minister and was formulating the music rhythm and calendar.
Gongsunchen, a native of Lu, wrote a letter describing the theory of the beginning and end of the Five Virtues. He proposed that now is the period of Tu De, and the Yellow Dragon will appear in Tu De. The calendar, the color of official uniforms, and various systems should be changed.
The emperor handed over the matter and asked the ministers to discuss it with the prime minister.
After studying it, the prime minister thought that today is water virtue, so he began to make it clear that October is the beginning of the year and that he advocates black.
Because he believed that Gongsun Chen's letter was incorrect, he requested that Gongsun Chen's suggestions not be adopted. In the fifteenth year, Huanglong appeared in Chengji, and the emperor once again summoned Gongsun Chen from Lu and appointed him as a doctor to explain the principles of Tude today.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: A strange divine object appeared in Chengji, which is harmless to the people. There will be a good harvest this year.
I personally went to the countryside to worship the Emperor of Heaven and other gods.
The officials in charge of etiquette discuss the etiquette that should be performed, and don't be afraid that I will be tired and hide something.
Ministers and officials in charge of etiquette said: In ancient times, the emperor personally went to the suburbs in summer to worship the gods according to rituals, so it was called "Jiao".
So the emperor came to Yong County for the first time and worshiped the Five Emperors in the suburbs. The ceremony was held in April in summer.
Xinyuan Ping, a native of Zhao, came to see the emperor with the art of looking at qi, and took the opportunity to persuade the emperor to build the Five Emperors Temple in Weiyang. He also said that in order to discover the Zhou Dynasty's national treasure tripod, the essence of jade should appear.
In the 16th year, the emperor personally worshiped the Five Emperors Temple in Weiyang, held sacrifices in the summer, and decided to advocate red.
In the seventeenth year, I got a jade cup with the words "The Master Extends His Life" engraved on it.
So the emperor began to change this year to the first year of Houyuan, and ordered the people of the world to hold grand gatherings, banquets and drinks.
In the same year, Aragaki's fraud was discovered and his three clans were executed.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
後二年，上曰： 朕既不明，不能远德，是以使方外之国或不宁息。
夫四荒之外不安其生，封畿之内勤劳不处，二者之咎，皆自於朕之德薄而不能远达也。
间者累年，匈奴并暴边境，多杀吏民，边臣兵吏又不能谕吾内志，以重吾不德也。
夫久结难连兵，中外之国将何以自宁？
今朕夙兴夜寐，勤劳天下，忧苦万民，为之怛惕不安，未尝一日忘於心，故遣使者冠盖相望，结轶於道，以谕朕意於单于。
今单于反古之道，计社稷之安，便万民之利，亲与朕俱弃细过，偕之大道，结兄弟之义，以全天下元元之民。
和亲已定，始于今年。
後六年冬，匈奴三万人入上郡，三万人入云中。
以中大夫令勉为车骑将军，军飞狐；故楚相苏意为将军，军句注；将军张武屯北地；河内守周亚夫为将军，居细柳；宗正刘礼为将军，居霸上；祝兹侯军棘门：以备胡。
数月，胡人去，亦罢。
天下旱，蝗。
帝加惠：令诸侯毋入贡，弛山泽，减诸服御狗马，损郎吏员，发仓庾以振贫民，民得卖爵。
孝文帝从代来，即位二十三年，宫室苑囿狗马服御无所增益，有不便，辄弛以利民。
尝欲作露台，召匠计之，直百金。
上曰： 百金中民十家之产，吾奉先帝宫室，常恐羞之，何以台为！
上常衣綈衣，所幸慎夫人，令衣不得曳地，帏帐不得文绣，以示敦朴，为天下先。
治霸陵皆以瓦器，不得以金银铜锡为饰，不治坟，欲为省，毋烦民。
南越王尉佗自立为武帝，然上召贵尉佗兄弟，以德报之，佗遂去帝称臣。
与匈奴和亲，匈奴背约入盗，然令边备守，不发兵深入，恶烦苦百姓。
吴王诈病不朝，就赐几杖。
群臣如袁盎等称说虽切，常假借用之。
群臣如张武等受赂遗金钱，觉，上乃发御府金钱赐之，以愧其心，弗下吏。
专务以德化民，是以海内殷富，兴於礼义。
後七年六月己亥，帝崩於未央宫。
translation: 
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor said: I am not wise and cannot spread virtue far away, so the countries outside the Central Plains are unrest.
The people in the remote areas around me cannot live peacefully, and the people in the country work hard and cannot live in peace. Both of these faults are due to my lack of morality and my inability to spread my virtue far away.
Recently, the Huns have been invading the border for many years, killing many officials and people. The officials and generals in the border area cannot understand my inner thoughts, which aggravates my bad behavior.
With such long-term wars and inexplicable disasters, how can the countries inside and outside the Central Plains find peace?
Now I get up early and go to bed late, working hard on the world's major affairs, feeling sad for thousands of people, feeling worried and uneasy in my heart, and I can't forget this matter even one day. Therefore, I sent envoys, with crowns and canopies facing each other on the road and rutted roads, to explain my thoughts to the Xiongnu Chanyu.
Now the Chanyu has returned to the correct path of ancient times, considering the peace of the country, seeking the interests of millions of people, personally abandoning those small mistakes with me, uniting on the correct principles, and forming a brotherly relationship to protect the good people of the world.
The marriage has been decided and will start this year.
In the winter of AD 6, 30,000 Xiongnu entered Shangjun, and 30,000 Xiongnu entered Yunzhong.
The emperor appointed Ling Mian, a senior official in the army, as the general of chariots and cavalry, stationed at Feihu; he appointed Su Yi, the former Prime Minister of Chu, as the general, stationed at Juzhu; General Zhang Wu garrisoned the north; Zhou Yafu, the governor of Hanoi County, garrisoned at Xiliu; Zongzheng Liu Li as the general, garrisoned at Ba Shang; Zhu Zihou garrisoned at Jimen to jointly defend against the Huns.
After a few months, the Huns withdrew, and the various armies also withdrew.
There was a drought and locust infestation across the country.
The emperor favored the world, ordered the princes not to pay tribute to the court, abolished the ban on mountains, forests and lakes, reduced the emperor's clothing, utensils, and dogs and horses for play, reduced the number of ministers, opened granaries, provided relief to the poor, and the people could sell their titles to buy food.
Emperor Xiaowen came to the capital from Daiguo and reigned for twenty-three years. Nothing was added to the palaces, gardens, dogs and horses, clothing, and utensils. If there were any inconveniences to the people, they were changed to benefit the people.
I once planned to build a terrace and asked a craftsman to calculate the cost. One hundred pounds of gold was needed.
The emperor said: One hundred kilograms of gold is equivalent to the property of ten families of ordinary people. I enjoy the palace of the late emperor, and I am often worried that I will humiliate the late emperor. Why build this terrace?
The emperor often wore thick silk clothes, and his beloved Mrs. Shen was not allowed to drag her clothes to the ground, and her draperies were not allowed to have embroidery or brocade in order to show her honesty and simplicity, and to set an example for the world.
All mausoleums are built with earthenware, and gold, silver, copper, and tin are not allowed to be used for decoration. No tall tombs are built, in order to save some money and not disturb the people.
The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo, proclaimed himself Emperor Wu, but the emperor called Wei Tuo's brother and gave high-ranking officials generous salaries in return. Wei Tuo canceled his imperial title and professed himself to the Han Dynasty.
After making peace with the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu violated the treaty and invaded the border to plunder. However, the emperor only ordered the border fortresses to strengthen their defense and did not send troops deep into the hinterland of the Xiongnu for fear of disturbing the people.
King Wu pretended to be ill and did not go to the capital to attend court. The emperor immediately rewarded him with a sitting table and a cane.
Although ministers such as Yuan An and others discussed matters sharply and urgently, the emperor often adopted their suggestions with a tolerant attitude.
Among the ministers, Zhang Wu and others accepted money bribes. When they found out, the emperor took out the money from his treasury and rewarded them, which made them feel ashamed and did not hand it over to the officials for punishment.
The emperor devoted himself wholeheartedly to educating the people with morality. Therefore, there was prosperity and a culture of paying attention to etiquette and justice in the four seas.
On June 1, the seventh year of AD, the emperor died in Weiyang Palace.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
遗诏曰： 朕闻盖天下万物之萌生，靡不有死。
死者天地之理，物之自然者，奚可甚哀。
当今之时，世咸嘉生而恶死，厚葬以破业，重服以伤生，吾甚不取。
且朕既不德，无以佐百姓；今崩，又使重服久临，以离寒暑之数，哀人之父子，伤长幼之志，损其饮食，绝鬼神之祭祀，以重吾不德也，谓天下何！
朕获保宗庙，以眇眇之身讬于天下君王之上，二十有馀年矣。赖天地之灵，社稷之福，方内安宁，靡有兵革。
朕既不敏，常畏过行，以羞先帝之遗德；维年之久长，惧于不终。
今乃幸以天年，得复供养于高庙。朕之不明与嘉之，其奚哀悲之有！
其令天下吏民，令到出临三日，皆释服。
毋禁取妇嫁女祠祀饮酒食肉者。
自当给丧事服临者，皆无践。绖带无过三寸，毋布车及兵器，毋发民男女哭临宫殿。
宫殿中当临者，皆以旦夕各十五举声，礼毕罢。
非旦夕临时，禁毋得擅哭。
已下，服大红十五日，小红十四日，纤七日，释服。
佗不在令中者，皆以此令比率从事。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
霸陵山川因其故，毋有所改。
归夫人以下至少使。
令中尉亚夫为车骑将军，属国悍为将屯将军，郎中令武为复土将军，发近县见卒万六千人，发内史卒万五千人，藏郭穿复土属将军武。
乙巳，群臣皆顿首上尊号曰孝文皇帝。
太子即位于高庙。丁未，袭号曰皇帝。
孝景皇帝元年十月，制诏御史： 盖闻古者祖有功而宗有德，制礼乐各有由。
闻歌者，所以发德也；舞者，所以明功也。
translation: 
His last edict before his death was: I heard that all things in the world grow and nothing survives death.
Death is a common phenomenon in heaven and earth, a natural phenomenon of all things, so why be overly sad.
Nowadays, people in the world are fond of life and hate death. They spend a lot of money on burials, which leads to bankruptcy, and they are in mourning for a long time, which harms the body. I do not agree with these practices.
Moreover, I was immoral during my lifetime and was of no benefit to the people. Now that I am dead, I have made people mourn for a long time, experience changes in cold and heat, make fathers and sons sad, hurt the hearts of young and old, reduce my diet, and cut off sacrifices to ghosts and gods. This has aggravated my immorality. How can I be worthy of the people of the world!
I have been able to guard the ancestral temple and stand above the princes and kings of the world as a small person for more than 20 years. I rely on the gods of heaven and earth, the welfare of the country, the peace of the country, and the absence of war.
I am not very smart, and I am often worried that I will do something wrong and bring disgrace to the legacy of the late Emperor. As time goes by, I am even more afraid that I will not die well.
Now I am lucky enough to be able to support and serve my great ancestor underground. With my unwiseness and such good results, what is there to be sad about?
Issue an order to the officials and people all over the world. After the order arrives, they will mourn for three days and then all take off their mourning clothes.
Do not prohibit marrying wives and daughters, offering sacrifices to ghosts and gods, and drinking and eating meat.
Those who should be in mourning should not wear mourning clothes. The girdle should not exceed three inches. Chariots and weapons should not be covered with mourning cloth. Men and women should not be mobilized to mourn in the palace.
Those who should mourn in the palace should cry fifteen times each morning and evening, and stop after the ceremony.
It is not the time to cry in the morning or evening. Do not cry without permission.
After the burial, one should wear mourning clothes of great merit for fifteen days, mourning clothes of minor merit for fourteen days, and fine mourning clothes for seven days, and then take off the mourning clothes.
All other matters not stipulated in the will shall be carried out in accordance with this will.
Announce it to the world so that people can understand my thoughts.
The mountains and rivers in Ba Ling should remain the same and should not be changed.
At least the ladies in the harem and below were sent home.
Lieutenant Zhou Yafu was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, Dian Guohan was appointed as the general of generals and generals, Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu was appointed as the general of restoration, and 16,000 existing soldiers from nearby counties were mobilized, and 15,000 active soldiers from the internal history were mobilized. They were under the command of general Zhang Wu, who was responsible for burying the coffins, piercing them and burying them.
On June 7, the ministers all kowtowed to the ground and honored the deceased emperor as Emperor Xiaowen.
The prince ascended the throne in Gaomiao and took the title of emperor on June 9th.
In October of the first year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he issued an edict to the imperial censor: It is said that in ancient times, emperors called themselves ancestors because they were meritorious people, and those who called themselves ancestors were virtuous people. There were certain reasons for making rituals and music.
I also heard that music and songs are used to promote morality, and dance is used to show merit.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高庙酎，奏武德、文始、五行之舞。
孝惠庙酎，奏文始、五行之舞。
孝文皇帝临天下，通关梁，不异远方。
除诽谤，去肉刑，赏赐长老，收恤孤独，以育群生。
减嗜欲，不受献，不私其利也。
罪人不帑，不诛无罪。
除刑，出美人，重绝人之世。
朕既不敏，不能识。
此皆上古之所不及，而孝文皇帝亲行之。
德厚侔天地，利泽施四海，靡不获福焉。
明象乎日月，而庙乐不称。朕甚惧焉。
其为孝文皇帝庙为昭德之舞，以明休德。
然后祖宗之功德著於竹帛，施于万世，永永无穷，朕甚嘉之。
其与丞相、列侯、中二千石、礼官具为礼仪奏。
丞相臣嘉等言： 陛下永思孝道，立昭德之舞以明孝文皇帝之盛德。皆臣嘉等愚所不及。
臣谨议：世功莫大於高皇帝，德莫盛於孝文皇帝，高皇庙宜为帝者太祖之庙，孝文皇帝庙宜为帝者太宗之庙。
天子宜世世献祖宗之庙。
郡国诸侯宜各为孝文皇帝立太宗之庙。
诸侯王列侯使者侍祠天子，岁献祖宗之庙。请著之竹帛，宣布天下。
制曰： 可。
太史公曰：孔子言 必世然後仁。
善人之治国百年，亦可以胜残去杀 。诚哉是言！
汉兴，至孝文四十有馀载，德至盛也。
廪廪乡改正服封禅矣，谦让未成於今。
呜呼，岂不仁哉！
孝文在代，兆遇大横。
宋昌建册，绛侯奉迎。
南面而让，天下归诚。
务农先籍，布德偃兵。
translation: 
They offer wine to the high temple and perform the dances of "Wude", "Wenzhi" and "Five Elements".
Serve wine at Xiaohui Temple and perform dances of "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Emperor Xiaowen ruled the world, and his husband Sai Jinliang had unimpeded access, and he treated people both far and near equally.
Abolish the crime of defamation, remove corporal punishment, reward the elderly, adopt lonely people, and nurture all living beings.
Reduce cravings, do not accept tribute items, and do not privately possess these benefits.
He who commits a crime will not confiscate his wife and children, and he will not kill an innocent person.
Abolition of castration, release of beauties from the harem, and great emphasis on the issue of heirs.
I'm not smart enough to fully understand these things.
These things were beyond the reach of ancient emperors, but Emperor Xiaowen did it himself.
The vastness of holy virtue is like heaven and earth, and its benefits flow to the four seas, and no one is without benefit.
His holy light is like the sun and the moon, but the music and dance in the temple do not match it. I am very scared and uneasy.
"Zhao De Dance" should be produced for the Emperor Xiaowen Temple to commend his beautiful morals.
Then record the merits of the ancestors in the annals of history and spread them throughout the ages, forever and ever. I highly praise them.
The ceremonial memorial should be drafted with the prime minister, the princes, the officials with the rank of Zhong Erqian Shi, and the officials in charge of the etiquette system.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia and others said: Your Majesty always thought of honoring the late emperor and made "Zhaode Dance" to show Emperor Xiaowen's great merits. This was something that the minister Shen Tujia and others could not think of due to their ignorance.
The ministers solemnly and respectfully suggested that the merits of a generation were greater than that of Emperor Gao, and that no one's virtues were greater than that of Emperor Xiaowen. Emperor Gao's temple should become the emperor's Taizu temple, and Emperor Xiaowen's temple should become the emperor's Taizong temple.
The world should sacrifice the temples of ancestors from generation to generation.
The princes of various prefectures and states should build Taizong temples for Emperor Xiaowen.
The envoys of princes, kings and princes accompany the emperor to offer sacrifices. The emperor sacrifices sacrifices to the ancestors' temples every year. Please record these regulations in writing and announce them to the whole country.
Emperor Jing ordered: "Okay."
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said that thirty years must pass before benevolent government can succeed.
A person with good moral character who governs the country for a hundred years can defeat cruelty and abolish punishment. This is really true!
From the founding of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Xiaowen for more than 40 years, virtue flourished to its peak.
Gradually, we are getting closer to the goal of revising the calendar, determining the color of clothes, and holding a Zen ceremony. However, due to Emperor Wen's humility, it has not been completed yet. ah!
Isn't this benevolence?
When Emperor Xiaowen of the Han Dynasty was in the Dai Kingdom, he received a divination sign indicating that the emperor would ascend the throne.
Song Chang decided to serve as the emperor's policy, and Jianghou Zhou Bo came to greet him outside the city.
He could be the emperor, but he took the initiative to refuse, so everyone in the world turned to him.
He attached great importance to agriculture and worked in the fields himself; he extended kindness and stopped fighting.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
除帑削谤，政简刑清。
綈衣率俗，露台罢营。
法宽张武，狱恤缇萦。
霸陵如故，千年颂声。
translation: 
He eliminates the plunder of the people and eliminates the complaints of the people; he simplifies administration and makes punishments fair and clear.
He ushered in austerity by dressing simply and stopped building terraces.
Treat Zhang Wu leniently when enforcing the law, and show mercy to Tiying when executing punishment.
Up to now, Ba Ling is still the same as before, and the voices praising Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty have continued for thousands of years.


