Chunk 0: 
original: 
光武皇帝十一子：郭皇后生东海恭王彊、沛献王辅、济南安王康、阜陵质王延、中山简王焉，许美人生楚王英，光烈皇后生显宗、东平宪王苍、广陵思王荆、临淮怀公衡、琅邪孝王京。
东海恭王彊。建武二年，立母郭氏为皇后，彊为皇太子。
十七年而郭后废，彊常戚戚不自安，数因左右及诸王陈其恳诚，愿备蕃国。
光武不忍，迟回者数岁，乃许焉。
十九年，封为东海王，二十八年，就国。
帝以彊废不以过，去就有礼，故优以大封，兼食鲁郡，合二十九县。
赐虎贲旄头，宫殿设钟之县，拟于乘舆。
彊临之国，数上书让还东海，又因皇太子固辞。
帝不许，深嘉叹之，以彊章宣示公卿。
初，鲁恭王好宫室，起灵光殿，甚壮丽，是时犹存，故诏彊都鲁。
中元元年入朝，从封岱山，因留京师。
明年春，帝崩。
冬，归国。
永平元年，彊病，显宗遣中常侍钩盾令将太医乘驿视疾，诏沛王辅、济南王康、淮阳王延诣鲁。
及薨，临命上疏谢曰：臣蒙恩得备籓辅，特受二国，宫室礼乐，事事殊异，巍巍无量，讫无报称。
而自修不谨，连年被疾，为朝廷忧念。
translation: 
Emperor Guangwu had eleven sons: Queen Guo gave birth to King Gong of Donghai Liu Qiang, King of Peixian Liu Fu, King An of Jinan Liu Kang, King Zhi of Fuling Liu Yan, King Jian of Zhongshan Liu Yan.
◆In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Prince Gong of Donghai, Liu Qiang, made his mother Guo the queen and Liu Qiang the crown prince.
In the seventeenth year, Empress Guo was deposed. Liu Qiang was worried and uneasy. He expressed his wish to the kings many times and expressed his willingness to prepare the country of Fan.
Emperor Guangwu couldn't bear it, so he was slow to answer, and it took several years before he agreed.
In the 19th year, Liu Qiang was named the King of East China Sea. Twenty-eight years later, we arrived at the fiefdom.
The emperor believed that Liu Qiang was deposed not because of his own fault, but because he was polite when he went there, so he gave preferential treatment to Dafeng and also took control of Yilu County, a total of twenty-nine counties.
He was also given a tiger head, and there were bells and drums in the palace, as well as riding horses.
When Liu Qiang arrived at the fiefdom, he wrote several times to return the East China Sea, and asked the crown prince to resolutely resign.
The emperor did not agree. He sighed with deep approval and showed Liu Qiang's memorial to the ministers.
At first, King Lu Gong liked to build palaces and built the Lingguang Palace, which was very magnificent and still existed at this time. Therefore, the emperor issued an edict to let Liu Qiang make Lu his capital.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he entered the imperial court and followed the emperor to grant Zen to Mount Tai, so he stayed in the capital.
In the spring of the next year, the emperor died.
In winter, Liu Qiang returned to his fief.
In the first year of Yongping, Liu Qiang fell ill. Chang Shidun of the Xian sect ordered the imperial physician to take a post car to see a doctor. He ordered King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Kang of Jinan, and King Liu Yan of Huaiyang to wait for Lu.
When Liu Qiang died, he thanked him on his deathbed and said: "I have been blessed by God to be a supporter of Tibet. I have received special support from two countries. I have been given the courtesy and music in the palace. Everything is different. My great virtues are immeasurable, but I have never repaid you."
However, he was careless in self-cultivation, fell ill for many years, and was worried about by the court.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
皇太后、陛下哀怜臣彊，感动发中，数遣使者太医令丞方伎道术，络绎不绝。
臣伏惟厚恩，不知所言。
臣内自省视，气力羸劣，日夜浸困，终不复望见阙庭，奉承帷幄，孤负重恩，衔恨黄泉。
身既夭命孤弱，复为皇太后、陛下忧虑，诚悲诚惭。
息政，小人也，猥当袭臣后，必非所以全利之也。
诚愿还东海郡。
天恩愍哀，以臣无男之故，处臣三女小国侯，此臣宿昔常计。
今天下新罹大忧，惟陛下加供养皇太后，数进御餐。
臣彊困劣，言不能尽意。
愿并谢诸王，不意永不复相见也。
天子览书悲恸，从太后出幸津门亭发哀。
使司空持节护丧事，大鸿胪副，宗正、将作大匠视丧事，赠以殊礼，升龙、旄头、鸾辂、龙旂、虎贲百人。
诏楚王英、赵王栩、北海王兴、馆陶公主、比阳公主及京师亲戚四姓夫人、小侯皆会葬。
translation: 
The Empress Dowager and Your Majesty took pity on me and were moved in their hearts. They sent envoys and imperial doctors several times to order the Prime Minister to use tricks and techniques.
Whenever I think of kindness, I don’t know what to say.
The ministers self-examined themselves, their strength was weak, and they became increasingly sleepy day and night. In the end, they no longer saw the imperial palace, flattered the curtains, failed to live up to the emperor's great kindness, and had to hate Jiuquan.
Since I am short-lived and lonely, and my Majesty the Queen Mother is worried, I feel really sad and ashamed.
His son, Liu Zheng, was originally a villain. After becoming an intruder, it would definitely not be the best way to benefit all.
My heart is willing to return it to Donghai County.
Tianen sympathized with his ministers, thinking that he did not have many sons, and arranged for his three daughters to be marquises of small countries. This was a personal plot of his own, and Tianen did not dare to forget it.
Today is the time when Emperor Guangwu is about to pass away. I only hope that Your Majesty will make more efforts to support the Empress Dowager and enjoy her royal meals.
The minister is strong, trapped and weak, and his words cannot fully convey his meaning.
I hope to thank the kings, but I didn't expect that Cheng would never see each other again.
The emperor was very sad after reading the book, and the queen mother went out to Jinmen Pavilion to express her condolences.
The chief minister, Kongzhijie, was sent to guard the funeral. Dahong, his deputy, and Zongzheng, the general, were the chief craftsmen. They treated the funeral as a special ceremony and presented them with special etiquette: rising dragons, jiaotou, luan chariots, dragons, and tigers.
The king of Chu Liu Ying, the king of Zhao Liu Xu, the king of Beihai Liu Xing, Princess Guantao, Princess Biyang and the wives of the four surnames of Jing Qi and Xiaohou all came to attend the funeral.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
帝追惟彊深执谦俭，不欲厚葬以违其意，于是特诏中常侍杜岑及东海傅相曰： 王恭谦好礼，以德自终，遣送之物，务从约省，衣足敛形，茅车瓦器，物减于制，以彰王卓尔独行之志。
二十年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
沛献王辅，建武十五年封右翊公。
十七年，郭后废为中山太后，故徙辅为中山王，并食常山郡。
二十年，复徙封沛王。
时，禁网尚疏，诸王皆在京师，竞修名誉，争礼四方宾客。寿光侯刘鲤，更始子也，得幸于辅。
鲤怨刘盆子害其父，因辅结客，报杀盆子兄故式侯恭，辅坐系诏狱，三日乃得出。
自是后，诸王宾客多坐刑罚，各循法度。
二十八年，就国。
中元二年，封辅子宝为沛侯。
永平元年，封宝弟嘉为僮侯。
薨，子契嗣；魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
楚王英，以建武十五年封为楚公，十七年进爵为王，二十八年就国。
母许氏无宠，故英国最贫小。
三十年，以临淮之取虑、须昌二县益楚国。
自显宗为太子时，英常独归附太子，太子特亲爱之。
及即位，数受赏赐。
永平元年，特封英舅子许昌为龙舒侯。
英少时好游侠，交通宾客，晚节更喜黄老，学为浮屠斋戒祭祀。
translation: 
The emperor recalled that Liu Qiang was very modest and frugal and did not want to be buried lavishly to violate his wishes, so he issued a special edict to Du Cen and Donghai Fu Xiang: "The king is courteous and courteous, and he lives his life with virtue. The things he sends are kept in accordance with the rules, the clothes can be kept in shape, and the carriages and pottery are kept within the limits, in order to commend the king's unique ambition."
A great craftsman will be left to build a mausoleum and temple. Liu Qiangli is eighteen years old and is thirty-four years old. Liu Zheng, the king of Zijing, was the heir.
◆The biography of Peixian King Liu Fu, Liu Fu was granted the title of Duke Youyi in the fifteenth year of Jianwu.
In the seventeenth year, Empress Guo was deposed as the Empress Dowager of Zhongshan, so Liu Fu moved to become the King of Zhongshan and took control of Changshan County.
Twenty years later, he was granted the title of King of Pei.
At that time, the forbidden net was still sparse, and all the kings were in the capital, vying for reputation and vying to treat guests from all over. Shouguang Hou Liu Li, the son of Emperor Gengshi, was favored by Liu Fu.
Liu Li complained that Liu Penzi had killed his father, and through the guests Liu Fu befriended, he reported the death of Liu Penzi's brother, the Marquis Liu Gong. Liu Fu was imprisoned and was released after three days.
From then on, the kings and guests were punished frequently and acted according to the law.
Twenty-eight years later, we arrived at the fiefdom.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Liu Bao, the son of Liu Fu, was granted the title of Peihou.
In the first year of Yongping, Liu Jia, Liu Bao's younger brother, was granted the title of Tonghou.
Liu Fu was a dignified and disciplined man who loved classics. He was good at expounding the "Jing Shiyi", "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects" and prophecies. He wrote the "Treatise on the Five Classics", which was called "Pei Wang Tong Lun" at that time.
He is cautious, disciplined and consistent in his fiefdom, and is called a wise king. Xianzong respected him and rewarded him several times. Liu Fuli died in the forty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Ding, king of Li, was his heir. ◆In the biography of King Liu Ying of Chu, Liu Ying was granted the title of Duke of Chu in the fifteenth year of Jianwu. In the seventeenth year of his reign, he was promoted to the title of king. In the twenty-eighth year of his reign, he became a fief.
His mother, Mrs. Xu, had never been favored, so Liu Ying was the poorest and youngest in the country.
In the 30th year, the emperor added the two counties of Linhuai and Xuchang to the Chu State.
Since Xianzong became Taizong, Liu Ying often attached himself to the prince alone, and the prince loved him very much.
When the prince came to the throne, he was rewarded several times.
In the first year of Yongping, Xuchang, Liu Ying's brother-in-law, was granted the title of Longshu Hou.
When Liu Ying was young, she was fond of wandering and socializing with guests. In her later years, she was even more fond of Huangdi and Laozi, and studied Buddhism, fasting, and sacrifices.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
八年，诏令天下死罪入缣赎。
英遣郎中令奉黄缣白纨三十匹诣国相曰： 托在蕃辅，过恶累积，欢喜大恩，奉送缣帛，以赎愆罪。
国相以闻，诏报曰： 楚王诵黄老之微言，尚浮屠之仁祠，洁斋三月，与神为誓，何嫌何疑，当有悔吝？
其还赎，以助伊蒲塞桑门之盛馔。
因以班示诸国中傅。
英后遂大交通方士，作金龟玉鹤，刻文字以为符瑞。
十三年，男子燕广告英与渔阳王平、颜忠等造作图书，有逆谋，事下案验。
有司奏英招聚奸猾，造作图谶，擅相官秩，置诸侯王公将军二千石，大逆不道，请诛之。
帝以亲亲不忍，乃废英，徙丹阳泾县，赐汤沐邑五百户。
遣大鸿胪持节护送，使伎人奴俾工技鼓吹悉从，得乘辎軿，持兵弩，行道射猎，极意自娱。
男女为侯主者，食邑如故。
楚太后勿上玺绶，留住楚宫。
明年，英至丹阳，自杀。
立三十三年，国除。
translation: 
For eight years, it was decreed that all people in the world who had committed capital crimes could atone for their sins.
Liu Ying sent his lieutenant to bring thirty pieces of yellow silk and white silk to the Prime Minister and said: "I remember that I have done many wrongs in Fanfu. I am very happy to be so kind. I will give you this silk silk to atone for my sins."
The Prime Minister reports to the superior. The edict stated: The King of Chu recited the subtle words of Huangdi and Laozi, liked the Ren Temple of Buddhism, and swore an oath to the gods in the third month of Xie Zhai. Why should there be any suspicion or regret?
He returned the silk he handed over to help the monk who lived nearby prepare a feast for him.
So the class showed it to the masters of various countries.
Later, Liu Ying made friends with alchemists, made golden tortoises and jade cranes, and carved inscriptions as talismans.
In the thirteenth year, a man, Yan Guang, accused Liu Ying, Wang Ping, Yan Zhong and others of Yuyang of fabricating books with the intention of treason, and the case was submitted to trial.
An official reported that Liu Ying had recruited cunning people, concocted prophecies, was good at ministering to officials, and set up princes, princes, and generals with two thousand stones, and was extremely treasonous, so he requested that he be killed.
The emperor felt that the kiss could not be tolerated, so he deposed Liu Ying, moved to Danyang Jing County, and granted Tang Muyi 500 households.
Dahong was sent to escort him with integrity, and his servants and servants were encouraged to accompany him. He was also allowed to ride in a clothing cart, hold a crossbow, and go hunting on the road, hoping to find happiness for himself.
If a man and a woman are the lords of the marquis, the food and land will remain the same.
The Queen Mother of Chu does not need to hand over the seal and ribbon, and can stay in the Chu Palace.
The next year, Liu Ying arrived in Danyang and committed suicide.
Thirty-three years after the founding of the country, the country was eliminated.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
诏遣光禄大夫持节吊祠，赠帽如法，加赐列侯印绶，以诸侯礼葬于泾。
遣中黄门占护其妻子。
悉出楚官属无辞语者。
制诏许太后曰： 国家始闻楚事，幸其不然。
既知审实，怀用悼灼，庶欲宥全王身，令保卒天年，而王不念顾太后，竟不自免。
此天命也，无可奈何！
太后其保养幼弱，勉强饮食。
诸许愿王富贵，人情也。已诏有司，出其有谋者，令安田宅。
于是封燕广为折奸侯。
楚狱遂至累年，其辞语相连，自京师亲戚诸侯州郡豪杰及考案吏，阿附相陷，坐死徙者以千数。
十五年，帝幸彭城，见许太后及英妻子于内殿，悲泣，感动左右。
建初二年，肃宗封英子种楚侯，五弟皆为列侯，并不得置相臣吏人。
济南安王康，建武十五年封济南公，十七年进爵为王，二十八年就国。
三十年，以平原之祝阿、安德、朝阳、平昌、隰阴、重丘六县益济南国。
中元二年，封康子德为东武城侯。
康在国不循法度，交通宾客。
其后，人上书告康招来州郡奸猾渔阳颜忠，刘子产等，又多遗其缯帛，案图书，谋议不轨。
事下考，有司举奏之，显宗以亲亲故，不忍穷竟其事，但削祝阿、隰阴、东朝阳、安德、西平昌五县。建初八年，肃宗复还所削地，康遂多殖财货，大修宫室，奴婢至千四百人，厩马千二百匹，私田八百顷，奢侈恣欲，游观无节。
永元初，国傅何敞上疏谏康曰：盖闻诸侯之义，制节谨度，然后能保其社稷，和其民人。
translation: 
The emperor issued an edict to send Dr. Guanglu to pay homage to the temple, give him gifts according to the law, and give seals and ribbons to the princes, and he was buried in Jing with the rites of princes.
He sent Zhonghuangmen to guard his wife.
All the officials who moved out of Chu were speechless.
The imperial edict was sent to Empress Dowager Xu: The country has heard about the affairs of Chu State and hopes that he will not be like this.
Having found out the truth, he felt anxious and uneasy in his heart. He wanted to forgive him and save his body so that he could live to an old age, but Wang did not care about the Queen Mother and died of his own accord.
This is destiny, there is nothing we can do!
The Queen Mother was young and weak and could barely increase her diet.
It is human nature to make a wish for the king to be rich and noble. He has issued an edict to drive out those who participated in the rebellion and ordered An Tianzhai to be settled.
So Yan Guang was granted the title of Zhejiao Hou.
The Chu prison was dragged on for several years, and those who were implicated in their words included relatives from the capital, heroes from the princes, prefectures and counties, officials who examined cases, and subordinates who flattered each other. Thousands of them committed capital crimes and were exiled to the army.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited Pengcheng and saw Empress Dowager Xu and Liu Yingzi in the inner hall. They were crying sadly and moved everyone around.
In the second year of Jianchu's reign, Emperor Suzong made Liu Ying's son the Marquis of Chu, and his five younger brothers were all Marquises of Lieutenant, and no ministers or officials were allowed.
◆The biography of Liu Kang, King An of Jinan, Liu Kang was granted the title of Duke of Jinan in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, became a king in the seventeenth year, and became a fief in the twenty-eighth year.
In the 30th year, the imperial court added the six counties of Zhua, Ande, Chaoyang, Pingchang, Xiyin, and Chongqiu in the plains to the Kingdom of Jinan.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Liu De, Liu Kang's son, was granted the title of Marquis of Dongwu City.
Liu Kang did not abide by the laws and socialize with guests in the fiefdom.
Later, someone wrote a letter to accuse Liu Kang of recruiting Yuyang Yanzhong, Liu Zichan, etc., who were cunning and cunning people from the prefecture and county. They also sent a lot of silk and case books to conspire against him.
The case was investigated and a court official reported it. Xianzong thought it was because of relatives and could not bear to get to the bottom of the matter, so he only eliminated Zhua and other five counties. In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Suzong returned the lost land. Liu Yong increased his wealth, overhauled his palace, raised 1,400 slaves, raised 1,200 horses in stables, and had 800 hectares of private land. He was extravagant and indulgent, and he also traveled without restraint.
In the early years of the Yongyuan Dynasty, He Chang, the governor of the state, came to Liu Kangdao to admonish him: I heard that the original meaning of the princes is to exercise restraint and restrain themselves, and then they can protect their territory and live in harmony with their people.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
大王以骨肉之亲，享食茅土，当施张政令，明其典法，出入进止，宜有期度，舆马台隶，应为科品。
而今奴婢厩马皆有千余，增无用之口，以自蚕食。
官婢闭隔，失其天性，惑乱和气。
又多起内第，触犯防禁，费以巨万，而功犹未半。
夫文繁者质荒，木盛者人亡，皆非所以奉礼承上，传福无穷者也。
故楚作章华以凶，吴兴姑苏而灭，景公千驷，民无称焉。
今数游诸第，晨夜无节，又非所以远防未然，临深履薄之法也。
立三年薨，子悼王广嗣。永建五年，封广弟文为乐城亭侯。
广立二十五年，永兴元年薨，无子，国除。
东平宪王苍，建武十五年封东平公，十七年进爵为王。
苍少好经书，雅有智思，为人美须髯，腰带八围，显宗甚爱重之。
及即位，拜为骠骑将军，置长史掾史员四十人，位在三公上。
永平元年，封苍子二人为且侯。
二年，以东郡之寿张、须昌，山阳之南平阳、橐、湖陵五县益东平国。
是时中兴三十余年，四方无虞，苍以天下化平，宜修礼乐，乃与公卿共议定南北郊冠冕车服制度，及光武庙登歌八佾舞数，语在《礼乐》、《舆服志》。
translation: 
The king is a relative of flesh and blood and enjoys eating thatched soil. He should issue political orders and clarify the laws. There should be timetables for entry and exit, and there should be regulations for traveling with horses and clergy.
But now there are more than a thousand slaves, maids, stables, and horses, adding useless bits for self-cannibalization.
The maidservants were locked inside, losing their nature and becoming confused and harmonious.
Many inner houses violated the prohibition, the cost was huge, and the construction was less than half.
Too much literature will lead to lack of substance, and too many civil works will kill people. These are not ways to carry forward the rites and spread endless blessings.
Therefore, Chu built the Zhanghua Palace and suffered disaster; King Wu built the Gusu Terrace and the country was destroyed; Qi Jinggong raised a thousand horses, but the people did not praise him.
Now I am traveling to various places, without restraint in the morning and evening. It is not a way to take precautions before things happen, and to be in deep trouble.
May the king cultivate the virtues of courtesy and frugality, abide by the ancient system, reduce the number of slaves and maidservants, save the number of horses, eliminate the wealth of private fields, travel and watch feasts, and live according to etiquette, then I can dare to feel at ease and protect myself. King hope thinks deeply about foolish words.
Liu Kang had always respected He Chang, and although he had no resistance, he could never change his ways. Liu Kangli died in the fifty-ninth year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Cuo, King Jian.
◆The biography of Dongping Xian Wang Liu Cang, Liu Cang, was named Dongping Gong in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Cang was fond of reading scriptures when he was young, and he was quite intelligent. He had a good beard and a thick waist. Xianzong loved him very much.
After he ascended the throne, he was granted the title of General of Hussars and appointed forty chief historians, ranking above the Three Dukes.
In the first year of Yongping, the two sons of Feng Cang were appointed as Xuanhou.
In the second year, Shouzhang and Xuchang of Dongjun and Pingyang, Nang and Huling counties of Nanshanyang were added to Dongping Kingdom.
At this time, it had been more than 30 years since the ZTE, and there were no worries in the four directions. Liu Cang believed that the world was in peace, and rituals and music should be cultivated, so he and his ministers jointly agreed on the system of crowns, carriages and uniforms in the northern and southern suburbs, and the number of eight-hundred-meter dances in Guangwu Temple, which he wrote in "Rituals and Music" and "Yu Fu Zhi".


Chunk 6: 
original: 
帝每巡狩，苍常留镇，侍卫皇太后。
四年春，车驾近出，观览城第，寻闻当遂校猎河内，苍即上书谏曰： 臣闻时令，盛春农事，不聚众兴功。
传曰： 田猎不宿，食饮不享，出入不节，则木不曲直。
此失春令者也。
臣知车驾今出，事从约省，所过吏人讽诵《甘棠》之德。
虽然，动不以礼，非所以示四方也。
惟陛下因行田野，循视稼穑，消摇仿佯，弭节而旋。
至秋冬，乃振威灵，整法驾，备周卫，设羽旄。
《诗》云： 抑抑威仪，惟德之隅。
臣不胜愤懑，伏自手书，乞诣行在所，极陈至诚。
帝览奏，即还宫。
苍在朝数载，多所隆益，而自以至亲辅政，声望日重，意不自安，上疏归职曰：臣苍疲驽，特为陛下慈恩覆护，在家备教导之仁，升朝蒙爵命之首，制书褒美，班之四海，举负薪之才，升君子之器。
凡匹夫一介，尚不忘箪食之惠，况臣居宰相之位，同气之亲哉！
宜当暴骸膏野，为百僚先，而愚顽之质，加以固病，诚羞负乘，辱污辅将之位，将被诗人 三百赤绂 之刺。
今方域晏然，要荒无儆，将遵上德无为之时也，文官犹可并省，武职尤不宜建。
translation: 
Every time the emperor went on a hunting tour, Liu Cang often stayed behind to guard the empress dowager.
In the spring of the fourth year, the emperor drove out to inspect the houses in the city. Soon he heard that he was going to Hanoi for hunting. Liu Cang wrote to dissuade him, saying: "I heard that the season is in season and farming is very busy in the peak spring, so we should not gather people to make meritorious deeds."
Ancient books say: If there is no place to stay in the field while hunting, no food and drink to enjoy, and no regularity in going in and out, then the trees will not be straight.
This is the practice of losing the spring order.
I know that the chariot is out today, and the affairs are from the province. Wherever it passes, the officials recite the virtues of "Gantang".
Even so, the actions are not in accordance with etiquette and are not a demonstration for everyone.
I hope that your majesty will patrol the fields, look at the crops, pretend to be distant, and return according to the festival.
In the autumn and winter, it is only then that the spirit is revitalized, the Dharma is rectified, the Zhou guards are prepared, and the feathers are set up.
The Book of Songs says: Suppressing dignity is the corner of virtue.
I couldn't help but worry in my heart, so I wrote in my own handwriting, begging to express my sincerity wherever Your Majesty arrives.
After the emperor saw it, he immediately returned to the palace.
Liu Cang had been in the government for several years and had done many useful things. However, he felt that he was personally assisting the government and his reputation was getting higher and higher day by day. He felt a little uneasy, so he went to Shu and asked to be reinstated.
A common man never forgets the kindness of a basket of rice. Kuang Chen, who is in the position of prime minister, has a sense of brotherhood.
He should die in the wild and set an example for all officials, but he is stupid and stubborn, and he is sick. He is indeed ashamed to bear the responsibility and insults the position of assistant general. He will be satirized by the poet "Three Hundred Red Fus".
Now that the area is safe and there are no warnings in the remote areas, it is the time to abide by the highest virtue and govern by doing nothing. Civilian officials can still be included in the province, but military posts should not be added.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔象封有鼻，不任以政，诚由爱深，不忍扬其过恶。
前事之不忘，来事之师也。
自汉兴以来，宗室子弟无得在公卿位者。
惟陛下审览虞帝优养母弟，遵承旧典，终卒厚恩。
乞上骠骑将军印绶，退就蕃国，愿蒙哀怜。
帝优诏不听。
其后数陈乞，辞甚恳切。
五年，乃许还国，而不听上将军印绶。
以骠骑长史为东平太傅，掾为中大夫，令史为王家郎。
加赐钱五千万，布十万匹。
六年冬，帝幸鲁，征苍从还京师。
明年，皇太后崩。
既葬，苍乃归国，特赐宫人奴婢五百人，布二十五万匹，及珍宝服御器物。
十一年，苍与诸王朝京师。
月余，还国。
帝临送归宫，凄然怀思，乃遣使手诏国中傅曰： 辞别之后，独坐不乐，因就车归，伏轼而吟，瞻望永怀，实劳我心，诵及《采菽》，以增叹息。
日者问东平王处家何等最乐，王言为善最乐，其言甚大，副是要腹矣。
今送列侯印十九枚，诸王子年五岁已上能趋拜者，皆令带之。
十五年春，行幸东平，赐苍钱千五百万，布四万匹。
translation: 
In ancient times, Xiang was granted the title of Youbi by Shun and was not involved in political affairs. Because of the deep love of the king, he could not bear to expose his evildoings.
Not forgetting the past is a good example for the future.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, no descendants of the clan have held high positions in public affairs.
I hope that your majesty will review Yu Shun's approach to raising his mother and brother, abide by the old rules, and die with kindness in the end.
Please give me the seal of the hussar general and retreat to your own fiefdom, hoping to receive love and mercy.
Emperor You didn't listen to the edict.
After that, I presented it many times and my words were very sincere.
He was allowed to return to the country after five years, but he did not receive the general's seal.
The chief minister of Qingqi was appointed Taifu of Dongping, Peng was appointed as the middle official, and Lingshi was appointed as Wang Jialang.
Give an additional 50 million yuan and 100,000 pieces of cloth.
In the winter of the sixth year, the emperor visited the state of Lu and summoned Liu Cang to follow him back to the capital.
The next year, the Queen Mother died.
After the burial, Liu Cang returned to his fiefdom. The emperor gave him 500 slaves, 250,000 pieces of cloth, and precious clothing and utensils.
In the eleventh year, Liu Cang and the capitals of various dynasties.
After more than a month, I returned to China.
When the emperor was sent back to the palace, he missed him sadly, so he sent an envoy with an imperial edict to paint the king Fu Dao: After saying goodbye, he felt unhappy sitting alone, so he came back by car, leaned on the crossbar in front of the car and recited a poem: Looking forward forever, it really works my heart, and I recite "Cai Shu" to increase my sighs.
Some time ago, I asked King Dongping how happy he was at home. The king said that doing good deeds is the happiest. His words were loud and spoke deep in his heart.
Nineteen princes' seals are now given to the princes. Princes over five years old who are able to worship are asked to bring them with them.
In the spring of the 15th year, the emperor visited Dongping and gave Liu Cang 15 million yuan and 40,000 pieces of cloth.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
帝以所作《光武本纪》示苍，苍因上《光武受命中兴颂》。
帝甚善之，以其文典雅，特令校书郎贾逵为之训诂。
肃宗即位，尊重恩礼逾于前世，诸王莫与为比。
建初元年，地震，苍上便宜，其事留中。
帝报书曰： 丙寅所上便宜三事，朕亲自览读，反复数周，心开目明，旷然发矇。
间吏人奏事，亦有此言，但明智浅短，或谓傥是，复虑为非，何者？
灾异之降，缘政而见。
今改元之后，年饥人流，此朕之不德感应所致。
又冬春旱甚，所被尤广，虽内用克责，而不知所定。
得王深策，快然意解。
《诗》不云乎： 未见君子，忧心忡忡；既见君子，我心则降。
思惟嘉谋，以次奉行，冀蒙福应。
彰报至德，特赐王钱五百万。
后帝欲为原陵、显节陵起县邑，苍闻之，遽上疏谏曰：伏闻当为二陵起立郭邑，臣前颇谓道路之言，疑不审实，近令从官古霸问涅阳主疾，使还，乃知诏书已下。
translation: 
The emperor showed Liu Cang his work "The Chronicles of Guangwu", and Liu Cang wrote "Ode to Guangwu's Death".
The emperor thought it was very good and the article was very elegant, so he specially ordered the school secretary Jia Kui to make annotations.
When Suzong came to the throne, his respect and kindness to Liu Cang exceeded that of previous generations. No one among the kings could compare with him.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, there was an earthquake. Liu Cang wrote a letter and talked about several things, but they were kept in the ban.
The emperor replied: I personally read several things mentioned in Bingyin's letter and repeated them several times. My mind is enlightened and I seem to understand a lot.
Normally, officials would say this when reporting on matters, but their wisdom was shallow and short-sighted. Some people said that if this was the case, it would be wrong to consider it.
Why? Disasters happen because of politics.
Now after the Yuan Dynasty, there is famine and the people are scattered. This is caused by my poor virtue.
In addition, the drought in winter and spring was severe and the area was very wide. Even if it was used internally to overcome the responsibilities, it was unclear how to deal with it.
After getting the king's profound advice, I quickly understood it.
Didn't "The Book of Songs" say: Before I see a gentleman, I am worried; when I see a gentleman, my heart is filled with worry.
I thought of some of your good ideas and decided to follow them in order, hoping to get good retribution.
In recognition of your virtue, I will give you five million yuan.
Later, the emperor wanted to build a county for Yuanling and Xianjie Ling. Liu Cang heard about it and hurriedly sent a message: I heard that you will build Guoyi for the two mausoleums. I thought it was just hearsay and it was not true. Recently, I sent the official Guba to visit Princess Niyang's illness. When the envoy came back, I learned that the edict had been issued.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
窃见光武皇帝躬履俭约之行，深睹始终之分，勤勤恳恳，以葬制为言，故营建陵地，具称古典，诏曰 无为山陵，陂池裁令流水而已 。
孝明皇帝大孝无违，奉承贯行。
至于自所营创，尤为俭省，谦德之美，于斯为盛。
臣愚以园邑之兴，始自强秦。
古者丘陇且不欲其著明，岂况筑郭邑，建都郛哉！
上违先帝圣心，下造无益之功，虚费国用，动摇百姓，非所以致和气，祈丰年也。
又以吉凶俗数言之，亦不欲无故缮修丘墓，有所兴起。考之古法则不合，稽之时宜则违人，求之吉凶复未见其福。
陛下履有虞之至性，追祖祢之深思，然惧左右过议，以累圣心。
臣苍诚伤二帝纯德之美，不暢于无穷也。
惟蒙哀览。
帝从而止。
自是朝廷每有疑政，辄驿使咨问。
苍悉心以对，皆见纳用。
三年，帝飨卫士于南宫，因从皇太后周行掖庭池阁，乃阅阴太后旧时器服，怆然动容，乃命留五时衣各一袭，及常所御衣合五十箧，余悉分布诸王主及子孙在京师者各有差。
translation: 
I have seen Emperor Guangwu personally fulfill the virtue of frugality, and I have a deep understanding of the difference between persistence and diligence. In terms of burial system, the construction of the mausoleum is based on classical principles. The edict said: It is not a mountain mausoleum.
Emperor Xiaoming's great filial piety did not violate the teachings and implemented them conscientiously.
As for what he created, he was particularly frugal and modest in his virtues, which reached its peak.
The ministers were foolish and thought that the construction of the garden city started with the strengthening of the Qin Dynasty.
In ancient times, there were no graves but tombs because they didn’t want them to be conspicuous, let alone building a city or a capital!
Going against the late emperor's sacred heart, constructing useless projects, wasting state funds, and shaking the hearts of the people are not ways to bring peace and prosperity.
In terms of the number of good and bad fortunes, I don't want to repair the tombs for no reason, and there will be a rise. The ancient methods are not consistent, and the current investigation is against people's hearts. Looking for good or bad luck does not bring blessings.
Your Majesty fulfills the supreme nature of Emperor Shun and pursues the deep thoughts of your ancestors, but you are afraid of making negative comments that may harm your Sacred Heart.
Chen Cang did hurt the beauty of the pure virtue of the two emperors, and it was not smooth to the infinite.
Just want your viewing.
The emperor obeyed and stopped doing anything.
From then on, when there were suspicious political matters in the court, they would send fast horses to seek advice.
Liu Cang answered the questions wholeheartedly, and all of them were adopted and applied.
In the third year, the emperor had guards in the Nangong, and Liu Cang visited the Yetingchi Pavilion from the empress. The emperor saw the utensils used by the Queen Mother Yin in the old days, and showed a sad look on his face, so he ordered to keep one piece of clothes for each of the five seasons, and a total of fifty bundles of clothes for daily wear. The rest were given to the princes and their descendants in the capital in varying numbers.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
特赐苍及琅邪王京书曰：中大夫奉使，亲闻动静，嘉之何已！
岁月骛过，山陵浸远，孤心凄怆，如何如何！间飨卫士于南宫，因阅视旧时衣特，闻于师曰： 其物存，其人亡，不言哀而哀自至。
信矣。
惟王孝友之德，亦岂不然！
今送光烈皇后假纟介帛巾各一，及衣一箧，可时奉瞻，以慰《凯风》寒泉之思，又欲令后生子孙得见先后衣服之制。
今鲁国孔氏，尚有仲尼车舆冠履，明德盛者光灵远也。
其光武皇帝器服，中元二年已赋诸国，故不复送。
并遗宛马一匹，血从前上小孔中出。
常闻武帝歌天马，沾赤汗，今亲见其然也。
顷反虏尚屯，将帅在外，忧念遑遑，未有闲宁。
愿王宝精神，加供养。
苦言至戒，望之如渴。
六年冬，苍上疏求朝。
明年正月，帝许之。
特赐装钱千五百万，其余诸王各千万。
帝以苍冒涉寒露，遣谒者赐貂裘，及太官食物珍果，使大鸿胪窦固持节郊迎。
帝乃亲自循行邸第，豫设帷床，其钱帛器物无不充备。
translation: 
A special letter was given to Liu Cang and Liu Jing, the king of Langyi: The middle-level official was envoyed and heard the news personally, and he was praised endlessly.
The years pass quickly, and the mountains and hills gradually become distant, and I feel lonely and sad. However, I recently visited the Nangong Palace, saw old clothes, and heard the teacher say: When things exist, people die. Don’t express sorrow but mourn naturally.
Indeed.
Thinking of Wang Xiaoyou's virtue, isn't it like this?
Now I have sent to Queen Guanglie a piece of fake silk scarf and a bundle of clothes. You can look at them from time to time, to comfort the cold spring of "Kaifeng", and also to enable future generations to see the making of clothes.
Nowadays, the Kong family of Lu State still has Zhongni chariots and hats, which shows that the virtuous person's reputation will last for generations to come.
Emperor Guangwu's uniforms were given to various countries in the second year of Zhongyuan, so they will no longer be given away.
He also sent a horse with blood flowing out from the small hole in its front.
I have often heard that Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sang the praises of Pegasus and made him sweat, but now I saw it with my own eyes.
At present, the rebel soldiers are still stationed in the camp, and the general is away. He is worried and worried, and there is no day for peace and quiet.
May the king cherish your spirit and provide it with your heart.
The bitter words are enough to stop, and the longing is like thirst.
In the winter of the sixth year, Liu Cang went to court to ask for help.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor agreed.
The special gift is twelve million, and the other kings each have ten million.
The emperor thought that the weather was cold and dew, so he sent an audience to give him mink fur, as well as food and fruits for the eunuchs, so that Dahong and Dou stubbornly greeted him in the suburbs.
The emperor personally walked through the residence, prepared curtains and beds, and had all the money, silk and utensils fully prepared.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
下诏曰： 《礼》云伯父归宁乃国，《诗》云叔父建尔元子，敬之至也。
昔萧相国加以不名，优忠贤也。
况兼亲尊者乎！
其沛、济南、东平、中山四王，赞皆勿名。
苍既至，升殿乃拜，天子亲答之。
其后诸王入宫，辄以辇迎，至省乃下。
苍以受恩过礼，情不自宁，上疏辞曰： 臣闻贵有常尊，贱有等威，卑高列序，上下以理。
陛下至德广施，慈爱骨肉，既赐奉朝请，咫尺天仪，而亲屈至尊，降礼下臣，每赐宴见，辄兴席改容，中宫亲拜，事过典故，臣惶怖战栗，诚不自安，每会见，无所措置。
此非所以章示群下。安臣子也。
帝省奏叹息，愈褒贵焉。
旧典，诸王女皆封乡主，乃独封苍五女为县公主。
三月，大鸿胪奏遣诸王归国，帝特留苍，赐以秘书，列仙图、道术秘方。
至八月饮酎毕，有司复奏遣苍，乃许之。
手诏赐苍曰： 骨肉天性，诚不以远近为亲疏，然数见颜色，情重昔时。
translation: 
The edict read: "The Book of Rites" says that my uncle returned to Ningnai, and the "Book of Songs" says that my uncle Jian'er Yuanzi, this is extremely respectful.
In the past, Xiangguo Xiao treated loyal and virtuous people preferentially.
Not to mention respecting those who are close to relatives!
The four kings of Pei, Jinan, Dongping and Zhongshan are not even praised by their names.
After Liu Cang arrived, he went to the palace and bowed, and the emperor personally answered the ceremony.
From now on, when all the kings enter the palace, they will greet them with cars, and they will not get off until they reach the provincial pavilion.
Liu Cang felt that he was uneasy after receiving a favor, so he thanked him and said: "I heard that the nobles have constant respect, and the humble have equal prestige. The humble and the high are ranked in order, and the superiors and inferiors are justified."
Your Majesty is extremely virtuous and shows kindness to your flesh and blood. Not only do you offer gifts to the court, you can see the heavenly rituals at your fingertips, but you also personally bow down to the supreme dignity and pay tribute to your ministers. Every time you have a banquet, you often change your appearance, and you pay homage in person in the palace. There are allusions to this. The minister was very frightened and indeed felt uneasy. Every time he saw me, he was so humble that he didn't know where to put his hands and feet.
This is not a way to set an example for the subordinates and appease the ministers.
The emperor sighed after reading the memorial and became even more complimentary.
According to the old code, all the princes and daughters were granted the title of village head, and only Liu Cang's five daughters were granted the title of county princess.
In March, Dahonglu sent all the kings back to the country. The emperor specially stayed with Liu Cang and gave him a secretary, a map of immortals, and Taoist secrets.
After finishing drinking in August, a minister sent Cang back to his country, and then he agreed.
The emperor wrote an edict to Liu Cang and said: It is true that people of flesh and blood do not feel close to each other due to distance, but seeing colors several times brings back the feelings of the past.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
念王久劳，思得还休，欲署大鸿胪奏，不忍下笔，顾授小黄门，中心恋恋，恻然不能言。
于是车驾祖送，流涕而诀。
复赐乘舆服御，珍宝舆马，钱布以亿万计。
苍还国，疾病，帝驰遣名医，小黄门侍疾，使者冠盖不绝于道。
又置驿马千里，传问起居。
明年正月薨，诏告中傅，封上苍自建武以来章奏及所作书、记、赋、颂、七言、别安、歌诗，并集览焉。
遣大鸿胪持节，五官中郎将副监丧，及将作使者凡六人，令四姓小侯诸国王主悉会诣东平奔丧，赐钱前后一亿，布九万匹。
及葬，策曰： 惟建初八年三月己卯，皇帝曰：咨王丕显，勤劳王室，亲受策命，昭于前世。
出作蕃辅，克慎明德，率礼不越，傅闻在下。
吴天不吊，不报上仁，俾屏余一人，夙夜々，靡有所终。
今诏有司加赐鸾辂乘马，龙旂九旒，虎贲百人，奉送王行。
匪我宪王，其孰离之！
魂而有灵，保兹宠荣。
translation: 
I remember that the king has been working outside for a long time, and wants to go back to the court to rest. He wants to sign Dahonglu's memorial, but he can't bear to write. He wants to be awarded Xiaohuangmen, and he feels so sad in the heart that he can't speak.
So we saw him off in a car and said goodbye with tears.
He was also given chariots and chariots to serve the emperor, precious treasures and horses, and hundreds of millions of money and cloth.
When Liu Cang returned home and fell ill, the emperor sent the imperial doctor on a fast horse, and the small yellow gate called for help, and envoys were constantly coming and going.
He also set up a post horse thousands of miles away to ask about Liu Cang's daily life.
Liu Cang died in the first month of the second year, and he issued an edict to Zhongfu, sealing the memorials and the books, notes, rhymes, poems, seven-character poems, idioms, and poems written by Liu Cang since the founding of the Wu Dynasty, and collecting them for reading.
Da Honglu was sent to observe the festival, Wu Guan Zhonglang was appointed as the deputy supervisor of the funeral, and a total of six people were appointed as envoys. He ordered all the princes and kings of the four surnames to gather in Dongping for the funeral, and gave him a total of 100 million yuan and 90,000 pieces of cloth.
When he was buried, Ce wrote: In the third month of the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor said: "Prince Pixian is a diligent member of the royal family. He personally received Ce's order, which was revealed in the previous life."
When he came to serve as the assistant to Fan, he was cautious and virtuous, and he was polite and courteous. Fu Wen was the subordinate.
God doesn't have eyes and doesn't repay kindness, leaving me alone morning and night, without an end.
Today, the imperial edict has been issued by the Ministry of Justice to grant the king a chariot, a chariot, a horse, nine dragons and hundreds of tigers to accompany him on his journey.
Who can receive this favor but my King Xian!
If the soul has a spirit, it will keep this favor and honor.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
熹平四年，灵帝复立河间贞王建子新昌侯佗为任城王，奉孝王后。
立四十六年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
阜陵质王延，建武十五年封淮阳公，十七年进爵为王，二十八年就国。
三十年，以汝南之长平、西华、新阳、扶乐四县益淮阳国。
延性骄奢而遇下严烈。
永平中，有上书告延与姬兄谢弇及姊馆陶主婿驸马都尉韩光招奸猾，作图谶，祠祭祝诅。
事下案验，光、弇被杀，辞所连及，死徙者甚众。
有司奏请诛延，显宗以延罪薄于楚王英，故特加恩，徙为阜陵王，食二县。
延既徙封，数怀怨望。
建初中，复有告延与子男鲂造逆谋者，有司奏请槛车征诣廷尉诏狱。
肃宗下诏曰： 王前犯大逆，罪恶尤深，有同周之管、蔡，汉之淮南。
translation: 
Alas! Forty-five years after Liu Cang was established, his son Huai Wang Liu Zhongsi. In the second year, the emperor divided the Dongping Kingdom and granted Liu Shang, Liu Zhong's younger brother, the title of King of Rencheng, and the remaining five were named marquises.
◆The biography of Liu Shang, the filial king of Rencheng, Liu Shang, the filial king of Rencheng, was granted the title in the first year of Yuanhe, and he ate the three counties of Rencheng, Kangfu and Fan. He died in the eighteenth year of his reign and was succeeded by Liu An, the king of Zizhen.
◆Liu Yanzhuan, the pledge king of Fuling, Liu Yan, the pledge king of Fuling, was granted the title of Duke of Huaiyang in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, became a king in the seventeenth year, and went to the fiefdom in the twenty-eighth year.
In the 30th year, the imperial court placed the four counties of Changping, Xihua, Xinyang and Fule in Runan under the Huaiyang Kingdom.
Liu Yan was arrogant and extravagant by nature and treated his subordinates harshly.
During the Yongping period, someone wrote to Liu Yan, his brother Xie, and his sister, Princess Guantao's son-in-law Han Guang, to recruit cunning people to make prophecies and offer sacrifices in temples.
The case was handed over for examination, and Han Guang and Xie were killed. Their confessions were implicated, and there were many capital crimes and emigrations.
A superior petitioned for Liu Yan's death. Emperor Xianzong believed that Liu Yan's crime was less serious than that of Liu Ying, the king of Chu, so he specially extended his favor and granted him the title of King of Fuling instead, giving him the salary of two counties.
Liu Yan had already moved to a feudal state, and he held grudges several times.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, someone accused Liu Yan and his son Liu Li of treason. Someone asked Liu Yan to be summoned in a carriage to Tingwei to be imprisoned.
Suzong issued an edict: The king committed treason and injustice last time, and the circumstances were as serious as those of Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai of the Zhou Dynasty, and Huainan of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
经有正义，律有明刑。
先帝不忍亲亲之恩，枉屈大法，为王受愆，群下莫不惑焉。
今王曾莫悔悟，悖心不移，逆谋内溃，自子鲂发，诚非本朝之所乐闻。
朕恻然伤心，不忍致王于理，今贬爵为阜陵侯，食一县。
获斯辜者，侯自取焉。於戏诫哉！
赦鲂等罪勿验，使谒者一人监护延国，不得与吏人通。
章和元年，行幸九江，赐延书与车驾会寿春。
帝见延及妻子，愍然伤之，乃下诏曰： 昔周之爵封千有八百，而姬姓居半者，所以桢干王室也。
朕南巡，望淮、海，意在阜陵，遂与侯相见，侯志意衰落，形体非故，瞻省怀感，以喜以悲。
今复侯为阜陵王，增封四县，并前为五县。
广陵思王荆，建武十五年封山阳公，十七年进爵为王。
荆性刻急隐害，有才能而喜文法。
光武崩，大行在前殿，荆哭不哀，而作飞书，封以方底，令苍头诈称东海王彊舅大鸿胪郭况书与彊曰：君王无罪，猥被斥废，而兄弟至有束缚入牢狱者。
太后失职，别守北宫，及至年老，远斥居边，海内深痛，观者鼻酸。
及太后尸柩在堂，洛阳吏以次捕斩宾客，至有一家三尸伏堂者，痛甚矣！
今天下有丧，已弩张设甚备。间梁松敕虎贲史曰： 吏以便宜见非，勿有所拘，封侯难再得也。
郎宫窃悲之，为王寒心累息。
translation: 
The scriptures have justice, and the laws have clear punishments.
The late emperor couldn't bear the kindness of a kiss, and he violated the law and suffered it for the king. Everyone in the crowd was puzzled.
Now the king has no intention of repentance, his rebellious heart has not changed, and the rebellion has been broken from within, starting with his son Li, which is indeed not what this dynasty likes to hear.
I feel sorry for you and cannot bear to punish the king. Now I am demoting you to the title of Marquis of Fuling and taking the salary of a county.
This kind of sin was brought upon himself, so be warned!
The crimes of Liu Yi and others were pardoned and no investigation was carried out. An emissary was sent to guard Liu Yan's country and they were not allowed to interact with the officials.
In the first year of Zhanghe, the emperor visited Jiujiang and gave Liu Yan a letter and a chariot to meet him in Shouchun.
The emperor looked at Liu Yan and his wife and children, and felt very sad, so he issued an edict: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty had a thousand and eight hundred nobility titles, and half of them were surnamed Ji, in order to consolidate the royal family.
On my southern tour this time, I headed towards the Huaihe and Haihai areas, intending to stop at Fuling, so I met with the marquis. Seeing Hou Zhiyi decline and his body not as good as before, I felt very sad, happy and sad at the same time.
Now the restored prince is the king of Fuling, and four more counties have been enfeoffed, adding to the previous five counties.
◆In the biography of Liu Jing, the Si King of Guangling, Liu Jing was granted the title of Duke of Shanyang in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Jing has an impatient, insidious and harmful personality. He is talented and likes grammar.
After the death of Emperor Guangwu, the coffin was in the front hall. Liu Jing cried but did not mourn. Instead, he wrote a flying letter, sealed with a square bottom, and sent Cangtou to pretend to be the king of the East China Sea. Liu Qiang's uncle Dahonglu Guo Kuang wrote to Liu Qiang: The king is innocent and has been denounced many times, while his brothers have been bound to prison.
The Queen Mother neglected her duties and did not guard the North Palace. When she was old, she was repelled and lived far away. She was deeply regretted at home and the noses of those who rejoiced were sore.
Later, the Empress Dowager's body was found in the hall, and Luoyang officials arrested and executed the guests one after another. There was even a family with three corpses lying in the hall. It was extremely sad!
Now there is mourning in the world, and the bows and crossbows are fully equipped. A few days ago, Liang Song ordered Hu Benshi to say: If an official is wronged due to cheap things, he should do it immediately, and do not stick to the regular system, because it is difficult to get a title again!
Lang Guan was grieving privately and was heartbroken for Wang Han.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今天下争欲思刻贼王以求功，宁有量邪！
若归并二国之众，可聚百万，君王为之主，鼓行无前，功易于太山破鸡子，轻于四马载鸿毛，此汤、武兵也。
今年轩辕星有白气，星家及喜事者，皆云白气者丧，轩辕女主之位。
又太白前出西方，至午兵当起。
又太子星色黑，至辰日辄变赤。
夫黑为病，赤为兵，王努力卒事。
高祖起亭长，陛下兴白水，何况于王陛下长子，故副主哉！
上以求天下事必举，下以雪除沉没之耻，报死母之仇。
精诚所加，金石为开。
当为秋霜，无为槛羊。虽欲为槛羊，又可得乎！
窃见诸相工言王贵，天子法也。
人主崩亡，闾阎之伍尚为盗贼，欲有所望，何况王邪！
夫受命之君，天之所立，不可谋也。
今新帝人之所置，强者为右。
愿君王为高祖、陛下所志，无为扶苏、将闾叫呼天地。
彊得书惶怖，即执其使，封书上之。
translation: 
Today the servants are trying to engrave the King of Thieves for merit, but is there a limit?
If the people of the two countries are united, millions of people can be gathered, and the king will be the commander-in-chief, and the courage will be unparalleled. The achievements will be easier than Mount Taishan to crush an egg, and it will be lighter than four horses carrying a feather. This is the army of Tang and Wu!
Xuanyuan star has white energy this year. Astrologers and good people all say that those with white energy will lose their place as the heroine of Xuanyuan.
Then he went out to the west in front of the Taibai Star, and at noon the troops started to rise.
Also, the Prince's star is black in color and often turns red on the solstice.
Black is a disease, red is a soldier, and the king works hard to achieve success.
The great ancestor was the pavilion chief, and your majesty was born in Baishui. What's more, the king is your majesty's eldest son, so where is his deputy?
Above, I hope that everything in the world will be done, and below, I use snow to remove the shame of sinking and avenge my dead mother.
With sincerity, gold and stone are opened.
You should be prepared for the chilling atmosphere of the autumn frost, and don't be a sheep and be controlled by others. At that time, even if you want to be a sheep, will you be able to get it?
I saw all the physiognomists talking about the noble appearance of the king and the method of the emperor.
The leader of the people is dead, and the people of Lu Yan are still thieves. If they want to have hope, let alone the king!
The king who has been appointed is established by heaven and cannot be obtained by man.
Now the new emperor has arranged that the strong one will be on the right.
May the king do what the Great Patriarch and Your Majesty wishes, and not be like Fusu and call the general Lu Hutian!
Liu Qiang was very frightened after receiving the letter. He grabbed the envoy, sealed the letter and presented it to him.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
显宗以荆母弟，秘其事，遣荆出止河南宫。
时西羌反，荆不得志，冀天下因羌惊动有变，私迎能为星者与谋议。
帝闻之，乃徙封荆广陵王，遣之国。
其后荆复呼相工谓曰： 我貌类先帝。
先帝三十得天下，我今亦三十，可起兵未？
相者诣吏告之，荆惶恐，自系狱。
帝复加恩，不考极其事，下诏不得臣属吏人，惟食租如故，使相、中尉谨宿卫之。
荆犹不改。
临淮怀公衡，建武十五年立，未及进爵为王而薨，无子，国除。
中山简王焉，建武十五年封左翊公，十七年进爵为王。焉以郭太后少子故，独留京师。
三十年，徒封中山王。
永平二年冬，诸王来会辟雍，事毕归蕃，诏焉与俱就国，从以虚贲官骑。
焉上疏辞让，显宗报曰： 凡诸侯出境，必备左右，故夹谷之会，司马以从。
translation: 
Xianzong believed that Liu Jing was his brother from the same mother, so he concealed his story and sent Liu Jing to live in Henan Palace.
At this time, the Xiqiang rebelled, and Liu Jing was frustrated. He hoped that the world would be disturbed by the Qiang disaster, so he secretly consulted with the fortune teller.
After the emperor heard about it, he changed the title of Liu Jing to King Guangling and sent him back to his fiefdom.
Later Liu Jing called Xiang Gong again and said: I look like the late emperor.
The late emperor conquered the world at the age of thirty, and I am thirty now. Can I raise an army?
Xiang Gong reported it to the officials. Liu Jing was afraid and tied himself up and was thrown into prison.
The emperor again favored him and did not pursue the matter. He issued an edict not to allow Liu Jingchen to serve as an official, but his food and rent were still the same as before. He sent a prime minister and a lieutenant to protect him.
Liu Jing still did not change.
Later, witches were used to offer sacrifices and curses, and a supervisor reported him and requested that he be killed. Liu Jing committed suicide. Liu Jingli died in the 29th year. The emperor took pity on him and gave him the posthumous title King Si. ◆The biography of Liu Heng, Huai Gong of Linhuai, Liu Heng was established in the fifteenth year of Jianwu. He died before becoming king and became king. He had no children and was removed from the country.
◆Zhongshan Jianwang Liu Yanzhuan, Liu Yan, was granted the title Duke Feng Yigong of Zuo in the 15th year of Jianwu, and became king in the 17th year. Yan was the youngest son of Empress Dowager Guo and stayed alone in the capital.
In the 30th year, he was granted the title of King of Zhongshan.
In the winter of the second year of Yongping, the kings came to meet Piyong and returned to Tibet after their affairs. They ordered Liu Yan to return to the fiefdom with them, and to follow them with tiger and beni official cavalry.
Liu Yan went to Shu and resigned, and Xianzong reported back: "Every prince must have his right and left when leaving the country, so at the meeting in Jiagu, Sima Yi followed."


Chunk 17: 
original: 
今五国各官骑百人，称前行，皆北军胡骑，便兵善射，弓不空发，中必决眦。
夫有文事必有武备，所以重蕃职也。王其勿辞。
帝以焉郭太后偏爱，特加恩宠，独得往来京师。
十五年，焉姬韩序有过，焉缢杀之，国相举奏，坐削安险县。
暢立三十四年薨，子节王稚嗣，无子，国除。琅邪孝王京，建武十五年封琅邪公，十七年进爵为王。
京性恭孝，好经学，显宗尤爱幸，赏赐恩宠殊异，莫与为比。
永平二年，以太山之盖、南武阳、华，东莱之昌阳、卢乡、东牟六县益琅邪。
五年，乃就国。
光烈皇后崩，帝悉以太后遗金宝财物赐京。
京都莒，好修宫室，穷极伎巧，殿馆壁带皆饰以金银。
数上诗赋颂德，帝嘉美，下之史官。
京国中有城阳景王祠，吏人奉祠。
translation: 
Now there are hundreds of officers and cavalry from each of the five countries, marching in order. They are all barbarian cavalry from the Northern Army. Their soldiers are good at shooting. Their bows are not empty, and they will definitely hit the canthus.
Those who have civil affairs must be equipped with military equipment. This is the meaning of re-employment. There is no need for the king to refuse!
The emperor believed that Liu Yan was favored by the Empress Dowager Guo, so she favored him and gained exclusive access to the capital.
In the fifteenth year, Liu Yan's concubine Han Xu made a mistake, and Liu Yan hanged her to death. The prime minister raised a memorial and was removed from Anxian County.
During the Yuanhe period, Suzong returned Anxian County to Zhongshan. Liu Yanli lived in the fifty-second year and died in the second year of Yongyuan. Liu Xiansi, King of Ziyi. ◆The biography of King Lang Ya Xiao Wang Liu Jing, Liu Jing, was granted the title of Duke of Langji in the fifteenth year of Jianwu, and became the king in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Liu Jing was respectful and filial by nature, and loved the study of Confucian classics. Emperor Xianzong was particularly fond of him and rewarded him with special favors. No one could compare with him.
In the second year of Yongping, six counties including Gai, Nanwuyang and Hua in Taishan and Changyang, Luxiang and Dongmou in Donglai were added to Langyi.
It took five years to go to the fiefdom.
Queen Guanglie died, and the emperor gave all the gold and treasure left by the Queen Mother to Liu Jing.
Liu Jing established his capital in Ju, and he was fond of building palaces and palaces. He used extremely skillful means to decorate the walls and walls of the palaces with gold and silver.
He wrote poems and poems many times to praise his merits and virtues. The emperor praised him and wrote down to the historians.
In the Liu Jing Kingdom, there is the Chengyangjing Wang Temple, where officials worship.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
神数下言宫中多不便利，京上书愿徙宫开阳，以华、盖、南武阳、厚丘、赣榆五县易东海之开阳、临沂，肃宗许之。
立三十一年薨，葬东海即丘广平亭，有诏割亭属开阳。
子夷王宇嗣。
translation: 
The god repeatedly warned that the palace was inconvenient, so Liu Jing wrote that he would move the palace to Kaiyang and exchange the five counties of Hua, Gai, Nanshiyang, Houqiu and Ganyu for Kaiyang and Linyi in the East China Sea. Suzong agreed.
Liu Yanli died in the thirty-first year of his life and was buried in Qiu Guangping Pavilion in the East China Sea. There was an edict to cut the pavilion and open Yang.
Liu Yusi, King of Ziyi.


