Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴王濞者，高帝兄刘仲之子也。
高帝已定天下七年，立刘仲为代王。
而匈奴攻代，刘仲不能坚守，弃国亡，间行走雒阳，自归天子。
天子为骨肉故，不忍致法，废以为郃阳侯。
高帝十一年秋，淮南王英布反，东并荆地，劫其国兵，西度淮，击楚，高帝自将往诛之。
刘仲子沛侯濞年二十，有气力，以骑将从破布军蕲西，会甀，布走。
荆王刘贾为布所杀，无後。
上患吴、会稽轻悍，无壮王以填之，诸子少，乃立濞於沛为吴王，王三郡五十三城。
已拜受印，高帝召濞相之，谓曰： 若状有反相。
心独悔，业已拜，因拊其背，告曰： 汉後五十年东南有乱者，岂若邪？
translation: 
King Wu Liu Bi was the son of Liu Zhong, the brother of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Seven years after Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, he named Liu Zhong the acting king.
Later, when the Xiongnu attacked Dai, Liu Zhong could not hold on, so he abandoned the country and fled. He took a small road to Luoyang and surrendered to the emperor.
Because the emperor was a brother of flesh and blood, he could not bear to be punished according to law, so he only deposed the king and demoted him to be the Marquis of Heyang.
In the autumn of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Yingbu of Zhunnan rebelled, annexed the Jing territory to the east, hijacked the troops of the local princes, crossed the Huai River to the west, and attacked Chu State. Emperor Gaozu personally led the army to punish him.
Liu Zhong's son, Peihou Liu Bi, was twenty years old and strong. As a cavalry commander, he followed Gaozu and defeated Yingbu's army at Huizhen in the west of Qixian County. Yingbu fled.
King Liu Jia of Jing was killed by Yingbu and had no heirs.
The emperor was worried that the people in Wu and Kuaiji were frivolous and aggressive, and there was no brave king to restrain them. His sons were young, so he made Liu Bi the king of Wu in Pei, with jurisdiction over three counties and fifty-three counties.
After he had received his official seal, Emperor Gaozu asked Liu Bi to come and see him. After seeing him, he said: "You have a rebellious appearance."
At the same time, he felt regret in his heart, but he had already appointed him, so he patted him on the back and warned him: "There will be a rebellion in the southeast in the fifty years after the founding of the Han Dynasty. Is it you?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
然天下同姓为一家也，慎无反！
濞顿首曰： 不敢。
会孝惠、高后时，天下初定，郡国诸侯各务自拊循其民。
吴有豫章郡铜山，濞则招致天下亡命者铸钱，煮海水为盐，以故无赋，国用富饶。
孝文时，吴太子入见，得侍皇太子饮博。
吴太子师傅皆楚人，轻悍，又素骄，博，争道，不恭，皇太子引博局提吴太子，杀之。於是遣其丧归葬。
至吴，吴王愠曰： 天下同宗，死长安即葬长安，何必来葬为！
复遣丧之长安葬。
吴王由此稍失籓臣之礼，称病不朝。
京师知其以子故称病不朝，验问实不病，诸吴使来，辄系责治之。
吴王恐，为谋滋甚。
及後使人为秋请，上复责问吴使者，使者对曰： 王实不病，汉系治使者数辈，以故遂称病。
且夫 察见渊中鱼，不祥 。
今王始诈病，及觉，见责急，愈益闭，恐上诛之，计乃无聊。
translation: 
However, everyone with the same surname is one family, so you must not rebel!
Liu Bi kowtowed and said, "I don't dare."
By the time of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the world had just stabilized, and the princes of some counties were working hard to appease their own people.
Wu State owned the copper mines in Yuzhang County, so Liu Bi recruited desperadoes from all over the world to mint money privately and boil seawater to make salt. Because of this, the state did not levy taxes and the state expenses were very abundant.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Crown Prince of Wu came to Beijing for an audience and was able to accompany the Crown Prince to drink and play chess.
Prince Wu's teachers were both from Chu. They were frivolous, strong, and arrogant. When they were playing chess with the crown prince, they had an argument over the chess game and their attitude was disrespectful. The crown prince picked up the chessboard and threw the chessboard at Prince Wu, killing him. Afterwards, his body was sent back to Wu for burial.
When they arrived at the state of Wu, King Wu said angrily: If a family with the same surname in the world died in Chang'an, they should be buried in Chang'an. Why should they be sent to the state of Wu for burial?
The body was then sent to Chang'an for burial.
From then on, the King of Wu gradually disobeyed the etiquette that his vassals should abide by, claiming to be ill and refusing to enter the court.
The people in the capital knew that he claimed to be ill and refused to enter the court because his son had died. After questioning, he was indeed not ill. After that, when the envoys of the King of Wu came, they detained him, questioned him, and punished him.
The King of Wu was frightened and even more actively planned rebellion.
Later, the King of Wu sent someone to Beijing for the autumn invitation, and the emperor questioned the envoy again. The envoy told the emperor: The King of Wu is indeed not sick. The imperial court detained and punished several envoys, so he claimed that he was ill and could not come back.
And there is such a thing: it is unlucky to see fish in a deep pool.
Now the King of Wu began to pretend to be sick. When the court noticed and was severely questioned, he became more and more eager to conceal his behavior for fear that the emperor would kill him. The plan of claiming to be sick was out of helplessness.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
唯上弃之而与更始。
於是天子乃赦吴使者归之，而赐吴王几杖，老，不朝。
吴得释其罪，谋亦益解。
然其居国以铜盐故，百姓无赋。
卒践更，辄与平贾。
岁时存问茂材，赏赐闾里。
佗郡国吏欲来捕亡人者，讼共禁弗予。
如此者四十馀年，以故能使其众。
晁错为太子家令，得幸太子，数从容言吴过可削。
数上书说孝文帝，文帝宽，不忍罚，以此吴日益横。
及孝景帝即位，错为御史大夫，说上曰： 昔高帝初定天下，昆弟少，诸子弱，大封同姓，故王孽子悼惠王王齐七十馀城，庶弟元王王楚四十馀城，兄子濞王吴五十馀城：封三庶孽，分天下半。
今吴王前有太子之郄，诈称病不朝，於古法当诛，文帝弗忍，因赐几杖。
德至厚，当改过自新。
乃益骄溢，即山铸钱，煮海水为盐，诱天下亡人，谋作乱。
今削之亦反，不削之亦反。
translation: 
It is hoped that the emperor will put aside his past grudges and give King Wu a chance to start over.
So the emperor pardoned Wu's envoys and allowed them to go back. He also gave King Wu a few swords and a staff, thinking that he was old and could not go to the capital to see him.
The king of Wu was able to absolve him of his sins, and the rebellion was relaxed.
However, the feudal state where he was located had no income from copper salt, so the people did not pay taxes.
Soldiers are paid in lieu of service and the price is fair.
At a certain time every year, they visit talented people and give rewards to common people.
The king of Wu took in fugitives who were wanted by law officials from other counties and did not hand them over.
After doing this for more than forty years, the king of Wu was able to control and utilize his people.
Chao Cuo served as the prince's family order and gained the prince's favor. He encouraged the prince many times to say that the king of Wu was guilty and his fiefdom should be reduced.
He also wrote many times to persuade Emperor Wen. Emperor Wen was generous and could not bear to punish him, so King Wu became even more arrogant.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo became the imperial censor, and advised the emperor: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu had just settled the world, he had few brothers and young sons, so he widely enfeoffed people with the same surname. Therefore, his concubine, King Tuohui, was granted the title of King of Qi and ruled over more than 70 counties.
Now, because of the suspicion that his son had been beaten to death in the past, King Wu pretended to be ill and refused to go to the capital to see him. According to ancient laws, he deserved to be killed. Emperor Wen couldn't bear it, so he rewarded him with a seat and a cane.
He was very kind to him and should have reformed.
But he became even more arrogant and excessive, casting coins from copper mines, boiling sea water to make salt, seducing desperadoes from all over the world, and plotting rebellion.
Cutting him off now is also a rebellion, and not cutting him down is also a rebellion.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
削之，其反亟，祸小；不削，反迟，祸大。
三年冬，楚王朝，晁错因言楚王戊往年为薄太后服，私奸服舍，请诛之。
诏赦，罚削东海郡。
因削吴之豫章郡、会稽郡。
及前二年赵王有罪，削其河间郡。
胶西王卬以卖爵有奸，削其六县。
汉廷臣方议削吴。
吴王濞恐削地无已，因以此发谋，欲举事。
念诸侯无足与计谋者，闻胶西王勇，好气，喜兵，诸齐皆惮畏，於是乃使中大夫应高誂胶西王。
无文书，口报曰： 吴王不肖，有宿夕之忧，不敢自外，使喻其驩心。
王曰： 何以教之？
translation: 
If you reduce it, it will be done quickly and the disaster will be small; if you don't reduce it, it will be done late and the disaster will be great.
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, the King of Chu came to court. Chao Cuo took this opportunity to say that when King Liu Wu of Chu was in mourning for Empress Dowager Bo last year, he had secretly committed adultery in the house where he lived in mourning, and requested that he be killed.
Emperor Jing issued an edict to pardon his death penalty, but only reduced Donghai County as punishment.
Subsequently, Wu's Yuzhang County and Kuaiji County were reduced.
Two years ago, King Zhao reduced his Hejian County because of his guilt.
Liu Xuan, the king of Jiaoxi, reduced his six counties due to fraud in the sale of titles.
The ministers of the Han Dynasty were discussing reducing King Wu's land.
Wu King Liu Bi was worried that there would be no end to the land expropriation, so he wanted to take the opportunity to reveal his plot and raise an army to attack.
He also thought that there was no one among the princes who could make plans together, and knew that the King of Jiaoxi was brave and eager to fight for victory. Several princes and kings in the same area were afraid of him, so he sent Ying Gao, the middle official, to seduce the King of Jiaoxi.
There is no letter, but a verbal notification: The King of Wu is not talented and has worries that will come soon. He does not dare to treat himself as an outsider, so that you can understand his good intentions.
King Jiaoxi said: Any advice?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
高曰： 今者主上兴於奸，饰於邪臣，好小善，听谗贼，擅变更律令，侵夺诸侯之地，徵求滋多，诛罚良善，日以益甚。
里语有之， 舐及米 。
吴与胶西，知名诸侯也，一时见察，恐不得安肆矣。
吴王身有内病，不能朝请二十馀年，尝患见疑，无以自白，今胁肩累足，犹惧不见释。
窃闻大王以爵事有適，所闻诸侯削地，罪不至此，此恐不得削地而已。
王曰： 然，有之。
子将柰何？
高曰： 同恶相助，同好相留，同情相成，同欲相趋，同利相死。
今吴王自以为与大王同忧，原因时循理，弃躯以除患害於天下，亿亦可乎？
王瞿然骇曰： 寡人何敢如是？
今主上虽急，固有死耳，安得不戴？
translation: 
Ying Gao said: Now the emperor appoints ministers, is deceived by evil ministers, likes the immediate interests, listens to slander, changes laws without authorization, seizes the fiefdoms of princes, demands more and more fiefdoms, and kills and punishes good people. These situations are becoming more and more serious.
As the saying goes: After eating rice bran, you will eat rice.
The King of Wu and the King of Jiaoxi are famous princes. Once they are noticed, they may not be able to live in peace and freedom.
The King of Wu suffered from internal illness and had been unable to see the emperor for more than twenty years. He was once worried about being suspected and had no way to explain it. Now he hunched his shoulders and walked in small steps, still afraid of not being understood.
I heard that the king was punished for selling his title. I heard that the feudal lords had their fiefdoms reduced. The crime should not be punished in this way. I am afraid that this kind of punishment can only end with the loss of land.
King Jiaoxi said: Yes, there is such a thing.
What do you think we should do?
Ying Gao said: Those who hate each other help each other, those who have the same hobbies stay with each other, those with the same emotions help each other, those who have the same desires pursue the same, and those with the same interests die together.
Now the King of Wu thinks that he has the same worries as the King. He is willing to take the opportunity to comply with the situation and sacrifice his body to eliminate harm to the world. Can you think about it?
King Jiaoxi said in surprise: How dare I do this?
Although the emperor is now threatening and urgent, I am already guilty of capital punishment. How can I not support him?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
高曰： 御史大夫晁错，荧惑天子，侵夺诸侯，蔽忠塞贤，朝廷疾怨，诸侯皆有倍畔之意，人事极矣。
彗星出，蝗蟲数起，此万世一时，而愁劳圣人之所以起也。
故吴王欲内以晁错为讨，外随大王後车，彷徉天下，所乡者降，所指者下，天下莫敢不服。
大王诚幸而许之一言，则吴王率楚王略函谷关，守荥阳敖仓之粟，距汉兵。
治次舍，须大王。
大王有幸而临之，则天下可并，两主分割，不亦可乎？
王曰： 善。
高归报吴王，吴王犹恐其不与，乃身自为使，使於胶西，面结之。
胶西群臣或闻王谋，谏曰： 承一帝，至乐也。
今大王与吴西乡，弟令事成，两主分争，患乃始结。
诸侯之地不足为汉郡什二，而为畔逆以忧太后，非长策也。
王弗听。
translation: 
Ying Gao said: Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, deceived the emperor, invaded the princes, and blocked the loyal and virtuous people. All the ministers in the court felt hatred and resentment, and the princes all had the intention of betrayal. He has done his best to serve the people.
Now comets appear and locust plagues continue to occur. This is the only opportunity that comes once in a lifetime, and the time of sorrow and labor is the era when saints are born.
Therefore, the king of Wu wanted to use the crusade against Chao Cuo as an excuse at home, and follow the king's chariot outside, galloping around the world, making the places he faced surrender, and conquering the places pointed by his fingers. No one in the world dared to disobey.
If your Majesty can promise me a word, then the King of Wu will lead the King of Chu to capture Hangu Pass, guard the grain of Aocang in Xingyang, and resist the Han soldiers.
Build a house for the army to be stationed and wait for the arrival of the king.
If the king really comes, then the world can be annexed. Isn't it also possible for two monarchs to divide and rule the world?
King Jiaoxi said: OK.
Ying Gao went back to report to the King of Wu. The King of Wu was still worried that the King of Jiaoxi would not participate in the rebellion, so he personally acted as an envoy to Jiaoxi and made an alliance with the King of Jiaoxi in person.
Some of the officials in Jiaoxi learned about King Jiaoxi's rebellion plan and advised him: "Serving an emperor is the happiest thing."
Now the king and the king of Wu are marching westward. If things succeed, the two masters will definitely have differences and disputes, and disaster will start from here.
The land of the princes is less than two-tenths of the imperial counties, and betraying the imperial court will also worry the Queen Mother. This is not a long-term solution.
King Jiaoxi refused to listen.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遂发使约齐、菑川、胶东、济南、济北，皆许诺，而曰 城阳景王有义，攻诸吕，勿与，事定分之耳 。
诸侯既新削罚，振恐，多怨晁错。
及削吴会稽、豫章郡书至，则吴王先起兵，胶西正月丙午诛汉吏二千石以下，胶东、菑川、济南、楚、赵亦然，遂发兵西。
齐王後悔，饮药自杀，畔约。
济北王城坏未完，其郎中令劫守其王，不得发兵。
胶西为渠率，胶东、菑川、济南共攻围临菑。
赵王遂亦反，阴使匈奴与连兵。
七国之发也，吴王悉其士卒，下令国中曰： 寡人年六十二，身自将。
少子年十四，亦为士卒先。
诸年上与寡人比，下与少子等者，皆发。
发二十馀万人。
南使闽越、东越，东越亦发兵从。
孝景帝三年正月甲子，初起兵於广陵。
西涉淮，因并楚兵。
发使遗诸侯书曰： 吴王刘濞敬问胶西王、胶东王、菑川王、济南王、赵王、楚王、淮南王、衡山王、庐江王、故长沙王子：幸教寡人！
以汉有贼臣，无功天下，侵夺诸侯地，使吏劾系讯治，以僇辱之为故，不以诸侯人君礼遇刘氏骨肉，绝先帝功臣，进任奸宄，诖乱天下，欲危社稷。
translation: 
So he sent envoys to join forces with the King of Qi, the King of Sichuan, the King of Jiaodong, the King of Jinan, and the King of Jibei. They all agreed and said: For the sake of justice, King Chengyang Jing will attack those surnamed Lu. Don't let him participate in the army. After the incident is completed, just give him some land.
The princes were shocked and frightened by the recent punishment of reducing their land, and most of them resented Chao Cuo.
When the documents to reduce the Wu Guoji and Yuzhang counties were sent to the state of Wu, the king of Wu first launched an army to rebel. On Bingwu of the first month, the king of Jiaoxi killed the officials sent by the court with less than 2,000 shi, as did the kings of Jiaodong, Sichuan, Jinan, Chu, and Zhao, so they marched westward.
King Qi later regretted it and committed suicide by taking poison, violating the covenant.
The King of Jibei's city wall was damaged and had not been repaired, so his lieutenant ordered him to be kidnapped and guarded so that he could not send troops.
The King of Jiaoxi was the leader, and together with the King of Jiaodong, the King of Sichuan and the King of Jinan, they led troops to besiege Linyi.
King Liu Sui of Zhao also rebelled and secretly sent envoys to the Xiongnu to discuss joint operations.
When the Seven Kingdoms launched a rebellion, the King of Wu conscripted all his soldiers and ordered the whole country: I am sixty-two years old and personally command the army.
The youngest son is fourteen years old and also leads the way.
Therefore, people who are the same age as me, and the same age as my youngest son at the lowest level, all have to go to war.
More than 200,000 people were conscripted.
He sent envoys to Minyue and Dongyue to the south, and Dongyue also sent troops to follow the king of Wu.
In the first month of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, King Wu first set out from Guangling.
He crossed the Huaihe River to the west and joined the Chu army.
The letter sent by an envoy to the princes said: King Wu Liu Bi respectfully greets the king of Jiaoxi, King of Jiaodong, King of Suichuan, King of Jinan, King of Zhao, King of Chu, King of Huainan, King of Hengshan, King of Lujiang, and the son of the late King of Changsha: I hope to get your advice!
Because there are treacherous ministers in the court who have done nothing for the world, but they invade the land of the princes, send officials to impeach, arrest, interrogate and punish the princes, and only insult the princes. They do not treat the Liu family's relatives with the etiquette of princes and kings. They ignore the meritorious officials of the late emperor, promote and appoint bad people, confuse the world, and want to harm the country.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
陛下多病志失，不能省察。
欲举兵诛之，谨闻教。
敝国虽狭，地方三千里；人虽少，精兵可具五十万。
寡人素事南越三十馀年，其王君皆不辞分其卒以随寡人，又可得三十馀万。
寡人虽不肖，原以身从诸王。
越直长沙者，因王子定长沙以北，西走蜀、汉中。
告越、楚王、淮南三王，与寡人西面；齐诸王与赵王定河间、河内，或入临晋关，或与寡人会雒阳；燕王、赵王固与胡王有约，燕王北定代、云中，抟胡众入萧关，走长安，匡正天子，以安高庙。
原王勉之。
楚元王子、淮南三王或不沐洗十馀年，怨入骨髓，欲一有所出之久矣，寡人未得诸王之意，未敢听。
今诸王苟能存亡继绝，振弱伐暴，以安刘氏，社稷之所原也。
敝国虽贫，寡人节衣食之用，积金钱，脩兵革，聚穀食，夜以继日，三十馀年矣。凡为此，原诸王勉用之。
translation: 
Your Majesty is frail, sick and mentally disturbed, and cannot clearly understand the political situation.
I want to raise an army to punish them, and I respectfully follow your advice.
Although our country is small, the land is only three thousand miles in radius; although the population is small, we can prepare 500,000 elite soldiers.
I have been serving South Vietnam for more than thirty years, and their monarchs have not refused to recruit and assign soldiers to follow me into the army, and I can get more than three hundred thousand people.
Although I am not talented, I am willing to follow all the princes personally.
Yue is bordering Changsha. They can follow the son of the King of Changsha to pacify the north of Changsha, and then attack Shu and Hanzhong westward.
I sent people to tell the King of Dongyue, the King of Chu, and the King of Huainan to attack westward with me. After the kings of Qi and King Zhao pacified Hejian and Hanoi, some of them entered Linjin Pass and some joined me in Luoyang. King Yan and King Zhao originally had an alliance with the Xiongnu.
I hope everyone will work hard.
The sons of King Yuan of Chu, King Huainan, King Hengshan, and King Lujiang of Huainan have been focusing on their own affairs for more than ten years. Their resentment has been deeply rooted in their bones and they have wanted to take action for a long time. However, I do not know the kings' intentions and dare not obey orders.
Now if the princes can preserve and perpetuate the country that is about to be extinct, support the weak and hoe the strong, and stabilize the Liu family, this is what the Ancestral Temple Sheji hopes.
Although our country is poor, I have saved the cost of food and clothing, saved money, repaired weapons and armor, and accumulated food, working day and night for more than thirty years, all for today. I hope all the kings will work hard to take advantage of these conditions.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
能斩捕大将者，赐金五千斤，封万户；列将，三千斤，封五千户；裨将，二千斤，封二千户；二千石，千斤，封千户；千石，五百斤，封五百户：皆为列侯。
其以军若城邑降者，卒万人，邑万户，如得大将；人户五千，如得列将；人户三千，如得裨将；人户千，如得二千石；其小吏皆以差次受爵金。
佗封赐皆倍军法。
其有故爵邑者，更益勿因。
原诸王明以令士大夫，弗敢欺也。
寡人金钱在天下者往往而有，非必取於吴，诸王日夜用之弗能尽。
有当赐者告寡人，寡人且往遗之。
敬以闻。
translation: 
Anyone who captures and kills a general will be rewarded with five thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households; whoever captures and kills a general will be rewarded with three thousand catties of gold and five thousand households; whoever captures and kills a deputy general will be rewarded with two thousand catties of gold and two thousand households. If an official with a salary of two thousand dan is arrested and killed, he will be rewarded with a thousand catties of gold and a thousand households with food. If an official with a salary of one thousand dan is arrested, he will be rewarded with 500 catties of gold and 500 households with a fief. Those who have meritorious service above can be made marquises.
Those who surrendered with an army or a city with ten thousand soldiers and ten thousand households in the city were treated like generals; soldiers with five thousand households in the city were treated like generals; soldiers with three thousand households in the city were treated like lieutenants; soldiers with one thousand households in the city were treated like officials with two thousand stones; those small officials who surrendered also received titles and rewards according to their positions.
Other rewards were doubled as stipulated by the Han Dynasty.
The number of people in the original enfeoffed cities will only increase and will not remain the same.
I hope that the kings will clearly declare to the scholar-bureaucrats that I dare not deceive them.
My money is available everywhere in the world, and I don't necessarily have to come to Wu to get it. The kings can use it day and night and they can't use it up.
Someone who deserves a reward tells me that I will go and give it to him.
Respectfully inform the kings.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
七国反书闻天子，天子乃遣太尉条侯周亚夫将三十六将军，往击吴楚；遣曲周侯郦寄击赵；将军栾布击齐；大将军窦婴屯荥阳，监齐赵兵。
吴楚反书闻，兵未发，窦婴未行，言故吴相袁盎。
盎时家居，诏召入见。
上方与晁错调兵笇军食，上问袁盎曰： 君尝为吴相，知吴臣田禄伯为人乎？
今吴楚反，於公何如？
对曰： 不足忧也，今破矣。
上曰： 吴王即山铸钱，煮海水为盐，诱天下豪桀，白头举事。若此，其计不百全，岂发乎？
何以言其无能为也？
袁盎对曰： 吴有铜盐利则有之，安得豪桀而诱之！
诚令吴得豪桀，亦且辅王为义，不反矣。
吴所诱皆无赖子弟，亡命铸钱奸人，故相率以反。
晁错曰： 袁盎策之善。
上问曰： 计安出？
translation: 
After the emperor was notified of the rebellion of the seven kingdoms, the emperor sent Taiwei Tiaohou Zhou Yafu to lead thirty-six generals to attack Wu and Chu; he sent Qu Zhouhou Liji to attack Zhao; general Luan Bu attacked Qi; General Dou Ying was stationed in Xingyang to monitor the armies of Qi and Zhao.
When Wu Chu and other rebellious letters were heard, the Han Dynasty's army had not yet set off, and Dou Ying had not yet set out to praise Yuan An, the prime minister of the former King of Wu, to the emperor.
Yuan Ang was relaxing at home at the time, and the emperor summoned him to see him.
The emperor was planning the army and rations with Chao Cuo. The emperor asked Yuan Ang: "You once served as the prime minister of the King of Wu. Do you know the character of Wu's minister Tian Lubo?"
Now that Wu Chu is rebelling, what do you think?
Yuan Ang replied: It's not worth worrying about, we can defeat them immediately.
The emperor said: The king of Wu relied on copper mines to mint coins, boil seawater to make salt, seduce the world's heroes, and raised his troops to rebel when his hair was gray. How could he launch a rebellion without a comprehensive plan?
Why do you say he can't make a difference?
Yuan Ang replied: It is true that the copper mines in Wu State are beneficial to boiling salt. Where can I get heroes and seduce them?
If King Wu can really get heroes, he should help King Wu do what is reasonable, and he will not rebel.
Those whom the King of Wu seduced were all scoundrels, treacherous men who fled to make money, so they seduced each other and rebelled.
Chao Cuo said: Yuan An’s analysis is correct.
The emperor asked: How can we come up with good countermeasures?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
盎对曰： 原屏左右。
上屏人，独错在。
盎曰： 臣所言，人臣不得知也。
乃屏错。
错趋避东厢，恨甚。
上卒问盎，盎对曰： 吴楚相遗书，曰 高帝王子弟各有分地，今贼臣晁错擅適过诸侯，削夺之地 。
故以反为名，西共诛晁错，复故地而罢。
方今计独斩晁错，发使赦吴楚七国，复其故削地，则兵可无血刃而俱罢。
於是上嘿然良久，曰： 顾诚何如，吾不爱一人以谢天下。
盎曰： 臣愚计无出此，原上孰计之。
乃拜盎为太常，吴王弟子德侯为宗正。
盎装治行。
後十馀日，上使中尉召错，绐载行东市。错衣朝衣斩东市。
则遣袁盎奉宗庙，宗正辅亲戚，使告吴如盎策。
translation: 
Yuan An said: I hope to reject the people on the left and right.
The emperor asked everyone around him to retreat, but Chao Cuo remained.
Yuan An said: Even a minister cannot know what I say.
So he dismissed Chao Cuo again.
Chao Cuo hurried to the east chamber to escape, and was very angry about this.
The emperor finally asked Yuan An again, and Yuan An replied: The letters exchanged between Wu and Chu said that the emperor Gaozu appointed the Liu family's children as kings and had their own enfeoffed lands. Now the traitor Chao Cuo has demoted and punished the princes without authorization, and deprived the princes of their land.
In the name of rebellion, they jointly attacked to the west and jointly punished Chao Cuo. They would stop fighting when the original fiefdom was restored.
The current strategy is to kill Chao Cuo, send envoys to pardon the sins of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, and restore the original reduced fiefdoms. Then the war can be over without blood staining the weapons.
So the emperor was silent for a long time and said: What is the real situation? I will not reject the world just because I love someone.
Yuan An said: There is no stupid plan of mine beyond this. I hope the emperor will seriously consider it.
So Yuan Ang was appointed Taichang, and Dehou, the son of King Wu's younger brother, was appointed Zongzheng.
Yuan Ang prepares his luggage secretly.
More than ten days later, the emperor sent a lieutenant to summon Chao Cuo and tricked Chao Cuo into taking a car to patrol the Dongshi. Chao Cuo was killed in Dongshi wearing the clothes of the previous emperor.
Then Yuan An was sent as Taichang to serve the ancestral temple, and Dehou as Zongzheng to assist relatives, to inform the King of Wu according to Yuan An's plan.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
至吴，吴楚兵已攻梁壁矣。
宗正以亲故，先入见，谕吴王使拜受诏。
吴王闻袁盎来，亦知其欲说己，笑而应曰： 我已为东帝，尚何谁拜？
不肯见盎而留之军中，欲劫使将。
盎不肯，使人围守，且杀之，盎得夜出，步亡去，走梁军，遂归报。
条侯将乘六乘传，会兵荥阳。
至雒阳，见剧孟，喜曰： 七国反，吾乘传至此，不自意全。
又以为诸侯已得剧孟，剧孟今无动。
吾据荥阳，以东无足忧者。
至淮阳，问父绛侯故客邓都尉曰： 策安出？
客曰： 吴兵锐甚，难与争锋。楚兵轻，不能久。
方今为将军计，莫若引兵东北壁昌邑，以梁委吴，吴必尽锐攻之。
translation: 
When they arrived in the state of Wu, Wu Chu's army had already attacked the Liang state camp.
Because Zong Zheng was a relative, he went to see the King of Wu first and told the King to kneel down and accept the edict.
When King Wu heard that Yuan An was coming, he also knew that he wanted to convince him, so he smiled and replied: I have become the Eastern Emperor, who else should I kneel down to?
He refused to see Yuan An and detained him in the army, hoping to force Yuan An to become a general.
Yuan An refused, so he sent people to surround and guard him, and were about to kill him. Yuan An was able to escape under the cover of night, left on foot, ran to King Liang's military camp, and then returned to the court to report.
Tiaohou took a six-horse carriage and met at Xingyang.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he saw Ju Meng and said happily: "The Seven Kingdoms rebelled. I arrived here in a carriage. I didn't expect to arrive safely."
I thought that the princes had already obtained Ju Meng, but Ju Meng had no intention of raising an army now.
I have taken Xingyang again, and there is nothing to worry about east of Xingyang.
When he arrived in Huaiyang, he asked his father, Jianghou's former retainer Deng Duwei, "How can I come up with a good strategy?"
The retainer said: Wu Bing is very energetic and it is difficult to win against him. Chu soldiers are impetuous and cannot maintain their vigor for long.
Now I propose a strategy for the general. It is better to lead the army to build a fortress in Changyi in the northeast and give up the Liang State to the Wu Army. The Wu Army will definitely attack Liang with all its elite troops.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
将军深沟高垒，使轻兵绝淮泗口，塞吴饟道。
彼吴梁相敝而粮食竭，乃以全彊制其罢极，破吴必矣。 条侯曰： 善。
从其策，遂坚壁昌邑南，轻兵绝吴饟道。
吴王之初发也，吴臣田禄伯为大将军。
田禄伯曰： 兵屯聚而西，无佗奇道，难以就功。
臣原得五万人，别循江淮而上，收淮南、长沙，入武关，与大王会，此亦一奇也。
吴王太子谏曰： 王以反为名，此兵难以藉人，藉人亦且反王，柰何？
且擅兵而别，多佗利害，未可知也，徒自损耳。
吴王即不许田禄伯。
吴少将桓将军说王曰： 吴多步兵，步兵利险；汉多车骑，车骑利平地。
原大王所过城邑不下，直弃去，疾西据雒阳武库，食敖仓粟，阻山河之险以令诸侯，虽毋入关，天下固已定矣。
即大王徐行，留下城邑，汉军车骑至，驰入梁楚之郊，事败矣。
吴王问诸老将，老将曰： 此少年推锋之计可耳，安知大虑乎！
於是王不用桓将军计。
吴王专并将其兵，未度淮，诸宾客皆得为将、校尉、候、司马，独周丘不得用。
translation: 
The general dug deep trenches and built high fortifications to hold on, and sent lightly-armed troops to cut off the confluence of the Huai River and the Surabaya River and block the Wu army's food route.
Due to the stalemate between Wu and Liang, they were exhausted and their food supplies were exhausted. Then the troops that maintained their strength and vigor were used to subdue those extremely exhausted armies, and it was inevitable to defeat Wu. Tiao Hou said: OK.
According to his plan, he stayed in the south of Changyi, and then sent lightly-armed troops to cut off Wu's army's food routes.
When King Wu first sent troops, Wu Chen Tian Lubo was the general.
Tian Lubo said: If the army gathers together to march westward, it will be difficult to succeed if there is no other way to produce surprise troops.
I would like to lead 50,000 people, and go up along the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, gather the troops from Huainan and Changsha, attack Wuguan, and join forces with the king. This is also a strange plan.
Prince Wu advised: "My father takes rebellion as his banner. It is difficult to entrust such an army to others. What should I do if I entrust others to rebel too?"
Moreover, having an army to act alone has many other advantages and disadvantages that cannot be known in advance, and it will only harm yourself in vain.
King Wu did not agree to Tian Lubo's suggestion.
A young general Huan from the state of Wu said to the king of Wu: The state of Wu mostly has infantry, and infantry is suitable for fighting in difficult terrain; the Han army has many chariots and cavalry, and the chariots and cavalry are suitable for fighting on flat ground.
I hope that if the cities that the king passes through cannot be captured, he will simply give up and leave, quickly march westward to occupy the Luoyang armory, eat Aocang's grain, and rely on the dangers of the mountains and rivers to command the princes. Even if he cannot enter the pass, the overall situation of the world has actually been settled.
If the king is slow to advance and stays to attack the city, and the Han army's chariots and cavalry arrive and rush into the countryside of Liang and Chu, the matter will fail.
The King of Wu consulted the old generals for their opinions. They said: This young man's strategy for charging is okay. How can he know the far-reaching strategy?
So the King of Wu did not adopt General Huan's plan.
King Wu arbitrarily concentrated his troops and led the troops in person. Before crossing the Huaihe River, many guests were awarded the positions of general, lieutenant, marquis, and Sima. Only Zhou Qiu was not appointed.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
周丘者，下邳人，亡命吴，酤酒无行，吴王濞薄之，弗任。
周丘上谒，说王曰： 臣以无能，不得待罪行间。
臣非敢求有所将，原得王一汉节，必有以报王。
王乃予之。
周丘得节，夜驰入下邳。
下邳时闻吴反，皆城守。
至传舍，召令。
令入户，使从者以罪斩令。
遂召昆弟所善豪吏告曰： 吴反兵且至，至，屠下邳不过食顷。
今先下，家室必完，能者封侯矣。
出乃相告，下邳皆下。
周丘一夜得三万人，使人报吴王，遂将其兵北略城邑。
比至城阳，兵十馀万，破城阳中尉军。
闻吴王败走，自度无与共成功，即引兵归下邳。
未至，疽发背死。
translation: 
Zhou Qiu was from Xiapi and fled to Wu. He liked drinking and had bad conduct. King Liu Bi of Wu despised him and did not appoint him.
Zhou Qiu paid homage to King Wu and said to him: Because I have no talent, I cannot serve in the army.
I dare not ask to lead the army. I hope that if you get a Han Dynasty talisman from your Majesty, I will be able to repay you.
The king of Wu gave him the talisman.
Zhou Qiu got the talisman and drove into Xiapi overnight.
When Xiapi heard that King Wu had rebelled, they all defended the city.
Zhou Qiu arrived at the guest house and summoned the magistrate of Xiapi County.
The county magistrate walked in and asked his entourage to kill him on the pretext of the crime.
Then he summoned the wealthy officials who were friends with his brothers and told them: King Wu's rebel army is coming. After arriving, the people in Shajinpi City will only have time to eat.
If you surrender now, your family will be saved, and talented people will be granted the title of marquis.
After these people went out, they told each other that all the people in Xiapi surrendered.
Zhou Qiu got 30,000 men in one night, sent someone to report to the king of Wu, and led his army to the north to capture the city.
By the time they reached Chengyang, the army had grown to more than 100,000 people and they defeated Lieutenant Chengyang's army.
Later, when he heard that King Wu was defeated and fled, he thought that no one would be able to achieve success with him, so he led the army back to Xiapi.
Before arriving, he died of a sore attack on his back.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
二月中，吴王兵既破，败走，於是天子制诏将军曰： 盖闻为善者，天报之以福；为非者，天报之以殃。
高皇帝亲表功德，建立诸侯，幽王、悼惠王绝无後，孝文皇帝哀怜加惠，王幽王子遂、悼惠王子卬等，令奉其先王宗庙，为汉籓国，德配天地，明并日月。
吴王濞倍德反义，诱受天下亡命罪人，乱天下币，称病不朝二十馀年，有司数请濞罪，孝文皇帝宽之，欲其改行为善。
今乃与楚王戊、赵王遂、胶西王卬、济南王辟光、菑川王贤、胶东王雄渠约从反，为逆无道，起兵以危宗庙，贼杀大臣及汉使者，迫劫万民，夭杀无罪，烧残民家，掘其丘冢，甚为暴虐。
今卬等又重逆无道，烧宗庙，卤御物，朕甚痛之。
朕素服避正殿，将军其劝士大夫击反虏。
击反虏者，深入多杀为功，斩首捕虏比三百石以上者皆杀之，无有所置。
敢有议诏及不如诏者，皆要斩。
translation: 
In mid-February, King Wu's army was defeated and fled, so the emperor issued an order to the generals: I heard that those who do good will be rewarded with blessings by God; those who do evil will be rewarded with disaster.
Emperor Gaozu personally commended his merits and granted titles to princes. The titles of King You and King Mouhui were cut off. Emperor Xiaowen took pity on them and gave them special favors. He named Sui, the son of King You, and Yan, the son of King Mouhui, as kings. They allowed them to worship their ancestors in their ancestral temples and became vassal states of the Han Dynasty. Their kindness matched that of heaven and earth, and their light was as bright as the sun and moon.
King Wu Liu Bi violated kindness and morality, seduced the world's fugitive sinners, disturbed the world's coins, and refused to attend court in Beijing for more than 20 years, claiming to be ill. The ministers in charge petitioned many times to punish Liu Bi for his crimes. Emperor Xiaowen forgave him and hoped that he could change his ways and become a good person.
Now he actually made a covenant with King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Zhao, King Liu Xian of Jiaoxi, King Liu Piguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Sichuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Jiaodong, and committed rebellious and immoral acts. He sent troops to endanger the ancestral temple, massacred ministers and envoys of the Han Dynasty, coerced tens of millions of people, killed innocent people indiscriminately, burned down civilian houses, dug graves, and was extremely cruel.
Now Liu Xun, the king of Jiaoxi, and others are even more rebellious and unruly, burning down the ancestral temple and plundering the royal utensils in the ancestral temple. I hate them very much.
I wore white clothes and avoided the main hall. The generals wanted to encourage the scholar-bureaucrats to attack the rebels.
When attacking a rebel enemy, it is meritorious to go deep into the enemy's army and kill as many enemies as possible. The captured officials must be killed if their salary is more than 300 dan and do not release them.
Anyone who dares to discuss the imperial edict or do not act in accordance with the edict will be punished by being cut in half.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
初，吴王之度淮，与楚王遂西败棘壁，乘胜前，锐甚。
梁孝王恐，遣六将军击吴，又败梁两将，士卒皆还走梁。
梁数使使报条侯求救，条侯不许。
又使使恶条侯於上，上使人告条侯救梁，复守便宜不行。
梁使韩安国及楚死事相弟张羽为将军，乃得颇败吴兵。
吴兵欲西，梁城守坚，不敢西，即走条侯军，会下邑。欲战，条侯壁，不肯战。
吴粮绝，卒饥，数挑战，遂夜饹条侯壁，惊东南。
条侯使备西北，果从西北入。
吴大败，士卒多饥死，乃畔散。
於是吴王乃与其麾下壮士数千人夜亡去，度江走丹徒，保东越。
东越兵可万馀人，乃使人收聚亡卒。
汉使人以利啗东越，东越即绐吴王，吴王出劳军，即使人鏦杀吴王，盛其头，驰传以闻。
吴王子子华、子驹亡走闽越。
吴王之弃其军亡也，军遂溃，往往稍降太尉、梁军。
楚王戊军败，自杀。
三王之围齐临菑也，三月不能下。
汉兵至，胶西、胶东、菑川王各引兵归。
translation: 
At the beginning, the King of Wu crossed the Huaihe River and marched westward with the King of Chu. They defeated the Han army at Jibi and moved forward with great vigor.
King Xiao of Liang was afraid and sent six generals to attack King Wu. Two of King Liang's generals were defeated again, and the soldiers fled back to Liang.
The King of Liang repeatedly sent envoys to report the situation to Tiaohou and ask for help, but Tiaohou refused.
He also sent envoys to speak ill of Tiaohou in front of the emperor. The emperor sent people to ask Tiaohou to rescue Liang State, but Tiaohou still insisted on a strategy that was beneficial to him and refused to send troops.
The King of Liang sent Han Anguo and Zhang Yu, the younger brother of the Prime Minister of Chu who was killed for state affairs, as generals, and was able to slightly defeat the Wu army.
The army of the state of Wu wanted to march westward, but the state of Liang held on to the city. The army of Wu did not dare to advance westward, so they ran to the place where Tiaohou was garrisoned and met Tiaohou's army in Xiayi.
The Wu army wanted to fight Tiaohou, but Tiaohou stood firm and refused to fight. Wu's army was short of food and its soldiers were hungry. They challenged Tiaohou several times to no avail, so they attacked Tiaohou's camp at night and harassed the southeastern corner of the formation.
Tiaohou sent people to guard the northwest, and the enemy invaded from the northwest.
The Wu army was defeated. Most of the soldiers starved to death, and some defected and dispersed.
So King Wu and his men, thousands of strong men, fled overnight, crossed the Yangtze River and fled to Danyang, where they were protected by Dongyue.
There were about 10,000 troops in East Vietnam, and they also sent people to take in the deserters gathered in Wu.
The Han Dynasty sent people to lure Dongyue with huge profits. Dongyue deceived the King of Wu and asked the King of Wu to go out to comfort the army. He sent people to assassinate the King of Wu with a spear and halberd, put his head on his head, and sent an express train to quickly report to the emperor.
The sons of King Wu, Zihua and Ziju, fled to Minyue.
When the King of Wu abandoned his army and fled, his army collapsed, and most of them surrendered to the armies of Taiwei and King Liang one after another.
King Liu Wu of Chu was defeated and committed suicide.
The kings of Jiaoxi, Jiaodong and Sichuan of Qi besieged Linyi of Qi and could not capture it for three months.
When the Han army arrived, King Jiaoxi, King Jiaodong, and King Sichuan each led their armies back.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
胶西王乃袒跣，席，饮水，谢太后。
王太子德曰： 汉兵远，臣观之已罢，可袭，原收大王馀兵击之，击之不胜，乃逃入海，未晚也。
王曰： 吾士卒皆已坏，不可发用。
弗听。
汉将弓高侯穨当遗王书曰： 奉诏诛不义，降者赦其罪，复故；不降者灭之。
王何处，须以从事。
王肉袒叩头汉军壁，谒曰： 臣卬奉法不谨，惊骇百姓，乃苦将军远道至于穷国，敢请菹醢之罪。
弓高侯执金鼓见之，曰： 王苦军事，原闻王发兵状。
王顿首膝行对曰： 今者，晁错天子用事臣，变更高皇帝法令，侵夺诸侯地。
卬等以为不义，恐其败乱天下，七国发兵，且以诛错。
今闻错已诛，卬等谨以罢兵归。
将军曰： 王苟以错不善，何不以闻？
未有诏虎符，擅发兵击义国。
以此观之，意非欲诛错也。
乃出诏书为王读之。
读之讫，曰： 王其自图。
王曰： 如卬等死有馀罪。
遂自杀。
太后、太子皆死。
translation: 
The King of Jiaoxi then sat on a straw mat, shirtless and barefoot, drinking water and apologizing to his mother, the Queen Mother.
Crown Prince Liu De said: The Han army has come from afar. I think they are already very tired. I can attack them. I hope to collect the remaining troops of the king to attack the Han army. If the attack fails, it is not too late to flee to the sea.
The King of Jiaoxi said: My soldiers have been dispersed and can no longer be mobilized.
Didn't listen to the prince's words.
Gong Gaohou, the general of the time, sent a letter to the King of Jiaoxi: "If you come to punish the unjust people under the imperial edict, those who surrender will have their sins forgiven and their original titles and lands restored; those who do not surrender will be killed."
What will your Majesty do? I am waiting for a reply to take appropriate action.
The King of Jiaoxi went to the Han army's camp and knelt bare-chested and begged: "I, Liu Xun, violated the king's law and disturbed the people, so the general came all the way to this poor country and asked to be punished for my crime of being cut into pieces."
Marquis Gonggao came to see him holding a golden drum and said: The king is suffering from the war. I want to know the reason why the king sent troops.
The King of Jiaoxi knelt down and replied: At that time, Chao Cuo was the emperor's minister. He changed the laws of Emperor Gaozu and usurped the land of the princes.
We thought this was unjust and worried that he would bring chaos to the world, so the seven kingdoms sent troops to kill Chao Cuo.
Now that we heard that Chao Cuo had been killed, we withdrew our troops and returned.
The general said: If your Majesty thinks Chao Cuo is not good, why don't you report it to the emperor?
Without getting the emperor's edict, he sent troops to attack the righteous princes who abided by the king's law.
From this point of view, your original intention is not to kill Chao Cuo.
He took out the edict and read it to him.
After reading it, he said: Your Majesty, please think about what you should do!
King Jiaoxi said: People like me deserve to die.
Just committed suicide.
The Queen Mother and the Prince also died.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
胶东、菑川、济南王皆死，国除，纳于汉。
郦将军围赵十月而下之，赵王自杀。
济北王以劫故，得不诛，徙王菑川。
初，吴王首反，并将楚兵，连齐赵。
正月起兵，三月皆破，独赵後下。
复置元王少子平陆侯礼为楚王，续元王後。
徙汝南王非王吴故地，为江都王。
太史公曰：吴王之王，由父省也。
能薄赋敛，使其众，以擅山海利。
逆乱之萌，自其子兴。
争技发难，卒亡其本；亲越谋宗，竟以夷陨。
晁错为国远虑，祸反近身。
袁盎权说，初宠後辱。
故古者诸侯地不过百里，山海不以封。 毋亲夷狄，以疏其属 ，盖谓吴邪？ 毋为权首，反受其咎 ，岂盎、错邪？
translation: 
King Jiaodong, King Sichuan, and King Jinan also died successively, and the feudal state was abolished and returned to the Han Dynasty.
General Li besieged the capital of Zhao for ten months before conquering it, and King Zhao committed suicide.
Because the King of Jibei was kidnapped, he was not executed and was moved to the title of King of Sichuan.
At the beginning, Wu King Liu Bi took the lead in the rebellion and led the Chu and Wu armies together, uniting the armies of Qi and Zhao.
In the first month of the year, the army started a rebellion, and in March the whole army was defeated. Only Zhao State was finally conquered.
Emperor Jing also named Pingluhou Liu Li, the youngest son of King Chu Yuan, as King of Chu, as the successor of King Chu Yuan.
Liu Fei, the king of Runan who moved to Wu, took over the original fiefdom of Wu and became the king of Jiangdu.
Tai Shigong said: King Wu Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu because his father was demoted.
The King of Wu was able to exempt taxes and support the people because he had the convenience of copper mines and sea salt.
The idea of ​​​​rebellion came from the death of his son.
He got into trouble because of a chess dispute, and eventually his country was destroyed and he died; he got close to the foreign Yue people and murdered his fellow clan, and finally he died.
Chao Cuo made great plans for the country, but disaster befell him instead.
Yuan An was good at contingency lobbying. He was favored at first, but suffered humiliation in the end.
Therefore, in ancient times, the land of the princes did not exceed a hundred miles, and the mountains and seas were not divided among the princes. If you don't get close to the Yi and Di, you will alienate your clan members. This was probably what you said to the King of Wu, right? Those who don't make plans will be punished. Isn't that what Yuan Ang and Chao Cuo said?


