Chunk 0: 
original: 
贾谊，雒阳人也，年十八，以能诵诗书属文称于郡中。
河南守吴公闻其秀材，召置门下，甚幸爱。
文帝初立，闻河南守吴公治平为天下第一，故与李斯同邑，而尝学事焉，征以为廷尉。
廷尉乃言谊年少，颇通诸家之书。
文帝召以为博士。
是时，谊年二十余，最为少。
每诏令议下，诸老先生未能言，谊尽为之对，人人各如其意所出。诸生于是以为能。
文帝说之，超迁，岁中至太中大夫。
谊以为汉兴二十余年，天下和洽，宜当改正朔，易服色制度，定官名，兴礼乐。
乃草具其仪法，色上黄，数用五，为官名悉更，奏之。
文帝廉让未皇也。
然诸法令所更定，及列侯就国，其说皆谊发之。
于是天子议以谊任公卿之位。
绛、灌、东阳侯、冯敬之属尽害之，乃毁谊曰： 雒阳之人年少初学，专欲擅权，纷乱诸事。
于是天子后亦疏之，不用其议，以谊为长沙王太傅。
谊既以適去，意不自得，及渡湘水，为赋以吊屈原。
屈原，楚贤臣也，被谗放逐，作《离骚赋》，其终篇曰： 已矣！
国亡人，莫我知也。
遂自投江而死。
谊追伤之，因以自谕。
其辞曰：
恭承嘉惠兮，竢罪长沙。
仄闻屈原兮，自湛汨罗。
造托湘流兮，敬吊先生。
遭世罔极兮，乃陨厥身。
乌呼哀哉兮，逢时不祥！
鸾凤伏窜兮，鸱鸮翱翔。
阘茸尊显兮，谗谀得志；贤圣逆曳兮，方正倒植。谓随、夷混兮，谓跖、蹻廉；莫邪为钝兮，铅刀为銛。
translation: 
Jia Yi, a native of Luoyang, was famous locally for his ability to recite poems and write articles when he was eighteen years old.
When Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, heard that he had excellent talents and studies, he summoned him to his sect and thought highly of him.
Not long after Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he heard that Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, had the best political performance in the country. He was from the same hometown as Li Si and had learned from Li Si, so he recruited him as a court captain.
Tingwei recommended that although Jia Yi was young, he was well versed in the books of various schools of thought.
Emperor Wen of Han called Jia Yi to become a doctor.
At this time, Jia Yi was in his twenties and the youngest among the Ph.D.
Every time Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty ordered the questions to be discussed, the older doctors could not say anything, but Jia Yi could answer them one by one, and everyone felt that they had said what they meant. The doctors then thought that Jia Yi had outstanding talents.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty liked him and promoted him unusually, and within a year he was promoted to Taizhong doctor.
Jia Yi believes that the Han Dynasty has been established for more than 20 years and the country is peaceful and harmonious. The calendar should be revised, the colors of carriages and horses should be changed, the legal system should be formulated, the names of official positions should be determined, and rituals and music should be revitalized.
So he drafted regulations for various ceremonies, using yellow as the color of nobility, using a five-character seal for the official seal, confirming the title of the official position, changing all the old systems, and Jia Yi reported to the emperor.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was cautious and had no time to implement it.
However, the changes in various laws and regulations and the fact that various princes moved to their own feudal states were all proposed by Jia Yi.
So Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty discussed with his ministers and let Jia Yi take the position of public minister.
Jianghou, Guanhou, Dongyanghou, Feng Jing and others were jealous of him and slandered him: "This young man in Luoyang is young and has little knowledge. He wants to monopolize power and causes chaos in many things."
Because of this, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty later alienated him, did not adopt his opinions, and made him the Prince of Changsha.
Jia Yi left because he was demoted, and his will was not exerted. When crossing the Xiang River, he wrote a poem in memory of Qu Yuan.
Qu Yuan was a wise minister of the Chu State. He was slandered and exiled. He wrote "Li Sao Fu" and wrote at the end: Forget it!
There is no one in the country who understands me.
So he threw himself into the river and died.
Jia Yi remembered and mourned him, so he compared himself with Qu Yuan.
His poem reads:
In accordance with the emperor's decree, I went to Changsha to take up my post.
I once listened with humility to others saying that Qu Yuan committed suicide by throwing himself into the Miluo River.
Now I come to the bank of the Xiangjiang River to use the water of the Xiangjiang River to express my grief and condolences to Qu Yuan.
A lot of worldly slanderous words are thrown at you, sir. You can only throw yourself into the river and destroy your body.
How sad! You were born at the wrong time and did not encounter a good era.
The magical bird hides or flies away, but the hawk flies in the sky.
There are people in the world who say that Bian Sui, who was not greedy for the world and drowned to death, and Boyi, who did not eat Zhou millet and starved to death, are greedy. Instead, they say that the great thieves Zhi and Jiao are honest. They argue that the famous sword Mo Xie in ancient times is very sharp and slow, while ordinary lead and iron knives are very sharp. well!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于嗟默默，生之亡故兮！
斡弃周鼎，宝康瓠兮。
腾驾罢牛，骖蹇驴兮；骥垂两耳，服盐车兮。
章父荐屦，渐不可久兮；嗟苦先生，独离此咎兮！
谇曰：已矣！国其莫吾知兮，子独壹郁其谁语？
凤缥缥其高逝兮，夫固自引而远去。
袭九渊之神龙兮，沕渊潜以自珍；偭蟂獭以隐处兮，夫岂从虾与蛭螾？
所贵圣之神德兮，远浊世而自臧。
使骐骥可系而羁兮，岂云异夫犬羊？
般纷纷其离此邮兮，亦夫子之故也！
历九州而相其君兮，何必怀此都也？
凤皇翔于千仞兮，览德煇而下之；见细德之险征兮，遥增击而去之。
彼寻常之污渎佤，岂容吞舟之鱼！
横江湖之鳣鲸兮，固将制于蝼蚁。
谊为长沙傅三年，有服飞入谊舍，止于坐隅。
服似鸮，不祥鸟也。
谊既以適居长沙，长沙卑湿，谊自伤悼，以为寿不得长，乃为赋以自广。
其辞曰：
单阏之岁，四月孟夏，庚子日斜，服集余舍，止于坐隅，貌甚闲暇。
异物来崒，私怪其故，发书占之，谶言其度。
曰 野鸟入室，主人将去。
问于子服： 余去何之？
吉乎告我，凶言其灾。
淹速之度，语余其期。
服乃太息，举首奋翼，口不能言，请对以意。
万物变化，固亡休息。斡流而迁，或推而还。
形气转续，变化而嬗。
translation: 
You are so silent and helpless that you are being persecuted for no reason.
He gave up the Zhou Ding treasure that was passed down to the country, but regarded the broken earthen jar as a treasure.
A tired ox is used to drive the shaft, and a lame donkey is used to pull the cart harness; a horse with drooped ears pulls an overweight salt cart.
With Yin people's hats as shoes, can this chaotic situation last long? Hee! Mr. Qu Yuan, who is suffering! You are the only one who has suffered these disasters. Declare: Come on!
Who in the country can understand you? Sir, if you are sulking alone here, who can you tell your innermost thoughts?
If no one understands it, it should fly high and disappear into the distance like a phoenix bird, retiring on its own.
Imitate the dragon hidden in the abyss, hide yourself deep in the water and cherish yourself. How can the dragon associate with water bugs, fish, shrimps, toads, leeches, earthworms and the like?
To stay away from the filthy realm and cherish it yourself, you must cherish the virtues passed down by the saints!
If a horse can be tethered and controlled by others, how is it any different from a dog or a sheep?
You have encountered all kinds of persecution and misfortunes because you did not keep yourself clean and stay away from this dirty world!
You can travel around the land of China and choose a wise king to assist him. Why do you have to miss Chu State?
A gentleman like a phoenix can fly thousands of miles into the sky, and will only come down when he sees a wise king with glorious virtues. When he sees signs of danger in his shortcomings and despicable virtues, he immediately flaps his wings and flies away.
How could a large fish that could swallow a boat be accommodated in a stagnant puddle with only a dozen feet in length and width?
The big fish swimming back and forth in rivers and lakes will inevitably be attacked by mole crickets and ants once they swim into stagnant puddles.
In Jia Yi's third year as the Tutor of Changsha, an owl flew into Jia Yi's room and stopped next to his seat.
The owl is like a cuckoo and is an unlucky bird.
Jia Yi had been demoted and came to live in Changsha. Changsha was low-lying and humid. Jia Yi was often sad and thought that his life would not be long, so he wrote poems to comfort himself.
Fu wrote:
On the evening of the 23rd day of the first month of summer in the year Dingmao, when the sun was about to set, an owl perched in my living room, staying on the corner of the seat with a very leisurely and unhurried look.
This strange bird perched in my home. When I saw the owl flying into my room, I secretly guessed the reason for its arrival. I opened the divination book and checked the predictions based on the predictions in the book.
The book says: Wild birds fly into the house, and the owner of the house will leave this place.
I asked the owl: Where am I going?
If something auspicious happens, tell me. Even if something bad happens, please tell me what the disaster is.
Is my life span long or short? Please tell me a period.
The owl sighed, then raised its head and flapped its wings vigorously. Although it could not speak human language, it could answer with gestures and guess its mood based on its expression.
It means: Thousands of species in the world cycle and change, and there is no end to them. They rotate, flow, and change. Sometimes they rotate and disappear, and sometimes they move and return.
The transformation of form and energy is continuous and endless, just like the transformation of a cicada.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
沕穆亡间，胡可胜言！
祸兮福所倚，福兮祸所伏；忧喜聚门，吉凶同域。
彼吴强大，夫差以败；粤栖会稽，句践伯世。
斯游遂成，卒被五刑；傅说胥靡，乃相武丁。
夫祸之与福，何异纠纆！
命不可说，孰知其极？
水激则旱，矢激则远。
万物回薄，震荡相转。
云烝雨降，纠错相纷。
大钧播物，坱圠无垠。
天不可与虑，道不可与谋。
迟速有命，乌识其时？
且夫天地为炉，造化为工；阴阳为炭，万物为铜，合散消息，安有常则？
千变万化，未始有极。
忽然为人，何足控揣；化为异物，又何足患！
小智自私，贱彼贵我；达人大观，物亡不可。
贪夫徇财，列士徇名；夸者死权，品庶每生。
怵迫之徒，或趋西东；大人不曲，意变齐同。
愚士系俗，僒若囚拘；至人遗物，独与道俱。
众人惑惑，好恶积意；真人恬漠，独与道息。
释智遗形，超然自丧；寥廓忽荒，与道翱翔。
乘流则逝，得坎则止；纵躯委命，不私与已。
其生兮若浮，其死兮若休。
澹虖若深渊之靓，泛虖若不系之舟。
不以生故自保，养空而浮。
德人无累，知命不忧。细故蒂芥，何足以疑！
translation: 
There are so many profound and subtle things that cannot be described in words. It is simply beyond words.
Misfortune contains the cause of blessing, and blessing contains the root of disaster. Misfortunes and blessings follow each other. Misfortunes often lead to blessings, and blessings hide disasters. Sadness and joy gather at the same door, good and bad luck come together in the same area.
Li Si successfully lobbied the Qin State and became the prime minister of the Qin State. Later, he was killed by Zhao Gao and died of five punishments.
Fu Yue was originally a prisoner who was tied up one after another for hard labor, but finally became the prime minister of Yin Gaozong Wuding.
So how is the relationship between blessing and misfortune different from two or three strands of rope twisted together?
Destiny cannot be explained clearly. Who knows where its ultimate end will be!
When water is stimulated, it flows rapidly, and when arrows are stimulated, they can shoot far.
All things are oscillating back and forth, constantly changing and transforming.
When water is heated, it evaporates and becomes clouds; when clouds are cooled, they fall from the sky and become rain. The natural phenomena of changes in things are so complicated that they cannot be distinguished clearly.
The creation of all things in nature is like using a pottery wheel to move creation, with many changes and a vast scope.
The principles of Heaven and the Way are far-reaching and cannot be thought of or planned by humans.
The length of human life and the speed of birth and death are determined by destiny. How can one predict its time limit?
Moreover, heaven and earth are like a furnace for smelting metal, and the Creator of all things is like a metallurgist. Take Yin and Yang as the charcoal fire in the smelting furnace, and all things in nature as the copper ore to be smelted. How can there be a certain pattern in all this, gathering and destroying, creating and destroying existence?
The ever-changing nature of all things has no beginning or end.
Being born as a human by chance is not worthy of being overly cherished; being born as a ghost or god after death is not worthy of being overly sad!
People who are short-sighted and clever are always selfish, treating others as cheap and themselves as valuable. A wise person has a broad vision and a broad mind, and there is nothing inappropriate about treating all things equally.
Greedy people sacrifice their lives for wealth, people who value justice over life die in the name of integrity; people who seek fame and value power die fighting for power.
Most common people are greedy for life and afraid of death. People who are seduced by fame and fortune and driven by greed for money run around and camp all day long. People with high moral cultivation will not succumb to material desires, and they will treat all things equally no matter how they change.
Foolish people are tied down by the burdens of the world, and their embarrassment is like that of imprisoned prisoners. People with supreme morals abandon the encumbrances of external things and coexist with the great road.
People are in constant panic and doubt, and their minds are filled with many lovely and abominable things. But the real person who has obtained the way of heaven and earth is very quiet and indifferent, coexisting with the great way alone.
Give up wisdom and thinking, abandon the body, until the heart is as gray as death and the body is like a draft, reaching the highest state of life cultivation. In the vast, trance-like and profound world, the real person who has obtained the way of heaven and earth has nothing to rely on, but can only soar with the way.
Life is like a piece of wood floating on water, drifting along the water into the distance, only stopping when it hits a small islet in the water. Let your body be controlled by fate, and do not regard your body as your own private property.
When you are alive, it is like entrusting your life to the world, and after death, it is like resting forever.
An indifferent life is like an abyss as quiet as death, and the waves of thoughts that add fuel to the flames are like an unmoored ship.
You should not cherish your life too much just because you are born in the human world. It is best to nourish your emptiness so that you can float among the human world.
People who are cultivated and virtuous have no worries, live without thoughts and actions, and do not hide right and wrong, good and evil, because they know their destiny and will not seek sorrow. What's there to be suspicious about something as trivial as an owl flying indoors!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
后岁余，文帝思谊，征之。
至，入见，上方受厘，坐宣室。
上因感鬼神事，而问鬼神之本。
谊具道所以然之故。
至夜半，文帝前席。
既罢，曰： 吾久不见贾生，自以为过之，今不及也。
乃拜谊为梁怀王太傅。
怀王，上少子，爱，而好书，故令谊傅之，数问以得失。
是时，匈奴强，侵边。
天下初定，制度疏阔。
诸侯王僣拟，地过古制，淮南、济北王皆为逆诛。
谊数上疏陈政事，多所欲匡建，其大略曰：
臣窃惟事势，可为痛哭者一，可为流涕者二，可为长太息者六，若其它背理而伤道者，难遍以疏举。
进言者皆曰天下已安已治矣，臣独以为未也。
曰安且治者，非愚则谀，皆非事实知治乱之体者也。
夫抱火厝之积薪之下而寝其上，火未及燃，因谓之安，方今之势，何以异此！
本末舛逆，首尾衡决，国制抢攘，非甚有纪，胡可谓治！
陛下何不壹令臣得孰数之于前，因陈治安之策，试详择焉！
夫射猎之娱，与安危之机孰急 使为治，劳智虑，苦身体，乏钟鼓之乐，勿为可也。
乐与今同，而加之诸侯轨道，兵革不动，民保首领，匈奴宾服，四荒乡风，百姓素朴，狱讼衰息，大数既得，则天下顺治，海内之气清和咸理，生为明帝，没为明神，名誉之美，垂于无穷《礼》祖有功而宗有德，使顾成之庙称为太宗，上配太祖，与汉亡极。
translation: 
More than a year later, Emperor Wen of Han missed Jia Yi and summoned him back to the capital Chang'an.
Jia Yi arrived and entered the court to ask for an audience. Emperor Wen of Han was receiving the blessings from the gods and sat in the Xuan room to receive Jia Yi.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty had some feelings about ghosts and gods, so he asked Jia Yi about the origin of ghosts and gods.
Jia Yi explained the rationale in detail.
The conversation lasted until late at night, and Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty moved to the front of the table without noticing.
After the discussion, Emperor Wen of Han said: I haven't seen Jia Sheng for a long time. I thought I was better than him, but today it seems that I am still not as good as him.
So Jia Yi was appointed as the Taifu of King Huai of Liang.
King Huai of Liang was the youngest son of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty. He was very favored and liked to read, so he asked Jia Yi to be his teacher. He asked Jia Yi many times for advice on success and failure.
During this period, the Xiongnu became powerful and often invaded the Han Dynasty's borders.
The Han Dynasty had just been established, and the laws and regulations were rough and unclear.
The princes and kings exceeded the scope of their power and occupied more land than the ancient system. The king of Huainan and the king of Jibei were both executed for rebellion.
Jia Yi went to Shu to state political affairs many times. Most of his opinions were to change and establish a new system. The general idea was:
I have privately considered the current national situation and believe that there is one thing that can be cried over, two things that can be shed tears over, and six things that can be sighed over. As for the other things that go against the truth and harm the right path, it is difficult to list them in detail.
Those who advise His Majesty say that the country is already peaceful and well-governed, but I personally think that the country is far from being well-governed.
Those who say that the country is stable and well-governed are either stupid or flattering. They are not people who understand the fundamentals of governing chaos based on facts.
This is like putting fire under a pyre and sleeping on it. If the pyre is not lit, it is safe. How is the current situation in the country different from this situation?
The beginning and end have been reversed, the front and rear embankments have been destroyed, the country's system is in chaos, and it is not very disciplined. How can it be said that it has been governed well?
Your Majesty, why don't you allow me the opportunity to state in detail the strategies for national political improvement and social stability, and let you choose carefully?
Which is more important, the entertainment of hunting, or the key to grasping the security of the country? It is wrong to think that governing a country requires hard work and pain on the body, and lacks the entertainment of bells and drums.
Entertainment was the same as it is now, coupled with the fact that the princes abide by the law, there was no war in the country, the people were stable, the Xiongnu surrendered, people in remote areas submitted to the court, the people were simple and unpretentious, and disputes and lawsuits gradually disappeared. If the general plan of governing the country is mastered, the world will be governed smoothly, the social climate will be peaceful and harmonious, and everything will be reasonable. When you are alive, you will be a wise emperor, and when you die, you will be a god. Your good reputation will be passed down through the ages. "The Rites of Zhou" says that as a founding monarch, you must be meritorious, and as a successor monarch, you must be virtuous, so that your majesty's imperial merits will match those of the great ancestor Liu Bang, and will be immortalized together with the rule of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
建久安之势，成长治之业，以承祖庙，以奉六亲，至孝也；以幸天下，以育群生，至仁也；立经陈纪，轻重同得，后可以为万世法程，虽有愚幼不肖之嗣，犹得蒙业而安，至明也。
以陛下之明达，因使少知治体者得佐下风，致此非难也。
其具可素陈于前，愿幸无忽。
臣谨稽之天地，验之往古，按之当今之务，日夜念此至孰也，虽使禹、舜复生，为陛下计，亡以易此。
夫树国固必相疑之势，下数被其殃，上数爽其忧，甚非所以安上而全下也。
今或亲弟谋为东帝，亲兄之子西乡而击，今吴又见告矣。
天子春秋鼎盛，行义未过，德泽有加焉，犹尚如是，况莫大诸侯，权力且十此者乎！
然而天下少安，何也？
大国之王幼弱未壮，汉之所置傅、相方握其事。
数年之后，诸侯之王大抵皆冠，血气方刚，汉之傅、相称病而赐罢，彼自丞、尉以上偏置私人，如此，有异淮南、济北之为邪！
此时而欲为治安，虽尧、舜不治。
黄帝曰： 日中必，操刀必割。
今令此道顺而全安，甚易，不肯早为，已乃堕骨肉之属而抗刭之，岂有异秦之季世乎！
夫以天子之位，乘今之时，因天之助，尚惮以危为安，以乱为治，假设陛下居齐桓之处，将不合诸侯而匡天下乎？
臣又知陛下有所必不能矣。
假设天下如曩时，淮阴侯尚王楚，黥布王淮南，彭越王梁，韩信王韩，张敖王赵，贯高为相，卢绾王燕，陈豨在代，令此六七公者皆亡恙，当是时而陛下即天子位，能自安乎？
臣有以知陛下之不能也。
translation: 
It is the most filial to establish a permanent stable situation and establish a foundation of long-term rule, so as to inherit the ancestral inheritance and support the six relatives. This is the most filial. It is to benefit the world and nourish all living things. This is the most benevolent. It is the most wise to establish principles, promulgate rules and regulations, and handle the priorities appropriately. Then it can become a law for eternity. Even if there are stupid and ineffective descendants, the ancestral inheritance can be stabilized. This is the most wise.
With Your Majesty's wisdom and understanding, it is not difficult to do this as long as you have people who know a little bit about the principles of governing the country to assist you.
These methods can be placed in front of you as they are, and I hope you will not ignore them.
I carefully examine nature and society, use history to verify it, study the things that must be solved at present, and think about this set of methods of governing the country day and night, which has become very mature. Even if Yu and Shun are reborn and plan for Your Majesty, they will not change this approach.
The power of the vassal kingdoms will inevitably lead to a situation of mutual suspicion and opposition between the princes and the imperial court. As a result, the people often suffer disasters, and the imperial court is often worried about this. This is really not a way to stabilize the imperial court and protect the people.
Now your brother is planning to proclaim himself emperor in the Shubu area, and his son is also heading west to attack the imperial court. At the same time, reports of King Wu's rebellion have been reported.
Your Majesty is in the prime of life, he behaves morally and without fault, and his favor to the princes and kings continues to increase. Even if they are like this, let alone the largest princes, whose power is ten times more powerful than them!
However, the world is still somewhat stable. What is the reason for this?
Because the kings of those large vassal states were still underage, the imperial tutors and prime ministers sent by the imperial court were in control of the kingdom.
A few years later, most of the princes and kings will be crowned and full of energy. The imperial tutors and prime ministers appointed by the imperial court will have to excuse themselves because of illness. Those princes and kings will appoint officials above the prime minister level as their cronies. Like this, what is the difference between what they do and the king of Huainan and the king of Jibei!
At that time, even Tang Yao and Yu Shun could not achieve long-term peace and stability in the country.
Huangdi said: You must dry things when the sun is in the middle, and you must cut things quickly with a knife.
Now it is very easy to follow this principle to consolidate the country and make the people safe. If measures are not taken as soon as possible, the relationship between flesh and blood will be hurt, and even their heads will be killed. Is this any different from the last years of the Qin Dynasty?
Now, relying on your power as the Emperor, taking advantage of today's favorable opportunity, and relying on God's blessing, you still have concerns about measures to turn danger into peace and change chaos into order. If Your Majesty were in the position of Duke Heng of Qi, could you still unite the princes to restore order in the world?
I know that Your Majesty must not do this.
If the country's situation remains as it was before, with Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, still ruling Chu, Ying Bu ruling Huainan, Peng Yue ruling Liang, Han Wangxin ruling South Korea, Zhang Ao ruling Zhao, Guan Gao being Zhao's prime minister, Lu Wan ruling Yan, and Chen Xi still ruling Dai. If these six or seven people are still alive, and Your Majesty is now the emperor, can you feel safe?
I have reason to think it cannot.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
天下淆乱，高皇帝与诸公并起，非有仄室之势以豫席之也。
诸公幸者，乃为中涓，其次廑得舍人，材之不逮至远也。
高皇帝以明圣威武即天子位，割膏腴之地以王诸公，多者百余城，少者乃三四十县，德至渥也，然其后十年之间，反者九起。
陛下之与诸公，非亲角材而臣之也，又非身封王之也，自高皇帝不能以是一岁为安，故臣知陛下之不能也。
然尚有可诿者，曰疏，臣请试言其亲者。
假令悼惠王王齐，元王王楚，中子王赵，幽王王淮阳，共王王梁，灵王王燕，厉王王淮南，六七贵人皆亡恙，当是时陛下即位，能为治乎？
臣又知陛下之不能也。
若此诸王，虽名为臣，实皆有布衣昆弟之心，虑亡不帝制而天子自为者。
擅爵人，赦死罪，甚者或戴黄屋，汉法令非行也。
虽行不轨如厉王者，令之不肯听，召之安可致乎！
幸而来至，法安可得加！
动一亲戚，天下圜视而起，陛下之臣虽有悍如冯敬者，适启其口，匕首已陷其匈矣。
陛下虽贤，谁与领此？
故疏者必危，亲者必乱，已然之效也。
其异姓负强而动者，汉已幸胜之矣，又不易其所以然。
同姓袭是迹而动，既有征矣，其势尽又复然。
殃祸之变，未知后移，明帝处之尚不能以安，后世将如之何！
屠牛坦一朝解十二牛，而芒刃不顿者，所排击剥割，皆众理解也。
至于髋髀之所，非斤则斧。
夫仁义恩厚，人主之芒刃也；权势法制，人主之斤斧也。
今诸侯王皆众髋髀也，释斤斧之用，而欲婴以芒刃，臣以为不缺则折。
translation: 
At that time, the world was in chaos, and Emperor Gao raised an army with these people. At first, he had no relatives to rely on.
The lucky ones among these people were the ones who got the title of Zhongjuan, while the less fortunate ones only became sacrificers. Their talents were far inferior to those of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Gao ascended to the throne of emperor by virtue of his sage and might, and enfeoffed the fertile land to these people as princes and kings. The most were more than a hundred cities, and the least were thirty or forty counties. His kindness was extremely profound. But in the next ten years, nine rebellions occurred.
Your Majesty's relationship with these people is not that he personally fought with them to make them willing to surrender, nor did he personally make them princes and kings. In this case, Emperor Gao couldn't get a year of peace, so I know that His Majesty couldn't get peace either.
However, there is another excuse for being distant from them, so let me talk about those people with the same surname who are close to them.
Suppose King Hui Hui is still the king of Qi, King Yuan is still the king of Chu, Zhongzi is the king of Chang, King You is the king of Huaiyang, King Gong is the king of Liang, King Ling is the king of Yan, and King Li is the king of Huainan. If these six or seven nobles are still alive, and your majesty ascends the throne as the emperor, will you be able to govern the country well?
And I know that Your Majesty cannot.
Although these princes and kings with the same surname were ministers in name, they actually believed that they had a general brotherly relationship with the emperor. None of them did not want to adopt the emperor's etiquette system to make themselves emperor.
They granted nobility without authorization, pardoned those who had committed capital crimes, and some even rode in the emperor's special carriage with a yellow silk cover. The laws of the Han Dynasty could not be implemented there.
Even if it can be implemented, he will not obey the orders of people with evil intentions like King Li, so how can he come when summoned?
If he gets lucky, how can the law be imposed on him?
If a relative is punished, all the princes and kings in the world will stand up in rebellion. Although there was a brave man like Feng Jing among His Majesty's ministers, the assassin's dagger had already pierced his chest just as he was about to report him to the princes.
Although Your Majesty is wise, who can assist you in governing these princes and kings?
Therefore, distant kings with different surnames will definitely harm the country, and close kings with the same surname will definitely rebel. This has been proven by facts.
The Han Dynasty was lucky enough to defeat those princes and kings of different surnames who rebelled because of their own strength, but it did not change the cause of the chaos.
The princes and kings with the same surname launched a rebellion along this old road again. There are already signs, and the situation is exactly the same as in the past.
The disaster is changing, and we still don’t know where it will evolve. A wise emperor like you cannot bring peace to the country under such circumstances. What will future generations do?
Tan Niu Tan slaughtered twelve cows in one morning, but the sharp blade did not become dull. This was because the places he slapped and stripped were between the gaps between the muscles and bones.
As for dealing with the thigh bone, either use a machete or an axe.
Benevolence, righteousness and kindness are like the sharp blade on the soap, power and legal system are like the emperor's machete and axe.
Nowadays, the princes and kings are like thigh bones. They do not use machetes or axes to cut them, but use sharp blades to cut them. I think they will either get a gap or be broken.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
胡不用之淮南、济北？
势不可也。
臣窃迹前事，大抵强者先反。
淮阴王楚最强，则最先反；韩信倚胡，则又反；贯高因赵资，则又反；陈豨兵精，则又反；彭越用梁，则又反；黥布用淮南，则又反；卢绾最弱，最后反。
长沙乃在二万五千户耳，功少而最完，势疏而最忠，非独性异人也，亦形势然也。
曩令樊、郦、绛、灌据数十城而王，今虽以残亡可也；令信、越之伦列为彻侯而居，虽至今存可也。
然则天下之大计可知已。
欲诸王之皆忠附，则莫若令如长沙王；欲臣子之勿菹醢，则莫若令如樊、郦等；欲天下之治安，莫若众建诸侯而少其力。
力少则易使以义，国小则亡邪心。
令海内之势如身之使臂，臂之使指，莫不制从，诸侯之君不敢有异心，辐凑并进而归命天子，虽在细民，且知其安，故天下咸知陛下之明。
割地定制，令齐、赵、楚各为若干国，使悼惠王、幽王、元王之子孙毕以次各受祖之分地，地尽而止，及燕、梁它国皆然。
其分地众而子孙少者，建以为国，空而置之，须其子孙生者，举使君之。
诸侯之地其削颇入汉者，为徙其侯国及封其子孙也，所以数偿之；一寸之地，一人之众，天子亡所利焉，诚以定治而已，故天下咸知陛下之廉。
地制壹定，宗室子孙莫虑不王，下无倍畔之心，上无诛伐之志，故天下咸知陛下之仁。
法立而不犯，令和而不逆，贯高、利几之谋不生，柴奇、开章之计不萌，细民乡善，大臣致顺，故天下咸知陛下之义。
卧赤子天下之上而安，植遗腹，朝委裘，而天下不乱，当时大治，后世诵圣。
壹动而五业附，陛下谁惮而久不为此？
translation: 
Why not treat the King of Huainan and the King of Jibei with benevolence, justice and kindness?
Because the situation does not allow it.
I have privately investigated what happened in the past, and most of them were the powerful princes and kings who rebelled first.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, became the king of Chu and was the strongest, so he was the first to rebel; Han Wangxin relied on the power of the Xiongnu and continued to rebel; Guan Gao relied on the superior conditions of the state of Tong and rebelled; Chen Xi had a strong army and rebelled; Peng Yue used the power of Liang and rebelled; Tingbu relied on the power of Huainan and rebelled; Lu Wan was the weakest and was the last to rebel.
The King of Changsha's fiefdom had a population of only 25,000 households. He had little merit but was the most well-preserved, weak in power but the most loyal to the court. This was not because of his unique personality that was different from other princes and kings, but because of the situation that made him like this.
If Fan Sha, Li Shang, Zhou Bo, Guan Ying and others were made vassal kings occupying dozens of cities in the past, even if their power has been weakened now, it is not allowed. If people like Han Xin and Peng Yue were allowed to only occupy the status of Chehou, it would be okay even if they still exist now.
In this case, the plan for governing the country can be known.
If you want to make the princes and kings loyal to the court, then it is best to make them as small and weak as the King of Changsha; if you want to prevent the ministers from being chopped into meat paste, then it is best to make them like Fan Sha, Li Shang and others who only make princes but not kings;
When the power is small, it is easy to use laws to mobilize them; when the feudal state is small, there will be no evil intention to rebel.
If the situation in the whole country is like the body directing the arms and the arms directing the fingers, there will be no one who is disobedient. The princes and kings did not dare to have two minds, just like the spokes of a wheel gathering to the axle, they all obeyed the emperor's orders. Even ordinary people will feel that the country is stable, so everyone in the world knows your Majesty's wisdom.
Divide the land and establish a system to divide the large vassal states of Qi, Tang, Chu, etc. into several small states, so that the descendants of King Huihui, King You, and King Yuan will inherit a share of the fiefdom from their ancestors in order of eldest and youngest until all the divisions are completed. As for other vassal states such as Yan and Liang, they also did the same.
Those vassal states with many fiefdoms and few descendants are also divided into several small states, and the throne can be temporarily vacant. When they have descendants, all of them will be made kings of the vassal states.
If a prince's land was greatly reduced and returned to the imperial court, his fiefdom and his descendants would be moved to other places, and the original amount of land would be returned to him. The emperor didn't want to take possession of an inch of land or a single common people. It was really just for the sake of the stability of the country. Therefore, everyone in the world knows His Majesty's integrity.
Once the system of dividing the land is established, no one in the clan will worry about becoming the king, the princes and kings will have no intention of betrayal, and the emperor will have no thoughts of crusade. Therefore, everyone in the world will know your majesty's benevolence.
The legal system is established but no one violates it, and the government decree is implemented but no one disobeys it. Conspiracies like Guan Gao and Li Ji will not happen, and tricks like Chai Qi and Kaizhang will not appear. The people will tend to be kind, and the ministers will obey. Therefore, everyone in the world will know the justice of the emperor.
In this way, even if a young child is made the emperor, the country will be peaceful; even if the child is appointed as the emperor, and the ministers are asked to pay homage to the clothes left by the late emperor, the world will not be in chaos. In this way, great governance can be achieved in the current generation, and future generations will also praise His Majesty's sage.
If you implement this measure, you will be able to achieve these five achievements. Why is Your Majesty still worried about delaying in doing so?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
天下之势方病大瘇。
一胫之大几如要，一指之大几如股，平居不可屈信，一二指搐，身虑亡聊。
失今不治，必为锢疾，后虽有扁鹊，不能为已。
病非徒瘇也，又苦炙盭。
元王之子，帝之从弟也；今之王者，从弟之子也。
惠王，亲兄子也；今之王者，兄子之子也。
亲者或亡分地以安天下，疏者或制大权以逼天子，臣故曰非徒病瘇也，又苦炙盭。
可痛哭者，此病是也。
天下之势方倒县。
凡天子者，天下之首，何也？
上也。
蛮夷者，天下之足，何也？
下也。
今匈奴嫚侮侵掠，至不敬也，为天下患，至亡已也，而汉岁致金絮采缯以奉之。
夷狄征令，是主上之操也；天子共贡，是臣下之礼也。
足反居上，首顾居下，倒县如此，莫之能解，犹为国有人乎？
非亶倒县而已，又类辟，且病痱。
夫辟者一面病，痱者一方痛。
今西边北边之郡，虽有长爵不轻得复，五尺以上不轻得息，斥候望烽燧不得卧，将吏被介胄而睡，臣故曰一方病矣。
医能治之，而上不使，可为流涕者此也。
陛下何忍以帝皇之号为戎人诸侯，势既卑辱，而祸不息，长此安穷！
进谋者率以为是，固不可解也，亡具甚矣。
臣窃料匈奴之众不过汉一大县，以天下之大困于一县之众，甚为执事者羞之。
陛下何不试以臣为属国之官以主匈奴？
行臣之计，请必系单于之颈而制其命，伏中行说而笞其背，举匈奴之众唯上之令。
translation: 
At present, the situation in the world is like a person suffering from swollen feet.
One calf was swollen to be almost as thick as the waist, and one toe was swollen to be almost as thick as a thigh. I can't bend or stretch normally, one or two toes twitch, and I feel unbearable pain all over my body.
If it is not treated in time now, it will inevitably become an incurable disease, and even Bian Que will be unable to do anything about it in the future.
Moreover, he suffers not only from swollen feet, but also from twisted soles of his feet.
The son of King Yuan is your majesty’s cousin; the one who is now the king of Chu is the son of your majesty’s cousin.
King Hui's son is the son of your Majesty's brother, and the one who is now King of Qi is your Majesty's brother's grandson.
Now, some of His Majesty's close relatives do not have fiefdoms to maintain stability in the world, while some estranged people hold great power to threaten the Emperor. Therefore, I said that not only did I suffer from swollen feet, but I also suffered from twisted soles of my feet.
This is the kind of disease you can cry over.
Now, the situation in the world is upside down.
The emperor is the head of the world, why?
Because it's on top.
Barbarians are the foot of the world, why?
Because it's down there.
Now the Xiongnu wantonly insults, invades and plunders the Han Dynasty, and is disrespectful to the extreme. It has become a scourge to the world without end, but the Han Dynasty still sends a large amount of money, silk floss and various colorful silk fabrics to it every year.
When the Xiongnu issued orders to the Han Dynasty, they held the authority of the emperor; when the emperor paid tribute to the Xiongnu, he performed the courtesy of his ministers.
Now the feet are on the top and the head is on the bottom. If it is so upside down and cannot be saved, how can it be said that it has the talent to govern the country?
Not only was he upside down, but he also seemed to be suffering from foot disease and rheumatism.
Podiatry is only a localized disease, while rheumatism is a pain in a large area.
Now on the western border, even those with high titles cannot be exempted from military service easily. People above children cannot get any rest due to war preparations. The sentries watch the beacon fire day and night and cannot sleep peacefully. The generals all sleep wearing clang armor. So I say this is a disease on one side.
Doctors could treat this disease, but the emperor did not allow him to treat it. This is something you can shed tears over.
How can your Majesty endure using the title of dignified emperor to become a prince of the Xiongnu? The status is both humiliating and humiliating, and the disasters are endless. If this continues, there will be no end.
It's really incomprehensible that the people who gave the advice thought this was the right thing to do. These people were simply incompetent to the extreme.
I privately estimate that the population of the Xiongnu is only that of a large county in the Han Dynasty. With such a large world, but being trapped by the Xiongnu with a population of only one county, I am really ashamed of the ministers in power.
Why doesn't Your Majesty appoint me as a vassal official to take charge of the Huns?
If I carry out my plan, I will be able to capture Chanyu, control his life and death, subdue Zhong Xingshuo and whip his back, and make the entire Xiongnu obey His Majesty's orders.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今不猎猛敌而猎田彘，不搏反寇而搏畜菟，玩细娱而不图大患，非所以为安也。
德可远施，威可远加，而直数百里外威令不信，可为流涕者此也。
今民卖僮者，为之绣衣丝履偏诸缘，内之闲中，是古天子后服，所以庙而不宴者也，而庶人得以衣婢妾。
白縠之表，薄纫之里，緁以偏诸，美者黼绣，是古天子之服，今富人大贾嘉会召客者以被墙。
古者以奉一帝一后而节适，今庶人屋壁得为帝服，倡优下贱得为后饰，然而天下不屈者，殆未有也。
且帝之身自衣皂绨，而富民墙屋被文绣；天子之后以缘其领，庶人孽妾缘其履：此臣所谓舛也。
夫百人作之不能衣一人，欲天下亡寒，胡可得也？
一人耕之，十人聚而食之，欲天下亡饥，不可得也。
饥寒切于民之肌肤，欲其亡为奸邪，不可得也。
国已屈矣，盗贼直须时耳，然而献计者曰 毋动为大 耳。
夫俗至大不敬也，至亡等也，至冒上也，进计者犹曰 毋为 ，可为长太息者此也。
商君遗礼义，弃仁恩，并心于进取，行之二岁，秦俗日败。
故秦人家富子壮则出分，家贫子壮则出赘。
借父耰锄，虑有德色；毋取箕帚，立而谇语。
抱哺其子，与公并倨；妇姑不相说，则反唇而相稽。其慈子耆利，不同禽兽者亡几耳。
然并心而赴时，犹曰蹶六国，兼天下。
translation: 
Now we hunt wild boars instead of fighting fierce enemies, hunt rabbits instead of traitors, and pursue entertainment without thinking about relieving the country from serious disasters. This is not a way to bring peace to the world.
The emperor's kindness could have been extended to far away places, but now it was no longer feasible within just a few hundred miles. This is something you can shed tears over.
Nowadays, people who sell slaves among the people dress the slaves in embroidered clothes and silk shoes with lace and enclose them in wooden fences. These slaves wear the clothes of ancient queens, and the queens do not usually wear them, and only wear them during sacrifices, but now they are used by ordinary people to dress their maids and concubines.
The face is made of white crepe, and thin cooked silk is used as lining and wrapping. It is also trimmed with lace, and even more beautiful ones are embroidered with patterns. This is the costume of ancient emperors. Nowadays, wealthy businessmen buy it to entertain guests at banquets, but they are used to hang on the wall.
In ancient times, these costumes were only used to serve one emperor and one queen, and were modest and appropriate. Nowadays, ordinary people hang the emperor's clothes on their house walls, and the despicable ones also wear the queen's clothes. If the world's financial resources are not exhausted, I'm afraid it won't be possible.
Moreover, the emperor himself wore thick black silk fabrics, while the walls of the wealthy people were covered with gorgeous embroidery; the queen used the lace to lace her collars, but the common people's maids and concubines used it to lace the collars of their shoes. This created the confusion I am talking about.
One hundred people can make clothes that cannot be worn by one person. How can it be possible to protect the people of the world from the cold?
It is impossible for ten people to gather together to eat the food that one person cultivates and harvests so that the whole world will not go hungry.
Hunger and cold are related to people's bodies, and it is impossible to prevent them from doing evil things.
The country's financial resources have been depleted, and it will only take time for thieves to rise. However, the person who offered the advice said: No change is the best policy.
The social atmosphere has reached the point where there is extreme disrespect for superiors. There is simply no hierarchy, and it is simply offensive to the emperor. However, the person who offered the advice said: Don't change this situation. This is the kind of thing you can sigh deeply for.
Lord Shang abandoned etiquette and justice, abandoned benevolence and kindness, and devoted himself to reform to become stronger. His reform proposals were implemented for two years, and the customs of the Qin Dynasty gradually declined.
Therefore, in the Qin Dynasty, when the sons of wealthy families came of age, they separated the family, and when the sons of poor families came of age, they went to the bride's family to get married.
Lending farm tools to his father showed an expression of favor; his mother was immediately scolded for using a dustpan and broom.
The daughter-in-law holds the child in her arms, feeds the baby, and sits with her father-in-law with her legs stretched out. When the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law are unhappy, they talk back and quarrel: they dote on their son and are greedy for profit, and there is not much difference between them and animals.
However, Lord Shang followed the current situation and made progress with all his heart. It can also be said that he wanted to defeat the six countries and unify the world.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
功成求得矣，终不知反廉愧之节，仁义之厚。
信并兼之法，遂进取之业，天下大败；众掩寡，智欺愚，勇威怯，壮陵衰，其乱至矣。
是以大贤起之，威震海内，德从天下。
曩之为秦者，今转而为汉矣。
然其遗风余俗，犹尚未改。
今世以侈靡相竞，而上亡制度，弃礼谊，捐廉耻，日甚，可谓月异而岁不同矣。
逐利不耳，虑非顾行也，今其甚者杀父兄矣。
盗者剟寝户之帘，搴两庙之器，白昼大都之中剽吏而夺之金。
矫伪者出几十万石粟，赋六百余万钱，乘传而行郡国，此其亡行义之尤至者也。
而大臣特以簿书不报，期会之间，以为大故。
至于俗流失，世坏败，因恬而不知怪，虑不动于耳目，以为是适然耳。
夫移风易俗，使天下回心而乡道，类非俗吏之所能为也。
俗吏之所务，在于刀笔筐箧，而不知大体。
陛下又不自忧，窃为陛下惜之。
夫立君臣，等上下，使父子有礼，六亲有纪，此非天之所为，人之所设也。
夫人之所设，不为不立，不植则僵，不修则坏。
《管子》曰： 礼义廉耻，是谓四维；四维不张，国乃灭亡。
使管子愚人也则可，管子而少知治体，则是岂可不为寒心哉！
秦灭四维而不张，故君臣乖乱，六亲殃戮，奸人并起，万民离叛，凡十三岁，而社稷为虚。
今四维犹未备也，故奸人几幸，而众心疑惑。
岂如今定经制，令君君臣臣，上下有差，父子六亲各得其宜，奸人亡所几幸，而群臣众信，上不疑惑！
translation: 
Success and fame are enough, but in the end you don't know that you violate the moral integrity of shame and shame, and violate the virtue of benevolence and righteousness.
The method of annexation achieved progress but ruined the world. The powerful ones overwhelm the weak ones, the smart ones bully the stupid ones, the brave ones intimidate the timid ones, and the strong bully the weak ones. It is really chaos to the extreme.
Therefore, the great sage Liu Bang, the great ancestor of the Han Dynasty, came out to support the world's crisis. His reputation shook the world, and his kindness spread all over the world.
In the past, the world was ruled by the Qin Dynasty, but now it was ruled by the Han Dynasty.
But the customs and habits left over from the Qin Dynasty have not changed yet.
In today's society, people are competing for luxury and luxury, but there is no established system. This trend of abandoning etiquette and integrity is getting worse day by day. It can be said that it is different every year and every month.
He only focused on pursuing fame and wealth, regardless of the quality of his behavior. Today, it has seriously developed to the point of killing his own father and brothers.
The thieves cut off the door curtain of the back room of the emperor's ancestral temple, picked up the sacrificial vessels from the temples of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, and robbed officials of their money in the capital city during the day.
The forger defrauded nearly 100,000 dan of grain, collected more than 6 million yuan in money, and traveled around the country in an official car. This is really unethical to the extreme.
The ministers only regarded the failure to submit official documents and the interruption of scheduled meetings as major events.
As for the corruption of social customs, they treat it calmly and do not think it is strange. They are indifferent and regard it as a matter of course.
Changing customs and bringing people's hearts back to the right path are not something mediocre officials can do.
All mediocre officials can do is write official documents and collect money, but they do not understand the fundamentals of running a country.
Your Majesty, you are not worried about this. I feel sorry for Your Majesty privately.
Establishing the hierarchical relationship between the monarch and his ministers, so that there are etiquette to be followed between father and son, and laws to be followed between the six relatives, this is not done by God, but established by people.
People set up systems and don't set up things that they don't do. If you don't establish a system, you can't maintain interpersonal relationships. If you don't maintain the system, you will destroy interpersonal relationships.
"Guanzi" said: Propriety, justice, integrity and shame are the four principles of governing a country. If these four principles are not maintained, the country will perish.
It would be fine if Guanzi was a stupid person. If Guanzi knew a little bit about the basic principles of governing a country, how could he not be heartbroken by this?
The Qin Dynasty abandoned the four principles without upholding them, so the hierarchical relationship between the monarch and his ministers was disordered, six relatives were killed, treacherous people rose up together, and all the people rebelled against the court. For a total of thirteen years, the whole country was in ruins.
Nowadays, the four major principles are not yet complete, so traitors have opportunities to take advantage of them, and people's minds are uncertain.
How about determining the principle of hierarchy now, so that the king is the king and his ministers are ministers, there are differences between the superiors and the subordinates, father and son and the six relatives have their own place, there is no opportunity for traitors to take advantage of, and all the ministers are loyal and trustworthy, and the emperor has no doubts!


Chunk 10: 
original: 
此业壹定，世世常安，而后有所持循矣。
若夫经制不定，是犹度江河亡维楫，中流而遇风波，船必覆矣。
可为长叹息者此也。
夏为天子，十有余世，而殷受之。
殷为天子，二十余世，而周受之。
周为天子，三十余世，而秦受之。
秦为天子，二世而亡。
人性不甚相远也，何三代之君有道之长，而秦无道之暴也？
其故可知也。
古之王者，太子乃生，固举以礼，使士负之，有司齐肃端冕，见之南郊，见于天也。
过阙则下，过庙则趋，孝子之道也。
故自为赤子而教固已行矣。
昔者成王幼在襁抱之中，召公为太保，周公为太傅，太公为太师。
保，保其身体；傅，傅之德义；师，道之教训：此三公之职也。
于是为置三少，皆上大夫也，曰少保、少傅、少师，是与太子宴者也。
故乃孩提有识，三公、三少固明孝仁礼义以道习之，逐去邪人，不使见恶行。
于是皆选天下之端士孝悌博闻有道术者以卫翼之，使与太子居处出入。
故太子乃生而见正事，闻正言，行正道，左右前后皆正人也。
夫习与正人居之，不能毋正，犹生长于齐不能不齐言也；习与不正人居之，不能毋不正，犹生长于楚之地不能不楚言也。
故择其所耆，必先受业，乃得尝之；择其所乐，必先有习，乃得为之。
孔子曰： 少成若天性，习惯如自然。
及太子少长，知妃色，则入于学。
学者，所学之官也。
《学礼》曰： 帝入东学，上亲而贵仁，则亲疏有序而恩相及矣；帝入南学，上齿而贵信，则长幼有差而民不诬矣；帝入西学，上贤而贵德，则圣智在位而功不遗矣；帝入北学，上贵而尊爵，则贵贱有等而下不逾矣；帝入太学，承师问道，退习而考于太傅，太傅罚其不则而匡其不及，则德智长而治道得矣。
translation: 
Once such a law is established, generations will have peace and future generations will have laws to follow.
If the principle of the hierarchy is not determined, it is like crossing a river without cables and oars. If there is a storm in the middle of the river, the boat will capsize.
I think this is the kind of thing we should sigh about.
The Xia Dynasty ruled the world for more than ten generations, and the Yin and Shang Dynasties succeeded it.
The Yin and Shang Dynasties ruled the world for more than twenty generations, and the Zhou Dynasty succeeded it.
The Zhou Dynasty ruled the world for more than thirty generations, and the Qin Dynasty succeeded it.
The Qin Dynasty ruled the world and perished in two generations.
Human temperaments are not very different. Why did the monarchy of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties rule for a long time in a clear and clear manner, while the Qin Dynasty was not virtuous, tyrannical and cruel?
The reason for this can be known.
In ancient times, when the prince was born, he would be raised with rites, and the officials would carry him on their backs. The relevant officials would be neat and solemn in body and mind, dress upright, and go to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices to heaven.
When you pass the palace, you get off your horse and walk on foot; when you pass the ancestral temple, you bend down and walk quickly. This is the way of a filial son.
So education already takes place in infancy.
In the past, when King Cheng of Zhou was still in his infancy, Duke Zhao was the Taibao, Duke Zhou was the Tutor, and Grand Duke was the Grand Master to educate him.
Bao, protects his body; Fu, teaches him the principles of morality and behavior; Shi, educates and instructs: creation is the responsibility of the three gods.
So there were three more young masters, all of whom were at the level of a doctor, called Shaobao, Shaofu, and Shaoshi. These were the people who lived with the prince.
Therefore, when the prince first became sensible, the three princes and the third young master would teach him about filial piety, benevolence, etiquette, and righteousness, and guide him to do them, drive away treacherous people, and prevent the prince from seeing bad behavior.
Because of this, people with good behavior, filial piety, broad knowledge, and moral scholarship were selected to protect and assist him. These people were allowed to live in the same place with the prince, going out and going in together.
Therefore, when the prince was born, he saw the right things, heard the right words, practiced the right path, and was surrounded by people of good character on his left and right.
If you get used to getting along with people of good conduct, your conduct will not be improper, just like growing up in the state of Qi and you must speak the dialect of Qi. If you get used to getting along with people of bad conduct, your conduct will not be improper, just like growing up in the state of Chu and you must speak the dialect of Chu.
Therefore, when choosing the emperor's hobby, he must first receive education before he can try it out. To choose the emperor's hobby, he must first get used to it before he can do it.
Confucius said: Habits developed in childhood seem to be natural.
When the prince grew up and became aware of women, he was allowed to study in school.
Xue is the academy under the imperial court.
"Xueli" says: When the emperor studied in the East, he knew how to respect relatives and valued benevolence, so there was an order of kinship and estrangement, and kindness could be applied to him; when the emperor studied in the south, he knew how to respect the elderly and pay attention to trustworthiness, so there was a distinction between the elderly and the young and the people did not deceive each other; when the emperor studied in the west, he knew how to respect the virtuous and pay attention to morality, so the sages and intelligent people were appointed and the meritorious people were not left out; The Northern School knew how to respect those with status and admired the rank and rank, so the distinction between high and low became hierarchical, and the humble people did not transcend their own status; the emperor entered the Taixue, learned the principles of governing the country from his teachers, and came back to practice and accept the assessment of the Taifu. The Taifu punished him for his substandard places and corrected his shortcomings. As a result, his virtue and wisdom increased, and he also learned the methods of governing the country.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
此五学者既成于上，则百姓黎民化辑于下矣。
及太子既冠成人，免于保傅之严，则有记过之史，彻膳之宰，进善之旌，诽谤之木，敢谏之鼓。
瞽史诵诗，工诵箴谏，大夫进谋，士传民语。
习与智长，故切而不愧；化与心成，故中道若性。
三代之礼：春朝朝日，秋暮夕月，所以明有敬也；春秋入学，坐国老，执酱而亲馈之，所以明有孝也；行以鸾和，步中《采齐》，趣中《肆夏》，所以明有度也；其于禽兽，见其生不食其死，闻其声不食其肉，故远庖厨，所以长恩，且明有仁也。
夫三代之所以长久者，以其辅翼太子有此具也。
及秦而不然。
其俗固非贵辞让也，所上者告讦也；固非贵礼义也，所上者刑罚也。
使赵高傅胡亥而教之狱，所习者非斩劓人，则夷人之三族也。
故胡亥今日即位而明日射人，忠谏者谓之诽谤，深计者谓之妖言，其视杀人若艾草菅然。
岂惟胡亥之性恶哉？
彼其所以道之者非其理故也。鄙谚曰： 不习为吏，视已成事。
又曰： 前车覆，后车诚。
夫三代之所以长久者，其已事可知也；然而不能从者，是不法圣智也。
秦世之所以亟绝者，其辙迹可见也；然而不避，是后车又将覆也。
夫存亡之变，治乱之机，其要在是矣。
天下之命，县于太子；太子之善，在于早谕教与选左右。
夫心未滥而先谕教，则化易成也；开于道术智谊之指，则教之力也。
若其服习积贯，则左右而已。
夫胡、粤之人，生而同声，耆欲不异，及其长而成俗，累数译而不能相通，行者有虽死而不相为者，则教习然也。
translation: 
If these five studies are learned above, officials and common people will be inspired to live in harmony below.
When the crown prince came of age and was exempted from the control of the Taibao and Taifu, there were officials who recorded faults, officials who admonished people by reducing their meals, erected flags to attract people to say good things, put up wooden signs by the roadside to record faults, and set up drums to be beaten at the gates of the government offices.
Gushi used poems to persuade, musicians recited admonitions to persuade, officials offered strategies, and scholars recited folk warnings.
Wisdom and learning grow together, so things can be done according to the rules; education and thoughts are formed together, so actions can be justified as if they come from nature.
The rituals of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties: worship the sun in the morning of spring and the moon in the evening of autumn to show respect for heaven and earth; when entering school in spring and autumn, invite the elders to sit down, and the prince will personally give them to him with meat sauce to show respect for the elders; when traveling by car, the speed should be suitable for the ringing of the car's bell, and when walking , the slow step should be in line with the rhythm of "Cai Qi", and the fast step should be in line with the rhythm of "Four Summers" to show that you understand etiquette; for animals, if you have seen it when it was alive and heard its cry, you will not eat its meat after it is dead, so you should cook far away to deepen your kindness and show your benevolence.
The reason why the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties ruled for a long time was because they had these methods to assist the prince.
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty.
Their social ethos is not about humility, what they advocate is exposing others' secrets; they are not about etiquette and justice, what they advocate is punishment.
He sent Cao Gao to assist Qin II and taught him the method of killing. What he practiced was either killing people and cutting off their noses, or cutting off the three clans.
Therefore, Qin II ascends to the throne of emperor today and kills people tomorrow. He treats loyal and admonishing words as slander, far-reaching strategies as evil words, and kills people as mowing grass.
Is it just that Qin II had a bad nature?
That's because what he was taught was unreasonable. As the saying goes: If you are not familiar with being an official, look at what officials have done before.
He also said: The car in front has overturned, and the car behind is on guard.
The reason why the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties ruled for a long time can be understood by looking at the past; however, what cannot be obeyed is not imitating the wisdom of the sages.
The reason why the Qin Dynasty perished so quickly can be seen from the traces left behind; however, if it is not avoided, the car behind it will overturn again.
The key to the change of existence and death, the key to governance and chaos, is the essence of creation.
The fate of the world depends on the prince; the prince's ability to govern the country depends on early enlightenment and education, as well as the selection of the right people to assist and protect the prince.
If you start education before your mind is open, then education will be more likely to succeed; understanding the essence of governing the country and knowledge and morality is the power of education.
As for the formation of habits, it is a task left to you.
Northerners and southerners have the same voices when they are born, and there is no difference in their hobbies and desires. When they grow up and develop habits, their languages ​​​​cannot be communicated even after many translations, and their behavioral habits cannot change each other until they die. This is the result of education and habits.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣故曰选左右早谕教最急。
夫教得而左右正，则太子正矣，太子正而天下定矣。
《曰书》： 一人有庆，兆民赖之。
此时务也。
凡人之智，能见已然，不能见将然。
夫礼者禁于将然之前，而法者禁于已然之后，是故法之所用易见，而礼之所为生难知也。
若夫庆赏以劝善，刑罚以惩恶，先王执此之政，坚如金石，行此之令，信如四时，据此之公，无私如天地耳，岂顾不用哉？
然而曰礼云礼云者，贵绝恶于未萌，而起教于微眇，使民日迁善远罪而不自知也。
孔子曰： 听讼，吾犹人也，必也使毋讼乎！
为人主计者，莫如先审取舍；取舍之极定于内，而安危之萌应于外矣。
安首非一日而安也，危者非一日而危也，皆以积渐然，不可不察也。
人主之所积，在其取舍。
以礼义治之者，积礼义；以刑罚治之者，积刑罚。
刑罚积而民怨背，礼义积而民和亲。
故世主欲民之善同，而所以使民善者或异。
或道之以德教，或驱之以法令。
道之以德教者，德教洽而民气乐；驱之以法令者，法令极而民风哀。
哀乐之感，祸福之应也。
秦王之欲尊宗庙而安子孙，与汤、武同，然而汤、武广大其德行，六七百岁而弗失，秦王治天下，十余岁则大败。
此亡它故矣，汤、武之定取舍审而秦五之定取舍不审矣。
夫天下，大器也。
今人之置器，置诸安处则安，置诸危处则危。
天下之情与器亡以异，在天子之所置之。
汤、武置天下于仁义礼乐，而德泽洽，禽兽草木广裕，德被蛮貊四夷，累子孙数十世，此天下所共闻也。
秦王置天下于法令刑罚，德泽亡一有，而怨毒盈于世，下憎恶之如仇雠，祸几及身，子孙诛绝，此天下之所共见也。
translation: 
So I say that choosing good assistants and early education are the most important.
If the education is proper and the people around him are of good character, then the prince will be upright. If the prince is upright, the world will be stable.
"Shangshu" said: The emperor is fortunate to be alone, and hundreds of millions of people rely on him for benefits.
This is something that is urgently needed right now.
With the wisdom of ordinary people, what can be seen is already like this, and what cannot be seen also wants to be like this.
Ritual is used to prohibit people's behavior before it happens, while law is used after the behavior has already happened. Therefore, the function of law is easy to see, but the effect of ritual is difficult to know.
If rewards are used to encourage good deeds and punishments are used to punish evil deeds, then if the government is controlled by pioneers, it will be as hard as gold and stone, and if such orders are implemented, they will be trusted for a long time. Those who master this method are as selfless as heaven and earth, why don't they still use it?
However, when it comes to etiquette, the most important thing is to prevent bad things from happening before they happen, and education is placed in subtle places, so that people can get closer to goodness and stay away from evil every day without knowing it.
Confucius said: When trying lawsuits, I, like others, must make sure that the lawsuits are eliminated!
Those who plan for the king should first determine what to choose and discard; the standard of choice is determined by the court, and the safety and danger begins to be fulfilled in society.
Peace does not come in one day, and danger does not arise in one day. It only occurs gradually after accumulation, so we must carefully examine it.
What the king saves is in terms of choices.
Those who govern the country with rituals and righteousness accumulate propriety and righteousness; those who govern the country with punishments accumulate punishments.
If there are many punishments, the people will complain and resist; if there are many rituals and righteousness, the people will live in harmony.
Therefore, the king wants the people to do good in the same way, but the methods of getting the people to do good are different.
Some taught them virtue, while others forced them with laws.
If you use virtue to teach them, virtue will be promoted and the people will be harmonious and happy; if you use laws to intimidate them, the laws will reach the extreme and the people will be sad.
Feelings of sorrow and joy are evidence of misfortunes and blessings.
The King of Qin wanted to respect the ancestral temple and stabilize his descendants, which was the same as King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou. However, King Tang and King Wu of Shang expanded their virtues and did not fail for six to seven hundred years. King Qin governed the world and was defeated in more than ten years.
There is no other reason for this. King Tang and King Wu of Zhou must be prudent in their choices, while King Qin must be imprudent in their choices.
The world is an important tool.
Nowadays, if people put utensils in a safe place, they will be safe, and if they put them in a dangerous place, they will be dangerous.
The situation of the world is no different from the utensils, it all depends on how the emperor places them.
King Wu of Shang, Tang, and Zhou put the world in the position of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, and happiness, and his kindness was spread far and wide, with animals and plants growing luxuriantly. His kindness was extended to barbarians and barbarians, and his descendants continued for dozens of generations. This is known to everyone in the world.
The King of Qin put the world in the place of laws and punishments, and had no kindness at all. Instead, resentment and hatred spread throughout the society. The common people hated him as an enemy, and disaster almost came to him. Later, his descendants executed him and cut him off. This was seen by everyone in the world.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
是非其明效大验邪！
人之言曰： 听言之道，必以其事观之，则言者莫敢妄言。
今或言礼谊之不如法令，教化之不如刑罚，人主胡不引殷、周、秦事以观之也？
人主之尊譬如堂，群臣如陛，众庶如地。
故陛九级上，廉远地，则堂高；陛亡级，廉近地，则堂卑。
高者难攀，卑者易陵，理势然也。
故古者圣王制为等列，内有公卿、大夫、士，外有公、侯、伯、子、男，然后有官师小吏，延及庶人，等级分明，而天子加焉，故其尊不可及也。
里谚曰： 欲投鼠而忌器。
此善谕也。
鼠近于器，尚惮不投，恐伤其器，况于贵臣之近主乎！
廉耻节礼以治君子，故有赐死而亡戮辱。
是以黥、劓之罪不及大夫，以其离主上不远也。
礼不敢齿君之路马，蹴其刍者有罚；见君之几杖则起，遭君之乘车则下，入正门则趋；君之宠臣虽或有过，刑戮之罪不加其身者，尊君之故也。
此所以为主上豫远不敬也，所以体貌大臣而厉其节也。
今自王侯三公之贵，皆天子之所改容而礼之也，古天子之所谓伯父、伯舅也，而令与众庶同黥、劓、髡、刖、笞傌、弃市之法，然则堂不亡陛乎？被戮辱者不泰迫乎？
廉耻不行，大臣无乃握重权，大官而有徒隶亡耻之心乎？
夫望夷之事，二世见当以重法者，投鼠而不忌器之习也。
臣闻之，履虽鲜不加于枕，冠虽敝不以苴履。
夫尝已在贵宠之位，天子改容而体貌之矣，吏民尝俯伏以敬畏之矣，今而有过，帝令废之可也，退之可也，赐之死可也，灭之可也；若夫束缚之，系緤之，输之司寇，编之徒官，司寇小吏詈骂而榜笞之，殆非所以令众庶见也。
translation: 
Isn’t this an obvious effect?
Some people say: When you listen to someone talk, you must watch his actions, so that he will not dare to talk nonsense.
Today some people say that etiquette and justice are not as good as laws, and education is not as good as punishment. Why don’t the kings quote the events of the Shang, Zhou, and Qin dynasties to show them?
The nobility of the king is like the palace, the ministers are like the steps, and the people are like the ground.
Therefore, if the steps are nine or more and the foundation is far from the ground, the hall will be high; if the steps have no steps and are close to the ground, the hall will be low.
It is a matter of course that the high ones are difficult to climb and the low ones are easy to step on.
Therefore, the ancient sage kings established hierarchies. The imperial court had dukes, ministers, officials, and scholars. The local feudal states had dukes, marquises, uncles, sons, and men. Then there were officials, big and small, all the way down to the common people. The hierarchy was clear, and the status of the emperor was at the top, so his dignity was supreme.
A popular proverb in the alley says: You want to throw something to kill mice but you are worried about damaging the utensils.
This is a good metaphor.
Because the rats were close to the utensils, people were afraid of damaging the utensils and did not dare to hit them. What's more, the noble ministers were too close to the Lord!
A gentleman is governed with integrity and propriety, so he is given death but not killed or insulted.
Therefore, the crime of tattooing on the face and cutting off the nose is not placed on the doctors, because they are not far from the Lord.
Etiquette stipulates that the age of the horse that pulls the monarch's carriage cannot be counted, and kicking the horse's fodder will be punished; when you see the monarch's desk and crutches, you stand upright; when you encounter the monarch's carriage and horses, you go to a lower place; when you enter the main gate, you walk quickly; even if someone among the monarch's favorites is at fault, the crime of killing is not imposed on him. This is to respect the monarch.
This is to enable the emperor to avoid things that are disrespectful to him in advance, and to use politeness to encourage ministers to maintain moral integrity.
Today, starting from nobles such as princes and princes, they are all people whom the emperor must respect and treat with courtesy. They are the people whom the emperor in ancient times called uncles and uncles. If various punishments are applied to them and the people, then doesn’t the palace lose its steps? Aren’t those who were killed and insulted too close to the emperor?
If integrity is not enforced, won’t ministers have excessive power, and high officials have the shamelessness of prisoners?
In the case of Wangyi Palace, Qin II was sentenced to severe punishment. This was caused by surrendering to rats but not using weapons.
I have heard that shoes, even if they are new, cannot be placed on pillows, and hats, even if they are worn, cannot be used to cushion shoes.
A person who was once in a respected and favored position was treated with courtesy by the emperor, and officials and the people once showed respect to him. If he made a mistake today, the emperor could order him to be deposed from his title, removed from his official position, granted death, or destroyed his family. As for tying him up, escorting him to the Sikou, and putting him under the jurisdiction of the apprentice, and letting the Sikou officials curse and whip him, this probably cannot be seen by the general public!


Chunk 14: 
original: 
夫卑贱者习知尊贵者之一旦吾亦乃可以加此也，非所以习天下也，非尊尊贵贵之化也。
夫天子之所尝敬，众庶之所尝庞，死而死耳，贱人安宜得如此而顿辱之哉！
豫让事中行之君，智伯伐而灭之，移事智伯。
及赵灭智伯，豫让衅面吞炭，必报襄子，五起而不中。
人问豫子，豫子曰： 中行众人畜我，我故众人事之；智伯国士遇我，我故国士报之。
故此一豫让也，反君事仇，行若狗彘，已而抗节致忠，行出乎列士，人主使然也。
故主上遇其大臣如遇犬马，彼将犬马自为也；如遇官徒，彼将官徒自为也。
顽顿亡耻，奊诟亡节，廉耻不立，且不自好，苟若而可，故见利则逝，见便则夺。
主上有败，则因而挻之矣；主上有患，则吾苟免而已，立而观之耳；有便吾身者，则欺卖而利之耳。
人主将何便于此？
群下至众，而主上至少也，所托财器职业者粹于群下也。
俱亡耻，俱苟妄，则主上最病。
故古者礼不及庶人，刑不至大夫，所以厉宠臣之节也。
古者大臣有坐不廉而废者，不谓不廉，曰 簠簋不饰 ；坐污秽淫乱男女亡别者，不曰污秽，曰 帷薄不修 ；坐罢软不胜任者，不谓罢软，曰 下官不职 。
故贵大臣定有其罪矣，犹未斥然正以呼之也，尚迁就而为之讳也。
故其在大谴大何之域者，闻谴何则白冠氂缨，盘水加剑，造请室而请罪耳，上不执缚系引而行也。
其有中罪者，闻命而自弛，上不使人颈盭而加也。
其有大罪者，闻命则北面再拜，跪而自裁，上不使捽抑而刑之也，曰： 子大夫自有过耳！
吾遇子有礼矣。
遇之有礼，故群臣自憙；婴以廉耻，故人矜节行。
上设廉耻礼义以遇其臣，而臣不以节行报其上者，则非人类也。
故化成俗定，则为人臣者主耳忘身，国耳忘家，公耳忘私，利不苟就，害不苟去，唯义所在。
上之化也，故父兄之臣诚死宗庙，法度之臣诚死社稷，辅翼之臣诚死君上，守圄扞敌之臣诚死城郭封疆。
故曰圣人有金诚者，比物此志也。
彼且为我死，故吾得与之俱生；彼且为我亡，故吾得与之俱存；夫将为我危，故吾得与之皆安。
顾行而忘利，守节而仗义，故可以托不御之权，可以寄六尺之孤。
此厉廉耻行礼谊之所致也，主上何丧焉！
此之不为，而顾彼之久行，故曰可为长叹息者此也。
translation: 
Lowly people know that once a favored person makes a mistake, I can treat him in the same way. Dismissal is not the way to teach the world, and it is not in line with the teachings of nobles and nobles.
The emperor once respected him, and the people once respected him. Let him die and he will die. How can lowly people torture and insult him like this!
Yurang served the Zhongxing clan. After Zhibo attacked and destroyed the Zhongxing clan, he turned to serve Zhibo.
When Zhao Xiangzi killed Zhibo, Yurang's appearance was disfigured and his voice became hoarse after swallowing charcoal. He must avenge Zhao Xiangzi and avenge Zhibo, but failed many times.
Someone asked Yuzi, and Yuzi replied: Zhongxing treats me like an ordinary person, and I serve him like an ordinary person; Zhibo treats me like a state official, and I repay him like a state official.
So the same Yuran, who at first rebelled against his master and served his enemies, behaving like a pig or a dog, later became loyal and loyal, behaving like a martyr, is what the Lord has made him to be like.
Therefore, the king treats his ministers like dogs and horses, and they are willing to be dogs and horses. If you treat them like prisoners, they will be willing to be prisoners.
They are stubborn, stupid and shameless, have no ambitions, no integrity, no sense of shame, and no self-love. They are just careless, so they yearn for convenience when they see it, and fight for it when they see it.
When the master fails, he takes the opportunity to usurp power; when the master is in trouble, he just cares about his own survival and stands aside; when it is beneficial to himself, he deceives and betrays his master to make profits.
What good does this do to the Lord?
There are many ministers, but there is only one lord. The wealth, occupation, and other powers entrusted by the lord are all concentrated in the hands of the ministers.
They are all shameless and act recklessly, and the Lord is most worried.
Therefore, the ancients said: The etiquette is not as good as the common people, and the punishment is not as good as the officials. This is to encourage the favored ministers to observe the rules.
In ancient times, if a minister was to be deposed for the crime of being dishonest, he would not be said to be dishonest, but to say that the basket and gui were untidy; because of promiscuity and filth, men and women were the same, but not to be said to be dirty, but to be said to be "thin and unrepaired"; to those who were incompetent and incompetent, not to be said to be weak and incompetent, but to be said to be "incompetent".
Therefore, when a high-status minister was convicted, not only did he not openly declare his crime in a reprimanding tone, but he also kept it a secret for him in an accommodating manner.
Therefore, those who are in a position where they should be loudly condemned and scolded, when they hear the condemnation and scolding, they put on mourning clothes, put on a plate of water and a sword, and go to the apologia room to apologize. The emperor does not ask anyone to tie them up and lead them away.
A person who committed a moderate crime would be disfigured and confessed after hearing the order. The emperor would not let anyone put a knife to his neck.
When a person who commits a serious crime hears the order and kneels down to the north to confess his sins and commit suicide, the emperor will not send someone to grab his hair and press him down to execute him, saying: "Your doctor is guilty yourself!"
I treat you politely.
Treat him politely, so the officials will love themselves; treat others with integrity, so people will pay attention to moral integrity and virtue.
The emperor treats his ministers with integrity and etiquette, but if the minister does not repay his master with integrity and virtue, then he is not a human being.
Therefore, if education is established and customs are established, ministers will forget themselves when thinking about the Lord, forget about their families when thinking about the country, forget about private matters when thinking about public affairs, will not seek benefits casually, will avoid harm when seeing harm, and will only act in accordance with morality.
The emperor carries out enlightenment, so ministers of father and brother die loyal to their ancestors, ministers who formulate and implement laws die loyal to the country, ministers who assist and protect the monarch die loyal to the monarch, and ministers who guard the borders to defend against enemies die loyal to the borders of the city.
Therefore, when we say that the saint owns the golden city, we use the golden city to describe the will of the ministers.
He died for me, so I must live and die with him; he died for me, so I must live and die with him; he will risk danger for me, so I must be at peace with him.
He cared about virtue and neglected interests, kept integrity and upheld justice, so he could be entrusted with unfettered power and could foster an emperor who was underage and whose father was dead.
This is what should be achieved by encouraging integrity and promoting etiquette and righteousness. Why does the Lord need to lose these!
If you don’t do these things, you will instead take care of things you shouldn’t do for a long time, so I say these are the things you can sigh for.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
是时，丞相绛侯周勃免就国，人有告勃谋反，逮系长安狱治，卒亡事，复爵邑，故贾谊以此讥上。上深纳其言，养臣下有节。
是后大臣有罪，皆自杀，不受刑。
至武帝时，稍复入狱，自甯成始。
初，文帝以代王入即位，后分代为两国，立皇子武为代王，参为太原王，小子胜则梁王矣。
后又徙代王武为淮阳王，而太愿王参为代王，尽得故地。
居数年，梁王胜死，亡子。
谊复上疏曰：
陛下即不定制，如今之势，不过一传再传，诸侯犹且人恣而不制，豪植而大强，汉法不得行矣。
陛下所以为蕃扞及皇太子之所恃者，唯唯阳、代二国耳。
代北边匈奴，与强敌为邻，能自完则足矣。
而淮阳之比大诸侯，廑如黑子之著面，适足以饵大国耳，不足以有所禁御。
方今制在陛下，制国而令子适足以为饵，岂可谓工哉！
人主之行异布衣。
布衣者，饰小行，竞小廉，以自托于乡党，人主唯天下安社稷固不耳。
高皇帝瓜分天下以王功臣，反者如蝟毛而起，以为不可，故蔪去不义诸侯而虚其国。
择良日，立诸子雒阳上东门之外，毕以为王，而天下安。
故大人者，不牵小行，以成大功。
今淮南地远者或数千里，越两诸侯，而县属于汉。
其吏民徭役往来长安者，自悉而补，中道衣敝，钱用诸费称此，其苦属汉而欲得王至甚，逋逃而归诸侯者已不少矣。
其势不可久。
臣之愚计，愿举淮南地以益淮阳，而为梁王立后，割淮阳北边二三列城与东郡以益梁；不可者，可徙代王而都睢阳。
梁起于新郪以北著之河，淮阳包陈以南揵之江，则大诸侯之有异心者，破胆而不敢谋。
梁足以扞齐、赵，淮阳足以禁吴、楚，陛下高枕，终亡山东之忧矣，此二世之利也。
当今恬然，适遇诸侯之皆少，数岁之后，陛下且见之矣。
translation: 
At this time, the Prime Minister Jianghou Zhou Bo was dismissed from his post and returned to the feudal state. Someone reported Zhou Bo for treason, and Zhou Bo was tied up and escorted to Chang'an to be imprisoned and sentenced. As a result, he did not rebel and his title was restored. Therefore, Jia Yi used Zhou Bo's incident to persuade Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty to be cautious in punishing ministers.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty deeply accepted his opinions and treated his ministers appropriately. After that, all the ministers who committed crimes committed suicide, and none were sentenced to death.
By the time of Emperor Mowu, starting from Ningcheng, ministers gradually committed crimes and were imprisoned.
At first, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty assumed the throne of emperor as the acting king. Later, the Kingdom of Dai was divided into two countries, and the prince Liu Wu was made the King of Dai, Liu Shen was the King of Taiyuan, and the youngest son Liu Sheng was the King of Liang.
Later, Liu Wu, the king of Dai, was transferred to be the king of Huaiyang, and Liu Shen, the king of Taiyuan, was appointed the king of Dai, and received all the fiefdoms of the original king.
A few years later, Liang Wang Liu Sheng died without a son.
Jia Yi went to Shu again and said:
If Your Majesty had not established a system, the current situation would have been just one or two years ago. The princes and kingdoms were not yet under control. As their forces were established and gradually became stronger, the laws of the Han Dynasty would not be implemented.
The only two countries your Majesty relies on to protect yourself and the Crown Prince are Huaiyang and Dai.
The north of Dai State is close to the Xiongnu, and it is adjacent to powerful enemies. It is enough to be able to protect itself.
Compared with the big princes, Huaiyang is just like a small black mole on the face. It is only suitable to be swallowed up by big countries, but not enough to resist them.
Now the system is formulated by His Majesty. How can it be said that it is calculated by organizing vassal states so that one's own sons can be used as bait for a big country?
The Lord behaves differently from ordinary people.
Common people pay attention to small virtues and pay attention to small integrity, and entrust them to the countryside. The Lord focuses on unifying the world and stabilizing society.
The Emperor Gao divided the world among his ministers and made them princes and kings. Those who opposed him rose up like hedgehogs and thought it was not possible, so they eliminated the unjust princes and left their country empty.
Choosing a good time and auspicious day, he established several of his sons outside Luoyang Shangshumen, and all of them became princes and kings. In this way, the world was stable.
Therefore, those who do great things will not be burdened by small actions and will achieve great achievements in the end.
Now Huainan, a vassal state, spans thousands of miles, surpassing the two vassals of Liang and Huaiyang, and is governed as a county by the Han Dynasty.
The officials and people in Huainan spent all their wealth to replenish their clothes because of the corvee service, but the clothes were torn on the way. Most of the money was spent on this expense. They suffered from being subordinate to the Han and wanted to have a prince king. Many of them escaped and joined the princes.
This situation cannot be allowed to last.
I have a stupid plan, hoping to give the land of Huainan to Huaiyang, and after establishing the Liang King, I will cut off the two or three counties and Shu County in the north of Huaiyang and add them to the Liang Kingdom; if this does not work, I can transfer the capital to Suiyang on behalf of the king.
The land of Liang State starts from Xinguo and goes north to the Yellow River, and Huaiyang takes the land south of Chen State and joins the Yangtze River. In this way, the ambitious vassal states will be too scared to make plans.
Liang is strong enough to defend Qi and Tang, and Huaiyang is strong enough to resist Wu and Chu. Your Majesty can rest easy, without the worries east of Mount Wei. This is the benefit of two generations.
Today, the country is stable, but the princes are still young. In a few years, Your Majesty will see a crisis.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
夫秦日夜苦心劳力以除六国之祸，今陛下力制天下，颐指如意，高拱以成六国之祸，难以言智。
苟身亡事，畜乱宿祸，孰视而不定，万年之后，传之老母弱子，将使不宁，不可谓仁。
臣闻圣主言问其臣而不自造事，故使人臣得毕其愚忠。
唯陛下财幸！
文帝于是从谊计，乃徙淮阳王武为梁王，北界泰山，西至高阳，得大县四十余城；徙城阳王喜为淮南王，抚其民。
时又封淮南厉王四子皆为列侯。
谊知上必将复王之也，上疏谏曰： 窃恐陛下接王淮南诸子，曾不与如臣者孰计之也。
淮南王之悖逆亡道，天下孰不知其罪？
陛下幸而赦迁之，自疾而死，天下孰以王死之不当？
今奉尊罪人之子，适足以负谤于天下耳。
此人少壮，岂能忘其父哉 白公胜所为父报仇者，大父与伯父、叔父也。
白公为乱，非欲取国代主也，发愤快志，剡手以冲仇人之匈，固为俱靡而已。
淮南虽小，黥布尝用之矣，汉存特幸耳。
夫擅仇人足以危汉之资，于策不便。
虽割而为四，四子一心也。
予之众，积之财，此非有子胥、白公报于广都之中，即疑有剸诸、荆轲起于两柱之间，所谓假贼兵为虎翼者也。
愿陛下少留计！
梁王胜坠马死，谊自伤为傅无状，常哭泣，后岁余，亦死。
贾生之死，年三十三矣。
后四岁，齐文王薨，亡子。
文帝思贾生之言，乃分齐为六国，尽立悼惠王子六人为王；又迁淮南王喜于城阳，而分淮南为三国，尽立厉王三子以王之。
后十年，文帝崩，景帝立；三年而吴、楚、赵与四齐王合从举兵，西乡京师，梁王扞之，卒破七国。
至武帝时，淮南厉王子为王者两国亦反诛。
孝武初立，举贾生之孙二人至郡守。
translation: 
Qin Chaoye worked hard to eliminate the disasters of the Six Kingdoms. Now His Majesty controls the world with power. He only uses his cheek expressions to indicate to others, and what he wants to achieve will be achieved. If His Majesty's hands are high and cause the disasters of the Six Kingdoms, it is difficult to say whether he is smart or not.
Gouquan himself did not cause trouble, but kept troubles, and looked carefully without making a decision. Thousands of years later, if he passed it on to the old mother and weak son, they would not be able to live in peace. This cannot be said to be benevolent.
I heard that when the Holy Spirit wanted to speak, he first asked his ministers instead of speaking first. Therefore, the ministers can show their loyalty.
I hope your Majesty will accept my words.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty then adopted Jia Yi's strategy and appointed Liu Wu, King of Huaiyang, as King of Liang. The Liang Kingdom was bounded by Mount Tai in the north and Gaoyang in the west, with more than 40 large counties. He appointed Liu happy, King of Chengyang, as King of Huainan to appease his people.
At that time, the four sons of Liu Chang, King Li of Huainan, were all made marquises.
Jia Yi knew that the emperor must restore the titles of princes and kings, so he admonished him and said: "I am privately worried that your majesty will make several sons of King Li of Huainan king. This has not been carefully discussed with the ministers."
The King of Huainan rebelled and started rebellion. Who in the world didn’t know about his crime?
Fortunately, His Majesty was lenient and banished him. He committed suicide and died. Who in the world thinks that his death was undeserved?
Today's use of the son of a sinner has just lived up to the condemnation of King Li by the people of the world!
When King Li's son grew up, could he forget his father's hatred? Bai Gongsheng avenged his father, targeting his grandfather, uncle, and uncles.
Bai Gongsheng launched a coup, not to seize power, but to vent his resentment. He stabbed his enemy in the chest with a sharp knife, intending to die together with his enemy.
Although Huainan is a small place, Yingbu once used it to rebel against the Han Dynasty. It was really lucky for the Han Dynasty to exist.
It would be unwise to let the enemy possess capital that could endanger the Han Dynasty.
Although King Li's four sons were separated, they had the same idea of ​​avenging their father.
Give them a lot of people and enable them to accumulate a lot of property. If they do not openly raise armies in the capital to avenge like Wu Zixu and Bai Gong, there will be assassinations like Zhuanzhu and Jingke. This is the so-called lending weapons to thieves and giving wings to tigers.
I hope your Majesty will give it some thought!
Liang Wang Liu Sheng fell from his horse and died. Jia Yi lamented that he had failed in his duty as a tutor and often cried. More than a year later, he also died.
Jia Yi was thirty-three years old when he died.
Four years later, King Qi Wen died without a son.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty remembered Jia Yi's words, so he divided Qi into six small kingdoms and made King Hui's six sons king respectively. He also transferred Huainan King Liu happy to Chengyang, divided Huainan into three small countries, and made King Li's six sons king respectively.
In the next ten years, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty died and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Wu, Chu, Zhao and the four Qi kings jointly rebelled and marched westward to the Mojing city of Chang'an. Liang Xiao Wang Liu Wu defended Chang'an and finally defeated the Seven Kingdoms.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the son of King Li of Huainan became king, and some of the two rebelled against him and were executed.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne and appointed Jia Yi's two grandsons as prefects of the county.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
贾嘉最好学，世其家。
赞曰：刘向称 贾谊言三代与秦治乱之意，其论甚美，通达国体，虽古之伊、管未能远过也。
使时见用，功化必盛。
为庸臣所害，甚可悼痛。
追观孝文玄默躬行以移风俗，谊之所陈略施行矣。
及欲改定制度，以汉为土德，色上黄，数用五，及欲试属国，施五饵三表以系单于，其术固以疏矣。
谊亦天年早终，虽不至公卿，未为不遇也。
凡所著述五十八篇，掇其切于世事者著于传云。
translation: 
Among them, Maijia is the most studious and inherits a scholarly family background.
Praise: Liu Xiangcheng Jia Yi talked about the significance of the Xia, Shang, Zhou and Qin dynasties in regulating chaos. His discussion was very beautiful. He was familiar with national regulations and systems. Even Yi Yin and Guan Zhong in ancient times could not surpass him.
If his ideas had been implemented at that time, his achievements and enlightenment would have been significant.
But it is really sad that he was framed by mediocrity.
Looking back, we can see that Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was quiet and inactive, and took action to change customs. The ideas stated by Jia Yi were slightly implemented.
When he wanted to change the system, because the Han Dynasty was a native country, he advocated yellow, and used five as the official seal number. When he wanted to try to own a vassal state, he used Jia Yi's "five baits" and "three watches" to tightly tie the Chanyu, and his method was effective.
Jia Yi died young. Although he did not become a public official, he was not without opportunities.
He wrote a total of fifty-eight articles, and the content relevant to current affairs was extracted and written in his biography.


