Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 3, 3, 0, 16, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
贾谊，雒阳人也，年十八，以能诵诗书属文称于郡中。
河南守吴公闻其秀材，召置门下，甚幸爱。
文帝初立，闻河南守吴公治平为天下第一，故与李斯同邑，而尝学事焉，征以为廷尉。
廷尉乃言谊年少，颇通诸家之书。
文帝召以为博士。
是时，谊年二十余，最为少。
每诏令议下，诸老先生未能言，谊尽为之对，人人各如其意所出。诸生于是以为能。
文帝说之，超迁，岁中至太中大夫。
谊以为汉兴二十余年，天下和洽，宜当改正朔，易服色制度，定官名，兴礼乐。
乃草具其仪法，色上黄，数用五，为官名悉更，奏之。
文帝廉让未皇也。
然诸法令所更定，及列侯就国，其说皆谊发之。
于是天子议以谊任公卿之位。
绛、灌、东阳侯、冯敬之属尽害之，乃毁谊曰： 雒阳之人年少初学，专欲擅权，纷乱诸事。
于是天子后亦疏之，不用其议，以谊为长沙王太傅。
谊既以適去，意不自得，及渡湘水，为赋以吊屈原。
屈原，楚贤臣也，被谗放逐，作《离骚赋》，其终篇曰： 已矣！
国亡人，莫我知也。
遂自投江而死。
谊追伤之，因以自谕。
其辞曰：
恭承嘉惠兮，竢罪长沙。
仄闻屈原兮，自湛汨罗。
造托湘流兮，敬吊先生。
遭世罔极兮，乃陨厥身。
乌呼哀哉兮，逢时不祥！
鸾凤伏窜兮，鸱鸮翱翔。
阘茸尊显兮，谗谀得志；贤圣逆曳兮，方正倒植。谓随、夷混兮，谓跖、蹻廉；莫邪为钝兮，铅刀为銛。
translation: 
Jia Yi, a native of Luoyang, was famous locally for his ability to recite poems and write articles when he was eighteen years old.
When Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, heard that he had excellent talents and studies, he summoned him to his sect and thought highly of him.
Not long after Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he heard that Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, had the best political performance in the country. He was from the same hometown as Li Si and had learned from Li Si, so he recruited him as a court captain.
Tingwei recommended that although Jia Yi was young, he was well versed in the books of various schools of thought.
Emperor Wen of Han called Jia Yi to become a doctor.
At this time, Jia Yi was in his twenties and the youngest among the Ph.D.
Every time Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty ordered the questions to be discussed, the older doctors could not say anything, but Jia Yi could answer them one by one, and everyone felt that they had said what they meant. The doctors then thought that Jia Yi had outstanding talents.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty liked him and promoted him unusually, and within a year he was promoted to Taizhong doctor.
Jia Yi believes that the Han Dynasty has been established for more than 20 years and the country is peaceful and harmonious. The calendar should be revised, the colors of carriages and horses should be changed, the legal system should be formulated, the names of official positions should be determined, and rituals and music should be revitalized.
So he drafted regulations for various ceremonies, using yellow as the color of nobility, using a five-character seal for the official seal, confirming the title of the official position, changing all the old systems, and Jia Yi reported to the emperor.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was cautious and had no time to implement it.
However, the changes in various laws and regulations and the fact that various princes moved to their own feudal states were all proposed by Jia Yi.
So Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty discussed with his ministers and let Jia Yi take the position of public minister.
Jianghou, Guanhou, Dongyanghou, Feng Jing and others were jealous of him and slandered him: "This young man in Luoyang is young and has little knowledge. He wants to monopolize power and causes chaos in many things."
Because of this, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty later alienated him, did not adopt his opinions, and made him the Prince of Changsha.
Jia Yi left because he was demoted, and his will was not exerted. When crossing the Xiang River, he wrote a poem in memory of Qu Yuan.
Qu Yuan was a wise minister of the Chu State. He was slandered and exiled. He wrote "Li Sao Fu" and wrote at the end: Forget it!
There is no one in the country who understands me.
So he threw himself into the river and died.
Jia Yi remembered and mourned him, so he compared himself with Qu Yuan.
His poem reads:
In accordance with the emperor's decree, I went to Changsha to take up my post.
I once listened with humility to others saying that Qu Yuan committed suicide by throwing himself into the Miluo River.
Now I come to the bank of the Xiangjiang River to use the water of the Xiangjiang River to express my grief and condolences to Qu Yuan.
A lot of worldly slanderous words are thrown at you, sir. You can only throw yourself into the river and destroy your body.
How sad! You were born at the wrong time and did not encounter a good era.
The magical bird hides or flies away, but the hawk flies in the sky.
There are people in the world who say that Bian Sui, who was not greedy for the world and drowned to death, and Boyi, who did not eat Zhou millet and starved to death, are greedy. Instead, they say that the great thieves Zhi and Jiao are honest. They argue that the famous sword Mo Xie in ancient times is very sharp and slow, while ordinary lead and iron knives are very sharp. well!
summary:
Jia Yi, a native of Luoyang, was renowned for his literary talents at eighteen. Governor Wu Gong of Henan summoned him after hearing of his abilities. When Emperor Wen of Han ascended the throne, he appointed Wu Gong as a court captain due to his excellent governance and connection to Li Si. Wu Gong recommended Jia Yi, who was then made a doctor at around twenty years old, the youngest among them. Jia Yi excelled in court discussions, impressing the emperor, who promoted him to Taizhong doctor within a year. Jia Yi proposed reforming the calendar, legal system, and rituals, drafting regulations with yellow as the noble color and a five-character seal. Emperor Wen hesitated to implement these changes, but many legal reforms and the relocation of princes were Jia Yi's ideas. Jealous officials slandered Jia Yi, leading to his demotion as Tutor to the Prince of Changsha. On his journey, he wrote a poem mourning Qu Yuan, comparing their fates. The poem lamented Qu Yuan's unjust exile and suicide, criticizing a world that values the worthless over the worthy. Jia Yi advised retreat and self-preservation, using metaphors of dragons and phoenixes to urge distancing from corruption. He argued that Qu Yuan should have sought a wise ruler rather than cling to Chu. Jia Yi emphasized the importance of ritual over punishment, arguing that ritual prevents wrongdoing subtly, while punishment only reacts. He urged the emperor to respect ministers, using historical examples to show that honor fosters loyalty. He advised against humiliating officials, as it erodes their integrity. He used the case of Zhou Bo, falsely accused of treason, to argue for leniency. Emperor Wen heeded this, and thereafter, guilty ministers committed suicide rather than face execution.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
于嗟默默，生之亡故兮！
斡弃周鼎，宝康瓠兮。
腾驾罢牛，骖蹇驴兮；骥垂两耳，服盐车兮。
章父荐屦，渐不可久兮；嗟苦先生，独离此咎兮！
谇曰：已矣！国其莫吾知兮，子独壹郁其谁语？
凤缥缥其高逝兮，夫固自引而远去。
袭九渊之神龙兮，沕渊潜以自珍；偭蟂獭以隐处兮，夫岂从虾与蛭螾？
所贵圣之神德兮，远浊世而自臧。
使骐骥可系而羁兮，岂云异夫犬羊？
般纷纷其离此邮兮，亦夫子之故也！
历九州而相其君兮，何必怀此都也？
凤皇翔于千仞兮，览德煇而下之；见细德之险征兮，遥增击而去之。
彼寻常之污渎佤，岂容吞舟之鱼！
横江湖之鳣鲸兮，固将制于蝼蚁。
谊为长沙傅三年，有服飞入谊舍，止于坐隅。
服似鸮，不祥鸟也。
谊既以適居长沙，长沙卑湿，谊自伤悼，以为寿不得长，乃为赋以自广。
其辞曰：
单阏之岁，四月孟夏，庚子日斜，服集余舍，止于坐隅，貌甚闲暇。
异物来崒，私怪其故，发书占之，谶言其度。
曰 野鸟入室，主人将去。
问于子服： 余去何之？
吉乎告我，凶言其灾。
淹速之度，语余其期。
服乃太息，举首奋翼，口不能言，请对以意。
万物变化，固亡休息。斡流而迁，或推而还。
形气转续，变化而嬗。
translation: 
You are so silent and helpless that you are being persecuted for no reason.
He gave up the Zhou Ding treasure that was passed down to the country, but regarded the broken earthen jar as a treasure.
A tired ox is used to drive the shaft, and a lame donkey is used to pull the cart harness; a horse with drooped ears pulls an overweight salt cart.
With Yin people's hats as shoes, can this chaotic situation last long? Hee! Mr. Qu Yuan, who is suffering! You are the only one who has suffered these disasters. Declare: Come on!
Who in the country can understand you? Sir, if you are sulking alone here, who can you tell your innermost thoughts?
If no one understands it, it should fly high and disappear into the distance like a phoenix bird, retiring on its own.
Imitate the dragon hidden in the abyss, hide yourself deep in the water and cherish yourself. How can the dragon associate with water bugs, fish, shrimps, toads, leeches, earthworms and the like?
To stay away from the filthy realm and cherish it yourself, you must cherish the virtues passed down by the saints!
If a horse can be tethered and controlled by others, how is it any different from a dog or a sheep?
You have encountered all kinds of persecution and misfortunes because you did not keep yourself clean and stay away from this dirty world!
You can travel around the land of China and choose a wise king to assist him. Why do you have to miss Chu State?
A gentleman like a phoenix can fly thousands of miles into the sky, and will only come down when he sees a wise king with glorious virtues. When he sees signs of danger in his shortcomings and despicable virtues, he immediately flaps his wings and flies away.
How could a large fish that could swallow a boat be accommodated in a stagnant puddle with only a dozen feet in length and width?
The big fish swimming back and forth in rivers and lakes will inevitably be attacked by mole crickets and ants once they swim into stagnant puddles.
In Jia Yi's third year as the Tutor of Changsha, an owl flew into Jia Yi's room and stopped next to his seat.
The owl is like a cuckoo and is an unlucky bird.
Jia Yi had been demoted and came to live in Changsha. Changsha was low-lying and humid. Jia Yi was often sad and thought that his life would not be long, so he wrote poems to comfort himself.
Fu wrote:
On the evening of the 23rd day of the first month of summer in the year Dingmao, when the sun was about to set, an owl perched in my living room, staying on the corner of the seat with a very leisurely and unhurried look.
This strange bird perched in my home. When I saw the owl flying into my room, I secretly guessed the reason for its arrival. I opened the divination book and checked the predictions based on the predictions in the book.
The book says: Wild birds fly into the house, and the owner of the house will leave this place.
I asked the owl: Where am I going?
If something auspicious happens, tell me. Even if something bad happens, please tell me what the disaster is.
Is my life span long or short? Please tell me a period.
The owl sighed, then raised its head and flapped its wings vigorously. Although it could not speak human language, it could answer with gestures and guess its mood based on its expression.
It means: Thousands of species in the world cycle and change, and there is no end to them. They rotate, flow, and change. Sometimes they rotate and disappear, and sometimes they move and return.
The transformation of form and energy is continuous and endless, just like the transformation of a cicada.
summary:
In his third year in Changsha, an owl, an unlucky bird, entered Jia Yi's room. He wrote a poem exploring fate and fortune, reflecting on the cyclical nature of life and the futility of human concerns. The poem discusses the interplay of fortune and misfortune, using examples like Li Si and Fu Yue to illustrate unpredictability. It advocates detachment from worldly desires, embracing the Dao, and accepting life's transience. Jia Yi concluded that the owl's omen was trivial.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
后岁余，文帝思谊，征之。
至，入见，上方受厘，坐宣室。
上因感鬼神事，而问鬼神之本。
谊具道所以然之故。
至夜半，文帝前席。
既罢，曰： 吾久不见贾生，自以为过之，今不及也。
乃拜谊为梁怀王太傅。
怀王，上少子，爱，而好书，故令谊傅之，数问以得失。
是时，匈奴强，侵边。
天下初定，制度疏阔。
诸侯王僣拟，地过古制，淮南、济北王皆为逆诛。
谊数上疏陈政事，多所欲匡建，其大略曰：
臣窃惟事势，可为痛哭者一，可为流涕者二，可为长太息者六，若其它背理而伤道者，难遍以疏举。
进言者皆曰天下已安已治矣，臣独以为未也。
曰安且治者，非愚则谀，皆非事实知治乱之体者也。
夫抱火厝之积薪之下而寝其上，火未及燃，因谓之安，方今之势，何以异此！
本末舛逆，首尾衡决，国制抢攘，非甚有纪，胡可谓治！
陛下何不壹令臣得孰数之于前，因陈治安之策，试详择焉！
夫射猎之娱，与安危之机孰急 使为治，劳智虑，苦身体，乏钟鼓之乐，勿为可也。
乐与今同，而加之诸侯轨道，兵革不动，民保首领，匈奴宾服，四荒乡风，百姓素朴，狱讼衰息，大数既得，则天下顺治，海内之气清和咸理，生为明帝，没为明神，名誉之美，垂于无穷《礼》祖有功而宗有德，使顾成之庙称为太宗，上配太祖，与汉亡极。
translation: 
More than a year later, Emperor Wen of Han missed Jia Yi and summoned him back to the capital Chang'an.
Jia Yi arrived and entered the court to ask for an audience. Emperor Wen of Han was receiving the blessings from the gods and sat in the Xuan room to receive Jia Yi.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty had some feelings about ghosts and gods, so he asked Jia Yi about the origin of ghosts and gods.
Jia Yi explained the rationale in detail.
The conversation lasted until late at night, and Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty moved to the front of the table without noticing.
After the discussion, Emperor Wen of Han said: I haven't seen Jia Sheng for a long time. I thought I was better than him, but today it seems that I am still not as good as him.
So Jia Yi was appointed as the Taifu of King Huai of Liang.
King Huai of Liang was the youngest son of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty. He was very favored and liked to read, so he asked Jia Yi to be his teacher. He asked Jia Yi many times for advice on success and failure.
During this period, the Xiongnu became powerful and often invaded the Han Dynasty's borders.
The Han Dynasty had just been established, and the laws and regulations were rough and unclear.
The princes and kings exceeded the scope of their power and occupied more land than the ancient system. The king of Huainan and the king of Jibei were both executed for rebellion.
Jia Yi went to Shu to state political affairs many times. Most of his opinions were to change and establish a new system. The general idea was:
I have privately considered the current national situation and believe that there is one thing that can be cried over, two things that can be shed tears over, and six things that can be sighed over. As for the other things that go against the truth and harm the right path, it is difficult to list them in detail.
Those who advise His Majesty say that the country is already peaceful and well-governed, but I personally think that the country is far from being well-governed.
Those who say that the country is stable and well-governed are either stupid or flattering. They are not people who understand the fundamentals of governing chaos based on facts.
This is like putting fire under a pyre and sleeping on it. If the pyre is not lit, it is safe. How is the current situation in the country different from this situation?
The beginning and end have been reversed, the front and rear embankments have been destroyed, the country's system is in chaos, and it is not very disciplined. How can it be said that it has been governed well?
Your Majesty, why don't you allow me the opportunity to state in detail the strategies for national political improvement and social stability, and let you choose carefully?
Which is more important, the entertainment of hunting, or the key to grasping the security of the country? It is wrong to think that governing a country requires hard work and pain on the body, and lacks the entertainment of bells and drums.
Entertainment was the same as it is now, coupled with the fact that the princes abide by the law, there was no war in the country, the people were stable, the Xiongnu surrendered, people in remote areas submitted to the court, the people were simple and unpretentious, and disputes and lawsuits gradually disappeared. If the general plan of governing the country is mastered, the world will be governed smoothly, the social climate will be peaceful and harmonious, and everything will be reasonable. When you are alive, you will be a wise emperor, and when you die, you will be a god. Your good reputation will be passed down through the ages. "The Rites of Zhou" says that as a founding monarch, you must be meritorious, and as a successor monarch, you must be virtuous, so that your majesty's imperial merits will match those of the great ancestor Liu Bang, and will be immortalized together with the rule of the Han Dynasty.
summary:
Emperor Wen later recalled Jia Yi, discussing ghosts and gods late into the night. Impressed, he appointed Jia Yi as Tutor to his favored son, King Huai of Liang. Jia Yi frequently advised on state affairs, highlighting crises: the Xiongnu threat, rebellious princes, and corrupt customs. He argued that the realm was not truly peaceful, comparing it to sleeping on a pyre. He proposed dividing large fiefdoms to weaken princes, using historical examples to show that power leads to rebellion. He urged the emperor to adopt a system of smaller states to ensure stability, warning that inaction would lead to disaster. Jia Yi criticized the Xiongnu policy of appeasement, calling it humiliating and ineffective. He offered to subdue them through strategy. He also condemned lavish dress among commoners, which drained resources and undermined social hierarchy. He lamented the decline of moral standards, tracing it to Qin's abandonment of propriety. He advocated for early education of the crown prince, citing the long reigns of Xia, Shang, and Zhou, which prioritized ritual and moral instruction, unlike Qin's harsh laws that led to rapid collapse.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
夫秦日夜苦心劳力以除六国之祸，今陛下力制天下，颐指如意，高拱以成六国之祸，难以言智。
苟身亡事，畜乱宿祸，孰视而不定，万年之后，传之老母弱子，将使不宁，不可谓仁。
臣闻圣主言问其臣而不自造事，故使人臣得毕其愚忠。
唯陛下财幸！
文帝于是从谊计，乃徙淮阳王武为梁王，北界泰山，西至高阳，得大县四十余城；徙城阳王喜为淮南王，抚其民。
时又封淮南厉王四子皆为列侯。
谊知上必将复王之也，上疏谏曰： 窃恐陛下接王淮南诸子，曾不与如臣者孰计之也。
淮南王之悖逆亡道，天下孰不知其罪？
陛下幸而赦迁之，自疾而死，天下孰以王死之不当？
今奉尊罪人之子，适足以负谤于天下耳。
此人少壮，岂能忘其父哉 白公胜所为父报仇者，大父与伯父、叔父也。
白公为乱，非欲取国代主也，发愤快志，剡手以冲仇人之匈，固为俱靡而已。
淮南虽小，黥布尝用之矣，汉存特幸耳。
夫擅仇人足以危汉之资，于策不便。
虽割而为四，四子一心也。
予之众，积之财，此非有子胥、白公报于广都之中，即疑有剸诸、荆轲起于两柱之间，所谓假贼兵为虎翼者也。
愿陛下少留计！
梁王胜坠马死，谊自伤为傅无状，常哭泣，后岁余，亦死。
贾生之死，年三十三矣。
后四岁，齐文王薨，亡子。
文帝思贾生之言，乃分齐为六国，尽立悼惠王子六人为王；又迁淮南王喜于城阳，而分淮南为三国，尽立厉王三子以王之。
后十年，文帝崩，景帝立；三年而吴、楚、赵与四齐王合从举兵，西乡京师，梁王扞之，卒破七国。
至武帝时，淮南厉王子为王者两国亦反诛。
孝武初立，举贾生之孙二人至郡守。
translation: 
Qin Chaoye worked hard to eliminate the disasters of the Six Kingdoms. Now His Majesty controls the world with power. He only uses his cheek expressions to indicate to others, and what he wants to achieve will be achieved. If His Majesty's hands are high and cause the disasters of the Six Kingdoms, it is difficult to say whether he is smart or not.
Gouquan himself did not cause trouble, but kept troubles, and looked carefully without making a decision. Thousands of years later, if he passed it on to the old mother and weak son, they would not be able to live in peace. This cannot be said to be benevolent.
I heard that when the Holy Spirit wanted to speak, he first asked his ministers instead of speaking first. Therefore, the ministers can show their loyalty.
I hope your Majesty will accept my words.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty then adopted Jia Yi's strategy and appointed Liu Wu, King of Huaiyang, as King of Liang. The Liang Kingdom was bounded by Mount Tai in the north and Gaoyang in the west, with more than 40 large counties. He appointed Liu happy, King of Chengyang, as King of Huainan to appease his people.
At that time, the four sons of Liu Chang, King Li of Huainan, were all made marquises.
Jia Yi knew that the emperor must restore the titles of princes and kings, so he admonished him and said: "I am privately worried that your majesty will make several sons of King Li of Huainan king. This has not been carefully discussed with the ministers."
The King of Huainan rebelled and started rebellion. Who in the world didn’t know about his crime?
Fortunately, His Majesty was lenient and banished him. He committed suicide and died. Who in the world thinks that his death was undeserved?
Today's use of the son of a sinner has just lived up to the condemnation of King Li by the people of the world!
When King Li's son grew up, could he forget his father's hatred? Bai Gongsheng avenged his father, targeting his grandfather, uncle, and uncles.
Bai Gongsheng launched a coup, not to seize power, but to vent his resentment. He stabbed his enemy in the chest with a sharp knife, intending to die together with his enemy.
Although Huainan is a small place, Yingbu once used it to rebel against the Han Dynasty. It was really lucky for the Han Dynasty to exist.
It would be unwise to let the enemy possess capital that could endanger the Han Dynasty.
Although King Li's four sons were separated, they had the same idea of ​​avenging their father.
Give them a lot of people and enable them to accumulate a lot of property. If they do not openly raise armies in the capital to avenge like Wu Zixu and Bai Gong, there will be assassinations like Zhuanzhu and Jingke. This is the so-called lending weapons to thieves and giving wings to tigers.
I hope your Majesty will give it some thought!
Liang Wang Liu Sheng fell from his horse and died. Jia Yi lamented that he had failed in his duty as a tutor and often cried. More than a year later, he also died.
Jia Yi was thirty-three years old when he died.
Four years later, King Qi Wen died without a son.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty remembered Jia Yi's words, so he divided Qi into six small kingdoms and made King Hui's six sons king respectively. He also transferred Huainan King Liu happy to Chengyang, divided Huainan into three small countries, and made King Li's six sons king respectively.
In the next ten years, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty died and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Wu, Chu, Zhao and the four Qi kings jointly rebelled and marched westward to the Mojing city of Chang'an. Liang Xiao Wang Liu Wu defended Chang'an and finally defeated the Seven Kingdoms.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the son of King Li of Huainan became king, and some of the two rebelled against him and were executed.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne and appointed Jia Yi's two grandsons as prefects of the county.
summary:
Jia Yi later proposed strengthening the kingdoms of Huaiyang and Liang to counter powerful princes like Huainan. He warned against granting titles to the sons of the rebellious King Li of Huainan, predicting they would seek revenge. Emperor Wen partially adopted his advice, appointing Liu Wu as King of Liang. After Jia Yi's death at thirty-three, his predictions came true: the Seven Kingdoms rebelled, but Liang's strength helped suppress them. Emperor Wu later executed some of King Li's sons for rebellion. The historian praised Jia Yi's insights on governance, comparing him to Yi Yin and Guan Zhong. Though his ideas were only partially implemented, his writings on statecraft were influential. His early death prevented him from reaching high office, but his legacy endured through his fifty-eight essays.

