Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝惠皇帝讳衷，字正度，武帝第二子也。
泰始三年，立为皇太子，时年九岁。
太熙元年四月己酉，武帝崩。是日，皇太子即皇帝位，大赦，改元为永熙。尊皇后杨氏曰皇太后，立妃贾氏为皇后。
夏五月辛未，葬武皇帝于峻阳陵。
丙子。增天下位一等，预丧事者二等，复租调一年，二千石已上皆封关中侯。
以太尉杨骏为太傅，辅政。
秋八月壬午，立广陵王遹为皇太子，以中书监何劭为太子太师，吏部尚书王戎为太子太傅，卫将军杨济为太子太保。
赖祖宗遗灵，宰辅忠贤，得以眇身托于群后之上，昧于大道，不明于训，战战兢兢，夕惕若厉。乃者哀迷之际，三事股肱，惟社稷之重，率遵翼室之典，犹欲长奉先皇之制，是以有永熙之号。然日月逾迈，已涉新年，开元易纪，礼之旧章。
其改永熙二年为永平元年。
又诏子弟及郡官并不得谒陵。
丙午，皇太子冠，丁未，见于太庙。
二月甲寅，赐王公已下帛各有差。
translation: 
Emperor Hui Ji, Emperor Xiaohui's name is Zhong, and his courtesy name is Zhengdu. He is the second son of Emperor Wu.
In the third year of Taishi's reign, he was established as the crown prince. He was nine years old at the time.
On April 20, the first year of Taixi, Emperor Wu died. On that day, the crown prince ascended the throne as emperor. He granted a general amnesty to sinners, changed the reign name to Yongxi, honored the empress Yang as the empress dowager, and established the crown prince Jia as the empress.
On the 13th day of the fifth lunar month, Emperor Wu was buried in Junyang Mausoleum.
On the 18th, the official rank in the world was increased to one level, and those who participated in the funeral of Emperor Wu were increased to the second level. People were exempted from taxes for one year, and officials with more than 2,000 shi were granted the title of Guanzhong Marquis.
Taiwei Yang Jun was appointed as Taifu to assist in government affairs.
On the twenty-sixth day of the eighth month in autumn, Sima Wei, the king of Guangling, was established as the crown prince, He Shao, the eunuch of the Zhongshu, as the crown prince's chief tutor, Wang Rong, the official secretary of the Ministry of Personnel, as the crown prince's Taifu, and General Yang Ji of the Wei as the crown prince's Taibao.
Nan Zhonglang General Shi Chong, Shesheng Colonel Hu Yi, Changshui Colonel Zhao Jun, and Yang Lie General Zhao Huan were sent to lead their troops to garrison in all directions. On the sixth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Sikong Shijian was appointed as Taiwei, and Sima Tai, the former general of Zhenxi and King of Longxi, was appointed as Sikong. On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongping, Emperor Hui came to the court to celebrate, but there was no music. The edict said: I have suffered misfortune early on and have endured hardships for a long time. It is only because of the spirit of my ancestors and the loyalty and virtuousness of my ministers and ministers that I am able to entrust my small body to the princes and ministers. I don't know the great road and ancient precepts, so I am trembling with fear, day and night. The three ministers attached great importance to the country, abided by the old regulations in the palace, and always followed the system of the previous emperor, so they changed the reign name to Yongxi. However, as time passed, the new year has entered, and the new era has changed, but the old rituals are still the same.
The second year of Yongxi is now changed to the first year of Yongping.
He also issued an edict that his children and officials were not allowed to visit the mausoleum.
On the 22nd, the crown prince came of age and was crowned. On the 23rd, he went to the Ancestral Temple to pay his respects.
On the first day of the second lunar month, the following silks were given to the prince.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
癸酉，镇南将军楚王玮、镇东将军淮南王允来朝。
戊寅，复置秘书监官。
三月辛卯，诛太傅杨骏，骏弟卫将军珧，太子太保济，中护军张劭，散骑常侍段广、杨邈。左将军刘预，河同尹李斌，中书令符俊，东夷校尉文淑，尚书武茂，皆夷三族。
壬辰，大赦，改元。
贾后矫诏废皇太后为庶人，徙于金墉城，告于天地宗庙。
诛太后母庞氏。
壬寅，征大司马、汝南王亮为太宰，与太保卫瓘辅政。
以秦王柬为大将军，东平王楙为抚军大将军，镇南将军、楚王玮为卫将军，领北军中候，下邳王晃为尚书令，东安公繇为尚书左仆射，进封东安王。
督将侯者千八十一人。
庚戌，免东安王繇及东平王楙，繇徙带方。
translation: 
On the 20th, Sima Wei, the general of Zhennan and the king of Chu, and Sima Yun, the general of Zhendong and the king of Huainan, came to see him.
On the 25th, he resumed his position as secretary and supervisor.
On the eighth day of March, they killed Grand Tutor Yang Jun, Yang Jun's brother Wei General Yang Jue, Prince Taibao Yang Ji, Central Guard Zhang Shao, Sanqi Changshi Duan Guang and Yang Miao, Zuo General Liu Yu, Henan Yin Li Bin, Zhongshu Ling Jiang Jun, Dongyi school captain Wen Shu, Shangshu Wu Mao, all three tribes were wiped out.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, sinners are pardoned and the year is changed.
Under the guise of the emperor's edict, Empress Jia deposed the Empress Dowager as a commoner, moved to Jinyong City, and offered sacrifices to the Tiandi Ancestral Temple.
Killed the Queen Mother Pang.
On the 19th, Da Sima and Sima Liang, king of Runan, were recruited as Dazai, and together with Taibao Niu, they assisted in the government affairs.
Sima Jian, the king of Qin, was the general of the Fu army, Sima Mao, the king of Dongping, was the general of the Fu army. General Zhennan and Sima Wei, the king of Chu, were the generals of the guards, leading the middle marquis of the northern army. Sima Huang, the king of Xiapi, was the Shangshu Ling. Ma Yao of the Dong'an Company was the Shangshu Zuopushe, and Jin was granted the title of King of Dong'an.
There are 1,081 people who have been ennobled by the governor-general.
On the 27th, Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, and Sima Mao, king of Dongping, were relieved of their official positions, and Sima Yao moved to Daifang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
夏四月癸亥，以征东将军、梁王肜为征西大将军、都督关西诸军事，太子少傅阮垣为平东将军、监青徐二州诸军事。
己巳，以太子太傅王戎为尚书右仆射。
五月甲戌，毗陵王轨薨。
壬午，除天下户调绵绢，赐孝悌、高年、鳏寡、力田者帛，人三匹。
六月，贾后矫诏使楚王玮杀太宰、汝南王亮，太保、菑阳公卫瓘。
乙丑，以玮擅害亮、瓘，杀之。
曲赦洛阳。
以广陵王师刘寔为太子太保，司空、陇西王泰录尚书事。
秋七月，分扬州、荆州十郡为江州。
八月庚申，以赵王伦为征东将军、都督徐兗二州诸军事；河间王颙为北中郎将，镇鄴；太子太师何劭为都督豫州诸军事，镇许昌。
徙长沙王乂为常山王。
己巳，进西阳公羕爵为王。
辛未，立陇西世子越为东海王。
九月甲午，大将军、秦王柬薨。
辛丑，徵征西大将军、梁王肜为卫将军、录尚书事，以赵王伦为征西大将军、都督雍梁二州诸军事。
translation: 
On the 11th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Sima Xu, the king of Liang and the general of Zhengdong, was appointed as the general of Zhengxi and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Guanxi. The prince Shaofu Ruan Tan was appointed as the general of Pingdong and the governor of Qing and Xuzhou.
On the 17th, Prince Taifu Wang Rong was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
On the day of Jiaxu in the fifth month, Sima Gui, the king of Piling, died.
On Renwu, all people in the world were exempted from taxes and silk. Those who were filial, elderly, widowed, and those who worked hard in the fields were given three pieces of silk each.
In the sixth month, Empress Jia used the emperor's edict to send King Sima Wei of Chu to kill Dazai, King Sima Liang of Runan, and Taibao Sima Wei.
On the 13th, Sima Wei was executed for killing Sima Liang and Wei Ni without permission.
Amnesty for prisoners in Luoyang.
Liu Shi, the teacher of King Guangling, was appointed as the Taibao of the Crown Prince, and Sikong and King Sima Tai of Longxi were appointed ministers.
In the seventh month of autumn, ten counties were divided from Jingzhou and Yangzhou into Jiangzhou.
On the ninth day of August, Sima Lun, king of Zhao, was appointed as the general to conquer the east and the military commander of Xu and Yanzhou; Sima Yong, king of Hejian, was the general of Beizhonglang, guarding Yecheng; He Shao, the prince's grand master, was the commander of the military of Yuzhou and guarded Xuchang.
King Sima Kui moved to Changsha and became the King of Changshan.
On the 18th, Ma Fan of Xiyang Company was promoted to king.
On the 20th, Sima Yue, the eldest son of Longxi King Sima Tai, was made King of East China Sea.
On September 14th, the general Qin Wang Sima Jian died.
On the 21st, Sima Xu, the general of the expedition to the west and the king of Liang, was recruited as the general of the guard and the official secretary. Sima Lun, the king of Zhao, was recruited as the general of the expedition to the west and the governor of Yong and Liang states.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
冬十二月辛酉，京师地震。
是岁，东夷十七国、南夷二十四部并诣校尉内附。
二年春二月己酉，贾后弑皇太后于金墉城。
秋八月壬子，大赦。
九月乙酉，中山王耽薨。
冬十一月，大疫。
是岁，沛国雨雹，伤麦。
三年夏四月，荥阳雨雹。
六月，弘农郡雨雹，深三尺。
冬十月，太原王泓薨。
四年春正月丁酉朔，侍中、太尉、安昌公石鉴薨。
夏五月，蜀郡山移，淮南寿春洪水出，山崩地陷，坏城府及百姓庐舍。
匈奴郝散反，攻上党，杀长吏。
六月，寿春地大震，死者二十余家。
上庸郡山崩，杀二十余人。
秋八月，郝散帅众降，冯翊都尉杀之。
上谷居庸、上庸并地陷裂，水泉涌出，人有死者。
大饥。
九月丙辰，赦诸州之遭地灾者。
translation: 
On December 12th in winter, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In this year, the seventeen countries of Dongyi and the twenty-four tribes of Nanyi went to the school captain who had jurisdiction over the barbarians to contact them.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of February, Empress Jia killed the Empress Dowager in Jinyong City.
On the seventh day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, a general amnesty will be implemented.
On September 11th, Sima Dan, King of Zhongshan, died.
In November of winter in Hongchao Network, a great plague occurred.
This year, there was hail in the country of Pei, which destroyed the wheat.
In April of the third year of summer, there was hail in Xingyang.
In June, there was hail in Hongnong County, which was three feet deep.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Hong, king of Taiyuan, died.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, Shi Zhong, Taiwei, and Anchang Gongshi Jian died.
In the fifth month of summer, the mountains in Shu County moved, and the Shouchun flood in Huainan burst its banks, causing landslides and landslides, destroying the city, government offices and people's houses.
The Huns Hao San rebelled, attacked and plundered Shangdang, and killed the local governor.
In June, a strong earthquake occurred in Shouchun, killing more than 20 families.
A landslide in Shangyong County killed more than 20 people.
In the eighth month of autumn, Hao San led his troops to surrender, and Captain Feng Yi killed him.
The lands of Shanggu, Juyong and Shangyong collapsed, springs gushed out from the ground, and there were casualties.
A great famine occurred.
On September 23, areas affected by the earthquake were pardoned in various states.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
甲午，枉矢东北竟天。
是岁，京师及郡国八地震。
五年夏四月，彗星见于西方，孛于奎，至轩辕。
六月，金城地震。
东海雨雹，深五寸。
秋七月，下邳暴风，坏庐舍。
九月，雁门、新兴、太原、上党大风，伤禾稼。
冬十月，武库火，焚累代之宝。
十二月丙戌，新作武库，大调兵器。
丹杨雨雹。
有石生于京师宜年里。
是岁，荆、扬、兗、豫、青、徐等六州大水，诏遣御史巡行振贷。
六年春正月，大赦。
司空、下邳王晃薨。
以中书监张华为司空，大尉、陇西王泰为尚书令，卫将军、梁王肜为太子太保。
丁丑，地震。
三月，东海陨霜，伤桑麦。
彭城吕县有流血，东西百余步。
夏四月，大风。
translation: 
During the Sino-Japanese War of the Sino-Japanese War, big meteors started from the northeast and crossed the sky.
This year, an earthquake occurred in the capital and eight counties.
In April of the fifth year of summer, the comet appeared in the west, passed by Kuixing, and reached the Xuanyuan constellation.
In June, there was an earthquake in Jincheng.
There was hail in the East China Sea, which was five inches deep.
In the seventh month of autumn, a strong wind blew in Xiapi, destroying the houses.
In September, strong winds blew in Yanmen, Xinxing, Taiyuan and Shangdang, destroying crops.
In the tenth month of winter, a fire broke out in the arsenal, destroying the treasures left behind by the past dynasties.
On the first day of December, a new arsenal was built and a large number of weapons were mobilized.
Danyang hails.
A stone was born from the ground in the appropriate year of the capital.
This year, floods occurred in Jing, Yang, Yan, Henan, Qing, and Xu states. The emperor issued an edict to send censors to various places to inspect and relieve the victims.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, sinners are pardoned.
Sikong and Sima Huang, king of Xiapi, died.
Zhang Hua, the Superintendent of the Zhongshu, was the Sikong, Taiwei and Sima Tai, the King of Longxi, were the Shangshu Ling, and General Wei and Sima Xu, the King of Liang, were the Taibao of the Crown Prince.
On the 22nd, there was an earthquake.
In March, frost fell in Donghai County, damaging the mulberry trees and wheat seedlings.
There was blood on the ground in Lu County, Pengcheng, and it was more than a hundred steps long from east to west.
In April in summer, there is a strong wind.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
五月，荆、扬二州大水。
匈奴郝散弟度元帅冯翊、北地马兰羌、庐水胡反，攻北地，太守张损死之。
冯翊太守欧阳建与度元战，建败绩。
徵征西大将军、赵王伦为车骑将军，以太子太保、梁王肜为征西大将军、都督雍梁二州诸军事，镇关中。
秋八月，雍州刺史解系又为度元所破。
秦雍氐、羌悉叛，推氐帅齐万年僭号称帝，围泾阳。
冬十月乙未，曲赦雍、凉二州。
十一月丙子，遣安西将军夏侯俊、建威将军周处等讨万年，梁王肜屯好畤。
关中饥，大疫。
七年春正月癸丑，周处及齐万年战于六陌，王师败绩，处死之。
夏五月，鲁国雨雹。
秋七月，雍、梁州疫。
大旱，陨霜，杀秋稼。
关中饥，米斛万钱。诏骨肉相卖者不禁。
丁丑，司徒、京陵公王浑薨。
九月，以尚书右仆射王戎为司徒，太子太师何劭为尚书左仆射。
translation: 
In May, there were floods in Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
Duyuan, the brother of Hao San, the Xiongnu, led Feng Yi, Malanqiang and Lushui Hu people in the Beidi area to rebel and attack the Beidi. The governor of the Beidi died in the battle.
Ouyang Jian, the governor of Feng Yi, fought with Du Yuan, and Ouyang Jian was defeated.
He summoned the General of the West and Zhao Wang Sima Lun as the Chariot and Cavalry General, and the Prince Taibao and the Liang King Sima Xu as the General of the West. They commanded the military forces of Yong and Liang Provinces to guard Guanzhong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Yongzhou governor Jie Xi was defeated by Du Yuan again.
The Di and Qiang people in Qin Yong's area rebelled, elected Qi Wannian, the leader of the Di people, proclaimed himself emperor, and besieged Jingyang.
On the fourteenth day of the tenth month in winter, Yong and Liang prefectures were granted amnesty.
On November 26, General Xia Houjun of Anxi, General Zhou Chu of Jianwei and others were sent to attack Qi Wannian. King Sima Xu of Liang garrisoned the territory.
Famine and plague occurred in Guanzhong.
On the fourth day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, Zhou Chu and Qi Wannian fought at Liumo. The Jin army was defeated and Zhou Chu died in the battle.
In the fifth month of summer, there was hail in the state of Lu.
In the seventh month of autumn, plague broke out in Yongzhou and Liangzhou.
Severe drought and frost destroy autumn crops.
There was a famine in Guanzhong, and the price of dendrobium was 10,000 yuan per hoe. The emperor issued an edict, allowing the selling of sons and daughters.
Ding Chou, Prince Qingsheng of Jingling.
In the ninth month, Wang Rong, the right servant of Shangshu, was appointed as Situ, and He Shao, the crown prince and grand master, was appointed as Shangshu's left servant.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
八年春正月丙辰，地震。
诏发仓禀，振雍州饥人。
三月壬戌，大赦。
夏五月，郊禖石破为二。
秋九月，荆、豫、扬、徐、冀等五州大水。
雍州有年。
九年春正月，左积弩将军孟观伐氐，战于中亭，大破之，获齐万年。
徵征西大将军、梁王肜录尚书事。
以北中郎将、河间王颙为镇西将军，镇关中；成都王颍为镇北大将军，镇鄴。
夏四月，鄴人张承基等妖言署置，聚党数千。
郡县逮捕，皆伏诛。
六月戊戌，太尉、陇西王泰薨。
秋八月，以尚书裴頠为尚书仆射。
冬十一月甲子朔，日有蚀之。
京师大风，发屋折木。
十二月壬戌，废皇太子遹为庶人，及其三子幽于金墉城，杀太子母谢氏。
永康元年春正月癸亥朔，大赦，改元。
translation: 
On the thirteenth day of the first lunar month in the eighth year of spring, there was an earthquake.
The emperor issued an order to open warehouses to help the hungry people in Yongzhou.
On March 19, there is a general amnesty for sinners.
In the fifth month of summer, a stone case dedicated to a certain god in the suburbs of Beijing broke into two.
In autumn and September, floods occurred in the five prefectures of Jing, Yu, Yang, Xu, and Hebei.
Yongzhou has a good harvest.
In the first month of the spring of the ninth year, General Meng Guan of Zuo Jinu attacked the rebellious Di people. They fought at Zhongting, defeated the Di people and captured Qi Wannian.
He summoned General Xi Jinping and Liang Wang Sima Xu to record the affairs of the minister.
General Zhonglang of the North and Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, were the generals of Zhenxi and guarded Guanzhong; Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was the general of Zhenbei and guarded Yecheng.
In April of summer, Zhang Chengji and others from Ye deceived the public with their evil words, set up offices and appointed officials, and gathered thousands of party members.
The counties arrested and executed them all.
On the third day of June, Taiwei Longxi King Sima Tai died.
In autumn and August, Shangshu Pei Weiye was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
On the first day of November in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
A strong wind blew over the capital, knocking off roofs and breaking trees.
On December 30, the crown prince Sima Wei was deposed as a commoner, and together with his three sons, they were imprisoned in Jinyong City and killed the crown prince's mother, Xie.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yongkang, sinners were pardoned and the reign name was changed.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
己卯，日有蚀之。丙子，皇孙霖卒。
二月丁酉，大风，飞沙拔木。
三月，尉氏雨血，妖星见于南方。
癸未，贾后矫诏害庶人遹于许昌。
夏四月辛卯，日有蚀之。
癸巳，梁王肜、赵王伦矫诏废贾后为庶人，司空张华、尚书仆射裴頠皆遇害，侍中贾谧及党与数十人皆伏诛。
甲午，伦矫诏大赦，自为相国、都督中外诸军，如宣文辅魏故事，追复故皇太子位。
丁酉，以梁王肜为太宰，左光禄大夫何劭为司徒，右光禄大夫刘寔为司空，淮南王允为骠骑将军。
己亥，赵王伦矫诏害贾庶人于金墉城。
五月己巳，立皇孙臧为皇太孙，尚为襄阳王。
六月壬寅，葬怀愍太子于显平陵。
translation: 
On the 17th, there is a solar eclipse. On the 14th, the emperor's grandson Sima Yu died.
On the sixth day of February, strong winds blew up, raising gravel and uprooting trees.
In March, blood fell from the sky in Weishi County, and the demon star appeared in the south.
On the 22nd, Empress Jia used the emperor's edict to kill the deposed prince Sima Sui in Xuchang.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
On the third day of the lunar month, King Sima Xu of Liang and King Sima Lun of Zhao used the emperor's order to depose Empress Jia as a commoner. Sikong Zhanghua and Shangshu Pushe Pei Weiye were killed at the same time. The servant Jia Mi and dozens of his followers were executed.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Sima Lun used the emperor's edict to implement a general amnesty, proclaimed himself Prime Minister, and was in charge of all domestic and foreign military affairs. His status was like that of Sima Yi in the Wei Dynasty, and he restored the title of the old crown prince.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sima Xu, the king of Liang, was appointed as the chief minister, He Shao, the official of Zuo Guanglu, was appointed as Situ, Liu Chen, the official of Guanglu of the right, was appointed as Sikong, and Sima Yun, the king of Huainan, was appointed as the hussar general.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Zhao Wang Sima Lun used the emperor's order to kill the deposed Empress Jia in Jinyong City.
On the ninth day of the fifth lunar month, the emperor's grandson Sima Zang was made the emperor's grandson, and Sima Shang was made the king of Xiangyang.
On June 13, Prince Minhuai was buried in Xianping Mausoleum.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
抚军将军、清河王遐薨。
癸卯，震崇阳陵标。
秋八月，淮南王允举兵讨赵王伦，不克，允及其二子秦王郁、汉王迪皆遇害。
曲赦洛阳。
平东将军、彭城王植薨。
改封吴王晏为宾徒县王。
以齐王冏为平东将军，镇许昌；光禄大夫陈准为太尉、录尚书事。
九月，改司徒为丞相，以梁王肜为之。
冬十月，黄务四塞。
十一月戊午，大风飞沙石，六日乃止。
甲子，立皇后羊氏，大赦，大酺三日。
十二月，彗星见于东方。
益州刺史赵廞与洛阳流人李庠害成都内史耿胜、犍为太守李密、汶山太守霍固、西夷校尉陈总，据成都反。
永宁元年春正月乙丑，赵王伦篡帝位。
丙寅，迁帝于金墉城，号曰太上皇，改金墉曰永昌宫。
translation: 
Sima Ya, the general of Fujun and king of Qinghe, died.
On the 14th, lightning struck the top of Chongyang Mausoleum.
In the eighth month of autumn, Sima Yun, king of Huainan, led an army to attack Sima Lun, but failed to win. Sima Yun and his two sons, Sima Yu, king of Qin, and Sima Di, king of Han, were all killed.
Amnesty for prisoners in Luoyang.
General Pingdong and King of Pengcheng Sima Zhi died.
Sima Yan, King of Wu, was renamed King of Bintu County.
Sima, the king of Qi, was appointed as General Pingdong to guard Xuchang; Chen Zhun, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as Taiwei and recorded the affairs of the Shangshu.
In September, Situ was changed to prime minister, and Sima Shu, the king of Liang, was appointed as the prime minister.
In October in winter, yellow fog spreads everywhere.
On the first day of November, a strong wind blew up sand and gravel, and it lasted for six days before it stopped.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Queen Yang was established, and she granted amnesty to all sinners in the world, and granted a three-day private banquet to celebrate.
In December, the comet appears in the east.
Zhao Bao, the governor of Yizhou, and Li Xiang, a refugee from Lueyang, killed Geng Sheng, the internal historian of Chengdu, Li Mi, the governor of Qianwei, Huo Gu, the governor of Wenshan, and Mr. Chen, the captain of the Xiyi school, and occupied Chengdu in rebellion.
On the ninth day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yongning, King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Emperor Hui was moved to Jinyong City, known as the Supreme Emperor, and Jinyong was renamed Yongchang Palace.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
废皇太孙臧为濮阳王。
五星经天，纵横无常。
癸酉，伦害濮阳王臧。
洛阳流人李特杀赵廞，传首京师。
三月，平东将军、齐王冏起兵以讨伦，传檄州郡，屯于阳翟。
征北大将军、成都王颖，征西大将军、河间王颙，常山王乂，豫州刺史李毅，兗州刺史王彦，南中朗将、新野公歆，皆举兵应之，众数十万。
伦遣其将闾和出伊阙，张泓、孙辅出堮坂以距冏，孙会、士猗、许超出黄桥以距颍。及颖将赵骧、石超战于溴水，会等大败，弃军走。
闰月丙戌朔，日有蚀之。夏四月，岁星昼见。
冏将何勖等击张泓于阳翟，大破之，斩孙辅等。
辛酉，左卫将军王舆与尚书、淮陵王漼勒兵入宫，禽伦党孙秀、孙会、许超、士猗、骆休等，皆斩之。
逐伦归第，即日乘舆反正。
translation: 
The emperor's grandson Sima Zang was deposed as King of Puyang.
Five stars are flowing in the sky, vertical and horizontal.
On the 17th, Sima Lun killed Sima Zang, king of Puyang.
Li Te, a man from Lueyang, killed Zhao Bao and his head was passed to the capital.
In March, General Pingdong and King of Qi Sima Wei raised troops to attack Sima Lun. The message was spread to various states and counties, and the army was stationed in Yangzhai.
General Zhengbei, Sima Ying, King of Chengdu, General Zhengxi, Sima Yong, King of Hejian, Sima Qi, King of Changshan, Li Yi, the governor of Yuzhou, Wang Yan, the governor of Yanzhou, General Lang of Nanzhong, and Ma Xin of the Xinye Company all raised their troops to respond to King Sima Wei of Qi, with a total of hundreds of thousands of troops from each route.
Sima Lun sent his generals Lu He to send troops to Yique, Zhang Hong and Sun Fu sent troops to Ban to fight against Sima Wei. Sun Hui, Shi Yi, and Xu Chao sent troops to Huangqiao to resist Sima Ying. They fought with Sima Ying's generals Zhao Xiang and Shi Chao at Bromishui. Sun Hui and others were defeated and fled.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. In April of summer, the year star appears during the day.
Sima Cheng's generals He Xu and Lu Bo defeated Zhang Hong's army in Yangzhai and killed Sun Fu and others.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Zuo Wei General Wang Yu and Shangshu Huailing King Sima Xucui led their troops into the palace and captured Sima Lun's party members Sun Xiu, Sun Hui, Xu Chao, Shi Yi, Luo Xiu, etc., and they were all beheaded.
Drive Sima Lun back to his mansion. Emperor Hui took the throne anyway that day.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
群臣顿首谢罪，帝曰： 非诸卿之过也。
癸亥，诏曰： 朕以不德，纂承皇统，远不能光济大业，靖绥四方；近不能开明刑威，式遏奸宄，至使逆臣孙秀敢肆凶虐，窥间王室，遂奉赵王伦饕据天位。
镇东大将军、齐王冏，征北大将军、成都王颖，征西大将军、河间王颙，并以明德茂亲，忠规允著，首建大策，匡救国难。
尚书漼共立大谋，左卫将军王舆与群公卿士，协同谋略，亲勒本营，斩秀及其二子。
前赵王伦为秀所误，与其子等已诣金墉迎朕幽宫，旋轸阊阖。岂在予一人独飨其庆，宗庙社稷实有赖焉。
于是大赦，改元，孤寡赐谷五斛，大酺五日。
诛赵王伦、义阳王威、九门侯质等及伦之党与。
五月，立襄阳王尚为皇太孙。
六月戌辰，大赦，增吏位二等。复封宾徒王晏为吴王。
庚午，东莱王蕤、左卫将军王舆谋废齐王冏，事泄，蕤废为庶人，舆伏诛，夷三族。
translation: 
The ministers kowtowed and apologized. Emperor Hui said, "This is not your fault."
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Emperor Hui issued an edict saying: As an immoral person, I inherited the throne, far from being able to prosper the great cause and appease the four sides, and far from being able to impose strict punishments and prohibit traitors. As a result, Sun Xiu, the rebellious minister, committed evil wantonly and waited for an opportunity to alienate the royal family, so he stole the throne from King Zhao Sima Lun.
General Zhendong and King Cong of Qi, General Zhengbei and Wang Ying of Chengdu, General Zhengxi and King Sima Yong of Hejian, all have good virtues and are members of the royal family. They are loyal to the country and behave appropriately. They are the first to oppose the great plan and save the country.
Shangshu Xu Cui participated in the plan, and the left guard general Wang Yu and the public officials and officials coordinated the plan and personally commanded the soldiers of the camp to kill Sun Xiu and his two sons.
The former King of Zhao Sima Lun was mistaken by Sun Xiu, and he and his sons have come to Jinyong You Palace to welcome me back to the throne. I am not the only one who deserves to be lucky, but the ancestral temple and the country also depend on it.
So a general amnesty was implemented, the year name was changed, the orphans and the helpless were each given grain and five dendrobiums, and a banquet among the people was allowed for five days.
Killed Zhao Wang Sima Lun, Yiyang King Sima Wei, Jiumen Hou Zhi, etc., as well as Sima Lun's party members.
In May, Sima Shang, king of Xiangyang, was made the grandson of the emperor.
On June 15, sinners were pardoned, officials were promoted to the second level, and the guest king Sima Yan was restored to the title of King of Wu.
On the 17th, King Sima Rui of Donglai and General Wang Yu of Zuowei plotted to depose King Sima Wei of Qi. The plot was leaked, Sima Rui was deposed as a commoner, Wang Yu was executed, and the three tribes were wiped out.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
甲戌，以齐王冏为大司马、都督中外诸军事，成都王颍为大将军、录尚书事，河间王颙为太尉。
罢丞相，复置司徒官。
已卯，以梁王肜为太宰，领司徒。
封齐王冏功臣葛牟平公，路季小黄公，卫毅平阴公，刘真安乡公，韩泰封丘公。
秋七月甲午，立吴王晏子国为汉王，复封常山王乂为长沙王。
八月，大赦。
戊辰，原徙边者。
益州刺史罗尚讨羌，破之，己巳，徙南平王祥为宜都王。
下邳王韡薨。
以东平王楙为平东将军、都督徐州诸军事。
九月，追东安王繇复其爵。
丁丑，封楚王玮子范为襄阳王。
冬十月，流人李特反于蜀。
十二月，司空何劭薨。
封齐王冏子冰为乐安王，英为济阳王，超为淮南王。
translation: 
On the 21st, Sima Wei, the king of Qi, was appointed as the chief commander and the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military affairs. Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was appointed as the general and the official secretary. Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, was appointed as the Taiwei.
The prime minister was dismissed and the Situ official was reinstated.
On the 26th, Sima Xu, the king of Liang, was appointed as the Grand Prime Minister and also held the post of Situ.
Ge Qi, the hero of King Sima Wei of Qi, was granted the title of Duke Mouping, Lu Ji was granted the title of Xiaohuang Gong, Wei Yi was granted the title of Pingyin Gong, Liu Zhen was granted the title of Anxiang Gong, and Han Tai was granted the title of Qiu Gong.
On the eleventh day of the seventh month in autumn, the son of Sima Yan, king of Wu, was made king of Han, and Sima Xi, king of Changshan, was restored to be king of Changsha.
In August, a general amnesty was implemented.
On the 16th, the people who moved to the border were exempted.
Luo Shang, the governor of Yizhou, attacked and defeated the Qiang people. On the 17th, Sima Xiang, the king of Nanping, became the king of Yidu.
Sima Weihua, king of Xiapi, died.
Sima Mao, King of Dongping, was appointed as General Pingdong and was in charge of all military affairs in Xuzhou.
In September, the title of Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, was restored.
Ding Chou named Sima Fan, the son of King Sima Wei of Chu, the King of Xiangyang.
In the tenth month of winter, the exiled Li Te rebelled against Shu.
In December, Sikong Heshao died.
Sima Bing, the son of King Sima Cheng of Qi, was named King of Le'an, Sima Ying was named King of Jiyang, and Sima Chao was named King of Huainan.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是岁，郡国十二旱，六蝗。
太安元年春正月庚子，安东将军、谯王随薨。
三月癸卯，赦司、冀、兗、豫四州。
皇太孙尚薨。
夏四月，彗星昼见。
五月；乙酉，侍中、太宰、领司徒、梁王肜薨。
以右光禄大夫刘寔为太傅。
太尉、河间王颙遣将衙博击李特于蜀，为特所败。
特遂陷梓潼、巴西，害广汉太守张微，自号大将军。
癸卯，以清河王遐子覃为皇太子，赐孤寡帛，大酺五日。
以齐王冏为太师，东海王越为司空。
秋七月，兗、豫、徐、冀等四州大水。
冬十月，地震。
十二月丁卯，河间王颙表齐王冏窥伺神器，有无君之心，与成都王颍、新野王歆、范阳王虓同会洛阳，请废冏还第。
translation: 
This year, drought occurred in twelve counties and locust plague occurred in six counties.
On the 20th day of the first month of the first year of Tai'an, General Anton and Prince Qiao died with him.
On March 24, prisoners in Si, Ji, Yan, and Hezhou were pardoned.
The emperor's grandson Sima Shang died.
In April in summer, comets appear during the day.
On the seventh day of the fifth lunar month, Shizhong, Dazai, Leader Situ, and Liang Wang Sima Xu died.
Liu Shi, the doctor of Youguanglu, was appointed as the Taifu.
Taiwei and Hejian King Sima Yong sent Yabo into Shu to attack Li Te, but he was defeated by Li Te.
Li Te immediately captured Zitong and Brazil, killed Zhang Wei, the prefect of Guanghan, and proclaimed himself a general.
On the 25th, Sima Qin, the son of Sima Ya, king of Qinghe, was appointed as the crown prince, and cloth was given to the lonely and helpless people, and the people were given a banquet for five days.
Sima Cheng, the king of Qi, was appointed as the grand master, and Sima Yue, the king of the East China Sea, was appointed as Sikong.
In autumn and July, heavy rains caused disasters in the four prefectures of Yan, Henan, Xu, and Hebei.
In October in winter, there was an earthquake.
On December 22, Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, petitioned the emperor, saying that Sima Wei, the king of Qi, was waiting for an opportunity to usurp power and had no king in his heart. He, Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, Sima Xin, the king of Xinye, and Sima Xin, the king of Fanyang, gathered in Luoyang to request the emperor to depose Sima Wei and return him to his palace.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
长沙王乂奉乘舆屯南止车门，攻冏，杀之，幽其诸子于金墉城，废冏弟北海王寔。
大赦，改元。
以长沙王乂为太尉、都督中外诸军事。
封东莱王蕤子照为齐王。
二年春正月甲子朔，赦五岁刑。
三月，李特攻陷益州。
荆州刺史宋岱击特，斩之，传首京师。
夏四月，特子雄复据益州。
五月，义阳蛮张昌举兵反，以山都人丘沈为主，改姓刘氏，伪号汉，建元神凤，攻破郡县，南阳太守刘彬，平南将军羊尹，镇南大将军、新野王歆并遇害。
六月，遣荆州刺史刘弘等讨张昌于方城，王师败绩。
秋七月，中书令卞粹、侍中冯荪、河南尹李含等贰于长沙王乂，乂疑而害之。
张昌陷江南诸郡，武陵太守贾隆、零陵太守孔纮、豫章太守阎济、武昌太守刘根皆遇害。
昌别帅石冰寇扬州，刺史陈徽与战，大败，诸郡尽没。
临淮人封云举兵应之，自阜陵寇徐州。
八月，河间王颙、成都王颖举兵讨长沙王乂，帝以乂为大都督，帅军御之。
庚申，刘弘及张昌战于清水，斩之。
颙遣其将张方，颍遣其将陆机、牵秀、石超等来逼京师。
乙丑，帝幸十三里桥，遣将军皇甫商距方于宜阳。
translation: 
Changsha King Sima Zhou coerced the emperor to station troops in the south, attacked Sima Cheng and killed him. He imprisoned Sima Cheng's sons in Jinyong City and deposed Sima Cheng's brother Beihai King Sima Shi.
A general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
Sima Xi, the king of Changsha, was appointed as the Taiwei and the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
Sima Huozhao, son of Sima Rui, King of Donglai, was granted the title of King of Qi.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year, criminals under five years old will be pardoned.
In March, Li Te captured Yizhou.
Song Dai, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Li Te. Li Te was killed and his head was sent to the capital.
In April of summer, Li Xiong, son of Li Te, occupied Yizhou again.
In May, Zhang Chang, a barbarian from Yiyang, rebelled. He promoted Qiu Shen, a native of Shandu, as the monarch. He changed his surname to Liu, his pseudonym Han, and his reign name Shenfeng. He conquered the prefectures and counties. Liu Bin, the prefect of Nanyang, Yang Yi, the general of Pingnan, and Sima Xin, the king of Xinye, the general of Zhennan, were all killed.
In June, Liu Hong, the governor of Jingzhou, and others were sent to attack Zhang Chang and attack Fangcheng. The Jin army was defeated.
In the seventh month of Autumn, Bian Cui of the Imperial Secretariat, Feng Sun, Henan Yin and Li Han had second thoughts about Sima Xi. Sima Xi also suspected them and killed them.
Zhang Chang captured the counties south of the Yangtze River. Jia Long, the prefect of Wuling, Kong Hong, the prefect of Lingling, Yan Ji, the prefect of Yuzhang, and Liu Gen, the prefect of Wuchang, were all killed.
Zhang Chang's general Shi Bing invaded Yangzhou, and the governor Chen Hui fought against him. He was defeated and all the counties in Yangzhou were occupied by Shi Bing.
Fengyun, a native of Linhuai, raised his troops to respond to Zhang Chang and set out from Fuling to invade Xuzhou.
In August, Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, and Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, raised troops to attack Sima Xun, the king of Changsha. Emperor Hui made Sima Xun the commander-in-chief and led his troops to resist.
On the 19th, Liu Hong and Zhang Chang fought in Qingshui, and Zhang Chang was killed.
Sima Yong dispatched Zhang Fang, and Sima Ying dispatched Lu Ji, Qian Xiu, Shi Chao and others to attack the capital.
On the 24th, Emperor Hui personally visited Shisanli Bridge and sent General Huangfu Shang to resist Zhang Fang in Yiyang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
己巳，帝旋军于宣武。
庚午，舍于石楼。
天中裂，无云而雷。
九月丁丑，帝次于河桥。
壬午，皇甫商为张方所败。
甲申，帝军于芒山。
丁亥，幸偃师。
辛卯，舍于豆田。
癸巳，尚书右仆射、兴晋侯羊玄之卒。帝旋于城东。
丙申，进军缑氏，击牵秀，走之。
大赦。
张方入京城，烧清明、开阳二门，死者万计。
石超逼乘舆于缑氏。
冬十月壬寅，帝旋于宫。
石超焚缑氏，服御无遗。
丁未，破牵秀、范阳王虓于东阳门外。
戊申，破陆机于建春门，石超走，斩其大将贾崇等十六人，悬首铜驼街。
张方退屯十三里桥。
十一月辛巳，星昼陨，声如雷。
师王攻方垒，不利。
方决千金堨，水碓皆涸。
translation: 
On the 28th, Emperor Hui returned to Xuanwu Field.
On the 29th, we stayed in Shilou.
A crack appeared in the middle of the sky, and there was no cloud but thunder.
On the sixth day of September, Emperor Hui moved to Heqiao.
On the eleventh day, Huangfu Shang was defeated by Zhang Fang.
On the 13th, Emperor Hui stationed his troops at Mangshan.
On the 16th, we arrived in Yanshi.
On the 20th, we stayed in a bean field.
On the 22nd, Shangshu's right servant shot Xing Jin Hou Yangxuan to death, and Emperor Hui returned to the east of the city.
On the 25th, he marched into Fengshi, attacked Qianxiu and drove him out.
Amnesty for criminals.
Zhang Fang entered the capital and burned the Qingming and Kaiyang gates. Tens of thousands of people were burned to death.
Shi Chao threatened Emperor Hui in Fengshi.
On the second day of October in winter, Emperor Hui returned to the palace.
Shi Chao burned Gou's family, and all his clothes, carriages and horses were burned.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Qianxiu and Fanyang King Sima Jiuhu were defeated outside Dongyang Gate. On the eighth day of the lunar month, Lu Ji was defeated at Jianchunmen, and Shi Chao was defeated and fled.
Sixteen of his generals, including Jia Chong, were beheaded and their heads were hung on Tongtuo Street for public display.
Zhang Fang retreated to Shisanli Bridge.
On the eleventh day of the eleventh month, a star fell in the daytime with a sound like thunder.
Wang Shi attacked Zhang Fang's camp but failed to win.
Zhang Fang dug up the water weir called Qianjin Tuhe, and there was no water in the water weir for pounding rice and grinding flour.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乃发王公奴婢手舂给兵禀，一品已下不从征者、男子十三以上皆从役。又发奴助兵，号为四部司马。
公私穷踧，米石万钱。
诏命所至，一城而已。
壬寅夜，赤气竟天，隐隐有声。
丙辰，地震。
癸亥，东海王越执长沙王乂，幽于金墉城，寻为张方所害。
甲子，大赦。丙寅，扬州秀才周、前南平内史王矩、前吴兴内史顾秘起义军以讨石冰。冰退，自临淮趣寿阳。
征东将军刘准遣广陵度支陈敏击冰。
李雄自郫城攻益州刺史罗尚，尚委城而遁，雄尽有成都之地。
封鲜卑段勿尘为辽西公。
永兴元年春正月丙午，尚书令乐广卒。
成都王颖自鄴讽于帝，乃大赦，改元为永安。
translation: 
So the princes and slaves were recruited to pound rice by hand to supply the army. Officials below the first rank who had not joined the army and men over thirteen years old were all required to do this labor. Slaves were also recruited to supplement the army, known as the Four Divisions of Sima.
Both public and private people are very poor, with a rice and a stone costing ten thousand yuan.
The emperor's edicts were only valid in the capital.
On the night of the third day of December, a burst of red gas shot up into the sky, making a faintly audible sound.
On the 17th, there was an earthquake.
On the 24th, Sima Yue, the king of the East China Sea, arrested Sima Yu, the king of Changsha, and imprisoned him in Jinyong City. He was soon killed by Zhang Fang.
On the 25th, a general amnesty was implemented. On the 27th, the Yangzhou scholar Zhou Wangji, the former Nanping internal historian Wang Ju, and the former Wuxing internal historian Gu Xubi formed a rebel army to attack Shi Bing. Shi Bing retreated and ran from Linhuai to Shouyang.
Liu Zhun, the general who conquered the east, sent Chen Min, a branch of Guangling, to attack Shi Bing.
Li Xiong attacked Luo Shang, the governor of Yizhou, from Picheng. Luo Shang abandoned the city and fled, and Li Xiong occupied the entire Chengdu area.
The imperial court granted Duan Wuchen, a native of Xianbei, the title of Duke of Western Liaoning.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yongxing, Shangshu ordered Le Guang to die.
Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, proposed to implement an amnesty from Ye and change the reign name to Yong'an.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
帝逼于河间王颙，密诏雍州刺史刘沈、秦州刺史皇甫重以讨之。
沈举举兵攻长安，为颙所败。
张方大掠洛中，还长安。
于是军中大馁，人相食。
以成都王颖为丞相。
颖遣从事中郎盛夔等以兵五万屯十二城门，殿中宿所忌者，颍皆杀之，以三部兵代宿卫。
二月乙酉，废皇后羊氏，幽于金墉城，黜皇太子覃复为清河王。
三月，陈敏攻石冰，斩之，扬、徐二州平。
河间王颙表请立成都王颖为太弟。
戊申，诏曰： 朕以不德，纂承鸿绪，于兹十有五载。
祸乱滔天，奸逆仍起，至乃幽废重宫，宗庙圮绝。
成都王颖温仁惠和，克平暴乱。
其以颖为皇太弟、都督中外诸军事，承相如故。
大赦，赐鳏寡高年帛三匹，大酺五日。
丙辰，盗窃太庙服器。
translation: 
Emperor Hui was coerced by Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, and secretly issued an edict to Liu Chen, the governor of Yongzhou, and Huangfu, the governor of Qinzhou, to attack Sima Yong.
Liu Chen sent troops to attack Chang'an, but was defeated by Sima Yong.
Zhang Fang looted Luoyang and returned to Chang'an.
At that time, the army and the people had no food, so they killed each other to eat.
The imperial court appointed Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, as prime minister.
Sima Ying dispatched Zhonglang Cheng Kui and others to lead 50,000 troops to guard the twelve city gates. The courtiers who were usually hated by Sima Ying were all killed by Sima Ying, and three troops were used to replace the palace guards.
On February 17, the Queen Yangshi was deposed and imprisoned in Jinyong City, and the Crown Prince Sima Tan was deposed as King of Qinghe.
In March, Chen Min attacked Shi Bing, Shi Bing was killed, and Yang and Xu states were pacified.
Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, petitioned to appoint Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, as the crown prince.
On the 11th, Emperor Hui issued an edict saying: It has been fifteen years since I succeeded to the throne as an immoral person.
The chaos is raging, traitors and traitors are rising one after another, so that I am imprisoned in the palace, and the sacrifices in the ancestral temple are cut off.
Wang Ying of Chengdu was kind and gentle, benefited the people and put down the riots.
Now Sima Ying is the emperor's younger brother and the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military affairs. The position of prime minister remains the same.
A general amnesty was implemented, and widows and widowers were given three pieces of silk. Five days of folk banquets.
On the 19th, thieves stole the clothes and utensils in the Ancestral Temple.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
以太尉颙为太宰，太傅刘实为太尉。
六月，新作三城门。
秋七月丙申朔，右卫将军陈以诏召百僚入殿中，因勒兵讨成都王颖。
戊戌，大赦，复皇后羊氏及皇太子覃。
己亥，司徒王戎、东海王越、高密王简、平昌公模、吴王晏、豫章王炽、襄阳王范、右仆射荀籓等奉帝北征，至安阳，众十余万，颖遣其将石超距战。
己未，六军败绩于荡阴，矢及乘舆，百官分散，侍中嵇绍死之。
帝伤颊，中三矢，亡六玺。
帝遂幸超军，馁甚，超进水，左右奉秋桃。
超遣弟熙奉帝之鄴，颖帅群官迎谒道左。
帝下舆涕泣，其夕幸于颖军。
颖府有九锡之仪，陈留王送貂蝉文衣鹖尾，明日，乃备法驾幸于鄴，唯豫章王炽、司徒王戎、仆射荀籓从。
translation: 
Taiwei Sima Yong was appointed as Taizai, and Taifu Liu Shi was appointed as Taiwei.
In June, three new city gates were built.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Chen Hui, the right-guard general, summoned hundreds of officials into the palace with an edict and deployed troops to attack Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu.
On the third day of the lunar month, a general amnesty was implemented, and the deposed Queen Yangshi and Prince Sima Tan were restored to their thrones.
On the fourth day of the lunar month, Situ Wangrong, Donghai King Sima Yue, Gaomi King Sima Jian, Pingchang Company Ma Mo, Wu King Sima Yan, Yuzhang King Sima Chi, Xiangyang King Sima Fan, Youpushe Xunfan and others supported Emperor Hui in the northern expedition to Anyang, with more than 100,000 troops.
Sima Ying sent his general Shi Chao to resist. On the 24th, the six armies of the imperial court were defeated in Dangyin. An arrow hit Emperor Hui's carriage. All the officials were scattered. Ji Shao, the servant, died in the chaos.
Emperor Hui was injured on the cheek, hit by three arrows, and lost six seals.
When Emperor Hui came to Shi Chao's army, he was very hungry and thirsty. Shi Chao brought some water, and his attendants presented some autumn peaches for Emperor Hui to enjoy.
Shi Chao sent his younger brother Shi Xi to escort Emperor Hui to Yecheng, and Sima Ying led a group of officials to line up to greet him.
Emperor Hui got out of the car, wept and mourned, and stayed in Sima Ying's army that night.
There were nine-tin ceremonial guards in Sima Ying's mansion, and King Chenliu presented Diao Chan with clothes and bird tails. The next day, he prepared a royal chariot specially for the emperor to ride into Yecheng. At this time, only King Sima Chi of Yuzhang, Situ Wangrong, and Pushe Xunfan followed Emperor Hui.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
庚申，大赦，改元为建武。
八月戊辰，颖杀东安王繇。
张方复入洛阳，废皇后羊氏及皇太子覃。
匈奴左贤王刘元海反于离石，自号大单于。
安北将军王浚遣乌丸骑攻成都王颖于鄴，大败之。颖舆帝单车走洛阳，服御分散，仓卒上下无赍，侍中黄门被囊中赍私钱三千，诏贷用。所在买饭以供，宫人止食于道中客舍。
宫人有持升余粇米饭及燥蒜盐豉以进帝，帝啖之，御中黄门布被。
次获嘉，市粗米饭，盛以瓦盆，帝啖两盂。
有老父献蒸鸡，帝受之。
至温，将谒陵，帝丧履，纳从者之履，下拜流涕，左右皆歔欷。
及济河，张方帅骑三千，以阳燧青盖车奉迎。方拜谒，帝躬止之。
辛巳，大赦，赏从者各有差。
冬十一月乙未，方请帝谒庙，因劫帝幸长安。
方以所乘车入殿中，帝驰避后园竹中。
方逼帝升车，左右中黄门鼓吹十二人步从，唯中书监卢志侍侧。
方以帝幸其垒，帝令方具车载宫人宝物，军人因妻略后宫，分争府藏。
魏晋已来之积，扫地无遗矣。
行次新安，寒甚，帝堕马伤足，尚书高光进面衣，帝嘉之。
河间王颙帅官属步骑三万，迎于霸上。
颙前拜谒，帝下车止之。
以征西府为宫。
translation: 
On the 25th, a general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed to Jianwu.
On the third day of August, Sima Ying killed Sima Yao, king of Dong'an.
Zhang Fang entered Luoyang again and deposed Queen Yangshi and Crown Prince Sima Tan.
The Xiongnu Zuoxian King Liu Yuanhai rebelled in Lishi and called himself the Great Chanyu.
Anbei general Wang Jun sent Wuwan cavalry to attack Chengdu king Sima Ying. Sima Ying was defeated in Yecheng and fled to Luoyang on bicycles with Emperor Hui. The entourage dispersed and moved in a hurry. No money and supplies were brought with them. Huang Men, the attendant, hid three thousand private money in his quilt. Emperor Hui issued an edict to borrow the three thousand money to buy food for the royal family along the way. The palace people could only stay in guest houses on the way.
A palace servant brought more than a liter of japonica rice and dried garlic, salt and black beans to Emperor Hui. Emperor Hui devoured it and covered himself with a quilt from the Huangmen Gate at night.
When he arrived in Huojia County, he bought some coarse rice and put it in a clay basin. Emperor Hui ate two bowls.
An old man offered steamed chicken, and Emperor Hui accepted it.
When he arrived in Wen County, he wanted to visit the tomb of his ancestors. Emperor Hui lost his shoes and wore the shoes of his attendants. He bowed down in tears, and the people around him also lamented.
After crossing the Yellow River, Zhang Fang led 3,000 cavalry and used Yangsuiqing chariots to greet Emperor Hui. Zhang Fang bowed down and Emperor Hui personally raised him up.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was implemented, and various rewards were given to the entourage.
On the first day of November in winter, Zhang Fang invited Emperor Hui to visit the ancestral temple and took the opportunity to kidnap Emperor Hui to Chang'an.
Zhang Fang entered the palace in his carriage, and Emperor Hui ran to the bamboo forest in the back garden to take shelter.
Zhang Fang forced Emperor Hui to get on the carriage, and twelve people from Zhonghuangmen and agitators on the left and right followed on foot. Only Lu Zhi, the supervisor of the Zhongshu, was at the side of Emperor Hui.
Zhang Fang took Emperor Hui to his military base. Emperor Hui asked Zhang Fang to prepare a vehicle to load the palace and palace treasures. The soldiers took the opportunity to rape and humiliate the palace maids, loot the palace treasures, and compete for the treasures in the palace.
All the treasures and cultural relics accumulated since the Wei and Jin Dynasties were looted.
When we walked to Xin'an, it was very cold. Emperor Hui fell off his horse and injured his foot. Shangshu Gaoguang offered him a coat to keep out the cold during the journey, and Emperor Hui greatly appreciated it.
Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, led 30,000 officials and cavalry to greet Emperor Hui at Bashang.
Sima bowed before Emperor Hui, who got out of the car and helped him up.
Take General Zhengxi's Mansion as the palace.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
唯仆射荀籓、司隶刘暾、太常郑球、河南尹周馥与其遗官在洛阳，为留台，承制行事，号为东西台焉。
丙午，留台大赦，改元复为永安。
辛丑，复皇后羊氏。
李雄僭号成都王，刘元海僭号汉王。
十二月丁亥，诏曰： 天祸晋邦，冢嗣莫继。
成都王颖自在储贰，政绩亏损，四海失望，不可承重，其以王还第。豫章王炽先帝爱子，令闻日新，四海注意，今以为皇太弟，以隆我晋邦。以司空越为太傅，与太宰颙夹辅朕躬。司徒王戎参录朝政，光禄大夫王衍为尚书左仆射。
安南将军虓、安北将军浚、平北将军腾各守本镇。
高密王简为镇南将军，领司隶校尉，权镇洛阳；东中郎将模为宁北将军、都督冀州，镇于鄴；镇南大将军刘弘领荆州，以镇南土。
周馥、缪胤各还本部，百官皆复职。
齐王冏前应还第，长沙王乂轻陷重刑，封其子绍为乐平县王，以奉其嗣。
translation: 
Only Pu She Xun Fan, Si Li Liu Tun, Taichang Zheng Qiu, Henan Yin Zhoufu and their subordinate officials stayed in Luoyang and formed Liu Tai to perform state duties on behalf of the emperor, known as East and West Tai.
On the 12th, a general amnesty was implemented in Taiwan and the Yong'an reign was restored.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Yangshi regained her status as queen.
Li Xiong assumed the title of King of Chengdu, and Liu Yuanhai assumed the title of King of Han.
On December 24th, Emperor Hui issued an edict saying: God is going to bring disaster to the Kingdom of Jin, and there will be no crown prince to inherit the throne.
Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, regards himself as his younger brother, but his political achievements are unfavorable, people all over the world are disappointed, and he cannot bear the important responsibilities of the world. He is now ordered to return the palace as the king. Sima Chi, the king of Yuzhang, is the beloved son of the late emperor, and his good reputation continues to increase. Attracted by the people all over the world, I am now designated as the emperor's younger brother to make our Jin state prosperous. Sikong Sima Yue is the Taifu, and I will assist me together with the Grand Prime Minister Sima Yong. Situ Wangrong participates in the government, and Wang Yan, the Guanglu doctor, is the minister Zuopushe.
Annan General Sima Fu, Anbei General Wang Jun, and Pingbei General Sima Teng each guarded their own towns.
Sima Jian, the king of Gaomi, was appointed as the general of Zhennan and the captain of the Sili school, and temporarily controlled Luoyang; Sima Mo, the general of Dongzhonglang, was appointed as the general of Ningbei and the governor of Jingzhou, guarding Yecheng; General Liu Hong, the general of Zhennan, was led by the herdsman of Jingzhou to guard the south.
Zhou Fu and Miao Yin each returned to their headquarters, and all officials were restored to their original posts.
King Sima Wei of Qi should have been dismissed from his post and returned to his palace. King Sima Wei of Changsha rashly sentenced him to death and made his son Sima Shao the king of Leping County as his heir.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
自顷戎车屡征，劳费人力，供御之物皆减三分之二，户调田租三分减一。
蠲除苛政，爱人务本。
清通之后，当还东京。
大赦，改元。
以河间王颙都督中外诸军事。
二年春正月甲午朔，帝在长安。
夏四月，诏封乐平王绍为齐王。
丙子，张方废皇后羊氏。
六月甲子，侍中、司徒、安丰侯王戎薨。
陇西太守韩稚攻秦州刺史张辅，杀之。
李雄僭即帝位，国号蜀。
秋七月甲午，尚书诸曹火，烧崇礼闼。
东海王越严兵徐方，将西迎大驾。
成都王颖部将公师籓等聚众攻陷郡县，害阳平太守李志、汲郡太守张延等，转攻鄴，平昌公模遣将军赵骧击破之。
八月辛丑，大赦。
骠骑将军、范阳王虓逐冀州刺史李义。
扬州刺史曹武杀丹阳太守硃建。
李雄遣其将李骧寇汉安。
translation: 
Frequent battles consume manpower, so palace expenses are reduced by two-thirds, and taxes and land rents are reduced by one-third.
Abolish tyranny, cherish the people's strength, and reward farming.
After the war subsided, he immediately returned to the Eastern Capital.
A general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, was in charge of the Chinese and foreign military affairs.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, Emperor Hui was in Chang'an.
In April of summer, Emperor Hui issued an edict to confer Sima Shao, King of Leping, as King of Qi.
On the 15th, Zhang Fang deposed Queen Yang.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, Shi Zhong, Situ, and Prince Anfeng died.
Han Zhi, the governor of Longxi, attacked Zhang Fu, the governor of Qinzhou, and killed him.
Li Xiong assumed the throne and the country was named Shu.
On the fourth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in various official offices of the Minister, and Chongli Gate was burned down.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, reorganized his troops and horses in Xuzhou and prepared to go west to meet the Holy Emperor.
Chengdu King Sima Ying's general Gongshi Fan and others gathered a crowd to capture the county, killing Li Zhi, the governor of Yangping, Zhang Yan, the governor of Jijun, and others, and then attacked Yecheng. Ma Mo of the Pingchang Company sent general Zhao Xiang to defeat Gongshi Fan.
In August of Xinchou, a general amnesty was implemented.
The hussar general Fan Yang Wang Sima You expelled the Jizhou governor Li Yi.
Cao Wu, the governor of Yangzhou, killed Zhu Jian, the prefect of Danyang.
Li Xiong sent his general Li Xiang to invade Han'an.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
车骑大将军刘弘逐平南将军、彭城王释于宛。
九月庚寅朔，公师籓又害平原太守王景、清河太守冯熊。
庚子，豫州刺史刘乔攻范阳王虓于许昌，败之。
壬子，以成都王颖为镇军大将军、都督河北诸军事，镇鄴。
河间王颙遣将军吕郎屯洛阳。
冬十月丙子，诏曰： 得豫州刺史刘乔檄，称颍川太守刘舆迫胁骠骑将军虓，距逆诏令，造构凶逆，擅劫郡县，合聚兵众，擅用苟晞为兗州，断截王命。
镇南大将军、荆州刺史刘弘，平南将军、彭城王释等，其各勒所统，径会许昌，与乔并力。
今遣右将军张方为大都督，统精卒十万，建武将军吕郎、广武将军骞貙、建威将军刁默等为军前锋，共会许昌，除舆兄弟。
丁丑，使前车骑将军石超、北中郎将王阐讨舆等。
赤气见于北方，东西竟天。
有星孛于北斗。
translation: 
Liu Hong, the general of chariots and cavalry, expelled Pingnan general Sima Shi, king of Pengcheng, from Wan.
On the first day of September, Gongshi Fan killed Wang Jing, the governor of Pingyuan, and Feng Xiong, the governor of Qinghe.
On the 11th, Liu Qiao, the governor of Yuzhou, attacked and defeated Fanyang King Sima You in Xuchang.
On the 23rd, Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was appointed as the general of the town army and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Hebei Province to guard Yecheng.
Sima Yong, king of Hejian, sent general Li Lang to garrison Luoyang.
On October 18, in winter, the emperor issued an edict saying: I received a message from Liu Qiao, the governor of Yuzhou, saying that Liu Yu, the prefect of Yingchuan, forced the hussar general Sima Jiuhu, disobeyed the edict, caused trouble, plundered counties, gathered troops, appointed Gou as the governor of Yanzhou without authorization, and blocked the emperor's order.
General Zhennan, Jingzhou Governor Liu Hong, General Pingnan, King Sima Shi of Pengcheng, etc. each commanded their respective armies and went directly to Xuchang to join forces and fight in coordination with Liu Qiao.
The right general Zhang Fang is now sent as the commander-in-chief, commanding 100,000 elite troops. Jianwu general Lu Lang, Guangwu general Qian Zhiqu, Jianwei general Diao Mo and others are the vanguard of the army, and jointly join forces with Xuchang to eliminate the Liu Yu brothers.
On the 19th, he sent former Chariot and Cavalry General Shi Chao and Beizhonglang General Wang Chan to attack Liu Yu and others.
Red gas appeared in the northern sky, reaching to the east and west horizons.
A comet appears in the Big Dipper constellation.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
平昌公模遣将军宋胄等屯河桥。
十一月，立节将军周权诈被檄，自称平西将军，复皇后羊氏。
洛阳令何乔攻权，杀之，复废皇后。
十二月，吕朗等东屯荥阳，成都王颖进据洛阳，张方、刘弘等并桉兵不能御。
范阳王虓济自官渡，拔荥阳，斩石超，袭许昌，破刘乔于萧，乔奔南阳。
右将军陈敏举兵反，自号楚公，矫称被中诏，从沔汉奉迎天子；逐扬州刺史刘机、丹杨太守王旷；遣弟恢南略江州，刺史应邈奔弋阳。
光熙元年春正月戊子朔，日有蚀之。
帝在长安。河间王颙闻刘乔破，大惧，遂杀张方，请和于东海王越，越不听。
宋胄等破颖将楼裒，进逼洛阳，颖奔长安。
甲子，越遣其将祁弘、宋胄、司马纂等迎帝。
三月，东莱惤令刘柏根反，自称惤公，袭临淄，高密王简奔聊城。
王浚遣将讨柏根，斩之。
夏四月己巳，东海王越屯于温。
颙遣弘农太守彭随、北地太守刁默距祁弘等于湖。
五月，枉矢西南流。
范阳国地燃，可以爨。
壬辰，祁弘等与刁默战，默大败，颙、颍走南山，奔于宛。
弘等所部鲜卑大掠长安，杀二万余人。
是日，日光四散，赤如血。
translation: 
Ma Mo of Pingchang Company sent General Song Zhou and others to garrison Heqiao.
In November, Lijie General Zhou Quan falsely claimed that he had received a petition to punish the thief, and called himself General Pingxi, restoring the Yang family to the status of queen.
Luoyang ordered He Qiao to attack Zhou Quan, kill him, and depose the queen.
In December, Lu Lang and others marched eastward to garrison Xingyang. Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, marched to occupy Luoyang. Zhang Fang, Liu Hong and others were unable to resist.
Sima Jiuhu, the king of Fanyang, crossed the Yellow River from Guan, conquered Xingyang, beheaded Shi Chao, attacked Xuchang, defeated Liu Qiao in Xiao, and Liu Qiao fled to Nanyang.
The right general Chen Min rebelled and called himself Duke of Chu. Pretending to be ordered by the emperor, he went north from Mianhan to meet the emperor. He expelled Liu Ji, the governor of Yangzhou, and Wang Kuang, the prefect of Danyang. He sent his younger brother Chen Hui south to occupy Jiangzhou. Yingmiao, the governor of Jiangzhou, fled to Yiyang.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Guangxi, there was a solar eclipse. Emperor Hui was in Chang'an.
Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, was very frightened when he heard that Liu Qiao was defeated. He immediately killed Zhang Fang and asked for reconciliation with Sima Yue, the king of East China Sea, but Sima Yue refused.
Song Zhou and others defeated Sima Ying's general Lou Pei's army and advanced to Luoyang. Sima Ying fled to Chang'an.
On the day of Jiazi, Sima Yue sent his generals Qi Hong, Song Zhou, Sima Zuan and others to greet Emperor Hui.
In March, Donglai Jinxian ordered Liu Baogen to rebel, calling himself Jinxian Gong, and attacked Linzi. Gaomi King Sima Jian fled to Liaocheng.
Wang Jun sent his generals to attack and kill Liu Baogen.
On the 13th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, stationed troops in Wen.
Sima sent Peng Sui, the prefect of Hongnong, and Diao Mo, the prefect of Beidi, to resist Qi Hong and others at the lake.
In May, the Wandering Star moves southwestward.
The land of Fanyang is burning and can be used for cooking.
On the seventh day, Qi Hong and others fought with Diao Mo, and Diao Mo was defeated. Sima Yong and Sima Ying fled into Nanshan and defected to Wan.
The Xianbei people led by Qi Hong and others looted Chang'an and killed more than 20,000 people.
On this day, the sun was scattered in all directions, and its color was as red as blood.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
甲午又如之。
己亥，弘等奉帝还洛阳，帝乘牛车，行宫藉草，公卿跋涉。
戊申，骠骑、范阳王虓杀司隶校尉刑乔。
己酉，盗取太庙金匮及策文各四。
六月丙辰朔，至自长安，升旧殿，哀感流涕。
谒于太庙。
复皇后羊氏。
辛未，大赦，改元。
秋七月乙酉朔，日有蚀之。
太庙吏贾苞盗太庙灵衣及剑，伏诛。
八月，以太傅、东海王越录尚书，骠骑将军、范阳王虓为司空。
九月，顿丘太守冯嵩执成都王颖，送之于鄴。
进东嬴公腾爵为车燕王，平昌公模为南阳王。
冬十月，司空、范阳王虓薨。
虓长史刘舆害成都王颖。
十一月庚午，帝崩于显阳殿，时年四十八，葬太阳陵。
帝之为太子也，朝廷咸知不堪政事，武帝亦疑焉。
translation: 
On the 9th, it was the same again.
On the 14th, Qi Hong and others escorted Emperor Hui back to Luoyang. Emperor Hui rode in an ox cart and slept on a straw bed when staying in the palace, while the ministers walked on foot.
On the 23rd, Hussar General Fan Yang Wang Sima Jiuhu killed Sili Colonel Xing Qiao.
On the 24th, thieves stole four golden cabinets and four documents from the Ancestral Temple.
On the first day of June, Emperor Hui and his ministers arrived in Luoyang. Emperor Hui ascended to the old palace and couldn't help crying.
Visit the Ancestral Temple.
Restore the position of Queen Yang.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse.
Jia Bao, an official of the Imperial Ancestral Temple, stole the spiritual robe and sword of the Imperial Ancestral Temple and was executed.
In August, Sima Yue, the Grand Tutor of the East China Sea, was appointed Minister, and Sima Jiuhu, the General of the Hussars and Fanyang, was appointed Sikong.
In September, Feng Song, the governor of Dunqiu, arrested Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, and escorted him to Yecheng.
Ma Teng of Dongying Company was promoted to King of Dongyan, and Ma Mo of Pingchang Company was promoted to King of Nanyang.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jiuhu, the king of Sikong Fanyang, died.
Liu Yu, the chief historian of Sima Jiuhu, killed Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu.
On November 18, Emperor Hui died in Xianyang Hall at the age of 48 and was buried in Taiyang Mausoleum.
When Emperor Hui was the crown prince, all the ministers in the court knew that he was not qualified for world affairs, and Emperor Wu also had doubts about him.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
尝悉召东宫官属，使以尚书事令太子决之，帝不能对。
贾妃遣左右代对，多引古义。
给事张泓曰： 太子不学，陛下所知，今宜以事断，不可引书。
妃从之。
泓乃具草，令帝书之。
武帝览而大悦，太子遂安。
及居大位，政出群下，纲纪大坏，货赂公行，势位之家，以贵陵物，忠贤路绝，谗邪得志，更相荐举，天下谓之互市焉。
高平王沈作《释时论》，南阳鲁褒作《钱神论》，庐江杜嵩作《任子春秋》，皆疾时之作也。
帝文尝在华林园，闻虾蟆声，谓左右曰： 此鸣者为官乎，私乎？
或对曰： 在官地为官，在私地为私。
及天下荒乱，百姓饿死，帝曰： 何不食肉糜？
其蒙蔽皆此类也。
后因食饼中毒而崩，或云司马越之鸩。
史臣曰：不才之子，则天称大，权非帝出，政迩宵人。
褒姒共叔带并兴，襄后与犬戎俱运。
translation: 
Once, the officials of the East Palace were gathered together and asked the prince to decide on the government affairs of the minister, but the prince could not answer.
Concubine Jia sent her trusted aide to answer the question on the prince's behalf, quoting many scriptures.
Zhang Hong said to Concubine Jia: Your Majesty knows that the prince does not like to study. Today, you should answer questions based on the facts and do not quote ancient books.
Concubine Jia agreed with this opinion.
So Zhang Hong was asked to draft an answer sheet and the prince copied it and submitted it.
Emperor Wu was overjoyed after seeing it, and the prince's status was stabilized.
After he came to the throne, all major affairs of the state were in the hands of ministers, discipline was corrupted, bribery was common, powerful families used their nobles to dominate others, the path of loyalty and virtue was cut off, those who slandered and evil succeeded, and those who succeeded were recommended to each other. People all over the world called it "mutual market".
Wang Chen from Gaoping wrote "Shi Shi Lun", Lu Bao from Nanyang wrote "Qian Shen Lun", and Du Song from Lujiang wrote "Ren Zi Chun Qiu", all of which are cynical works.
Emperor Hui once visited Hualin Garden and heard the croaking of frogs. He asked his attendants, "Are they croaking like this for official business or for private matters?"
Someone answered: In public it is for business, in private it is private.
Later, there was war and famine in the world, and many people starved to death. Emperor Hui said: They have no food, why don't they eat meat?
Emperor Hui was confused and mostly like this.
Emperor Hui died of poisoning from eating pancakes. Some people say it was Sima Yue who poisoned him.
Shi Chen said: When an unworthy son ascends to the throne, the imperial power falls away, and those in power become close to villains.
Bao Si and his uncle had the same fortune, and Empress Xiang and Quan Rong had the same fortune.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
昔者，丹硃不肖，赧王逃责，相彼凶德，事关休咎，方乎土梗，以坠其情。
溽暑之气将阑，淫蛙之音罕记，乃彰蚩笑，用符颠陨。
岂通才俊彦犹形于前代，增淫助虐独擅于当今者欤？
物号忠良，于兹拔本，人称袄孽，自此疏源。
长乐不祥，承华非命，生灵版荡，社稷丘墟。
古者败国亡身，分镳共轸，不有乱常，则多庸暗。
岂明神丧其精魄，武皇不知其子也！
赞曰：惠皇居尊，临朝听言。
厥体斯昧，其情则昏。
高台望子，长夜奚冤。
金墉毁冕，汤阴释胄，及尔皆亡，滔天来遘。
translation: 
In the past, Danzhu was unworthy and King Nan evaded responsibility. Judging from their ugly virtues, things were related to good or bad luck, just like clay sculptures of people who lost their feelings.
When the hot and humid heat is coming to an end, sexual pleasures are rarely recorded. These things can only attract ridicule and subvert the country.
Could it be that talented and talented people only appeared in the past generations, while adulterous and evil people only appear today?
The loyal people disappeared completely, while the evil people kept appearing.
The Queen Mother is in trouble, the Prince dies suddenly; the people are in turmoil, and the country is in ruins.
Since ancient times, countries have been defeated and their lives have been destroyed. Although the methods are different, the reasons are the same. Either they violate the rules and regulations, or they are political darkness.
Could it be that the gods have lost their discernment and Emperor Wu does not understand his descendants?
Zanri: Emperor Hui ascended the throne and took charge of the government.
He himself is very confused, and he does not understand the national conditions.
Being imprisoned on a high platform, longing for his son, the injustice was hard to redress during the long night.
In Jin Yong lost his throne, in Dangyin he was disarmed. When they are all dead, it will be a huge disaster.


