Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 4, 5, 8, 9, 14, 15]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
袁绍袁绍字本初，汝南阳人，司徒汤之孙。
父成，五官中郎将，壮健好交结，大将军梁冀以下莫不善之。
绍少为郎，除濮阳长，遭母忧去官。
三年礼竟，追感幼孤，又行父服。
服阕，徙居洛阳。
绍有姿貌威容，爱士养名。
既累世台司，宾客所归，加倾心折节，莫不争赴其庭，士无贵贱，与之抗礼，辎軿柴毂，填接街陌。
内官皆恶之。
中常侍赵忠言于省内曰： 袁本初坐作声价，好养死士，不知此兒终欲何作。
叔父太傅隗闻而呼绍，以忠言责之，绍终不改。
后辟大将军何进掾，为侍御史、虎贲中郎将。
中平五年，初置西园八校尉，以绍为佐军校尉。
灵帝崩，绍劝何进征董卓等众军，胁太后诛诸宦官，转绍司隶校尉。
语已见《何进传》。
及卓将兵至，骑都尉太山鲍信说绍曰： 董卓拥制强兵，将有异志，今不早图，必为所制。
及其新至疲劳，袭之可禽也。
绍畏卓，不敢发。
顷之，卓议欲废立，谓绍曰： 天下之主，宜得贤明，每念灵帝，令人愤毒。
董侯似可，今当立之。
绍曰： 今上富于春秋，未有不善宣于天下。若公违礼任情，废嫡立庶，恐众议未安。
卓案剑吆绍曰： 竖子敢然！
天下之事，岂不在我？
我欲为之，谁敢不从！
绍诡对曰： 此国之大事，请出与太傅议之 。
卓复言 刘氏种不足复遗。
绍勃然曰： 天下健者，岂惟董公！
横刀长揖径出。
translation: 
◆Yuan Shao Zhuan, Yuan Shao, courtesy name Benchu, was born in Ruyang, Runan, and was the grandson of Situ Yuan Tang.
Yuan Shao's father, Yuan Cheng, had served as a lieutenant general with five senses. He was physically strong and liked to make friends. From the time of the great general Liang Ji, he was always friends with him.
Yuan Shao served as a Langguan when he was young, and was later appointed as the Chief of Puyang. When his mother died, he resigned from the official position.
After serving three years of funeral service, Yuan Shao recalled and lamented that he had lost his father since childhood and had to attend the funeral service for his father.
After the mourning period expired, he moved to Luoyang.
Yuan Shao was elegant, beautiful, kind to others, and focused on reputation.
Yuan Shao's ancestors had served as three ministers for generations, and the guests came to join him. In addition, Yuan Shao lowered his status to befriend him, so all the scholars rushed to join him. Regardless of whether the scholars who came were high or low, Yuan Shaoyu and others were equal in etiquette. Various vehicles of visiting guests crowded the streets and alleys.
The courtiers around the emperor were disgusted with him.
Zhongchang Shi Zaozhong said in the ban: Yuan Benchu ​​does things to enhance his reputation and value, and likes to raise people who are not afraid of death. I don't know what this kid wants to do!
After hearing this, Yuan Shao's uncle Taifu Yuan Wei called Yuan Shao and reprimanded him with the words of Zhong Zhong, but Yuan Shao never changed.
Later, Yuan Shao was summoned by General He Jin as a subordinate officer and served as Shi Yushi and Huben Zhonglang General.
In the fifth year of Zhongping, the imperial court began to set up eight Xiyuan captains and appointed Yuan Shao as the assistant military captain.
When Emperor Ling died, Yuan Shao persuaded He Jin to recruit Dong Zhuo and other troops and coerced the Queen Mother to kill all the eunuchs. He Jin transferred Yuan Shao to serve as the captain of the Sili school.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of He Jin".
When Dong Zhuo led his army to the capital, Bao Xin, the cavalry captain from Taishan, persuaded Yuan Shao: If Dong Zhuo controls a powerful army, he will have the intention of rebelling. If we don't deal with it early, we will definitely be controlled by Dong Zhuo.
When Dong Zhuo had just arrived and the soldiers were tired, they attacked Dong Zhuo and captured him.
Yuan Shao was afraid of Dong Zhuo and did not dare to send troops.
Soon, Dong Zhuo discussed deposing the emperor and establishing a new emperor. He said to Yuan Shao: The monarch who rules the world should find a wise person. Every time I think of Emperor Ling, it makes me angry.
Marquis Dong seems to be okay, and he should be made emperor now.
Yuan Shao said: "The emperor is young now and has done nothing wrong to spread the news to the world. If you ignore etiquette and follow your own desires, abolish your legitimate heir and establish your concubine as emperor, I am afraid that everyone will not think it is appropriate."
Dong Zhuo put his sword in his hand and scolded Yuan Shao angrily, saying: How dare you talk like this!
Don’t I have the final say in everything in the world?
I want to do this, who dares to disobey!
Yuan Shao replied wittily: This is a national matter. Please go outside to discuss it with the Taifu.
Dong Zhuo also said: There are not enough descendants of the Liu family to keep.
Yuan Shao was furious and said: "You are the only one who is tyrannical in the world, Dong Gong!"
He laid out his sword, bowed to the end, and walked out.
summary:
Yuan Shao, courtesy name Benchu, was from Ruyang, Runan, and the grandson of Situ Yuan Tang. His father Yuan Cheng served as a lieutenant general. Yuan Shao began his career as a Langguan and later became Chief of Puyang. After his mother's death, he resigned to observe mourning, and later also mourned his father. He then moved to Luoyang, where his elegant demeanor and generosity attracted many scholars, leading to resentment from court eunuchs. His uncle Yuan Wei reprimanded him, but Yuan Shao did not change his ways. Yuan Shao served under General He Jin as a subordinate officer and later as Colonel of the Eight Xiuyuan. After Emperor Ling's death, he advised He Jin to eliminate the eunuchs, but He Jin was killed. When Dong Zhuo arrived, Yuan Shao opposed his plan to depose the young emperor. After a heated argument, Yuan Shao fled to Jizhou. Dong Zhuo initially offered a reward for his capture but later pardoned him and appointed him Governor of Bohai and Marquis of Yunxiang.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
悬节于上东门，而奔冀州。
董卓购募求绍。
时，侍中周珌、城门校尉伍琼为卓所信待，琼等阴为绍说卓曰： 夫废立大事，非常人所及。
袁绍不达大体，恐惧出奔，非有它志。
今急购之，势必为变。
袁氏树恩四世，门生故吏遍于天下，若收豪杰以聚徒众，英雄因之而起，则山东非公之有也。
不如赦之，拜一郡守，绍喜于免罪，必无患矣。
卓以为然，乃遣授绍勃海太守，封邟乡侯。
绍犹称兼司隶。
初平元年，绍遂以勃海起兵，与从弟后将军术、冀州牧韩馥、豫州刺史孔亻由、兗州刺史刘岱、陈留太守张邈、广陵太守张超、河内太守王匡、山阳太守袁遗、东郡太守桥瑁、济北相鲍信等同时俱起，众各数万，以讨卓为名。
绍与王匡屯河内，亻由屯颍川，馥屯鄴，余军咸屯酸枣，约盟，遥推绍为盟主。
绍自号车骑将军，领司隶校尉。
董卓闻绍起山东，乃诛绍叔父隗，及宗族在京师者，尽灭之。
卓乃遣大鸿胪韩融、少府阴循、执金吾胡母班、将作大匠吴循、越骑校尉王瑰譬解绍等诸军。
绍使王匡杀班、王瓖、吴循等，袁术亦执杀阴循，惟韩融以名德免。
是时，豪杰既多附招，且感其家祸，人思为报，州郡蜂起，莫不以袁氏为名。
韩馥见人情归绍。忌其得众，恐将图己，常遣从事守绍门，不听发兵。
桥瑁乃诈作三公移书，传驿州郡，说董卓罪恶，天子危逼，企望义兵，以释国难。
馥于是方听绍举兵。
乃谋于众曰： 助袁氏乎？
助董氏乎？
治中刘惠勃然曰： 兴兵为国，安问袁！董？
馥意犹深疑于绍，每贬节军粮，欲使离散。
明年，馥将麹义反畔，馥与战失利。
绍既恨馥，乃与义相结。
绍客逢纪谓绍曰： 夫举大事，非据一州，无以自立。
translation: 
He hung the talisman on the upper door and fled to Jizhou.
Dong Zhuo offered a reward for Yuan Shao's capture.
At that time, Secretary Zhou and Wu Qiong, the captain of the city gate school, were trusted by Dong Zhuo. Wu Qiong and others secretly interceded for Yuan Shao and persuaded Dong Zhuo: The important matter of deposing and establishing the emperor is not something ordinary people can participate in.
Yuan Shao didn't understand the overall situation and ran away in fear, not because he had other ideas.
Now the rush to put a reward on him will inevitably lead to sudden changes.
The four generations of the Yuan family have been generous and generous, and their disciples and former subordinates are all over the world. Once you recruit heroes, gather soldiers, and heroes rise, I am afraid that Taihang Shandong will no longer belong to you.
It is better to pardon Yuan Shao and make him a county guard. Yuan Shao will be happy to see that he is exempted from guilt, and there will be no disaster.
Dong Zhuo thought it was reasonable, so he sent someone to grant Yuan Shao the position of governor of Bohai and named him Marquis of Yunxiang.
In name, Yuan Shao also served as Sili Xiaowei.
In the first year of Chuping, Yuan Shao finally raised troops in Bohai. He and his cousin General Yuan Shu, Jizhou Mu Han Fu, Yuzhou Governor Kong Dian, Yanzhou Governor Liu Dai, Chenliu Governor Zhang Miao, Guangling Governor The governor Zhang Chao, the governor of Hanoi Wang Kuang, the governor of Shanyang Yuan Qian, the governor of Dongjun Qiao Mao, the prime minister of Jibei Bao Xin and others raised troops at the same time, with tens of thousands of troops each, under the banner of crusade against Dong Zhuo.
Yuan Shao and Wang Kuang were stationed in Hanoi, Kong Dian was stationed in Yingchuan, Han Fu was stationed in Ye County, and other armies were stationed in Suanzao, and they agreed to form an alliance, nominally recommending Yuan Shao as the leader of the alliance.
Yuan Shao claimed to be a general of chariots and cavalry, and was the commander of the Sili school.
When Dong Zhuo learned that Yuan Shao had raised troops in Shandong, he killed Yuan Shao's uncle Yuan Wei and all the Yuan clan in the capital.
Dong Zhuo then sent Da Honglu Han Rong, Shaofu Yin Xun, Zhi Jin Wu Hu Muban, General Wu Xun, the great craftsman, and Yue Qi Xiaowei Wang Quan to advise Yuan Shao and other armies.
Yuan Shao assigned Wang Kuang to kill Hu Muban, Wang Quan, Wu Xun and others. Yuan Shu also hunted and killed Yin Xun, but Han Rong was spared because of his high moral character and prestige.
When he was dispatched, most of the heroes joined Yuan Shao, and because his family was moved by the suffering, everyone wanted to avenge him, so troops from all prefectures and counties swarmed up, all under the banner of the Yuan family.
When Han Fu saw that people were turning to Yuan Shao, he was jealous of Yuan Shao's support and was afraid that he would use it against him. He often sent officers to guard Yuan Shao's gates to prevent him from sending troops.
Qiao Mao then pretended to be the Third Duke and sent documents to the prefectures and counties through the post, telling Dong Zhuo's crimes. The emperor was threatened and was in danger. He stood on tiptoe and hoped that the volunteers would eliminate the national disaster.
Han Fu then agreed with Yuan Shao to send troops.
Then Han Fu discussed with everyone and said: Are you helping the Yuan family?
Or help Dong?
During the war, Liu Hui said angrily: "The troops are sent for the sake of the country, so why should we take care of the Yuan family and the Dong family?"
However, Han Fu was still suspicious of Yuan Shao and often reduced military rations in an attempt to shake the morale of the army.
The next year, Han Fu's general Qu Yi rebelled. Han Fu fought with Qu Yi and lost.
Since Yuan Shao resented Han Fu, he befriended Qu Yi.
Yuan Shao's guests said to Yuan Shao at the right time: If you do a big business and don't occupy a state, you won't be able to gain a foothold.
summary:
In the first year of Chuping, Yuan Shao raised troops in Bohai, joining forces with Yuan Shu, Han Fu, and others to crusade against Dong Zhuo. They formed an alliance with Yuan Shao as leader. Dong Zhuo killed Yuan Shao's uncle and clan members in the capital. Yuan Shao then took control of Jizhou from Han Fu through a combination of military pressure and persuasion, becoming its governor. He appointed Ju Shou as his advisor and expanded his territory.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
绍脱兜鍪抵地，曰： 大丈夫当前斗死，而反逃垣墙间邪？
促使诸弩竞发，多伤瓚骑。
众不知是绍，颇稍引却。
会曲义来迎，骑乃散退。
三年，瓚又遣兵至龙凑挑战，绍复击破之。
瓚遂还幽州，不敢复出。
四年初，天子遣太仆赵岐和解关东，使各罢兵。
瓚因此以书譬绍曰： 赵太仆以周、邵之德，衔命来征，宣扬朝恩，示以和睦，旷若开云见日，何喜如之！
昔贾复、寇恂争相危害，遇世祖解纷，遂同舆并出。衅难既释，时人美之。
自惟边鄙，得与将军共同斯好，此诚将军之眷，而瓚之愿也。
绍于是引军南还。
三月上已，大会宾徒于薄落津。
闻魏郡兵反，与黑山贼干毒等数万人共覆鄴城，杀郡守。坐中客家在鄴者，皆忧怖失色，或起而啼泣，绍容貌自若，不敢常度。
贼有陶升者，自号 平汉将军 ，独反诸贼，将部众逾西城入，闭府门，具车重，载绍家及诸衣冠在州内者，身自扞卫，送到斥丘。
绍还，因屯斥丘，以陶升为建义中郎将。
六月，绍乃出军，入朝歌鹿肠山苍岩谷口，讨干毒。
围攻五日，破之，斩毒及其众万余级。
绍遂寻山北行，进击诸贼左髭丈八等，皆斩之，又击刘石、青牛角、黄龙、左校、郭大贤、李大目、于氐根等，复斩数万级，皆屠其屯壁。
遂与黑山贼张燕及四营屠各、雁门乌桓战于常山。
燕精兵数万，骑数千匹，连战十余日，燕兵死伤虽多，绍军亦疲，遂各退。
曲义自恃有功，骄纵不轨，绍召杀之，而并其众。
兴平二年，拜绍右将军。
其冬，车驾为李傕等所追于曹阳，沮授说绍曰： 将军累叶台辅，世济忠义。
translation: 
Yuan Shao took off his helmet and threw it to the ground, saying: "A real man should go forward and die in battle, why do you run into the wall and wrap your face instead?"
He urged the archers to shoot arrows and injured many of Gongsun Zan's cavalry.
Gongsun Zan's men didn't know it was Yuan Shao, so many of them gradually retreated.
Just as Qu Yi came to greet Yuan Shao, Gongsun Zan's cavalry retreated.
Three years later, Gongsun Zan sent troops to challenge Longcuo again, and Yuan Shao defeated Gongsun Zan again.
Gongsun Zan then returned to Youzhou and did not dare to come out again.
At the beginning of the fourth year, the emperor sent his servant Zhao Qi to mediate the Kanto troops and asked them to stop their troops.
Gongsun Zan took this opportunity to write a letter to Yuan Shao, saying: The servant has the virtue and prestige of Zhou Gong and Shao Gong. He has been commissioned to come quickly to spread the grace of the imperial court. He wants us to live in harmony and be as bright as the sun after setting aside the dark clouds. What could be more gratifying than this?
In the past, Jia Fu and Kou Xun were quarreling to harm each other. When Shizu mediated the dispute, they finally came out in the same car. After the rift and hatred were eliminated, people at that time praised them.
I consider that I am a remote and humble person, and I can be friendly with the general. This is indeed humiliating to the general, but it is my wish.
Yuan Shao led his army back south.
On the first day of March, Yuan Shao gathered his guests and subordinates at Boluojin.
When they learned that the soldiers of Wei County had rebelled and that they, together with the Black Mountain bandit Kou Yudu and tens of thousands of others, captured Ye City and killed the county guard, all the guests who lived in Ye County were worried and frightened. Some stood up and cried. However, Yuan Shao's face did not change, as if nothing had happened, and he did not lose his usual demeanor.
There was a thief named Tao Sheng, who called himself "General Pinghan" and rebelled against other thieves alone. He led his troops over the city wall from the west and entered the city, sealed off the county government, loaded the baggage into the car, and used the car to personally escort Yuan Shao's family and the families of other officials who lived in Jizhou City to Cuiqiu.
After Yuan Shao returned, he stationed himself at Cuiqiu and appointed Tao Sheng as the general of Jianyi Zhonglang.
In June, Yuan Shao then sent troops into the entrance of Cangyan Valley in Luchang Mountain, Chaoge, to attack Yu Du.
After a five-day siege, Yu Du was defeated and more than 10,000 Yu Du and his followers were killed.
Then Yuan Shao went north along Luchang Mountain to attack Zuo Zhuozhangba and other thieves, and wiped them all out. He also attacked Liu Shi, Qing Niujiao, Huang Long, Zuo Xiao, Guo Daxian, Li Damu, Yu Digen and others, killing tens of thousands again and destroying all their fortresses.
Then he fought with Zhang Yan, the Black Mountain bandit, the fourth battalion of the Xiongnu Tu various tribes, and Wuhuan of Yanmen in Changshan.
Zhang Yan had tens of thousands of elite soldiers and thousands of cavalry. The two sides fought continuously for more than ten days. Although Zhang Yan's army suffered many casualties, Yuan Shao's army was also exhausted, so they retreated.
Qu Yi relied on his military exploits, pride and indulgence, and disobedience to the law. Yuan Shao summoned him, killed him, and merged his troops.
In the second year of Xingping, the emperor appointed Yuan Shao as the right general.
In the winter of this year, the emperor was pursued by Li Ji and others in Caoyang. Jushou persuaded Yuan Shao: "The general has served as the prime minister of the court for generations, and has assisted the country with loyalty throughout the ages."
summary:
Yuan Shao defeated Gongsun Zan in battle, killing Yan Gang and pursuing him to the boundary bridge. Despite a near-capture by Gongsun Zan's cavalry, Yuan Shao's forces prevailed. He later suppressed rebellions in Wei County and defeated the Black Mountain bandits, killing tens of thousands. Yuan Shao also killed his general Qu Yi for insubordination.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
今朝廷播越，宗庙残毁，观诸州郡，虽外托义兵，内实相图，未有忧存社稷恤人之意。
且今州城粗定，兵强士附，西迎大驾，即宫鄴都，挟天子而令诸侯，稸士马以讨不庭，谁能御之？
绍将从其计。
颍川郭图、淳于琼曰： 汉室陵迟，为日久矣，今欲兴之，不亦难乎？
且英雄并起，各据州郡，连徒聚众，动有万计，所谓秦失其鹿，先得者王。
今迎天子，动辄表闻，从之则权轻，违之则拒命，非计之善者也。
授曰： 今迎朝廷，于义为得，于时为宜。
若不早定，必有先之者焉。
夫权不失几，功不猒速，愿其图之。
帝立既非绍意，竟不能从。
绍有三子：谭字显思、熙字显雍、尚字显甫。
谭长而惠，尚少而美。
绍后妻刘有宠，而偏爱尚，数称于绍，绍亦奇其姿容，欲使传嗣。
乃以谭继兄后，出为青州刺史。
沮授谏曰： 世称万人逐兔，一人获之，贪者悉止，分定故也。
且年均以贤，德均则卜，古之制也。
愿上惟先代成败之诫，下思逐兔分定之义。
若其不改，祸始此矣。
绍曰： 吾欲令诸子各据一州，以视其能。
于是以中子熙为幽州刺史，处甥高为并州刺史。
建安元年，曹操迎天子都许，乃下诏书于绍，责以地广兵多而专自树党，不闻勤王之师而但擅相讨伐。
translation: 
Now the emperor is wandering around and the ancestral temple is destroyed, but if you look at the states and counties, although they appear to be volunteers on the outside, they are actually thinking about each other in their hearts, and they have no worries about the country and the interests of the people.
Moreover, the city of Jizhou was generally pacified, the army was strong, and the scholars returned, went west to meet the emperor, used Ye County as the imperial palace, held the emperor hostage and ordered the princes, raised troops and horses to attack those who did not worship the royal court, who could resist?
Yuan Shao was ready to follow Ju Shou's plan.
The wise men Guo Tu and Chunyu Qiong said: The royal family of the Han Dynasty declined for a long time. Isn’t it too difficult to revitalize the royal family now?
Besides, heroes rise up at the same time, occupy states and counties separately, and unite to gather followers, often tens of thousands of them. This is just like the Qin Dynasty who lost the throne and the person who got it first became the emperor.
Now that the emperor has been brought in, he has to write to the emperor at every turn. If you obey, you will have too little power. If you don't obey, you will be disobeying the emperor's order. This is not a good approach.
Jushu said: It is morally reasonable and the timing is appropriate to bring the emperor in now.
If you don't decide early, someone else will be there to greet you first.
Don't lose the opportunity to make a contingency, and don't be too quick to succeed. I hope you will consider it.
The emperor's ascension was not in line with Yuan Shao's wishes, so Yuan Shao did not accept it.
Yuan Shao had three sons: Shei Tan, whose courtesy name was Xiansi, Yuan Xi, whose courtesy name was Xian Yong, and Yuan Shang, whose courtesy name was Xianfu.
Yuan Tan is older and wiser, while Yuan Shang is younger but more beautiful.
Sai Niu's step-wife type overwhelms Zhi Cheng and dotes on her. She prefers Tong Yao and praises him many times in front of Zhi Cheng. Sai Niu is also amazed by Zhi Cheng's appearance and wants him to succeed him.
So Yuan Shao adopted Yuan Tan as his brother's descendant and sent him to be the governor of Qingzhou.
Jushou dissuaded him and said: "It has always been said that if ten thousand people chase a rabbit, one person will get the rabbit, and all the others who want to get it will give up. This is because their status has been determined."
Besides, if they are similar in age, it depends on who is talented and virtuous, and if they are similar in moral character, it depends on the results of divination. This is an ancient system.
I hope you will consider the warnings of the successes and failures of previous generations on a large scale, and consider the principles of chasing rabbits and determining one's status on a small scale.
If you don't change it, this is where the disaster begins.
Yuan Shao said: I want the children to govern a state each so that their talents can be seen.
So: Chu appointed his second son Zhisai as the governor of Youye, and his nephew Zhibi as the governor of Bingzhou.
In the first year of Jian'an, Cao Cao welcomed the emperor and established his capital in Xu County. He then issued an edict to Yuan Shao, blaming him for having a vast land and a large army, and for always forming cliques for himself. He had never heard of sending troops to rescue the emperor, but he attacked others without permission.
summary:
When Emperor Xian was in danger, Ju Shou advised Yuan Shao to welcome the emperor, but Yuan Shao hesitated due to advice from Guo Tu and Chunyu Qiong. He eventually declined. Yuan Shao had three sons: Yuan Tan, Yuan Xi, and Yuan Shang. He favored Yuan Shang due to his wife's influence, adopting Yuan Tan as his brother's heir and sending him to Qingzhou, against Ju Shou's warnings.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣爵为通侯，位二千石。
殊恩厚德，臣既叨之，岂敢窥觊重礼，以希彤弓矢之命哉？
诚伤偏裨列校，勤不见纪，尽忠为国，翻成重愆。
斯蒙恬所以悲号于边狱，白起歔欷于杜邮也。
太傅日磾位为师保，任配东征，而耗乱王命，宠任非所，凡所举用，皆众所捐弃。
而容纳其策，以为谋主，令臣骨肉兄弟，还为仇敌，交锋接刃，构难滋甚。
臣虽欲释甲投戈，事不得已。
诚恐陛下日月之明，有所不照，四聪之听，有所不闻，乞下臣章，咨之群贤，使三槐九棘，议臣罪戾。
若以臣今行权为衅，则桓、文当有诛绝之则；若以众不讨贼为贤，则赵盾可无书弑援贬矣。
臣虽小人，志守一介。
若使得申明本心，不愧先帝，则伏首欧刀，褰衣就镬，臣之愿也。
惟陛下垂《尸鸠》之平，绝邪谄之论，无令愚臣结恨三泉。
于是以绍为太尉，封鄴侯。
时曹操自为大将军，绍耻为之下，伪表辞不受。
操大惧，乃让位于绍。
二年，使将作大匠孔融持节拜绍大将军，锡弓矢节钺，虎贲百人，兼督冀、青、幽、并四州，然后受之。
绍每得诏书，患有不便于己，乃欲移天子自近，使说操以许下埤湿，洛阳残破，宜徙都甄城，以就全实。
操拒之。
田丰说绍曰： 徙都之计，既不克从，宜早图许，奉迎天子，动托诏令，响号海内，此算之上者。
不尔，终为人所禽，虽悔无益也。
绍不从。
translation: 
The minister's title is Chehou, and his salary is two thousand dan.
I have already been greedy for special favors and rich reputation. Do you dare to covet the court's gifts and hope to get Tong Gong's orders?
It really hurts that the hard work of the general and colonel was not recorded, and it turned out to be a great sin to be loyal to the country.
This is the reason why Meng Tian cried bitterly in the border prison and Bai Qi lamented and shed tears in Du You.
Taifu Ma Ribei was the official guardian and was responsible for the Eastern Expedition. However, he disrupted the emperor's mission. The people he favored and appointed were all unqualified. All the people he selected and appointed were abandoned by everyone.
However, he adopted the strategies of these people and used them as his masterminds, turning his brothers and sisters into enemies, causing swordsmen to fight against each other, and the disasters caused became more and more serious.
Although I want to take off my armor and throw away my spear, the matter cannot end.
I am indeed worried that your majesty’s radiance, which is as bright as the sun and the moon, may not shine in some places; your majesty’s ears may hear the clear observations from all directions, but there may be situations where you cannot hear them. I request your majesty to send the memorial to the ministers, ask all the wise ministers about the situation, and let the three ministers and nine ministers discuss the crimes committed by the ministers.
If it were regarded as a crime for ministers to change their authority, then Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin should be sentenced to death; if it was regarded as virtuous that everyone did not attack the bandits, then there would be no need to write the derogatory word "regicide" on the shield.
Although I am an ordinary person, I am determined to maintain integrity.
If you can make your ministers express their sincerity and be worthy of the late emperor, then even if they lower their heads to use the torture knife or lift their clothes to use the soup pot, they will be willing to do so.
Your Majesty, please pay attention to the meaning of equality in "Corpse Dove", avoid flattery remarks, and do not make your ministers resentful.
So the imperial court appointed Yuan Shao as Taiwei and granted him the title of Marquis of Ye.
At that time, Cao Cao himself served as the general. Yuan Shao felt ashamed of being under Cao Cao and deliberately wrote a letter of resignation to the emperor and refused to accept it.
Cao Cao was very scared and gave up the position of general to Yuan Shao.
In the second year of Jian'an, the emperor sent the great craftsman Kong Rong to hold the emperor's talisman to grant Yuan Shao the position of general. He also gave him bows and arrows, talismans, axes and irons, and a hundred tigers and swords. He was asked to take charge of the four states of Jizhou, Qingzhou, Youzhou and Bingzhou. Yuan Shao accepted the appointment.
Every time Yuan Shao received an imperial edict, he was always worried that it would be detrimental to him, so he wanted the emperor to move closer to him. He sent people to tell Cao Cao that Xu County was low-lying and humid, and Luoyang was incomplete and ruined. The capital should be moved to Zhencheng to be close to a complete and abundant area.
Cao Cao refused.
Tian Feng said to Yuan Shao: Since the strategy of moving the capital has not been adopted, it is best to seize Xu County as soon as possible, bring the emperor over, and often issue orders to the whole country under the pretense of the emperor Shao Ling. This is the best way.
If you don't do this, you will eventually be controlled by others, and then even regret will have no effect.
Yuan Shao did not adopt it.
summary:
In the first year of Jian'an, Cao Cao welcomed the emperor to Xu County and blamed Yuan Shao for not aiding the emperor. Yuan Shao responded with a lengthy letter defending his actions, citing his loyalty and efforts against Dong Zhuo and others. The court appointed him Taiwei and Marquis of Ye, but he refused until Cao Cao yielded the position of General. Later, he was granted command of four provinces.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
四年春，击公孙瓚，遂定幽土，事在《瓚传》。
绍既并四州之地，众数十万，而骄心转盛，贡御稀简。
主簿耿包密白绍曰； 赤德衰尽，袁为黄胤，宜顺天意，以从民心。
绍以包白事示军府僚属，议者以包妖妄宜诛。
绍知众情不同，不得已乃杀包以弭其迹。
于是简精兵十万，骑万匹，欲出攻许，以审配、逢纪统军事，田丰、荀谌及南阳许攸为谋主，颜良、文丑为将帅。
沮授进说曰： 近讨公孙，师出历年，百姓疲敝，仓库无积，赋役方殷，此国之深忧也。
宜先遣使献捷天子，务农逸人。
若不得通，乃表曹操隔我王路，然后进屯黎阳，渐营河南，益作舟船，缮修器械，分遣精骑，抄其边鄙，令彼不得安，我取其逸。
如此可坐定也。
郭图、审配曰： 兵书之法，十围五攻，敌则能战。
今以明公之神武，连河朔之强众，以伐曹操，其势譬若覆手。
今不时取，后难图也。
授曰： 盖救敌诛暴，谓之义兵；恃众凭强，谓之骄兵。
义者无敌，骄者先灭。
曹操奉迎天子，建宫许都。
今举师南向，于义则违。
且庙胜之策，不在强弱，曹操法令既行，士卒精练，非公孙瓚坐受围者也。
今弃万安之术，而兴无名之师，窃为公惧之。
图等曰： 武王伐纣，不为不义；况兵加曹操，而云无名！
且公师徒精勇，将士思奋，而不及时早定大业，所谓 天与不取，反受其咎 。此越之所以霸，吴之所以灭也。
监军之计，在于持牢，而非见时知几之变也。
translation: 
In the spring of the fourth year, Yuan Shao attacked Gongsun Zan and pacified the Youzhou area. The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Gongsun Zan".
Since Yuan Shao annexed the territory of four states and had hundreds of thousands of troops, his pride became strong, and the tribute to the emperor was sparse and simple.
Geng Bao, the chief registrar, secretly wrote to Yuan Shao, saying: The Red Virtue of the Han Dynasty is about to decline. The Yuan family is the descendant of Yu Shun and Huang De, and they should comply with the will of God and the wishes of the people.
Yuan Shao showed Geng Bao's petition to his staff. Everyone believed that Geng Bao was deceitful and should be beheaded.
Yuan Shao knew that everyone disagreed, so he had no choice but to kill Geng Bao to cover up his feelings.
So Yuan Shao selected 100,000 elite soldiers and 10,000 cavalry to attack Xu County. He was responsible for supervising military affairs and observing discipline. Tian Feng, Xun Chen and Xu You from Nanyang were the main advisers, and Yan Liang and Wen Chou were the generals.
Jushou stepped forward and said: "The recent attack on Gongsun Zan lasted for a year. The people are exhausted and impoverished, there is no surplus in the warehouses, and there are too many taxes and labor. This is a matter of great concern to the country."
It is best to send envoys to present prisoners and spoils of war to the emperor first, and devote themselves to farming so that the troops and horses can rest.
If I can't reach the Emperor, I will report that Cao Cao has blocked my path to the Emperor, and then I will march troops to garrison Liyang, and gradually develop operations south of the Yellow River, build more ships, renovate equipment, dispatch excellent cavalry, and plunder the opponent's border areas, so that they will not have peace, but I will have peace of mind.
In this way, you can sit back and control the world.
Guo Tu and Shen Pei said: The method in the military book is to surround the enemy when the enemy is ten times more numerous, attack the enemy when the enemy is five times more numerous, and engage in battle when the strength is equal.
At present, with the help of Ming Gong's divine power and the powerful army in Heshuo area, it is easy to defeat Cao Cao.
If we don't capture it in time now, it will be difficult to deal with it in the future.
Jushu said: An army that eliminates chaos and violence is a moral army; an army that relies on large numbers and strength is called a proud army.
The army of benevolence and righteousness has no rival, but the army of pride will perish first.
Cao Cao supported and welcomed the emperor and built a palace in Xudu.
Now mobilizing all the troops to attack Cao Cao in the south would be contrary to righteousness.
Moreover, defeating the enemy depends on strategy, not strength. Cao Cao's decree has been implemented, and the soldiers are strong and capable, not the kind of people like Gongsun Zan who are waiting to be surrounded.
Now that you are abandoning perfectly safe strategies and launching armies without justifiable reasons, I am secretly afraid for you.
Guo Tu and others said: It is not unjust for King Wu of Zhou to attack Shang Zhou; besides, sending troops to attack Cao Cao is afraid that there will be no reason!
Besides, the lord's troops are strong and brave, and the generals and soldiers are all thinking of working hard. If you don't seize the opportunity to decide the great cause early, it will become what people say, God gives you a gift but does not take it, but you will be condemned by God. This is the reason why the Yue Kingdom dominates and the Wu Kingdom is destroyed.
The method of supervising the army lies in adhering to stability, rather than using expedient measures to seize opportunities according to the situation.
summary:
Yuan Shao attacked Gongsun Zan again, pacifying Youzhou. With control of four provinces and hundreds of thousands of troops, he grew arrogant. He planned to attack Xu County, ignoring Ju Shou's advice to rest and farm. Instead, he followed Guo Tu and Shen Pei's counsel to attack immediately. Tian Feng's warnings led to his imprisonment.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
沮授又说绍曰： 北兵虽众，而劲果不及南军；南军谷少，而资储不如此。
南幸于急战，北利在缓师。
宜徐持久，旷以日月。
绍不从。
连营稍前，渐逼官度，遂合战。操军不利，复还坚壁。
绍为高橹，起土山，射营中，营中皆蒙楯而行。
操乃发石车击绍楼，皆破，军中呼曰：霹雳车 。
绍为地道欲袭操，操辄于内为长堑以拒之。又遣奇兵袭绍运车，大破之，尽焚其谷食。
相持百余日，河南人疲困，多畔应绍。
绍遣淳于琼等将兵万余人北迎粮运。
沮授说绍可遣蒋奇别为支军于表，以绝曹操之钞。
绍不从。
许攸进曰： 曹操兵少而悉师拒我，许下余守势必空弱。
若分遣轻军，星行掩袭，许拔则操成禽。
如其未溃，可令首尾奔命，破之必也。
绍又不能用。
会攸家犯法，审配收系之，攸不得志，遂奔曹操，而说使袭取淳于琼等。
琼等时宿在乌巢，去绍军四十里。
操自将步骑五千人，夜往攻破琼等，悉斩之。
初，绍闻操击琼，谓长子谭曰： 就操破琼，吾拔其营，彼固无所归矣。
乃使高览、张郃等攻操营，不下。
二将闻琼等败，遂奔操。
于是绍军惊扰，大溃。
绍与谭等幅巾乘马，与八百骑度河，至黎阳北岸，入其将军蒋义渠营。
至帐下，把其手曰： 孤以首领相付矣。
义渠避帐而处之，使宣令焉。
众闻绍在，稍复集。
余众伪降，曹操尽坑之，前后所杀八万人。
沮授为操军所执，乃大呼曰： 授不降也，为所执耳。
操见授谓曰： 分野殊异，遂用圮绝，不图今日乃相得也。
translation: 
Ju Shou also advised Yuan Shao: Although the northern army has more people, it is not as strong and decisive as the southern army; the southern army has less food and its reserves are not as good as the northern army.
The Southern Army wanted a quick victory, while the Northern Army had the advantage of advancing slowly.
It is best to use a slow and long-lasting method to delay time.
Yuan Shao didn't listen.
Yuan Shao connected the camps and gradually advanced, slowly approaching Guandu. The two sides fought. As a result, Cao's army was defeated and retreated to the camp to hold on.
Yuan Shao built a tall watchtower and piled it into a mountain of earth, and fired arrows at Cao Cao's camp. The soldiers in the camp walked with shields on their heads.
So Cao Cao used a stone chariot to fire stones and destroyed all Yuan Shao's watchtowers. The soldiers in the army called them "Thunderbolt Chariots".
Yuan Shao dug tunnels to attack Cao Cao. Cao Cao immediately dug a long trench in the camp to stop Yuan Shao, and sent a surprise attack on Yuan's army's grain truck, burning all the grain.
The two sides fought for more than a hundred days, and the people south of the Yellow River were exhausted. Many people betrayed Cao Cao and joined Yuan Shao.
Yuan Shao sent Chunyu Qiong and others to lead more than 10,000 soldiers north to meet the troops transporting grain.
Jushu persuaded Yuan Shao to send Jiang Qi to lead another army as foreign aid to cut off Cao Cao's looting.
Yuan Shao disagreed.
Xu You offered advice and said: Cao Cao has few soldiers and all his troops are used to resist our army. The remaining defense force in Xu County must be empty and weak.
If another lightly-armed force is sent to attack day and night and capture Xu County, Cao Cao will naturally be captured.
Even if Cao Cao's army is not defeated, they can be forced to run from both ends and they will definitely defeat Cao Cao.
Yuan Shao couldn't accept it.
It happened that someone in Xu You's family broke the law and was imprisoned. Xu You felt frustrated, so he defected to Cao Cao and suggested that Cao Cao sneak attack Chunyu Qiong and others.
Chunyu Qiong and others were staying overnight at the Bird's Nest, which was forty miles away from Yuan Shao's troops.
Cao Cao personally led five thousand infantry and cavalry to attack Chunyu Qiong and others overnight and wiped them out.
Yuan Shao first learned that Cao Cao was attacking Chunyu Qiong, and said to his eldest son Yuan Tan: Even if Cao Cao defeats Chun Yuqiong and I capture Cao Cao's military camp, he will definitely have nowhere to return.
So he sent Gao Lan, Zhang He and others to attack Cao Cao's camp, but they couldn't capture it.
When the second general heard that Chunyu Qiong and others were defeated, he defected to Cao Cao.
At this time, Yuan Shao's army panicked and was completely defeated.
Yuan Shao, Yuan Tan and others, wearing turbans and riding horses, crossed the Yellow River with 800 cavalry, arrived at Liyang on the north bank, and entered the military camp of their general Jiang Yiqu.
When they arrived at Jiang Yiqu's tent, Yuan Shao took his hand and said, "I entrust my life to you."
Yiqu gave up his camp to Yuan Shao and asked him to issue orders.
Yuan Shao's tribe heard that Yuan Shao was alive, and gradually gathered together again.
The remaining tribesmen pretended to surrender, and Cao Cao buried them all alive. Eighty thousand people were killed one after another.
Jushou was captured by Cao Cao's army. He shouted loudly: I will not surrender, I am just captured.
Cao Cao saw Jushu and said to him: "We are not in the same place, so we are isolated from each other. I didn't expect to get you today."
summary:
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Yuan Shao marched south after Liu Bei's defection. He issued a proclamation condemning Cao Cao's crimes. His forces initially succeeded but were defeated at Guandu after Xu You defected and revealed the location of Yuan Shao's grain supplies at Wuchao. Cao Cao attacked and destroyed the supplies, leading to Yuan Shao's defeat. Yuan Shao fled with 800 cavalry, while many of his troops were killed or surrendered. Ju Shou was captured and executed after attempting to return to Yuan Shao.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
授对曰： 冀州失策，自取奔北。
授知力俱困，宜其见禽。
操曰： 本初无谋，不相用计。
今丧乱过纪，国家未定，方当与君图之。
授曰： 叔父、母、弟悬命袁氏，若蒙公灵，速死为福。
操叹曰： 孤早相得，天下不足虑也。
遂赦而厚遇焉。
授寻谋归袁氏，乃诛之。
绍外宽雅有局度，忧喜不形于色，而性矜愎自高，短于从善，故至于败。
及军还，或谓田丰曰： 君必见重。
丰曰： 公貌宽而内忌，不亮吾忠，而吾数以至言许之。
若胜而喜，必能赦我，战败而怨，内忌将发。
若军出有利，当蒙全耳，今既败矣，吾不望生。
绍还，曰： 吾不用田丰言，果为所笑。
遂杀之。
官度之败，审配二子为曹操所禽，孟岱与配有隙，因蒋奇言于绍曰： 配在位专政，族大兵强，且二子在南，必怀反畔。
郭图、辛评亦为然。
绍遂以岱为监军，代配守鄴。
护军逢纪与配不睦，绍以问之，纪对曰： 配天性烈直，每所言行，慕古人之节，不以二子在南为不义也，公勿疑之。
绍曰： 君不恶之邪？
纪曰： 先所争者私情，今所陈者国事。
绍曰： 善 。
乃不废配，配、纪由是更协。
冀州城邑多畔，绍复击定之。
自军败后发病，七年夏，薨。
未及定嗣，逢纪、审配宿以骄侈为谭所病，辛评、郭图皆比干谭而与配、纪有隙。
众以谭长，欲立之。
配等恐谭立而评等为害，遂矫绍遗命，奉尚为嗣。
translation: 
Jushu replied: Yuan Jizhou made a mistake in his strategy and caused his own defeat.
My intelligence and ability are limited, so I was naturally caught.
Cao Cao said: Yuan Benchu ​​has no strategy and cannot adopt your strategy.
Now the country has been in chaos for more than 12 years, and it still cannot be pacified. We are preparing to work with you to find a solution.
Jushu said: The lives of my uncle, mother, and brother hang in Yuan's hands. If you please allow me to die quickly, it will be my blessing.
Cao Cao sighed and said: If I had gotten you earlier, the world wouldn't have cared enough about you.
So he pardoned Ju and treated him favorably.
Soon Jushu tried to return to the Yuan family, and Cao Cao killed him.
Yuan Shao appears to be generous, elegant and considerate, and does not show sorrow or joy on his face. However, he is proud and arrogant by nature and cannot listen to correct opinions, which leads to failure.
When Yuan Shao's army returned, someone said to Tian Feng: You will definitely be used in important ways.
Tian Feng said: Mr. Yuan is generous on the surface but jealous in his heart. He does not believe in my loyalty, and I have offended him many times by telling the truth.
If he wins, he will definitely forgive me when he is happy; if he loses the battle, he will be resentful and jealous in his heart.
If I had been victorious, I would have been saved. Now that I have been defeated, I have no hope of surviving.
After Yuan Shao came back, he said: I didn't adopt Tian Feng's advice, and he really laughed at me.
So Tian Feng was killed.
Guan Du was defeated and Shen Pei's two sons were captured alive by Cao Cao. Meng Dai had a conflict with Shenpei, so he told Yuan Shao through Jiang Qi: Shenpei has monopolized power in office, has a large clan, strong military strength, and his two sons are in the south. He must want to rebel.
Guo Tu and Xin Ping also thought so.
Yuan Shao then appointed Meng Dai as the supervisor of the army to guard Ye County instead of Shen Pei.
The guard Feng Ji and his colleagues tried to find out whether they were in harmony with each other. Yuan Shao asked Feng Ji about the incident. Feng Ji replied: "Shen Pei is strong and straightforward by nature. Every time he says something or does something, he admires the integrity of the ancients. He will not do anything unjust because his two sons are in the south. Don't doubt him."
Yuan Shao said: Don't you hate him?
Feng Ji said: In the past, the disputes were personal matters, but now we are talking about national affairs.
Yuan Shao said: That's so right.
So the judge was not dismissed. Since then, the relationship between Shen Pei and Feng Ji has become more harmonious.
Many cities in Jizhou rebelled against Yuan Shao, and Yuan Shao was busy attacking and pacifying these cities.
Yuan Shao became ill after his defeat. In the summer of the seventh year of Jian'an, Yuan Shao died.
Yuan Shao had not had time to determine his successor. Fengji and Shenpei had always disgusted Yuan Tan because of their pride and luxury. Xin Ping and Guo Tu were both close to Yuan Tan and had conflicts with Shenpei and Fengji.
Everyone thinks that Yuan Tan is older and wants to establish Yuan Tan.
Shen Pei and others were afraid that Xin Ping and others would harm them after Yuan Tan came to the throne, so they pretended to be sent by Yuan Shao and supported Yuan Shang as their successor.
summary:
Yuan Shao appeared generous but was proud and unable to accept advice, leading to his downfall. After his defeat, he killed Tian Feng. He fell ill and died in the seventh year of Jian'an. His succession was disputed: Shen Pei and Feng Ji supported Yuan Shang, while others favored Yuan Tan, leading to internal conflict.

