Chunk 0: 
original: 
何武字君公，蜀郡郫县人也。
宣帝时，天下和平，四夷宾服，神爵、五凤之间屡蒙瑞应。
而益州刺史王襄使辩士王褒颂汉德，作《中和》、《乐职》、《宣布》诗三篇。
武年十四五，与成都杨覆众等共习歌之。
是时，宣帝循武帝故事，求通达茂异士，召见武等于宣室。
上曰： 此盛德之事，吾何足以当之哉！
以褒为待诏，武等赐帛罢。
武诣博士受业，治《易》。
以射策甲科为郎，与翟方进交志相友。
光禄勋举四行，迁为鄠令，坐法免归。
武兄弟五人，皆为郡吏，郡县敬惮之。
武弟显家有市籍，租常不入，县数负其课。
市啬夫求商捕辱显家，显怒，欲以吏事中商。
武曰： 以吾家租赋繇役不为众先，奉公吏不亦宜乎！
武卒白太守，召商为卒吏，州里闻之皆服焉。
久之，太仆王音举武贤良方正，征对策，拜为谏大夫，迁扬州刺史。
所举奏二千石长吏必先露章，服罪者为亏除，免之而已；不服，极法奏之，抵罪或至死。
九江太守戴圣，《礼经》号小戴者也，行治多不法，前刺史以其大儒，优容之。
及武为刺史，行部隶囚徒，有所举以属郡。
圣曰： 后进生何知，乃欲乱人治！
皆无所决。
武使从事廉得其罪，圣惧，自免，后为博士，毁武于朝廷。
武闻之，终不扬其恶。
而圣子宾客为群盗，得，系庐江，圣自以子必死。
武平心决之，卒得不死。
自是后，圣惭服。
武每奏事至京师，圣未尝不造门谢恩。
translation: 
He Wu, named Jungong, was from Pixian County, Shu County.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, the wars in the world subsided and order became stable, and the barbarians surrendered. The gods and the five phoenixes received many auspicious blessings in response to the virtues of the king.
Wang Xiang, the governor of Yizhou, ordered the debater Wang Li to praise Mo De and wrote three poems: "Zhonghe", "Le Shi" and "Xuanxuan".
He Wu was fourteen or fifteen years old at the time and learned to sing these poems with Yang Fuzhong and others in Chengdu.
At that time, Emperor Xuan followed Emperor Wu's old practice of seeking knowledgeable and knowledgeable scholars and summoned He Wu and others in the Xuan room.
The emperor said: This is a matter of great virtue, why can I bear it?
Wang Bao was prepared to wait for Shao, and He Wu and others gave him silk and retreated.
He Wu met with the doctor to learn from him and studied "The Book of Changes".
He became a doctor by virtue of passing the marksmanship test, and became friendly with Zhai Fangjin.
Guang Luxun recommended officials according to the four lines, and He Wu was promoted to the county magistrate of E County. Those who broke the law were dismissed and sent home.
The five He Wu brothers were all officials in the county, and people in the county respected them.
He Wu's younger brother, He Xian, whose family was registered as a merchant, often failed to pay taxes, and the county paid his taxes many times.
The person in charge of collecting taxes in the market, Qiu Shang, took advantage of this to insult He Xian's family. He Xian was furious and wanted to use his official career to slander Qiu Shang.
He Wu said: Because our family pays rent, taxes, and does corvee work before others, shouldn't officials who put official affairs first and not show favoritism like this?
He Wu finally reported it to the prefect and recruited Qiu Shang as a soldier. People in the state admired him when they heard about it.
过了很久，太仆王音推举何武贤良方正，召他对策，授官做了谏议大夫，升任扬州刺史。
Many high-ranking officials who had been accused of reporting a salary of two thousand dan must first issue a notice to them. If they plead guilty, their charges will be reduced and they will be dismissed; if they do not plead guilty, their charges will be reported with the heaviest penalty to compensate for their responsibilities. Some may even be sentenced to death.
Dai Sheng, the prefect of Jiujiang, was known as Xiao Dai in the Book of Rites. He often punished people for not obeying the laws. The former governor tolerated him because he was a great Confucian.
When He Wu became the governor, the patrol department examined and recorded the crimes of the prisoners, and some of them were reported and handed over to the county for punishment.
Dai Sheng said: What do underachievers know that they want to disrupt other people's management!
There is no ruling.
When He Wu sent someone to investigate his crimes, Dai Sheng was afraid and resigned. Later, he became a doctor and slandered He Wu in the court.
He Wu heard about this incident and never publicized his evil deeds.
Later, the guests of Dai Sheng's son formed a group of thieves and were captured by the officials and imprisoned in Lujiang. Dai Sheng thought that his son would definitely die.
He Wu tried his best to judge the case fairly, and his son was not sentenced to death in the end.
From then on, Dai Sheng was ashamed and convinced.
Every time He Wu went to the capital to carry out business, Dai Sheng never came to his door to express his gratitude.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
武为刺史，二千石有罪，应时举奏，其余贤与不肖敬之如一，是以郡国各重其守相，州中清平。
行部必先即学宫见诸生，试其诵论，问以得失，然后入传舍，出记问垦田顷亩、五谷美恶，已乃见二千石，以为常。
初，武为郡吏时，事太守何寿。
寿知武有宰相器，以其同姓故厚之。
后寿为大司农，其兄子为庐江长史。
时，武奏事在邸，寿兄子适在长安，寿为具召武弟显及故人杨覆众等，酒酣，见其兄子，曰： 此子扬州长史，材能驽下，未尝省见。
显等甚惭，退以谓武，武曰： 刺史古之方伯，上所委任，一州表率也，职在进善退恶。吏治行有茂异，民有隐逸，乃当召见，不可有所私问。
显、覆众强之，不得已召见，赐卮酒。
岁中，庐江太守举之。
其守法见惮如此。
为刺史五岁，入为丞相司直，丞相薛宣敬重之。
出为清河太守，数岁，坐郡中被灾害什四以上免。
久之，大司马曲阳侯王根荐武，征为谏大夫。
迁兖州刺史，入为司隶校尉，徙京兆尹。
二岁，坐举方正所举者召见槃辟雅拜，有司以为诡众虚伪。
武坐左迁楚内史，迁沛郡太守，复入为廷尉。
绥和元年，御史大夫孔光左迁廷尉，武为御史大夫。
成帝欲修辟雍，建三公官，即改御史大夫为大司空。
武更为大司空，封汜乡侯，食邑千户。
汜乡在琅邪不其，哀帝初即位，褒赏大臣，更以南阳犨之博望乡为汜乡侯国，增邑千户。
武为人仁厚，好进士，将称人之善。
为楚内史厚两龚，在沛郡厚两唐，及为公卿，荐之朝廷。
此人显于世者，何侯力也，世以此多焉。
translation: 
He Wu was the governor, and two thousand officials who were guilty could be reported at any time. The remaining officials who were worthy and those who were not worthy were treated equally. Therefore, each country valued their governors and prime ministers, and the state was peaceful.
The patrolling subordinates must first go to the academy to meet the students, examine their recitations and debates, and inquire about their gains and losses in political affairs. Then they enter the transmission hall and take out records to inquire about the number of cultivated fields and the quality of the grains. Only then will they meet with the county guard, making it a customary order.
At the beginning, when He Wu was an official in the county, he served He Shou, the prefect.
He Shou knew that He Wu had the talents of a prime minister, so he treated him favorably because he had the same surname as himself.
Later, He Shou became the chief agricultural officer, and his brother's son became the chief historian of Lujiang.
At that time, He Wu was playing something in the official residence, and the son of He Shou's brother happened to be in Chang'an. He Shou prepared a banquet and invited He Wu's younger brother He Xian, his old friend Yang Fuzhong and others. They drank happily and asked his brother's son to come out to meet him. He said: "My son is the governor of Yangzhou and has low talents. He has never greeted He Wu."
He Xian and others were ashamed, so they came back and told He Wu about the matter. He Wu said: The governor is like the ancient Fang Bo. He is appointed by the emperor and serves as a model for a state. His duty is to recommend good people and eliminate bad people. Only officials who have outstanding achievements in government affairs and people who live in seclusion should be summoned. No private inquiries are allowed.
He Xian and Yang Fuzhong forced him to summon him and gave him a bottle of wine.
In the middle of the year, the prefect of Lujiang promoted the son of brother He Shou.
He Wu obeyed the law in this way and was afraid of neglecting his duty.
He Wu served as governor for five years and then came to Beijing to serve as Prime Minister Sizhi. Prime Minister Xue Xuan respected him very much.
He served as the prefect of Qinghe. A few years later, he was dismissed from office because more than four-tenths of the county suffered disasters.
After a long time, the Grand Sima Quyang Hou Wanggen recommended He Wu and recruited him to be the admonishing doctor.
He was promoted to the governor of Yanzhou, moved to Beijing to be appointed as Sili Xiaowei, and was transferred to Jing Zhaoyin.
Two years later, He Wu recommended Fang Zheng. Because the person he recommended turned around and bowed when he was summoned, some officials thought that he was guilty of fraud and fraud.
He Wu was convicted and demoted to the position of internal history of Chu, promoted to the prefect of Pei County, and then moved to Beijing as a court lieutenant.
In the third year of Suihe, Kong Guang, the imperial censor, was demoted to Tingwei, and He Wu became the censor.
Emperor Cheng was about to establish the rule of Piyong and open the official positions of the three public officials, so he changed the original Yushi Dafu to Da Sikong.
He Wu was appointed as Da Sikong and was granted the title of Marquis of Fanxiang, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Fanxiang was in Langxie, and Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne. He praised and rewarded ministers, and also made Bowang Township in Nanyangluo the fief of Fanxiang, adding a thousand households to the fiefdom.
He Wu was kind and kind, and liked to recommend scholars and exhort and praise the benefits of others.
When he was the internal history of Chu, he treated Gong Sheng and Gong She favorably. When he was in Pei County, he treated Tang Lin and Tang Zun favorably. When he became a minister, he recommended them to the court.
The reason why these people are prominent in the world is the power of He Hou, and the world respects He Wu for this.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
然疾朋党，问文吏必于儒者，问儒者必于文吏，以相参检。
欲除吏，先为科例以防请托。
其所居亦无赫赫名，去后常见思。
及为御史大夫司空，与丞相方进共奏言： 往者诸侯王断狱治政，内史典狱事，相总纲纪辅王，中尉备盗贼。
今王不断狱与政，中尉官罢，职并内史，郡国守相委任，所以一统信，安百姓也。
今内史位卑而权重，威职相逾，不统尊者，难以为治。
臣请相如太守，内史如都尉，以顺尊卑之序，平轻重之权。
制曰： 可。
以内史为中尉。
初，武为九卿时，奏言宜置三公官，又与方进共奏罢刺史，更置州牧，后皆复复故，语在《朱博传》。
唯内史事施行。
多所举奏，号为烦碎，不称贤公。
功名略比薛宣，其材不及也，而经术正直过之。
武后母在郡，遣吏归迎，会成帝崩，吏恐道路有盗贼，后母留止，左右或讥武事亲不笃。
哀帝亦欲改易大臣，遂策免武曰： 君举错烦苛，不合众心，孝声不闻，恶名流行，无以率示四方，其上大司空印绶，罢归就国。
后五岁，谏大夫鲍宣数称冤之，天子感丞相王嘉之对，而高安侯董贤亦荐武，武由是复征为御史大夫，月余，徙为前将军。
先是，新都侯王莽就国，数年，上以太皇太后故征莽还京师。
莽从弟成都侯王邑为侍中，矫称太皇太后指白哀帝，为莽求特进给事中。
哀帝复请之，事发觉。
太后为谢，上以太后故不忍诛之，左迁邑为西河属国都尉，削千户。
translation: 
However, he hates cliques and will definitely ask Confucians and examine civil servants, and he will definitely ask civil servants and examine Confucian scholars for mutual reference and testing.
Before appointing officials, regulations should be drawn up to prevent private appointments.
He did not have a great reputation as an official, and was often missed after leaving office.
When He Wu became the imperial censor, Sikong, he and Prime Minister Fang Jin made a memorial together: In the past, the princes and kings judged cases and governed political affairs, the internal historian was in charge of litigation matters, the prime minister was in charge of laws and regulations to assist the princes and kings, and the lieutenant dealt with thieves.
Nowadays, the princes and kings do not decide cases and participate in government affairs. The lieutenant's official position is removed, his responsibilities are merged into the internal history, and the governor of the county is appointed to unify prestige and stabilize the people.
Nowadays, the position of internal history is low but the power is great. The power exceeds the position. If it is not unified into a noble status, it is difficult to govern well.
I request that the position of the prime minister should be like that of the prefect, and that of the internal historian should be like that of the captain, so as to comply with the order of dignity and balance the power.
The emperor ordered: "Okay."
Change internal history to lieutenant.
When He Wu first became the Jiuqing, he proposed that the three official positions should be set up, and he and Fang Jin jointly proposed that the governor should be abolished and the prefecture should be established instead. Later, the old system was restored. This incident is recorded in the "Zhu Bo Biography".
Only the internal history will work.
He Wu had many recommendations, but he could be called a trivial person and could not be called a virtuous person.
His achievements and reputation are roughly the same as Xue Xuan's, his talent is not as good as his, but his knowledge of Confucian classics and integrity are better than his.
He Wu's stepmother lived in the county, and he sent officials back to greet him. Emperor Cheng had just died. The officials were afraid that there might be thieves on the road, so they allowed his stepmother to stay in Shaozhong. Some of the ministers on the left and right accused He Wu of serving his relatives unfaithfully.
Emperor Ai also wanted to change ministers, so he issued a policy letter to remove He Wudao: "Your actions are cumbersome and not in line with everyone's wishes. Your reputation for filial piety is not heard, your bad reputation is popular, and you are not used to set an example to show to the world." The seal and ribbon of the Great Sikong should be returned, and the official should be dismissed and returned to the feudal state.
Five years later, Bao Xuan, the remonstrating doctor, defended him many times. The emperor was moved by Prime Minister Wang Jia's reply. Dong Xian, the Marquis of Gao'an, also recommended He Wu, so He Wu was recruited as the imperial censor. After more than a month, he was transferred to former general.
Before that, Wang Mang, the lord of the new capital, returned to the feudal state. A few years later, the emperor summoned Wang Mang to return to the capital because of the empress dowager.
Gong Mang's cousin, Chengdu Marquis Wang Yi, was a minister. He pretended to report the Queen Mother's decree to Emperor Ai, and requested a special divination official position on Wang Mang's behalf.
Emperor Ai asked the Empress Dowager for instructions again, and the matter was exposed.
The Queen Mother apologized for him, but the Emperor couldn't bear to kill him because of the Queen Mother, so he demoted Wang Yi and appointed him as the captain of the Xihe vassal state, reducing the number of thousands of households.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
后有诏举大常，莽私从武求举，武不敢举。
后数月，哀帝崩，太后即日引莽入，收大司马董贤印绶，诏有司举可大司马者。
莽故大司马，辞位辟丁、傅，众庶称以为贤，又太后近亲，自大司徒孔光以下举朝皆举莽。
武为前将军，素与左将军公孙禄相善，二人独谋，以为往时孝惠、孝昭少主之世，外戚吕、霍、上官持权，几危社稷，今孝成、孝哀比世无嗣，方当选立亲近辅幼主，不宜令异姓大臣持权，亲疏相错，为国计便。
于是武举公孙禄可大司马，而禄亦举武。
太后竟自用莽为大司马。
莽风有司劾奏武、公孙禄互相称举，皆免。
武就国后，莽寝盛，为宰衡，阴诛不附己者。元始三年，吕宽等事起。
时，大司空甄丰承莽风指，遣使者乘传案治党与，连引诸所欲诛，上党鲍宣，南阳彭伟、杜公子，郡国豪桀坐死者数百人。
武在见诬中，大理正槛车征武，武自杀。
众人多冤武者，莽欲厌众意，令武子况嗣为侯，谥武曰刺侯。
莽篡位，免况为庶人。
王嘉字公仲，平陵人也。
以明经射策甲科为郎，坐户殿门失阑免。
光禄勋于永除为掾，察廉为南陵丞，复察廉为长陵尉。
鸿嘉中，举敦朴能直言，召见宣室，对政事得失，超迁太中大夫。
出为九江、河南太守，治甚有声。
征入为大鸿胪，徙京兆尹，迁御史大夫。
建平三年代平当为丞相，封新甫侯，加食邑，千一百户。
嘉为人刚直严毅有威重，上甚敬之。
哀帝初立，欲匡成帝之政，多所变动，嘉上疏曰：
臣闻圣王之功在于得人。
孔子曰： 材难，不其然与！
translation: 
Later, Shao ordered to recommend Dachang. Wang Mang privately encouraged He Wu to ask for the recommendation, but He Wu did not dare to recommend him.
A few months later, Emperor Ai died. The Queen Mother summoned Wang Mang to the palace that day, took back the seal and ribbon of Dong Xian, the Grand Sima, and ordered Yousi to recommend someone who could be the Grand Sima.
Wang Mang turned out to be a Sima, but he resigned from his official post because he avoided Ding and Fu. People praised him as a virtuous man and he was also a close relative of the Queen Mother. All the officials from Bai Da Situ Kong Guang on down recommended Wang Mang.
He Wu was a former general who had a good relationship with Gongsun Lu, the left general. The two planned alone, believing that when the two young emperors Xiaohui and Xiaozhao were in power, their relatives Lu, Huo and Shangguan controlled the power and almost endangered the country. Now that Xiaocheng and Xiaoai have no heirs for two consecutive generations, people should be selected to appoint close people to assist the young emperor. Ministers with different surnames should not be allowed to control the power. People who are close and distant are mixed together to facilitate the country's planning.
Therefore, He Wu recommended Gongsun Lu to be the Great Sima, and Gongsun Lu also recommended He Wu.
The Queen Mother finally appointed Wang Mang as Grand Sima on her own initiative.
Wang Mang hinted that there was a petition to impeach He Wu and Gongsun Lu, who praised each other and recommended each other, and both of them were dismissed from office.
After He Wu returned to the feudal country, Wang Mang's power gradually became stronger and he became the prime minister, secretly killing those who did not depend on him. In the third year of Yuanshi, Lu Kuan and other things happened.
At that time, Grand Sikong Zhenfeng accepted Wang Mang's secret order and sent envoys to clean up and punish his comrades, which implicated many people Wang Mang wanted to kill, including Shangdang Bao Xuan, Nanyang Peng Wei, Du Gongzi, and hundreds of heroes from the county and country were convicted and died.
He Wu was also framed. Dali was recruiting He Wu with a carriage, but He Wu committed suicide.
Many people thought that He Wu was unjustly accused. Wang Mang wanted to satisfy the public opinion and made He Wu's son Gu Ji the successor as a marquis and Mi He Wu as a marquis.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and was deposed, let alone a commoner.
Wang Jia, whose courtesy name was Gongzhong, was from Huling.
He passed the Ming Jing She Ce Jia Ke examination and became a doctor. He was convicted and dismissed because he did not stop people who should not enter when he was guarding the palace gate.
Guang Luxun appointed him as a subordinate official in Yuyong. He was promoted to Nanling County magistrate because of his integrity, and Changling County captain because of his integrity.
During the Hongjia period, Wang Jia was summoned to the Propaganda Office to answer questions about the pros and cons of political affairs, and was promoted to the rank of Taizhong doctor.
He left the capital and served as the governor of Jiujiang and Henan, and was very famous for his governance.
He was recruited to Beijing as Da Honglu, transferred to Jing Zhaoyin, and promoted to the imperial censor.
In the third year of Jianping's reign, he replaced Ping as prime minister, was granted the title of Xinfu Marquis, and was granted an additional 1,100 households in the city.
Wang Jia was upright, resolute and prestigious, and the emperor respected him very much.
Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne and wanted to rectify the political affairs of Emperor Cheng, but there were many changes. Wang Jiashang said:
I heard that the merit of a wise king lies in acquiring talented people.
Confucius said: Talents are rare, isn't it?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
故断世立诸侯，象贤也。
虽不能尽贤，天子为择臣，立命卿以辅之。
居是国也，累世尊重，然后士民之众附焉，是以教化行而治功立。
今之郡守重于古诸侯，往者致选贤材，贤材难得，拔擢可用者，或起于囚徒。
昔魏尚坐事系，文帝感冯唐之言，遣使持节赦其罪，拜为云中太守，匈奴忌之。
武帝擢韩安国于徒中，拜为梁内史，骨肉长安。
张敞为京兆尹，有罪当免，黠吏知而犯敞，敞收杀之，其家自冤，使者覆狱，刻敞贼杀人，上逮捕不下，会免，亡命数十日，宣帝征敞拜为冀州刺史，卒获其用。
前世非私此三人，贪其材器有益于公家也。
孝文时，吏居官者或长子孙，以官为氏，仓氏、库氏则仓库吏之后也。
其二千石长吏亦安官乐职，然后下下相望，莫有苟且之意。
其后稍稍变易，公卿以下传相促急，又数改更政事，司隶、部刺史察过悉劾，发扬阴私，吏或居官数月而退，送故迎新，交错道路。
中材苟容求全，下材怀危内顾，一切营私者多。
二千石益轻贱，吏民慢易之。
或持其微过，增加成罪，言于刺史、司隶，或至上书章下；众庶知其易危，小失意则有离畔之心。
前山阳亡徒苏令等从横，吏士临难，莫肯伏节死义，以守相威权素夺也。
孝成皇帝悔之，下诏书，二千石不为纵，遣使者赐金，尉厚其意，诚以为国家有急，取办于二千石，二千石尊重难危，乃能使下。
translation: 
Therefore, those who succeed the previous generation and establish themselves as princes only need to be as virtuous as their ancestors.
Even if they cannot all be capable, the emperor can select ministers for them and appoint ministers to assist them.
According to this feudal state, the scholars of all ages respected the scholars and valued the virtuous, and then the scholars and the people would submit to him. Therefore, the merits of education and rule were established.
Nowadays, the status of the governor is more important than that of the ancient princes. In the past, it was difficult to recruit and select talented people. Talents were difficult to find. Some of the people who could be selected and promoted were selected from prisoners.
In the past, Wei Shang was convicted and imprisoned. Emperor Wen was moved by Feng Tang's words and sent an envoy with a talisman to pardon his crime and appointed him as the prefect of Yunzhong. The Huns were afraid of him.
Emperor Wu promoted Han Anguo from among those who had been sentenced to hard labor and appointed him as Liang's internal history, so that his flesh and blood could live in peace.
Zhang Chang was a Jingzhao Yin, and he should be removed from office if found guilty. Some cunning officials deliberately offended Zhang Chang when they found out. Zhang Chang arrested and killed him. His family defended themselves, and envoys reviewed the prison case and impeached Zhang Chang for murder.
The previous generation did not favor these three people, but coveted their talents for the benefit of the country.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, some officials' official positions were extended to their descendants, and their surnames were named after the officials. The Cang family and the Ku family were the descendants of the warehouse officials.
Those high-ranking officials with a salary of two thousand dan were content with their positions, loved their profession, and encouraged them from top to bottom. No one had the intention of muddle along and be careless.
After that, there were slight changes. Officials below the rank of public minister communicated with each other in a hurry, and political affairs were changed many times. When the officials were found to have faults, they all impeached them and promoted privacy. Some officials resigned after being in office for a few months, sending away the old and welcoming the new, and commuting with each other on the road.
People with moderate talents seek to survive in a sheltered environment, those with low talents are afraid to protect themselves, and the number of people who are expedient and seeking self-interest increases.
Officials with a salary of two thousand dan are even more humble and humble, and the officials and the people despise them.
Some people found out about their minor faults, added them to the crime, and reported them to the governor and officials. Some people punished them according to the official seal. Everyone knew that they were prone to danger, and they would have thoughts of betrayal when they were slightly frustrated.
In the past, Su Ling, a fugitive servant from Shanyang, and others were rampant, and officials and scholars were in trouble. No one was willing to die in righteousness. This was because the authority of the governor, princes, and ministers was usually deprived of them.
Emperor Xiaocheng regretted this incident and issued an edict. The two thousand stone officials were not charged with deliberate indulgence and sent envoys to reward them with gold to comfort their hearts. He really believed that the country was in danger and ordered the two thousand stone officials to deal with it. Only in times of crisis can the authority of the two thousand stone officials be brought into play to lead their subordinates and the people.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
孝宣皇帝爱其良民吏，有章劾，事留中，会赦一解。
故事，尚书希下章，为烦扰百姓，证验系治，或死狱中，章文必有 敢告之 字乃下。
唯陛下留神于择贤，记善忘过，容忍臣子，勿责以备。
二千石、部刺史、三辅县令有材任职者，人情不能不有过差，宜可阔略，令尽力者有所劝。
此方今急务，国家为利也。
前苏令发，欲遣大夫使逐问状，时见大夫无可使者，召盩厔令尹逢拜为谏大夫遣之。
今诸大夫有材能者甚少，宜豫畜养可成就者，则士赴难不爱其死；临事仓卒乃求，非所以明朝廷也。
嘉因荐儒者公孙光、满昌及能吏萧咸、薛修等，皆故二千石有名称。天子纳而用之。
会息夫躬、孙宠等因中常侍宋弘上书告东平王云祝诅，又与后舅伍宏谋弑上为逆，云等伏诛，躬、宠擢为吏二千石。
是时，侍中董贤爱幸于上，上欲侯之而未有所缘，傅嘉劝上因东平事以封贤。
上于是定躬、宠告东平本章，掇去宋弘，更言因董贤以闻，欲以其功侯之，皆先赐爵关内侯。
顷之，欲封贤等，上心惮嘉，乃先使皇后父孔乡侯傅晏持诏书视丞相御史。
于是嘉与御史大夫贾延上封事言： 窃见董贤等三人始赐爵，众庶匈匈，咸曰贤贵，其余并蒙恩，至今流言未解。
陛下仁恩于贤等不已，宜暴贤等本奏语言，延问公卿、大夫、博士、议郎，考合古今，明正其义，然后乃加爵土；不然，恐大失众心，海内引领而议。
暴平其事，必有言当封者，在陛下所从；天下虽不说，咎有所分，不独在陛下。
前定陵侯淳于长初封，其事亦议。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoxuan cherished those officials who were good at governing the people. If there were memorials for impeachment, he would keep matters under prohibition, and if there was a pardon, they would all be lifted.
In the old days, ministers rarely issued memorials because they were bothering the people. If proven, they would be imprisoned and punished. If someone died in prison, there must be the words "dare to report" in the memorial before it is released.
I hope that Your Majesty will carefully select talented people, remember the good points and forget the mistakes, be tolerant of his ministers, and not blame them for the sake of perfection.
Erqian Shiguan, Ministry of Governors, and Sanfu County Magistrates have the talent and qualifications to hold official positions. They must make mistakes as a matter of course. They should be able to forgive small mistakes and encourage those who work hard to serve.
This is an important matter today, the national interest.
Su Ling was a thief and wanted to send a doctor to ask him about the situation. However, the doctors he saw at that time were not qualified to dispatch, so he summoned Yin Feng, the magistrate of the whole house, appointed him as a remonstrance doctor and sent him.
Nowadays, there are very few talented officials. We should prepare people who can achieve great results in advance. Then the scholars will go to save the country and not hesitate to die. Only seeking such people in a hurry when facing troubles and chaos is not a way to govern the court.
Wang Jia then recommended the Confucian scholars Gongsun Guang and Manchang, as well as talented officials Xiao Xian, Xue Xiu and others. They were all famous and praised officials who had a salary of two thousand tons of stone. The emperor accepted and appointed them.
It happened that Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and others submitted a memorial through Song Hongjin, the chief minister, and reported that King Shuqian Liu Yun prayed to ghosts and gods to curse the emperor, and planned with his uncle Wu Hong to kill the emperor and launch a rebellion.
At this time, the servant Dong Xian was loved and favored by the emperor. The emperor wanted to make him a marquis but there was no reason. Fu Jia persuaded the emperor to use the incident of King Binh of Cambodia to reward Dong Xian.
Therefore, the emperor decided to change the original memorial in which Xifu Gong and Sun Chong reported on King Dongping, omitting Song Hong's name, and changed it to say that Dong Xian heard about the incident, and wanted to make him a marquis based on this merit. All three of them were first conferred the title of Guannei Marquis.
Soon after, he wanted to canonize Dong Xian and others, but the emperor was afraid of Wang Jia, so he first sent the queen's father, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, to show the Prime Minister and Censor the Shao Shu.
So Wang Jia and the imperial censor bought a sealed memorial and said: Privately, they saw that Dong Xian and three other people had just been conferred a title. Everyone was talking about it, saying that Dong Xian had become noble and the rest of them had received favors together. The rumors have not dissipated to this day.
Your Majesty has continued to extend benevolence and kindness to Dong Xian and others. You should show the original sentences of Dong Xian and others' memorials, interview and inquire with the ministers, doctors, and counselors, examine the ancient and modern examples, and confirm that it is in line with morality. Only then can you add titles and fiefs. Otherwise, I am afraid that you will lose the hearts of the people and the people of the world will talk about it.
When the matter is discussed publicly, there must be someone who says that he should be made a marquis. It depends on whether your majesty listens. Even if everyone in the world is unhappy, the fault will be shared, not just your majesty.
In the past, Dingling Marquis Chunyu Changgang was granted the title of Marquis, and there was controversy over his actions.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
大司农谷永以长当封，众人归咎于永，先帝不独蒙其讥。
臣嘉、臣延材驽不称，死有余责。
知顺指不迕，可得容身须臾，所以不敢者，思报厚恩也。
上感其言，止，数月，遂下诏封贤等，因以切责公卿曰： 朕居位以来，寝疾未瘳，反逆之谋相连不绝，贼乱之臣近侍帷幄。
前东平王云与后谒祝诅朕，使侍医伍宏等内侍案脉，几危社稷，殆莫甚焉！
昔楚有子玉得臣，晋文为之侧席而坐；近事，汲黯折淮南之谋。
今云等至有图弑天子逆乱之谋者，是公卿股肱莫能悉心务聪明以销厌未萌之故。
赖宗庙之灵，侍中、驸马都尉贤等发觉以闻，咸伏厥辜。
《书》不云乎？ 用德章厥善 。其封贤为高安侯、南阳太守宠为方阳侯、左曹光禄大夫躬为宜陵侯。
后数月，日食，举直言，嘉复奏封事曰：
臣闻咎繇戒帝舜曰： 亡敖佚欲有国，兢兢业业，一日二日万机。
箕子戒武王曰： 臣无有作威作福，亡有玉食；臣之有作威作福玉食，害于而家，凶于而国，人用侧颇辟，民用僣慝。
言如此则逆尊卑之序，乱阴阳之统，而害及王者，其国极危。
国人倾仄不正，民用僣差不一，此君不由法度，上下失序之败也。
武王躬履此道，隆至成、康。
自是以后，纵心恣欲，法度陵迟，至于臣弑君，子弑父。
父子至亲，失礼患生，何况异姓之臣？
孔子曰： 道千乘之国，敬事而信，节用而爱人，使民以时。
translation: 
The great minister Nong Gu Yong believed that Chun Yuchang should be made a marquis, and everyone blamed Gu Yong. The late emperor did not bear the blame alone.
The ministers Wang Jia and Jia Yan are of low talent and incompetent. Even if they die, they will not escape the blame.
I know that obedience will not violate the imperial edict, and I can get shelter for a moment, but the reason why I don't dare to obey is because I want to repay your kindness.
The emperor was moved by their words and stopped the matter. After a few months, he finally issued an order to reward Dong Xian and others. He severely reprimanded the minister and said: Since I ascended the throne, I have been ill and have not recovered. There have been continuous rebellious plots, and the rebellious ministers have been serving closely in the palace.
The former Shuping King Liu Yun and Queen Ye prayed to the ghosts and gods to curse me, and sent Wu Hong and other internal servants to check my pulse. They almost endangered the country. There is probably nothing more powerful than this!
In the past, there was a minister named Ziyu in the Chu State, and Duke Wen of Jin sat beside him; in modern times, Ji An foiled the plot of the King of Huainan.
Nowadays, Liu Yun and others can have a conspiracy to kill the emperor and rebel. This is because no one among the ministers and ministers can dedicate themselves to seeing and hearing to suppress it before it happens.
Relying on the gods of the ancestral temple, Dong Xian, the prince's consort, and others discovered and reported me, and the rebellious ministers were punished according to their crimes.
Isn't it said in "Shangshu"? He appointed virtuous people to commend their loyalty, so he named Dong Xian the Marquis of Gao'an, Sun Chong, the governor of Nanyang, the Marquis of Fangyang, and Xifu Gong, the doctor of Zuo Cao Guanglu, the Marquis of Yiling.
A few months later, there was a food crisis, and the emperor ordered to recommend people who dared to speak out. Wang Jia also wrote a sealed memorial saying:
I heard that Jiu Yao warned Emperor Shun: People in the state should not be arrogant or indulge in desires, but should be cautious and alert, and grasp the timing of everything day by day.
Jizi warned King Wu: There should be no one who acts arrogantly and eats exquisite food. If any of your ministers act arrogantly and eat exquisite food, it will be harmful to your family and unlucky for your country. As a result, everyone will be biased towards evil and the people will be false and evil.
This means that doing this will violate the order of superiority and inferiority, disturb the rules of yin and yang, and harm the king, and his country will be in danger.
The people living in the city are partial to evil, and the people are therefore false, evil and unfocused. This is the decline caused by the king's failure to abide by laws and regulations and the loss of due order at the top and bottom.
King Wu personally implemented these laws, and the country prospered until the Kangxi era.
Since the Chengkang era, the mind has been indulged and desires have been indulged, and the legal system has declined, to the point where ministers kill their monarchs and sons kill their fathers.
Father and son are the closest relationship, but they lose their etiquette and hate their father's existence, let alone ministers with different surnames?
Confucius said: To govern a large country with a thousand chariots, one should handle affairs with respect and credibility, be frugal in expenses and cherish the people, and use people's power within a certain time limit.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
孝文皇帝备行此道，海内蒙恩，为汉太宗。
孝宣皇帝赏罚信明，施与有节，记人之功，忽于小过，以致治平。
孝元皇帝奉承大业，温恭少欲，都内钱四十万万，水衡钱二十五万万，少府钱十八万万。
尝幸上林，后宫冯贵人从临兽圈，猛兽惊出，贵人前当之，元帝嘉美其义，赐钱五万。
掖庭见亲，有加赏赐，属其人勿众谢。
示平恶偏，重失人心，赏赐节约。
是时，外戚赀千万者少耳，故少府水衡见钱多也。
虽遭初元、永光凶年饥馑，加有西羌之变，外奉师旅，内振贫民，终无倾危之忧，以府臧内充实也。
孝成皇帝时，谏臣多言燕出之害，及女宠专爱，耽于酒色，损德伤年，其言甚切，然终不怨怒也。
宠臣淳于长、张放、史育：育数贬退，家资不满千万；放斥逐就国；长榜死于狱。
不以私爱害公义，故虽多内讥，朝廷安平，传业陛下。
陛下在国之时，好《诗》、《书》，上俭节，征来所过道上称诵德美，此天下所以回心也。
初即位，易帷帐，去锦绣，乘舆席缘绨缯而已。
共皇寝庙比比当作，忧闵元元，惟用度不足，以义割恩，辄且止息，今始作治。
而驸马都尉董贤亦起官寺上林中，又为贤治大第，开门乡北阙，引王渠灌园池，使者护作，赏赐吏卒，甚于治宗庙。
贤母病，长安厨给祠具，道中过者皆饮食。
为贤治器，器成，奏御乃行，或物好，特赐其工，自贡献宗庙三宫，犹不至此。
贤家有宾婚及见亲，诸官并共，赐及仓头奴婢，人十万钱。
使者护视，发取市物，百贾震动，道路讠雚哗，群臣惶惑。
诏书罢菀，而以赐贤二千余顷，均田之制从此堕坏。
奢僣放纵，变乱阴阳，灾异众多，百姓讹言，持筹相惊，被发徒跣而走，乘马者驰，天惑其意，不能自止。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowen fully implemented these measures, and everyone in the world received favors and became Taizong of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Xiaoxuan's rewards and punishments were fair and clear, his favors were measured, his achievements were recorded, and minor mistakes were ignored, so he achieved peace in the country's governance.
Emperor Xiaoyuan inherited a great cause, he was gentle and respectful and had few desires. He had 400,000,000 yuan in the capital's treasury and 250,000,000 yuan in water balance. The Shaofu has accumulated 180,000,000 yuan.
Emperor Xiaoyuan once visited Shanglin, and Feng Guiren from the harem followed him to the animal enclosure. The beast was frightened and came out of the circle. The nobleman stepped forward to stop Emperor Yuan. Emperor Yuan commended her for her righteous deeds and gave her 50,000 coins.
When people from the Yeting Palace met with their relatives, those who gave them rewards asked them not to express their gratitude in public.
It shows peace, aversion to evil, attention to the loss of people's hearts, and rewards and frugality.
At that time, few relatives had more than tens of millions of dollars, so Shaofu Shuiheng accumulated a lot of money.
Even in the bad years of Chuyuan and Yongguang, as well as the Xiqiang turmoil, the army was enshrined outside and the poor people were rescued inside, and there was never the worry of the country being in danger. This was because the reserves of the inner government were sufficient.
When Emperor Xiaocheng was Emperor Xiaocheng, his remonstrances were mostly about the harm of traveling incognito, as well as the exclusive favoring of female pets, indulgence in wine and sex, which damages one's moral character and shortens one's lifespan. These remarks were very sincere, but Emperor Xiaocheng never resented or got angry.
The favored ministers were Chunyu Chang, Zhang Fang, and Shi Yu. Shi Yu was demoted and resigned many times, and his family had less than ten million in assets. Zhang Fang was expelled and returned to the feudal state, and Chunyu Chang was tortured to death in prison.
He did not harm the morality of the country because of his personal favor. Therefore, despite the criticism from his concubines, the court was stable and peaceful, and his career was passed on to His Majesty.
When your Majesty was in the feudal state, he loved the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents, and advocated frugality. People on the way to the capital praised your virtues. This is because people in the world have changed their minds and hope that you can govern the country well.
As soon as His Majesty ascended the throne, he changed the curtains, removed the gorgeous silk fabrics, and only used thick silk fabrics for the trimmings of his clothes when riding in public seats.
The emperor's dormitory temple should have been built many times, but you were worried and pitiful for the people. Considering the lack of cost, you gave up your kindness out of morality, so you temporarily stopped the project and started building it now.
However, the Prince Consort Tong Xian was building an official office in Shanglin and building a large house for Dong Xian. He opened the gate to the north and directed the Wang Canal to feed the garden. He sent envoys to supervise the work and rewarded officials and soldiers. The scale was larger than the construction of the ancestral temple.
Dong Xian's mother was ill, and Chang'an's kitchen officials provided food for the sacrifices, and all the passers-by met on the way to pray were given food.
When the utensils are made for Dong Xian, they must be reported to you for approval. If some items are good, special rewards should be given to those craftsmen. The utensils contributed to the three palaces of the ancestral temple by yourself cannot reach this level.
Dong Xian's family had wedding banquets and meetings with relatives. The officials provided property and rewards to Cangtou's slaves, each of them worth one hundred thousand yuan.
Envoys were sent to monitor and collect the goods from the market. The merchants were shocked, the passers-by were noisy, and the officials were confused.
Shao Shu ordered the abolition of the garden system, but because Dong Xian was given more than 2,000 hectares of land, the land equalization system was destroyed.
Luxuriousness, arrogance and indulgence in desires, change and confusion of yin and yang, numerous disasters and visions, the people spread rumors, panicked with calculations in hand, fled with bare feet, horsemen galloped, God confused their will, making them unable to control themselves.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
或以为筹者策失之戒也。
陛下素仁智慎事，今而有此大讥。
孔子曰： 危而不持，颠而不扶，则将安用彼相矣！
臣嘉幸得备位，窃内悲伤不能通愚忠之信；身死有益于国，不敢自惜。
唯陛下慎己之所独乡，察众人之所共疑。
往者宠臣邓通、韩嫣骄贵失度，逸豫无厌，小人不胜情欲，卒陷罪辜。
乱国亡躯，不终其禄，所谓爱之适足以害之者也。
宜深览前世，以节贤宠，全安其命。
于是上寝不说，而愈爱贤，不能自胜。
会祖母傅太后薨，上因托傅太后遗诏。令成帝母王太后下丞相、御史，益封贤二千户，及赐孔乡侯、汝昌侯、阳新侯国。
嘉封还诏书，因奏封事谏上及太后曰： 臣闻爵禄土地，天之有也。
《书》云： 天命有德，五服五章哉！ 王者代天爵人，尤宜慎之。
裂地而封，不得其宜，则众庶不服，感动阴阳，其害疾自深。
今圣体久不平，此臣嘉所内惧也。
高安侯贤，佞幸之臣，陛下倾爵位以贵之，单货财以富之，损至尊以宠之，主威已黜，府藏已竭，唯恐不足。
财皆民力所为，孝文皇帝欲起露台，重百金之费，克己不作。
今贤散公赋以施私惠，一家至受千金，往古以来贵臣未尝有此，流闻四方，皆同怨之。
里谚曰： 千人所指，无病而死。
臣常为之寒心。
今太皇太后以永信太后遗诏，诏丞相、御史益贤户，赐三侯国，臣嘉窃惑。
山崩地动，日食于三朝，皆阴侵阳之戒也。
前贤已再封，晏、商再易邑，业缘私横求，恩已过厚，求索自恣，不知厌足，甚伤尊尊之义，不可以示天下，为害痛矣！
translation: 
Some people think this is a warning to the planners about their strategic mistakes.
Your Majesty has always been kind, wise, and prudent, but now he is being criticized so deeply.
Confucius said: If the country is in danger but cannot support it, if the country is overthrown but cannot support it, then why do you still appoint that person to be the prime minister?
I am fortunate enough to be in this position, but my inner sorrow in private cannot convey my loyal heart; if my death is beneficial to the country, then I dare not begrudge my life.
I hope that Your Majesty will be cautious about his own preferences and be aware of the common doubts of everyone.
The former favorites Deng Tong and Han Yan lost their restraint due to their arrogance and indulgence, and indulged themselves in entertainment without satisfaction. The humble people could not restrain their desires and finally fell into the category of sinners.
He who confuses the country and loses his life cannot always enjoy his salary. The so-called love for him is just harming him.
You should learn deeply from the previous generations, so as to restrain your love for Dong Xian to save his life.
As a result, the emperor gradually became unhappy, but he doted on Dong Xian even more and could not control himself.
When his grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, passed away, the emperor took the opportunity to ask the Empress Dowager Fu to issue an edict, asking the Emperor Cheng's mother, the Queen Mother, to grant the title of censor to the prime minister, grant Dong Xian 2,000 households, and grant land to the Marquis of Kongxiang, Marquis of Ruchang, and Marquis of Yangxin.
Wang Jia returned the edict and took the opportunity to write a sealed memorial to admonish the emperor and the queen mother: I heard that Juelu land is the property of God.
"Shangshu" says: The emperor appoints virtuous people with five kinds of clothing and five kinds of colorful medals. The king bestows titles on everyone on behalf of heaven, so he should be particularly cautious.
If the land is divided to grant titles, if it is not done properly, the people will not be convinced, and the yin and yang will be offended. The disadvantage is that it seriously endangers their own health.
Now that you have been feeling unwell for a long time, this is something that worries me, Wang Jia.
Dong Xian, Marquis of Gao'an, is a courtier who is favored by flattery. Your Majesty has given him a title to honor him, exhausted all his wealth to enrich him, and detracted from your most noble status to honor him. The majesty of the monarch has been weakened, and the reserves of the inner government have been exhausted. I am still afraid that I will not be able to satisfy him.
The property was obtained from the people's efforts. Emperor Xiaowen wanted to build a terrace, but he was stingy with the cost of hundreds of gold and restrained himself from building it.
Now Dong Xian distributes state funds to give personal favors, and his family is even given one thousand gold. This has never happened to a noble minister since ancient times. Rumors spread in all directions and the people all resented him.
A rural proverb says: A thousand people will point you to the enemy, and you will die without illness.
I often feel sad for him.
Now, the Empress Dowager Yongxin ordered the Prime Minister and Censor to increase Dong Xian's fiefdom and grant it to three marquises. Wang Jia was privately confused.
Landslides, earthquakes, and eclipses occur at the beginning of the year and month, and eclipses are all warnings against the invasion of yin and yang.
In the past, Dong Xian had been granted two titles, and Fu Yan and Fu Shang had also changed their titles twice. Zheng Ye demanded arbitrarily out of selfish motives, and the favor was too deep. He asked for wealth and position and allowed his own desires to be unsatisfied. This seriously damaged the righteousness of respecting the venerable master. If he could not tell this to the people of the world, the harm would be extremely serious!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
臣骄侵罔，阴阳失节，气感相动，害及身体。
陛下寝疾久不平，继嗣未立，宜思正万事，顺天人之心，以求福晁，奈何轻身肆意，不念高祖之勤苦垂立制度欲传之于无穷哉！
《孝经》曰： 天子有争臣七人，虽无道，不失其天下。
臣谨封上诏书，不敢露见，非爱死而不自法，恐天下闻之，故不敢自劾。
愚戆数犯忌讳，唯陛下省察。
初，廷尉梁相与丞相长史、御史中丞及五二千石杂治东平王云狱，时冬月未尽二旬，而相心疑云冤，狱有饰辞，奏欲传之长安，更下公卿复治。
尚书令鞫谭、仆射宗伯凤以为可许。
天子以相等皆见上体不平，外内顾望，操持两心，幸云逾冬，无讨贼疾恶主雠之意，制诏免相等皆为庶人。
后数月大赦，嘉奏封事荐相等明习治狱， 相计谋深沉，谭颇知雅文，凤经明行修，圣王有计功除过，臣窃为朝廷惜此三人。
书奏，上不能平。
后二十余日，嘉封还益董贤户事，上乃发怒，召嘉诣尚书，责问以： 相等前坐在位不尽忠诚，外附诸侯，操持两心，背人臣之义，今所称相等材美，足以相计除罪。
君以道德，位在三公，以总方略一统万类分明善恶为职，知相等罪恶陈列，著闻天下，时辄以自劾，今又称誉相等，云为朝廷惜之。
大臣举错，恣心自在，迷国罔上，近由君始，将谓远者何！
对状。
嘉免冠谢罪。
事下将军中朝者，光禄大夫孔光、左将军公孙禄、右将军王安、光禄勋马宫、光禄大夫龚胜劾嘉迷国罔上不道，请与廷尉杂治。
胜独以为嘉备宰相，诸事并废，咎由嘉生；嘉坐荐相等，微薄，以应迷国罔上不道，恐不可以示天下。
遂可光等奏。
translation: 
If the minister is arrogant and cunning, the yin and yang lose control, and the Qi and senses interact with each other, it will harm the body.
Your Majesty has been ill in bed for a long time and has not yet established a successor. You should consider revising various affairs and comply with the wishes of God and the people to seek blessings. Why should you despise yourself and indulge your desires and ignore the country that your great ancestor worked so hard to create and pass it on to infinite generations?
"The Classic of Filial Piety" says: The emperor has seven ministers who can calmly admonish him. Even if he is dishonest, he will not lose his world.
I sealed the edict respectfully and did not dare to show it to others. It was not because I was stingy with my life and did not respect the law, but because I was afraid that people in the world would know about it. So I dare not impeach myself.
The foolish minister has violated taboos many times, and I hope that your majesty can reflect carefully.
At the beginning, Ting Wei Liang Xiang, Prime Minister Chang Shi, Yu Shi Zhongcheng and five officials with two thousand stones jointly tried the case of Shuping King Liu Yun. At that time, the winter months had not passed yet. Liang Xiang suspected that Liu Yun was wronged and that the prison sentence was false. He wrote a memorial requesting that he be transferred to Chang'an and then sent to the minister for a new trial.
The minister ordered Tan Tan and Pushe Zongbofeng to approve it.
The emperor saw that the emperor was not in good health and looked around from inside and outside. He had two minds and hoped that Liu Yun would live through the winter and had no intention of attacking the traitors and hating the emperor's enemies. He issued an edict to depose Liang Xiang and others as common people.
A few months after the amnesty, Wang Jiajin wrote a sealed memorial recommending Liang Xiang and others to be proficient in handling prison cases. Liang Xiang was profound in planning, Tan Tan was good at making standardized documents, and Zong Bofeng was proficient in classics and moral principles. A wise monarch should count the merits of his ministers and absolve them of their faults. Privately, I felt sorry for these three people for the court.
The emperor was very unhappy when the memorial came to the emperor.
More than twenty days later, Wang Jiafeng gave Dong Xian the Shaoshu letter for adding a new household. The emperor became angry and summoned Wang Jia to the minister to question him. Liang Xiang and others were punished for not being loyal in their official positions, relying on the princes, having double-minded intentions, and violating the moral principles of ministers. Now you praise Liang Xiang and others for their talents, which is enough to measure their merits and exempt them from guilt.
Because of your moral character and your official position as one of the Three Dukes, you take it as your duty to make overall plans and unify all categories of people to distinguish between good and evil. Knowing that the crimes of Liang Xiang and others have been announced and shown to the world, you impeached yourself at that time. Now you praise Liang Xiang and others and say you feel sorry for them on behalf of the imperial court.
The ministers behave according to their own desires, confuse the country and deceive the Lord. The ministers who are close to you start from you, let alone those who are officials far away!
Answer with the form.
Wang Jia took off his imperial crown to plead guilty.
The matter was handed over to the general and the Nine Ministers for review. Kong Guang, the Guanglu doctor, Gongsun Lu, the left general, Wang An, the right general, Guanglu Xunma Gong, and Gong Sheng, the Guanglu doctor, impeached Wang Jia for confusing the country, bullying the emperor, and not upholding morality, and requested to be punished together with the Tingwei.
Gong Sheng personally believed that Jia Guan was the prime minister, and everything was abolished at the same time. The fault was caused by Gian Jia; Wang Jia was convicted of recommending Liang Xiang and others, which was too minor. It was used to correspond to the crime of confusing the country, bullying the emperor and not observing morality, and I am afraid it cannot be revealed to the world.
The emperor then agreed to the petition from Kong Guang and others.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
光等请谒者召嘉诣廷尉诏狱，制曰： 票骑将军、御史大夫、中二千石、二千石、诸大夫、博士、议郎议。
卫尉云等五十人以为： 如光等言可许。
议郎龚等以为： 嘉言事前后相违，无所执守，不任宰相之职，宜夺爵士，免为庶人。
永信少府猛等十人以为： 圣王断狱，必先原心定罪，探意立情，故死者不抱恨而入地，生者不衔怨而受罪。
明主躬圣德，重大臣刑辟，广延有司议，欲使海内咸服。
嘉罪名虽应法，圣王之于大臣，在舆为下，御坐则起，疾病视之无数，死则临吊之，废宗庙之祭，进之以礼，退之以义，诔之以行。
案嘉本以相等为罪，罪恶虽著，大臣括发关械、裸躬就笞，非所以重国褒宗庙也。
今春月寒气错缪，霜露数降，宜示天下以宽和。
臣等不知大义，唯陛下察焉。
有诏假谒者节，召丞相诣廷尉诏狱。
使者既到府，掾史涕泣，共和药进嘉，嘉不肯服。
主簿曰： 将相不对理陈冤，相踵以为故事，君侯宜引决。
使者危坐府门上。
主簿复前进药，嘉引药杯以击地，谓官属曰： 丞相幸得备位三公，奉职负国，当伏刑都市以示万众。
丞相岂儿女子邪，何谓咀药而死！
嘉遂装出，见使者再拜受诏，乘吏小车，去盖不冠，随使者诣廷尉。
廷尉收嘉丞相、新甫侯印绶，缚嘉载致都船诏狱。
上闻嘉生自诣吏，大怒，使将军以下与五二千石杂治。
吏诘问嘉，嘉对曰： 案事者思得实。
窃见相等前治东平王狱，不以云为不当死，欲关公卿示重慎；置驿马传囚，势不得逾冬月，诚不见其外内顾望阿附为云验。
translation: 
Kong Guang and others who asked for an audience summoned Wang Jia to Tingwei Shao Prison. The emperor ordered: General Hussar, Yu Shidafu, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, all the great officials, doctors, and Yilang will discuss it.
Wei Wei Liu Yun and other fifty people thought that Kong Guang and others could approve it.
Yilang Gong and others believed that Wang Jia was inconsistent with his opinions and had no certain standards. He was not qualified for the position of prime minister. His title and fief should be deprived of his title and he should be exempted from becoming a commoner.
Yongxin Shaofu Meng and other ten people believed that when a wise monarch handles a case, he must first explore his original intention to establish the crime, and explore his heart to establish the facts of the case. In this way, the dead will go to the ground without grudges, and the living will bear the punishment without grudges.
A wise monarch has the highest moral character, attaches great importance to the punishment of ministers, and invites officials to discuss extensively, so as to convince everyone in the world.
Although Wang Jia's crime was in compliance with the law, a sage monarch treated his ministers by getting down when he saw him in the carriage, standing up when he was sitting, visiting him many times when he was sick, and paying homage to him when he died. He even abolished the sacrifices in the ancestral temple, promoted him according to etiquette, dismissed him according to righteousness, and wrote remonstrances according to his virtue.
The reason for the investigation of Wang Jiaben was because Liang Xiang and others were convicted. Although the crime was very obvious, the ministers were flogged with their hair tied, wearing torture instruments, and naked. This was not a way of respecting the country and praising the ancestral temple.
This spring is full of cold weather and frost and dew have fallen many times. We should show our generosity and benevolence to the world.
Those of us who don't understand justice hope that your majesty can understand this matter clearly.
There was an edict to temporarily lend the talisman to the visitor and summon the prime minister to Tingwei's prison.
When the messenger arrived at Wang Jia's house, Shi Shi was crying and gave Wang Jia medicine together, but Wang Jia refused to take it.
The chief registrar said: It has become an old practice for generals and ministers not to state their grievances to the judge. You should commit suicide.
The messenger was sitting at the door of the mansion.
The chief registrar came forward to prescribe the medicine again. Wang Jia took the medicine cup and threw it to the ground. He said to his subordinates: "The Prime Minister is lucky enough to be in the position of the Third Duke. He has betrayed the country when performing his duties. He should be ambushed in the city to warn the world."
Is the Prime Minister a child? Why should he take medicine and die!
Wang Jia then dressed up and went out. When he saw the envoy, he bowed twice and accepted the imperial edict. He took a soldier's car with the cover off and followed the envoy to pay homage to the imperial officer.
The Tingwei took back the seal and ribbon of Wang Jia's prime minister Xinfuhou, bound Wang Jia and drove him to Duchuan Shao Prison in a car.
The emperor was furious when he heard that Wang Jia was still alive and had met with the officials. He sent officials below the general level and five officials with two thousand stones to jointly deal with it.
The jailer questioned Wang Jia, and Wang Jia replied: Those who investigate prison cases hope to get the facts.
I have seen privately that Liang Xiang and others handled Prince Ping's case in the past. I don't think Liu Yun deserves to die. I just need to be cautious in matters involving ministers. The preparation of post horses to transport prisoners must not exceed the winter months. There is indeed no evidence that they watched Afu Liu Yun inside and outside.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
复幸得蒙大赦，相等皆良善吏，臣窃为国惜贤，不私此三人。
狱吏曰： 苟如此，则君何以为罪犹当？
有以负国，不空入狱矣。
吏稍侵辱嘉，嘉喟然卬天叹曰： 幸得充备宰相，不能进贤、退不肖，以是负国，死有余责。
吏问贤、不肖主名，嘉曰： 贤，故丞相孔光、故大司空何武，不能进；恶，高安侯董贤父子，佞邪乱朝，而不能退。
罪当死，死无所恨。
嘉系狱二十余日，不食，欧血而死。
帝舅大司马票骑将军丁明素重嘉而怜之，上遂免明，以董贤代之，语在《贤传》。
嘉为相三年诛，国除。
死后上览其对而思嘉言，复以孔光代嘉为丞相，征用何武为御史大夫。
元始四年，诏书追录忠臣，封嘉子崇为新甫侯，追谥嘉为忠侯。
师丹字仲公，琅邪东武人也。
治《诗》，事匡衡。
举孝廉为郎。
元帝末，为博士，免。
建始中，州举茂才，复补博士，出为东平王太傅。
丞相方进、御史大夫孔光举丹论议深博、廉正守道，征入为光禄大夫、丞相司直。
数月，复以光禄大夫给事中，由是为少府、光禄勋、侍中，甚见尊重。
成帝末年，立定陶王为皇太子，以丹为太子太傅。
哀帝即位，为左将军，赐爵关内侯，食邑，领尚书事，遂代王莽为大司马，封高乐侯。
月余，徙为大司空。
上少在国，见成帝委政外家，王氏僣盛，常内邑邑。
即位，多欲有所匡正。
封拜丁、傅，夺王氏权。
丹自以师傅居三公位，得信于上，上书言： 古者谅闇不言，听于冢宰，三年无改于父之道。
translation: 
Fortunately, I was able to receive amnesty. Liang and others are gentle and kind officials. I selfishly cherish talented people for the country, and I am not partial to these three people.
The jailer said: If that's the case, why do you think the charges are still fair?
He must have failed the country and not be imprisoned without guilt.
The jailer slightly offended Wang Jia. Wang Jia looked up to the sky and sighed: "I am lucky enough to serve as prime minister. I cannot promote the talented and reject the stupid. Therefore, I have failed the country and will die with more responsibility."
The jailer asked the names of the virtuous and unworthy people, and Wang Jia said: The virtuous ones are Prime Minister Kong Guang and Sikong Hewu, and they cannot be promoted; the evil ones are Gao'an Marquis Dong Xian and his son, who are flattering and evil and disturb the court, but they cannot be removed.
My crime deserves death, and I will die without any resentment.
Wang Jia was detained in prison for more than 20 days. He refused to eat and vomited blood and died.
The emperor's uncle, the Grand Sima Hussar General Ding Ming, always valued Wang Jia and sympathized with him. The emperor then dismissed Ding Ming and replaced him with Dong Xian. This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Dong Xian".
Wang Jia was executed as prime minister for three years and his country was deprived of his title.
After his death, the emperor read his reply and thought about his words. He replaced Wang Jia with Kong Guang as prime minister, and recruited He Wu as the imperial censor.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, an edict was issued to pursue the loyal ministers. Wang Chong, Wang Jia's son, was granted the title of Xinfu Marquis, and Wang Jia of Mi was granted the title of Zhonghou.
Shidan's courtesy name was Zhonggong, and he was a native of Langye Dongwu.
He studied the Book of Songs and took Kuang Heng as his teacher.
Because of his filial piety and honesty, he became a man.
In the last years of Emperor Yuan's reign, he became a doctor and was later dismissed.
During the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the prefecture recommended Maocai, who was also appointed as a doctor and appointed as the Taifu of King Shuping.
Prime Minister Fang Jin and imperial censor Kong Guang recommended Shi Dan to be profound in discussion, honest and upright, and recruited him to Beijing to serve as Dr. Guanglu and Prime Minister Sizhi.
A few months later, he became a doctor of Guanglu and served in Shizhong. From then on, he was appointed Shaofu, Guangluxun and Shizhong, and he was very respected.
In the last years of Emperor Cheng's reign, he appointed King Dingtao as the Crown Prince and Shi Dan as the Crown Prince and Tutor.
When Emperor Ai ascended the throne, Shi Dan was appointed General Zuo, and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, a food town, and the office of Minister. He then replaced Wang Mang as the Grand Sima and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaole.
More than a month later, he was promoted to Da Sikong.
When the emperor was young and in a feudal state, he saw that Emperor Cheng had entrusted the political power to his relatives and that the Wang family had exceeded their authority and became powerful, so he was often worried and uneasy.
After taking the throne, he often tried to correct this situation.
The Ding family and the Fu family were given titles and officials to deprive the Wang family of their power.
Shi Dan held the third position as a master and was trusted by the emperor, so he wrote a memorial saying: In ancient times, emperors ignored political affairs while in mourning, and all officials obeyed the orders of the emperor, and did not change the policies of his father for three years.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
前大行尸柩在堂，而官爵臣等以及亲属，赫然皆贵宠。
封舅为阳安侯，皇后尊号未定，豫封父为孔乡侯。
出侍中王邑、射声校尉王邯等。
诏书比下，变动政事，卒暴无渐。
臣纵不能明陈大义，复曾不能牢让爵位，相随空受封侯，增益陛下之过。
间者郡国多地动，水出流杀人民，日月不明，王星失行，此皆举错失中，号令不定，法度失理，阴阳混浊之应也。
臣伏惟人情无子，年虽六七十，犹博取而广求。
孝成皇帝深见天命，烛知至德，以壮年克己，立陛下为嗣。
先帝暴弃天下而陛下继体，四海安宁，百姓不惧，此先帝圣德当合天人之功也。
臣闻天威不违颜咫尺，愿陛下深思先帝所以建立陛下之意，且克己躬行以观群下之从化。
天下者，陛下之家也。肺附何患不富贵，不宜仓卒。
先帝不量臣愚，以为太傅，陛下以臣托师傅，故亡功德而备鼎足，封大国，加赐黄金，位为三公，职在左右，不能尽忠补过，而令庶人窃议，灾异数见，此臣之大罪也。
臣不敢言乞骸骨归于海滨，恐嫌于伪。
诚惭负重责，义不得不尽死。
书数十上，多切直之言。
初，哀帝即位，成帝母称太皇太后，成帝赵皇后称皇太后，而上祖母傅太后与母丁后皆在国邸，自以定陶共王为称。
高昌侯董宏上书言： 秦庄襄王母本夏氏，而为华阳夫人所子，及即位后，俱称太后。
宜立定陶共王后为皇太后。
事下有司，时丹以左将军与大司马王莽共劾奏宏： 知皇太后尊之号，天下一统，而称引亡秦以为比喻，诖误圣朝，非所宜言，大不道。
translation: 
The late emperor's coffin is still in the palace, and you gave us and our relatives officials and titles, which made us all feel honored and honored.
The emperor's uncle was granted the title of Marquis of Yang'an. Before the queen's title was determined, her father was conferred the title of Marquis of Kongxiang in advance.
He also transferred Wang Yi, the sergeant in charge, Wang Han, the captain of Shesheng school, and others.
Edicts were issued frequently, and political affairs changed in a hurry and suddenly and could not be carried out step by step.
Even if I cannot express my righteousness clearly, I still cannot insist on accepting the title you bestowed upon me, and by being granted the title in vain, I am even more guilty of your fault.
Recently, there have been many earthquakes in the county, rivers bursting and causing harm to the people, the sun and the moon are unknown, and the five stars move out of order. These are all disasters caused by your lack of justice in your behavior, your orders being uncertain, your laws and regulations being unprincipled, and the turbid yin and yang.
I thought that human beings should not have no heirs, so even though I was sixty or seventy years old, I still wanted to marry more concubines and seek for more heirs.
Emperor Xiaocheng deeply understood the will of heaven and your supreme virtue. He restrained himself in his prime and made your majesty his heir.
The late emperor suddenly abandoned the world and your majesty inherited it. The world is peaceful and the people are not worried. This is the credit of the late emperor's holy virtues that are in line with the wishes of God and the people.
I heard that Tianwei is very close to the emperor. I hope that your majesty will think deeply about the late emperor's intention of appointing your majesty, and practice self-restraint to see that the people of the world will obey and become naturalized.
The world is your Majesty's home. Why don't your relatives and ministers lose their wealth? You shouldn't be too hasty.
The late emperor did not consider my stupidity and made me a tutor. Your Majesty, because I was a master appointed by the late emperor, I had no merit and held a high position. I was granted the title of a great country, bestowed with gold, and served as three princes. My duty was to assist the emperor. I could not be loyal to you to make up for your fault, but caused the people to talk in private and disasters happened many times. This is my grave sin.
I didn’t dare suggest that I beg for bones and return to the seaside of my hometown, for fear that I would be suspected of being pretentious.
I am truly ashamed that I have shouldered such a heavy responsibility, and I am morally obliged to die to fulfill my loyalty.
The memorial was written dozens of times, mostly with sincere and forthright words.
When Emperor Ai came to the throne, Emperor Cheng's mother was honored as the Empress Dowager, and Empress Cheng was honored as the Empress Dowager. The emperor's grandmother, Empress Dowager Fu, and mother, Empress Ding, both stayed in their residence in the feudal state and took the title of King Dingtao Gong.
Dong Hongjin, Marquis of Gaochang, wrote in a memorial that King Zhuangxiang of Qin's mother was originally from the Xia family, and he was raised as a son by Mrs. Huayang. After he came to the throne, both of them were honored as Queen Mother.
Queen Tao Gong should be made the Queen Mother.
The matter was reported to Yousi. At that time, Shi Dan, as General Zuo, impeached Dong Hong together with the Grand Sima Wang Mang. Knowing clearly that the Queen Mother is the most noble title and the world has been unified, but using the example that led to the fall of Qin as a metaphor to deceive and mislead the Ming Dynasty is not what a minister should say, and it is very unethical.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
上新立，谦让，纳用莽、丹言，免宏为庶人。
傅太后大怒，要上欲必称尊号，上于是追尊定陶共王为共皇帝，尊傅太后为共皇太后，丁后为共皇后。
郎中令泠褒、黄门郎段犹等复奏言： 定陶共皇太后、共皇后皆不宜复引定陶蕃国之名以冠大号，车马衣服宜皆称皇之意，置吏二千石以下各供厥职，又宜为共皇立庙京师。
上复下其议，有司皆以为宜如褒、犹言。
丹议独曰： 圣王制礼取法于天地，故尊卑之礼明则人伦之序正，人伦之序正则乾坤得其位而阴阳顺其节，人主与万民俱蒙晁福。
尊卑者，所以正天地之位，不可乱也。
今定陶共皇太后、共皇后以定陶共为号者，母从子、妻从夫之义也。
欲立官置吏，车服与太皇太后并，非所以明尊卑亡二上之义也。
定陶共皇号谥已前定，义不得复改。
《礼》： 父为士，子为天子，祭以天子，其尸服以士服。
子亡爵父之义，尊父母也。
为人后者为之子，故为所后服斩衰三年，而降其父母期，明尊本祖而重正统也。
孝成皇帝圣恩深远，故为共王立后，奉承祭祀，今共皇长为一国太祖，万世不毁，恩义已备。
陛下既继体先帝，持重大宗，承宗庙天地社稷之祀，义不得复奉定陶共皇祭入其庙。
今欲立庙于京师，而使臣下祭之，是无主也。
又亲尽当毁，空去一国太祖不堕之祀，而就无主当毁不正之礼，非所以尊厚共皇也。
丹由是浸不合上意。
会有上书言古者以龟贝为货，今以钱易之，民以故贫，宜可改币。
上以问丹，丹对言可改。
translation: 
The emperor was new to the throne and was very humble. He accepted the words of Wang Mang and Shi Dan and exempted Dong Hong from being a commoner.
Empress Dowager Fu was furious and forced the emperor to use his title. The emperor then honored King Ding Tao Gong as the Gong Emperor, the Empress Dowager Fu as the Gong Empress Dowager, and Empress Ding as the Gong Empress.
Lang Zhongling Lingbao, Huangmen Lang Duan You and others wrote again: Empress Dowager Dingtao and Empress Gong should no longer add the name of the Dingtao vassal state to their titles. The carriages, horses and clothes should be in line with the meaning of the emperor. Officials with less than 2,000 dan should be appointed to worship their respective positions, and an ancestral temple should be built in the capital for the emperor.
The emperor also issued a memorial to the ministers for discussion. Some ministers thought that it should be done as Lingbao and Duan You said.
Shi Dandan said: The sage king formulates etiquette and laws based on the laws of heaven and earth. Therefore, when the etiquette of honor and inferiority clarifies the order of human relations, the order will be correct. When the order of human relations is correct, the universe will adapt to its position and yin and yang will comply with its laws. The Lord and all the people will be blessed.
Honor and inferiority are used to correct the position of heaven and earth and cannot be disturbed.
Nowadays, the Empress Dowager Dingtao and Empress Gong take the title Dingtao Gong, which is in line with the moral principle of mother obeying her son and wife obeying her husband.
If you want to appoint officials, and the carriages, horses, and clothing are the same as those of the Queen Mother, it cannot be used to clarify the moral principles of superiority and inferiority and the indispensability of heaven and earth.
The title of Dingtao Gonghuang has been determined before, and logically it should not be changed.
"The Book of Rites" says: The father is a scholar and the son is the emperor. The sacrifices are made with the emperor's rites, and his corpse clothes are still the clothes of a scholar.
There is no reason for a son to knight his father. This is out of respect for his parents.
As a person, the latter is the son of a person, so he has to pay three years of filial piety to the person he inherits, but instead reduces the period of filial piety to his parents to one anniversary. This is clearly about respecting the ancestors and attaching importance to orthodoxy.
Emperor Xiaocheng's holy grace was profound, so he established a queen for King Gong and inherited the sacrifices. Now the Emperor Gong is the ancestor of a country, and will never be destroyed, and his kindness and morality are complete.
Your Majesty has inherited the body lineage of the late emperor, presided over the large number of sacrifices, and inherited the sacrifices of the heaven, earth and sheji in the ancestral temple. Logically speaking, he should not enshrine Emperor Dingtao into the ancestral temple.
Now it is necessary to build an ancestral temple in the capital and let the ministers worship him. This is without a master.
Moreover, family affection must be discarded when it is over. To give up the indestructible sacrifice of the ancestor of a country in vain, but to accept the improper etiquette that has no owner and should be destroyed. This cannot be said to be respecting and treating the common emperor.
As a result, Shi Dan gradually fell out of favor with the emperor.
Someone just happened to write a letter saying that in ancient times, turtle shells were used as currency, but now they are replaced with copper coins. As a result, the people are poor and the currency should be changed.
The emperor asked Shi Dan about this matter, and Shi Dan replied that it could be changed.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
章下有司议，皆以为行钱以来久，难卒变易。
丹老人，忘其前语，后从公卿议。
又丹使吏书奏，吏私写其草，丁、傅子弟闻之，使人上书告丹上封事行道人遍持其书。
上以问将军中朝臣，皆对曰： 忠臣不显谏，大臣奏事不宜漏泄，令吏民传写流闻四方。 臣不密则失身 ，宜下廷尉治。
事下廷尉，廷尉劾丹大不敬。
事未决，给事中博士申咸、炔钦上书言： 丹经行无比，自近世大臣能若丹者少。
发愤懑，奏封事，不及深思远虑，使主簿书，漏泄之过不在丹。
以此贬黜，恐不厌众心。
尚书劾咸、钦： 幸得以儒官选擢备腹心，上所折中定疑，知丹社稷重臣，议罪处罚，国之所慎，咸、钦初傅经义以为当治，事以暴列，乃复上书妄称誉丹，前后相违，不敬。
上贬咸、钦秩各二等。遂策免丹曰： 夫三公者，朕之腹心也。辅善相过，匡率百僚，和合天下者也。
朕既不明，委政于公，间者阴阳不调，寒暑失常，变异屡臻，山崩地震，河决泉涌，流杀人民，百姓流连，无所归心，司空之职尤废焉。
君在位也出入三年，未闻忠言嘉谋，而反有朋党相进不公之名。
乃者以挺力田议改币章示君，君内为朕建可改不疑；以君之言博考朝臣，君乃希众雷同，外以为不便，令观听者归非于朕。
朕隐忍不宣，为君受愆。
朕疾夫比周之徒虚伪坏化，寝以成俗，故屡以书饬君，几君省过求己，而反不受，退有后言。
translation: 
The memorial was sent to Yousi for discussion. They all believed that copper coins had been used for a long time and it was difficult to change immediately.
Shi Dan was old and forgot what he said before, but later he agreed with Gong Qing's opinion.
Another time, Shi Dan asked his officials to write a memorial, and the officials wrote the draft in private. Ding Ya and Xun's disciples heard about it and sent a letter to inform Shi Dan of the sealed memorial, but everyone on the road still kept the copy of the memorial.
The emperor asked the generals and Chinese and Korean ministers about this matter, and they all replied: Loyal ministers should not announce their advice, and ministers' reports should not be leaked and left to officials and people to write down and scatter in all directions. If a minister is not strict, his life will be lost, and he should be punished by a court official.
The matter was reported to Tingwei, who impeached Shi Dan for lese majeste.
The matter has not yet been decided, so a memorial was sent to the doctors Shen Xian and Ying Qinjin in the matter, saying that Shi Dan's Confucian skills and conduct were unmatched, and there were very few ministers like Shi Dan in modern times.
Out of anger, he wrote a sealed memorial without having time to think deeply, so he asked the chief bookkeeper to write it on his behalf. The fault of the leak was not Shi Dan's fault.
Therefore, deposing him may not convince everyone.
When the minister impeached Shen Xian and Ying Qin, he said: "I am fortunate to be able to select Confucian officials as close ministers. The emperor listens to their words to judge the matter and determine the doubts. Knowing that Shi Dan is an important minister of the country, he decided to convict and punish him. This is what the country should be cautious about. Shen Xian and Ying Qin originally followed the scriptures and believed that they should be punished. The matter has been revealed to everyone, but they wrote a letter to praise Shi Dan indiscriminately. It is inconsistent with the situation and is disrespectful."
The emperor devalued the palace rank of Shen Xian and Ying Qin by two levels each, so he dismissed Shi Dan and said: "Sangong is my trusted minister. He assists good deeds in examining mistakes, corrects and manages hundreds of officials, and is the person who coordinates and unifies the world."
Since I am not wise enough, I entrust you with political affairs. Recently, the yin and yang have been out of balance, the cold and heat have been abnormal, and mutations have occurred frequently. Landslides and earthquakes have occurred, rivers have burst their banks and springs have surged, causing flooding and harming the people. The people have no one to rely on, and the duties of Sikong are especially abandoned.
You have been in office for three years, and I have not heard your loyal words or good strategies. Instead, you have a reputation for being unfairly promoted by cronies.
In the past, I showed you the memorial of Tebalitian discussing the change of currency. You suggested to me in the palace that I could change it without any doubts. I brought your words to the courtiers for discussion, but you wanted to be like everyone else and thought it was inconvenient to change it outside, so that people who knew it would blame me.
I can't bear to say it out loud, so I can bear it for you.
I hate people who collude with each other. Hypocrisy hurts morals and has gradually become a custom. Therefore, I have written to you many times, hoping that you will reflect on yourself and find your fault. However, you refused to accept it and made some comments after you returned.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
及君奏封事，传于道路，布闻朝市，言事者以为大臣不忠，辜陷重辟，获虚采名，谤讥匈匈，流于四方。
腹心如此，谓疏者何？
殆谬于二人同心之利焉，将何以率示群下，附亲远方？
朕惟君位尊任重，虑不周密，怀谖迷国，进退违命，反复异言，甚为君耻之，非所以共承天地，永保国家之意。
以君尝托傅位，未忍考于理，已诏有司赦君勿治。
其上大司空高乐侯印绶，罢归。
尚书令唐林上疏曰： 窃见免大司空丹策书，泰深痛切，君子作文，为贤者讳。
丹经为世儒宗，德为国黄耇，亲傅圣躬，位在三公，所坐者微，海内未见其大过，事既已往，免爵大重，京师识者咸以为宜复丹邑爵，使奉朝请，四方所瞻仰也。
惟陛下财览众心，有以尉复师傅之臣。
上从林言，下诏赐丹爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
丹既免数月，上用朱博议，尊傅太后为皇太太后，丁后为帝太后，与太皇太后及皇太后同尊，又为共皇立庙京师，仪如孝元皇帝。
博迁为丞相，复与御史大夫赵玄奏言： 前高昌侯宏首建尊号之议，而为丹所劾奏，免为庶人。
时天下衰粗，委政于丹。丹不深惟褒广尊亲之义而妄称说，抑贬尊号，亏损孝道，不忠莫大焉。
陛下圣仁，昭然定尊号，宏以忠孝复封高昌侯。
丹恶逆暴著，虽蒙赦令，不宜有爵邑，请免为庶人。
奏可。
丹于是废归乡里者数年。
translation: 
When you submit a sealed memorial, it circulates among passers-by and spreads so that everyone in the court and streets knows about it. Those who are impeaching think that the minister is loyal and should be beheaded according to the crime, and gain a false reputation, causing slander and accusations to spread in all directions.
If the close ministers are like this, what will happen to the distant ministers?
Probably the mistake is in the statement of the benefits of two people being of the same mind, and why should they lead the group and make people close to each other from afar?
I consider that your position is noble and you have great responsibilities, but you do not think things through carefully, you have deceitful intentions and confuse the country, you disobey orders between advance and retreat, and you make contradictory statements repeatedly. I am very ashamed of you, and you are not used to realize the common inheritance of the world. To protect the country forever.
Because you were once entrusted as a master, and you cannot bear to let the judge examine you, you have been ordered to pardon you and not to punish you.
He handed over the seal and ribbon of Grand Sikong Gaolehou, dismissed his official position and returned home.
The minister ordered Tang Lin to write a memorial saying: I have privately seen the strategy document of Mian Da Sikong, and the accusation is too profound. A gentleman should cover up his writing for the sage.
Shi Dan was a Confucian scholar of the time, and his virtue was that of an elder in the country. He personally taught His Majesty, and he was ranked as the Third Duke. His crime was very minor, and no one in the country saw him doing any serious wrong. Now that the matter has passed, the punishment of being exempted from the title was too severe. The knowledgeable people in the capital all thought that Shi Dan should be restored to his fiefdom and title, and let him serve at the court's invitation. This is what people from all over the world are looking forward to.
I hope that your Majesty will be able to understand everyone's feelings and be able to comfort and repay the minister who is your master.
The emperor listened to Tang Lin's words and ordered Shidan to be granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
A few months after Shi Dan was deposed, the emperor adopted Zhu Bo's suggestion and honored Empress Dowager Fu as the Empress Dowager, and Empress Ding as the Imperial Empress Dowager, with the same dignity as the Empress Dowager and the Empress Dowager. He also built an ancestral temple in the capital for the Communist Emperor, with the same etiquette as Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Zhu Bo was promoted to prime minister, and he and the imperial censor Daxuan Tangxuan reported: Dong Hong, the former Marquis of Gaochang, first proposed the idea of ​​establishing a title, but was impeached by Shi Dan and exempted from being a commoner.
At that time, there was a funeral in the world, and political affairs were entrusted to Shi Dan. Shi Dan did not carefully consider the principle of praising and promoting respect for relatives, but made random remarks, belittled the title, and damaged filial piety. There is no greater disloyalty than this.
His majesty is saintly and kind, so he clearly established his honorary title. Dong Hong was also granted the title of Marquis of Gaochang because of his loyalty and filial piety.
Shi Dan's crime of disobeying the emperor's order was obvious. Although he was pardoned, he should not enjoy the title or fief. I asked him to be exempted from being a commoner.
The petition was approved.
Shi Dan was dismissed and returned to his hometown for many years.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
平帝即位，新都侯王莽白太皇太后发掘傅太后、丁太后冢，夺其玺授，更以民葬之，定陶隳废共皇庙。
诸造议泠褒、段犹等皆徙合浦，复免高昌侯宏为庶人。
征丹诣公车，赐爵关内侯，食故邑。
数月，太皇太后诏大司徒、大司空曰： 夫褒有德，赏元功，先圣之制，百王不易之道也。
故定陶太后造称僣号，甚悖义理。关内侯师丹端诚于国，不顾患难，执忠节，据圣法，分明尊卑之制，确然有柱石之固，临大节而不可夺，可谓社稷之臣矣。
有司条奏邪臣建定称号者已放退，而丹功赏未加，殆缪乎先赏后罚之义，非所以章有德报厥功也。
其以厚丘之中乡户二千一百封丹为义阳侯。
月余薨，谥曰节侯。
子业嗣，王莽败乃绝。
赞曰：何武之举，王嘉之争，师丹之议，考其祸福，乃效于后。
当王莽之作，外内咸服，董贤之爱，疑于亲戚，武、嘉区区，以一蕢障江河，用没其身。
丹与董宏更受赏罚，哀哉！
故曰 依世则废道，违俗则危殆 ，此古人所以难受爵位者也。
translation: 
When Emperor Ping came to the throne, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, reported to the Empress Dowager that he excavated the tombs of Empress Dowager Fu and Empress Dowager Ding, stripped them of their seals and ribbons, and buried them with common people's rites. Ding Tao destroyed the Gonghuang Temple.
Those who suggested this matter, such as Lingli, Duan You and others, were exiled to Hepu, and Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, was deposed as a commoner.
He summoned Shi Dan to the public transport department and granted him the title of Marquis of Guannei, enjoying the original fiefdom.
A few months later, the Empress Dowager Shao ordered the Great Situ and the Great Sikong to say: "Reward those who are virtuous and reward the ministers who have made the most contributions. This is the system of the sages and the unchanging rule of emperors of all dynasties."
The former Empress Dowager Tao of Dingtao used her honorary title in vain, which was very contrary to justice. Hou Shidan of Guan Nei was loyal and upright to the country, regardless of adversity, adhered to loyalty and integrity, followed the laws of the Holy King, and clearly distinguished the system of superiority and inferiority.
According to Si Tiao Chen's suggestion, the evil minister who was given the honorary title has been demoted or dismissed, but Shi Dan did not add rewards based on his merits. I am afraid that it violates Miao's principle of rewarding first and punishing later, and cannot promote virtue to repay his merits.
Now, 2,100 households in Zhongxiang, Houqiu, are granted the title of Yiyang Marquis.
More than a month later, Shi Dan passed away and Mi was named Jiehou.
His son Shiye inherited the title, which was discontinued after Wang Mang's defeat.
Praise said: He Wu's memorial, Wang Jia's admonishment, Shi Dan's ideas, and the examination of their misfortunes and blessings all came true in the future.
When Wang Mang arose and everyone inside and outside was convinced, Dong Xian was favored as much as the emperor's relatives. He Wu and Wang Jia's ministers blocked the rivers with a piece of loess, thereby drowning themselves.
Shi Dan and Dong Hong were rewarded and punished alternately. How sad!
Therefore, it is said that following the world will abandon the right path, and going against the world will harm oneself. This is the reason why the ancients found it difficult to receive titles.


