Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 5, 8, 20, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
西羌之本，出自三苗，姜姓之别也。
其国近南岳。
及舜流四凶，徙之三危，河关之西南羌地是也。滨于赐支，至乎河首，绵地千里。
赐支者，《禹贡》所谓析支者也。
南接蜀、汉徼外蛮夷，西北接鄯善、车师诸国。
所居无常，依随水草。
地少五谷，以产牧为业。
其俗氏族无定，或以父名母姓为种号。
十二世后，相与婚姻，父没则妻后母，兄亡则纳嫂，故国无鳏寡，种类繁炽。
不立君臣，无相长一，强则分种为酋豪，弱则为人附落，更相抄暴，以力为雄。
杀人偿死，无它禁令。
其兵长在山谷，短于平地，不能持久，而果于触突，以战死为吉利，病终为不祥。
堪耐寒苦，同之禽兽。
虽妇人产子，亦不避风雪。
性坚刚勇猛，得西方金行之气焉。
王政修则宾服，德教失则寇乱。
昔夏后氏太康失国，西夷背叛。
及后相即位，乃征畎夷，七年然后来宾。
至于后泄，始加爵命，由是服从。
后桀之乱，畎夷入居邠、岐之间，成汤既兴，伐而攘之。
及殷室中衰，诸夷皆叛。
至于武丁，征西戎、鬼方，三年乃克。
故其诗曰： 自彼氐羌，莫敢不来王。
及武乙暴虐，犬戎寇边，周古公逾梁山而避于岐下。
及子季历，遂伐西落鬼戎。
太丁之时，季历复伐燕京之戎，戎人大败周师。
后二年，周人克余无之戎，于是太丁命季历为牧师。
自是之后，更伐始呼、翳徒之戎，皆克之。
translation: 
Xiqiang originally came from Sanmiao, another branch of the Jiang surname.
The Western Qiang Kingdom is close to Nanyue.
When Shun exiled four stubborn people, he exiled them to Sanwei, which is the Qiang area southwest of Heguan. This area is wrapped around the Cizhi River and stretches for thousands of miles to the head of Cizhi River.
The gift branch is the analysis branch mentioned in "Yu Gong".
This area borders the barbarians outside the borders of Shu and Han to the south, and borders Shanshan, Cheshi and other countries to the northwest.
The Xiqiang people do not have fixed residences. They migrate with water and grass.
Grains are rarely grown on this land, and they mainly rely on livestock raising.
The custom of Xiqiang is that clans are not fixed. Some clans use the father's name and the mother's surname as the title of their tribe.
After the twelfth generation, clans intermarry with each other. After the father dies, he marries his stepmother, and after his elder brother dies, he marries his widower. Therefore, there are no widowers or widows in the Xiqiang country, and the population reproduces quickly.
Xiqiang does not have a king or ministers, and no one is its leader. If the power is strong, they will separate into races and become chiefs. If the power is weak, they will become subordinate tribes of others. They plundered and invaded each other, ruling the roost with violence.
Kill for life, there is no other prohibition.
The soldiers of Xiqiang are good at fighting in the valleys, but not on the plains; they cannot fight for a long time, but they dare to charge into battle; they regard death in battle as auspicious, while death from illness is considered unlucky.
The Xiqiang people can endure cold and hardship just like animals.
Even when women give birth to children, they do not hide from the wind and snow.
The Xiqiang people are strong and brave in fighting for the land, and they have accepted the energy of the metal element in the five elements and the west.
If the emperor's government is clear and clear, the barbarians will surrender; if the emperor loses virtue and education, the barbarians will invade and cause chaos.
In the past, Taikang, the king of the Xia Dynasty, lost the world and all the barbarians rebelled.
When the later prime minister came to the throne, he conquered the Yiyi. Seven years later, the Yiyi came to submit.
After Houxie, the title of nobility was added to Ruyi, and Ruyi obeyed the Xia Dynasty from then on.
When Hou Jie was in turmoil, the Yi people came to live in the Linqi area. After the rise of Chengtang, he conquered the Yiyi and made them retreat.
When the Yin Dynasty weakened in the middle period, all barbarians rebelled.
When Wuding arrived, he conquered Xirong and Guifang, and it took three years to conquer them.
So the poem says: Since the time of Di Qiang, no one has dared not to come to pay homage to the Emperor.
When Wu Yi was brutal and cruel, and the dog soldiers invaded the border, Zhou Gugong Yi's father crossed Liangshan and took refuge at the foot of Qishan Mountain.
At the time of his son Ji Li, he conquered the Xiluo Guirong.
During the reign of Taiding, Ji Li attacked the Rong tribe in Yanjing, and the Rong tribe defeated Zhou's army.
Two years later, when Zhou's troops defeated Yu Wu's Rong tribe, Taiding appointed Ji Li as priest.
From then on, Ji Li attacked the Rong tribe of Shihu and Yitu, and won both of them.
summary:
The Xiqiang people, originally from Sanmiao, a branch of the Jiang surname, lived in a region near Nanyue, stretching from the Cizhi River to the borders of Shu and Han in the south and Shanshan and Cheshi in the northwest. They were nomadic, migrating with water and grass, relying primarily on livestock rather than grain. Their society lacked fixed clans, with tribes named after paternal or maternal lines. After twelve generations, intermarriage occurred, and customs included marrying stepmothers after a father's death and widows after an elder brother's death, leading to rapid population growth. They had no central ruler; power determined leadership, with violence and plunder common. Their soldiers excelled in valley combat but not on plains, valued death in battle over illness, and endured harsh conditions.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃文王为西伯，西有昆夷之患，北有猃狁之难，遂攘戎狄而戍之，莫不宾服。
乃率西戎，征殷之叛国以事纣。
及武王伐商，羌、髳率师会于牧野。
至穆王时，戎狄不贡，王乃西征犬戎，获其五王，又得四白鹿，四白狼，王遂迁戎于太原。
夷王衰弱，荒服不朝，乃命虢公率六师伐太原之戎，至于俞泉，获马千匹。
厉王无道，戎狄寇掠，乃入犬丘，杀秦仲之族。王命伐戎，不克。
及宣王立四年，使秦仲伐戎，为戎所杀。
王乃召秦仲子庄公，与兵七千人伐戎，破之，由是少却。
后二十七年，王遣兵伐太原戎，不克。
后五年，王伐条戎、奔戎，王师败绩。
后二年，晋人败北戎于汾隰，戎人灭姜侯之邑。
明年，王征申戎，破之。
后十年，幽王命伯士伐六济之戎，军败，伯士死焉。
其年，戎围犬丘，虏秦襄公之兄伯父。
时幽王昏虐，四夷交侵，遂废申后而立褒姒。
申侯怒，与戎寇周，杀幽王于郦山，周乃东迁洛邑，秦襄公攻戎救周。
后二年，邢侯大破北戎。
及平王之末，周遂陵迟，戎逼诸夏，自陇山以东，及乎伊、洛，往往有戎。
于是渭首有狄、豸原、邽、冀之戎，泾北有义渠之戎，洛川有大荔之戎，渭南有骊戎，伊、洛间有杨拒、泉皋之戎，颍首以西有蛮氏之戎。
当春秋时，间在中国，与诸夏盟会。
鲁庄公伐秦，取邽、冀之戎。
后十余岁，晋灭骊戎。是时，伊、洛戎强，东侵曹、鲁。后十九年，遂入王城。于是秦、晋伐戎以救周。
后二年，又寇京师，齐桓公征诸侯戍周。
后九年，陆浑戎自瓜州迁于伊川，允姓戎迁于渭汭，东及辕。
在河南山北者号曰阴戎，阴戎之种遂以滋广。
晋文公欲修霸业，乃赂戎狄通道，以匡王室。
秦穆公得戎人由余，遂霸西戎，开地千里。
及晋悼公，又使魏绛和诸戎，复修霸业。
是时，楚、晋强盛，威服诸戎，陆浑、伊、洛、阴戎事晋，而蛮氏从楚。
后陆浑叛晋，晋令荀吴灭之。
translation: 
When King Wen was appointed as the Western Bodhisattva, there were Kun barbarians to the west of the Zhou Dynasty, and there were dangers to the north from the Ming dynasties. So King Wen repulsed the Rong and Di and garrisoned troops there, and all of the Rong and Di surrendered.
King Wen then commanded the Xirong and conquered the countries that had betrayed the Yin and Shang dynasties to serve King Zhou.
When King Wu attacked Shang, the Qiang people and Zhang Ren led their troops to meet in Muye.
At the time of King Mu, the Rongdi did not pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty. King Mu then marched westward against the Quanrong, captured the five kings of the Quanrong, and obtained four white deer and four white wolves. King Mu then moved the Rong people to Taiyuan.
During the reign of King Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the Rong people from the outlying areas did not come to worship. The emperor ordered Duke Guo to lead a division of six armies to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan as far as Yuquan and obtained a thousand horses.
King Li was cruel, and the Rong and Di invaded and plundered. He even entered Quanqiu and killed Qin Zhong's family. The emperor ordered to conquer the Rong people, but they could not win.
In the fourth year after King Xuan succeeded to the throne, he sent Qin Zhong to attack the Rong people, but Qin Zhong was killed by the Rong people.
The emperor then summoned Duke Zhuang, son of Qin Zhong, and gave him seven thousand troops to conquer the Rong people. He defeated the Rong people, and the Rong people retreated slightly.
Twenty-seven years later, the emperor sent an army to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan, but could not win.
Five years later, the emperor conquered Tiao Rong and Ben Rong, and the emperor's army was defeated by the Rong people.
Two years later, the Jin people defeated the Beirong at Xiaxi by the Fen River. The Rong people also destroyed Jianghou's fiefdom.
The next year, the emperor conquered Shen Rong and defeated him.
Ten years later, King You ordered Bo Shi to conquer the Rong people in Liuji. As a result, the army was defeated and Bo Shi died there.
This year, the Rong people surrounded Quanqiu and captured Qin Xianggong's brother and uncle.
At that time, King You was fatuous and cruel, and barbarians from all directions invaded alternately. As a result, King You deposed Queen Shen and made Bao Si the queen.
The Marquis of Shen was angry, so he invaded the Zhou Dynasty with his troops and killed King You in Mount Li. Zhou then moved eastward to Luoyi, and Qin Xianggong attacked the Rong people to rescue the Zhou Dynasty.
Two years later, Xinghou defeated Beirong.
By the end of King Ping's reign, the Zhou Dynasty finally weakened. The Rong people are approaching the Central Plains, and there are Rong people everywhere from Longshan to the east to Yishui and Luoshui.
At this time, there were the armies of Di, Xi, Bang, and Ji in the upper reaches of the Wei River, the Rong of Yiqu in the north of the Jing River, the Rong of Dali in the Luo River, the Li Rong in the south bank of the Wei River, the Rong of Yang Ju and Quan Gao in the upper reaches of the Yishui River, and the Rong of Manshi in the west of the upper reaches of the Ying River.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Rong people occasionally entered the Central Plains and participated in alliances with various Chinese countries.
Duke Zhuang of Lu attacked Qin and captured the state and the army of Ji.
More than ten years later, Jin lost Li Rong. At this time, Yi and Luo Zhirong became stronger and invaded Cao and Lu eastward. Nineteen years later, they finally entered the capital of the emperor. So Qin and Jin attacked the Rong people to rescue the emperor of Zhou.
Two years later, the Rong invaded the capital again. Duke Huan of Qi fine-tuned the troops of the princely states to garrison in Zhou.
Nine years later, Lu Hunrong moved from Guazhou to Yichuan, and Yunrong moved to the Weishui and Youshui areas, and he arrived in Nanyuan with his face tied.
Those south of the Yellow River and north of the mountains are called Yinrong, and the Yinrong race multiplies more and more.
Duke Wen of Jin wanted to establish his hegemony, so he bribed Rong Di and asked them to open a road to assist the emperor of Zhou.
Duke Mugong of Qin got the rest of the Rong people and finally dominated Xirong and opened up thousands of miles of land.
At the time of Duke Mourning of the Jin Dynasty, Wei Jiang was sent to make peace with the Rong and once again established his hegemony.
At this time, Chu and Jin were very powerful and used their power to make the Rong obey. Lu Hun, Yi, Luo, and Yin Rong served Jin, but the Man clan followed Chu.
Later, Lu Hun betrayed the Jin State, and the Jin State sent Xun Wu to eliminate Lu Hun.
summary:
Historically, the Xiqiang's relationship with Chinese dynasties fluctuated. During the Xia Dynasty, Taikang's loss of control led to barbarian rebellion, but later rulers like Houxiang and Houxie subdued them. Under the Yin Dynasty, Wuding conquered Xirong and Guifang, but Wu Yi's brutality provoked Dog Soldier invasions. The Zhou Dynasty saw King Wen and King Wu command Xirong, while King Mu campaigned against Quanrong. As Zhou weakened, Rong tribes invaded, leading to conflicts with Qin and Jin. During the Spring and Autumn period, Rong groups like Yiqu and Dali grew powerful, building cities and claiming kingship. Qin gradually absorbed them, with King Zhao of Qin destroying Yiqu in the 4th century BCE.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
十年，先零豪与诸种相结，复寇金城、陇西，遣中郎将来歙等击之，大破。事已具《歙传》。
十一年夏，先零种复寇临洮，陇西太守马援破降之。
后悉归服，徙置天水、陇西、扶风三郡。
明年，武都参狼羌反，援又破降之。
事已具《援传》。
自烧当至滇良，世居河北大允谷，种小人贫。
而先零、卑湳并皆强富，数侵犯之。
滇良父子积见陵易，愤怒，而素有恩信于种中，于是集会附落及诸杂种，乃从大榆入，掩击先零、卑湳，大破之，杀三千人，掠取财畜，夺居其地大榆中，由是始强。
滇良子滇吾立。
中元元年，武都参狼羌反，杀略吏人，太守与战不胜，陇西太守刘盱遣从事辛都、监军掾李苞，将五千人赴武都，与羌战，斩其酋豪，首虏千余人。
时，武都兵亦更破之，斩首千余级，余悉降。
时滇吾附落转盛，常雄诸羌，每欲侵边者，滇吾转教以方略，为其渠帅。
二年秋，烧当羌滇吾与弟滇岸率步骑五千寇陇西塞，刘盱遣兵于枹罕击之，不能克，又战于允街，为羌所败，杀五百余人。
于是守塞诸羌皆复相率为寇。
遣谒者张鸿领诸郡兵击之，战于允吾、唐谷，军败，鸿及陇西长史田飒皆没。
又天水兵为牢姐种所败于白石，死者千余人。
时，烧何豪有妇人比铜钳者，年百余岁，多智算，为种人所信向，皆从取计策。
时为卢水胡所击，比铜钳乃将其众来依郡县。
种人颇有犯法者，临羌长收系比铜钳，而诛杀其种六七百人。
显宗怜之，乃下诏曰： 昔桓公伐戎而无仁惠。故《春秋》贬曰： 齐人 。
今国家无德，恩不及远，羸弱何辜，而当并命！
translation: 
Ten years later, the chiefs of Xianling colluded with the Qiang people of other tribes and invaded Jincheng and Longxi again. The imperial court sent Zhonglang Lai She and others to attack the invading Qiang people, and defeated the Qiang people. The incident has been recorded in the "Biography of Lai She".
In the summer of the eleventh year, Xian Lingzhong invaded Lintao again. Ma Yuan, the prefect of Longxi, defeated Xian Lingzhong and made them surrender.
Later, all the Qiang people surrendered, and the imperial court moved the Qiang people to Tianshui, Longxi, and Fufeng counties.
The next year, the Shenlang Qiang in Wudu rebelled, and Ma Yuan defeated the Shenlang Qiang and made them surrender.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of Ma Yuan".
From Shaodang to Dianliang, they lived in the Dayun Valley north of the Yellow River for generations. The tribe was small and the people were poor.
However, Xianling and Beinan were powerful and wealthy, and invaded Yunnan Liang many times.
Dian Liang and his son had been bullied and slighted for a long time, and they were very angry. Moreover, they usually had kindness and loyalty in the tribe, so Dian Liang joined the affiliated tribes and other mixed tribes, marched from Dayu Valley, and suddenly attacked Xianling and Bei'an. They defeated Xianling and Bei'an. They killed 3,000 people, plundered property and livestock, and seized the central area of ​​Dayu Valley as their residence. From then on, they became powerful.
Dian Liang's son Dian Wu succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the Shenlang Qiang in Wudu rebelled, killing and plundering officials and people. The prefect fought with the Shenlang Qiang, but failed to win. The Longxi prefect Liu Xu sent Li Bao, an officer from Xindu and the supervisor of the army, to lead five thousand people to Wudu and fight against the Qiang. They killed the Qiang leader and killed and captured more than a thousand Qiang people.
At this time, Wudu's army also defeated the Qiang people, killing more than a thousand people, and the rest of the Qiang people surrendered.
At that time, Dianwu's subordinate tribes became powerful and often dominated the Qiang tribes. Anyone who wanted to invade the border, Dianwu taught them strategies and became their big leader.
In the autumn of the second year, Shaodang Qiang Dianwu and his younger brother Dian'an led 5,000 infantry and cavalry to invade the Longxi border fortress. Liu Xu sent troops to attack Dianwu in Paohan, but could not win. They fought again in Yunjie and were defeated by the Qiang. More than 500 people were killed.
At this time, the Qiang people of various tribes who guarded the fortress followed and invaded the border one after another.
The imperial court sent envoy Zhang Hong to lead the troops from various counties to attack the Qiang people. They fought at Yunwu and Tanggu, but were defeated. Zhang Hong and Longxi Chief Shi Tiansa both died.
Tianshui's army was defeated by Lao Jiezhong at Baishi, and more than a thousand people died.
At that time, among the leaders of Shaohe, there was a woman named Bi Tongqi, who was more than a hundred years old and very resourceful. She was trusted and respected by the people in the tribe, and everyone listened to her for advice.
Bitongqiu was attacked by Lu Shuihu, so she led her troops to defect to the county.
Many people in the tribe broke the law, so the chief of Linqiang arrested and imprisoned Bitongqi, and killed six to seven hundred people from the Bitongqi tribe.
Emperor Xianzong sympathized with her and issued an edict saying: In the past, Duke Huan of Qi conquered the Rong people without kindness and kindness, so the Spring and Autumn Annals derogatoryly called Duke Huan of Qi "people of Qi".
Today's country lacks benevolence, and the kindness cannot reach far away. What sin does the old and the weak have? Instead, they lose their lives together!
summary:
Under the Han Dynasty, the Xiqiang faced expulsion and relocation. Emperor Wu expanded borders, building fortresses and separating Qiang from Xiongnu. In 42 BCE, Xianling Qiang allied with Xiongnu, attacking Lingju and Paohan, but were suppressed by General Li Xi. Later, Zhao Chongguo defeated them in 60 BCE. During Wang Mang's reign, Qiang lands were seized, but after his fall, they rebelled. In 25 CE, Guangwu restored the Qiang Protectorate, but conflicts persisted. Ma Yuan defeated Qiang rebellions in 35 CE, moving them to Tianshui and Longxi. By 58 CE, Dianwu's rebellion was crushed, and Qiang were resettled in Sanfu.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
肃宗下诏追褒美之。封其子毅为明进侯，七百户。
以陇西太守张纡代为校尉，将万人屯临羌。
迷吾既杀傅育，狃忕边利。
章和元年，复与诸种步骑七千人入金城塞。
张纡遣从事司马防将千余骑及金城兵会战于木乘谷，迷吾兵败走，因译使欲降，纡纳之。
遂将种人诣临羌县，纡设兵大会，施毒酒中，羌饮醉，纡因自击，伏兵起，诛杀酋豪八百余人。
斩迷吾等五人头，以祭育冢。
复放兵击在山谷间者，斩首四百余人，得生口二千余人。
迷吾子迷唐及其种人向塞号哭，与烧何、当煎、当阗等相结，以子女及金银娉纳诸种，解仇交质，将五千人寇陇西塞，太守寇盱与战于白石，迷唐不利，引还大、小榆谷，北招属国诸胡，会集附落，种众炽盛，张纡不能讨。
永元元年，纡坐征，以张掖太守邓训代为校尉，稍以赏赂离间之，由是诸种少解。
东吾子东号立。
是时，号吾将其种人降。
校尉邓训遣兵击迷唐，迷唐去大、小榆谷，徙居颇岩谷。
和帝永元四年，训病卒，蜀郡太守聂尚代为校尉。
尚见前人累征不克，欲以文德服之，乃遣驿使招呼迷唐，使还居大、小榆谷。
迷唐既还，遣祖母卑缺诣尚，尚自送至塞下，为设祖道，令译田汜等五人护送至庐落。
迷唐因而反叛，遂与诸种共生屠裂汜等，以血盟诅，复寇金城塞。
五年，尚坐征免，居延都尉贯友代为校尉。
友以迷唐难用德怀，终于叛乱，乃遣驿使构离诸种，诱以财货，由是解散。
友乃遣兵出塞，攻迷唐于大、小榆谷，获首虏八百余人，收麦数万斛，遂夹逢留大河筑城坞，作大航，造河桥，欲度兵击迷唐。
translation: 
Suzong issued an edict to commemorate and praise Fu Yu, and named his son Fu Yi the Marquis of Ming Dynasty, granting him a fief of 700 households.
Zhang Yu, the governor of Longxi, was appointed to succeed the captain and led 10,000 people to garrison Linqiang.
Miwu has already killed Fu Yu and is used to getting benefits at the border.
In the first year of Zhanghe, Miwu and seven thousand infantry and cavalry from various tribes entered the Jincheng border fortress.
Zhang Yu sent Sima Fang to lead more than a thousand cavalry and Jincheng's troops to fight Miwu in Mucheng Valley. Miwu's army was defeated and fled. Miwu planned to surrender through an interpreter, and Zhang Yu agreed.
Miwu then led people from the same tribe to Linqiang County. Zhang Yu deployed his troops, held a meeting, and put poison in the wine. After the Qiang people got drunk, Zhang Yu took the opportunity to take action himself, ambushed all four, and killed more than 800 Qiang leaders.
Zhang Yu cut off the heads of Miwu and five other people and used them to pay homage to Fu Yu's grave.
He also allowed his troops to attack the Qiang people in the valley, killing more than 400 people and capturing more than 2,000 people alive.
Miwu's son Mitang and the people of his tribe cried towards the frontier fortress. They colluded with the Shaohe, Dangjian, Dangtian and other tribes, and used their children and gold and silver to recruit and accept the Qiang people of each tribe to resolve hatred and exchange hostages. Mi Tang led 5,000 troops to invade the Longxi frontier fortress. The prefect Kou Xu fought with Mi Tang at Baishi. The situation was unfavorable for Mi Tang, so he led his troops back to the Big and Small Yu Valleys, summoned various Hu tribes in the north, and joined the affiliated tribes. The races and tribes were very strong, and Zhang Yu was unable to conquer Mi Tang.
In the first year of Yongyuan, Zhang Yu was requisitioned for committing a crime. The imperial court appointed Deng Xun, the governor of Zhangye, as the school captain. Deng Xun gradually used rewards and bribes to alienate the Qiang people, and these tribes gradually collapsed.
Dongwu's son Camhao succeeded to the throne.
I was sent to lead my tribe to surrender.
The school captain Deng Xun sent troops to attack Mi Tang, who left Xiaoyu Valley and moved to Poyan Valley.
In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Deng Xun died of illness, and Nie Shang, the governor of Shu County, took over as the school captain.
Nie Shang saw that the people in front of him could not conquer it after repeated attacks, and wanted to win them over with virtue, so he sent a messenger with an interpreter to call Mi Tang and let him return to live in Xiaoyu Valley.
After Mi Tang came back, he sent his grandmother Bei Que to Nie Shang. Nie Shang personally sent Bei Que to the border gate, offered sacrifices to the road gods and held a banquet to see her off. He also sent translator Tian Si and five other people to escort her to the tribe.
Mi Tang took this opportunity to rebel, and together with other tribes, they dismembered Tian Si and others alive, and used their blood oath to invade the Jincheng frontier again.
In the fifth year, Nie Shang was expelled from his post, and Juyan Duwei Guanyou took over as the school captain.
Because Guanyou was obsessed with the Tang Dynasty, it was difficult to be influenced by morality, and eventually rebelled. He sent messengers to instigate discord among the various Qiang tribes and lured them with property. Since then, the Qiang people have been divided and disintegrated.
Guanyou then sent troops out of the fortress to attack the Midang in the Xiaoyu Valley, killing and capturing more than 800 Qiang people, and harvesting tens of thousands of dendrobiums of wheat. He then built a castle on both sides of the Fengliu River, built large ships, and built a bridge over the Yellow River, intending to send his troops across the river to attack the Midang.
summary:
The Qiang continued to resist Han rule. In 77 CE, Miwu led a revolt, defeating Han forces. Fu Yu, the Qiang Protector, was killed in 87 CE. Zhang Yu retaliated by poisoning Qiang leaders, but Miwu's son Mitang continued raids. Deng Xun and later officials used bribery to divide the Qiang, but conflicts resumed. In 107 CE, the Qiang rebellion under Dianling and others devastated border regions, costing billions and causing massive displacement. Ren Shang and Deng Zun campaigned against them, but corruption and mismanagement plagued efforts. By 118 CE, the Qiang were largely subdued, though sporadic revolts occurred.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
兴平元年，冯翊降羌反，寇诸县，郭汜、樊稠击破之，斩首数千级。
自爰剑后，子孙支分，凡百五十种。
其九种在赐支河首以西，及在蜀、汉徼北，前史不载口数。
唯参狼在武都，胜兵数千人。
其五十二种衰少，不能自立，分散为附落，或绝灭无后，或引而远去。
其八十九种，唯钟最强，胜兵十余万。
其余大者万余人，小者数千人，更相抄盗，盛衰无常，无虑顺帝时胜兵合可二十万人。
发羌、唐旄等绝远，未尝往来。
牛、白马羌在蜀、汉，其种别名号，皆不可纪知也。
建武十三年，广汉塞外白马羌豪楼登等率种人五千余户内属，光武封楼登为归义君长。
至和帝永元六年，蜀郡徼外大牂夷种羌豪造头等率种人五十余万口内属，拜造头为邑君长，赐印绶。
至安帝永初元年，蜀郡徼外羌龙桥等六种万七千二百八十口内属。
明年，蜀郡徼外羌薄申等八种三万六千九百口复举土内属。
冬，广汉塞外参狼种羌二千四百口复来内属。
桓帝建和二年，白马羌千余人寇广汉属国，杀长吏，益州刺史率板蛮讨破之。
湟中月氏胡，其先大月氏之别也，旧在张掖、酒泉地。
月氏王为匈奴冒顿所杀，余种分散，西逾葱领。
其羸弱者南入山阻，依诸羌居止，遂与共婚姻。
及骠骑将军霍去病破匈奴，取西河地，开湟中，于是月氏来降，与汉人错居。
虽依附县官，而首施两端。其从汉兵战斗，随势强弱。
被服饮食言语略与羌同，亦以父名母姓为种。
其大种有七，胜兵合九千余人，分在湟中及令居。
又数百户在张掖，号曰义从胡。
中平元年，与北宫伯玉等反，杀护羌校尉泠征、金城太守陈懿，遂寇乱陇右焉。
论曰：羌戎之患，自三代尚矣。
汉世方之匈奴，颇为衰寡，而中兴以后，边难渐大。
朝规失绥御之和，戎师骞然诺之信。
其内属者，或倥偬之豪右之手，或屈折于奴仆之勤。
translation: 
In the first year of Xingnuo, the Qiang people who surrendered under Feng Xiang rebelled and invaded various counties. Guo Bang and Fan Chou defeated them and killed thousands of Qiang people.
Since Yuan Ren, his descendants have divided into a total of 150 tribes.
Among them, nine tribes are located west of the head of the Cizhi River and north of the border between Shu and Han. Their population numbers are not recorded in previous history books.
Only Shenlang Qiang is in Wudu and has thousands of men capable of fighting.
There are fifty-two tribes that are weak and have few people and cannot be independent. They are scattered into subordinate tribes. Some of them have completely declined and have no descendants, and some have moved away.
Among its eighty-nine tribes, only Zhong Qiang is the most powerful, with more than 100,000 people capable of fighting.
Other tribes range in size from tens of thousands to thousands. They plunder and invade each other, and their strength and decline are ever-changing. During the reign of Emperor Shun, the total number of Qiang people capable of fighting was approximately 200,000.
The Faqiang, Tangyan and other tribes were very far away and had no contact with them.
The names of the tribes of Li Niu and Baima Qiang in Shu and Han cannot be known or recorded.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Lou Deng, leader of the Baima Qiang outside the Great Wall of Guanghan, and others led more than 5,000 Qiang households of his tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Guangwu granted Lou Deng the title of Lord Commander of Guiyi.
In the fifth and sixth year of Emperor He's reign, Zaotou and others, a fat Yi Qiang leader outside the borders of Shu County, led more than 500,000 people of the same tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Emperor He appointed Zaotou as the chief of the city and gave him a seal.
By the first year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, 17,280 people from six tribes including Longqiao and other Qiang tribes outside the borders of Shushu had surrendered to the imperial court.
The next year, 36,900 people from eight tribes including the Qiang Bo Shen outside the borders of Shu County surrendered the entire area to the imperial court.
In winter, 2,400 Qiang people from the Shenlang tribe outside the Guanghan border came to submit to the imperial court.
In the second year of Emperor Huan's establishment of peace, more than a thousand Baima Qiang invaded the Guanghan vassal state and killed county officials. The Yizhou governor led the Banchu barbarians to defeat the invading Baima Qiang.
The Yuezhi Hu in Huangzhong was originally another branch of the Da Yuezhi. Was it retreating in the past? Leg area resides.
King Yuezhi was killed by Bao Shuandun, and the remaining tribes dispersed and crossed Congling to the west.
Among them, the weak ones went south into the mountains, lived among the Qiang tribes, and intermarried with the Qiang people.
When Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu, captured the Xihe area, and opened up Huangzhong, the Yuezhi came to surrender and lived mixed with the Han people.
Although they relied on the imperial court, they hesitated to wait and see. They followed the Han army to fight, and their fighting intensity also changed with the strength of the Han army's situation.
Their clothing, food, and language are roughly the same as those of the Qiang people, and they also use their father's name and mother's surname as tribal titles.
There are seven large tribes, and the total number of those who can fight is more than 9,000, distributed in Huangzhong and Lingju.
There are still hundreds of households in Zhangye, called Yiconghu.
In the first year of Zhongping, they rebelled with Beigong Boyu and others, killing Ling Zheng, the captain of the Qiang Protector, and Chen Yi, the prefect of Jincheng, and then invaded Longyou to cause chaos.
On Japan: The Qiang and Rong have been causing harm for a long time since the third generation.
During the Han Dynasty, they were quite weak compared to the Xiongnu, but after the Guangwu Zhongxing, their harm to the border gradually became serious.
The imperial court made mistakes in appeasing, governing and harmonizing the Qiang and Rong, and the army generals also violated their promises and trustworthiness.
Some of the Qiang people who surrendered to the imperial court fell into poverty and embarrassment in the hands of the powerful, and some were forced to work as slaves and do manual labor.
summary:
In later years, the Qiang faced further suppression. Ma Xian defeated them in 141 CE, but his death in battle in 144 CE led to renewed chaos. Zhao Chong and others campaigned, but the Qiang declined by the 2nd century CE. During the Han dynasty's decline, Qiang allied with Yellow Turban rebels in 184 CE. By the 3rd century CE, the Qiang had fragmented into 150 tribes, with the Zhong Qiang being the most powerful, fielding over 100,000 warriors. The Yuezhi Hu, a related group, intermarried with Qiang and lived in Huangzhong. The text concludes that the Qiang's persistent harm stemmed from Han mismanagement, including broken promises and exploitation. The Yongchu period saw widespread rebellion, with Qiang plundering Sanfu and cutting off Longxi. Despite costly campaigns by generals like Deng Lu and Ren Shang, the Han failed to achieve lasting peace. The author criticizes the policy of relocating Qiang into Han territory, which exacerbated conflicts. Ultimately, the Qiang were suppressed by Duan Yi, but the Han dynasty's decline followed. The narrative emphasizes the cyclical nature of Qiang-Han relations, marked by rebellion, suppression, and eventual fragmentation.

