Chunk 0: 
original: 
日为太阳之精，主生恩德，人君之象也。
人君有瑕，必露其慝以告示焉。
故日月行有道之国则光明，人君吉昌，百姓安宁。
人君乘土而王，其政太平，则日五色无主。
日变色，有军，军破；无军，丧侯王。
其君无德，其臣乱国，则日赤无光。
日失色，所临之国不昌。日昼昏，行人无影，到暮不止者，上刑急，下不聊生，不去一年有大水。
日昼昏，乌鸟群鸣，国失政。
日中乌见，主不明，为政乱，国有白衣会，将军出，旌旗举。
日中有黑子、黑气、黑云，乍三乍五，臣废其主。
日蚀，阴侵阳，臣掩君之象，有亡国。
月为太阴之精，以之配日，女主之象；以之比德，刑罚之义；列之朝廷，诸侯大臣之类。
故君明，则月行依度；臣执权，则月行失道；大臣用事，兵刑失理，则月行乍南乍北；女主外戚擅权，则或进或退。
月变色，将有殃。
月昼明，奸邪并作，君臣争明，女主失行，阴国兵强，中国饥，天下谋僭。
数月重见，国以乱亡。
岁星曰东方春木，于人，五常，仁也；五事，貌也。
仁亏貌失，逆春令，伤木气，则罚见岁星。
岁星盈缩，以其舍命国。
其所居久，其国有德厚，五谷丰昌，不可伐。
其对为冲，岁乃有殃。
岁星安静中度，吉。
盈缩失次，其国有忧，不可举事用兵。
又曰，人主之象也，色欲明，光色润泽，德合同。
又曰，进退如度，奸邪息；变色乱行，主无福。
translation: 
The sun is the strong yang energy and essence, responsible for fertility and kindness, and is the symbol of the human king.
If a person has a flaw, his darkness and evil will definitely appear and be revealed.
Therefore, when the sun and moon move in a righteous country, they will shine brightly, the ruler will be auspicious and prosperous, and the people will be healthy and peaceful.
If the ruler Feng becomes the king through the land, and if the country is peaceful, then the prince will be killed.
If the ruler is unvirtuous and the ministers disrupt the country, then the sun will be red but without light.
If the sun loses its normal color, the country it shines on will not be prosperous.
The sun is dim during the day, and pedestrians have no shadows. If this phenomenon does not end at dusk, the punishments from above will be urgent and severe, and the people below will be in dire straits, and there will be major floods within a year.
When the sun is dim during the day and crows crow in droves, the country will be in political and criminal chaos.
If a crow appears in the middle of the sun, the ruler will be unclear, and government affairs will be handled in confusion. There will be royal funerals in the country, generals will appear, and flags will be raised in disorder.
There are sunspots, black energy, and black clouds in the middle of the sun, which are uncertain, and the subject will abandon his monarch.
A solar eclipse means that Yin Qi invades Yang Qi, which is a sign that the ministers are covering up the monarch, and the country will be destroyed.
The moon is the essence of the lunar moon. It is used to match the sun and is a symbol of the heroine. It is used to compare virtues and express the meaning of punishment. It is arranged in the imperial court and belongs to the princes and ministers.
Therefore, if the monarch is wise, the moon will move in accordance with the laws; if the ministers are in charge of the government, the moon will deviate from its orbit; if the ministers are in power and use military force and punishment without principles and rules, the moon will move south and then north; if the queen and the female protagonist are in power, the moon will advance and retreat.
The moon has changed its normal color and will cause disaster.
If the moon is very bright during the day, treachery and evil will occur at the same time. The monarch and his ministers will fight for power, the queen and the heroine will lose their virtue, making the country dim and wars will continue, there will be famine in the Central Plains, and the world will conspire to overthrow.
If several moons appear at the same time, the country will perish due to turmoil.
The year star is called Dongfang Chunmu. To people, it is the benevolence in the five constant things and the appearance in the five things.
If benevolence is stained, appearance is lost, the spring season is violated, and the energy of wood is damaged, the punishment will appear on the year star.
The age star rises early and rises late, and its position determines the rise and fall of a country.
As long as it stays for a long time, the country will be virtuous and benevolent, its crops will be abundant, and it cannot be conquered.
If it is in opposition, there will be disaster that year.
The year star is quiet and unchanged, which is consistent with normality and is auspicious.
If its fullness and shrinkage lose its normal state, the country will be in trouble and cannot raise its troops.
Another theory is that it is a symbol of the ruler, and it should be bright in color, bright in color, and harmonious in politics and morality.
There is also a saying that if its advance and retreat are normal, evil will cease; if its movement is abnormal, the master will have no blessings or fortune.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
又主福，主大司农，主齐吴，主司天下诸侯人君之过，主岁五谷。
赤而角，其国昌；赤黄而沈，其野大穰。
荧惑曰南方夏火，礼也，视也。礼亏视失，逆夏令，伤火气，罚见荧惑。
荧惑法使行无常，出则有兵，入则兵散。
以舍命国，为乱为贼，为疾为丧，为饥为兵，所居国受殃。
环绕钩已，芒角动摇，变色，乍前乍后，乍左乍右，其为殃愈甚。
其南丈夫、北女子丧。
周旋止息，乃为死丧；寇乱其野，亡地。
其失行而速，兵聚其下，顺之战胜。
又曰，荧惑主大鸿胪，主死丧，主司空。
又为司马，主楚吴越以南；又司天下群臣之过，司骄奢亡乱妖孽，主岁成败。又曰，荧惑不动，兵不战，有诛将。
其出色赤怒，逆行成钩已，战凶，有围军；钩已，有芒角如锋刃，人主无出宫，下有伏兵；芒大则人众怒。
又为理，外则理兵，内则理政，为天子之理也。
故曰，虽有明天子，必视荧惑所在。
其入守犯太微、轩辕、营室、房、心，主命恶之。
填星曰中央季夏土，信也，思心也。
仁义礼智，以信为主，貌言视德，以心为正，故四星皆失，填乃为之动。
动而盈，侯王不宁。
缩，有军不复。
所居之宿，国吉，得地及女子，有福，不可伐；去之，失地，若有女忧。
居宿久，国福厚；易则薄。
失次而上二三宿曰盈，有主命不成，不乃大水。
失次而下曰缩，后戚，其岁不复，不乃天裂若地动。
translation: 
It is also in charge of fortune and wealth, in charge of agricultural affairs, in charge of the land of Qi and Wu, in charge of the faults of princes and monarchs in the world, and in charge of the annual grain harvest.
If the color is red and shining, the country will be prosperous; if the color is yellow-red and dark, the fields will be prosperous and the harvest will be abundant.
Yinghuo is the essence of summer fire in the south. Etiquette and carelessness are ignored, which violates the summer order and damages the fire energy. The punishment appears on the disaster star.
The Dharma image of Yinghuo causes the operation to be abnormal. When it appears, there will be military chaos. When it disappears, the military chaos will dissipate.
Its position determines the rise and fall of a country. There will be turmoil and bandits, there will be disease and death, there will be famine and war. The country where it stays will suffer disaster.
If it is arranged in a circle, its shape is like a hook, its bright angle is wavering, and its color changes, sometimes forward, sometimes backward, sometimes left, sometimes right, the disaster it causes will be more serious.
If it is in the south, men will die, if it is in the north, women will die.
When its circulation stops, it is a sign of death, bandits and bandits disrupt the wilderness, and the land is destroyed.
It is off course and moving rapidly. If the army gathers under it, it will win if it follows its course.
It is also said that Yinghuoxing is in charge of Dahonglu, death and funeral, and Sikong.
He is also in charge of the faults of the ministers in the world, in charge of the affairs of arrogance and extravagance that lead to chaos and evil, and in charge of the good and bad times. He also said that if Yinghuo remained still and the troops did not fight, he would kill the generals.
When it appears, its color is red and intense, and it moves retrograde to form a hook shape. Its horn of light is like a blade. You should not leave the palace because there are ambushes underneath it. If the horn is large, there will be many people and strong momentum.
He is also in charge of governance, managing the army externally, and managing government affairs internally. This is the principle of the emperor.
Therefore, even if there is a wise emperor, he must still examine the location of Yinghuo Star.
If its appearance infringes upon the Taiwei Star, Xuanyuan Star, Yingshi Star, Fang Star and Heart Star, it is taboo for the corresponding objects it controls.
The town star is called the central Ji Xia soil, which is a symbol of integrity and thinking.
Benevolence, righteousness, propriety and wisdom are based on honesty, appearance, speaking, listening and speaking, and the heart is righteous. Therefore, if all four stars lose their normal state, the Zhenxing will move accordingly.
If there is turmoil and it occurs early, the princes and kings will not be at peace.
If you leave late, the army will go to war and be unable to return.
The position where it resides will be auspicious for the country, and women who obtain the land will be blessed and cannot be conquered; if the star leaves, the land will be lost, or women will be worried.
If you stay in the dormitory for a long time, the blessings of the country will be profound; if you change the dormitory, the blessings will be shallow.
If it deviates from its position and moves upward by two or three positions, it is called Ying. It is difficult to achieve the object it controls, otherwise there will be floods.
If it deviates from the position and shrinks downward, the ruler will be in trouble and his years will be restless, otherwise there will be collapse or earthquake.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
一曰，填为黄帝之德，女主之象，主德厚安危存亡之机，司天下女主之过。
又曰，天子之星也。
天子失信，则填星大动。
太白曰西方秋金，义也，言也。
义亏言失，逆秋令，伤金气，罚见太白。
太白进退以候兵，高埤迟速，静躁见伏，用兵皆象之，吉。
其出西方，失行，夷狄败；出东方，失行，中国败。
未尽期日，过参天，病其对国。
若经天，天下革，民更王，是谓乱纪，人众流亡。
昼见，与日争明，强国弱，小国强，女主昌。
又曰，太白主大臣，其号上公也，大司马位谨候此。
辰星曰北方冬水，智也，听也。
智亏听失，逆冬令，伤水气，罚见辰星。
辰星见，则主刑，主廷尉，主燕赵，又为燕、赵、代以北；宰相之象。
亦为杀伐之气，战斗之象。
又曰，军于野，辰星为偏将之象，无军为刑事。和阴阳，应效不效，其时不和。
出失其时，寒署失其节，邦当大饥。
当出不出，是谓击卒，兵大起。
在于房心间，地动。
亦曰，辰星出入躁疾，常主夷狄。
又曰，蛮夷之星也，亦主刑法之得失。
色黄而小，地大动。
光明与月相逮，其国大水。
凡五星有色，大小不同，各依其行而顺时应节。
色变有类，凡青皆比参左肩，赤比心大星，黄比参右肩，白比狼星，黑比奎大星。
不失本色而应其四时者，吉；色害其行，凶。
凡五星所出所行所直之辰，其国为得位。
translation: 
One theory is that Zhenxing is the virtue of the Yellow Emperor and is a symbol of the heroine. It controls the signs of deep kindness and safety, as well as the faults of the heroine in the world.
He also said that it was the star of the Emperor.
When the emperor loses his integrity, Zhenxing will be in violent turmoil.
Taibai star is called Western Autumn Gold, which is a symbol of morality and speech.
Morality is lacking, words are irrational, disobeying the autumn order, damaging the metal energy, and the punishment appears in the Taibai Star.
The advance and retreat of Taibai Star can predict the chaos of war, and the ups and downs, speed, and calmness will appear. If the army is mobilized to imitate the situation of Taibai Star, it will be auspicious and safe.
When it appears in the West and disrupts regular behavior, the Yi and Di will fail; when it appears in the East and disrupts regular behavior, the Central Plains will fail.
Failure to exhaust its cycle time and travel beyond the heavens will endanger the countries it deals with.
If it travels through the entire sky, the world will change, and the people will change their monarchs. This is called chaos, and the people will go into exile.
The white star appears during the day and competes with the sun for brightness. Strong countries become weak, small countries become strong, and the heroine, the emperor, is powerful and indulgent.
He also said that the minister in charge of Taibai Star is called the Grand Duke, which is equivalent to the position of Grand Sima. I would like to occupy this position.
The star corresponds to the north, winter, and water, and represents wisdom and listening to politics.
Lack of wisdom, improper management, disobedience to winter orders, damage to water vapor, and punishment will appear on the stars.
When the Chen star appears, it is in charge of punishments, court officials, Yandi, Zhaodi, and the places north of Yan, Zhao, and Dai. It is the image of the prime minister.
It also symbolizes the spirit of killing and conquest and the image of battle. If there is no war, punishment will occur.
To reconcile yin and yang, if it does not work in the suburbs of Beijing, there will be disharmony.
It appears at an untimely time, and if cold and heat mix up the solar terms, the country will suffer from famine.
It should appear but does not appear. This is called attacking soldiers, and it leads to the rise of military revolution in the world.
If it is between the house star and the heart star, earthquakes will occur.
It is also said that Chen Xing comes in and out, moves quickly and slowly, and is often in charge of Yi Di.
It is also said that it is the star of barbarians, which also corresponds to the gains and losses of punishment.
When its color turns yellow and its size becomes smaller, severe earthquakes will occur.
When its light is close to that of the moon, the country it deals with will be flooded.
The five stars are colored and different in size. Each one follows its own trajectory and complies with the time and solar terms.
The color changes are regular. Cyan can be compared to the left shoulder of Rigel, red can be compared to the star Antares, yellow can be compared to the right shoulder of Rigel, fold can be compared to the wolf star, and black can be compared to the star Kui.
If it conforms to the four seasons without losing its true color, it will be auspicious; if its color is contrary to its behavior, it will be misfortune.
The celestial position that the five stars enter, exit, move, and serve will determine the corresponding country.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
得位者，岁星以德，荧惑有礼，填星有福，太白兵强，辰星阴阳和。
所行所直之辰，顺其色而有角者胜，其色害者败。
居实，有德也；居虚，无德也。
色胜位，行胜色，行得尽胜之。
营室为清庙，岁星庙也。
心为明堂，荧惑庙也。
南斗为文太室，填星庙也。
亢为疏庙，太白庙也。
七星为员宫，辰星庙也。
五星行至其庙，谨候其命。
凡五星盈缩失位，其精降于地为人。
岁星降为贵臣；荧惑降为童兒，歌谣嬉戏；填星降为老人妇女；太白降为壮夫，处于林麓；辰星降为妇人。
吉凶之应，随其象告。
凡五星，木与土合，为内乱，饥；与水合，为变谋而更事；与火合，为饥，为旱；与金合，为白衣之会，合斗，国有内乱，野有破军，为水。
太白在南，岁星在北，名曰牝牡，年谷大熟。
太白在北，岁星在南，年或有或无。
火与金合，为烁，为丧，不可举事用兵。
从军，为军忧；离之，军却。
出太白阴，分宅；出其阳，偏将战。
与土合，为忧，主孽卿。
与水合，为北军，用兵举事大败。
一曰，火与水合，为焠，不可举事用兵。
土与水合，为壅沮，不可举事用兵，有覆军下师。
一曰，为变谋更事，必为旱。
与金合，为疾，为白衣会，为内兵，国亡地。
与木合，国饥。
水与金合，为变谋，为兵忧。
入太白中而上出，破军杀将，客胜；下出，客亡地。
translation: 
For the person who wins the position, the Sui star governs virtue, the Yinghuo star governs ceremonies, the Saturn governs blessings, the Taibai star governs military strength, and the Chen star governs the harmony of yin and yang.
The celestial position that the movement is on, the one that conforms to its color and has horns can win, and the one whose color is inconsistent with it will fail.
To live in the proper place is virtuous; to live in the wrong place is unvirtuous.
The color surpasses its position, the operation surpasses its color, and the operation can surpass everything else.
The camp is the clear temple in the sky, the temple of the Sui Xing.
The Heart Star is the bright hall in the sky and the temple of the Yinghuo Star.
Nandou is the Wen Taishi in the sky and the temple of Saturn.
Kangxing is the sparse temple in the sky, the temple of Taibai.
The seventh is the palace in heaven and the temple of the stars.
When the five stars move to your temple, please wait for their fate.
Five stars that come out early or come out late may lose their position, and their essence falls to the ground and becomes a human being.
The Sui star descended and he became a noble minister; the Yinhuo star descended and he became a child, singing and playing every day; the Saturn descended and he became an old woman; the Taibai star descended and he became a strong man living in the mountains and forests; the Chen star descended and he became a woman.
The responses to good and bad fortunes are revealed according to the signs.
Among the five stars, if Jupiter and Saturn meet, there will be civil strife and famine; when it meets Mercury, it will change policies and actions; when it meets Mars, there will be famine and drought; when it meets Venus, there will be mourning of the emperor's family, internal struggles, wars at home, defeated armies in the field, and floods.
The Taibai star is in the south and the Sui star is in the north. They are called female and male. This year there will be a good harvest.
The Taibai star is in the north and the Sui star is in the south. The year is good and bad.
When Mars and Venus meet, the year will be bright, and the person who is mourning will not be able to raise troops or raise military affairs.
Following Taibai will cause the army to be destroyed; leaving Taibai will cause the army to retreat.
If it appears in the yin of Taibai, it will be a branch of the house; if it appears in the yang of Qi, there will be a deputy general going to war.
When it joins with Saturn, it will cause misfortune, and it will govern disobedient officials.
If it meets water, there will be a defeated army, and if it is used later, it will be defeated miserably.
It is said that Mars and Mercury join together to form a quenching force and cannot be used in military affairs.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mercury will create a phenomenon of obstruction, making it impossible to mobilize the troops, and the whole army will be destroyed.
Once said, it indicates that there will be a change of plans and a drought will definitely occur.
When it meets Venus, it will cause disease, cause mourning for the country, there will be army rebellion, and the country will lose its land.
When it meets Jupiter, there will be great famine in the country.
The conjunction of Mercury and Venus indicates that there will be conspiracies, chaos, and disasters of war.
If it enters the Taibai Star and comes out from above, it means the army is defeated, the general is killed, and the guest army wins; if it comes out from below, the guest army loses its land.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
视旗所指，以命破军。
环绕太白，若与斗，大战，客胜。
凡木、火、土、金与水斗，皆为战。
兵不在外，皆为内乱。
凡同舍为合，相陵为斗。
二星相近，其殃大；相远，毋伤，七寸以内必之。
凡月蚀五星，其国皆亡。
岁以饥，荧惑以乱，填以杀，太白以强国战，辰以女乱。
凡五星入月，岁，其野有逐相；太白，将僇。
凡五星所聚，其国王，天下从。
岁以义从，荧惑以礼从，填以重从，太白以兵从，辰以法从，各以其事致天下也。
三星若合，是谓惊立绝行，其国外内有兵与丧，百姓饥乏，改立侯王。
四星若合，是谓大阳，其国兵丧并起，君子忧，小人流。
五星若合，是谓易行，有德承庆，改立王者，奄有四方，子孙蕃昌；亡德受殃，离其国家，灭其宗庙，百姓离去，被满四方。
皆角，赤，犯我城；黄，地之争；白，哭泣声；青，有兵忧；黑，有水。五星同色，天下偃兵，百姓安宁，歌舞以行，不见灾疾，五谷蕃昌。
凡五星，岁，政缓则不行，急则过分，逆则占。
荧惑，缓则不出，急则不入，违道则占。
填，缓则不还，急则过舍，逆则占。
translation: 
You need to look at the direction of the flag star to predict where the broken army will be.
Mercury orbits Taibai. If it fights with Taibai, there will be a big battle and the guest army will win.
Whenever Jupiter, Mars, Saturn, Venus, and Mercury fight, war will occur.
The army did not go abroad to fight, but instead caused civil strife at home.
If several stars are in the same house, they are together, and when they are in contact with each other, they form a door.
If the two stars are close to each other, the disaster will be great; if they are far apart, there will be no harm; if they are within seven inches of each other, there will definitely be fulfillment.
Whenever the moon eclipses five stars, the country that divides it will decline.
The lunar eclipse of the year star is due to famine, the eclipse of Mars is due to war, the eclipse of Saturn is due to mass killings, the eclipse of Taibai is due to the defeat of a powerful country, and the eclipse of the Chen star is due to the chaos of women.
If the five stars are in conjunction with the moon, if it is the Sui star, the prime minister of the country will be expelled; if it is the Taizhe star, there will be killings.
Wherever the five stars gather, the corresponding country will dominate the world, and everyone in the world will obey.
The Sui star represents obedience based on morality, Mars represents obedience based on etiquette, Saturn represents obedience based on weight, Taibai represents obedience based on military strength, and Chen star represents obedience based on criminal law. Each of them brings order to the world based on what they are responsible for.
If the three stars come together, there will be military casualties and the normal operation of the stars will be interrupted. There will be wars and turmoil inside and outside the country. The people will be hungry, cold and sleepy, and princes will be established.
If the four stars meet, which is called the sun, war and death will occur in the country at the same time. The gentlemen in power will be worried and the people will be in exile.
If the five stars meet, it is called easy travel. A virtuous person will receive auspiciousness, and a person who is established as a king will be able to occupy all parts of the world, and his descendants will be prosperous; an unvirtuous person will suffer disaster and leave his country, the ancestral temple will be destroyed, the people will leave, and disasters will spread all over the world.
If the five stars are all big, the matter will be big; if they are all small, the matter will be small. The colors of all five stars are in the shape of a circle. White represents mourning, which is a sign of drought; red represents unevenness, which is a sign of war; cyan represents sorrow, which is a sign of floods; black represents disease and plague, which is a sign of mass death; and yellow represents auspiciousness. There are awns in all of them. If red, there will be enemy troops invading the country's city; yellow, there will be land disputes; white, there will be crying sounds; cyan, there will be war disaster; black, there will be fire. If the five stars appear in the same color, the world will be in disgrace. The people are at peace. Singing and dancing. There will be no disasters or diseases, and the crops will be plentiful.
Among these five stars, the Sui star is not suitable for the relaxation of politics and religion, the illness and experience are excessive, and the disobedience is good.
The star of Yinghuo will not come out if it is gentle, if it is ill and exceeds its residence, if it is disobedient, it will occupy it.
Taibai Star, if it is gentle, it will not come out, if it is ill, it will not come in, if it is disobedient, it will occupy it.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
太白，缓则不出，急则不入，逆则占。
五星不失行，则年谷丰昌。
凡五星分天之中，积于东方，中国利；积于西方，外国用兵者利。
辰星不出，太白为客；其出，太白为主。
出而与太白不相从，及各出一方，为格，野虽有军，不战。
凡五星见伏、留行、逆顺、迟速应历度者，为得其行，政合于常；违历错度，而失路盈缩者，为乱行。
乱行则为天矢彗孛，而有亡国革政，兵饥丧乱之祸云。
○杂星气
图纬旧说，及汉末刘表为荆州牧，命武陵太守刘睿集天文众占，名《荆州占》。
其杂星之体，有瑞星，有妖星，有客星，有流星，有瑞气，有妖气，有日月傍气，皆略其名状，举其占验，次之于此云。
○瑞星
一曰景星，如半月，生于晦朔，助月为明。
或曰，星大而中空。
或曰，有三星，在赤方气，与青方气相连，黄星在赤方气中，亦名德星。
二曰周伯星，黄色，煌煌然，所见之国大昌。
三曰含誉，光耀似慧，喜则含誉射。
四曰格泽，如炎火，下大上锐，色黄白，起地而上。
见则不种而获，有土功，有大客。
○妖星
一曰彗星，所谓扫星。
本类星，末类彗，小者数寸，长或竟天。
见则兵起，大水。
主扫除，除旧布新。
有五色，各依五行本精所主。
史臣案，彗体无光，傅日而为光，故夕见则东指，晨见则西指。
在日南北，皆随日光而指。
顿挫其芒，或长或短，光芒所及则为灾。
二曰孛星，彗之属也。
偏指曰彗，芒气四出曰孛。
translation: 
When a mirage arises, it will not come out if it is relaxed, it will not come in if it is ill, and it will occupy it if it is not the right time.
If the five stars do not lose their foundation and move continuously, then there will be a good harvest that year.
The sky is divided into two parts. If the five stars gather in the east, it will be beneficial to the Central Plains; if they gather in the west, it will be beneficial to foreign troops.
If Chen Xing does not appear, Tai Zhe will be the guest; if Chen Xing appears, Tai Bai will dominate.
When the stars appear without being followed by Tai Zhe, and when each appears from one side, it is the grid. Even though there are troops in the country, there will be no war.
Any appearance or disappearance of the five stars, staying or moving, disobedience or obedience, slowness or rapidity in accordance with the calendar time is in compliance with its laws, and politics and religion are all based on the routine; violating the calendar time and losing the normal path or shortening the time is an act of disorder.
Chaos will become a star in the sky, a comet star, and disasters such as the decline of the country, changes in government orders, war, famine, and chaos will occur.
○Jin Shu Zaxing Qi Translation
According to the old story in Hetu Weishu, when Liu Biao was appointed pastor of Jingzhou at the end of the Han Dynasty, he ordered Liu Ruihao, the prefect of Wuling, to compile many divination works on astronomy into a book, named "Jingzhou Divination".
The miscellaneous stars themselves include rising stars, demonic stars, guest stars, shooting stars, auspicious energy, demonic energy, and clouds next to the sun and moon. Their names and shapes are briefly listed, and the situations in which their divination has been fulfilled are listed here in order.
○Rising
The first is Jingxing, which looks like half a moon and appears at the beginning and end of the lunar month to help the moon emit light.
Some people say that this star is huge and empty in the middle.
Some people say that there are three stars. The clouds in the south are connected to the clouds in the east. The yellow star is in the clouds in the south, which is also called the Virtue Star.
The second is Zhou Boxing, which is yellow and sparkling. Whichever country it appears in, that country will be very prosperous.
The third name is Hanyu, which shines like a comet. When there is a happy event, the Hanyu star emits light.
The fourth is Geze, which is like a scorching flame, round below and sharp above, yellow-white in color, rising from the ground.
Once it appears, there will be harvests without cultivating, projects such as water control and city building, and distinguished guests.
○Yao Xing
One type is called a comet, which is the so-called broom star.
The basic body is like a star, and its end is like a broom, the small one is a few inches long, and the long one stretches across the entire sky.
When it appears, it will cause war and floods.
It governs sweeping, that is, getting rid of the old and ushering in the new.
It has five colors, each corresponding to the essence of the five elements.
Shi Chen believed that comets have no luster and rely on the sun to produce luster, so when they appear at night, the light points to the east, and when they appear in the morning, the light points to the west.
In the south and north of the sun, they all point with the sun's rays.
Its light fluctuates, sometimes long and sometimes short, and disasters will occur wherever the light touches.
The second is the star, which belongs to the category of comets.
When the light is deflected to one side, it is called a comet, and when the light spreads out in all directions, it is called a boom.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
孛者，孛孛然非常，恶气之所生也。
内不有大乱，则外有大兵，天下合谋，暗蔽不明，有所伤害。
晏子曰： 君若不改，孛星将出，彗星何惧乎！
由是言之，灾甚于彗。
三曰天棓，一名觉星。
本类星，末锐，长四丈。
或出东北方西方，主奋争。
四曰天枪。
其出，不过三月，必有破国乱君，伏死其辜。
殃之不尽，当为旱饥暴疾。
五曰天欃。
石氏曰，云如牛状。
甘氏，本类星，末锐。
巫咸曰，彗星出西方，长可三丈，主捕制。
六曰蚩尤旗，类彗而后曲，象旗。
或曰，赤云独见。
或曰，其色黄上白下。
或曰，若植雚而长，名曰蚩尤之旗。
或曰，如箕，可长二丈，末有星。
主伐枉逆，主惑乱，所见之方下有兵，兵大起；不然，有丧。
七曰天冲，出如人，苍衣赤头，不动。
见则臣谋主，武卒发，天子亡。
八曰国皇，大而赤，类南极老人星。
或曰，去地一二丈，如炬火，主内寇内难。
或曰，其下起兵，兵强。
或曰，外内有兵丧。
九曰昭明，象如太白，光芒，不行。
或曰，大而白，无角，乍上乍下。
一曰，赤彗分为昭明，昭明灭光，以为起霸起德之征，所起国兵多变。
一曰，大人凶，兵大起。
十曰司危，如太白，有目。
或曰，出正西，西方之野星，去地可六丈，大而白。
或曰，大而有毛，两角。
或曰，类太白，数动，察之而赤，为乖争之征，主击强兵。
translation: 
孛, that is to say, the radiant 孛孛 is unusual, and it is a sign of evil aura.
If there is no great chaos at home, there will be serious wars abroad. The world will unite to plan, and the end of the month will be hidden and unclear, which will cause harm.
Yanzi said: If the monarch does not change his ways, comets will appear. What's so scary about comets?
From this point of view, the disaster of a star is more serious than that of a comet.
The third one is called Tianxi, also called Juexing.
The body is similar to a star, with a sharp end and four feet long.
Sometimes it appears in the east or west, symbolizing struggle.
The fourth type is the Sky Spear.
No more than three months after its appearance, there will be a ruined country and a chaotic king who will fall to the ground and die because of his sins.
The disasters are not over yet, there will be droughts, famines, bandits and plagues.
The fifth is called Tianyi.
Shi said that its branches are shaped like an ox.
Gan believes that the body is similar to a star with a sharp end.
Wu Xian said that if a comet appeared in the west and was two to three feet long, the Lord would catch it.
The sixth is the Chiyou flag, which resembles a comet and curves at the back like a flag.
Some people say that the red cloud appears independently.
Some people say that its color is yellow at the bottom and white at the bottom.
Some people say that it looks like an upright guancao but is relatively long, so it is named Chiyou's flag.
Some people say that it is like a dustpan, two feet long, with stars at the end.
The Lord should fight against evil and rebellious people. The Lord should cause confusion and chaos. There will be wars and great military revolutions under the direction in which it appears; otherwise, there will also be losses.
The seventh one is called Tian Chong. It looks like a human being when it appears, wearing blue and black clothes, with a bare head and motionless.
When it appears, the subordinates will plot against the emperor, the armed soldiers will rise up, and the emperor will perish.
The eighth is called the King, which is huge and red, similar to Canopus in Antarctica.
Some people say that if it is one or two feet away from the ground and looks like a torch, it means that there will be bandit turmoil in the country.
Some people say that there is a war below where its position corresponds, and the troops are very strong.
Some people say that there are wars and chaos abroad and at home.
The ninth one is called Zhaoming, which looks like a white star with radiant light and horns, which is not good.
Some people say that it is huge and white in color, has no horns, and goes up and down.
Some people say that the red comet is divided into Zhao stars, and the light of the star dims and disappears at the end of the month. It is considered to be a sign of the rise of hegemony and virtue, and the corresponding country and military changes.
Some people say that it is unlucky for the person in the upper position, and there will be a serious war.
The tenth one is called Si Wei, who looks like a star with eyes.
Some people say that coming from the due west is the Wild Star of the West, about six feet above the ground, huge and white in color.
Some people say that it is huge, hairy, and has two horns.
Some people say that it is similar to the white star, which flashes frequently. If you look carefully, its red color is a sign of rebellion and fighting, and it should mainly fight against strong soldiers.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
见则主失法，豪杰起，天子以不义失国，有声之臣行主德。
十一曰天谗，彗出西北，状如剑，长四五丈。
或曰，如钩，长四丈。
或曰，状白小，数动，主杀罚。
出则其国内乱，其下相谗，为饥兵，赤地千里，枯骨藉藉。
十二曰五残，一名五鏠，出正东，东方之星。
状类辰，可去地六七丈。
或曰，苍彗散为五残，如辰星，出角。
或曰，星表有气如晕，有毛。
或曰，大而赤，数动，察之而青。
主乖亡；为五分，毁败之征，亦为备急兵。
见则主诛，政在伯，野乱成，有急兵，有丧，不利冲。
十三曰六贼，见出正南，南方之星。
去地可六丈，大而赤，动有光。
或曰，形如彗，五残、六贼出，祸合天下，逆侵关枢；其下有兵，冲不利。
十四曰狱汉，一名咸汉，出正北，北方之野星，去地可六丈，大而赤，数动，察之中青。
或曰，赤表，下有三彗从横。
主遂王，主刺王。
出则阴精横，兵起其下。
又为丧，动则诸侯惊。
十五曰旬始，出北斗旁，如雄鸡。
其怒，有青黑，象伏鳖。
或曰，怒，雌也，主争兵。
又曰，黄彗分为旬始，为立主之题，主乱，主招横。
见则臣乱兵作，诸侯虐，期十年，圣人起伐，群猾横恣。
或曰，出则诸侯雄鸣。
十六曰天锋，彗象矛锋。
天下从横，则天锋星见。
十七曰烛星，如太白。
其出也不行，见则不久而灭。
translation: 
If it appears, the main group will be lost. There are many heroes, the emperor will lose his country due to injustice, and the prestigious ministers will exercise the virtuous government of the monarch.
The eleventh is called Tiansheng. The tail of the comet appears in the northwest. It is shaped like a sword and is four or five feet long.
Some people say that it is shaped like a hook and is four feet long.
Some people say that its shape is small and white, and it often flashes, and it is meant for killing and punishment.
If it appears, there will be internal turmoil in the country to be dealt with, and the subordinate ministers will think of slander, resulting in famine and military chaos, and the bare ground will be thousands of miles away, and there will be withered bones everywhere.
The twelfth is called Wucan, and the two are called Wufeng. They come from the due east and are the Star of the East.
The lottery is similar to a long star, about six or seven feet above the ground.
Some people say that the pale comet dispersed into five remaining stars, shaped like stars and with horns.
Some say that there is a layer of gas on the surface of the star that is like a halo and has hairs.
Some say it is large, red in color, and often flashes. If you look closely, it appears cyan.
The Lord should take advantage of adversity and perish; divided into five, it is a sign of destruction and also symbolizes preparation for emergency war.
If it appears, the Lord should be killed, and the political power will fall to Bo. There will be turmoil in the four fields, there will be emergency military affairs, and there will be chaos, which is not conducive to the corresponding division of fields.
The thirteenth one is called the Six Thieves, which appears due south and is the star of the south.
It is about six feet above the ground, large and red in color, flashing and shining.
Some say it looks like a comet. Five residual stars and six thieves stars appear. Disasters will fall on the world, and rebel troops will invade the pass and fortress; there will be military disasters in the corresponding places, which will be unfavorable to the places where the guard positions should be.
The fourteenth star is called Prison Han, also known as Xian Han. It appears in the true north and is the star of the northern division. It is about six feet above the ground. It is large and red in color. It often flashes. If you observe carefully, it is cyan in the middle.
Some people say that its surface is red and there are three comets crisscrossing it below.
It symbolizes the exile of the monarch and the assassination of the monarch.
When it appears, the evil spirit will run rampant and war will break out in the area it corresponds to.
It also symbolizes turmoil, and when it flashes, the princes are frightened.
The fifteenth day is called Xunshi, appearing next to the Big Dipper and shaped like a rooster.
When angry, it turns green and black, like a prostrate turtle.
Some people say that when angry, it is a female, symbolizing military battles.
It is also said that the yellow comet is divided into ten stars, which have become the symbol of the Lord, symbolizing disaster and causing rebellion.
When it appears, the ministers will rebel, wars will break out, and the princes will wreak havoc. For a period of ten years, the saints will raise armies to attack, and many cunning and sycophants will run rampant.
Some people say that when the Xunshi star appears, the princes will become more powerful.
The sixteenth is called Tianfengxing, and the tail of the comet is like the tip of a spear.
When there is war in the world, the Fengxing will appear.
The seventeenth is called the candle star, which is shaped like a white star.
It appears without moving, disappearing shortly after appearing.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
或曰，主星上有三彗上出，所出城邑乱，有大盗不成，又以五色占。
十八曰蓬星，大如二斗器，色白，一名王星。
出而易处。星见，不出三年，有乱臣戮死。
又曰，所出大水大旱，五谷不收，人相食。
十九曰长庚，如一匹布著天。
见则兵起。
二十曰四填，星出四隅，去地六丈余，或曰可四丈。
或曰，星大而赤，去地二丈，常以夜半时出。见，十月而兵起，皆为兵起其下。
二十一曰地维藏光，出四隅。
或曰，大而赤，去地二三丈，如月始出。
见则下有乱，乱者亡，有德者昌。
《河图》云：
岁星之精，流为天棓、天枪、天猾、天冲、国皇、反登、苍彗。
荧惑散为昭旦、蚩尤之旗、昭明、司危、天欃、赤彗。
填星散为五残、狱汉、大贲、昭星、绌流、旬始、蚩尤、虹蜺、击咎、黄彗。
太白散为天杵、天柎、伏灵、大败、司奸、天狗、天残、卒起、白彗。
辰星散为枉矢、破女、拂枢、灭宝、绕綎、惊理、大奋祀、黑彗。
五色之彗，各有长短，曲折应象。
汉京房著《风角书》有《集星章》，所载妖星皆见于月旁，互有五色方云，以五寅日见，各有五星所生云：
天枪、天根、天荆、真若、天榬，天楼、天垣，皆岁星所生也。
见以甲寅，其星咸有两青方在其旁。
天阴、晋若、官张、天惑、天崔、赤若、蚩尤，皆荧惑之所生也。
出在丙寅日，有两赤方在其旁。
天上、天伐、从星、天枢、天翟、天沸、荆彗，皆填星所生也。
出在戊寅日，有两黄方在其旁。
若星、帚星、若彗、竹彗、墙星、榬星、白雚，皆太白之所生也。
出在庚寅日，有两白方在共旁。
天美、天欃、天杜、天麻、天林、天蒿、端下，皆辰星之所生也。
出以壬寅日，有两黑方在其旁。
已前三十五星，即五行气所生，皆出于月左右方气之中，各以其所生星将出不出日数期候之。
translation: 
Some people say that three comet tails appeared on the main star, and the cities where they appeared were in chaos. There were powerful bandits but nothing happened, and five colors were used for divination.
The eighteenth is called Peng Xing, which is as big as a container that can hold two buckets. It is white and is also called Wang Xing.
The shape is like the lights born at night, with as many as four or five and as few as one or two. He also said that Pengxing was in the southwest and was several feet long. Within three years, he would be killed by a treacherous official.
It is also said that the place where it appears has floods or droughts, the grains are not harvested, and people cannibalize people.
The nineteenth is called Chang Geng, like a piece of cloth attached to the sky.
When it appears, war breaks out.
The twentieth is called the four-filled star. This star appears in the four corners and is as high as ten feet above the ground. Some people say it is about four feet.
Some people say that this star is large and red in color, two feet above the ground, and often appears in the middle of the night. Once it appears, wars will break out after October, and wars will break out in the areas corresponding to it.
The twenty-first is called Diwei Zangguang, which appears in the four corners.
Some people say that it is large and red in color, two or three feet above the ground, like the moon starting to rise.
When it appears, there will be war and chaos below, those who cause chaos will die, and those who are virtuous will prosper.
"River Map" says:
The essence of the Sui star is dispersed into the stars of Tianxi, Tianqiang, Tiancunning, Tianchong, Guhuang, Fandeng and Canghui.
The stars of Yinghuo are scattered into Zhaodan, Chiyouzhiqi, Zhaoming, Siwei, Tianzhen and Chihui.
Saturn is scattered into the stars of Wucan, Yuhan, Daben, Zhaoxing, Qianliu, Xunshi, Chiyou, Hongni, Jiujiu and Huanghui.
Taibai stars are scattered into Tianchu, Tianqi, Fuling, Dabai, Sijie, Tiangu, Tiancan, Zuqi and Baihui.
The stars are dispersed into Wu Ya, Po Nu, Fu Shu, Destroy Bao, Rao Xi, Jing Li, Da Fen Si, and Black Comet.
The comets of five colors each have their own strengths and weaknesses, and their twists and turns conform to the celestial phenomena.
There is a "Collection of Stars" in the "Feng Jiao Shu" written by Jing Fang of the Han Dynasty. The demon stars recorded in the article all appear next to the moon, with five-colored square clouds between them. They appear on the fifth day of the year, each born from five stars.
The Heavenly Spear, Heavenly Root, Heavenly Jing, Heavenly Ruo, Heavenly Que, Heavenly Tower, and Heavenly Wall are all born from the Suixing.
Appearing on Jiayin Day, these stars have two cyan square clouds next to them.
Tianyin, Jinruo, Guanzhang, Tianhuo, Tiancui, Chiruo and Chiyou were all born of Yinghuo.
Appearing on Bingyin day, there are two red square clouds next to it.
Tianshang, Tianfa, Congxing, Tianshu, Tianzhai, Tianbo, and Jinghui are all born from the filling star.
Appearing on Wuyin Day, there were two yellow square clouds on both sides of it.
Ruo Xing, Broom Star, Ruo Hui, Bamboo Hui, Wall Star, Que Star, and Bai Yan are all born from Taibai.
Appearing on Gengyin Day, there are two white square clouds beside it.
Tianmei, Tianyi, Tiandu, Gastrodia, Tianlin, Tianhao and Duanxia are all born from the stars.
Appeared on Renyin day, there were two black squares next to it.
The thirty-five stars mentioned before, which are born from the five elements of Qi, all appear in the square Qi around the moon. They can be seen a few days before the star they are born is about to appear but has not yet appeared.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
当其未出之前而见，见则有水旱，兵丧，饥乱；所指亡国，失地，王死，破军，杀将。
○客星
张衡曰： 老子四星及周伯、王蓬絮、芮各一，错乎五纬之间。
其见无期。
其行无度 。
《荆州》占云： 老子星色淳白，然所见之国，为饥为凶，为善为恶，为喜为怒。
周伯星黄色煌煌，所至之国大昌。
蓬絮星色青而荧荧然，所至之国风雨不节，焦旱，物不生，五谷不登，多蝗虫。
又云： 东南有三星出，名曰盗星，出则人下有大盗。
西南有三星出，名曰种陵，出则天下谷贵十倍。
西北三大星出而白，名曰天狗，出则人相食，大凶。
东北有三大星出，名曰女帛，见则有大丧。
○流星
流星，天使也。
自上而降曰流，自下而升曰飞。
大者曰奔，奔亦流星也。
星大者使大，星小者使小。声隆隆者，怒之象也。
行疾者期速，行迟者期迟。
大而无光者。众人之事；小而有光者，贵人之事；大而光者，其人贵且众也。
乍明乍灭者，贼败成也。
前大后小者，恐忧也；前小后大者，喜事也。蛇行者，奸事也；往疾者，往而不反也。
长者，其事长久也；短者，事疾也。
奔星所坠，其下有兵。
无风云，有流星见，良久间乃入，为大风，发屋折木。
小流星百数四面行者，众庶流移之象。
流星之类，有音如炬火下地，野雉鸣，天保也；所坠国安，有喜。
若小流星色青赤，名曰地雁，其所坠者起兵。
流星有光青赤，长二三丈，名曰天雁，军中之精华也；其国起兵，将军当从星所之。
流星晖然有光，光白，长竟天者，人主之星也；主相、将军从星所之。
translation: 
If it appears before it appears, there will be floods and droughts, deaths in battles, famine and turmoil; the corresponding country will perish, lose its land, kings will die violently, armies will fail, and generals will be killed.
○Guest star
Zhang Heng said: The four stars of Lao Tzu and one each of Zhou Bo, Wang Pengxu and Rui are about five latitudes apart.
It will never be seen.
His behavior is immoderate.
"Jingzhou Zhan" says: Laozi's star is pure white, but in the country where it appears, there will be famine and disaster, good and evil, joy and anger.
Zhou Boxing's star is yellow and bright, and the country it passes through will be prosperous.
The fluffy star is blue-black in color and has a weak glow. The country it goes to will be affected by wind and rain, drought and scorched food, nothing will grow, grain will not grow, and there will be a serious locust plague.
He also said: Three stars appear in the southeast, and they are called robber stars. If they appear, there will be powerful robbers in the world.
There are three big stars in the southwest, named Zhongling. When they appear, the price of grain will increase tenfold.
Three big stars appear in the northwest. They are white in color and are called Tengu. If they appear, people will eat people and there will be great evil in the world.
Three big stars appear in the northeast, named Baibo. Their appearance indicates serious death.
○Meteor
Meteor is an angel.
What descends from above is called flow, and what rises from below is called flying.
The big one is called Ben, and Ben is also traffic.
The bigger the star, the bigger the mission; the smaller the star, the smaller the mission. The rumbling sound is a sign of anger.
Those who move quickly have a short deadline; those who move slowly have a slow deadline.
The one who is big and dull dominates the affairs of the people; the one who is small and shiny dominates the affairs of the nobles; the one who is big and shiny is noble and powerful.
The sudden bright and sudden disasters symbolize the success or failure of thieves and bandits.
The one that is big in the front and small in the back symbolizes fear and sorrow; the one that is small in the front and big in the back is a happy event; the one that moves like a snake is a traitor; the one that passes by quickly will not return to the past.
If the body is long, what happens is long-lasting; if it is short, what happens is short-lived.
Where the running star fell, there was war.
There is no wind or cloud, if there is traffic, it will disappear after a long time, and there will be strong winds, destroying houses and breaking trees.
There are hundreds of small flows circulating in all directions, which are symbols of the migration of sentient beings and people.
Some types of meteors sound like fire streaming down the earth, and some sound like pheasants crowing. They are the protection of heaven; the country where they fall has happy events.
If the small meteor is green and red, it is called Diyan, and there will be a war in the place where it falls.
The meteor is shiny, green and red, and is two to three feet long. Its name is Tianyan, and it is the essence of the military. If the country it corresponds to is at war, the general should follow the direction of the meteor.
Meteors are bright and shiny, their light is white, and their length reaches to the sky. They are the stars of human rulers and govern palms. The generals follow the residence of meteors.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
飞星大如缶若甕，后皎然白，前卑后高，此谓顿顽，其所从者多死亡。
飞星大如缶若甕，后然皎白，星灭后，白者曲环如车轮，此谓解衔，其国人相斩为爵禄。
飞星大如缶若甕，其后皎然白，长数丈，星灭后，白者化为云流下，名曰大滑，所下有流血积骨。
枉矢，类流星，色苍黑，蛇行，望之如有毛，目长数匹，著天，主反萌，主射愚。
见则谋反之兵合射所诛，亦为以乱伐乱。
天狗，状如大奔星，色黄，有声，其止地，类狗。所坠，望之如火光，炎炎冲天，其上锐，其下员，如数顷田处。或曰，星有毛，旁有短彗，下有狗形者。
或曰，星出，其状赤白有光，下即为天狗。
一曰，流星有光，见人面，坠无音，若有足者，名曰天狗。
其色白，其中黄，黄如遗火状。
主候兵讨贼。
见则四方相射，千里破军杀将。
或曰，五将斗，人相食，所往之乡有流血。
其君失地，兵大起，国易政，戒守御。
营头，有云如坏山堕，所谓营头之星，所堕，其下覆军，流血千里。
亦曰流星昼陨名营头。
○云气
瑞气：一曰庆云。
若烟非烟，若云非云，郁郁纷纷，萧索轮困，是谓庆云，亦曰景云。
此喜气也，太平之应。
二曰归邪。
如星非星，如云非云。
或曰，星有两赤彗向上，有盖，下连星。
见，必有归国者。
三曰昌光，赤，如龙状，圣人起，帝受终，则见。
妖气：一曰虹蜺，日旁气也，斗之乱精。
translation: 
The flying star is as big as a fou-like urn, its back is bright and white, its front is low and its back is high. This is called sudden stubbornness, and most of those who follow it die.
If the flying star is as big as a fou or an urn, then it will suddenly turn white. After the star is destroyed, the white light will form a curved ring shape like a wheel. This is called the release of title, and the people below it will kill each other for the title of honor.
If the flying star is as big as a fou-like urn, then it will turn white and be several feet long. After the star disappears, the white light will turn into clouds and disperse down, which is called a big slide. Where it falls, people will die, blood will flow, and corpses will pile up.
Wu Shi is like a shooting star, pale black in color, meandering like a snake. It looks like the clouds have hairs, and there are several clouds attached to the sky. It is mainly cute, and it mainly shoots fools.
When this star appears, rebel soldiers should shoot at the housekeeper's family members, which is to fight against chaos with chaos.
Tengu is shaped like a giant star, yellow in color, and has a sound. The place where it stays is like a dog. When it falls, the clouds look like fire, bright and soaring into the sky. Its upper part is sharp and its lower part is round, like a few acres of fields. Some people say that this star has hair, a short comet tail next to it, and a dog shape below.
Some people say that when this star emerges, its shape is red and white with light, and below it is the Tengu.
One theory is that the meteor is shiny, appears in front of people, and falls silently, as if it has legs. The star is called Tengu.
The star is white, with yellow in it, and its yellow is like the remaining firelight.
Like a sign, the army is expected to attack the bandits.
When the star appears, the four sides will shoot each other, and the enemy's army will be defeated in the thousands of miles away, and the enemy general will be beheaded.
Some people say that five generals fight each other, people eat each other, and blood flows wherever they pass.
The monarch there lost his territory, war broke out, the country changed hands, and troops were needed to defend it.
At the head of the camp, there are clouds falling downward like a cracked mountain peak. This is the so-called star at the head of the camp. Where it falls, there will be defeated troops below it, and blood will flow for thousands of miles.
It is also said that a meteor falling in the daytime is called Yingtou.
○Yunqi
Auspicious aura: The first type is called Qingyun.
It is like smoke but not smoke, like clouds but not clouds, abundant but complicated, sparse and empty inside, and like a round wheel on the outer edge. This kind of cloud is Qingyun, also called Jingyun.
This expresses joy and is a sign of peace.
The second is to return to evil.
Like stars but not stars, like clouds but not clouds.
Some people say that this star has two red comet tails rising upward, covered, and connected to the star below.
As soon as they appear, there must be people returning home.
The third type is called Changguang, which is red and looks like a dragon. Whenever a saint appears or a monarch succeeds to the throne, this star will appear.
The spirit of demons and sycophants: The first type is called hauni, which is the spirit of the sun and the scattered essence of Beidou.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
主惑心，主内淫，主臣谋君，天子诎，后妃颛，妻不一。
二曰云，如狗，赤色，长尾；为乱君，为兵丧。
○十煇
《周礼》眡昆氏掌十煇之法，以观妖祥，辨吉凶。
一曰昆，谓阴阳五色之气，浸淫相侵。
或曰，抱珥背璚之属，如虹而短是也。
二曰象，谓云气成形，象如赤乌，夹日以飞之类是也。
三曰觿日傍气，刺日，形如童子所佩之觿。
四曰监，谓云气临在日上也。
五曰闇，谓日月蚀，或曰脱光也。
六曰瞢，谓瞢瞢不光明也。
七曰弥，谓白虹弥天而贯日也。
八曰序，谓气若山而在日上。
或曰，冠珥背璚，重叠次序，在于日旁也。
九曰隮，谓晕气也。
或曰，虹也，《诗》所谓 朝隮于西 者也。
十曰想，谓气五色有形想也，青饥，赤兵，白丧，黑忧，黄熟。
或曰，想，思也，赤气为人狩之形，可思而知其吉凶也。
凡游气蔽天，日月失色，皆是风雨之候也，沈阴，日月俱无光，昼不见日，夜不见星，有云障之，两敌相当，阴相图议也。
日蒙蒙无光，士卒内乱。
又曰，数日俱出，若斗，天下兵起，大战。
日斗，下有拔城。
日戴者，形如直状，其上微起，在日上为戴。
戴者，德也，国有喜也。
一云，立日上为戴。
青赤气抱在日上，小者为冠，国有喜事。青赤气小而交于日下为缨，青赤气小而员，一二在日下左右者为纽。
青赤气如小半晕状，在日上为负，负者得地为喜。
又曰，青赤气长斜倚日旁为戟。
青赤气员而小，在日左右为珥，黄白者有喜。
translation: 
It symbolizes confusing people's hearts, internal promiscuity, subordinates seeking the throne, the emperor being deposed, concubines being exclusive, and wives not being exclusive.
The second type is called the Monyang Cloud, which looks like a dog, is red, and has a long tail, symbolizing the king of a troubled country and symbolizing death in war.
○Tenth Army
"Zhou Rites" records that the Kun clan mastered the method of ten armies. He has always observed the auspiciousness of monsters and deceivers and distinguished good and bad luck.
The first is called Kun, which refers to the qi of yin and yang and the five colors gradually deepening and invading each other.
Some people say that it belongs to the categories of Qi Bao Er on the side of the sun and Zhuang on the back, the kind that looks like a rainbow but is short.
The second type is called an image, which refers to the formation of clouds, like a red bird flying between the sun and the like.
The first one is called Xiang, which is the energy from the side of the sun, piercing the sun, and looks like the Xiang worn by a boy.
The fourth type is called prison, which refers to the clouds covering the sun.
The third type is darkness, which refers to solar and lunar eclipses. Some people say that they lose their luster.
The sixth type is Qi, which means the moon is hazy and not very bright.
The seventh type is called Mi, which refers to the white rainbow filling the sky and passing through the sun.
The eighth type is called Preface, which means that the Qi is like a mountain and above the sun.
Some people say that there are Qi Guan Er and Bei Guang next to the sun, and they overlap each other next to the sun.
The ninth type is called 鮮, which refers to dizziness.
Some people say that it is the rainbow, which is what the "Book of Songs" said in the "Chao Ji in the West".
The tenth type is called thinking, which means that the energy has five colors and can be visualized. Green is like hunger, red is like soldiers, white is like mourning, black is like worry, and yellow is like ripeness.
Some people say that thinking means thinking. Red is the shape of a person hunting. You can think about it and know its good or bad luck.
Whenever the weather covers the sky and the sun and moon lose their color, it is a sign of wind and rain. It is overcast and gloomy, and the sun and moon have no light. There is no sun during the day and no stars at night. There are clouds covering the sky. They are two enemies who are equal and secretly plotting against each other.
The sun was dim and the soldiers were causing chaos in the army.
He also said that several suns appeared at the same time, as if they were fighting, and there was a war in the world, and a war would break out.
The sun is fighting, and the city will be captured later.
The so-called Sun Dai has a straight shape with a slight tilt at the top. It is above the sun, so it is called Sun Dai.
Dai means virtue and symbolizes happy events for the country.
One theory is that standing on the sun is called Dai.
The country will have happy events. The Qi of green and red is small and intersects under the sun, which is Ying Qi. The Qi of green and red is small and round, and surrounds one or two below the sun either to the left or right, which is Ning Qi.
The green and red energy is like a small half-moon halo. Above the sun, it is negative energy. Negative energy means being happy to get land.
It is also said that the Qi of green and red is long and leaning next to the sun, which is the halberd.
The green and red gas is round and small, and it is Er gas when it is on the left and right of the sun. Those who are yellow are happy.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
又曰，有军，日有一珥为喜。
在日西。西军战胜。
在日东，东军战胜。
南北亦如之。
无军而珥，为拜将。
又日旁如半环向日为抱。
青赤气如月初生，背日者为背，又曰，背气青赤而曲，外向为叛象，分为反城。璚者如带，璚在日四方。
青赤气长而立日旁为直，日旁有一直，敌在一旁欲自立，从直所击者胜。
日旁有二直三抱，欲自立者不成，顺抱击者胜，杀将。
气形三角，在日西方为提，青赤气横在日上下为格。
气如半晕，在日下为承。
承者，臣承君也。
又曰，日下有黄气三重若抱，名曰承福，人主有吉喜，且得地。
青白气如履，在日下者为履。
日旁抱五重，战顺抱者胜。
日一抱一背，为破走。抱者，顺气也；背者，逆气也。
两军相当，顺抱击逆者胜，故曰破走。
日抱且两珥，一虹贯抱至日，顺虹击者胜，杀将。
日抱两珥且璚，二虹贯抱至日，顺虹击者胜。
日重抱，内有璚，顺抱击者胜。
亦曰，军内有欲反者。
日重抱，左右二珥，有白虹贯抱，顺抱击胜，得二将。
有三虹，得三将。
日抱黄白润泽，内赤外青，天子有喜，有和亲来降者；军不战，敌降，军罢。
色青黄，将喜；赤，将兵争，白，将有丧，黑，将死。
日重抱且背，顺抱击者胜，得地，若有罢师。
日重抱，抱内外有璚，两珥，顺抱击者胜，破军，军中不和，不相信。
日旁有气，员而周匝，内赤外青，名为晕。
日晕者，军营之象。周环匝日，无厚薄，敌与军势齐等。
若无军在外，天子失御，民多叛。
日晕有五色，有喜；不得五色者有忧。
凡占，两军相当，必谨审日月晕气，知其所起，留止远近，应与不应，疾迟，大小，厚薄，长短，抱背为多小，有无，虚实，久亟，密疏，泽枯。
相应等者势等。
translation: 
It is also said that if there is a military operation, there will be an Er next to the sun for joy.
To the west of the sun, the Western Army is victorious.
To the east of the sun, the Eastern Army is victorious.
The same is true in the north and south.
The appearance of Er gas without military action symbolizes the appointment of a general.
There are also those that are like a semi-circle next to the sun. Ringing towards the sun is holding Qi.
The green and red Qi is like the newly born moon, and the ring with the sun behind it is the back Qi. It is also said that the back Qi is green and red and curved. Curving outward is the symbol of rebellion, and when it separates, it is the symbol of overthrowing the city. It is like a belt of bright weather, extending in all directions of the sun.
The Qi of green and red is long and standing next to the sun, which is Zhi Qi. There is Zhi Qi next to the sun. If the enemy wants to stand on his own side, he will win by following the direct Qi.
There are two straight qi and three holding qi next to the sun. Those who want to stand on their own will not succeed. Those who hold the qi in the direction and attack will win and kill the generals.
The clouds form a triangle shape. When they are on the four sides of the sun, they are lifting qi. When the green and red qi lie above and below the sun, they are grid qi.
The clouds are like a half-halo, which is holding energy under the sun.
Inheritance means that the ministers uphold the monarch.
It is also said that there are three houses surrounded by yellow gas under the sun, named Chengfu, which indicates that the owner will have good luck and will get land.
The blue-white clouds are like the shape of shoes, and the ones under the sun are the shoes.
There are five layers of clouds surrounding the sun. If there is a war, the one who holds the clouds in the right direction will win.
There is a bag of Qi next to the sun and a back Qi, which is the Qi of breaking and walking. The Qi of Bao is the favorable Qi; the Qi of the back is the negative Qi.
The two armies are facing each other, and the one holding the air in the forward direction attacks the one in the opposite direction and wins, so the main goal is to break away.
There is Baoqi next to the sun and there are two Erqi. A rainbow runs through Baoqi and reaches directly to the side of the sun. Whoever follows the rainbow will win and kill the general.
The sun is surrounded by two Er Qi and a bright Qi appears. Two long rainbows penetrate the Bao Qi and reach directly to the side of the sun. Those who follow the rainbow and attack will win.
The holding Qi on the side of the sun overlaps, and there is bright Qi inside. The one who follows the holding and attacks will win.
It is also said that it indicates that there are people in the army who want to rebel.
The sun is surrounded by Baoqi, there are Erqi on the left and right, and a white rainbow penetrates the Baoqi. Whoever follows the Baoqi and attacks will win and get two generals.
There are three rainbows and three generals.
The Baoqi beside the sun is yellow-white and moist, and the red inside is cyan, which indicates happy events for the emperor and people who come to surrender and marry. The enemy does not need to start a battle, but the enemy surrenders and the war ends.
If the color is blue and yellow, there will be happy events; if it is red, there will be war; if it is white, there will be mourning; if it is black, there will be death.
The sun is surrounded by Bao Qi and has two back Qi. Those who follow the Bao Qi and attack will surely win and gain the land, like a tired army.
The sun is surrounded by Baoqi. There is bright Qi inside and outside Baoqi, and there are two Er Qi. Those who follow the Baoqi and attack will win. The army will lose, there will be disharmony in the army, and there will be no trust in each other.
There is cloud next to the sun, which is round and surrounding, red inside and cyan outside, which is called halo.
The halo is a symbol of the military camp. It surrounds the sun from all sides. There is no difference in thickness. The enemy's force is equal to our own.
If there were no troops outside, the emperor would lose control and the people would rebel.
If there are five colors in the sun's halo, there will be joy; if there are no five colors, there will be sorrow.
In any divination, when the strength of the two armies is equal, we must carefully examine the halo of the sun and the moon, and understand where they originate, the distance they stay, the response and response, the speed and slowness, the size, thickness, length, number of generals, presence and absence, void and solid, long and short, dense and scattered, moist and dry.
They are equally matched to each other.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
近胜远，疾胜迟，大胜小，厚胜薄，长胜短，抱胜背，多胜少，有胜无，实胜虚，久胜亟，密胜疏，泽胜枯。
重背，大破；重抱为和亲；抱多，亲者益多；背为天下不和，分离相去，背于内者离于内，背于外者离于外也。
○杂气
天子气，内赤外黄，四方所发之处当有王者。
若天子欲有游往处，其地亦先发此气。
或如城门隐隐在气雾中，恆带杀气森森然。
或如华盖在雾气中，或气象青衣人无手，在日西，或如龙马，或杂色郁郁冲天者，此皆帝王气。
猛将之气，如龙，如猛兽；或如火烟之状；或白如粉沸；或如火光之状，夜照人；或白而赤气绕之，或如山林竹木，或紫黑如门上楼；或上黑下赤，状似黑旌；或如张弩；或如埃尘，头锐而卑，本大而高。
此皆猛将之气也。
气发渐渐如云，变作山形，将有深谋。
凡军胜之气，如堤如坂，前后磨地。
或如水光；将军勇，士卒猛。
或如山堤，山上若林木；将士骁勇。
或如埃尘粉沸，其色黄白；或如人持斧向敌；或如蛇举首向敌，或气如覆舟，云如牵牛；或有云如斗鸡，赤白相随，在气中；或发黄气，皆将士精勇。
凡气上黄下白，名曰善气；所临之军，敌欲求和退。
凡负气，如马肝色，或如死灰色；或类偃盖，或类偃鱼；或黑气如坏山坠军上者，名曰营头之气；或如群牛群猪，在气中。
此衰气也。
或如悬衣，如人相随；或纷纷如转蓬，或如扬灰；或云如卷席，如匹布乱穰者，皆为败征。
translation: 
The near is better than the far, the fast is better than the slow, the big is better than the small, the thick is better than the thin, the long is better than the short, holding the air is better than the back air, more is better than the less, presence is better than nothing, reality is better than the void, long time is better than short, dense is better than sparse, and luster is better than withered.
If there is overlapping of negative qi, there will be a big defeat; if there is overlap of holding qi, it will be a harmonious relationship. The more holding qi, the more people will be friendly. Backward qi indicates disharmony in the world, scattering and drifting away from each other. Those with northern qi inside are scattered inside, and those with back qi outside are scattered outside.
○Irritated gas
The Qi of the Emperor is red on the inside and yellow on the outside. Wherever it appears in the four directions, a king will be born.
If the emperor wants to visit a certain place, this kind of energy will appear in advance in that place.
Some are like city gates vaguely shrouded in mist, always carrying a sinister murderous aura.
Some are like the umbrella cover on a car wrapped in the mist, some are like a man in green without hands, in the west of the sun, some are like dragons and horses, and some are mixed colors and lush and soaring into the sky. This is the aura of the emperor.
The aura of a fierce general is like a dragon or a ferocious beast; some are like smoke; some are like white powder boiling; some are like fire, which can illuminate people at night; some are white and red, surrounded by this aura, and some are like mountains and forests. Bamboo trees, some are purple-black like the tower above the door; some are black above and red below, shaped like black flags; some are like open crossbows; some are like dust, with pointed and low heads and large and high roots.
This is all the spirit of a fierce general.
After this energy appears, it gradually accumulates like clouds and changes into the shape of a mountain, which will produce far-reaching strategies.
Any army with the spirit of victory is like a dam or a slope, grinding the ground before and after.
Some are like fire; it indicates that the generals are brave and the soldiers are fierce.
Some are like mountain embankments, and the mountains seem to be covered with trees; it indicates the bravery of soldiers.
Some are like dust flying and boiling, yellow and white; some are like people holding big axes and slashing at the enemy; some are like snakes raising their heads to bite the enemy; some clouds are like capsized boats, and some clouds are like cattle; some clouds are like fighting chickens, with red and white accompanying each other, rolling in the air; some emit yellow gas, which all symbolize the bravery of the soldiers.
Any qi that is yellow at the top and white at the bottom is called good qi. The enemy of the army facing it will seek peace and retreat.
Generally speaking, negative energy is like the color of horse liver, or as dead gray; some are like crouching umbrella canopies, and some are like crouching fish; some black energy is like collapsed mountain peaks falling on the army, which is called the energy of the camp head; some are like herds of sheep and pigs, in the atmosphere.
At this time, the energy is weak.
Some are like hanging clothes, like people accompanying each other, some are messy like fluffy grass blowing in the wind, and some are like rising dust; some clouds are like rolled up mats, and they are like messy cloths, all of which are signs of failure.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
气如系牛，如人卧，如双蛇，如飞鸟，如决堤垣，如坏屋，如惊鹿相逐，如两鸡相向，此皆为败军之气。
凡降人气，如人十十五五，皆叉手低头；又云，如人叉手相向。
或气如黑山，以黄为缘者，皆欲降伏之象也。
凡坚城之上，有黑云如星，名曰军精。
或白气如旌旗，或青云黄云临城。
皆有大喜庆。
或气青色如牛头触人，或城上气如烟火。
如双蛇，如杵形向外，或有云分为两彗状者，皆不可攻。
凡屠城之气，或赤如飞鸟，或赤气如败车，或有赤黑气如狸皮斑，或城中气聚如楼，出见于外；营上有云如众人头，赤色，其城营皆可屠。
气如雄雉临城，其下必有降者。
凡伏兵有黑气，浑浑员长，赤气在其中：或白气粉沸，起如楼状；或如幢节状，在乌云中；或如赤杵在乌云中，或如乌人在赤云中。
凡暴兵气，白，如瓜蔓连结，部队相逐，须臾罢而复出；或白气如仙人，如仙人衣，千万连结，部队相逐，罢而复兴，当有千里兵来。
或气如人持刀楯，云如人，色赤，所临城邑有卒兵至。
或赤气如人持节，兵来未息。
云如方虹。
此皆有暴兵之象。
凡战气，青白如膏；如人无头；如死人卧；如丹蛇，赤气随之，必大战，杀将。
四望无云，见赤气如狗入营，其下有流血。
凡连阴十日，昼不见日，夜不见月，乱风四起，欲雨而无雨，名曰蒙，臣有谋。
雾气若昼若夜，其色青黄，更相奄冒，乍合乍散，亦然。
视四方常有大云五色具者，其下贤人隐也。
translation: 
Its aura is like a cow, like a lying man, like two snakes, flying birds, like a burst dam, like a collapsed house, like a herd of frightened deer chasing each other, like two chickens looking at each other, these are all the auras of defeat.
Any spirit of surrender is like a group of people, all crossing their hands and lowering their heads. Or, it is like people crossing their hands and facing each other.
Some qi are like black mountains, with yellow as the edge, which are signs of wanting to surrender.
Above any fortified city, there are black clouds like stars, called Junjing.
Some are white like flags, and some are blue and yellow clouds covering the city.
It's all a matter of great joy and celebration.
Some of the auras are blue, like a bull's head touching people, and some of the auras on the city are like fireworks.
Like two snakes, the shape of a spring pestle points outward, and there are also clouds that are divided into the shape of two comet tails, which all indicate that they cannot be attacked.
Generally speaking, some of the qi that will be massacred in the city are red in shape like flying birds, some are red in shape like broken carts, and some are red in color with qi like spots on raccoon fur. In some cities, the clouds gather like towers and overflow and appear outside the city. There are clouds gathered above the barracks that look like many human heads and are red. These cities and fortresses can be massacred.
Its aura is like a male pheasant approaching its city, and there will definitely be defeated people below it.
Generally, ambush troops have black air, which is chaotic, long and round, with red air in it: some are white air flying and boiling, rising like a building; some are like banners and talismans in the shape of dark clouds; some are like red pestles in dark clouds, and some are like black people standing in red clouds.
The Qi of all violent soldiers is white in color, connected together like melon vines, chasing each other like troops, and they are exhausted and retreat in an instant; some white Qi is like immortals, like the clothes of immortals, connected together thousands of times, the troops are chasing each other, tired but rising, there will be troops thousands of miles away.
Some of the clouds resembled people holding swords and shields. The clouds were shaped like people and were red in color. There was an army coming to the city they were covering.
Some of the red aura is like a man holding a knot, like a conscription coming but the war is not over yet.
The clouds are like Fang Hong.
These are all signs of tyrannical soldiers.
Generally speaking, the aura of war is bluish-white and contains grease; it is also like a human being without a head; it is like a dead person lying in bed; it is like a red snake. If the red aura follows, there will definitely be a big war and the generals will be killed.
Looking at Yuanyun from a distance, I saw red energy flowing into the camp like a dog, and it would bleed under its cover.
If it is cloudy for more than ten consecutive days, the sun cannot be seen during the day, and the moon cannot be seen at night, and the wind blows from all directions, and it wants to rain but does not, it is called Meng, and there will be conspiracy among the ministers.
The mist is misty, like day and night, green and yellow, covering each other, sometimes closing and sometimes dispersing, the same is true.
It is often seen that there are large clouds with five colors in all directions, and there are virtuous people living in seclusion under them.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
青云润泽蔽日，在西北，为举贤良。
云气如乱穰，大风将至，视所从来。
云甚润而厚，大雨必暴至。
四始之日，有黑云气如阵，厚大重者，多雨。
气若雾非雾，衣冠不濡，见则其城带甲而趣。日出没时有雾气横截之，白者丧，乌者惊，三日内雨者各解。
有云如蛟龙，所见处将军失魄。
有云如鹄尾来廕国上，三日亡。
有云赤黄色四塞，终日竟夜照地者，大臣纵恣。
有云如气，昧而浊，贤人去，小人在位。
凡白虹者，百殃之本，众乱所基。
雾者，众邪之气，阴来冒阳。
凡白虹雾，奸臣谋君，擅权立威。
昼雾夜明，臣志得申。
凡夜雾白虹见，臣有忧；昼雾白虹见，君有忧。虹头尾至地，流血之象。
凡雾气不顺四时，逆相交错，微风小雨，为阴阳气乱之象。
积日不解，昼夜昏暗，天下欲分离。
凡天地四方昏蒙若下尘，十日五日已上，或一月，或一时，雨水沾衣而有土，名曰霾。
故曰，天地霾，君臣乖。
凡海旁蜄气象楼台，广野气成宫阙，北夷之气如牛羊群畜穹庐，南夷之气类舟船幡旗。
自华以南，气下黑上赤；嵩高、三河之郊，气正赤；恆山之北，气青；勃碣海岱之间，气皆正黑；江淮之间，气皆白；东海气如员簦；附汉河水，气如引布；江汉气劲如杼，济水气如黑，渭水气如狼白尾，淮南气如白羊，少室气如白兔青尾，恆山气如黑牛青尾。
东夷气如树，西夷气如室屋，南夷气如阇台，或类舟船。
阵云如立垣。
translation: 
Green clouds cover the sun and are located in the northwest, symbolizing the promotion of virtuous people.
The clouds are chaotic and dense, and a strong wind is coming. Look at the direction it is coming from and avoid it.
The clouds are very shiny and thick, and heavy rainstorms can come suddenly.
On this day at the beginning of the fourth year, there were black clouds like military formations, thick and dense, and there must have been a lot of rain.
The atmosphere is like fog but not fog, and clothes will not get soaked. Once the city appears, war will break out quickly. There will be black and sudden changes, and the rain will disperse within three days.
A cloud appeared like a dragon, and the local general who appeared was in despair.
If a cloud appears like a swan's tail to cover the country, the three states will surely perish.
Red-yellow clouds appear in all directions and shine on the earth all day and night, indicating that the ministers are tyrannical.
The clouds are like air, dark and turbid. The sage leaves and the villain takes his place.
Any white rainbow is the source of various disasters and the foundation of chaos for all people.
Fog is the evil spirit, the yin energy that offends the yang energy.
Any white rainbow mist indicates that treacherous ministers are plotting against the monarch and are good at seizing power and establishing their own prestige.
When the day is foggy and the night is bright, your mind will be stretched.
Whenever there is fog at night and a white rainbow appears, the ruler will be in trouble. A rainbow extending from head to tail to the ground is a sign of the bleeding of the dead.
Whenever the fog does not conform to the car, it contradicts and intertwines with each other, and there is light wind and light rain, it is a sign of chaos between the two qi of yin and yang.
It lasts for several days and the day and night are dark, which is a sign that the world is about to separate.
Whenever the sky and earth are dim and hazy, like sharp soil, for more than ten to five days, or a month, or a quarter, the rain does not touch clothes but there is sharp soil, which is called haze.
Therefore, it is said that there is haze in the sky and the earth, and the king and his ministers are disobedient to each other.
The mirage of the seaside is in the shape of a tower, the aura of the vast wilderness is in the shape of a palace, the aura of the Northern Yi is like a dome of cattle and sheep, and the aura of the Southern Yi is like a boat and flags.
From the south of Huashan Mountain, the air color is black at bottom and red at top; in the suburbs of Songgao and Sanhe, the air color is true red; to the north of Hengshan Mountain, the air color is cyan; between Bo, Jie, Hai and Dai, the air color is all black; between the Jianghuai River and Huaihe River, the air color is all white; the air color in the East China Sea is like a round bamboo hat; attached The Qi of the Han River and the Yellow River is like an open cloth; the Qi of the Yangtze and Han Rivers is as strong as a household tree; the Qi of the Jishui River is like a black pigeon; the Qi of the Wei River is like the tail of a white wolf; the Qi of Huainan is like a white sheep; the Qi of Shaoshi is like a white rabbit with a green tail; the Qi of the Hengshan Mountain is like a black cow with a green tail.
The Qi of Eastern Yi is like a tree, the Qi of Western Yi is like a house, the Qi of Southern Yi is like the tower of a city gate, and some are like boats.
The formation clouds are like upright cadre walls.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
杼轴云类轴，搏，两端兑。
杓云如绳，居前亘天，其半半天；其者类阙旗故。
钩云句曲。
诸此云见，以五色占。
而泽抟密，其见动人，乃有兵必起，合斗其直。
云气如三匹帛，广前兑后，大军行气也。
韩云如布，赵云如牛，楚云如日，宋云如车，鲁云如马，卫云如犬，周云如车轮，秦云如行人，魏云如鼠，郑云如绛衣，越云如龙，蜀云如囷。
车气乍高乍下，往往而聚。
骑气卑而布。
卒气搏。
前卑后高者，疾。
前方而高后锐而卑者，却。
其气平者其行徐。前高后卑者，不止而返。
校骑之气，正苍黑，长数百丈。
游兵之气如彗扫，一云长数百丈，无根本。
平视则千里，举目望即五百里；仰瞻中天，即百里内。
平望，桑榆间二千里；登高而望，下属地者，三千里。敌在东，日出候之；在南，日中候之，在西，日入候之；在北，夜半候之。
军上气，高胜下，厚胜薄，实胜虚，长胜短，泽胜枯。
气见以知大，占期内有大风雨，久阴，则灾不成。
◎史传事验
○天变
惠帝元康二年二月，天西北大裂。
案刘向说： 天裂，阳不足，地动，阴有余。
是时人主昏瞀，妃后专制。
太安二年八月庚午，天中裂为二，有声如雷者三。
君道亏而臣下专僭之象也。
是日，长沙王奉帝出距成都、河间二王，后成都、河间、东海又迭专威命，是其应也。
穆帝升平五年八月已卯夜，天中裂，广三四丈，有声如雷，野雉皆鸣。
translation: 
The Zhu axis cloud is similar to an axis, oval in shape and pointed at both ends.
The dipping clouds are like ropes, stretching across the entire sky in front, and half of them are as wide as the sky; at this time, because of its curved rainbow, it looks like a missing flag.
The hook cloud curves like a hook.
When these clouds appear, the five colors must be used for divination.
And if the clouds are bright, oval or densely packed together, and their appearance can stir people's hearts, then there must be a war, and the whole family will be in the corresponding place.
The clouds are like three pieces of silk cloth, broad in front and sharp in the back. It is the cloud image of large troops moving.
The clouds in Han are like cloth, the clouds in Zhao are like oxen, the clouds in Chu are like suns, the clouds in Song are like chariots, the clouds in Lu are like horses, the clouds in Wei are like dogs, the clouds in Zhou are like wheels, the clouds in Qin are like pedestrians, the clouds in Wei are like rats, the clouds in Zheng are like crimson clothes, the clouds in Yue are like dragons, and the clouds in Shu are like warehouses.
The driving clouds rise and fall, often clustering together.
The spirit of the cavalry is low and broad.
The spirit of the soldiers is twisted.
The clouds are low in front and high in back. They fly quickly.
The clouds are high in the front and sharp and low in the back, flying backwards.
Those straight clouds move slowly, and the clouds that are high in the front and low in the back do not stay but move back.
The spirit of the school rider is pale black in color and hundreds of feet long.
The wandering air was like a comet sweeping over it. It was said to be hundreds of feet long and had no foundation.
In any method of predicting clouds and qi, when the qi begins to appear, it looks like clouds but not clouds, like mist but not mist, and it seems as if one can see it.
When it first appeared, it was dark and gloomy, two thousand miles among the mulberry and elm trees. The enemy's troops should be waiting in the east at sunrise; in the south, waiting when the sun is in the middle; in the west, waiting at sunset; in the north, waiting at midnight.
In terms of military spirit, the high one beats the low one, the thick one beats the thin one, the real one beats the weak one, the long one beats the short one, and the bright one beats the dry one.
The appearance of clouds can be used to predict the wind and rain, and if it is cloudy for a long time, it will not be a disaster.
◎Empirical Translation of Jin Shu and Histories
○The sky changes
In February of the second year of Emperor Hui's reign in Yuankang, the sky in the western sky cracked.
Liu Xiang said: The cracking of the sky is due to the lack of Yang Qi, and the earthquake is due to the excess of Yin Qi.
At this time, the master was ignorant and ignorant, and the concubine had exclusive power.
On Gengwu in the eighth month of the second year of Tai'an, the sky split into two, and there was a sound like thunder three times.
At this time, it was a sign that the group was at a loss and the subordinates were overstepping their authority.
At this time, King Feng of Changsha was born to stop the two rebellious kings of Chengdu and Hejian. Later, the kings of Chengdu, Hejian, Donghai and other kings continued to monopolize power and order without authorization, which was the fulfillment of the change of heaven.
On the night of Mao in the eighth month of the fifth year of Emperor Mu's reign, the sky split open, three or four feet wide, making a thunderous sound, and the pheasants began to crow.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
是后哀帝荒疾，海西失德，皇太后临朝，太宗总万机，桓温专权，威振内外，阴气盛，阳气微。
元帝太兴二年八月戊戌，天鸣东南，有声如风水相薄。
京房易妖占曰： 天有声，人主忧。
三年十月壬辰，天又鸣，甲午止。
其后王敦入石头，王师败绩。
元帝屈辱，制于强臣，即而晏驾，大耻不雪。
安帝隆安五年闰月癸丑，天东南鸣。
六年九月戊子，天东南又鸣。
是后桓玄篡位，安帝播越，忧莫大焉。
鸣每东南者，盖中兴江外，天随之而鸣也。
义熙元年八月，天鸣，在东南，京房《易传》曰： 万姓劳，厥妖天鸣。
是时安帝虽反正，而兵革岁动，众庶勤劳也。
○日蚀
魏文帝黄初二年六月戊辰晦，日有蚀之。
有司奏免太尉，诏曰： 灾异之作，以谴元首，而归过股肱，岂禹汤罪已之义乎！
其令百官各虔厥职。
后有天地眚，勿腹劾三公。
三年正月丙寅朔，日有蚀之。
十一月庚申晦，又日有蚀之。
五年十一月戊申晦，日有蚀之。
明帝太和初，太史令许芝奏，日应蚀，与太尉于灵台祈禳。
帝曰： 盖闻人主政有不德，则天惧之以灾异，所以谴告，使得自修也。
故日月薄蚀，明治道有不当者。
朕即位以来，即不能光明先帝圣德，而施化有不合于皇神，故天上有寤之。
宜敕政自修，有以报于神明。
天之于人，犹父之于子，未有父欲责其子，而可献盛馔以求免也。
今外欲谴上公与太史令俱穰祠之，于义未闻也。
群公卿士大夫，其各勉修厥职。
有可以补朕不逮者，各封上之。
translation: 
After that, Emperor Ai became seriously ill, Haixi lost his virtue, the Empress Dowager came to the court to handle the government, Taizong was Prime Minister Wanji, Huan Wen was in power, and he was powerful both internally and externally. The Yin Qi was strong and the Yang Qi was weak.
In the eighth month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a sound from the southeast sky, and the sound was like the force of Feng Shui.
Jingfang's "Yi Yaozhan" says: If there is a sound in the sky, the owner will be in trouble.
On Renchen in October of the third year, there was another sound in the sky, which stopped on Jiawu Day.
After this, Wang Dun attacked the stone and Wang's army was defeated.
Emperor Yuan was humiliated and controlled by powerful ministers, and died soon after. His humiliation was not absolved.
During the leap month of Guichou in the fifth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a sound in the southeast sky.
In the ninth month of the sixth year of Wuzi, there was another sound in the southeast sky.
After that, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and Emperor An went into exile. There was no greater sorrow than this.
Whenever the sound occurs in the southeast, it usually heralds the resurgence of the Yangtze River, and the sky will sound accordingly.
In August of the first year of Yixi, there was a sound from the sky in the southeast. Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: All the people are tired, and the demons are rising and the sky is ringing.
Although Emperor An returned to the throne at this time, there were wars and revolutions every year, and the people were extremely tired.
○solar eclipse
On Wuchen day in June of the second year of Emperor Wen of Wei Dynasty, which was the end of the month, a solar eclipse occurred.
The clerk petitioned for the dismissal of the Taiwei, and the Emperor issued an edict saying: The rise of disasters is used to condemn the person who occupies the position of head of state, but to blame the fault on the ministers who were afraid of helping. Is it consistent with the principle of Yu and Tang blaming themselves?
It is better for all officials to carefully abide by their duties.
If there is any bad omen from heaven and earth in the future, don’t impeach the three ministers again.
Bingyin is the first day of the first month of the third year and there is a solar eclipse.
At the end of November, there will be another solar eclipse.
At the end of November in the fifth year of Wushen, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the early years of Emperor Taihe's reign in the Ming Dynasty, Taishi ordered Xu Zhi to report that there would probably be a solar eclipse, and he should bless the eclipse with the Taiwei at the Lingtai.
Emperor Ming said that if a ruler is not virtuous in governing, God will use disaster to wake him up, in order to condemn him and warn him, so that he can cultivate himself.
Therefore, the phenomenon of thin eclipses in the sun and moon indicates that there is something wrong with the way of governing the country.
Since I came to the throne, I have not been able to magnify the late emperor's holy virtues, and my travels and education are not in line with the emperor of the emperor. Therefore, God uses these to enlighten me.
I should reorganize my government and practice, cultivate myself, and use this to report to the gods.
God is to man as a father is to his son. No father wants to punish his children, but he can seek forgiveness by offering sumptuous meals.
Nowadays, it is unheard of for the people to want the Grand Duke and Tai Shi Ling to perform the sacrifice of killing together in the clouds. This is morally unheard of.
All ministers, ministers and officials must diligently carry out their duties.
If you have any suggestions that can correct what I have not done, please report them to me.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
太和五年十一月戊戌晦，日有蚀之。
六年正月戊辰朔，日有蚀之。
见吴历。
青龙元年闰月庚寅朔，日有蚀之。
少帝正始元年七月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
三年四月戊戌朔，日有蚀之。
四年五月丁丑朔，日有蚀之。
五年四月丙辰朔，日有蚀之。
六年四月壬子朔，日有蚀之。
十月戊申朔，又日有蚀之。
八年二月庚午朔，日有蚀之。
是时曹爽专政，丁谧、邓飏等转改法度。
会有日蚀之变，诏群臣问得失。
蒋济上疏曰： 昔大舜佐治，戒在比周。
周公辅政，慎于其朋。
齐侯问灾，晏子对以布惠；鲁君问异，臧孙答以缓役。塞变应天，乃实人事。
济旨譬甚切，而君臣不悟，终至败亡。
九年正月乙未朔，日有蚀之。
嘉平元年二月二月已示朔，日有蚀之。
高贵乡公甘露四年七月戊子朔，日有蚀之。
五年正月乙酉朔，日有蚀之。
京房易占曰： 日有蚀乙酉，君弱臣强。
司马将兵，反征其王。
五月，有成济之变。
元帝景元二年五月丁未朔，日有蚀之。
三年十一月已亥朔，日有蚀之。
武帝泰始二年七月丙午晦，日有蚀之。
十月丙午朔，日有蚀之。
七年十月丁丑朔，日有蚀之。
八年十月辛未朔，日有蚀之。
九年四月戊辰朔，日有蚀之。
又，七月丁酉朔，日有蚀之。
十年正月乙未，三月癸亥，并日有蚀之。
咸宁元年七月甲申晦，日有蚀之。
三年正月丙子朔，日有蚀之。
四年正月庚午朔，日有蚀之。
太康四年三月辛丑朔，日有蚀之。
七年正月甲寅朔，日有蚀之。
八年正月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
九年正月壬申朔，六月庚子朔，并日有蚀之。
translation: 
On November 18, the fifth year of Taihe, a solar eclipse occurred at the end of the month.
On the first day of Wuchen day of the first month of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Seen in Wu Li.
On the first day of the leap month of the first year of Qinglong, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the seventh month of the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhengshi, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the Lunar New Year in April of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the fourth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month of the fifth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Renzi day in April of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October, Wushen Day, another solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the second lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Cao Shuang was in dictatorship, and Ding Mi, Deng Yang and others changed the rules.
Coinciding with the sudden change of the solar eclipse, the young emperor asked the ministers about the pros and cons.
Jiang Ji Shangshu said: In the past, Shun ruled the country and forbade forming parties for personal gain.
The Duke of Zhou assists the government and is wary of those who are cronies.
The Marquis of Qi asked about the disaster, and Yanzi replied that he should spread the favor widely; the Lord of Lu asked about the mutation, and Zang Sun replied that he should alleviate the source of the blockage that caused the mutation. Following God's will will help people.
The metaphor of general Ji is very profound, but the king and his ministers did not wake up, and eventually they were defeated.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the ninth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of February in the first year of Jiaping, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the seventh month of the fourth year of Ganlu, Gaogui Township, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first month of the fifth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Jingfang Yi Divination said: A solar eclipse occurs in Yiyou, which indicates that the king is weak and his ministers are strong.
Sima led the army to fight, but he counterattacked and conquered his own king.
In May, the Chengji Incident occurred.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the second year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At the end of Bingwu month in July of the second year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October, Bingwu, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of October of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Xinwei day in October of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Wuchen Day in April of the ninth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Also, a solar eclipse occurred on the first day of the seventh lunar month.
In the first month of the tenth year, there was a solar eclipse in Yiwei and in the third month of Guihai.
At the end of the Jiashen month in July of the first year of Xianning, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Xin Chou day in March of the fourth year of Taikang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of Renshen day in the first month of the ninth year and on the first day of Gengzi day in June.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
永熙元年四月庚申，帝崩。
惠帝元庚九年十一月甲子朔，日有蚀之。
十二月，废皇太子为庶人，寻杀之。
永康元年正月已卯，四月辛卯朔，并日有蚀之。
永宁元年闰月丙戌朔，日有蚀之。
光熙元年正月戊子朔，七月乙酉朔，并日有蚀之。
十一月，惠帝崩。
十二月壬午朔，又日有蚀之。
怀帝永嘉元年十一月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
二年正月丙子朔，日有蚀之。
六年二月壬子朔，日有蚀之。
愍帝建兴四年六月丁巳朔，十二月甲申朔，并日有蚀之。
五年五月丙子，十一月丙子，并日有蚀之。
时帝蒙尘于平阳。
元帝太兴元年四月丁丑朔，日有蚀之。
明帝太宁三年十一月癸已朔，日有蚀之，在卯至斗。
斗，吴分也。
其后苏峻作乱。
成帝咸和二年五月甲申朔，日有蚀之，在井。
井，主酒食，女主象也。
明年，皇太后以忧崩。
六年三月壬戌朔，日有蚀之。
是时帝已年长，每幸司徒第，犹出入见王导夫人曹氏如子弟之礼。
以入君而警敬人臣之妻，有亏君德之象也。
九年十月乙未朔，日有蚀之。是时帝既冠，当亲万机，而委政大臣，著君道有亏也。
咸康元年十月乙未朔，日有蚀之。
七年二月甲子朔，日有蚀之。
三月，杜皇后崩。
八年正月乙未朔，日有蚀之。
京都大雨，郡国以闻。
是谓三朝，王者恶之。
六月而帝崩。
穆帝永和二年四月己酉，七年正月丁酉，八年正月辛卯，并日有蚀之。
十二年十月癸巳朔，日有蚀之，在尾。
燕分，北狄之象也。
是时边表姚襄、苻生互相吞噬，朝廷忧劳，征伐不止。
translation: 
In April of the first year of Yongxi, Emperor Wu died.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the ninth year of Emperor Hui's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
In December, he deposed the crown prince as a commoner and soon killed him.
There was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of the first year of Yongkang and on the first day of the fourth lunar month, Xinmao.
On the first day of the leap month Bingxu in the first year of Yongning, a solar eclipse occurred.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of the first month of the first lunar month of Guangxi and on the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh lunar month.
In November, Emperor Hui died.
On the first day of the lunar month, Renwu, another solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of Renzi day in February of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the fourth year of Emperor Min's Jianxing reign, there were solar eclipses on the first day of the lunar month, Dingsi Day in June, and on the first day of the lunar month, Jiashen Day in December.
In the fifth year, there were solar eclipses in both May and November.
At that time, Emperor Min was suffering in Pingyang.
On the first day of April in the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, on the first day of the lunar month, a solar eclipse occurred, reaching the position of Dou Su at Mao hour.
Dou Su is the boundary between Wu.
After this, Su Jun made trouble.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, a solar eclipse occurred at the position of Jingsu.
Jingsu, the host should drink and eat, which is a symbol of the female protagonist.
The next year, the Empress Dowager died due to worries.
On the first day of Renxu day in March of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Emperor Cheng was already old. Every time he visited Situ's mansion, he would see Wang Dao's wife, Mrs. Cao, carrying the gift of his children when he came in and out.
As a ruler, a wife who respects his subordinates may show signs of failing in his virtue.
At this time, the emperor has been crowned as an adult and should take charge of all affairs personally. However, entrusting political affairs to ministers shows that there are shortcomings in the way of serving the people.
On the first day of October in the first year of Xiankang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the second lunar month of the seventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
In March, Queen Du passed away.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
It rained heavily in Kyoto, and everyone in the county heard about it.
This is called the Three Dynasties, which is the last day of the month at the beginning of the year. The king hates this situation.
Emperor Cheng died in June.
Solar eclipses all occurred on Jiyou day in April in the second year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, on Dingyou day in the first month of the seventh year, and on Xinmao day in the first month of the eighth year.
On the first day of Guisi day in October of the twelfth year, a solar eclipse occurred in Ojuku.
The tail is the boundary between Yan and Beidi.
At that time, Yao Xiang and Fu Sheng in the border areas were devouring each other. The imperial court was worried and exhausted, and conquests continued year after year.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
升平四年八月辛丑朔，日有蚀之，几既在角。
凡蚀，浅者祸浅，深者祸大。
角为天门，入主恶之。
明年而帝崩。
哀帝隆和元年三月甲寅朔，十二月戊午朔，并日有蚀之。
明年而帝有疾，不识万机。
海西公太和三年三月丁巳朔，五年七月癸酉朔，并日有蚀之。
皆海西被废之应也。
孝武帝宁康三年十月癸酉朔，日有蚀之。
太元四年闰月己酉朔，日有蚀之。
是时苻坚攻没襄阳，执硃序。
六年六月庚子朔，日有蚀之。
九年十月辛亥朔，日有蚀之。
十七年五月丁卯朔，日有蚀之。
二十年三月庚辰朔，日有蚀之。
明年帝崩。
安帝隆安四年六月庚辰朔，日有蚀之。
是时元显执政。
元兴二年四月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。
其冬桓玄篡位。
义熙三年七月戊戌朔，日有蚀之。
十年九月丁巳朔，日有蚀之。
十一年七月辛亥晦，日有蚀之。
十三年正月甲戌朔，日有蚀之。
明年，帝崩。
恭帝元熙元年十一月丁亥朔，日有蚀之。
自义熙元年至是，日蚀皆从上始，皆为革命之征。
《周礼》只眡祲氏掌十煇之法，以观妖祥，辩吉凶，有祲、象、镌、监、闇、瞢、弥、序、隮、想凡十。
后代名变，说者莫同。
今录其著应以次之云。
吴孙权赤乌十一年二月，白虹贯日。
权发诏戒惧。
武帝泰始五年七月甲寅，日晕再重，白虹贯之。
太康元年正月已丑朔，五色气冠日，自卯至酉。
占曰： 君道失明，丑为斗牛，主吴越。
translation: 
On the first day of the eighth month of the fourth year of Shengping (Xin Chou Day), a solar eclipse occurred, almost in Spica.
Whenever there is a solar eclipse, the disaster will be small if it is shallow, and the disaster will be great if it is deep.
Spica is the gate of heaven, and all human masters hate it.
Emperor Mu died the next year.
On the first day of the third month of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, there was a solar eclipse.
In the second year, Emperor Ai fell ill and was unable to handle daily government affairs.
Solar eclipses occurred on the first day of the lunar month in March of the third year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign and on the first day of the lunar month of the fifth month of the Guiyou day.
These are all signs that Haixi has been abandoned.
On the first day of Guiyou day in October of the third year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign in Ningkang, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the leap month of the fourth year of Taiyuan, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time, Fu Jian captured Xiangyang City and captured Zhu Xu.
On the first day of Gengzi Day in June of the sixth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the lunar month, October 9, the ninth year of the lunar calendar, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the fifth month of the seventeenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the third month of the 20th year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Emperor Xiaowu died the next year.
On the first day of the Gengchen day in June of the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
At this time Yuanxian was in power.
On the first day of Guisi day in April of the second year of Yuanxing, a solar eclipse occurred.
In the winter of that year Huanxuan plotted to usurp the throne.
On the first day of the Wuxu Day in July of the third year of Yixi, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the ninth lunar month in the tenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
At the end of the month of Xinhai in July of the eleventh year, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the thirteenth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
The next year, Emperor An died.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, a solar eclipse occurred.
From the first year of Yixi to this time, solar eclipses have always started from above and are symbols of the changing destiny.
"The Rites of the Zhou Dynasty" shows only ten ways of looking at the sun and clouds to observe the signs of evil and auspiciousness and identify good and bad omens. There are ten methods in total, including Xie, Xiang, Qiu, Jian, An, Wei, Mi, Xu, Xiang and Xiang.
The names of the descendants changed, and the people who told them were different.
Its apparent fulfillment is now recorded.
In February of the eleventh year of Chiwu, Wu Sunquan, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
Sun Quan issued an edict to show his fear.
In the seventh month of Jiayin in the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, a double halo of the sun appeared, and a white rainbow passed through it.
On the first day of the first month of the first year of Taikang, on the first day of Chou day, there were five-colored clouds covering the sun, from Mao hour to You hour.
The divination says: The way to be a king will be lost in the clouds and bright virtues. When ugly, it will be the star of Dou and the star of Ox, and it will dominate the land of Wuyue.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
是时孙皓淫暴，四月降。
惠帝元康元年十一月甲申，日晕，再重，青赤有光。
九年正月，日中有若飞燕者，数日乃消。
王隐以为愍怀废死之征。
永康元年正月癸亥朔，日晕，三重。
十月乙未，日闇，黄雾四塞。
占曰： 不及三年，下有拔城大战。
十二月庚戌，日中有黑气。
京房《易传》曰： 祭天不顺兹谓逆，厥异日中有黑气。
永宁元年九月甲申，月中有黑子。
京房易占： 黑者阴也，臣不掩君恶，令下见，百姓恶君，则有此变。
又曰： 臣有蔽主明者。
太安元年十一月，日中有黑气。
永兴元年十一月，日中有黑气分日。
光熙元年五月壬辰、癸巳，日光四散，赤如血流，照地皆赤。
甲午又如之。
占曰： 君道失明。
怀帝永嘉元年十一月乙亥，黄黑气掩日，所照皆黄。
案《河图》占曰： 日薄也 。
其说曰： 凡日蚀皆于朔晦，有不于晦朔者为日薄。
虽非日月同宿，时阴气盛，掩日光也。 占类日蚀。
二年正月戊申，白虹贯日，二月癸卯，白虹贯日，青黄晕，五重。
占曰： 白虹贯日，近臣为乱，不则诸侯有反者。
晕五重，有国者受其祥，天下有兵，破亡其地。
明年，司马越暴蔑人主。
五年，刘聪破京都，帝蒙尘于寇庭。
五年三月庚申，日散光，如血下流，所照皆赤。
日中有若飞燕者。
愍帝建兴二年正月辛未辰时，日陨于地。
又有三日相承，出于西方而东行。
五年正月庚子，三日并照，虹蜺弥天。
日有重晕，左右两珥。
占曰： 白虹，兵气也。
三四五六日俱出并争，天下兵作，丁巳亦如其数。
translation: 
At this time, Sun Hao was lustful and violent, so he surrendered in April.
On Jiashen day in November of the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a halo appeared around the sun, with two layers, green and red and shiny.
In the first month of the ninth year, something like a flying swallow appeared in the sun and did not disappear for several days.
Wang Yin thought it was a sign that Xinhuai would be deposed and die.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yongkang, on the first day of the lunar month, there are three haloes.
At the end of October, the sun was dim and dull, and yellow mist filled all sides.
The divination said: In less than three years, there will be a battle to capture the city.
On Gengxu day in December, there is black energy in the sun.
Jingfangshi's "Yi Zhuan" said: If the sacrifice to the sky is not in order, it is called Ni. This kind of abnormality means that there is black energy in the sun.
In Jiashen, the ninth month of the first year of Yongning, there were sunspots in the middle of the month.
The house in the capital is easy to occupy: The black one is Yin. If the ministers do not cover up the evil of the emperor, they will tell the subordinates to see it. If the people are evil to the emperor, this will happen.
He also said: There are ministers who obscure the Lord’s knowledge.
In November of the first year of Tai'an, there was black energy in the sun.
In November of the first year of Yongxing, there was black energy in the sun.
In the fifth month of the first year of Guangxi's reign, at Renchen and Guisi, the sun's rays scattered in all directions, as red as blood, and the ground was all red.
It's like this again in Jiawu.
Divination said: The king is blind.
In the eleventh month of Yihai, the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, the sun was obscured by yellow and black air, and everything outside was yellow.
The case "River Map" said: This is the day when the sun is declining.
Its saying is: All solar eclipses occur at the end of the month or the beginning of the month. If they are not in these two days, the eclipse will be eclipsed.
Although the sun and moon were not in the same constellation, the yin energy was too strong at that time and blocked the sunlight. According to divination, it was similar to a solar eclipse.
On Wushen day of the first month of the second year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun. On Guimao day of the second month, a white rainbow penetrated the sun, and a green-yellow halo appeared, with five layers.
Divination said: A white rainbow penetrating the sun indicates that the people close to you will cause trouble, otherwise there will be rebels among the princes.
The sun's halo is at the fifth level, and those who rule the country will feel its signs. There will be war in the world, and his country will be conquered and destroyed.
In the second year, Sima Yue indulged in contempt for the monarch.
In the fifth year, Liu Cong broke through Kyoto, and Emperor Huai ran to the location of the bandits.
On Gengshen Day in March of the fifth year, the sunlight was scattered, like blood flowing down, and the places it illuminated were red.
There is something like a flying swallow in the sun.
At Xinweichen in the first month of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, the sun fell to the ground.
Three more suns followed one after another, coming out from the west and moving toward the east.
In the first month of the fifth year, three suns shine side by side, and the rainbow fills the entire sky.
There are two halos around the sun, and there are two Er Qi on the left and right.
Divination said: White rainbow is the spirit of war.
There will be three, four, five and six suns appearing at the same time and competing with each other. There will be wars in the world, and there will be as many monarchs as there are suns.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
又曰： 三日并出，不过三旬，诸侯争为帝。
日重晕，天下有立王。
晕而珥，天下有立侯。
故陈卓曰： 当有大庆，天下其三分乎！
三月而江东改元为建武、刘聪、李雄亦跨曹刘疆宇，于是兵连累叶。
元帝太兴元年十一月乙卯，日夜出，高三丈，中有赤青珥。
四年二月癸亥，日斗。
三月癸未，日中有黑子，辛亥，帝亲录讯囚徒。
永昌元年十月辛卯，日中有黑子。
时帝宠幸刘隗，擅威福，亏伤君道，王敦因之举兵，逼京都，祸及忠贤。
明帝太宁元年正月乙卯朔，日晕无光。
癸巳，黄雾四塞。
占曰： 君道失明，阴阳昏，臣有阴谋。
京房曰： 下专刑，兹谓分威，蒙微而日不明。
先是，王敦害尚书令刁协、仆射周顗、骠骑将军戴若思等，是专刑之应。
敦既陵上，卒伏其辜。
十一月丙子，白虹贯日。
史官不见，桂阳太守华包以闻。
成帝咸和九年七月，白虹贯日。
咸康元年七月，白虹贯日。
二年七月，白虹贯日。
自后庾氏专政，由后族而贵，盖亦妇人擅国之义，故频年白虹贯日。
八年正月壬申，日中有黑子，丙子乃灭。
夏，帝崩。
穆帝永和八年，张重华在凉州，日暴赤如火，中有三足为乌，形见分明，五日乃止。
十年十月庚辰，日中有黑子，大如鸡卵。
十一年三月戊申，日中有黑子，大如桃，二枚。
时天子幼弱，久不亲国政。
升平三年十月丙午，日中有黑子，大如鸡卵。
少时而帝崩。
海西公太和三年九月戊辰夜，二虹见东方。
四年四月戊辰，日晕，厚密，白虹贯日中。
十月乙未，日中有黑子。
五年二月辛酉，日中有黑子，大如李。
六年三月辛未，白虹贯日，日晕，五重。
translation: 
He also said: Three days have passed together, but within thirty days, the princes are vying to be the emperor.
There are overlapping halos around the sun, and the king will be established in the world.
If there is halo and Er Qi, the world will be established.
So Chen Zhuo said: When there is Daqing, the world will be divided into three parts!
In March, Jiangdong changed its name to Jianwu, and Liu Cong and Li Xiong also crossed the territory of Cao and Liu, so wars continued year after year.
On Yimao day in the eleventh month of the first year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the sun appeared at night, three feet high, with red and green Er gas in it.
On the day of Guihai in February of the fourth year, the sun was in conflict.
At the end of the third month, there were sunspots in the sun. On the day of Xinhai, Emperor Yuan personally interrogated and interrogated the prisoners.
On Xinmao in October of the first year of Yongchang, there were sunspots in the sun.
At that time, Emperor Yuan favored Liu Wei, who was good at ruling the country and was domineering, which was harmful to the rule of the emperor. Therefore, Wang Dun raised his troops and launched an attack on Kyoto, causing disaster to the loyal and virtuous people.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taining, the Ming Dynasty, there was no light in the sun.
On Guisi day, yellow mist filled all directions.
Divination said: The king is blind, the yin and yang are dim, and the ministers have conspiracy.
Jingfang said: When the power of special punishment is transferred downward, it is called dividing authority. It is covered with dust and the sun does not shine brightly.
Before this incident, Wang Dun persecuted Shangshu Ling Diao Xie, Pu She Zhou Wei, Hussar General Dai Ruosi and others, which was the fulfillment of the special punishment.
Wang Dun committed the crime of bullying his superior and was eventually killed.
On Bingzi day in November, a white rainbow passes through the day.
The historian did not see it, but Hua Bao, the prefect of Guiyang, said that he had seen it.
In July of the ninth year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
In July of the first year of Xiankang, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
In July of the second year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
Because she is a member of the Queen's clan and is distinguished, this is also a manifestation of women's mastery of national power, so white rainbows shine through the sun year after year.
On Renshen day of the first month of the eighth year, there were sunspots in the sun, which did not disappear until Bing sun.
In the summer, Emperor Cheng died.
In the eighth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, Zhang Chonghua was in Liangzhou. The sun was strong and red like fire. There was a three-legged crow in the middle. It had a clear image and disappeared after five days.
On Gengchen day in October of the tenth year, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
In March of the eleventh year, Wushen, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as peaches.
The emperor was still young at that time and could not personally manage the affairs of the country for a long time.
On Bingwu in October of the third year of Shengping, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
Emperor Mu died soon after.
On the night of Wuchen in September of the third year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, two rainbows appeared in the east.
On the Wuchen day of April in the fourth year, the sun's halo was very thick and dense, and a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
At the end of October, there are sunspots in the sun.
In February of the fifth year of Xinyou, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
At Xinwei in March of the sixth year, a white rainbow penetrated the sun, and the sun was haloed, five times.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
十一月，桓温废帝，即简文咸安元年也。
简文咸安二年十一月丁丑，日中有黑子。
孝武宁康元年十一月己酉，日中有黑子，大如李。
二年三月庚寅，日中有黑子二枚，大如鸭卵。
十一月己巳。
日中有黑子，大如鸡卵。
时帝已长，而康献皇后以从嫂临朝，实伤君道，故日有瑕也。
太元十三年二月庚子，日中有黑子二，大如李。
十四年六月辛卯，日中又有黑子，大如李。
二十年十一月辛卯，日中又有黑子。
是时会稽王以母弟干政。
安帝隆安元年十二月壬辰，日晕，有背璚。
是后不亲万机，会稽王世子元显专行威罚。
四年十一月辛亥，日中有黑子。
元兴元年二月甲子，日晕，白虹贯日中。
三月庚子，白虹贯日。
未几，桓玄克京都，王师败绩。
明年，玄篡位。
义熙元年五月庚午。
日有彩珥。
六年五月丙子，日晕，有璚。
时有庐循逼京都，内外戒严。
七月，循走。
七年七月，五虹见东方。
占曰： 天子黜。
其后刘裕代晋十年，日在东井，有白虹十余丈在南干日。
灾在秦分，秦亡之象。
恭帝元熙二年正月壬辰，白气贯日，东西有直珥各一丈，白气贯之交匝。
○月变
魏文帝黄初四年十一月，月晕北斗。
占曰： 有大丧，赦天下。
七年五月，帝崩，明帝既位，大赦天下。
孝怀帝永嘉五年三月壬申丙夜，月蚀，既。
丁夜又蚀，既。
占曰： 月蚀尽，大人忧。
又曰： 其国贵人死。
海西公太和四年闰月乙亥，月晕轸，复有白晕贯月北，晕斗柄三星。
translation: 
In November, Huan Wen deposed the emperor, which was the first year of Xian'an in Jianwen.
Jian Wen It was Ding Chou in November of the second year of Xian'an, and there were sunspots in the sun.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
In March of the second year of the year, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as duck eggs.
It’s already November.
There are sunspots in the sun, as big as eggs.
At that time, the emperor had grown up, but Queen Kang Xian was still attending the court as a cousin-in-law, which really harmed the emperor's ethics, so there was a flaw in the sun.
In February of the thirteenth year of Taiyuan, there were two sunspots in the sun, as big as Li.
On Xin Mao in June of the fourteenth year, there were sunspots in the sun, as big as plums.
On Xin Mao, November of the 20th year, there were sunspots in the sun again.
At this time, King Kuaiji interfered in the government affairs as the younger brother of Emperor Xiaowu.
On the day of Renchen in the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Long'an's reign, the sun was haloed and there was a bright light on its back.
After this, Emperor An could no longer take care of various government affairs personally, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, took over the power exclusively.
In November of the fourth year of Xinhai, there were sunspots in the sun.
In the second month of the first year of Yuanxing, there was a halo and a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
On Gengzi Day in March, a white rainbow passes through the day.
Soon, Huan Xuan captured Kyoto and the king's army was defeated.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
It was Gengwu in the fifth month of the first year of Yixi.
There are colorful prominences on the sun.
In the sixth month of May, Bingzi, the sun was haloed and bright.
At that time, Lu Xun was approaching Kyoto, and the city was heavily guarded inside and outside.
In July, Lu Xun was defeated and fled.
In July of the seventh year, five rainbows appeared in the east.
Divination said: The emperor will be deposed.
After this, Liu Yu replaced the Jin Dynasty. In the tenth year, the sun was located in the Dongjing area, and a white rainbow more than ten feet high crossed the sun in the south.
The disaster was within the boundaries of Qin and was a symbol of Qin's demise.
On Renchen day of the first month of the second year of Yuanxi reign of Emperor Gong, white air penetrated the sun. There was a one-foot-long straight line of Er air in the east and west. The white air penetrated Er air and intersected with it.
○Monthly changes
In November of the fourth year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, the moon was hazy and the Beidou was obscured.
The fortune telling said: If there is a big funeral, the world will be amnesty.
In May of the seventh year, Emperor Wen died, and Emperor Ming ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the world.
In the third month of the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, there was a total lunar eclipse on the night of Renshen and Bing.
There is another lunar eclipse on Ding night, which is also good.
Divination says: A total lunar eclipse will bring worries to adults.
He also said: The nobles of his country are going to die.
On the leap month Yihai day of the fourth year of Haixi Gongtaihe, the halo of the moon covered the star Zhen, and a white halo penetrated the north side of the moon. The halo covered the three stars on the handle of the bucket.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
占曰： 王者恶之。
六年，桓温废帝。
安帝隆安五年三月甲子，月生齿。
占曰： 月生齿，天子有贼臣，群下自相残。
桓玄篡逆之征也。
义熙九年十二月辛卯朔，月犹见东方。
是谓之仄匿，则侯王其肃。
是时刘裕辅政，威刑自己，仄匿之应云。
十一年十一月乙未，月入舆鬼而晕。
占曰： 主忧，财宝出。
一曰： 月晕，有赦。
○月奄犯五纬
凡月蚀五星，其国皆亡。
五星入月，其野有逐相。
魏明帝太和五年十二月甲辰，月犯填星。
青龙二年十月乙丑，月又犯填星。
占同上。
戊寅，月犯太白，占曰： 人君死，又为兵。
景初元年七月，公孙文懿叛。
二年正月，遣宣帝讨之。
三年正月，天子崩。
四年三月已巳，太白与月俱加景昼见，月犯太白。
占同上。
景初元年十月丁未，月犯荧惑。
占曰： 贵人死。
二年四月，司徒韩既薨。
齐王嘉平元年正月甲午，太白袭月。
宣帝奏永宁太后废曹爽等。
惠帝太安二年十一月庚辰，岁星入月中。
占曰： 国有逐相。
十二月壬寅，太白犯月。
占曰： 天下有兵。
三年正月乙卯，月犯太白，占同青龙元年。
七月，左卫将军陈等率众奉帝伐成都王，六军败绩，兵逼乘舆。
后二年，帝崩。
元帝太兴二年十一月辛巳，月犯荧惑。
占曰： 有乱臣。
三年十二月己未，太白入月，在斗。
郭璞曰： 月属《坎》，阴府法象也。
太白金行而犯之，天意若曰，刑理失中，自毁其法。
四年十二月丁亥，月犯岁星，在房。
占曰： 其国兵饥，人流亡。
translation: 
The divination said: The king will do evil by this.
In six years, Huan Wen deposed Emperor Huai.
On the Jiazi day of the third month of the fifth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a population beside the moon.
Divination says: If there are people near the moon, there will be rebellious officials and traitors around the emperor, and the people will kill each other.
It is a sign of Huan Xuan's usurpation of power and rebellion.
On the first day of the twelfth month of the ninth year of Yixi, the moon still appeared in the east.
This is called concealment, and the king will decline.
At this time, Liu Yu was assisting the government and threatening himself, which was exactly what he should do.
On Yiwei day, November of the eleventh year, the moon entered the Yugui star and had a halo.
Divination says: The monarch is worried and treasure appears.
One saying is: If there is dizziness next to the moon, the world will be amnesty.
○The waning month violates the fifth latitude
Whenever the moon eclipses five stars, his country will perish.
The five stars invade the moon, and their divided areas have the appearance of exile.
On the Jiachen day of the twelfth month of the fifth year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, the moon touched Saturn, and the divination said: The heroine should respond to this phenomenon.
On Yi Chou day in October of the second year of Qinglong, the moon reached Saturn again.
Ditto for divination.
On Wuyin day, the moon crossed the Taibai star, and the divination said: The king will die, and there will be a war.
In July of the first year of Jingchu, Gongsun Wenyi rebelled.
In the first month of the second year, Emperor Xuan was sent to conquer him.
In the first month of the third year, the emperor passed away.
On March 14th of the fourth year, both Taibai and the moon appeared as double images in the daytime, and the moon touched Taibai.
Ditto for divination.
On the last day of October in the first year of Jingchu, the moon touched the star Yinghuo.
Divination said: The noble person will die.
In April of the second year, Situ Han passed away.
On Jiawu Day, the first month of the first year of King Jiaping of Qi, Taibai star attacked the moon.
Emperor Xuan asked Empress Dowager Yongning to abolish Cao Shuang and others.
On the Gengchen day in November of the second year of Emperor Hui's Tai'an reign, the Sui star invaded the middle of the month.
Divination said: There is a sign of exile in the country.
On the day of Renyin in the twelfth month, the Taibai star invades the moon.
Divination said: There will be war in the world.
On Yimao day of the first month of the third year, the moon crossed the Taibai star, and the divination was the same as that of the second year of Qinglong.
In July, the left guard general Chen Qi and others led the emperor to attack the king of Chengdu. The six armies were defeated and the rebels forced the court.
Two years later, Emperor Hui died.
On Xinsi day in November of the second year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the moon touched the star Yinghuo.
Divination said: A rebellious minister appears.
At the end of the twelfth month of the third year, Taibai entered the moon and was in the position of Dou Su.
Guo Pu said: The moon corresponds to the hexagram "Kan" and is the symbol of the underworld.
When Taibaijin travels to invade, God's will seems to be saying that the criminal justice system has lost its integrity and destroyed its laws and regulations.
On the day of Dinghai in the twelfth month of the fourth year, the moon and the year star were in the position of the house.
The divination says: The army of the corresponding country is starving and the people are in exile.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
永昌元年三月，王敦作乱，率江荆之众来攻，败京都，杀将相。
又，镇北将军刘隗出奔，百姓并去南亩。困于兵革。
四月，又杀湘州刺史、谯王司马承，镇南将军甘卓。
成帝咸康元年二月乙未，太白入月。
四月甲午。
月犯太白。
四年四月已巳，七月乙巳，月俱奄太白。
占曰： 人君死。
又为兵，人主恶之。
明年，石季龙之众大冠沔南，于是内外戒严。
五年四月辛示，月犯岁星，在胃。
占曰： 国饥，人流。
乙未，月犯岁星，在昴。
及冬，有沔南、邾城之败，百姓流亡万余家。
六年二月乙未，太白入月。
占曰： 人主死。
四月甲午，月犯太白。
占曰： 人主恶之。
穆帝永和八年十二月，月在东井，犯岁星。
占曰：秦饥，人流亡。
是时兵革连起。
十年十一月，月奄填星，在舆鬼。
占曰： 秦有兵。
时桓温伐苻健，健坚壁长安，温退。
十二年八月，桓温破姚襄。
升平元年十一月壬午，月奄岁星，在房。
占曰： 人饥。
一曰： 豫州有灾。
二年闰三月乙亥，月犯岁星，在房。
占同上。
三年，豫州刺史谢万败。
三年三月乙酉，月犯太白，在昴。
占曰： 人君死。
一曰： 赵地有兵，胡不安。
四年正月，暮容俊卒。
五年正月乙丑辰时，月在危宿，奄太白。
占曰： 天下靡散。
三月丁未，月犯填星，在轸。
占曰： 为大丧。
五月，穆帝崩。
七月，慕容恪攻冀州刺史吕护于野王，拔之，护奔走。
时桓温以大众次宛，闻护败，乃退。
哀帝兴宁元年十月丙戌，月奄太白，在须女。
占曰： 天下靡散。
translation: 
In March of the first year of Yongchang, Wang Dun rebelled and led Jiang Jing's troops to attack. The Kyoto division was defeated and the general was killed.
Also, General Liu Wei of Zhenbei was defeated and fled. The people all left their fields and were trapped in the chaos of war.
In April, the rebels killed Sima Cheng, the governor of Xiangzhou and King Qiao, and Gan Zhuo, the general of Zhennan.
In the second month of the first year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, the Taibai Star invaded the moon.
April Jiawu.
The moon and Taibai star.
In the fourth year of the fourth year, on the fourth day of April and the fourth day of the seventh month, the moon covered the Taibai Star.
Divination says: The monarch dies.
There will also be wars, and the master will take this as an evil.
The next year, Shi Jilong's troops invaded the south of Mianshui in a large scale, so the security inside and outside was tight.
On Xinwei day in April of the fifth year, the moon violated the Sui star and was in the field of Wei.
Divination said: There will be famine in the country and the people will be in exile.
On the last day of Yi, the moon meets the stars of the year and is in the field of Pleiades.
In winter, Miannan and Zhucheng were defeated, and more than ten thousand people fled.
On the second day of the second month of the sixth year, Taibai entered the moon.
Divination said: The king will die.
On April Jiawu day, the moon violated the Taibai star.
Divination says: The leader of the people will be evil.
In the twelfth month of the eighth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, the moon was in the place of Dongjing, which violated the Sui star.
Divination said: There is famine in Qin and the people are in exile.
At this time, military revolutions occurred year after year.
In November of the tenth year, the moon shook Saturn, in the field of Yugui.
Divination said: There is a war in Qin.
At that time, Huan Wen attacked Fu Jian, and Fu Jian held the city of Chang'an while Huan Wen's troops retreated.
In August of the twelfth year, Huan Wen defeated Yao Xiang.
On the day of Renwu in the eleventh month of the first year of Shengping, the moon shook the stars of the year, and they were in the field of Fangsu.
Divination said: The people are hungry.
He also said: There is a disaster in Yuzhou.
In the leap month of the second year, on Yihai day, the moon violated the year star and stayed in the house.
Account as above.
Three years later, Xie Wan, the governor of Yuzhou, was defeated.
On Yiyou day in the third month of the third year, the moon crossed the Taibai star and was in the Pleiades.
The divination said: You will die.
He also said: There is a war in Zhao land, and the Hu people are uneasy.
In the first month of the fourth year, Mu Rongjun passed away.
In the fifth year of the first lunar month, the moon appeared in the wilderness of Weisu, covering the Taibai star.
Divination said: The world is scattered and in chaos.
On the third day of the third month, the moon touches Saturn and is in Zhen.
Divination says: The sun is a sign of great mourning.
In May, Emperor Mu died.
In July, Murong Ke attacked Lu Hu, the governor of Jizhou, in Yewang and occupied the city of Yewang. Lu Hu was defeated and fled.
At that time, Huan Wen led a large group of troops and was stationed in Wan. When he heard that Lu Hu was defeated, he withdrew.
It was Bingxu in the tenth month of the first year of Emperor Ai's Xingning reign. The moon was about to turn white, and he was in the field of Xu Nuxing.
Divination said: The world is scattered.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
一曰： 灾在扬州。
三年，洛阳没。
其后桓温倾扬州资实北讨，败绩，死亡太半。
及征袁真，淮南残破。
后慕容及苻坚互来侵境。
三年正月乙卯，月奄岁星，在参。
占曰： 参，益州分也。
六月，镇西将军益州刺史周抚卒。
十月，梁州刺史司马勋入益州以叛。
硃序率众助刺史周楚讨平之。
海西太和元年二月丙子，月奄荧惑，在参。
占曰： 为内乱，帝不终之征。
一曰： 参，魏地。
五年，慕容为苻坚所灭。
孝武太元十二年二月戊寅，荧惑入月。
占曰： 有乱臣死，若有相戮者。
一曰： 女亲为政，天下乱。
是时琅邪王辅政，王妃从兄王国宝以姻昵受宠。
又陈郡人袁悦昧私苟进，交遘主相，扇扬朋党。
十三年，帝杀悦于市。
于是主相有隙，乱阶兴矣。
十三年十二月戊子，辰星入月，在危。
占曰： 贼臣欲杀主，不出三年，必有内恶。
是后慕容垂、翟辽、姚苌、苻登、慕容永并阻兵争强。
十四年十二月乙未，月犯岁星。
占并同上。
十五年，翟辽据司兗，众军累讨弗克，慕容氏又跨略并冀。
七月，旱。
八月，诸郡大水，兗州又蝗。
十八年正月乙酉，荧惑入月。
占曰： 忧在宫中，非贼乃盗也。
一曰： 有乱臣，若有戮者。
二十一年九月，帝暴崩内殿，兆庶宣言，夫人张氏潜行大逆。
又，王国宝邪狡，卒伏其辜。
十九年四月已巳，月奄岁星，在尾。
占曰： 为饥，燕国亡。
二十年，慕容垂遣宝伐魏，反为所破，死者数万人。
二十一年，垂死，国遂衰亡。
安帝隆安元年六月庚午，月奄太白，在太微端门外。
translation: 
He also said: The disaster happened in Yangzhou.
Three years later, Luoyang was captured.
After that, Huan Wen used all Yangzhou's money and property to conquer the north. He achieved great success and killed most of his soldiers.
By the time he conquered Yuan Zhen, the Huainan area was already in ruins.
Later, Murong Wei and Fu Jian alternately invaded the border.
In the first month of the third year, Yi Mao, the moon star was in Rigel.
Divination said: Rigel is the division of Yizhou.
In June, General Zhenxi and Yizhou Governor Zhou Fu died.
In October, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, entered Yizhou and rebelled.
Zhu Xu led his troops to help the governor Zhou Chu conquer and pacify the rebels.
On the second day of the second month of the first year of Haixi Taihe, the moon covered the star Yinghuo in the field of Betelgeuse.
Divination said: This is a sign that civil strife will occur and the monarch will not die.
He also said: Rigel corresponds to the Wei region.
Five years later, Murong Wei was destroyed by Fu Jian.
In February Wuyin of the twelfth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, the star Yinghuo invaded the moon.
Divination says: There will be rebellious ministers dying, or there will be people killing each other.
He also said: When a female relative is in power, the world will be in chaos.
At that time, King Langye was assisting the government, and the princess's cousin Wang Guobao was favored because he was a relative by marriage.
At the same time, Yuan Yue, a native of Chen County, secretly had a personal relationship with Gou Jin, sowing discord between the prime minister and the prime minister, and colluding with cronies.
In the thirteenth year, Emperor Xiaowu beheaded Yuan Yue in a busy market.
As a result, a gap arose between the principals and ministers, and war began.
On the day of Wuzi in the twelfth month of the thirteenth year, the stars entered the moon and were in danger.
Divination says: If a rebellious minister wants to kill the monarch, there will definitely be evil within him within three years.
After that, Murong Chui, Zhai Liao, Yao Chang, Fu Deng, and Murong Yong all relied on their troops to fight for victory.
On the last day of the twelfth month of the fourteenth year, the moon violated the star of the year.
Ditto for divination.
In the fifteenth year, Zhai Liao occupied Sizhou and Yanzhou, but many troops and horses failed to conquer it several times. Murong also invaded Bingzhou and Jizhou.
In July, there was a drought.
In August, floods occurred in various counties in Miazhong, and another locust plague occurred in Yanzhou.
In the first month of the eighteenth year, Yiyou, Yinghuo enters the moon.
Divination said: Worry in the palace is not a thief but a thief.
He also said: If there are rebellious ministers, there will be murderers.
In September of the 21st year, Emperor Xiaowu died violently in the inner palace. The people declared that his wife Zhang had rebelled privately.
Also, Wang Guobao was evil and cunning, and was eventually killed.
It's April of the nineteenth year, and the moon is dying and the stars are at the end.
Divination said: Due to hunger, Yan will perish.
Twenty years later, Murong Chui sent his son Murong Bao to attack Wei, but he was defeated and tens of thousands of people died in the battle.
In the twenty-first year, Murong Chui died, and the Yan Kingdom declined.
It was Gengwu in the sixth month of the first year of Emperor Long'an's reign, and the moon was about to turn white, outside Taiwei Duanmen.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
占曰： 国受兵。
乙酉，月奄岁星，在东壁。
占曰： 为饥，卫地有兵。
二年六月，郗恢遣邓启方等以万人伐慕容宝于滑台，启方败。
三年九月，桓玄等并举兵，于是内外戒严。
四年正月乙亥，月犯填星，在牵牛。
占曰： 吴越有兵丧，女主忧。
六月乙未，月又犯填星，在牵牛。
十月乙未，月奄岁星，在北河。
占曰： 为饥，胡有兵。
其四年五月，孙恩破会稽，杀内史谢琰。
后又破高雅之于余姚，死者十七八。
七月，太皇太后李氏崩。
元兴元年，孙恩寇临海，人众饿死，散亡殆尽。
元兴元年四月辛丑，月奄辰星。
七月，大饥，人相食。
二年十一月辛巳，月犯荧惑。
占悉同上。
二年十二月，桓玄篡位，放迁帝、后于寻阳，以永安何皇后为零陵君。
三年二月，刘裕尽诛桓氏。
三年二月甲辰，月腌岁星于左角。
占曰： 天下兵起。
是年二月丙辰，刘裕起义兵，杀桓修等。
明年正月，众军攻桓振，卒灭诸桓。
义熙元年四月己卯，月犯填星，在东壁。
占曰： 其地亡国。
一曰： 贵人死。
七月己未，月奄填星，在东壁。
占曰： 其国以伐己。 一曰： 人流。
十月丁巳，月奄填星，在营室。
占同上。
十一月，荆州刺史魏咏之卒。
二年二月，司马国璠等攻没弋阳。
三年，恆徒扬州刺史王谧薨。
四年正月，太保、武陵王遵薨。
三月，左仆射孔安国薨。
二年十二月丙午，月奄太白，在危。
占曰： 齐亡国。
一曰： 强国君死。
五年四月，刘裕大军北讨慕容超，卒灭之。
七年六月庚子，月犯岁星，在毕。
占曰： 有边兵，且饥。
八月乙未，月犯岁星，在参。占曰： 益州兵饥。
translation: 
Divination says: There will be war in the country.
On Yiyou day, the moon is dying and the star is on the east wall.
Divination says: There will be famine, and there will be war in the Wei territory.
In June of the second year, Xi Hui sent Deng Qifang and others to lead 10,000 people to attack Murong Bao at Huatai, but Qifang failed.
In September of the third year, Huan Xuan and others raised their troops to go to war, and martial law was imposed both inside and outside.
In the first month of the fourth year, Yihai, the moon is full of stars, at the boundary of Altair.
The divination says: There is a military death in Wuyue, and the heroine is in distress.
At the end of June, the moon fills in the stars again, at the boundary of Altair.
At the end of October, the moon is dying and the star is in the field of Pollux.
Divination said: Due to hunger, there will be war in Hu land.
In May of the fourth year, Sun En captured Kuaiji and killed Xie Yan, the internal historian.
Later, Gao Yazhi was defeated in Yuyao, with 78 out of 10 dead.
In July, Empress Dowager Li passed away.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Sun En invaded Linhai and starved many civilians to death. Almost all of them fled.
In April of the first year of Yuanxing, Xinchou, the moon shook the stars.
In July, a severe famine occurred and people ate each other.
In the eleventh month of the second year, Xinsi day, the moon was confused.
Accounting for the same as above.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne, moved the emperor and empress to Xunyang, and made Queen He of Yong'an the Lord of Lingling.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu killed all the Huan family.
In the second month of the third year, Jia Chen, the moon picks up the star of the year in the left corner.
Divination said: The world is in war.
On Bingchen in February of that year, Liu Yu rebelled and killed Huan Xiu and others.
In the first month of the second year, various people attacked Huan Zhen and finally wiped out all the Huan clan.
On the fourth day of the fourth month of the first year of Yixi, the moon crossed Saturn and was in the boundary of the east wall star.
Divination said: A certain place will be destroyed.
He also said: It symbolizes the death of a noble person.
At the end of July, the moon covers Saturn and is in the boundary between the stars on the east wall.
Divination said: A certain country will perish due to conquest. One theory: It symbolizes the exile of the country's people.
In the tenth month of the twelfth lunar month, at the end of the month, Saturn is in the field of camp stars.
Account as above.
In November, Wei Yongzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, passed away.
In February of the second year, Sima Guofan and others captured Yiyang.
In three years, Situ defeated Yangzhou governor Wang Mi and died.
In the first month of the fourth year, Sima Zun, the Taibao and King of Wuling, passed away.
In March, Zuo Pu Shekong Anguo passed away.
On Bingwu day in the twelfth month of the second year, the moon covered the Taibai star, in the boundary between the dangerous stars.
Divination said: Qi will perish.
He also said: The king of a powerful country is about to die.
In April of the fifth year, Liu Yu's army went north to attack Murong Chao, and finally eliminated them.
In the sixth month of the seventh year of Gengzi, the moon violated the Sui star and was at the boundary of the Bi star.
The divination said: There is war and famine in the border lands.
At the end of August, the moon clashes with the star of the year, in the realm of beauty, charm and life.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
七月，硃龄石克蜀，蜀人寻反，又讨之。
八年正月庚戌，月犯岁星，在毕。
占同上。
九年七月，硃龄石灭蜀。
十二年五月五月甲申，月犯岁星，在左角。
占曰： 为饥。
十四年四月壬申，月犯填星于张。
占曰： 天下有大丧。
其明年，帝崩。
恭帝元熙元年七月，月犯岁星。
占悉同上。
十二月丁巳，月犯太白于羽林。
二年六月，帝逊位，禅宋。
○五星聚舍
魏明帝太和四年七月壬戌，太白犯岁星。
占曰； 太白犯五星，有大兵。
五年三月，诸葛亮以大众寇天水。
时宣帝为大将军，距退之。
青龙二年二月己未，太白犯荧惑。
占曰： 大兵起，有大战。
是年四月，诸葛亮据渭南，吴亦起兵应之，魏东西奔命。
惠帝元康三年，填星、岁星、太白三星聚于毕昴。
占曰： 为兵丧。
毕昴，赵地也。
後贾后陷杀太子，赵王废后，又杀之，斩张华、裴頠，遂篡位，废帝为太上皇，天下从此遘乱连祸。
永宁二年十一月，荧惑、太白斗于虚危。
占曰： 大兵起，破军杀将。
虚危，又齐分也。
十二月，荧惑袭太白于营室。
占曰； 天下兵起，亡君之戒。
一曰： 易相。
初，齐王冏之京都，因留辅政，遂专傲无君。
是月，成都、河间檄长沙王乂讨之，冏、乂交战，攻焚宫阙，冏兵败，夷灭。
又杀其兄上军将军寔以下二千余人。
太安二年，成都又攻长沙，于是公私饥困，百姓力屈。
太安三年正月，荧惑犯岁星。
占曰： 有战。
七月。
translation: 
Divination said: There will be war and famine in Yizhou. In the seventh month, Zhu Lingshi defeated Shu. The Shu people quickly conquered Shu, but Zhu Ling attacked them again.
In the first month of the eighth year, Gengxu, the moon violated the Sui star, which was at the boundary of the Bi star.
Account as above.
In July of the ninth year, Zhu Lingshi destroyed Shu.
In the fifth month of the twelfth year, on Jiashen day, the moon crossed the Sui star and was in the left corner.
Divination says: There will be a famine.
On Renshen day in April of the 14th year, the moon opposed Saturn and was in the division of Zhang Xing.
Divination said: There will be a great mourning in the world.
The next year after this, Emperor An died.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, the moon clashed with the star of the year.
The divination is exactly the same as the previous divination.
On December 4th, the moon clashed with the Taibai star near the Yulin star.
In June of the second year, Emperor Gong abdicated the throne and gave way to Song Dynasty.
○Five-star gathering house
On Renxu day in the fourth year of Taihe, the fourth year of Emperor Wei Ming's reign, the Taibai star violated the Sui star.
Divination says: If Taibai star violates the five stars, there will be large-scale war.
In March of the fifth year, Zhuge Liang led a large army to invade Tianshui.
At that time Emperor Xuan was appointed as a general and resisted and repelled them.
At the end of February in the second year of Qinglong, Taibai star invaded Yinghuo star.
Divination said: A large army will be launched and a large-scale war will occur.
In April of this year, Zhuge Liang occupied Weinan. Wu also raised troops to join him, and the Wei army rushed to the east and west.
In the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the three stars Saturn, Suixing, and Taibai gathered near Bi Pleiades.
Divination said: Soldiers are mourning.
Bi Pleia is the Pleiades star, which corresponds to Zhao Di.
Later, Queen Jia framed and killed the prince. King Zhao deposed the queen, killed her, and beheaded Zhang Hua and Pei Yu. Then he usurped the throne and deposed the deposed emperor as the supreme emperor. From then on, the world suffered from turmoil and disasters one after another.
In November of the second year of Yongning, the two stars Yinghuo and Taibai fought in Xuwei.
Divination said: There will be a large-scale war, the army will be defeated, and the generals will be killed.
The place of distinction is Qi Di.
In December, the star Yinghuo invaded the Taibai star near the camp star.
Divination said: There will be war in the world, which is a bad omen for the death of the king.
He also said: The Prime Minister of the country will be changed.
At first, King Sima Ji of Qi arrived in Kyoto, so he stayed behind to assist in government affairs, so he became arrogant and arrogant.
In the middle of this month, the king of Chengdu and the king of Hejian sent a message to Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, to attack him. Sima Jiong and Sima Yi fought and attacked and burned the imperial palace. Sima Jiong was defeated and was executed and eliminated.
He also beheaded more than 2,000 people under his brother Sima Shi, the general of the army.
In the second year of Tai'an, the King of Chengdu attacked the King of Changsha again. As a result, both public and private households suffered from hunger and hardship, and the people's financial resources were exhausted.
In the first month of the third year of Tai'an, Yinghuo offended Sui Xing.
Divination says: There will be a war.
July.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
左卫将军陈奉帝伐成都，六军败绩。光熙元年九月，填星犯岁星。
占曰： 填与岁合，为内乱。
是时司马越专权，终以无礼破灭，内乱之应也。
十二月癸未，太白犯填星。
占曰： 为内兵，有大战。
是后河间王为东海王越所杀。
明年正月，东海王越杀诸葛玫等。
五月，汲桑破冯嵩，杀东燕王。
八月，苟晞大破汲桑。
怀帝永嘉六年七月，荧惑、岁星、太白聚牛、女之间，徘徊进退。
案占曰： 牛女，扬州分 ，是后两都倾覆，而元帝中兴场土。
建武元年五月癸未，太白、荧惑合于东井。
占曰： 金火合曰烁，为丧。
是时愍帝蒙尘于平阳，七月崩于寇庭。
元帝太兴二年七月甲午，岁星、荧惑会于东井。
八月乙未，太白犯岁星，合在翼。
占曰： 为兵饥。
三年六月丙辰，太白与岁星合于房。
占同上。
永昌元年王敦攻京师，六军败绩。
王敦寻死。
成帝咸康三年十一月乙丑，太白犯岁星于营室。
占曰： 为兵饥。
四年二月，石季龙破幽州，迁万余家以南。
五年，季龙众五万寇沔南，略七千余家而去。
又骑二万围陷邾城，杀略五千余人。
四年十二月癸丑，太白犯填星，在箕。
占曰： 王者亡地。
七年，慕容皝自称燕王。
七年三月，太白荧惑合于太微中，犯左执法。
明年，显宗崩。
八年十二月己酉，太白犯荧惑于胃。
占曰： 大兵起。
其后庾翼大发兵，谋伐石季龙，专制上流。
康帝建元元年八月丁未，太白犯岁星，在轸。
占曰： 有大兵。
是年石季龙将刘宁寇没狄道。
穆帝永和四年五月，荧惑入娄，犯填星。
translation: 
Chen Jin, the general of the left guard, attacked Chengdu on behalf of the emperor, and the six armies were defeated miserably. In September of the first year of Guangxi, Saturn violated the Sui star.
Divination says: Saturn conjuncts the Sui star, which is a sign of civil strife.
At that time, Sima Yue was in power, but was eventually eliminated because of his arrogance and rudeness, which was the fulfillment of civil strife.
On the day of Guiwei in December, Taibai crosses Saturn.
Divination said: There will be civil strife and large-scale war in the country.
After that, the king of Hejian was killed by Yue, the king of Donghai.
In the first month of the second year, the King of East China Sea killed Zhuge Mei and others.
In May, Ji Sang defeated Feng Song's troops and killed King Dongyan.
In August, Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang.
In July of the sixth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, Yinghuo, Suixing, and Taibai stars gathered between Niu and Nu, wandering forward and retreating.
The divination of the case said: Niu and Nuo were separated in Yangzhou. After that, both of them fell into decline, and Emperor Yuan was able to revive in Yangzhou.
In the fifth month of Guiwei in the first year of Jianwu, the two stars Taibai and Yinghuo met near Dongjing.
Divination said: The combination of gold and fire is called Shuo, which indicates a funeral.
At that time, Emperor Min was in trouble and was living in Pingyang. He died in the land of Kou Ting in July.
In the seventh month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Suixing and Yinghuo stars met near Dongjing.
On the last day of August, the Taibai star meets the Sui star and meets near the Wing star.
Divination said: This is a sign of famine in the army.
On Bingchen day in June of the third year, the Taibai star and the Suixing star met near the house.
Ditto for divination.
In the first year of Yongchang, Wang Dun attacked the capital and the six armies were defeated.
Wang Dun died soon after.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, on Yichou day, Taibai star violated Suixing in the camp.
Divination said: This is a sign of famine in the army.
In February of the fourth year, Shi Jilong captured Youzhou and moved more than ten thousand people to the south.
In the fifth year, Shi Jilong led 50,000 enemy troops to invade Miannan and plundered more than 7,000 people.
He also led 20,000 cavalry to besiege and capture the city of Zhu, killing and plundering more than 5,000 people.
On the day of Guichou in the twelfth month of the fourth year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Jisu.
Divination says: The monarch will lose his land.
In the seventh year, Murong Huang called himself King Yan.
In March of the seventh year, the Taibai star Yinghuo star converged in Taiwei and violated the left law star.
The next year, Xianzong died.
In December of the eighth year of the lunar month, the Taibai star and the Yinghuo star were near the Wei constellation.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
After that, Yu Yi sent out a large number of troops to attack Shi Jilong, thus gaining dictatorship at the top.
On the day of Dingwei in the eighth month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's reign, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was near Zhensu.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
This year Shi Jilong's general Liu Ning invaded and captured Didao.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, Yinghuo entered Lousu and violated Saturn.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
占曰： 兵大起，有丧，灾在赵。
其年石季龙死，来年冉闵杀石遵及诸胡十万余人，其后褚裒北伐，丧众而薨。
六年三月戊戌，荧惑犯岁星。
占曰： 为战。
七年三月戊子，岁星、荧惑合于奎。
其年刘显杀石祗及诸胡帅，中士大乱。
十二有年七月丁卯，太白犯填星，在柳。
占曰： 周地有大兵。
其年八月，桓温伐苻健，退，因破姚襄于伊水，定周地。
升平二年八月戊午，荧惑犯填星，在张。
占曰： 兵大起。
三年八月庚午，太白犯填星，在太微中。
占曰： 王者恶之。
五年十月丁卯，荧惑犯岁星，在营室。
占曰： 大臣有匿谋。
一曰： 卫地有兵。
时桓温擅权，谋移晋室。
海西公太和元年八月戊午，太白犯岁星，在太微中。
三年六月甲寅，太白奄荧惑，在太微端门中。
六年，海西公废。
简文咸安二年正月己酉，岁星犯填星，在须女。
占曰： 为内乱。
七月，帝崩，桓温擅权，谋杀侍中王坦之等，内乱之应。
孝武宁康二年十一月癸酉，太白奄荧惑，在营室。
占曰： 金火合为烁，为兵丧。
太元元年七月，苻坚伐凉州，破之，虏张天锡。
太元十一年十二月己丑，太白犯岁星。
占曰： 为兵饥。
是时河朔未平，兵连在外，冬大饥。
十七年九月丁丑，岁星、荧惑、填星同在亢、氐。
十二月癸酉，填星去，荧惑、岁星犹合。
占曰： 三星合，是谓惊立绝行，内外有兵丧与饥，改立王公。 十九年十月，太白、填星、荧惑辰星合于氐。
十二月癸丑，太白犯岁星，在斗。
占曰： 为乱饥，为内兵。
斗吴越分。
至隆字元年，王恭等举兵，显王国宝之罪，朝廷杀之。
是后连岁水旱饥。
translation: 
Divination said: Large-scale wars will occur, there will be funerals, and disasters will occur in Zhao.
This year Shi Jilong died. The next year Ran Min killed Shi Zun and more than 100,000 people from various ethnic groups. Afterwards, Chu Pei went north to conquer and lost his army and died.
On March 18th, the sixth year of the lunar calendar, Yinghuo offended the star of the year.
Divination says: There will be war.
In the third month of the seventh year, Wuzi, Sui Xing and Yinghuo merged into Kui Su.
This year Liu Xian killed Shi Zhi and other Hu generals, causing chaos in the Central Plains.
On Dingmao day in the seventh month of the twelfth year, Taibai star opposed Saturn near Liusu.
Divination said: There will be a big war in Zhou Dynasty.
In August of this year, Huan Wen defeated Fu Jian and was defeated. He defeated Yao Xiang in Yishui and stabilized the Zhou Dynasty.
On Wuwu in August of the second year of Shengping, Yinghuo violated Saturn and was near Zhang Su.
Divination said: The army will rise.
In the eighth month of the third year of the lunar month, Taibai crossed Saturn, in Taiwei.
Divination said: The king will take this as evil.
On Dingmao day in October of the fifth year, Yinghuoxing attacked Suixing near the camp.
Divination said: The minister has a hidden agenda.
He also said: There is war in the Wei area.
At that time, Huan Wen was in power and plotted to overthrow the Jin Dynasty.
In the eighth month of the first year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, the Taibai star violated the Sui star and was in Taiwei.
On the day of Jiayin in June of the third year, the Taibai star covered the Yinghuo star in the Taiwei Duanmen.
In six years, Duke Haixi was deposed.
In the first month of the second year of Jianwen's Xian'an year, the Sui star crossed Saturn near the female star.
Divination says: There will be civil strife.
In July, Emperor Mu died. Huan Wen took over the power and murdered Wang Tanzhi and others in response to the civil strife.
On Guiyou day in November of the second year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, the Taibai star covered the Yinghuo star and was near the Yingshi star.
Divination says: Gold and fire combine to form a flash, which indicates death in war.
In July of the first year of Taiyuan, Fu Jian attacked Liangzhou, captured it, and captured Zhang Tianxi.
On Ji Chou day in the twelfth month of the eleventh year of Tai Yuan, the Taibai star violated the Sui star.
Divination said: It indicates famine in the army.
At that time, the north of the Yellow River was not pacified, and the army was away for many years. A serious famine occurred in winter.
On Ding Chou day in September of the 17th year, Suixing, Yinghuo, and Saturn appeared near Kangsu and Disu at the same time.
On Guiyou day in December, Saturn will leave, but the Yinghuo star and the Sui star will still be together.
Divination said: The three stars converge, which interrupts the normal operation of the stars, indicating that there will be famine and military deaths inside and outside, and the king and ministers will be replaced. In October of the 19th year, Taibai, Saturn, and Yingluo gathered near Di.
On the Guichou day of the twelfth lunar month, the Taibai star crosses the Sui star and is in the constellation Dou.
Divination said: It indicates unrest and famine. There is war in the country.
Dou Su is the dividing line between Wu and Yue.
In the first year of Long'an, Wang Gong and others launched an attack to expose Wang Guobao's crimes, and the court executed him.
After this, floods, droughts and famines occurred in successive years.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
安帝隆安元年二月，岁星、荧惑皆入羽林。
占曰： 中军兵起。
四月，王恭等举兵，内外戒严。
元兴元年八月庚子，太白犯岁星，在上将东南。
占曰： 楚兵饥。
一曰： 灾在上将。
二年，桓玄篡位。
三年，刘裕尽诛桓氏。
二年十月丁丑，太白犯填星，在娄。
占同上。
三年二月壬辰，太白、荧惑合于羽林。
二年十二月，桓玄篡位，放迁帝、后。
三年二月，刘裕起义兵，桓玄逼帝东下。
义熙二年十二月丁未，荧惑、太白皆入羽林，又合于壁。
三年正月，慕容超寇淮北、徐州，至下邳。
八月，遣刘敬宣伐蜀。
三年二月癸亥，荧惑、填星、太白、辰星聚于奎、娄、从填星也，徐州分。
是时，慕容超僭号于齐，兵连徐兗，连岁寇抄，至于淮泗，姚兴、谯纵僭号秦蜀，卢循及魏南北交侵。
其五年，刘裕北殄慕容超。
其六月辛卯，荧惑犯辰星，在翼。
占曰： 天下兵起。
八月己卯，太白奄荧惑。
占曰： 有大兵。
其四年，姚略遣众征赫连勃勃，大为所破。
五年四月甲戌，荧惑犯辰星，在东井。
占曰： 皆为兵。
十二月辛丑，太白犯岁星，在奎。
占曰： 大兵起，鲁有兵。
是年四月，刘裕讨慕容超。
六年二月，灭慕容超于鲁地。
七年七月丁卯，岁星犯填星，在参。
占曰： 岁填合，为内乱。
一曰： 益州战，不胜，亡地。
是时硃龄石伐蜀，后竟灭之。
明年，诛谢混、刘毅。
八年七月甲申，太白犯填星，在东井。
占曰： 秦有大兵。
九年二月丙午，荧惑、填星皆犯东井。
占曰？ 秦有兵。
三月壬辰，岁星、荧惑、填星、太白聚于东井，从岁星也。
东井，秦分。
translation: 
In February of the first year of Emperor Long'an, both Suixing and Yinghuo entered the Yulin.
Divination said: There will be a war in the Chinese army.
In April, Wang Gong and others raised troops to ask questions, and martial law was imposed inside and outside.
On Gengzi day in August of the first year of Yuanxing, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was in the southeast of the General star.
Divination said: There will be famine among the soldiers in Chu.
He also said: The disaster occurred in the place where the admiral star separates.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
In three years, Liu Yu killed all the Huan family.
On the day of Ding Chou in October of the second year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Lousu.
Account as above.
On Renchen Day in February of the third year, Taibai Star and Yinghuo Star met near Yulin Star.
In December of the second year, Huan Xuan succeeded in usurping the throne and brought Emperor An and Empress out of the country.
In February of the third year, Liu Yu launched a rebel army, and Huan Xuan forced Emperor An to go eastward.
At the end of December in the second year of Yixi, Yinghuo and Taibai both entered the Yulin star and met near Bisu.
In the first month of the third year, Murong Chao invaded Huaibei and Xuzhou as far as Xiapi.
In August, Liu Jingxuan was sent to conquer Shu.
On the day of Guihai in the second month of the third year, Yinghuo, Saturn, Taibai, and Chenxing gathered near Kuisu and Lousu, following Saturn, and formed the boundary between Xuzhou and Xuzhou.
At that time, Murong Chao was called Yue in Qi, and his military deployment was from Xuzhou to Yanzhou. He invaded and looted for many years, all the way to Huai River and Si River. Yao Xing and Qiao Zong were named Yue in Qin and Shu respectively. Lu Xun and Wei invaded from all sides from the north and south.
Five years later, Liu Yu went north and destroyed Murong Chao.
On Xinmao day of June, Yinghuo star invaded Chenxing and was in Yisu.
Divination said: There will be war in the world.
On August 9th, the Taibai star shook the Yinghuo star.
Divination says: There will be a large-scale war.
In the fourth year, Yao Lue sent many soldiers to conquer Helianbobo, but they were severely defeated.
On the Jiaxu day in April of the fifth year, Yinghuo star invaded Chenxing and stayed in Dongjing.
Divination said: There will be wars.
On the Xin Chou day of the twelfth lunar month, the Taibai star crossed the Sui star and was near Kuisu.
Divination said: Large-scale war will occur, and there will be war in Lu.
In April of this year, Liu Yu conquered Murong Chao.
In February of the sixth year, Murong Chao was killed in Lu.
In the seventh month of the seventh year, on Ding Mao, the year star crossed Saturn and was near Rigel.
Divination says: The conjunction of the Sui star and Saturn is a sign of civil strife.
He also said: There will be a war in Yizhou. If we cannot win, we will lose our land.
At this time, Zhu Lingshi attacked Shu and later destroyed it.
The next year, Xie Hun and Liu Yi were killed.
On Jiashen Day in July of the eighth year, Taibai crossed Saturn and was near Dongjing Su.
Divination said: There will be large-scale war in Qin.
On Bingwu day in February of the ninth year, Yinghuo and Saturn both invaded Dongjing constellation.
Divination said? There is a war in Qin.
On Renchen day in March, the Sui star, Yinghuo star, Saturn, and Taibai star gathered in Dongjing constellation, following the Sui star.
Dongjing is the dividing line between Qin and Qin.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
十三年，刘裕定关中，其后遂移晋祚。
十四年十月癸巳，荧惑入太微，犯西蕃上将，仍顺行至左掖门内，留二十日乃逆行。
至恭帝元熙元年三月五日，出西蕃上将西三尺许，又顺还入太微。
时填星在太微，荧惑绕填星成钩己，其年四月丙戌，从端门出。
占曰： 荧惑填星钩己天庭，天下更纪。
十二月，安帝母弟琅邪王践阼，是曰恭帝。
来年，禅于宋。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year, Liu Yu pacified Guanzhong, and then shook the succession of Jin's throne.
In the tenth month of the fourteenth year of Guisi, the star Yinghuo entered Taiwei and violated the star of the General of Xibo. It still moved forward to Zuoyemen, stayed for twenty days and then moved retrograde.
On March 5, the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, he left the general star of Xibo and headed about three feet to the west, and then headed back to Taiwei.
At that time, Saturn was in Taiwei, and Yinghuo and Saturn were in the shape of a hook. On Bingxu in April of this year, it left Duanmen.
Divination said: The stars Yinghuo and Saturn are in the sky, and the world will change its dynasty.
In December, Emperor An's younger brother, King Langxie, ascended the throne as emperor. This was Emperor Gong.
In the second year, the Zen position was given to Song Dynasty.


