Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张缅弟缵绾张缅，字元长，车骑将军弘策子也。
年数岁，外祖中山刘仲德异之，尝曰： 此儿非常器，为张氏宝也。
齐永元末，义师起，弘策从高祖入伐，留缅襄阳，年始十岁，每闻军有胜负，忧喜形于颜色。
天监元年，弘策任卫尉卿，为妖贼所害，缅痛父之酷，丧过于礼，高祖遣戒喻之。
服阕，袭洮阳县侯，召补国子生。
起家秘书郎，出为淮南太守，时年十八。
高祖疑其年少未闲吏事，乃遣主书封取郡曹文案，见其断决允惬，甚称赏之。
还除太子舍人、云麾外兵参军。
缅少勤学，自课读书，手不辍卷，尤明后汉及晋代众家。
客有执卷质缅者，随问便对，略无遗失。
殿中郎缺，高祖谓徐勉曰： 此曹旧用文学，且居鹓行之首，宜详择其人。
勉举缅充选。
顷之，出为武陵太守，还拜太子洗马，中舍人。
缅母刘氏，以父没家贫，葬礼有阙，遂终身不居正室，不随子入官府。
缅在郡所得禄俸不敢用，乃至妻子不易衣裳，及还都，并供其母赈赡亲属，虽累载所畜，一朝随尽，缅私室常阒然如贫素者。
累迁北中郎谘议参军、宁远长史。
出为豫章内史。
缅为政任恩惠，不设钩距，吏人化其德，亦不敢欺，故老咸云 数十年未之有也 。
大通元年，征为司徒左长史，以疾不拜，改为太子中庶子，领羽林监。
俄迁御史中丞，坐收捕人与外国使斗，左降黄门郎，兼领先职，俄复为真。
缅居宪司，推绳无所顾望，号为劲直。高祖乃遣画工图其形于台省，以励当官。
中太通三年，迁侍中，未拜，卒，时年四十二。
诏赠侍中，加贞威将军，侯如故。
translation: 
Zhang Mian, also known as Yuan Chang, was the son of the chariot and cavalry general Hong Ce.
When he was only a few years old, his maternal grandfather Liu Zhongde, who was from Zhongshan, thought he was very special. He once said: This son is not an ordinary person, he is the noble person of the Zhang family.
At the end of the Yongyuan period of the Qi Dynasty, the righteous army rose up. Hongce followed Gaozu to Beijing to crusade, leaving Zhang Mian in Xiangyang. He was just ten years old. Every time he heard about the victory or defeat of the army, his face showed sorrow and joy.
In the first year of Tianjian, Hong Ce was appointed Wei Qing and was killed by demon thieves. Zhang Mian grieved that his father died tragically and went beyond the usual mourning rituals. He sent people to warn and advise.
When the period of mourning is over, the mourning period is over, he inherits the title of Marquis of Taoyang County, and summons the descendants of the country.
He was recruited from his family as secretary Lang and appointed as the governor of Huainan at the age of eighteen.
Concerned that he was young and not familiar with official affairs, he sent his master to write a letter to obtain the copy of the county magistrate. When he saw that his decision was appropriate, he highly praised him.
After returning to the capital, he was appointed Prince Sheren, and Yun Hui served as a foreign soldier to join the army.
Zhang Mian studied diligently when he was young, completed the required reading by himself, kept writing, and was very clear about selecting and criticizing various academic schools.
When a guest holds a scroll and asks for advice, he answers his questions without missing anything.
There was a vacancy in the palace, and the chief minister said to Tu Tian: "This position has traditionally been for appointing people with literary talent, and it is at the head of the court. The person appointed should be carefully selected."
Zhang Mian was recommended for selection.
Soon after, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuling, and was appointed Prince Xima and Zhongsheren in the capital.
Zhang Mian's mother Liu Ya, because Zhang Mian's father died in a poor family and the burial etiquette was not thorough, so she never lived as the main wife or lived with her son in the official residence.
Qiang Mian did not dare to use the salary he earned in the county, and even his wife and children did not wear new clothes. When he returned to the capital, he gave it all to his mother to support his relatives. Although it was all his savings for many years, it was all used up in a short time. Zhang Mian's private room was often empty, like an ordinary poor family.
After repeated promotions, he was appointed as Beizhonglang and consulted to join the army. He was willing to have a long history.
He served as the internal history of Yuzhang.
Zhang Mian used favors for the government and did not investigate repeatedly because of suspicion. Officials and people were inspired by his virtues and did not dare to commit fraud. Therefore, the old people said: There has been no such person in decades.
In the first year of Datong, he was conscripted into the post of Situ Zuo Changshi. Due to illness, he was not accepted. He was appointed as the prince's concubine and led the Yulin Supervisor.
Soon he was moved to the post of Yushi Zhongcheng. He was convicted of arresting people and fighting with foreign envoys. He was demoted to Huangmenlang, which also took the lead in his previous post. Soon he was changed to a real professor.
Zhang Mian served as the imperial censor. He was fearless and hesitant in handling matters according to the law, and was known to be upright. Emperor Gaozu sent a painter to paint a portrait of him and place it in the official office of the minister to encourage officials.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to serve as a minister, but he was not accepted and died at the age of forty-two.
Shaoling gave him posthumous gifts to his servants and added him to General Zhenwei, but the marquis remained the same.
summary:
Zhang Mian, also known as Yuan Chang, was the son of General Hong Ce. As a child, his maternal grandfather Liu Zhongde recognized his exceptional nature, declaring him a noble person of the Zhang family. During the Qi Dynasty's Yongyuan period, when his father followed Gaozu to war, ten-year-old Zhang Mian was left in Xiangyang, where his emotions mirrored the army's victories and defeats. After his father was killed by demon thieves in the first year of Tianjian, Zhang Mian mourned excessively, beyond normal rituals. Upon completing mourning, he inherited the title of Marquis of Taoyang County. At eighteen, he was appointed governor of Huainan. Concerned about his youth, his superior sent a master to evaluate him but was impressed by his appropriate decisions. Returning to the capital, he served as Prince Sheren and later as a foreign soldier joining the army. Zhang Mian studied diligently, mastered required readings, and wrote extensively, clearly critiquing various academic schools. He answered guests' questions without omission. When a palace position became vacant, the chief minister recommended Zhang Mian for his literary talent. He later served as prefect of Wuling and Prince Xima. His mother Liu Ya, due to his father's poor burial, never lived as the main wife or in official residences. Zhang Mian did not use his salary for personal gain, giving it all to his mother, leaving his household as frugal as a poor family. He was promoted to Beizhonglang and served as internal history of Yuzhang, governing with favor and without suspicion, inspiring officials and people not to commit fraud. Elders noted no such governance in decades. In the first year of Datong, he was summoned as Situ Zuo Changshi but declined due to illness, later becoming the prince's concubine and Yulin Supervisor. He was moved to Yushi Zhongcheng but demoted for arresting people and fighting with foreign envoys. As imperial censor, he was fearless and upright, prompting Gaozu to have his portrait painted to encourage officials. In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to serve as a minister but died at forty-two. Gaozu wept bitterly, and Prince Zhaoming mourned, praising Zhang Mian's knowledge and official skills in a letter to his brother. Zhang Mian loved classical books, collecting over 10,000 volumes, and compiled "Hou Han Ji" and "Jin Chao" along with "Jiangzuo Collection," though unfinished. His son Fu inherited his title.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
河东裴子野曰： 张吏部在喉舌之任，已恨其晚矣。
子野性旷达，自云 年出三十，不复诣人。
初未与缵遇，便虚相推重，因为忘年之交。
大通元年，出为宁远华容公长史，行琅邪、彭城二郡国事。
二年，仍迁华容公北中郎长史、南兰陵太守，加贞威将军，行府州事。
三年，入为度支尚书，母忧去职。
服阕，出为吴兴太守。
缵治郡，省烦苛，务清静，民吏便之。
大同二年，征为吏部尚书。
缵居选，其后门寒素，有一介皆见引拔，不为贵要屈意，人士翕然称之。
五年，高祖手诏曰： 缵外氏英华，朝中领袖，司空以后，名冠范阳。
可尚书仆射。
初，缵与参掌何敬容意趣不协，敬容居权轴，宾客辐凑，有过诣缵者，辄距不前，曰： 吾不能对何敬容残客。
及是迁，为表曰： 自出守股肱，入尸衡尺，可以仰首伸眉，论列是非者矣。
而寸衿所滞，近蔽耳目，深浅清浊，岂有能预。
加以矫心饰貌，酷非所闲，不喜俗人，与之共事。
此言以指敬容也。
缵在职，议南郊御乘素辇，适古今之衷；又议印绶官备朝服，宜并著绶，时并施行。
九年，迁宣惠将军、丹阳尹，未拜，改为使持节、都督湘、桂、东宁三州诸军事、湘州刺史。述职经途，乃作《南征赋》。
其词曰：
岁次娵訾，月惟中吕，余谒帝于承明，将述职于南楚。
忽中川而反顾，怀旧乡而延伫；路漫漫以无端，情容容而莫与。
translation: 
Pei Ziye, a native of Hedong, said: Zhang Libu has been appointed as the mouthpiece, but it is a pity that he was appointed late.
Ziye has an open-minded temperament and says to himself: When he is over thirty years old, he no longer visits people.
He had not met Zhang Lan at first, so he humbly respected him, and thus they became a close friend.
In the first year of Datong, he served as the official historian of Ningyuan Huarong, and also took photos of the state affairs of Langye and Pengcheng counties.
In the second year, he was moved to the post of Huarong Gongbeizhonglang Changshi and Mu Lanling prefect, and was awarded the title of General Zhenwei to handle the affairs of the prefecture.
In the third year, he entered the imperial court and was appointed as the minister of the branch. When his mother died, he resigned.
After the period of mourning was over, he was relieved of his duties and became the prefect of Wuxing.
Zhang Zuan managed the county affairs, eliminating the cumbersome affairs, making the administration clear and simple, and the people all found it convenient.
In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Zhang Zan served as the official of selection, and the people who came to his back door were all from humble backgrounds. The upright people were promoted, and they did not change their opinions for the important people. The scholars unanimously praised him.
In the fifth year of Datong, Emperor Gaozu wrote a Shao Shu book and said: Zhang Zuan is the Yinghua of his grandfather's family and the leader of the imperial court. After Sikong Zhang Mian, his reputation is the first in Fan Yang.
You can let him serve as a servant of the minister.
At first, Zhang Zan and his minister He Jingrong were not in harmony. Jingrong was the prime minister and guests gathered. When his guests passed by to visit Zhang Zan, he always refused to come, saying: I can't treat He Jingrong's disabled guests.
When he was transferred this time, he wrote: "Since I have been appointed as a minister to assist the monarch, and have been in charge of selecting talents, I can raise my head and raise my eyebrows to judge right and wrong."
However, he was hindered by his narrow mind and his ears and eyes were blocked. Deep and shallow, clear and muddy, how could he have the ability to intervene.
In addition, it is impossible to prevent him from concealing his feelings, and he does not like to work with extremely restless vulgar people.
This statement refers to captivity.
When Zhang Lian was in office, he proposed that the emperor should be enshrined in a car without decorations in the southern suburbs, which was suitable for ancient and modern times. He also proposed that court uniforms should be prepared for the Yinshou Palace, and that they should all be printed with ribbons, which was implemented at that time.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to the posts of General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin. When he was not appointed, he was appointed as envoy Chijie and governor Yu Guasai. He was the military and fishery governor of the three prefectures. On the way to take office, he wrote "Ode to the Southern Expedition".
Its words say:
The star of the year is in Kunzi, and the time is April. I have an audience with the emperor in the Chengming Hall, and I am about to take office and go to Nanchu.
Suddenly I came to Zhongchuan and looked back, missing my old hometown and stopping in my tracks; the road was long and endless, and there was no one to express my feelings.
summary:
Zhang Zan, courtesy name Boxu, was Zhang Mian's third brother, adopted by his uncle Hong Ji. At eleven, he married Princess Fuyang, Emperor Gaozu's fourth daughter, becoming Prince Consort Duwei. At seventeen, he was recruited as a secretary. Standing seven feet four inches tall with handsome features, Gaozu found him remarkable. Zhang Zan was eager to learn, reading his brother's vast collection day and night. As one of four Secretary Langs, he firmly requested not to move positions to read all books in the pavilion. He was later moved to Prince Sheren and then Xima and Zhongsheren, managing records. He was as famous as Wang Xi. In the early Tongren years, Northern Wei's Liu Shanming admired him greatly. Zhang Zan was promoted to Taiwei and Minister of Libu Lang, becoming commander and minister at a young age. Pei Ziye praised him as a mouthpiece but regretted his late appointment. In the first year of Datong, he served as official historian of Ningyuan Huarong and managed Langye and Pengcheng counties. He later became Huarong Gongbeizhonglang Changshi and Mu Lanling prefect. In the third year, he entered the court as minister of the branch but resigned when his mother died. After mourning, he became prefect of Wuxing, simplifying administration for the people's convenience. In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, promoting upright people without changing for the powerful. In the fifth year, Gaozu praised him as the leader of the imperial court. Zhang Zan had conflicts with He Jingrong, refusing to treat his guests. In office, he proposed suitable ancient and modern reforms for court uniforms. In the ninth year, he was transferred to General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin but was appointed as envoy Chijie and governor Yu Guasai. On his way, he wrote "Ode to the Southern Expedition," reflecting on his journey, governance, and historical reflections. He managed Xiangzhou effectively, increasing household registration by over 100,000 and bringing peace. In the second year of Taiqing, he was recruited as leader and later as governor of multiple regions. He had conflicts with Xiao Shu and Xiao Yu, leading to his arrest and forced shaving as a Taoist priest. He was killed at fifty-one. Emperor Yuan posthumously honored him as Jian Xian Gong. Zhang Zan wrote one hundred volumes of "Hongbao" and twenty volumes of collected works. His son Zhang Wang married Princess Haiyan.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
时丹阳尹西昌侯萧渊藻以久疾未拜，敕绾权知尹事，迁中军宣城王长史，俄徙御史中丞。
高祖遣其弟中书舍人绚宣旨曰： 为国之急，惟在执宪直绳，用人本不限升降。
晋宋之世，周闵、蔡廓并以侍中为之，卿勿疑是左迁也。
时宣城王府望重，故有此旨焉。
大同四年元日，旧制仆射中丞坐位东西相当，时绾兄缵为仆射，及百司就列，兄弟导驺，分趋两陛，前代未有也，时人荣之。
岁余，出为豫章内史。
绾在郡，述《制旨礼记正言》义，四姓衣冠士子听者常数百人。
八年，安成人刘敬宫挟祅道，遂聚党攻郡，内史萧侻弃城走。
贼转寇南康、庐陵，屠破县邑，有众数万人，进寇豫章新淦县。
南中久不习兵革，吏民恇扰奔散。
或劝绾宜避其锋，绾不从，仍修城隍，设战备，募召敢勇，得万余人。
刺史湘东王遣司马王僧辩帅兵讨贼，受绾节度，旬月间，贼党悉平。
十年，复为御史中丞，加通直散骑常侍。
绾再为宪司，弹纠无所回避，豪右惮之。
是时城西开士林馆聚学者，绾与右卫硃异、太府卿贺琛递述《制旨礼记中庸》义。
太清二年，迁左卫将军。
会侯景寇至，入守东掖门。
三年，迁吏部尚书。
宫城陷，绾出奔，外转至江陵。湘东王承制，授侍中、左卫将军、相国长史，侍中如故。
出为持节、云麾将军、湘东内史。
承圣二年，征为尚书右仆射，寻加侍中。
translation: 
During the Han Dynasty, Xiao Yuanzao, the Marquis of Xichang in Danyang Yin, was unable to take up his post due to a long illness. He ordered Zhang Wanquan to know about Yin's affairs and move him to the post of Changshi, King of Xuancheng of the Chinese Army.
Not long after he moved to Zhongcheng, the imperial censor, Emperor Gaozu sent Zhang Wan's younger brother, Zhang Xuan, from Zhongshushe, to announce an imperial edict: "The most urgent task in governing the country is that those who implement the laws must be as upright as ropes of ink. There should be no restrictions on promotion or demotion of personnel."
During the Jin and Song dynasties, Zhou Min and Cai Kuo were appointed as Shizhong and Yushi Zhongcheng. Please do not doubt that this is a demotion.
At that time, Xuancheng Palace was very famous, so there was this imperial edict.
In the fourth year of Datong, under the old system of servants, the two posts of servants were of equal rank in the east and west. Zhang Wan's brother Zhang Zan was sent to serve as servant. When the hundred ministers lined up, each brother led the queue and walked quickly to the steps on both sides. This situation was unprecedented in the previous generation and was praised by people at the time.
More than a year later, he was appointed as the internal history of Yuzhang.
When Zhang Wan was in the county, he lectured on the principles of "The Right Statement of the Book of Rites", and there were often hundreds of people listening to the lectures, including nobles, officials, gentry, and scholars taking exams.
In the eighth year of An's reign, Liu Jinggong held Ao Dao hostage, and gathered his comrades to attack the county. Xiao Yue, the internal historian, abandoned the city and fled.
The thieves then invaded Muchen and Luling, conquered the counties and towns, and numbered ten thousand people. They also invaded Xingan County in Yuzhang.
The south has not been accustomed to war for a long time, and the officials and people are afraid and scattered.
Some people advised Zhang Wan to avoid the sharp attack of the thieves, but Zhang Wan did not listen. He still built trenches, set up war preparations, recruited brave people, and received more than ten thousand.
The governor of Xiangdong, King Xiangdong, sent Sima Wang Sengbian to lead his troops to fight against the thieves, and accepted Zhang Wan's command. Within a month, all the thieves were pacified.
Ten years later, he was again appointed as the censor Zhongcheng, and was appointed as the regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
Zhang Wan once again served as the censor. He was unstoppable and powerful people were afraid of him.
When he was sent, a scholar's hall was opened in the west of the city to gather people who wanted to study. Zhang Wan, his right guard Zhu Yi, and Taifu Qing He Chen passed on the teachings and principles to each other.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he was promoted to Zuowei General.
When Hou Jing invaded the capital, Zhang Wan went to guard Shuye Gate.
Three years later, he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
When the palace fell, Zhang Wan fled out of the city and turned to Jiangling. King Xiangshu followed the emperor's will and granted Zhang Wan the title of Shizhong, Zuowei General, and Prime Minister. The Shizhong remained as usual.
He served as Chijie, General Yunhui, and Internal History of Eastern Hunan.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, he was recruited as Minister Youpushe, and soon he was appointed as Shizhong.
summary:
Zhang Wan, courtesy name Xiaoqing, was Zhang Zan's fourth brother. Excelling in shooting as a first-year student, he was recruited as chief and secretary, later moving to Prince Sheren and other roles. He was promoted to Zhongshu Lang and Doctor of Guozi, serving as Lang Changshi of Beizhong and Grand Administrator of Lanling. During the Han Dynasty, he managed Danyang Yin's affairs due to Xiao Yuanzao's illness. He moved to Zhongcheng, where Gaozu praised his legal uprightness. In the fourth year of Datong, he and his brother Zhang Zan served as servants, an unprecedented situation praised by contemporaries. He became internal history of Yuzhang, lecturing on "The Right Statement of the Book of Rites" to hundreds. In the eighth year, when Liu Jinggong held Ao Dao hostage, Zhang Wan ignored advice to flee, built defenses, recruited over 10,000 brave men, and pacified the thieves with Wang Sengbian's help. Ten years later, he again served as censor Zhongcheng, unstoppable and feared by the powerful. He opened a scholar's hall in the city. In the second year of Taiqing, he was promoted to Zuowei General, guarding Shuye Gate during Hou Jing's invasion. Three years later, he became Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. After the palace fell, he fled to Jiangling, where King Xiangshu granted him titles. He served as Chijie and Internal History of Eastern Hunan. In the second year of Chengsheng, he was recruited as Minister Youpushe and later Shizhong. When Jiangling fell, he survived due to illness and died at sixty-three. His son Zhang Jiao married Princess Anyang. Yao Cha commented that during the Taiqing period, Zhang Zan's personal grudges led to discord among kings, contributing to the Liang Dynasty's chaos.

