Chunk 0: 
original: 
鲁仲连者，齐人也。
好奇伟俶傥之画策，而不肯仕宦任职，好持高节。
游於赵。
赵孝成王时，而秦王使白起破赵长平之军前後四十馀万，秦兵遂东围邯郸。
赵王恐，诸侯之救兵莫敢击秦军。
魏安釐王使将军晋鄙救赵，畏秦，止於荡阴不进。
魏王使客将军新垣衍间入邯郸，因平原君谓赵王曰： 秦所为急围赵者，前与齐湣王争彊为帝，已而复归帝；今齐已益弱，方今唯秦雄天下，此非必贪邯郸，其意欲复求为帝。
赵诚发使尊秦昭王为帝，秦必喜，罢兵去。
平原君犹预未有所决。
此时鲁仲连適游赵，会秦围赵，闻魏将欲令赵尊秦为帝，乃见平原君曰： 事将柰何？
平原君曰： 胜也何敢言事！
前亡四十万之众於外，今又内围邯郸而不能去。
魏王使客将军新垣衍令赵帝秦，今其人在是。
胜也何敢言事！
鲁仲连曰： 吾始以君为天下之贤公子也，吾乃今然後知君非天下之贤公子也。
梁客新垣衍安在？
吾请为君责而归之。
平原君曰： 胜请为绍介而见之於先生。
平原君遂见新垣衍曰： 东国有鲁仲连先生者，今其人在此，胜请为绍介，交之於将军。
新垣衍曰： 吾闻鲁仲连先生，齐国之高士也。
衍人臣也，使事有职，吾不原见鲁仲连先生。
平原君曰： 胜既已泄之矣。
新垣衍许诺。
鲁连见新垣衍而无言。
新垣衍曰： 吾视居此围城之中者，皆有求於平原君者也；今吾观先生之玉貌，非有求於平原君者也，曷为久居此围城之中而不去？
鲁仲连曰： 世以鲍焦为无从颂而死者，皆非也。
众人不知，则为一身。
彼秦者，弃礼义而上首功之国也，权使其士，虏使其民。
translation: 
Lu Zhonglian was a native of Qi.
He is good at analyzing unique, grand and extraordinary strategies, but he is unwilling to serve as an official and is willing to maintain high integrity.
He once visited Zhao State.
When Zhao Xiaocheng was king, King Zhao of Qin sent Bai Qi to lead an army to defeat Zhao Changping's army, killing more than 400,000 people in total. As a result, Qin's army advanced eastward and besieged Handan, the capital of Zhao.
King Zhao was very afraid, and no one from the reinforcements from the vassal states dared to attack the Qin army.
King Anli of Wei sent General Jin Bi to lead troops to rescue Zhao. However, he was afraid of the Qin army and stationed in Tangyin and did not dare to advance.
The king of Wei sent his guest general Xinyuan Yan into Handan through a hidden path, and met with the king of Zhao through Pingyuan Jun. He said: The reason why the Qin army is eager to besiege Zhao is because it used to compete with King Qi Min to become emperor, and soon King Qi Min revoked the title of emperor.
If Zhao can send envoys to honor King Qin Zhao as emperor, King Qin will be very happy and will withdraw his troops.
Mr. Pingyuan was hesitant and unable to make a decision.
At this time, Lu Zhonglian traveled to the State of Zhao and caught up with the Qin army to besiege Handan. He heard that the State of Wei wanted Zhao to honor King Qin Zhao and proclaim himself emperor, so he went to Jin to see Lord Pingyuan and said: "What are we going to do about this?"
Mr. Pingyuan said: How dare we talk about such a big event in our country!
Not long ago, 400,000 troops were lost abroad, and now they are surrounded by the Qin army in Handan, and they cannot make them retreat.
The King of Wei sent the guest general Xinyuan Yan to ask the State of Zhao to honor King Qin Zhao as emperor. This man is still here.
How dare I talk about such a big thing!
Lu Zhonglian said: I used to think that you were the most virtuous son in the world, but today I know that you are not the most virtuous son in the world.
Where is Wei Guo's guest Xinyuan Yan?
I will blame him for you and send him back.
Mr. Pingyuan said: I would like to introduce you to Mr. Pingyuan.
So Mr. Pingyuan met Xinyuan Yan and said: "There is a Mr. Lu Zhonglian in Qi State. He is here now. Please let me introduce him to you so that he can get to know the general and make friends."
Xinyuan Yan said: I heard that Mr. Lu Zhonglian is a noble person in Qi State.
I am a minister of the King of Wei, and I have been ordered to be an envoy and bear my responsibilities. I do not want to see Mr. Lu Zhonglian.
Mr. Pingyuan said: I have revealed the news that you are here.
Niiguan Yan had no choice but to agree.
Lu Zhonglian saw Xinyuan Yan but said nothing.
Xinyuan Yan said: I think those who stay in this besieged city are all people who seek help from Lord Pingyuan. But now, I don’t think Mr.’s appearance looks like someone who wants help from Lord Pingyuan. Why do you stay in this besieged city for a long time and not leave?
Lu Zhonglian said: The world thinks that Bao Jiao committed suicide because of his narrow-mindedness. This view is completely wrong.
Most people don't understand his shame in living in a troubled world, and think he just has personal agenda.
The Qin State was a country that abandoned etiquette and only valued military merit. It treated its soldiers with power and deceit and enslaved its people like slaves.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
彼即肆然而为帝，过而为政於天下，则连有蹈东海而死耳，吾不忍为之民也。所为见将军者，欲以助赵也。
新垣衍曰： 先生助之将柰何？
鲁连曰： 吾将使梁及燕助之，齐、楚则固助之矣。
新垣衍曰： 燕则吾请以从矣；若乃梁者，则吾乃梁人也，先生恶能使梁助之？
鲁连曰： 梁未睹秦称帝之害故耳。使梁睹秦称帝之害，则必助赵矣。
新垣衍曰： 秦称帝之害何如？
鲁连曰： 昔者齐威王尝为仁义矣，率天下诸侯而朝周。
周贫且微，诸侯莫朝，而齐独朝之。
居岁馀，周烈王崩，齐後往，周怒，赴於齐曰： 天崩地坼，天子下席。东籓之臣因齐後至，则斮。
齐威王勃然怒曰： 叱嗟，而母婢也！
卒为天下笑。
故生则朝周，死则叱之，诚不忍其求也。
彼天子固然，其无足怪。
新垣衍曰： 先生独不见夫仆乎？
十人而从一人者，宁力不胜而智不若邪？
畏之也。 鲁仲连曰： 呜呼！
梁之比於秦若仆邪？ 新垣衍曰： 然。
鲁仲连曰： 吾将使秦王烹醢梁王。
新垣衍怏然不悦，曰： 噫嘻，亦太甚矣先生之言也！
先生又恶能使秦王烹醢梁王？
鲁仲鲁曰： 固也，吾将言之。
昔者九侯、鄂侯、文王，纣之三公也。
九侯有子而好，献之於纣，纣以为恶，醢九侯。
鄂侯争之彊，辩之疾，故脯鄂侯。
文王闻之，喟然而叹，故拘之牖里之库百日，欲令之死。
曷为与人俱称王，卒就脯醢之地？
齐湣王之鲁，夷维子为执策而从，谓鲁人曰： 子将何以待吾君？
鲁人曰： 吾将以十太牢待子之君。
夷维子曰： 子安取礼而来吾君？彼吾君者，天子也。
天子巡狩，诸侯辟舍，纳筦籥，摄衽抱机，视膳於堂下，天子已食，乃退而听朝也。
鲁人投其籥，不果纳。
不得入於鲁，将之薛，假途於邹。
当是时，邹君死，湣王欲入吊，夷维子谓邹之孤曰： 天子吊，主人必将倍殡棺，设北面於南方，然后天子南面吊也。
translation: 
If it were allowed to proclaim itself emperor without restraint and rule the world, I would rather jump into the East China Sea and die than be its obedient citizen. The reason why I came to see the general was to help Zhao.
Niiguan Yan said: How do you plan to help Zhao Guo, sir?
Lu Zhonglian said: I will ask Wei and Yan to help it. Qi and Chu have already helped Zhao.
Xinyuan Yan said: Yan State, I believe I will listen to you; as for Wei State, I am from Wei State. How can I ask Wei State to help Zhao State?
Lu Zhonglian said: Wei did not see clearly the dangers of Qin's proclaiming emperor. If Wei could see the dangers of Qin's proclaiming emperor, he would definitely help Zhao.
Xinyuan Yan said: What disaster will happen if Qin becomes emperor?
Lu Zhonglian said: In the past, King Wei of Qi once pursued benevolence and righteousness and led the princes of the world to pay homage to the Emperor of Zhou.
At that time, the Emperor Zhou was poor and weak, and no princes were willing to go to worship him. Only the state of Qi went to worship him.
More than a year later, King Zhou Lie died, and King Qi was late for the funeral. The newly succeeded King Zhou Xian was very angry and sent people to Qi State to report the funeral and said: The death of the emperor is as big as the earth falling apart. The newly succeeded emperor also has to leave the palace to mourn and sleep on a straw mat. Tian Yingqi, a minister of the eastern vassal country, dares to be late and should be executed.
After hearing this, King Qi Wei became furious and cursed: Bah! Your mother is nothing but a maid!
King Qi Wei was finally ridiculed by everyone in the world.
The reason why King Qi Wei went to see Emperor Zhou when he was alive and cursed him loudly when he was dead was because he couldn't stand Emperor Zhou's harsh demands.
Those who are emperors are like this, so there is nothing to be surprised about.
Niiguan Yan said: Sir, haven't you seen the slave?
If ten slaves serve one master, are they unable to match their master's strength or intelligence?
It's because I'm afraid of him. Lu Zhonglian said: Alas!
Comparing the King of Wei and the King of Qin, are they like servants and masters? Niiguan Yan said: Yes.
Lu Zhonglian said: Then, I will let the King of Qin cook the King of Wei and chop him into meat sauce?
Araguan Yan was very unhappy and said unconvinced: Oops! What you said, sir, is too much!
How could you let the King of Qin cook the King of Wei and chop him into meat sauce?
Lu Zhonglian said: Of course, I can tell you.
In the past, Jiuhou, Ehou, and Wenwang were the three princes of Yin Zhou.
Jiuhou had a beautiful daughter, so he dedicated her to Yin Zhou. However, King Zhou thought she was not beautiful, so he chopped her into pieces.
The Marquis of E was forthright in his remonstrances, argued fiercely, and killed the Marquis of E to make dried meat.
When King Wen heard this, he just sighed deeply, so King Zhou imprisoned him in Youli Prison for a hundred days, hoping to kill him.
Why do you become king like others, only to end up being chopped into meat paste and made into jerky?
When King Min of Qi went to the State of Lu, Yiweizi drove his chariot and served as his entourage. He said to the officials of Lu State: How are you going to receive our king?
The officials of the State of Lu said: We intend to receive your king with the etiquette of ten Tailao.
Yiweizi said: Where do you follow the etiquette to receive our king? My king is the emperor.
When the emperor goes to inspect various countries, the princes should move out of the main palace and move to other places. They should hand over the keys, lift up their clothes, arrange a few tables, and stand in the hall to serve the emperor's meal. After the emperor has finished eating, he can return to the court to listen to the governor.
After hearing this, the officials of the State of Lu closed the gate and locked it up, preventing King Qi Min from entering.
King Min of Qi could not enter the state of Lu, so he planned to go to Xuedi via the state of Zou.
At this time, the king of Zou State passed away, and the king wanted to go into the mirror to mourn. Yiweizi said to the heir of Zou State: When the emperor is mourning, the mourner must change the direction of the coffin and place the coffin facing north in the south. Then the emperor faces south to mourn.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
邹之群臣曰： 必若此，吾将伏剑而死。
固不敢入於邹。
邹、鲁之臣，生则不得事养，死则不得赙襚，然且欲行天子之礼於邹、鲁，邹、鲁之臣不果纳。
今秦万乘之国也，梁亦万乘之国也。
俱据万乘之国，各有称王之名，睹其一战而胜，欲从而帝之，是使三晋之大臣不如邹、鲁之仆妾也。
且秦无已而帝，则且变易诸侯之大臣。
彼将夺其所不肖而与其所贤，夺其所憎而与其所爱。
彼又将使其子女谗妾为诸侯妃姬。处梁之宫。梁王安得晏然而已乎？
而将军又何以得故宠乎？
於是新垣衍起，再拜谢曰： 始以先生为庸人，吾乃今日知先生为天下之士也。
吾请出，不敢复言帝秦。
秦将闻之，为卻军五十里。
適会魏公子无忌夺晋鄙军以救赵，击秦军，秦军遂引而去。
於是平原君欲封鲁连，鲁连辞让者三，终不肯受。
平原君乃置酒，酒酣起前，以千金为鲁连寿。
鲁连笑曰： 所贵於天下之士者，为人排患释难解纷乱而无取也。
即有取者，是商贾之事也，而连不忍为也。
遂辞平原君而去，终身不复见。
其後二十馀年，燕将攻下聊城，聊城人或谗之燕，燕将惧诛，因保守聊城，不敢归。
齐田单攻聊城岁馀，士卒多死而聊城不下。
鲁连乃为书，约之矢以射城中，遗燕将。
书曰：
吾闻之，智者不倍时而弃利，勇士不却死而灭名，忠臣不先身而後君。
translation: 
The ministers of Zou State said: This must be the case, we would rather commit suicide with swords.
Therefore the king did not dare to enter the kingdom of Zou.
The ministers of Zou and Lu were unable to serve the king well during his lifetime, and they could not assist in the funeral ceremony after the death of the king. However, they wanted to perform the rites of the emperor in Zou and Lu, and the ministers of Zou and Lu finally refused to allow King Qi Min to enter the mirror.
Today, Qin is a country with ten thousand chariots, and Wei is also a country with ten thousand chariots.
They are all big countries with ten thousand chariots, and each has his own title of king. If it only wins a battle, he will obediently support it and call it emperor. This makes the ministers of the Three Jin Dynasties inferior to the servants and concubines of Zou and Lu.
If the Qin State is greedy enough and finally proclaims itself emperor, then the ministers of the princes will be replaced.
He will depose those he deems unworthy and replace them with those he deems worthy; he will depose those he deems unworthy and replace them with those he loves.
How could the King of Wei live a peaceful life when his children and troublemaking concubines were also allowed to be married to princes as concubines and live in the palace of Wei?
And how can you, general, gain your original favor?
At this time, Xinyuan Yan stood up, bowed to Lu Zhong twice and apologized, saying: "At first I thought you were an ordinary person, but today I know that you are a wise man in the world."
I will leave Zhao State and no longer dare to talk about King Qin proclaiming himself emperor.
When the Qin army general heard the news, he withdrew his army fifty miles.
It happened that Wei Gongzi Wuji seized the military power of Jin Bi and led the army to rescue Zhao and attack the Qin army, so the Qin army withdrew from Handan and returned.
Lord Pingyuan wanted to reward Lu Zhonglian, but Lu Zhonglian repeatedly refused and refused to accept.
Lord Pingyuan held a banquet in honor of him. When his ears were full of wine, Lord Pingyuan stood up and offered a thousand pieces of gold as a reward to Lu Zhonglian.
Lu Zhonglian said with a smile: The reason why outstanding people are respected by people in the world is because they can eliminate troubles, eliminate disasters, and resolve disputes without asking for compensation.
If you ask for remuneration, it will become a businessman's behavior. I, Lu Zhonglian, cannot bear to do that.
So I bid farewell to Lord Pingyuan and left, never to see each other again for the rest of our lives.
More than twenty years after this incident, a Yan general captured Qi State's Liaocheng. Someone in Liaocheng spoke ill of General Yan in front of King Yan. General Yan was afraid of being executed, so he stayed in Liaocheng and did not dare to go back.
Qi Guotian attacked Liaocheng alone for more than a year. Many soldiers died, but he could not capture Liaocheng.
Lu Zhonglian wrote a letter, tied it to an arrow and shot it into the city to General Yan.
The letter read:
I heard that a wise person will not go against the current situation and give up a favorable opportunity, a brave person will not avoid death and ruin his reputation, and a loyal minister will not take care of himself first and then the king.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今公行一朝之忿，不顾燕王之无臣，非忠也；杀身亡聊城，而威不信於齐，非勇也；功败名灭，後世无称焉，非智也。
三者世主不臣，说士不载，故智者不再计，勇士不怯死。
今死生荣辱，贵贱尊卑，此时不再至，原公详计而无与俗同。
且楚攻齐之南阳，魏攻平陆，而齐无南面之心，以为亡南阳之害小，不如得济北之利大，故定计审处之。
今秦人下兵，魏不敢东面；衡秦之势成，楚国之形危；齐弃南阳，断右壤，定济北，计犹且为之也。
且夫齐之必决於聊城，公勿再计。今楚魏交退於齐，而燕救不至。
以全齐之兵，无天下之规，与聊城共据期年之敝，则臣见公之不能得也。
且燕国大乱，君臣失计，上下迷惑，栗腹以十万之众五折於外，以万乘之国被围於赵，壤削主困，为天下僇笑。
国敝而祸多，民无所归心。
今公又以敝聊之民距全齐之兵，是墨翟之守也。
食人炊骨，士无反外之心，是孙膑之兵也。
能见於天下。
虽然，为公计者，不如全车甲以报於燕。
车甲全而归燕，燕王必喜；身全而归於国，士民如见父母，交游攘臂而议於世，功业可明。
上辅孤主以制群臣，下养百姓以资说士，矫国更俗，功名可立也。
亡意亦捐燕弃世，东游於齐乎？裂地定封，富比乎陶、卫，世世称孤，与齐久存，又一计也。
此两计者，显名厚实也，原公详计而审处一焉。
translation: 
Now you are venting your temporary anger and not taking into account that the King of Yan cannot control his ministers, which is disloyal; you die in battle, lose Liaocheng, and your reputation cannot be extended in Qi, which is not brave; your achievements fail, your reputation is ruined, and future generations will have nothing to say, it is unwise.
These three types of people will not be used as ministers by the current monarchs, and will not be recorded by lobbyists. Therefore, smart people will not be hesitant, and warriors will not be greedy for life and afraid of death.
Now is the key to life and death, honor and disgrace, dignity and inferiority. You cannot make a decision at this time, and the opportunity will never come again. I hope you will make detailed plans and not be like ordinary people.
Moreover, Chu State attacked Qi State's Nanyang, and Wei State attacked Qi State's Pinglu. However, Qi State had no intention of counterattacking south. It believed that the loss of losing Nanyang was small and outweighed the benefits of capturing Jibei, so it made such a decision to implement it.
Now that the Qin State has sent troops, the Wei State does not dare to march eastward; the situation of the Qin State's continuous alliance has formed, and the Chu State's situation is dangerous; Qi State abandons Nanyang, cedes the territory on the right without saving it, and pacifies Jibei, which is a decision made after weighing the pros and cons.
Besides, Qi State is determined to recapture Liaocheng, so you should not hesitate any longer. Now the armies of Chu and Wei have withdrawn from Qi State and Yan State’s reinforcements have not arrived.
All the troops of Qi State have no other aspirations for the world and are attacking Liaocheng with all their strength. If you still want to defend Liaocheng, which has been besieged for more than a year, I don't think you can do it.
Moreover, the Yan State was in turmoil, and the emperor and his ministers were helpless and confused. Li Fu led an army of 100,000 to fight five consecutive defeats abroad. However, the great country with 10,000 chariots was surrounded by the State of Zhao. The land was reduced, the king was trapped, and he was ridiculed by the people of the world.
The country is in decline, disasters abound, and the people's hearts are in disarray.
Now, you use the exhausted soldiers and civilians of Liaocheng to resist the attack of the entire Qi army, which is like Mo Zhai defending Songcheng.
When food and grass were exhausted, they ate human flesh to satisfy their hunger. They had no firewood and burned human bones, but the soldiers did not have the heart to rebel. This is like Sun Bin who is good at leading troops.
Your ability has been revealed to the world.
Even so, for your sake, it is better to preserve our troops and use them to thank the State of Yan.
The king of Yan will be happy if his troops return to the country of Yan in good condition; if his body returns to his country, the people will feel like they are seeing their parents again, friends will praise and praise him excitedly when they get together, and his achievements will be displayed.
On the one hand, it assists the monarch in commanding the ministers; on the other hand, it not only supports the people but also provides lobbyists, corrects state affairs, changes customs, and builds career and reputation.
If you do not have the intention to return to the Yan State, abandon the Yan State, abandon worldly opinions, and go east to the Qi State. The Qi State will divide the land and enfeoff it, so that you can be as rich and powerful as Wei Ran and Shang Yang.
These two options are good ideas to show off your reputation and are rich and affordable. I hope you will choose one of them carefully after careful consideration.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
且吾闻之，规小节者不能成荣名，恶小耻者不能立大功。
昔者管夷吾射桓公中其钩，篡也；遗公子纠不能死，怯也；束缚桎梏，辱也。
若此三行者，世主不臣而乡里不通。
乡使管子幽囚而不出，身死而不反於齐，则亦名不免为辱人贱行矣。
臧获且羞与之同名矣，况世俗乎！
故管子不耻身在縲绁之中而耻天下之不治，不耻不死公子纠而耻威之不信於诸侯，故兼三行之过而为五霸首，名高天下而光烛邻国。
曹子为鲁将，三战三北，而亡地五百里。
乡使曹子计不反顾，议不还踵，刎颈而死，则亦名不免为败军禽将矣。
曹子弃三北之耻，而退与鲁君计。
桓公朝天下，会诸侯，曹子以一剑之任，枝桓公之心於坛坫之上，颜色不变，辞气不悖，三战之所亡一朝而复之，天下震动，诸侯惊骇，威加吴、越。
若此二士者，非不能成小廉而行小节也，以为杀身亡躯，绝世灭後，功名不立，非智也。
故去感忿之怨，立终身之名；弃忿悁之节，定累世之功。
是以业与三王争流，而名与天壤相弊也。
原公择一而行之。
燕将见鲁连书，泣三日，犹豫不能自决。
欲归燕，已有隙，恐诛；欲降齐，所杀虏於齐甚众，恐已降而後见辱。
喟然叹曰： 与人刃我，宁自刃。
乃自杀。
聊城乱，田单遂屠聊城。
归而言鲁连，欲爵之。
鲁连逃隐於海上，曰： 吾与富贵而诎於人，宁贫贱而轻世肆志焉。
邹阳者，齐人也。
游於梁，与故吴人庄忌夫子、淮阴枚生之徒交。
translation: 
I heard that those who seek small details cannot achieve a glorious reputation, and those who are ashamed of small things cannot achieve great achievements.
In the past, Guan Zhong shot Duke Huan's belt hook, which was a crime. Giving up Prince Jiu instead of letting him die was cowardly. Being imprisoned with instruments of torture was a shame.
For a person with these three conditions, the king will not use him as a minister and the villagers will not associate with him.
If Guanzi had been imprisoned for a long time and died in prison without being able to return to Qi, he would have had a shameful and despicable reputation.
Even Nu Bei is ashamed to have the same name as him, let alone the public opinion in society!
Therefore, Guan Zhong did not feel ashamed because he was in prison, but he felt ashamed that the world could not be at peace. He did not feel ashamed that he could not die with his son Jiu, but he felt ashamed that he could not show his prestige among the princes. Therefore, although he had the triple fault of committing crimes, fearing death, and being humiliated, he assisted Duke Huan of Qi to become the leader of the five hegemons. His reputation was higher than anyone else in the world, and his glory shone on neighboring countries.
After Cao Mo became a general of Lu, he failed in many battles and lost 500 miles of land.
If Cao Mo had cut his throat and committed suicide without careful consideration and hastily made a plan, he would have been infamous as a defeated general.
Cao Mo ignored the humiliation of being defeated many times and came back to discuss matters with Lord Lu.
Taking advantage of Duke Huan's opportunity to convene the princes of the world, Cao Mo used a dagger to get close to Duke Huan's heart on the altar. His face remained unchanged and his speech was calm. He defeated the lost land many times and regained it in a short time. The world was shaken, the princes were horrified, and the reputation of Lu was higher than that of Wu and Yue.
Like these two patriots, it is not that they disregard the honor and integrity of the whole family and think that if they die, their reputation will be destroyed and their achievements will not be established. This is not a wise approach.
Therefore, give up temporary anger and establish a lifelong reputation; give up temporary anger and establish achievements for generations to come.
Therefore, these deeds and the achievements of the three kings compete to spread, and their reputation coexists with heaven and earth.
I hope you will choose one of these options and take action!
General Yan read Lu Zhonglian's letter and cried for several days, but still hesitated to make a decision.
He wanted to return to the Yan State, but there was already a rift, and he was afraid of being killed; he wanted to surrender to the Qi State, but too many Qi people had been killed and captured, and he was afraid that he would be humiliated after surrendering.
He sighed deeply and said: It is better to commit suicide than to let others kill me.
Just committed suicide.
Liaocheng was in chaos, so Tian Dan marched into Liaocheng and bloodbathed Liaocheng.
When he returned, he reported Lu Zhonglian's affairs to the King of Qi. The King of Qi wanted to knight him.
After hearing this, Lu Zhonglian fled to the seaside and lived in seclusion. He said: Instead of being rich and serving others, it is better for me to be poor and despise the world and let my own ambitions go.
Zou Yang is from Qi State.
When he traveled to Liang State, he interacted with Zhuang Ji, a native of Wu State, and Mei Cheng, a native of Huaiyin.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
上书而介於羊胜、公孙诡之间。
胜等嫉邹阳，恶之梁孝王。
孝王怒，下之吏，将欲杀之。
邹阳客游，以谗见禽，恐死而负累，乃从狱中上书曰：臣闻忠无不报，信不见疑，臣常以为然，徒虚语耳。
昔者荆轲慕燕丹之义，白虹贯日，太子畏之；卫先生为秦画长平之事，太白蚀昴，而昭王疑之。
夫精变天地而信不喻两主，岂不哀哉！
今臣尽忠竭诚，毕议原知，左右不明，卒从吏讯，为世所疑，是使荆轲、卫先生复起，而燕、秦不悟也。
原大王孰察之。
昔卞和献宝，楚王刖之；李斯竭忠，胡亥极刑。
是以箕子详狂，接舆辟世，恐遭此患也。
原大王孰察卞和、李斯之意，而後楚王、胡亥之听，无使臣为箕子、接舆所笑。
臣闻比干剖心，子胥鸱夷，臣始不信，乃今知之。
原大王孰察，少加怜焉。
谚曰： 有白头如新，倾盖如故。
何则？
知与不知也。
故昔樊於期逃秦之燕，藉荆轲首以奉丹之事；王奢去齐之魏，临城自刭以卻齐而存魏。
夫王奢、樊於期非新於齐、秦而故於燕、魏也，所以去二国死两君者，行合於志而慕义无穷也。
是以苏秦不信於天下，而为燕尾生；白圭战亡六城，为魏取中山。
何则？
诚有以相知也。
苏秦相燕，燕人恶之於王，王按剑而怒，食以夬騠；白圭显於中山，中山人恶之魏文侯，文侯投之以夜光之璧。
translation: 
He wrote a letter of self-recommendation and was a disciple of King Liang Xiao among Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui.
Yang Sheng and others were jealous of Zou Yang and spoke ill of him in front of King Xiao of Liang.
King Xiao of Liang was very angry. He handed Zou Yang over to his subordinate officials and wanted to kill him.
Zou Yang traveled in the Liang Kingdom and was arrested for being slandered. Worried about being accused of unwarranted charges after his death, he wrote a letter to King Xiao of Liang from prison. He wrote: I heard that loyal people will be rewarded and honest people will not be suspected. I always thought it was right in the past, but today it seems to be just an empty talk.
In the past, Gao Yi, whom Jing Ke admired from Prince Dan of Yan, went to assassinate the King of Qin. Although there was a sign of a white rainbow penetrating the sun in the sky, Prince Dan of Yan was still worried that Jing Ke would regret it and did not dare to go; Mr. Wei planned the Changping event for the King of Qin, and there was also a sign that Venus would cover the Pleiades, but King Zhao of Qin was still full of doubts.
Their sincerity moved the world and showed signs, but they were not understood by the two masters Yan Dan and Zhao Wang. Isn't this sad!
Now I am trying my best to be loyal and give my best advice, hoping that your Majesty will adopt it. The people around you did not understand the situation and finally handed me over to the officials for interrogation. I was misunderstood by the world. Even if Jing Ke and Wei were resurrected, King Yan Dan and Qin Zhao would not wake up.
I hope your Majesty will examine this situation carefully.
In the past, Bian He offered jade, and the king of Chu chopped off his feet; Li Si tried his best to be loyal, but Hu Hai had him executed.
So Jizi pretended to be crazy and took his father into seclusion to hide from the world. They were all afraid of suffering such a disaster.
I hope your Majesty will carefully examine the sincerity of Bian He and Li Si, and don't believe in slander like King Chu and Hu Hai, and don't let me be ridiculed by Ji Zi and Jie Yu.
I heard that Bigan was disemboweled and Wu Zixu's body was put into a leather bag and thrown into the river. I didn't believe it at first, but now I know that such a thing happened.
I hope your Majesty will examine it carefully and show me a little mercy!
As the saying goes: Some people are strangers even after getting along with them for a long time, while some people feel like old friends as soon as they stop and talk.
What is this wish for?
It lies in knowing one's heart and not knowing one's heart.
Therefore, in the past, Fan Yuqi fled from Qin to Yan, and lent his head to Jing Ke to carry out Yan Dan's mission of assassinating the King of Qin; Wang She left Qi for Wei, and committed suicide on the city wall to retreat the Qi army and protect Wei.
Wang She and Fan Yuqi were not new friends with Qi and Qin, but old acquaintances with Yan and Wei. The reason why they left Qi and Qin to die for the two kings of Yan and Wei was because their actions and aspirations were consistent and they had infinite admiration for justice!
Therefore, Su Qin was not trusted by the people of the world, but he was as trustworthy to the Yan State as his first son; Bai Gui was defeated and lost the cities of the Six Kingdoms, but he captured Zhongshan for the Wei State.
Why is this?
It's really because of mutual acquaintance.
Su Qin was appointed as the Prime Minister of the Yan State. Someone from the State of Yan slandered him in front of the king. The King of Yan was angry with his sword and slaughtered his beloved horse and gave him the meat to eat.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
何则？
两主二臣，剖心坼肝相信，岂移於浮辞哉！
故女无美恶，入宫见妒；士无贤不肖，入朝见嫉。
昔者司马喜髌脚於宋，卒相中山；范睢摺胁折齿於魏，卒为应侯。
此二人者，皆信必然之画，捐朋党之私，挟孤独之位，故不能自免於嫉妒之人也。
是以申徒狄自沈於河，徐衍负石入海。不容於世，义不苟取，比周於朝，以移主上之心。
故百里奚乞食於路，缪公委之以政；甯戚饭牛车下，而桓公任之以国。
此二人者，岂借宦於朝，假誉於左右，然後二主用之哉？
感於心，合於行，亲於胶漆，昆弟不能离，岂惑於众口哉？
故偏听生奸，独任成乱。
昔者鲁听季孙之说而逐孔子，宋信子罕之计而囚墨翟。
夫以孔、墨之辩，不能自免於谗谀，而二国以危。
何则？
众口铄金，积毁销骨也。
是以秦用戎人由余而霸中国，齐用越人蒙而彊威、宣。
此二国，岂拘於俗，牵於世，系阿偏之辞哉？
公听并观，垂名当世。
故意合则胡越为昆弟，由余、越人蒙是矣；不合，则骨肉出逐不收，硃、象、管、蔡是矣。
今人主诚能用齐、秦之义，後宋、鲁之听，则五伯不足称，三王易为也。
是以圣王觉寤，捐子之之心，而能不说於田常之贤；封比干之後，修孕妇之墓，故功业复就於天下。
何则？
欲善无厌也。
夫晋文公亲其雠，彊霸诸侯；齐桓公用其仇，而一匡天下。
何则，慈仁殷勤，诚加於心，不可以虚辞借也。
至夫秦用商鞅之法，东弱韩、魏，兵彊天下，而卒车裂之；越用大夫种之谋，禽劲吴，霸中国，而卒诛其身。
是以孙叔敖三去相而不悔，於陵子仲辞三公为人灌园。
translation: 
Why is this?
The two masters and two ministers were so heart-to-heart and believed so deeply, how could they be swayed by rumors?
Therefore, regardless of whether a woman is beautiful or ugly, she will be jealous when she enters the court; whether a scholar is virtuous or unworthy, he will be jealous when he enters the court and becomes an official.
In the past, Sima happy was punished by having his kneecaps cut off in the Song Dynasty and finally became the prime minister of the Zhongshan Kingdom. Fan Sui had his ribs broken and teeth knocked out in the Wei Kingdom, and was finally made a Marquis of Ying by the Qin Kingdom.
Both of these people abide by certain rules and abstain from forming parties for personal gain. They are in a lonely position, so they are not immune to the persecution of jealous villains.
The reason why Shentu Di threw himself into the river and Xu Yan threw himself into the sea with stones in his arms was because they were not tolerated by the world, adhered to justice and were unscrupulous, and did not form cliques in the court for selfish purposes to shake the monarch's will.
So Baili Xi was begging on the road, and Duke Mu of Qin entrusted him with the affairs of state; Ning Qi was feeding cattle under the cart, and Duke Huan of Qi entrusted him with the administration of state affairs.
Could it be that these two people relied on the recommendation of officials and the praise of their cronies in the court to win the trust of Duke Mu and Duke Huan?
Inspiration is in the heart, unity is in action, intimacy is like glue, and inseparable like brothers. How can we still be deceived by so many slanders?
Therefore, only listening to one side of the story will lead to evil, and only using a few people will lead to disaster.
In the past, Lord Lu only believed in Ji Sun's words and drove away Confucius; Lord Song only believed in Zihan's strategy and imprisoned Mo Zhai.
The eloquence of Confucius and Mozi was not immune to the harm of slander, so the two countries of Lu and Song were in crisis.
Why is this?
If everyone agrees, even gold and stone will melt; if there is too much slander, even the relationship between flesh and blood will be destroyed.
Therefore, Duke Mu of Qin appointed Yu Yu, a Rong man, to dominate China; Qi State appointed Yue Meng, and made the two generations of King Wei and King Xuan strong.
Are the two countries of Qin and Qi stuck to popular customs, implicated in the world's customs, and bound by flattery and paranoid slander?
They listen to opinions fairly, observe things comprehensively, and maintain a good reputation in the world.
Therefore, if one's mind is in harmony, even if a foreigner is from Yue, one can be as close as a brother, as is the case with Yu Yu and Yue Meng; if one's mind is not in harmony, even the flesh and blood of the closest relatives will be driven away without leaving behind, as is the case with Zhu, Xiang, Guan, and Cai.
Today, if the monarch can adopt the methods of Qi and Qin and abandon the mistakes of Song and Lu, then the achievements of the five hegemons are not worthy of praise, and the achievements of the three kings are easy to achieve.
Therefore, if a wise monarch has a clear mind, abandons the hypocritical heart of Zi Zhi, and does not appreciate Tian Chang's false wisdom; if he imitates the descendants of King Wu of Zhou and appoints the loyal minister Bigan, and renovates the tombs of innocent pregnant women, then he will surely succeed in governing the world.
Why is this?
There is no satisfaction in following the good.
If Duke Wen of Jin gets close to his enemies, he can dominate the feudal lords; if Duke Huan of Qi appoints his former enemies, he can bring the world into order.
Why is this? Being kind-hearted, sincere to others, and influencing people's hearts with sincerity cannot be replaced by vain words.
When the Qin State appointed Shang Yang to carry out reforms, he weakened Han and Wei in the east, and his army became powerful in the world, but he was finally killed by his chariot. The Yue State adopted the strategy of Dafu Zhong, attacked and destroyed the powerful Wu State, and dominated China, but was finally killed.
Therefore, Sun Shuao left the position three times without regret; Yu Lingzhong resigned from the position of Sangong to water gardens for others.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
今人主诚能去骄泬之心，怀可报之意，披心腹，见情素，堕肝胆，施德厚，终与之穷达，无爱於士，则桀之狗可使吠尧，而蹠之客可使刺由；况因万乘之权，假圣王之资乎？
然则荆轲之湛七族，要离之烧妻子，岂足道哉！
臣闻明月之珠，夜光之璧，以闇投人於道路，人无不按剑相眄者。
何则？
无因而至前也。
蟠木根柢，轮囷离诡，而为万乘器者。
何则？
以左右先为之容也。
故无因至前，虽出随侯之珠，夜光之璧，犹结怨而不见德。
故有人先谈，则以枯木朽株树功而不忘。
今夫天下布衣穷居之士，身在贫贱，虽蒙尧、舜之术，挟伊、管之辩，怀龙逢、比干之意，欲尽忠当世之君，而素无根柢之容，虽竭精思，欲开忠信，辅人主之治，则人主必有按剑相眄之迹，是使布衣不得为枯木朽株之资也。
是以圣王制世御俗，独化於陶钧之上，而不牵於卑乱之语，不夺於众多之口。
故秦皇帝任中庶子蒙嘉之言，以信荆轲之说，而匕首窃发；周文王猎泾、渭，载吕尚而归，以王天下。
故秦信左右而杀，周用乌集而王。
何则？
以其能越挛拘之语，驰域外之议，独观於昭旷之道也。
今人主沈於谄谀之辞，牵於帷裳之制，使不羁之士与牛骥同皁，此鲍焦所以忿於世而不留富贵之乐也。
臣闻盛饰入朝者不以利汙义，砥厉名号者不以欲伤行，故县名胜母而曾子不入，邑号朝歌而墨子回车。
今欲使天下寥廓之士，摄於威重之权，主於位势之贵，故回面汙行以事谄谀之人而求亲近於左右，则士伏死堀穴岩之中耳，安肯有尽忠信而趋阙下者哉！
translation: 
Now if the king can really get rid of his arrogance, have the intention of letting others serve, reveal his confidants, show his true feelings, show courage and kindness, always share the joys and sorrows with others, and love the nobles, then even the arrogant dog can let him bite Yao, and Zhi's retainer can let him assassinate Xu You; not to mention you rely on the power of a great country and the talents of a holy king?
If this is the case, then Jing Ke is willing to risk the catastrophe of annihilating the seven clans and burning his wife and children to death. Is there anything worthy of praise?
I heard that although luminous pearls and luminous jade are treasures, if you throw them at pedestrians on the road in the dark, people will squint with their swords in surprise.
Why?
It's because the treasure was thrown in front of you for no reason.
The twisted tree roots are unique, but they can become objects of appreciation by the king.
And why?
It's because the people around the king have carved and beautified it in advance!
Therefore, treasures are thrown in front of you for no reason, even if they are a waiting pearl or a luminous jade, you still have to make a grudge and not please.
Therefore, if someone recommends it in advance, even a dead tree will make a contribution and will not be forgotten.
Nowadays, the common people and the scholars living in the back alleys are in a poor and humble environment. Even if they have the way of governing the country like Yao and Shun, have the eloquence of Yi Yin and Guan Zhong, and have the ambition of Long Feng and Bigan, they intend to be loyal to the king of the day, but there is usually no one. With good words of recommendation, even if you try your best to dedicate your loyalty to assist the monarch in governing the country, then the monarch will definitely look at you sideways like a person throwing treasures. This is why the wise men in common cannot obtain the value of a dead tree!
Therefore, a sage monarch governs the country like a potter's fortune, with his own laws and regulations to educate the world, and will not be swayed by despicable opinions or changed by everyone's tongue.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang listened to the words of his concubine Meng Jia and believed Jing Ke's lies. Jing Ke was able to take out the dagger secretly and assassinate people unprepared. King Wen of Zhou was hunting in the Jing and Wei areas and carried him back to Lu Shang in a chariot, so that he could become the king of the world.
Therefore, King Qin listened to his ministers and was almost killed; King Wen of Zhou unexpectedly became king of the world.
Why is this?
Because King Wen of Zhou could transcend the restraints of the left and right, get rid of the restrained discussions of the world, and independently see the broad and bright road.
Nowadays, the king is indulged in flattery and flattery, surrounded by concubines and attendants, causing outstanding scholars to be mixed up with horses and old oxen. This is the reason why Bao Jiao is resentful of the world and has no nostalgia for wealth.
I heard that those who go to court solemnly and strictly will not be greedy for profit and moral integrity; those who pursue fame will not indulge their selfish desires and corrupt their character. Therefore, the county is called Shengmu, but Zengzi will not enter; the city is called Chaoge, and Mozi returns to his carriage and leaves.
Nowadays, if people with lofty ideals are frightened by the mighty power, suppressed by the high position, and deliberately use evil faces and dirty conduct to serve the flattering villains in order to get close to the king, then the ambitious people will die in the caves of old age. How can they be willing to follow the king with all their loyalty and faith?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
书奏梁孝王，孝王使人出之，卒为上客。
太史公曰：鲁连其指意虽不合大义，然余多其在布衣之位，荡然肆志，不诎於诸侯，谈说於当世，折卿相之权。
邹阳辞虽不逊，然其比物连类，有足悲者，亦可谓抗直不桡矣，吾是以附之列传焉。
translation: 
This letter was presented to King Xiao of Liang, who sent someone to release Zou Yang from prison, and finally became King Xiao of Liang's honored guest.
Tai Shigong said: Even if the main purpose of Lu Zhonglian's discussion is not righteous, I applaud him for being a common man, free and easy, not yielding to the princes, commenting on the current world, but he has convinced the powerful ministers and prime ministers.
Even though Zou Yang's words are not modest enough, his comparisons between similar things are indeed touching. He can also be said to be frank, honest and unyielding, so I attach him to this biography.


