Chunk 0: 
original: 
后妃上宣穆张皇后景怀夏侯皇后景献羊皇后
文明王皇后武元杨皇后武悼杨皇后
左贵嫔胡贵嫔诸葛夫人
惠贾皇后惠羊皇后谢夫人
怀王皇太后元夏侯太妃
夫乾坤定位，男女流形，伉俪之义同归，贵贱之名异等。
若乃作配皇极，齐体紫宸，象玉床之连后星，喻金波之合羲璧。
爰自夐古，是谓元妃；降及中年，乃称王后。
四人并列，光于帝喾之宫；二妃同降，著彼有虞之典。
夏商以上，六宫之制，其详靡得而闻焉。姬刘以降，五翟之规，其事可略而言矣。
周礼，天子立一后、三夫人、九嫔、二十七世妇、八十一御妻，以听王者内政。
故《婚义》曰： 天子之与后，如日之与月，阴之与阳。
由斯而谈，其所从来远矣。
故能母仪天下，助宣王化，德均载物，比大坤维，宗庙歆其荐羞，穹壤俟其交泰。
是以哲王垂宪，尤重造舟之礼；诗人立言，先奖《葛覃》之训。
translation: 
Empress Xuanmu Zhang Empress Jinghuai Xiahou Empress Jing Xianyang Empress
Queen of Civilization King Wu Yuanyang Queen Wu Yuanyang
Concubine Zuo, Concubine Hu, Concubine Zhuge
Queen Huijia Queen Huiyang Madam Xie
Empress Dowager Huai and Dowager Princess Yuan Xia
Qian and Kun have long been positioned, men and women have changed and taken shape, the morality between husband and wife has a common trend, and the status of high and low has also been divided into different levels.
If it matches the emperor and is equal to the emperor's dignity, it is like the jade bed star connecting the queen star, and the moonlight matching the sun.
From ancient times, she was named Yuan Fei; in the middle ages, she was called Queen.
The four of them were juxtaposed and were prominent in the palace of the emperor's doctor; the two concubines were born at the same time, which is mentioned in Youyu's classics.
Before the Xia and Shang Dynasties, the details of the six-gong system cannot be known. Since the Qin and Mo Dynasties, the content of the Wuzhai regulations can still be roughly described.
According to the etiquette system of the Zhou Dynasty, the emperor established a queen, three wives, nine concubines, twenty-seven wives, and eighty-one royal wives to take charge of the affairs of the emperor's inner palace.
Therefore, "Marriage Meaning" says: The emperor and the queen are like the sun and the moon, yin and yang.
From this point of view, the origin of concubines has been a long time ago.
Therefore, the concubine can become a role model for mothers in the world, helping to promote the emperor's teachings. Virtue carries all things, like the earth. The gods of the ancestral temple enjoy the delicacies offered by them first, and the heaven, earth and sky are waiting for their harmony and harmony.
Therefore, the sage kings formulated etiquette and laws, paying special attention to the etiquette of marriage. The poets wrote books and extolled the rules in "Getan" first.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
后烛流景，所以裁其宴私，房乐希声，是用节其容止。
履端正本，抑斯之谓欤！
若乃娉纳有方，防闲有礼，肃尊仪而修四德，体柔范而弘六义，阴教洽于宫闱，淑誉腾于区域。
则玄云入户，上帝锡母萌之符；黄神降征，坤灵赞寿丘之道，终能鼎祚惟永，胤嗣克昌。
至若俪极亏闲，凭天作孽，倒裳衣于衽席，感朓侧于弦望。则龙漦结衅，宗周鞠为黍苗。燕尾挻灾，隆汉坠其枌搁社矣。
自曹刘内主，位以色登，甄卫之家，荣非德举。
淫荒挺性，蔑西郊之礼容；婉娈含辞，作南国之奇态。
translation: 
The dazzling candlelight in the harem is to control banquets and private gatherings; the sound of entertainment in the room is light to restrain the behavior.
Keep it straight from the beginning, that’s probably what I mean!
When it comes to marriage, there are certain laws and regulations, precautions and taboos, and certain etiquette. Cleaning up good appearance and cultivating the four virtues of virtue, speech, appearance, and merit reflect the etiquette standards in the boudoir and promote the six teachings of gentleness and kindness. The teaching of women's virtues is promoted within the palace, and the reputation of virtue is spread throughout the country.
In this way, the dragon seed will be in your arms, and God will give you a good omen for motherhood; the Yellow God will send down signs, and the Earth God will praise the merits of the birthplace of Shouqiu, which will ultimately make the country's destiny long-lasting and future generations prosperous.
As for those who relied on the emperor and failed to take precautions, committed crimes based on the supremacy, reversed the hierarchy of superiority and inferiority during the banquet, and violated the code of conduct on the sun, the dragon's saliva formed an ominous sign, causing the clans of the Zhou Dynasty to be forced to move and resent the millet seedlings; the tail of the flying swallow caused disaster, and the powerful Han Dynasty lost its political power.
Since the empresses of Cao Wei and Liu Shu ascended to the throne based on their appearance, the honors of Empress Zhen and Empress Wei were not due to their merits.
These people are dissolute, indulgent, arrogant and uninhibited, and despise the etiquette of sacrifices in the western suburbs; they are charming, lingering, tactful and enchanting, and adopt the wonderful posture of a southern woman.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
诐谒由斯外入，秽德于是内宣。
椒掖播晨牝之风，兰殿绝河雎之响。
永言彤史，大练之范逾微；缅视青蒲，脱珥之猷替矣。
晋承其末，与世污隆，宣皇创基，功弘而道屈；穆后一善，绩侔于十乱。
洎乎世祖，始亲选良家，既而帝掩纨扇，躬行请托。
后采长白，实彰妒忌之情；贾纳短青，竟践覆亡之辙。
得失遗迹，焕在绨缃，兴灭所由，义同画一。
故列其本事，以为后妃传云。
宣穆张皇后，讳春华，河内平皋人也。
父汪，魏粟邑令。母河内山氏，司徒涛之从祖姑也。
后少有德行，智识过人，生景帝、文帝、平原王干、南阳公主。
translation: 
From then on, evil behaviors came from outside, and dirty habits began to spread within the palace.
The concubine's palace spread the trend of interfering in the government's affairs, and the Fangjie palace was cut off from poetry and music praising the concubine.
When the secret history recording the life in the palace was praised, the concubine's demeanor became weaker and weaker; when the queen's status was damaged, the rules of women's virtue and virtuous behavior were completely eliminated.
The Jin Dynasty inherited its last days and experienced ups and downs along with the world. Emperor Xuan established a foundation with great merits but lacked benevolence and righteousness. Queen Xuanmu persisted in being virtuous and doing good deeds, and her merits were equivalent to ten ministers.
When Emperor Shizu Wu began to personally select girls from good families, he soon covered his face with a fan to hide his shame, and personally made a beauty pageant request to Queen Yang.
The queen only chose those fair-skinned and tall women, which actually showed her jealousy; Jia Nanfeng was short and black-faced, but after being accepted as the queen, she eventually embarked on the path of destruction and death.
The traces of honors and favors gained and lost are clearly written on the scrolls, and the reasons for rise and fall are uniformly consistent in morality and justice.
Therefore, the historical facts are stated as a biography of the concubines.
Queen Xuanmu Zhang's name was Chunhua, and she was from Pinggao, Hanoi.
His father Zhang Wang was the magistrate of Suyi during the Wei Dynasty; his mother was from Hanoi and had a surname of Shan. She was Situ Shantao's cousin.
The queen was virtuous when she was young, and her wisdom and knowledge were beyond ordinary people. She gave birth to Emperor Jing, Emperor Wen, Prince Sima Qian of Pingyuan and Princess Nanyang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
宣帝初辞魏武之命，托以风痹，尝暴书，遇暴雨，不觉自起收之。
家惟有一婢见之，后乃恐事泄致祸，遂手杀之以灭口，而亲自执爨。
帝由是重之。
其后柏夫人有宠，后罕得进见。
帝尝卧疾，后往省病。
帝曰： 老物可憎，何烦出也！
后惭恚不食，将自杀，诸子亦不食。
帝惊而致谢，后乃止。
帝退而谓人曰： 老物不足惜，虑困我好兒耳！
魏正始八年崩，时年五十九，葬洛阳高原陵，追赠广平县君。
咸熙元年，追号宣穆妃。
及武帝受禅，追尊为皇后。
景怀夏侯皇后，讳徽，字媛容，沛国谯人也。
父尚，魏征南大将军。母曹氏，魏德阳乡主。
后雅有识度，帝每有所为，必豫筹画。
魏明帝世，宣帝居上将之重，诸子并有雄才大略。
后知帝非魏之纯臣，而后既魏氏之甥，帝深忌之。
青龙二年，遂以鸩崩，时年二十四，葬峻平陵。
武帝登阼，初未追崇，弘训太后每以为言，泰始二年始加号谥。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan resigned from Emperor Wu of Wei on the pretext of suffering from rheumatism. Once, when he was drying books to dry, he encountered a heavy rainstorm and couldn't help but collect the books by himself.
There was only one maid in the family who saw this. The queen was worried that the fact of pretending to be sick would be leaked and cause disaster, so she killed the maid to silence her and went to the stove to cook.
Emperor Xuan valued her very much.
From then on, Mrs. Bai was favored, and the queen had a rare opportunity to see Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan was ill and bedridden, and the queen went to visit him.
Emperor Xuan said: You are such a nuisance, old man, why bother you to come out!
Empress Zhang was so ashamed and resentful that she refused to eat and wanted to commit suicide. Several of her children also refused to eat.
Emperor Xuan was frightened and apologized, and the queen stopped her hunger strike.
After the emperor came out, he said to others: The old man is not worthy of pity. What worries me is the suffering of my good sons!
Empress Zhang died in the eighth year of Wei Zhengshi at the age of fifty-nine. She was buried in Luoyang Plateau Mausoleum and was posthumously awarded the title of Queen of Guangping County.
In the first year of Xianxi, she was posthumously named Concubine Xuanmu.
After Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and proclaimed himself emperor, he pursued the title of queen.
The name of Queen Jinghuai Xiahou was named Yuanrong, and she was from Qiao, the state of Pei.
His father, Xia Houshang, was the general of Wei Zhengnan; his mother, Cao, was the head of Wei Deyang Township.
Empress Xiahou was elegant, knowledgeable and thoughtful. Whenever Emperor Jing wanted to do something, she would plan it in advance.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, Emperor Xuan held the important position of general, and all the princes had great talents and strategies.
The queen knew that Emperor Jing was by no means a loyal minister of Wei, but the queen was Wei's niece, and Emperor Jing was very suspicious of her.
In the second year of Qinglong's reign, he drank poison and died. He was only twenty-four years old at the time and was buried in Junping Mausoleum.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he did not pursue her with titles at first. Empress Dowager Hongxun often talked about this matter. It was only in the second year of Taishi that she began to be granted titles and titles.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
后无男，生五女。
景献羊皇后，讳徽瑜，泰山南城人。
父衟，上党太守。后母陈留蔡氏，汉左中郎将邕之女也。
后聪敏有才行。
景怀皇后崩，景帝更娶镇北将军濮阳吴质女，见黜，复纳后，无子。
武帝受禅，居弘训宫，号弘训太后。
泰始九年，追赠蔡氏济阳县君，谥曰穆。
咸宁四年，太后崩，时年六十五，祔葬峻平陵。
文明王皇后，讳元姬，东海郯人也。
父肃，魏中领军、兰陵侯。
后年八岁，诵《诗》《论》，尤善丧服。苟有文义，目所一见，必贯于心。
年九岁，遇母疾，扶侍不舍左右，衣不解带者久之。
每先意候指，动中所适，由是父母令摄家事，每尽其理。
祖郎甚爱异之，曰： 兴吾家者，必此女也，惜不为男矣！
年十二，郎薨。后哀戚哭泣，发于自然，其父益加敬异。
既笄，归于文帝，生武帝及辽东悼王定国、齐献王攸、城阳哀王兆、广汉殇王广德、京兆公主。
后事舅姑尽妇道，谦冲接下，嫔御有序。
及居父丧，身不胜衣，言与泪俱。
translation: 
The queen had no sons and gave birth to five daughters.
Queen Jingxianyang's name was Huiyu, and she was from Nancheng, Mount Tai.
His father, Yangge, was the prefect of Shangzhan; his mother, whose surname was Suyuji, was the daughter of Cai Yong, the general who selected Zuo Zhonglang.
The Sheep Queen is intelligent and virtuous.
After the death of Queen Jinghuai, Emperor Jing married the daughter of Wu Zhi, a Puyang native of General Zhenbei. After Wu's daughter was deposed, he married Queen Yang, who had no sons.
After Emperor Wu accepted Zen, Queen Sheep lived in Hongxun Palace and was named Queen Mother Hongxun.
In the ninth year of Taishi's reign, her mother Cai was posthumously given the title of Lord of Jiyang County, with the title of Mu.
In the fourth year of Xianning, Queen Mother Yang died at the age of sixty-five and was buried with Emperor Jing in Junping Mausoleum.
The queen of Wenming King was named Yuanyou, and she was from Serian Tan.
His father, Wang Sheng, was the leader of Wei Zhong and the Marquis of Lanling.
When the queen was eight years old, she was able to recite the "Book of Songs" and "The Analects of Confucius", and was especially proficient in mourning etiquette. As long as it was meaningful, if she read it once, she would definitely remember it in her heart.
When she was nine years old, she encountered her mother who was ill. She stayed with her to serve her, and she did not take off her clothes for a long time.
Chang has already obeyed her parents' instructions and behaved appropriately without hearing their instructions. Therefore, when her parents asked her to manage the household affairs, she always handled them reasonably.
Grandfather Wang Lang loved her very much and said: It must be this girl who makes our family prosperous, but it is a pity that she is not a man!
When Wang Lang passed away when she was twelve years old, the queen burst into tears with grief and sorrow. From the bottom of her heart, her father cherished and valued her even more.
After reaching adulthood, she married Emperor Wen and gave birth to Emperor Wu and Sima Dingguo, the mourning king of Liaodong, Sima You, the king of Qixian, Sima Zhao, the mourning king of Chengyang, Sima Guangde, the mourning king of Guanghan, and Princess Jingzhao.
The queen served her parents-in-law to the best of her ability, treated her with humility, and kept her concubines in order.
When I was mourning for my father, I was so weak and thin that I couldn't bear to wear clothes, and I shed tears whenever I spoke.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
时钟会以才能见任，后每言于帝曰： 会见利忘义，好为事端，宠过必乱，不可大任。
会后果反。
武帝受禅，尊为皇太后，宫曰崇化。
初置宫卿，重选其职，以太常诸葛绪为卫尉，太仆刘原为太仆，宗正曹楷为少府。
后虽处尊位，不忘素业，躬执纺绩，器服无文，御浣濯之衣，食不参味。
而敦睦九族，垂心万物，言必典礼，浸润不行。
帝以后母羊氏未崇谥号，泰始三年下诏曰： 昔汉文追崇灵文之号，武、宣有平原、博平之封，咸所以奉尊尊之敬，广亲亲之恩也。
故卫将军、兰陵景侯夫人羊氏，含章体顺，仁德醇备，内承世胄，出嫔大国，三从之行，率礼无违。
仍遭不造，频丧统嗣，抚育众胤，克成家道。
translation: 
At that time, Zhong Hui was given a heavy responsibility because of his talent. The queen often said to Emperor Wen: Zhong Hui is unjust and likes to stir up trouble. If he is too favored, he will definitely cause chaos and cannot be entrusted with important tasks.
Zhong Hui later turned out to be a rebel.
After Emperor Wu accepted the offer, he was honored as the Empress Dowager, and the palace he lived in was called Chonghua Palace.
He began to set up palace officials, re-selected their positions, and appointed Taichang Zhuge Xu as Weiwei, Taipu Liu Yuan as Taipu, and Zongzheng Cao Kai as Shaofu.
Although the Empress Dowager was in the supreme position, she did not forget her old business and weaved the fabrics herself. Her utensils and clothing were simple without any elegance, she wore washed clothes, and she never paid attention to the deliciousness of her meals.
Make all clan members and relatives harmonious and harmonious, pay attention to the people of the world, speak in accordance with etiquette, and avoid slander and slander.
Because the empress dowager's mother, Yangshi, was not honored with the title Mi, Emperor Wu said in Xia Shao in the third year of Taishi: In the past, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty granted the title of Lingwen, and Emperor Wu and Emperor Xuan also added the titles of Pingyuan and Bohu, all in order to show respect for the ancestors and expand the kindness of love and family ties.
The late General Wei and Mrs. Yang of Jinghou of Lanling had a beautiful heart, kindness and virtue. She was born in a noble family for generations, and married into a prince's palace. She abided by the virtues of three obediences and never violated the etiquette.
But he still suffered misfortunes, lost his title many times, raised many children, and finally built a family business.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
母仪之教，光于邦族，诞启圣明，祚流万国，而早世殂陨，不遇休宠。
皇太后孝思蒸蒸，永慕罔极。
朕感存遗训，追远伤怀。其封夫人为县君，依德纪谥，主者详如旧典 于是使使持节、谒者何融追谥为平阳靖君。
四年，后崩，时年五十二，合葬崇阳陵。
将迁祔，帝手疏后德行，命史官为哀策曰：
明明先后，兴我晋道。
晖章淑问，以翼皇考。
迈德宣猷，大业有造，贻庆孤矇，堂构是保。
庶资复顾，永享难老。
奄然登遐，弃我何早！
沈哀罔诉，如何穹昊。
呜呼哀哉！
厥初生民，树之惠康。
帝迁明德，顾予先皇。
天立厥配，我皇是光。
作邦作对，德音无疆。
愍予不吊，天笃降殃。
日没《明夷》，中年陨丧。
translation: 
The teachings of mother rituals are reflected in the clans of the country, opening up the way of sage and spreading to all countries. However, she died young and was not favored.
The Empress Dowager has a sincere filial piety and always longs for her late mother.
I am grateful for the training and reminisce about the past with sadness. I now designate my wife as the county monarch and give her the title of Mi according to her virtue. The person in charge can implement it according to the old code. So he sent envoys to hold the festival and pay homage to He Rong, who became his wife and pursued Mi as Pingyang Jingjun.
Four years later, the Empress Dowager died at the age of fifty-two and was buried with Emperor Wen in Chongyang Mausoleum.
When the funeral was about to be moved and buried together, Emperor Wu personally listed the queen's virtues and ordered the historian to write a lament:
The great virtues of the Ming Dynasty have revitalized the national destiny of the Jin Dynasty.
His reputation was well known and he was used to assist the late emperor.
He followed the rules and regulations and created a magnificent imperial career. It brings blessings to the weak and ignorant people and protects the inheritance of the ancestors.
I hope to receive education for a long time and enjoy a long life.
Now he passed away suddenly and left me too early!
The sorrow cannot be expressed. Who would have expected that God would arrange this.
Alas!
When all nations are born, they are given grace to make them healthy.
The Emperor of Heaven transferred the virtues of wisdom and virtue to the late Emperor.
The choice established his mate, and our emperor became famous.
A state was established, and its good reputation spread far and wide.
It is a pity that we did not find shelter for a long time, and God sent disasters.
Just as the sun fades and its light is drowned, the queen died in middle age.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
茕茕在疚，永怀摧伤。
寻惟景行，于穆不已。
海岱降灵，世荷繁祉。
永锡祚胤，笃生文母。诞膺纯和，淑慎容止。质直不渝，体兹孝友。《诗》《书》是悦，礼籍是纪。
三从无违，中馈允理。
追惟先后，劳谦是尚。
爰初在室，竭力致养。嫔于大邦，皇基是相。
谧静隆化，帝业以创。
内叙嫔御，外协时望。
履信居顺，德行洽暢。
密勿无荒，劬劳克让。
崇俭抑华，冲素是放。
虽享崇高，欢嘉未飨。
胡宁弃之，我将曷仰？
咨余不造，大罚荐臻。
皇考背世，始逾三年。
仰奉慈亲，冀无后艰。
凶灾仍集，何辜于天。
呜呼哀哉！
translation: 
Being lonely and in sorrow often breaks your heart and soul.
It is really admirable to miss and yearn for noble virtues.
The Cambodian Sea and Mount Tai descend the gods and inherit the blessings of good fortune from generation to generation.
Grant us a long-lasting national destiny, give birth to a virtuous concubine, who can accept the destiny of heaven with purity and peace, be dignified and prudent in appearance and behavior, be simple, upright and unswerving, and personally pursue the way of filial piety to friends. He likes "Poems" and "Books" and is familiar with etiquette and law books.
Never violate the virtues of three obediences, and exercise the right way of running a family.
Respect the successive generations and advocate the virtues of diligence and humility.
When he was unmarried, he did his best to support his family and provide for his old age. After marrying into a powerful country, he worked hard to assist the emperor.
Tranquility and honesty became the norm, and the emperor's career was created from this.
The concubines and concubines are kept in good order internally, and they are in line with the expectations of people at the time externally.
Fulfill trustworthiness, handle affairs harmoniously, and have smooth moral character.
Be diligent but not lazy, work hard and be self-restrained and humble.
Advocating frugality and opposing luxury, modesty and simplicity.
Although he enjoyed a lofty status, he never enjoyed all the fun.
How can I abandon it? Who will I rely on in the future?
Lamenting my misfortune, great punishments came one after another.
Emperor Wen passed away only three years ago.
I serve my mother and hope there will be no more disasters.
Unexpectedly, bad things and disasters still come, and I have failed God.
Alas!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
灵轜夙驾，设祖中闱。辒辌动轸，既往不追。
哀哀皇妣，永潜灵晖。
进攀梓宫，顾援素旂。屏营穷痛，谁告谁依？
诉情赠策，以舒伤悲。
尚或有闻，顾予孤遗。
呜呼哀哉！
其后帝追慕不已，复下诏曰： 外曾祖母故司徒王郎夫人杨氏，舅氏尊属，郑、刘二从母，先后至爱。
每惟圣善，敦睦遗旨，渭阳之感，永怀靡及。
其封杨夫人及从母为乡君，邑各五百户。
太康七年，追赠继祖母夏侯氏为荥阳乡君。
武元杨皇后，讳艳，字琼芝，弘农华阴人也。
父文宗，见《外戚传》。母天水赵氏，早卒。
后依舅家，舅妻仁爱，亲乳养后，遣他人乳其子。
及长，又随后母段氏，依其家。
translation: 
The hearse is about to leave in the early morning. Gong Chanzhong has arranged a road ceremony and the funeral car is starting. The past cannot be recovered.
Poor mother, the spirit is hidden forever.
Climbing forward to support the coffin, I looked around at the funeral flags and flags. I was terrified and grieved. Who could I talk to and rely on?
I offer my heartfelt eulogy to express the sadness in my heart.
If you can hear me, please take care of me, an orphan without a father or a mother.
Alas!
After this, Emperor Wu thought about it endlessly and issued an edict: My maternal great-grandmother, Yang, the wife of the late Situ Wanglang, was a senior relative of my uncle's family, and my two aunts, Zheng and Liu, were both my dearest relatives and friends.
I often miss his virtues, kindness and harmony, even the sighs in Weiyang's poems are far less than this long-lasting longing.
Mrs. Yang and her aunt were granted the title of monarch of the township, with a settlement of 500 households each.
In the seventh year of Taikang, his step-grandmother Xiahou was given the posthumous title of Lord of Rongyang Township.
Empress Wu Yuanyang's name was Yan and her courtesy name was Qiongzhi. She was a native of Huayin, Hongnong.
His father, Yang Wenzong, whose deeds can be found in "The Biography of Wife's Relatives"; his mother, whose surname is Zhao in Tianshui, died long ago.
The queen relied on her uncle's family, and her uncle's wife was kind and kind. She fed the queen herself and let others breastfeed her children.
After the queen grew up, she followed her stepmother Duan and relied on her family.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
后少聪慧，善书，姿质美丽，闲于女工。
有善相者尝相后，当极贵，文帝闻而为世子聘焉。
甚被宠遇，生毗陵悼王轨、惠帝、秦献王柬，平阳、新丰、阳平公主。
武帝即位，立为皇后。
有司奏依汉故事，皇后、太子各食汤沐邑四十县，而帝以非古典，不许。
后追怀舅氏之恩，显官赵俊，纳俊兄虞女粲于后宫为夫人。
帝以皇太子不堪奉大统，密以语后。
后曰： 立嫡以长不以贤，岂可动乎？
初，贾充妻郭氏使赂后，求以女为太子妃。
及议太子婚，帝欲娶卫瓘女。然后盛称贾后有淑德，又密使太子太傅荀顗进言，上乃听之。
泰始中，帝博选良家以充后宫，先下书禁天下嫁娶，使宦者乘使车，给驺骑，驰传州郡，召充选者使后拣择。
后性妒，惟取洁白长大，其端正美丽者并不见留。
时卞籓女有美色，帝掩扇谓后曰： 卞氏女佳。
后曰： 籓三世后族，其女不可枉以卑位。
帝乃止。
司徒李胤、镇军大将军胡奋、廷尉诸葛冲、太仆臧权、侍中冯荪、秘书郎左思及世族子女并充三夫人九嫔之列。
司、冀、兗、豫四州二千石将吏家，补良人以下。
名家盛族子女，多败衣瘁貌以避之。
及后有疾，见帝素幸胡夫人，恐后立之，虑太子不安。
临终，枕帝膝曰： 叔父骏女男胤有德色，愿陛下以备六宫。
因悲泣，帝流涕许之。
泰始十年，崩于明光殿，绝子帝膝，时年三十七。
诏曰： 皇后逮事先后，常冀能终始永奉宗庙，一旦殂陨，痛悼伤怀。
translation: 
The queen has been smart and virtuous since she was a child, good at calligraphy, naturally beautiful, and a skilled craftswoman.
There was a person who knew how to read the face of the queen once and thought that she must be very noble. Emperor Wen heard about it and hired her for his son.
The queen was deeply favored and gave birth to three princesses: Sima Gui of Piling Mou, Emperor Hui of Jin, Sima Jian of Qin Xian, Pingyang, Xinfeng and Yanghu.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he made her his queen.
The competent authority reported that in accordance with the old practice of the Mo Dynasty, the queen and the prince were each granted forty counties in Tangmuyi. However, Emperor Wu believed that the emperor was different from the ancient system and did not agree.
The queen recalled her uncle's kindness and appointed Zhao Jun as a high-ranking official. She also took Zhao Can, the daughter of Zhao Jun's brother Zhao Yu, into the harem as his wife.
Emperor Wu believed that the crown prince was not capable of inheriting the throne and told the queen privately.
The queen said: The establishment of legitimate sons is based on age rather than talent. How can it be changed?
At first, Maichong's wife Guo asked someone to bribe the queen and asked for her daughter to be the crown princess.
When the prince's marriage was being discussed, Emperor Wu wanted to marry Wei Cui's daughter, but the queen praised Empress Jia's virtues and secretly ordered the prince's Tai Fu Xun Pin to persuade her, so Emperor Wu agreed.
During the Taishi period, Emperor Wu selected women from good families to fill the harem. He issued an edict in advance to prohibit people from marrying. He sent eunuchs to ride in envoys' cars and gave them entourage to drive chariots and horses. He rushed to various states and counties to summon candidates for the queen to choose.
The queen was jealous and only selected those women with fair complexions and slender figures. Those dignified and beautiful girls were not left behind.
At that time, Bian Fan's daughter was very beautiful. Emperor Wu covered his face with a fan and said to the queen: Bian's daughter is very good.
The queen said: Bian Fan has been a relative of the queen for three generations, and his daughter cannot be in a low position.
Emperor Wu gave up.
Situ Li Yin, the general of the town army Hu Fen, the court captain Zhuge Chong, the servant Zang Quan, the servant Feng Sun, the secretary Lang Zuosi and the women of the family were among the three wives and nine concubines.
The families of generals and officials with two thousand shi in the four prefectures of Si, Ji, Yan, and Henan were replenished to the level of a good man or less.
Most of the women from famous families wore rags and disfigured their appearance to avoid being selected into the palace.
When the queen was ill, she knew that Emperor Wu favored Mrs. Hu, so she might make her the queen in the future, fearing that the prince's status would be unstable.
When he was dying, he rested his head on Emperor Wu's knees and said: My uncle Yang Jun's daughter Nan Yin is both talented and beautiful. I hope your majesty will choose her to prepare the Sixth Palace.
And cried sadly, Emperor Wu agreed with tears.
In the tenth year of Taishi, the queen died in the Mingguang Palace on the knees of Emperor Wu. She was thirty-seven years old at the time.
The edict said: Ever since she started her service, the Queen has always hoped to be able to worship the ancestral temple forever. Once she dies, she will be really sad and sad.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
每自以夙丧二亲，于家门之情特隆。
又有心欲改葬父祖，以顷者务崇俭约，初不有言，近垂困，说此意，情亦愍之。
其使领前军将军骏等自克改葬之宜，至时，主者供给葬事。
赐谥母赵氏为县君，以继母段氏为乡君。
传不云乎， 慎终追远，民德归厚。
且使亡者有知，尚或嘉之。
于是有司卜吉，窀穸有期，乃命史臣作哀策叙怀。
其词曰：
天地配序，成化两仪。
王假有家，道在伉俪。
姜嫄佐喾，二妃兴妫。
仰希古昔，冀亦同规。
今胡不然，景命夙亏。
呜呼哀哉！
我应图箓，统临万方。
正位于内，实在嫔嫱。
天作之合，骏发之祥。
河岳降灵，启祚华阳。
奕世丰衍，硃绋斯煌。
缵女惟行，受命溥将。
来翼家邦，宪度是常。
缉熙阴教，德声显扬。
昔我先妣，晖曜休光。
后承前训，奉述遗芳。
宜嗣徽音，继序无荒。
如何不吊，背世陨丧。
望齐无主，长去烝尝。
追怀永悼，率土摧伤。
呜呼哀哉！
translation: 
She often lost her parents at an early age and has very deep feelings for her family.
He also wanted to rebury his father and grandfather, but because he was advocating economy at the time, he never mentioned it. She recently became critically ill and explained this idea, and I felt very sorry for her.
Now he is ordered to lead former army general Yang Jun and others to complete the funeral arrangements. When the time comes, the person in charge will provide funeral items.
Zhui Mi's mother, Zhao, was the county monarch, and his stepmother, Ken, was the township monarch.
Isn't it said in ancient classics that if you treat the death of your parents carefully and remember your distant ancestors, the people's virtues will be loyal.
Moreover, if the deceased knew it, they would protect us.
So the competent authorities divined the auspicious day and set the burial date, then ordered the historian to write a eulogy to express his feelings.
The eulogy said:
Heaven and earth match each other and become two rituals.
The king's family is prosperous and the population is large, and the way lies between husband and wife.
Jiang Xuan assisted the emperor's camp, and the two concubines Ehuang and Nuying made Shun's career prosperous.
I admire those of the past and hope to be like them.
This is not the case now. Your life has long been lost.
Alas!
I obey the destiny of God and rule the world.
In the palace, it is up to the concubines to rectify their reputation and position.
A match made in heaven, a sign of good fortune.
The mountains and rivers summoned spirits, and the queen was born in Huayang.
Generations are prosperous and prosperous, and the red official uniforms are gorgeous and brilliant.
When a good girl gets married, she inherits her ancestor's destiny and carries it forward.
After marrying into the royal family, she advocates abiding by the laws.
Guangda women's education, the voice of virtue is loud and clear.
Once upon a time, my late mother shone with virtue and virtue.
The queen inherited the training of her predecessors and followed the virtues of sending and staying.
It is the right thing to continue the sound of virtue and inherit it without any loss.
Why is it so unfortunate that he died young?
I hope that the deceased master is no longer in my family, and I have lost your glory forever during the sacrifice.
I will miss you forever. The whole world is heartbroken and sad.
Alas!


Chunk 11: 
original: 
陵兆既窆，将迁幽都，宵陈夙驾，元妃其徂。
宫闱遏密，阶庭空虚。
设祖布绋，告驾启涂。
服翚褕狄，寄象容车。
金路晻蔼，裳帐不舒。
千乘动轸，六骥踌躇。
铭旌树表，翣柳云敷。
祁祁同轨，岌岌烝徒。
孰不云怀，哀感万夫。
宁神虞卜，安体玄庐。
土房陶簋，齐制遂初。
依行纪谥，声被八区。
虽背明光，亦归皇姑。
没而不朽，世德作谟。
呜呼哀哉！
乃葬于峻阳陵。
武悼杨皇后，讳芷，字季兰，小字男胤，元后从妹。
父骏，别有传。
以咸宁二年立为皇后。
婉嫕有妇德，美映椒房，甚有宠。
生渤海殇王，早薨，遂无子。
translation: 
The tomb has been dug and you will move to the Nether Palace. Line up at night and set off early in the morning, the queen is about to travel.
There was no music in the palace, and there was silence above the courtyard steps.
The ancestral sacrifices have been set up and the ribbons have been prepared, and we are about to set off on our journey.
Put on your formal attire and rest everything on the car.
The gold-decorated carriage was dark and unclear, and the curtains surrounding the coffin were curled and unkempt.
The large group of men and horses started to move, but the horse driving them hesitated.
Set up good flags and banners to mark the occasion, and lay out the willows that lead to the coffin.
The vehicles marched slowly and neatly, and the people followed them in fear.
Who doesn't feel sad and sad?
A burial ceremony was held to appease the gods and the body was placed in the mausoleum.
Houses made of clay and sacrificial vessels made of clay were all prepared as expected.
According to the custom, the title of Mi was assigned, and the reputation of virtue filled the world.
Although he left the old palace, he still returned to his late mother's place.
Although he died, he was immortal and was regarded as a role model for generations to come.
Alas!
Buried in Junyang Mausoleum.
Empress Wu Daoyang's given name was Zhi, her courtesy name was Luoyan, and her nickname was Yuhuang. She was the cousin of Wujiang.
The father holds the strong, and there is another legend.
In the second year of Shengkong, she was established as queen.
Being meek and quiet has the virtues of a woman. Her virtues reflect the beauty of the harem and she is very favored.
She gave birth to King Bohai Shang, but unfortunately died early and never gave birth to another child.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
太康九年，后率内外夫人命妇躬桑于西郊，赐帛各有差。
太子妃贾氏妒忌，帝将废之。
后言于帝曰： 贾公闾有勋社稷，犹当数世宥之，贾妃亲是其女，正复妒忌之间，不足以一眚掩其大德。
后又数诫厉妃，妃不知后之助己，因以致恨，谓后构之于帝，忿怨弥深。
及帝崩，尊为皇太后。
贾后凶悖，忌后父骏执权，遂诬骏为乱，使楚王玮与东安王繇称诏诛骏。
内外隔塞，后题帛为书，射之城外，曰 救太傅者有赏， 贾后因宣言太后同逆。
骏既死，诏使后军将军荀悝送后于永宁宫。
特全后母高都君庞氏之命，听就后居止。
贾后讽群公有司奏曰： 皇太后阴渐奸谋，图危社稷，飞箭系书，要募将士，同恶相济，自绝于天。
鲁侯绝文姜，《春秋》所许，盖以奉顺祖宗，任至公于天下。
translation: 
In the ninth year of Taikang, the queen led her inner and outer wives and concubines to personally collect mulberry and raise silkworms in the western suburbs, and were rewarded with various amounts of silk.
The Crown Princess is jealous by nature, and Gen Shengtong plans to destroy her.
The queen said to Gendi: Xi Gongchi has made great contributions to the country and should be treated leniently for several generations. Concubine Jia was his biological daughter, and at a jealous age, it was not worth burying her great virtue because of this shortcoming.
The queen warned and encouraged Concubine Mai many times. Concubine Mai did not know that the queen had been helping her, so she became resentful. She thought that the queen was slandering her in front of the child arrester, and her resentment became deeper and deeper.
After the death of Emperor Wu, the queen was revered as the empress dowager.
After the purchase, she was violent and rebellious. She hated the queen's father Yang Jun for taking over the power, so he falsely accused Yang Jun of committing rebellion and ordered Sima Zhang, king of Chu, and Sima Yao, king of Shu'an, to kill Yang Jun under the false pretense of Shaoling.
At that time, there was no news inside and outside the palace. The queen wrote a letter on silk and shot it outside the city. It said "Whoever rescues the Taifu will be rewarded." Empress Jia then claimed that the Queen Mother was accomplices in the rebellion.
After Yang Jun's death, he issued an edict ordering the rear army general Xun Kui to send the Queen Mother to Yongning Palace.
In particular, the life of the Queen Mother's mother Gao Dujun Pang was preserved and she was allowed to live with the Queen Mother.
Empress Jia instructs the ministers and departments to report: The Empress Dowager secretly has a conspiracy to harm the country. She ties the letter to an arrow and shoots it out. She plans to recruit soldiers to commit evil together and annihilate herself from heaven.
The Marquis of Lu abandoned his mother Wen Jiang, which was approved by the Spring and Autumn Annals. It was to respect and obey the ancestors and to promote the righteousness and justice in the world.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
陛下虽怀无已之情，臣下不敢奉诏。
可宣敕王公于朝堂会议。
诏曰： 此大事，更详之。
有司又奏： 骏藉外戚之资，居冢宰之任，陛下既居谅闇，委以重权，至乃阴图凶逆，布树私党。
皇太后内为脣齿，协同逆谋，祸衅既彰，背捍诏命，阻兵负众，血刃宫省，而复流书募众，以奖凶党，上背祖宗之灵，下绝亿兆之望。
昔文姜与乱，《春秋》所贬，吕宗叛戾，高后降配，宜废皇太后为峻阳庶人。
中书监张华等以为 太后非得罪于先帝者也，今党恶所亲，为不母于圣世。宜依孝成赵皇后故事，曰武帝皇后，处之离宫，以全贵终之恩 。
尚书令、下邳王晃等议曰： 皇太后与骏潜谋，欲危社稷，不可复奉承宗庙，配合先帝。
宜贬尊号，废诣金墉城。
于是有司奏： 请从晃等议，废太后为庶人。
translation: 
Although your majesty has an ineradicable affection for you, your ministers dare not act according to the imperial edict.
I hope to summon the princes to the court to discuss it together.
Shaoshu said: This is a big thing, we need to understand it further.
The competent department reported again: Yang Jun occupied the high position of prime minister by virtue of his qualifications as a relative. When His Majesty was in mourning, he entrusted him with important powers, so that he secretly plotted rebellion and established a private party.
The empress dowager cooperated with others and worked together to conspire to rebel. The cause of the rebellion was obvious. She blatantly violated the edict and relied on the strength of the army to massacre in the palace. Then she sent a message to recruit soldiers and rewarded the rebels. She betrayed the gods of her ancestors and cut off the expectations of the people in the world.
In the past, Wen Jiang participated in promiscuity and was demoted in the "Spring and Autumn Annals". The clan surnamed Lu was rebellious and Gao Zu was demoted later. The Empress Dowager should be deposed as a commoner in Junyang.
Zhongshu Supervisor Zhang Hua and others believed that the Empress Dowager was not guilty of the late emperor's crime. Now she colluded with her relatives and acted unconventionally as a mother in today's holy world. She should follow the example of Empress Xiaocheng Zhao and call her Empress Wu Emperor. She should be placed in the palace to preserve her kindness that made her noble throughout her life.
Shangshu Ling, Xiapi King Sima Huang and others discussed: The empress dowager conspired with Yang Jun to harm the country. She can no longer be allowed to flatter the ancestral temple, nor can she be matched with the late emperor.
The title should be demoted, abandoned and then moved to Jinyong City.
So the authorities in charge said: Please follow the opinions of Sima Huang and others and depose the Queen Mother as a commoner.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
遣使者以太牢告于郊庙，以奉承祖宗之命，称万国之望。
至于诸所供奉，可顺圣恩，务从丰厚。
诏不许。
有司又固请，乃可之。
又奏： 杨骏造乱，家属应诛，诏原其妻庞命，以慰太后之心。
今太后废为庶人，请以庞付廷尉行刑。
诏曰： 听庞与庶人相随。
有司希贾后旨，固请，乃从之。
庞临刑，太后抱持号叫，截发稽颡，上表诣贾后称妾，请全母命，不见省。
初，太后尚有侍御十馀人，贾后夺之，绝膳而崩，时年三十四，在位十五年。
贾后又信妖巫，谓太后必诉冤先帝，乃覆而殡之，施诸厌劾符书药物。
永嘉元年，追复尊号，别立庙，神主不配武帝。
至成帝咸康七年，下诏使内外详议。
translation: 
Send people to offer Tailao sacrifices and blessings to the ancestral temple to flatter the ancestors and conform to the wishes of the world.
As for all kinds of offerings, you can obey the grace of the Holy One and strive to be generous.
The edict did not agree.
The competent authority insisted on the request and approved the petition.
He also said: Yang Jun rebelled and committed rebellion, and his family members should be killed. The edict forgave his wife Pang in order to appease the Queen Mother's heart.
Now that the Queen Mother has been deposed as a commoner, please hand Pang over to the Tingwei for execution.
The edict said: Pang is allowed to accompany common people.
The competent authorities catered to the wishes of the buyer and insisted on the request, so they obeyed.
Before Pang's execution, the Empress Dowager held her and cried, tore off her hair and touched her head to the ground. She wrote a petition to Empress Jia, claiming to be her concubine, and begging to save her mother's life, but was ignored.
At first, there were more than a dozen people serving the Queen Mother, but after the purchase, they were all removed. The Queen Mother went on a hunger strike and died at the age of thirty-four, after reigning for fifteen years.
Empress Jia believed the words of the witch and believed that the Empress Dowager would definitely go to the late Emperor to complain about her grievances, so she was buried with her face turned upside down and added various talismans and medicines to eliminate evil spirits.
In the first year of Yongjia, the title was restored posthumously, and another temple was built for worship, but the deity did not match that of Emperor Wu.
In the seventh year of Xiankang's reign, Emperor Cheng issued an edict ordering ministers at home and abroad to discuss it seriously.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
卫将军虞潭议曰： 世祖武皇帝光有四海，元皇后应乾作配。
元后既崩，悼后继作，至杨骏肆逆，祸延天母。
孝怀皇帝追复号谥，岂不以鲧殛禹兴，义在不替者乎！
又太宁二年，臣宗正，帝谱泯弃，罔所循按。
时博谘旧齿，以定昭穆，与故骠骑将军华恆、尚书荀崧、侍中荀邃因旧谱参论撰次，尊号之重，一无改替。
今圣上孝思，祗肃禋祀，询及群司，将以恢定大礼。
臣辄思详，伏见惠皇帝《起居注》、群臣议奏，列骏作逆谋，危社稷，引鲁之文姜，汉之吕后。
臣窃以文姜虽庄公之母，实为父仇；吕后宠树私戚，几危刘氏，按此二事异于今日，昔汉章帝窦后杀和帝之母，和帝即位尽诛诸窦。
当时议者欲贬窦后，及后之亡，欲不以礼葬。
和帝以奉事十年，义不可违，臣子之道，务从丰厚，仁明之称，表于往代。
又见故尚书仆射裴頠议悼后故事，称继母虽出，追服无改。
是以孝怀皇帝尊崇号谥，还葬峻陵。
此则母子道全，而废事荡革也。
于时祭于弘训之宫，未入太庙。
盖是事之未尽，非义典也。
若以悼后复位为宜，则应配食世祖；若以复之为非，则谱谥宜阙，未有位号居正，而偏祠别室者也。
若以孝怀皇帝私隆母子之道，特为立庙者，此苟崇私情，有亏国典，则国谱帝讳，皆宜除弃，匪徒不得同祀于世祖之庙也。
translation: 
General Wei Yutan commented: Emperor Shizuwu shines all over the world, and Queen Yuan obeys the will of God and matches it.
After the death of Empress Yuan, the mourners continued until Yang Jun indulged in rebellion and the disaster spread to the Empress Dowager.
Emperor Xiaohuai posthumously recognized and restored the title of Mi. Isn't it just like Gun being executed and Dayu being reused? It shows that morality lies in not scapegoating others?
Furthermore, in the second year of Taining, when I assumed the position of Zongzheng, the genealogy of the imperial family was extinct and there was no data to follow.
At that time, respected elders were widely questioned to determine the order of Zhaomu. Together with the former hussar general Hua Heng, Shangshu Xunsong, and Shizhong Xunsui, they discussed and compiled and compiled it according to the old records. It is difficult to change such an important matter as the title.
Now, with the heart of filial piety, the Holy Spirit is performing the ritual ceremony respectfully and solemnly, consulting all the officials, and preparing to resume the ceremony.
I thought about it again and again, and read Emperor Hui's "Daily Notes" and the ministers' memorials, which listed the facts of Yang Jun's conspiracy to rebel and endanger the country, and cited examples such as Wen Jiang of Lu and Empress Lu of the Han Dynasty.
I think that although Wen Jiang was the mother of Duke Zhuang of Lu, she was actually his father's enemy; Empress Lu favored her relatives and almost harmed Liu Han's world. These two things are different from what happens today. In the past, Emperor Mozhang's Empress Bao killed Emperor He's mother. After Emperor He came to the throne, he killed all the people in Empress Bao's family.
The ministers who discussed the matter at that time suggested that Empress Dou be belittled and that when Empress Dowager died, she should not be buried according to the empress's etiquette.
Emperor He believed that after serving the late emperor for ten years, etiquette and justice should not be violated. As a minister, one should strive for tolerance. His reputation as a benevolent and wise man would be known to future generations.
I also saw the past events after the mourning discussed by the former minister Pei Yuan, saying that although the stepmother was divorced, the system of supplementary mourning cannot be changed.
So Emperor Xiaohuai gave him the nickname "Mi" and transported the body back to Junling for burial.
In this way, the relationship between mother and child will be perfect, and the past will be wiped out.
At that time, sacrifices were held at Hongxun Palace and did not enter the Ancestral Temple.
This is an incomplete matter and does not comply with moral laws.
If it is believed that it is appropriate to restore the old position after mourning, then one should enjoy the sacrifices together with the ancestor; if it is believed that the restoration is wrong, then the title of Mi in the genealogy should also be vacant. There is no reason for the position and name to occupy the position of the main room, and the sacrifices should be performed in another room.
If it is believed that Emperor Xiaohuai selfishly valued the relationship between mother and child and built a temple specifically for her, which was a partiality and was indebted to the national code, then the titles related to the mourning should be removed from the genealogy secrets of the country and the imperial family, not only that they would not be able to enjoy sacrifices with the ancestors in the Ancestral Temple.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
会稽王昱、中书监庾冰、中书令何充、尚书令诸葛恢、尚书谢广、光禄勋留擢、丹杨尹殷融、护军将军冯怀、散骑常侍邓逸等咸从潭议，由是太后配食武帝。
左贵嫔，名芬。
兄思，别有传。
芬少好学，善缀文，名亚于思，武帝闻而纳之。
泰始八年，拜修仪。
受诏作愁思之文，因为《离思赋》曰：
生蓬户之侧陋兮，不闲习于文符。
不见图画之妙像兮，不闻先哲之典谟。
既愚陋而寡识兮，谬忝厕于紫庐。
非草苗之所处兮，恆怵惕以忧惧。
怀思慕之忉怛兮，兼始终之万虑。
嗟隐忧之沈积兮，独郁结而靡诉。
意惨愦而无聊兮，思缠绵以增慕。
夜耿耿而不寐兮，魂憧憧而至曙。
风骚骚而四起兮，霜皑皑而依庭。
日晻暧而无光兮，气懰栗以冽清。
怀愁戚之多感兮，患涕泪之自零。
translation: 
King Sima Yu of Kuaiji, Supervisor of Zhongshu Yu Bing, Ling He Chong of Zhongshu, Ling Zhuge Hui of Shangshu, Shangshu Xie Guang, Guang Luxun Liuzhai, Danyang Yin Yinrong, General Hujun! You, Sanqi Changshi Suyi and others all agreed with Yu Tan's opinion, and from then on the Queen Mother was able to enjoy sacrifices with Emperor Wu.
The concubine Zuo Gui’s name is Fen.
His brother Zuo Si has another biography.
Zuo Fenbai was studious and good at writing articles when she was young. Her reputation was second only to Zuo Si. Emperor Wu heard about her and took her into the harem.
In the eighth year of Taishi's reign, he was granted the title of Xiu Yi.
Accepting Shao's order to write an article about melancholy, he wrote "Lisi Fu":
I grew up in a shabby alley of Pengmen, so I am not adept at official writing.
I have never seen beautiful images, nor heard the teachings of sages.
He is stupid, ignorant and ill-informed, yet he lives in the palace of the royal family.
This is not a place where humble people should live, so they are always fearful, sad and terrified.
I feel longing and sentimental, and have all kinds of doubts from beginning to end.
I lament that the sorrow in my heart gradually accumulates, and I am depressed and have nowhere to report it.
I am upset and bored, my thoughts are lingering and my sorrow is doubled.
I couldn't sleep at night, and my mind was in a trance until dawn.
The cold wind blows everywhere and is desolate, and the courtyard is covered with white frost.
The sun was dim and dull, and the air seemed sad and cold.
I feel sad and sentimental, and I can't help but shed tears.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
昔伯瑜之婉娈兮，每彩衣以娱亲。
悼今日之乖隔兮，奄与家为参辰。
岂相去之云远兮，曾不盈乎数寻。
何宫禁之清切兮，欲瞻睹而莫因。
仰行云以歔欷兮，涕流射而沾巾。
惟屈原之哀感兮，嗟悲伤于离别。
彼城阙之作诗兮，亦以日而喻月。
况骨肉之相于兮，永缅邈而两绝。
长含哀而抱戚兮，仰苍天而泣血。
乱曰：骨肉至亲，化为他人，永长辞兮。
惨怆愁悲，梦想魂归，见所思兮。
惊寤号咷，心不自聊，泣涟氵而兮。
援笔舒情，涕泪增零，诉斯诗兮。后为贵嫔，姿陋无宠，以才德见礼。
体羸多患，常居薄室，帝每游华林，辄回辇过之。
言及文义，辞对清华，左右侍听，莫不称美。
及元杨皇后崩，芬献诔曰：惟泰始十年秋七月丙寅，晋元皇后杨氏崩，呜呼哀哉！
translation: 
In the past, Boyu obeyed his parents and often wore colorful clothes to entertain his relatives.
I feel sad about today's farewell. Suddenly, my family and I have become stars isolated from each other.
Isn't this too far apart? The distance is no more than tens of feet.
Unfortunately, the palace is strict and noble. I want to visit my relatives but there is no reason.
I look up at the passing clouds and weep and sigh, my clothes and towels are stained with tears.
Qu Yuan also once lamented and lamented his departure.
He looked at the city tower from a distance and wrote poems, also using the moon as a metaphor.
What's more, the love between flesh and blood is forever separated.
I have been mourning and hugging my relatives for a long time, looking up to the sky and weeping blood.
Luan said: We are close relatives of flesh and blood, but they have become strangers and will be separated forever.
Sad and desolate, I dreamed of returning to my hometown and seeing the relatives I missed.
He woke up wailing, unable to masturbate, and burst into tears. I wrote this poem with a pen to express my feelings and tears.
Later, she was named a noble concubine. She was not favored because of her ugly appearance, but she was treated politely because of her literary talent and virtue.
She was weak and sentimental, and often lived in a shabby house. Emperor Wu often visited her when he returned to Hualin every time he traveled to Hualin.
When talking about the meaning of the text, his words are clear and beautiful, and everyone who listens to him praises him.
When Empress Yuan Yang passed away, Zuo Fen wrote a eulogy: On Bingyin, July 7th, the autumn of the tenth year of Taishi, Empress Yang of Jin Yuan Dynasty passed away. How sad!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
昔有莘适殷，姜姒归周，宣德中闱，徽音永流。
樊卫二姬，匡齐翼楚；马邓两妃，亦毗汉主。
峨峨元后，光嫔晋宇。
伉俪圣皇，比踪往古。
遭命不永，背阳即阴。
六宫号咷，四海恸心。
嗟余鄙妾，衔恩特深。
追慕三良，甘心自沈。
何用存思？
不忘德音。
何用纪述？
托辞翰林。
惟岳降神，显兹祯祥。
笃生英媛，休有烈光。
含灵握文，异于庶姜。
和暢春日，操厉秋霜。
疾彼攸遂，敦此义方。
率由四教，匪怠匪荒。
行周六亲，徽音显扬。
显扬伊何？
京室是臧。
乃娉乃纳，聿嫔圣皇。
鸣珮有节，发言有章。
仰观列图，俯览篇籍。
顾问女史，咨询竹帛。
translation: 
In the past, there were daughters of Xin who married in Yin, and Jiang Si became the wife of the Emperor of Zhou. They promoted morality in the palace, and their virtues were spread forever.
The two concubines Fan and Wei served as Kuang Qi to assist Chu; the two concubines Ma and Deng assisted Emperor Mo.
The dignified Empress Yuan was lucky enough to marry into the Jin Palace.
Being married to the Holy Emperor can be compared with the ancients.
If you don't live long, you will die and go to the underworld.
The Sixth Palace is wailing up and down, and the whole world is sad.
Sigh, my concubine has received profound favors.
Remembering the three good concubines in ancient times, I am willing to indulge.
How to express condolences?
Her virtue will never be forgotten.
How to describe her deeds?
It lies in the writing and diction. So I wrote the eulogy:
The eminent Empress Yuan came out of the Baiyang family.
Generation after generation are dignitaries, and the sunshine in China shines brightly on people.
The gods descended from the mountains, showing auspicious signs, and a virtuous girl was born, showing great splendor.
Full of aura and talent, she is completely different from ordinary women.
In the warm spring, in the urgent cold autumn, I hate being arbitrary and pursue standardized moral laws.
Follow the four upbringings of De Yan, Rong Gong and never slack off.
Moral favor extends to all relatives, and good reputation is spread everywhere.
How about Xian Yang?
Royal praise.
So he engaged and married and stayed with the Holy Emperor.
He is in charge of the harem because he values ​​his moral character. Act in compliance with etiquette and speak in compliance with laws and regulations.
Look through the books and review the chapters.
Ask about the history of harem women and look up articles in ancient books.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
思媚皇姑，虔恭朝夕。
允厘中馈，执事有恪。
于礼斯劳，于敬斯勤。
虽曰齐圣，迈德日新。
日新伊何，克广弘仁。
终温且惠，帝妹是亲。
经纬六宫，罔不弥纶。
群妾惟仰，譬彼北辰。
亦既青阳，鸣鸠告时，躬执桑曲，率导媵姬。
修成蚕蔟，分茧理丝。
女工是察，祭服是治。
祗奉宗庙，永言孝思。
于彼六行，靡不蹈之。
皇英佐舜，涂山翼禹。惟卫惟樊，二霸是辅。
明明我后，异世同矩。
亦能有乱，谋及天府。
内敷阴教，外毗阳化。
绸缪庶正，密勿夙夜。
恩从风翔，泽随雨播。
中外禔福，遐迩咏歌。
天祚贞吉，克昌克繁。
则百斯庆，育圣育贤。教逾妊姒，训迈姜嫄。
translation: 
I respect the royal aunt and serve her devoutly in the morning and evening.
The inner palace is well managed and affairs are handled in a legal and orderly manner.
Be polite and careful, respectful and diligent.
Although he is wise and agile, he still practices his virtues and renews them day by day.
It doesn’t matter if morality is renewed day by day, benevolence will be carried forward widely.
He is gentle and virtuous, and treats the royal sisters affectionately.
Ruling the sixth house, Mibu takes good care of you.
The concubines admired her and compared her to the North Star.
Every early spring, the turtle dove crows to announce the time and leads the concubine to raise silkworms and collect mulberry.
Separate the silkworm cocoons with silkworm tools and arrange the silk.
Supervise the female workers sewing sacrificial garments.
It is dedicated to the ancestral temple and chants filial piety.
Do all six kinds of good deeds.
Emperor E and Nvying assisted Emperor Shun, Tushan's daughter helped Dayu, and Queen Wei and Fan Ji assisted the two overlords respectively.
Our wise and capable queen has the same morals as them although they are different.
There can also be chaos, taking into account the important affairs of Tianfu.
Internally, he applies the teachings of women, while externally, he applies the principles of kingly transformation.
Live close to the concubines and concubines, and work diligently day and night.
Grace spreads like the wind and falls like rain.
There was peace and happiness inside and outside the imperial court, and people praised it from far and near.
God bestows you with good luck and happiness, and your descendants will be prosperous and numerous.
Having many children and grandchildren, the virtuous and sage’s teachings surpass those of Tai Sheng and Tai Si, and their training surpasses that of Jiang Xuan.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
堂堂太子，惟国之元。
济济南阳，为屏为籓。
本支菴蔼，四海廕焉。
微斯皇妣，孰兹克臻。
曰乾盖聪，曰圣允诚。
积善之堂，五福所并。
宜享高年，匪陨匪倾。
如彭之齿，如聃之龄。
云胡不造，于兹祸殃。寝疾弥留，寤寐不康。
巫咸骋术，和鹊奏方。
祈祷无应，尝药无良。
形神将离，载昏载荒。
奄忽崩殂，湮精灭光。
哀哀太子，南阳繁昌。
攀援不寐，擗踊摧伤。
呜呼哀哉！
阖宫号咷，宇内震惊。
奔者填衢，赴者塞庭，哀恸雷骇，流泪雨零。
惟帝与后，契阔在昔。
比翼白屋，双飞紫阁。
悼后伤后，早即窀穸。
言斯既及，涕泗陨落。
追惟我后，实聪实哲。
通于性命，达于俭节。
送终之礼，比素上世。
襚无珍宝，唅无明月。
潜辉梓宫，永背昭晰。
臣妾哀号，同此断绝。
庭宇遏密，幽室增阴。
空设帏帐，虚置衣衾。
人亦有言，神道难寻。
悠悠精爽，岂浮岂沈。
丰奠日陈，冀魂之临。
孰云元后，不闻其音。
乃议景行，景行已溢。
translation: 
The majestic and heroic prince occupies the first place in the country.
The beautiful and prosperous Nanyang is the barrier of the country.
The descendants of the legitimate concubine will not decline, and the world will be protected.
Such a queen, who can be so perfect.
He is called a king because of his intelligence, and he is called a saint because of his integrity.
The palace of accumulated good deeds gathers good fortune, prosperity and longevity.
The queen deserves to live a long life without any harm.
He should live as long as Peng Zu and be as old as Lao Dan.
Why is it so unfortunate to encounter such a disaster? He is bedridden, unable to recover for a long time, and cannot be well day and night.
Ask miraculous doctors like Wu Xian to use their talents, and doctors like Bian Que to contribute prescriptions.
There was no answer to my prayers and no improvement after taking medicine.
Form and spirit will be separated, and I will feel dizzy every day.
Once she dies prematurely, the queen's aura will disappear.
The grief-stricken prince is in Fanchang, Nanyang.
Clinging and crying, I can't sleep at night, beating my chest and feet with infinite sadness.
Alas!
Looking out from the palace, the world was shocked.
The avenues were filled with mourners, and the courtyards were crowded with mourners. The grief was so great that the cries shook the sky, and the tears poured down like heavy rain from the sky.
Everyone offers their love, just like losing your biological parents.
The emperor and the empress were dependent on each other in the past, living together in ordinary times, and flying together when they were rich and powerful.
In memory of the queen, she was laid to rest underground prematurely.
As soon as I mentioned Baobao, my tears couldn't stop falling.
In memory of our queen, how wise and wise she was.
Understand life, understand thrift.
The end-of-life etiquette is simple and unpretentious compared to previous lives.
There are no precious stones in his clothes, and there are no pearls in his mouth.
The glory was hidden in the coffin, and the wisdom and brilliance were lost forever.
My concubines are wailing, saying farewell to you forever.
The courtyard of the house is silent, and the dark room only adds to the coldness.
The curtains are set up in vain, and the quilts are laid out in vain.
It is often said that Shinto is hard to find.
How can your soul be ups and downs?
Offering generous sacrifices every day, looking forward to the arrival of the soul.
Who said our Queen Yuan could not hear these voices.
In pursuit of her noble virtue, the title of Mi was chosen based on her virtue.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
乃考龟筮，龟筮袭吉。
爰定宅兆，克成玄室。
魂之往矣，于以令日。
仲秋之晨，启明始出。
星陈夙驾，灵舆结驷。
其舆伊何？
金根玉箱。
其驷伊何？
二骆双黄。
习习容车，硃服丹章。
隐隐轜轩，弁绖繐裳。
华毂曜野，素盖被原。
方相仡仡，旌旐翻翻。
挽童引歌，白骥鸣辕。
观者夹涂，士女涕涟。
千乘万骑，迄彼峻山。
峻山峨峨，曾阜重阿。
弘高显敞，据洛背河。左瞻皇姑，右睇帝家。
推存揆亡，明神所嘉。
诸姑姊妹，娣以媵御。
追送尘轨，号咣衢路。
王侯卿士，云会星布。
群官庶僚，缟盖无数。
咨嗟通夜，东方云曙。
translation: 
They also used turtle harps for divination, and the harbingers of the turtle harbours were very auspicious.
The cemetery was surveyed and the tomb was built.
The time for the soul to set out is at the chosen auspicious time.
In the morning of mid-autumn, we started to set off as soon as the sky was dim.
The constellation-like procession started at dawn, and the hearse drove four big horses.
How does the hearse look like?
Jin Zhurui made a carriage made of silver.
What do four big horses look like?
Two white and two yellow.
The slowly moving hearse, Zhu Chi's dress has red patterns.
The funeral car advanced indistinctly, and people wore sackcloth and mourned.
Exquisite cars shine on the fields, and plain white umbrella covers cover the fields.
The teams dressed as gods to drive away ghosts and monsters are majestic and majestic, with flags of various colors fluttering in the wind.
The boys pulling the hearse sang funeral songs, and the white carriages screamed mournfully.
Crowds of people watching stood on both sides, with men and women in tears.
Officials, big and small, rode horses to the high hills.
The mountain peaks are towering and overlapping.
The cemetery is tall and open, facing Luoshui and with Huanghui at its back. You can look at the Queen Mother to the left and the imperial mausoleum to the right.
Whether his life or death is a blessing from the gods.
Many aunts and sisters, Concubine Di Si.
Follow the funeral car that bids farewell to the Queen, crying and crying along the way.
The princes and ministers attending the funeral were like nebulae in the sky.
There are countless white mourning clothes for officials, big and small.
People mourned and sighed all night until dawn appeared in the east.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
百祗奉迎，我后安厝。
中外俱临，同哀并慕。
涕如连云，泪如湛露。
扃闿既阖，窈窈冥冥。
有夜无昼，曷用其明。
不封不树，山坂同形。
昔后之崩，大火西流。寒往暑过，今亦孟秋。
自我衔恤，倏忽一周。
衣服将变，痛心若抽。
逼彼礼制，惟以增忧。
去此素衣，结恋灵丘。
有始有终，天地之经。自非三光，谁能不零。
存播令德，没图丹青。
先哲之志，以此为荣。
温温元后，实宣慈焉。
抚育群生，恩惠滋焉。
遗爱不已，永见思焉。
悬名日月，垂万春焉。
呜呼庶妾，感四时焉。
言思言慕，涕涟氵而焉。
咸宁二年，纳悼后，芬于座受诏作颂，其辞曰：
峨峨华狱，峻极泰清。
translation: 
Many gods came to greet her, and the queen was being buried.
Everyone inside and outside the palace came together to express their condolences and thoughts.
Tears drip down onto the beach, reaching up to the clouds in the sky and thicker than the dew below.
The door to the tomb has been closed, making it deep and dark.
If there is night but no day, what use is there for lighting?
There is no tomb, no tree monument, and the cemetery is the same shape as the mountain.
The queen passed away, the great Mars traveled westward, the cold came and the summer came, and now it was early autumn again.
It has been a year since our death.
The mourning clothes are about to be removed, and my heart is very painful.
Being bound by etiquette only adds to the sadness.
Although she took off her plain clothes, her heart still remained beside the queen's spiritual mound.
There is a beginning and an end, this is the eternal way of heaven and earth. Who can live forever without the three lights of the sun, moon and stars?
Praise noble moral character without hoping to leave a trace.
It is the wish of the sages and we are proud of it.
The gentle queen indeed loves the world.
He has nurtured all living beings, and his grace is everywhere.
The kindness he left behind is always worth remembering.
The name Yu said that the sun and the moon are both bright, and will last forever.
Oh my concubine, I miss you all year round.
I miss the queen and shed tears of sadness.
In the second year of Xianning, after Na Li mourned, Zuo Fen accepted the edict and sang a eulogy on his seat. His words said:
The majestic Huashan Mountain is so precipitous and steep that it reaches into the clouds.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
巨灵导流，河渎是经。惟渎之神，惟岳之灵。
钟于杨族，载育盛明。
穆穆我后，应期挺生。
含聪履喆，岐嶷夙成。
如兰之茂，如玉之荣。
越在幼冲，休有令名。
飞声八极，翕习紫庭。
超妊邈姒，比德皇英。
京室是嘉，备礼致娉。
令月吉辰，百僚奉迎。
周生归韩，诗人是咏。
我后戾止，车服晖映。登位太微，明德日盛。
群黎欣戴，函夏同庆。
翼翼圣皇，睿喆孔纯。
愍兹狂戾，阐惠播仁。
蠲衅涤秽，与时惟新。
沛然洪赦，恩诏遐震。
后之践阼，囹圄虚陈。
万国齐欢，六合同欣。
坤神抃舞，天人载悦。
兴瑞降祥，表精日月。
和气烟煴，三光朗烈。
既获嘉时，寻播甘雪。
玄云晻蔼，灵液霏霏，既储既积，待阳而晞。
translation: 
The river gods and giant spirits guide the river flow and control rivers of all sizes. The god of rivers and mountains, the spirit of Huayue.
Love the Yang family and make it prosperous.
The virtuous queen was born here.
She is witty and talented, and her intelligence was born from childhood.
As lush as orchids, as beautiful as jade.
When he was still young, he already had a good reputation.
The reputation quickly spread to all directions and returned to the palace.
It surpassed Taizu and Taisi, and its virtue could be compared with that of Emperor E and Nvying.
The royal family praised her and prepared gifts for her engagement.
Choose an auspicious day and a good time, and all officials will welcome you.
Just like when Zhou Sheng returned to Korea, all the poets sang about it.
When the queen comes to the palace, her carriages, carriages, and costumes complement each other, she ascends the queen's throne, and her virtues flourish day by day.
The people support it and the whole world celebrates it.
The solemn Holy Emperor is wise and harmonious.
Show mercy to those who are violent, show kindness and spread kindness.
Cleanse away discord and impurity, and be renewed day by day.
The world is amnesty, and the edict of granting grace affects far away places.
After the queen was sealed, the prison became a virtual reality.
People inside and outside cheer together, and the whole world celebrates together.
The goddesses high-fived and danced, and the rishis rejoiced.
It brings good luck and auspicious signs, and the sun and the moon release auspicious energy.
The auspicious clouds surround the two qi and merge, and the sun, moon and stars shine brightly.
The good season has arrived, and the auspicious snow will be sown soon.
The clouds were thick and the rain was falling. Accumulating auspicious rain and dew, waiting for the glory of the sun.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
曣晛沾濡，柔润中畿。
长享丰年，福禄永绥。
及帝女万年公主薨，帝痛悼不已，诏芬为诔，其文甚丽。
帝重芬词藻，每有方物异宝，必诏为赋颂，以是屡获恩赐焉。
答兄思诗、书及杂赋颂数十篇，并行于世。
胡贵嫔名芳。
父奋，别有传。
泰始九年，帝多简良家子女以充内职，自择其美者以绛纱系臂。
而芳既入选，下殿号泣。左右止之曰： 陛下闻声。
芳曰： 死且不畏，何畏陛下！
帝遣洛阳令司马肇策拜芳为贵嫔。
帝每有顾问，不饰言辞，率尔而答，进退方雅。
时帝多内宠，平吴之后复纳孙皓宫人数千，自此掖庭殆将万人，而并宠者甚众，帝莫知所适，常乘羊车，恣其所之，至便宴寝。
translation: 
Hexi's rain and dew soaked into the ground and moistened all parts of Kyoto.
I wish you long life and endless blessings.
When Emperor Wu's daughter Princess Wannian passed away, Emperor Wu was deeply saddened and ordered Zuo Fen to write a eulogy with gorgeous words.
Emperor Wu valued Zuo Fen's writings and words. Whenever there were local products and unusual facts, he would definitely ask her to write poems for them. Therefore, she received many gifts.
She wrote dozens of poems, letters and odes in response to her brother Zuo Si, all of which have been circulated in the world.
Hu Guifei's name is Fang.
There is another biography about his father, Hu Fen.
In the ninth year of Taishi, Emperor Wu widely selected women from good families to enrich his inner palace. He selected beautiful women from among them and tied them on his arms with crimson silk.
After Hu Fang was selected, she started to cry when she got down from the palace. The people around her stopped her and said: "It is unlucky for Your Majesty to hear crying."
Hu Fang said: If you are not afraid of death, how can you be afraid of Your Majesty?
Emperor Wu sent Luoyang Order Sima Zhao to make Hu Fang a noble concubine.
Whenever Emperor Wu asked something about something, she answered straightforwardly without modifying her words, and her actions were upright and generous.
At that time, Emperor Wu had many favored concubines. After pacifying Wu, he took in thousands of Sun Hao's maids. From then on, there were nearly 10,000 concubines in the inner palace. There were many favored people. Emperor Wu didn't know where to go, so he often took a sheep cart and followed them wherever they went, and rested and stayed after arriving.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
官人乃取竹叶插户，以盐汁洒地，而引帝车。
然芳最蒙爱幸，殆有专房之宠焉，侍御服饰亚于皇后。
帝尝与之摴蒱，争矢，遂伤上指。
帝怒曰： 此固将种也！
芳对曰： 北伐公孙，西距诸葛，非将种而何？
帝甚有惭色。
芳生武安公主。
诸葛夫人，名婉，琅邪阳都人也。
父冲，字茂长，廷尉卿。
婉以泰始九年春入宫，帝临轩，使使持节、洛阳令司马肇拜为夫人。
兄铨，字德林，散骑常侍。
铨弟玫，字仁林，侍中、御史中丞。
玫妇弟周穆，清河王覃之舅也。
永嘉初，穆与玫劝东海王越废怀帝，立覃，越不许。
重言之，越怒，遂斩玫及穆。
临刑，玫谓穆曰： 我语卿何道？
穆曰： 今日复何所说。
时人方知谋出于穆，非玫之意。
惠贾皇后，讳南风，平阳人也，小名旹。父充，别有传。
初，武帝欲为太子取卫瓘女，元后纳贾郭亲党之说，欲婚贾氏。
帝曰： 卫公女有五可，贾公女有五不可。
卫家种贤而多子，美而长白；贾家种妒而少子，丑而短黑。
元后固请，荀顗、荀勖并称充女之贤，乃定婚。
始欲聘后妹午，午年十二，小太子一岁，短小未胜衣。
更娶南风，时年十五，大太子二岁。
泰始八年二月辛卯，册拜太子妃。
translation: 
The palace maids stuck bamboo leaves on the door and sprinkled salt juice on the ground to attract Emperor Wu's sheep cart.
However, Hu Fang was favored the most, and almost had the favor of a special house. Her service and clothing were second only to the queen.
Emperor Wu once played a pu-waving game with her, competing for arrows, and scratched Emperor Wu's finger.
Emperor Wu said angrily: This must be the descendant of the general!
Hu Fang replied: "I conquered Gongsun in the north and fought against Zhuge in the west. What are the descendants of generals other than generals?"
Emperor Wu looked ashamed.
Hu Fang gave birth to Princess Wu'an.
Mrs. Zhuge's name was Zhuge Wan, and she was from Langxieyangdu.
His father, Zhuge Chong, whose courtesy name was Maochang, served as Tingweiqing.
Zhuge Wan entered the palace in the spring of the ninth year of Taishi. Emperor Wu went to the front hall in person and ordered envoys Chijie and Luoyang to order Sima Zhaoxuan to worship Zhuge Wan as his wife.
The wife's brother Zhuge Quan, whose courtesy name is Delin, serves as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
His younger brother Zhuge Mei, named Renlin, served as Shizhong and Yushi Zhongcheng.
Zhuge Mei's wife's younger brother, Zhou Mu, was the uncle of Sima Tan, the king of Qinghe.
In the early years of Yongjia, Zhou Mu and Zhuge Mei persuaded Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, to depose Emperor Huai of Jin and replace him with Sima Tan, but Sima Yue refused.
After repeated persuasion, Sima became even more angry and killed Zhuge Mei and Zhou Mu.
Before execution, Zhuge Mei said to Zhou Mu: What should I tell you?
Zhou Mu said: What more can be said now.
Only then did people realize that the plan came from Zhou Mu and was not Zhuge Mei's original intention.
Queen Huijia was named Nanfeng, a native of Pingyang, and her nickname was Qing. There is another biography about his father, Jia Chong.
At first, Emperor Wu wanted to marry Wei Xuan's daughter for the crown prince. Empress Yuan listened to the persuasion of Mai and Guo's cronies and wanted to marry Mai.
Emperor Wu said: There are five things that are desirable about the daughter of Duke Wei, and there are five things that are undesirable about the daughter of Duke Jia.
The descendants of the Wei family are virtuous and have many children, and are beautiful in appearance and slender in stature.
Empress Yuan insisted on her request, and both Xunja and Xunxu praised Jia Chong's daughter for being virtuous, so they made an engagement.
At first, he wanted to marry Jia Wu, Empress Jia's sister. Jia Wu was twelve years old at the time, one year younger than the prince, and was too short to wear adult clothes.
So she married Nan Feng, who was fifteen years old at the time and two years older than the prince.
In the second month of the eighth year of Taishi (Xinmao), she was granted the title of Crown Princess.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
妒忌多权诈，太子畏而惑之，嫔御罕有进幸者。
帝常疑太子不慧，且朝臣和峤等多以为言，故欲试之。
尽召东宫大小官属，为设宴会，而密封疑事，使太子决之，停信待反。
妃大惧，倩外人作答。
答者多引古义。
给使张泓曰： 太子不学，而答诏引义，必责作草主，更益谴负。
不如直以意对。
妃大喜，语泓： 便为我好答，富贵与汝共之。
泓素有小才，具草，令太子自写。
帝省之，甚悦。
先示太子少傅卫瓘，瓘大踧，众人乃知瓘先有毁言，殿上皆称万岁。
充密遣语妃云： 卫瓘老奴，几破汝家。
妃性酷虐，尝手杀数人。
或以戟掷孕妾，子随刃堕地。
帝闻之，大怒，已修金墉城，将废之。
translation: 
She was jealous and cunning by nature, and the prince was both afraid of and beguiled by her. Few of the concubines were favored by the prince.
Emperor Wu often suspected that the prince was not smart, and officials in the court and Wei and others also made Zao a topic many times, so he wanted to test him.
All the officials from Shu Palace were summoned, a banquet was arranged, and a difficult matter was sealed, allowing the prince to make a decision, and the messenger stopped to wait for an answer.
Concubine Jia was very panicked and asked an outsider to answer for her.
Most of the people who responded quoted ancient meanings.
Zhang Hong, the envoy, said: The prince is not a good learner, but he can quote ancient meanings when answering Shao Shu. The Holy Emperor will definitely track down the person who answered on his behalf, and the punishment will be even more serious.
It's better to answer directly based on the meaning.
Concubine Jia was very happy and said to Zhang Hong: "Answer me well immediately. If I get rich in the future, I will share it with you."
Zhang Hong, who had always been a little talented, drew up a draft and asked the prince to copy it by himself.
Emperor Wu was very happy after seeing it.
First, he showed it to the prince's young master, Wei Cui. Wei Xuan was very uneasy. Only then did everyone realize that Wei Cui had said something dissatisfied with the prince before, and everyone in the palace shouted long live.
Jia Chong secretly sent someone to tell Concubine Jia: "This old guy Wei Cui almost destroyed our family."
Concubine Mai was very cruel by nature and had killed several people with her own hands.
Sometimes a pregnant concubine is killed with a halberd, and the fetus falls to the ground along with the halberd blade.
When Emperor Wu heard about this, he was very angry. He built Jinyong City and prepared to destroy it.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
充华赵粲从容言曰： 贾妃年少，妒是妇人之情耳，长自当差。
愿陛下察之。
其后杨珧亦为之言曰： 陛下忘贾公闾耶？
荀勖深救之，故得不废。
惠帝即位，立为皇后，生河东、临海、始平公主、哀献皇女。
后暴戾日甚。
侍中贾模，后之族兄，右卫郭彰，后之从舅，并以才望居位，与楚王玮、东安公繇分掌朝政。
后母广城君养孙贾谧干预国事，权侔人主。
繇密欲废后，贾氏惮之。
及太宰亮、卫瓘等表繇徙带方，夺楚王中候，后知玮怨之，乃使帝作密诏令玮诛瓘、亮，以报宿憾。
模知后凶暴，恐祸及己，乃与裴頠、王衍谋废之，衍悔而谋寝。
后遂荒淫放恣，与太医令程据等乱彰内外。
translation: 
The female officer Tac Can said calmly: Concubine Jia is young, and jealousy is a normal thing for women. She will get better when she gets older.
I hope your Majesty will understand.
Later, Yang Yao also interceded for the purchase of the concubine and said: Did your Majesty forget to buy a public apartment?
Xun Xu also rescued him vigorously, so he was not destroyed.
After Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he became the queen and gave birth to three princesses, Hedong, Linhai and Shiping, and Princess Aixian.
Empress Jia became more and more violent day by day.
The servant Jia Mo is the queen's clan brother, and the right guard Guo Zhang is the queen's uncle and uncle. They all hold high positions due to their talent and reputation, and share the power of the court with Sima Zhang, King of Chu, and Ma Yao of Shu'an Company.
The adopted grandson of the Queen's mother, Lord Guangcheng, Jia Mi, intervened in state affairs and had as much power as the emperor.
Sima Yao conspired to depose the Queen, and Queen Jia was very afraid of him.
Dazai Sima Liang, Wei Cui and others impeached Sima Yao, causing him to move to Daifang and cut off the king of Chu's middle rank. The queen knew that King Chu Sima Zhang resented this, so she asked Emperor Hui to issue a secret edict ordering Sima Zhang to kill Wei Guan and Sima Liang to avenge the old feud.
Maimo knew that the queen was cruel and cruel, and was afraid that disaster would affect him, so he conspired with Pei Dun and Wang Yan to destroy her. The plan failed because Wang Yan regretted it.
The queen became even more dissolute and indulgent, and her promiscuous relationship with the imperial physician Ling Cheng Ju and others became famous both inside and outside the palace.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
洛南有盗尉部小吏，端丽美容止，既给厮役，忽有非常衣服，众咸疑其窃盗，尉嫌而辩之。
贾后疏亲欲求盗物，往听对辞。
小吏云： 先行逢一老妪，说家有疾病，师卜云宜得城南少年厌之，欲暂相烦，必有重报。
于是随去，上车下帷，内簏箱中，行可十馀里，过六七门限，开簏箱，忽见楼阙好屋。
问此是何处，云是天上，即以香汤见浴，好衣美食将入。
见一妇人，年可三十五六，短形青黑色，眉后有疵。
见留数夕，共寝欢宴。临出赠此众物。
听者闻其形状，知是贾后，惭笑而去，尉亦解意。
时他人入者多死，惟此小吏，以后爱之，得全而出。
及河东公主有疾，师巫以为宜施宽令，乃称诏大赦天下。
translation: 
There was a junior official in Luonan's thief department. He was a dignified, handsome and good-looking servant. He had always been a servant doing chores. Suddenly he had unusual clothes. Everyone suspected him of stealing. The senior officer was disgusted by this and questioned the junior official.
After the purchase, the distant relatives wanted these bribes, so they went to listen to the evidence.
The clerk said: I met an old woman while walking a few days ago. She said that someone in her family was sick. The wizard said that she should find a young man from the south of the city to ward off the disease. I would like to trouble you temporarily. I will definitely thank you very much.
So he followed her, got in the car, lowered the curtains, and hid it in a bamboo box. After walking for about ten miles, he encountered six or seven thresholds. When he opened the bamboo box, he saw only an exquisite pavilion room.
When asked where this place was, he was told that it was heaven. He immediately bathed in fragrant soup and brought in elegant clothes and fine food.
I saw a woman, about thirty-five or six years old, short in stature, with a black complexion and a blemish behind her eyebrows.
I was kept for a few nights, eating and sleeping with the woman, and when I came out they gave me these things.
When the listeners heard this and knew it was Empress Jia, they sneered in shame and left, and the lieutenant also dispelled his suspicions.
At that time, most of the other people who entered the palace were killed, but this little official was able to escape with his life because he liked him very much after the purchase.
It wasn't until Princess Hedong fell ill that the wizard thought a leniency order should be implemented, and then he issued an edict for amnesty.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
初，后诈有身，内稿物为产具，遂取妹夫韩寿子慰祖养之，托谅闇所生，故弗显。
遂谋废太子，以所养代立。
时洛中谣曰： 南风烈烈吹黄沙，遥望鲁国郁嵯峨，前至三月灭汝家。
后母广城君以后无子，甚敬重愍怀，每劝厉后，使加慈爱。
贾谧恃贵骄纵，不能推崇太子，广城君恆切责之，及广城君病笃，占术谓不宜封广城，乃改封宜城。
后出侍疾十余日，太子常往宜城第，将医出入，恂恂尽礼。
宜城临终执后手，令尽意于太子，言甚切至，又曰： 赵粲及午必乱汝事，我死后，勿复听入，深忆吾言。
后不能遵之，遂专制天下，威服内外。
更与粲、午专为奸谋，诬害太子，众恶彰著。
translation: 
At first, after buying it, he pretended to be pregnant and brought in items such as straw for production. Later, he brought Han Weizu, the son of his brother-in-law Han Shou, to raise him. He pretended that he was born when the emperor was in mourning, so it was not exposed.
So he planned to depose the prince and replace him with a child he raised.
At that time, a ballad in Luozhong sang: The south wind is blowing the yellow sand fiercely, and the Lu country is gloomy and craggy in the distance. Your home will be destroyed in three months.
The queen's mother, Lord Guangcheng, respected the prince Mianhuai very much because the queen had no son, and often advised the queen to show her kindness.
Mai Mi relied on his own favor to be arrogant and indulgent, and disrespected the prince. Lord Guangcheng always scolded him severely. When Lord Guangcheng became seriously ill, the divination result showed that it was not suitable to seal Guangcheng, so he changed the seal to Yicheng.
The queen went out of the palace to serve Lord Yicheng for more than ten days. The prince often went to Yicheng and led the doctors in and out, respectfully and politely.
Before he died, Lord Yicheng took the queen's hand and asked her to treat the prince wholeheartedly, with very sincere words. He also said: Zhao Can and Mai Wu will definitely disrupt your important affairs. After my death, do not let them enter the palace again. You must remember my words.
The queen did not follow these instructions, but acted alone and tyrannized the world, using her power to subdue the court and outside.
He further conspired with Tan Can and Mai Wu to frame the prince, which was an extremely sinful crime.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
初，诛杨骏及汝南王亮、太保卫瓘、楚王玮等，皆临机专断。宦人董猛参预其事。
猛，武帝时为寺人监，侍东宫，得亲信于后，预诛杨骏，封武安侯，猛三兄皆为亭侯，天下咸怨。
及太子废黜，赵王伦、孙秀等因众怨谋欲废后。
后数遣宫婢微服于人间视听，其谋颇泄。
后甚惧，遂害太子，以绝众望。
赵王伦乃率兵入宫，使翊军校尉齐王冏入殿废后。
后与冏母有隙，故伦使之。
后惊曰： 卿何为来！
冏曰： 有诏收后。
后曰： 诏当从我出，何诏也？
后至上閤，遥呼帝曰： 陛下有妇，使人废之，亦行自废。
又问冏曰： 起事者谁？
冏曰： 梁、赵。
后曰： 系狗当系颈，今反系其尾，何得不然！
translation: 
At the beginning, the killings of Yang Jun, King Sima Hao of Runan, Taibao Jun, Sima Zhang, King of Jian and others were done arbitrarily, and the eunuch Dong Meng also participated in this matter.
Dong Meng was an eunuch and served the prince during the reign of Emperor Wu. After buying Nabuo, he became a close confidant and participated in the murder of Yang Jun. He was named Wu'anhou. Dong Meng's three brothers were all named Tinghou, causing resentment in the world.
After the prince was deposed, Zhao Wang Sima Lun, Sun Xiu and others planned to depose Empress Jia due to public resentment.
Empress Jia sent many maids in the palace to spy on the people in disguise, and the conspiracy of King Zhao and others was quite exposed.
Empress Xuan was so frightened that she killed the prince in order to destroy the world.
Sima Lun, the king of Chu, led his troops into the palace, and asked Sima, the captain of the Yi military academy, and the king of Qi, to enter the palace and announce the dethronement of the queen.
The queen had a grudge against Sima Gang's mother, so Sima Lun sent him.
The queen asked in surprise: "What are you doing here?"
Sima Gang said: There is an edict ordering your arrest.
The queen said: The edict should be issued from my hand. What kind of edict is this?
The queen went to the upper pavilion and called Emperor Hui from a distance: "Your Majesty has a wife. If you let others destroy her, you will destroy yourself."
He also asked Sima Tong: Who is leading the uprising?
Sima Gang said: King Luan and King Tang.
The queen said: A dog should be tied by its neck, but now it is tied by its tail. How could it be different?


Chunk 31: 
original: 
至宫西，见谧尸，再举声而哭遽止。
伦乃矫诏遣尚书刘弘等持节赍金屑酒赐后死。
后在位十一年。
赵粲、贾午、韩寿、董猛等皆伏诛。
临海公主先封清河，洛阳之乱，为人所略，传卖吴兴钱温。
温以送女，女遇主甚酷。
元帝镇建鄴，主诣县自言。
元帝诛温及女，改封临海，宗正曹统尚之。
惠羊皇后，讳献容，泰山南城人。
祖瑾，父玄之，并见《外戚传》。
贾后既废，孙秀议立后。
后外祖孙旂与秀合族，又诸子自结于秀，故以太安元年立为皇后。
将入宫，衣中有火。
成都王颖伐长沙王乂，以讨玄之为名。
乂败，颖奏废后为庶人，处金墉城。
陈等唱伐成都王，大赦，复后位。
张方入洛，又废后。
方逼迁大驾幸长安，留台复后位。
永兴初，张方又废后。
河间王颙矫诏，以后屡为奸人所立，遣尚书田淑敕留台赐后死。
诏书累至，司隶校尉刘暾与尚书仆射荀籓、河南尹周馥驰上奏曰： 奉被手诏，伏读惶悴。
translation: 
When he arrived at the west side of the palace, he saw Jia Mi's body and burst into tears, but stopped after crying twice.
Sima Lun pretended that Liu Hong, the Minister of Shaoshu Sect, and others were holding talismans and sending gold chips and wine for purchase before committing suicide.
He reigned for eleven years after his purchase.
Zhao Can, Jia Wu, Han Shou, Dong Meng and others were all executed according to law.
Princess Linhai was first sealed in Qinghe. During the Luoyang Rebellion, she was kidnapped and sold to Qian Wen, a native of Wuxing.
Qian Wen gave the princess to his daughter, but his daughter abused the princess.
When Emperor Yuan was guarding Jianye, the princess went to the county to explain the situation.
Emperor Yuan killed Qian Wen and his daughter, changed the princess's title to Linhai, and married her to Zongzheng and Cao Tong.
Queen Huiyang's name was Xianrong, and she was from Nancheng, Mount Tai.
His grandfather Yang Jin and his father Yang Xuanzhi are both mentioned in "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
After the purchase was deposed, Sun Xiu proposed the idea of ​​establishing a queen.
Queen Sheep's maternal grandfather, Sun Zhan, was of the same clan as Sun Xiu, and each of her sons was befriended by Sun Xiu, so she was made queen in the first year of Tai'an.
When he was about to enter the palace, his clothes caught fire.
Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, attacked Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, in the name of conquering Yang Xuanzhi.
Sima Yi was defeated, and Sima Ying reported that Queen Feiyang was a commoner and settled in Jinyong City.
Chen Xi and others launched a crusade against the King of Chengdu, granted amnesty to the world, and restored the position of Queen Sheep.
After Zhang Fang entered Luoyang, he deposed the Yang Queen.
Zhang Fang forced Emperor Hui to move to Chang'an, and the officials who stayed in the capital restored Yang Queen as queen.
In the early years of Yongxing, Zhang Fang deposed Yang Jian again.
Sima Yi, the king of Hejian, forged an edict, believing that Queen Yang had been made queen by treacherous ministers many times. He sent Shangshu Tian Shu to order the officials who stayed in Kyoto to kill Queen Yang.
The edicts arrived one after another. Liu Tun, the captain of the Sili school, She Xunfan, the minister's servant, and Yin Zhoufu of Henan Province rushed to report: "I received it in my hand, and I was very frightened after reading it."


Chunk 32: 
original: 
臣按古今书籍，亡国破家，毁丧宗祊，皆由犯众违人之所致也。
陛下迁幸，旧京廓然，众庶悠悠，罔所依倚。
家有跂踵之心，人想銮舆之声，思望大德，释兵归农。而兵缠不解，处处互起，岂非善者不至，人情猜隔故耶！
今上官巳犯阙称兵，焚烧宫省，百姓喧骇，宜镇之以静。
而大使卒至，赫然执药，当诣金墉，内外震动，谓非圣意。
羊庶人门户残破，废放空宫，门禁峻密，若绝天地，无缘得与奸人构乱。
众无智愚，皆谓不然，刑书猥至，罪不值辜，人心一愤，易致兴动。
夫杀一人而天下喜悦者，宗庙社稷之福也。
今杀一枯穷之人而令天下伤惨，臣惧凶竖乘间，妄生变故。
臣忝司京辇，观察众心，实以深忧，宜当含忍。
不胜所见，谨密启闻。
愿陛下更深与太宰参详，勿令远近疑惑，取谤天下。
translation: 
I believe that in ancient and modern books, all the ruins of countries and families and the destruction of ancestral temples were caused by violating the wishes of everyone.
His Majesty moved to the new palace, but the old capital was lonely and empty. Everyone was sad and had no one to rely on.
Every family is looking forward to it, everyone is hoping for a big favor, a truce and return to farming. However, there are constant battles and wars everywhere. Isn't this because the wise men have not yet arrived and people are suspicious?
Now Shangguan has invaded and burned down the palace. The people are panicking and should be calmed down.
However, the ambassador suddenly arrived, openly holding poison in his hand and preparing to deliver it to Jin Yongji. There was great shock inside and outside the palace, and everyone said that this was not the emperor's intention.
The sheep common people had their families broken up and their families were destroyed. They were abandoned and left alone in an empty palace. The gates were tightly guarded and they seemed to be cut off from heaven and earth. It was impossible for them to cause trouble with the deceitful people.
Everyone agrees that this shouldn't be the case. Punishment letters come one after another, but the crime is not serious enough to warrant death. People's hearts are temporarily agitated, which can easily lead to chaos.
If one person is killed and everyone in the world is happy, it is a blessing for the ancestral temple and the country.
Now I have made the world sad by killing a poor and hopeless man in vain. I am worried that the treacherous ministers will take advantage of this opportunity and seize the opportunity to cause chaos.
I stayed in the capital to observe the people's sentiments. I was indeed very worried and felt that some tolerance should be tolerated.
This is my opinion, proceed with caution.
I hope that your majesty will have a detailed review with Dazai again, so as not to cause doubts among people near and far and cause resentment in the world.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
颙见表大怒，乃遣陈颜、吕朗东收暾。
暾奔青州，后遂得免，帝还洛，迎后复位。
后洛阳令何乔又废后。
及张方首至，其日复后位。
会帝崩，后虑太弟立为嫂叔，不得称太后，催前太子清河王覃入，将立之，不果。
怀帝即位，尊后为惠帝皇后，居弘训宫。
洛阳败，没于刘曜。
曜僭位，以为皇后。
因问曰： 吾何如司马家兒？
后曰： 胡可并言？
陛下开基之圣主，彼亡国之暗夫，有一妇一子及身三耳，不能庇之，贵为帝王，而妻子辱于凡庶之手。遣妾尔时实不思生，何图复有今日。
妾生于高门，常谓世间男子皆然。
自奉巾栉以来，始知天下有丈夫耳。
translation: 
Sima Yi was very angry after seeing the memorial, so he sent Chen Yan and Lu Langdong to arrest Liu Tun.
Liu Tun fled to Qingzhou, and Queen Yang was able to avoid death. Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang, welcomed back the sheep, and resumed his post.
Later, Luoyang ordered He Qiao to depose the Sheep Queen.
On the day Zhang Fang's head was delivered, she was restored to the position of queen.
When Emperor Hui died, the queen was worried that her brother-in-law would become uncle and sister-in-law after succeeding to the throne, and she would not be able to be called the queen mother, so she urged the former prince Sima Tan, King of Qinghe, to enter the capital and prepare to establish himself as emperor, but failed.
After Emperor Huai ascended the throne, he honored Queen Sheep as Queen Hui and let her live in Hongxun Palace.
Luoyang was defeated and the queen fell into Liu Yao's hands.
Liu Yao arrogantly proclaimed himself emperor and made the Sheep Queen his queen.
He once asked: How am I compared to the boys from the Sima family?
The queen said: How can they be compared?
Your Majesty is the holy master who founded the business, but he is a foolish man who has subjugated his country. He only has a wife, a son and himself, and he cannot protect him. I was honored as an emperor, but my wife and children were humiliated at the hands of ordinary people. I really didn't want to live anymore at that time, and I never imagined that I would still be here today.
I was born into a noble family and often thought that all men in the world were like that.
Since I became your wife, I have known that there are men in the world.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
曜甚爱宠之，生曜二子而死，伪谥献文皇后。
谢夫人，名玖。
家本贫贱，父以屠羊为业，玖清惠贞正而有淑姿，选入后庭为才人。
惠帝在东宫，将纳妃。
武帝虑太子尚幼，未知帷房之事，乃遣往东宫侍寝，由是得幸有身。
贾后妒忌之，玖求还西宫，遂生愍怀太子，年三四岁，惠帝不知也。
入朝，见愍怀与诸皇子共戏，执其手，武帝曰： 是汝兒也。
及立为太子，拜玖为淑媛。
贾后不听太子与玖相见，处之一室。
及愍怀遇酷，玖亦被害焉。
永康初，诏改葬太子，因赠玖夫人印绶，葬显平陵。
怀王皇太后，讳媛姬，不知所出。
初入武帝宫，拜中才人，早卒。
怀帝即位，追尊曰皇太后。
元夏侯太妃，名光姬，沛国谯人也。
祖威，兗州刺史。
父庄，字仲容，淮南太守、清明亭侯。
妃生自华宗，幼而明慧。
translation: 
Liu Yao doted on her very much. After giving birth to Liu Yao's two sons, she died and Mi was made Queen Xianwen.
Mrs. Xie’s name is Xie Jiu.
The family was originally very poor, and his father made a living by killing sheep. Xie Jiu is pure, virtuous, upright and beautiful, and was selected into the harem as a talented person.
When Emperor Hui was in the Cambodian palace, he was preparing to accept a concubine.
Emperor Wu was worried that the prince was young and did not understand the affairs of the boudoir, so he sent Xie Jiu to serve in Shu Palace, and she was lucky to be pregnant.
After buying her, Xie Jiu was jealous of her and asked to return to the West Palace. She gave birth to Prince Minhuai, who was three or four years old, but Emperor Hui didn't know it yet.
When he entered the court, he saw Minhuai playing with the princes and took his hand. Emperor Wu said: "This is your son."
After being established as the prince, Xie Jiu was granted the title Shuyuan.
Empress Jia did not allow the prince to see Xie Jiu and kept her alone in a room.
Feeling sorry for the misfortune of the prince. Xie Jiu was also killed.
In the early years of Yongkang, an edict was issued to rebury the prince, so he posthumously presented Mrs. Xie Jiu with a seal ribbon and buried him in the Xianping Mausoleum.
The Empress Dowager of King Huai was named Xie Tan, but her life experience was unknown.
He was selected into Emperor Wu's harem as a talented person and died very young.
After Emperor Huai ascended the throne, he was posthumously named the Empress Dowager.
The concubine of the Marquis of Yuanxia was named Guangji, and she was from Qiao, the state of Pei.
His grandfather Xia Houwei once served as the governor of Yanzhou.
His father, Xiahouzhuang, whose courtesy name was Zhongrong, served as the prefect of Huainan and the Tinghou of Qingming.
The concubine was born into a noble family and has been smart and virtuous since she was a child.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
琅邪武王为世子觐纳焉，生元帝。
及恭王薨，元帝嗣立，称王太妃。
永嘉元年，薨于江左，葬琅邪国。
初有谶云 铜马入海建鄴期， 太妃小字铜环，而元帝中兴于江左焉。
translation: 
King Langye Wu married his eldest son Sima Jinna and gave birth to Emperor Yuan.
When Prince Gong died, Emperor Yuan made her the emperor, and she was called Princess Wang.
In the first year of Yongjia, he died in Jiangzuo and was buried in Langye Kingdom.
There was a prophecy at the time that the bronze horse entered the sea during the period of Jianye. The concubine's nickname was Tonghuan, and it was in Jiangzuo that Emperor Yuan was resurrected.


