Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
朝鲜王满者，故燕人也。
自始全燕时尝略属真番、朝鲜，为置吏，筑鄣塞。
秦灭燕，属辽东外徼。
汉兴，为其远难守，复修辽东故塞，至浿水为界，属燕。
燕王卢绾反，入匈奴，满亡命，聚党千馀人，魋结蛮夷服而东走出塞，渡浿水，居秦故空地上下鄣，稍役属真番、朝鲜蛮夷及故燕、齐亡命者王之，都王险。
会孝惠、高后时天下初定，辽东太守即约满为外臣，保塞外蛮夷，无使盗边；诸蛮夷君长欲入见天子，勿得禁止。
以闻，上许之，以故满得兵威财物侵降其旁小邑，真番、临屯皆来服属，方数千里。
传子至孙右渠，所诱汉亡人滋多，又未尝入见；真番旁众国欲上书见天子，又拥阏不通。
元封二年，汉使涉何谯谕右渠，终不肯奉诏。
何去至界上，临浿水，使御刺杀送何者朝鲜裨王长，即渡，驰入塞，遂归报天子曰 杀朝鲜将 。
上为其名美，即不诘，拜何为辽东东部都尉。
朝鲜怨何，发兵袭攻杀何。
天子募罪人击朝鲜。
其秋，遣楼船将军杨仆从齐浮渤海；兵五万人，左将军荀彘出辽东：讨右渠。
右渠发兵距险。
左将军卒正多率辽东兵先纵，败散，多还走，坐法斩。
楼船将军将齐兵七千人先至王险。
右渠城守，窥知楼船军少，即出城击楼船，楼船军败散走。
translation: 
King Weiman of North Korea was originally from the state of Yan.
Initially, when the Yan Kingdom was in its heyday, it conquered Zhenfan and North Korea, made them belong to the Yan Kingdom, appointed officials for them, and built defensive castles at the border fortresses.
Later, the Qin State destroyed the Yan State, and North Korea became a border country outside Liaodong County.
After the founding of the Han Dynasty, because North Korea was far away and difficult to defend, the previous passes in Liaodong County were renovated until they were bounded by the Xishui River, which was under the jurisdiction of the State of Yan.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled and went to the Huns. Weiman also went into exile, gathered more than a thousand of his companions, wore cone-shaped buns and barbarian clothes, walked out of the Great Wall in the east, crossed the Xu River, and lived in the original empty land of Qin called Shangxiazhang.
During the time of Emperor Hui and Queen Gao of the Han Dynasty, when the world had just stabilized, the governor of Liaodong County agreed that Wei Man would be the foreign minister of the Han Dynasty to protect the barbarians outside the border fortresses and not allow them to come to the border to harass and plunder. The barbarian leaders wanted to see the emperor from the Han Dynasty and did not prohibit it.
The governor of Liaodong reported this situation to the emperor, who agreed to the condition. Therefore, Weiman was able to use his military power and wealth to invade and surrender the small countries around him. Zhenfan and Lintun both surrendered and belonged to Weiman. The area under his control was thousands of miles in radius.
Weiman passed the rule to his son, and then to his grandson Youqu. During this period, more and more refugees from the Han Dynasty were lured to North Korea, and Youqu never went to see the emperor of the Han Dynasty. Many small countries around Zhenfan wanted to submit letters requesting an audience with the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, but were blocked from letting the Emperor know about their request.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent He He to blame and inform Youqu, but Youqu refused to accept the Han Dynasty's edict.
Shehe left North Korea and came to the border. Facing the Xu River, he sent a driver to assassinate the North Korean Pi Xiaowang who was escorting Shehe. Then he immediately crossed the river, galloped back, and entered the Han Dynasty border fortress. So he returned to the capital and reported to the emperor: I killed a North Korean general.
The emperor believed that he had a good reputation for killing Korean generals, so he no longer pursued his fault, but awarded him the official position of captain of eastern Liaodong.
North Korea resented Shehe and dispatched troops to make a surprise attack and killed Shehe.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty ordered the recruitment of prisoners whose crimes had been pardoned to attack North Korea.
In the autumn of the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent general Yang Pu of Louzhou to cross the Bohai Sea by boat with an army of 50,000 people. General Xunshe of the left led his troops out of Liaodong County to attack Youqu.
Youqu mobilized troops to defend strategic locations to resist the Han army.
General Zuo's pawn named Duo was the first to lead the Liaodong troops to attack the enemy. As a result, the team failed and became separated. Most of them ran back and were executed for violating military law.
General Lou Chuan led 7,000 soldiers from Qi to arrive at Wangxian City first.
Youqu was guarding the city and heard the news that General Lou Chuan's army was small, so he went out to attack General Lou Chuan. General Lou Chuan's army failed and fled in all directions.
summary:
King Weiman of North Korea, originally from the state of Yan, settled in the empty region of Shangxiazhang after Yan's fall and Lu Wan's rebellion. During the reigns of Emperor Hui and Queen Gao of Han, the Liaodong governor appointed Weiman as a foreign minister to protect border barbarians, allowing him to use military power to subdue nearby states like Zhenfan and Lintun, expanding his territory. Weiman's rule passed to his son and grandson Youqu, who lured Han refugees and blocked smaller states from contacting the Han emperor. In the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han sent Shehe to reprimand Youqu, but Youqu rejected the edict. Shehe assassinated a Korean general on his return, earning a promotion but provoking a Korean attack that killed him. The Han emperor then recruited pardoned prisoners to attack Korea. In autumn, General Yang Pu led 50,000 troops by sea, while General Xun She led forces from Liaodong. Youqu defended strategic points. Yang Pu's initial assault on Wangxian City failed, and his army scattered. Xun She also failed to break through Korean defenses.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
将军杨仆失其众，遁山中十馀日，稍求收散卒，复聚。
左将军击朝鲜浿水西军，未能破自前。
天子为两将未有利，乃使卫山因兵威往谕右渠。
右渠见使者顿首谢： 原降，恐两将诈杀臣；今见信节，请服降。
遣太子入谢，献马五千匹，及馈军粮。
人众万馀，持兵，方渡浿水，使者及左将军疑其为变，谓太子已服降，宜命人毋持兵。
太子亦疑使者左将军诈杀之，遂不渡浿水，复引归。
山还报天子，天子诛山。
左将军破浿水上军，乃前，至城下，围其西北。
楼船亦往会，居城南。
右渠遂坚守城，数月未能下。
左将军素侍中，幸，将燕代卒，悍，乘胜，军多骄。
楼船将齐卒，入海，固已多败亡；其先与右渠战，因辱亡卒，卒皆恐，将心惭，其围右渠，常持和节。
左将军急击之，朝鲜大臣乃阴间使人私约降楼船，往来言，尚未肯决。
左将军数与楼船期战，楼船欲急就其约，不会；左将军亦使人求间郤降下朝鲜，朝鲜不肯，心附楼船：以故两将不相能。
左将军心意楼船前有失军罪，今与朝鲜私善而又不降，疑其有反计，未敢发。
天子曰将率不能，前使卫山谕降右渠，右渠遣太子，山使不能剸决，与左将军计相误，卒沮约。
今两将围城，又乖异，以故久不决。
translation: 
General Yang Pu lost his army and fled to the mountains to hide for more than ten days. He gradually recovered his scattered soldiers and reunited them.
General Xun Shen of the left attacked the Korean army stationed west of the Xu River, but failed to break through the enemy from the front.
Because the two generals failed to achieve military victory, the emperor sent Weishan to use his military prowess to tell Youqu clearly.
Youqu met with the Han Dynasty envoy and kowtowed to apologize: I am willing to surrender, but I am afraid that Generals Yang and Xun will kill me through deception. Now that I see the symbol of integrity, please allow us to surrender.
Youqu then sent the prince to the Han Dynasty to apologize, offering five thousand horses, and also presented military rations to the Han army in Korea.
There were more than 10,000 Korean people with weapons in their hands, and they were about to cross the Xu River. The envoy and General Zuo suspected that the Koreans had rebelled, and said that the prince had surrendered and submitted, and they should order the people not to carry weapons.
The prince also suspected that the Han envoys and General Zuo wanted to deceive and kill him, so he stopped crossing the river and led the Korean people back.
Weishan returned to the capital and reported to the emperor, who killed Weishan.
General Zuo defeated the North Korean army on the Haishui River and then advanced until he reached the foot of Wangxian City and surrounded the northwest of the city.
General Lou Chuan also went to join forces and garrisoned in the south of the city.
Youqu then held on to Wangxian City. Several months passed, but the Han army failed to capture Wangxian City.
General Zuo has always served the emperor in the palace and is favored. He led soldiers from Yan and Dai who were very fierce and took advantage of the opportunity to win the battle. Most of the soldiers in the army were very proud.
General Lou Chuan led his troops to cross the sea to fight, and there were many casualties in the battle. When they fought against Youqu, they suffered difficulties and humiliation, and suffered many casualties. The soldiers were frightened, and the generals felt ashamed in their hearts. When they surrounded You Can, General Lou Chuan often held peace talismans.
General Zuo tried his best to attack the enemy city, and the North Korean ministers secretly sought an opportunity to contact General Lou Chuan to discuss North Korea's surrender. The two sides exchanged talks, but no decision had been made.
General Zuo repeatedly agreed with General Lou Chuan on the date of simultaneous attacks. General Lou Chuan wanted to reach a reduction in the treaty with North Korea as soon as possible, so he did not send troops to join General Zuo. General Zuo also sent people to look for opportunities for North Korea to surrender. North Korea refused to surrender to General Zuo, but wanted to surrender to General Louchuan. Therefore, the two generals cannot coordinate with each other to fight the enemy together.
General Zuo thought about General Lou Chuan's fault for losing the battle in the past. Now he was secretly friendly with the North Korean minister, but North Korea refused to surrender, so he suspected that General Lou Chuan had a rebellion conspiracy, but he did not dare to take action.
The emperor said that the general was incompetent. Not long ago, I sent Weishan to tell Youqu to surrender. Youqu sent the prince to apologize, but Weishan, the messenger, could not handle the matter decisively and made mistakes in his plans with General Zuo, which finally broke the agreement of North Korea's surrender.
Now the two generals are besieging Wangxian City, but they are contradicting each other and cannot act in unison, so the problem cannot be solved for a long time.
summary:
The emperor sent Weishan to negotiate, and Youqu agreed to surrender, sending his prince with tribute. However, suspicions arose between the Han envoys and the Korean prince, leading to a breakdown. Weishan was executed for mishandling the situation. Xun She then defeated the Korean army at Haishui River and besieged Wangxian City, joined by Yang Pu. The two generals disagreed on strategy: Xun She favored aggressive attack, while Yang Pu sought peaceful surrender. This discord prolonged the siege.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
使济南太守公孙遂往之，有便宜得以从事。
遂至，左将军曰： 朝鲜当下久矣，不下者有状。
言楼船数期不会，具以素所意告遂，曰： 今如此不取，恐为大害，非独楼船，又且与朝鲜共灭吾军。
遂亦以为然，而以节召楼船将军入左将军营计事，即命左将军麾下执捕楼船将军，并其军，以报天子。
天子诛遂。
左将军已并两军，即急击朝鲜。
朝鲜相路人、相韩阴、尼谿相参、将军王夹相与谋曰： 始欲降楼船，楼船今执，独左将军并将，战益急，恐不能与，王又不肯降。
阴、唊、路人皆亡降汉。
路人道死。
元封三年夏，尼谿相参乃使人杀朝鲜王右渠来降。
王险城未下，故右渠之大臣成巳又反，复攻吏。
左将军使右渠子长降、相路人之子最告谕其民，诛成巳，以故遂定朝鲜，为四郡。
封参为澅清侯，阴为荻苴侯，唊为平州侯，长为几侯。
最以父死颇有功，为温阳侯。
左将军徵至，坐争功相嫉，乖计，弃市。
楼船将军亦坐兵至洌口，当待左将军，擅先纵，失亡多，当诛，赎为庶人。
太史公曰：右渠负固，国以绝祀。
涉何诬功，为兵发首。
楼船将狭，及难离咎。
悔失番禺，乃反见疑。
荀彘争劳，与遂皆诛。
两军俱辱，将率莫侯矣。
translation: 
Gongsun Sui, the governor of Jinan, was sent to correct their mistakes. If there is a convenient and favorable opportunity, he can handle the affairs on his own at any time.
After Gongsun Sui arrived in North Korea, General Zuo said: North Korea could have been captured long ago. There is a reason why it has not been captured yet.
He also told Gongsun Sui that he had agreed with General Lou Chuan on the date of march, but General Lou Chuan did not come to join forces. He also told Gongsun Sui that he had always suspected General Lou Chuan of treason, and said, "If we don't arrest him now, I'm afraid it will be a big harm. Not only will General Lou Chuan rebel, but he will also unite with North Korea to destroy our army."
Gongsun Sui also thought that this was the case, so he used the talisman to summon General Lou Chuan to General Zuo's camp to discuss the matter. He ordered General Zuo's men to capture General Lou Chuan on the spot, merge his troops under General Zuo, and then reported the incident to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
The emperor killed Gongsun Sui.
General Zuo merged the two armies and tried his best to attack North Korea.
Korean Prime Minister Lu Ren, Prime Minister Han Yin, Prime Minister Nixi, and General Wang Xi discussed with each other: At first, General Lou Chuan was wanted to surrender, but now General Lou Chuan has been arrested, and only General Zuo leads the combined army. The war is becoming more and more urgent. We may not be able to persist, and the king refuses to surrender.
Han Yin, Wang Yi, and passers-by all fled to the Han army and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Passers-by died on the road.
In the summer of the third year of Yuanfeng, Nixi Xiangcan sent people to kill the Korean king Youqu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Before Wang Xiancheng was captured, Cheng Si, the former minister of Youqu, rebelled again and attacked the Korean officials who did not rebel with him.
General Zuo sent Youqu's son Changjian and Xiangluren's son Lu Zui to tell the Korean people clearly that they would kill him. Therefore, the Han Dynasty finally pacified Korea and established four counties.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty granted Shen the title of Marquis of Qingqing, Han Yin as the Marquis of Diju, Wang Xi as the Marquis of Pingzhou, and Chang demoted them to Jihou.
Lu Zui was named Marquis of Wenyang because of his meritorious service after his father died.
General Zuo was recalled to the capital. He committed the crime of competing for merit, becoming jealous of each other, and violating the battle plan, and was publicly executed.
General Lou Chuan was also sentenced to death because he committed the crime of attacking the enemy first without authorization when his troops arrived at Lukou. He should have waited for General Zuo, resulting in many casualties. He atone for his crime with money, was exempted from the death penalty, and became a civilian.
Tai Shigong said: King Youqu of Korea relied on the rugged terrain and the country was wiped out.
She He's deception to gain credit became the beginning of sending troops to attack North Korea.
General Lou Chuan acts with a narrow mind and suffers disaster when in danger.
I regretted that I had failed in the capture of Panyu, but was suspected of rebelling.
Xun Zhen and Gong Sun Sui were both beheaded as they fought for merit.
The two armies of Yang Pu and Xun Shen who conquered Korea suffered humiliation, and the generals were not granted the title of marquis.
summary:
The emperor sent Gongsun Sui to mediate, but Xun She convinced him to arrest Yang Pu on suspicion of treason. Gongsun Sui complied, but the emperor later executed him. Xun She merged the armies and intensified the attack. Korean officials, fearing defeat, killed King Youqu and surrendered. The Han established four counties, granting titles to defectors. Xun She was executed for rivalry and violating battle plans, while Yang Pu was reduced to civilian status after paying a fine. The historian notes that Korea's reliance on terrain led to its fall, and the generals' conflicts caused their downfall.

