Chunk 0: 
original: 
留侯张良者，其先韩人也。
大父开地，相韩昭侯、宣惠王、襄哀王。
父平，相釐王、悼惠王。
悼惠王二十三年，平卒。
卒二十岁，秦灭韩。
良年少，未宦事韩。
韩破，良家僮三百人，弟死不葬，悉以家财求客刺秦王，为韩报仇，以大父、父五世相韩故。
良尝学礼淮阳。东见仓海君。
得力士，为铁椎重百二十斤。
秦皇帝东游，良与客狙击秦皇帝博浪沙中，误中副车。
秦皇帝大怒，大索天下，求贼甚急，为张良故也。
良乃更名姓，亡匿下邳。
良尝间从容步游下邳圯上，有一老父，衣褐，至良所，直堕其履圯下，顾谓良曰： 孺子，下取履！
良鄂然，欲殴之。为其老，彊忍，下取履。
父曰： 履我！
良业为取履，因长跪履之。
translation: 
Liu Hou Zhang Liang, his ancestors were Koreans.
His grandfather served as the prime minister of Han Zhaohou, King Xuanhui and King Xiangai in Kaidi.
His father, Zhang Ping, served as prime minister to King Li and King Tuohui.
In the twenty-third year of King Hui's reign, his father Zhang Ping passed away.
Twenty years after Zhang Liang's father died, the Qin State destroyed South Korea.
Zhang Liang was young at the time and had not been an official in Korea.
After the fall of Korea, Zhang Liang's family had 300 servants. When Zhang Liang's younger brother died, he was not buried well. He used all his property to find warriors to assassinate the King of Qin and avenge Korea. This was because his grandfather and father had served as the kings of Korea for five generations.
Zhang Liang once studied etiquette in Huaiyang and went to the East to meet Lord Canghai.
He found a strong man and made a hammer weighing 120 kilograms.
Qin Shihuang went on a tour to the East. Zhang Liang and Hercules attacked Qin Shihuang at Bolangsha, and accidentally hit the auxiliary car.
Qin Shihuang was furious and launched a massive search across the country, hoping to catch the assassin quickly. This was exactly what Zhang Liang had caused.
Zhang Liang then changed his name and surname, fled to Xiapi and hid.
Zhang Liang was wandering on the Xiapi Bridge in his spare time. He met an old man wearing coarse clothes. He walked up to Zhang Liang and deliberately threw his shoes under the bridge. He looked at Zhang Liang and said to him: Boy, go down and pick up the shoes!
Zhang Liang was a little surprised and wanted to beat him, but seeing that he was old, he reluctantly endured it and went down to pick up the shoes.
The old man said: Put on my shoes!
Since Zhang Liang had picked up the shoes for him, he knelt down and put them on for him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
父以足受，笑而去。
良殊大惊，随目之。
父去里所，复还，曰： 孺子可教矣。
後五日平明，与我会此。 良因怪之，跪曰： 诺。
五日平明，良往。
父已先在，怒曰： 与老人期，後，何也？
去，曰： 後五日早会。
五日鸡鸣，良往。
父又先在，复怒曰： 後，何也？
去，曰： 後五日复早来。
五日，良夜未半往。
有顷，父亦来，喜曰： 当如是。
出一编书，曰： 读此则为王者师矣。
後十年兴。
十三年孺子见我济北，穀城山下黄石即我矣。
遂去，无他言，不复见。
旦日视其书，乃太公兵法也。
良因异之，常习诵读之。
居下邳，为任侠。
项伯尝杀人，从良匿。
後十年，陈涉等起兵，良亦聚少年百馀人。
景驹自立为楚假王，在留。
translation: 
The old man stretched out his feet and put on his shoes, smiled and left.
Zhang Liang was very surprised and followed the old man's figure and stared at him.
The old man left for about a mile, then returned and said, "You, my boy, can teach."
Meet me here at dawn five days later. Zhang Liang thought this was strange, knelt down and said, "Yeah."
At dawn five days later, Zhang Liang went there.
The old man was already there first and said angrily: "I date an old man, but I arrive late. Why?"
The old man left and said: Come and meet early in five days.
Five days later, when the rooster crows, Zhang Liang goes.
The old man was there first and said angrily: "I'm late again. Why is this?"
The old man left and said: Come back early in five days.
Five days later, Zhang Liang left before midnight.
After a while, the old man also came and said happily: It should be like this.
The old man took out a book and said: After reading this book, you can become the emperor's teacher.
There will definitely be some development in ten years.
Thirteen years later, when your boy comes to Jibei to meet me, the yellow stone at the foot of Gucheng Mountain will be me.
After saying that, he left without leaving anything else, and he never saw the old man again.
At dawn, I looked at the book given by the old man and found it was "Tai Gong's Art of War".
Zhang Liang felt that this book was extraordinary and often studied and recited it.
When Zhang Liang lived in Xiapi, he was a chivalrous and righteous man.
Xiang Bo once killed someone and hid with Zhang Liang.
Ten years later, Chen She and others rebelled against Qin, and Zhang Liang also gathered more than a hundred young people.
Jing Ju established himself as the acting King of Chu and stationed in Liu County.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
良欲往从之，道还沛公。
沛公将数千人，略地下邳西，遂属焉。
沛公拜良为厩将。
良数以太公兵法说沛公，沛公善之，常用其策。
良为他人言，皆不省。
良曰： 沛公殆天授。
故遂从之，不去见景驹。
及沛公之薛，见项梁。
项梁立楚怀王。
良乃说项梁曰： 君已立楚後，而韩诸公子横阳君成贤，可立为王，益树党。
项梁使良求韩成，立以为韩王。
以良为韩申徒，与韩王将千馀人西略韩地，得数城，秦辄复取之，往来为游兵颍川。
沛公之从雒阳南出轘辕，良引兵从沛公，下韩十馀城，击破杨熊军。
沛公乃令韩王成留守阳翟，与良俱南，攻下宛，西入武关。
沛公欲以兵二万人击秦峣下军，良说曰： 秦兵尚彊，未可轻。
translation: 
Zhang Liang planned to follow him, but met Pei Gong on the way.
Peigong led thousands of men to seize the area west of Xiapi, and Zhang Liang joined him.
Pei Gong appointed Zhang Liang as the stable general.
Zhang Liang offered suggestions to Pei Gong based on "Tai Gong's Art of War" many times. Pei Gong appreciated him and often adopted his strategies.
Zhang Liang taught "Tai Gong's Art of War" to others, but no one could understand it.
Zhang Liang said: Pei Gong was probably bestowed on earth by heaven.
So Zhang Liang followed Pei Gong instead of joining Jingju.
When Pei Gong arrived at Xuedi, he met with Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang supported King Huai of Chu.
Zhang Liang then persuaded Xiang Liang: "You have already supported the descendants of the King of Chu, and Han Cheng, Lord of Hengyang among the Korean princes, can be made king and increase the strength of his allies."
Xiang Liang sent Zhang Liang to find Han Cheng and made him king of Han.
Appointed Zhang Liang as the Situ of South Korea, and led more than a thousand people to the west to attack South Korea's original territory with the King of Han, and captured several cities. The Qin army soon recaptured them, and the Han army only conducted guerrilla operations in the Yingchuan area.
When Pei Gong passed through the Sheyuan Mountain south from Luoyang, Zhang Liang led his troops to follow Pei Gong, captured more than ten cities in Han, and defeated Yang Xiong's army.
Peigong then asked Han Wangcheng to stay in Yangzhai, and he and Zhang Liang went south to attack Wan County and westward into Wuguan.
Peigong wanted to attack Qin's army at Yaoguan with 20,000 troops. Zhang Liang advised: The Qin army is still very strong and should not be underestimated.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻其将屠者子，贾竖易动以利。
原沛公且留壁，使人先行，为五万人具食，益为张旗帜诸山上，为疑兵，令郦食其持重宝啗秦将。
秦将果畔，欲连和俱西袭咸阳，沛公欲听之。
良曰： 此独其将欲叛耳，恐士卒不从。
不从必危，不如因其解击之。
沛公乃引兵击秦军，大破之。
北至蓝田，再战，秦兵竟败。
遂至咸阳，秦王子婴降沛公。
沛公入秦宫，宫室帷帐狗马重宝妇女以千数，意欲留居之。
樊哙谏沛公出舍，沛公不听。
良曰： 夫秦为无道，故沛公得至此。
夫为天下除残贼，宜缟素为资。
今始入秦，即安其乐，此所谓 助桀为虐 。
translation: 
I heard that the guard at Yongguan was the son of a butcher, and it was easy for the philistines to lure him with profit.
He hoped that Pei Gong would stay in the camp for the time being and send people to prepare food for 50,000 people. He also hung more flags on the hills and ordered Li Shi to bring valuable treasures to lure the generals of the Qin army.
As expected, the generals of the Qin army rebelled and planned to join forces with Pei Gong to attack Xianyang westward. Pei Gong wanted to follow the Qin general's plan.
Zhang Liang said: This is just a rebellion by the general at Yaoguan. I am afraid that the soldiers under his command will not listen.
Disobedience of soldiers will definitely bring harm, so it is better to attack them while they are slack.
Peigong then led his troops to attack the Qin army and defeated the enemy.
Then they chased the defeated army to Lantian and fought for the second time. The Qin army finally collapsed.
Then Pei Gong arrived in Xianyang, and Qin Prince Ying surrendered to Pei Gong.
Pei Gong entered the Qin Palace. There were thousands of palaces, tents, dogs and horses, precious treasures, and beautiful women. Pei Gong's intention was to stay in the palace.
Fan Kuai advised Pei Gong to go out and live there, but Pei Gong refused to listen.
Zhang Liang said: The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and immoral, so Pei Gong was able to come here.
To eradicate cruel tyranny from the world, we should be honest and simple.
Now that we have just invaded the capital of Qin, we have to enjoy it in peace. This is what people say, "helping Jie to do harm."


Chunk 4: 
original: 
且 忠言逆耳利於行，毒药苦口利於病 ，愿沛公听樊哙言。
沛公乃还军霸上。
项羽至鸿门下，欲击沛公，项伯乃夜驰入沛公军，私见张良，欲与俱去。
良曰： 臣为韩王送沛公，今事有急，亡去不义。
乃具以语沛公。
沛公大惊，曰： 为将柰何？
良曰： 沛公诚欲倍项羽邪？
沛公曰： 鲰生教我距关无内诸侯，秦地可尽王，故听之。
良曰： 沛公自度能卻项羽乎？
沛公默然良久，曰： 固不能也。
今为柰何？ 良乃固要项伯。
项伯见沛公。
沛公与饮为寿，结宾婚。
令项伯具言沛公不敢倍项羽，所以距关者，备他盗也。
及见项羽後解，语在项羽事中。
汉元年正月，沛公为汉王，王巴蜀。
translation: 
Moreover, good advice is unpleasant to the ear but beneficial to action, and good medicine is bitter to the mouth and beneficial to the patient. I hope Pei Gong will listen to Fan Kuai's opinion.
Only then did Pei Gong return to his carriage and stop at Bashang.
Xiang Yu came to Hongmen and wanted to attack Pei Gong. Xiang Bo rushed to Pei Gong's camp overnight and met with Zhang Liang privately, hoping that Zhang Liang would leave with him.
Zhang Liang said: I am escorting Pei Gong on behalf of the King of Han. Now the situation is urgent and it is unethical to escape.
So he told Pei Gong everything.
Pei Gong was very surprised and said: "What will we do about this?"
Zhang Liang said: Does Pei Gong really want to betray Xiang Yu?
Pei Gong said: "The ignorant villain taught me to block Hangu Pass and prevent the princes from entering. He said that in this way the land of the Qin Dynasty could be completely controlled, so I followed this advice."
Zhang Liang said: Pei Gong thinks for himself, can he defeat Xiang Yu?
Pei Gong was silent for a while and then said, "It shouldn't be possible. What should we do now?"
Zhang Liang then firmly invited Xiang Bo to see Pei Gong.
Xiang Bo met with Pei Gong.
Pei Gong drank with Xiang Bo, toasted and blessed him, and married him.
Pei Gong asked Xiang Bo to explain to Xiang Yu in detail that Pei Gong did not dare to betray Xiang Yu. The reason why Pei Gong blocked Hangu Pass was to prevent other bandits.
After Pei Gong met with Xiang Yu, the two parties reached a reconciliation, which was recorded in "The Notes of Xiang Yu".
In the first month of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Peigong became the king of Han and ruled the Bashu region.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
汉王赐良金百溢，珠二斗，良具以献项伯。
汉王亦因令良厚遗项伯，使请汉中地。
项王乃许之，遂得汉中地。
汉王之国，良送至襃中，遣良归韩。
良因说汉王曰： 王何不烧绝所过栈道，示天下无还心，以固项王意。
乃使良还。
行，烧绝栈道。
良至韩，韩王成以良从汉王故，项王不遣成之国，从与俱东。
良说项王曰： 汉王烧绝栈道，无还心矣。
乃以齐王田荣反，书告项王。
项王以此无西忧汉心，而发兵北击齐。
项王竟不肯遣韩王，乃以为侯，又杀之彭城。
良亡，间行归汉王，汉王亦已还定三秦矣。
复以良为成信侯，从东击楚。
至彭城，汉败而还。
至下邑，汉王下马踞鞍而问曰： 吾欲捐关以东等弃之，谁可与共功者？
良进曰： 九江王黥布，楚枭将，与项王有郄；彭越与齐王田荣反梁地：此两人可急使。
而汉王之将独韩信可属大事，当一面。
translation: 
The king of Han rewarded Zhang Liang with a hundred yi of gold and two measures of pearls. Zhang Liang gave them all to Xiang Bo.
Therefore, the King of Han asked Zhang Lianghou to give Xiang Bo a gift, so that Xiang Bo asked King Xiang to allocate the Hanzhong area to him on his behalf.
King Xiang agreed to the request of the King of Han, and the King of Han obtained the Hanzhong area.
The King of Han went to Fengguo, Zhang Liang sent the King of Han to Baozhong, and the King of Han asked Zhang Liang to return to Korea.
Zhang Liang then advised the King of Han: "Why don't you burn down the plank road you pass by to express your determination not to come back to the world, so as to stabilize King Xiang's heart?"
The king of Han then asked Zhang Liang to return to Korea.
When the king of Han was marching, he burned down the plank road he passed.
Zhang Liang arrived in South Korea. Because Han Wangcheng asked Zhang Liang to follow the king of Han, King Xiang did not send Han Cheng to the feudal country, but asked him to follow him eastward.
Zhang Liang explained to King Xiang: The King of Han burned down the plank road and has no intention of returning.
Zhang Liang then wrote to King Xiang about the rebellion of King Tian Rong of Qi.
King Xiang no longer worried about the King of Han in the west, so he raised his troops north to attack Qi.
King Xiang still refused to send King Han back to Korea. Instead, he demoted King Han to the rank of Marquis and killed him in Pengcheng.
Zhang Liang fled and secretly returned to the King of Han by taking a small road. At this time, the King of Han had returned to his army to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
The king of Han also granted Zhang Liang the title of Marquis Chengxin and followed him eastward to conquer Chu.
When they arrived at Pengcheng, the Han army was defeated and returned.
When he arrived at Xiayi, the King of Han dismounted and leaned on the saddle and asked: I plan to give up some places east of Hanguguan and other places as rewards. Who can join me in making achievements?
Zhang Liang Jin said: King Yingbu of Jiujiang is a fierce general of Chu, and there is a barrier with King Xiang; Peng Yue and Qi King Tian Rong rebelled against Chu in Liang. These two are available immediately.
Among the generals of the King of Han, only Han Xin could be entrusted with important tasks and take charge alone.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
即欲捐之，捐之此三人，则楚可破也。
汉王乃遣随何说九江王布，而使人连彭越。
及魏王豹反，使韩信将兵击之，因举燕、代、齐、赵。
然卒破楚者，此三人力也。
张良多病，未尝特将也，常为画策，时时从汉王。
汉三年，项羽急围汉王荥阳，汉王恐忧，与郦食其谋桡楚权。
食其曰： 昔汤伐桀，封其後於杞。
武王伐纣，封其後於宋。
今秦失德弃义，侵伐诸侯社稷，灭六国之後，使无立锥之地。
陛下诚能复立六国後世，毕已受印，此其君臣百姓必皆戴陛下之德，莫不乡风慕义，原为臣妾。
德义已行，陛下南乡称霸，楚必敛衽而朝。 汉王曰： 善。
趣刻印，先生因行佩之矣。
translation: 
If you want to abandon these places and give them to these three people, then the Chu State can be defeated.
The king of Han then sent Sui He to lobby the king of Jiujiang for Yingbu, and also sent someone to contact Peng Yue.
When King Bao of Wei rebelled against the Han Dynasty, the King of Han sent Han Xin to lead his troops to attack him, and took advantage of the situation to capture the territories of Yan, Dai, Qi, Zhao and other countries.
It was the power of these three people that finally defeated Chu.
Zhang Liang was ill and never led an army independently. He always followed the King of Han as a minister who made suggestions.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu urgently besieged the King of Han in Xingyang. The King of Han was frightened and worried, and discussed with Li Shiqi to weaken the power of Chu.
Li Shiqi said: In the past, Shang Tang attacked Xia Jie and granted the descendants of Xia Dynasty to Qi State.
King Wu of Zhou attacked Shang Zhou and granted the descendants of the Shang Dynasty to the Song Dynasty.
Now the Qin Dynasty has lost its virtues, abandoned morality, invaded the princes and countries, and wiped out the descendants of the six countries, leaving them with no place to stand.
If your Majesty can really re-ennominate the descendants of the Six Kingdoms and make them all accept your Majesty's seal, then the monarchs, ministers and people of the Six Kingdoms will all be grateful to your Majesty for your kindness, and they will all obey and admire your Majesty's morality, and be willing to be your subjects.
With the implementation of kindness and morality, Your Majesty can face the south and dominate. The King of Chu will surely dress up and come to worship respectfully. The king of Han said: OK.
Hurry up and engrave the seal and take it to them while your husband is on this trip.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
食其未行，张良从外来谒。
汉王方食，曰： 子房前！
客有为我计桡楚权者。
其以郦生语告，曰： 於子房何如？ 良曰： 谁为陛下画此计者？
陛下事去矣。
汉王曰： 何哉？
张良对曰： 臣请藉前箸为大王筹之。
曰： 昔者汤伐桀而封其後於杞者，度能制桀之死命也。
今陛下能制项籍之死命乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可一也。
武王伐纣封其後於宋者，度能得纣之头也。
今陛下能得项籍之头乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可二也。
武王入殷，表商容之闾，释箕子之拘，封比干之墓。
今陛下能封圣人之墓，表贤者之闾，式智者之门乎？
translation: 
Li Shiqi had not yet left for his trip, and Zhang Liang came back from his trip to pay homage to the King of Han.
The King of Han happened to be eating and said: "Come forward Zhang Liang!"
Someone among the diners can help me make suggestions to weaken the Chu army.
So he told Zhang Liang what Li Shiqi had said, and asked Zhang Liang: "What do you think of this plan?" Zhang Liang said: Who planned this for Your Majesty?
If you really do this, His Majesty's great cause will be ruined.
The king of Han said: Why do you say that?
Zhang Liang replied: Please allow me to use the chopsticks in front of me to help the king plan the situation.
Zhang Liang continued: In the past, when Shang Tang attacked Bao Jie and divided the descendants of Xia in Qi, it was because he estimated that he could kill Xia Jie.
Can His Majesty be sure that Xiang Yu will be put to death now?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the first reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
In the past, King Wu defeated Zhou and enfeoffed the descendants of Shang in Song Dynasty because he thought he could get King Zhou's head.
Is Your Majesty now sure of getting Xiang Ji's head?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the second reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu entered the capital of the Shang Dynasty, commended Shang Rong at the gate where he lived, released the imprisoned Jizi, and rebuilt Bigan's tomb.
Can your majesty now rebuild the tombs of saints, commend them at the door of the virtuous, bow your head and press the wood in front of the cart to show respect to him at the door of the wise? The king of Han said: No.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
曰： 未能也。  其不可三也。
发钜桥之粟，散鹿台之钱，以赐贫穷。
今陛下能散府库以赐贫穷乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可四矣。
殷事已毕，偃革为轩，倒置干戈，覆以虎皮，以示天下不复用兵。
今陛下能偃武行文，不复用兵乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可五矣。
休马华山之阳，示以无所为。
今陛下能休马无所用乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可六矣。
放牛桃林之阴，以示不复输积。
今陛下能放牛不复输积乎？
曰： 未能也。
其不可七矣。
translation: 
Zhang Liang said: This is the third reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once distributed grain from the Juqiao warehouse and money from the Lutai treasury to the poor.
Can your Majesty now distribute the money and food in the treasury to the poor?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the fourth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
After King Wu of Zhou destroyed the Shang Dynasty, he abandoned the chariots and modified them into manned vehicles. He stacked all war weapons upside down, covered them with tiger skins, and told everyone in the world that they would never fight again.
Can your Majesty now give up force, advocate civil rule, and stop fighting?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the fifth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once put all his war horses south of Mount Hua to be pastured, as a sign that he would no longer fight.
Can your Majesty now allow the war horses to rest and not be used again?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the sixth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
King Wu of Zhou once put the cattle transporting grain and grass to the north of Taolin for grazing, to show that he no longer needed to transport and store military grain.
Can your Majesty now graze cattle instead of using them to transport and store grain?
The king of Han said: No.
Zhang Liang said: This is the seventh reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
且天下游士离其亲戚，弃坟墓，去故旧，从陛下游者，徒欲日夜望咫尺之地。
今复六国，立韩、魏、燕、赵、齐、楚之後，天下游士各归事其主，从其亲戚，反其故旧坟墓，陛下与谁取天下乎？
其不可八矣。
且夫楚唯无彊，六国立者复桡而从之，陛下焉得而臣之？
诚用客之谋，陛下事去矣。
汉王辍食吐哺，骂曰： 竖儒，几败而公事！
令趣销印。
汉四年，韩信破齐而欲自立为齐王，汉王怒。
张良说汉王，汉王使良授齐王信印，语在淮阴事中。
其秋，汉王追楚至阳夏南，战不利而壁固陵，诸侯期不至。
良说汉王，汉王用其计，诸侯皆至。
translation: 
Travelers all over the world stay away from their relatives, abandon their ancestral graves, say goodbye to their hometown friends, and follow His Majesty to fight everywhere, looking forward to it day and night just to get a fiefdom.
Now your Majesty has re-divided the descendants of the Six Kingdoms and established the descendants of Han, Wei, Yan, Zhao, Qi and Chu as princes and kings. The wanderers in the world have returned to serve their monarchs, reunite with their long-lost relatives, and return to their old friends and hometowns where their ancestral graves are. Who will your Majesty go with to conquer the world?
This is the eighth reason why the descendants of the Six Kingdoms cannot be enfeoffed.
Moreover, the Chu State is currently invincible in the world. The descendants of the six kingdoms you have re-enfranchised will all surrender to the Chu State. What method can your Majesty have to make them surrender?
If your majesty really adopts the diner's plan, your majesty's great affairs will be ruined.
The King of Han stopped eating, spit out the food in his mouth, and cursed: This ignorant person almost ruined my big event!
Immediately ordered the seal to be destroyed immediately.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin wanted to proclaim himself king of Qi after conquering Qi, but the king of Han was furious.
Zhang Liang advised the King of Han, and the King of Han sent Zhang Liang to grant Han Xin the seal of King Xin of Qi. This matter was recorded in the "Biography of the Marquis of Huaiyin".
In the autumn of this year, the king of Han pursued the Chu army to the south of Yangxia. Because of the defeat in the battle, he held fast to the Guling camp. The princes did not come on the appointed day.
Zhang Liang proposed a plan to the king of Han, and the king of Han adopted his plan, and all the princes came.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
语在项籍事中。
汉六年正月，封功臣。
良未尝有战斗功，高帝曰： 运筹策帷帐中，决胜千里外，子房功也。
自择齐三万户。
良曰： 始臣起下邳，与上会留，此天以臣授陛下。
陛下用臣计，幸而时中，臣原封留足矣，不敢当三万户。
乃封张良为留侯，与萧何等俱封。
上已封大功臣二十馀人，其馀日夜争功不决，未得行封。
上在雒阳南宫，从复道望见诸将往往相与坐沙中语。
上曰： 此何语？
留侯曰： 陛下不知乎？
此谋反耳。
上曰： 天下属安定，何故反乎？
留侯曰： 陛下起布衣，以此属取天下，今陛下为天子，而所封皆萧、曹故人所亲爱，而所诛者皆生平所仇怨。
今军吏计功，以天下不足遍封，此属畏陛下不能尽封，恐又见疑平生过失及诛，故即相聚谋反耳。
上乃忧曰： 为之柰何？
留侯曰： 上平生所憎，群臣所共知，谁最甚者？
上曰： 雍齿与我故，数尝窘辱我。
我欲杀之，为其功多，故不忍。
translation: 
This incident is recorded in "The Chronicles of Xiang Yu".
In the first month of the sixth year of Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao rewarded the meritorious officials.
Zhang Liang had no military exploits. Emperor Gao said: "It is the contribution of Zifang to make plans in the camp and decide the victory or defeat thousands of miles away."
Zhang Liang was asked to select 30,000 households from Qi State as fiefdoms.
Zhang Liang said: When I started an uprising in Xiapi and met Your Majesty in Liu County, it was God who handed me over to Your Majesty.
Your Majesty adopted my strategy, and luckily my prediction turned out right. I only wanted to be granted a county seal, and I did not dare to bear 30,000 households.
So Zhang Liang was granted the title of Liuhou, along with Xiao He and others.
The emperor has awarded awards to more than 20 great meritorious officials, but the rest are competing for merit day and night, unable to decide who will win, and cannot award awards.
The emperor was in the Nangong Palace in Luoyang. From the bridge, he saw some generals often sitting on the sand and talking to each other.
The emperor said: What are these people talking about?
Liuhou said: "Don't your Majesty know?"
This is discussing rebellion.
The emperor said: The world is close to peace, why do we still want to rebel?
Liu Hou said: Your Majesty rose up as a commoner and won the world with the help of these people. Now you are the emperor, and the people you reward are Xiao He and Cao Shen, your close and favored friends, and the people you kill are all the people you hate in your life.
Now the officers are counting their merits and believe that the land in the world is not enough to reward them all. These people are afraid that Your Majesty will not be able to grant them all, and they are afraid that they will be suspected of their faults in their lives and be executed, so they gather together to plot a rebellion.
The emperor then said worriedly: What should we do about this matter?
Liu Hou said: "Your Majesty hates the most in his life, and all the ministers know it. Who is the most outstanding?"
The emperor said: Yong Chi has an old grudge with me and has embarrassed and humiliated me many times.
I originally wanted to kill him, but I couldn't bear it because of his many contributions.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
留侯曰： 今急先封雍齿以示群臣，群臣见雍齿封，则人人自坚矣。
於是上乃置酒，封雍齿为什方侯，而急趣丞相、御史定功行封。
群臣罢酒，皆喜曰： 雍齿尚为侯，我属无患矣。
刘敬说高帝曰： 都关中。
上疑之。
左右大臣皆山东人，多劝上都雒阳： 雒阳东有成皋，西有殽黾，倍河，向伊雒，其固亦足恃。
留侯曰： 雒阳虽有此固，其中小，不过数百里，田地薄，四面受敌，此非用武之国也。
夫关中左殽函，右陇蜀，沃野千里，南有巴蜀之饶，北有胡苑之利，阻三面而守，独以一面东制诸侯。
诸侯安定，河渭漕輓天下，西给京师；诸侯有变，顺流而下，足以委输。
此所谓金城千里，天府之国也，刘敬说是也。
於是高帝即日驾，西都关中。
留侯从入关。
translation: 
Marquis Liu said: Now, hurry up and show Yong Chi to the ministers. When the ministers see that Yong Chi has been awarded, everyone will have no doubt that they can be awarded the title.
So the emperor held a banquet, made Yongchi a Marquis of Shifang, and urgently urged the prime minister and censor to assess his merits and implement rewards.
After drinking, all the officials said happily: "Yong Chi has been granted the title of Marquis, so we don't have to worry."
Liu Jing advised Emperor Gao: We should make Guanzhong our capital.
The emperor had doubts about this.
The ministers around the emperor were all from the Guandong region, and most of them advised the emperor to make Luoyang the capital. They said: Luoyang has Chenggao to the east, Mount Xiao and Mianchi to the west, with the Yellow River as its back and Yishui and Luoshui as its back. Its terrain is dangerous and the city walls are strong enough to rely on.
Liu Hou said: Although Luoyang is strong, the territory in the middle is small, only a few hundred miles in radius, the land is barren, and it is surrounded by enemies on all sides. It is not a place for military use.
To the east of Guan Guan are Laoshan and Hangu Pass, to the west are Longshan and Minshan. The fertile land is thousands of miles in circumference, to the south are the fertile counties of Ba and Shu, and to the north are Huyuan, which is good for grazing. We rely on the dangers on three sides to hold on, and only need to control the princes on the east side.
If the princes are stable, the world's grain can be transported from the Yellow River and the Wei River to the west to supply Kyoto; if something happens to the princes, it can be transported down the river, enough to transport supplies.
This is the so-called "Golden City Thousand Miles, Land of Abundance", Liu Jing's suggestion is right.
So Emperor Gao immediately decided to set off and head to Xiguan to make his capital Guanzhong.
Liu Hou followed Emperor Gao into the pass.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
留侯性多病，即道引不食穀，杜门不出岁馀。
上欲废太子，立戚夫人子赵王如意。
大臣多谏争，未能得坚决者也。
吕后恐，不知所为。
人或谓吕后曰： 留侯善画计筴，上信用之。
吕后乃使周吕侯吕泽劫留侯，曰： 君常为上谋臣，今上欲易太子，君安得高枕而卧乎？
留侯曰： 始上数在困急之中，幸用臣筴。
今天下安定，以爱欲易太子，骨肉之间，虽臣等百馀人何益。
吕泽彊要曰： 为我画计。
留侯曰： 此难以口舌争也。
顾上有不能致者，天下有四人。
四人者年老矣，皆以为上慢侮人，故逃匿山中，义不为汉臣。
然上高此四人。
今公诚能无爱金玉璧帛，令太子为书，卑辞安车，因使辩士固请，宜来。
translation: 
He was frail and sickly by nature, so he practiced Tao Yin's technique and refused to eat grains. He stayed in seclusion for more than a year.
The emperor wanted to depose the prince and establish Ruyi, the son of Mrs. Qi's son, King Zhao.
Many ministers tried to dissuade him, but they failed to change Emperor Gao's unwavering mind.
Queen Lu was frightened and didn't know what to do.
Someone said to Queen Lu: Marquis Liu is good at making suggestions, and the emperor trusts him very much.
Empress Lu sent Lu Ze, the Marquis of Jiancheng, to coerce Marquis Liu, saying: "You have always been the emperor's adviser. Now the emperor plans to replace the prince. How can you sit back and relax?"
Liuhou said: The emperor was in crisis many times and adopted my strategy.
Now that the world is at peace, if I want to change the crown prince due to my preference, what good will it do even if more than a hundred people like me come to remonstrate with me about these matters between close relatives?
Lu Ze tried his best to threaten and said: You must give me an idea.
Liu Hou said: This matter is difficult to argue with words.
There are four people in the world who cannot be provoked by the emperor.
These four people were already old, and they all thought that the emperor was arrogant, so they fled and hid in the mountains. They refused to be ministers of the Han Dynasty according to morality.
But the emperor respected these four people very much.
Now if you can really spare no expense on money and silk, ask the prince to write a letter, be polite in your words, prepare a carriage, and send eloquent people to earnestly invite them, they should come.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
来，以为客，时时从入朝，令上见之，则必异而问之。
问之，上知此四人贤，则一助也。
於是吕后令吕泽使人奉太子书，卑辞厚礼，迎此四人。
四人至，客建成侯所。
汉十一年，黥布反，上病，欲使太子将，往击之。
四人相谓曰： 凡来者，将以存太子。太子将兵，事危矣。
乃说建成侯曰： 太子将兵，有功则位不益太子；无功还，则从此受祸矣。
且太子所与俱诸将，皆尝与上定天下枭将也，今使太子将之，此无异使羊将狼也，皆不肯为尽力，其无功必矣。
臣闻 母爱者子抱 ，今戚夫人日夜待御，赵王如意常抱居前，上曰 终不使不肖子居爱子之上 ，明乎其代太子位必矣。
君何不急请吕后承间为上泣言： 黥布，天下猛将也，善用兵，今诸将皆陛下故等夷，乃令太子将此属，无异使羊将狼，莫肯为用，且使布闻之，则鼓行而西耳。
translation: 
After arriving, treat them as distinguished guests, let them follow you into the court from time to time, and ask the emperor to see them. Then the emperor will be surprised and ask about them.
When he asked them, the emperor knew that these four people were capable, so this would be a help to the prince.
So Empress Lu asked Lu Ze to send someone to carry the prince's letter and greet the four people with humble words and generous gifts.
Four people came and stayed as guests in the mansion of Marquis Jiancheng.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu rebelled. The emperor was seriously ill at this time and planned to send the prince to lead his troops to attack the rebels.
The four people discussed with each other and said: The reason why we are here is to protect the prince. If the prince leads troops to suppress the rebellion, things will be dangerous.
So he advised Marquis Jiancheng: If the prince leads his troops to battle and achieves success, his position will not be higher than that of the prince; if he returns without success, he will suffer disaster from now on.
Besides, the generals who went on the expedition with the prince were all fierce generals who once conquered the world with the emperor. Now letting the prince lead these people is no different from letting a sheep command a wolf. They will never work hard for the prince. It is certain that the prince cannot make achievements.
We heard that if you love your mother, you must embrace your son. Now Mrs. Qi serves the emperor day and night, and Zhao Wang Ruyi is often held in front of the emperor. The emperor said, "After all, I cannot let my incompetent son be placed above my beloved son. Obviously, it is inevitable that Zhao Wang Ruyi will replace the crown prince."
Why don't you quickly ask Empress Lu to take the opportunity to cry to the emperor: Ying Bu is a fierce general in the world and is very good at using troops. All the generals today are your Majesty's contemporaries in the past, but you let the prince lead these people. This is no different from letting a sheep command a wolf. No one is willing to serve the prince, and if Ying Bu hears about this situation, he will invade westward with great fanfare.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
上虽病，彊载辎车，卧而护之，诸将不敢不尽力。
上虽苦，为妻子自彊。
於是吕泽立夜见吕后，吕后承间为上泣涕而言，如四人意。
上曰： 吾惟竖子固不足遣，而公自行耳。
於是上自将兵而东，群臣居守，皆送至灞上。
留侯病，自彊起，至曲邮，见上曰： 臣宜从，病甚。
楚人剽疾，原上无与楚人争锋。
因说上曰： 令太子为将军，监关中兵。
上曰： 子房虽病，彊卧而傅太子。
是时叔孙通为太傅，留侯行少傅事。
汉十二年，上从击破布军归，疾益甚，愈欲易太子。
留侯谏，不听，因疾不视事。
叔孙太傅称说引古今，以死争太子。
上详许之，犹欲易之。
translation: 
Although the emperor was ill, he could still manage to ride in a carriage and command the army while lying down, and the generals dared not fail to do their best.
Although the emperor has suffered some hardships, he still has to work hard for his wife and children.
So Lu Ze immediately went to see Empress Lu that night. Empress Lu found an opportunity to cry to the emperor and said what the four people had instructed her to do.
The emperor said: "I just thought that this guy couldn't be sent. I should go myself."
So the emperor personally led the troops to march eastward, while all the officials stayed behind and sent them to Ba Shang.
When Liuhou fell ill, he managed to support himself and sent him to Quyou. He went to see the emperor and said, "I should have gone with you, but I was seriously ill."
The Chu people and horses are very fast and agile. I hope the emperor will not compete with the Chu people.
Liuhou took the opportunity to persuade the emperor: Let the prince be a general and oversee the army in Guanzhong.
The emperor said: Although the ovary is sick, she still has to help the prince while he is in bed and recuperating.
At this time, Shusun Tong was appointed as Taifu, and Liu Hou was appointed as Shaofu.
In the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor returned with the army that defeated Yingbu. His illness became more serious and he wanted to replace the prince even more.
The emperor refused to listen to Liu Hou's advice, so Liu Hou excused himself from the affairs because of illness.
Taifu Shusun quoted ancient and modern examples to persuade him, and fought desperately to protect the prince.
The emperor pretended to agree to him, but still wanted to change the prince.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
及燕，置酒，太子侍。
四人从太子，年皆八十有馀，须眉皓白，衣冠甚伟。
上怪之，问曰： 彼何为者？
四人前对，各言名姓，曰东园公，角里先生，绮里季，夏黄公。
上乃大惊，曰： 吾求公数岁，公辟逃我，今公何自从吾兒游乎？
四人皆曰： 陛下轻士善骂，臣等义不受辱，故恐而亡匿。
窃闻太子为人仁孝，恭敬爱士，天下莫不延颈欲为太子死者，故臣等来耳。
上曰： 烦公幸卒调护太子。
四人为寿已毕，趋去。
上目送之，召戚夫人指示四人者曰： 我欲易之，彼四人辅之，羽翼已成，难动矣。
吕后真而主矣。
戚夫人泣，上曰： 为我楚舞，吾为若楚歌。
歌曰： 鸿鹄高飞，一举千里。
羽翮已就，横绝四海。
横绝四海，当可柰何！
虽有矰缴，尚安所施！
translation: 
When there is leisure, a banquet will be set up, and the prince will be waiting on him.
The four men followed the prince. They were all in their eighties, with white men and eyebrows, and very magnificent and unique clothes.
The emperor felt strange and asked: "What do they do?"
The four people came forward to answer each other's questions, and each said his name: Dong Yuan Gong, Mr. Jiao Li, Qili Ji, and Xia Huang Gong.
The emperor was shocked and said: I have been visiting you for several years, but you have all avoided me. Why do you voluntarily follow me to socialize with me now?
All four said: Your Majesty is contemptuous of scholars and likes to curse. We are righteous and do not want to be humiliated, so we fled in fear.
We have heard privately that the prince is benevolent, filial, courteous, and loves scholars. There is no one in the world who would not stretch their neck to serve the prince to the death. So here we are.
The emperor said: Please take good care of and protect the prince.
The four people finished toasting and blessing, and walked away quickly.
The emperor watched them off, summoned Mrs. Qi, pointed to the four people, and said, "I want to replace the prince. The four of them will assist him. The prince's wings have already been formed and it is difficult to change them."
Queen Lu is truly your master.
Qi Fu began to cry, and the emperor said: You dance Chu dances for me, and I sing Chu songs for you.
The emperor sang: The swan flies high, fluttering its wings for thousands of miles.
The wings are ready, soaring all over the world.
Soaring all over the world, there is nothing you can do!
Although there are short arrows, where can I use them?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
歌数阕，戚夫人嘘唏流涕，上起去，罢酒。
竟不易太子者，留侯本招此四人之力也。
留侯从上击代，出奇计马邑下，及立萧何相国，所与上从容言天下事甚众，非天下所以存亡，故不著。
留侯乃称曰： 家世相韩，及韩灭，不爱万金之资，为韩报雠彊秦，天下振动。今以三寸舌为帝者师，封万户，位列侯，此布衣之极，於良足矣。
原弃人间事，欲从赤松子游耳。
乃学辟穀，道引轻身。
会高帝崩，吕后德留侯，乃彊食之，曰： 人生一世间，如白驹过隙，何至自苦如此乎！
留侯不得已，彊听而食。
後八年卒，谥为文成侯。
子不疑代侯。
translation: 
The emperor sang several times, and Mrs. Qi sobbed and shed tears. The emperor got up and left, and the banquet was over.
The emperor did not replace the prince in the end. It was originally Liuhou who caused the influence of these four people.
Liuhou followed the emperor to attack the country of Dai, made a clever plan under the city of Mayi, and persuaded the emperor to appoint Xiao He as the prime minister. He and the emperor usually talked about many things in the world casually, but because they were not important matters related to the survival of the country, they were not recorded.
Liuhou declared: My family has been the prime minister of Korea for generations. When Korea was destroyed, I spared no expense on my family wealth to avenge Korea against the powerful Qin. The world was shocked by this. Now with my three-inch tongue, I am the emperor's commander, granting tens of thousands of households, and ranking among the nobles. This is supreme for a commoner. I, Zhang Liang, am very satisfied.
I am willing to abandon the things in this world and plan to travel with Chisongzi.
Zhang Liang then learned the science of bigu and practiced the Tao to lead the way of lightening one's body.
When Emperor Gao died, Empress Lu was grateful to Liu Hou, so she tried her best to let him eat, saying: "In this life, time flies as fast as a fleeting moment, why do you have to be so ascetic?"
Liu Hou had no choice but to eat as ordered.
Eight years later, Liuhou died, and his posthumous title was Wenchenghou.
His son Zhang Busuo was granted the title of Marquis.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
子房始所见下邳圯上老父与太公书者，後十三年从高帝过济北，果见穀城山下黄石，取而葆祠之。
留侯死，并葬黄石。
每上冢伏腊，祠黄石。
留侯不疑，孝文帝五年坐不敬，国除。
太史公曰：学者多言无鬼神，然言有物。
至如留侯所见老父予书，亦可怪矣。
高祖离困者数矣，而留侯常有功力焉，岂可谓非天乎？
上曰： 夫运筹筴帷帐之中，决胜千里外，吾不如子房。
余以为其人计魁梧奇伟，至见其图，状貌如妇人好女。
盖孔子曰： 以貌取人，失之子羽。
留侯亦云。
translation: 
Zhang Zifang first met the father-in-law who gave him "Tai Gong's Art of War" on the Xiapi Bridge. Thirteen years after their departure, he passed through Jibei with Emperor Gao. Sure enough, he saw the yellow stone at the foot of Gucheng Mountain, so he took it back and worshiped it as a treasure.
Liuhou died and Huangshi was buried together.
From then on, whenever Zhang Liang was worshiped during tomb sweeping and winter and summer festivals, Huangshi was also worshiped at the same time.
Zhang Buyi, the remaining marquis, committed the crime of disrespect in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowen, and the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: Most scholars say that there are no ghosts and gods, but they also say that there are spirits.
As for things like when Liu Hou met his father-in-law and gave him a book, it was magical enough.
Emperor Gaozu encountered difficulties many times, and Liu Hou often performed effective in such critical moments. Can it be said that it is not God's will?
The emperor said: Planning is done in the camp, and victory or defeat is decided thousands of miles away. I can't compare with Zifang.
I originally thought that this person might be tall and mighty, but when I saw his portrait, he looked like a beautiful woman.
Confucius said: If you judge people by their appearance, you will be wrong in treating Ziyu.
The same can be said for Liuhou.


