Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫性灵之表，不知所以发于咏歌；感动之端，不知所以关于手足。
生于心者谓之道，成于形者谓之用。
譬诸天地，其犹影响，百兽率舞，而况于人乎！美其和平而哀其丧乱，以兹援律，乃播其声焉。
农瑟羲琴，倕钟和磬，达灵成性，象物昭功，由此言之，其来自远。
殷氏不纲，遗风馀孽，淫奏既兴，雅章奔散，《英》《茎》之制，盖已微矣。
孔子曰： 人能弘道，非道弘人。
周始二《南》，《风》兼六代。
昔黄帝作《云门》，尧作《咸池》，舜作《大韶》，禹作《大夏》，殷作《大濩》，周作《大武》，所谓因前王之礼，设俯仰之容，和顺积中，英华发外。
《书》称命夔典乐，教胄子，则《周官》所谓奏大吕，歌黄钟。
天贶来下，人祗动色，抑扬周监，以弘雅音。
translation: 
The expression of spirituality, for some reason, turns to chanting; the expression of emotion, for some reason, involves the hands and feet.
What arises from the heart is called Tao, and what is reflected in images is called Yong.
It is also influential to use this principle to look at the heaven and earth. All animals dance together, not to mention humans. They praise peace and mourn for chaos. In this case, the use of music can spread the sound.
Shennong made the harp and Fuxi made the harp, and then made the bell and the chime to express the soul and temperament, and to imitate the achievements of all things. From this point of view, its origin is very old.
The Yin Shang Dynasty had no discipline and left behind a very bad atmosphere. After the rise of obscene music, elegant music was lost and scattered. Works such as "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems" have declined.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.
Starting from the Zhou Dynasty, there were two "Southern", and "Guofeng" was compatible with six generations.
In the past, the Yellow Emperor wrote "Yunmen", Yao wrote "Xianchi", Shun wrote "Da Shao", Yu wrote "Da Xia", Yin wrote "Da Xi", and Zhou wrote "Ren Wu". It is said that they inherited the etiquette of the virtuous kings of the previous generation and formulated the etiquette of bowing and behaving. The accumulation of gentleness is included, and the elegance is expressed on the outside.
"Shang Shu" said that Kui was ordered to take charge of music and teach the noble children, which is what "Zhou Guan" said about playing Da Lu and singing Huang Zhong.
When God's gift came down, people looked respectful and solemn, inheriting the glory of the Zhou Dynasty and promoting elegant music.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及褒艳兴灾，平王逢乱，礼废亲疏，乐沈河海。
是以延陵季子闻歌《小雅》曰： 其周德之衰乎！犹有先王之遗风焉。
而列壤称孤，各兴吟咏。
魏文侯聆古乐而恐卧，晋平公听新声而忘食，先王之道，渐以陵夷。
八方殊风，九州异则。
秦氏并吞，遂专刑宪，至于弦歌《诗》《颂》，干戚旄羽，投诸烟火，扫地无遗。
汉祖提剑寰中，削平天下，文匪躬于德化，武有心于制作。
太后摈儒家之道，大臣排贾氏之言，搢绅先生所以长叹，而子政、仲舒犹不能已也。
炎汉中兴，明皇帝即位，表圭景而陈《清庙》，树槐阴而疏璧流；祀光武于明堂，以配上帝；召桓荣于太学，袒而割牲；济济焉，皇皇焉，有足观者。
translation: 
When Bao Si Yan Ji caused disaster, King Ping was in troubled times, etiquette was destroyed, relatives were alienated, and elegant music was lost in the rivers and seas.
Therefore, Yanling Jizi heard the song "Xiaoya" and said: "Probably it is the decline of virtue in the Zhou Dynasty that still has the legacy of the previous kings."
And the nations became kings and raised their own music.
Marquis Wen of Wei was afraid of falling asleep when he heard the music of ancient kings. Duke Ping of Jin forgot to eat when he heard new music. The way of the kings gradually declined because of this.
The customs are different in all directions, and the practices in Kyushu are different.
The Qin family annexed the world and unified the legal system. As for Xiange "Poetry". "Ode" and other works, Qian Qi Yanyu and other props were all thrown into the fireworks, and nothing was left behind.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his sword to revolt and pacified the world. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty devoted all his efforts to implement moral education, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty devoted himself to making rituals and music.
The Queen Mother abandoned Confucianism, and the ministers rejected Jia's remarks. Mr. Wu Shen sighed deeply, but Zizheng and Dong Zhongshu still could not give up.
When the Cambodian-Han Dynasty resurgence, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne, Li Tugui watched the shadow of the sun and used "Song of Zhou". In the "Qing Temple", a pagoda market was established to carry out enlightenment; in the Mingtang, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped to be worthy of enjoying God; Huan Rong was summoned to the Imperial Academy to perform the circumcision ceremony in person; it was solemn, solemn, grand and solemn, and it was worth seeing.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
自斯厥后，礼乐弥殷。
永平三年，官之司乐，改名大予，式扬典礼，旁求图谶，道邻《雅》《颂》，事迩中和。
其有五方之乐者，则所谓 大乐九变，天神可得而礼 也。
其有宗庙之乐者，则所谓 肃雍和鸣，先祖是听 者也。
其有社稷之乐者，则所谓 琴瑟击鼓，以迓田祖 者也。
其有辟雍之乐者，则所谓 移风易俗，莫善于乐 者也。
其有黄门之乐者，则所谓 宴乐群臣，蹲蹲舞我 者也。
其有短箫之乐者，则所谓 王师大捷，令军中凯歌 者也。
魏武挟天子而令诸侯，思一戎而匡九服，时逢吞灭，宪章咸荡。
及削平刘表，始获杜夔，扬鼙总干，式遵前记。
三祖纷纶，咸工篇什，声歌虽有损益，爱玩在乎雕章。
是以王粲等各造新诗，抽其藻思，吟咏神灵，赞扬来飨。
武皇帝采汉魏之遗范，览景文之垂则，鼎鼐唯新，前音不改。
泰始九年，光禄大夫荀勖始作古尺，以调声韵，仍以张华等所制高文，陈诸下管。
永嘉之乱，伶官既减，曲台宣榭，咸变污莱。
虽复《象舞》歌工，自胡归晋，至于孤竹之管，云和之瑟，空桑之琴，泗滨之磬，其能备者，百不一焉。
translation: 
Since then, rituals and music have become more prosperous.
In the third year of Yonghu, the official position in charge of music in the government was renamed as Dayu Le. It promoted the laws and etiquette, searched for prophecy documents, and was close to the "Ya" and "Song" in moral terms, and close to neutrality in affairs.
If there is music from all over the world, it is called great music and there are many variations, so God can get them and use them appropriately.
If there is sacrificial music from the ancestral temple, it is the so-called solemn and harmonious sound, and the ancestors would listen to this.
If there is music such as worshiping Sheji, it is the so-called "playing the harp and drums to welcome the ancestor Shennong".
If there is ceremonial music such as Piyong, it is the so-called change of customs. There is no better way than music.
If there is court music such as Huangmen, it is the so-called "let the ministers enjoy elegant music and let us dance solemnly".
If there is military music such as short flute, it is the so-called victory of the king's division, and he ordered the army to play a triumphal song.
Emperor Wei took the emperor hostage and ordered the princes, hoping to use war to pacify the four sides. At that time, he was annexed and destroyed, and all the constitutional laws were lost.
After Liu Biao was defeated, Du Kui was obtained. He beat the drum and picked up the shield, fully complying with the records of the previous generation.
The three emperors were talented and proficient in poetry. Although the rhythms of songs and poems were different, their favorite thing was to carve out lyrics.
Therefore, Wang Can and others each composed new poems, used their writing talents, chanted and sung to the gods, and praised and publicized their achievements.
Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty adopted the standards left by the Han and Wei Dynasties, referred to the rules passed down by Emperors Jing and Wen, updated the dingnai, and left the music of the previous generations unchanged.
In the ninth year of Hula, Xunxu, the official of Guanglu, began to make an ancient ruler to adjust the rhyme, and then used the superb poems and essays written by Zhang Hua and others to be played at the grand ceremony.
After the Yongjia turmoil, the number of musicians decreased, and the school's music stage and martial arts lecture hall all turned into filthy wastelands.
Although there were singers from "Elephant Dance" who returned to the Jin Dynasty from outside the Great Wall, as for wind instruments such as Guzhu, the harp produced by Yunhe Mountain, the harp produced by Kongsang Mountain, and the stone chimes produced by the swimming bank, at that time, less than one piece could be owned in a hundred pieces.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫人受天地之灵，蕴菁华之气，刚柔递用，哀乐分情。
经春阳而自喜，遇秋雕而不悦。
游乎金石之端，出乎管弦之外，因物迁逝，乘流不反。
是以楚王升轻轩于彭蠡，汉顺听鸣鸟于樊衢。
圣人功成作乐，化平裁曲，乃扬节奏，以暢中和，饰其欢欣，止于哀思者也。
凡乐之道，五声、八音、六律、十二管，为之纲纪云。
五声：宫为君，宫之为言中也。
中和之道，无往而不理焉。
商为臣，商之为言强也，谓金性之坚强也。
角为民，角之为言触也，谓象诸阳气触物而生也。
徵为事，徵之为言止也，言物盛则止也。
羽为物，羽之为言舒也，言阳气将复，万物孳育而舒生也。
古人有言曰： 礼乐不可斯须去身。
化上迁善，有如不及。
translation: 
Human beings inherit the spirituality of heaven and earth, contain the essence of charm, use hardness and softness interchangeably, and distinguish between sadness and joy.
It’s natural to be happy when you see the sunshine in spring, but unhappy when it fades in autumn.
Wandering in the sound of gold and stone, transcending the melody of the orchestra, rising and dying with the changes of all things, following the trend without turning back.
Therefore, the King of Chu boarded a light Xuan chariot at Pengli, and Emperor Shun of Han listened to the crow of the crow at Fanqu.
The saints composed music for their achievements and songs for their enlightenment. It was precisely to use rhythm to express their inner harmony, beautify their joy and joy, and control their sorrow.
In terms of general music, there are five tones, eight tones, six temperaments, and twelve pipes as its outline and backbone.
Five tones: Palace means king, palace means middle.
There is nothing that cannot be cured by the way of neutralization.
Shang is a minister, and Shang means strong, referring to the strong attribute of gold.
Jiao refers to the people, and Jiao refers to touch, which refers to the energy similar to Yang that can be generated when it encounters all things.
Zheng is a matter, and Zheng refers to cessation, which means that the prosperity of things will stop.
Feather is a thing, and what it means is comfort. It means that the Yang Qi will be restored, and all things will thrive and grow.
There is an ancient saying: etiquette and joy can never leave your side for a moment.
Those who have been influenced by those in high positions always seem to find it not enough to change evil and do good.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
是以闻其宫声，使人温良而宽大；闻其商声，使人方廉而好义；闻其角声，使人恻隐而仁爱；闻其徵声，使人乐养而好施；闻其羽声，使人恭俭而好礼。
八音，八方之风也。
乾之音石，其风不周。
坎之音革，其风广莫。
艮之音匏，其风融。
震之音竹，其风明庶。
巽之音木，其风清明。
离之音丝，其风景。
坤之音土，其风凉。
兑之音金，其风阊阖。
阳六为律，谓黄钟、太蔟、姑洗、蕤宾、夷则、无射；阴六为吕，谓大吕、应钟、南吕、林钟、仲吕、夹钟：凡有十二，以配十二辰焉。
律之为言法也，言阳气施生各有法也；吕之为言助也，所以助成阳功也。
正月之辰谓之寅，寅者津也，谓生物之津涂也。
二月之辰名为卯，卯者茂也，言阳气生而孳茂也。
三月之辰名为辰，辰者震也，谓时物尽震动而长也。
translation: 
Therefore, hearing the music of the palace tune makes people gentle, kind and magnanimous; hearing the music of the Shang tune makes people upright, upright and upright; hearing the music of the Jiao tune makes people compassionate and loving; hearing the music of the Zheng tune makes people willing to support and like charity; hearing the music of the Feather tune makes people humble, frugal and fond of etiquette.
Bayin is the wind from all directions.
The sound of dryness is that of stone, and its sound of wind is not clear.
The sound of "Kan" is Ge, and its wind is called "Guang Mo".
The sound of Gen is Gu, and its wind is called Rong.
The sound of the vibration is bamboo, and its wind is called Ming Shu.
The sound of Xun is wood, and its wind is called Qingming.
The sound of separation is silk, and its wind is called scenery.
The sound of Kun is earth, and its wind is called cool.
The sound of Dui is gold, and its wind is called Lu He.
The six items of Yang are the law, which are called Huang Zhong, Taizu, Guxi, Ruibin, Yize, and Wushe; the six items of Yin are the Lu, and they are called Da Lu, Ying Zhong, Nan Lu, Lin Zhong, Zhong Lu, and Jia Zhong. There are twelve items in total, used to correspond to the twelve chen.
Lu refers to law, which means that Yang Qi has its own rules when it is generated; Lu refers to help, which is used to help achieve the effect of Yang.
The Chen of the first month is called Yin, and Yin is Jin, which refers to the path of living things.
The Chen name of February is Mao, and Mao means Mao, which means that Yang Qi is generated and grows luxuriantly.
The name of Chen in March is Chen, which means earthquake, which means that all things sprout and grow during this time.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四月之辰谓为巳，巳者起也，物至此时毕尽而起也。
五月之辰谓为午，午者长也，大也，言物皆长大也。
六月之辰谓之未，未者味也，言时万物向成，有滋味也。
七月之辰谓为申，申者身也，言时万物身体皆成就也。
八月之辰谓为酉，酉者緧也，谓时物皆綇缩也。
九月之辰谓为戌，戌者灭也，谓时物皆衰灭也。
十月之辰谓为亥，亥者劾也，言时阴气劾杀万物也。
十一月之辰谓为子，子者孳也，谓阳气至此更孳生也。
十二月之辰谓为丑，丑者纽也，言终始之际，以纽结为名也。
十一月之管谓之黄钟，黄者，阴阳之中色也。
天有六气，地有五才，而天地数毕焉。
或曰，冬至德气为土，土色黄，故曰黄钟。
正月之管谓为太蔟，蔟者蔟也，谓万物随于阳气太蔟而生也。
三月之管名为姑洗，姑洗者：姑，枯也；洗，濯也，谓物生新洁，洗除其枯，改柯易叶也。
五月之管名为蕤宾，葳蕤，垂下貌也；宾，敬也，谓时阳气下降，阴气始起，相宾敬也。
七月之管名为夷则，夷，平也；则，法也，谓万物将成，平均皆有法则也。
九月之管名为无射，射者出也，言时阳气上升，万物收藏无复出也。
十二月之管名为大吕，吕者助也，谓阳气方之，阴气助也。
十月之管名为应钟，应者和也，谓岁功皆成，应和阳功，收而聚之也。
八月之管名为南吕，南者任也，谓时物皆秀，有怀任之象也。
六月之管名为林钟，林者茂也，谓时物茂盛于野也。
四月之管名为仲吕者，吕，助也，谓阳气盛长，阴助成功也。
二月之管名为夹钟者，夹，佐也，谓时物尚未尽出，阴德佐阳而出物也。
translation: 
The Chen in April is called Si, which means rising. All things have grown up by this time.
The Chen in May is called Wu, and Wu means long and big, which means that all things grow up.
The Chen in June is called Wei, and Wei is the flavor, which means that everything begins to mature and taste at this time.
The Chen of July is called Shen, and Shen means body, which means that the body of all things has grown up at this time.
The chen in August is called You, and You means shrinkage, which means that everything is restrained at this time.
The chen in September is called Xu, and Xu means destruction, which means that all things decay during creation.
The month of October is called Hai, and Hai is Ji, which means that the Yin Qi is executing all things at this time.
The chen in November is called Zi, and Zi means breeding, which means that Yang Qi breeds again at this time.
The chen in December is called Chou, and Chou is the knot, which means the place where the beginning and the end intersect, and the knot is used as the name.
The tube in November is called Huang Zhong, yellow is the middle color of yin and yang.
Heaven has the so-called six qi, and the earth has the so-called five talents. In this way, the numbers of heaven and earth are complete.
Some people say that the nature of the Winter Solstice is earth, and the color of the earth is yellow, so it is called the Yellow Bell.
The name of the first month of the month is Tai Cong. The so-called Cong means Cong, which means that all things grow following the Yang Qi Tai Cong.
The name of the month of March is Guxi. The so-called Guxi: Gu means dry; wash means wash. It means that all things are fresh and clean when they are reborn, washing away their dryness and replacing their branches and leaves.
The name of the tube in May is Ruibin, Wei Rui, which means hanging down; Bin means Jing, which means that at this time, Yang Qi declines and Yin Qi begins to rise, and they treat each other respectfully like guests.
The name of the seventh month is Yi Ze, Yi means flat; Ze means Dharma, which means that all things will grow evenly and conform to the law.
The name of the month of September is Wushe. The so-called "shoot" means "out", which means that the Yang Qi rises during the period, and all things are collected and there is no rebirth.
The name of the supervisor in December is Da Lu. The so-called Lu means help, which means that the Yang Qi has just arrived and the Yin Qi is coming to assist.
The name of the month of October is Ying Zhong. The so-called Ying means harmony, which means that the work of the year has been completed. It responds to the activities of the world, converges and gathers.
The name of the month of August is Nanlu. The so-called Nan means Ren, which means that everything is heading at this time, which is a symbol of pregnancy.
The official name of June is Lin Zhong. The so-called Lin means Mao, which means that everything is flourishing everywhere at this time.
The name of the tube in April is Zhonglu because Lu means help, which means that Yang Qi thrives and grows, and Yin Qi assists success.
The name of the tube in February is Jia Zhong because Jia is the assistant, which means that all things have not fully grown yet, and Yin virtue assists Yang Qi to make all things born.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
汉自东京大乱，绝无金石之乐，乐章亡缺，不可复知。
及魏武平荆州，获汉雅乐郎河南杜夔，能识旧法，以为军谋祭酒，使创定雅乐。
时又有散骑侍郎邓静、尹商善训雅乐，歌师尹胡能歌宗庙郊祀之曲，舞师冯肃、服养晓知先代诸舞，夔悉总领之。
远详经籍，近采故事，考会古乐，始设轩悬钟磬。
而黄初中柴玉、左延年之徒，复以新声被宠，改其声韵。
及武帝受命之初，百度草创。
泰始二年，诏郊祀明堂礼乐权用魏仪，遵周室肇称殷礼之义，但改乐章而已，使傅玄为之词云。
祀天地五郊夕牲歌
天命有晋，穆穆明明。
我其夙夜，祗事上灵。
常于时假，迄用其成。
于荐玄牡，进夕其牲。
translation: 
After the chaos in Tokyo in the Han Dynasty, there was no epigraphic music at all, and the music was scattered and incomplete, and can no longer be known.
When Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty pacified Jingzhou, Du Kui, a native of Henan, who was appointed Yale Lang in the Han Dynasty, remembered the old rules and regulations, appointed him as a military adviser, and asked him to create Yale.
At that time, there were also Sanqi ministers Deng Jing and Yin Shang who were good at singing elegant music, singer Yin Hu who could sing songs for the ancestral temple suburbs, dancers Feng Su and Fu Yang who were familiar with the various dances of the ancestors, and Du Kui led them all.
They studied classic ancient books in detail, collected old stories and legends recently, studied ancient music, and began to set up shelves to hang bells and chimes.
However, during the early years of the Huang Dynasty, people such as Chai Yu and Zuo Yannian became favored because of new music, which changed the charm of their music.
In the early days when Emperor Wu of Jin received his destiny, everything was in the preliminary stage.
In the second year of Taishi, an edict was issued stating that the rituals and music of the Suburban Sacrifice Mingtang should be based on the rituals of the Wei Dynasty. In compliance with the principle that the Zhou Dynasty adopted the Yin and Shang ritual systems at the beginning, it was only necessary to modify the lyrics and let Fu Xuan compose the lyrics for the music.
Sacrifice songs for heaven and earth and the five suburbs:
God gave the Jin Dynasty his destiny because the way of heaven was far-reaching and the emperor was virtuous.
I will work day and night to serve God reverently.
Always comes on time and waits until ready.
A black bull is sacrificed, and one comes on the eve of the sacrifice to view the animals prepared for sacrifice.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
崇德作乐，神祇是听。
祀天地五郊迎送神歌
宣文蒸哉，日靖四方。
永言保之，夙夜匪康。光天之命，上帝是皇。
嘉乐殷荐，灵祚景祥。
神祗降假，享福无疆。
飨天地五郊歌
天祚有晋，其命惟新。
受终于魏，奄有黎民。
燕及皇天，怀和百神。
丕显遗烈，之德之纯。
享其玄牡，式用肇禋。
神祗来格，福禄是臻。
时迈其犹，昊天子之。
祐享有晋，肇庶戴之。
畏天之威，敬授人时。
丕显丕承，于犹绎思。
皇极斯建，庶绩咸熙。庶几夙夜，惟晋之祺。
宣文惟后，克配彼天。
抚宁四海，保有康年。
于乎缉熙，肆用靖民。
爰立典制，爰修礼纪。
作民之极，莫匪资始。
translation: 
When he upholds virtue and governs, he plays music, and both the gods and the earth hear this.
Sacrifice to the heaven and earth and the greeting and farewell songs of the five suburbs:
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen were so wonderful, they comforted everyone all day long.
Keep this country for a long time and never rest day or night. God is honored by magnifying God’s command.
Beautiful music has been presented again and again, and it is a great omen for the wonderful National Games.
Gods and earth only send blessings, and there is no end to the enjoyment of blessings.
A song to worship the five suburbs of heaven and earth:
God made the Jin Dynasty rule the world and gave orders to establish a new government.
Received the world from the Wei Dynasty and owned all the people.
Let the great gods rest assured, and let the gods be at peace.
Glorify the achievements left by the previous kings and their virtues and goodness.
Offering a black bull, imitating the founding method of the Western Zhou Dynasty.
Gods and gods came together, and fortune and fortune gathered together.
Patrolling the world on time, God Wu Tian bless us.
Bless us to enjoy the Jin Dynasty, and the people of the world support us.
Fear the majesty of God and carefully inform the people of the seasons.
Guangyao inherits the mandate from God and constantly ponders over his mission.
From then on, he set a glorious example of being respectful and diligent without rest.
I hope to work hard day and night for the good fortune of the Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen, as monarchs, were able to comply with the will of God. Soothe the world and maintain prosperity.
Be respectful, diligent, and keep working hard, so you can stabilize the people of the world.
Establish rules and regulations and revise etiquette and laws.
The establishment of people's behavioral norms always begins at this time.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
克昌厥后，永言保之。
天地郊明堂夕牲歌
皇矣有晋，时迈其德。
受终于天，光济万国。
万国既光，神定厥祥。
虔于郊祀，祗事上皇。
祗事上皇，百福是臻。
巍巍祖考，克配彼天。
嘉牲匪歆，德馨惟飨。受天之祐，神化四方。
天地郊明堂降神歌
于赫大晋，应天景祥。
二帝迈德，宣此重光。
我皇受命，奄有万方。
郊祀配享，礼乐孔章。
神祗嘉享，祖考是皇。
克昌厥后，保祚无疆。
天郊飨神歌
整泰坛，礼皇神。
精气感，百灵宾。
蕴硃火，缭芳薪。
translation: 
It can make future generations prosperous and keep this inheritance forever.
Evening sacrifice songs used for sacrifices in the suburbs of heaven and earth and in bright halls:
The great Jin Dynasty patrols on time to implement his virtuous government.
He inherited the world from heaven and helped all the princely states.
The princes and kingdoms have been appeased, and the gods have confirmed the good deeds of those who have been appointed.
Treat suburban priests with piety and serve the emperor respectfully.
Serve the Emperor respectfully, and thousands of blessings will come to you.
The great ancestors were able to comply with the will of God.
Delicious sacrifices are not what the gods need. The only thing they accept is the beauty of virtue and governance.
Accept God’s blessing. Miraculously enlighten the four directions.
A divine song used for sacrifices in the suburbs of heaven and earth and in Mingtang sacrifices: O great Jin Dynasty, you have complied with the will revealed by heaven.
The two late emperors worked hard to establish their virtues and carry forward such great virtues for generations to come.
The emperor of our dynasty inherits the mandate of heaven and owns the land and people in the world.
Large-scale sacrifices are held in the suburbs to share the benefits of ancestors. The ritual music is very solemn and grand.
The gods and earth only came to accept the sacrifices, and the ancestors were more glorious because of it.
It can make future generations prosperous and preserve the inheritance without ever ending.
Sacred songs used to worship heaven in the suburbs:
The altar for worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs was repaired and treated with courtesy to the great god.
The spirit of the spirits was sensed, and all the gods came together.
Light up a red flame and add fragrant firewood.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
紫烟游，冠青云。
神之体，靡象形。
旷无方，幽以清。
神之来，光景昭。
听无闻，视无兆。
神之至，举歆歆。
灵爽协，动余心。
神之坐，同欢娱。
泽云翔，化风舒。
嘉乐奏，文中声。
八音谐，神是听。
咸契齐，并芬芳。
烹牷牲，享玉觞。
神悦飨，歆禋祀。
祐大晋，降繁祉。
作京邑，广四海。
保天年，穷地纪。
地郊飨神歌
整泰折，竢皇祗。
众神感，群灵仪。
阴祀设，吉礼施。
夜将极，时未移。
祗之体，无形象。
潜泰幽，洞忽荒。祗之出，薆若有。
灵无远，天下母。
祗之来，遗光景。
昭若存，终冥冥。
祗之至，举欣欣。
translation: 
Purple smoke swirled up and floated to the top of the blue clouds.
There is no visible trace of the gods' bodies.
It's vast and boundless, deep and lofty.
The gods have arrived, and the sky and sun are very bright.
No sound is heard, no image is seen.
The gods arrived and they were all moved and delighted.
The essence and energy resonate and touch my heart.
The gods took their seats and everyone rejoiced together.
The clouds that moisten all things are lingering, and the gentle breeze that nourishes all things is blowing.
Beautiful music plays, forming a harmonious sound.
The sounds of various instruments were in harmony, and the gods listened to this.
The grains are all clean and the flavor is all fragrant.
The whole animal of pure color was cooked, and the fine wine wrapped in jade cups was presented.
The gods enjoyed it happily and smelled the aroma of the sacrifice.
Bless the great Jin Dynasty and bring you many blessings.
Build the capital and own the world.
Preserve the heavenly years and govern the earth.
Sacred songs used in suburban rituals:
The earth-sacrifice temple in the northern suburbs has been repaired to wait for the great earth god.
The gods got the message and all the earth gods came together.
Yin sacrifices were set up and auspicious rituals were performed.
The night is about to pass, and time seems to have not changed.
The bodies of the earth gods have no form.
Hidden in an extremely deep place, it is chaotic and fuzzy and has no shape.
The appearance of the earth gods seems to be invisible. The spirit is not far away, the world considers her as its mother.
The earth gods came, leaving behind light and shadow.
Bright and seemingly there, but ultimately difficult to see.
The earth gods arrived and they were all delighted.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
舞象德，歌成文。
祗既坐，同欢豫。
泽雨施，化云布。
乐八变，声教敷。
物咸亨，祗是娱。
齐既洁，侍者肃。
玉觞进，咸穆穆。
飨嘉豢，歆德馨。
祚有晋，暨群生。
溢九壤，格天庭。
保万寿，延亿龄。
明堂飨神歌
经始明堂，享祀匪懈。
于皇烈考，光配上帝。
赫赫上帝，既高既崇。
圣考是配，明德显融。
率土敬职，万方来祭。
常于时假，保祚永世。
祠庙夕牲歌
我夕我牲，猗欤敬止。
嘉豢孔时，供兹享祀。
神鉴厥诚，博硕斯歆。
祖考降飨，以虞孝孙之心。
祠庙迎送神歌
呜呼悠哉，日监在兹。
以时享祀，神明降之。
神明斯降，既祐飨之。祚我无疆，受天之祜。
translation: 
Dance a dance that symbolizes virtue, and sing a hymn that constitutes civility.
The earth gods have already sat down, and everyone is rejoicing together.
The rain that moistens all things falls, and the clouds that nourish all things spread.
Music has many movements, and the prestige and education are widespread.
All things develop smoothly, and the earth gods rejoice in this.
The consecrated grains have been cleaned and served respectfully by the waiters.
Present jade cups of fine wine and respectfully greet each other.
Offering carefully raised animals smells the fragrance of virtue.
Bless the Jin Dynasty and all living beings.
Beyond the land of Kyushu, it touches the heaven.
It maintains a lifespan of tens of thousands of years and extends to hundreds of millions of years.
Sacred songs used in Mingtang sacrifices:
Build a bright hall and enjoy the sacrifices without slacking off.
O great ancestors, gloriously worthy of God.
Glorious God, so great and sublime.
The sacred ancestors deserve to be blessed, and the virtues of the saints are displayed.
Officials from all over the country performed their duties respectfully, and people from all over the world came to worship.
Always comes on time to bless and bless you forever.
Evening sacrifice songs in ancestral temples:
I came at dusk to check on the animals used for sacrifice. How respectful.
Carefully raised according to the season, this bundle is provided as an offering for sacrifices.
The gods understood the sincerity and accepted these fat sacrifices.
Ancestors, please come and enjoy it so that your filial descendants can feel at ease.
Welcome and farewell songs for ancestral worship in ancestral temples:
How high and far away, the sun is looking down here.
If you make offerings and sacrifices according to the seasons, the gods will come.
The gods descend upon us to bless us and enjoy our offerings.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
赫赫太上，巍巍圣祖。
明明烈考，丕承继序。祠征西将军登歌
经始宗庙，神明戾止。
申锡无疆，祗承享祀。
假哉皇祖，绥予孙子。
燕及后昆，锡兹繁祉。
祠豫章府君登歌
嘉乐肆筵，荐祀在堂。
皇皇宗庙，乃祖乃皇。
济济辟公，相予蒸尝。
享祀不忒，降福穰穰。
祠颍川府君登歌
于邈先后，实司于天。
显矣皇祖，帝祉肇臻。
本枝克昌，资始开元。
惠我无疆，享祚永年。
祠京兆府君登歌
于惟曾皇，显显令德。
商明清亮，匪竞柔克，保乂命祐，基命惟则。
笃生圣祖，光济四国。
祠宣皇帝登歌
于铄皇祖，圣德钦明。
勤施四方，夙夜敬止。
载敷文教，载扬武烈。
匡定社稷，龚行天罚。
经始大业，造创帝基。
畏天之命，于时保之。
祠景皇帝登歌
执竞景皇，克明克哲。
旁作穆穆，惟祗惟畏。
纂宣之绪，耆定厥功。
登此隽乂，纠彼群凶。
业业在位，帝既勤止。
惟天之命，于穆之已。祠文皇帝登歌
于皇时晋，允文文皇，聪明睿智，圣敬神武。
万机莫综，皇斯清之。
蛇豕放命，皇斯平之。
柔远能迩，简授英贤。
创业垂统，勋格皇天。
translation: 
Let our inheritance have no end and receive endless blessings from God.
O supreme God, ancestors of great saints, fathers of virtuous conduct, gloriously inherited the responsibility of ruling the world. The temple commemorates Sima Jun, the general of the Han Dynasty who conquered the west.
The Sima clan's ancestral temple was built, and the gods came.
The bountiful gifts are boundless, and the sacrifices are made devoutly.
O wonderful ancestor, bring peace to our descendants.
Benefits affect future generations and give us happiness.
The temple worships Sima Liang, the king of Yuzhang Prefecture, and sings:
A beautiful and joyful banquet, with sacrifices brought to the hall.
The great ancestral temple has prospered because of this.
All the wise men gathered together to assist me in performing sacrifices.
Offering sacrifices will not cause any accidents, and the blessings will be abundant.
The temple worships Sima Jun, Lord of Yingchuan Mansion:
Our distant ancestors, emperors, were actually officials in heaven.
The great ancestor began to establish his empire.
The roots are strong and the branches and leaves are prosperous, so the sect was founded.
Give me boundless favor and enjoy blessings forever.
The temple worships Sima Fang, Lord of Jingzhao Prefecture:
The imperial great-grandfather was extremely virtuous.
Mild and pure. Be patient and restrained, stabilize the place, and become a king by imitating him.
Nurturing the holy ancestors, illuminating all directions.
The temple worships Emperor Xuan Sima Yi’s song:
Great imperial grandfather, you are holy, respectful and discerning.
Manage the surrounding areas diligently and perform your duties diligently day and night.
Promote culture and education widely and promote martial arts.
Assist in stabilizing the country and carry out God's punishment.
Lay a great cause and create an imperial foundation.
Respect the destiny and protect it at all times.
The ancestral hall worships the emperor's son and the mirage sings:
Jihuangtong, who is constantly striving for self-improvement, can understand the truth and know right from wrong.
Do everything with foresight. Stay in awe.
Inherit Emperor Xuan Zao's achievements and achieve his own achievements.
Promote those with outstanding talents and correct those who are evil.
He was conscientious in his duties and the emperor was very diligent.
The way of heaven is infinite and profound. The temple worships Emperor Sima Zhao’s song:
The great Jin Dynasty, the virtuous Emperor Wen was smart, wise, sage and mighty.
If no one can handle government affairs, the emperor will solve them.
Long snakes and big pigs disobeyed orders and harmed people, so the emperor came to pacify them.
He cares about the land near and far, and selects and appoints talented people.
Create a foundation that will be passed down, and your merits will reach the sky.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
祠庙飨神歌二篇
曰晋是常，享祀时序。
宗庙致敬，礼乐具举。
惟其来祭，普天率土。
牺樽既奠，清酤既载。
亦有和羹，荐羞斯备。
蒸蒸永慕，感时兴思。
登歌奏舞，神乐其和。
祖考来格，祐我邦家。
溥天之下，罔不休嘉。
肃肃在位，济济臣工。
四海来格，神仪有容。
钟鼓振，管弦理，舞开元，歌永始，神胥乐兮！
肃肃在位，臣工济济。
小大咸敬，上下有礼。
理管弦，振鼓钟，舞象德，歌咏功，神胥乐兮！
肃肃在位，有来雍雍。
穆穆天子，相维辟公。
礼有仪，乐有则，舞象功，歌咏德，神胥乐兮！
杜夔传旧雅乐四曲，一曰《鹿鸣》，二曰《驺虞》，三曰《伐檀》，四曰《文王》，皆古声辞。
translation: 
Two songs of worship in ancestral temples:
In the Jin Dynasty, it was a routine practice to offer sacrifices in accordance with the seasons.
Pay tribute to the ancestors in the ancestral temple, accompanied by music and rituals.
Speaking of those who come to offer sacrifices, they represent all places in the world.
The sacrificial bottles have been laid out and the wine has been filled.
There are also delicious soups and delicious food prepared.
The endless longing full of filial piety was born out of the scene at that time.
Songs and dances are performed in the hall, and the gods are happy with the harmony and beauty.
Our ancestors have come to bless our homeland.
Everything in the world is beautiful and auspicious.
The respectful ruler, the ministers and officials gathered together.
He came here from all over the world and looked very handsome.
The bells and drums are ringing, the orchestra is melodious, dancing for the beginning of a new era, singing for the eternal foundation, the gods are very happy!
The respectful ruler, ministers and officials gathered together.
Both junior and senior officials are respectful, and both superiors and subordinates are courteous.
The orchestras are tuned, the drums and bells are played, the dance symbolizes virtue, and the songs sing about meritorious deeds. The gods are all happy!
Respectful incumbents, guests are calm and generous.
The emperor is solemn and the princes join hands.
There are rituals to perform rituals, music to play according to laws, dance to symbolize merit, and songs to sing about virtue. The gods are all happy!
The old "Grace" passed down by Du Kui has four parts, the first part is called "Lu Ming", the second part is called "Liu Yu", the third part is called "Fa Tan", and the fourth part is called "Wen Wang", all of which are ancient melodies and lyrics.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
及太和中，左延年改夔《驺虞》、《伐檀》、《文王》三曲，更自作声节，其名虽存，而声实异。
唯因夔《鹿鸣》，全不改易。
每正旦大会，太尉奉璧，群后行礼，东厢雅乐常作者是也。
后又改三篇之行礼诗。
第一日《于赫篇》，咏武帝，声节与古《鹿鸣》同。
第二曰《巍巍篇》，咏文帝，用延年所改《驺虞》声。
第三日《洋洋篇》，咏明帝，用延年所改《文王》声。
第四曰复用《鹿鸣》。
《鹿鸣》之声重用，而除古《伐檀》。
及晋初，食举亦用《鹿鸣》。
至泰始五年，尚书奏，使太仆傅玄、中书监荀勖、黄门侍郎张华各造正旦行礼及王公上寿酒、食举乐歌诗。
荀勖云： 魏氏行礼、食举，再取周诗《鹿鸣》以为乐章。
又《鹿鸣》以宴嘉宾，无取于朝，考之旧闻，未知所应。
勖乃除《鹿鸣》旧歌更作行礼诗四篇，先陈三朝朝宗之义。
又为正旦大会、王公上寿歌诗并食举乐歌诗，合十三篇。
又以魏氏歌诗或二言，或三言，或四言，或五言，与古诗不类，以问司律中郎将陈颀。
颀曰： 被之金石，未必皆当。
故勖造晋歌，皆为四言，唯王公上寿酒一篇为三言五言焉。
张华以为 魏上寿、食举诗及汉氏所施用，其文句长短不齐，未皆合古。
盖以依咏弦节，本有因循，而识乐知音，足以制声度曲，法用率非凡近之所能改。
二代三京，袭而不变，虽诗章辞异，兴废随时，至其韵逗留曲折，皆系于旧，有由然也。
translation: 
During the Taihe period of the Wei Dynasty, Zuo Yannian adapted Du Kui's three pieces, "Lie Yu", "Fa Tan" and "King Wen", and created his own melody and beat. Although the name was retained, the melody was actually different.
Only Du Kui's "Lu Wu" was used without any changes.
Whenever there is a general meeting on the first day of the first lunar month, the Taiwei holds the jade and the ministers salute, and that is the elegant music that is often played in Shuxiang.
Later, three more poems were adapted and used as ceremonial poems.
The first part is called "Yu He Pian", which praises Emperor Wu of Wei. The melody and rhythm are the same as the ancient "Lu Ming".
The second part is called "Weiwei Pian", which praises Emperor Wen of Wei and uses the melody of "Lie Yu" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The third part is called "Yangyang Pian", which sings about Emperor Wei Ming, using the melody of "King Wen" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The fourth part uses "Deer Moo" again.
The melody of "Deer Wu" was reused, while the ancient "Cutting Sandalwood" was removed.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty, "Lu Ming" was also used during meals.
In the fifth year of the Taishi period of the Jin Dynasty, the minister asked Fu Xuan, the imperial servant, Xun Xu, the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and Zhang Hua, the Huangmen minister, to compose songs for ceremonial ceremonies on the first day of the first lunar month, as well as songs for princes and princes to celebrate their longevity with wine, and songs for eating and drinking.
Xun Xu said: The Wei Dynasty repeatedly used the Zhou Dynasty poem "Deer Island" as lyrics when performing rituals and eating.
In addition, "Deer Ming" is used to entertain guests, and has no merit in matters involving the court. Based on the research of old records and legends, I don't know how it is suitable.
Gou Xu removed the old "Lu Ming" song and composed four additional ceremonial poems. First, he stated the significance of the etiquette of meeting the emperor on the first day of the first lunar month as the "Three Dynasties".
He also wrote the poem "Songs for the Birthday of Princes and Dukes at the Zhengdan Conference" and the poem "Songs of Food and Music", totaling thirteen articles.
And because the poems of the Wei Dynasty had two words per sentence, some three words per sentence, some four words per sentence, and some five words per sentence, which were different from ancient poems, I asked Chen Qi, the general in charge of the law.
Chen Qi said: It may not always be appropriate to pair it with metal and stone instruments.
Therefore, Xun Xu’s songs of the Jin Dynasty all used four characters per sentence. Only "The Prince Sending Birthday Wine" had either three characters per sentence or five characters per sentence.
Zhang Hua believes that the poems "Shangshou" and "Shiju" in the Wei Dynasty and those used in the Han Dynasty are uneven in length and sentence, and do not completely conform to the ancient style.
Perhaps because singing according to the melody and rhythm has something to rely on, and understanding the music is enough to prepare the music, and the application of the program is usually beyond the ability of ordinary people to modify.
It has been used throughout the two dynasties and three capitals without any change. Although the words and phrases of the poems are different, and their use and abolition vary with the times, the length of its sentences is completely related to the old ones, and they all have their reasons.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
是以一皆因就，不敢有所改易。
此则华、勖所明异旨也。
时诏又使中书侍郎成公绥亦作焉。
今并采列之云。四厢乐歌
正旦大会行礼歌成公绥
穆穆天子，光临万国。
多士盈朝，莫匪俊德。
流化罔极，王猷允塞。
嘉会置酒，嘉宾充庭。
羽旄曜宸极，钟鼓振泰清。
百辟朝三朝，彧彧明仪形。
济济锵锵，金声玉振。
礼乐具，宴嘉宾。
眉寿祚圣皇，景福惟日新。
群后戾止，有来雍雍。
献酬纳贽，崇此礼容。
丰羞万俎，旨酒千钟。
嘉乐尽宴乐，福禄咸攸同。
乐哉！天下安宁。
道化行，风俗清。
箫《韶》作，咏九成。年丰穰，世泰平。
至治哉，乐无穷。
元首聪明，股肱忠。
澍丰泽，扬清风。
translation: 
Therefore, everything remains the same and I dare not make any changes.
Creation has different meanings explained by Zhang Hua and Xun Xu.
At that time, Xia Shao asked Cheng Gongsui, the minister of Zhongshu, to compose songs and poems.
Now collect and list them together. Four compartment music:
The ceremonial song on the first day of the first lunar month: Cheng Gong Sui
The solemn emperor rules over all nations.
The court is full of talented people, and there are all those who are outstanding in ability and morals.
There is no end to his influence and enlightenment, and his royal way spreads all over the world.
A beautiful banquet is served, and the courtyard is filled with beautiful guests.
Feathered flags shone in the sky, and bells and drums rang between heaven and earth.
Bai Gong came to worship on the first day of the first lunar month, and his literary talent and beauty showed in his appearance.
Talents gather together, the sound of music is sonorous, and the sound of gold is vibrating.
Ceremonial music is provided and guests are entertained.
Let the wise emperor live long and have great blessings renewed every day.
All the ministers came together, and they were graceful and generous.
Toast each other as a greeting gift, and this etiquette behavior is highly respected.
Thousands of delicious dishes and thousands of wines.
Wonderful music brings joy together, and endless blessings are shared.
Joy, peace in the world.
The king's teachings are widespread, and the folk customs are clear and clear.
Beautiful music like the flute "Shao" was played and the song was sung over and over again. The years will be fruitful and the world will be peaceful.
O best rule, joy boundless.
The head of state is smart and loyal.
Like the good rain that nourishes all things, like the warm wind blowing gently.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
嘉瑞出，灵应彰。
麒麟见，凤皇翔。
醴泉涌，流中唐。
嘉禾生，穗盈箱。
降繁祉，祚圣皇。
承天位，统万国。
受命应期，授圣德，四世重光。
宣开洪业，景克昌，文钦明，德弥彰。
肇启晋邦，流祚无疆。
泰始建元，凤皇龙兴。
龙兴伊何，享祚万乘。
奄有八荒，化育黎蒸。
图书既焕，金石有徵。
德光大，道熙隆。
被四表，格皇穹。
奕奕万嗣，明明显融，高朗令终。
保兹永祚，与天比崇。
圣皇君四海，顺人应天期。
三叶合重光，泰始开洪基。
明曜参日月，功化侔四时。
宇宙清且泰，黎庶咸雍熙，善哉雍熙！
惟天降命，翼仁祐圣。
于穆三皇，载德弥盛。
translation: 
Beautiful auspiciousness appears, and psychic induction is revealed.
The unicorn comes out and the phoenix flies.
Li spring gushes and flows through the courtyard.
Harvest crops grow and fill the barns.
May you be blessed and help the Holy Emperor.
Inherit the throne of heaven and rule all nations.
Accept the destiny, comply with the fate, impart holy virtues, and inherit the brilliance of the four generations.
Emperor Xuan established a grand foundation, Emperor Jing carried it forward, Emperor Wen was respectful and discerning, and his virtues were even more evident.
From then on, the Jin Dynasty was founded, and the blessings spread without borders.
The establishment of the first reign title, Taishi, is like a phoenix taking flight.
What is it like to take off and enjoy the blessings of the King of Ten Thousand Vehicles?
Owning remote places in all directions, educating and raising the people.
Books and articles are full of brilliance, and epigraphs and music are represented.
Virtue flourishes and righteousness flourishes.
It affects all directions, reaching up to the sky.
Illuminate for all generations, be brilliant and have a good death.
May you have endless blessings, as high as the sky.
The sage emperor reigns over the world, obeys the people and responds to the expectations of heaven.
Three generations have inherited the glory for eternity and created a magnificent foundation from the beginning.
The light is as bright as the sun and the moon, and merit and enlightenment coexist with the four seasons.
The universe is peaceful and peaceful, and the common people are living in peace and harmony. How wonderful it is to live in peace and harmony!
God has sent great orders to assist benevolent people and protect saints.
The three solemn and great emperors were even more virtuous.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
总齐璇玑，光统七政。
百揆时序，化若神圣。
四海同风，兴至仁。
济民育物，拟陶均。
拟陶均，垂惠润。
皇皇群贤，峨峨英隽。
德化宣，芬芳播来胤。
播来胤，垂后昆。
清庙何穆穆，皇极辟四门。
皇极辟四门，万机无不综。
亹亹翼翼，乐不及荒，饥不遑食。
大礼既行，乐无极。
登昆仑，上层城。
乘飞龙，升泰清。
冠日月，佩五星。
扬虹霓，建篲旌。
披庆云，廕繁荣。
览八极，游天庭。
顺天地，和阴阳。
序四时，曜三光。
张帝纲，正皇纲。
播仁风，流惠康。
迈洪化，振灵威。
怀万方，纳九夷。
朝阊阖，宴紫微。
建五旗，罗钟虡。
列四悬，奏《韶》《武》。
铿金石，扬旌羽。
translation: 
Take over the power and be in charge of the seven political affairs.
All officials are competent and their education is comparable to the rule of gods and saints.
The four seas are of the same style, with supreme benevolence.
Helping the people cultivate all things is comparable to the creation of heaven and earth.
It is comparable to the goodness of heaven and earth that bestows beautiful kindness.
Many outstanding ministers and outstanding talents.
Virtue and enlightenment spread, and the fragrance is passed on to future generations.
Pass it on to future generations and set an example for future generations.
The Imperial Ancestral Temple is so solemn and solemn. The emperor established four Mingtang gates.
The emperor established four gates of the Mingtang, and all state affairs were handled.
Be diligent and tireless, be respectful and prudent, be happy and not be confused and absurd, and be hungry without thinking about eating.
Now that the great gift has been performed, the joy is boundless.
Climb the Kunlun Mountains and walk up to the Upper City.
Ride a flying dragon and rise into the sky.
The sun and moon are used as crowns, and the five stars are used as accessories.
Raise the rainbow and raise the waiting flag.
Dressed in Qingyun and decorated with flowers.
Look at the eight poles and visit the heaven.
Comply with heaven and earth, harmonize yin and yang.
Work and rest according to the four seasons, based on the sun, moon and stars.
Open up the outline of the emperor's business and correct the principles of the dynasty.
Extensively promote benevolent governance and expand favor and prosperity.
Work diligently on the great teachings and promote the mighty power.
Make all directions return home and make Jiuyi pay tribute.
Those who come to worship seem to be in heaven, and the banquet is as if it is arranged on the purple star.
Set up five flags and list Zhong Yu.
Place the four hangings and play "Chi" and "Wu".
The gold and stone are clanging, and the feathers are flying.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
纵八佾，《巴渝舞》。
咏雅颂，和律吕。
于胥乐，乐圣主。
化荡荡，清风泄。
总英雄，御俊杰。
开宇宙，扫四裔。
光缉熙，美圣哲。
超百代，扬休烈。
流景祚，显万世。
皇皇显祖，翼世佐时。
宁济六合，受命应期。神武鹰扬，大化咸熙。
廊开皇衢，用成帝基。
光光景皇，无竞惟烈。
匡时拯俗，休功盖世。
宇宙既康，九域有截。
天命降监，启祚明哲。
穆穆烈考，克明克隽。
实天生德，诞应灵运。
肇建帝业，开国有晋。
载德奕世，垂庆洪胤。
明明圣帝，龙飞在天。
与灵合契，通德幽玄。
仰化青云，俯育重川。
受灵之祐，于万斯年。
正旦大会王公上寿酒歌荀勖
践元辰，延显融。
献羽觞，祈令终。我皇寿而隆，我皇茂而嵩。
本枝奋百世，休祚钟圣躬。
食举乐东西厢歌荀勖
煌煌七曜，重明交暢。
translation: 
Eight hundred people were discharged and danced "Bayu".
Sing elegant songs and harmonize the rules and regulations.
Rejoice together, rejoice with the Holy Lord.
Education is swaying, and the atmosphere is clear.
Lead heroes and drive heroes.
Open up an era and clear out the four descendants.
Brilliant, beautiful sage.
Beyond EMI, carry forward great achievements.
Pass down the emperor's legacy, and his achievements will last forever.
The great one shows his ancestors and saves the world.
Stabilize the sea and accept the destiny. Magical and mighty, great and bright.
Open up the road and achieve the foundation of the emperor.
Brilliant as a pot, incomparable achievements.
Save the people and achieve unparalleled achievements.
The country is healthy and the nine realms are clear.
The destiny comes, and Mingzhe is born.
The solemn ancestor is wise and outstanding.
He is born with virtue and adapts to his spiritual destiny.
Established the imperial industry and founded the Jin Dynasty.
Virtue is passed down from generation to generation, and merit is passed down to future generations.
The Holy Ming Emperor, the dragon soars to the sky.
It is in line with God’s will and understands the principles of heaven.
It looks up to the blue clouds and feeds hundreds of rivers.
Receive blessings for hundreds of millions of years.
On the first day of the first lunar month, there is a song for princes and princes to celebrate their birthdays: Xun Xu enters the first day of the new year, let the light spread.
Offer wine and pray for a better future.
My emperor is long-lived and prosperous, and my emperor's foundation is prosperous and great.
May your good luck be passed down to your descendants for generations.
The Song of Eating and Rejoicing in the East and West Chambers: Xun Xu
The seven shining stars shine brightly.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
我有嘉宾，是应是贶。
邦政既图，接以大飨。
人之好我，式遵德让。
宾之初筵，蔼蔼济济。
既朝乃宴，以洽百礼。
颁以位叙，或庭或陛。
登傧台叟，亦有兄弟。
胥子陪寮，宪兹度楷。
观颐养正，降福孔偕。
昔我三后，大业是维。
今我圣皇，焜炔前晖。
奕世重规，明照九畿。
思辑用光，时罔有违。
陟禹之迹，莫不来威。
天被显禄，福履是绥。
赫矣太祖，克广明德。
廊开宇宙，正世立则。
变化不经，民无瑕慝。
创业垂统，兆我晋国。
烈文伯考，时维帝景。
夷险平乱，威而不猛。
御衡不迷，皇涂焕景。
七德咸宣，其宁惟永。
猗欤盛欤！
先皇圣文。
则天作孚，大哉为君。
translation: 
I have wonderful guests, and I will take care of them and feast them.
The government affairs of the country have been planned, and then a big banquet will be held.
People are friendly to me, observe virtue and courtesy.
The guests began to take their seats and gathered together.
After the court, a banquet was held to harmonize various etiquettes.
The seats are arranged according to official positions, with some at the top and some at the bottom.
Let the three elders take the seat and take care of the brothers.
Small officials and small officials should take this as a rule and model.
Observe the right way of maintaining health, and there will be a lot of blessings from heaven.
In the past, our three emperors laid a great foundation.
Today our Shengming Emperor can match the glory of the previous generations.
From generation to generation, merits and deeds continue, and the light illuminates Jiuji.
What I want is to unite the people and prosper the country, and there will be no contradiction at all times.
Following in the footsteps of Dayu, there is no one who will not be attracted.
God has given you a distinguished position and you can enjoy this blessing.
How great our great ancestor is to carry forward the virtues of the sage.
Open up a new era, correct the world and establish laws.
Change what is absurd so that the people will not make mistakes.
The establishment of a foundation left a legacy and gave the Jin Kingdom a beginning.
The brilliant Bocao was Emperor Jing.
To overcome hardships and put an end to chaos in the world, be mighty but not fierce.
Drive the cart without getting lost, the broad road is bright and bright.
If all seven virtues are promoted, peace and tranquility will be maintained forever.
How prosperous!
The late Emperor Shengming was Emperor Wen.
It is great for a monarch to imitate God and establish integrity.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
慎徽五典，帝载是勤。
文武发挥，茂建嘉勋。
修己济治，民用宁殷。
怀远烛幽，玄教氤氲。
善世不伐，服事三分。
德博化隆，道昌无垠。
隆化洋洋，帝命溥将。
登我晋道，越惟圣王。
龙飞革运，临焘八荒。
睿哲钦明，配踪虞唐。
封建厥福，骏发其祥。
三朝习吉，终然允臧。
其臧维何，总彼万方。
元侯列辟，四岳籓王。
时见世享，率兹有常。
旅揖在庭，嘉客在堂。
宋卫既臻，陈留山阳。
有宾有使，观国之光。
贡贤纳计，献璧奉璋。
保祐命之，申锡无疆。
translation: 
Promote the five canons respectfully and work diligently in the imperial industry.
Literary talents and martial arts were brought into play together, and many wonderful achievements were made.
Self-cultivation is beneficial to governance, and the people are at peace in Yinfu.
It soothes the distant places and cares for the secluded places, and the beautiful teachings cover all directions.
In a peaceful world, there is no conquest and the situation of maintaining the divided world is maintained.
Virtue and government are extensive and enlightening, and Taoism is infinitely prosperous.
The moral integrity is boundless, and the mandate given by the Emperor of Heaven is so vast.
Let us establish the path of the Jin Dynasty and surpass the previous sage kings.
Like a dragon taking flight, it changes fortunes and protects far-flung places in all directions.
He is wise, respectful and discerning, and his deeds are worthy of Yu Shun and Tang Yao.
The feudal land and the founding of the country enjoyed his blessings, and the results of extensive land reclamation and farming were very auspicious.
On the days of the Three Dynasties, I got good omens through divination, and it turned out really good in the end.
To ask what that good looks like, it is to rule over all parties.
Important ministers, high officials, ministers, hundreds of officials, leaders of princes, and kings of vassal states.
Enjoy it from time to time and from generation to generation. Follow these principles and remain unchanged.
Everyone bowed in the court, and guests were guests in the hall.
Song and Wei gathered together, as well as King Chenliu and Duke Shanyang.
Guests and envoys came to see the splendor of the country.
Recommend wise men to propose strategies and offer jade to Guizhang.
Bless them and give them life, and there is no end to your abundant gifts.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
振鹭于飞，鸿渐其翼。
京邑穆穆，四方是式。
无竞维人，王纲允敕。
君子来朝，言观其极。
暠郧大君，民之攸暨。
信理天工，惠康不匮。
将远不仁，训以醇粹。
幽明有伦，俊乂在位。
九族既睦，庶邦顺比。
开元布宪，四海鳞萃。
协时正统，殊涂同致。
厚德载物，灵心隆贵。
敷奏谠言，纳以无讳。
树之典象，诲之义类。
上教如风，下应如卉。
一人有废，群萌以遂。
我后宴喜，令问不坠。
既宴既喜，翕是万邦。
礼仪卒度，物有其容。
晰晰庭燎，喤々鼓钟。
笙磬咏德，万舞象功。
八音克谐，俗易化从。
其和如乐，庶品时邕。
时邕斌斌，六合同尘。
translation: 
Like flocks of egrets gathering together to fly, like swans flying together one after another.
The vast city is majestic and majestic, and it serves as a model in all directions.
Incomparable talents have been gathered, and the royal laws and regulations have been completely rectified.
Gentlemen all came to worship and watch such a grand occasion.
The great and respectful monarch is the dawn of hope for the people.
Carefully handle affairs on behalf of God, and you will never lack blessings and health.
Treat those who are not benevolent and righteous in distant places and teach them with pure and unmixed principles.
There is a hierarchy of good, evil, virtuous and foolish, and outstanding talents obtain positions.
The nine ethnic groups are in harmony, and there is no conflict between the common people and the country.
A constitution was issued to open the era, and people from all over the world came in droves.
According to the current situation, we can rectify and unify the world and achieve the same goal through different ways.
Deep virtue carries all things, and inspiration in the heart elevates noble people.
There was no hesitation in expressing honest opinions to the emperor and adopting them.
Set an example and teach them with good people.
The teachings from above are like the breeze, and the responses from below are like flowers.
When a person has a good idea, everyone rises up to help him succeed.
Our monarch rejoices in his feasts, and his kind greetings are never lost.
The banquet went on and the mood was joyful, making all the countries live in harmony.
The rituals were finally carried out, and things took on their own appearance.
The courtyard is lit by bright torches and the sound of bells and drums is clanging.
The sheng and stone chimes praise virtue and governance, and the ten thousand dances symbolize meritorious deeds.
The sounds of various musical instruments are harmonious, and customs change and education follows.
That kind of harmony is like music, and everything is in peace and harmony.
The world is peaceful, culture and quality are both harmonious, and the heaven, earth and universe are mixed and unified.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
往我祖宣，威静殊邻。
首定荆楚，遂平燕秦。
亹亹文皇，迈德流仁。
爰造草昧，应乾顺民。
灵瑞告符，休徵响震。
天地弗违，以和神人。
既禽庸蜀，吴会是宾。
肃慎率职，楛矢来陈。
韩濊进乐，宫徵清钧。
西旅献獒，扶南效珍。
蛮裔重译，玄齿文身。
我皇抚之，景命惟新。
愔愔嘉会，有闻无声。
清酤既奠，笾豆既升。
礼充乐备，箫《韶》九成。
恺乐饮酒，酣而不盈。
率土欢豫，邦国以宁。
王猷允塞，万载无倾。
冬至初岁小会歌张华
日月不留，四气回周。
节庆代序，万国同休。
庶尹群后，奉寿升朝。
我有寿礼，式宴百僚。
translation: 
Once upon a time, our ancestor Emperor Xuan dominated neighboring countries in all directions.
First, the Jingchu area in the south was pacified, and then the Yan and Qin lands in the north were pacified.
The diligent and tireless Emperor Wen worked hard to cultivate virtue and spread benevolence and righteousness.
From its inception, it followed the will of God and the will of the people.
The auspicious signs shown by heaven coincided time and time again, and the auspicious signs came true one by one.
Heaven and earth are not in conflict with each other, and the relationship between gods and humans is harmonious.
He not only conquered the Yong and Shu areas, but also became the master of Wu Hui.
Su Shen came to pay tribute and presented Zhu arrows, bows and crossbows.
Han Jia presented music, and the palace was clear and harmonious.
Xirong presented mastiff dogs, and tribes in the south presented rare treasures.
Where the Wild Four need multiple translations, those with black teeth or tattoos.
Our emperor reassured them that the great destiny favored the new dynasty.
A beautiful banquet that is harmonious and joyful, has a good reputation and is not noisy.
The sake has been poured and the beans have been put on display.
The ceremony was complete with music, and the flute "Shao" was played.
Drink cheerfully and happily, but not too much.
Everywhere is happy, and the country is at peace.
The royal way is fully implemented and will not change for thousands of generations.
Small gathering song at the beginning of winter solstice: Zhang Hua
The sun and menstruation never stop, and the four seasons come and go.
Seasons and solar terms change, and all nations share blessings.
Hundreds of officials and officials came to the court to celebrate his birthday.
I have prepared birthday gifts to entertain hundreds of officials.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
繁肴绮错，旨酒泉渟。
笙镛和奏，磬管流声。
上隆其爱，下尽其心。
宣其壅滞，训之德音。
乃宣乃训，配享交泰。
永载仁风，长抚无外。
宴会歌张华
亹亹我皇，配天垂光。
留精日昃，经览无方。
听朝有暇，延命众臣。
冠盖云集，樽俎星陈。
肴蒸多品，八珍代变。
羽爵无算，究乐极宴。
歌者流声，舞者投袂。
动容有节，丝竹并设。
宜扬四体，繁手趣挚。
欢足发和，酣不忘礼。
好乐无荒，翼翼济济。
命将出征歌张华
重华隆帝道，戎蛮或不宾。
徐夷兴有周，鬼方亦违殷。
今在盛明世，寇虐动四垠。
translation: 
The sumptuous delicacies are displayed like a brocade, and the sweet wine gathers like spring water without flowing.
The sheng and the flute played harmoniously, and the chime and the pipe emitted a beautiful sound.
The emperor loves me deeply and my subordinates are devoted.
Let out the stagnation in your chest and use the sound of virtue to teach you.
It has been vented and guided, and the emperor and his ministers are of one heart and one mind.
Always maintain the atmosphere of benevolence and righteousness, and be comforted for a long time without any external intentions.
Banquet Song: Zhang Hua
Our industrious and tireless Emperor sends down light like the sky.
Concentrate your energy until the sun turns west, and your governance will be unparalleled.
I have some free time to deal with government affairs, so I invite all my ministers.
Crown ribbons and car hoods gathered like clouds, wine bottles and food utensils were displayed like stars.
There are many varieties of dishes and countless variations in cooking.
Clink glasses countless times and enjoy the feast.
The singers sang and the dancers danced their sleeves.
The movements and gestures have their own rhythm, and the silk and bamboo instruments play together.
The dancing limbs are very appropriate, and the playing technique is complex and measured.
He stamped his feet happily and sang loudly, enjoying himself without forgetting the etiquette.
There is no end to the wonderful joy, respectful, cautious and neat.
Song of ordering soldiers to go to war: Zhang Hua
Emperor Yu and Shun prospered, but some barbarians in Rong and Di refused to obey.
In the Zhou Dynasty, Yuan was arrested for causing rebellion, and some members of the imperial family rebelled.
Nowadays, in the prosperous world, bandits and tyrannical people are active in all directions.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
豺狼染牙爪，群生号穹旻。
元帅统方夏，出车抚凉秦。
众贞必以律，臧否实在人。
威信加殊类，疏逖思自亲。
单醪岂有味，挟纩感至仁。
武功尚止戈，七德美安民。
远迹由斯举，永世无风尘。
劳还师歌张华
玁犭允背天德，构乱扰邦畿。
戎车震朔野，群帅赞皇威。
将士齐心旅，感义忘其私。
积势如郭弩，赴节如发机。
嚣声动山谷，金光曜素晖。
挥戈陵劲敌，武步蹈横尸。
鲸鲵皆授首，北土永清夷。
昔往冒隆暑，今来白雪霏。
征夫信勤瘁，自古咏《采薇》。
收荣于舍爵，燕喜在凯归。
translation: 
The ferocious jackals dyed their fangs and claws red, and the people's wails filled the sky.
The marshal commanded China and sent troops to pacify the Qin region of Liangzhou.
The beauty and kindness of everyone must come from the law, and whether to praise or criticize depends on yourself.
Majesty and integrity are imposed on foreigners, and they are thinking of their own relatives in remote places.
Just the glutinous rice glutinous rice is full of flavor, and care and comfort make people feel true benevolence.
The merits of force are to stop fighting, and the most beautiful of the seven virtues of force is to bring peace to the people.
Great achievements start from here, and there will never be any trouble in going to war.
Song of condolence to the troops returning home: Zhang Hua
The rhinoceros disobeyed the virtue of heaven and caused turmoil to disturb the country.
The military chariots shook the fields of Shuofang, and the commanders praised the emperor's majesty.
The generals and soldiers worked together to fight, grateful for the kindness and forgetting themselves.
The accumulated offensive is like an open crossbow, and rushing to the battlefield is like firing the trigger.
The sound of shouting shook the valley, and the cold light of the golden armor shone brightly on the moon.
He wielded his long sword and charged towards his powerful enemy, stepping onto the corpse with long strides.
Fierce enemies like the whale salamanders all surrendered or were killed, and the northern territories remained peaceful forever.
When I went out, I braved the scorching heat, but now when I come back, the snow is falling.
The men who went on the expedition were indeed working hard, and the song "Plucking Wei" has been sung since ancient times.
Honor is obtained when the armor is taken off, and happiness and joy are obtained when the victory is achieved.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
中宫所歌张华
先王统大业，玄化渐八维。
仪刑孚万邦，内训隆壸闱。
皇英垂帝典，《大雅》咏三妃。
执德宣隆教，正位理厥机。
含章体柔顺，帅礼蹈谦祗。
《螽斯》弘慈惠，《樛木》逮幽微。
徽音穆清风，高义邈不追。
遗荣参日月，百世仰余晖。
宗亲会歌张华
族燕明礼顺，啜食序亲亲。
骨肉散不殊，昆弟岂他人。
本枝笃同庆，《棠棣》著先民。
于皇圣明后，天覆弘且仁。
降礼崇亲戚，旁施协族姻。
式宴尽酣娱，饮御备羞珍。
和乐既宣洽，上下同欢欣。
德教加四海，敦睦被无垠。
translation: 
Song of Zhonggong: Zhang Hua
The late king led a great foundation, and his beautiful teachings affected all directions.
His demeanor convinces all nations, and his internal admonishment and education make the palace honest.
Ehuang and Nvying left the example of Emperor Shun's family, and "Daya" sings of the three women of Zhou Wen and Wang's family.
Maintain virtue and preach honest education, and take care of her loom in the right place.
Containing beauty and showing suppleness, it serves as an example of etiquette and acts of humility.
"Katydid" promotes kindness and virtuousness, while "狋木" involves subtlety.
The good reputation is like a gentle breeze, and the noble morality cannot catch up.
The honor behind them is as high as the sun and the moon, and generations later still look up to their afterglow.
Clan song: Zhang Hua
At family gatherings, the order of etiquette is clearly defined, and those who eat together are those who are close to themselves.
Even if the flesh and blood are separated, there will be no difference. Are the brothers just outsiders?
Just like the roots and branches of a tree, they pay attention to celebrating together, just like the ancestors sung in "Tangdi" have a good brotherly relationship.
O great and sage monarch, protect us with vastness and benevolence like the sky covering the earth.
Put aside the etiquette of monarch and minister to promote kinship, and spread kindness to bring harmony to family in-laws.
Everyone was drinking and having fun at the banquet, and rare delicacies were prepared while drinking.
Harmony and happiness have spread universally, and people from top to bottom are rejoicing and rejoicing together.
Moral education is exerted all over the world, and the influence of honesty and harmony is boundless.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
泰始九年，光禄大夫荀勖以杜夔所制律吕，校太乐、总章、鼓吹八音，与律吕乖错，乃制古尺，作新律吕，以调声韵。
事具《律历志》。
律成，遂班下太常，使太乐、总章、鼓吹、清商施用。
勖遂典知乐事，启朝士解音律者共掌之。
使郭夏、宋识等造《正德》、《大豫》二舞，其乐章亦张华之所作云。正德舞歌张华
日皇上天，玄鉴惟光。
神器周回，五德代章。
祚命于晋，世有哲王。
弘济区夏，陶甄万方。
大明垂曜，旁烛无疆。
蚩蚩庶类，风德永康。
皇道惟清，礼乐斯经。
金石在悬，万舞在庭。
象容表庆，协律被声。
轶《武》超《濩》，取节《六英》。
同进退让，化渐无形。
大和宣洽，通于幽冥。大豫舞歌张华
translation: 
In the ninth year, Baoti, the doctor of Guanglu, used the rhythm and Lu made by silk sculpture to check the various instruments of Taiyue, Zongzhang, and drumming bands. The rhythm and rhythm were inconsistent, so he developed an ancient ruler and made a new rhythm and rhythm.
For details, see "Lü Li Zhi".
After the law was determined, it was promulgated to Taichang for use by Taiyue, Zongzhang, Zhangchuang, and Qingshang.
Xun Xu then took charge of music affairs and asked those in the court who knew music to be jointly responsible for the music.
Guo Xia, Song Shi and others were asked to create two dances, "Zhengde" and "Dayu". The lyrics of the two dances were also written by Zhang Hua. "Zhengde Dance" Song: Zhang Hua
The great God knows everything clearly.
The emperor's artifacts take turns to be owned. The replacement of the five virtues of the dynasty is demonstrated.
God blessed Jin with sages and emperors from generation to generation.
Help China widely and educate all directions.
The great light shines down, illuminating everything without end.
All things of all kinds are honest and ignorant, and their moral character will always be in peace.
The only rule for governing the country is purity and clarity, and ritual and music rely on such implementation.
Golden bells, stone chimes, etc. were hung on the shelves, and Wanwu performed in the court.
The appearance that symbolizes the country shows good omens, and the rhythm of the music is reflected in the pleasant sound.
It broke through the Zhou Dynasty's "Wu" and surpassed Shang Tang's "Yi", and absorbed the essence of rhythm from the emperor Zhuanxu's "Liu Ying".
We should be courteous when moving forward and retreating together, and invisibly straighten out the educational order.
There is general harmony and harmony everywhere, even to the remote and remote places. "Dayu Dance" Song: Zhang Hua


Chunk 26: 
original: 
惟天之命，符运有归。
赫赫大晋，三后重晖。
继明绍世，光抚九围。
我皇绍期，遂在璇玑。
群生属命，奄有庶邦。
慎徽五典，玄教遐通。
万方同轨，率土咸雍。
爰制《大豫》，宣德舞功。
醇化既穆，王道协隆。
仁及草木，惠加昆虫。
亿兆夷人，悦仰皇风。
丕显大业，永世弥崇。
荀勖又作新律笛十二枚，以调律吕，正雅乐，正会殿庭作之，自谓宫商克谐，然论者犹谓勖暗解。
时阮咸妙达八音，论者谓之神解。
咸常心讥勖新律声高，以为高近哀思，不合中和。
每公会乐作，勖意咸谓之不调，以为异己，乃出咸为始平相。
translation: 
God bestows destiny, and great fortune has its destination.
In the great Jin Dynasty, the three late emperors reflected each other.
Inherit the sage and pass it on to future generations, and widely appease the places within the nine regions.
Our emperor inherited the great cause and ascended the throne.
The people obey orders and rule the world.
Respectfully promote the Five Classics, and enlightenment spreads to all sides.
The same system exists in all directions, and everything is harmonious.
So "Dayu" was created to promote virtue and political achievements.
Make the education pure and the royal way harmonious and prosperous.
Charity extends to the vegetation, and favor extends to the insects.
Hundreds of millions of people from all over the world admire the imperial style with joy.
The great and bright foundation is getting more developed from generation to generation.
Xun Xu also created twelve new rhythmic flutes, which were used to adjust the rhythm and standardize elegant music. They were used in the palace and courtyard for formal gatherings. They claimed that they could harmonize the palace and merchants, but the people who discussed it still called Xun Xu "Anjie".
At that time, Ruan Xian was proficient in eight tones, and the commentators called him "Shenjie".
Ruan Xian often criticized Xun Xu's new rhythm in his heart for its high tone, thinking that the high tone was close to sadness and melancholy, which was not in line with the spirit of Zhongzheng and harmony.
Every time the guild played music, Xunxu felt that Ruan Xian thought he was out of tune and regarded him as a dissident, so he transferred Ruan Xian out of the capital to serve as the Prime Minister.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
后有田父耕于野，得周时玉尺，勖以校己所治钟鼓金石丝竹，皆短校一米，于此伏咸之妙，复徵咸归。
勖既以新律造二舞，次更修正钟声。
会勖薨，未竟其业。
元康三年，诏其子籓修定金石，以施郊庙。
寻值丧乱，莫有记之者。
汉高祖自蜀汉将定三秦，阆中范因率賨人以从帝，为前锋。
及定秦中，封因为阆中侯，复賨人七姓。
其俗喜舞，高祖乐其猛锐，数观其舞，后使乐人习之。
阆中有渝水，因其所居，故名曰《巴渝舞》。
舞曲有《矛渝本歌曲》、《安弩渝本歌曲》、《安台本歌曲》、《行辞本歌曲》，总四篇。
其辞既古，莫能晓其句度。
魏初，乃使军谋祭酒王粲改创其词。
translation: 
Later, some farmers were farming in the fields and found that the jade rulers from the Zhou Dynasty, which Xun Xu used to check the bells, drums, gold, stone, silk, bamboo and other musical instruments he made, were all a little short. They were impressed by Ruan Xian's cleverness and recruited Ruan Xian back again.
Xun Xu created two dances based on the new rhythm, and later revised the instruments.
When Xun Xu died, his work was not completed.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xia Shao asked his son Gou Fan to repair musical instruments and use them in suburban sacrifices and ancestral temple sacrifices.
Soon he was in mourning and was not recorded.
Emperor Mo Gaozu sent troops from the Shu Desert to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. Fan Yin from Banzhong led the people from Bindi to follow him and act as the vanguard.
When the Qin Dynasty was pacified, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yan Zhonghou and the seven surnames of the guests were restored.
Their custom was to love dancing. Emperor Gaozu liked their brave elites and watched their dances many times, and later sent Yue to learn from them.
There is a Yushui River in Khotan. According to the place where they live, it is called "Bayu Dance".
The dance music includes "Songs from Mao Yu", "Songs from Annu Yu", "Songs from An Tai" and "Songs from Xingci", a total of four pieces.
The lyrics are very ancient and no one can understand its sentences.
In the early years of the Wei Dynasty, Wang Can, who served as a military adviser and offered wine, was asked to adapt its lyrics.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
粲问巴渝帅李管、种玉歌曲意，试使歌，听之，以考校歌曲，而为之改为《矛渝新福歌曲》、《弩渝新福歌曲》、《安台新福歌曲》、《行辞新福歌曲》，《行辞》以述魏德。
黄初三年，又改《巴渝舞》曰《昭武舞》。
至景初元年，尚书奏，考览三代礼乐遗曲，据功象德，奏作《武始》、《咸熙》、《章斌》三舞，皆执羽龠。
及晋又改《昭武舞》曰《宣武舞》，《羽龠舞》曰《宣文舞》。
咸宁元年，诏定祖宗之号，而庙乐乃停《宣武》、《宣文》二舞，而同用荀勖所使郭夏、宋识等所造《正德》、《大豫》二舞云。
translation: 
Wang Can asked Bayu generals Li Guan and Zhong Yu about the meaning of the songs, and tried to get them to sing them and listen to them. Based on this research, he studied the songs and adapted them into "Maoyu New Fortune Songs", "Zayu New Fortune Songs", "Antai New Fortune Songs", and "Xingci New Fortune Songs". "Xingci" is used to describe the virtues of the Wei Dynasty.
In the third year of Wei Huangchu's reign, "Bayu Dance" was renamed "Zhaowu Dance".
In the first year of Wei Liangchi's reign, the minister of state reviewed and studied the music left by the three generations in terms of ritual music. According to the symbol of merit, it was recommended to create three dances: "Wu Shi", "Xian Xi" and "Zhang Bin", all of which should hold feathers and harps.
In the Jin Dynasty, "Zhaowu Dance" was renamed "Xuanwu Dance" and "Yuxi Dance" was renamed "Xuanwen Dance".
In the first year of Xianning in Jin Dynasty, Xia Shao determined the name of the ancestral temple, so the two dances "Xuanwu" and "Xuanwen" were stopped in the ancestral temple music, and under the same situation, the two dances "Zhengde" and "Dayu" composed by Guo Xia, Song Shi and others were used.


