Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 6, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫性灵之表，不知所以发于咏歌；感动之端，不知所以关于手足。
生于心者谓之道，成于形者谓之用。
譬诸天地，其犹影响，百兽率舞，而况于人乎！美其和平而哀其丧乱，以兹援律，乃播其声焉。
农瑟羲琴，倕钟和磬，达灵成性，象物昭功，由此言之，其来自远。
殷氏不纲，遗风馀孽，淫奏既兴，雅章奔散，《英》《茎》之制，盖已微矣。
孔子曰： 人能弘道，非道弘人。
周始二《南》，《风》兼六代。
昔黄帝作《云门》，尧作《咸池》，舜作《大韶》，禹作《大夏》，殷作《大濩》，周作《大武》，所谓因前王之礼，设俯仰之容，和顺积中，英华发外。
《书》称命夔典乐，教胄子，则《周官》所谓奏大吕，歌黄钟。
天贶来下，人祗动色，抑扬周监，以弘雅音。
translation: 
The expression of spirituality, for some reason, turns to chanting; the expression of emotion, for some reason, involves the hands and feet.
What arises from the heart is called Tao, and what is reflected in images is called Yong.
It is also influential to use this principle to look at the heaven and earth. All animals dance together, not to mention humans. They praise peace and mourn for chaos. In this case, the use of music can spread the sound.
Shennong made the harp and Fuxi made the harp, and then made the bell and the chime to express the soul and temperament, and to imitate the achievements of all things. From this point of view, its origin is very old.
The Yin Shang Dynasty had no discipline and left behind a very bad atmosphere. After the rise of obscene music, elegant music was lost and scattered. Works such as "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems" have declined.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.
Starting from the Zhou Dynasty, there were two "Southern", and "Guofeng" was compatible with six generations.
In the past, the Yellow Emperor wrote "Yunmen", Yao wrote "Xianchi", Shun wrote "Da Shao", Yu wrote "Da Xia", Yin wrote "Da Xi", and Zhou wrote "Ren Wu". It is said that they inherited the etiquette of the virtuous kings of the previous generation and formulated the etiquette of bowing and behaving. The accumulation of gentleness is included, and the elegance is expressed on the outside.
"Shang Shu" said that Kui was ordered to take charge of music and teach the noble children, which is what "Zhou Guan" said about playing Da Lu and singing Huang Zhong.
When God's gift came down, people looked respectful and solemn, inheriting the glory of the Zhou Dynasty and promoting elegant music.

summary:
summary line 0: The history of music and ritual in China from ancient times to the Jin Dynasty, emphasizing their spiritual and emotional significance. Spirituality and emotion are expressed through chanting and physical movement, with the heart's essence called Tao and its reflection in images called Yong. Music is used to spread sound, praise peace, and mourn chaos. Ancient sages like Shennong and Fuxi created instruments such as harps, bells, and chimes to express the soul and imitate nature. The Yin Shang Dynasty saw a decline in elegant music due to obscene influences, leading to the loss of works like "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems." Confucius remarked that people can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
及褒艳兴灾，平王逢乱，礼废亲疏，乐沈河海。
是以延陵季子闻歌《小雅》曰： 其周德之衰乎！犹有先王之遗风焉。
而列壤称孤，各兴吟咏。
魏文侯聆古乐而恐卧，晋平公听新声而忘食，先王之道，渐以陵夷。
八方殊风，九州异则。
秦氏并吞，遂专刑宪，至于弦歌《诗》《颂》，干戚旄羽，投诸烟火，扫地无遗。
汉祖提剑寰中，削平天下，文匪躬于德化，武有心于制作。
太后摈儒家之道，大臣排贾氏之言，搢绅先生所以长叹，而子政、仲舒犹不能已也。
炎汉中兴，明皇帝即位，表圭景而陈《清庙》，树槐阴而疏璧流；祀光武于明堂，以配上帝；召桓荣于太学，袒而割牲；济济焉，皇皇焉，有足观者。
translation: 
When Bao Si Yan Ji caused disaster, King Ping was in troubled times, etiquette was destroyed, relatives were alienated, and elegant music was lost in the rivers and seas.
Therefore, Yanling Jizi heard the song "Xiaoya" and said: "Probably it is the decline of virtue in the Zhou Dynasty that still has the legacy of the previous kings."
And the nations became kings and raised their own music.
Marquis Wen of Wei was afraid of falling asleep when he heard the music of ancient kings. Duke Ping of Jin forgot to eat when he heard new music. The way of the kings gradually declined because of this.
The customs are different in all directions, and the practices in Kyushu are different.
The Qin family annexed the world and unified the legal system. As for Xiange "Poetry". "Ode" and other works, Qian Qi Yanyu and other props were all thrown into the fireworks, and nothing was left behind.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his sword to revolt and pacified the world. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty devoted all his efforts to implement moral education, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty devoted himself to making rituals and music.
The Queen Mother abandoned Confucianism, and the ministers rejected Jia's remarks. Mr. Wu Shen sighed deeply, but Zizheng and Dong Zhongshu still could not give up.
When the Cambodian-Han Dynasty resurgence, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne, Li Tugui watched the shadow of the sun and used "Song of Zhou". In the "Qing Temple", a pagoda market was established to carry out enlightenment; in the Mingtang, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped to be worthy of enjoying God; Huan Rong was summoned to the Imperial Academy to perform the circumcision ceremony in person; it was solemn, solemn, grand and solemn, and it was worth seeing.

summary:
summary line 1: From the Zhou Dynasty onward, various rulers composed music, including the Yellow Emperor's "Yunmen," Yao's "Xianchi," and others. The text describes how music and ritual were used to educate and govern, with the "Shang Shu" and "Zhou Guan" referencing the teaching of music to noble children. However, during the reign of King Ping, etiquette was destroyed, and elegant music was lost. Yanling Jizi noted that the Zhou Dynasty's decline still retained the legacy of previous kings. As nations rose, they created their own music, leading to a gradual decline in the way of kings. The Qin Dynasty unified the world but destroyed all musical works and instruments. The Han Dynasty revived music and ritual under Emperors Gaozu, Wen, and Wu, though Confucianism was abandoned. Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty further promoted rituals and music, establishing a pagoda market and performing ceremonies in the Mingtang.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
汉自东京大乱，绝无金石之乐，乐章亡缺，不可复知。
及魏武平荆州，获汉雅乐郎河南杜夔，能识旧法，以为军谋祭酒，使创定雅乐。
时又有散骑侍郎邓静、尹商善训雅乐，歌师尹胡能歌宗庙郊祀之曲，舞师冯肃、服养晓知先代诸舞，夔悉总领之。
远详经籍，近采故事，考会古乐，始设轩悬钟磬。
而黄初中柴玉、左延年之徒，复以新声被宠，改其声韵。
及武帝受命之初，百度草创。
泰始二年，诏郊祀明堂礼乐权用魏仪，遵周室肇称殷礼之义，但改乐章而已，使傅玄为之词云。
祀天地五郊夕牲歌
天命有晋，穆穆明明。
我其夙夜，祗事上灵。
常于时假，迄用其成。
于荐玄牡，进夕其牲。
translation: 
After the chaos in Tokyo in the Han Dynasty, there was no epigraphic music at all, and the music was scattered and incomplete, and can no longer be known.
When Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty pacified Jingzhou, Du Kui, a native of Henan, who was appointed Yale Lang in the Han Dynasty, remembered the old rules and regulations, appointed him as a military adviser, and asked him to create Yale.
At that time, there were also Sanqi ministers Deng Jing and Yin Shang who were good at singing elegant music, singer Yin Hu who could sing songs for the ancestral temple suburbs, dancers Feng Su and Fu Yang who were familiar with the various dances of the ancestors, and Du Kui led them all.
They studied classic ancient books in detail, collected old stories and legends recently, studied ancient music, and began to set up shelves to hang bells and chimes.
However, during the early years of the Huang Dynasty, people such as Chai Yu and Zuo Yannian became favored because of new music, which changed the charm of their music.
In the early days when Emperor Wu of Jin received his destiny, everything was in the preliminary stage.
In the second year of Taishi, an edict was issued stating that the rituals and music of the Suburban Sacrifice Mingtang should be based on the rituals of the Wei Dynasty. In compliance with the principle that the Zhou Dynasty adopted the Yin and Shang ritual systems at the beginning, it was only necessary to modify the lyrics and let Fu Xuan compose the lyrics for the music.
Sacrifice songs for heaven and earth and the five suburbs:
God gave the Jin Dynasty his destiny because the way of heaven was far-reaching and the emperor was virtuous.
I will work day and night to serve God reverently.
Always comes on time and waits until ready.
A black bull is sacrificed, and one comes on the eve of the sacrifice to view the animals prepared for sacrifice.

summary:
summary line 2: The text details various types of music, including great music for the world, sacrificial music for ancestral temples, and ceremonial music for different occasions. It explains the five tones (palace, shang, jiao, zheng, yu) and their associations with virtues and emotions, as well as the eight sounds (stone, leather, bamboo, wood, silk, earth, metal) and their corresponding winds. The twelve pitches (six yang and six yin) are linked to the twelve months and their characteristics. After the Han Dynasty's chaos, music was scattered. Emperor Wu of Wei appointed Du Kui to create Yale, but new music later changed its charm. Emperor Wu of Jin initially based rituals on the Wei Dynasty, with Fu Xuan composing lyrics for various sacrifices, including songs for heaven and earth, the five suburbs, and ancestral temples.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
及太和中，左延年改夔《驺虞》、《伐檀》、《文王》三曲，更自作声节，其名虽存，而声实异。
唯因夔《鹿鸣》，全不改易。
每正旦大会，太尉奉璧，群后行礼，东厢雅乐常作者是也。
后又改三篇之行礼诗。
第一日《于赫篇》，咏武帝，声节与古《鹿鸣》同。
第二曰《巍巍篇》，咏文帝，用延年所改《驺虞》声。
第三日《洋洋篇》，咏明帝，用延年所改《文王》声。
第四曰复用《鹿鸣》。
《鹿鸣》之声重用，而除古《伐檀》。
及晋初，食举亦用《鹿鸣》。
至泰始五年，尚书奏，使太仆傅玄、中书监荀勖、黄门侍郎张华各造正旦行礼及王公上寿酒、食举乐歌诗。
荀勖云： 魏氏行礼、食举，再取周诗《鹿鸣》以为乐章。
又《鹿鸣》以宴嘉宾，无取于朝，考之旧闻，未知所应。
勖乃除《鹿鸣》旧歌更作行礼诗四篇，先陈三朝朝宗之义。
又为正旦大会、王公上寿歌诗并食举乐歌诗，合十三篇。
又以魏氏歌诗或二言，或三言，或四言，或五言，与古诗不类，以问司律中郎将陈颀。
颀曰： 被之金石，未必皆当。
故勖造晋歌，皆为四言，唯王公上寿酒一篇为三言五言焉。
张华以为 魏上寿、食举诗及汉氏所施用，其文句长短不齐，未皆合古。
盖以依咏弦节，本有因循，而识乐知音，足以制声度曲，法用率非凡近之所能改。
二代三京，袭而不变，虽诗章辞异，兴废随时，至其韵逗留曲折，皆系于旧，有由然也。
translation: 
During the Taihe period of the Wei Dynasty, Zuo Yannian adapted Du Kui's three pieces, "Lie Yu", "Fa Tan" and "King Wen", and created his own melody and beat. Although the name was retained, the melody was actually different.
Only Du Kui's "Lu Wu" was used without any changes.
Whenever there is a general meeting on the first day of the first lunar month, the Taiwei holds the jade and the ministers salute, and that is the elegant music that is often played in Shuxiang.
Later, three more poems were adapted and used as ceremonial poems.
The first part is called "Yu He Pian", which praises Emperor Wu of Wei. The melody and rhythm are the same as the ancient "Lu Ming".
The second part is called "Weiwei Pian", which praises Emperor Wen of Wei and uses the melody of "Lie Yu" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The third part is called "Yangyang Pian", which sings about Emperor Wei Ming, using the melody of "King Wen" adapted by Zuo Yannian.
The fourth part uses "Deer Moo" again.
The melody of "Deer Wu" was reused, while the ancient "Cutting Sandalwood" was removed.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty, "Lu Ming" was also used during meals.
In the fifth year of the Taishi period of the Jin Dynasty, the minister asked Fu Xuan, the imperial servant, Xun Xu, the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and Zhang Hua, the Huangmen minister, to compose songs for ceremonial ceremonies on the first day of the first lunar month, as well as songs for princes and princes to celebrate their longevity with wine, and songs for eating and drinking.
Xun Xu said: The Wei Dynasty repeatedly used the Zhou Dynasty poem "Deer Island" as lyrics when performing rituals and eating.
In addition, "Deer Ming" is used to entertain guests, and has no merit in matters involving the court. Based on the research of old records and legends, I don't know how it is suitable.
Gou Xu removed the old "Lu Ming" song and composed four additional ceremonial poems. First, he stated the significance of the etiquette of meeting the emperor on the first day of the first lunar month as the "Three Dynasties".
He also wrote the poem "Songs for the Birthday of Princes and Dukes at the Zhengdan Conference" and the poem "Songs of Food and Music", totaling thirteen articles.
And because the poems of the Wei Dynasty had two words per sentence, some three words per sentence, some four words per sentence, and some five words per sentence, which were different from ancient poems, I asked Chen Qi, the general in charge of the law.
Chen Qi said: It may not always be appropriate to pair it with metal and stone instruments.
Therefore, Xun Xu’s songs of the Jin Dynasty all used four characters per sentence. Only "The Prince Sending Birthday Wine" had either three characters per sentence or five characters per sentence.
Zhang Hua believes that the poems "Shangshou" and "Shiju" in the Wei Dynasty and those used in the Han Dynasty are uneven in length and sentence, and do not completely conform to the ancient style.
Perhaps because singing according to the melody and rhythm has something to rely on, and understanding the music is enough to prepare the music, and the application of the program is usually beyond the ability of ordinary people to modify.
It has been used throughout the two dynasties and three capitals without any change. Although the words and phrases of the poems are different, and their use and abolition vary with the times, the length of its sentences is completely related to the old ones, and they all have their reasons.

summary:
summary line 3: The text includes numerous songs and poems used in rituals, such as those for the first day of the first lunar month, sacrifices to heaven and earth, and ancestral temple ceremonies. It describes the evolution of music under different rulers, including the adaptation of old melodies by Zuo Yannian and the creation of new songs by Xun Xu and Zhang Hua. Xun Xu developed new rhythmic flutes and adjusted the pitch, though Ruan Xian criticized the high tone as sorrowful. The text concludes with the history of the "Bayu Dance," which originated from the Banshun people and was adapted by Wang Can during the Wei Dynasty. In the Jin Dynasty, it was renamed "Xuanwu Dance" and later replaced by "Zhengde" and "Dayu" dances.

