Chunk 0: 
original: 
曹沫者，鲁人也，以勇力事鲁庄公。
庄公好力。
曹沫为鲁将，与齐战，三败北。
鲁庄公惧，乃献遂邑之地以和。
犹复以为将。
齐桓公许与鲁会于柯而盟。
桓公与庄公既盟于坛上，曹沫执匕首劫齐桓公，桓公左右莫敢动，而问曰： 子将何欲？
曹沫曰： 齐强鲁弱，而大国侵鲁亦甚矣。
今鲁城坏即压齐境，君其图之。
桓公乃许尽归鲁之侵地。
既已言，曹沫投其匕首，下坛北面就群臣之位颜色不变，辞令如故。
桓公怒，欲倍其约。
管仲曰： 不可。
夫贪小利以自快，弃信于诸侯，矢天下之援，不如与之。
于是桓公乃遂割鲁侵地，曹沫三战所亡地尽复予鲁。
其后百六十有七年而吴有专诸之事。
专诸者，吴堂邑人也：伍子胥之亡楚而如吴也，知专诸之能。
伍子胥既见吴王僚，说以伐楚之利。
吴公子光曰： 彼伍员父兄皆死于楚而员言伐楚，欲自为报私雠也，非能为吴。
吴王乃止。
伍子胥知公子光之欲杀吴王僚。乃曰： 彼光将有内志，未可说以外事。
乃进专诸于公子光。
光之父曰吴王诸樊。
诸樊弟三人：次曰余祭，次曰夷昧，次曰季子札。
诸樊知季子札贤而不立太子，以次传三弟，欲卒致国于季子札。
诸樊既死，传余祭。
余祭死，传夷昧。
夷昧死，当传季子札；季子札逃不肯立，吴人乃立夷昧之子僚为王。
公子光曰： 使以兄弟次邪，季子当立；必以子乎，则光真适嗣，当立。
故尝阴养谋臣以求立。
光既得专诸，善客待之。
九年而楚平王死。
春，吴王僚欲因楚丧，使其二弟公子盖余、属庸将兵围楚之灊；使延陵季子于晋，以观诸侯之变。
楚发兵绝吴将盖余、属庸路，吴兵不得还。
于是公子光谓专诸曰： 此时不可失，不求何获!
且光真王嗣，当立，季子虽来，不吾废也。
专诸曰： 王僚可杀也：母老子弱，而两弟将兵伐楚，楚绝其后。
方今吴外困于楚，而内空无骨鲠之臣，是无如我何。
公子光顿首曰： 光之身，子之身也。
四月丙子，光伏甲士于窟室中，而具酒请王僚。王僚使兵陈自宫至光之家，门户阶陛左右，皆王僚之亲戚也。
translation: 
Cao Mo was from the state of Lu, and served Duke Zhuang of Lu with bravery and strength.
Duke Zhuang loves brave people.
Cao Mo served as the general of Lu and fought with Qi, being defeated many times and fled.
Duke Zhuang of Lu was afraid, so he offered up Suiyi area to seek peace.
But Cao Mo was still appointed as general.
Duke Huan of Qi agreed to meet with Duke Zhuang of Lu in Ke Di and make an alliance.
After Duke Huan and Duke Zhuang made an alliance on the altar, Cao Mo threatened Duke Huan with a dagger. No one in Duke Huan's bodyguard dared to move rashly. Duke Huan asked, "What are you going to do?"
Cao Mo replied: Qi is strong and Lu is weak, so it would be too much to invade Lu with a big country.
Now if the capital of Lu falls, it will hit the border of Qi. You need to consider this issue.
So Duke Huan of Qi promised to return all the occupied land of Lu.
After he finished speaking, Cao Mo dropped his dagger, walked down from the altar, and returned to where the courtiers were sitting, facing north, his expression unchanged, and his conversation calm as usual.
Duke Huan was very angry and planned to break the covenant.
Guan Zhong said: No.
If you covet small profits for temporary pleasure, you will lose credibility in front of the princes and lose the support of the people in the world. It is better to return the land to Lu.
So, Duke Huan of Qi returned the occupied land of Lu as agreed, and all the land that Cao Mo had lost in many battles returned to Lu.
One hundred and sixty-seven years later, there were Zhuan Zhu's deeds in the state of Wu.
Zhuanzhu was from Wu Guotang. When Wu Zixu fled Chu and went to Wu, he knew that Zhuan Zhu had skills.
After Wu Zixu went to see King Liao of Wu, he persuaded him about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Wu Gongziguang said: That Wu Yuan's father and brother were all killed by the Chu State. Wu Yuan just wanted to attack the Chu State. He did it to avenge his own personal revenge and did not really think about the Wu State.
The king of Wu no longer discussed the attack on Chu.
Wu Zixu knew that Young Master Guang planned to kill King Liao of Wu, so he said: That Young Master Guang has an attempt to seize the throne at home, and we cannot persuade him to send troops abroad yet.
So he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang.
The father of Prince Guang was Zhufan, King of Wu.
Zhufan had three younger brothers: in order of brotherhood, the eldest brother was called Yuji, the second brother was called Yimei, and the youngest brother was called Ji Zha.
Zhufan knew that Ji Zha was a virtuous man, so he did not make his son the crown prince. Instead, he wanted to pass on the throne in the order of brothers, and finally pass the throne to Ji Zha.
After Zhufan died, the throne was passed to Yuji.
After Yuji's death, he passed it on to Yimei.
After Yimei's death, it should have been passed down to Jiziza, but Jiziza avoided and refused to be made king, so the people of Wu made Yimei's son Liao their king.
Prince Guang said: If the order of brothers is to be followed, the youngest son should be established; if it must be passed on to the son, then I am the real legitimate son, and I should be made the king.
Therefore, he often secretly supported some wise people in order to obtain the throne with their help.
After Prince Guang got Zhuanzhu, he treated him well like a guest.
In the ninth year of King Liao of Wu, King Ping of Chu died.
In the spring of this year, King Liao of Wu wanted to take advantage of the funeral of Chu State and sent his two younger brothers, Gongzi Gaiyu and Shuyong, to lead an army to surround the city of Ji of Chu State. He also sent the youngest son of Yanling to Jin State to observe the activities of various vassal states.
The Chu State sent out its troops and cut off Wu generals Gaiyu and Shuyong's retreat. The Wu army could not return.
At this time, Gongzi Guang said to Zhuan Zhu: This opportunity cannot be missed. If you don't fight for it, you will never get it!
Besides, I am the true heir and should be made king. Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not depose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: Wang Liao can be killed. Mother and son were weak, so the two younger brothers led the army to attack the Chu State. The Chu State army cut off their retreat.
At present, the Wu army is besieged by the Chu State outside, but there are no loyal ministers who are upright and outspoken in the country. What else can King Liao do to us?
Gongzi Guang kowtowed his head and said: My Gongzi Guang's body is your body, and I will be responsible for everything after your death.
On Bingzi day in April of this year, Gongzi Guang ambushed the warriors in armor in the basement and prepared a banquet for King Wu. King Liao sent guards to line up from the palace to Gongzi Guang's home. On both sides of the door and steps were King Liao's cronies.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
夹立侍，皆持长铍。
酒既酣，公子光详为足疾，入窟室中，使专诸置首鱼炙之腹中而进之。
既至王前，专诸擘鱼，因以首刺王僚，王僚立死。
左右亦杀专诸，王人扰乱。
公子光出其伏甲以攻王僚之徒。尽灭之，遂自立为王，是为阖闾。
阖闾乃封专诸之子以为上卿，
其后七十余年而晋有豫让之事。
豫让者，晋人也，故尝事范氏及中行氏，而无所知名去而事智伯，智伯甚尊宠之。
及智伯伐赵襄子，赵襄子与韩、魏合谋灭智伯，灭智伯之后而三分其地。
赵襄子最怨智伯，漆其头以为饮器。
豫让遁逃山中，曰： 嗟乎!
士为知己者死，女为说己者容。
今智伯知我，我必为报仇而死，以报智伯，则吾魂魄不愧矣。
乃变名姓为刑人，入宫涂厕，中挟匕首，欲以刺襄子。
襄子如厕，心动，执问涂厕之刑人，则豫让，内持刀兵，曰： 欲为智伯报仇！
左右欲诛之。
襄子曰： 彼义人也，吾谨避之耳。
且智伯亡无后，而其臣欲为报仇，此天下之贤人也。
卒释去之。
居顷之，豫让又漆身为厉，吞炭为哑，使形状不可知，行乞于市。
其妻不识也。
行见其友，其友识之，曰： 汝非豫让邪？ 曰： 我是也。
其友为泣曰： 以子之才，委质而臣事襄子，襄子必近幸子。
近幸子，乃为所欲，顾不易邪？
何乃残身苦形，欲以求报襄子，不亦难乎！
豫让曰： 既已委质臣事人，而求杀之，是怀二心以事其君也。
且吾所为者极难耳！然所以为此者，将以愧天下后世之为人臣怀二心以事其君者也。
既去，顷之，襄子当出，豫让伏于所当过之桥下。
襄子至桥，马惊，襄子曰： 此必是豫让也。
translation: 
They stood in the aisle, all holding spears.
When the wine was intoxicating, Prince Guang pretended to have a foot problem, went into the basement, and asked Zhuanzhu to put the dagger into the belly of the grilled fish, and then presented the fish to him.
When he came to King Liao, Zhuan Zhu broke open the fish and stabbed King Liao with his dagger. King Liao died at that time.
The guards also killed Zhuan Zhu, and King Liao's men were in chaos for a while.
Prince Guang sent out an ambush of warriors to attack King Liao's men, and wiped them all out. He then proclaimed himself king, and became King Helu of Wu.
Helu then granted Zhuanzhu's son the title of Shangqing.
Over the next seventy years, Yurang's deeds were recorded in the state of Jin.
Yu Rang was a native of Jin. He had served the Fan family and the Zhongxing family in the past, but he had no reputation. He left them to serve Zhibo, who respected and favored him very much.
When Zhibo attacked Zhao Xiangzi, Zhao Xiangzi, Han and Wei jointly planned to destroy Zhibo. After Zhibo was destroyed, the three families divided his territory.
Zhao Xiangzi hated Zhibo the most, so he painted his skull into a drinking vessel.
Yurang fled to the mountains and said, "Oh!
A man should die for someone who understands him, and a good woman should dress up for someone who loves her.
Now that Uncle Zhi is my confidant, I will definitely avenge him and sacrifice my life to repay Uncle Zhi. Then even if I die, my soul will have nothing to be ashamed of.
So he changed his name and surname, pretended to be a person who had been tortured, entered Zhao Xiang's womb to repair the toilet, and hid a dagger on his body, intending to use it to assassinate Zhao Xiangzi.
Zhao Xiangzi went to the toilet, his heart palpitated, and he questioned the prisoner who was repairing the toilet, and found out that it was Yu Rang, with a sharp knife hidden in his clothes. Yu Rang said: "I want to avenge Zhibo!"
The guards want to kill him.
Xiangzi said: He is a righteous man, I just need to avoid him cautiously.
Moreover, after Zhibo died without an heir, and his retainers wanted to avenge him, he was a wise man in the world.
Finally he left.
Not long after, Yurang smeared paint on his body again, making his skin swollen and rotten, as if he had leprosy. He swallowed charcoal and his voice became hoarse, making his body and appearance unrecognizable, and he begged for food on the street.
Even his wife doesn't recognize him anymore.
I met his friend on the road, recognized him, and said, "Aren't you Yu Rang?" Answered: It's me.
His friend shed tears for him and said: With your talents, you will devote yourself to serving Zhao Xiangzi. Xiangzi will definitely be close to you and love you.
Isn’t it easy to be close to you and do whatever you want?
Why bother to mutilate your body and disfigure your appearance? Isn't it more difficult to achieve the purpose of revenge against Zhao Xiangzi in this way?
Yurang said: "After entrusting yourself to serve someone, you then want to kill him. This is a monarch who serves him with a different intention."
I know that it is very difficult to choose this approach, but the reason why I chose this approach is to make future generations of ministers in the world feel ashamed who serve the king with different intentions!
After Yurang finished speaking, he left. Soon, Xiangzi was catching up to go out, and Yurang hid under the bridge that he must pass by.
When Xiangzi came to the bridge, the horse was frightened. Xiangzi said: "This must be Yurang."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
使人问之，果豫让也，于是襄子乃数豫上曰： 子不尝事范、中行氏乎？
智伯尽灭之，而子不为报仇，而反委质臣于智伯，智伯亦已死矣，而子独何以为之报仇之深也？
豫让曰： 臣事范、中行氏，范、中行氏皆众人遇我，我故众人报之。
至于智伯，国士遇我，我故国士报之。
襄子喟然叹息而泣曰： 嗟乎豫子！
子之为智伯，名既成矣，而寡人赦子，亦已足矣。
子其自为计，寡人不复释子！
使兵围之。
豫让曰： 臣闻明主不掩人之美，而忠臣有死名之义。
前君已宽赦臣，天下莫不称君之贤。
今曰之事，臣固伏诛，然愿请君之衣而击之焉以致报仇之意，则虽死不恨。
非所敢望也，敢布腹心！
于是襄子大义之，乃使使持衣与豫让。
豫让拔剑三跃而击之，曰： 吾可以下报智伯矣！
遂伏剑自杀。
死之曰赵国志士闻之，皆为涕泣。
其后四十余年而轵有聂政之事。
聂政者，轵深井里人也。
杀人避仇，与母、姊如齐，以屠为事。
久之，濮阳严仲子事韩哀侯，与韩相侠累有郤。
严仲子恐诛，亡去，游求人可以报侠累者。
至齐，齐人或言聂政勇敢士也，避仇隐于屠者之间。
严仲子至门请，数反，然后具酒自畅聂政母前。
酒酣，严仲子奉黄金百溢，前为聂政母寿。
聂政惊怪其厚，固谢严仲子：严仲子固进，而聂政谢曰： 臣幸有老母，家贫，客游以为狗屠，可以旦夕得甘毳以养亲。亲供养备，不敢当仲子之赐。
严仲子辟人，因为聂政言曰： 臣有仇，而行游诸侯众矣；然至齐，窃闻足下义甚高，故进百金者，将用为大人粗粝之费，得以交足下之骥，岂敢以有求望邪！
聂政曰： 臣所以降志辱身居市井屠者徒幸以养老母；老母在，政身未敢以许人也。
严仲子固让，聂政竞不肯受也。
translation: 
I sent someone to check, and it turned out to be Yu Rang. So Xiangzi listed his sins and accused him, saying: Didn't you once serve the Fan family and the Zhongxing family?
Zhibo wiped them all out, but instead of avenging them, you pretended to be Zhibo's retainer. Zhibo is dead, why are you so eager to avenge him?
Yu Rang said: I serve the Fan family and the Zhongxing family, and they treat me as an ordinary person, so I repay them like an ordinary person.
As for Zhibo, he treats me as a national scholar, so I repay him like a national scholar.
Xiangzi sighed and said with tears: Oh, Mr. Yurang!
You have become famous by avenging Uncle Zhi; and it is enough for me to forgive you.
You should make your own plan, I can't let you go anymore!
Order the soldiers to surround him.
Yu Rang said: I have heard that a wise monarch does not bury the reputation of others, and loyal ministers are willing to die for their reputation.
You forgave me before, and no one in the world did not praise your wisdom.
I should have suffered the death penalty for what happened today, but I hope I can get your clothes and prick it a few times. This will fulfill my desire for revenge. Then, even if I die, I will have no regrets.
I dare not expect you to agree to my request, but I still venture to speak my mind!
So Xiangzi admired his chivalry very much and sent someone to bring his clothes to Yurang.
Yu Rang pulled out his sword, jumped up and stabbed it many times, saying: "I can use it to repay Uncle Zhi for being under the Nine Springs!"
So he committed suicide with his sword.
On the day of his suicide, all the people with lofty ideals in Zhao State cried for him when they heard the news.
More than forty years have passed since then, and there are stories of Nie Zheng in Zhi.
Nie Zheng was a native of Shenjing, Zhiyi.
In order to avoid killing people, he fled to Qi State with his mother and sister, and slaughtered livestock as a profession.
After a long time, Yan Zhongzi of Puyang served Han Aihou and developed a grudge against Xia Lei, the Prime Minister of South Korea.
Yan Zhongzi was afraid of being killed and ran away. He traveled around, looking for someone who could avenge Xia Lei on his behalf.
When he arrived in Qi State, some people in Qi State said that Nie Zheng was a brave man because he avoided his enemies and hid among the butchers.
Yan Zhongzi visited Nie Zheng's house and made many trips. Then he prepared a banquet and personally held a cup to toast Nie Zheng's mother.
When he was very happy after drinking, Yan Zhongzi presented a hundred yi of gold to his mother Nie Zheng to celebrate her birthday.
Nie Zheng was surprised by the generous gift and refused Yan Zhongzi firmly. However, Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it away. Nie Zheng declined and said: I am fortunate to have my mother alive. Although my family is poor, she lives here as a guest and kills pigs and dogs. I buy some sweet and crunchy things in the morning and evening to feed my mother. My mother's support is quite complete, but I dare not accept Zhongzi's reward.
Yan Zhongzi avoided others and took the opportunity to say to Nie Zheng: I have an enemy. I traveled to many vassal states and could not find anyone to avenge me. But when I came to Qi, I heard privately that you are very loyal, so I offered a hundred gold as the cost of some coarse grain for your mother. I can also make friends with you. How dare I ask for anything else!
Nie Zheng said: The reason why I have humbled my ambition and humiliated my status and become a butcher in this market is just to support my mother. While my mother is still alive, I dare not commit myself to others.
Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it as a gift, but Nie Zheng still refused to accept it.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
然严仲子卒备宾主之礼而去。
久之，聂政母死。既已葬，除服，聂政曰： 嗟乎!
政乃市井之人，鼓刀以屠；而严仲子乃诸侯之卿相也，不远千里，枉车骑而交臣。
臣之所以待之，至浅鲜矣，未有大功可以称者，而严仲子奉百金为亲寿，我虽不受，然是者徒深知政也。
夫贤者以感忿睚眦之意而亲信穷僻之人，而政独安得嘿然而已乎！
且前曰要政，政徒以老母；老母今以天年终，政将为知己者用。
乃遂西至濮阳，见严仲子曰： 前曰所以不许仲子者，徒以亲在；今不幸而母以天年终。
仲子所欲报仇者为谁？
请得从事焉！
严仲子具告曰： 臣之仇韩相侠累，侠累又韩君之季父也，宗族盛多，居处兵卫甚设，臣欲使人刺之，终莫能就。
今足下幸而不弃，请益其车骑壮士可为足下辅翼者。
聂政曰： 韩之与卫，相去中间不甚远，今杀人之相，相又国君之亲，此其势不可以多人，多人不能无生得失，生得失则语泄，语泄是韩举国而与仲子为雠，岂不殆哉！
遂谢车骑人徒，聂政乃辞独行。
杖剑至韩，韩相侠累方坐府上，持兵戟而卫侍者甚众。
聂政直入，上阶刺杀侠累，左右大乱聂政大呼，所击杀者数十人，因自皮面决眼，自屠出肠，遂以死。
韩取聂政尸暴于市，购问莫知谁子。
于是韩县购之，有能言杀相侠累者予千金。
久之莫知也。
政姊荣闻人有刺杀韩相者，贼不得，国不知其名姓，暴其尸而县之千金，乃於邑曰： 其是吾弟与?
嗟乎，严仲子知吾弟!
立起，如韩之市，而死者果政也，伏尸哭极哀，曰： 是轵深井里所谓聂政者也。
市行者诸众人皆曰： 此人暴虐吾国相，王县购其名姓千金夫人不闻与？
何敢来识之也？
translation: 
But Yan Zhongzi finally fulfilled the etiquette of meeting a guest and a host, said goodbye and left.
After a long time, Nie Zheng's mother passed away. After the burial was completed and her mourning clothes were removed, Nie Zheng said: Alas!
I am just a common man, killing pigs and dogs with a knife, but Yan Zhongzi is a minister of the princes, but he has traveled thousands of miles and humiliated his status to befriend me.
My friendship with others is too shallow and insignificant, and there is no great merit that can offset his kindness to me. However, Yan Zhongzi offered a hundred gold coins as a birthday gift to my mother. Although I did not accept it, this incident is enough to show that he knows me very well.
A virtuous man, out of some petty hatred, regards me, a poor butcher living in a remote area, as a confidant. How could I just keep silent and end it like this!
Besides, when you invited me before, I didn’t agree just because my mother was still alive. Now that my mother is enjoying her remaining years, it’s time for me to do my best for those who understand me.
So he went west to Puyang, where he met Yan Zhongzi and said, "The reason why I didn't agree to Zhongzi's invitation before was just because my mother was still alive. Unfortunately, my mother has already reached the end of her life."
Who is the enemy Zhongzi wants to take revenge on?
Please let me do this!
Yan Zhongzi told him truthfully: My enemy is Xia Lei, the prime minister of Korea, and Xia Lei is the uncle of the king of Korea. He has a prosperous clan and a large population. The place where he lives is well-defended by soldiers. I wanted to send someone to assassinate him, but I never succeeded.
Now that you don't dislike me, I agree to add some warriors as your assistants.
Nie Zheng said: The distance between South Korea and Wei is not too far. Now the prime minister of the assassination family is a relative of the king. In this situation, not many people can go. If there are too many people, accidents will inevitably happen. If an accident occurs, the news will be leaked. If the news is leaked, it means that the entire Korean people are against you. Isn't this too dangerous!
So he declined the carriages and crowds, bid farewell to Yan Zhongzi and went away alone.
He took the sword to the capital of South Korea, where Xia Lei, the prime minister of South Korea, was sitting in the hall, with many guards armed with swords and halberds.
Nie Zheng walked straight in, walked up the steps and assassinated Xia Lei, causing chaos among the attendants. Nie Zheng shouted loudly, and dozens of people were killed by him. He also took advantage of the situation to disfigure his face, goug out his eyes, cut open his belly, and let out his intestines, and he died like this.
South Korea displayed Nie Zheng's body in the market and offered a reward to find out whose family the murderer belonged to, but no one knew.
So South Korea offered a reward to anyone who could name the person who killed Prime Minister Xia Lei, and he would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
After a long time, no one knew.
Nie Zheng's sister Nie Rong heard that someone had assassinated the prime minister of South Korea, but she didn't know who the murderer was. No one in South Korea knew his name. His body was displayed and a reward of a thousand gold was offered for people to identify it. So she sobbed and said: "Maybe it's my brother?"
Alas, Yan Zhongzi knows my brother!
So he immediately set off for the capital of South Korea. When he came to the market, the deceased was indeed Nie Zheng. He lay on the body and cried bitterly. He was extremely sad and said: This is the so-called Nie Zheng in the deep well of Zhi.
Pedestrians on the street said: This man brutally killed the prime minister of our country. The king offered a reward of a thousand gold to find out his name. Didn't you hear, madam?
How dare you come to identify the body?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
荣应之曰： 闻之。
然政所以蒙污辱自弃于市贩之间者，为老母幸无恙，妾未嫁也。
亲既以天年下世，妾已嫁夫，严仲子乃察举吾弟困污之中而交之，泽厚矣，可奈何!
士固为知己者死，今乃以妾尚在之故，重自刑以绝从，妾其奈何畏殁身之诛，终灭贤弟之名！
大惊韩市人。
乃大呼天者三，卒於邑悲哀而死政之旁。
晋、楚、齐、卫闻之，皆曰： 非独政能也乃其姊亦烈女也。
乡使政诚知其姊无濡忍之志，不重暴骸之难，必绝险千里以列其名，姊弟俱谬于韩市者，亦未必敢以身许严仲子也。严仲子亦可谓知人能得士矣！
其后二百二十余年秦有荆轲之事。
荆轲者，卫人也。其先乃齐人，徙于卫，卫人谓之庆卿。
而之燕，燕人谓之荆卿。
荆卿好读书击剑，以术说卫元君，卫元君不用。
其后秦伐魏，置东郡，徙卫元君之支属于野王。
荆轲尝游过榆次，与盖聂论剑，盖聂怒而目之。
荆轲出，人或言复召荆卿。
盖曰： 曩者吾与论剑有不称者，吾目之；试往，是宜去，不敢留。
使使往之主人，荆卿则已驾而去榆次矣。
使者还报，盖聂曰： 固去也，吾曩者目摄之！
荆轲游于邯郸，鲁勾践与荆轲博，争道，鲁勾践怒而叱之，荆轲嘿而逃去，遂不复会。
荆轲既至燕，爱燕之狗屠及善击筑者高渐离。
荆轲嗜酒，曰与狗屠及高渐离饮于燕市，酒酣以往，高渐离击筑，荆轲和而歌于市中，相乐也，已而相泣，旁若无人者。
荆轲虽游于酒人乎，然其为人沉深好书；其所游诸侯，尽与其贤豪长者相结。
其之燕燕之处士田光先生亦善待之，知其非庸人也。
translation: 
Nie Rong answered them: I heard about it.
But the reason why Nie Zheng endured the humiliation and even mingled with pig butchers and meat sellers was because my mother was still alive and I was not married yet.
After my mother passed away at the end of her life, I was already married. Yan Zhongzi selected my brother from a poor and humble situation to befriend him. We were deeply kind to him. What else could my brother do?
A warrior is supposed to sacrifice his life for his close friends, but now because I am still alive in the world, I have severely damaged my face and body, making it unrecognizable, so as not to implicate others. How can I be afraid of death and bury my brother's reputation forever!
The whole market was shocked.
Nie Rong then shouted "Oh my God" three times, and finally died beside Nie Zheng due to excessive grief.
When people from Jin, Chu, Qi, Wei and other countries heard the news, they all said: Not only is Nie Zheng capable, but his sister is also a fierce woman.
If Nie Zheng really knew that his sister had no forbearance and would not care about the suffering of exposing her body to the public, but would go through thousands of miles of hardships and dangers to reveal his name, so that the sister and brother died together in the streets of Korea, then he might not have dared to commit himself to Yan Zhongzi. Yan Zhongzi can also be said that only by knowing people can he win the wise men!
From then on, for more than two hundred and twenty years, the Qin State had the deeds of Jing Ke.
Jing Ke was a native of Wei State. His ancestors were from Qi State and later moved to Wei State. The people of Wei State called him Qing Qing.
After arriving in Yan State, the people of Yan State called him Jing Qing.
Jing Qing loved reading and fencing, and relied on his swordsmanship to persuade Wei Yuanjun, but Wei Yuanjun did not appoint him.
After that, the Qin State attacked the Wei State, established Dongjun, and moved the relatives of Wei Yuanjun to Yewang.
Jing Ke once passed by Yuci while wandering around and discussed swordsmanship with Gai Nie. Gai Nie glared at him.
After Jing Ke went out, someone advised Gai Nie to call Jing Ke back.
Gai Nie said: I was talking to him about swordsmanship just now, and there was something inappropriate about what he said, so I glared at him; go and look for it, I glared at him, he should have left, and I didn't dare to stay here anymore.
Someone was sent to Jing Ke's residence to inquire about the landlord. Jing Ke had already left Yuci by car.
When the person who was sent came back to report, Genie said: It was time to leave, but I glared at him just now and he was scared.
Jing Ke was roaming Handan, Lu Goujian and Jing Ke were playing games, and they argued about the way to play. Lu Goujian got angry and scolded him, but Jing Ke escaped silently, and they never met again.
After Jing Ke arrived in Yan State, he became friendly with a man who was a dog butcher and Gao Jianli, who was good at building construction.
Jing Ke was very fond of drinking. He drank with the dog butcher and Gao Jianli every day in the Yan market. After they were drunk but not drunk, Gao Jianli was building a building, and Jing Ke sang in time with each other in the market to entertain each other. After a while, they cried to each other, as if there was no one around.
Although Jing Ke was among the drunkards, he was a deep and steady man and loved reading. In the princely countries he traveled to, he always made friends with the local wise men, heroes, and people of high moral standing.
After he arrived in Yan State, Mr. Tian Guang, a hermit of Yan State, also treated him friendly and knew that he was not an ordinary person.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
居顷之，会燕太子丹质秦亡归燕。
燕太子丹者，故尝质于赵，而秦王政生于赵，其少时与丹骥。
及政立为秦王，而丹质于秦。
秦王之遇燕太子丹不善，故丹怨而亡归。
归而求为报秦王者，国小，力不能其后秦出兵山东以伐齐、楚、三晋，稍蚕食诸侯，且至于燕燕君臣皆恐祸之至。
太子丹患之，问其傅鞠武。
武对曰： 秦地遍天下，威胁韩、魏、赵氏，北有甘泉、谷口之固，南有泾、渭之沃擅巴、汉之饶，右陇、蜀之山，左关、锻之险民众而士厉，兵革有余。
意有所出，则长城之南，易水以北，未有所定也，奈何以见陵之怨，欲批其逆鳞哉！  丹曰： 然则何由？
对曰： 请入图之。
居有间，秦将樊於期得罪于秦王，亡之燕，太子受而舍之。
鞠武谏曰： 不可。
夫以秦王之暴而积怒于燕，足为寒心，又况闻樊将军之所在乎？
是谓 委肉当饿虎之蹊 也，祸必不振矣！
虽有管、晏，不能为之谋也。
愿太子疾遣樊将军入匈奴以灭口。
请西约三晋，南连齐、楚，北购于单于，其后乃可图也。
太子曰： 太傅之计，旷日弥久，心惛然，恐不能须臾。
且非独于此也，夫樊将军穷困于天下，归身于丹，丹终不以迫于强秦而弃所哀怜之交，置之匈奴，是固丹命卒之时也。
愿太傅更虑之。
鞠武曰： 夫行危欲求安，造祸而求福，计浅而怨深，连结一人之后交，不顾国家之大害，此所谓 资怨而助祸 矣。
夫以鸿毛燎于炉炭之上，必无事矣。
且以雕鸷之秦，行怨暴之怒，岂足道哉！
燕有田光先生，其为人智深而勇沉，可与谋。
translation: 
Soon after, Prince Dan of Yan, who happened to be a hostage in Qin State, escaped back to Yan State.
Prince Dan of Yan had been a hostage in the State of Zhao in the past, and King Yingzheng of Qin was born in the State of Zhao. He and Prince Dan were close friends when he was young.
When Ying Zheng was established as King of Qin, Prince Dan went to Qin as a hostage.
The King of Qin was unfriendly to Prince Yan, so Prince Dan fled back out of resentment.
When he returned, he sought ways to retaliate against the King of Qin. The State of Yan was weak and unable to do so. From then on, Qin sent troops to Shandong every day to attack Qi, Chu and the three Jin Dynasties, gradually swallowing up all the countries like silkworms eating mulberry leaves. The war will spread to the Yan Kingdom, and the monarchs and ministers of the Yan Kingdom are afraid that a catastrophe is coming.
Prince Dan was worried about this and asked his teacher Ju Wu for advice.
Ju Wu replied: Qin's land is spread all over the world, threatening South Korea, Wei and Zhao. It has the solid and dangerous terrain of Ganquan and Taniguchi to the north, the fertile land of the Jinghe and Weihe River basins to the south, and occupies the fertile Bajun and Hanzhong areas. It has the mountains of Long and Shu as barriers on the right, and the Miao Mountain and Hangu Pass as fortresses on the left. It has a large population, well-trained soldiers, and more than enough weapons and equipment.
If there is an intention to expand outward, there will be no stable place south of the Great Wall and north of Yishui. Why are you trying to offend King Qin because of your resentment at being bullied? Prince Dan said: In this case, what should we do?
Ju Wu replied: Let me think about it further.
Some time later, Qin general Fan Yuqi offended the king of Qin and fled to the state of Yan. The prince accepted him and let him live there.
Ju Wugui advised: No.
The King of Qin was already very violent, and if he brought his anger to the State of Yan, it would be enough to frighten people, not to mention that he heard that General Fan lived here?
This is called putting meat on the path where the hungry tiger passes. Ah, the disaster must be irreversible!
Not even Guan Zhong or Yan Ying can give you any advice.
I hope you will send General Fan to the Xiongnu as soon as possible to eliminate Qin's excuse to attack us.
Please go west to form an alliance with the three Jins, go south to contact Qi and Chu, go north to make peace with Shanyu, and then you can find a way to deal with Qin.
Prince Dan said: The teacher's plan takes too long. My heart is so depressed and troubled that I may not even be able to wait for a moment.
Moreover, it is not just for this reason that General Fan is at the end of his rope in the world and has defected to me. I cannot abandon my sympathetic friend and send him to the Xiongnu just because of the violent Qin State. This should be the end of my life.
I hope the teacher will consider other methods.
Ju Wu said: Choosing dangerous actions to seek safety, creating disasters to pray for happiness, shallow strategies but deep resentment, and ignoring the great disasters of the country in order to make a new friend, this is what is called accumulating hatred and contributing to disasters.
Take a goose feather and put it on the coals of the stove and it will burn out instantly.
What's more, the Qin State, which is as ferocious as an eagle of prey, vents its hatred and cruel anger against the Yan State, is there any need to say it!
There is a Mr. Tian Guang in Yan State. He is a man of profound wisdom, courage and calmness. You can discuss with him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太子曰： 愿因太傅而得交于田先生，可乎？
鞠武曰： 敬诺。
出见田先生，道 太子愿图国事于先生也 。田光曰： 敬奉教。
乃造焉。
太子逢迎，却行为导，跪而蔽席。
田光坐定，左右无人，太子避席而请曰： 燕秦不两立，愿先生留意也。
田光曰： 臣闻骐骥盛壮之时，一曰而驰千里；至其衰老，驽马先之。
今太子闻光盛壮之时，不知臣精已消亡矣。
虽然，光不敢以图国事，所善荆卿可使也。
太子曰： 愿因先生得结交于荆卿，可乎？ 田光曰： 敬诺。
即起，趋出。
太子送至门，戒曰： 丹所报，先生所言者，国之大事也，愿先生勿泄也!
田光侥而笑曰： 诺。
偻行见荆卿，曰： 光与子相善，燕国莫不知。今太子闻光壮盛之时，不知吾形已不逮也，幸而教之曰 燕秦不两立，愿先生留意也 。
光窃不自外，言足下于太子也，愿足下过太子于宫。 荆轲曰： 谨奉教。
田光曰： 吾闻之，长者为行，不使人疑之。
今太子告光曰 所言者，国之大事也，愿先生勿泄 ，是太子疑光也。
夫为行而使人疑之，非节侠也。
欲自杀以激荆卿，曰： 愿足下急过太子，言光已死，明不言也。
因遂自刎而死。
荆轲遂见太子，言田光已死，致光之言。
太子再拜而跪，膝行流涕，有顷而后言曰： 丹所以诫田先生毋言者，欲以成大事之谋也。
今田先生以死明不言，岂丹之心哉!
荆轲坐定，太子避席顿首曰： 田先生不知丹之不肖，使得至前，敢有所道，此天之所以哀燕而不弃其孤也。
今秦有贪利之心，而欲不可足也。
非尽天下之地，臣海内之王者，其意不厌。
今秦已虏韩王，尽纳其地。
又举兵南伐楚，北临赵；王翦将数十万之众距漳、邺，而李信出太原、云中。
translation: 
The prince said: I hope to make friends with Mr. Tian through the teacher, is that okay?
Ju Wu said: "I obey."
Ju Wu then went out to visit Mr. Tian and said, "The prince hopes to plan state affairs with Mr. Tian." Tian Guang said: I would like to learn from you.
Then he went to visit the prince.
The prince stepped forward to greet him, walked backwards to guide Tian Guang, knelt down and wiped the seat to make way for Tian Guang.
After Tian Guang sat firmly and there was no one around him, the prince left his seat and asked Tian Guang for advice, saying: "The State of Yan and the State of Qin have sworn to be incompatible. I hope you will pay attention."
Tian Guang said: I heard that when the Qiji is strong, it can run thousands of miles in a day. When it gets old, even inferior horses can run ahead of it.
Now the prince has only heard of me in my prime, but he doesn't know that my energy has been exhausted.
Even so, I cannot take the liberty to plan state affairs. My good friend Jing Qing can take on this mission.
The prince said: I hope to make friends with Jing Qing through my husband, is that okay? Tian Guang said: "I obey."
So he got up immediately and hurried out.
The prince arrived at the door and warned: What I said and what your husband said are important matters of the country. I hope you will not leak them!
Tian Guang leaned over and said with a smile: Yes.
Tian Guang walked hunched over to see Jing Qing and said, "You and I are good friends with each other. Everyone in the Yan Kingdom knows that. Now that the prince has heard about my scene in my prime, he doesn't know that my body is no longer strong enough. I am honored to listen to his teachings: The states of Yan and Qin have sworn to be incompatible. I hope you will pay attention."
I have not met you in private, and have recommended you to the prince. I hope you will visit the prince in the palace. Jing Ke said: I would like to learn from you.
Tian Guang said: I heard that an older and mature person should not let others doubt him.
Now the prince warned me: What I said is a national matter. I hope you will not leak it. This is because the prince doubts me.
If a person behaves in a way that makes others doubt him, he is not considered a moral and loyal person.
He wanted to commit suicide to motivate Jing Qing, saying: I hope you will see the prince immediately and say that I am dead to show that I will not reveal the secret.
So he cut his neck and committed suicide.
Jing Ke then went to meet the prince, told him that Tian Guang was dead, and conveyed Tian Guang's words.
The prince bowed twice and knelt down, knelt down and moved forward, crying bitterly. After a while, he said: The reason why I warned Mr. Tian not to talk is to make the big plan succeed.
Now Mr. Tian is using his death to show that he will not tell anyone. Is this my original intention?
Jing Ke sat firmly, and the prince left his seat and kowtowed with his head and said: Mr. Tian doesn't know that I am not motivated, so that I can come to you and make a statement without presumptuousness. This is because God has pity on Yan State and has not abandoned me.
Now the King of Qin is greedy for profit, and his desire will not be satisfied.
His ambition will not be satisfied unless he takes over all the land in the world and makes all the kings surrender to him.
Now Qin has captured King Han and occupied all his territory.
He also sent troops to attack Chu State in the south and to approach Zhao State in the north. Wang Jian led hundreds of thousands of troops to Zhangshui and Ye County, while Li Xin sent troops to Taiyuan and Yunzhong.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
赵不能支秦，必入臣，入臣则祸至燕。
燕小弱，数困于兵，今计举国不足以当秦。
诸侯服秦，奠敢合从。丹之私计愚，以为诚得天下之勇士使于秦，窥以重利；秦王贪，其势必得所愿矣。
诚得劫秦王，使悉反诸侯侵地，若曹沫之与齐桓公，则大善矣；则不可，因而刺杀之。
彼秦大将擅兵于外而内有乱，则君臣相疑，以其间诸侯得合从，其破秦必矣。
此丹之上愿，而不知所委命，唯荆卿留意焉。
久之，荆轲曰： 此国之大事也，臣驽下，恐不足任使。
太子前顿首，固请毋让，然后许诺。
于是尊荆卿为上卿，舍上舍。
太子曰造门下，供太牢具，异物间进，车骑美女恣荆轲所欲，以顺适其意。
久之，荆轲未有行意。
秦将王翦破赵，虏赵王，尽收入其地，进兵北略地至燕南界。
太子丹恐惧，乃请荆轲曰： 秦兵旦暮渡易水，则虽欲长侍足下，岂可得哉!
荆轲曰： 微太子言，臣愿谒之。
今行而毋信，则秦未可亲也。
夫樊将军，秦王购之金千斤，邑万家。
诚得樊将军首与燕督亢之地图；奉献秦王，秦王必说见臣，臣乃得有以报。
太子曰： 樊将军穷困来归丹，丹不忍以己之私而伤长者之意，愿足下更虑之！
荆轲知太子不忍，乃遂私见樊於期曰： 秦之遇将军可谓深矣，父母宗族皆为戮没。
今闻购将军首金千斤，邑万家，将奈何?
於期仰天太息流涕曰： 於期每念之，常痛于骨髓，顾计不知所出耳！
荆轲曰： 今有一言可以解燕国之患，报将军之仇者，何如?
於期乃前曰： 为之奈何？
荆轲曰： 愿得将军之首以献秦王，秦王必喜而见臣，臣左手把其袖，右手攥其匈，然则将军之仇报而燕见陵之愧除矣。
将军岂有意乎？
translation: 
If the State of Zhao cannot resist the Qin army, it will definitely surrender to the State of Qin; if the State of Zhao surrenders, then disaster will befall the State of Yan.
The Yan State is weak and has been troubled by many wars. Now it is estimated that even mobilizing the power of the whole country will not be able to resist the Qin army.
The princes are afraid of surrendering to the Qin State, and no one dares to advocate a unified policy. I have an immature plan in private, thinking that I can really get the world's warriors and send them to the Qin State to seduce the King of Qin with heavy profits. The King of Qin is greedy, and the situation will definitely achieve our wishes.
It would be great if we could really kidnap the King of Qin and make him return all the lands he invaded and occupied, like Cao Mo who kidnapped Duke Huan of Qi. If not, then take advantage of the situation and kill him.
Their Qin generals monopolize military power abroad, and if there is trouble at home, the monarch and his ministers will be suspicious of each other. Taking advantage of this opportunity, if the countries in the east can unite, they will definitely be able to defeat Qin.
This is my highest wish, but I don’t know who to entrust this mission to. I hope Jing Qing will consider this matter carefully.
After a while, Jing Ke said: "This is a national event. My talents are poor and I am afraid I am not qualified for it."
The prince stepped forward and knelt on the ground, firmly requesting not to shirk, and Jing Ke agreed.
At that time, the prince respected Jing Qing as his superior and stayed in a first-class hotel.
The prince visited Jing Ke at his residence every day. Jing Ke was provided with expensive food and drinks, rare and exotic objects from time to time, and beautiful women with carriages and horses were allowed to follow Jing Ke's will to satisfy his wishes.
After a long time, Jing Ke still showed no sign of taking action.
At this time, Qin general Wang Jian had already broken through Zhao's capital, captured the king of Zhao, and incorporated all Zhao's territory into Qin's territory. The army advanced and seized land to the north until it reached the southern border of Yan State.
Prince Dan was afraid, so he begged Jing Ke: The Qin army will cross Yishui sooner or later. Even if I want to serve you for a long time, how can I do it?
Jing Ke said: Even if the prince does not say anything, I will ask for action.
Now when I go to the Kingdom of Qin, if I don’t have anything to make the King of Qin trust me, then the King of Qin will not be able to approach me.
As for General Fan, the King of Qin offered a reward of a thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households to buy his head.
If I really get the head of General Fan and the map of Dukang of Yan State and present them to the King of Qin, the King of Qin will be happy to receive me, so that I can have the opportunity to serve you.
The prince said: General Fan came to me when he was at the end of his rope. I can't bear to hurt this elder's heart for my own selfish interests. I hope you can consider other ways!
Jing Ke knew that the prince could not bear it, so he went to see Fan Yuqi himself and said: Qin's treatment of the general can be said to be too cruel! Your parents and people were all killed or taken into slavery.
Now I heard that thousands of catties of gold and tens of thousands of households were offered to acquire the general's head. What are you going to do?
Fan Yuqi raised his head, sighed to the sky, and said with tears: Whenever I, Fan Yuqi, think about this, it often hurts to the bone, but I just can't think of a way to take revenge!
Jing Ke said: "Today I have a sentence that can relieve Yan's troubles and avenge the general. How about it?"
Fan Yuqi stepped forward and said, "What should we do about this?"
Jing Ke said: I hope to get the general's head and present it to the King of Qin. The King of Qin will definitely be happy and receive me. I grabbed King Qin's sleeve with my left hand, and stabbed him in the chest with the dagger in my right hand. In this way, the general's hatred was washed away, and the shame of Yan's being bullied was also wiped away!
General, do you have any other ideas?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
樊於期偏袒撤挽而进曰： 此臣之日夜切齿腐心也，乃今得闻教!
遂自刭。
太子闻之，驰往，伏尸而哭，极哀。
既已不可奈何，乃遂盛樊於期首函封之。
于是太子豫求天下之利匕首，得赵人徐夫人匕首，取之百金，使工以药蟀之。以试人，血濡缕，人无不立死者。
乃装为遣荆卿。
燕国有勇士秦武阳，年十三，杀人，人不敢忤视。
乃令秦武阳为副。
荆轲有所待，欲与俱；其人居远未来，而为治行。
顷之，未发，太子迟之，疑其改悔，乃复请曰： 曰已尽矣，荆卿岂有意哉？
丹请得先遣秦武阳。
荆轲怒，叱太子曰： 何太子之遣？
往而不返者，竖子也!
且提一匕首入不测之强秦，仆所以留者，待吾客与俱。
今太子迟之，请辞决矣！
遂发。
太子及宾客知其事者，皆白衣冠以送之。
至易水之上，既祖，取道，高渐离击筑，荆轲和而歌，为变徵之声，士皆垂泪涕泣。又前而为歌曰： 风萧萧兮易水寒，壮士一去兮不复还！
复为羽声伉慨，士皆嗔目，发尽指冠。
于是荆轲就车而去，终已不顾。
遂至秦，持千金之资币物厚遗秦王宠臣中庶子蒙嘉。
嘉为先言于秦王曰： 燕王诚振怖大王之威，不敢举兵以逆军吏，愿举国为内臣，比诸侯之列，给贡职如郡县，而得奉守先王之宗庙。
恐惧不敢自陈，谨斩樊於期之头，及献燕督亢之地图函封，燕王拜送于庭，使使以闻大王，唯大王命之。
translation: 
Fan Yuqi exposed one shoulder, held the other wrist tightly with one hand, approached Jing Ke and said, "This is something I have been grinding my teeth on day and night, and I can only hear your advice today!"
Fan Yuqi committed suicide.
When the prince heard the news, he drove there and cried bitterly on General Fan's body. He was extremely sad.
There was no other way, so Fan Yuqi's head was put into a box and sealed.
At that time, the prince had already searched for the sharpest dagger in the world. He found the dagger of Mrs. Xu from Zhao State, spent a hundred gold on it, and asked the craftsmen to quench it with poisonous water. He tested it on people and found that as long as there was a trace of blood, everyone would die immediately.
So he prepared his luggage and sent Jing Ke off.
There was a warrior named Qin Wuyang in the Yan State. He killed people when he was thirteen years old. No one dared to look at him face to face.
So Qin Wuyang was sent as an assistant.
Jing Ke was waiting for a man and planned to set off together. The man lived far away and had not arrived yet, but Jing Ke had already prepared his luggage for him.
A few days later, Jing Ke had not yet set out. The prince thought that he was stalling for time and suspected that he was going back on his word, so he urged him again: "The days are running out, does Jing Qing have any plans to leave?"
Please allow me to send Qin Wuyang first.
Jing Ke got angry and rebuked the prince: "What does the prince mean by sending him like this?"
If you just go and don't care about completing your mission and come back, you are a worthless boy!
What's more, he entered the unpredictable and violent Qin State with a dagger. The reason why I stayed temporarily was to wait for another friend to go with me.
Now that the prince thinks that I have delayed the time, let's say goodbye!
So we set off.
The prince and the guests who knew about this all dressed up in ordinary people's clothes and went to see Jing Ke off.
Arriving at the bank of Yishui, after bidding farewell, we set out on the road. Gao Jianli was building the building. Jing Ke sang in time with the beat, emitting a desolate and melancholy tone. Those who saw him off shed tears and sang as they walked forward: The wind is rustling, the Yishui is cold, and the strong men will never return once they are gone!
He made an impassioned tone again, and the people seeing him off had their eyes widened with anger, their hair stood on end, and their hats were raised.
So Jing Ke got in the car and drove away without even looking back.
As soon as he arrived in Qin, Jing Ke brought a gift worth thousands of gold and gave it generously to Meng Jia, the concubine among the favored ministers of the King of Qin.
Meng Jia first spoke to the King of Qin on behalf of Jing Ke: The King of Yan was really frightened by the majesty of the King and did not dare to send out troops to resist the King's soldiers. He preferred that all the people in the country be the ministers of the Qin State, ranked among the other vassal states, and pay taxes as if they were directly under the jurisdiction of counties and counties, so that they could guard the ancestral temple of the late king.
I was too scared to come forward and make a statement in person. I hereby cut off Fan Yuqi's head and present a map of the Dukang area of ​​the Yan Kingdom, and seal it in a box. King Yan also held a farewell ceremony at the court and sent envoys to report the situation to the king and ask for his instructions.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
秦王闻之，大喜，乃朝服，设九宾见燕使者咸阳宫。
荆轲奉樊於期头函，而秦舞阳奉地图柙，以次进。至陛，秦武阳色变振恐，群臣怪之。
荆轲顾笑武阳，前谢曰： 北蕃蛮夷之鄙人，未尝见天子，故振悃。
愿大王少假借之，使得毕使于前。
秦王谓轲曰： 取武阳所持地图。
轲既取图奏之，秦王发图，图穷而匕首见。
因左手把秦王之袖，而右手持匕首椹之。
未至身，秦王惊，自引而起，袖绝。
拔剑，剑长，操其室。
时惶急，剑坚，故不可立拔。
荆轲逐秦王，秦王环柱而走。
群臣皆愕，卒起不意，尽失其度。
而秦法，群臣侍殿上者不得持尺寸之兵；诸郎中执兵皆陈殿下，非有诏召不得上。
方急时，不及召下兵，以故荆轲乃逐秦王。
而卒惶急，无以击轲，而以手共搏之。
是时侍医夏无且以其所奉药囊提荆轲也。
秦王方环柱走，卒惶急，不知所为，左右乃曰： 王负剑！
负剑，遂拔以击荆轲断其左股。
荆轲废，乃引其首以摘秦王，不中，中桐柱。
秦王复击轲，轲被八创。
轲自知事不就，倚柱而笑箕踞以骂曰： 事所以不成者，以欲生劫之，必得约契以报太子也。
于是左右既前杀轲，秦王不怡者良久。
已而论功，赏群臣及当坐者各有差，而赐夏无且黄金二百溢，曰： 无且爱我，乃以药囊提荆轲也。
于是秦王大怒，益发兵诣赵，诏王翦军以伐燕。十月而拔蓟城。
燕王喜、太子丹等尽率其精兵东保于辽东。
秦将李信追击燕王急，代王嘉乃遗燕王喜书曰： 秦所以尤追燕急者，以太子丹故也。
今王诚杀丹献之秦王，秦王必解，而社稷幸得血食。
其后李信追丹，丹匿衍水中，燕王乃使使斩太子丹，欲献之秦。
秦复进兵攻之。
后五年，秦卒灭燕，虏燕王喜。
其明年，秦并天下，立号为皇帝。
于是秦逐太子丹、荆轲之客，皆亡。
translation: 
When the King of Qin heard the news, he was very happy. He put on his formal attire, arranged a nine-guest ceremony, which was extremely grand in diplomacy, and summoned the envoys of Yan State in Xianyang Palace.
Jing Ke held Fan Yuqi's head, and Qin Wuyang held the map box. They advanced in the order of chief and deputy envoys. When they reached the steps in front of the palace, Qin Wuyang's face suddenly changed and he was trembling with fear. The ministers were surprised.
Jing Ke turned around and smiled at Qin Wuyang, stepped forward to apologize and said: "The savage people in the barbarian land of the northern vassal have never seen the emperor, so they are frightened."
I hope the king will tolerate him a little and allow him to complete his mission in front of the king.
The King of Qin said to Jing Ke: Hand over the map Wuyang took.
Jing Ke took the map and presented it. King Qin unfolded the map. The scroll was stretched to the end and the dagger was exposed.
Jing Ke took the opportunity to grab King Qin's sleeve with his left hand, and stabbed him with a dagger in his right hand.
Before he got close, King Qin was startled. He jumped up and broke his sleeve.
He hurriedly drew his sword, the sword was long, and he just grabbed the scabbard.
In the moment of panic and urgency, the sword was sheathed too tightly, so he couldn't pull it out immediately.
Jing Ke chased the King of Qin, and the King of Qin ran around the pillar.
The ministers were in a daze with fright. Suddenly something unexpected happened and everyone lost their normal state.
The laws of the Qin State stipulate that the ministers in the palace are not allowed to carry any weapons; the military attachés can only guard outside the palace in order with weapons, and they are not allowed to enter the palace without the emperor's order.
At the critical moment, there was no time to summon the guards below, so Jing Ke was able to pursue the King of Qin.
In a hurry, he was panic-stricken and had no weapons to attack Jing Ke, so he could only fight Jing Ke with his bare hands.
At this time, the attendant medical officer Xia Wuqie hit Jing Ke with the medicine bag he was holding.
Just as King Qin was running around the pillar, panicking and not knowing what to do, the attendants shouted: Your Majesty, push your sword behind your back!
King Qin pushed his sword behind his back, then drew out his sword and attacked Jing Ke, cutting off his left leg.
Jing Ke was crippled, so he raised his dagger and threw it directly at the King of Qin. He missed but hit the bronze pillar.
The King of Qin attacked Jing Ke one after another, and Jing Ke was stabbed in eight places.
Jing Ke knew that the big thing would not succeed, so he leaned on the pillar and laughed, spread his legs like a dustpan and sat on the ground and cursed: The reason why the big thing didn't succeed is because I want to capture you alive and force you to sign a contract to return the land to the princes in return for the prince.
At this time, the guards rushed forward to kill Jing Ke, but King Qin was not happy for a while.
Afterwards, the merits and demerits were evaluated differently, the rewards given to the officials and the officials responsible for the crimes were dealt with in different ways. He gave Xia Wuji two hundred yi of gold and said, "Wuji loved me, so he threw the medicine bag at Jing Ke."
So the King of Qin became furious, sent more troops to the State of Zhao, ordered Wang Jian's army to attack the State of Yan, and captured Jicheng in October.
King Xi of Yan, Prince Dan and others led all the elite troops to retreat eastward to Liaodong.
Qin general Li Xin pursued the King of Yan closely, and Dai Wangjia wrote to King Yan, saying: The reason why the Qin army is pursuing the Yan army with great urgency is because of Prince Dan.
Now if you kill Prince Dan and offer his head to the King of Qin, you will definitely be forgiven by the King of Qin, and Sheji may be lucky enough to be sacrificed.
After that, Li Xin led his army to chase Prince Dan, who was hiding in the Yanshui River. King Yan sent an envoy to kill Prince Dan and prepared to sacrifice his head to the King of Qin.
The king of Qin marched again to attack Yan.
Five years later, Qin finally destroyed Yan and captured King Xi of Yan.
The next year, King Qin annexed the world and made him emperor.
So the retainers of Prince Dan and Jing Ke were compiled, and all the retainers fled.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高渐离变名姓为人庸保，匿作于宋子。
久之，作苦，闻其家堂上客击筑，傍惶不能去。
每出言曰： 彼有善有不善。
从者以告其主，曰： 彼庸乃知音，窃言是非。
家丈人召使前击筑，一坐称善，赐酒。
而高渐离念久隐畏约无穷时，乃退。出其装匣中筑与其善衣，更容貌而前。举坐客皆惊，下与抗礼，以为上客。
使击筑而歌，客无不流涕而去者。
宋子传客之，闻于秦始皇。
秦始皇召见，人有识者，乃曰： 高渐离也。
秦皇帝惜其善击筑，重赦之，乃嚯其目。
使击筑，未尝不称善。
稍益近之，高渐离乃以铅置筑中。复进得近，举筑朴秦皇帝，不中。
于是遂诛高渐离，终身不复近诸侯之人。
鲁勾践已闻荆轲之刺秦王，私曰： 嗟乎，惜哉其不讲于刺剑之术也!甚矣吾不知人也!
曩者吾叱之，彼乃以我为非人也！
太史公曰：世言荆轲，其称太子丹之命， 天雨粟，马生角 也，太过。
又言荆轲伤秦王，皆非也。
始公孙季功、董生与夏无且游，具知其事，为余道之如是。
自曹沫至荆轲五人，此其义或成或不成，然其立意较然，不欺其志，名垂后世，岂妄也哉！
translation: 
Gao Jianli changed his name and worked as a bartender, hiding in Songzi to work.
After a long time, I felt very tired. When I heard that there were guests in the host's hall, I walked around and couldn't bear to leave.
I often open my mouth and say: There are good things about the tone of that building, and there are also bad things.
The waiter told the master what Gao Jianli said, saying: "That mediocre worker knows music and talks about right and wrong in private."
The master of the house asked Gao Jianli to build the building in front of the hall. All the guests said that he was good at building the building and rewarded him with wine.
Gao Jianli thought that he would remain anonymous for a long time and hide in fear without end, so he retreated to the hall, took out his clothes and clothes from the suitcase, modified himself and came to the front of the hall. The guests were all shocked, and left their seats to receive him with equal etiquette, treating him as an honored guest.
He was invited to sing and sing. After hearing this, all the guests were moved to tears and left.
People in Songzi City took turns inviting him to be a guest, and the news was heard by Qin Shihuang.
Qin Shihuang called for him to come in. Someone who knew him said, "This is Gao Jianli."
Qin Shihuang took pity on him because he was good at building construction, and specially pardoned his death penalty.
So Xun blinded him and asked him to build the building, and he said yes every time.
Gradually, he got closer to Qin Shihuang. Gao Jianli put lead into the building, and when he came closer to the palace and struck the building, he raised the building and hit Qin Shihuang, but missed.
So Qin Shi Huang killed Gao Jianli. I will never dare to get close to people from the six eastern countries in my life.
When Lu Goujian heard about Jing Ke's assassination of the King of Qin, he said privately: Alas! What a pity, he doesn't pay attention to the technique of stabbing the sword. I don't understand this person very well!
In the past, when I scolded him, he thought I was no longer a fellow traveler.
Tai Shigong said: When people talk about Jing Ke in the society, when it comes to the fate of Prince Dan, they say: grain falls from the sky like rain, and horns grow from the horse's head! This is too much.
It is also said that Jing Ke stabbed the King of Qin, which is not true.
When Gongsun Jigong, Dong Sheng, and Xia Wuji were friends, they all knew about this incident, and what they told me was just like what I recorded.
From Cao Mo to Jing Ke, some of their chivalrous actions were successful, and some were unsuccessful, but their ambitions and intentions were all clear, and they did not violate their own consciences. Their reputations have been passed down to future generations. Isn't this false!


