Chunk 0: 
original: 
太宗十一王世祖二子孝太宗王皇后生哀太子大器、南郡王大连，陈淑容生浔阳王大心，左夫人生南海王大临、安陆王大春，谢夫人生浏阳公大雅，张夫人生新兴王大庄，包昭华生西阳王大钧，范夫人生武宁王大威，褚修华生建平王大球，陈夫人生义安王大昕，硃夫人生绥建王大挚。
自余诸子，本书不载。
浔阳王大心，字仁恕。
幼而聪朗，善属文。
中大通四年，以皇孙封当阳公，邑一千五百户。
大同元年，出为使持节、都督郢、南、北司、定、新五州诸军事、轻车将军、郢州刺史。
时年十三，太宗以其幼，恐未达民情，戒之曰： 事无大小，悉委行事，纤毫不须措怀。
大心虽不亲州务，发言每合于理，众皆惊服。
七年，征为侍中、兼石头戍军事。
太清元年，出为云麾将军、江州刺史。
二年，侯景寇京邑。大心招集士卒，远近归之，众至数万，与上流诸军赴援宫阙。
三年，城陷，上甲侯萧韶南奔，宣密诏，加散骑常侍，进号平南将军。
大宝元年，封寻阳王，邑二千户。
初，历阳太守庄铁以城降侯景，既而又奉其母来奔，大心以铁旧将，厚为其礼，军旅之事，悉以委之，仍以为豫章内史。
侯景数遣军西上寇抄，大心辄令铁击破之，贼不能进。
时鄱阳王范率众弃合肥，屯于栅口，待援兵总集，欲俱进。
大心闻之，遣要范西上，以湓城处之，廪馈甚厚，与戮力共除祸难。
会庄铁据豫章反，大心令中兵参军韦约等将军击之，铁败绩，又乞降。
鄱阳世子嗣先与铁游处，因称其人才略从横，且旧将也，欲举大事，当资其力，若降江州，必不全其首领，嗣请援之。
范从之，乃遣将侯瑱率精甲五千往救铁，夜袭破韦约等营。
大心闻之大惧，于是二籓衅起，人心离贰。
景将任约略地至于湓城，大心遣司马韦质拒战，败绩。
时帐下犹有勇士千余人，咸说曰： 既无粮储，难以守固。若轻骑往建州，以图后举，策之上者也。
大心未决，其母陈淑容曰： 即日圣御年尊，储宫万福，汝久奉违颜色，不念拜谒阙庭，且吾已老，而欲远涉险路，粮储不给，岂谓孝子？
吾终不行。
因抚胸恸哭，大心乃止。
遂与约和。
二年秋，遇害，时年二十九。
南海王大临，字仁宣。
translation: 
Queen Taizong gave birth to Prince Xiao Daqi, Prince of Nanjun, Xiao Dalian; Chen Shurong gave birth to Prince Xiao Daxin of Xunyang; Mrs. Zuo gave birth to Prince Xiao Dalin of Nanhai, and Prince Xiao Dachun of Anlu; Mrs. Xie gave birth to Duke Xiao Daya of Liuyang; Mrs. Zhang They gave birth to Xiao Dazhuang, the king of Xinxing; Xiao Dajun, the king of Xiyang, was born to Bao Zhaohua; Xiao Dawei, the king of Wuning, was born to Mrs. Fan; Xiao Daqiu, the king of Jianping, was born to Chu Xiuhua; Xiao Daxin, the king of Yi'an, was born to Mrs. Chen; Xiao Dazhi, the king of Suijian, was born to Mrs. Zhu.
The deeds of the other sons are not recorded in this book.
Xiao Daxin, king of Xunyang, was named Renshu.
He has been smart and enlightened since childhood and is good at writing articles.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he was granted the title of Dangyang Gong because of his status as the emperor's grandson, and was granted a residence of 1,500 households.
In the first year of Datong, he went to Beijing to serve as envoy Chijie, governor of Ying's southern and northern divisions, Dingxin's military forces of the five states, general of light vehicles, and governor of Yingzhou.
Xiao Daxin was only thirteen years old at that time. Because of his young age, Taizong was worried that he would not be able to understand the people's sentiments, so he warned him: No matter how big or small, all matters should be handed over to the Xingfu and state officials who are in charge of the affairs. There is no need to worry about anything.
Although Xiao Daxin does not personally manage state affairs, his opinions are always reasonable. Everyone was amazed and admired.
In the seventh year of Datong, Xiao Daxin was recruited as a servant and a stone garrison.
In the first year of Taiqing, he came to Beijing and served as General Yunhui and governor of Jiangzhou.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing invaded the capital. Xiao Daxin recruited soldiers, and people from far and near joined him. The army reached 10,000 people. He and the troops from the upper reaches of the Yangtze River rushed to the capital to rescue the imperial court.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, the capital city was captured. Xiao Shao, the Marquis of Shangjia, fled south. He read the Emperor's Secret Shao to Xiao Daxin and gave Xiao Daxin the title of "General of Pingnan".
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Daxin was named King of Xunyang and had 2,000 households in the city.
In the past, Zhuang Tie, the prefect of Liyang, led the city to surrender to Hou Jing, and soon he brought his mother to Xiao Daxin. Because Zhuang Tie was his old subordinate, Xiao Daxin treated Zhuang Tie generously and left all matters of leading the army to war to Zhuang Tie, and then appointed Zhuang Tie as the internal historian of Yuzhang.
Hou Jing repeatedly sent troops westward upstream to invade and plunder. Xiao Daxin ordered Zhuang Tie to defeat the invading rebels, so that the rebels could not advance.
At that time, Poyang King Xiao Fan led his army to abandon Hefei and stationed at Zhakou, hoping to wait until all the reinforcements gathered before marching together.
When Xiao Daxin heard the news, he sent someone to invite Xiao Fan to go up the river and march westward, and gave Xiao Fan the city to garrison. The food supplies were very generous, and the two of them worked together to put an end to the chaos.
When Zhuang Tie occupied Yuzhang and rebelled, Xiao Daxin ordered his soldiers to join the army. Wei Yue and others led the army to attack Zhuang Tie. Zhuang Tie was defeated and asked to surrender.
Xiao Si, the eldest son of King Poyang, had friends with Zhuang Tie before. During the war, he praised Zhuang Tie to King Poyang, saying that Zhuang Tie was talented and well versed in strategy. Moreover, he was a veteran general in the army. If he wanted to achieve great things, he should rely on Zhuang Tie's strength. If Zhuang Tie surrenders to King Xunyang of Jiangzhou, he will definitely not be able to save his life. Xiao Si asked King Poyang to send troops to rescue Zhuang Tie.
Xiao Fan, the king of Poyang, listened to Xiao Si's advice and sent general Hou Ti to lead 5,000 elite troops to rescue Zhuang Tie. Hou Ti made a surprise attack at night and attacked Wei Yue and other military camps.
Xiao Daxin was very panicked and frightened when he heard the news. As a result, a rift developed between the two vassal kings, and their hearts were divided and they had different aspirations.
Hou Jing's general Ren Yue attacked the city and reached Huancheng. Xiao Daxin sent Sima Weizhi to lead his army to resist, but was severely defeated.
At that time, Xiao Daxin still had more than a thousand warriors under his command. Everyone advised Xiao Daxin: Since there is no food reserve in Baogao, it will be difficult to hold on to it. It is best to lead Qingqi to Jianzhou and plan to revitalize it later.
Xiao Daxin was hesitant and did not make a decision. His mother Chen Shurong said: Now that the emperor is old and the prince is in good health, you have been away from the court for a long time and do not care to pay homage to the emperor and the prince. Besides, I am old, but you want me to travel long distances and embark on a dangerous road with insufficient food supply. How can I be considered a filial son?
I will not set off after all.
After saying that, he clapped his chest and cried bitterly, so Xiao Daxin stayed and never left.
Xiao Daxin then made an agreement with Ren.
In the autumn of the second year of Dashi, Xiao Daxin was killed at the age of twenty-five.
Xiao Dalin, king of Nanhai, was named Renxuan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
大同二年，封宁国县公，邑一千五百户。
少而敏慧。
年十一，遭左夫人忧，哭泣毁瘠，以孝闻。
后入国学，明经射策甲科，拜中书侍郎，迁给事黄门侍郎。
十一年，为长兼侍中。
出为轻车将军，琅邪、彭城二郡太守。
侯景乱，为使持节、宣惠将军，屯新亭。
俄又征还，屯端门，都督城南诸军事。
时议者皆劝收外财物，拟供赏赐，大临独曰： 物乃赏士，而牛可犒军。
命取牛，得千余头，城内赖以飨士。
大宝元年，封南海郡王，邑二千户。
出为使持节、都督扬、南徐二州诸军事、安南将军、扬州刺史。
又除安东将军、吴郡太守。
时张彪起义于会稽，吴人陆令公、颍川庾孟卿等劝大临走投彪。
大临曰： 彪若成功，不资我力；如其挠败，以我说焉。
不可往也。
二年秋，遇害于郡，时年二十五。
南郡王大连，字仁靖。
少俊爽，能属文，举止风流，雅有巧思，妙达音乐，兼善丹青。
大同二年，封临城县公，邑一千五百户。
七年，与南海王俱入国学，射策甲科，拜中书侍郎。
十年，高祖幸硃方，大连与兄大临并从。
高祖问曰： 汝等习骑不？
对曰： 臣等未奉诏，不敢辄习。
敕各给马试之，大连兄弟据鞍往还，各得驰骤之节，高祖大悦，即赐所乘马。
及为启谢，词又甚美。
高祖佗日谓太宗曰： 昨见大临、大连，风韵可爱，足以慰吾年老。
translation: 
In the second year of Datong, he was granted the title of Duke of Ningguo County, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
Xiao Dalin has been smart and smart since he was a child.
When he was eleven years old, his biological mother, Mrs. Zuo, passed away. He cried every day, which made him weak and thin, so he was famous for his filial piety.
Later, Xiao Dalin entered Chinese studies, ranked first in the Ming Dynasty's archery examination, was awarded the title of Minister of Zhongshu, and was transferred to Minister of Huangmen.
In the eleventh year of Datong, he was appointed as the chief and also as the minister.
After leaving the capital, he became General Qingche and Grand Administrator of Langye and Pengcheng counties.
Hou Jing rebelled, and Xiao Dalin was appointed by the imperial court as envoy Chijie and General Xuanhui, stationed in Xinting.
Soon he was recruited back to Beijing and stationed at Duanmen, where he oversaw the military affairs in the south of the city.
People who discussed political affairs at that time advised Xiao Dalin to collect private property in order to use it as rewards, but Xiao Dalin said: Property can only be given to scholars, but cattle can be used to reward soldiers.
He ordered to collect cattle and got more than a thousand cattle. With these cattle, he was able to comfort the soldiers in the city.
In the first year of Dabao, Xiao Dalin was granted the title of Prince of Nanhai County and was granted the title of 2,000 households in the town.
Later he went to Beijing and served as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yangnan and Xuzhou, general Annan, and governor of Yangzhou.
He was also appointed as General Anshu and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
At that time, Zhang Biao organized a rebel army in Kuaiji to oppose Hou Jing. Wu people Lu Linggong, Ying Zuo Meng Qing and others persuaded Xiao Dalin to leave the county and join Zhang Biao.
Xiao Dalin said: If Ji Biao succeeds, he will not provide us with troops; if he suffers setbacks and fails, he will use me as a bargaining chip to escape.
You can't take refuge with Zhang Biao.
In the autumn of the second year of Dashi, Xiao Dalin was killed in Wujun. He was twenty-five years old when he died.
Xiao Dalian, the king of Lu County, has the given name Renjing.
He was handsome and cheerful since he was a child. He was good at writing articles, spoke elegantly and gracefully, often had some surprising insights, was proficient in music, and was also good at painting.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Dalian was granted the title of Duke of Lincheng County, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the seventh year of Datong, he and King Nanhai entered Chinese studies together, lived together in the Jia Department for the exam, and became the Minister of Zhongshu.
In the tenth year of Datong, Emperor Gaozu visited Seili, and Xiao Dalian and his elder brother Xiao Dalin accompanied him.
Emperor Gaozu asked them: Have you learned how to ride?
They replied: We have not received the destiny, so we dare not learn riding skills without permission.
The high-ranking officials gave them horses to try out. The Xiao Dalian brothers sat on the saddles and drove the horses back and forth. They both mastered the essentials of galloping. Emperor Gaozu was very happy and rewarded them with the horses they rode.
They submitted a memorial to express their gratitude, and the words in the memorial were beautiful.
One day Gaozu said to Taizong: Yesterday I saw Dalin and Dalian. Their demeanor and temperament were very lovely. It was indeed a comfort to me in my old age.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
迁给事黄门侍郎，转侍中，寻兼石头戍军事。
太清元年，出为使持节、轻车将军、东扬州刺史。
侯景入寇京师，大连率众四万来赴。
及台城没，援军散，复还扬州。
三年，会稽山贼田领群聚党数万来攻，大连命中兵参军张彪击斩之。
大宝元年，封为南郡王，邑二千户。
景仍遣其将赵伯超、刘神茂来讨，大连设备以待之。
会将留异以城应贼，大连弃城走，至信安，为贼所获。
侯景以为轻车将军、行扬州事，迁平南将军、江州刺史。
大连既迫寇手，恒思逃窜，乃与贼约曰： 军民之事，吾不预焉。候我存亡，但听钟响。
欲简与相见，因得亡逸，贼亦信之。
事未果。二年秋，遇害，时年二十五。
安陆王大春，字仁经。
少博涉书记。
天性孝谨，体貌环伟，腰带十围。
大同六年，封西豊县公，邑一千五百户。
拜中书侍郎。
后为宁远将军，知石头戍军事。
侯景内寇，大春奔京口，随邵陵王入援，战于钟山，为贼所获。
京城既陷，大宝元年，封安陆郡王，邑二千户。
出为使持节、云麾将军、东扬州刺史。
二年秋，遇害，时年二十二。
浏阳公大雅，字仁风。
大同九年，封浏阳县公，邑一千五百户。
少聪警，美姿仪，特为高祖所爱。
太清三年，京城陷，贼已乘城，大雅犹命左右格战，贼至渐众，乃自缒而下。
因发愤感疾，薨，时年十七。
新兴王大庄，字仁礼。
大同九年，封高唐县公，邑一千五百户。
大宝元年，封新兴郡王，邑二千户。
出为使持节、都督南徐州诸军事、宣毅将军、南徐州刺史。
translation: 
Xiao Dalian was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, then to the Minister of the Middle School, and soon he also served as the Shitou garrison.
In the first year of Taiqian's reign, he left Beijing to serve as envoy Chijie, General Qingche, and governor of Dongyangzhou.
Hou Jing invaded the capital, and Xiao Dalian led 40,000 troops to rescue him.
Taicheng was captured, the reinforcements dispersed, and Xiao Dalian returned to Yangzhou.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, bandits Tian Lingqun from Kuaiji gathered tens of thousands of people to attack Yangzhou. Xiao Dalian ordered soldiers to join the army and Zhang Biao met him and killed Tian Lingqun.
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Dalian was granted the title of King of Nanjun, with a settlement of 2,000 households.
Hou Jing frequently sent his generals Tang Bochao and Liu Shenmao to attack, while Xiao Dalian deployed garrison troops to wait for the enemy.
Just when his general Liu Yi led the city to surrender to the rebels, Xiao Dalian abandoned the city and fled. When he arrived at Xin'an, he was captured by the rebels.
Hou Jing appointed Xiao Dalian as General of Qingche, responsible for conducting affairs in Yangzhou, and moved to General of Pingnan and Governor of Jiangzhou.
After Xiao Dalian was trapped in the hands of the rebels, he often thought about escaping, so he made an appointment with the rebels and said: "I will not participate in the affairs of leading the army and governing the people. If you want to know whether I live or die, just listen to the bells in my house."
This was because he wanted to avoid seeing the traitor less and escape. The traitor also believed him, but his escape failed.
In the autumn of the second year of Dashi, Xiao Dalian was killed at the age of twenty-five.
Xiao Dachun, King of Anlu, was named Ren Jing.
He has dabbled in various books since childhood.
He is respectful and filial by nature, has a beautiful appearance, a strong body, and a belt with ten girths.
In the sixth year of Datong, Xiao Dachun was granted the title of Duke of Xifeng County, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
He was appointed as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu.
Later he was appointed as General Ningyuan and learned about the military affairs of Shitou garrison.
Hou Jing attacked the capital, and Xiao Dachun fled to Jingkou. As King Shaoling rescued the capital, he fought with the rebels at Zhongshan, and Xiao Dachun was captured by the rebels.
After the capital was captured, in the first year of Dabao, Xiao Dachun was granted the title of Prince of Anlu County, with a settlement of 2,000 households.
He left Beijing as envoy Chijie, General Yunhui, and governor of Dongyangzhou.
In the autumn of the second year of Dashi, Xiao Dachun was killed at the age of twenty-two.
Xiao Daya, Duke of Liuyang, was named Renfeng.
In the ninth year of Datong, he was granted the title of Duke of Liuyang County, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
Xiao Daya was smart and alert since she was a child, with beautiful appearance and good demeanor. Gaozu especially loved her.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, the capital city was captured, and the rebels had climbed onto the city wall. Xiao Daya still ordered his attendants to fight. As the number of rebels gradually increased, he was able to hang himself down from the city wall with a rope.
Xiao Daya became ill and died because of this hatred. She died at the age of seventeen.
The emerging king Xiao Dazhuang was named Renli.
In the ninth year of Datong, he was granted the title of Duke of Gaotang County, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the first year of his reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Xingxing County and was granted a residence of 2,000 households.
He left the capital and served as envoy Chijie, governor of Yu Tusu and other military affairs, general Xuanyi, and governor of Southern Xuzhou.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
二年秋，遇害，时年十八。
西阳王大钧，字仁辅。
性厚重，不妄戏弄。
年七岁，高祖尝问读何书，对曰 学《诗》 。
因命讽诵，音韵清雅，高祖因赐王羲之书一卷。
大宝元年，封西阳郡王，邑二千户。
出为宣惠将军、丹阳尹。
二年，监扬州，将军如故。
至秋遇害，时年十三。
武宁王大威，字仁容。
美风仪，眉目如画。
大宝元年，封武宁郡王，邑二千户。
二年，出为信威将军、丹阳尹。
其年秋，遇害，时年十三。
建平王大球，字仁珽。
大宝元年，封建平郡王，邑二千户。
性明慧夙成。
初，侯景围京城，高祖素归心释教，每发誓愿，恒云： 若有众生应受诸苦，悉衍身代当。
时大球年甫七岁，闻而惊谓母曰： 官家尚尔，儿安敢辞？
乃六时礼佛，亦云： 凡有众生应获苦报，悉大球代受。
其早慧如此。
二年，出为轻车将军、兼石头戍军事。
其年秋，遇害，时年十一。
义安王大昕，字仁朗。
年四岁，母陈夫人卒，便哀慕毁悴，有若成人。
及高祖崩，大昕奉慰太宗，呜咽不能自胜。左右见之，莫不掩泣。
大宝元年，封义安郡王，邑二千户。
二年，出为宁远将军、琅邪、彭城二郡太守，未之镇，遇害，时年十一。
绥建王大挚，字仁瑛。
幼雄壮有胆气，及京城陷，乃叹曰： 大丈夫会当灭虏属。
translation: 
Dabao was killed in the autumn of the second year at the age of eighteen.
Xiao Dagou, King of Xiyang, was named Renfu.
He is honest and steady by nature and does not play casually.
When he was seven years old, Emperor Gaozu once asked him what book he had read, and he replied that he should study "Poetry".
Emperor Gaozu ordered him to recite it. When he recited it, his voice was clear and loud, so Emperor Gaozu rewarded him with a scroll of calligraphy written by Wang Xizhi.
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Dagou was granted the title of King of Xiyang County and was granted a settlement of 2,000 households.
He left the capital and served as General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin.
In the second year of Dashi, he was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou, but his title of general remained unchanged.
In the autumn of the Qian year, Xiao Dagou was killed at the age of thirteen.
King Xiao Dawei of Wuning was named Renrong.
Her appearance and temperament are both beautiful, and her eyebrows are as painted.
In the first year of Dabao, he was granted the title of King of Wuning County and had 2,000 households in the town.
In the second year of Dabao's reign, he left the capital and became General Xinwei and Danyang Yin.
In the autumn of this year, Xiao Dawei was killed at the age of thirteen.
Jianping Wang Xiao Daqiu's courtesy name is Renjue.
In the first year of Dabao's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jianping County and was granted a residence of 2,000 households.
Xiao Daqiu is smart and precocious by nature.
When Hou Jing besieged the capital, Emperor Gaozu had always sincerely believed in Buddhism. Every time he swore an oath and made a wish, he often said: If there are any sufferings that sentient beings should suffer, I, Xiao Yan, will bear them all.
Xiao Daqiu was just seven years old at that time. He was surprised when he heard what he said, so he said to his mother: If the emperor is like this, how dare I refuse to suffer?
Therefore, when paying homage to the Buddha at six o'clock in the morning, at noon, at sunset, at the beginning of the night, at the middle of the night, and at the end of the night, he also said: All the suffering and retribution that sentient beings should suffer will be borne by me, Lu Quebi, on your behalf.
This is how he was smart enough to meet people at a young age.
In the second year, he left Beijing and served as general of light vehicles and military commander of Shitousheng.
In the autumn of this year, Xiao Daqiu was killed at the age of eleven.
Xiao Daxin, King of Nghe An, also had the courtesy name Renlang.
When he was four years old, his mother, Mrs. Chen, passed away. He missed his mother and became sad and haggard, just like an adult mourning.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, during the mourning period, he went to greet Tai Sai, crying softly and unable to control himself. Seeing this scene, all the attendants on the left and right also covered their faces and cried.
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Dating was granted the title of King of Yi'an County and was granted a settlement of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Zuoxuan's reign, he left the capital to serve as General Ningyuan and Governor of Langye and Pengcheng counties. He was killed before he could go to his post. He was eleven years old when he died.
Xiao Dazhi, king of Suijian, had the courtesy name Renying.
He has been brave and strong since he was a child, with courage and courage. After the capital was captured, he said with emotion: The real man will destroy these thieves.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
奶媪惊，掩其口曰： 勿妄言，祸将及！
大挚笑曰： 祸至非由此言。
大宝元年，封绥建郡王，邑二千户。
二年，为宁远将军，遇害，时年十岁。
世祖诸男：徐妃生忠壮世子方等，王夫人生贞惠世子方诸，其愍怀太子方矩，夏贤妃生敬皇帝。
自余诸子，并本书无传。
忠壮世子方等，字实相，世祖长子也。
母曰徐妃。
少聪敏，有俊才，善骑射，尤长巧思。
性爱林泉，特好散逸。
尝著论曰： 人生处世，如白驹过隙耳。
一壶之酒，足以养性；一箪之食，足以怡形。
生在蓬蒿，死葬沟壑，瓦棺石椁，何以异兹？
吾尝梦为鱼，因化为鸟。
当其梦也，何乐如之；及其觉也，何忧斯类；良由吾之不及鱼鸟者，远矣。
故鱼鸟飞浮，任其志性；吾之进退，恒存掌握。举手惧触，摇足恐堕。
若使吾终得与鱼鸟同游，则去人间如脱屣耳。
初，徐妃以嫉妒失宠，方等意不自安。世祖闻之，又恶方等，方等益惧，故述论以申其志焉。
会高祖欲见诸王长子，世祖遣方等入侍，方等欣然升舟，冀免忧辱。
行至繇水，值侯景乱，世祖召之，方等启曰： 昔申生不爱其死，方等岂顾其生？
世祖省书叹息，知无还意，乃配步骑一万，使援京都。
贼每来攻，方等必身当矢石。
宫城陷，方等归荆州，收集士马，甚得众和，世祖始叹其能。
方等又劝修筑城栅，以备不虞。
既成，楼雉相望，周回七十余里。
translation: 
The wet nurse was frightened, covered his mouth and said to him: Don't speak carelessly, otherwise disaster will come.
Xiao Dazhi smiled and said: The disaster is not caused by these words.
In the first year of Dabin, Xiao Dazhi was granted the title of Prince of Suijian County, with a settlement of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Dashi, he served as General Ningyuan and was killed. He was ten years old when he died.
The sons of the ancestors: Concubine Xu gave birth to a loyal and strong son, Xiao Fang, etc.; Wang died and gave birth to a Zhenhui son, Xiao Fangzhu; the concubine Prince Xiao Fangju, this book does not record his biological mother, but there is another biography about him; Concubine Xia Xian gave birth to the respectful emperor.
None of the other disciples have been passed down in this book.
Xiao Fang, the Zhongzhuang prince, is the eldest son of Shizu.
The mother is Concubine Xu.
Xiao Fang and others have been smart since childhood and have outstanding talents. They are good at riding horses and archery, and are especially good at coming up with some ingenious ideas.
He naturally loves mountains, forests, springs and rocks, especially a leisurely and secluded life.
I once wrote an article in which I said: Human life in this world is just as short-lived as a white horse encountering a gap.
A pot of wine is enough to nourish your temperament; a basket of food is enough to make your body comfortable.
What is the difference between living among basil and being buried in a ravine after death, and sleeping in a tile coffin or a stone coffin?
I once dreamed that I turned into a fish and then a crow.
Nothing can compare to the joy of being in a dream, and the worries after waking up are not as heavy as anything else. It's really because I'm so far behind Yuwu.
So the fish floats and the crows fly, letting their own temperament flow, while my progress and retreat are always under control. I raise my hands for fear of being touched, and move my feet for fear of falling.
If I could always hang out with fish and birds, then I would leave the world without a care, just as easily as taking off my shoes.
At first, Xu Maggot lost the emperor's favor because of jealousy, and Xiao Fang and others were frightened and uneasy. When Shizu heard about this situation, he hated Xiao Fang and others even more. Xiao Fang and others were even more frightened, so they wrote a treatise to express their aspirations.
When Gaozu wanted to see the eldest son of the kings, Shizu sent Xiao Fang and others to the capital to serve Gaozu. Xiao Fang and others boarded the ship happily, hoping to avoid humiliation and relieve their worries.
When the boat arrived at Yaoshui, Hou Jing was rebelling. The ancestor summoned him back. Xiao Fang and others started a memorial and said: In the past, Shen Sheng did not care about life. How could Fang and others care about life?
When Shizu read Xiao Fang and others' memorial, he sighed. Knowing that Xiao Fang and others had no intention of returning, he assigned Xiao Fang and others 10,000 infantry and cavalry and ordered him to rescue the capital.
Every time the rebels came to attack, Xiao Fang and others would brave the arrows and go to the battlefield in person.
After the palace city was captured, Xiao Fang and others returned to Jingzhou, gathered troops, and won the hearts of the people. The ancestors were amazed by his talents.
Xiao Fang and others also encouraged everyone to build city walls and fences to prepare for danger.
After it was completed, the towers and battlements were connected for more than seventy miles.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
世祖观之甚悦，入谓徐妃曰： 若更有一子如此，吾复何忧！
徐妃不答，垂泣而退。
世祖忿之，因疏其秽行，榜于大阁。
方等入见，益以自危。
时河东王为湘州刺史，不受督府之令，方等乃乞征之，世祖许焉。拜为都督，令帅精卒二万南讨。
方等临行，谓所亲曰： 吾此段出征，必死无二；死而获所，吾岂爱生。
及至麻溪，河东王率军逆战，方等击之，军败，遂溺死，时年二十二。
世祖闻之，不以为戚。
后追思其才，赠侍中、中军将军、扬州刺史，谥曰忠壮世子，并为招魂以哀之。
方等注范晔《后汉书》，未就；所撰《三十国春秋》及《静住子》，行于世。
贞惠世子方诸，字智相，世祖第二子。
母王夫人。
幼聪警博学，明《老》、《易》，善谈玄，风采清越，辞辩锋生，特为世祖所爱，母王氏又有宠。
及方等败没，世祖谓之曰： 不有所废，其何以兴。
因拜为中抚军以自副，又出为郢州刺史，镇江夏，以鲍泉为行事，防遏下流。
时世祖遣徐文盛督众军，与侯景将任约相持未决。方诸恃文盛在近，不恤军政，日与鲍泉蒲酒为乐。
侯景知之，乃遣其将宋子仙率轻骑数百，从间道袭之。
属风雨晦冥，子仙至，百姓奔告，方诸与鲍泉犹不信，曰： 徐文盛大军在下，虏安得来？
始命闭门，贼骑已入，城遂陷，子仙执方诸以归。
王僧辩军至蔡洲，景遂害之。
世祖追赠侍中、大将军。
谥曰贞惠世子。
史臣曰：太宗、世祖诸子，虽开土宇，运属乱离；既拘寇贼，多殒非命。
translation: 
Seeing this scene, Shizu was very happy. He entered the palace and said to Concubine Xu: If there is another son with such talent, I have nothing to worry about.
Concubine Xu did not answer and left in tears.
Shizu was very angry about this, so he listed Xu Fei's unruly behavior one by one, and wrote it down and published it in the main cabinet.
When Xiao Fang and others entered the palace and saw him, they felt even more dangerous and felt uneasy.
At that time, the King of Hedong was the governor of Xiangzhou and did not obey the orders of the governor. Xiao Fang asked to be sent to conquer the King of Hedong. The ancestor agreed to his request, appointed him the governor, and ordered him to lead 20,000 elite troops to march south to conquer.
When Xiao Fang and others left, he said to his close friends: I am going on an expedition this time. There is no doubt that I will die; if I die well, how can I begrudge my life?
Xiao Fang and others led the army to Maxi, and the King of Hedong led his army to fight. Xiao Fang and others led the army to attack, but were defeated. Xiao Fang and others were drowned. He died at the age of twenty-two.
When Shidan heard the news of Xiao Fang and others' deaths, he was not sad.
Later, in memory of Xiao Fang and others' talents, Shizu posthumously awarded Xiao Fang and others the titles of Shizhong, General of the Chinese Army, and Governor of Yangzhou. Mi was a loyal and strong prince, and he called up his soul to mourn him.
Fang et al. annotated Fan Ye's "Hou Mo Shu", but it was not completed. He wrote "Thirty Kingdoms Spring and Autumn" and "Jingzhuzi", which are popular in the world.
Prince Zhenhui, Xiao Fang, also known as Zhixiang, was the second son of Shizu.
The biological mother is Mrs. Wang.
Xiao Fangzhu has been smart, enlightened and erudite since he was a child. He is proficient in "Lao" and "Yi". He is good at talking about metaphysics. His demeanor is elegant and unconventional, his words are fluent and very sharp. Xiao Fangzhu was especially loved by his ancestors, and his biological mother, Wang, was deeply favored.
After Xiao Fang and others died due to military defeat, Shizu said to Xiao Fangzhu: If it is not abandoned, there will be no prosperity.
He appointed Xiao Fangzhu as his lieutenant in the Zhongfu Army, and appointed him as the governor of Yingzhou to guard Jiangxia. He also appointed Bao Quan to be in charge of prefecture affairs to prevent the rebels from flowing down the river.
At that time, Shizu sent Xu Wensheng to lead the army, and they were in a stalemate with Hou Jing's general Ren Yue. The outcome was still undecided. Xiao Fangzhu relied on Xu Wensheng's army nearby. He did not care about military and political affairs. He and Bao Quan had fun every day by waving cattails and drinking.
Hou Jing heard the news, so he sent his general Song Zixian to lead hundreds of light cavalry to attack Xiao Fangzhu from the trail.
It was a windy and rainy day, and the sky was dark. Song Zixian led his army to Liaoxia. The people ran to report, but Lu Youzhan and Baoxing still didn't believe it and said: Xu Wensheng's army guarded the downstream passage, how could the thieves come here?
Then the city gate was ordered to be closed, but the rebel cavalry had already entered the city gate, and Liaoxia City was captured. Song Zixian captured Xiao Fangzhu and returned.
Wang Sengbian led his army to Caizhou, and Hou Jing killed Xiao Fangzhu.
Shizu was posthumously awarded the title of Shizhong and General.
Mi is the crown prince Zhenhui.
Shi Chen said: Although the sons of Taizong and Shizu founded the country and were crowned kings, the country was in a period of chaos and chaos. They were all imprisoned by bandits, and most of them died unexpectedly.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
吁！
可嗟矣。
translation: 
well!
What a sigh!


