Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔者元胎无象，太素流形，对越在天，以为元首，则《记》所谓冬居营窟，夏居橧巢，饮血茹毛，未有麻丝者也。
及燧人钻火，庖牺出震，风宗下武，炎胤昌基，画野无闻，其归一揆。
黄帝则东海南江，登空蹑岱，至于昆峰振辔，崆山防道，存诸汗竹，不可厚诬。
高阳任地依神，帝喾顺天行义。
东逾蟠木，西济流沙，北至幽陵，南抚交址，日月所经，舟车所至，莫匪王臣，不逾兹域。
帝尧时，禹平水土，以为九州。
虞舜登庸，厥功弥劭，表提类而分区宇，判山河而考疆域，冀北创并部之名，燕齐起幽营之号，则《书》所谓肇十有二州，封十有二山者也。
夏功在于唐尧，殷因无所损益。
周武克商，自丰徂镐。
至成王时，改作《禹贡》，徐梁入于青雍，冀野析于幽并。
职方掌天下之土，以周厥利；保章辩九州之野，皆有分星。
东南曰扬州，正南曰荆州，河南曰豫州，正东曰青州，河东曰兗州，正西曰雍州，东北曰幽州，河内曰冀州，正北曰并州。
始皇初并天下，惩战国，削罢列侯，分天下为三十六郡。
三川、河东、南阳、南郡、九江、鄣郡、会稽、颍川、砀郡、泗水、薛郡、东郡、琅邪、齐郡、上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东、代郡、钜鹿、邯郸、上党、太原、云中、九原、雁门、上郡、陇西、北地、汉中、巴郡、蜀郡、黔中、长沙、凡三十五郡，与内史为三十六郡也。
于是兴师逾江，平取百越，又置闽中、南海、桂林、象郡，凡四十郡，郡一守焉。
其他则西临洮而北沙漠，东萦西带，皆临大海。
translation: 
In ancient times, primitive things had no external image. The various substances that made up the universe matched and matched with heaven and became the beginning of all things. As it is said in the "Records", they lived in caves and earthen chambers in winter, and in summer they lived in nests built with firewood, eating hair and drinking blood, without any coverings such as linen or silk.
至于燧人氏钻木取火，庖牺氏始画八卦，女娲氏断鳖足以立四极，炎帝神农氏发展农业，分划疆域，逭一切都是同一道理。
The Yellow Emperor reached the seaside in the east, reached the Yangtze River in the south, and climbed Mount Daiyue in the Kongshan Mountains. Things such as his riding horses in the Kunlun Mountains and his search for the best path in the Kongtong Mountains have been recorded in the annals of history and cannot deceive future generations.
Zhuanxu's Gaoyang family made everyone in the world have their own needs, and the emperor praised the Gaoxin family for following the way of heaven and practicing morality.
Crossing Panmu Mountain in the east, reaching Liusha in the west, starting from Youling in the north, and arriving at Jiaojun in the south. Wherever the moon shines, and the mountains and rivers that boats and cars reach, no one is not a subject of the monarch, and everywhere is the domain of the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Yao, Dayu controlled the land and water and divided the land into nine states.
Yu Shun ascended the throne and became king, and his achievements were even more outstanding. He formulated the calendar, divided the star districts, planned the boundaries of mountains and rivers, and inspected the territory in all directions. He established Bingzhou in northern Hebei and named the Yan and Qi areas as Youzhou and Yingzhou. This is what the Book of History says about the establishment of ten mountains and the establishment of twelve mountains.
夏朝的功业在于唐尧，殷朝沿袭夏曲没有增益减损。
且迭王灭茵，京城自丰迁往镐京。
到周成王时，改写《尚书禹贡》，徐州、凿业并入直、壅蛆，又从幽业、差赵中离析出冀州。
The official is in charge of the land of the world, so as to know the pros and cons of each place, so that each can find its proper place; the official Baozhang, who observes and records astronomy, distinguishes the divisions of the nine states, so that each has its corresponding star area.
The southeast is called Yangzhou, the due south is called Jingzhou, Henan is called Yuzhou, the due east is Qingzhou, the east of Hedong is called Yanzhou, the due west is Yongzhou, the northeast is called Youzhou, the north of the Yellow River is Jizhou, and the due north is called Bingzhou.
When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he learned lessons from the wars in the difficult period, abolished the princes and kings, and divided the world into thirty-six counties.
Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, Zhangjun, Kuaiji, Yingchuan, Dangjun, Sishui, Xuejun, Dongjun, Langye, Qijun, Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoning West, Liaodong, Daijun, Julu, Handan, Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Jiuyuan, Yanmen, Shangjun, Longxi, Beidi, Hanzhong, Bajun, Shujun, Qianzhong, Changsha? There are thirty-five counties in total, and the capital under the jurisdiction of Yu Neishi has a total of thirty-six counties.
Then the army was sent across the Yangtze River to capture the land where Baiqi was pacified. He also established Minzhong, Nanhai, Guilin and Xiangjun, a total of forty counties, each with one county guard.
In the Qin Dynasty, the territory reached Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the western belt around it, all facing the sea.

summary:
summary line 0: It then traces the development of civilization through legendary figures: Suirenshi who drilled wood for fire, Paoxishi who created the eight trigrams, Nüwa who repaired the heavens, and Shennong who developed agriculture and divided territories. The Yellow Emperor traveled extensively, reaching the eastern seaside, the Yangtze River in the south, and Mount Daiyue. Zhuanxu ensured everyone's needs were met, while the Gaoxin family followed heavenly ways. Emperor Yao's reign saw Dayu control floods and divide the land into nine provinces. Yu Shun formulated calendars, divided star districts, and established provinces including Bingzhou, Youzhou, and Yingzhou.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔者元胎无象，太素流形，对越在天，以为元首，则《记》所谓冬居营窟，夏居橧巢，饮血茹毛，未有麻丝者也。
及燧人钻火，庖牺出震，风宗下武，炎胤昌基，画野无闻，其归一揆。
黄帝则东海南江，登空蹑岱，至于昆峰振辔，崆山防道，存诸汗竹，不可厚诬。
高阳任地依神，帝喾顺天行义。
东逾蟠木，西济流沙，北至幽陵，南抚交址，日月所经，舟车所至，莫匪王臣，不逾兹域。
帝尧时，禹平水土，以为九州。
虞舜登庸，厥功弥劭，表提类而分区宇，判山河而考疆域，冀北创并部之名，燕齐起幽营之号，则《书》所谓肇十有二州，封十有二山者也。
夏功在于唐尧，殷因无所损益。
周武克商，自丰徂镐。
至成王时，改作《禹贡》，徐梁入于青雍，冀野析于幽并。
职方掌天下之土，以周厥利；保章辩九州之野，皆有分星。
东南曰扬州，正南曰荆州，河南曰豫州，正东曰青州，河东曰兗州，正西曰雍州，东北曰幽州，河内曰冀州，正北曰并州。
始皇初并天下，惩战国，削罢列侯，分天下为三十六郡。
三川、河东、南阳、南郡、九江、鄣郡、会稽、颍川、砀郡、泗水、薛郡、东郡、琅邪、齐郡、上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东、代郡、钜鹿、邯郸、上党、太原、云中、九原、雁门、上郡、陇西、北地、汉中、巴郡、蜀郡、黔中、长沙、凡三十五郡，与内史为三十六郡也。
于是兴师逾江，平取百越，又置闽中、南海、桂林、象郡，凡四十郡，郡一守焉。
其他则西临洮而北沙漠，东萦西带，皆临大海。
translation: 
In ancient times, primitive things had no external image. The various substances that made up the universe matched and matched with heaven and became the beginning of all things. As it is said in the "Records", they lived in caves and earthen chambers in winter, and in summer they lived in nests built with firewood, eating hair and drinking blood, without any coverings such as linen or silk.
至于燧人氏钻木取火，庖牺氏始画八卦，女娲氏断鳖足以立四极，炎帝神农氏发展农业，分划疆域，逭一切都是同一道理。
The Yellow Emperor reached the seaside in the east, reached the Yangtze River in the south, and climbed Mount Daiyue in the Kongshan Mountains. Things such as his riding horses in the Kunlun Mountains and his search for the best path in the Kongtong Mountains have been recorded in the annals of history and cannot deceive future generations.
Zhuanxu's Gaoyang family made everyone in the world have their own needs, and the emperor praised the Gaoxin family for following the way of heaven and practicing morality.
Crossing Panmu Mountain in the east, reaching Liusha in the west, starting from Youling in the north, and arriving at Jiaojun in the south. Wherever the moon shines, and the mountains and rivers that boats and cars reach, no one is not a subject of the monarch, and everywhere is the domain of the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Yao, Dayu controlled the land and water and divided the land into nine states.
Yu Shun ascended the throne and became king, and his achievements were even more outstanding. He formulated the calendar, divided the star districts, planned the boundaries of mountains and rivers, and inspected the territory in all directions. He established Bingzhou in northern Hebei and named the Yan and Qi areas as Youzhou and Yingzhou. This is what the Book of History says about the establishment of ten mountains and the establishment of twelve mountains.
夏朝的功业在于唐尧，殷朝沿袭夏曲没有增益减损。
且迭王灭茵，京城自丰迁往镐京。
到周成王时，改写《尚书禹贡》，徐州、凿业并入直、壅蛆，又从幽业、差赵中离析出冀州。
The official is in charge of the land of the world, so as to know the pros and cons of each place, so that each can find its proper place; the official Baozhang, who observes and records astronomy, distinguishes the divisions of the nine states, so that each has its corresponding star area.
The southeast is called Yangzhou, the due south is called Jingzhou, Henan is called Yuzhou, the due east is Qingzhou, the east of Hedong is called Yanzhou, the due west is Yongzhou, the northeast is called Youzhou, the north of the Yellow River is Jizhou, and the due north is called Bingzhou.
When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he learned lessons from the wars in the difficult period, abolished the princes and kings, and divided the world into thirty-six counties.
Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, Zhangjun, Kuaiji, Yingchuan, Dangjun, Sishui, Xuejun, Dongjun, Langye, Qijun, Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoning West, Liaodong, Daijun, Julu, Handan, Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Jiuyuan, Yanmen, Shangjun, Longxi, Beidi, Hanzhong, Bajun, Shujun, Qianzhong, Changsha? There are thirty-five counties in total, and the capital under the jurisdiction of Yu Neishi has a total of thirty-six counties.
Then the army was sent across the Yangtze River to capture the land where Baiqi was pacified. He also established Minzhong, Nanhai, Guilin and Xiangjun, a total of forty counties, each with one county guard.
In the Qin Dynasty, the territory reached Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the western belt around it, all facing the sea.

summary:
summary line 1: The text details the evolution of administrative divisions through successive dynasties. During the Xia and Shang dynasties, territorial systems were established and maintained. King Wu of Zhou moved the capital from Feng to Haojing. Under King Cheng of Zhou, the "Yu Gong" was revised, merging some provinces and dividing others. Officials were appointed to manage lands and observe astronomy, distinguishing the nine provinces with their corresponding star regions. The southeast was Yangzhou, due south was Jingzhou, Henan was Yuzhou, due east was Qingzhou, east of Hedong was Yanzhou, due west was Yongzhou, northeast was Youzhou, north of the Yellow River was Jizhou, and due north was Bingzhou.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉祖龙兴，革秦之弊，分内史为三部，更置郡国二十有三，桂阳、江夏、豫章、河内、魏郡、东海、楚国、平原、梁国、定襄、泰山、汝南、淮阳、千乘、东莱、燕国、清河、信都、常山、中山、渤海、广汉、涿郡，合二十三也。
三内史者，河上、渭南、中地也。
《地理志》曰：高祖增二十六，武帝改河上、渭南、中地以为京兆、冯翊、扶风是为三辅也。
文增厥九，广平、城阳、淄川、济南、胶西、胶东、河间、庐江、衡山、武帝改衡山曰六安。
景加其四。
济北、济阴、山阳、北海也。
宣改济北曰东平。
武帝开越攘胡，初置十七，南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、交耻、九真、日南、珠崖、儋耳九郡，平西南夷置牂柯、越嵩、沈黎、汶山、犍为、益州六郡，西置武都郡，又分立零陵郡，合十七郡。
拓土分疆，又增十四。
弘农、临淮、西河、朔方、酒泉、陈留、安定、天水、玄菟、乐浪、广陵、敦煌、武威、张掖。
昭帝少事，又增其一。
金城也。
至平帝元始二年，凡新置郡国七十有一，与秦四十，合一百一十有一。
改雍曰凉，改梁曰益，又置徐州，复夏旧号，南置交址，北有朔方，凡为十三部。
凉、益、荆、扬、青、豫、兗、徐、幽、并、冀十一州，交址、朔方二刺史，合十三部。
光武投戈之岁，在雕秏之辰，郡国萧条，并省者八。
城阳、淄川、高密、胶东、六安、真定、泗水、广阳。
建武十一年，省州牧，复为刺史，员十三人，各掌一州。
明帝置一，永昌也。
章帝置二，任城、吴郡。
和顺改作，其名有九。
和置济北、广阳，顺改淮阳为陈，改楚为彭城，济东为东平，临淮为下邳，千乘为六安，信都为安平，天水为汉阳。
省朔方刺史，合之于司隶，凡十三部，其与西汉不同者，司隶校尉部郡治河南，朔方隶于并部。
translation: 
Mozhibi established a new dynasty, eradicated the shortcomings of the Taiwan system, divided the Gyeonggi region into three parts, and added 23 counties, Guiyang, Jiangxia, Yuzhang, Hanoi, Weijun, Donghai, Chu Guo, Pingyuan, Liangguo, Dingxiang, Taishan, Runan, Huaiyang, Qiancheng, Donglai, Yanguo, Qinghe, Xindu, Changshan, Zhongshan, Bohai, Guanghan, and Zhuojun, a total of twenty-three counties.
The internal history is divided into three parts: Hui Shang, Hui Mu and Shi Si.
"Hanshu Geography" says: On the 26th day of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Wu changed the names of Heshang, Weinan and Zhongdi to Jingzhao, Yufeng Yi and Fufeng. This is the Sanfu area.
Emperor Yiwen added nine counties, Guangping, Chengyang, Zichuan, Jinan, Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Hejian, Lujiang, and Hengshan? Emperor Wu changed the name of Hengshan to Liu'an.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty established four additional counties.
Jibei, Jiyin, Shanyang, Beihai.
Emperor Xuan changed the name of Jibei to Dongping.
When Emperor Wu entered Vietnam and opened up the Hu lands, he first established seventeen counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaoshi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhuya, and Dan'er. After pacifying the southwestern barbarians, six counties were established: Zangke, Yuesong, Shenli, Wenshan, Qianwei, and Yizhou. Wudu County was established in the west, and Lingling County was separated, for a total of seventeen counties.
Land was opened up to expand the territory, and fourteen more counties were added.
Hongnong, Linhuai, Xihe, Shuofang, Jiuquan, Chenliu, Anding, Tianshui, Xuantu, Lelang, Guangling, Dunhuang, Wuwei, Zhangye.
Emperor Zhao had fewer changes and established an additional county.
Jincheng.
By the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, there were 71 newly established counties in total, which together with the 40 counties of the Qin Dynasty, made a total of 111 counties.
Yongzhou was renamed Liangzhou, Liangzhou was renamed Yizhou, Xuzhou was set up, and the old name was restored. Jiaozhi was set up in the south, and Shuozhou was set up in the north, making a total of thirteen divisions.
There are eleven prefectures: Liang, Yi, Jing, Yang, Qing, Yu, Yan, Xu, You, Bing, and Ji, and two prefectures of Jiaoshi and Shuofang, totaling thirteen divisions.
After Emperor Moguang Wu's war subsided, when Shuhan was first established, people's livelihood was in decline, household registrations were reduced, counties were in decline and scattered, and eight counties were merged to save the province.
Chengyang, Zichuan, Gaomi, Jiaodong, Lu'an, Zhending, Shangshui, Guangyang.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, the state pastoralist was abolished and the official position of the state governor was restored. Each of the thirteen state governors was in charge of a state.
Emperor Moming established a county, Yongchang.
Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty established two counties, Rencheng and Wu.
Emperor He and Emperor Moshun of the Han Dynasty added or changed nine counties.
Wing Tong set up Bianli and Lubao, and Mu changed the name to Jinyan to Su, Chu to Yilang, Shansu to Secuo, Luo Chen to Gongpi, Wang Chui to Rongda, Lao to Anping, and Tianshui to Hanyang.
The governor of Shuofang was abolished and merged with Sili, with a total of thirteen divisions. The difference from the Western Han Dynasty was that the county of the Xiaowei Division of Sili was in Henan, while Shuofang was subordinate to Bingbu.

summary:
summary line 2: When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he abolished the feudal princes and divided the empire into thirty-six counties, including Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, and others. The Qin territory extended to Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the sea in the east. After the Qin dynasty fell, the Han dynasty established new administrative systems. Emperor Gaozu of Han added twenty-three counties, while Emperor Wu established seventeen counties after conquering Vietnam and the Hu lands, and six more after pacifying the southwestern barbarians. By the second year of Emperor Ping's Yuanshi period, there were 111 counties total, divided into thirteen divisions including Liang, Yi, Jing, Yang, Qing, Yu, Yan, Xu, You, Bing, Ji, Jiaozhi, and Shuofang.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
而郡国百有八焉。
省前汉八，分置五，改旧名七，因旧九十六，少前汉三也。
桓灵颇增于前，复置六郡。
桓，高阳、高凉、博陵；灵，南安、鄱阳、庐陵。
魏武定霸，三方鼎立，生宁版荡，关洛荒芜，所置者十二，新兴、乐平、西平、新平、略阳、阴平、带方、谯、乐陵、章武、南乡、襄阳。
所省者七，上郡、朔方、五原、云中、定襄、渔阳、庐江。
而文帝置七，朝歌、阳平、弋阳、魏兴、新城、义阳、安丰。
得汉郡者十有一焉。吴主大皇帝初置郡五，临贺、武昌、珠崖、新安、庐陵南部。
少帝、景帝各四，少，临川、临海、衡阳、湘东。
景，天门、建安、建平、合浦北部。
归命侯亦置十有二郡，始安、始兴、邵陵、安成、新昌、武平、九德、吴兴、东阳、桂林、荥阳、宜都。
得汉郡者十有八焉。
晋武帝太康元年，既平孙氏，凡增置郡国二十有三，荥阳、上洛、顿丘、临淮、东莞、襄城、汝阴、长广、广宁、昌黎、新野、随郡、阴平、义阳、毗陵、宣城、南康、晋安、宁浦、始平、咯阳、乐平、南平。
省司隶置司州，别立梁、秦、宁、平四州，仍吴之广州，凡十九州，司、冀、兗、豫、荆、徐、扬、青、幽、平、并、雍、凉、秦、梁、益、宁、交、广州。
郡国一百七十三，仍吴所置二十五，仍蜀新置十一，仍魏所置二十一，仍汉旧九十三，置二十三。
以为冠带之国，尽有殷周之土。
若乃敦庞于天地之始，昭晰于牺农之世，用长黎元，未争疆埸。
而玉环楛矢，夷裘风驾，南翚表贶，东风入律，光乎上德，奚远弗臻。
然则星象丽天，山河纪地，端掖裁其弘敞，崤函判其都邑，仰观俯察，万物攸归。
是以洛沚咸阳，宛然秦汉，晋滨河西，同知尧禹，于兹新邑，宅是镐京，五尺童子皆能口诵者，史官弗之书也。
昔庖牺氏生于成纪，而为天子，都于陈。
神农氏都陈，而别营于曲阜。
黄帝生于寿丘。而都于涿鹿。
少昊始自穷桑，而迁都曲阜。
颛顼始自穷桑，而徙邑商丘。
高辛即号，建都于亳。
translation: 
There are one hundred and eight counties.
The eight counties of Youmo were cancelled, and five counties were divided. Seven counties changed their old names, and ninety-six counties continued to use their old names, three counties less than those in the Western Han Dynasty.
Emperor Huan and Emperor Mo Ling of the Han Dynasty increased the number of counties compared with the previous dynasties and established six more counties.
Emperor Huan established Gaoyang, Gaoliang, and Bobi; Emperor Ling established Nan'an, Poyang, and Luling.
Emperor Wu of Wei dominated one area, and the three kingdoms of Wei, Shu and Wu were established. The people were in turmoil and displaced. The areas of Mengsheng and Piamo were deserted. Twelve counties were established: Xinxing, Leping, Xiping, Xinping, Lueyang, Yinping, Daifang, Qiao, Leling, Zhangwu, Nanxiang, and Xiangyang.
Cancel Shangjun, Shuofang, Wuyuan, Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Yuyang and Lujiang.
Emperor Wen established seven counties: Chaoge, Yangping, Yiyang, Weixing, Xincheng, Yiyang, and Anfeng.
During the Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, the First Lord of Shu established nine counties for the first time: Badong, Brazil, Zitong, Jiangyang, Wenshan, Hanjia, Zhuti, Danqu, and Fuling. Shu has eleven counties and counties in Qu. The Great Emperor Wu Zhu established five counties for the first time: Linhe, Wuchang, Zhuya, Xin'an, and southern Luling.
The Shao Di and Jing Di set up four counties, and the Shao Di set up Linchuan, Linhai, Hengyang and Xiangdong.
Emperor Jing established Tianmen, Jian'an, Jianping and the northern part of Hepu.
Yuleibao also has twelve counties, Shi'an, Shixing, Shaoling, Ancheng, Xinchang, Wuping, Jiude, Wuxing, Dongyang, Guilin, Xingyang, and Yidu.
It occupies eighteen counties of Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taikang, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, the power of the Sun family of Wu was pacified, and a total of twenty-three additional counties were added, including Xingyang, Shangluo, Dunqiu, Linhuai, Dongguan, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Changguang, Guangning, Changli, Xinye, Suijun, Yinping, Yiyang, Piling, Xuancheng, Nankang, Jin'an, Ningpu, Shiping, Geyang, Leping, and Nanping.
Seven counties were abolished and Sizhou was established, and four more states were established: Liangzhou, Qinzhou, Ningzhou, and Pingzhou. The name of Guangzhou of Wu State was used, and there were nineteen states in total: Si, Ji, Yan, Yu, Jing, Xu, Yang, Qing, You, Ping, Bing, Yong, Liang, Qin, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guangzhou.
There are one hundred and seventy-three counties, including twenty-five counties established by the Wu State, eleven newly established counties by the Shu State, and twenty-one counties established by the Wei State. The ninety-three old counties of the Han Dynasty were followed, and twenty-three counties were established.
In this way, it became a great civilized country and owned all the territories of Yin and Zhou.
As a result, it is more abundant than in the primitive era and more prominent than the achievements of Fuxi and Shennong. The purpose is to support the people of Li instead of competing for territory.
Those rings made of jade and arrows made of wood, the foreign furs and windy chariots, the flocks of southern birds patronizing us, the spring breeze harmonious with the smooth rhythms, the emperor's achievements are prosperous, everywhere.
However, the signs of the stars are attached to the sky, the mountains and rivers govern the earth, the stars of Duanmen and Yemen plan the vast area, and the mountains and rivers of Hangu distinguish the counties and cities. Looking up at the sky and the geography, everything in the world belongs to the dynasty.
Therefore, Luo Zhizhou and Xianyang are like Qin and Mo. Jin is adjacent to the west of the Yellow River. People in the past dynasties know that Yao and Yu settled in the new capital of Haojing. The local five-foot-long boys can recite it skillfully, and historians do not need to record it in the history books.
In the past, the Fuxi family was born in Chengji, and as the emperor, Chen was his capital.
The Shennong family originally made its capital Yusu, but later established Dihuang as its capital.
Dong Tong was born in Huaqiu and established his capital in Gu.
He first lived in Chunuo, and later moved his capital to Dihuang.
Tixi first lived in Saiduo, and later moved the city to Pandan.
Changui ascended the throne and established his capital in Taiwan.

summary:
summary line 3: The text describes how later dynasties continued to modify territorial divisions. During the Later Han, Emperor Guangwu merged eight counties due to population decline. Subsequent emperors added or changed various counties. During the Three Kingdoms period, Wei, Shu, and Wu each established new counties. By the first year of Taikang under Emperor Wu of Jin, after pacifying the Wu state, twenty-three additional counties were established, bringing the total to 173 counties across nineteen provinces. The text notes that this represented a great civilized country owning all territories of Yin and Zhou.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
孙卿子曰： 不登高山，不知天之高；不临深谿，不知地之厚也。
大哉坤象，万物资生，载昆华而不坠，倾河海而宁泄。
考卜惟王，乘飞驻轸，睨弇山而镌勒，览曾城以为玩。
时逢稽浸，道接陵夷，平王东迁，星离豆剖，当涂驭寓，瓜分鼎立。
世祖武皇帝接千祀之余，当八尧之禅，先王桑梓，罄宇来归，斯固可得而言者矣。
惠皇不虞，中州尽弃，永嘉南度，纶行建鄴，九分天下而有二焉。
昔大禹观于浊河而受绿字，寰瀛之内可得而言也。
天有七星，地有七表；天有四维，地有四渎。
八纮之外，名为八极。
地不足东南，天不足西北。
八极之广，东西二亿三万一千三百里，南北二亿三万一千三百里。
自地至天，半八极之数，自下亦如之。
昔黄帝令竖亥步自东极，至于西极，五亿十万九千八百八步。
史臣案，凡周天积百七万九百一十三里，径三十五万六千九百七十里。
所谓南北为经，东西为纬。
天有十二次，日月之所躔；地有十二辰，王侯之所国也。
或因生得姓，因功命土，祁、酉、燕、齐，在乎兹域。
昔黄帝旁行天下，方制万里，得百里之国万区，则《周易》所谓 首出庶物，万国咸宁 者也。
昔在帝尧，叶和万邦，制八家为邻，三邻为朋，三朋为里，五里为邑，十邑为都，十都为师，州十有二师焉。
夏后氏东渐于海，西被于流沙，南浮于江，而朔南暨声教，穷竖亥所步，莫不率俾，会群臣于涂山，执玉帛者万国。
于是九州之内，作为五服。
天子之国，内五百里甸服，百里赋纳总，二百里纳铚，三百里纳秸服，四百里粟，五百里米。
translation: 
King Youyi said: If you don't climb a mountain, you don't know how high the sky is; if you don't face the abyss, you don't know how thick the earth is.
The earth is grand, and all things are born on the ground. It can carry Kunlun and Jianshan without falling, and it can be carried back to the sea without leakage.
The king was convinced, so he took a carriage and parked his car to see the sights. He looked at the stone inscriptions on Shunxi Mountain in the distance, and looked at the city walls stacked on top of each other as if he were admiring them.
The times were stagnant, the political system was in decline, King Ping of Zhou moved eastward, and the princes were in dispute; Xuan Wei was in power, and the Three Kingdoms were in power.
Emperor Zuwu of the Jin Dynasty inherited a thousand-year legacy and accepted the abdication. The former king's homeland all belonged to the Jin State, so he could talk about territorial matters.
Saitong was unprepared, and the Central Plains were completely abandoned. In the Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, his sphere of influence moved southward to Jianye, which was the only one in the world.
In the past, Dayu observed the turbid Yellow River and found its roundness, so that he could talk about the affairs in the sea.
There are seven stars in the Big Dipper in the sky, and there are seven layers of earth on the earth. There are four corners in the sky, and there are four big rivers on the earth that flow eastward into the sea.
The farthest places in all directions are called Baji.
The terrain becomes lower in the southeast and the sky tilts toward the northwest.
Baji is vast, 203,1300 miles from east to west, and 203,1300 miles from north to south.
The distance from the earth to the sky is half the width of the eight poles, and the same is true from the ground to the ground.
Previously, Huangdi ordered Shuhai to measure the steps from Shuji to the West Pole, a total of 500,098,08 steps.
In the case of Shi Chen, the entire sky is 1,070,913 miles in total and 356,970 miles in diameter.
North and south are longitudes, and east and west are latitudes.
There are twelve times in the sky, which are the paths of the moon; there are twelve times in the earth, which are the areas where princes establish states.
Some states got their surnames from their ancestors' birthplaces, and some named their regions because of their achievements. Qi, You, Yan, and Qi are among these regions.
Previously, the Yellow Emperor traveled all over the world, governed thousands of miles, and gained nearly 10,000 countries with a radius of 100 miles. This is what the "Book of Changes" said: "Beyond the world, all nations will be at peace."
During the reign of Emperor Yao, many states were coordinated. The system was organized with eight families as neighbors, three neighbors as friends, three friends as li, five li as towns, ten towns as capitals, ten capitals as divisions, and one state had twelve divisions.
The territory of the Xia Hou family was limited to the seaside, with deserts in the west and the Yangtze River Basin in the south. Both the north and the south knew the king's authority and education, and all the people within the reach of Shuhai's pace were obedient.
So it was divided into five servers within Kyushu.
In the country where the emperor is located, five hundred miles will be used as a meadow, bundles of grain must be paid as taxes within one hundred miles, cut ears of grain must be paid within two hundred miles, threshed crop stalks must be paid within three hundred miles, millet must be paid within four hundred miles, and rice must be paid within five hundred miles.

summary:
summary line 4: The document provides extensive detail on the geographical measurements and cosmological understanding of the ancient world. It describes the eight poles (Baji) as being 203,1300 miles from east to west and the same from north to south. The distance from earth to heaven was half the width of the eight poles. The text explains that there are seven stars in the Big Dipper and seven layers of earth, with four corners in the sky and four great rivers flowing eastward into the sea. The terrain becomes lower in the southeast while the sky tilts toward the northwest.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
甸服外五百里侯服，百里采，二百里任，三百里候。
侯服外五百里绥服，三百里揆文教，二百里奋武卫。
绥服外五百里要服，三百里夷，二百里蔡。
要服外五百里荒服，三百里蛮，二百里流。
讫于四海，弼成五服，五服至于五千里。
夏德中微，遇有穷之乱。
少康中兴，不失旧物。
自孔甲之后，以至于桀，诸侯相兼，其能存者三千余国，方于涂山，十损其七矣。
成汤败桀于焦，迁鼎于亳，伊挚、仲虺之徒，大明宪典。
王者之制爵禄，公侯伯子男凡五等。
天子之田方千里，公侯田方百里，伯七十里，子男五十里。
不能五十里者，不达于天子，附于诸侯，曰附庸。
凡四海之内九州，州方千里。
州建百里之国三十，七十里之国六十，五十里之国百有二十，凡二百一十国。
名山大泽不以封，其余以为附庸间田。
八州，州二百一十国。
天子之县内，百里之国九。
七十里之国二十有一，五十里之国六十有三，凡九十三国。
名山大泽不以班，其余以禄士，以为间田。
凡九州，千七百七十三国。
天子之元士，诸侯之附庸，不与。
天子百里之内以供官，千里之内以为御，千里之外设方伯。
五国以为属，属有长；十国以为连，连有帅；三十国以为卒，卒有正；二百一十国以为州，州有伯。
八州，八伯，五十六正，百六十八帅，三百三十六长。
八伯各以其属属于天子之老二人，分天下为左右，曰二伯。
translation: 
The five hundred miles outside the Dianfu are the marquis's clothes, the one hundred miles are the fiefdoms of the officials, the two hundred miles are the nobility, and the three hundred miles are the marquis.
The five hundred miles outside the Houfu are Suifu, the three hundred miles are devoted to culture and education, and the two hundred miles are devoted to martial arts and strengthening defense.
Five hundred miles outside of Suifu are required to obey, three hundred miles follow the normal way, and two hundred miles are tax exempted.
The five hundred miles beyond the main gate are Huangfu, three hundred miles are Barbarian, and two hundred miles are Liuli.
Reaching the four seas, it became a system of five clothes, and the geographical scope of the five clothes was five thousand miles in radius.
The political virtues of the Xia Dynasty declined and they encountered the Youqiu Rebellion.
Shaokang was revived without losing his original land and state.
From the time of Kong Jia to the time when Jie was in power, the princes merged with each other, and more than 3,000 states were able to survive. Compared with the time when the Xia Hou family gathered the princes at Tushan, they lost about seven-tenths.
Chengtang defeated Jie in Jiao and moved the capital to Bo. Yi Zhi, Zhong Hui and others formulated a strict code of law.
The king formulated the salary and salary for the titles, and the titles were divided into five levels: Duke, Marquis, Uncle, Son, and Male.
The emperor's field is a thousand li in circumference, that of a duke is a hundred li, that of an uncle is seventy li, and that of a son is fifty li.
Those who are less than fifty miles away have no contact with the emperor and belong to the princes, and are called vassals.
Within the Four Seas there are nine states, each with a radius of a thousand miles.
Each state established thirty feudal states with a width of one hundred miles, sixty feudal states with a width of seventy miles, and one hundred and twenty feudal states with a width of fifty miles, for a total of two hundred and ten feudal states.
Mingshan Daze cannot be used as fiefdom, and the rest is regarded as vassal land.
There are 210 feudal states in eight states across the country.
Within the boundaries of the state where the emperor is located, there are nine hundred-mile feudal states.
There are twenty-one feudal states of seventy miles, and sixty-three feudal states of fifty miles, for a total of ninety-three kingdoms.
Famous mountains and swamps cannot be enfeoffed, and the rest of the land is used as salary for the scholars and as idle land after enfeoffment.
There are nine states in the country, with a total of 1,773 feudal states.
The emperor's noble men and the vassals of the princes are not among them.
The emperor's land tax within a hundred miles provided for official use, and within a thousand miles provided food and clothing.
The five kingdoms become one vassal, each with a commander; the ten kingdoms form one company, each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms form one pawn, each pawn has a pawn commander; the two hundred and ten kingdoms form one state, and each state has a prefect.
There are eight uncles in eight states, fifty-six are honest, one hundred and sixty-eight are handsome, and three hundred and thirty-six are long.
Each of the eight uncles is called the second uncle according to the two ministers whose country belongs to the emperor, and the world is divided into left and right.

summary:
summary line 5: The text extensively describes the feudal system established by various dynasties. Under the Xia dynasty, the territory was divided into five service zones (five fu) extending 5000 miles in radius. The system included Dianfu (imperial domain), Houfu (marquis domain), Suifu (submission domain), Yaofu (essential domain), and Huangfu (wilderness domain), each with specific tax and service requirements. The Zhou dynasty established five ranks of nobility—Duke, Marquis, Earl, Viscount, and Baron—with specific land allocations. The emperor's field was 1000 li in circumference, while dukes received 100 li, earls 70 li, and viscounts 50 li. The text notes that during the Zhou dynasty's peak, there were 13,714,933 people and no crimes were committed.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
方千里曰国畿，其外方五百里曰侯畿，又其外方五百里曰甸畿，又其外方五百里曰男畿，又其外方五百里曰采畿，又其外方五百里曰卫畿，又其外方五百里曰蛮畿，又其外方五百里曰夷畿，又其外方五百里曰镇畿，又其外方五百里曰籓畿。
畿，田限也。自王城以外，面五千里为界，有分限者九也。
于时治致太平，政称刑措，民口千三百七十一万四千九百三十三，盖周之盛者也。
其衰也，则礼乐征伐出自诸侯，强吞弱而众暴寡。
春秋之初，尚有千二百国；迄获麟之末，二百四十二年，弑君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走不得保其社稷者不可胜数，而见于《春秋》经传者百有七十国焉。
百三十九知其所居，鲁、邾、郑、宋、纪、卫、西、莒、齐、陈、杞、蔡、邢、郕、晋、薛、许、邓、秦、曹、楚、随、黄、梁、虞、郧、小邾、徐、燕、鄀、麋、舒、庸、郯、莱、吴、越、有穷、三苗、瓜州、有虞、东、共、宿、申、夷、向、南燕、滕、凡、戴、息、郜、芮、魏、淳于、谷、巴、州、蓼、罗、赖、牟、葛、谭、萧、遂、滑、权、鄣、霍、耿、江、冀、弦、道、柏、微、鄫、厉、项、密、任、须句、颛臾、顿、管、雍、毕、丰、邘、应、蒋、茅、胙、夔、介、焦、沈、六、巢、根牟、唐、黎、郇瑕、寒、有鬲、斟灌、斟寻、过、有过、戈、偪阳、邿、铸、豕韦、唐杜、杨、豳、郐、观、扈、邳、胡、黎、大庭、骀、岐、邶、锺吾、浦姑、昆吾、房、密须、甲父、鄅、桐、亳、韩、赵。
三十一国尽亡其处，祭、极、荀、贾、贰、轸、绞、于余丘、阳、箕、英氏、毛、聃、莘、偪、封父、仍、有仍、崇、鄟、庸、姺、奄、商奄、褒姒、蓐、有缗、阙巩、飂、鬷、穷桑。
蛮夷戎狄不在其间。
五伯迭兴，总其盟会。
陵夷至于战国，遂有七王，韩、魏、赵、燕、齐、秦、楚。
又有宋、卫、中山，不断如线，如三晋篡夺，亦称孤也。
《司马法》广陈三代，曰：古者六尺为步，步百为亩，亩百为夫，夫三为屋，屋三为井。
translation: 
A thousand miles in length and breadth within the Wang Ji is the Guo Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Guo Ji is the Hou Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Hou Ji is the Ding Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Ding Ji is the Nan Ji, and the five hundred miles beyond the Nan Ji is the Cai Ji. , the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Wei Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Man Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Man Ji are the Yi Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Yi Ji are the Zhen Ji, and the further five hundred miles outside are the Fan Ji.
Ji is the boundary of the field. From Baiwang City to the outside, it is bounded by five thousand miles from east to west and from north to south. There are nine kis that divide the land.
At that time, the country's governance was at peace, and its politics and religion could be described as clear and clear. No one committed a crime and the criminal law was not used. There were 13,714,933 people, which was probably the heyday of the Zhou Dynasty.
When the Zhou royal family declined, the system of rituals, music, and conquests were all controlled by the princes. The weak preyed on the strong, and the strong bullied the weak.
At the beginning of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were still 1,200 kingdoms. By the end of Lu Aigong's hunt for Lin in the west, 36 monarchs had been killed in 242 years, and 52 countries had perished.
One hundred and thirty-nine of them know the location of their country, including Lu, Zhu, Zheng, Song, Ji, Wei, Xi, Ju, Qi, Chen, Qi, Cai, Xing, Xi, Jin, Xue, Xu, Deng, Qin, Cao, Chu, Sui, Huang, Liang, Yu, Yun, Xiaozhu, Xu, Yan, Wei, Mi, and Shu , Yong, Tan, Lai, Wu, Yue, Youqiong, Sanmiao, Guazhou, Youyu, Dong, Gong, Su, Shen, Yi, Xiang, Nanyan, Teng, Fan, Dai, Xi, Gao, Rui, Wei, Chunyu, Gu, Ba, Zhou, Liao, Luo, Lai, Mou, Ge, Tan, Xiao, Sui, Hua, Quan , Zhang, Huo, Geng, Jiang, Ji, Xian, Dao, Bai, Wei, Juan, Li, Xiang, Mi, Ren, Xuju, Zhuanyu, Dun, Guan, Yong, Bi, Feng, Xie, Ying, Jiang, Mao, Xun, Kui, Jie, Jiao, Shen, Liu, Chao, Genmu, Tang, Li, Xunxia, Han, You Li, Zhenguan, Zhexun, Guo, Youguo, Ge, Biyang, Yi, Zhu, Weiwei, Tangdu, Yang, Bin, Hao, Guan, Hu, Pi, Hu, Li, Dating, Ni, Qi, Bei, Zhongwu, Pugu, Kunwu, Fang, Mixu, Jiafu, Zhen, Tong, Bo, Han, Zhao.
Thirty-one countries have disappeared, Ji, Ji, Xun, Jia, Er, Zhen, Jiao, Yuqiu, Yang, Ji, Yingshi, Mao, Dan, Xin, Bi, Fengfu, still, Youyi, Chong, Juan, Yong, Ju, Yan, Shang Yan, Baosi, Xuan, Youmin, Quegong, Xiang, Ji, Qiongsang.
Barbarians, Rongdi, and others are not included.
The five hegemons are more prosperous and lead the alliance among the princes.
The royal family declined and during the Warring States Period, seven hegemons emerged: Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu.
There are also the Song, Wei, and Zhongshan dynasties, which are inseparable. For example, the three dynasties of Han, Zhao, and Wei were divided into the Jin Dynasty and each became king.
"Sima Law" extensively states the system of three ancient dynasties, which says: In ancient times, six feet was one step, one hundred steps was one acre, one hundred acres was one husband, three husbands was one house, and three houses was one well field.

summary:
summary line 6: The document traces the decline of the Zhou royal family and the rise of the Spring and Autumn period, when 36 monarchs were killed and 52 countries perished over 242 years. It lists 139 known countries including Lu, Zhu, Zheng, Song, Ji, Wei, and others, plus 31 countries that disappeared. The five hegemons emerged, followed by the seven warring states of Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu. The text describes the well-field system in detail, where land was divided into nine squares of 100 mu each, with eight families jointly cultivating the central public field.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
秦始皇既得志于天下，访周之败，以为处士横议，诸侯寻戈，四夷交侵，以弱见夺，于是削去五等焉。
汉兴，创艾亡秦孤立而败，于是割裂封疆，立爵二等，功臣侯者百有余邑。
于时民罹秦项，户口凋弊，大侯不过万家，小者五六百户，而尊王子弟，大启九国。
古者有分土而无分民，若乃大者跨州连郡，小则十有余城，以户口为差降，略封疆之远近，所谓分民自汉始也。
起雁门以东，尽辽阳，为燕代。常山以南，太行左转，渡河济，渐于海，为齐赵。
谷泗以注，奄有龟蒙，为梁楚。
东带江湖，薄会稽，为荆吴。
北界淮濒，略庐衡，为淮南。
波汉之阳，亘九疑，为长沙。
诸侯比境，周匝三垂，外接胡越。
天子自有三河、东郡、颍川、南阳，自江陵以不西至巴蜀，北至云中，西至陇西，与京师内史，凡十五郡。
文帝采贾生之议分齐赵，景帝用朝错之计削吴楚。
武帝施主父之册，下推恩之令，使诸侯王得分户邑以封子弟，不行黜陟，而籓国自析。
自此以来，齐分为七，赵分为六，梁分为五，淮南分为三。
皇子始立者大国不过十余城，长沙、燕、代虽有旧名，皆亡南北边矣。
自文景与民休息，至平帝元始二年，民户千二百二十三万三千六十二，口五千九百五十九万四千九百七十八，其地东西九千三百二里，南北万三千三百六十八里。
大率十里一亭，亭有长。
十亭一乡，乡有三老，有秩啬夫、游徼各一人。
县大率方百里，民稠则减，稀则旷，乡、亭亦如之。
皆秦制也。
光武中兴，不逾前制，东海王疆以去就有礼，故优以大封，兼食鲁郡二十九县，其余称为宠锡者，兼一郡而已。
translation: 
After Qin Shihuang took control of the world, he looked for the reasons for the failure of the Gu Dynasty. He believed that it was due to the wanton discussion of the officials, the warlike feudal princes, and the mutual invasion of the barbarians. The Zhou royal family was eliminated due to its weakness, so the fifth-class titles were cancelled.
When the Han Dynasty arose, it accepted the lesson of Qin's isolation and defeat, so it divided the territory and established second-class titles. Meritorious officials were granted more than a hundred fiefs.
At that time, the people experienced the rule of the Qin Dynasty and the disputes between Chu and Hui. The population declined. There were only 10,000 households in the large feudal kingdoms and only 500 or 600 households in the small ones. Therefore, the Han Dynasty respected the children of the royal family and expanded the nine kingdoms extensively.
In ancient times, land was enfeoffed but not the population. As a result, large fiefdoms spanned states and counties, while small ones only had more than ten cities. The divisions were based on households and the distance of the land boundaries. The so-called division of people began with ridges.
It is covered from the east of Lidan to Liaozhou. To the south of Limulus Mountain, the Holy Land of Sai extends eastward, passing through Donghui and Zhacheng, to the seaside, where it is called Chaxang.
The place where Tong Mi and Sicheng flowed in, including Gu Dan and Sha Ye, was Luan Chu.
To the east is the Kenliao Huiting tide, which is close to the Heshan area and is called Xingxing.
To the north is the Jinhui coast, including Luchong, which is He.
To the north and to the north bank of Zhuisai, across Lixingdi, is Kentu.
The borders of the princes are connected, surrounded by three borders, and adjacent to Hu and Pad on the outside.
The emperor himself had Sandan, Sedeng, Ticong, and Luzhui, from the west to Danshu, to the north to Zhoushi, to the west to Longyou, and the Sanfu area of ​​​​the capital, a total of fifteen counties.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty adopted Yi Sheng's suggestion to divide Man Zhao, and Xing Tong used the strategy of reclamation to reduce Cheng Chu.
Gentong implemented the suggestion of the chief fortress and issued the edict of Tuien, so that the princes and kings could allocate population and food to their children. The court would not decide on promotion, demotion or deposed, and the vassal state would handle it on its own.
From then on, Cha was divided into seven, Fang was divided into six, Chi was divided into five, and Huainan was divided into three.
The newly enfeoffed prince's great enfeoffment did not exceed more than a dozen cities. Changsi, Xie, and Youbi retained their old names, but lost the north and south sides.
From the time Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing promoted recuperation to the second year of Doumian, Emperor Ping, there were 12,233,062 households, 59,594,978 people, and a land of 9,302 miles from east to west and 13,368 miles from north to south.
There is roughly one pavilion every ten miles, with a pavilion length.
There are ten pavilions and one township. There are three elders in the township, one each for Zhi, Shifu and Youyou.
Each county is about a hundred miles long and horizontal, with less densely populated land and more sparsely populated land. The same is true for townships and pavilions.
They are all systems of the Qin Dynasty.
Lian Guanggen's resurgence did not go beyond the system of the previous generation. King Xingqiang of the East China Sea, because his stay, advance and retreat behavior was in line with etiquette, so he was generously rewarded and given twenty-nine counties in the overlapping counties as his fiefdom. The other officials who were granted the title due to favor only took one county as their fiefdom.

summary:
summary line 7: The text concludes by describing the administrative systems of the Qin and Han dynasties. After Qin Shihuang abolished the five-rank nobility system, the Han dynasty established second-class titles, granting fiefs to meritorious officials. By Emperor Ping's reign, there were 12,233,062 households and 59,594,978 people, with territory extending 9,302 miles east to west and 13,368 miles north to south. The document details the system of pavilions every ten miles, townships every ten pavilions, and the roles of village elders and other officials. It notes that by the third year of a later reign, there were 10,677,960 households with 56,486,856 people, representing an era of increasing population.

