Chunk 0: 
original: 
卫康叔名封，周武王同母少弟也。其次尚有冉季，冉季最少。
武王已克殷纣，复以殷余民封纣子武庚禄父，比诸侯，以奉其先祀勿绝。
为武庚未集，恐其有贼心，武王乃令其弟管叔、蔡叔傅相武庚禄父，以和其民。
武王既崩，成王少。
周公旦代成王治，当国。
管叔、蔡叔疑周公，乃与武庚禄父作乱，欲攻成周。
周公旦以成王命兴师伐殷，杀武庚禄父、管叔，放蔡叔，以武庚殷余民封康叔为卫君，居河、淇间故商墟。
周公旦惧康叔齿少，乃申告康叔曰： 必求殷之贤人君子长者，问其先殷所以兴，所以亡，而务爱民。
告以纣所以亡者以淫于酒，酒之失，妇人是用，故纣之乱自此始。
为《梓材》，示君子可法则。
故谓之《康诰》《酒诰》《梓材》以命之。
康叔之国，既以此命，能和集其民，民大说。
成王长，用事，举康叔为周司寇，赐卫宝祭器，以章有德。
康叔卒，子康伯代立。
康伯卒，子考伯立。
考伯卒，子嗣伯立。
嗣伯卒，子伯立。
伯卒，子靖伯立。
靖伯卒，子贞伯立。
贞伯卒，子顷侯立。
顷侯厚赂周夷王，夷王命卫为侯。
顷侯立十二年卒，子厘侯立。
厘侯十三年，周厉王出奔于彘，共和行政焉。
二十八年，周宣王立。
四十二年，厘侯卒，太子共伯余立为君。
translation: 
Uncle Kang of Wei State was named Feng, and he was the half-brother of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty. They also had a younger brother named Ran Ji, who was the youngest.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin Zhou, he granted the remnants of Yin Zhou to King Zhou's son Wu Geng Lufu, making him the same as the princes, so that they could worship their ancestors and pass them on from generation to generation.
Because Wu Geng had not fully obeyed, King Wu was worried that Wu Geng had rebellious intentions, so he sent his younger brothers Guan Shu and Cai Shu to monitor and assist Wu Geng's father to appease the people.
After King Wu died, King Cheng was young and still in his infancy.
Zhou Gongdan took charge of state affairs instead of King Cheng.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected Zhou Gongdan, so they launched a rebellion with Wu Genglu's father to attack Chengzhou.
Zhou Gongdan asked King Cheng to organize an army to attack the state of Yin, killed Wu Genglu's father and Guan Shu, exiled Cai Shu, and granted Wu Geng Yin's remnants to Kang Shu, making him the king of Wei. He lived between the Yellow River and Qishui River, which was the ancient capital of the Shang Dynasty, Yinxu.
Zhou Gongdan was worried that Uncle Kang was young and would have difficulty maintaining his rule, so he repeatedly warned Uncle Kang: You must find talented, prestigious, and experienced people in the Yin Dynasty, and learn from them the history of the rise and fall of the Yin Dynasty, and you must care for and care for your own people.
He also warned Kang Shu that the reason for Zhou's demise was that he drank excessively, indulged in pleasure, and indulged in female sex. Therefore, the chaos in the reign of King Zhou began from here.
Zhou Gongdan also wrote "Zi Cai" in accordance with the principle that craftsmen must use rules when making woodenware, as a guideline for rulers to follow.
Therefore, it was called "Kang Gao", "Jiu Gao" and "Zicai", and was used to teach Uncle Kang.
Uncle Kang used these principles to govern the feudal country, stabilize and harmonize his people, and the people were very happy.
After King Cheng came of age, he personally took charge of the political power, appointed Uncle Kang as the Sikou of the Zhou Dynasty, and gave him many treasures and sacrificial vessels to commend Uncle Kang's virtues.
After Uncle Kang's death, his son Kang Bo became the king.
After Kang Bo's death, his son Kao Bo became the king.
After Kaobo's death, his son Sibo became the king.
After the death of Sibo, his son Boli became the king.
After Bo's death, his son Jing Bo became the king.
After the death of Jingbo, his son Zhenbo became the king.
After the death of Zhenbo, his son Qinghou was established as the king.
Because the Marquis of Qing bribed the King of Zhou Yi with generous gifts, the King of Yi ordered the King of Wei to be named Marquis.
Qinghou died in the twelfth year after he became the king, and his son Lihou became the king.
In the thirteenth year of Lihou's reign, King Li of Zhou fled to the land of Hu, and Duke Zhao and Duke of Zhou took charge of the political power together, which was named "Republican Administration".
In the twenty-eighth year of Lihou, King Xuan of Zhou was established as the emperor.
In the forty-second year, Marquis Li died, and Prince Gong Boyu became the king.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
共伯弟和有宠于厘侯，多予之赂；和以其赂赂士，以袭攻共伯于墓上，共伯入厘侯羡自杀。
卫人因葬之厘侯旁，谥曰共伯，而立和为卫侯，是为武公。
武公即位，修康叔之政，百姓和集。
四十二年，犬戎杀周幽王，武公将兵往佐周平戎，甚有功，周平王命武公为公。
五十五年，卒，子庄公扬立。
庄公五年，取齐女为夫人，好而无子。
又取陈女为夫人，生子，蚤死。
陈女女弟亦幸于庄公，而生子完。
完母死，庄公令夫人齐女子之，立为太子。
庄公有宠妾，生子州吁。
十八年，州吁长，好兵，庄公使将。
石碏谏庄公曰： 庶子好兵，使将，乱自此起。
不听。二十三年，庄公卒，太子完立，是为桓公。
桓公二年，弟州吁骄奢，桓公绌之，州吁出奔。
十三年，郑伯弟段攻其兄，不胜，亡，而州吁求与之友。
十六年，州吁收聚卫亡人以袭杀桓公，州吁自立为卫君。
为郑伯弟段欲伐郑，请宋、陈、蔡与俱，三国皆许州吁。
州吁新立，好兵，弑桓公，卫人皆不爱。
石碏乃因桓公母家于陈，详为善州吁。至郑郊，石碏与陈侯共谋，使右宰丑进食，因杀州吁于濮，而迎桓公弟晋于邢而立之，是为宣公。
宣公七年，鲁弑其君隐公。
九年，宋督弑其君殇公，及孔父。
十年，晋曲沃庄伯弑其君哀侯。
十八年，初，宣公爱夫人夷姜，夷姜生子伋í，以为太子，而令右公子傅之。
右公子为太子取齐女，未入室，而宣公见所欲为太子妇者好，说而自取之，更为太子取他女。
宣公得齐女，生子寿、子朔，令左公子傅之。
太子伋母死，宣公正夫人与朔共谗恶太子伋。
宣公自以其夺太子妻也，心恶太子，欲废之。
translation: 
Gongbo's younger brother He Zeng was favored by Marquis Li. Marquis Li gave He a lot of property. He then used these properties to bribe warriors and attacked Gongbo Yu in Lihou's cemetery. Gongbo was forced to flee to the tomb of Lihou and commit suicide.
The people of Wei buried Gongbo next to Lihou's tomb and called him Gongbo. They established He as the king of Wei, and he was named Wu Gong.
After Duke Wu came to the throne, he reorganized Uncle Kang's government affairs, and the people lived in peace and harmony.
In the 42nd year, Quan Rong killed King You of Zhou. Duke Wu personally commanded the generals to assist the Emperor of Zhou in quelling the invasion of Quan Rong and established military exploits. King Ping of Zhou ordered Duke Wu to declare himself duke.
In the fifty-fifth year, Duke Wu passed away, and his son Zhuang Gongyang became the king.
In the fifth year of Duke Zhuang's accession to the throne, he married a daughter of the State of Qi as his wife. The daughter of Qi was beautiful but childless.
Duke Zhuang then married Chen Guonv, who gave birth to a son who died in infancy.
Chen Nu's sister was also favored by Duke Zhuang and gave birth to a son named Wan.
After Wan's mother passed away, Duke Zhuang asked his wife Qi to raise Wan and made Wan the prince.
Duke Zhuang also had a beloved concubine who gave birth to a son named Zhouxu.
In the eighteenth year of Duke Zhuang, Zhouxu grew up and liked military affairs, so Duke Zhuang appointed him as a general in the army.
Shi Jue, the high minister of the Wei State, kindly came to admonish Duke Zhuang and said, "My son is fond of military affairs. Please make him a general. From now on, troubles will arise."
Duke Zhuang refused to listen. In the twenty-third year, Duke Zhuang passed away and the crown prince was established as the king. This is Duke Huan.
In the second year of Duke Huan, his younger brother Zhou Xu was arrogant and extravagant. Duke Huan deposed him and Zhou Xu fled abroad.
In the thirteenth year, Duan, Zheng Bo's younger brother, attacked his elder brother but failed to win and fled. Zhouxu asked for friendship with him.
In the 16th year, Zhouxu gathered the fugitives of Weiguo to attack and kill Duke Huan. Zhouxu himself established himself as the king of Weiguo.
Because Zheng Bo's brother Duan wanted to attack the state of Zheng, Zhouxu asked Song, Chen, and Cai to jointly support Duan, and the three countries all agreed to this request.
Zhouxu had just ascended the throne. Because he was fond of military affairs and killed Duke Huan, all the people in the Wei Dynasty hated him.
Because Duke Huan's mother lived in Chen State, Shi Que pretended to be friendly with Zhouxu. The Wei army marched to the outskirts of the capital of Zheng State. Shi Que and Chen Hou conspired and sent their right minister Chou to offer food to Zhouxu. They took the opportunity to kill Zhouxu in Pu, and brought Duke Huan's younger brother Jin back to Wei State from Xingdi and established him as king. This is Duke Xuan.
In the seventh year of Xuangong's reign, the people of Lu killed their king Yin Gong.
In the ninth year, the governor of the Song Dynasty killed his own monarch Shang Gong and his doctor Kong Fu.
In the tenth year, Zhuangbo Quwo of Jin State also killed his own king Aihou.
In the eighteenth year, Yi Jiang, the beloved wife of Duke Xuan, gave birth to a son named Ji, who was made the crown prince. Xuan Gong sent You Gongzi to teach him.
The right prince married a beautiful girl from Qi for the prince. The beauty was not married to Ji Baitang, but she was seen by Duke Xuan. Seeing the beauty of the girl from Qi, Duke Xuan liked her very much, so he married her himself and married another girl for the prince.
After Duke Xuan got the daughter of Qi, the daughter of Qi gave birth to sons Zishou and Zishuo. Duke Xuan sent Mr. Zuo to teach them.
After the death of Prince Ji's mother, Mrs. Xuan Gong and Zi Shuo jointly slandered and framed Prince Ji in front of Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan originally hated the prince because he had snatched his wife, and he had long wanted to destroy him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
及闻其恶，大怒，乃使太子伋于齐而令盗遮界上杀之。
与太子白旄，而告界盗见持白旄者杀之。
且行，子朔之兄寿，太子异母弟也，知朔之恶太子而君欲杀之，乃谓太子曰： 界盗见太子白旄，即杀太子，太子可毋行。
太子曰： 逆父命求生，不可。
遂行。
寿见太子不止，乃盗其白旄而先驰至界。
界盗见其验，即杀之。
寿已死，而太子伋又至，谓盗曰： 所当杀乃我也。
盗并杀太子伋，以报宣公。
宣公乃以子朔为太子。
十九年，宣公卒，太子朔立，是为惠公。
左右公子不平朔之立也，惠公四年，左右公子怨惠公之谗杀前太子伋而代立，乃作乱，攻惠公，立太子伋之弟黔牟为君，惠公奔齐。
卫君黔牟立八年，齐襄公率诸侯奉王命共伐卫，纳卫惠公，诛左右公子。
卫君黔牟奔于周，惠公复立。
惠公立三年出亡，亡八年复入，与前通年凡十三年矣。
二十五年，惠公怨周之容舍黔牟，与燕伐周。
周惠王奔温，卫、燕立惠王弟颓为王。
二十九年，郑复纳惠王。
三十一年，惠公卒，子懿公赤立。
懿公即位，好鹤，淫乐奢侈。
九年，翟伐卫，卫懿公欲发兵，兵或畔。
大臣言曰： 君好鹤，鹤可令击翟。
翟于是遂入，杀懿公。
懿公之立也，百姓大臣皆不服。
自懿公父惠公朔之谗杀太子伋代立至于懿公，常欲败之，卒灭惠公之后而更立黔牟之弟昭伯顽之子申为君，是为戴公。
戴公申元年卒。
translation: 
When he heard the bad things about the prince, he was so angry that he sent the prince Ji as an envoy to Qi and secretly ordered the thieves to intercept and kill Ji on the border.
Duke Xuan sent an envoy to Prince Bai Ya and warned the thieves on the border to kill the person holding Bai Ya's envoy as soon as they saw him.
Prince Ji was about to leave for the Kingdom of Qi. Zi Shuo's brother Zi Shou, the prince's half-brother, knew that Zi Shuo hated the prince and the king wanted to get rid of the prince, so he said to the prince: The thieves on the border will kill you as soon as they see you holding the Baiji envoy, prince. Prince, please don't go!
The prince said: It is absolutely not okay to go against the orders of your fathers to protect yourself.
So he went to Qi without hesitation.
Seeing that the prince did not listen to the advice, Zi Shou had no choice but to steal his Bai Ya envoy and drive to the border before the prince.
Seeing that the previous agreement had come true, the thief killed him.
After Zishou was killed, Prince Ji arrived again and said to the thief, "I am the one who should be killed!"
The thief then killed Prince Ji and repaid Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan made Zi Shuo the crown prince.
In the 19th year, Duke Xuan died, and Prince Shuo became the king. This was Duke Hui.
The two young masters on the left and right were indignant at Zi Shuo being established as king. In the fourth year of Duke Hui, the left and right sons resented Duke Hui for slandering and murdering Prince Ji and establishing himself on his own. They launched a riot, attacked Duke Hui, and appointed Prince Ji's younger brother Qian Mou as king. Duke Hui fled to Qi.
In the eighth year of the reign of King Qianmou of Wei, Duke Xiang of Qi was ordered by the Emperor of Zhou to lead all the vassal states to jointly attack the Kingdom of Wei. He sent Duke Hui of Wei back to his country and killed the left and right young masters.
Wei Jun Qian Mou fled to Zhou Dynasty, and Duke Hui ascended the throne again.
Duke Hui fled three years after he was first established as king, and returned to defend his country eight years later, for a total of thirteen years.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Hui was dissatisfied with Zhou's acceptance and resettlement of Qian Mou, and he joined forces with Yan to attack Zhou.
King Hui of Zhou fled to Wen, and Wei and Yan jointly established King Hui's younger brother as king.
In the twenty-ninth year, Zheng Guo escorted King Hui back to Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Hui of Wei passed away, and his son Yigong Chi became the king.
After Duke Yi ascended the throne, he liked to raise cranes and spend money on sexual pleasures.
In the ninth year, Zhai attacked Wei Guo. Wei Yigong led his army to resist, but some soldiers betrayed him.
The ministers said: If the king likes cranes, then send cranes to fight against the Zhai people!
So the Zhai people invaded the Wei State and killed Duke Yigong.
Yigong was the king, and the people and ministers were all dissatisfied.
From the time when Hui Gong Shuo, the father of Duke Hui, attacked and murdered the prince Ji and established himself as the king until Duke Yi, the people and ministers often wanted to overthrow them. Finally, they finally destroyed the descendants of Duke Hui and made Shen, the son of Qian Mou's younger brother Zhao Bowan, the king. He was Duke Dai of Wei.
Dai Gongshen died in the first year of his reign.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
齐桓公以卫数乱，乃率诸侯伐翟，为卫筑楚丘，立戴公弟燬为卫君，是为文公。
文公以乱故奔齐，齐人入之。
初，翟杀懿公也，卫人怜之，思复立宣公前死太子伋之后，伋子又死，而代伋死者子寿又无子。
太子伋同母弟二人：其一曰黔牟，黔牟尝代惠公为君，八年复去；其二曰昭伯。
昭伯、黔牟皆已前死，故立昭伯子申为戴公。戴公卒，复立其弟燬为文公。
文公初立，轻赋平罪，身自劳，与百姓同苦，以收卫民。
十六年，晋公子重耳过，无礼。
十七年，齐桓公卒。
二十五年，文公卒，子成公郑立。
成公三年，晋欲假道于卫救宋，成公不许。
晋更从南河度，救宋。
征师于卫，卫大夫欲许，成公不肯。
大夫元咺攻成公，成公出奔。
晋文公重耳伐卫，分其地予宋，讨前过无礼及不救宋患也。卫成公遂出奔陈。
二岁，如周求入，与晋文公会。
晋使人鸩卫成公，成公私于周主鸩，令薄，得不死。
已而周为请晋文公，卒入之卫，而诛元咺，卫君瑕出奔。
七年，晋文公卒。
十二年，成公朝晋襄公。
十四年，秦穆公卒。
二十六年，齐邴歜ù弑其君懿公。
三十五年，成公卒，子穆公遬ù立。
穆公二年，楚庄王伐陈，杀夏征舒。
三年，楚庄王围郑，郑降，复释之。
十一年，孙良夫救鲁伐齐，复得侵地。
穆公卒，子定公臧立。
定公十二年卒，子献公衎立。
献公十三年，公令师曹教宫妾鼓琴，妾不善，曹笞之。
妾以幸恶曹于公，公亦笞曹三百。
translation: 
Duke Huan of Qi led the princes to attack Zhai because of the many turmoils in the Wei State. He built a castle in Chuqiu for the Wei State.
Duke Wen fled to Qi due to the turmoil in the Wei Dynasty, and the people of Qi sent him back home.
At first, when the people of Zhai killed Duke Yi, the people of Wei took pity on him and wanted to raise another descendant of the prince Ji who was murdered by Duke Xuan. However, Ji's son had died, and Zishou, who died in Ji's place, had no children.
Prince Ji had two brothers of the same mother: one was named Qian Mou. Qian Mou had been the king of Wei for eight years in place of Duke Hui, and was later driven out of Wei by Duke Hui. The other was named Zhao Bo.
Both Zhaobo and Qian Mou had died long ago, so the Wei people made Zhaobo's son Shen the Duke of Dai. After the death of Duke Dai, the Wei people made his younger brother Rui the Duke Wen.
When Duke Wen came to the throne, he reduced the people's taxes, clearly judged the crimes of prisoners, worked hard, and shared the joys and sorrows with the people, thus winning the hearts of the people.
In the sixteenth year, Jin Gongzi Chong'er passed by Weiguo. Duke Wen did not treat Chong'er politely.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Wen died, and his son Cheng Gong Zheng became the king.
In the third year of Chenggong's reign, Jin wanted to borrow a road from Wei in order to save Song Dynasty, but Chenggong refused.
Jin then changed its route and crossed the Nanhe River to rescue Song.
The Jin State conscripted troops from Wei. Doctor Wei wanted to agree, but Duke Cheng refused.
The official Yuan Yao attacked Duke Cheng, who fled to the state of Chu.
In order to avenge Duke Wen's rudeness when he passed by Wei State and Wei's failure to rescue Song State, Jin Wengong Chong'er attacked Wei State and gave part of Wei State's land to Song State. Duke Cheng of Wei had to flee to Chen.
Two years later, Duke Cheng went to Emperor Zhou to ask for help in returning to his country and met Duke Wen of Jin.
Jin sent people to kill Chenggong with poisoned wine. Chenggong bribed the person in charge of the poisoning in the Zhou royal family to let him use less poison, so that he could avoid death.
Soon, the King of Zhou petitioned Duke Wen of Jin on behalf of Duke Cheng. Duke Cheng was finally sent back to Wei, where he killed Yuan Yao and Wei Jun fled.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the twelfth year, Duke Cheng went to see Duke Xiang of Jin.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the twenty-sixth year, Qi Bingzha killed his king Yigong.
In the thirty-fifth year, Duke Cheng passed away, and his son Mu Gongtian became the king.
In the second year of Duke Mu's reign, King Zhuang of Chu attacked Chen and killed Xia Zhengshu.
Three years later, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the state of Zheng, and the Marquis of Zheng surrendered.
King Zhuang of Chu released him again. In the eleventh year, Sun Liangfu crusaded against Qi to rescue Lu and regained the invaded territory.
After the death of Duke Mu, his son Ding Gong Zang was established as the king.
In the twelfth year of the reign of Duke Dinggong, he passed away, and his son Xian Gong became the king.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Xian asked the musician Cao Cao to teach his concubine to play the piano. The concubine played poorly, so Cao Fei beat her as punishment.
Because the concubine Xian Gong favored him, she spoke ill of Cao in front of him and deliberately slandered Cao. Gong Xian also whipped Cao three hundred times.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十八年，献公戒孙文子、宁惠子食，皆往。
日旰不召，而去射鸿于囿。
二子从之，公不释射服与之言。二子怒，如宿。
孙文子子数侍公饮，使师曹歌《巧言》之卒章。
师曹又怒公之尝笞三百，乃歌之，欲以怒孙文子，报卫献公。
文子语蘧伯玉，伯玉曰： 臣不知也。
遂攻出献公。
献公奔齐，齐置卫献公于聚邑。
孙文子、宁惠子共立定公弟秋为卫君，是为殇公。
殇公秋立，封孙文子林父于宿。
十二年，宁喜与孙林父争宠相恶，殇公使宁喜攻孙林父。
林父奔晋，复求入故卫献公。
献公在齐，齐景公闻之，与卫献公如晋求入。
晋为伐卫，诱与盟。
卫殇公会晋平公，平公执殇公与宁喜而复入卫献公。
献公亡在外十二年而入。
献公后元年，诛宁喜。
三年，吴延陵季子使过卫，见蘧伯玉、史鳅，曰： 卫多君子，其国无故。
过宿，孙林父为击磬，曰： 不乐，音大悲，使卫乱乃此矣。
是年，献公卒，子襄公恶立。
襄公六年，楚灵王会诸侯，襄公称病不往。
九年，襄公卒。
初，襄公有贱妾，幸之，有身，梦有人谓曰： 我康叔也，令若子必有卫，名而子曰 元 。
妾怪之，问孔成子。
成子曰： 康叔者，卫祖也。
及生子，男也，以告襄公。
襄公曰： 天所置也。
名之曰元。襄公夫人无子，于是乃立元为嗣，是为灵公。
灵公五年，朝晋昭公。
六年，楚公子弃疾弑灵王自立，为平王。
十一年，火。
三十八年，孔子来，禄之如鲁。
后有隙，孔子去。
后复来。
translation: 
In the eighteenth year, an announcement was made to invite Sun Wenzi and Ning Huizi to a banquet, and they went as scheduled to wait.
It was getting late, and before Xian Gong went to summon them, he went to the garden to shoot wild geese.
The two of them had no choice but to follow Duke Xian to the garden. Duke Xian talked to them before he took off his clothes. They were very angry at his rude behavior and went to Suyi.
Sun Wenzi's son accompanied Duke Xian to drink many times, and Duke Xian asked the musician Cao to sing the last chapter of "Qiaoyan" in "·Xiaoya".
The musician Cao originally hated Duke Xiang for beating him three hundred times before, so he sang this poem, hoping to anger Sun Wenzi and take revenge on Duke Xiang of Wei.
Wenzi told Dr. Wei Zang Boyu about this, and Zang Boyu said: "I don't know."
So Sun Wenzi drove away Duke Xian.
Duke Xian fled to the state of Qi, and the state of Qi settled him in Juyi.
Sun Wenzi and Ning Huizi jointly appointed their younger brother Qiu as the king of Wei. This was Duke Shang.
After Shang Gongqiu came to the throne, he granted Sufeng to Sun Wenzi Lin's father.
In the 12th year, Ning happy and Sun Lin's father came to attack each other due to competition for favor. Duke Shang asked Ning happy to attack Sun Lin's father.
Lin's father fled to the state of Jin and asked the state of Jin to escort Duke Xian back to his country.
At that time, Duke Xian was in the state of Qi. When Duke Jin of Qi heard the news, he and Duke Xiang of Wei went to Jin to ask for help in returning to Wei.
Jin then went to attack Wei and induced Wei to form an alliance with Jin.
Duke Shang of Wei went to meet Duke Ping of Jin. Duke Ping arrested Duke Shang and Ning happy, and then sent Duke Xian of Wei back to his country.
Duke Xian fled for twelve years and returned to his homeland.
In the first year of the reign of Emperor Xiangong, Ning happy was executed.
In the third year, Ji Zi of Yanling of the State of Wu was on an envoy and passed by the State of Wei. When he saw Zang Boyu and Shi Xi, he said: There are many gentlemen in the State of Wei, so this country will not be in trouble.
He passed by his place of residence again, and Sun Lin's father played the chime for him and said: "I am not happy, the music is very sad, this is where the Weiguo is in turmoil!"
In the same year, Duke Xiang passed away, and his son Xiang Gong was appointed king.
In the sixth year of Duke Xiang, King Ling of Chu met with various princes. Duke Xiang excused himself from going to the meeting because he was ill.
In the ninth year, Duke Xiang passed away.
At the beginning, Duke Xiang had a concubine who was very favored. After she became pregnant, she dreamed that someone said to her: I am Uncle Kang. I will let your son enjoy the title of Weiguo. Your son should be named Yuan.
When I woke up, I was very surprised and asked Kong Chengzi.
Chengzi said: Uncle Kang is the founder of Weiguo.
When my concubine gave birth to a child, and it turned out to be a boy, she told Duke Xiang about the dream.
Duke Xiang said: This is arranged by God!
So they named the boy Yuan. It happened that Mrs. Xiang Gong had not given birth to a son, so she named Yuan his legitimate son. This was Duke Lin.
In the fifth year, Duke Linggong met with Duke Zhao of Jin.
In the sixth year, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling and established himself as king of the country, calling him King Ping.
In the eleventh year, a fire broke out in Wei.
In the thirty-eighth year, Confucius came to the state of Wei, and the state of Wei gave him the same salary as when he was in the state of Lu.
Later, Confucius had a conflict with the king of Wei and left.
Soon, he traveled to Weiguo again.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
三十九年，太子蒯聩与灵公夫人南子有恶，欲杀南子。
蒯聩与其徒戏阳遬谋，朝，使杀夫人。
戏阳后悔，不果。
蒯聩数目之，夫人觉之，惧，呼曰： 太子欲杀我！
灵公怒，太子蒯聩奔宋，已而之晋赵氏。
四十二年春，灵公游于郊，令子郢仆。
郢，灵公少子也，字子南。
灵公怨太子出奔，谓郢曰： 我将立若为后。
郢对曰： 郢不足以辱社稷，君更图之。
夏，灵公卒，夫人命子郢为太子，曰： 此灵公命也。
郢曰： 亡人太子蒯聩之子辄在也，不敢当。
于是卫乃以辄为君，是为出公。
六月乙酉，赵简子欲入蒯聩，乃令阳虎许命卫十余人衰绖归，简子送蒯聩。
卫人闻之，发兵击蒯聩。
蒯聩不得入，入宿而保，卫人亦罢兵。
出公辄四年，齐田乞弑其君孺子。
八年，齐鲍子弑其君悼公。
孔子自陈入卫。
九年，孔文子问兵于仲尼，仲尼不对。
其后鲁迎仲尼，仲尼反鲁。
十二年，初，孔圉文子取太子蒯聩之姊，生悝。
孔氏之竖浑良夫美好，孔文子卒，良夫通于悝母。
太子在宿，悝母使良夫于太子。
太子与良夫言曰： 苟能入我国，报子以乘轩，免子三死，毋所与。
与之盟，许以悝母为妻。
闰月，良夫与太子入，舍孔氏之外圃。
昏，二人蒙衣而乘，宦者罗御，如孔氏。
孔氏之老栾宁问之，称姻妾以告。遂入，适伯姬氏。
既食，悝母杖戈而先，太子与五人介，舆豭从之。
伯姬劫悝于厕，强盟之，遂劫以登台。
栾宁将饮酒，炙未熟，闻乱，使告仲由。
translation: 
In the thirty-ninth year, Prince Kuai Chi had a grudge against Nan Zi, the wife of Duke Lin, and wanted to kill Nan Zi.
Kuai Chi discussed with his retainer Xi Yangtian and asked Xi Yangtian to kill his wife during the court meeting.
When things came to a close, Xiyang regretted not taking action.
Kuai Kui winked at him several times, but when his wife noticed it, she was very frightened and shouted: "The prince wants to kill me!"
Duke Linggong was furious, and the prince Kuai Chi fled to the Song Dynasty, and soon fled to the Zhao family of the Jin Dynasty.
In the spring of the forty-second year, Linggong went on an outing and asked Ziying to drive.
Ying is the youngest son of Linggong, whose courtesy name is Zinan.
Duke Ling resented the prince for fleeing, so he said to Ying: "I will make you the prince."
Ying replied: Ying is not qualified enough to humiliate the country. You can think of other ways!
In the summer, Duke Linggong passed away. His wife made Zi Ying the crown prince and said, "This is Duke Linggong's order!"
Ying replied: "The son of the fugitive prince Kuai Chi is here, so I dare not take on this important task."
So the people of Wei established themselves as kings, which was called becoming a duke.
On the day of Yiyou in June, Zhao Jianzi wanted to send Kuai Kai back to his country, so he asked Yang Hu to send more than ten people to dress up as people from the Wei State and wear mourning clothes, pretending to come from the Wei State to the Jin State to greet the prince. Jianzi saw Kuai Kai off.
When the guards heard the news, they organized an army to attack Kuai Kui.
Kuai Chi could not return to the defense, so he had to run to his base to defend himself, and the defenders also stopped attacking.
Four years after leaving public life, Qi Tianqi killed his own king, the son.
In the eighth year, Qi Baozi killed his own monarch, Duke Ai.
Confucius came from the state of Chen to the state of Wei.
In the ninth year, Kong Wenzi asked Kong Zhongni for military advice, but Zhongni refused to answer.
Afterwards, the Marquis of Lu sent people to welcome Zhongni, and Zhongni returned to the state of Lu.
At the beginning of the twelfth year, Kong Yu Wenzi married the sister of the crown prince Kuai Chi and gave birth to her.
Kong Wenzi's servant Hun Liangfu was handsome and handsome. After Kong Wenzi's death, Hun Liangfu had an affair with Kui's mother.
When the prince was staying, his mother asked Hun Liangfu to go to the prince's place.
The prince said to the good husband: If you can help me return to my country, I will repay you by giving you a carriage for the doctor to ride in, and I will also forgive you three capital crimes.
Wearing purple clothes, bare fur clothes, and carrying a sword are not among the capital crimes.
The two made a covenant, and the prince also allowed his mother to be the wife of a good husband. In the leap twelfth month, Liangfu and the prince returned to the capital and temporarily stayed in Kong's outer garden.
In the evening, two people dressed in women's clothes and with scarves on their heads came in a car, driven by the eunuch Luo.
Luan Ning, the retainer of the Kong family, interrogated them about their names. They claimed to be concubines from their in-laws' family, so they successfully entered the Kong family's house and went straight to Boji's residence.
After dinner, Kui's mother went to Kong Kui's residence first, holding a gun. The prince and five others, wearing armor and carrying a boar, followed behind.
Bo Ji forced Kui into a corner, forced him to form an alliance, and hijacked Kui onto the stage, forcing him to summon his ministers.
Luan Ning was about to drink, but before the barbecue was cooked, she heard a messy noise and sent someone to tell Zhong Yu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
召护驾乘车，行爵食炙，奉出公辄奔鲁。
仲由将入，遇子羔将出，曰： 门已闭矣。
子路曰： 吾姑至矣。
子羔曰： 不及，莫践其难。
子路曰： 食焉不辟其难。
子羔遂出。
子路入，及门，公孙敢阖门，曰： 毋入为也！
子路曰： 是公孙也？
求利而逃其难。
由不然，利其禄，必救其患。
有使者出，子路乃得入。
曰： 太子焉用孔悝？
虽杀之，必或继之。
且曰： 太子无勇。若燔台，必舍孔叔。
太子闻之，惧，下石乞、盂黡敌子路，以戈击之，割缨。
子路曰： 君子死，冠不免。
结缨而死。
孔子闻卫乱，曰： 嗟乎！
柴也其来乎？
由也其死矣。
孔悝竟立太子蒯聩，是为庄公。
庄公蒯聩者，出公父也，居外，怨大夫莫迎立。
元年即位，欲尽诛大臣，曰： 寡人居外久矣，子亦尝闻之乎？
群臣欲作乱，乃止。
二年，鲁孔丘卒。
三年，庄公上城，见戎州，曰： 戎虏何为是？
戎州病之。
十月，戎州告赵简子，简子围卫。
十一月，庄公出奔，卫人立公子斑师为卫君。
齐伐卫，虏斑师，更立公子起为卫君。
卫君起元年，卫石曼尃逐其君起，起奔齐。
卫出公辄自齐复归立。
初，出公立十二年亡，亡在外四年复入。
出公后元年，赏从亡者。
立二十一年卒，出公季父黔攻出公子而自立，是为悼公。
悼公五年卒，子敬公弗立。
敬公十九年卒，子昭公纠立。
是时三晋强，卫如小侯，属之。
translation: 
The escort drove him in a car, drank wine and ate barbecue, and escorted him when he was on duty and fled to the state of Lu.
Zhong You arrived after hearing the news and was about to enter Kong's house, where he met Zi Gao who had just escaped from Kong's house. Zigao said: The door is closed.
Zilu said: I will go and have a look for now.
Zigao said: It's too late, don't follow Kui and suffer.
Zilu said: If you enjoy your meager salary, you cannot watch him suffer without saving him.
So Zigao ran away.
Zilu was about to go in, and when he came to the door, Gongsun dared to close the door tightly and said, "Don't go in again!"
Zilu said: You must be Gongsun!
Taking other people's profits and avoiding other people's dangers.
I can't do this. Enjoying other people's salaries will definitely save them from danger.
At this time, a messenger came out, and Zilu took the opportunity to go in.
Zilu said: How can the prince need Kong Kui as his helper?
Even if he is killed, someone must take his place and attack the prince.
He also said: The prince lacks courage. If he sets fire to the stage, he will definitely release Uncle Kong.
When the prince heard this, he was very frightened and asked Shi Qi and Yu Xiao to step down and block Zi Lu. They struck Zi Lu with their swords and cut off Zi Lu's hat tassel.
Zilu said: When a gentleman dies, his hat cannot fall to the ground.
With that said, he fastened his hat and tassel and died.
After hearing the news of the turmoil in Weiguo, Confucius said: Alas!
Chai will come back, right?
But you, died.
Kong Kui finally made Prince Kuai Chi the king of the country. This was Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang's father, Kuai Chi, was in exile. When he was on the run, he resented the officials for not welcoming him as king.
After he came to the throne in the first year, Duke Zhuang wanted to kill all his ministers, saying: "I have been away for a long time, have you heard about it?"
The ministers wanted to cause trouble, so Duke Zhuang had to give up.
In the second year, Confucius of Lu State passed away.
In the third year, Duke Zhuang climbed up the city wall and saw Rongzhou. Said: Why did the soldiers build cities?
The people of Rongzhou were very worried about his words.
In October, the people of Rongzhou told Zhao Jianzi that Jianzi was besieging Weiguo.
In the eleventh month, Duke Zhuang fled, and the guards made Prince Banshi their king.
The state of Qi attacked the state of Wei, captured Master Ban, and made the young master the king.
In the first year of Wei Junqi's reign, Wei Shimangui drove Qi away and fled to Qi State.
When Wei was on duty, he returned from Qi to Wei and became the king.
At first, he fled after being away for twelve years and had to return after being away for four years.
In the first year of his reign, he rewarded those who fled with him.
After he had been in power for twenty-one years and died, Chugong's uncle Qian drove out Chugong's son and established himself as the king of the country. This is Duke Mourning.
In the fifth year of mourning for the Duke, he passed away, and his son Jing Gongfu became the king.
In the 19th year, Duke Jing passed away, and his son Zhao Gongjiu became the king.
At this time, the Three Jin Dynasties became stronger and stronger, and Weijun was like a small prince, attached to the State of Zhao.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昭公六年，公子亹ě弑之代立，是为怀公。
怀公十一年，公子颓弑怀公而代立，是为慎公。
慎公父，公子适；适父，敬公也。
慎公四十二年卒，子声公训立。
声公十一年卒，子成侯遬立。
成侯十一年，公孙鞅入秦。
十六年，卫更贬号曰侯。
二十九年，成侯卒，子平侯立。
平侯八年卒，子嗣君立。
嗣君五年，更贬号曰君，独有濮阳。
四十二年卒，子怀君立。
怀君三十一年，朝魏，魏囚杀怀君。
魏更立嗣君弟，是为元君。
元君为魏婿，故魏立之。
元君十四年，秦拔魏东地，秦初置东郡，更徙卫野王县，而并濮阳为东郡。
二十五年，元君卒，子君角立。
君角九年，秦并天下，立为始皇帝。
二十一年，二世废君角为庶人，卫绝祀。
太史公曰：余读世家言，至于宣公之太子以妇见诛，弟寿争死以相让，此与晋太子申生不敢明骊姬之过同，俱恶伤父之志。
然卒死亡，何其悲也！
或父子相杀，兄弟相灭，亦独何哉？
translation: 
In the sixth year of Zhaogong's reign, Prince Qi killed Duke Zhao and established himself as king. This was Duke Huai.
In the eleventh year of Duke Huai's reign, the prince killed Duke Huai and established himself as king. This was Duke Shen.
Duke Shen's father was Gongzi Shi. The suitable father is Mr. Jing.
In the forty-second year, Duke Shen passed away, and his son declared himself the king of the country.
In the eleventh year, Duke Sheng died, and his son Chenghou Tianli became the king.
In the eleventh year of Chenghou's reign, Gongsun Yang entered Qin.
In the sixteenth year, Wei was demoted to Hou.
In the twenty-ninth year, Chenghou passed away, and his son Pinghou became the king.
Pinghou died in the eighth year, and his son Heijun became the king.
In the fifth year of his reign, the successor was demoted to the title of "Jun", and he only had the title of "Puyang".
In the forty-second year, the heir passed away, and his son Huaijun became the king.
In the thirty-first year, Huaijun paid homage to Wei, and Wei imprisoned and killed Huaijun.
Wei changed and established a successor, Jun's younger brother, who was Yuan Jun.
Yuan Jun was the son-in-law of Wei State, so Wei State established him.
In the fourteenth year of Yuanjun, Qin captured the eastern territory of Wei, and Qin began to set up Dongjun in this area. He also moved Weijun to Yewang County and merged Puyang into Dongjun.
In the twenty-fifth year, Yuanjun passed away, and his son Junjiao became the king.
In the ninth year of Junjiao, Qin annexed the world and Ying Zheng was established as the first emperor.
In the twenty-first year of the Qin Dynasty, the second emperor of Qin deposed Weijun, Junjiao became an ordinary commoner, and the Weiguo lineage was completely cut off.
Tai Shigong said: I read the records of the family and read that the crown prince of Duke Xuan of Wei was killed because of his wife. His younger brother Zishou and the crown prince gave in to each other and fought to die. This is the same as the prince Shen Sheng of Jin who did not dare to declare Li Ji's fault because he was afraid of hurting his father's feelings.
However, it is so sad to finally die!
Some fathers and sons kill each other, and some brothers destroy each other. Why is this?


