Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 4, 7, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元皇帝，宣帝太子也。
母曰共哀许皇后，宣帝微时生民间。
年二岁，宣帝即位。
八岁，立为太子。
壮大，柔仁好儒。
见宣帝所用多文法吏，以刑名绳下，大臣杨恽、盖宽饶等坐刺讥辞语为罪而诛，尝侍燕从容言： 陛下持刑太深，宜用儒生。
宣帝作色曰： 汉家自有制度，本以霸王道杂之，奈何纯任德教，用周政乎！
且俗儒不达时宜，好是古非今，使人眩于名实，不知所守，何足委任？
乃叹曰： 乱我家者，太子也！
由是疏太子而爱淮阳王，曰： 淮阳王明察好法，宜为吾子。
而王母张婕妤尤幸。
上有意欲用淮阳王代太子，然以少依许氏，俱从微起，故终不背焉。
黄龙元年十二月，宣帝崩。
癸巳，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
尊皇太后曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
初元元年春正月辛丑，孝宣皇帝葬杜陵。
赐诸侯王、公主、列侯黄金，吏二千石以下钱、帛，各有差。
大赦天下。
三月，封皇太后兄侍中中郎将王舜为安平侯。
丙午，立皇后王氏。
以三辅、太常、郡国公田及苑可省者振业贫民，訾不满千钱者赋贷种、食。
封外祖父平恩戴侯同产弟子中常侍许嘉为平恩侯，奉戴侯后。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕承先帝之圣绪，获奉宗宙，战战兢兢。
间者地数动而未静，惧于天地之戒，不知所由。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty was the prince of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty.
My mother was Queen Gongai Xu, who was born among the people when Emperor Xuan was humble.
When he was two years old, Emperor Xuan succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Yuan was eight years old, he was made a prince.
As an adult, he is generous and respectful of Confucianism.
Seeing that most of the officials employed by Emperor Xuan were legal officials, they respected the emperor and humbled his ministers in order to rule the world with their names and deeds. Ministers Yang Yun, Gai Kuorao, etc. were all executed for the crime of ridiculing the emperor. They often said calmly when serving in peacetime: Your Majesty's punishment is too deep, and Confucian scholars should be used.
Emperor Xuan got angry and said: The Han family has its own system, which alternates between kings and hegemons. Why should they specialize in benevolent government and imitate the Zhou Dynasty?
Moreover, ordinary Confucian scholars are unable to combine what they have learned with practice, preferring to attach importance to the past and disregard the present, which confuses people with their names and reality, and they do not know what to do. How can they be entrusted with important responsibilities?
So he sighed: The one who disrupts my Liu family's order will be the prince!
Therefore, he neglected the prince and loved Huaiyang. Emperor Xuan said: The King of Huaiyang is good at making judgments and loves to study law. He should inherit my career.
Zhang Jieyu, the mother of King Huaiyang, was even more favored.
Emperor Xuan intended to replace the prince with King Huaiyang, but because he relied on the Xu family when he was a humble boy, the couple had a bad sworn relationship, so in the end he refused to abandon Queen Xu and establish another prince.
In December of the first year of Huanglong, Emperor Xuan died.
On the 26th, the prince succeeded to the throne and went to the Gaomiao to offer sacrifices.
The empress dowager is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress is the empress dowager.
On the fourth day of the first month of spring in the first year of the Chu Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was buried in Duling.
The princes, princesses, and princes were rewarded with gold, and the officials were rewarded with cash and silk of less than two thousand dan, each with their own differences.
Amnesty to the world.
In March, the Empress Dowager's brother, Zhonglang General Wang Shun, was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the queen was named Wang.
Those who could borrow the land in Sanfu, Taichang, prefectures and royal gardens were lent to the poor for farming, and those whose family property was less than a thousand yuan were lent seeds and grain.
Among the sons of his maternal grandfather, Ping'en Daihou, the son of Xu Jia, who often served as a servant, was given the title of Ping'enhou, so that he would be the queen of Daihou.
In April of Xia, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited the sacred cause of the late emperor, and I can serve the ancestral temple with caution.
There have been several earthquakes in recent times, and we are alarmed by God's warning, but we don't know the cause.
summary:
Emperor Yuan of Han, son of Emperor Xuan, was made prince at age eight. He was generous and respected Confucianism, often criticizing his father's reliance on legal officials and harsh punishments. Emperor Xuan warned that Confucian scholars would disrupt the Han dynasty's system, which blended kingly and hegemonic rule. Though Emperor Xuan favored another son, he ultimately kept Emperor Yuan as heir due to loyalty to his mother.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
省刑罚七十余事。除光禄大夫以下至郎中保父母同产之令。
令从官给事宫司马中者，得为大父母、父母、兄弟通籍。
冬十二月丁未，御史大夫贡禹卒。
卫司马谷吉使匈奴，不还。
永光元年春正月，行幸甘泉，效泰畤。赦云阳徒。
赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，高年帛。
行所过毋出租赋。
二月，诏丞相、御史举质朴敦厚逊让有行者，光禄岁以此科第郎、从宫。
三月，诏曰： 五帝、三王任贤使能，以登至平，而今不治者，岂斯民异哉？
咎在朕之不明，亡以知贤也。
是故壬人在位，而吉士雍蔽。
重以周、秦之弊，民渐薄俗，去礼义，触刑法，岂不哀哉！
由此观之，元元何辜？
其赦天下，令厉精自新，各务农亩。
无田者皆假之，贷种、食如贫民。
赐吏六百石以上爵五大夫，勤事吏二级，民一级，女子百户牛、酒，鳏、寡、孤、独、高年帛。
是月雨雪，陨霜伤麦稼，秋罢。
二年春二月，诏曰： 盖闻唐、虞象刑而民不犯，殷周法行而奸轨服。
今朕获承高祖之洪业，托位公侯之上，夙夜战栗，永惟百姓之急，未尝有忘焉。
然而阴阳未调，三光晻昧。元元大困，流散道路，盗贼并兴。
有司又长残贼，失牧民之术。
是皆朕之不明，政有所亏。
咎至于此，朕甚自耻。
为民父母，若是之薄，谓百姓何？
其大赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，鳏、寡、孤、独、高年、三老、孝弟、力田帛。
又赐诸侯王、公主、列侯黄金，中二千石以下至中都官长吏各有差，吏六百石以上爵五大夫，勤事吏各二级。
translation: 
More than 70 sentences were reduced, and the law that all parents and brothers from Dr. Guanglu to the doctor should be sentenced to prison together if one of them committed a crime.
Those who order the emperor's daily attendants to serve outside the palace should clearly fill in the ages, names, and physical characteristics of their grandparents, parents, and brothers.
On the ninth day of the eleventh month in winter, the imperial censor Gong Yu passed away.
Wei Sima Guji went on an envoy to the Huns and disappeared.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Yongguang, he came to Ganquan, offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs, and pardoned the prisoners in Yunyang.
The subjects will be rewarded with a rank of nobility and a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women.
In the old year, he was given silk, and there was no rental tax wherever the royal driver passed by.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to the prime minister and censor to recommend people who were simple, honest, humble, and highly virtuous. According to this content, Guanglu would take exams every year to determine his grade as a school doctor and an official.
In March, an edict was issued saying: The five emperors and three kings appointed talents and envoys to rule the world. But today the country is in chaos. Could it be that the people are different?
The problem lies in my ignorance and inability to identify talents.
Therefore, when the sycophant is in power, the wise man will be blocked and excluded.
Especially since the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, the social atmosphere has deteriorated, causing some people to abandon etiquette and justice and violate the criminal law. It is really sad!
From this point of view, what is the crime of the people?
Now the world is being pardoned, and the offenders are asked to work hard to rehabilitate themselves and engage in agricultural production.
Those without land borrowed public land and lent seeds and grains like ordinary poor people.
Officials who are rewarded with more than 600 stones are given the rank of fifth doctor, officials who are diligent in political affairs are given the second rank, and common people who inherit their fathers are given the first rank. Women will be given a certain amount of cattle and wine to a hundred households, and a certain amount of silk will be given to a widower, a widower and a senior citizen.
It rained and snowed this month, and severe frosts damaged the wheat crops, resulting in no harvest in the autumn.
In the spring and February of the second year, an edict was issued saying: I have heard that Tang and Yu used symbolic punishments but the people did not break the law, and that the laws of the Shang and Zhou dynasties were implemented and the traitors were frightened into submission.
Today, I can inherit the great achievements of our great ancestors and hold a high position above the ministers. I work in fear day and night. I have long been concerned about the suffering of the people and have never forgotten it.
However, the yin and yang are not adjusted, the sun and the moon are dim, the people are miserable and homeless, and thieves are on the rise.
The competent agencies also encouraged the thieves and failed to take effective measures to govern the people.
This is all due to my ignorance and my inability to govern the country.
This is my fault, and I feel deeply guilty.
If you are the parents of the common people, but you are so ungrateful, how can you care for the common people!
A general amnesty should be granted to the whole world, and rewards should be given to the first level of civil nobility, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widows, widowers, senior citizens, three elders, and filial brothers.
He also rewarded the princes, princesses, and princes with gold, with gold ranging from less than two thousand dan to officials in the central capital on a mission basis. Officials with more than 600 shi will be rewarded with five ranks of nobles, and officials who are diligent in political affairs will be rewarded with two ranks.
summary:
Upon ascending the throne in 48 BCE, Emperor Yuan honored his mother and wife as empresses, granted amnesty, and distributed rewards. He issued edicts addressing natural disasters, earthquakes, and famines, ordering relief efforts, tax exemptions, and land grants to the poor. He reduced palace expenses, dismissed entertainers, and lent public lands to farmers. He also sent officials to inspect local governance and seek wise men. In subsequent years, Emperor Yuan continued responding to crises: earthquakes, floods, plagues, and famines led to further tax exemptions, amnesties, and relief measures. He abolished certain laws, reduced palace staff, and encouraged remonstrance. He appointed Confucian scholars like Gong Yu and Kuang Heng as officials, but his indecisiveness weakened the state. He also dealt with rebellions, such as the Xiqiang uprising, and military campaigns against the Xiongnu, including the execution of Zhizhi Chanyu.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
赦天下。
群臣上寿。置酒，以其图书示后宫贵人。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕承先帝之休烈，夙夜栗栗，惧不克任。
间者阴阳不调，五行失序，百姓饥馑。
惟烝庶之失业，临遣谏大夫博士赏等二十一人循行天下，存问耆老、鳏、寡、孤、独、乏困、失职之人，举茂材特立之士。
相、将、九卿，其帅意毋怠，使朕获观教化之流焉。
六月甲申，中山王竟薨。
蓝田地沙石雍霸水，安陵岸崩雍泾水，水逆流。
五年春三月，诏曰： 盖闻明王之治国也，明好恶而定去就，崇敬让而民兴行，故法设而民不犯，令施而民从。
今朕获保宗庙，兢兢业业，匪敢解怠，德薄明晻，教化浅微。
传不云乎？ 百姓有过，在予一人。
其赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，三老、孝弟、力田帛。
又曰： 方春，农桑兴，百姓戮力自尽之时也，故是月劳农劝民，无使后时。
今不良之吏，覆案小罪，征召证案，兴不急之事，以妨百姓，使失一时之作，亡终岁之功，公卿其明察申敕之。
夏六月庚申，复戾园。
壬申晦，日有蚀之。
秋七月庚子，复太上皇寝庙园、原庙，昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后、卫思后园。
竟宁元年春正月，匈奴乎韩邪单于来朝。
诏曰： 匈奴郅支单于背叛礼义，既伏其辜，乎韩邪单于不忘恩德，乡慕礼义，复修朝贺之礼，愿保塞传之无穷，边垂长无兵革之事。
translation: 
Forgive the world.
The county ministers bought wine to congratulate each other and said "Long Live Long Live". Emperor Yuan displayed the book about the conquest of Zhizhi and watched it with the nobles in the harem.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited the great achievements of the late emperor, and I am terrified day and night, fearing that I will not be up to the task.
In the previous period, Yang and Yin were not in harmony, and the five elements were out of order. The people were hungry.
In order to understand the situation of the common people who have lost their usual jobs, ten people including Dr. Shou, an admonishing doctor, were sent to travel around the country to express condolences to the elderly, widowers, lonely, poor and unemployed people, and to recommend talented people with outstanding talents.
General and Prime Minister Jiuqing must work hard to implement my intentions so that I can understand the operation of politics, religion and customs.
On the fifth day of June, Liu Jing, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
The sand and gravel in Lantian blocked the Ba River, and the Anling Bank collapsed and blocked the Jing River, causing the water to flow backwards.
In the spring and March of the fifth year, an edict was issued saying: I have often heard that King Ming governed the country by clarifying standards of right and wrong for his subjects to follow, advocating rigor and modesty, and forming a social atmosphere. Therefore, the laws were established but the people did not violate them, and the orders were given and the people were happy to obey them.
Today I inherit the ancestral temple and work diligently and dare not slack off. However, my virtue is weak and my eyes are dark, and my education is shallow.
Didn’t the Analects of Confucius say it? The faults of the people should all be held responsible by those who rule the world.
Now I will pardon the world and reward you with the rank of civil nobility. For every 100 households of women, a certain amount of cattle and wine will be given, and for the three elders and filial piety, a certain amount of farmland and silk will be given.
The edict also said: It is the period of spring plowing and sericulture, and it is the time for the people to go all out. Therefore, farmers must be comforted this month and not violate the farming season.
There are now unscrupulous officials who, in order to investigate minor crimes, recruit witnesses to the office to testify. If some unurgent things are done to hinder the people, causing them to delay the farming season and lose the season, resulting in no harvest after autumn, the minister must understand this carefully and give repeated orders to ensure that it does not harm farming.
On the 17th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Prince Li's garden mausoleum was restored.
June 30th, partial solar eclipse.
On the 28th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the temple garden of the Emperor Taishang, the original temple of Gaozu, the tombs of Empress Zhaoling, King Wu Ai, Empress Zhao Ai and Hou Wei Si were restored.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Jingning, the Xiongnu Hu Hanxie Shanyu came to court.
The edict said: The Xiongnu Zhizhi Chanyu betrayed etiquette and justice and was punished for his crime. Hu Hanxie Chanyu did not forget his kindness and admired the etiquette and justice of the Han Dynasty. He once again revised the ritual of greetings and was willing to maintain the long-term harmony and friendship between the Central Plains and the outside of the Great Wall so that the border chief would not suffer the disaster of military revolution. He could change his name to Jingning.
summary:
Emperor Yuan's reign saw numerous natural disasters and social unrest. He repeatedly issued edicts blaming himself for poor governance and seeking advice. He reformed policies, including abolishing the death penalty for certain family crimes and reducing corvée labor. He also established his own mausoleum, Weiling, and ordered that no new migrants be forced to settle there.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
皇太子冠。
赐列侯嗣子爵五大夫，天下为父后者爵一级。
二月，御史大夫延寿卒。
三月癸未，复孝惠皇帝寝庙园、教文太后、孝昭太后寝园。
夏，封骑都尉甘延寿为列侯。
赐副校尉陈汤爵关内侯、黄金百斤。
五月壬辰，帝崩于未央宫。
毁太上皇、孝惠、孝景皇帝庙。
罢孝文、孝昭太后、昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后寝园。
秋七月丙戌，葬渭陵。
赞曰：臣外祖兄弟为元帝侍中，语臣曰：元帝多材艺，善史书。鼓琴瑟，吹洞箫，自度曲，被歌声，分节度，穷极幼眇。
少而好儒，及即位，征用儒生，委之以政，贡、薛、韦、匡迭为宰相。
而上牵制文义，优游不断，孝宣之业衰焉。
然宽弘尽下，出于恭俭，号令温雅，有古之风烈。
translation: 
The chanyu was given to wait for the imperial edict to be followed by King Qiang of Yeting. The Crown Prince performed the coronation ceremony.
The princes and heirs of the marquis are given the rank of five great officials. The world is the heir of his father.
In February, the imperial censor, Fan Yanshou, passed away.
On March 14, the temple and cemetery of Emperor Hui's dormitory and the dormitories of Empress Dowager Xiaowen and Empress Dowager Xiaozhao were restored.
In the summer, Gan Yanshou, the Cavalry Commander, was granted the rank of Marquis.
The deputy captain Chen Tangjue was given to the Marquis of Guannei with a hundred catties of gold.
On May 25th, Emperor Yuan died in Weiyang Palace.
Fires broke out in the temples of Emperor Taishang, Emperor Hui and Emperor Jing.
Then go to the residence of Emperor Wen, Empress Dowager Zhao, Empress Zhao Ling, King Wu Ai, and Empress Zhao Ai.
On the 19th day of the seventh month in autumn, Emperor Yuan was buried in Weiling.
Ban Gu's comment: My maternal grandfather's brother once served as Emperor Yuan's servant. He told me that Emperor Yuan had a wide range of interests and was proficient in calligraphy. He could play the piano and flute, and could compose new lyrics according to music scores. He had clear rhythms and was extremely clever.
As a young man, he respected Confucianism and succeeded to the throne. Confucian scholars were recruited and entrusted with political affairs. Confucian scholars such as Gong Yu, Xue Guangde, Wei Xian, and Kuang Heng successively became prime ministers.
However, Emperor Yuan was restrained by literary principles and was indecisive, and Emperor Xuan's Zhongxing career declined.
However, despite his generosity and magnanimity, he was respectful and thrifty, and his orders were gentle and elegant, which was the legacy of the ancient wise kings.
summary:
Emperor Yuan died in 33 BCE after 16 years of rule. Ban Gu's commentary notes that Emperor Yuan was talented in music and calligraphy, respected Confucianism, and appointed many Confucian scholars as officials. However, his indecisiveness and adherence to literary principles led to the decline of Emperor Xuan's achievements. Despite this, his generosity, thrift, and gentle edicts reflected the legacy of ancient wise kings.

