Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元皇帝，宣帝太子也。
母曰共哀许皇后，宣帝微时生民间。
年二岁，宣帝即位。
八岁，立为太子。
壮大，柔仁好儒。
见宣帝所用多文法吏，以刑名绳下，大臣杨恽、盖宽饶等坐刺讥辞语为罪而诛，尝侍燕从容言： 陛下持刑太深，宜用儒生。
宣帝作色曰： 汉家自有制度，本以霸王道杂之，奈何纯任德教，用周政乎！
且俗儒不达时宜，好是古非今，使人眩于名实，不知所守，何足委任？
乃叹曰： 乱我家者，太子也！
由是疏太子而爱淮阳王，曰： 淮阳王明察好法，宜为吾子。
而王母张婕妤尤幸。
上有意欲用淮阳王代太子，然以少依许氏，俱从微起，故终不背焉。
黄龙元年十二月，宣帝崩。
癸巳，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
尊皇太后曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
初元元年春正月辛丑，孝宣皇帝葬杜陵。
赐诸侯王、公主、列侯黄金，吏二千石以下钱、帛，各有差。
大赦天下。
三月，封皇太后兄侍中中郎将王舜为安平侯。
丙午，立皇后王氏。
以三辅、太常、郡国公田及苑可省者振业贫民，訾不满千钱者赋贷种、食。
封外祖父平恩戴侯同产弟子中常侍许嘉为平恩侯，奉戴侯后。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕承先帝之圣绪，获奉宗宙，战战兢兢。
间者地数动而未静，惧于天地之戒，不知所由。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty was the prince of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty.
My mother was Queen Gongai Xu, who was born among the people when Emperor Xuan was humble.
When he was two years old, Emperor Xuan succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Yuan was eight years old, he was made a prince.
As an adult, he is generous and respectful of Confucianism.
Seeing that most of the officials employed by Emperor Xuan were legal officials, they respected the emperor and humbled his ministers in order to rule the world with their names and deeds. Ministers Yang Yun, Gai Kuorao, etc. were all executed for the crime of ridiculing the emperor. They often said calmly when serving in peacetime: Your Majesty's punishment is too deep, and Confucian scholars should be used.
Emperor Xuan got angry and said: The Han family has its own system, which alternates between kings and hegemons. Why should they specialize in benevolent government and imitate the Zhou Dynasty?
Moreover, ordinary Confucian scholars are unable to combine what they have learned with practice, preferring to attach importance to the past and disregard the present, which confuses people with their names and reality, and they do not know what to do. How can they be entrusted with important responsibilities?
So he sighed: The one who disrupts my Liu family's order will be the prince!
Therefore, he neglected the prince and loved Huaiyang. Emperor Xuan said: The King of Huaiyang is good at making judgments and loves to study law. He should inherit my career.
Zhang Jieyu, the mother of King Huaiyang, was even more favored.
Emperor Xuan intended to replace the prince with King Huaiyang, but because he relied on the Xu family when he was a humble boy, the couple had a bad sworn relationship, so in the end he refused to abandon Queen Xu and establish another prince.
In December of the first year of Huanglong, Emperor Xuan died.
On the 26th, the prince succeeded to the throne and went to the Gaomiao to offer sacrifices.
The empress dowager is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress is the empress dowager.
On the fourth day of the first month of spring in the first year of the Chu Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was buried in Duling.
The princes, princesses, and princes were rewarded with gold, and the officials were rewarded with cash and silk of less than two thousand dan, each with their own differences.
Amnesty to the world.
In March, the Empress Dowager's brother, Zhonglang General Wang Shun, was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the queen was named Wang.
Those who could borrow the land in Sanfu, Taichang, prefectures and royal gardens were lent to the poor for farming, and those whose family property was less than a thousand yuan were lent seeds and grain.
Among the sons of his maternal grandfather, Ping'en Daihou, the son of Xu Jia, who often served as a servant, was given the title of Ping'enhou, so that he would be the queen of Daihou.
In April of Xia, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited the sacred cause of the late emperor, and I can serve the ancestral temple with caution.
There have been several earthquakes in recent times, and we are alarmed by God's warning, but we don't know the cause.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
方田作时，朕忧蒸庶之失业，临遣光禄大夫褒等十二人循行天下，存问耆老、鳏、寡、孤、独、困乏、失职之民，延登贤俊，招显侧陋，因览风俗之化。相、守二千石诚能正躬劳力，宣明教化，以亲万姓，则六合之内和亲，庶几虖无忧矣。
《书》不云乎？ 股肱良哉，庶事康哉！
布告天下，使明知朕意。
又曰： 关东今年谷不登，民多困乏。
其令郡国被灾害甚者毋出租赋。
江、海、陂、湖、园、池属少府者以假贫民，勿租赋。
赐宗室有属籍者马一匹至二驷，三老、孝者帛五匹，弟者、力田三匹、鳏、寡、孤、独二匹，吏民五十户牛、酒。
六月，以民疾疫，令大官损膳，减乐府员，省苑马，以振困乏。
秋八月，上郡属国降胡万余人亡入匈奴。
九月，关东郡国十一大水，饥，或人相食，转旁郡钱、谷以相救。
诏曰： 间者，阴阳不调，黎民饥寒，无以保治，惟德浅薄，不足以充入旧贯之居。
其令诸宫、馆希御幸者勿缮治，太仆减谷食马，水衡省肉食兽。
二年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
赐云阳民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒。
立弟竟为清河王。
三月，立广陵厉王太子霸为王。
诏罢黄门乘舆狗马，水衡禁囿、宜春下苑、少府佽飞外池、严篽池田假与贫民。
诏曰： 盖闻贤圣在位，阴阳和，风雨时，日月光，星辰静，黎庶康宁，考终厥命。
今朕恭承天地，托于公侯之上，明不能烛，德不能绥，灾异并臻，连年不息。
乃二月戊午，地震于陇西郡，毁落太上皇庙殿壁木饰，坏败豲道县城郭官寺及民室屋，压杀人众。
translation: 
At the time of the farming season, I was worried that some of the people were unable to farm, so I promptly dispatched Dr. Guanglu Bao and 12 other people to travel around the country to express condolences to the elderly, widowers, lonely, poor people who had lost their usual occupations, to invite wise men, and to consult hermits. Through the observation of customs and education, the governor, the state minister and Erqian Shiguo can lead by example and be diligent in political affairs, and declare the imperial education, so that all the people will be in harmony with each other.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? If your ministers are kind, everything will be peaceful!
I am hereby announcing it to the world so that my intentions will be known to all.
The edict also said: The grain harvest in Guandong has failed this year and the people are sleepy.
The counties and counties that have been seriously affected by the disaster are now exempted from rent.
Jianghai Pihu Garden belongs to the Shaofu and can be lent to the poor to make a living without any rental tax.
The Liu family's names were rewarded from one to eight horses in the genealogy, five horses were given to the elders and filial sons, three horses were given to the brothers and those in Litian, two horses were given to the widows and widowers, and some cattle and wine were given to every fifty households.
In June, due to the epidemic of plague among the people, the palace was ordered to save food expenses, reduce Yuefu staff, reduce the number of horses in the imperial garden, and use its property to provide relief to needy areas.
In autumn and August, more than 10,000 Hu people from the vassal state of Shangjun surrendered and fled into the Xiongnu region.
In September, there were floods in eleven places in Guandong County, and famine was serious. In some places, people ate each other, and nearby Qiangu was transported to provide disaster relief.
The edict said: In the former case, the yin and yang were not in harmony, the people were hungry and cold, and lost their livelihood. It was only because my virtue was shallow that I was not qualified to take on the important task of governing the world, so I stayed in the palace of the late emperor.
It is now ordered that the premises of various government offices preparing to welcome the emperor do not need to be repaired, the servants of the emperor are ordered to reduce the amount of food they feed the horses, and the water balance is ordered to reduce the amount of meat they raise of rare birds and animals.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
The subjects of Yunyang were rewarded with a first-class title, and the women were given a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households.
His younger brother Liu Jing was granted the title of King of Qinghe.
In March, Crown Prince Li of Guangling was granted the title of Prince Ba.
An edict was issued to remove the vehicles, dogs and horses from the nearby offices, and the gardens, Xuanchun Garden, Shaofu hunting grounds and ponds in the Sheyuan where mining was prohibited were all used for the poor to make a living.
The edict said: It is often heard that the sage emperor and the wise king are in power, the yin and yang are in harmony, the weather is smooth, the sun and the moon are shining, the stars are aligned, the people are peaceful, and their lives are prolonged.
Today, I respectfully inherit the heaven and earth, and I am honored above the princes. I am not able to illuminate the world with my candle, and my virtue is not enough to bring peace to the people. Disasters occur again and again, year after year.
On February 28, an earthquake occurred in Longxi County, destroying the wooden decorations on the walls of the Supreme Emperor's Temple, destroying Guoguan Temple and people's houses in the original county seat, and killing many people.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
山崩地裂，水泉涌出。
天惟降灾，震惊朕师。
治有大亏，咎至于斯。
夙夜兢兢，不通大变，深惟郁悼，未知其序。
间者岁数不登，元元困乏，不胜饥寒，以陷刑辟，朕甚闵之。
郡国被地动灾甚者，无出租赋。
赦天下。有可蠲除、减省以便万姓者，条秦，毋有所讳。
丞相、御史、中二千石举茂材异等、直言极谏之士，朕将亲览焉。
夏四月丁巳，立皇太子。
赐御史大夫爵关内侯，中二千石右庶长，天下当为父后者爵一级，列侯钱各二十万，五大夫十万。
六月，关东饥，齐地人相食。
秋七月，诏曰： 岁比灾害，民有菜色，惨怛于心。
已诏吏虚仓廪，开府库振救，赐寒者衣。
今秋禾麦颇伤。
一年中地再动。北海水溢，流杀人民。
阴阳不和，其咎安在？
公卿将何以忧之？
其悉意陈朕过，靡有所讳。
冬，诏曰： 国之将兴，尊师而重傅。
故前将军望之傅朕八年，道以经书，厥功茂焉。其赐爵关内侯，食邑八百户，朝朔、望。
十二月，中书令弘恭、石显等谮望之，令自杀。
三年春，令诸侯相位在郡守下。
珠厓郡山南县反，博谋群臣。
待诏贾捐之以为宜弃珠厓，救民饥馑。
乃罢珠厓。
夏四月乙未晦，茂陵白鹤馆灾。
诏曰： 乃者火灾降于孝武园馆，朕战栗恐惧。
不烛变异，咎在朕躬。
群司又未肯极言朕过，以至于斯，将何以寤焉！
百姓仍遭凶厄，无以相振，加以烦扰虖苛吏，拘牵乎微文，不得永终性命，朕甚闵焉。其赦天下。
夏，旱。
translation: 
The mountains collapsed and the ground cracked, and water springs gush out.
God has sent disasters and warned me many times.
There are mistakes in governing the country, and the consequences are deserved.
I was trembling day and night, unable to understand the cause of the disaster. I felt unspeakable pain in my heart and my thoughts were disordered.
Harvests have often failed in recent years, and the people are so poor that they cannot bear the cold and hunger, so they take desperate risks and end up in prison. I feel deeply sorry for them.
The county will be exempted from rent due to severe earthquake disaster.
For the sake of pardoning the world, anything that can be eliminated or reduced to facilitate the people can be reported one by one without any avoidance.
The Prime Minister, the Censor, and Zhong Erqianshi all recommended talented people who dared to speak out and give advice. I will personally read their criticisms and suggestions.
On April 28th in the summer, the crown prince was established.
The imperial censor was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, the title of Zhong Erqianshi was given to Zuo Shuchang, and the title of the father's heir in the world was one. The princes were rewarded with 200,000 yuan, and the five officials were rewarded with 100,000 yuan.
In June, a serious famine occurred in Guandong, and people in Qi were eating each other.
In the seventh month of autumn, an edict was issued saying: "I am deeply saddened by the successive years of disasters and the deprivation of food for the people."
Relevant officials have been ordered to empty warehouses and open treasury to provide food to the hungry and clothing to the cold.
This autumn, crops and wheat have also been affected to varying degrees.
There are several earthquakes in a year, and the tide in the North Sea rises, killing people.
Yin and Yang are not in harmony, what is the fault?
How does the minister think it should be handled?
I hope you can fully criticize my faults without any need to hide anything.
In winter, an edict was issued saying: If the country will prosper, respect the master.
The former general regarded him as my master for eight years. He taught me scriptures and his achievements were very good. Now I have given him the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 800 households. He only enters the court on the first and fifteenth day of every month.
In December, Zhongshu ordered Honggong, Shi Xian and others to falsely accuse Wangzhi, and Emperor Yuan ordered Wangzhi to commit suicide.
In the spring of the third year, the ministers of the princes and states were ordered to be under the jurisdiction of the county governor.
Shannan County of Zhuya County rebelled and planned to conquer all officials.
Waiting for the imperial edict, Jia Ganzhi thought that the Zhuya rebellion could be temporarily abandoned and all efforts should be concentrated on disaster relief.
So no action was taken against Zhuya.
On April 30th in summer, there was a fire in Maoling White Crane Pavilion.
The edict was issued saying: The former fire occurred in the mausoleum of Emperor Wu's Garden, and I was trembling with fear.
I am at fault for not understanding the cause of the mutation.
The ministers are not willing to criticize my mistakes, so how can I sleep peacefully at the table?
The people have suffered from repeated disasters, the state has failed to provide relief, and they are harassed by harsh officials and restricted by regulations that prevent them from saving their lives. I am very sympathetic and now decide to pardon the world.
In summer, drought occurred.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
立长沙炀王弟宗为王。封故海昏侯贺子代宗为侯。
六月，诏曰： 盖闻安民之道，本由阴阳。
间者阴阳错谬，风雨不时。
朕之不德，庶几群公有敢言朕之过者，今则不然。
偷合苟从，未肯极言，朕甚闵焉。
惟烝庶之饥寒，远离父母、妻子，劳于非业之作，卫于不居之宫，恐非所以佐阴阳之道也。
其罢甘泉、建章宫卫，令就农。
百官各省费。条奏毋有所讳。
有司勉之，毋犯四时之禁。
丞相、御史举天下明阴阳灾异者各三人。
于是言事者众，或进擢召见，人人自以得上意。
四年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
赦汾阴徒。赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，鳏、寡、高年帛。
行所过无出租赋。
五年春正月，以周子南君为周承休侯，位次诸侯王。
三月，行幸雍，祠五畤。
元元失望，上感皇天，阴阳为变，咎流万民，朕甚惧之。
乃者关东连遭灾害。饥寒疾疫，夭不终命。
《诗》不云乎， 凡民有丧，匍匐救之。
其令太官毋日杀，所具各减半。
乘舆秣马，无乏正事而已。
罢角抵、上林宫、馆希御幸者、齐三服官、北假田官、盐铁官、常平仓。
博士弟子毋置员，以广学者。
赐宗室子有属籍者马一匹至二驷，三老、孝者帛，人五匹，弟者、力田三匹，鳏、寡、孤、独二匹，吏民五十户牛、酒。
translation: 
He established Zong, the younger brother of King Yang of Changsha, as king, and made Dai Zong, the son of the late Haihun Houhe, a marquis.
In June, an edict was issued saying: I have heard that the way to calm the people lies in the coordination of yin and yang.
Things have been going wrong lately, with wind and rain coming from time to time.
If I have some shortcomings in my moral conduct, I always hope that some of the ministers will be able to point out my faults without hesitation, but this is not the case.
I am deeply uneasy about being a submissive person and refusing to do my best to give advice.
I often miss the hunger and cold of the common people. Some of them stay away from their parents and wives, doing non-urgent tasks for officials and guarding the uninhabited palaces. This is probably not in line with the way of coordinating Yin and Yang!
It is now decided to remove the guards of Ganquan and Jianzhang Palace and order the guards to go to work.
All officials spend money in each province, and there is no need to scruple in submitting memorials.
Relevant officials must fulfill their duties and not delay the farming season.
The Prime Minister and Censor recommended three people in the world who understood the differences between yin and yang disasters.
Since then, more and more people have made criticisms and suggestions. Some were promoted and summoned, and everyone thought they could understand the emperor's will.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
The Fenyin prisoners were pardoned, and the subjects were rewarded with a rank of nobility, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widowers and senior citizens.
This year's rental tax will be exempted wherever you drive.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Lord Zinan of Zhou was named the Marquis of Zhou Chengxiu, ranking second among the princes and kings.
In the third month, he came to Yongdi and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
In April of summer, comets appeared in the Satellite area. The edict was issued saying: I am not diligent in my political work, my appointment of officials is disorderly and my responsibilities are unclear, my organization is incomplete and my duties are in vain.
Disappoint the people. Not long ago, Kanto suffered from successive disasters, including hunger, cold, and epidemics, causing abnormal deaths.
Didn't "Poetry" say it? Whenever someone is in trouble, they should try their best to help.
The eunuchs are now ordered not to slaughter livestock and poultry every day, and the royal meal is to be reduced by half according to the recipe.
The carriages and horses provided by the palace are only necessary for suburban rituals and ghost hunting.
The play of Jiaodian was dismissed and the concubine in Shanglin Palace was sent back. The officials in charge of embroidery and clothing, Yantieguan, and Changpingcang were dismissed.
There is no full-time job for doctoral students, and scholars in society must be widely cultivated.
The men in the clan who are named in the family tree will be given one to eight horses, and the three elders and those who are filial will be rewarded with five horses each. The brothers and Li Tian were each rewarded with three pieces of silk. Each widower and widower has two horses each, and fifty households of officials and civilians are rewarded with some cattle and wine.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
省刑罚七十余事。除光禄大夫以下至郎中保父母同产之令。
令从官给事宫司马中者，得为大父母、父母、兄弟通籍。
冬十二月丁未，御史大夫贡禹卒。
卫司马谷吉使匈奴，不还。
永光元年春正月，行幸甘泉，效泰畤。赦云阳徒。
赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，高年帛。
行所过毋出租赋。
二月，诏丞相、御史举质朴敦厚逊让有行者，光禄岁以此科第郎、从宫。
三月，诏曰： 五帝、三王任贤使能，以登至平，而今不治者，岂斯民异哉？
咎在朕之不明，亡以知贤也。
是故壬人在位，而吉士雍蔽。
重以周、秦之弊，民渐薄俗，去礼义，触刑法，岂不哀哉！
由此观之，元元何辜？
其赦天下，令厉精自新，各务农亩。
无田者皆假之，贷种、食如贫民。
赐吏六百石以上爵五大夫，勤事吏二级，民一级，女子百户牛、酒，鳏、寡、孤、独、高年帛。
是月雨雪，陨霜伤麦稼，秋罢。
二年春二月，诏曰： 盖闻唐、虞象刑而民不犯，殷周法行而奸轨服。
今朕获承高祖之洪业，托位公侯之上，夙夜战栗，永惟百姓之急，未尝有忘焉。
然而阴阳未调，三光晻昧。元元大困，流散道路，盗贼并兴。
有司又长残贼，失牧民之术。
是皆朕之不明，政有所亏。
咎至于此，朕甚自耻。
为民父母，若是之薄，谓百姓何？
其大赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，鳏、寡、孤、独、高年、三老、孝弟、力田帛。
又赐诸侯王、公主、列侯黄金，中二千石以下至中都官长吏各有差，吏六百石以上爵五大夫，勤事吏各二级。
translation: 
More than 70 sentences were reduced, and the law that all parents and brothers from Dr. Guanglu to the doctor should be sentenced to prison together if one of them committed a crime.
Those who order the emperor's daily attendants to serve outside the palace should clearly fill in the ages, names, and physical characteristics of their grandparents, parents, and brothers.
On the ninth day of the eleventh month in winter, the imperial censor Gong Yu passed away.
Wei Sima Guji went on an envoy to the Huns and disappeared.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Yongguang, he came to Ganquan, offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs, and pardoned the prisoners in Yunyang.
The subjects will be rewarded with a rank of nobility and a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women.
In the old year, he was given silk, and there was no rental tax wherever the royal driver passed by.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to the prime minister and censor to recommend people who were simple, honest, humble, and highly virtuous. According to this content, Guanglu would take exams every year to determine his grade as a school doctor and an official.
In March, an edict was issued saying: The five emperors and three kings appointed talents and envoys to rule the world. But today the country is in chaos. Could it be that the people are different?
The problem lies in my ignorance and inability to identify talents.
Therefore, when the sycophant is in power, the wise man will be blocked and excluded.
Especially since the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, the social atmosphere has deteriorated, causing some people to abandon etiquette and justice and violate the criminal law. It is really sad!
From this point of view, what is the crime of the people?
Now the world is being pardoned, and the offenders are asked to work hard to rehabilitate themselves and engage in agricultural production.
Those without land borrowed public land and lent seeds and grains like ordinary poor people.
Officials who are rewarded with more than 600 stones are given the rank of fifth doctor, officials who are diligent in political affairs are given the second rank, and common people who inherit their fathers are given the first rank. Women will be given a certain amount of cattle and wine to a hundred households, and a certain amount of silk will be given to a widower, a widower and a senior citizen.
It rained and snowed this month, and severe frosts damaged the wheat crops, resulting in no harvest in the autumn.
In the spring and February of the second year, an edict was issued saying: I have heard that Tang and Yu used symbolic punishments but the people did not break the law, and that the laws of the Shang and Zhou dynasties were implemented and the traitors were frightened into submission.
Today, I can inherit the great achievements of our great ancestors and hold a high position above the ministers. I work in fear day and night. I have long been concerned about the suffering of the people and have never forgotten it.
However, the yin and yang are not adjusted, the sun and the moon are dim, the people are miserable and homeless, and thieves are on the rise.
The competent agencies also encouraged the thieves and failed to take effective measures to govern the people.
This is all due to my ignorance and my inability to govern the country.
This is my fault, and I feel deeply guilty.
If you are the parents of the common people, but you are so ungrateful, how can you care for the common people!
A general amnesty should be granted to the whole world, and rewards should be given to the first level of civil nobility, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widows, widowers, senior citizens, three elders, and filial brothers.
He also rewarded the princes, princesses, and princes with gold, with gold ranging from less than two thousand dan to officials in the central capital on a mission basis. Officials with more than 600 shi will be rewarded with five ranks of nobles, and officials who are diligent in political affairs will be rewarded with two ranks.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
三月壬戌朔，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 朕战战栗栗，夙夜思过失，不敢荒宁。
惟阴阳不调，未烛其咎，娄敕公卿，日望有效。
至今有司执政，未得其中，施与禁切，未合民心，暴猛之俗弥长，和睦之道日衰，百姓愁苦，靡所错躬。
是以氛邪岁增，侵犯太阳，正气湛掩，日久夺光。
乃壬戌，日有蚀之，天见大异，以戒朕躬，朕甚悼焉。
其令内郡国举茂材异等、贤良、直言之士各一人。 夏六月，诏曰： 间者连年不收，四方咸困。
元元之民，劳于耕耘，又亡成功，困于饥馑，亡以相救。
朕为民父母，德不能覆，而有其刑，甚自伤焉。
其赦天下。
秋七月，西羌反，遣右将军冯奉世击之。
八月，以太常任千秋为奋威将军，别将五校并进。
三年春，西羌平，军罢。
三月，立皇子康为济阳王。
夏四月癸未，大司马车骑将军接薨。
冬十一月，诏曰： 乃者已丑地动，中冬雨水、大雾，盗贼并起。
吏何不以时禁？
各悉意对。
冬，复盐铁官、博士弟子员。
以用度不足，民多复除，无以给中外徭役。
四年春二月，诏曰： 朕承至尊之重，不能烛理百姓，娄遭凶咎。
加以边境不安，师旅在外，赋敛、转输，元元骚动，穷困亡聊，犯法抵罪。
夫上失其道而绳下以深刑，朕甚痛之。
其赦天下，所贷贫民勿收责。
夏六月甲戌，孝宣园东阙灾。
戊寅晦，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 盖闻明王在上，忠贤布职，则群生和乐，方外蒙泽。
今朕晻于王道，夙夜忧劳，不通其理，靡瞻不眩，靡听不惑，是以政令多还，民心未得，邪说空进，事亡成功。此天下所著闻也。
公卿大夫好恶不同，或缘奸作邪，侵削细民，元元安所归命哉！
乃六月晦，日有蚀之。
《诗》不云乎？ 今此下民，亦孔之哀！
自今以来，公卿大夫其勉思天戒，慎身修永，以辅朕之不逮。
直言尽意，无有所讳。
translation: 
On the first day of March, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The edict was issued: I tremble, tremble, reflect on my mistakes day and night, and do not dare to waste my time and feel at ease.
Regarding the imbalance of yin and yang, I don’t know where the error lies. He has repeatedly informed the ministers, hoping that they will work hard in politics.
So far, some people in charge of government affairs have failed to grasp the fundamentals. They have provided insufficient benefits and burdensome prohibitions, and cannot win the support of the people. The violent atmosphere is growing day by day, the path of harmony is declining day by day, and the people are miserable and unable to live.
Therefore, the evil energy pervades and invades the sun, the righteous energy sinks, and the sun is robbed of light.
On the first day of March, there was a partial eclipse of the sun, and strange phenomena appeared in the sky to warn me. I am deeply saddened.
We now order each county in the Central Plains to recruit an outspoken person with both virtue and talent. In the sixth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: In recent years, the harvest has been poor year after year, and everyone is trapped in all directions.
People from all over the country are working hard and getting nothing, and are in the plight of hunger, unable to help each other.
As a parent of the common people, my kindness cannot be universalized, but only punishments are added together. I feel deeply sad in my heart.
Now forgive the world.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Xiqiang rebelled. He sent right general Feng Fengshi to lead troops to put down the rebellion.
In August, Taichang appointed Qianqiu as General Fenwei, and led troops from the five schools to advance alongside the right general.
In the spring of the third year, the Western Qiang were pacified and their troops withdrawn.
In March, Prince Kang was made King of Jiyang.
On the 9th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, General Wang, a general on horseback riding on a chariot, passed away.
In the eleventh month of winter, an edict was issued: On October 8th, there was an earthquake, heavy rain and fog arose in the winter month, and thieves broke out everywhere.
Why didn't the officials ban it in time?
Everyone should try their best to propose countermeasures.
In winter, Yantieguan and doctorate disciples were reestablished.
In view of the hardship of the people's lives, most taxes were exempted and exempted, and there was no need to provide corvee labor in Kyoto and other places.
In the spring and February of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: I inherited the great responsibility of the Supreme Being, but could not effectively govern the people, causing them to suffer repeated disasters.
In addition, the border was uneasy and the army was outside, so the people were exhausted, impoverished and bored, and they broke the law and committed crimes while collecting taxes and supporting the front line.
I am deeply saddened by the failure of the government to govern and the use of harsh punishments on the people.
Now the world is pardoned, and the grain money originally lent to the poor will not be repaid.
On the 27th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, a fire broke out at the east gate of Emperor Xuan's mausoleum.
On the 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The edict said: I have heard that if King Ming is on top and the loyal and virtuous perform their duties, the people can live and work in peace and contentment, and the surrounding areas will be blessed.
Today, I am secretly hiding in the royal way, worrying day and night, but I still cannot find the true meaning of governing the way. Every time I see something, I can't decide on a standard, every time I hear a word, I can't make up my mind. This is because the government decrees cannot be implemented to the end, and they cannot get the true support of the subjects. They make empty talk and fail to accomplish a few practical things. This is common knowledge in the world.
The likes and dislikes of ministers and officials are all different. Some are guilty of evil, corrupt and perverting the law. Who will the people rely on?
On June 30, there was a solar eclipse.
Didn't "Poetry" say it? The people today are suffering from disasters and are in a very sad situation!
From now on, the ministers and ministers should seriously consider the warnings shown by God, prudently cultivate themselves, and clarify the long-term goals of governance to assist me in my shortcomings.
Speak out and give advice without hiding anything.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
九月戊子，罢卫思后园及戾园。
冬十月乙丑，罢祖宗宙在郡国者。
诸陵分属三辅。
以渭城寿陵亭部原上为初陵。
诏曰： 安土重迁，黎民之性；骨肉相附，人情所愿也。
顷者有司缘臣子之义，奏徙郡国民以奉园陵，令百姓远弃先祖坟墓，破业失产，亲戚别离，人怀思慕之心，家有不安之意。
是以东垂被虚耗之害，关中有无聊之民，非久长之策也。《诗》不云乎？ 民亦劳止，迄可小康，惠此中国，以绥四方。
今所为初陵者，勿置县邑，使天下咸安土乐业，亡有动摇之心。
布告天下，令明知之。
又罢先后父母奉邑。
五年春正月，行幸甘泉，效泰畤。
三月，上幸河东，祠后土。
秋，颍川水出，流杀人民。
吏、从官县被害者与告，士卒遣归。
冬，上幸长杨射熊馆，布车骑，大猎。
十二月乙酉，毁太上皇、孝惠皇帝寝庙园。
建昭元年春三月，上幸雍，祠五畤。
秋八月，有白蛾群飞蔽日，从东都门至枳道。
冬，河间王元有罪，废迁房陵。
罢孝文太后、孝昭太后寝园。
二年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
益三河大郡太守秩。户十二万为大郡。
夏四月，赦天下。
六月，立皇子舆为信都王，闰月丁酉，太皇太后上官氏崩。
冬十一月，齐、楚地震，大雨雪，树折屋坏。
淮阳王舅张博、魏君太守京房坐窥道诸侯王以邪意，漏泄省中语，博要斩，房弃市。
三年夏，令三辅都尉、大郡都尉秩皆二千石。
六月甲辰，丞相玄成薨。
秋，使护西域骑都尉甘延寿、副校尉陈汤挢发戊已校尉屯田吏、士及西域胡兵攻郅支单于。
冬，斩其首，传诣京师，县蛮夷邸门。
四年春正月，以诛郅支单于告祠郊庙。
translation: 
On September 13th, we went to the Mausoleum of Weisi Houyuan and the Mausoleum of Prince Lu.
On the twentieth day of the tenth month in winter, I went to the ancestral temple in the county.
Each cemetery is placed under the jurisdiction of Sanfu.
The original site of the Shouling Pavilion in Weicheng was the first tomb of Emperor Yuan.
The edict said: "It is the nature of the people to settle down and relocate. It is the nature of human relations to stay together with flesh and blood."
Not long ago, the relevant agencies quoted the righteousness of ministers and petitioned the people of migrating counties to offer sacrifices at the Fengyuan Mausoleum. As a result, the people abandoned their ancestors' tombs, went bankrupt and lost their jobs, and separated their relatives. Those who moved out missed their relatives, and their relatives in the original place felt uneasy.
In this way, Guandong will waste money due to migration, and those who move to Guanzhong will have no job. This is not a long-term solution. Didn't "Poetry" say it? The people have worked hard for a long time, and now they can enjoy a little happiness. Show kindness to the Central Plains! And then stabilize the four directions.
The Chuling established today eliminates the need for immigrants to establish counties and cities, so that the whole world can live and work in peace and contentment without having to worry about migration.
It is specially announced to the world so that the people will know clearly.
Then he left Fengyi, where he kept tombs and offered sacrifices to his parents one after another.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong again to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
In autumn, the Yingchuan River burst and the people drowned.
Officials and subordinates of the emperor who were affected by floods in the county were given holidays to visit, and soldiers in the disaster areas were demobilized and returned to their hometowns.
In winter, Emperor Yuan came to Changyang Shexiong Pavilion to set up a train and ride on a large hunt.
On December 16, a fire broke out in the temple garden where Emperor Taishang and Emperor Hui lived.
In the spring and March of the first year of Jianzhao, Emperor Yuan came to Yongdi in person to offer sacrifices to the five emperors.
In autumn and July, there are swarms of white moths flying from Dongdu Gate to Zhidao.
In winter, Wang Yuan of Hejian was found guilty and was deposed as a commoner and moved to Fangling.
Let's go to the dormitory garden of Empress Dowager Xiaowen and Empress Dowager Xiaozhao.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong again to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
Increase the salary of the prefect of Sanhe County, a large county with 120,000 households.
Summer April, forgive the world.
In June, Prince Yu was granted the title of King of Xindu. On leap August 8, the Empress Dowager Shangguan passed away.
In November of winter, there was an earthquake in Qichu, heavy snow fell, and trees broke down and houses were damaged.
Zhang Bo, the uncle of the king of Huaiyang, and Jingfang, the prefect of Wei County, were guilty of instigating the lords and kings to betray forbidden secrets. Zhang Bo was beheaded and Jingfang was executed.
In the summer of the third year, he ordered the three auxiliary captains to be appointed, and the rank of captains in major counties was two thousand stones.
On June 19, Prime Minister Xuancheng passed away.
In the autumn, the imperial court stationed the cavalry captain Gan Yanshou and the deputy captain Chen Tang to protect the Western Regions. Jiao used the imperial court's order to mobilize the garrison captains, the soldiers in the field and the Hu soldiers from the western regions to attack Zhizhi Chanyu.
In winter, his head was beheaded, and the news reached the capital, where he hung it on the outer door of Honglu Guesthouse to show the public.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, due to the execution of the Zhizhi Chanyu, ancestor worship was held in the ancestral temple.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
赦天下。
群臣上寿。置酒，以其图书示后宫贵人。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕承先帝之休烈，夙夜栗栗，惧不克任。
间者阴阳不调，五行失序，百姓饥馑。
惟烝庶之失业，临遣谏大夫博士赏等二十一人循行天下，存问耆老、鳏、寡、孤、独、乏困、失职之人，举茂材特立之士。
相、将、九卿，其帅意毋怠，使朕获观教化之流焉。
六月甲申，中山王竟薨。
蓝田地沙石雍霸水，安陵岸崩雍泾水，水逆流。
五年春三月，诏曰： 盖闻明王之治国也，明好恶而定去就，崇敬让而民兴行，故法设而民不犯，令施而民从。
今朕获保宗庙，兢兢业业，匪敢解怠，德薄明晻，教化浅微。
传不云乎？ 百姓有过，在予一人。
其赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，三老、孝弟、力田帛。
又曰： 方春，农桑兴，百姓戮力自尽之时也，故是月劳农劝民，无使后时。
今不良之吏，覆案小罪，征召证案，兴不急之事，以妨百姓，使失一时之作，亡终岁之功，公卿其明察申敕之。
夏六月庚申，复戾园。
壬申晦，日有蚀之。
秋七月庚子，复太上皇寝庙园、原庙，昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后、卫思后园。
竟宁元年春正月，匈奴乎韩邪单于来朝。
诏曰： 匈奴郅支单于背叛礼义，既伏其辜，乎韩邪单于不忘恩德，乡慕礼义，复修朝贺之礼，愿保塞传之无穷，边垂长无兵革之事。
translation: 
Forgive the world.
The county ministers bought wine to congratulate each other and said "Long Live Long Live". Emperor Yuan displayed the book about the conquest of Zhizhi and watched it with the nobles in the harem.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited the great achievements of the late emperor, and I am terrified day and night, fearing that I will not be up to the task.
In the previous period, Yang and Yin were not in harmony, and the five elements were out of order. The people were hungry.
In order to understand the situation of the common people who have lost their usual jobs, ten people including Dr. Shou, an admonishing doctor, were sent to travel around the country to express condolences to the elderly, widowers, lonely, poor and unemployed people, and to recommend talented people with outstanding talents.
General and Prime Minister Jiuqing must work hard to implement my intentions so that I can understand the operation of politics, religion and customs.
On the fifth day of June, Liu Jing, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
The sand and gravel in Lantian blocked the Ba River, and the Anling Bank collapsed and blocked the Jing River, causing the water to flow backwards.
In the spring and March of the fifth year, an edict was issued saying: I have often heard that King Ming governed the country by clarifying standards of right and wrong for his subjects to follow, advocating rigor and modesty, and forming a social atmosphere. Therefore, the laws were established but the people did not violate them, and the orders were given and the people were happy to obey them.
Today I inherit the ancestral temple and work diligently and dare not slack off. However, my virtue is weak and my eyes are dark, and my education is shallow.
Didn’t the Analects of Confucius say it? The faults of the people should all be held responsible by those who rule the world.
Now I will pardon the world and reward you with the rank of civil nobility. For every 100 households of women, a certain amount of cattle and wine will be given, and for the three elders and filial piety, a certain amount of farmland and silk will be given.
The edict also said: It is the period of spring plowing and sericulture, and it is the time for the people to go all out. Therefore, farmers must be comforted this month and not violate the farming season.
There are now unscrupulous officials who, in order to investigate minor crimes, recruit witnesses to the office to testify. If some unurgent things are done to hinder the people, causing them to delay the farming season and lose the season, resulting in no harvest after autumn, the minister must understand this carefully and give repeated orders to ensure that it does not harm farming.
On the 17th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Prince Li's garden mausoleum was restored.
June 30th, partial solar eclipse.
On the 28th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the temple garden of the Emperor Taishang, the original temple of Gaozu, the tombs of Empress Zhaoling, King Wu Ai, Empress Zhao Ai and Hou Wei Si were restored.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Jingning, the Xiongnu Hu Hanxie Shanyu came to court.
The edict said: The Xiongnu Zhizhi Chanyu betrayed etiquette and justice and was punished for his crime. Hu Hanxie Chanyu did not forget his kindness and admired the etiquette and justice of the Han Dynasty. He once again revised the ritual of greetings and was willing to maintain the long-term harmony and friendship between the Central Plains and the outside of the Great Wall so that the border chief would not suffer the disaster of military revolution. He could change his name to Jingning.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
皇太子冠。
赐列侯嗣子爵五大夫，天下为父后者爵一级。
二月，御史大夫延寿卒。
三月癸未，复孝惠皇帝寝庙园、教文太后、孝昭太后寝园。
夏，封骑都尉甘延寿为列侯。
赐副校尉陈汤爵关内侯、黄金百斤。
五月壬辰，帝崩于未央宫。
毁太上皇、孝惠、孝景皇帝庙。
罢孝文、孝昭太后、昭灵后、武哀王、昭哀后寝园。
秋七月丙戌，葬渭陵。
赞曰：臣外祖兄弟为元帝侍中，语臣曰：元帝多材艺，善史书。鼓琴瑟，吹洞箫，自度曲，被歌声，分节度，穷极幼眇。
少而好儒，及即位，征用儒生，委之以政，贡、薛、韦、匡迭为宰相。
而上牵制文义，优游不断，孝宣之业衰焉。
然宽弘尽下，出于恭俭，号令温雅，有古之风烈。
translation: 
The chanyu was given to wait for the imperial edict to be followed by King Qiang of Yeting. The Crown Prince performed the coronation ceremony.
The princes and heirs of the marquis are given the rank of five great officials. The world is the heir of his father.
In February, the imperial censor, Fan Yanshou, passed away.
On March 14, the temple and cemetery of Emperor Hui's dormitory and the dormitories of Empress Dowager Xiaowen and Empress Dowager Xiaozhao were restored.
In the summer, Gan Yanshou, the Cavalry Commander, was granted the rank of Marquis.
The deputy captain Chen Tangjue was given to the Marquis of Guannei with a hundred catties of gold.
On May 25th, Emperor Yuan died in Weiyang Palace.
Fires broke out in the temples of Emperor Taishang, Emperor Hui and Emperor Jing.
Then go to the residence of Emperor Wen, Empress Dowager Zhao, Empress Zhao Ling, King Wu Ai, and Empress Zhao Ai.
On the 19th day of the seventh month in autumn, Emperor Yuan was buried in Weiling.
Ban Gu's comment: My maternal grandfather's brother once served as Emperor Yuan's servant. He told me that Emperor Yuan had a wide range of interests and was proficient in calligraphy. He could play the piano and flute, and could compose new lyrics according to music scores. He had clear rhythms and was extremely clever.
As a young man, he respected Confucianism and succeeded to the throne. Confucian scholars were recruited and entrusted with political affairs. Confucian scholars such as Gong Yu, Xue Guangde, Wei Xian, and Kuang Heng successively became prime ministers.
However, Emperor Yuan was restrained by literary principles and was indecisive, and Emperor Xuan's Zhongxing career declined.
However, despite his generosity and magnanimity, he was respectful and thrifty, and his orders were gentle and elegant, which was the legacy of the ancient wise kings.


