Chunk 0: 
original: 
昭明太子统，字德施，高祖长子也。
母曰丁贵嫔。
初，高祖未有男，义师起，太子以齐中兴元年九月生于襄阳。
高祖既受禅，有司奏立储副，高祖以天下始定，百度多阙，未之许也。
群臣固请，天监元年十一月，立为皇太子。
时太子年幼，依旧居于内，拜东宫官属文武，皆入直永福省。太子生而聪睿，三岁受《孝经》、《论语》，五岁遍读五经，悉能讽诵。
五年五月庚戌，始出居东宫。
太子性仁孝，自出宫，恒思恋不乐。
高祖知之，每五日一朝，多便留永福省，或五日三日乃还宫。
八年九月，于寿安殿讲《孝经》，尽通大义。
讲毕，亲临释奠于国学。
十四年正月朔旦，高祖临轩，冠太子于太极殿。
旧制，太子著远游冠，金蝉翠緌缨；至是，诏加金博山。
太子美姿貌，善举止。
translation: 
Prince Zhaoming Xiao Tong, courtesy name Deshi, was the eldest son of Emperor Wu of Liang.
The biological mother is Ding Guibi.
At first, Emperor Wu of Liang had no boys. When Emperor Wu of Liang led an uprising against the Marquis of Donghun, Xiao Tong was born in Xiangyang in September of the first year of Zhongxing in Qi.
After Emperor Wu of Liang ascended the throne, a minister submitted a letter requesting the establishment of a crown prince. Emperor Wu of Liang believed that the world had just stabilized and many systems were lacking and needed to be further improved, so he did not agree to appoint a successor to the throne.
Later, at the firm request of the ministers, in November of the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Tong was made the crown prince by Emperor Wu of Liang.
The prince was young at that time and still lived in the palace. Prince Xiao Tong was born with intelligence and cleverness. He started learning "The Classic of Filial Piety" and "The Analects of Confucius" at the age of three. By the age of five, he had learned all the Five Classics and was able to recite them.
On June 17, the fifth year, he moved out of the palace and moved into the East Palace.
Xiao Tong was kind and filial by nature. Since leaving the palace, he often missed his parents and was always in a depressed mood.
After Emperor Wu of Liang knew about this situation, he asked him to visit the court every five days, and he often stayed in Yongfu Province, sometimes for three days, sometimes for five days, before returning to the East Palace.
In September of the eighth year, Emperor Wu of Liang inspected his son's studies in Shou'an Hall and asked Xiao Tong to explain the "Book of Filial Piety". Xiao Tong's explanation was clear and clear.
After the explanation, he personally went to the Chinese Academy of Sciences to arrange a banquet to pay homage to the most holy teacher.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the 14th year, Emperor Wu of Liang met with his ministers on the platform in front of the palace and held a crowning ceremony for Prince Xiao Tong in the Taiji Palace.
In the past, it was stipulated that the prince should wear a crown of distant travel and a golden tassel of green cicadas; this time the emperor issued an order for the prince to wear a crown of Jinbo Mountain.
Xiao Tong was handsome and well behaved.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
读书数行并下，过目皆忆。
每游宴祖道，赋诗至十数韵。
或命作剧韵赋之，皆属思便成，无所点易。
高祖大弘佛教，亲自讲说；太子亦崇信三宝，遍览众经。
乃于宫内别立慧义殿，专为法集之所。招引名僧，谈论不绝。
太子自立三谛、法身义，并有新意。
普通元年四月，甘露降于慧义殿，咸以为至德所感焉。
三年十一月，始兴王憺薨。旧事，以东宫礼绝傍亲，书翰并依常仪。
太子意以为疑，命仆射刘孝绰议其事。孝绰议曰： 案张镜撰《东宫仪记》，称 三朝发哀者，逾月不举乐；鼓吹寝奏，服限亦然 。
translation: 
When reading, you can count the lines at a glance and be able to remember everything.
Every time there is a grand gathering of ancestral feasts, poems can be composed with dozens of rhymes.
Sometimes Emperor Wu of Liang asked him to compose dramatic rhyme poems, and he could always compose them with a little thought without any modification or modification.
Emperor Wu of Liang vigorously promoted Buddhism and personally explained Buddhist scriptures. Prince Xiao Tong also believed in the Three Jewels of Buddhism: Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, and read many Buddhist scriptures.
And the Huiyi Hall was built in the palace as a church to explain Buddhist doctrines. It attracted famous monks and often discussed and studied Buddhist scriptures together.
Xiao Tong himself also created the Two Truths Dharmakaya Sutra, which has his own unique insights.
In April of the first year of the ordinary year, nectar fell on the Huiyi Palace. Everyone thought it was the prince's virtue that moved heaven.
In November of the seventh year, Ding Guibi, the biological mother of Prince Xiao Tong, fell ill. He returned to Yongfu Province and stayed by the hospital bed day and night to observe the condition and did not even take off his clothes when sleeping.
Later, Ding Guifei died after ineffective treatment. Xiao Tong followed the team carrying the body back to the palace on foot. When his mother's body was placed in the coffin, he did not eat a morsel of food or drink a sip of water. He was so sad that he could hardly breathe when he cried.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
寻傍绝之义，义在去服，服虽可夺，情岂无悲？铙歌辍奏，良亦为此。
既有悲情，宜称兼慕，卒哭之后，依常举乐，称悲竟，此理例相符。
谓犹应称兼慕，至卒哭。
仆射徐勉、左率周舍、家令陆襄并同孝绰议。
太子令曰： 张镜《仪记》云 依《士礼》，终服月称慕悼 。又云 凡三朝发哀者，逾月不举乐 。
刘仆射议，云 傍绝之义，义在去服，服虽可夺，情岂无悲，卒哭之后，依常举乐，称悲竟，此理例相符 。寻情悲之说，非止卒哭之后，缘情为论，此自难一也。
用张镜之举乐，弃张镜之称悲，一镜之言，取舍有异，此自难二也。
太子明于庶事，纤毫必晓，每所奏有谬误及巧妄，皆即就辩析，示其可否，徐令改正，未尝弹纠一人。
translation: 
Emperor Wu of Liang sent Gu Xie, a member of Zhongshushe, to read out the imperial edict and said: During the period of mourning, the filial son's body will be weakened by reducing the amount of food due to sadness, but the filial son should not be allowed to starve to death because of this. This is the etiquette established by the saints.
"Book of Rites" says that due to excessive grief, a filial son becomes too weak or even dies, and cannot complete the three-year mourning mission, which is the same as not showing filial piety. I'm still alive, how could you ruin yourself like this! You should force yourself to eat and drink immediately.
Prince Xiao Tong ate a few hens of rice porridge after receiving the emperor's imperial edict.
From then until Ding Guifei was buried, she only ate one liter of rice porridge every day.
Emperor Wu of Liang issued another edict, saying, "I heard that you eat too little food every day, your body is very weak, and you are about to fall ill. Although I don't have other diseases, it is because of your current condition that I feel depressed and sick."
So you should force yourself to eat some thick porridge and don't let me worry about you all the time. But even though Xiao Tong received imperial edicts many times and no matter what the persuasion, he still insisted on eating only one rice porridge every day and not eating any vegetables, melons and fruits.
Xiao Tong's body has always been very strong. His belt used to be ten girth, but now he has lost more than half of his weight. Every time he entered the court, officials and civilians would burst into tears when they saw how thin he was.
Since the crowning ceremony of Prince Xiao Tong, Emperor Wu of Liang asked him to participate in national affairs. Memorials from various departments inside and outside the court were piled in front of him. Xiao Tong knew a lot of things among the people, and he would check out every detail. Every time he found that there were errors or omissions in the reported matters or that they were out of touch with the truth, he would analyze and identify them at the time, tell the people who reported them whether they were right or wrong, and let them gradually correct their mistakes. No one was impeached for this matter.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
平断法狱，多所全宥，天下皆称仁。
性宽和容众，喜愠不形于色。
引纳才学之士，赏爱无倦。
恒自讨论篇籍，或与学士商榷古今；闲则继以文章著述，率以为常。
于时东宫有书几三万卷，名才并集，文学之盛，晋、宋以来未之有也。
性爱山水，于玄圃穿筑，更立亭馆，与朝士名素者游其中。
尝泛舟后池，番禺侯轨盛称 此中宜奏女乐。
太子不答，咏左思《招隐诗》曰： 何必丝与竹，山水有清音。
侯惭而止。
出宫二十余年，不畜声乐。
少时，敕赐太乐女妓一部，略非所好。
translation: 
When sentencing prisoners and judging cases, he often pardoned and pardoned criminals, and the people praised him for his benevolence, justice and kindness.
Xiao Tong was generous by nature, friendly to others, got along well with others, and was very nurturing. He kept his emotions and sorrows deep in his heart and never showed them on his face.
Recruit people with real talents and knowledge, and highly respect and care for them, never getting tired of them.
He often studies knowledge by himself, and sometimes discusses the past or current events with some talented people. Whenever he has free time, he keeps writing poems and articles and develops a habit.
At that time, there were almost more than 30,000 volumes of books in the East Palace, and famous talents gathered there. Literary creation flourished, and there was a grand occasion unprecedented since the Jin and Song Dynasties.
Xiao Tong liked to travel in mountains and rivers. He dug and built pools in Xuanpu Garden, built stone mountains, and built pavilions and buildings. He often visited the garden with learned officials in the court or famous people in the garden to enjoy the scenery and recite poems and compose poems.
Once while rowing in the back pool of the Imperial Garden, Hou Gui of Panyu praised the elegant environment and beautiful scenery here, and said: It would be even more beautiful if there were more female musicians here.
Prince Xiao Tong did not answer his words, but just recited two sentences from Zuo Si's "Poem of Zhaoyin": Why bother with silk and bamboo? Landscapes have clear sounds.
Hou Gui felt very ashamed and said no more.
After leaving the palace for more than 20 years, she has never taken in any dancing prostitutes or singing girls.
When he was young, Emperor Wu of Liang issued an edict to give him a play called Tai Le Female Prostitute, but he didn't like it at all.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
普通中，大军北讨，京师谷贵，太子因命菲衣减膳，改常馔为小食。
每霖雨积雪，遣腹心左右，周行闾巷，视贫困家，有流离道路，密加振赐。
又出主衣绵帛，多作襦袴，冬月以施贫冻。
若死亡无可以敛者，为备棺槥。
每闻远近百姓赋役勤苦，辄敛容色。
常以户口未实，重于劳扰。
吴兴郡屡以水灾失收，有上言当漕大渎以泻浙江。
中大通二年春，诏遣前交州刺史王弁假节，发吴郡、吴兴、义兴三郡民丁就役。
臣意见庸浅，不识事宜，苟有愚心，愿得上启。 高祖优诏以喻焉。
太子孝谨天至，每入朝，未五鼓便守城门开。
translation: 
In ordinary years, the Liang Dynasty's army marched north to the Wei State, and the price of grain in the capital was very high. When Prince Xiao Tong saw this, he ordered to save food and clothing, and changed the original family banquet to an ordinary light meal.
Whenever it rains continuously or snows heavily, he will send his trusted ministers to go through the streets and alleys to check on poor families. If there are people who are homeless and living on the streets, he will often provide money and materials to help them.
He also donated the silk floss and fabrics he used to make his own robes to make short clothes and jackets, and gave them to the poor and cold in the cold winter months.
If someone dies and cannot be buried, the prince will buy a coffin for him.
As soon as he heard that people from far and near were overtaxed and worked too hard, he stopped smiling and became very unhappy.
He often feels uneasy because of the poverty and overwork of the people.
Wuxing County's agricultural harvests often failed due to river flooding. Someone wrote a letter suggesting building a large canal to discharge floodwaters from Zhejiang.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Wu of Liang issued an edict to send Wang Bianzhi Fujie, the former governor of Jiaozhou, to recruit migrant workers from Wujun, Wuxing and Yixing counties to dig the canal.
Prince Xiao Tong submitted a memorial, believing that it would disturb the people's agricultural work, and requested to suspend the corvee service. Emperor Wu of Liang issued a special edict to enlighten him.
The prince Xiao Tong was particularly cautious and filial. Every time he went to court, he would wait outside the city gate before the drum beat.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
东宫虽燕居内殿，一坐一起，恒向西南面台。宿被召当入，危坐达旦。
三年三月，寝疾。恐贻高祖忧，敕参问，辄自力手书启。
悬忠贞于日月，播鸿名于天地；惟小臣之纪言，实含毫而无愧。
呜呼哀哉！
太子仁德素著，及薨，朝野惋愕。
京师男女，奔走宫门，号泣满路。四方氓庶，及疆徼之民，闻丧皆恸哭。
所著文集二十卷；又撰古今典诰文言，为《正序》十卷；五言诗之善者，为《文章英华》二十卷；《文选》三十卷。
哀太子大器，字仁宗，太宗嫡长子也。
普通四年五月丁酉生。
中大通四年，封宣城郡王，食邑二千户。
寻为侍中、中卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
大同四年，授使持节、都督扬、徐二州诸军事、中军大将军、扬州刺史，侍中如故。
太清二年十月，侯景寇京邑，敕太子为台内大都督。
三年五月，太宗即位。
六月丁亥，立为皇太子。
大宝二年八月，贼景废太宗，将害太子，时贼党称景命召太子，太子方讲《老子》，将欲下床，而刑人掩至。
translation: 
Although the East Palace where the prince lives is inside the inner hall, he always faces the southwest whether he is sitting or standing. If he is summoned to go to court at night, he will half kneel and half sit until dawn.
In March of the third year, the prince was bedridden. He was afraid of worrying Emperor Wu of Liang. Every time Emperor Wu of Liang sent someone to ask questions about political affairs, he always wrote to the emperor himself.
On the sixth day of April, Xiao Tong died of illness at the age of thirty-one. Emperor Wu of Liang came to the East Palace in person, held the prince's coffin and cried loudly.
An edict was issued to bury Xiao Tong in gong robes and mian robes.
Everyone knew that the prince was benevolent and virtuous. After his death, both the government and the public felt regretful and shocked.
Men and women from the capital went to the crown prince's palace to pay their respects, and the streets were full of weeping people. People from all over the country and soldiers guarding the territory were very sad when they heard the news of his death.
He has written twenty volumes of collected works; he has also written ancient and modern imperial edicts; he has written ten volumes of "Preface"; his better five-character poems have been collected into twenty volumes of "Wen Yinghua"; and thirty volumes of "Selected Works".
Prince Ai, named Renzong, was the eldest son of Taizong.
Ding You is usually born in May of the fourth year.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he was granted the title of Prince of Xuancheng County and was granted a land of two thousand.
Soon he was appointed as Shizhong and General of Zhongwei, and was given the first group of drum music.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was appointed envoy Chijie, governor-general of Chao, Tu of the military affairs of the two states, general of the Chinese army, and governor of Chao, and he still served as a minister.
In October of the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing attacked the area where Kyoto was located, and Shao appointed Prince Shao as the governor of Taipei.
In May of the third year, Taizong ascended the throne as emperor.
On Dinghai Day in June, he was made the crown prince.
In August of the second year of Dashi, the traitor Hou Jing deposed Taizong and was about to kill the prince. At that time, the traitor's subordinates claimed that Hou Jing had ordered the prince to be summoned. The prince was studying "Laozi" and was about to get out of bed when the executioner quietly approached.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太子颜色不变，徐曰： 久知此事，嗟其晚耳。
刑者欲以衣带绞之。
太子曰： 此不能见杀。
乃指系帐竿下绳，命取绞之而绝，时年二十八。
太子性宽和，兼神用端嶷，在于贼手，每不屈意。
初，侯景西上，携太子同行，及其败归，部伍不复整肃，太子所乘船居后，不及贼众，左右心腹并劝因此入北。
太子曰： 家国丧败，志不图生；主上蒙尘，宁忍违离？
吾今逃匿，乃是叛父，非谓避贼。
便涕泗鸣咽，令即前进。
贼以太子有器度，每常惮之，恐为后患，故先及祸。
承圣元年四月，追谥哀太子。
愍怀太子方矩，字德规，世祖第四子也。
初封南安县侯，随世祖在荆镇。
太清初，为使持节、督湘、郢、桂、宁、成、合、罗七州诸军事、镇南将军、湘州刺史。
寻征为侍中、中卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
translation: 
The prince remained calm and said slowly: I knew something like this would happen a long time ago, but I still lament that it came too late.
The executioner wanted to hang him with his belt.
The prince said: You can't kill me even if you kill me.
He pointed to the rope under the bamboo poles that tied the tent and told them to take it and hang him to death. He was twenty-nine years old.
The prince was generous and easy-going by nature, coupled with his dignified and intelligent mental temperament. Under the control of traitors, he often showed an unyielding will.
At first, Hou Jing traveled westward and took the prince with him. When he returned from defeat, the troops were no longer orderly and serious, and the prince's boat was behind and could not catch up with the rebels. His confidants on the left and right advised him to go north for refuge.
The prince said: Now that my family and country have been destroyed, I don't want to survive. The Lord is in trouble, but I can't bear to take refuge.
If I run away now, it will be betraying my father, not avoiding a thief.
After saying this, he burst into tears and ordered to move forward immediately.
Because of the prince's courage and magnanimity, the traitor always feared him and worried about the trouble he would cause in the future, so he suffered first.
In April of the first year of Chengsheng's reign, he was given the title Prince Ai.
Prince Minghuai, Fang Ju, whose courtesy name was Degui, was the fourth son of Shizu.
At first, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nan'an County and followed Shizu to guard Jingcheng.
In the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, he served as envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of the seven states of Hunan, Ying, Guining and Chenghe, Luo, general Zhennan, and governor of Xiangzhou.
Soon he was recruited as a servant and general of the central guard, and he was given a set of drum music.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
世祖承制，拜王太子，改名元良。
承圣元年十一月丙子，立为皇太子。
及西魏师陷荆城，太子与世祖同为魏人所害。
太子聪颖，颇有世祖风，而凶暴猜忌。
敬帝承制，追谥愍怀太子。
陈吏部书姚察曰：孟轲有言： 鸡鸣而起，孳孳为善者，舜之徒也。
若乃布衣韦带之士，在于畎亩之中，终日为之，其利亦已博矣。
况乎处重明之位，居正体之尊，克念无怠，烝烝以孝。大舜之德，其何远之有哉！
translation: 
In accordance with the emperor's will, Shizu made him the prince and changed his name to Yuanliang.
On the 11th day of the 11th year of Chengsheng's reign, he was made the crown prince.
When the army of the Western Wei Dynasty captured Jingcheng, the prince and Shizu were killed by the Wei soldiers.
The prince is smart and enlightened, and has a demeanor that is worthy of the world, but he is fierce and jealous.
Jing Tong adhered to the emperor's will and added his nickname of Prince Mihuai.
Yao Cha, Chen's Minister of Civil Affairs, said: Meng Ke gets up when he hears something, and he who does good deeds diligently is a good student of Shun.
If an ordinary citizen works as a farmer in the fields and does farm work all day long, the benefits he brings are numerous.
What's more, if the prince is in an important and prominent position and occupies an orthodox and respectable position, if he can restrain his heart and be honest and filial like Zhaoming, then how far will it be to have the virtues of Shun?


