Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝武皇帝六男。
卫皇后生戾太子，赵婕妤生孝昭帝，王夫人生齐怀王闳，李姬生燕刺王旦、广陵厉王胥，李夫人生昌邑哀王髆。
戾太子据，元狩元年立为皇太子，年七岁矣。
初，上年二十九乃得太子，甚喜，为立禖，使东方朔、枚皋作禖祝。
少壮，诏受《公羊春秋》，又从瑕丘江公受《谷梁》。
及冠就宫，上为立博望苑，使通宾客，从其所好，故多以异端进者。
元鼎四年，纳史良娣，产子男进，号曰史皇孙。
武帝末，卫后宠衰，江充用事，充与太子及卫氏有隙，恐上晏驾后为太子所诛，会巫蛊事起，充因此为奸。
是时，上春秋高，意多所恶，以为左右皆为蛊道祝诅，穷治其事。
丞相公孙贺父子，阳石、诸邑公主，及皇后弟子长平侯卫伉皆坐诛。
语在《公孙贺》、《江充传》。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu had six sons.
Queen Wei gave birth to Prince Ru, Zao Jieyu gave birth to Emperor Xiaozhao, Mrs. Wang gave birth to King Huai of Qi Liu Hong, Li Ji gave birth to King Liu Dan of Yanla, King Li of Guangling Liu Xu, and Mrs. Li gave birth to King Ai Liu of Changyi.
The ruthless prince Liu Ju was established as the crown prince in the first year of Yuanshou. He was seven years old at that time.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was only 29 years old and he was the crown prince. He was very happy and built a Plum Temple for this purpose. He ordered Dongfang Shuo and Meigao to write congratulations to worship the Plum God.
When the prince grew up, he was ordered to study "Gongyang Chunqiu" and "Gu Liang Chunqiu" from Duke Xiaqiu Jiang.
When he was twenty years old, he was crowned and lived in the Tai Palace. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty built Bowang Garden for him, allowing him to interact with guests and act according to his interests. As a result, many heresies came to him as tribute.
In the fourth year of Yuanding's reign, he married Shi Liangdi and gave birth to his son Liu Jin, who was called the grandson of Emperor Shi.
In the later years of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the imperial guard fell out of favor and Jiang Chong was reused. Jiang Chong had grudges against the prince and the Wei family, and was worried that the prince would execute him after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. At this time, a witchcraft case occurred, and Jiang Chong took advantage of this to seek personal revenge.
At that time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was already old and tired of things. He suspected that everyone around him was guilty of curses and poisons, and issued an edict to investigate the matter severely.
Prime Minister Gongsun He and his son, the princesses of Yangshi and Zhuyi, and the Queen's brother's son Changping Houwei and his wife were all implicated and killed.
All these are recorded in "The Biography of Gongsun He" and "The Biography of Jiang Chong".


Chunk 1: 
original: 
充典治巫蛊，既知上意，白言宫中有蛊气，入宫至省中，坏御座掘地。
上使按道侯韩说、御史章赣、黄门苏文等助充。
充遂至太子宫掘蛊，得桐木人。
时上疾，辟暑甘泉宫，独皇后、太子在。
太子召问少傅石德，德惧为师傅并诛，因谓太子曰： 前丞相父子、两公主及卫氏皆坐此，今巫与使者掘地得征验，不知巫置之邪，将实有也，无以自明，可矫以节收捕充等系狱，穷治其奸诈。
且上疾在甘泉，皇后及家吏请问皆不报，上存亡未可知，而奸臣如此，太子将不念秦扶苏事耶？
太子急，然德言。
征和二年七月壬午，乃使客为使者收捕充等。
按道侯说疑使者有诈，不肯受诏，客格杀说。
御史章赣被创突亡。自归甘泉。
太子使舍人无且持节夜入未央宫殿长秋门，因长御倚华具白皇后，发中厩车载射士，出武库兵，发长乐宫卫，告令百官日江充反。乃斩充以徇，炙胡巫上林中。
遂部宾客为将率，与丞相刘屈氂等战。
长安中扰乱，言太子反，以故众不附。
太子兵败，亡，不得。
上怒甚，群下忧惧，不知所出。
translation: 
Jiang Chong was responsible for investigating the witchcraft case. He already knew the emperor's mood, so he told the emperor that there was a poisonous atmosphere in the palace. He entered the palace and went to the emperor's residence, demolished the throne and dug up the ground.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Hou Hanshuo, Yushi Zhanggan, Huangmen Suwen and others to assist Jiang Chong.
Jiang Chong went to the prince's palace to dig for poisonous things and found a little figure carved from paulownia wood.
At that time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was ill and went to Ganquan Palace to escape the summer heat. Only the queen and the prince were in the palace.
The prince summoned his young master Shi De and asked him what he should do about this matter. Shi De was afraid that he would be executed together because he was the master, so he said to the prince: Before this, the prime minister and his son, the two princesses, and the Wei family were all implicated and punished. Now the witch and the officials who came to investigate the matter dug up the ground and found the evidence. We don't know if the witch put it there intentionally, or if it was really there. We can't explain it ourselves. We can pretend to be an imperial edict and use talismans to arrest Jiang Chong and others in jail, and trace out their treacherous conspiracy.
Besides, the emperor is recuperating in Ganquan Palace, and the greetings from the queen and the prince's staff have not been answered. The emperor's life or death is unknown. And now that a traitor has done such a thing, prince, don't you remember the murder of Prince Fusu of the Qin Dynasty?
The prince was very anxious and accepted Shi De's opinion.
On Renwu day in the seventh month of the second year of Zhenghe, the prince sent a retainer to pretend to be a messenger and arrest Jiang Chong and others.
According to Dao Hou Han Shuo, he suspected that the envoy was deceitful and refused to obey the edict, so the retainers killed Han Shuo.
Yushi Zhanggan escaped after being chopped and ran back to Ganquan Palace.
The prince ordered his family to be abandoned and entered the Changqiu Gate of the Weiyang Palace overnight with the talisman. He reported it to the queen through Changyu Yihua, sent a carriage wrapped in the middle stable to load the archers, moved the weapons from the arsenal, dispatched the Changle Palace guards, declared to the civil and military officials that Jiang Chong was rebelling, and then killed Jiang Chong to patrol the government and the public, and burned the barbarian shaman to death in Shanglin Garden.
Then he deployed the guests as generals to fight against the army of Prime Minister Liu Quli and others.
There was great chaos in Chang'an City, and there were rumors that the prince was rebelling, so the people refused to join the prince.
The prince's army was defeated and he fled without being caught.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was furious, and his officials were worried and didn't know what to do.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
壶关三老茂上书曰： 臣闻父者犹天，母者犹地，子犹万物也。
故天平地安，阴阳和调，物乃茂成；父慈母爱，室家之中子乃孝顺。
阴阳不和，则万物夭伤；父子不和，则室家丧亡。
故父不父则子不子，君不君则臣不臣，虽有粟，吾岂得而食诸！
昔者虞舜，孝之至也，而不中于瞽叟；孝已被谤，伯奇放流，骨肉至亲，父子相疑。
何者？
积毁之所生也。
由是观之，子无不孝，而父有不察，今皇太子为汉适嗣，承万世之业，体祖宗之重，亲则皇帝之宗子也。
江充，布衣之人，闾阎之隶臣耳，陛下显而用之，衔至尊之命以迫蹴皇太子，造饰奸诈，群邪错谬，是以亲戚之路隔塞而不通。
translation: 
A Huguan elder named Mao wrote a letter saying: Sir, I heard that father is like the sky, mother is like the earth, and children are like all things in the world.
Therefore, if the balance of the heaven and earth is peaceful and the yin and yang are harmonious, all things can flourish and grow; if a father is kind and the mother is loving, within the family, the children will be filial.
If Yin and Yang are not in harmony, all things will be injured and die prematurely; if father and son are not in harmony, the family will be in disarray and die.
Therefore, if the father is not like the father, the son will not be like the son; if the king is not like the king, the subjects will not be like the subjects. Even if there is food, can we eat it?
In ancient times, Yu Shun was the most filial person, but he did not please his father Gusou. His filial piety was slandered, and Boqi was exiled. Although they were the closest relatives, father and son were suspicious of each other.
Why is this?
It is caused by the accumulation of more and more slander.
From this point of view, no son is unfilial, but fathers are sometimes unaware. The current crown prince is the direct heir of the Han Dynasty, inheriting the legacy of thousands of generations, and feeling the weight of the creation of his ancestors. In terms of kinship, he is your eldest son.
Jiang Chong is just a commoner, a lowly official in the countryside. Your Majesty allows him to be prominent and put him in important positions. He passes your supreme orders to persecute and embarrass the crown prince. He forges to cover up his evil deeds and deceit. He is a bunch of villains who confuse right and wrong, causing a gap between relatives and preventing them from communicating.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
太子进则不得上见，退则困于乱臣，独冤结而亡告，不忍忿忿之心，起而杀充，恐惧逋逃，子盗父兵以救难自免耳，臣窃以为无邪心。
《诗》曰： 营营青蝇，止于藩；恺悌君子，无信谗言；谗言罔极，交乱四国。
往者江充谗杀赵太子，天下莫不闻，其罪固宜。
陛下不省察，深过太子，发盛怒，举大兵而求之，三公自将，智者不敢言，辩士不敢说，臣窃痛之。
臣闻子胥尽忠而忘其号，比干尽仁而遗其身，忠臣竭诚不顾斧钺之诛以陈其愚，志在匡君安社稷也。
《诗》云： 取彼谮人，投畀豺虎。 唯陛下宽心慰意，少察所亲，毋患太子之非，亟罢甲兵，无令太子久亡。
臣不胜惓惓，出一旦之命，待罪建章阙下。
translation: 
The prince came forward to express his gratitude but was not received by the emperor. He retreated and defended himself and was besieged by the rebellious ministers. Because he had been wronged and had nowhere to appeal, he could not bear the grief and anger, so he raised an army to kill Jiang Chong. Afterwards, he was frightened and fled out. This was just the son secretly using his father's troops to solve problems and save himself. I privately believe that the prince has no evil intentions.
"The Book of Songs" says: The black flies flying around are covered with fences; a gentle and kind-hearted gentleman should not listen to simple words; endless slanders will cause chaos and unrest in neighboring countries.
In the past, Jiang Chongjin slandered and killed the crown prince of King Zhao. Everyone in the world knew that he should have been killed.
Now, without understanding the truth, His Majesty thought that the Crown Prince had made a mistake and severely blamed him. He was so angry that he sent a large army to capture the Crown Prince. My lord, I secretly feel sad for this.
I heard that Wu Zixu lost his title for being loyal, Bigan sacrificed himself for being benevolent, and the loyal ministers were loyal and expressed their opinions regardless of the sword or ax on their necks. Their purpose was to help the king stabilize the country.
The Book of Songs says: Catch those bad guys who are slandering and throw them to the wolves, tigers and leopards. I hope your majesty will feel relieved and appreciate the relationship between father and son a little. Don't worry about the prince's mistakes, withdraw your troops quickly, and don't let the prince live in exile for a long time.
Your Majesty, I am very sincere. Once the king's order is issued, I will be punished respectfully under the Jianzhang Gate.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
书奏，天子感寤。
太子之亡也，东至湖，臧匿泉鸠里。
主人家贫，常卖屦以给太子。
太子有故人在湖，闻其富赡，使人呼之而发觉。
吏围捕太子，太子自度不得脱，即入室距户自经。
山阳男子张富昌为卒，足蹋开户，新安令史李寿趋抱解太子，主人公遂格斗死，皇孙二人皆并遇害。
上既伤太子，乃下诏曰： 盖行疑赏，所以申信也。
其封李寿为邘侯，张富昌为题侯。
久之，巫蛊事多不信。
上知太子惶恐无他意，而车千秋复讼太子冤，上遂擢千秋为丞相，而族灭江充家，焚苏文于横桥上，及泉鸠里加兵刃于太子者，初为北地太守，后族。
上怜太子无辜，乃作思子宫，为归来望思之台于湖。
天下闻而悲之。
初，太子有三男一女，女者平舆侯嗣子尚焉。
及太子败，皆同时遇害。
translation: 
After reading the letter, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was moved and woke up.
The prince fled eastward to Hu County and hid in a common people's house in Quanjiu.
The family was poor and often sold shoes to support the prince.
The prince had an old friend living in Hu County. Hearing that he was wealthy, he sent someone to call him, and he was discovered.
The local officials brought people to round up the prince. The prince thought that he could not escape, so he went into the house, closed the door and hanged himself.
Zhang Fuchang, a big man from Shanyang County, was a soldier. He kicked the door open. Shi Lishou, the magistrate of Xin'an County, hurriedly stepped forward to untie the prince and hug him. The owner of the house fought with the soldiers and died, and the two royal grandchildren were killed together.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was already sad about the death of the prince, but he still issued a Shao Shu saying: "The promised reward is to prove our faith."
Li Shou was granted the title of Marquis of Han, and Zhang Fuchang was granted the title of Marquis of Ti.
After a long time, most of the stories about witchcraft harming people were untrue.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty knew that the prince was just scared and ran away, and had no other intentions. In addition, Che Qianqiu once again appealed for the prince's grievances. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty promoted Che Qianqiu to the rank of prime minister, and then executed Jiang Chong's entire family.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was saddened that the prince had died innocently, so he built the Palace of Thoughts and a Tower for Returning and Watching Thoughts upon Return in Hu County.
Everyone in the world felt sad after hearing about it.
At the beginning, the prince had three sons and one daughter. The daughter was married to the son of Chengsi of Marquis Pingyu.
When the prince failed, they were all killed at the same time.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
卫后、史良悌葬长安城南。
史皇孙、皇孙妃王夫人及皇女孙葬广明。
皇孙二人随太子者，与太子并葬湖。
太子有遗孙一人，史皇孙子，王夫人男，年十八即尊位，是为孝宣帝，帝初即位，下诏曰： 故皇太子在湖，未有号谥，岁时祠，其议谥，置园邑。
有司奏请； 《礼》 为人后者，为之子也 ，故降其父母不得祭，尊祖之义也。
陛下为孝昭帝后，承祖宗之祀，制礼不逾闲。
谨行视孝昭帝所为故皇太子起位在湖，史良娣冢在博望苑北，亲史皇孙位在广明郭北。
谥法曰 谥者，行之迹也 ，愚以为亲谥宜曰悼，母曰悼后，比诸侯王国，置奉邑三百家。
故皇太子谥曰戾，置奉邑二百家。
史良娣曰戾夫人，置守冢三十家。
园置长丞，周卫奉守如法。
以湖阌乡邪里聚为戾园，长安白亭东为戾后园，广明成乡为悼园。
皆改葬焉。
后八岁，有司复言： 《礼》 父为士，子为天子，祭以天子 。
悼园宜称尊号曰皇考，立庙，因园为寝，以时荐享焉。
益奉园民满千六百家，以为奉明县。
尊戾夫人曰戾后，置园奉邑，及益戾园各满三百家。
齐怀王闳与燕王旦、广陵王胥同日立，皆赐策，各以国土风俗申戒焉，曰： 惟元狩六年四月乙巳，皇帝使御史大夫汤庙立子闳为齐王，曰： 乌呼！
小子闳，受兹青社。
translation: 
Empress Wei and Shi Liangdi were buried in the south of Chang'an City after their deaths.
His grandson, his concubine, his wife, and his granddaughter were buried in Guangmingyuan.
The two grandsons who fled with the prince were buried in Hu County with the prince.
The prince had a grandson who survived, and he was the son of Emperor Shi and Mrs. Wang. When he was eighteen years old, he inherited the throne and became Emperor Mo Xiaoxuan. As soon as Emperor Xiaoxuan came to power, he issued an edict saying: The former crown prince is buried in Hu County. There is no Mi name and a temple to hold sacrifices throughout the year. It is necessary to decide on the Mi name, build a cemetery and arrange for the households to guard the tomb.
Relevant officials petitioned and said: According to etiquette and law, if you become someone else's heir, you must be someone else's son. Therefore, your biological parents were demoted and condescended to enjoy no sacrifices. This was out of respect for their ancestors.
Your Majesty is the successor of Emperor Xiaozhao. He must inherit the great sacrifices to his ancestors and the etiquette must not go beyond the limits.
You must act respectfully and in accordance with Emperor Xiaozhao's decision: the former crown prince's mausoleum will be built in Hu County, Shi Liangdi's mausoleum will be built in the north of Bowang Garden, and the mausoleum of your father Shi Huang's grandson will be built in the north of the Guangming Garden wall.
According to the Mi method, Mi is an actual assessment of the behavior during life. I think your biological father's Mi name can be used as a mourning, and your biological mother can be mourned. After that, a cemetery will be built according to the specifications of the princes and kings, and three hundred households will be allocated with the land for worship.
The former crown prince Mi's nickname was Ru, and he was assigned 200 households to enshrine the land.
Shi Liangdi was Mrs. Ru, and she was assigned thirty families to guard the tomb.
The cemetery is set up with official positions such as chief and chief to protect, worship and protect the surrounding area according to the regulations.
Therefore, Xieliju, Quexiang, Hu County, was designated as the Violent Garden, the area east of Baiting in Chang'an County was designated as the Violent Houyuan, and Chengxiang in Guangmingyuan was designated as the Mourning Garden.
Mausoleums were built and buried.
Eight years later, the relevant officials said: "Li" records that the father is a scholar. If the son becomes the emperor, the father must also perform sacrifices according to the emperor's standards.
The mourning king should be honored as Huang Kao, build an ancestral temple, build a dormitory hall on the basis of the cemetery, and offer sacrifices and enjoyment here on time.
The number of households dedicated to the mausoleum reached 1,600, and Fengming County was established here.
Mrs. Li was respected as Queen Li, and a cemetery and a land for worship were set up. It was also necessary to increase the number of households in Liyuan and Lihouyuan, each with a total of 300 households.
King Huai of Qi Liu Hong, King Liu Dan of Yan, and King Liu Xu of Guangling were canonized on the same day. They were all given policy books. Taking into account the different folk customs of each fiefdom, they made separate admonitions and admonishments, saying: On Yisi day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, the emperor sent Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, to consecrate the prince Liu Hong as the king of Qi in the temple. The book said: Woohoo!
Less than Liu Hong, he accepted the green social soil.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
朕承天序，惟稽古，建尔国家，封于东土，世为汉藩辅。
乌呼！
念哉，共朕之诏。
惟命于不常，人之好德，克明显光；义之不图，俾君子怠。
悉尔心，允执其中，天禄永终；厥有愆不臧，乃凶于乃国，而害于尔躬。呜呼！
保国乂民，可不敬与！
王其戒之！
闳母王夫人有宠，闳尤爱幸，立八年，薨，无子，国除。
燕刺王旦赐策曰： 呜呼！
小子旦，受兹玄社，建尔国家，封于北土，世为汉藩辅。
呜呼！
薰鬻氏虐老兽心，以奸巧边甿。
朕命将率，租征厥罪。
万夫长、千夫长，三十有二帅，降旗奔师。
薰鬻徙域，北州以妥。
悉尔心，毋作怨，毋作棐德，毋乃废备。
非教士不得从征。
王其戒之！
translation: 
In accordance with the order arranged by the Emperor of Heaven, and with reference to the ancient system, I established your country, established it in the east, and served as a barrier and auxiliary wing of the Han Dynasty from generation to generation.
Alas!
Remember, please listen to my edict.
Destiny is fickle, and a person's love for benevolence can make him smart and brilliant; if he does not pursue benevolence and righteousness, it will make a gentleman slack.
If you wholeheartedly adhere to the virtues of being righteous and tolerant, you will be able to preserve the blessings given to you by the Emperor of Heaven forever; if you commit sins and behave badly, disaster will befall your kingdom and yourself. Alas!
To protect the country and govern the people, can we not be cautious?
You, the king, need to be vigilant!
Liu Hong's mother, Mrs. Wang, was favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. Liu Hong was especially favored by Emperor Wu. Eight years after becoming king, he died without a son and the feudal state was abolished.
The policy letter to Liu Dan, King of Yanla, said: Woohoo!
Little Liu Dan, accept this black soil, build your country, seal it in the north, and serve as a barrier and auxiliary wing of the Han Dynasty for generations.
Alas!
The Xunhuan family mistreats the elderly, has a heart like an animal, and uses cunning and cunning to conquer hundreds of thousands of people on the border.
I ordered the generals to go and punish them for the crimes they committed.
The commanders of tens of thousands, the commanders of thousands, and the thirty-two military commanders all stopped their troops and rushed to surrender to us.
Xunhuan migrated to other places, and my northern region was peaceful.
You must be whole-hearted, do not create any grudges, do not do immoral things, and do not weaken border defenses.
Soldiers who have not received training are not allowed to be called into battle.
You, the king, need to be vigilant!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
旦壮大就国，为人辩略，博学经书、杂说，好星历、数术、倡优、射猎之事，招致游士。
及卫太子败，齐怀王又薨，旦自以次第当立，上书求入宿卫。
上怒，下其使狱。
后坐臧匿亡命，削良乡、安次、文安三县。
武帝由是恶旦，后遂立少子为太子。
帝崩，太子立，是为孝昭帝，赐诸侯王玺书。
旦得书，不肯哭，曰： 玺书封小。京师疑有变。
遣幸臣寿西长、孙纵之、王孺等之长安，以问礼仪为名。
王孺见执金吾广意，问： 帝崩所病？立者谁子？年几岁？
广意言： 待诏五莋宫，宫中讠雚言帝崩，诸将军共立太子为帝，年八九岁，葬时不出临。
归以报王。
王曰： 上弃群臣，无语言，盖主又不得见，甚可怪也。
复遣中大夫至京师上书言： 窃见孝武皇帝躬圣道，孝宗庙，慈爱骨肉，和集兆民，德配天地，明并日月，威武洋溢，远方执宝而朝，增郡数十，斥地且倍，封泰山，禅梁父，巡狩天下，远方珍物陈于太庙，德甚休盛，请立庙郡国。
奏报闻。
时大将军霍光秉政，褒赐燕王钱三千万，益封万三千户。
旦怒曰： 我当为帝，何赐也！
遂与宗室中山哀王子刘长、齐孝王孙刘泽等结谋，诈言以武帝时受诏，得职吏事，修武备，备非常。
translation: 
When Liu Dan grew up, he came to the feudal state. He was an eloquent person, studied classics and various schools of thought extensively, and was fond of astrology, calendars, mathematics, advocating leisure travel, archery and hunting, etc., and attracted knights and warriors.
When Prince Wei was defeated and King Huai of Qi died again, Liu Dan thought that he should be made the crown prince according to the ranking of his brothers, so he wrote a letter requesting to return to Beijing to stay in the palace.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was angry and imprisoned the envoy he sent to write the letter.
Later, because of harboring fugitives, his fiefdom was cut off from Liangxiang, Anci, and Wen'an counties.
From then on, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty disliked Liu Dan, and later made his youngest son the prince.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty died, the prince succeeded to the throne and was named Emperor Xiaozhao. He issued letters stamped with jade seals to various princes and kings.
When Liu Dan received the letter, he refused to mourn. He said: The envelope containing the seal is small. I suspect there has been a change in the capital.
He sent his cronies Shou Xichang, Sun Zongzhi, Wang Ru and others to Chang'an to inquire about the news in the name of asking about etiquette.
Wang Ru went to see Jinwu Guo Guangyi and asked what kind of illness the emperor had when he died, who succeeded him and how old he was.
Guo Guangyi said that at that time, he was waiting for the emperor's edict in Wuzha Palace. People in the palace were clamoring that the emperor had died. The generals supported the prince as emperor. The prince was about eight or nine years old and would not leave the palace during the funeral.
Wang Ru and others came back and reported to King Yanla.
King Yanla said: "The emperor abandoned his ministers and left without saying anything. The eldest princess of Gaiyi was not seen. It's very strange."
Then he sent a senior official to Chang'an, the capital, to write a letter saying: I privately saw Emperor Xiaowu practicing the way of a sage. He was filial to his ancestors and loving to his relatives. He harmoniously united his subjects and billions of people. His benevolence united the heaven and earth. The sun and the moon shined brightly. Might permeated the world. Countries from far away offered treasures. Come to worship, add dozens of counties and counties, nearly double the territory, offer sacrifices to Mount Tai, worship Father Liang, travel around the world, and place treasures and foreign objects from far away in the Ancestral Temple. His benevolence is so majestic and grand. I request that temples be built for Emperor Xiaowu in every county.
The memorial was submitted and reported back that the emperor had read it.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was in charge of the government and rewarded King Yan with 30 million yuan and increased the number of 13,000 households in the fiefdom.
Liu Dan said angrily: I should be the emperor, how can you reward me!
So he formed a conspiracy with Liu Chang, the son of King Ai of Zhongshan, and Liu Ze, the grandson of King Xiao of Qi, and others in the clan. They lied that they had received an edict from Emperor Wu and could take charge of local administration, build military preparedness, and prepare for extraordinary incidents.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
长于是为旦命令群臣曰： 寡人赖先帝休德，获奉北藩，亲受明诏，职吏事，领库兵，饬武备，任重职大，夙夜兢兢，子大夫将何以规佐寡人？
且燕国虽小，成周之建国也，上自召公，下及昭、襄，于今千载，岂可谓无贤哉？
寡人束带听朝三十余年，曾无闻焉。
其者寡人之不及与？
意亦子大夫之思有所不至乎？
其咎安在？
方今寡人欲挢邪防非，章闻扬和，抚慰百姓，移风易俗，厥路何由？
子大夫其各悉心以对，寡人将察焉。
群臣皆免冠谢。
郎中成轸谓旦曰： 大王失职，独可起而索，不可坐而得也。
大王一起，国中虽女子皆奋臂随大王。
旦曰： 前高后时，伪立子弘为皇帝，诸侯交手事之八年。
translation: 
Liu Chang then issued an order to the ministers on behalf of Liu Dan: "I relied on the virtue of the late emperor to lead the northern vassal country. I personally accepted the wise edict. I have to take charge of local administration, command the arsenal and weapons, organize the military equipment. I have important responsibilities and work hard from morning to night. How will you, the officials, assist me with advice?"
Furthermore, although the Yan State was small, it was founded in the Zhou Dynasty. The first was Zhao Gongxi, and the second was King Zhao and Xiang of the Six Kingdoms period. It has been a thousand years, how can we say that there are no wise men in the Yan Kingdom?
It has been more than 30 years since I took charge of the government and listened to the government, but I haven't heard anything yet.
Is it because I have poor hearing and vision?
Or is it that the doctors’ thinking is insufficient?
What's the mistake?
Now I want to correct evil and prevent bad behavior, commend knowledge and promote gentleness, appease the people, and change customs. Where should I start?
Doctors, please answer with all your heart, I will consider and adopt your suggestions.
All the ministers took off their hats and thanked him.
Cheng Zhen, the doctor, said to Liu Dan: Your Majesty, you have lost the status you deserve. Now you can only get up and claim it, not sit back and wait.
As long as the king joins the army, the people, subjects, and even women in the country will move forward and follow the king.
Liu Dan said: In the past, when Empress Lu was in power, she made Liu Hong, the son of Emperor Hui, the emperor through deception, and the princes and kings served him for eight years.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
吕太后崩，大臣诛诸吕，迎立文帝，天下乃知非孝惠子也。
我亲武帝长子，反不得立，上书请立庙，又不听。
立者疑非刘氏。
即与刘泽谋为奸书，言少帝非武帝子，大臣所共立，天下宜共伐之。
使人传行郡国，以摇动百姓。
泽谋归发兵临淄，与燕王俱起。
旦遂招来郡国奸人，赋敛铜铁作甲兵，数阅其车骑材官卒，建旌旗鼓车，旄头先驱，郎中侍从者着貂羽，黄金附蝉，皆号侍中。
旦从相、中尉以下，勒车骑，发民会围，大猎文安县，以讲士马，须期日。
郎中韩义等数谏旦，旦杀义等凡十五人。
会缶并侯刘成知泽等谋，告之青州刺史隽不疑，不疑收捕泽以闻。
天子遣大鸿胪丞治，连引燕王。
有诏勿治，而刘泽等伏诛。
益封缶并侯。
translation: 
Later, Empress Dowager Lu died, and the ministers killed all the kings of the Lu family and ushered in Emperor Xiaowen of the Han Dynasty. Only then did the world know that Liu Hong was not the true son of Emperor Xiaohui.
As the eldest son of Emperor Wu, I was not able to be established as emperor. I wrote a letter suggesting building a temple for Emperor Wu, but it was not accepted.
I doubt that the current emperor is from the Liu family.
He then planned with Liu Ze and others to write a proclamation of fraud and slander, claiming that the young emperor was not the son of Emperor Xiaowu, but was a forgery planned by some ministers, and that the people of the world would rise up to attack him.
Send people to spread the news to all counties and counties to shake the people's hearing and hearing.
Liu Ze planned to return to Linzi to send troops and launch an uprising together with King Yan.
Liu Dan immediately took action to recruit local evil people, collected copper and iron to make armor and weapons, drilled chariots and cavalry officers and soldiers many times, built flag and drum chariots, and used the horse-headed knight as the pioneer.
Liu Dan, an official from prime minister to lieutenant, supervised the chariots, cavalry and horses, mobilized the people to gather and set up paddocks, and conducted large-scale hunting in Wen'an County to train soldiers and horses and wait for the arrival of the uprising.
The doctor Han Yi and others repeatedly tried to stop Liu Dan, but Liu Dan killed Han Yi and fifteen others in total.
At this time, Liu Cheng, the Marquis of Fu, learned of the plot of Liu Ze and others, and reported it to Jun Buyi, the governor of Qingzhou, who arrested Liu Ze and reported it to the court.
The emperor sent Da Honglucheng to review the matter, which implicated King Yan.
The edict did not punish King Yan, but put Liu Ze and others to death.
Liu Cheng, the marquis of Fu, was granted the title.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
久之，旦姊鄂邑盖长公主、左将军上官桀父子与霍光争权有隙，皆知旦怨光，即私与燕交通。
旦遣孙纵之等前后十余辈，多赍金宝走马，赂遗盖主。
上官桀及御史大夫桑弘羊等皆与交通，数记疏光过失与旦，令上书告之。
桀欲从中下其章。
旦闻之，喜，上疏曰： 昔秦据南面之位，制一世之命，威服四夷，轻弱骨肉，显重异族，废道任刑，无恩宗室。
其后尉佗入南夷，陈涉呼楚泽，近狎作乱，内外俱发，赵氏无炊火焉。
高皇帝览踪迹，观得失，见秦建本非是，故改其路，规土连城，布王子孙，是以支叶扶疏，异姓不得间也。
今陛下承明继成，委任公卿，群臣连与成朋，非毁宗室，肤受之诉，日骋于廷，恶吏废法立威，主恩不及下究。
臣闻武帝使中郎将苏武使匈奴，见留二十年不降，还亶为典属国。
translation: 
After a long time, Liu Dan's sister Eyigai Princess, Zuo General Shangguan Jie and his son had a feud with Huo Guang because of the struggle for power. They all knew that Liu Dan resented Huo Guang, so they secretly formed a relationship with the Yan State.
Liu Dan sent Sun Zongzhi and other more than ten groups of people to bring a lot of gold, silver, treasures and horses as gifts to Princess Gai.
Shangguan Jie and the imperial censor Sang Hongyang colluded with Liu Dan. They wrote down Huo Guang's faults many times and told Liu Dan, asking him to report Huo Guang to the emperor.
Shangguan Jie wanted to send his memorial to all the officials from the palace.
Liu Dan was very happy when he heard about it, so he went to the bookstore and said: In the past, King Qin Zheng seized the throne of the emperor, controlled the order of a generation, and intimidated all the nations. However, he despised and weakened his close relatives, relied on foreign people and foreign surnames for glory, abandoned the royal way and liked to use punishment, and did not take care of the interests of the clan.
Later, Wei Tuo went to Nanyi to proclaim himself king, and Chen She roared in rebellion in Daze Township, Chu Land. People close to him also took the opportunity to cause trouble, and both internal and external forces launched an uprising. The Qin Dynasty was destroyed.
Emperor Gaozu looked over the course of the Qin Dynasty's demise, observed its successes and failures, and saw that the establishment of the Qin Dynasty was fundamentally wrong, so he corrected its path, planned the land and built cities together, and spread his descendants to become kings everywhere.
Now His Majesty has inherited the legacy of Shengming and appointed ministers to take charge of the affairs of the state. However, the officials formed cliques and slandered the clan. Rumors filled the court every day. Vicious officials violated the law and exercised arbitrary power, so that the emperor's favor could not truly benefit the people below.
I heard that during the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, he sent Zhonglang General Su Wu to the Xiongnu. He was detained for twenty years and refused to surrender. After returning, he was only granted the title of Dian vassal state.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今大将军长史敞无劳，为搜粟都尉。
又将军都郎羽林，道上移跸，太官先置。
臣旦愿归符玺，入宿卫，察奸臣之变。
是时，昭帝年十四，觉其有诈，遂亲信霍光，而疏上官桀等。
桀等因谋共杀光，废帝，迎立燕王为天子。
旦置驿书，往来相报，许立桀为王，外连郡国豪杰以千数。
旦以语相平，平曰： 大王前与刘泽结谋，事未成而发觉者，以刘泽素夸，好侵陵也。
平闻左将军素轻易，车骑将军少而骄，臣恐其如刘泽时不能成，又恐既成，反大王也。
旦曰： 前日一男子诣阙，自谓故太子，长安中民趣乡之，正讠雚不可止，大将军恐，出兵陈之，以自备耳。
我帝长子，天下所信，何忧见反？
后谓群臣： 盖主报言，独患大将军与右将军王莽。
今右将军物故，丞相病，幸事必成，征不久。
令群臣皆装。
translation: 
Now the general's chief historian, Yang Chang, has no merit, but he is named the captain of Sosu.
Also, when the general was meeting with the Yulin imperial army, he actually used the emperor's etiquette to call on pedestrians on the road to stop and avoid, and sent eunuchs to wait on him in advance.
For this reason, my minister Liu Dan is willing to return the talisman seal he received and return to the court to stay in the palace to protect His Majesty in order to prevent the treacherous minister's conspiracy.
Emperor Zhao was fourteen years old at this time. He realized that King Yan was deceitful, so he trusted Huo Guang closely and alienated Shangguan Jie and others.
Shangguan Jie and others therefore planned to kill Huo Guang, depose Emperor Zhao, and make King Yan the emperor.
Liu Dan sent people to deliver letters at high speed, and responded to each other, promising to make Shangguan Jie king in the future, and to contact thousands of heroes from various counties and counties.
Liu Dan told Yan Xiangping this, and Ping said: Your Majesty conspired with Liu Ze before, but the matter was discovered before it was successful, because Liu Ze has always boasted, liked to bully others, and caused trouble.
I heard that Shangguan Jie, the general of the left, has always been rash, and Shangguan An, the general of chariots and cavalry, is young and arrogant. I am worried that they may not succeed like Liu Ze did, and I am worried that if they succeed, they will turn against the king.
Liu Dan said: A few days ago, a man went to the court and claimed to be the former prince. The people in Chang'an City rushed to see and greet him. At a time when there was a lot of excitement and excitement, and it was difficult to control the situation, the general became afraid and sent troops to set up a warning for self-defense.
I am the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu, and I am trusted by the people and subjects of the world. Why should I worry about being opposed by others?
Later he told the officials: Princess Gai Zhou wrote that she was only afraid of the general and the right general Wang Mang.
Now that the general on the right is dead and the prime minister is ill, good things will surely happen and will come true soon.
Order all ministers to get ready.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是时天雨，虹下属宫中饮井水，井水竭。
厕中豕群出，坏大官灶。
乌鹊斗死。
鼠舞殿端门中。
殿上户自闭，不可开。
天火烧城门。
大风坏宫城楼，折拔树木。
流星下堕。
后姬以下皆恐。
王惊病，使人祠葭水、台水。
王客吕广等知星，为王言 当有兵围城，期在九月、十月，汉当有大臣戮死者 。
语具在《五行志》。
王愈忧恐，谓广等曰： 谋事不成，妖祥数见，兵气且至，奈何？
会盖主舍人父燕仓知其谋，告之，由是发觉。
丞相赐玺书，部中二千石逐捕孙纵之及左将军桀等，皆伏诛。
旦闻之，召相平曰： 事败，遂发兵乎？
平曰： 左将军已死，百姓皆知之，不可发也。
translation: 
It was raining at that time, and the rainbow came down to the palace to drink water from the well. The water in the well suddenly dried up.
The pigs wrapped in pens ran out together and broke the official's pet.
The black magpie fights to death.
Rats danced at the main entrance of the hall.
The windows in the main hall closed automatically and could not be opened.
Fire from heaven burned down the city gates.
The strong wind destroyed the towers of the palace and broke and uprooted the trees.
Meteor falls to the ground.
The queen, princess and palace people were all frightened.
King Yan himself was frightened and fell ill. He sent people to Jia River and Tai River to offer sacrifices and pray for God's blessing.
King Yan's guests Lu Guang and others knew astrology and divined for King Yan: "There will be a large army besieging the city in September or October, and a minister of the Han court will be executed."
These words of his are contained in the "Book of Han." "Five Elements Chronicles".
King Yan was even more worried and frightened, and said to Lu Guang and others: "The plan has not been successful yet, monsters and auspiciousness have appeared many times, and soldiers are about to come. What should I do?"
At this time, Yancang, the father of Princess Gai and Sheren, knew of their conspiracy and reported it, and was discovered by the court.
The prime minister issued a seal, deploying two thousand officials to hunt down Sun Zongzhi, General Shangguan Jie and others, and execute them all.
When Liu Dan learned of this, he summoned Yan Xiangping and said, "The matter has been exposed. Should we send troops just like that?"
Ping said: General Zuo has been executed, and the people all know the truth of the matter, so we can no longer send troops.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
王忧懑，置酒万载宫，会宾客、群臣、妃妾坐饮。
王自歌曰： 归空城兮，狗不吠，鸡不鸣，横术何广广兮，固知国中之无人！
华容夫人起舞曰： 发纷纷兮寘渠，骨籍籍兮亡居。
母求死子兮，妻求死夫。
裴回两渠间兮，君子独安居！
坐者皆泣。
有赦令到，王读之，曰： 嗟乎！
独赦吏民，不赦我。
因迎后姬诸夫人之明光殿，王曰： 老虏曹为事当族！
欲自杀。
左右曰： 党得削国，幸不死。
后姬夫人共啼泣止王。
会天子使使者赐燕王玺书曰： 昔高皇帝王天下，建立子弟以藩屏社稷。
先日诸吕阴谋大逆，刘氏不绝若发，赖绛侯等诛讨贼乱，尊立孝文，以安宗庙，非以中外有人，表里相应故邪？
translation: 
The King of Yan was sad and angry. He held a banquet in Wanzai Palace and gathered the guests, ministers and concubines to sit down and drink.
King Yan himself sang: When I return to this empty city in the future, I will not hear dogs barking or roosters crowing. The streets are so empty. It turns out that there is no one here!
Mrs. Huarong also danced and sang: The hair is filling the ditch; the corpses are scattered.
No place to bury. The mother searches for her dead son, and the wife searches for her dead husband.
Wandering between the two canals, where can a gentleman live in peace?
Everyone here cried.
A pardon order came from the court. After reading it, King Yan said: Alas!
He only pardoned the officials and the people, but not me.
So he welcomed the queen, concubines, and ladies to the Mingguang Hall. King Yan said: "I, an old slave, should be punished by the clan for doing such a thing!"
He said that he would commit suicide.
The entourage on the left and right advised: If you can ask the emperor to cut off the feudal country, you may be lucky enough to survive.
Hou Ji and his wife all cried and tried to stop King Yan.
At this time, the emperor sent a special envoy to give King Yan a seal, which read: When Emperor Gaozu conquered the world, he made his children kings to control the country and the country.
Previously, the Lu family kings conspired to usurp the throne, and the Liu family was in critical danger. They relied on Jianghou Zhou Bo and others to punish the rebels, and established Emperor Xiaowen, so that the ancestral temple was safe. Isn't it because there were people inside and outside the court who cooperated accordingly!


Chunk 14: 
original: 
樊、郦、曹、灌，携剑推锋，从高皇帝垦灾除害，耘锄海内，当此之时，头如蓬葆，勤苦至矣，然其赏不过封侯。今宗室子孙曾无暴衣露冠之劳，裂地而王之，分财而赐之，父死子继，兄终弟及。
今王骨肉至亲，敌吾一体，乃与他姓异族谋害社稷，亲其所疏，疏其所亲，有逆悖之心，无忠爱之义。
如使古人有知，当何面目复奉齐酎见高祖之庙乎！
旦得书，以符玺属医工长，谢相二千石： 奉事不谨，死矣。
即以绶自绞。
后夫人随旦自杀者二十余人。
天子加恩，赦王太子建为庶人，赐旦谥曰刺王。
旦立三十八年而诛，国除。
translation: 
Fan Sha, Li Shang, Cao Shen, Guan Ying and others charged with their swords, followed Emperor Gaozu to eradicate disasters and cut off the heroes in the sea. At that time, their hair had been left alone for a long time and became as messy as tangled grass. They were extremely hardworking and hardworking. However, the rewards they received were just titles. Nowadays, the descendants of the clan have no need to expose their clothes to the wind and the sun. Instead, they divide the land and make kings, divide the wealth and give rewards. When the father dies, the son succeeds, and when the elder brother dies, the younger brother takes over.
Today, the King of Yan is a close relative of flesh and blood, and you and I are one, but he has conspired with foreigners to harm the country. He treats outsiders as relatives and relatives as outsiders. He has a rebellious and rebellious heart and has no loyalty to the king and patriotism.
If the person who died in ancient times knew something secretly, what face would you have on offering Zhaichuo sacrifices to visit the temple of Emperor Gaozu?
Liu Dan received the seal, handed over the seal and talisman of King Yan to the chief medical officer, and confessed to the Prime Minister of Yan with two thousand stones, saying: I have been disrespectful to the imperial court, and I have only one chance of death.
Then he hanged himself with a ribbon and died.
More than 20 people including the queen and his wife followed Liu Dan to commit suicide.
The emperor showed kindness and pardoned Prince Yan Liu Jian as a commoner. Liu Danmi was given the title of King of Assassination.
Liu Dan was executed for thirty-eight years after he became King of Yan.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
后六年，宣帝即位，封旦两子，庆为新昌侯，贤为安定侯。又立故太子建，是为广阳顷王，二十九年薨。
子穆王舜嗣，二十一年薨。
子思王璜嗣，二十年薨。
子嘉嗣。
王莽时，皆废汉藩王为家人，嘉独以献符命封扶美侯，赐姓王氏。
广陵厉王胥赐策曰： 呜呼！
小子胥，受兹赤社，建尔国家，封于南土，世世为汉藩辅。
古人有言曰： 大江之南，五湖之间，其人轻心。
扬州保强，三代要服，不及以正。 呜呼！
悉尔心，祗祗兢兢，乃惠乃顺，毋桐好逸，毋迩宵人，惟法惟则！
《书》云 臣不作福，不作威 ，靡有后羞。
王其戒之！
translation: 
Abolish the feudal state. Six years later, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, and named Liu Dan's two sons as Xindan Castle and Dayshi Castle. He also named Liu Jian, the former prince of Qianrui, as king, making him the King of Qing in Guangyang. He reigned for twenty-nine years.
His son King Mu Liu Shun succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty-one years.
Liu Shun's son, King Si Liu Huang, succeeded him and died after reigning for twenty years.
Liu Huang's son Liu Jia succeeded to the throne.
During the reign of Wang Mang, all the vassal kings of the Han Dynasty were deposed as common people. Only Liu Jia was named Fumeihou and given the surname Wang because he offered Wang Mang the talisman to replace Han as emperor.
The policy book conferring the title of King Li Xingzhi on Guangling said: Woohoo!
Brat, accept this red bag of social soil and build your country. He was established in the south and had to serve as a vassal assistant for generations to come.
The ancients said: South of the Yangtze River and around the Five Lakes, the people there are frivolous.
The Yangzhou area was strong and rebellious. In the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, it was an important place far away from the royal territory. The imperial decrees could not reach that level, woohoo!
You must do your best, be respectful to others, be cautious, be kind to others, and be loyal to others. Don't like to have fun, don't get close to villains, and behave according to the law!
"Shangshu" says that when you are a minister, you should not be arrogant or unruly; this will leave humiliation in the future.
You, the king, need to be careful!


Chunk 16: 
original: 
胥壮大，好倡乐逸游，力扛鼎，空手搏熊彘猛兽。
动作无法度，故终不得为汉嗣。
昭帝初立，益封胥万三千户，元凤中入朝，复益万户，赐钱二千万，黄金二千斤，安车驷马宝剑。
及宣帝即位，封胥四子圣、曾、宝、昌皆为列侯，又立胥小子弘为高密王。
所以褒赏甚厚。
始，昭帝时，胥见上年少无子，有觊欲心。
而楚地巫鬼，胥迎女巫李女须，使下神祝诅。
女须泣曰： 孝武帝下我。
左右皆伏。
言 吾必令胥为天子 。
胥多赐女须钱，使祷巫山。
会昭帝崩，胥曰： 女须良巫也！
杀牛塞祷。
及昌邑王征，复使巫祝诅之。
后王废，胥浸信女须等，数赐予钱物。
宣帝即位，胥曰： 太子孙何以反得立？
复令女须祝诅如前。
又胥女为楚王延寿后弟妇，数相馈遗，通私书。
translation: 
When Liu Xu grew up, he liked to advocate excellent entertainment and debauchery. He was very strong, could lift a tripod, and could fight bears, wild boars and other beasts with his bare hands.
His behavior was inconsistent with the rules, so he was later unable to be made the crown prince of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
When Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he granted Liu Xu an additional 13,000 households. When Liu Xu came to court in the Yuanfeng year, he granted another 10,000 households. He also rewarded 20 million yuan, 2,000 kilograms of gold, a special car for riding, a cart with four horses and a sword, and a sword.
When Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Liu Xu's four sons Liu Sheng, Liu Zeng, Liu Bao, and Liu Chang were all granted the title of marquis, and Liu Xu's youngest son Liu Hong was also appointed as King of Gaomi.
The praises and rewards given were very generous.
When Emperor Zhao was in power, Liu Xu saw that the emperor was young and had no sons, so he coveted the throne.
Chu Di was also superstitious about ghosts, gods and witches, so Liu Xu took the witch Li Nuxu and asked her to invite the gods to the lower world to pray for disaster.
Li Nuxu cried and said: Emperor Xiaowu surrendered to my body.
Liu Xu's left and right attendants all knelt down.
Li Nuxu then said in the tone of Emperor Wu: I must make Liu Xu the emperor.
Afterwards, Liu Xu rewarded Li Nuxu with a lot of money and asked her to go to Wushan to pray.
While it was being built, Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty passed away. Liu Xu said: Li Nuxu is a witch who can really communicate with gods!
In return, a cow is killed as a sacrifice.
When King Changyi was conscripted into the capital and succeeded to the throne, Liu Xu asked witches to sacrifice to the gods in order to bring disaster.
Later, when King Changyi was deposed, Liu Xu became even more superstitious about Li Nuxu and other witches, and rewarded them with money and materials many times.
When Emperor Moxuan ascended the throne, Liu Xu asked: Why was the grandson of the former prince made emperor instead?
Let Li Nuxu pray to God for curses again as before.
In addition, Liu Xu's daughter was the younger brother-in-law of Chu King Liu Yanshou. They often exchanged gifts and exchanged private letters with each other.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
后延寿坐谋反诛，辞连及胥。
有诏勿治，赐胥黄金前后五千斤，它器物甚众。
胥又闻汉立太子，谓姬南等曰： 我终不得立矣。
乃止不诅。
后胥子南利侯宝坐杀人夺爵，还归广陵，与胥姬左修奸。
事发觉，系狱，弃市。
相胜之奏夺王射陂草田以赋贫民，奏可。
胥复使巫祝诅如前。
胥宫园中枣树生十余茎，茎正赤，叶白如素。
池水变赤，鱼死。
有鼠昼立舞王后廷中。
胥谓姬南等曰： 枣水鱼鼠之怪甚可恶也。
居数月，祝诅事发觉，有司按验，胥惶恐，药杀巫及宫人二十余人以绝口。
公卿请诛胥，天子遣廷尉、大鸿胪即讯。
胥谢曰： 罪死有余，诚皆有之。
事久远，请归思念具对。
胥既见使者还，置酒显阳殿。召太子霸及子女董訾、胡生等夜饮，使所幸八子郭昭君、家人子赵左君等鼓瑟歌舞。
translation: 
Later, Liu Yanshou was executed for treason, and his confession implicated Liu Xu.
The emperor ordered Liu Xu not to be held accountable, and gave Liu Xu gold, weighing five thousand kilograms before and after, and many other utensils.
When Liu Xu heard that the imperial court had appointed a prince, he said to Ji Concubine and others: I can never be made emperor.
It also stops letting witches curse.
Later, Liu Xu's son Nanlihou Liu Shi was deprived of his title for committing murder. He returned to Guangling and committed adultery with Liu Xu's concubine Zuo Xiu.
After the incident, Liu Shi was thrown into prison and his head was beheaded in public.
Guangling Xiangshengzhi asked the court to seize Liu Xu's grassland at Sheshuibei and distribute it to the poor people, and the court agreed.
For this reason, Liu Xu asked the witch to pray to God to bring disaster to the emperor as before.
In Liu Xu's palace garden, the jujube tree sprouted more than ten new branches. The branches were straight and red in color, but the leaves of the tree were as white as plain silk.
The water in the garden turned a dull color and all the fish died.
During the day there were mice dancing in the Queen's courtyard.
Liu Xu said to Ji Concubine and others: The strange phenomena of jujube trees, pond water, fish, and rats are too abominable.
A few months later, the matter of asking God to bring disaster was exposed, and relevant officials came to investigate. Liu Xu became frightened and poisoned more than 20 witches and maids to silence him.
The ministers of the imperial court requested that Liu Xu be executed. The emperor sent Ting Wei and Da Honglu to interrogate.
Liu Xu apologized and said: I deserve to die, and there are indeed all the things I reported to you.
It's been a long time since this happened. Please go back first. I'll tell you frankly after I've thought about it.
When Liu Xu saw that the court officials had left, he set up a banquet in the Xianyang Hall and invited the prince Liu Ba and his other children Liu Dongzi and Liu Husheng to have a night of drinking. He also asked his favorite eighth lady Guo Zhaojun and his domestic singer Tzuo Jun to play the harp and sing and dance.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
王自歌曰： 欲久生兮无终，长不乐兮安穷！
奉天期兮不得须臾，千里马兮驻待路。
黄泉下兮幽深，人生要死，何为苦心！
何用为乐心所喜，出入无悰为乐亟。
蒿里召兮郭门阅，死不得取代庸，身自逝。
左右悉更涕泣奏酒，至鸡鸣时罢。
胥谓太子霸曰： 上遇我厚，今负之甚。
我死，骸骨当暴。
幸而得葬，薄之，无厚也。
即以绶自绞死。
及八子郭昭君等二人皆自杀。
天子加恩，赦王诸子皆为庶人，赐谥曰厉王。
立六十四年而诛，国除。
后七年，元帝复立胥太子霸，是为孝王，十三年薨。
translation: 
Liu Xu himself sang: The reason why people want to live forever is because there is no end to comfort and enjoyment.
But I am never happy in this life, why should I live till the end of my life? I must abide by the time limit given to me by the emperor, and I must not live any longer. Look at the imperial envoy's thousand-mile horse, parked at the inn, waiting to go on the road.
Under the Yellow Spring, there is no bottom. People are going to die eventually. Why should we suffer and be sad about death?
What is the joy of living in this world? It lies in being able to do whatever you want. Now that I am not happy when I go out, I will just have a brief moment of happiness.
The wormwood is calling me to go, and I have seen its outline. You can't use money to hire someone to die. Go die yourself!
People on the left and right were crying and toasting each other, and the banquet didn't end until dawn.
Liu Xu said to Prince Liu Ba: The emperor treated me very well, and I feel so sorry for him now.
When I die, my body will be exposed to the public.
If you are lucky enough to be allowed to be buried, just bury it hastily and don’t give it a grand burial.
After saying this, he hanged himself with a ribbon and died.
Guo Zhaojun, the eighth aunt, and two others committed suicide.
The emperor was lenient and kind, pardoned Liu Xu's sons from the death penalty, demoted them to common people, and gave Liu Xu the honorific title of King Li.
Liu Xu was granted the title of king for sixty-four years, and was finally executed and the feudal state was abolished.
Seven years later, Emperor Mo Yuan appointed Liu Xu's crown prince, Liu Ba, as Prince Xiao, who reigned for thirteen years before his death.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
子共王意嗣，三年薨。
子哀王护嗣，十六年薨，无子，绝。
后六年，成帝复立孝王子守，是为靖王，立二十年薨。
子宏嗣，王莽时绝。
初，高密哀王弘本始元年以广陵王胥少子立，九年薨。
子顷王章嗣，三十三年薨。
子怀王宽嗣，十一年薨。
子慎嗣，王莽时绝。
昌邑哀王髆，天汉四年立，十一年薨，子贺嗣。
立十三年，昭帝崩，无嗣，大将军霍光征王贺典丧。
玺书曰： 制诏昌邑王：使行大鸿胪事少府乐成，宗正德、光禄大夫吉、中郎将利汉征王，乘七乘传诣长安邸。
夜漏未尽一刻，以火发书。
其日中，贺发，晡时至定陶，行百三十五里，侍从者马死相望于道。
郎中令龚遂谏王，令还郎谒者五十余人。
贺到济阳，求长鸣鸡，道买积竹杖。
translation: 
Liu Ba's son Liu Yi, the co-king, succeeded him and died after reigning for three years.
Liu Yi's son, King Ai Liu Hu, succeeded him and died after reigning for sixteen years. Liu Hu had no sons and died without any heirs.
Six years later, Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty established Liu Shou, the son of Liu Ba, the filial king, and made him King Jing. He reigned for twenty years until his death.
Liu Shou's son Liu Hong succeeded him until Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty.
Initially, Liu Hong, the Ai King of Gaomi, was granted a title in the first year of Benshi because he was the youngest son of Liu Xu, King of Guangling. He died nine years after becoming queen.
Liu Hong's son Liu Zhang, the king of Qing, succeeded him and died after reigning for thirty-three years.
Liu Zhang's son, King Huai Liu Kuan, succeeded him and died after reigning for eleven years.
Liu Kuan's son Liu Shen succeeded to the throne and ended the Wang Mang era.
Liu Zhen, the Ai king of Changyi, was established in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty. He died in the eleventh year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu He.
Thirteen years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty died without heirs. General Huo Guang summoned the mourning king Liu He to preside over the funeral.
The seal said: The king of Changyi heard the order: Shi Lecheng, Zongzheng Liude, Guanglu doctor Bingji, and Zhonglang general Limo were sent to recruit the prince to take a seven-horse post carriage to the Chang'an mansion.
It took less than a moment and the book was published quickly overnight.
At about noon, Liu He set out from Changyi and arrived at Dingtao in the evening. After running for 135 miles, the horses ridden by his attendants died of exhaustion one after another on the road.
The doctor's order, Gong Sui, persuaded Liu He, and then more than 50 subordinate officials including the doctor and Yezhe were allowed to return to Changyi.
Liu He arrived in Jiyang, looking for a bird whose whine could make a longer sound. On the way, he also bought a few walking sticks made of bamboos.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
过弘农，使大奴善以衣车载女子。
至湖，使者以让相安乐。
安乐告遂，遂入问贺，贺曰： 无有。
遂曰： 即无有，何爱一善以毁行义！
请收属吏，以湔洒大王。
即捽善，属卫士长行法。
贺到霸上，大鸿胪效迎，驺奉乘舆车。
王使仆寿成御，郎中令遂参乘。
旦至广明东都门，遂曰： 礼，奔丧望见国都哭。
此长安东郭门也。
贺曰： 我嗌痛，不能哭。
至城门，遂复言，贺曰： 城门与郭门等耳。
且至未央宫东阙，遂曰： 昌邑帐在是阙外驰道北，未至帐所，有南北行道，马足未至数步，大王宜下车，乡阙西面伏。哭尽哀止。
王曰： 诺。 到，哭如仪。
王受皇帝玺绶，袭尊号。
translation: 
When passing by Hongnong, he sent a big servant named Shan to rob the women and hide them in the clothes and carriages with curtains.
When they arrived at Hu County, the imperial envoy scolded Changyi Prime Minister Anle for this matter.
Anle told Gong Sui, and Xi Sui came to ask Liu He. Liu He said, "It doesn't happen."
Gong Sui said: Since there is no such thing, why should you ruin your character for the sake of being a slave of goodness?
I request that Shan be captured and handed over to the officials for punishment, so that the king's reputation can be cleared.
So he seized Shan and handed him over to the chief guard for justice.
When Liu He came to Bashang, Da Honglu went to the outskirts of Chang'an to greet him. The knights in the palace attended him and got into the imperial carriage.
Liu He asked his servant Shoucheng to take charge, and the doctor ordered Gong Sui to ride on his right.
When they arrived at the east gate of Chang'an in Guangming at dawn, Gong Sui said: "According to etiquette, mourners should weep bitterly when they see the capital."
It was built as Shumen, the outer city of Chang'an.
Liu He said: My throat hurts and I can't cry.
When he came to the inner city gate of Chang'an again, Gong Sui reminded him again, Liu He said: Aren't the inner city gate and the outer city gate both city gates?
The carriage and horse were about to arrive at the gate of Shumen Tower of Weiyang Palace. Gong Sui said: "The curtain of King Changyi is set up on the north side of the galloping road outside the palace. Before reaching the curtain, there is a north-south road. The horse can reach it in only a few steps. Your Majesty, you should get off the car, kneel down to the west and face the gate tower, and cry loudly in mourning." Liu He said: Okay.
When we got downstairs, we cried according to the etiquette.
Changyi King Liu He accepted the emperor's seal and inherited the emperor's title.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
即位二十七日，行淫乱。
大将军光与群臣议，白孝昭皇后，废贺归故国，赐汤沐邑二千户，故王家财物皆与贺。
及哀王女四人各赐汤沐邑千户。
语在《霍光传》。
国除，为山阳郡。
初，贺在国时，数有怪。
尝见白犬，高三尺，无头，其颈以下似人，而冠方山冠。
后见熊，左右皆莫见。
又大鸟飞集宫中。
王知，恶之，辄以问郎中令遂。
遂为言其故，语在《五行志》。
王卬天叹曰： 不祥何为数来！
遂叩头曰： 臣不敢隐忠，数言危亡之戒，大王不说。
夫国之存亡，岂在臣言哉？
愿王内自揆度。
translation: 
During his twenty-seventh day in office, he behaved lewdly.
General Huo Guang discussed with the ministers, and then reported to Queen Xiaozhao, deposed Liu He, returned him to his hometown of Luyi, and gave him 2,000 households in Tangmuyi. All the property he had when he was king of Changyi was returned to him.
The four daughters of the former Ai King Liu Li were also given to Tang Muyi with one thousand households each.
The story of this incident is recorded in "The Biography of Huo Guang".
The feudal state of King Changyi was abolished and changed to Shanyang County.
When Liu He was in the feudal state, strange things happened many times.
I once saw a white dog, three feet tall, headless, like a human from the neck down, and wearing a square mountain crown.
Later he saw a bear, but no one around him saw it.
There were also swarms of big crows flying into the palace.
Liu He knew this was not a good thing and was very annoyed, so he told his doctor Gong Sui and asked him what was going on.
Gong Sui told him the reason, and his words were recorded in "Five Elements Chronicles".
Liu He looked up to the sky and sighed: Why do ominous things always come?
Gong Sui kowtowed and said: As a minister, I dare not keep my words in my heart without giving you advice. I have given advice many times that is related to the danger of the country, but your Majesty is not happy to hear it.
But does the existence or failure of a country depend on a few words from its ministers?
Please think about it yourself, Your Majesty.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
大王诵《诗》三百五篇，人事浃，王道备，王之所行中《诗》一篇何等也？
大王位为诸侯王，行污于庶人，以存难，以亡易，宜深察之。
后又血污王坐席，王问遂，遂叫然号曰： 宫空不久，祅祥数至。
血者，阴忧象也。
宜畏慎自省。
贺终不改节。
居无何，征。
既即位，后王梦青蝇之矢积西阶东，可五六石，以屋版瓦覆，发视之，青蝇矢也。
以问遂，遂曰： 陛下，之《诗》不云乎？ 营营青蝇，至于藩；恺悌君子，毋信谗言。
陛下左侧谗人众多，如是青蝇恶矣。
宜进先帝大臣子孙亲近以为左右。
如不忍昌邑故人，信用谗谀，必有凶咎。
translation: 
Your Majesty, you have recited three hundred and five chapters of the Book of Songs, which are very thorough in explaining how to behave as a human being, and are also complete in terms of how to govern a country. Which chapter of the Book of Songs does your behavior conform to?
Your Majesty, as a vassal king, the things you do are even more filthy than those of common people. It is very difficult for you to survive for a long time in this way, but it is very easy for your country to perish because of this. You should reflect deeply on this.
Later, Liu He's throne was stained with blood. Liu He asked Gong Sui, and Gong Sui shouted loudly: "The palace is about to be empty as evil spirits and weird things happen one after another."
The appearance of blood is a sign of inner sorrow.
You should beware of careful self-reflection.
Liu He did not regret his behavior after all.
It didn't take long before he was drafted into the DPRK.
After he became emperor, he later dreamed that fly excrement was piled up on the east side of the steps of the West Palace. It was as much as five or six stones, and it was covered with large tiles from the roof. When he uncovered it, it turned out to be fly excrement.
I asked Gong Sui about this matter again, and Gong Sui said: Isn't there a verse like this in the "Book of Songs" that your Majesty has read: Flies flying here and there are all over the fences. A gentleman who enjoys peace and prosperity should not listen to slander.
There are many slanderous and sycophantic people around Your Majesty, just like this fly excrement.
You should use the descendants or close confidants of the former ministers as your close ministers.
If you cannot bear to alienate your old subordinates in Changyi and listen to their slanderous words and flattery towards you, great disaster will surely happen.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
愿诡祸为福，皆放逐之。臣当先逐矣。
贺不用其言，卒至于废。
大将军光更尊立武帝曾孙，是为孝宣帝。
即位，心内忌贺，元康二年遣使者赐山阳太守张敞玺书曰： 制诏山阳太守：其谨备盗贼，察往来过客。
毋下所赐书！
敞于是条奏贺居处，著其废亡之效，曰： 臣敞地节三年五月视事，故昌邑王居故宫，奴婢在中者百八十三人，闭大门，开小门，廉吏一人为领钱物市买，朝内食物，它不得出入。
督盗一人别主徼循，察往来者。
以王家钱取卒，迾宫清中备盗贼。
臣敞数遣丞吏行察。
translation: 
I hope to turn misfortunes into blessings and banish all the old people in Changyi from the capital. As a minister, I will be the first to be banished home.
Liu He did not accept his words and was finally deposed.
General Huo Guang changed his position to the great-grandson of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and became Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he was suspicious of Liu He. In the second year of Yuankang, he sent an envoy to give Zhang Chang, the prefect of Shanyang, an imperial edict saying: The edict to the prefect of Shanyang: Be careful to guard against thieves and monitor your comings and goings.
However, this order cannot be passed down to the public!
From then on, Zhang Chang reported Liu He's activities and daily life to the imperial court, explaining Liu He's reaction or performance after he was deposed. The report said: My minister Zhang Chang came to take office in May of the third year of Dijie. The former King of Changyi lived in the former palace. There were one hundred and eighty-three slaves in the palace. The main door was closed and only the small door was opened. An honest official was selected to come out to collect money and buy things. Food was collected every morning, and items other than food were not allowed to come in and out at will.
One person who supervises thieves is responsible for patrolling and monitoring people coming and going.
He used the money from the former royal family in Changyi to hire soldiers to protect the palace walls and courtyards from thieves.
I sent the chief official many times to check.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
四年九月中，臣敞入视居处状，故王年二十六七，为人青黑色，小目，鼻末锐卑，少须眉，身体长大，疾痿，行步不便。
衣短衣大绔，冠惠文冠，佩玉环，簪笔持牍趋谒。
臣敞与坐语中庭，阅妻子奴婢。
臣敞欲动观其意，即以恶鸟感之，曰： 昌邑多枭。 故王应曰： 然。
前贺西至长安，殊无枭。
复来，东至济阳，乃复闻枭声。 臣敞阅至子女持辔，故王跪曰： 持辔母，严长孙女也。
臣敞故知执金吾严延年字长孙，女罗紨，前为故王妻。
察故王衣服言语跪起，清狂不惠。
妻十六人，子二十二人，其十一人男，十一人女。
昧死奏名籍及奴婢财物簿。
臣敞前书言： 昌邑哀王歌舞者张修等十人，无子，又非姬，但良人，无官名，王薨当罢归。
太傅豹等擅留，以为哀王园中人，所不当得为，请罢归。
故王闻之曰： 中人守园，疾者当勿治，相杀伤者当勿法，欲令亟死，太守奈何而欲罢之？
translation: 
One day in September of the fourth year, as a minister, I went to the palace to inspect his living conditions. I saw that the former King of Changyi was about 26 or 26 years old. He had a blue-black face, small eyes, a pointed and low nose, sparse eyebrows, a tall stature, and suffered from paralysis and hemiplegia, which made it difficult to walk.
Wearing a short coat on the upper body, long trousers on the lower body, a Huiwen crown on his head, a jade ring on his body, a pen on his head, and a wooden slip in his hand, he came to see him.
Your Majesty, I sat with him in the middle hall, talking, and looking at his wife and slaves.
I wanted to touch him so I could observe his mood, so I used birds that people hate to stimulate him. I said: Changyi Xiao Wuduo. The former King of Changyi responded and said: Yes.
I once went west to Chang'an and never saw one.
When I came back, I walked east to Jiyang and heard the cry of the owl again. I saw his children holding the bridle. He knelt down and said: The mother holding the bridle is the daughter of Yan Changsun.
I originally knew that Yan Yannian, the eldest grandson of Zhijin Wu, had a daughter named Luo Yu, who was the ex-wife of the former King of Changyi.
I observed the former King of Changyi's clothes, speech, kneeling, sitting, and walking. He looked stupid and stupid.
He had sixteen wives and concubines, and a total of twenty-two children, including eleven sons and eleven daughters.
Now, at the risk of death, I will present to you the name list of the former King of Changyi and the account books concerning his slaves and property.
I mentioned in my previous letter: Zhang Xiu, the kabuki girl of King Ai of Changyi, and ten others have no children and are not the king's concubines. They are children of good families and have not been admitted to the officialdom. King Ai has passed away, so they should be released to their own families.
Taifu Bao and others stayed without authorization and made them serve as palace servants in King Ai's garden. This is against the law. Please let them go home.
When the former king learned about this, he said: These palace servants were asked to guard the garden, and the sick were not treated, and they fought and killed each other without any punishment. Just to let them die quickly, why did the prefect let them go home?


Chunk 25: 
original: 
其天资喜由乱亡，终不见仁义，如此。
后丞相御史以臣敞书闻，奏可。
皆以遣。
上由此知贺不足忌。
其明年春，乃下诏曰： 盖闻象有罪，舜封之，骨肉之亲，析而不殊。
其封故昌邑王贺为海昏侯，食邑四千户。
侍中卫尉金安上上书言： 贺，天之所弃，陛下至仁，复封为列侯。
贺嚚顽放废之人，不宜得奉宗庙朝聘之礼。
奏可。
贺就国豫章。
数年，扬州刺史柯奏贺与故太守卒史孙万世交通，万世问贺： 前见废时，何不坚守毋出宫，斩大将军，而听人夺玺绶乎？
贺曰： 然。
失之。 万世又以贺且王豫章，不久为列侯。
贺曰：且然，非所宜言。
有司案验，请逮捕。
制曰： 削户三千。
后薨。
豫章太守廖奏言： 舜封象于有鼻，死不为置后，以为暴乱之人不宜为太祖。
海昏侯贺死，上当为后者子充国；充国死，复上弟奉亲；奉亲复死，是天绝之也。
陛下圣仁，于贺甚厚，虽舜于象无以加也。
宜以礼绝贺，以奉天意。
愿下有司议。
议皆以为不宜为立嗣，国除。
元帝即位，复封贺子代宗为海昏侯，传子至孙，今见为侯。
translation: 
He really likes chaos and death by nature, and he has always been so devoid of benevolence and righteousness.
Later, the Prime Minister and Censor submitted my petition to Your Majesty, and it was confirmed that it was done accurately.
Then all these people were released and sent away.
From then on, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty knew that Liu He had nothing to worry about.
In the spring of the following year, he issued an edict saying: "I heard that Xiang was guilty, but Shun still sealed him. The relationship between flesh and blood was divided and continued."
Today, Liu He, the former king of Changyi, is granted the title of Marquis of Haihun, with a settlement of 4,000 households.
Jin An, the imperial guard, wrote a letter saying: Liu He is a man abandoned by heaven. Your Majesty is extremely kind and makes him a prince.
Since Liu He was a dull, stubborn and abandoned person, he should not participate in the rituals of offering sacrifices to the ancestral temple and meeting the emperor.
The performance is feasible.
So Liu He was sent to the fiefdom of Yuzhang.
A few years later, Liu He, the governor of Yangzhou, Ke La, became friends with Sun Wanshi, the former governor's soldier. Sun Wanshi asked Liu He: When he was deposed, why didn't he stay in the palace and kill the general, but instead allowed others to take the jade seal away?
Liu He said: You are right, I was wrong.
Sun Wanshi also believed that Liu He would be named King of Yuzhang and would not be a prince for a long time.
Liu He said: It's almost like this, but we shouldn't say it out loud.
Relevant officials investigated and found out the truth and asked Liu He to be arrested.
The emperor issued an order: Cut off three thousand households in the city.
Afterwards Liu He passed away.
Liao Shang, the prefect of Yuzhang, reported: Shun sealed the elephant with a trunk. After the death of the elephant, he did not establish a queen for him. He believed that a violent and confused person should not be the founder of a feudal state.
After the death of Liu He, Marquis of Haihun, it was reported to the government that his son Liu Chongguo was the heir. When Liu Chongguo died, his brother Liu Fengqin was reported to the government. Liu Fengqin also died. This was God cutting off his heirs!
Your Majesty was wise and kind, and was very kind to Liu He. Even Shun did the same to his subjects.
Liu He's title should be terminated according to etiquette to comply with the will of the Emperor of Heaven.
The request was handed over to the relevant officials for discussion.
The result of the discussion was that they should not establish heirs for the sake of plastic fall, and abolish the feudal state.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, he also granted Xinghe's son Liu Fese the title of Marquis of Haihun. The succession was passed on to his grandson, and he is still a marquis.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
赞曰：巫蛊之祸，岂不哀哉！
此不唯一江充之辜，亦有天时，非人力所致焉。
建元六年，蚩尤之旗见，其长竟天。
后遂命将出征，略取河南，建置朔方。
其春，戾太子生。
自是之后，师行三十年，兵所诛屠夷灭死者不可胜数。
及巫蛊事起，京师流血，僵尸数万，太子子父皆败。
故太子生长于兵，与之终始，何独一嬖臣哉！
秦始皇即位三十九年，内平六国，外攘四夷，死人如乱麻，暴骨长城之下，头卢相属于道，不一日而无兵。
由是山东之难兴，四方溃而逆秦。
秦将吏外畔，贼臣内发，乱作萧墙，祸成二世。
故曰 兵犹火也，弗戢必自焚 ，信矣。
是以仓颉作书， 止  戈 为 武 。
圣人以武禁暴整乱，止息兵戈，非以为残而兴纵之也。
translation: 
Praising: How sad the harm caused by the witchcraft case!
But this is not Jiang Chong's fault alone. It is also God's will and cannot be caused by human power.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, the demon star Chiyou Banner appeared, and its tail grew to the horizon.
After that, the imperial court ordered generals to go out to conquer Henan and establish Shuofang County.
In the spring of that year, Prince Ru was born.
From then on, during the thirty years of the war, the army killed and destroyed countless people.
When the witchcraft case broke out, the capital Chang'an became a river of blood, with tens of thousands of corpses lying on the ground. The prince's family, father and son, were all destroyed.
Therefore, the prince was born and grew up during the military era, and was always accompanied by wars. How can it be said that it was caused by just a favored minister?
During the thirty-nine years of Qin Shihuang's reign, he flattened six kingdoms internally and defeated barbarians from all directions externally. Many people died, their bones were exposed under the Great Wall, and their heads were visible along the way. There was no day without fighting.
Therefore, the Shandong Incident occurred, and the rule of the four parties collapsed and rebelled against Qin.
The military generals and civil servants of the Qin Dynasty rebelled outside, and the treacherous official Ni Xing made trouble within the court. The chaos started within Xiao Qiang, and the disaster was caused and broke out during the reign of Hu Hai, the second generation.
Therefore, it is said: War is like setting fire. If it cannot be stopped, it will burn itself.
Indeed. Therefore, Cangjie coined the character Zhijia Ge which is the character for 武.
Saints use force to prohibit riots, restore order, and stop wars, not to commit cruelty and indulge in chaos.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
《易》曰： 天子所助者顺也，人之所助者信也；君子履信思顺，自天祐之，吉无不利也。
故车千秋指明蛊情，章太子之冤。
千秋材知未必能过人也，以其销恶运，遏乱原，因衰激极，道迎善气，传得天人之祐助云。
translation: 
"Book of Changes" says: The Emperor of Heaven helps those who obey the will of Heaven, and the people help those who are trustworthy. If a gentleman fulfills his faith and has a gentle mind, then the Emperor of Heaven will bless him, and everything will be good and nothing bad will happen.
Therefore, Che Qianqiu can reveal the true nature of the witchcraft case and clear up the grievances of the prince.
Che Qianqiu's intelligence may not be better than others, but because he eliminates bad luck, curbs the source of disaster, eliminates major disasters in times of crisis, and guides good fortune, he attracts the blessing and help of the Emperor of Heaven and the people.


