Summary uses chunk [2, 1, 4, 2]

Chunk 2: 
original: 
临命，敕兄子造曰： 必致我尸于师门，使死而有知，魂灵不惭；如其无知，得土而已。
造从之。
景鸾字汉伯，广汉梓潼人也。
少随师学经，涉七州之地。
能理《齐诗》、《施氏易》、兼受《河》、《洛》图纬，作《易说》及《诗解》，文句兼取《河》、《洛》，以类相从，名为《交集》。
又撰《礼内外记》，号曰《礼略》。又抄风角杂书，列其占验，作《兴道》一篇。
及作《月令章句》。
凡所著述五十余万言。
数上书陈救灾变之术。
州郡辟命不就，以寿终。
薛汉字公子，淮阳人也。
世习《韩诗》，父子以章句著名。
汉少传父业，尤善说灾异谶纬，教授常数百人。
建武初，为博士，受诏校定图谶。
当世言《诗》者，推汉为长。
永平中，为千乘太守，政有异迹。
后坐楚事辞相连，下狱死。
弟子犍为杜抚、会稽澹台敬伯、钜鹿韩伯高最知名。
杜抚字叔和，犍为武阳人也。
少有高才。
受业于薛汉，定《韩诗章句》。
后归乡里教授。
沈静乐道，举动必以礼。
弟子千余人。后为骠骑将军东平王苍所辟，及苍就国，掾史悉补王官属，未满岁，皆自劾归。
时，抚为大夫，不忍去，苍闻，赐车马财物遣之。
辟太尉府。
建初中，为公车令，数月卒官。
其所作《诗题约义通》，学者传之，曰《杜君法》云。
召驯字伯春，九江寿春人也。
曾祖信臣，元帝时为少府。
父建武中为卷令，俶傥不拘小节。
驯小习《韩诗》，博通书传，以志义闻，乡里号之曰 德行恂恂召伯春 。
累仕州郡，辟司徒府。
建初元年，稍迁骑都尉，侍讲肃宗。
拜左中郎将，入授诸王。
translation: 
When he was about to die, he told his brother's son Ren Zao: "My body must be sent to the teacher. If I am still conscious after death, my soul will not feel ashamed; if I am not conscious, I have to leave it alone."
Ren Zao listened to him.
◆Jing Luan's biography, Jing Luan's courtesy name is Han Bo, and he was born in Zitong, Guanghan.
When he was young, he studied scriptures with his teacher and traveled all over the seven states.
He was able to attack "Qi Shi" and "Shi Shi Yi", and also absorbed the pictures and latitudes of "Heluo", and wrote "Yi Shuo" and "Poetry Interpretation". He also wrote "The Internal and External Notes on Rites", which is called "The Rite Brief".
He also copied Fengjiao's miscellaneous books, listed the predictions, and wrote an article "Xingdao".
And wrote "Moon Order Chapters and Sentences".
His writings total more than 500,000 words.
He wrote many letters describing extraordinary disaster relief techniques.
The prefectures and counties were not established. End with life.
◆Xue Hanzhuan, Xue Hanzi Gongzi, a native of Huaiyang.
They have been studying "Han Shi" for generations, and both father and son are famous for their interpretation of the chapters and sentences of the scriptures.
When Xue Han was young, he passed on his father's studies and was particularly good at predicting disasters and prophecies. He often taught hundreds of students.
In the early years of Jianwu, he became a doctor and was ordered to compile the prophecies.
Among those who talked about "Poetry" in the world, Xue Han was ranked first.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the prefect of Qiancheng and had particularly good political achievements.
Later, he was convicted of the Chu incident and was imprisoned to death.
The most famous disciples were Jianwei Du Fu, Tantai Jingbo in Kuaiji, and Han Bogao in Julu.
◆In the biography of Du Fu, Du Fu was named Shuhe, and Qian was a native of Wuyang.
Very talented when he was young.
Learned from Xue Han and settled on "Korean Poetry Chapters".
Later he returned to his hometown to teach students.
Shen Yi is quiet, takes Tao as his pleasure, and every move is based on etiquette.
There were more than a thousand disciples, and they were later conquered by the hussar general Wang Cang of Dongping. When Cang came to the country, all the officials of the imperial family were recruited to supplement the royal family. Within a year, they all went back.
Du Fu was a doctor at that time and couldn't bear to leave. Cang heard about it and sent him off with carriages, horses and property.
Established Taiwei Mansion.
He built a junior high school and served as a bus commander. He only lasted a few months and died in office.
His "Poem Titles and Meanings" is passed down and recited by scholars, and is called "Du Junfa".
◆Zhao Xunzhuan, whose courtesy name is Bochun, was born in Shouchun, Jiujiang.
Great-grandfather summoned his ministers to serve as Shaofu during the reign of Emperor Yuan.
His father, Jianwu Zhong, was a county magistrate, and he was dissolute and unruly.
Zhao Xun studied "Han Shi" when he was young. He had extensive knowledge of classics and biographies, and was famous for his ambition and righteousness. The villagers say: Virtue and virtue call for Bochun.
He went out to serve in various prefectures and counties many times and recruited Situ Mansion.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, he was promoted to Captain of Cavalry and served as Suzong's minister.
He was awarded the title of General Zuo Zhonglang and taught the princes in the dynasty.
summary:
The transmission and scholarly traditions of classical Chinese texts, particularly the *Shi* (Poetry) and other classics, during the Han dynasty. The *Shi* of Lu, Qi, and Han schools each had established doctors, while the *Mao Shi* did not. The biographies of several scholars follow, detailing their studies, teachings, and official careers. The text concludes with a historian's comment on the flourishing of Confucian studies after Guangwu, noting that despite political turmoil, the teachings of the classics maintained social order and delayed the Han dynasty's fall.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
建武初，诣博士受业，习《鲁诗》。
闭门诵习，不交僚党，京师称之。
后归为郡吏，举明经，除济阴王文学。
以疾免官，教授山泽中，徒众常数百人。
永平初，为博士，再迁侍中。
十三年，迁大鸿胪。
十八年，拜光禄大夫。
建初四年，拜五官中郎将，诏入授千乘王伉。
应经明行修，弟子自远方至，著录数千人。
肃宗甚重之，数进见，论难于前，特受赏赐。
时会京师诸儒于白虎观，讲论《五经》同异，使应专掌难问，侍中淳于恭奏之，帝亲临称制，如石渠故事。
明年，出为上党太守，征拜骑都尉，卒于官。
伏恭字叔齐，琅邪东武人，司徒湛之兄子也。
湛弟黯，字稚文，以明《齐诗》，改定章句，作《解说》九篇，位至光禄勋，无子，以恭为后。
恭性孝，事所继母甚谨，少传黯学，以任为郎。
建武四年，除剧令。
视事十三年，以惠政公廉闻。
青州举为尤异，太常试经第一，拜博士，迁常山太守。
郭修学校，教授不辍，由是北州多为伏氏学。
永平二年，代梁松为太仆。
四年，帝临辟雍，于行礼中拜恭为司空，儒者以为荣。
初，父黯章句繁多，恭乃省减浮辞，定为二十万言。
在位九年，以病乞骸骨罢，诏赐千石奉以终其身。
十五年，行幸琅邪，引遇如三公仪。
建初二年冬，肃宗行飨礼，以恭为三老。
年九十，元和元年卒，赐葬显节陵下。
子寿，官至东郡太守。
任末字叔本，蜀郡繁人也。
少习《齐诗》，游京师，教授十余年。
友人董奉德于洛阳病亡，末乃躬推鹿车，载奉德丧致其墓所，由是知名。
为郡功曹，辞以病免。
后奔师丧，于道物故。
translation: 
In the early years of Jianwu, he went to study for a doctoral degree and studied "Lu Shi".
He studied behind closed doors and made no friends, and everyone in the capital praised him.
Later he returned home and became a county official. He taught Ming scriptures and taught literature to King Yin.
He was dismissed from his official post due to illness and became a professor in Shan Zezhong, often with hundreds of students and disciples.
In the early years of Yongping, he became a doctor and was promoted to minister.
In the thirteenth year, he was promoted to Dahonglu.
In the eighteenth year, he was awarded Doctor Guanglu.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was awarded the title of "Five-Guan Zhonglang General".
Wei Ying was proficient in Confucian classics and had a pure moral character. He had thousands of disciples who came from far away to learn from him.
Suzong valued him very much, visited him many times, discussed problems in front of the emperor, and received special rewards.
At this time, the Confucian scholars of the capital were gathered at Baihu Temple to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics, and Wei Ying was asked to explain the difficulties. Chun Yugong, the servant, reported to the emperor. The emperor personally attended the meeting to preside over it, just like the old thing in Shiqu.
In the second year, Wei Ying was appointed as the governor of Shangdang and was awarded the title of cavalry captain. He died in office.
◆The biography of Fu Gong, Fu Gong's courtesy name Shuqi, was a native of Dongwu, Langfu, and the son of Situ Fuzhan's younger brother.
Fu Zhan's younger brother Fu An, whose courtesy name was Zhiwen, changed the chapters and sentences in order to clarify "Qi Shi" and wrote nine chapters of "Explanation". He rose to the rank of Guang Luxun. Fu Zhan had no sons, so he took Fu Gong as his queen.
Fu Gong has a filial nature and treats his stepmother with great respect. When he was young, he passed on the Fu An School and was appointed as a man.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of county magistrate.
He served for thirteen years and became famous for his political integrity and fairness.
Qingzhou selected him as a special scholar. He ranked first in Taichang's classics examination, was awarded a doctorate, and was promoted to the prefect of Changshan.
He built schools and taught more than one disciple, so Beizhou was mostly Fu's school.
In the second year of Yongping, he replaced Liang Song as the imperial servant.
In the fourth year, the emperor personally went to Piyong and during the ceremony, he conferred Fugong the title of Sikong. Confucian scholars considered it an honor.
At first, Fugong's father Fu An's chapter was too complicated, so Fugong deleted the redundant words and the final version was 200,000 words.
After reigning for nine years, he asked to go home due to illness and was granted a salary of thousands of dollars to last his life.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor came to Langfu and introduced Fugong, which was like a ceremony to meet the three princes.
In the winter of the second year of Jianchu, Suzong held a feast and called Fugong the third elder.
In the 90th year of his reign, he passed away in the first year of Yuanhe and was buried under the Xianjie Mausoleum.
His son Fushou was promoted to the prefect of Dongjun.
◆In the biography of Ren Mo, his courtesy name is Shuben. He was a native of Fan County, Shu County.
When he was young, he studied "Qi Shi", traveled to the capital, and taught his disciples for more than ten years.
When his friend Dong Fengde died of illness in Luoyang, Ren Mo personally pushed the deer cart to carry Dong Fengde's funeral to the cemetery, which made him famous.
He was a meritorious officer of the county and resigned due to illness.
Later, Ben died on the road at the funeral of his teacher.
summary:
Gao Xu, from Pingyuan, studied the *Lu Shi* and served as a doctor, but feigned blindness to avoid serving Wang Mang. Under Emperor Guangwu, he held various posts, including Grand Secretary of Agriculture, and died in office. Bao Xian, from Kuaiji, studied *Lu Shi* and the *Analects* under a doctor. Captured by Red Eyebrow rebels, he was released for chanting scriptures. He later taught the crown prince, wrote chapters on the *Analects*, and held high offices, receiving generous rewards from Emperor Xianzong. Wei Ying, from Rencheng, studied *Lu Shi* and taught hundreds of students. He became a doctor, minister, and later Grand Herald, known for his moral purity and large following. Fu Gong, from Langfu, inherited his uncle Fu An's teachings on *Qi Shi*, served as a county magistrate, and became a doctor. He simplified his uncle's complex chapters and was honored as Sikong. Ren Mo, from Shu, studied *Qi Shi* and gained fame for personally transporting his friend's funeral. Jing Luan, from Guanghan, studied *Qi Shi* and other texts, writing extensively on various classics. Xue Han, from Huaiyang, studied *Han Shi* and was a leading authority on poetry and prophecies, but died in prison. Du Fu, from Wuyang, studied under Xue Han and taught *Han Shi* to many disciples. Zhao Xun, from Jiujiang, studied *Han Shi* and served as a cavalry captain and tutor to princes. Yang Ren, from Ba, studied *Han Shi* and served as a doctor, known for his advice on governance. Zhao Ye, from Kuaiji, studied *Han Shi* under Du Fu and refused official posts.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
时济南徐巡师事宏，后从林受学，亦以儒显，由是古学大兴。
光武以为议郎。
宏作《汉旧仪》四篇，以载西京杂事；又著赋、颂、诔七首，皆传于世。
中兴后，郑众、贾逵传《毛诗》，后马融作《毛诗传》，郑玄作《毛诗笺》。
《前书》鲁高堂生，汉兴传《礼》十七篇。
后瑕丘萧奋以授同郡后苍，苍授梁人戴德及德兄子圣、沛人庆普。
于是德为《大戴礼》，圣为《小戴礼》，普为《庆氏礼》，三家皆立博士。
孔安国所献《礼》古经五十六篇及《周官经》六篇，前世传其书，未有名家。
中兴已后，亦有《大》、《小戴》博士，虽相传不绝，然未有显于儒林者。
建武中，曹充习庆氏学，传其子褒，遂撰《汉礼》，事在《褒传》。
董钧字文伯，犍为资中人也。
习《庆氏礼》。
事大鸿胪王临。
元始中，举明经，迁禀牺令。病去官。
建武中，举孝廉，辟司徒府。
钧博通古今，数言政事。
永平初，为博士。
时草创五郊祭祀，及宗庙礼乐，威仪章服，辄令钧参议，多见从用，当世称为通儒。
累迁五官中郎将，常教授门生百余人。
后坐事左转骑都尉。年七十余，卒于家。
中兴，郑众传《周官经》，后马融作《周官传》，授郑玄，玄作《周官注》。
玄本习《小戴礼》，后以古经校之，取其义长者，故为郑氏学。
玄又注小戴所传《礼记》四十九篇，通为《三礼》焉。
《前书》齐胡母子都传《公羊春秋》，授东平赢公，赢公授东海孟卿，孟卿授鲁人眭孟，眭孟授东海严彭祖、鲁人颜安乐。
彭祖为《春秋》严氏学，安乐为《春秋》颜氏学，又瑕丘江公传《穀梁春秋》，三家皆立博士。
梁太傅贾谊为《春秋左氏传训诂》，授赵人贯公。
丁恭字子然，山阳东缗人也。
习《公羊严氏春秋》。
恭学义精明，教授常数百人，州郡请召不应。
建武初，为谏议大夫、博士，封关内侯。
translation: 
At this time, Xu Xun of Jinan worshiped Wei Hong as his teacher, and later studied with Du Lin. He was also famous for Confucianism, and ancient learning flourished.
Guangwu was appointed as Yilang.
Wei Hong wrote four chapters of "Old Rites of the Han Dynasty", recording miscellaneous events in Xijing; he also wrote seven poems, odes and poems, all of which have been handed down to the world.
After the ZTE, Zheng Zhong and Jia Kui wrote "Mao's Poems", and later Ma Rong wrote "Mao's Poems" and Zheng Xuan wrote "Mao's Poems".
"Qianshu" contains seventeen chapters of "Li", a biography of Lu Gaotang's life in Han Dynasty.
Later, Xiao Fenyong from Xiaqiu was granted the title of Hou Cang, who was from the same county, and Hou Cang was granted the title of Dai Sheng, the son of Dai De and De's elder brother, who was from Liang, and Qingpu, who was from Pei.
So those who were grateful were called "Da Dai Li", those who were Dai Sheng were called "Xiao Dai Li", and those who were Qing Pu were called "Qing Shi Li". All three families established doctors.
Kong Anguo presented fifty-six chapters of the ancient "Li" and six chapters of the "Zhou Guan Jing". His books were handed down from previous generations, and there were no famous writers.
After the ZTE, there were also "Da Dai" and "Xiao Dai" doctors. Although they were passed down from generation to generation, none of them became famous among the scholars.
During the Jianwu period, Cao Chong studied the Qing clan and passed it on to his son Cao Bao, who wrote "Han Rites" and the events are recorded in the "Qingyan Biography".
◆In the biography of Dong Jun, Dong Jun was named Wenbo and was a native of Zizhong County, Qianwei County.
Learn "Qingshi Rites".
His teacher was Da Honglu, Wang Lin.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, he raised the Ming Sutra, promoted the animal sacrifice order, and resigned due to illness.
In Jianwu, he promoted filial piety and integrity and established Situ's mansion.
Dong Jun was well versed in ancient and modern knowledge and wrote many times about the pros and cons of political affairs.
At the beginning of Yongping, he was a doctor.
At this time, the five suburbs sacrifices and ancestral temple rituals and music were being created, as well as the majestic etiquette and uniforms. Dong Jun was often called to consult, and many of them were adopted. He was called Tongru at that time.
He has been promoted to general of the five sense organs, and often teaches more than a hundred students.
Later, he was demoted to the rank of Cavalry Commander due to some circumstances. He died at home when he was more than seventy years old.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, Zheng Zhong wrote the "Zhou Guan Jing", and later Ma Rong wrote the "Zhou Guan Zhuan", which was awarded to Zheng Xuan, and Zheng Xuan wrote the "Zhou Guan Annotation".
Zheng Xuan originally studied "Xiao Dai Li", but later used ancient scriptures to proofread it and adopted the best meanings in the ancient scriptures, so it was called Zheng's study.
Zheng Xuan also annotated forty-nine chapters of the "Book of Rites" passed down by Xiao Dai, which together are called "Three Rites".
According to the "Previous Book", both mother and son of Qi and Hu conferred the title of "Gongyang Chunqiu" to Duke Ying of Dongping, Duke Meng of Donghai was granted the title, Mengqing was granted the title Suimeng of Lu, and Suimeng was granted the title of Yan Pengzu of Donghai and Yan Anle of Lu.
Peng Zu studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", Anle studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", and Xia Qiu Jianggong passed down the "Gu Liang Chun Qiu". All three schools have Ph.D.
Jia Yi, Taifu of Liang Dynasty, compiled the "Exegesis of Zuo's Biography in the Spring and Autumn Period" and awarded it to Zhao Ren Guan Gong.
◆Ding Gong's biography, Ding Gong's courtesy name is Ziran, and he was born in Dongmin, Shanyang.
Study "Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Ding Gong was a shrewd scholar. He often taught hundreds of students and was often called upon by the prefectures and counties.
In the early days of Jianwu, he served as an admonition to the officials and doctors, and was granted the title of Marquis within the Pass.
summary:
The text also covers other traditions. Wei Hong, from Donghai, studied *Mao's Poems* and wrote a preface, as well as works on ancient texts. The *Li* (Rites) tradition is traced from Gao Tangsheng through Hou Cang to Dai De, Dai Sheng, and Qing Pu, with three schools establishing doctors. Dong Jun, from Qianwei, studied the *Qing Shi Rites* and was consulted on ritual matters. The *Spring and Autumn Annals* traditions are detailed: the *Gongyang* school had Yan and Jiang families, while the *Zuo* school was transmitted by Jia Yi. Ding Gong studied *Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals* and taught thousands of disciples. Zhou Ze, from Beihai, studied the same text and served as a doctor and minister, known for his honesty. Zhong Xing, from Runan, studied under Ding Gong and helped compile chapters for the crown prince. Zhen Yu, from Beihai, studied *Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals* and taught many students. Lou Wang, from Chenliu, studied the same text and became a leading Confucian with over 9,000 students. Cheng Zeng, from Yuzhang, studied *Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals* and wrote extensively. Zhang Xuan, from Hanoi, studied the same text and was admired for his erudition. Li Yu, from Fufeng, studied *Gongyang Chunqiu* and debated at the White Tiger Hall. He Xiu, from Rencheng, wrote a commentary on the *Gongyang* and refuted other interpretations. Fu Qian, from Henan, wrote a commentary on the *Zuo* tradition. Ying Rong, from Chen, studied the *Zuo* tradition and taught many disciples. Xie Gai, from Nanyang, was a famous scholar of the *Zuo* tradition. Xu Shen, from Runan, wrote *Shuowen Jiezi* and *Different Meanings of the Five Classics*. Cai Xuan, from Runan, taught thousands of disciples.

