Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 7, 18, 19, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
杨王孙者，孝武时人也。
学黄、老之术，家业千余，厚自奉养生，亡所不致。
及病且终，先令其子，曰： 吾欲裸葬，以反吾真，必亡易吾意。
死则为布囊盛尸，入地七尺，既下，从足引脱其囊，以身亲土。
其子欲默而不从，重废父命；欲从之，心又不忍，乃往见王孙友人祁侯。
祁侯与王孙书曰： 王孙苦疾，仆迫从上祠雍，未得诣前。
愿存精神，省思虑，进医药，厚自持。
窃闻王孙先令裸葬，令死者亡知则已，若其有知，是戮尸地下，将裸见先人，窃为王孙不取也。
且《孝经》曰 为之棺椁衣衾 ，是亦圣人之遗制，何必区区独守所闻？
愿王孙察焉。
王孙报曰： 盖闻古之圣王，缘人情不忍其亲，故为制礼，今则越之，吾是以裸葬，将以矫世也。
translation: 
Yang Wangsun was from the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Learn the art of Huang Lao, make a fortune, pay attention to health preservation, and try to get everything that is beneficial to health.
When he was critically ill and dying, he first ordered his son in his instructions: "When I die, I will be buried naked. Let me return to the way of nature. I must not change my wishes."
After death, I put the body in a cloth bag and put it seven feet into the ground. After putting it down, I pulled the cloth bag off my feet so that my body was in direct contact with the soil.
His son wanted to silently disobey, but found it difficult to disobey his father's orders; he wanted to obey his father's wishes, but he couldn't bear it, so he went to visit his father's friend Qi Hou.
Qi Hou wrote a letter to Yang Wangsun saying: You are suffering from illness. I was eager to follow the emperor to Yong County to offer sacrifices, so I was unable to visit you at the house.
I hope you can keep your spirits up, think less about problems, seek medical treatment, and take good care of yourself.
I heard that you made an order to be buried naked after death. If the deceased is unconscious, forget it. If the deceased is conscious, you will kill the body underground and go to see the ancestors naked. I don’t think you should do this.
Moreover, the "Book of Filial Piety" says that coffins, coffins, and quilts are provided for the deceased. This is also a system passed down by the saints. Why should you insist on your own opinions alone?
I hope you will review my comments.
Yang Wangsun wrote back and said: I heard that the ancient sage kings followed human feelings and did not suppress their relatives, so they planned funerals for people. Now they go beyond the etiquette regulations and practice rich burials. Therefore, I asked for a naked burial, intending to correct the social trend of rich burials.

summary:
summary line 0: Yang Wangsun, a man from Emperor Wu's reign, studied Huang-Lao teachings and focused on health preservation. When terminally ill, he ordered his son to bury him naked, directly in contact with soil, to return to nature. His son consulted their friend Qi Hou, who argued against this, citing filial piety traditions requiring coffins and burial clothes. Yang Wangsun responded that lavish burials were wasteful and harmful, preventing the dead from returning to their natural state. He argued that the spirit returns to heaven and the body to earth; elaborate burials only create mummies that cannot decompose properly. He insisted on naked burial, which was ultimately carried out.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
三王或誓于军中，欲民先成其虑也；或誓于军门之外，欲民先意以待事也；或将交刃而誓，致民志也。
建又何疑焉？
建由是显名。
后为渭城令，治甚有声。
值昭帝幼，皇后父上官将军安与帝姊盖主私夫丁外人相善。
外人骄恣，怨故京兆尹樊福，使客射杀之。
客臧公主庐，吏不敢捕。
渭城令建将吏卒围捕。
盖主闻之，与外人、上官将军多从奴客往，奔射追吏，吏散走。
主使仆射劾渭城令游徼伤主家奴。
建报亡它坐。
盖主怒，使人上书告建侵辱长公主，射甲舍门。
知吏贼伤奴，辟报故不穷审。
大将军霍光寝其奏。
后光病，上官氏代听事，下吏捕建，建自杀。
吏民称冤，至今渭城立其祠。
朱云字游，鲁人也，徙平陵。
少时通轻侠，借客报仇。
translation: 
King Yu of Xia, Tang of Shang, and King Wen of Zhou sometimes swore an oath in the army to ask the people to consider their own plans first; sometimes they swore an oath outside the military gate to ask the people to mentally prepare for war; sometimes they swore an oath when the two armies were about to confront each other to inspire the people's courage.
Why should you be suspicious?
Hu Jian became famous from then on.
Later, Hu Jian became the magistrate of Weicheng County and was famous for his achievements.
When Emperor Zhao was young, the queen's father, the hussar general Shangguan An, was very close to Ding Wairen, the lover of Emperor Zhao's sister, Princess Gaichang.
Foreigner Ding was arrogant and unruly. He resented his predecessor, Jing Zhao Yin Fanfu, so he sent an assassin to shoot him.
The assassin was hiding in the building owner's villa, and the officials did not dare to catch him.
Weicheng County Magistrate Hu Jian led officers and soldiers to surround the villa to arrest the assassin.
When Gai Zhu heard about it, he and his fellow Ding, Hussar General Shangguan'an, and many slaves and soldiers came over. They ran and shot at the officials, who then fled in all directions.
Lord Gai ordered his servants to impeach Weicheng County Magistrate Hu Jian, who sent a parade to injure Lord Gai's servants.
Hu Jian wrote a letter pleading that he was not guilty.
Lord Gai was very angry and sent a letter to falsely accuse Hu Jian of violating and insulting the eldest princess, and shot an arrow at the gate of Lord Gai's mansion.
Hu Jian knew clearly that his subordinate officials had harmed the princess's domestic slave, but he avoided retribution and deliberately did not pursue the investigation.
General Huo Guang suppressed their memorial.
Later, when Huo Guang fell ill, Shangguan Jie took charge of government affairs and ordered the officials to arrest Hu Jian. Hu Jian was forced to commit suicide.
Officials and people all said that he died unjustly, and his ancestral hall is still built in Weicheng.
Zhu Yun, whose courtesy name was You, was a native of Lu and later moved to Pingling.
When he was young, he made friends with the agile and powerful knights, and used the knights to take revenge.

summary:
summary line 1: Hu Jian served as a military official during Emperor Wu's Tianhan period. When a military censor illegally built a shop within the army fortress for profit, Hu Jian gathered his officers, seized and executed the censor on the spot. He submitted a memorial citing military law, arguing the censor's crime warranted death and that military officers could handle such matters without civilian court involvement. The emperor approved his actions, citing the principle that military and civil laws differ. Hu Jian later became magistrate of Weicheng County. During Emperor Zhao's reign, he arrested an assassin hiding in a noble's villa, angering Princess Gaichang and General Shangguan An. After General Huo Guang fell ill, Hu Jian was forced to commit suicide, though people considered his death unjust.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
迁杜陵令，坐故纵亡命，会赦，举方正，为槐里令。
时中书令石显用事，与充宗为党，百僚畏之。
唯御史中丞陈咸年少抗节，不附显等，而与云相结。
云数上疏，言丞相韦玄成容身保位，亡能往来，而咸数毁石显。
久之，有司考云，疑风吏杀人。
群臣朝见，上问丞相以云治行。
丞相玄成言云暴虐亡状。
时，陈咸在前，闻之，以语云。
云上书自讼，咸为定奏草，求下御史中丞。
事下丞相，丞相部吏考立其杀人罪。
云亡入长安，复与咸计议。
丞相具发其事，奏： 咸宿卫执法之臣，幸得进见，漏泄所闻，以私语云，为定奏草，欲令自下治，后知云亡命罪人，而与交通，云以故不得。
上于是下咸、云狱，减死为城旦。
咸、云遂废锢，终无帝世。
至成帝时，丞相故安昌侯张禹以帝师位特进，甚尊重。
云上书求见，公卿在前。
云曰： 今朝廷大臣上不能匡主，下亡以益民，皆尸位素餐，孔子所谓 鄙夫不可与事君 ， 苟患失之，亡所不至 者也。
臣愿赐尚方斩马剑，断佞臣一人以厉其余。
上问： 谁也？
对曰： 安昌侯张禹。
上大怒，曰： 小臣居下讪上，廷辱师傅，罪死不赦。
御史将云下，云攀殿槛，槛折。
云呼曰： 臣得下从龙逢、比干游于地下，足矣！
translation: 
Later, Zhu Yun was promoted to the county magistrate of Duling County. He was convicted of deliberately letting the outlaws go. When the emperor granted amnesty, he was recommended as Founder and became the magistrate of Huaili County.
At that time, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to have exclusive power and formed an alliance with Wulu Chongzong. All officials in the court were afraid of them.
Only Chen Xian, the censor Zhongcheng, was young and adhered to noble moral integrity. He did not rely on Shi Xian and others, but had friendship with Zhu Yun.
Zhu Yun went to court many times, saying that Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng was secure in his position and could not advance or retreat, while Chen Xian criticized Shi Xian many times.
After a long time, the relevant officials tortured Zhu Yun, suspecting that he secretly instigated the officials to kill.
When the officials met in court, Emperor Yuan asked Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng about Zhu Yun's achievements in government affairs.
Wei Xuancheng said that Zhu Yun was tyrannical and had no good governance.
Chen Xian was nearby at the time and heard what Wei Xuancheng said and told Zhu Yun.
Weiyun wrote a letter to defend himself, and Chen Xian drafted a draft memorial for him, requesting the emperor's approval to hand over the matter to Yushi Zhongcheng.
As a result, the emperor handed the matter over to the prime minister. Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng arranged for his subordinates to torture Zhu Yun and convicted Zhu Yun of murder.
Zhu Yun fled to Chang'an and approached Chen Xian to discuss countermeasures.
Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng found out all these things and reported to the emperor: Chen Xian, as a minister who stayed in the imperial palace and was in charge of laws and regulations, was fortunate enough to be able to see the emperor. However, he leaked what he heard and told Zhu Yun privately. He also drafted a draft of a memorial for Zhu Yun, hoping that the emperor would let him handle Zhu Yun's case. Later, he knew that Zhu Yun was a criminal who was on the run, but he colluded with him, so the officials could not catch Zhu Yun.
The emperor then ordered Chen Xian and Zhu Yun to be imprisoned and sentenced to death as a punishment.
Chen Xian and Zhu Yun were deposed and imprisoned until the death of Emperor Yuan.
When he became emperor, Zhang Yu, the former Prime Minister and Marquis of Anchang, was given a special position and favored by him because he was the emperor's teacher.
Zhu Yun wrote a letter asking for an audience. When the emperor summoned him, all the ministers and ministers were nearby.
Zhu Yun said: Nowadays, the ministers of the imperial court cannot help the monarch and cannot bring benefits to the people. They are all people who occupy empty positions and receive white-collar salaries and do not take care of the affairs. They are what Confucius said, "short-sighted people cannot assist the king. They are afraid of losing their favor and fortune, so there is nothing they can't do."
I hope that the emperor will give me Shang Fang's horse-killing sword to cut off the head of a sycophant minister as a warning to others.
The emperor asked: Who is it?
Zhu Yun replied: Zhang Yu, the Marquis of Anchang.
Emperor Cheng was very angry and said: A junior minister who slanders his superiors and insults my teacher in the court will be punished by death!
The imperial censor dragged Zhu Yun down to the palace. Zhu Yun clung to the railing in front of the palace and refused to move. As a result, the railing broke.
Zhu Yun shouted: I can go underground and hang out with Guan Longpang and Bigan, I am already satisfied!

summary:
summary line 2: Zhu Yun, originally a chivalrous man, later studied the Book of Changes and Analects. During Emperor Yuan's reign, he debated Wulu Chongzong on the Liangqiu interpretation of the Book of Changes, defeating him soundly. He became a doctor and later magistrate of several counties. He criticized powerful officials including Shi Xian and Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng. After being convicted of murder, he fled and sought help from Chen Xian, who was also imprisoned. During Emperor Cheng's reign, Zhu Yun requested the emperor's sword to kill sycophantic minister Zhang Yu. The emperor was furious and ordered his execution, but Zhu Yun clung to a palace railing, breaking it. General Xin Qingji intervened, and Zhu Yun was spared. He retired, taught students, and died at home in his seventies, requesting simple burial.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
《礼记》孔子曰： 丘，殷人也。
先师所共传，宜以孔子世为汤后。
上以其语不经，遂见寝。
至成帝时，梅福复言宜封孔子后以奉汤祀。
绥和元年，立二王后，推迹古文，以《左氏》、《穀梁》、《世本》、《礼记》相明，遂下诏封孔子世为殷绍嘉公。
语在《成纪》。
是时，福居家，常以读书养性为事。
至元始中，王莽颛政，福一朝弃妻子，去九江，至今传以为仙。
其后，人有见福于会稽者，变名姓，为吴市门卒云。云敞字幼孺，平陵人也。
师事同县吴章，章治《尚书经》为博士。
平帝以中山王即帝位，年幼，莽秉政，自号安汉公。
以平帝为成帝后，不得顾私亲，帝母及外家卫氏皆留中山，不得至京师。
translation: 
"Book of Rites" records Confucius' remarks: Confucius is a descendant of the Yin people.
The previous teachers taught it this way, and the descendants of Confucius should be the descendants of Shang Tang.
The emperor thought that what Kuang Heng said was not in line with the scriptures, so he kept his memorial in the palace without issuing it.
When he became emperor, Mei Fu wrote another letter saying that the descendants of Confucius should be named to inherit Shangtang's sacrifices.
In the first year of Suihe, he established the descendants of the two kings as kings of princes. He deduced and traced the traces of ancient written records and verified each other with "Zuo Zhuan", "Gu Liang Zhuan", "Shiben" and "Book of Rites", so he issued an edict to confer the descendants of Confucius as the Duke of Yin Shao.
The words are in "Chronicles of Emperor Cheng".
At this time, Mei Fu lived at home and often took reading and self-cultivation as his job.
During the Yuanshi period, when Wang Mang was in power, Mei Fu abandoned his wife and children one morning and went to Jiujiang. It is now said that he became a god.
After that, someone saw him in Kuaiji County. He changed his name and worked as a market servant in Wu County. Yunchang, named Youru, was born in Pingling.
He worshiped Wu Zhang, a native of the same county, as his teacher. Wu Zhang studied "Shang Shu Jing" and became a doctor.
Emperor Ping ascended the throne from the King of Zhongshan. He was young, and Wang Mang controlled the affairs of the state, with the white title of Anhan Gong.
With Emperor Ping as the heir of the emperor, Emperor Ping could no longer take care of his relatives. His mother, maternal grandparents, and uncle's Wei family all stayed in Zhongshan Kingdom and could not go to the capital Chang'an.

summary:
summary line 3: Mei Fu studied in Chang'an, mastering the Book of Documents and Guliang's Spring and Autumn Annals. He repeatedly submitted memorials criticizing the growing power of the Wang family and urging Emperor Cheng to recruit talented advisors. He warned that killing honest officials like Wang Zhang silenced criticism and endangered the state. He advocated establishing Confucius' descendants as heirs to the Shang dynasty's sacrifices. His advice was largely ignored. During Wang Mang's reign, Mei Fu abandoned his family and disappeared, later seen working as a market servant in Wu County under a false name.

Chunk 19: 
original: 
莽长子宇，非莽隔绝卫氏，恐帝长大后见怨。
宇与吴章谋，夜以血涂莽门，若鬼神之戒，冀以惧莽。
章欲因对其咎。
事发觉，莽杀宇，诛灭卫氏，谋所联及，死者百余人。
章坐要斩，磔尸东市门。
初，章为当世名儒，教授尤盛，弟子千余人，莽以为恶人党，皆当禁锢，不得仕宦。
门人尽更名他师。
敞时为大司徒掾，自劾吴章弟子，收抱章尸归，棺敛葬之，京师称焉。
车骑将军王舜高其志节，比之栾布，表奏以为掾，荐为中郎谏大夫。
莽篡位，王舜为太师，复荐敞可辅职。
以病免。
唐林言敞可典郡，擢为鲁郡大尹。
更始时，安车征敞为御史大夫，复病免去，卒于家。
translation: 
Wang Mang's eldest son, Wang Zi, blamed Wang Mang for isolating the Wei family and worried that Emperor Ping would be resentful when he grew up.
Wang Yu and Wu Zhang conspired to smear blood on Wang Mang's door late at night, pretending to be a warning from ghosts and gods, in an attempt to frighten Wang Mang.
Wu Zhang planned to take the opportunity to point out Wang Mang's fault in countermeasures.
After the incident was discovered, Wang Mang killed his son Wang Yu and executed the Wei family. Everyone involved in the conspiracy was imprisoned and more than a hundred people were executed.
Wu Zhang was cut in half and his body was quartered at Shushi Gate.
At the beginning, Wu Zhang was a famous Confucian in the world. He was particularly famous as a professor of "Shangshu" and had more than a thousand disciples. Wang Mang regarded them as a group of evil people, and they were all condemned and imprisoned, and they were not allowed to be officials.
As a result, Wu Zhang's disciples all accepted other people as their teachers and kept secret that they were Wu Zhang's disciples.
Yun Chang was serving as Chief Situ at that time. He admitted that he was Wu Zhang's disciple. He collected Wu Zhang's body and returned home. He bought a coffin for burial and everyone in the capital praised him.
Wang Shun, the general of chariot and cavalry, admired his ambition and integrity and compared him to Le Bu. He petitioned the emperor to approve Yun Chang's appointment as his subordinate, and later recommended him as Zhonglang's admonition to the doctor.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Wang Shun was appointed as the Grand Master and recommended Yun Chang to be appointed as the assistant minister.
Yun Chang said he was ill and was exempted from official duties.
Tang Lin said that Yun Chang could be in charge of the county's political affairs, so Wang Mang promoted him to Dayin of Lu County.
At the beginning of the revolution, the imperial court used an automobile to recruit Yunchang to serve as the imperial censor. He resigned due to illness and later died at home.

summary:
summary line 4: Yun Chang studied under Wu Zhang, a famous scholar of the Book of Documents. When Wu Zhang was executed for conspiring against Wang Mang, his disciples denied their connection. Yun Chang alone admitted being Wu Zhang's student, collected his body, and arranged proper burial. He later served as an official under Wang Mang but resigned due to illness and died at home.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
赞曰： 昔仲尼称不得中行，则思狂狷。
观杨王孙之志，贤于秦始皇远矣。
世称朱云多过其实，故曰： 盖有不知而作之者，我亡是也。
胡建临敌敢断，武昭于外。
斩伐奸隙，军旅不队。
梅福之辞，合于《大雅》，虽无老成，尚有典刑；殷监不远，夏后所闻。
遂从所好，全性市门。
云敞之义，著于吴章，为仁由己，再入大府，清则濯缨，何远之有？
translation: 
Zanri: In the past, Confucius said that if you can't meet a mediocre person and discuss the Tao with him, you should think about making progress and do nothing.
Looking at Yang Wangsun's ambition, it is far better than Qin Shihuang's.
The world's praise of Zhu Yunduo is exaggerated, so the Analects of Confucius says: There may be people who do not know the situation and just describe it casually. I, Confucius, do not do this.
Hu Jian dared to make decisions when facing the enemy, and his bravery was evident externally.
Kill the evildoers so that the army will not be lazy.
Mei Fu's words are consistent with the Book of Songs.
Meifu finally followed her own preferences and preserved her temperament in Wuxian City.
Yun Chang's integrity was revealed from the burial of Wu Zhang. He did benevolent and righteous deeds by himself, first as a great situ, and then as a general of chariots and cavalry. When there was trouble, he became an official, and when there was chaos, he lived in seclusion. His approach was very different from "Chu Ci".

summary:
summary line 5: The commentary praises Yang Wangsun's noble aspirations, Hu Jian's decisive bravery, and Mei Fu's principled words. Yun Chang's integrity was revealed through burying his teacher, and he wisely withdrew from service during troubled times.

