Chunk 0: 
original: 
杜笃字季雅，京兆杜陵人也。
高祖延年，宣帝时为御史大夫。
笃少博学，不修小节，不为乡人所礼。
徒垂意于持平守实，务在爱育元元，苟有便于王政者，圣主纳焉。
何则？物罔挹而不损，道无隆而不移，阳盛则运，阴满则亏，故存不忘亡，安不讳危，虽有仁义，犹设城池也。客以利器不可久虚，而国家亦不忘乎西都，何必去洛邑之渟瀯与？
笃后仕郡文学掾。以目疾，二十余年不窥京师。
笃之外高祖破羌将军辛武贤，以武略称。
笃常叹曰： 杜氏文明善政，而笃不任为吏；辛氏秉义经武，而笃又怯于事。
外内五世，至笃衰矣！
女弟适扶风马氏。
建初三年，车骑将军马防击西羌，请笃为从事中郎，战没于射姑山。
所著赋、诔、吊、书、赞、《七言》、《女诫》及杂文，凡十八篇。
又著《明世论》十五篇。
子硕，豪侠，以货殖闻。
translation: 
◆The biography of Du Du, named Jiya, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
The great ancestor was Du Yannian, who served as a censor during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
When Du Du was young, he was very knowledgeable and did not practice small things. The people in the village did not treat him well.
He lived in Meiyang and had good relations with Meiyang Ling. He asked him to do things for him many times, but Meiyang Ling didn't do it for him and hated him. In anger, Meiyang Ling arrested Du Du and sent him to the capital.
When the great Sima Wu Han passed away, Guangwu ordered all the Confucian scholars to express condolences. Du Du wrote an edict in prison with elegant speech. Guangwu praised him for his good writing and gave him silk and exempted him from punishment. Du Du believed that the mountains inside Guanzhong and the river outside were the former capital of the late emperor, and Luoyi should not be rebuilt, so he wrote a "Fu on the Capital" and presented it to the emperor.
Du Du later became an official in the county literature department, but due to eye disease, he did not go to the capital for more than 20 years.
Du Du's maternal great-grandfather, Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian, was famous for his military strategies.
Du Du often sighed and said: Du's civilization is good at politics, but Du Du is not appointed as an official. Xin's upright and martial, but Du is timid and afraid of getting into trouble.
Five generations have passed, but my generation has declined!
Du Du's sister married the Ma family in Fufeng.
In the third year of Jianxin, the chariot and cavalry general Ma Fang attacked the Xiqiang. He asked Du Du to be his lieutenant and died in the battle at Shegu Mountain.
Du Du wrote a total of eighteen articles including Fu, Elegy, Diao, Shu, Zan, "Seven Characters", "Nv's Commandments" and essays.
He also wrote fifteen chapters of "Lun on the Ming Dynasty".
His son Du Gu is a heroic hero and famous for his business.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
王隆字文山，冯翊云阳人也。
王莽时，以父任为郎，后避难河西，为窦融左护军。
建武中，为新汲令。
能文章，所著诗、赋、铭、书凡二十六篇。
初，王莽末，沛国史岑子孝亦以文章显，莽以为谒者，著颂、诔、《复神》、《说疾》凡四篇。
夏恭字敬公，梁国蒙人也。
习《韩诗》、《孟氏易》，讲授门徒常千余人。
王莽末，盗贼从横，攻没郡县。恭以恩信为众所附，拥兵固守，独安全。
光武即位，嘉其忠果，召拜郎中，再迁太山都尉。
和集百姓，甚得其欢心。
恭善为文，著赋、颂、诗、《励学》凡二十篇。
年四十九卒官，诸儒共谥曰宣明君。
子牙，少习家业，著赋、颂、赞、诔凡四十篇。
建初中，肃宗博召文学之士，以毅为兰台令史，拜郎中，与班固、贾逵共典校书。
毅追美李明皇帝功德最盛，而庙颂未立，乃依《清庙》作《显宗颂》十篇奏之，由是文雅显于朝廷。
车骑将军马防，外戚尊重，请毅为军司马，待以师友之礼。
translation: 
◆Biography of Wang Long, whose courtesy name is Wenshan and Feng Yi was born in Yunyang.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was appointed as Lang because of his father's relationship. Later he fled to Hexi and served as Dou Rong's left guard.
In Jianwu, he served as the magistrate of Xinji County.
He is capable of articles and has written a total of twenty-six poems, poems, inscriptions and books.
At that time, in the last years of Wang Mang, Cen Zixiao, the historian of Pei State, was also famous for his articles. Wang Mang was appointed as the emissary and wrote four articles in total: eulogy, elegance, "Fu Shen" and "Shuo Ji".
According to the biography of Xia Gong, Xia Gong was named Jinggong and was a native of Meng, Liang State.
He studied "Han Shi" and "Mencius' Book of Changes" and had thousands of disciples.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, thieves emerged and captured the prefectures and counties. Because of his kindness and trust, Xia Gong was attached to the people, and he defended the area with troops, thus gaining safety.
Guangwu ascended the throne, praised him for his loyalty and courage, called him a doctor, and then promoted him to the captaincy of Taishan.
He gathered the people and was very popular with them.
Xia Gong is good at writing articles, and has written a total of 20 fus, odes, poems and "Encouraging Learning".
He died in office at the age of forty-nine, and all the Confucian scholars jointly gave him the posthumous title "Xuanmingjun".
His son Xia Ya learned a lot when he was young and wrote a total of forty poems, poems, poems and poems.
When the junior middle school was built, Suzong recruited literary scholars extensively, appointed Fu Yi as the Lantai Lingshi, and was awarded the title of doctor. Together with Ban Gu and Jia Kui, he was in charge of the correction of books.
Fu Yi believed that Emperor Xiaoming had the highest merit, but there were no temple odes, so he imitated the "Qing Temple" and wrote ten "Xianzong Odes" to commemorate the emperor. His elegance became famous in the court.
As a relative of the general Ma Fang, he respected Fu Yi very much. He asked Fu Yi to serve as army commander and treated him with the courtesy of a master and friend.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
及马氏败，免官归。
永元元年，车骑将军窦宪，复请毅为主记室，崔骃为主簿。
及宪迁大将军，复以毅为司马，班固为中护军。宪府文章之盛，冠于当世。
毅早卒，著诗、赋、诔、颂、祝文、《七激》、连珠凡二十八篇。
黄香字文强，江夏安陆人也。
年九岁，失母，思慕憔悴，殆不免丧，乡人称其至孝。
年十二，大守刘护闻而召之，署门下孝子，甚见爱敬。
香家贫，内无仆妾，躬执苦勤，尽心奉养。
遂博学经典，究精道术，能文章，京师号曰 天下无双江夏黄童 。
初除郎中，元和元年，肃宗诏香诣东观，读所未尝见书。
香后告休，及归京师，时千乘王冠，帝会中山邸，乃诏香殿下，顾谓诸王曰： 此 天下无双江夏黄童 者也。
左右莫不改观。
后召诣安福殿言政事，拜尚书郎，数陈得失，赏赉增加。
常独止宿台上，昼夜不离省闼，帝闻善之。
translation: 
Ma's family was defeated and was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the first year of Yongyuan, Dou Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry, asked Fu Yi to take charge of the record office and Cui Xiang to take charge of the book.
Dou Xian was promoted to general, Fu Yi was appointed Sima, Ban Gu was appointed as the Central Protector, and General Dou Xian was promoted to general. His articles were the most prosperous at that time.
Fu Yi died young and wrote a total of 28 poems, fuses, poems, odes, congratulations, "Qi Ji" and lianzhu.
◆Huang Xiangzhuan, whose courtesy name is Wenqiang, was from Anlu County, Jiangxia County.
I lost my mother at the age of nine. I miss her so much that I feel haggard and almost dead. The villagers praised him as a filial son.
When he was twelve years old, the prefect Liu Hu heard about it and summoned him as a "filial son". He liked him very much and respected him.
Huang Xiang's family was poor and he had no concubines. He worked hard and took care of himself. He also recited classics extensively, studied Taoism, and wrote good articles.
There is a popular saying in the capital: Jiangxia Huangtong is unparalleled in the world.
He was first appointed as a doctor. In the first year of Yuanhe, Emperor Suzong ordered Huang Xiang to go to Dongguan. Huang Xiang read books he had never seen before.
Huang Xiang later asked for leave. When he returned to the capital, King Qiancheng performed a crowning ceremony. The emperor summoned Huang Xiang to His Highness at his Zhongshan mansion. Looking back at the kings, he said: This is Jiangxia Huangtong who is unparalleled in the world.
Everyone around him looked at him differently.
Later, he was summoned to the Anfu Hall to discuss political affairs, and was awarded the title of Shangshulang. He stated the gains and losses of the court many times, and the rewards increased.
I once slept alone on the stage, never leaving the palace gate day and night. The emperor heard about it and praised him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
永元四年，拜左丞。功满当迁，和帝留，增秩。
六年，累迁尚书令。
后以为东郡太守，香上疏让曰： 臣江淮孤贱，愚矇小生，经学行能，无可算录。
遭值太平，先人余福，得以弱冠特蒙征用，连阶累任，遂极台阁。
讫无纤介称，报恩效死，诚不意悟。卒被非望，显拜近郡，尊位千里。
臣闻量能授官，则职无废事；因劳施爵，则贤愚得宜。
臣香小丑，少为诸生，典郡从政，固非所堪。
诚恐矇顿，孤忝圣恩。
又惟机密端首，至为尊要，复非臣香所当久奉。
承诏惊惶，不知所裁。
臣香年在方刚，适可驱使。
愿乞余恩，留备冗官，赐以督责小职，任之宫台烦事，以毕臣香蝼蚁小志，诚瞑目至愿，土灰极荣。
帝亦惜香干用，久习旧事，复留为尚书令，增秩二千石，赐钱三十万。
是后遂管枢机，甚见亲重，而香亦祗勤物务，忧公如家。十二年，东平清河奏訞言卿仲辽等，所连及且千人。
香料别据奏，全活甚众。
每郡国疑罪，辄务求轻科，爱惜人命，每存忧济。
又晓习边事，均量军政，皆得事宜。
帝知其精勤，数加恩赏。疾病存问，赐医药。
在位多所荐达，宠遇甚盛，议者讥其过幸。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, he was awarded Zuo Cheng. After his merits were fulfilled, he should be promoted. Emperor He retained him and increased his salary.
In six years, he was promoted to Shangshu Ling.
Later, he was appointed as the prefect of Dongjun. Huang Xiang resigned and said: "I am a lonely, humble, ignorant and ignorant person in the Jianghuai area. I have nothing to say about my Confucian classics, conduct, and ability."
Encountering a peaceful and prosperous age, he received the remaining blessings from his ancestors, so he was able to be recruited by the emperor when he was weak and promoted continuously, even to the minister.
So far, he has no meritorious deeds that can be described. He should have died in repayment of his kindness, but unexpectedly, he was appointed as the prefect of the nearby county of the capital, and his position was thousands of miles away.
I heard that when people are awarded officials based on their ability, they will do a good job, and when they are awarded titles based on their merit, the wise and the foolish will all be in their proper place.
I, Huang Xiang, am an unknown person, born in various sects, guarding a county and serving in politics, and I am not qualified for the job.
I'm really afraid that because of my confusion, I will live up to the emperor's kindness.
I also think that the post of Shangshuling is the most confidential and noble, and it is not something that I, Huang Xiang, should hold for a long time.
After receiving the emperor's edict, I was terrified and didn't know what to do.
I, Huang Xiang, am young and just driven.
I would like to beg for mercy, stay as a redundant official, supervise minor duties, do some chores in the palace, and realize my yellow-scented ant-like ambition. This is my great wish until death, and it will be a great honor after my death.
The emperor also loved Huang Xiang's ability and studied history for a long time. He still stayed on as minister, increased his salary by 2,000 dan and gave him 300,000 yuan. From then on, he was in charge of secrets, trusted him very much, and used him highly.
Huang Xiang also works diligently and worries about state affairs as well as family affairs. In the twelfth year, Dongping and Qinghe reported that the court minister Zhong Liao and others had spread rumors to confuse the public and implicated nearly a thousand people.
Huang Xiang told the truth and saved many people.
Suspicious cases in the county and state are often dealt with lightly, and human life is cherished, but I am afraid that I cannot do it.
He is also familiar with border defense affairs. The deployment of military and political affairs is very appropriate.
The emperor knew that he worked hard for the country and rewarded him many times. He expressed condolences when he was sick and gave him medicine.
There were many recommendations during his reign, and the emperor was very fond of him. Public opinion ridiculed him for being overly favored.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
延平元年，迁魏郡太守。
郡旧有内外园田，常与人分种，收谷岁数千斛。
香曰： 《田令》 商者不农 ，《王制》 仕者不耕 ，伐冰食禄之人，不与百姓争利。
乃悉以赋人，课令耕种。
时被水年肌，乃分奉禄及所得赏赐班赡贫者，于是丰富之家各出义谷，助官禀贷，荒民获全。
后坐水潦事免，数月，卒于家。
所著贼、笺、奏、书、令、凡五篇。子琼，自有传。
刘毅，北海敬王子也。
初封平望侯，永元中，坐事夺爵。
毅少有文辩称。
元初元年，上《汉德论》并《宪论》十二篇。
时，刘珍、邓耽、尹兑、马融共上书称其美，安帝嘉之，赐钱三万，拜议郎。
李尤字伯仁，广汉雒人也。
少以文章显。
和帝时，侍中贾逵荐尤有相如、杨雄之风，召诣东观，受诏作赋，拜兰台令史。
translation: 
In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to the prefect of Wei County.
The county originally had inner and outer gardens, which were often planted separately with others, and thousands of dendrobiums could be harvested a year.
Huang Xiang said: "Tian Ling" states that merchants do not farm, "King System" states that officials do not cultivate fields, and those who are paid as officials do not compete with the people for profits.
As soon as he entered the county, he rented out the inner and outer gardens to others for cultivation.
There was a flood that year and the people were starving. So he distributed his wages and rewards to the poor, and the rich households also provided charity grain to make up for the shortfall in public loans, and the hungry people were preserved.
Later, he was dismissed from office due to financial difficulties, and died at home a few months later.
He wrote a total of five poems, notes, memorials, books and orders. There is another biography about his son Huang Qiong.
◆Liu Yi Chuan, Liu Yi, the son of King Jing of Beihai.
First, he was granted the title of Marquis Pingwang. In Yongyuanzhong, he was granted the title of nobility after being convicted.
When Liu Yi was young, he was famous for his talent in literary debate.
In the first year of the early Yuan Dynasty, he published twelve chapters of "Lun on Han De" and "Lun on Constitution".
At that time, Liu Zhen, Deng Dan, Yin Dui, and Ma Rong jointly wrote a letter saying that Liu Yi had written well. Emperor An commended him, gave him 30,000 yuan, and granted him the title of Yilang.
◆The biography of Li You, whose courtesy name is Boren, was from Luoxian County, Guanghan.
When he was young, he was famous for his articles.
During the reign of Emperor He, the servant Jia Kui recommended Li You to have the style of Sima Xiangru and Yang Xiong. He was summoned to Dongguan, where he was ordered to compose a poem and was given the history of Lantai Order.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
稍迁，安帝时为谏议大夫，受诏与谒者仆射刘珍等俱撰《汉记》。
后帝废太子为济阴王，尤上书谏争。
顺帝立，迁乐安相。
年八十三卒。所著诗、赋、铭、诔、颂、《七叹》、《哀典》，凡二十八篇。
尤同郡李胜，亦有文才，为东观郎，著赋、诔、颂、论数十篇。
苏顺字孝山，京兆霸陵人也。
和安间以才学见称。
好养生术，隐处求道。
晚乃仕，拜郎中，卒于官。
所著贼、论、诔、哀辞、杂文，凡十六篇。
时，三辅多士，扶风曹众伯师亦有才学，著诔、书、论四篇。
又有曹朔，不知何许人，作《汉颂》四篇。
刘珍字秋孙，一名宝，南阳蔡阳人也。
少好学。
永初中，为谒者仆射。
邓太后诏，使与校书刘騊駼、马融及《五经》博士，校定东观《五观》、诸子传记、百家艺术，整齐脱误，是正文字。
永宁元年，太后又诏珍与騊駼作建武已来名臣传，迁侍中、越骑校尉。
延光四年，拜宗正。
明年，转卫尉，卒官。
translation: 
After a slight promotion, he became an admonishing official when he reached Emperor An. He was ordered to co-author the "Han Ji" with Liu Zhen, the admonishing official.
Later, Emperor An deposed the prince as King of Jiyin, and Li You wrote a letter to remonstrate.
Shun the emperor was established, and he was promoted to Le An.
He died at the age of eighty-three. He wrote a total of 28 poems, poems, inscriptions, poems, odes, "Seven Sighs" and "Elegies".
Li Sheng, a native of Li Youtong County, was also talented in literature. He served as Dongguan Lang and wrote dozens of poems, poems, poems and essays.
◆Su Shun's biography, Su Shun's courtesy name is Xiaoshan, and he was born in Baling, Jingzhao.
During the reign of Emperor He and Emperor An, he was famous for his talent and learning.
He likes health-preserving techniques and lives in seclusion to seek the Tao.
He became an official in his later years, was awarded the title of doctor, and died in office.
He wrote a total of sixteen poems, essays, poems, laments and essays.
At that time, the talents of the three assistants were very prosperous. Cao Zhong and Bo Shi of Fufeng were also talented and learned. They wrote four edicts, books and treatises.
There was also Cao Shuo, who came from an unknown place and wrote four chapters of "Ode to the Han Dynasty".
◆The biography of Liu Zhen, Liu Zhen courtesy name Qiusun, Mingbao, was from Caiyang County, Nanyin County.
He was eager to learn when he was young.
In Yongjun Middle School, I served as a servant to pay homage.
Empress Dowager Deng ordered Liu Mayu, Ma Rong, and Doctor of the Five Classics to collate Dongguan's Five Classics, the biographies of various scholars, and the art of hundreds of schools of thought, sorting out the errors and corrections.
In the first year of Yongning, the Queen Mother ordered Liu Zhen and Liu Mayu to write biographies of famous officials since the founding of the Wu Dynasty, and they were promoted to Shizhong and Yueqi Xiaowei.
In the fourth year of Yanguang reign, he was awarded Zongzheng.
In the second year, he was transferred to Weiwei and died in office.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
著诔、颂、连珠凡七篇。
又撰《释名》三十篇，以辩万物之称号云。
葛龚字元甫，梁国宁陵人也。
和帝时，以善文记知名。
性慷慨壮烈，勇力过人。
安帝永初中，举孝廉，为太官丞，上便宜四事，拜荡阴令。
辟太尉府，病不就。
州举茂才，为临汾令。
居二县，皆有称绩。
著文、贼、碑、诔、书记，凡十二篇。
王逸字叔师，南郡宜城人也。
元初中，举上计吏，为校书郎。
顺帝时，为侍中。
著《楚辞章句》行于世。
其赋、诔、书、论及杂文，凡二十一篇。
又作《汉诗》百二十三篇。
子延寿，字文考，有俊才。
少游鲁国，作《灵光殿赋》。
后蔡邕亦造此赋，未成，及见延寿所为，甚奇之，遂辍翰而已。
曾有异梦，意恶之，乃作《梦赋》以自厉。
后溺水死，时年二十余。
translation: 
There are seven chapters in total including poems, poems, and poems.
He also wrote thirty chapters of "Shiming" to clarify the names of all things.
◆Ge Gong's biography, Ge Gong's courtesy name is Yuanfu, and he was a native of Ningling, Liang State.
During the reign of Emperor He, he was famous for his writing skills and writing skills.
He has a generous and heroic temperament and extraordinary courage.
In the junior high school of An Diyong, he was promoted to be a filial and honest man, and he was promoted to a grand official. He was given four instructions on what should be done for the benefit of the country, and was given the order of Dang Yin.
He was summoned to the Taiwei Mansion, but he couldn't go because of illness.
The state promoted the most talented people and appointed them as Linfen magistrates.
In the two counties of Dangyin and Linfen where he was appointed, he had political achievements and was praised by others.
There are a total of twelve articles, poems, steles, poems and secretaries.
◆Wang Yizhuan, Wang Yizhi's uncle, was a native of Yicheng, Nanjun.
In the junior high school of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to a planner and became the school secretary.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he served as a servant.
The author of "Chu Ci Chapters and Sentences" has spread throughout the world.
There are twenty-one poems, poems, books, essays and essays in total.
He also wrote 123 chapters of "Chinese Poems".
His son, Wang Yanshou, was a man of literary and artistic talents.
When he was young, he traveled to the state of Lu and wrote "Ode to Lingguang Palace".
Later, Cai Yong also wrote this poem, but it was not completed. When he saw Yanshou's work, he admired it very much, so he stopped writing it.
I once had a strange dream, which was very unpleasant, so I wrote a "Dream Ode" to encourage myself.
Later, he fell into the water and drowned. He was only in his twenties.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
崔琦字子玮，涿郡安平人，济北相瑗之宗也。
少游学京师，以文章博通称。
初举考廉，为郎。
梁冀见之，呼琦问曰： 百官外内，各有司存，天下云云，岂独吾人之尤，君何激刺之过乎！
琦对曰： 昔管仲相齐，乐闻机谏之言；萧何佐汉，乃设书过之吏。
今将军累世台辅，任齐伊、公，而德政未闻，黎元涂炭。不能结纳贞良，以救祸败，反复欲钳塞士口，杜蔽主听，将使玄黄改色，马鹿易形乎？
冀无以对，因遣琦归。
后除为临济长，不敢之职，解印绶去。
冀遂令刺客阴求杀之。
客见琦耕于陌上，怀书一卷，息辄偃而咏之。
客哀其志，以实告琦，曰： 将军令吾要子，今见君贤者，情怀忍忍。可亟自逃，吾亦于此亡矣。
琦得脱走，冀后竟捕杀之。
translation: 
◆Cui Qi's biography, Cui Qi's courtesy name is Ziwei, a native of Anping, Zhuo County, and the ancestor of Cui Yuan, Prime Minister of Jibei Province.
When he was young, he studied in the capital and was famous for his extensive articles.
First, he should be filial and honest, and be a man.
Henan Yinliangji heard that Cui Qi was talented and asked to be friends with him. Liang Ji committed many illegal acts, and Cui Qi repeatedly quoted ancient and modern successes and failures to admonish him. Liang Ji could not accept it, so he wrote "Admonitions to Foreign Relatives". Cui Qi was very frustrated because his words were not accepted by Liang Ji, so he wrote "White Bird Ode" to persuade him. Liang Ji looked at it, called Cui Qi and asked: "Everyone inside and outside the officials has his own business. The world is so vast, are we the only ones who are particularly bad?" You may have overstimulated it a little too much!
Cui Qi replied: In the past, when Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi, he was willing to listen to advice; Xiao He assisted Han Gaozu and established officials with secretaries.
Now the generals have been prime ministers for several generations, like Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, but their virtues are not obvious and the people are miserable. You can't recruit honest and good people to save the disaster. Instead, you want to silence people and cover the ears of the Lord. Are you trying to change the color of black and yellow and the deformation of red deer?
Liang Ji had no answer and sent Cui Qi back.
Later, he was appointed as the head of Linji, but he did not dare to take up the post, so Jie Yinshou left.
Liang Ji ordered the assassin to kill him secretly.
The assassin saw Cui Qi plowing fields on the road with a book in his arms. He was lying on the ridge and chanting while resting.
The assassin took pity on him and told Cui Qi the truth: General Liang wants me to kill you. You are a wise man and I can't bear to do it. You should run away quickly and I will run away from now on.
Cui Qi was able to escape, but Liang Ji finally arrested and killed him.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
所著赋、颂、铭、诔、箴、吊、论、《九咨》、《七言》，凡十五篇。
边韶字孝先，陈留浚仪人也。
以文章知名，教授数百人。
韶口辩，曾昼日假卧，弟子私嘲之曰： 边孝先，腹便便。懒读书，但欲眠。
韶潜闻之，应时对曰： 边为姓、孝为字。
腹便便，《五经》笥。
但欲眠，思经事。
寐与周公通梦，静与孔子同意。
师而可嘲，出何典记？
嘲者大惭。
韶之才捷皆此类也。
桓帝时，为临颍侯相，征拜太中大夫，著作东观。
再迁北地太守，入拜尚书令。
后为陈相，卒官。
著诗、颂、碑、铭、书、策，凡十五篇。
translation: 
He wrote poems, odes, inscriptions, poems, proverbs, condolences, treatises, "Nine Consultations" and "Seven Characters", totaling fifteen articles.
◆The biography of Bian Shao, whose courtesy name is Xiaoxian, was born in Junyi County, Chenliu County.
Famous for writing articles, he taught hundreds of students.
Bian Shao was very eloquent, and he once slept in bed during the day. The students secretly laughed and said: "Bian Xiaoxian has a loose stomach, is too lazy to study, and just wants to sleep."
Bian Shao listened quietly and replied promptly: Bian is the surname and Xiao is the character.
Abdominal defecation, "Five Classics" 笥.
I just want to sleep and think about things.
Mei and Zhou Gong communicated about their dreams, Jing agreed with Confucius.
If you are a teacher, you can laugh at it, so what can be said about it?
The students who laughed at him felt ashamed.
Bian Shao's talents are agile, most of them are like this.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he served as the Prime Minister of Linying, conscripted the great and middle-level officials, and engaged in writing in Dongguan.
Then he was promoted to the governor of the north, and entered the court to be granted the title of Shangshu.
Later he became Prime Minister Chen and died in office.
He wrote a total of fifteen poems, odes, steles, inscriptions, books and policies.


