Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝桓皇帝讳志，肃宗曾孙也。祖父河间孝王开，父蠡吾侯翼，母匽氏。
翼卒，帝袭爵为侯。
本初元年，梁太后征帝到夏门亭，将妻以女弟。
会质帝崩，太后遂与兄大将军冀定策禁中，闰月庚寅，使冀持节，以王青盖车迎帝入南宫，其日即皇帝位，时年十五。
太后犹临朝政。
秋七月乙卯，葬孝质皇帝于静陵。
齐王喜薨。
辛巳，谒高庙、光武庙。
丙戌，诏曰： 孝廉、廉吏皆当典城牧民，禁奸举善，兴化之本，恒必由之。
诏书连下，分明恳恻，而在所玩习，遂至怠慢，选举乖错，害及元元。
顷虽颇绳正，犹未惩改。
方今淮夷未殓，军师屡出，百姓疲悴，困于征发。庶望群吏，惠我劳民，蠲涤贪秽，以祈休详。
其令秩满百石，十岁以上，有殊才异行，乃得参选。
臧吏子孙，不得察举。
杜绝邪伪请托之原。令廉白守道者得信其操。
各明守所司，将观厥后。
九月戊戌，追尊皇祖河间孝王曰孝穆皇，夫人赵氏曰孝穆皇后，皇考蠡吾侯曰孝崇皇。
冬十月甲午，尊皇母匽氏为孝崇博园贵人。
建和元年春正月辛亥朔，日有食之。
诏三公、九卿、校尉各言得失。
戊午，大赦天下。
赐史更劳一岁；男子爵，人二级，为父后及三老、孝悌、力田人三级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛；贞妇帛，人三匹。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaohuan Liu Zhi, the great-grandson of Emperor Suzong Zhang, his grandfather Liu Kai, Xiaowang of Hejian, his father Liu Yi, Marquis of Liwu, and his mother's family.
After Liu Yi's death, Liu Zhi assumed the title of Marquis of Liwu.
In the first year of this century, Empress Dowager Liang summoned Liu Zhi to Xiamen Pavilion in Luoyang City, intending to marry her sister to Liu Zhi.
When Emperor Zhi passed away, the Empress Dowager Liang and her brother, General Liang Ji, made decisions in the palace. On the seventh day of the intercalary lunar month, Liang Ji was sent to hold the Fujie and carry Liu Zhi into the Nangong Palace in a Wang Qinggai chariot. On this day, he ascended the throne at the age of fifteen.
The Empress Dowager Liang was still in charge of the government.
On the second day of July in autumn, Emperor Xiaozhi was buried in Jingling.
King Liu happy of Qi passed away.
On the 28th, I visited Gaomiao Temple and Guangwu Temple.
In Bingxu, the edict said: People who are filial and honest, and officials who are not greedy and bend the law, should guard the land and herdsmen, prohibit evil and evil, do true and good things, and the foundation of prosperity and enlightenment often comes from here.
The edicts were issued one after another, expressing clear and sincere compassion. However, all units neglected, ignored, and were lazy and careless, and the selection and recommendation were messy, which was unpopular and harmed the people.
Although there have been some slight corrections recently, I have not yet deeply learned the lessons and repented of my past mistakes.
Now the bandits in Huaiyi have not been eliminated, and the troops are attacking one after another, leaving the people tired and haggard, and trapped in the predicament of being on duty. I hope that all officials will benefit the working people and clean up corruption and filth in order to obtain happiness and good fortune.
Only those with an official rank of over a hundred stones, who have served for more than ten years, and who have special talents and special behaviors can participate in the selection.
The descendants of officials who have engaged in corruption and bribery shall not be recommended.
Eliminate the backdoor sources of evil and hypocrisy, and allow those who are honest and upholding morality to stretch their noble integrity.
Everyone should do their part and I will review future performance.
In the ninth month of the 18th month of the 18th month, the emperor's ancestor, King Xiao of Hejian, was named Emperor Xiaomu, his wife Zhao was named Queen Xiaomu, and the emperor's father, Marquis Liwu, was named Emperor Xiao Chong.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor's mother was honored as a noble person of the Xiao Chong Expo Garden.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Jianhe, there was a solar eclipse.
The imperial edict, Jiu Qing, and Xiaowei each discussed the pros and cons of the government affairs.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Officials are given one more year's work; men are given the second grade each; fathers, elders, filial brothers, and Litian are each given the third grade; widowers, widowers, orphans, singles, terminally ill, poor and unable to survive are each given five dendrobiums of millet; chaste women are given three bolts of silk.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
灾害所伤什四以上，勿收田租；其不满者，以实除之。
二月，荆、扬二州人多饿死，遣四府掾分行赈给。
沛国言黄龙见谯。
夏四月庚寅，京师地震。
诏大将军、公、卿、校尉举贤良方正、能直言极谏者各一人。
又命列侯、将、大夫、御史、谒者、千石、六百石、博士、议郎、郎官各上封事，指陈得失。
又诏大将军、公、卿、郡、国举至孝笃行之士各一人。
壬辰，诏州郡不得迫胁驱逐长吏。
长吏臧满三十万而不纠举者，刺史、二千石以纵避为罪。
若有擅相假印绶者，与杀人同弃市论。
丙午，诏郡国系囚减死罪一等，勿笞。
唯谋反大逆，不用此书。
又诏曰： 比起陵茔，弥历时节，力役既广，徒隶尤勤。
顷雨泽不沾，密云复散，倘或在兹。
其令徒作陵者减刑各六月。
是月，立阜陵王代兄勃遒亭侯便为阜陵王。
郡国六地裂，水涌井溢。
translation: 
If the disaster loss is more than four-tenths, no land rent will be collected; if the amount is less than this amount, the land rent will be reduced or reduced according to the actual situation.
In February, many people died of starvation in Jing and Yang prefectures, and the four prefectures were sent to inspect and conduct disaster relief.
Pei Guo reported that Huang Long met Yu Qiao.
On April 11th in the summer, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
The generals, ministers, and lieutenants are ordered to recommend a virtuous and upright person who can speak out and criticize his mistakes boldly.
He also ordered the princes, generals, officials, censors, envoys, Qianshi, Liubaishi, doctors, Yilang, and Langguan to secretly submit letters to report and expose, and to state the benefits and losses.
He also ordered the generals, ministers, counties, and countries to recommend one person each who was very filial and dedicated.
On the 13th, the state and county were ordered not to force or threaten to expel officials.
An official embezzled more than 300,000 yuan and did not show up to correct or impeach the whistleblower. The governor and 2,000 shi were accused of connivance and avoidance.
If someone lent it to Yinshou Pass without authorization, it would be the same crime as murder and he would be abandoned in the market by using fake documents.
On the 27th, the imperial edict was issued that the prisoner of the county and state should be punished with a reduced penalty of one level of death penalty and not be beaten.
Only those who commit rebellion and treason should not invoke this edict.
He also issued an edict: Recently, it took a long time to fill the tombs in Jinling Mausoleum. A lot of labor was required, and the slaves who were sentenced were even more diligent.
These days, it doesn't rain at all, the dense clouds disperse, and there is a drought. Maybe this is the reason.
We now order all prisoners who build tombs to have their sentences reduced by six months each.
This month, the brother of Fuling King Liu Dai's brother, Boquting Hou Liu Bian, was made King of Fuling.
There were earthquakes in six parts of the county, wells overflowed, and houses were damaged and people were killed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
芝草生中黄藏府。
六月，太尉胡广罢，大司农杜乔为太尉。
秋七月，勃海王鸿薨，立帝弟蠡吾侯悝为勃海王。
八月乙未，立皇后梁氏。
九月丁卯，京师地震。
太尉杜乔免。
冬十月，司徒赵戒为太尉，司空袁汤为司徒，前太尉胡广为司空。
十一月，济阴言有五色大鸟见于己氏。
戊午，减天下死罪一等，戍边。
清河刘文反，杀国相射暠，欲立清河王蒜为天子；事觉伏诛。
蒜坐贬为尉氏候，徙桂阳，自杀。
前太尉李固、杜乔皆下狱死。
陈留盗贼李坚自称皇帝，伏诛。
二年春正月甲子，皇帝加元服。
庚午，大赦天下。
赐河间、勃海二王黄金各百斤，彭城诸国王各五十斤；公主、大将军、三公、特进、侯、中二千石、二千石、将、大夫、郎吏、从官、四姓及梁、邓小侯、诸夫人以下帛，各有差。年八十以上赐米、酒、肉，九十以上加帛二匹，绵三斤。
三月戊辰，帝从皇太后幸大将军梁冀府。
白马羌寇广汉属国，杀长吏，益州刺史率板楯蛮讨破之。
夏四月丙子，封帝弟硕为平原王，奉孝崇皇祀。尊孝崇皇夫人马氏为孝崇园贵人。
嘉禾生大司农帑藏。
五月癸丑，北宫掖廷中德阳殿及左掖门火，车驾移幸南宫。
六月，改清河为甘陵，立安平王得子经侯理为甘陵王。
translation: 
Zhicao was born in Zhonghuang Zangfu, which holds gold and silver.
In June, Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed and Da Si Nong Du Qiao was appointed as Taiwei.
In July of autumn, King Liu Hong of Bohai passed away. He established Emperor Huan's younger brother, Liwuhou Liu Kui, as King of Bohai.
On August 18, Liang was made queen.
On September 21, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Taiwei Du Qiao was dismissed from his post.
In the tenth month of winter, Situ Zhao Jie was appointed as Taiwei, Sikong Yuan Tang was appointed as Situ, and former Taiwei Hu Guang was appointed as Sikong.
In November, Jiyin reported that a large bird of five colors was seen in Jishi.
On the twelfth day, he was punished with the death penalty of one degree and sent to the border guard.
Liu Wen of Qinghe rebelled, killed the prime minister of the country, and wanted to establish Liu Lian, the king of Qinghe, as emperor. When the incident was discovered, Liu Wen was executed.
Liu Lian was demoted to the rank of Marquis of Wei clan and sent to Guiyang where he committed suicide.
Former Taiwei Li Gu and Du Qiao were both sentenced to death in prison.
Li Jian, a thief from Chen Liu, claimed to be emperor and was killed.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, the emperor crowned him.
On the twenty-fifth day, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
King Liu Jian of Hejian and King Liu Kui of Bohai each received a hundred catties of gold, and all the kings of Pengcheng received fifty catties each; princesses, generals, Sangong, Tejin, Hou, Zhong, two thousand stones, two thousand stones, generals, officials, officials, Congguan, Fan, Guo, Yin, Ma Jiliang, Deng Xiaohou and various ladies were given silks of different sizes. Rice, wine and meat were given to those aged over eighty, and two pieces of silk and three catties of cotton were given to those aged over ninety.
On the Wuchen day of March, the emperor accompanied the Empress Dowager Liang to the residence of General Liang Ji.
The Baima Qiang bandits plundered the Guanghan vassal state and killed the chief officials. The Yizhou governor led a Banzhen barbarian crusade and defeated them.
On the third day of April in the summer, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of Prince of Pingyuan. He was enshrined in the honor of the Emperor Xiao Chong, and his wife Ma, the wife of the Emperor Xiao Chong, was honored as the noble lady of Xiao Chong Garden.
Jiahe was born in the place where Da Sinong hid his gold coins.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month, a fire broke out in Deyang Hall and Zuoye Gate, where the concubines of the North Palace lived, and the emperor moved to the South Palace.
In June, Qinghe was renamed Ganling, and Jinghou Liu Li, the son of Anping King Liu De, was made King of Ganling.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
秋七月，京师大水。
河东言木连理。
冬十月，长平陈景自号 黄帝子 ，署置官属，又南顿管伯亦称 真人 ，并图举兵，悉伏诛。
三年春三月甲申，彭城王定薨。
夏四月丁卯晦，日有食之。
五月乙亥，诏曰： 盖闻天生蒸民，不能相理，为之立君，使司牧之。
君道得于下，则休祥著乎上；庶事失其序，则咎征见乎象。
间者，日食毁缺，阳光晦暗，朕祗惧潜思，匪遑启处。
传不云乎： 日食修德，月食修刑。
昔孝章帝愍前世禁徙，故建初之元，并蒙恩泽，流徙者使还故郡，没入者免为庶民。
先皇德政，可不务乎！
其自永建元年迄乎今岁，凡诸妖恶，支亲从坐，及吏民减死徙边者，悉归本郡；唯没入者不从此令。
六月庚子，诏大将军、三公、特进、侯，其与卿、校尉举贤良方正、能直言极谏之士各一人。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, there was a flood in the capital.
Hedong reported that a tree was growing with branches.
In the winter of October, Chen Jing of Changping called himself the "Huang Emperor's Son", established an official office and appointed officials. Guan Bo of Nandun also called himself "Zhenren" and tried to raise an army. Chen Jing and Guan Bo were both killed.
In the spring and March of the third year of Jiashen, Liu Ding, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
On April 30th in the summer, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, the edict said: "There are so many people who cannot manage themselves, so we set up a king for them and sent some officials to govern them."
If the methods implemented by the king can be supported by the people below, then happiness and auspiciousness will be reflected in heaven. Nowadays, many affairs carried out by ordinary people are chaotic and disorderly, and the symptoms of evil are shown in natural phenomena.
Recently, the solar eclipse has damaged the defects and the sunlight has become dark. I am so frightened that I have to reflect and think privately and cannot live in peace.
Doesn't "The Legend of Gongyang" say that when a solar eclipse occurs, we must cultivate virtue; when a lunar eclipse occurs, we must revise the criminal legal system.
In the past, Emperor Xiaozhang had deep sympathy for the prisoners who were imprisoned or moved far away in the previous generation, so he issued an edict in the first year of Jianchu. All the prisoners received his favor. Those who were exiled to the border areas were allowed to return to their homeland, and those who were subjugated as disciples were exempted from being common people.
Isn’t the late emperor’s virtuous policy worthy of our imitation?
It is hereby ordered that from the first year of Yongjian of Emperor Shun to this year, all those who have done evil, whose relatives have been implicated and punished, and who have officials and civilians moved to the border with reduced penalty of death, will all return to the county; only the family members of the criminals will not obey this order.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, he ordered the general, Sangong, Tejin, Hou, Qing, and Xiaowei to each recommend a virtuous and upright person who could tell the truth and make criticisms.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
乙卯，震宪陵寝屋。
秋七月庚申，廉县雨肉。
八月乙丑，有星孛于天市。
京师大水。
九月己卯，地震。
庚寅，地又震。诏死罪以下及亡命者赎，各有差。
郡国五山崩。
冬十月，太尉赵戒免。司徒袁汤为太尉，大司农河内张歆为司徒。
十一月甲申，诏曰： 朕摄政失中，灾眚连仍，三光不明，阴阳错序。
监寐寤叹，疢如疾首。
今京师厮舍，死者相枕，郡县阡陌，处处有之，甚违周文掩胔之义。
其有家属而贫无以葬者，给直，人三千，丧主布三匹；若无亲属，可于官壖地葬之，表识姓名，为设祠祭。
又徙在作部，疾病致医药，死亡厚埋藏。
民有不能自振及流移者，禀谷如科。
州郡检察，务崇恩施，以康我民。
和平元年春正月甲子，大赦天下，改元和平。
translation: 
On the 19th, the Xianling dormitory was hit by an earthquake.
In autumn, in July, the meat falls like rain in Lian County.
On August 30, the comet appeared in the Tianshi star among the twelve northeastern flag stars.
The capital is flooded.
On September 14, an earthquake occurred.
On the twenty-fifth day, another earthquake occurred, and the edict issued an order for atonement for those who committed crimes under the death penalty and those who fled, and the atonements varied.
Landslides occurred in five places in the county.
In October of winter, Taiwei Zhao Jie was dismissed from his post, and Situ Yuan Tang was appointed as Taiwei, and Da Sinong Hanoi Zhang Xin was appointed as Situ.
On November 20th, the edict stated: I have lost my balance in my administration, resulting in continuous disasters, the sun, moon and stars are unclear, and the yin and yang are reversed.
Restless sleep, heartbroken.
Nowadays, in the poor residences of the capital, the dead are piled up on top of each other. There are dead people everywhere in the streets of counties and counties, which greatly violates the morality of King Wen of Zhou to bury their bodies.
If the deceased has family members but is too poor to bury them, a reward of three thousand will be given to each person, and three pieces of cloth will be given to the deceased; if there are no relatives, they can be buried beside the city, their names will be marked, and a memorial ceremony will be held.
Also, prisoners who are serving their sentences or working hard must be given medicine when they are sick, and those who die must be buried well.
If the civilians are unable to support themselves or are dispersed and relocated, grain relief will be provided as per the existing regulations.
The prefectures and counties must inspect and inspect these, and must show mercy so that the people can live in peace.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Heping, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Heping.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乙丑，诏曰： 曩者遭家不造，先帝早世。永惟大宗之重，深思嗣续之福，询谋台辅，稽之兆占。
既建明哲，克定统业，天人协和，万国咸宁。
元服已加，将即委付，而四方盗窃，颇有未静，故假延临政，以须安谧。
幸赖股肱御侮之助，残丑消荡，民和年稔，普天率土，遐迩洽同。
远览 复子明辟 之义，近慕先姑归授之法，及今令辰，皇帝称制。
群公卿士，虔恭尔位，勠力一意，勉同断金。
展也大成 ，则所望矣。
二月，扶风妖贼裴优自称皇帝，伏诛。
甲寅，皇太后梁氏崩。
三月，车驾徙幸北宫。甲午，葬顺烈皇后。
夏五月庚辰，尊博园匽贵人曰孝崇皇后。
秋七月，梓潼山崩。
冬十一月辛巳，减天下死罪一等，徙边戍。
元嘉元年春正月，京师疾疫，使光禄大夫将医药案行。
癸酉，大赦天下，改元元嘉。
translation: 
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, the edict said: In the past, the family suffered misfortune, and the late emperor died early. He had long considered the importance of the origin of the original energy of heaven and earth, and deeply thought about the blessings of his descendants. He consulted the Sangong and Jiuqing to examine the fortune and misfortune.
Now that the laws have been established, the great cause of unification can be established, the destiny of heaven and earth will be harmonious, and all nations will be harmonious and peaceful.
The emperor's crown has been crowned and he is about to be entrusted with a big responsibility. However, there are many thefts from all directions, so the government is temporarily postponed to seek peace and tranquility.
Fortunately, all the officials were able to resist the insults, and the remaining ugly creatures were wiped out. The people were harmonious and prosperous, and the whole world was harmonious and united, far and near.
The Duke of Zhou returned to power from afar to observe the righteousness of becoming a king, and the Empress Dowager Mu Yan returned to power to authorize the rule of the late emperor. Taking advantage of today's auspicious day, the emperor claimed control and took charge of everything.
All officials are loyal to their duties and work together to achieve their goals.
If integrity serves the country, the world will be at peace. This is what I expected!
In February, the Fufeng demon thief Pei You claimed to be emperor and was killed.
On the 22nd, Empress Dowager Liang passed away.
In March, the emperor moved to the North Palace. In the Jiawu period, Queen Shunlie was buried.
On May 19th in the summer, the noble lady of the Expo Garden was named Queen Xiao Chong.
In autumn, in July, the Zitong landslide occurred.
On November 24th in winter, he was punished with the death penalty of one degree and moved to the border guard.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Yuanjia, there was an epidemic in the capital, so Doctor Guanglu took doctors and medicines to inspect and treat the disease.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yuanjia.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
二月，九江、庐江大疫。
甲午，河间王建薨。
夏四月己丑，安平王得薨。
京师旱。任城、梁国饥，民相食。
司徒张歆罢，光禄勋吴雄为司徒。
秋七月，武陵蛮叛。
冬十月，司空胡广罢。
十一月辛巳，京师地震。
闰月庚午，任城王崇薨。太常黄琼为司空。
二年春正月，西域长史王敬为于窴国所杀。
丙辰，京师地震。
夏四月甲寅，孝崇皇后匽氏崩。
庚午，常山王豹薨。
五月辛卯，葬孝崇皇后于博陵。
秋七月庚辰，日有食之。八月，济阴言黄龙见句阳，金城言黄龙见允街。
冬十月乙亥，京师地震。
十一月，司空黄琼免。
十二月，特进赵戒为司空。
右北平太守和旻坐臧，下狱死。
永兴元年春二月，张掖言白鹿见。
三月丁亥，幸鸿池。
夏五月丙申，大赦天下，改元永兴。
丁酉，济南王广薨，无子，国除。
秋七月，郡国三十二蝗。
河水溢。
百姓饥穷，流冗道路，至有数十万户，冀州尤甚。
translation: 
In February, there was a severe epidemic in Jiujiang and Lujiang.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Liu Jian, the king of Hejian, passed away.
On the third day of April in summer, King Liu De of Anping passed away.
There was a drought in the capital, famine in Rencheng and Liang, and people were eating people.
Situ Zhang Xin was dismissed and Guang Luxun and Wu Xiong were appointed as Situ.
In autumn and July, the Wuling barbarians rebelled.
In October of winter, Sikong Hu Guang was dismissed.
On November 28, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the 18th day of the intercalary month, Liu Chong, the king of Rencheng, passed away and Taichang Huang Qiong was appointed Sikong.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Wang Jing, the chief historian of the Western Regions, was killed by Yu Yuguo.
On Bingchen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
On the fourth day of April in the summer, Queen Xiao Chong passed away.
On the 20th, Liu Bao, the king of Changshan, passed away.
On May 12, Empress Xiao Chong was buried in Boling.
On the second day of July in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. In August, Jiyin reported that Huanglong appeared in Juyang, and Jincheng reported that Huanglong appeared in Yun.
On October 28th in winter, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
In November, Sikong Huangqiong was dismissed.
In December, Ren Te was promoted to Zhao Jie as Sikong.
He Min, the governor of Youbei, was imprisoned and executed for corruption.
In the spring and February of the first year of Yongxing, Zhangye reported the appearance of white deer.
On March 12, the emperor arrived at Hongchi.
On May 22nd in summer, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yongxing.
On the 23rd, King Liu Guang of Jinan passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.
In the autumn of July, locust plague occurred in thirty-two places in the county.
The Yellow River flooded.
The people were hungry and poor. Hundreds of thousands of households were displaced, especially in Jizhou.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
诏在所赈给乏绝，安慰居业。
冬十月，太尉袁汤免，太常胡广为太尉。
司徒吴雄罢，司空赵戒免；以太仆黄琼为司徒，光禄勋房植为司空。
十一月丁丑，诏减天下死罪一等，徙边戍。
是岁，武陵太守应奉招诱叛蛮，降之。
二年春正月甲午，大赦天下。
二月辛丑，初听刺史、二千石行三年丧服。
癸卯，京师地震，诏公、卿、校尉举贤良方正、能直言极谏者各一人。
诏曰： 比者星辰谬越，坤灵震动，灾异之降，必不空发。
敕己修政，庶望有补。
其舆服制度有逾侈长饰者，皆宜损省。
郡县务存俭约，申明旧令，如永平故事。
六月，彭城泗水增长逆流。
诏司隶校尉、部刺史曰： 蝗灾为害，水变仍至，五谷不登，人无宿储。其令所伤郡国种芜菁以助人食。
京师蝗。东海朐山崩。
九月丁卯朔，日有食之。
诏曰： 朝政失中，云汉作旱，川灵涌水，蝗螽孽蔓，残我百谷，太阳亏光，饥馑荐臻。
其不被害郡县，当为饥馁者储。
天下一家，趣不糜烂，则为国宝。
其禁郡、国不得卖酒，祠祀裁足。
translation: 
The edict ordered all localities to provide relief to the poor and hungry people, so that they could live and work in peace of mind.
In October of winter, Taiwei Yuan Tang was dismissed from his post and Taichang Hu Guang was appointed as Taiwei.
Situ Wu Xiong was dismissed, Sikong Zhao Jie was dismissed, Huang Qiong, the imperial servant, was appointed Situ, and Guang Luxun Fangzhi was appointed Sikong.
On the sixth day of November, the imperial edict was issued to reduce the death penalty to the first level in the world and move to the border guard.
In this year, the prefect of Wuling should be persuaded to induce the rebellious barbarians to surrender.
On the twenty-fourth day of the first month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On the second day of February, the governor and Erqianshi were allowed to observe mourning for three years.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, there was an earthquake in the capital. The princes, ministers, and lieutenants were ordered to recommend a virtuous and upright person who was willing to criticize and offer opinions.
The edict said: Recently, the stars in the sky have been out of position, the gods on the earth are shaking, disasters and extraordinary phenomena are not accidental, there must be actual things corresponding to them.
We want to clarify politics and hope it will help.
If the carriage and horse clothing system is too extravagant and ostentatious, it should be reduced or omitted.
Counties and counties must remain frugal and reaffirm the original regulations, just as they did during the Yongping period.
In June, the Surabaya River in Pengcheng surged and flowed backwards.
The imperial edict said: "The locust plague has caused damage, floods have occurred one after another, the grain has not been harvested, and the people have no overnight rations. We now order the affected counties to plant turnips widely to supplement the people's food."
There was a locust plague in the capital, and the Qu mountain collapsed in the East China Sea.
On the first day of September, there is a solar eclipse.
The edict stated: The imperial court lost its political balance, droughts fell from the sky, rivers flooded, locusts overran the fields, destroying hundreds of grains, the sun lacked light, and famines occurred again and again.
Counties and counties not affected by the disaster should reserve food for the disaster-stricken areas.
The world is one family, and if the taste is not corrupt, then it is a national treasure.
It is now forbidden to make wine in counties and counties, and worship in temples should be kept as restrained as possible.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
太尉胡广免，司徒黄琼为太尉。
闰月，光禄勋尹颂为司徒。
减天下死罪一等，徙边戍。
蜀郡李伯诈称宗室，当立为 太初皇帝 ，伏诛。
冬十一月甲辰，校猎上林苑，遂至函谷关，赐所过道傍年九十以上钱，各有差。
太山、琅邪贼公孙举等反叛，杀长吏。
永寿元年春正月戊申，大赦天下，改元永寿。
二月，司隶、冀州饥，人相食。
敕州郡赈给贫弱。
若王侯吏民有积谷者，一切貣十分之三，以助禀贷；其百姓吏民者，以见钱雇直。
王侯须新租乃偿。
夏四月，白乌见齐国。
六月，洛水溢，坏鸿德苑。
南阳大水。
司空房植免，太常韩縯为司空。
诏太山、琅琊遇贼者，勿收租、赋，复更、算三年。
又诏被水死流失尸骸者，令郡县钩求收葬；及所唐突压溺物故，七岁以上赐钱，人二千。
坏败庐舍，亡失谷食，尤贫者禀，人二斛。
巴郡、益州郡山崩。
translation: 
Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed and Situ Huang Qiong was appointed as Taiwei.
In the ninth month of the leap month, Guang Luxun and Yin Song were appointed as Situ.
The crime of death in the world was reduced to the first level, and he moved to guard the border.
Li Bo of Shu County pretended to be a member of the clan and was supposed to be the "Emperor Taichu", but he was executed.
On the ninth day of November in winter, the imperial school went to Linyuan and went to Hangu Pass to reward the elderly people over ninety years old beside the aisle with money.
Taishan and Langfu thief Gongsun Ju and others rebelled and killed the chief officials.
On the fourteenth day of the first spring of the first year of Yongshou, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and the name of Yongshou was changed to Yongshou.
In February, there was a famine in Sili and Jizhou, and people were eating people.
The prefectures and counties were ordered to provide relief to the poor and weak.
If the princes, officials and rich people have accumulated grain, they will be entitled to three-tenths of it to help the warehouses carry out relief. This is the grain of the people and the people, and they will be rewarded in cash.
It is the prince's valley and must be repaid after the new rent is collected.
In April of summer, white crows appeared in Qi.
In June, Luoshui flooded and destroyed Hongde Garden.
Nanyang Dashui.
Sikong Fangzhi was dismissed and Taichang Han Jinyin was appointed as Sikong.
The order was issued to families in Taishan and Langfu who had been invaded by thieves and robbers, not to collect land rent or taxes, and to be exempted from paying taxes and population taxes for three years.
It also ordered the counties and counties to find the corpses of those who were drowned and lost their bodies and bury them; for those who were crushed to death by collisions and drowned, each person over seven years old was given two thousand dollars.
The houses were damaged and the grain was washed away. The particularly poor people were given two husks of grain each.
Landslides occurred in Bajun and Yizhou counties.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
秋七月，初置太山、琅邪都尉官。
南匈奴左薁鞬台耆、且渠伯德等叛，寇美稷，安定属国都尉张奂讨除之。
二年春正月，初听中官得行三年服。
二月甲申，东海王臻薨。
三月，蜀郡属国夷叛。
秋七月，鲜卑寇云中。
太山贼公孙举等寇青、兖、徐二州，遣中郎将段颎讨，破斩之。
冬十一月，置太官右监丞官。
十二月，京师地震。
三年春正月己未，大赦天下。
夏四月，九真蛮夷叛，太守皃式讨之，战殁；遣九真都尉魏朗击破之。
复屯据日南。
闰月庚辰晦，日有食之。六月，初以小黄门为守宫令，置冗从右仆射官。
京师蝗。
秋七月，河东地裂。
冬十一月，司徒尹颂薨。
长沙蛮叛，寇益阳。
司空韩縯为司徒，太常北海孙朗为司空。
延熹元年春三月己酉，初置鸿德苑令。
夏五月己酉，大会公卿以下，赏赐各有差。
甲戌晦，日有食之。
京师蝗。
六月戊寅，大赦天下，改元延熹。
translation: 
In autumn and July, Taishan and Langyi captaincy officers were set up for the first time.
The southern Xiongnu rebelled against Zuo Tatai Qi, Qiqu Bode and others and harassed Meiji. The captain of Anding's vassal state defeated them and eliminated them.
In the first month of spring of the second year, middle officials were allowed to wear mourning clothes for three years.
On February 26th, Liu Zhen, King of the East China Sea, passed away
In March, the barbarians from the vassal state of Shu County rebelled.
In the autumn of July, the Xianbei bandits disturbed the clouds.
Taishan bandit Gongsun Ju and other bandits harassed the three states of Qing, Yan and Xu. He sent Zhonglang General Duan Yu to attack them, break them and kill them.
In November of winter, the right eunuch and the chengguan were appointed.
In December, there was an earthquake in the capital.
At the end of the first month of the spring of the third year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In the fourth month of summer, the Jiuzhen barbarians rebelled. The prefect Ershi attacked and died in battle; he sent Jiuzhen Captain Wei Lang to defeat them.
Restore troops to guard Rinan.
Leap May 30th, solar eclipse. In June, Xiaohuang Gate was used as the guarding order, and redundant servants and archers were set up.
There was a locust plague in the capital.
In autumn, in July, the ground cracked in Hedong.
In November of winter, Situ Yinsong died.
The barbarians rebelled in Changsha and the bandits harassed Yiyang.
Sikong Hanyan was appointed Situ, and Taichang Beihai Sun Lang was appointed Sikong.
On the fourth day of the third month in the first year of Yanxi, the order of Hongdeyuan was established.
On the fourth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, the generals and ministers and below will receive various rewards.
On the 29th, there was a solar eclipse.
There was a locust plague in the capital.
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yanxi.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
丙戌，分中山置博陵郡，以奉孝崇皇园陵。
大雩。
秋七月己巳，云阳地裂。
甲子，太尉黄琼免，太常胡广为太尉。
冬十月，校猎广成，遂幸上林苑。
十二月，鲜卑寇边，使匈奴中郎将张奂率南单于击破之。
二年春二月，鲜卑寇雁门。
己亥，阜陵王便薨。
蜀郡夷寇蚕陵，杀县令。
三月，复断刺史、二千石行三年丧。
夏，京师雨水。
六月，鲜卑寇辽东。
秋七月，初造显阳苑，置丞。
丙午，皇后梁氏崩。
乙丑，葬懿献皇后于懿陵。
大将军梁冀谋为乱。八月丁丑，帝御前殿，诏司隶校尉张彪将兵围冀第，收大将军印绶，冀与妻皆自杀。
卫尉梁淑、河南尹梁胤、屯骑校尉梁让、越骑校尉梁忠、长大校尉梁戟等，及中外宗亲数十人，皆伏诛。
太尉胡广坐免。
司徒韩縯、司空孙朗下狱。
壬午，立皇后邓氏，追废懿陵为贵人冢。
诏曰： 梁冀奸暴，浊乱王室。
孝质皇帝聪敏早茂，冀心怀忌畏，私行杀毒。
永乐太后亲尊莫二，冀又遏绝，禁还京师，使朕离母子之爱，隔顾复之恩。
祸害深大，罪衅日滋。
赖宗庙之灵，及中常侍单超、徐璜、具瑗、左悺、唐衡、尚书令尹勋等激愤建策，内外协同，漏刻之间，桀逆枭夷。
translation: 
On the 12th, Zhongshan was divided into Boling County to commemorate the imperial mausoleum.
Drought ceremony to pray for rain.
On the twenty-fifth day of the seventh month in autumn, the ground in Yunyang cracked.
On the 20th, Taiwei Huang Qiong was dismissed from his post and Taichang Hu Guang was appointed as Taiwei.
In October in winter, I was hunting in Guangcheng, so I went to Shanglinyuan.
In December of winter, Xianbei invaders raided the border, and the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan led Nan Shanyu to defeat them.
In the spring and February of the second year, the Xianbei bandits raided Yanmen.
On the 29th, King Liu Ben of Fuling passed away.
The Yi invaders in Shu County killed the county magistrate.
In March, the three-year mourning ceremony implemented by the governor and Erqianshi was suspended again.
In summer, it rains a lot in the capital.
In June, the Xianbei bandits raided Liaodong.
In autumn and July, the construction of Xianyang Garden and Chengcheng began.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, Queen Liang passed away.
On the 21st, Queen Yixian was buried in Yiling.
General Liang Ji conspired to cause rebellion. On the fourth day of August, the emperor went to the front hall and ordered the commander Zhang Biao to lead troops to surround Liang Ji's residence. After confiscating the general's seal and ribbon, Liang Ji and his wife committed suicide.
Wei Lieutenant Liang Shu, Henan Yin Liangyin, Tunqi Colonel Liang Rang, Yueqi Colonel Liang Zhong, Changshui Colonel Liang Ji, and dozens of Chinese and foreign clan members were all executed.
Taiwei Hu Guang was dismissed from his post.
Situ Han Jinyin and Sikong Sunlang were imprisoned.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Queen Deng was established, and Yiling was abandoned and turned into a tomb for nobles.
The edict said: Liang Ji was treacherous and cruel, causing chaos in the royal family.
The filial emperor was smart and mature early, but Liang Ji was jealous and fearful, so he committed poisonous crimes without permission.
The Empress Dowager Yongle respected Mo Er personally, and Liang Ji further blocked her from returning to the capital from the Expo Garden. As a result, mother and son could not be reunited to repay the kindness of raising her.
The harm is profound and widespread, and the omens of sin are becoming increasingly serious.
Fortunately, thanks to the power of the ancestors, Shan Chao, Xu Huang, Ju Yuan, Zuo Xuanguan, Tang Heng, Shangshu Ling Yinxun, etc. were indignant and suggested countermeasures, and coordinated actions inside and outside the palace. In an instant, the rebellious owl was eliminated.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
斯诚社稷之佑，臣下之力，宜班庆赏，以酬忠勋。
其封超等五人为县侯，勋等七人为亭侯。 于是旧故恩私，多受封爵。
大司农黄琼为太尉，光禄大夫中山祝恬为司徒，大鸿胪梁国盛允为司空。
初置秘书监官。
冬十月壬申，行幸长安。
乙酉，幸未中宫。
甲午，祠高庙。
十一月庚子，遂有事十一陵。
壬寅，中常侍单超为车骑将军。
十二月己巳，至自长安，赐长安民粟人十斛，园陵人五斛，行所过县三斛。
烧当等八种羌叛，寇陇右，护羌校尉段颎追击于罗亭，破之。
天竺国来献。
三年春正月丙申，大赦天下。
丙午，车骑将军单超薨。
闰月，烧何羌叛，寇张掖，护羌校尉段颎追击于积石，大破之。
白马令李云坐直谏，下狱死。
夏四月，上郡言甘露降。
五月甲戌，汉中山崩。
六月辛丑，司徒祝恬薨。
秋七月，司空盛允为司徒，太常虞放为司空。
translation: 
This is truly a blessing to the country, and for the hard work of the ministers, meritorious deeds should be announced, celebrated and rewarded to reward the heroes who served the country loyally.
Today, five people including Shan Chao are granted the title of County Marquis, and seven including Yin Xun are granted the title of Ting Marquis. Other old personal benefactors were often knighted.
He appointed Da Si Nong Huang Qiong as Taiwei, Guanglu Dafu Zhongshan Zhu Tian as Situ, Da Honglu Liang Guosheng Yun as Sikong.
Start setting up secretarial supervisors.
On the fifth day of October in winter, the emperor visited Chang'an.
On the 18th, we arrived at Weiyang Palace.
On the 27th, sacrifices were held at the Gaomiao.
On the fourth day of November, worship the Eleven Tombs.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, he appointed Shan Chao, a regular servant of the Central Military Commission, as a general of chariots and cavalry.
On the third day of the twelfth lunar month, the emperor returned from Chang'an and gave each of the people in Chang'an ten pieces of dendrobium millet. Each person in Yuanling has five husks of dendrobium, and every county he visits has three husks of dendrobium.
Shaodang and other eight kinds of Qiang people rebelled and raided Longyou. Duan Yin, the guard Qiang school captain, pursued them in Luoting and defeated them.
Tianzhu came to offer gifts.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year of spring, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 11th, the chariot general Shuang Chao died.
In the first month of the leap year, the Shaodang Qiang rebelled and raided Zhangye. Duan Yin, the captain of the Qiang Guard, pursued them in Jishi and defeated them.
Baima Ling Li Yun was imprisoned to death for speaking out and criticizing the government.
In April of summer, Shangjun reported timely rains.
On May 11th, a landslide occurred in Hanzhong.
On the eighth day of June, Situ Zhutian passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Shengyun was appointed Situ, and Taichang Yu Fang was appointed Sikong.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
长沙蛮寇郡界。
九月，太山、琅邪贼劳丙等复叛，寇掠百姓。遣御史中丞赵某持节督州郡讨之。
丁亥，诏无事之官权绝奉，丰年如故。
冬十一月，日南蛮贼率众诣郡降。
勒姐羌围允街，段颎击破之。
太山贼叔孙无忌攻杀都尉侯章。
十二月，遣中郎将宗资讨破之。
武陵蛮寇江陵，车骑将军冯绲讨，皆降散。
荆州刺史度尚讨长沙蛮，平之。
四年春正月辛酉，南宫嘉德殿火。
戊子，丙署火。
大疫。
二月壬辰，武库火。
司徒盛允免，大司农种暠为司徒。
三月，省冗从右仆射官。
太尉黄琼免。
夏四月，太常刘矩为太尉。
甲寅，封河间王开子博为任城王。
五月辛酉，有星孛于心。
丁卯，原陵长寿门火。
己卯，京师雨雹。
六月，京兆、扶风及凉州地震。
庚子，岱山及博尤来山并穨裂。
己酉，大赦天下。
translation: 
The barbarians in Changsha raided the county boundary.
In September, the Taishan and Langfu bandits Laonei and others rebelled again and plundered the people. They sent Zhao, the censor Zhongcheng, to supervise the prefectures and counties to attack.
On the 26th, officials with no actual work were ordered to temporarily suspend their salaries, and they would be given as usual in good years.
In November of winter, the Rinan barbarians led their troops to the county to surrender.
Le Jie and Qiang surrounded Yun Street, but Duan Yin defeated them.
Sun Wuji, the Taishan bandit uncle, attacked and killed Duwei Hou Zhang.
In December, Zhonglang was sent to attack Zongzi and defeat them.
Wuling barbarians raided Jiangling, and the chariot and cavalry general Feng Cui went to attack them. Some surrendered and others fled.
Du Shang, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated the barbarians in Changsha.
On the second day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, a fire broke out in the Jiade Hall of Nangong.
On the 29th, a fire broke out in Department C.
Great epidemic.
On the third day of February, a fire broke out in the arsenal.
Situ Shengyun was dismissed from his post and appointed as Situ of Dasinong Zhongfan.
In March, there is no need to serve the right servant and shoot the official.
Taiwei Huang Qiong was dismissed.
In April of summer, Taichang Liu Ju was appointed Taiwei.
On the 26th, Liu Bo, the son of Liu Kaizi, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Rencheng.
On the fourth day of May, the comet appeared in Antares.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, a fire broke out at the Changshou Gate of the original mausoleum.
On the 22nd, hail fell in the capital, as big as an egg.
In June, there were earthquakes in Jingzhao, Fufeng and Liangzhou.
On the 13th, Daishan Mountain and Youlaishan Mountain in Bo County collapsed together.
On the 22nd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
司空虞放免，前太尉黄琼为司空。
犍为属国夷寇钞百姓，益州刺史山昱击破之。
零吾羌与先零诸种并叛，寇三辅。
秋七月，京师雩。
减公卿以下奉，貣王侯半租。
占卖关内侯、虎贲、羽林、缇骑营士、五大夫钱各有差。
九月，司空黄琼免，大鸿胪刘宠为司空。
冬十月，天竺国来献。
南阳黄武与襄城惠得、昆阳乐季訞言相署，皆伏诛。
先零沈氐羌与诸种羌寇并、凉二州，十一月，中郎将皇甫规击破之。
十二月，夫馀王遣使来献。
五年春正月，省太官右监丞。
壬午，南宫丙署火。
三月，沈氐羌寇张掖、酒泉。
壬午，济北王次薨。
夏四月，长沙贼起，寇桂阳、苍梧。
惊马逸象突入宫殿。
乙丑，恭陵东阙火。
戊辰，虎贲掖门火。
己巳。太学西门自坏。
五月，康陵园寝火。
长沙、零陵贼起，攻桂阳、苍梧、南海、交阯，遣御史中丞盛修督州郡讨之，不克。
translation: 
Sikong Yufang was dismissed and former Taiwei Huang Qiong was appointed as Sikong.
The barbarian bandits from Jianwei's vassal state harassed and plundered the people, but Shan Yu, the governor of Yizhou, defeated him.
The Lingwu Qiang and the Xianling tribes rebelled together and plundered Sanfu.
In autumn and July, the capital holds the Autumn Rain Sacrifice.
The salaries of officials below the rank of Gongqing were reduced, and the land rent of Marquis Feng was reduced to half.
It is estimated that the amount of money sold for the official titles of Guanneihou, Huben, Yulin, Tiqi Yingshi, Wu Dafu, etc., each is different.
In September, Sikong Huangqiong was dismissed. Ren Dahonglu and Liu Chong were appointed Sikong.
In the tenth month of winter, Tianzhu came to offer gifts.
Nanyang Huangwu, Xiangcheng Huide, and Kunyang Leji used evil words to deceive people's hearts, and they were all executed.
First, the Shen Di Qiang and various Qiang bandits plundered the two states of Liang and Liang. In November, Zhonglang general Huangfu Gui defeated them.
In December, King Fuyu sent an envoy to present gifts.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the eunuch Youjian Cheng was omitted.
On the 29th, a fire broke out in Nangong Bing Department.
In March, Shen Di and Qiang bandits raided Zhangye and Jiuquan.
On the 30th, King Liu Ci of Jibei passed away.
In April of summer, bandits broke out in Changsha and raided Guiyang and Cangwu.
Frightened horses and fleeing elephants broke into the palace.
Yichou, there was a fire on the east side of the gate of Gongling Tomb.
On Wuchen, a fire broke out at the side door of the palace where Huben was located.
Now, the Ximen of Taixue has been damaged by itself.
In May, a fire broke out in Kanglingyuan's bedroom.
Bandits arose in Changsha and Lingling, and they attacked Guiyang, Cangwu, Nanhai, and Jiaozhi. They sent Yushi Zhongcheng Shengxiu to supervise the prefectures and counties to attack them, but they were unable to overcome them.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
乙亥，京师地震。
诏公、卿各上封事。
甲申，中藏府承禄署火。
秋七月己未，南宫承善闼火。
鸟吾羌寇汉阳、陇西、金城，诸郡兵讨破之。
八月庚子，诏减虎贲、羽林住寺不任事者半奉，勿与冬衣；其公卿以下给冬衣之半。
艾县贼焚烧长沙郡县，寇益阳，杀令。
又零陵蛮亦叛，寇长沙。
己卯，罢琅邪都尉官。
冬十月，武陵蛮叛，寇江陵，南郡太守李肃坐奔北弃市；辛丑，以太常冯绲为车骑将军，讨之。
假公卿以下奉。
又换王侯租以助军粮，出濯龙中藏钱还之。
十一月，冯绲大破叛蛮于武陵。
京兆虎牙都尉宗谦坐臧，下狱死。
滇那羌寇武威、张掖、酒泉。
太尉刘矩免，太常杨秉为太尉。
六年春二月戊午，司徒种暠薨。
三月戊戌，大赦天下。
卫尉颍川许栩为司徒。
夏四月辛亥，康陵东署火。
五月，鲜卑寇辽东属国。
translation: 
On the 18th, there was an earthquake in the capital.
The imperial edict ordered the public and ministers to secretly submit criticisms and suggestions, and to report and expose.
On the 27th, a fire broke out in the Chenglu Office of Zhongzang Prefecture.
On the eighth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in Nangong Chengshan.
The Qiang bandits raided Hanyang. In Longxi and Jincheng, soldiers from various counties attacked and defeated him.
On August 20, the order was issued to reduce the salary of Huben and Yulin to half the salary of those who were retained in official residences by the weak military, and not to give them winter clothes; to the officials and ministers below, they were given half the salary.
The bandits in Ai County burned down the counties in Changsha, invaded Yiyang, and killed the chief officials.
The Lingling barbarians also rebelled and looted Changsha.
Ji Mao, let's go to Langfu Duweiguan.
In the winter of October, the Wuling barbarians rebelled and the bandits looted Jiangling. Li Su, the governor of Nanjun, escaped from the battle and was killed in the busy city. On the 22nd, Taichang Feng Cui was appointed as the cavalry general to attack the Wuling barbarians.
Lend the minister the following salary.
They also exchanged the rent of the prince's land to help pay for the army, and used the money from the government's treasury in Zhuolong Garden to repay it.
In November, Feng Zui defeated the rebels in Wuling.
Jingzhao Huya Captain Zong Qian was imprisoned for corruption.
The Qiang bandits from Yunnan plundered Wuwei, Zhangye and Jiuquan.
Taiwei Liu Ju was dismissed and Taichang Yang Bing was appointed as Taiwei.
On February 11th in the spring of the sixth year, Situ Fan passed away.
On March 22nd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
He appointed Wei Wei Yingchuan Xu Xu as Situ.
On the fifth day of April in the summer, a fire broke out in the Kangling East Office.
In May, the Xianbei bandits raided the Liaodong vassal state.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
秋七月甲申，平陵园寝火。
桂阳盗贼李研等寇郡界。
武陵蛮复叛，太守陈奉与战，大破降之。
陇西太守孙羌讨滇那羌，破之。
八月，车骑将军冯绲免。
冬十月丙辰，校猎广成，遂幸函谷关、上林苑。
十一月，司空刘宠免。
南海贼寇郡界。
十二月，卫尉周景为司空。
七年春正月庚寅，沛王荣薨。
三月癸亥，陨石于鄠。
夏四月丙寅，梁王成薨。
五月己丑，京师雨雹。
秋七月辛卯，赵王乾薨。
野王山上有死龙。
荆州刺史度尚击零陵、桂阳盗贼及蛮夷，大破平之。
冬十月壬寅，南巡狩。
庚申，幸章陵，祠旧宅，遂有事于园庙，赐守令以下各有差。
戊辰，幸云梦，临汉水；还，幸新野，祠湖阳、新野公主、鲁哀王、寿张敬侯庙。
护羌校尉段颎击当煎羌，破之。
十二月辛丑，车驾还宫。
八年春正月，遣中常侍左悺之苦县，祠老子。
勃海王悝谋反，降为癭陶王。
丙申晦，日有食之。诏公、卿、校尉举贤良方正。
translation: 
On the tenth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in Pinglingyuan.
Guiyang bandit Li Yan and other bandits plundered the county boundary.
The Wuling barbarians rebelled again, and the prefect Chen Feng fought with them, defeating the enemy and forcing them to surrender.
Sun Qiang, the governor of Longxi, attacked the Dian Qiang and defeated them.
In August, General Feng Kui was dismissed from his post.
On October 13th in winter, the imperial school hunted Guangcheng and went to Hangu Pass and Shanglinyuan.
In November, Sikong Liu Chong was dismissed from office.
Southern pirates and bandits plundered the county borders.
In December, Weiwei Zhou Jing was appointed Sikong.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, King Pei Liu Rong passed away.
In the third month of Guihai, a meteorite fell in Hu.
On April 26th in summer, King Liu Cheng of Liang passed away.
On May 19, hail fell in the capital.
On July 22nd in autumn, King Zhao Liu Qian passed away.
There is a dead dragon on Yewang Mountain.
Du Shang, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Lingling and Guiyang bandits and barbarians, defeated and pacified them.
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the emperor visited the south.
On the 23rd, I went to Zhangling, visited the old house of the ancestral hall, offered sacrifices to the garden temple, and received rewards ranging from the following.
On the first day of November, we go to Yunmeng and visit the Han River; we turn around and go to Xinye to worship Huyang, Princess Xinye, King Lu Ai, and Shouzhang Jinghou Temple.
Duan Yin, the captain who protected the Qiang, attacked the Dangjian Qiang and defeated them.
On the fourth day of December, the king returned to Luoyang.
In the spring of the eighth year, in the first month of the first lunar month, I sent the official Zuo Xian, a regular servant of the Central Government, to Ku County to offer sacrifices to Lao Tzu.
Liu Kui, King of Bohai, conspired to rebel and was demoted to King of Tartao.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The princes, ministers, and lieutenants were ordered to recommend virtuous and upright people.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
二月己酉，南宫嘉德署黄龙见。千秋万岁殿火。
太仆左称有罪自杀。
癸亥，皇后邓氏废。
河南尹邓万世、虎贲中郎将邓会下狱死。
护羌校尉段颎击罕姐羌，破之。
三月辛巳，大赦天下。
夏四月甲寅，安陵园寝火。
丁巳，坏郡国诸房祀。
济阴、东郡、济北河水清。
五月壬申，罢太山都尉官。
丙戌，太尉杨秉薨。
六月丙辰，缑氏地裂。
桂阳胡兰、朱盖等复反，攻没郡县，转寇零陵，零陵太守陈球拒之；遣中郎将度尚、长沙太守抗徐等击兰、盖，大破斩之。
苍梧太守张叙为贼所执，又桂阳太守任胤背敌畏懦，皆弃市。
闰月甲午，南宫长秋和欢殿后钩楯、掖庭、朔平署火。
六月，段颎击当煎羌于湟中，大破之。
秋七月，太中大夫陈蕃为太尉。
八月戊辰，初令郡国有田者亩敛税钱。
九月丁未，京师地震。
冬十月，司空周景免，太常刘茂为司空。
辛巳，立贵人窦氏为皇后。
勃海妖贼盖登等称 太上皇帝 ，有玉印、珪、璧、铁券，相署置，皆伏诛。
十一月壬子，德阳殿西閤、黄门北寺火，延及广义、神虎门，烧杀人。
使中常侍管霸之苦县，祠老子。
九年春正月辛卯朔，日有食之。
translation: 
On February 13, a yellow dragon appeared in the Nangong Jiade Office, and a fire broke out in the Qianqiu Long Live Hall.
The servant Zuo claimed that he was guilty and committed suicide.
On the 27th, Queen Deng was deposed.
His uncle Yin Deng Wanshi of Henan and his brother Huben Zhonglang imprisoned Deng Hui to death.
Duan Yu, the captain who protected the Qiang, attacked the Hanjie Qiang and defeated them.
On March 16th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
On April 19th in the summer, a fire broke out in Anlingyuan's bedroom.
On the 22nd, all ancestral halls in the county and country were destroyed.
The Yellow River water in Jiyin, Dongjun and Jibei is clear.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, I left and went to Taishan as the captaincy officer.
On the 22nd, Taiwei Yang Bing passed away.
On June 22nd, the Goushi earthquake occurred.
Hu Lan and Zhu Gai rebelled again in Guiyang, captured the prefectures and counties, and turned to Lingling. Chen Qiu, the prefect of Lingling, resisted them. The emperor sent Zhonglang General Du Shang and the prefect of Changsha to resist Xu and others to fight against Hu Lan and Zhu Gai. They were defeated and killed.
Zhang Xu, the governor of Cangwu, was captured by thieves, and Ren Yin, the governor of Guiyang, was afraid of the enemy and was weak. Both of them were executed in the city.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month, a fire broke out in the Goucheng, Yeting and Shuoping offices behind the Nangong Changqiu and Huan Halls.
In June, Duan Yun attacked and burned Qiang in Huangzhong, defeating the enemy.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chen Fan, the doctor of Taizhong, was appointed as Taiwei.
On the sixth day of August, the county began to order a tax of ten yuan per acre of land.
On September 15th, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In October of winter, Sikong Zhoujing was dismissed from his post and Taichang Liu Mao was appointed as Sikong.
On the 20th, the noble Dou was made queen.
Gai Deng, the demon thief from Bohai, and others were called the Supreme Emperor. They had jade seals, Wang Guibi, and iron certificates. They set up official posts and appointed officials, but they were all killed.
On November 21, a fire broke out in the West Pavilion of Deyang Palace and the North Temple of Huangmen. It spread to Guangxi and Shenhu Gate in the west of Luoyang Palace, burning people to death.
The sect often sent Guan Ba ​​to Ku County to offer sacrifices to Lao Tzu.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
诏公、卿、校尉、郡国举至孝。
沛国戴异得黄金印，无文字，遂与广陵人龙尚等共祭井，作符书，称 太上皇 ，伏诛。
己酉，诏曰： 比岁不登，民多饥穷，又有水旱疾疫之困。
盗贼征发，南州尤甚。
灾异日食，谴告累至。
政乱在予，仍获咎征。
其令大司农绝今岁调度征求，及前年所调未毕者，勿复收责。
其灾旱盗贼之郡，勿收租，馀郡悉半入。
三月癸巳，京师有火光转行，人相惊噪。
司隶、豫州饥死者什四五，至有灭户者，遣三府掾赈禀之。
陈留太守韦毅坐臧自杀。
夏四月，济阴、东郡、济北、平原河水清。
司徒许栩免。
五月，太常胡广为司徒。
六月，南匈奴及乌桓、鲜卑寇缘边九郡。
秋七月，沈氐羌寇武威、张掖。
诏举武猛，三公各二人，卿、校尉各一人。
太尉陈蕃免。
庚午，祠黄、老于濯龙宫。
translation: 
The princes, ministers, lieutenants, and prefectures are ordered to recommend the most filial persons.
Dai Yi of Pei State obtained a golden seal without any writing, so he and Long Shang from Guangling and others jointly offered sacrifices to the well, made a talisman, and called him "Tai Shang Huang", but he was executed.
On the 19th, the edict stated: The grain harvest has been poor in the past few years, and most of the people are hungry and impoverished. They are also troubled by floods, droughts and epidemics.
Because thieves frequently requisition private manpower and material resources, the situation in Changsha, Guiyang, Lingling and other counties is even more serious.
Disasters, visions, eclipses, and condemnations come one after another.
This was caused by political chaos, and the responsibility rested entirely with me, so I was frequently blamed and punished.
Da Sinong is now ordered to stop the collection of land rent and taxes this year, and any unfinished collection of land rent and taxes from the previous year will no longer be collected.
Counties that have been damaged by floods, droughts, epidemics, and thieves will not collect rent, while other counties will charge half rent.
On the fourth day of March, there was a fire in the capital, and people were surprised and noisy.
Four or five out of ten people in Sili and Yuzhou died of starvation, and even the entire household died, so the three prefectures were sent to distribute grain for relief.
Governor Chenliu committed suicide due to corruption.
In April in summer, the water in the Yellow River in Jiyin, Dongjun, Jibei and Pingyuan is clear.
Situ Xu Xu was dismissed.
In May, Taichang and Hu Guang were appointed as Situ.
In June, the Southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan and Xianbei invaders harassed the nine border counties.
In the autumn of July, Shen Di and Qiang bandits raided Wuwei and Zhangye.
When the imperial edict recommends powerful warriors, the three princes each recommend two people, and the ministers and lieutenants each recommend one person.
Taiwei Chen Fan was dismissed from his post.
On Gengwu day, sacrifices were made to Huangdi and Laozi in Zhuolong Palace.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
遣使匈奴中郎将张奂击南匈奴、乌桓、鲜卑。
九月，光禄勋周景为太尉。
南阳太守成瑨、太原太守刘质，并以谮弃市。
司空刘茂免。
大秦国王遣使奉献。
冬十二月，洛城傍竹柏枯伤。
光禄勋汝南宣酆为司空。
南匈奴、乌桓率众诣张奂降。
司隶校尉李膺等二百余人受诬为党人，并坐下狱，书名王府。
永康元年春正月，先零羌寇三辅，中郎将张奂破平之。
当煎羌寇武威，护羌校尉段颎追击于鸾鸟，大破之。
西羌悉平。
夫馀王寇玄菟，太守公孙域与战，破之。
夏四月，先零羌寇三辅。
五月丙申，京师及上党地裂。
庐江贼起，寇郡界。
壬子晦，日有食之。诏公、卿、校尉举贤良方正。
六月庚申，大赦天下，悉除党锢，改元永康。
丙寅，阜陵王统薨。
秋八月，魏郡言嘉禾生，甘露降。
巴郡言黄龙见。
六州大水，勃海海溢。
translation: 
He sent an envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General Zhang Huan to attack the southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan, and Xianbei.
In September, Guang Luxun and Zhou Jing were appointed as Taiwei.
Cheng Wang Jin, the governor of Nanyang, and Liu Zhi, the governor of Taiyuan, were both executed in the city on false accusations.
Sikong Liu Mao was dismissed from office.
The King of Qin sent envoys to offer gifts.
In the winter of December, the bamboos and cypresses beside Luocheng withered.
Ren Guangluxun and Runan Xuanbang were appointed Sikong.
The Southern Xiongnu and Wuhuan led their troops to surrender in front of Zhang Huan.
More than 200 people including Li Ying, the captain of Sili School, were falsely accused of being party members, so they were imprisoned together and were named Wangfu.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Yongkang, the first Qiang bandits plundered Sanfu, and Zhang Huan, the general of Zhonglang, defeated them and put them down.
When the Jian Qiang bandits raided Wuwei, Duan Yin, the guard of the Qiang army, pursued Luanniao and defeated them.
All the Xiqiang were pacified.
King Fuyu plundered Xuantu, and the prefect Gongsun Yu defeated them.
In April of summer, the first Qiang bandits raided Sanfu.
On May 14, the capital and Shangdang were torn apart.
Lujiang thieves arose and bandits plundered the county boundaries.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The imperial edict ordered the public, ministers, and lieutenants to recommend virtuous and upright people.
On the eighth day of the sixth lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and all party shackles were lifted, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yongkang.
On the 14th, King Liu Tong of Fuling passed away.
In autumn and August, Wei County reported the growth of golden crops and timely rains.
A yellow dragon was reported in Berkshire.
There are floods in the six states, and the sea water of Bohai Sea overflows.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
诏州郡赐溺死者七岁以上钱，人二千；一家皆被害者，悉为收敛；其亡失谷食，禀人三斛。
冬十月，先零羌寇三辅，使匈奴中郎将张奂击破之。
十一月，西河言白菟见。
十二月壬申，复癭陶王悝为勃海王。
丁丑，帝崩于德阳前殿。年三十六。
戊寅，尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
是岁，复博陵、河间二郡，比丰、沛。
论曰：前史称桓帝好音乐，善琴笙。
饰芳林而考濯龙之宫，设华盖以祠浮图、老子，斯将所谓 听于神 乎！
及诛梁冀，奋威怒，天下犹企其休息。
而五邪嗣虐，流衍四方。
自非忠贤力争，屡折奸锋，虽愿依斟流彘，亦不可得已。
赞曰：桓自宗支，越跻天禄。
政移五幸，刑淫三狱。
倾宫虽积，皇身靡续。
translation: 
The prefectures and counties were ordered to give two thousand dollars to each drowned person over seven years old; if the whole family was killed, they would all be buried; if there was grain lost in the drift, each person would be given three dendrobium grains.
In the winter of October, Xianling Qiang bandits plundered Sanfu, and the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan defeated them.
In November, Xihe reported sightings of white tigers.
On December 23, King Taotao was restored to King Bohai.
On the 28th, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Deyang at the age of thirty-six.
On the 29th, the queen was honored as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager came to court.
This year, the two counties of Boling and Hejian were restored, just like Feng and Pei.
Historians commented: Previous history books said that Emperor Huan loved music and was good at playing the piano and sheng.
Zhuolong Palace Garden is decorated with trees, flowers and plants. Setting up a canopy to offer sacrifices to the Buddha and the Elders may be the so-called "our country is about to perish. Let's listen to the gods!"
When Liang Ji was executed, he was vigorous and angry, and the whole world was eager to rest and recuperate.
However, he doted on the five eunuchs such as Shanchao, who had a thick seal, so that the five evils were rampant and the poison spread everywhere.
If it weren't for Li Ying and other loyal and virtuous righteous men who spoke out and repeatedly killed the traitors, even if Emperor Huan wanted to have the same result as Emperor Xia's attachment to the princes and King Li of Zhou's escape to pig, he would not have achieved the same result.
Historians praised: Emperor Huan came from a distant branch of the Liu family, transcending the order and ascending to the throne of heaven.
The political power was indiscriminately transferred to Shan Chao and other five eunuchs, and the punishment and imprisonment were indiscriminately imposed on Li Gu and other three prisons.
There are three queens and five or six thousand maids. Although the palace was filled with beauties, there were no heirs in the end, and the emperor's body could not be continued.


