Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩信，淮阴人也。
家贫无行，不得推择为吏，又不能治生为商贾，常从人寄食。
其母死无以葬，乃行营高燥地，令傍可置万家者。
信从下乡南昌亭长食，亭长妻苦之，乃晨炊蓐食。
食时信往，不为具食。
信亦知其意，自绝去。
至城下钓，有一漂母哀之，饭信，意漂数十日。
信谓漂母曰： 吾必重报母。
母怒曰： 大丈夫不能自食，吾哀王孙而进食，岂望报乎！
淮阴少年又侮信曰： 虽长大，好带刀剑，怯耳。
众辱信曰： 能死，刺我；不能，出胯下。
于是信孰视，俯出跨下。
一市皆笑信，以为怯。
及项梁度淮，信乃杖剑从之，居戏下，无所知名。
梁败，又属项羽，为郎中。
信数以策干项羽，羽弗用。
汉王之入蜀，信亡楚归汉，未得知名，为连敖。
坐法当斩，其畴十三人皆已斩，至信，信乃仰视，适见滕公，曰： 上不欲就天下乎？
而斩壮士！
滕公奇其言，壮其貌，释弗斩。
与语，大说之，言于汉王。
汉王以为治粟都尉，上未奇之也。
数与萧何语，何奇之。
至南郑，诸将道亡者数十人。
信度何等已数言上，不我用，即亡。
何闻信亡，不及以闻，自追之。
人有言上曰： 丞相何亡。
上怒，如失左右手。
居一二日，何来谒。
上且怒且喜，骂何曰： 若亡，何也？
何曰： 臣非敢亡，追亡者耳。
translation: 
Han Xin was born in Huaiyin County.
The family is poor and has no good character. He cannot be elected to be an official, and he cannot do business to make a living. He often lives in other people's homes and eats nothing.
His mother passed away and was too poor to bury her, so he found a high, dry place with spacious surroundings as a cemetery so that tens of thousands of families could be placed next to the grave in the future.
Han Xin once went to the countryside to eat at the pavilion chief's house in Nanchang. The pavilion chief's wife hated him so much that she got up very early to prepare the meal and put it on the bed to eat.
When it was breakfast time, Han Xin went and no meal was prepared for him.
Han Xin understood her intention and left her, never to interact with her again.
Han Xin once went fishing in the city. An old woman was rinsing silk cotton wool. She took pity on him and gave him food. This continued for dozens of days until the rinsing was completed.
Han Xin said gratefully to his old mother: I will definitely repay you heavily in the future.
The old man was very angry after hearing this and said, "You are a man and can't support yourself. I gave you food out of pity for you, a young man. Do I want you to repay me?"
A young man in Huaiyin City bullied Han Xin and said: Although you are tall and like to wear swords, you are actually very timid.
He insulted Han Xin in public and said: If you are not afraid of death, stab me with a sword; if you are afraid of death, get under my crotch.
So Han Xin stared at the young man carefully, then bent down and crawled under his crotch.
People watching the excitement on the street laughed at Han Xin and thought he was cowardly.
When Xiang Liang led his army across the Huai River to the north, Han Xin took his sword and went to him, and became an unknown soldier under Xiang Liang.
After Xiang Liang failed, he returned to Xiang Yu, who made him a doctor.
Han Xin repeatedly offered advice to Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu did not adopt it.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and Han Xin escaped from the Chu army and joined the king of Han. At the beginning, he was still unknown and worked as a granary management clerk.
Later, he was sentenced to death for breaking the law. Thirteen of his accomplices were beheaded. When it was Han Xin's turn, Han Xin looked up and happened to see Teng Gong Xia Houying, so he asked: Doesn't the King of Han want to unify the world?
Why kill the strong man?
Teng Gong felt that Han Xin's words were unusual and he looked very powerful, so he did not kill him.
After talking to Han Xin, he was very happy and reported his situation to the King of Han.
The King of Han appointed Han Xin as the Commander-in-Chief of Su Su, but did not reuse him.
Han Xin talked with Xiao He many times, and Xiao He appreciated his talent very much.
When the Han army arrived at Nanzheng, dozens of generals escaped halfway.
Han Xin considered that Xiao He and others had recommended him to the King of Han several times, but he still could not be reused, so he ran away.
Xiao He heard that Han Xin had escaped. He had no time to report to the king of Han, so he went to chase him himself.
Someone reported to the King of Han: Prime Minister Xiao He has escaped.
The king of Han was furious, as if he had lost his left and right hands.
Two days later, Xiao He came to see the King of Han.
The King of Han was both angry and happy, and scolded Xiao He: "Why did you run away?"
Xiao He replied: How dare I run away? I am chasing those who run away.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
上曰： 所追者谁也？
曰： 韩信。
上复骂曰： 诸将亡者以十数，公无所追；追信，诈也。
何曰： 诸将易得，至如信，国士无双。
王必欲长王汉中，无所事信；必欲争天下，非信无可与计事者。
顾王策安决。
王曰： 吾亦欲东耳，安能郁郁久居此乎？
何曰： 王计必东，能用信，信即留；不能用信，信终亡耳。
王曰： 吾为公以为将。
何曰： 虽为将，信不留。
王曰： 以为大将。
何曰： 幸甚。
于是王欲召信拜之。
何曰： 王素嫚无礼，今拜大将如召小儿，此乃信所以去也。
王必欲拜之，择日斋戒，设坛场具礼，乃可。
王许之。
诸将皆喜，人人各自以为得大将。
至拜，乃韩信也，一军皆惊。
信已拜，上坐。
王曰： 丞相数言将军，将军何以教寡人计策？
信谢，因问王曰： 今东乡争权天下，岂非项王邪？
上曰： 然。 信曰： 大王自料勇悍仁强孰与项王？
汉王默然良久，曰： 弗如也。
信再拜贺曰： 唯信亦以为大王弗如也。然臣尝事项王，请言项王为人也。
项王意乌猝嗟，千人皆废，然不能任属贤将，上特匹夫之勇也。
项王见人恭谨，言语姁姁，人有病疾，涕泣分食饮，至使人有功，当封爵，刻印刓，忍不能予，此所谓妇人之仁也。
项王虽霸天下而臣诸侯，不居关中而都彭城；又背义帝约，而以亲爱王，诸侯不平。
translation: 
The king of Han asked: Who are you chasing?
Xiao He replied: It's Han Xin.
The King of Han scolded again: "There are dozens of generals who have escaped, but you have not pursued them; you only pursued Han Xin. This is a lie."
Xiao He said: Those generals are easy to get, and outstanding talents like Han Xin can be said to be unparalleled in the world.
Your Majesty, if you only want to be king in the desert, then there is nothing that requires Han Xin; if you want to fight for the world, there will be no one except Han Xin who can discuss major matters with you.
It depends on how the king makes decisions.
The King of Han said: I want to develop to the east, how can I stay limited to this place?
Xiao He said: If the king is determined to march eastward and can reuse Han Xin, Han Xin will come; if he cannot reuse Han Xin, Han Xin will eventually run away.
The king of Han said: For your sake, let him be a general.
Xiao He said: Even if he is made a general, Han Xin will not stay.
The king of Han said: Then appoint him as a general.
Xiao He said: Great!
So the King of Han wanted to summon Han Xin immediately to announce his appointment.
Xiao He said: Your Majesty, you have always been arrogant and disrespectful to others. Now appointing generals is like calling a child. This is why Han Xin wants to leave.
If the king is determined to appoint him, he should choose a good day, fast and bathe, set up an altar and square, and hold a formal ceremony to worship the general. This is all right.
The king of Han agreed to Xiao He's request.
The generals were very happy when they heard that the King of Han was going to set up an altar to worship the general. Everyone thought that he was going to be a general.
When the ceremony of consecration was held, they found out that the general was Han Xin. The whole army was surprised.
After Han Xin accepted the ceremony of conferring the title of general, he sat down.
The King of Han asked Han Xin: The Prime Minister has recommended generals to me many times. What strategies do you have for me?
Han Xin expressed his humility and said to the King of Han: Now in the East, who can compete with the king for the world, isn't it King Xiang?
The King of Han said: Of course it is. Xin said: Your Majesty, in your own estimation, who is stronger than King Xiang in terms of bravery, strength and military strength?
The King of Han was silent for a long time and said: "I am not as good as King Xiang."
Han Xin bowed twice and said appreciatively: "Han Xin also thinks that the king is inferior to him. I once served King Xiang. Let me talk about King Xiang's character."
The king shouted angrily, and hundreds or thousands of people would be too frightened to move: "But you cannot use capable generals, only brave ones, not just warriors."
King Xiang treated people with respect and humility, and spoke docilely. When someone was sick, he would sympathize with him and shed tears, and share his food and drink with him. When the person he appointed had made meritorious service and should be given a title, he would hold the engraved seal in his hand and be reluctant to give it to others even though the edges were almost worn away. This is what people call a woman's kindness.
Although King Xiang dominated the world and made the princes surrender, he did not occupy Guanzhong and Pengcheng. He also violated Emperor Yi's agreement with the princes and sealed all his relatives as kings of Guanzhong. The princes were all angry.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
诸侯之见项王逐义帝江南，亦皆归逐其主，自王善地。
项王所过亡不残灭，多怨百姓，百姓不附，特劫于威，强服耳。
名虽为霸，实失天下心，故曰其强易弱。
今大王诚能反其道，任天下武勇，何不诛！
以天下城邑封功臣，何不服！
以义兵从思东归之士，何不散！
且三秦王为秦将，将秦子弟数岁，而所杀亡不可胜计，又欺其众降诸侯。至新安，项王诈坑秦降卒二十余万人，唯独邯、欣、翳脱。
秦父兄怨此三人，痛于骨髓。
今楚强以威王此三人，秦民莫爱也。
大王之入武关，秋毫亡所害，除秦苛法，与民约，法三章耳，秦民亡不欲得大王王秦者。
于诸侯之约，大王当王关中，关中民户知之。王失职之蜀，民亡不恨者。
今王举而东，三秦可传檄而定也。
于是汉王大喜，自以为得信晚。遂听信计，部署诸将所击。
汉王举兵东出陈仓，定三秦。
二年，出关，收魏、河南，韩、殷王皆降。
令齐、赵共击楚彭城，汉兵败散而还。
信复发兵与汉王会荥阳，复击破楚京、索间，以故楚不能西。
汉之败却彭城，塞王欣、翟王翳亡汉降楚，齐、赵、魏亦皆反，与楚和。
汉王使郦生往说魏王豹，豹不听，乃以信为左丞相击魏。
信问郦生： 魏得毋用周叔为大将乎？
曰： 栢直也。
信曰： 竖子耳！
translation: 
When the princes saw that King Xiang had expelled Emperor Yi to the south of the Yangtze River, they all went back and expelled their original monarchs, occupied the rich land, and established themselves as kings.
Wherever King Xiang's army passed, there was no place that was not destroyed and destroyed. The people in the world resented him and were not willing to join him. They were just afraid of his power and were forced to obey.
Although he is the overlord of the world in name, he has actually lost the hearts of the people in the world, so he seems to be strong but is actually weak.
Now that the king is really able to take the completely opposite approach to King Xiang and appoint the brave and capable talents in the world, there is no enemy that cannot be eliminated!
If the cities in the world are entrusted to meritorious ministers, who else will not be convinced!
He led the army of justice and obeyed the wishes of the soldiers to return home. What enemy can't be defeated!
Moreover, the three kings who were enfeoffed in Qin were the original generals of the Qin army. They led the children of the Qin people in the war, and countless of them were killed and fled. They also deceived their subordinates to surrender to Xiang Yu: when they arrived in Xin'an, King Xiang used cunning means to bury alive the surrendered soldiers of the Qin army, more than 200,000 of them. Only Zhang Han, Sima Xin and Dong Yi were able to escape.
The fathers and brothers of Qin hated these three people to their very core.
Now the overlord of Western Chu relies on his power to forcibly ennoble these three people as kings. The people of Qin will not love them.
After the king led his army into Wuguan, the discipline was strict and there was no violation of Qiu. He abolished the harsh laws of the Qin Dynasty and made a three-part agreement with the people of Guanzhong. The people of Qin all hope that the king will come to Qin and become the king.
According to the agreement between Emperor Yi and the princes, the king was supposed to be the king of Guanzhong. All the people in Guanzhong knew this. The king lost his rightful title of king of Guanzhong and was demoted to Hanzhong. The people of Guanzhong were all resentful.
Now that the king has sent troops to advance, the fiefdom of the Three Qin kings can be pacified as long as a document is passed down.
So the King of Han was very happy, thinking that it was too late to get Han Xin, so he arranged the targets for the generals to attack according to Han Xin's strategy.
The king of Han sent troops to march eastward through Chencang and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, he led his troops out of Hanguguan and conquered the king of Wei and the king of Henan. The king of Han and Yin also surrendered.
Then he united the troops of Qi and Tang to attack Pengcheng, the capital of Chu. The Han soldiers were defeated and returned in disarray.
Bi Xin then sent troops to join forces with Mu Yingchang, and attacked the Chu army between the fortress and the fortress, and defeated the Chu army. Therefore, the Chu army could not advance westward.
After the Han army was defeated in Pengcheng, Sima Xin, king of Sai, and Dong Yi, king of Zhai, escaped from the Han army and surrendered to the Chu army. Bianyou, Shengyu and Qu also rebelled against each other and made peace with each other.
He sent Tai Qi to lobby Wei King Bao, but Wei Bao refused to listen, so he appointed Locust Xin as Zuo Prime Minister to attack Qu.
Cross-examining Su: Can Qu not use Uncle Dan as a general?
Li Sheng replied: The general is Yuan Zhi.
The whole letter said: He is just a child.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
遂进兵击魏。
魏盛兵蒲坂，塞临晋。
信乃益为疑兵，陈船欲度临晋，而伏兵从夏阳以木罂缶度军，袭安邑。
魏王豹惊，引兵迎信。
信遂虏豹，定河东，使人请权王： 愿益兵三万人，臣请以北举燕、赵，东击齐，南绝楚之粮道，西与大王会于荥阳。
汉王与兵三万人，遣张耳与俱，进击赵、代。
破代，禽夏说阏与。
信之下魏、代，汉辄使人收其精兵，诣荥阳以距楚。
信、耳以兵数万，欲东下井陉击赵。
赵王、成安君陈馀闻汉且袭之，聚兵井陉口，号称二十万。
广武君李左车说成安君曰： 闻汉将韩信涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说，新喋血阏与。
今乃辅以张耳，议欲以下赵，此乘胜而去国远斗，其锋不可当。
臣闻 千里馈粮，士有饥色；樵苏后爨，师不宿饱。 今井陉之道，车不得方轨，骑不得成列，行数百里，其势粮食必在后。
愿足下假臣奇兵三万人，从间路绝其辎重；足下深沟高垒勿与战。
彼前不得斗，退不得还，吾奇兵绝其后，野无所掠卤，不至十日，两将之头可致戏下。
愿君留意臣之计，必不为二子所禽矣。
成安君，儒者，常称义兵不用诈谋奇计，谓曰： 吾闻兵法 什则围之，倍则战。 今韩信兵号数万，其实不能，千里袭我，亦以罢矣。
今如此避弗击，后有大者，何以距之？
诸侯谓吾怯，而轻来伐我。
不听广武君策。
信使间人窥知其不用，还报，则大喜，乃敢引兵遂下。
translation: 
Then he marched to attack the grasshopper.
The king of Wei deployed heavy troops in Zhayuan and blocked Linjin Pass.
Hanzhi then set up additional suspects, deployed his boats, and pretended to cross the river from Zhuozhi. He also sent a concealed ambush force to cross the river from Xia Yang with wooden urns and basins of floating water to sneak attack Anyi.
King Wei Bao of Wei was greatly frightened and hurriedly led his troops to attack Zhengzhi. He captured Wei Bao and put Mi down.
After that, Han Xin sent someone to see the King of Han and said: I hope to increase the number of 30,000 troops. I request to take advantage of the victory and march north to conquer the two countries Yan and Zhao, attack Qi to the east, cut off Chu's grain routes to the south, and finally go west to join forces with the king in Rongyang.
The King of Han agreed to give Han Xin 30,000 more troops, and sent Tan Dan and Han Zhi to attack Zhao Er and Ji Er to the north.
He defeated the attacking army and captured Xia Yue alive in the hammer.
After Kongcao captured Chongxiao and Zhuyou, the King of Han sent people to call back his elite troops and marched to Rongyang to resist the Chu army.
Han Xin and Zhang Er led tens of thousands of troops and wanted to march eastward to capture Jingxing and attack Zhao.
King Chu and Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, heard that the Han army was about to attack Zhao, so they gathered a heavy army to guard Jingxingkou, claiming to have an army of 200,000.
Lord Guangwu Li Zuoche gave advice to Lord Chengan and said: I heard that the Han general Han Xin crossed the Xihe River, captured the king of Wei, and captured Xia Shuo alive. They had just fought a bloody battle to break up the alliance.
Now with Zhang Er as an assistant, he plans to attack Zhao. This is a battle far away from the country while taking advantage of the victory. The attack is unstoppable.
But I heard that when military rations are transported from thousands of miles away, the soldiers will look hungry; when firewood and grass are temporarily used for cooking, the army often cannot eat enough. Nowadays, the road in Jingxing is narrow and cannot pass two parallel chariots.
I hope you can lend me 30,000 elite troops for the time being to intercept their supplies of food and supplies from the small road. You must dig trenches deep, build forts high, and refuse to fight.
They can't engage in battle if they move forward, and can't go back if they retreat. I lead a surprise attack force to cut off their retreat, so that they can't plunder any food in the wild. In less than ten days, the heads of the two generals will be delivered to your tent.
I hope you will seriously consider my strategy, and I guarantee that you will not be captured by these two people.
Cheng'anjun is a nerd, and often claims that a just army does not use deceit and trickery. He said: I heard that in the art of war, if the force is ten times more than the enemy, you can surround them, and if you have more than twice the force, you can fight. Now Han Xin's army is said to be tens of thousands, but in fact it is not that many. They have traveled thousands of miles to attack us, and they are exhausted.
If we are unable to retreat from such an enemy now, how will we resist if we encounter a more powerful enemy in the future?
The princes will think that we are timid and attack us easily.
Therefore, he did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy.
Han Xin sent spies to find out that Chen Yu did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy and came back to report. Han Xin was overjoyed and dared to lead his army there.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
未至井陉口三十里，止舍。
夜半传发，选轻骑二千人，人持一赤帜，从间道萆山而望超军，戒曰： 赵见我走，必空壁逐我，若疾入，拔赵帜，立汉帜。
令其裨将传餐，曰： 今日破赵会食。
诸将皆呒然，阳应曰： 诺。
信谓军吏曰： 赵已先据便地壁，且彼未见大将旗鼓，未肯击前行，恐吾阻险而还。
乃使万人先行，出，背水阵。
赵兵望见大笑。
平旦，信建大将旗鼓，鼓行出井陉口，赵开壁击之，大战良久。
于是信、张耳弃鼓旗，走水上军，复疾战。
赵空壁争汉鼓旗，逐信、耳。
信、耳已入水上军，军皆殊死战，不可败。
信所出奇兵二千骑者，候赵空壁逐利，即驰入赵壁，皆拔赵旗帜，立汉赤帜二千。
赵军已不能得信、耳等，欲还归壁，壁皆汉赤帜，大惊，以汉为皆已破赵王将矣，遂乱，遁走。
赵将虽斩之，弗能禁。
于是汉兵夹击，破虏赵军，斩成安君泜水上，禽赵王歇。
信乃令军毋斩广武君，有生得之者，购千金。
顷之，有缚至戏下者，信解其缚，东乡坐，西乡对而师事之。
诸校效首虏休，皆贺，因问信曰： 兵法有 右背山陵，前左水泽 ，今者将军令臣等反背水阵，曰破赵会食，臣等不服。
然竟以胜，此何术也？
信曰： 此在兵法，顾诸君弗察耳。
translation: 
We stopped and camped less than thirty miles away from Jingxingkou.
At midnight, the order was sent to set off, and 2,000 light cavalry were selected. Each of them took a red flag, went up the mountain from the trail, and hid in the mountain to observe the army. He warned everyone: "When the army sees our army retreating and fleeing, they will definitely attack us in full force. At this time, you rush into the Zhao army's camp, remove the Zhao army's flag, and plant the Han army's flag."
He also asked the deputy general to send an order to eat some dry food on the spot first, and told the generals: "Today we will hold a banquet after conquering the Kingdom of Zhao!"
The generals didn't believe it and only pretended to agree: "Yes."
Han Xin then said to the deacon officer: Zhao Jun has occupied a favorable terrain and set up camp, and they will not come out to attack our vanguard until they see the banner of our general. I am afraid that we will retreat when we reach the dangerous point of the pass.
Han Xin then dispatched 10,000 people to set off first. After leaving Jingxingkou, they formed a formation with their backs to the river.
Zhao Jun laughed when he saw this formation.
After daybreak, Han Xin raised the general's flag, beat the war drum, and walked out of Jingxingkou with great fanfare. The Zhao army opened the camp and attacked the Han army. The battle lasted for a long time.
At this time, Han Xin and Zhang Er pretended that they could not hold on, abandoned their flags and drums and fled quickly into the army arrayed by the water, and then turned around and fought fiercely.
As expected, Zhaojun sent out all his troops to fight for the banners and drums of the Han army and chased Han Xin and Zhang Er.
Han Xin and Zhang Er have entered the military formation by the river. The soldiers are fighting to the death and cannot be defeated.
The 2,000 light cavalry sent by Han Xin, when the whole army went out to fight for the spoils, rushed into the Zhao army's camp, pulled out all the Zhao army's flags, and planted 2,000 Han army red flags.
Seeing that they could not win and could not capture Han Xin, Zhang Er and others, the Zhao army wanted to retreat to the camp. They found that the camp was covered with red flags of the Han army. They were panicked, thinking that the Han army had defeated King Zhao and his generals. The battle was in chaos and they fled.
Although the generals of the army killed the deserters, they could not stop them.
So the Han army attacked from front to back, defeated the Zhao army, captured a large number of troops, beheaded Chen Yu, the king of Cheng'an, and captured Wang Xie alive by the riverside.
Han Xin ordered his troops not to kill Lord Guangwu. Anyone who could capture him alive would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
After a while, someone tied up Mr. Guangwu and sent him to the military camp. Han Xin immediately untied the ropes from his body and asked him to sit facing east while he sat facing west, treating him like a teacher.
After all the generals presented their heads and prisoners, they all congratulated Han Xin and took the opportunity to ask Han Xin: The art of war says that the right side of the military formation should be backed by mountains, and the front and left sides should be backed by water. This time, the general ordered us to line up with our backs to the water, and even said that if we were defeated, we would go to the army dinner. We were not convinced at all.
However, they actually succeeded. What kind of tactics was this?
Han Xin said: This kind of formation exists in the art of war, but you just didn't pay attention to it.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
兵法不曰 陷之死地而后生，投之亡地而后存 乎？
且信非得素拊循士大夫，经所谓 驱市人而战之 也，其势非置死地，人人自为战；今即予生地，皆走，宁尚得而用之乎！
诸将皆服曰： 非所及也。
于是问广武君曰： 仆欲北攻燕，东伐齐，何若有功 广武君辞曰： 臣闻 亡国之大夫不可以图存，败军之将不可以语勇。
若臣者，何足以权大事乎！
信曰： 仆闻之，百里奚居虞而虞亡，之秦而秦伯，非愚于虞而智于秦也，用与不用，听与不听耳。
向使成安君听子计，仆亦禽矣。
仆委心归计，愿子勿辞。
广武君曰： 臣闻 智者千虑，必有一失；愚者千虑，亦有一得。 故曰 狂夫之言，圣人择焉。 顾恐臣计未足用，愿效愚忠。
故成安君有百战百胜之计，一日而失之，军败鄗下，身死泜水上。
今足下虏魏王，禽夏说，不旬朝破赵二十万众，诛成安君。
名闻海内，威震诸侯，众庶莫不辍作怠惰，靡衣偷食，倾耳以待命者。
然而众劳卒罢，其实难用也。
今足下举倦敝之兵，顿之燕坚城之下，情见力屈，欲战不拔，旷日持久，粮食单竭。
若燕不破，齐必距境而以自强。
二国相持，则刘、项之权未有所分也。
臣愚，窍以为亦过矣。 信曰： 然则何由？
广武君对曰： 当今之计，不如按甲休兵，百里之内，牛、酒日至，以飨士大夫，北首燕路，然后发一乘之使，奉咫尺之书，以使燕，燕必不敢不听。
从燕而东临齐，虽有智者，亦不知为齐计矣。
如是，则天下事可图也。
兵故有先声而后实者，此之谓也。
translation: 
Doesn’t it say in the art of war that if you are in a desperate situation, you can fight hard to survive, and if you are in a desperate situation, you can fight hard to survive?
Moreover, I, Han Xin, am not leading soldiers who have been trained by me for a long time and completely obey my command. This is what the military book calls "temporarily driving citizens to fight." Under this situation, the soldiers must be put to death and let each of them automatically fight bravely for survival; if the army is deployed in an open area where it is easy to escape, everyone will flee without fighting. How can we use them to defeat the enemy?
The generals all said with admiration: "The general's high-level strategy is beyond our ability to match."
So Han Xin asked Lord Guangwu: I want to attack Yan State in the north and Qi State in the east. How do you think I can succeed? Guangwu Jun Qianrang said: I heard that ministers who have lost their country are not qualified to plan the survival of the country, and generals who have lost battles are not qualified to talk about bravery.
How can a captive like me, who has been defeated and perished, be qualified to discuss important matters?
Han Xin said: I heard that when Baili Xi was in Yu State, Yu State perished, and when he arrived in Qin State, Qin State became hegemonic. It was not that he was stupid when he was in Yu State and became smart when he arrived in Qin State.
If Lord Cheng An had listened to your plan, I, Han Xin, would have been captured by you long ago.
I completely follow your plan and hope you will not refuse.
Lord Guangwu said: I heard that a wise man will make a mistake in every thought; a fool will gain something in a thousand thoughts. Therefore, even if it is a madman's words, a saint can selectively adopt them. However, I am afraid that my strategy may not be worth listening to, but I am willing to dedicate my sincerity to you.
Originally, Cheng'anjun had a plan to win every battle, but once he failed, his army was defeated under Haocheng and he himself died on the river.
Now the general captured the king of Wei and captured Xia Shuo alive. In less than a morning, he defeated the Zhao army of 200,000 men and killed Anjun.
He is so famous all over the world and so powerful that even the peasants of the enemy country have a premonition of the arrival of the army and they all give up farming. They are discouraged and want to eat well and wear well. They listen to you and wait for the news of your order to march.
However, your troops are so exhausted that it's actually difficult to continue fighting.
Now the general leads such tired soldiers and is trapped under the strong city of Yan State. The true situation is exposed to the enemy, and his momentum is weakened. He cannot attack the city if he wants to, and the wilderness lasts for a long time and the food is exhausted.
If Yan cannot be defeated, Qi will definitely refuse to defend its borders and become stronger.
If the Han army continues to stalemate with Yan and Tiao, the importance of Liu Bang and Xiang Yu will become indistinguishable.
I have little knowledge, but privately I think that attacking Yan and conquering Qi is also a mistake. Han Xin said: What should we do?
Lord Guangwu replied: The best way now is to stand still. Within a radius of a hundred miles, people would bring beef and wine every day, entertain the generals, and pretend to attack the Yan State in the north, and then send an envoy with a letter to the Yan State. The Yan State would not dare not listen.
After the Yan State was surrendered, the army moved eastward and approached Qi State. Although there were smart people, they did not know how to plan for Qi State.
In this way, the fight for the world can be realized.
When using troops, there is a tendency to bluff first and then take actual actions. This is what I am talking about.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
信曰： 善。敬奉教。
于是用广武君策，发使燕，燕从风而靡。
乃遣使报汉，因请立张耳王赵以抚其国。
汉王许之。
楚数使奇兵度河击赵，王耳、信往来救赵，因行定赵城邑，发卒佐汉。
楚方急围汉王荥阳，汉王出，南之宛、叶，得九江王布，入成皋，楚复急围之。
四年，汉王出成皋，度河，独与滕公从张耳军修武。
至，宿传舍。
晨自称汉使，驰入壁。
张耳、韩信未起，即其卧，夺其印符，麾召诸将易置之。
信、耳起，乃知独汉王来，大惊。
汉王夺两人军，即令张耳备守赵地，拜信为相国，发赵兵未发者击齐。
信引兵东，未度平原，闻汉王使郦食其已说下齐。
信欲止，蒯通说信令击齐。语在《通传》。
信然其计，遂渡河，袭历下军，至临菑。
齐王走高密，使使于楚请救。
信已定临菑，东追至高密西。
楚使龙且将，号称二十万，救齐。
齐王、龙且并军与信战，未合。
或说龙且曰： 汉兵远斗，穷寇久战，锋不可当也。
齐、楚自居其地战，兵易败散。
不如深壁，令齐王使其信臣招所亡城，城闻王在，楚来救，必反汉。
汉二千里客居齐，齐城皆反之，其势无所得食，可毋战而降也 龙且曰： 吾平生知韩信为人，易与耳。
translation: 
Han Xin said: Very good, thank you for your advice.
So he adopted Lord Guangwu's strategy and sent an envoy to the State of Yan. The State of Yan surrendered immediately after hearing the news.
Han Xin sent someone to report to the King of Han, and asked Zhang Er to be appointed King of Zhao to pacify the State of Zhao.
The king of Han agreed to his request.
Chu State sent raiding troops across the Yellow River to attack Zhao State many times. King Zhang Er of Chu State and Han Xin exchanged rescues, and the cities of Chu State were stabilized during the army's passing, and then troops were dispatched to support the King of Han.
The Chu army was besieging the King of Han in Rongyang. The King of Han broke out and went south to Wan County and Ye County. He conquered Jiujiang King Yingbu and entered Chenggao. The Chu army hurriedly surrounded them again.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han escaped from Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River, and defected alone with Teng Gong to Xiuwu County, where Zhang Er's army was stationed.
When I arrived at Xiuwu, I stayed in a guest house.
The next morning, someone claiming to be the envoy of the King of Han rode straight into the Zhao camp.
Before Zhang Er and Han Xin got up, the king of Han seized their seals and military symbols from their bedrooms, summoned the generals with military flags, and changed their positions.
After Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, they were surprised to know that the King of Han came to the camp alone.
The king of Han seized the two armies, ordered Zhang Er to defend Zhao, appointed Han Xin as prime minister, and mobilized Zhao's troops that had not been transferred to Rongyang to attack Qi.
Han Xin led his troops to advance, but before they crossed Pingyuanjin, they heard that the king of Han had sent Li Shiqi to persuade the king of Qi to surrender.
Han Xin wanted to stop advancing, but Kuai Tong persuaded Han Xin to continue attacking Qi. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Han Xin thought his strategy was right, so he led his troops across the Yellow River, attacked Qi's Lixia army, and took advantage of the victory to reach Linmiao, the capital of Qi.
King Tian Guang of Qi fled to Gaomi and sent an envoy to Chu to ask for help.
Han Xin pacified Linmiao and pursued King Qi eastward to the west of Gaomi.
The King of Chu also sent Long Qie to lead an army of 200,000 troops to rescue Qi.
King Tian Guang of Qi and General Long Qie of Chu united their armies to prepare for a battle with Han Xin, but they had not yet fought.
Someone advised Long Qie: The Han soldiers fought far away from the homeland. They were enemies who had fought for a long time and had no retreat. Their offensive was unstoppable.
The Qi and Chu armies fought in their own areas, and the soldiers easily escaped.
It is better to dig deep ditches and high forts, stand firm without fighting, and let the King of Qi send his trusted ministers to appease the lost cities. The people of these cities will definitely rebel against the Han army when they hear that the King of Qi is still there and the Chu army comes to rescue them.
The Zun army lived in the state of Cha, two thousand miles away, and all the cities in the state of Qi rebelled against them. In that case, there would be no place to get food, and the Han army could surrender without a fight. Long Qie said: I have always understood Han Xin's character. He is easy to deal with.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
寄食于漂母，无资身之策；受辱干跨下，无兼人之勇，不足畏也。
且救齐而降之，吾何功？
今战而胜之，齐半可得，何为而止！
遂战，与信夹濰水阵。
信乃夜令人为万余囊，盛沙以壅水上流，引兵半渡，击龙且。
阳不胜，还走。
龙且果喜曰： 固知信怯。
遂追渡水。
信使人决壅囊，水大至。
龙且军太半不得渡，即急击，杀龙且。
龙且水东军散走，齐王广亡去。
信追北至城阳，虏文。
楚卒皆降，遂平齐。
使人言汉王曰： 齐夸诈多变，反复之国，南边楚，不为假王以填之，其势不定。
今权轻，不足以安之，臣请自立为假王。
当是时，楚方急围汉王于荥阳，使者至，发书，汉王大怒，骂曰： 吾困于此，旦暮望而来佐我，乃欲自立为王！
张良、陈平伏后蹑汉王足，因附耳语曰： 汉方不利，宁能禁信之自王乎？
不如因立，善遇之，使自为守。
不然，变生。
汉王亦寤，因复骂曰： 大丈夫定诸侯，即为真王耳，何以假为！
遣张良立信为齐王，征其兵使击楚。
楚以亡龙且，项王恐，使盱台人武涉往说信曰： 足下何不反汉与楚？
楚王与足下有旧故。
且汉王不可必，身居项王掌握中数矣，然得脱，背约，复击项王，其不可亲信如此。
今足下虽自以为与汉王为金石交，然终为汉王所禽矣。
足下所以得须臾至今者，以项王在。
项王即亡，次取足下。
何不与楚连和，三分天下而王齐？
今释些时，自必于汉王以击楚，且为智者固若此邪！
translation: 
In the past, I relied on my old mother who rinsed silk cotton wool for food, and I didn't even have the means to support myself. I was also humiliated by crawling under people's crotches in public, and I didn't have the courage to win over others. There was nothing to be afraid of.
Besides, I came to the rescue of Qi and made Han Xin surrender without a fight, so what credit do I have?
If he is defeated through fighting, half of the land of Qi can be obtained, why not!
So he decided to fight and set up a battle formation across the distance from Zheng Zhi.
Zhizhi sent people to make more than 10,000 bags overnight, filled them with sand to block the upper reaches of the river to avoid the water, and led half of the troops across the river to attack Long Qi.
Pretend to be defeated and run back.
Long Qie said happily: "I knew Han Xin was timid."
He then crossed over to pursue Manxin.
Zhengxin sent people to dig out the sandbags blocking the river, and the river surged down.
Most of Long Qie's troops could not cross, so Han Xin immediately intercepted and killed Long Qie.
Long Qie's troops on the east bank of Weishui scattered and fled, and Wang Danchen also fled.
Huang Miao pursued the defeated soldiers to the cross-region area and captured Cha Wang Tianguang.
All the soldiers of the Chu army surrendered, thus pacifying the state of Qi.
Han Xin sent someone to write to the King of Han, saying: Qi is a cunning and capricious country, and it is close to Chu in the south. If an acting king is not established to pacify it, the situation will not be stable.
Now that my power is too small to stabilize Qi, I request to be appointed the acting King of Qi.
At this time, the Chu army tightly besieged the King of Han in Rongyang. Han Xin's envoy arrived. The King of Han opened the letter and read it. He was furious and cursed: I am besieged here. I have been waiting for you to help me all night. You actually want to make yourself king!
Zhang Liang and Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's feet from behind, then leaned into his ear and said: The Han army is in an unfavorable situation, how can we prevent Han Xin from proclaiming himself king?
It is better to take this opportunity to make him king, treat him well, and let him guard Qi by himself.
Otherwise, rebellion may occur.
The King of Han also understood and cursed again: If a man has conquered the princes, he should imitate the king. Why should he be an acting king?
So Zhang Liang was sent to make Han Xin king of Qi, and mobilized his troops to attack the Chu army.
Chu State had lost its general Long Qie. King Xiang was frightened and sent his founder Wu She to persuade Qi King Han Xin: "Why don't you rebel against the King of Han and join Chu State?"
The King of Chu had an old friendship with his master.
Moreover, the King of Han was very untrustworthy. He fell into the hands of King Xiang several times, but as soon as he escaped, he broke the covenant and attacked King Xiang. He was unapproachable and untrustworthy to this extent.
Now although Shishi thinks he has a strong friendship with the King of Han, he will eventually be captured by him.
The reason why Shiba can be postponed until today is because King Xiang is still here.
Once King Xiang is destroyed, it will be your turn to deal with him.
Why not unite with the Chu State and become the king of Qi, one of the three equal parts of the world?
If you let this opportunity go now, you will definitely join the King of Han and attack the Chu State. As a smart man, is this how it turns out?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
信谢曰： 臣得事项王数年，官不过郎中，位不过执戟，言不听，画策不用，故背楚归汉。
汉王授我上将军印、数万之众，解衣衣我，推食食我，言听计用，吾得至于此。
夫人深亲信我，背之不祥。
幸为信谢项王。
武涉已去，蒯通知天下权在于信，深说以三分天下，鼎足而王。
语在《通传》。
信不忍背汉，又自以功大，汉王不夺我齐，遂不听。
汉王之败固陵，用张良计，征信将兵会陔下。
项羽死，高祖袭夺信军，徙信为楚王，都不邳。
信至国，召所从食漂母，赐千金。
及下乡亭长，钱百，曰： 公，小人，为德不竟。
召辱己少年令出跨下者，以为中尉，告诸将相曰： 此壮士也。
方辱我时，宁不能死？
死之无名，故忍而就此。
项王亡将钟离目末家在伊庐，素与信善。
项王败，目末亡归信。
汉怨目末，闻在楚，诏楚捕之。
信初之国，行县邑，陈兵出入。
有变告信欲反，书闻，上患之。
用陈平谋，伪游于云梦者，实欲袭信，信弗知。
高祖且至楚，信欲发兵，自度无罪；欲谒上，恐见禽。
人或说信曰： 斩目末谒上，上必喜，亡患。
信见目末计事，目末曰： 汉所以不击取楚，以目末在。
公若欲捕我处媚汉，吾今死，公随手亡矣。
乃骂信曰： 公非长者！
卒自刭。
信持其首谒于陈。高祖令武士缚信，载后车。
信曰： 果若人言， 狡兔死，良狗亨 。
translation: 
Han Xin declined and said: I had the opportunity to serve King Xiang for many years, but my official position was just that of a doctor, and my position was that of a guard holding a halberd. I refused to listen to my words and did not use the strategies I offered, so I turned my back on Chu and joined Han.
The King of Han awarded me the seal of general and allowed me to command tens of thousands of troops. He took off his own clothes and gave me clothes to wear, gave me his own food to eat, listened to my opinions and adopted my strategies, so that I can reach my current status.
If someone sincerely gets close to and trusts me, if I betray them, there will be no good results.
I hope you can say goodbye to King Xiang on my behalf, Han Xin.
After Wu She left, Kuai Tong knew that the key to the final outcome of the world lay in Han Xin, and further persuaded Han Xin with the view that three parts of the world would make him the king.
His words are recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Han Xin couldn't bear to betray the King of Han, and he believed that he had made great contributions and the King of Han would not seize his Qi State, so he refused to listen to Kuai Tong.
The King of Han was defeated in Guling and adopted Zhang Liang's strategy, recruiting Han Xin to lead his troops to join forces at the foot of the country.
After Xiang Yu's death, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty used a surprise attack to seize Han Xin's military power, changed the title of King Han Xin of Qi to King of Chu, and made Xiapi his capital.
When Han Xin arrived in Chudu, he summoned the floating mother who had given him food in the past and gave her a thousand gold coins.
He went to the head of the Xiangxiang Pavilion and presented him with a hundred coins and said: You are a villain, and the good deeds you do have a beginning and an end.
He also summoned the young man who had insulted him by asking him to crawl under his crotch, and appointed him as the lieutenant of Chu State. Han Xin said to the generals: This is a strong man.
Can't I kill him when he insults me?
But there was no reason to kill him, so I endured it, and that's how we achieved today's achievements.
King Xiang's fugitive general Zhong Limei lived in Yilu and had always been friendly with Han Xin.
After King Xiang died, he fled back to Han Xin.
The king of Han resented Zhong Limei. When he heard that he was in Chu, he ordered Chu to arrest him.
When Han Xin first arrived in Chu State, he patrolled various counties and cities and sent troops to guard his entry and exit.
Someone wrote a letter to report that Han Xin, the king of Chu, was planning to rebel. Seeing the letter of accusation, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was a little worried.
He adopted Chen Ping's strategy and visited Yunmengze in name, but actually wanted to attack Han Xin, but Han Xin didn't know it.
When Emperor Gaozu was about to arrive in Chu, Han Xin wanted to rebel, but he thought he was not guilty; he wanted to see the emperor, but he was worried about being captured.
Someone advised Han Xin: If you kill Zhong Limei and go to the emperor, the emperor will be very happy and there will be no doubts.
Han Xin went to see Zhong Limei to discuss the matter. Zhong Limei said: The king of Han did not attack Chu because I am here with you.
If you want to capture me to please the King of Han, if I die, you will die too.
So he scolded Han Xin: You are not a loyal and honest person!
Finally committed suicide.
Han Xin took Zhong Limei's head and went to Chen County to meet Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty ordered the warriors to tie Han Xin up and put him in a car behind him.
Han Xin said: As people say, when the cunning rabbit dies, the fine hunting dog will be cooked and killed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
上曰： 人告公反。
遂械信。
至雒阳，赦以为淮阴侯。
信知汉王畏恶其能，称疾不朝从。
由此日怨望，居常鞅鞅，羞与绛、灌等列。
尝过樊将军哙。哙趋拜送迎，言称臣，曰： 大王乃肯临臣。
信出门，笑曰： 生乃与哙等为伍！
上尝从容与信言诸将能各有差。上问曰： 如我，能将几何？
信曰： 陛下不过能将十万。
上曰： 如公何如？
曰： 如臣，多多益办耳。
上笑曰： 多多益办，何为为我禽？
信曰： 陛下不能将兵，而善将将，此乃信之为陛下禽也。
且陛下所谓天授，非人力也。
后陈豨为代相监边，辞信，信挈其手，与步于庭数匝，仰天而叹曰： 子可与言乎？
吾欲与子有言。
豨因曰： 唯将军命。
信曰： 公之所居，天下精兵处也；而公，陛下之信幸臣也。
人言公反，陛下必不信；再至，陛下乃疑；三至，必怒而自将。
吾为公从中起，天下可图也。
陈豨素知其能，信之，曰： 谨奉教！
汉十年，豨果反，高帝自将而往，信称病不从。
阴使人之豨所，而与家臣谋，夜诈赦诸官徒奴，欲发兵袭吕后、太子。
部署已定，待豨报。
其舍人得罪信，信囚，欲杀之。
舍人弟上书变告信欲反状于吕后。
吕后欲召，恐其党不就，乃与萧相国谋，诈令人从帝所来，称豨已破，群臣皆贺。
相国给信曰： 虽病，强入贺。
信入，吕后使武士缚信，斩之长乐钟室。
信方斩，曰： 吾不用蒯通计，反为女子所诈，岂非天哉！
遂夷信三族。
高祖已破豨归，至，闻信死，且喜且哀之，问曰： 信死亦何言？
吕后道其语。
translation: 
The emperor said: Someone has accused you of treason.
Then Han Xin was put on a torture device.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he pardoned Han Xin's sins and made him Marquis of Huaiyin.
Han Xin knew that the King of Han was afraid and jealous of his talents, so he pretended to be ill and refused to go to court or travel with his entourage.
He often harbors resentment at home and is ashamed to be on the same level as Jianghou and Guanying.
I once went to visit General Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai greeted him with the courtesy of walking on foot and called him my minister, saying: Your Majesty is actually willing to visit my home.
After Han Xin went out, he smiled and said: In this life, I am in the same position as Fan Kuai and others!
The emperor once talked with Han Xin about the talents of the generals in their spare time. The emperor asked: How many troops can I lead?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty can only bring one hundred thousand.
The emperor asked: What about people like you?
Han Xin said: Like me, the more the better.
The emperor smiled and said: The more the better, why did I catch you?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty is not good at leading troops, but he is good at controlling generals. This is why I was captured by Your Majesty.
Besides, your Majesty's power is given by God. It is not something that ordinary human beings can achieve.
Later, Chen Xi was appointed as Acting Prime Minister to supervise the border soldiers and bid farewell to Han Xin. Han Xin took Chen Xi's hand and walked back and forth with him in the courtyard several times. He looked up to the sky and sighed and said, "Can I talk to you if I have something to say?"
There's something I want to talk to you about.
Chen Xi said: "Everything must be obeyed by the general!"
Han Xin said: The area under your jurisdiction is where the best soldiers from all over the world gather, and you are His Majesty's trusted and favorite minister.
If someone says that you are rebelling, His Majesty will not believe it; if such words are heard again, His Majesty will become suspicious; if someone says this for the third time, Your Majesty will be furious and personally lead troops to attack.
If I raise troops from the capital to support you, the world will be able to plot your plans.
Chen Xi has always understood Han Xin's talents, believed in him, and said: I would like to follow your advice!
In the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled. Emperor Gao personally led troops to attack him, but Han Xin pretended to be ill and did not follow him.
Secretly sent someone to Chen Xi's residence. Han Xin planned with his retainers and pretended to pass Shao's order at night to pardon the criminals and slaves in various government offices and prepare to send troops to attack Empress Lu and the prince.
The arrangements are in place, waiting for Chen Xi's report.
One of his retainers offended Han Xin, and Han Xin imprisoned him and prepared to kill him.
The retainer's brother wrote a letter to Empress Lu reporting Han Xin's preparations for rebellion.
Empress Lu wanted to summon Han Xin, but she was afraid that he would not submit, so she discussed with Xiao Xiangguo and sent someone pretending to be from the emperor, saying that Chen Zhu was dead and all the ministers were going to congratulate him.
Xiangguo deceived Han Xin and said: Although you are sick, you should go to the palace to congratulate him.
As soon as Han Xin entered the palace, Empress Lu asked the warriors to tie Han Xin up and behead him in the clock room of Changle Palace.
When Han Xin was beheaded, he said: I did not adopt Kuai Tong's strategy, but was deceived by a woman. Isn't this God's will?
So the three tribes of Han and Xin were killed.
Emperor Gaozu returned from suppressing Chen Xi's rebellion and arrived in the capital. When he heard that Han Xin was dead, he was happy and pitiful, and asked: What did Han Xin say before he died?
Empress Lu repeated what Han Xin said.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高祖曰： 此齐辩士蒯通也。
召欲亨之。
通至自说，释弗诛。
语在《通传》。
彭越字仲，昌邑人也。
常渔巨野泽中，为盗。
陈胜起，或谓越曰： 豪桀相立畔秦，仲可效之。
越曰： 两龙方斗，且待之。
居岁余，泽间少年相聚百余人，往从越， 请仲为长 ，越谢不愿也。
少年强请，乃许。
与期旦日日出时，后会者斩。
旦日日出，十余人后，后者至日中。
于是越谢曰： 臣老，诸君强以为长。
今期而多后，不可尽诛，诛最后者一人。
令校长斩之。
皆笑曰： 何至是！
请后不敢。
于是越乃引一人斩之，设坛祭，令徒属。
徒属皆惊，畏越，不敢仰视。
乃行略也，收诸侯散卒，得千余人。
沛公之从砀北击昌邑，越助之。
昌邑未下，沛公引兵西。
越亦将其众居巨野泽中，收魏败散卒。
项籍入关，王诸侯，还归，越众万余人无所属。
齐王田荣叛项王，汉乃使人赐越将军印，使下济阴以击楚。
楚令萧公角将兵击越，越大破楚军。
汉二年春，与魏豹及诸侯东击楚，越将其兵三万余人，归汉外黄。
汉王曰： 彭将军收魏地，得十余城，欲急立魏后。
今西魏王豹，魏咎从弟，真魏也。
乃拜越为魏相国，擅将兵，略定梁地。
汉王之败彭城解而西也，越皆亡其所下城，独将其兵北居河上。
汉三年，越常往来为汉游兵击楚，绝其粮于梁地。
项王与汉王相距荥阳，越攻下睢阳、外黄十七城。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu said: This person is Kuai Tong, the lobbyist of Qi State.
Summon Kuai Tong to cook him to death.
After Kuai Tong arrived, he explained himself and was pardoned without being killed.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
Peng Yue, courtesy name Zhong, was born in Changyi County.
He often fished in Ju Ye Ze and later became a bandit.
When Chen Sheng was revolting, someone said to Peng Yue: The heroes in the world are rushing to set up their own banner and rebel against the Qin Dynasty. You, Peng Zhong, can do the same as them.
Peng Yue said: Two dragons have just fought. Let's take a look.
More than a year later, more than a hundred young people in Junye Zezhong gathered to follow Peng Yue and said, "I ask you to be the leader." Peng Yue declined and was unwilling to do it.
The young people insisted on their request, and Peng Yue agreed.
Make an agreement with everyone to gather when the sun rises tomorrow, and those who are late will be beheaded.
When the sun came up the next day, more than ten people had not arrived, and the last person did not come until noon.
So Peng Yue said apologetically: I am old, and you force me to be the leader.
Today, many people have not arrived at the appointed time. We cannot kill them all, but only the last one to arrive.
Order the principal to kill the man.
Everyone laughed and said: Why are you so harsh!
Just don’t dare to disobey the order in the future.
At this time, Peng Yue killed the last person who arrived, set up an earthen altar, sacrificed his head with his head, and issued orders to his subordinates.
The subordinates were all frightened and afraid of Peng Yue, and did not dare to look up at him.
So he set out to capture the territory and collected the deserted soldiers from the princes' armies, gaining more than a thousand people.
Peigong attacked Changyi from Ci County to the north, and Peng Yue came to assist him.
Changyi was not captured, so Pei Gong led his troops to the west.
Peng Yue also led his troops to stay in Juyeze to collect the scattered soldiers of Wei Che's retreat.
Xiang Yu entered Guanzhong, enfeoffed various princes as queens, and returned home. More than 10,000 Peng Yue's troops were left without any one to belong to.
King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed King Xiang, so the King of Han sent someone to give General Peng Yue a seal, asking him to go south from Jiyin to attack Chu.
The Chu State ordered Xiao Gongjiao to lead his troops to attack Peng Yue, and Peng Yue defeated the Chu army.
In the spring of the second year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han, King Wei Bao and the princes went east to attack Chu. Peng Yue led more than 30,000 soldiers to join the King of Han in Waihuang.
The King of Han said: General Peng captured the land of Wei and obtained more than ten cities. He wanted to immediately support the descendants of Wei.
The current Western Wei King Wei Bao is the cousin of Wei King Wei Jiu and a true descendant of the Wei Kingdom.
He appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei State, responsible for military power and pacifying the Liang Dynasty.
The King of Han was defeated in Pengcheng, and his army retreated westward. Peng Yue also lost the cities he occupied, and led his troops alone to the north and stayed along the Yellow River.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue often traveled as a guerrilla force of the Mo army, attacked the Chu army, and cut off the Chu army's food and grass in Liang.
King Xiang and King Han were in a stalemate in Rongyang, and Peng Yue captured seventeen cities including Suiyang and Waihuang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
项王闻之，乃使曹咎守成皋，自东收越所下城邑，皆复为楚。
越将其兵北走穀城。
项王南走阳夏，越复下昌邑旁二十余城，得粟十余万斛，以给汉食。
汉王败，使使召越并力击楚，越曰： 魏地初定，尚畏楚，未可去。
汉王追楚，为项籍所败固陵。
乃谓留侯曰： 诸侯兵不从，为之奈何？
留侯曰： 彭越本定梁地，功多，始君王以魏豹故，拜越为相国。
今豹死亡后，且越亦欲王，而君王不蚤定。
今取睢阳以北至穀城，皆许以王彭越。
又言所以许韩信。
语在《高纪》。
于是汉王发使使越，如留侯策。
使者至，越乃引兵会垓下。
项籍死，立越为梁王，都定陶。
六年，朝陈。
九年、十年，皆来朝长安。
陈豨反代地，高帝自往击之。至邯郸，征兵梁。
梁王称病，使使将兵诣邯郸。
高帝怒，使人让梁王。
梁王恐，欲自往谢。
其将扈辄曰： 王始不往，见让而往，往即为禽，不如遂发兵反。
梁王不听，称病。
梁太仆有罪，亡走汉，告梁王与扈辄谋反。
于是上使使掩捕梁王，囚之雒阳。
有司治反形已具，请论如法。
上赦以为庶人，徙蜀青衣。
西至郑，逢吕后从长安东，欲之雒阳，道见越。
越为吕后泣涕，自言亡罪，愿处故昌邑。
吕后许诺，诏与俱东。
至雒阳，吕后言上曰： 彭越壮士也，今徙之蜀，此自遗患，不如遂诛之。
妾谨与俱来。
于是吕后令其舍人告越复谋反。
translation: 
When King Xiang heard the news, he sent Cao Jiu to garrison Chenggao, and he went eastward to recover the cities occupied by Pengyue. These cities were all returned to the Chu State.
Peng Yue led his troops to retreat north to Gucheng.
King Xiang retreated south to Yangxia, and Peng Yue captured more than 20 cities near Changyi and obtained more than 100,000 hu of grain to supply the King of Han with military provisions.
The king of Han lost the battle and summoned Peng Yue, asking him to join forces to attack the Chu army. Peng Yue said: Wei Di had just been pacified not long ago, but he was still afraid of the Chu army's attack and could not go.
The king of Han pursued the Chu army and was defeated by Xiang Yu at Guling.
Then he said to Zhang Liang, the remaining lord, "What should I do if the armies of the princes do not obey the deployment?"
Liu Hou said: Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region and made great contributions. The king originally appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei because of Wei Bao.
Now Wei Bao is dead and has no descendants, and Peng Yue also wants to be king, but the king decided not long ago to make him king.
Now if he captures the area north of Suiyang up to Gucheng, he will use it to make him king.
He also talked about the reasons why Han Xin was banned in the past.
This incident is recorded in "Gao Ji".
At that time, the king of Han sent envoys to Pengyue to follow Liu Hou's plan.
As soon as the envoy arrived, Peng Yue led his troops to join Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu died, he granted Pengyue the title of King of Liang and established his capital in Dingtao.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue went to Chen County to meet Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty.
In the ninth and tenth years, they all came to Chang'an to see him.
Su Peng rebelled in the cutting area, so he chose Hutong to go to Handan to fight against him personally. He then went to Handan to recruit troops from the King of Liang.
The king of Liang claimed to be ill and sent his generals to Handan.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was angry and sent someone to blame King Liang.
King Liang was afraid and wanted to go to plead guilty in person.
His general Hu Zou said: Your Majesty did not go at first, and only went after being scolded. If you go there you will be captured, so why not send troops there?
King Liang refused to listen and still said that he was ill.
The servant of the King of Liang committed a crime and fled to Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty to report the King of Liang and Hu Zui for their rebellion.
So Emperor Mogao sent envoys to make a surprise attack and captured King Liang, imprisoning him in Luoyang.
After review by the officials in charge, it is deemed that the crime has constituted treason. Please judge according to law.
The emperor pardoned him, demoted him to civilian status, and exiled him to Qingyi County, Shu County.
He escorted him westward to Zhengdi, where he met Empress Lu who was coming from Chang'an to the east. She was going to Wuchang, but encountered a chasm on the way.
Qi Yue cried to Dan Hou and told him that he was innocent and hoped to be exiled to his hometown Changyi.
Queen Lu agreed and ordered him to tie it up together.
When they arrived in Luoyang, Empress Lu told the emperor: Peng Yue is a strong man. If he is exiled to Shu, he will bring trouble to himself. It is better to kill him now.
I asked him to come with me.
At this time, Empress Lu asked Peng Yue's retainers to report him for another rebellion.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
廷尉奏请，遂夷越宗族。
黥布，六人也，姓英氏。
少时客相之，当刑而王。
及壮，坐法黥，布欣然笑曰： 人相我当刑而王，几是乎？
人有闻者，共戏笑之。
布以论输骊山，骊山之徒数十万人，布皆与其徒长豪桀交通，乃率其曹耦，亡之江中为群盗。
陈胜之起也，布乃见番君，其众数千人。
番君以女妻之。
章邯之灭陈胜，破吕臣军，布引兵北击秦左右校，破之青波，引兵而东。
闻项梁定会稽，西度淮，布以兵属梁。
梁西击景驹、秦嘉等，布常冠军。
项梁闻陈涉死，立楚怀王，以布为当阳君。
项梁败死，怀王与布及诸侯将皆聚彭城。
当是时，秦急围赵，赵数使人请救怀王。
怀王使宋义为上将军，项籍与布皆属之，北救赵。
及籍杀宋义河上，自立为上将军，使布先涉河，击秦军，数有利。
籍乃悉引兵从之，遂破秦军，降章邯等。
楚兵常胜，功冠诸侯安，诸侯兵皆服属楚者，以布数以少败众也。
项籍之引兵西至新安，又使布等夜击坑章邯秦卒二十余万人。
至关，不得入，又使布等先从间道破关下军，遂得入。
至感阳，布为前锋。
项王封诸将，立布为九江王，都六。
尊怀王为义帝，徙都长沙，乃阴令布击之。
布使将追杀之郴。
齐王田荣叛楚，项王往击齐，征兵九江，布称病不往，遣将将数千人行。
汉之败楚彭城，布又称病不佐楚。项王由此怨布，数使使者谯让召布，布愈恐，不敢往。
项王方北忧齐、赵，西患汉，所与者独布，又多其材，欲亲用之，以故未击。
汉王与楚大战彭城，不利，出梁地，至虞，谓左右曰： 如彼等者，无足与计天下事者。
translation: 
After the emperor was informed by Tingwei, Peng Yue and his clan were killed.
Ting Bu, a native of Liu County, originally had a surname of Ying.
When he was young, a guest told him that he could become king after being tortured.
When he reached his prime, he broke the law and was punished by Tao Bu. Tao Bu smiled happily and said, "Someone told me that after being punished, I would become king. Isn't that what it is?"
Everyone who heard this laughed at him.
Tingbu was sent to Lishan for hard labor for committing a crime. There were hundreds of thousands of prisoners in Lishan. Tinghu had contacts with the leaders and heroes among the prisoners, and finally led this group of people to escape to the Yangtze River and became a group of bandits.
When Chen Sheng raised his troops, Qing Bu went to meet Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County. At that time, Jing Bu had thousands of troops.
The county magistrate married his daughter to him.
Zhang Han destroyed Chen Sheng and defeated Lu Chen's army. Yingbu led his troops north to attack the troops of the left and right captains of the Qin army. He defeated them at Qingbo and led his troops to advance.
Yingbu heard that Xiang Liang had pacified Kuaiji, so he crossed the Huai River to the west and surrendered his troops to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang attacked Jingju, Qinjia and other places to the west, and Yingbu's army was always the bravest.
After Xiang Liang knew for sure that Chen She was dead, he supported King Huai of Chu and named him Dangyang Lord with a tattoo.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in battle. King Huai of Chu, Ying Bu and other princes and generals gathered in Pengcheng.
At this time, the Qin army stepped up the siege of Tangguo, and Tangguo sent people to request King Huai of Chu for rescue many times.
King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as the general, and Xiang Yu and Ying Bu were subordinate to him to go north to rescue the country.
Xiang Ji killed Song Yi on the bank of the Zhang River and established himself as general. He sent Yingbu to cross the Zhang River first and attack the Qin army, winning many times.
Xiang Ji led all his troops across the river and followed Ying Bu, defeating the Qin army and forcing Zhang Han and others to surrender.
The Chu army often won battles and made the greatest contributions among the princes. The reason why the armies of the princes all obeyed and subordinated to the Chu army was because Yingbu repeatedly defeated the larger number with a smaller number.
Xiang Ji led his army westward to Xin'an, and sent Yingbu and others to attack and bury alive Zhang Han's Qin soldiers of more than 200,000 men at night.
When they arrived at Hangu Pass, they were unable to enter, so they sent Ying Bu and others to raid from a small road and defeat the troops guarding the pass before they were able to enter.
When he arrived in Xianyang, Yingbu served as the forward.
King Xiang conferred titles on various generals, and made Yingbu the King of Jiujiang, making six counties his capital.
King Xiang honored King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor and moved the capital to Changsha, but secretly asked King Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill the Righteous Emperor.
Yingbu sent generals to chase him to Chen County and kill him.
King Tian Rong of Qi rebelled against Chu. King Xiang went to attack Qi and fine-tuned his army to Jiujiang. Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang excused himself from illness and sent his generals with thousands of people to go.
The Han army defeated Chu in Pengcheng, and Yingbu refused to help Chu due to illness. King Xiang resented Yingbu and sent envoys many times to condemn and recruit Yingbu. Yingbu was even more frightened and did not dare to go.
King Xiang was worried about Qi and Tang in the north, and worried about Han in the west. The only one he attached to was Yingbu. He also respected Yingbu's talents and wanted to rely on him and use him, so he did not attack him.
The army of the King of Han fought fiercely with the Chu army in Pengcheng. The Han army was defeated and fled through Liang to Yu County. The King of Han said to his left and right: People like you are not worthy of discussing world affairs together.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
谒者随何进曰： 不审陛下所谓。
汉王曰： 孰能为我使淮南，使之发兵背楚，留项王于齐数月，我之取天下可以万全。
随何曰： 臣请使之。
乃与二十人俱使淮南。
至，太宰主之，三日不得见。
随何因说太宰曰： 王之不见何，必以楚为强，以汉为弱，此臣之所为使。
使何得见，言之而是邪，是大王所欲闻也；言之而非邪，使何等二十人伏斧质淮南市，以明背汉而与楚也。
太宰乃言之王，王见之。
随何曰： 汉王使使臣敬进书大王御者，窃怪大王与楚何亲也。
淮南王曰： 寡人北乡而臣事之。
随何曰； 大王与项王俱列为诸侯，北乡而臣事之，必以楚为强，可以托国也。
项王代齐，身负版筑，以为士卒先。
大王宜悉淮南之众，身自将，为楚军前锋，今乃发四千人以助楚。
夫北面而臣事人者，固若是乎？
夫汉王战于彭城，项王未出齐也，大王宜扫淮南之众，日夜会战彭城下。
今抚万人之众，无一人渡淮者，阴拱而观其孰胜。
夫托国于人者，固若是乎？
大王提空名以乡楚，而欲厚自托，臣窃为大王不取也。
然大王不背楚者，以汉为弱也。
夫楚兵虽强，天下负之以不义之名，以其背明约而杀义帝也。
然而楚王特以战胜自强。
汉王收诸侯，还守成皋、荥阳，下蜀、汉之粟，深沟壁垒，分卒守徼乘塞。
楚人还兵，间以梁地，深入敌国八九百里，欲战则不得，攻城则力不能，老弱转粮千里之外。
楚兵至荥阳、成皋，汉坚守而不动，进则不得攻，退则不能解，故楚兵不足罢也。
使楚兵胜汉，则诸侯自危惧而相救。
夫楚之强，适足以致天下之兵耳。
translation: 
The visitor who was in charge of conveying the message came forward and said, "I don't understand what your Majesty said."
The King of Han said: Who can send me an envoy to Huainan, let him raise an army to betray the Chu State, and detain King Xiang in Qi for a few months? Then I will be completely sure of conquering the world.
Sui He said: I request to be sent as an envoy to Huainan.
So he went as envoy to Huainan with twenty people.
After arriving, Dazai received them as a host and did not see King Huainan for three days.
Suihe took the opportunity to persuade Dazai: "Your Majesty, if you don't meet me, Suihe must think that Chu is strong and Han is weak, which is why I am sent as an envoy."
If I can see the King of Huainan, and what I say is correct, it will be exactly what the king wants to hear; if what I say is wrong, I will kill all twenty of my party in the city of Huainan to show that the king has abandoned Han and is friendly with Chu.
Dazai reported these words to the King of Huainan, and the King of Huainan received Sui He.
Sui He said: The King of Han sent me to write a respectful letter to the king's driver. I feel strange why the king and the state of Chu are so close.
King Huainan said: I serve him as a minister.
Sui He said: The king and King Xiang are among the princes, and he surrendered to him. He must have thought that the state of Chu was powerful and could entrust the country to him.
King Xiang attacked Qi State and took the lead in carrying the tools for building walls.
Your Majesty should dispatch all the troops from Huainan and lead them personally as the vanguard of the Chu army. But now you only send 4,000 troops to aid Chu.
As a minister who serves others, is this what he should be like?
The King of Han is fighting in Pengcheng, and King Xiang has not yet left Qi. The king should dispatch all the troops from Huainan and travel day and night to Pengcheng to join the battle.
The king now has tens of thousands of troops, but no one has crossed the Huai River. He wants to sit back and watch who can win.
Is this what a person who entrusts state affairs to others should be like?
The king pretends to be close to and dependent on Chu State, but wants to rely entirely on himself. I think it is undesirable for the king to do this.
However, the king did not betray Chu because he thought Han was weak.
Although Chu's army was powerful, it was considered unjust by the people of the world because it betrayed the alliance and killed the Righteous Emperor.
However, the king of Chu thought he was powerful because he could win battles.
The King of Han united the princes and returned to garrison Chenggao and Rongyang. He transported grain from Shu and Hanzhong counties, dug deep trenches, reinforced fortifications, and divided his troops to guard the border fortresses.
The Chu people transferred their troops back, separated by beams, and penetrated eight to nine hundred miles into the enemy's country. If they wanted to fight, they would not be able to succeed, and they would not have enough strength to attack the city. The old, weak and disabled soldiers had to transport food from thousands of miles away.
When the Chu army reached Rongyang and Chenggao, the Han army held fast and did not go out to fight. In this way, it could not attack if they advanced and could not escape if they retreated. Therefore, the Chu army was easily exhausted.
If the Chu army defeated the Han army, the princes in various places would be afraid and rescue the Han army because they felt that they were in danger.
The Chu State was powerful enough to attract all the troops in the world to deal with it.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
故楚不如汉，其势易见也。
今大王不与万全之汉，而自托于危亡之楚，臣窃为大王或之。
臣非以淮南之兵足以亡楚也。
夫大王发兵而背楚，项王必留；留数月，汉之取天下可以万全。
臣请与大王杖剑而归汉王，汉王必裂地而分大王，又况淮南，必大王有也。
故汉王敬使使臣进愚计，愿大王之留意也。 淮南王曰：请奉命。
阴许叛楚与汉，未敢泄。
楚使者在，方急责布发兵，随何直入曰： 九江王已归汉，楚何以得发兵！
布愕然。
楚使者起，何因说布曰： 事已构，独可遂杀楚使，毋使归，而疾走汉并力。
布曰： 如使者数。
因起兵而攻楚。
楚使项声、龙且攻淮南，项王留而攻下邑。
数月，龙且攻淮南，破布军。
布欲引兵走汉，恐项王击之，故间行与随何俱归汉。
至，汉王方踞床洗，而召布入见。
布大怒，悔来，欲自杀。
出就舍，张御食饮从官如汉王居，布又大喜过望。
于是乃使人之九江。
楚已使项伯收九江兵，尽杀布妻子。
布使者颇得故人幸臣，将众数千人归汉。
汉益分布兵而与俱北，收兵至成皋。
四年秋七月，立布为淮南王，与击项籍。
布使人之九江，得数县。
五年，布与刘贾入九江，诱大司马周殷，殷反楚。
遂举九江兵与汉击楚，破垓下。
项籍死，上置酒对众折随何曰： 腐儒！为天下安用腐儒哉！
随何跪曰： 夫陛下引兵攻彭城，楚王未去齐也，陛下发步卒五万人、骑五千，能以取淮南乎？
曰： 不能。
随何曰： 陛下使何与二十人使淮南，如陛下之意，是何之功贤于步卒数万、骑五千也。
然陛下谓何 腐儒 ， 为天下安用腐儒 ，何也？
上曰： 吾方图子之功。
translation: 
Therefore, Chu is inferior to Han. This situation is obvious.
Now that the king does not have good relations with Han, who is completely sure of victory, but instead relies on Chu who is in a critical position, I feel puzzled for the king.
I don't think Huainan's military strength is enough to destroy Chu.
If the king raises an army to rebel against Chu, King Xiang will definitely stay in Qi; if he stays for a few months, there will be no doubt that King Han will seize the world.
I request you and your Majesty to hold your sword and return to the King of Han. The King of Han will definitely cede the land and grant you the title of King. Moreover, Huainan will definitely belong to your Majesty.
Therefore, the King of Han specially sent me here to propose a stupid plan, hoping that the King would consider it carefully. King Huainan said: "I obey."
He secretly promised to betray Chu and join the Han, but he did not dare to leak it.
The Chu State's envoy was there and was eager to ask Yingbu to send troops. Sui He rushed in and said: The King of Jiujiang has returned to Han State, why should Chu State ask him to send troops?
Yingbu was shocked.
The Chu envoy stood up, and Sui He took advantage of the situation to persuade Ying Sermon: The matter has been done, we can only kill the Chu envoy, do not let him go back, and quickly return to Han to fight together.
Yingbu said: Follow the instructions of the messenger.
So he raised an army to attack the state of Chu.
Chu State sent Xiang Sheng and Long Qie to attack Huainan State, while King Xiang stayed to attack Xiayi.
A few months later, Long Qie attacked Huainan and defeated Yingbu's army.
Yingbu wanted to lead his troops to flee to Han, but he was afraid that King Xiang would intercept him, so he fled back to Han with Sui He through a small road.
When they arrived in the desert country, the king of Han was sitting on the bed washing his feet. He called Yingbu in to see him.
Yingbu was furious, regretted coming to Han, and wanted to commit suicide.
Yingbu came out and lived in a guest house. The curtains, food, and accompanying officials were the same as those of the King of Han Dynasty. Yingbu was unexpected and very happy.
So he sent people to Jiujiang.
The King of Chu had already sent Xiang Bo to recruit Jiujiang troops and killed Yingbu's wife and children.
Yingbu's envoy found many of Yingbu's old friends and close subordinates, and led many soldiers back to Han.
The king of Han allocated more soldiers to Yingbu and went north with him, recruiting troops along the way to Chenggao.
In the autumn and July of the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu was granted the title of King of Huainan and jointly attacked Xiang Yu.
Yingbu sent people to Jiujiang and secured several counties.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu and Liu Jia entered Jiujiang and lured the great Sima Zhou Yin to surrender. Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu.
He mobilized the Jiujiang troops to attack the Chu army together with the Han army, and defeated the Chu army in Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu's death, the emperor held a banquet and belittled Sui He in front of the ministers, saying that he was a pedantic nerd. There is no need for nerds to govern the world!
Sui He knelt down and said, "Your Majesty is leading troops to attack Pengcheng. The King of Chu has not yet left Qi. Your Majesty has mobilized 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry. Can you use them to capture Huainan?"
The emperor said: No.
Sui He said: Your Majesty sent me and 20 people as envoys to the Huainan Kingdom, and your Majesty's wish was fulfilled. This shows that my contribution is greater than the 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry.
However, Your Majesty said that I am a nerd, and there is no need for a nerd to govern the world. Why is this?
The emperor said: I am estimating your contribution.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乃以随何为护军中尉。
布遂剖符为淮南王，都六，九江、庐江、衡山、豫章郡皆属焉。
六年，朝陈。
七年，朝雒阳。
九年，朝长安。
十一年，高后诛淮阴侯，布因心恐。
夏，汉诛梁王彭越，盛其醢以遍赐诸侯。
至淮南，淮南王方猎，见醢，因大恐，阴令人部聚兵，候伺帝郡警急。
布有所幸姬病，就医。
医家与中大夫贲赫对门，赫乃厚馈遗，从姬饮医家。
姬侍王，从容语次，誉赫长者也。
王怒曰： 女安从知之？
具道，王疑与乱。
赫恐，称病。
王愈怒，欲捕赫。
赫上变事，乘传诣长字。
布使人追，不及。
赫至，上变。言 布谋反有端，可先未发诛也 。
上以其书语萧相国，萧相国曰： 布不宜有此，恐仇怨妄诬之。
请系赫，使人微验淮南王。
布见赫以罪亡上变，已疑其言国阴事，汉使又来，颇有所验，遂族赫家，发兵反。
反书闻，上乃赦赫，以为将军。
召诸侯问： 布反，为之奈何？
皆曰： 发兵坑竖子耳，何能为！
汝阴侯滕公以问其客薛公，薛公曰： 是固当反。
滕公曰： 上裂地而封之，疏爵而贵之，南面而立万乘之主，其反何也？
薛公曰： 前年杀彭越，往年杀韩信，三人皆同功一体之人也。
自疑祸及身，故反耳。
滕公言之上曰： 臣客故楚令尹薛公，其人有筹策，可问。
上乃见问薛公，对曰： 布反不足怪也。
translation: 
He was appointed as the lieutenant of the guard army.
Yingbu was named King of Huainan and established six counties as his capital. Jiujiang, Lujiang, Hengshan, and Yuzhang counties were all placed under Yingbu's control.
In the sixth year of Han Dynasty, Yingbu went to Chen County to meet the emperor.
In the year of Han Dynasty, I went to Luoyang to meet him.
In the ninth year of Han Dynasty, he went to Chang'an to meet with him.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Empress Gao executed the Marquis of Huaiyin, and Yingbu was filled with fear.
In summer, the king of Han killed Peng Yue, king of Liang, and gave his meat sauce to every prince.
When they arrived at the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan was hunting. When he saw the meat paste, he was greatly frightened and secretly sent people to gather troops to spy on the movements in neighboring counties.
Yingbu had a concubine who was ill and went to see a doctor.
The doctor's house was across from the doctor's house, so Benhe gave her very expensive gifts and had a banquet with his concubine at the doctor's house.
My concubine served the King of Huainan. During the chat, she praised Ben He as a loyal and mature man.
King Huainan was angry and said: Where did you know him?
The concubine explained the situation in detail. The King of Huainan suspected that she was having an affair with Ben He.
Ben He was afraid and said he was sick.
King Huainan became even more angry and wanted to capture Ben He.
Benhe wanted to report to Yingbu and take a post train to Chang'an.
Yingbu sent people to chase him, but he failed to catch up.
Benhe went to Chang'an and wrote a letter to report that Yingbu showed signs of rebellion and could kill him before the rebellion happened.
The emperor told Xiao Xiangguo about Ben He's petition, and Xiao Xiangguo said: Ying Bu should not have such a thing, I am afraid that someone who has hatred for him deliberately framed him.
Please imprison Ben He and send someone to secretly inspect King Huainan.
When Yingbu saw Benhe running away in fear of crime, he reported him to the court. He had already suspected that he had told some secrets of Huainan. However, the envoys of the Han Dynasty came again and proved it, so he killed Benhe's family and launched an army to rebel.
After the imperial court received reports of Yingbu's rebellion, the emperor pardoned Ben He and appointed him as a general.
The emperor summoned the princes and asked: Yingbu rebelled, what should be done to him?
The princes all said: If we send troops to bury this boy alive, what else can we do?
Teng Gong, the Marquis of Ruyin, asked his retainer Xue Gong what he thought of this matter. Xue Gong said: Yingbu should have rebelled.
Teng Gong analyzed: The emperor ceded territory and granted him titles to make him noble. He became the king of the south and became the monarch of a country of ten thousand chariots. What was the reason for his rebellion?
Duke Xue said: "In the past year, I killed Peng Yue and then killed Han Xin. These three people have equal merit and are of the same type."
He suspected that the disaster would involve him, so he rebelled.
Teng Gong reported these words to the emperor and said: My retainer is the former Chu State Commander Yin Xue Gong. If he has a plan for entering, you can ask him.
The emperor summoned Duke Xue to question him. Duke Xue replied: It is not surprising that Yingbu rebelled.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
使布出于上计，山东非汉之有也；出于中计，胜负之数未可知也；出于下计，陛下安枕而卧矣。
上曰： 何谓上计？
薛公对曰： 东取吴，西取楚，并齐取鲁，传檄燕、赵，固守其所，山东非汉之有也。
何谓中计？
东取吴，西取楚，并韩取魏，据敖仓之粟，塞成皋之险，胜败之数未可知也。
何谓下计？
东取吴，西取下蔡，归重于越，身归长沙，陛下字枕而卧，汉无事矣。
上曰： 是计将字出？ 薛公曰： 出下计 。
上曰： 胡为废上计而出下计？
薛公曰： 布故骊山之徒也，致万乘之主，此皆为身，不顾后为百姓万世虑者也，故出下计。
上曰： 善。 封薛公千户。
遂发兵自将东击布。
布之初反，谓其将曰： 上老矣，厌兵，必不能来。
使诸将，诸将独患淮阴、彭越，今已死，余不足畏。
故遂反。
果如薛公揣之，东击荆，荆王刘贾走死富陵。
尽劫其兵，度淮击楚。
楚发兵与战徐、僮间，为三军，欲以相救为奇。
或说楚将曰： 布善用兵，民素畏之。
且兵法，诸侯自战其地为散地。
今别为三，彼败吾一，余皆走，安能相救！
不听。
布果破其一军，二军散走。
遂西，与上兵遇蕲西，会篏。
布兵精甚，上乃壁庸城，望布军置陈如项籍军。
上恶之，与布相望见，隃谓布 何苦而反？
布曰： 欲为帝耳。
上怒骂之，遂战，破布军。
布走度淮，数止战，不利，与百余人走江南。
布旧与番君婚，故长沙哀王使人诱布，伪与俱亡走越，布信而随至番阳。
番阳人杀布兹乡，遂灭之。
translation: 
If Yingbu adopts the best strategy, the Shandong region will no longer be owned by the Han Dynasty; if he uses the middle strategy, victory or defeat will be unpredictable; if he adopts the lower strategy, his majesty can sit back and relax.
The emperor asked: What is the best policy?
Duke Xue replied: If you attack Wu State to the east, Chu State to the west, annex Qi State, seize the land of Lu, and send a document to Yan State and Zhao State to secure these places, Shandong area will no longer be owned by the Han Dynasty.
The emperor asked: What is Zhongce?
He replied: Attack Wu State from the east, Chu State from the west, annex South Korea, seize Wei State, occupy Aocang's grain, and blockade the main roads of Chenggao. It is difficult to predict whether we will win or lose.
The emperor asked: What is the next best option?
He replied: Go east to capture Wu State, go west to capture Cai Cai, hoard supplies to Yue, and live in Changsha. Your Majesty can sit back and relax, and the Han Dynasty will be safe.
The emperor asked, "What strategy will he adopt?" Duke Xue replied, "The next strategy will be adopted."
The emperor said: Why not adopt the best policy but adopt the worst policy?
Duke Xue said: Yingbu was originally a prisoner of Mount Li, and became the king of a great country. He did this all for his own sake, and did not think of the people or future generations, so he would adopt the worst policy. The emperor said: OK.
Grant Xue Gong a thousand properties.
So he sent troops and personally led the eastward attack on Yingbu.
When Yingbu began to rebel, he told his generals: The emperor is old and tired of war, so he will definitely not lead his troops in person.
He will send generals. Among the generals, I am only afraid of Huaiyin Hou Han Xin and Peng Yue. Now that they are dead, the rest are not worth fearing.
So they rebelled.
Sure enough, as Xue Gong analyzed, Yingbu attacked Jing State eastward, and Jing King Liu Mai escaped and died in Fuling.
Yingbu hijacked his troops and crossed the Huaihe River to attack Chu.
Chu State mobilized troops to fight with Yingbu between Xu County and Tong County. The Chu army was divided into three groups, trying to rescue each other and win by surprise.
Someone advised the generals of Chu State: Yingbu is good at using troops, and the people have always been afraid of him.
Moreover, the art of war says that when princes fight on their own land, they will easily escape.
Now the army is divided into three groups. If he defeats one of us, the rest will flee. How can we rescue each other?
Chu will not listen.
Yingbu really defeated one of them, and the other two disintegrated and ran away.
Yingbu advanced westward, met the emperor's army in the west of Qixian County, and fought in Zhenxiang.
Yingbu's army was very elite, so the emperor defended Yongcheng and saw Yingbu's army arrayed like Xiang Yu's army.
The emperor was disgusted by this. Seeing each other with Yingbu, he said to Yingbu from a distance: Why bother to rebel?
Yingbu said: I just want to be emperor.
The emperor scolded him angrily, so he fought and defeated Yingbu's army.
Yingbu's army was defeated and fled across the Huaihe River. They stopped and fought many times but always failed. Yingbu and more than a hundred people fled to the south of the Yangtze River.
Yingbu was originally married to Fanjun Wu Rui, so King Ai of Changsha deceived Yingbu and pretended to flee to South Vietnam with him. Yingbu believed him and followed him to Fanyang.
The Fanyang people killed Yingbu in Zixiang and finally destroyed Yingbu.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
封贲赫为列侯，将率封者六人。
卢绾，丰人也，与高祖同里。
绾亲与高祖太上皇相爱，及生男，高祖、绾同日生，里中持羊、酒贺两家。
及高祖、绾壮，学书，又相爱也。
里中嘉两家亲相爱，生子同日，壮又相爱，复贺羊、酒。
高祖为布衣时，有吏事避宅，绾常随上下。
及高祖初起沛，绾以客从，入汉为将军，常侍中。
从东击项籍，以太尉常从，出入卧内，衣被食饮赏赐，群臣莫敢望。
虽萧、曹等，特以事见礼，至其亲幸，莫及绾者。
封为长安侯。
长安，故咸阳也。
项籍死，使绾别将，与刘贾击临江王共尉，还，从击燕王臧荼，皆破平。
时诸侯非刘氏而王者七人。
上欲王绾，为群臣觖望。
及虏臧荼。乃下诏，诏诸将相列侯择群臣有功者以为燕王。
群臣知上欲王绾，皆曰： 太尉长安侯卢绾常从平定天下，功最多，可王。
上乃立绾为燕王。
诸侯得幸莫如燕王者。
绾立六年，以陈豨事见疑而败。
豨者，宛句人也，不知始所以得从。
及韩王信反入匈奴，上至平城还，豨以郎中封为列侯，以赵相国将监赵、代边，边兵皆属焉。
豨少时，常称慕魏公子，及将守边，招致宾客。
常告过赵，宾客随之者千余乘，邯郸官舍皆满。
豨所以待客，如布衣交，皆出客下。
赵相周昌乃求入见上，具言豨宾客盛，擅兵于外，恐有变。
translation: 
The emperor granted Benhe the title of marquis, and six other generals received the title.
Lu Wan, a native of Fengyi, was from the same hometown as Gaozu.
Lu Wan's father was friendly with Gaozu's father and had children at the same time. Gaozu and Lu Wan were born on the same day. The villagers brought sheep and wine to congratulate both families.
When Gaozu and Lu Wan grew up, they studied together and became friendly.
The villagers praised the two families for being friendly to each other. They gave birth to a son on the same day, and the son grew up to be friendly again. They once again congratulated the two families with sheep and wine.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, Lu Wan always followed him around because he broke the law and evaded hiding.
When Emperor Gaozu raised troops in Pei County, Lu Wan followed him as a guest, entered Hanzhong and was promoted to general, often accompanying him in the inner court.
Following Gaozu's campaign against Xiang Yu, he always stayed close to him as a Taiwei, entering and leaving Gaozu's bedroom, receiving food, clothing, and various rewards, which none of the ministers dared to compare with.
Even though people like Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were respected only because of their career needs, as for the favor they received, no one could compare to Lu Wan.
Lu Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an.
Chang'an is the original Xianyang.
After Xiang Ji died, Lu Wan was asked to lead another army and attack Linjiang King Gongwei together with Liu Mai. After returning, he followed Emperor Gaozu to attack Zang Tu, King of Yan, and defeated the enemy and pacified those places.
At that time, there were seven princes who were not named Liu and were crowned kings.
The emperor wanted to make Lu Wan king, but the officials were dissatisfied and complained.
When Zang Tu was captured, he issued a letter from Shao and ordered the ministers and princes to choose the meritorious minister among the ministers to be crowned King of Yan.
The officials knew that the emperor wanted to make Lu Wan a king, and they all said: Lu Wan, the Taiwei Marquis of Chang'an, who often followed the emperor to bring peace to the world, and who made the most contributions, can be made king.
The emperor appointed Lu Wan as King of Yan.
Among the princes and kings, no one was as favored as King Yan.
Six years after Lu Wan was granted the title of King of Yan, Chen Xi collapsed due to suspicion of his rebellion.
Chen Xi was from Wanju County. He didn't know why he followed the King of Han in the first place.
When King Xin of Han rebelled against the Han and entered the Huns, and the emperor came back from Pingcheng, Chen Xi was granted the title of Marquis by the doctor, and as Zhao Xiangguo, he commanded and supervised the troops of Tangguo and Daiguo, and all the border defense troops belonged to him.
When Chen Xi was young, he often praised and admired Wei Gongzi Xinlingjun. When he was leading troops to guard the border fortress, he widely solicited and adopted guests.
When he returned to his hometown on vacation, he passed through the state of Zhao. There were more than a thousand cars with his guests, and the guesthouse of the Handan government was full.
Chen Xi treated his guests with the same etiquette as when interacting with civilians, always treating others with humility.
Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao State, requested to go to the capital to see the emperor. He explained in detail that Chen Xi had many guests and had many troops outside, so there was a fear that something might happen.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
上令人复案豨客民代者诸为不法事，多连引豨。
豨恐，阴令客通使王黄、曼丘臣所。
汉十年秋，太上皇崩，上因是召豨。豨称病，遂与王黄等反，自立为代王，劫略赵、代。
上闻，乃赦吏民为豨所诖误劫略者。
上自击豨，破之。语在《高纪》。
初，上如邯郸击豨，燕王绾亦击其东北。
豨使王黄求救匈奴，绾亦使其臣张胜使匈奴，言豨等军破。
胜至胡，故燕王臧荼子衍亡在胡，见胜曰： 公所以重于燕者，以习胡事也。
燕所以久存者，以诸侯数反，兵连不决也。
今公为燕欲急灭豨等，豨等已尽，次亦至燕，公等亦且为虏矣。
公何不令燕且缓豨，而与胡连和？
事宽，得长王燕，即有汉急，可以安国。
胜以为然，乃私令匈奴兵击燕。
绾疑胜与胡反，上书请族胜。
胜还报，具道所以为者。
绾寤，乃诈论他人，以脱胜家属，使得为匈奴间。
而阴使范齐之豨所，欲令久连兵毋决。
汉既斩豨，其裨将降，言燕王绾使范齐通计谋豨所。
上使使召绾，绾称病。
又使辟阳侯审食其、御史大夫赵尧往迎绾，因验问其左右。
绾愈恐，閟匿，谓其幸臣曰： 非刘氏而王者，独我与长沙耳。
往年汉族淮阴，诛彭越，皆吕后计。
今上病，属任吕后。
吕后妇人，专欲以事诛异姓王者及大功臣。
乃称病不行，其左右皆亡匿。
语颇泄，辟阳侯闻之，归具报，上益怒。
又得匈奴降者，言张胜亡在匈奴，为燕使。
于是上曰： 绾果反矣！
使樊哙击绾。
绾悉将其宫人家属，骑数千，居长城下候伺，幸上病愈，自入谢。
高祖崩，绾遂将其众亡入匈奴，匈奴以为东胡卢王。
为蛮夷所侵夺，常思复归。
居岁余，死胡中。
高后时，绾妻与其子亡降，会高后病，不能见，舍燕邸，为欲置酒见之。
高后竟崩，绾妻亦病死。
孝景帝时，绾孙它人以东胡王降，封为恶谷侯。
translation: 
The emperor sent people to investigate and interrogate various illegal activities of Chen Xi's guests who lived in Daidi, and many of them implicated Chen Xi.
Chen Zhu was frightened and secretly asked the guests to send envoys to Wang Huang and Manqiuchen's residence.
In the autumn of the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, the emperor went to the emperor. The emperor summoned Chen Xi because of this incident. Chen Xici said that he was ill, so he rebelled with Wang Huang and others, proclaimed himself the acting king, and plundered the land.
When the emperor found out, he pardoned the officials and people who were not implicated by Chen Xi and held him hostage.
The emperor personally attacked Chen Xi and eliminated Chen Zhu's rebels. The matter is in "Gaodi Ji".
At first, the emperor went to Handan to attack Chen Xi's rebels, and King Lu Wan of Yan also attacked his northeast.
Chen Xi sent Wang Huang to the Xiongnu to ask for help. King Lu Wan of Yan also sent his subordinate Zhang Sheng as an envoy to the Xiongnu to inform Chen Xi and others that their army had been defeated.
Zhang Sheng went to the Xiongnu. Zang Yan, the son of Zang Tu, the former king of Yan, fled to the Xiongnu. He visited Zhang Sheng and said: The reason why you are respected in Yan is that you are familiar with Xiongnu affairs.
The reason why the Yan State was able to survive for a long time was that the princes frequently rebelled and could not be stabilized by the use of troops for many years.
Now you want to quickly eliminate Chen Xi and others for the sake of the Yan State. After Chen Xi and others are destroyed, it will be the turn of the Yan State, and you will also be prisoners.
Why don't you let King Yan let Chen Xi go for the time being and unite with the Xiongnu?
There is room for things to happen and he can rule the Yan Kingdom for a long time. If there is an emergency of the Han Dynasty's conquest, he can rely on this background to protect the country.
Zhang Sheng thought that what he said was right, so he ordered the Huns to attack Yan without permission.
The king of Yan, Lu Wan, suspected that Zhang Sheng was friends with the Xiongnu and plotted rebellion, so he wrote a petition asking his clan to destroy Zhang Sheng.
Zhang Sheng came back and reported in detail the reasons for doing so.
When Lu Wan came to his senses, he deceitfully sentenced other people, exonerating Zhang Sheng and his family members, allowing them to become spies for the Huns.
He also secretly sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's residence, hoping to make the war against the imperial court continue for a long time.
The Han Dynasty beheaded Chen Xi, and his lieutenant surrendered, saying that King Lu Wan of Yan sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's station to inform him of his strategy.
The emperor sent an envoy to summon Lu Wan, but Lu Wan excused himself from illness.
The emperor also sent the Marquis of Piyang to examine Shiqi and the imperial censor Yao to meet Lu Wan, taking the opportunity to check with the people around King Yan.
Lu Wan became even more frightened, closed the door and hid, and said to his most trusted ministers: The only ones who are kings are not Liu, but the King of Changsha and I.
Last year, the imperial clan destroyed the Marquis of Huaiyin and killed Peng Yue. It was Empress Lu's plan.
Now that the emperor was ill, the power was entrusted to Empress Lu.
Empress Lu was a Taoist woman who wanted to find trouble and kill the king with a different surname and the great hero.
So he said he was sick and couldn't get up. His ministers fled into hiding.
Many of what he said were leaked. Marquis Piyang heard about it and returned to the capital to report to the emperor in detail, which made the emperor even more angry.
He also collected people who had surrendered from the Xiongnu and said that Zhang Sheng was living in exile in the Xiongnu and acting as an envoy to the Yan Kingdom.
So the emperor said: Lu Wan has really rebelled!
He sent Fan Sha to attack King Lu Wan of Yan.
Lu Wan, along with all his family members and thousands of cavalry, were stationed under the Great Wall to wait and watch, hoping that the emperor would recover and go to Beijing to plead guilty in person.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Lu Wan led his men to flee into the Huns, who made him King of East Hulu.
Lu Wan was bullied and plundered by the barbarians, and often thought of returning to the Han Dynasty.
More than a year later, he died in the Huns.
When he was the empress, Lu Wan's wife and son escaped from the Xiongnu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. When the empress became ill and could not be received, they were asked to live in Yan's mansion and planned to hold a banquet to invite them.
Empress Gao eventually passed away, and Lu Wan's wife also died of illness.
During the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Lu Wan's grandson Lu Taren surrendered to the Han Dynasty as King Shuhu and was granted the title of Marquis of Evil Valley.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
传至曾孙，有罪，国除。
吴芮，秦时番阳令也，甚得江湖间民心，号曰番君。
天下之初叛秦也，黥布归芮，芮妻之，因率越人举兵以应诸侯。
沛公攻南阳，乃遇芮之将梅鋗，与偕攻析、郦，降之。
及项羽相王，以芮率百越佐诸侯，从入关，故立芮为衡山王，都邾。
其将梅鋗功多，封十万户，为列侯。
项籍死，上以鋗有功，从入武关，故德芮，徙为长沙王，都临湘，一年薨，谥曰文王，子成王臣嗣。
薨，子哀王回嗣。
薨，子共王右嗣。
薨，子靖王差嗣。
孝文后七年薨，无子，国除。
初，文王芮，高祖贤之，制诏御史： 长沙王忠，其定著令。
至孝惠、高后时，封芮庶子二人为列侯，传国数世绝。
赞曰：昔高祖定天下，功臣异姓而王者八国。
张耳、吴芮、彭越、黥布、臧荼、卢绾与两韩信，皆徼一时之权变，以诈力成功，咸得裂土，南面称孤。
见疑强大，怀不自安，事穷势迫，卒谋叛逆，终于灭亡。
张耳以智全，至子亦失国。
唯吴芮之起，不失正道，故能传号五世，以无嗣绝，庆流支庶。
有以矣夫，著于甲令而称忠也！
translation: 
It was passed down to his great-grandson that the feudal state was abolished due to crime.
Wu Rui was the magistrate of Fanyang County during the Qin Dynasty. He was very popular among the people in the Jianghu area and was known as Fanjun.
The world began to rebel against the Qin Dynasty, Yingbu surrendered to Wu Rui, and Wu Rui married his daughter to him. So he led the Yue people to raise troops to respond to the anti-Qin struggles in various places.
Peigong attacked Nanyang County and encountered Wu Rui's general Mei Guo, so he and he attacked Xi County and Li County of Nanyang County. Both counties surrendered.
When Xiang Yu divided the princes among the princes, Wu Rui led the Baiyue soldiers to cooperate with the princes and followed them into Guanzhong, so he made Wu Rui the king of Hengshan and established Zhu as his capital.
His general Mei Guo had many merits and was granted the title of lord of 100,000 households.
After Xiang Yu's death, the emperor followed him into Wuguan because of his merits in the plum pot. So he was grateful to Wu Rui and changed his title to King of Changsha. He established his capital in Linxiang. He died a year later and was named King Wen. Zicheng Wang Wuchen succeeded to the throne.
When Wu Chen died, his son Ai Wang Hui succeeded to the throne.
Wu Hui died, and Wu You, the king of Zi Gong, succeeded to the throne.
Wu You died, and Wu Cha, the king of Zijing, succeeded to the throne.
Wu Chai died in the seventh year of Emperor Wen's reign without a son, and the feudal state was abolished.
At the beginning, King Wen Wu Rui, considered by Emperor Gaozu to be virtuous and loyal to the court, ordered the censor to say: The loyalty of the King of Changsha must be written in the decree.
At the time of Emperor Hui and Empress Gao, Wu Rui's two sons other than his legitimate son were granted the title of marquis. The title was passed down for several generations before being abolished.
Zan said: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, among the heroes who were not named Liu, there were eight countries who were crowned kings.
Zhang Er, Wu Rui, Peng Yue, Ting Bu, Zang Tu, Lu Wan and the two Han Xins were all able to adapt to the current situation, adapt to changes, and achieve success by virtue of cunning and strength. They all received fiefs, sat facing south, and called Gu the king.
Because they were powerful and were suspected by the court, they could not feel at ease. When things developed in the end, the situation was urgent and they were forced to plan a rebellion, and finally perished.
Zhang Er relied on his wisdom to save himself, and it was passed down to his son that he also lost his title.
Only Wu Rui did not violate the right path from the beginning, so he was able to pass the king's title to the fifth generation. However, the kingdom was abolished because there was no heir. There is a reason why his blessings were passed on to the descendants other than his legitimate son!
Written on important decrees issued by the imperial court to commend his loyalty!


