Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 3, 0, 11, 12, 17, 19, 19]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩信，淮阴人也。
家贫无行，不得推择为吏，又不能治生为商贾，常从人寄食。
其母死无以葬，乃行营高燥地，令傍可置万家者。
信从下乡南昌亭长食，亭长妻苦之，乃晨炊蓐食。
食时信往，不为具食。
信亦知其意，自绝去。
至城下钓，有一漂母哀之，饭信，意漂数十日。
信谓漂母曰： 吾必重报母。
母怒曰： 大丈夫不能自食，吾哀王孙而进食，岂望报乎！
淮阴少年又侮信曰： 虽长大，好带刀剑，怯耳。
众辱信曰： 能死，刺我；不能，出胯下。
于是信孰视，俯出跨下。
一市皆笑信，以为怯。
及项梁度淮，信乃杖剑从之，居戏下，无所知名。
梁败，又属项羽，为郎中。
信数以策干项羽，羽弗用。
汉王之入蜀，信亡楚归汉，未得知名，为连敖。
坐法当斩，其畴十三人皆已斩，至信，信乃仰视，适见滕公，曰： 上不欲就天下乎？
而斩壮士！
滕公奇其言，壮其貌，释弗斩。
与语，大说之，言于汉王。
汉王以为治粟都尉，上未奇之也。
数与萧何语，何奇之。
至南郑，诸将道亡者数十人。
信度何等已数言上，不我用，即亡。
何闻信亡，不及以闻，自追之。
人有言上曰： 丞相何亡。
上怒，如失左右手。
居一二日，何来谒。
上且怒且喜，骂何曰： 若亡，何也？
何曰： 臣非敢亡，追亡者耳。
translation: 
Han Xin was born in Huaiyin County.
The family is poor and has no good character. He cannot be elected to be an official, and he cannot do business to make a living. He often lives in other people's homes and eats nothing.
His mother passed away and was too poor to bury her, so he found a high, dry place with spacious surroundings as a cemetery so that tens of thousands of families could be placed next to the grave in the future.
Han Xin once went to the countryside to eat at the pavilion chief's house in Nanchang. The pavilion chief's wife hated him so much that she got up very early to prepare the meal and put it on the bed to eat.
When it was breakfast time, Han Xin went and no meal was prepared for him.
Han Xin understood her intention and left her, never to interact with her again.
Han Xin once went fishing in the city. An old woman was rinsing silk cotton wool. She took pity on him and gave him food. This continued for dozens of days until the rinsing was completed.
Han Xin said gratefully to his old mother: I will definitely repay you heavily in the future.
The old man was very angry after hearing this and said, "You are a man and can't support yourself. I gave you food out of pity for you, a young man. Do I want you to repay me?"
A young man in Huaiyin City bullied Han Xin and said: Although you are tall and like to wear swords, you are actually very timid.
He insulted Han Xin in public and said: If you are not afraid of death, stab me with a sword; if you are afraid of death, get under my crotch.
So Han Xin stared at the young man carefully, then bent down and crawled under his crotch.
People watching the excitement on the street laughed at Han Xin and thought he was cowardly.
When Xiang Liang led his army across the Huai River to the north, Han Xin took his sword and went to him, and became an unknown soldier under Xiang Liang.
After Xiang Liang failed, he returned to Xiang Yu, who made him a doctor.
Han Xin repeatedly offered advice to Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu did not adopt it.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and Han Xin escaped from the Chu army and joined the king of Han. At the beginning, he was still unknown and worked as a granary management clerk.
Later, he was sentenced to death for breaking the law. Thirteen of his accomplices were beheaded. When it was Han Xin's turn, Han Xin looked up and happened to see Teng Gong Xia Houying, so he asked: Doesn't the King of Han want to unify the world?
Why kill the strong man?
Teng Gong felt that Han Xin's words were unusual and he looked very powerful, so he did not kill him.
After talking to Han Xin, he was very happy and reported his situation to the King of Han.
The King of Han appointed Han Xin as the Commander-in-Chief of Su Su, but did not reuse him.
Han Xin talked with Xiao He many times, and Xiao He appreciated his talent very much.
When the Han army arrived at Nanzheng, dozens of generals escaped halfway.
Han Xin considered that Xiao He and others had recommended him to the King of Han several times, but he still could not be reused, so he ran away.
Xiao He heard that Han Xin had escaped. He had no time to report to the king of Han, so he went to chase him himself.
Someone reported to the King of Han: Prime Minister Xiao He has escaped.
The king of Han was furious, as if he had lost his left and right hands.
Two days later, Xiao He came to see the King of Han.
The King of Han was both angry and happy, and scolded Xiao He: "Why did you run away?"
Xiao He replied: How dare I run away? I am chasing those who run away.
summary:
Han Xin, born in Huaiyin, was poor and unable to become an official or engage in trade. He often relied on others for food. After his mother died, he buried her on a high, spacious site, hoping for future grandeur. He once ate at a pavilion chief's home, but the chief's wife resented him and prepared meals early, leaving none for him at breakfast. Han Xin understood and left. While fishing, an old woman rinsing silk fed him for dozens of days. Grateful, he promised to repay her, but she scolded him, saying she pitied him, not expecting repayment. A young man in Huaiyin insulted Han Xin, daring him to fight or crawl under his crotch. Han Xin stared, then crawled through, enduring public ridicule. Han Xin joined Xiang Liang's army as a soldier, then served Xiang Yu as a郎中, offering advice that was ignored. He later defected to Liu Bang, King of Han, as a仓管员. Sentenced to death for a crime, he appealed to Teng Gong Xia Houying, who spared him after a conversation. Liu Bang made him a治粟都尉 but didn't value him. Han Xin fled when not promoted, but Xiao He chased him back. Xiao He convinced Liu Bang to formally appoint Han Xin as a大将, with a ceremony. Liu Bang asked Han Xin for strategies. Han Xin analyzed Xiang Yu's weaknesses—his inability to delegate, stinginess with rewards, and cruelty—contrasting Liu Bang's potential to win hearts by appointing capable men, rewarding merit, and respecting the people's wishes. He predicted easy conquest of the Three Qin states. Liu Bang followed his plan, marching east through Chencang to pacify the region. Han Xin was later made King of Qi. After Xiang Yu's death, Liu Bang demoted him to King of Chu. Han Xin rewarded the old woman who fed him and the young man who humiliated him, making him a lieutenant. When Liu Bang suspected him of rebellion, Han Xin was captured and made Marquis of Huaiyin. He feigned illness, avoiding court. Later, he plotted with Chen Xi to rebel but was betrayed. Empress Lü and Xiao He tricked him into the palace, where he was executed, his clan exterminated. Before death, he regretted not following Kuai Tong's advice.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
遂进兵击魏。
魏盛兵蒲坂，塞临晋。
信乃益为疑兵，陈船欲度临晋，而伏兵从夏阳以木罂缶度军，袭安邑。
魏王豹惊，引兵迎信。
信遂虏豹，定河东，使人请权王： 愿益兵三万人，臣请以北举燕、赵，东击齐，南绝楚之粮道，西与大王会于荥阳。
汉王与兵三万人，遣张耳与俱，进击赵、代。
破代，禽夏说阏与。
信之下魏、代，汉辄使人收其精兵，诣荥阳以距楚。
信、耳以兵数万，欲东下井陉击赵。
赵王、成安君陈馀闻汉且袭之，聚兵井陉口，号称二十万。
广武君李左车说成安君曰： 闻汉将韩信涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说，新喋血阏与。
今乃辅以张耳，议欲以下赵，此乘胜而去国远斗，其锋不可当。
臣闻 千里馈粮，士有饥色；樵苏后爨，师不宿饱。 今井陉之道，车不得方轨，骑不得成列，行数百里，其势粮食必在后。
愿足下假臣奇兵三万人，从间路绝其辎重；足下深沟高垒勿与战。
彼前不得斗，退不得还，吾奇兵绝其后，野无所掠卤，不至十日，两将之头可致戏下。
愿君留意臣之计，必不为二子所禽矣。
成安君，儒者，常称义兵不用诈谋奇计，谓曰： 吾闻兵法 什则围之，倍则战。 今韩信兵号数万，其实不能，千里袭我，亦以罢矣。
今如此避弗击，后有大者，何以距之？
诸侯谓吾怯，而轻来伐我。
不听广武君策。
信使间人窥知其不用，还报，则大喜，乃敢引兵遂下。
translation: 
Then he marched to attack the grasshopper.
The king of Wei deployed heavy troops in Zhayuan and blocked Linjin Pass.
Hanzhi then set up additional suspects, deployed his boats, and pretended to cross the river from Zhuozhi. He also sent a concealed ambush force to cross the river from Xia Yang with wooden urns and basins of floating water to sneak attack Anyi.
King Wei Bao of Wei was greatly frightened and hurriedly led his troops to attack Zhengzhi. He captured Wei Bao and put Mi down.
After that, Han Xin sent someone to see the King of Han and said: I hope to increase the number of 30,000 troops. I request to take advantage of the victory and march north to conquer the two countries Yan and Zhao, attack Qi to the east, cut off Chu's grain routes to the south, and finally go west to join forces with the king in Rongyang.
The King of Han agreed to give Han Xin 30,000 more troops, and sent Tan Dan and Han Zhi to attack Zhao Er and Ji Er to the north.
He defeated the attacking army and captured Xia Yue alive in the hammer.
After Kongcao captured Chongxiao and Zhuyou, the King of Han sent people to call back his elite troops and marched to Rongyang to resist the Chu army.
Han Xin and Zhang Er led tens of thousands of troops and wanted to march eastward to capture Jingxing and attack Zhao.
King Chu and Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, heard that the Han army was about to attack Zhao, so they gathered a heavy army to guard Jingxingkou, claiming to have an army of 200,000.
Lord Guangwu Li Zuoche gave advice to Lord Chengan and said: I heard that the Han general Han Xin crossed the Xihe River, captured the king of Wei, and captured Xia Shuo alive. They had just fought a bloody battle to break up the alliance.
Now with Zhang Er as an assistant, he plans to attack Zhao. This is a battle far away from the country while taking advantage of the victory. The attack is unstoppable.
But I heard that when military rations are transported from thousands of miles away, the soldiers will look hungry; when firewood and grass are temporarily used for cooking, the army often cannot eat enough. Nowadays, the road in Jingxing is narrow and cannot pass two parallel chariots.
I hope you can lend me 30,000 elite troops for the time being to intercept their supplies of food and supplies from the small road. You must dig trenches deep, build forts high, and refuse to fight.
They can't engage in battle if they move forward, and can't go back if they retreat. I lead a surprise attack force to cut off their retreat, so that they can't plunder any food in the wild. In less than ten days, the heads of the two generals will be delivered to your tent.
I hope you will seriously consider my strategy, and I guarantee that you will not be captured by these two people.
Cheng'anjun is a nerd, and often claims that a just army does not use deceit and trickery. He said: I heard that in the art of war, if the force is ten times more than the enemy, you can surround them, and if you have more than twice the force, you can fight. Now Han Xin's army is said to be tens of thousands, but in fact it is not that many. They have traveled thousands of miles to attack us, and they are exhausted.
If we are unable to retreat from such an enemy now, how will we resist if we encounter a more powerful enemy in the future?
The princes will think that we are timid and attack us easily.
Therefore, he did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy.
Han Xin sent spies to find out that Chen Yu did not adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy and came back to report. Han Xin was overjoyed and dared to lead his army there.
summary:
In the second year of Han, Liu Bang conquered Wei and Henan, then attacked Pengcheng but was defeated. Han Xin later joined forces to defeat Chu troops. After Wei Bao rebelled, Han Xin, as左丞相, attacked Wei. He feigned a river crossing at Linjin while secretly crossing at Xiayang, capturing Wei Bao. Han Xin then requested 30,000 troops to conquer Yan, Zhao, and Qi. Liu Bang agreed, sending Zhang Er and others. Han Xin defeated Zhao at Jingxing, using a背水阵 (back-to-water formation) to inspire his troops to fight desperately. He captured King Zhao Xie and killed Chen Yu. Han Xin spared Li Zuoche, who advised against attacking Yan and Qi directly, suggesting instead to intimidate Yan into surrender and then approach Qi. Han Xin followed this, and Yan surrendered.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
项王闻之，乃使曹咎守成皋，自东收越所下城邑，皆复为楚。
越将其兵北走穀城。
项王南走阳夏，越复下昌邑旁二十余城，得粟十余万斛，以给汉食。
汉王败，使使召越并力击楚，越曰： 魏地初定，尚畏楚，未可去。
汉王追楚，为项籍所败固陵。
乃谓留侯曰： 诸侯兵不从，为之奈何？
留侯曰： 彭越本定梁地，功多，始君王以魏豹故，拜越为相国。
今豹死亡后，且越亦欲王，而君王不蚤定。
今取睢阳以北至穀城，皆许以王彭越。
又言所以许韩信。
语在《高纪》。
于是汉王发使使越，如留侯策。
使者至，越乃引兵会垓下。
项籍死，立越为梁王，都定陶。
六年，朝陈。
九年、十年，皆来朝长安。
陈豨反代地，高帝自往击之。至邯郸，征兵梁。
梁王称病，使使将兵诣邯郸。
高帝怒，使人让梁王。
梁王恐，欲自往谢。
其将扈辄曰： 王始不往，见让而往，往即为禽，不如遂发兵反。
梁王不听，称病。
梁太仆有罪，亡走汉，告梁王与扈辄谋反。
于是上使使掩捕梁王，囚之雒阳。
有司治反形已具，请论如法。
上赦以为庶人，徙蜀青衣。
西至郑，逢吕后从长安东，欲之雒阳，道见越。
越为吕后泣涕，自言亡罪，愿处故昌邑。
吕后许诺，诏与俱东。
至雒阳，吕后言上曰： 彭越壮士也，今徙之蜀，此自遗患，不如遂诛之。
妾谨与俱来。
于是吕后令其舍人告越复谋反。
translation: 
When King Xiang heard the news, he sent Cao Jiu to garrison Chenggao, and he went eastward to recover the cities occupied by Pengyue. These cities were all returned to the Chu State.
Peng Yue led his troops to retreat north to Gucheng.
King Xiang retreated south to Yangxia, and Peng Yue captured more than 20 cities near Changyi and obtained more than 100,000 hu of grain to supply the King of Han with military provisions.
The king of Han lost the battle and summoned Peng Yue, asking him to join forces to attack the Chu army. Peng Yue said: Wei Di had just been pacified not long ago, but he was still afraid of the Chu army's attack and could not go.
The king of Han pursued the Chu army and was defeated by Xiang Yu at Guling.
Then he said to Zhang Liang, the remaining lord, "What should I do if the armies of the princes do not obey the deployment?"
Liu Hou said: Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region and made great contributions. The king originally appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei because of Wei Bao.
Now Wei Bao is dead and has no descendants, and Peng Yue also wants to be king, but the king decided not long ago to make him king.
Now if he captures the area north of Suiyang up to Gucheng, he will use it to make him king.
He also talked about the reasons why Han Xin was banned in the past.
This incident is recorded in "Gao Ji".
At that time, the king of Han sent envoys to Pengyue to follow Liu Hou's plan.
As soon as the envoy arrived, Peng Yue led his troops to join Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu died, he granted Pengyue the title of King of Liang and established his capital in Dingtao.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue went to Chen County to meet Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty.
In the ninth and tenth years, they all came to Chang'an to see him.
Su Peng rebelled in the cutting area, so he chose Hutong to go to Handan to fight against him personally. He then went to Handan to recruit troops from the King of Liang.
The king of Liang claimed to be ill and sent his generals to Handan.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was angry and sent someone to blame King Liang.
King Liang was afraid and wanted to go to plead guilty in person.
His general Hu Zou said: Your Majesty did not go at first, and only went after being scolded. If you go there you will be captured, so why not send troops there?
King Liang refused to listen and still said that he was ill.
The servant of the King of Liang committed a crime and fled to Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty to report the King of Liang and Hu Zui for their rebellion.
So Emperor Mogao sent envoys to make a surprise attack and captured King Liang, imprisoning him in Luoyang.
After review by the officials in charge, it is deemed that the crime has constituted treason. Please judge according to law.
The emperor pardoned him, demoted him to civilian status, and exiled him to Qingyi County, Shu County.
He escorted him westward to Zhengdi, where he met Empress Lu who was coming from Chang'an to the east. She was going to Wuchang, but encountered a chasm on the way.
Qi Yue cried to Dan Hou and told him that he was innocent and hoped to be exiled to his hometown Changyi.
Queen Lu agreed and ordered him to tie it up together.
When they arrived in Luoyang, Empress Lu told the emperor: Peng Yue is a strong man. If he is exiled to Shu, he will bring trouble to himself. It is better to kill him now.
I asked him to come with me.
At this time, Empress Lu asked Peng Yue's retainers to report him for another rebellion.
summary:
Peng Yue, from Changyi, was a fisherman and bandit. He led a group of youths, enforcing strict discipline. He joined Liu Bang but later served Xiang Yu. After Xiang Yu's defeat, Liu Bang made him King of Liang. Accused of rebellion, he was captured, exiled, and killed by Empress Lü, his clan destroyed.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
廷尉奏请，遂夷越宗族。
黥布，六人也，姓英氏。
少时客相之，当刑而王。
及壮，坐法黥，布欣然笑曰： 人相我当刑而王，几是乎？
人有闻者，共戏笑之。
布以论输骊山，骊山之徒数十万人，布皆与其徒长豪桀交通，乃率其曹耦，亡之江中为群盗。
陈胜之起也，布乃见番君，其众数千人。
番君以女妻之。
章邯之灭陈胜，破吕臣军，布引兵北击秦左右校，破之青波，引兵而东。
闻项梁定会稽，西度淮，布以兵属梁。
梁西击景驹、秦嘉等，布常冠军。
项梁闻陈涉死，立楚怀王，以布为当阳君。
项梁败死，怀王与布及诸侯将皆聚彭城。
当是时，秦急围赵，赵数使人请救怀王。
怀王使宋义为上将军，项籍与布皆属之，北救赵。
及籍杀宋义河上，自立为上将军，使布先涉河，击秦军，数有利。
籍乃悉引兵从之，遂破秦军，降章邯等。
楚兵常胜，功冠诸侯安，诸侯兵皆服属楚者，以布数以少败众也。
项籍之引兵西至新安，又使布等夜击坑章邯秦卒二十余万人。
至关，不得入，又使布等先从间道破关下军，遂得入。
至感阳，布为前锋。
项王封诸将，立布为九江王，都六。
尊怀王为义帝，徙都长沙，乃阴令布击之。
布使将追杀之郴。
齐王田荣叛楚，项王往击齐，征兵九江，布称病不往，遣将将数千人行。
汉之败楚彭城，布又称病不佐楚。项王由此怨布，数使使者谯让召布，布愈恐，不敢往。
项王方北忧齐、赵，西患汉，所与者独布，又多其材，欲亲用之，以故未击。
汉王与楚大战彭城，不利，出梁地，至虞，谓左右曰： 如彼等者，无足与计天下事者。
translation: 
After the emperor was informed by Tingwei, Peng Yue and his clan were killed.
Ting Bu, a native of Liu County, originally had a surname of Ying.
When he was young, a guest told him that he could become king after being tortured.
When he reached his prime, he broke the law and was punished by Tao Bu. Tao Bu smiled happily and said, "Someone told me that after being punished, I would become king. Isn't that what it is?"
Everyone who heard this laughed at him.
Tingbu was sent to Lishan for hard labor for committing a crime. There were hundreds of thousands of prisoners in Lishan. Tinghu had contacts with the leaders and heroes among the prisoners, and finally led this group of people to escape to the Yangtze River and became a group of bandits.
When Chen Sheng raised his troops, Qing Bu went to meet Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County. At that time, Jing Bu had thousands of troops.
The county magistrate married his daughter to him.
Zhang Han destroyed Chen Sheng and defeated Lu Chen's army. Yingbu led his troops north to attack the troops of the left and right captains of the Qin army. He defeated them at Qingbo and led his troops to advance.
Yingbu heard that Xiang Liang had pacified Kuaiji, so he crossed the Huai River to the west and surrendered his troops to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang attacked Jingju, Qinjia and other places to the west, and Yingbu's army was always the bravest.
After Xiang Liang knew for sure that Chen She was dead, he supported King Huai of Chu and named him Dangyang Lord with a tattoo.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in battle. King Huai of Chu, Ying Bu and other princes and generals gathered in Pengcheng.
At this time, the Qin army stepped up the siege of Tangguo, and Tangguo sent people to request King Huai of Chu for rescue many times.
King Chu Huai sent Song Yi as the general, and Xiang Yu and Ying Bu were subordinate to him to go north to rescue the country.
Xiang Ji killed Song Yi on the bank of the Zhang River and established himself as general. He sent Yingbu to cross the Zhang River first and attack the Qin army, winning many times.
Xiang Ji led all his troops across the river and followed Ying Bu, defeating the Qin army and forcing Zhang Han and others to surrender.
The Chu army often won battles and made the greatest contributions among the princes. The reason why the armies of the princes all obeyed and subordinated to the Chu army was because Yingbu repeatedly defeated the larger number with a smaller number.
Xiang Ji led his army westward to Xin'an, and sent Yingbu and others to attack and bury alive Zhang Han's Qin soldiers of more than 200,000 men at night.
When they arrived at Hangu Pass, they were unable to enter, so they sent Ying Bu and others to raid from a small road and defeat the troops guarding the pass before they were able to enter.
When he arrived in Xianyang, Yingbu served as the forward.
King Xiang conferred titles on various generals, and made Yingbu the King of Jiujiang, making six counties his capital.
King Xiang honored King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor and moved the capital to Changsha, but secretly asked King Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill the Righteous Emperor.
Yingbu sent generals to chase him to Chen County and kill him.
King Tian Rong of Qi rebelled against Chu. King Xiang went to attack Qi and fine-tuned his army to Jiujiang. Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang excused himself from illness and sent his generals with thousands of people to go.
The Han army defeated Chu in Pengcheng, and Yingbu refused to help Chu due to illness. King Xiang resented Yingbu and sent envoys many times to condemn and recruit Yingbu. Yingbu was even more frightened and did not dare to go.
King Xiang was worried about Qi and Tang in the north, and worried about Han in the west. The only one he attached to was Yingbu. He also respected Yingbu's talents and wanted to rely on him and use him, so he did not attack him.
The army of the King of Han fought fiercely with the Chu army in Pengcheng. The Han army was defeated and fled through Liang to Yu County. The King of Han said to his left and right: People like you are not worthy of discussing world affairs together.
summary:
Ying Bu, from Liu County, was a convict who escaped to become a bandit. He joined Xiang Liang, then Xiang Yu, who made him King of Jiujiang. He killed the Righteous Emperor for Xiang Yu. Later, Sui He persuaded him to defect to Liu Bang. Ying Bu was made King of Huainan. After Han Xin and Peng Yue's deaths, he feared for his life and rebelled. He was defeated and killed by the emperor's forces.

Chunk 17: 
original: 
封贲赫为列侯，将率封者六人。
卢绾，丰人也，与高祖同里。
绾亲与高祖太上皇相爱，及生男，高祖、绾同日生，里中持羊、酒贺两家。
及高祖、绾壮，学书，又相爱也。
里中嘉两家亲相爱，生子同日，壮又相爱，复贺羊、酒。
高祖为布衣时，有吏事避宅，绾常随上下。
及高祖初起沛，绾以客从，入汉为将军，常侍中。
从东击项籍，以太尉常从，出入卧内，衣被食饮赏赐，群臣莫敢望。
虽萧、曹等，特以事见礼，至其亲幸，莫及绾者。
封为长安侯。
长安，故咸阳也。
项籍死，使绾别将，与刘贾击临江王共尉，还，从击燕王臧荼，皆破平。
时诸侯非刘氏而王者七人。
上欲王绾，为群臣觖望。
及虏臧荼。乃下诏，诏诸将相列侯择群臣有功者以为燕王。
群臣知上欲王绾，皆曰： 太尉长安侯卢绾常从平定天下，功最多，可王。
上乃立绾为燕王。
诸侯得幸莫如燕王者。
绾立六年，以陈豨事见疑而败。
豨者，宛句人也，不知始所以得从。
及韩王信反入匈奴，上至平城还，豨以郎中封为列侯，以赵相国将监赵、代边，边兵皆属焉。
豨少时，常称慕魏公子，及将守边，招致宾客。
常告过赵，宾客随之者千余乘，邯郸官舍皆满。
豨所以待客，如布衣交，皆出客下。
赵相周昌乃求入见上，具言豨宾客盛，擅兵于外，恐有变。
translation: 
The emperor granted Benhe the title of marquis, and six other generals received the title.
Lu Wan, a native of Fengyi, was from the same hometown as Gaozu.
Lu Wan's father was friendly with Gaozu's father and had children at the same time. Gaozu and Lu Wan were born on the same day. The villagers brought sheep and wine to congratulate both families.
When Gaozu and Lu Wan grew up, they studied together and became friendly.
The villagers praised the two families for being friendly to each other. They gave birth to a son on the same day, and the son grew up to be friendly again. They once again congratulated the two families with sheep and wine.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, Lu Wan always followed him around because he broke the law and evaded hiding.
When Emperor Gaozu raised troops in Pei County, Lu Wan followed him as a guest, entered Hanzhong and was promoted to general, often accompanying him in the inner court.
Following Gaozu's campaign against Xiang Yu, he always stayed close to him as a Taiwei, entering and leaving Gaozu's bedroom, receiving food, clothing, and various rewards, which none of the ministers dared to compare with.
Even though people like Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were respected only because of their career needs, as for the favor they received, no one could compare to Lu Wan.
Lu Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an.
Chang'an is the original Xianyang.
After Xiang Ji died, Lu Wan was asked to lead another army and attack Linjiang King Gongwei together with Liu Mai. After returning, he followed Emperor Gaozu to attack Zang Tu, King of Yan, and defeated the enemy and pacified those places.
At that time, there were seven princes who were not named Liu and were crowned kings.
The emperor wanted to make Lu Wan king, but the officials were dissatisfied and complained.
When Zang Tu was captured, he issued a letter from Shao and ordered the ministers and princes to choose the meritorious minister among the ministers to be crowned King of Yan.
The officials knew that the emperor wanted to make Lu Wan a king, and they all said: Lu Wan, the Taiwei Marquis of Chang'an, who often followed the emperor to bring peace to the world, and who made the most contributions, can be made king.
The emperor appointed Lu Wan as King of Yan.
Among the princes and kings, no one was as favored as King Yan.
Six years after Lu Wan was granted the title of King of Yan, Chen Xi collapsed due to suspicion of his rebellion.
Chen Xi was from Wanju County. He didn't know why he followed the King of Han in the first place.
When King Xin of Han rebelled against the Han and entered the Huns, and the emperor came back from Pingcheng, Chen Xi was granted the title of Marquis by the doctor, and as Zhao Xiangguo, he commanded and supervised the troops of Tangguo and Daiguo, and all the border defense troops belonged to him.
When Chen Xi was young, he often praised and admired Wei Gongzi Xinlingjun. When he was leading troops to guard the border fortress, he widely solicited and adopted guests.
When he returned to his hometown on vacation, he passed through the state of Zhao. There were more than a thousand cars with his guests, and the guesthouse of the Handan government was full.
Chen Xi treated his guests with the same etiquette as when interacting with civilians, always treating others with humility.
Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao State, requested to go to the capital to see the emperor. He explained in detail that Chen Xi had many guests and had many troops outside, so there was a fear that something might happen.
summary:
Lu Wan, from Fengyi, was a childhood friend of Liu Bang. He became King of Yan. Suspected of colluding with Chen Xi and the Xiongnu, he fled to the Xiongnu after Liu Bang's death, dying there.

Chunk 19: 
original: 
传至曾孙，有罪，国除。
吴芮，秦时番阳令也，甚得江湖间民心，号曰番君。
天下之初叛秦也，黥布归芮，芮妻之，因率越人举兵以应诸侯。
沛公攻南阳，乃遇芮之将梅鋗，与偕攻析、郦，降之。
及项羽相王，以芮率百越佐诸侯，从入关，故立芮为衡山王，都邾。
其将梅鋗功多，封十万户，为列侯。
项籍死，上以鋗有功，从入武关，故德芮，徙为长沙王，都临湘，一年薨，谥曰文王，子成王臣嗣。
薨，子哀王回嗣。
薨，子共王右嗣。
薨，子靖王差嗣。
孝文后七年薨，无子，国除。
初，文王芮，高祖贤之，制诏御史： 长沙王忠，其定著令。
至孝惠、高后时，封芮庶子二人为列侯，传国数世绝。
赞曰：昔高祖定天下，功臣异姓而王者八国。
张耳、吴芮、彭越、黥布、臧荼、卢绾与两韩信，皆徼一时之权变，以诈力成功，咸得裂土，南面称孤。
见疑强大，怀不自安，事穷势迫，卒谋叛逆，终于灭亡。
张耳以智全，至子亦失国。
唯吴芮之起，不失正道，故能传号五世，以无嗣绝，庆流支庶。
有以矣夫，著于甲令而称忠也！
translation: 
It was passed down to his great-grandson that the feudal state was abolished due to crime.
Wu Rui was the magistrate of Fanyang County during the Qin Dynasty. He was very popular among the people in the Jianghu area and was known as Fanjun.
The world began to rebel against the Qin Dynasty, Yingbu surrendered to Wu Rui, and Wu Rui married his daughter to him. So he led the Yue people to raise troops to respond to the anti-Qin struggles in various places.
Peigong attacked Nanyang County and encountered Wu Rui's general Mei Guo, so he and he attacked Xi County and Li County of Nanyang County. Both counties surrendered.
When Xiang Yu divided the princes among the princes, Wu Rui led the Baiyue soldiers to cooperate with the princes and followed them into Guanzhong, so he made Wu Rui the king of Hengshan and established Zhu as his capital.
His general Mei Guo had many merits and was granted the title of lord of 100,000 households.
After Xiang Yu's death, the emperor followed him into Wuguan because of his merits in the plum pot. So he was grateful to Wu Rui and changed his title to King of Changsha. He established his capital in Linxiang. He died a year later and was named King Wen. Zicheng Wang Wuchen succeeded to the throne.
When Wu Chen died, his son Ai Wang Hui succeeded to the throne.
Wu Hui died, and Wu You, the king of Zi Gong, succeeded to the throne.
Wu You died, and Wu Cha, the king of Zijing, succeeded to the throne.
Wu Chai died in the seventh year of Emperor Wen's reign without a son, and the feudal state was abolished.
At the beginning, King Wen Wu Rui, considered by Emperor Gaozu to be virtuous and loyal to the court, ordered the censor to say: The loyalty of the King of Changsha must be written in the decree.
At the time of Emperor Hui and Empress Gao, Wu Rui's two sons other than his legitimate son were granted the title of marquis. The title was passed down for several generations before being abolished.
Zan said: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu pacified the world, among the heroes who were not named Liu, there were eight countries who were crowned kings.
Zhang Er, Wu Rui, Peng Yue, Ting Bu, Zang Tu, Lu Wan and the two Han Xins were all able to adapt to the current situation, adapt to changes, and achieve success by virtue of cunning and strength. They all received fiefs, sat facing south, and called Gu the king.
Because they were powerful and were suspected by the court, they could not feel at ease. When things developed in the end, the situation was urgent and they were forced to plan a rebellion, and finally perished.
Zhang Er relied on his wisdom to save himself, and it was passed down to his son that he also lost his title.
Only Wu Rui did not violate the right path from the beginning, so he was able to pass the king's title to the fifth generation. However, the kingdom was abolished because there was no heir. There is a reason why his blessings were passed on to the descendants other than his legitimate son!
Written on important decrees issued by the imperial court to commend his loyalty!
summary:
Wu Rui, a Qin magistrate, led Yue troops to support Liu Bang. Xiang Yu made him King of Hengshan, later Liu Bang made him King of Changsha. He died a year later, his kingdom passed down five generations before ending without an heir. The historian comments that among the eight non-Liu kings, only Wu Rui remained loyal, his kingdom lasting longest due to his virtue.

