Chunk 0: 
original: 
夏禹，名曰文命。
禹之父曰鲧，鲧之父曰帝颛顼，颛顼之父曰昌意，昌意之父曰黄帝。
禹者，黄帝之玄孙而帝颛顼之孙也。
禹之曾大父昌意及父鲧皆不得在帝位，为人臣。
当帝尧之时，鸿水滔天，浩浩怀山襄陵，下民其忧。
尧求能治水者，群臣四岳皆曰鲧可。
尧曰： 鲧为人负命毁族，不可。
四岳曰： 等之未有贤于鲧者，愿帝试之。
于是尧听四岳，用鲧治水。
九年而水不息，功用不成。
于是帝尧乃求人，更得舜。
舜登用，摄行天子之政，巡狩。
行视鲧之治水无状，乃殛鲧于羽山以死。
天下皆以舜之诛为是。
于是舜举鲧子禹，而使续鲧之业。
尧崩，帝舜问四岳曰： 有能成美尧之事者使居官？
皆曰： 伯禹为司空，可成美尧之功。
舜曰： 嗟，然！
命禹： 女平水土，维是勉之。
禹拜稽首，让于契、后稷、皋陶。
舜曰： 女其往视尔事矣。
禹为人敏给克勤，其德不违，其仁可亲，其言可信：声为律，身为度，称以出；亹亹穆穆，为纲为纪。
禹乃遂与益、后稷奉帝命，命诸侯百姓兴人徒以傅土，行山表木，定高山大川。
禹伤先人父鲧功之不成受诛，乃劳身焦思，居外十三年，过家门不敢入。
薄衣食，致孝于鬼神。
卑宫室，致费于沟淢陆行乘车，水行乘船，泥行乘橇，山行乘檋左准绳，右规矩，载四时，以开九州，通九道，陂九泽，度九山。
令益予众庶稻，可种卑湿。
命后稷予众庶难得之食。
translation: 
Xia Yu's name was Wen Ming.
Yu's father was Gun, Gun's father was Emperor Zhuanxu, Zhuanxu's father was Changyi, and Changyi's father was Huangdi.
Yu is the great-great-grandson of Huangdi and the grandson of Emperor Zhuanxu.
Neither Yu's great-grandfather Changyi nor his father Gun ascended to the throne, but served as ministers to the emperor.
When Emperor Yao was in power, the floods were so powerful that they surrounded the mountains and covered the hills. The people were very worried about this.
Yao was looking for someone who could control the floods, and all the ministers in the four mountains said that Gun could do it.
Yao said: Gun, a man who disobeyed the destiny and destroyed his own people, is of no use.
The four mountains all said: In comparison, among the ministers, no one is stronger than him. I hope you will let him try.
So Yao followed Siyue's advice and appointed Gun to control the flood.
Nine years later, floods are still raging and water control has not achieved any results.
At this time, Emperor Yao asked someone else to control the floods, and he found Shun again.
Shun was appointed to take charge of the emperor's government affairs and visited all directions.
During his inspection, Shun saw that Gun was ineffective in controlling the floods, so he killed Gun at Yushan.
Everyone in the world believed that Shun's punishment of Gun was correct.
Shun also promoted Gun's son Yu to continue his father Gun's career in flood control.
After Yao's death, Emperor Shun asked Siyue: Is there anyone who can fulfill Yao's cause well and hold an official position?
It is said that if Boyu is allowed to be Sikong, he will definitely be able to complete Yao's deeds well. Emperor Shun said: Yes!
That's it!
Therefore, he appointed Yu and said: Go and calm down the water and soil, and work hard!
Yu bowed his head and thanked him, and humbly gave way to Qi, Houji and Gaotao.
Shun said: You'd better go and handle your affairs quickly!
Yu was smart, quick-witted, and diligent. He abided by morality and was kind and amiable. His speech was honest and trustworthy, his voice was in tune, his behavior was in line with the law, and the standards of weighing were set by Yu.
He is diligent and serious, and is a model for all officials. Yu accepted Emperor Shun's order and took office together with Yi and Hou Ji. He ordered the princes and officials to recruit civilians to carry out water and soil control work. He set up signs along the way and measured the appearance of mountains and rivers.
Yu was saddened by the fact that his father Gun was killed for failing to control the floods. Therefore, regardless of fatigue and exhaustion, Yu did not dare to enter his house even after passing by his house several times for thirteen years.
He lived simply in food and clothing, and tried his best to worship ghosts and gods.
They lived in simple houses and spent their money on water conservancy projects such as building canals and digging ditches. He traveled by car on land, took a boat by water, rode a sled on muddy roads, and wore toothed shoes when walking on mountain roads. He holds a yardstick and a rope in his left hand, a rule and a rule in his right hand, and also carries instruments for measuring the four seasons and determining directions, which he uses to develop Kyushu, open up roads to Kyushu, build embankments of Kyushu lakes, and measure the veins of mountains in Kyushu.
He asked Boyi to distribute rice seeds and teach the people to plant them in low-lying and humid places.
Later, Houji was asked to provide relief to the people who could not ensure food and clothing.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
食少，调有余相给，以均诸侯。
禹乃行相地宜所有以贡，及山川之便利。
禹行自冀州始。
冀州：既载壶口，治梁及岐。
既修太原，至于岳阳。
覃怀致功，致于衡漳。
其土白壤。赋上上错，田中中。
常、卫既从，大陆既为。
鸟夷皮服。夹右碣石，入于海。
济、河维沇州：九河既道，雷夏既泽，雍、沮会同，桑土既蚕，于是民得下丘居土。
其土黑坟，草繇木条。田中下，赋贞，作十有三年乃同。
其贡漆、丝，其篚织文。
浮于济、漯，通于河。
海岱维青州：堣夷既略，潍、淄其道。
其土白坟，海滨广潟，厥田斥卤。
田上下，赋中上。
厥贡盐絺，海物维错，岱畎丝、枲、铅、松、怪石，莱夷为牧，其篚酓丝。
浮于汶，通于济。
海岱及淮维徐州：淮、沂其治，蒙、羽其艺。
大野既都，东原厎平。
其土赤埴坟，草木渐包。
其田上中，赋中中。
贡维土五色，羽畎夏狄，峄阳孤桐，泗滨浮磬，淮夷蠙珠臮鱼，其篚玄纤缟。
浮于淮、泗，通于河。
translation: 
In places where food is scarce, some regions are allowed to transfer their surplus grain to food-deficient areas, so that all princes have food to eat within their borders.
Yu also inspected the unique products of various places to determine their tribute, and also inspected the convenient transportation conditions of mountains and rivers in various places.
Yu's journey to supervise flood control began in Jizhou.
Jizhou: Hukou has been controlled, and Liangshan and its branches will be controlled next.
After managing Taiyuan, it was then repaired to the south of Taiyue Mountain.
After controlling Qinhuai, they continued to the Hengshui and Zhangshui areas.
The soil in Jizhou is white and soft. The taxes here belong to the upper class, that is, the first class, sometimes mixed with the second class. The fields belong to the middle class, that is, the fifth class.
The Changshui and Weishui rivers have been dredged, and the land around Daluze can be cultivated.
The Tori tribe in the northeast paid tribute to the nobles for the skins of exotic animals.
They followed the sea route to pay tribute, and when sailing south along the coast, they saw the Jieshi at the right corner, so they turned west and sailed straight into the Yellow River channel.
Between Jishui and the Yellow River is Yanzhou: the nine rivers in this area have been unblocked, Leixia has accumulated into a large lake, and Yongshui and Jushui will also flow into this lake. Mulberries are planted on the land and silkworms are raised, so the people can live in the flatlands from the highlands where they moved to avoid floods.
The soil of Yan is black and fertile, the vegetation on it is lush and the trees are tall.
The fields here are listed in the sixth class, and the taxes are in the ninth class.
After thirteen years of farming, we can be like other states.
The soil here is white and fertile, the seashore is wide and contains alkali, and the fields are mostly saline-alkali land.
The fields belong to the upper and lower classes, that is, the third class, and the taxes belong to the middle and upper classes, that is, the fourth class.
The tributes in this area include salt, fine kudzu cloth, seafood, and stones for grinding jade, as well as silk, hemp, lead, pine, and jade-like stones from the Tai Valley. The Laiyi area can be used for grazing, so livestock products are tribute there, as well as baskets containing tussah silk used to make piano strings.
Its tribute route was shipped directly from Wenshui to Jishui.
The area between the coast in the east, Mount Tai in the north, and Huai River in the south is Xuzhou. The Huai River and Yishui River in this area have been controlled, and crops can be grown in Mengshan and Yushan.
Ohnozawa has accumulated into a lake, the water in the Dongyuan area has receded, and the land has leveled off.
The soil here is red, sticky and fertile, and the vegetation growing here is very lush.
The fields were ranked in the second class, and the taxes were in the fifth class.
The tributes in this area are the five-color soil used by the emperor to build altars to worship heaven, the five-color pheasant feathers from the Yu Valley, the solitary tung tree that is a specialty of the south of Yishan Mountain and can be used to make harps, the floating rock on the shore of Surabaya, the pearl oysters and fish products from Huaiyi, and the fine and clean black and white silk held in bamboo baskets.
它进贡路线是水路，从淮水运入泗水，再转入菏水。


Chunk 2: 
original: 
淮海维扬州：彭蠡既都，阳鸟所居。
三江既入，震泽致定。
竹箭既布。其草惟夭，其木惟乔，其土涂泥。田下下，赋下上上杂。
贡金三品，瑶、琨、竹箭，齿、革、羽、旄，岛夷卉服，其篚织贝，其包橘、柚锡贡。
均江海，通淮、泗。
荆及衡阳维荆州：江、汉朝宗于海。
九江甚中，沱、涔已道，云土、梦为治。
其土涂泥。田下中，赋上下。
贡羽、旄、齿、革，金三品，杶、榦、栝、柏，砺、砥、砮、丹，维箘簬、楛，三国致贡其名，包匦菁茅，其篚玄纁玑组，九江入赐大龟。
浮于江、沱、涔、汉，逾于雒，至于南河。
荆、河惟豫州：伊、雒、瀍、涧既入于河，荥播既都，道荷泽，被明都。
其土壤，下土坟垆。
田中上，赋杂上中。
贡漆、丝、絺、纻，其篚纤絮，锡贡磬错。浮于雒，达于河。
华阳黑水惟梁州：汶、嶓既艺，沱、涔既道，蔡、蒙旅平，和夷厎绩。
其土青骊。田下上，赋下中三错。
贡璆、铁、银、镂、砮、磬，熊、罴、狐、貍。
translation: 
Starting from the Huaihe River in the north and reaching the sea in the southeast is Yangzhou. The Pengli area has merged into a lake, which serves as a habitat for swan geese returning south every year.
The Songjiang, Qiantang, and Puyang rivers enter the sea there, and the waters of Taihu Lake are stabilized.
Now the land is covered with bamboo forests, and beautiful grasses and tall green trees can be seen everywhere. The soil here is moist, the fields are ranked ninth, and the taxes are seventh, sometimes sixth.
The tributes from this state include three colors of copper, as well as jade and gemstones such as Yao and Kun, as well as bamboo, ivory, leather from exotic animals, feathers of rare birds, tails of jingniu, and a kind of clothing called "huifu" presented by the Daoyi people, as well as brocade with shell-shaped patterns in baskets as tribute, and oranges and grapefruits that were properly packaged as tribute.
These tributes entered the Huaihe River and Sishui via the sea and the Yangtze River.
To the south from Jingshan to Hengshan is Jingzhou: this area has the Yangtze River and the Han River flowing into the sea.
Most of the many tributaries of the Yangtze River have fixed river channels, the Tuo River and the Laishui River have been channeled, and the Yunze and Mengze rivers have also been regulated.
The soil here is moist, the fields are in the lower middle, that is, the eighth class, and the taxes are in the upper and lower classes, that is, the third class.
The tribute items include feathers, oxtails, ivory, leather, three-color copper, as well as chun wood, cypress wood, juniper wood, and cypress wood, as well as rough and fine grinding stones, nipstone and cinnabar for arrowheads, especially bamboo wormwood for arrow shafts. Hechu wood is the most famous specialty product paid tribute by the three vassal states near the Han River. There are also green grass wrapped and placed in boxes for filtering wine during sacrifices, colorful fabrics held in bamboo baskets, and ribbons used to thread beads. Sometimes the giant tortoises produced in Jiujiang were paid tribute according to orders.
When paying tribute, they passed through the Yangtze River, Tuoshui River, Lun River, and Han River, then traveled overland for a while, then entered Luoshui River, and then turned into Nanhe River.
Between Jingzhou and the Yellow River is Yuzhou: Yishui, Luoshui, Zhangshui, and Jianshui have all been dredged and poured into the Yellow River. Xingbo has also merged into a lake. Heze has also been dredged and the embankment of Mingduze has been built.
The soil here is soft and fertile, while the lowlands are fertile and solid black soil.
The land belongs to the upper middle class, that is, the fourth class, and the taxes belong to the upper middle class, that is, the second class, and sometimes it is the first class.
They paid tribute to lacquer, silk, fine kudzu cloth, hemp, and fine silk wadding in bamboo baskets. Sometimes they paid tribute to stones used for making jade chimes according to orders. When paying tribute, they took the waterway and entered the Yellow River through Luoshui River.
Between the southern foot of Mount Huashan and Heishui is Liangzhou: Wenshan and Jizhongshan are now ready for farming, the Tuoshui and Xunshui rivers have been dredged, the roads in Caishan and Mengshan have been repaired, and water control in the Heyi area has also achieved results.
The soil here is blue-black, the fields are in the lower and upper grades, that is, the seventh grade, and the taxes are in the lower and middle grades, that is, the eighth grade, and sometimes they are also in the seventh or ninth grade.
The tributes include beautiful jade, iron, silver, hard iron for carving, stone for making arrowheads, chime stones for making chimes, as well as bears, scorpions, and foxes.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
织皮西倾因桓是来，浮于潜，逾于沔，入于渭，乱于河。
黑水西河惟雍州：弱水既西，泾属渭汭漆、沮既从，沣水所同。
荆、岐已旅，终南、敦物至于鸟鼠。
原隰厎绩，至于都野。
三危既度，三苗大序。
其土黄壤。田上上，赋中下。
贡璆、琳、琅玕浮于积石，至于龙门西河，会于渭汭织皮昆仑、析支、渠搜，西戎即序。
道九山：汧及岐至荆山，逾于河；壶口、雷首至于太岳；砥柱、析城至于王屋；太行、常山至于碣石，入于海；西倾、朱圉、鸟鼠至于太华；熊耳、外方、桐柏至于负尾；道嶓冢，至于荆山；内方至于大别；汶山之阳至衡山，过九江，至于敷浅原。
道九川：弱水至于合黎，余波入于流沙。
道黑水，至于三危，入于南海。
道河积石，至于龙门，南至华阴，东至砥柱，又东至于盟津，东过雒汭，至于大邳，北过降水，至于大陆，北播为九河，同为逆河，入于海。
嶓冢道漾，东流为汉，又东为苍浪之水，过三澨，入于大别，南入于江，东汇泽为彭蠡，东为北江，入于海。
汶山道江，东别为沱，又东至于醴，过九江，至于东陵，东迆北会于汇，东为中江，入于海。
道沇水，东为济，入于河，泆为荥，东出陶丘北，又东至于荷，又东北会于汶，又东北入于海。
道淮自桐柏，东会于泗、沂，东入于海。
道渭自鸟鼠同穴，东会于沣，又东北至于泾，东过漆、沮，入于河。
道雒自熊耳，东北会于涧、瀍，又东会于伊，东北入于河。
于是九州攸同，四奥既居，九山刊旅，九川涤原，九泽既陂，四海会同。
translation: 
The tributes of the Zhipi Tribe were transported from the Western Qingshan Mountains of Xirong through the Huan River, then transported by diving boat, into the Mianshui River, and then walked a mountain road into the Wei River, and finally crossed the Yellow River to the capital.
Between Heishui and the west bank of the Yellow River is Yongzhou: the weak water has flowed westward after treatment, and the Jingshui River merged into the Wei River. Qishui and Jushui also merge into the Weishui, and Fengshui also flows into the Weishui.
The roads in Jingshan and Qishan have been opened, and the roads from Zhongnan Mountain and Dunwu Mountain to Niaoshu Mountain have also been completed.
The management projects on plateaus and troughs have achieved results, and have been managed all the way to the Tonozawa area.
The Sanwei Mountain area is now habitable, and the San Miao people are also very obedient.
The soil here is yellow in color, soft and fertile, the fields are in the upper category, that is, the first grade, and the taxes are in the middle and lower category, that is, the sixth grade.
The tributes are beautiful jade and beautiful stones. When paying tribute, they took the waterway from the foot of Jishi Mountain, followed the river to the Xihe River between the Longmen Mountains, and gathered in the Weishui Bay. The Zhipi tribe lived in Kunlun Mountain, Zhizhi Mountain, Qusou Mountain and other places. At that time, the Xirong countries also surrendered.
Yu opened nine mountain roads: one started from Qishan and Qishan all the way to Jingshan and crossed the Yellow River; one ran from Hukou Mountain and Leishou Mountain to Taiyue Mountain; one ran from Diizhu Mountain and Xicheng Mountain to Wangwu Mountain; one started from Taihang Mountain and Changshan Mountain to Jieshi Mountain, and entered the sea to connect with waterways; One runs from Xiqing Mountain, Zhuyu Mountain, and Niaoshu Mountain to Taihua Mountain; one runs from Xiong'er Mountain, Waifang Mountain, and Tongbai Mountain to Fuwei Mountain; one runs from Jizhong Mountain to Jingshan Mountain; one runs from Neifang Mountain to Dabie Mountain; and one runs from the south of Wenshan Mountain to Hengshan Mountain, crosses Jiujiang, and finally reaches Fuqianyuan Mountain.
Yu channeled nine large rivers: he channeled the weak water to Heli, and caused the downstream of the weak water to flow into quicksand.
The black water was channeled, passed through Sanwei Mountain, and flowed into the South China Sea.
The Yellow River is channeled, starting from Jishi Mountain, to Longmen Mountain, south to Huayin, then turning eastward through Diaizhu Mountain, continuing eastward to Mengjin, then eastward through Luoshui and entering the river mouth, until Dapi; then it turns northward through Huishui, reaches Daluze, and then divides into nine rivers in the north. These nine rivers merge into one river downstream, called Nihe, and finally flow into the sea.
Starting from Jizhong Mountain, Yangshui is channeled. It flows eastward to become the Hanshui River, and then flows eastward to become the Canglangshui River. It passes through the Sanyangshui River and reaches the Dabie Mountains. It turns south and flows into the Yangtze River. Then it flows eastward to join the Penglize Water, and continues eastward to become the Beijiang River and flows into the sea.
Starting from Wenshan, the Yangtze River is channeled, branching off to the east as a tributary called Tuoshui River, then going east to reach Lishui River, passing through Jiujiang, and arriving at Dongling. It flows diagonally eastwards to the north, meets the water of Penglize, and continues eastward to become Zhongjiang River, and finally flows into the sea.
It diverts the Dian River and flows eastward to become the Jishui River. It flows into the Yellow River. When the two rivers meet, they overflow into the Yingze River. It passes eastward through the north of Taoqiu, continues eastward to Heze River, and then flows northeastward to join the Wenshui River, and then flows northward into the sea.
Starting from Tongbai Mountain, the Huai River is channeled eastward to join the Sishui River and Yishui River, and then flows eastward into the sea.
The channel of the Wei River starts from Niaoshu Tongxing Mountain, goes east to join the Feng River, then east to join the Jing River, then east through Qishui and Ju River, and flows into the Yellow River.
The Luoshui River is diverted from Xiong'er Mountain to the northeast to join the Jianshui River and the Xishui River, and then to the east to join the Yishui River, and then to the northeast to flow into the Yellow River.
All the mountains, rivers and rivers have been tamed. From then on, the nine states were unified and everyone within the four borders could live. Roads were opened in the nine mountains, the water sources were dredged in the nine rivers, and embankments were built in the nine lakes. The princes from all over the world could come to the capital for alliance and pilgrimage.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
六府甚脩，众土交正，致慎财赋，咸则三壤成赋。中国赐土姓： 祗台德先，不距朕行。
今天子之国以外五百里甸服：百里赋纳总，二百里纳铚，三百里纳秸服，四百里粟，五百里米。甸服外五百里侯服：百里采，二百里任国，三百里诸侯。
侯服外五百里绥服：三百里揆文教，二百里奋武卫。绥服外五百里要服：三百里夷，二百里蔡。要服外五百里荒服：三百里蛮，二百里流。
东渐于海，西被于流沙，朔、南暨：声教讫于四海。
于是帝锡禹玄圭，以告成功于天下。天下于是太平治。
皋陶作士以理民。
帝舜朝，禹、伯夷、皋陶相与语帝前。
皋陶述其谋曰： 信其道德，谋明辅和。
禹曰： 然，如何？
皋陶曰： 於！慎其身修，思长，敦序九族，众明高翼，近可远在已。 禹拜美言，曰： 然。
皋陶曰： 於！在知人，在安民。 禹曰： 吁！
皆若是，惟帝其难之。
知人则智，能官人；能安民则惠，黎民怀之。
能知能惠，何忧乎驩兜，何迁乎有苗，何畏乎巧言善色佞人？
皋陶曰： 然，於！
亦行有九德，亦言其有德。
乃言曰： 始事事，宽而栗，柔而立，愿而共，治而敬，扰而毅，直而温，简而谦，刚而实，强而义，章其有常吉哉。
日宣三德，蚤夜翊明有家。
日严振敬六德，亮采有国。
翕受普施，九德咸事，俊乂在官，百吏肃谨。
毋教邪淫奇谋。
非其人居其官，是谓乱天事。
天讨有罪，五刑五用哉。
吾言厎可行乎？
translation: 
Each tax official has his or her own responsibilities, and taxes must be collected in various places. Taxes must be collected with caution and based on the fertility of the land, and must be collected within the nine states of China. He divided the princes among the nine states, gave them land and surnames, and ordered: "You must respect my virtues first, and you must not violate my various measures."
The area five hundred miles away from Suifu is the key service, that is, the area that is bound and obeyed by the emperor: within three hundred miles of Suifu, one must abide by the teachings and live in peace; the area within two hundred miles away is the place where prisoners are exiled.
The area five hundred miles away should be conquered as desolate areas, that is, the remote areas on the far side were guarded by the emperor; the areas within three hundred miles closer should be conquered as desolate and backward, where people could come and go without restriction; and the area within two hundred miles further away would be the place where prisoners were exiled.
In this way, with the sea to the east, the desert to the west, and from north to south, the emperor's prestige and education reached the remote frontiers in all directions.
So Emperor Shun gave Yu a piece of black jade representing the color of water in recognition of his merits in flood control, announcing to the world that the flood control was successful. The world will be peaceful and stable from now on.
Gaotao held the official position of law enforcement sergeant and governed the people.
When Emperor Shun went to court, Yu, Boyi, and Gaotao talked together in front of Emperor Shun.
Gao Tao expressed his opinion and said: If you follow morality unswervingly, you can achieve wise strategies and unite your ministers.
Yu said: That’s right, but what should we do?
Gao Tao said: Oh, you must be careful about your self-cultivation and have long-term plans to make all tribes honest, loving, obedient and orderly. In this way, many knowledgeable people will work hard to assist you. From the near to the far, you must start from yourself. Yu thanked Gao Tao for his kind words and said: "Yes."
Gao Tao said: Oh, and achieving virtue lies in being able to understand people and appease the people. Yu said: Ha!
Like this, even Emperor Yao would probably find it difficult.
If you can understand people, you are wise, and you can properly arrange official positions for them; if you can appease the people, you are benevolent, and the people will love you.
If you can understand people and be benevolent, why worry about Huan Dou? Why exile Youmiao? Why worry about the hypocritical and flattering villain who speaks sweet words?
Gao Tao said: Yes, that's true.
A person's behavior should be checked based on nine virtues. Let's talk about these nine virtues now.
He went on to say: The nine virtues begin with action. They are generous yet dignified, gentle yet firm, honest yet respectful, talented yet cautious, kind yet resolute, upright yet kind, easy yet sharp, decisive yet practical, strong yet reasonable. If you carry forward these nine virtues and stick to them for a long time, that will be great!
If you can declare three of these virtues every day and work hard morning and night, the minister will be able to keep his fief.
If you solemnly and respectfully practice the six virtues every day, and conscientiously assist the king in his affairs, the princes will be able to keep their feudal kingdoms.
If these nine moral qualities can be fully possessed and implemented universally, talented and virtuous people can be appointed as officials, and all officials can handle their government affairs seriously.
Don't let evil tricks succeed.
If an unsuitable person is placed in an official position, it is called disrupting a major event ordained by God.
God punishes the guilty with five types of punishments.
Most of what I said is feasible, right?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
禹曰： 女言致可绩行。
皋陶曰： 余未有知，思赞道哉。
帝舜谓禹曰： 女亦昌言。
禹拜曰： 於，予何言！
予思日孳孳。
皋陶难禹曰： 何谓孳孳？
禹曰： 鸿水滔天，浩浩怀山襄陵，下民皆服于水。
予陆行乘车，水行乘舟，泥行乘橇，山行乘檋，行山刊木。
与益予众庶稻鲜食。
以决九川致四海，浚畎浍致之川。
与稷予众庶难得之食。
食少，调有余补不足，徙居。
众民乃定，万国为治。
皋陶曰： 然，此而美也。 禹曰： 於，帝！
慎乃在位，安尔止。辅德，天下大应。
清意以昭待上帝命，天其重命用休。
帝曰： 吁，臣哉，臣哉！
臣作朕股肱耳目。
予欲左右有民，女辅之。
余欲观古人之象，日月星辰，作文绣服色，女明之。
予欲闻六律五声八音，来始滑，以出入五言，女听。
予即辟，女匡拂予。
女无面谀，退而谤予。
敬四辅臣。
诸众谗嬖臣，君德诚施皆清矣。 禹曰： 然。
帝即不时，布同善恶则毋功。
帝曰： 毋若丹朱傲，维慢游是好，毋水行舟，朋淫于家，用绝其世。予不能顺是。
禹曰： 予娶涂山，癸甲，生启予不子，以故能成水土功。
辅成五服，至于五千里，州十二师，外薄四海，咸建五长，各道有功，苗顽不即功，帝其念哉。
帝曰： 道吾德，乃女功序之也。
皋陶于是敬禹之德，令民皆则禹。
不如言，刑从之。
translation: 
Yu said: If I act according to your words, I will definitely achieve results.
Gao Tao said: My talent is shallow, I just hope to help promote the way to govern the world.
Emperor Shun said to Yu: Come on, Yu, tell me your opinions.
Yu bowed humbly and said, "Oh, what did I say?"
All I think about all day is hard work.
Gao Tao asked: What does it mean to be diligent and hardworking?
Yu said: The flood was surging and mighty, surrounding the mountains and submerging the hills. The people were severely affected by the water.
I walked on land and rode in cars, walked in water and rode boats, walked in swamps and rode wooden sleds, and wore iron-toothed shoes when walking on mountain roads. I climbed over mountains and ridges, set up wooden stakes, and marked the mountains.
Together with Yi, I gave the people rice and fresh meat.
Nine rivers were channeled into the sea, and field ditches were led into the rivers.
Together with Ji, he helped the people who had difficulty eating food.
When food is scarce, food is transferred from areas with surplus food to areas with food shortage, or people are asked to move to areas with food.
The people settled down and all the vassal states were well governed.
Gao Tao said: Yes, these are your great achievements. Yu said: Ah, Emperor!
As the lord of all peoples, you must be cautious, act steadily and appropriately, and supplement it with virtue, and everyone in the world will respond and support you.
If you follow God's orders with a quiet heart, God will give you good luck again and again.
Emperor Shun said: Ah, a capable minister, a capable minister!
The right ministers are my arms and my eyes and ears.
I want to help the people of the world, you have to help me.
I will observe the images of the ancients, the sun, the moon, and the stars, and make the hierarchical patterns on their clothing. You must carefully identify them.
I want to listen to the six tones, five tones, and eight tones to examine whether the politics there are desolate, so that I can choose the opinions of all parties. You should listen carefully.
If there is anything inappropriate in my words or deeds, you must correct me.
Don't flatter me in person and then accuse me when you get back.
I respect the ministers who assist me front and back.
As for those sycophants who make trouble, as long as the monarch's virtues are truly implemented, they will be eliminated. Yu said: Yes.
If you don't do this, good people and bad people will all be lumped together without distinction, and great things will not be accomplished.
Emperor Shun said: "Don't be like Danzhu, who is arrogant and arrogant. He only cares about dissolute entertainment, sailing on waterless land, and gathering people at home to commit adultery, so that he will no longer be able to inherit the throne."
I will never leave this kind of person alone. Yu said: When I married Tushan's daughter, I went to control the floods only four days after the wedding. I never raised my child Qi from birth, so I could make the work of controlling the water and soil successful.
I helped the emperor to set up five vassals, covering an area of ​​5,000 miles, and appointed chiefs to all the twelve states in the world. The territory extends to the four seas. I set up a leader in each of the five vassal states. They all performed their duties and all had merits. Only Sanmiao was stubborn and had no merits. I hope you, the emperor, will remember this.
Emperor Shun said: Use my moral teachings to enlighten them, and your work will make them submit!
Gao Tao therefore respected Yu's merits and ordered the world to learn from Yu.
Those who disobey orders will be punished.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
舜德大明。
于是夔行乐，祖考至，群后相让，鸟兽翔舞，《箫韶》九成，凤凰来仪，百兽率舞，百官信谐。
帝用此作歌曰： 陟天之命，维时维几。
乃歌曰： 股肱喜哉，元首起哉，百工熙哉！
皋陶拜手稽首扬言曰： 念哉，率为兴事，慎乃宪，敬哉！
乃更为歌曰： 元首明哉，股肱良哉，庶事康哉！
又歌曰： 元首丛脞哉，股肱惰哉，万事堕哉！
帝拜曰： 然，往钦哉！
于是天下皆宗禹之明度数声乐，为山川神主。
帝舜荐禹于天，为嗣。
十七年而帝舜崩。
三年丧毕，禹辞辟舜之子商均于阳城。
天下诸侯皆去商均而朝禹。
禹于是遂即天子位，南面朝天下，国号曰夏后，姓姒氏。
帝禹立而举皋陶荐之，且授政焉，而皋陶卒。
封皋陶之后于英、六，或在许。
而后举益，任之政。
十年，帝禹东巡狩，至于会稽而崩。
以天下授益。
三年之丧毕，益让帝禹之子启，而辟居箕山之阳。
禹子启贤，天下属意焉。
及禹崩，虽授益，益之佐禹日浅，天下未洽。
故诸侯皆去益而朝启，曰 吾君帝禹之子也。
于是启遂即天子之位，是为夏后帝启。
夏后帝启，禹之子，其母涂山氏之女也。
有扈氏不服，启伐之，大战于甘。
将战，作《甘誓》，乃召六卿申之。启曰： 嗟！
六事之人，予誓告女：有扈氏威侮五行，怠弃三正，天用剿绝其命。
今予维共行天之罚。
translation: 
Therefore, Shun's moral education was further developed.
At this time, Kui played music, the spirits of the ancestors came to appreciate it, the princes showed courtesy to each other, birds and beasts flew and danced around the palace, and after playing "Xiao Shao" nine times, the phoenix was summoned. All the beasts danced, and all the officials were loyal and harmonious.
Emperor Shun then sang: "Follow the mandate of heaven, implement virtuous government, comply with the times of heaven, and act with caution and prudence."
He also sang: The ministers are high-spirited, the emperor is working hard, and the careers of all officials are prosperous!
Gao Taozuo bowed his head and said loudly: You must remember to take the lead and work hard to do your duty, be careful about your laws, and handle all kinds of affairs seriously!
So he continued to sing: The emperor is wise and wise, the ministers are all virtuous, and everything in the world is prosperous!
He also sang: The emperor has no big ideas, the ministers are slack, and everything in the world is ruined!
Emperor Shun paid homage and said, "Yes!" We will all work hard to handle our respective affairs from now on!
At this time, the world respected Yu for his expertise in scale and music, and respected him as the Lord of the Gods of Mountains and Rivers, meaning an emperor who could issue orders on behalf of the Gods of Mountains and Rivers.
Emperor Shun recommended Yu to heaven as the heir to the throne.
Seventeen years later, Emperor Shun died.
After three years of mourning, Yu took refuge in Yangcheng in order to give up the throne to Shun's son Shangjun.
But all the princes in the world did not go to worship Shang Jun and came to worship Yu.
Only then did Yu inherit the throne of the Son of Heaven, and he accepted the worship of all the princes from the south. His country name was Queen of Xia, and his surname was Si.
After Emperor Yu established himself as emperor, he appointed Gao Tao as his successor, recommended him to heaven, and entrusted him with state affairs. However, Gao Tao died without succeeding him.
Yu sealed the descendants of Gaotao in Ying and Liu, and some in Xu.
Later, he used his benefits and granted him state affairs.
Ten years later, Emperor Yu visited the east and arrived at Kuaiji, where he died.
Spread benefit to the world.
After three years of mourning, Yi gave up the throne to Yu's son Qi and went to the south of Jishan Mountain to escape.
Yu's son became virtuous, and all the people in the world turned to him.
When Yu died, although he passed the throne of emperor to Yi, because Yi had not been assisting Yu for long, the world did not obey him.
Therefore, all the princes left Yi and went to pay homage to Qi, saying: "We will make Emperor Yu's son king."
So Qi inherited the position of emperor, and this was Emperor Qi of Xia.
Emperor Qi of the Xia Dynasty was the son of Yu, and his mother was a daughter of the Tushan clan.
After Qi ascended the throne, some members of the Hu clan did not come to join him, so Qi went on an expedition and fought a battle at Gandi.
Before the battle began, Qi made an oath called "Gan's Oath" and summoned the generals of the six armies for admonishment. Qi said: Sigh!
Generals of the Sixth Army, I declare an oath to you: Mr. Youhu despises the five constant principles of benevolence, righteousness, etiquette, wisdom, and faith, and deviates from the righteous way of heaven, earth, and man. Therefore, God will cut off his great destiny.
Now I respectfully carry out God's punishment for him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
左不攻于左，右不攻于右，女不共命。
御非其马之政，女不共命。
用命，赏于祖；不用命，僇于社，予则帑僇女。
遂灭有扈氏。天下咸朝。
夏后帝启崩，子帝太康立。
帝太康失国，昆弟五人，须于洛汭，作《五子之歌》。
太康崩，弟中康立，是为帝中康。帝中康时，羲、和湎淫，废时乱日。
胤往征之，作《胤征》。
中康崩，子帝相立。
帝相崩，子帝少康立。
帝少康崩，子帝予立。
帝予崩，子帝槐立。
帝槐崩，子帝芒立。
帝芒崩，子帝泄立。
帝泄崩，子帝不降立。
帝不降崩，弟帝扃立。
帝扃崩，子帝廑立。
帝廑崩，立帝不降之子孔甲，是为帝孔甲。
帝孔甲立，好方鬼神，事淫乱。
夏后氏德衰，诸侯畔之。
天降龙二，有雌雄，孔甲不能食，未得豢龙氏。
陶唐既衰，其后有刘累，学扰龙于豢龙氏，以事孔甲。
孔甲赐之姓曰御龙氏，受豕韦之后。
龙一雌死，以食夏后。
夏后使求，惧而迁去。
孔甲崩，子帝皋立。
帝皋崩，子帝发立。
帝发崩，子帝履癸立，是为桀。
帝桀之时，自孔甲以来而诸侯多畔夏，桀不务德而武伤百姓，百姓弗堪。
乃召汤而囚之夏台，已而释之。
汤修德，诸侯皆归汤，汤遂率兵伐夏桀。桀走鸣条，遂放而死。
桀谓人曰： 吾悔不遂杀汤于夏台，使至此。
汤乃践天子位，代夏朝天下。
汤封夏之后，至周封于杞也。
translation: 
If the archer on the left side of the chariot does not shoot the enemy from the left, and the swordsman on the right side of the chariot does not kill the enemy from the right, he is disobeying the order.
If the driver cannot keep the horses and chariots in order, he also disobeys orders.
Whoever obeys the command will be rewarded in front of the ancestors and gods; whoever disobeys the command will be killed in front of the community gods, and their wives and children will be killed together.
So the Youhu clan was eliminated, and everyone from the world came to worship him.
After the death of Emperor Qi of the Xia Dynasty, his son Emperor Taikang succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Taikang spent all day playing and hunting without caring about civil affairs. As a result, he was exiled by Yi and lost his country. His five brothers waited for him on the north bank of Luoshui River but did not wait for him, so they composed "Song of the Five Sons".
After Taikang passed away, his younger brother Zhongkang succeeded to the throne. This was Emperor Zhongkang. When Emperor Zhongkang was in power, the ministers Xi and He who were in charge of the four seasons of heaven and earth indulged in drinking and messed up the four seasons and days of each year.
Yin was ordered to conquer him and wrote "Yin Zheng".
After Zhongkang's death, his sons succeeded to the throne.
The emperor died and his son Emperor Shaokang succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Shaokang died and his son Emperor Yu succeeded him.
Emperor Yu died and his son Emperor Huai succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Huai died and his son Di Mang succeeded to the throne.
Di Mang died and his son Di Xie succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Xie died, and his son Emperor Buhang succeeded him.
The emperor died, and his younger brother, the emperor, succeeded him.
The emperor passed away and his son, the emperor, succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Jin died, he made his son Kong Jia, the emperor's son who refused to surrender, as emperor. This was Emperor Kong Jia.
After Emperor Kong Jia succeeded to the throne, he was fond of ghosts and magical arts and engaged in promiscuous things.
Xiahou's power gradually declined, and the princes betrayed him one after another.
Two dragons descended from heaven, one female and one male. Kong Jia could not feed them, and he could not find anyone who could feed them.
The Tao Tang family had declined, and a descendant named Liu Lei learned how to tame dragons from someone who knew how to raise dragons, so he went to serve Kong Jia.
Kong Jia gave him the surname Yulong and asked him to accept the fiefdom of the descendants of the Wei family.
Later, the female dragon died, and Liu Lei secretly made meat sauce and presented it to Kong Jia.
After Xia, Kong Jia sent people to ask for the dragon. Liu Lei was afraid and ran away.
After Kong Jia's death, his son Di Gao succeeded to the throne.
After Di Gao's death, his son Di Fa succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Fa died, his son Emperor Lugui succeeded him, and this was Jie.
When Emperor Jie was in power, many princes had defected to Xia one after another since Kong Jia was in power. Jie did not practice virtue and used force to harm the officials, which made the officials unbearable.
Jie summoned Tang and imprisoned him in Xiatai, but later released him.
Tang practiced virtue and all the princes came to join him. Tang then led his troops to conquer Xia Jie. Xia Jie fled to Mingtiao and died in exile.
Jie said to people: I regret that I did not kill Tang in Xiatai, which caused me to end up like this.
In this way, Tang ascended to the position of emperor, replaced the Xia Dynasty, and took over the world.
Tang sealed the descendants of Xia, and in the Zhou Dynasty, sealed them in Qidi.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
太史公曰：禹为姒姓，其后分封，用国为姓，故有夏后氏、有扈氏、有男氏、斟寻氏、彤城氏、褒氏、费氏、杞氏、缯氏、辛氏、冥氏、斟、戈氏。
孔子正夏时，学者多传《夏小正》云。
自虞、夏时，贡赋备矣。
或言禹会诸侯江南，计功而崩，固葬焉，命曰会稽。
会稽者，会计也。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Yu's surname was Si, and his descendants were enfeoffed in various places and used the country's surname as their surname, so there are Xiahou surnames, Youhu surnames, Younan surnames, Zhexiu surnames, Tongcheng surnames, Bao surnames, Fei surnames, Qi surnames, Zhen surnames, Xin surnames, Ming surnames, and Zouge surnames.
It is said that Confucius once corrected the almanac of the Xia Dynasty, and many scholars passed down the "Xia Xiaozheng".
From the time of Yu Shun and Xia Yu, the regulations on paying tribute and paying taxes have been complete.
Some people say that Yu gathered the princes in the south of the Yangtze River. Because he died while assessing the merits of the princes, he was buried there. Therefore, Miao Mountain where Yu was buried was renamed Kuaiji Mountain.
Kuaiji means accounting.


