Chunk 0: 
original: 
后妃下元敬虞皇后豫章君明穆庾皇后成恭杜皇后
章太妃康献褚皇后穆章何皇后哀靖王皇后
废帝孝庾皇后简文宣郑太后简文顺王皇
后孝武文李太后孝武定王皇后安德陈太后安僖王皇后恭思褚皇后
元敬虞皇后，讳孟母，济阳外黄人也。
父豫，见《外戚传》。
帝为琅邪王，纳后为妃，无子。
永嘉六年薨，时年三十五。
帝为晋王，追尊为王后。
有司奏王后应别立庙。
令曰： 今宗庙未成，不宜更兴作，便修饰陵上屋以为庙。
太兴三年，册曰： 皇帝咨前琅邪王妃虞氏：朕祗顺昊天成命，用陟帝位，悼妃夙徂，徽音潜翳，御于家邦，靡所仪刑，阴教有亏，用伤于怀。
追号制谥，先王之典。
今遣使持节兼太尉万胜奉册赠皇后玺绶，祀以太牢。
魂而有灵，嘉兹宠荣。
乃祔于太庙，葬建平陵。
太宁初，明帝追怀母养之恩，赠豫妻王氏为云阝阳县君，从母散骑常侍新野王罕妻为平阳乡君。
豫章君荀氏，元帝宫人也。
初有宠，生明帝及琅邪王裒，由是为虞后所忌。
自以位卑，每怀怨望，为帝所谴，渐见疏薄。
及明帝即位，封建安君，别立第宅。
太宁元年，帝迎还台内，供奉隆厚。
及成帝立，尊重同于太后。
咸康元年薨。
诏曰： 朕少遭悯凶，慈训无禀，抚育之勤，建安君之仁也。
一旦薨殂，实思报复，永惟平昔，感痛哀摧。
其赠豫章郡君，别立庙于京都。
明穆庾皇后，讳文君，颍川鄢陵人也。父琛，见《外戚传》。
后性仁慈，美姿仪。
元帝闻之，聘为太子妃，以德行见重。
明帝即位，立为皇后。
册曰： 妃庾氏昔承明命，作嫔东宫，虔恭中馈，思媚轨则。
translation: 
Empress Xia Yuan Jing Yu, Yu Zhang Jun Ming, Empress Mu Yu became Gong Du Empress
Concubine Zhang, Queen Kang Xian, Queen Mu Zhanghe, Queen Aijing
The deposed emperor, Empress Xiaoyu, Jian Wenxuan, the Empress Dowager Zheng, Jian Wenshun, the king
Empress Xiaowuwen Li Empress Dowager Xiaowu Dingwang Empress Ande Chen Empress Dowager Anxi Wang Empress Gongsi Chu Empress
Queen Yuan Jingyu's name was Meng Mu, a native of Jiyang Waihuang.
His father's name is Yu Yu, and his deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
When Emperor Yuan was King Langxie, he married the queen as his concubine and had no sons.
He died in the sixth year of Yongjia at the age of thirty-five.
When Emperor Yuan became the king of Jin, he gave her the title of queen.
Officials reported that the queen should build another temple.
Emperor Yuan ordered: "The ancestral temple has not yet been completed, and it is inconvenient to build another one. The house above the mausoleum can be renovated and used as a temple."
In the third year of Taixing, the second book says: The emperor lamented the former Langxie Princess Yu: I respectfully obeyed the orders of God, and therefore ascended the throne of God. I mourn the past of the concubine, her good name has not been promoted, there are no etiquette and regulations to govern the country, and the education in the harem is not enough, so I feel sad.
The gift of the title Dingmi is an old code of the former kings.
Today, envoy Chijie and Taiwei Wan Sheng were sent to present a posthumous jade seal to the Queen and use Tailao as a sacrifice.
If the Queen's soul has a spirit, she should be honored.
So he was offered sacrifices to the Imperial Ancestral Temple and buried in Jianping Mausoleum.
During the Taining period, Emperor Ming commemorated his mother's kindness in raising her and gave Yuzhang's wife Wang as the queen of Qiuyang County. His aunt Sanqi often served as the wife of Sima Han, the king of Xinye, as the queen of Pingyang Township.
The Xun family of Yuzhang Jun was a palace member of Emperor Yuan.
After being favored at first, she gave birth to Emperor Ming and King Langxie Sima Sui, so she was hated by Empress Yu.
Because of his low status and constant resentment, he was condemned by Emperor Yuan and gradually became alienated and neglected.
When Emperor Ming came to the throne, he was granted the title of Jianxuanzhou and built another residence.
In the first year of Zuo Zhen's reign, Dandao welcomed her back to the palace and provided her with grand and generous supplies.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, he treated her with the same respect as the Queen Mother.
He died in the first year of Xiankang.
Shao Shu said: I suffered misfortune when I was young, but it was Jian Sairi who taught me lovingly and worked hard to raise me.
Once I pass away, I really want to repay the favor and will always miss the past and be sentimental and sad.
He was given the title of Yuzhang County Lord and built another temple in Kyoto.
Empress Muyu of the Ming Dynasty was named Wenjun and was a native of Yanling, Yingchuan. His father Yu Bi's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
The queen has a kind temperament and beautiful appearance.
After Emperor Yuan heard about it, he appointed her as the crown princess, and she was respected for her good virtues.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and became queen.
The book says: Concubine Yu previously followed the Holy Order and served as a concubine in the East Palace. She was respectful of women, loving and courteous.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
履信思顺，以成肃雍之道；正位闺房，以著协德之美。
朕夙罹不造，茕茕在疚。
群公卿士，稽之往代，佥以崇嫡明统，载在典谟，宜建长秋，以奉宗庙。
是以追述先志，不替旧命，使使持节兼太尉授皇后玺绶。
夫坤德尚柔，妇道承姑，崇粢盛之礼，敦螽斯之义，是以利在永贞，克隆堂基，母仪天下，潜暢阴教。
鉴于六列，考之篇籍，祸福无门，盛衰由人，虽休勿休。
其敬之哉，可不慎欤！
及成帝即位，尊后曰皇太后。
群臣奏：天子幼冲，宜依汉和熹皇后故事。
辞让数四，不得已而临朝摄万机。
后兄中书令亮管诏命，公卿奏事称皇太后陛下。
咸和元年，有司奏请追赠后父及夫人毌丘氏，后陈让不许，三请不从。
及苏峻作逆，京都倾覆，后见逼辱，遂以忧崩，时年三十二。
后即位凡六年。
其后帝孝思罔极，赠琛骠骑大将军、仪同三司，毌丘氏安陵县君。从母荀氏永宁县君，何氏建安县君。
亮表陈先志，让而不受。
成恭杜皇后，讳陵阳，京兆人，镇南将军预之曾孙也。
父乂，见《外戚传》。
成帝以后奕世名德，咸康二年备礼拜为皇后，即日入宫。
帝御太极前殿，群臣毕贺，昼漏尽，悬籥，百官乃罢，后少有姿色，然长犹无齿，有来求婚者辄中止。
及帝纳采之日，一夜齿尽生。
改宣城陵阳县为广阳县。
七年三月，后崩，年二十一。
外官五日一临，内官旦一入，葬讫止。
后在位六年，无子。
translation: 
Act faithfully and think obediently to achieve harmony; help to correct the order of the harem, so it has the reputation of harmony and harmony.
I have experienced misfortune in the past and was lonely as if I was sick.
The ministers have examined the past dynasties and found that the most important thing is to respect the direct relatives and distinguish the orthodoxy. It is recorded in the classics that the Queen's Palace should be built to worship the ancestral temple.
To recall the wishes of the late emperor, without abandoning the old orders, he sent envoy Chijie and Taiwei to present the seal and ribbon to the queen.
Women's morality advocates femininity, women's conduct should flatter their mother-in-law, respect the etiquette of sacrifices, and value the morality of having many children and grandchildren. Therefore, if you remain chaste forever, you can carry forward the royal family's legacy, become a role model for mothers in the world, and promote the education of the harem.
Drawing lessons from the Six Biographies and examining classics, we can see that good and bad fortunes are uncertain. The ups and downs depend on people. Although they are praised, they do not rely on themselves.
Be respectful, how can you not be cautious!
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he revered the queen as the empress dowager.
The ministers petitioned and said: The emperor is young and should follow the old rules of the Han Dynasty and Queen Xi.
The queen resigned many times and had no choice but to come to serve as regent.
The queen's brother Zhongshu ordered Likui to manage the edicts and orders. When the minister reported the matter, he called her Majesty the Empress Dowager.
In the first year of Xianhe's reign, relevant officials petitioned to posthumously gift the Queen's father and wife Danqiu, but Queen Chen refused to agree and refused to comply three times.
When Su Jun rebelled, Kyoto was overthrown, and the queen was forced and humiliated. She died of sorrow at the age of thirty-two.
The queen reigned for six years.
The emperor's thoughts and kindness were endless, and he gave posthumously to the queen's father, General Yu Chen, the Hsiaoqi General, and the Third Division of Yitong, to his mother, the Qiu Family Lord of Anling County, to his aunt, Bao Ya, the Lord of Yongning County, and to his aunt, Tandan, the Lord of Jian'an County.
The above table states the queen's will during her lifetime, and she will not accept it.
Queen Chenggongdu was named Lingyang, a native of Jingzhao, and the great-granddaughter of General Yuzhi of Zhennan.
His father became an emperor, and his deeds can be found in "The Biography of Wife's Relatives".
Because the empress's family was famous for their virtues, Emperor Cheng prepared a gift in the second year of Xiankang to appoint her as empress and entered the palace on the same day.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the Tai Chi front hall, all the ministers came to congratulate him. After daylight passed, it was time to lock the palace door and leave the officials. The queen was beautiful when she was young, but she still had no teeth when she grew up, and she gave up proposals midway.
On the day Emperor Cheng prepared a ceremony to marry her, the queen's teeth grew overnight.
Lingyang County in Xuancheng was changed to Guangyang County.
In March of the seventh year, the queen died at the age of twenty-one.
Officials outside the palace enter the mourning hall once every five days, and officials inside the palace enter the mourning hall once a day until the burial is completed.
The queen reigned for six years and had no children.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
先是，三吴女子相与簪白花，望之如素柰，传言天公织女死，为之著服，至是而后崩。
帝下诏曰： 吉凶典仪，诚宜备设。然丰约之度，亦当随时，况重壤之下，而崇饰无用邪！
今山陵之事，一从节俭，陵中唯洁扫而已，不得施涂车刍灵。
有司奏造凶门柏历及调挽郎，皆不许，又禁远近遣使，明年元会，有司奏废乐。
诏废管弦，奏金石如故。
孝武帝立，宁康二年，以后母裴氏为广德县君。
裴氏名穆，长水校尉绰孙，太傅主簿遐女，太尉王夷甫外孙。
中表之美，高于当世。
遐随东海王越遇害，无子，唯穆渡江，遂享荣庆，立第南掖门外，世所谓杜姥宅云。
章太妃周氏以选入成帝宫，有宠，生哀帝及海西公。
始拜为贵人。
哀帝即位，诏有司议贵人位号，太尉桓温议宜称夫人，尚书仆射江虨议应曰太夫人，诏崇为皇太妃，仪服与太后同。
又诏 朝臣不为太妃敬，合礼典不。
太常江逌议 位号不极，不应尽敬 。
兴宁元年薨。
帝欲服重，江虨启应缌麻三月。
诏欲降为期年，虨又启 厌屈私情，所以上严祖考 ，帝从之。
康献褚皇后，讳蒜子，河南阳翟人也。
父裒，见《外戚传》。
后聪明有器识，少以名家入为琅邪王妃。
及康帝即位，立为皇后，封母谢氏为寻阳乡君。
及穆帝即位，尊后曰皇太后。
时帝幼冲，未亲国政。
领司徒蔡谟等上奏曰： 嗣皇诞哲岐嶷，继承天统，率土宅心，兆庶蒙赖。
陛下体兹坤道，训隆文母。
昔涂山光夏，简狄熙殷，实由宣哲，以隆休祚。
translation: 
Before that, women in the Sanwu area wore white flowers in their hair when they were together, which looked like white sand fruit flowers. It was said that the Weaver Girl in the sky died and she was dressed in mourning clothes. At this time, the queen passed away.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict saying: Ceremonies for good and bad things should indeed be carried out; however, the standard of abundance or simplicity should also conform to the current situation. Moreover, it is useless to build on a large scale deep underground!
Nowadays, everything about the mausoleum should be kept simple. The mausoleum should be clean. It is not allowed to bury people with painted carts and straw.
Relevant officials asked for the construction of the evil gate Baili and the appointment of the concubine, but they did not agree. It is also forbidden to send envoys to far and near places. The following year at the New Year's Day meeting, the relevant officials requested that the music be abolished.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict to abolish orchestral music, but Jinshi music was still played.
Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne, and in the second year of Ningkang, he named Pei, the queen's mother, the Queen of Guangde County.
Pei's name is Mu. She is the granddaughter of Pei Chuo, the captain of Changshui School, the daughter of Pei Xia, the chief regent of Taifu, and the granddaughter of Wang Yifu, the captain of Taifu.
The prominence of the cousin relationship was famous at the time.
Pei Xia followed Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, and was killed, leaving him without a son. Only Pei Mu crossed the river, so he enjoyed the glory and built a house outside Nanye Gate, which is also known as Du Lao's house.
Zhang Taifei Zhou was elected to the Chengdi Palace and was favored. She gave birth to Emperor Ai and Duke Haixi.
Start as a noble person.
When Emperor Ai came to the throne, he asked the relevant officials to discuss the names and titles of nobles. Taiwei Huanwen thought that he should be called madam, and Shangshu servant She Jiangbu thought that he should be called Taifu. Emperor Ai of Xia Shao honored her as the imperial concubine, and her ceremonial attire was the same as that of the empress dowager.
He also wrote to Shao Shu and said: If the court minister is disrespectful to the concubine, does it violate the laws and etiquette?
Taichang Jiang Di commented: "Famous position is not the highest, so we should not be extremely respectful."
In the first year of Xingning, the concubine passed away.
Emperor Ai planned to undergo heavy mourning, so Jiang Diaozou ordered him to take gill anesthesia for three months.
Emperor Ai went to Shao and planned to change the period to one year. Jiang Fan asked Jiang Bang to express his feelings of grievance. It was because he respected his ancestors, so Emperor Ai obeyed him.
Queen Kangxianchu was named Suanzi, and she was from Yangzhai, Henan.
His father Kang Pei's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
The queen was smart, knowledgeable, and was selected as Princess Langxie as a young lady from a well-known family.
Emperor Kang ascended the throne, made her the queen, and named her mother Xie Ya the monarch of Xunyang Township.
Emperor Mu ascended the throne and honored the queen as the empress dowager.
At that time, the emperor was young and had not yet taken charge of the government.
The leader, Situ Cai Mo, and others reported: The emperor who ascends the throne is smart from birth, inherits the imperial lineage, returns home at home, and the people rely on him.
Your Majesty understands the ways of women, and his teachings are better than those of the mother of virtue.
In the past, the Tushan clan made the Xia Dynasty prosperous, and Jian Di made the Yin and Shang Dynasties prosperous. It was actually because they showed sages and made the country prosperous.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
伏惟陛下德侔二妫，淑美《关雎》，临朝摄政，以宁天下。
今社稷危急，兆庶悬命，臣等章惶，一日万机，事运之期，天禄所钟，非复冲虚高让之日。
汉和熹、顺烈，并亦临朝，近明穆故事，以为先制。
臣等不胜悲怖，谨伏地上请。
乞陛下上顺祖宗，下念臣吏，推公弘道，以协天人，则万邦承庆，群黎更生。
太后诏曰： 帝幼冲，当赖群公卿土将顺匡救，以酬先帝礼贤之意，且是旧德世济之美，则莫重之命不坠，祖宗之基有奉，是其所以欲正位于内而已。
所奏恳到，形于翰墨，执省未究，以悲以惧。
先后允恭谦抑，思顺坤道，所以不距群情，固为国计。
岂敢执守冲暗，以违先旨。
辄敬从所奏。
于是临朝称制。
有司奏，谢夫人既封，荀、卞二夫人亦应追赠，皆后之前母也。
太后不许。
太常殷融议依郑玄义，卫将军裒在宫庭则尽臣敬，太后归宁之日自如家人之礼。
太后诏曰： 典礼诚所未详，如所奏，是情所不能安也，更详之。
征西将军翼、南中郎尚议谓 父尊尽于一家，君敬重于天下，郑玄义合情礼之中 。
太后从之。
自后朝臣皆敬裒焉。
帝既冠，太后诏曰： 昔遭不造，帝在幼冲，皇绪之微，眇若赘旒。
百辟卿士率遵前朝，劝喻摄政。
以社稷之重，先代成义，僶俛敬从，弗遑固守。
仰凭七庙之灵，俯仗群后之力，帝加元服，礼成德备，当阳亲览，临御万国。
今归事反政，一依旧典。
于是居崇德宫，手诏群公曰： 昔以皇帝幼冲，从群后之议，既以暗弱，又频丁极艰，衔恤历祀，沈忧在疚。
司徒亲尊德重，训救其弊，王室之不坏，实公是恁。
帝既备兹冠礼，而四海未一，五胡叛逆，豺狼当路，费役日兴，百姓困苦。
愿诸君子思量远算，戮力一心，辅翼幼主，匡救不逮。
未亡人永归别宫，以终余齿。
仰惟家国，故以一言托怀。
translation: 
We believe that His Majesty's virtue is comparable to that of Er Yan, and his beauty is better than that of the concubine in "Guan Ju". He should serve as regent to bring peace to the world.
Nowadays, the country is in crisis and the fate of the people is uncertain. We are panic-stricken. There are many important national events in one day. The timing and deadline of events are what God values ​​when blessing. Now is no longer a day of being noble and humble.
He Xi and Shun Lie of the Han Dynasty both attended the court and listened to the government. In modern times, Queen Mu of the Ming Dynasty listened to the government, which is the system of ancestors.
We were very sad and frightened, so we knelt down and begged respectfully.
I beg your Majesty to obey the wishes of the ancestors above and to care about the ministers and officials below, and to promote morality with a public heart in order to comply with the will of God and the wishes of people. In this way, the world will celebrate and the people will be reborn.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is young and should rely on his ministers to help him correct his faults with his virtues, in order to repay the late emperor's kindness in treating others with courtesy. Moreover, the benefits of old virtues and current salvation are not more important than being able to prevent destiny and have people who flatter the ancestors' inheritance, so the throne must be confirmed in the palace.
The memorial is sincere and thoughtful, and it is revealed in the pen and ink. Even before I read it, I felt sad and scared.
The queen of the previous dynasty was honest, respectful, modest, and obedient to women. The reason why she did not refuse the invitations of the ministers was for the sake of the country.
How dare I stick to the young emperor and go against the late emperor's will.
He listened respectfully.
So he came to the court to listen to the government.
Relevant officials reported that Mrs. Xie had been granted the title, and that Mrs. Xun and Bian should also be granted titles posthumously. They were both ex-wives of the queen's father.
The Queen Mother did not allow it.
Taichang Yin Rong's memorial was based on Zheng Xuan's etiquette. General Chu Su of the Wei Dynasty respected the Queen Mother according to the court etiquette, and the Queen Mother followed the etiquette at home when she went home to visit relatives.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: I really don't know the ceremony. If it is exactly as it is performed, then I will not be able to rest assured because of family ties. We should discuss it again.
Sima Yi, the general who conquered the West, and Sima Shang, the Nanzhong Lang, reported that respect for the father is limited to one family, and respect for the king is more important than the world. Zheng Xuan's etiquette is reasonable.
The Queen Mother obeyed.
From then on, all the ministers in the court respected Chu Ai.
After the emperor was crowned, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: In the past, misfortune occurred. The emperor was young and the royal career was in decline, just like the jade beads hanging from the crown.
The princes and ministers all followed the previous dynasty and persuaded me to take over as regent.
Because the country is important and the past generations have set examples, I try my best to obey and have no time to stick to the ways of women.
Relying on the gods of the seven temples and relying on the power of the princes, the emperor performed the crowning ceremony. With the etiquette completed and his virtues complete, he should face south to handle government affairs and rule all nations.
Now that I have returned political power, there are still rules and regulations.
So he stayed in Chongde Palace and issued an edict to the ministers: In the past, because the emperor was young, he obeyed the advice of the princes. Because of my lack of ability and frequent difficulties, I sacrificed my late father and was deeply worried about mourning.
Situ was highly respected and pointed out that the shortcomings of the country should be corrected. The royal family did not decline. It was really thanks to Situ.
The emperor has completed the crowning ceremony, but the world has not yet been unified. The five barbarians are rebellious, the wolves are in power, the wealth and labor are increasing day by day, and the people are in poverty.
I hope that all gentlemen will consider the long term and work together to assist and protect the young emperor and correct the shortcomings.
I will return to another palace forever and spend the rest of my life.
It's all for the country, I express my thoughts with these words.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及哀帝、海西公之世，太后复临朝称制。
桓温之废海西公也，太后方在佛屋烧香，内侍启云： 外有急奏 ，太后乃出。
尚倚户前视奏数行，乃曰 我本自疑此 ，至半便止，索笔答奏云： 未亡人罹此百忧，感念存没，心焉如割。
温始呈诏草，虑太后意异，悚动流汗，见于颜色。
及诏出，温大喜。
简文帝即位，尊后为崇德太后。
及帝崩，孝武帝幼冲，桓温又薨。
群臣启曰： 王室多故，祸艰仍臻，国忧始周，复丧元辅，天下惘然，若无攸济。
主上虽圣资奇茂，固天诞纵。
而春秋尚富，如在谅闇，蒸蒸之思，未遑庶事。
伏惟陛下德应坤厚，宣慈圣善，遭家多艰，临朝亲览。
光大之美，化洽在昔，讴歌流咏，播溢无外。
虽有莘熙殷，妊姒隆周，未足以喻，是以五谋克从，人鬼同心，仰望来苏，悬心日月。
夫随时之义，《周易》所尚，宁固社稷，大人之任。
伏愿陛下抚综万机，厘和政道，以慰祖宗，以安兆庶。
不胜忧国喁喁至诚。
太后诏曰： 王室不幸，仍有艰屯。
览省启事，感增悲叹。
内外诸君并以主上春秋冲富，加蒸蒸之慕，未能亲览，号令宜有所由。
苟可安社稷，利天下，亦岂有所执，辄敬从所启。
但暗昧之阙，望尽弼谐之道。
于是太后复临朝。
帝既冠，乃诏曰： 皇帝婚冠礼备，遐迩宅心，宜当阳亲览，缉熙惟始。
今归政事，率由旧典。
于是复称崇德太后。
太元九年，崩于显阳殿，年六十一，在位凡四十年。
太后于帝为从嫂，朝议疑其服。
translation: 
When Emperor Ai and Duke Haixi were in power, the Queen Mother came to serve as regent.
When Dan Tan was deposing Yiyou Gong, the Queen Mother was burning incense in the Buddhist hall. The chamberlain reported that there was an urgent memorial outside, and the Queen Mother came out.
He leaned against the door and read a few lines of the memorial, then said that I had such doubts. I stopped reading halfway through, and wanted to write a reply to the memorial: I have experienced all kinds of sorrows, and when I think of the living and the dead, my heart is like a knife.
When Huan Wen first submitted the draft of the edict, he was worried that the Queen Mother would have objections, and he was afraid that he would sweat, and his panic showed on his face.
When the edict came out, Huan Wen was overjoyed.
Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne and honored the Queen Mother as Queen Mother Chongde.
When the emperor died, Emperor Xiaowu was young, and Huan Wen died again.
The officials began to report: The royal family is troubled, and there are frequent disasters and funerals. Just after the national mourning, the prime minister died again. The people of the world are frustrated and seem to have no sustenance.
Although the emperor was very wise, it was God's will that made him so.
However, he was still young and was in mourning. He was so long that he could not care about state affairs.
His Majesty's virtues are in line with women's conduct, he is benevolent, wise and kind. When the country is in trouble, he personally handles government affairs when he comes to court.
The reputation of Guangda National Destiny was deeply rooted in the hearts of the people in the past, and people spread false accusations and praises to all directions.
Even if Xin revitalized the Yin and Shang Dynasties, and pregnant women revitalized the Zhou Dynasty, they are not enough metaphors. Therefore, they can be unified, people and ghosts are united, looking forward to the recovery of the national destiny, and thinking about the emperor and empress.
Complying with the principles of heaven and man is what the "Book of Changes" advocates. Peace and stability of the country is an important task for adults.
May your Majesty manage state affairs and adjust political principles, so as to comfort the ancestors and appease the people.
We cannot express our sincere concern for our country.
The Queen Mother issued an edict saying: The royal family is unfortunate and has constant difficulties.
After reading the memorial, I felt even more sad.
Ministers at home and abroad all believed that the emperor was too young and grieved to handle government affairs personally, so the orders should have a source.
If it can stabilize the country and benefit the world, what else is there to insist on? Just obey the minister's memorial respectfully.
However, if there are any ambiguities or omissions, I hope the ministers will try their best to help point them out.
So the Queen Mother once again came to the court to take charge.
After the emperor's crown ceremony, the Queen Mother sent a letter to Shao saying: The emperor's wedding ceremony and crown ceremony are complete, and he can live and work in peace and contentment far and near. He should face south and handle government affairs. The bright future begins with sending the emperor.
Now I return to political affairs, and everything will be in accordance with the old regulations.
So she was also called the Queen Mother of Chongde.
In the ninth year of Taiyuan, the Queen Mother passed away in Xianyang Palace at the age of sixty-one. She reigned for a total of forty years.
The Queen Mother was the emperor's cousin-in-law, and the court had doubts when discussing the funeral system.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
太学博士徐藻议曰： 资父事君而敬同。
又《礼》云 其夫属父道者，妻皆母道也 ，则夫属君道，妻亦后道矣。
服后以齐，母之义也。
鲁讥逆祀，以明尊卑。
今上躬奉康、穆、哀皇及靖后之祀，致敬同于所天，岂可敬之以君道，而服废于本亲。
谓应齐衰期。
从之。
穆章何皇后，讳法倪，庐江灊人也。父准，见《外戚传》。
以名家膺选。
升平元年八月，下玺书曰： 皇帝咨前太尉参军何琦：混元资始，肇经人伦，爰及夫妇，以奉天地宗庙社稷。
谋于公卿，咸以宜率由旧典。
今使使持节太常彪之、宗正综，以礼纳采。
琦答曰： 前太尉参军、都乡侯粪土臣何琦稽首顿首再拜。
皇帝嘉命，访婚陋族，备数采择。
臣从祖弟故散骑侍郎准之遗女，未闲教训，衣履若如人。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
又使兼太保、武陵王晞，兼太尉、中领军洽，持节奉册立为皇后。
后无子。
哀帝即位，称穆皇后，居永安宫。
桓玄篡位，移后入司徒府。
路经太庙，后停舆恸哭，哀感路人。
玄闻而怒曰： 天下禅代常理，何预何氏女子事耶！
乃降后为零陵县君，与安帝俱西，至巴陵。
及刘裕建义，殷仲文奉后还京都，下令曰： 戎车屡警，黎元阻饥。
而饍御丰靡，岂与百姓同其俭约。
减损供给，勿令游过。
后时以远还，欲奉拜陵庙。
有司以寇难未平，奏停。
元兴三年崩，年六十六，在位凡四十八年。
translation: 
Xu Zao, a doctor of Taixue, said: The degree of respect for serving one's father and for the king is the same.
Moreover, the "Etiquette" says that when the husband is ranked in the father's generation during the funeral, the wife should be treated as the mother's generation, so the husband should be treated as the king, and the wife should also be treated as the queen.
To serve the Queen Mother is to treat her like a mother.
The gentleman of Lu ridiculed the reverse order of sacrifices in order to clarify the superiority and inferiority.
Nowadays, the emperor offers sacrifices to Emperor Kang, Emperor Mu, Emperor Ai and Queen Jing, and the tribute is like the relationship between monarch and minister. How can he be as respectful as he is to the monarch, and the system of mourning clothes has been abolished because of the relationship between relatives.
I think it should be served for one year.
Heeded his advice.
Empress Mu Zhanghe named Fa Ni and sneaked into Lujiang. Father He Zhun's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Wife's Relatives".
He should be chosen to enter the palace if he comes from a famous family.
In August of the first year of Shengping, the emperor wrote a letter saying: The emperor consulted He Qi, the former Taiwei who joined the army: When the heaven and earth were formed, the relationship between people began to be formulated, so couples were created to worship the heaven and earth ancestral temple.
After discussing with the ministers, they all agreed that the old regulations should be followed.
Now we send envoys Zhijie Taichang Biaozhi and Zongzheng Sima Zong to accept them with gifts.
He Qi replied: The former Taiwei joined the army, and He Qi, the junior minister of the Duxiang Marquis, performed the rite of inspection and kowtowed before bowing.
The emperor issued a beautiful order to search for marriage in my family and prepared several people for selection.
My cousin's younger brother was the daughter-in-law of the late Sanqi Minister He Zhun. She was constantly tutored and dressed like a normal person.
Respectfully and solemnly flatter the old rules and regulations.
He also sent Sima Xi, who was also the Taibao and King of Wuling, and Sima Qia, who was also the Taiwei and the leader of the army, to bring a book and legislate Ni as the queen.
The queen has no sons.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and was called Queen Mu, living in Yong'an Palace.
Huan Xuan usurped the throne and moved the queen to Situ's mansion.
Passing by the Imperial Ancestral Temple, the Queen stopped the car and burst into tears, which moved passers-by with her sadness.
When Huan Xuan heard about it, he became angry and said: "It is common for the world to give up and replace people. What does it have to do with a woman named Bao!"
So the queen was demoted to Lingling and titled day. He and Baotong traveled west together and arrived at Danyi.
After setting up a flag of justice, Yin Zhongwen served the queen and returned to Kyoto. The queen ordered: "Wars are frequent and the people are suffering and hungry."
How can we be frugal and frugal with the people when our meals, trains, and clothes are abundant and wasteful?
Reduce supply and don't play around with the situation.
The queen returned to Beijing from a distant place and planned to visit the mausoleum.
The officials concerned requested to cancel the memorial because the enemy bandits have not yet calmed down.
He died in the third year of Yuanxing at the age of sixty-six and reigned for forty-eight years.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
哀靖王皇后，讳穆之，太原晋阳人也。司徒左长史濛之女也。
后初为琅邪王妃。
哀帝即位，立为皇后，追赠母爰氏为安国乡君。
后在位三年，无子。
兴宁二年崩。
废帝孝庾皇后，讳道怜，颍川焉陵人也。父冰，自有传。
初为东海王妃。
及帝即位，立为皇后。
太和六年崩，葬于敬平陵。
帝废为海西公，追贬后曰海西公夫人。
太元十一年，海西公薨于吴，又以后合葬于吴陵。
简文宣郑太后，讳阿春，河南荥阳人也。世为冠族。
祖合，临济令。
父恺，字祖元，安丰太守。
后少孤，无兄弟，唯姊妹四人，后最长。
先适渤海田氏，生一男而寡，依于舅濮阳吴氏。
元帝为丞相，敬后先崩，将纳吴氏女为夫人。
后及吴氏女并游后园，或见之，言于帝曰： 郑氏女虽嫠，贤于吴氏远矣。
建武元年，纳为琅邪王夫人。甚有宠。
后虽贵幸，而恆有忧色。
帝问其故，对曰： 妾有妹，中者已适长沙王褒，余二妹未有所适，恐姊为人妾，无复求者。
帝因从容谓刘隗曰： 郑氏二妹，卿可为求佳对，使不失旧。
隗举其从子佣娶第三者，以小者适汉中李氏，皆得旧门。
帝召王褒为尚书郎，以悦后意。
后生琅邪悼王、简文帝、寻阳公主。
帝称尊号，后虽为夫人，诏太子及东海、武陵王皆母事之。
帝崩，后称建平国夫人。
咸和元年薨，简文帝时为琅邪王，制服重。
有司以王出继，宜降所生，国臣不能匡正，奏免国相诸葛颐。
王上疏曰： 亡母生临臣国，没留国第，臣虽出后，亦无所厌，则私情得叙。
昔敬后崩，孝王已出继，亦还服重。
translation: 
Queen Aijing's name was Kuizhi, and she was willing to buy a house on her left. The daughter of Situ Zuo Changshi Wang Sui.
The Queen was originally the concubine of King Fallen Mo.
Saitong ascended the throne, made her queen, and posthumously gave her mother Aidan the title of Saiken Winged Star.
The queen reigned for three years and had no sons.
Xingkong died in the second year of his life.
The deposed Emperor Xiaoyu and Empress Xiaoyu were famous for their reputation, and their titles fell into confusion. My father is in a hurry, and this book has been passed down.
At first she was the concubine of King Sehai.
The deposed emperor ascended the throne and made her queen.
He died in the sixth year of Taihe and was buried in Jingping Mausoleum.
After the emperor was deposed as the Duke of Haixi, he demoted her to the title of Mrs. Haixi.
In the fifty-first year of Tai Dynasty, Duke Dangyou died in Cheng, and the queen and Duke Guyou were buried together in Wuling.
The brief text states that the Empress Dowager Zheng's name was Achun, and she was from Xingyang, Henan. It has been a wealthy family in the past dynasties.
Grandfather Yinhe was born in Linji Order.
His father, Zheng Kai, whose courtesy name was Zuyuan, was the prefect of Anfeng.
The queen was orphaned when she was young. She had no brothers and only four sisters. The queen was the eldest.
She first married the Tian family in Bohai, became a widow after giving birth to a boy, and went to live with her uncle Wu's family in Puyang.
When Emperor Yuan was the prime minister, he wanted to marry Wu's daughter as his wife after he passed away first.
The queen and Wu's daughter were visiting the back garden together. Someone saw it and said to the emperor: Although the daughter who returned from the tomb is a widow, she is much more virtuous than Chengdan's daughter.
In the first year of Jianwu, he married the wife of King Langxie and was very favored.
Although the queen is noble and favored, she often looks worried.
The emperor asked her why and replied: I have younger sisters, the middle one is married to Wang Bao of Changsha, and I have two younger sisters who are still unmarried. I am afraid that my elder sisters will become concubines and there will be no more suitors.
The emperor then calmly said to Liu Wei: "Zheng's two sisters, you can find good spouses for them so that they will not lose their former prominence."
Liu Wei recommended his nephew Liu Mai to marry his second sister, and the youngest to marry the Li family in Hanzhong. They all went to the family of aristocratic families.
The emperor summoned Wang Bao as minister to please the queen.
The queen gave birth to King Langye Mou, Emperor Jianwen, and Princess Xunyang.
King Langxie proclaimed himself emperor, and although the queen was his wife, the emperor ordered the prince, King Shuhai and King Wuling to serve her as a mother.
After the emperor died, the queen was called Mrs. Jianpingguo.
In the first year of Xianhe, the queen passed away. Emperor Jianwen was the king of Langxie at that time and was mourned.
Relevant officials believed that King Langxie had passed away, and the funeral ceremony for his biological mother should be downgraded. The ministers could not correct the situation, so they petitioned to remove the Prime Minister Zhuge Yi.
King Langye Shangshu said: My deceased mother was in my country when she was alive and left the country's mansion when she died. Although I became a successor, there is no reason to mourn and surrender, so that the love between mother and son can be expressed.
In the past, when Empress Jing passed away, Prince Xiao had already passed away, so she still had to mourn.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
此则明比，臣所宪章也。
明穆皇后不夺其志，乃徙琅邪王为会稽王，追号后曰会稽太妃。
及简文帝即位，未及追尊。
临崩，封皇子道子为琅邪王，领会稽国，奉太妃祀。
太元十九年，孝武帝下诏曰： 会稽太妃文母之德，徽音有融，诞载圣明，光延于晋。
先帝追尊圣善，朝议不一，道以疑屈。
朕述遵先志，常惕于心。
今仰奉遗旨，依《阳秋》二汉孝怀皇帝故事，上太妃尊号曰简文太后。
于是立庙于太庙路西，陵曰嘉平。
时群臣希旨，多谓郑太后应配食于元帝者。
帝以问太子前率徐邈，邈曰： 臣案《阳秋》之义，母以子贵。
鲁隐尊桓母，别考仲子之宫而不配食于惠庙。
又平素之时，不伉俪于先帝，至于子孙，岂可为祖考立配？
其崇尊尽礼，由于臣子，故得称太后，陵庙备典。
若乃祔葬配食，则义所不可。
从之。
简文顺王皇后，讳简姬，太原晋阳人也。父遐，见《外戚传》。
后以冠族，初为会稽王妃，生子道生，为世子。
永和四年，母子并失帝意，俱被幽废，后遂以忧薨。
咸安二年，孝武帝即位，追尊曰顺皇后，合葬高平陵，追赠后父遐特进、光禄大夫，加散骑常侍。
孝武文李太后，讳陵容，本出微贱。
始简文帝为会稽王，有三子，俱夭。
自道生废黜，献王早世，其后诸姬绝孕将十年。
帝令卜者扈谦筮之，曰： 后房中有一女，当育二贵男，其一终盛晋室。
时徐贵人生新安公主，以德美见宠。
帝常冀之有娠，而弥年无子，会有道士许迈者，朝臣时望多称其得道。
帝从容问焉，答曰： 迈是好山水人，本无道术，斯事岂所能判！
但殿下德厚庆深，宜隆奕世之绪，当从扈谦之言，以存广接之道。
帝然之，更加采纳。
又数年无子，乃令善相者召诸爱妾而示之，皆云非其人，又悉以诸婢媵示焉。
时后为宫人，在织坊中，形长而色黑，宫人皆谓之昆仑。
既至，相者惊云： 此其人也。
帝以大计，召之侍寝。
后数梦两龙枕膝，日月入怀，意以为吉祥，向侪类说之，帝闻而异焉，遂生孝武帝及会稽文孝王、鄱阳长公主。
及孝武帝初即位，尊为淑妃。
太元三年，进为贵人，九年，又进为夫人。
十二年，加为皇太妃，仪服一同太后。
十九年，会稽王道子启： 母以子贵，庆厚礼崇。
伏惟皇太妃纯德光大，休祐攸钟，启嘉祚于圣明，嗣徽音于上列。
虽幽显同谋，而称谓未尽，非所以仰述圣心，允答天人。
宜崇正名号，详案旧典。
八月辛巳，帝临轩，遣兼太保刘耽尊为皇太后，称崇训宫。
安帝即位，尊为太皇太后。
隆安四年，崩于含章殿。
translation: 
This is a clear precedent that I should follow.
Queen Mingmu did not force him to change his mind, so she appointed King Langxie as King of Kuaiji and posthumously named the Queen as Princess of Kuaiji.
Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne and would have time to add titles in the future.
When he was about to die, he named the prince Daozi the king of Langxie, led the country of Kuaiji, and offered sacrifices to the concubine.
In the 19th year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu issued an edict saying: Concubine Kuaiji is the mother of virtue and virtue, with a harmonious sound of virtue, full of sage wisdom, and illumination of the Jin Dynasty.
The late emperor gave the wise and kind-hearted concubine Kuaiji an additional honorary title. The court's opinions were inconsistent, and the Tao was suspected of being distorted.
I stated that I would follow the late Emperor's ambition and always warned him in my heart.
Today, in accordance with the "Spring and Autumn Annals", the Han Dynasty and the past practices of Emperor Xiaohuai, the concubine is given the title of Empress Dowager Jian Wenxuan.
So a temple was built on the west side of Taimiao Road, and the mausoleum was called Jiaping.
At that time, in order to cater to the emperor's will, the officials believed that Empress Dowager Zheng should be sacrificed to Emperor Yuan.
The emperor asked Xu Miao about this, and Xu Miao said: I think the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that a mother becomes noble because of her son.
Duke Yin of Lu respected Duke Huan's mother and built a separate palace for Zhongzi instead of sharing it with Hui Temple.
Moreover, in the past, Empress Dowager Zheng was not the wife of the late emperor, so how could the descendants establish a first wife for their ancestors?
Respect has reached the extreme. Because of the ministers, she can be called the Queen Mother, and the ceremony of the mausoleum and temple is complete.
If they are buried together and sacrificed, it is not allowed by the righteousness and etiquette.
Complied with him.
Queen Jian Wenshun's name is Jian Ji, a native of Jinyang, Taiyuan. His father Wang Xia's deeds can be found in "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Because the queen came from a distinguished family, she was originally the princess of Kuaiji. She gave birth to a son, Daosheng, who was established as the prince.
In the fourth year of Yonghe, both mother and son lost the emperor's favor and were both imprisoned and deposed. The queen died of depression.
In the second year of Xian'an, Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne and was given the additional honorary title of Queen Shun. They were buried together in Gaoping Mausoleum. They were posthumously presented to the Queen's father Wang Xia Tejin and Dr. Guanglu, and were granted the title of Sanqi Changshi.
Empress Dowager Li Xiaowuwen was named Lingrong and came from a humble background.
At first Emperor Jian Wen was the king of Kuaiji and had three sons, all of whom died in infancy.
Since Daosheng was deposed and King Xian died prematurely, all the concubines have not been pregnant for nearly ten years.
The emperor ordered the soothsayer Hu Qian to divine for this purpose. Hu Qian said: There is a woman in the back room who will be able to give birth to two rich boys, one of whom will eventually prosper and advance to the imperial family.
At that time, Xu Guisheng gave birth to Princess Xin'an, who was favored because of her good virtues.
The emperor often hoped that she would become pregnant, but she remained childless. It happened that there was a Taoist priest named Xu Mai. The ministers of the court and celebrities at that time said that he had attained Taoism.
The emperor asked him calmly and replied: I am a person who likes mountains and rivers. I have no Taoism. How can I judge such a thing!
However, His Highness's great virtue and good fortune should lead to the prosperity of his children. He should listen to Hu Qian's words and broaden the way to pass on the family line.
The emperor thought he was right and adopted more concubines.
After a few years, he had no son, so he ordered a person who was good at fortune-telling to summon all his concubines to show him. If none of them were chosen, he summoned all the maids and concubines to show him.
At that time, the queen was a palace servant. She was tall and dark-faced in the textile workshop, and the palace maids called her "Kunlun".
After being summoned, the physiognomist said in surprise: This is the person.
The emperor summoned her to serve him while he slept.
The queen dreamed several times of two dragons resting on her knees and the sun and moon falling into her arms. She thought it was auspicious and told the story to similar people. The emperor was surprised when he heard about it. After that, he gave birth to Emperor Xiaowu, King Wenxiao of Kuaiji, and the eldest princess of Poyang.
Emperor Xiaowu had just ascended the throne and respected her as Concubine Shu.
In the third year of Taiyuan, he was promoted to a nobleman. In the ninth year, she was promoted to wife.
In the twelfth year, she became the imperial concubine, and the ceremonial dress was exactly the same as that of the empress dowager.
In the 19th year, King Daozi of Kuaiji declared: "Mothers value their sons, and they are rich in blessings and gifts."
I believe that the virtue of the Crown Princess shines everywhere, and the blessing of her virtue has been gathered for a long time. She has begun to have good fortune in the holy light, and has inherited the sound of virtue from her ancestors.
Although subtle or prominent are based on the same consideration, the title is not respectful to the extreme and cannot express respect for the Sacred Heart. Unable to answer the gods.
The name should be corrected and the details should be in accordance with the old regulations.
In the eighth month of Xinsi, the emperor came to the palace and sent Liu Danzun, the concubine and Taibao, as the empress dowager and called Chongxun Palace.
Emperor An ascended the throne and honored her as the Empress Dowager.
In the fourth year of Long'an, he died in Hanzhang Hall.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
朝议疑其服制，左仆射何澄、右仆射王雅、尚书车胤、孔安国、祠部郎徐广等议曰： 太皇太后名位允正，体同皇极，理制备尽，情礼兼申。
《阳秋》之义，母以子贵，既称夫人，礼服从正。
故成风显夫人之号，文公服三年之丧。
子于父母之所生，体尊义重。
且礼祖不厌孙，固宜追服无屈，而缘情立制。
若嫌明文不存，则疑斯从重，谓应同于为祖母后齐衰三年。
从之。
皇后及百官皆服齐衰期，永安皇后一举哀。
于是设庐于西堂，凶仪施于神兽门，葬修平陵，神主祔于宣太后庙。
孝武定王皇后，讳法慧，哀靖皇后之侄也。父蕴，见《外戚传》。
初，帝将纳后，访于公卿。
于时蕴子恭以弱冠见仆射谢安，安深敬重之。
既而谓人曰： 昔毛嘉耻于魏朝，杨骏几倾晋室。
若帝纳后，有父者，唯廕望如王蕴乃可。
既而访蕴女，容德淑令，乃举以应选。
宁康三年，中军将军桓冲等奏曰： 臣闻天地之道，盖相须而化成；帝后之德，必相协而政隆。
然后品物流形，彝伦攸叙，灵根长固，本枝百世。
天人同致，莫不由此。
是以涂山作俪，而夏族以熙；妊姒配周，而姬祚以昌。
今长秋将建，宜时简择。
伏闻试守晋陵太守王蕴女，天性柔顺，四业允备。
且盛德之胄，美善先积。
臣等参议，可以配德乾元，恭承宗庙，徽音六宫，母仪天下。
于是帝始纳焉。
封蕴妻刘氏为乐平乡君。
后性嗜酒骄妒，帝深患之。
translation: 
Discussions in the imperial court had doubts about the system of mourning clothes. He Cheng from Zuo Pushe, Wang Ya from You Pushe, Shangshu Cheyin, Kong Anguo, and Xuguang from the Ancestral Department said: The title of the Empress Dowager is appropriate, the system is like that of an emperor, the etiquette is complete, and the emotions are upheld.
The principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that mother is more valuable than her son. Since she is called a lady, mourning clothes should be orthodox.
Chengfeng was so famous as his wife that Duke Wen spent three years in mourning for her.
Children have a deep affection for their parents' birth, body, and dignity.
Moreover, honoring ancestors with courtesy does not disparage the grandchildren. Of course, we should increase the level of mourning clothes so as not to be aggrieved, and establish a system based on human circumstances.
If there is no explicit provision, and there are doubts, the mourning period should be severe. We think it should be the same as mourning for the grandmother, and the mourning period should be three years.
Complied with them.
The queen and all the officials all served for one year, and Queen Yong'an mourned together.
So a hut was set up in Youtang, a funeral was held in Kongzhumeng, he was buried in Xiuzuo, and the god was sacrificed in the Empress Dowager Xuan Temple.
Queen Xiaowuding's name was Fahui, and she was the niece of Queen Aijing. His father Wang Yun's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
At the beginning, the emperor was about to get married and asked the ministers.
At that time, Wang Yun's son Wang Yu was twenty years old. When he met his servant Xie Zhi, Xie Xuan deeply respected him.
Later Xie An told people: In the past, Mao Jia was ridiculed in the Wei Dynasty, and Yang Jun almost overthrew the Jin Dynasty.
If the emperor wants to marry a wife, then if the queen has a father, she must be as famous as Wang Yun.
Later, he visited Wang Yun's daughter. She was beautiful in appearance and moral character, so she was recommended for election.
In the third year of Ningkang, General Huan Chong and other generals of the Chinese army reported: I have heard that the way of heaven and earth is in harmony; the virtues of the emperor and the empress must be harmonious and prosperous.
Then it can create all things, the order of heaven, earth and human beings will be clear, the spiritual roots will be strong for a long time, and the branches will multiply for hundreds of generations.
Heaven and man are the same, this is the case.
Therefore, when Yu married a wife in Tushan, the Xia Qu would be bright; if a maggot was married to a Dan family, the surname would be frank and the fortune would be prosperous.
Now that a queen will be established, she should choose it at the right time.
We heard that the daughter of Wang Yun, the prefect of Jinling, was gentle and obedient by nature, and had the four skills of "Poetry", "Book", "Li" and "Music".
Moreover, as a descendant of a virtuous family, he accumulated virtues and good deeds early.
Those of us who consult and discuss can be worthy of the emperor, respectfully flatter the ancestral temple, spread the word of virtue in the Sixth Palace, and be an example of mothers in the world.
So the emperor married her.
Wang Yun's wife Liu was granted the title of Lord of Leping Township.
The queen was fond of drinking and was proud and jealous by nature. The emperor was deeply worried.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
乃召蕴于东堂，具说后过状，令加训诫。
蕴免冠谢焉。
后于是少自改饰。
太元五年崩，年二十一，葬隆平陵。
安德陈太后，讳归女，松滋浔阳人也。
父广，以倡进，仕至平昌太守。
后以美色能歌弹，入宫为淑媛，生安、恭二帝。
太元十五年薨，赠夫人。
追崇曰皇太后，神主祔于宣太后庙，陵曰熙平。
安僖王皇后，讳神爱，琅邪临沂人也。
父献之，见别传。母新安愍公主。
后以太元二十一年纳为太子妃。
及安帝即位，立为皇后。无子。
义熙八年崩于徽音殿，时年二十九，葬休平陵。
恭思褚皇后，讳灵媛，河南阳翟人，义兴太守爽之女也。
后初为琅邪王妃。
元熙元年，立为皇后，生海盐、富阳公主。
及帝禅位于宋，降为零陵王妃。
宋元嘉十三年崩，时年五十三，祔葬冲平陵。
史臣曰：方祇体安，俪乾仪而合德；圆舒循晷，配羲曜以齐明。
故知阳烁阴凝，万物假其陶铸；火炎水润，六气由其调理。
取譬贤淑，作伉文思，灵根式固，实资于此。
宣穆阅礼，偶德潜鳞，翊天造之艰虞，嗣涂山之逸响，宝运归其后胤，盖有母仪之助焉。
武元杨氏预闻朝政，明不逮远，爱弱私情，深杜卫瓘之言，不晓张泓之诈，运其阴沴，韬映乾明，晋道中微，基于是矣。
惠皇禀质，天纵其嚚，识暗鸣蛙，智昏文蛤。
南风肆狡，扇祸稽天。
初践椒宫，逞枭心于长乐；方观梓树，颁鸩羽于离明。褒后灭周，方之盖小；妹妃倾夏，曾何足喻。
中原陷于鸣镝，其兆彰于此焉。
昔者高宗谅闇，总百官于元老；成王冲眇，托万机于上公。
太后御宸，谅知非古。
而明穆、康献，仍世临朝，时属委裘，躬行负扆。
translation: 
So he summoned Wang Yun in the East Hall, told the queen's faults one by one, and asked him to admonish him.
Wang Yun took off his hat and apologized.
The queen then corrected herself slightly.
He died in Zuo 55, at the age of 21, and was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
Empress Dowager Ande Chen was given the title of daughter, and her name was Songzi Xunyang.
His father, Chen Guang, won an official position by virtue of his skills and became the prefect of Pingchang.
Because of her beauty and good singing and playing the piano, the queen entered the palace and became Shuyuan, and gave birth to two emperors, An and Gong.
The Lord passed away in the fifty-fifth year and gave his wife the title.
She was added as the empress dowager, and she was sacrificed at the Xuansanhou Temple, and the mausoleum was called Xiping.
Queen Anxi was named Shen Ai, and she was from Linyi, Langxie.
His father was dedicated to the Lord, and his deeds are said to be different; his mother was Princess Xin'anmin.
The queen was married as the crown princess in the year 521 AD.
Saitong ascended the throne and was made queen. No son.
Zhanyan died in Aoxuan Hall in the eighth year of his reign at the age of twenty-nine and was buried in Tililu.
Queen Gongsi Chu was named Lingyuan, a native of Yangzhai, Henan, and the daughter of Chu Shuang, the prefect of Yixing.
The queen was originally Princess Langxie.
In the first year of Yuanxi, she was made queen and gave birth to Princess Haiyan and Princess Fuyang.
When the emperor abdicated the throne to Sai, she was demoted to Princess Lingling.
Song Yuanjia died in the 13th year of his reign at the age of fifty-three. He was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
Shi Chen said: The queen's body is in good health, and she matches the emperor and is virtuous; the moon follows the sun's shadow, and matches the sun and shines together.
Therefore, it can be seen that yang is hot and yin is cold, and all things are created by yin and yang; fire is hot and water is moist, and the six qi are regulated by water and fire.
It is used to describe a good wife and lady, matching the emperor's virtues. This is really helpful for the solid foundation of the royal family.
Empress Xuanmu knew etiquette and was a good matchmaker. She assisted the emperor to start a business with great difficulty, inherited the virtue passed down from Tushan, and passed down good luck to future generations. This was all due to the help of a motherly person.
The Yang family of Wuyuan interfered in the government affairs, was short-sighted, doted on the eldest son for personal gain, and completely eliminated Wei Cui's remarks. He was unaware of Zhang Hong's treachery and ominous aura, which obscured the emperor's sage. This was the beginning of the decline of Jin's power in the middle.
Emperor Hui was honest and dull by nature, so stupid that he asked whether the frogs croaking for official purposes or for private purposes.
The south wind is unbridled and cunning, stirring up disasters all over the sky.
As soon as she stepped into the concubine's palace, she began to display her ambition to be the queen mother; when she saw that she was in power, she was given poison to commit suicide. Empress Bao's destruction of the Zhou Dynasty is not an adequate metaphor; my sister's concubine's overthrow of the Xia Dynasty is not an adequate metaphor either.
The Central Plains was plunged into war, and the signs were obvious from then on.
In the past, Emperor Gaozong was in mourning and left the affairs of state to the elders; King Cheng was young and ignorant, so he entrusted state affairs to his superiors.
It is indeed not an ancient system for the Queen Mother to listen to government affairs in court.
Empresses Mingmu and Kangxian came to the court successively. The emperor was young at that time, so he took charge as regent personally.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
各免华阳之衅，竟蹑和熹之踪，保陵迟以克终，所幸实为多矣。
赞曰：二妃光舜，三母翼周。
末升夷癸，褒进亡幽。
家邦兴灭，职此之由。
穆后沈断，忘情执爨。
故剑辞恩，池蒲起叹。
崇化繁祉，肇基商乱。
二杨继宠，福极灾生。
南风炽虐，国丧身倾。
献容幸乱，居辱疑荣。
援笔废主，持尺威帝。
契阔终罹，殷忧以毙。
芬实窈窕，芳菲婉嫕。
吕妾变嬴，黄姬化羋。
石文远著，金行潜徙。
妇德倾城，迷硃夺紫。
translation: 
They all fell into the blood sacrifice of Huayang and rushed to follow He Xi's footsteps to prevent the declining national destiny from being ruined by their own hands. There are many people who are lucky.
Praise says: Two concubines promoted Shun's career, and three mothers supported the Zhou Dynasty.
Mo Xi was favored and Xia Jie was overthrown, while Bao Si proudly destroyed the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The rise and fall of a country is mainly due to this.
Empress Mu Shen Yi was decisive and could cook without showing a trace after killing people and silencing them.
The old wife fell out of favor, and the pond willows lamented for her.
The Empress Dowager of Chonghua Palace was blessed and was the starting point of troubles in later generations.
The two empresses Yang were favored one after another, which brought great blessings but also misfortunes.
Queen Nanfeng was cruel and tyrannical, and her country was destroyed and she died.
Queen Xianrong was favored by the rebellious ministers, and she thought it was honor to suffer humiliation.
He deposed the monarch when he picked up the pen, and bullied the emperor with the book of Shao.
Separation leads to misfortune, deep sorrow leads to death.
Fen is slim and graceful, and Fang is gentle and submissive.
The concubine of the Lu family gave birth to a son, who created the Qin Shihuang family, and the Yellow Emperor's concubine gave birth to a son, the Mi family, the ancestor of Chu.
Records have been passed down for a long time. The five elements of Jin belong to gold, and Jin De left quietly.
A woman's virtue is impressive and her influence exceeds that of princes.


