Summary uses chunk [0, 7, 7, 3]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
后妃下元敬虞皇后豫章君明穆庾皇后成恭杜皇后
章太妃康献褚皇后穆章何皇后哀靖王皇后
废帝孝庾皇后简文宣郑太后简文顺王皇
后孝武文李太后孝武定王皇后安德陈太后安僖王皇后恭思褚皇后
元敬虞皇后，讳孟母，济阳外黄人也。
父豫，见《外戚传》。
帝为琅邪王，纳后为妃，无子。
永嘉六年薨，时年三十五。
帝为晋王，追尊为王后。
有司奏王后应别立庙。
令曰： 今宗庙未成，不宜更兴作，便修饰陵上屋以为庙。
太兴三年，册曰： 皇帝咨前琅邪王妃虞氏：朕祗顺昊天成命，用陟帝位，悼妃夙徂，徽音潜翳，御于家邦，靡所仪刑，阴教有亏，用伤于怀。
追号制谥，先王之典。
今遣使持节兼太尉万胜奉册赠皇后玺绶，祀以太牢。
魂而有灵，嘉兹宠荣。
乃祔于太庙，葬建平陵。
太宁初，明帝追怀母养之恩，赠豫妻王氏为云阝阳县君，从母散骑常侍新野王罕妻为平阳乡君。
豫章君荀氏，元帝宫人也。
初有宠，生明帝及琅邪王裒，由是为虞后所忌。
自以位卑，每怀怨望，为帝所谴，渐见疏薄。
及明帝即位，封建安君，别立第宅。
太宁元年，帝迎还台内，供奉隆厚。
及成帝立，尊重同于太后。
咸康元年薨。
诏曰： 朕少遭悯凶，慈训无禀，抚育之勤，建安君之仁也。
一旦薨殂，实思报复，永惟平昔，感痛哀摧。
其赠豫章郡君，别立庙于京都。
明穆庾皇后，讳文君，颍川鄢陵人也。父琛，见《外戚传》。
后性仁慈，美姿仪。
元帝闻之，聘为太子妃，以德行见重。
明帝即位，立为皇后。
册曰： 妃庾氏昔承明命，作嫔东宫，虔恭中馈，思媚轨则。
translation: 
Empress Xia Yuan Jing Yu, Yu Zhang Jun Ming, Empress Mu Yu became Gong Du Empress
Concubine Zhang, Queen Kang Xian, Queen Mu Zhanghe, Queen Aijing
The deposed emperor, Empress Xiaoyu, Jian Wenxuan, the Empress Dowager Zheng, Jian Wenshun, the king
Empress Xiaowuwen Li Empress Dowager Xiaowu Dingwang Empress Ande Chen Empress Dowager Anxi Wang Empress Gongsi Chu Empress
Queen Yuan Jingyu's name was Meng Mu, a native of Jiyang Waihuang.
His father's name is Yu Yu, and his deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
When Emperor Yuan was King Langxie, he married the queen as his concubine and had no sons.
He died in the sixth year of Yongjia at the age of thirty-five.
When Emperor Yuan became the king of Jin, he gave her the title of queen.
Officials reported that the queen should build another temple.
Emperor Yuan ordered: "The ancestral temple has not yet been completed, and it is inconvenient to build another one. The house above the mausoleum can be renovated and used as a temple."
In the third year of Taixing, the second book says: The emperor lamented the former Langxie Princess Yu: I respectfully obeyed the orders of God, and therefore ascended the throne of God. I mourn the past of the concubine, her good name has not been promoted, there are no etiquette and regulations to govern the country, and the education in the harem is not enough, so I feel sad.
The gift of the title Dingmi is an old code of the former kings.
Today, envoy Chijie and Taiwei Wan Sheng were sent to present a posthumous jade seal to the Queen and use Tailao as a sacrifice.
If the Queen's soul has a spirit, she should be honored.
So he was offered sacrifices to the Imperial Ancestral Temple and buried in Jianping Mausoleum.
During the Taining period, Emperor Ming commemorated his mother's kindness in raising her and gave Yuzhang's wife Wang as the queen of Qiuyang County. His aunt Sanqi often served as the wife of Sima Han, the king of Xinye, as the queen of Pingyang Township.
The Xun family of Yuzhang Jun was a palace member of Emperor Yuan.
After being favored at first, she gave birth to Emperor Ming and King Langxie Sima Sui, so she was hated by Empress Yu.
Because of his low status and constant resentment, he was condemned by Emperor Yuan and gradually became alienated and neglected.
When Emperor Ming came to the throne, he was granted the title of Jianxuanzhou and built another residence.
In the first year of Zuo Zhen's reign, Dandao welcomed her back to the palace and provided her with grand and generous supplies.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, he treated her with the same respect as the Queen Mother.
He died in the first year of Xiankang.
Shao Shu said: I suffered misfortune when I was young, but it was Jian Sairi who taught me lovingly and worked hard to raise me.
Once I pass away, I really want to repay the favor and will always miss the past and be sentimental and sad.
He was given the title of Yuzhang County Lord and built another temple in Kyoto.
Empress Muyu of the Ming Dynasty was named Wenjun and was a native of Yanling, Yingchuan. His father Yu Bi's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
The queen has a kind temperament and beautiful appearance.
After Emperor Yuan heard about it, he appointed her as the crown princess, and she was respected for her good virtues.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and became queen.
The book says: Concubine Yu previously followed the Holy Order and served as a concubine in the East Palace. She was respectful of women, loving and courteous.
summary:
A detailed account of the empresses, consorts, and dowagers of the Jin Dynasty, chronicling their lives, titles, deaths, and roles in court politics. Empress Xia Yuan Jing Yu, who died young before her husband became emperor, and was later posthumously honored. Her rival, Concubine Zhang, bore Emperor Ming but was hated by Empress Yu and neglected by Emperor Yuan; she was later honored by her son. Empress Ming Mu Yu, known for her virtue, served as regent for her young son, Emperor Cheng, during a rebellion, and died in distress. Empress Cheng Gong Du, from a virtuous family, died young without children, and her funeral was kept simple by imperial decree.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
此则明比，臣所宪章也。
明穆皇后不夺其志，乃徙琅邪王为会稽王，追号后曰会稽太妃。
及简文帝即位，未及追尊。
临崩，封皇子道子为琅邪王，领会稽国，奉太妃祀。
太元十九年，孝武帝下诏曰： 会稽太妃文母之德，徽音有融，诞载圣明，光延于晋。
先帝追尊圣善，朝议不一，道以疑屈。
朕述遵先志，常惕于心。
今仰奉遗旨，依《阳秋》二汉孝怀皇帝故事，上太妃尊号曰简文太后。
于是立庙于太庙路西，陵曰嘉平。
时群臣希旨，多谓郑太后应配食于元帝者。
帝以问太子前率徐邈，邈曰： 臣案《阳秋》之义，母以子贵。
鲁隐尊桓母，别考仲子之宫而不配食于惠庙。
又平素之时，不伉俪于先帝，至于子孙，岂可为祖考立配？
其崇尊尽礼，由于臣子，故得称太后，陵庙备典。
若乃祔葬配食，则义所不可。
从之。
简文顺王皇后，讳简姬，太原晋阳人也。父遐，见《外戚传》。
后以冠族，初为会稽王妃，生子道生，为世子。
永和四年，母子并失帝意，俱被幽废，后遂以忧薨。
咸安二年，孝武帝即位，追尊曰顺皇后，合葬高平陵，追赠后父遐特进、光禄大夫，加散骑常侍。
孝武文李太后，讳陵容，本出微贱。
始简文帝为会稽王，有三子，俱夭。
自道生废黜，献王早世，其后诸姬绝孕将十年。
帝令卜者扈谦筮之，曰： 后房中有一女，当育二贵男，其一终盛晋室。
时徐贵人生新安公主，以德美见宠。
帝常冀之有娠，而弥年无子，会有道士许迈者，朝臣时望多称其得道。
帝从容问焉，答曰： 迈是好山水人，本无道术，斯事岂所能判！
但殿下德厚庆深，宜隆奕世之绪，当从扈谦之言，以存广接之道。
帝然之，更加采纳。
又数年无子，乃令善相者召诸爱妾而示之，皆云非其人，又悉以诸婢媵示焉。
时后为宫人，在织坊中，形长而色黑，宫人皆谓之昆仑。
既至，相者惊云： 此其人也。
帝以大计，召之侍寝。
后数梦两龙枕膝，日月入怀，意以为吉祥，向侪类说之，帝闻而异焉，遂生孝武帝及会稽文孝王、鄱阳长公主。
及孝武帝初即位，尊为淑妃。
太元三年，进为贵人，九年，又进为夫人。
十二年，加为皇太妃，仪服一同太后。
十九年，会稽王道子启： 母以子贵，庆厚礼崇。
伏惟皇太妃纯德光大，休祐攸钟，启嘉祚于圣明，嗣徽音于上列。
虽幽显同谋，而称谓未尽，非所以仰述圣心，允答天人。
宜崇正名号，详案旧典。
八月辛巳，帝临轩，遣兼太保刘耽尊为皇太后，称崇训宫。
安帝即位，尊为太皇太后。
隆安四年，崩于含章殿。
translation: 
This is a clear precedent that I should follow.
Queen Mingmu did not force him to change his mind, so she appointed King Langxie as King of Kuaiji and posthumously named the Queen as Princess of Kuaiji.
Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne and would have time to add titles in the future.
When he was about to die, he named the prince Daozi the king of Langxie, led the country of Kuaiji, and offered sacrifices to the concubine.
In the 19th year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu issued an edict saying: Concubine Kuaiji is the mother of virtue and virtue, with a harmonious sound of virtue, full of sage wisdom, and illumination of the Jin Dynasty.
The late emperor gave the wise and kind-hearted concubine Kuaiji an additional honorary title. The court's opinions were inconsistent, and the Tao was suspected of being distorted.
I stated that I would follow the late Emperor's ambition and always warned him in my heart.
Today, in accordance with the "Spring and Autumn Annals", the Han Dynasty and the past practices of Emperor Xiaohuai, the concubine is given the title of Empress Dowager Jian Wenxuan.
So a temple was built on the west side of Taimiao Road, and the mausoleum was called Jiaping.
At that time, in order to cater to the emperor's will, the officials believed that Empress Dowager Zheng should be sacrificed to Emperor Yuan.
The emperor asked Xu Miao about this, and Xu Miao said: I think the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that a mother becomes noble because of her son.
Duke Yin of Lu respected Duke Huan's mother and built a separate palace for Zhongzi instead of sharing it with Hui Temple.
Moreover, in the past, Empress Dowager Zheng was not the wife of the late emperor, so how could the descendants establish a first wife for their ancestors?
Respect has reached the extreme. Because of the ministers, she can be called the Queen Mother, and the ceremony of the mausoleum and temple is complete.
If they are buried together and sacrificed, it is not allowed by the righteousness and etiquette.
Complied with him.
Queen Jian Wenshun's name is Jian Ji, a native of Jinyang, Taiyuan. His father Wang Xia's deeds can be found in "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Because the queen came from a distinguished family, she was originally the princess of Kuaiji. She gave birth to a son, Daosheng, who was established as the prince.
In the fourth year of Yonghe, both mother and son lost the emperor's favor and were both imprisoned and deposed. The queen died of depression.
In the second year of Xian'an, Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne and was given the additional honorary title of Queen Shun. They were buried together in Gaoping Mausoleum. They were posthumously presented to the Queen's father Wang Xia Tejin and Dr. Guanglu, and were granted the title of Sanqi Changshi.
Empress Dowager Li Xiaowuwen was named Lingrong and came from a humble background.
At first Emperor Jian Wen was the king of Kuaiji and had three sons, all of whom died in infancy.
Since Daosheng was deposed and King Xian died prematurely, all the concubines have not been pregnant for nearly ten years.
The emperor ordered the soothsayer Hu Qian to divine for this purpose. Hu Qian said: There is a woman in the back room who will be able to give birth to two rich boys, one of whom will eventually prosper and advance to the imperial family.
At that time, Xu Guisheng gave birth to Princess Xin'an, who was favored because of her good virtues.
The emperor often hoped that she would become pregnant, but she remained childless. It happened that there was a Taoist priest named Xu Mai. The ministers of the court and celebrities at that time said that he had attained Taoism.
The emperor asked him calmly and replied: I am a person who likes mountains and rivers. I have no Taoism. How can I judge such a thing!
However, His Highness's great virtue and good fortune should lead to the prosperity of his children. He should listen to Hu Qian's words and broaden the way to pass on the family line.
The emperor thought he was right and adopted more concubines.
After a few years, he had no son, so he ordered a person who was good at fortune-telling to summon all his concubines to show him. If none of them were chosen, he summoned all the maids and concubines to show him.
At that time, the queen was a palace servant. She was tall and dark-faced in the textile workshop, and the palace maids called her "Kunlun".
After being summoned, the physiognomist said in surprise: This is the person.
The emperor summoned her to serve him while he slept.
The queen dreamed several times of two dragons resting on her knees and the sun and moon falling into her arms. She thought it was auspicious and told the story to similar people. The emperor was surprised when he heard about it. After that, he gave birth to Emperor Xiaowu, King Wenxiao of Kuaiji, and the eldest princess of Poyang.
Emperor Xiaowu had just ascended the throne and respected her as Concubine Shu.
In the third year of Taiyuan, he was promoted to a nobleman. In the ninth year, she was promoted to wife.
In the twelfth year, she became the imperial concubine, and the ceremonial dress was exactly the same as that of the empress dowager.
In the 19th year, King Daozi of Kuaiji declared: "Mothers value their sons, and they are rich in blessings and gifts."
I believe that the virtue of the Crown Princess shines everywhere, and the blessing of her virtue has been gathered for a long time. She has begun to have good fortune in the holy light, and has inherited the sound of virtue from her ancestors.
Although subtle or prominent are based on the same consideration, the title is not respectful to the extreme and cannot express respect for the Sacred Heart. Unable to answer the gods.
The name should be corrected and the details should be in accordance with the old regulations.
In the eighth month of Xinsi, the emperor came to the palace and sent Liu Danzun, the concubine and Taibao, as the empress dowager and called Chongxun Palace.
Emperor An ascended the throne and honored her as the Empress Dowager.
In the fourth year of Long'an, he died in Hanzhang Hall.
summary:
The text then covers Empress Kang Xian Chu, who served as regent for Emperor Mu, and later for Emperor Ai and Duke Haixi, including her role in the deposition of the latter. Empress Mu Zhang He, from a notable family, was captured during Huan Xuan's usurpation and later returned to the capital. Empress Ai Jing, originally a concubine, died childless. The deposed Emperor's Empress Xiao Yu was demoted after her husband's deposition. Empress Dowager Jian Wen Xuan Zheng, a widow who remarried Emperor Yuan, was posthumously honored by her son, Emperor Jian Wen, and later by Emperor Xiao Wu, despite debates over her proper sacrificial status. Empress Jian Wen Shun Wang, who lost favor and was deposed with her son, was posthumously restored. Empress Dowager Xiao Wu Wen Li, of humble origin, was chosen by a physiognomist and bore Emperor Xiao Wu and others, eventually being honored as empress dowager. Empress Xiao Wu Ding Wang, chosen for her beauty and virtue, was jealous and died young. Empress Dowager An De Chen, a concubine who bore two emperors, was posthumously honored. Empress An Xi Wang, married as crown princess, died childless. Empress Gong Si Chu, demoted after her husband's abdication, died later.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
伏惟陛下德侔二妫，淑美《关雎》，临朝摄政，以宁天下。
今社稷危急，兆庶悬命，臣等章惶，一日万机，事运之期，天禄所钟，非复冲虚高让之日。
汉和熹、顺烈，并亦临朝，近明穆故事，以为先制。
臣等不胜悲怖，谨伏地上请。
乞陛下上顺祖宗，下念臣吏，推公弘道，以协天人，则万邦承庆，群黎更生。
太后诏曰： 帝幼冲，当赖群公卿土将顺匡救，以酬先帝礼贤之意，且是旧德世济之美，则莫重之命不坠，祖宗之基有奉，是其所以欲正位于内而已。
所奏恳到，形于翰墨，执省未究，以悲以惧。
先后允恭谦抑，思顺坤道，所以不距群情，固为国计。
岂敢执守冲暗，以违先旨。
辄敬从所奏。
于是临朝称制。
有司奏，谢夫人既封，荀、卞二夫人亦应追赠，皆后之前母也。
太后不许。
太常殷融议依郑玄义，卫将军裒在宫庭则尽臣敬，太后归宁之日自如家人之礼。
太后诏曰： 典礼诚所未详，如所奏，是情所不能安也，更详之。
征西将军翼、南中郎尚议谓 父尊尽于一家，君敬重于天下，郑玄义合情礼之中 。
太后从之。
自后朝臣皆敬裒焉。
帝既冠，太后诏曰： 昔遭不造，帝在幼冲，皇绪之微，眇若赘旒。
百辟卿士率遵前朝，劝喻摄政。
以社稷之重，先代成义，僶俛敬从，弗遑固守。
仰凭七庙之灵，俯仗群后之力，帝加元服，礼成德备，当阳亲览，临御万国。
今归事反政，一依旧典。
于是居崇德宫，手诏群公曰： 昔以皇帝幼冲，从群后之议，既以暗弱，又频丁极艰，衔恤历祀，沈忧在疚。
司徒亲尊德重，训救其弊，王室之不坏，实公是恁。
帝既备兹冠礼，而四海未一，五胡叛逆，豺狼当路，费役日兴，百姓困苦。
愿诸君子思量远算，戮力一心，辅翼幼主，匡救不逮。
未亡人永归别宫，以终余齿。
仰惟家国，故以一言托怀。
translation: 
We believe that His Majesty's virtue is comparable to that of Er Yan, and his beauty is better than that of the concubine in "Guan Ju". He should serve as regent to bring peace to the world.
Nowadays, the country is in crisis and the fate of the people is uncertain. We are panic-stricken. There are many important national events in one day. The timing and deadline of events are what God values ​​when blessing. Now is no longer a day of being noble and humble.
He Xi and Shun Lie of the Han Dynasty both attended the court and listened to the government. In modern times, Queen Mu of the Ming Dynasty listened to the government, which is the system of ancestors.
We were very sad and frightened, so we knelt down and begged respectfully.
I beg your Majesty to obey the wishes of the ancestors above and to care about the ministers and officials below, and to promote morality with a public heart in order to comply with the will of God and the wishes of people. In this way, the world will celebrate and the people will be reborn.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is young and should rely on his ministers to help him correct his faults with his virtues, in order to repay the late emperor's kindness in treating others with courtesy. Moreover, the benefits of old virtues and current salvation are not more important than being able to prevent destiny and have people who flatter the ancestors' inheritance, so the throne must be confirmed in the palace.
The memorial is sincere and thoughtful, and it is revealed in the pen and ink. Even before I read it, I felt sad and scared.
The queen of the previous dynasty was honest, respectful, modest, and obedient to women. The reason why she did not refuse the invitations of the ministers was for the sake of the country.
How dare I stick to the young emperor and go against the late emperor's will.
He listened respectfully.
So he came to the court to listen to the government.
Relevant officials reported that Mrs. Xie had been granted the title, and that Mrs. Xun and Bian should also be granted titles posthumously. They were both ex-wives of the queen's father.
The Queen Mother did not allow it.
Taichang Yin Rong's memorial was based on Zheng Xuan's etiquette. General Chu Su of the Wei Dynasty respected the Queen Mother according to the court etiquette, and the Queen Mother followed the etiquette at home when she went home to visit relatives.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: I really don't know the ceremony. If it is exactly as it is performed, then I will not be able to rest assured because of family ties. We should discuss it again.
Sima Yi, the general who conquered the West, and Sima Shang, the Nanzhong Lang, reported that respect for the father is limited to one family, and respect for the king is more important than the world. Zheng Xuan's etiquette is reasonable.
The Queen Mother obeyed.
From then on, all the ministers in the court respected Chu Ai.
After the emperor was crowned, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: In the past, misfortune occurred. The emperor was young and the royal career was in decline, just like the jade beads hanging from the crown.
The princes and ministers all followed the previous dynasty and persuaded me to take over as regent.
Because the country is important and the past generations have set examples, I try my best to obey and have no time to stick to the ways of women.
Relying on the gods of the seven temples and relying on the power of the princes, the emperor performed the crowning ceremony. With the etiquette completed and his virtues complete, he should face south to handle government affairs and rule all nations.
Now that I have returned political power, there are still rules and regulations.
So he stayed in Chongde Palace and issued an edict to the ministers: In the past, because the emperor was young, he obeyed the advice of the princes. Because of my lack of ability and frequent difficulties, I sacrificed my late father and was deeply worried about mourning.
Situ was highly respected and pointed out that the shortcomings of the country should be corrected. The royal family did not decline. It was really thanks to Situ.
The emperor has completed the crowning ceremony, but the world has not yet been unified. The five barbarians are rebellious, the wolves are in power, the wealth and labor are increasing day by day, and the people are in poverty.
I hope that all gentlemen will consider the long term and work together to assist and protect the young emperor and correct the shortcomings.
I will return to another palace forever and spend the rest of my life.
It's all for the country, I express my thoughts with these words.
summary:
The text concludes with a historian's commentary, praising virtuous empresses who aided the dynasty's rise, while condemning those like Empress Jia Nanfeng for causing decline. It notes the unusual practice of empress dowagers acting as regents, which was not an ancient custom, and reflects on the rise and fall of dynasties being tied to the influence of women.

