Chunk 0: 
original: 
越王勾践，其先禹之苗裔，而夏后帝少康之庶子也。
封于会稽，以奉守禹之祀。
文身断发，披草莱而邑焉。
后二十余世，至于允常。
允常之时，与吴王阖庐战而相怨伐。
允常卒，子勾践立，是为越王。
元年，吴王阖庐闻允常死，乃兴师伐越。
越王勾践使死士挑战，三行，至吴陈，呼而自刭。
吴师观之，越因袭击吴师，吴师败于槜李，射伤吴王阖庐。
阖庐且死，告其子夫差曰： 必毋忘越。
三年，勾践闻吴王夫差日夜勒兵，且以报越，越欲先吴未发往伐之。
范蠡谏曰： 不可。臣闻兵者凶器也，战者逆德也，争者事之末也。
阴谋逆德，好用凶器，试身于所末，上帝禁之，行者不利。
越王曰： 吾已决之矣。
遂兴师。
吴王闻之，悉发精兵击越，败之夫椒。
越王乃以余兵五千人保栖于会稽。
吴王追而围之。
越王谓范蠡曰： 以不听子故至于此，为之奈何？
蠡对曰： 持满者与天，定倾者与人，节事者以地。
卑辞厚礼以遗之，不许，而身与之市。 勾践曰 诺。
乃令大夫种行成于吴，膝行顿首曰： 君王亡臣勾践使陪臣种敢告下执事：勾践请为臣，妻为妾。
吴王将许之。
子胥言于吴王曰： 天以越赐吴，勿许也。
种还，以报勾践。
勾践欲杀妻子，燔宝器，触战以死。
translation: 
The ancestor of King Gou Jian of Yue was a descendant of Xia Yu and the son of a concubine of Emperor Shaokang of the Xia Dynasty.
Emperor Shaokang's son was sealed in Kuaiji, where he respectfully worshiped and inherited Xia Yu's sacrifices.
They tattooed their bodies with patterns, cut their hair short, opened up barren land, and built cities.
After more than twenty generations of reproduction, it was passed down to Yunchang.
When Yunchang was in power, he and King Wu Helu had resentment and attacked each other.
After Yunchang's death, his son Gou Jian came to the throne and became the king of Yue.
In the first year of King Goujian of Yue, King Helu of Wu heard that Yunchang had passed away, so he raised troops to attack Yue.
King Gou Jian of Yue sent warriors who dared to die to challenge the Wu army. The warriors lined up in three lines and rushed into the Wu army's position, shouting that they would kill themselves.
The Wu soldiers were stunned. The Vietnamese army took the opportunity to attack the Wu army. They defeated the Wu army at Jianli and shot and wounded the king of Wu in his house.
When Helu was dying, he warned his son Fucha: Never forget the country of Yue.
Three years ago, Gou Jian heard that King Wu Fu Chai was training his soldiers day and night to avenge Yue, so he planned to strike first and attack Wu before Wu sent troops.
Fan Li remonstrated and said: "No, I heard that weapons are dangerous weapons, attacking is immoral, and taking things by force is the lowest behavior in dealing with things."
Those who conspire to do immoral things, like to use weapons, and personally participate in low-level things will definitely be opposed by the Emperor of Heaven, and this will not bring good results.
The King of Yue said: I have made a decision.
So he raised his troops and marched into the state of Wu.
After King Wu heard the news, he mobilized the country's elite troops to attack the Vietnamese army, and defeated the Vietnamese army in Fujiao.
The King of Yue only gathered 5,000 remaining soldiers and the defeated generals retreated to Kuaiji.
King Wu took advantage of the victory to pursue and surrounded Kuaiji.
The King of Yue said to Fan Li: I ended up in this situation because I didn't listen to your advice. What should I do?
Fan Li replied: Those who can protect themselves must imitate the way of heaven, which is full but not overflowing; those who can calm down crises and overturns must understand that humanity advocates humility; those who can control things will follow the way and adapt to local conditions.
Now, you must be humble and courteous to the King of Wu, and send people to give generous gifts to the King of Wu. If he does not agree, go and serve him personally, and pledge yourself to the King of Wu. Gou Jian said: OK!
So he sent the official Zhong to ask for peace from Wu. Zhong knelt on the ground and kowtowed as he walked forward and said: Gou Jian, the king's subjugated subject, asked me to boldly tell your subordinates: Gou Jian asks you to allow him to be your slave and his wife to be your concubine.
King Wu will agree to plant it.
Zixu said to the King of Wu: God has given the Kingdom of Yue to the Kingdom of Wu, so don’t agree to it.
Zane returned to Echigo and told Gou Jian about the situation.
Gou Jian wanted to kill his wife and children, burn his treasures, and go to the battlefield to fight to the death.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
种止勾践曰： 夫吴太宰嚭贪，可诱以利，请间行言之。
于是勾践乃以美女宝器令种间献吴太宰嚭。嚭受，乃见大夫种于吴王。
种顿首言曰： 愿大王赦勾践之罪，尽入其宝器。
不幸不赦，勾践将尽杀其妻子，燔其宝器，悉五千人触战，必有当也。
嚭因说吴王曰： 越以服为臣，若将赦之，此国之利也。
吴王将许之。
子胥进谏曰： 今不灭越，后必悔之。
勾践贤君，种、蠡良臣，若反国，将为乱。
吴王弗听，卒赦越，罢兵而归。
勾践之困会稽也，喟然叹曰： 吾终于此乎？
种曰： 汤系夏台，文王囚羑里，晋重耳奔翟，齐小白奔莒，其卒王霸。
由是观之，何遽不为福乎？
吴既赦越，越王勾践反国，乃苦身焦思，置胆于坐，坐卧即仰胆，饮食亦尝胆也，曰： 女忘会稽之耻邪？
身自耕作，夫人自织，食不加肉，衣不重采，折节下贤人，厚遇宾客，振贫吊死，与百姓同其劳。
欲使范蠡治国政，蠡对曰： 兵甲之事，种不如蠡；填抚国家，亲附百姓，蠡不如种。
于是举国政属大夫种，而使范蠡与大夫柘稽行成，为质于吴。
二岁而吴归蠡。
勾践自会稽归七年，拊循其士民，欲用以报吴。
大夫逢同谏曰： 国新流亡，今乃复殷给，缮饰备利，吴必惧，惧则难必至。
且鸷鸟之击也，必匿其形。
今夫吴兵加齐、晋，怨深于楚、越，名高天下，实害周室，德少而功多，必淫自矜。
translation: 
Zhong stopped Gou Jian and said, "Pu, the chief minister of Wu State, is very greedy. We can seduce him with a lot of money. Please allow me to contact him secretly to negotiate peace."
So Gou Jian asked Zhong to present beautiful women, jewelry and jades to Dazai Pei. Pi readily accepted the offer and introduced Dr. Zhong to King Wu.
Zhong kowtowed and said: I hope the king can forgive Gou Jian's sins, and our country, Yue, will give you all the treasures passed down from generation to generation.
If you are not pardoned by luck, Gou Jian will kill all his wife and children, burn his treasures, and lead his five thousand soldiers to fight to the death with you. You will also pay a considerable price.
Dazai Pi took the opportunity to persuade the King of Wu: The King of Yue has become an obedient minister. If he is pardoned, it will be beneficial to our country.
King Wu agreed to plant it again.
Zixu remonstrated again and said: If we don't destroy Yue now, we will definitely regret it in the future.
Gou Jian is a wise monarch, and the officials Zhong and Fan Li are both wise ministers. If Gou Jian can return to Yue, he will definitely cause chaos.
The King of Wu did not listen to Zixu's advice and finally pardoned the King of Yue and withdrew his troops back to the country.
When Gou Jian was trapped in Kuaiji, he once sighed and said: Am I going to end my life here?
Zhong said: Tang of Shang was imprisoned in Xiatai, King Wen of Zhou was besieged in Youli, Chong'er of Jin fled to Zhai, and Xiaobai of Qi fled to Ju. They all finally became kings and dominated the world.
From this point of view, is it possible that our situation today cannot be a blessing?
The King of Wu pardoned the King of Yue. After Gou Jian returned home, he thought deeply and worked hard to hang gall on the seat. He could look up and taste the gall while sitting or lying down, and he could also taste the gall while eating. Said: Have you forgotten the humiliation Kuaiji suffered?
He farmed by himself, his wife weaved by herself, and he never had meat dishes in his meals. Never wear two layers of gorgeous clothes, be courteous to wise men, be able to accept humiliation, entertain guests with enthusiasm and sincerity, be able to help the poor, mourn the dead, and work together with the people.
The King of Yue wanted Fan Li to manage the government affairs of the country. Fan Li replied: "I am not as good as a soldier in fighting a war. I am not as good as a farmer in calming down and appeasing the country and getting the people to come close to me."
So he entrusted the government affairs to the official Zhong, and asked Fan Li and the official Zheji to seek peace and serve as hostages in the state of Wu.
Two years later, the state of Wu allowed Fan Li to return to the country.
Seven years after Gou Jian returned from Kuaiji, he always comforted his soldiers and people, hoping to take revenge on Wu.
The doctor came together and admonished us: "The country has just endured the exile, and today it is rich and prosperous again. If we rectify our armaments, Wu will be afraid. If it is afraid, disaster will follow."
Besides, when a ferocious big bird attacks a target, it must hide first.
Now, the Wu army is attacking Qi and Jin, and has a deep hatred with Chu and Yue. Although it is famous in the world, it has actually jeopardized the prestige of the Zhou royal family. Wu lacks morality but has many military exploits, so he must be arrogant and arrogant.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
为越计，莫若结齐，亲楚，附晋，以厚吴。
吴之志广，必轻战。是我连其权，三国伐之，越承其弊，可克也。 勾践曰： 善。
居二年，吴王将伐齐。
子胥谏曰： 未可。
臣闻勾践食不重味，与百姓同苦乐。
此人不死，必为国患。
吴有越，腹心之疾；齐与吴，疥癣也。
愿王释齐先越。
吴王弗听，遂伐齐，败之艾陵，虏齐高、国以归。
让子胥。子胥曰： 王毋喜！
王怒，子胥欲自杀，王闻而止之。
越大夫种曰： 臣观吴王政骄矣，请试尝之贷粟，以卜其事。
请贷，吴王欲与，子胥谏勿与，王遂与之，越乃私喜。
子胥言曰： 王不听谏，后三年吴其墟乎！
太宰嚭闻之，乃数与子胥争越议，因谗子胥曰： 伍员貌忠而实忍人，其父兄不顾，安能顾王？
王前欲伐齐，员强谏，已而有功，用是反怨王。
王不备伍员，员必为乱。
与逢同共谋，谗之王。
王始不从，乃使子胥于齐，闻其托子于鲍氏，王乃大怒，曰： 伍员果欺寡人！
役反，使人赐子胥属镂剑以自杀。
子胥大笑曰： 我令而父霸，我又立若，若初欲分吴国半予我，我不受，已，今若反以谗诛我。
嗟乎，嗟乎，一人固不能独立！
报使者曰： 必取吾眼置吴东门，以观越兵入也！ 于是吴任嚭政。
居三年，勾践召范蠡曰： 吴已杀子胥，导谀者众，可乎？
对曰： 未可。
translation: 
If you really care about the Yue State, it is better for the Yue State to make friends with the Qi State, get closer to the Chu State, submit to the Jin State, and treat Wu favorably.
The state of Wu has lofty ambitions and must treat war with contempt. In this way, our country can contact the forces of the three countries and let the three countries attack the state of Wu, and the state of Yue can take advantage of its fatigue to conquer it. Gou Jian said: OK.
Two years later, King Wu was about to attack Qi.
Zixu remonstrated and said: No.
I heard that Gou Jian never cooked two kinds of delicious dishes and shared the joys and sorrows with the people.
If this person doesn't die, he will definitely become a worry for our country.
The state of Wu had the state of Yue, which was a serious problem, but Qi was just like a scabies to Wu.
I hope the king will give up attacking Qi and attack Yue first.
The King of Wu refused to listen, so he sent troops to attack Qi, defeated the Qi army in Ailing, and captured Qi's Gao and Guo clans and returned to Wu.
King Wu scolded Zixu, and Zixu said: "Don't be too happy!"
The King of Wu was very angry and Zixu wanted to commit suicide. The King of Wu heard about it and stopped him.
Zhong, the official of the Yue State, said: I have observed that King Wu is too arrogant in power. Please allow me to test it out and borrow food from him to gauge King Wu's attitude towards the State of Yue.
Zhong asked King Wu to borrow grain. The King of Wu wanted to lend it to him, but Zixu suggested not to lend it. The King of Wu lent it to Yue anyway, and the King of Yue was secretly very happy.
Zixu said: If the king does not listen to my advice, the country of Wu will be in ruins in three years!
After Dazai Pi heard this, he argued with Zixu many times about the strategy to deal with the Yue Kingdom. He took the opportunity to slander Zixu and said: "Wu Yuan is loyal on the surface, but in fact he is cruel. He doesn't even care about his father and brother. How can he care about the king?"
The king wanted to attack Qi State last time, and his soldiers strongly remonstrated with him. Later, you fought successfully, but he resented you for it.
If you don't guard against him, he will definitely cause trouble.
Pi also conspired with Feng to slander Zixu again and again in front of the king.
The king did not listen to the slander at first, so he sent Zixu as an envoy to Qi. When he heard that Zixu had entrusted his son to the Bao family, the king was furious and said: "Wu Yuan really deceived me!"
After Zixu returned from his mission to Qi, the King of Wu sent someone to give Zixu a carved sword and asked him to commit suicide.
Zixu laughed and said: I assisted your father to dominate and made you king. At first you wanted to divide the country of Wu equally with me, but I didn't accept it. Not long after that, today you killed me for slander.
Alas, alas, you can never build a country by yourself!
Zixu told the envoy: I must take out my eyes and hang them on the east gate of the capital of Wu, so that I can see the Vietnamese army entering the capital with my own eyes. So the king of Wu reused Pei to take charge of the state affairs.
Three years later, Gou Jian summoned Fan Li and said, "The king of Wu has killed Xu, and there are many flatterers. Can we attack Wu?"
Fan Li replied: No.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
至明年春，吴王北会诸侯于黄池，吴国精兵从王，惟独老弱与太子留守。
勾践复问范蠡，蠡曰 可矣 。
乃发习流二千人，教士四万人，君子六千人，诸御千人，伐吴。
吴师败，遂杀吴太子。
吴告急于王，王方会诸侯于黄池，惧天下闻之，乃秘之。
吴王已盟黄池，乃使人厚礼以请成越。
越自度亦未能灭吴，乃与吴平。
其后四年，越复伐吴。
吴士民罢弊，轻锐尽死于齐、晋。
而越大破吴，因而留围之三年，吴师败，越遂复栖吴王于姑苏之山。
吴王使公孙雄肉袒膝行而前，请成越王曰： 孤臣夫差敢布腹心，异日尝得罪于会稽，夫差不敢逆命，得与君王成以归。
今君王举玉趾而诛孤臣，孤臣惟命是听，意者亦欲如会稽之赦孤臣之罪乎？
勾践不忍，欲许之。
范蠡曰： 会稽之事，天以越赐吴，吴不取。
今天以吴赐越，越其可逆天乎？
且夫君王蚤朝晏罢，非为吴邪？
谋之二十二年，一旦而弃之，可乎？
且夫天与弗取，反受其咎。 伐柯者其则不远。
君忘会稽之厄乎？
勾践曰： 吾欲听子言，吾不忍其使者。
范蠡乃鼓进兵，曰： 王已属政于执事，使者去，不者且得罪。
吴使者泣而去。
勾践怜之，乃使人谓吴王曰： 吾置王甬东，君百家。
吴王谢曰： 吾老矣，不能事君王！
遂自杀。乃蔽其面，曰： 吾无面以见子胥也！
越王乃葬吴王而诛太宰嚭。
勾践已平吴，乃以兵北渡淮，与齐、晋诸侯会于徐州，致贡于周。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, King Wu went to Huangchi in the north to join the princes. All the elite troops of Wu State followed King Wu to the meeting. Only the old, weak and remnant soldiers and the prince stayed in Wudu.
Gou Jian asked Fan Li if he could attack Wu.
Fan Li said: That's all. So he sent 2,000 soldiers who were familiar with water warfare, 40,000 well-trained soldiers, 6,000 well-educated and high-status guards, and 1,000 management and technical officers of various types to attack Wu.
The Wu army was defeated, and the Vietnamese army also killed the prince of Wu.
The envoy from the State of Wu quickly reported the situation to the King of Wu. The King of Wu was meeting the princes in Huangchi. He was afraid that the people of the world would hear the news of this tragic defeat, so he insisted on keeping it a secret.
King Wu had already made an alliance with the princes in Huangchi, so he sent people with generous gifts to ask for peace with Yue.
The King of Yue estimated that he could not destroy the State of Wu, so he made peace with the State of Wu.
Four years later, Yue attacked Wu again.
The army and people of Wu were exhausted, and all their elite soldiers died in the battles with Qi and Jin.
Therefore, the State of Yue defeated the Wu army and besieged Wu's capital for three years. When the Wu army was defeated, the State of Yue besieged the King of Wu on Mount Gusu.
The King of Wu sent Gong Sunxiong to take off his shirt, expose his arms, kneel forward, and ask for peace with the King of Yue. He said: The helpless minister Fu Cha took the liberty to express his wish. I have offended you in Kuaiji in the past. I dare not disobey your order. If I can make peace with you, I will withdraw my troops and return home.
Today you come here to punish me, and I will obey your orders, but my private intention is to forgive my husband Chai's sins just like Kuaiji Mountain did to you!
Gou Jian couldn't bear it and wanted to agree to King Wu.
Fan Li said: What happened in Kuaiji was that God gave the State of Yue to the State of Wu, but the State of Wu did not take it away.
Now that God has given the Kingdom of Wu to the Kingdom of Yue, can the Kingdom of Yue violate the destiny of heaven?
Besides, isn’t it just for the sake of the Kingdom of Wu that the king goes to court in the morning and leaves the court in the evening?
I have been planning to conquer Wu for twenty-two years. Once I give up, can I do this?
If you don't take what God has given you, you will be punished. Use an ax to chop wood to make an ax handle. The pattern of the ax handle is always around.
Has the king forgotten the suffering of Kuaiji?
Gou Jian said: I want to follow your advice, but I cannot bear to treat his envoys like this.
Fan Li then beat the drum and marched, saying: "The king has entrusted me with the government affairs. The envoy from the State of Wu must leave as soon as possible, otherwise he will be punished."
The envoy from Wu State cried sadly and left.
Gou Jian took pity on him and sent someone to tell King Wu: "I will arrange for you to go to Yongdong!" Rule a hundred families.
King Wu declined and said: I am already old and can no longer serve you!
After saying this, he committed suicide. When he committed suicide, he covered his face and said: I have no shame to see Zixu!
The king of Yue buried the king of Wu and killed Dazai Pei.
After Gou Jian pacified the state of Wu, he sent troops north to cross the Huaihe River, met with the princes of Qi and Jin in Xuzhou, and paid tribute to the Zhou royal family.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
周元王使人赐勾践胙，命为伯。
勾践已去，渡淮南，以淮上地与楚，归吴所侵宋地于宋，与鲁泗东方百里。
当是时，越兵横行于江、淮东，诸侯毕贺，号称霸王。
范蠡遂去，自齐遗大夫种书曰： 蜚鸟尽，良弓藏；狡兔死，走狗烹。
越王为人长颈鸟喙，可与共患难，不可与共乐。子何不去？
种见书，称病不朝。
人或谗种且作乱，越王乃赐种剑曰： 子教寡人伐吴七术，寡人用其三而败吴，其四在子，子为我从先王试之。
种遂自杀。
勾践卒，子王鼫与立。
王鼫与卒，子王不寿立。
王不寿卒，子王翁立。
王翁卒，子王翳立。
王翳卒，子王之侯立。王之侯卒，子王无强立。
王无强时，越兴师北伐齐，西伐楚，与中国争强。
当楚威王之时，越北伐齐，齐威王使人说越王曰： 越不伐楚，大不王，小不伯。
图越之所为不伐楚者，为不得晋也。韩、魏固不攻楚。
韩之攻楚，覆其军，杀其将，则叶、阳翟危；魏亦覆其军，杀其将，则陈、上蔡不安。
故二晋之事越也，不至于覆军杀将，马汗之力不效。所重于得晋者何也？
越王曰： 所求于晋者，不至顿刃接兵，而况于攻城围邑乎？
愿魏以聚大梁之下，愿齐之试兵南阳莒地，以聚常、郯之境，则方城之外不南，淮、泗之间不东，商、于、析、郦、宗胡之地，夏路以左，不足以备秦，江南、泗上不足以待越矣。
则齐、秦、韩、魏得志于楚也，是二晋不战而分地，不耕而获之。
不此之为，而顿刃于河山之间以为齐秦用，所待者如此其失计，奈何其以此王也！
齐使者曰： 幸也越之不亡也！
translation: 
King Zhou Yuan sent people to reward Gou Jian with sacrificial meat and called him Uncle.
Gou Jian left Xuzhou, crossed the Huaihe River and went south. He donated the land in the Huaihe River Basin to the Chu State and returned the land that Wu had invaded from the Song State to the Song State. He donated a hundred miles of land east of Surabaya to the State of Lu.
At that time, the Yue army marched unimpeded east of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River. The princes came to celebrate, and the Yue King was called the Overlord.
Fan Li then left the King of Yue and sent a letter to Dr. Zhong from Qi. The letter said: When the birds are gone, the good bow is hidden; when the cunning rabbit dies, the running dogs are cooked.
The King of Yue is a long-necked bird with a beak. You can only share adversity with him, but you cannot share happiness with him. Why don't you leave?
After reading the letter, Zhong claimed that he was ill and would no longer go to court.
Someone slandered Zhong and was about to cause rebellion. The King of Yue rewarded Zhong with a sword and said: You taught me seven strategies to attack Wu. I only used three of them to defeat Wu. The four are still with you. Go to the late king for me and try those four!
Zhong then committed suicide.
Gou Jian died, and his son Wang Yaoyu ascended the throne.
Wang Junyu died, and his son Wang Bushou came to the throne.
Wang Bushou died and his son Wang Weng came to the throne.
Wang Weng died and his son Wang Yi came to the throne.
When Wang Yi died, his son Wang Zhihou came to the throne. When Wang Zhihou died, his son Wang Wuqiang came to the throne.
When King Wuqiang of Yue was on the throne, Yue sent troops to attack Qi to the north and Chu to the west, competing with other countries in the Central Plains for victory.
During the reign of King Wei of Chu, the State of Yue attacked the State of Qi. King Qi Wei sent people to persuade the King of Yue, saying: If the State of Yue does not attack the State of Chu, it will not be able to become king in a big way, and it will not be hegemonic in a small way.
It is estimated that the reason why Yue did not attack Chu was because it could not get the support of Han and Wei. Han and Wei did not attack Chu in the first place.
If South Korea attacks Chu, its army will be destroyed, its generals will be killed, and Ye and Yangzhai will be in danger; if Wei attacks Chu, its army will be destroyed, its generals will be killed, and Chen and Shangcai will not be stable.
Therefore, if Han and Wei serve Yue, their army will not be destroyed, their generals will not be killed, and their hard work will not be revealed. Why do you value the support of Han and Wei?
The King of Yue said: What I ask of Han and Wei is not to engage in a life-and-death fight with the Chu army, let alone to allow them to attack the city and besiege the city.
I hope that the Wei army will gather under Daliang City, and the Qi army will train in Nanyang and Ju, and gather at the border of Chang and Tan. Then the Chu army outside Fangcheng will no longer go south, and the Chu army between Huai and Si will no longer go east.
Then, the four kingdoms of Qi, Qin, Han, and Wei can realize their wishes in Chu. In this way, Han and Wei can expand their territory without fighting, and can harvest without cultivating.
Now, Han and Wei do not do this, but they attack each other between the Yellow River and Huashan, and are used by Qi and Qin. The expected Han and Wei were so misguided, how could they rely on them to become kings!
The envoy of Qi State said: It's a lucky thing that Yue State did not perish!


Chunk 5: 
original: 
吾不贵其用智之如目，见豪毛而不见其睫也。
今王知晋之失计，而不自知越之过，是目论也。
王所待于晋者，非有马汗之力也，又非可与合军连和也，将待之以分楚众也。
今楚众已分，何待于晋？
越王曰： 奈何？
曰： 楚三大夫张九军，北围曲沃、于中，以至无假之关者三千七百里，景翠之军北聚鲁、齐、南阳，分有大此者乎？
且王之所求者，斗晋楚也；晋楚不斗，越兵不起，是知二五而不知十也。
此时不攻楚，臣以是知越大不王，小不伯。
复雠、庞、长沙，楚之粟也；竟泽陵，楚之材也。
越窥兵通无假之关，此四邑者不上贡事于郢矣。
臣闻之，图王不王，其敝可以伯。
然而不伯者，王道失也。
故愿大王之转攻楚也。
于是越遂释齐而伐楚。
楚威王兴兵而伐之，大败越，杀王无强，尽取故吴地至浙江，北破齐于徐州。
而越以此散，诸族子争立，或为王，或为君，滨于江南海上，服朝于楚。
后七世，至闽君摇，佐诸侯平秦。
汉高帝复以摇为越王，以奉越后。
东越，闽君，皆其后也。
范蠡事越王勾践，既苦身戮力，与勾践深谋二十余年，竟灭吴，报会稽之耻，北渡兵于淮以临齐、晋，号令中国，以尊周室，勾践以霸，而范蠡称上将军。
还反国，范蠡以为大名之下，难以久居，且勾践为人可与同患，难与处安，为书辞勾践曰： 臣闻主忧臣劳，主辱臣死。
昔者君王辱于会稽，所以不死，为此事也。
今既以雪耻，臣请从会稽之诛。
勾践曰： 孤将与子分国而有之。
不然，将加诛于子。 范蠡曰： 君行令，臣行意。
乃装其轻宝珠玉，自与其私徒属乘舟浮海以行，终不反。于是勾践表会稽山以为范蠡奉邑。
范蠡浮海出齐，变姓名，自谓鸱夷子皮，耕于海畔，苦身戮力，父子治产。
translation: 
I don't value their use of wisdom, because that wisdom is like eyes. Although they can see the hairs, they cannot see their own eyelashes.
Today the king knows that Han and Wei made a mistake, but does not know his own fault. This is the metaphor of eyes that can see the hair but cannot see their own eyelashes.
What the king expected from Han and Wei was not to gain their contribution, nor to unite with the Han and Wei coalition forces, but to disperse the strength of the Chu army.
Now that the Chu army has dispersed, why should it ask for help from Han and Wei?
The king of Yue said: What should I do?
The envoy said: The three great officers of the Chu State have divided all their troops and surrounded Quwo and Yuzhong to the north until Wuxiaguan. The total length of the battle line is 3,700 miles. Jingcui's army has gathered in the north of Lu, Qi, and Nanyang. Is there any force that can exceed this dispersion?
Moreover, what the king wants is to make Jin and Chu fight. If Jin and Chu do not fight, and Yue does not send troops, then he only knows two fives but does not know ten.
At this time, I did not attack the Chu State. Therefore, I judged that the King of Yue did not want to be king in a big way, but he did not want to be hegemony in a small way.
Besides, Jiu, Pang, and Changsha are areas rich in grain in Chu State, and Jingzeling is an area rich in timber in Chu State.
If the State of Yue sends troops to clear the Wuxian Pass, these four places will no longer be able to contribute food and materials to the capital of Ying.
I've heard that people who plan to be king can't be king, but they can still be king.
However, those who cannot dominate will lose their royal power completely.
Therefore, I sincerely hope that you will attack Chu instead.
So Yue gave up Qi and attacked Chu.
King Chu Wei sent troops to attack the Yue army, defeated the Yue army, killed the Yue King Wuqiang, captured all the land from Wu to Zhejiang, and defeated the Qi army in Xuzhou in the north.
From then on, the Yue Kingdom fell apart, and the children of various ethnic groups competed for power. Some claimed the title of king, and some claimed the title of emperor. They lived on the coast south of the Yangtze River and paid tribute to the Chu Kingdom obediently.
Seven generations later, the throne passed to Fujian Junyao, who assisted the princes to overthrow the Qin Dynasty.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty resumed his role as the king of Yue and continued the worship of the country of Yue.
Dongyue and Minjun are both descendants of Yue.
Fan Li served King Gou Jian of Yue, worked hard physically and mentally, and tried his best to plan with Gou Jian for more than 20 years. Finally, he destroyed the state of Wu and wiped out the shame of Kuaiji. The Vietnamese army marched north to the Huaihe River and approached the borders of Qi and Shanxi. They ordered all the countries in the Central Plains to respect the Zhou Dynasty and make Gou Jian the hegemon. Fan Li became the general.
After returning home, Fan Li thought that it would be difficult to live long under such a great reputation. Moreover, Gou Jian was a man who could share hardships with him but not happiness with him. He wrote a farewell letter to Gou Jian and said: I heard that when the king is worried, his ministers will work hard, and when the king is insulted, his ministers will die.
You were humiliated in Kuaiji in the past, and the reason why I didn't die was to avenge you.
Now that I have avenged my humiliation, I beg you to grant me the death penalty for the humiliation my lord suffered in Kuaiji.
Gou Jian said: I will divide the country of Yue equally with you. Otherwise, you will be blamed.
Fan Li said: The monarch can carry out your orders, but the ministers still follow their own wishes.
So he packed up the fine jewelry and left by boat with his entourage, never returning to Yue. In recognition of Fan Li, Gou Jian made Kuaiji Mountain his fief.
Fan Li took a boat and drifted across the sea to the state of Qi. He changed his name and surname and called himself "Gui Yi Zipi". He farmed on the seaside, endured hardships and worked hard to produce, and his father and son worked together to manage the industry.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
居无几何，致产数十万。
齐人闻其贤，以为相。
范蠡喟然叹曰： 居家则致千金，居官则至卿相，此布衣之极也。
久受尊名，不祥。
乃归相印，尽散其财，以分与知友乡党，而怀其重宝，间行以去，止于陶。
以为此天下之中，交易有无之路通，为生可以致富矣。
于是自谓陶朱公。
复约要父子耕畜，废居，候时转物，逐什一之利。
居无何，则致赀累巨万。
天下称陶朱公。
朱公居陶，生少子。
少子及壮，而朱公中男杀人，囚于楚。
朱公曰： 杀人而死，职也。
然吾闻千金之子不死于市。
告其少子往视之。
乃装黄金千溢，置褐器中，载以一牛车。
且遣其少子，朱公长男固请欲行，朱公不听。
长男曰： 家有长子曰 家督 ，今弟有罪，大人不遣，乃遣少弟，是吾不肖。
欲自杀。
其母为言曰： 今遣少子，未必能生中子也，而先空亡长男，奈何？
朱公不得已而遣长子，为一封书遗故所善庄生，曰： 至则进千金于庄生所，听其所为，慎无与争事。
长男既行，亦自私赍数百金。
至楚，庄生家负郭，披藜藋到门，居甚贫。
然长男发书进千金，如其父言。
庄生曰： 可疾去矣，慎毋留！
即弟出，勿问所以然。
长男既去，不过庄生而私留，以其私赍献遗楚国贵人用事者。
庄生虽居穷阎，然以廉直闻于国，自楚王以下皆师尊之。
及朱公进金，非有意受也，欲以成事后复归之以为信耳。
translation: 
After living there for a short time, he accumulated hundreds of thousands of property.
The people of Qi heard that he was a virtuous man and made him prime minister.
Fan Li sighed and said: If you live at home, you can accumulate thousands of gold and property, and if you become an official, you can reach the high position of minister. This is the highest status that ordinary people can achieve.
It is unlucky to enjoy a distinguished name for a long time.
So he returned the seal and distributed all his property to his close friends, fellow villagers and neighbors. He took the valuables with him and left secretly to live in Taodi.
He believed that this was the center of the world, with smooth roads for transactions and that one could make a fortune by doing business.
So he called himself Tao Zhu Gong.
It was also agreed that both father and son would farm and raise livestock, and wait for the opportunity when buying and selling, so as to obtain one-tenth of the profit.
Soon after, the family assets accumulated to tens of millions.
Everyone in the world praises Tao Zhugong.
Zhu Gong lived in Taodi and gave birth to a young son.
When the younger son became an adult, Zhu Gong's second son killed someone and was arrested by the state of Chu.
Zhu Gong said: It is common sense that those who kill will be punished by death.
But I heard that children with rich families will not be killed in the busy city.
So he asked his youngest son to visit Chu State.
So he took out a thousand yi of gold, put them in brown utensils, and carried them on an ox cart.
When he was about to send his younger son to go on an errand, Zhu Gong's eldest son firmly requested to go, but Zhu Gong did not agree.
The eldest son said: The eldest son in the family is called the family governor. Now that the younger brother has committed a crime, the father does not send the eldest son, but the younger brother. This shows that I am an unworthy son.
The eldest son said that he wanted to commit suicide.
His mother then said for him: If you send your younger son now, you may not be able to save your second son's life, but you will lose your eldest son first. How can that be okay?
Zhu Gong had no choice but to send his eldest son and wrote a letter to his old friend Zhuang Sheng. He also said to the eldest son: After arriving in Chu, I will send the daughter to Zhuang Sheng's house. Listen to him and do not have any disputes with him.
When the eldest son left, he also took several hundred yi of gold with him privately.
The eldest son arrived in Chu State and saw Zhuang Sheng's house close to the outer city of Chu Capital. He had to push back the weeds to reach Zhuang Sheng's house. Zhuang Sheng's living conditions were very poor.
But the eldest son still opened the letter and donated a thousand pieces of gold to Zhuang Sheng, exactly as his father asked.
Zhuang Sheng said: You can leave as soon as possible, but don't stay here!
When your brother is released, don’t ask why.
The eldest son left Zhuang Sheng's house and no longer visited Zhuang Sheng. However, he stayed in Chu State privately and gave the gold he carried to the dignitaries in charge of Chu State.
Although Zhuang Sheng lived in a poor alley, he was well-known in Chu State for his integrity and integrity, and everyone from the King of Chu on down respected him as their teacher.
Zhu Gong offered the gold, but he did not accept it intentionally. He just wanted to return it to Zhu Gong after the work was completed to show his trustworthiness.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
故金至，谓其妇曰： 此朱公之金。有如病不宿诫，后复归，勿动。 而朱公长男不知其意，以为殊无短长也。
庄生闲时入见楚王，言 某星宿某，此则害于楚 。
楚王素信庄生，曰： 今为奈何？
庄生曰： 独以德为可以除之。
楚王曰： 生休矣，寡人将行之。
王乃使使者封三钱之府。
楚贵人惊告朱公长男曰： 王且赦。
曰： 何以也？
曰： 每王且赦，常封三钱之府。
昨暮王使使封之。
朱公长男以为赦，弟固当出也，重千金虚弃庄生，无所为也，乃复见庄生。
庄生惊曰： 若不去邪？
长男曰： 固未也。
初为事弟，弟今议自赦，故辞生去。
庄生知其意欲复得其金，曰： 若自入室取金。
长男即自入室取金持去，独自欢幸。
庄生羞为儿子所卖，乃入见楚王曰： 臣前言某星事，王言欲以修德报之。
今臣出，道路皆言陶之富人朱公之子杀人囚楚，其家多持金钱赂王左右，故王非能恤楚国而赦，乃以朱公子故也。
楚王大怒曰： 寡人虽不德耳，奈何以朱公之子故而施惠乎！
令论杀朱公子，明日遂下赦令。
朱公长男竟持其弟丧归。
至，其母及邑人尽哀之，唯朱公独笑，曰： 吾固知必杀其弟也！
彼非不爱其弟，顾有所不能忍者也。
是少与我俱，见苦，为生难，故重弃财。
至如少弟者，生而见我富，乘坚驱良逐狡兔，岂知财所从来，故轻弃之，非所惜吝。
前日吾所为欲遣少子，固为其能弃财故也。而长者不能，故卒以杀其弟，事之理也，无足悲者。
吾日夜固以望其丧之来也。
translation: 
So after the gold was delivered, he said to his wife: This is Zhu Gong's money. I will return it to Zhu Gong in full in the future, but I don't know when I will return it. This is just like I can't tell others in advance when I get sick. Don't use it. But Zhu Gong's eldest son didn't know what Zhuang Sheng meant, and thought that giving the property to Zhuang Sheng would not have any effect.
Zhuang Sheng took the opportunity to go to the palace to meet the King of Chu and said: "A certain star has moved to a certain place, which will be harmful to the Chu State."
The King of Chu usually trusted Zhuang Sheng very much, so he asked: What should we do now?
Zhuang Sheng said: Only by practicing benevolence and righteousness can disaster be avoided.
The King of Chu said: "You don't need to say more, I will do it."
The king of Chu sent an envoy to seal the warehouse where three coins were stored.
The dignitaries of Chu State were surprised and told Duke Zhu's eldest son: The King of Chu will implement a general amnesty.
The eldest son asked: How can you see it?
The noble man said: Whenever the King of Chu grants amnesty, he often seals up the warehouse where three coins are stored.
The King of Chu sent an envoy to seal it last night.
The eldest son of Zhu Gong thought that since the amnesty was granted, his younger brother could naturally be released. One thousand yi gold was equivalent to wasting Zhuang Sheng and had no effect, so he went to see Zhuang Sheng again.
Zhuang Sheng asked in surprise: "Didn't you leave?"
The eldest son said: He never left.
I came here because of my younger brother. Today, the State of Chu is discussing amnesty, and my younger brother will naturally be released, so I came here specifically to say goodbye to you.
Zhuang Sheng knew that he wanted to get the gold back, so he said, "Go to the room and get the gold yourself."
The eldest son broke into the house, took away the gold and left Zhuang Sheng, secretly rejoicing that the gold was recovered.
Zhuang Sheng felt deeply ashamed that he had been betrayed by his younger generation, so he went to the palace again to meet with the King of Chu and said: "What I told you about a certain star last time, you said you wanted to repay it by doing good deeds."
Now, I heard from passers-by outside that the son of the rich Taoist Zhu Gong was imprisoned by Chu after killing someone. His family sent people to bribe the people around the king of Chu with a lot of money. Therefore, the king did not implement the amnesty out of sympathy for the people of Chu, but he gave the amnesty because of Zhu Gong's son.
The King of Chu was furious and said: Although I am not virtuous, how could I give favors to Duke Zhu's son?
He ordered Zhu Gong's son to be killed first, and then issued an edict of pardon the next day.
The eldest son of Lord Zhu had no choice but to carry his younger brother's body home.
After returning home, my mother and neighbors were all very sad. Only Mr. Zhu laughed and said: I knew that the eldest son would not be able to save his younger brother!
It's not that he doesn't love his brother, he just has something he can't bear to give up.
He has lived with me since he was young, has experienced all kinds of hardships, and knows how difficult it is to make a living, so he values ​​money very seriously and does not dare to spend money easily.
As for my little brother, he has only seen me being extremely wealthy since he was born. He rides in fine cars, drives thousands of miles of horses, and goes hunting in the countryside. He doesn’t know where the money comes from, so he takes money very lightly and throws it away without mercy.
It turned out that I planned to let the younger son go because he was willing to give up money, but the eldest son couldn't give up money, and ended up killing his younger brother. This is reasonable and not worthy of grief.
What I was looking forward to day and night was for my second son’s body to be returned.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故范蠡三徙，成名于天下，非苟去而已，所止必成名。
卒老死于陶，故世传曰陶朱公。
太史公曰：禹之功大矣，渐九川，定九州，至于今诸夏艾安。
及苗裔勾践，苦身焦思，终灭强吴，北观兵中国，以尊周室，号称霸王。
勾践可不谓贤哉！
盖有禹之遗烈焉。
范蠡三迁皆有荣名，名垂后世。
臣主若此，欲毋显得乎！
translation: 
Fan Li moved three times and became famous all over the world. He didn't just leave somewhere randomly. He became famous wherever he lived.
In the end, he died of old age in Taodi, so people in the world called him Tao Zhugong.
Tai Shigong said: Xia Yu's contribution was great. He channeled the nine great rivers and stabilized the land of Kyushu. To this day, the whole of Kyushu is safe and sound.
When his descendant Gou Jian arrived, he worked hard and thought far, and finally destroyed the powerful Wu State, marched north to the Central Plains, worshiped the Zhou Dynasty, and became the overlord.
Can you say that you are not virtuous?
This is probably the legacy of Xia Yu.
Fan Li moved three times and left a glorious reputation that will last forever.
Is it possible for a minister and a monarch to do this without becoming famous?


