Summary line 0
Span: 0-28 (score=0.6377)

original:
乃访募天下，有能得犬戎之将吴将军头者，购黄金千镒，邑万家，又妻以少女。
时帝有畜狗，其毛五采，名曰槃瓠。
下令之后，槃瓠遂衔人头造阙下，群臣怪而诊之，乃吴将军首也。
帝大喜，而计槃瓠不可妻之以女，又无封爵之道，议欲有报而未知所宜。
女闻之，以为帝皇下令，不可违信，因请行。
帝不得已，乃以女配槃瓠。
槃瓠得女，负而走入南山，止石室中。
所处险绝，人迹不至。
于是女解去衣裳，为仆鉴之结，着独力之衣。
帝悲思之，遣使寻求，辄遇风雨震晦，使者不得进。
经三年，生子一十二人，六男六女。
槃瓠死后，因自相夫妻。
织绩木皮，染以草实，好五色衣服。制裁皆有尾形。
其母后归，以状白帝，于是使迎致诸子。
衣裳班兰，语言侏离，好入山壑，不乐平旷。
帝顺其意，赐以名山广泽。
其后滋蔓，号曰蛮夷。
外痴内黠，安土重旧。
以先父有功，母帝之女，田作贾贩，无关梁符传、租税之赋。
有邑君长，皆赐印绶，冠用獭皮。
名渠帅曰精夫，相呼为徒。
今长沙武陵蛮是也。
其在唐、虞，与之要质，故曰要服。
夏、商之时，渐为边患。
逮于周世，党众弥盛。
宣王中兴，乃命方叔南伐蛮方，诗人所谓 蛮荆来威 者也。
又曰： 蠢尔蛮荆，大邦为仇。
明其党众繁多，是以抗敌诸夏也。
平王东迁，蛮遂侵暴上国。

translation:
In the past, the Quan Rong invaded during the reign of Gao Xin. The emperor was worried because of the cruelty of the Quan Rong, but he could not win against the Quan Rong. So he searched and recruited people all over the world. Anyone who could get the head of General Wu, the general of Quanrong, would be rewarded with a thousand yi of gold, a fief of 10,000 households, and his youngest daughter would be married to him.
At that time, the emperor had a dog with five-colored hair named Jiahu.
After the emperor gave the order, Panhu carried the head to the palace gate. The officials were surprised. When they looked at it, they found it was General Wu's head.
The emperor was very happy, but he considered that he could not marry his daughter to Panhu, and there was no reason to give an official title to a dog. He wanted to repay the dog but did not know how to do it.
When the daughter found out, she thought that the emperor had given an order and she could not violate her faith, so she asked to marry Panhu.
The emperor had no choice but to marry his daughter to Panhu.
After Panhu got the emperor's daughter, he carried her to Nanshan and lived in Shidongbao.
The place where Panhu is located is dangerous, isolated and inaccessible to humans.
So the emperor's daughter took off her clothes, combed her hair into a bun like a servant, and put on independent clothes.
The emperor missed his daughter and was very sad. He sent envoys to look for her, but they were always met with wind, rain, thunder and darkness, and the envoys could not move forward.
After three years, she gave birth to twelve children, six boys and six girls.
After Panhu died, the children married each other.
They weave clothes from tree bark and dye their clothes with fruits and vegetables. They like to wear colorful clothes, and the clothes are all shaped like tails.
Their mother later came back and informed the emperor of the situation, so the emperor sent envoys to fetch the children.
The colors of their clothes are mixed and bright, and their voices are difficult to distinguish. They like to hide in high mountains and deep valleys, and do not like to live in open areas.
The emperor complied with their wishes and gave them famous mountains and swamps.
From then on, their race multiplied and became known as barbarians.
They are dull on the outside but smart on the inside. They live in their own country and value old customs.
Because their father had meritorious service and their mother was the daughter of the emperor, they farmed and did business. They could enter and leave the Guanmen Bridge without a letter, and they did not need to pay taxes.
All the leaders of the city were given seals and ribbons by the imperial court, and their crowns were made of otter skin.
They call the big leader "Jingfu" and call each other "Quitu".
The current Changsha Wulingman are their descendants.
In the era of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, they established alliances with the barbarians, so they called the barbarians to be subdued.
During the Xia and Shang dynasties, barbarians gradually became a scourge on the border.
By the Zhou Dynasty, the barbarian race gradually became stronger.
King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty was resurrected, so he ordered Uncle Fang to go south to conquer the barbarian areas, which the poet called "the barbarians came in fear of submission".
He also said: The stupid and arrogant barbarians actually became enemies of the great country.
This shows that the barbarian race is prosperous, so it competes with the Chinese enemies.
King Ping of Zhou moved away from home, and the barbarians invaded and ravaged the Central Plains.

summary:
During the reign of Gao Xin, the Quan Rong invaded, and the emperor offered rewards for the head of their general, General Wu. The emperor's five-colored dog, Panhu, brought the general's head. Unable to marry his daughter to a dog, the emperor was troubled, but his daughter insisted on honoring the promise and married Panhu. They lived in Nanshan, where she bore twelve children, six boys and six girls. After Panhu's death, the children intermarried, and their descendants became known as barbarians. They wore colorful clothes with tail-like shapes, lived in remote mountains, and were granted famous mountains and swamps by the emperor. Their leaders received seals from the imperial court, and they were exempt from taxes. The current Changsha Wulingman are their descendants.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 21-64 (score=0.6042)

original:
今长沙武陵蛮是也。
其在唐、虞，与之要质，故曰要服。
夏、商之时，渐为边患。
逮于周世，党众弥盛。
宣王中兴，乃命方叔南伐蛮方，诗人所谓 蛮荆来威 者也。
又曰： 蠢尔蛮荆，大邦为仇。
明其党众繁多，是以抗敌诸夏也。
平王东迁，蛮遂侵暴上国。
晋文侯辅政，乃率蔡共侯击破之。
至楚武王时，蛮与罗子共败楚师，杀其将屈瑕。
庄王初立，民饥兵弱，复为所寇。
楚师既振。然后乃服，自是遂属于楚。
鄢陵之役，蛮与恭王合兵击晋。
及吴起相悼王，南并蛮越，遂有洞庭、苍梧。
秦昭王使白起伐楚，略取蛮夷，始置黔中郡。
汉兴，改为武陵。
岁令大人输布一匹，小口二丈，是谓賨布。
虽时为寇盗，而不足为郡国患。
光武中兴，武陵蛮夷特盛。
建武二十三年，精夫相单程等据其险隘，大寇郡县。
遣武威将军刘尚发南郡、长沙、武陵兵万余人，乘船溯沅水，入武谿击之。
尚轻敌入险，山深水疾，舟船不得上。
蛮氏知尚粮少入远，又不晓道径，遂屯聚守险。
尚食尽引还，蛮缘路徼战，尚军大败，悉为所没。
二十四年，相单程等下攻临沅，遣谒者李嵩、中山太守马成击之，不能克。
明年春，遣伏波将军马援、中郎将刘匡、马武、孙永等，将兵至临沅，击破之。
单程等饥困乞降，会援病卒，谒者宗均听悉受降。
为置吏司，群蛮遂平。
肃宗建初元年，武陵澧中蛮陈从等反叛，入零阳蛮界。
其冬，零阳蛮五里精夫为郡击破从，从等皆降。
三年冬，溇中蛮覃兒健等复反，攻烧零阳、作唐、孱陵界中。
明年春，发荆州七郡及汝南、颍川弛刑徒吏士五千余人，拒守零阳，募充中五里蛮精夫不叛者四千人，击澧中贼。
五年春，覃兒健等请降，不许。
和帝永元四年冬，溇中、澧中蛮潭戎等反，燔烧邮亭，杀略吏民，郡兵击破降之。
安帝元初二年，澧中蛮以郡县徭税失平，怀怨恨，遂结充中诸种二千余人，攻城杀长吏。
州郡募五里蛮六亭兵追击破之，皆散降。
赐五里、六亭渠帅金帛各有差。
明年秋，溇中、澧中蛮四千人并为盗贼。
又零陵蛮羊孙、陈汤等千余人，著赤帻，称将军，烧官寺，抄掠百姓。
州郡募善蛮讨平之。
顺帝永和元年，武陵太守上书，以蛮夷率服，可比汉人，增其租赋。
议者皆以为可。
尚书令虞诩独奏曰： 自古圣王，不臣异俗，非德不能及，威不能加，知其兽心贪婪，难率以礼。
是故縻而绶抚之，附则受而不逆，叛则弃而不追。

translation:
The current Changsha Wulingman are their descendants.
In the era of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, they established alliances with the barbarians, so they called the barbarians to be subdued.
During the Xia and Shang dynasties, barbarians gradually became a scourge on the border.
By the Zhou Dynasty, the barbarian race gradually became stronger.
King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty was resurrected, so he ordered Uncle Fang to go south to conquer the barbarian areas, which the poet called "the barbarians came in fear of submission".
He also said: The stupid and arrogant barbarians actually became enemies of the great country.
This shows that the barbarian race is prosperous, so it competes with the Chinese enemies.
King Ping of Zhou moved away from home, and the barbarians invaded and ravaged the Central Plains.
Marquis Wen of Jin assisted the government and led Marquis Cai Gong to defeat the barbarians.
When King Wu of Chu arrived, the barbarians and Luo Zi defeated the Chu army and killed the Chu army general Qu Xia.
King Chuzhuang had just succeeded to the throne, the people were hungry, the army was weak, and he was invaded by barbarians again.
After the Chu army became stronger, the barbarians obeyed, and from then on the barbarians belonged to the Chu state.
After the battle at Yanling, the Luan people and King Chu Jie jointly attacked Zili.
He went to Yuqi to assist King Chu Miao, and annexed Manyue to the south, thus occupying Dongting and Cangwu.
King Zhao of Qin sent Bai Qi to attack Chu, captured the barbarians, and began to establish Qianzhong County.
After the prosperity of the Han Dynasty, Qianzhong County was changed to Wuling County.
Every year, barbarian adults are required to pay a piece of cloth, and children are required to pay two feet of cloth. This is called Yuan cloth.
Although barbarians invaded from time to time, they were not enough to cause disaster to the county.
After the resurgence of Rentiao, Manlou in Gendi became particularly powerful.
In the 23rd year of Jianjian's reign, Jingfu Xiang Shancheng and others took advantage of the barbarian terrain to launch a massive attack on counties.
Guangwu sent Wuwei General Liu Shang to mobilize more than 10,000 troops from Nanjun, Changsha and Jianlu. They took boats upstream from Yuancheng to Wuxi to attack Xiang Xiang.
Liu Shang underestimated the enemy and entered a dangerous area. The mountains were deep and the water was fast, making it impossible for the ship to move forward.
The barbarians knew that Liu Shang did not have enough food, the road was far away, and they did not know the route, so they gathered troops to guard the dangerous terrain.
After Liu Shang ran out of food, he withdrew his troops. The barbarians intercepted them along the way. Liu Shang's army was defeated and the entire army was wiped out.
In the twenty-fourth year, Xiang Shancheng and others went downstream to attack Linyuan. The imperial court sent Li Song, the emissary, and Ma Cheng, the prefect of Zhongshan, to attack Xiang Shancheng, but they could not win.
In the spring of the next year, the imperial court sent Fubo General Ma Yuan, Zhonglang General Liu Kuang, Ma Wu, Sun Yong and others to lead their troops to Linyuan and defeated Xiang Shancheng.
Xiang Shancheng and others were hungry and impoverished, and asked for surrender. Ma Yuan happened to die of illness, and Yezhe Zongjun accepted the surrender of all their troops.
The imperial court established government officials among the barbarians, and the barbarians were pacified.
In the first year of Emperor Suzong's founding, Chen Cong and others from Wuling and Lizhong rebelled and entered the realm of Lingyang Barbarians.
In the winter of this year, Lingyang Man Wuli Jingfu defeated Chen Cong for the county, and Chen Cong and others all surrendered.
In the winter of the third year, Qin Erjian and others from Mizhong rebelled again and attacked and burned the boundaries of Linyang, Zuotang and Xiaoling.
In the spring of the next year, the imperial court recruited seven counties in Jingzhou and Runan and Ying! There were more than 5,000 prisoners, officials and soldiers who had been released from the shackles. They resisted the defense in Lingyang. They recruited 4,000 Wuli barbarians and barbarians who had not rebelled to attack the bandits in Lizhong.
In the spring of the fifth year, Qin Erjian and others requested surrender, but were not granted.
The county guard took this opportunity to march in and fight with Tan Erjian at Hongxia. He defeated Tan Erjian and beheaded him. The rest of the people abandoned the barracks and fled back to Qizhong. They sent people to ask for surrender, and then they accepted their surrender.
So he withdrew the garrison in Wuling and gave various rewards to the officers and soldiers. In the winter of the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan, the Qizhong Man, Lizhong Man Tan Rong and others rebelled, burning down the posthouse, killing and plundering officials and people. The county troops defeated Tan Rong. Force him to surrender. In the second year of Emperor An's reign, the Lizhong barbarians were resentful because the county's corvée taxation was unfair, so they jointly charged more than 2,000 barbarians from various tribes, attacked the city, and killed state and county officials.
The prefectures and counties recruited troops from Wuli Man and Liuting to pursue them and defeated the Lizhong Man and others. They all broke up and surrendered.
The imperial court rewarded the leaders of Wuliman and Liuting with different amounts of gold and silk.
In the autumn of the second year, four thousand people from Zhongzhong and Lizhong became bandits together.
There were also more than a thousand people, including Lingling Man Yangsun and Chen Tang, who wore red scarves and claimed to be generals. They burned down the government offices and looted the people.
The states and counties recruited obedient barbarians to attack and pacify the rebellious barbarians.
In the first year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Shun, the prefect of Wuling wrote a letter, believing that since the barbarians surrendered, their taxes could be increased like those of the Han people.
Everyone who participated in the deliberations agreed that it was feasible.
Only Shangshu Ling Yu Xie Jin said: Since ancient times, the wise emperor has not allowed people with different customs to have the same requirements. It is not that morality cannot affect them and force cannot be used against them, but because they know that their hearts are as greedy as wild beasts and it is difficult to guide them with etiquette and justice.
You can win over and appease them. If they surrender, they will accept it but not welcome it. If they rebel, they will give up without pursuing it.

summary:
During the Zhou Dynasty, the barbarian race grew stronger. King Xuan sent Uncle Fang to conquer them. King Ping moved east, and barbarians invaded the Central Plains. Marquis Wen of Jin defeated them. King Wu of Chu faced barbarian attacks, and King Zhuang later subdued them. After the Han Dynasty's rise, Wuling County was established, and barbarian adults paid one piece of cloth annually, children two feet. During the Jianwu period, Jingfu Xiang Shancheng led a massive attack. General Liu Shang was defeated with his entire army. Ma Yuan later defeated Xiang Shancheng, who surrendered. In subsequent years, various barbarian groups rebelled, including Chen Cong, Qin Erjian, and Tan Rong. The court often recruited obedient barbarians to suppress rebellions. In Yonghe's first year, the prefect of Wuling proposed increasing taxes like those of Han people. Shangshu Ling Yu Xie Jin warned against this, but the emperor did not listen. The barbarians rebelled, killing officials. Li Jin was sent to pacify them, serving nine years in Wuling.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 69-117 (score=0.5635)

original:
其冬、澧中、溇中蛮果争贡布非旧约，遂杀乡吏，举种反叛。
明年春，蛮二万人围充城，八千人寇夷道。
遣武陵太守李进讨破之，斩首数百级，余皆降服。
进乃简选良吏，得其情和。
在郡九年，梁太后临朝，下诏增进秩二千石，赐钱二十万。
桓帝元嘉元年秋，武陵蛮詹山等四千余人反叛，拘执县令，屯结深山。
至永兴元年，太守应奉以恩信招诱，皆悉降散。
永寿三年十一月，长沙蛮反叛，屯益阳。
至延熹三年秋，遂抄掠郡界，众至万余人，杀伤长吏。
又零陵蛮入长沙。
冬，武陵蛮六千余人寇江陵，荆州刺史刘度、谒者马睦、南郡太守李肃皆奔走。
肃主簿胡爽扣马首谏曰： 蛮夷见郡无儆备，故敢乘间而进。
明府为国大臣，连城千里，举旄鸣鼓，应声十万，奈何委符守之重，而为逋逃之人乎！
肃拔刃向爽曰： 掾促去！
太守今急，何此计。
爽抱马固谏，肃遂杀爽而走。
帝闻之，征肃弃市，度、睦减死一等，复爽门闾，拜家一人为郎。
于是以右校令度尚为荆州刺史，讨长沙贼，平之。
又遣车骑将军冯绲讨武陵蛮，并皆降散。
军还，贼复寇桂阳，太守瘳析奔走。
武陵蛮亦更攻其郡，太守陈奉率吏人击破之，斩首三千余级，降者二千余人。
至灵帝中平三年，武陵蛮复叛，寇郡界，州郡击破之。
《礼记》称 南方曰蛮，雕题交阯 。
其俗男女同川而浴，故曰交阯。
其西有人国，生首子辄解而食之，谓之宜弟。
味旨，则以遗其君，君喜而赏其父。
取妻美，则让其兄。
今乌浒人是也。
交阯之南有越裳国。
周公居摄六年，制礼作乐，天下和平，越裳以三象重译而献白雉，曰： 道路悠远，山川深，音使不通，故重译而朝。
成王以归周公。
公曰： 德不加焉，则君子不飨其质；政不施焉，则君子不臣其人。
吾何以获此赐也！
其使请曰： 吾受命吾国之黄曰： 久矣，天之无烈风雷雨，意者中国有圣人乎？
有则盍往朝之。
周公乃归之于王，称先王之神致，以荐于宗庙。
周德既衰，于是稍绝。
及楚子称霸，朝贡百越。
秦并天下，威服蛮夷，始开领外，置南海、桂林、象郡。
汉兴，尉佗自立为南越王，传国五世。
至武帝元鼎五年，遂灭之，分置九郡，交阯刺史领焉。
其珠崖、儋耳二郡在海洲上，东西千里，南北五百里。
其渠帅贵长耳，皆穿而缒之，垂肩三寸。
武帝末，珠崖太守会稽孙幸调广幅布献之，蛮不堪役，遂攻郡杀幸。
幸子豹合率善人还，复破之，自领郡事，讨击余党，连年乃平。
豹遣使封还印绶，上书言状，制诏即以豹为珠崖太守。
威政大行，献命岁至。
中国贪其珍赂，渐相侵侮，故率数岁一反。
元帝初元三年，遂罢之。

translation:
In the winter of this year, the Lizhong and Qizhong barbarians found out that the tribute of cloth and silk was not what they had agreed upon before, so they killed the officials in the township and the whole tribe rebelled.
In the spring of the next year, 20,000 barbarians surrounded Chongcheng, and 8,000 barbarians invaded the barbarians.
The imperial court sent Li Jin, the prefect of Wuling, to conquer the area and defeated the barbarians, killing hundreds of them and the rest surrendered.
Li Jin then selected honest and capable officials to please the barbarian people.
During Li Jin's ninth year in Wuling, the Empress Dowager Liang exercised her power as emperor and issued an edict to increase Li Jin's salary to two thousand dan and reward him with two hundred thousand yuan.
In the autumn of the first year of Yuanjia under Emperor Huan, more than 4,000 people including Wuling Man Zhanshan rebelled, imprisoned the county magistrate, and gathered troops in the mountains.
In the first year of Yongxing, the prefect should be enticed to surrender with kindness and integrity, and all these barbarians surrendered and dispersed.
In November of the third year of Yongshou, the barbarians in Changsha rebelled and stationed troops in Yiyang.
In the autumn of the third year of Yanxi, the Changsha barbarians looted and looted the county, with more than 10,000 people. They killed and wounded county officials.
Lingling barbarians invaded Changsha again.
In winter, more than 6,000 Wuling barbarians invaded Jiangling. Jingzhou assassin Liu Du, visitor Ma Mu, and Nanjun prefect Li Su all escaped.
Li Su's chief secretary Hu Shuang stopped Ma Gui and said: "The barbarians saw that the county was unprepared, so they dared to take advantage of it."
You are the minister of the country, and the cities are connected for thousands of miles. If you raise the war flag and beat the war drum, there will be a hundred thousand troops who respond. Why do you give up the important responsibility of the governor and become a runaway instead?
Li Su pulled out his knife and pointed it at Hu Shuang and said: Get out of the way!
I'm in such a critical situation now that I don't have time to think about these things.
Hu Shuang hugged Ma and tried to dissuade him, but Li Su actually killed Hu Shuang and escaped.
When the emperor found out, he summoned Li Su and executed him. His body was laid out on the street. Liu Du and Ma Mu were sentenced to a reduced death penalty, and Hu Shuang and Yiliang were exempted from the corvee tax and made one of his family members a man.
So he appointed Du Shang, the right school commander, as the governor of Jingzhou, to conquer the Changsha bandits and pacify the barbarians.
He also sent the chariot and cavalry general Feng Yu to attack the Wuling barbarians, causing them all to surrender and disperse.
After the army was reorganized, the bandits invaded Guiyang again, and the prefect Liao Xi fled.
The Wuling barbarians also attacked Wuling County again. The prefect Chen Feng led the officials and people to defeat the barbarians, killing more than 3,000 people and surrendering more than 2,000 people.
In the third year of Emperor Ling's reign, the Wuling barbarians rebelled again and invaded the county boundaries. The prefectures and counties defeated the Wuling barbarians.
"Book of Rites" says that the south is called barbarian, and the people who wear it have patterns carved on their foreheads, and men and women have mixed sex.
The custom in Nahuo is that men and women bathe in the river, so it is called cross-shame.
In the country of Kanren to the west of Jiao:, the first child is always dismembered and eaten, saying that it will be good for subsequent children.
If the food tastes sweet, he brings it to the king. The king is pleased and rewards the father of the child.
He married a beautiful wife and gave it to his brother.
Today's Wuyou people are their descendants.
There is Yueshang Kingdom to the south of Jiaotu.
In the sixth year of Zhou Gong's regency, etiquette was established, music was made, and the world was at peace. An envoy from the Yueshang Kingdom rode three elephants and came to offer white wild ducks through the interpreters, saying: The road is far away, the mountains and rivers are blocked, and the messengers are blocked, so the interpreters came to see him.
King Cheng of Zhou gave the white wild bird to Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou said: If you do not show kindness to others, then the virtuous people will not enjoy the gifts of others; if the government decree is not implemented in that area, the virtuous person will not treat those people as subjects.
Why do I get such a reward!
The envoy from the Yueshang Kingdom asked: I accept the order from the elders of our country. They said: There have been no storms and thunderstorms in the sky for a long time. Is it possible that a saint has appeared in the Central Plains?
If there is a saint in the Central Plains, why not go to see him?
Duke Zhou gave the white pheasant to the emperor, praising the late king for his divine inspiration, and offered the white pheasant to the ancestral temple.
After the moral fortunes of the Zhou Dynasty weakened, the Yueshang Kingdom gradually cut off contact with them.
When the Chu State became hegemonic, it made Baiyue worship and pay tribute.
The Qin Dynasty annexed the world and used force to make the barbarians submit. Then they opened up the land outside the mountains and established Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiangjun.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Wei Tuo established himself as the King of Nanyue, which was passed down for five generations.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign, Nanyue was finally wiped out and nine counties were established separately, under the jurisdiction of Jiaoxi Governor.
Among them, Zhuya and Dan'er counties are on the island, one thousand miles long from east to west and five hundred miles long from north to south.
The barbarian chiefs in Nabu regarded long ears as noble, so they all pierced their ears and hung things on them, making their ears hang down to their shoulders, up to three inches long.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, Sun Xing from Kuaiji, the prefect of Zhuya, collected broad sheets of cloth and presented them to the court. Unable to bear the labor, the barbarians attacked the county and killed Sun Xing.
Sun Xing's son Sun Bao united with the good people and defeated the barbarians. He took charge of the county's political affairs and conquered the remaining rebel parties. It took several years to pacify Zhuya.
Sun Bao sent an envoy to seal the seal and return it to the court, and wrote a letter explaining the situation. The emperor immediately appointed Sun Bao as the prefect of Zhuya after sending a letter to Shaoshu.
Prominent decrees were generally implemented, and tributes and envoys were received every year.
The Central Plains were greedy for their treasures and property and gradually bullied them, so Zhuya rebelled every few years.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Yuan finally abolished Zhuya County.

summary:
During Emperor Huan's reign, Wuling Man Zhanshan rebelled, and Changsha barbarians looted counties with over 10,000 people. Wuling barbarians invaded Jiangling, causing officials to flee. Du Shang and Feng Yu were sent to pacify them. In Emperor Ling's third year, Wuling barbarians rebelled again. The Book of Rites describes southern barbarians as having tattooed foreheads and mixed bathing customs. In Kanren country, firstborn children were eaten, with the king receiving portions. Yueshang Kingdom sent white pheasants via elephant during Zhou Gong's regency. After Zhou's decline, Chu made Baiyue pay tribute. Qin established Nanhai, Guilin, and Xiangjun. Han conquered Nanyue in Yuanding's fifth year, establishing nine counties. Zhuya and Dan'er counties were on an island where chiefs pierced their ears to hang objects. After repeated rebellions, Zhuya was abolished in Yuan's third year.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 114-149 (score=0.4433)

original:
豹遣使封还印绶，上书言状，制诏即以豹为珠崖太守。
威政大行，献命岁至。
中国贪其珍赂，渐相侵侮，故率数岁一反。
元帝初元三年，遂罢之。
凡立郡六十五岁。
逮王莽辅政，元始二年，日南之南黄支国来献犀牛。
凡交阯所统，虽置郡县，而言语各异，重译乃通。
人如禽兽，长幼无别。
项髻徒跣，以布贯头而著之。
后颇徙中国罪人，使杂居其间，乃稍知言语，渐见礼化。
光武中兴，锡光为交阯，任延守九真，于是教其耕稼，制为冠履，初设媒娉，始知姻娶，建立学校，导之礼义。
建武十二年，九真徼外蛮里张游，率种人慕化内属，封为归汉里君。
明年，南越徼外蛮夷献白雉、白菟。
至十六年，交阯女子徵侧及其妹徵贰反，攻郡。
徵侧者，泠县雒将之女也。
嫁为朱珪人诗索妻，甚雄勇。
交阯太守苏定以法绳之，侧忿，故反。
于是九真、日南、合浦蛮里皆应之，凡略六十五城，自立为王。
交阯刺史及诸太守仅得自守。
光武乃诏长沙、合浦、交阯具车船，修道桥，通障谿，储粮谷。
十八年，遣伏波将军马援、楼船将军段志，发长沙、桂阳、零陵、苍梧兵万余人讨之。
明年夏四月，援破交阯，斩徵侧、徵贰等，余皆降散。
进击九真贼都阳等，破降之。
徙其渠帅三百余口于零陵。
于是领表悉平。
肃宗元和元年，日南徼外蛮夷究不事人邑豪献生犀、白雉。
和帝永元十二年夏四月，日南、象林蛮夷二千余人寇掠百姓，燔烧官寺，郡县发兵讨击，斩其渠帅，余众乃降。
于是置象林将兵长史，以防其患。
安帝永初元年，九真徼外夜郎蛮夷举土内属，开境千八百四十里。
元初二年，苍梧蛮夷反叛。明年，遂招诱郁林、合浦蛮汉数千人攻苍梧郡。
邓太后遣侍御史任奉诏赦之，贼皆降散。
延光元年，九真徼外蛮贡献内属。
三年，日南徼外蛮复来内属。
顺帝永建六年，日南徼外叶调王便遣使贡献，帝赐便金印紫绶。
永和二年，日南、象林徼外蛮夷区怜等数千人攻象林县，烧城寺，杀长吏。
交阯刺史樊演发交阯、九真二郡兵万余人救之。

translation:
Sun Bao sent an envoy to seal the seal and return it to the court, and wrote a letter explaining the situation. The emperor immediately appointed Sun Bao as the prefect of Zhuya after sending a letter to Shaoshu.
Prominent decrees were generally implemented, and tributes and envoys were received every year.
The Central Plains were greedy for their treasures and property and gradually bullied them, so Zhuya rebelled every few years.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Yuan finally abolished Zhuya County.
Zhuya was established as a county for a total of sixty-five years.
When Wang Mang assisted the government, in the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Huang Zhiguo from the south of Rinan County came to donate rhinos.
Although there are counties and counties in the areas under the jurisdiction of Jiaoshi, the languages ​​​​are different and require translation before communication can occur.
The people wrapped there are like animals, there is no distinction between old and young.
They put their hair in a bun at the neck, bare their feet, and covered their bodies with a cloth from head to bottom.
Later, many criminals from the Central Plains were moved there, allowing them to live mixed with the locals. Only then did they gradually understand their language, and they were gradually civilized and learned etiquette.
Guangwu Zhongxing, Xiguang served as the prefect of Jiaoxi, and Ren Yan served as the prefect of Jiuzhen. They taught the local people to cultivate fields and crops, made crowns and shoes for them, and began to establish the etiquette of matchmaking and betrothal. Only then did they know about marriage. They also built schools for them to guide them with etiquette and justice.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu, Zhang You, a manli outside the Jiuzhen border, led his fellow tribesmen to admire Jiaohua and submit to the Central Plains, and was named the Lord of Guihanli.
The next year, barbarians outside the border of South Vietnam presented white wild harlequins and white rabbits.
In the 16th year of his reign, Zheng Tie, the daughter-in-law, and her younger sister Zheng Er rebelled against Jiao Sha.
Zheng Bian was the daughter of General Luo of Luling County.
Married to Zhu Zairen Shisuo as his wife, she was very brave.
Su Ding, the prefect of Jiaoshi, brought him to justice. Zheng was angry and rebelled.
In this way, the barbarians of Jiuzhen, Nan, and Hepu all responded to Zheng Bian. They captured a total of sixty-five cities, and Zheng Bian established himself as king.
The governor of Jiaosha and the governors of various counties could only defend themselves.
Guangwu then issued an edict asking Changsha, Hepu, and Jiaoshi to prepare vehicles and ships, build roads and bridges, open up road obstacles and valleys, and reserve grain.
In the eighteenth year, General Fubo Ma Yuan and Louchuan General Duan Zhi were sent to mobilize more than 10,000 troops from Changsha, Guiyang, Lingling, and Cangwu to conquer the side.
In April of the next summer, Ma Yuan captured Jiaoxi and killed Zheng Zhi, Zheng Er and others. The rest surrendered and dispersed.
Ma Yuan advanced to attack Jiuzhen bandit Kou Duyang and others, defeated Duyang and made Duyang surrender.
Ma Yuan moved more than 300 leaders of the bandits to live in Lingling.
In this way, everything outside the ridge was pacified.
In the first year of the Yuanhe period of Emperor Suzong, the chiefs of the barbarian tribes outside the southern border of Japan presented live rhinos and white pheasants.
In the summer and April of the twelfth year of Emperor Yongyuan, more than 2,000 barbarians from Rinan and Xianglin invaded, looted the people, and burned down the government offices. The prefectures and counties sent troops to attack and killed their leaders, and the remaining troops surrendered.
So the imperial court established a history of generals and soldiers in Xianglin to prevent the barbarians from harming them.
In the first year of Emperor An's Yongchu reign, the Yelang barbarians outside the Jiuzhen border surrendered all their territory, allowing the Han Dynasty to expand its territory by 1,840 miles.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the barbarians in Cangwu rebelled. The next year, they summoned and lured thousands of barbarians and Han people from Yulin and Hepu to attack Cangwu County.
Empress Dowager Deng sent Ren Lian, the imperial censor, to issue an edict to pardon the rebels, and all the bandits surrendered and dispersed.
In the first year of Yanguang, the barbarians outside the Jiuzhen border paid tribute and submitted.
Three years later, barbarians from outside Japan's southern border came to submit again.
In the sixth year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, King Ye Tiao from outside the southern border of Japan sent an envoy to pay tribute, and the emperor gave King Ye Tiao a gold seal and purple ribbon.
In the second year of Yonghe, thousands of people including Lian Lian, a barbarian outside the border of Yunnan and Xianglin, attacked Xianglin County, burned down the city government offices, and killed county and county officials.
Fan Yan, the governor of Jiaosha, mobilized more than 10,000 troops from Jiaodu and Jiuzhen counties to rescue Xianglin.

summary:
Wang Mang received rhino tributes. Guangwu中兴时期, Xiguang and Ren Yan taught farming and established marriage rites in Jiaozhi. In Jianwu's twelfth year, Zhang You submitted. In the sixteenth year, Zheng Bian rebelled, capturing sixty-five cities. Ma Yuan defeated her in the eighteenth year. During Emperor Suzong's Yuanhe period, barbarian chiefs presented rhinos and pheasants. In Yongyuan's twelfth year, Rinan barbarians attacked, and the court established military posts. In Yongchu's first year, Yelang barbarians surrendered territory. During Emperor Shun's Yongjian period, King Ye Tiao paid tribute. In Yonghe's second year, Lian Lian attacked Xianglin. Li Gu advised against sending troops from distant provinces, recommending local officials instead. Zhu Liang and Zhang Qiao were appointed, pacifying the region. During Emperor Huan's reign, Zhu Da rebelled, and Xia Fang pacified them. In Emperor Ling's third year, Gu Yong recruited 100,000 Wuyou people.

================================================================================

Summary line 4
Span: 198-242 (score=0.5729)

original:
六年，日南徼外国复来贡献。
巴郡南郡蛮，本有五姓：巴氏、樊氏、氏，相氏，郑氏。
皆出于武落钟离山。
其山有赤黑二穴，巴氏之子生于赤穴，四姓之子皆生黑穴。
未有君长，俱事鬼神，乃共掷剑于石穴，约能中者，奉以为君。
巴氏子务相乃独中之，众皆叹。
又令各乘土船，约能浮者，当以为君。
余姓悉沉，唯务相独浮。
因共立之，是为廪君。
乃乘土船，从夷水至盐阳。
盐水有神女，谓廪君曰： 此地广大，鱼盐所出，愿留共居。
廪君不许。
盐神暮辄来取宿，旦即化为虫，与诸虫群飞，掩蔽日光，天地晦冥。
积十余日，廪君伺其便，因射杀之，天乃开明。
廪君于是君乎夷城，四姓皆臣之。
廪君死，魂魄世为白虎。
巴氏以虎饮人血，遂以人祠焉。
及秦惠王并巴中，以巴氏以蛮夷君长，世尚秦女，其民爵比不更，有罪得以爵除。
其君长岁出赋二千一十六钱，三岁一出义赋千八百钱。
其民户出布八丈二尺，鸡羽三十鍭。
汉兴，南郡太守靳强请一依秦时故事。
至建武二十三年，南郡山蛮雷迁等始反叛，寇掠百姓，遣武威将军刘尚将万余人讨破之，徙其种人七千余口置江夏界中，今沔中蛮是也。
和帝永元十三年，巫蛮许圣等以郡收税不均，怀怨恨，遂屯聚反叛。
明年夏，遣使者督荆州诸郡兵万余人讨之。
圣等依凭阻隘，久不破。
诸军乃分道并进，或自巴郡、鱼数路攻之，蛮乃散走，斩其渠帅。乘胜追之，大破圣等。
圣等乞降，复悉徙置江夏。
灵帝建宁二年，江夏蛮叛，州郡讨平之。
光和三年，江夏蛮复反，与庐江贼黄穰相连结，十余万人，攻没四县，寇患累年。
庐江太守陆康讨破之，余悉降散。
板蛮夷者，秦昭襄王时，有一白虎，常从群虎数游秦、蜀、巴、汉之境，伤害千余人。
昭王乃重募国中有能杀虎者，赏邑万家，金百镒。
时，有巴郡阆中夷人，能作白竹之弩，乃登楼射杀白虎。
昭王嘉之，而以其夷人，不欲加封，乃刻石盟要，复夷人顷田不租，十妻不算，伤人者论，杀人者得以钱赎死。
盟曰： 秦犯夷，输黄龙一双；夷犯秦，输清酒一钟。
夷人安之。
至高祖为汉王，发夷人还伐三秦。
秦地既定，乃遣还巴中，复其渠帅罗、朴、督、鄂、度、夕、龚七姓，不输租赋，余户乃岁入賨钱，口四十。
世号为板蛮珍。
阆中有渝水，其人多居水左右，天性劲勇，初为汉前锋，数陷陈。
俗喜歌舞，高祖观之，曰： 此武王伐纣之歌也。
乃命乐人习之，所谓《巴渝舞》也。
遂世世服从。
至于中兴，郡守常率以征伐。
桓帝之世，板数反，太守蜀郡赵温以恩信降服之。

translation:
Six years later, countries outside Japan's southern borders came to pay tribute again.
Bajunnanjunman originally had five surnames: Ba, Fan, Hui, Xiang, and Zheng.
They all originated from Wuluo Zhongli Mountain.
There is a red cave and a black cave in Zhongli Mountain. The children of Ba family were born in the red cave, and the children of the other four surnames were all born in the black cave.
They had no leader and all served ghosts and gods, so they threw swords into a stone cave together and agreed that whoever could hit the target would be crowned king.
Only Ba's son, Wu Xiang, was in tune with each other, and everyone was amazed.
They also asked each person to ride on a boat made of clay, and agreed that whoever could float on the water would be the king of the country.
The boats of the children with other surnames all sank, but the boat of the Prime Minister floated on the water.
So everyone jointly made him the king of the country, that is, the king of Lin.
Lin Jun then took a boat made of clay from Yishui to Yanyang.
There was a goddess in Yanyan who said to Mr. Lin: This place is vast and produces fish and salt. I hope you will stay and live together.
Lin Jun refused.
The God of Salt always came to stay with him at night, and at dawn he turned into a bug and flew with many bugs, blocking the sun and making the world dark.
After more than ten days, Lin Jun saw an opportunity and shot the Salt God with an arrow, and the sky became bright.
Lin Jun then became the king of Yicheng, and the other four surnames surrendered to him.
After Lin Jun died, his soul became a white tiger for generations.
Because tigers drank human blood, Ba Shi sacrificed living people to Lord Lin.
When King Hui of Qin annexed Bazhong, he took the Bashi as the leader of the barbarians and married Qin women for generations. The barbarian people's titles were equivalent to no replacement. If they committed crimes, they could be offset by their titles.
The barbarian leader pays an annual rental tax of 2,016 yuan, and pays a compulsory rental tax of 1,800 yuan every three years.
The people of Ba's family gave out a frightened cloth of eight feet and two feet, and a piece of hair worth thirty silver.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Jin Qiang, the governor of Nanjun, requested that all the old practices of the Qin Dynasty be followed.
In the 23rd year of Jianwu, Lei Qian and others from Lushan Mountain in Nanjun began to rebel and invade and plunder the people. The imperial court sent Wuwei General Liu Shang to lead more than 10,000 people to defeat Lei Qian, and moved more than 7000 Meishan barbarians to Jiangxia County, which is now the Mianzhong Barbarians.
In the thirteenth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Wuman Xu Sheng and others believed that the county governor's tax collection was uneven, and they were resentful, so they gathered to rebel.
In the summer of the next year, the imperial court sent envoys to inspect the troops of more than 10,000 counties in Jingzhou to attack Xu Sheng.
Because Xu Sheng and others relied on the dangerous terrain, they could not capture it for a long time.
So the troops from various groups advanced in different directions, and some attacked from Bajun and Yufu. The barbarians dispersed and fled. The Han army killed the barbarian leader, took advantage of the victory and pursued them, and defeated Xu Sheng and others.
Xu Sheng and others begged to surrender, so they were all relocated to Jiangxia again.
In the second year of Emperor Ling's reign, the Jiangxia barbarians rebelled and were conquered and put down by the prefectures and counties.
In the third year of Guanghe's reign, the Jiangxia barbarians rebelled again and joined forces with the Lujiang bandit Huang Chang. They had more than 100,000 people and captured four counties. The invasion lasted for several years.
Lu Kang, the governor of Lujiang, conquered and defeated Jiangxia Man and Huang Zhang, and the others surrendered and collapsed.
Banmei barbarians, during the reign of King Zhaoxiang of Qin, there was a white tiger that often followed other tigers to the Qin, Shu, Ba, and Han territories many times and injured more than a thousand people.
King Zhao then recruited anyone in the country who could kill the tiger with a heavy reward, and was given a fiefdom of 10,000 households and one hundred yi gold.
At that time, there was a Yi man from Yanzhong in Bajun who could make a strong bow from white bamboo. He climbed up a high building and shot the white tiger to death with an arrow.
King Zhao commended him, but because he was a barbarian, he did not want to seal him, so he carved a stone covenant and treated the barbarians preferentially. He was sealed off to a hectare of land without renting tax, and even if he had ten wives, he would not pay the settlement fee.
The two sides made an agreement: If the Qin invades the Yi people, give the Yi people a pair of brass dragons; if the Yi people invade the Qin country, give them a cup of pure wine.
The Yi people kept their covenant safely.
When Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, he mobilized the Yi people to attack the Three Qin Dynasties.
The Sanqin area had been pacified, so the Yi people were sent back to Bazhong, and their leaders, Luo, Pu, Du, E, Du, Xi, and Gong, were exempted from rent and taxes. Other households paid 40 qian per year.
They have been called Banmei barbarians for generations.
There is a Yu River in the middle of the village, and most of the people there live on both sides of the Yu River. They are brave and powerful by nature. At first, they served as the vanguard of the Han army and rushed into the enemy's formation many times.
Their custom is to sing and dance. After watching it, Emperor Gaozu said: This is the song that King Wu of Zhou sung when he defeated Zhou.
So artists who were good at singing and dancing were asked to learn from it, and "Bayu Dance" was created.
Since then, they have surrendered for generations.
When Guangwu Zhongxing came, the county guards often led Banchu barbarians to fight.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the Banmei barbarians rebelled many times. The governor of Shu County, Twa Wen, used his kindness and faith to convince them to surrender.

summary:
The Bajunnanjunman originated from Wuluo Zhongli Mountain, with five surnames. Ba's son Wu Xiang became king by hitting a stone cave with a sword and floating a clay boat. He married a salt goddess but later shot her. After death, his soul became a white tiger. King Hui of Qin made Ba leaders marry Qin women. During Han, Lei Qian rebelled, and Liu Shang moved 7,000 Meishan barbarians to Jiangxia. In Yongyuan's thirteenth year, Xu Sheng rebelled over taxes and was defeated. Banmei barbarians originated when a Yi man shot a white tiger for King Zhao of Qin. Emperor Gaozu mobilized them to attack the Three Qins, creating the Bayu Dance. During Emperor Huan's reign, they rebelled multiple times. In Guanghe's second year, they rebelled again. Cheng Bao advised that oppressive officials caused the rebellion, and the emperor sent Cao Qian to pardon them.

================================================================================

Summary line 5
Span: 336-384 (score=0.4728)

original:
天祐助之，何其明也！
二十七年，贤栗等遂率种人户二千七百七十，口万七千六百五十九，诣越巂太守郑鸿降，求内属，光武封贤栗等为君长。
自是岁来朝贡。
永平十二年，哀牢王柳貌遣子率种人内属，其种邑王者七十七人，户五万一千八百九十，口五十五万三千七百一十一。
西南去洛阳七千里，显宗以其地置哀牢、博南二县，割益州郡西部都尉所领六县，合为永昌郡。
始通博南山，度兰仓水。行者苦之。
歌曰： 汉德广，开不宾。
度博南，越兰津。
度兰仓，为它人。
哀牢人皆穿鼻儋耳，其渠帅自谓王者，耳皆下肩三寸，庶人则至肩而已。
土地沃美，宜五谷、蚕桑。
知染采文绣，罽帛叠，兰干细布，织成文章如绫锦。
有梧桐木华，绩以为布，幅广五尺，洁白不受垢污。
先以覆亡人，然后服之。
其竹节相去一丈，名曰濮竹。
出铜、铁、铅、锡、金、银、光珠、虎魄、水精、琉璃、轲虫、蚌珠、孔雀、翡翠、犀、象、猩猩、貊兽。
云南县有神鹿两头，能食毒草。
先是，西部都尉广汉郑纯，为政清洁，化行夷貊，君长感慕，皆献土珍，颂德美。
天子嘉之。即以为永昌太守。
纯与哀牢夷人约，邑豪岁输布贯头衣二领，盐一斛，以为常赋，夷俗安之。
纯自为都尉、太守，十年卒官。
建初元年，哀牢王类牢与守令忿争，遂杀守令而反叛，攻巂唐城。
太守王寻奔榆。
哀牢三千余人攻博南，燔烧民舍。
肃宗募发越巂、益州、永昌夷汉九千人讨之。
明年春，邪龙县昆明夷卤承等应募，率种人与诸郡兵击类牢于博南，大破斩之。
传首洛阳，赐卤承帛万匹，封为破虏傍邑侯。
永元六年，郡徼外敦忍乙王莫延慕，遣使译献犀牛、大象。
九年，徼外蛮及掸国王雍由调遣重译奉国珍宝，和帝赐金印紫绶，小君长皆加印绶、钱帛。
永初元年，徼外焦侥种夷陆类等三千余口举种内附，献象牙、水牛、封牛。
永宁元年，掸国王雍由调复遣使者诣阙朝贺，献乐及幻人，能变化吐火，自支解，易牛马头。
又善跳丸，数乃至千。
自言我海西人。
海西即大秦也，掸国西南通大秦。
明年元会，安帝作乐于庭，封雍由调为汉大都尉，赐印绶、金银、彩缯各有差也。
邛都夷者，武帝所开，以为邛都县。
无几而地陷为污泽，因名为邛池，南人以为邛河。
后复反叛。
元鼎六年，汉兵自越巂水伐之，以为越巂郡。
其土地平原，有稻田。
青蛉县禺同山有碧鸡金马，光景时时出见。
俗多游荡而喜讴歌，略与牂柯相类。
豪帅放纵，难得制御。
王莽时，郡守枚根调邛人长贵，以为军候。
更始二年，长贵率种人攻杀枚根，自立为邛穀王。领太守事。
又降于公孙述。
述败，光武封长贵为邛穀王。
建武十四年，长贵遣使上三年计，天子即授越巂太守印绶。
十九年，武威将军刘尚击益州夷，路由越巂。

translation:
God bless and help the Central Plains, how come it is so obvious!
In the twenty-seventh year, Xianli and others led 2,770 households and 17,659 people to surrender to Zheng Hong, the prefect of Yuejun, demanding submission. Guangwu made Xianli and others their leaders.
Since then, Ailao has come to pay tribute every year.
In the twelfth year of Yong's reign, Ailao King Liu Maung sent his sons to lead the tribe to submit. They were called kings of the city, with 77 people, 51,890 households, and a population of 553,711.
Ailao is located in the southwest, seven thousand miles away from Luoyang. Emperor Xianzong established Ailao and Bonan counties there, and divided the six counties under the jurisdiction of the western captain of Yizhou County into Yongchang County.
At that time, Bonan Mountain had just been opened to cross the Lancang River, and the journey was difficult.
The ballad says: Han's kindness is broad and he can conquer places where there is no surrender.
Climb Bonan Mountain and cross Lancangjin.
After crossing the Lancang River, I became a stranger in a foreign land.
The people of Ailao all have pierced nostrils and droopy ears. Among the leaders, the ears of those who call themselves kings reach three inches below the shoulders, while the ears of the common people only reach the shoulders.
The land in Ailao is fertile and suitable for growing grains, mulberry and silkworms.
They know how to dye cloth into colors, embroider clothes and silk fabrics, know how to weave felt and weave cotton yarn, and how to weave orchids and fine soft fabrics. The patterns they weave are like thin and delicate silk fabrics.
There is a kind of silk from the local sycamore tree, which can be woven into cloth with a width of five feet. It is white and will not pollute.
First, the dead person is covered with it, and then made into clothes to wear.
The wrapped bamboo has knots one foot apart and is called Pu Bamboo.
That bundle produces copper, iron, lead, tin, gold, silver, pearls of light, amber, crystal, glass, sea shells, pearls, peacocks, emeralds, rhinos, elephants, orangutans, and wild beasts.
There are two sacred deer in Yunnan County, which can eat poisonous grass.
Before that, Zheng Chun, a native of Guanghan, the western captain, was an honest and upright official, and his teachings were carried out among the Yi people. The leaders of the Yi people were moved and admired Zheng Chun, and they all came to contribute local products and treasures and praise his virtues.
The emperor praised Zheng Chun and immediately appointed him as the governor of Yongchang.
Zheng Chun made an agreement with the Ailao Yi people that the tribal chief would give him two pieces of clothing and a handful of salt every year, which would be used as normal taxes, so that the Yi people would feel at ease.
Zheng Chun served as captain and governor for ten years and died in office.
In the first year of Jianchu, King Leilao of Ailao had an angry quarrel with the county magistrate, so he killed the magistrate and rebelled, attacking Juntang City.
The prefect Wang Xun fled to Meiyu.
More than 3,000 Ailao people attacked Bonan and burned down people's houses.
Suzong recruited and dispatched 9,000 Yi and Han people from Yuejun, Yizhou, and Yongchang to conquer Leilao.
In the spring of the next year, Kunming Yilicheng and others from Xielong County responded to the recruitment and led people from the same tribe to attack Lei Lao in Bonan with the troops guarding the county. They defeated and killed Lei Lao.
The head of Lei Lao was sent to Luoyang. The emperor rewarded Lu Cheng with 10,000 pieces of cloth and named him Marquis of Polu Pangyi.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, King Mo Yan of Dunren Yi outside the border of Yongchang County admired Deyi and sent an interpreter to present rhinos and elephants.
In the ninth year, Yongyou, the king of the barbarians and Shan outside the border, sent people to send domestic treasures through various translators. Emperor He gave them gold seals and purple ribbons, and the small chiefs also gave them seals, ribbons and money.
In the first year of Yongchu, more than 3,000 people from outside the border, including Yi Lulei and others, submitted their entire tribe and presented ivory, buffalo, and cows.
In the first year of Yongning, King Yongyou Diao of Shan sent envoys to the court to pay homage and celebrate, presenting music and performers of illusions. They could change their bodies, breathe fire from their mouths, dismember themselves, and swap the heads of cows and horses.
They are also good at throwing and catching several balls quickly with both hands, and can throw and catch thousands of times.
They call themselves Haixi people.
Haixi is Da Qin, and the southwest of Shan State leads to Da Qin.
On the New Year's Day of the next year, Emperor An met with his ministers and asked him to perform music in the palace. He appointed Yong Youtiao as the Han Dynasty Commander-in-Chief, and gave him seals and ribbons as well as various amounts of gold, silver and colored silk.
Qiongdu Yi was developed by Emperor Wu, who designated it as Qiongdu County.
After a while, the ground sank and turned into a slop, so it was called Qiongchi, and people in the south called it Qionghe River.
Later, the Qiongdu Yi rebelled again.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Han soldiers crossed the Jun River to conquer the Qiongdu Yi and made it Yue Mao County.
The land in Boguo is flat and there are rice fields.
On Yutong Mountain in Qingxie County, there are the Golden Horse Society and the Bade God, where light and shadow often appear.
The custom in Nahuo is that most people have fun and debauchery, but they also like to sing, which is roughly similar to the people of Pangke.
The Qiongdu Yi chieftains were very indulgent and it was difficult to control them.
During the reign of Wang Mang, the governor of the county, Mei Gen, recruited a noble from Qiondu and appointed him as a military marquis.
In the second year of Gengshi, Changgui led his tribe to attack and killed Meigen, and established himself as King of Qiong Valley, exercising the power of prefect.
Later he surrendered to Gongsun Shu.
After Gongsun Shu failed, Guangwu granted Changgui the title of King of Qiong Valley.
In the fourteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Changgui sent an envoy to present three years' accounting records to the court. Guangwu immediately awarded Changgui the seal and ribbon of the Yuelun Prefect.
In the 19th year, General Liu Shang of Wuwei attacked Yizhou Yi and passed through Yuelun.

summary:
The Yelang Kingdom originated from a woman finding a baby in bamboo. Emperor Wu established Yangke County. The King of Dian descended from Zhuang Qi. During Wang Mang's chaos, Dongcan rebelled. Wen Qi resisted Gongsun Shu and later submitted to Guangwu. In Jianwu's eighteenth year, Dongcan rebelled again, and Liu Shang pacified them. During Emperor Ling's Xiping period, Yi tribes rebelled, capturing the prefect. Li Yi and Pangzhi defeated them. The Ailaoyi originated from Sha Yi, who gave birth to ten sons after touching a submerged tree. In Jianwu's twenty-third year, King Xianli attacked Lu Dad but was defeated by storms. In the twenty-seventh year, Xianli surrendered. In Yong's twelfth year, King Liu Maung submitted with 553,711 people. Yongchang County was established. During Emperor Huan's reign, King Leilao rebelled and was killed. In Yongyuan's sixth year, King Mo Yan presented rhinos and elephants. In Yongning's first year, King Yongyou Diao presented musicians who performed illusions.

================================================================================

Summary line 6
Span: 369-418 (score=0.5664)

original:
海西即大秦也，掸国西南通大秦。
明年元会，安帝作乐于庭，封雍由调为汉大都尉，赐印绶、金银、彩缯各有差也。
邛都夷者，武帝所开，以为邛都县。
无几而地陷为污泽，因名为邛池，南人以为邛河。
后复反叛。
元鼎六年，汉兵自越巂水伐之，以为越巂郡。
其土地平原，有稻田。
青蛉县禺同山有碧鸡金马，光景时时出见。
俗多游荡而喜讴歌，略与牂柯相类。
豪帅放纵，难得制御。
王莽时，郡守枚根调邛人长贵，以为军候。
更始二年，长贵率种人攻杀枚根，自立为邛穀王。领太守事。
又降于公孙述。
述败，光武封长贵为邛穀王。
建武十四年，长贵遣使上三年计，天子即授越巂太守印绶。
十九年，武威将军刘尚击益州夷，路由越巂。
长贵闻之，疑尚既定南边，威法必行，己不得自放纵，即聚兵起营台，招呼诸君长，多酿毒酒，欲先以劳军，因袭击尚。
尚知其谋，即分兵先据邛都，遂掩长贵诛之，徙其家属于成都。
永平元年，姑复夷复叛，益州刺史发兵讨破之，斩其渠帅，传首京师。
后太守巴郡张翕，政化清平，得夷人和。
在郡十七年，卒，夷人爱慕，如丧父母。
苏祈叟二百余人，赍牛、羊送丧，至翕本县安汉，起坟祭祀。
诏书嘉美，为立祠堂。
安帝元初三年，郡徼外夷大羊等八种，户三万一千，口十六万七千六百二十，慕义内属。
时郡县赋敛烦数，五年，卷夷大牛种封离等反畔，杀遂久令。
明年，永昌、益州及蜀郡夷皆叛应之，众遂十余万，破坏二十余县，杀长吏，燔烧邑郭，剽略百姓，骸骨委积，千里无人。
诏益州刺史张乔选堪能从事讨之。
乔乃遣从事杨竦将兵至榆击之，贼盛未敢进，先以诏书告示三郡，密征求武士，重其购赏。
乃进军与封离等战，大破之，斩首三万余级，获生口千五百人，资财四千余万，悉以赏军士。
封离等惶怖，斩其同谋渠帅，诣竦乞降，竦厚加慰纳。
其余三十六种皆来降附。
竦因奏长吏奸猾、侵犯蛮夷者九十人，皆减死。
州中论功未及上，会竦病创卒，张乔深痛惜之，乃刻石勒铭，图画其像。
天子以张翕有遗爱，乃拜其子湍为太守。
夷人欢喜，奉迎道路。曰： 郎君仪貌类我府君。
后湍颇失其心，有欲叛者，诸夷耆老相晓语曰： 当为先府君故。
遂以得安。
后顺、桓间，广汉冯颢为太守，政化尤多异迹云。
都夷者，武帝所开，以为都县。
其人皆被发左衽，言语多好譬类，居处略与汶山夷同。
土出长年神药，仙人山图所居焉。
元鼎六年，以为沈黎郡。
至夭汉四年，并蜀为西部，置两都尉：一居旄牛，主徼外夷；一居青衣，主汉人。
永平中，益州刺史梁国朱辅，好立功名，慷慨有大略。
在州数岁，宣示汉德，威怀远夷。
自汶山以西，前世所不至，正朔所未加。
白狼、槃木、唐等百余国，户百三十余万，口六百万以上，举种奉贡，种为臣仆。
辅上疏曰： 臣闻《诗》云： 彼徂者岐，有夷之行。 传曰： 岐道虽僻，而人不远。
诗人诵咏，以为符验。
今白狼王唐等慕化归义，作诗三章。

translation:
Haixi is Da Qin, and the southwest of Shan State leads to Da Qin.
On the New Year's Day of the next year, Emperor An met with his ministers and asked him to perform music in the palace. He appointed Yong Youtiao as the Han Dynasty Commander-in-Chief, and gave him seals and ribbons as well as various amounts of gold, silver and colored silk.
Qiongdu Yi was developed by Emperor Wu, who designated it as Qiongdu County.
After a while, the ground sank and turned into a slop, so it was called Qiongchi, and people in the south called it Qionghe River.
Later, the Qiongdu Yi rebelled again.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Han soldiers crossed the Jun River to conquer the Qiongdu Yi and made it Yue Mao County.
The land in Boguo is flat and there are rice fields.
On Yutong Mountain in Qingxie County, there are the Golden Horse Society and the Bade God, where light and shadow often appear.
The custom in Nahuo is that most people have fun and debauchery, but they also like to sing, which is roughly similar to the people of Pangke.
The Qiongdu Yi chieftains were very indulgent and it was difficult to control them.
During the reign of Wang Mang, the governor of the county, Mei Gen, recruited a noble from Qiondu and appointed him as a military marquis.
In the second year of Gengshi, Changgui led his tribe to attack and killed Meigen, and established himself as King of Qiong Valley, exercising the power of prefect.
Later he surrendered to Gongsun Shu.
After Gongsun Shu failed, Guangwu granted Changgui the title of King of Qiong Valley.
In the fourteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Changgui sent an envoy to present three years' accounting records to the court. Guangwu immediately awarded Changgui the seal and ribbon of the Yuelun Prefect.
In the 19th year, General Liu Shang of Wuwei attacked Yizhou Yi and passed through Yuelun.
After Changgui learned about it, he suspected that once Liu Shang pacified the south, authoritarian laws would be implemented, and he could not indulge at will. So he gathered people to build a fortress, called the leaders of various ministries, and brewed a large amount of poisonous wine. He wanted to use the poisonous wine to comfort the army first, and then took the opportunity to attack Liu Shang.
Liu Shang knew Chang Gui's plan, and immediately dispatched troops to occupy Qiongdu, then suddenly attacked Chang Gui, killed him, and moved his family to Chengdu.
In the first year of Yongping, Gu Fuyi rebelled again. The governor of Yizhou sent troops to conquer, defeated Gu Fuyi, killed Ding and their leader, and sent their heads to the capital.
Later, Zhang Xi, a native of Bajun, was the prefect. His political affairs and education were clean and fair, and he made the barbarians harmonious.
Zhang Xi had been the governor for seventeen years. When he died, the Yi people loved and admired him as if they had lost their parents.
More than 200 elderly people from Suqi County brought cattle and sheep to mourn Zhang Xi's birthplace, Anhan County, to build a tomb to worship him.
The emperor issued an edict to praise Zhang Xi and built an ancestral hall for him.
In the third year of Emperor An's reign, eight tribes including Dayang and other Yi people outside the Yue Mao border, with a total of 31,000 households and 167,620 people, admired virtue and righteousness and submitted.
At that time, there were many taxes in counties and counties. In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Zhuanyi Danniu Zhong Fengli and others rebelled and killed Sui Jiuling.
The next year, the Yi people in Yongchang, Yizhou and Shu counties all rebelled and responded to the siege. Their tribesmen numbered more than 100,000. They destroyed more than 20 counties, killed county officials, burned cities and towns, plundered the people, piled up corpses, and left no trace of human beings within a thousand miles.
The emperor sent a letter to Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, to select competent people to conquer the barbarians.
Zhang Qiao then sent his servant Yang Song to lead troops to Keyu to attack the bandits. However, the bandits were strong and Yang Song did not dare to advance. He first informed the three counties of Shao and secretly recruited warriors with heavy rewards.
Then he advanced to fight with Feng Li and others, and defeated Feng Li. He killed more than 30,000 people, captured 1,500 people alive, and gained more than 40 million in money, all of which was used to reward the soldiers.
Feng Li and others were frightened, killed the leader of the conspirators, and went to Yang Song to beg for surrender. Yang Song gave them special comfort and acceptance.
The other thirty-six tribes came to surrender.
Therefore, Yang Song reported that ninety people among the officials who were cunning and had invaded the barbarians were reduced to death.
Before the merit evaluation in the state could be reported to the court, Yang Song happened to be injured and died. Zhang Qiao was very sad and regretful, so he carved a stone to record his merit and painted a portrait of Yang Song.
Because Zhang Xi had left a benevolent impression among the barbarians, the emperor appointed his son Zhang Tuan as the prefect.
The Yi people were very happy and greeted him on the road, saying: "You look very much like our governor."
Later, Zhang Tuan lost the support of the people, and some Yi people wanted to rebel. An old man among the Yi people told them: Just for the sake of the former governor.
This is how you find peace.
Later, during the reigns of Emperor Shun and Emperor Huan, Feng Hao from Guanghan served as the prefect, with particularly outstanding achievements in political performance and education.
The capital of Yi was developed by Emperor Wu, who made it Feidu County.
The people in that package all have their hair down, their clothes open to the left, they like to use metaphors when talking, and their living environment is roughly the same as that of Wenshan Yi.
There grows a magic medicine that can prolong life, and it is where the Immortal Mountain Tu lives.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Shenli County was established in Boguo.
In the fourth year of Tianmo, it was merged into Shu County as the western part. There were two captains. One lived in Yanniu and had jurisdiction over the Yi people outside the border. The other lived in Qingyi and had jurisdiction over the Han people.
During the Yongping period, Zhu Fu, a native of Liang State in Yibishi, liked to build a reputation. He was generous and very strategic.
During his several years in Yizhou, he proclaimed the benevolence of the Han Dynasty, and his prestige influenced the Yi people in distant places.
From Wenshan to the west, no one in previous generations has been there, and the Central Plains calendar has never been implemented there.
There are more than 100 countries such as Bailang, Panmu and Tanghu, with more than 1.3 million households and a population of more than 6 million. They pay tribute to the imperial court as a whole and call themselves ministers.
Zhu Fu's memorial said: I heard that the "Poetry" said: Those people defected to Zhou Qi because Zhou Qi had clear politics. It is said that although the road to Zhou Qi is remote, people do not think it is far.
The poet's chant can be used as verification.
Now White Wolf King, Tang Mao and others admire the enlightenment, surrender to Deyi, and write three poems.

summary:
The Qiongdu Yi were developed by Emperor Wu. During Wang Mang's reign, Changgui killed the prefect and later submitted to Gongsun Shu. Guangwu made him king, but Liu Shang killed him in Jianwu's nineteenth year. During Emperor An's reign, eight Yi tribes submitted. In Yuan's fifth year, Feng Li rebelled, and Zhang Qiao sent Yang Song to defeat him. The Yi capital was developed by Emperor Wu. During Yongping, Zhu Fu pacified over 100 countries including Bailang, with over 6 million people submitting. They presented three poems. During Emperor Ling's reign, the vassal state of Shu was changed to Hanjia. Ran Chiyi was developed by Emperor Wu as Wenshan County. The climate was cold, and Yi people worked in Shu during winter. They built stone houses called "Qiong Cong." The land produced wheat, livestock, and medicinal materials. Zhiwuya was developed in Yuangu's sixth year as Wudu County. The Di people were brave and greedy. During Yuanfeng's third year, they rebelled and were moved to Jiuquan. During Jianwu, the Di people surrendered to Han after Gongsun Shu's defeat.

================================================================================

Summary line 7
Span: 483-505 (score=0.6800)

original:
建武初，氐人悉附陇蜀，及隗嚣灭，其豪乃背公孙述降汉，陇西太守马援上复其王侯君长，赐以印绶。
后嚣族人隗茂反，杀武都太守。
氐人大豪齐钟留为种类所敬信，威服诸豪，与郡丞孔奋击茂，破斩之。
后亦时为寇盗，郡县讨破之。
论曰：汉氏征伐戎狄，有事边远，盖亦与王业而终始矣。
至于倾没疆垂，丧师败将者，不出时岁，卒能开四夷之境，款殊俗之附。
若乃文约之所沾渐，风声之所周流，几将日所出入处也。
著自山经、水志者，亦略及焉。
虽服叛难常，威泽时旷，及其化行，则缓耳雕脚之伦，兽居鸟语之类，莫不举种尽落，回面而请吏，陵海越障，累译以内属焉。
故其录名中郎、校尉之署，编数都护、部守之曹，动以数百万计。
若乃藏山隐海之灵物，沉沙栖陆之玮宝，莫不呈表怪丽，雕被宫幄焉。
又其賨幏火毳、驯禽封兽之赋，軨积于内府；夷歌巴舞、殊音异节之技，列倡于外门。
岂柔服之道，必足于斯？
然亦云致远者矣。
蛮夷虽附阻岩谷，而类有土居，连涉荆、交之区，布护巴、庸之外，不可量极。
然其凶勇狡算，薄于羌狄，故陵暴之害，不能深也。
西南之徼，尤为劣焉。
故关守永昌，肇自远离，启土立人，至今成都焉。
赞曰：百蛮蠢居，仞彼方徼。
镂体卉衣，凭深阻峭。
亦有别夷，屯彼蜀表。
参差聚落，纡余岐道。
往化既孚，改襟输宝。俾建永昌，同编亿兆。

translation:
In the early years of Jianwu, all the Di people returned to Long and Shu. After Wei Xiao was destroyed, the leader of the Di people betrayed Gongsun Shu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Ma Yuan, the governor of Longxi, wrote a letter to restore the princes and leaders of the Di people, and the court gave them seals and ribbons.
Later, Kai Mao, a kinsman of Kai Xiao's, rebelled and killed the governor of Wudu.
Qi Zhongliu, the great leader of the Di people, was respected and trusted by the people in the tribe. His prestige convinced many leaders. He and the county prime minister Kong Fen attacked Wei Mao, defeated and killed him.
Later, the Di people also invaded from time to time and were conquered and defeated by the counties.
The argument goes: Liu Mo's expedition against Rong and Di and his use of troops in remote areas generally began and ended with the emperor's achievements.
Sometimes the border was lost, the army was destroyed, and the generals were defeated. But within a year, they were finally able to open up the lands of the barbarians from all directions and make the races with different customs submit.
As for the places moistened by documents and covenants, and affected by weathering and prestige, it almost extends to all areas where the sun rises and sets.
Classics, starting from Shan Jing and Shui Zhi, also briefly mention this aspect.
Although the Yi people from all over the world surrendered and rebelled erratically, and the prestige and favor of the imperial court were often interrupted, as long as the education was implemented, whether it was a tribe with lop-eared eagle feet or a tribe that lived like wild beasts and spoke like a raven, they all submitted to the Central Plains as an entire tribe.
Therefore, their names are recorded in the official offices of Zhonglang General and Xiaowei, and their numbers are included in the official lists of meritorious officials under the Duhufu, Buduwei, and Prefectures. The population is often calculated in millions.
As for the divine objects hidden deep in the mountains, hidden under the sea, and the treasures buried in sand and stone and inhabiting the land, they all showed strange and gorgeous features and were decorated in the palace curtains.
Tributes such as warnings, fire orders, domesticated birds and tall beasts were gathered in the imperial treasury; arts with completely different sound and rhythm, such as Yi people's songs and Bayu dances, were displayed outside the palace gate.
Is the way of submission complete at this point?
However, it can also be said that it has attracted the submission of races from far away.
Although the barbarians lived on the mountains, rocks and valleys, most of them lived in certain areas, connected to Jingzhou and Jiaozhou areas, and were distributed and guarded outside Bajun and Yong. It is impossible to calculate their number.
However, the barbarians were ferocious and cunning and slightly weaker than the Qiang and Di, so the harm caused by their plundering and cruelty could not go far.
The barbarians outside the southwest border are especially weak.
Therefore, setting up a garrison in Yongchang was initially to guard against the barbarians from far away. Later, it opened up the land and made the people self-reliant. Now it has become a city.
Zan said: The area inhabited by various barbarians is very small, but it is spread all over the four borders.
Sculpted bodies, wearing straw clothes, relying on the deep and rugged mountain life.
There are also some Yi people living in the border areas of Shu County.
The scattered tribal villages have turned to Zhou Qi's path of morality and justice.
Once they gained trust by going to teach, the barbarians changed their clothes and brought treasures, which led the imperial court to establish Yongchang County and include the barbarians in household registers along with hundreds of millions of people in the mainland.

summary:
The argument states that expeditions against barbarians generally succeeded within a year, opening lands of diverse races. Education reached all areas where the sun rises and sets. Although barbarians surrendered and rebelled inconsistently, those with various customs submitted to the Central Plains. Their names were recorded in official offices, and their population numbered in the millions. Precious objects from mountains and seas decorated palace curtains. Tributes of rare birds and beasts filled the imperial treasury. Barbarian songs and dances were performed outside the palace gate. The barbarians lived in mountainous areas connected to Jingzhou and Jiaozhou, distributed outside Bajun and Yong. Their ferocity was slightly weaker than Qiang and Di, so their plundering could not go far. Southwestern barbarians were especially weak. Yongchang garrison was established to guard against distant barbarians, later opening land and becoming a city. The eulogy notes that various barbarians spread across four borders, living in deep mountains, with some in Shu County border areas. Once they gained trust through teaching, they changed customs and brought treasures, leading to Yongchang County's establishment and their inclusion in household registers.

================================================================================

