Chunk 0: 
original: 
初，光武长于民间，颇达情伪，见稼穑艰难，百姓病害，至天下已定，务用安静，解王莽之繁密，还汉世之轻法。
身衣大练，色无重采，耳不听郑、卫之音，手不持珠玉之玩，宫房无私爱，左右无偏恩。
建武十三年，异国有献名马者，日行千里，又进宝剑，贾兼百金，诏以马驾鼓车，剑赐骑士。
损上林池籞之官，废骋望弋猎之事。
其以手迹赐方国者，皆一札十行，细书成文。
勤约之风，行于上下。
数引公卿郎将，列于禁坐。
广求民瘼，观纳风谣。
故能内外匪懈，百姓宽息。
自临宰邦邑者，竞能其官。
若杜诗守南阳，号为 杜母 ，任延、锡光移变边俗，斯其绩用之最章章者也。
又第五伦、宋均之徒，亦足有可称谈。
translation: 
In the beginning, Guangwu was born among the people. He knew the truth of the world very well and witnessed the hardships of farming and the diseases of the people. Therefore, after the world was settled, he strived for peace, eliminated the complicated methods of Wang Mang's period, and restored the lenient methods of the Han Dynasty.
He wears rough clothes without a second color. Guang Wu's ears do not listen to the sound of Mi Mi, his hands do not play with pearls and jade, there is no preference in the harem, and the ministers near him are not treated differently.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, foreign countries presented famous horses that could run thousands of miles in a day, and also presented swords, which were worth hundreds of kilograms of gold. The edict ordered the chariots to be driven by horses and drums, and swords were given to the knights.
They also reduced the number of officials in Shangzheng Garden and abolished things like traveling and hunting.
The handwritten letters given by the emperor to localities and vassal states are all in ten lines and written in small characters.
The atmosphere of diligence and frugality prevailed in the imperial court.
The emperor repeatedly asked ministers and generals to sit on the throne.
He visited extensively to inquire about the sufferings of the people and collected folk songs.
Therefore, no one inside or outside the court dared to slack off, and the people got a rest.
The local governors competed for their efforts.
For example, Du Shi served as the governor of Nanyang and was called "Du Mu". Ren Yan and Xiguang changed the customs in the border areas. These are the people with the most remarkable political achievements.
There are also Wu Lun, Song Jun and others, who also have many things worthy of praise.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
然建武、永平之间，吏事刻深，亟以谣言单辞，转易守长。
故朱浮数上谏书，箴切峻政，钟离意等亦规讽殷勤，以长者为言，而不能得也。
所以中兴之美，盖未尽焉。
自章、和以后，其有善绩者，往往不绝。
如鲁恭、吴祐、刘宽及颍川四长，并以仁信笃诚，使人不欺；王堂、陈宠委任贤良，而职事自理：斯皆可以感物而行化也。
边凤、延笃先后为京兆尹，时人以辈前世赵、张。
又王涣、任峻之为洛阳令，明发奸伏，吏端禁止，然导德齐礼，有所未充，亦一时之良能也。
今缀集殊闻显迹，以为《循吏篇》云。
卫飒字子产，河内脩武人也。
家贫好学问，随师无粮，常佣以自给。
王莽时，仕郡历州宰。
建武二年，辟大司徒邓禹府。
举能案剧，除侍御史，襄城令。
政有名迹，迁桂阳太守。
郡与交州接境，颇染其俗，不知礼则。
飒下车，修庠序之教，设婚姻之礼。
translation: 
However, during the Jianwu and Yongping years, political affairs were too strict and detailed, and local governors were replaced many times based on rumors and one-sided remarks.
Therefore, Zhu Fu wrote many times and put forward sharp opinions. Zhong Zhengtong and others also repeatedly gave advice. They spoke as loyal and generous elders, but they were not adopted.
Therefore, Mosaic during the ZTE period still had shortcomings.
Since Emperor Zhang and Emperor He, some officials with outstanding political achievements have continued to appear.
For example, Lu Gong, Wu You, Liu Kuan and the four county magistrates of Tichuan all used their benevolence, faith, loyalty and honesty to prevent people from cheating; Wang Tang and Chen Chong appointed virtuous and talented people, and political affairs were naturally managed: these can move all things and promote education.
Bian Feng and Yan Du successively served as Jing Zhaoyin, and people compared them to Zhao Guangmo and Zhang Chang.
In addition, Wang Huan and Ren Jun served as the Luoyang Order, publicly punishing bad people and bad things, and the officialdom improved, and what was forbidden was naturally prohibited. Although there were some imperfections in terms of morality and etiquette, they were still good officials at that time.
Now the good officials with outstanding achievements are brought together as "Xunli Chapter".
◆The biography of Wei Sa, Wei Sa, courtesy name Zichan, was a martial arts practitioner in Hanoi.
Wei Sa came from a poor family but loved learning. He studied with a teacher but had no food, so he often relied on work to survive.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he served as the governor of Yuzhou.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he went to serve in the mansion of Grand Situ Deng Yu.
He was appointed as an imperial censor and a magistrate of Xiangcheng for recommending talented people to handle heavy official duties.
He had a good reputation and achievements in politics, and was promoted to the prefect of Guiyang.
Guiyang borders Jiaozhou and is greatly influenced by Jiaozhou. The people do not know etiquette.
After Wei Sa took office, he built schools, rectified education, and formulated marriage etiquette.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
期年间，邦俗从化。
先是，含洭、浈阳，曲江三县，越之故地，武帝平之，内属桂阳。
民居深山，滨溪谷，习其风土，不出田租。
去郡远者，或且千里。
吏事往来，辄发民乘船，名曰 传役 。
每一吏出，徭及数家，百姓苦之。
飒乃凿山通道五百余里，列亭传，置邮驿。
于是役省劳息，奸吏杜绝。
流民稍还，渐成聚邑，使输租赋，同之平民。
又耒阳县出铁石，佗郡民庶常依因聚会，私为冶铸，遂招来亡命，多致奸盗。
飒乃上起铁官，罢斥私铸，岁所增入五百余万。
飒理恤民事，居官如家，其所施政，莫不合于物宜。
视事十年，郡内清理。
二十五年，征还。
光武欲以为少府，会飒被疾，不能拜起，敕以桂阳太守归家，须后诏书。
translation: 
In one year, the atmosphere has changed drastically.
Originally, the three counties of Hancheng, Yanyang and Qujiang belonged to the Yue region. After Emperor Wu pacified the Yue region, they were restored to Guiyang.
The people live in the mountains, relying on streams, following the customs and habits of the past, and do not pay land rent.
Some places far away from the county are nearly a thousand miles away.
When officials come and go to do business, they always dispatch people to drive boats to pick them up, which is called "passenger service".
Every time an official goes out, corvee service is assigned to several houses, and the people suffer.
Wei Sa then dug more than 500 miles of mountain roads, built inns, and set up a post office.
This reduces labor and eliminates the cunning of officials.
The expatriate people slowly came back and gradually gathered into villages and towns, and then they were required to pay taxes like common people.
In addition, Leiyang County produces iron ore, and people from other counties often gather together to smelt iron privately. As a result, they attract desperadoes and lead to many robberies.
Wei Sa then wrote to ask for the establishment of officials responsible for iron casting, and did not allow private iron casting. This would increase the annual income by more than 5 million yuan.
Wei Sa is good at handling civil affairs and is considerate of people's sentiments. Being an official is like managing his own family, and all the policies he implements are reasonable.
He served for ten years and the county was in peace.
In the twenty-fifth year, Wei Sa was requisitioned by the imperial court.
Guangwu wanted to appoint him as the Shaofu, but just as he was ill and unable to take charge, Guangwu ordered him to go home to recuperate as the governor of Guiyang and wait for the Shao Shu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
居二岁，载病诣阙，自陈困笃，乃收印绶，赐钱十万，后卒于家。
南阳茨充代飒为桂阳。
亦善其政，教民种殖桑柘麻之属，劝令养蚕织履，民得利益焉。
任延字长孙，南阳宛人也。
年十二，为诸生，学于长安，明《诗》、《易》、《春秋》，显名太学，学中号为 任圣童 。
值仓卒，避兵之陇西。
时隗嚣已据四郡，遣使请延，延不应。
更始元年，以延为大司马属，拜会稽都尉。
时年十九，迎官惊其壮。
及到，静泊无为，唯先遣馈礼祠延陵季子。
时，天下新定，道路未通，避乱江南者皆未还中土，会稽颇称多士。
延到，皆聘请高行如董子仪、严子陵等，敬待以师友之礼。
掾吏贫者，辄分奉禄以赈给之。
translation: 
Two years later, Wei Sa came to the court sick and said that he was seriously ill. The emperor then took back his seal and ribbon and gave him one hundred thousand yuan. He later died at home.
Zhilijie directly served as the governor of Zhuwu for Lao, and he was also good at governance.
He taught the people to plant mulberry, hemp, and other things, and encouraged them to raise silkworms and weave shoes, and the people benefited a lot.
◆Ren Yanchuan, Ren Yan, courtesy name Changsun, was from Wan County, Nanyang.
At the age of twelve, he became a student of Taixue and studied in Chang'an. He was proficient in "Shi Zhi", "Book of Changes" and "Spring and Autumn". He was famous in Taixue and was called "Ren Shengtong" in the academy.
Catching up with the war and chaos, he took refuge in Longxi.
At that time, Kaixiao had occupied the four counties of Longxi and sent people to invite Ren Yan, but Ren Yan ignored him.
In the first year of Gengshi, Ren Yan was appointed as a subordinate of Da Sima and awarded the post of Captain of Kuaiji.
He was nineteen years old at the time, and the officials who came to pick him up were surprised to see him young.
After he arrived at the county, he was indifferent and did nothing. He just sent people to bring sacrifices to sacrifice Yanling Jizha.
At that time, the world had just been peaceful and the roads were blocked. Those who came to the south of the Yangtze River for refuge did not return to the Central Plains, so there were many talented people in Kuaiji.
After Ren Yan took office, he hired all persons of high moral character, such as Dong Ziyi and Yan Ziling, and treated them with the courtesy of mentors and friends.
When his subordinates were in need, he would always use his salary to help them.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
省诸卒，令耕公田，以周穷急。
每时行县，辄使慰勉孝子，就餐饭之。
吴有龙丘苌者，隐居太末，志不降辱。
王莽时，四辅三公连辟，不到。
掾史白请召之。
延曰： 龙丘先生躬德履义，有原宪、伯夷之节。
都尉埽洒其门，犹惧辱焉，召之不可。
遣功曹奉谒，修书记，致医药，吏使相望于道。
积一岁，苌乃乘辇诣府门，愿得先死备录。
延辞让再三，遂署议曹祭酒。
苌寻病卒，延自临殡，不朝三日。
是以郡中贤士大夫争往宦焉。
建武初，延上书愿乞骸骨，归拜王庭。
诏征为九真太守。
光武引见，赐马杂缯，令妻子留洛阳。
九真俗以谢猎为业，不知牛耕，民常告籴交阯，每致困乏。
延乃令铸作田器，教之垦辟。
translation: 
He laid off his soldiers and asked them to cultivate the public fields in order to feed the poor.
Every time he visited various counties, he always sent people to visit his filial sons and entertain them for meals.
There was a man named Long Qiuchang in the Wu region who lived in seclusion in Taimo and remained determined.
During Wang Mang's period, the Fourth Assistant and the Third Duke called him to serve as officials one after another, but he refused to go.
The governor reported to Ren Yan and asked him to be summoned.
Ren Yan said: Mr. Longqiu practices morality and justice, and has the integrity of Yuan Xian and Boyi.
I came to the house to sprinkle water and sweep the floor, and I was worried about humiliating him, so summoning him was absolutely not allowed.
So he sent a meritorious officer to visit him with gifts, wrote him letters, and sent him medicine. The messengers came one after another.
A year later, Long Qiuchang came to the county government by car and expressed his willingness to serve in the county before his death.
Ren Yan repeatedly declined, and finally asked him to serve as a temporary minister to discuss Cao's offer of wine.
Long Qiuchang died of illness soon, and Ren Yan personally attended to his funeral and did not deal with government affairs for three days.
Therefore, talented scholar-bureaucrats in the county competed to serve under him.
In the early years of Jianwu's reign, Ren Yan resigned and went back to see the emperor.
The imperial edict summoned Ren Yan and appointed him as the governor of Jiuzhen.
Guangwu summoned him, gave him horses and various silk products, and asked his wife and children to stay in Luoyang.
Jiuzhen's occupation is hunting and he doesn't know how to cultivate land and grow food. The people often go to Jiaozhi to buy food, which often leads to poverty.
So Ren Yan asked them to make farm tools and taught them to cultivate wasteland.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
田畴岁岁开广，百姓充给。
又骆越之民无嫁娶礼法，各因淫好，无適对匹，不识父子之性，夫妇之道。
延乃移书属县，各使男年二十至五十，女年十五至四十，皆以年齿相配。
其贫无礼娉，令长吏以下各省奉禄以赈助之。
同时相娶者二千余人。
是岁风雨顺节，谷稼丰衍。
其产子者，始知种姓。
咸曰： 使我有是子者，任君也。
多名子为 任 。
于是徼外蛮夷夜郎等慕义保塞，延遂止罢侦候戍卒。
初，平帝时，汉中锡光为交阯太守，教导民夷，渐以礼义，化声侔于延。
王莽末，闭境拒守。
建武初，遣使贡献，封盐水侯。
领南华风，始于二守焉。
translation: 
In this way, the cultivated land increases year by year, and the people are self-sufficient and wealthy.
Moreover, the people of Luo Yue had no marriage etiquette. They each followed their own sexual preferences. They had no fixed wives, and they did not understand the nature of father and son and the principles between husband and wife.
Ren Yan then sent documents to all counties, requiring men to be between twenty and fifty years old, and women to be between fifteen and forty, to be married according to age.
For those who were poor and could not afford the betrothal gift, officials below the senior level were required to use part of their salary to help them.
As a result, more than 2,000 people were married at the same time.
In the next year, the weather will be smooth and the food will be abundant.
These people only know their family name after giving birth to children.
They all said: Renjun is the one who made me have children!
Many people name their children Ren.
So the barbarian Yelang and other tribes outside the border admired Deyi and were willing to guard the border. Therefore, Ren Yan removed the scouts and soldiers guarding the border.
At first, during the reign of Emperor Ping, Xiguang, a Hanzhong native, served as the prefect of Jiaozhi. He guided the barbarians and gradually influenced them with etiquette and justice.
His reputation for civilizing barbarians is similar to that of Ren Yan. In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, Xiguang blocked the border and sent troops to defend it.
In the early years of Jianwu, he sent envoys to pay tribute and was named Marquis of Yanyan.
There is a Chinese custom in Lingnan, which started from these two prefects.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
延视事四年，征诣洛阳，以病稽留，左转睢阳令，九真吏人生为立祠。
拜武威太守，帝亲见，戒之曰： 善事上官，无失名誉。
延对曰： 臣闻忠臣不私，私臣不忠。
履正奉公，臣子之节。
上下雷同，非陛下之福。
善事上官，臣不敢奉诏。
帝叹息曰： 卿言是也。
既之武威，时将兵长史田绀，郡之大姓，其子弟宾客为人暴害。延收绀系之，父子宾客伏法者五六人。
绀少子尚乃聚会轻薄数百人，自号将军，夜来攻郡。
延即发兵破之。
自是威行境内，吏民累息。
郡北当匈奴，南接种羌，民畏寇抄，多废田业。
延到，选集武略之士千人，明其赏罚，令将杂种胡骑休屠黄石屯据要害，其有警急，逆击追讨。
又造立校官，自掾史子孙，皆令诣学受业，复其徭役。
translation: 
Ren Yan served in Jiuzhen for four years. The emperor summoned him to Luoyang. Due to illness, his trip was delayed and he was demoted to the order of Suiyang. Jiuzhen officials and people built ancestral halls for him when he was alive.
After arriving in Beijing, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuwei. The emperor personally summoned him and warned him: Serve your superiors well and don't ruin your reputation.
Ren Yan replied: I have heard that loyal ministers are selfless, and those who are selfish are disloyal.
Serving the country wholeheartedly is the duty of a minister.
It is not His Majesty's blessing that the top and bottom are the same.
Serve your superior officials well, I dare not accept your instructions.
The emperor sighed and said: You are right.
After arriving in Wuwei, Tian Cang, the commander of the army at that time, was a prominent family in the county. His nephews and guests harmed the people. Ren Yan arrested Tian Cang, and five or six of his father, son and guests were executed.
Tian Xiang's youngest son, Tian Shang, gathered hundreds of dissolute and frivolous people, called themselves generals, and attacked the county government at night.
Ren Yan immediately sent troops to defeat Tian Shang.
Since then, his prestige has been greatly shaken, and officials and people are cautious.
Wuwei faces the Huns to the north and the Qiang to the south. The people are afraid of the invasion and plunder of the Huns and Qiang, and many people have abandoned farming.
After Ren Yan arrived, he selected a thousand people who knew how to use soldiers, and stated rewards and punishments, asking them to lead the Hu people of various races to massacre Huangshi's cavalry to occupy key places, so that in case of emergency, they could fight and pursue the enemy.
The enemy will suffer many casualties in every battle. From now on, we will not dare to fight again. In the past, Hexi was short of rain, so Ren Yan appointed officials in charge of water conservancy to build ditches and channels, which benefited the people.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
章句既通。悉显拔荣进之。
郡遂有儒雅之士。
后坐擅诛羌不先上，左转召陵令。
显宗即位，拜颍川太守。
永平二年，征会辟雍，因以为河内太守。
视事九年，病卒。
少子恺，官至太常。
王景字仲通，乐浪讲邯人也。
八世祖仲，本琅邪不其人。
好道术，明天文。
诸吕作乱，齐哀王襄谋发兵，而数问于仲。
及济北王兴居反，欲委兵师仲，仲惧祸及，乃浮海东奔乐浪山中，因而家焉。
父闳，为郡三老。
更始败，土人王调杀郡守刘宪，自称大将军、乐浪太守。
建武六年，光武遣太守王遵将兵击之。
至辽东，闳与郡决曹史杨邑等共杀调迎遵，皆封为列侯，闳独让爵。
帝奇而征之，道病座。
景少学《易》，遂广窥众书，又好天文术数之事，沈深多伎艺。
辟司空伏恭府。
时有荐景能理水者，显宗诏与将作谒者王吴共修作浚仪渠。
translation: 
He also built schools and sent officials to manage them. Since then, the descendants of officials below have been allowed to go to the schools to receive education and exempt them from corvee labor.
Those who are familiar with the meaning of the scriptures are all appointed to make them proud.
Since then, Wuwei has learned and talented people. Later, Ren Yan was demoted to Zhaoling Order for killing Qiang people without authorization.
Xianzong ascended the throne and was granted the title of prefect of Yingchuan.
In the second year of Yongping, the emperor summoned him to school and then appointed him as the governor of Hanoi.
He served for nine years and died of illness.
His youngest son Ren Kai was very successful in his official career.
◆Wang Jingzhuan, Wang Jing, courtesy name Zhongtong, was born in Lelang, Jiahan.
His eighth generation ancestor, Wang Zhong, was originally from Langxie.
Wang Zhong likes Taoism and understands celestial phenomena.
When Zhu Lu was in rebellion, King Ai of Qi Liu Xiang planned to send troops and asked Wang Zhong for advice many times.
When Liu Xingju, the king of Jibei, rebelled, he wanted him to serve as military advisor. Wang Zhong was afraid of disaster, so he took a boat across the sea and fled to Lelang Mountain, where he settled down.
Wang Jing's father, Wang Hong, served as the third elder of the county.
After the reform failed, local Wang Tiao killed the county governor Liu Xian and called himself the general and the governor of Lelang.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent the prefect Wang Zun to lead an army to attack Wang Tiao.
When Wang Zun arrived in Liaodong, Wang Hong, together with the governor Cao Shi Yangyi and others, killed Wang Tiao and welcomed Wang Zun. The emperor made them all princes, but Wang Hong refused to give up his official title.
The emperor was surprised and summoned him to Beijing. Unexpectedly, he died of illness on the way.
Wang Jing studied "The Book of Changes" since he was a child, and then read various books extensively. He also liked things such as astronomy and mathematics, so he had a deep personality and was good at many skills.
Sikong Fugong called him to serve in the government.
At that time, someone recommended Wang Jing to be able to control floods, and Xianzong issued a letter from Shao asking him to build the Dredging Yi Canal together with Wang Wu, who was going to be the emissary.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
吴用景墕流法，水乃不复为害。
初，平帝时，河、汴决坏，未及得修。
建武十年，阳武令张汜上言： 河决积久，日月侵毁，济渠所漂数十许县。
修理之费，其功不难。
宜改修堤防，以安百姓。
书奏，光武即为发卒。
方营河功，而逡仪令乐俊复上言： 昔元光之间，人庶炽盛，缘堤垦殖，而瓠子河决，尚二十余年，不即拥塞。
今居家稀少，田地饶广，虽未修理，其患犹可。
且新被兵革，方兴役力，劳怨既多，民不堪命。
宜须平静，更议其事。
光武得此遂止。
后汴渠东侵，日月弥广，而水门故处，皆在河中，兗、豫百姓怨叹，以为县官恒兴佗役，不先民急。
永平十二年，议修汴渠，乃引见景，问以理水形便。
translation: 
Wang Wu adopted the low dam method proposed by Wang Jing to block water, so there was no more water damage.
At first, during the reign of Emperor Ping, the Yellow River and Bianshui River burst and destroyed the river banks, leaving no time to control them.
In the tenth year of Jianwu's reign, Yangwu ordered Zhang Si to write a letter saying: The Yellow River has been blocked for a long time, causing harm every day, and the Jiqu canal flooded dozens of counties.
Spend some money to control water and achieve success is not difficult.
It is best to rebuild the river embankments to bring peace to the people.
After the memorial was sent up, Guangwu immediately sent out soldiers.
While planning to regulate the Yellow River, Junyi ordered Lejun to write again: In the past, during the reign of Emperor Wu, there was a large population, and they all cultivated and planted along the river embankment. However, the Huzi River breached for more than 20 years, so it would not be blocked immediately.
Nowadays, the population is sparse and the fields are vast. Although there is no management, the disasters can still be tolerated.
Moreover, after the war, labor was now introduced. Once there was too much toil and resentment, the people could not bear it.
It's best to wait until things are stable before discussing the matter.
When Guangwu saw this opinion, he canceled the water control project.
Later, the flow of the Bian Canal became larger and larger, and the original location of the sluice reached the middle of the Yellow River. People in Yanzhou and Yuzhou complained that the imperial court often mobilized other laborers without considering the most urgent matters of the people first.
In the twelfth year of Yongping, the emperor discussed the management of Bianqu and summoned Wang Jing to inquire about the geographical situation and convenient conditions for water control.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
景陈其利害，应对敏给，帝善之。
又以尝修浚仪，功业有成，乃赐景《山海经》、《河渠书》、《禹贡图》及钱帛衣物。
夏，遂发卒数十万，遣景与王吴修渠筑堤，自荥阳东至千乘海口千余里。
景乃商度地势，凿山阜，破砥绩，直截沟涧，防遏冲要，疏决壅积，十里立一水门，令更相洄注，无复溃漏之患。
景虽简省役费，然犹以百亿计。
明年夏，渠成。
帝亲自巡行，诏滨河郡国置河堤员吏，如西京旧制。
景由是知名。
王吴及诸从事掾史皆增秩一等。
景三迁为侍御史。
十五年，从驾车巡狩，至无盐，帝美其功绩，拜河堤谒者，赐车马缣钱。
建初七年，迁徐州刺史。
先是杜陵杜笃奏上《论都赋》，欲令车驾迁还长安。
translation: 
Wang Jing stated the pros and cons of water control, and he was very quick and agile. The emperor appreciated it very much.
And because he had managed Junyi, he was given the "Book of Mountains and Seas", "Book of Rivers and Canals", "Pictures of Tribute to Yu" as well as coins, cloth, clothing and items.
In the summer, the imperial court finally mobilized hundreds of thousands of troops and sent Wang Jing and Wang Wu to build channels and embankments. It was more than a thousand miles from Rongyang to Qiancheng Haikou.
Wang Jing then measured the terrain, opened up the mountains, cleared the sand and gravel from the water, directly cut off the deep ditches, built dams at key points, and dredged and guided the blocked water flow. He built a sluice every ten miles so that the water could flow back and forth without causing the danger of bursting.
Although Wang Jing saved project costs, the cost was still calculated in tens of billions.
The next summer, the canal was built.
The emperor personally inspected and issued an edict to rely on the Yellow River counties to establish officials responsible for the river embankments, just like the system of the Western Han Dynasty.
Wang Jing became famous from this.
Wang Wu and those engaged in tax affairs all had their first-level official salaries increased.
Wang Jingjing was promoted three times and served as Shi Yushi.
In the fifteenth year, he followed the emperor to inspect Shubu. When he arrived in Wuyan, the emperor praised his achievements, awarded him the position of embankment visitor, and gave him carriages, horses, fine silk and coins.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wang Jing was transferred to the post of governor of Xuzhou.
Prior to this, Du Du, a native of Duling, presented "On the Capital Fu" to the emperor, hoping to move the capital to Chang'an.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
耆老闻者，皆动怀土之心，莫不眷然伫立西望。
景以宫庙已立，恐人情疑惑，会时有神雀诸瑞，乃作《金人论》，颂洛邑之美，天人之符，文有可采。
明年，迁庐江太守。
先是，百姓不知牛耕，致地力有余而食常不足。
郡界有楚相孙叔敖所起芍陂稻田。
景乃驱率吏民，修起芜废，教用犁耕，由是垦辟倍多，境内丰给。
遂铭石刻誓，令民知常禁。
又训令蚕织，为作法制，皆著于乡亭，庐江传其文辞。
卒于官。
初，景以为《六经》所载，皆有卜筮，作事举止，质于蓍龟，而众书错糅，吉凶相反，乃参纪众家数术文书，冢宅禁忌，堪舆日相之属，适于事用者，集为《大衍玄基》云。
秦袁字伯平，扶风茂陵人也。
translation: 
After the elderly people heard about it, they all began to miss their hometown and looked westward for a long time affectionately.
Wang Jing believed that the palace and ancestral temple had been built, and he was worried about people's doubts. At that time, divine sparrows and other auspicious signs appeared, so he wrote the "Jinren Lun" to praise the beauty of Luoyi and the corresponding auspiciousness between heaven and man. The article has merit.
The next year, Wang Jing was transferred to Lujiang Prefecture.
Before this, the people in Lujiang did not know how to use cattle to plow the land, resulting in a situation where the land was fertile but the food was often insufficient.
On the border of the county is the Shaopi rice field built by Chu State Prime Minister Sun Shuao.
Wang Jing then led the officials and people to reclaim the barren land and teach the people to cultivate the land with plows. In this way, the cultivated fields more than doubled the original land, and the county had abundant food.
So the commandments were carved on stones so that the people would know the general prohibitions.
In addition, he guided the people to raise silkworms and weave cloth, formulated laws and regulations for them, and engraved all the laws and regulations on pavilions in the countryside. The provisions he formulated are also circulated in Lujiang.
Wang Jing died in office.
At first, Wang Jing thought that everything recorded in the "Six Classics" was all about the dragonfly, and everything was done in accordance with the requirements of the turtle. However, the good and bad fortunes described in the books were inconsistent, so he compiled the books on numerology from various schools, as well as the applicable parts such as taboos on building tombs and houses, yin and yang Feng Shui, astrology, etc., and compiled it into "Dayan Xuanji".
◆Chuan of Qin Peng, Qin Peng, courtesy name Boping, was born in Maoling, Fufeng.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
自汉兴之后，世位相承。
六世祖袭，为颍川太守，与群从同时为二千石者五人，故三辅号曰 万石秦氏 。
彭同产女弟，显宗时入掖庭为贵人，有宠。
永平七年，以彭贵人兄，随四姓小侯擢为开阳城门候。
十五年，拜骑都尉，副驸马都尉耿秉北征匈奴。
建初元年，迁山阳太守。
以礼训人，不任刑罚。
崇好儒雅，敦明庠序。
每春秋飨射，辄修升降揖让之仪。
乃为人设四诫，以定六亲长幼之礼。
有遵奉教化者，擢为乡三老，常以八月致酒肉以劝勉之。
吏有过咎，罢遣而已，不加耻辱。
百姓怀爱，莫有欺犯。
translation: 
Since the Han Dynasty, the Qin family has inherited official positions from generation to generation.
Qin Peng's sixth ancestor Qin Xi served as Ying! There are five people who hold the position of two thousand stones at the same time, so they are called the Wanshi Qin family in the Sanfu area.
Qin Peng's sister entered the palace as a noble during the reign of Emperor Xianzong and was very favored.
In the seventh year of Yongping, as the elder brother of Peng Guiren, Qin Peng was promoted to Kaiyang City Gate Marquis along with Xiaohou, a relative of the fourth surname.
In the fifteenth year, he was awarded the position of Captain of Cavalry and helped Captain Geng Bingbei to conquer the Xiongnu.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Qin Peng was promoted to Shanyang Prefect.
He educated the people with etiquette and justice without punishment.
He respected Confucianism and advocated education.
Every time during the Spring and Autumn period when people were eating and drinking, he would always revise the etiquette of ascending and descending, as well as the courtesy of guests and hosts.
He formulated four precepts for the people to determine the etiquette between father and son, brothers, husband and wife, elder and younger.
Anyone who abides by the teachings will be promoted to the third elder of the village, and he will often be given wine and meat as encouragement in August.
When an official commits a crime or fault, he or she should be removed from his official position and sent away without humiliation.
As a result, the people all had benevolent hearts, and no one deceived or violated each other.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
兴起稻田数千顷，每于农月，亲度顷亩，分别肥瘠，差为三品，各立文簿，藏之乡县。
于是奸吏跼蹐，无所容诈。
彭乃上言，宜令天下齐同其制。
诏书以其所立条式，班令三府，并下州郡。
在职六年，转颍川太守，仍有凤皇、麒麟、嘉禾、甘露之瑞，集其郡境。
肃宗巡行，再幸颍川，辄赏赐钱谷，恩宠甚异。
章和二年卒。
鼓弟忄享、褒，并为射声校尉。
王涣字稚子，广汉郪人也。
父顺，安定太守。
涣少好侠，尚气力，数通剽轻少年。
晚而改节，敦儒学，习《尚书》，读律令，略举大义。
为太守陈宠功曹，当职割断，不避豪右。
宠风声大行，入为大司农。
和帝问曰： 在郡何以为理？
宠顿首谢曰： 臣任功曹王涣以简贤选能，主簿镡显拾遗补阙，臣奉宣诏书而已。
帝大悦，涣由此显名。
州举茂才，除温令。
translation: 
He cultivated thousands of hectares of rice fields. Every farming season, Qin Peng personally measured the acres of land, classified the fertile and barren land, classified them into three grades, recorded them in official books, and stored them in the township and county.
In this way, cunning officials dare not act rashly and cannot hide their evil deeds.
Qin Peng then wrote to the court, saying that it would be best to implement this system throughout the country.
The edict distributed the provisions he listed to the three governments and issued them to the prefectures and counties.
Qin Peng served for six years and was transferred to Yingchuan Prefecture. There are often auspicious signs such as phoenixes, unicorns, particularly strong rice crops, sweet rain and dew, appearing everywhere in the county.
Suzong went out for inspections and when he came to Yingchuan again, he always rewarded him with money and food, and was particularly fond of him.
He died in the second year of Zhanghe.
Qin Peng's younger brothers Qin Dun and Qin Guo served as captains of Shesheng together.
◆Biography of Wang Huan, Wang Huan, courtesy name Zhizi, was from Zheng County, Guangmo.
Wang Huan's father, Wang Shun, served as the governor of Anding.
Wang Huan has been fond of chivalry and advocating martial arts since he was a child. He has interacted with strong and agile young men many times.
Later, he changed his conduct, paid attention to Confucianism, studied "Shangshu", recited the law, and was able to roughly grasp its main meaning.
He served as the meritorious officer of the prefect Chen Chong, and he dared to make decisions regardless of the powerful.
Chen Chong's reputation for political governance spread widely, and he served as chief agricultural officer in the capital.
Emperor He asked him: What method did you use to govern the county?
Chen Chong kowtowed and resigned and said: I have appointed King Huan of Cao Cao to select wise and capable people, and I have appointed Tan Xian, the chief secretary, to correct mistakes and make up for omissions. I just want to read Shao Shu.
Emperor He was very happy after hearing this. Wang Huan became famous from this.
The state government recommended him as Maocai, and the imperial court appointed him as the magistrate of Wen County.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
县多奸猾，积为人患。
涣以方略讨击，悉诛之。
境内清夷，商人露宿于道。
其有放牛者，辄云以属稚子，终无侵犯。
在温三年，迁兗州刺史，绳正部郡，风威大行。
后坐考妖言不实论。
岁余，征拜侍御史。
永元十五年，从驾南巡，还为洛阳令。
以平正居身，得宽猛之宜。
其冤嫌久讼，历政所不断，法理所难平者，莫不曲尽情诈，压塞群疑。
又能以谲数发奸伏。
京师称叹，以为涣有神算。
元兴元年，病卒。
百姓市道莫不咨嗟。
男女老壮皆相与赋敛，致奠醊以千数。
涣丧西归，道经弘农，民庶皆设盘桉于路。
translation: 
There are many cunning and cunning people in the county, who have caused disasters to the people for a long time.
Wang Huan tried every means to attack the bad guys and eliminate them all.
Since then, the territory has been peaceful, and merchants can spend the night on the roadside.
Those who herded cattle often said that they gave the cattle to Wang Huan, and there was never any violation of the cattle.
Wang Huan stayed in Wenxian for three years and was promoted to the governor of Yanzhou. He governed the counties of Yanzhou by law, and moralization and prestige were widely promoted.
Later, he was convicted because his monstrous remarks were not consistent with the truth.
A few years later, he was recruited by the imperial court and granted the position of Shi Yushi.
In the fifteenth year of Yongyuan, Wang Huan followed the emperor to the south for inspection and served as the Luoyang order after returning.
Wang Huan was upright in his conduct and could be lenient and strict in his administration.
For those unjust and doubtful cases that have been litigated for a long time, which have not been resolved by several county magistrates, and which are difficult to judge based on legal basis, Wang Huan can skillfully clarify the truth of the case and eliminate everyone's doubts.
He can also use his uncanny skills to discover hidden bad guys and evil deeds.
The people in the capital all praised and marveled, thinking that Wang Huan had a wonderful plan.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Wang Huan died of illness.
No matter whether it is a city resident or a traveler, everyone sighs.
Men, women, old and young gathered money and food from each other, and thousands of people held memorial ceremonies for him.
Wang Huan's coffin returned to the west and passed through Hongnong on the way. The people set up plates and tables on the roadside and placed sacrifices.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
吏问其故，咸言平常持米到洛，为卒司所抄，恒亡其半。
自王君在事，不见侵枉，故来报恩。
其政化怀物如此。
民思其德，为立祠安阳亭西，每食辄弦歌而荐之。
永初二年，邓太后诏曰： 夫忠良之吏，国家所以为理也。
求之甚勤，得之至寡。
故孔子曰： 才难不其然乎！
莫大司农朱邑、右扶风尹翁归，政迹茂异，令名显闻，孝宣皇帝嘉叹悯惜，而以黄金百斤策赐其子。
故洛阳令王涣，秉清修之节，蹈羔羊之义，尽心奉公，务在惠民，功业未遂，不幸早世，百姓追思，为之立祠。
自非忠爱之至，孰能若斯者乎！
今以涣子石为郎中，以劝劳勤。
延熹中，桓帝事黄、老道，悉毁诸房祀，唯特诏密县存故太傅卓茂庙，洛阳留王涣祠焉。
translation: 
The officials asked them why, and they all said that they usually brought food to Luoyang, but it was plundered by soldiers and officials, and they often lost half of it.
Since Wang Huan became the county magistrate, he has never been invaded again, so he came to repay his kindness.
Wang Huan's administration influenced the people to such an extent.
The people missed his kindness and built an ancestral hall for him to the west of Anyang Pavilion. They sang chords and paid homage to Wang Huan every time they had meals.
In the second year of Yongchu, Empress Dowager Deng issued an edict saying: Only with loyal and talented officials can the country be governed.
The imperial court was very diligent in seeking such officials, but received very little.
So Jie Yizi said: It is difficult to be talented, isn't it?
In the past, when the great ministers Nong Zhuyi and Youfufeng Yin Weng returned home, they had outstanding political achievements and their reputations were praised everywhere. Emperor Xiaoxuan praised them and issued a letter from Shao to reward their sons with a hundred catties of gold.
Wang Huan, the former magistrate of Luoyang, maintained his integrity, followed the meaning explained in "The Poetry of the Lamb", served the public wholeheartedly, and wholeheartedly benefited the people. Unfortunately, he died prematurely because his achievements were not successful. The people remembered him and built an ancestral hall for him.
If he hadn't been extremely loyal and kind, who could have reached such a state!
Now Wang Huan's son Wang Shi is appointed as a doctor to reward those who work hard for the country and the people.
During the Yanxi period, Emperor Huan followed Huang Lao's theory and destroyed all the ancestral halls. He only issued a special edict to preserve the temple of former Taifu Zhuomao in Mi County and Wang Huan's ancestral hall in Luoyang.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
镡显后亦知名，安帝时为豫州刺史。
时，天下肌荒，竞为盗贼，州界收捕且万余人。
显愍其困穷，自陷刑辟，辄擅赦之，因自劾奏。
有诏勿理。
后位至长乐卫尉。
自涣卒后，连诏三公特选洛阳令，皆不称职。
永和中，以剧令勃海任峻补之。
峻擢用文武吏，皆尽其能，纠剔奸盗，不得旋踵，一岁断狱，不过数十，威风猛于涣，而文理不及之。
峻字叔高，终于太山太守。
许荆字少张，会稽阳羡人也。
祖父武，太守第五伦举为孝廉。
武以二弟晏、普未显，欲令成名，乃请之曰： 礼有分异之义，家有别居之道。
translation: 
Tanxian was also famous later. He served as the governor of Yuzhou during the reign of Emperor An.
At that time, there was a famine in the world and people were vying to become thieves. Almost 10,000 people were arrested in Yuzhou.
Duoxian sympathized with the poverty of these people and would rather break the law himself. He often pardoned criminals without permission, thus impeaching himself.
The emperor issued an edict not to accept Tanxian's self-impeachment.
Tanxian later became Changle Weiwei.
Since the death of Wang Huan, the emperor has successively sent Shao letters to the three princes, asking them to select Luoyang orders specifically, but none of the ones selected are incompetent.
During the Yonghe period, the imperial court appointed Ren Jun, the magistrate of Juxian County from Bohai, as the magistrate of Luoyang.
Ren Jun selected civil and military officials and gave full play to their talents. These people cut off the evil thieves and never shrink back, so the number of cases to be decided in a year is only a few dozen. Ren Jun surpassed Wang Huan in terms of prowess, but was not as good as Wang Huan in terms of virtuous governance.
Ren Jun, also known as Shugao, died while serving as the prefect of Taishan.
◆Xu Jingchuan, Xu Jing, courtesy name Shaozhang, was born in Yangxian, Kuaiji.
His grandfather Xu Wu was recommended as Xiaolian by the prefect Wu Lun.
Xu Wu wanted to make his two younger brothers Xu Yan and Xu Pu famous because they were not yet famous, so he called them and said: According to the principle of separation of etiquette, there is also a principle of separation of family property.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
于是共割财产以为三分，武自取肥田广宅奴婢强者，二弟所得并悉劣少。
乡人皆称弟克让而鄙武贪婪，晏等以此并得选举，武乃会宗亲，泣曰： 吾为兄不肖，盗声窃位，二弟长年，未豫荣禄，所以求得分财，自取大讥。
今理产所增，三倍于前，悉以推二弟，一无所留。
于是郡中翕然，远近称之。
位至长乐少府。
荆少为郡吏，兄子世尝报仇杀人，怨者操兵攻之。
荆闻，乃出门逆怨者，跪而言曰： 世前无状相犯，咎皆在荆不能训导。
兄既早没，一子为嗣，如令死者伤其灭绝，愿杀身代之。
怨家扶荆起，曰： 许掾郡中称贤，吾何敢相侵？
因遂委去。
荆名誉益著。
太守黄兢举孝廉。
和帝时，稍迁桂阳太守。
郡滨南州，风俗脆薄，不识学义。
荆为设丧纪婚姻制度，使知礼禁。
translation: 
So the property was divided into three parts. Xu Wu himself took the portion of the rich fields, the spacious house and the slaves who could handle it, while the two younger brothers received a smaller and smaller portion.
People in the same town praised Xu Wu's brother for his humility and despised Xu Wu's greed. Therefore, Xu Yan and Xu Pu were elected. Xu Wuqian gathered his clan relatives and said with tears: As an elder brother, I behaved unethically and stole my reputation and status. My two younger brothers have grown up and have not received wealth and salary, so I asked for a share of the property, and I was willing to be ridiculed.
Now the property under management has tripled than before. I gave it all to my two younger brothers, leaving nothing behind.
So the public opinion in the county unanimously praised Xu Wu.
Xu Wu became the Shaofu of Changle.
Xu Jing was a county official when he was young. His brother's son Xu Shi once killed someone in revenge. People who resented Xu Shi brought weapons to settle the score with him.
After Xu Jing learned about it, he went out to meet his enemies, knelt down and said: "Xu Shi was rude before and offended you, and I am responsible for my failure to teach him."
My brother passed away a long time ago, and I only have one son to continue the bloodline. If the deceased is to suffer the pain of the extinction of the bloodline, I am willing to die instead.
The enemy helped Xu Jing up and said, "You are praised as a virtuous person in the county. How dare we be rude to you?"
So let it go.
Xu Jing's reputation became even more prominent.
The prefect Huang Jing recommended him as Xiaolian.
During the reign of Emperor He, Xu Jing was gradually promoted to the prefect of Guiyang.
Guiyang is close to Nanzhou, and its customs and customs are very frivolous and do not understand knowledge and morality.
Xu Jing made a wedding and funeral system for them to let the people know the etiquette, justice, laws and prohibitions.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
尝行春到耒阳县，人有蒋均者，兄弟争财，互相言讼。
荆对之叹曰： 吾荷国重任，而教化不行，咎在太守。
乃顾使吏上书陈状，乞诣廷尉。
均兄弟感悔，各求受罪。
在事十二年，父老称歌。
以病自上，征拜谏议大夫，卒于官。
桂阳人为立庙树碑。
荆孙有彧，灵帝时为太尉。
孟尝字伯周，会稽上虞上也。
其先三世为郡吏，并伏节死难。
尝少修操行，仕郡为户曹史。
上虞有寡妇至孝养姑。姑年老寿终，夫女弟先怀嫌忌，乃诬妇厌苦供养，加鸩其母，列讼县庭。
郡不加寻察，遂结竟其罪。
尝先知枉状，备言之于太守，太守不为理。
尝哀泣外门，因谢病去，妇竟冤死。
translation: 
He once visited Moyang County in the spring. There was a man named Jiang Jun. Brothers accused each other of fighting over property.
Xu Jing faced the two brothers and sighed: I bear the important responsibility of the country, but the education has not been implemented. The responsibility lies with me, the prefect.
So he turned around and asked the officials around him to write to the court to explain the situation and request to be punished by the court captain.
The Jiang Jun brothers felt regretful and each asked to be punished.
Xu Jing served as governor for twelve years, and the people praised him.
Due to illness, he wrote to the court, and was summoned and appointed as an admonishment official. He died in office.
People in Guiyang built a temple and a monument for him.
Xu Jing's grandson Xu Jian served as Taiwei during the reign of Emperor Ling.
◆Biography of Mengchang, Mengchang, courtesy name Bozhou, was born in Shangyu, Kuaiji.
His ancestors served as county officials for three generations, and they all died in the chaos.
Mengchang cultivated his conduct since he was a child and served as a household official in the county.
There was a widow in Shangyu who took care of her mother-in-law with great filial piety. Her mother-in-law passed away in old age. Her sister-in-law was originally jealous, so she falsely accused the widow of being tired of supporting her mother-in-law, poisoned her mother, and complained to the county.
The county government closed the case and convicted the widow without any investigation.
Mengchang originally knew the widow's grievances and told the eunuch the details, but the eunuch did not go to trial.
Mengchang cried outside the county mansion, so he resigned from his official position on the pretext of illness. The widow eventually died unjustly.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
自是郡中连旱二年，祷请无所获。
后太守殷丹到官，访问其故，尝诣府具陈寡妇冤诬之事。
因曰： 昔东海孝妇，感天致旱，于公一言，甘泽时降。
宜戮讼者，以谢冤魂，庶幽枉获申，时雨可期。
丹从之，即刑讼女而祭妇墓，天应澍雨，谷稼以登。
尝后策孝廉，举茂才，拜徐令。
州郡表其能，迁合浦太守。
郡不产谷实，而海出珠宝，与交阯比境，常通商贩，留籴粮食。
先时宰守并多贪秽，诡人采求，不知纪极，珠遂渐徙于交阯郡界。
于是行旅不至，人物无资，贫者饿死于道。
尝到官，革易前敝，求民病利。
translation: 
Since then, there has been two consecutive years of drought in the county, and no amount of prayer has any effect.
Later, the prefect Yin Dan took office and inquired about the cause of the drought. Mengchang went to the county government to describe in detail the incident of the widow's unjust death. By the way, he said: Once upon a time, there was a filial woman in Shuhai.
The gods were moved to cause drought. With a word from the public, heaven immediately sent down sweet rain.
The person who complained should be killed to apologize to the souls who died unjustly, hoping that the grievances in the underworld would be redressed and the rain could be counted on.
Yin Dan listened to his advice and immediately punished the woman who complained and offered sacrifices to the widow's grave. As a result, heavy rain fell from heaven and the crops were harvested.
Mengchang was later named Xiaolian by Ce and recommended as a scholar.
The imperial court appointed him as the magistrate of Xu County. The state and county governments wrote letters recommending his talents, so he was promoted to the governor of Hepu.
Hepu does not produce food, but the sea produces treasures. Hepu borders Jiaotong, and there are often traders coming and going to buy and sell grain.
Most of the former governors were greedy and asked people to collect pearls without knowing the limit, so the pearls gradually found their way to Jiaoshi County.
As a result, the journeys stopped, people and livestock had nothing to eat, and the poor died of starvation on the roadside.
After Mengchang took office, he got rid of the shortcomings of the past and visited the people's sufferings and things that were beneficial to the people.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
曾未逾岁，去珠复还，百姓皆反其业，商货流通，称为神明。
以病自上，被征当还，吏民攀车请之。
尝既不得进，乃载乡民船夜遁去。
隐处穷泽，身自耕佣。
邻县士民慕其德，就居止者百余家。
桓帝时、尚书同郡杨乔上书荐尝曰：臣前后七表言故合浦太守孟尝，而身轻言微，终不蒙察。
区区破心，徒然而已。
尝安仁弘义，耽乐道德，清行出俗，能干绝群。
前更守宰，移风改政，去珠复还，饥民蒙活。
且南海多珍，财产易积，掌握之内，价盈兼金，而尝单身谢病，躬耕垄次，匿景藏采，不扬华藻。
实羽翮之美用，非徒腹背之毛也。
而沉沦草莽，好爵莫及，廊庙之宝，弃于沟渠。
且年岁有讫，桑榆行尽，而忠贞之节，永谢圣时。
臣诚伤心，私用流涕。
夫物以远至为珍，士以稀见为贵。
蟠木朽珠，为万乘用者，左右为之容耳。
王者取士，宜拔众之所贵。
臣以斗筲之姿，趋走日月之侧。思立微节，不敢苟私乡曲。窃感禽息，亡身进贤。
尝竟不见用。
年七十，卒于家。
translation: 
In less than a year, the lost beads returned to Hepu, the people resumed their business, merchants began to come and go, goods began to circulate, and Meng Chang was praised as wise as a god.
Meng Chang resigned due to illness. The imperial court summoned him and he was about to return to the capital. Officials and people grabbed Meng Chang's car and begged him to stay.
Since Mengchang couldn't leave, he took a villager's boat and left overnight.
Mengchang lived in seclusion in a remote swamp and farmed by himself.
Scholars and people in neighboring counties admired Mengchang's virtues, and more than a hundred people moved to live with him.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Yang Qiao, a native of the same county as Shangshu, wrote to recommend Meng Chang, saying: I have written seven times to recommend Meng Chang, the former prefect of Hepu, but he was so indifferent that he was never considered.
I confessed my heart to him, but it had no effect.
Meng Changan enjoyed benevolence, promoted morality, and was especially obsessed with morality. His behavior was noble and refined, and his talents were outstanding.
When he was a prefect, he changed customs and reformed politics. The lost pearls came back again, and the hungry people relied on him to survive.
Moreover, there are many treasures in the South China Sea, and it is easy to accumulate property. The treasures in his hands are worth more than gold. However, Mengchang retired due to illness alone and worked in the fields himself, hiding his traces and style and not revealing his brilliance.
He is really a great talent used as wings, not as a bundle of feathers on his lower abdomen and back.
However, he was buried in the wilderness, and good officials and nobles had no share in him, causing the national treasure to be abandoned in a ditch.
Besides, his years are limited, he is nearing his twilight years, and his loyal integrity has long withered in the era of sage.
My heart was really hurt, and I shed tears in private.
Objects obtained from far away places were regarded as curiosities, and were generally regarded as precious, unlike the scholars.
The twisted and rotten tree cannot be used by the emperor because of the carvings and decorations by his subordinates.
When the emperor appoints scholars, he should select people who are respected by everyone.
The minister, with his limited talents and short-term talents, rushes around the emperor, thinking about establishing a trivial moral integrity, and does not dare to have secret affairs with his fellow countrymen. In private, he is moved by the behavior of birds of prey, and recommends talented people regardless of his life.
Mengchang was not hired in the end.
He died at home at the age of seventy.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
第五访字仲谋，京兆长陵人，司空伦之族孙也。
少孤贫，常佣耕以养兄嫂。
有闲暇，则以学文。
仕郡为功曹，察孝廉，补新都令。
政平化行，三年之间，邻县归之，户口十倍。
迁张掖太守。
岁饥，粟石数千，访乃开仓赈给以救其敝。
更惧谴，争欲上言。
访曰： 若上须报，是弃民也。
太守乐以一身救百姓！
遂出谷赋人。
顺帝玺书嘉之。
由是一郡得全。
顺辞默谏，多见省用。
复以日食免。
因乞骸骨，卒于家。
刘宠字祖荣，东莱牟平人，齐悼惠王之后也。
悼惠王子孝王将闾，将闾少子封牟平侯，子孙家焉。
translation: 
◆The fifth interview, the fifth interview, named Zhongmou, was from Changling, Jingzhao, and the grandson of Sikong Wulun.
The fifth interview: He lost his father when he was a child. He often farmed in order to support his brother and sister-in-law because his family was poor.
Whenever I have free time, I learn Taoism.
He served as the meritorious officer of the county government, was selected as Xiaolian, and was appointed as the new capital magistrate.
He administered policies fairly and promoted enlightenment. Within three years, people from neighboring counties came to join him, and their household registration increased tenfold.
He was promoted to governor of Zhangye.
There was a famine every year, and the price of one stone of grain rose to several thousand dollars. On the fifth visit, the granary was opened to help the people through the crisis.
Officials were afraid of being held accountable and rushed to report the matter to the court.
The fifth interviewer said: If you submit a letter and wait for a reply, you are leaving the people alone.
I am willing to use my own life to save the people!
So he took out food and distributed it to the people.
Emperor Shun issued the fifth interview of the Shaoshu Commendation.
The people of the whole county were saved.
More than a year later, there were enough officials and people, and no treachery or robberies occurred in the county.
Later he was transferred to Nanyang Prefecture.
After leaving office, he was awarded the post of Colonel Protecting Qiang, and people in the border areas were convinced of his authority.
The fifth visit died in office. ◆Biography of Liu Chong, courtesy name Zurong, a native of Mouping County, Donglai County. Qi mourned the descendants of King Hui.
Prince Hui and Xiao Wang Jianglu, the young son of Lu was granted the title of Hou of Mouping, and his descendants lived in Mouping.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
父丕，博学，号为通儒。
宠少受父业，以明经举孝廉，陈东平陵令，以仁惠为吏民所爱。
母疾，弃官去。
百姓将送塞道，车不得进，乃轻服遁归。
后四迁为豫章太守，又三迁拜会稽太守。
山民愿朴，乃有白首不入市井者，颇为官吏所扰。
宠简除烦苛，禁察非法，郡中大化。征为将作大匠。
山阴县有五六老叟，厖眉皓发，自若邪山谷间出，人赍百钱以送宠。
宠劳之曰： 父老何自苦？
对曰： 山谷鄙生，未尝识郡朝。
它守时吏发求民间，至夜不绝，或狗吠竟夕，民不得安。
自明府下车以来，狗不夜吠，民不见吏。
年老遭值圣明，今闻当见弃去，故自扶奉送。
宠曰： 吾政何能及公言邪？
勤苦父老！
translation: 
Liu Chong's father, Liu Pi, was very knowledgeable and was called Tongru.
Liu Chong learned from his father when he was young. Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he was promoted as Xiaolian and appointed as the magistrate of Dongpingling County. He was loved by the officials and people because of his kindness and kindness to the people.
My mother was ill and left her official position to return home.
The people sent him off, but even the road was blocked and the car could not move forward, so he ran back in civilian clothes.
Later, he was promoted to the post of Yuzhang Prefect four times and to Kuaiji Prefect three times.
Some people in the mountains are simple and reserved, but some have never been to a city since they were young, and are often deceived by officials.
Liu Chong removed those cumbersome rules and regulations and prohibited his subordinates from disturbing the people and other illegal behaviors. The county was in order and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment. He will be appointed as a minister.
There were five or six old men in Shanyin County, their eyebrows and hair were all gray, who came out of the Ruoxie Valley, and each of them gave Liu Chong a hundred coins.
Liu Chong comforted them and said, "Elders, why are you doing this?"
He replied: The ignorant people in the valley have never seen the governor.
In the past, when the prefect was in office, he would send officials to the people to search for property day and night. Sometimes dogs barked all night, and the people had no peace.
Since you took office, no dogs can be heard barking at night, and the common people cannot see the officials.
It is rare for us in our old age to enjoy this peaceful time. Now I heard that you are leaving office, so we are here to send you a gift.
Liu Chong said: How can my politics be what your elders say?
Thank you for your hard work!


Chunk 22: 
original: 
为人选一大钱受之。
转为宗正、大鸿胪。
延熹四年，代黄琼为司空、以阴雾愆阳免。
顷之，拜将作大匠，得为宗正。
建宁元年，代王暢为司空，频迁司徒、太尉。
二年，以日食策免，归乡里。
宠前后历宰二郡，累登卿相，而清约省素，家无货积。
尝出京师，欲息亭舍，亭吏止之，曰： 整顿洒埽，以待刘公，不可得止。
宠无言而去，时人称其长者。
以老病卒于家。
弟方，官至山阳太守。
方有二子：贷字公山，繇字正礼。
兄弟齐名称。
董卓入洛阳，岱从侍中出为兗州刺史。
虚己爱物，为士人所附。
初平三年，青州黄巾贼入兗州，杀任城相郑遂，转入东平。
岱击之，战死。
兴平中，繇为杨州牧、振威将军。
时袁术据淮南，繇乃移居曲阿。
值中国丧乱，士友多南奔，繇携接收养，与同优剧，甚得名称。
袁术遣孙策攻破繇，因奔豫章，病卒。
仇览字季智，一名香，除留考城人也。
translation: 
He picked a big one from each person's money and accepted it.
Transferred to Zongzheng and Dahonglu.
In the fourth year of Yanxi's reign, he replaced Huang Qiong as Sikong. He was dismissed because of the cloudy and foggy weather.
Soon, he was awarded the title of Great Craftsman and was appointed Zongzheng again.
In the first year of Jianning, he succeeded Wang Chang as Sikong, and was successively appointed as Situ and Taiwei.
In the second year, he was dismissed from office due to a solar eclipse and returned to his hometown.
Liu Chong was successively appointed as the governor of two counties, and served as prime minister and high official many times. However, he was honest and simple, and his family did not have much wealth.
He once went out from the capital and wanted to rest in a pavilion. The pavilion official stopped him and said: "We are tidying up the house and cleaning it to wait for Liu Gong's arrival. You are not allowed to rest here."
Liu Chong left without saying anything. People at that time called him an elder.
Died at home due to old age and illness.
Liu Chong's younger brother Liu Fang was promoted to Shanyang Prefecture.
Liu Fang had two sons: Liu Dai, nicknamed Gongshan, and Liu Yao, nicknamed Zhengli.
Brothers have the same name.
Dong Zhuo entered Luoyang, and Liu Dai served as the governor of Yanzhou.
He loved things with an open mind and was supported by scholars.
In the third year of Chuping, the Yellow Turban bandits from Qingzhou entered Yanzhou, killed Zheng Sui, the prime minister of the city, and then moved into Dongping.
Liu Dai attacked the Yellow Turban bandit and died in battle.
During the period of prosperity, Liu Yao was appointed as Yangzhou Shepherd and General Zhenwei.
At this time, Yuan Shu occupied Huainan, and Liu Yao had no choice but to move to Qu'a.
When the country was in chaos, many friends of the scholar-bureaucrats fled to the south. Liu Yao took him in and adopted him, sharing the hardships with them and gaining a good reputation.
Yuan Shu sent Sun Ce to attack Liu Yao, but Liu Yao ran to Yuzhang and died of illness.
◆Qiu Lan's biography, Qiu Lan's courtesy name is Jizhi, his surname is Xiang, and he is a native of Kaocheng County, Chenliu County.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
少为书生淳默，乡里无知者。
年四十，县召补史，选为蒲亭长。
劝人生业，为制科令，至于果菜为限，鸡豕有数，农事既毕，乃令子弟群居，还就黉学。
其剽轻游恣者，皆役以田桑，严设科罚。
躬助丧事，赈恤穷寡。
期年称大化。
览初到亭，人有陈元者，独与母居，而母诣览告元不孝。
览惊曰： 吾近日过舍，庐落整顿，耕耘以时。
此非恶人，当是教化未及至耻。
母守寡养孤，苦身投老，奈何肆忿于一朝，欲致子以不义乎？
母闻感悔，涕泣而去。
览乃亲到元家，与其母子饮，因为节人伦孝行，譬以祸福之言。
元卒成孝子。
乡邑为之谚曰： 父母何在在我庭，化我鳲枭哺所生。
translation: 
When he was young, he was a scholar, simple and silent, and no one in the village knew about him.
When he was forty years old, the county government called him to serve as a supplementary official and he was promoted to chief of Pu Pavilion.
Advise the people to manage production and formulate regulations and laws to ensure that there are as many fruits and vegetables as there are chickens and hogs. After the farm work is finished, the children are gathered together to study in school.
Those who were idle and doing evil were made to farm and cultivate mulberry trees, and were strictly disciplined.
He personally managed funerals for the people and helped the poor and widowed.
Within a year, the education was widespread.
When Qiu Lan arrived at the pavilion, there was a man named Chen Yuan who lived alone with his mother. His mother went to Qiu Lan to accuse Chen Yuan of being unfilial.
Qiu Lan said in surprise: "I passed by your house recently. The courtyard is neat and cultivated on time."
He is not a bad person, maybe it is because my education is not up to standard.
The mother is widowed and has worked hard to raise orphans until she grows old. Why does she want to cause her son to be unjust when she gets angry?
The mother was moved after hearing this, regretted it, and went back in tears.
Qiu Lan personally went to Chen Yuan's house to have a drink with his mother and son. He talked to them about human ethics and filial piety, and warned them about the dangers and benefits.
Chen Yuan finally became a filial son.
There is a popular proverb in the countryside: Where are my parents? They were born in my garden and were fed by my owl.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
时考城令河内王涣，政尚严猛，闻览以德化人，署为主簿。
谓览曰： 主簿闻陈元之过，不罪而化之，得无少鹰鹯之志邪？
览曰： 以为鹰鹯，不若鸾凤。
涣谢遣曰： 枳棘非鸾凤所栖，百里岂大贤之路？
今日太学曳长裾，飞名誉，皆主簿后耳。
以一月奉为资，勉卒景行。
览入太学。
时，诸生同郡符融有高名，与览比宇，宾客盈室。
览常自守，不与融言。
融观其容止，心独奇之，乃谓曰： 与先生同郡壤，邻房牖。
今京师英雄四集，志士交结之秋，虽务经常，守之何因？
览乃正色曰： 天子修设太学，岂但使人游谈其中！
高揖而去，不复与言。
后融以告郭林宗，林宗因与融赍刺就房谒之，遂请留宿。
林宗嗟叹，下床为拜。
览学毕归乡里，州郡并请，皆以疾辞。
虽在宴居，必以礼自整。
translation: 
At this time, King Huan of Hanoi, the commander of Kaocheng, was a fierce advocate for politics. Hearing that Qiu Lan used virtue to transform people, he appointed him as chief administrator.
Said to Qiu Lan: You know Chen Yuan's fault. If you don't deal with him, you may be lacking a little bit of falconry.
Qiu Lan said: It is better to be a falcon than a phoenix.
Wang Huan sent him off and said: "Zhiji is not a place where Luan Feng lives. Is this small county of mine a place where great sages display their talents?"
Nowadays, the Taixue is dragging his robes and flying in fame. They are all descendants of the master!
Give him a month's salary and encourage him to achieve noble virtues.
Qiu Lan entered Imperial College.
At this time, Fu Rong, a famous person from the same county, was a neighbor of Qiu Lan, and the house was full of guests.
Qiu Lan often tidied himself up and did not talk to Fulong.
Fulong looked at Qiu Lan's every move and felt that this person was a bit strange, so he said to Qiu Lan: "I am from the same hometown as my husband, and we are neighbors."
Episode 4 of Today's Heroes of the Capital is a time for ambitious people to get together. Even though they emphasize studying classics, why should they be so stubborn?
Qiu Lan said seriously: Did the emperor establish the Imperial Academy just to allow people to talk here?
He gave a long bow and left, not talking to him anymore.
Later, Fulong told Guo Linzong about this. Lin Zongyin and Fulong took their business cards to visit Qiu Lan, and Qiu Lan stayed with them.
Guo Linzong sighed and got out of bed to worship.
After Qiu Lan returned to his hometown after studying, the prefectures and counties invited him to go, but Qiu Lan couldn't leave because of illness.
Even if you are at home on weekdays, you must still ask for etiquette.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
妻子有过，辄免冠自责。
妻子庭谢，候览冠，乃敢升堂。
家人莫见喜怒声色之异。
后征方正，遇疾而卒。
三子皆有文史才，少子玄，最知名。
童恢字汉宗，琅邪姑幕人也。
父仲玉，遭玉凶荒，倾家赈恤，九族乡里赖全者以百数。
仲玉早卒。
恢少仕州郡为吏，司徒杨赐闻其执法廉平，乃辟之。
乃赐被劾当免，掾属悉投刺去，恢独诣阙争之。
乃得理，掾属悉归府，恢杖策而逝。
由是论者归美。
复辟公府，除不其令。
吏人有犯违禁法，辄随方晓示。若吏称其职，人行善事者，皆赐以酒肴之礼，以劝励之。
耕织种收，皆有条章。
一境清静，牢狱连年无囚。
比县流人归化，徙居二万余户。
translation: 
My wife has it, and she often takes off her hat and blames herself.
His wife thanked him in court and waited for Qiu Lan to put on his hat before he dared to go to the court.
The family members did not see any strange emotions or emotions.
Later, he conquered Fangzheng and died of illness.
The three sons all have literary and historical talents. The youngest son Qiu Xuan is the most famous.
◆Tong Hui's biography, Tong Hui's courtesy name was Han Zong, and he was a native of Gumu Mu, Langfu County.
His father, Tong Zhongyu, encountered a period of severe famine and used all his family property to provide relief. Hundreds of people from the nine tribes and the village relied on him to survive.
Tong Zhongyu died very early.
When Tong Hui was young, he worked as an official in the state and county. Situ Yangci knew that he was fair in enforcing the law, so he recruited him.
When Yang Ci was impeached and should be removed from office, all his subordinates abandoned him and left. Only Tong Hui went to the court to argue for Yang Ci.
Yang Ci's case was vindicated, and all his subordinates came back, but Tong Hui drove away.
Therefore, public opinion praised him.
He was then conscripted into the government, but was not given the order.
County officials and the people should be educated at any time if they break the law; if the officials are competent and if some of the people have done good deeds, they will be rewarded with food and wine to encourage and dissuade them.
There are regulations for farming, textile and other production undertakings.
The whole place is quiet, and the prison has been empty for years without a single prisoner.
The exiled population from neighboring counties came to join us, and more than 20,000 households moved there.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
民尝为虎所害，乃设槛捕之，生获二虎。
恢闻而出，咒虎曰： 天生万物，唯人为贵。
虎狼当食六畜，而残暴于人。
王法杀人者伤，伤人则论法。
汝若是杀人者，当垂头服罪；自知非者，当号呼称冤。
一虎低头闭目，状如震惧，即时杀之。
其一视恢鸣吼，踊跃自奋，遂令放释。
吏人为之歌颂。
青州举尤异，迁丹阳太守，暴疾而卒。
弟翊字汉文，名高于恢，宰府先辟之。
翊阳喑不肯仕，及恢被命，乃就孝廉，除须昌长。
化有异政，吏人生为立碑。
闻举将丧，弃官归。
后举茂才，不就。卒于家。
赞曰： 政界张急，理善亨鲜。
推忠以及，众瘼自蠲。
translation: 
The common people were often harmed by tigers. They set up fences to catch tigers and captured two tigers alive.
Tong Hui came out and scolded the tiger: "Of all things in nature, only human beings are the most valuable."
Tigers and wolves should eat horses, cattle, sheep, chickens, dogs, and hogs, but you are cruel and harmful to people.
According to the king's law, those who kill people are put to death, and those who hurt people are punished.
If you have murdered someone, you should bow your head and confess your guilt; if you think you have done nothing, you should cry out for injustice.
Yihu lowered his head and closed his eyes, showing a look of shock and fear, and immediately killed him.
The other tiger looked at Tong Hui and roared and kept jumping. Tong Hui ordered it to be let go.
County officials and people sang his praises.
Qingzhou recommended him for his outstanding achievements and promoted him to the prefect of Danyang, but he died of a sudden illness.
His younger brother, Tong Yi, had Chinese characters and was more famous than Tong Hui, so the prime minister promoted him first.
Tong Yi could not speak due to illness and refused to serve as an official. After Tong Hui was ordered, he became filial and honest, and was awarded the title of "Xuchangchang".
There are special achievements in education, and county officials and people are born to erect monuments.
I heard that the recommender was about to die and abandoned his official position.
Later he was promoted to a distinguished scholar, but he died at home.
Zan said: The most fearful thing about governance is that it is too strict. Proper governance is as easy as cooking a small fish.
Extend loyalty and forgiveness to yourself and others, and many ills will naturally be eliminated.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
一夫得情，千室鸣统。
怀我风爱，永载遗贤。
translation: 
One person can grasp the sentiments of the people, and thousands of families can play the piano and make music.
Remember their kindness and remember the sages of previous generations forever.


