Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 天垂象，圣人则之。
宦者四星，在皇位之侧，故《周礼》置官，亦备其数。
阍者守中门之禁，寺人掌女宫之戒。
又云 王之正内者五人 。
《月令》： 仲冬，命阉尹审门闾，谨房室。
《诗》之《小雅》，亦有《巷伯》刺谗之篇。
然宦人之在王朝者，其来旧矣。
将以其体非全气，情志专良，通关中人，易以役养乎？
然而后世因之，才任稍广，其能者，则勃貂、管苏有功于楚、晋，景监、缪贤著庸于秦、赵。
及其敝也，则竖刁乱齐，伊戾祸宋。
汉兴，仍袭秦制，置中常侍官。
translation: 
◆In the preface to the biographies of eunuchs, "Book of Changes" says: Heaven shows down the image of the Dharma, and the saints imitate it.
There are four eunuch stars in the sky, next to the emperor star, so the "Book of Rites of Zhou" includes eunuchs to fill the number.
The eunuchs guard the inner gate of the palace, and the eunuchs guard the precepts of the female palace.
"The Rites of Zhou" also says: There are five servants in the king's bedroom.
The "Moon Order" records: In the middle of winter, the officials in charge of the eunuchs were ordered to inspect the gates and keep the doors open and closed.
There is also a poem called "Xiang Bo" written by an eunuch in "The Book of Songs·Xiaoya" that satirizes King You of Zhou for believing in slander.
It can be seen that eunuchs have been serving in the imperial court for a long time.
Probably because they have insufficient yang energy in their bodies, are single-minded in temperament, and have no evil thoughts. They are easy to interact with and manage the people in the palace, right?
However, later generations followed this system and the scope of their appointment gradually expanded. Among them, talented ones such as Bo Diao and Guan Su made contributions to the Jin and Chu states. Jing Jian and Miao Xian made contributions to the Qin and Zhao states because they recommended Shang Yang and Lin Xiangru respectively.
As for the disasters caused by eunuchs, they caused chaos to the Qi State and brought violence to the Song State. These are obvious examples.
When the Han Dynasty flourished, the system of the Qin Dynasty was still used, and the official position of Zhongchangshi was set up.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
然亦引用士人，以参其选，皆银珰左貂，给事殿省。
及高后称制，乃以张卿为大谒者，出入卧内，受宣诏命。
文帝时，有赵谈、北宫伯子，颇见亲幸。
至于孝武，亦爱李延年。
帝数宴后庭，或潜游离馆，故请奏机事，多以宦人主之。
至元帝之世，史游为黄门令，勤心纳忠，有所补益。
其后弘恭、石显以佞险自进，卒有萧、周之祸，损秽帝德焉。
中兴之初，宦官悉用阉人，不复杂调他士。
至永平中，始置员数，中常侍四人，小黄门十人。
和帝即祚幼弱，而窦宪兄弟专总权威，内外臣僚，莫由亲接，所与居者，唯庵宦而已。
故郑众得专谋禁中，终除大憝，遂享分土之封，超登宫卿之位。
于是中官始盛焉。
自明帝以后，迄乎延平，委用渐大，而其员稍增，中常侍至有十人，小黄门二十人，改以金珰右貂，兼领卿署之职。
邓后以女主临政，而万机殷远，朝臣国议，无由参断帷幄，称制下令，不出房闱之间，不得不委用刑人，寄之国命。
手握王爵，口含天宪，非复掖廷永巷之职，闺牖房闼之任也。
其后孙程定立顺之功，曹腾参建桓之策，续以五侯合谋，梁冀受钺，迹因公正，恩固主心，故中外服从，上下屏气。
或称伊、霍之勋，无谢于往载；或谓良、平之画，复兴于当今。
虽时有忠公，而竟见排斥。
translation: 
But it is also cited that scholars participated in the selection of regular servants. They all wear hats decorated with silver bells and sable tails, and work in the palace and Taiwan Province.
When Empress Lu came to the throne, she appointed Zhang Qing as her chief visitor, who came in and out of her bedroom to receive and convey her orders.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, there were uncles Zhao Tan and Beigong, who were very lucky to have relatives.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty also loved Li Yannian.
Emperor Wu had banquets in the harem many times, or secretly visited the villa outside the palace. Therefore, eunuchs were usually responsible for reporting confidential matters.
By the time of Emperor Yuan, Shi You was the magistrate of Huangmen. He was loyal and diligent, and was very helpful to political affairs.
Later, Hong Gong and Shi Xian relied on insidious flattery to get promoted, which finally led to the murder of Xiao Wangzhi and the deposed Zhou Kan, which damaged and tarnished the emperor's virtue.
At the beginning of the Eastern Han Dynasty when the dynasty was reestablished, all eunuchs were eunuchs and no longer mixed with other scholars.
During the Yongping period, the staff began to be recruited: four people from the Zhongchang sect and ten people from the Xiaohuang sect.
Emperor He ascended the throne at a young age, and the Dou Xian brothers controlled the government. Officials inside and outside were unable to approach Emperor He, and only eunuchs lived with Emperor He.
Therefore, the eunuch Zheng Zhong was able to make plans with Emperor He alone in the forbidden palace, and finally killed the traitorous minister Dou Xian. Zheng Zhong was named the Marquis of Chao'an Township and was given the title of Palace Minister.
The power of eunuchs began to grow.
From Emperor Ming to the Yanping period, the scope of eunuch appointments was gradually expanded, and the number of eunuchs was slightly increased. The number of eunuchs increased to ten, and the number of small Huangmen was twenty. The decorations on their hats were all changed to gold right mink, and they also served as Jiuqing and other foreign court officials.
Empress Dowager Deng presided over the government as a heroine, and there were many political affairs. The courtiers discussed national affairs and could not enter the inner palace to participate in planning and issue edicts without going beyond the queen's residence. Therefore, she had to appoint eunuchs and pin the fate of the country on them.
They hold the power of nobility in their hands and carry the royal decrees in their mouths. They no longer just hold positions in the palace and Yongxiang.
Later, the eunuch Sun Cheng made great achievements in supporting Emperor Shun, and Cao Teng participated in the plan to support Emperor Huan. Subsequently, the five marquises Shan Chao, Xu Huang, Ju Yuan, Zuo Xuanguan, and Tang Heng conspired to have Liang Ji, a relative of his, executed. What they did was fair and just, and their kindness was in the emperor's heart, so they obeyed both inside and outside the court, and no one dared to criticize them.
Some people praise them for having the same achievements as Yi Yin and Huo Guang, and are worthy of the previous generations; some say that the strategies of Zhang Liang and Chen Ping have appeared again today.
Although there were loyal ministers who served the public affairs at that time, they were eventually rejected.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
举动回山海，呼吸变霜露。
阿旨曲求，则光宠三族；直情忤意，则参夷五宗。
汉之纲纪大乱矣。
若夫高冠长剑，纡朱怀金者，布满宫闱；苴茅分虎，南面臣人者，盖以十数。
府署第馆，棋列于都鄙；子弟支附，过半于州国。南金、和宝、冰纨、雾縠之积，盈仞珍藏；嫱媛、侍兒、歌单、舞女之玩，充备绮室。狗马饰雕文，土木被缇绣。
皆剥割萌黎，竞恣奢欲。
构害明贤，专树党类。
其有更相援引，希附权强者，皆腐身熏子，以自炫达。
同敝相济，故其徒有繁，败国蠹败之事，不可单书。
所以海内嗟毒，志士穷栖，寇剧缘间，摇乱区夏。
虽忠良怀愤，时或奋发，而言出祸从，旋见孥戮。
因复大考钩党，转相诬染。
凡称善士，莫不离被灾毒。
translation: 
Their actions move mountains and oceans, and their breath turns frost into dew.
Those who try their best to satisfy their demands will bring glory to the three tribes; those who do not hide their feelings and go against their wishes will have their relatives near and far destroyed.
The laws and regulations of the Han Dynasty were extremely chaotic.
The eunuchs wearing high crowns, long swords, and red ribbons with gold seals were all over the palace; there were probably dozens of eunuchs who were granted the title of marquis, worshiped as county guards, and ruled over others in the south.
Their government offices and residences are dotted in large and small cities; their descendants, clans and their dependents account for more than half of the state; the treasure house is filled with gold, He's jade, thin and transparent silk yarn from the south; "playthings" such as concubines, maids, singers, and dancers fill the gorgeous rooms; dogs and horses are decorated with floral silks, and civil buildings are decorated with brocade silks and satins.
They plundered and exploited the common people, and were extravagant and lustful.
They framed virtuous people and specially built party members.
There are even some pulling each other's back, trying to follow others' trends, and not hesitate to embarrass themselves in order to show off.
They help each other and have similar odors, so the number of party members is increasing, and they have committed countless crimes that have ruined the country and harmed the government.
As a result, the whole country was filled with sighs and resentment, and there was no place for people with lofty ideals. Bandits and thieves took advantage of the opportunity to rise up and disrupt China.
Although loyal and good people were resentful and sometimes stood up to denounce the eunuchs, if they spoke out, they would be immediately arrested and killed.
The party's prisons were also established, and those who were convicted turned around and made false accusations.
Anyone who is called a good person is not immune to persecution.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
自曹腾说梁冀，竟立昏弱。
魏武因之，遂迁龟鼎。所谓 君以此始，必以此终 ，信乎其然矣！
郑众字季产，南阳犨人也。
为人谨敏有心几。
永平中，初给事太子家。
肃宗即位，拜小黄门，迁中常侍。
和帝初，加位钩盾令。
时窦太后秉政，后兄大将军宪等并窃威权，朝臣上下莫不附之，而众独一心王室，不事豪党，帝亲信焉。
及宪兄弟图作不轨，众遂首谋诛之，以功迁大长秋。
策勋班赏，每辞多受少。
由是常与议事。
中官用权，自众始焉。
十四年，帝念众功美，封为鄛乡侯，食邑千五百户。
永初元年，和熹皇后益封三百户。
元初元年卒，养子闳嗣。闳卒，子安嗣。
后国绝。
桓帝延熹二年，绍封众曾孙石雠为关内侯。
translation: 
Although Yuan Shao respectfully carried out heaven's punishment and killed all the eunuchs, replacing chaos with violence could not be said to have achieved the goal of stabilizing the Han Dynasty!
Since Cao Teng persuaded Liang Ji to establish a weak emperor, Emperor Huan, Wei Emperor Wu Cao Cao used this method to control the weak emperor, and finally made the emperor's treasures belong to Cao Wei. The so-called, what you start from here must also end at this point. The Han Dynasty began to favor and trust the eunuchs, but eventually perished because of the eunuchs. This is indeed the case!
◆Zheng Zhongchuan, whose courtesy name is Ji Chan, was born in Tao County, Nanyang County.
He is cautious, alert and calculating.
In Yongpingzhong, he began to work at the prince's house.
When Suzong ascended the throne, he was granted the title of Xiaohuangmen and promoted to a regular attendant.
In the early days of Emperor He's reign, he was granted the title of "Yi Judun".
At this time, Empress Dowager Dou was in power, and the Empress Dowager's brother, General Dou Xian, and others were stealing authority. All officials in the court were dependent on him. Only Zheng Zhong was devoted to the royal family and did not curry favor with powerful parties. The emperor trusted him very much.
When the Dou Xian brothers were plotting evil, Zheng Zhong first planned to kill them, and he was promoted to the Great Changqiu due to their merits.
When the emperor gives rewards based on merit, he always says more and receives less.
Therefore, the emperor often discussed matters with him.
The use of power by eunuchs began with Zheng Zhong.
In the fourteenth year of Yongyuan, the emperor read Zheng Zhonggong's works and made him the Marquis of Chao'an Township, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the first year of Yongchu, Queen Hexi granted him 300 more households.
He died in the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, and his adopted son Zheng Hong succeeded to the throne. After Zheng Hong died, his son Zheng An succeeded to the throne.
After the country is gone.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, Emperor Huan issued an imperial edict to confer Zheng Zhong's great-grandson Shi Yan as the Marquis of Guannei.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
蔡伦字敬仲，桂阳人也。
以永平末始给事宫掖，建初中，为小黄门。
及和帝即位，转中常侍，豫参帷幄。
伦有才学，尽心敦慎，数犯严颜，匡弼得失。
每至休沐，辄闭门绝宾，暴体田野。
后加位尚方令。
永元九年，监作秘剑及诸器械，莫不精工坚密，为后世法。
自古书契多编以竹简，其用缣帛者谓之为纸。
缣贵而简重，并不便于人。
伦乃造意，用树肤、麻头及敝布、鱼网以为纸。
元兴元年奏上之，帝善其能，自是莫不从用焉，故天下咸称 蔡侯纸 。
元初元年，邓太后以伦久宿卫，封为龙亭侯，邑三百户。后为长乐太仆。
translation: 
◆Cai Lun's biography, Cai Lun's courtesy name is Jingzhong, a native of Guiyang County.
In the last years of Yongping, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, he began to work in the inner court of the imperial palace. In the early years of Emperor Zhang's reign, it was the Xiaohuang Gate.
When Emperor He came to the throne, Cai Lun became a regular servant and participated in the formulation of government orders.
Cai Lun was talented, dedicated to official duties, honest and cautious. He violated the emperor's will many times and assisted in correcting the emperor's gains and losses.
On vacation days, he often closes the door without receiving guests and walks in the fields.
Later he was promoted to Shangshu Ling.
In the ninth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Cai Lun supervised the production of swords and other instruments used in royal funerals. They were all exquisite and strong, and were imitated by future generations.
Since ancient times, most writings have been carved on bamboo slips and then compiled into books. Those who write on silk silk call it paper.
The tapes are expensive and the bamboo slips are heavy and inconvenient.
Cai Lun then created designs and made paper out of tree bark, hemp heads, rags, and fishing nets.
In the first year of Emperor Yuanxing's reign, he presented the paper to Emperor He, who appreciated Cai Lun's talents. Since then, everyone has used this kind of paper, and it is called Caihou Paper in the world.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An of the Han Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng named Cai Lun the Marquis of Longting because he had been in the imperial court for a long time, and granted him a fief of 300 households. Later, he was made a servant of Changle Palace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四年，帝以经传之文多不正定，乃选通儒谒者刘珍及博士良史诣东观，各校家法，令伦监典其事。
伦初受窦后讽旨，诬陷安帝祖母宋贵人。
及太后崩，安帝始亲万机，敕使自致廷尉。
伦耻受辱，乃沐浴整衣冠，饮药而死。
国除。
孙程字稚卿，涿郡新城人也。
安帝时，为中黄门，给事长乐宫。
时邓太后临朝，帝不亲政事。
小黄门李闰与帝乳母王圣常共谮太后兄执金吾悝等，言欲废帝，立平原王翼，帝每忿惧。
及太后崩，遂诛邓氏而废平原王，封闰雍乡侯；又小黄门江京以谗谄进，初迎帝于邸，以功封都乡侯，食邑各三百户。
闰、京并迁中常侍，江京兼大长秋，与中常侍樊丰、黄门令刘安、钩盾令陈达及王圣、圣女伯荣扇动内外，竞为侈虐。
translation: 
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor An was unable to correct the text errors in the classics, so he sent Liu Zhen, an emissary who was proficient in Confucianism, and Liang Shi, a doctor, to Dongguan. They each used their own Confucian teachers' theories to collate the classics, and ordered Cai Lun to supervise and manage the affairs.
Cai Lun first accepted Empress Dowager Dou's hint and framed Song Guiren, the grandmother of Emperor An.
After the death of Empress Dowager Dou, Emperor An began to take charge of the government personally and ordered Cai Lun to confess to Tingwei himself.
Cai Lun was ashamed of being insulted by the jailer, so he took a bath, straightened his clothes, took medicine and committed suicide.
The feudal states were cancelled.
◆The biography of Sun Cheng, whose courtesy name is Zhiqing, was born in Xincheng, Zhuojun County.
During the reign of Emperor An, he worked for Zhonghuangmen and worked in Changle Palace.
At that time, Empress Dowager Deng was in court, and the emperor did not care about political affairs.
Li Run of Xiaohuangmen and Wang Sheng, the emperor's nanny, often slandered the Queen Mother's brother Zhijinwu, Deng Kui and others, saying that they wanted to depose the emperor and make Pingyuan Wangyi the emperor. Emperor An was afraid and hated him.
After the death of the Queen Mother, she executed the Deng family, deposed the King of Pingyuan, and granted Li Run the title of Marquis of Yongxiang. In addition, Jiang Jing of Xiaohuangmen framed others with sweet words. He first welcomed the emperor to his residence, and granted him the title of Marquis of the capital and township for his merits, with 300 households each.
Li Run and Jiang Jing were both promoted to Standing Ministers, and Jiang Jing also served as Changqiu. Together with Fan Feng, Huangmen Ling Liu An, Goudun Ling Chen Da, Wang Sheng, and Wang Sheng's daughter Bo Rong instigated internal and external disputes in the royal family.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
又帝舅大将军耿宝、皇后兄大鸿胪阎显更相阿党，遂枉杀太尉杨震，废皇太子为济阴王。
明年帝崩，立北乡侯为天子。
显等遂专朝争权，乃讽有司奏诛樊丰，废耿宝、王圣，及党与皆见死徙。
十月，北乡侯病笃。
程谓济阴王谒者长兴渠曰： 王以嫡统，本无失德，先帝用谗，遂至废黜。
若北乡疾不起，共断江京、阎显，事乃可成。
渠等然之。
又中黄门南阳王康，先为太子府史，自太子之废；常怀叹愤。
又长乐太官丞京兆王国，并附同于程。
至二十七日，北乡侯薨。
阎显白太后，征诸五子简为帝嗣。
未及至，十一月二日，程遂与王康等十八人，聚谋于西钟下，皆戴单衣为誓。
四日夜，程等共会崇德殿上，因入章台门。
translation: 
In addition, the emperor's uncle, General Geng Bao, and the queen's brother, Da Hong, Yan Xian, formed a clique with each other for personal gain. They killed Taiwei Yang Zhen in vain and deposed the crown prince as King Jiyin.
The emperor died the next year and made the Marquis of Beixiang the emperor.
Yan Xian and others concentrated on the government and fought for power and profit, so they suggested that those in charge kill Fan Feng, depose Geng Bao, Wang Sheng and their party members, banished those who moved, and executed those who died.
In October, the Marquis of Beixiang became seriously ill.
Sun Cheng said to Chang Xingqu, the visitor of King Jiyin: King Jiyin is the direct descendant, and there was nothing wrong with him. The late emperor deposed him because of his slander.
If Beixiang Hou's illness cannot be cured, we can kill Jiang Jing and Yan Xian, and great things can be accomplished.
Xingqu and others think it is right.
Wang Kang of Nanyang, Huangmen, was first the history of the prince's palace. Since the prince was deposed, he often harbors resentments and sighs.
In addition, Changle Taiguan, Cheng Jingzhao Kingdom, all agreed with Sun Cheng's idea.
On the 27th, the Marquis of Beixiang died of illness.
Yan Xian told the Queen Mother to recruit the princes Jian to be the emperor's heirs.
Before it arrived, on November 2, Sun Cheng, Wang Kang and other eighteen people gathered under the West Bell to plan. They all cut off their clothes and swore an oath.
On the night of the fourth day, Sun Cheng and others gathered at Chongde Hall and entered Zhangtai Gate.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
时，江京、刘安及李闰、陈达等俱坐省门下，程与王康共就斩京、安、达，以李闰权势积为省内所服，欲引为主，因举刃胁闰曰： 今当立济阴王，无得摇动。
闰曰： 诺。
于是扶闰起，俱于西钟下迎济阴王立之，是为顺帝。
召尚书令、仆射以下，从辇幸南宫云台，程等留守省门，遮扞内外。
阎显时在禁中，忧迫不知所为，小黄门樊登劝显发兵，以太后诏召越骑校尉冯诗、虎贲中郎将阎崇，屯朔平门，以御程等。
诱诗入省，太后使授之印，曰： 能得济阴王者封万户侯，得李闰者五千户侯。
显以诗所将众少，使与登迎吏士于左掖门外。
诗因格杀登，归营屯守。
显弟卫尉景遽从省中还外府，收兵至盛德门。
程传召诸尚书使收景。
尚书郭镇时卧病，闻之，即率直宿羽林出南止车门，逢景从吏士，拔白刃，呼白： 无干兵。
镇即下车，持节诏之。
translation: 
At this time, Jiang Jing, Liu An, Li Run, Chen Da and others were all sitting under the provincial gate. Sun Cheng and Wang Kangyin jointly killed Jiang Jing, Liu An, and Chen Da. Because Li Run was powerful and was obeyed by the palace, they wanted to make him the master. They raised their swords and threatened Li Run and said: Now we should establish King Jiyin and not be shaken.
Li Run said: Yes.
So Li Run was lifted up, and everyone welcomed King Jiyin under the West Bell to succeed him to the throne as Emperor Shun.
Summon the minister, Ling and Pushe, and follow the emperor's carriage to Yuntai, Nangong. Sun Cheng and others stayed at the palace gate to isolate the inside and outside.
Yan Xian was in the palace at this time. He was worried and didn't know what to do. Fan Deng of Xiaohuangmen persuaded Yan Xian to send troops. He used the Queen Mother's edict to summon Yue Cavalry School Captain Feng Shi and Huben Zhonglang General Yan Chong to station at Shuoping Gate to resist Sun Cheng and others.
After luring Feng Shi into the palace, the Empress Dowager ordered someone to grant him a seal, saying: Anyone who can capture King Ji Yin will be granted the title of Marquis of 10,000 households, and anyone who captures Li Run will be granted the title of Marquis of 5,000 households.
Yan Xian, because Feng Shi led few soldiers, asked him and Fan Deng to greet the officials outside Zuoye Gate.
Feng Shi killed Fan Deng and returned to the camp to garrison.
Yan Xian's younger brother, Wei Wei Yan Jing, hurriedly returned from the palace to the outer palace and withdrew his troops to Shengdemen.
Sun Cheng summoned the ministers to arrest Yan Jing.
Shangshu Guo Zhen was ill at this time. After listening to Sun Cheng's order, he immediately led Yu Lin, who was on duty, out of the south carriage door. When he met Yan Jing's entourage, he drew his white blade and shouted: "No troops are allowed."
Guo Zhen immediately got out of the car and ordered him with a talisman.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
景曰： 何等诏？
因听镇，不中。镇引剑击景墯车，左右以戟叉其匈，遂禽之，送廷尉狱，即夜死。
旦日，令侍御史收显等送狱，于是遂定。
下诏曰：夫表功录善，古今之通义也。
故中常侍长乐太仆江京、黄门令刘安、钩盾令陈达与故车骑将军阎显兄弟谋议恶逆，倾乱天下。
中黄门孙程、王康、长乐太官丞王国？中黄门黄龙、彭恺、孟叔、李建、王成、张贤、史汎、马国、王道、李元、杨佗、陈予、赵封、李刚、魏猛、苗光等，怀忠愤发，戮力协谋，遂埽灭元恶，以定王室。
《诗》不云乎： 无言不雠，元德不报。
程为谋首，康、国协同。
translation: 
Yan Jing said: What edict?
Because he raised his knife to stab Guo Zhen, but missed, Guo Zhen hit Yan Jing with his sword and fell out of the car. The people on the left and right stabbed Yan Jing in the chest with their halberds, so they captured Yan Jing and sent him to Tingwei Prison, where he died that night.
The next morning, he ordered the imperial censor to arrest Yan Xian and others and send them to prison, and everything was settled.
The emperor issued an edict: Praising meritorious service and rewarding good deeds have the same meaning in ancient and modern times.
Jiang Jing, the former chief servant of the Central Government, Liu An, the Huangmen commander, Chen Da, the Goudun commander, and the former Chariot and Cavalry General Yan Xian brothers conspired to rebel and subvert the world.
Zhonghuangmen Sun Cheng, Wang Kang, Changle Taiguan Chengguo, Zhonghuangmen Huanglong, Peng Kai, Meng Shu, Li Jian, Wang Cheng, Zhang Xian, Shi Xun, Ma Guo, Wang Dao, Li Yuan, Yang Tuo, Chen Yu, Zhao Feng, Li Gang, Wei Meng, Miao Guang, etc., with loyalty, enthusiasm and generosity, worked together to eradicate the great evil and stabilize the royal family.
Didn't "Poetry" say: There is no unanswered word, and there is no unworthy virtue.
Sun Cheng was the mastermind, and Wang Kang and Guo Guo worked together.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其封程为浮阳侯，食邑五户；康为华容侯，国为郦侯，各九千户；黄龙为湘南侯，五千户；彭恺为西平昌侯，孟叔为中庐侯，李建为复阳侯，各四千二百户；王成为广宗侯，张贤为祝阿侯，史汎为临沮侯，马国为文平侯，王道为范县侯，李元为褒信侯，杨佗为山都侯，陈予为下侯，赵封为析县侯，李刚为枝江侯，各四千户；魏猛为夷陵侯，二千户；苗光为东阿侯，千户。
是为十九侯。
加赐车、马、金、银、钱、帛，各有差。
李闰以先不豫谋，故不封。
遂擢拜程骑都尉。
永建元年，程与张贤、孟叔、马国等为司隶校尉虞诩讼罪，怀表上殿，呵叱左右。
帝怒，遂免程官，因悉遣十九侯就国，后徙封程为宜城侯。
程既到国，怨恨恚怼，封还印绶、符策，亡归京师，往来山中。
translation: 
Now Sun Cheng is granted the title of Marquis of Fuyang, with ten thousand households in the city; Wang Kang is the Marquis of Huarong, and the kingdom is the Marquis of Li, with nine thousand households each; Huanglong is the Marquis of Southern Hunan, with five thousand households; Peng Kai is the Marquis of Xipingchang, Meng Shu is the Marquis of Zhonglu, and Li Jian is the Marquis of Fuyang, with four thousand two hundred households each; Wang becomes the Marquis of Guangzong, and Zhang Xian is the Zhu Ahou, Shi Xun is the Marquis of Linju, Ma Guo is the Marquis of Guangping, Wangdao is the Marquis of Fanxian, Li Yuan is the Marquis of Baoxin, Yang Tuo is the Marquis of Shandu, Chen Yu is the Marquis of Xiajun, Zhao Feng is the Marquis of Xixian, Li Gang is the Marquis of Zhijiang, each with 4,000 households; Wei Meng is the Marquis of Yiling, with 2,000 households; Miao Guang is the Marquis of Dong'a, with 1,000 households.
It is for the Nineteenth Marquis.
There is a difference in the amount of gold, silver, money and silk given to chariots and horses.
Li Run did not participate in the planning, so he did not seal it.
Sun Cheng was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Captain.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Sun Cheng, Zhang Xian, Meng Shu, Ma Guo and others appealed to Yu Xu, the captain of the Sili school. They went to the palace with the petition and scolded the people around him.
The emperor was angry and dismissed Sun Cheng from his official position. All the nineteen marquises he had created were sent back to their fiefdoms. Later, Sun Cheng was granted the title of Marquis of Yicheng.
After Sun Cheng arrived at the fiefdom, he was angry and resentful. He returned the seal, ribbon and talisman, fled back to the capital, and traveled to the mountains.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
诏书追求，复故爵士，赐车马衣物，遣还国。
三年，帝念程等功勋，悉征还京师。
程与王道、李元皆拜骑都尉，余悉奉朝请。
阳嘉元年，程病甚，即拜奉车都尉，位特进。
及卒，使五官中郎将追赠车骑将军印绶，赐谥刚侯。
侍御史持节监护丧事，乘舆幸北部尉传，瞻望车骑。
程临终，遗言上书，以国传弟美。
帝许之，而分程半，封程养子寿为浮阳侯。
后诏书录微功，封兴渠为高望亭侯。
四年，诏宦官养子悉听得为后，袭封爵，定著乎令。
王康、王国、彭恺、王成、赵封、魏猛六人皆早卒。
黄龙、杨佗、孟叔、李建、张贤、史汎、王道、李元，李刚九人与阿母山阳君宋娥更相货赂，求高官增邑，又诬罔中常侍曹腾、孟贲等。
永和二年，发觉，并遣就国，减祖四分之一。
宋娥夺爵归田舍。
唯马国、陈予、苗光保全封邑。
初，帝见废，监太子家小黄门籍建、傅高梵、长秋长赵熹、丞良贺、药长夏珍皆以无过获罪，建等坐徙朔方。
及帝即位，并擢为中常侍。
梵坐臧罪，减死一等。
建后封东乡侯，三百户。
translation: 
The imperial edict summoned him, restored him to his original title, gave him carriages, horses and clothing, and sent him back home.
Three years later, the emperor thought of the merits of Sun Cheng and others and sent them back to the capital.
Sun Cheng, Wang Dao, and Li Yuan were all awarded the title of Cavalry Commander, and the rest were invited by the court.
In the first year of Yangjia, Sun Cheng fell seriously ill, so he was awarded the title of Captain of Fengche, a special promotion.
After his death, he was awarded the posthumous title of Marquis Gang after his death.
The imperial censor Shi Chijie was in charge of the funeral, and the emperor went to Beibu Weichuan to visit the chariots and cavalry.
When Sun Cheng was dying, he wrote a letter in his last words and passed the feudal state to his younger brother Sun Mei.
The emperor agreed to his request, but gave Sun Cheng half of his fiefdom, and made Sun Cheng's adopted son Sun Shou the Marquis of Fuyang.
Later, an imperial edict was issued to reward minor achievements, and Xingqu was granted the title of Gaowangtinghou.
In the fourth year, the eunuch issued an edict that all adopted sons should be descendants of the eunuch, be granted titles, and write laws and regulations.
Wang Kang, Wang Guo, Peng Kai, Wang Cheng, Zhao Feng and Wei Meng all died early.
Huang Long, Yang Tuo, Meng Shu, Li Jian, Zhang Xian, Shi Xun, Wang Dao, Li Yuan, and Li Gang bribed Song E, the Lord of Yang of Amu Mountain, to seek high-ranking officials and increase their settlements, and they also falsely accused Cao Teng, Meng Ben, and others.
In the second year of Yonghe, it was discovered that they were all sent to the country and their rent was reduced by a quarter.
Song E was deprived of her title and returned to her farm.
Only Ma Guo, Chen Yu, and Miao Guang retained their fiefdoms.
At that time, the emperor was deposed. Ji Jian, Fu Gaofan, Changqiu Chang Zhao Xi, Cheng Lianghe, and Medicine Chief Xia Zhen were all found guilty of no fault, and Ji Jian and others moved to Shuofang.
When the emperor ascended the throne, they were all promoted to the rank of regular attendants.
Gao Fan committed the crime of stealing stolen goods and received a reduced death penalty.
Later, he was granted the title of Marquis of Dongxiang, with 300 households.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
贺清俭退厚，位至大长秋。
阳嘉中，诏九卿举武猛，贺独无所荐。
帝引问其故，对曰： 臣生自草茅，长于宫掖，既无知人之明，又未尝交知士类。
昔卫鞅因景监以见，有识知其不终。
今得臣举者，匪荣伊辱。
固辞之。
及卒，帝思贺忠，封其养子为都乡侯，三百户。
曹腾字季兴，沛国谯人也。
安帝时，除黄门从官。
顺帝在东官，邓太后以腾年少谨厚，使侍皇太子书，特见亲爱。
及帝即位，腾为小黄门，迁中常侍。
桓帝得立，腾与长乐太仆州辅等七人，以定策功，皆封亭侯，腾为费亭侯，迁大长秋，加位特进。
腾用事省闼三十余年，奉事四帝，未尝有过。
translation: 
Lianghe was Qing, thrifty, modest and dignified, and he was in power until Changqiu.
In Yangjiazhong, the nine ministers were ordered to recommend powerful military talents, but Liang He alone had no recommendation.
The emperor summoned him and asked him what was the reason. Lianghe replied: I was born in the countryside and grew up in the court. I neither know the wisdom of others nor make friends with intellectuals.
From then on, the avant-garde Martingale met the King of Qin because of Jingjian, and knowledgeable people knew that he would not have a good outcome.
To be recommended by a minister now is not an honor, but a disgrace.
Resolutely not to lift it.
After his death, Emperor Si Liang congratulated Zhong Zhong and granted his adopted son the title of Marquis of Duxiang, with a household of three hundred.
◆Cao Teng's biography, Cao Teng's courtesy name is Jixing, and he was a native of Qiao County, Peiguo.
During the reign of Emperor An, he was awarded Huangmen as an official.
When Emperor Shun was the crown prince, Queen Mother Deng, because Cao Teng was young and cautious, asked him to serve the crown prince while he was studying, and she was particularly dear to him.
When Emperor Shun came to the throne, Cao Teng was appointed as Xiaohuangmen and was promoted to regular attendant.
When Emperor Huan was established, seven people, including Cao Teng and Changle Taipu Zhoufu, were granted the title of Tinghou due to their merits in making decisions. Cao Teng was named Feitinghou. He was promoted to Changqiu and was given special advancement.
Cao Teng served in the palace for more than thirty years, serving the four emperors, and never made any mistakes.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
其所进达，皆海内名人，陈留虞放、边韶、南阳延固、张温、弘农张奂、颍川堂谿典等。
时蜀郡太守因计吏赂遗于腾，益州刺史种暠于斜谷关搜得其书，上奏太守，并以劾腾，请下廷尉案罪。
帝曰： 书自外来，非腾之过。
遂寝暠奏。
腾不为纤介，常称暠为能吏，时人嗟美之。
腾卒，养子嵩嗣。
种暠后为司徒，告宾客曰： 今身为公，乃曹常侍力焉。
嵩灵帝时货赂中官及输西园钱一亿万，故位至太尉。
及子操起兵，不肯相随，乃与少子疾避乱琅邪，为徐州刺史陶谦所杀。
单超，河南人；徐璜，下邳良城人；具瑗，魏郡元城人；左悺，河南平阴人；唐衡，颍川郾人也。
桓帝初，超、璜、瑗为中常侍，悺、衡为小黄门史。
初，梁冀两妹为顺、桓二帝皇后，冀代父商为大将军，再世权威，威振天下。
translation: 
Those he recommended were all domestic celebrities, such as Chen Liu, Yu Fang, Bian Shao, Nanyang Yangu, Zhang Wen, Hongnong Zhang Huan, Yingchuantang Xi Gudian, etc.
At that time, the prefect of Shu County bribed Cao Teng for planning an official. Zhongfan, the governor of Yizhou, searched the prefect's letter to Cao Teng at Xiegu Pass and reported it to the prefect of Shu County. He impeached Cao Teng and asked the imperial officer to punish him.
Emperor Huan said: It is not Cao Teng's fault that books come from outside.
There is no memorial to establish a vassal state.
Cao Teng did not take it to heart and often said that Zhongfan was a capable official. People at that time praised Cao Teng's conduct.
Cao Teng passed away and was succeeded by his adopted son Cao Song.
Later, Zhong Fan became a Situ and told his guests: Now that I am the Duke, it is Cao Chang's contribution.
When Cao Song was Emperor Ling, he bribed middle-ranking officials and lost 100 million in Xiyuan money, so he became a Taiwei.
His son Cao Cao raised an army, but Cao Song refused to join him, so he and his youngest son Cao Ji fled the chaos in Langxie and were killed by Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou.
◆Shan Chao Chuan, Shan Chao, was from Henan; Xu Huang was from Liangcheng, Xiapi; Ju Yuan was from Yuancheng, Wei County; Zuo Xiangguan was from Pingyin, Henan; Tang Heng was from Yan, Yingchuan.
In the early years of Emperor Huan's reign, Chao, Huang, and Yuan were appointed as regular servants, while Xinguan and Heng were appointed as historians of Xiaohuangmen.
At first, Liang Ji's two younger sisters were the queens of Emperor Shun and Emperor Huan. Liang Ji's father, Liang Shang, served as a general. He was authoritative and powerful in the world for two generations.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
冀自诛太尉李固、杜乔等，骄横益甚，皇后乘势忌恣，多所鸩毒，上下钳口，莫有言者。
帝逼畏久，恒怀不平，恐言泄，不敢谋之。
延熹二年，皇后崩，帝因如厕，独呼衡问： 左右与外舍不相得者皆谁乎？
衡对曰： 单超、左悺前诣河南尹不疑，礼敬小简，不疑收其兄弟送洛阳狱，二人诣门谢，乃得解。
徐璜、具瑗常私忿疾外舍放横，口不敢道。
于是帝呼超、悺入室，谓曰： 梁将军兄弟专固国朝，迫胁外内，公卿以下从其风旨。今欲诛之，于常侍意何如？
超等对曰： 诚国奸贼，当诛日久。
臣等弱劣，未知圣意何如耳。
帝曰： 审然者，常侍密图之。
对曰： 图之不难，但恐陛下复中狐疑。
帝曰： 奸臣胁国，当伏其罪，何疑乎！
于是更召璜、瑗等五人，遂定其议，帝啮超臂出血为盟，于是超收冀及宗亲党与悉诛之。
悺、衡迁中常侍。封超新丰侯，二万户，璜武原侯，瑗东武阳侯，各万五千户，赐钱各千五百万；悺上蔡侯，衡汝阳侯，各万三千户，赐钱各千三百万。
translation: 
Liang Ji became even more proud and tyrannical after he killed Taiwei Li Gu and Du Qiao. The queen also took advantage of the situation to become jealous and unruly, and poisoned many people in the palace, and no one above or below dared to speak.
The emperor was forced to be afraid and often harbored injustices. He was afraid that the incident would be leaked and did not dare to plan and deal with them.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, the queen passed away. The emperor took advantage of the opportunity to go to the toilet and called Tang Heng alone and asked: Who among the people around him is not good to the queen's family?
Tang Heng replied: Shan Chao and Zuo Xianguan went to Yin Bujie in Henan Province before. They didn't give many gifts. Busuo arrested their brothers and sent them to Luoyang Prison. They went to him to admit their mistakes, so they were not punished.
Xu Huang and Ju Yuan often hated the Queen's family for being violent, but they dared not speak out.
So the emperor called Shan Chao and Zuo Xuanguan to his room and said: General Liang and his brothers have monopolized the court, oppressing and threatening both internal and external affairs. Everyone from the minister to the minister is following them. Now I want to kill them. What does Chang Shi mean?
Shan Chao and others replied: He is truly a traitor to the country and should have been killed long ago.
We are cowardly and incompetent, we just don’t know what the emperor wants.
The emperor said: "Since this is the case, Chang Shi will do it secretly."
He replied: It is not difficult to carry out, but I am afraid that the emperor will be suspicious again.
The emperor said: A traitor who threatens the country should be punished. Why should he hesitate?
So Xu Huang, Ju Yuan and other five people were summoned and they decided to kill the Liang family. The emperor bites the single super arm and bleeds as an alliance. So an edict was issued to arrest Liang Ji and other members of the clan and kill them all.
Zuo Xingguan and Tang Heng were promoted to regular servants, and they were entrusted with Chaoxin Fenghou, with 20,000 households. Xu Huang, Wuyuanhou, and Gu Yuandong, Wuyanghou, each had 15,000 households, and were given 15,000,000 yuan each. Zuo Xingguan, Shang Caihou, and Tang Heng, Ruyang Hou, each had 13,000 households, and were given 13,000,000 yuan each.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
五人同日封，故世谓之 五侯 。
又封小黄门刘普、赵忠等八人为乡侯。
自是权归宦官，朝廷日乱矣。
超病，帝遣使者就拜车骑将军。
明年薨，赐东园秘器，棺中玉具，赠侯将军印绶，使者理丧。
及葬，发五营骑士，侍御史护丧，将作大匠起冢茔。
其后四侯转横，天下为之语曰： 左回天，具独坐，徐卧虎，唐两墯。
皆竞起第宅，楼观壮丽，穷极伎巧。
金银罽耳毛，施于犬马。
多取良人美女以为姬妾，皆珍饰华侈，拟则宫人，其仆从皆乘牛车而从列骑。
又养其疏属，或乞嗣异姓，或买苍头为子，并以传国袭封。
兄弟姻戚皆宰州临郡，辜较百姓，与盗贼无异。
超弟安为河东太守，弟子匡为济阴太守，璜弟盛为河内太守，悺弟敏为陈留太守，瑗兄恭为沛相，皆为所在蠹害。
translation: 
Five people were granted the same title on the same day, so they were called "Five Marquises" at that time.
Liu Pu, Zhao Zhong and other eight people from Xiaohuangmen were also granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.
From then on, power returned to the eunuchs, and the court became more chaotic day by day.
Shan Chao fell ill, and the emperor sent an envoy to confer him the title of Chariot and Cavalry General.
When he died in the second year, he was given a coffin, jade utensils in the coffin, the seal and ribbon of the general, and envoys conducted funeral arrangements.
During the burial, five battalions of knights and imperial censors were sent to protect the funeral car, and master craftsmen were appointed to build the tomb.
Later, the four princes became violent and popular in the world: Zuo Huitian, Gu sitting alone, Xu Crouching Tiger, Tang Lianglai.
They are all vying to build houses with magnificent buildings and exquisite skills.
Gold and silver woolen fabrics decorate Malaysia.
He also took many good men and beautiful women as his concubines, and they all dressed up luxuriously and luxuriously, like palace people. Their servants were all on chariots and horses, and they were accompanied by cavalry.
They also raised their relatives, some even asked for heirs with different surnames, and some bought slaves as sons, who could pass on the country and receive titles.
Brothers in law and relatives are all state and county officials. They deprive the people and are no different from thieves.
Shan Chao's younger brother Shan An was the prefect of Hedong, his younger brother's son Shan Kuang was the prefect of Jiyin, Xu Huang's brother Xu Sheng was the prefect of Hanoi, Zuo Xuan's brother Zuo Min was the prefect of Chenliu, and Ju Yuan's brother Gu Gong was the prime minister of Pei. They were all local pests.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
璜兄子宣为下邳令，暴虐尤甚。
先是，求故汝南太守下邳李暠女不能得，及到县，遂将吏卒至暠家，载其女归，戏射杀之，埋著寺内。
时，下邳县属东海，汝南黄浮为东海相，有告言宣者，浮乃收宣家属，无少长悉考之。
掾史以下固谏争。浮曰： 徐宣国贼，今日杀之，明日坐死，足以瞑目矣。
即案宣罪弃市，暴其尸以示百姓，郡中震栗。
璜于是诉怨于帝，帝大怒，浮坐髡钳，输作右校。
五侯宗族宾客虐遍天下，民不堪命，起为寇贼。
七年，衡卒，亦赠车骑将军，如超故事。
璜卒，赙赠钱布，赐冢茔地。
明年，司隶校尉韩演因奏悺罪恶，及其兄太仆南乡侯称请托州郡，聚敛为奸，宾客放纵，侵犯吏民。
悺、称皆自杀。
translation: 
Xu Huang's brother Xu Wangxuan was appointed as the commander of Piling, and he was particularly cruel.
I first asked the former Runan governor to go to Pi to get Li Fan's daughter, but when he arrived in the county, he sent officials to Li Fan's house, took the girl back in a car, shot her to death as a joke, and buried her in the official residence.
At that time, Xiapi County belonged to the East China Sea, and Huang Fu of Runan was the Prime Minister of the East China Sea. Someone reported on Xu Wangxuan's affairs, so Huang Fu arrested Xu Wangxuan's family members, and tortured and interrogated them, old and young.
The following officials tried their best to dissuade Huang Fu, but Huang Fu said: "King Xu is a traitor to the country. Kill him today, and he will be punished and die tomorrow. You can close your eyes."
According to Xu Wangxuan's crime, he abandoned the market and exposed his body to the people. The county was shocked and frightened.
Xu Huang then complained to the emperor, and the emperor was furious. He shaved off his yellow hair, tied his neck with an iron ring, and sent him to the right school for a labor camp.
The guests of the Wuhou clan harmed the world, and the people could not survive and were forced to become bandits.
Seven years later, when Tang Heng died, he also gave the chariot and cavalry general as a gift, just like Shan Chao.
When Xu Huang died, he was given money and cloth for funeral rites and a place for his tomb.
In the second year, Han Yan, the lieutenant of the Sili School, committed the crime of serving as an official of Zuo Xian. He and his elder brother Nanxiang Houcheng invited the prefecture and county to build relationships, gathered people into traitors, indulged the guests, and harmed the officials and the people.
Zuo Xuanguan and Zuo Cheng both committed suicide.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
演又奏瑗兄沛相恭臧罪，征诣廷尉。
瑗诣狱谢，上还东武侯印绶，诏贬为都乡侯，卒于家。
超及璜、衡袭封者，并降为乡侯，租入岁皆三百万，子弟分封者，悉夺爵土。
刘普等贬为关内侯。
侯览者，山阳防东人。
桓帝初为中常侍，以佞猾进，倚势贪放，受纳货遗以巨万计。
延熹中，连岁征伐，府帑空虚，乃假百官奉禄，王侯租锐。
览亦上缣五千匹，赐爵关内侯。
又托以与议诛梁冀功，进封高乡侯。
小黄门段珪家在济阴，与览并立田业，近济北界，仆从宾客侵犯百姓，劫掠行旅。济北相滕延一切收捕，杀数十人，陈尸路衢。
览、珪大怨，以事诉帝，延坐多杀无辜，征诣廷尉，免。
延字伯行，北海人，后为京兆尹，有理名，世称为长者。
translation: 
Han Yan also reported that Ju Yuan's elder brother Peixiang Jugong was embezzling and was recruited to Tingwei.
Ju Yuan went to Tingwei Prison to plead guilty, and returned the seal of Dongwu Marquis. He was demoted to Duxiang Marquis and died at home.
Those who were enfeoffed by Shan Chao, Xu Huang, and Tang Heng were all demoted to the rank of rural marquis, and rented a capital of three million yuan per year. Those who were enfeoffed by their children were deprived of their nobility.
Liu Pu and others were demoted to the rank of Marquis of Guannei.
◆Hou Lanzhuan, Hou Lan, Shanyang Fangdongren.
In the early years of Emperor Huan, he served as a regular attendant. He was good at flattery and cunning, and gained Emperor Huan's favor and trust. Relying on power and being corrupt, he accepted bribes worth tens of thousands of dollars.
During the Yanxi period, the country was empty due to successive conquests and troops, so it borrowed the salaries of hundreds of officials and the taxes of princes.
Hou Lan also brought out five thousand pieces of silk and awarded him the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He also made excuses and discussed the merits of killing Liang and Ji, and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoxiang by the Jin Dynasty.
The family of Wang Gui, Duan of Xiaohuangmen, lived in Jiyin. Together with Marquis Landu, they bought land, close to the border of Jibei. Their servants and guests harassed the people and robbed their travellers. Teng Yan, the prime minister of Jibei, arrested them all, killed dozens of people, and left their bodies on the road.
Hou Lan and Duan Wanggui were extremely resentful and told the emperor about this. Teng Yan was not guilty of multiple killings and was conscripted into Tingwei, removing him from the post of Prime Minister of Jibei.
Teng Yan, named Bo Xing, was a native of Beihai, later known as Jing Zhaoyin. He had a good reputation for good governance, and people called him an elder.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
览等得此愈放纵。
览兄参为益州刺史，民有丰富者，辄诬以大逆，皆诛灭之，没入财物，前后累亿计。
太尉杨秉奏参，槛车征，于道自杀。
京兆尹袁逢于旅舍，阅参车三百余两，皆金银锦帛珍玩，不可胜数。
览坐免，旋复复官。
建宁二年，丧母还家，大起茔冢。
督邮张俭因举奏览贪侈奢纵，前后请夺人宅三百八十一所，田百一十八顷。
起立第宅十有六区，皆有高楼池苑，堂阁相望，饰以绮画丹漆之属，制度重深，僭类宫省。
又豫作寿冢，石椁双阙，高庑百尺，破人居室，发掘坟墓。
虏夺良人，妻略妇子，及诸罪衅，请诛之。
而览伺候遮截，章竟不上。
俭遂破览冢宅，藉没资财，具言罪状。
又奏览母生时交通宾客，干乱郡国。复不得御。
览遂诬俭为钩党，及故长乐少府李膺、太仆杜密等，皆夷灭之。
translation: 
Hou Lan and others became even more indulgent and acted recklessly.
Hou Lan's elder brother Hou Shen was appointed as the governor of Yizhou. The wealthy people often falsely accused him of treason and treason, so they all killed him and confiscated his property, which totaled hundreds of millions.
Taiwei Yang Bingzhuo Hou Shen was recruited in a prison car and committed suicide on the road.
Jingzhao Yin Yuan Feng saw Hou Shen's more than 300 cars at the hotel, all of which contained countless treasures of gold, silver, brocade and silk.
Hou Lan was dismissed from office for his crime, but was reinstated not long after.
In the second year of Jianning, when his mother passed away, he returned home and opened a grave.
Superintendent Zhang Jian reported to Hou Lan that he was corrupt and extravagant and did everything. He took away 381 houses and 118 hectares of land.
There are six out of ten districts in the building, all with high buildings, pools and gardens, facing each other, decorated with exquisite paintings, and a complex system, similar to a palace.
He also made a tomb for strangers in advance, with a double stone coffin and a building next to the hall, which was a hundred feet high. He destroyed other people's houses and excavated other people's tombs.
If you kidnap your beloved, rob women, and commit all kinds of crimes, please kill him immediately.
Hou Lan inquired about the news and blocked Zhang Jian's memorial.
Zhang Jian broke into Hou Lan's tomb, confiscated his property, and exposed Hou Lan's crimes.
He also reported that Hou Lan's mother was visiting guests during her lifetime and causing chaos in the county, so she was not allowed to enter the palace.
Hou Lan then falsely accused Zhang Jian of being a gangster, and killed him together with Li Ying, the former Changle Shaofu, and his servant Du Mi.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
遂代曹节领长乐太仆。
熹平元年，有司举奏览专权骄奢，策收印绶，自杀。阿党者皆免。
曹节字汉丰，南阳新野人也。
其本魏郡人，世吏二千石。
顺帝初，以西园骑迁小黄门。
桓帝时，迁中常侍，奉车都尉。
建宁元年，持节将中黄门虎贲羽林千人，北迎灵帝，陪乘入宫。
及即位，以定策封长安乡侯，六百户。
时，窦太后临朝，后父大将军武与太傅陈蕃谋诛中官，节与长乐五官史朱瑀、从官史共普、张亮、中黄门王尊、长乐谒者腾是等十七人，共矫诏以长乐食监王甫为黄门令，将兵诛武、蕃等，事已具《蕃》、《武传》。
节迁长乐卫尉，封育阳侯，增邑三千户；甫迁中常侍，黄门令如故；瑀封都乡侯，千五百户；普、亮等五人各三百户；余十一人皆为关内侯，岁食租二千斛。
先是，瑀等阴于明堂中祷皇天曰： 窦氏无道，请皇天辅皇帝诛之，令事必成，天下得宁。
既诛武等，诏令太官给塞具，赐瑀钱五千万，余各有差，后更封华容侯。
二年，节病困，诏拜为车骑将军。
有顷疾瘳，上印绶，罢，复为中常侍，位特进，秩中二千石，寻转大长秋。
熹平元年，窦太后崩，有何人书朱雀阙，言 天下大乱，曹节、王甫幽杀太后，常侍侯览多杀党人，公卿皆尸禄，无有忠言者。
于是诏司隶校尉刘猛逐捕，十日一会。
translation: 
Because Cao Jie led the servant of Changle.
In the first year of Xiping, officials complained to Hou Lan about his power, arrogance and extravagance, and ordered him to take away his seal and ribbon. Hou Lan committed suicide and all his colleagues were dismissed from their official positions.
◆Cao Jie's biography, Cao Jie's courtesy name is Hanfeng, a new savage from Nanyang.
He was originally from Weijun, and his family had two thousand shi from generation to generation.
In the early years of Emperor Shun's reign, Yixiyuanqi was promoted to Xiaohuangmen.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he was promoted to regular attendant and served as captain of chariot.
In the first year of Jianning, the general Zhijie led thousands of soldiers from Huangmen to the Yulin to welcome Emperor Ling from the north and accompanied Emperor Ling's chariot into the palace.
Emperor Ling ascended the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an Township and six hundred households due to his merits in making policies.
At this time, the Empress Dowager Dou came to power. The Empress Dowager's father, General Dou Wu, and the Grand Tutor Chen Fan discussed the execution of the eunuchs. Cao Jie, along with Changle Wuguan Shi Zhu Wangyu, Congguan Shi Gongpu, Zhang Liang, Zhonghuangmen Wang Zun, Changle Ye Zhe Tengshi and other seventeen people jointly pretended to be the emperor's edict and appointed Wang Fu, Changle Food Supervisor, as the Huangmen Order, and led troops to kill Dou Wu, Chen Fan and others. The matter has been recorded in "Chen Fan" and "Dou Wu".
Cao Jie was promoted to Changle Weiwei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Yuyang, adding 3,000 households to the city; Wang Fu was promoted to a regular servant, and was still the Huangmen Order; King Zhu Yu was granted the title of Duxiang Marquis, with 1,500 households; Gong Pu, Zhang Liang and other five people each had 300 households; the remaining 11 people were all Guannei Marquis, with an annual food rent of 2,000 dendrobium.
At that time, Zhu Wangyu and others secretly prayed to Huangtian in the Mingtang and said: Dou is an immoral man. Please help Huangtian to kill him. Good things will happen and the world will be peaceful.
After Dou Wu and others were executed, he ordered the eunuchs to give him ancestral tools and gave Zhu Wangyu 50 million yuan. The rest of them had different differences, and later they were granted the title of Marquis of Huarong.
In the second year, Cao Jie fell seriously ill and was ordered to serve as a general of chariots and cavalry.
It didn't take long for him to recover from his illness. He was given the seal and ribbon, and then he became a regular servant again. He was promoted to a special rank and was awarded two thousand stones. Soon he was promoted to Changqiu.
In the first year of Xiping, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. I don't know who wrote in Zhuque Que: The world was in chaos. Cao Jie and Wang Fuyou killed the empress dowager. Chang Shi Hou Landuo killed party members. The ministers were all people who had nothing to do with their bodies and had no loyal words.
So he ordered Commander Liu Meng to arrest them one by one and report them every ten days.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
猛以诽书言直，不肯急捕，月余，主名不立。
猛坐左转谏议大夫，以御史中丞段颎代猛，乃四出逐捕，及太学游生，系者千余人。
节等恕猛不已，使颎以他事奏猛，抵罪输左校。
朝臣多以为言，乃免刑，复公车征之。
节遂与王甫等诬奏桓帝弟勃海王悝谋反，诛之。
以功封者十二人。
甫封冠军侯。
节亦增邑四千六百户，并前七千六百户。
父兄子弟皆为公卿列校、牧守令长，布满天下。
节弟破石为越骑校尉，越骑营五百妻有美色，破石从求之，五百不敢违，妻执意不肯行，遂自杀。
其淫暴无道，多此类也。
光和二年，司隶校尉阳球奏诛王甫及子长乐少府萌、沛相吉，皆死狱中。
时连有灾异，郎中梁人审忠以为朱瑀等罪恶所感，乃上书曰：臣闻理国得贤则安，失贤则危，故舜有臣五人而天下理，汤举伊尹不仁者远。
陛下即位之初，未能万机，皇太后念在抚育，权时摄政，故中常侍苏康、管霸应时诛殄。
太傅陈蕃、大将军窦武考其党与，志清朝政。
华容侯朱瑀知事觉露，祸及其身，遂兴造逆谋，作乱王室，撞蹋省闼，执夺玺绶，迫胁陛下，聚会群臣，离间骨肉母子之恩，遂诛蕃、武及尹勋等。
translation: 
Liu Meng believed that the slanderous letter was honest and refused to rush to arrest him. For more than a month, the main culprit was not caught.
Liu Meng was convicted and demoted to the position of admonishment official, and he was replaced by Yushi Zhongcheng Duan. So he searched everywhere and arrested more than a thousand people including Taixue wanderers.
Cao Jie and others resented Liu Meng, so they sent Duan to do other things to punish Liu Meng, so as to offend Liu Meng and send him to the left school labor camp.
Many people in the court spoke up for him, so he was exempted from punishment and was recruited in a public car.
Cao Jie, together with Wang Fu and others, falsely accused Emperor Huan's brother Bohai Wang Kui of treason, and Liu Kui was executed.
Twelve people were sealed for their merit.
Wang Fu was awarded the title of Champion Hou.
Cao Jie also added 4,600 households to the city, adding a total of 7,600 households to the previous ones.
Their father, brother and children are all public ministers, ministers, pastors and commanders, and they are all over the world.
Cao Jie's younger brother Cao Poshi was the captain of the Yueqi camp. Wubai had a beautiful wife in the Yueqi camp. Cao Poshi proposed to Wubai, but Wubai did not dare to disobey him. His wife refused and committed suicide.
His fornication and immorality are mostly like this.
In the second year of Guanghe's reign, Wei Yangqiu, the commander of the Sili School, executed Wang Fu and his sons, Wang Meng, the Shaofu of Changle, and Wang Ji, the Prime Minister of Pei. They all died in prison.
There were often disasters at this time, and the doctor Liang Zhong believed that it was caused by the sins of Zhu Wangyu and others, and wrote a letter saying: I heard that when a country is governed by virtuous people, it will be safe, but if it loses virtuous people, it will be in danger. Therefore, Shun had five ministers and the world was peaceful, and Tang Wu used Yi Yin, so bad guys could not enter.
When the emperor came to the throne, he could not take care of everything. The empress dowager thought that you still needed to be taken care of, so she temporarily acted as a political agent. Su Kang and Guan Ba ​​were often killed in the front and middle.
Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu scrutinized their party members and determined to clean up the politics of the court.
Zhu Wangyu, the Marquis of Huarong, knew that a disaster would be imminent if the incident broke out, so he launched a rebellion, disrupted the royal family, trampled the palace, snatched seals and ribbons, forced and threatened the emperor, gathered ministers, alienated the relationship between mother and son, and killed Chen Fan, Dou Wu, Yin Xun and others.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
因共割裂城社，自相封赏。
父子兄弟被蒙尊荣，素所亲厚布在州郡，或登九列，或据三司。
不惟禄重位尊之责，而苟营私门，多蓄财货，缮修第舍，连里竟巷。
盗取御水以作鱼钓，车马服玩拟于天家。
群公卿士杜口吞声，莫敢有言。
州牧郡守承顺风旨，辟召选举，释贤取愚。
故虫蝗为之生，夷寇为之起。天意愤盈，积十余年。
故频岁日食于上，地震于下，所以谴戒人主，欲令觉悟，诛鉏无状。
昔高宗以雉雊之变，故获中兴之功。
近者神祇启悟陛下，发赫斯之怒，故王甫父子应时馘截，路人士女莫不称善，若除父母之仇。
诚怪陛下复忍孽臣之类，不悉殄灭。
昔秦信赵高，以危其国；吴使刑人，身遘其祸。
translation: 
Therefore, they jointly divide the country and reward themselves.
Fathers, sons, and brothers all enjoy honors, and people who are usually close to each other are scattered across the prefectures and counties, some occupying the ninth rank, and some occupying the third division.
He does not want to pay attention to his position and responsibilities, but only wants to engage in personal fraud, accumulate more wealth, build houses, and fill alleys.
He stole the water in the palace and used it for fishing, chariots, horses, clothing and playthings to compare with the emperor.
All the officials and ministers kept their mouths shut and did not dare to say a word.
The state, animal husbandry and county governors followed their will and recruited and elected them. They rejected the talented people and promoted those who were ignorant.
Therefore, locusts broke out and the barbarians were in chaos. God's will is full of resentment, which has accumulated for more than ten years.
Therefore, there are solar eclipses above and earthquakes below for consecutive years. This is a warning to the master, hoping that the master will wake up and kill the bad guys.
In the past, Emperor Gaozong cultivated virtue and revived the Shang Dynasty due to the mutation of the pheasant rising to the level of the tripod's ear.
Recently the gods enlightened the emperor and made him furious. Wang Fu and his son were killed in time, and everyone on the road, regardless of gender, clapped and cheered, as if they had avenged their parents.
But it is strange that the emperor tolerates the evil officials and does not eliminate them all.
In the past, Qin Xin and Zhao Gao caused the country to fall, and Wu appointed him as a torturer, but he was killed by the torturer.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
虞公抱宝牵马，鲁昭见逐乾侯，以不用宫之奇、子家驹以至灭辱。
今以不忍之恩，赦夷族之罪，奸谋一成，悔亦何及！
臣为郎十五年，皆耳目闻见，瑀之所为，诚皇后所不复赦。
愿陛下留漏刻之听，裁省臣表，埽灭丑类，以答天怒。
与瑀考验，有不如言，愿受汤镬之诛，妻子并徙，以绝妄言之路。
章寝不报。
节遂领尚书令。
四年，卒，赠车骑将军。
后瑀亦病卒，皆养子传国。
审忠字公诚，宦官诛后，辟公府。
吕强字汉盛，河南成皋人也。
少以宦者为小黄门，再迁中常侍。
为人清忠奉公。
愿陛下详思臣言，不以记过见玼为责。
translation: 
Duke Yu held the treasure and led the horse, and Lu Zhao was expelled from Qianhou. They both perished and were humiliated because they did not listen to Gong Ziqi and Zi Jiaju.
Now, with the unbearable kindness, I am pardoning the heinous crime of the Yi people. Once the evil plan is completed, it is too late to regret!
I have been a man for fifteen years, and I have heard and seen what Zhu Wangyu did, which the emperor and heaven can no longer forgive.
May your Majesty spare a little time to look at my list and wipe out the ugly ones to answer the wrath of God.
When questioning Zhu Wangyu, if there are any untruthful words, he is willing to be killed and his wife to move with him to stop the way of speaking nonsense.
The memorial was suppressed.
Cao Jie also served as minister of law.
Four years later, he died and was presented to the general of chariots and cavalry.
Later, Zhu Wangyu also died of illness, and both adopted sons to pass on the country.
Shen Zhong was named Gongcheng, and after being killed by the eunuchs, he was summoned to the palace.
◆Biography of Lu Qiang, whose courtesy name was Han Sheng and a native of Chenggao, Henan.
When he was young, he served as an eunuch as a small Huangmen, and then he was promoted to a regular attendant.
He is honest, loyal, and law-abiding.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he was granted the title of eunuch in accordance with the regulations, and Lu Qiang was granted the title of Duxiang Marquis. Lu Qiang's words were sincere and he refused to accept them, so Emperor Ling had no choice but to obey him.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
书奏不省。中平元年，黄巾贼起，帝问强所宜施行。
强欲先诛左右贪浊者，大赦党人，料简刺史、二千石能否。
帝纳之，乃先赦党人。
于是诸常侍人人求退，又各自征还宗亲子弟在州郡者。
中常侍赵忠、夏恽等遂共构强，云 与党人共议朝廷，数读《霍光传》。
强兄弟所在并皆贪秽 。
帝不悦，使中黄门持兵召强。
强闻帝召，怒曰： 吾死，乱起矣。
丈夫欲尽忠国家，岂能对狱吏乎！
遂自杀。
忠、恽复谮曰： 强见召未知所问，而就处草自屏，有奸明审。
translation: 
At that time, Emperor Ling accumulated a lot of private wealth and collected treasures from the world. The contribution of the county and the country had to be paid to the internal affairs department first, which was called "guide fee". In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits were causing trouble. Emperor Ling asked Lu Qiang what to do.
Lu Qiang's opinion was to first kill the corrupt elements around the emperor, grant amnesty to party members, and examine the merits of the governor and Erqianshi.
Emperor Ling accepted it. So he first granted amnesty to the party members.
In this way, the various ministers resigned from the court at everyone's request, and each recalled their relatives and children in the prefectures and counties.
Zhao Zhong, Xia Yun and others jointly framed Lu Qiang, saying: Lu Qiang discussed the court with party members, often read "Huo Guang Zhuan", and wanted to depose the emperor and establish another emperor.
Wherever the Lu Qiang brothers were, there was corruption and perversion of the law.
The emperor was unhappy and sent Zhonghuangmen to summon Lu Qiang with weapons.
When Lu Qiang heard that the emperor called him, he said angrily: If I die, the country will be in chaos!
How can a doctor, who is loyal to the country, obey the jailer's instructions?
Just commit suicide.
Zhao Zhong and Xia Yun also framed him and said: Lu Qiang was summoned by the emperor for questioning. He didn't know what to ask, but committed suicide in the weeds outside. It was obvious that he had a conspiracy.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
遂收捕宗亲，没入财产焉。时，宦者济阴丁肃、下邳徐衍、南阳郭耽、汝阳李巡、北海赵祐等五人称为清忠，皆在里巷，不争威权。巡以为诸博士试甲乙科，争弟高下，更相告言，至有行赂定兰台漆书经字，以合其私文者，乃白帝，与诸儒共刻《五经》文于石，于是诏蔡邕等正其文字。
自后《五经》一定，争者用息。
赵祐博学多览，著作校书，诸儒称之。
又小黄门甘陵吴伉，善为风角，博达有奉公称。
知不得用，常托病还寺舍，从容养志云。
张让者，颎川人；赵忠者，安平人也。
少皆给事者中，桓帝时为小黄门。
忠以与诛梁冀功封都乡侯。
延熹八年，黜为关内侯，食本县租千斛。
灵帝时，让、忠并迁中常侍，封列侯，与曹节、王甫等相为表里。
节死后，忠领大长秋。
translation: 
At that time, the eunuchs Jiyin Dingsu, Xiapi Xuyan, Nanyang Guo Dan, Ruyang Li Xun, Beihai Zhao and other five people named Qingzhong were all in the alleys, not fighting for power. Li Xun thought that the doctors were taking exams for subjects A and B. The superiors and inferiors talked to each other, and one even offered bribes to change the characters of the Lantai lacquer script to suit his article. So he told the emperor that he and other Confucian scholars would carve the "Five Classics" on the stone, and ordered Cai Yong and others to correct the characters.
Since then, the Five Classics have been affirmed, and the debate has ceased.
Zhao was erudite, read a lot, wrote and revised books, and was praised by all Confucian scholars.
Also, the Wu couple in Ganling, Xiaohuangmen, wait for the wind in all directions to predict good and bad luck. They are broad-minded and have a reputation of being law-abiding.
Knowing that he would not be appointed, he often returned to his dormitory due to illness and calmly cultivated his ambitions.
◆Zhang Rangzhuan, Zhang Rang was from Yingchuan County; Zhao Zhong was from Anping.
When he was young, he worked in the palace, and Emperor Huan served as the Xiaohuangmen.
Zhao Zhong was granted the title of Marquis of the capital for his participation in the execution of Liang Ji.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, he was deposed as Marquis of Guannei and rented thousands of dendrobium from the county.
During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Rang and Zhao Zhong were promoted to the rank of Zhongchangshi and were granted the title of lord. He is in harmony with Cao Jie, Wang Fu and others both internally and externally.
After Cao Jie's death, Zhao Zhong concurrently took charge of Changqiu.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
让有监奴典任家事，交通货赂，威形喧赫。
扶风人孟佗，资产饶赡，与奴朋结，倾谒馈问，无所遗爱。奴咸德之，问佗曰： 君何所欲？
力能办也。 曰： 吾望汝曹为我一拜耳。
时宾客求谒让者，车恒数百千两，佗时指让，后至，不得进，监奴乃率诸仓头迎拜于路，遂共轝车入门。
宾客咸惊，谓佗善于让，皆争以珍玩赂之。
佗分以遗让，让大喜，遂以佗为凉州刺史。
是时，让、忠及夏恽、郭胜、孙璋、毕岚、栗嵩、段珪、高望、张恭、韩悝、宋典十二人，皆为中常侍，封侯贵宠，父兄子弟布列州郡，所在贪贱，为人蠹害。
黄巾既作，盗贼糜沸，郎中中山张钧上书曰： 窃惟张角所以能兴兵作乱，万人所以乐附之者，其源皆由十常侍多放父兄、子弟、婚亲、宾客典据州郡，辜榷财利，侵掠百姓，百姓之冤无所告诉，故谋议不轨，聚为盗贼。
translation: 
Zhang Rang had slaves in charge of housework, colluded with powerful people, accepted bribes, and gained great prestige.
Meng Tuo, a native of Fufeng, had a wealthy family. He became friends with Zhang Rang's slaves and gave all he had to the slaves, leaving nothing he loved.
The prison slave was grateful to him and asked Meng Tuo: "What do you want?"
I can do it for you. Meng Tuo said: I just want you to bow to me. At that time, guests requesting to see Zhang Rang often had hundreds or thousands of cars parked at the door. Meng Tuo also went to see Zhang Rang at that time, but because he arrived later and could not go in, the prison slaves led their slaves to greet Meng Tuo on the road, and together they carried his cart through the door.
The guests were greatly surprised, thinking that Meng Tuo and Zhang Rang were very close friends, and they all tried to bribe him with treasures and curiosities.
Meng Tuo gave some to Zhang Rang, who was overjoyed and made Meng Tuo the governor of Liangzhou.
At this time, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Xia Yun, Guo Sheng, Sun Zhang, Bi Lan, Li Song, Duan Wanggui, Gao Wang, Zhang Gong, Han Kui, and Song Dian were all appointed as regular servants, and were granted the title of marquis. Their fathers, sons, and brothers served as officials in various prefectures and counties. They were corrupt and cruel, and were a scourge to the people.
The Yellow Turbans create chaos, and thieves are like boiling porridge. Zhang Jun, a doctor in Zhongshan, wrote a letter saying: I think the reason why Zhang Jiao was able to raise armies and cause chaos, and thousands of people were willing to follow him, was because he sent their fathers, brothers, children, relatives, and guests to various states and counties to monopolize wealth and plunder the people. The people had nowhere to redress their grievances, so they plotted evil and gathered together to become thieves.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
宜斩十常侍，县头南郊，以谢百姓，又遣使者布告天下，可不须师旅，而大寇自消。
天子以钧章示让等，皆免冠徒跣顿首，乞自致洛阳诏狱，并出家财以助军费。
有诏皆冠履视事如故。
帝怒钧曰： 此真狂子也。
十常侍固当有一人善者不？
钧复重上，犹如前章，辄寝不报。
诏使廷尉、侍御史考为张角道者，御史承让等旨，遂诬奏钧学黄巾道，收掠死狱中。
而让等实多与张角交通。
后中常侍封谞、徐奉事独发觉坐诛，帝因怒诘让等曰： 汝曹常言党人欲为不轨，皆令禁锢，或有伏诛。今党人更为国用，汝曹反与张角通，为可斩未？
皆叩头云： 故中常侍王甫、侯览所为。
帝乃止。
明年，南宫灾。
让、忠等说帝令敛天下田亩税十钱，以修宫室。
发太原、河东、狄道诸郡材木及文石，每州郡部送至京师，黄门常侍辄令谴呵不中者，因强折贱买，十分雇一，因复货之于宦官，复不为即受，材木遂至腐积，宫室连年不成。
translation: 
The ten permanent servants should be killed and their heads hung in the southern suburbs to apologize to the people. Then send envoys to inform the world, so that there is no need to use troops, and the big bandits will disappear on their own.
The emperor showed Zhang Jun's memorial to Zhang Rang and others. They all took off their hats and boots, kowtowed to plead guilty, begged to be sent to Luoyang Prison, and used their family wealth to support the military.
The emperor ordered them all to put on their hats and boots and work as before.
The emperor was angry at Zhang Jun and said: You are really a madman!
Isn't there a good one among the ten regular attendants?
Zhang Jun wrote another letter, which was still the same as the last memorial. But they were always detained and refused to report.
The emperor ordered the imperial eunuchs and censors to investigate those who engaged in Zhangjiao's Taiping Dao. The censors, adhering to the wishes of Zhang Rang and others, falsely accused Zhang Jun of learning the Yellow Turban Dao, arrested him, tortured him, and died in prison.
However, Zhang Rang and others colluded with Zhang Jiao.
Later, Zhongchang Shifeng and Xu Feng's collusion with the Yellow Turbans was exposed and killed. The emperor became angry and asked Zhang Rang and others: You often say that the party members are plotting evil, and you order to imprison and kill some of them. Now that the party members have become useful talents in the country, you have an affair with Zhang Jiao. Can you kill him or not?
Zhang Rang and others all kowtowed and said, "This was done by Wang Fu and Hou Lan, who were often at the front and center."
The emperor did not pursue it.
The next year, Nangong suffered a fire.
Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong and others persuaded the emperor to collect land tax of ten yuan per mu from all over the world and use it to build palaces.
Timbers and patterned stones from Taiyuan, Hedong, and Didao counties were recruited. Whenever the prefectures and counties sent these things to the capital, Huangmen Changshi always ordered to reprimand those who failed to deliver the wood and stone. They also forcibly discounted the price and bought it at a low price. They only paid one cent in ten and sold it to the eunuch. The eunuch did not accept it immediately. As a result, the wood piled up and rotted, and the palace could not be repaired year after year.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
刺史、太守复增私调，百姓呼嗟。
凡诏所征求，皆令西园驺密约敕，号曰 中使 ，恐动州郡，多受赇赂。
刺史、二千石及茂才孝廉迁除，皆责助军修宫钱，大郡至二三千万，余各有差。
当之官者，皆先至西园谐价，然后得去。
有钱不毕者，或至自杀。
其守清者，乞不之官，皆迫遣之。
时，钜鹿太守河内司马直新除，以有清名，减责三百万。
直被诏，帐然曰： 为民父母，而反割剥百姓，以称时求，吾不忍也。
辞疾，不听，行至孟津，上书极陈当世之失，古今祸败之戒，即吞药自杀。
书奏，帝为暂绝修宫钱。
又造万金堂于西园，引司农金钱缯帛，仞积其中。
又还河间买田宅，起第观。
帝本侯家，宿贫，每叹桓帝不能作家居，故聚为私臧，复寄小黄门常侍钱各数千万。
常云： 张常侍是我公，赵常侍是我母。
宦者得志，无所惮畏，并起第宅，拟则宫室。
帝常登永安候台，宦官恐其望见居外，乃使中大人尚但谏曰： 天子不当登高，登高则百姓虚散。
自是不敢复升台榭。
translation: 
The governor and prefect secretly increased the number of conscripts, and the people cried out and sighed, suffering unspeakably.
Whenever the emperor asked for something, he would send knights in the Western Garden to secretly carry the emperor's orders, known as "envoys", to intimidate states and counties, and often accept bribes.
The governor, Erqianshi, Maocai and Xiaolian were all promoted and appointed, and they were all ordered to provide military supplies and palace repair money. For large counties, the amount was 20 to 30 million, and the rest were different.
Anyone who should take office must first go to Xiyuan to assess his worth before going there.
Some people don't pay enough and even commit suicide.
Those who maintained their innocence begged not to take office and were sent by force.
At that time, the newly appointed governor of Julu County, Sima Zhi, who was from Hanoi County, had a clear name, so he reduced the number and was ordered to pay three million.
Sima went directly to the edict and said melancholy: "As the parents of the people, I plunder the people to meet today's needs. I can't bear it!"
Resigning due to illness is not allowed by the superiors. Walking to Mengjin, he wrote a letter to state the faults of his time and the lessons of ancient and modern disasters, and then committed suicide by taking medicine.
After the memorial was published, the emperor temporarily suspended the collection of palace repair money for this purpose.
He also built the Wanjin Hall in the Western Garden, collected money and silk from the farmers, and filled it with silk.
He returned to Hejian to buy land and houses and build mansions and buildings.
Emperor Ling was originally a marquis and had always been poor. He often lamented that Emperor Huan could not buy a family property, so he collected money and property as private property, and also collected tens of millions each from the small Huangmen's regular servants.
Emperor Ling often said: Zhang Changshi is my father-in-law, and Zhao Changshi is my mother.
The eunuchs were successful and fearless, and everyone built private residences imitating the palaces.
Emperor Ling often climbed to the Yong'an Marquis Tower. The eunuch was afraid that he would see his residence, so he sent Shang Dan, the great minister of Zhongda, to persuade the emperor: "The emperor should not climb high. If you climb high, the people will be scattered."
From then on, the emperor no longer visited the pavilions.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
明年，遂使钩盾令宋典缮修南宫玉堂。
又使掖庭令毕岚铸铜人四列于仓龙、玄武阙，又铸四钟，皆受二千斛，县于玉堂及云台殿前。
又铸天禄虾蟆，吐水于平门外桥东，转水入宫。
又作翻车渴乌，旋于桥西，用洒南北郊路，以省百姓洒道之费。
又铸四出文钱，钱皆四道。
识者窃言侈虐已甚，形象兆见，此钱成，必四道而去。
及京师大乱，钱果流布四海。
复以忠为车骑将军，百余日罢。
六年，帝崩。中军校尉袁绍说大将军何进，令诛中官以悦天下。
谋泄，让、忠等因进入省，遂共杀进。
而绍勒兵斩忠，捕宦官无少长悉斩之。
让等数十人劫质天子走河上。追急，让等悲哭辞曰： 臣等殄灭，天下乱矣。
translation: 
The next year, he sent Gou Dun to order Song Dian to repair the Yutang of Nangong.
He also sent Ye Ting to order Bi Lan to cast four bronze figures and arrange them in front of Canglong and Xuanwu palaces. Four more bells were cast, which could hold two thousand grains, and were hung in front of the Yutang and Yuntai Halls.
He also cast a Tianlu shrimp toad, spitting water to the east of the bridge outside Pingmen, and then diverted the water into the palace.
They also built overturned carts and placed them on the west side of the bridge to spray the roads in the northern and southern suburbs to save the people the cost of spraying the roads.
Four more coins were cast, each with four patterns connected to the side wheels.
People who understand privately say that luxury and tyranny have reached the extreme. When a sign appears, this kind of money must be scattered in all directions.
When the capital was in chaos, this kind of money was indeed scattered all over the world.
He also appointed Zhao Zhong as a general of chariots and cavalry, and was dismissed from his post after more than a hundred days.
In the sixth year of Zhongping, Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty died. Yuan Shao, the lieutenant of the Central Military Academy, persuaded General He Jin to order the killing of eunuchs to make the world happy.
The plan was leaked, and Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong and others took advantage of He entering the palace and jointly killed He Jin.
Yuan Shao led his troops to kill Zhao Zhong, hunted down the eunuchs, and killed them all, young and old.
Zhang Rang and dozens of others took the emperor hostage and fled to the Yellow River. They were pursued urgently. Zhang Rang and others cried sadly and said goodbye to the emperor, saying: "We will be extinct, and the world will be in chaos!"


Chunk 28: 
original: 
惟陛下自爱！
皆投河而死。
论曰：自古丧大业绝宗禋者，其所渐有由矣。
三代以嬖色取祸，嬴氏以奢虐致灾，西京自外戚失祚，东都缘阉尹倾国。
成败之来，先史商之久矣。
至于衅起宦夫，其略犹或可言。
何者？
刑余之丑，理谢全生，声荣无辉于门阀，肌肤莫传于来体，推情未鉴其敝，即事易以取信，加渐染朝事，颇识典物，故少主凭谨旧之庸，女君资出内之命，顾访无猜惮之心，恩狎有可悦之色。
亦有忠厚平端，怀术纠邪；或敏才给对，饰巧乱实；或借誉贞良，先时荐誉。
非直苟恣凶德，止于暴横而已。
然莫邪并行，情貌相越，故能回惑昏幼，迷瞀视听，盖亦有其理焉。
诈利既滋，朋徒日广，直臣抗议，必漏先言之间，至戚发愤，方启专夺之隙，斯忠贤所以智屈，社稷故其为墟。
translation: 
I hope your Majesty will take good care of yourself!
After saying that, they all committed suicide by throwing themselves into the river.
The historian commented: Since ancient times, the loss of the country and the destruction of the clan did not happen overnight, but happened slowly.
The Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties brought disasters due to lust, Qin Shihuang caused troubles due to luxury and cruelty, the Western Han Dynasty died due to relatives, and the Eastern Han Dynasty lost the country due to eunuchs.
Success or failure has been discussed a lot in history books in the past.
As for the crime of eunuchs, there is probably something to discuss.
Why?
People like eunuchs are different from ordinary people. They have a bad reputation and are not from noble families. His skin and blood cannot be passed on to future generations. On the surface, no disadvantages can be seen in him. He can easily gain trust in his work. In addition, he is well-informed in the court and familiar with the rules and regulations. Therefore, the young monarch relies on his cautious and sophisticated strengths, and the female monarch uses him to come in and out to obey orders. There is no suspicion or fear when visiting him, and there is a joyful feeling when approaching him.
There are also those who are loyal and upright, and use their skills to correct evil; there are those who are quick to deal with things and use tricks to confuse things; there are also those who borrow the reputation of being loyal and good and gain reputation in advance.
Not all of them are wanton and evil, they are just blindly violent.
However, the truth and falsehood go hand in hand, seemingly loyal, but actually evil, so it can confuse the weak and weak master, and confuse the audience. There is probably a certain reason in it.
Since there are many fraudulent profits and the number of party members is growing, loyal ministers will definitely leak out in advance if they protest outright. They are worried and angry and want to impose sanctions, which just gives them the opportunity to seize it.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
《易》曰： 履霜坚冰至。
云所从来久矣。
translation: 
"Book of Changes" says: Walking on frost and solid ice.
That is to say, it has been around for a long time. Did it just happen overnight?


