Summary uses chunk [0, 2]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝惠皇帝，高祖太子也，母曰吕皇后。
帝年五岁，高祖初为汉王。
二年，立为太子。
十二年四月，高祖崩。
五月丙寅，太子即皇帝位，尊皇后曰皇太后。
赐民爵一级。
中郎、郎中满六岁爵三级，四岁二级。
外郎满六岁二级。
中郎不满一岁一级。外郎不满二岁赐钱万。
宦官尚食比郎中，谒者、执楯、执戟、武士、驺比外郎。
太子御骖乘赐爵五大夫，舍人满五岁二级。
赐给丧事者，二千石钱二万，六百石以上万，五百石、二百石以下至佐史五千。
视作斥上者，将军四十金，二千石二十金，六百石以上六金，五百石以下至佐史二金。
translation: 
Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty was the crown prince of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and his mother was Empress Lu.
When he was five years old, Han Gaozu began to be the king of Han.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he was made the crown prince.
In April of the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Gaozu passed away.
On May 17, the prince became the emperor, and his mother, Empress Lu, became the empress dowager.
Reward subjects with first-level titles.
Zhonglang and Langzhong officials who have served for six years will be promoted to the third level, and those who have served for four years will be promoted to the second level.
A second-level wailang officer who has served for six years.
The middle man who has been in office for less than one year will be promoted to a higher level, and the outer man who has been in office for less than two years will be rewarded with a reward of 10,000 yuan.
The eunuch's salary is the same as that of a doctor. The salaries of the emperor's attendants such as the eunuchs, bearers, halberds, warriors, and cavalrymen were the same as those of the foreign ministers.
The prince's imperial concubine was rewarded with the title of fifth doctor, and those who served for five years would be given the title of second grade.
Those who organize the funeral for the great ancestor will be rewarded with a reward of 20,000 yuan for those with a salary of 2,000 shi, a reward of 10,000 for those with a salary of 600 shi or more, and a reward of 5,000 for those with a salary of less than 500 shi.
Those who build a mausoleum for the great ancestor will be rewarded 40 gold by the general, 20 gold for 2,000 shi, 6 gold for more than 600 shi, and 2 gold for less than 500 shi.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, son of Emperor Gaozu and Empress Lu, became crown prince in the second year of Gaozu's reign. After Gaozu's death in April of the twelfth year, Hui ascended the throne on May 17, with his mother becoming empress dowager. He issued decrees rewarding subjects with titles and promoting officials based on service length: Zhonglang and Langzhong officials serving six years received third-level promotions, those serving four years received second-level promotions, and various other officials received specific rewards. Those who organized Gaozu's funeral received monetary rewards based on salary, and those who built his mausoleum received gold. Land rent was reduced to one tax per fifteen people. Certain officials and their families were exempted from corvée labor except military tax. Princes were ordered to build Gaozu's ancestral temple.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
二年冬十月，齐悼惠王来朝，献城阳郡以益鲁元公主邑，尊公主为太后。
春正月癸酉，有两龙见兰陵家人井中，乙亥夕而不见。
陇西地震。
夏旱。
郃阳侯仲薨。
秋七月辛未，相国何薨。
三年春，发长安六百里内男女十四万六千人城长安，三十日罢。
以宗室女为公主，嫁匈奴单于。
夏五月，立闽越君摇为东海王。
六月，发诸侯王、列侯徒隶二万人城长安。
秋七月，都厩灾。
南越王赵佗称臣奉贡。
四年冬十月壬寅，立皇后张氏。
春正月，举民孝弟、力田者复其身。
三月甲子，皇帝冠，赦天下。
省法令妨吏民者；除挟书律。
长乐宫鸿台灾。宜阳雨血。
秋七月乙亥，未央宫凌室灾；丙子，织室灾。
五年冬十月，雷；桃李华，枣实。
春正月，复发长安六百里内男女十四万五千人城长安，三十日罢。
夏，大旱。
translation: 
In the winter of October of the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, King Hui of Qi came to pay homage and presented Chengyang County to increase Princess Lu Yuan's Tangmuyi. Respect Princess Lu Yuan as the Queen Mother.
On the fourth day of the first lunar month of spring, two dragons appeared in the well of a hundred people's houses in Lanling. On the evening of the 6th, his whereabouts were unknown.
An earthquake occurred in Longxi.
That summer, there was a drought.
Yanghou Liu Zhong passed away.
In autumn, on July 5th, Prime Minister Xiao He passed away.
In the spring of the third year of Emperor Hui's reign, 146,000 male and female migrant workers within 600 miles of Chang'an were recruited to build Chang'an City for a period of thirty days.
The daughter of the Liu family was made a princess and married to King Shanyu of the Xiongnu as his wife to establish friendship.
In the fifth month of summer, the king of Minyue was granted the title of King of East China Sea.
In June, 20,000 princes, their families, and slaves were sent to Chang'an to build a city.
In autumn and July, a fire broke out in the royal stables.
Zhao Tuo, the king of South Vietnam, declared himself a minister and paid tribute.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign, Zhang Ao's daughter was made queen.
In the first month of spring, sages with filial piety and loyalty to the fields were selected from various places to exempt them from the burden of corvee service.
On March 17, the emperor held a crown ceremony and granted amnesty to the world.
Eliminate the laws that hinder the officials and the people, and abolish the Qin laws that make it illegal to carry a document.
A fire broke out in Hongtai of Changle Palace, and blood rain occurred in Yiyang area.
On the 20th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in the ling room of Weiyang Palace; on the 21st, a fire broke out in the weaving room.
In the tenth month of winter in the fifth year of Emperor Hui's reign, thunder rumbled, peaches and plums blossomed, and jujube trees bore fruit.
In the first month of spring, 145,000 male and female migrant workers within 600 miles of Chang'an were again recruited to build the city in Chang'an for a period of thirty days.
That summer, there was a severe drought.

summary:
summary line 1: In the first year of his reign, King Liu Ruyi of Zhao died. Subjects could atone for capital crimes with money. Commoners received title promotions. Chang'an city construction began. In the second year, King Hui of Qi presented Chengyang County to increase Princess Lu Yuan's territory. Two dragons appeared in Lanling, an earthquake struck Longxi, drought occurred, and Yanghou Liu Zhong and Prime Minister Xiao He died. In the third year, 146,000 workers built Chang'an for thirty days. A Liu family princess married the Xiongnu Shanyu. The King of Minyue was titled King of East China Sea, and 20,000 princes and slaves built Chang'an. A fire broke out in royal stables, and Zhao Tuo of South Vietnam paid tribute. In the fourth year, Zhang Ao's daughter became queen. Filial and loyal sages were exempted from corvée. The emperor held a crown ceremony with amnesty, abolished restrictive Qin laws, and fires occurred in Changle and Weiyang Palaces. In the fifth year, unusual weather included thunder and fruit blossoming in winter. Another 145,000 workers built Chang'an. Severe drought struck, Prime Minister Cao Shen died, and Chang'an city was completed. In the sixth year, King Fei of Qi died. Titles could be bought, and unmarried women aged fifteen to thirty were fined. Fan Kuai died, and the west city and Aocang were built. In the seventh year, chariot officers were sent to Xingyang. Solar eclipses occurred, and Emperor Hui died in Weiyang Palace on August 12, buried in Anling on September 5. Ban Gu commented that Hui was kind and respectful but fell short of saintliness due to Empress Lu's actions.

