Chunk 0: 
original: 
胡僧祐徐文盛杜掞兄岸弟幼安兄子龛阴子春
胡僧祐，字愿果，南阳冠军人。少勇决，有武干。仕魏至银青光禄大夫，以大通二年归国，频上封事，高祖器之，拜假节、超武将军、文德主帅，使戍项城。城陷，复没于魏。
中大通元年，陈庆之送魏北海王元颢入洛阳，僧祐又得还国，除南天水、天门二郡太守，有善政。
性好读书，不解缉缀。然每在公宴，必强赋诗，文辞鄙俚，多被嘲谑，僧祐怡然自若，谓己实工，矜伐愈甚。
晚事世祖，为镇西录事参军。
侯景乱，西沮蛮反，世祖令僧祐讨之，使尽诛其渠帅，僧祐谏，忤旨下狱。
大宝二年，侯景寇荆陕，围王僧辩于巴陵，世祖乃引僧祐于狱，拜为假节、武猛将军，封新市县侯，令赴援。
僧祐将发，谓其子曰： 汝可开两门，一门拟硃，一门拟白。
吉则由硃门，凶则由白门。吾不捷不归也。
世祖闻而壮之。
至杨浦，景遣其将任约率锐卒五千，据白塔，遥以待之。
僧祐由别路西上，约谓畏己而退，急追之，及于南安芊口，呼僧祐曰： 吴儿，何为不早降？
走何处去。
僧祐不与之言，潜引却，至赤砂亭，会陆法和至，乃与并军击约，大破之，擒约送于江陵。侯景闻之遂遁。
世祖以僧祐为侍中、领军将军，征还荆州。
承圣二年，进为车骑将军、开府仪同三司，余悉如故。
西魏寇至，以僧祐为都督城东诸军事。
魏军四面起攻，百道齐举，僧祐亲当矢石，昼夜督战，奖励将士，明于赏罚，众皆感之，咸为致死，所向摧殄，贼莫敢前。
俄而中流矢卒，时年六十三。
世祖闻之，驰往临哭。
translation: 
Hu Sengyou, whose name is Yuanguo, is a champion in Nanyang. He has been brave and decisive since he was a child, and has the ability to be a soldier.
He served as an official in the State of Wei and reached the rank of Yinqing Guanglu. He returned to the capital in the second year of Datong and frequently applied for titles. Emperor Gaozu thought highly of him and awarded him the title of "Fake Festival", "Super Military General" and "Wende Commander", and sent him to guard Xiangcheng. Xiangcheng was captured, and Hu Sengyou fell to Wei again.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, Chen Qingzhi sent Wang Yuanhao of Wei Beihai to Luoyang. Hu Sengku was able to return to the capital and was awarded the title of prefect of Nantianshui and Tianmen counties. He left good political achievements wherever he served as an official.
Hu Sengku liked reading by nature, but he was not good at writing poems and compositions. However, every time at the court banquet, Hu Sengyou would try his best to compose poems. The poems were vulgar and often ridiculed by others. Hu Sengyou was happy as usual, thinking that his poems were indeed exquisite.
Conceit and boasting are even more powerful. Hu Sengyou served Shizu in his later years and served as Zhenxi Lushi to join the army.
When Hou Jing rebelled, the Western Jumans also rebelled. Shizu ordered Hu Sengcoff to attack the Western Jumans, and ordered Hu Senghu to kill all the barbarian chiefs and leaders. Hu Sengyou came to remonstrate and was imprisoned for violating Shizu's will.
In the second year of Dashi, Hou Jing invaded Jingshan and surrounded Wang Sengbian in Baling. The emperor summoned Hu Sengyou from prison, awarded him the title of General Jiajie and Wumeng, and named him the Marquis of Xinshi County, and ordered him to rush to aid Wang Sengbian.
When Hu Sengyou was about to set off, he said to his son: You can open two gates, one gate is to be turned into a red gate, and the other gate is to be turned into a white gate.
Good luck will enter the house through the red door, and bad luck will enter the house through the white door. I will not go home unless I win.
When Shizu heard Hu Sengyou's words, he felt that he was brave and commendable.
Hu Sengku led his army to Yangpu and sent his general Ren Gou to lead 5,000 elite soldiers to guard the fort and wait for Hu Sengyou's army to fight from a distance.
Hu Sengyou advanced westward by another road. Ren Yue thought that they were retreating because they were afraid of him, so he led his army to pursue them in a hurry. They caught up with Hu Sengku at Qiankou, Nan'an. Ren Yue called to Hu Sengyou and said: "Wu'er, why don't you surrender early?"
Where to escape to?
Hu Sengyou ignored his answer and secretly led his army to retreat. When they arrived at Chisha Pavilion, Lu Fahe and his army arrived. Hu Sengyou and Lu Fahe attacked Ren Yue together with the two armies, defeated Ren Yue's army, captured Ren Yue alive and sent him to Jiangling. Hou Jing led his army to escape after hearing the news that Ren Yue had been captured.
Shizu appointed Hu Sengyou as a minister and general, and recruited him back to Jingzhou.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, Hu Senyou was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry and Kaifu Yitong Third Division, while all other positions remained unchanged.
When the enemies of the Western Wei Dynasty invaded, Hu Sengyou was appointed as the governor of the city to supervise all military affairs.
The Wei army launched attacks from all sides, with many units attacking at the same time. Hu Sengyou personally braved the rock with arrows, supervised the battle day and night, rewarded the soldiers, and strictly rewarded and punished them. The soldiers were moved by him and were willing to fight to the death for him.
Wherever Hu Sengyou went, Naxiang's enemies were destroyed, and no enemy dared to attack again.
Soon Hu Sengyou was shot by a stray arrow and died at the age of sixty-three. When Shizu heard the news, he rushed to the east of the city to mourn.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是内外惶骇，城遂陷。
徐文盛，字道茂，彭城人也。
世仕魏为将。
父庆之，天监初，率千余人自北归款，未至道卒。
文盛仍统其众，稍立功绩，高祖甚优宠之。
大同末，以为持节、督宁州刺史。
先是，州在僻远，所管群蛮不识教义，贪欲财贿，劫篡相寻，前后刺史莫能制。
文盛推心抚慰，示以威德，夷獠感之，风俗遂改。
太清二年，闻国难，乃召募得数万人来赴。
世祖嘉之，以为持节、散骑常侍、左卫将军、督梁、南秦、沙、东益、巴、北巴六州诸军事、仁威将军、秦州刺史，授以东讨之略。
于是文盛督众军东下，至武昌，遇侯景将任约，遂与相持。
久之，世祖又命护军将军尹悦、平东将军杜幼安、巴州刺史王珣等会之，并受文盛节度。
击任约于贝矶，约大败，退保西阳。文盛进据芦洲，又与相持。
侯景闻之，乃率大众西上援约，至西阳。
文盛不敢战。
诸将咸曰： 景水军轻进，又甚饥疲，可因此击之，必大捷。
文盛不许。
文盛妻石氏，先在建鄴，至是，景载以还之。文盛深德景，遂密通信使，都无战心，众咸愤怨。
杜幼安、守簉等乃率所领独进，与景战，大破之，获其舟舰以归。
会景密遣骑从间道袭陷郢州，军中凶惧，遂大溃。
文盛奔还荆州，世祖仍以为城北面都督。
又聚赃污甚多，世祖大怒，下令责之，数其十罪，除其官爵。
文盛既失兵权，私怀怨望，世祖闻之，乃以下狱。
时任约被擒，与文盛同禁。
文盛谓约曰： 汝何不早降，令我至此。
约曰： 门外不见卿马迹，使我何遽得降？
文盛无以答，遂死狱中。
translation: 
As a result, everyone inside and outside the imperial court was in panic, and the city was finally captured.
Xu Wensheng, courtesy name Daomao, was born in Pengcheng.
His family has been serving as officials and generals in Wei for generations.
Xu Wensheng's father, Xu Qingzhi, led more than a thousand people to surrender in the early years of Tianjian, but he died on the way before they arrived.
Xu Wensheng continued to command more than a thousand men and horses, and gradually made many achievements. Emperor Gaozu treated him favorably and favored him.
In the last years of Datong, Emperor Gaozu appointed Xu Wensheng as the governor of Ningzhou and the governor of Zhijie.
Before Xu Wensheng took office, Ningzhou was located in a remote area, and the barbarians under its jurisdiction did not understand the etiquette and etiquette of education. They were just greedy for money, and robberies and robberies continued one after another. No one who served as governor could stop it.
Xu Wensheng expressed his sincerity and compassion, showing both power and virtue. All the Yi officials were influenced by him, and the customs of Ningzhou changed.
In the second year of Taiqing, Xu Wensheng heard that the country was in trouble, so he recruited soldiers. He led the recruited 10,000 people to come to the rescue.
The emperor praised his loyalty and appointed him as Chijie, Changshi of Sanqi, General of Zuowei, Supervisor of Liangnan, Qinsha, Shuyi, Babeiba and the six states of military affairs, General Renwei, and governor of Qinzhou, and entrusted him with the strategy of marching eastward.
So Xu Wensheng led the troops down the river and marched eastward. When they arrived at Wuchang, they met Hou Jing's general Ren Yue. Xu Wensheng then faced off against Ren Yue for a long time.
Shizu also ordered the guard general Yin Yue, Pingshu general Du Youan, Bazhou governor Wang Xi and others to lead their troops to meet with Xu Wensheng, asking them to obey Xu Wensheng's command.
Xu Wensheng and others attacked Ren Yue in Beji. Ren Yue was defeated and retreated to Xiyang. Xu Wensheng marched to occupy Luzhou and held a stalemate with Ren Yue.
When Hou Jing heard the news about the Japanese, he led his army up the river and westward to rescue Ren Yue, and also reached Xiyang.
Xu Wensheng did not dare to fight.
All his generals said: Hou Jing's navy advanced rashly, and the soldiers were hungry and tired. If we can seize the opportunity to attack them, we will definitely win a great victory.
Xu Wensheng refused.
Xu Wensheng's wife, Shi, was originally in Jianye. When she was dispatched, Hou Jing took Shi on a boat and sent her back to Xu Wensheng. Xu Wensheng was deeply grateful to Hou Jing, so he sent envoys to secretly communicate with Hou Jing without any intention of fighting. His generals were angry and resentful.
Du Youan and Song Yao led their troops to advance alone, fought with Hou Jing, defeated Hou Jing's army, and captured Hou Jing's ships before returning.
At that time, Hou Jing secretly sent cavalry to attack Yingzhou from the trail. Yingzhou was captured. Xu Wensheng's army was frightened and uneasy, so the whole army was defeated.
Xu Wensheng fled back to Jingzhou, and Shizu appointed Xu Wensheng as the governor of the north of the city.
Xu Wensheng also engaged in corruption and bribery, amassing a lot of property. The emperor was very angry and ordered Xu Wensheng to be punished. He listed ten crimes against him and removed his title.
After Xu Wensheng lost his military power, he was resentful. When Shizu found out about it, he imprisoned Xu Wensheng.
Ren Yue was also captured at that time and was imprisoned in the same place as Xu Wensheng.
Xu Wensheng said to Ren Yue: Why didn't you surrender earlier, and now I am imprisoned in this place.
Ren Yue said: There are no traces of your horse hooves outside the gate of my military camp. How can I surrender?
Xu Wensheng had nothing to say and eventually died in prison.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
杜掞，京兆杜陵人也。
其先自北归南，居于雍州之襄阳，子孙因家焉。
祖灵启，齐给事中。
父怀宝，少有志节，常邀际会。
高祖义师东下，随南平王伟留镇襄阳。
天监中，稍立功绩，官至骁猛将军、梁州刺史。
大同初，魏梁州刺史元罗举州内附，怀宝复进督华州。
值秦州所部武兴氐王杨绍反，怀宝击破之。
五年，卒于镇。
掞即怀宝第七子也。
幼有志气，居乡时以胆勇称。
释褐庐江骠骑府中兵参军。
世祖临荆州，仍参幕府，后为新兴太守。
太清二年，随岳阳王来袭荆州，世祖以与之有旧，密邀之。掞乃与兄岸、弟幼安、兄子龛等夜归于世祖，世祖以为持节、信威将军、武州刺史。
俄迁宣毅将军，领镇蛮护军、武陵内史，枝江县侯，邑千户。
令随王僧辩东讨侯景。
至巴陵，会景来攻，数十日不克而遁。
加侍中、左卫将军，进爵为公，增邑五百户。
仍随僧辩追景至石头，与贼相持横岭。
及战，景亲率精锐，左右冲突，掞从岭后横截之，景乃大败，东奔晋陵，掞入据城。
景平，加散骑常侍、持节、督江州诸军事、江州刺史，增邑千户。
是月，齐将郭元建攻秦州刺史严超远于秦郡，王僧辩令掞赴援。
陈霸先亦自欧阳来会，与元建大战于士林，霸先令强弩射，元建众却。掞因纵兵击，大破之，斩首万余级，生擒千余人，元建收余众而遁。
时世祖执王琳于江陵，其长史陆纳等遂于长沙反，世祖征掞与王僧辩讨之。
承圣二年，及纳等战于车轮，大败，陷其二垒，纳等走保长沙，掞等围之。
后纳等降，掞又与王僧辩西讨武陵王于硖口，至即破平之。
translation: 
Du Chan was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
His ancestors returned to the Southern Dynasty from the north and lived in Xiangyang, Yongzhou, where their descendants settled.
Du Ze's grandfather, Du Lingqi, was appointed to Shizhong during the Qi Dynasty.
Du Qi's father, Du Huaibao, was ambitious and upright since he was a child, and often encountered good opportunities.
Gaozu led the rebel army to denounce Donghun Hou along the river, and Du Huaibao followed Xiao Wei, the king of Nanping, to stay and guard Xiangyang.
During his imprisonment, Du Huaixuan's merits gradually increased, and his official position was promoted to the rank of Fierce General and Liangzhou Governor.
In the early years of Datong, Yuan Luo, the governor of Liangzhou in Wei, led the state to surrender, and Du Huaibao went to supervise Huazhou.
At the time when the king of Genbian District under Qinzhou rebelled, Si Huaiyi led his army to defeat Sanmi.
In the fifth year of Taitong, Du Huaishi died at the place where he served.
Du Ze is Du Huaishi's seventh son.
He has been ambitious since he was a child and is known in his hometown for his courage and bravery.
When he first became an official, he was appointed as a soldier in Lujiang Huqi Prefecture and joined the army.
When Shizu was in charge of Jingzhou, Du Zhu still joined the army for the shogunate and later served as the governor of Qixing.
In the second year of Taiqing, Du Tuan followed King Yueyang to invade Jingzhou. Because of his long-standing friendship with Du Ze, Shizu secretly invited Du Qi to join him. Du Tuan, his elder brother Du An, his younger brother You'an You'an, his elder brother's son Zhuan Xin and others returned to Shisu at night. Shizu conferred the title of Silk Witch as Chijie, General Xinwei, and the governor of Wuzhou.
Soon he was promoted to General Xuanyi, leading the Zhenman Guards and the internal history of Wuling. He was granted the title of Marquis of Zhijiang County and was granted the title of a thousand households in the town.
Shizu ordered Du Ze to follow Wang Sengbian and march eastward to conquer Hou Jing.
When he led his army to Baling, he was met by Hou Jing who came to attack. Hou Jing attacked for ten days and ran away after failing to win.
Du Xun was promoted to Shizhong and Zuowei General, his title was promoted to Duke, and he was granted an additional 500 households.
Du Xun continued to follow Wang Sengbian in pursuit of Hou Jing until he reached Shitou, where he held a stalemate with the rebels at Jinling.
When the two sides fought, Hou Jing personally led the elite soldiers, charging left and right. Du Juan rushed out from behind the ridge, intercepted and killed Hou Jing's army. Hou Jing was defeated and fled east to Jinling, while Du occupied Stone City.
After Hou Jing's rebellion was put down, Du Yajia added Sanqi Changshi, Zhijie, supervised the military in Jiangzhou, and the governor of Jiangzhou, adding thousands of households to the city.
This month, Qi general Guo Yuanjian attacked Qinzhou governor Yan Chaoyuan in Qin County. Wang Sengbian ordered Du Juan to rush to the rescue, and Chen Ba also led his army from Kamu to join Si Ouyanghe.
They fought against Shilin in Yuanjian. Chen Baxian ordered a volley of powerful crossbows, and Yuan Jian's army retreated. Du Juan took the opportunity to attack and defeated Guo Yuanjian's army, killing more than 10,000 people and capturing more than a thousand alive. Jian gathered up the remaining soldiers and fled.
At this time Shizu was holding Wang Lin in Jiangling, and his subordinates such as Shilu Na and others rebelled in Changsha. Shizu recruited Du Chan and Wang Sengbian to fight together.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, the people fought in the wheel, were defeated, and captured two of their fortresses. Shilu Na and others fled to Changsha to defend, and Du Chan and others surrounded him.
Later, Shilu Na and others surrendered, and Du Juan and Wang Sengbian marched westward to conquer King Wuling. The army arrived and immediately defeated the rebels and put down the rebellion.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
于是旋镇，遘疾卒。
诏曰： 掞，京兆旧姓，元凯苗裔。家传学业，世载忠贞。
自驱传江渚，政号廉能。推毂浅原，实闻清静。
奄致殒丧，恻怆于怀。
可赠车骑将军，加鼓吹一部。
谥曰武。
掞兄弟九人，兄嵩、岑、旂、岌、嶷、巘、岸及弟幼安，并知名当世。
岸，字公衡。
少有武干，好从横之术。
太清中，与掞同归世祖，世祖以为持节、平北将军、北梁州刺史，封江陵县侯，邑一千户。
岸因请袭襄阳，世祖许之。
岸乃昼夜兼行，先往攻其城，不克。岳阳至，遂走依其兄巘于南阳，巘时为南阳太守。
岳阳寻遣攻陷其城，岸及巘俱遇害。
幼安性至孝，宽厚，雄勇过人。
太清中，与兄掞同归世祖，世祖以为云麾将军、西荆州刺史，封华容县侯，邑一千户。
令与平南将军王僧辩讨河东王誉于长沙，平之。
又命率精甲一万，助左卫将军徐文盛东讨侯景。
至贝矶，遇景将任约来逆，遂与战，大败之。斩其仪同叱罗子通、湘州刺史赵威方等，传首江陵。
乃进军大举，因与景相持。
别攻武昌，拔之。
景渡芦洲上流以压文盛等，幼安与众军攻之，景大败，尽获其舟舰。
会景密遣袭陷郢州，执刺史方诸等以归，人情大骇，徐文盛由汉口遁归，众军大败，幼安遂降于景。景杀之，以其多反覆故也。
龛，掞第二兄岑之子。
少骁勇，善用兵，亦太清中与诸父同归世祖，世祖以为持节、忠武将军、郧州刺史，中庐县侯，邑一千户。
translation: 
So he returned to town, fell ill and died.
Shidan Xiashao said: Du Juan is a member of the Jingzhao family, a descendant of Yuan Kai, his family education has been passed down from generation to generation, and he has been loyal from generation to generation.
Since he was recruited as an official on both sides of the river, he has been praised as being able and honest in his administration; he has been worshiped as a general in Qianyuan, and the world has become peaceful because of this.
The sudden loss made me sad and sad, and the grief was difficult to control.
You can give it to the general of chariots and cavalry, and add a piece of propaganda.
Give silence as a weapon.
There are nine Du Chan brothers. The elder brothers Du Song, Du Cen, Du Qi, Du Qi, Du Yi, Du Xi, Du An and the younger brother You'an are all famous in contemporary times.
Du An's courtesy name is Gongheng.
He has had military talents since he was a child, and he likes to join forces vertically and horizontally to lobby.
During the Taiqing period, Du An and Du Xun returned to Shizu together. Shizu granted Du An the title of Chijie, General Pingbei, and governor of Beiliang Prefecture. He was also granted the title of Marquis of Jiangling County and a settlement of 1,000 households.
Du An asked for permission to lead his troops to attack Xiangyang, and Shizu agreed.
Du An then traveled day and night to attack Xiangyang City first. Before it was conquered, King Yueyang arrived, and Yueyang fled to rely on his brother Du Guo, who was the governor of Nanyang at the time.
Yueyang soon sent troops to capture the city, and Du An and his brother Du Xie were killed together.
Du Youan was the most filial by nature, generous to others, and extremely brave.
During the reign of Zuo Zha, Du You'an and his brother Du Guan joined Shizu. Shizu granted him the title of General Yunhui, governor of West Jingzhou, and the title of Marquis of Huarong County, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Shizu ordered him to go to Changsha with Pingnan General Wang Sengbian to conquer Hedong Wang Yu and quell the rebellion.
Shi Piao also ordered Du Youan to lead 10,000 elite troops to assist Zuowei General Xu Wensheng in marching eastward to conquer Hou Jing.
When they arrived at Beji, they met Ren Yueyue, the general waiting for Jing, to fight against him. He fought with Ren Diao and was defeated. He killed the puppet official Yi Tongchi Luo Zitong, the Xiangzhou governor Zhao Weifang and others, and sent their heads to Jiangling.
So he marched until he went there and held a stalemate with Hou Jing.
In addition, he sent people to attack Wuchang and pull it out.
Hou Jing crossed Liao from the upper reaches of Luzhou to attack Xu Wensheng and others. You'an and other troops attacked Hou Jing. Hou Jing was defeated and all the ships were captured.
At that time, Hou Jing secretly sent troops to attack and capture Jianye, and captured Lu Zuozhan, the governor of Jianye, and others and brought them back. Xu Wensheng and the army were frightened and panicked. Xu Wensheng fled back from Hankou. All the troops were defeated. Du You'an surrendered to Hou Jing. Hou Jing killed Du You'an because of his erratic behavior.
Du Gong is the son of Du Cen, Du Gong's second brother.
He was very strong and brave when he was young, and was good at using soldiers. During the Taiqing period, he and his uncles joined Shizu. Shizu awarded him the title of Chijie, Zhongwu General, Yunzhou Governor, and the title of Marquis of Zhonglu County, with a settlement of 1,000 households.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
与叔幼安俱随王僧辩讨河东王，平之。
又随僧辩下，继徐文盛军至巴陵，闻侯景袭陷郢州，西上将至，乃与僧辩等守巴陵以待之。
景至，围之数旬，不克而遁。
迁太府卿、安北将军、督定州诸军事、定州刺史，加通直散骑常侍，增邑五百户。
仍随僧辩追景至江夏，围其城。
景将宋子仙弃城遁，龛追至杨浦，生擒之。
大宝三年，众军至姑孰，景将侯子鉴逆战，龛与陈霸先、王琳等率精锐击之，大败子鉴，遂至于石头。
景亲率其党会战，龛与众军奋击，大破景，景遂东奔。
论功为最，授平东将军、东扬州刺史，益封一千户。
承圣二年，又与王僧辩讨陆纳等于长沙，降之。
又征武陵王于西陵，亦平之。
后江陵陷，齐纳贞阳侯以绍梁嗣，以龛为震州刺史、吴兴太守。
又除镇南将军、都督南豫州诸军事、南豫州刺史、溧阳县侯，给鼓吹一部。又加散骑常侍、镇东大将军。
会陈霸先袭陷京师，执王僧辩杀之。
龛，僧辩之婿也，为吴兴太守。
以霸先既非贵素，兵又猥杂，在军府日，都不以霸先经心；及为本郡，每以法绳其宗门，无所纵舍，霸先衔之切齿。
及僧辩败，龛乃据吴兴以距之，遣军副杜泰攻陈蒨于长城，反为蒨所败。
霸先乃遣将周文育讨龛，龛令从弟北叟出距，又为文育所破，走义兴，霸先亲率众围之。
会齐将柳达摩等袭京师，霸先恐，遂还与齐人连和。
龛闻齐兵还，乃降，遂遇害。
阴子春，字幼文，武威姑臧人也。
translation: 
His uncle Du Youan followed Wang Zengluan to conquer the King of Return to Tomb and put down the rebellion.
He followed Wang Sengbian down the river and arrived at Baling after Xu Wensheng's army. Hearing that Hou Jing had attacked and captured Yingzhou, he was heading up the river and marching westward. When he was about to reach Baling, Du Chong, Wang Sengbian and others defended Baling and waited for Hou Jing to attack.
Hou Jing went to Baling and besieged it for dozens of days, but could not conquer it and then escaped.
Du Chong moved to the post of Taifu Qing, General Anbei, supervising the military affairs of Dingzhou, and governor of Dingzhou. He was also granted the title of Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, and added 500 households in the city.
Du Fu continued to follow Wang Sengbian in pursuit of Hou Jing as far as Jiangxia, and besieged the city of Jiangxia.
Hou Jing's general Song Zixian abandoned the city and fled. Du Chong pursued him to Yangpu and captured Song Zixian alive.
In the third year of Dashi, various armies arrived at Gushu. Hou Jing's general Hou Zijian fought against him. Du Chong, Chen Baxian, Wang Lin and others led the elite soldiers to attack and defeated Hou Zijian, so the army arrived at Shitou.
Hou Jing personally led his rebels into battle. Du Chong and all the troops fought together and defeated Hou Jing's rebels, and Hou Jing fled eastward.
After inspecting his military merits, Du Chong found him to be the best, so he was awarded the title of General Pingshu and the governor of Shu Yangzhou, and he was granted an additional 1,000 households.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, Du Chong and Wang Sengbian went to Changsha to conquer Lu Na and others, forcing Lu Na and others to surrender.
He went to Xiling to conquer King Wuling and quelled the rebellion.
After Jiangling was captured, Qi State sent Marquis Zhenyang to inherit the throne of Liang State. After Zhenyang Hou ascended the throne, he appointed Du Chong as the governor of Zhenzhou and the prefect of Wuxing.
He was also awarded the title of General of Zhennan, Commander-in-Chief of all military forces in Southern Yuzhou, Governor of Southern Yuzhou, and Marquis of Liyang County, and was given the rank of Advocate; he was also granted the title of Regular Attendant of Disciplined Cavalry, and General of Zhenshu.
Just as Chen Baxian attacked and captured the capital, he captured Wang Sengbian and killed him.
Du Chong was Wang Sengbian's son-in-law and served as the prefect of Wuxing.
He believed that Chen Baxian was not from a noble family, and his soldiers were disorganized. When handling military affairs, he did not take Chen Baxian into consideration at all. When managing the affairs of the county, he always dealt with Chen Baxian's fellow clan members according to law and discipline without mercy. Chen Baxian hated this and gritted his teeth.
After Wang Sengbian was killed, Du Chong defended Wuxing to resist Chen Baxian, and sent his deputy Du Tai to the Great Wall to attack Chen Bei. Du Tai was defeated by Chen Hao.
Chen Baxian then sent his general Zhou Wenyu to attack Du Chong. Du Chong ordered his cousin Du Beisou to fight, but was defeated by Zhou Wenyu. He then fled to Yixing, and Chen Baxian personally led an army to surround them.
When Qi general Liu Damo and others attacked the capital, Chen Ba was frightened and returned to the capital to make peace with the Qi people.
Du Chong surrendered after hearing that the Qi army had returned to the country, and was killed.
Yin Zichun, whose courtesy name is Youwen, was born in Guzang, Wuwei.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
晋义熙末，曾祖袭，随宋高祖南迁，至南平，因家焉。
父智伯，与高祖邻居，少相友善，尝入高祖卧内，见有异光成五色，因握高祖手曰： 公后必大贵，非人臣也。
天下方乱，安苍生者，其在君乎！
高祖曰： 幸勿多言。
于是情好转密，高祖每有求索，如外府焉。
及高祖践阼，官至梁、秦二州刺史。
子春，天监初，起家宣惠将军、西阳太守。
普通中，累迁至明威将军、南梁州刺史；又迁信威将军、都督梁、秦、华三州诸军事、梁、秦二州刺史。
太清二年，讨峡中叛蛮，平之。
征为左卫将军，又迁侍中。
属侯景乱，世祖令子春随领军将军王僧辩攻邵陵王于郢州，平之。
又与左卫将军徐文盛东讨侯景，至贝矶，与景遇，子春力战，恒冠诸军，频败景。
值郢州陷没，军遂退败。
大宝二年，卒于江陵。
孙颢，少知名。
释褐奉朝请，历尚书金部郎。
后入周。
撰《琼林》二十卷。
史臣曰：胡僧祐勇干有闻，搴旗破敌者数矣；及捐躯殉节，殒身王事，虽古之忠烈，何以加焉。
徐文盛始立功绩，不能终其成名，为不义也。
杜掞识机变之理，知向背之宜，加以身屡典军，频殄寇逆，勋庸显著，卒为中兴功臣。义哉！
translation: 
In the last years of Jin Yixi, Yin Zichun's great-grandfather Yin attacked and moved south with Song Gaozu to Nanping, where he settled down.
Yin Zichun's father, Yin Zhibo, lived next to Gaozu, and the two had been very friendly since childhood. Yin Zhibo once entered Gaozu's bedroom and saw the strange brilliance of five colors in the room. He took Gaozu's hand and said: You will be very noble in the future, no longer a minister.
The world is in turmoil, and the one who can calm the people is probably you!
Emperor Gaozu said: I hope you won’t say too much.
As a result, the friendship between the two became more and more profound. Whenever Gaozu needed something, he would get it from Yin Zhibo's place, just like getting it from a warehouse outside his home.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Yin Zhibo was promoted to governor of Liang and Qin states.
Zichun, in the early years of Tianjian, Yin Zichun was recruited from his family to serve as General Xuanhui and Prefect of Xiyang.
During ordinary years, Yin Zichun was promoted to General Mingwei and the governor of Nanliang Prefecture many times. He was also promoted to General Xinwei, governor of the military affairs of the three prefectures of Chitaigui, and governor of Liang and Qin Prefectures.
In the second year of Taiqing, Yin Zichun conquered the rebellious barbarians and put down the rebellion.
He was conscripted as the general of the left guard and moved to the rank of servant.
At the time of Hou Jing's rebellion, Shizu ordered Yin Zichun to follow the leading general Wang Sengbian to Yingzhou to conquer King Shaoling and pacify Yingzhou.
He also marched eastward with Xu Wensheng, the general of the left guard, to conquer Hou Jing. When they arrived at Beji, they met Hou Jing. Yin Zichun fought hard, often ranking first among the troops in military exploits, and defeated Hou Jing many times.
Just as Yingzhou was captured, the army retreated.
In the second year of Dashi, Yin Zichun died in Jiangling.
Sun Hao has been famous since he was a child.
When he first became an official, he was invited by the court to serve as Shangshu Jinbulang.
Yinhao later attached himself to Zhou.
He wrote twenty volumes of "Qiong Lin".
Shi Chen said: Hu Sengyou has long been famous for his military talents. He pulled down the enemy's flag and broke the enemy's formation, and made many military exploits. He even sacrificed his life to maintain his integrity and died in the king's affairs. Even among the loyal and martyrs in ancient times, there is no one who can surpass him.
Xu Wensheng made great achievements initially, but was unable to maintain his existing reputation in the end. This is unjust.
Du Xun understood the principle of change and the appropriate choice of direction. In addition, he was in charge of the army many times, frequently annihilated rebellions, and made outstanding achievements. In the end, he became the hero of the Liang Dynasty's resurgence. He was really moral!


