Chunk 0: 
original: 
朱晖孙穆乐恢何敞朱晖字文季，南阳宛人也。
家世衣冠。晖早孤，有气决。
年十三，王莽败，天下乱，与外氏家属从田间奔入宛城。
道遇群贼，白刃劫诸妇女，略夺衣物。
昆弟宾客皆惶迫，伏地莫敢动。
晖拔剑前曰： 财物皆可取耳，诸母衣不可得。
今日朱晖死日也！
贼见其小，壮其志，笑曰： 童子内刀。
遂舍之而去。
初，光武与晖父岑俱学长安，有旧故。
及即位，求问岑，时已卒，乃召晖拜为郎。
晖寻以病去，卒业于太学。
性矜严，进止必以礼，诸儒称其高。
永平初，显宗舅新阳侯阴就慕晖贤，自往侯之，晖避不见。
复遣家丞致礼，晖遂闭门不受。
就闻，叹曰： 志士也，勿夺其节。
后为郡吏，太守阮况尝欲市晖婢，晖不从。
及况卒，晖乃厚赠送其家。
人或讥焉，晖曰： 前阮府君有求于我，所以不敢闻命，诚恐以财货污君。
今而相送，明吾非有爱也。
骠骑将军东平王苍闻而辟之，甚礼敬焉。
正月朔旦，苍当入贺。
故事，少府给璧。
是时阴就为府卿，贵骄，吏慠不奉法。
苍坐朝堂，漏且尽，而求璧不可得，顾谓掾属曰： 若之何？
晖望见少府主簿持璧，即往绐之曰： 我数闻璧而未尝见，试请观之。
主簿以授晖，晖顾召令史奉之。
主簿大惊，遽以白就。
就曰： 朱椽义士，勿复求。
更以他璧朝。
苍既罢，召晖谓曰： 属者掾自视孰与蔺相如？
帝闻壮之。
及当幸长安，欲严宿卫，故以晖为卫士令。
再迁临淮太守。
晖好节概，有所拔用，皆厉行士。
其诸报怨，以义犯率，皆为求其理，多得生济。
其不义之囚，即时僵仆。
吏人畏爱，为之歌曰： 强直自遂，南阳朱季。
translation: 
◆Zhu Hui's biography, Zhu Hui's courtesy name Wen Ji, was born in Wan, Nanyang. The family has been dressed for generations.
Hui's father died when he was young, and he had Qi Jue.
When he was thirteen years old, Wang Mang failed and the world was in chaos. Zhu Hui and his grandmother's family rushed from the fields to Wancheng.
On the way, I met a group of thieves who robbed women with white blades and robbed them of their clothes and property.
Kundi's guests were all frightened, lying on the ground and not daring to move.
Zhu Hui drew his sword and stepped forward and said: "All property can be taken away, but the mother's clothes are not allowed to be touched."
Today is the day that I, Zhu Hui, will die!
The thief saw that he was young but had strong ambitions, so he smiled and said: "Young man, put your knife away!"
He abandoned them and went away.
At first, Emperor Guangwu and Zhu Hui's father, Zhu Cen, both studied in Chang'an and had old friendships.
After Guangwu came to the throne, he looked for Zhu Cen. Zhu Cen was dead by then, so he called Zhu Hui to be his minister.
Zhu Hui soon resigned due to illness and graduated from Taixue.
He has a reserved and severe temperament and must observe etiquette when entering and leaving. Confucian scholars praised him for his high moral character.
In the early years of Yongping, Xianzong's uncle Xinyang Houyin admired Zhu Hui's talents and went to greet him personally, but Zhu Hui avoided seeing him.
Yin then sent Jiacheng to give gifts, but Zhu Hui closed the door and ignored them.
Yin heard this and sighed: "You are such an ambitious man, don't take away his integrity."
Later, when Zhu Hui became a county official, the prefect Ruan Kuang once wanted to buy a maid from Zhu Hui's family, but Zhu Hui refused.
When Ruan Kuang died, Zhu Hui sent generous gifts to his home.
Some people ridiculed him, and Zhu Hui said: In the past, Mr. Ruan asked for help from me, but I did not dare to obey him. I was really afraid of insulting him with my wealth.
Sending her off now shows that I don't mean to cherish you.
Liu Cang, the hussar general and king of Dongping, heard about it and promoted him and treated him politely.
At dawn on the first day of the first lunar month, Liu Cang should come to congratulate you.
According to the old custom, the Shaofu gave jade.
At this time, Yin is the official of the government, noble and arrogant, and the officials are arrogant and do not abide by the law.
Liu Cang was sitting in the court hall, and the leakage was almost exhausted, but the jade he was seeking could not be found. Liu Cang turned around and said to his subordinates: "What's going on?"
Zhu Hui saw the chief secretary of the young mansion holding a jade, so he went to deceive him and said: "I have heard about jade many times but I have never seen it. Please show it to me."
The chief clerk gave the bib to Zhu Hui, and Zhu Hui turned around and summoned Shi Feng to deliver it to Liu Cang.
The chief clerk was shocked and quickly reported the situation.
Yin then said: "Zhu Yu is a righteous man, don't ask him any more."
He also presented himself with another jade stone.
After Liu Cang finished his salute, he said to Zhu Hui: "Who do you think is better, you or Lin Xiangru?"
The emperor heard that he was brave.
Later, when he was in Chang'an, he wanted to strictly adjust the guards, so Zhu Hui was used as the guard order.
Then he was promoted to the prefect of Linhuai.
Zhu Hui is good at moral integrity, and he implements his duties strictly.
Some people who complained were righteous offenders, and Zhu Hui sought justice for them and got more money.
Those unjust prisoners fell immediately.
The officials were very afraid of Zhu Hui and wrote a song: "If you are strong, you will succeed, Zhu Ji of Nanyang."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吏畏其威，人怀其惠。
数年，坐法免。
晖刚于为吏，见忌于上，所在多被劾。
自去临淮，屏居野泽，布衣蔬食，不与邑里通，乡党讥其介。
建初中，南阳大饥，米石千余，晖尽散其家资，以分宗里故旧之贫羸者，乡族皆归焉。
初，晖同县张堪素有名称，尝干太学见晖，甚重之，接以友道，乃把晖臂曰： 欲以妻子托朱生。
晖以堪先达，举手未敢对，自后不复相见。
堪卒，晖闻其妻子贫困，乃自往候视，厚赈赡之。
晖少子颉怪而问曰： 大人不与堪为友，平生未曾相闻，子孙窃怪之。
晖曰： 堪尝有知己之言，吾以信于心也。
晖又与同郡陈揖交善，揖早卒，有遗腹子友，晖常哀之。
及司徒桓虞为南阳太守，召晖子骈为吏，晖辞骈而荐友。
虞叹息，遂召之。
其义烈若此。
元和中，肃宗巡狩，告南阳太守问晖起居，召拜为尚书仆射。
岁中迁太山太守。
晖上疏乞留中，诏许之。
因上便宜，陈密事，深见嘉纳。
诏报曰： 补公家之阙，不累清白之素，斯善美之士也。
俗吏苟合，阿意面从，进无謇謇之志，却无退思之念，患之甚久。
惟今所言，适我愿也。
生其勉之！
是时谷贵，县官经用不足，朝廷忧之。
尚书张林上言： 谷所以贵，由钱贱故也。
可尽封钱，一取布帛为租，以通天下之用。
又盐，食之急者，虽贵，人不得不须，官可自鬻。
又宜因交阯、益州上计吏往来，市珍宝，收采其利，武帝时所谓均输者也。
于是诏诸尚书通议。
晖奏据林言不可施行，事遂寝。
后陈事者复重述林前议，以为于国诚便，帝然之，有诏施行。
translation: 
Officials fear his power, but others cherish his benefits.
A few years later, he was removed from his official position for breaking the law.
Zhu Hui was very upright as an official and was disliked by his superiors. He was impeached many times.
Since going to Linhuai, he has been living in Yeze, living in civilian clothes and eating a vegetarian diet. He has not interacted with the town. The township party ridiculed him for not being different from the others.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, there was a great famine in Nanyang, and rice was worth more than a thousand dollars per stone. Zhu Hui dispersed all his family property and distributed it to the poor and weak in his clan and hometown, and all the villagers and clansmen joined him.
At first, Zhang Kansu, a native of Zhu Hui's county, had a name. He once saw Zhu Hui in Taixue and thought highly of him. He made friends with Zhu Hui and held Zhu Hui's arm and said, "I want to entrust my wife to Zhu Hui."
Zhu Hui thought Zhang Kan was his ancestor and did not dare to answer him. They never met again.
After Zhang Kan's death, Zhu Hui heard that his wife was poor, so he went to see her in person and provided generous relief to them.
Zhu Hui's youngest son Zhu Jie felt strange and asked: "My lord does not make friends with Zhang Kan. I have never heard of it in my life. My descendants feel strange."
Zhu Hui said: Zhang Kan once said something about a confidant, and I have long remembered it.
Zhu Hui also had a good friendship with Chen Yi from the same county. Chen Yi died early and had a posthumous son, Chen You. Zhu Hui often sympathized with him.
When Situ Huanyu became the governor of Nanyang, he called Zhu Hui's son Zhu Pian as an official. Zhu Hui dismissed Zhu Pian and recommended Chen You.
Huan Yu sighed very much, so he summoned Chen You.
Such is his righteousness.
During the Yuanhe period, Suzong went on a hunting tour, told the Nanyang prefect to ask about Zhu Hui's daily life, and summoned Zhu Hui to serve as a minister.
In the middle of the year, he moved to Taishan Prefecture.
Zhu Hui asked Shangshu to stay in China, and the imperial edict agreed.
So he wrote a letter to talk about politics and tell secrets, which was deeply praised and adopted.
The imperial edict said: This is a good person who makes up for the shortcomings of the public and does not impair the quality of innocence.
The common officials are obedient, obedient, have no ambition to advance, but have no thought of retreat, and worry for a long time.
Only what I say now suits my wish.
Please encourage me, sir!
At this time, grain prices were high, county officials were short of funds, and the court was very anxious.
Shangshu Zhang Lin wrote: The reason why grain is expensive is because money is cheap.
You can seal off the money as much as possible, and use cloth and silk as rent, so that it can be used by the whole world.
Salt is also an urgently needed item in food. Although it is expensive, people cannot do without it, so it can be sold by the officials.
We should also buy treasures and harvest their benefits through the exchanges of officials in Jiaozhi and Yizhou. This is the so-called method of losing all during the reign of Emperor Wu.
So an edict was issued to the ministers for discussion.
Zhu Hui reported that Zhang Lin's plan was not feasible, so the matter was settled.
Later, some of the presenters repeated Zhang Lin's proposal and thought it would be beneficial to the country. The emperor agreed and the edict was implemented.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
晖复独奏曰： 王制，天子不言有无，诸侯不言多少，禄食之家不与百姓争利。
今均输之法与贾贩无异，盐利归官，则下人穷怨，布帛为租，则吏多奸盗，诚非明主所当宜行。
帝卒以林等言为然，得晖重议，因发怒，切责诸尚书。
晖等皆自系狱。
三日，诏敕出之。
曰： 国家乐闻驳议，黄发无愆，诏书过耳，何故自系？
晖因称病笃，不肯复署议。
尚书令以下惶怖，谓晖曰： 今临得谴让，奈何称病，其祸不细！
晖曰： 行年八十，蒙恩得在机密，当以死报。
若心知不可而顺旨雷同，负臣子之义。
今耳目无所闻见，伏待死命。
遂闭口不复言。
诸尚书不知所为，乃共劾奏晖。
帝意解，寝其事。
后数日，诏使直事郎问晖起居，太医视疾，太官赐食。
晖乃起谢，复赐钱十万，布百匹，衣十领。
后迁为尚书令，以老病乞身，拜骑都尉，赐钱二十万。
和帝即位，窦宪北征匈奴，晖复上疏谏。
顷之，病卒
子颉，修儒术，安帝时至陈相。
颉子穆。
穆字公叔。
年五岁，便有孝称。
父母有病，辄不饮食，差乃复常。
及壮耽学，锐意讲诵，或时思至，不自知亡失衣冠，颠队坑岸。
其父常以为专愚，几不知数马足。
穆愈更精笃。
初举孝廉。
顺帝末，江淮盗贼群起，州郡不能禁。
或说大将军梁冀曰： 朱公叔兼资文武，海内奇士，若以为谋主，贼不足平也。
冀亦素闻穆名，乃辟之，使典兵事，甚见亲任。
及桓帝即位，顺烈太后临朝，穆以冀势地亲重，望有以扶持王室，因推灾异，奏记，以劝戒冀曰：穆伏念明年丁亥之岁，刑德合于乾位，《易》经龙战之会，其文曰： 龙战于野，其道穷也。
谓阳道将胜而阴道负也。
今年九月天气郁冒，五位四侯连失正气，此互相明也。
translation: 
Zhu Hui then soloed and said: In the royal system, the emperor does not care about whether there is anything, the princes do not care about how much, and the officials do not compete with the people for profits.
Today's method of equalizing losses is no different from that of merchants. If salt and profits are returned to the officials, the people will be poor and urgent. If cloth is rented, many officials will cause trouble. It is indeed not a method that should be implemented by the Ming Dynasty.
The emperor finally thought that what Zhang Lin and others said was right. After Zhu Hui reconsidered, he became angry and blamed the ministers.
Zhu Hui and others asked themselves to be imprisoned.
Three days later, the imperial edict pardoned them.
The edict said: The country is willing to listen to different opinions. The veterans are not at fault. The edict is wrong. Why do you ask yourself to go to jail?
Zhu Hui then claimed that he was too ill and refused to participate in political discussions anymore.
The minister ordered the following people to be frightened, and said to Zhu Hui: Now that we are facing criticism, why do we claim to be ill and not come out? The disaster is not small!
Zhu Hui said, "I am already eighty years old. I have received the emperor's favor in secret, so I should repay him with death."
If you know it is impossible but follow the will, you will have the meaning of being a minister.
Today I hear nothing and see nothing, just wait and die.
So he kept silent and stopped talking.
The ministers didn't know what he was doing, so they impeached Zhu Hui together.
The emperor understood what everyone meant and would not pursue the matter further.
A few days later, the imperial edict Zhishilang asked about Zhu Hui's daily life, sent an imperial doctor to treat his illness, and the imperial official gave him food.
Zhu Hui then stood up to thank him and gave him another hundred thousand pieces of money, a hundred pieces of cloth, and ten sets of clothes.
Later, Zhu Hui was promoted to Shangshu Ling. Zhu Hui requested to retire because of his old age and illness. He was appointed as the Cavalry Captain and was given 200,000 yuan.
Emperor He came to the throne, Dou Xian went north to conquer the Xiongnu, and Zhu Hui went to Shu to give advice.
Soon, he died of illness.
His son Zhu Jie studied Confucianism and became prime minister at Chen during the reign of Emperor An.
Zhu Jie's son was Zhu Mu.
◆Zhu Mu's biography, Zhu Mu's courtesy name is Gongshu.
At the age of five, he had the reputation of being filial.
My parents are sick and often don't eat or drink. They only return to normal after recovering from the illness.
In the prime of life, it is easy to study and put more effort into speaking and reciting. Sometimes when thinking about a problem and concentrating on it, the clothes and clothes are missing without realizing it, and the team is in a state of confusion.
His father often thought that he was too attentive and almost stupid, and almost didn't know how to count the odds.
Zhu Mu studied his knowledge more carefully.
He began to be promoted as Xiaolian.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, thieves arose in the Jianghuai area, and the prefectures and counties could not stop them.
Someone advised the general Liang Ji: "Uncle Zhu is a versatile man in both civil and military affairs and a great scholar in the country. If you use him as the mastermind, it will not be difficult to put down the thieves."
Liang Ji also often heard about Zhu Mu's reputation, so he promoted him to be in charge of military affairs. He was very close and valued.
When Emperor Huan came to the throne and Empress Dowager Shunlie came to the court to listen to the government, Zhu Mu believed that Liang Ji was powerful and hoped that he could support the royal family. So he deduced the source of the disaster and wrote a memorial to advise Liang Ji: Mu thought that next year will be the year of Ding Hai, and the punishment and virtue will be in line with the Qian position. The "Book of Changes" talks about the Dragon War Meeting. Its text says: When dragons fight in the wild, their path is exhausted.
It means that the Yang Dao will win and the vagina will lose.
The weather in September this year is depressing, and the five four-year-olds have lost their integrity. This is to explain each other's problems.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫善道属阳，恶道属阴，若修正守阳，摧折恶类，则福从之矣。
穆每事不逮，所好唯学，传受于师，时有可试。
愿将军少察愚言，申纳诸儒，而亲其忠正，绝其姑息，专心公朝，割除私欲，广求贤能，斥远佞恶。
夫人君不可不学，当以天地顺道渐渍其心。
宜为皇帝选置师傅及侍讲者，得小心忠笃敦礼之士，将军与之俱入，参劝讲授，师贤法古，此犹倚南山坐平原也，谁能倾之！
今年夏，月晕房星，明年当有小厄。
宜急诛奸臣为天下所怨毒者，以塞灾咎，议郎、大夫之位，本以式序儒术高行之士，今多非其人，九卿之中，亦有乖其任者。惟将军察焉。
又荐种暠、栾巴等。
而明年严鲔谋立清河王蒜，又黄龙二见沛国。
冀无术学，遂以穆 龙战 之言为应，于是请暠为从事中郎，荐巴为议郎，举穆高第，为侍御史。
时，同郡赵康叔盛者，隐于武当山，清静不仕，以经传教授。
穆时年五十，乃奉书称弟子。
彼与草木俱朽，此与金石相倾，岂得同年而语，并日而谈哉？穆又著《绝交论》，亦矫时之作。
梁冀骄暴不悛，朝野嗟毒，穆以故吏，惧其衅积招祸，复奏记谏曰：古之明君，必有辅德之臣，规谏之官，下至器物，铭书成败，以防遗失。
故君有正道，臣有正路，从之如升堂，违之如赴壑。
今明将军地有申伯之尊，位为群公之首，一日行善，天下归仁，终朝为恶，四海倾覆。
顷者，官人俱匮，加以水虫为害。
京师诸官费用增多，诏书发调或至十倍。
各言官无见财，皆当出民，掠割剥，强令充足。
公赋既重，私敛又深。
translation: 
The good path belongs to yang, and the evil path belongs to yin. If you correct and guard the yang and destroy the evil, then blessings will follow.
Mu doesn't know how to do anything, he just likes to learn and teach it to his teachers, so he can try it out from time to time.
I hope the general will think about my foolish words, respect the opinions of Confucian scholars, be close to loyal and upright people, sever the ways of villains, concentrate on government affairs, cut off personal selfishness, seek talents widely, and reject the evil of villains.
To be a ruler, one must learn, and to be a minister, one must let heaven and earth follow the path of his heart.
It is necessary to appoint masters and lecturers for the emperor, and find some careful, loyal and polite people. The general will work with them to consult and teach, and teach the virtuous and ancient laws. This is like sitting on the plain with Nanshan Mountain. Who can topple it!
This summer, the moon will be dimmed by the house stars, and there will be minor disasters next year.
Some traitorous ministers who are hated by the world should be killed to put an end to the disaster. The positions of Yilang and Dafu were supposed to be filled by people who were highly skilled in Confucianism, but most of them are not occupied now. There are also those among the nine ministers who are not qualified, and I hope the general will investigate.
He also recommended Zhongfan, Luanba and others.
In the second year, Yan Tun planned to establish Qinghe King Suan, and Huanglong appeared twice in Peiguo.
Liang Ji was uneducated and incompetent, so he took Zhu Mu's words of "Longzhan" as a reality, so he invited Zhong vassal to be the minister, recommended Luan Ba ​​to be the Yilang, and promoted Zhu Mu to the highest rank to serve as the imperial censor.
At this time, Zhao Kangshusheng of the same county lived in seclusion in Wudang Mountain. He was quiet and did not want to be an official. He taught his disciples by passing on the classics.
Zhu Mu was fifty years old, so he was called his disciple by letter.
After Zhao Kang died, Zhu Mu mourned him like a teacher. His behavior of respecting morality and morality was admired by people at that time. Zhu Mu often felt that the customs at that time were shallow and he admired honesty and honesty, so he wrote "Lun on Chonghou". He wrote another article "On Severing Diplomacy", which was also a work to correct the shortcomings of the times.
Liang Ji was proud and tyrannical, and the government and the public were very resentful. Because Zhu Mu was an old official of Liang, he was afraid that he would accumulate evil and bring disaster, so he wrote a letter to admonish: A wise monarch in ancient times must have virtuous ministers to support virtues, officials to regulate and admonish, and down to the utensils, inscriptions of success and failure to prevent mistakes.
Therefore, the ruler has the right way, and the ministers have the right way. Following it is like ascending to the throne, and violating it is like going to hell.
Now in the land of General, there is the honor of Uncle Shen, who is at the head of the group of princes. If he does good deeds one day, the world will obey him, but if he does bad deeds all the time, the world will suffer.
Recently, officials and people have been in short supply, caused by floods and insect pests.
The expenses of officials in the capital increased, and the number of edicts issued sometimes reached ten times.
Everyone said that the officials had no money and were paid by the people. They resorted to plundering and exploiting to force orders to meet the requirements.
Public gifts were originally very heavy, but private exploitation was quite heavy.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
牧守长吏，多非德选，贪聚无，遇人如虏，或绝命于楚之下，或自贼于迫切之求。
又掠夺百姓，皆托之尊府。
遂令将军结怨天下，吏人酸毒，道路叹嗟。
昔秦政烦苛，百姓土崩，陈胜奋臂一呼，天下鼎沸，而面谀之臣，犹言安耳。
讳恶不悛，卒至亡灭。
昔永和之末，纲纪少弛，颇失人望。
四五岁耳，而财空户散，下有离心。
马免之徒乘敝而起，荆扬之间几成大患。
幸赖顺烈皇后初政清静，内外同力，仅乃讨定。
今百姓戚戚，困于永和，内非仁爱之心可得容忍，外非守国之计所宜久安也。
夫将相大臣，均体元首，共舆而驰，同舟而济，舆倾舟覆，患实共之。
岂可以去明即昧，履危自安，主孤时困，而莫之恤乎！
宜时易宰守非其人者，减省第宅园池之费，拒绝郡国诸所奉送。
内以自明，外解人惑，使挟奸之吏无所依托，司察之臣得尽耳目。
宪度既张，远迩清壹，则将军身尊事显，德无穷。
天道明察，无言不信，惟垂省览。
冀不纳，而纵放日滋，遂复赂遗左右，交通宦者，任其子弟、宾客以为州郡要职。
穆又奏记极谏，冀终不悟。
报书云： 如此，仆亦无一可邪？
穆言切，然亦不甚罪也。
永兴元年，河溢，漂害人庶数十万户，百姓荒馑，流移道路。
冀州盗贼尤多，故擢穆为冀州刺史。
州人有宦者三人为中常侍，并以檄谒穆。
穆疾之，辞不相见。
冀部令长闻穆济河，解印绶去者四十余人。
及到，奏劾诸郡，至有自杀者。
以威略权宜，尽诛贼渠帅。
举劾权贵，或乃死狱中。
translation: 
Most of the local shepherds and chief officials were not strictly selected people. They were greedy and treated everyone like prisoners. Some people died under beatings and torture, and some were forced to commit suicide.
In addition, officials plundered the people, all in the name of the government.
So the generals complained to the world, the officials were bitter and bitter, and the roads were full of sighs.
In the past, the politics of the Qin Dynasty were troubled and the people were in disarray. Chen Sheng raised his arms and shouted, and the whole world was abuzz, but the ministers who tried to please him in person said that everything was peaceful.
If you keep taboo on your evil deeds and do not change them, you will perish.
In the past, in the last years of Yonghe, the rules and regulations were slightly relaxed, which was quite disappointing.
In four or five years, the wealth is empty and the household is scattered, and there is a sense of disunity.
Ma Sen's followers took advantage of the situation and almost caused serious trouble between Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
Fortunately, Queen Shunlie had a peaceful administration in the early days and worked together internally and externally to bring peace.
Now the people are worried that the difficulties are greater than everlasting peace. Internally, it is not tolerated by a benevolent heart, and externally, it is not suitable for the long-term peace of the country.
The generals, ministers, ministers, and the head of state are one body. They ride in the same car and go out to sea in the same boat. If the car capsizes and the ship sinks, we will suffer hardships together.
Is it possible to let go of light and darkness, take risks, be alone and trapped, and no one comes to save you?
Incompetent people should be replaced in time, the cost of houses and gardens should be reduced, and the property donated by the county should be rejected.
It is self-explanatory internally and resolves people's doubts externally, so that the corrupt officials who kidnap people have no support, and the supervisory officials can fulfill their responsibilities as eyes and ears.
Once the laws are established and the laws are kept clear far and near, then the general will show his respect for his actions and his virtues will shine forever in future generations.
The way of heaven is clear and I don’t believe it. I hope you will read it carefully.
Liang Ji did not adopt it, but became even more indulgent. He also accepted gifts and bribes from left and right, had close contacts with the eunuchs, and appointed his children and guests to important positions in the state and county.
Zhu Mu wrote another letter to remonstrate, but Liang Ji never realized it.
Liang Ji reported a book and said: Doesn't this benefit me?
Although Zhu Mu spoke sincerely, he did not think he was guilty.
In the first year of Yongxing, the Yellow River swelled, hundreds of thousands of households were affected by floods, and the people were starved and displaced.
There were more thieves in Jizhou, so Zhu Mu was promoted to be the governor of Jizhou.
The people of Jizhou had three eunuchs who served as regular attendants and visited Zhu Mu with letters of appeal.
Zhu Mu hated them and refused to see them.
When the commander of the Ji Ministry heard that Zhu Mu had crossed the river, more than forty people took off their seals and ribbons and left.
When Zhu Mu took office, he impeached all the counties, and some of them committed suicide.
Zhu Mu used his might and expediency to kill all the bandit leaders.
The powerful were impeached, and some died in prison.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
有宦者赵忠丧父，归葬安平，僭为玙璠、玉匣、偶人。
穆闻之，下郡案验。
吏畏其严明，遂发墓剖棺，陈尸出之，而收其家属。
帝闻大怒，征穆诣廷尉，输作左校。
太学书生刘陶等数千人诣阙上书讼穆曰：伏见施刑徒朱穆，处公忧国，拜州之日，志清奸恶。
诚以常待贵宠，父兄子弟布在州郡，竞为虎狼，噬食小人，故穆张理天网，补缀漏目，罗取残祸，以塞天意。
由是内官咸共恚疾，谤讟烦兴，谗隙仍作，极其刑谪，输作左校。
天下有识，皆以穆同勤禹、稷而被共、鲧之戾，若死者有知，则唐帝怒于崇山，重华忿于苍墓矣。
当今中官近习，窃持国柄，手握王爵，口含天宪，运赏则使饿隶富于季孙，呼则令伊、颜化为桀、跖。
而穆独亢然不顾身害。
非恶荣而好辱，恶生而好死也，徒感王纲之不摄，惧天网之久失，故竭心怀忧，为上深计。
臣愿黥首系趾，代穆校作。
帝览其秦，乃赦之。
穆居家数年，在朝诸公多有相推荐者，于是征拜尚书。
穆既深疾宦官，及在台阁，旦夕共事，志欲除之。
乃上疏曰： 案汉故事，中常侍参选士人。
建武以后，乃悉用宦者。
自延平以来，浸益贵盛，假貂珰之饰，处常伯之任，天朝政事，一更其手，权倾海内，宠贵无极，子弟亲戚，并荷荣任，故放滥骄溢，莫能禁御。
凶狡无行之徒，媚以求官，恃势怙宠之辈，渔食百姓，穷破天下，空竭小人。
愚臣以为可悉罢省，遵复往初，率由旧章，更选海内清淳之士，明达国体者，以补其处。
即陛下可为尧、舜之君，众僚皆为稷、契之臣，兆庶黎萌蒙被圣化矣。
帝不纳。
后穆因进见，口复陈曰： 臣闻汉家旧典，置侍中、中常侍各一人，省尚书事，黄门侍郎一人，传发书奏，皆用姓族。
自和熹太后以女主称制，不接公卿，乃以阉人为常侍，小黄门通命两宫。
自此以来，权倾人主，穷困天下。
宜皆罢遣，博选耆儒宿德，与参政事。
帝怒，不应。
穆伏不肯起。
左右传出，良久乃趋而去。
translation: 
There was an eunuch named Zhao Zhong who died of his father and returned to Anping for burial. He was good at making jade boxes and puppets to be buried with him.
Zhu Mu heard about it and went to the county to examine the case.
The officials were afraid of Zhu's strictness, so they dug the tomb, dissected the coffin, laid out the body, and arrested his family members.
The emperor was furious after hearing this and summoned Zhu Mu to the Tingwei, where he was defeated by Zuo Xiao.
Thousands of people, including Liu Tao, a scholar from Taixue, went to the court to file a lawsuit against Mu Dao: "When I saw the torturer Zhu Mu, I stood on the public side and was worried about national affairs. On the day of worship, I was determined to eliminate the evildoers."
However, the ministers relied on their nobles and favors, and their fathers, brothers, and sons spread across the states and counties, vying to become tigers and wolves, devouring the villains. Therefore, Zhu Mu set up a sky net to mend leaks and capture the harmed people to thwart God's will.
As a result, all the internal officials were filled with hatred. They slandered and annoyed Xing, and continued to make slanderous remarks. They were severely punished and banished, and he was defeated as a leftist school.
All knowledgeable people in the world believe that Zhu Muqin was harmed by Gonggong and Gun when he was with Yu and Ji. If the deceased knew about it, then Emperor Tang would be angry at Chongshan and Emperor Shun would be angry at Cangwu.
At that time, the middle-ranking officials approached the emperor, stole the power of the country, held the king's title in their hands, and spoke of the constitution of heaven. They used rewards to make the hungry officials richer than Ji Sun, and used punishments to make Yi Yin and Yan Hui become Xia Jie and Tao Zhi.
But Zhu Mu was alone and arrogant, regardless of his own harm.
It's not that he hates glory but loves humiliation, hates life but loves death, but he feels Wang Gang's lack of persistence and is afraid that the Skynet will be lost for a long time, so he is worried and making long-term plans for the emperor.
I am willing to be punished by having my head tattooed and my toes tied, so that I can edit it in Zhu Mu's place.
The emperor read the memorial and pardoned Zhu Mu.
Zhu Mu lived at home for several years. Many of the princes in the court recommended him to him, so he worshiped him as minister.
Zhu Mu hated eunuchs deeply. After arriving at Taige, he worked with them morning and night, determined to get rid of them.
So Shang Shudao said: According to the old rules of the Han Dynasty, the ministers were often invited to participate in the selection of scholars.
After the founding of the military, eunuchs were all used.
Since Yanping, they have gradually become more noble and prosperous. They wear fake mink clothes and have important responsibilities as servants. Once the political affairs of the celestial dynasty are in their hands, they have overwhelming power. There is no limit to their favor. Their children and relatives are all shouldering heavy responsibilities. Therefore, they are overflowing with arrogance and no one can stop it.
A ruthless, cunning person who seeks official status by flattering others, relying on the power of his parents' favor, preying on the common people, depriving the world of poverty, and devouring villains.
The foolish minister thought that all these people could be dismissed from the province, restored to the original state, according to the old rules, and more honest and honest people in the country and people who understood the state system could be selected to supplement their positions.
Your Majesty can become the king of Yao and Shun, all officials will be ministers of Ji, and millions of people will be sanctified.
The emperor did not accept it.
Later, Zhu Muyin came to see him and stated: I heard that in the old Han Dynasty, there was a minister and a regular minister to review the affairs of the minister. There was also a minister of Huangmen to pass on the books and memorials, and quoted the famous scholars among the family.
Since the Empress Dowager Hexi has been addressed as a heroine, she has not received any ministers, and has used eunuchs as regular attendants. The Xiaohuang Gate communicates with the two palaces.
Since then, the power of eunuchs has been overthrown by human masters, making the world poor.
They should all be dismissed and senior Confucians and virtuous people should be selected to participate in political affairs.
The emperor was furious and refused to agree.
Zhu Mu fell to the ground and refused to get up.
Orders were sent out from left to right, but it took a long time for them to all come together.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
自此中官数因事称诏诋毁之。
穆素刚，不得意，居无几，愤懑发疽。
延熹六年，卒，时年六十四。
禄仕数十年，蔬食布衣，家无余财。
公卿共表穆立节忠清，虔恭机密，守死善道，宜蒙旌宠。
策诏褒述，追赠益州太守。
所著论、策、奏、教、书、诗、记、嘲，凡二十篇。
穆前在冀州，所辟用皆清德长者，多至公卿、州郡。
子野，少有名节，仕至河南君。
汉兴称王阳、贡禹、陈遵、张竦，中世有廉范、庆鸿、陈重、雷义云。乐恢字伯奇，京兆长陵人也。
父亲，为县吏，得罪于令，收将杀之。
恢年十一，常俯伏寺门，昼夜号泣。
令闻而矜之，即解出亲。
恢长好经学，事博士焦永，永为河东太守，恢随之官，闭庐精诵，不交人物。
后永以事被考，诸弟子皆以通关被系，恢独然不污于法，遂笃志为名儒。
性廉直介立，行不合己者，虽贵不与交。
信阳侯阴就数致礼请恢，恢绝不答。
后仕本郡吏，太守坐法诛，故人莫敢往，恢独奔丧行服，坐以抵罪。
归，复为功曹，选举不阿，请托无所容。
同郡杨政数众毁恢，后举政子为孝廉，由是乡里归之。
辟司空牟融府。
会蜀郡太守第五伦代融为司空，恢以与伦同郡，不肯留，荐颍川杜安而退。
诸公多其行，连辟之，遂皆不应。
后征拜议郎。
会车骑将军窦宪出征匈奴，恢数上书谏争，朝廷称其忠。
入为尚书仆射。
是时河南尹王调、洛阳令李阜与窦宪厚善，纵舍自由。
恢劾奏调、阜，并及司隶校尉。
诸所刺举，无所回避，贵戚恶之。
宪弟夏阳侯瑰欲往候恢，恢谢不与通。
宪兄弟放纵，而忿其不附己。
妻每谏恢曰： 昔人有容身避害，何必以言取怨？
恢汉曰： 吾何忍素餐立人之朝乎！
遂上疏谏曰： 臣闻百王之失，皆由权移于下。
translation: 
From then on, Zhongguan repeatedly issued edicts to slander Zhu Mu.
Zhu Mu was by nature upright and unhappy. Not long after he returned home, he developed ulcers out of anger.
Yanxi died in the sixth year of his reign at the age of sixty-four.
After working as an official for decades, he lived on a vegetarian diet and lived in ordinary clothes, and his family had no money left.
The ministers jointly stated that Zhu Mu should be favored because he was loyal to the Qing Dynasty, pious and respectful of secrets, and upheld the right path to death.
The imperial court issued an edict and praised it, and presented it posthumously to the governor of Yizhou.
He wrote a total of twenty articles, including treatises, strategies, memorials, teachings, books, poems, notes, and ridicules.
When Zhu Mu was in Jizhou before, the people he promoted were all elders of Qingde, and most of them became public ministers and prefectures and counties.
His son Zhu Ye, who was rarely famous, served as an official in Yin, Henan.
At first, Zhu Mu's father died. Zhu Mu and other Confucian scholars followed the ancient meaning and gave him the posthumous name Mr. Zhenxuan. After Zhu Mu's death, Cai Yong shared his virtues with his disciples and was posthumously named Mr. Wenzhong. ◆The biography of Le Hui, whose courtesy name is Boqi, was from Changling, Jingzhao.
My father, Leqin, was a county official. He offended the county magistrate and was arrested and executed.
Lehui was eleven years old. He often fell down at the temple gate and cried day and night.
The county magistrate heard this and took pity on him, and immediately released Leqin.
When Lehui grew up, he was fond of studying Confucian classics and took Dr. Jiao Yong as his teacher. When Jiao Yong became the governor of Hedong, Le Hui followed Jiao to his official residence, where he studied behind closed doors and did not interact with others.
Later, Jiao Yong was investigated for his crimes, and his students were all arrested for opening his joints. Le Hui, whose innocence was not contaminated by the law, decided to become a famous Confucian.
If Lehui is upright and upright by nature, but his behavior does not suit his own will, he will not be friends with him even if he is very powerful.
Hou Yin of Xinyang sent gifts to Hui many times to please Hui, but Hui never responded.
Later, when Le Hui became a minor official in the county, the prefect was killed for breaking the law. Old friends did not dare to interact with each other, so Le Hui went to the funeral alone to pay for his crime.
After he came back, he did meritorious deeds again, and the election was fair and unfair. Please ask for help.
Yang Zheng of the same county slandered Le Hui several times in public. Later, Le Hui still promoted Yang Zheng's son as a filial and honest man, and the whole village obeyed him.
Later he was promoted to Sikong Mourong Mansion.
It happened that the fifth Lun, the governor of Shu County, replaced Mou Rong as Sikong. Lehui thought that Lun was from the same county and refused to stay in the post. He recommended Du An of Yingchuan and resigned himself.
Many princes praised his conduct, and he was summoned several times but failed to respond.
Later, the imperial court recruited Le Hui to serve as a minister.
At the time when Dou Xian, the chariot general, was on an expedition against the Huns, Le Hui wrote several letters to remonstrate with him, and the court said he was loyal.
He became a servant of Shangshu.
At this time, Henan Yinwangdiao and Luoyang ordered Li Fu and Dou Xian to have a close friendship and give up their freedom.
Yue Hui impeached Wang Tiao and Li Fu, and also involved Sili Xiaowei.
He did not evade the people he exposed and reported, so the nobles hated him.
Dou Xian's younger brother, Xia Yanghou Dou Wangxiang, wanted to greet Le Hui, but Hui declined and would not associate with him.
Dou Xian's brother indulged in indulgence, but he hated Le Hui for not agreeing with him.
Le Hui's wife said to Le Hui: In ancient times, there were people who took shelter to avoid harm. Why should you complain with your words?
Le Hui sighed: How can I bear to eat free rice and stand in someone else's court?
So Shangshu remonstrated: "I heard that the faults of hundreds of kings were all caused by their falling in power."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
大臣持国，常以势盛为咎。
伏念先帝，圣德未永，早弃万国。
陛下富于春秋，纂承大业，诸舅不宜干正王室，以示天下之私。
经曰： 天地乖互，众物夭伤。
君臣失序，万人受殃。
政失不救，其极不测。
方今之宜，上以义自割，下以谦自引。
四舅可长保爵土之荣，皇太后永无惭负宗庙之忧，诚策之上者也。
书奏不省。
时，窦太后临朝，和帝未亲万机，恢以意不得行，乃称疾气骸骨。
诏赐钱，太医视疾。
恢荐任城郭均、成阳高凤，而遂称笃。
拜骑都尉，上书辞谢曰： 仍受厚恩，无以报效。
夫政在大夫，孔子所疾；世卿持权，《春秋》以戒。
圣人恳恻，不虚言也。
近世外戚富贵，必有骄溢之败。
今陛下思慕山陵，未遑政事；诸舅宠盛，权行四方。
若不能自损，诛罚必加。
臣寿命垂尽，临死竭愚，惟蒙留神。
诏听上印绶，乃归乡里。
窦宪因是风厉州郡迫胁，恢遂饮药死。
弟子缞绖挽者数百人，众庶痛伤之。
后窦氏诛，帝始亲事，恢门生何融等上书陈恢忠节，除子己为郎中。
何敞字文高，扶风平陵人也。
其先家于汝阴。
六世祖比干，学《尚书》于朝错，武帝时为廷尉正，与张汤同时。
汤持法深而比干务仁恕，数与汤争，虽不能尽得，然所济活者以千数。
后迁丹阳都尉，因徙居平陵。
敞父宠，建武中为千乘都尉，以病免，遂隐居不仕。
敞性公正。
自以趣舍不合时务，每请召，常称疾不应。
元和中，辟太尉宋由府，由待以殊礼。
敞论议高。常引大体，多所匡正。
司徒袁安亦深敬重之。
translation: 
Ministers presiding over state affairs are often blamed for the prosperity of the country.
Thinking of the late emperor, his saintliness was not long enough and he abandoned all nations long ago.
Your Majesty is in his prime years and is inheriting a great cause. Your uncles should not interfere with the royal family to show the selfishness of the world.
The scriptures say: Heaven and earth behave in harmony with each other, and all things die prematurely.
If the ruler and his ministers are out of order, thousands of people will suffer.
If political mistakes are not corrected, unexpected disasters will occur.
The current measures should be based on righteousness at the top, and modesty at the bottom.
The fourth uncle can protect the honor of the nobility and the emperor forever, and the empress dowager will never have to worry about being ashamed of the ancestral temple. This is the best policy.
The book was ignored.
At that time, Empress Dowager Dou was in charge of the government, and Emperor He did not personally intervene in state affairs. Le Hui thought that his opinions were not accepted, so he claimed illness and asked to retire.
The imperial court issued an edict to grant money and send imperial doctors to treat patients.
Lehui recommended Ren Chengguojun and Chengyang Gaofeng, but he said he was seriously ill.
The imperial court worshiped Lehui as the Cavalry Commander, and Lehui wrote a letter of thanks, saying: "I still received a great favor, but I can't repay it."
Confucius hated the fact that politics fell into the hands of officials; when Shiqing held great power, the Spring and Autumn Annals warned against this.
What the saint worries about is not empty words.
In recent times, when relatives are rich and powerful, they will inevitably suffer from arrogance.
Today, Your Majesty is obsessed with the mountains and mausoleums and has no involvement in political affairs. His uncles favor him and his power extends to all directions.
If you cannot reduce your own losses, punishment will surely come.
My life is about to end, and I will try my best to be loyal before my death, hoping to be noticed.
After hearing the imperial edict, he returned to his hometown.
Dou Xian therefore ordered the prefectures and counties to persecute Le Hui, and Le Hui drank the medicine and died.
Hundreds of disciples were buried in mourning clothes, and the people were grieved.
Later, the Dou family was killed and the emperor began to rule personally. He Rong, one of Le Hui's disciples, and others wrote a letter stating Le Hui's loyalty, and the imperial court granted his son Le Ji the title of doctor.
◆Biography of He Chang, He Chang was a native of Pingling, Fufeng.
His ancestor's home is in Ruyin.
Bigan, the sixth generation ancestor, studied Shangshu by mistake from Chao Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Wu, he served as Tingweizheng at the same time as Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang upheld the Dharma deeply and was more benevolent and forgiving than Gan. He fought with Tang several times, and although he could not win all of them, he helped thousands of people live.
Later he was promoted to Danyang Captain. So he moved to Pingling.
He Chang's father, He Chong, served as a captain of Qiancheng during the Jianwu period. He was dismissed from his post due to illness, so he lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official.
He Chang's character advocates justice.
He thinks that his hobbies are not suitable for the current affairs. Whenever he is called upon, he often complains that he is ill.
During the Yuanhe period, he was appointed Taiwei Song Youfu, and Song You treated him with special etiquette.
He Chang's discussion was very high, and he often cited general ideas and made many corrections.
Situ Yuanan also respected him very much.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
是时京师及四方累有奇异鸟兽草木，言事者以为祥瑞。
敞通经传，能为天官，意甚恶之。
乃言于二公曰： 夫瑞应依德而至，灾异缘政而生。
故鸲鹆来巢，昭公有乾侯之厄；西狩获麟，孔子有两楹之殡。
海鸟避风，臧文祀之，君子讥焉。
今异鸟翔于殿屋，怪草生于庭际，不可不察。
由、安惧然不敢答，居无何而肃宗崩。
时，窦氏专政，外戚奢侈，赏赐过制，仓帑为虚。
敞奏记由曰：敞闻事君之义，进思尽忠，退思补过。
历观世主时臣，无不各欲为化，垂之无穷，然而平和之政万无一者，盖以圣主贤臣不能相遭故也。
今国家秉聪明之弘道，明公履晏晏之纯德，君臣相合，天下翕然，治平之化，有望于今。
孔子曰： 如有用我者，三年有成。
今明公视事，出入再期，宜当克已，以酬四海之心。
《礼》，一谷不升，则损服彻膳。
天下不足，若已使然。
而比年水旱，人不收获，凉州缘边，家被凶害，男子疲于战陈，妻女劳于转运，老幼孤寡，叹息相依，又中州内郡，公私屈竭，此实损膳节用之时，国恩覆载，赏赍过度，但闻腊赐，自郎官以上，公卿王侯以下，至于空竭帑藏，损耗国资。
寻公家之用，皆百姓之力。
明君赐赍，宜有品制，忠臣受赏，亦应有度，是以夏禹玄圭，周公束帛。
今明公位尊任重，责深负大，上当匡正纲纪，下当济安元元，岂但空空无违而已哉！
宜先正已以率群下，还所得赐，因陈得失，奏王侯就国，除苑囿之禁，节省浮费，赈恤穷孤，则恩泽下暢，黎庶悦豫，上天聪明，必有立应。
使百姓歌诵，史官纪德，岂但子文逃禄，公仪退食之比哉！
由不能用。
translation: 
At this time, there were many strange birds, animals, and plants in the capital and all around, which were regarded as auspicious signs by those who spoke about them.
He Chang is well versed in scriptures and can be appointed as a heavenly official, which means he is very disgusting.
So he said to the Second Duke: Auspiciousness should come according to virtue, and disasters should also arise due to politics.
Therefore, when the Qu bird and the eagle came to its nest, Duke Zhao was in trouble with the Marquis of Qian; when he hunted to the west and caught Lin, Confucius was buried with two couplets.
Seabirds take shelter from the wind, Zang Wen worships them, and gentlemen ridicule them.
Nowadays, strange birds are flying in the palace room, and strange grass is growing in the courtyard. You must pay attention to it.
Song You and Yuan An showed fear and did not dare to answer. Soon Suzong died.
At that time, the Dou family was under the dictatorship, and the relatives were extravagant. The rewards exceeded the regulations, and the money was empty.
He Chang reported to Song You: I heard that the meaning of serving the king is to be loyal when you think about it and to make up for your mistakes when you retreat.
Looking at the lords and ministers of the past dynasties, they all want to make a difference and make it permanent. However, there is no such thing as a peaceful government. This is probably because the saintly lords and virtuous ministers cannot meet together.
Now the country is adhering to the wise path, the wise dukes are practicing the pure virtue of gentleness, the monarch and his ministers are in harmony, the world is in order, and peace is achieved. Now there is great hope.
Confucius said: If you use me, you will be successful in three years.
Now that the Ming Gong is in charge of matters, he has been in and out for two years. He should restrain himself in order to reward the people of the world.
"Book of Rites" says that if the harvest is not good one year, the king will reduce his clothing and food.
The lack of people in the world seems to have been caused by oneself.
But now there have been years of floods and droughts, and people have had no harvest. In the areas on the edge of Jingzhou, the Western Qiang have invaded and caused harm. Men are tired of fighting, women are tired of transportation, old and young, orphans and widows, sigh and depend on each other for survival. In addition, in the provinces and counties, public and private affairs are exhausted. This is the time to reduce food and save money. The country's favor covers the world, and rewards are excessive. It is said that only one reward is given in the twelfth lunar month, ranging from Langguan and above, to Gongqing and Prince below. As for using empty money to hide, it is a waste of national assets.
The public expenses are all paid for by the labor of the common people.
The rewards given by a wise king should be in good quality, and the rewards given to loyal ministers should also be limited. Therefore, Xia Yu used Xuan Gui and Zhou Gong received silk.
Nowadays, the Ming Dynasty has a high position and heavy responsibilities, deep responsibilities and great responsibilities. At one time, it is to correct the rules and regulations, and at the next time, it is to appease the people. Is it just empty and does not violate the imperial edict?
You should first set an example by setting an example for your subordinates, return the rewards you received, express your interests and losses, and ask the princes to return to their respective fiefdoms, remove the ban on the gardens, save unnecessary expenses, and provide relief to the poor orphans and widows in Xuetan. Then, if the favor is given, the people will be happy, and God will be wise, there will be immediate retribution.
Let the people sing praises of virtue and the historians record the virtues and policies. Is it possible that only Ziwen escapes his salary and Gongyi withdraws his food?
Song You cannot adopt it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
时齐殇王子都乡侯暢奔吊国忧，上书未报，侍中窦宪遂令人刺杀暢于城门屯卫之中，而主名不立。
敞又说由曰： 刘暢宗室肺府，茅土籓臣，来吊大忧，上书须报，亲在武卫，致此残酷。
奉宪之吏，莫适讨捕，踪迹不显，主名不立。
敞备数股肱，职典贼曹，故欲亲至发所，以纠其变，而二府以为故事三公不与贼盗。
昔陈平生于征战之世，犹知宰相之分，云 外镇四夷，内抚诸侯，使卿大夫各得其宜 。
今二府执事不深惟大义，惑于所闻，公纵奸慝，莫以为咎，惟明公运独见之明，昭然勿疑，敞不胜所见，请独奏案。
由乃许焉。
二府闻敞行，皆遣主者随之，于是推举具得事实，京师称其正。
以高第拜侍御史。
时遂以窦宪为车骑将军，大发军击匈奴，而诏使者为宪弟笃、景并起邸第，兴造劳役，百姓愁苦。
敞上疏谏曰： 臣闻匈奴之为桀逆久矣。
平城之围，书之耻，此二辱者，臣子所为捐躯而必死，高祖、吕后忍怒还忿，舍而不诛。
伏惟皇太后秉文母之操，陛下履晏晏之姿，匈奴无逆节之罪，汉朝无可惭之耻，而盛春东作，兴动大役，元元怨恨，咸怀不悦。
而猥复为卫尉笃、奉车都尉景缮修馆第，弥街绝里，臣虽斗筲之人，诚窃怀怪，以为笃、景亲近贵臣，当为百僚表仪。
今众军在道，朝廷焦脣，百姓愁若，县官无用，而遽起大第，崇饰玩好，非所以垂令德，示无穷也。
宜且罢工匠，专忧北边，恤人之困。
书奏不省。
translation: 
At that time, Liu Chang, the Duxiang Marquis of Qi Shang, came to express his condolences to the country, but without reporting it, his servant Dou Xian sent someone to assassinate Liu Chang in the garrison at the city gate, but his name was not established.
He Chang also told Song You: A close relative of Liu Chang's clan and a minister of the Maotu vassal came to express his concern about the country's great worries. He wrote a letter to be reported. He was in the military guard and suffered this murderous attack.
Officials under the Constitution have no hope of catching the murderer. The traces are not obvious and the name of the murderer is not established.
I am considered an arm, and my job is to guard the thieves, so I want to go to the place where the trouble occurred and find out what happened. However, Situ Sikong thinks that according to the old practice, the prime minister will not participate in the theft case.
In the past, during the war years, Chen Ping still knew the duties of the prime minister. He said: "Suppress the foreign barbarians outside, and pacify the princes internally, so that the ministers and officials can each do what they want."
Now Situ, Sikong, and the deacons do not have a deep sense of righteousness, and are confused by what they have heard. They openly indulge the bad people, and no one is held accountable for their faults. Only Ming Gongyun has a unique vision, which is clear and unquestionable, and cannot be fully seen. Please give me a solo.
Song Youcai agreed.
When the two houses of Situ and Sikong heard about He Chang's actions, they both sent their master to know the thieves, Cao, to follow him. They then found out the specific facts, and the capital praised him for doing it properly.
He Chang worshiped Gao Di as his censor.
At that time, Dou Xian was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, and he mobilized troops to attack the Xiongnu. The envoys were Dou Du and Dou Jing, Dou Xian's younger brothers. They both established official residences and built labor services, which made the people suffer.
He Chang came up and remonstrated: "I heard that the Huns have been rebellious for a long time."
Emperor Gaozu's siege of Pingcheng, Empress Lu's daughter Manshu's humiliation, these two humiliations, the officials sacrificed their lives for these two humiliations and were bound to die, but Gaozu and Empress Lu endured their anger and returned their anger without giving up their lives.
Thinking of the Empress Dowager adhering to Wen Mu's integrity and Your Majesty's peaceful behavior, the Huns were not guilty of violating the moral integrity, and the Han Dynasty had no shame to be ashamed of. However, in the busy farming season of spring, when wars were launched and the people were resentful, they all felt unhappy.
However, Dou Du, the captain of the guard, and Dou Jing, the captain of the Fengche army, repaired the building and built a vast street. Although I was a young man, I felt strange, thinking that Dou Du and Dou Jing were close noble ministers and should set an example for all officials.
Now that the army is on the road, the court is in a hurry, the people are miserable, and the county magistrates are useless, but rushing to build big houses and decorate them for fun is not a way to show your virtue to future generations.
We should temporarily stop working as craftsmen, focus on the north, and sympathize with the poverty of the people.
No inspection is allowed when the book is played.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
后拜为尚书，复止封事曰：夫忠臣忧世，犯主严颜，讥刺贵臣，至以杀身灭家而犹为之者，何邪？
君臣义重，有不得已也。
臣伏见往事，国之危乱，家之将凶，皆有所由，较然易知。
昔郑武妾之幸叔段，卫庄公之宠州吁，爱而不都，终至凶戾。
由是观之，爱子若此，犹饥而食之以毒，适所以害之也。
伏见大将军宪，始遭大忧，公卿比奏，欲令典干国事。宪深执谦退，固辞盛位，恳恳勤勤，言之深至，天下闻之，莫不悦喜。
今逾年无几，大礼未终，卒然中改，兄弟专朝。
宪秉三军之重，笃、景总官卫之权，而虐用百姓，奢侈僭逼，诛戮无罪，肆心自快。
今者论议凶凶，咸谓叔段、州吁复生于汉。
臣观公卿怀持两端，不肯极言者，以为宪等若有匪懈之志，则己受吉甫褒申伯之功，如宪等陷于罪辜，则自取陈平、周勃顺吕后之权，终不以宪等吉凶为忧也。
臣敞区区，诚欲计策两安，绝其绵绵，塞其涓涓，上不欲令皇太后损文母之号，陛下有誓泉之讥，下使宪等得长保其福祐。
然臧获之谋，上安主父，下存主母，犹不免于严怒。
臣伏惟累祖蒙恩，至臣八世，复以愚陋，旬年之间，历显位，备机近，每念厚德，忽然忘生。
虽知言必夷灭，而冒死自尽者，诚不忍目见其祸而怀默苟全。
驸马都尉瑰，虽在弱冠，有不隐之忠，比请退身，愿抑家权。
可与参谋，听顺其意，诚宗庙至计，窦氏之福。
敞数切谏，言诸窦罪过，宪等深怨之。
时济南王康尊贵骄甚，宪乃白出敞为济南太傅。
敞至国，辅康以道义，数引法度谏正之，康敬礼焉。
岁余，迁汝南太守。
敞疾文俗吏以苛刻求当时名誉，故在职以宽和为政。
translation: 
Later, He Chang was appointed as the Minister, and was granted the title of Minister: "A loyal minister is worried about world affairs, offends the monarch's strict appearance, ridicules noble ministers, and ends up killing himself and destroying his family. But he is still doing it. Why?"
The righteousness between the king and his ministers is so important that it has to be like this.
I look at those past events. The country is in crisis and the family is in danger. There are reasons. The truth is obvious.
Once upon a time, Zheng Wujiang loved his uncle Duan Gong, and Duke Zhuang of Wei doted on his son Zhouxu. He loved him but did not teach him, and eventually became cruel.
From this point of view, loving your son like this is like giving poison to him when he is hungry, it is harming him.
General Dou Xian began to suffer from serious worries. The ministers petitioned him to take charge of state affairs. Dou Xian was very humble and resigned from his position. He spoke diligently and profoundly. Everyone in the world listened and no one was unhappy.
Now, a few years have passed, and the gift has not yet ended. Suddenly, the plan changes midway, and the brothers are in power.
Dou Xian was in charge of the three armies, while Dou Du and Dou Jing were in charge of the palace guards. They abused the people, were extravagant, and killed innocent people, which made them happy.
Nowadays, everyone is talking about whether Shu Duan or Zhou Xu was born in the Han Dynasty.
The ministers saw that the ministers were taking a wait-and-see attitude and were unwilling to speak frankly. They thought that if Xian and others had the will to work tirelessly, they would have received Jifu's praise for Shenbo's merits. If Xian and others fall into the abyss of sinfulness, then they should take the power of Chen Ping and Zhou Boshun and Empress Lu, and never worry about the good or bad fortune of Xian and others.
With my open heart, I really want to plan for the two sides, cut off the endless stream and prevent it from becoming a snare, stop the trickling stream from becoming a river, and prevent the Empress Dowager from damaging the title of Mother Wen. Your Majesty has not sworn to ridicule the underworld, so that Xian and others can maintain their happiness for a long time.
However, the slave's plan is to protect his master's father at the top and his mistress at the bottom, but he is not immune to severe anger.
I think of the favor I have received from my ancestors. I have been here for eight generations, and with my humble talents, I have been in power for ten years.
Even though he knew that speaking out would lead to death, he risked his life to speak out his loyal words, but he couldn't bear to see the disaster coming and kept silent and tried to save his life.
Although the Prince Consort was still twenty years old, he was unbearably loyal and asked to retire, thus suppressing his family power.
But consulting with him and listening to his opinions is indeed a clever way to preserve the ancestral temple and the Dou family's happiness.
He Chang earnestly remonstrated many times and told the sins of the Dou brothers. Dou Xian and others hated him very much.
At this time, King Liu Kang of Jinan was very proud, so Dou Xian proposed to make He Chang the Taifu of Jinan.
When He Chang arrived in Jinan, he assisted Liu Kang with moral principles and gave him advice and corrections several times. However, Liu Kang was very polite.
More than a year later, He Chang was promoted to the prefect of Runan.
He Chang hated the civil and secular officials who sought reputation for being harsh, so he used leniency and gentleness in his official duties.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
立春日，常召督邮还府，分遣儒术大吏案行属县，显孝悌有义行者。
及举冤狱，以《春秋》义断之。
是以郡中无怨声，百姓化其恩礼。
其出居者，皆归养其父母，追行丧服，推财相让者二百许人。
置立礼官，不任文吏。
又修理鲷阳旧渠，百姓赖其利，垦田增三万余顷。
吏人共刻石，颂敞功德。
及窦氏败，有司奏敞子与夏阳侯瑰厚善，坐免官。
永元十二年复征，三迁五官中郎将。
常忿疾中常侍蔡伦，伦深憾之。
元兴元年，敞以祠庙严肃，微疾不斋，后邓皇后上太傅禹冢，敞起随百官会，伦因奏敞祚病，坐抵罪。
卒于家。
translation: 
On the day of the beginning of spring, the governor was summoned back to the government, and Confucian officials were assigned to the county to commend those who were filial and righteous.
Judgment of unjust cases shall be based on the righteousness and law of the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Therefore, there was no voice of resentment in the county, and the people were influenced by the kindness.
Those who lived outside the country went home to support their parents. Those whose parents died were dressed in mourning, and there were more than 200 people who gave away their wealth.
Establish ritual officials but not civil servants.
The old Yutongyang canal was also repaired, which the people relied on for irrigation, and the cultivated land increased by more than 30,000 hectares.
Officials carved stones and erected monuments praising He Chang's merits.
Later, the Dou family failed, and a minister reported that He Chang's son had a close friendship with Xia Yanghou, so he was relieved of his official position.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan, he was recruited again and moved to Wugan Zhonglang general for three times.
He Chang often hated Cai Lun, the official servant of Zhongchang, and Lun deeply regretted it.
In the first year of Yuanxing, He Chang was not fasting because of the seriousness of the temple. Later, Empress Deng went to the tomb of Taifu Yuzhong, and He Chang went to the meeting with hundreds of officials. Cai Lun then played He Chang for pretending to be ill, so as to atone for the crime.
Died at home.


