Summary uses chunk [1]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
叔孙通作汉礼仪，因为奉常，诸弟子共定者，咸为选首，然后喟然兴于学。
然尚有干戈，平定四海，亦未皇庠序之事也。
孝惠、高后时，公卿皆武力功臣。
孝文时颇登用，然孝文本好刑名之言。
及至孝景，不任儒，窦太后又好黄、老术，故诸博士具官待问，未有进者。
汉兴，言《易》自淄川田生；言《书》自济南伏生；言《诗》，于鲁则申培公，于齐则辕固生，燕则韩太傅；言《礼》，则鲁高堂生；言《春秋》，于齐则胡毋生，于赵则董仲舒。
及窦太后崩，武安君田蚡为丞相，黜黄老、刑名百家之言，延文学儒者以百数，而公孙弘以治《春秋》为丞相，封侯，天下学士靡然乡风矣。
弘为学官，悼道之郁滞，乃请曰： 丞相、御史言：制曰 盖闻导民以礼，风之以乐。
婚姻者，居室之大伦也。
今礼废乐崩，朕甚愍焉，故详延天下方闻之士，咸登诸朝。
其令礼官劝学，讲议洽闻，举遗兴礼，以为天下先。
太常议，予博士弟子，崇乡里之化，以厉贤材焉。
谨与太常臧、博士平等议，曰：闻三代之道，乡里有教，夏曰校，殷曰庠，周曰序。
其劝善也，显之朝廷；其惩恶也，加之刑罚。
故教化之行也，建首善自京师始，由内及外。
今陛下昭至德，开大明，配天地，本人伦，劝学兴礼，崇化厉贤，以风四方，太平之原也。
古者政教未洽，不备其礼，请因旧官而兴焉。
为博士官置弟子五十人，复其身。
太常择民年十八以上、仪状端正者，补博士弟子。
郡国县官有好文学、敬长上、肃政教、顺乡里、出入不悖，所闻，令、相、长、丞上属所二千石。
二千石谨察可者，常与计偕，诣太常，得受业如弟子。
一岁皆辄课，能通一艺以上，补文学掌故缺；其高第可以为郎中，太常籍奏。
即有秀才异等，辄以名闻。其不事学若下材，及不能通一艺，辄罢之，而请诸能称者。
巨谨案诏书律令下者，明天人分际，通古今之谊，文章尔雅，训辞深厚，恩施甚美。
小吏浅闻，弗能究宣，亡以明布谕下。
以治礼掌故以文学礼义为官，迁留滞。
请选择其秩比二百石以上及吏百石通一艺以上补左右内史、太行卒史，比百石以下补郡太守卒史，皆各二人，边郡一人。
先用诵多者，不足，择掌故以补中二千石属，文学掌故补郡属，备员。
请著功令。
它如律令。
制曰： 可。
自此以来，公卿大夫士吏彬彬多文学之士矣。
translation: 
Shusun Tong created Han rituals and became a regular official. Those who participated in the formulation of the rituals among his disciples became the first choice, and then scholarship flourished.
However, there were still wars going on, and there was no time to establish the order to pacify the world.
During the reign of Xiaohui and Gaohou, the ministers were all heroes of military force.
Xiaowen made some progress in it, but Xiaowen originally liked the study of punishment and naming.
When he arrived at Xiaojing, Confucian scholars were not allowed to be employed. Empress Dowager Dou also liked Huang Lao's skills, so the doctors were waiting for official inquiries, but none of them were used.
When the Han Dynasty arose, Tiansheng from Zichuan taught "Yi"; Fusheng from Jinan taught "Book"; when it came to "Poetry", it was Shen Peigong in Lu, Yuan Gusheng in Qi, and Taifu Han in Yan; it was Lu Gaotang who taught "Li"; it was Hu Wusheng in Qi who taught "Spring and Autumn", and Dong Zhongshu in Zhao.
When the Empress Dowager Bao died, Wu'an Juntian Ju became the prime minister, rejecting the opinions of Huang Lao and Xing Ming, and employing hundreds of literary Confucian scholars. Gongsun Hong became the prime minister and made a marquis because of his study of "Spring and Autumn", and scholars all over the world followed suit.
Gongsun Hong, an academic official, was saddened by the decline of the Dao, so he wrote: The Prime Minister and the Censor said: "I heard that the people should be guided by etiquette and educated by music."
Marriage is the most important thing in the family.
Now that the rites and music have collapsed, I am very sad, so I have appointed all the wise and knowledgeable people in the world to serve in the imperial court.
The etiquette officials should be ordered to encourage learning, explain the meaning of scriptures, gain extensive knowledge, encourage people to relax, promote etiquette, and set an example for the world.
Taichang suggested that disciples should be awarded Ph.D.s and should be educated in the countryside to encourage talented people.
I would like to discuss this with Taichang Zang and Dr. Taichang on an equal footing: I heard that according to the Three Dynasties, there is a place for education in the countryside. Xia is called the school, Yin is called Xiang, and Zhou is called Xu.
Encourage good deeds and make them visible to the court; punish evil deeds and impose punishments.
Therefore, the implementation of education and the establishment of good deeds start from the capital, from the inside to the outside.
Now, Your Majesty has shown great virtue, opened up the Ming Dynasty, coordinated the heaven and the earth, based on human relations, encouraged learning and propriety, advocated enlightenment, encouraged talents, and educated the four directions. This is the origin of peace.
In ancient times, politics and religion were not widespread, and rituals were incomplete. Please use the old academic officials to raise it.
Fifty disciples were appointed for the doctorate officers to exempt them from corvee service.
Too often, people over the age of eighteen and well-groomed are chosen to supplement their Ph.D. disciples.
County magistrates of prefectures and counties love literature and classics, respect their superiors, respect politics and religion, obey the rules of the countryside, and do not violate etiquette when coming in and out. After hearing about this, the county magistrate, state minister, county magistrate, and county magistrate reported the two thousand stones they belonged to.
Er Qianshi carefully inspected the ones that he thought were acceptable, and went to Taichang with the recommended officials, so that they could receive their karma like disciples.
In the first year, everyone specializes in one subject, and can learn more than one art to fill the gap in literature and anecdotes; Gao Di can be a doctor, and Tai often compiles and selects the roster.
If there are extraordinary talents, they will be named separately. Those who are not knowledgeable and are not proficient in a certain skill will be exempted from qualifications, and those who are qualified will be asked.
The edicts and laws issued by Chen Jin'an distinguish the differences between heaven and man, communicate ancient and modern principles, are elegant and upright, have profound precepts, and are graceful.
The petty officials have little knowledge and knowledge, cannot propagate deeply, and cannot clearly issue instructions to the people.
Since officials who govern etiquette and knowledge are supposed to be educated and learn etiquette, they should promote the stagnant talents.
Please choose those whose salary is equivalent to more than 200 shi and who are proficient in more than 100 shi of official skills to supplement the internal history of the left and right, and those who are responsible for the general affairs. Those who are equivalent to less than 100 shi to supplement the history of the prefecture and governor of the county. There are two people from each county and one person from the border counties.
Those who recite a lot of sutras will be hired first. If there are not enough, anecdotes will be selected to make up for the two thousand stone attributes, and literary anecdotes will make up for the counties and counties to match the quota.
Please follow the orders.
Everything else is as ordered.
The edict was issued: "Yes."
From then on, many officials, officials and officials were elegant, virtuous and literary people.
summary:
The history and transmission of Confucian classics from ancient times through the Han dynasty. Ancient Confucians studied the "Six Arts," a classic of the Wang Sect used by sages to clarify the Tao, correct human relations, and achieve governance. During the decline of Zhou Dao, Confucius emerged after more than two hundred years. Due to his saintly virtue but encountering difficult times, he sighed about the phoenix not coming and the river not flowing out the map. He traveled among princes, entering Zhou in the west and Chu in the south, facing hardships like being frightened in Kuang and short of food in Chen. He revised music after returning from Wei to Lu, ensuring "Ya" and "Song" found their places. He explored ancient and modern books, praising Yao and Zhou, and reviewed the "Books," "Shao Wu," and "Zhou Nan." He connected Zhou rites with Lu's "Spring and Autumn," listing actions of twelve princes using civil and military methods as standards. In his later years, he liked "Yi," reading it so much that the bamboo slip bindings broke several times, and he wrote a biography for it. After Confucius's death, his seventy disciples scattered among princes, with some becoming masters and others mentors. During the Warring States period, Confucianism was denounced, but scholars in Qilu did not abandon the great way. Mencius and Sun Qing followed Confucius's cause and became famous. When Qin Shihuang burned "Poems" and "Books" and killed magicians, the Six Studies became incomplete. When Chen She became king, Confucian scholars from Lu took Kong's ritual vessels to him, and Kong Jia became his doctor, dying with him. Emperor Gao besieged Lu, but Confucian scholars there still recited rituals and sang. Then Confucian scholars began studying classics and teaching rituals. Shusun Tong created Han rituals, and scholarship flourished. During Xiaohui and Gaohou, ministers were military heroes. Xiaowen liked punishment and naming studies. Xiaojing did not employ Confucian scholars, and Empress Dowager Dou liked Huang Lao's skills. When the Han dynasty arose, various scholars taught different classics: Tiansheng taught "Yi," Fusheng taught "Book," Shen Peigong taught "Poetry" in Lu, Yuan Gusheng in Qi, and Taifu Han in Yan. Lu Gaotang taught "Li," and Hu Wusheng and Dong Zhongshu taught "Spring and Autumn." After Empress Dowager Bao died, Wu'an Hou Tian Ju became prime minister, rejecting Huang Lao and Xing Ming, and employing literary Confucian scholars. Gongsun Hong became prime minister due to his study of "Spring and Autumn," and scholars followed. Gongsun Hong, an academic official, wrote about guiding people with etiquette and educating with music. He proposed establishing education in the countryside, with schools in Xia, Yin, and Zhou. He suggested appointing fifty disciples for doctorate officers, exempting them from corvee. County magistrates should choose those who love literature and classics, respect superiors, and obey rules. After a year, those specializing in one subject and learning more arts could become doctors. Those not proficient would be exempted. The edict was issued, and from then on, many officials were virtuous and literary. During Emperor Zhao's reign, virtuous literature was recommended, and doctoral disciples increased. At the end of Xuanlong's reign, the number doubled. Gencha liked Confucianism, and those mastering classics were exempted from corvee. Later, due to insufficient funds, the number was changed to 1,000, and counties established "Hundred Stones" History of the Five Classics. In Emperor Cheng's last years, some said Confucius raised 3,000 disciples, so the emperor increased disciples to 3,000, but the old system was restored after a year. When Wang Mang was in power during Emperor Ping's reign, children of Yuanshi could receive careers as disciples without quota. Forty in the first class served as doctors, twenty as prince's family, and forty made up for literary stories. The text then details the transmission of "Yi" from Confucius through various scholars, including Tian He, Ding Kuan, and others, leading to schools like Shi, Meng, and Liangqiu. It describes how "Yi" was the only book not banned during Qin, so it was continuously passed on. After the Han rise, Tian He moved to Duling and passed on the teachings. Ding Kuan, a native of Liang, studied with Dan Bao and later taught Wang Se, leading to the Shi, Mencius, and Liangqiu schools. Shi Yu, a native of Pei, studied with Tian Wangsun and became a doctor, teaching Zhang Yu and Lu Bo. Meng Xi, from Lanling, studied with Tian Wangsun and claimed to have received the Book of Yin and Yang Catastrophes, but Liangqiu He argued against his falsehood. Jingfang studied from Jiao Yanshou, but his theory was different from others. Fei Zhi studied "Yi" and used ten classical texts to explain it. Gao Xiang studied with Fei Gong and focused on yin and yang disasters. The text also covers the transmission of "Book" from Fu Sheng, who taught Zhang Sheng and Ouyang Sheng. Ouyang Sheng's learning passed through Ni Kuan to Ouyang Gao and others. Xiahou Sheng and Xiahou Jian developed the great and small Xiahou schools. Zhou Kan taught Mou Qing and Xu Shang, leading to the Kong and Xu schools. Zhang Shan taught Li Xun, Zheng Kuanzhong, and others, forming the Zheng, Zhang, Qin, Jiu, and Li schools. Kong Anguo had an ancient text of "Book," but it was not established as an academic official. The text describes the transmission of "Poetry" from Shen Gong, who taught Wang Zang and Zhao Wan. Yuan Gu argued with Huang Sheng about Tang and Wu's mandate. Han Ying wrote "Nei Zhuan" and "Wai Zhuan" for "Poetry." Mao Gong taught "Poetry" to Guandan Qing and others. For "Li," Lu Gaotangsheng taught seventeen chapters, and Xu Sheng taught his grandsons. Meng Qing taught Houcang, who passed on to Dai De and Dai Sheng, forming the Da Dai, Xiao Dai, and Qing schools. Hu's mother taught "Gongyang Chunqiu," and Dong Zhongshu also taught it. Yan Pengzu and Yan Anle developed the Yan and Yan schools. The text describes the rise of "Guliang Chunqiu" during Emperor Xuan's reign, with Rong Guang and others debating with the Gongyang school. Finally, it mentions the transmission of "Zuo Shi Chunqiu" by Zhang Cang, Jia Yi, and others, with Liu Xin advocating for its establishment. The praise notes that from Emperor Wu's establishment of the Doctorate of the Five Classics, scholarship increased, with branches multiplying. Initially, only Ouyang, Hou, Yang, and Gongyang were established. During Xiaoxuan, Daxiahou Shangshu, Daxiao Daili, Shi, Mencius, Liangqiu Yi, and Guliang Chunqiu were added. In Emperor Yuan's reign, Jingshi Yi was established. During Emperor Ping's reign, Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, Mao's Poems, Yi's Rites, and the Ancient Chinese Book of Documents were also established to collect lost texts.

