Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, 12, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖，沛丰邑中阳里人也，姓刘氏。
母媪尝息大泽之陂，梦与神遇。
是时雷电晦冥，父太公往视，则见交龙于上。
已而有娠，遂产高祖。
高祖为人，隆准而龙颜，美须髯，左股有七十二黑子。
宽仁爱人，意豁如也。
常有大度，不事家人生产作业。
及壮，试吏，为泗上亭长，廷中吏无所不狎侮。
好酒及色。
常从王媪、武负贳酒，时饮醉卧，武负、王媪见其上常有龙，怪之。
高祖每酤留饮，酒雠数倍。及见怪，岁竟，此两家常折券弃责。
高祖常徭咸阳，纵观秦皇帝，喟然大息，曰： 嗟乎，大丈夫当如此矣！
单父人吕公善沛令，辟仇，从之客，因家焉。
沛中豪杰吏闻令有重客，皆往贺。
萧何为主吏，主进，令诸大夫曰： 进不满千钱，坐之堂下。
高祖为亭长，素易诸吏，乃绐为谒曰 贺钱万 ，实不持一钱。
谒入，吕公大惊，起，迎之门。
吕公者，好相人，见高祖状貌，因重敬之，引入坐上坐。
萧何曰： 刘季固多大言，少成事。
高祖因狎侮诸客，遂坐上坐，无所诎。
酒阑，吕公因目固留高祖。
竟酒，后。吕公曰： 臣少好相人，相人多矣，无如季相，愿季自爱。臣有息女，愿为箕帚妾。
酒罢，吕媪怒吕公曰： 公始常欲奇此女，与贵人。
沛令善公，求之不与，何自妄许与刘季？
吕公曰： 此非兒女子所知。
translation: 
Han Gaozu was a native of Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County, and his surname was Liu.
His mother once closed her eyes and took a nap on the embankment of a pond, and unexpectedly met the god in her dream.
At that time, there was thunder and lightning and the sky was dark. His father Taigong went to Tangba to meet his mother and saw a dragon crawling on his mother's body.
Soon after, she became pregnant and gave birth to Han Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu had a high nose, raised eyebrows, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left thigh.
He is kind, generous and broad-minded.
Usually informal, but unwilling to engage in ordinary productive labor.
When he grew up, he served as a minor official and became the chief of Sishang Pavilion. But he looked down upon the officials in the government.
Emperor Gaozu loved wine and sex.
He often went to Wang Po and Wu Ma's hotel to buy wine on credit, and sometimes he was extremely drunk. Wang Po and Wu Ma saw strange phenomena appearing on his body while he was lying drunk.
Every time Gaozu drank wine on credit, the hotel always doubled the price of the wine. Later, seeing his mysterious atmosphere when he was drunk, when settling the wine bill at the end of the year, the two families often tore up the IOUs and waived his wine debt.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang, the capital of Qin, to do corvee service and saw the majesty of Qin Shihuang with his own eyes. He sighed and said: A real man should be like this!
Lu Gong of Shanfu County was a good friend of the magistrate of Pei County. Because he was hiding from his enemies, he stayed in the magistrate's apartment and later moved his family to Pei County.
Some prominent people in Peizhong heard that a friend of the county magistrate had moved to Pei, and they all went to congratulate him.
Xiao He is the county magistrate's assistant and is responsible for collecting gifts. I say to all the prominent figures: Anyone who can contribute less than one thousand yuan will sit down in the hall.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was the chief of the pavilion at this time. He usually looked down on these people, so he mischievously wrote his name on the red envelope and said "ten thousand yuan in congratulations", but actually did not give a penny.
When the gift package was delivered, Lu Gong was surprised to see the generous gift and went to the gate to greet him personally.
Lu Gong was good at fortune-telling, and when he saw Gaozu's extraordinary appearance, he also respected him very much. He led him into the living room and invited him to sit on the throne.
Xiao He said: Liu Ji usually only talks big words and seldom accomplishes good things.
Emperor Gaozu had long looked down on these prominent figures in the county, so he sat on the throne without humility and looked at ease.
When he was half drunk, Lu Gong asked Gaozu to stay with his eyes. When the banquet was over, he asked Gaozu to stay and slow down.
Lu Gong said to Emperor Gaozu: I have been studying physiognomy since I was young. I have seen many people, but none of them are as noble as yours. I hope you will take care of yourself. I have a biological daughter who is willing to marry you.
After the guests left, Ms. Lu yelled at Mr. Lu and said, "You always said that my daughter was blessed in life and would marry a noble man in the future."
Peiling is on good terms with you, but you want to marry my daughter but you refuse. Why do you want to marry me to Liu Ji today?
Lu Gong smiled and said: This is not what you women know.
summary:
Han Gaozu, originally named Liu Ji, was born in Peixian County. His mother dreamed of a god during a thunderstorm, and his father saw a dragon on her, leading to his birth. He had a distinctive appearance with a high nose, raised eyebrows, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left thigh. He was generous and broad-minded, disliking ordinary labor, and served as a minor official, often looking down on others. He loved wine and women, frequently buying wine on credit from Wang Po and Wu Ma, who noticed strange phenomena when he was drunk and eventually forgave his debts. While performing corvée in Xianyang, he saw Qin Shihuang and declared, "A real man should be like this."

Chunk 1: 
original: 
卒与高祖。
吕公女即吕后也，生孝惠帝、鲁元公主。
高祖尝告归之田。
吕后与两子居田中，有一老父过，请饮，吕后因餔之。
老父相后曰： 夫人天下贵人也。
令相两子，见孝惠帝，曰： 夫人所以贵者，乃此男也。
相鲁元公主，亦皆贵。
老父已去，高祖适从旁舍来，吕后具言： 客有过，相我子母皆大贵。
高祖问，曰： 未远。
乃追及，问老父。
老父曰： 乡者夫人兒子皆以君，君相贵不可言。
高祖乃谢曰： 诚如父言，不敢忘德。
及高祖贵，遂不知老父处。
高祖为亭长，乃以竹皮为冠，令求盗之薛治，时时冠之，及贵常冠，所谓 刘氏冠 也。
高祖以亭长为县送徒骊山，徒多道亡。
自度比至皆亡之，到丰西泽中亭，止饮，夜皆解纵所送徒，曰： 公等皆去，吾亦从此逝矣！
徒中壮士愿从者十余人。
高祖被酒，夜径泽中，令一人行前。
行前者还报曰： 前有大蛇当径，愿还。
高祖醉，曰： 壮士行，何畏！
乃前，拔剑斩蛇。蛇分为两，道开。
行数里，醉困卧。
后人来至蛇所，有一老妪夜哭。
人问妪何哭，妪曰： 人杀吾子。
人曰： 妪子何为见杀？
妪曰： 吾子，白帝子也，化为蛇当道，今者赤帝子斩之，故哭。
人乃以妪为不诚，欲苦之，妪因忽不见。
后人至，高祖觉。
translation: 
In the end, he married his daughter to Gaozu.
Gong Lu's daughter was later Empress Lu, and gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui of Han and Princess Lu Yuan.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty once resigned as the pavilion chief and went home to work on the farm.
Queen Lu and her two children lived in a small shed in the field. An old man who was passing by asked him for water, and Queen Lu even let him have a meal.
The father-in-law looked at Empress Lu's compliments and said: "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to look at the faces of the two children. He looked at Emperor Xiaohui and said: The reason why my wife became a noble person is because of this son.
He looked at Princess Lu Yuan again and said that she would be a noble person in the future.
After the father-in-law left, Gaozu returned from another farmhouse. Empress Lu told him about the past, saying that the father-in-law, my mother and my son were all high-ranking ministers.
Emperor Gaozu asked where his father-in-law was, and Empress Lu said: "He has not gone far."
Emperor Gaozu chased his father-in-law and asked him about his life.
The father-in-law said: Just now, I said that my wife and son are so noble in life, it is all due to your great blessing. Your life is priceless.
Emperor Gaozu quickly thanked him and said: "As the old gentleman said, I will always remember your kindness."
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, the whereabouts of this father-in-law was unknown.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was the chief of the pavilion and wore a bamboo hat. He sent the thief-catching pavilion soldiers to Xuedi to learn the craftsmanship of making bamboo hats. He often wore this kind of hat and still wore it when he was in a high position. Later, this kind of bamboo hat was called "Liu Shi Guan".
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty sent servants to Lishan Mountain for Peixian County as the pavilion chief. Many servants escaped on the way.
When he thought about Lishan, they might all run away, so he went to Fengxi Zezhong Pavilion, asked the servants to stop and rest, invited everyone to drink, and let all the servants go at night. He said: Everyone should just run away!
I will fly far away from now on!
Among the servants, there were more than ten vigorous men who were willing to go with Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu took advantage of the drunkenness and led everyone to escape from the Zezhong trail, and sent one person to explore the road ahead.
The pathfinder came back and reported: There is a big snake blocking the road ahead. Let's go back.
Emperor Gaozu said drunkenly: Warriors march forward, why should they be afraid?
So he went forward himself, drew his sword and killed the snake. The snake was cut into two pieces, and the road was passable.
After walking for several miles, Emperor Gaozu was drunk and sleepy, so he lay down on the road.
Someone caught up from behind and passed by where Gaozu killed the snake. He saw an old mother crying by the roadside at night.
The man asked the reason, and the old mother said: Someone else killed my son.
This person said: Who killed my mother’s son?
The old mother said: My child is the son of the White Emperor. He turned into a big snake and blocked the road. When he met the son of the Red Emperor, he was beheaded, so I am crying here.
This person thought that the old mother was talking nonsense and wanted to cross-examine her, but she disappeared in the blink of an eye.
When this man caught up with Gaozu, Gaozu had already woken up.
summary:
Lu Gong, a friend of the Pei County magistrate, moved to the area, and Liu Ji falsely claimed a gift of ten thousand yuan at a gathering. Lu Gong, skilled in physiognomy, recognized Liu Ji's noble appearance and married his daughter to him, despite his wife's objections. This daughter later became Empress Lu, mother of Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan. After resigning as pavilion chief, Liu Ji worked on a farm. An old man predicted that Empress Lu and her children would be noble, and that Liu Ji's destiny was priceless. Liu Ji later wore a distinctive bamboo hat, known as the "Liu Shi Guan." As pavilion chief, Liu Ji was tasked with sending servants to Lishan, but many escaped. He released them all, and over ten strong men chose to follow him. While fleeing, he killed a large snake blocking the path. An old woman later claimed the snake was the son of the White Emperor, killed by the son of the Red Emperor, which Liu Ji took as a sign of his destiny. Qin Shihuang heard of an emperor's cloud in the southeast and toured to suppress it. Empress Lu could always find Liu Ji by following a cloud above his hiding place, further convincing others of his destiny.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
告高祖，高祖乃心独喜，自负。
诸从者日益畏之。
秦始皇帝尝曰 东南有天子气 ，于是东游以当之。
高祖隐于芒、砀山泽间，吕后与人俱求，常得之。
高祖怪问吕后，后曰： 季所居上常有云气，故从往常得季。
高祖又喜。
沛中子弟或闻之，多欲附者。
秦二世元年秋七月，陈涉起蕲。
至陈，自立为楚王，遣武臣、张耳、陈馀略赵地。
八月，武臣自立为赵王。
郡县多杀长吏以应涉。
九月，沛令欲以沛应之。掾、主吏萧何、曹参曰： 君为秦吏，今欲背之，帅沛子弟，恐不听。
愿君召诸亡在外者，可得数百人，因以劫众，众不敢不听。
乃令樊哙召高祖。
高祖之众已数百人矣。
于是樊哙从高祖来。沛令后悔，恐其有变，乃闭城城守，欲诛萧、曹。
萧、曹恐，逾城保高祖。
高祖乃书帛射城上，与沛父老曰： 天下同苦秦久矣。
今父老虽为沛令守，诸侯并起，今屠沛。
沛今共诛令，择可立立之，以应诸侯，即室家完。不然，父子俱屠，无为也。
父老乃帅子弟共杀沛令，开城门迎高祖，欲以为沛令。
高祖曰： 天下方扰，诸侯并起，今置将不善，一败涂地。
吾非敢自爱，恐能薄，不能完父兄子弟。
此大事，愿更择可者。
萧、曹皆文吏，自爱，恐事不就，后秦种族其家，尽让高祖。
诸父老皆曰： 平生所闻刘季奇怪，当贵，且卜筮之，莫如刘季最吉。
translation: 
This person told Gaozu about this, and Gaozu was secretly happy and believed that he would become a big success.
Those who followed him also grew in awe of him.
Qin Shihuang once heard someone say: There is the emperor's cloud in the southeast. So the First Emperor made an eastward tour to suppress this cloud.
Emperor Gaozu sometimes hid in the mountains and rivers of Mangdang. When Empress Lu and others went to look for him, it was always easy to find him.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange and asked the reason. Queen Lu said: There is a layer of clouds above where you are staying. If you look for the place where the clouds are, you will find it.
Gaozu was very happy again.
The children of Peizhong also heard this legend, and many people wanted to attach themselves to him.
In the autumn and seventh month of the first year of Qin II, Chen She revolted in Qixian County, arrived in Chendi, and proclaimed himself the king of Chu.
He sent Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu to capture Zhao's territory.
In August, Wu Chen proclaimed himself King of Zhao.
In various counties and counties, major officials were killed one after another in response to Chen She.
In September, the magistrate of Peixian County wanted to respond to Chen She in Peixian County. His aides Xiao He and Cao Shen came forward and said: As an official of the Qin Dynasty, you now want to betray the Qin Dynasty and lead the children of Peizhong to revolt. I am afraid that everyone will not listen.
I hope you can recruit those who have fled, and you can get hundreds of people. With the power of these people, you can appeal to the worried children of Peizhong, and the children of Peizhong will not dare not listen.
So the magistrate of Peixian County sent Fan Kuai to invite Gaozu.
At this time, Gaozu already had hundreds of people.
When Fan Kuai and Gaozu came with their troops, Peiling went back on his word. He was afraid that Gaozu would seize his power, so he closed the city and wanted to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were afraid and secretly crossed the city wall to seek refuge with Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu then wrote a silk book and shot it on the city. The book told the elders of Peixian County: The whole world has been bullied by the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
Although you, the elders, are guarding the city for Pei Ling today, as soon as the rebels from various places arrive, they will use force in Pei land.
If you can kill Pei Ling now, elect a leader who is popular among the people, and join the rebel army, you can ensure the safety of your family. Otherwise, the whole family will suffer, which is meaningless.
So the elders of Peizhong led their children to kill Peiling, opened the city gate to welcome Gao Zu, and recommended Gao Zu to be the magistrate of Peixian County.
Emperor Gaozu thanked him and said: Today is a time of great chaos in the world, and heroes are revolting one after another. If the leaders are not selected properly, they will be completely defeated.
I am not a person who is greedy for life and afraid of death, but I am deeply afraid that my virtue and ability will be shallow and I will not be able to protect you, my fathers and brothers.
This is a big deal, please choose another capable person.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were both civil servants. They were worried about their wealth and life. They were afraid that if they failed to do something, the Qin Dynasty would exterminate the nine tribes in the future, they tried their best to recommend Gaozu.
The elders of Peixian County all said: If you hear some strange things about Liu Ji, you may become a nobleman. We have asked the gods for divination, and they all said that there is no one more suitable than Liu Ji.
summary:
In the first year of Qin II, Chen She rebelled, and the Pei County magistrate considered joining. Xiao He and Cao Shen advised him to recruit fugitives, including Liu Ji. When Liu Ji arrived with followers, the magistrate reneged and tried to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen, who fled to Liu Ji. Liu Ji shot a message into the city, urging the elders to kill the magistrate and join the rebellion. They did so, and Liu Ji was elected Duke of Pei after multiple refusals. He honored Huangdi and Chiyou, used red flags, and quickly expanded his army to 3,000 men. Other rebellions followed, including Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu in Wu.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
项梁尽召别将。
六月，沛公如薛，与项梁共立楚怀王孙心为楚怀王。
章邯破杀魏王咎、齐王田儋于临济。
七月，大霖雨。
沛公攻亢父。
章邯围田荣于东阿。沛公与项梁共救田荣，大破章邯东阿。
田荣归，沛公、项羽追北，至城阳，攻屠其城。军濮阳东，复与章邯战，又破之。
章邯复振，守濮阳，环水。
沛公、项羽去攻定陶。
八月，田荣立田儋子市为齐王。
定陶未下，沛公与项羽西略地至雍丘，与秦军战，大败之，斩三川守李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
项梁再破秦军，有骄色。
宋义谏，不听。
秦益章邯兵。
九月，章邯夜衔枚击项梁定陶，大破之，杀项梁。
时连雨自七月至九月。
沛公、项羽方攻陈留，闻梁死，士卒恐，乃与将军吕臣引兵而东，徙怀王自盱台都彭城。
吕臣军彭城东，项羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
魏咎弟豹自立为魏王。
后九月，怀王并吕臣、项羽军自将之。以沛公为砀郡长，封武安侯，将砀郡兵。
以羽为鲁公，封长安侯。吕臣为司徒，其父吕青为令尹。
章邯已破项梁，以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河北击赵王歇，大破之。
歇保巨鹿城，秦将王离围之。
赵数请救，怀王乃以宋义为上将，项羽为次将，范增为末将，北救赵。
初，怀王与诸将约，先入定关中者王之。
当是时，秦兵强，常乘胜逐北，诸将莫利先入关。
独羽怨秦破项梁，奋势，愿与沛公西入关。
怀王诸老将皆曰： 项羽为人慓悍祸贼，尝攻襄城，襄城无噍类，所过无不残灭。
且楚数进取，前陈王、项梁皆败，不如更遣长者扶义而西，告谕秦父兄。
translation: 
Xiang Liang recalled all the young generals who were elsewhere.
In the sixth month, Duke Pei arrived in Xuedi, and together with Xiang Liang, he made Sun Mixin, the king of Chu Huai, the king of Chu Huai.
Qin general Zhang Han broke out and killed Wei Wang Jiu and Qi Wang Tian Dan in Linji.
In July, it rained continuously.
Duke Pei attacked Kang's father.
Zhang Han surrounded Qi general Tian Rong in Dong'a County. Peigong and Xiang Liang led troops to rescue Tian Rong and defeated Qin general Zhang Han in Dong'a.
Tian Rong led his troops back, and Peigong and Xiang Yu pursued the Qin soldiers to Chengyang County. They bloodbathed Chengyang and garrisoned in the east of Puyang. They fought against Zhang Han again and defeated the Qin soldiers again.
Zhang Han regained his strength and defended Puyang, digging trenches to divert water and stabilize himself.
Peigong and Xiang Yu then moved their troops to attack Dingtao.
In August, Tian Rong established Tian Dan Zi Tian Shi as the King of Qi.
Before Dingtao was captured, Peigong and Xiang Yu took the land to Yongqiu, fought with the Qin soldiers, defeated the Qin soldiers, and killed Li You, the governor of Sanchuan.
Returned to attack Waihuang, but failed to capture it.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army twice and showed his pride.
Song Yi reminded him, but Xiang Liang didn't listen.
The Qin Dynasty sent additional troops to Zhang Han.
In September, Zhang Han secretly attacked Xiang Liang's garrison in Dingtao in the dark, defeated Xiang Liang's army, and killed Xiang Liang.
It was rainy and rainy from July to September.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu were attacking Chenliu. When they heard that Xiang Liang was dead, the soldiers were frightened, so they and their general Lu Chen led troops eastward and moved King Huai of Chu from Xuyi to Pengcheng.
Lu Chen garrisoned to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu garrisoned to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong garrisoned to Dang County.
Wei Bao, Wei Jiu's younger brother, established himself as King of Wei.
In the ninth month of the leap year, King Huai merged the armies of Lu Chen and Xiang Yu and put him under his direct command. He appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an to command the troops of Dang County.
Xiang Yu was appointed Duke of Lu, Marquis of Chang'an, Lu Chen was appointed Situ, and Lu Chen's father Lu Qing was appointed Ling Yin.
After Qin general Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang, he thought that the rebel Qin forces in Chu were no longer a threat, so he crossed the river and went north to attack Zhao Wangxie and defeated Zhao Wangxie.
King Zhao retreated to defend Julu City, and Qin General Wang Li's troops surrounded Julu.
King Zhao asked King Huai of Chu for help many times, and King Huai appointed Song Yi as general, Xiang Yu as deputy general, and Fan Zeng as junior general. Lead the troops north to rescue Zhao Jun.
Originally, King Huai had made an appointment with the generals, and whoever could conquer Guanzhong first would be crowned king.
During this period, the Qin army was powerful and often took advantage of its victory to pursue the rebels. The generals were afraid of its power and did not dare to enter the pass.
Only Xiang Yu hated the Qin army for defeating and killing Xiang Liang. He was very angry and was willing to enter the pass with Peigong west.
Some of King Huai's veterans said: What kind of person is Xiang Yu? He was fierce and good at killing. When Xiangcheng was captured, there were almost no survivors in Xiangcheng. Everywhere Xiang Yu passed by was destroyed.
Moreover, the Chu army's many attempts to advance against the former Chu kings Chen She and Xiang Liang all ended in failure. It would be better to send another generous elder to march westward with righteousness and inform the fathers and brothers of Qin.
summary:
Liu Ji's forces grew through various battles, including victories at Huling, Fangyu, and Xue. He faced setbacks, such as Yong Chi's betrayal to Wei, but regained Feng. He joined Xiang Liang, who made Sun Mixin King of Chu Huai. After Xiang Liang's death, Liu Ji and Xiang Yu moved King Huai to Pengcheng. King Huai appointed Liu Ji as Marquis of Wu'an and ordered that whoever first entered Guanzhong would be king. Liu Ji was chosen for his kindness, while Xiang Yu was deemed too violent.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
今不下宛，宛从后击，强秦在前，此危道也。
于是沛公乃夜引军从他道还，偃旗帜，迟明，围宛城三匝。
南阳守欲自刭，其舍人陈恢曰： 死未晚也。
乃逾城见沛公，曰： 臣闻足下约先入咸阳者王之，今足下留守宛。
宛郡县连城数十，其吏民自以为降必死，故皆坚守乘城。
今足下尽日止攻，士死伤者必多；引兵去，宛必随足下。
前则失咸阳之约，后有强宛之患。
为足下计，莫若约降，封其守，因使止守，引其甲卒与之西。
诸城未下者，闻声争开门而待足下，足下通行无所累。 沛公曰： 善。
七月，南阳守齮降，封为殷侯，封陈恢千户。
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鳃、襄侯王陵降。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与偕攻析、郦，皆降。
所过毋得卤掠，秦民喜。遣魏人甯昌使秦。
是月，章邯举军降项羽，羽以为雍王。
瑕丘申阳下河南。
八月，沛公攻武关，入秦。
秦相赵高恐，乃杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中，沛公不许。
九月，赵高立二世兄子子婴为秦王。
子婴诛灭赵高，遣将将兵距峣关。
沛公欲击之，张良曰： 秦兵尚强，未可轻。
愿先遣人益张旗帜于山上为疑兵，使郦食其、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利。
秦将果欲连和，沛公欲许之。
张良曰： 此独其将欲叛，恐其士卒不从，不如因其怠懈击之。
沛公引兵绕峣关，逾蒉山，击秦军，大破之蓝田南。遂至蓝田，又战其北，秦兵大败。
元年冬十月，五星聚于东井。
沛公至霸上。秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺、符、节、降枳道旁。诸将或言诛秦王，沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容，且人已服降，杀之不祥。
translation: 
If we do not capture Wancheng now, if Qin Dynasty is strong enough to defend in front of us and Wan soldiers attack behind us, this will be a dangerous road.
Pei Gong led his troops to detour and attack Wancheng at night. All flags and drums ceased, and before dawn, Wancheng was surrounded by three layers.
The governor of Nanyang County wanted to kill himself, but his close aide Chen Hui said: It is not time to die yet.
So Chen Hui went across the city to see Pei Gong. He said: I heard that I have made an appointment with someone: the man who first entered Xianyang, the capital of Qin, honored me as king, and now I am attacking Wancheng.
There were dozens of strongholds in Wan County. The soldiers guarding the city thought they would be executed if they surrendered, so they all climbed to the city to defend it.
If the troops attack all day long, both sides will suffer a lot of casualties; if they give up attacking Wan and lead their troops westward, the Qin soldiers in Wan will be completely behind them.
A single attack on Wan would delay the promise that whoever enters Xianyang first would be the king; a single step of abandoning Wan would leave behind the possibility of pursuers.
For the sake of his subordinates, it is better for me to allow the Wancheng garrison to surrender, make the county garrison a marquis, and still order him to stay where he is. Move his forces westward.
The cities in the front that have not yet been captured will definitely respond to the news and welcome the next step. You will be able to pass smoothly with just one step without any worries. Pei Gong said: Very good.
In the seventh month, the governor of Nanyang, Ji Qi, surrendered. Pei Gong granted him the title of Marquis of Yin, and granted Chen Hui the title of Qianhu.
Leading troops to the west, the momentum is like breaking bamboo.
When the troops arrived at Danshui, Qin Gao Wuhou Ji and Xianghou Wang Ling surrendered.
Returning to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Jie and joined forces with him to attack Zhe County and Li County, but they all surrendered.
Pei Gong ordered the troops not to plunder wherever they passed. The people of Qin welcomed him very much and sent Wei people Ningchang to Qin to persuade them to surrender.
In the same month, Qin general Zhang Han led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu, and Xiang Yu named Zhang Han King Yong.
Xiaqiu Gong Shenyang captured Henan.
In August, Peigong captured Wuguan. Entering the suburbs of Qin.
Qin Prime Minister Zhao Gao was frightened, so he killed Qin II and sent an envoy to see Pei Gong, wanting to make an agreement to divide the Guanzhong land equally, but Pei Gong refused.
In September, Zhao Gao made Ziying, the son of his second brother, king.
Ziying killed Zhao Gao and sent generals to lead troops to guard Shanyao Pass.
Pei Gong wanted to attack, but Zhang Liang stopped him and said: Qin's army is strong and should not be underestimated.
It is suggested to send people to plant more flags on the nearby mountains to make the soldiers suspicious, and then send Li Shiqi and Lu Jia to the Qin camp to act as lobbyists to lure them.
The general of Qin really wanted to make peace with Pei Gong, and Pei Gong agreed.
Zhang Liang said: This is just a buffer strategy for Qin's generals who want to rebel against Qin and are afraid that their soldiers will not obey. It is better to take advantage of Qin's unpreparedness and launch an attack.
So Peigong led his troops to bypass Shanyao Pass, cross the Huangshan Mountains, and attack the Qin army. Then they marched to Lantian and attacked from the north. The Qin army was defeated again.
In the tenth month of winter in the first year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong led his troops to reach Bashui River.
Qin Prince Ying drove a plain chariot and a white horse, with a ribbon tied around his neck, and the emperor's jade seal seal, and surrendered to Pei Gong beside the Zhidao Pavilion. Some of the generals suggested that Pei Gong kill the King of Qin. Pei Gong said: Originally, the reason why King Huai of Chu sent me to pass was because I can tolerate people. Besides, the King of Qin has surrendered, so it is not good to kill him.
summary:
Liu Ji advanced westward, defeating Qin forces and accepting surrenders. He entered Wuguan and reached Bashui, where Qin Prince Ying surrendered. Liu Ji spared him, entered Xianyang, and issued the "three chapters of the law," abolishing harsh Qin laws. He refused gifts from the people, winning their support. He guarded Hangu Pass against Xiang Yu, who grew angry. Xiang Yu's uncle Xiang Bo warned Zhang Liang, leading to the Hongmen Banquet, where Liu Ji narrowly escaped assassination. Xiang Yu later entered Xianyang, killed Prince Ying, and burned the palaces, disappointing the people.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
羽使卒三万人从汉王，楚子、诸侯人之慕从者数万人，从杜南入蚀中。
张良辞归韩，汉王送至褒中，因说汉王烧绝栈道，以备诸侯盗兵，亦视项羽无东意。
汉王既至南郑，诸将及士卒皆歌讴思东归，多道亡还者。
韩信为治粟都尉，亦亡去。
萧何追还之，因荐于汉王，曰： 必欲争天下，非信无可与计事者。
于是汉王齐戒设坛场，拜信为大将军，问以计策。
信对曰： 项羽背约而王君王于南郑，是迁也。
吏卒毕山东之人，日夜企而望归，及其锋而用之，可以有大功。
天下已定，民皆自宁，不可复用。
不如决策东向。
因陈羽可图、三秦易并之计。
汉王大说，遂听信策，部署诸将。留萧何收巴、蜀租，给军粮食。
五月，汉王引兵从故道出袭雍。
雍王邯迎击汉陈仓，雍兵败，还走；战好畤，又大败，走废丘。
汉王遂定雍地。
东如咸阳，引兵围雍王废丘，而遣诸将略地。
田荣闻羽徙齐王市于胶东而立田都为齐王，大怒，以齐兵迎击田都。都走降楚。
六月，田荣杀田市，自立为齐王。
时彭越在巨野，众万余人，无所属。
荣与越将军印，因令反梁地。
越击杀济北王安，荣遂并三齐之地。
燕王韩广亦不肯徙辽东。
秋八月，臧荼杀韩广，并其地。
塞王欣、翟王翳皆降汉。
初，项梁立韩后公子成为韩王，张良为韩司徒。
羽以良从汉王，韩王成又无功，故不遣就国，与俱至彭城，杀之。
及闻汉王并关中，而齐、梁畔之，羽大怒，乃以故吴令郑昌为韩王，距汉。
令萧公角击彭越，越败角兵。
时张良徇韩地，遗羽书曰： 汉欲得关中，如约即止，不敢复东。
羽以故无西意，而北击齐。
九月，汉王遣将军薛欧、王吸出武关，因王陵兵，从南阳迎太公、吕后于沛。
羽闻之，发兵距之阳夏，不得前。
二年冬十月，项羽使九江王布杀义帝于郴。
陈馀亦怨羽独不王己，从田荣借助兵，以击常山王张耳。
耳败走降汉，汉王厚遇之。
陈馀迎代王歇还赵，歇立馀为代王。
张良自韩间行归汉，汉王以为成信侯。
汉王如陕，镇抚关外父老。
河南王申阳降，置河南郡。
使韩太尉韩信击韩，韩王郑昌降。
十一月，立韩太尉信为韩王。
汉王还归，都栎阳，使诸将略地，拔陇西。
translation: 
Xiang Yu assigned 30,000 soldiers to the King of Han. Chu and other vassal states had tens of thousands of people who admired the King of Han and were willing to follow him.
Zhang Liang bid farewell to the King of Han and returned to Korea. The King of Han personally sent Zhang Liang to Baozhong. When saying goodbye, Zhang Liang suggested that the King of Han burn down the plank road. Firstly, to prevent other princes from peeking into Hanzhong, and secondly, to express to Xiang Yu that the King of Han had no intention of leaving Hanzhong anymore.
When the King of Han arrived at Nanzheng, all his officers and men sang in unison and wanted to return to the east; many of them fled back.
Han Xin, the captain of Zhisu, also left with the people returning from the east.
Xiao He chased Han Xin and recommended him to the king of Han. Xiao He said: If you really want to conquer the world, there is no one with whom to discuss except Han Xin.
So King Zhaijie of Han went to the platform to worship generals, worshiped Han Xin as a general, and asked for advice on how to conquer the world.
Han Xin replied: Xiang Yu broke the original agreement and changed the title of king to Nanzheng. This is treating the king as a sinner and migrating.
The king's soldiers are all from Shandong, and they hope to fight back to their hometown day and night. If they can use their energy in time, they will definitely win.
If we wait until the world is stable and the people are in their own places, there will be no morale left.
The top priority is to lead troops eastward.
At the same time, it also comprehensively stated Xiang Yu's strategies that could be combined with those of the Three Qin Dynasties.
The King of Han was very satisfied and made arrangements according to Han Xin's plan. He sent Xiao He to stay in Hanzhong to collect money and grain from Ba and Shu to supply military supplies.
In May, the King of Han led troops from Gudao County to attack Yongdi. King Zhanghan of Yong met the Han soldiers in Chencang.
King Yong was defeated and retreated; did the battle end well again? In the county, Zhang Han's troops were defeated again and rushed to Feiqiu.
The king of Han pacified Yongdi in time.
He marched eastward to Xianyang, surrounded the waste hill that Zhang Han refused to defend, and then sent various generals to expand his territory.
Qi general Tian Rong was furious when he heard that Xiang Yu had moved King Tianshi of Qi to Jiaodong and made Tiandu the king of Qi. He led the Qi troops to intercept Tiandu, but Tiandu was defeated and surrendered to Chu.
In June, Tian Rong killed Tian Shi and proclaimed himself king of Qi.
At this time, Peng Yue garrisoned troops in Juye, with more than 10,000 soldiers but no one to belong to.
Tian Rong awarded Peng Yue the seal of general and ordered him to attack from Liang.
Peng Yue killed Tian An, the king of Jibei, and Tian Rong occupied the entire area of ​​Qi, Jibei, and Jiaodong.
Han Guang, King of Yan, also refused to move to Liaodong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Zang Tu, the new king of Yan, killed Han Guang and occupied his territory.
Sima Xin, king of Sai, and Dong Yi, king of Zhai, both surrendered to the Han.
At the beginning, the son after Xiang Liang established Korea became the king of Han, and Zhang Liang became the disciple of the king of Han.
Xiang Yu did not allow Zhang Liang to return to Han because he had followed the King of Han, and King Cheng of Han had not made any military exploits. He took him to Pengcheng and executed him.
At this time, Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han had annexed Guanzhong, and that Qi and Liang had rebelled against him. He was furious, so he sent Zheng Chang, the original Wu commander, as the King of Han to resist the Han soldiers.
He ordered Xiao Gongjiao to attack Peng Yue, but was defeated by Peng Yue.
During this period, Zhang Liang was touring Han and sent a letter to Xiang Yu, saying: The king of Han wants to capture Guanzhong. If he fulfills his promise to enter Guanzhong first, he will stop advancing and will not dare to continue to advance eastward.
Therefore, Xiang Yu had no intention of going west for the time being, and instead attacked Qi Wang Tianrong in the north.
In September, the King of Han sent generals Xue Ou and Wang Sui out of Wuguan to join the troops guarding Wang Ling in Nanyang, and went from Nanyang to Pei to meet the Taigong and Empress Lu.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he sent troops to intercept them in Yangxia. Wang Ling and others were unable to advance.
In the winter of October of the second year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu sent Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill Emperor Yi in Chen County.
Chen Yuhuai resented Xiang Yu for not making him king, so he asked Qi King Tian Rong to borrow troops to attack Changshan King Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was defeated and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The king of Han gave him a grand courtesy.
Chen Yu welcomed Dai Wang Xie and returned Zhao land, and Dai Wang Xie made Chen Yu the acting king.
Zhang Liang secretly came to the King of Han from Han, and the King of Han made him the Marquis of Chengxin.
The King of Han arrived in Shaanxi County to comfort the elders outside the Pass.
King Shenyang of Henan surrendered to the Han, and the Han established Henan County here.
Han Taiwei Han Xin was sent to attack Han, and Han King Zheng Chang surrendered.
In November, Taiwei Han was granted the title of King of Han.
The King of Han returned to Hanzhong, with his capital in Yueyang, and sent generals to seize the enemy's land and conquer Longxi.
summary:
Xiang Yu violated the agreement, making Liu Ji King of Han in Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, while dividing Guanzhong among three Qin generals. Liu Ji resented this but was dissuaded from attacking. He burned the plank road to show no intention of leaving Hanzhong. Han Xin, recommended by Xiao He, was made general and advised an eastern campaign. Liu Ji defeated Zhang Han and expanded, while rebellions by Tian Rong and others weakened Xiang Yu.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
寡人亲为发丧，兵皆缟素。悉发关中兵，收三河士，南浮江、汉以下，愿从诸侯王击楚之杀义帝者。
夏四月，田荣弟横收得数万人，立荣子广为齐王。
羽虽闻汉东，既击齐，欲遂破之而后击汉，汉王以故得劫五诸侯兵东伐楚。
到外黄，彭越将三万人归汉。
汉王拜越为魏相国，令定梁也。
汉王遂入彭城，收羽美人货赂，置酒高会。
羽闻之，令其将击齐，而自以精兵三万人从鲁出胡陵，至萧、晨击汉军，大战彭城灵壁东睢水上，大破汉军，多杀士卒，睢水为之不流。
围汉王三匝。
大风从西北起，折木发屋，扬砂石，昼晦，楚军大乱，而汉王得与数十骑遁去。
过沛，使人求室家，室家亦已亡，不相得。
汉王道逢孝惠、鲁元，载行。
楚骑追汉王，汉王急，推堕二子。
滕公下收载，遂得脱。
审食其从太公、吕后间行，反遇楚军，羽常置军中以为质。
诸侯见汉败，皆亡去。
塞王欣、翟王翳降楚，殷王卬死。
吕后兄周吕侯将兵居下邑，汉王从之。
稍收士卒，军砀。
汉王西过梁地，至虞，谓谒者随何曰： 公能说九江王布使举兵畔楚，项王必留击之。
得留数月，吾取天下必矣。
随何往说布，果使畔楚。
五月，汉王屯荥阳，萧何发关中老弱未傅者悉诣军。
韩信亦收兵与汉王会，兵复大振。
与楚战荥阳南京、索间，破之。
筑甬道属河，以取敖仓粟。
魏王豹谒归视亲疾。
至则绝河津，反为楚。
六月，汉王还栎阳。壬午，立太子，赦罪人。
令诸侯子在关中者皆集栎阳为卫。
引水灌废丘，废丘降，章邯自杀。
雍地定，八十余县，置河上、渭南、中地、陇西、上郡。
令祠官祀天地、四方、上帝、山川，以时祠之。
兴关中卒乘边塞。
translation: 
I mourned personally, and the whole army, all dressed in plain clothes, gathered all the soldiers from Guanzhong, gathered the soldiers of Sanhe, and went south along the Han River into the Yangtze River, hoping to follow the princes and kings to arrest the culprits of the regicide.
In the fourth month of summer, Tian Heng, the younger brother of King Tian Rong of Qi, recovered tens of thousands of people who had been defeated by Xiang Yu, and made Tian Guang, the son of Tian Rong, the king of Qi.
Although Xiang Yu had already heard about the Han king's eastward advance, he had already sent all his troops to attack Chu. He wanted to destroy Qi and then attack the Han army. Therefore, the Han king took the opportunity to annex the troops of Wei, Yin and other five princes and attack Chu eastward.
When the troops arrived in Waihuang, Peng Yue led 30,000 people to surrender to the Han.
The King of Han made Peng Yue Prime Minister of Wei. Let him pacify Liang Di.
The king of Han then entered Pengcheng, the capital of Chu Xiang. Collected Xiang Yu's beauties and treasures, and held a cocktail party to celebrate the victory.
After hearing the news, Xiang Yu sent another general to attack, and led 30,000 elite troops from Huling, Lu, to Xiao County. They attacked the Han army in the early morning and fought on the Sui River east of Pengcheng Lingbi.
The soldiers of Chu surrounded the king of Han three times.
A strong wind came from the northwest, breaking trees and breaking houses, flying sand and rocks, making the day look like night, and the Chu army was in chaos. The king of Han took advantage of the chaos and broke through the siege with dozens of cavalry to escape.
Traveling through Peixian County, he sent people to look for his family members, but the whole family had fled and their whereabouts were unknown.
The King of Han met his son Xiaohui and his daughter Lu Yuan on the way, and they boarded a chariot and left in panic.
The Chu cavalry chased the King of Han. Seeing the critical situation, the King of Han pushed his children out of the carriage.
Teng Gong put the two men in the car again and finally escaped from the tiger's mouth.
Shen Shiqi, the father of the Han Dynasty, the Grand Duke, and his wife, Empress Lu, escaped from the trail and met the Chu army. Xiang Yu placed them as hostages in the army.
When the princes saw that the Han army was completely defeated, they all fled.
King Xin of Sai and King Yi of Zhai surrendered to Chu, and King Qiong of Yin died.
Zhou Luhou, the brother-in-law of the King of Han, led troops and horses to station in Xiayi County, and the King of Han went there to settle down.
Gradually the scattered soldiers were gathered and stationed in Dang County.
The king of Han went west through Liang and arrived at Yucheng County. He said to Sui He, who asked to see him, "Master, go and persuade Yingbu, king of Jiujiang, to raise an army to rebel against Chu. Xiang Yu will leave his troops to attack Yingbu."
As long as Xiang Yu can keep his troops for a few months, I will surely conquer the world.
Sui He was ordered to persuade Yingbu, and as expected, Yingbu rebelled against Chu.
In the fifth month, the troops of the King of Han were assembled in Xingyang. Xiao He recruited all the old, weak and underage people in Guanzhong to join his army.
Han Xin also gathered his soldiers to join forces with the King of Han. At this time, the King of Han regained his military power.
He fought with the Chu army between Jing and Suo in the south of Xingyang and defeated the Chu army.
The Han army built walls on both sides of the road leading to the river to transport grain from Aocang, which was near the river and leaning on the mountain.
At this time, Wei Wangbao asked for leave and returned to his hometown in the name of visiting his mother's illness.
After returning home, he blocked the ferry and defended the Chu army against the Han army.
In the sixth month, the king of Han returned to his capital, Yueyang. On the sixth day of the lunar month, he established the crown prince and pardoned the sinners.
He ordered all the sons of the princes in Guanzhong to gather in Yueyang as guards.
They diverted water to attack Feiqiu, but Feiqiu surrendered and King Yong Zhanghan committed suicide.
Yongzhou was pacified, and there were more than eighty counties, located on the river, Weinan, Zhongdi, Longxi, and Shangjun.
The ancestral officials were ordered to worship the mountains and rivers of gods in the four directions of heaven and earth, and to perform ancestral sacrifices on time.
Send sergeants from Guan to guard the border fortress.
summary:
Liu Ji's forces grew, and he captured Pengcheng, but Xiang Yu counterattacked, defeating him. Liu Ji regrouped in Xingyang, using strategies like Sui He persuading Yingbu to rebel. He faced a famine in Guanzhong and sent Han Xin to conquer Wei, Zhao, and Qi. After a series of battles, including the siege of Xingyang, Liu Ji escaped using a decoy. He regained Chenggao and confronted Xiang Yu at Guangwu, listing ten crimes. Xiang Yu shot him, but he feigned a minor injury.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
汉王病创卧，张良强请汉王起行劳军，以安士卒，毋令楚乘胜。
汉王出行军，疾甚，因驰入成皋。
十一月，韩信与灌婴击破楚军，杀楚将龙且，追至城阳，虏齐王广。
齐相田横自立为齐王，奔彭越。
汉立张耳为赵王。
汉王疾愈，西入关，至栎阳，存问父老，置酒。
枭故塞王欣头栎阳市。
留四日，复如军，军广武。
关中兵益出，而彭越、田横居梁地，往来苦楚兵，绝其粮食。
韩信已破齐，使人言曰： 齐边楚，权轻，不为假王，恐不能安齐。
汉王怒，欲攻之。
张良曰： 不如因而立之，使自为守。
春二月，遣张良操印，立韩信为齐王。
秋七月，立黥布为淮南王。
八月，初为算赋。
北貉、燕人来致枭骑助汉。
汉王下令：军士不幸死者，吏为衣衾棺敛，转送其家。
四方归心焉。
项羽自知少助食尽，韩信又进兵击楚，羽患之。
汉遣陆贾说羽，请太公，羽弗听。
汉复使侯公说羽，羽乃与汉约，中分天下，割鸿沟以西为汉，以东为楚。
九月，归太公、吕后，军皆称万岁。
乃封侯公为平国君。羽解而东归。汉王欲西归，张良、陈平谏曰： 今汉有天下太半，而诸侯皆附，楚兵罢食尽，此天亡之时，不因其几而遂取之，此养虎自遗患也。
汉王从之。
translation: 
The King of Han fell down due to an arrow injury. Zhang Liang asked the King of Han to get up and go to condolences the soldiers, so as to stabilize the soldiers and prevent the Chu army from attacking after the victory.
When the King of Han went to inspect the military camp, his condition worsened and he immediately rushed back to Chenggao.
In November, Han Xin and Guan Ying defeated the Chu army, killed the Chu army general Long Qie, chased them to Chengyang, and captured Qi Wang Tian Guang.
Tian Heng, Prime Minister of Qi, proclaimed himself King of Qi and defected to Peng Yue.
The king of Han made Zhang Er the king of Zhao.
After the King of Han recovered from his illness, he traveled westward to the Pass and came to Yueyang, where he visited the local elders and held a banquet.
The head of Sima Xin, the former king of Si, was cut off and hung in Yueyang Market for public display.
After staying for four days, he returned to the army and garrisoned in Guangwu.
Guanzhong soldiers rushed to the Chu-Han battlefield in large numbers, while Peng Yue and Tian Heng occupied the Liang area, attacking and harassing the Chu army and cutting off their food channels.
After Han Xin captured Qi, he sent someone to tell the king of Han: Qi is close to Chu and its power is too small. If I don't become an acting king, I'm afraid I won't be able to stabilize Qi.
The king of Han was furious and wanted to attack him.
Zhang Liang said: It is better to take the opportunity to make him the king of Qi and let him guard the land of Qi.
In the second month of spring, Zhang Liang was sent with the royal seal to make Han Xin the king of Qi.
In the seventh month of autumn, Yingbu was made King of Huainan.
In August, the calculation method began to be implemented.
The Beibei and Yan people sent a group of brave cavalry to assist the Han army.
The King of Han ordered: If a sergeant unfortunately dies in battle, a special person will be sent to dress him, put him in a coffin, and send him back to his hometown.
All the people in the world have sincerely surrendered.
Xiang Yu knew that he lacked helpers and was about to run out of food and grass. Han Xin led troops to attack the Chu army many times, and he was very worried.
The King of Han sent Duke Hou to Chu to persuade Xiang Yu to release the Grand Duke and Empress Lu.
So Xiang Yu and the King of Han agreed to divide the world equally, using the chasm as the dividing line, with the west returning to Han and the east returning to Chu.
In September, Xiang Yu released the Grand Duke and Empress Lu, led his soldiers to relieve the difficulties in Xingyang, and then returned eastward.
The King of Han also had plans to return west to Guanzhong, but Zhang Liang and Chen Ping dissuaded him, saying: The King of Han now owns most of the world, and princes from all over the country have come to join him. But now the Chu army is exhausted and has run out of ammunition and food. This is really the best opportunity given by God to destroy Chu. If we let go of Chu people at this time, we will be raising tigers and causing trouble.
The king of Han listened to their opinions.
summary:
Liu Ji recovered, made Han Xin King of Qi, and Yingbu King of Huainan. With Xiang Yu's resources dwindling, they agreed to divide the world using the chasm. However, Zhang Liang and Chen Ping advised Liu Ji to attack, leading to Xiang Yu's eventual defeat.

