Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖，沛丰邑中阳里人也，姓刘氏。
母媪尝息大泽之陂，梦与神遇。
是时雷电晦冥，父太公往视，则见交龙于上。
已而有娠，遂产高祖。
高祖为人，隆准而龙颜，美须髯，左股有七十二黑子。
宽仁爱人，意豁如也。
常有大度，不事家人生产作业。
及壮，试吏，为泗上亭长，廷中吏无所不狎侮。
好酒及色。
常从王媪、武负贳酒，时饮醉卧，武负、王媪见其上常有龙，怪之。
高祖每酤留饮，酒雠数倍。及见怪，岁竟，此两家常折券弃责。
高祖常徭咸阳，纵观秦皇帝，喟然大息，曰： 嗟乎，大丈夫当如此矣！
单父人吕公善沛令，辟仇，从之客，因家焉。
沛中豪杰吏闻令有重客，皆往贺。
萧何为主吏，主进，令诸大夫曰： 进不满千钱，坐之堂下。
高祖为亭长，素易诸吏，乃绐为谒曰 贺钱万 ，实不持一钱。
谒入，吕公大惊，起，迎之门。
吕公者，好相人，见高祖状貌，因重敬之，引入坐上坐。
萧何曰： 刘季固多大言，少成事。
高祖因狎侮诸客，遂坐上坐，无所诎。
酒阑，吕公因目固留高祖。
竟酒，后。吕公曰： 臣少好相人，相人多矣，无如季相，愿季自爱。臣有息女，愿为箕帚妾。
酒罢，吕媪怒吕公曰： 公始常欲奇此女，与贵人。
沛令善公，求之不与，何自妄许与刘季？
吕公曰： 此非兒女子所知。
translation: 
Han Gaozu was a native of Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County, and his surname was Liu.
His mother once closed her eyes and took a nap on the embankment of a pond, and unexpectedly met the god in her dream.
At that time, there was thunder and lightning and the sky was dark. His father Taigong went to Tangba to meet his mother and saw a dragon crawling on his mother's body.
Soon after, she became pregnant and gave birth to Han Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu had a high nose, raised eyebrows, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left thigh.
He is kind, generous and broad-minded.
Usually informal, but unwilling to engage in ordinary productive labor.
When he grew up, he served as a minor official and became the chief of Sishang Pavilion. But he looked down upon the officials in the government.
Emperor Gaozu loved wine and sex.
He often went to Wang Po and Wu Ma's hotel to buy wine on credit, and sometimes he was extremely drunk. Wang Po and Wu Ma saw strange phenomena appearing on his body while he was lying drunk.
Every time Gaozu drank wine on credit, the hotel always doubled the price of the wine. Later, seeing his mysterious atmosphere when he was drunk, when settling the wine bill at the end of the year, the two families often tore up the IOUs and waived his wine debt.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang, the capital of Qin, to do corvee service and saw the majesty of Qin Shihuang with his own eyes. He sighed and said: A real man should be like this!
Lu Gong of Shanfu County was a good friend of the magistrate of Pei County. Because he was hiding from his enemies, he stayed in the magistrate's apartment and later moved his family to Pei County.
Some prominent people in Peizhong heard that a friend of the county magistrate had moved to Pei, and they all went to congratulate him.
Xiao He is the county magistrate's assistant and is responsible for collecting gifts. I say to all the prominent figures: Anyone who can contribute less than one thousand yuan will sit down in the hall.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was the chief of the pavilion at this time. He usually looked down on these people, so he mischievously wrote his name on the red envelope and said "ten thousand yuan in congratulations", but actually did not give a penny.
When the gift package was delivered, Lu Gong was surprised to see the generous gift and went to the gate to greet him personally.
Lu Gong was good at fortune-telling, and when he saw Gaozu's extraordinary appearance, he also respected him very much. He led him into the living room and invited him to sit on the throne.
Xiao He said: Liu Ji usually only talks big words and seldom accomplishes good things.
Emperor Gaozu had long looked down on these prominent figures in the county, so he sat on the throne without humility and looked at ease.
When he was half drunk, Lu Gong asked Gaozu to stay with his eyes. When the banquet was over, he asked Gaozu to stay and slow down.
Lu Gong said to Emperor Gaozu: I have been studying physiognomy since I was young. I have seen many people, but none of them are as noble as yours. I hope you will take care of yourself. I have a biological daughter who is willing to marry you.
After the guests left, Ms. Lu yelled at Mr. Lu and said, "You always said that my daughter was blessed in life and would marry a noble man in the future."
Peiling is on good terms with you, but you want to marry my daughter but you refuse. Why do you want to marry me to Liu Ji today?
Lu Gong smiled and said: This is not what you women know.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
卒与高祖。
吕公女即吕后也，生孝惠帝、鲁元公主。
高祖尝告归之田。
吕后与两子居田中，有一老父过，请饮，吕后因餔之。
老父相后曰： 夫人天下贵人也。
令相两子，见孝惠帝，曰： 夫人所以贵者，乃此男也。
相鲁元公主，亦皆贵。
老父已去，高祖适从旁舍来，吕后具言： 客有过，相我子母皆大贵。
高祖问，曰： 未远。
乃追及，问老父。
老父曰： 乡者夫人兒子皆以君，君相贵不可言。
高祖乃谢曰： 诚如父言，不敢忘德。
及高祖贵，遂不知老父处。
高祖为亭长，乃以竹皮为冠，令求盗之薛治，时时冠之，及贵常冠，所谓 刘氏冠 也。
高祖以亭长为县送徒骊山，徒多道亡。
自度比至皆亡之，到丰西泽中亭，止饮，夜皆解纵所送徒，曰： 公等皆去，吾亦从此逝矣！
徒中壮士愿从者十余人。
高祖被酒，夜径泽中，令一人行前。
行前者还报曰： 前有大蛇当径，愿还。
高祖醉，曰： 壮士行，何畏！
乃前，拔剑斩蛇。蛇分为两，道开。
行数里，醉困卧。
后人来至蛇所，有一老妪夜哭。
人问妪何哭，妪曰： 人杀吾子。
人曰： 妪子何为见杀？
妪曰： 吾子，白帝子也，化为蛇当道，今者赤帝子斩之，故哭。
人乃以妪为不诚，欲苦之，妪因忽不见。
后人至，高祖觉。
translation: 
In the end, he married his daughter to Gaozu.
Gong Lu's daughter was later Empress Lu, and gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui of Han and Princess Lu Yuan.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty once resigned as the pavilion chief and went home to work on the farm.
Queen Lu and her two children lived in a small shed in the field. An old man who was passing by asked him for water, and Queen Lu even let him have a meal.
The father-in-law looked at Empress Lu's compliments and said: "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to look at the faces of the two children. He looked at Emperor Xiaohui and said: The reason why my wife became a noble person is because of this son.
He looked at Princess Lu Yuan again and said that she would be a noble person in the future.
After the father-in-law left, Gaozu returned from another farmhouse. Empress Lu told him about the past, saying that the father-in-law, my mother and my son were all high-ranking ministers.
Emperor Gaozu asked where his father-in-law was, and Empress Lu said: "He has not gone far."
Emperor Gaozu chased his father-in-law and asked him about his life.
The father-in-law said: Just now, I said that my wife and son are so noble in life, it is all due to your great blessing. Your life is priceless.
Emperor Gaozu quickly thanked him and said: "As the old gentleman said, I will always remember your kindness."
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, the whereabouts of this father-in-law was unknown.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was the chief of the pavilion and wore a bamboo hat. He sent the thief-catching pavilion soldiers to Xuedi to learn the craftsmanship of making bamboo hats. He often wore this kind of hat and still wore it when he was in a high position. Later, this kind of bamboo hat was called "Liu Shi Guan".
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty sent servants to Lishan Mountain for Peixian County as the pavilion chief. Many servants escaped on the way.
When he thought about Lishan, they might all run away, so he went to Fengxi Zezhong Pavilion, asked the servants to stop and rest, invited everyone to drink, and let all the servants go at night. He said: Everyone should just run away!
I will fly far away from now on!
Among the servants, there were more than ten vigorous men who were willing to go with Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu took advantage of the drunkenness and led everyone to escape from the Zezhong trail, and sent one person to explore the road ahead.
The pathfinder came back and reported: There is a big snake blocking the road ahead. Let's go back.
Emperor Gaozu said drunkenly: Warriors march forward, why should they be afraid?
So he went forward himself, drew his sword and killed the snake. The snake was cut into two pieces, and the road was passable.
After walking for several miles, Emperor Gaozu was drunk and sleepy, so he lay down on the road.
Someone caught up from behind and passed by where Gaozu killed the snake. He saw an old mother crying by the roadside at night.
The man asked the reason, and the old mother said: Someone else killed my son.
This person said: Who killed my mother’s son?
The old mother said: My child is the son of the White Emperor. He turned into a big snake and blocked the road. When he met the son of the Red Emperor, he was beheaded, so I am crying here.
This person thought that the old mother was talking nonsense and wanted to cross-examine her, but she disappeared in the blink of an eye.
When this man caught up with Gaozu, Gaozu had already woken up.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
告高祖，高祖乃心独喜，自负。
诸从者日益畏之。
秦始皇帝尝曰 东南有天子气 ，于是东游以当之。
高祖隐于芒、砀山泽间，吕后与人俱求，常得之。
高祖怪问吕后，后曰： 季所居上常有云气，故从往常得季。
高祖又喜。
沛中子弟或闻之，多欲附者。
秦二世元年秋七月，陈涉起蕲。
至陈，自立为楚王，遣武臣、张耳、陈馀略赵地。
八月，武臣自立为赵王。
郡县多杀长吏以应涉。
九月，沛令欲以沛应之。掾、主吏萧何、曹参曰： 君为秦吏，今欲背之，帅沛子弟，恐不听。
愿君召诸亡在外者，可得数百人，因以劫众，众不敢不听。
乃令樊哙召高祖。
高祖之众已数百人矣。
于是樊哙从高祖来。沛令后悔，恐其有变，乃闭城城守，欲诛萧、曹。
萧、曹恐，逾城保高祖。
高祖乃书帛射城上，与沛父老曰： 天下同苦秦久矣。
今父老虽为沛令守，诸侯并起，今屠沛。
沛今共诛令，择可立立之，以应诸侯，即室家完。不然，父子俱屠，无为也。
父老乃帅子弟共杀沛令，开城门迎高祖，欲以为沛令。
高祖曰： 天下方扰，诸侯并起，今置将不善，一败涂地。
吾非敢自爱，恐能薄，不能完父兄子弟。
此大事，愿更择可者。
萧、曹皆文吏，自爱，恐事不就，后秦种族其家，尽让高祖。
诸父老皆曰： 平生所闻刘季奇怪，当贵，且卜筮之，莫如刘季最吉。
translation: 
This person told Gaozu about this, and Gaozu was secretly happy and believed that he would become a big success.
Those who followed him also grew in awe of him.
Qin Shihuang once heard someone say: There is the emperor's cloud in the southeast. So the First Emperor made an eastward tour to suppress this cloud.
Emperor Gaozu sometimes hid in the mountains and rivers of Mangdang. When Empress Lu and others went to look for him, it was always easy to find him.
Emperor Gaozu felt strange and asked the reason. Queen Lu said: There is a layer of clouds above where you are staying. If you look for the place where the clouds are, you will find it.
Gaozu was very happy again.
The children of Peizhong also heard this legend, and many people wanted to attach themselves to him.
In the autumn and seventh month of the first year of Qin II, Chen She revolted in Qixian County, arrived in Chendi, and proclaimed himself the king of Chu.
He sent Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu to capture Zhao's territory.
In August, Wu Chen proclaimed himself King of Zhao.
In various counties and counties, major officials were killed one after another in response to Chen She.
In September, the magistrate of Peixian County wanted to respond to Chen She in Peixian County. His aides Xiao He and Cao Shen came forward and said: As an official of the Qin Dynasty, you now want to betray the Qin Dynasty and lead the children of Peizhong to revolt. I am afraid that everyone will not listen.
I hope you can recruit those who have fled, and you can get hundreds of people. With the power of these people, you can appeal to the worried children of Peizhong, and the children of Peizhong will not dare not listen.
So the magistrate of Peixian County sent Fan Kuai to invite Gaozu.
At this time, Gaozu already had hundreds of people.
When Fan Kuai and Gaozu came with their troops, Peiling went back on his word. He was afraid that Gaozu would seize his power, so he closed the city and wanted to kill Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were afraid and secretly crossed the city wall to seek refuge with Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu then wrote a silk book and shot it on the city. The book told the elders of Peixian County: The whole world has been bullied by the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
Although you, the elders, are guarding the city for Pei Ling today, as soon as the rebels from various places arrive, they will use force in Pei land.
If you can kill Pei Ling now, elect a leader who is popular among the people, and join the rebel army, you can ensure the safety of your family. Otherwise, the whole family will suffer, which is meaningless.
So the elders of Peizhong led their children to kill Peiling, opened the city gate to welcome Gao Zu, and recommended Gao Zu to be the magistrate of Peixian County.
Emperor Gaozu thanked him and said: Today is a time of great chaos in the world, and heroes are revolting one after another. If the leaders are not selected properly, they will be completely defeated.
I am not a person who is greedy for life and afraid of death, but I am deeply afraid that my virtue and ability will be shallow and I will not be able to protect you, my fathers and brothers.
This is a big deal, please choose another capable person.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were both civil servants. They were worried about their wealth and life. They were afraid that if they failed to do something, the Qin Dynasty would exterminate the nine tribes in the future, they tried their best to recommend Gaozu.
The elders of Peixian County all said: If you hear some strange things about Liu Ji, you may become a nobleman. We have asked the gods for divination, and they all said that there is no one more suitable than Liu Ji.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
高祖数让，众莫肯为，高祖乃立为沛公。
祠黄帝，祭蚩尤于沛廷，而衅鼓旗。
帜皆赤，由所杀蛇白帝子，杀者赤帝子故也。
于是少年豪吏如萧、曹、樊哙等皆为收沛子弟，得三千人。
是月，项梁与兄子羽起吴。
田儋与从弟荣、横起齐，自立为齐王。
韩广自立为燕王。
魏咎自立为魏王。
陈涉之将周章西入关，至戏，秦将章邯距破之。
秦二年十月，沛公攻胡陵、方与，还守丰。
秦泗川监平将兵围丰。
二日，出与战，破之。令雍齿守丰。
十一月，沛公引兵之薛。
秦泗川守壮兵败于薛，走至戚，沛公左司马得杀之。
沛公还军亢父，至方与。
赵王武臣为其将所杀。
十二月，楚王陈涉为其御所杀。
魏人周巿略地丰、沛，使人谓雍齿曰： 丰，故梁徙也。
今魏地已定者数十城，齿今下魏，魏以齿为侯守丰；不下，且屠丰。
雍齿雅不欲属沛公，及魏招之，即反为魏守丰。
沛公攻丰，不能取。
沛公还之沛，怨雍齿与丰子弟畔之。
正月，张耳等立赵后赵歇为赵王。
东阳甯君、秦嘉立景驹为楚王，在留。沛公往从之，道得张良，遂与俱见景驹，请兵以攻丰。
时章邯从陈，别将司马将兵北定楚地，屠相，至砀。
东阳甯君、沛公引兵西，与战萧西，不利，还收兵聚留。
二月，攻砀，三日拔之。收砀兵，得六千人，与故合九千人。
三月，攻下邑，拔之。
还击丰，不下。
四月，项梁击杀景驹、秦嘉，止薛，沛公往见之。项梁益沛公卒五千人，五大夫将十人。
沛公还，引兵攻丰，拔之。
雍齿奔魏。
五月，项羽拔襄城还。
translation: 
Gaozu resigned many times, but everyone disagreed, so Gaozu was elected as Duke of Pei.
Memorial ceremonies were held in Peiting to honor the ancient emperors Huangdi and Chiyou.
And sacrifice blood to flags and drums. The flags are all red, because the snake killed is the son of the White Emperor, and the person who kills the snake with the sword is the son of the Red Emperor.
So young powerful officials such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai, etc. all recruited children from Peixian County, and the rebel army quickly expanded to 3,000 people.
In the same month, Xiang Liang and his brother Xiang Yu rebelled against Wu.
Tian Dan and his cousins ​​Tian Rong and Tian Heng raised troops in Qi and proclaimed themselves king of Qi.
Han Guang established himself as King of Yan.
Wei Jiu established himself as King of Wei.
Chen She's general Zhou Zhang entered Hangu Pass in the west and went to play in the water. Qin general Zhang Han met the enemy and defeated Zhou Zhang.
In October of the second year of Qin II, Peigong returned to Fengyi after attacking Huling and Fangyu.
Qin Sichuan Jianping led troops to surround Feng.
The next day, Pei Gong sent troops to fight, defeated the Qin army, and sent Yong Chi to guard Feng.
In November, Duke Pei led his troops to Xue.
The troops guarding Zhuang in Sichuan of Qin were defeated. Zhuang fled to Qi and was killed by Zuo Sima De of Peigong.
Pei Gong's soldiers returned to Kang's father and went to Fang Yu.
The military minister of King Zhao was killed by his generals.
In December, King Chen She of Chu was killed by his charioteer Zhuang Jia.
Wei general Zhou captured Fengfei and sent someone to tell Yong Chi: Feng was once the temporary capital of Wei. Today, dozens of cities in Wei have been recaptured.
If General Yong can submit to Wei, Wei will appoint you as a marquis to guard Fengdi; if you do not submit, Wei soldiers will massacre the city.
Yong Chiping had never wanted to be subordinate to Pei Gong. When Wei Zhao surrendered, he submitted to Wei and became Wei Shoufeng.
Pei Gong attacked Feng but was unable to capture it.
The Duke of Pei led his troops back to Pei, resenting the rebellion of Yong Chi and Feng's disciples.
In the first month of the third year of Qin II, Zhang Er and others established the State of Zhao, and Zhao Xie became the king of Zhao.
Dongyang Ningjun and Qin Jiali made Jingju the king of Chu and stationed in Liu County. Pei Gong went to join Jingju. When he met Zhang Liang on the road, they went to see Jingju together and asked Jingju to send troops to attack Fengyi.
At this time, Zhang Han was chasing Chen Sheng's army. Another general, Sima Yi, led his troops to the north to pacify Chu, massacred Xiang County, and reached Dang County.
Dongyang Ningjun and Peigong led their troops to the west and fought with Sima Yi to the west of Suxian County. Unable to win, they returned to collect soldiers and gathered in Liuxian County.
In February, he attacked Dang County, captured Dang City in three days, and gathered the troops guarding Dang, gaining 6,000 men. A total of nine thousand people joined the original three thousand people.
In March, he captured Yi County and won.
Returned to attack Feng, but failed to win.
In April, Xiang Liang killed Jingju and Qin Jia and stationed troops in Xue. Pei Gong went to Xue Jin to see Xiang Liang.
After Pei Gong returned to his original place, he led his troops to attack Feng and regained Feng County.
Yong Chi fled to Wei.
In May, Xiang Yu returned after capturing Xiangcheng.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
项梁尽召别将。
六月，沛公如薛，与项梁共立楚怀王孙心为楚怀王。
章邯破杀魏王咎、齐王田儋于临济。
七月，大霖雨。
沛公攻亢父。
章邯围田荣于东阿。沛公与项梁共救田荣，大破章邯东阿。
田荣归，沛公、项羽追北，至城阳，攻屠其城。军濮阳东，复与章邯战，又破之。
章邯复振，守濮阳，环水。
沛公、项羽去攻定陶。
八月，田荣立田儋子市为齐王。
定陶未下，沛公与项羽西略地至雍丘，与秦军战，大败之，斩三川守李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
项梁再破秦军，有骄色。
宋义谏，不听。
秦益章邯兵。
九月，章邯夜衔枚击项梁定陶，大破之，杀项梁。
时连雨自七月至九月。
沛公、项羽方攻陈留，闻梁死，士卒恐，乃与将军吕臣引兵而东，徙怀王自盱台都彭城。
吕臣军彭城东，项羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
魏咎弟豹自立为魏王。
后九月，怀王并吕臣、项羽军自将之。以沛公为砀郡长，封武安侯，将砀郡兵。
以羽为鲁公，封长安侯。吕臣为司徒，其父吕青为令尹。
章邯已破项梁，以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河北击赵王歇，大破之。
歇保巨鹿城，秦将王离围之。
赵数请救，怀王乃以宋义为上将，项羽为次将，范增为末将，北救赵。
初，怀王与诸将约，先入定关中者王之。
当是时，秦兵强，常乘胜逐北，诸将莫利先入关。
独羽怨秦破项梁，奋势，愿与沛公西入关。
怀王诸老将皆曰： 项羽为人慓悍祸贼，尝攻襄城，襄城无噍类，所过无不残灭。
且楚数进取，前陈王、项梁皆败，不如更遣长者扶义而西，告谕秦父兄。
translation: 
Xiang Liang recalled all the young generals who were elsewhere.
In the sixth month, Duke Pei arrived in Xuedi, and together with Xiang Liang, he made Sun Mixin, the king of Chu Huai, the king of Chu Huai.
Qin general Zhang Han broke out and killed Wei Wang Jiu and Qi Wang Tian Dan in Linji.
In July, it rained continuously.
Duke Pei attacked Kang's father.
Zhang Han surrounded Qi general Tian Rong in Dong'a County. Peigong and Xiang Liang led troops to rescue Tian Rong and defeated Qin general Zhang Han in Dong'a.
Tian Rong led his troops back, and Peigong and Xiang Yu pursued the Qin soldiers to Chengyang County. They bloodbathed Chengyang and garrisoned in the east of Puyang. They fought against Zhang Han again and defeated the Qin soldiers again.
Zhang Han regained his strength and defended Puyang, digging trenches to divert water and stabilize himself.
Peigong and Xiang Yu then moved their troops to attack Dingtao.
In August, Tian Rong established Tian Dan Zi Tian Shi as the King of Qi.
Before Dingtao was captured, Peigong and Xiang Yu took the land to Yongqiu, fought with the Qin soldiers, defeated the Qin soldiers, and killed Li You, the governor of Sanchuan.
Returned to attack Waihuang, but failed to capture it.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army twice and showed his pride.
Song Yi reminded him, but Xiang Liang didn't listen.
The Qin Dynasty sent additional troops to Zhang Han.
In September, Zhang Han secretly attacked Xiang Liang's garrison in Dingtao in the dark, defeated Xiang Liang's army, and killed Xiang Liang.
It was rainy and rainy from July to September.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu were attacking Chenliu. When they heard that Xiang Liang was dead, the soldiers were frightened, so they and their general Lu Chen led troops eastward and moved King Huai of Chu from Xuyi to Pengcheng.
Lu Chen garrisoned to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu garrisoned to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong garrisoned to Dang County.
Wei Bao, Wei Jiu's younger brother, established himself as King of Wei.
In the ninth month of the leap year, King Huai merged the armies of Lu Chen and Xiang Yu and put him under his direct command. He appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an to command the troops of Dang County.
Xiang Yu was appointed Duke of Lu, Marquis of Chang'an, Lu Chen was appointed Situ, and Lu Chen's father Lu Qing was appointed Ling Yin.
After Qin general Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang, he thought that the rebel Qin forces in Chu were no longer a threat, so he crossed the river and went north to attack Zhao Wangxie and defeated Zhao Wangxie.
King Zhao retreated to defend Julu City, and Qin General Wang Li's troops surrounded Julu.
King Zhao asked King Huai of Chu for help many times, and King Huai appointed Song Yi as general, Xiang Yu as deputy general, and Fan Zeng as junior general. Lead the troops north to rescue Zhao Jun.
Originally, King Huai had made an appointment with the generals, and whoever could conquer Guanzhong first would be crowned king.
During this period, the Qin army was powerful and often took advantage of its victory to pursue the rebels. The generals were afraid of its power and did not dare to enter the pass.
Only Xiang Yu hated the Qin army for defeating and killing Xiang Liang. He was very angry and was willing to enter the pass with Peigong west.
Some of King Huai's veterans said: What kind of person is Xiang Yu? He was fierce and good at killing. When Xiangcheng was captured, there were almost no survivors in Xiangcheng. Everywhere Xiang Yu passed by was destroyed.
Moreover, the Chu army's many attempts to advance against the former Chu kings Chen She and Xiang Liang all ended in failure. It would be better to send another generous elder to march westward with righteousness and inform the fathers and brothers of Qin.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
秦父兄苦其主久矣，今诚得长者往，毋侵暴，宜可下。
项羽不可遣，独沛公素宽大长者。
卒不许羽，而遣沛公西收陈王、项梁散卒。
乃道砀至城阳与杠里，攻秦军壁，破其二军。
秦三年十月，齐将田都畔田荣，将兵助项羽救赵。
沛公攻破东郡尉于成武。
十一月，项羽杀宋义，并其兵渡河，自立为上将军，诸将黥布等皆属。
十二月，沛公引兵至栗，遇刚武侯，夺其军四千余人，并之，与魏将皇欣、武满军合攻秦军，破之。
故齐王建孙田安下济北，从项羽救赵。
羽大破秦军巨鹿下，虏王离，走章邯。
二月，沛公从砀北攻昌邑，遇彭越。
越助攻昌邑，未下。
沛公西过高阳，郦食其为里监门，曰： 诸将过此者多，吾视沛公大度。
乃求见沛公。
沛公方踞床，使两女子洗。
郦生不拜，长揖曰： 足下必欲诛无道秦，不宜踞见长者。
于是沛公起，摄衣谢之，延上坐。
食其说沛公袭陈留。
沛公以为广野君，以其弟商为将，将陈留兵。
三月，攻开封，未拔。
西与秦将杨熊会战白马，又战曲遇东，大破之。
杨熊走之荥阳，二世使使斩之以徇。
四月，南攻颍川，屠之。
因张良遂略韩地。
时赵别将司马卬方欲渡河入关，沛公乃北攻平阴，绝河津。
南，战雒阳东，军不利，从轘辕至阳城，收军中马骑。
六月，与南阳守齮战犨东，破之。略南阳郡，南阳守走，保城守宛。
沛公引兵过宛西。张良谏曰： 沛公虽欲急入关，秦兵尚众，距险。
translation: 
The people of Qin have suffered from the Qin Dynasty for a long time. If there is an elder who leads the army and does not attack Qiu, Xianyang, the capital of Qin, should be able to be captured.
Xiang Yu cannot take on this responsibility. Only Peiping has always been a tolerant and kind person.
In the end, King Huai did not agree with Xiang Yu's march westward, and sent Pei Gong to the west to collect the scattered troops of Chen She and Xiang Liang.
So Peigong set out from Dangdi, went to Chengyang and Gangli, attacked the Qin army's defenses, and defeated the defenders of the two places.
In October of the third year of Qin II, Qi general Tian Du rebelled against Qi King Tian Rong. Tian Du led troops to help Xiang Yu rescue Zhao.
Pei Gong defeated Qin Dongjun's troops in Chengwu.
In November, Xiang Yu killed General Song Yi, annexed Song Yi's army, crossed the Yellow River, and proclaimed himself General. Song Yi's original generals, such as Ying Bu, were all placed under Xiang Yu's command.
In December, Peigong led his troops to Li County, where he met Gangwuhou, the general of King Huai of Chu. He also captured the 4,000 troops he led, and formed an army to join the troops of Wei generals Huangxin and Wuman. They attacked the Qin army and defeated the Qin army.
Former Qi King Tian Jian's grandson Tian'an led troops from Jibei to follow Xiang Yu to rescue Zhao.
Xiang Yu defeated the Qin army at Julu, captured Qin general Wang Li, and Qin general Zhang Han escaped.
In February, Duke Pei set out from Dang to attack Changyi and met Peng Yue.
Peng Yue helped Pei Gong attack Changyi, but failed to capture it.
Peigong passed through Gaoyang to the west. Li Shiqi was a guard in Gaoyang. He said: There are many generals passing through Gaoyang. I think Peigong is magnanimous.
So he asked to see Pei Gong.
At this time, Pei Gong was sitting on the bed. He ordered two women to wash his feet.
Li Shiqi did not pay his respects, but bowed his hands and said: "If you really want to overthrow the ruthless Qin, you should not sit down to receive the elders."
After hearing this, Duke Pei stood up, straightened his clothes, expressed his apology, and asked to take a seat.
Shi Qi suggested that Pei Gong attack Chen Liu.
Pei Gong appointed him as Lord of Guangye. His younger brother Li Shang was made a general and led Chen Liu's army.
In March, they attacked Kaifeng County but failed to capture it.
He led his troops westward to fight with Qin general Yang Xiong in Baima County, and then fought in the east of Quyu, defeating the Qin army.
Yang Xiong was defeated and went to Xingyang. Qin II sent people to behead the defeated general Yang Xiong in public.
In April, Duke Pei attacked Yingchuan from the south and went on a killing spree.
Then use Zhang Liang's power to attack Han.
Sima, who was serving as General Zhao at this time? Just as he was about to cross the Yellow River and enter Hangu Pass, Peigong attacked Pingyin from the north and cut off the Yellow River crossing.
He led his troops to the south and fought with the Qin troops east of Luoyang, but suffered a slight setback. He went from the dangerous road of Yuanyuan to Yangcheng to collect the horses and cavalry needed by the army.
In June, he fought with Qin Nanyang County Shou Chiqi in the east of Tao County, defeated the Qin army and occupied Nanyang County. The Nanyang County governor fled and defended Wancheng.
When Pei Gong led his troops to the west through Wancheng, Zhang Liang admonished him and said: Although Pei Gong is eager to attack Hangu Pass, there are still many Qin soldiers and they are reluctant to resist.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今不下宛，宛从后击，强秦在前，此危道也。
于是沛公乃夜引军从他道还，偃旗帜，迟明，围宛城三匝。
南阳守欲自刭，其舍人陈恢曰： 死未晚也。
乃逾城见沛公，曰： 臣闻足下约先入咸阳者王之，今足下留守宛。
宛郡县连城数十，其吏民自以为降必死，故皆坚守乘城。
今足下尽日止攻，士死伤者必多；引兵去，宛必随足下。
前则失咸阳之约，后有强宛之患。
为足下计，莫若约降，封其守，因使止守，引其甲卒与之西。
诸城未下者，闻声争开门而待足下，足下通行无所累。 沛公曰： 善。
七月，南阳守齮降，封为殷侯，封陈恢千户。
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鳃、襄侯王陵降。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与偕攻析、郦，皆降。
所过毋得卤掠，秦民喜。遣魏人甯昌使秦。
是月，章邯举军降项羽，羽以为雍王。
瑕丘申阳下河南。
八月，沛公攻武关，入秦。
秦相赵高恐，乃杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中，沛公不许。
九月，赵高立二世兄子子婴为秦王。
子婴诛灭赵高，遣将将兵距峣关。
沛公欲击之，张良曰： 秦兵尚强，未可轻。
愿先遣人益张旗帜于山上为疑兵，使郦食其、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利。
秦将果欲连和，沛公欲许之。
张良曰： 此独其将欲叛，恐其士卒不从，不如因其怠懈击之。
沛公引兵绕峣关，逾蒉山，击秦军，大破之蓝田南。遂至蓝田，又战其北，秦兵大败。
元年冬十月，五星聚于东井。
沛公至霸上。秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺、符、节、降枳道旁。诸将或言诛秦王，沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容，且人已服降，杀之不祥。
translation: 
If we do not capture Wancheng now, if Qin Dynasty is strong enough to defend in front of us and Wan soldiers attack behind us, this will be a dangerous road.
Pei Gong led his troops to detour and attack Wancheng at night. All flags and drums ceased, and before dawn, Wancheng was surrounded by three layers.
The governor of Nanyang County wanted to kill himself, but his close aide Chen Hui said: It is not time to die yet.
So Chen Hui went across the city to see Pei Gong. He said: I heard that I have made an appointment with someone: the man who first entered Xianyang, the capital of Qin, honored me as king, and now I am attacking Wancheng.
There were dozens of strongholds in Wan County. The soldiers guarding the city thought they would be executed if they surrendered, so they all climbed to the city to defend it.
If the troops attack all day long, both sides will suffer a lot of casualties; if they give up attacking Wan and lead their troops westward, the Qin soldiers in Wan will be completely behind them.
A single attack on Wan would delay the promise that whoever enters Xianyang first would be the king; a single step of abandoning Wan would leave behind the possibility of pursuers.
For the sake of his subordinates, it is better for me to allow the Wancheng garrison to surrender, make the county garrison a marquis, and still order him to stay where he is. Move his forces westward.
The cities in the front that have not yet been captured will definitely respond to the news and welcome the next step. You will be able to pass smoothly with just one step without any worries. Pei Gong said: Very good.
In the seventh month, the governor of Nanyang, Ji Qi, surrendered. Pei Gong granted him the title of Marquis of Yin, and granted Chen Hui the title of Qianhu.
Leading troops to the west, the momentum is like breaking bamboo.
When the troops arrived at Danshui, Qin Gao Wuhou Ji and Xianghou Wang Ling surrendered.
Returning to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Jie and joined forces with him to attack Zhe County and Li County, but they all surrendered.
Pei Gong ordered the troops not to plunder wherever they passed. The people of Qin welcomed him very much and sent Wei people Ningchang to Qin to persuade them to surrender.
In the same month, Qin general Zhang Han led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu, and Xiang Yu named Zhang Han King Yong.
Xiaqiu Gong Shenyang captured Henan.
In August, Peigong captured Wuguan. Entering the suburbs of Qin.
Qin Prime Minister Zhao Gao was frightened, so he killed Qin II and sent an envoy to see Pei Gong, wanting to make an agreement to divide the Guanzhong land equally, but Pei Gong refused.
In September, Zhao Gao made Ziying, the son of his second brother, king.
Ziying killed Zhao Gao and sent generals to lead troops to guard Shanyao Pass.
Pei Gong wanted to attack, but Zhang Liang stopped him and said: Qin's army is strong and should not be underestimated.
It is suggested to send people to plant more flags on the nearby mountains to make the soldiers suspicious, and then send Li Shiqi and Lu Jia to the Qin camp to act as lobbyists to lure them.
The general of Qin really wanted to make peace with Pei Gong, and Pei Gong agreed.
Zhang Liang said: This is just a buffer strategy for Qin's generals who want to rebel against Qin and are afraid that their soldiers will not obey. It is better to take advantage of Qin's unpreparedness and launch an attack.
So Peigong led his troops to bypass Shanyao Pass, cross the Huangshan Mountains, and attack the Qin army. Then they marched to Lantian and attacked from the north. The Qin army was defeated again.
In the tenth month of winter in the first year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong led his troops to reach Bashui River.
Qin Prince Ying drove a plain chariot and a white horse, with a ribbon tied around his neck, and the emperor's jade seal seal, and surrendered to Pei Gong beside the Zhidao Pavilion. Some of the generals suggested that Pei Gong kill the King of Qin. Pei Gong said: Originally, the reason why King Huai of Chu sent me to pass was because I can tolerate people. Besides, the King of Qin has surrendered, so it is not good to kill him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
乃以属吏。
遂西入咸阳。欲止宫休舍，樊哙、张良谏，乃封秦重宝财物府库，还军霸上。
萧何尽收秦丞相府图籍文书。
十一月，召诸县豪桀曰： 父老苦秦苛法久矣，诽谤者族，耦语者弃市。
吾与诸侯约，先入关者王之，吾当王关中。
与父老约法三章耳：杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
余悉除去秦法。
吏民皆按堵如故。
凡吾所以来，为父兄除害，非有所侵暴，毋恐！
且吾所以军霸上，待诸侯至而定要束耳。
乃使人与秦吏行至县、乡、邑告谕之。
秦民大喜，争持牛、羊、酒食献享军士。
沛公让不受，曰： 仓粟多，不欲费民。
民又益喜，唯恐沛公不为秦王。
或说沛公曰： 秦富十倍天下，地形强。今闻章邯降项羽，羽号曰雍王，王关中。
即来，沛公恐不得有此。
可急使守函谷关，毋内诸侯军，稍征关中兵以自益，距之。
沛公然其计，从之。
十二月，项羽果帅诸侯兵欲西入关，关门闭。
闻沛公已定关中，羽大怒，使黥布等攻破函谷关，遂至戏下。
沛公左司马曹毋伤闻羽怒，欲攻沛公，使人言羽曰： 沛公欲王关中，令子婴相，珍宝尽有之。
欲以求封。
亚父范增说羽曰： 沛公居山东时，贪财好色。今闻其入关，珍物无所取，妇女无所幸，此其志不小。
translation: 
So Ru Ziying was handed over to the custody of the primary school.
Then he went west to Xianyang. After arriving at the capital of Qin, Duke Pei wanted to go to the Qin Palace to rest, but Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang tried to dissuade him. After the Duke of Pei sealed up the important property treasury of the capital of Qin, he returned his army to Bashang.
Xiao He collected all the pictures and files in Prime Minister Qin's mansion.
In November, Pei Gong convened a meeting of heroes from various counties in Qin and said: You elders have suffered from the Qin Dynasty's cruel methods for a long time. At that time, the person who committed the crime of defamation was punished, as well as his parents and wife. The two people who opposed the comment were beheaded in public.
I have made an appointment with the princes who are against Qin, and the one who enters the pass first will be the king. I will enter the pass first and become the king in the pass.
Now I declare to you elders that there are three laws: murderers must be punished with their lives, and those who injure others and rob must be punished according to the circumstances.
All other Qin Dynasty laws were abolished.
The officials and subjects of Qin must obey discipline and follow their own professions.
The reason why I led the troops into the pass was to help my father and brothers eliminate harm. I will never act tyrannically here, so I hope you don’t be alarmed.
The reason why I am currently garrisoning troops in Bashang is to wait for the various rebel princes to arrive and execute the three chapters of the agreement together.
Immediately, he sent people to go down to the counties and villages with the old officials of the Qin Dynasty to inform the people.
The people of Qin were overjoyed and rushed to lead their cattle and sheep, and brought wine and food to reward Pei Gong's soldiers.
Pei Gong refused again and again. He said: "Qin's treasury has a lot of food, and I really don't dare to increase the burden on the people."
The people of Qin were even more grateful and deeply afraid that Pei Gong would not become the king of Guanzhong.
Someone suggested to Pei Gong: The wealth of Qin is ten times that of the world, and the geographical situation is dangerous. Now I heard that Qin General Zhang Han surrendered to Xiang Yu. Xiang Yu gave him the title of King Yong and sent him to Guanzhong to be king.
If he arrives, Pei Gong may not be able to own this place.
We should quickly send troops to guard Hangu Pass, do not let the troops of the princes come in, recruit some soldiers from the pass to strengthen the force, and prevent Zhang Han from outside the pass.
Peigong thought his plan was very good, so he obeyed.
In December, Xiang Yu led the troops of the princes to enter the pass, and Han Valley was closed.
Xiang Yu was furious when he learned that Pei Gong had decided to pass the pass, and sent Yingbu and others to attack Hangu Pass and reach Xixia.
Cao Wushang, the left Sima of Pei Gong, heard that Xiang Yu was angry and wanted to attack Pei Gong, so he sent a secret report to Xiang Yu, saying: Pei Gong wants to be the king of Guanzhong. He asked Qin Wang Ruziying to be his prime minister. Now he has all the treasures of the Qin capital.
He wanted to use the secret report to obtain the title given to him by Xiang Yu.
Fan Zeng, Ya's father, suggested to Xiang Yu: When Pei Gong was in Shandong, he was greedy for money and lustful. Now I heard that after he entered the customs, he did not take away treasures and treasures, and kept away from beautiful women. It seems that his ambition is not small.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
吾使人望其气，皆为龙，成五色，此天子气。
急击之，勿失。
于是飨士，旦日合战。
是时，羽兵四十万，号百万。
沛公兵十万，号二十万，力不敌。
会羽季父左尹项伯素善张良，夜驰见张良，具告其实，欲与俱去，毋特俱死。
良曰： 臣为韩王送沛公，不可不告，亡去不义。
乃与项伯俱见沛公。
沛公与伯约为婚姻，曰： 吾入关，秋毫无所敢取，籍吏民，封府库，待将军。
所以守关者，备他盗也。
日夜望将军到，岂敢反邪！
愿伯明言不敢背德。
项伯许诺，即夜复去，戒沛公曰： 旦日不可不早自来谢。 项伯还，具以沛公言告羽，因曰： 沛公不先破关中兵，公巨能入乎？
且人有大功，击之不祥，不如因善之。
羽许诺。
沛公旦日从百余骑见羽鸿门，谢曰： 臣与将军戮力攻秦，将军战河北，臣战河南，不自意先入关，能破秦，与将军复相见。
今者有小人言，令将军与臣有隙。
羽曰： 此沛公左司马曹毋伤言之，不然，籍何以至此？
羽因留沛公饮。
范增数目羽击沛公，羽不应。
范增起，出谓项庄曰： 君王为人不忍，汝入以剑舞，因击沛公，杀之。
不者，汝属且为所虏。
庄入为寿。
寿毕，曰： 军中无以为乐，请以剑舞。
因拔剑舞。
项伯亦起舞，常以身翼蔽沛公。
樊哙闻事急，直入，怒甚。
羽壮之，赐以酒。
哙因谯让羽。
translation: 
I once sent someone to look at the clouds above his head. The clouds were like dragons and brilliant in five colors. This was the aura of an emperor.
We must attack as early as possible to avoid causing trouble in the future.
So Xiang Yu rewarded his soldiers and ordered them to fight tomorrow.
At this time, Xiang Yu had an army of 400,000, which was said to be one million.
Pei Gong had 100,000 soldiers, and he claimed to have 200,000 soldiers. There was a huge disparity in military strength.
Xiang Yu's uncle Zuo Yin, Xiang Bo, was Zhang Liang's old friend. He met Zhang Liang overnight and told Xiang Yu in detail the military facts of tomorrow's attack on Pei Gong. He wanted Zhang Liang to escape the danger with him so that he would not have to die with Pei Gong.
Zhang Liang said: I am here as an envoy of the King of Han to submit to Pei Gong. I cannot leave without saying goodbye. It is unjust to say goodbye without saying goodbye.
So he and Xiang Bo went to see Pei Gong.
Pei Gong and Xiang Bo were about to get married, and he said to Xiang Bo: After I entered the pass, I didn't dare to take away anything. I kept the records of the officials and people, and sealed the Qin Dynasty's treasury to wait for General Xiang Yu.
The reason why I sent troops to guard the pass is to guard against other thieves.
How dare you have any evil intentions when you look forward to General Xiang's arrival day and night.
Xiang Bo nodded in agreement and returned to the camp overnight.
Before leaving, he warned Pei Gong: "You must pay homage to Xiang Yu as soon as possible tomorrow morning." After Xiang Bo returned to the camp, he relayed the details to Xiang Yu and continued: If Pei Gong had not defeated the Qin army in Guanzhong first, would you have been able to reach Guanzhong so smoothly?
What's more, Peigong has great achievements and attacking him is unpopular. It is better to take this opportunity to show friendship to him.
Xiang Yu agreed.
Early in the morning, Pei Gong led his entourage of more than a hundred horses to see Xiang Yu at Hongmen. He paid homage to Xiang Yu and said: The general and the general worked together to attack Qin. The general moved to Hebei and the last general fought in Henan. Unintentionally, he entered Guanzhong first and defeated the Qin Dynasty. We can join forces with the general here.
Today, there are villains who are slandering and causing discord between the general and the last general.
Xiang Yu said: This is the news from Pei Gongzuo Sima Cao Wushang. Otherwise, why would I, Xiang Yu, take such action?
Xiang Yu kept Pei Gong to drink.
Fan Zeng repeatedly signaled Xiang Yu to kill Pei Gong with his eyes, but Xiang Yu ignored him.
Fan Zeng left the banquet, went out and said to Xiang Zhuang: "General Xiang Yu is a ruthless man. You go to the banquet and dance with your sword to cheer up the wine. You will take the opportunity to stab Pei Gong and kill him."
Otherwise, you and I will be his prisoners.
Xiang Zhuang sat down to toast the host and guest to celebrate their birthday.
After toasting, he said: There is nothing to enjoy in the army, so I would like to dance with the sword to help the wine.
Then he drew his sword and danced.
Xiang Bo also drew his sword and danced, often using himself to protect Pei Gong.
When Fan Kuai learned that the situation was urgent, he rushed to the banquet with eyes wide open.
Xiang Yu admired his bravery and gave him wine.
Fan Kuai took the opportunity to blame Xiang Yu.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
有顷，沛公起如厕，招樊哙出，置车官属，独骑，樊哙、靳强、滕公、纪成步，从间道走军，使张良留谢羽。
羽问： 沛公安在？
曰： 闻将军有意督过之，脱身去，间至军，故使臣献璧。
羽受之。
又献玉斗范增。增怒，撞其斗，起曰： 吾属今为沛公虏矣！
沛公归数日，羽引兵西屠咸阳，杀秦降王子婴，烧秦宫室，所过残灭，秦民大失望。
羽使人还报怀王，怀王曰： 如约。
羽怨怀王不肯令与沛公俱西入关而北救赵，后天下约。
乃曰： 怀王者，吾家所立耳，非有功伐，何以得专主约！
本定天下，诸将与籍也。
春正月，阳尊怀王为义帝，实不用其命。
二月，羽自立为西楚霸王，王梁、楚地九郡，都彭城。
背约，更立沛公为汉王，王巴、蜀、汉中四十一县，都南郑。
三分关中，立秦三将，章邯为雍王，都废丘；司马欣为塞王，都栎阳；董翳为翟王，都高奴。
楚将瑕丘申阳为河南王，都洛阳。
赵将司马卬为殷王，都朝歌。
当阳君英布为九江王，都六。
怀王柱国共敖为临江王，都江陵。
番君吴芮为衡山王，都邾。
故齐王建孙田安为济北王。
徙魏王豹为西魏王，都平阳。
徙燕王韩广为辽东王。
燕将臧荼为燕王，都蓟。
徙齐王田市为胶东王。
齐将田都为齐王，都临菑。
徙赵王歇为代王。
赵相张耳为常山王。
汉王怨羽之背约，欲攻之，丞相萧何谏，乃止。
夏四月，诸侯罢戏下，各就国。
translation: 
After a while, Pei Gong left the table to go to the toilet, and took Fan Kuai out with him. He left the carriages and horses of the people who came with him. He straddled the horses and whipped his whip. He and Fan Kuai, Jin Qiang, Teng Gong, Jicheng, etc. who were on foot took a quiet path back to his camp. He asked Zhang Liang to stay and thank Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu asked: Where has Pei Gong gone?
Zhang Liang replied: He heard that the general wanted to find fault with him, so he escaped and left. He may have returned to the camp at this time. He specially asked the ministers to present the jade to the general.
Xiang Yu received the jade.
Zhang Liang also offered Fan Zeng a jade bucket. Fan Zeng was angry and smashed the jade bucket into pieces. He stood up and said: "We will all be prisoners of Pei Gong soon."
After Pei Gong returned to camp for a few days, Xiang Yu led his troops westward and trampled Xianyang. They executed Qin Jiang's prince Ying and burned down Qin's palaces. Xiang Yu's troops everywhere suffered disaster. The people of Qin were greatly disappointed.
Xiang Yu sent someone to report to King Huai of Chu. King Huai of Chu said: According to the previous agreement, I ordered Pei Gong to enter Guanzhong first and become the king of Guanzhong.
Xiang Yu resented King Huai of Chu for not allowing him, Pei Gong, to enter the Pass to the west, but sent him north to rescue Zhao, thus losing the opportunity to enter the Pass first and become the king.
He said: King Huai of Chu was established by my Xiang family, and he has no merits and virtues. How can he be allowed to say the same thing?
In fact, the overthrow of the Qin Dynasty was the work of various generals and Xiang Yu.
In the first month of the second year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu respected King Huai as the Righteous Emperor, but in fact he did not obey King Huai's orders.
In February, Xiang Yu established himself as the overlord of Western Chu and ruled over the nine counties of Liang and Chu, with their capital at Pengcheng.
Overthrowing King Huai of Chu's agreement that the first person to enter Guanzhong would be king, he instead established Peigong as King of Han, with jurisdiction over forty-one counties in Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, with the capital at Nanzheng.
Divide Guanzhong into three parts and send three Qin generals to each of them. Zhang Han was appointed King of Yong, with his capital in Feiqiu; Sima Xin was appointed King of Sai, with his capital in Yueyang; Dong Yi was appointed King of Zhai, with his capital in Gaonu.
He also granted Chu general Xiaqiu Shenyang the title of King of Henan, with his capital in Luoyang.
Zhao general Sima Qiong became the king of Yin, and all were in Chaoge.
Dangyang Junying was declared the king of Jiujiang and his capital was in six counties.
Gong Ao, the Zhuguo of King Huai, was the King of Linjiang, and his capital was in Jiangling.
Fanjun Wu Rui was the king of Hengshan, and his capital was Zhu.
Tian'an, the grandson of the former Qi King Tian Jian, became the King of Jibei.
He moved King Bao of the Wei Dynasty to be the king of the Western Wei Dynasty, with his capital in Pingyang.
Han Guang, the king of Yan Dynasty, became the king of Liaodong.
Yan general Zang Tu became the king of Yan, and his capital was Ji.
He moved to Qi Wangtian City and became the King of Jiaodong.
The generals of Qi, Tiandu, are all kings of Qi, and they are all in Lin?
Moved to Zhao Wang Xie as the acting king.
Zhang Er, Prime Minister of Zhao, was the King of Changshan.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, resented Xiang Yu's violation of his previous agreement to be the king of Dingguanzhong first, and wanted to launch an attack. Xiao He tried to dissuade him, but he stopped.
In the fourth month of summer, all the princes bid farewell to Xiang Yu's command and went to their own feudal states.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
羽使卒三万人从汉王，楚子、诸侯人之慕从者数万人，从杜南入蚀中。
张良辞归韩，汉王送至褒中，因说汉王烧绝栈道，以备诸侯盗兵，亦视项羽无东意。
汉王既至南郑，诸将及士卒皆歌讴思东归，多道亡还者。
韩信为治粟都尉，亦亡去。
萧何追还之，因荐于汉王，曰： 必欲争天下，非信无可与计事者。
于是汉王齐戒设坛场，拜信为大将军，问以计策。
信对曰： 项羽背约而王君王于南郑，是迁也。
吏卒毕山东之人，日夜企而望归，及其锋而用之，可以有大功。
天下已定，民皆自宁，不可复用。
不如决策东向。
因陈羽可图、三秦易并之计。
汉王大说，遂听信策，部署诸将。留萧何收巴、蜀租，给军粮食。
五月，汉王引兵从故道出袭雍。
雍王邯迎击汉陈仓，雍兵败，还走；战好畤，又大败，走废丘。
汉王遂定雍地。
东如咸阳，引兵围雍王废丘，而遣诸将略地。
田荣闻羽徙齐王市于胶东而立田都为齐王，大怒，以齐兵迎击田都。都走降楚。
六月，田荣杀田市，自立为齐王。
时彭越在巨野，众万余人，无所属。
荣与越将军印，因令反梁地。
越击杀济北王安，荣遂并三齐之地。
燕王韩广亦不肯徙辽东。
秋八月，臧荼杀韩广，并其地。
塞王欣、翟王翳皆降汉。
初，项梁立韩后公子成为韩王，张良为韩司徒。
羽以良从汉王，韩王成又无功，故不遣就国，与俱至彭城，杀之。
及闻汉王并关中，而齐、梁畔之，羽大怒，乃以故吴令郑昌为韩王，距汉。
令萧公角击彭越，越败角兵。
时张良徇韩地，遗羽书曰： 汉欲得关中，如约即止，不敢复东。
羽以故无西意，而北击齐。
九月，汉王遣将军薛欧、王吸出武关，因王陵兵，从南阳迎太公、吕后于沛。
羽闻之，发兵距之阳夏，不得前。
二年冬十月，项羽使九江王布杀义帝于郴。
陈馀亦怨羽独不王己，从田荣借助兵，以击常山王张耳。
耳败走降汉，汉王厚遇之。
陈馀迎代王歇还赵，歇立馀为代王。
张良自韩间行归汉，汉王以为成信侯。
汉王如陕，镇抚关外父老。
河南王申阳降，置河南郡。
使韩太尉韩信击韩，韩王郑昌降。
十一月，立韩太尉信为韩王。
汉王还归，都栎阳，使诸将略地，拔陇西。
translation: 
Xiang Yu assigned 30,000 soldiers to the King of Han. Chu and other vassal states had tens of thousands of people who admired the King of Han and were willing to follow him.
Zhang Liang bid farewell to the King of Han and returned to Korea. The King of Han personally sent Zhang Liang to Baozhong. When saying goodbye, Zhang Liang suggested that the King of Han burn down the plank road. Firstly, to prevent other princes from peeking into Hanzhong, and secondly, to express to Xiang Yu that the King of Han had no intention of leaving Hanzhong anymore.
When the King of Han arrived at Nanzheng, all his officers and men sang in unison and wanted to return to the east; many of them fled back.
Han Xin, the captain of Zhisu, also left with the people returning from the east.
Xiao He chased Han Xin and recommended him to the king of Han. Xiao He said: If you really want to conquer the world, there is no one with whom to discuss except Han Xin.
So King Zhaijie of Han went to the platform to worship generals, worshiped Han Xin as a general, and asked for advice on how to conquer the world.
Han Xin replied: Xiang Yu broke the original agreement and changed the title of king to Nanzheng. This is treating the king as a sinner and migrating.
The king's soldiers are all from Shandong, and they hope to fight back to their hometown day and night. If they can use their energy in time, they will definitely win.
If we wait until the world is stable and the people are in their own places, there will be no morale left.
The top priority is to lead troops eastward.
At the same time, it also comprehensively stated Xiang Yu's strategies that could be combined with those of the Three Qin Dynasties.
The King of Han was very satisfied and made arrangements according to Han Xin's plan. He sent Xiao He to stay in Hanzhong to collect money and grain from Ba and Shu to supply military supplies.
In May, the King of Han led troops from Gudao County to attack Yongdi. King Zhanghan of Yong met the Han soldiers in Chencang.
King Yong was defeated and retreated; did the battle end well again? In the county, Zhang Han's troops were defeated again and rushed to Feiqiu.
The king of Han pacified Yongdi in time.
He marched eastward to Xianyang, surrounded the waste hill that Zhang Han refused to defend, and then sent various generals to expand his territory.
Qi general Tian Rong was furious when he heard that Xiang Yu had moved King Tianshi of Qi to Jiaodong and made Tiandu the king of Qi. He led the Qi troops to intercept Tiandu, but Tiandu was defeated and surrendered to Chu.
In June, Tian Rong killed Tian Shi and proclaimed himself king of Qi.
At this time, Peng Yue garrisoned troops in Juye, with more than 10,000 soldiers but no one to belong to.
Tian Rong awarded Peng Yue the seal of general and ordered him to attack from Liang.
Peng Yue killed Tian An, the king of Jibei, and Tian Rong occupied the entire area of ​​Qi, Jibei, and Jiaodong.
Han Guang, King of Yan, also refused to move to Liaodong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Zang Tu, the new king of Yan, killed Han Guang and occupied his territory.
Sima Xin, king of Sai, and Dong Yi, king of Zhai, both surrendered to the Han.
At the beginning, the son after Xiang Liang established Korea became the king of Han, and Zhang Liang became the disciple of the king of Han.
Xiang Yu did not allow Zhang Liang to return to Han because he had followed the King of Han, and King Cheng of Han had not made any military exploits. He took him to Pengcheng and executed him.
At this time, Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han had annexed Guanzhong, and that Qi and Liang had rebelled against him. He was furious, so he sent Zheng Chang, the original Wu commander, as the King of Han to resist the Han soldiers.
He ordered Xiao Gongjiao to attack Peng Yue, but was defeated by Peng Yue.
During this period, Zhang Liang was touring Han and sent a letter to Xiang Yu, saying: The king of Han wants to capture Guanzhong. If he fulfills his promise to enter Guanzhong first, he will stop advancing and will not dare to continue to advance eastward.
Therefore, Xiang Yu had no intention of going west for the time being, and instead attacked Qi Wang Tianrong in the north.
In September, the King of Han sent generals Xue Ou and Wang Sui out of Wuguan to join the troops guarding Wang Ling in Nanyang, and went from Nanyang to Pei to meet the Taigong and Empress Lu.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he sent troops to intercept them in Yangxia. Wang Ling and others were unable to advance.
In the winter of October of the second year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu sent Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill Emperor Yi in Chen County.
Chen Yuhuai resented Xiang Yu for not making him king, so he asked Qi King Tian Rong to borrow troops to attack Changshan King Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was defeated and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The king of Han gave him a grand courtesy.
Chen Yu welcomed Dai Wang Xie and returned Zhao land, and Dai Wang Xie made Chen Yu the acting king.
Zhang Liang secretly came to the King of Han from Han, and the King of Han made him the Marquis of Chengxin.
The King of Han arrived in Shaanxi County to comfort the elders outside the Pass.
King Shenyang of Henan surrendered to the Han, and the Han established Henan County here.
Han Taiwei Han Xin was sent to attack Han, and Han King Zheng Chang surrendered.
In November, Taiwei Han was granted the title of King of Han.
The King of Han returned to Hanzhong, with his capital in Yueyang, and sent generals to seize the enemy's land and conquer Longxi.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
以万人若一郡降者，封万户。
缮治河上塞。
故秦菀囿园池，令民得田之。
春正月，羽击田荣城阳，荣败走平原，平原民杀之。
齐皆降楚，楚焚其城郭，齐人复畔之。
诸将拔北地，虏雍王弟章平。
赦罪人。
二月癸未，令民除秦社稷，立汉社稷。
施恩德，赐民爵。
蜀、汉民给军事劳苦，复勿租税二岁。
关中卒从军者，复家一岁。
举民年五十以上，有修行，能帅众为善，置以为三老，乡一人。
择乡三老一人为县三老，与县令、丞、尉以事相教，复勿徭戍。
以十月赐酒肉。
三月，汉王自临晋渡河。魏王豹降，将兵从。
下河内，虏殷王卬，置河内郡。
至脩武，陈平亡楚来降。
汉王与语，说之，使参乘，监诸将。
南渡平阴津，至洛阳，新城三老董公遮说汉王曰： 臣闻 顺德者昌，逆德者亡 ， 兵出无名，事故不成 。
故曰： 明其为贼，敌乃可服。
项羽为无道，放杀其主，天下之贼也。
夫仁不以勇，义不以力，三军之众为之素服，以告之诸侯，为此东伐，四海之内莫不仰德。
此三王之举也。
汉王曰： 善。
非夫子无所闻。 于是汉王为义帝发丧，袒而大哭，哀临三日。发使告诸侯曰： 天下共立义帝，北面事之。
今项羽放杀义帝江南，大逆无道。
translation: 
Anyone who leads ten thousand people or a county to surrender will be granted the title of Ten Thousand Households.
Repair the river fort.
In the Qin Dynasty, farmers were allowed to cultivate the original royal zoological and botanical gardens and pools.
In the first month of the spring of the third year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu attacked Tian Rong in Chengyang. Tian Rong was defeated and went to Pingyuan. The people of Pingyuan killed Tian Rong.
All the people of Qi surrendered to Chu, and the people of Chu burned Qi's cities and counties, and the people of Qi rebelled against Chu.
The king of Han sent generals to conquer the north and captured Zhang Ping, the younger brother of King Yong.
Forgive sinners.
On February 5, the people were ordered to abolish the Sheji Altar, a symbol of the Qin Dynasty's political power, and to erect the Sheji Altar of the Han Dynasty.
Show kindness and bestow honor and wealth on the people.
The people of Shu Han were exempted from rent and taxes for two years because of the heavy burden of supplying military supplies.
If a soldier from Guanzhong joins the army, his family will be exempted from taxes for one year.
For ordinary people who are over fifty years old, have high moral standing and can lead everyone to do good, they are arranged to be three elders, one for each township.
One of the three elders was selected as the three elders of the county, who discussed political affairs with the county magistrate, county magistrate, and county lieutenant, and exempted them from military service.
October is regarded as the month to comfort the people with wine and meat.
In March, the King of Han crossed the Yellow River from Linjin. King Bao of Wei returned and led his troops to go out with the King of Han.
He conquered Hanoi, captured King Qiong of Yin, and established Hanoi County.
When the soldiers came to Xiuwu, Chen Ping escaped from the Chu army and submitted to the king of Han.
The king of Han talked with him and appreciated him very much. He was appointed as a sergeant to monitor the generals.
Crossing Pingyinjin in the south and arriving at Luoyang, Dong Gong, the third old man in Xincheng, stopped his horse and said to the king of Han: "I heard that those who follow the virtues will prosper, and those who go against the virtues will perish. If the troops are unknown, their actions will not be successful."
So it is said: Only by announcing the enemy's crimes can the enemy be defeated.
Xiang Yu has always been immoral and killed the Righteous Emperor, making him a sinner in the world.
If you are benevolent, you don't need to use bravery and the world will obey you. If you are righteous, you don't need to use force and the world will be convinced. Let the three armies put on the filial piety for the Righteous Emperor, and send a message to the princes, explaining that the troops are used to kill the Righteous Emperor and fight against the rebels in the east. In this way, people all over the world will respect the great virtue.
This is a righteous act that can be followed by the Three Kings.
The King of Han said: It is extremely correct. I would not understand it if it were not for the teachings of the old man.
So the king of Han mourned Emperor Yi, cried loudly according to the funeral ceremony, and mourned publicly for three days. Send envoys to all the princes: The world will establish a righteous emperor and face the north.
Now Xiang Yu killed the Righteous Emperor in the south of the Yangtze River, which was really an act of rebellion.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
寡人亲为发丧，兵皆缟素。悉发关中兵，收三河士，南浮江、汉以下，愿从诸侯王击楚之杀义帝者。
夏四月，田荣弟横收得数万人，立荣子广为齐王。
羽虽闻汉东，既击齐，欲遂破之而后击汉，汉王以故得劫五诸侯兵东伐楚。
到外黄，彭越将三万人归汉。
汉王拜越为魏相国，令定梁也。
汉王遂入彭城，收羽美人货赂，置酒高会。
羽闻之，令其将击齐，而自以精兵三万人从鲁出胡陵，至萧、晨击汉军，大战彭城灵壁东睢水上，大破汉军，多杀士卒，睢水为之不流。
围汉王三匝。
大风从西北起，折木发屋，扬砂石，昼晦，楚军大乱，而汉王得与数十骑遁去。
过沛，使人求室家，室家亦已亡，不相得。
汉王道逢孝惠、鲁元，载行。
楚骑追汉王，汉王急，推堕二子。
滕公下收载，遂得脱。
审食其从太公、吕后间行，反遇楚军，羽常置军中以为质。
诸侯见汉败，皆亡去。
塞王欣、翟王翳降楚，殷王卬死。
吕后兄周吕侯将兵居下邑，汉王从之。
稍收士卒，军砀。
汉王西过梁地，至虞，谓谒者随何曰： 公能说九江王布使举兵畔楚，项王必留击之。
得留数月，吾取天下必矣。
随何往说布，果使畔楚。
五月，汉王屯荥阳，萧何发关中老弱未傅者悉诣军。
韩信亦收兵与汉王会，兵复大振。
与楚战荥阳南京、索间，破之。
筑甬道属河，以取敖仓粟。
魏王豹谒归视亲疾。
至则绝河津，反为楚。
六月，汉王还栎阳。壬午，立太子，赦罪人。
令诸侯子在关中者皆集栎阳为卫。
引水灌废丘，废丘降，章邯自杀。
雍地定，八十余县，置河上、渭南、中地、陇西、上郡。
令祠官祀天地、四方、上帝、山川，以时祠之。
兴关中卒乘边塞。
translation: 
I mourned personally, and the whole army, all dressed in plain clothes, gathered all the soldiers from Guanzhong, gathered the soldiers of Sanhe, and went south along the Han River into the Yangtze River, hoping to follow the princes and kings to arrest the culprits of the regicide.
In the fourth month of summer, Tian Heng, the younger brother of King Tian Rong of Qi, recovered tens of thousands of people who had been defeated by Xiang Yu, and made Tian Guang, the son of Tian Rong, the king of Qi.
Although Xiang Yu had already heard about the Han king's eastward advance, he had already sent all his troops to attack Chu. He wanted to destroy Qi and then attack the Han army. Therefore, the Han king took the opportunity to annex the troops of Wei, Yin and other five princes and attack Chu eastward.
When the troops arrived in Waihuang, Peng Yue led 30,000 people to surrender to the Han.
The King of Han made Peng Yue Prime Minister of Wei. Let him pacify Liang Di.
The king of Han then entered Pengcheng, the capital of Chu Xiang. Collected Xiang Yu's beauties and treasures, and held a cocktail party to celebrate the victory.
After hearing the news, Xiang Yu sent another general to attack, and led 30,000 elite troops from Huling, Lu, to Xiao County. They attacked the Han army in the early morning and fought on the Sui River east of Pengcheng Lingbi.
The soldiers of Chu surrounded the king of Han three times.
A strong wind came from the northwest, breaking trees and breaking houses, flying sand and rocks, making the day look like night, and the Chu army was in chaos. The king of Han took advantage of the chaos and broke through the siege with dozens of cavalry to escape.
Traveling through Peixian County, he sent people to look for his family members, but the whole family had fled and their whereabouts were unknown.
The King of Han met his son Xiaohui and his daughter Lu Yuan on the way, and they boarded a chariot and left in panic.
The Chu cavalry chased the King of Han. Seeing the critical situation, the King of Han pushed his children out of the carriage.
Teng Gong put the two men in the car again and finally escaped from the tiger's mouth.
Shen Shiqi, the father of the Han Dynasty, the Grand Duke, and his wife, Empress Lu, escaped from the trail and met the Chu army. Xiang Yu placed them as hostages in the army.
When the princes saw that the Han army was completely defeated, they all fled.
King Xin of Sai and King Yi of Zhai surrendered to Chu, and King Qiong of Yin died.
Zhou Luhou, the brother-in-law of the King of Han, led troops and horses to station in Xiayi County, and the King of Han went there to settle down.
Gradually the scattered soldiers were gathered and stationed in Dang County.
The king of Han went west through Liang and arrived at Yucheng County. He said to Sui He, who asked to see him, "Master, go and persuade Yingbu, king of Jiujiang, to raise an army to rebel against Chu. Xiang Yu will leave his troops to attack Yingbu."
As long as Xiang Yu can keep his troops for a few months, I will surely conquer the world.
Sui He was ordered to persuade Yingbu, and as expected, Yingbu rebelled against Chu.
In the fifth month, the troops of the King of Han were assembled in Xingyang. Xiao He recruited all the old, weak and underage people in Guanzhong to join his army.
Han Xin also gathered his soldiers to join forces with the King of Han. At this time, the King of Han regained his military power.
He fought with the Chu army between Jing and Suo in the south of Xingyang and defeated the Chu army.
The Han army built walls on both sides of the road leading to the river to transport grain from Aocang, which was near the river and leaning on the mountain.
At this time, Wei Wangbao asked for leave and returned to his hometown in the name of visiting his mother's illness.
After returning home, he blocked the ferry and defended the Chu army against the Han army.
In the sixth month, the king of Han returned to his capital, Yueyang. On the sixth day of the lunar month, he established the crown prince and pardoned the sinners.
He ordered all the sons of the princes in Guanzhong to gather in Yueyang as guards.
They diverted water to attack Feiqiu, but Feiqiu surrendered and King Yong Zhanghan committed suicide.
Yongzhou was pacified, and there were more than eighty counties, located on the river, Weinan, Zhongdi, Longxi, and Shangjun.
The ancestral officials were ordered to worship the mountains and rivers of gods in the four directions of heaven and earth, and to perform ancestral sacrifices on time.
Send sergeants from Guan to guard the border fortress.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
关中大饥，米斛万钱，人相食。
令民就食蜀、汉。
秋八月，汉王如荥阳，谓郦食其曰： 缓颊往说魏王豹，能下之，以魏地万户封生。
食其往，豹不听。
汉王以韩信为左丞相，与曹参、灌婴俱击魏。
食其还，汉王问： 魏大将谁也？
对曰： 柏直。
王曰： 是口尚乳臭，不能当韩信。骑将谁也？ 曰： 冯敬。
曰： 是秦将冯无择子也。虽贤，不能当灌婴。
步卒将谁也？ 曰： 项它。
曰： 不能当曹参。
吾无患矣。
九月，信等虏豹，传诣荥阳。
定魏地，置河东、太原、上党郡。
信使人请兵三万人，愿以北举燕、赵，东击齐，南绝楚粮道。
汉王与之。
三年冬十月，韩信、张耳东下井陉击赵，斩陈馀，获赵王歇。置常山、代郡。
甲戌晦，日有食之。
十一月癸卯晦，日有食之。
随何既说黥布，布起兵攻楚。楚使项声、龙且攻布，布战不胜。
十二月，布与随何间行归汉。汉王分之兵，与俱收兵至成皋。
项羽数侵夺汉甬道，汉军乏食，与郦食其谋桡楚权。
食其欲立六国后以树党，汉王刻印，将遣食其立之。
以问张良，良发八难。
汉王辍饭吐哺，曰： 竖儒几败乃公事！
令趋销印。
又问陈平，乃从其计，与平黄金四万斤，以间疏楚君臣。
夏四月，项羽围汉荥阳，汉王请和，割荥阳以西者为汉。
亚父劝项羽急攻荥阳，汉王患之。
陈平反间既行，羽果疑亚父。
亚父大怒而去，发病死。
translation: 
At this time, there was a great famine in Guanzhong. Dendrobium rice was worth tens of thousands of dollars, and people were eating people.
Arrangements were made for hungry people to gather in Shu and Han areas to survive the famine.
In the eighth month of autumn, the King of Han arrived in Xingyang and said to Li Shiqi: Please use your kind words to persuade King Bao of Wei. If the persuasion is successful, I will make you the Marquis of Ten Thousand Households in Wei.
When he was ordered to go there, King Bao of Wei refused to obey.
The king of Han sent Han Xin as prime minister of the left, and together with Cao Shen and Guan Ying, he attacked the king of Wei.
After eating his reward, the king of Han asked: "Who is the general of Wei?"
Eat it and answer: Bai Zhi.
The King of Han said: This is a young boy who lacks combat experience and is no match for Han Xin. Who is the knight? Shi Qi answered: Feng Jing.
The King of Han said: He is the son of Qin general Feng Wuze. Although he is talented, he is no match for Guan Ying.
Who is the step general? Eat it and say: Xiang it.
The king of Han said: He is no match for Cao Shen.
I don't have to worry anymore.
In September, Han Xin and others captured Wei Wangbao and escorted him to Xingyang.
The Wei region was pacified and Hedong, Taiyuan and Shangdang counties were established.
Han Xin sent an envoy to ask the King of Han for 30,000 troops, willing to destroy Yan and Zhao in the north, attack Qi in the east, and cut off Chu's grain road in the south.
The King of Han assigned Han Xin soldiers according to their numbers.
In the winter of the third year in October, Han Xin and Zhang Erdong went to Jingxing to attack Zhao, killed Chen Yu, captured Zhao Wangxie, and established Changshan and Daijun.
October 30th, solar eclipse.
On November 30th, there was another solar eclipse.
Sui He had persuaded Yingbu to join the Han, so Yingbu raised his troops to attack Chu. Chu sent Xiang Sheng and Long Qie to attack Yingbu, but Yingbu failed in the battle.
In December, Yingbu and Suihe took a small road to ask for help from the King of Han. The King of Han divided his troops to help, and together they withdrew their troops to Chenggao.
Xiang Yu repeatedly seized the passage for Han soldiers to obtain food, and the Han army was short of food. The king of Han discussed with Li Shiqi how to weaken Chu Xiang's power.
After Shi Qi wanted to establish the Six Kingdoms, he would be the wing of the Han Dynasty. The King of Han would engrave the seals of the Six Kingdoms and send Shi Qi to enfeoff.
Asked Zhang Liang's opinion, Zhang Liang believed that there were eight major problems in enfeoffing the six countries.
The King of Han immediately put down the bowls and chopsticks he was eating and said: "You have almost ruined my big event by eating this ignorant boy!"
An order was sent to quickly destroy the engraved seal of the Six Kingdoms.
He also asked Chen Ping for advice and followed Chen Ping's strategy. He gave Chen Ping 40,000 catties of gold to sow discord between Chu Xiang and his ministers.
In April of summer, Xiang Yu besieged Xingyang, the military center of the Han Dynasty. The king of Han requested peace, with Xingyang as the boundary and the west as the Han Dynasty.
Fan Zeng, his father-in-law, advised Xiang Yu to attack Xingyang, which made the king of Han deeply uneasy.
At this time, Chen Ping had bribed some generals of the Chu army to slander Fan Zeng. As expected, Xiang Yu became suspicious of Fan Zeng.
Fan Zeng left the Chu camp in anger, and died of gangrene in anger.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
五月，将军纪信曰： 事急矣！
臣请诳楚，可以间出。
于是陈平夜出女子东门二千余人，楚因四面击之。
纪信乃乘王车，黄屋左纛，曰： 食尽，汉王降楚。
楚皆呼万岁，之城东观，以故汉王得与数十骑出西门遁。
令御史大夫周苛、魏豹、枞公守荥阳。
羽见纪信，问： 汉王安在？
曰： 已出去矣。
羽烧杀信。
而周苛、枞公相谓曰： 反国之王，难与守城。
因杀魏豹。
汉王出荥阳，至成皋。自成皋入关，收兵欲复东。
辕生说汉王曰： 汉与楚相距荥阳数岁，汉常困。
愿君王出武关，项王必引兵南走，王深壁，令荥阳、成皋间且得休息。
使韩信等得辑河北赵地，连燕、齐，君王乃复走荥阳。
如此，则楚所备者多，力分。
汉得休息，复与之战，破之必矣。
汉王从其计，出军宛、叶间，与黥布行收兵。
羽闻汉王在宛，果引兵南，汉王坚壁不与战。
是月，彭越渡睢，与项声、薛公战下邳，破杀薛公。羽使终公守成皋，而自东击彭越。
汉王引兵北，击破终公，复军成皋。
六月，羽已破走彭越，闻汉复军成皋，乃引兵西拔荥阳城，生得周苛。羽谓苛： 为我将，以公为上将军，封三万户。
周苛骂曰： 若不趋降汉，今为虏矣！
若非汉王敌也。
羽亨周苛，并杀枞公，而虏韩王信，遂围成皋。
汉王跳，独与滕公共车出成皋玉门，北渡河，宿小修武。
自称使者，晨驰入张耳、韩信壁而夺之军。
乃使张耳北收兵赵地。
秋七月，有星孛于大角。
汉王得韩信军，复大振。
translation: 
In May, General Ji Xin said to the King of Han: The situation is extremely serious!
The minister pretended to be the king to deceive the Chu army, so that the king could take advantage of the opportunity and escape from the siege.
So Chen Ping released more than 2,000 women at the east gate of Xingyang at night, causing Chu soldiers to chase them in all directions.
Ji Xin pretended to be the King of Han and rode in the chariot. King Huang Gai's banner came out of the east gate and he said: "The food supply has been exhausted. The King of Han surrendered to Chu."
The Chu army shouted "Long live victory" and went to the east of the city to watch the King of Han surrender, so the King of Han was able to lead dozens of cavalry out of the west gate and escape.
The imperial censors Zhou Ke, Wei Bao and Cong Gong were sent to guard Xingyang.
When Xiang Yu saw it was Ji Xin, he shouted loudly: "Where is the King of Han?"
Ji Xin replied calmly: He has already left far away.
Xiang Yu burned Ji Xin to death.
Zhou Ke and Cong Gong in the city discussed with each other and said: Wei Bao is a rebel king and it is difficult to defend the city.
Then he killed Wei Bao.
The King of Han walked out of the siege of Xingyang and marched to Chenggao. From Chenggao he entered the Pass and gathered troops and horses to prepare for another eastern expedition.
Yuan Sheng suggested to the King of Han: Han and Chu have been at a stalemate in Xingyang for two years, and Han has always been passive.
I hope that when the king's troops leave Wuguan, King Xiang will definitely lead his troops south, and the king will maintain a stalemate with them in deep ditches and high forts, so that the Han army in Xingyang Chenggao will have a chance to rest and reorganize.
He also sent Han Xin and others to stabilize Zhao in Hebei and unite Yan and Qi, and then the king sent troops to Xingyang again.
In this case, Chu will lengthen its defense line and disperse its forces.
After the Han soldiers have rested and recuperated, they will definitely defeat the Chu army if they fight again.
The King of Han accepted this clever plan and sent troops between Wan County and Ye County to conduct guerrilla warfare with Yingbu here.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han had garrisoned troops in Wan, and he indeed led his troops to attack south, but the King of Han stood firm and refused to fight with him.
In this month, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River and fought with Chu generals Xiang Sheng and Xue Gong in Xia Qiong. They defeated the Chu soldiers and killed Xue Gong. Xiang Yu sent Zhong Gong to guard Chenggao and personally led his troops eastward to retaliate against Peng Yue.
The king of Han took advantage of the opportunity and led his troops northward, defeated the Chu general Zhong Gong who was stationed in Chenggao, and regained Chenggao.
In June, Xiang Yu had defeated and expelled Peng Yue. When he heard that the Han soldiers had captured Chenggao, he led his troops to attack Xingyang City to the west and captured the general Zhou Ke alive.
Zhou Ke angrily scolded: "If you don't surrender to the Han Dynasty quickly, you will become a prisoner soon!"
You are no match for the King of Han.
Xiang Yu killed Zhou Ke, executed Duke Cong, captured Han Wangxin, and then besieged Chenggao.
The king of Han fled in a hurry. He and Duke Teng drove out of the north gate of Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River north, and stayed in Xiaoxiuwu for the night.
In the early morning, claiming to be the envoy of the King of Han, he rushed into Zhang Er and Han Xin's positions and personally took control of the troops.
He sent Zhang Er to Zhao in the north to mobilize Han troops.
In autumn and July, a comet appears over Big Horn.
The King of Han regained his strength after capturing Han Xin's army.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
八月，临河南乡，军小修武，欲复战。
郎中郑忠说止汉王，高垒深堑勿战。
汉王听其计，使卢绾、刘贾将卒二万人，骑数百，渡白马津入楚地，佐彭越烧楚积聚，复击破楚军燕郭西，攻下睢阳、外黄十七城。
九月，羽谓海春侯大司马曹咎曰： 谨守成皋。
即汉王欲挑战，慎勿与战，勿令得东而已。
我十五日必定梁地，复从将军。
羽引兵东击彭越。
汉王使郦食其说齐王田广，罢守兵与汉和。
四年冬十月，韩信用蒯通计，袭破齐。
齐王亨郦生，东走高密。
项羽闻韩信破齐，且欲击楚，使龙且救齐。
汉果数挑成皋战，楚军不出。使人辱之数日，大司马咎怒，渡兵汜水。士卒半渡，汉击之，大破楚军，尽得楚国金玉货赂。
大司马咎、长史欣皆自刭汜水上。
汉王引兵渡河，复取成皋，军广武，就敖仓食。
羽下梁地十余城，闻海春侯破，乃引兵还。
汉军方围钟离末于荥阳东，闻羽至，尽走险阻。
羽亦军广武，与汉相守。
丁壮苦军旅，老弱罢转饷。
汉王、羽相与临广武之间而语。
羽欲与汉王独身挑战，汉王数羽曰： 吾始与羽俱受命怀王，曰先定关中者王之。
羽负约，王我于蜀、汉，罪一也。
羽矫杀卿子冠军，自尊，罪二也。
羽当以救赵还报，而擅劫诸侯兵入关，罪三也。
怀王约，入秦无暴掠，羽烧秦宫室，掘始皇帝冢，收私其财，罪四也。
又强杀秦降王子婴，罪五也。
诈坑秦子弟新安二十万，王其将，罪六也。
皆王诸将善地，而徙逐故主，令臣下争畔逆。罪七也。
出逐义帝彭城，自都之，夺韩王地，并王梁、楚，多自与，罪八也。
使人阴杀义帝江南，罪九也。
夫为人臣而杀其主，杀其已降，为政不平，主约不信，天下所不容，大逆无道，罪十也。
吾以义兵从诸侯诛残贼，使刑余罪人击公，何苦乃与公挑战！
羽大怒，伏弩射中汉王。汉王伤胸，乃扪足曰： 虏中吾指！
translation: 
In August, he led his troops to the south near the Yellow River and garrisoned in Xiaoxiuwu, hoping to fight the Chu army again.
Zheng Zhong, the doctor, dissuaded the King of Han and suggested that he should dig deep ditches and high forts and not fight the Chu army.
The King of Han followed his plan and sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia with 20,000 infantry and several hundred cavalry to cross the river from Baimajin into the Chu land. They assisted Peng Yue in burning the Chu army's grain and grass reserves. He also defeated the Chu army in the west of Yan County and captured seventeen cities in Suiyang and Waihuang.
In September, Xiang Yu said to Cao Jiu, the commander-in-chief of Haichunhou: Be careful to guard Chenggao.
Even if the King of Han wants to challenge him, you must not fight him. Just don't let the Han army advance eastward.
I will definitely be able to pacify Liang within fifteen days and then meet up with the general.
So Xiang Yu led his troops eastward to attack Peng Yue.
The king of Han sent Li Shiqi to persuade Qi Wang Tian Guang to stop the army's garrison and unite with the Han army.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Han Xin used Kuai Tong's strategy to attack the Qi army by surprise.
The King of Qi killed Li Shengpan and fled eastward to Gaomi.
Xiang Yu heard that Han Xin had defeated the Qi army and wanted to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie to lead his army to rescue the Qi army.
Sure enough, the Han army challenged the Chu army in Chenggao many times. The Chu army could not hold out and sent people to insult the Chu army for many days. The great commander Cao Jiu was furious and led his troops across the Si River. The Chu army had just crossed the halfway point when the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army and captured all the gold and jade belongings of the Chu state.
The great Sima Cao Jiu and the Chang Shi Xin both committed suicide on the banks of Si River.
The King of Han led his troops across the Yellow River and reoccupied Chenggao. He garrisoned troops in Guangwu and transported grain from Aocang.
Xiang Yu captured more than ten cities in Liang. When he heard that Haichunhou was defeated by the Han army, he led his troops back.
The Han army was besieging Zhong Limei in the east of Xingyang. When they heard that Xiang Yu's troops had arrived, they all fled to a dangerous place.
Xiang Yu also garrisoned troops in Guangwu and confronted the Han army.
The young are tired of marching and fighting, and the old and weak are exhausted from transporting food and wages.
The King of Han and Xiang Yu went to Guangwu Stream to have a conversation.
Xiang Yu was about to challenge the King of Han to a decisive battle. The King of Han listed Xiang Yu's crimes and said: At the beginning, Xiang Yu and I both accepted the order of King Huai of Chu and agreed to conquer Guanzhong first and become the King of Guanzhong.
You Xiang Yu broke the agreement and made me the king of Shu Han. This is the first crime.
You, Xiang Yu, falsely conveyed the king's will and killed the champion of Qingzi, claiming to be a general. This is the second crime.
You, Xiang Yu, have rescued Zhao and should repay King Huai, but instead you coerce the troops of the princes to enter the pass with you without permission. This is the third crime.
King Huai agreed not to burn, kill or loot when entering Qin. Xiang Yu burned down the palaces of the Qin Dynasty, dug up the emperor's tomb, and took the finances of Qin for private use. This is the fourth crime.
He also killed Prince Qin Ying who had surrendered. This was the fifth crime.
Cruelly and deceptively, he buried 200,000 Qin soldiers alive in Xin'an, but then made their general king. This is the sixth crime.
The generals were sealed in good places, but they moved to drive away the original princes and kings, and allowed the subordinates to rebel in order to fight for the throne. This is the seventh crime.
After driving Emperor Yi out of Pengcheng, he established his capital there, seized the land of the King of Han, and annexed the Chu lands of Liang Dynasty, all of which were assigned to himself. This is the eighth crime.
He sent people to secretly kill Emperor Yi in Jiangnan. This was the ninth crime.
You are a minister but you murder the monarch and kill those who have surrendered. You govern unfairly. You uphold the covenant but do not keep your word. You are not tolerated by the world and are treasonous. This is the 10th offense.
I lead the rebels to fight against the princes, and I send a convicted criminal to beat you, so why bother me to challenge you in a one-on-one fight?
Xiang Yu was furious and shot the King of Han with a crossbow from an ambush. The King of Han was injured in the chest, but he touched his feet and said: "This thief shot my toes."


Chunk 16: 
original: 
汉王病创卧，张良强请汉王起行劳军，以安士卒，毋令楚乘胜。
汉王出行军，疾甚，因驰入成皋。
十一月，韩信与灌婴击破楚军，杀楚将龙且，追至城阳，虏齐王广。
齐相田横自立为齐王，奔彭越。
汉立张耳为赵王。
汉王疾愈，西入关，至栎阳，存问父老，置酒。
枭故塞王欣头栎阳市。
留四日，复如军，军广武。
关中兵益出，而彭越、田横居梁地，往来苦楚兵，绝其粮食。
韩信已破齐，使人言曰： 齐边楚，权轻，不为假王，恐不能安齐。
汉王怒，欲攻之。
张良曰： 不如因而立之，使自为守。
春二月，遣张良操印，立韩信为齐王。
秋七月，立黥布为淮南王。
八月，初为算赋。
北貉、燕人来致枭骑助汉。
汉王下令：军士不幸死者，吏为衣衾棺敛，转送其家。
四方归心焉。
项羽自知少助食尽，韩信又进兵击楚，羽患之。
汉遣陆贾说羽，请太公，羽弗听。
汉复使侯公说羽，羽乃与汉约，中分天下，割鸿沟以西为汉，以东为楚。
九月，归太公、吕后，军皆称万岁。
乃封侯公为平国君。羽解而东归。汉王欲西归，张良、陈平谏曰： 今汉有天下太半，而诸侯皆附，楚兵罢食尽，此天亡之时，不因其几而遂取之，此养虎自遗患也。
汉王从之。
translation: 
The King of Han fell down due to an arrow injury. Zhang Liang asked the King of Han to get up and go to condolences the soldiers, so as to stabilize the soldiers and prevent the Chu army from attacking after the victory.
When the King of Han went to inspect the military camp, his condition worsened and he immediately rushed back to Chenggao.
In November, Han Xin and Guan Ying defeated the Chu army, killed the Chu army general Long Qie, chased them to Chengyang, and captured Qi Wang Tian Guang.
Tian Heng, Prime Minister of Qi, proclaimed himself King of Qi and defected to Peng Yue.
The king of Han made Zhang Er the king of Zhao.
After the King of Han recovered from his illness, he traveled westward to the Pass and came to Yueyang, where he visited the local elders and held a banquet.
The head of Sima Xin, the former king of Si, was cut off and hung in Yueyang Market for public display.
After staying for four days, he returned to the army and garrisoned in Guangwu.
Guanzhong soldiers rushed to the Chu-Han battlefield in large numbers, while Peng Yue and Tian Heng occupied the Liang area, attacking and harassing the Chu army and cutting off their food channels.
After Han Xin captured Qi, he sent someone to tell the king of Han: Qi is close to Chu and its power is too small. If I don't become an acting king, I'm afraid I won't be able to stabilize Qi.
The king of Han was furious and wanted to attack him.
Zhang Liang said: It is better to take the opportunity to make him the king of Qi and let him guard the land of Qi.
In the second month of spring, Zhang Liang was sent with the royal seal to make Han Xin the king of Qi.
In the seventh month of autumn, Yingbu was made King of Huainan.
In August, the calculation method began to be implemented.
The Beibei and Yan people sent a group of brave cavalry to assist the Han army.
The King of Han ordered: If a sergeant unfortunately dies in battle, a special person will be sent to dress him, put him in a coffin, and send him back to his hometown.
All the people in the world have sincerely surrendered.
Xiang Yu knew that he lacked helpers and was about to run out of food and grass. Han Xin led troops to attack the Chu army many times, and he was very worried.
The King of Han sent Duke Hou to Chu to persuade Xiang Yu to release the Grand Duke and Empress Lu.
So Xiang Yu and the King of Han agreed to divide the world equally, using the chasm as the dividing line, with the west returning to Han and the east returning to Chu.
In September, Xiang Yu released the Grand Duke and Empress Lu, led his soldiers to relieve the difficulties in Xingyang, and then returned eastward.
The King of Han also had plans to return west to Guanzhong, but Zhang Liang and Chen Ping dissuaded him, saying: The King of Han now owns most of the world, and princes from all over the country have come to join him. But now the Chu army is exhausted and has run out of ammunition and food. This is really the best opportunity given by God to destroy Chu. If we let go of Chu people at this time, we will be raising tigers and causing trouble.
The king of Han listened to their opinions.


