Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘昆洼丹任安杨政张兴戴憑孙期欧阳歙牟长宋登张驯尹敏周防孔僖杨伦昔王葬、更始之际，天下散乱，礼乐分崩，典文残落。及光武中兴，爱好经术，未及下车，而先访儒雅，采求阙文，补缀漏逸。先是，四方学士多怀协图书，遁逃林薮。
自是莫不抱负坟策，云会京师，范升、陈元、郑兴、杜林、卫宏、刘昆、桓荣之徒，继踵而集。
于是立《五经》博士，各以家法教授，《易》有施、孟、梁丘、京氏，《尚书》欧阳、大小夏侯，《诗》齐、鲁、韩，《礼》大小戴，《春秋》严、颜、凡十四博士，太常差次总领焉。
建武五年，乃修起太学，稽式古典，笾豆干戚之容，备之于列，服方领习矩步者，委它乎其中。
中元元年，初建三雍。
明帝即位，亲行其礼。
天子始冠通天，衣日月，备法物之驾，盛清道之仪，坐明堂而朝群后，登灵台以望云物，袒割辟雍之上，尊养三老五更。
translation: 
◆Preface to the Biographies of Scholars: Once upon a time, during the reigns of Wang Mang and Gengshi, the world was in turmoil, rituals and music collapsed, and domestic documents were incomplete. Guangwu Zhongxing was fond of classics. Before he ascended the throne, he visited refined scholars, collected incomplete classics, repaired omissions, and collected prose. In the past, scholars from all over the world mostly fled into the mountains and forests with their books in their arms.
From then on, they all gathered in the capital carrying books. Fan Sheng, Chen Yuan, Zheng Xing, Du Lin, Wei Hong, Liu Kun, Huan Rong and others also came one after another.
Therefore, the country established doctors of the Five Classics, and each taught students according to his own family method. There were Shi, Meng, Liangqiu, and Jing in the Yi, Ouyang, and Xiaoxiahou in the Shangshu, Qi, Lu, and Han in the Shi, Dai and Dai in the Rites, and Yan and Yan in the Spring and Autumn. There were fourteen doctors in total, and Taichang took the lead in turn.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Taixue was built, and ancient models were studied. Bamboo bamboo rafts, wooden beans, and shields and axes used for dancing were all listed in Taixue. Students wearing straight collars and learning square steps walked slowly in it.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Piyong, Mingtang and Lingtai were built.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and saluted in person.
The emperor began to wear a crown that reached the sky, and wore the clothes of the sun, moon and stars. He was a chariot with dharma objects.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
飨射礼毕，帝正坐自讲，诸儒执经问难于前，冠带缙绅之人，圜桥门而观听者盖亿万计。
其后复为功臣子孙、四姓末属别立校舍，搜选高能以受其业，自期门羽林之士，悉令通《孝经》章句，匈奴亦遣子入学。
济济乎，洋洋乎，盛于永平矣！建初中，大会诸儒于白虎观，考详同异，连月乃罢。
肃宗亲临称制，如石渠故事，顾命史臣，著为通义。
又诏高才生受《古文尚书》、《毛诗》、《穀梁》、《左氏春秋》，虽不立学官，然皆擢高第为讲郎，给事近署，所以网罗遗逸，博存众家。
孝和亦数幸东观，览阅书林。
及邓后称制，学者颇懈。
时，樊准、徐防并陈敦学之宜，又言儒职多非其人，于是制诏公卿妙简其选，三署郎能通经术者，皆得察举。
自安帝览政，薄于艺文，博士倚席不讲，朋徒相视怠散，学舍穨敝，鞠为园蔬，牧兒荛竖，至于薪刈其下。
顺帝感翟酺之言，乃更修黉宇，凡所结构二百四十房，千八百五十室。
试明经下第补弟子，增甲乙之科员各十人，除郡国耆儒皆补郎、舍人。
本初元年，梁太后诏曰： 大将军下至六百石，悉遣子就学，每岁辄于乡射月一飨会之，以此为常。
自是游学增盛，至三万余生。
然章句渐疏，而多以浮华相尚，儒者之风盖衰矣。
党人既诛，其高名善士多坐流废，后遂至忿争，更相信告，亦有私行金货，定兰台漆书经字，以合其私文。
熹平四年，灵帝乃诏诸儒正定《五经》，刊于石碑，为古文、篆、隶三体书法以相参检，树之学门，使天下咸取则焉。
translation: 
After the guests were dined and the rituals with the princes were completed, the emperor was sitting down to give a lecture. Confucian scholars were holding scriptures and asking questions. There were countless ministers and scholar-bureaucrats who walked around the bridge gate to watch and listen to the lecture.
After that, for the descendants of the meritorious officials and the last members of the four surnames, separate schools were established, and talented people were selected to teach. All the people from Yulin in Qimen were taught the chapters and verses of the "Book of Filial Piety", and the Xiongnu also sent their children to school.
Beautiful! So grand! It flourishes in Yongping! When the junior high school was built, the Confucians gathered at Baihu Temple to assess similarities and differences for several months.
Suzong personally came to give instructions. For example, in the third year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu, he discussed the story in Shiqu Pavilion with Confucian scholars Wei Xuancheng, Liang Qiuhe and others. He ordered Shi Chen to write "White Tiger Tongyi".
He also ordered the talented students to receive "Guwen Shangshu", "Mao Shi", "Gu Liang" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu". Although they did not establish academic officials, they all promoted Gao Di to be a lecturer and give them a close handle. This was to catch the omissions and recluse, and to attract many families.
Xiaohe also visited Dongguan many times and read many books.
When Empress Deng exercised the power of the emperor, many scholars were slack.
At this time, both Fan Zhun and Xu Fang wrote letters stating the importance of teaching, and saying that there were too many Confucian positions for which they were not qualified, so they ordered the ministers to carefully select, and all the doctors in the three departments who were proficient in Confucian classics were elected.
After Emperor An took over the government, he did not pay attention to art and literature. Doctors reclined on seats without giving lectures. Friends looked at me and I looked at you. They were lazy and undisciplined. The school building was also ruined and became a vegetable garden. Here, shepherds and woodcutter gathered firewood and cut grass.
Emperor Shun was inspired by Zhai Youfu's words, so he rebuilt the school and built a total of 240 rooms and 1,850 rooms.
After taking the Ming Jing examination, the first disciples were recruited, and ten members of the first and second departments were added. Except for the senior scholars in the county and country, all the disciples were recruited.
In the first year of Benchu, the Empress Dowager Liang issued an edict: All the generals, down to six hundred stones, would send their children to school. Every year, they would dine with guests and gather with the princes in this month. This was a common practice.
Since then, the number of people studying abroad has increased, reaching more than 30,000 students.
However, the chapters and sentences gradually became sparse and more pompous, and the Confucian spirit declined.
The party members were executed, and most of the famous and philanthropic people were exiled and abandoned. Later, they accused each other out of anger, some secretly traded gold goods, and changed the characters of the Lantai lacquer script to match his private documents.
In the fourth year of Xiping's reign, Emperor Ling ordered all the Confucian scholars to rectify the Five Classics and engrave them on stone tablets, using ancient Chinese, seal script, and official calligraphy to verify each other.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
初，光武迁还洛阳，其经牒秘书载之二千余两，自此以后，参倍于前。
及董卓移都之际，吏民扰乱，自辟雍、东观、兰台、石室、宣明、鸿都诸藏典策文章，竞共剖散，其缣帛图书，大则连为帷盖，小乃制为縢囊。
及王允所收而西者。裁七十余乘，道路艰远，复弃其半矣。
后长安之乱，一时焚荡，莫不泯尽焉。
东京学者猥众，难以详载，今但录其能通经名家者，以为《儒林篇》。其自有列传者，则不兼书。
若师资所承，宜标名为证者，乃著之云。
《前书》云：田何传《易》授丁宽，丁宽授田王孙，王孙授沛人施雠、东海孟喜、琅邪梁丘贺，由是《易》有施、孟、梁丘之学。
又东郡京房受《易》于梁国焦延寿，别为京氏学。
又有东莱费直，传《易》，授琅邪王横，为费氏学。
本以古字，号《古文易》。
又沛人高相传《易》，授子康及兰陵毋将永，为高氏学。
施、孟、梁丘、京氏四家皆立博士，费、高二家未得立。
刘昆字桓公，陈留东昏人，梁孝王之胤也。
少习容礼。
平帝时，受《施氏易》于沛人戴宾。能弹雅琴，知清角之操。
translation: 
At first, Guangwu moved the capital back to Luoyang, and those documents and secretaries were carried in 2,000 vehicles. From then on, the number was three times as many as before.
When Dong Zhuo moved the capital, the officials and the people were disruptive, and the classics and articles collected in Piyong, Dongguan, Lantai, Shishi, Xuanming, and Hongdu were lost one after another. The large ones were connected into curtains, and the small ones were made into bags.
When Wang Yun packed up and transported to Chang'an, there were only more than seventy cars. The road was difficult and half of them were lost!
Later, there was great chaos in Chang'an, and they were all burned down and wiped out!
There are many scholars in Tokyo, so it is difficult to record them in detail. Now we only record those famous scholars who can understand the classics. As "The Scholars", if there are biographies, we will not re-record them.
If it is due to the succession of teachers, it should be marked as a certificate, and it should also be written here.
"The First Book" says: Tian He passed the Book of Changes to Ding Kuan, Ding Kuan taught Tian Wangsun, and Wangsun taught Peiren Shi Yan, Donghai Mengshan, and Langji Liangqiu He. Therefore, "Yi" has Shi, Meng and Liangqiu's studies.
In addition, Jingfang of Dongjun County received the Book of Changes from Jiao Yanshou of the Liang Kingdom, and became known as the Jingshi School.
There was also a direct biography of "Yi" by Fei from Donglai, who taught it to Wang Heng of Langfu and became a scholar of Fei's family.
This book is written in ancient Chinese characters and is titled "Gu Wen Yi".
It is also said that Pei Ren Gao passed down the Book of Changes and taught his sons Gao Kang and Lanling Wu Jiangyong, who studied under the Gao family.
The four families of Shi, Meng, Liangqiu, and Jing all had Ph.D.s, but the Fei and Gao families did not.
◆In the biography of Liu Kun, Liu Kun was named Huan Gong, a descendant of Chen Liudong, a descendant of King Xiao of Liang.
Learn etiquette when you are young.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, he learned "Shi Yi" from Dai Bin, a native of Pei, and was able to play the elegant Qin and know how to clear the horn.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
王莽世，教授弟子恒五百余人。
每春秋飨射，常备列典仪，以素木瓠叶为俎豆，桑弧蒿矢，以射 菟首 。
每有行礼，县宰辄率吏属而观之。
王莽以昆多聚徒众，私行大礼，有僭上心，乃系昆及家属于外黄狱。
寻莽败得免。
既而天下大乱，昆避难河南负犊山中。
建武五年，举孝廉，不行，遂逃，教授于江陵。
光武闻之，即除为江陵令。
时，县连年火灾，昆辄向火叩头，多能降雨止风。
征拜议郎，稍迁侍中、弘农太守。
先是，崤、黾驿道多虎灾，行旅不通。
昆为政三年，仁化大行，虎皆负子度河。
帝闻而异之。
二十二年，征代杜林为光禄勋。
诏问昆曰： 前在江陵，反风灭火，后守弘农，虎北度河，行何德政而致是事？
昆对曰： 偶然耳。
左右皆笑其质讷。
帝叹曰： 此乃长者之言也。
顾命书诸策。
translation: 
During Wang Mang's time, his disciples often numbered more than 500.
In the Spring and Autumn, when dining with guests, and shooting with the princes, they often prepare rituals, using plain wood gourd leaves as beans, mulberry and mugwort arrows, fearing that the ceremony will be neglected, they will sing "dodder" and poems as a festival.
Every time the ceremony is performed, the county magistrate Liu Kun often leads his officials to watch.
Wang Mang believed that Liu Kun had offended the imperial court by gathering disciples and performing lavish ceremonies privately, so he arrested Liu Kun and his family members and sent them to Waihuang Prison.
Soon, Wang Mang failed, and Liu Kun and his family were spared from punishment.
After the chaos in the world, Liu Kun took refuge in Fudu Mountain in Henan.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was promoted to Xiaolian, but he refused to go and ran away to teach students in Jiangling.
Guangwu heard about it and appointed him as the Jiangling Order.
At that time, there were continuous fires in Jiangling County. Liu Kun often kowtowed to the fire, which could bring rain and stop the wind.
He was granted the title of Yilang and promoted to Shizhong and Hongnong Grand Administrator.
Previously, tigers were causing trouble on the Xiao and Heyi roads, making travel impossible.
Liu Kun was in power for three years and implemented benevolent government. Even the tiger carried its cubs across the Yellow River.
Guangwu heard about it and thought it was strange.
In the 22nd year of Jianwu's reign, he was recruited to replace Du Lin as Guang Luxun.
The imperial edict asked Liu Kun: You used to go against the wind and put out fires in Jiangling, and later you became the prefect of Hongnong and crossed the Yellow River north. What kind of policies did you implement that led to this kind of thing?
Liu Kun replied: This is just a coincidence.
People around him laughed at his simplicity.
The emperor smiled and said: This is what the elder said.
Let the people on the left and right write it down in the book.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
乃令入授皇太子及诸王小侯五十余人。
二十七年，拜骑都尉。
三十年，以老乞骸骨，诏赐洛阳第舍，以千石禄终其身。
中元二年卒。
子轶，字君文，传昆业，门徒亦盛。
永平中，为太子中庶子。
建初中，稍迁宗正，卒官，遂世掌宗正焉。
洼丹字子玉，南阳育阳人也。
世传《孟氏易》。
作《易通论》七篇，世号《洼君通》。丹学义研深，《易》家宗之，称为大儒。
十七年，卒于官，年七十。
时，中山觟阳鸿，字孟孙，亦以《孟氏易》教授，有名称，永平中为少府。
任安字定祖，广汉绵竹人也。
少游太学，受《孟氏易》，兼通数经。
又从同郡杨厚学图谶，究极其术。
时人称曰： 欲知仲桓问任安。
又曰： 居今行古任定祖。
学终，还家教授，诸生自远而至。
初仕州郡。
translation: 
He was ordered to teach the crown prince and more than 50 princes and princes.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of Captain of Cavalry.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he requested to return home because of his old age, and was granted a residence in Luoyang, with a salary of a thousand stones for life.
He died in the second year of Zhongyuan.
His son Liu Yi, also named Junwen, inherited the career of Professor Liu Kun and had many students.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the concubine among the princes.
He built junior high school and was promoted to Zongzheng. He died in office and took charge of Zongzheng for the rest of his life.
◆The biography of Wa Dan, whose courtesy name is Ziyu, was born in Yuyang, Nanyang.
"Mencius Yi" has been passed down from generation to generation.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he often retreated from the world to teach his students, determined not to be an official, and had as many as several hundred students. In the early years of Jianwu, he was slightly promoted and became a doctor. In the eleventh year of Jianwu, he was promoted to Dahonglu. He wrote seven chapters of "Yi Tong Lun". Wa Dan had profound knowledge, and the Book of Changes respected him and called him a great Confucian.
He died in office for seventeen years at the age of seventy.
At this time, Zhongshan Jiao Guiyanghong, whose courtesy name was Meng Sun, also taught students "Meng's Book of Changes" and became famous. He was the Shaofu in Yongpingzhong.
◆The biography of Ren An, named Dingzu, was from Mianzhu, Guanghan.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue, studied "Mencius' Book of Changes", and mastered several classics.
He also studied the Hetu Talisman Book with Yang Hou, a native of the same county, and studied its techniques in depth.
At that time, people said that he said: I want to know Zhonghuan and ask Ren An.
He also said: He lives in the present and travels in the past, appointing his ancestors.
After finishing his studies, he went home to teach his disciples, all of whom came from far away places.
Started to serve as an official in the state and county.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
后太尉再辟，除博士，公车征，皆称疾不就。
州牧刘焉表荐之，时王涂隔塞，诏命竟不至。
年七十九，建安七年，卒于家。
杨政字子行，京兆人也。
少好学，从代郡范升受《梁丘易》，善说经书。
京师为之语曰： 说经铿铿杨子行。
教授数百人。
范升尝为出妇所告，坐系狱，政乃肉袒，以箭贯耳，抱升子潜伏道傍，候车驾，而持章叩头大言曰： 范升三娶，唯有一子，今适三岁，孤之可哀。
武骑虎贲惧惊乘舆，举弓射之，犹不肯去；旄头又以戟叉政，伤胸，政犹不退。
哀泣辞请，有感帝心，诏曰： 乞杨生师。
即尺一出升，政由是显名。
为人嗜酒，不拘小节，果敢自矜，然笃于义。
时，帝婿梁松、皇后弟阴就，皆慕其声名，而请与交友。
政每共言论，常切磋恳至，不为屈挠。
尝诣杨虚侯马武，武难见政，称疾不为起。
政入户，径升床排武，把臂责之曰： 卿蒙国恩，备位籓辅，不思求贤以报殊宠，而骄天下英俊，此非养身之道也。
今日动者刀入胁。
武诸子及左右皆大惊，以为见劫，操兵满侧，政颜色自若。
会阴就至，责数武，令为交友。
其刚果任情，皆如此也。
建初中，官至左中郎将。
张兴字君上，颍川鄢陵人也。
习《梁丘易》以教授。
translation: 
Later, the Taiwei repeatedly recruited him, awarded him a doctorate, and even summoned him on the bus, but he refused to go because of his illness.
Liu Yan, the governor of the state, recommended it. At this time, the road was blocked and the edict was not fulfilled.
He died at home at the age of seventy-nine, the seventh year of Jian'an.
◆Yang Zhengchuan, named Zixing, was born in Jingzhao.
He was young and eager to learn. He studied "Liang Shiyi" from Dai Junfan and was good at expounding the classics.
There is a popular saying in the capital: "The classics are spoken by Yang Zixing."
Teach hundreds of people.
Fan Sheng once suffered from being a nun and was imprisoned. Yang Zheng then got naked, pierced his ears with arrows, took Fan Sheng's son and hid by the roadside, waiting for the emperor's carriage. He kowtowed with a memorial and shouted: "Fan Sheng has only one son from his third marriage. He is only three years old now and has become an orphan. How pitiful he is."
Fearing that the emperor would be frightened, the martial cavalryman Hu Ben raised his bow and shot Yang Zheng, but Yang Zheng still refused to move away. He stabbed Yang Zheng with his halberd again, wounding Yang Zheng's chest, but Yang Zheng still refused to retreat.
The emperor was moved by his weeping and pleading, and issued an edict: "Begging Yang to be a teacher."
Immediately issued an edict to release Fan Sheng. Yang Zheng became famous for this.
Yang Zheng likes to drink, is dissolute and does not pay attention to details, and is resolute and self-reliant, but he attaches great importance to friendship.
At that time, the emperor's son-in-law Liang Song and the queen's brother Yin Jiu were envious of his reputation and asked to be friends with him.
Yang Zheng often discussed with them, encouraged each other, agreed with each other, and were unyielding.
I once went to Yang Xuhou Ma Wu's place. Ma Wu didn't want to meet Yang Zheng and couldn't get up because he was sick.
Yang Zheng entered the house, climbed up to the bed and attacked Ma Wu, grabbed his arm, and asked him: "You have been favored by the country and hold an important position as vassal assistant. You don't want to ask for wise men to repay the emperor's special favor. You are arrogant and arrogant towards the world's talents. This is not a way to maintain your health."
If you dare to move your hands or feet today, the knife will go into your side.
Ma Wu's sons and the people around him were all horrified, thinking it was robbery. They stood next to Ma Wu with weapons in hand. Yang Zheng's expression did not change, as if nothing had happened.
Yin arrived just in time to criticize Ma Wu and make him friends with Yang Zheng.
Yang Zheng's Congo willfulness is like this.
A junior middle school was built, and the official rank was Zuozhonglangjiang.
◆Zhang Xingzhuan, named Junshang, was from Yanling, Yingchuan.
Study "Liangqiu Yi" to teach students.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
建武中，举孝廉为郎，谢病去，复归聚徒。
后辟司徒冯勤府，勤举为教廉，稍迁博士。
永平初，迁侍中祭酒。
十年，拜太子少傅。
显宗数访问经术。
既而声称著闻，弟子自远至者，著录且万人，为梁丘家宗。
十四年，卒于官。
子鲂，传兴业，位至张掖属国都尉。
戴凭字次仲，汝南平舆人也。
习《京氏易》。
年十六，郡举明经，征试博士，拜郎中。
时，诏公卿大会，群臣皆就席，凭独立。
光武问其意。
凭对曰： 博士说经皆不如臣，而坐居臣上，是以不得就席。
帝即召上殿，令与诸儒难说，凭多所解释。
帝善之，拜为侍中，数进见问得失。
帝谓凭曰： 侍中当匡补国政，勿有隐情。
凭对曰： 陛下严。
帝曰： 朕何用严？
translation: 
During the Jianwu period, he promoted Xiaolian to be a minister. He went back due to illness and gathered his disciples to give lectures.
Later, Situ Fengqin's mansion was established, and Feng Qin was promoted to Xiaolian and doctor.
At the beginning of Yongping, the minister promoted wine.
In the tenth year of Yongping, he was awarded the title of Prince Shaofu.
Xianzong asked him many times about scriptures.
Since then, his reputation has spread far and near. There are nearly ten thousand disciples from far away, and he is respected by the Liangqiu family.
In the fourteenth year of Yongping, he died in office.
His son Zhang Li passed on Zhang Xing's education and became the captain of Zhangye's vassal state.
◆Dai Pingzhuan, named Cizhong, was born in Pingyu, Runan.
Study "Jing's Book of Changes".
When he was sixteen years old, the county elected him as a doctor, and he was awarded the title of doctor.
At this time, the imperial court convened a meeting of ministers. All the ministers were seated at the table, but Dai Ping stood alone.
Guangwu asked him what he meant.
Ping replied: The wise men are not as good as me in preaching the scriptures, but they sit on top of me, so I will not sit down at the table.
Guangwu immediately summoned him to the palace and ordered him to discuss difficult questions with the Confucian scholars, and Dai Ping explained many of them.
The emperor thought it was very good. He was appointed as a minister and met with him many times to inquire about political gains and losses.
The emperor said to Dai Ping: "Servants should correct and assist in national affairs, and should not remain silent if they have opinions."
Dai Ping replied: The emperor is too strict.
The emperor said: Why am I too strict?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
凭曰： 伏见前太尉西曹掾蒋遵，清亮忠孝，学通古今，陛下纳肤受之诉，遂致禁锢，世以是为严。
帝怒曰： 汝南子欲复党乎？
凭出，自系廷尉，有诏敕出。
后复引见，凭谢曰： 臣无謇谔之节，而有狂瞽之言，不能以尸伏谏，偷生苟活，诚惭圣朝。
帝即敕尚书解遵禁锢，拜凭虎贲中郎将，以侍中兼领之。
正旦朝贺，百僚毕会，帝令群臣能说经者更相难诘，义有不通，辄夺其席以益通者，凭遂重坐五十余席。
故京师为之语曰： 解经不穷戴侍中。
在职十八年，卒于官，诏赐东园梓器，钱二十万。
时南阳魏满字叔牙，亦习《京氏易》，教授。
永平中，至弘农太守。
孙期字仲彧，济阴成武人也。
少为诸生，习《京氏易》、《古文尚书》。
translation: 
Dai Ping said: The former Taiwei of Xicao, Jiang Zun, was an upright, loyal and filial man, and had a thorough knowledge of the past and present. However, the emperor listened to the slander and did not know the truth, so he was banned from serving as an official.
They say the emperor is strict. The emperor was angry and said: "Does Runanzi want to restore the party disaster?"
When Dai Ping went out, he tied himself as a Tingwei and ordered him to come out.
Later, he was summoned again, and Dai Ping apologized and said: "I have no integrity, but I say arrogant and unreasonable things. I cannot lay down my body to persuade him. I live in an ignoble way. I am truly ashamed of the holy dynasty."
The emperor ordered the minister to lift Jiang Zun's imprisonment, and appointed Dai Ping as the general of Hu Ben Zhonglang, who also served as a servant.
The imperial court celebrated the first day of the lunar month, and all the officials gathered together. The emperor ordered those ministers who could explain the scriptures to ask each other questions. If the scriptures did not make sense, he took his seat and gave it to someone who could explain it. Dai Ping therefore sat on more than fifty seats.
There is a popular saying in the capital: "Execution of the Bible is endless and Dai Shizhong is the best."
After serving for eighteen years, he died in office. He was given a coffin and two hundred thousand yuan.
At this time, Nanyang Wei Man's courtesy name Shuya also studied "Jingshi Yi" and taught students.
In Yongpingzhong, he became the prefect of Hongnong.
According to Sun Qi's biography, Sun Qi's courtesy name was Zhong, and he became a martial artist in Jiyin.
When he was young, he was a student and studied "Jingshi Yi" and "Guwen Shangshu".


Chunk 8: 
original: 
家贫，事母至孝，牧豕于大泽中，以奉养焉。
远人从其学者，皆执经垄畔以追之，里落化其仁让。
黄巾贼起，过期里陌，相约不犯孙先生舍。
郡举方正，遣吏赍羊、酒请期，期驱豕入草不顾。
司徒黄琬特辟，不行，终于家。
建武中，范升传《孟氏易》，以授杨政，而陈元、郑众皆传《费氏易》，其后马融亦为其传。
融授郑玄，玄作《易注》，荀爽又作《易传》，自是《费氏》兴，而《京氏》遂衰。
《前书》云：济南伏生传《尚书》，授济南张生及千乘欧阳生，欧阳生授同郡宽，宽授欧阳生之子，世世相传，至曾孙欧阳高，为《尚书》欧阳氏学；张生授夏侯都尉，都尉授族子始昌，始昌传族子胜，为大夏侯氏学；胜传从兄子建，建别为小夏侯氏学：三家皆立博士。
translation: 
His family was very poor, but he was very filial to his mother. He raised pigs in the swamp to support his mother.
People from far away who studied with him took scriptures and pursued him beside the fields to study. The villagers were inspired by his benevolence and righteousness.
The Yellow Turban thieves set out and passed through Sun Qi's township. They agreed not to invade Mr. Sun's house.
The county promoted him as Founder and sent officials to bring sheep and wine to Sun Qi. Sun Qi drove the pigs into the swamp without even looking at him.
Situ Huangwan specially appointed him, but if he didn't go, he would die at home.
In Jianwu, Fan Sheng passed down Meng's Yi to teach Yang Zheng. Chen Yuan and Zheng Zhong both passed down Fei's Yi, and later Ma Yuan also passed down Fei's Yi.
Ma Rong taught it to Zheng Xuan, who wrote "Yi Zhu", and Xun Shuang wrote "Yi Zhuan". From then on, "Fei Shi" flourished and "Jing Shi" declined.
"Qianshu" says: Jinan Fu Sheng's "Shang Shu" was awarded to Zhang Sheng and Qiancheng Ouyang Sheng of Jinan. Ouyang Sheng was awarded to Ni Kuan of the same county, and Ni Kuan was awarded to Ouyang Sheng's son. It was passed down from generation to generation until his great-grandson Ouyang Gao, who became "Ouyang Sheng". Shangshu "Ouyang's School"; Zhang Sheng was awarded the title of Duwei of Xiahou, and the title of "Duwei" was granted to his son Shichang. Shichang passed down his clan to his son Sheng, who was called Daxiahouxue; Sheng was awarded to Cong brother Zi Jian, and Jian was called Xiaoxiahou's school; all three families established doctors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
又鲁人孔安国传《古文尚书》授都尉朝，朝授胶东庸谭，为《尚书》古文学，未得立。
欧阳歙字正思，乐安千乘人也。
自欧阳生传《伏生尚书》，至歙八世，皆为博士。
歙既传业，而恭谦好礼让。
王莽时，为长社宰。
更始立，为原武令。
世祖平河北，到原武，见歙在县修政，迁河南都尉，后行太守事。
世祖即位，始为河南尹，封被阳侯。
建武五年，坐事免官。
明年，拜杨州牧，迁汝南太守。
推用贤俊，政称异迹。
九年，更封夜侯。
歙在郡，教授数百人，视事九岁，征为大司徒。
坐在汝南臧罪千余万发觉下狱。
诸生守阙为歙求哀者千余人，至有自髡剔者。
translation: 
Kong Anguo of Lu also passed on the ancient literature "Shangshu" to Du Weichao, and the imperial court awarded it to Jiaodong Yongtan, which was called "Shangshu" ancient literature, but he failed to establish a doctorate.
◆Ouyang She's biography, Ouyang She's character Zhengsi, Le'an Qiancheng people.
From Ouyang Sheng's biography "Fu Sheng Shangshu" to Ouyang She's eighth generation, all of them were Ph.D.
Ouyang She inherited the family business and was courteous and courteous.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he served as the chief minister of society.
Gengshi was established as emperor and appointed as the original military commander.
Shizu Guangwu pacified Hebei and arrived at Yuanwu County. Seeing that Ouyang She had performed well in the county, he promoted him to the post of captain of Henan and later acted as the governor.
After Shizu became emperor, he became Yin of Henan and was granted the title of Marquis of Yang.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was dismissed from his official position due to some circumstances.
In the second year, he was granted the title of shepherd of Yangzhou and promoted to the prefect of Runan.
Recommend and select talented people, and your political performance will be very good.
In the ninth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Yehou.
Ouyang She was in the county and taught hundreds of people. He worked for nine years and was recruited as the chief disciple.
He was found to have embezzled more than 10 million yuan in Runan and was imprisoned.
More than a thousand people stood outside the palace gate to plead for Ouyang She. Some even shaved off their own hair to take the punishment.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
平原礼震，年十七，闻狱当断，驰之京师，行到河内获嘉县，自系，上书求代歙死。
曰： 伏见臣师大司徒欧阳歙，学为儒宗，八世博士，而以臧咎当伏重辜。
歙门单子幼，未能传学，身死之后，永为废绝，上令陛下获杀贤之讥，下使学者丧师资之益。
乞杀臣身以代歙命。
书奏，而歙已死狱中。
歙掾陈元上书追讼之，言甚切至，帝乃赐棺木，赠印绶，赙缣三千匹。
子复嗣。
复卒，无子，国除。
济阴曹曾字伯山，从歙受《尚书》，门徒三千人，位至谏议大夫。
子祉，河南尹，传父业教授。
又陈留陈弇，字叔明，亦受《欧阳尚书》于司徒丁鸿，仕为蕲长。
牟长字君高，乐安临济人也。
其先封牟，春秋之末，国灭，因氏焉。
长少习《欧阳尚书》，不仕王莽世。
translation: 
Pingyuan Lizhen, seventeen years old, heard about the prison sentence and rode from the capital to Huojia County, Hanoi. He tied himself up and wrote a letter asking to die on behalf of Ouyang She.
Said: My teacher, the Great Situ Ouyang She, is profound in knowledge and respected by Confucian scholars. He is a doctor of the eighth generation and should be punished with a serious crime for embezzlement.
Ouyang She's family was weak, and his son was still young and could not teach him. After his death, he was forever deposed. In this way, the emperor had a reputation for killing virtuous people; below, the students lost a good teacher.
Please kill me instead of Ouyang She.
According to the report, Ouyang She was already dead in prison.
Chen Yuan, the official of Ouyang Sheyun, wrote a letter to pursue the case, and his words were sincere. The emperor then gave him a coffin, a seal and a ribbon, and three thousand funeral strings.
His son Ouyang Fu inherited the title.
Ouyang Fu died without a son, and the country was destroyed.
Cao Zeng of Jiyin, also known as Boshan, studied Shangshu with Ouyang She. He had three thousand disciples, and he reached the position of admonishing the officials.
His son Cao Zhi, from Yin, Henan, passed on his father's studies and taught his children.
Chen Liuchen, whose courtesy name was Shuming, was also appointed as the chief of Qi by Situ Dinghong according to Ouyang Shangshu.
◆Mou Changzhuan, Mou Changzi Jungao, a native of Linji, Le'an.
His ancestors were granted the title of Mou. At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the country was destroyed, so they took Mou as their surname.
Mou Chang studied "Ouyang Shangshu" when he was young, but he did not become an official when Wang Mang was there.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
建武二年，大司空弘特辟，拜博士，稍迁河内太守，坐垦田不实免。
长自为博士及在河内，诸生讲学者常有千余人，著录前后万人。
著《尚书章句》，皆本之欧阳氏，俗号为《牟氏章句》。
复征为中散大夫，赐告一岁，卒于家。
子纡，又以隐居教授，门生千人。
肃宗闻而征之，欲以为博士，道物故。
宋登字叔阳，京兆长安人也。
父由，为太尉。
登少传《欧阳尚书》，教授数千人。
为汝阴令，政为明能，号称 神父 。
迁赵相，入为尚书仆射。
顺帝以登明识礼乐，使持节临太学，奏定曲律，转拜侍中。
数上封事，抑退权臣，由是出为颖川太守。
市无二价，道不拾遗。
病免，卒于家，汝阴人配社祠之。
张驯字子，济阴定陶人也。
translation: 
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, the Grand Sikong Song Hong appointed him as a doctor, promoted him to the prefect of Hanoi, and dismissed him from the official position because he did not cultivate enough land.
Since Mou Chang became a doctor and the governor of Hanoi, more than a thousand people often listened to his lectures, and there are more than ten thousand people recorded in the records.
The "Shang Shu Zhang Ju" was written based on Ouyang's theory, called "Mou Shi Zhang Ju".
He was promoted to Zhongsan doctor again, and the emperor allowed him to take his officials and family back home for treatment for one year, and he died at home.
His son Mou Xing was a reclusive professor with thousands of disciples.
Suzong heard about his recruitment and wanted him to be a doctor. He died on the road.
◆In the biography of Song Deng, Song Deng was named Shuyang and was a native of Jingzhao Chang'an.
His father, Song You, was appointed Taiwei.
When Song Deng was young, he wrote "Ouyang Shangshu" and taught thousands of students.
Ren Ruyin ordered him to be shrewd and capable in politics, and he was known as "Priest".
He was promoted to Prime Minister of Zhao and entered the court as Minister of Public Affairs.
Emperor Shun, because Song Deng was familiar with rituals and music, asked him to preside over the Imperial Academy.
He secretly complained to powerful ministers many times, so he was released from the court and appointed as the prefect of Yingchuan.
During his tenure, there were no two prices for goods in business. If something was lost on the road, no one would pick it up.
He was dismissed from office due to illness and died at home. The people of Ruyin set up a community to worship him.
◆Zhang Xun's biography, Zhang Xun's courtesy name is Ziyi, and he was born in Dingtao, Jiyin.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
少游太学，能诵《春秋左氏传》。
以《大夏侯尚书》教授。
辟公府，举高第，拜议郎。
与蔡邕共奏定《六经》文字。擢拜侍中，典领秘书近署，甚见纳异。
多因便宜陈政得失，朝廷嘉之。
迁丹阳太守，化有惠政。
光和七年，征拜尚书，迁大司农。
初平中，卒于官。
尹敏字幼季，南阳堵阳人也。
少为诸生。
初习《欧阳尚书》，后受《古文》，兼善《毛诗》、《穀梁》、《左氏春秋》。
建武二年，上疏陈《洪范》消灾之术。
时，世祖方草创天下，未遑其事，命敏待诏公车，拜郎中，辟大司空府。
帝以敏博通经记，令校图谶，使蠲去崔发所为王莽著录次比。
敏对曰： 谶书非圣人所作，其中多近鄙别字，颇类世俗之辞，恐疑误后生。
帝不纳。
敏因其阙文增之曰： 君无口，为汉辅。
帝见而怪之，召敏问其故。
敏对曰： 臣见前人增损图书，敢不自量，窃幸万一。
帝深非之，虽竟不罪，而亦以此沈滞。
与班彪亲善，每相遇，辄日旰忘食，夜分不寝，自以为钟期、伯牙，庄周、惠施之相得也。
后三迁长陵令。
translation: 
When he was young, he entered Imperial College and was able to recite "The Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Zhuan".
Use "Da Xia Hou Shangshu" to teach students.
Established the Duke's mansion, promoted him to a high position, and granted him the title of Yilang.
Together with Cai Yong, he composed the text of the Six Classics, was promoted to the rank of Shizhong, presided over the office of secretary, and adopted different opinions.
He took advantage of many opportunities to state political gains and losses to the emperor and won awards from the court.
He was promoted to the prefect of Danyang, and his politics were clear and clear, and the people loved him very much.
In the seventh year of Guanghe's reign, he was promoted to Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture.
In Chu Pingzhong, he died in office.
◆The biography of Yin Min, named Youji, was born in Duyang, Nanyang.
When he was young, he was a living being.
He began to study "Ouyang Shangshu", and later "Guwen" and "Mao Shi", "Gu Liang" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu".
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, a report was sent to the emperor stating "Hong Fan"'s methods for eliminating disasters.
At that time, Shi Zufang founded the world and did not take this matter into consideration. He ordered Yin Min to wait for the imperial edict, appoint a doctor, and establish the Great Sikong Mansion.
The emperor believed that Yin Min was knowledgeable about the classics and ordered him to correct the prophecy and remove the description of Wang Mang's writings written by Cui Fa.
Yin Min reported back: The prophecy was not written by a saint. There are many typos in it, which are very similar to secular slang, which may harm future generations.
The emperor did not accept it.
Yin Min added based on the missing text: Jun Wukou, for Hanfu.
The emperor felt strange when he saw it, and summoned Yin Min to ask him what was the reason.
Yin Min replied: I saw people in the past adding and subtracting books without thinking about their own abilities, so I also learned to do this, selfishly hoping that I would not be found guilty.
The emperor was very dissatisfied. Although he did not accuse him, Yin Min was not allowed to be reused from now on.
Yin Min and Ban Biao were good friends. When they met, they often talked until the sun went down, forgetting to eat, and staying up late at night. They thought they were the best in Zhong Ziqi, Boya, Zhuang Zhou, and Hui Shi.
Later, he was promoted to the post of Changling Order.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
永平五年，诏书捕男子周虑。
虑素有名称，而善于敏，敏坐系免官。及出，叹曰： 喑聋之徒，真世之有道者也。
何谓察察而遇斯患乎？
十一年，除郎中，迁谏议大夫。
卒于家。周防字伟公，汝南汝阳人也。
父扬，少孤微，常修逆旅，以供过客，而不受其报。
防年十六，仕郡小吏。
世祖巡狩汝南，召掾史试经，防尤能诵读，拜为守丞。
防以未冠，谒去。
师事徐州剌史盖豫，受《古文尚书》。经明，举孝廉，拜郎中。
撰《尚书杂记》三十二篇，四十万言。
太尉张禹荐补博士，稍迁陈留太守，坐法免。
年七十八，卒于家。
子举，自有传。
孔僖字仲和，鲁国鲁人也。
自安国以下，世传《古文尚书》、《毛诗》。
曾祖父子建，少游长安，与崔篆友善。
及篆仕王莽为建新大尹，尝劝子建仕。
对曰： 吾有布衣之心，子有衮冕之志，各从所好，不亦善乎！
translation: 
In the fifth year of Yongping, an edict was issued to arrest the man Zhou Liu.
Zhou Lu had a good reputation and had a good relationship with Yin Min. Because of this, Yin Min was dismissed from office. When he was released from prison, he sighed and said: Deaf and mute people are really wise people in the world.
Otherwise, why would those who are aware of things encounter such disasters?
In the eleventh year of Yongping's reign, he was promoted to admonish an official and died at home.
The biography of Zhou Fang, named Weigong, was from Ruyang, Runan.
His father, Zhou Yang, lost his father when he was young and his family was poor. He once opened a hotel to accommodate guests without charging any compensation.
When Zhou Fang was sixteen years old, he became an official in the county.
Shizu went on a tour of Runan and summoned the governor to examine the classics. Zhou Fang was particularly good at reciting and was awarded the title of Shoucheng.
Zhou Fang is not yet an adult, please go.
He studied "Guwen Shangshu" from Gai Yu, the governor of Xuzhou, and he was familiar with the classics and meanings. He was promoted to be filial and honest, and was awarded the title of doctor.
He is the author of thirty-two chapters of "Shangshu Miscellaneous Notes", totaling 400,000 words.
The Taiwei Zhang Yu recommended him to be a doctor and promoted him to the Grand Administrator of Chenliu. However, he was dismissed from his official position for breaking the law.
Died at home at the age of seventy-eight.
There is another biography about his son Zhou Ju.
◆The biography of Kong Xi, whose courtesy name was Zhonghe, was from the state of Lu.
From Kong Anguo down, "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi" were handed down from generation to generation.
Great-grandfather Confucius Zijian traveled to Chang'an to study in his youth and became friendly with Cui Zhuan.
When Cui Zhuan became an official and Wang Mang was appointed as the Great Yin of Jianxin, he once persuaded Confucius to become an official.
Zijian answered him, "I have the desire to be a commoner, and you have the ambition to be an official. Isn't it great that everyone listens to his own preferences?"


Chunk 14: 
original: 
道既乘矣，请从此辞。
遂归，终于家。
僖与崔篆孙骃复相友善，同游太学，习《春秋》。
因读吴王夫差时事，僖废书叹曰： 若是，所谓画龙不成反为狗者。
骃曰： 然。
昔孝武皇帝始为天子，年方十八，崇信圣道，师则先王，五六年间，号胜文、景。
及后恣己，忘其前之为善。
僖曰： 书传若此多矣！
邻房生梁郁和之曰： 如此，武帝亦是狗邪？
僖、骃默然不对。
郁怒恨之，阴上书告骃、僖诽谤先帝，刺讥当世。
事下有司，骃诣吏受讯。
僖以吏捕方至，恐诛，乃上书肃宗自讼曰：臣之愚意，以为凡言诽谤者，谓实无此事而虚加诬之也。
至如孝武皇帝，政之美恶，显在汉史，坦如日月。
是为直说书传实事，非虚谤也。
夫帝者为善，则天下之善咸归焉；其不善，则天下之恶亦萃焉。斯皆有以致之，故不可以诛于人也。
translation: 
Since the paths we take are different, please don’t do it again.
He went back and died at home.
Kong Xi and Cui Zhuan's grandson Cui Xiang were good friends. They traveled together in Taixue and studied "Spring and Autumn".
After reading the current affairs of Wu King Fu Chai, Kong Xi discarded the book and sighed, saying: So, this is what is called painting a tiger instead of a dog.
Cui Xiang said: Yes.
In the past, when Emperor Xiaowu was the emperor, he was only eighteen years old. He believed in the ways of saints and followed the example of the previous kings. Within five or six years, he was said to be more thrifty than Emperors Wen and Jing.
In the end, I acted arbitrarily and forgot my previous benefits.
Kong Xi said: There are many such things in the book!
Liang Yu, the neighbor's student, echoed: "So, is Emperor Wu also a dog?"
Kong Xi and Cui Xiang remained silent.
Liang Yufa was angry and hated them, and secretly wrote a letter to Cui Xiang and Kong Xi for slandering the late emperor and ridiculing the world.
The court handed over the matter to the person in charge, and Cui Xiang went to the jailer for interrogation.
When Kong Xi saw that his arresters were coming, he was afraid of being executed, so he wrote to Suzong to complain: My stupid point is that anything called slander means that there is no such thing in fact, and it is just a fabricated slander.
As for Emperor Xiaowu, the political good and bad were written as clearly as the sun and moon in the history of Han Dynasty.
This is called telling the truth and not fabricating it.
If the emperor is good, all the good in the world will be attributed to him; if the emperor is not good, all the evil in the world will be concentrated on him. There are reasons for this, and you cannot blame others.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
且陛下即位以来，政教未过，而德泽有加，天下所具也，臣等独何讥刺哉？
假使所非实是，则固应悛改；倘其不当，亦宜含容，又何罪焉？
陛下不推原大数，深自为计，徒肆私忿，以快其意。
臣等受戮，死即死耳，顾天下之人，必回视易虑，以此事窥陛下心。
自今以后，苟见不可之事，终莫复言者矣。
臣之所以不爱其死，犹敢极言者，诚为陛下深惜此大业。
陛下若不自惜，则臣何赖焉？
齐桓公亲扬其先君之恶，以唱管仲，然后群臣得尽其心。
今陛下乃欲以十世之武帝，远讳实事，岂不与桓公异哉？
臣恐有司卒然见构，衔恨蒙枉，不得自叙，使后世论者，擅以陛下有所方比，宁可复使子孙追掩之乎？
谨诣阙伏待重诛。
帝始亦无罪僖等意，及书奏，立诏勿问，拜僖兰台令史。
translation: 
Moreover, since the emperor came to the throne, he has done nothing wrong in politics, but has done many good things for the people. Everyone in the world knows it, so why should we ridicule him?
If what is being criticized is the truth, then one should repent and correct it resolutely; if what is said is inappropriate, one should be tolerant, so why should he be blamed?
The emperor did not overestimate the original number, but thought deeply about it, just to vent his personal anger and satisfy his own wishes.
We will die if we are killed, but people in the world will definitely change their past views on the emperor and observe the emperor's intentions from this incident.
From now on, if I see something inappropriate, I will never say it again.
The reason why I am not afraid of death and dare to say this without any worries is because I truly care for the great cause of the world for Your Majesty.
If the emperor doesn't take care of me, what can I do?
Duke Huan of Qi personally exposed the faults of his ancestors to inspire Guan Zhong, and then all his officials were able to serve the country wholeheartedly.
Now the emperor actually wants to conceal the facts because the tenth emperor was a long time ago. Isn't it too far away from Huan Gong?
I'm afraid that the person in charge will be harmed suddenly, and he will be resented and wronged, and he will not be able to appeal, so that people in future generations will casually compare him to the emperor. Can he be redressed and covered up by his descendants?
I respectfully went to the court to await severe punishment.
The emperor originally had no intention of incriminating Kong Xi and others, so he sent the memorial to him, and immediately issued an edict to grant Kong Xi the title of Lantai Order without questioning the charges.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
元和二年春，帝东巡狩，还过鲁，幸阙里，以太牢祠孔子及七十二弟子，作六代之乐，大会孔氏男子二十以上者六十三人，命儒者讲《论语》。
僖因自陈谢。
帝曰： 今日之会，宁于卿宗有光荣乎？
对曰： 臣闻明王圣主，莫不尊师贵道。
今陛下亲屈万乘，辱临敝里，此乃崇礼先师，增辉圣德。
至于光荣，非所敢承。
帝大笑曰： 非圣者子孙，焉有斯言乎！
遂拜僖郎中，赐褒成侯损及孔氏男女线、帛，诏僖从还京师，使校书东观。
冬，拜临晋令，崔骃以《家林》筮之，谓为不吉，止僖曰： 子盍辞乎？
僖曰： 学不为人，仕不择官，凶吉由己，而由卜乎？
在县三年，卒官，遗令即葬。二子：长彦、季彦，并十余岁。
蒲坂令许君然劝令反鲁。对曰： 今载柩而归，则违父令；舍墓而去，心所不忍。
translation: 
In the spring of the second year of Yuanhe, the emperor visited the East. When he came back, he passed by Lu and went to Queli. He sacrificed oxen to Confucius and his seventy-two disciples. He played music from the Yellow Emperor, Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, and Six Dynasties. He held a meeting with sixty-three Confucian men over twenty years old and ordered Confucian scholars to speak the Analects of Confucius.
Kong Xiyin thanked the emperor.
The emperor said: Isn't today's meeting an honor for you, Kong?
Kong Xi replied: I heard that there are no wise saints who do not respect their teachers and their teachings.
Now that the Emperor, as the Son of Heaven, has come to us in person, he is paying homage to our teacher and making his holy virtue more glorious.
As for glory, I dare not bear it.
The emperor laughed and said: "If you are not a descendant of a saint, how can you say such good things!"
He appointed Kong Xi as a doctor, gave him money and silk to praise Chenghou and the Kong family, ordered Kong Xi to return to the capital with him, and asked him to correct his books in Dongguan.
In the winter of this year, when the Jin Dynasty was granted the order, Cui Xiang used the "Jialin" to divine. He couldn't tell, so he stopped Kong Xi and said, "You might as well resign."
Kong Xi said: Studying is not about being a person, and officials are not about choosing what kind of official they should be. Good or bad luck depends on oneself. Is it a matter of divination?
If you die in office, your will will be buried on the spot. The second sons, Chang Yan and Ji Yan, are both in their teens.
Pu Ban ordered Xu Junran to persuade them to return to their place of origin in Lu, and replied: "To return with my father's coffin now is a violation of my father's will; to leave without leaving the tomb is unbearable."


Chunk 17: 
original: 
遂留华阴。
长彦好章句学，季彦守其家业，门徒数百人。
延光元年，河西大雨雹，大者如斗。
安帝诏有道术之士极陈变眚，乃召季彦见于德阳殿，帝亲问其故。
对曰： 此皆阴乘阳之征也。
今贵臣擅权，母后党盛，陛下宜修圣德，虑此二者。
帝默然，左右皆恶之。
举孝廉，不就。
三年，年四十七，终于家。
初，平帝时王莽秉政，乃封孔子后孔均为褒成侯，追谥孔子为褒成宣尼。
及莽败，失国。
建武十三年，世祖复封均子志为褒成侯。
志卒，子损嗣。
永元四年，徙封褒亭侯。
损卒，子曜嗣。
曜卒，子完嗣。
世世相传，至献帝初，国绝。
杨伦字仲理，陈留东昏人也。
少为诸生，师事司徒丁鸿，习《古文尚书》。
translation: 
So he stayed in Huayin.
Chang Yan was good at the study of chapters and sentences, and Ji Yan kept his family business and passed down the studies of "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi". There are hundreds of disciples.
In the first year of Yanguang, heavy hail fell in the west of the river, as big as a bucket.
Emperor An ordered people with Taoist skills to report the disaster and summoned Kong Jiyan in Deyang Palace. The emperor personally asked Kong Jiyan what was the reason.
Kong Jiyan replied: This is a sign that yin overcomes yang.
Now that the ministers have exclusive power and the queen mother's party is strong, the emperor should cultivate his virtue and consider these two things.
The emperor remained silent, and everyone around him hated Kong Jiyan.
If you want to be filial and honest, you won't be able to do it.
Three years later, at the age of forty-seven, he died at home.
In the past, Emperor Ping took power over Wang Mang. He named Kong Jun, a descendant of Confucius, as Baochenghou, and posthumously named Confucius as Baocheng Xuanni.
After Wang Mang failed, he lost his feudal state.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Shizu granted Kong Zhi, Kong Jun's son, the title of Marquis of Cheng.
After Kong Zhi passed away, his son Kong Sun inherited the throne.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, he moved to Baotinghou.
Kong Sun died and his son Kong Yao succeeded him.
After Kong Yao passed away, his son Kong Wan inherited the throne.
It has been passed down from generation to generation that in the early years of Emperor Xian's reign, all feudal states were cut off.
◆Yang Lun's biography, Yang Lun's courtesy name is Zhongli, and his name is Chen Liudong.
When he was young, he was a student and worshiped Situ Dinghong as his teacher and studied "Guwen Shangshu".


Chunk 18: 
original: 
为郡文学掾。
更历数将，志乘于时，以不能人间事，遂去职，不复应州郡命。
讲授于大泽中，弟子至千余人。
元初中，郡礼请，三府并辟，公车征，皆辞疾不就。
后特征博士，为清河王傅。
是岁，安帝崩，伦辄弃官奔丧，号泣阙下不绝声。
阎太后以其专擅去职，坐抵罪。
顺帝即位，诏免伦刑，遂留行丧于恭陵。
服阕，征拜侍中。
是时，邵陵令任嘉在职贪秽，因迁武威太守，后有司奏嘉臧罪千万，征考廷尉，其所牵染将相大臣百有余人。
伦乃上书曰： 臣闻《春秋》诛恶及本，本诛则恶消；振裘持领，领正则毛理。
今任嘉所坐狼藉，未受辜戮，猥以垢身，改典大郡，自非案坐举者，无以禁绝奸萌。
往者湖陆令张叠、萧令驷贤、徐州刺史刘福等，衅秽既章，咸伏其诛，而豺狼之吏至今不绝者，岂非本举之主不加之罪乎？
昔齐威之霸，杀奸臣五人，并及举者，以弭谤讟。
translation: 
He was appointed as literary director of the county.
After passing through several county generals, his ambitions were not in line with the times. Because he did not know how to deal with the secular "official skills", he resigned, and from then on he no longer accepted appointments from the states and counties.
He taught in Dazezhong and had more than a thousand disciples.
In the junior middle school of the Yuan Dynasty, the county invited him with courtesy, and the three prefectures recruited him. He was recruited by bus, but he was not allowed to come because of illness.
Later, he became a doctor of characteristics and became Prince Fu of Qinghe.
This year, when Emperor An passed away, Yang Lun abandoned his official position and went to the funeral, wailing and weeping constantly in the palace.
Empress Dowager Yan dismissed his official position and was convicted because of his expertise.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and ordered Yang Lun to be exempted from punishment, and he stayed in Gongling to hold funerals.
After serving enough, he was recruited to serve as a servant.
At this time, Shao Ling ordered Ren Jia to commit corruption while in office and was promoted to the prefect of Wuwei. Later, the administrator reported that Ren Jia had stolen tens of millions of stolen goods and was summoned to the imperial court for questioning, involving more than a hundred generals and ministers.
Yang Lun then wrote a letter saying: I heard that "Spring and Autumn" said that to punish evil, you must find the root cause. If the root cause is eliminated, the rest will naturally be eliminated; when lifting fur, you must hold the fur collar. If the fur collar is straight, the fur will naturally be in order.
Now the corruption crime committed by Ren Jia is extremely serious, but it has not been dealt with. Instead, he has been transferred to the county as a criminal. If the person who was originally recommended is not punished, the crime of rape cannot be banned.
In the past, Hulu Ling Zhang Die, Xiao Ling Ma Yinxian, Xuzhou Governor Liu Fu and others were all executed after their crimes were understood. However, there are still many officials who are like wolves. Isn't this why the recommended people are not punished?
In the past, when Qi became a powerful hegemon, he killed five treacherous ministers and implicated all the recommended people, thus stopping the spread of slander.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
当断不断，《黄石》所戒。
夫圣王所以听僮夫匹妇之言者，犹尘加嵩岱，雾集淮海，虽未有益，不为损也。
惟陛下留神省察。
奏御，有司以伦言切直，辞不逊顺，下之。
尚书奏伦探知密事，激以求直。坐不敬，结鬼薪。
诏书以伦数进忠言，特原之，免归田里。
阳嘉二年，征拜太中大夫。
大将军梁商以为长史。
谏诤不合，出补常山王傅，病不之官。
诏书敕司隶催促发遣，伦乃留河内朝歌，以疾自上，曰： 有留死一尺，无北行一寸。
刎颈不易，九裂不恨。
匹夫所执，强于三军。
固敢有辞。
帝乃下诏曰： 伦出幽升高，宠以籓傅，稽留王命，擅止道路，托疾自从，苟肆狷志。
遂征诣廷尉，有诏原罪。
伦前后三征，皆以直谏不合。
translation: 
If you continue to cut off, you will suffer chaos. This is what Huang Shigong warned.
The sages and wise kings who listen to the words of ordinary people are like dust added to Mount Song and Mount Tai, and clouds and mist gathered in Huaihai. Although they do not add anything, they do not lose anything.
I hope the emperor will pay attention and investigate.
The book is delivered. The person in charge thought that Yang Lun's words were too direct and the wording was not tactful, so he made it public.
Shangshu reported that Yang Lun had discovered state secrets and spoke passionately to show his integrity. He was charged with disrespect and concluded to be guilty of ghost salary.
The imperial edict considered that Yang Lun had made many loyal remarks, so he was especially forgiven and dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the second year of Yangjia, he was awarded the title of Taizhong doctor.
General Liang Shang was appointed as the chief historian.
Because of the disagreement, he was sent to serve as the king of Changshan, but he was unable to take up his post due to illness.
The imperial edict urged him to go, but Yang Lun stayed in Hanoi and wrote a letter because of his illness: "If you stay, you will die, and if you don't go north, you will not go north."
Even if you are beheaded, you will not change your mind, and you will not regret even after nine deaths.
The defense of an ordinary man is stronger than the three armies.
Because I dare to write lyrics.
The emperor then issued an edict saying: Yang Lun came out of the low place and went up to the high ground. He did not follow the king's orders and stopped the road without permission. He took advantage of his illness and indulged his wild ambitions.
So he recruited Tingwei and ordered him to forgive his sins.
Yang Lun was summoned three times, but he always disagreed with his opinions.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
既归，闭门讲授，自绝人事。
公车复征，逊遁不行，卒于家。
中兴，北海牟融习《大夏侯尚书》，东海王良习《小夏侯尚书》，沛国桓荣习《欧阳尚书》。
荣世习相传授，东京最盛。
扶风杜林传《古文尚书》，林同郡贾逵为之作训，马融作传，郑玄注解，由是《古文尚书》遂显于世。
translation: 
After returning home, he lectured behind closed doors and did not interact with others.
The bus was called again, and he escaped and died at home.
Guangwu Zhongxing, Beihai Mou Rong studied "Da Xia Hou Shangshu", Donghai Wang Liang studied "Xiao Xia Hou Shangshu", and Pei Guo Huan Rong studied "Ouyang Shangshu".
Huan Rong studied and taught for generations, and Tokyo said he was the most prosperous.
Fufeng Du Lin passed the "Gu Wen Shangshu", Jia Kui, a native of the same county as Du Lin, did textual research on him, Ma Rong wrote the biography, and Zheng Xuan made the annotations. Therefore, the "Gu Wen Shangshu" has become the most important in the world.


