Summary uses chunk [1, 4, 10, 20]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
飨射礼毕，帝正坐自讲，诸儒执经问难于前，冠带缙绅之人，圜桥门而观听者盖亿万计。
其后复为功臣子孙、四姓末属别立校舍，搜选高能以受其业，自期门羽林之士，悉令通《孝经》章句，匈奴亦遣子入学。
济济乎，洋洋乎，盛于永平矣！建初中，大会诸儒于白虎观，考详同异，连月乃罢。
肃宗亲临称制，如石渠故事，顾命史臣，著为通义。
又诏高才生受《古文尚书》、《毛诗》、《穀梁》、《左氏春秋》，虽不立学官，然皆擢高第为讲郎，给事近署，所以网罗遗逸，博存众家。
孝和亦数幸东观，览阅书林。
及邓后称制，学者颇懈。
时，樊准、徐防并陈敦学之宜，又言儒职多非其人，于是制诏公卿妙简其选，三署郎能通经术者，皆得察举。
自安帝览政，薄于艺文，博士倚席不讲，朋徒相视怠散，学舍穨敝，鞠为园蔬，牧兒荛竖，至于薪刈其下。
顺帝感翟酺之言，乃更修黉宇，凡所结构二百四十房，千八百五十室。
试明经下第补弟子，增甲乙之科员各十人，除郡国耆儒皆补郎、舍人。
本初元年，梁太后诏曰： 大将军下至六百石，悉遣子就学，每岁辄于乡射月一飨会之，以此为常。
自是游学增盛，至三万余生。
然章句渐疏，而多以浮华相尚，儒者之风盖衰矣。
党人既诛，其高名善士多坐流废，后遂至忿争，更相信告，亦有私行金货，定兰台漆书经字，以合其私文。
熹平四年，灵帝乃诏诸儒正定《五经》，刊于石碑，为古文、篆、隶三体书法以相参检，树之学门，使天下咸取则焉。
translation: 
After the guests were dined and the rituals with the princes were completed, the emperor was sitting down to give a lecture. Confucian scholars were holding scriptures and asking questions. There were countless ministers and scholar-bureaucrats who walked around the bridge gate to watch and listen to the lecture.
After that, for the descendants of the meritorious officials and the last members of the four surnames, separate schools were established, and talented people were selected to teach. All the people from Yulin in Qimen were taught the chapters and verses of the "Book of Filial Piety", and the Xiongnu also sent their children to school.
Beautiful! So grand! It flourishes in Yongping! When the junior high school was built, the Confucians gathered at Baihu Temple to assess similarities and differences for several months.
Suzong personally came to give instructions. For example, in the third year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu, he discussed the story in Shiqu Pavilion with Confucian scholars Wei Xuancheng, Liang Qiuhe and others. He ordered Shi Chen to write "White Tiger Tongyi".
He also ordered the talented students to receive "Guwen Shangshu", "Mao Shi", "Gu Liang" and "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu". Although they did not establish academic officials, they all promoted Gao Di to be a lecturer and give them a close handle. This was to catch the omissions and recluse, and to attract many families.
Xiaohe also visited Dongguan many times and read many books.
When Empress Deng exercised the power of the emperor, many scholars were slack.
At this time, both Fan Zhun and Xu Fang wrote letters stating the importance of teaching, and saying that there were too many Confucian positions for which they were not qualified, so they ordered the ministers to carefully select, and all the doctors in the three departments who were proficient in Confucian classics were elected.
After Emperor An took over the government, he did not pay attention to art and literature. Doctors reclined on seats without giving lectures. Friends looked at me and I looked at you. They were lazy and undisciplined. The school building was also ruined and became a vegetable garden. Here, shepherds and woodcutter gathered firewood and cut grass.
Emperor Shun was inspired by Zhai Youfu's words, so he rebuilt the school and built a total of 240 rooms and 1,850 rooms.
After taking the Ming Jing examination, the first disciples were recruited, and ten members of the first and second departments were added. Except for the senior scholars in the county and country, all the disciples were recruited.
In the first year of Benchu, the Empress Dowager Liang issued an edict: All the generals, down to six hundred stones, would send their children to school. Every year, they would dine with guests and gather with the princes in this month. This was a common practice.
Since then, the number of people studying abroad has increased, reaching more than 30,000 students.
However, the chapters and sentences gradually became sparse and more pompous, and the Confucian spirit declined.
The party members were executed, and most of the famous and philanthropic people were exiled and abandoned. Later, they accused each other out of anger, some secretly traded gold goods, and changed the characters of the Lantai lacquer script to match his private documents.
In the fourth year of Xiping's reign, Emperor Ling ordered all the Confucian scholars to rectify the Five Classics and engrave them on stone tablets, using ancient Chinese, seal script, and official calligraphy to verify each other.

summary:
summary line 0: During the reigns of Wang Mang and Gengshi, the world fell into chaos, causing the collapse of rituals and music and the loss of documents. Emperor Guangwu, who favored classical studies, gathered scholars and restored texts. Scholars from across the land brought their books to the capital. The state established fourteen doctors for the Five Classics, each teaching according to their family methods. In the fifth year of Jianwu, the Imperial Academy was built, and later, structures like Piyong, Mingtang, and Lingtai were erected. Emperor Ming personally performed rituals, lectured on classics, and established separate schools for descendants of meritorious officials. The Xiongnu even sent their children to study. During Emperor Zhang’s reign, Confucians gathered at the White Tiger Hall to discuss texts, resulting in the "White Tiger General Meaning." However, under Empress Deng’s regency, scholarly activity waned. Emperor An neglected arts and literature, leading to the decay of school buildings. Emperor Shun rebuilt the academy, adding 240 rooms and 1,850 houses, and recruited students. By the time of Empress Dowager Liang, the number of students exceeded 30,000, but scholarly rigor declined. After the execution of party members, corruption and textual alterations spread. In the fourth year of Xiping, Emperor Ling ordered the Five Classics to be engraved on stone tablets in multiple scripts. When Dong Zhuo moved the capital, many texts were lost or destroyed, with only seventy carts remaining after transport to Chang'an, half of which were lost. Later, all were burned in the chaos of Chang'an.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
乃令入授皇太子及诸王小侯五十余人。
二十七年，拜骑都尉。
三十年，以老乞骸骨，诏赐洛阳第舍，以千石禄终其身。
中元二年卒。
子轶，字君文，传昆业，门徒亦盛。
永平中，为太子中庶子。
建初中，稍迁宗正，卒官，遂世掌宗正焉。
洼丹字子玉，南阳育阳人也。
世传《孟氏易》。
作《易通论》七篇，世号《洼君通》。丹学义研深，《易》家宗之，称为大儒。
十七年，卒于官，年七十。
时，中山觟阳鸿，字孟孙，亦以《孟氏易》教授，有名称，永平中为少府。
任安字定祖，广汉绵竹人也。
少游太学，受《孟氏易》，兼通数经。
又从同郡杨厚学图谶，究极其术。
时人称曰： 欲知仲桓问任安。
又曰： 居今行古任定祖。
学终，还家教授，诸生自远而至。
初仕州郡。
translation: 
He was ordered to teach the crown prince and more than 50 princes and princes.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of Captain of Cavalry.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he requested to return home because of his old age, and was granted a residence in Luoyang, with a salary of a thousand stones for life.
He died in the second year of Zhongyuan.
His son Liu Yi, also named Junwen, inherited the career of Professor Liu Kun and had many students.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the concubine among the princes.
He built junior high school and was promoted to Zongzheng. He died in office and took charge of Zongzheng for the rest of his life.
◆The biography of Wa Dan, whose courtesy name is Ziyu, was born in Yuyang, Nanyang.
"Mencius Yi" has been passed down from generation to generation.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he often retreated from the world to teach his students, determined not to be an official, and had as many as several hundred students. In the early years of Jianwu, he was slightly promoted and became a doctor. In the eleventh year of Jianwu, he was promoted to Dahonglu. He wrote seven chapters of "Yi Tong Lun". Wa Dan had profound knowledge, and the Book of Changes respected him and called him a great Confucian.
He died in office for seventeen years at the age of seventy.
At this time, Zhongshan Jiao Guiyanghong, whose courtesy name was Meng Sun, also taught students "Meng's Book of Changes" and became famous. He was the Shaofu in Yongpingzhong.
◆The biography of Ren An, named Dingzu, was from Mianzhu, Guanghan.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue, studied "Mencius' Book of Changes", and mastered several classics.
He also studied the Hetu Talisman Book with Yang Hou, a native of the same county, and studied its techniques in depth.
At that time, people said that he said: I want to know Zhonghuan and ask Ren An.
He also said: He lives in the present and travels in the past, appointing his ancestors.
After finishing his studies, he went home to teach his disciples, all of whom came from far away places.
Started to serve as an official in the state and county.

summary:
summary line 1: The text records notable scholars. Liu Kun, a descendant of King Xiao of Liang, studied rituals and taught over 500 disciples during Wang Mang’s time. He performed ceremonies with great care, but Wang Mang arrested him for private gatherings. After Wang Mang’s failure, Liu Kun was spared. He later served as a county magistrate, where his prayers stopped fires and his benevolent governance caused tigers to leave. Emperor Guangwu appointed him as a tutor for the crown prince. Wa Dan, from Nanyang, taught the "Mencius Yi" and refused office under Wang Mang. He became a doctor under Guangwu and wrote seven chapters of "Yi Tong Lun." Ren An, from Guanghan, studied the "Mencius Yi" and mastered several classics, but refused official appointments due to illness. Yang Zheng, from Jingzhao, studied "Liang Shiyi" and was known for his eloquent explanations. He once pleaded for Fan Sheng’s release by appearing before the emperor, enduring wounds. He was known for his boldness and friendship with powerful figures. Zhang Xing, from Yingchuan, taught "Liangqiu Yi" and had nearly ten thousand disciples. Dai Ping, from Runan, studied "Jing's Book of Changes" and debated with scholars, earning a reputation for his expertise. He served as a minister and was known for his outspokenness. Sun Qi, from Jiyin, studied "Jingshi Yi" and "Guwen Shangshu," supporting his mother by raising pigs. His virtue inspired others, and even Yellow Turban bandits spared his home.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
平原礼震，年十七，闻狱当断，驰之京师，行到河内获嘉县，自系，上书求代歙死。
曰： 伏见臣师大司徒欧阳歙，学为儒宗，八世博士，而以臧咎当伏重辜。
歙门单子幼，未能传学，身死之后，永为废绝，上令陛下获杀贤之讥，下使学者丧师资之益。
乞杀臣身以代歙命。
书奏，而歙已死狱中。
歙掾陈元上书追讼之，言甚切至，帝乃赐棺木，赠印绶，赙缣三千匹。
子复嗣。
复卒，无子，国除。
济阴曹曾字伯山，从歙受《尚书》，门徒三千人，位至谏议大夫。
子祉，河南尹，传父业教授。
又陈留陈弇，字叔明，亦受《欧阳尚书》于司徒丁鸿，仕为蕲长。
牟长字君高，乐安临济人也。
其先封牟，春秋之末，国灭，因氏焉。
长少习《欧阳尚书》，不仕王莽世。
translation: 
Pingyuan Lizhen, seventeen years old, heard about the prison sentence and rode from the capital to Huojia County, Hanoi. He tied himself up and wrote a letter asking to die on behalf of Ouyang She.
Said: My teacher, the Great Situ Ouyang She, is profound in knowledge and respected by Confucian scholars. He is a doctor of the eighth generation and should be punished with a serious crime for embezzlement.
Ouyang She's family was weak, and his son was still young and could not teach him. After his death, he was forever deposed. In this way, the emperor had a reputation for killing virtuous people; below, the students lost a good teacher.
Please kill me instead of Ouyang She.
According to the report, Ouyang She was already dead in prison.
Chen Yuan, the official of Ouyang Sheyun, wrote a letter to pursue the case, and his words were sincere. The emperor then gave him a coffin, a seal and a ribbon, and three thousand funeral strings.
His son Ouyang Fu inherited the title.
Ouyang Fu died without a son, and the country was destroyed.
Cao Zeng of Jiyin, also known as Boshan, studied Shangshu with Ouyang She. He had three thousand disciples, and he reached the position of admonishing the officials.
His son Cao Zhi, from Yin, Henan, passed on his father's studies and taught his children.
Chen Liuchen, whose courtesy name was Shuming, was also appointed as the chief of Qi by Situ Dinghong according to Ouyang Shangshu.
◆Mou Changzhuan, Mou Changzi Jungao, a native of Linji, Le'an.
His ancestors were granted the title of Mou. At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the country was destroyed, so they took Mou as their surname.
Mou Chang studied "Ouyang Shangshu" when he was young, but he did not become an official when Wang Mang was there.

summary:
summary line 2: The text also covers scholars of the "Shangshu." Ouyang She, from Le'an, inherited the family tradition of teaching "Fu Sheng Shangshu" and served as a governor. He was imprisoned for corruption, but his student Lizhen pleaded to die in his place. Mou Chang, from Le'an, taught "Ouyang Shangshu" to over a thousand students and wrote "Mou Shi Zhang Ju." Song Deng, from Chang'an, taught "Ouyang Shangshu" and served as a prefect, known for his honest governance. Zhang Xun, from Jiyin, taught "Da Xia Hou Shangshu" and served as a minister. Yin Min, from Nanyang, studied various classics and corrected prophecies, but fell out of favor with the emperor. Zhou Fang, from Runan, studied "Guwen Shangshu" and wrote "Shangshu Miscellaneous Notes." Kong Xi, from Lu, inherited the tradition of "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi." He was accused of slandering Emperor Wu but defended himself in a letter, and the emperor appointed him as Lantai Order. Yang Lun, from Chenliu, studied "Guwen Shangshu" and taught over a thousand disciples. He criticized corruption and was dismissed but later pardoned. He refused further appointments and died at home.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
既归，闭门讲授，自绝人事。
公车复征，逊遁不行，卒于家。
中兴，北海牟融习《大夏侯尚书》，东海王良习《小夏侯尚书》，沛国桓荣习《欧阳尚书》。
荣世习相传授，东京最盛。
扶风杜林传《古文尚书》，林同郡贾逵为之作训，马融作传，郑玄注解，由是《古文尚书》遂显于世。
translation: 
After returning home, he lectured behind closed doors and did not interact with others.
The bus was called again, and he escaped and died at home.
Guangwu Zhongxing, Beihai Mou Rong studied "Da Xia Hou Shangshu", Donghai Wang Liang studied "Xiao Xia Hou Shangshu", and Pei Guo Huan Rong studied "Ouyang Shangshu".
Huan Rong studied and taught for generations, and Tokyo said he was the most prosperous.
Fufeng Du Lin passed the "Gu Wen Shangshu", Jia Kui, a native of the same county as Du Lin, did textual research on him, Ma Rong wrote the biography, and Zheng Xuan made the annotations. Therefore, the "Gu Wen Shangshu" has become the most important in the world.

summary:
summary line 3: The text concludes by noting that during Guangwu’s reign, scholars like Mou Rong, Wang Liang, and Huan Rong taught various versions of the "Shangshu." Huan Rong’s teachings flourished in Tokyo, while Du Lin’s "Gu Wen Shangshu" became prominent through the works of Jia Kui, Ma Rong, and Zheng Xuan.

