Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 7, 14, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
苏秦者，东周雒阳人也。东事师於齐，而习之於鬼谷先生。
出游数岁，大困而归。
兄弟嫂妹妻妾窃皆笑之，曰： 周人之俗，治产业，力工商，逐什二以为务。
今子释本而事口舌，困，不亦宜乎！
苏秦闻之而惭，自伤，乃闭室不出，出其书遍观之。
曰： 夫士业已屈首受书，而不能以取尊荣，虽多亦奚以为！
於是得周书阴符，伏而读之。
期年，以出揣摩，曰： 此可以说当世之君矣。
求说周显王。
显王左右素习知苏秦，皆少之。弗信。
乃西至秦。
秦孝公卒。
说惠王曰： 秦四塞之国，被山带渭，东有关河，西有汉中，南有巴蜀，北有代马，此天府也。
以秦士民之众，兵法之教，可以吞天下，称帝而治。
秦王曰： 毛羽未成，不可以高蜚；文理未明，不可以并兼。
方诛商鞅，疾辩士，弗用。
乃东之赵。
赵肃侯令其弟成为相，号奉阳君。
奉阳君弗说之。
去游燕，岁馀而後得见。
说燕文侯曰： 燕东有朝鲜、辽东，北有林胡、楼烦，西有云中、九原，南有嘑沱、易水，地方二千馀里，带甲数十万，车六百乘，骑六千匹，粟支数年。
南有碣石、雁门之饶，北有枣栗之利，民虽不佃作而足於枣栗矣。
此所谓天府者也。
夫安乐无事，不见覆军杀将，无过燕者。
大王知其所以然乎？
夫燕之所以不犯寇被甲兵者，以赵之为蔽其南也。
translation: 
Su Qin was a native of Luoyang in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. He went east to Qi State to study under Mr. Guiguzi.
After traveling for many years, he was impoverished and returned home in embarrassment.
Brothers and sisters-in-law, younger brothers and sisters, wives and concubines all laughed at him privately, saying: "It is the custom of the Zhou people that people manage their industries, work hard in industry and commerce, and pursue the two-tenths of profits as their career."
Now you have abandoned your profession and gone to talk, and you are in poverty, isn't that right?
After hearing these words, Su Qin felt secretly ashamed and sad, so he stayed behind closed doors and read all his books.
Said: Since a scholar has been taught by a teacher and immersed himself in reading, but he cannot obtain status and glory through it, no matter how much he reads, what is the use?
So I found a book called "Yin Fu" and sat down at my desk to study it.
After working hard for a whole year, he searched for the truth and found a way to get along with the king. He said excitedly: With these alone, I can persuade the king of today.
He asked to see and lobby King Xian of Zhou.
However, the ministers around King Xian always knew Su Qin's character and looked down upon him. Therefore, King Xian of Zhou did not trust him either.
So he went west to the state of Qin.
Duke Xiao of Qin is dead.
He persuaded King Hui and said: Qin is a country surrounded by dangerous mountains. The Wei River flows like a belt, with Hangu Pass and the Yellow River in the east, Hanzhong in the west, Bashu in the south, Daima and Mayi in the north. This is really a dangerous, fertile and abundant natural treasury.
With its numerous people and well-trained soldiers, the Qin State was able to annex the world, establish an empire, and rule all directions.
King Hui of Qin said: It is impossible for a bird to fly in the sky before its feathers are full; the country's political and religious affairs are not on the right track, and it is impossible to annex the world.
At this time, the state of Qin had just executed Shang Yang and hated the lobbyists very much, so it did not appoint Su Qin.
So, he went east to the state of Zhao.
Zhao Suhou appointed his younger brother Zhao Cheng as the prime minister of the country, with the title Fengyang Jun.
Lord Fengyang doesn't like Su Qin.
Su Qin left Zhao State again and traveled to Yan State. It took more than a year before he had the opportunity to meet Yan Wenhou.
He advised Marquis Wen of Yan: The country of Yan is bounded by Korea and Liaodong to the east, Linhu and Loufan to the north, Yunzhong and Jiuyuan to the west, and Tuohe and Yishui to the south. The country stretches for more than two thousand miles, has hundreds of thousands of soldiers, 600 chariots, and 6,000 horses, and has enough food stored for several years.
In the south, the land in Jieshi Mountain and Yanmen Mountain is fertile and rich in products; in the north, you can grow red dates and chestnuts to gain income. Even if the people do not farm, the income from red dates and chestnuts alone can ensure that they live a prosperous life.
This is the so-called natural treasury.
The people can live and work in peace and contentment, there is no war, and they will not face the danger of the army being destroyed and the generals and soldiers being killed. No one can compare with the Yan State in this regard.
Does your Majesty know the reason for this?
The reason why Yan State was not invaded by enemies was that Zhao State was Yan State's barrier in the south.

summary:
summary line 0: Su Qin, a native of Luoyang in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, studied under Mr. Guiguzi in Qi State. After years of travel left him impoverished, he returned home in embarrassment, where his family mocked him for abandoning practical trades to pursue rhetoric. Ashamed, he secluded himself to study, discovering the "Yin Fu" text. After a year of intense effort, he sought to persuade rulers. He first approached King Xian of Zhou, but was dismissed due to the ministers' disdain. He then went west to Qin, where King Hui declined his advice, citing the state's recent execution of Shang Yang and distrust of lobbyists.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
秦赵五战，秦再胜而赵三胜。
秦赵相毙，而王以全燕制其後，此燕之所以不犯寇也。
且夫秦之攻燕也，逾云中、九原，过代、上谷，弥地数千里，虽得燕城，秦计固不能守也。
秦之不能害燕亦明矣。
今赵之攻燕也，发号出令，不至十日而数十万之军军於东垣矣。渡呼沱，涉易水，不至四五日而距国都矣。
故曰秦之攻燕也，战於千里之外；赵之攻燕也，战於百里之内。
夫不忧百里之患而重千里之外，计无过於此者。
是故原大王与赵从亲，天下为一，则燕国必无患矣。
文侯曰： 子言则可，然吾国小，西迫强赵，南近齐，齐、赵强国也。
子必欲合从以安燕，寡人请以国从。
於是资苏秦车马金帛以至赵。
而奉阳君已死，即因说赵肃侯曰： 天下卿相人臣及布衣之士，皆高贤君之行义，皆原奉教陈忠於前之日久矣。
虽然，奉阳君妒而君不任事，是以宾客游士莫敢自尽於前者。
今奉阳君捐馆舍，君乃今复与士民相亲也，臣故敢进其愚虑。
窃为君计者，莫若安民无事，且无庸有事於民也。
安民之本，在於择交，择交而得则民安，择交而不得则民终身不安。
请言外患：齐秦为两敌而民不得安，倚秦攻齐而民不得安，倚齐攻秦而民不得安。
故夫谋人之主，伐人之国，常苦出辞断绝人之交也。原君慎勿出於口。
请别白黑所以异，阴阳而已矣。
translation: 
Qin and Zhao launched five wars, Qin won twice and Zhao won three times.
The two countries are killing each other and destroying each other, but the king can rely on the intact power of the Yan State to control them from behind. This is the reason why the Yan State is not invaded by enemy countries.
Moreover, if Qin wanted to attack Yan, it would have to travel through Yunzhong and Jiuyuan, pass through Daijun and Shanggu, and travel thousands of miles. Even if it could capture Yan's city, Qin would consider that it had no way to defend it.
It is already very obvious that Qin cannot invade Yan.
Now that the State of Zhao wants to attack the State of Yan, as long as it issues an order, it will not take ten days for hundreds of thousands of troops to be stationed in the Donghuan area on the border. The Zhao army will then cross the Tuo River and ford the Yishui River. It will not take more than four or five days to reach the capital of the State of Yan.
Therefore, when Qin attacked Yan, it had to fight thousands of miles away; when Zhao attacked Yan, it only fought within a hundred miles.
There is no more wrong strategy than not worrying about disasters within a hundred miles, but focusing on enemies thousands of miles away.
Therefore, I hope that your Majesty can unite with the State of Zhao and unite all countries into one, so that there will be no trouble for the State of Yan.
Marquis Yan Wen said: Of course you are right, but my country is weak, close to the powerful Zhao State in the west, and close to Qi and Zhou in the south. Qi and Zhao are both powerful countries.
You must use the method of marriage and marriage to make the Yan country safe and sound. I am willing to surrender the country to you.
So he funded Su Qin's carriage, horses and money to travel to Zhao.
Lord Fengyang was dead, so he took the opportunity to lobby Zhao Suhou: "Every minister in the world, right down to the scholars in rough clothes, all admire you as a wise king for your benevolence and righteousness, and they all hope to listen to your teachings and give your loyal advice in front of you. It has been a long time."
Even so, Lord Fengyang is jealous of talents and you ignore political affairs, so no guests or lobbyists dare to speak freely in front of you.
Now that Lord Fengyang has passed away, you can get close to the scholars and the people again, so I dare to state my humble opinion to you.
I think for you privately, there is nothing more important than the peace of the people's lives, the peace of the country, and the absence of the need for the people to be involved in wars.
The foundation for the stability of the people lies in the choice of diplomatic relations. If the diplomatic relations are properly chosen, the people will be stable; if the diplomatic relations are not chosen appropriately, the people will be unstable for life.
Please allow me to analyze Zhao's foreign aggression: If Zhao is enemies with Qi and Qin, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qin to attack Qi, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qi to attack Qin, the people will still have no peace.
Therefore, if you want to plot against the kings of other countries and attack other countries, you often have to publicly declare to sever diplomatic relations with other countries. I hope you will be careful and don't say this easily.
Please let me analyze for you the pros and cons of this extremely clear black and white, yin and yang.

summary:
summary line 1: Su Qin next traveled to Zhao, but Lord Fengyang disliked him, so he proceeded to Yan. After over a year, he met Marquis Wen of Yan, arguing that Yan's safety depended on Zhao as a southern barrier. He noted that Qin would struggle to attack Yan from afar, while Zhao could strike within days. He urged an alliance with Zhao to secure Yan. Marquis Wen agreed, funding Su Qin's mission to Zhao. There, Lord Fengyang had died, so Su Qin lobbied Zhao Suhou, emphasizing the importance of diplomatic choices for stability. He proposed a united front of six states against Qin, detailing how each state would support the others if attacked. King Zhao accepted, providing resources for Su Qin to persuade other states.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻尧无三夫之分，舜无咫尺之地，以有天下；禹无百人之聚，以王诸侯；汤武之士不过三千，车不过三百乘，卒不过三万，立为天子：诚得其道也。
是故明主外料其敌之彊弱，内度其士卒贤不肖，不待两军相当而胜败存亡之机固已形於胸中矣，岂揜於众人之言而以冥冥决事哉！
臣窃以天下之地图案之，诸侯之地五倍於秦，料度诸侯之卒十倍於秦，六国为一，并力西乡而攻秦，秦必破矣。
今西面而事之，见臣於秦。
夫破人之与破於人也，臣人之与臣於人也，岂可同日而论哉！
夫衡人者，皆欲割诸侯之地以予秦。
秦成，则高台榭，美宫室，听竽瑟之音，前有楼阙轩辕，後有长姣美人，国被秦患而不与其忧。
是故夫衡人日夜务以秦权恐愒诸侯以求割地，故原大王孰计之也。
臣闻明主绝疑去谗，屏流言之迹，塞朋党之门，故尊主广地彊兵之计臣得陈忠於前矣。
故窃为大王计，莫如一韩、魏、齐、楚、燕、赵以从亲，以畔秦。
令天下之将相会於洹水之上，通质，刳白马而盟。要约曰： 秦攻楚，齐、魏各出锐师以佐之，韩绝其粮道，赵涉河漳，燕守常山之北。
秦攻韩魏，则楚绝其後，齐出锐师而佐之，赵涉河漳，燕守云中。
秦攻齐，则楚绝其後，韩守城皋，魏塞其道，赵涉河漳、博关，燕出锐师以佐之。
秦攻燕，则赵守常山，楚军武关，齐涉勃海，韩、魏皆出锐师以佐之。
秦攻赵，则韩军宜阳，楚军武关，魏军河外，齐涉清河，燕出锐师以佐之。
诸侯有不如约者，以五国之兵共伐之。
六国从亲以宾秦，则秦甲必不敢出於函谷以害山东矣。
如此，则霸王之业成矣。
赵王曰： 寡人年少，立国日浅，未尝得闻社稷之长计也。
今上客有意存天下，安诸侯寡人敬以国从。
乃饰车百乘，黄金千溢，白璧百双，锦绣千纯，以约诸侯。
是时周天子致文武之胙於秦惠王。
惠王使犀首攻魏，禽将龙贾，取魏之雕阴，且欲东兵。
苏秦恐秦兵之至赵也，乃激怒张仪，入之于秦。
於是说韩宣王曰： 韩北有巩、成皋之固，西有宜阳、商阪之塞，东有宛、穰、洧水，南有陉山，地方九百馀里，带甲数十万，天下之彊弓劲弩皆从韩出。
translation: 
I heard that Tang Yao was not given a reward of 300 acres, and Yu Shun was not given a foot of fiefdom, but he could own the whole world; Yu and Xia could become king among the princes with less than a hundred people; Shang Tang and Zhou Wu had less than 3,000 ministers, less than 300 chariots, and less than 30,000 soldiers, but they could become the emperor: they have indeed mastered the strategy of conquering the world.
Therefore, a wise monarch should be able to predict the strength of the enemy's country externally, and estimate the quality of his soldiers internally. In this way, the key to victory, defeat, and survival will already be clear to him without waiting for the armies of both sides to come into contact. How could one be blinded by everyone's opinions and make decisions on national affairs in a confused manner?
I have privately examined the map of the world. The land of each vassal state is five times that of Qin. It is estimated that the soldiers of each vassal state are ten times that of Qin. If the six countries form a whole and work together to attack Qin westward, Qin will definitely be defeated.
Now, instead, he serves Qin in the west and becomes a minister of Qin.
Defeating others and being defeated by others, asking others to surrender to oneself and oneself to surrendering to others, are they the same thing?
Anyone who advocates the policy of continuous balance wants to cede the land of various vassal states to Qin.
When Qin's hegemony is successful, they can build tall pavilions and pavilions, build magnificent palaces, and enjoy the music played by the lute. There are balconies and palaces in front, and spacious and gorgeous cars; behind there are graceful and beautiful beauties. As for the harm done by Qin to other countries, they will not share their worries.
Therefore, those who advocate Lianheng rely on the power of Qin to threaten the princes and countries day and night and seek to cede land. Therefore, I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
I heard that a wise monarch resolves doubts, rejects slander, abandons the channels of gossip, and blocks the channels of partying and selfish pursuits. That is why I have the opportunity to state before you the strategy to honor the monarch, expand the territory, and strengthen the army.
Privately, I think for your Majesty, it is better to make Han, Wei, Qi, Chu, Yan, and Zhao form a coherent whole to fight against Qin.
Let the generals of the world gather on the Huan River, communicate with each other about their old grudges, kill the white horse and swear a blood oath, and agree with each other: If Qin attacks Chu, then Qi and Wei will send elite troops to help Chu, South Korea will cut off Qin's main grain transportation route, Zhao's army will cross the river to the south to support, and Yan's army will stick to the north of Changshan.
If Qin attacks South Korea and Wei, then the Chu army will cut off Qin's support, and Qi will send elite troops to help Han and Wei. Zhao Jun crossed the river and Zhang to support, while Yan Guo held on to the Yunzhong area.
If Qin attacks Qi, Chu will cut off Qin's support, South Korea will defend Chenggao, Wei will block Qin's main roads, Zhao's army will cross the river and Zhang to advance to Boguan for support, and Yan will send elite troops to coordinate operations.
If the Qin State attacks the Yan State, then the Zhao State will stick to Changshan, the Chu State troops will be stationed in Wuguan, the Qi Army will cross the Bohai Sea, and Han and Wei will send elite troops to coordinate the battle.
If Qin attacks Zhao, South Korea's troops will be stationed in Yiyang, Chu's troops will be stationed in Wuguan, Wei's troops will be stationed outside the river, Qi's troops will cross the Qinghe River, and Yan's elite troops will be sent to coordinate operations.
If some princes do not act in accordance with the covenant, the armies of the other five countries will be used to attack him.
If the six kingdoms were united to resist Qin, then Qin would not dare to send troops from Hanguguan to invade the six kingdoms of Shandong.
In this way, your overlord's cause is successful.
King Zhao said: I am still young and have only been in charge of the country for a short time. I have never heard of strategies for long-term peace and stability in the country.
Now that you intend to ensure the survival of the world and the stability of the various vassal states, I am willing to sincerely surrender to you.
So he decorated a hundred carriages, loaded with a thousand pieces of gold, a hundred pairs of white jade stones, and a thousand bolts of silk and satin, to persuade the vassal states to join.
At this time, the Emperor of Zhou gave King Hui of Qin the meat used in sacrifices to King Wen and King Wu.
King Hui sent rhinoceros heads to attack Wei, captured Wei general Long Jia alive, captured Wei's Diaoyin, and planned to march eastward.
Su Qin was afraid that Qin's troops would attack Zhao, so he used a trick to anger Zhang Yi and force him to defect to Qin.
So Su Qin went to persuade King Xuan of Han and said: Korea has strong Gongyi and Chenggao in the north, the fortresses of Yiyang and Shangban in the west, Wan, Rang, and Mishui in the east, and Xingshan in the south. The area is more than 900 miles in length and breadth, and there are hundreds of thousands of armed forces. All the strong bows and crossbows in the world are made from Korea.

summary:
summary line 2: Su Qin then approached King Xuan of Han, highlighting Korea's military strength and warning that serving Qin would lead to endless land demands. King Han angrily refused to serve Qin. He similarly persuaded King Wei of Wei, stressing Wei's power and the folly of ceding land to Qin. King Wei agreed to follow Su Qin's plan. In Qi, he advised King Xuan that Qin could not easily attack Qi due to geographical barriers, and that serving Qin was a strategic error. King Qi consented. Finally, he lobbied King Wei of Chu, arguing that Chu and Qin could not coexist and that alliance would bring glory. King Wei, fearing Qin's ambition, entrusted his state to Su Qin.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
寡人卧不安席，食不甘味，心摇摇然如县旌而无所终薄。
今主君欲一天下，收诸侯，存危国，寡人谨奉社稷以从。
於是六国从合而并力焉。
苏秦为从约长，并相六国。
北报赵王，乃行过雒阳，车骑辎重，诸侯各发使送之甚众，疑於王者。
周显王闻之恐惧，除道，使人郊劳。
苏秦之昆弟妻嫂侧目不敢仰视，俯伏侍取食。
苏秦笑谓其嫂曰： 何前倨而後恭也？
嫂委石蒲蒲服，以面掩地而谢曰： 见季子位高金多也。
苏秦喟然叹曰： 此一人之身，富贵则亲戚畏惧之，贫贱则轻易之，况众人乎！
且使我有雒阳负郭田二顷，吾岂能佩六国相印乎！
於是散千金以赐宗族朋友。
初，苏秦之燕，贷人百钱为资，乃得富贵，以百金偿之。
遍报诸所尝见德者。
其从者有一人独未得报，乃前自言。
苏秦曰： 我非忘子。子之与我至燕，再三欲去我易水之上，方是时，我困，故望子深，是以苏秦既约六国从亲，归赵，赵肃侯封为武安君，乃投从约书於秦。
秦兵不敢闚函谷关十五年。
其後秦使犀首欺齐、魏，与共伐赵，欲败从约。
齐、魏伐赵，赵王让苏秦。
苏秦恐，请使燕，必报齐。
苏秦去赵而从约皆解。
秦惠王以其女为燕太子妇。
是岁，文侯卒，太子立，是为燕易王。
易王初立，齐宣王因燕丧伐燕，取十城。
translation: 
I couldn't sleep well while lying on the bed, and I couldn't feel the sweetness when I ate. My mind was in a trance, like a flag hanging in the sky with no where to go.
Now that you intend to unify the world, unite the princes, and preserve the country in danger, I am willing to respectfully entrust the entire country to you and obey your arrangements.
As a result, the six countries united successfully and worked together.
Su Qin became the leader of the United Vertical Alliance and concurrently served as the Prime Minister of the Six Nations.
Su Qin went north to return his order to King Zhao. On the way, he passed Luoyang. The accompanying vehicles and horses were fully loaded with luggage. There were many envoys sent by the princes to see him off, and they were as grand as the emperor.
King Xian of Zhou Dynasty was frightened when he heard the news. He quickly found someone to clear the road for him and sent envoys to the suburbs to greet him.
Su Qin's brothers, wife, and sister-in-law squinted and did not dare to look up at him. They all fell down on the ground and served him with great respect.
Su Qin smiled and said to his sister-in-law: Why were you so arrogant to me before, but now you are so deferential to me?
His sister-in-law quickly fell to the ground, bent her body, and crawled in front of him. She put her face to the ground and apologized, saying: "Because I saw that uncle, you have a high status and a lot of money."
Su Qin sighed with emotion and said: I am the same person. When I am rich, my relatives will respect me, but when I am poor, they will despise me. Not to mention ordinary people!
If I had two hectares of fertile farmland in the suburbs of Luoyang back then, would I still be able to wear the seals of six countries now?
At that time, he distributed thousands of gold coins and gave them to relatives and friends.
When Su Qin went to the State of Yan, he borrowed one hundred gold from someone for travel expenses. Now that he was rich, he borrowed one hundred gold to repay that person.
And he repaid all those who had been kind to him in the past.
Among his entourage, there was only one person who did not receive the reward, so he went forward to plead his case.
Su Qin said: "I have not forgotten you. When you came to Yan State with me, you tried to leave me again and again by the Yishui River. At that time, I was in dire straits, so I deeply blamed you, so I put you last. Now you can also get the reward." After Su Qin agreed on the alliance of the six countries, he returned to the State of Zhao. Marquis Su of Zhao named him Lord Wu'an, so Su Qin sent the alliance to Qin.
From then on, Qin State did not dare to spy on countries outside Hangu Pass for fifteen years.
Later, Qin State sent envoy Xishou to deceive Qi State and Wei State, and joined forces with them to attack Zhao State, intending to destroy the alliance.
Qi and Wei attacked Zhao, and the king of Zhao blamed Su Qin.
Su Qin was afraid and asked to send an envoy to Yan State to take revenge on Qi State.
After Su Qin left Zhao, the alliance collapsed.
King Hui of Qin married his daughter to the prince of Yan as his wife.
In this year, Marquis Wen of Yan died and the prince ascended the throne. This was King Yi of Yan.
King Yi had just ascended the throne, and King Xuan of Qi took advantage of Yan's mourning to attack Yan and captured ten cities in a row.

summary:
summary line 3: The six states united, with Su Qin as their leader and prime minister. On his return to Luoyang, his family, once scornful, now bowed in awe. He distributed wealth to relatives and repaid debts. The alliance kept Qin from invading for fifteen years. However, Qin later deceived Qi and Wei into attacking Zhao, breaking the pact. Su Qin fled to Yan, where King Yi sought his help to recover ten cities lost to Qi. Su Qin persuaded King Qi to return them by warning of Qin's enmity. Despite slander, Su Qin regained King Yan's trust, though he had an affair with the king's mother. Fearing death, he feigned offense and fled to Qi, where he served as a guest minister. He secretly plotted to weaken Qi for Yan, advising King Min to waste resources on grand projects. Eventually, rivals assassinated him. Before dying, he told King Qi to display his body publicly, promising the assassin would be caught. The ruse worked, and the assassin was executed.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
已得安邑，塞女戟，因以破宋为齐罪。
秦欲攻韩，恐天下救之，则以齐委於天下。曰： 齐王四与寡人约，四欺寡人，必率天下以攻寡人者三。
有齐无秦，有秦无齐，必伐之，必亡之。
已得宜阳、少曲，致蔺、石，因以破齐为天下罪。 秦欲攻魏重楚，则以南阳委於楚。
曰： 寡人固与韩且绝矣。
残均陵，塞鄳戹，苟利於楚，寡人如自有之。
魏弃与国而合於秦，因以塞鄳戹为楚罪。
兵困於林中，重燕、赵，以胶东委於燕，以济西委於赵。
已得讲於魏，至公子延，因犀首属行而攻赵。
兵伤於谯石，而遇败於阳马，而重魏，则以叶、蔡委於魏。
已得讲於赵，则劫魏，不为割。
困则使太后弟穰侯为和，嬴则兼欺舅与母。
適燕者曰 以胶东 ，適赵者曰 以济西 ，適魏者曰 以叶、蔡 ，適楚者曰 以塞鄳戹 ，適齐者曰 以宋 ，此必令言如循环，用兵如刺蜚，母不能制，舅不能约。 龙贾之战，岸门之战，封陵之战，高商之战，赵庄之战，秦之所杀三晋之民数百万，今其生者皆死秦之孤也。西河之外，上雒之地，三川晋国之祸，三晋之半，秦祸如此其大也。
而燕、赵之秦者，皆以争事秦说其主，此臣之所大患也。
燕昭王不行。苏代复重於燕。
燕使约诸侯从亲如苏秦时，或从或不，而天下由此宗苏氏之从约。
代、厉皆以寿死，名显诸侯。
太史公曰：苏秦兄弟三人，皆游说诸侯以显名，其术长於权变。
而苏秦被反间以死，天下共笑之，讳学其术。
然世言苏秦多异，异时事有类之者皆附之苏秦。
夫苏秦起闾阎，连六国从亲，此其智有过人者。吾故列其行事，次其时序，毋令独蒙恶声焉。
translation: 
Later, the Qin State captured Anyi of the Wei State and besieged Nuji. Instead, it regarded the defeat of the Song State as Qi's crime.
Qin planned to attack South Korea and was worried that the princes of the world would rescue it, so it promised Qi to the princes of the world to attack it, saying: The king of Qi made an alliance with me four times, deceived me four times, and resolutely led the army of the world to attack our country, many times.
As long as Qi exists, there will be no Qin. As long as Qin exists, there will be no Qi. It must be conquered and destroyed.
When the Qin State captured Yiyang and Shaoqu in South Korea and conquered Linyi and Lishi, it regarded defeating the Qi State as a sin among the vassal states in the world. Qin planned to attack Wei, so he first respected Chu and promised Nanyang to Chu.
Said: I had already severed ties with South Korea.
If it is beneficial to the state of Chu to destroy Junling and besiege it, then I will be as happy as if I had it.
When the state of Wei abandoned the alliance and joined forces with the state of Qin, the state of Qin charged Chu with siege.
Qin's army was trapped in the forest, so he respected Yan and Zhao, and promised Jiaodong to Yan and Jixi to Zhao.
When Qin and Wei reconciled, they took Gongzi Yan as a hostage and used rhinoceros troops to attack Zhao one after another.
Qin's army suffered heavy losses at Qiaoshi and was defeated at Yangma, so he respected Wei and granted the land of Ye and Cai to Wei.
After he reconciled with Zhao, he threatened Wei and refused to divide the land as agreed.
When the Qin army was in trouble, they sent the Queen Mother's brother Ranghou to make peace. When he won, even his uncle and mother were deceived.
Outside Xihe, the Shangluo area and Sanchuan area are often attacked by the Qin State. This is a disaster for the Jin State!
The Qin State invaded half of the land of Han, Zhao, and Wei. The disasters caused by the Qin State were so serious! However, people from Yan, Zhao and other countries who went to Qin to persuade their kings tried to persuade their own monarchs by serving Qin. This is something that worries me very much.
King Yan Zhao did not go to Qin, and Su Dai was reused by King Yan again.
The King of Yan sent Su Dai to contact the various countries to unite and establish a blind date. Just like when Su Qin was alive, some princes joined the alliance and some did not. People from all over the world respected the alliance advocated by Su Qin from then on.
Both Su Dai and Su Li lived to a very old age, and their reputations became prominent in various vassal states.
Tai Shigong said: The three brothers Su and Qin are famous all over the world for lobbying the princes. Their theories are good at maneuvering and maneuvering.
However, Su Qin was killed on the charge of counter-intentional conspiracy. Everyone in the world laughed at him and tabooed the study of his teachings.
However, there are many differences in the deeds of Su Qin circulated in society. All deeds similar to Su Qin in different periods are attached to Su Qin.
Su Qin was born among the common people, but he was able to unite six countries and have a blind date. This shows that his intelligence is beyond ordinary people. Therefore, I will list his experiences and state them in the correct chronological order, so as not to let him only suffer a bad reputation.

summary:
summary line 4: Su Qin's brothers, Su Dai and Su Li, later pursued similar careers. After Su Qin's death, Su Dai served Yan, advising King Yan on strategy against Qi. He noted Qi's exhaustion from wars and suggested using bribes to manipulate Qi into attacking Song, weakening itself. King Yan agreed. Su Li also served Qi, but faced suspicion due to Su Qin's past. The brothers eventually fled to Qi after Yan's internal chaos. Su Dai later returned to Yan, helping King Zhao plan and execute a successful attack on Qi, forcing King Min to flee. Su Dai later advised King Yan against visiting Qin, warning of Qin's violent tactics. King Yan heeded this advice. Both Su Dai and Su Li lived to old age, renowned for their diplomatic skills.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
已得安邑，塞女戟，因以破宋为齐罪。
秦欲攻韩，恐天下救之，则以齐委於天下。曰： 齐王四与寡人约，四欺寡人，必率天下以攻寡人者三。
有齐无秦，有秦无齐，必伐之，必亡之。
已得宜阳、少曲，致蔺、石，因以破齐为天下罪。 秦欲攻魏重楚，则以南阳委於楚。
曰： 寡人固与韩且绝矣。
残均陵，塞鄳戹，苟利於楚，寡人如自有之。
魏弃与国而合於秦，因以塞鄳戹为楚罪。
兵困於林中，重燕、赵，以胶东委於燕，以济西委於赵。
已得讲於魏，至公子延，因犀首属行而攻赵。
兵伤於谯石，而遇败於阳马，而重魏，则以叶、蔡委於魏。
已得讲於赵，则劫魏，不为割。
困则使太后弟穰侯为和，嬴则兼欺舅与母。
適燕者曰 以胶东 ，適赵者曰 以济西 ，適魏者曰 以叶、蔡 ，適楚者曰 以塞鄳戹 ，適齐者曰 以宋 ，此必令言如循环，用兵如刺蜚，母不能制，舅不能约。 龙贾之战，岸门之战，封陵之战，高商之战，赵庄之战，秦之所杀三晋之民数百万，今其生者皆死秦之孤也。西河之外，上雒之地，三川晋国之祸，三晋之半，秦祸如此其大也。
而燕、赵之秦者，皆以争事秦说其主，此臣之所大患也。
燕昭王不行。苏代复重於燕。
燕使约诸侯从亲如苏秦时，或从或不，而天下由此宗苏氏之从约。
代、厉皆以寿死，名显诸侯。
太史公曰：苏秦兄弟三人，皆游说诸侯以显名，其术长於权变。
而苏秦被反间以死，天下共笑之，讳学其术。
然世言苏秦多异，异时事有类之者皆附之苏秦。
夫苏秦起闾阎，连六国从亲，此其智有过人者。吾故列其行事，次其时序，毋令独蒙恶声焉。
translation: 
Later, the Qin State captured Anyi of the Wei State and besieged Nuji. Instead, it regarded the defeat of the Song State as Qi's crime.
Qin planned to attack South Korea and was worried that the princes of the world would rescue it, so it promised Qi to the princes of the world to attack it, saying: The king of Qi made an alliance with me four times, deceived me four times, and resolutely led the army of the world to attack our country, many times.
As long as Qi exists, there will be no Qin. As long as Qin exists, there will be no Qi. It must be conquered and destroyed.
When the Qin State captured Yiyang and Shaoqu in South Korea and conquered Linyi and Lishi, it regarded defeating the Qi State as a sin among the vassal states in the world. Qin planned to attack Wei, so he first respected Chu and promised Nanyang to Chu.
Said: I had already severed ties with South Korea.
If it is beneficial to the state of Chu to destroy Junling and besiege it, then I will be as happy as if I had it.
When the state of Wei abandoned the alliance and joined forces with the state of Qin, the state of Qin charged Chu with siege.
Qin's army was trapped in the forest, so he respected Yan and Zhao, and promised Jiaodong to Yan and Jixi to Zhao.
When Qin and Wei reconciled, they took Gongzi Yan as a hostage and used rhinoceros troops to attack Zhao one after another.
Qin's army suffered heavy losses at Qiaoshi and was defeated at Yangma, so he respected Wei and granted the land of Ye and Cai to Wei.
After he reconciled with Zhao, he threatened Wei and refused to divide the land as agreed.
When the Qin army was in trouble, they sent the Queen Mother's brother Ranghou to make peace. When he won, even his uncle and mother were deceived.
Outside Xihe, the Shangluo area and Sanchuan area are often attacked by the Qin State. This is a disaster for the Jin State!
The Qin State invaded half of the land of Han, Zhao, and Wei. The disasters caused by the Qin State were so serious! However, people from Yan, Zhao and other countries who went to Qin to persuade their kings tried to persuade their own monarchs by serving Qin. This is something that worries me very much.
King Yan Zhao did not go to Qin, and Su Dai was reused by King Yan again.
The King of Yan sent Su Dai to contact the various countries to unite and establish a blind date. Just like when Su Qin was alive, some princes joined the alliance and some did not. People from all over the world respected the alliance advocated by Su Qin from then on.
Both Su Dai and Su Li lived to a very old age, and their reputations became prominent in various vassal states.
Tai Shigong said: The three brothers Su and Qin are famous all over the world for lobbying the princes. Their theories are good at maneuvering and maneuvering.
However, Su Qin was killed on the charge of counter-intentional conspiracy. Everyone in the world laughed at him and tabooed the study of his teachings.
However, there are many differences in the deeds of Su Qin circulated in society. All deeds similar to Su Qin in different periods are attached to Su Qin.
Su Qin was born among the common people, but he was able to unite six countries and have a blind date. This shows that his intelligence is beyond ordinary people. Therefore, I will list his experiences and state them in the correct chronological order, so as not to let him only suffer a bad reputation.

summary:
summary line 5: The historian concludes that the Su brothers were famous for their lobbying, but Su Qin's death from conspiracy led to widespread ridicule. However, his ability to unite six states from humble origins shows extraordinary intelligence. The historian compiled his deeds in correct order to preserve his legacy.

