Chunk 0: 
original: 
苏秦者，东周雒阳人也。东事师於齐，而习之於鬼谷先生。
出游数岁，大困而归。
兄弟嫂妹妻妾窃皆笑之，曰： 周人之俗，治产业，力工商，逐什二以为务。
今子释本而事口舌，困，不亦宜乎！
苏秦闻之而惭，自伤，乃闭室不出，出其书遍观之。
曰： 夫士业已屈首受书，而不能以取尊荣，虽多亦奚以为！
於是得周书阴符，伏而读之。
期年，以出揣摩，曰： 此可以说当世之君矣。
求说周显王。
显王左右素习知苏秦，皆少之。弗信。
乃西至秦。
秦孝公卒。
说惠王曰： 秦四塞之国，被山带渭，东有关河，西有汉中，南有巴蜀，北有代马，此天府也。
以秦士民之众，兵法之教，可以吞天下，称帝而治。
秦王曰： 毛羽未成，不可以高蜚；文理未明，不可以并兼。
方诛商鞅，疾辩士，弗用。
乃东之赵。
赵肃侯令其弟成为相，号奉阳君。
奉阳君弗说之。
去游燕，岁馀而後得见。
说燕文侯曰： 燕东有朝鲜、辽东，北有林胡、楼烦，西有云中、九原，南有嘑沱、易水，地方二千馀里，带甲数十万，车六百乘，骑六千匹，粟支数年。
南有碣石、雁门之饶，北有枣栗之利，民虽不佃作而足於枣栗矣。
此所谓天府者也。
夫安乐无事，不见覆军杀将，无过燕者。
大王知其所以然乎？
夫燕之所以不犯寇被甲兵者，以赵之为蔽其南也。
translation: 
Su Qin was a native of Luoyang in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. He went east to Qi State to study under Mr. Guiguzi.
After traveling for many years, he was impoverished and returned home in embarrassment.
Brothers and sisters-in-law, younger brothers and sisters, wives and concubines all laughed at him privately, saying: "It is the custom of the Zhou people that people manage their industries, work hard in industry and commerce, and pursue the two-tenths of profits as their career."
Now you have abandoned your profession and gone to talk, and you are in poverty, isn't that right?
After hearing these words, Su Qin felt secretly ashamed and sad, so he stayed behind closed doors and read all his books.
Said: Since a scholar has been taught by a teacher and immersed himself in reading, but he cannot obtain status and glory through it, no matter how much he reads, what is the use?
So I found a book called "Yin Fu" and sat down at my desk to study it.
After working hard for a whole year, he searched for the truth and found a way to get along with the king. He said excitedly: With these alone, I can persuade the king of today.
He asked to see and lobby King Xian of Zhou.
However, the ministers around King Xian always knew Su Qin's character and looked down upon him. Therefore, King Xian of Zhou did not trust him either.
So he went west to the state of Qin.
Duke Xiao of Qin is dead.
He persuaded King Hui and said: Qin is a country surrounded by dangerous mountains. The Wei River flows like a belt, with Hangu Pass and the Yellow River in the east, Hanzhong in the west, Bashu in the south, Daima and Mayi in the north. This is really a dangerous, fertile and abundant natural treasury.
With its numerous people and well-trained soldiers, the Qin State was able to annex the world, establish an empire, and rule all directions.
King Hui of Qin said: It is impossible for a bird to fly in the sky before its feathers are full; the country's political and religious affairs are not on the right track, and it is impossible to annex the world.
At this time, the state of Qin had just executed Shang Yang and hated the lobbyists very much, so it did not appoint Su Qin.
So, he went east to the state of Zhao.
Zhao Suhou appointed his younger brother Zhao Cheng as the prime minister of the country, with the title Fengyang Jun.
Lord Fengyang doesn't like Su Qin.
Su Qin left Zhao State again and traveled to Yan State. It took more than a year before he had the opportunity to meet Yan Wenhou.
He advised Marquis Wen of Yan: The country of Yan is bounded by Korea and Liaodong to the east, Linhu and Loufan to the north, Yunzhong and Jiuyuan to the west, and Tuohe and Yishui to the south. The country stretches for more than two thousand miles, has hundreds of thousands of soldiers, 600 chariots, and 6,000 horses, and has enough food stored for several years.
In the south, the land in Jieshi Mountain and Yanmen Mountain is fertile and rich in products; in the north, you can grow red dates and chestnuts to gain income. Even if the people do not farm, the income from red dates and chestnuts alone can ensure that they live a prosperous life.
This is the so-called natural treasury.
The people can live and work in peace and contentment, there is no war, and they will not face the danger of the army being destroyed and the generals and soldiers being killed. No one can compare with the Yan State in this regard.
Does your Majesty know the reason for this?
The reason why Yan State was not invaded by enemies was that Zhao State was Yan State's barrier in the south.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
秦赵五战，秦再胜而赵三胜。
秦赵相毙，而王以全燕制其後，此燕之所以不犯寇也。
且夫秦之攻燕也，逾云中、九原，过代、上谷，弥地数千里，虽得燕城，秦计固不能守也。
秦之不能害燕亦明矣。
今赵之攻燕也，发号出令，不至十日而数十万之军军於东垣矣。渡呼沱，涉易水，不至四五日而距国都矣。
故曰秦之攻燕也，战於千里之外；赵之攻燕也，战於百里之内。
夫不忧百里之患而重千里之外，计无过於此者。
是故原大王与赵从亲，天下为一，则燕国必无患矣。
文侯曰： 子言则可，然吾国小，西迫强赵，南近齐，齐、赵强国也。
子必欲合从以安燕，寡人请以国从。
於是资苏秦车马金帛以至赵。
而奉阳君已死，即因说赵肃侯曰： 天下卿相人臣及布衣之士，皆高贤君之行义，皆原奉教陈忠於前之日久矣。
虽然，奉阳君妒而君不任事，是以宾客游士莫敢自尽於前者。
今奉阳君捐馆舍，君乃今复与士民相亲也，臣故敢进其愚虑。
窃为君计者，莫若安民无事，且无庸有事於民也。
安民之本，在於择交，择交而得则民安，择交而不得则民终身不安。
请言外患：齐秦为两敌而民不得安，倚秦攻齐而民不得安，倚齐攻秦而民不得安。
故夫谋人之主，伐人之国，常苦出辞断绝人之交也。原君慎勿出於口。
请别白黑所以异，阴阳而已矣。
translation: 
Qin and Zhao launched five wars, Qin won twice and Zhao won three times.
The two countries are killing each other and destroying each other, but the king can rely on the intact power of the Yan State to control them from behind. This is the reason why the Yan State is not invaded by enemy countries.
Moreover, if Qin wanted to attack Yan, it would have to travel through Yunzhong and Jiuyuan, pass through Daijun and Shanggu, and travel thousands of miles. Even if it could capture Yan's city, Qin would consider that it had no way to defend it.
It is already very obvious that Qin cannot invade Yan.
Now that the State of Zhao wants to attack the State of Yan, as long as it issues an order, it will not take ten days for hundreds of thousands of troops to be stationed in the Donghuan area on the border. The Zhao army will then cross the Tuo River and ford the Yishui River. It will not take more than four or five days to reach the capital of the State of Yan.
Therefore, when Qin attacked Yan, it had to fight thousands of miles away; when Zhao attacked Yan, it only fought within a hundred miles.
There is no more wrong strategy than not worrying about disasters within a hundred miles, but focusing on enemies thousands of miles away.
Therefore, I hope that your Majesty can unite with the State of Zhao and unite all countries into one, so that there will be no trouble for the State of Yan.
Marquis Yan Wen said: Of course you are right, but my country is weak, close to the powerful Zhao State in the west, and close to Qi and Zhou in the south. Qi and Zhao are both powerful countries.
You must use the method of marriage and marriage to make the Yan country safe and sound. I am willing to surrender the country to you.
So he funded Su Qin's carriage, horses and money to travel to Zhao.
Lord Fengyang was dead, so he took the opportunity to lobby Zhao Suhou: "Every minister in the world, right down to the scholars in rough clothes, all admire you as a wise king for your benevolence and righteousness, and they all hope to listen to your teachings and give your loyal advice in front of you. It has been a long time."
Even so, Lord Fengyang is jealous of talents and you ignore political affairs, so no guests or lobbyists dare to speak freely in front of you.
Now that Lord Fengyang has passed away, you can get close to the scholars and the people again, so I dare to state my humble opinion to you.
I think for you privately, there is nothing more important than the peace of the people's lives, the peace of the country, and the absence of the need for the people to be involved in wars.
The foundation for the stability of the people lies in the choice of diplomatic relations. If the diplomatic relations are properly chosen, the people will be stable; if the diplomatic relations are not chosen appropriately, the people will be unstable for life.
Please allow me to analyze Zhao's foreign aggression: If Zhao is enemies with Qi and Qin, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qin to attack Qi, the people will not have peace. If they rely on Qi to attack Qin, the people will still have no peace.
Therefore, if you want to plot against the kings of other countries and attack other countries, you often have to publicly declare to sever diplomatic relations with other countries. I hope you will be careful and don't say this easily.
Please let me analyze for you the pros and cons of this extremely clear black and white, yin and yang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
君诚能听臣，燕必致旃裘狗马之地，齐必致鱼盐之海，楚必致橘柚之园，韩、魏、中山皆可使致汤沐之奉，而贵戚父兄皆可以受封侯。
夫割地包利，五伯之所以覆军禽将而求也；封侯贵戚，汤武之所以放弑而争也。
今君高拱而两有之，此臣之所以为君原也。
今大王与秦，则秦必弱韩、魏；与齐，则齐必弱楚、魏。
魏弱则割河外，韩弱则效宜阳，宜阳效则上郡绝，河外割则道不通，楚弱则无援。
此三策者，不可不孰计也。
夫秦下轵道，则南阳危；劫韩包周，则赵氏自操兵；据卫取卷，则齐必入朝秦。
秦欲已得乎山东，则壁举兵而乡赵矣。
秦甲渡河逾漳，据番吾，则兵必战於邯郸之下矣。
此臣之所为君患也。
当今之时，山东之建国莫彊於赵。
赵地方二千馀里，带甲数十万，车千乘，骑万匹，粟支数年。
西有常山，南有河漳，东有清河，北有燕国。
燕固弱国，不足畏也。
秦之所害於天下者莫如赵，然而秦不敢举兵伐赵者，何也？
畏韩、魏之议其後也。
然则韩、魏，赵之南蔽也。
秦之攻韩、魏也，无有名山大川之限，稍蚕食之，傅国都而止。
韩、魏不能支秦，必入臣於秦。
秦无韩、魏之规，则祸必中於赵矣。
此臣之所为君患也。
translation: 
If you really listen to my advice, the State of Yan will definitely donate its land rich in felt fur dogs and horses, the State of Qi will definitely donate its bays rich in fish and salt, the State of Chu will definitely donate its gardens rich in oranges and pomelos, Han, Wei, and Zhongshan will all contribute accordingly to provide you with bathing expenses, and your relatives, father and brothers will all be able to become marquises.
Obtaining ceded territory and enjoying rights was exactly what the five hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period pursued at the cost of wiping out their entire army and capturing their generals; making noble relatives a marquis was the reason why King Tang and King Wu of Shang raised their armies, resorted to exile, and even risked being charged with regicide.
Now that I have you seated, you can easily reap these two benefits, and this is what I wish for you.
Now if the king is friendly with Qin, then Qin will definitely use this advantage to weaken South Korea and Wei; if it is friendly with Qi, then Qi will definitely use this advantage to weaken Chu and Wei.
If Wei is weak, it will cede territory beyond the river; if South Korea is weak, it will give up Yiyang. Once Yiyang is surrendered to Qin, Shangjun will be in a desperate situation. The cession of Hewai will cut off Shangjun's transportation. The state of Chu will be weak, and you will be isolated and helpless.
You must consider these three aspects carefully.
If Qin captures Zhidao, South Korea's Nanyang will be in danger. If Qin wants to seize Nanyang and surround the capital of Zhou, then Zhao will take up arms to defend itself; if Qin occupies the Wei area and captures Juan City, then Qi will definitely surrender to Qin.
Since Qin's desire has succeeded in Shandong, he will definitely send troops to invade Zhao.
If the Qin army crossed the Yellow River, crossed the Zhang River, and occupied Panwu, then the armies of Qin and Zhao would definitely fight under the city of Handan.
That's why I'm worried about you.
At this time, no country established in Shandong was more powerful than Zhao.
Zhao's area is more than two thousand miles across, with hundreds of thousands of armed forces, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses, and enough food to last for several years.
There is Changshan Mountain in the west, Zhangshui River in the south, Qinghe River in the east, and Yan State in the north.
Yan is a weak country to begin with and is not worth fearing.
In the world, the Qin State hates nothing more than the Zhao State. But why did Qin dare not send troops to attack Zhao?
It was because they were afraid that South Korea and Wei would plot against it from behind.
In this case, then Han and Wei can be regarded as the barriers to the south of Zhao.
If Qin attacked Han and Wei, there would be no obstacles from famous mountains and rivers, and it would gradually invade Han and Wei like silkworms eating mulberry leaves, until it approached the capitals of the two countries.
If Han and Wei cannot resist Qin, they will inevitably surrender to Qin.
The Qin State has relieved Han and Wei of plotting concerns, and then the disaster of war will inevitably befall the Zhao State.
This is why I'm worried about you.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻尧无三夫之分，舜无咫尺之地，以有天下；禹无百人之聚，以王诸侯；汤武之士不过三千，车不过三百乘，卒不过三万，立为天子：诚得其道也。
是故明主外料其敌之彊弱，内度其士卒贤不肖，不待两军相当而胜败存亡之机固已形於胸中矣，岂揜於众人之言而以冥冥决事哉！
臣窃以天下之地图案之，诸侯之地五倍於秦，料度诸侯之卒十倍於秦，六国为一，并力西乡而攻秦，秦必破矣。
今西面而事之，见臣於秦。
夫破人之与破於人也，臣人之与臣於人也，岂可同日而论哉！
夫衡人者，皆欲割诸侯之地以予秦。
秦成，则高台榭，美宫室，听竽瑟之音，前有楼阙轩辕，後有长姣美人，国被秦患而不与其忧。
是故夫衡人日夜务以秦权恐愒诸侯以求割地，故原大王孰计之也。
臣闻明主绝疑去谗，屏流言之迹，塞朋党之门，故尊主广地彊兵之计臣得陈忠於前矣。
故窃为大王计，莫如一韩、魏、齐、楚、燕、赵以从亲，以畔秦。
令天下之将相会於洹水之上，通质，刳白马而盟。要约曰： 秦攻楚，齐、魏各出锐师以佐之，韩绝其粮道，赵涉河漳，燕守常山之北。
秦攻韩魏，则楚绝其後，齐出锐师而佐之，赵涉河漳，燕守云中。
秦攻齐，则楚绝其後，韩守城皋，魏塞其道，赵涉河漳、博关，燕出锐师以佐之。
秦攻燕，则赵守常山，楚军武关，齐涉勃海，韩、魏皆出锐师以佐之。
秦攻赵，则韩军宜阳，楚军武关，魏军河外，齐涉清河，燕出锐师以佐之。
诸侯有不如约者，以五国之兵共伐之。
六国从亲以宾秦，则秦甲必不敢出於函谷以害山东矣。
如此，则霸王之业成矣。
赵王曰： 寡人年少，立国日浅，未尝得闻社稷之长计也。
今上客有意存天下，安诸侯寡人敬以国从。
乃饰车百乘，黄金千溢，白璧百双，锦绣千纯，以约诸侯。
是时周天子致文武之胙於秦惠王。
惠王使犀首攻魏，禽将龙贾，取魏之雕阴，且欲东兵。
苏秦恐秦兵之至赵也，乃激怒张仪，入之于秦。
於是说韩宣王曰： 韩北有巩、成皋之固，西有宜阳、商阪之塞，东有宛、穰、洧水，南有陉山，地方九百馀里，带甲数十万，天下之彊弓劲弩皆从韩出。
translation: 
I heard that Tang Yao was not given a reward of 300 acres, and Yu Shun was not given a foot of fiefdom, but he could own the whole world; Yu and Xia could become king among the princes with less than a hundred people; Shang Tang and Zhou Wu had less than 3,000 ministers, less than 300 chariots, and less than 30,000 soldiers, but they could become the emperor: they have indeed mastered the strategy of conquering the world.
Therefore, a wise monarch should be able to predict the strength of the enemy's country externally, and estimate the quality of his soldiers internally. In this way, the key to victory, defeat, and survival will already be clear to him without waiting for the armies of both sides to come into contact. How could one be blinded by everyone's opinions and make decisions on national affairs in a confused manner?
I have privately examined the map of the world. The land of each vassal state is five times that of Qin. It is estimated that the soldiers of each vassal state are ten times that of Qin. If the six countries form a whole and work together to attack Qin westward, Qin will definitely be defeated.
Now, instead, he serves Qin in the west and becomes a minister of Qin.
Defeating others and being defeated by others, asking others to surrender to oneself and oneself to surrendering to others, are they the same thing?
Anyone who advocates the policy of continuous balance wants to cede the land of various vassal states to Qin.
When Qin's hegemony is successful, they can build tall pavilions and pavilions, build magnificent palaces, and enjoy the music played by the lute. There are balconies and palaces in front, and spacious and gorgeous cars; behind there are graceful and beautiful beauties. As for the harm done by Qin to other countries, they will not share their worries.
Therefore, those who advocate Lianheng rely on the power of Qin to threaten the princes and countries day and night and seek to cede land. Therefore, I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
I heard that a wise monarch resolves doubts, rejects slander, abandons the channels of gossip, and blocks the channels of partying and selfish pursuits. That is why I have the opportunity to state before you the strategy to honor the monarch, expand the territory, and strengthen the army.
Privately, I think for your Majesty, it is better to make Han, Wei, Qi, Chu, Yan, and Zhao form a coherent whole to fight against Qin.
Let the generals of the world gather on the Huan River, communicate with each other about their old grudges, kill the white horse and swear a blood oath, and agree with each other: If Qin attacks Chu, then Qi and Wei will send elite troops to help Chu, South Korea will cut off Qin's main grain transportation route, Zhao's army will cross the river to the south to support, and Yan's army will stick to the north of Changshan.
If Qin attacks South Korea and Wei, then the Chu army will cut off Qin's support, and Qi will send elite troops to help Han and Wei. Zhao Jun crossed the river and Zhang to support, while Yan Guo held on to the Yunzhong area.
If Qin attacks Qi, Chu will cut off Qin's support, South Korea will defend Chenggao, Wei will block Qin's main roads, Zhao's army will cross the river and Zhang to advance to Boguan for support, and Yan will send elite troops to coordinate operations.
If the Qin State attacks the Yan State, then the Zhao State will stick to Changshan, the Chu State troops will be stationed in Wuguan, the Qi Army will cross the Bohai Sea, and Han and Wei will send elite troops to coordinate the battle.
If Qin attacks Zhao, South Korea's troops will be stationed in Yiyang, Chu's troops will be stationed in Wuguan, Wei's troops will be stationed outside the river, Qi's troops will cross the Qinghe River, and Yan's elite troops will be sent to coordinate operations.
If some princes do not act in accordance with the covenant, the armies of the other five countries will be used to attack him.
If the six kingdoms were united to resist Qin, then Qin would not dare to send troops from Hanguguan to invade the six kingdoms of Shandong.
In this way, your overlord's cause is successful.
King Zhao said: I am still young and have only been in charge of the country for a short time. I have never heard of strategies for long-term peace and stability in the country.
Now that you intend to ensure the survival of the world and the stability of the various vassal states, I am willing to sincerely surrender to you.
So he decorated a hundred carriages, loaded with a thousand pieces of gold, a hundred pairs of white jade stones, and a thousand bolts of silk and satin, to persuade the vassal states to join.
At this time, the Emperor of Zhou gave King Hui of Qin the meat used in sacrifices to King Wen and King Wu.
King Hui sent rhinoceros heads to attack Wei, captured Wei general Long Jia alive, captured Wei's Diaoyin, and planned to march eastward.
Su Qin was afraid that Qin's troops would attack Zhao, so he used a trick to anger Zhang Yi and force him to defect to Qin.
So Su Qin went to persuade King Xuan of Han and said: Korea has strong Gongyi and Chenggao in the north, the fortresses of Yiyang and Shangban in the west, Wan, Rang, and Mishui in the east, and Xingshan in the south. The area is more than 900 miles in length and breadth, and there are hundreds of thousands of armed forces. All the strong bows and crossbows in the world are made from Korea.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
谿子、少府时力、距来者，皆射六百步之外。
韩卒超足而射，百发不暇止，远者括蔽洞胸，近者镝弇心。
韩卒之剑戟皆出於冥山、棠谿、墨阳、合赙、邓师、宛冯、龙渊、太阿，皆陆断牛马，水截鹄雁，当敌则斩坚甲铁幕，革抉簠芮，无不毕具。
以韩卒之勇，被坚甲，蹠劲弩，带利剑，一人当百，不足言也。
夫以韩之劲与大王之贤，乃西面事秦，交臂而服，羞社稷而为天下笑，无大於此者矣。
是故原大王孰计之。
大王事秦，秦必求宜阳、成皋。
今兹效之，明年又复求割地。
与则无地以给之，不与则弃前功而受後祸。
且大王之地有尽而秦之求无已，以有尽之地而逆无已之求，此所谓市怨结祸者也，不战而地已削矣。
臣闻鄙谚曰： 宁为鸡口，无为牛後。
今西面交臂而臣事秦，何异於牛後乎？
夫以大王之贤，挟彊韩之兵，而有牛後之名，臣窃为大王羞之。
於是韩王勃然作色，攘臂瞋目，按剑仰天太息曰； 寡人虽不肖，必不能事秦。
今主君诏以赵王之教，敬奉社稷以从。
又说魏襄王曰： 大王之地，南有鸿沟、陈、汝南、许、郾、昆阳、召陵、舞阳、新都、新郪，东有淮、颍、枣、无胥，西有长城之界，北有河外、卷、衍、酸枣，地方千里。
地名虽小，然而田舍庐庑之数，曾无所刍牧。
人民之众，车马之多，日夜行不绝，輷輷殷殷，若有三军之众。
臣窃量大王之国不下楚，然衡人怵王交彊虎狼之秦以侵天下，卒有秦患，不顾其祸。
夫挟彊秦之势以内劫其主，罪无过此者。
translation: 
For example, the Xizi crossbow and the Shili and range made by Shaofu have a range of more than 600 steps.
Korean soldiers shoot with their feet on the crossbow. They can fire a hundred arrows continuously without stopping. Enemies far away can be shot through the armor on their chests, and enemies close by can be shot through their hearts.
The swords used by Korean soldiers were all forged from Mingshan, Tangxi, Moyang, Hezhen, Dengshi, Wanfeng, Longyuan, and Tai'a. These sharp weapons can cut off cattle and horses on land, chop swans and wild geese on the water, and can cut through strong armor and iron clothes when facing the enemy.
With the bravery of Korean soldiers, wearing strong armor, pulling powerful crossbows, and wearing sharp swords, even if one is worth a hundred, it is not a problem.
With the strong military strength of South Korea and the wisdom of the king, he went west to serve Qin and surrendered, bringing shame to the country and being ridiculed by the world. There is nothing more serious than this.
Therefore, I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
If the king goes to serve Qin, Qin will definitely ask for Yiyang and Chenggao from you.
This year the land will be dedicated to him, and next year he will ask for ceded land.
Give it to him, but there is no land to give to him. If you don't give it, you will lose the good results of the previous land harvesting and suffer future troubles.
Moreover, the king's land is limited, but Qin's greedy demands are endless. To exchange limited land for endless demands is called using money to buy resentment and entangle disasters. There was no need to fight, and the land was taken away.
I've heard a saying: It's better to have a chicken's mouth than a cow's anus.
Now, if you surrender to the west, what is the difference between being a cow's anus?
Although your Majesty is wise and possesses Korea's powerful army, yet you suffer the ugly reputation of being a cow queen. Privately, I feel ashamed for your Majesty.
At this time, King Han suddenly changed his face, rolled up his sleeves, opened his eyes angrily, pressed his sword on his hand, looked up at the sky and sighed longly, saying: Although I have no future, I can never serve Qin.
Now that you have conveyed King Zhao's advice, I am willing to entrust the entire country to you and obey your arrangements.
Su Qin also lobbied King Wei Xiang and said: Your Majesty's land is bounded by Honggou, Chendi, Runan, Xudi, Lindi, Kunyang, Zhaoling, Wuyang, Xindu, and Xinyi in the south, Huaihe, Yinghe, Zhuzao, and Wuxu in the east, bounded by the Great Wall in the west, and Hewai, Juandi, Yandi, and Suizao in the north. The land stretches thousands of miles.
Although the place is nominally small, the fields are covered with houses, and there is no room for grazing livestock.
The population is densely populated, and there are many chariots and horses. They are traveling day and night, in an endless stream, with a roaring sound, as if there are three armies and horses.
I privately estimate that your king's power is as great as that of Chu. But those who advocate Lianheng tempt you to serve the Qin State and invade the whole world with the Qin State, which is as ferocious as tigers and wolves. Once the Wei State is harmed by the Qin State, no one will care about your disaster.
Relying on Qin's powerful power to internally hijack the monarchs of other countries, there is no crime more serious than this.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
魏，天下之彊国也；王，天下之贤王也。
今乃有意西面而事秦，称东籓，筑帝宫，受冠带，祠春秋，臣窃为大王耻之。
臣闻越王勾践战敝卒三千人，禽夫差於干遂；武王卒三千人，革车三百乘，制纣於牧野：岂其士卒众哉，诚能奋其威也。
今窃闻大王之卒，武士二十万，苍头二十万，奋击二十万，厮徒十万，车六百乘，骑五千匹。
此其过越王勾践、武王远矣，今乃听於群臣之说而欲臣事秦。
夫事秦必割地以效实，故兵未用而国已亏矣。
凡群臣之言事秦者，皆奸人，非忠臣也。
夫为人臣，割其主之地以求外交，偷取一时之功而不顾其後，破公家而成私门，外挟彊秦之势以内劫其主，以求割地，原大王孰察之。
周书曰： 釂釂不绝，蔓蔓柰何？
豪氂不伐，将用斧柯。
前虑不定，後有大患，将柰之何？
大王诚能听臣，六国从亲，专心并力壹意，则必无彊秦之患。
故敝邑赵王使臣效愚计，奉明约，在大王之诏诏之。
魏王曰： 寡人不肖，未尝得闻明教。今主君以赵王之诏诏之，敬以国从。
因东说齐宣王曰： 齐南有泰山，东有琅邪，西有清河，北有勃海，此所谓四塞之国也。
齐地方二千馀里，带甲数十万，粟如丘山。
三军之良，五家之兵，进如锋矢，战如雷霆，解如风雨。
即有军役，未尝倍泰山，绝清河，涉勃海也。
临菑之中七万户，臣窃度之，不下户三男子，三七二十一万，不待发於远县，而临菑之卒固已二十一万矣。
临菑甚富而实，其民无不吹竽鼓瑟，弹琴击筑，斗鸡走狗，六博蹋鞠者。
临菑之涂，车毂击，人肩摩，连衽成帷，举袂成幕，挥汗成雨，家殷人足，志高气扬。
translation: 
Wei is the most powerful country in the world; Wang is the wise king in the world.
Now you actually intend to serve Qin to the west, claim to be a vassal state of Qin in the east, build a palace for Qin, accept the enfeoffment of Qin, adopt the style of Qin's crown and clothing, and pay tribute and sacrifice to Qin in the spring and autumn. I privately feel ashamed for the king.
I heard that King Gou Jian of Yue fought with only 3,000 exhausted soldiers and captured Wu King Fu Cha alive at Qian Sui; King Wu of Zhou only used 3,000 soldiers and 300 leather-covered chariots to subdue Shang Zhou in Muye: Could it be that they relied on more soldiers and generals?
It's really because of giving full play to their power. Now, I have heard privately that the king's military strength includes 200,000 elite troops, 200,000 troops wearing blue turbans, 200,000 troops capable of charging into battle, 100,000 orderlies, 600 chariots, and 5,000 horses.
These strengths are far beyond that of King Gou Jian of Yue and King Wu of Zhou. However, now you listen to the advice of the ministers and want to serve Qin as a minister.
If you serve Qin, you must cede land to show your loyalty. Therefore, before the army is used, the country has already suffered losses.
All ministers who falsely claim to serve Qin are treacherous people, not loyal ministers.
As ministers of the monarch, they want to cede their monarch's land in order to gain friendship with Qin, steal temporary benefits regardless of the consequences, destroy the interests of the country and achieve personal benefits, rely on the power of Qin to externally, and hijack their monarch internally to achieve the purpose of ceding land. I hope your Majesty will carefully examine this situation.
"Book of Zhou" says: When vegetation grows weak twigs, what if we don't remove them in time and they grow and stretch everywhere?
If you don't cut off the slender branches in time, you will have to use an ax when they grow thicker.
If you don’t consider maturity beforehand, disaster will befall you later. What will you do about it then?
If your Majesty can really follow my advice, if the six countries unite and work together, with one will, there will definitely be no harm from the Qin Dynasty.
Therefore, King Zhao of our country sent me to offer immature strategies and detailed conventions, all relying on the king's instructions to call on everyone.
The King of Wei said: I have no future and have never heard of such wise advice. Now that you have come to teach me on the mission of King Zhao, I will seriously lead the people of the country to follow your arrangements.
Then, Su Qin went to the east to persuade King Qi Xuan, saying: Qi has Mount Tai in the south, Langye Mountain in the east, Qinghe River in the west, and Bohai Sea in the north. This can be said to be a country with natural dangers on all sides.
Qi's land spans more than two thousand miles, its armed forces are hundreds of thousands, and its grain piles are as high as hills.
The three armies are excellent, uniting the soldiers of the five families. The attack is as brave and swift as the sharp blade and the arrow of the good bow. The battle is as fierce as the thunder and fury, and the retreat is as fast as the wind and rain.
Since the beginning of the campaign, the troops south of Mount Tai have never been recruited, nor have they crossed the Qinghe River and the Bohai Sea to recruit soldiers from these two divisions.
There are 70,000 households in Linzi alone. I estimate privately that each household has no less than three men, 37.21 million. There is no need to recruit soldiers from distant counties. Linzi alone already has enough soldiers of 210,000.
Linzi is rich and well-off, and all the residents here play the yu, drums and harp, play the piano and build buildings, fight chickens and running dogs, and play chess and football.
The streets of Linzi are so crowded that their axles hit each other, and there are so many people that their shoulders rub against each other. Connecting the skirts of clothes can form a curtain, and lifting the sleeves can become a curtain. Everyone's sweat is like rain. Every family is well-off, everyone is rich, their ambitions are high, and their will is high.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
夫以大王之贤与齐之彊，天下莫能当。
今乃西面而事秦，臣窃为大王羞之。
且夫韩、魏之所以重畏秦者，为与秦接境壤界也。兵出而相当，不出十日而战胜存亡之机决矣。
韩、魏战而胜秦，则兵半折，四境不守；战而不胜，则国已危亡随其後。
是故韩、魏之所以重与秦战，而轻为之臣也。
今秦之攻齐则不然。倍韩、魏之地，过卫阳晋之道，径乎亢父之险，车不得方轨，骑不得比行，百人守险，千人不敢过也。秦虽欲深入，则狼顾，恐韩、魏之议其後也。
是故恫疑虚猲，骄矜而不敢进，则秦之不能害齐亦明矣。
夫不深料秦之无柰齐何，而欲西面而事之，是群臣之计过也。
今无臣事秦之名而有彊国之实，臣是故原大王少留意计之。
齐王曰： 寡人不敏，僻远守海，穷道东境之国也，未尝得闻馀教。
今足下以赵王诏诏之，敬以国从。
乃西南说楚威王曰： 楚，天下之彊国也；王，天下之贤王也。
西有黔中、巫郡，东有夏州、海阳，南有洞庭、苍梧，北有陉塞、郇阳，地方五千馀里，带甲百万，车千乘，骑万匹，粟支十年。
此霸王之资也。
夫以楚之彊与王之贤，天下莫能当也。
今乃欲西面而事秦，则诸侯莫不西面而朝於章台之下矣。
秦之所害莫如楚，楚彊则秦弱，秦彊则楚弱，其势不两立。
故为大王计，莫如从亲以孤秦。
大王不从，秦必起两军，一军出武关，一军下黔中，则鄢郢动矣。
臣闻治之其未乱也，为之其未有也。患至而后忧之，则无及已。
故原大王蚤孰计之。
大王诚能听臣，臣请令山东之国奉四时之献，以承大王之明诏，委社稷，奉宗庙，练士厉兵，在大王之所用之。
大王诚能用臣之愚计，则韩、魏、齐、燕、赵、卫之妙音美人必充後宫，燕、代橐驼良马必实外厩。
故从合则楚王，衡成则秦帝。
今释霸王之业，而有事人之名，臣窃为大王不取也。
夫秦，虎狼之国也，有吞天下之心。
秦，天下之仇雠也。
衡人皆欲割诸侯之地以事秦，此所谓养仇而奉雠者也。
夫为人臣，割其主之地以外交彊虎狼之秦，以侵天下，卒有秦患，不顾其祸。
夫外挟彊秦之威以内劫其主，以求割地，大逆不忠，无过此者。
故从亲则诸侯割地以事楚，衡合则楚割地以事秦，此两策者相去远矣，二者大王何居焉？
故敝邑赵王使臣效愚计，奉明约，在大王诏之。
楚王曰： 寡人之国西与秦接境，秦有举巴蜀并汉中之心。
秦，虎狼之国，不可亲也。
而韩、魏迫於秦患，不可与深谋，与深谋恐反人以入於秦，故谋未发而国已危矣。
寡人自料以楚当秦，不见胜也；内与群臣谋，不足恃也。
translation: 
With the wisdom of the king and the strength of Qi, no country in the world can compare with it.
Now that you have to go west to serve Qin, I feel ashamed for your Majesty.
Moreover, the reason why Han and Wei are very afraid of Qin is because they are bordering Qin. If both sides send troops to fight, the situation of victory or defeat will be decided in less than ten days.
If Han and Wei defeated Qin, they would lose half of their troops and their borders would be unable to be defended; if they could not win the battle, then the country would be in danger.
This is why Han and Wei regard fighting with Qin as so important and want to surrender to Qin so easily.
Now, the situation of Qin's attack on Qi is different. Qin's back is backed by the lands of Han and Wei, and it has to pass through Wei's Yangjin stronghold and Qi's Kangfu's dangerous fortress. Chariots cannot drive side by side, and war horses cannot run parallel. As long as a hundred people guard the dangerous place, even a thousand people dare not pass. Even if the Qin army wants to go deep, it will be like wolves with doubts, often looking back, fearing that Han and Wei are plotting against it behind.
So it's bluffing, intimidating and threatening. Although it is arrogant and boastful, it does not dare to risk attacking, so it is quite clear that Qin cannot harm Qi.
They failed to fully understand the fact that Qin State was basically helpless against Qi State, but wanted to go west to serve Qin State. This was a strategic mistake among the ministers.
Now, Qi State has not yet had the ugly reputation of surrendering to Qin State, but it has strong national strength, so I hope that the king will consider it carefully in order to decide on countermeasures.
King Qi said: I am not a smart person. I live in a remote country, close to the sea, with no roads, and located in the east. I have never heard your wise teachings.
Now that you have come to teach me on the mission of King Zhao, I will solemnly lead the people of the country to obey your arrangements.
So Su Qin went southwest to lobby King Wei of Chu, saying: "The Kingdom of Chu is the most powerful country in the world; your Majesty, the Kingdom of Chu is the wise king in the world."
Chu State has Qianzhong and Wujun in the west, Xiazhou and Haiyang in the east, Dongting and Cangwu in the south, and Jingsai and Xiyang in the north. It has a land of more than 5,000 miles and has an armed force of one million, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses. It has enough grain to last ten years.
This is the capital to build hegemony.
With the power of Chu and the wisdom of the king, no country in the world can match it.
Now that you want to serve Qin to the west, there will be no prince in the world who will not bow to the west and submit to Qin's Zhangtai Palace.
Qin's greatest worry is no greater than that of Chu. If Chu is strong, Qin will be weak; if Qin is strong, Chu will be weak. Judging from this situation, the two countries cannot coexist at the same time.
Therefore, I advise your majesty to plan, it is better to join forces and have a blind date to isolate Qin.
If the king does not adopt the policy of cooperation, Qin will definitely send two armies, one to attack from Wuguan, and the other to go straight to central Guizhou. Then the situation in Yanying will be shaken.
I heard that we should control unrest before it occurs, and take action before disaster strikes. If you wait until disaster strikes before you worry about it, it will be too late.
So I hope your Majesty can make careful plans early.
If the king really listens to my advice, I can make all the countries in Shandong offer you the gifts of the four seasons, accept your wise guidance, entrust the country to you, dedicate ancestral temples for your protection, train soldiers, sharpen weapons, and obey the king's command.
If the king can really adopt my immature strategy, then your harem will surely be filled with the beautiful music and beautiful women of Han, Wei, Qi, Yan, Zhao, Wei and other countries. Camels and fine horses produced in the lands of Yan and Dai will surely fill your pen.
Therefore, if the alliance is successful, Chu will be able to become king. If Lian Heng succeeds, Qin will be able to proclaim himself emperor.
Now you have to give up your career as king and gain the reputation of serving others. I privately think that this approach of your Majesty is not advisable.
Qin is a country as ferocious as tigers and wolves, and has the ambition to annex the world.
Qin is also the common enemy of all the princes in the world.
Anyone who advocates Lianheng wants to divide the land of various princes and offer it to Qin. This is called supporting the enemy and worshiping the enemy.
As ministers of other people, they wanted to divide their king's land to interact with Qin, a powerful wolf and tiger, and invade the world. However, their country was suddenly invaded by Qin, but they did not care about these disasters.
Relying on the power of the Qin Dynasty externally to hijack one's own monarch internally and demand ceded territory is the greatest rebellion and the greatest disloyalty. There is no more serious crime than this.
Therefore, if there is an alliance and a blind date, the princes will cede land to serve the Chu State. If the Lian Heng is successful, the Chu State will cede land to serve the Qin State. These two strategies are too different. Between the two, which side should the king stand on?
Therefore, King Zhao of our country sent me to present this immature strategy and a detailed agreement. It is up to the king to inform everyone.
The King of Chu said: Our country borders Qin in the west, and Qin has the ambition to seize Ba and Shu and annex Hanzhong.
Qin is a country as ferocious as tigers and wolves, and should not be approached.
Han and Wei are often threatened by Qin's aggression and cannot make in-depth plans with them. If we plan in-depth with them, I am afraid that some rebellious people will leak it to Qin, causing the plan to be implemented before the plan is implemented, and the country will be in danger.
I personally estimate that if we pit Chu State against Qin State, we may not necessarily win; and they cannot be trusted when planning with the officials within the court.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
寡人卧不安席，食不甘味，心摇摇然如县旌而无所终薄。
今主君欲一天下，收诸侯，存危国，寡人谨奉社稷以从。
於是六国从合而并力焉。
苏秦为从约长，并相六国。
北报赵王，乃行过雒阳，车骑辎重，诸侯各发使送之甚众，疑於王者。
周显王闻之恐惧，除道，使人郊劳。
苏秦之昆弟妻嫂侧目不敢仰视，俯伏侍取食。
苏秦笑谓其嫂曰： 何前倨而後恭也？
嫂委石蒲蒲服，以面掩地而谢曰： 见季子位高金多也。
苏秦喟然叹曰： 此一人之身，富贵则亲戚畏惧之，贫贱则轻易之，况众人乎！
且使我有雒阳负郭田二顷，吾岂能佩六国相印乎！
於是散千金以赐宗族朋友。
初，苏秦之燕，贷人百钱为资，乃得富贵，以百金偿之。
遍报诸所尝见德者。
其从者有一人独未得报，乃前自言。
苏秦曰： 我非忘子。子之与我至燕，再三欲去我易水之上，方是时，我困，故望子深，是以苏秦既约六国从亲，归赵，赵肃侯封为武安君，乃投从约书於秦。
秦兵不敢闚函谷关十五年。
其後秦使犀首欺齐、魏，与共伐赵，欲败从约。
齐、魏伐赵，赵王让苏秦。
苏秦恐，请使燕，必报齐。
苏秦去赵而从约皆解。
秦惠王以其女为燕太子妇。
是岁，文侯卒，太子立，是为燕易王。
易王初立，齐宣王因燕丧伐燕，取十城。
translation: 
I couldn't sleep well while lying on the bed, and I couldn't feel the sweetness when I ate. My mind was in a trance, like a flag hanging in the sky with no where to go.
Now that you intend to unify the world, unite the princes, and preserve the country in danger, I am willing to respectfully entrust the entire country to you and obey your arrangements.
As a result, the six countries united successfully and worked together.
Su Qin became the leader of the United Vertical Alliance and concurrently served as the Prime Minister of the Six Nations.
Su Qin went north to return his order to King Zhao. On the way, he passed Luoyang. The accompanying vehicles and horses were fully loaded with luggage. There were many envoys sent by the princes to see him off, and they were as grand as the emperor.
King Xian of Zhou Dynasty was frightened when he heard the news. He quickly found someone to clear the road for him and sent envoys to the suburbs to greet him.
Su Qin's brothers, wife, and sister-in-law squinted and did not dare to look up at him. They all fell down on the ground and served him with great respect.
Su Qin smiled and said to his sister-in-law: Why were you so arrogant to me before, but now you are so deferential to me?
His sister-in-law quickly fell to the ground, bent her body, and crawled in front of him. She put her face to the ground and apologized, saying: "Because I saw that uncle, you have a high status and a lot of money."
Su Qin sighed with emotion and said: I am the same person. When I am rich, my relatives will respect me, but when I am poor, they will despise me. Not to mention ordinary people!
If I had two hectares of fertile farmland in the suburbs of Luoyang back then, would I still be able to wear the seals of six countries now?
At that time, he distributed thousands of gold coins and gave them to relatives and friends.
When Su Qin went to the State of Yan, he borrowed one hundred gold from someone for travel expenses. Now that he was rich, he borrowed one hundred gold to repay that person.
And he repaid all those who had been kind to him in the past.
Among his entourage, there was only one person who did not receive the reward, so he went forward to plead his case.
Su Qin said: "I have not forgotten you. When you came to Yan State with me, you tried to leave me again and again by the Yishui River. At that time, I was in dire straits, so I deeply blamed you, so I put you last. Now you can also get the reward." After Su Qin agreed on the alliance of the six countries, he returned to the State of Zhao. Marquis Su of Zhao named him Lord Wu'an, so Su Qin sent the alliance to Qin.
From then on, Qin State did not dare to spy on countries outside Hangu Pass for fifteen years.
Later, Qin State sent envoy Xishou to deceive Qi State and Wei State, and joined forces with them to attack Zhao State, intending to destroy the alliance.
Qi and Wei attacked Zhao, and the king of Zhao blamed Su Qin.
Su Qin was afraid and asked to send an envoy to Yan State to take revenge on Qi State.
After Su Qin left Zhao, the alliance collapsed.
King Hui of Qin married his daughter to the prince of Yan as his wife.
In this year, Marquis Wen of Yan died and the prince ascended the throne. This was King Yi of Yan.
King Yi had just ascended the throne, and King Xuan of Qi took advantage of Yan's mourning to attack Yan and captured ten cities in a row.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
易王谓苏秦曰： 往日先生至燕，而先王资先生见赵，遂约六国从。
今齐先伐赵，次至燕，以先生之故为天下笑，先生能为燕得侵地乎？
苏秦大惭，曰： 请为王取之。
苏秦见齐王，再拜，俯而庆，仰而吊。
齐王曰： 是何庆吊相随之速也？
苏秦曰： 臣闻饥人所以饥而不食乌喙者，为其愈充腹而与饿死同患也。
今燕虽弱小，即秦王之少婿也。
大王利其十城而长与彊秦为仇。
今使弱燕为雁行而彊秦敝其後，以招天下之精兵，是食乌喙之类也。
齐王愀然变色曰： 然则柰何？
苏秦曰： 臣闻古之善制事者，转祸为福，因败为功。
大王诚能听臣计，即归燕之十城。
燕无故而得十城，必喜；秦王知以己之故而归燕之十城，亦必喜。
此所谓弃仇雠而得石交者也。
夫燕、秦俱事齐，则大王号令天下，莫敢不听。
是王以虚辞附秦，以十城取天下。此霸王之业也。 王曰： 善。
於是乃归燕之十城。
人有毁苏秦者曰： 左右卖国反覆之臣也，将作乱。
苏秦恐得罪归，而燕王不复官也。
苏秦见燕王曰： 臣，东周之鄙人也，无有分寸之功，而王亲拜之於庙而礼之於廷。
今臣为王卻齐之兵而得十城，宜以益亲。
今来而王不官臣者，人必有以不信伤臣於王者。臣之不信，王之福也。
臣闻忠信者，所以自为也；进取者，所以为人也。
且臣之说齐王，曾非欺之也。
臣弃老母於东周，固去自为而行进取也。
translation: 
The King of Yi said to Su Qin: Once upon a time, Sir, when you came to the Kingdom of Yan, the late king sponsored you to meet the King of Zhao, and then we agreed on the alliance of the six kingdoms.
Now the State of Qi first attacks the State of Zhao, and then the State of Yan, and is ridiculed by the world because of the Master. Can the State of Qi regain the occupied territory for the State of Yan?
Su Qin felt very ashamed and said: Please let me take back the lost land for the king.
When Su Qin saw the King of Qi, he bowed twice, bent down to express his congratulations to the King of Qi, and raised his head to express his condolences to the King of Qi.
King Qi said: Why do celebrations and mourning follow each other so quickly?
Su Qin said: I heard that hungry people would rather be hungry than eat poisonous plants like Aconitum, because the more it fills the stomach, the more it will be the same as the disaster of starving to death.
Now, although the Yan State is weak, King Yan is the youngest son-in-law of King Qin.
The king took advantage of his ten cities but had a long-term enmity with Qiang Qin.
Today, the weak Yan State flies like wild geese one after another, and the powerful Qin State follows behind it as a cover, thus causing the world's elite troops to attack you. This is similar to eating aconite.
King Qi's face suddenly became sad and serious, and he said, "In this case, what should we do?"
Su Qin said: I heard that people who were good at handling things in ancient times were able to turn disaster into good fortune and failure into success.
Your Majesty, you can really follow my plan and immediately return the ten cities of Yan State.
Yan Guo must be very happy to take back ten cities for nothing. King Qin must be very happy to know that the ten cities of Yan were returned to Yan because of his relationship.
This is called giving up hatred and gaining unbreakable friendship.
The states of Yan and Qin both come to serve Qi, so no one dares not to listen to the orders issued by the king to the world.
This is tantamount to relying on Qin with false boasts, but actually gaining the world at the cost of ten cities. This is the achievement of dominating the world. King Qi said: OK.
So the ten cities of Yan were returned.
Some people who slandered Su Qin said: Su Qin is a courtier who swings around, betrays the country, and is capricious, and will cause trouble.
Su Qin was afraid of being convicted and returned to Yan State, but the King of Yan refused to give him an official position.
Su Qin asked to see King Yan and said: I am a humble person in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty with no merits, but the king granted me an official position in the ancestral temple and treated me with courtesy in the court.
Now that I have persuaded the king to retreat the army of Qi and take back ten cities, he should be getting closer to me.
Now that I have returned to Yan State and the king has not granted me an official position, someone must have slandered me in front of you on the charge of disloyalty. In fact, my "disloyalty" is the king's blessing.
I heard that a loyal person does everything for his own purpose; an enterprising person does everything for others.
Besides, when I lobbied the King of Qi, I didn’t deceive him.
I left my mother behind in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. I had no intention of establishing a reputation for loyalty for myself, but was determined to help others make progress.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今有孝如曾参，廉如伯夷，信如尾生。得此三人者以事大王，何若？
王曰： 足矣。
苏秦曰： 孝如曾参，义不离其亲一宿於外，王又安能使之步行千里而事弱燕之危王哉？
廉如伯夷，义不为孤竹君之嗣，不肯为武王臣，不受封侯而饿死首阳山下。
有廉如此，王又安能使之步行千里而行进取於齐哉？
信如尾生，与女子期於梁下，女子不来，水至不去，抱柱而死。
有信如此，王又安能使之步行千里卻齐之彊兵哉？
臣所谓以忠信得罪於上者也。
燕王曰： 若不忠信耳，岂有以忠信而得罪者乎？
苏秦曰： 不然。
臣闻客有远为吏而其妻私於人者，其夫将来，其私者忧之，妻曰 勿忧，吾已作药酒待之矣 。
居三日，其夫果至，妻使妾举药酒进之。妾欲言酒之有药，则恐其逐主母也，欲勿言乎，则恐其杀主父也。於是乎详僵而弃酒。
主父大怒，笞之五十。
故妾一僵而覆酒，上存主父，下存主母，然而不免於笞，恶在乎忠信之无罪也？
夫臣之过，不幸而类是乎！
燕王曰： 先生复就故官。
益厚遇之。
易王母，文侯夫人也，与苏秦私通。
燕王知之，而事之加厚。
苏秦恐诛，乃说燕王曰： 臣居燕不能使燕重，而在齐则燕必重。
燕王曰： 唯先生之所为。
於是苏秦详为得罪於燕而亡走齐，齐宣王以为客卿。
齐宣王卒，湣王即位，说湣王厚葬以明孝，高宫室大苑囿以明得意，欲破敝齐而为燕。
燕易王卒，燕哙立为王。
translation: 
Now, if there are people who are as filial as Zeng Shen, as honest as Boyi, and as faithful as Wei Sheng, what do you think if these three types of people are allowed to serve the king?
King Yan replied: "That's enough."
Su Qin said: As filial as Zeng Shen, to fulfill his filial piety, he would never leave his parents to spend a night outside. How could you let him walk thousands of miles like this to come to the weak country of Yan to serve the king who was in danger?
Like Boyi, he was honest and upheld justice. He refused to be the heir of Lord Guzhu, refused to be a minister of King Wu of Zhou, refused to accept the title of nobility and became a marquis, and eventually starved to death at the foot of Shouyang Mountain.
With such an incorruptible character like him, how could the king let him walk thousands of miles to Qi State to do some work and get back ten cities?
Like Obi, Cheng Xin made an appointment with the woman for a tryst under the bridge, but the woman did not come as scheduled. She did not leave even when the flood came. She hugged the bridge pillar and was drowned by the water.
With such integrity, how could the king let him walk thousands of miles to retreat from Qi's powerful army?
It was for my so-called loyalty and faithfulness that I was convicted in front of the king.
King Yan said: You are not loyal and trustworthy. Is there anyone who is guilty of being loyal and trustworthy?
Su Qin said: That's not the case.
I heard that there was a man who was an official in a far away place. His wife was having an affair with someone else. When her husband was about to come back, the person she was having an affair with became worried. The wife said, "Don't worry. I have prepared poisoned wine and am waiting for him."
Three days later, her husband arrived, and his wife asked her concubine to bring him poisoned wine. The concubine wanted to tell him that the wine was poisonous, but she was afraid that he would drive the mistress away; but she didn't tell him, and she was afraid that her poisonous wine would kill the mistress, so she pretended to fall and poured the wine on the ground.
The master's father became furious and beat her with fifty bamboo boards.
So when the concubine fell down and spilled the glass of poisoned wine, she saved her master's father above and her mistress below, but she couldn't avoid being beaten. How can you say that loyalty and faithfulness can't be punished?
Unfortunately, my sin is similar to what happened to my concubine!
King Yan said: Sir, please restore your original official position.
From then on, King Yan treated him more and more favorably.
The mother of King Yan Yi was the wife of Marquis Wen of Yan. Having an affair with Su Qin.
King Yan Yi knew about this, but treated Su Qin even more generously.
Su Qin was afraid that he would be killed, so he persuaded the King of Yan: If I stay in Yan State, I cannot improve Yan State's status. If I stay in Qi State, I will certainly improve Yan State's status.
King Yan said: Let Sir do everything.
So Su Qin pretended to have offended King Yan and fled to Qi. King Xuan of Qi appointed him as a guest minister.
When King Xuan of Qi passed away and King Min succeeded to the throne, Su Qin persuaded King Min to hold a grand funeral to show his filial piety, build palaces high on the ground, and open gardens on a large scale to show his success. In fact, Su Qin planned to ruin Qi State, which would benefit Yan State.
King Yi of Yan died, and Yan Kuai ascended the throne and became the king.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其後齐大夫多与苏秦争宠者，而使人刺苏秦，不死，殊而走。
齐王使人求贼，不得。
苏秦且死，乃谓齐王曰： 臣即死，车裂臣以徇於市，曰 苏秦为燕作乱於齐 ，如此则臣之贼必得矣。
於是如其言，而杀苏秦者果自出，齐王因而诛之。
燕闻之曰： 甚矣，齐之为苏生报仇也！
苏秦既死，其事大泄。
齐後闻之，乃恨怒燕。
燕甚恐。
苏秦之弟曰代，代弟苏厉，见兄遂，亦皆学。
及苏秦死，代乃求见燕王，欲袭故事。
曰： 臣，东周之鄙人也。
窃闻大王义甚高，鄙人不敏，释鉏耨而干大王。
至於邯郸，所见者绌於所闻於东周，臣窃负其志。
及至燕廷，观王之群臣下吏，王，天下之明王也。
燕王曰： 子所谓明王者何如也？
对曰： 臣闻明王务闻其过，不欲闻其善，臣请谒王之过。
夫齐、赵者，燕之仇雠也；楚、魏者，燕之援国也。
今王奉仇雠以伐援国，非所以利燕也。
王自虑之，此则计过，无以闻者，非忠臣也。
王曰： 夫齐者固寡人之雠，所欲伐也，直患国敝力不足也。
子能以燕伐齐，则寡人举国委子。
对曰： 凡天下战国七，燕处弱焉。
独战则不能，有所附则无不重。
南附楚，楚重；西附秦，秦重；中附韩、魏，韩、魏重。
且苟所附之国重，此必使王重矣。
今夫齐，长主而自用也。
translation: 
After that, many officials of Qi State competed with Su Qin for the king's favor, so they sent people to assassinate Su Qin. Su Qin was not dead at the time, but escaped with fatal injuries.
The King of Qi sent people to arrest the murderer, but he was not caught.
Su Qin was about to die, so he said to King Qi: "I am going to die soon. Please cut my body into five pieces in a crowded market and show it to the public." He said: "Su Qin is plotting rebellion in Qi for the sake of Yan. If you do this, my assassin will definitely be caught."
At that time, King Qi did as he said, and the murderer who assassinated Su Qin came out on his own initiative, so King Qi killed him.
When King Yan heard the news, he said: Qi State's act of revenge for Mr. Su has gone too far.
Shortly after Su Qin's death, a large number of facts about his destruction of Qi for Yan were leaked.
Later, when the State of Qi heard these secrets, it turned its anger on the State of Yan.
King Yan was very scared.
Su Qin's younger brother is Su Dai, and Dai's younger brother is Su Li. Seeing that their elder brothers have become famous and fulfilled their wishes, they all work hard to learn the art of vertical and horizontal.
When Su Qin died, Su Dai went to see King Yan and planned to inherit Su Qin's old business.
He said to King Yan: "I am a despicable person from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty."
I heard privately that the king is very virtuous, but I am very stupid, so I gave up my farm tools and came to see the king.
When I arrived in Handan, Zhao State, the situation I saw was far inferior to what I heard in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. I privately decided to take on the ambition of doing something for you.
When I arrived at the Yan court and looked around the king's ministers and officials, I realized that the king was the wisest king in the world.
King Yan said: What do you mean by a wise king?
Su Dai replied: I heard that a wise king would like to hear others point out his faults, rather than just hear others praise his merits. Please allow me to explain the faults of the king.
Qi and Zhao are the enemies of Yan, while Chu and Wei are Yan's back-up countries.
Now, the king flatters the enemy and attacks the country that can save him. This is not good for Yan.
Please think about it for yourself, Your Majesty. This is a strategic mistake. Anyone who does not tell you about this mistake is not a loyal minister.
King Yan said: Qi is my enemy and a country that I want to conquer. I am just worried that the country will be weak and not have enough strength.
If you can attack Qi with the current strength of Yan State, then I am willing to entrust the entire country to you.
Su Dai replied: There are seven countries in the world that can fight against each other, but Yan is in a weak position.
You cannot win by fighting alone, but as long as you have someone to rely on, you can always improve your prestige.
If you attach yourself to Chu State to the south, the prestige of Chu State will increase; if you attach yourself to Qin State to the west, the prestige of Qin State will increase. The central part relied on Korea and Wei, and the prestige of Korea and Wei increased.
If the prestige of the country you are attached to increases, this will definitely improve your prestige.
Nowadays, the king of Qi is old, stubborn and confident, and cannot listen to other people's opinions.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
南攻楚五年，畜聚竭；西困秦三年，士卒罢敝；北与燕人战，覆三军，得二将。
然而以其馀兵南面举五千乘之大宋，而包十二诸侯。
此其君欲得，其民力竭，恶足取乎！
且臣闻之，数战则民劳，久师则兵敝矣。
燕王曰： 吾闻齐有清济、浊河可以为固，长城、钜防足以为塞，诚有之乎？
对曰： 天时不与，虽有清济、浊河，恶足以为固！
民力罢敝，虽有长城、钜防，恶足以为塞！
且异日济西不师，所以备赵也；河北不师，所以备燕也。
今济西河北尽已役矣，封内敝矣。
夫骄君必好利，而亡国之臣必贪於财。
王诚能无羞从子母弟以为质，宝珠玉帛以事左右，彼将有德燕而轻亡宋，则齐可亡已。
燕王曰： 吾终以子受命於天矣。
燕乃使一子质於齐。
而苏厉因燕质子而求见齐王。
齐王怨苏秦，欲囚苏厉。
燕质子为谢，已遂委质为齐臣。
燕相子之与苏代婚，而欲得燕权，乃使苏代侍质子於齐。
齐使代报燕，燕王哙问曰： 齐王其霸乎？
曰： 不能。
曰： 何也？
曰： 不信其臣。
於是燕王专任子之，已而让位，燕大乱。
齐伐燕，杀王哙、子之。
燕立昭王，而苏代、苏厉遂不敢入燕，皆终归齐，齐善待之。
苏代过魏，魏为燕执代。
齐使人谓魏王曰： 齐请以宋地封泾阳君，秦必不受。
translation: 
He attacked the Chu State in the south for five years, and all the wealth he had accumulated was exhausted; the Qin State had troubled the west for many years, and his soldiers were exhausted; he fought in the north against the Yan State, and only captured two generals at the cost of annihilating the three armies.
However, the remaining troops must be mobilized to attack the Song Dynasty southward with 5,000 chariots and annex twelve small vassal states.
This is the desire of their king, but their people's power has been exhausted, how can they do it?
Moreover, I have heard that if the war continues for too long, the people will become tired and tired, and if the war lasts for too long, the soldiers will be exhausted.
King Yan said: I heard that the Qi State has Qingji and Zhuohe Rivers that can be used for defense, and the Great Wall and Jufeng can be used as fortresses. Is this true?
Su Dai replied: If the weather does not give him a favorable opportunity, how can he hold on even if there are Qingji and Zhuohe?
The people are tired and tired. Even if there is a Great Wall and a fortification, how can it become a fortress?
Moreover, in the past, the purpose of not levying troops west of Jizhou was to guard against the invasion of Zhao, and the purpose of not levying troops north of Luohe was to guard against the invasion of Yan.
Now, the troops in Jixi and Hebei have been drafted into the war, and the defense forces within the territory are already very weak.
An arrogant king must be profit-loving, and his ministers must be greedy for money.
If the king could not be ashamed of taking his nephew and brother as a hostage and use pearls, jade, and cloth to bribe the cronies of the King of Qi, then the King of Qi would be friendly to the State of Yan and rashly send troops to destroy the State of Song. Then, in this way, the State of Qi would be destroyed.
King Yan said: Finally, with you, I am destined to destroy Qi.
The State of Yan sent a young man to Qi State to serve as a hostage.
Su Li also took advantage of the opportunity of Yan State to send hostages to ask for an audience with the King of Qi.
The King of Qi resented Su Qin and planned to imprison Su Li.
The proton of the State of Yan pleaded guilty in front of the King of Qi on his behalf, and then Su Li committed himself to becoming a minister of the State of Qi.
The prime minister of Yan State, Zizhi, was married to Su Dai. Zizhi wanted to seize the power of Yan State, so he sent Su Dai to Qi State to serve the young master who was the hostage.
King Qi sent Su Dai back to Yan to resume his duties. King Yan asked, "Maybe King Qi is going to dominate?"
Su Dai replied: Impossible.
King Yan said: Why?
Su Dai replied: The King of Qi does not trust his ministers.
As a result, the King of Yan devoted himself to Zi Zhi, and soon gave up the throne to Zi Zhi. As a result, the Yan Kingdom was in chaos.
The State of Qi took the opportunity to attack the State of Yan and killed King Kuai and Zizhi of Yan.
The State of Yan supported King Zhao on the throne, but Su Dai and Su Li no longer dared to return to the State of Yan. In the end, they all surrendered to the State of Qi, and the King of Qi treated them friendly.
Su Dai passed through Wei State, and Wei State arrested Su Dai on behalf of Yan State.
The King of Qi sent someone to tell the King of Wei: Qi wants to entrust Song Dynasty to the King of Qin’s younger brother Jingyang Jun, but the King of Qin will definitely refuse to accept it.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
秦非不利有齐而得宋地也，不信齐王与苏子也。
今齐魏不和如此其甚，则齐不欺秦。
秦信齐，齐秦合，泾阳君有宋地，非魏之利也。
故王不如东苏子，秦必疑齐而不信苏子矣。
齐秦不合，天下无变，伐齐之形成矣。
於是出苏代。代之宋，宋善待之。
齐伐宋，宋急，苏代乃遗燕昭王书曰：
夫列在万乘而寄质於齐，名卑而权轻；奉万乘助齐伐宋，民劳而实费；夫破宋，残楚淮北，肥大齐，雠彊而国害：此三者皆国之大败也。
然且王行之者，将以取信於齐也。
齐加不信於王，而忌燕愈甚，是王之计过矣。
夫以宋加之淮北，强万乘之国也，而齐并之，是益一齐也。
北夷方七百里，加之以鲁、卫，彊万乘之国也，而齐并之，是益二齐也。
夫一齐之彊，燕犹狼顾而不能支，今以三齐临燕，其祸必大矣。
虽然，智者举事，因祸为福，转败为功。
齐紫，败素也，而贾十倍；越王勾践栖於会稽，复残彊吴而霸天下：此皆因祸为福，转败为功者也。
今王若欲因祸为福，转败为功，则莫若挑霸齐而尊之，使使盟於周室，焚秦符，曰 其大上计，破秦；其次，必长宾之 。
秦挟宾以待破，秦王必患之。
秦五世伐诸侯，今为齐下，秦王之志苟得穷齐，不惮以国为功。
然则王何不使辩士以此言说秦王曰： 燕、赵破宋肥齐，尊之为之下者，燕、赵非利之也。
燕、赵不利而势为之者，以不信秦王也。
然则王何不使可信者接收燕、赵，令泾阳君、高陵君先於燕、赵？
秦有变，因以为质，则燕、赵信秦。
秦为西帝，燕为北帝，赵为中帝，立三帝以令於天下。
韩、魏不听则秦伐之，齐不听则燕、赵伐之，天下孰敢不听？
天下服听，因驱韩、魏以伐齐，曰 必反宋地，归楚淮北 。
反宋地，归楚淮北，燕、赵之所利也；并立三帝，燕、赵之所原也。
夫实得所利，尊得所原，燕、赵弃齐如脱鵕矣。
今不收燕、赵，齐霸必成。
诸侯赞齐而王不从，是国伐也；诸侯赞齐而王从之，是名卑也。
今收燕、赵，国安而名尊；不收燕、赵，国危而名卑。
夫去尊安而取危卑，智者不为也。
translation: 
It wasn't that King Qin didn't want Qi's assistance to seize Song's land, but that he didn't trust King Qi and Mr. Su.
Now that the conflict between Qi and Wei has reached such a serious level, Qi will not deceive Qin.
Qin will also trust Qi. If Qi and Qin unite, Jingyang Lord will get the land of Song. This is not a thing that is beneficial to Wei.
Therefore, it is better for the king to let Mr. Su return to Qi State. King Qin will definitely doubt King Qi and not trust Mr. Su.
If Qi and Qin cannot unite, there will be no major changes in the situation of the world, and the situation of attacking Qi will be formed.
So the State of Wei released Su Dai, and when Su Dai arrived in the State of Song, the King of Song treated him friendly.
Qi State attacked Song State, and Song State was in danger. Su Dai wrote a letter to King Yan Zhao, saying:
The Yan State was a big country listed among the Ten Thousand Cheng States, but it sent hostages to the Qi State, with a low reputation and low power; it dedicated many troops to help the Qi State attack the Song State, which made the people poor and exhausted their financial resources; even if they defeated the Song State and harmed Huaibei of the Chu State, they could only strengthen the Qi State, helping the enemy become stronger and harming their own country; these three aspects are very detrimental to the Yan State.
Despite this, the king continued to do this in order to gain the trust of Qi.
Qi State is even more distrustful of the king, and its hatred of Yan State is getting deeper and deeper. This shows that the king's strategy is wrong.
Adding the Song State and Chu State Huaibei together, it is worth a powerful Wancheng state, and Qi State's annexation of it is equivalent to benefiting Qi State from doubling its national strength.
Beiyi stretches seven hundred miles across, and if you add Lu and Wei, it is worth a powerful Wancheng country.
Qi State annexed them, which is equivalent to benefiting Qi State from doubling its national strength. A powerful Qi State, Yan State is too worried to support. Now that the powerful power of three Qi States is pressed on Yan State, the disaster must be serious.
Even so, a wise person can turn disaster into good fortune and failure into success.
Qi's purple cloth, which was originally dyed from shabby white silk, could increase its price tenfold; King Gou Jian of Yue was trapped on Kuaiji Mountain, but he defeated the powerful Wu and dominated the world; these are all examples of turning disaster into good fortune and turning failure into success.
Now, if the king wants to turn disaster into good luck and failure into success, he should encourage all countries to respect Qi as the overlord, send envoys to the Zhou royal family to openly form alliances, burn Qin's talismans, and declare: The best strategy is to conquer Qin; the second is to exclude it forever.
The Qin State was rejected by all countries and faced the threat of being conquered. The King of Qin must be worried about this.
The Qin State has taken the initiative to attack various vassal states for five consecutive generations, but now it has succumbed to the Qi State. According to the will of the King of Qin, if he can force the Qi State to be desperate, he is not afraid to bet the entire country in order to achieve success.
In this case, why doesn't the king send lobbyists to persuade the King of Qin with these words: Yan and Zhao defeated the Song State and strengthened the Qi State. Everyone respected him and became his subordinates. Yan and Zhao did not benefit.
The reason why Yan and Zhao did not get any benefit but still did this was because they did not trust King Qin.
In this case, why doesn't the king send a trustworthy person to collude with Yan and Zhao and let Lord Jingyang and Lord Gaoling go to Yan and Zhao first?
If Qin betrays its trust, it will use them as hostages, so that Yan and Zhao will trust Qin.
In this way, Qin was proclaimed emperor in the west, Yan was proclaimed emperor in the north, and Zhao was proclaimed emperor in the middle, establishing three emperors to issue orders in the world.
If South Korea and Wei do not obey, then Qin will send troops to attack it. If Qi does not obey, then Yan and Zhao will send troops to attack it. In this way, who in the world dares to disobey?
The whole world obeyed, so they took advantage of the situation and ordered Han and Wei to attack Qi, saying: The lost territory of Song must be handed over and Huaibei of Chu must be returned.
Handing over the lost land of the Song State and returning Huaibei to the Chu State would be beneficial to both Yan and Zhao; and establishing three emperors simultaneously would also be a matter of great joy for Yan and Zhao.
They actually got benefits and got their wish in terms of status, so it would be as easy for Yan and Zhao to abandon Qi as to throw off their slippers.
Now if you don't collude with Yan and Zhao, then the situation of Qi's hegemony will definitely form.
If the princes all support the state of Qi but you disobey, you will be attacked by the princes of all countries; if the princes all support the state of Qi but you obey it, your reputation will be reduced.
Now, if you collude with Yan and Zhao, the country will be stable and its reputation will be respected; if you do not collude with Yan and Zhao, the country will be in danger and its reputation will be reduced.
A wise person would not do this if he abandons the honor of national security and chooses national danger and reputation.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
秦王闻若说，必若刺心然。
则王何不使辩士以此若言说秦？
秦必取，齐必伐矣。
夫取秦，厚交也；伐齐，正利也。
尊厚交，务正利，圣王之事也。
燕昭王善其书，曰： 先人尝有德苏氏，子之之乱而苏氏去燕。燕欲报仇於齐，非苏氏莫可。
乃召苏代，复善待之，与谋伐齐。
竟破齐，湣王出走。
久之，秦召燕王，燕王欲往，苏代约燕王曰： 楚得枳而国亡，齐得宋而国亡，齐、楚不得以有枳、宋而事秦者，何也？
则有功者，秦之深雠也。
秦取天下，非行义也，暴也。
秦之行暴，正告天下。
告楚曰： 蜀地之甲，乘船浮於汶，乘夏水而下江，五日而至郢。
汉中之甲，乘船出於巴，乘夏水而下汉，四日而至五渚。
寡人积甲宛东下随，智者不及谋，勇土不及怒，寡人如射隼矣。
王乃欲待天下之攻函谷，不亦远乎！
楚王为是故，十七年事秦。
秦正告韩曰： 我起乎少曲，一日而断大行。
我起乎宜阳而触平阳，二日而莫不尽繇。
我离两周而触郑，五日而国举。
韩氏以为然，故事秦。
秦正告魏曰： 我举安邑，塞女戟，韩氏太原卷。
我下轵，道南阳，封冀，包两周。乘夏水，浮轻舟，彊弩在前，錟戈在後，决荥口，魏无大梁；决白马之口，魏无外黄、济阳；决宿胥之口，魏无虚、顿丘。
陆攻则击河内，水攻则灭大梁。
魏氏以为然，故事秦。
秦欲攻安邑，恐齐救之，则以宋委於齐。
曰： 宋王无道，为木人以寡人，射其面。寡人地绝兵远，不能攻也。
王苟能破宋有之，寡人如自得之。
translation: 
After hearing these words, King Qin must have felt like a dagger piercing his heart.
So why didn't the king send lobbyists to use these words to lobby the King of Qin?
The King of Qin will definitely adopt it after hearing it, and Qi will definitely be attacked.
Making friends with Qin is a beneficial diplomacy; attacking Qi is a legitimate interest.
Pursuing a favorable foreign policy and pursuing legitimate interests is what the Holy King does.
King Zhao of Yan thought that the letter he wrote was very good, so he said: The former king was kind to the Su family. Later, because of Zi Zhi's troubles, the Su family left the Yan State. If the Yan State wanted to take revenge on the Qi State, the Su family had to be the one.
So he recalled Su Dai, treated him well, and planned with him to attack Qi.
Finally defeated Qi State and forced King Qi Min to flee Qi State.
After a long time, the State of Qin invited King Yan, and King Yan wanted to go. The Su Dynasty stopped King Yan and said: The State of Chu was greedy for the land of Zhi, which led to the country's peril, and the State of Qi seized the land of Song, which led to the ruin of the country. Qi and Chu could not serve Qin just because they had Zhi and Song. Why?
That's because any successful country is Qin's most hated enemy.
Qin conquered the world not by enforcing justice, but by using violence.
Qin's violence was openly announced to the world.
He once warned the Chu State: The army of Shu is floating on the Wen River in boats, taking advantage of the strong water in summer to go straight down the Yangtze River, and can reach the capital of Ying in five days.
The Hanzhong army set out from the Bajiang River in boats and took advantage of the swollen water in summer to go straight down the Hanjiang River. They could reach Wuzhu in four days.
I personally gathered an army in Wandong and marched directly to follow the city. The smart people had no time to make suggestions and the brave people had no time to get angry. I attacked you as quickly as I shot down an eagle.
And King Chu, you still want to wait for all the countries in the world to attack Hangu Pass, isn't it too far away?
It was for this reason that the King of Chu served Qin for seventeen years.
Qin also sternly warned South Korea: My army sets out from Shaoqu and can cut off the passage of Taihang Mountain within one day.
My army set out from Yiyang and attacked Pingyang directly. Within two days, the situation in all parts of Korea was unshakable.
My army will attack Xinzheng through two weeks from east to west, and within five days, I will conquer all of Korea.
South Korea believed that what he said was reasonable, so he served Qin.
The state of Qin also sternly warned the state of Wei: My army conquered Anyi and besieged Nuji, and Taiyuan of South Korea was cut off.
My army went straight down the Zhi Road, passed through Nanyang, blockaded Jiyi, and surrounded the east and west for two weeks. Taking advantage of the strong water in summer, I drove light warships, with strong crossbows in front and sharp spears in the back, to dig open the mouth of Xingze Water, the main beam of Wei State If the mouth of the Baima River is dug, Waihuang and Jiyang of Wei will be swallowed by the floods and cease to exist; if the mouth of the Suxu River is dug, Xudi and Dunqiu of Wei will be flooded and cease to exist.
When fighting on land, attack Hanoi, and use water attacks to destroy beams.
The State of Wei believed that what he said was reasonable, so he served the State of Qin.
Qin planned to attack Anyi and was worried that Qi would rescue it, so it promised the land of Song to Qi.
Said: The King of Song was ignorant, so he made a wooden man that looked like me, and shot it in the face with arrows. My country was cut off from Song, and the army was too far away from Song to attack it directly.
King Qi, if you can defeat the Song State and take it as your own, you will be as happy as I would be if I took it for myself.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
已得安邑，塞女戟，因以破宋为齐罪。
秦欲攻韩，恐天下救之，则以齐委於天下。曰： 齐王四与寡人约，四欺寡人，必率天下以攻寡人者三。
有齐无秦，有秦无齐，必伐之，必亡之。
已得宜阳、少曲，致蔺、石，因以破齐为天下罪。 秦欲攻魏重楚，则以南阳委於楚。
曰： 寡人固与韩且绝矣。
残均陵，塞鄳戹，苟利於楚，寡人如自有之。
魏弃与国而合於秦，因以塞鄳戹为楚罪。
兵困於林中，重燕、赵，以胶东委於燕，以济西委於赵。
已得讲於魏，至公子延，因犀首属行而攻赵。
兵伤於谯石，而遇败於阳马，而重魏，则以叶、蔡委於魏。
已得讲於赵，则劫魏，不为割。
困则使太后弟穰侯为和，嬴则兼欺舅与母。
適燕者曰 以胶东 ，適赵者曰 以济西 ，適魏者曰 以叶、蔡 ，適楚者曰 以塞鄳戹 ，適齐者曰 以宋 ，此必令言如循环，用兵如刺蜚，母不能制，舅不能约。 龙贾之战，岸门之战，封陵之战，高商之战，赵庄之战，秦之所杀三晋之民数百万，今其生者皆死秦之孤也。西河之外，上雒之地，三川晋国之祸，三晋之半，秦祸如此其大也。
而燕、赵之秦者，皆以争事秦说其主，此臣之所大患也。
燕昭王不行。苏代复重於燕。
燕使约诸侯从亲如苏秦时，或从或不，而天下由此宗苏氏之从约。
代、厉皆以寿死，名显诸侯。
太史公曰：苏秦兄弟三人，皆游说诸侯以显名，其术长於权变。
而苏秦被反间以死，天下共笑之，讳学其术。
然世言苏秦多异，异时事有类之者皆附之苏秦。
夫苏秦起闾阎，连六国从亲，此其智有过人者。吾故列其行事，次其时序，毋令独蒙恶声焉。
translation: 
Later, the Qin State captured Anyi of the Wei State and besieged Nuji. Instead, it regarded the defeat of the Song State as Qi's crime.
Qin planned to attack South Korea and was worried that the princes of the world would rescue it, so it promised Qi to the princes of the world to attack it, saying: The king of Qi made an alliance with me four times, deceived me four times, and resolutely led the army of the world to attack our country, many times.
As long as Qi exists, there will be no Qin. As long as Qin exists, there will be no Qi. It must be conquered and destroyed.
When the Qin State captured Yiyang and Shaoqu in South Korea and conquered Linyi and Lishi, it regarded defeating the Qi State as a sin among the vassal states in the world. Qin planned to attack Wei, so he first respected Chu and promised Nanyang to Chu.
Said: I had already severed ties with South Korea.
If it is beneficial to the state of Chu to destroy Junling and besiege it, then I will be as happy as if I had it.
When the state of Wei abandoned the alliance and joined forces with the state of Qin, the state of Qin charged Chu with siege.
Qin's army was trapped in the forest, so he respected Yan and Zhao, and promised Jiaodong to Yan and Jixi to Zhao.
When Qin and Wei reconciled, they took Gongzi Yan as a hostage and used rhinoceros troops to attack Zhao one after another.
Qin's army suffered heavy losses at Qiaoshi and was defeated at Yangma, so he respected Wei and granted the land of Ye and Cai to Wei.
After he reconciled with Zhao, he threatened Wei and refused to divide the land as agreed.
When the Qin army was in trouble, they sent the Queen Mother's brother Ranghou to make peace. When he won, even his uncle and mother were deceived.
Outside Xihe, the Shangluo area and Sanchuan area are often attacked by the Qin State. This is a disaster for the Jin State!
The Qin State invaded half of the land of Han, Zhao, and Wei. The disasters caused by the Qin State were so serious! However, people from Yan, Zhao and other countries who went to Qin to persuade their kings tried to persuade their own monarchs by serving Qin. This is something that worries me very much.
King Yan Zhao did not go to Qin, and Su Dai was reused by King Yan again.
The King of Yan sent Su Dai to contact the various countries to unite and establish a blind date. Just like when Su Qin was alive, some princes joined the alliance and some did not. People from all over the world respected the alliance advocated by Su Qin from then on.
Both Su Dai and Su Li lived to a very old age, and their reputations became prominent in various vassal states.
Tai Shigong said: The three brothers Su and Qin are famous all over the world for lobbying the princes. Their theories are good at maneuvering and maneuvering.
However, Su Qin was killed on the charge of counter-intentional conspiracy. Everyone in the world laughed at him and tabooed the study of his teachings.
However, there are many differences in the deeds of Su Qin circulated in society. All deeds similar to Su Qin in different periods are attached to Su Qin.
Su Qin was born among the common people, but he was able to unite six countries and have a blind date. This shows that his intelligence is beyond ordinary people. Therefore, I will list his experiences and state them in the correct chronological order, so as not to let him only suffer a bad reputation.


