Chunk 0: 
original: 
乐毅者，其先祖曰乐羊。
乐羊为魏文侯将，伐取中山，魏文侯封乐羊以灵寿。
乐羊死，葬於灵寿，其後子孙因家焉。
中山复国，至赵武灵王时复灭中山，而乐氏後有乐毅。
乐毅贤，好兵，赵人举之。
及武灵王有沙丘之乱，乃去赵適魏。
闻燕昭王以子之之乱而齐大败燕，燕昭王怨齐，未尝一日而忘报齐也。
燕国小，辟远，力不能制，於是屈身下士，先礼郭隗以招贤者。
乐毅於是为魏昭王使於燕，燕王以客礼待之。
乐毅辞让，遂委质为臣，燕昭王以为亚卿，久之。
translation: 
Le Yi, his ancestor was named Le Yang.
Leyang once served as the general of Wei Wenhou and once led troops to capture the Zhongshan Kingdom. Wei Wenhou gave Lingshou as a fief to Leyang.
After Le Yang died, he was buried in Lingshou, and his descendants settled there.
Later, Zhongshan was restored to the state, and it was destroyed by King Wuling of Zhao, and the descendants of the Le family gave birth to a famous man named Le Yi.
Le Yi was a virtuous man who loved military affairs. The people of Zhao once recommended him to serve as an official.
After King Wu Ling was besieged and starved to death in his palace in the sand dunes, he left Zhao and went to Wei.
Later, he heard that King Yan Zhao was defeated by Qi due to the chaos in Yan State due to his son's rule. Therefore, King Yan Zhao hated Qi State and never forgot to take revenge on Qi State.
The State of Yan was a weak country, located in a remote area, and its national power could not defeat the enemy, so King Zhao of Yan lowered his status and treated virtuous corporals. He first treated Guo Wei with thoughtful etiquette, so as to recruit more virtuous people.
At this time, Le Yi came to Yan State as an envoy for King Zhao of Wei, and King Yan received him with the courtesy of a guest.
Le Yi refused to give in, and finally presented a gift to King Yan Zhao to express his willingness to dedicate himself as a minister. King Yan Zhao appointed him as Yaqing, a position he held for a long time.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
当是时，齐湣王彊，南败楚相唐眛於重丘，西摧三晋於观津，遂与三晋击秦，助赵灭中山，破宋，广地千馀里。
与秦昭王争重为帝，已而复归之。
诸侯皆欲背秦而服於齐。
湣王自矜，百姓弗堪。
於是燕昭王问伐齐之事。
乐毅对曰： 齐，霸国之馀业也，地大人众，未易独攻也。
王必欲伐之，莫如与赵及楚、魏。
於是使乐毅约赵惠文王，别使连楚、魏，令赵嚪说秦以伐齐之利。
诸侯害齐湣王之骄暴，皆争合从与燕伐齐。
乐毅还报，燕昭王悉起兵，使乐毅为上将军，赵惠文王以相国印授乐毅。
乐毅於是并护赵、楚、韩、魏、燕之兵以伐齐，破之济西。
translation: 
At that time, King Min of Qi was very powerful. In the south, he defeated Chu Prime Minister Tang Wei at Chongqiu, and in the west, he defeated Wei and Zhao at Guanjin. He then united with Han, Zhao and Wei to attack Qin. He also helped Zhao to destroy Zhongshan and defeated Song, which increased Qi's territory by more than a thousand miles.
He and King Zhao of Qin jointly fought for the title of emperor. Soon after, he canceled the title of Eastern Emperor on his own and still claimed the title of king.
All the vassal states planned to desert Qin and submit to Qi.
However, King Qi Min was very arrogant and arrogant, and the people could no longer tolerate it.
King Yan Zhao thought that the opportunity to attack Qi had come, so he asked Le Yi about attacking Qi.
Le Yi replied: Qi State was originally a hegemonic country and still retains its foundation. This country has a vast land and a large population. We cannot easily attack it alone.
If the king must attack it, it is better to unite Zhao, Chu and Wei to attack it.
So King Yan Zhao sent Le Yi to form an alliance and treaty with King Zhao Huiwen, and also sent envoys to unite Chu and Wei, and asked Zhao to persuade Qin with the benefit of attacking Qi.
Because the princes believed that King Qi Min was arrogant and tyrannical, which would eventually be harmful to them, they all rushed to join forces with Yan to attack Qi.
Le Yi came back to report on his mission. King Yan Zhao mobilized the country's troops and sent Le Yi as general. King Zhao Huiwen awarded Le Yi the seal of the Prime Minister.
Le Yi then unified the armies of Zhao, Chu, Han, Wei, and Yan to attack Qi, and defeated the Qi army west of Jishui.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
诸侯兵罢归，而燕军乐毅独追，至于临菑。
齐湣王之败济西，亡走，保於莒。
乐毅独留徇齐，齐皆城守。
乐毅攻入临菑，尽取齐宝财物祭器输之燕。
燕昭王大说，亲至济上劳军，行赏飨士，封乐毅於昌国，号为昌国君。
於是燕昭王收齐卤获以归，而使乐毅复以兵平齐城之不下者。
乐毅留徇齐五岁，下齐七十馀城，皆为郡县以属燕，唯独莒、即墨未服。
会燕昭王死，子立为燕惠王。
惠王自为太子时尝不快於乐毅，及即位，齐之田单闻之，乃纵反间於燕，曰： 齐城不下者两城耳。
然所以不早拔者，闻乐毅与燕新王有隙，欲连兵且留齐，南面而王齐。
齐之所患，唯恐他将之来。
於是燕惠王固已疑乐毅，得齐反间，乃使骑劫代将，而召乐毅。
乐毅知燕惠王之不善代之，畏诛，遂西降赵。
赵封乐毅於观津，号曰望诸君。
尊宠乐毅以警动於燕、齐。
齐田单後与骑劫战，果设诈诳燕军，遂破骑劫於即墨下，而转战逐燕，北至河上，尽复得齐城，而迎襄王於莒，入于临菑。
燕惠王後悔使骑劫代乐毅，以故破军亡将失齐；又怨乐毅之降赵，恐赵用乐毅而乘燕之弊以伐燕。
燕惠王乃使人让乐毅，且谢之曰： 先王举国而委将军，将军为燕破齐，报先王之雠，天下莫不震动，寡人岂敢一日而忘将军之功哉！
translation: 
At this time, the armies of various princes stopped attacking and retreated to their own countries. The Yan army, under the command of Le Yi, pursued the fleeing enemy alone until they reached Linzi, the capital of Qi.
After King Min of Qi was defeated west of Jishui, he fled to Juyi and held the city.
Le Yi stayed alone and led troops to patrol the occupied areas. All the cities in Qi State held fast and refused to surrender.
Le Yi concentrated his forces to attack Linzi. After taking Linzi, he seized all the treasures and property of Qi and the ritual objects of the ancestral temple and transported them to Yan.
King Yan Zhao was overjoyed and rushed to the shore of Jishui to express his condolences to the army. He rewarded and rewarded the soldiers with wine and meat. He granted the Chang Kingdom to Leyi and named him the King of Chang Kingdom.
At that time, King Yan Zhao brought the spoils captured in Qi State back to Yan State, and asked Le Yi to continue to lead troops to attack the Qi State cities that had not yet been captured.
Le Yi stayed in the Qi State for five years and patrolled and fought. He captured more than 70 cities and towns in the Qi State. They were all classified as counties and belonged to the Yan State. Only Ju and Jimo were not conquered.
At this time, King Zhao of Yan died, and his son became King Hui of Yan.
King Hui had been dissatisfied with Le Yi since he was the crown prince. After he came to the throne, Tian Dan of Qi State learned that he had conflicts with Le Yi, so he implemented counterintuitive tactics against Yan State and spread rumors that there were only two cities in Qi State that were not captured.
The reason for the delay in conquering was said to be that Le Yi had a grudge against the new king of Yan State. Le Yi used troops intermittently to deliberately delay the time and stay in Qi State, preparing to proclaim himself king in Qi State.
What the people of Qi were most worried about was that King Yan would send a general to replace Le Yi.
At that time, King Yan Hui had already suspected Le Yi, and was provoked by Qi's counterintuitive plot, so he sent Qi Jie to replace Le Yi as general and recalled Le Yi.
Le Yi knew in his heart that King Yan Hui had bad intentions in sending someone to replace him. He was afraid that he would be killed when he returned home, so he went west and surrendered to Zhao.
The State of Zhao granted the place of Guanjin to Le Yi, with the title Wangzhujun.
The State of Zhao respected Le Yi very much and used it as a favor to shock and intimidate the States of Yan and Qi.
Tian Dan of the Qi State later fought against the Qi Jie, and he indeed set up a trap to confuse the Yan army. As a result, the Qi Jie army was defeated at the gate of Jimo City. He then chased the Yan army in many battles and chased north to the Yellow River. He recovered all the cities of the Qi State and welcomed King Xiang of Qi back to the capital Linzi from Juyi.
King Yan Hui regretted that he sent cavalry to replace Le Yi, which caused the Yan army to be defeated and lost the captured land of Qi. However, he also resented Le Yi for surrendering to Zhao and worried that Zhao would use Le Yi to take advantage of Yan's defeat and fatigue to attack Yan.
King Yan Hui sent someone to Zhao to blame Le Yi and apologize to him, saying: The late king entrusted the entire Yan State to the general. The general defeated Qi for the Yan State and avenged the late king. Everyone in the world was shocked. How can I dare to forget the general's achievements one day!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
会先王弃群臣，寡人新即位，左右误寡人。
寡人之使骑劫代将军，为将军久暴露於外，故召将军且休，计事。
将军过听，以与寡人有隙，遂捐燕归赵。
将军自为计则可矣，而亦何以报先王之所以遇将军之意乎？
乐毅报遗燕惠王书曰：
臣不佞，不能奉承王命，以顺左右之心，恐伤先王之明，有害足下之义，故遁逃走赵。
今足下使人数之以罪，臣恐侍御者不察先王之所以畜幸臣之理，又不白臣之所以事先王之心，故敢以书对。
臣闻贤圣之君不以禄私亲，其功多者赏之，其能当者处之。
故察能而授官者，成功之君也；论行而结交者，立名之士也。
臣窃观先王之举也，见有高世主之心，故假节於魏，以身得察於燕。
先王过举，厕之宾客之中，立之群臣之上，不谋父兄，以为亚卿。
臣窃不自知，自以为奉令承教，可幸无罪，故受令而不辞。
translation: 
Just when the late king passed away, I came to the throne for the first time, but the people around me delayed me.
The reason why I sent the cavalry to replace the general is because the general has been away from home all year round and slept in the open air. Therefore, I recalled the general to rest for a while and discuss the government affairs together.
I didn't want the general to misunderstand the rumors and think that there was something incompatible with me, so he abandoned the state of Yan and joined the state of Zhao.
It's okay for the general to plan for himself, but how can he cope with the deep affection that the late king showed towards the general?
Le Yi wrote a reply to King Hui, saying:
I am incapable of obeying your orders and obeying the wishes of those around you. I am afraid that something unexpected will happen when I return home, which will damage the wisdom of the late king and your moral character. Therefore, I ran away from Qi and defected to Zhao.
Now you have sent someone to accuse me of my sins. I am afraid that the late king's attendants cannot understand the reason why the late king took me in and favored me, and they are not clear about my sincerity in serving the former king, so I take the liberty to answer your question with a letter.
I have heard that a wise and capable monarch will not reward those close to him with titles and salaries, but will reward those who have made more achievements and promote those who are capable.
Therefore, those who examine talents and then grant official positions are monarchs who can achieve great achievements. A person who makes friends only after measuring his character is a wise man who can build up his reputation.
I secretly observed the behavior of the late king and saw that he had ambitions that were beyond ordinary monarchs, so I took advantage of the opportunity of being an envoy to the State of Wei to go to the State of Yan to offer myself for inspection.
The late king paid special tribute to me. He first included me among the guests, and then selected me to be higher than the other ministers. He appointed me as Yaqing without consulting the elders in the royal family.
I also lacked self-awareness. I thought that as long as I carried out orders and accepted instruction, I would be able to avoid committing crimes, so I accepted the appointment without refusing.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
先王命之曰： 我有积怨深怒於齐，不量轻弱，而欲以齐为事。
臣曰： 夫齐，霸国之馀业而最胜之遗事也。
练於兵甲，习於战攻。
王若欲伐之，必与天下图之。
与天下图之，莫若结於赵。
且又淮北、宋地，楚魏之所欲也，赵若许而约四国攻之，齐可大破也。
先王以为然，具符节南使臣於赵。
顾反命，起兵击齐。
以天之道，先王之灵，河北之地随先王而举之济上。
济上之军受命击齐，大败齐人。
轻卒锐兵，长驱至国。
齐王遁而走莒，仅以身免；珠玉财宝车甲珍器尽收入于燕。
齐器设於宁台，大吕陈於元英，故鼎反乎室，蓟丘之植植於汶篁，自五伯已来，功未有及先王者也。
translation: 
The late king instructed me: I have accumulated hatred against Qi for a long time. I hate Qi deeply. I don't care about the weakness of Yan, but I want to take revenge on Qi as my own business.
I said: That Qi State still retains the foundation of a hegemony, and has the experience of winning many battles.
The soldiers are well-trained and proficient in offensive strategies.
If the king wants to attack it, he must unite with the princes of the world to plot it.
If you want to plot with the princes of the world, there is no one more suitable than Zhao State.
Moreover, Huaibei and the area that originally belonged to the Song State were areas that Chu and Wei wanted respectively. If Zhao agreed to form an alliance, they would make an appointment with the four countries to jointly attack it, so that Qi State could be completely defeated.
The late king thought that my idea was right, so he prepared a talisman and sent me south to the State of Zhao.
Soon I returned to my country and resumed my duties, and immediately sent troops to attack Qi.
Relying on the guidance of heaven and the divine power of the late king, the armies of Zhao and Wei in the area north of the Yellow River all arrived on the shore of Jishui along with the late king.
The troops on the shore of Jishui accepted the order to attack the Qi army and defeated the Qi people.
Our brisk elite troops marched straight into the capital of Qi.
The King of Qi fled to Juyi alone, and he was the only one who escaped death. All the jewels, jade, chariots, armor, and precious sacrificial artifacts were seized and sent back to the State of Yan.
The sacrificial utensils of Qi State are displayed in Ningtai, and the Dalu Bell is displayed in Yuanying Hall; the original treasure tripod of Yan State that was plundered by Qi State was taken from Qi State and returned to the Qing Room. Among the plants in Jiqiu are bamboos transplanted from Wenshui of Qi State. Since the Five Hegemons, their achievements have not caught up with those of the previous kings.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
先王以为慊於志，故裂地而封之，使得比小国诸侯。
臣窃不自知，自以为奉命承教，可幸无罪，是以受命不辞。
臣闻贤圣之君，功立而不废，故著於春秋；蚤知之士，名成而不毁，故称於後世。若先王之报怨雪耻，夷万乘之彊国，收八百岁之蓄积，及至弃群臣之日，馀教未衰，执政任事之臣，脩法令，慎庶孽，施及乎萌隶，皆可以教後世。
臣闻之，善作者不必善成，善始者不必善终。
昔伍子胥说听於阖闾，而吴王远迹至郢；夫差弗是也，赐之鸱夷而浮之江。
吴王不寤先论之可以立功，故沈子胥而不悔；子胥不蚤见主之不同量，是以至於入江而不化。
夫免身立功，以明先王之迹，臣之上计也。
离毁辱之诽谤，堕先王之名，臣之所大恐也。
临不测之罪，以幸为利，义之所不敢出也。
臣闻古之君子，交绝不出恶声；忠臣去国，不絜其名。
臣虽不佞，数奉教於君子矣。
恐侍御者之亲左右之说，不察疏远之行，故敢献书以闻，唯君王之留意焉。
translation: 
The late king thought that his ambition had been fulfilled, so he set aside a place to reward me so that I could compare with the princes of small countries.
I have heard that a wise and wise monarch builds his achievements without neglecting them, so he can be written in history books such as the Spring and Autumn Annals; a wise man with far-sightedness will not let his reputation deteriorate after he has gained it, so he can be praised by future generations.
Revenge like the previous king did, pacify a powerful country with tens of thousands of chariots, seize the precious treasures accumulated by the Qi Kingdom for more than 800 years, and wait until the day of the death of the previous king to leave political instructions and instructions to ministers in power, revise laws, treat the children of the common people with caution, and extend the kindness to the common people. These can be used to teach future generations.
I have heard this saying that those who are good at pioneering may not necessarily be good at maintaining success, and those who are good at beginning may not necessarily have a good ending.
Once upon a time, Wu Zixu's idea was adopted by King Helu of Wu, who led troops to attack the capital of Chu State Ying. King Wu Fuchai did not accept Wu Zixu's correct advice, but gave him a horse-leather bag to force him to commit suicide, put his bones in the bag and threw him to the river.
King Wu Fuchai didn't understand that Wu Zixu's previous ideas could build merit, so he sank Wu Zixu into the river without regretting it. Wu Zixu also couldn't foresee that monarchs had different temperaments and ambitions, so he was sunk into the river and died with his eyes open.
It is my best policy to avoid being killed and to build meritorious deeds so that the achievements of the late kings can be highlighted.
Being insulted or even slandered, and ruining the reputation of the late king, this is what I fear most.
Facing an unpredictable crime, taking the chance of being spared from death as an opportunity for personal gain is something that a person who abides by morality would not dare to do.
I have heard that gentlemen in ancient times did not speak ill of others when they cut off contact with others; loyal ministers left their original country and did not absolve themselves of their sins and grievances.
Although I have no talent, I have listened to your teachings many times.
I am afraid that you believe the slanderous words of your servant and cannot understand the reason for my alienation from you. So I dedicate this letter to tell you my feelings. I hope the king will pay attention.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
於是燕王复以乐毅子乐间为昌国君；而乐毅往来复通燕，燕、赵以为客卿。
乐毅卒於赵。
乐间居燕三十馀年，燕王喜用其相栗腹之计，欲攻赵，而问昌国君乐间。
乐间曰： 赵，四战之国也，其民习兵，伐之不可。
燕王不听，遂伐赵。
赵使廉颇击之，大破栗腹之军於鄗，禽栗腹、乐乘。
乐乘者，乐间之宗也。
於是乐间奔赵，赵遂围燕。
燕重割地以与赵和，赵乃解而去。
燕王恨不用乐间，乐间既在赵，乃遗乐间书曰： 纣之时，箕子不用，犯谏不怠，以冀其听；商容不达，身祇辱焉，以冀其变。
及民志不入，狱囚自出，然後二子退隐。
故纣负桀暴之累，二子不失忠圣之名。
何者？
其忧患之尽矣。
今寡人虽愚，不若纣之暴也；燕民虽乱，不若殷民之甚也。
室有语，不相尽，以告邻里。
二者，寡人不为君取也。
乐间、乐乘怨燕不听其计，二人卒留赵。
translation: 
So King Hui of Yan named Le Yi's son Le Jian the King of Chang State. Le Yi traveled between Zhao and Yan, and reestablished good relations with Yan. Both Yan and Zhao appointed him as a guest minister.
Le Yi died in the state of Zhao.
Lejian lived in the State of Yan for more than thirty years. The King of Yan liked to adopt the strategy of his prime minister Li Fu and planned to attack the State of Zhao, so he asked Lord Lejian of the State of Chang.
Le Jian said: Zhao is a country at war with all sides. Its people are familiar with military affairs, so it is impossible to attack it.
King Yan didn't like it, so he attacked Zhao.
Lianpo of Zhao State fought back against the Yan army, defeated Lifu's army in Hadi, and captured Lifu and Lecheng.
Lecheng and Lejian have the same ancestor.
So Lejian fled to the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao attacked the State of Yan.
Yan State ceded a lot of land to Zhao State to seek peace. Only then did Zhao Jun relieve the siege and leave.
King Yan regretted not listening to Yong Lejian's advice. Lejian was already in the state of Zhao, so he wrote a letter to Lejian saying: During the reign of King Zhou of Yin, Jizi was not appointed, but he dared to offend the king, spoke out and remonstrated without slacking off, hoping that King Zhou would listen; Shang Rong was demoted for admonishing King Zhou. He was humiliated, but he still hoped that King Zhou would change his ways.
When the people's morale was weakened, the prisoners escaped one after another, and the country was beyond hope, then the two gentlemen resigned and lived in seclusion.
Therefore, King Zhou had a bad reputation for being violent, but the two gentlemen did not lose their reputation as loyal and noble.
Why is this?
He did his best to worry about the king and the country.
Although I am stupid now, I am not as violent as Yin Zhou; although the people of Yan State are unstable, they are not as serious as the people of Yin Dynasty.
There is a saying that when there is a dispute within a family, one should not express one's own opinions, but tell one's neighbors.
I think these two approaches are undesirable.
Lejian and Lecheng resented the King of Yan for not following their plan, so they finally stayed in Zhao.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
赵封乐乘为武襄君。
其明年，乐乘、廉颇为赵围燕，燕重礼以和，乃解。
後五岁，赵孝成王卒。
襄王使乐乘代廉颇。
廉颇攻乐乘，乐乘走，廉颇亡入魏。
其後十六年而秦灭赵。
其後二十馀年，高帝过赵，问： 乐毅有後世乎？
对曰： 有乐叔。
高帝封之乐卿，号曰华成君。
华成君，乐毅之孙也。
而乐氏之族有乐瑕公、乐臣公，赵且为秦所灭，亡之齐高密。
乐臣公善修黄帝、老子之言，显闻於齐，称贤师。
太史公曰：始齐之蒯通及主父偃读乐毅之报燕王书，未尝不废书而泣也。
乐臣公学黄帝、老子，其本师号曰河上丈人，不知其所出。
河上丈人教安期生，安期生教毛翕公，毛翕公教乐瑕公，乐瑕公教乐臣公，乐臣公教盖公。
盖公教於齐高密、胶西，为曹相国师。
translation: 
Zhao Guo granted Lecheng the title of Lord Wuxiang.
The next year, Lecheng and Lian Po besieged the Yan State for the Zhao State. The Yan State asked Zhao for peace with generous gifts, and the Zhao army began to besiege the Yan State.
Five years later, King Zhao Xiaocheng died.
King Mouxiang sent Lecheng to replace Lian Po's official position.
Lian Po attacked Le Cheng, but Le Cheng fled, and Lian Po also fled to Wei.
Sixteen years later, Qin destroyed Zhao.
More than twenty years later, Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty passed by the original territory of Zhao and asked the people there: "Does Le Yi have any descendants?"
He replied: There is Uncle Le.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty gave him the title of Yueqing, and he was called Huachengjun.
Hua Chengjun is Le Yi's grandson.
The Le family also included Duke Le Xia and Duke Le Chen. They fled to Qi Gaomi when Zhao was about to be destroyed by Qin.
Duke Lechen was good at studying the theories of Huangdi and Laozi. He was very famous in Qi State, and people called him a wise teacher.
Tai Shigong said: When Kuai Tong and his father-in-law Yan read Le Yi's letter to King Yan, they couldn't help but shed tears when they put down the letter.
Lechengong studied the theories of Huangdi and Laozi. His master was called Heshang Zhangren. It is still unclear where Heshang Zhangren was from.
Heshang's father-in-law taught An Qisheng, An Qisheng taught Duke Mao Xi, Duke Mao Xi taught Duke Lexia, and Duke Lexia taught Duke Lechen. Le Chen taught Gai Gong.
Gaigong taught in Gaomi and Jiaoxi areas of Qidi and was Cao Xiangguo's teacher.


