Chunk 0: 
original: 
汉兴之初，反秦之敝，与民休息，凡事简易，禁罔疏阔，而相国萧、曹以宽厚清静为天下帅，民作 画一 之歌。
孝惠垂拱，高后女主，不出房闼，而天下晏然，民务稼穑，衣食滋殖。
至于文、景，遂移风易俗。
是时，循吏如河南守吴公、蜀守文翁之属，皆谨身帅先，居以廉平，不至于严，而民从化。
孝武之世，外攘四夷，内改法度，民用凋敝，奸轨不禁。
时少能以化治称者，惟江都相董仲舒、内史公孙弘、皃宽，居官可纪。
三人皆儒者，通于世务，明习文法，以经术润饰吏事，天子器之。
仲舒数谢病去，弘、宽至三公。
孝昭幼冲，霍光秉政，承奢侈师旅之后，海内虚耗，光因循守职，无所改作。
至于始元、元凤之间，匈奴乡化，百姓益富，举贤良文学，问民所疾苦，于是罢酒榷而议盐铁矣。
及至孝宣，由仄陋而登至尊，兴于闾阎，知民事之艰难。
自霍光薨后始躬万机，厉精为治，五日一听事，自丞相已下各奉职而进。
及拜刺史守相，辄亲见问，观其所由，退而考察所行以质其言，有名实不相应，必知其所以然。
常称曰： 庶民所以安其田里而亡叹息愁恨之心者，政平讼理也。
与我共此者，其唯良二千石乎！ 以为太守，吏民之本也。数变易则下不安，民知其将久，不可欺罔，乃服从其教化。
translation: 
At the beginning of the rise of the Han Dynasty, the bad governance of the Qin Dynasty was reversed, so that the people could recuperate and live, everything was simplified, and prohibitions and laws were greatly relaxed. The prime ministers Xiao He and Cao Shen became models for the world with their generous and quiet style of work. The people therefore compiled a "painting and a song" to praise them.
Emperor Hui ruled without doing anything, Empress Lu lived in seclusion in the palace, but the world was peaceful, the people concentrated on agricultural production, and there was a scene of plenty of food and clothing.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, customs changed again.
At that time, officials who were able to obey the law and obey the law, such as Wu Gong, the governor of Henan County, and Weng Weng, the governor of Shu County, were strict with themselves, set examples for others, acted honestly and justly, and could make the people obey and accept the influence without using coercion.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he resisted the barbarians from all directions externally and revised laws and regulations internally. As a result, the people were exhausted and internal strife and external troubles could not be prevented.
At that time, there were very few people who were famous for their education and governance. Only Dong Zhongshu, the Prime Minister of Jiangdu, Gongsun Hong and Ni Kuan, the internal historian, whose political performances are worthy of a book.
The three of them were all Confucian scholars, who were both proficient in the way of life and writing. They used Confucian thinking and methods to help themselves handle government affairs, and the emperor valued them very much.
Dong Zhongshu resigned from office many times due to illness, while Gongsun Hong and Ni Kuan fulfilled their duties as officials.
Emperor Zhao ascended the throne at a young age, and Huo Guang took charge of government affairs on his behalf. At this time, after years of war, domestic consumption was very high. Huo Guang followed this and abide by his duties without changing his previous practices.
In the Shiyuan and Yuanfeng years, the Xiongnu surrendered, and the people's lives gradually became richer, so they began to recommend talents, care about the people's sufferings, abolished the wine tax, and discussed the benefits of salt and iron.
When Emperor Xuan arrived, because he was an emperor who came from a humble background and started his family in an alley, he was well aware of the people's joys and sorrows.
After Huo Guang's death, he began to personally handle various court affairs and worked hard to govern. He went to court every five days to listen to government affairs and reported to the court in order from the prime minister to the other officials.
When officials such as governors, governors, and princes are conferred, they must be interviewed in person to understand their thoughts, and then their actions are examined to compare with their words. If the names are inconsistent with reality, the root cause must be found.
Emperor Xuan once said: The reason why the people can rest assured in agricultural production and eliminate the bad mood of worry and resentment is because the politics are peaceful and the law can uphold justice.
The only people who jointly guarantee this with me are those good county guards. He believes that county guards are the basis for managing officials and the people. Frequent changes will cause local unrest. When the people know that the selection of the prefect is very stable and cannot be deceived, they will obey his teachings.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
故二千石有治理效，辄以玺书勉厉，增秩赐金，或爵至关内侯，公卿缺则选诸所表以次用之。
是故汉世良吏，于是为盛，称中兴焉。
若赵广汉、韩延寿、尹翁归、严延年、张敞之属，皆称其位，然任刑罚，或抵罪诛。
王成、黄霸、朱邑、龚遂、郑弘、召信臣等，所居民富，所去见思，生有荣号，死见奉祀，此廪廪庶几德让君子之遗风矣。
文翁，庐江舒人也。
少好学，通《春秋》，以郡县吏察举。
景帝末，为蜀郡守，仁爱好教化。
见蜀地辟陋有蛮夷风，文翁欲诱进之，乃选郡县小吏开敏有材者张叔等十余人亲自饬厉，遣诣京师，受业博士，或学律令。减省少府用度，买刀布蜀物，赍计吏以遗博士。
数岁，蜀生皆成就还归，文翁以为右职，用次察举，官有至郡守刺史者。
又修起学官于成都市中，招下县子弟以为学官弟子，为除更徭，高者以补郡县吏，次为孝弟力田。
常选学官僮子，使在便坐受事。
每出行县，益从学官诸生明经饬行者与俱，使传教令，出入闺阁。
县邑吏民见而荣之，数年，争欲为学官弟子，富人至出钱以求之。
由是大化，蜀地学于京师者比齐鲁焉。
至武帝时，乃令天下郡国皆立学校官，自文翁为之始云。
文翁终于蜀，吏民为立祠堂，岁时祭祀不绝。
至今巴蜀好文雅，文翁之化也。
translation: 
Therefore, if the county governor is effective in governance, he will always issue letters to encourage him personally, increase his salary and give him a large sum of money, or confer a title to a marquis in Guannei. When the official position is vacant, he will be appointed in turn by those who have been commended.
For this reason, Xunliang officials emerged in endlessly in the Han Dynasty, which is known as the ZTE.
People such as Zhao Guanghan, Han Yanshou, Yin Wenggui, Yan Yannian, and Zhang Chang were all competent and conscientious in their duties, but they were punished and some even committed capital crimes.
Wang Cheng, Huang Ba, Zhu Yi, Gong Sui, Zheng Hong, Zhao Xinchen and others were prosperous when they were in office, but missed by the people after they left office. They were given honorary titles during their lifetimes, and were worshiped and remembered after their deaths. This kind of style may be the style of gentlemen who are benevolent and courteous.
Wen Weng was from Shu County, Lujiang County.
When he was young, he loved learning and was proficient in "Spring and Autumn". He was promoted to the imperial court as a county official.
In the last years of Emperor Jing's reign, Weng Weng served as the prefect of Shu County. He was tolerant and caring for the people, and liked to use political enlightenment to influence and govern the people of Shu County.
He saw that Shu County was located in a remote and remote border area and was affected by the backward customs of ethnic minorities, so he wanted to educate and inspire it in many aspects to make progress. So he selected more than ten people from the county officials who were enlightened, wise and talented, such as Uncle Zhang, to personally instruct and encourage them. , and sent them to the capital Chang'an, either to study Confucian classics with the doctors, or to learn laws and regulations from the officials; to reduce the expenses of the county and magistrates, buy the precious specialties of Shu, golden knives and cloth, and let the officials in charge of accounting books bring them with them when they report the situation to Beijing, and give them to the doctors.
A few years later, when the students who had been sent out to study returned to school, Wen Weng appointed them to high-level positions in the county, and successively recommended them to the court through inspections and other channels, and some of them became county governors or governors.
In addition, Wen Weng also established a school in Chengdu City, recruiting young children from counties outside Chengdu as students, exempting them from paying more taxes and corvee, and those with good academic performance supplemented the county officials, while those with poor academic performance served as filial piety, Litian and other township officials.
They often select young students from schools and let them help handle government affairs in the county government's side houses.
Whenever he went out to patrol various counties, Wen Weng always asked many students who were well versed in scriptures and of good conduct to go around with him to preach enlightenment policies and go in and out of county offices.
When the county officials and people saw this situation, they were very envious. Within a few years, everyone was vying to become a student in the school, so that wealthy families paid for the education.
From then on, enlightenment prevailed and the atmosphere in Shu County changed greatly. The number of people from Shu County studying in the capital is comparable to that of Qi, Lu and other places.
When Emperor Wu arrived, he ordered counties and counties to set up schools and relevant management officials. This was started by Wen Weng.
After Wen Wengshou returned to Shu County, the local officials and people built an ancestral hall for him, and offered sacrifices continuously during every year and festival.
To this day, the people in the Bashu region like elegance and are influenced by Wen Weng's teachings.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
王成，不知何郡人也。
为胶东相，治甚有声。
宣帝最先褒之，地节三年下诏曰： 盖闻有功不赏，有罪不诛，虽唐、虞不能以化天下。
今胶东相成，劳来不怠，流民自占八万余口，治有异等之效。
其赐成爵关内侯，秩中二千石。
未及征用，会病卒官。
后诏使丞相、御史问郡国上计长吏守丞以政令得失，或对言前胶东相成伪自增加，以蒙显赏，是后俗吏多为虚名云。
黄霸字次公，淮阳阳夏人也，以豪杰役使徙云陵。
霸少学律令，喜为吏，武帝末以待诏入钱赏官，补侍郎谒者，坐同产有罪劾免。
后复入谷沈黎郡，补左冯翊二百石卒史。
冯翊以霸入财为官，不署右职，使领郡钱谷计。
簿书正，以廉称，察补河东均输长，复察廉为河南太守丞。
霸为人明察内敏，又习文法，然温良有让，足知，善御众。
为丞，处议当于法，合人心，太守甚任之，吏民爱敬焉。
自武帝末，用法深。
昭帝立，幼，大将军霍光秉政，大臣争权，上官桀等与燕王谋作乱，光既诛之，遂遵武帝法度，以刑罚痛绳群下，由是俗吏上严酷以为能，而霸独用宽和为名。
会宣帝即位，在民间时知百姓苦吏急也，闻霸持法平，召以为廷尉正，数决疑狱，庭中称平。
守丞相长史，坐公卿大议廷中知长信少府夏侯胜非议诏书大不敬，霸阿从不举劾，皆下廷尉，系狱当死。
霸因从胜受《尚书》狱中，再逾冬，积三岁乃出，语在《胜传》。
胜出，复为谏大夫，令左冯翊宋畸举霸贤良。
胜又口荐霸于上，上擢霸为扬州刺史。
三岁，宣帝下诏曰： 制诏御史：其以贤良高第扬州刺史霸为颍川太守，秩比二千石居，官赐车盖，特高一丈，别驾主簿车，缇油屏泥于轼前，以章有德。
时，上垂意于治，数下恩泽诏书，吏不奉宣。
太守霸为选择良吏，分部宣布诏令，令民咸知上意，使邮亭乡官皆畜鸡豚，以赡鳏寡贫穷者。
translation: 
Wang Cheng, I don’t know which county he is from.
He once served as the minister of mice and was very prestigious in governing the place.
Emperor Xuan was the first to praise him. The Book of Shao issued in the third year of Dijie said: If you don't reward those who have merit and punish those who are guilty, then even the names of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty will not be able to educate the world.
Now the Prime Minister Wang Cheng has never slackened his efforts to encourage the people, and has attracted more than 80,000 refugees. He has made special achievements in governing the place.
Wang Cheng was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and a salary of two thousand stones.
But before the time of requisition, Wang Cheng fell ill and died.
Later, he asked the prime ministers and censors to inquire about the gains and losses of the county's chief accountants, prefects, and government officials. Some reported that the former prime minister Wang Cheng had made false reports and exaggerated his own achievements in order to defraud prominent officials. As a result, mediocre officials later also used all means to pursue false fame.
Huang Ba, courtesy name Cigong, was a native of Yangxia County, Huaiyang County. His family was a wealthy gentry and moved to Yunling.
Huang Ba studied laws and regulations when he was young and liked to be an official. In the last years of Emperor Wu, he donated money as an imperial edict and was rewarded with an official position.
Later, he donated grain to Shenli County to supplement Zuo Feng Yi's official salary of 200 shi.
Because Huang Ba donated money to serve as an official, Zuo Fengyi despised him and refused to give him a high position, making him responsible for the county's money and grain access.
Huang Ba did not deceive in accounting, and after his integrity was found out, he was promoted to the chief of Hedong County, and later he was promoted to the prefect of Henan County because of his integrity.
Huang Ba is good at observation, quick thinking, and familiar with legal provisions. He is gentle and modest in dealing with others, considerate of his family, and good at uniting everyone.
When he was the prefect, he acted in accordance with the law and complied with the people's hearts. The prefect trusted him very much, and the people also respected and loved him.
Since the last years of Emperor Wu, the use of laws has become more stringent.
Emperor Zhao was still very young when he came to the throne, and the general Huo Guang assisted in the administration. Ministers fought for power and profit. Shangguan Jie and others also conspired with King Yan to cause rebellion. Huo Guang killed them. Therefore, he still abided by the laws of Emperor Wu's era and used severe punishments to restrain the ministers and people. As a result, some vulgar officials used harsh criminal laws to do their best. Huang Ba was the only one known for his tolerance and gentleness.
When Emperor Huixuan came to the throne, he was well aware that the people suffered from the harsh punishments imposed by officials when he was among the people. He also heard that Huang Ba upheld the law fairly, so he summoned Huang Ba to be the court official. Huang Ba adjudicated difficult cases several times, and the court unanimously believed that the verdict was fair.
So he temporarily served as Prime Minister Chang Shi. In a high-level meeting of ministers, Huang Ba failed to report the disrespectful words and deeds of Xia Housheng, the young minister of Changxin Palace, who criticized the emperor's edict without reporting it. Huang Ba and Xia Housheng were handed over to the Tingwei for trial. As a result, they were sentenced to death and imprisoned.
As a result, Huang Ba studied "Shang Shu" with Xia Housheng in prison. He was not released from prison until the third year after two winters. His detailed deeds can be found in "The Biography of Xiahou Sheng".
After Xia Housheng was released from prison, he became an admonishing doctor again, and asked Zuo Fengyi and Song Wei to recommend Huang Ba as a virtuous man.
Xia Housheng personally recommended Huang Ba to the emperor, and the emperor promoted Huang Ba to be the governor of Yangzhou.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan issued an edict saying: Order the censor: Huang Ba, who served as the governor of Yangzhou as a virtuous Gaodi, was appointed as the prefect of Yingchuan County. His salary was two thousand dan per month. When he took office, he was given a high cover for the car, which was allowed to be one foot high. His subordinates drove the car and the chief registrar. A mud-blocking red curtain could be hung in front of the car to show benevolence.
At that time, the emperor was concentrating on governing the world and issued Shao letters to the people many times, but some officials did not let the people know.
However, the prefect Huang Ba specially selected outstanding subordinate officials and assigned them to various places to issue the Emperor's Shao Order so that the people could know the Emperor's will. He also asked the Youting township officials to raise chickens and pigs to support the widowed and poor people.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
然后为条教，置父老师师伍长，班行之于民间，劝以为善防奸之意，及务耕桑，节用殖财，种树畜养，去食谷马。
米盐靡密，初若烦碎，然霸精力能推行之。
吏民见者，语次寻绎，问它阴伏，以相参考。
尝欲有所司察，择长年廉吏遣行，属令周密。
吏出，不敢舍邮亭，食于道旁，乌攫其肉。
民有欲诣府口言事者适见之，霸与语，道此。
后日吏还谒霸，霸见迎劳之，曰： 甚苦！
食于道旁乃为乌所盗肉。
吏大惊，以霸具知其起居，所问豪氂不敢有所隐。
鳏寡孤独有死无以葬者，乡部书言，霸具为区处，某所大木可以为棺，某亭猪子可以祭，吏往皆如言。
其识事聪明如此，吏民不知所出，咸称神明。
奸人去入它郡，盗贼日少。
霸力行教化而后诛罚，务在成就全安长吏。
许丞老，病聋，督邮白欲逐之，霸曰： 许丞廉吏，虽老，尚能拜起送迎，正颇重听，何伤？
且善助之，毋失贤者意。
或问其故，霸曰： 数易长吏，送故迎新之费及奸吏缘绝簿书盗财物，公私费耗甚多，皆当出于民，所易新吏又未必贤，或不如其故，徒相益为乱。
凡治道，去其泰甚者耳。
霸以外宽内明得吏民心，户口岁增，治为天下第一。
征守京兆尹，秩二千石。
坐发民治驰道不先闻，又发骑士诣北军马不适士，劾乏军兴，连贬秩。
translation: 
Then, regulations and guidelines were formulated and distributed to the grassroots officials such as elders, division commanders, and corps commanders. They were then promulgated among the people to persuade the people to strictly guard against treachery and theft, to be at ease in farming and sericulture, to use goods and resources sparingly, to plant trees and raise livestock, and to get rid of flashy and extravagant waste.
The official affairs, which were as detailed as several grains of salt, seemed complicated and messy at first, but Huang Ba carried it out with all his strength.
Huang Ba would learn useful information from the words and deeds of officials and people he could meet, and ask about the ins and outs of things for reference.
Once there was a secret investigation, so an experienced and honest official was sent to investigate, and he was ordered not to reveal the secrets.
The honest official set out as he was told. On the way, he did not dare to stay in the post house. When he was hungry, he hid on the roadside and ate some food quietly. At this time, a crow flew up and snatched away the meat he was holding.
There happened to be a person among the common people who was going to report the matter to the county government. When he saw this situation, he told Huang Ba about it.
Later, the honest official came back to see Huang Ba. Huang Ba came forward to comfort him and said, "It's so hard!"
While eating on the road, crows robbed me of my meat.
The honest official was shocked, thinking that Huang Ba already knew about his daily life when he was away, so he did not dare to hide the results of the investigation that Huang Ba asked about.
If there were widowers in the county who died and had no money to bury them, the township officials would write to inform them, and Huang Ba would be able to deal with them properly, telling them that there was a big tree somewhere that could be used as coffin material, and that there was a piglet in a certain pavilion that could be used as a sacrifice. The township officials followed the order and went to get it, and it turned out to be exactly what Huang Ba said.
Huang Ba understood the situation so clearly that officials and people who didn't know the details all called him a god.
The traitors had no choice but to move to other counties, so the number of thieves in this county gradually decreased.
Huang Ba tried his best to educate and then use punishment, paying attention to perfecting and protecting his subordinate officials.
The magistrate of Xu County was old and deaf. The postal supervisor reported that Huang Ba wanted to fire him. Huang Ba said: The magistrate of Xu County is an honest official. Although he is old, he can still handle the routine functions of the officialdom such as greetings and greetings. Even if he is deaf, what does it matter?
It's better to help him properly and don't let the virtuous person down.
When someone asked him the reason, Huang Ba said: The repeated changes of officials, the expense of sending away the old and welcoming the new, and the cunning officials taking the opportunity to destroy the account books and documents and steal property, caused great public and private losses. All the expenses had to be provided by the people, and the new officials who were replaced were not necessarily virtuous, or were not as good as their predecessors, which repeatedly exacerbated chaos in vain.
In general, the principle of governing the people is not to go too far.
Huang Ba won the hearts of officials and the people with his lenient outside and bright inside. As a result, the county's household registration increased year by year, and the governance situation was ranked first in the world.
The emperor conscripted him to try to serve as Jing Zhaoyin, with a salary of two thousand dan.
Later, because he dispatched migrant workers to repair Chidao without reporting it to the court in advance, and dispatched knights to the north, which caused a situation where the army and horses could not be rationed, Huang Ba was impeached and affected the dispatch of the army, so he was demoted and demoted one after another.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
有诏归颍川太守官，以八百石居治如其前。前后八年，郡中愈治。
是时，凤皇神爵数集郡国，颍川尤多。
天子以霸治行终长者，下诏称扬曰： 颍川太守霸，宣布诏令，百姓向化，孝子弟弟贞妇顺孙日以众多，田者让畔，道不拾遣，养视鳏寡，赡助贫穷，狱或八年亡重罪囚，吏民向于教化，兴于行谊，可谓贤人君子矣。
《书》不云乎？ 股肱良哉！
其赐爵关内侯，黄金百斤，秩中二千石。
而颍川孝弟有行义民、三老、力田，皆以差赐爵及帛。
后数月，征霸为太子太傅，迁御史大夫。
五凤三年，代丙吉为丞相，封建成侯，食邑六百户。
霸材长于治民，及为丞相，总纲纪号令，风采不及丙、魏、于定国，功名损于治郡。
时，京兆尹张敞舍鹖雀飞集丞相府，霸以为神雀，议欲以闻。
敞奏霸曰： 窃见丞相请与中二千石博士杂问郡国上计长吏、守丞为民兴利除害、成大化，条其对，有耕者让畔，男女异路，道不拾遗，及举孝子贞妇者为一辈，先上殿，举而不知其人数者次之，不为条教者在后叩头谢。
丞相虽口不言，而心欲其为之也。
长吏、守丞对时，臣敞舍有鹖雀飞止丞相府屋上，丞相以下见者数百人。
边吏多知鹖雀者，问之，皆阳不知。
丞相图议上奏曰： 臣问上计长吏、守丞以兴化条，皇天报下神雀。
后知从臣敞舍来，乃止。
translation: 
Later, an edict ordered him to return to Yingchuan County as the governor, but his salary had been reduced to 800 shi. In the past eight years, Anshun has become more and more popular in the county.
During the dispatch, Phoenix Shenwu flew to various counties many times, especially in Yingchuan County.
The emperor thought this was a good omen for Huang Ba's long-term rule, so he wrote a letter of Shao to praise him: Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan County, actively announced the emperor's will to the people. The people yearned for it and joined the imperial court. There were more and more filial sons, elder brothers, chaste wives, and obedient grandchildren. People working in the fields were humble to each other. People walking on the road do not pick up other people's lost belongings, support and visit the widowed and elderly, support and help the poor, and the prison has not even had a serious prisoner for eight years. The officials and the people yearn for enlightenment, and they are familiar with each other. It can be said that he is a wise man.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Books? The minister of thigh and thigh has excellent conduct!
He was granted the title of Lord Huang Bajue of Guannei, a hundred catties of gold, and a salary of two thousand.
The filial and virtuous people of Yingchuan County, as well as the three elders in the township and palace, Li Tian, ​​etc. were all awarded titles and silk pieces according to their levels.
A few months later, the imperial court recruited Huang Ba as the crown prince and tutor, and then transferred him to the imperial censor.
In the third year of Wufeng's reign, Huang Ba replaced Bingji as prime minister, became a marquis, and owned 600 households.
Huang Ba's ability was mainly to govern the people locally. When he became prime minister, he needed to coordinate and issue nationwide orders. His ability and demeanor were not as good as those of his predecessors such as Bingji, Wei Xiang, and Yu Dingguo. His political performance and reputation were also lower than when he governed the county.
At that time, a sparrow from Zhang Chang's house flew to the prime minister's house. Dong Ling thought it was a divine sparrow, so he decided to write a letter to express his auspiciousness.
So Zhang Chang played Huang Ba's book and said: The ministers saw the Prime Minister, Jiu Qing, and Doctor meeting with the officials and Shou Cheng sent by various counties to the capital to report their performance, and asked them to report one by one on their efforts to prosper the people, eliminate disadvantages, promote education, and reform. In all areas under their jurisdiction, farmers should give way to their fields, men and women should not mix together, and things lost on the road should be kept as their own if they are not picked up. Those who can name the number of dutiful sons, brothers-in-law, and chaste wives will be ranked first, and they will be allowed to sit in the hall first; those who can name some cases of dutiful sons, brothers-in-law, and chaste wives in the county, but cannot name the number, will be ranked second; if there are no rules and regulations, at the end, the chief officials and ministers of these counties should kowtow to the prime minister to apologize.
Although the Prime Minister said nothing, he actually hoped that they would do this.
While the chief officials and the officials guarding the prime minister were responding, a cuckoo bird from the house of Zhang Chang flew onto the prime minister's house. Hundreds of officials below the prime minister saw the cuckoo bird.
Most of the officials knew the bird, but when the prime minister asked them, they all pretended not to know.
The prime minister then discussed and reported to the emperor, saying: When my subordinate Huang Ba summoned the officials and Shou Cheng who came to apply for performance appraisal, about the implementation of enlightenment, the heaven showed auspiciousness and descended the divine bird.
Later, he learned that the cuckoo bird had flown from the home of his minister Zhang Chang, so he did not report it.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
郡国吏窃笑丞相仁厚有知略，微信奇怪也。
昔汲黯为淮阳守，辞去之官，谓大行李息曰： 御史大夫张汤怀诈阿意，以倾朝廷，公不早白，与俱受戮矣。
息畏汤，终不敢言。
后汤诛败，上闻黯与息语，乃抵息罪而秩黯诸侯相，取其思竭忠也。
臣敞非敢毁丞相也，诚恐群臣莫白，而长吏、守丞畏丞相指，归舍法令，各为私教，务相增加，浇淳散朴，并行伪貌，有名亡实，倾摇解怠，甚者为妖。
假令京师先行让畔异路，道不拾遗，其实亡益廉贪贞淫之行，而以伪先天下，固未可也；即诸侯先行之，伪声轶于京师，非细事也。
汉家承敝通变，造起律令，所以劝善禁奸，条贯详备，不可复加。
宜令贵臣明饬长吏、守丞，归告二千石、举三老、孝弟、力田、孝廉、廉吏务得其人，郡事皆以义法令捡式，毋得擅为条教；敢挟诈伪以奸名誉者，必先受戮，以正明好恶。
天子嘉纳敞言，召上计吏，使侍中临饬如敞指意。
霸甚惭。
又乐陵侯史高以外属旧恩侍中贵重，霸荐高可太尉。
天子使尚书召问霸： 太尉官罢久矣，丞相兼之，所以偃武兴文也。
如国家不虞，边境有事，左右之臣皆将率也。
夫宣明教化，通达幽隐，使狱无冤刑，邑无盗贼，君之职也。
将相之官，朕之任焉。
侍中乐陵侯高帷幄近臣，朕之所自亲，君何越职而举之？
尚书令受丞相对，霸免冠谢罪，数日乃决。
自是后不敢复有所请。
translation: 
The officials of the county and state secretly laughed at the prime minister, although he had a reputation for being kind and wise, but he was so self-righteous that he made a fuss.
In the past, when Ji An took over as the governor of Huaiyang, he said goodbye to his colleagues and left the capital to take up his post. He said to the elder Li Xi: Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, is treacherous and deceives the emperor. If you don't report it early, once the matter is exposed, I'm afraid you will inevitably suffer the same fate as him.
Li Xi was afraid of Zhang Tang and never dared to report him.
Later, Zhang Tang's affair was exposed and he was executed. The emperor heard what Ji An said to Li Xi, so he asked about Li Xi's crime and promoted Ji An to the rank of prime minister in recognition of his loyalty.
The minister Zhang Chang did not dare to slander the prime minister, for fear that the ministers would not retaliate for the matter, and the chief officials and the prime minister were afraid of the prime minister's power. As a result, the laws were ineffective, selfishness was hidden, exaggeration became common, simplicity was lost, hypocrisy prevailed, the name was difficult to live up to, official duties were slack, and disorderly officials were rampant.
If the capital area is ordered to implement the trend of "giving boundaries, dividing roads, and not picking up roads" in advance, it will actually be counterproductive and set a hypocritical example for the world in advance, so it is definitely not feasible; even if the vassal states implement it in advance, if the trend of hypocrisy exceeds the capital, the consequences will be disastrous.
We, the Han Dynasty, eliminated evils and adopted reforms, and formulated laws and regulations in order to encourage the people to do good, to prevent theft and prohibit adultery. The articles are detailed and cannot be added or changed.
The ministers should clearly instruct the chief officials and the chief ministers, and report to the county governor when they go back. The three elders, filial sons, younger brothers, Litian, Xiaolian, and honest officials must live up to their names. Official affairs in the county should be carried out in accordance with the law, and no laws can be made without authorization. If anyone dares to use hypocrisy to gain reputation, he must first enforce the law to clarify good and evil.
The emperor accepted Zhang Chang's memorial, summoned the officials and ministers from the prefectures and counties to report the performance appraisal, and ordered his servants to report Zhang Chang's memorial.
Huang Ba was very ashamed.
Once again, Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, was appointed as a minister as a relative and had a high reputation. Huang Ba recommended Shi Gao to be appointed as Taiwei.
The emperor ordered his minister to summon Huang Ba and question him, saying: "The post of Taiwei has been abolished for a long time, and its responsibilities are concurrently managed by the prime minister. This is to calm down military power and promote literature."
If the country is in turmoil and the borders are tight, the left and right ministers can serve as generals leading the troops.
It is your prime minister's duty to enlighten people and enlighten them, so that there will be no more unjust cases in prison and no more thieves in the local area.
Officials at the general and ministerial levels are appointed by me.
Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling in the imperial court, is my closest minister. I already know his talents well. Why would you go beyond your duties and recommend him?
The minister asked the prime minister to make a statement. Huang Ba was so ashamed that he quickly took off his hat and apologized. After a few seconds, Huang Ba was exonerated.
From then on, Huang Ba never dared to report to the emperor again.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
然自汉兴，言治民吏，以霸为首。
为相五岁，甘露三年薨，谥曰定侯。
霸死后，乐陵侯高竟为大司马。霸子思侯赏嗣，为关都尉。
薨，子忠侯辅嗣，至卫尉九卿。
薨，子忠嗣侯，讫王莽乃绝。
子孙为吏二千石者五六人。
始，霸少为阳夏游徼，与善相人者共载出，见一妇人，相者言： 此妇人当富贵，不然，相书不可用也。
霸推问之，乃其乡里巫家女也。
霸即娶为妻，与之终身。
为丞相后徙杜陵。
朱邑字仲卿，庐江舒人也。
少时为舒桐乡啬夫，廉平不苛，以爱利为行，未尝笞辱人，存问耆老孤寡，遇之有恩，所部吏民爱敬焉。
迁补太守卒史，举贤良为大司农丞，迁北海太守，以治行第一入为大司农。
为人淳厚，笃于故旧，然性公正，不可交以私。
天子器之，朝廷敬焉。
是时，张敞为胶东相，与邑书曰： 明主游心太古，广延茂士，此诚忠臣竭思之时也。
直敞远守剧郡，驭于绳墨，匈臆约结，固亡奇也。
虽有，亦安所施？
足下以清明之德，掌周稷之业，犹饥者甘糟糠，穰岁余梁肉。
何则？
有亡之势异也。
昔陈平虽贤，须魏倩而后进；韩信虽奇，赖萧公而后信。
故事各达其时之英俊，若必伊尹、吕望而后荐之，则此人不因足下而进矣。
邑感敞言，贡荐贤士大夫，多得其助者。
translation: 
However, since the rise of the Han Dynasty, when it comes to managing local officials and people, Huang Ba still ranks first.
Huang Ba served as prime minister for five years, and Ganlu died in three years. Mi was named Dinghou.
After Huang Ba's death, Shi Gao, Marquis of Leling, was promoted to Grand Sima. Huang Ba's son, Sihou Huang Shang, inherited the title and was appointed Captain of Guan.
When Huang Shang died, his son Zhonghou Huang Fu succeeded him, and his official rank was Weiwei Jiuqing.
When Huang Fu died, his son Huang Zhong succeeded him as marquis. It was only when Wang Mang arrived that the Huang family ceased to have nobility.
Among his descendants, there are five or six who have reached the level of county governor.
In his early years, Huang Ba Ren was traveling in Yangxia, traveling in the same car with a fortune teller. He met a young girl on the roadside. The fortune teller looked at her and said: This girl must be destined to be wealthy in the future, otherwise, the fortune teller will be invalid.
Huang Ba went over to inquire about the woman's surname, and it turned out that she was the daughter of a shaman family in the countryside.
Huang Ba married her and grew old with her.
After Huang Ba became prime minister, he moved to Duling.
Zhu Yi, whose courtesy name is Zhongqing, was born in Shu County, Lujiang County.
When he was young, he served as a stingy man in charge of hearing lawsuits and collecting taxes in Tongxiang, Shu County. He was honest and fair in his work, did not impose harsh policies, and benefited the people with a benevolent heart. He never beat or bullied the villagers. He cared for the elderly, orphans and widowed mothers, and was very kind to them. Therefore, the officials and people in his area respected and loved him.
Later, he was transferred to the post of the prefect, and he was promoted to the chief minister of Nongcheng because he was recommended as a virtuous man. Later, he was transferred to the prefect of Beihai County, and then he was promoted to the chief minister of agriculture because of his outstanding governance and conduct.
Zhu Yi is an honest man who cherishes old feelings, but he is also upright and does not show favoritism in official matters.
Therefore, the emperor valued him and the court officials also respected him.
At that time, Zhang Chang was appointed as the Prime Minister of the Miao Dynasty and wrote to Zhu Yi: The emperor today yearns for the style of ancient saints and recruits philanthropists extensively. This is really the good time that loyal ministers most yearn for.
However, I, Zhang Chang, am far away in a remote and difficult-to-govern county at this time. I am restricted by laws and regulations, and my mind is depressed, making it difficult for me to have greater ambitions.
Even if there is, where can it be used?
And with your honest and wise character, you preside over agriculture, and you are like a hungry person who uses chaff as delicacy, but in a good harvest year, you have to abandon a lot of fine food.
What is the reason for this?
Nothing more than the difference in circumstances between having and not having.
In the past, although Chen Ping was a virtuous man, he needed Wei Qian's help to make progress; although Han Xin was a genius, he had to rely on Xiao He's recommendation to gain trust.
Therefore, if all the heroes who are born at the right time must be famous like Yi Yin and Lu Wang in ancient times before being recommended, then the talents will not be appointed because of you.
Zhu Yi was deeply moved by what Zhang Chang said, so he tried his best to recommend talents and provided various help.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
身为列卿，居处俭节，禄赐以共九族乡党，家亡余财。
神爵元年卒。
天子闵惜，下诏称扬曰： 大司农邑，廉洁守节，退食自公，亡强外之交，束脩之馈，可谓淑人君子，遭离凶灾，朕甚闵之。
其赐邑子黄金百斤，以奉其祭祀。
初，邑病且死，属其子曰： 我故为桐乡吏，其民爱我，必葬我桐乡。
后世子孙奉尝我，不如桐乡民。
及死，其子葬之桐乡西郭外，民果共为邑起冢立祠，岁时祠祭，至今不绝。
龚遂字少卿，山阳南平阳人也。
以明经为官，至昌邑郎中令，事王贺。
贺动作多不正，遂为人忠厚，刚毅有大节，内谏争于王，外责傅相，引经义，陈祸福，至于涕泣，蹇蹇亡已。
面刺王过，王至掩耳起走，曰： 郎中令善愧人。
及国中皆畏惮焉。
王尝久与驺奴宰人游戏饮食，赏赐亡度。遂入见王，涕泣膝行，左右侍御皆出涕。王曰： 郎中令何为哭？
遂曰： 臣痛社稷危也！
愿赐清闲竭愚。
王辟左右，遂曰： 大王知胶西王所以为无道亡乎？ 王曰： 不知也。
曰： 臣闻胶西王有谀臣侯得，王所为拟于桀、纣也，得以为尧、舜也。
王说其谄谀，尝与寝处，唯得所言，以至于是。
今大王亲近群小，渐渍邪恶所习，存亡之机，不可不慎也。
臣请选郎通经术有行义者与王起居，坐则通《诗》、《书》，立则习礼容，宜有益。
王许之。
遂乃选郎中张安等十人侍王。
居数日，王皆逐去安等。
久之，宫中数有妖怪，王以问遂，遂以为有大忧，宫室将空，语在《昌邑王传》。
会昭帝崩，亡子，昌邑王贺嗣立，官属皆征入。
王相安乐迁长乐卫尉，遂见安乐，流涕谓曰： 王立为天子，日益骄溢，谏之不复听，今哀痛未尽，日与近臣饮食作乐，斗虎豹，召皮轩，车九流，驱驰东西，所为悖道。
translation: 
Zhu Yi was a minister, but his family was very frugal. He shared his salary and rewards with his elders in his hometown, but he had no extra money.
Zhu Yi passed away in the first year of Shenjue.
The emperor took pity on him, so he went down to Shao and praised him, saying: "The great minister, Zhu Yi, is honest, honest and public-minded. He does not make casual friends or accept bribes. He can be called an upright gentleman." I feel very sorry for this misfortune.
One hundred catties of gold were specially given to the son of Zhu Yi for the purpose of offering sacrifices.
When Zhu Yi was critically ill, he told his son: I was originally a minor official in Tongxiang. The local people loved me and I will be buried in Tongxiang after my death.
The descendants of future generations will not be as good as the fathers and fellows of Tongxiang in offering sacrifices to me.
After his death, his son buried him outside the west city of Tongxiang. As expected, the people built a tomb and an ancestral hall for Zhu Yi and offered sacrifices on time every year, which has never stopped to this day.
Gong Sui, whose courtesy name was Shaoqing, was a native of Pingyang County in the south of Shanyang County.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he went to work as an official and became a doctor in Changyi. He served Liu He, the king of Changyi.
Liu He's behavior was very unruly, while Gong Sui was loyal, strong and decisive. He was never ambiguous on important matters. He gave outspoken advice to the king internally, and supervised the Taifu and the Prime Minister externally. He always cited scriptures and stated the good and bad fortunes and gains and losses until he shed tears. He was extremely loyal.
He never flattered, and often pointed out Liu He's faults to his face, which made him unable to listen. He covered his ears and stood up and walked away, saying: "Mr. Zhongling is really embarrassing."
Liu He and all the ministers in the country did not respect him.
Liu He used to eat, drink and have fun with his servants and caterers, and gave them endless rewards. Gong Sui went to the palace to admonish him. He knelt down and burst into tears, crying softly. The people who were waiting around Liu He were moved to tears. Liu He asked: Why is Lang Zhongling crying?
Gong Sui replied: I am sad that the country is in danger!
I hope you can spare some free time and let me finish my ignorant opinion.
Liu He told the people around him to stay away, and Gong Sui asked: "Does the king know that the King of Jiaoxi did not do good things and perished?" Liu He said: I don’t know.
Gong Sui then said: I heard that the king of Jiaoxi had a courtier named Hou De who was good at flattery. The king of Jiaoxi obviously did the same as Xia Jie and Shang Zhou, but Hou De said that he was the same as Yao and Shun.
The King of Jiaoxi liked his flattery, often lived with him, and listened to his evil words, which led to his death and the country's destruction.
Now that the king is close to those villains, he will gradually become infected with their bad habits. This is a matter related to the survival of the country, so you must be cautious!
Please allow me to select some people who are proficient in Confucianism and of high moral character in Lang Palace to live with the king. We will read "Poems" and "Books" together when we sit down, and practice etiquette together immediately. This may be of some help to the king.
Liu He agreed to this suggestion.
So Gong Sui selected Zhang An and ten other people to serve him.
However, within a few days, Liu He drove them all away.
After a long time, strange phenomena occurred many times in the palace. Liu He asked Gong Sui why. Gong Sui believed that a big misfortune would happen, which was a sign that the palace would be empty. This matter is described in the "Biography of the King of Changyi".
It happened that Emperor Zhao died without a son. Liu He, king of Changyi, succeeded to the throne, and all his officials were recruited to Beijing.
Xiangguo Anle was transferred to Changle Palace Guard. Gong Sui went to see him and told him with tears: Since the king became emperor, he has become more and more proud and complacent every day. He no longer listens to the advice of others. Now he is still in mourning and observes filial piety. He drinks and hases with his relatives and officials every day. When he is not fighting tigers and leopards, he or she gathers in leather carts with nine streamers on them. They run around everywhere. What they do is contrary to the right path.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
古制宽，大臣有隐退，今去不得，阳狂恐知，身死为世戮，奈何？
君，陛下故相，宜极谏争。
王即位二十七日，卒以淫乱废。
昌邑群臣坐陷王于恶不道，皆诛，死者二百余人，唯遂与中尉王阳以数谏争得减死，髡为城旦。
宣帝即位，不久，渤海左右郡岁饥，盗贼并起，二千石不能禽制。
上选能治者，丞相、御史举遂可用，上以为渤海太守。
时，遂年七十余，召见，形貌短小，宣帝望见，不副所闻，心内轻焉，谓遂曰： 渤海废乱，朕甚忧之。
君欲何以息其盗贼，以称朕意？
遂对曰： 海濒遐远，不沾圣化，其民困于饥寒而吏不恤，故使陛下赤子盗弄陛下之兵于潢池中耳。
今欲使臣胜之邪，将安之也？
上闻遂对，甚说，答曰： 选用贤良，固欲安之也。
遂曰： 臣闻治乱民犹治乱绳，不可急也；唯缓之，然后可治。
臣愿丞相、御史且无拘臣以文法，得一切便宜从事。
上许焉，加赐黄金，赠遣乘传。
至渤海界，郡闻新太守至，发兵以迎，遂皆遣还，移书敕属县悉罢逐捕盗贼吏。
诸持锄钩田器者皆为良民，吏毋得问，持兵者乃为盗贼。
遂单车独行至府，郡中翕然，盗贼亦皆罢。
渤海又多劫略相随，闻遂教令，即时解散，弃其兵弩而持钩锄。
盗贼于是悉平，民安土乐业。
translation: 
In ancient times, the legal system was lenient, and ministers could retire when they saw that the king was dishonest, but now they cannot resign. They want to pretend to be crazy and resign to avoid disaster, but they are also afraid that others will find out, and if they die, they will be laughed at by the world. What should they do?
You used to be the Emperor's Prime Minister, so you should speak out and advise!
Liu He took the throne for seventeen days, but was finally deposed by his ministers due to his debauchery and confusion.
The ministers from Changyi committed the crime of condoning the king's evil and immorality, and they were all executed. More than 200 people in total were executed. Only Gong Sui and Lieutenant Wang Yang, who had repeatedly admonished Liu He and fulfilled their certain duties, were reduced from the death penalty and sentenced to four years of hard labor in building the city.
After Liu He was deposed, Emperor Xuan ascended the throne. A few years later, famine broke out in the counties near the Bohai Sea. The hungry people rose up in rebellion one after another, and the prefect could not subdue them.
Emperor Xuan wanted to choose someone who could govern the Bohai Sea. The prime minister and the imperial censor recommended Gong Sui and considered him useful, so Emperor Xuan appointed him as the governor of the Bohai Sea.
Gong Sui was already over seventy years old at that time. When Emperor Xuan summoned him, he saw that his appearance was short and inconsistent with what he had heard. He felt a little contemptuous of him, so he asked him: "The laws and regulations in Bohai County have been weakened, and the hungry people are causing chaos. I am very worried."
What methods are you going to use to quell the thieves in the county so that I can feel at ease?
Gong Sui replied: It's just because the Bohai Sea is far away from the sea and has not been educated by the Holy Dynasty. The people there are hungry and cold, and the local officials are not considerate, so the emperor's people are forced to steal the emperor's weapons and play in the pond. It is not an intentional rebellion!
Now I don’t know whether I should suppress them or appease them?
Emperor Xuan was very happy after hearing Gong Sui's answer and replied: The purpose of choosing virtuous people is to appease the people!
Gong Sui said: "I heard that regulating the chaos of the people is like straightening the chaos of the ropes. You can't rush it." Only don't be anxious and then you can manage.
I request the Prime Minister and the Royal Censor not to restrict me with general legal provisions for the time being, and let me handle it myself according to the actual situation.
Emperor Xuan agreed, rewarded him with additional gold, and sent him to his post.
Gong Sui took a special train from the post station and arrived at the border of Bohai County. The county heard that the new governor had arrived and sent troops to greet him. Gong Sui asked all the soldiers to go back, and then issued an official document instructing the counties to withdraw all officials who were pursuing the thieves.
All those who carry hoes, sickles and other agricultural tools are considered good citizens, and officials are not allowed to pursue them; only those who carry weapons are considered thieves.
Then he drove to the government alone without his entourage. The whole county unanimously supported him, and the groups of hungry people dispersed.
There were many people in Bohai who ganged up to rob and rob on the road. After listening to Gong Sui's order, they immediately disbanded, threw away their weapons, and took sickles and hoes instead.
The thieves were all put to rest, and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
遂乃开仓廪假贫民，选用良吏，尉安牧养焉。
遂见齐俗奢侈，好末技，不田作，乃躬率以俭约，劝民务农桑，令口种一树榆，百本薤、五十本葱、一畦韭，家二母彘、五鸡。
民有带持刀剑者，使卖剑买牛，卖刀买犊，曰： 何为带牛佩犊！
春夏不得不趋田亩，秋冬课收敛，益蓄果实菱芡。
劳来循行，郡中皆有蓄积，吏民皆富实。狱讼止息。
数年，上遣使者征遂，议曹王生愿从。
功曹以为王生素耆酒，亡节度，不可使。
遂不忍逆，从至京师。
王生日饮酒，不视太守。
会遂引入宫，王生醉，从后呼，曰： 明府且止，愿有所白。
遂还问其故，王生曰： 天子即问君何以治渤海，君不可有所陈对，宜曰 皆圣主之德，非小臣之力也 。 遂受其言。
既至前，上果问以治状，遂对如王生言。
天子说其有让，笑曰： 君安得长者之言而称之？
遂因前曰： 臣非知此，乃臣议曹教戒臣也。
上以遂年老不任公卿，拜为水衡都尉，议曹王生为水衡丞，以褒显遂云。
水衡典上林禁苑，共张宫馆，为宗庙取牲，官职亲近，上甚重之。
以官寿卒。
召信臣字翁卿，九江寿春人也。
以明经甲科为郎，出补穀阳长。
举高第，迁上蔡长。
其治视民如子，所居见称述，超为零陵太守，病归。
复征为谏大夫，迁南阳太守，其治如上蔡。
translation: 
Gong Sui then opened a warehouse to provide relief to the poor, and selected honest officials to appease the people and allow them to live in peace and prosperity.
Gong Sui saw that the local customs in Bohai were extravagant, favored industry and commerce, and despised farming, so he personally took the lead in practicing frugality and persuaded the people to farm and grow mulberry trees. He asked everyone to plant an elm tree, a hundred scallions, fifty green onions, and a row of leeks. Each family raised two sows and five leeks.
If you find any of the people carrying swords or swords, ask them to sell their swords to buy oxen and sell their knives to buy calves, saying: "Why do you wear oxen and calves on your body?"
In spring and summer, people were urged to farm in the fields, and in autumn and winter, they were urged to harvest. They also asked every household to store more fruits, water chestnuts, gorgon seeds and the like.
Thanks to Gong Sui's inspection and encouragement, the county had savings, the officials and the people were prosperous, and there were no more lawsuits.
A few years later, Emperor Xuan sent an envoy to recall Gong Sui and discuss Cao Wangsheng's request to go with him.
Gong Cao thought that Wang Sheng had always been addicted to drinking and had no control over it, so it was inappropriate for him to follow him.
But Gong Sui couldn't bear to refuse, so he asked him to follow him to Beijing.
When Wang Sheng arrived in the capital, he just drank every day and never visited Gong Sui.
One day, Gong Sui was summoned to the palace. Wang Sheng was drunk. He followed him and shouted loudly: "Ming Mansion will stop for a moment. I have a few words to say to you."
Gong Sui turned around and asked him what he was shouting for. He said: If the emperor asks you how you manage the Bohai Sea, you must not say anything more. You should only answer: It all depends on the power of the Holy Spirit. It is not that I have any ability! , Gong Sui accepted his opinion.
Gong Sui arrived in front of Emperor Xuan. As expected, the emperor asked him about the management of the Bohai Sea, and he answered according to Wang Sheng's words.
Emperor Xuan was pleased with his humility and courtesy, and said with a smile: "Where did you learn the words of a loyal elder?"
Gong Sui took the opportunity to step forward and said, "I don't know what I should say. It was my advisor Cao Wangsheng who warned me."
Because Gong Sui was old and could not take on the important responsibilities of a minister, Emperor Xuan appointed him as the Commander-in-Chief of Shuiheng, and proposed that King Cao be appointed Shuihengcheng to express his praise and respect for Gong Sui.
Shuiheng Duwei was in charge of Shanglin Garden, responsible for the furnishings of the palaces and pavilions, and providing sacrifices for the ancestral temple. It was an official position that was close to the emperor.
Gong Sui was highly regarded by Emperor Xuan and died in office.
Zhao Xinchen, named Wengqing, was from Shouchun County, Jiujiang County.
He was appointed as a Langguan as Ming Jingjia Ke, and left the capital to serve as the county magistrate of Guyang.
Ranked first in the performance appraisal, he was transferred to Shangcai County Magistrate.
He called his trusted ministers to love the people like his own sons, and was highly praised during his tenure as an official. Later, he was promoted to the prefect of Lingling County, but he returned due to illness.
After recovering from the illness, he was recruited as an admonishing doctor and later transferred to the post of governor of Nanyang County. His governance was as good as when he was in Shangcai.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
信臣为人勤力有方略，好为民兴利，务在富之。
躬劝耕农，出入阡陌，止舍离乡亭，稀有安居时。
行视郡中水泉，开通沟渎，起水门提阏凡数十处，以广溉灌，岁岁增加，多至三万顷。
民得其利，蓄积有余。
信臣为民作均水约束，刻石立于田畔，以防分争。
禁止嫁娶送终奢靡，务出于俭约。
府县吏家子弟好游敖，不以田作为事，辄斥罢之，甚者案其不法，以视好恶。
其化大行，郡中莫不耕稼力田，百姓归之，户口增倍，盗贼狱讼衰止。
吏民亲爱信臣，号之曰召父。
荆州刺史奏信臣为百姓兴利，郡以殷富，赐黄金四十斤。
迁河南太守，治行常为第一，复数增秩赐金。
竟宁中，征为少府，列于九卿，奏请上林诸离远宫馆稀幸御者，勿复缮治共张，又奏省乐府黄门倡优诸戏，及宫馆兵弩什器减过泰半。
太官园种冬生葱韭菜茹，覆以屋庑，昼夜然蕴火，待温气乃生。信臣以为此皆不时之物，有伤于人，不宜以奉供养，乃它非法食物，悉奏罢，省费岁数千万。
信臣年老以官卒。
元始四年，诏书祀百辟卿士有益于民者，蜀郡以文翁，九江以召父应诏书。
岁时郡二千石率官属行礼，奉祠信臣冢，而南阳亦为立祠。
translation: 
Zhao Xinchen is diligent and resourceful, likes to provide welfare for the people, and is committed to making them rich.
I personally work hard at farming, go to and from the fields, and stay in country houses. I rarely have any leisure time.
He inspected water springs in the county, presided over the opening of ditches, and erected dozens of water gates and sluices, which increased the irrigated farmland, reaching a maximum of 30,000 hectares.
The people benefited from water conservancy and irrigation, and the harvested grain was sufficient for storage.
Zhao Xinchen also formulated water regulations for the people, and engraved these regulations on stone tablets and erected them at the boundaries of the fields to prevent competition.
In addition, he also prohibited extravagance and waste during weddings and funerals, and was committed to promoting the trend of diligence and thrift.
If the children of prefecture and county officials roam freely, and if the prefecture and county officials do not regard farming as their official duties, they will all be reprimanded and dismissed from office. In serious cases, they will be brought to justice to observe the good and evil.
Through the above measures, education has been widely implemented in the county. Everyone in the county is engaged in agriculture. The people support county officials. The number of households in the county has also doubled, and the number of thieves and lawsuits has been reduced to a very small level.
Officials and people all loved Zhao Xinchen and called him Zhaofu.
The governor of Jingzhou praised the summoned ministers for their ability to seek benefits for the people, and the counties under their jurisdiction became rich, and they were given forty catties of gold.
Later, he summoned his ministers and was transferred to the post of governor of Henan. His governance performance always ranked first in the world, so his salary was increased many times and he was given gold.
During the Jingning period, Zhao Xinchen was conscripted into the Shaofu and was listed among the nine ministers. He asked the emperor not to repair and manage some distant palaces in the Shanglin area that the emperor rarely visited. He also asked the emperor to reduce the number of entertainment activities such as Yuefu Huangmen and advocating excellence, and to reduce the number of crossbows and equipment in the palaces by half.
The winter green onions and leeks grown in the Taiguan Garden had to be grown in a greenhouse, with fires burning day and night, and required warm air to grow. Zhao Xinchen believed that these did not grow naturally according to the seasons, and would be harmful to people if eaten. They were not suitable for the needs of the palace. They should be asked to stop planting them along with other crops that are not grown according to seasonal seasons. This would save tens of millions every year.
Later, he summoned his trusted ministers to die of old age while serving in office.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor issued an edict to commemorate those who had done good things for the people among the hundreds of officials and officials. Shu County appointed Wen Weng, and Jiujiang summoned trusted ministers to respond to the edict.
Every year when the time comes, the prefect of the county leads his subordinate officials to pay homage to Zhao Xinchen's tomb, and a temple is built for him in Nanyang.


