Chunk 0: 
original: 
始建国元年正月朔，莽帅公侯卿士奉皇太后玺韨，上太皇太后，顺符命，去汉号焉。
初，莽妻宜春侯王氏女，立为皇后。
本生四男：宇、获、安、临。
二子前诛死，安颇荒忽，乃以临为皇太子，安为新嘉辟。
封宇子六人：千为功隆公，寿为功明公，吉为功成公，宗为功崇以，世为功昭公，利为功著公。
大赦天下。
莽乃策命孺子曰： 咨尔婴，昔皇天右乃太祖，历世十二，享国二百一十载，历数在于予躬。
《诗》不云乎？ 侯服于周，天命靡常。 封尔为定安公，永为新室宾。
於戏！
敬天之休，往践乃位，毋废予命。
又曰： 其以平原、安德、漯阴、鬲、重丘，凡户万，地方百里，为定安公国。
立汉祖宗之庙于其国，与周后并，行其正朔、服色。
世世以事其祖宗，永以命德茂功，享历代之祀焉。
以孝平皇后为定安太后。
读策毕，莽亲执孺子手，流涕歔欷，曰： 昔周公摄位，终得复子明辟，今予独迫皇天威命，不得如意！
哀叹良久。
中傅将孺子下殿，北面而称臣。
百僚陪位，莫不感动。
又按金匮，辅臣皆封拜。
以太傅、左辅、骠骑将军安阳侯王舜为太师，封安新公；大司徒就德侯平晏为太傅，就新公；少阿、羲和、京兆尹、红休侯刘歆为国师，嘉新公；广汉梓潼哀章为国将，美新公：是为四辅，位上公。
太保、后承承阳侯甄邯为大司马，承新公；丕进侯王寻为大司徒，章新公；步兵将军成都侯王邑为大司空，隆新公：是为三公。
大阿、右拂；大司空、卫将军广阳侯甄丰为更始将军，广新公；京兆王兴为卫将军，奉新公；轻车将军成武侯孙建为立国将军，成新公；京兆王盛为前将军，崇新公：是为四将。
凡十一公。
王兴者，故城门令史。
王盛者，卖饼。
莽按符命求得此姓名十余人，两人容貌应卜相，径从布衣登用，以视神焉。
余皆拜为郎。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wang Mang led the princes and ministers to hold the newly made Imperial Seal of the Empress Dowager and presented it to the Empress Dowager. In compliance with the order, the name of the Han Dynasty was removed.
It turned out that Wang Mang married the daughter of the Wang family of the Marquis of Yichun and made her his queen.
She originally gave birth to four sons: Wang Zi, Wang Huo, Wang An, and Wang Lin.
Two of his sons had been executed earlier. Wang An looked a little confused, so he made Wang Lin the crown prince and Wang An the new Jiapi.
There are six sons who are given the title of king: Wang Qian is Gonglong Gong, Wang Shou is Gongming Gong, Wang Ji is Gongchenggong, Wang Zong is Gongchong Gong, Wang Shi is Gongzhao Gong, and Wang Li is Gongzhu Gong.
An amnesty was announced for the whole world.
Wang Mang then wrote a policy letter and ordered the boy to say: Alas! You Liu Ying, the ancestor who was helped by heaven in the past, has been passed down for twelve generations and has enjoyed state power for two hundred and ten years. It is my turn according to destiny.
Didn’t it say so in the Book of Songs? The descendants of the Yin Dynasty became princes and surrendered to the Zhou Dynasty. It can be seen that destiny is not certain. I will grant you the title of Ding'an Gong and always be the guest of the new dynasty.
Ouch!
You must be grateful to God for his kindness, go and take your place, and do not disobey my orders.
He also said: Pingyuan County, Ande County, Luoyin County, Li County and Chongqiu County, with a total of 10,000 households and a land of 100 miles each, should be regarded as the Ding'an Principality.
Build an ancestral temple of the Han Dynasty ancestors in your feudal state, and treat it equally with the descendants of the Zhou Dynasty. You can use your own calendar and the colors of your carriages, horses, and clothing.
Serve your ancestors from generation to generation, always rely on your noble virtues and outstanding achievements, and enjoy the sacrifices of endless descendants.
Queen Xiaoqian was named the Queen Mother of Ding'an.
After reading out the policy, Wang Mang personally held the boy's hand, sighed with tears, and said: In the past, Duke Zhou acted as the king and was finally able to return the power of Mingjun to King Zhou Cheng. Now I am forced by the majestic order of God and cannot do what I want!
A long sigh of sadness.
The middle master took the boy down to the palace and faced the north, calling himself a minister.
Hundreds of officials accompanied him, and no one was unmoved.
According to the instructions on the gold cabinet, the auxiliary ministers held appointment ceremonies.
The Taifu, Zuo Fu, and Husband General Anyang Hou Wang Shun were appointed as the Grand Master, and were granted the title of An Xingong; the Great Situ Juudehou Pingyan was appointed as the Grand Tutor, and he was granted the title of Xingong; Shao'a, Xihe, and Jingzhao Yin Hongxiu Hou Liu Xin were appointed as the Imperial Preceptors and were granted the title of Jiaxin Gong; Aizhang, a native of Zitong County in Guanghan County, was appointed as the State General and was granted the title of Mei Xingong: these are the fourth assistants, ranking in the rank of Grand Duke.
The Taibao and later Chengyang Marquis Zhen Han was appointed as the Great Sima, and was granted the title of New Gong; the Marquis of Pi Jin, Wang Xun, was granted the title of the Great Situ, and was granted the title of the New Duke; the infantry general, the Marquis of Chengdu, was granted the title of the Grand Sikong, and was granted the title of Long Xingong: these are the three Dukes.
Da'a, Youfu, Da Sikong, and Wei generals Guangyang Hou Zhenfeng were appointed as Gengshi generals and were granted the title of Guangxin Gong; Wang Xing from Jingzhao Yin was appointed as the Wei general and was granted the title of Xingong; General Qingche Cheng Wuhou Sun Jian was appointed as the founding general and was granted the title of Xingong; Wang Sheng from Jingzhao Yin was appointed as the former general and was granted the title of Chongxin Gong: these are the four generals.
Eleven males in total.
Wang Xing was the original official of the city gate.
Wang Sheng is a cake seller.
Wang Mang found more than ten people with such names according to the talisman. The appearance of these two people met the requirements of divination and fortune telling, and they were directly recruited from civilians to show their magic.
Others with the same name were awarded the title of Langguan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
是日，封拜卿大夫、侍中、尚书官凡数百人。
诸刘为郡守，皆徙为谏大夫。
改明光宫为定安馆，定安太后居之。
以故大鸿胪府为定安公第，皆置门卫使者监领。
敕阿乳母不得与语，常在四壁中，至于长大，不能名六畜。
后莽以女孙宇子妻之。
莽策群司曰： 岁星司肃，东岳太师典致时雨，青炜登平，考景以晷。
荧惑司哲，南岳太傅典致时奥，赤炜颂平，考声以律。
太白司艾，西岳国师典致时阳，白炜象平，考量以铨。
辰星司谋，北岳国将典致时寒，玄炜和平，考星以漏。
月刑元股左，司马典致武应，考方法矩，主司天文，钦若昊天，敬授民时，力来农事，以丰年谷。
日德元厷右，司徒典致文瑞，考圜合规，主司人道，五教是辅，帅民承上，宣美风俗，五品乃训。
斗平元心中，司空典致物图，考度以绳，主司地里，平治水土，掌名山川，众殖鸟兽，蕃茂草木。
各策命以其职，如典诰之文。
置大司马司允，大司徒司直，大司空司若，位皆孤卿。
更名大司农曰羲和，后更为纳言，大理曰作士，太常曰秩宗，大鸿胪曰典乐，少府曰共工，水衡都尉曰予虞，与三公司卿凡九卿，分属三公。
每一卿置大夫三人，一大夫置元士三人，凡二十七大夫，八十一元士，分主中都官诸职。
translation: 
On this day, a total of several hundred people were awarded the official positions of minister, minister, and minister.
Members of the royal family surnamed Liu who served as county governors were all transferred to admonish the officials.
Change Mingguang Palace to Ding'an Pavilion and let Queen Mother Ding'an live there.
The former Dahonglu official residence was used as a public residence in Ding'an, with guards and envoys set up to monitor and manage it.
The nursery staff and nanny were warned not to talk to him, and he was allowed to stay in a small room surrounded by four walls. Until he grew up, he could not even call the animals by their names.
Later, Wang Ling married his granddaughter Wang Yu's daughter to him.
Wang Mang issued a policy document stipulating the responsibilities of the officials: Jupiter requires solemnity and is the chief official in the east. It is responsible for realizing the right amount of rain at the right time, the light of cyan nourishing all things and the equal growth, and paying attention to the sun's shadow and sun rules.
Mars requires wisdom and is the governor of the south. It is responsible for achieving the right time and moderation of heat, the even development of red light, and the attention to sound and melody.
Venus requires stability and is the chief minister of the West. It is responsible for achieving timely and moderate dryness, even growth of white light, and stressing measurement and balance.
Mercury requires shrewdness and is the chief general of the north. It is responsible for achieving the right time and moderation of cold, the evenness of black light, and the attention to stars and oval.
The moon symbolizes punishment, just like the emperor's left leg, that is, Da Sima, who is responsible for realizing martial arts, paying attention to the squareness, following the ruler, governing astronomy, and respectfully obeying the great heaven. Carefully teach the people the production seasons, encourage the development of agricultural production, and ensure a bumper harvest of food.
The sun symbolizes virtue and governance, just like the emperor's right arm, the Great Situ, who is responsible for realizing civil governance, paying attention to harmony, complying with the compass, managing humanity, guiding the five ethics and morals, leading the people to obey their superiors, and advocating the improvement of customs and habits, so that the five kinds of human relations can be normal.
The Beidou symbolizes the highest standard, and is like the heart of the emperor, that is, Da Sikong, who is responsible for realizing the peaceful scene, paying attention to the normalization and standardization of things, using the principle as an example, supervising geography, reclaiming land, building water conservancy, managing large hills and rivers, breeding birds and animals, and promoting the lush growth of vegetation.
Other officials have made regulations according to their duties, just like the articles of Dian Mo's exhortations.
There were appointed Grand Sima Siyun, Grand Situ Sizhi, and Grand Situ Kong Siruo, all of whom were appointed as Guqing.
Da Sinong was renamed Xihe, and later Nayan, Dali was renamed Zuoshi, Taichang was renamed Zhizhong, Dahonglu was renamed Dianle, the Shaofu was renamed Gonggong, and the Shuiheng Duwei was renamed Yuyu. In addition, the three company ministers were renamed nine ministers in total, and they were placed under the jurisdiction of the three princes.
There are three officials under each minister, and three officials under each official. A total of twenty-seven officials and eighty-one officials are in charge of all the duties of various government offices in the capital.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
更名光禄勋曰司中，太仆曰太御，卫尉曰太卫，执金吾曰奋武，中尉曰军正，又置大赘官，主乘舆服御物，后又典兵秩，位皆上卿，号曰六监。
改郡太守曰大尹，都尉曰太尉，县令长曰宰，御史曰执法，公车司马曰王路四门，长乐宫曰常乐室，未央宫曰寿成室，前殿曰王路堂，长安曰常安。
更名秩百名曰庶士，三百石曰下士，四百石曰中士，五百石曰命士，六百石曰元士，千石曰下大夫，比二千石曰中大夫，二千石曰上大夫，中二千石曰卿。
车服黻冕，各有差品。
又置司恭、司徒、司明、司聪、司中大夫及诵诗工、彻膳宰，以司过。
策曰： 予闻上圣欲昭厥德，罔不慎修厥身，用绥于远，是用建尔司于五事。
毋隐尤，毋将虚，好恶不愆，立于厥中。
於戏，勖哉！ 令王路设进善之旌，非谤之木，敢谏之鼓。
谏大夫四人常坐王路门受言事者。
封王氏齐縗之属为侯，大功为伯，小功为子，緦麻为男，其女皆为任。
男以 睦 、女以 隆 为号焉，皆授印韨。
令诸侯立太夫人、夫人、世子，亦受印韨。
又曰： 天无二日，土无二王，百王不易这道也。
汉氏诸侯或称王，至于四夷亦如之，违于古典，缪于一统。
其定诸侯王之号皆称公，及四夷僣号称王者皆更为侯。
又曰： 帝王之道，相因而通；盛德之祚，百世享祀。
予惟黄帝、帝少昊、帝颛顼、帝喾、帝尧、帝舜、帝夏禹、皋陶、伊尹咸有圣德，假于皇天，功烈巍巍，光施于远。
translation: 
Guang Luxun was renamed Sizhong, the imperial servant was renamed Taiyu, the Weiwei was renamed Taiwei, Zhijinwu was renamed Fenwu, the lieutenant was renamed Junzheng, and a large official was set up to be in charge of the emperor's vehicles, clothes and utensils, and later in charge of military supplies. The positions were all senior ministers, called the Sixth Supervisor.
The prefect of the county was renamed Taiyin, the captain was renamed Taiwei, the county magistrate and magistrate were renamed Zai, the censor was renamed Enforcement, the carriage driver was renamed Wanglu Simen, Changle Palace was renamed Changleshi, Weiyang Palace was renamed Shouchengshi, the front hall was renamed Wanglutang, and Chang'an was renamed Chang'an.
The people with a salary of 100 stones were renamed common people, those with a salary of 300 stones were renamed corporals, those with a salary of 400 stones were renamed sergeants, those with a salary of 500 stones were renamed Mingshi, those with a salary of 600 stones were renamed yuanshi, those with a thousand stones were renamed xiaodafu, those with 2000 stones were renamed middle doctors, 2000 stones were renamed shangdafu, and those with 2000 stones were renamed qing.
The carriages, horses, dresses, and hats they use all have different levels.
Doctors Sigong, Situ, Siming, Sicong, Sizhong, poetry reciters, and Che Shanzai were also appointed to detect faults.
The policy book said: I heard that the Sage wanted to demonstrate his virtue and cultivate his body and mind carefully to carry it out for a long time. Therefore, I set up officials like you to supervise in five aspects.
Don't cover up your mistakes, don't encourage vanity, so that you can make no mistakes in your own likes and dislikes, stand in the center of truth, and be selfless. Ouch, that’s encouraging!
Flags of suggestions, wooden signs of criticism and drums were ordered to be set up around the palace.
The four officials who were sent to remonstrate often sat at the four gates of Wang Road to receive people who reported the situation.
Relatives of the royal family who have been in mourning for one year are given the title of marquis, relatives who have been in mourning for nine months are called earls, relatives who have been in mourning for five months are called viscounts, relatives who have been in mourning for three months are called barons, and all female relatives above are granted the title of nobility.
Men use the character "mu" as their title, and women use the character "long" as their title, and both are awarded seals.
Let the princes establish wives, wives and princes, and also grant seals.
He also said: There are no two suns in the sky, and there are no two kings on the earth. This is a principle that cannot be changed by emperors for generations.
Some of the princes of the Han Dynasty were called kings, until foreigners from all over the world also imitated the title of king, which violated the ancient system and deviated from the principle of unification.
It should be ensured that the names of princes and kings are all called Gong, and that the names of foreigners from all over the world who steal their names and call themselves kings are changed to Hou.
He also said: The emperor's lineage should be inherited, developed and integrated; the lineage with noble virtues should enjoy sacrifices for a long time.
I thought that Huangdi, Shaohao, Zhuanxu, Diru, Yao of Tang, Yushun, Xia Yu, Gaotao and Yiyin all had sage virtues. They were connected to heaven, their achievements were majestic, and their glory spread for a long time.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
予甚嘉之，营求其后，将祚厥祀。
惟王氏，虞帝之后也，出自帝喾；刘氏，尧之后也，出自颛顼。
于是封姚恂为初睦侯，奉黄帝后；梁护为脩远伯，奉少昊后；皇孙功隆公千，奉帝喾后；刘歆为祁烈伯，奉颛顼后；国师刘歆子叠为伊休侯，奉尧后；妫昌为始睦侯，奉虞帝后；山遵为褒谋子，奉皋陶后；伊玄为褒衡子，奉伊尹后。
汉后定安公刘婴，位为宾。
周后卫公姬党，更封为章平公，亦为宾。
殷后宋公孔弘，运转次移，更封为章昭侯，位为恪。
夏后辽西姒丰，封为章功侯，亦为恪。
四代古宗，宗祀于明堂，以配皇始祖考虞帝。
周公后褒鲁子姬就、宣尼公后褒成子孔钧，已前定焉。
莽又曰： 予前在摄时，建郊宫，定祧庙，立社稷，神祇报况，或光自上复于下，流为乌，或典气熏烝，昭耀章明，以著黄、虞之烈焉。
自黄帝至于济南伯王，高祖世氏姓有五矣。
黄帝二十五子，分赐厥姓十有二氏。
虞帝之先，受姓曰姚，其在陶唐曰妫，在周曰陈，在齐曰田，在济南曰王。
予伏念皇初祖考黄帝，皇始祖考虞帝，以宗祀于明堂，宜序于祖宗之亲庙。
其立祖庙五，亲庙四，后夫人皆配食。
郊祀黄帝以配天，黄后以配地。
以新都侯东弟为大禖，岁时以祀。
家之所尚，种祀天下。
姚、妫、陈、田、王氏凡五姓者，皆黄、虞苗裔，予之同族也。
《书》不云乎？ 惇序九族 。其令天下上此五姓名籍于秩宗，皆以为宗室。
世世复，无有所与。
其元城王氏，勿令相嫁娶，以别族理亲焉。
封陈崇为统睦侯，奉胡王后；田丰为世睦侯，奉敬王后。
天下牧守皆以前有翟义、赵明等领州郡，怀忠孝，封牧为男，守以附城。
又封旧恩戴崇、金涉、箕闳、杨并等子皆为男。
遣骑都尉嚣等分治黄帝园位于上都桥畤，虞帝于零陵九疑，胡王于淮阳陈，敬王于齐临淄，愍王于城阳莒，伯王于济南东平陵，孺王于魏郡元城，使者四时致祠。
其庙当作者，以天下初定，且祫祭于明堂太庙。
以汉高庙为文祖庙。
莽曰： 予之皇始祖考虞帝受嬗于唐，汉氏初祖唐帝，世有传国之象，予复亲受金策于汉高皇帝之灵。
惟思褒厚前代，何有忘时？
汉氏祖宗有七，以礼立庙于定安国。
translation: 
I admire them, seek their descendants, and intend to continue their sacrifices.
He believed that the surname Wang was a descendant of Yu Shun and came from imperial learning; the surname Liu was a descendant of Tang Yao and came from Zhuan Xu.
So Yao Xun was granted the title of Marquis of Chumu, the descendant of the Yellow Emperor; Liang Hu was the descendant of Xiu Yuanbo, the descendant of Shaowu; the grandson of the emperor Gonglong Gongwang Qian was the descendant of the emperor; Liu Xin was the descendant of Qi Liebo, the descendant of Zhuan Xu; the country Liu Xin's son Liu Die was Yixiuhou and inherited the descendants of Tang Yao; Machang was Shimuhou and inherited the descendants of Yu Shun; Shan Zun was Baomou's son and inherited Gaotao's descendants; Yixuan was Baohengzi and inherited Yiyin's descendants.
Liu Ying, the descendant of the Han Dynasty, Ding'an Gong, was a state guest.
Ji Dang, a descendant of Duke Wei of the Zhou Dynasty, was renamed Duke Zhang Ping and was also a state guest.
Song Gong Kong Hong, a descendant of the Yin Dynasty, had his fortune changed and his position moved. He was renamed Zhang Zhaohou and his status was that of a distinguished guest.
Si Feng, a descendant of the Xia Dynasty from Liaoxi County, was granted the title of Zhang Gonghou and was also an honored guest.
The ancestors of the Xia, Yin, Zhou, and Han dynasties were worshiped together in the Mingtang, and they were allowed to follow the great imperial ancestor Yu Shun to share.
The descendants of Zhou Gong praised Lu Zi Ji Ji, and the descendants of Confucius praised Cheng Zi Ji Gou. It has been determined before.
Wang Mang continued: When I was the regent, I built suburban sacrificial altar sites, established ancestral temples, and set up Tugu Shrine. The gods repaid me with brilliance from above covering the bottom, flowing down and turning into old crows, and yellow air rising and shining brightly to highlight the afterglow of Huangdi and Yushun.
From the Yellow Emperor to King Bo of Jinan, there were five surnames of our ancestors.
Huangdi had twenty-five sons and gave them twelve surnames.
The surname accepted by the ancestors of Yu and Shun was Yao. In the Tao and Tang Dynasties, the surname was Yu, in the Zhou Dynasty, the surname was Chen, in Qi State, the surname was Tian, ​​and in Jinan, the surname was Wang.
I prostrate myself in memory of the great emperor Kao Huangdi, and the great emperor Kao Yushun. They have been worshiped together in the Mingtang, and they should also be included in the ancestors' temples.
Five ancestral temples and four ancestral temples should be built, and their queens or wives should all enjoy them.
When offering sacrifices to heaven and earth, let the Yellow Emperor share with the sky, and let the Yellow Queen share with the earth.
The east residence of Xin Duhou was used as the Ancestral Temple, and sacrifices were made on time every two years.
The ancestors respected by the people should also be worshiped from generation to generation. The imperial court has set an example for the whole country.
People with the five surnames of Yao, Ma, Chen, Tian, ​​and Wang are all descendants of Huangdi and Yushun, and they all belong to my clan.
Didn’t the Book of Books say it? In order to promote love and harmony among the nine clans, all parts of the country should be ordered to report the names of these five surnames to the Zhizong clan and treat them as royal clans.
Grant them immunity from taxation and labor for generations to come, and have nothing to do with it.
Among them, the Wang surname in Yuancheng County is not allowed to marry each other with the surnames Yao, Yan, Chen, and Tian, ​​so as to distinguish clans and separate relatives.
Chen Chong was granted the title of Tongmuhou to inherit the descendants of King Hu; Tian Feng was granted the title of Shimuhou to inherit the descendants of King Jing.
Because of the rebellion of Zhai Yi, Tang Ming and others in the past, the state pastors and county governors across the country were able to occupy their states and counties. They were loyal and filial, and granted the governors the title of baron and the governor the title of annexed city.
He also granted the title of baron to the sons of his old benefactors Dai Chong, Jin She, Ji Hong and Yang Bing.
They sent Weixiao and others from Qidu to repair the Yellow Emperor's tomb in Shangdu Bridge, Yu Shun's tomb in Jiuyi, Lingling County, King Hu's tomb in Chen County, Huaiyang County, King Jing's tomb in Linzi County, Qi County, King Min's tomb in Ju County, Chengyang State, King Bo's tomb in Shupingling County, Jinan County, and King Ru's tomb in Yuancheng County, Wei County, and envoys were sent to offer sacrifices according to the seasons.
Their ancestral temple should be built, because the country has just been pacified, and for the time being, joint sacrifices will be held in the Mingtang Ancestral Temple.
Take Han Gaodi Temple as Wenzu Temple.
Wang Mang said: My great emperor Kao Yushun accepted the ceded political power from Tang Yao. The early ancestor of the Han Dynasty was Tang Yao.
I want to praise and treat the previous dynasty, how can I forget it?
There were seven ancestors of the Han Dynasty, and ancestral temples should be built in Ding'an State according to etiquette.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其园寝庙在京师者，勿罢，祠荐如故。
予以秋九月亲入汉氏高、元、成、平之庙。
诸刘更属籍京兆大尹，勿解其复，各终厥身，州牧数存问，勿令有侵冤。
又曰： 予前在大麓，至于摄假，深惟汉氏三七之厄，赤德气尽，思索广求，所以辅刘延期之术，靡所不用，以故作金刀之利，几以济之。
然自孔子作《春秋》以为后王法，至于哀之十四而一代毕，协之于今，亦哀之十四也。
赤世计尽，终不可强济。
皇天明威，黄德当兴，隆显大命，属予以天下。
今百姓咸言皇天革汉而立新，废刘而兴王。
夫 刘 之为字 卯、金、刀 也，正月刚卯，金刀之利，皆不得行。
博谋卿士，佥曰天人同应，昭然著明。
其去刚卯莫以为佩，除刀钱勿以为利，承顺天心，快百姓意。
乃更作小钱，径六分，重一铢，文曰 小钱直一 ，与前 大钱五十 者为二品，并行。
欲防民盗铸，乃禁不得挟铜炭。
四月，徐乡侯刘快结党数千人起兵于其国。
快兄殷，故汉胶东王，时改为扶崇公。
快举兵攻即墨，殷闭城门，自系狱。
吏民距快，快败走，至长广死。
莽曰： 昔予之祖济南愍王困于燕寇，自齐临淄出保于莒。
宗人田单广设奇谋，获杀燕将，复定齐国。
今即墨士大夫复同心殄灭反虏，予甚嘉其忠者，怜其无辜。
其赦殷等，非快之妻子它亲属当坐者皆勿治。
吊问死伤，赐亡者葬钱，人五万。
殷知大命，深疾恶快，以故辄伏厥辜。
其满殷国户万，地方百里。
translation: 
The temples attached to their cemeteries in the capital should not be abolished, and the sacrifices should continue as before.
I will personally go to the ancestral temples of Emperor Gao, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, and Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty to offer sacrifices in September in autumn.
The names of the royal families surnamed Liu were transferred to the management of Jingzhao Dayin. Their privileges of exemption from taxes and labor should not be revoked. They should be limited to themselves. The state pastor should often go to condolences and prevent them from being wronged and persecuted.
He also said: When I held an important position until I became the regent, I deeply considered the misfortune of the Han Dynasty in the past 210 years. The fate of the Han Dynasty had come to an end. I tried every means to assist the Liu family in extending the life of the regime. Therefore the convenience of making gold-knife currency is hoped to benefit it.
However, since Confucius wrote the "Spring and Autumn" as a guideline for future emperors, an era came to an end in the fourteenth year of Duke Ai of Lu. To compare with today, it was also the fourteenth year since Emperor Mo Ai.
The life span of the Han Dynasty has come to an end, and it cannot be saved reluctantly.
The heaven is so powerful that the destiny of the new dynasty should arise, solemnly display the great command, and entrust the rule of the country to me.
Now the people are saying that God will eradicate the Han Dynasty, establish a new dynasty, abandon the Liu family, and revitalize the Wang family.
The shape and structure of the characters "Liu" are "mao", "gold" and "dao", so the ornaments of "mao" in the first month of the first month and the convenience of gold "dao" currency are no longer allowed.
I have extensively solicited the opinions of officials and officials, and they all agree that it is very clear that the laws of nature and human affairs are interdependent with each other.
We should take off the sword and don't use it as an ornament, and abolish the sword and money and don't use it as a convenience. In this way, we can follow the will of God and satisfy the people's wishes.
So they recast small coins with a diameter of six cents and a weight of one baht, with the words "small coins straight to one" cast on them. In addition to the previous large coins of fifty cents, they were divided into two categories and circulated at the same time.
In order to prevent private casting of copper and charcoal by the private sector, a ban was issued prohibiting private possession of copper and charcoal.
In April, Liu Kuai, the Marquis of Xuxiang, gathered thousands of his party members to form an army in his feudal country.
Liu Kuai's elder brother Liu Yin was the original Micellar King of the Han Dynasty, but at this time he had been changed to Fuchong Gong.
Liu Kuai raised his troops to attack Jimo City, and Liu Yin closed the city gates and threw himself into prison.
The officials and people in the city resisted Liu Kuai, but Liu Kuai failed and fled, retreated to Changguang County and died.
Wang Mang said: Once upon a time, my ancestor King Min of Jinan was besieged by Yan invaders and retreated from Linzi, the capital of Qi State, to Juyi to protect himself.
Tian Dan, a tribesman, came up with many good strategies, captured and killed the generals of Yan State, and re-established Qi State.
Now the scholar-bureaucrats in Jimo City are working together to annihilate the rebels. I highly praise those who are loyal and pity those who are innocent.
Liu Yin and others should be pardoned, and except for Liu Kuai's wife and children, other relatives who should not even be punished should be punished.
Condolences to the deceased, condolences to the injured, and rewards for funeral expenses of 50,000 yuan per person.
Liu Yin understood destiny and deeply hated Liu Kuai. Liu Kuai received the punishment he deserved for this reason.
Liu Yin's feudal state should be satisfied with 10,000 households and a land of 100 miles in length and width.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
又封符命臣十余人。
莽曰： 古者，设庐井八家，一夫一妇田百亩，什一而税，则国给民富而颂声作。
此唐、虞之道，三代所遵行也。
秦为无道，厚赋税以自供奉，罢民力以极欲，坏圣制，废井田，是以兼并起，贪鄙生，强者规田以千数，弱者曾无立锥之居。
又置奴婢之市，与牛马同兰，制于民臣，颛断其命。
奸虐之人因缘为利，至略卖人妻子，逆天心，悖人伦，缪于 天地之性人为贵 之义。
《书》曰 予则奴戮女 ，唯不用命者，然后被此辜矣。
汉氏减轻田租，三十而税一，常有更赋，罢癃咸出，而豪民侵陵，分田劫假。
厥名三十税一，实什税五也。
父子夫妇终年耕芸，所得不足以自存。
故富者犬马余菽粟，骄而为邪；贫者不厌糟糠，穷而为奸。
俱陷于辜，刑用不错。
予前在大麓，始令天下公田口井，时则有嘉禾之祥，遭以虏逆贼且止。
今更名天下田曰 王田 ，奴婢曰 私属 ，皆不得卖买。
其男口不盈八，而田过一井者，分余田予九族邻里乡党。
故无田，今当受田者，如制度。
敢有非井田圣制，无法惑众者，投诸四裔，以御魑魅，如皇始祖考虞帝故事。
是时，百姓便安汉五铢钱，以莽钱大小两行难知，又数变改不信，皆私以五铢钱市买。
讹言大钱当罢，莫肯挟。
莽患之。复下书： 诸挟五铢钱，言大钱当罢者，比非井田制，投四裔。
于是农商失业，食货俱废，民人至涕泣于市道。
及坐卖买田宅、奴婢，铸钱，自诸侯、卿、大夫至于庶民，抵罪者不可胜数。
translation: 
He also awarded rewards to more than ten ministers who contributed talismans.
Wang Mang said: In ancient times, eight families worked on the same well field and lived in the same shed while farming. One husband and one woman divided the field of 100 acres and paid one-tenth of the rent and tax. The country would be rich and the people would be rich, so public opinion arose to praise it.
This was the policy of the Tang and Yu dynasties and followed by the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
The Qin Dynasty was brutal and cruel. It increased taxes to provide for its own enjoyment, exhausted the people's resources to satisfy their endless desires, destroyed the system of saints, and abolished well fields. As a result, the phenomenon of wealthy people taking over the property of poor people appeared, and greedy and despicable behaviors occurred. It took thousands to count the land occupied by the strong, but the weak had no place to stand.
He also set up a market for buying and selling slaves and slaves, sharing the stalls with cattle and horses, controlling common people and slaves, and tyrannically controlling their destiny.
The treacherous and cruel people use these methods to make profits, and even rob and sell other people's wives and children. They defy the will of God, violate the norms of relationships between people, and violate the most noble principles of life in heaven and earth.
"The Book of Books" says that I will enslave and humiliate you. Only those who disobey orders will suffer such sins.
The Han Dynasty reduced the land tax and levied it at 1/30, but there was often a service tax, and those who were sick and disabled and lost their labor had to pay, and bullies invaded and oppressed, taking advantage of the tenancy relationship to plunder property.
It was nominally taxed at one-thirtieth, but in reality it levied a tax of five-tenths.
The father and son couple work in the fields all year round, and the income they earn is not enough to sustain themselves.
Therefore, the rich have an endless supply of grain for their livestock and do evil things because of their pride and luxury; the poor do not have access to wine dregs and chaff, so they do evil things because of poverty.
They were all involved in crimes, and therefore their punishment could not be put aside.
When I held an important position in the past, I began to order the public land across the country to be planned according to population. At that time, the auspiciousness of Jiahe appeared, but it was temporarily suspended due to interference from rebels and rebel leaders.
Now the fields in the country are renamed "Wang Tian", and the slaves are called "Private Ownership", and they are not allowed to buy or sell.
For families with less than eight males and more than one well, the extra acres will be divided among relatives and neighbors.
Those who did not have a field before but should be allocated a field now should do so in accordance with the regulations.
Those who dare to oppose the system pioneered by saints like Ida and ignore the law and confuse the people will be exiled to far away places in the four directions, so as to eliminate bad guys and follow the example of the great emperor Yu Shun in punishing the four evil spirits.
At this time, the people were accustomed to using the five-baht coins of the Han Dynasty. They thought it was difficult to recognize Wang Mang's money, both large and small, circulating at the same time. He also changed and broke his promise many times, so they secretly used five-baht coins to buy and sell.
Rumor has it that the Big Money Society is going to be abolished, and no one is willing to carry it.
Wang Mang was worried about the incident, so he issued a further notice: Anyone who secretly hid five baht coins and said that the big money society will be abolished will be punished in the same way as those who oppose the well-field system, and will be exiled to far away places in the four directions.
As a result, farmers and businessmen lost their jobs, the financial economy was paralyzed, and people even shed tears in the market and on the road.
As well as buying and selling land, houses, slaves and making money privately, countless people from princes, ministers and officials to common people were punished for their crimes.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
秋，遣五威将王奇等十二人班《符命》四十二篇于天下。
德祥五事，符命二十五，福应十二，凡四十二篇。
其德祥言文、宣之世黄龙见于成纪、新都，高祖考王伯墓门梓柱生枝叶之属。
符命言井石、金匮之属。
福应言雌鸡化为雄之属。
其文尔雅依托，皆为作说，大归言莽当代汉有天下云。
总有说之曰： 帝王受命，必有德祥之符瑞，协成五命，申以福应，然后能立巍巍之功，传于子孙，永享无穷之祚。
故新室之兴也，德祥发于汉三七九世之后。
肇命于新都，受瑞于黄支，开王于威功，定命于子同，成命于巴宕，申福于十二应，天所以保祐新室者深矣，固矣！
武功丹石出于汉氏平帝末年，火德销尽，土德当代，皇天眷然，去汉与新，以丹石始命于皇帝。
皇帝谦让，以摄居之，未当天意，故其秋七月，天重以三能文马。
皇帝复谦让，未即位，故三以铁契，四以石龟，五以虞符，六以文圭，七以玄印，八以茂陵石书，九以玄龙石，十以神井，十一以大神石，十二以铜符帛图。
申命之瑞，浸以显著，至于十二，以昭告新皇帝。
皇帝深惟上天之威不可不畏，故去摄号，犹尚称假，改元为初始，欲以承塞天命，克厌上帝之心。
然非皇天所以郑重降符命之意，故是日天复决以龟书。
又侍郎王盱见人衣白布单衣，赤缋方领，冠小冠，立于王路殿前，谓盱曰： 今日天同色，以天下人民属皇帝。 盱怪之，行十余步，人忽不见。
至丙寅暮，汉氏高庙有金匮图策： 高帝承天命，以国传新皇帝。 明旦，宗伯忠孝侯刘宏以闻，乃召公卿议，未决，而大神石人谈曰： 趣新皇帝之高庙受命。
毋留！ 于是新皇帝立登车，之汉氏高庙受命，受命之日，丁卯也。丁，火，汉氏之德也。
卯，刘姓所以为字也。
明汉刘火德尽，而传于新室也。
皇帝谦谦，既备固让，十二符应迫著，命不可辞，惧然祗畏，苇然闵汉氏之终不可济，亹亹左右之不得从意，为之三夜不御寝，三日不御食。
延问公侯卿大夫，佥曰： 宜奉如上天威命。
于是乃改元定号，海内更始。
新室既定，神祗欢喜，申以福应，吉瑞累仍。
《诗》曰： 宜民宜人，受禄于天；保右命之，自天申之。
translation: 
In the autumn, twelve people including Wang Qi, the five mighty general, were sent to promulgate the forty-two chapters of "Fu Ming" throughout the country.
There are five chapters on virtues and auspiciousness, twenty-five chapters on fortune-telling, and twelve on blessings and blessings, for a total of forty-two chapters.
Among them, Dexiang said that during the period of Emperor Wen and Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, yellow dragons appeared in Chengji County and Xindu County, and branches and leaves grew on the catalpa pillars at the gate of the tomb of Emperor Gaozu Kao Wangbo.
The talisman category talks about things like the well stone in Wugong County and the plans for the golden cabinet in Gaodi Temple.
Fu Ying Lei talks about things like a hen turning into a rooster.
Those articles are close to official scriptures, and they all explain based on ancient meanings. They roughly say that Wang Mang should rule the country in place of the Han Dynasty.
To sum up, they say: When an emperor receives the destiny of heaven, he must have signs of auspiciousness obtained by relying on virtue, which together form the five destiny, plus the retribution obtained by relying on blessings. Only then can he establish great and noble achievements, pass them on to future generations, and enjoy endless national glory forever.
Therefore, the rise of the new dynasty and Dexiang occurred after the ninth generation of the Han Dynasty, after 210 years.
From the initial appointment of the new capital, the auspiciousness from Huang Zhiguo, the founding of the royal family in Wugong County, the decision to accept the appointment from Zitong County, and the completion of the appointment in Yanqu County, Bajun, plus twelve blessings, God's attitude in blessing the new dynasty is both sincere and resolute!
The white stone with alchemy script in Wugong County appeared in the last years of Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty. The fate of the Han Dynasty was almost over, and the power of the new dynasty should take its place. God was so concerned that it abandoned the Han Dynasty and supported the new dynasty, and began to use the white stone with alchemy script to grant orders to the emperor.
The emperor humbly declined, and assuming the throne in the name of Emperor She was still not in line with God's will. Therefore, in July of that autumn, God added Santai Star and Wenma.
The emperor humbly declined again and did not ascend the throne, so the Iron Deed appeared for the third time, the Stone Turtle appeared for the fourth time, the Yu Fu appeared for the sixth time, Wen Gui appeared for the sixth time, the Xuan Yin appeared for the seventh time, the Maoling Stone Book appeared for the eighth time, the Xuanlong Stone appeared for the ninth time, the Divine Well appeared for the tenth time, the Great Divine Stone appeared for the eleventh time, and the Bronze Talisman and Silk Diagram appeared for the twelfth time.
The auspiciousness that declared the destiny gradually became more prominent, until it was used to clearly announce the new emperor twelve times.
The emperor deeply thought that he could not be unafraid of the majesty of God, so he removed the title of Emperor She, or called him a false emperor, and changed the name of the year to the beginning, hoping to use this method to resist the destiny and satisfy God's will.
But sending him away was not the intention of God, who repeatedly and earnestly granted him the talisman, so on this day, God sent him a gold policy book to resolve his doubts and encourage him to become emperor.
Also, Wang Xu, the minister, saw a man wearing a white cloth single coat with a square collar with flaming red paintings and a small hat, standing in front of the Wanglu Palace. He told Wang Xu: Today the five gods have united and entrusted all the people to the emperor. Wang Xu was surprised. After walking more than ten steps, the man suddenly disappeared.
By the evening of Bingyin day, a golden cabinet plan appeared in the Gaodi Temple of the Han Dynasty: Emperor Gaodi upheld the destiny and passed the country to the new emperor. The next morning, Zongbo Zhongxiao Marquis Liu Hong reported the matter and summoned the ministers to discuss it. A decision had not yet been made, but the great god stone spoke like a human being: Quickly ask the new emperor to go to Gaodi Temple to accept the destiny, don't delay!
So the new emperor immediately got in the car and went to the Gaodi Temple of the Han Dynasty to accept his destiny. The day of accepting the destiny is Dingmao day. Ding belongs to fire and is a symbol of the fate of the Han Dynasty.
Mao is part of the character Liu.
This shows that the fate of the Liu surname in the Han Dynasty is over, and the luck has spread to the new dynasty.
The emperor was humble and resigned. He had resolutely declined in many ways. He was urged and urged twelve times. He could not refuse the destiny. He was surprised, awe and uneasy. His pity for the Han Dynasty was finally irreversible. He tried every means to help it but could not do it. For this matter, he did not sleep for three nights and did not eat for three days.
When I met and asked the princes and scholar-officials, they all said: "The command of God should be carried out."
So the year name was changed, the country name was determined, and the whole country was updated.
Once the new dynasty is established, the gods are happy and again send blessings and auspiciousness one after another.
The Book of Songs says: A person who has meritorious deeds and is loved by the people will be able to receive blessings from heaven; God will bless him, grant him the high position of emperor, and affirm this meaning.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
此之谓也。
五威将奉《符命》，赍印绶，王侯以下及吏官名更者，外及匈奴、西域，徼外蛮夷，皆即授新室印绶，因收故汉印绶。
赐吏爵人二级，民爵人一级，女子百户羊、酒、蛮夷币、帛各有差。
大赦天下。
五威将乘《乾》文车，驾《坤》六马，背负鷩鸟之毛，服饰甚伟。
每一将各置左右前后中帅，凡五帅。
衣冠车服驾马，各如其方面色数。
将持节，称太一之使；帅持幢，称五帝之使。
莽策命曰： 普天之下，迄于四表，靡所不至。
其东出者，至玄菟、乐浪、高句骊、夫馀；南出者，逾徼外，历益州，贬句町王为侯；西出者，至西域，尽改其王为侯；北出者，至匈奴庭，授单于印，改汉印文，去 玺 曰 章 。
单于欲求故印，陈饶椎破之。语在《匈奴传》。
单于大怒，而句町、西域后卒以此皆畔。
饶还，拜为大将军，封威德子。
冬，雷，桐华。
置五威司命，中城四关将军。
司命司上公以下，中城主十二城门。
策命统睦侯陈崇曰： 咨尔崇。
夫不用命者，乱之原也；大奸猾者，贼之本也；铸伪金钱者，妨宝货之道也；骄奢逾制者，凶害之端也；漏泄省中及尚书事者， 机事不密则害成 也；拜爵王庭，谢恩私门者，禄去公室，政从亡矣：凡此六条，国之纲纪。
是用建尔作司命， 柔亦不茹，刚亦不吐，不侮鳏寡，不畏强圉 ，帝命帅由，统睦于朝。
命说符侯崔发曰：  重门击柝，以待暴客。 女作五威中城将军，中德既成，天下说符。
命明威侯王级曰： 绕霤之固，南当荆楚。
女作五威前关将军，振武奋卫，明威于前。
命尉睦侯王嘉曰： 羊头之厄，北当燕、赵。
女作五威后关将军，壶口捶扼，尉睦于后。
命掌威侯王奇曰： 肴、黾之险，东当郑、卫。
女作五威左关将军，函谷批难，掌威于左。
命怀羌子王福曰： 汧陇之阻，西当戎狄。
女作五威右关将军，成固据守地，怀羌于右。
translation: 
That's the case.
The five mighty generals respectfully held the "Fu Ming" and the seal, and changed the official names of the princes and officials below. Foreign countries as far away as the Xiongnu, countries in the Western Regions, and foreign nations beyond the borders were all granted the seal of the new dynasty on the spot, and collected the original seal of the Han Dynasty.
Each official will be rewarded with a two-level title, each head of a household will be rewarded with a first-level title, housewives will be rewarded with sheep and wine, and the rewards will be distributed in units of 100 households. Rewarding foreign property will have different levels.
A national amnesty was declared.
The five mighty generals sit in a chariot painted with astronomical images, harnessed to six mares, with golden pheasant feathers on their backs, and their costumes and accessories are very majestic.
Under each general there are five commanders: left commander, right commander, front commander, rear commander and middle commander.
The colors and numbers of the clothing, chariot ornaments, and harness horses are according to their positions.
The five mighty generals holding envoys are called the envoys of the Heavenly Emperor Taiyi; the five commanders holding flags are called the envoys of the five emperors respectively.
Wang Mang wrote a policy letter saying: There is no place in the whole world that cannot be reached, even to the farthest places around.
Those who went to the east reached Xuantu County, Lelang County, Gaoguli Kingdom and Fuyu Kingdom; those who went to the south crossed the border, passed through Yizhou County, and demoted the king of Jiangouding to be a marquis; those who went to the west reached the Western Regions, and changed all the kings there to marquis; those who went to the north arrived at the court of the Xiongnu, granted the Chanyu seal, changed the text of the Han Dynasty seal, removed the seal and changed it to Zhang.
The Chanyu wanted to get the original seal, but Chen Nao smashed it with vertebrae. These words are recorded in "The Biography of the Xiongnu".
Shan Yu was furious, and Gouding and other countries in the Western Regions finally betrayed him because of this.
When Chen Rao came back, he was appointed as a general and given the title of Weidezi.
Winter is coming, there is thunder, and the tung trees are blooming.
Set up Wuwei Siming and Zhongcheng Siguan generals.
Wuwei Si ordered to picket and impeach officials below the rank of Shanggong, and Wuwei Zhongcheng General was in charge of the twelve gates of the capital.
I issued a policy letter and ordered Tongmuhou Chen Chongdao: Alas!
You, Chen Chong, must know that disobeying orders is the source of disaster; being unusually cunning and cunning is the source of insidiousness; casting counterfeit money is an act of harming currency; arrogance and extravagance, exceeding the system, is the beginning of evil; leaking the secrets of the provincial monks Secrets, leakage of important secrets will hinder success; from the court accepting an official title to a private person to express gratitude, the power of appointing officials and conferring titles is not held by the court, and the political power will decline from then on: In summary, these six articles are the fundamental laws of the country.
Therefore, you are appointed as the Commander of the Five Powers. You will not swallow anything soft, nor spit out anything hard. You will not bully the weak, and you will not be afraid of violence. The emperor orders you to obey the orders and control all the officials in the court so that they can abide by the law.
The order said Fuhou Cuifa said: Close the multi-layered door and patrol at night to guard against thieves. As the general of Wuwei Central City, the security guard mission of the capital has been completed, and it has set an example for the security and protection work across the country.
He ordered Mingwei Houwang to say: "Seven coils and twelve coils are strong, facing the old land of the ancient kingdoms of Jing and Chu in the south."
You are a five-power general in front of the pass, display your bravery, defend with all your strength, and show your majesty in the front.
He ordered Wei Muhou Wang Jiaqi to say: "The dangerous location of Yangtou Mountain is facing the old lands of Yan and Zhao to the north."
As the general of Wuwei Houguan Pass, you will attack according to the danger of Hukou Pass and pacify the rear.
The commanding officer Wang Qi said: "The dangerous points of Mount Wei and Mianchi are facing the old places of Zheng and Wei."
You will be the Five Powerful General of Zuuguan, guard Hangu Pass to eliminate danger, and exercise authority on the left wing.
He ordered Wang Fudao, Huai Qiangzi: "Yishan and Longban are blocked, facing Xirong and Beidi to the west."
You will be the Five Powerful General of Youguan, guard Chenggu County, and pacify the foreigners on the right wing.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又遣谏大夫五十人分铸钱于郡国。
是岁，长安狂女子碧呼道中曰： 高皇帝大怒，趣归我国。
不者，九月必杀汝！
莽收捕杀之。
治者掌寇大夫陈咸自免去官。
真定刘都等谋举兵，发觉，皆诛。
真定、常山大雨雹。
二年二月，赦天下。
五威将帅七十二人还奏事，汉诸侯王为公者，悉上玺绶为民，无违命者。
封将为子，帅为男。
初设六管之令。
命县官酤酒，卖盐铁器，铸钱，诸采取名山大泽众物者税之。
又令市官收贱卖贵，赊贷予民，收息百月三。
牺和置酒士，郡一人，乘传督酒利，禁民不得挟弩铠，徙西海。
匈奴单于求故玺，莽不与，遂寇边郡，杀略吏民。
十一月，立国将军建奏： 西域将钦上言，九月辛已，戊己校尉中陈良、终带共贼杀校尉刁护，劫略吏士，自称废汉大将军，亡入匈奴。
又今月癸酉，不知何一男子遮臣建车前，自称 汉氏刘子舆，成帝下妻子也。
刘氏当复，趣空宫。
收系男子，即常安姓武字仲。
皆逆天违命，大逆无道。
请论仲及陈良等亲属当坐者。
奏可。
汉氏高皇帝比著戒云，罢吏卒，为宾食，诚欲承天心，全子孙也。
其宗庙不当在常安城中，及诸刘为诸侯者当与汉俱废。
陛下至仁，久未定。
前故安众侯刘崇、徐乡侯刘快、陵乡侯刘曾、扶恩侯刘贵等更聚众谋反。
translation: 
He also sent fifty people to admonish the officials to mint coins in various counties.
This year, on January 3, a madwoman named Bi shouted on the road: Emperor Gao is very angry, please return the country to me quickly.
Otherwise, I will kill you by September!
Wang Ling arrested her and killed her.
Susheng, the official in charge of the government affairs, took the initiative to resign and lost his official position.
Liu Du and others of the Zhending Kingdom planned to raise an army, but were discovered and executed.
Heavy hail fell in Zhending and Changshan counties.
In February of the following year, a nationwide amnesty was announced.
Seventy-two generals from the Five Powers came back to report on their work. The princes and kings of the Han Dynasty removed their royal titles and changed their titles to public ones. They all handed over their seals and became commoners. No one disobeyed the order.
The general will be granted the title of viscount, and the commander will be granted the title of baron.
Six financial and economic management systems were established.
It was stipulated that the government would exclusively sell wine, salt and ironware, and make money. Those who exploited and harvested various resources from mountains and lakes would be taxed.
It also stipulates that city officials purchase low-priced goods, sell high-priced goods, and issue loans to the people at a monthly interest rate of 3%.
Xi and his subordinates set up wine men, one for each county, to ride in chariots to collect the profits from wine sales. They issued a ban on private possession of crossbows and ammonium armor, and those who violated the rules were exiled to Xihai County.
The Xiongnu Chanyu asked for the original seal, but Wang Mang refused to give it, so he invaded the border counties and killed and robbed officials and civilians.
In November, Sun Jian, the general who founded the country, reported: Dan Qin, the general of the Western Regions, reported that in the ninth month of Xinsi, Wuji Colonel Shi Chen Liang and Zhong led a group to kill Wuji Colonel Diao Hu, coerced officials and soldiers, and claimed that the general of the deposed Han Dynasty fled to the Huns.
Also on Guiyou day of this month, a man from nowhere stopped in front of my Sun Jian's car and called himself Liu Ziyu of the Han Dynasty, the son of the concubine of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty.
The Liu family should be revived and the palace should be vacated as soon as possible!
The man who was imprisoned turned out to be a native of Chang'an whose surname was Wu Mingzhong.
They are all against God, contrary to destiny, and treasonous.
Please sentence Wu Zhong, Chen Liang and others to be punished as relatives.
The memorial was approved.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty recently warned clearly that the officials and soldiers guarding the ancestral temples of the Han Dynasty should be dismissed, and he was willing to share in the sacrifices as guests in the ancestral temples of the new dynasty. He really wanted to obey God's will and preserve his descendants.
Their ancestral temple should not remain in Chang'an City, and all the princes of the Liu family should be abolished along with the Han Dynasty.
You were so kind that it took a long time to decide.
Previously, Liu Chong, the former Anzhonghou, Liu Kuai, the Xuxiang Hou, Liu Zeng, the Lingxiang Hou, and Liu Gui, the Fuenhou, successively gathered troops and plotted rebellion.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今狂狡之虏或妄自称亡汉将军，或称成帝子子舆，至犯夷灭，连未止者，此圣恩不蚤绝其萌牙故也。
芳愚以为汉高皇帝为新室宾，享食明堂。
成帝，异姓之兄弟；平帝，婿也；皆不宜复入其庙。
元帝与皇太后为体，圣恩所隆，礼亦宜之。
臣请汉氏诸庙在京师者皆罢。诸刘为诸侯者，以户多少就五等之差；其为吏者皆罢，待除于家。
上当天心，称高皇帝神灵，塞狂狡之萌。
莽曰： 可。
嘉新公国师以符命为予四辅，明务侯刘龚、率礼侯刘嘉等凡三十二人皆知天命，或献天符，或贡昌言，或捕告反虏，厥功茂焉。
诸刘与三十二人同宗共祖者勿罢，赐姓曰王。
唯国师以女配莽子，故不赐姓。
改定安太后号曰 黄皇室主 ，绝之于汉也。
冬十二月，雷。
更名匈奴单于曰 降奴服于。
莽曰： 降奴服于知威侮五行，背畔四条，侵犯西域，延及边垂，为元元害，罪当夷灭。
命遣立国将军孙建等凡十二将，十道并出，共行皇天之威，罚于知之身。
惟知先祖故呼韩邪单于稽侯犭册累世忠孝，保塞守徼，不忍以一知之罪，灭稽侯犭册之世。
今分匈奴国土人民以为十五，立稽侯犭册子孙十五人为单于。
遣中郎将蔺苞、戴级驰塞下，召拜当为单于者。
诸匈奴人当坐虏知之法者，皆赦除之 。
遣五威将军苗、虎贲将军王况出五原，厌难将军陈钦、震狄将军王巡出云中，振武将军王嘉、平狄将军王萌出代郡，相威将军李棽、镇远将军李翁出西河，诛貉将军阳俊、讨秽将军严尤出渔阳，奋武将军王骏、定胡将军王晏出张掖，及偏裨以下百八十人。
募天下囚徒、丁男、甲卒三十万人，转众郡委输五大夫衣裘、兵器、粮食，长吏送自负海江淮至北边，使者驰传督趣，以军兴法从事，天下骚动。
先至者屯边郡，须皆具乃同时出。
translation: 
Now there are some arrogant and cunning people, some of whom arrogantly claim to be the generals of the destroyed Han Dynasty, and some of whom pretend to be Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty. They do not stop until they commit the crime of killing people and reducing the family. It is because of your kindness that you did not stop them in their bud early.
I foolishly thought that Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty could be a state guest of the new dynasty and enjoy sacrifices in the Mingtang.
Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty is your cousin, and Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty is your son-in-law. You should not enter their temples again.
The Emperor Yuan of Han and the Empress Dowager became husband and wife, which is something you should respect due to your kindness, and it is appropriate to treat them that way according to the etiquette system.
I request you to abolish all ancestral temples of the Han Dynasty in the capital. All the royal family members surnamed Liu who are princes will be ranked according to the number of households. Those who are officials should be dismissed and stay at home waiting for the grant of new official positions.
Doing this is in line with God's will, in line with the wishes of Emperor Han Gao's gods, and to prevent the budding of arrogant and cunning thoughts.
Wang Mang said: Okay.
The Duke of Jiaxin served as my fourth assistant according to the destiny of the talisman. Thirty-two people, including Mingdehou Liu Gong and Lilihou Liu Jia, all understood the destiny. Some donated the talisman, some made good suggestions, and some arrested and reported the rebels. Their contribution was huge.
Those of the royal family with the surname Liu who share the same clan and ancestors as these thirty-two people will not be dismissed and will be rewarded with the surname Wang.
Only the imperial master assigned his daughter to Wang Mang's son, so he was not given a surname.
Changing the title of the Queen Mother of Ding'an to Huang Royal Princess showed that she had severed ties with the Han Dynasty.
In winter, in December, there is thunder.
The name of the Xiongnu Chanyu was changed to Jiangnu Submission.
Wang Mang said: Surrendering slaves to Nang Zhiyasi insulted the dignity of the country, betrayed the four-article agreement, invaded the Western Regions, spread to the borders of our country, and caused harm to the people. The crime committed should be killed and exterminated.
Twelve generals, including Sun Jian, the general who founded the country, were dispatched to divide their troops into ten groups to jointly demonstrate the power of the emperor and punish Nangzhi Yasi himself.
Thinking of Nangzhiyasi's ancestor Yuan Huhanxie Shanyu Jihouhu who had been loyal and filial for generations and guarding dangerous places on the border, I couldn't bear to wipe out the descendants of Jihou Shi just because of one Nangzhiyasi's crime.
Now it was decided to divide the territory and people of the Xiongnu into fifteen kingdoms, and establish the fifteen descendants of Jihou Shan as Chanyus.
Send Zhonglang, Lin Bao and Dai Ji to the border quickly to summon and grant titles to those who should be Chanyus.
All the Huns who should have been convicted of breaking the law with the rebel Nang Zhiyasi were pardoned.
General Miao Xin of Wuwei and General Wang Kuang of Huben were sent to attack from Wuyuan County. General Chen Qin of Yannan and General Wang Xun of Zhendi were sent to attack from Yunzhong County. General Wang Jia of Zhenwu and General Wang Meng of Pingdi were sent to attack from Daijun. General Li Qin and Zhenwei were sent. Far General Li Weng attacked from Xihe County, General Zhu Raccoon Yang Jun and General Tuhui Yan You attacked from Yuyang County, General Fenwu Wang Jun and General Dinghu Wang Yan attacked from Zhangye County, as well as partial general Pi General and the following officers, a total of 180 people.
300,000 prisoners, young men, and armed soldiers were summoned across the country, and orders were sent to counties to transport military uniforms, fur coats, weapons, and food. County-level officials were transported from the Yangtze River and Huaihe River basins along the coast to the northern border counties. Envoys rode in transport vehicles to supervise and urge, and things were done in accordance with the temporary wartime laws. The whole country was in commotion.
The troops that arrived first were stationed in the border counties, and they had to wait until all the troops arrived before attacking at the same time.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
莽以钱币讫不行，复下书曰： 民以食为命，以货为资，是以八政以食为首。
宝货皆重则小用不给，皆轻则僦载烦费，轻重大小各有差品，则用便而民乐。
于是造宝货五品，语在《食货志》。
百姓不从，但行小大钱二品而已。
盗铸钱者不可禁，乃重其法，一家铸钱，五家坐之，没入为奴婢。
吏民出入，持布钱以副符传，不持者，厨传勿舍，关津苛留。
公卿皆持以入宫殿门，欲以重而行之。
是时，争为符命封侯，其不为者相戏曰： 独无天帝除书乎？
司命陈崇白莽曰： 此开奸臣作福之路而乱天命，宜绝其原。
莽亦厌之，遂使尚书大夫赵并验治，非五威将率所班，皆下狱。
初，甄丰、刘歆、王舜为莽腹心，倡导在位，褒扬功德； 安汉 、 宰衡 之号及封莽母、两子、兄子，皆丰等所共谋，而丰、舜、歆亦受其赐，并富贵矣，非复欲令莽居摄也。
居摄之萌，出于泉陵侯刘庆、前煇光谢嚣、长安令田终术。
莽羽翼已成，意欲称摄。
丰等承顺其意，莽辄复封舜、歆两子及丰孙。
丰等爵位已盛，心意既满，又实畏汉宗室、天下豪桀。
而疏远欲进者，并作符命，莽遂据以即真，舜、歆内惧而已。
丰素刚强，莽觉其不说，故徙大阿、右拂、大司空丰、托符命文，为更始将军，与卖饼儿王盛同列。
丰父子默默。
translation: 
Because the coins have been unable to circulate, Wang Mang further announced: People regard food as life, and materials and money as the needs of life, so the eight policy guidelines put food first.
Currencies are all precious, so small ones are inconvenient to use, and all are cheap, so transporting and loading them is troublesome and troublesome. There are different grades of light, heavy, large, and small currencies. If they are easy to use, the people will welcome them.
So five kinds of currency were made, and these words were recorded in "Shi Huo Zhi".
The people did not comply and only used small money and big money.
Those who made money privately could not be stopped, so the criminal law on Japanese people was aggravated. If one family made money, five neighboring families would follow suit, and these people would be confiscated and sent to the palace as slaves.
When officials and people go out and come back, they must carry cloth money as a supporting document for their pass. Those who do not carry it will not be allowed to stay in the building, and they will be questioned and detained at checkpoints and ferries.
Officials and ministers have to carry it before they can enter the palace. They want to use this method to increase its value and circulate it.
At this time, people were vying to make talismans in order to be granted a title. Those who had never done it joked to each other: Don't you alone have no appointment certificate from the Emperor of Heaven?
Chen Chong, the commander of Wuwei, reported to Wang Mang: This has opened the way for traitors to pursue wealth and wealth, and it has confused the destiny of heaven. This root cause should be cut off.
Wang Mang also hated this kind of thing, so he asked the official Shangshu to go and check and deal with it. If it was not a talisman issued by General Wuwei, the person who made it was put in prison.
At first, Zhen Feng, Liu Xin and Wang Shun were Wang Mang's confidants. First of all, it was proposed that Wang Mang should be given a high position and power, and his merits should be praised and commended; the titles of Anhan Gong and Prime Minister and the conferment of Wang Mang's mother, two sons and nephews were all planned by Zhen Feng and others. As a result, Zhen Feng, Wang Shun and Liu Xin also received his favor and gained fame and fortune, and no longer wanted Wang Mang to serve as regent.
The beginning of the regency came from Quanling Hou Liu Qing, Qianhui Guang Xie Xiao and Chang'an Lingtian Zhongshu.
Wang Mang's feathers were full, and he wanted to take charge of power on his behalf.
Zhen Feng and others obeyed his intention, and Wang Mang further rewarded Wang Shun and Liu Xin's two sons and Zhen Feng's grandson.
Zhen Feng and others have already achieved noble titles and satisfied their desires, but they are really afraid of the Han Dynasty royal family and the world's heroes.
Those on the periphery of the ruling group who wanted to climb up the ranks made fortune talismans one after another. Wang Mang relied on these forces to officially ascend to the throne. Wang Shun and Liu Xin were just afraid in their hearts.
Zhen Feng had always been strong-willed, but Wang Mang noticed that he was unhappy, so under the pretense of fortune-telling, he transferred Zhen Feng, who held the posts of Da A, You Fu, and Da Sikong, to General Gengshi, giving him the same status as the cake seller Wang Sheng.
Zhen Feng and his son remained silent.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
时子寻为侍中京兆大君茂德侯，即作符命，言新室当分陕，立二伯，以丰为右伯，太傅平晏为左伯，如周、召故事。
莽即从之，拜丰为右伯。
当述职西出，未行，寻复作符命，言故汉氏平帝后黄皇室主为寻之妻。
莽以诈立，心疑大臣怨谤，欲震威以惧下，因是发怒曰： 黄皇室主天下母，此何谓也！
收捕寻。
寻亡，丰自杀。
寻随方士入华山，岁余捕得，辞连国师公歆子侍中东通灵将、五司大夫隆威侯棻，棻弟右曹长水校尉伐虏侯泳，大司空邑弟左关将军掌威侯奇，及歆门人侍中骑都尉丁隆等，牵引公卿党亲列侯以下，死者数百人。
寻手理有 天子 字，莽解其臂入视之，曰： 此一大子也，或曰一六子也。
六者，戮也。明寻父子当戮死也。
乃流棻于幽州，放寻于三危，殛隆于羽山，皆驿车载其尸传致云。
莽为人侈口蹶顄，露眼赤精，大声而嘶。
长七尺五寸，好厚履高冠，以氂装衣，反膺高视，瞰临左右。
是时，有用方技待诏黄门者，或问以莽形貌，待诏曰： 莽所谓鸱目虎吻豺狼之声者也，故能食人，亦当为人所食。
问者告之，莽诛灭待诏，而封告者。
后常翳云母屏面，非亲近莫得见也。
是岁，以初睦侯姚恂为宁始将军。
三年，莽曰： 百官改更，职事分移，律令仪法，未及悉定，且因汉律令仪法以从事。
令公卿、大夫、诸侯、二千石举吏民有德行通政事能言语明文学者各一人，诣王路四门。
遣尚书大夫赵并使劳北边，还言五原北假膏壤殖谷，异时常置田官。
乃以并为田禾将军，以戍卒屯田北假，以助军粮。
是时，诸将在边，须大众集，吏士放纵，而内郡愁于征发，民弃城郭流亡为盗贼，并州、平州尤甚。
莽令七公六卿号皆兼称将军，遣著武将军逮并等填名都，中郎将、绣衣执法各五十五人，分填缘边大郡，督大奸猾擅弄兵者，皆便为奸于外，挠乱州郡，货赂为市，侵渔百姓。
莽下书曰： 虏知罪当夷灭，故遣猛将分十二部，将同时出，一举而决绝之矣。
内置司命军正，外设军监十有二人，诚欲以司不奉命，令军人咸正也。
今则不然，各为权势，恐猲良民，妄封人颈，得钱者去。
translation: 
At this time, Zhen Feng's son Zhen Xun was appointed as the Great Yin of Jingzhao, and was granted the title of Marquis of Maode. He made a fortune telling that the new dynasty should separate the areas near the capital with Shaanxi County as the boundary, establish two local governors, appoint Zhen Feng as the right uncle, and Taifu Pingyan as the left uncle, following the examples of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong.
Wang Mang followed suit and appointed Zhen Feng as his right uncle.
He was supposed to be on his way to the west, but before he left, Zhen Xun made another talisman, saying that Princess Huang, the former empress of Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty, was Zhen Xun's wife.
Wang Mang ascended to the throne by deceit. He suspected that the ministers were resentful and slanderous, and wanted to show his majesty to intimidate his subordinates. Therefore, he got angry and said: The head of the Huang royal family is the mother of the country. What are you saying about Zhen Xun's wife?
He ordered Zhen Xun to be arrested.
Zhen Xun ran away and Zhen Feng committed suicide.
Zhen Xun followed the charlatan and hid in Huashan, and it took more than a year to catch him. The confession involved the son of the Imperial Master Liu Xin, the psychic general in the Middle East, the fifth minister Longweihou Liu Mo, and Liu Cai's younger brother Youcao Changshui. Liu Yong, the school captain who defeated the Luhou Hou, Zuoguan General, the younger brother of the Grand Sikong Wangyi, held the Weihou Wang Qi, and Liu Xin's student Shi Zhongqi Duwei Ding Long and others implicated the ministers, relatives, and princes below, and hundreds of people died.
The texture on Zhen Xun's hand had the words "Emperor" on it. Wang Mang cut off his arm, went to the palace to wrap it in dough, observed it, and said: "This is a big son", or "one or six sons".
Six, it means killing, which shows that Zhen Xun and his son should be killed.
So Liu Cai was exiled to Youzhou, Zhen Xun was expelled to Sanwei, and Ding Long was killed in Yushan. Their bodies were all delivered in the inn's carriage.
Wang Mang's appearance is characterized by a large mouth, short chin, protruding eyeballs, blood-red crystals, and a rough and hoarse voice.
He is seven feet five inches tall. He likes to wear thick-soled shoes, a high hat, and a stiff woolen coat. He stands tall and looks far down to the left and right.
At this time, there was a man waiting for appointment at Huangmen with medical skills. Someone asked him about Wang Mang's appearance. The man waiting for appointment said: "Wang Mang is what people call eyes like an owl, a mouth like a tiger, and a voice like a jackal. Therefore, he can eat people and will be eaten by others in the future."
The person who asked the question reported the matter. Wang Mang executed the person who was waiting for appointment and rewarded the person who reported the matter.
From now on, he often used a mica screen to cover himself, so that those who were not close could not see him.
In this year, Yao Xun, Marquis of Chumu, was appointed as General Ningshi.
In the third year, Wang Mang said: The names of hundreds of officials have been changed, their positions have been changed, and the legal system and etiquette rules have not been fully formulated. The legal system and etiquette rules of the Han Dynasty have been followed.
He ordered the ministers, princes, and two thousand stone-level officials to recommend one expert each from officials or civilians who had moral cultivation, was familiar with policies and laws, was good at rhetoric, and was proficient in literature and classics, to come to the four gates of the royal road.
He sent the official Shangshu to visit and express his condolences to the troops stationed in the northern border counties. He came back and said that the soil in the northern part of Wuyuan County was fertile and could grow grains. In the past, officials were often appointed to manage farmland.
He appointed Zhao Bing as General Tianhe and mobilized garrison soldiers to cultivate fields in the Beijia area to finance military supplies.
At this time, the generals were stationed at the border, waiting for the armies to gather, and the officers and soldiers were acting recklessly. Meanwhile, the counties in the interior were suffering from the government's requisition of personnel and materials, so that the people abandoned their homes and went into exile to become thieves, especially in Bingzhou and Hepingzhou.
Wang Mang ordered that the official titles of the Seven Dukes and Six Ministers should also be called generals. He sent military generals such as Lu Bing and others to guard famous cities. He also dispatched fifty-five generals and law enforcement officers in Xiuyi to guard the major counties near the border. They monitored the traitors who went to war and raised troops to cause chaos. However, they were all doing bad things in other places, disrupting the states and counties, engaging in bribery and plundering the people's property.
Wang Mang reported below: "The crimes committed by Nangzhi Yasi of the Xiongnu should be killed and exterminated, so he sent fierce generals to divide them into twelve armies, and they will attack at the same time to wipe them out in one fell swoop."
The imperial court set up commanders and commanders, and each army set up twelve military supervisors. It was originally intended to rely on them to monitor the phenomenon of disobedience of orders, so that all soldiers could behave properly.
This is not the case now. They often play with power, intimidate kind-hearted people, act boldly, tie their necks with chains, force them to be slaves, and only remove them after extorting money.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
毒蠚并作，农民离散。
司监若此，可谓称不？
自今以来，敢犯此者，辄捕系，以名闻。
然犹放纵自若。
而蔺苞、戴级到塞下，招诱单于弟咸、咸子登入塞，胁拜咸为孝单于，赐黄金千斤，锦绣甚多，遣去；将登至长安，拜为顺单于，留邸。
太师王舜自莽篡位后病悸，浸剧，死。
莽曰： 昔齐太公以淑德累世，为周氏太师，盖予之所监也。
其以舜子延袭父爵，为安新公，延弟褒新侯匡为太师将军，永为新室辅。
为太子置师友各四人，秩以大夫。
以故大司徒马宫为师疑，故少府宗伯凤为傅丞，博士袁圣为阿辅，京兆尹王嘉为保拂，是为四师；故尚书令唐林为胥附，博士李充为奔走，谏大夫赵襄为先后，中郎将廉丹为御侮，是为四友。
又置师友祭酒及侍中、谏议、《六经》祭酒各一人，凡九祭酒，秩上卿。
琅邪左咸为讲《春秋》、颍川满昌为讲《诗》、长安国由为讲《易》、平阳唐昌为讲《书》、沛郡陈咸为讲《礼》、崔发为讲《乐》祭酒。
遣谒者持安车印绶，即拜楚国龚胜为太子师友祭酒，胜不应征，不食而死。
宁始将军姚恂免，侍中、崇禄侯孔永为宁始将军。
是岁，池阳县有小人景，长尺余，或乘车马，或步行，操持万物，小大各相称，三日止。
濒河郡蝗生。
河决魏郡，泛清河以东数郡。
先是，莽恐河决为元城冢墓害。
及决东去，元城不忧水，故遂不堤塞。
四年二月，赦天下。
夏，赤气出东南，竟天。
厌难将军陈钦言捕虏生口，虏犯边者皆孝单于咸子角所为。
莽怒，斩其子登于长安，以视诸蛮夷。
大司马甄邯死，宁始将军孔永为大司马，侍中大赘侯辅为宁始将军。
莽每当出，辄先搜索城中，名曰 横搜 。
是月，横搜五日。
莽至明堂，授诸侯茅土。
translation: 
Disasters occurred all at once, causing farmers to become homeless.
If Si Ming Junzheng and Military Supervisor perform their duties like this, can they be said to be competent?
From now on, anyone who dares to commit such crimes again will be arrested and imprisoned, and their names will be reported.
However, he still acted recklessly.
Lin Bao and Dai Ju arrived at the border, and lured Chanyu's younger brother Xian and Xian's son Deng to invade the border. They forced Xian to be named Xiao Chanyu, rewarded a thousand catties of gold, and many high-quality silks, and sent them back. They took Deng to Chang'an, named him Shun Chanyu, and stayed in a foreign hotel.
Grand Master Wang Shun suffered from heart palpitations after Wang Mang stole the throne, which gradually worsened and died.
Wang Mang said: In the past, the Grand Duke of Qi's kindness and virtues were passed down to many generations. As the Grand Master of the Zhou Dynasty, I originally followed the method.
Wang Yan, Wang Shun's son, should be allowed to inherit his father's title and be an Xingong. Wang Yan's younger brother, Baoxinhou Wang Kuang, should be appointed as Taishi General and assist the new dynasty from generation to generation.
There are four teachers and four friends each for the prince, and the salary is similar to that of a doctor.
The former Grand Situ Ma Gong was appointed as the master, the former Shaofu Zong Bofeng was the Fu Cheng, the doctor Yuan Sheng was the assistant, and the Jingzhao Yin Wangjia was the protector. These were the four divisions. The former Shangshu ordered Tang Lin to be the assistant, the doctor Li Chong was the assistant, the doctor Li Chong was the assistant, the doctor Xiang was appointed successively, and the Zhonglang general Lian Dan was the guard against insults. These were the four friends.
There are also one person each for the teacher and friend offering wine, the servant offering wine, the admonition offering wine, and the "Six Classics" offering wine, for a total of nine wine offerings, and the salary is the same as that of the minister.
Zuo Xianzuo from Langye County lectured on the Spring and Autumn Annals, Manchang from Yingchuan County lectured on the Book of Songs, Changan Youzuo on the Book of Changes, Tang Changzuo on Pingyang County lectured on the Book of Books, Chen Xianzuo on the Peijun County offered wine on the Book of Rites, and Cui Fafa lectured on the Book of Music.
A messenger was sent with a carriage and a seal, and Gong Sheng, a native of Chu, was appointed on the spot as the prince's mentor and friend. Gong Sheng refused to accept the appointment and died on hunger strike.
Yao Xun, the general of Ningshi, was dismissed from his post, and Kong Yong, Marquis of Chonglu, became the general of Ningshi.
This year, shadows of small figures appeared in Chiyang County, more than a foot tall. Some were riding carriages and horses, some were on foot, holding various utensils. The size of the utensils matched the figures. It took three days to stop.
Locusts appeared in counties along the Yellow River.
The Yellow River broke through Wei County and flooded Qinghe County and bound several counties.
Originally, Wang Mang was afraid that the Yellow River burst would cause disaster to his ancestor's tomb in Yuancheng County.
When the breached river flows eastward, Yuancheng County does not need to worry about flooding, so no embankments will be built to block the water.
In February of the fourth year, a national amnesty was announced.
In summer, fiery red clouds rise from the southeast and reach the sky.
General Chen Qin said that the capture of prisoners and the enemy's invasion of the border were all done by Xiao Shanyu Xian's son Jiao.
Wang Mang got angry and killed Xian's son Deng in Chang'an to show off to the foreigners in Chang'an.
The Grand Sima Zhen Han died, Ningshi General Kong Yong became the Grand Sima, and the servant Houfu became the Ningshi General.
Whenever Wang Mang goes out, he always searches the city first, which is called "general search".
This month, widespread searches took place over five days.
Wang Mang came to Mingtang and awarded the princes the thatched soil that symbolized the feudal state.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
下书曰： 予以不德，袭于圣祖，为万国主。
思安黎元，在于建侯，分州正惑，以美风俗。
追监前代，爰纲爰纪。
惟在《尧典》，十有二州，卫有五服。
《诗》国十五，布遍九州。
《殷颂》有 奄有九有 之言。
《禹贡》之九州无并、幽，《周礼·司马》则无徐、梁。
帝王相改，各有云为。
或昭其事，或大其本，厥义著明，其务一矣。
昔周二后受命，故有东都、西都之居。
予之受命，盖亦如之。
其以洛阳为新室东都，常安为新室西都。
邦畿连体，各有采任。
州从《禹贡》为九，爵从周氏有五。
诸侯之员千有八百，附城之数亦如之，以俟有功。
诸公一同，有众万户，土方百里。
侯伯一国，众户五千，土方七十里。
子男一则，众户二千有五百，土方五十里。
附城大者食邑九成，众户九百，土方三十里。
自九以下，降杀以两，至于一城。
五差备具，合当一则。
今已受茅土者，公十四人、侯九十三人、伯二十一人、子百七十一人、男四百九十七人，凡七百九十六人。
附城千五百一十一人。
九族之女为任者，八十三人。
及汉氏女孙中山承礼君、遵德君、修义君更以为任。
萎有一公，九卿，十二大夫，二十四元士。
定诸国邑采之处，使侍中讲礼大夫孔秉等与州部众郡晓知地理图籍者，共校治于寿成朱鸟堂。
予数与群公祭酒上卿亲听视，咸已通矣。
夫褒德赏功，所以显仁贤也；九族和睦，所以褒亲亲也。
予永惟匪解，思稽前人，将章黜陟，以明好恶，安元元焉。
以图簿未定，未授国邑，且令受奉都内，月钱数千。
诸侯皆困乏，至有庸作者。
translation: 
The following report said: I have no virtue, inherited the cause of Huangdi and Yushun, and became the monarch of various vassal states.
The idea is to stabilize the people by establishing princes, dividing states and countries, demarcating borders, and improving customs.
This is a principle and a method based on ancient methods.
According to the records of "Yao Dian", there are twelve states, and the areas outside the direct territory of the emperor are divided into five levels.
The Book of Songs records fifteen countries, distributed in nine states.
"Yin Song" includes words from Jiuzhou.
"Book of Books." There are no Bingzhou and Youzhou among the nine states recorded in "Yu Gong", "Zhou Li" records. However, the records of "Sima" do not include Xuzhou and Liangzhou.
The emperors changed it successively, each with its own meaning and role.
Some are to show his career, and some are to expand his foundation. These meanings are obvious, and they are all dedicated to pursuing the same goal.
In the past, King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou successively received the mandate of heaven, so there was the construction of Shudu and Xidu.
I received my destiny and was originally like them.
Luoyang should be regarded as the capital of the new dynasty, and Chang'an should be regarded as the western capital of the new dynasty.
The two capitals and their outlying areas were connected as a whole, including some fiefdoms of ministers and nobility.
The sub-states were divided into nine states according to "Yu Gong", and the titles were divided into five levels according to the system of the Zhou Dynasty.
The title of the princes is set at 1,800, and the number of attached cities is also the same as the princes, waiting for meritorious people to receive these titles.
The fiefdoms of each duke are called together, with ten thousand households and a land of one hundred miles each.
The fiefdom of a marquis and count is called a country, with five thousand households and ten miles of land in each direction.
The fiefdom of the Baron Viscount is called Yi Zhi, with 2,500 residents and 50 miles of land in each direction.
The largest fiefdom in the attached city is 90%, with 900 households, and the land is 30 miles in length and width.
From below 90%, it will be reduced by 20% for each lower level, and finally reduced to 10%.
The total area of ​​the fiefdoms of the five annexes of different levels is equivalent to the fiefdom of a viscount baron.
There are now 14 dukes, 93 marquises, 21 earls, 171 viscounts, and 497 barons, a total of 796 people who have accepted Maotou.
There are 1,511 people in the attached city.
Eighty-three daughters of the Nine Clans were conferred titles.
And the granddaughters of the Han Dynasty, Zhongshan Guochenglijun, Zundejun, and Xiuyijun were renamed Renjue.
There are also eleven Dukes, nine ministers, twelve officials, and twenty-four Yuanshi.
划定所有封国、食邑、采地的地址，让侍中讲礼大夫孔秉等人和各州部、各郡通晓地理图表和户籍册的官吏，在寿成室朱乌堂共同核对整理。
I have personally inspected and listened to reports with the princes, ministers, and ministers many times, and I have understood everything.
Commending virtues and rewarding meritorious deeds are used to show the benevolence of the emperor and the virtuousness of his ministers; the harmony of the nine ethnic groups is used to promote the love between relatives.
I never want to do nothing, I just want to follow the example of the ancients and publicly reward and punish people to show their love and hate and stabilize the good people.
Since the map and household registration have not yet been planned, and the land has not been granted, they are temporarily allowed to receive their salaries at the official office in the capital, and they are given thousands of dollars every month.
The princes all lived in difficulty, and some were even employed to work for others.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
中郎区博谏莽曰： 井田虽圣王法，其废久矣。
周道既衰，而民不从。
秦知顺民之心，可以获大利也，故灭庐井而置阡陌，遂王诸夏，讫今海内未厌其敝。
今欲违民心，追复千载绝迹，虽尧、舜夏起，而无百年之渐，弗能行也。
天下初定，万民新附，诚未可施行。
莽知民怨，乃下书曰： 诸名食王田，皆得卖之，勿拘以法。
犯私买卖庶人者，且一切勿治。
初，五威将帅出，改句町王以为侯，王邯怨怒不附。
莽讽牂柯大尹周歆诈杀邯。
邯弟承起兵攻杀歆。
先是，莽发高句骊兵，当伐胡，不欲行，郡强迫之，皆亡出塞，因犯法为冠。
辽西大尹田谭追击之，为所杀。
州郡归咎于高句骊侯驺。
严尤奏言： 貉人犯法，不从驺起，正有它心，宜令州郡且尉安之。
今猥被以大罪，恐其遂畔，夫馀之属必有和者。
匈奴未克，夫馀、秽貉复起，此大忧也。
莽不尉安，秽貉遂反，诏尤击之。
尤诱高句骊侯驺至而斩焉，传首长安。
莽大说，下书曰： 乃者，命遣猛将，共行天罚，诛灭虏知，分为十二部，或断其右臂，或斩其左腋，或溃其胸腹，或其两胁。
今年刑在东方，诛貉之部先纵焉。
捕斩虏驺，平定东域，虏知殄灭，在于漏刻。
此乃天地群神、社稷、宗庙佑助之福，公卿、大夫、士民同心将率虓虎之力也。
予甚嘉之。
其更名高句骊为下句骊，布告天下，令咸知焉。
于是貉人愈犯边，东北与西南夷皆乱云。
translation: 
Zhonglang Qubo advised Wang Mang: Although the well field system is a system of wise emperors, it has been abandoned for a long time.
The system of the Zhou dynasty had declined, and therefore the people were disobedient.
The Qin Dynasty knew how to obtain huge benefits by obeying the people's wishes, so it abolished the well-field system and reclaimed idle land, thus unifying the Central Plains. To this day, the people across the country have not disliked the disadvantages of this system.
Now, if we want to violate the wishes of the people and go back to restore the outstanding achievements of thousands of years ago, even if Tang Yao and Yu Shun appear again, it will not be possible without a brewing process of hundreds of years.
Now that the state power has just been established and the people of the country have just surrendered, it is indeed impossible to implement it.
Wang Mang knew that the people were resentful, so he issued a notice saying: All Wang Tian owned by private individuals or rewarded by the court is allowed to be sold without any restrictions by law.
Those who violate the prohibition on privately buying and selling civilians will not be prosecuted for the time being.
At the beginning, General Wuwei went on a patrol and changed the king of Gouding to a marquis. King Han of Gouding was resentful and disobedient.
Wang Mang signaled Zhou Xin, the great Yin of Fat Ke County, to kill Han by deception.
Han's younger brother Cheng raised an army to attack and killed Zhou Xin.
Originally, Wang Mang mobilized Gaogouli's troops to attack the Xiongnu. They did not want to go, so the commandery forced them to flee the border, whereupon they violated the law, robbed and killed.
Dayin Tiantan of Liaoxi County pursued them and was killed by them.
The governor of the prefecture and county placed the blame on Hou Ju of Gaoguli.
Yan You reported: "The raccoon dogs did not break the law because of Liu. If they have other motives, they should order the state and county authorities and appease them."
Now that they are being charged with more serious crimes, I am afraid they will rebel, and the tribes in Fuyu will definitely join in.
The Xiongnu are not defeated, Fuyu and the dirty raccoon dogs arise again, which is a great worry.
Wang Mang refused to appease him, so the raccoon dog rebelled and ordered Yan You to attack it.
Yan You seduced Gaoguli Hou Ju, killed him when he arrived, and passed his head to Chang'an.
Wang Mang was very happy and reported below: A few days ago, fierce generals were sent to annihilate Nangzhi Yasi, the Xiongnu. Some of them cut off his right arm, some cut off his left shoulder, some damaged his chest and abdomen, and some pulled out his ribs.
Punishment killings will appear in the east this year, and the troops to conquer the raccoon dogs will take the lead.
After capturing and killing the Liu Nu generation and pacifying the Dingdongfang region, the Xiongnu Nangzhiyasi were annihilated before their eyes.
This is the blessing of the heaven and earth, the gods, the gods of earth and grain, and the blessing and help of ancestors, the power of the public officials, officials, scholars, and the people to unite with one heart and one mind, and the generals to fight bravely.
I appreciate these.
Gaogouli should be renamed Xiagouli and announced to the world so that everyone knows.
So the raccoon dogs invaded the border even more, and the barbarians in the northeast and southwest were in chaos.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
莽志方盛，以为四夷不足吞灭，专念稽古之事，复下书曰： 伏念予之皇始祖考虞帝，受终文祖，在璇玑玉衡以齐七政，遂类于上帝，禋于六宗，望秩于山川，遍于群神，巡狩五岳，群后四朝，敷奏以言，明试以功。
予之受命即真，到于建国五年，已五载矣。
阳九之厄既度，百霹之会已过。
岁在寿星，填在明堂，仓龙癸酉，德在中宫。
观晋掌岁，龟策告从，其以此年二月建寅之节东巡狩，具礼仪调度。
群公奏请募吏民人马布帛绵，又请内郡国十二买马，发帛四十五万匹，输常安，前后毋相须。
至者过半，莽下书曰： 文母太后体不安，其且止待后。
是岁，改十一公号，以 新 为 心 ，后又改 心 为 信 。
五年二月，文母皇太后崩，葬渭陵，与元帝合而沟绝之。
立庙于长安，新室世世献祭。
元帝配食，坐于床下。
葬为太倔服丧三年。
大司马孔永乞骸骨，赐安车驷马，以特进就朝位。
同风侯逯并为大司马。
是时，长安民闻莽欲都雒阳，不肯缮治室宅，或颇彻之。
莽曰： 玄龙石文曰 定帝德，国雒阳 。
符命著明，敢不钦奉！
以始建国八年，岁缠星纪，在雒阳之都。
其谨缮修常安之都，勿令坏败。
敢有犯者，辄以名闻，请其罪。
是岁，乌孙大小昆弥遣使贡献。
大昆弥者，中国外孙也。
其胡妇子为小昆弥，而乌孙归附之。
莽见匈奴诸边并侵，意欲得乌孙心，乃遣使者引小昆弥使置大昆弥使上。
保成师友祭酒满昌劾奏使者曰： 夷狄以中国有礼谊，故诎而服从。
大昆弥，君也。今序臣使于君使之上，非所以有夷狄也。
奉使大不敬！
莽怒，免昌官。
西域诸国以莽积失恩信，焉耆先畔，杀都护但钦。
十一月，彗星出，二十余日，不见。
translation: 
Wang Mang was feeling proud, thinking that the foreign tribes from all over the world could be annexed and eliminated without much effort. He just wanted to find old examples from ancient books, and he continued to report: I prostrated myself in memory of my great emperor Kao Yushun, accepted the abdication of power in the Wenzu Temple, observed astronomy, studied the sun, the moon and the five planets clearly, then offered sacrifices to the sky, raised smoke to worship the various natural forces in the world, looked at the mountains and rivers in the distance, worshiped various gods in general, inspected the five mountains, met with the princes from all over the area, asked them to report orally or in writing, and conducted detailed and accurate assessments based on the facts.
It has been five years since I accepted the destiny and officially ascended the throne to the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Now that the unfortunate fate is out of the way, the cycle of disaster has passed.
Jupiter is in the longevity palace, Saturn is in the Mingtang constellation, Tai Sui is in Guiyou, and Wang Qi is in the North Pole.
Guan Gua and Jin Gua are in the year, and divination tells people how they should act. In the early spring of Jianyin in February of this year, they should visit the Shubu area and lay out the etiquette procedures.
The ministers reported that they proposed to collect personnel, horses, linen, silk and silk from the government and the people. They also proposed that twelve inland counties buy horses and levy 450,000 silk and silk to transport to Chang'an without waiting for each other.
More than half of the people arrived, and Wang Mang issued a notice: "Empress Dowager Wen is uneasy and should stop temporarily and wait to see later."
This year, the title of the Eleventh Duke was changed, and the character "xin" was changed to the character "xin", and later the character "xin" was changed to the character "xin".
In February of the fifth year, Empress Dowager Wenmu passed away and was buried in Weiling. She was buried together with Emperor Yuan, with a ditch cut in the middle to separate them.
An ancestral temple was established in Chang'an and it was stipulated that the new dynasty should offer sacrifices from generation to generation.
Emperor Yuan deserves to enjoy it, and his divine master is placed under the favor frame of her divine master.
Wang Mang stayed in mourning for the Queen Mother for three years.
Grand Sima Kong Yong requested to retire and was rewarded with a chariot and four tethered horses, and he was allowed to attend the court meeting according to the honorary title of Tejin.
He was with Fenghou Lu and served as Grand Sima.
At this time, the people of Chang'an heard that Wang Mang wanted to build Luoyang as the capital and were unwilling to repair their houses. Some people partially demolished some houses.
Wang Mang said: The text of Xuanlong Stone said that the fate of the emperor was stabilized, and the capital of the country was built in Luoyang.
The destiny is clear, if you don’t dare to disrespect it, follow it!
By the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Jupiter was in the Xingji Palace and the capital of Luoyang was established.
The capital city of Chang'an should be well repaired and not let into ruin.
If anyone dares to violate the rules, his name will be reported and his crime will be investigated.
This year, Da Kunmi and Xiao Kunmi of Wusun State sent envoys to pay tribute.
Dakunmi is the grandson of Zhongyuan.
The son of the wife of Baotan, the former Kunmi, became Kunmi, but the people of User joined him.
Wang Mang saw the Xiongnu and many border foreigners invading at the same time, and wanted to win the favor of the Wusun people, so he sent an envoy to lead Xiao Kunmi's envoy to sit on the throne of Da Kunmi's envoy.
Master Baocheng offered wine to Maidan and wrote a memorial to impeach the envoy: "Foreign people in the Central Plains pay attention to etiquette and justice, so they obey."
Da Kunmi is the king of the country, and now he arranges for the envoys of his ministers to sit on the throne of the king's envoys. This is not a way to rule foreigners.
The envoy who was sent to entertain was disrespectful!
Wang Ling got angry and dismissed Man Chang from his official position.
The countries in the Western Regions had lost favor and credibility due to Wang Mang's long-term loss of favor. Yanqi State was the first to betray him and killed his successor Dan Zhen.
In November, the comet appeared, but after more than twenty days, it disappeared.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
是岁，以犯挟铜炭者多，除其法。
明年改元曰 天凤 。
天凤元年正月，赦天下。
莽曰： 予以二月建寅之节行巡狩之礼，太官赍糒干肉，内者行张坐卧，所过毋得有所给。
予之东巡，必躬载耒，每县则耕，以劝东作。
予之南巡，必躬载耨，每县则耨，以劝南伪。
予之西巡，必躬载铚，每县则获，以劝西成。
予之北巡，必躬载拂，每县则粟，以劝盖藏。
毕北巡狩之礼，即于土中居雒阳之都焉。
敢有趋讠雚犯法，辄以军法从事。
群公奏言： 皇帝至考，往年文母圣体不豫，躬亲供养，衣冠稀解。
因遭弃群臣悲哀，颜色未复，饮食损少。
今一岁四巡，道路万里，春秋尊，非糒干肉之所能堪。
且无巡狩，须阕大服，以安圣体，臣等尽力养牧兆民，奉称明诏。
莽曰： 群公、群牧、群司、诸侯、庶尹愿尽力相帅养牧兆民，欲以称予，繇此敬听，其勖之哉！
毋食言焉。
更以天凤七年，岁在大梁，仓龙庚辰，行巡狩之礼。
厥明年，岁在实沈，仓龙辛已，即土之中雒阳之都。
乃遣太傅平晏、大司空王邑之雒阳，营相宅兆，图起宗庙、社稷、郊兆云。
三月壬申晦，日有食之。
大赦天下。
策大司马逯并曰： 日食无光，干戈不戢，其上大司马印韨，就侯氏朝位。
太傅平晏勿领尚书事，省侍中、诸曹兼官者。
以？男苗为大司马。
莽即真，尤备大臣，抑夺下权，朝臣有言其过失者，辄拔擢。
孔仁、赵博、费兴等以敢击大臣，故见信任，择名官而居之。
translation: 
This year, because too many people violated the ban on privately storing copper charcoal, the law was repealed.
The next year, the name was changed to Tianfeng.
In the first month of the first year of Tianfeng's reign, a nationwide amnesty was announced.
Wang Mang said: I will conduct an inspection tour in the early spring of February. The officials will carry dry food and dried meat, and they will lay out beds, mats and tents along the way. There should be no supplies in the places they pass.
When I patrol the east, I will personally carry the plow and participate in the plowing in every county I visit, thereby promoting spring plowing.
When I patrol the south, I will personally carry a hoe and participate in weeding in every county I visit to encourage cultivating.
When I patrol the West, I will personally carry a sickle and participate in harvesting in every county I visit to encourage the autumn harvest.
When I patrol the north, I must personally carry the flail and participate in the fighting field in every county I visit to encourage storage.
After completing the inspection activities in the north, the capital of Luoyang was established in the center of the country.
Anyone who dares to break the law by running and making noise will be dealt with according to military law.
The ministers reported: The emperor is the most filial. The year before last, Mother Wen was ill, so you personally served her and rarely took off your clothes.
Because of the grief of Wen's mother's death, her appearance has not recovered and her diet has decreased.
Now I have to tour all over the country a year, covering thousands of miles. At such an advanced age, dry food and meat are not something I can adapt to.
Do not go on inspection tours for the time being and wait for the period of national mourning to expire so that you can maintain the Eucharist. We strive to educate and discipline the people of the country and implement your wise instructions.
Wang Mang said: The princes, the pastors of each state, the ministers in charge, the princes, and the great officials of each county are willing to do their best to supervise each other to educate and discipline the people of the country, and strive to meet my wishes. Therefore, I should encourage you to adopt your opinions!
Don't forget your promise.
It was changed to the seventh year of Tianfeng, when Jupiter was in Daliang Palace and Tai Sui was in Gengchen, inspection activities were carried out.
Next year, Jupiter will be in Shichen Palace and Tai Sui will be in Xinsi, heading to the capital city of Luoyang, the center of the country.
He then sent Taifu Pingyan and Grand Sikong Wangyi to Luoyang to select foundations and plan to build a royal ancestral temple, Tugu Shrine and an altar for worshiping heaven and earth.
On the last day of Renshen in March, there was a solar eclipse.
A national amnesty was declared.
I wrote a policy letter to Grand Sima Lu and said: The solar eclipse has occurred, the sun has been swallowed up, and the war has not stopped. You should hand over Grand Sima's seal and attend the court meeting as a marquis.
Taifu Pingyan should no longer be in charge of the affairs of the minister, and he should cancel the concurrent posts of ministers and ministers.
Li Miao Nanxin was appointed as Grand Sima.
After Wang Mang formally ascended the throne, he took special precautions against his ministers and restricted and weakened their powers. Those ministers who criticized the ministers' mistakes were always promoted.
Kong Ren, Zhao Bo, Fei Xing and others gained trust because they dared to criticize ministers, and good official positions were chosen for them.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
公卿入宫，吏有常数，太傅平晏从吏过例，掖门仆射苛差问不逊，戊曹士收系仆射。
莽大怒，使执法发车骑数百围太傅府，捕士，即时死。
大司空士夜过奉常亭，亭长苛之，告以官名，亭长醉曰： 宁有符传邪？
士以马棰击亭长，亭长斩士，亡，郡县逐之。
家上书，莽曰： 亭长奉公，勿逐。
大司空邑斥士以谢。
国将哀章颇不清，莽为选置和叔，敕曰： 非但保国将闺门，当保亲属在西州者。
诸公皆轻贱，而章尤甚。
四月，陨霜，杀草木，海濒尤甚。
六月，黄雾四塞。
七月，大风拔树，飞北阙直城门屋瓦。
雨雹，杀牛羊。
莽以《周官》、《王制》之文，置卒正、连率、大尹，职如太守；属令、属长，职如都尉。
置州牧、部监二十五人，见礼如三公。
监位上大夫，各主五郡。
公氏作牧，侯氏卒正，伯氏连率，子氏属令，男氏属长，皆世其官。
其无爵者为尹。
分长安城旁六乡，置帅各一人。
分三辅为六尉郡，河东、河内、弘农、河南、颍川、南阳为六队郡，置大夫，职如太守；属正，职如都尉。
更名河南大尹曰保忠信卿。
益河南属县满三十。
置六郊州长各一人，人主五县。
及它官名悉改。
大郡至分为五。
郡县以亭为名者三百六十，以应符命文也。
缘边又置竟尉，以男为之。
诸侯国闲田，为黜陟增减云。
莽下书曰： 常安西都曰六乡，众县曰六尉。
义阳东都曰六州，众县曰六队。
translation: 
When ministers entered the palace, there was a quota for accompanying officials. Once, Taifu Pingyan brought more officials than the limit. Pushe from Yemen questioned him, but his attitude was not good. Wucao's staff from Taifu's Mansion arrested Pushe.
Wang Mang became furious and ordered law enforcement to mobilize hundreds of chariots to surround the Taifu Mansion, arrest the officials, and execute them immediately.
Another time, Da Sikong's clerk passed by Fengchang Pavilion at night. The pavilion chief questioned him. He told the pavilion chief his official position. The pavilion chief got drunk and said, "Do you have any proof?"
The clerk hit the pavilion chief with a horse whip. The chief of the pavilion wanted to kill the clerk and ran away. The county and county officials wanted to pursue him.
His family wrote a letter to complain, and Wang Mang said: "The chief of the pavilion is doing official business, so there is no need to pursue him."
Grand Sikong Wangyi reprimanded the clerk and came to apologize.
General Aizhang's behavior was very immoral. Wang Mang chose to appoint He Shu for him and warned him: Not only should he help the general himself in the palace, but he should also help his relatives in Xizhou.
All the ministers were looked down upon, but Ai Zhang was particularly powerful.
In April, frost fell, killing vegetation, especially along the coast.
In June, the sky is filled with yellow sand.
In July, strong winds blew down trees and blew away the tiles on the gate house of Bei Que.
Hail fell, killing cattle and sheep.
In accordance with the scriptures of "Zhou Guan" and "King Zhi", Wang Mang set up Zuzheng, Lianli, and Dayin, whose positions were like prefects; he also set up subordinate orders and chiefs, whose positions were like captains.
Twenty-five young shepherds and ministers were appointed, and the emperor received them with the same etiquette as he received the three princes.
The position is senior official, and each person has jurisdiction over five counties.
The duke serves as the state shepherd, the marquis serves as the chief officer, the earl serves as the company commander, the viscount serves as the subordinate order, and the baron serves as the chief of subordinates. These official positions are all hereditary.
Those without titles are called Dayin.
The suburbs of Chang'an were divided into six townships, and each township was assigned a township commander.
The Sanfu area is divided into six counties, and Hedong County, Hanoi County, Hongnong County, Henan County, Yingchuan County, and Nanyang County are divided into six teams of counties. They all have officials with the same position as prefects; they set up subordinates with the same position as captains.
Henan County Dayin was renamed Baozhong Xinqing.
Add 30 counties under the jurisdiction of Henan Province.
There is one governor for each of the six suburbs, each with jurisdiction over five counties.
and other official names have all been changed.
The large county was even divided into five counties.
There are 360 ​​counties and counties named with the word "ting", which is used to match the talisman's words.
In the border areas, Jingwei was set up, and barons were used to fill this position.
The remaining fields among the vassal states were reserved for rewarding meritorious service or punishing guilty ones.
Wang Mang reported below: The suburbs of Xidu in Chang'an are divided into six townships, and the surrounding counties belong to six lieutenants.
The outer suburbs of Yiyang Dongdu are divided into six states, and the surrounding counties belong to six teams.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
粟米之内曰内郡，其外曰近郡。
有障徼者曰边郡。合百二十有五郡。
九州之内，县二千二百有三。
公作甸服，是为惟城；诸在侯服，是为惟宁；在采、任诸侯，是为惟翰；在宾服，是为惟屏；在揆文教，奋武卫，是为惟垣；在九州之外，是为惟藩：各以其方为称，总为万国焉。
其后，岁复变更，一郡至五易名，而还复其故。
吏民不能纪，每下诏书，辄系其故名，曰： 制诏陈留大尹、太尉：其以益岁以南付新平。
新平，故淮阳。
以雍丘以东付陈定。
陈定，故梁郡。
以封丘以东付治亭。
治亭，故东郡。
以陈留以西付祈隧。
祈隧，故荥阳。
陈留已无复有郡矣。
大尹、太尉，皆诣行在所。
其号令变易，皆此类也。
今天下小学，戊子代甲子为六旬首。
冠以戊子为元日，昏以戊寅之旬为忌日。
百姓多不从者。
匈奴单于知死，弟咸立为单于，求和亲。
莽遣使者厚赂之，诈还许其侍子登，因购求陈良、终带等。
单于即执良等付使者，槛车诣长安。
莽燔烧良等于城北，令吏民会观之。
缘边大饥，人相食。
谏大夫如普行边兵，还言 军士久屯塞苦，边郡无以相赡。
今单于新和，宜因是罢兵。
校尉韩威进曰： 以新室之威而吞胡虏，无异口中蚤虱。
臣愿得勇敢之士五千人，不赍斗粮，饥食虏肉，渴饮其血，可以横行。
莽壮其言，以威为将军。
然采普言，征还诸将在边者。
免陈钦等十八人，又罢四关填都尉诸屯兵。
translation: 
The places within four to five hundred miles from Shudu and Xidu are called Neijun, and the places outside are called Jinjun.
Places with border fortresses are called border counties, totaling 125 counties.
Kyushu covers 2,203 counties.
The duke serves as a national robe, which is the castle; all the princes who serve as lords, this is the support; the princes who accept and serve, this is the pillar; the princes who serve as the guest, this is the barrier; the princes in the Kui Wenjiao and Fenwuwei areas, this is the wall; for foreigners outside Jiuzhou, this is the fence: each is named according to his own area, and in total it is the world.
After that, there were changes every year, and one county even changed its name five times before finally returning to its original name.
Officials and people could not record so much. Every time they issued a Shao letter, they always appended the original name, for example: Order Dayin and Taiwei of Chenliu County: Order the area south of Yisui County to be assigned to Xinping County.
Xinping County is the original Huaiyang County.
The area east of Yongqiu County was placed under Chending County.
Chending County is the original Liang County.
The area surrounding Fengqiu County was placed under Zhiting County.
Zhiting County is the original Dong County.
The area west of Chenliu County was included in the Qi Tunnel.
Qi Tun is the original Rongyang.
Chenliu County no longer exists.
Dayin and Taiwei both came to the emperor.
His changes in government orders are all of this type.
Order schools across the country to use Wuzi Day instead of Jiazi Day as the beginning of every sixty days.
The Wuzi day is regarded as an auspicious day when holding a crown ceremony, and the ten days starting from Wuyin are regarded as unlucky days when a wedding is held.
Many people are disobedient.
The Xiongnu Chanyu Nangzhiyasi died, and his younger brother Xian became the Chanyu and asked for peace with the Central Plains.
Wang Mang sent envoys to present him with many gifts, deceived him into promising to return his son Deng, who came to the Central Plains to serve the emperor, and paid for the extradition of Chen Liang, Zhong Dai and others.
Chan Yu then captured Chen Liang and others and handed them over to the envoys, who were sent to Chang'an in a prison car.
Wang Mang burned Chen Liang and others to death in the north of Chang'an City, and asked officials and people to gather to watch the execution.
There was a severe famine along the border and people were eating each other.
The remonstrating doctor Rupu inspected the border garrison and came back and said: The soldiers have been stationed at the border for a long time and their lives are very hard. The border counties have no supplies.
Now that Shan Yu has just made peace with us, we should take this opportunity to retreat.
Colonel Han Wei suggested: Eating the Xiongnu with the power of the new dynasty is like eating fleas and lice wrapped in the mouth.
I am willing to ask for five thousand brave soldiers, who will not carry a bushel of food, eat the flesh of the enemy when hungry, drink their blood when thirsty, and run rampant in the territory of the Xiongnu.
Wang Mang thought his words were heroic and appointed Han Wei as general.
However, Rupu's advice was adopted and the generals stationed at the border were transferred back.
Eighteen people including Chen Qin were dismissed from their general duties, and the four generals of the front, rear, left and right gates guarding the capital and the six lieutenants garrisoned were abolished.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
会匈奴使还，单于知侍子登前诛死，发兵寇边，莽复发军屯。
于是边民流入内郡，为人奴婢，乃禁吏民敢挟边民者弃市。
益州蛮夷杀大尹程隆，三边尽反。
遣平蛮将军冯茂将兵击之。
宁始将军侯辅免，讲《易》祭酒戴参为宁始将军。
二年二月，置酒王路堂，公卿、大夫皆佐酒。
大赦天下。
是时，日中见星。
大司马苗左迁司命，以延德侯陈茂为大司马。
讹言黄龙堕死黄山宫中，百姓奔走往观者以万数。
莽恶之，捕系问语所从起，不能得。
单于咸既和亲，求其子登尸，莽欲遣使送致，恐咸怨恨害使者，乃收前言当诛侍子者故将军陈钦，以他罪系狱。
钦曰： 是欲以我为说于匈奴也。
遂自杀。
莽选儒生能颛对者济南王咸为大使，五威将琅邪伏黯等为帅，使送登尸。
敕令掘单于知墓，棘鞭其尸。
又令匈奴却塞于漠北，责单于马万争，牛三万头，羊十万头，及稍所略边民生口在者皆还之。
莽好为大言如此。
咸到单于庭，陈莽威德，责单于背畔之罪，应敌从横，单于不能诎，遂致命而还之。
入塞，咸病死，封其子为伯，伏黯等皆为子。
莽意以为制定则天下自平，故锐思于地理，制礼作乐，讲合《六经》之说。
公卿旦入暮出，议论连年不决，不暇省狱讼冤结民之急务。
县宰缺者，数年守兼，一切贪残日甚。
中郎将、绣衣执法在郡国者，并乘权势，传相举奏。
又十一公士分布劝农桑，班时令，案诸章，冠盖相望，交错道路，召会吏民，逮捕证左，郡县赋敛，递相赇赂，白黑纷然，守阙告诉者多。
莽自见前颛权以得汉政，故务自揽众事，有司受成苟免。
诸宝物名、帑藏、钱谷官，皆宦者领之；吏民上封事书，宦官左右开发，尚书不得知。
其畏备臣下如此。
又好变改制度，政令烦多，当奉行者，辄质问乃以从前，前后相乘，愦眊不渫。
莽常御灯火至明，犹不能胜。
尚书因是为奸寝事，上书待报者连年不得去，拘系郡县者逢赦而后出，卫卒不交代三岁矣。
translation: 
When the Xiongnu envoy returned, Shanyu learned that his son who had come to the Central Plains to serve the emperor had been executed some time ago, so he sent troops to invade the border. Wang Mang mobilized troops to garrison.
So the people from the border fled to the inner county and became slaves. A ban was issued: officials and civilians who dared to hide the exiled people from the border were punished by death.
The Yizhou County tribe killed Dayin Chenglong, and many tribes on the border rebelled.
The Pingman general Feng Mao was sent to lead an army to attack them.
Hou Fu, the general of Ningshi, was dismissed from his post, and Dai Shen was appointed as the general of Ningshi.
In February of the second year, a banquet was held in Wanglu Hall, and all the officials and officials attended the banquet.
A national amnesty was declared.
At this time, the stars appeared at noon.
Miao Xin, the Grand Sima, was demoted to the position of Commander, and Chen Mao, Marquis of Yande, was appointed as the Grand Sima.
It was rumored that Huanglong fell to his death in the Huangshan Palace, and tens of thousands of people rushed to see the heat gate.
Wang Mang hated this incident and arrested some people to ask where the rumor originated, but he couldn't find it.
Chan Yu Xian had reconciled with the Central Plains and asked for the body of his son Deng. Wang Mang wanted to send an envoy to deliver it. Fearing that Xian would be resentful for harming the envoy, he arrested Chen Qin, the former general who had proposed to execute Deng, and put him in prison on other charges.
Chen Qin said: This is because he wants to use me as a scapegoat to explain to the Huns.
So he committed suicide.
Wang Mang selected Wang Xian from Jinan County, a Confucian scholar who was good at negotiation and repartee, as his special envoy, and Wuwei General Fu An and others from Langye County as military attachés, asking them to return Deng's body.
He ordered the Xiongnu to dig up Shanyu Nangzhiyasi's tomb and beat his body with thorns.
He also ordered the Xiongnu to withdraw the border to the north of the Great Gobi, and asked the Chanyu for 10,000 horses, 30,000 cattle, and 100,000 sheep, and to hand back all the prisoners of the border who were still alive after they had robbed them casually.
Wang Mang likes to talk big like this.
Wang Xian arrived at Shan Yu's court, stated Wang Mang's prestige and virtue, and condemned Shan Yu's crime of betrayal. He adapted to the situation and responded fluently. Shan Yu could not overwhelm him, so he returned after conveying the order.
After entering the border, Wang Xian died of illness, and his son was granted the title of earl, and Fu An and others were made viscount.
Wang Mang believed in the system in his heart. It was determined that the world would naturally be peaceful, so we carefully thought about geography, formulated etiquette, created music and teachings, and paid attention to the theories in the Six Classics.
The ministers go to court in the morning and leave the court in the evening, discussing for years, unable to make decisions, and have no time to deal with lawsuits and solve the problems that the people urgently need to solve.
When the county magistrate is in short supply, someone else often takes over for several years. Corruption and perversion of the law become more severe every day.
Zhonglang generals and Xiuyi law enforcement officers stationed in various counties and counties have used their power to implicate and report everywhere.
There are also officials from the Eleventh Duke distributed throughout the country, supervising farming and sericulture, promulgating decrees on agricultural affairs, and checking the implementation of various rules and regulations. Messengers come and go on the road, summoning officials and civilians, arresting witnesses, looting property from prefectures and counties, and bribing people at all levels. There is confusion between right and wrong, and no distinction between clean and dirty. It is a lot of pain to stay in the court to complain grievances.
Wang Mang saw that he had gained the power of the Han Dynasty through his former monopoly, so he had to take charge of all affairs by himself, and the officials in charge accepted the established decrees and followed the stories, just to avoid guilt.
All confidential departments, the treasury, and the money and grain officials are all managed by eunuchs; officials and civilians submit sealed reports, and the eunuchs open them at his side, leaving the minister unknown.
His guarded subordinates looked like this.
He also likes to change the system, and there are too many government orders. Those that should be implemented by the subordinates always have to repeatedly ask for instructions and then follow the instructions. As a result, the previous matters are not dealt with, and the later matters catch up again, creating confusion and endless confusion.
Wang Mang often kept the lights on until dawn, but he still hadn't finished the work.
The minister took this opportunity to commit fraud and obstruct his subordinates. He reported that he could not leave for several years while waiting for an answer. Those imprisoned in county jails had to be amnesty before they could be released. The garrison soldiers in the capital were not replaced for three years.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
谷常贵，边兵二十余万人仰衣食，县官愁若。
五原、代郡尤被其毒，起为盗贼，数千人为辈，转入旁郡。
莽遣捕盗将军孔仁将与兵郡县合击，岁余乃定，边郡亦略将尽。
邯郸以北大雨雾，水出，深者数丈，流杀数千人。
立国将军孙建死，司命赵闳为立国将军。
宁始将军戴参归故官，南城将军廉丹为宁始将军。
三年二月乙酉，地震，大雨雪，关东尤甚，深者一丈，竹柏或枯。
大司空王邑上书言： 视事八年，功业不效，司空之职尤独废顿，至乃有地震之变。
愿乞骸骨。
莽曰： 夫地有动有震，震者有害，动者不害。
《春秋》记地震，《易·系》 坤 动，动静辟胁，万物生焉。
灾异之变，各有云为。
天地动威，以戒予躬，公何辜焉，而乞骸骨，非所以助予者也。
使诸吏散骑司禄大卫脩宁男遵谕予意焉。
五月，莽下吏禄制度，曰： 予遭阳九之厄，百六之会，国用不足，民人骚动，自公卿以下，一月之禄十緵布二匹，或帛一匹。
予每念之，未尝不戚焉。
今厄会已度，府帑虽未能充，略颇稍给，其以六月朔庚寅始，赋吏禄皆如制度。
四辅公、卿、大夫、士，下至舆僚，凡十五等。
僚禄一岁六十六斛，稍以差增，上至四辅而为万斛云。
莽又曰： 普天之下，莫非王土；率土之宾，莫非王臣。盖以天下养焉。
《周礼》膳羞百有二十品，今诸侯各食其同、国、则；辟、任、附城食其邑；公、卿、大夫、元士食其采。
多少之差，咸有条品。
岁丰穰则充其礼，有灾害则有所损，与百姓同忧喜也。
translation: 
Grain is often very expensive. More than 200,000 people in the border guards are waiting for food and clothing, and the government is also very troubled.
Wuyuan County and Dai County were particularly affected. People took risks by boat and carried out robberies. Thousands of people gathered in groups and moved to neighboring counties.
Wang Mang sent the bandit general Kong Ren to lead an army to jointly attack with local troops. It took more than a year to pacify the situation, and the people in the border counties went into exile and almost all of them were gone.
Heavy rain and fog fell in the area north of Handan City, and groundwater gushed out. The water was several feet deep in places, washing away thousands of people and drowning them.
The founding general Sun Jian died, and Zhao Hong was appointed as the founding general.
Dai Shen, the general of Ningshi, returned to his original post, and Lian Dan, the general of Nancheng, became the general of Ningshi.
On Yiyou day in February of the third year, there was an earthquake and heavy snowfall, especially in the Kanto region. The snow was ten feet deep in places, and some bamboos and cypresses withered.
Wang Yi, the Grand Sikong, reported: After eight years in office, there has been no success in the work, and Sikong's duties are especially close to being paralyzed, and even earthquake accidents have occurred.
I would like to request retirement.
Wang Mang said: Small movements in the ground can cause big earthquakes. Big earthquakes are harmful, but small movements are harmless.
"Spring and Autumn" recorded earthquakes, and "Yixi" recorded earthquakes. It is said in "Kun" that the earth moves. When it moves, it opens and when it is still, it closes. This is how all things happen.
The occurrence of disasters and strange phenomena each have different meanings and effects.
The majesty of heaven and earth is used to warn myself, what are your faults? But asking for retirement creates an attitude that is not meant to help me.
I sent various officials, including Sanqi Sulu, David Xiuning and Nanzun, to tell me what I wanted.
During May. Wang Mang issued the official salary system and said: I encountered an unfortunate fate, a cycle of disasters, insufficient national fiscal expenditures, and people's unrest. From the official level below, the monthly salary was only eighty strands of linen, two pieces of cloth, or one piece of silk.
Every time I think about this matter, I feel sad.
Now that the difficult period has passed, although the national treasury reserves are not sufficient, they are slightly more abundant. Starting from Gengyin, the first day of June, officials should be paid salaries according to the system.
There are fifteen levels in total, ranging from Sifu, Gong, Qing, officials, scholars, to numerous staff.
The salary of a staff member is sixty-six dendrobium per year, which gradually increases according to level, up to the fourth assistant, which is ten thousand dendrobium.
Wang Mang added: There is no place in the world that is not the king's land; there is no one in the country who is not the king's subject. Originally, the world's wealth was used to support you.
"The Rites of Zhou" stipulates that there are one hundred and twenty kinds of fine food to be presented to the emperor. Now the princes each take the Tong, Guo, and Ze that are given to them;
There are certain regulations for each level.
When the harvest is good every year, we should prepare as much as possible according to the etiquette. When encountering disasters, we should reduce it and share the joys and sorrows with the common people.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
其用上计时通计，天下幸无灾害者，太官膳羞备其品矣；即有灾害，以什率多少而损膳焉。
东岳太师立国将军保东方三州一部二十五郡；南岳太傅前将军保南方二州一部二十五郡；西岳国师宁始将军保西方一州二部二十五郡；北岳国将卫将军保北方二州一部二十五郡；大司马保纳卿、言卿、仕卿、作卿、京尉、扶尉，兆队、右队、中部左洎前七部；大司徒保乐卿、典卿、宗卿、秩卿、翼尉、光尉、左队、前队、中部、右部，有五郡；大司空保予卿、虞卿、共卿、工卿、师尉、列尉、祈队、后队、中部洎后十郡；及六司，六卿，皆随所属之公保其灾害，亦以十率多少而损其禄。
郎、从官、中都官吏食禄都内之委者，以太官膳羞备损而为节。
诸侯、辟、任、附城、群吏亦各保其灾害。
几上下同心，劝进农业，安元元焉。
莽之制度烦碎如此，课计不可理，吏终不得禄，各因官职为奸，受取赇赂以自共给。
是月戊辰，长平馆西岸崩，邕泾水不流，毁而北行。
遣大司空王邑行视，还奏状，群臣上寿，以为《河图》所谓 以土填水 ，匈奴灭亡之祥也。
乃遣并州牧宋弘、游击都尉任萌等将兵击匈奴，至边止屯。
七月辛酉，霸城门灾，民间所谓青门也。
戊子晦，日有食之。
大赦天下，复令公卿、大夫、诸侯、二千石举四行各一人。
大司马陈茂以日食免，武建伯严尤为大司马。
十月戊辰，王路朱鸟门鸣，昼夜不绝，崔发等曰： 虞帝辟四门，通四聪。
门鸣者，明当修先圣之礼，招四方之士也。
于是令群臣皆贺，所举四行从朱鸟门入而对策焉。
translation: 
The statistics at the end of the year should be used as the basis. Fortunately, there are no disasters in the country, and all kinds of good food donated by the Taigong are available; if there is a disaster, the food donated should be reduced according to the percentage.
The Grand Master of Dongyue and General Liguo are linked to the 25 counties of the First Division of the Three Prefectures of the East; the Grand Tutor and the former general of Nanyue are linked to the 25 counties of the First Division of the Second Province of the South; The five counties were hooked up; the generals of Beiyue and Wei were hooked up with the twenty-five counties of the first two states in the north; Da Sima and Naqing, Yanqing, Shiqing, and Zuoqing joined the Jingwei, Fuwei, Zhao brigade, right brigade, middle and left brigade to the front. Ten counties were put up on hooks; Da Situ put up hooks with five prefectures, namely Yueqing, Dianqing, Zongqing, Zhiqing, Yiwei, Guangwei, Zuo team, Qian team, middle part and right team; Da Sikong put up hooks with Yu Qing, Yu Qing, Gong Qing, Gong Qing, Shi Wei and Lie. A total of ten counties, including the Wei, Qi, and Hou, from the middle to the rear, are linked together; as well as the Sixth Division and the Sixth Minister, they are all linked to the disasters in the relevant areas according to the ministers they are subordinate to, and their salaries are also reduced according to the percentage.
Langguan, attendants and officials in the capital, who receive their salaries from the grain stored in the capital's warehouses and wrapped in bread, use the completeness or reduction of the fine food presented by the eunuchs as a standard.
The princes, lords, lords, attached cities and various service personnel are also linked to the disasters in the relevant areas.
I hope that the emperor and his ministers will work together to encourage and promote agricultural production and appease the kind-hearted people.
Wang Mang's system is as broken as this. It is difficult to calculate the country's accounting statements. After all, officials cannot receive their salaries. They each use their power to do bad things and rely on accepting bribes to provide for their own needs.
On Wuchen day of this month, the west bank of Changpingguan collapsed, blocking the Jinghe River, breaking the dam and flowing northward.
He sent Chief Sikong to Wang Yi to inspect and reported the situation. The ministers congratulated Wang Mang, thinking that using earth to subdue water was what the "River Map" said, and it was a good omen for the demise of the Xiongnu.
So Song Hong, the governor of Bingzhou, and Ren Meng, the guerrilla captain, were sent to lead the army to attack the Xiongnu and stationed at the border.
On Xinyou Day in July, a fire broke out at Ba City Gate, which is what the people call Qingmen.
On the last day of Wuzi this month, there was a solar eclipse.
A national amnesty was declared. He also ordered the ministers, princes, and two thousand stone-level officials to recommend one person each who is outstanding in the four subjects of virtue, political affairs, speech, and literature.
The Grand Sima Chen Mao was dismissed due to the solar eclipse, and Wu Jianboyan You became the Grand Sima.
On the Wuchen day of the tenth month, the Zhuniao Gate on Wanglu made a sound that did not stop day or night. Cui Fa and others said: Emperor Yu opened the four gates so that he could hear from all directions.
Zhuwumen shouted, indicating that the new dynasty should revise the etiquette of the ancient holy kings and attract wise men from all over.
So all the ministers came to congratulate him, and the recommended outstanding men in the four subjects entered the palace from Zhuwumen to answer the emperor's questions.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
平蛮将军冯茂击句町，士卒疾疫，死者什六七，赋敛民财什取五，益州虚耗而不克，征还下狱死。
更遣宁始将军廉丹与庸部牧史熊击句町，颇斩首，有胜。
莽征丹、熊，丹、熊愿益调度，必克乃还。
复大赋敛，就都大尹冯英不肯给，上言 自越巂遂久仇牛、同亭邪豆之属反畔以来，积且十年，郡县距击不已。
续用冯茂，苟施一切之政。
僰道以南，山险高深，茂多驱众远居，费以亿计，吏士离毒气死者什七。
今丹、熊惧于自诡期会，调发诸郡兵、谷，复訾民取其十四，空破梁州，功终不遂。
宜罢兵屯田，明设购赏。
莽怒，免英官。
后颇觉寤，曰： 英亦未可厚非。
复以英为长沙连率。
翟义党王孙庆捕得，莽使太医、尚方与巧屠共刳剥之，量度五藏，以竹筵导其脉，知所终始，云可以治病。
是岁，遣大使五威将王骏、西域都护李崇将戊己校尉出西域，诸国皆郊迎贡献焉。
诸国前杀都护但钦，骏欲袭之，命佐帅何封、戊己校尉郭钦别将。
焉耆诈降，伏兵击骏等，旨死。
钦、封后到，袭击老弱，从车师还入塞。
莽拜钦为填外将军，封劋胡子。何封为集胡男。
西域自此绝。
translation: 
Pingman general Feng Mao attacked Juding, and the soldiers were infected by the plague. Sixty-seven out of ten people died. He levied the people's property and took away five out of ten. The people of Yizhou County were destitute and the war was not successful. Wang Mang transferred him back and put him in prison, where he died.
Then Ningshi General Lian Dan and Yongbu Mu Shixiong were sent to attack Gouding, killing some enemies and achieving a certain victory.
Wang Mang transferred Lian Dan and Shi Xiong. Lian Dan and Shi Xiong hoped to increase their troops and supplies, and they would not return until they completely defeated the enemy.
They also searched wildly and chose the stems of Dayin Dayin, which they refused to give. They reported that it had been almost ten years since the Qiuniu tribes in Suijiu County, Yuehe County and the Xedou tribes in Tongting County rebelled. The local military and civilians in counties and counties have been fighting against each other for almost ten years.
Then he appointed Feng Mao and reluctantly implemented policies regardless of the consequences.
In the area south of Fendao County, the mountains are steep and deep. Feng Mao tried his best to drive the people to live in distant places. The cost was calculated in hundreds of millions. Seven out of ten officers and soldiers died from poison gas.
Now Lian Dan and Shi Xiong were afraid that they would not be able to complete the task within the specified time limit. They mobilized soldiers and food from various counties, and also plundered the people's property and took away four-tenths of their property. As a result, the people of Liangzhou area were destitute and financially exhausted, but they were still unable to win.
The fighting should be stopped, troops should be sent to guard and cultivate the fields, and rewards should be clearly stipulated to reward those soldiers and civilians who have meritorious service in the resistance.
Wang Mang got angry and dismissed Feng Ying from his official position.
Later, he realized something and said: Feng Ying can't blame him deeply.
Feng Ying was also appointed as the company commander of Changsha County.
Wang Sunqing, a party member of Zhai Yi, caught him. Wang Mang asked the imperial physician, pharmacist and skilled butcher to dissect him, measure his internal organs, penetrate his veins with small bamboo branches, find out its ins and outs, and show that it can be used to treat diseases.
This year, the special envoys Wuwei General Wang Zhui and Youqiu Protector Kui Chong led Wuji Xiaowei on an envoy to the Western Regions. All countries went to the countryside to welcome him and presented their belongings.
The various countries had killed Dan Fu, the governor of Youyu, and Wang Bi wanted to attack them, so he ordered his deputy commander Bao Guo and Wuji captain Huang Yao to lead their troops to act alone.
Yanqi State lied about surrendering and ambushed its troops to attack Wang Jun and others. They all died.
Guo Qin and He Feng arrived late, attacked their old and weak remnants, and entered the border via Huangmianli.
Yu Mang appointed Guo Fu as the general outside the town, granted him the title of Maggot King, and Dan Guo as Ji Hu Nan.
From then on, it severed all relations with other countries in the Western Regions.


