Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏豹，故魏诸公子也。
其兄魏咎，故魏时封为宁陵君，秦灭魏，为庶人。
陈胜之王也，咎往从之。
胜使魏人周市徇魏地，魏地已下，欲立周市为魏王。
市曰： 天下昏乱，忠臣乃见。
今天下共畔秦，其谊必立魏王后乃可。
齐、赵使车各五十乘，立市为王。
市不受，迎魏咎于陈，五反，陈王乃遣立咎为魏王。
章邯已破陈王，进兵击魏王于临济。
魏王使周市请救齐、楚。
齐、楚遣项它、田巴将兵，随市救魏。
章邯遂击破杀周市等军，围临济。
咎为其民约降。
约降定，咎自杀。
魏豹亡走楚。
楚怀王予豹数千人，复徇魏地。
项羽已破秦兵，降章邯，豹下魏二十余城，立为魏王。
豹引精兵从项羽入关。
羽封诸侯，欲有梁地，乃徙豹于河东，都平阳，为西魏王。
汉王还定三秦，渡临晋，豹以国属焉，遂从击楚于彭城。
translation: 
Wei Bao was the son of Wei State during the Six Kingdoms period.
His elder brother Wei Jiu was named Lord Ningling at that time. After Qin destroyed Wei, he was deposed as a commoner.
After Chen Sheng rebelled and proclaimed himself king, Wei Jiu went to serve him.
Chen Sheng sent a Wei man named Zhou Shi to lead his troops to capture the land of Wei. After occupying it, he wanted to make Zhou Shi the king of Wei.
Zhou Shi said: Only when the world is in chaos can the integrity of loyal ministers be seen.
Now that the whole world has betrayed Qin, it stands to reason that the king of Wei should be established after him.
Qi and Tang each sent fifty military chariots to help support Zhou Shi as king.
Zhou Shi refused to accept it and sent people to Chen County to meet Wei Jiu. After five trips, King Chen agreed to make Wei Jiu the king of Wei.
Zhang Han defeated King Chen and raised his troops to Linji to attack King Wei.
The king of Wei sent Zhou Shi to Qi and Chu to request reinforcements.
Qi and Chu sent Xiang Ta and Tian Ba ​​to lead the army together with Zhou Shi to rescue Wei.
Zhang Han defeated them again, killed Zhou Shi and others, and surrounded Linji.
In order to save the people in the city, Wei Jiu agreed to surrender to the Qin army.
After the agreement was made, Wei Jiu committed suicide and died.
Wei Bao fled to Chu.
King Huai of Chu sent thousands of troops to Wei Bao to recapture the land of Wei.
By this time, Xiang Yu had defeated the Qin army and captured Zhang Han. Wei Bao captured more than 20 cities and was made king of Wei by Xiang Yu.
Wei Bao led his army to follow Xiang Yu into the pass.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu divided the feudal lords. He wanted to occupy Daliang, so he moved Wei Bao to Hedong, established his capital in Pingyang, and named him King of the Western Wei Dynasty.
The King of Han almost ordered the Three Qin Dynasties to cross the Yellow River from Linjin. The King of Wei, Wei Bao, surrendered the whole country to the King of Han, and followed the King of Han to attack the Chu army in Pengcheng.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉王败，还至荥阳，豹请视亲病，至国，则绝河津畔汉。
汉王谓郦生曰： 缓颊往说之。
郦生往，豹谢曰： 人生一世间，如白驹过隙。
今汉王嫚侮人，骂詈诸侯群臣如奴耳，非有上下礼节，吾不忍复见也。
汉王遣韩信击豹，遂虏之，传豹诣荥阳，以其地为河东、太原、上党郡。
汉王令豹守荥阳。
楚围之急，周苛曰： 反国之王，难与共守。
遂杀豹。
田儋，狄人也，故齐王田氏之族也。
儋从弟荣，荣弟横，皆豪桀，宗强，能得人。
陈涉使周市略地，北至狄，狄城守。
儋阳为缚其奴，从少年之廷，欲谒杀奴。
见狄令，因击杀令，而召豪吏子弟曰： 诸侯皆反秦自立，齐，古之建国，儋，田氏，当王。
translation: 
The king of Han failed and retreated to Rongyang. Wei Bao asked to go back to visit his mother's condition. After returning to Wei, he blocked the crossing of the Yellow River and betrayed the King of Han.
The king of Han said to Li Sheng: Go and persuade Wei Bao to submit.
Li Sheng arrived in Wei. Wei Bao declined politely and said: Life is very short.
The King of Han insults people at will and scolds the princes and ministers as if they were slaves. He has no courtesy at all. I don't want to bear the anger and go to see him again.
So the King of Han sent Han Xin to attack Wei Bao, captured him, and escorted him to Rongyang, dividing Wei Bao's original territory into three counties: Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang.
The king of Han asked Wei Bao to garrison Rongyang.
At that time, the Chu army was attacking Rongyang, and the situation was urgent. Zhou Ke said: "You cannot defend with those who betray the country."
Then he killed Wei Bao.
Tian Dan, a native of Di County, was a member of the Tian clan, King of Qi during the Six Kingdoms period.
Tian Dan's cousin Tian Rong and Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng were both heroes. Their clans were powerful and respected.
Chen She sent Zhou Shi to capture Wei and went north to Di County, but failed to capture it in the end.
Tian Dan pretended to kill his slave, and brought his young men with him, tied up the slave, and came to see the magistrate of Di County. When he saw the magistrate, he took the opportunity to kill him.
Then he summoned the sons of powerful officials and said: "The princes from all walks of life have proclaimed themselves kings and rebelled against Qin. Qi is a country that was enfeoffed in ancient times. I, Tian Dan, am a member of the Tian family of King Qi, so I should be king."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
遂自立为齐王，发兵击周市。
市军还去，儋因率兵东略定齐地。
秦将章邯围魏王咎于临济，急。
魏王请救于齐，儋将兵救魏。
章邯夜衔枚击，大破齐、楚军，杀儋于临济下。
儋从弟荣收儋余兵东走东阿。
齐人闻儋死，乃立故齐王建之弟田假为王，田角为相，田闲为将，以距诸侯。
荣之走东阿，章邯追围之。
项梁闻荣急，乃引兵击破章邯东阿下。
章邯走而西，项梁因追之。
而荣怒齐之立假，乃引兵归，击逐假。
假亡走楚。相角亡走赵。
角弟闲前救赵。因不敢归。
荣乃立儋市为王，荣相之，横为将，平齐地。
项梁既追章邯，章邯兵益盛，项梁使使趣齐兵共击章邯。
荣曰： 楚杀田假，赵杀角、闲，乃出兵。
楚怀王曰： 田假与国之王，穷而归我，杀之不谊。
赵亦不杀田角、田闲以市于齐。
齐王曰： 蝮蠚手则斩手，蠚足则斩足。
translation: 
So Tian Dan declared himself king and sent troops to attack Zhou City.
Zhou's army retreated, and Tian Dan took the opportunity to expand eastward and pacify Qi's territory.
The army of General Zhang Han of the State of Qin surrounded Wei King Wei Jiu in Linji, and the situation was urgent.
The King of Wei asked Qi for help, and King Tian Dan of Qi personally led an army to rescue the King of Wei.
Zhang Han sent troops to sneak around the streets at night, defeated the Qi and Chu armies, and killed Tian Dan at the foot of Linji City.
Tian Dan's cousin Tian Rong gathered up the remaining soldiers of Qi and fled eastward to Dong'a.
When the people of Qi heard that Tian Dan had died in battle, they made Tian Jia, the younger brother of the former King of Qi Tian Jian, the king of Qi. Tian Jiao was appointed prime minister, and Tian Xian was appointed general to resist the princes.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to Shu'a, but Zhang Han pursued and surrounded him.
Xiang Liang heard the news that Tian Rong was in danger, so he led his troops to defeat Zhang Han's army under Dong'a City.
Zhang Han fled to the west, and Xiang Liang took advantage of the situation to pursue him.
Tian Rong was very angry when he learned that the state of Qi had made Tianjie king. He led his army back to the state of Qi and defeated the king of Qi, Tianjia.
Tian Jia fled to Chu State, and Prime Minister Tian Jiao fled to Zhao State.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Xian had gone to Zhao State to request reinforcements before, so he stayed in Zhao State and did not dare to come back.
So Tian Rong made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi the king of Qi. Tian Rong assisted him, and Tian Heng became the general, and the Qi country was pacified.
Xiang Liang pursued Zhang Han, but Zhang Han's army became increasingly powerful. Xiang Liang sent an envoy to urge Qi to send troops to join the Chu army to attack Zhang Han.
Tian Rong said: Only when the Chu State kills Tian Jia and the Tong State kills Tian Jiao and Tian Xian will they be willing to send troops.
King Huai of Chu said: Tianjia is the king of my ally, and he surrendered to me when he had no other choice. It would be unethical to kill him.
The state of Tang was not willing to kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian to please the state of Qi.
King Qi said: If the viper bites the hand, cut off the hand; if the viper bites the foot, cut off the foot.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
何者？
为害于身也。
田假、田角、田闲于楚、赵，非手足戚，何故不杀？
且秦复得志于天下，则齮龁首用事者坟墓矣。
楚、赵不听齐，齐亦怒，终不肯出兵。
章邯果败杀项梁，破楚兵。
楚兵东走，而章邯渡河围赵于巨鹿。
项羽由此怨荣。
羽既存赵，降章邯，西灭秦，立诸侯王，乃徙齐王市更王胶东，治即墨。
齐将田都从共救赵，因入关，故立都为齐王，治临菑。
故齐王建孙田安，项羽方渡河救赵，安下济北数城，引兵降项羽，羽立安为济北王，治博阳。
荣以负项梁，不肯助楚攻秦，故不得王。
赵将陈馀亦失职，不得王。
二人俱怨项羽。
荣使人将兵助陈馀，令反赵地，而荣亦发兵以距击田都，都亡走楚。
translation: 
Why?
Because if you don’t do this, it will harm your whole body.
Tianjia, Tianjiao, and Tianxian are not brothers to Chu and Tang, so why not kill them?
Moreover, if Qin can rule the world again, those who first raise armies and become kings will not only be humiliated, but also have their graves dug up after their death.
Chu and Tang did not follow Qi's advice, and Qi was very angry and refused to send troops.
Zhang Han indeed defeated the Chu army and killed Xiang Liang.
The Chu army fled eastward, and Zhang Han crossed the river and surrounded Zhao at Julu.
Xiang Yu also resented Tian Rong for this.
Xiang Yu had secured Zhao State, surrendered Zhang Han, marched westward to Xianyang, destroyed Qin State, made a marquis and established a king, he changed the title of Qi King Tianshi to Jiaodong King, and established Jimo as the capital.
Tian Du, a general of the Qi State, participated in the rescue of the Zhao State and allowed Xiang Yu to enter the Pass. Therefore, Tian Du was made King of Qi and his capital was Linmiao.
Tian An, the grandson of Tian Jian, the former King of Qi during the Six Kingdoms period, captured several cities in Jibei when Xiang Yu crossed the river to rescue Zhao, and led his army to defect to Xiang Yu. Therefore, Xiang Yu made Tian An the king of Jibei and made Boyang his capital.
Because Tian Rong was carrying Xiang Liang and refused to send troops to help the Chu army attack the Qin army, he was not crowned king.
Chen Yu, the general of Zhao State, also failed to make him king because of his dereliction of duty.
Both of them hated Xiang Yu deeply.
Tian Rong sent troops to help Chen Yu and asked him to attack Zhao. Tian Rong himself also sent troops to attack Tiandu, and Tiandu fled to Chu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
荣留齐王市毋之胶东。
市左右曰： 项王强暴，王小就国，必危。
市惧，乃亡就国。
荣怒，追击杀市于即墨，还攻杀济北王安，自立为王，尽并三齐之地。
项王闻之，大怒，乃北伐齐。
荣发兵距之城阳。
荣兵败，走平原，平原民杀荣。
项羽遂烧夷齐城郭，所过尽屠破。
齐人相聚畔之。
荣弟横收齐散兵，得数万人，反击项羽于城阳。
而汉王帅诸侯败楚，入彭城。
项羽闻之，乃释齐而归击汉于彭城，因连与汉战，相距荥阳。
以故横复收齐城邑，立荣子广为王，而横相之，政事无巨细皆断于横。
定齐三年，闻汉将韩信引兵且东击齐，齐使华毋伤、田解军历下以距汉。
translation: 
Tian Rong detained King Qi Tianshi and refused to let him go to Micellar.
Tian Shi's cronies said: King Xiang is strong and violent. If you don't go and take office, there will definitely be disaster.
Tian Shi was afraid, so he secretly escaped to Miaojie and took up his post.
Tian Rong was furious, chased Tian Shi in Jimo and killed him, then turned around and attacked Tian An, the king of Jibei. So Tian Rong established himself as the king of Qi and annexed the territory of San Qi.
When Xiang Yu heard about the dispatch, he was furious and sent troops to attack Qi in the north.
Tian Rong sent troops to resist Xiang Yu in Chengyang.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to the plains, where he was killed by the local people.
Xiang Yu burned down the walls of Qi and massacred wherever he went.
So the people of Qi gathered to resist him.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng gathered up the remnants of Qi's troops and gathered tens of thousands of people to attack Xiang Yu's army in Chengyang.
At this time, Liu Bang, the king of Han, led various princes to defeat the Chu army and entered Pengcheng.
When Xiang Yu got the news, he spared Qi and returned to Pengcheng to attack the Han army. As a result, he fought with Mo continuously, and the two sides were at a stalemate in Rongyang.
So Tian Heng restored the cities of Qi State and made Tian Rong's son Tian Guang the king of Qi. Tian Heng came to assist him. All political affairs of Qi State were decided by Tian Heng, no matter how big or small.
Tian Heng had been pacifying Qi for three years when he suddenly heard that Han Xin, the general of the King of Han, was leading his troops east to attack Qi. The State of Qi sent troops led by Hua Wushang and Tian Jie to garrison at Lixia to fight against the Han army.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
会汉使郦食其往说王广及相横，与连和。
横然之，乃罢历下守备，纵酒，且遣使与汉平。韩信乃渡平原。袭破齐历下军，因入临菑。
王广、相横以郦生为卖己而亨之。
广东走高密，横走博，守相田光走城阳，将军田既军于胶东。
楚使龙且救齐，齐王与合军高密。
汉将韩信、曹参破杀龙且，虏齐王广。
汉将灌婴追得守相光，至博。
而横闻王死，自立为王，还击婴，婴败横军于赢下。
横亡走梁，归彭越。
越时居梁地，中立，且为汉，且为楚。
韩信已杀龙且，因进兵破杀田既于胶东，灌婴破杀齐将田吸于千乘，遂平齐地。汉灭项籍，汉王立为皇帝，彭越为梁王。
横惧诛，而与其徒属五百余人入海，居隝中。
高帝闻之，以横兄弟本定齐，齐人贤者多附焉，今在海中不收，后恐有乱，乃使使赦横罪而召之。
横谢曰： 臣亨陛下之使郦食其，今闻其弟商为汉将而贤，臣恐惧，不敢奉诏，请为庶人，守海隝中。
使还报，高帝乃诏卫尉郦商曰： 齐王横即至，人马从者敢动摇者致族夷！
乃复使使持节具告以诏意，曰： 横来，大者王，小者乃侯耳；不来，且发兵加诛。
横乃与其客二人乘传诣雒阳。
至尸乡厩置，横谢使者曰： 人臣见天子，当洗沐。
止留。
谓其客曰： 横始与汉王俱南面称孤，今汉王为天子，而横乃为亡虏，北面事之，其愧固已甚矣。
translation: 
It happened that Li Shiqi, the envoy of the King of Han, came to Qi to persuade King Tian Guang of Qi, Prime Minister Tian Heng and the King of Han to jointly attack Chu.
Tian Heng agreed, so Lixia's defense was lifted, and the soldiers drank freely. Just as he was about to send an envoy to negotiate peace with the King of Han, Han Xin had already crossed the plain, defeated the Qi army stationed at Lixia, and entered Linmiao.
Qi King Tian Guang and Prime Minister Tian Heng believed that Li Sheng was conspiring with Han Xin, so they cooked Li Sheng.
Tian Guang fled eastward to Gaomi, Tian Heng fled to Bo County, Prime Minister Tian Guang fled to Chengyang, and General Tian Ji garrisoned in Jiaodong.
The state of Chu sent Long Qie to rescue the state of Qi. King Qi and Long Qie's army met at Gaomi.
The Han generals Han Xin and Cao Shen defeated the Chu army, killed Long Qie, and captured Qi King Tian Guang.
Han general Guan Ying chased and captured Qi's Prime Minister Tian Guang and came to Bo County.
When Tian Heng heard that King Qi was dead, he proclaimed himself king and returned to attack Guan Ying. Guan Ying defeated Tian Heng's army.
Tian Heng fled to Liangdi and joined Pengyue.
At this time, Peng Yue was stationed in Liangdi. He courted both Mo and Chu and remained neutral. After Han Xin killed Long Qie, he then marched into Jiaodong and killed Tian Ji.
Guan Ying defeated Qi general Tian Su and killed Tian Su in Qiancheng, so Han Xin pacified Qi. The Han Dynasty destroyed Xiang Ji, the king of Han established himself as emperor, and Peng Yue was named King of Liang.
Tian Heng was afraid of being killed, so he fled to the sea with more than 500 of his subordinates and lived on the island.
When Mo Gaozu Liu Bang heard the news, he thought that Brother Tian Heng had already pacified Qi, and many wise men of Qi had joined him. Now that he was living on the sea, if he did not recruit him, there might be trouble in the future, so he sent an envoy to pardon Tian Heng's crime and summon him.
Tian Heng declined politely and said: I cooked your Majesty's envoy Li Shiqi. I heard that his younger brother Li Shang is now a general of the Han army and a virtuous man. I am very worried, so I dare not follow the imperial edict. I hope to be an ordinary citizen and live on the island.
The messenger came back and reported to the emperor. Emperor Gaozu summoned Weiwei Li Shang and told him: King Tian Heng of Qi will come, and whoever dares to touch his subordinates will be punished with genocide!
So he sent an envoy with a talisman to tell Tian Heng the order given by Emperor Gaozu to Li Shang, and said: When Tian Heng comes, the older one will be made king and the younger one will be made marquis. If Tian Heng doesn't come, we will send troops to attack him.
Tian Heng then took two retainers to Luoyang in a carriage.
When they arrived at the place where horses were prepared for the post in Xixiang, Tian Heng said to the envoy: As a minister paying homage to the emperor, he should take a bath to purify himself.
So it stopped.
Tian Heng said to his disciples: At first, like the King of Han, I was a man facing south and proclaimed himself king. Now the King of Han has become the emperor. And I have become a prisoner of the subjugated country. It is really shameful to ask the north to surrender to him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
又吾亨人之兄，与其弟并肩而事主，纵彼畏天子之诏，不敢动摇，我独不愧于心乎？
且陛下所以欲见我，不过欲壹见我面貌耳。
陛下在雒阳，今斩吾头，驰三十里间，形容尚未能败，犹可知也。
遂自刭，令客奉其头，从使者驰奏之高帝。
高帝曰： 嗟乎，有以！
起布衣，兄弟三人更王，岂非贤哉！
为之流涕，而拜其二客为都尉，发卒二千，以王者礼葬横。
既葬，二客穿其冢旁，皆自刭从之。
高帝闻而大惊，以横之客皆贤者，吾闻其余尚五百人在海中，使使召至，闻横死，亦皆自杀。
于是乃知田横兄弟能得士也。
韩王信，故韩襄王孽孙也，长八尺五寸。
项梁立楚怀王，燕、齐、赵、魏皆已前王，唯韩无有后，故立韩公子横阳君成为韩王，欲以抚定韩地。
项梁死定陶，成奔怀王。
translation: 
Besides, I cooked someone else's brother, but I have to serve the same master with that person's brother. Even if he is afraid of the emperor's edict and dare not touch me, don't I feel ashamed in my heart?
Moreover, the reason why His Majesty summoned me was just to see my face.
Your Majesty is in Luoyang. Now, cut off my head and run for thirty miles. My appearance will not be corrupted, and you can still see what I look like.
After saying that he would commit suicide, let the disciples hold his head and follow the messenger to report it to Emperor Gao as soon as possible.
Gao Di said: Alas, it is not simple!
Starting as common people, three brothers became kings one after another. They are really virtuous!
He shed tears for this, and appointed two of Tian Heng's disciples as captains, and sent 2,000 troops to bury Tian Heng with the etiquette of a prince.
After the burial, the two retainers dug a hole beside Tian Heng's tomb and committed suicide.
Emperor Gao was greatly surprised when he heard this. He thought that Tian Heng's retainers were all virtuous. He heard that there were still five hundred retainers on the island in the sea, and sent envoy Shao to order them to Luoyang. When the retainers heard that Tian Heng was dead, they all committed suicide.
From this we can see that Brother Tian Heng is indeed someone who can be supported by the wise men.
King Xin of Han is the grandson of the original King Xiang of Han. He is eight feet five inches tall.
When Xiang Liang established King Huai of Chu, Yan, Qi, Tang, and Wei had all proclaimed themselves kings before that. Only South Korea had no descendants, so he made the South Korean prince Hengyang Juncheng the King of Han, hoping to appease and stabilize South Korea.
After Xiang Liang died in Dingtao, Han Wangcheng defected to King Huai of Chu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
沛公引兵击阳城，使张良以韩司徒徇韩地，得信，以为韩将，将其兵从入武关。
沛公为汉王，信从入汉中，乃说汉王曰： 项王王诸将，王独居此，迁也。
士卒皆山东人，竦而望归，及其蜂东乡，可以争天下。
汉王还定三秦，乃许王信，先拜为韩太尉，将兵略韩地。
项籍之封诸王皆就国，韩王成以不从无功，不遣之国，更封为穰侯，后又杀之。
闻汉遣信略韩地，乃令故籍游吴时令郑昌为韩王距汉。
汉二年，信略定韩地十余城。
汉王至河南，信急击韩王昌，昌降汉。
汉乃立信为韩王，常将韩兵从。
汉王使信与周苛等守荥阳，楚拔之，信降楚。
已得亡归汉，汉复以为韩王，竟从击破项籍。
五年春，与信剖符，王颖川。
六年春，上以为信壮武，北近巩、雒，南迫宛、叶，东有淮阳，皆天下劲兵处也，乃更以太原郡为韩国，徙信以备胡，都晋阳。
信上书曰： 国被边，匈奴数入，晋阳去塞远，请治马邑。
上许之。
translation: 
Pei Gong led troops to attack Yangcheng and sent Zhang Liang to occupy Korea as a Korean Situ. He found Xin and asked Xin to command the Korean troops and lead the army to follow Pei Gong to Wuguan.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, and Xin followed him into Hanzhong. Xin persuaded the king of Han, saying: King Xiang has divided the generals, but you are stationed here alone. Change your place.
The soldiers following you are all from Shandong, and they are all looking forward to going back. Once the desire to return eastward is strong, you can use this to fight for the world.
The King of Han returned to his army and pacified the San Qin area. He promised to make Xin the king in the future, and first worshiped him as the Taiwei of South Korea, and led his troops to occupy South Korea.
All the princes and kings entrusted by Xiang Ji returned to their respective states. Because King Cheng of Han did not go to war with the army and had no meritorious service, he was not sent to South Korea and was instead granted the title of Marquis of Zhou. Later, he was killed.
Hearing that the King of Han sent a letter to seize the land of Han, he appointed Zheng Chang, the magistrate of Wu County when he was in Wu County, as King of Han to fight against the King of Han's army.
In the second year of Mo, Xinping pacified more than ten cities in Han.
When the King of Han came to Henan, he rushed to attack Han Wangchang, and Han Wangchang surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, established his trust as the king of Han and asked him to always accompany him with Korean soldiers.
The king of Han asked Han Wangxin, Zhou Ke and others to garrison Rongyang. The city was captured by the Chu army, and Han Wangxin surrendered to the Chu army.
Soon he found an opportunity and fled back to Han. The king of Han named him King of Han. Finally, he followed the king of Han and defeated Xiang Ji.
In the spring of the fifth year, the King of Han cut his talisman with him, and he was in Ying!
For the King of Han. In the spring of the sixth year, the emperor thought that King Xin of Han was brave and brave. The territory he assigned was close to Gongxian and Luoyang in the north, Wanxian and Yexian in the south, and the important town of Huaiyang was in Shubian. These places were garrisoned by elite troops, so he gave Taiyuan County to South Korea, so that King Xin of Han could resist the barbarians and move the capital to Jinyang.
The King of Han wrote a letter saying: The country is close to the border, and the Huns have invaded many times, but Jinyang is far away from the border, so he requested to make Mayi the capital.
The emperor agreed to his request.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
秋，匈奴冒顿大入围信，信数使使胡求和解。
汉发兵救之，疑信数间使，有二心。
上赐信书责让之曰： 专死不勇，专生不任，寇攻马邑，君王力不足以坚守乎？
安危丰亡之地，此二者朕所以责于君王。
信得书，恐诛，因与匈奴约共攻汉，以马邑降胡，击太原。
七年冬，上自往击破信军铜鞮，斩其将王喜。
信亡走匈奴其将白土人曼丘臣、王黄立赵苗裔赵利为王，复收信散兵，而与信及冒顿谋攻汉。
匈奴使左右贤王将万余骑与王黄等屯广武以南，至晋阳，与汉兵战，汉兵大破之，追至于离石，复破之。
匈奴复聚兵楼烦西北。
汉令车骑击匈奴，常败走，汉乘胜追北。
闻冒顿居代谷，上居晋阳，使人视冒顿，还报曰 可击 。
上遂至平城，上白登。
匈奴骑围上，上乃使人厚遗阏氏。
阏氏说冒顿曰： 今得汉地，犹不能居，且两主不相厄。
translation: 
In the autumn of that year, the Huns leader Mao Dun led a large army to besiege Han Wangxin. Han Wangxin sent envoys many times to seek reconciliation with the Hu people.
The Han Dynasty sent reinforcements to rescue King Xin of Han, and suspected that King Xin of Han had second thoughts in sending envoys to privately sue for peace with the Xiongnu many times.
The emperor sent a letter to reproach Han Wangxin, saying: As a general, focusing on fighting to death is not considered brave, and focusing on survival is not qualified for military command. The enemy is besieging Mayi, can't you hold on to your troops?
Even in a dangerous situation, you must persist in loyalty and integrity. This is what I want to blame you for.
King Xin of Han received the letter and was afraid of being killed, so he agreed with the Xiongnu to jointly attack Mo, gave Mayi to the Hu people, surrendered to the Xiongnu, and sent troops to attack Taiyuan.
In the winter of the seventh year, the emperor personally led his army to defeat Han Wangxin in Tongqian and killed his general Wang Xi.
King Xin of Han fled to the Huns. His generals Manqiuchen and Wang Huang were from Baitu County. They made Tali, a descendant of Shitang from the Six Kingdoms, king. They also collected the remaining soldiers of King Xin of Han and colluded with King Xin and Maodun of Han to attack Han.
The Xiongnu sent the right and left wise kings to lead more than 10,000 cavalry and Wang Huang and others to station in the south of Guangwu. They went to Jinyang to fight the Han soldiers, but were defeated by the Han soldiers. They pursued them as far as Lishi, where they were defeated again by the Mo army.
The Huns gathered their troops northwest of Loufan again.
The Han army also sent chariots and horses to attack the Huns, often defeating them. The Han army took advantage of the victory and pursued them north.
After hearing the news that Mao Dun lived in Daigu, the emperor went to Jinyang in person, sent people to scout Mao Dun, and reported back that it was possible to attack.
The emperor then came to Pingcheng and climbed Baishan Mountain.
Unexpectedly, the emperor was surrounded by Huns cavalry, so the emperor sent people to send many valuable gifts to Ban, the wife of the Huns.
Que persuaded Mao Dun, saying: Now that we have acquired Han land, it is still uninhabitable. Moreover, when the two masters meet, they cannot force each other into an embarrassing situation.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
居七日，胡骑稍稍引去。
天雾，汉使人往来，胡不觉。
护军中尉陈平言上曰： 胡者全兵，请令强弩傅两矢外乡，徐行出围。
入平城，汉救兵亦至，胡骑遂解去，汉亦罢兵归。
信为匈奴将兵往来击边，令王黄等说误陈豨。
十一年春，信复与胡骑入居参合。
汉使柴将军击之，遗信书曰： 陛下宽仁，诸侯虽有叛亡，而后归，辄复故位号，不诛也。
大王所知。
今王以败亡走胡，非有大罪，急自归。
信报曰： 陛下擢仆闾巷，南面称孤，此仆之幸也。
荥阳之事，仆不能死，囚于项籍，此一罪也。
寇攻马邑，仆不能坚守，以城降之，此二罪也。
今为反寇，将兵与将军争一旦之命，此三罪也。
translation: 
After seven days of confrontation, the Hu cavalry retreated a little.
Heavy fog fell from the sky, and the Han army sent people to and fro, but the Hu people were not aware of it.
Chen Ping, the lieutenant of the guard, said to the emperor: The weapons of the Hu people are bows and spears. Please ask the soldiers to add two arrows to each strong crossbow, pointing outwards, and move slowly to highlight the encirclement.
When the emperor ran into Pingcheng, reinforcements from the Han Dynasty also arrived. The Xiongnu cavalry dispersed, and the Han Dynasty also withdrew its troops.
After that, Han Wangxin led the Huns soldiers to and from the border to attack the Han army, and also asked Wang Huang and others to persuade Chen Xi.
In the spring of the eleventh year, Han Wangxin and the Hu cavalry were stationed in Shenhe County.
The Han Dynasty sent General Chai to attack. General Chai first sent a letter to King Han saying: Your Majesty is generous and kind. Although some princes defected, after they surrendered, they immediately restored their previous titles and did not kill them.
You know this.
Now that you have fled to the barbarians because of the defeat, there is no big crime. I hope you can come and surrender as soon as possible.
King Han Xin reported back: Your Majesty promoted me from the alleys to the south and became king. This is my honor.
In the Battle of Rongyang, I did not die in the battle, but became Xiang Ji's prisoner. This was my first crime.
The Hu invaders attacked Mayi, but I failed to hold on, but surrendered the city as a gift to the enemy. This is the second charge.
Now I have become a rebel bandit, leading the army to fight to the death against you. This is the third charge.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
夫种、蠡无一罪，身死亡；仆有三罪，而欲求活，此伍子胥所以偾于吴世也。
今仆亡匿山谷间，旦暮乞貣蛮夷，仆之思归，如痿人不忘起，盲者不忘视，势不可耳。
遂战。
柴将军屠参合，斩信。
信之入匈奴，与太子俱，及至穨当城，生子，因名曰穨当。
韩太子亦生子婴 至孝文时，穨当及婴率其众降。
汉封穨当为弓高侯，婴为襄城侯。
吴、楚反时，弓高侯功冠诸将。
传子至孙，孙无子，国绝。
婴孙以不敬失侯。
穨当孽孙嫣，贵幸，名显当世。
嫣弟说，以校尉击匈奴，封龙额侯。
后坐酎金失侯，复以待诏为横海将军，击破东越，封按道侯。
translation: 
The former doctors Wen Zhong and Fan Li had no sins, but they escaped with death; I had three sins, but I wanted to survive. This was the reason why Wu Zixu offended Fu Chai, did not know how to escape, and finally died in the state of Wu.
Now I have fled to the valley, begging from the barbarians day and night to survive. My desire to return is very strong, just like a paralyzed person who wants to stand up, and a blind man who longs to see the light again, but the situation does not allow me to do so.
So the two sides fought.
General Chai led his troops to loot Shenhe and killed King Xin of Han.
When Han Wangxin fled to the Huns, the prince was with him. When they arrived in the city of Dandang, Han Wangxin gave birth to another son, named Dandang.
Prince Han also gave birth to a boy, named Ying. By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, Dandang and Han Ying led their subordinates to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
In the Han Dynasty, Han Daidang was granted the title of Marquis of Gonggao, and Han Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangcheng.
When Wu and Chu rebelled, Gong Gaohou was the most successful general in quelling the rebellion.
His title was passed on to his son and grandson. Because his grandson had no descendants, he lost his title.
Han Ying's grandson also lost his position due to the crime of disrespect.
The decadent concubine Han Yan was favored and had a great reputation at that time.
Han Yan's younger brother, Han Yue, led troops to attack the Huns as a school captain and was named Longlinghou.
Later, he lost his position because of the crime of insufficient gold. He was granted the title of General Henghai as a waiting edict. He led his army to defeat Shu Yue and was granted the title of Yingdaohou.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
太初中，为游击将军屯五原外列城，还为光禄勋，掘蛊太子宫，为太子所杀。
子兴嗣，坐巫蛊诛。
上曰： 游击将军死事，无论坐者。
乃复封兴弟增为龙额侯。
增少为郎，诸曹、侍中、光禄大夫，昭帝时至前将军，与大将军霍光定策立宣帝，益封千户。
本始二年，五将征匈奴，增将三万骑出云中，斩首百余级，至期而还。
神爵元年，代张安世为大司马车骑将军，领尚书事。
增世贵，幼为忠臣，事三主，重于朝廷。
为人宽和自守，以温颜逊辞承上接下，无所失意，保身固宠，不能有所建明。
五凤二年薨，谥曰安侯。
子宝嗣，亡子，国除。
成帝时，继功臣后，封增兄子岑为龙额侯，薨，子持弓嗣。
王莽败，乃绝。
translation: 
During the Taichu period, he served as a guerrilla general stationed in a city outside Wuyuan. After returning, he was appointed Guang Luxun. He was killed by the prince for digging puppets in the palace of the prince.
His son Han Xing succeeded to the throne and was killed for committing witchcraft.
The emperor said: The guerrilla general died in state affairs, his loyalty is pitiable.
Although Han Xing was executed today for witchcraft, his younger brothers and clan should not be criticized.
So Han Xing's younger brother Han Zeng was granted the title of Long'ehou. Han Zeng was a man when he was young, and served as the official Guanglu of various Cao officials. He also served as a former general during the reign of Emperor Zhao. Because he and the general Huo Guang decided to support Emperor Xuan, he was granted the title of a thousand households in the city.
In the second year of Benshi, five generals attacked the Xiongnu. Han Zeng led 30,000 cavalry from the clouds, killed more than 100 Xiongnu, and returned as scheduled.
In the first year of Shenjue's reign, he replaced Zhang Anshi as the chief carriage and cavalry general, and also served as minister.
Han Zeng has been honored for generations and has been a loyal minister since he was a child. He served three masters successively and made contributions to the court.
He was tolerant and reserved, and he was kind and courteous to both the emperor and his subordinates. He made no mistakes and protected himself by being favored, but he had no achievements.
Wufeng died in the second year of his reign and was granted the title of Marquis of An.
His son Han Bao succeeded him. Han Bao had no sons and lost his kingdom.
When he became emperor, in order to ensure that the heroes would have successors, Han Cen, the son of Han Zeng's brother, was granted the title of Long'ehou. After his death, his son succeeded him with a bow.
After Wang Mang's defeat, he lost his title.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
赞曰：周室既坏，至春秋末，诸侯耗尽，而炎、黄、唐、虞之苗裔尚犹颇有存者。
秦灭六国，而上古遗烈扫地尽矣。
楚、汉之际，豪桀相王，唯魏豹、韩信、田儋兄弟为旧国之后，然皆及身而绝。
横之志节，宾客慕义，犹不能自立，岂非天虖！
韩氏自弓高后贵显，盖周烈近与！
translation: 
Zan said: The Zhou royal family has declined, and by the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, all the princes have been reduced, but there are still many descendants of Emperor Yan, Emperor Huang, Tang Yao, and Yu Shun.
Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, and the ancient sending industry no longer existed.
During the war between Chu and Han, heroes became kings one after another. Only the brothers Wei Bao, Han Wangxin, and Tian Dan were descendants of the Six Kingdoms, but by their generation they were all extinct.
Tian Heng's integrity and the spirit of pursuing morality among the guests could not lead to the establishment of the country. Isn't this God's will?
The Han family began to gain prominence again after being granted the title of Marquis of Gonggao. Perhaps it was because Huangxun, as a descendant of Guqu, was the closest to the Three Expeditions!


