Summary uses chunk [1, 0, 5, 7, 12]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉王败，还至荥阳，豹请视亲病，至国，则绝河津畔汉。
汉王谓郦生曰： 缓颊往说之。
郦生往，豹谢曰： 人生一世间，如白驹过隙。
今汉王嫚侮人，骂詈诸侯群臣如奴耳，非有上下礼节，吾不忍复见也。
汉王遣韩信击豹，遂虏之，传豹诣荥阳，以其地为河东、太原、上党郡。
汉王令豹守荥阳。
楚围之急，周苛曰： 反国之王，难与共守。
遂杀豹。
田儋，狄人也，故齐王田氏之族也。
儋从弟荣，荣弟横，皆豪桀，宗强，能得人。
陈涉使周市略地，北至狄，狄城守。
儋阳为缚其奴，从少年之廷，欲谒杀奴。
见狄令，因击杀令，而召豪吏子弟曰： 诸侯皆反秦自立，齐，古之建国，儋，田氏，当王。
translation: 
The king of Han failed and retreated to Rongyang. Wei Bao asked to go back to visit his mother's condition. After returning to Wei, he blocked the crossing of the Yellow River and betrayed the King of Han.
The king of Han said to Li Sheng: Go and persuade Wei Bao to submit.
Li Sheng arrived in Wei. Wei Bao declined politely and said: Life is very short.
The King of Han insults people at will and scolds the princes and ministers as if they were slaves. He has no courtesy at all. I don't want to bear the anger and go to see him again.
So the King of Han sent Han Xin to attack Wei Bao, captured him, and escorted him to Rongyang, dividing Wei Bao's original territory into three counties: Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang.
The king of Han asked Wei Bao to garrison Rongyang.
At that time, the Chu army was attacking Rongyang, and the situation was urgent. Zhou Ke said: "You cannot defend with those who betray the country."
Then he killed Wei Bao.
Tian Dan, a native of Di County, was a member of the Tian clan, King of Qi during the Six Kingdoms period.
Tian Dan's cousin Tian Rong and Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng were both heroes. Their clans were powerful and respected.
Chen She sent Zhou Shi to capture Wei and went north to Di County, but failed to capture it in the end.
Tian Dan pretended to kill his slave, and brought his young men with him, tied up the slave, and came to see the magistrate of Di County. When he saw the magistrate, he took the opportunity to kill him.
Then he summoned the sons of powerful officials and said: "The princes from all walks of life have proclaimed themselves kings and rebelled against Qin. Qi is a country that was enfeoffed in ancient times. I, Tian Dan, am a member of the Tian family of King Qi, so I should be king."

summary:
summary line 0: The histories of three prominent figures from the Six Kingdoms period: Wei Bao, Tian Dan, and Han Wangxin, detailing their rise, fall, and the fates of their descendants.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏豹，故魏诸公子也。
其兄魏咎，故魏时封为宁陵君，秦灭魏，为庶人。
陈胜之王也，咎往从之。
胜使魏人周市徇魏地，魏地已下，欲立周市为魏王。
市曰： 天下昏乱，忠臣乃见。
今天下共畔秦，其谊必立魏王后乃可。
齐、赵使车各五十乘，立市为王。
市不受，迎魏咎于陈，五反，陈王乃遣立咎为魏王。
章邯已破陈王，进兵击魏王于临济。
魏王使周市请救齐、楚。
齐、楚遣项它、田巴将兵，随市救魏。
章邯遂击破杀周市等军，围临济。
咎为其民约降。
约降定，咎自杀。
魏豹亡走楚。
楚怀王予豹数千人，复徇魏地。
项羽已破秦兵，降章邯，豹下魏二十余城，立为魏王。
豹引精兵从项羽入关。
羽封诸侯，欲有梁地，乃徙豹于河东，都平阳，为西魏王。
汉王还定三秦，渡临晋，豹以国属焉，遂从击楚于彭城。
translation: 
Wei Bao was the son of Wei State during the Six Kingdoms period.
His elder brother Wei Jiu was named Lord Ningling at that time. After Qin destroyed Wei, he was deposed as a commoner.
After Chen Sheng rebelled and proclaimed himself king, Wei Jiu went to serve him.
Chen Sheng sent a Wei man named Zhou Shi to lead his troops to capture the land of Wei. After occupying it, he wanted to make Zhou Shi the king of Wei.
Zhou Shi said: Only when the world is in chaos can the integrity of loyal ministers be seen.
Now that the whole world has betrayed Qin, it stands to reason that the king of Wei should be established after him.
Qi and Tang each sent fifty military chariots to help support Zhou Shi as king.
Zhou Shi refused to accept it and sent people to Chen County to meet Wei Jiu. After five trips, King Chen agreed to make Wei Jiu the king of Wei.
Zhang Han defeated King Chen and raised his troops to Linji to attack King Wei.
The king of Wei sent Zhou Shi to Qi and Chu to request reinforcements.
Qi and Chu sent Xiang Ta and Tian Ba ​​to lead the army together with Zhou Shi to rescue Wei.
Zhang Han defeated them again, killed Zhou Shi and others, and surrounded Linji.
In order to save the people in the city, Wei Jiu agreed to surrender to the Qin army.
After the agreement was made, Wei Jiu committed suicide and died.
Wei Bao fled to Chu.
King Huai of Chu sent thousands of troops to Wei Bao to recapture the land of Wei.
By this time, Xiang Yu had defeated the Qin army and captured Zhang Han. Wei Bao captured more than 20 cities and was made king of Wei by Xiang Yu.
Wei Bao led his army to follow Xiang Yu into the pass.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu divided the feudal lords. He wanted to occupy Daliang, so he moved Wei Bao to Hedong, established his capital in Pingyang, and named him King of the Western Wei Dynasty.
The King of Han almost ordered the Three Qin Dynasties to cross the Yellow River from Linjin. The King of Wei, Wei Bao, surrendered the whole country to the King of Han, and followed the King of Han to attack the Chu army in Pengcheng.

summary:
summary line 1: Wei Bao, son of the Wei state, saw his brother Wei Jiu made king by Chen Sheng after the Qin collapse. Wei Jiu later surrendered to Qin to save his people and committed suicide. Wei Bao fled to Chu, recaptured Wei lands with King Huai's aid, and was made King of Wei by Xiang Yu. After Xiang Yu moved him to Hedong, Wei Bao initially surrendered to the Han king but later betrayed him, blocking the Yellow River. The Han king sent Han Xin to capture him, and Wei Bao was eventually killed at Rongyang by Zhou Ke, who deemed him untrustworthy.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
会汉使郦食其往说王广及相横，与连和。
横然之，乃罢历下守备，纵酒，且遣使与汉平。韩信乃渡平原。袭破齐历下军，因入临菑。
王广、相横以郦生为卖己而亨之。
广东走高密，横走博，守相田光走城阳，将军田既军于胶东。
楚使龙且救齐，齐王与合军高密。
汉将韩信、曹参破杀龙且，虏齐王广。
汉将灌婴追得守相光，至博。
而横闻王死，自立为王，还击婴，婴败横军于赢下。
横亡走梁，归彭越。
越时居梁地，中立，且为汉，且为楚。
韩信已杀龙且，因进兵破杀田既于胶东，灌婴破杀齐将田吸于千乘，遂平齐地。汉灭项籍，汉王立为皇帝，彭越为梁王。
横惧诛，而与其徒属五百余人入海，居隝中。
高帝闻之，以横兄弟本定齐，齐人贤者多附焉，今在海中不收，后恐有乱，乃使使赦横罪而召之。
横谢曰： 臣亨陛下之使郦食其，今闻其弟商为汉将而贤，臣恐惧，不敢奉诏，请为庶人，守海隝中。
使还报，高帝乃诏卫尉郦商曰： 齐王横即至，人马从者敢动摇者致族夷！
乃复使使持节具告以诏意，曰： 横来，大者王，小者乃侯耳；不来，且发兵加诛。
横乃与其客二人乘传诣雒阳。
至尸乡厩置，横谢使者曰： 人臣见天子，当洗沐。
止留。
谓其客曰： 横始与汉王俱南面称孤，今汉王为天子，而横乃为亡虏，北面事之，其愧固已甚矣。
translation: 
It happened that Li Shiqi, the envoy of the King of Han, came to Qi to persuade King Tian Guang of Qi, Prime Minister Tian Heng and the King of Han to jointly attack Chu.
Tian Heng agreed, so Lixia's defense was lifted, and the soldiers drank freely. Just as he was about to send an envoy to negotiate peace with the King of Han, Han Xin had already crossed the plain, defeated the Qi army stationed at Lixia, and entered Linmiao.
Qi King Tian Guang and Prime Minister Tian Heng believed that Li Sheng was conspiring with Han Xin, so they cooked Li Sheng.
Tian Guang fled eastward to Gaomi, Tian Heng fled to Bo County, Prime Minister Tian Guang fled to Chengyang, and General Tian Ji garrisoned in Jiaodong.
The state of Chu sent Long Qie to rescue the state of Qi. King Qi and Long Qie's army met at Gaomi.
The Han generals Han Xin and Cao Shen defeated the Chu army, killed Long Qie, and captured Qi King Tian Guang.
Han general Guan Ying chased and captured Qi's Prime Minister Tian Guang and came to Bo County.
When Tian Heng heard that King Qi was dead, he proclaimed himself king and returned to attack Guan Ying. Guan Ying defeated Tian Heng's army.
Tian Heng fled to Liangdi and joined Pengyue.
At this time, Peng Yue was stationed in Liangdi. He courted both Mo and Chu and remained neutral. After Han Xin killed Long Qie, he then marched into Jiaodong and killed Tian Ji.
Guan Ying defeated Qi general Tian Su and killed Tian Su in Qiancheng, so Han Xin pacified Qi. The Han Dynasty destroyed Xiang Ji, the king of Han established himself as emperor, and Peng Yue was named King of Liang.
Tian Heng was afraid of being killed, so he fled to the sea with more than 500 of his subordinates and lived on the island.
When Mo Gaozu Liu Bang heard the news, he thought that Brother Tian Heng had already pacified Qi, and many wise men of Qi had joined him. Now that he was living on the sea, if he did not recruit him, there might be trouble in the future, so he sent an envoy to pardon Tian Heng's crime and summon him.
Tian Heng declined politely and said: I cooked your Majesty's envoy Li Shiqi. I heard that his younger brother Li Shang is now a general of the Han army and a virtuous man. I am very worried, so I dare not follow the imperial edict. I hope to be an ordinary citizen and live on the island.
The messenger came back and reported to the emperor. Emperor Gaozu summoned Weiwei Li Shang and told him: King Tian Heng of Qi will come, and whoever dares to touch his subordinates will be punished with genocide!
So he sent an envoy with a talisman to tell Tian Heng the order given by Emperor Gaozu to Li Shang, and said: When Tian Heng comes, the older one will be made king and the younger one will be made marquis. If Tian Heng doesn't come, we will send troops to attack him.
Tian Heng then took two retainers to Luoyang in a carriage.
When they arrived at the place where horses were prepared for the post in Xixiang, Tian Heng said to the envoy: As a minister paying homage to the emperor, he should take a bath to purify himself.
So it stopped.
Tian Heng said to his disciples: At first, like the King of Han, I was a man facing south and proclaimed himself king. Now the King of Han has become the emperor. And I have become a prisoner of the subjugated country. It is really shameful to ask the north to surrender to him.

summary:
summary line 2: Tian Dan, a member of the Qi royal clan, declared himself king after killing a county magistrate and expanding Qi's territory. He died in battle against Qin's Zhang Han while aiding Wei. His cousin Tian Rong later made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi king, but conflicts arose with Xiang Yu over allegiances. Tian Rong was killed, and his brother Tian Heng restored Qi, making Tian Rong's son Tian Guang king. Tian Heng ruled Qi for three years until Han Xin's invasion. After a series of battles, Tian Guang was captured, and Tian Heng fled to the sea with 500 followers. Summoned by Emperor Gaozu of Han, Tian Heng committed suicide near Luoyang out of shame, and his followers also died, demonstrating his virtue.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
沛公引兵击阳城，使张良以韩司徒徇韩地，得信，以为韩将，将其兵从入武关。
沛公为汉王，信从入汉中，乃说汉王曰： 项王王诸将，王独居此，迁也。
士卒皆山东人，竦而望归，及其蜂东乡，可以争天下。
汉王还定三秦，乃许王信，先拜为韩太尉，将兵略韩地。
项籍之封诸王皆就国，韩王成以不从无功，不遣之国，更封为穰侯，后又杀之。
闻汉遣信略韩地，乃令故籍游吴时令郑昌为韩王距汉。
汉二年，信略定韩地十余城。
汉王至河南，信急击韩王昌，昌降汉。
汉乃立信为韩王，常将韩兵从。
汉王使信与周苛等守荥阳，楚拔之，信降楚。
已得亡归汉，汉复以为韩王，竟从击破项籍。
五年春，与信剖符，王颖川。
六年春，上以为信壮武，北近巩、雒，南迫宛、叶，东有淮阳，皆天下劲兵处也，乃更以太原郡为韩国，徙信以备胡，都晋阳。
信上书曰： 国被边，匈奴数入，晋阳去塞远，请治马邑。
上许之。
translation: 
Pei Gong led troops to attack Yangcheng and sent Zhang Liang to occupy Korea as a Korean Situ. He found Xin and asked Xin to command the Korean troops and lead the army to follow Pei Gong to Wuguan.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, and Xin followed him into Hanzhong. Xin persuaded the king of Han, saying: King Xiang has divided the generals, but you are stationed here alone. Change your place.
The soldiers following you are all from Shandong, and they are all looking forward to going back. Once the desire to return eastward is strong, you can use this to fight for the world.
The King of Han returned to his army and pacified the San Qin area. He promised to make Xin the king in the future, and first worshiped him as the Taiwei of South Korea, and led his troops to occupy South Korea.
All the princes and kings entrusted by Xiang Ji returned to their respective states. Because King Cheng of Han did not go to war with the army and had no meritorious service, he was not sent to South Korea and was instead granted the title of Marquis of Zhou. Later, he was killed.
Hearing that the King of Han sent a letter to seize the land of Han, he appointed Zheng Chang, the magistrate of Wu County when he was in Wu County, as King of Han to fight against the King of Han's army.
In the second year of Mo, Xinping pacified more than ten cities in Han.
When the King of Han came to Henan, he rushed to attack Han Wangchang, and Han Wangchang surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, established his trust as the king of Han and asked him to always accompany him with Korean soldiers.
The king of Han asked Han Wangxin, Zhou Ke and others to garrison Rongyang. The city was captured by the Chu army, and Han Wangxin surrendered to the Chu army.
Soon he found an opportunity and fled back to Han. The king of Han named him King of Han. Finally, he followed the king of Han and defeated Xiang Ji.
In the spring of the fifth year, the King of Han cut his talisman with him, and he was in Ying!
For the King of Han. In the spring of the sixth year, the emperor thought that King Xin of Han was brave and brave. The territory he assigned was close to Gongxian and Luoyang in the north, Wanxian and Yexian in the south, and the important town of Huaiyang was in Shubian. These places were garrisoned by elite troops, so he gave Taiyuan County to South Korea, so that King Xin of Han could resist the barbarians and move the capital to Jinyang.
The King of Han wrote a letter saying: The country is close to the border, and the Huns have invaded many times, but Jinyang is far away from the border, so he requested to make Mayi the capital.
The emperor agreed to his request.

summary:
summary line 3: Han Wangxin, grandson of the original Han king, was made King of Han by Xiang Liang. He later followed the Han king, was captured by Chu, but escaped and was reinstated. After the Han dynasty was established, Emperor Gaozu moved him to Taiyuan to resist the Xiongnu. Suspected of treason for negotiating with the Xiongnu, Han Wangxin surrendered to them and attacked Han. The emperor personally campaigned against him, and after a siege at Pingcheng, the Xiongnu retreated. Han Wangxin continued raiding until he was killed by General Chai in Shenhe County. His descendants, including Han Dangdang and Han Ying, later surrendered to Han and were granted titles, with some serving as generals and officials through subsequent reigns.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
赞曰：周室既坏，至春秋末，诸侯耗尽，而炎、黄、唐、虞之苗裔尚犹颇有存者。
秦灭六国，而上古遗烈扫地尽矣。
楚、汉之际，豪桀相王，唯魏豹、韩信、田儋兄弟为旧国之后，然皆及身而绝。
横之志节，宾客慕义，犹不能自立，岂非天虖！
韩氏自弓高后贵显，盖周烈近与！
translation: 
Zan said: The Zhou royal family has declined, and by the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, all the princes have been reduced, but there are still many descendants of Emperor Yan, Emperor Huang, Tang Yao, and Yu Shun.
Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, and the ancient sending industry no longer existed.
During the war between Chu and Han, heroes became kings one after another. Only the brothers Wei Bao, Han Wangxin, and Tian Dan were descendants of the Six Kingdoms, but by their generation they were all extinct.
Tian Heng's integrity and the spirit of pursuing morality among the guests could not lead to the establishment of the country. Isn't this God's will?
The Han family began to gain prominence again after being granted the title of Marquis of Gonggao. Perhaps it was because Huangxun, as a descendant of Guqu, was the closest to the Three Expeditions!

summary:
summary line 4: The text concludes with a reflection that while Wei Bao, Tian Dan, and Han Wangxin were descendants of the Six Kingdoms, their lineages ended. Tian Heng's integrity and his followers' loyalty did not lead to a lasting state, suggesting divine will. The Han family's resurgence through the Marquis of Gonggao is noted as possibly linked to ancient lineage.

