Chunk 0: 
original: 
武都郡，武帝元鼎六年置。
莽曰乐平。
户五万一千三百七十六，口二十三万五千五百六十。
县九：武都，东汉水受氐道水，一名沔，过江夏，谓之夏水，入江。天池大泽在县西。
莽曰循虏。
上禄，故道，莽曰善治。
河池。泉街水南至沮入汉，行五百二十里。
莽曰乐平亭。
平乐道，沮，沮水出东狼谷，南至沙羡南入江，过郡五，行四千里，荆州川。
嘉陵道，循成道，下辨道。
莽曰杨德。
陇西郡，秦置。莽曰厌戎。
户五万三千九百六十四，口二十三万六千八百二十四。
有铁官、盐官。
县十一：狄道，白石山在东。
莽曰操虏。
上邽，安故，氐道，《禹贡》养水所出，至武都为汉。
莽曰亭道。
translation: 
Wudu County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Yuanding's reign.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Leping County.
There are 51,376 households with a population of 235,560.
There are nine counties: Wudu County. The Shuhan River receives the water source of the Didao River. One is called Mianshui. It passes through Jiangxia and is called Xia River. It flows into the Yangtze River and Tianchi Daze in the west of the county.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xunlu County.
Shanglu County, Gudao County, was called Shanzhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Hechi County, the spring street water flows southward to Ju County and flows into the Han River, a journey of 520 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Lepingting County.
Pingledao County, Ju County, the Ju River originates from the East Wolf Valley, flows south to the south of Shaxian County, and flows into the Yangtze River. It passes through five counties and travels four thousand miles. It is a river in Jingzhou.
Jialingdao County, Xunchengdao County, and Xiabendao County.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yang Zuomo.
Longxi County was established during the Qin Dynasty and was called Yanrong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
There are 53,964 households with a population of 236,824 people.
There are iron officials and salt officials.
There are eleven counties: Didao County, with Shishan in the east.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Caolu County.
Shangbang County, Angu County, and Didao County are the birthplaces of the Yangshui River in "Yu Gong". When they reach Wudu, they become the Han River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Tingdao County.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
首阳，《禹贡》鸟鼠同穴山在西南，谓水所出，东至船司空入河，过郡四，行千八百七十里，雍州浸。
予道，莽曰德道。
大夏，莽曰顺夏。
羌道，羌水出塞外，南至阴平入白水，过郡三，行六百里。
襄武，莽曰相桓。
临洮，洮水出西羌中，北至枹罕东入河。
《禹贡》西顷山在县西，南部都尉治也。
西。
《禹贡》嶓冢山，西汉所出，南入广汉白水，东南至江州入江，过郡四，行二千七百六十里。
莽曰西治。
金城郡，昭帝始元六年置。
莽曰西海。
户三万八千四百七十，口十四万九千六百四十八。
县十三：允吾，乌亭逆水出参街谷，东至枝阳入湟。
莽曰修远。
浩亹，浩亹水出西塞外，东至允吾入湟水。
莽曰兴武。
令居，涧水出西北塞外，至县西南，入郑伯津。
莽曰罕虏。
枝阳，金城，莽曰金屏。
榆中，枹罕，白石，离水出西塞外，东至枹罕入河。
莽曰顺砾。
河关，积石山在西南羌中。
河水行塞外，东北入塞内，至章武入海，过郡十六，行九千四百里。
破羌，宣帝神爵二年置。
安夷，允街，宣帝神爵二年置。
莽曰修远。
临羌。
西北至塞外，有西王母石室、仙海、盐池。
北则湟水所出，东至允吾入河。
西有须抵池，有弱水、昆仑山祠。
莽曰盐羌。
天水郡，武帝元鼎三年置。
莽曰填戎。
translation: 
Shouyang County, the Wushu Tongxue Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the southwest, and is the birthplace of Wei Shui. It goes eastward to Chuansikong and enters the Yellow River. It passes through four counties and travels 1,870 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Yongzhou.
Yudao County was called Dedao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Daxia County was called Shunxia County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Qiangdao County, the Qiang River flows out of the Great Wall, flows south to Yinping County, and flows into Baishui County. It passes through three counties and travels 600 miles.
Xiangwu County was called Xianghuan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Lintao County, the Tao water flows out of the Western Qiangzhong and flows northward to Paohanshu face into the Yellow River.
Xiqing Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the west of the county, and the southern part is governed by the captain.
West County.
Banzhong Mountain in "Yu Gong" is the birthplace of the Western Han River. It flows southward into Baishui in Guanghan County, and southeastward into Jiangzhou County into the Yangtze River. It passes through four counties and travels 2,760 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xizhi County.
Jincheng County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Zhao's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xihai County.
There are 38,470 households with a population of 149,648.
There are thirteen counties: Yunwu County, Wuting flows out of Shenjie Valley against the current, and flows eastward to Zhiyang County and flows into Huangshui River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiuyuan County.
In Haodie County, the Haodie River flows out of the West Barrier and flows eastward to Yunwu County, where it flows into the Huangshui River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xingwu County.
In Lingju County, the stream flows out outside the northwest wall, to the southwest of the county, and flows into Zheng Boxin.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hanlu County.
Zhiyang County, Jincheng County, was called Jinping County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yuzhong County, Baohan County, and Baishi County, Lishui flows out of the West Barrier and flows eastward to Paohan County into the Yellow River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shunli County.
Heguan County, Jishi Mountain is in the southwest Qiang.
The Yellow River flows outside the Great Wall, flows northeast into the Great Wall, and flows into the sea in Zhangwu County. It passes through 16 counties and travels 9,400 miles.
Poqiang County was established in the second year of Emperor Xuan Shenjue's reign.
Anyi County and Yunjie County were established in the second year of Emperor Xuan Shenjue's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiuyuan County.
Linqiang County.
From the northwest to the outside of the Great Wall, there are the Stone Chamber of the Queen Mother of the West, the Immortal Sea, and the Salt Pond.
To the north is the birthplace of Huangshui River, and to the east it flows into the Yellow River in Yunwu County.
To the west are Xudachi, Weishui and Kunlun Mountain Temple.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yanqiang County.
Tianshui County was established in the third year of Emperor Yuanding's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Fillrong County.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
明帝改曰汉阳。
户六万三百七十，口二十六万一千三百四十八。
县十六：平襄，莽曰平相。
街泉，戎邑道，莽曰填戎亭。
望垣，莽曰望亭。
罕开，绵诸道，阿阳，略阳道，冀，《禹贡》朱圄山在县南梧中聚。
莽曰冀治。
勇士，属国都尉治满福。
莽曰纪德。
成纪，清水，莽曰识睦。
奉捷，陇，豲道，骑都尉治密艾亭。
兰干。
莽曰兰盾。
武威郡，故匈奴休屠王地。
武帝太初四年开。
莽曰张掖。
户万七千五百八十一，口七万六千四百一十九。
县十：姑臧，南山，谷水所出，北至武威入海，行七百九十里。
张掖，武威，休屠泽在东北，古文以为猪野泽。
休屠，莽曰晏然。
都尉治熊水障。
北部都尉治休屠城。
揟次，莽曰播德。
translation: 
Marrow is changed to secretion.
There are 63,700 households with 261,348 people.
There are sixteen counties: Pingxiang County, which was called Pingxiang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Jiequan County, Rongyidao County, and during the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fillingrongting County.
Wangyuan County, Ayang County, was called Wangting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Hankai County, Mianzhu Road, Lueyang County, Guidan Mountain in "Yu Gong" is gathered in Wuzhong in the south of the county.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Ji Zhi County.
In Warrior County, Manfu was governed by the captain of the vassal state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jide County.
Chengji County, Qingshui County, and Shimu County were called Shimu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Fengjie County, Long County, and Lidao County, the Cavalry Commander governed Miaiting.
Langan County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Landun County.
Wuwei County was the place where the Xiongnu slaughtered the king.
It was established in the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zhangye County.
There are 17,581 households with 76,419 people.
There are ten counties: Guzang County. The valley water originates from Nanshan and flows north to Wuwei County into the sea, a journey of 790 miles.
Zhangye County, Wuwei County and Xiutu Ze are in the northeast. Ancient written records consider it to be Zhubi Ze.
Xiutu County was called Yanran County during Wang Mang's reign.
The captain manages the Xiongshui barrier.
The northern captain governed Xiutucheng.
Luoci County was called Bode County during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
鸾乌，扑褱刂，莽曰敷虏。
媪围，苍松，南山，松陕水所出，北至揟次入海。
莽曰射楚。
宣威。
张掖郡，故匈奴昆邪王地，武帝太初元年开。
莽曰设屏。
户二万四千三百五十二，口八万八千七百三十一。
县十：觻得，千金渠西至东涫入泽中。
羌谷水出羌中，东北至居延入海，过郡二，行二千一百里。
莽曰官式。
昭武，莽曰渠武。
删丹，桑钦以为道弱水自此，西至酒泉合黎。
莽曰贯虏。
氐池，莽曰否武。
屋兰，莽曰传武。
日勒，都尉治泽索谷。
莽曰勒治。
骊靬，莽曰揭虏。
番和，农都尉治。
莽曰罗虏。
居延，居延泽在东北，古文以为流沙。
都尉治，莽曰居成。
显美。
酒泉郡，武帝太初元年开。
莽曰辅平。
户万八千一百三十七，口七万六千七百二十六。
县九：禄福，呼蚕水出南羌中，东北至会水入羌谷。
莽曰显德。
表是，莽曰载武。
乐涫，莽曰乐亭。
天阝衣，玉门，莽曰辅平亭。
会水，北部都尉治偃泉障。
translation: 
Luanwu County, Puci County, and Fulu County were called Fulu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuwei County, Cangsong County, Ganshaan River originates from Nanshan, flows north to Luoci County and flows into the sea.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shechu County.
Xuanwei County.
Zhangye County, formerly the place of King Kunxie of the Xiongnu, was established in the first year of Taichu by Emperor Wu.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Sheping County.
There are 24,352 households with 88,731 people.
There are ten counties: Kunde County, Qianjin Canal flows westward to Lejuan and flows into the lake.
The Qiang Valley water flows out of the Qiang and flows northeast to Juyan County into the sea. It passes through two counties and travels 2,100 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Guanshi County.
Zhaowu County was called Quwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Xiedan County, Sangqin thought that the weak water would be dredged from here, and go west to Jiuquan Heli.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Guanlu County.
In Dichi County, Wang Mang's name was Fei Wu.
Wulan County was called Chuanwu during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuele County, where the governor's seat is in Zesuo Valley.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Lezhi.
Lixuan County was called Jielu during Wang Mang's reign.
Fanhe County is governed by Nong Duwei.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Luolu County.
Juyan County, Juyanze is in the northeast. According to ancient records, it is quicksand.
The captain governs. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jucheng County.
Xianmei County.
Jiuquan County was established in the first year of Taichu by Emperor Wu.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Fuping County.
There are 18,137 households with 76,726 people.
There are nine counties: Lufu County, Hucanshui originates from the middle of Southern Qiang, and flows northeast to Huishui into the Qiang Valley.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xiande County.
Biao is a county, which was called Zaiwu County during Wang Mang's reign.
Leju County was called Leting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Tiannong County and Yumen County were called Fupingting during Wang Mang's reign.
In Huishui County, the northern captain governs the Yanquan barrier.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
东部都尉治东部障。
莽曰萧武。
池头，绥弥，乾齐。
西部都尉治西部障。
莽曰测虏。
敦煌郡，武帝后元年分酒泉置。
正西关外有白龙堆沙，有蒲昌海。
莽曰敦德。
户万一千二百，口三万八千三百三十五。
县六：敦煌。中部都尉治步广候官。
杜林以为古瓜州地，生美瓜。
莽曰敦德。
冥安，南籍端水出南羌中，西北入其泽，溉民田。
效穀，渊泉，广至，宜禾都尉治昆仑障。
莽曰广桓。
龙勒。
有阳关、玉门关，皆都尉治。
氐置水出南羌中，东北入泽，溉民田。
安定郡，武帝元鼎三年置。
户四万二千七百二十五，口十四万三千二百九十四。
县二十一：高平，莽曰铺睦。
复累，安俾，抚夷，莽曰抚宁。
朝那，有端旬祠十五所，胡巫祝，又有湫渊祠。
translation: 
The Eastern Duwei was in charge of all the obstacles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xiaowu County.
Chitou County, Suimi County, Qianqi County.
The Western Duwei governs the Western Barrier.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Chalu Se.
Dunhuang County was established from Jiuquan County in the first year after Emperor Wu.
Outside Zhengxi Pass, there is Bailongdu Sand and Puchang Sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Dunde County.
There are 11,200 households and 38,335 people.
There are six counties: Dunhuang County, in the central part of the country, Duweizhi Buguang has a waiting officer.
Du Lin believes that it was the ancient Guazhou land, which produced beautiful melons.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Dunde County.
In Ming'an County, Duanshui originates from the southern Qiangzhong in the south and flows northwest into the lake to irrigate people's fields.
Xiaogu County, Yuanquan County, Guangzhi County, Yihe Duwei governed the Kunlun Barrier.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Guanghuan County.
Longle County.
There are Yangguan and Yumentian, both of which are governed by captains.
Dizhi water originates from the middle of Nanqiang and flows northeast into the lake to irrigate people's fields.
Anding County was established in the third year of Emperor Yuanding's reign.
There are 42,725 households with a population of 143,294 people.
There are twenty-one counties: Gaoping County, which was called Pumu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fulei County, Anbi County, Fuyi County, and during Wang Mang's reign were called Funing County.
In Chaona County, there are fifteen Duanxun temples, offering witchcraft blessings to the barbarians. There is also Qiuyuan Temple.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
泾阳，开头山在西，《禹贡》泾水所出，东南至阳陵入渭，过郡三，行千六十里，雍州川。
临泾，莽曰监泾。
卤，灈水出西。
乌氏，乌水出西，北入河。
都卢山在西。
莽曰乌亭。
阴密，《诗》密人国。
有嚣安亭。
安定，参，主骑都尉治。
三水，属国都尉治。
有盐官。
莽曰广延亭。
阴槃，安武，莽曰安桓。
祖厉，莽曰乡礼。
爰得，眴卷，河水别出为河沟，东至富平北入河。
彭阳，鹑阴，月氏道。
莽曰月顺。
北地郡，秦置。
莽曰威成。
户六万四千四百六十一，口二十一万六百八十八。
县十九。马领，直路，沮水出西，东入洛。灵武，莽曰威成亭。
富平，北部都尉治神泉障。
浑怀都尉治塞外浑怀障。莽曰特武。
translation: 
Jingyang County, with the first mountain in the west, the birthplace of the Jing River in "Yu Gong", flows southeast to Yangling and flows into the Wei River. It is the river of Yongzhou in the three counties of Jin. It travels 1,060 miles.
Linjing County was called Jianjing County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Lu County, sprinkler water flows out from the west.
In Wushi County, Wushui flows out from the west and flows north into the Yellow River.
Dulu Mountain is in the west.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wuting County.
Yinmi County is the country of Miren in "Poetry".
There is Anting County.
Anding County and Shenjin County are governed by the chief cavalry captain.
Sanshui County is governed by the captain of the attached bureau lord.
There is a salt officer.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Guangyanting County.
Yinpan County, Anwu County, was called Anhuan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zuli County was called Xiangli County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yuande County and Shanjuan County, the water from the Yellow River flows out and becomes a ditch, flowing eastward into Fuping County and flowing into the Yellow River.
Pengyang County, Quaiyin County, Yuezhidao County.
Wang Mang said goodbye.
Qing County. Beidi County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Weicheng County.
There are 64,461 households and 210,688 people.
There are nineteen counties: Maling County, Zhilu County, Jushui flows out to the west, and flows into Luoshui to the east: Lingwu County, which was called Weichengting during Wang Mang's time.
In Fuping County, the northern captain governs the Shenquan barrier.
Captain Hunhuai managed the Hunhuai barrier outside the Great Wall: it was called Tewu County during Wang Mang's reign.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
灵州，惠帝四年置。
有河奇苑、号非苑。莽曰令周。
眴衍，方渠，除道，莽曰通道。
五街，莽曰吾街。鹑孤，归德，洛水出北蛮夷中，入河。
有堵苑、白马苑。
回获，略畔道，莽曰延年道。
泥阳，莽曰泥阴。
郁郅，泥水出北蛮夷中。
有牧师菀官。
莽曰功著。
义渠道，莽曰义沟。弋居，有盐官。
大要，廉。
卑移山在西北。
莽曰西河亭。
上郡，秦置，高帝元年更为翟国，七月复故。匈归都尉治塞外匈归障。属并州。
户十万三千六百八十三，口六十万六千六百五十八。
县二十三：肤施，有五龙山、帝、原水、黄帝祠四所。
独乐，有盐民。
阳周。桥山在南，有黄帝冢。
莽曰上陵畴。
木禾，平都，浅水，莽曰广信。
translation: 
Lingzhou County was established in the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign.
Youhe Qiyuan and Hao Feiyuan: it was called Lingzhou County in Wang Mang's time.
Shanyan County, Fangqu County, except Dao County, was called Tongtong County in Tumang.
Wujie County, Wang Mang Shiwujie County: Quaigu County, Guide County, Luoshui flows out from the barbarians in the north and flows into the Yellow River.
There are fallen ridges and day and night ridges.
Huihuo County was shortened to Pandao County, which was called Yannian Dao County during the reign of Wang Ling.
Niyang County was called Niyin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yuzhi County, muddy water flows out from the northern barbarians.
There are priests and officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Gongzhu County.
Yiduang County was called Yigou County during Wang Mang's reign: Yiju County had Yanguan.
Dabian County, Lian County.
Beiyi Mountain is in the northwest.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xihe Pavilion.
Shangjun was established during the Qin Dynasty. In the first year of Emperor Gao's reign, it was renamed Zhai State. Later, it was restored to its original name: Xionggui Duwei governed the Xionggui barrier outside the Great Wall: it belonged to Bingzhou.
There are 103,683 households and 606,658 people.
There are twenty-three counties: Fushi County, which has four places: Wulongshan, Di, Yuanshui, and Huangdi Temple.
In Dule County, there is Yanguan.
In Yangzhou County, Qiaoshan is in the south, and there is the Tomb of the Yellow Emperor.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shannglingzhi.
Muhe County, Pingdu County, Qianshui County, and Guangxin County were called Guangxin County during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
京室，莽曰积粟。
洛都，莽曰卑顺。
白土，圜水出西，东入河。莽曰黄土。
襄洛，莽曰上党亭。
原都，漆垣，莽曰漆墙。
奢延，莽曰奢节。
雕阴，推邪，莽曰排邪。
桢林，莽曰桢幹。
高望，北部都尉治。
莽曰坚甯。
雕阴道，龟兹，属国都尉治。
有盐官。
定阳，高奴，有洧水，可。
莽曰利平。
望松，北部都尉治。
宜都。
莽曰坚宁小邑。
西河郡，武帝元朔四年置。
南部都尉治塞外翁龙、埤是。
莽曰归新。属并州。
户十三万六千三百九十，口六十九万八千八百三十六。
县三十六：富昌，有盐官。
莽曰富成。
驺虞，鹄泽，平定，莽曰阴平亭。美稷，属国都尉治。
中阳，乐街，莽曰截虏。
translation: 
Jingshi County was called Jisu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Luodu County was called Beishun County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Baitu County, Wan water flows out from the west and flows eastward into the Yellow River: it was called Huangshang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Xiangluo County, it was called Shangdang Pavilion during the reign of Wang Mang.
The original capital county was Qiyuan County. It was called Qiqiang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Sheyan County was called Shejie County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Diaoyin County, Tuixie County, was called Paixie County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhenlin County was called Zhenqian County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Gaowang County is governed by the northern captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jianning County.
Diaoyin County and Qiuci County are under the jurisdiction of the state captain.
There is a salt officer.
Dingyang County and Gaonu County have Mishui and Dingyan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Liping County.
Wangsong County is governed by the northern captain.
Yidu County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jianning Xiaoyi.
Xihe County was established in four years of creation and mutual shaping.
The southern captain governed Wenglong and Pishi counties outside the Great Wall.
At that time, Wang Ling was called Guixin County and belonged to Jiaozhou.
There are 136,390 households and 698,836 people.
There are thirty-six counties: Fuchang County, with Yanguan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fucheng County.
Liyu County, Huze County, and Pingding County were called Yinpingting in Wang Mang's time: Meiji County, and were governed by the capital of the country.
Zhongyang County, Lejie County, and during Wang Mang's reign were called Qielu County.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
徒经，莽曰廉耻。
皋狼，大成，莽曰好成。
广田，莽曰广翰。
圜阴，惠帝五年置。
莽曰方阴。益阑，莽曰香阑。
平周，鸿门，有天封苑火井祠，火从地出也。
蔺，宣武，莽曰讨貉。
千章，增山，有道西出眩雷塞，北部都尉治。
圜阳，广衍，武车，莽曰桓车。
虎猛，西部都尉治。
离石，穀罗，武泽在西北。
饶，莽曰饶衍。
方利，莽曰广德。
隰成，莽曰慈平亭。
临水，莽曰监水。
土军，西都，莽曰五原亭。平陆，阴山，莽曰山宁。
觬是，莽曰伏觬。
博陵，莽曰助桓。
盐官。
朔方郡，武帝元朔二年开。
西部都尉治窳浑。莽曰沟搜。
translation: 
Tujing County was called Lianshai County when Shimang was in power.
Gaolang County, Dacheng County, was called Haocheng County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guangtian County was called Guanghan County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yuanyin County was established in the fifth year of Emperor Hui's reign.
During Wang Mang's time, it was called Fangyin County and Yilan County, and during Wang Mang's time, it was called Xianglan County.
In Pingzhou County and Hongmen County, there is Tianfengyuan Huojing Temple, where fire spurts out from the ground.
Lin County, Xuanwu County, was called Tao Raccoon County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Qianzhang County and Zengshan County, there is a road leading to the west, and the northern part is managed by the captain.
Yuanyang County, Guangyan County, Wuche County, and Huanche County were called Huanche County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Humeng County is governed by the Western Captain.
Lishi County, Guluo County, and Wuze are in the northwest.
Rao County was called Rao Yan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fangli County was called Guangde County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xicheng County was called Ciping Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Linshui County was called Jianshui County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Tujun County and Xidu County were called Wuyuanting County during Wang Mang's reign; Pinglu County and Yinshan County were called Shanning County during Wang Mang's reign.
Squid is a county, and it was called Futuo County during Wang Mang's reign.
Boling County was called Zhuhuan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yanguan County.
Shuofang County was established in the second year of Yuan Shuo by Emperor Wu.
The western captain governed Yuhun: during the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Goosou County.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
属并州。户三万四千三百三十八，口十三万六千六百二十八。
县十：三封，武帝元狩三年城。
朔方，金连盐泽、青盐泽皆在南。
莽曰武符。
修都，临河，莽曰监河。
呼遒，窳浑，有道西北出鸡鹿塞。
屠申泽在东。
莽曰极武。
渠搜，中部都尉治。
莽曰沟搜。
沃野，武帝元狩三年城。有盐官。
莽曰绥武。
广牧，东部都尉治。
莽曰盐官。
临戎。
武帝元朔五年城。莽曰推武。
五原郡，秦九原郡，武帝元朔二年更名。
东部都尉治稒阳。
莽曰获降。
属并州。
户三万九千三百二十二，口二十三万一千三百二十八。
县十六：九原，莽曰成平。
固陵，莽曰固调。
五源，莽曰填河亭。
临沃，莽曰振武。
translation: 
Belonging to Bingzhou: there are 34,338 households and 136,628 people.
There are ten counties: Sanfeng County, where Emperor Wu built the city in the third year of Yuanshou.
In Shuofang County, Jinlianyanze and Qingyanze are both in the south.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wufu County.
Xiudu County, Linhe County, was called Jianhe County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Huqiu County and Yuhun County, there is a road to the northwest; there is a chicken-deer barrier.
Tu Shenze was hunched over his face.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jiwu County.
Qusou County is governed by the central captain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Goosou County.
In Wobi County, the city was built in the third year of Emperor Wu's reign: there was Yanguan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Suiwu County.
Guangmu County is governed by the eastern captain.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Yan Guan.
Linrong County.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu Yuanshuo's founding of the city, it was called Tuiwu County.
Wuyuan County was called Jiuyuan County in the Qin Dynasty. It was renamed in the second year of Emperor Wu of Yuan Shuo.
The eastern captain governs Tongyang County.
At the time of Wang Mang, he was called Huojiang County.
Belongs to Bingzhou.
There are 39,322 households and 231,328 people.
There are sixteen counties: Jiuyuan County, which was called Chengping County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guling County was called Gudiao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Wuyuan County, it was called Caihe Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Linwo County was called Zhenwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
文国，莽曰繁聚。
河阴，蒱泽，属国都尉治。
南兴，莽曰南利。
武都，莽曰桓都。
宜梁，曼柏，莽曰延柏。
成宜，中部都尉治原高，西部都尉治田辟。
有盐官。
莽曰艾虏。
稒阳，北出石门障得光禄城，又西北得支就城，又西北得头曼城，又西北得虖河城，又西得宿虏城。
莽曰固阴。
莫黑旦，西安阳，莽曰鄣安。
河目。
云中郡，秦置。
莽曰受降。
属并州。
户三万八千三百三，口十七万三千二百七十。
县十一：云中。莽曰远服。
咸阳，莽曰贲武。
陶林，东部都尉治。
桢陵，缘胡山在西北。
西部都尉治。
莽曰桢陆。
犊和，沙陵，莽曰希恩。
原阳，沙南，北舆，中部都尉治，武泉，莽曰顺泉。
阳寿。
莽曰常得。
定襄郡，高帝置。
莽曰得降。
translation: 
Wenguo County was called Fanju County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Heyin County and Puze County are under the jurisdiction of the state captain.
Nanxing County was called Nanli County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wudu County was called Huandu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yiliang title, Manbai County, was called Yanbai County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Chengyi County, the central captain governs the high area, and the western captain governs the fields.
There is a salt officer.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Ailu County.
In Zhuyang County, Shimenzhao flows out to the north to form Guanglu City, to the northwest to form Zhijiu City, to the northwest to form Touman City, to the northwest to form Kuhe City, and to the west of Yi to form Sulu City.
During Wang Mang's time, it was called Guyin County.
Modan County, Xianyang County, was called Zhang'an County during Wang Mang's reign.
Hemu County.
Yunzhong County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shoujiang County.
Belongs to Bingzhou.
There are 38,303 households with a population of 173,270 people.
There are eleven counties: Yunzhong County, which was called Yuanfu County during Wang Mang's reign.
Xianyang County was called Biwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Taolin County is governed by the eastern captain.
Zhenling County is located in the northwest due to Hu Mountain.
Governed by the Western Captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zhenlu County.
Duhe County, Shaling County, and Xien County were called Xin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuanyang County, Shanan County, Beiyu County are governed by the central captain. Wuquan County was called Shunquan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yangshou County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Changde County.
Dingxiang County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
When Wang Mang ordered him to surrender to the county.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
属并州。
户三万八千五百五十九，口十六万三千一百四十四。
县一十二：成乐，桐过，莽曰椅桐。
都武，莽曰通德。
武进，白渠水出塞外，西至沙陵入河。
西部都尉治。
莽曰伐蛮。
襄阴，武皋，荒干水出塞外，西至沙陵入河。
中部都尉治。
莽曰永武。
骆，莽曰遮要。
定陶，莽曰迎符。
武城，莽曰桓就。
武要，东部都尉治。
莽曰厌胡。
定襄，莽曰著武。
复陆。
莽曰闻武。
雁门郡，秦置。
句注山在阴馆。
莽曰填狄。
属并州。
户七万三千一百三十八，口二十九万三千四百五十四。
县十四：善无，莽曰阴馆。
沃阳，盐泽在东北，有长丞。
西部都尉治。
莽曰敬阳。
繁畤，莽曰当要。
中陵，莽曰遮害。
阴馆，楼烦乡。
translation: 
Belongs to Bingzhou.
There are 38,559 households with a population of 163,144 people.
There are twelve counties: Chengle County, Tongguo County, and during the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yitong County.
Duwu County was called Tongde County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Wujin County, the Baiqu water flows out of the Great Wall and flows westward to Shaling into the Yellow River.
Governed by the Western Captain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Faman County.
In Xiangyin County and Wugao County, the Huanggan River flows out of the Great Wall and flows westward to Shaling into the Yellow River.
The central government is governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yongwu County.
Luo County was called Zheyao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Dingtao County was called Yingfu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wucheng County was called Huanjiu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wuyao County is governed by the eastern captain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yanhu County.
Dingxiang County was called Wu County during Wang Mang's reign.
Fulu County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Wenwu County.
Yanmen County was established during the Qin Dynasty.
The sentence notes that the mountain is in the Yin Pavilion.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Filli County.
Belongs to Bingzhou.
There are 73,138 households with 293,454 people.
There are fourteen counties: Shanwu County, which was called Yinguan County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Woyang County, Yanze is in the northeast and there is Changcheng.
Governed by the Western Captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jingyang County.
Fanzhi County was called Dangyao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhongling County was called Zhaha County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yinguan County, there is Loufan Township.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
景帝后三年置。
累头山，治水所出，东至泉州入海，过郡六，行千一百里。
莽曰富代。
楼烦，有盐官。
武州，莽曰桓州，汪陶，剧阳，莽曰善阳。
崞，莽曰崞张。
平城，东部都尉治。
莽曰平顺。
埒，莽曰填狄亭。
马邑，莽曰章昭。
强阴。
诸闻泽在东北。
莽曰伏阴。
代郡，秦置。
莽曰厌狄。
有五原关、常山关。
属幽州。
户五万六千七百七十一，口二十七万八千七百五十四。
县十八：桑乾，莽曰安德。
道人，莽曰道仁。
当城，高柳，西部都尉治。
马城，东部都尉治。
班氏，秦地图书班氏。
莽曰班副。
延陵，狋氏，莽曰狋聚。
且如，于延水出塞外，东至宁入沽。
中部都尉治。
translation: 
It was established three years after Emperor Jing.
Flood control originates from Leitou Mountain, flows eastward to Quanzhou and flows into the sea, passing through six counties and covering a distance of 1,100 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Fudai County.
In Loufan County, there is a salt officer.
Wuzhou County was called Huanzhou County during the reign of Wang Mang. Watao County, Juyang County, was called Shanyang County during Wang Mang's reign.
Guoxian County was called Guozhang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pingcheng County is governed by the eastern captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pingshun County.
In Qixian County, it was called Filling Diting during Wang Mang's reign.
Mayi County was called Zhangzhao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Qiangyin County.
Zhu Wenze is in the northeast.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fuyin County.
Daijun was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yandi County.
There are Wuyuan Pass and Changshan Pass.
Belongs to Youzhou.
There are 56,771 households with a population of 278,754 people.
There are eighteen counties: Sangqian County, which was called Ande County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Daoren County was called Daoren County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Dangcheng County, Gaoliu County, is governed by the Western Captain.
Macheng County is governed by the eastern captain.
Banshi County is written on the map of Qin Dynasty as Banshi.
When Wang Mang was in office, he called him the class deputy.
Yanling County, Biaoshi County, was called Biaoju County during the reign of Wang Mang.
For example, in counties, the Yuyan River originates outside the Great Wall and flows eastward to Ning County and flows into the Gu River.
The central government is governed by the captain.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
平邑，莽曰平胡。
阳原，东安阳，莽曰竟安。
参合，平舒，祁夷水北至桑乾入沽。
莽曰平葆。
代，莽曰厌狄亭。
灵丘。滱河东至文安入大河，过郡五，行九百四十里。
并州川。
广昌，涞水东南至容城入河，过郡三，行五百里，并州浸。
莽曰广屏。
卤城，虖池河东至参户入虖池别，过郡九，行千三百四十里，并州川。
从河东至文安入海，过郡六，行千三百七十里。
莽曰鲁盾。
上谷郡，秦置。
莽曰朔调。
属幽州。
户三万六千八，口十一万七千七百六十二。
县十五：沮阳，莽曰沮阴。
泉上，莽曰塞泉。
潘，莽曰树武。
军都，温馀水东至路，南入沽。
居庸，有关。
雊瞀，夷舆，莽曰朔调亭。
translation: 
Pingyi County was called Huhu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yangyuan County, Shu Anyang County, was called Jing'an County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Shenhe County and Pingshu County, the Qiyi River flows northward to Sanggan and flows into the Gu River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pingbao County.
In Dai County, it was called Yandi Pavilion during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Lingqiu County, the Dianhe River flows eastward to Wen'an County and flows into the river. It passes through five counties and travels 940 miles.
It is a river in Bingzhou.
In Guangchang County, Laishui flows southeast to Rongcheng and flows into the Yellow River. It passes through three counties and travels 500 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Bingzhou.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Guangping County.
Lucheng County. The Kuchi River flows eastward to Shenhu and flows into the Kuchi tributary. It passes through nine counties and travels 1,340 miles. It is a river in Bingzhou.
From Hedong to Wen'an County, it flows into the sea and passes through six counties, covering a distance of 1,370 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Ludun County.
Shanggu County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shuotiao County.
Belongs to Youzhou.
There are 36,08 households with 117,762 people.
There are fifteen counties: Juyang County, which was called Juyin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Quanshang County was called Saiquan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pan County was called Shuwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Jundu County, Wenyushui flows eastward to Luxian County and flows southward into Gushui.
Juyong County, Guankou.
Yanxian County, Yiyu County, was called Shuotiaoting during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
宁，西部都尉治。
莽曰博康。
昌平，莽曰长昌。
广宁，莽曰广康。
涿鹿，莽曰抪陆。
且居，阳乐水出东，南入沽。
莽曰久居。
茹，莽曰穀武。
女祁，东部都尉治。
莽曰祁。
下落。
莽曰下忠。
渔阳郡，秦置。
莽曰通路。
属幽州。
户六万八千八百二，口二十六万四千一百一十六。
县十二：渔阳，沽水出塞外。东南至泉州入海，行七百五十里。
有铁官。
莽曰得渔。
狐奴，莽曰举符。
路，莽曰通路亭。
雍奴，泉州，有盐官。
莽曰泉调。
平谷，安乐，厗奚，莽曰敦德。
犷平，莽曰平犷。
要阳，都尉治。
莽曰要术。
白檀，洫水出北蛮夷。
滑盐。
莽曰匡德。
右北平郡，秦置。
莽曰北顺。
属幽州。
translation: 
Ning County is governed by the western captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Bokang County.
Changping County was called Changchang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guangning County was called Guangkang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhuolu County was called Bilu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Qieju County, Yangle water flows out to the east and Gu water flows into the south.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jiuju County.
Ru County was called Guwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Nuqi County is governed by the captain of Shubu.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qixian County.
Whereabouts County.
Wang Mang called out the cup title.
Yuyang County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Tongtong County.
Belongs to Youzhou.
There are 68,802 households with 264,116 people.
There are twelve counties: Yuyang County. Zhanshui flows out of the Great Wall and flows southeast to Quanzhou into the sea, a journey of 750 miles.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yu County.
Hunu County was called Jufu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Lu County was called Tongtong Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Yongnu County and Quanzhou County have Yanguan.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Quantiao County.
Pinggu County, Anle County, Shexi County, and Dunde County were called Dunde County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Ping Ping County was called Ping Ping County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yaoyang County is governed by the captain.
Wang Mang was in charge of Shu County.
In Baitan County, there are barbarians in the river.
Huayan County.
Wang Ling was called Kuanghan.
You Beiping County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Beishun County.
Belongs to Youzhou.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
户六万六千六百八十九，口三十二万七百八十。
县十六：平刚，无终，故无终子国。
浭水西至雍奴入海，过郡二，行六百五十里。
石成，延陵，莽曰铺武。
俊靡，灅水南至无终东入庚。
莽曰俊麻。
薋，都尉治。
莽曰裒睦。
徐无，莽曰北顺亭。
字，榆水出东。
土根，白狼，莽曰伏狄。
夕阳，有铁官。
莽曰夕阴。
昌城，莽曰淑武。
骊成，大揭石山在县西南。
莽曰揭石。
广成，莽曰平虏。
聚阳，莽曰笃睦。平明。
莽曰平阳。
辽西郡，秦置。有小水四十八，并行三千四十六里。
属幽州。
户七万二千六百五十四，口三十五万二千三百二十五。
县十四：且虑，有高庙。莽曰鉏虑。
海阳，龙鲜水东入封大水。
封大水，缓虚水皆南入海。
有盐官。
translation: 
There are 66,689 households with 320,780 people.
There are sixteen counties: Pinggang County and Wuzhong County, which were the former Wuzhongzi Kingdom.
The water flows westward to Yongnu County and flows into the sea. It passes through two counties and travels 650 miles.
Shicheng County, Tinling County, and Puwu County were called Puwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Junmi County, the overflowing water flows southward to Wu Zhongdong and flows into the Geng River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Junma County.
The old county was governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Aimu County.
Xu Wu County was called Beishunting during Wang Mang's reign.
Zi County, Yushui flows out from the east.
Shangyin County, Bailang County, and Fudi County were called Fudi County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Xiyang County, there is an iron officer.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xiyin County.
Changcheng County, during the reign of Wang Mang. Shuwu County.
In Licheng County, Dajieshi Mountain is in the southwest of the county.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jieshi County.
Guangcheng County was called Pinglu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Juyang County was called Dumu County and Pingming County during the Gongmang period.
It was called Pingyang County during Wang Mang's reign.
Liaoxi County was established during the Qin Dynasty: there were 48 small rivers running in parallel for 3,046 miles.
Belongs to Youzhou.
There are 72,654 households with 352,325 people.
There are fourteen counties: Qielu County, with Gaomiao: it was called Zulu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Haiyang County, Longxianshui flows eastward into Fengdashui.
Both Feng Dashui and Xuxu Water flow southward into the sea.
There is a salt officer.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
新安平。夷水东入塞外。
柳城，马首山在西南。
参柳水北入海。
西部都尉治。
令支，有孤竹城。
莽曰令氏亭。
肥如，玄水东入濡水。
濡水南入海阳。
又有卢水，南入玄。
莽曰肥而。
宾从，莽曰勉武。
交黎，渝水首受塞外，南入海。
东部都尉治。
莽曰禽虏。
阳乐，狐苏，唐就水至徒河入海。
徒河，莽曰河福。
文成，莽曰言虏。
临渝，渝水首受白狼，东入塞外，又有侯水，北入渝。
莽曰冯德。
絫。
下官水南入海。
又有揭石水、宾水，皆南入官。
莽曰选武。
辽东郡，秦置。
属幽州。
户五万五千九百七十二，口二十七万二千五百三十九。
县十八：襄平。有牧师官。
莽曰昌平。
新昌，无虑，西部都尉治。
translation: 
In Xin'anping County, the Yi River flows eastward outside the Great Wall.
Liucheng County, Mashou Mountain is in the southwest.
The ginseng water flows northward into the sea.
Governed by the Western Captain.
In Lingzhi County, there is Guzhu City.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Ling's Pavilion.
As fat as the county, Xuanshui flows eastward into Rushui.
Rushui flows southward into Haiyangshui.
There is also Lu River, which flows southward into Xuan River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Feier County.
Bincong County was called Mianwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Jiaoli County, the Chongqing River first receives water from outside the Great Wall and flows southward into the sea.
Governed by the Eastern Captain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Qinlu County.
Yangle County, Husu County, Tangjiu River flows into the sea.
Tuhe County was called Hefu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wencheng County was called Yanlu County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Linyu County, Chongqing River first receives the water source of Bailangshui and flows eastward beyond the Great Wall. There is also the Hou River, which flows northward into the Chongqing River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Fengde County.
Ying County.
Guanshui flows southward into the sea of ​​​​people.
There are also Jieshi River and Bin River, both flowing southward into Guan River.
When Wang Mang was in power, he called Xuan Wu Shu.
Liaodong County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
Belongs to Youzhou.
There are 55,972 households with 272,539 people.
There are eighteen counties: Xiangping County, with pastoral officials.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Changping County.
Xinchang County and Wulu County are governed by the Western Captain.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
望平，大辽水出塞外，南至安市入海。行千二百五十里。
莽曰长说。
房，候城，中部都尉治。
辽队，莽曰顺睦。
辽阳，大梁水西南至辽阳入辽。
莽曰辽阴。
险渎，居就，室伪山，室伪水所出，北至襄平入梁也。
高显，安市，武次，东部都尉治。
莽曰桓次。
平郭，有铁官、盐官。
西安平，莽曰北安平。
文，莽曰文亭。
番汗，沛，水出塞外，西南入海。
沓氏。
玄菟郡，武帝元封四年开。
高句骊，莽曰下句骊。
属幽州。户四万五千六。口二十二万一千八百四十五。
县三：高句骊，辽山，辽水所出，西南至辽队入大辽水。
又有南苏水，西北经塞外。
上殷台，莽曰下殷。
西盖马。
马訾水西北入盐难水，西南至西安平入海，过郡二，行二千一百里。
莽曰玄菟亭。
乐浪郡，武帝元封三年开。
莽曰乐鲜。属幽州。
translation: 
In Wangping County, the Daliao River flows out of the Great Wall and flows south to Anshi County into the sea, a journey of 1,250 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, he called Changshuo County.
Fang County and Houcheng County are governed by the central captain.
Liao team county was called Shunmu county during Wang Mang's reign.
In Liaoyang County, Daliang River flows southwest to Liaoyang County and flows into Liao River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Liaoyin County.
In Xiandu County, Juxiang, Shifushi River originates from Shifushi Mountain and flows north to Xiangping into Liangshui River.
Gaoxian County, Anshi County, Wuci County are governed by the eastern captaincy.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huanci County.
Pingguo County has Tieguan and Yanguan.
Xi'an Ping County was called Bei'an Ping County during Wang Mang's reign.
Wen County was called Wenting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Fanzhi County, Peishui flows out of the Great Wall and flows southwest into the sea.
Dashi County.
Xuantu County was established in the fourth year of Yuanfeng period by Emperor Wu.
Gao Gouli was called Xia Gouli during Wang Mang's reign.
Belongs to Youzhou: there are 45,006 households and 221,845 people.
There are three counties: Gaoguli County, Liao County originates from Chanshan, and flows southwest to Liao County.
There is also Zhizhi River, flowing northwest through the outside of the Great Wall.
Shang Yintai County was called Xia Yin County when the land was wild.
Western Geima County.
Mazi water flows northwest into Yannan water, and flows southwest to Xi'an Ping County into the sea. It passes through two counties, and the journey is: one thousand and one hundred miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xuan Tu Pavilion.
Lelang County was established in the second year of Yuanfeng by Emperor Wu.
During Wang Mang's time, it was called Lexian County and belonged to Youzhou.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
户六万二千八百一十二，口四十万六千七百四十八。
有云鄣。县二十五：朝鲜，讑邯，浿水，水西至增地入海。
莽曰乐鲜亭。
含资，带水西至带方入海。
黏蝉，遂成，增地，莽曰增土。
带方，驷望，海冥，莽曰海桓，列口，长岑，屯有，昭明，高部都尉治。
镂方，提奚，浑弥，吞列，分黎山，列水所出。西至黏蝉入海，行八百二十里。
东暆，不耐，东部都尉治。
蚕台，华丽，邪头昧，前莫，夫租。
南海郡，秦置。
秦败，尉佗王此地。
武帝元鼎六年开。
属交州。
户万九千六百一十三，口九万四千二百五十三。
有圃羞官。
县六：番禺，尉佗都。
有盐官。
博罗，中宿，有洭浦官。
龙川，四公，揭阳，莽曰南海亭。
郁林郡，故秦桂林郡，属尉佗。
武帝元鼎六年开。
translation: 
There are 62,812 households with a population of 46,748.
There are twenty-five counties in Yunzhang: Chaoshan County, Xinhan County, and Huoshui County. The water flows westward to Zengdi County and flows into the sea.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Lexianting County.
Containing Zi County, the water flows westward to Daifang County and flows into the sea.
Nianchan County became a county, Zengdi County, and was called Zengtu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Daifang County, Siwang County, Haiming County, and during Wang Mang's time were called Haihuan County: Liekou County, Changcen County, Tunyou County, Zhaoming County, and were governed by the southern captain.
Lufang County, Tixi County, Hunmi County, and Tunlie County, the Lieshui River originates from Fenli Mountain, flows westward to Nianchan County, and flows into the sea, with a journey of eight hundred and ten miles.
Dongton County, Buer County, was governed by the captain of Shubu.
Cantai County, Huali County, Xietoumei County, Qianmo County, and Fuzhu County.
Nanhai County was established in the Qin Dynasty.
After the defeat of Qin, Wei Tuo became king here.
It was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign.
Belongs to Jiaozhou.
There are 19,613 households with 94,253 people.
You are a shameful official.
There are six counties: Panyu County, the capital of King Wei Tuo.
There is a salt officer.
Boluo County and Zhongsu County have Canpu officials.
Longchuan County, Sihui County, Jieyang County. During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Nanhai Pavilion.
Yulin County, the former Guilin County of Qin State, belonged to Wei Tuo.
It was established and renamed in the sixth year of Yuanding reign of Emperor Wu.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
更名，有小溪川水七，并行三千一百一十里。
莽曰郁平。属交州。
户万二千四百一十五，口七万一千一百六十二。
县十二：布山，安广，阿林，广郁，郁水首受夜郎豚水，东至四会入海，过郡四，行四千三十里。
中留，桂林，潭中，莽曰中潭。
临尘，朱涯水入领方。
又有斤南水。
又有侵离水，行七百里。
莽曰监尘。
定周，周水首受无敛，东入潭，行七百九十里。
增食，驩水首受牂柯东界，入朱涯水，行五百七十里。
领方，斤南水入郁。
又有墧水。
都尉治。
雍鸡。
有关。
苍梧郡，武帝元鼎六年开。
莽曰新广，属交州。
有离水关。
户二万四千三百七十九，口十四万六千一百六十。
县十：广信，莽曰广信亭。
谢沐，有关。
高要，有盐官。
封阳，临贺，莽曰大贺。
端溪，冯乘，富川，荔浦，有荔平关。
猛陵。
龙山，合水所出，南至布山入海。
莽曰猛陆。
translation: 
There are seven creeks and rivers running parallel for 3110 miles.
In Wang Mang's time, it was called Yuping County, and it was Jianzhou.
There are 12,415 households with 71,162 people.
There are twelve counties: Bushan County, Anguang County, Alin County and Guangyu County. Yushui first receives water from Yelang Dolphin Water, flows eastward to Sihui County and flows into the sea, passing through four counties and traveling 4,030 miles.
Zhongliu County, Guilin County, and Tanzhong County were called Zhongtan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Linchen County, Zhuya water flows into Lingfang.
There is also Jinnan water.
There is also invasion of water, and the journey is hundreds of miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jianchen County.
In Dingzhou County, Zhoushui first receives water from Wulian and flows eastward into the pool. The journey is a hundred and ninety miles.
In Zengshi County, Jishui first received water from Yangkeshujie and flowed into Zhuyashui, a journey of 570 miles.
In Lingfang County, Jinnan water flows into Yushui.
There is also water.
The captain governs.
Yongji County.
related.
Cangwu County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xinguang County. Belongs to Jiaozhou.
There is Lishuiguan.
There are 24,379 households with a population of 146,160 people.
There are ten counties: Guangxin County, which was called Guangxinting during Wang Mang's reign.
Xiemu County, related.
In Gaoyao County, there is Yanguan.
Fengyang County, Linhe County, was called Dahe County during Wang Mang's reign.
Duanxi County, Fengcheng County, Fuchuan County, and Lipu County have Liping Pass.
Mengling County.
Heshui originates from Longshan and flows south to Bushan into the sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Menglu County.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
交趾郡，武帝元鼎六年开，属交州。
户九万二千四百四十，口七十四万六千二百三十七。
县十：羸阝娄，有羞官。
安定，苟屚，麋泠，都尉治。
曲易，此带，稽徐，西于，龙编，朱■。
合浦郡，武帝元鼎六年开，莽曰桓合。
属交州。
户万五千三百九十八，口七万八千九百八十。
县五：徐闻，高凉，合浦。有关。
莽曰桓亭。
临允，牢水北入高要入郁，过郡三，行五百三十里。
莽曰大允。
朱卢，都尉治。
九真郡，武帝元鼎六年开。
有小水五十二，并行八千五百六十里。
户三万五千七百四十三，口十六万六千一十三。
有界关。
县七：胥浦，莽曰驩成。
居风，都庞，馀发，咸驩，无切，都尉治。
无编。
莽曰九真亭。
日南郡，故秦象郡，武帝元鼎六年开，更名。
有小水十六，并行三千一百八十里。
属交州。
户万五千四百六十，口六万九千四百八十五。
translation: 
Jiaozhi County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Yuanding reign and belonged to Jiaozhou.
There are 92,440 households with 746,237 people.
There are ten counties: Leixian County, where there are shameful officials.
Anding County, Gouchi County, and Luling County are governed by the captain.
Quyi County, Beidai County, Jixu County, Xiyu County, Longbian County and Zhuzai County.
Hepu County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Yuanding's reign. During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Huanhe County.
Belongs to Jiaozhou.
There are 15,398 households with a population of 78,980.
There are five counties: Xuwen County, Gaoliang County, and Hepu County, related.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huanting County.
In Linyun County, Laoshui flows northward into Gaoyao and then into Yushui, passing through three counties and covering a distance of 530 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Dayun County.
Julu County. The captain governs.
Jiuzhen County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign.
There are fifty-two small rivers running parallel for 8,560 miles.
There are 35,743 households with 166,013 people.
There are boundaries.
There are seven counties: Xupu County, which was called Qucheng County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Jufeng County, Dupang County, Yufa County, Xianji County, and Wuqie County are governed by Duwei.
No county.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Li Zhenhuang.
Rinan County, the former Xiang County of the Qin State, was established and renamed in the sixth year of Yuanding by Emperor Wu.
There are sixteen rivers running parallel for 3,180 miles.
Belongs to Jiaozhou.
There are 15,460 households with 69,485 people.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
县五：朱吾，比景，卢容，西卷，水入海，有竹，可为杖。
莽曰日南亭。
象林。
赵国，故秦邯郸郡，高帝四年为赵国。景帝三年复为邯郸郡，五年复故。
莽曰桓亭。
属冀州。
户八万四千二百二，口三十四万九千九百五十二。
县四：邯郸。堵山，牛首水所出，东入白渠。
赵敬侯自中矣徙此。
易阳，柏人，莽曰寿仁。
襄国。
故刑国。
西山，渠水所出，东北至任入浸。
又有蓼水、冯水，皆东至朝平入湡。
广平国，武帝征和二年置为平干国，宣帝五凤二年复故。
莽曰富昌。
属冀州。
户二万七千九百八十四，口十九万八千五百五十八。
县十六：广平，张，朝平，南和，列葭水东入氵虒。
列人，莽曰列治。
斥章，任，曲周，武帝建元四年置。
translation: 
There are five counties: Zhuwu County, Bijing County, Lurong County, and Xijuan County. The river flows into the sea and there are bamboos that can be used as crutches.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Rinan Pavilion.
Xianglin County.
The State of Zhao was formerly the Handan County of the State of Qin. It became the State of Tang in the fourth year of Emperor Gao's reign. It was restored to Handan County in the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, and returned to its original name in the fifth year of Emperor Jing's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Huanting.
Belongs to Jizhou.
There are 84,202 households with 349,952 people.
There are four counties: Handan County. Niushui originates from Dushan and flows eastward into Baiqu.
Zhao Jinghou moved from Zhongmu to Zaoyu.
Yiyang County, Bairen County, was called Shouren County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiangguo County.
It was the former Xing State.
The canal water originates from Xishan Mountain and flows northeast to Ren County into the irrigation canal.
There are also Liao River and Feng River, both of which flow toward Shu into Chaoping County and into Guishui.
Guangping State was established as Pinggan State in the second year of Zhenghe by Emperor Wu, and its original name was restored in the second year of Wufeng by Emperor Xuan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fuchang County.
Belongs to Jizhou.
There are 227,984 households with a population of 198,558 people.
There are sixteen counties: Guangping County, Zhang County, Chaoping County, and Nanhe County. The Liejia River flows eastward and sprinkles water.
It was listed as a county and was called Liezhi County during Wang Mang's reign.
Zhang County, Ren County, and Quzhou County were established in the fourth year of Jianyuan by Emperor Wu.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
莽曰直周。
南曲，曲梁，侯国。
莽曰直梁。
广乡，平利，平乡，阳台，侯国。
广年，莽曰富昌。
城乡。
真定国，武帝元鼎四年置。
属冀州。
户三万七千一百二十六，口十七万八千六百一十六。
县四，真定，故东垣，高帝十一年更名。
莽曰思治。
稾城，莽曰稾实。
肥累，胡肥子国，绵曼。
斯洨水首受太白渠，东至鄡入河。
莽曰绵延。
中山国，高帝郡，景帝三年为国。
莽曰常山，属冀州。
户十六万八百七十三，口六十六万八千八十。
县十四：卢奴，北平，徐水东至高阳入博。
又有卢水，亦至高阳入河。
有铁官。
莽曰善和。
北新成，桑钦言易水出西北，东入滱，莽曰朔平，唐，尧山在南。
莽曰和亲。
深泽，莽曰翼和。
translation: 
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zhizhou County.
Nanqu County and Quliang County are prince states.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called the Straight Chisel Crocodile.
Guangxiang County, Pingli County, Pingxiang County and Yangtang County are the prince states.
Guangnian County was called Fuchang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Urban and rural counties.
The Zhending Kingdom was established in the fourth year of Emperor Yuanding's reign.
Belongs to Jizhou.
There are 37,126 households with 178,616 people.
There are four counties: Zhending County, the original Shuyuan County, was renamed one year after Gao Dibu.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Sizhi County.
Gaocheng County was called Gaoshi County during the Gongmang period.
Feihui County was the former Feizi Country. Mianman County.
Siwenshui first receives water from Taibai Canal and flows eastward to Dian'e into Donghui.
Wang Ling called Zhong Zhidi.
Zhongshan Kingdom, a county during the reign of Emperor Gao, became a state in the third year of Emperor Jing.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Changshan Kingdom. Belongs to Jizhou.
There are 660,873 households with 668,080 people.
There are fourteen counties: Lunu County, Beiping County, Xushui flows eastward to Gaoyang and flows into Boshui.
There is also Lu River, which also reaches Gaoyang and flows into the Yellow River.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shanhe County.
In Beixincheng County, Sanqin said that Yishui flows out from the northwest and flows eastward into Dianshui. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shuoping County. In Tang County, Yao Mountain is in the south.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Heqin County.
Shenwei County was called Yihe County during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
苦陉，莽曰北陉。
安国，莽曰兴睦。
曲逆，蒲阳山，蒲水所出，东入濡，又有苏水，亦东入濡，莽曰顺平。
望都，博水东至高阳入河。
莽曰顺调。
新市，新处，毋极，陆成，安险。
莽曰宁险。
信都国，景帝二年为广川国，宣帝甘露三年复故。
莽曰新博。
属冀州。
户六万五千五百五十六，口万三十万四千三百八十四。
县十七：信都，王都。
故章河、故虖池皆在北，东入海。
《禹贡》绛水亦入海。
莽曰新博亭。
历，莽曰历宁。
扶柳，辟阳，莽曰乐信。
南宫，莽曰序下。
下博，莽曰闰博。
武邑，莽曰顺桓。
观津，莽曰朔定亭。
高提，广川，乐乡，侯国。
莽曰乐丘。
translation: 
Kuxing County was called Beixing County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Anguo County was called Xingmu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Quni County, Puyang Mountain is the birthplace of Pushui River, which flows eastward into Rushui River. There is also Su River, which also flows eastward into Ru River. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shunping County.
In Wangdu County, Boshui flows eastward to Gaoyang and flows into the Yellow River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shundiao County.
Xinshi County, Xinchu County, Wuji County, Lucheng County, and Anxian County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Ningxian County.
Xindu Kingdom became Guangchuan Kingdom in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, and its original name was restored in the third year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xinbo.
Belongs to Jizhou.
There are 65,556 households with a population of 34,384 people.
There are seventeen counties: Xindu County, which is the capital of princes and kings.
Yuanzhang River and Yuankuchi are both in the north, flowing eastward into the sea.
The crimson water in "Yu Gong" also flows into the sea.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xinboting.
Li County was called Lining County during Wang Mang's reign.
Fuliu County, Piyang County, and Lexin County were called during the reign of Wang Mang.
Nangong County was called Xuxia County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiabo County was called Runbo County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wuyi County was called Shunhuan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guanjin County was called Shuoding Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Gaodi County, Guangchuan County, and Lexiang County are princely states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Leqiu County.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
平堤，侯国。
桃，莽曰桓分。
西梁，侯国。
昌成，侯国。
东昌，侯国。莽曰田昌。
脩。
莽曰脩治。
河间国，故赵，文帝二年别为国。
莽曰朔定。
户四万五千四十三，口十八万七千六百六十二。
县四：乐成，虖池别水首受虖池河，东至东光入虖池河。
莽曰陆信。
候井，武隧，莽曰桓隧。
弓高。
虖池别河首受虖池河，东至平舒入海。
莽曰乐成。
广阳国。高帝燕国，昭帝元凤元年为广阳郡，宣帝本始元年更为国。
莽曰广有，户二万七百四十，口七万六百五十八。
县四：蓟，故燕国，召公所封。
莽曰伐戎。
方城。广阳，阴乡。
莽曰阴顺。
甾川国，故齐，文帝十八年别为国。
后并北海。
translation: 
Pingdi County is a Hou country.
Taoxian County was called Huanfen County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiliang County is a country.
Changcheng County is a Hou country.
Shuchang County is a Hou Kingdom. It was called Tianchang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Repair the county.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiuzhi County.
Hejian State, the original Zhao State, was established as a vassal state in the second year of Emperor Wen's reign.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Shuoding.
There are 45,043 households with a population of 187,662 people.
There are four counties: Lecheng County. Kuchibie Water first receives water from the Kuchi River and flows eastward to Shuguang County into the Kuchi River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Luxin County.
Houjing County, Wutun County, and Huantun County were called Huantun County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Gonggao County.
The Kuchibie River first receives water from the Mochi River and flows eastward to Ganshu County into the sea.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Lecheng County.
Guangyang State was the State of Yan during the reign of Emperor Gao. It became Guangyang County in the first year of Yuanfeng of Emperor Zhao, and was changed to a country in the first year of Emperor Xuan's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Guangyou State. There are: 20,740 households with 70,658 persons.
There are four counties: Ji County, the original Yan Kingdom, the fiefdom of Zhao Gong.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Farong County.
Fangcheng County, Guangyang County, Yinxiang County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yinshun County.
The State of Sichuan, formerly the State of Qi, was established as a new state in the 18th year of Emperor Wen's reign.
Later it was merged into Beihai County.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
户五万二百八十九，口二十二万七千三十一。
县三：剧，义山，蕤水所出，北至寿光入海。
莽曰俞。
东安平，菟头山，女水出，东北至临甾入巨定。
楼乡。
胶东国，故齐，高帝元年别为国，五月复属齐国，文帝十六年复为国。
莽曰郁秩。
户七万二千二，口三十二万三千三百三十一。
县八：即墨，有天室山祠。
莽曰即善。
昌武，下密，有三石山祠。
壮武，莽曰晓武。
郁秩，有铁官。
挺，观阳，邹卢。
莽曰始斯。
高密国，故齐，文帝十六年别为胶西国。
宣帝本始元年更为高密国。
户四万五百三十一，口十九万二千五百三十六。
县五：高密，莽曰章牟。
昌安，石泉，莽曰养信。
夷安，莽曰原亭。
成乡。
莽曰顺成。
城阳国，故齐。
文帝二年别为国。
translation: 
There are 50,289 households with 227,031 people.
There are three counties: Ju County. Ruishui originates from Yishan and flows north to Shouguang County into the sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yu County.
In Qian County, Dong'an, Nvshui originates from Tutoushan Mountain, reaches Linsu County in the northeast and flows into Juding.
Louxiang County.
Jiaodong State, the original State of Qi, was established as a vassal state in the first year of Emperor Gao. In May, it belonged to Qi State again. In the 16th year of Emperor Wen, it was restored to a vassal state.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yu Zhi.
There are 72,002 households with 323,331 people.
There are eight counties: Jimo County, where there is Tianshi Mountain Temple.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jishan County.
There are three stone mountain temples in Changwu County and Xiami County.
Zhuangwu County was called Xiaowu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yuzhi County, there is an iron official.
Ting County, Guanyang County, Zoulu County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shisi County.
Gaomi State, the former Qi State, was established as Jiaoxi State in the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign.
In the first year of Emperor Xuan's reign, it was renamed Gaomi Kingdom.
There are 40,531 households with a population of 192,536.
There are five counties: Gaomi County, which was called Zhangmu County during Wang Mang's reign.
Chang'an County, Shiquan County, and Yangxin County were called Yangxin County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yi'an County was called Yuanting County during Wang Mang's reign.
Chengxiang County.
During Wang Mang's reign, he called me Sheng Zhou.
Chengyang State, the former Qi State.
In the second year of Emperor Wen's reign, it was established as a vassal state.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
莽曰莒陵。
属兖州。
户五万六千六百四十二，口二十万五千七百八十四。
县四：莒，故国，盈姓，三十世为楚所灭。
少昊后。
有铁官。莽曰莒陵。
阳都，东安，虑。
莽曰著善。
淮阳国，高帝十一年置。
莽曰新平。
属兖州。
户十三万五千五百四十四，口九十八万一千四百二十三。
县九：陈，故国，舜后，胡公所封，为楚所灭。
楚顷襄王自郢徙此。
莽曰陈陵。
苦，莽曰赖陵。
阳夏。宁平，扶沟，涡水首受狼汤渠，东至向入淮，过郡三，行千里。
固始，圉，新平，柘。
梁国，故秦砀郡，高帝五年为梁国。
莽曰陈定。
属豫州。
户三万八千七百九，口十万六千七百五十二。
县八：砀，山出文石。
莽曰节砀。
甾，故戴国。莽曰嘉穀。
杼秋，莽曰予秋。
蒙，获水首受甾获渠，东北至彭城入泗，过郡五，行五百五十里。
莽曰蒙思。
已氏，莽曰已善。
虞，莽曰陈定亭。
下邑，莽曰下洽。
睢阳。
故宋国，微子所封。
《禹贡》盟诸泽在东北。
东平国，故梁国，景帝中六年别为济东国，武帝元鼎无年为大河郡，宣帝甘露二年为东平国。
莽曰有盐。
属兖州。
户十三万一千七百五十三，口六十万七千九百七十六。
translation: 
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Juling.
Belongs to Yanzhou.
There are 56,642 households with a population of 205,784 people.
There are four counties: Ju County, a former vassal state with the surname Ying, was destroyed by the Chu State in the March 1st Period.
Yes, descendants of Wu.
There were iron officials, and it was called Juling County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yangzhe County, Shu'an County, and Lu County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shan County.
Huaiyang Kingdom was established in the eleventh year of Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Xinping.
Belongs to Yanzhou.
There are 135,544 households with a population of 981,423 people.
There are nine counties: Chen County, the original vassal state. The fiefdom of Duke Hu, a descendant of Shun, was reduced by Chu.
King Qingxiang of Chu moved here from Ying.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Chenling County.
Ku County was called Lailing County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yangxia County, Ningping County, Fugou County, and Wo River first receive water from Langtang Canal, and flow eastward to Xiang County into the Huai River, passing through three counties and traveling a thousand miles.
Gushi County, Yu County, Xinping County, Zhe County.
Liang State, the original Yang County of Qin State, became Liang State in the fifth year of Emperor Gao.
When he was in the prime of life, his name was Chen Ding.
Belongs to Yuzhou.
There are 38,709 households and 106,752 people.
There are eight counties: Yang County, which produces patterned stones.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jiejie County.
Shi County was originally called Jiagu County when Dai Guo first came to Mang.
Decay: Qiu County, when Wang Mang was called Yu Qiu County.
In Meng County, the water first receives water from Shihuo Canal, and flows from the northeast to Pengcheng into Surabaya, passing through five counties and traveling 550 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang. It's called Munn County.
Jishi County was called Jishan County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yu County was called Chen Dingting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiayi County was called Xiaqia County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Suiyang County.
The original Song Kingdom was the fiefdom of Wei Zi.
The alliance Zhuze in "Yu Gong" is in the northeast.
Shuping Kingdom was originally the Liang Kingdom. It was established as Ji Shu Kingdom in the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign. It became Dahe County in the first year of Yuanding Emperor Wu's reign. It became Cambodian Kingdom in the second year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu.
Wang Mang's name was Youyan.
Belongs to Yanzhou.
There are 131,753 households with 607,976 people.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
有铁官。
县七：无盐，有郈乡。
莽曰有盐亭。
任城，故任国，太昊后，风姓。
莽曰延就亭。
东平陆，富城，莽曰成富。
章，亢父，诗亭，故诗国。
莽曰顺父。
樊。
鲁国，故秦薛郡，高后元年为鲁国。
属豫州。
户十一万八千四十五，口六十万七千三百八十一。
县六：鲁，伯禽所封。户五万二千。
有铁官。
卞，泗水西南至方与入沛，过郡三，行五百里，青州川。
汶阳，莽曰汶亭。
蕃，南梁水西至胡陵入沛渠。
驺，故邾国。曹姓，二十九世为楚所灭。
峄山在北。
莽曰驺亭。
薛。
夏车正奚仲所国。后迁于邳，汤相仲虺居之。
楚国，高帝置，宣帝地节元年更为彭城郡，黄龙元年复故。
莽曰和乐。
属徐州。
户十一万四千七百三十八，口四十九万七千八百四。
县七：彭城，古彭祖国。
户四万一百九十六。
有铁官。
translation: 
There are iron officials.
There are seven counties: Wuyan County and Qiu Township.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Youyanting.
Rencheng County, the original Ren State, a descendant of Taihao, with the surname Feng.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yanjiuting.
Dongpinglu County, Fucheng County, was called Chengfu County during Wang Mang's reign.
Zhang County, Kangfu County and Shiting were the original countries of poetry.
Wang Mang was in his father's county.
Fan County.
The State of Lu, formerly Xue County of the State of Qin, became the State of Lu in the first year of Gaohou.
Belongs to Yuzhou.
There are 118,045 households with 607,381 persons.
There are six counties: Lu County, Boqin's fiefdom: 52,000 households.
There are iron officials.
Bian County, the river flows southwest to Fang and flows into Peishui. It passes through three counties and travels 500 miles. It is the river of Qingzhou.
Wenyang County was called Wenting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Fan County, Nanliang water flows westward to Huling and flows into Peiqu water.
Ju County, formerly Zhu State, with the surname Cao, was destroyed by the Chu State in the 29th generation.
Bishan is in the north.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Liuting.
Xue County.
Xia Dynasty's Chezheng Xizhong's feudal state later moved to Pi, where Tang's Xiang Zhonghui lived.
Chu State was established during the reign of Emperor Gao. It was changed to Pengcheng County in the first year of Dijie of Emperor Xuan, and its original name was restored in the first year of Huanglong.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Hele.
Belongs to Xuzhou.
There are 114,738 households with 497,804 people.
There are seven counties: Pengcheng County, the original Pengzuo County.
There are 40,196 properties.
There are iron officials.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
留，梧，莽曰吾治。
傅阳，故逼阳国。
莽曰辅阳。
吕，武原，莽曰和乐亭。
甾丘。
莽曰善丘。
泗水国，故东海郡，武帝元鼎四年别为泗水国。
莽曰水顺。
户二万五千二十五，口十一万九千一百一十四。
县三：氵夌，莽曰生夌。
泗阳，莽曰淮平亭。
于。
莽曰于屏。
广陵国。高帝六年属荆州，十一年更属吴。景帝四年更名江都，武帝元狩三年更名广陵。
莽曰江平。
属徐州。
户三万六千七百七十三，口十四万七百二十二。
有铁官。
县四：广陵，江都易王非、广陵厉王胥皆都比，并得鄣郡，而不得吴。
莽曰安定，江都，有江水祠。
渠水首受江，北至射阳入湖。
高邮，平安。
莽曰杜乡。
六安国。故楚，高帝元年别为衡山国，五年属淮南。文帝十六复为衡山，武帝元狩二年别为六安国。
莽曰安风。
户三万八千三百四十五，口十七万八千六百一十六。
translation: 
Liu County, Wu County, Wang Mang asked me to govern the county.
Fuyang County, the original Shaoyang Kingdom.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Fuyang.
Lu County, Wuyuan County, was called Heleting County during Wang Mang's reign.
Shiqiu County.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Jiang Danse.
Sishui Kingdom, formerly Shuhai County, was established as Sishui Kingdom in the fourth year of Emperor Wu's Yuanding reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shuishun County.
There are 25,025 households with 119,114 people.
There are three counties: Jun County, which was called Shengmai County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Siyang County was called Huaiping Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Yu County.
When Wang Mang called it the work area question.
The Guangling Kingdom belonged to Jingzhou in the sixth year of Emperor Gao, and then belonged to Wu in the eleventh year. It was renamed Jiangdu in the fourth year of Emperor Jing, and was renamed Guangling in the third year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshou.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Jiang Ping.
Belongs to Xuzhou.
There are 36,773 households with a population of 140,722 people.
There are iron officials.
There are four counties: Guangling County. Jiangdu Yi Wangfei and Guangling Li Wangxu both established their capitals here, and obtained Zhangjun, but they did not obtain the Kingdom of Wu.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Anding County. In Jiangdu County, there is Jiangshui Temple.
For the first time, the canal water received water from the Yangtze River and flowed north to Sheyang into the lake.
Gaoyou County, Pingan County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Duxiang County.
Liu'an Kingdom, the original Chu Kingdom, was established as Hengshan Kingdom in the first year of Emperor Gao. It belonged to Huainan in the fifth year. It was renamed as Hengshan Kingdom in the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign. It was reestablished as Liu'an Kingdom in the second year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshou.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was An Feng.
There are 38,345 households with a population of 178,616 people.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
县五：六，故国，皋繇后，偃姓，为楚所灭。
如溪水首受沘，东北至寿春入芍陂。
蓼，故国，皋繇后，为楚所灭。
安丰，《禹贡》大别山在西南。
莽曰美丰。
安风，莽曰安风亭。
阳泉。
长沙国，秦郡，高帝五年为国。
莽曰填蛮。
属荆州。
户四万三千四百七十，口二十三万五千八百二十五。
县十三：临湘，莽曰抚睦。
罗，连道，益阳，湘山在北。
下隽，莽曰闰隽。
攸，酃，承阳，湘南，《禹贡》衡山在东南，荆州山。
昭陵，荼陵。泥水西入湘，行七百里。
莽曰声乡。
容陵，安成。
庐水东至庐陵，入湖汉。
莽曰思成。
本秦京师为内史，分天下作三十六郡。
汉兴，以其郡太大，稍复开置，又立诸侯王国。
武帝开广三边。
故自高祖增二十六，文、景各六，武帝二十八，昭帝一，讫于孝平，凡郡国一百三，县邑千三百一十四，道三十二，侯国二百四十一。
translation: 
There are five counties: Six counties were originally vassal states. The descendants of Gao Yao, with the surname Yan, were reduced by the Chu state.
For example, the stream first receives water from Xianshui River and flows northeast to Shouchun into Shaopi.
Liao County was originally a vassal state. The descendants of Gao Yao were destroyed by the Chu State.
Anfeng County, the Dabie Mountains in "Yu Gong" are in the southwest.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Meifeng County.
Anfeng County was called Anfeng Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Yangquan County.
Changsha State, a county of Qin State, became a state in the fifth year of Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Caiman Kingdom.
Belongs to Jingzhou.
There are 43,470 households with 235,825 people.
There are thirteen counties: Linxiang County, which was called Fumu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Luo County, Liandao County, Yiyang County, and Xiangshan County are in the north.
Xiajun County was called Runjun County during the reign of Wang Mang.
You County, Ling County, Chengyang County, and Xiangnan County. Hengshan Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the southeast and is the mountain of Jingzhou.
Zhaoling County, Daling County, muddy water flows westward into the Xiangshui River, a journey of 700 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Xiangxian.
Rongling County, Ancheng County.
Lushui flows eastwards to Luduise and flows into the plastic selection.
Wang Ling's name was Mo Shengzhong.
Originally, the capital of the Qin State was called Neishi, and the world was divided into thirty-six counties.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, because the counties of the Qin Dynasty were too large, they were gradually re-opened and established, and feudal states of princes and kings were established.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the land on three sides of the border was extensively developed.
So from the time of Emperor Gaozu, twenty-six counties were added, Emperors Wen and Jing each added six counties, Emperor Wu added twenty-eight counties, and Emperor Zhao added one county. By the time of Emperor Xiaoping, there were a total of 103 counties, 1,314 counties, 32 roads, and 241 princes.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
地东西九千三百二里。南北万三千三百六十八里。
提封田一万万四千五百一十三万六千四百五顷，其一万万二百五十二万八千八百八十九顷，邑居道路，山川林泽，群不可垦，其三千二百二十九万九百四十七顷，可垦不可垦，定垦田八百二十七万五百三十六顷。
民户千二百二十三万三千六十二，口五千九百五十九万四千九百七十八。
汉极盛矣。
凡民函五常之性，而其刚柔缓急，音声不同，系水土之风气。故谓之风；好恶取舍，动静亡常，随君上之情欲，故谓之俗。
孔子曰： 移风易俗，莫善于乐。
言圣王在上，统理人伦，必移其木，而易其末，此混同天下一之乎中和，然后王教成也。
汉承百王之末。国土变改，民人迁徙，成帝时刘向略言其地分，丞相张禹使属颍川朱赣条其风俗，犹未宣究，故辑而论之。终其本末著于篇。
秦地，于天官东井、舆鬼之分野也。
translation: 
The seven lands are 9,302 miles from east to west and 13,368 miles from north to south.
There are a total of 145,136,405 hectares of farmland in the entire territory, of which 102,528,889 hectares are places where people live in groups, roads, and mountains, rivers, and forests, and cannot be cultivated. Among them, 32,290,947 hectares, some of which can be cultivated, and some cannot be cultivated, and 8,270,536 hectares of farmland are confirmed to be cultivated.
There are 12,233,062 households and a population of 59,594,978.
The Han Dynasty reached its peak.
All common people have the five constant natures, and their hardness, softness, urgency, and different sounds and sounds are due to the different atmospheres of water and earth, so they are called wind; their likes and dislikes, movement and stillness are not normal, and they follow the desires of the king, so they are called vulgar.
Confucius said: There is no better way to change customs than music.
This means that the sage king is in the upper position and manages the ethics of the world in a unified way. He must change their roots and transform their ends. This is to mix the world into one and neutralize it, and then the king's education is formed.
At the end of the Han Dynasty, the land of the country changed and the people migrated. When he became emperor, Liu Xiang briefly described the division of the land. Prime Minister Zhang Yu asked his subordinates Ying and Zhu Gan to describe their customs in sections. They had not yet examined them all, so they concentrated on commenting and wrote the whole story into chapters.
The land of Qin State is located at the boundary between Tianguan Shujing and Yugui.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
其界自弘农故关以西，京兆、抚风、冯翊、北地、上郡、西河、安定、天水、陇西，南有巴、蜀、广汉、犍为、武都，西有金城、武威、张掖、酒泉、敦煌，又西南有牂柯、越巂、益州，皆宜属焉。
秦之先曰柏益，出自帝颛顼，尧时助禹治水，为舜朕虞，养育草木鸟兽，赐姓嬴氏，历夏、殷为诸侯。
至周有造父，善驭习马，得华骝、绿耳之乘，幸于穆王，封于赵城，故更为赵氏。
后有非子，为周孝王养马氵幵、渭之间。
孝王曰： 昔伯益知禽兽，子孙不绝。
乃封为附庸，邑之于秦，今陇西秦亭秦谷是也。
至玄孙，氏为庄公，破西戎，有其地。
子襄公时，幽王为犬戎所败，平王东迁雒邑。
襄公将兵救周有功，赐受支阝、酆之地，列为诸侯。
后八世，穆公称伯，以河为竟。
十余世，孝公用商君，制辕田，开仟伯，东雄诸侯。
子惠公初称王，得上郡、西河。
孙昭王开巴蜀，灭周，取九鼎。
昭王曾孙政并六国。称皇帝，负力怙威，燔书坑儒，自任私智。
至子胡亥，天下畔之。
故秦地于《禹贡，时跨雍、梁二州，《诗·风》兼秦、豳两国。
昔后稷封斄，公刘处豳，大王徙支阝，文王作酆，武王治镐，其民有先王遗风，好稼墙，务本业，故《豳诗》言农桑衣食之本甚备。
有鄠、杜竹林，南山檀柘，号称陆海，为九州膏腴。
始皇之初，郑国穿渠，引泾水溉田，沃野千里，民以富饶。
汉兴，立都长安，徙齐诸田，楚昭、屈、景及诸功臣家于长陵。
translation: 
Its boundaries are from Jiuguan in Hongnong County to the west, including Jingzhao County, Fufeng County, Fengyi County, Beidi County, Shangjun, Xihe County, Anding County, Tianshui County, and Longxi County. To the south, there are Bajun, Shujun, Guangmo County, Jianwei County, Wudu County, Jincheng County, Wuwei County, Zhangye County, Jiuquan County, Dunhuang County to the west, and Qunke County, Yuejun County, and Yizhou County to the southwest all belong to it.
The ancestor of the Qin State was named Bai Yi, who was born in the family of Emperor Zhuanxu. He helped Dayu control floods during the Yao period. He was an official of Emperor Shun, raising grass, trees, birds and animals. He was given the surname of Zhuan, and became a prince during the Xia and Shang periods.
During the Zhou Dynasty, there was Zaofu, who was good at driving and training horses. He got four horses with red flowers and green ears. He was favored by King Mu and was granted the title of Tongcheng, so he changed his surname to Zhao.
Later, Feizi raised horses between Yishui and Weishui for King Zhou Xiao.
King Xiao said: In the past, Boyi knew animals, and his descendants were not cut off.
So the small country that was granted the title of vassal built a town in Qin, and the Qin Valley in Qinting in Longxi is now there.
When Xuansun arrived, he was Duke Zhuang, defeated Xirong and occupied its land.
When Duke Zhuang's son was Duke Xiang, King You was defeated by Quan Rong, and King Ping Shu moved his capital to Luoyi.
Duke Xiang had meritorious service in leading troops to save the Zhou Dynasty, and was given the upper lands of Jiao and Feng, and was listed as a vassal.
Eight generations later, Duke Mu came to dominate the country, with the Yellow River as its border.
More than ten generations later, Xiaogong appointed Lord Shang, established the camp fields, opened up the roads, and dominated the feudal lords in the east.
As soon as his son Hui Gong became king, he obtained Shangjun and Xihe.
Sun Tzu, King Zhao, opened up Ba and Shu, destroyed the Zhou Dynasty, and obtained Jiuding.
Ying Zheng, the great grandson of King Zhao, annexed the six kingdoms and proclaimed himself emperor. Relying on his power, he burned books and harassed Confucians, which was in vain.
By the time of his son Hu Hai, the world had rebelled against him.
It turns out that the land of Qin State spanned the two states of Yong and Liang during the time of "Yu Gong", and the "wind" in "Shi" included both Qin and Bin states.
In the past, Houji was enfeoffed in Lian, Gongliu lived in Bin, the king moved to Yun, King Wen built Feng, and King Wu managed Hao. Their people had the style of the previous kings, loved farming, and were dedicated to their own industry. Therefore, the basics of farming, mulberry, food, clothing, etc. mentioned in "Bin Shi" were quite complete.
There are bamboo forests in E and Du, sandalwood and cusp trees in Nanshan, and the sea known as the high continent. It is a fertile place in Kyushu.
In the early days of Qin Shihuang, the state of Zheng dug canals and diverted Jing water to irrigate farmland. The fertile fields stretched thousands of miles and the people became rich.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the capital was established in Chang'an, and all the people named Tian from Qi State, Zhao, Qu, Jing from Chu State, and the families of all the heroes were moved to Changling.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
后世世徙吏二千石、高訾富人及豪桀并兼之家于诸陵。
盖亦以强干弱支，非独为奉山园也。
是故五方杂厝，风俗不纯，其世家则好礼文，富人则商贾为利，豪桀则游侠通奸。
濒南山，近夏阳，多阻险轻薄，易为盗贼，常为天下剧。
又郡国辐凑，浮食者多，民去本就末，列侯贵人车服僣上，众庶放效，羞不相及，嫁娶尤崇侈靡，送死过度。
天水、陇西，山多林木，民以板为室屋。
及安定、北地、上郡、西河，皆迫近戎狄，修习战备，高上气力，以射猎为先。
故《秦诗》曰 在其板屋 ；又曰 王于兴师，修我甲兵，与子偕行 。
及《车辚》、《四载》、《小戎》之篇，皆言车马田狩之事。
汉兴，六郡良家子选给羽林、期门，以材力为官，名将多出焉。
孔子曰： 君子有勇而亡谊则为乱，小大有勇而亡谊则为盗。
translation: 
Later generations of officials, rich people with a lot of wealth, and the families of heroes were moved to various tombs.
Probably it is also used to strengthen the trunk and weaken the branches, not just to serve the mountains and gardens.
Therefore, the five directions are mixed and the customs are not pure. The aristocratic family likes etiquette articles, the rich rely on business to make profits, and the heroes act chivalrously and behave like traitors.
It is close to Nanshan and Xia Yang, and there are many dangers and obstacles. The dissolute people are easy to become thieves, and it often becomes the most turbulent place in the world.
There are also counties and counties that are like the spokes of a chariot. There are quite a lot of freeloaders. The people have lost their roots and tended to be trivial. The princes and dignitaries have used chariots and uniforms to overstep the emperor. Everyone imitates them without feeling any shame. Marrying and marrying are more luxurious, and the funeral of parents exceeds the limit.
In Tianshui and Longxi, the mountains are rich in trees, and people use wooden boards to build houses.
As for Anding, Beidi, Shangjun, and Xihe, they are all close to Rongdi. They emphasize war preparation, uphold integrity and strength, and take hunting as the most advanced.
Therefore, "Qin Shi" said that in their wooden houses; it also said that when the king mobilized the army, I packed my mail and weapons and went forward with my son.
There are also several articles such as "Che Guan", "Four Years", and "Xiao Rong", all of which talk about hunting with chariots and horses.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the sons of the innocent families in the six previous counties were selected to serve in Yulin and Qimen. They became officials by virtue of their courage, and most of the famous generals were born here.
Confucius said: A gentleman who has courage but no righteousness will be careless; a villain who has courage but no righteousness will become a thief.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
故此数郡，民俗质木，不耻寇盗。
自武威以西，本匈奴昆邪王、休屠王地，武帝时攘之，初置四郡，以通西域，鬲绝南羌、匈奴。
其民或以关东下贫，或以报怨过当，或以誖逆亡道，家属徙焉。
习俗颇殊，地广民稀，水草宜畜牧，故凉州之畜为天下饶。
保边塞，二千石治之，咸以兵马为务；酒礼之会，上下通焉。吏民相亲。
是以其俗风雨时节，谷籴常贱，少盗贼，有和气之应，贤于内郡。
此政宽厚，吏不苛刻之所致也。
巴、蜀、广汉本南夷，秦并以为郡，土地肥美，有江水沃野，山林竹木疏食果实之饶。
南贾滇、棘僮，西近邛、莋马旄牛。
民食稻鱼，亡凶年忧，俗不愁苦，而轻易淫泆，柔弱褊厄。
translation: 
Therefore, the folk customs in these counties are simple and simple, and thieves are not ashamed.
Going west from Wuwei County, it was originally the place where King Kunxie and King Xiutu of the Huns invaded this land during the reign of Emperor Wu. Four counties were initially set up to connect the Western Regions and isolate the Southern Qiang and the Huns.
Some of the people here were moved here because of the extreme poverty in Guandong, some because of excessive revenge and resentment, and some because of rebellion and immorality, and their families were moved here.
The customs are quite different. The land is vast, the people are few, and the water and grass are suitable for feeding livestock. Therefore, Liangzhou has the most livestock in the world.
To defend the frontier, officials with two thousand stones came to manage it, all using weapons and horses as their business; banquets and etiquette gatherings were held from top to bottom, and the officials and the people were close to each other.
Therefore, the custom here is that during the windy and rainy season, the price of grain is often very low, there are relatively few thieves and thieves, and there is a harmonious atmosphere corresponding to it, which is more reasonable than the counties in the interior.
This is the result of lenient government orders and lack of harshness of officials.
Bajun, Shujun, and Guanghanjun were originally Nanyi counties. After the Qin Dynasty annexed them, they became counties. The land is fertile, with rivers irrigating the fields, and the mountains and forests are rich in bamboos, trees, vegetables, and fruits.
To the south, Dian and Fen produced many servants, while to the west, Qiong and Qian produced many horses and yaks.
The common people depend on rice and fish as their food. Without the worry of disaster years, their customs are free of sorrow and hardship. Therefore, they are prone to indulgence, weak physique, and intolerance.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
景、武间，文翁为蜀守，教民读书法令，未能笃信道德，反以好文刺讥，贵慕权势。
及司马相如游宦京师诸侯，以文辞显于世。乡党慕循其迹。
后有王褒、严遵，扬雄之徒，文章冠天下。
繇文翁倡其教，相如为之师，故孔子曰： 有教亡类。
武都地杂氐，羌，及犍为、牂柯、越巂，皆西南外夷，武帝初开置。
民俗略与巴、蜀同，而武都近天水，俗颇似焉。
故秦地天下三分之一，而人众不过什三，然量其富居什六。
吴札观乐，为之歌《秦》，曰： 此之谓夏声。
夫能夏则大，大之至也，其周旧乎？
自井十度至柳三度，谓之鹑首之次，秦之分也。
魏地，觜觿、参之分野也。
translation: 
During the reigns of Emperor Jing and Emperor Wu, Wen Weng served as the governor of Shu County. He taught the people to read and abide by laws. He did not achieve integrity and morality. Instead, he liked to use articles to satirize and admonish, advocating and envying authority and power.
When Sima Xiangru left home, he became an official in the capital and among the princes. He distinguished himself in the world with his writings and rhetoric, and the people in the countryside admired and followed his deeds.
Later, there were people like Wang Bao, Yan Zun, and Yang Xiong, whose articles ranked first in the world.
This idea was advocated by Wen Weng and Sima Xiangru was used as an example, so Confucius said: Teaching does not distinguish between objects.
The land of Wudu County is inhabited by Di and Qiang people, as well as Jianwei County, Pangke County, and Yuelun County, all of which are Yi tribes outside the southwest. It was established during the reign of Emperor Wu.
The folk customs are roughly the same as those of Ba County and Shu County, and Wudu County is close to Tianshui County, so the folk customs are quite similar.
It turns out that Qin's land occupies one-third of the world, but its population does not exceed three-tenths of the world. Calculating its wealth, it accounts for six-tenths of the world.
Wu Zha appreciated the music and composed the song "Qin", saying: "Create the sound called the Central Plains."
Being able to be friendly to the Central Plains is grand, it is the ultimate grand. Is this the old style of the Zhou Dynasty?
The position from Jing Shidu to Liu Sandu is called the Quail Head, which is the branch star of the Qin State.
The land of the Wei State is divided between the Cangli Star and the Ginseng Star.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
其界自高陵以东，尽河东、河内，南有陈留及汝南之召陵、氵隐强、新汲、西华、长平，颍川之舞阳、郾、许、傿陵、河南之开封、中牟、阳武、酸枣、卷，皆魏分也。
河内本殷之旧都，周既灭殷，分其畿内为三国，《诗·风》邶、庸、卫国是也。
鄁，以封纣子武庚；庸，管叔尹之；卫，蔡叔尹之：以临殷民，谓之三监。
故《书序》曰 武王崩，三监畔 ，周公诛之，尽以其地封弟康叔，号曰孟侯，以夹辅周室；迁邶、庸之民于洛邑，故邶、庸、卫三国之诗相与同风。
《邶诗》曰 在浚之下 ；《庸》曰 在浚之郊 ；《邶》又曰 亦流于淇 ， 河水洋洋 ，《庸》曰： 送我淇上 ， 在彼中河 。《卫》曰： 瞻彼其奥 ， 河水洋洋 。
故吴公子札聘鲁观周乐，闻《邶》、《庸》、《卫》之歌，曰： 美哉渊乎！
吾闻康叔之德如是，是其《卫风》乎？
translation: 
Its territory extends from Gaoling to the east to the ends of Hedong and Hanoi. In the south are Chenliu and Zhaoling, Liuqiang, Xinji, Xihua, and Changping in Runan; Wuyang, Lin, Xu, and Pupule in Yingchuan; and Kaifeng, Zhongmu, Yangwu, Suanzao, and Juan in Henan. They are all areas under the jurisdiction of Wei.
Hanoi was originally the old capital of the Shang Dynasty. After the Zhou Dynasty eliminated the Yin Dynasty, it divided the area within the capital into the Three Kingdoms, "Poetry." They are Bei, Yong and Weiguo in "The Wind".
The state of Bei was used to enfeoff Wu Geng, the son of King Zhou; the state of Yong was governed by Uncle Guan; the state of Wei was governed by Uncle Cai: it was used to monitor the people of the Shang Dynasty and was called the three supervisors.
Therefore, the "Preface to the Book" says that King Wu died and the three eunuchs rebelled. Duke Zhou killed them and enfeoffed all their lands to Uncle Kang, the younger brother of Duke Zhou, who was called Menghou and used to assist the Zhou family. He also moved the people of Bei and Yong to Luoyi. Therefore, the poetry styles of Bei, Yong and Wei are the same.
"Bei Shi" says it is in Junyi, "Yong Shi" says it is on the outskirts of Junyi; "Bei Shi" also says "It is also flowing in the Qishui River, and the river is mighty." "Yong Shi" says "Send me to the upper reaches of the Qishui River, in the middle of the river." "Wei Shi" says "Looking deep into the Qishui River, the river is mighty."
So Zha, the young master of the state of Wu, was invited to the state of Lu to watch the music of the Zhou Dynasty. When he heard the songs of the state of Bei, Yong, and Wei, he said: "It's so beautiful and profound!"
I heard that Uncle Kang's moral conduct is like this. Is this "Wei Feng"?


Chunk 36: 
original: 
至十六世，懿公亡道，为狄所灭。
齐桓公帅诸侯伐狄，而更封卫于河南曹、楚丘，是为文公。
而河内殷虚，更属于晋。
康叔之风既歇，而纣之化犹存，故俗刚强，多豪桀侵夺，薄恩礼，好生分。
河东土地平易，有盐铁之饶，本唐尧所居，《诗·风》唐、魏之国也。
周武王子唐叔在母未生，武王梦帝谓己曰： 余名而子曰虞，将与之唐，属之参。
乃生，名之曰虞。
至成王灭唐，而封叔虞。
唐有晋水，及叔虞子燮为晋侯云，故参为晋星。
其民有先王遗教，君子深思。小人俭陋。
故《唐诗·蟋蟀》、《山枢》、《葛生》之篇曰： 今我不乐，日月其迈 ； 宛其死矣，它人是媮 ； 百岁之后，归于其居 。
皆思奢俭之中，念死生之虑。
吴札闻《唐》之歌，曰： 思深哉！
其有陶唐氏之遗民乎？
translation: 
In the 16th generation, Yigong was immoral and was destroyed by Di.
Duke Huan of Qi led the princes to attack the Di people and transferred the Wei territory to Cao Yi and Chu Qiu Yi in the south of the Yellow River. He was named Wen Gong.
And Yinxu in Hanoi was changed to belong to Jin.
After Uncle Kang's demeanor disappeared, King Zhou's teachings remained. Therefore, the folk customs were strong, heroes robbed many things, lacked favor and etiquette, and liked rebellion.
The land east of Hedong is flat and open, rich in salt and iron. It was originally the place where Tang Yao lived and is the site of "Poetry". Panguo and Weiguo in "Wind".
Before his mother gave birth to Uncle Tang, the son of King Wu of Zhou, King Wu dreamed that God said to him: I will name your son Lu, and give him the land of Tang, which belongs to Sandan.
When Lu Chao was born, he was named Yu.
When King Cheng destroyed the Tang state, he entrusted it to Niu Yu.
Lu Li had Zicheng, and when his son Luan left, he became Zhihou, so Shenxing became the star of Jin.
The people here have the education inherited from the previous kings. The gentlemen are thoughtful and thoughtful, while the villains are stingy and vulgar.
Therefore, "Cricket", "Shanshu" and "Gesheng" in "Tang Shi" say: If I don't have fun now, the years will pass; if I die, others will be happy; after a hundred years, I will return to his grave.
All consider the moderation of luxury and frugality, and contemplate the worries of death and life.
Wu Zha heard the song of Tang Dynasty and said: The thought is so profound!
Are they the survivors of Taotang District?


Chunk 37: 
original: 
魏国，亦姬姓也，在晋之南河曲，故其诗曰 彼汾一曲 ； 寘诸河之侧 。
自唐叔十六世至献公，灭魏以封大夫毕万，灭耿以封大夫赵夙，及大夫韩武子食采于韩原，晋于是始大。
至于文公，伯诸侯，尊周室，始有河内之士。
吴札闻《魏》之歌，曰： 美哉沨々乎！
以德辅此，则明主也。
文公后十六世为韩、魏、赵所灭，三家皆自立为诸侯，是为三晋。
赵与秦同祖，韩、魏皆姬姓也。
自毕万后十世称侯，至孙称王，徙都大梁，故魏一号为梁，七世为秦所灭。
周地，柳、七星、张之分野也。
今之河南雒阳、穀城、平阴、偃师、巩、缑氏，是其分也。
昔周公营雒邑，以为在于土中，诸侯蕃屏四方，故立京师。
至幽王淫褒姒，以灭宗周，子平王东居雒邑。
translation: 
Wei State, also named Ji, is located at the bend of the Yellow River in the south of Jin State, so its poem says that it is a meander of Fen River; it is placed on the edge of Dong Hui.
From the 16th generation of Yi Zheng to Fu Gong, the Wei State was destroyed to enfeoff the official Bi Wan, the Geng was used to entrust the official Zhan Zhou, and when the official Leng Liao was entrusted to the entire plain, the country began to grow.
At the time of Duke Wen, he dominated the princes, respected the Zhou Dynasty, and began to have land in Hanoi.
Wu Zha heard the song "Wei" and said: "It's so beautiful! The music is melodious and melodious."
Assisting it with virtue is the master of enlightenment.
Sixteen generations later, the Lord was destroyed by Han, Zhou, Zhicheng, and Tangguo. The three families all established themselves as princes, creating the Three Houses.
Zhao and Tai'er have the same ancestors, and both the whole country and Wei have the surname Ji.
After ten generations from Kenwan, he was called a marquis, and when he became a grandson, he was called a king. He moved the capital to Daliang, so the Wei State was also called Liang. Seven generations later, it was destroyed by the Qin State.
The land of Zhou State is divided into Liuxing, Qixing and Zhangxing.
Now Zhou Gong's Zhouyou, Yixu, Mangbi, Baomian, Gong and Luanshi are its places.
In the past, when Duke Dan built Chudan, he thought that the city of Bian was in the center of the land and the princes would defend it on all sides, so he established the capital.
During the reign of King You of Zhou, he had an affair with Guosi and was destroyed. His son, King Ping of Zhou, went east to live in Luoyi.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
其后五伯更帅诸侯以尊周室，故周于三代最为长久。
八百余年至于赧王，乃为秦所兼。
初，雒邑与宗周通封畿，东西长而南北短，短长相覆为千里。
至襄王以河内赐晋文公，又为诸侯所侵，故其分地小。
周人之失，巧伪趋利，贵财贱义，高富下贫，憙为商贾，不好仕宦。
自柳三度至张十二度，谓之鹑火之次，周之分也。
韩地，角、亢、氐之分野也。
韩分晋得南阳郡及颍川之父城、定陵、襄城、颍阳、颍阴、长社、阳翟、郏，东接汝南，西接弘农得新安、宜阳，皆韩分也。
及《诗·风》陈、郑之国，与韩同星分焉。
郑国，今河南之新郑，本高辛氏火正祝融之虚也。
及成皋、荥阳，颍川之崇高、阳城，皆郑分也。
本周宣王弟友为周司徒，食采于宗周畿内，是为郑。
translation: 
After the creation, the five hegemons again respected the Zhou Dynasty, so the Zhou Dynasty was the longest among the three generations.
More than 800 years ago, when King Nan of Zhou Dynasty arrived, it was annexed by Qin.
At first, Luoyi was connected with the area around Zongzhou's Kyoto. It was long from east to west and short from north to south. The short and long lengths were thousands of miles apart.
During the reign of King Xiang, Hanoi was given to Duke Wen of Jin, but it was also occupied by the princes, so its territory was reduced.
The faults of the Zhou people were that they were opportunistic, pursued interests, valued wealth, despised loyalty, respected the rich, despised the poor, liked businessmen, and did not welcome officials.
From the third degree of Liu Xing to the twelfth degree of Zhang Xing, it is called the position of Quail Fire, which is the branch star of the Zhou Dynasty.
The upper ground of Korea is the dividing line between the Angular Star, the Kang Star, and the Di Star.
South Korea divided the Jin Kingdom and got Nanyang County and Ying!'s Fucheng, Dingling, Xiangcheng, Yiyang, Yingyin, Changshe, Yangzhai, Jia, Shumian bordered Runan, and connected Hongnong County to the west to get Xin'an and Yiyang, all of which were in South Korea.
And "Poetry." Chen Guo and Zheng Guo in "Wind" have the same star points as South Korea.
Zheng State, which is now Xinzheng in Henan Province, was originally the ruins of Zhu Rong, the Huo Zhengguan of the Gaozu clan.
As for Chenggao, Rongyang, Yingchuan, Shengshang and Yangcheng, they are all the places of Zheng Guo.
Originally, King Zhou Xuan's younger brother You was a Situ of the Zhou Dynasty and was enfeoffed in the capital of Dyjing, so he was named Zheng.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
郑桓公问于史伯曰： 王室多故，何所可以逃死？
史伯曰： 四方之国，非王母弟甥舅则夷狄，不可入也。其济、洛、河、颍之间乎！
子男之国，虢、会为大，恃势与险，崇侈贪冒，君若寄帑与贿，周乱而敝，必将背君；君以成周之众，奉辞伐罪，亡不克矣。
公曰： 南方不可乎？
对曰： 夫楚，重黎之后也，黎为高辛氏火正，昭显天地，以生柔嘉之材。
姜、嬴、荆、羋，实与诸姬代相干也。
姜，伯夷之后也；嬴，伯益之后也。
伯夷能礼于神以佐尧，伯益能仪百物以佐舜，其后皆不失祠，而未有兴者，周衰将起，不可逼也。
桓公从其言，乃东寄帑与贿，虢、会受之。
后三年，幽王败，桓公死，其子武公与平王东迁，卒定虢、会之地，右雒左泲，食溱、洧焉。
土阝医而险，山居谷汲，男女亟聚会，故其俗淫。
《郑诗》曰： 出其东门，有女如云。
又曰： 溱与洧方灌灌兮，士与女方秉菅兮。
恂盱且乐，惟士与女，伊其相谑。
translation: 
Duke Huan of Zheng asked Shi Bo for advice: "The royal family is subject to many changes. Where can I escape death?"
Shi Bo said: The land in the four directions is not the place where the king, mother, brother, nephew, uncle, or the Yi and Di people can enter. It is possible to enter the land between Jishui, Luoshui, Yellow River and Yingshui!
Among the countries of the viscount and baron, Guo and Hui are the largest. They rely on the situation and danger, like luxury and covet money. If you place your trust in money and bribes, the Zhou Dynasty will be turbulent and declining, and you will definitely betray you. With the people of Zhou, you can justifiably attack the sinners, and there is no one that cannot be defeated.
Duke Huan of Zheng said: Isn’t it possible in the south?
Answer: The State of Chu is the descendant of Chong Li. Chong Li is the Huo Zhengguan of the Gaoxin clan. His light shines on the heaven and earth, and gentle and kind talents emerge.
Jiang, Ying, Jing, and Mi actually had conflicts with each of the Ji generations.
Jiang is a descendant of Boyi; Zhuan is a descendant of Boyi.
Boyi was able to respect the gods to assist Yao, and Boyi was able to stabilize all things to assist Shun. Their descendants have not lost sacrifices, but without those who have prospered, the decline of the Zhou Dynasty will come, and we cannot force it.
Duke Huan of Zheng listened to Shi Bo's words and entrusted his wife and money to Shufang, and Guo and Hui Guo accepted them.
Three years later, King You declined and Duke Huan died. His son Wu Gong and Prince Ping moved eastward and finally settled the lands of Hao and Hui. On the right was Luo and on the left was Boi. They drank Qin water and Wei water.
The land is narrow and dangerous, they live in the mountains and draw water from the valleys. Men and women often gather together, so their customs are licentious.
"Zheng Shi" says: After leaving the gate of Zheng State, the wrapped women were like clouds.
He also said: The Qinshui River and the Lishui River are mighty, and men and women are holding orchids.
Both men and women are honest, and they play tricks on each other together.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
此其风也。
吴札闻《郑》之歌，曰： 美哉！
其细已甚，民弗堪也。
是其先之乎？
自武公后二十三世，为韩所灭。
陈国，今淮阳之地。
陈本太昊之虚，周武王封舜后妫满于陈，是为胡公，妻以元女大姬。
妇人尊贵，好祭祀，用史巫，故其俗巫鬼。
《陈诗》曰： 坎其击鼓，宛丘之下，亡冬亡夏，值其鹭羽。
又曰： 东门之枌，宛丘之栩，子仲之子，婆娑其下。
此其风也。
吴札闻《陈》之歌，曰： 国亡主，其能久乎！
自胡公后二十三世为楚所灭。
陈虽属楚，于天文自若其故。
颍川、南阳，本夏禹之国。
夏人上忠，其敝鄙朴。
韩自武子后七世称侯，六世称王，五世而为秦所灭。
秦既灭韩，徙天下不轨之民于南阳，故其俗夸奢，上气力，好商贾渔猎，藏匿难制御也。
translation: 
This is their custom.
Wu Zha heard Zheng Guo's song and said: It's so beautiful!
It is too weak and the people cannot bear it.
Is this a harbinger of its decline?
After twenty-three generations from Duke Wu, they were destroyed by South Korea.
Chen State is where Huaiyang is now.
The State of Chen was originally the ruins of Taiwu. King Wu of Zhou enfeoffed Shun's descendants to the State of Chen. Therefore, he was called Hu Gong and took his eldest daughter Daji as his wife.
Women were honored, liked to perform sacrifices, and appointed historians and shamans, so the custom was to dance to bring down ghosts and gods.
"Chen Shi" says: The sound of drums is rumbling, and under Wanqiu, no matter winter or summer, dance utensils made of egret feathers are erected.
He also said: Under the white elms in Shumen and the Xuxu tree in Wanqiu, Zizhong's son was dancing under the trees.
This is their custom.
After Wu Zha heard Chen Guo's song, he said: If the country has no monarch, can it last long?
Starting from Hu Gong, after twenty-three generations, it was reduced by Chu State.
Although Chen State belongs to Chu State, it still follows its own old rules in astronomy.
Yingguo and Nanyang were originally the countries of Xia Yu.
Xia people are loyal to their superiors. Their shortcoming is that they are vulgar and simple.
Korea began to be called marquis seven generations after Wu Zi, and became king after six generations. The fifth generation was destroyed by Qin.
After the Qin State destroyed South Korea, it moved the unruly people in the world to Nanyang. Therefore, the customs here are luxurious, integrity and strength are respected, and they like to buy, sell, fish and hunt, and it is difficult to control them after hiding.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
宛。西通武关，东受江、淮，一都之会也。
宣帝时，郑弘、召信臣为南阳太守，治皆见纪。
信臣劝民农桑，去末归本，郡以殷富。
颍川，韩都。
士有申子、韩非，刻害余烈，高仕宦，好文法，民以贪遴争讼生分为失。
韩延寿为太守，先之以敬让；黄霸继之，教化大行，狱或八年亡重罪囚。
南阳好商贾，召父富以本业；颍川好争讼分异，黄、韩化以笃厚。 君子之德风了，小人之德草也 ，信矣！
自东井六度至亢六度，谓之寿星之次，郑之分野，与韩同分。
赵地，昴，毕之分野。
赵分晋，得赵国。
北有信都、真定、常山、中山，又得涿郡之高阳、鄚、州乡；东有广平、巨鹿、清河、河间，又得渤海郡之东平舒、中邑、文安、束州，成平、章武，河以北也；南至浮水、繁阳、内黄、斥丘；西有太原、定襄、云中、五原、上党。
上党，本韩之别郡也，远韩近赵，后卒降赵，皆越分也。
自赵夙后九世称侯，四世敬侯徙都邯郸，至曾孙武灵王称王，五世为秦所灭。
赵、中山地薄人众，犹有沙丘纣淫乱余民。
translation: 
Wan is connected to Wuguan in the west, and Shumian receives water from the Yangtze River and Huaihe River. It is the intersection point of the entire capital.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Zheng Hong and Zhao Xinchen were the prefects of Nanyang, and their achievements in governance are recorded.
The ministers were summoned to encourage the people to engage in farming and mulberry farming, to leave behind the trivial matters and return to the basics, and the county became very prosperous.
Yeongcheon is the capital of South Korea.
Among the scholars, there were those who were sent to stay by King Yi and Chi Fei, who admired officialdom and liked the rule of law. The common people argued and rebelled because of greed and stinginess, which led to their faults.
When Zheng Yanshou became the prefect, he first implemented the etiquette of respect and surrender. Huang Ba continued it and the education became widespread. Sometimes there were no serious prisoners in the prison for eight years.
Nanyang people like to do business, and they summon ministers to persuade them to engage in farming to get rich; Ying people like to argue, and Huang Ba and Han Yanshou use their sincerity to teach. The virtue of a gentleman is like the wind, and that of a villain is like grass. This is indeed the case.
From the sixth degree of Shujing to the sixth degree of Kang, it is called the position of the longevity star. It is the dividing star of Zheng State, which is the same as the dividing star of Korea.
The upper land of Zhao State is the boundary between Pleiades and Bi stars.
After traveling to the Jin Dynasty, he obtained the Kingdom of Zhao.
To the north are Xindu, Zhending, Changshan, and Zhongshan, and to the Zhuo County are Gaoyang, Zheng, and Zhouxiang; to the east are Guangping, Julu, Qinghe, and Hejian; to the east are Shupingshu, Zhongyi, Wen'an, Shuzhou, Chengping, and Zhangwu of Bohai County; to the north of the Yellow River; to the south are Fushui, Fanyang, Neihuang, and Kuiqiu; to the west are Taiyuan, Dingxiang, Yunzhong, Wuyuan, and Shangdang.
Shangdang was originally a remote county in South Korea. It was separated from South Korea and close to the State of Zhao. Later, it finally surrendered to the State of Zhao. They were all part of the State of Zhao.
Zhao Su was named a marquis after nine generations, and Jinghou moved his capital to Handan after four generations. He became king when his great-grandson King Wuling was king. After five generations, he was destroyed by Qin.
The Kingdoms of Zhao and Zhongshan had a small territory but a large number of people, and there were also the debauched people of King Zhou of Shaqiu.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
丈夫相聚游戏，悲歌忼慨，起则椎剽掘冢，作奸巧，多弄物，为倡优。
文子弹弦跕丽，游媚富贵，遍诸侯之后宫。
邯郸北通燕、涿，南有郑、卫，漳、河之间一都会也。
其土广俗杂，大率精急，高气势，轻为奸。
太原、上党又多晋公族子孙，以诈力相倾，矜夸功名，报仇过直，嫁取送死奢靡。
汉兴，号为难治，常择严猛之将，或任杀伐为威。
父兄被诛，子弟怨愤，至告讦刺史二千石，或报杀其亲属。
钟、代、石、北，迫近胡寇，民俗懻忮，好气为奸，不事农商，自全晋时，已患其剽悍，而武灵王又益厉之。
故冀州之部，盗贼常为它州剧。
定襄、云中、五原，本戎狄也，颇有赵、齐、卫、楚之徙。
其民鄙朴，少礼文，好射猎。
translation: 
Adult men gather together to play and play, sing tragic songs generously, kill people and steal property at any moment, steal and dig up graveyards, behave cunningly, and like to cause trouble. Most of them are singing and dancing acrobats.
Women played the strings of the piano and danced lightly on their toes. They flattered wealthy people everywhere and filled the harems of princes.
Handan is connected to Yan and Zhuo to the north, and Zheng and Wei to the south. It is a big city between Zhang and the river.
This land is vast and the folk customs are complex. Generally speaking, they are sincere and impatient, advocating spirit and momentum, and despising hypocrisy and treachery.
Taiyuan and Shangdang areas are mostly descendants of the Jin clan. They use fraud to compete with each other, exaggerate their fame, take excessive revenge, and spend extravagant marriages and funerals.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty was known to be difficult to govern. They often chose majestic and fierce generals, and some killed people at will to establish their prestige.
When the father's brother was killed, the son and brother became resentful, so much so that they exposed the secrets of the governor Er Qianshi, and some even killed their relatives in revenge.
Zhongdi, Daidi, Shidi, and Beidi are close to Hu enemies. The folk customs are strong and willful. They like integrity and cunning and are not engaged in agriculture and commerce. When the Jin Dynasty was unified, they were already worried about their nimbleness and bravery. By the time of King Wuling, they were even more powerful.
Therefore, there are often more thieves in Jizhou than in other places.
Dingxiang, Yunzhong, and Wuyuan were originally the places of Rong and Di. People from Fang, Qi, Wei, and Chu often migrated here.
The people here are simple and simple, lack etiquette, and like to hunt.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
雁门亦同俗，于天文别属燕。
燕地，尾、箕分野也。
武王定殷，封召公于燕，其后三十六世与六国俱称王。
东有渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东，西有上谷、代郡、雁门，南得涿郡之易、容城、范阳、北新城、故安、涿县、良乡、新昌，及勃海之安次，皆燕分也。
乐浪、玄菟，亦宜属焉。
燕称王十世，秦欲灭六国，燕王太子丹遣勇士荆轲西刺秦王，不成而诛，秦遂举兵灭燕。
蓟，南通齐、赵，勃、碣之间一都会也。
初，太子丹宾养勇士，不爱后宫美女，民化以为俗，至今犹然。
宾客相过，以妇侍宿，嫁取之夕，男女无别，反以为荣。
后稍颇止，然终未改。
其俗愚悍少虑，轻薄无威，亦有所长，敢于急人，燕丹遗风也。
上谷至辽东，地广民希，数被胡寇，俗与赵、代相类，有渔盐枣栗之饶。
北隙乌丸、夫馀，东贾真番之利。
玄菟、乐浪，武帝时置，皆朝鲜、濊貉、句骊蛮夷。
殷道衰，箕子去之朝鲜，教其民以礼义，田蚕织作。
translation: 
The customs in Yanmen are also the same, and their astronomical affiliation is different from that of Yan.
The upper land of Yan State is the dividing line between Wei Xing and Ji Xing.
After King Wu pacified Yin, he granted Duke Zhao to the state of Yan. Thirty-six generations later, he and the six kingdoms became kings together.
Shumian includes Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong; to the west are Shanggu, Daijun, and Yanmen; to the south are Zhuojun's Yidi, Rongcheng, Fanyang, Beixincheng, Gu'an, Zhuoxian, Liangxiang, Xinchang, and Anci of Bohai, all of which belong to the Yan Kingdom.
Lelang and Xuantu also belonged to the State of Yan.
Yan was king for ten years, and Qin wanted to destroy the six countries. Crown Prince Dan of Yan sent warrior Jing Ke to the west to assassinate King Qin, but failed and was killed. Qin then raised troops to reduce Yan.
Jidi is connected to the states of Qi and Tang in the south. It is a big city between Bohai and Jieshi.
At the beginning, Prince Dan cultivated warriors based on guest etiquette and did not like beauties in the harem. This became a folk custom and is still the case today.
Guests visit each other, and women stay with them. On the wedding night, there is no difference between men and women, but they think it is an honor.
Later it gradually stopped, but finally it did not reverse.
The customs here are ignorance, bravery, lack of scruples, frivolity, meanness, and lack of majesty. They also have their strengths and dare to worry about others' needs. This is the custom left by Yan Danqian.
From Shanggu to Liaodong, the land is vast and the people are sparse. It has been invaded by barbarians several times. The customs are similar to those of Fang Di and Dai Di. They are rich in fish, salt, dates and chestnuts.
Close to Karasuma and Fuyu from the north, and seek the interests of Shinban.
Xuantu and Lelang were established during the reign of Emperor Wu. They were all barbarians from Korea, Huiliao, and Gouli.
After the fortunes of the Yin Dynasty declined, Jizi left for North Korea, teaching their people etiquette and rituals, cultivating land, raising silkworms and weaving cloth.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
乐浪朝鲜民犯禁八条：相杀以当时偿杀；相伤以谷偿；相盗者男没入为其家奴，女子为婢，欲自赎者，人五十万。
虽免为民，欲犹羞之，嫁取无所雠，是以其民终不相盗，无门户之闭，妇人贞信不淫辟。
其田民饮食以笾豆，都邑颇放效吏及内郡贾人，往往以怀器食。
郡初取吏于辽东，吏见民无闭臧，及贾人往者，夜则为盗，俗稍益薄。
今于犯禁浸多，至六十余条。
可贵哉，仁贤之化也！
然东夷天性柔顺，异于三方之外，故孔子悼道不行，设浮于海，欲居九夷，有以也夫！
乐浪海中有倭人，分为百余国，以岁时来献见云。
自危四度至斗六度，谓之析木之次，燕之分也。
齐地，虚、危之分野也。
translation: 
People in Lelang and North Korea violated eight prohibitions: murderers were killed at the time; grains were used as compensation for injuries; men were confiscated as slaves in the stolen house, and women were slaves. If they wanted to pay for their sins with their own money, each person was given five hundred thousand.
Even if they are exempted from sin and become common people, the folk customs are still shameful for them. There is no need to make a deal when marrying, so the people here never steal from each other, do not need to close their doors, and the women are loyal and honest, not lewd or evil.
The people who farmed in the fields ate beans, and the capital and towns followed the example of officials and merchants in inner counties, who often used cups to hold food.
The county government originally selected officials from Liaodong. When the officials saw that the people did not close and hide the houses, they would steal them at night after the merchants went there, and the folk customs gradually became unkind.
Now the number of violations of the ban has gradually increased, reaching more than 60.
Valuable, benevolent and virtuous teachings!
However, the Cambodian and Yi people are docile in nature, which is different from the south, west and north. Therefore, Confucius lamented that he could not implement it. He imagined crossing the sea by boat and planning to settle in Jiu Yi. It was really a well-deserved reputation!
There are Japanese people in Lelanghai, divided into more than a hundred countries, and they can be seen when they come to pay tribute every year.
From the fourth degree of Wei Xing to the sixth degree of Douxing, it is called the position of Ximu, which is the dividing star of Yan State.
The land of Qi State is at the boundary between Xuxing and Weixing.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
东有甾川、东莱、琅邪、高密、胶东，南有泰山、城阳，北有千乘，清河以南，勃海之高乐、高城、重合、阳信，西有济南、平原，皆齐分也。
少昊之世有爽鸠氏，虞、夏时有季崱，汤时有逢公柏陵，殷末有薄姑氏，皆为诸侯，国此地。
至周成王时，薄姑氏与四国共作乱，成王灭之，以封师尚父，是为太公。
《诗·风》齐国是也。
临甾名营丘，故《齐诗》曰， 子之营兮，遭我乎嶩之间兮。
又曰： 俟我于著乎而。
此亦其舒缓之体也。
吴札闻《齐》之歌，曰： 泱泱乎，大风也哉！
其太公乎？
国未可量也。
古有分土，亡分民。
太公以齐地负海舄卤，少五谷而人民寡，乃劝以女工之业，通鱼盐之利，而人物辐凑。
后十四世，桓公用管仲，设轻重以富国，合诸侯成伯功，身在陪臣而取三归。
故其俗弥侈，织作冰纨绮绣纯丽之物，号为冠带衣履天下。
translation: 
Shumian is surrounded by Shichuan, Donglai, Langye, Gaomi, and Micelle; to the south are Mount Tai and Chengyang; to the north is Qiancheng; to the south of Qinghe are Gaole, Gaocheng, Chonghe, and Yangxin in Bohai; to the west are Jinan and Pingyuan, all of which belong to the State of Qi.
In the Shaowu period, there was the Shuangjiu family, in the Yu and Xia periods there was Ji Xun, in the Tang period there was Fenggong Bailing, and in the Yin period there was no Bogu family. They were all princes who established their countries in Boguo.
When King Cheng of Zhou became king, the Bo Gu family and the four kingdoms jointly rebelled. King Cheng destroyed them and enfeoffed Master Shangfu there, creating the title of Taigong.
This is the state of Qi in "The Style of Poetry".
Linster's name is Yingqiu, so "Qi Shi" says: When you go to Yingqiu, you will meet me on Daoshan.
Then he said: Please wait for me on the ground.
This is also their relaxed and relaxed style.
After Wu Zha heard Qi's song, he said: "It's so grand, like a strong wind!"
Could it be the Grand Duke?
The country is immeasurable.
In ancient times, there was division of land, but not division of people.
Because the land of Qi State was close to the sea, it formed barren salty land and lacked grain, so the population was sparse. Therefore, he encouraged the work of female workers to smoothen the interests of fish and salt, and people and things became as numerous as convergence.
Fourteen generations later, Duke Huan of Qi appointed Guan Zhong, established the hierarchy to make the country rich and strong, united the princes to achieve overlordship, and married women of three surnames while serving as an accomplice.
Therefore, the folk customs in this area are more luxurious, weaving fine and pure white silk fabrics, silk fabrics with fine damask embroidery, and exquisite and gorgeous clothes. It is known as the world of hats, belts, clothes, and shoes.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
初，太公治齐，修道术，尊贤智，赏有功，故至今其土多好经术，矜功名，舒缓阔达而足智。
其失夸奢朋党，言与行缪，虚诈不情，急之则离散，缓之则放纵。
始桓公兄襄公淫乱，姑姊妹不嫁，于是令国中民家长女不得嫁，名曰 巫儿 ，为家主祠，嫁者不利其家，民至今以为俗。
痛乎，道民之道，可不慎哉！
昔太公始封，周公问： 何以治齐？
太公曰： 举贤而上功。
周公曰： 后世必有篡杀之臣。
其后二十九世为强臣田和所灭，而和自立为齐侯。
初，和之先陈公子完有罪来奔齐，齐桓公以为大夫，更称田氏。
九世至和而篡齐，至孙威王称王，五世为秦所灭。
临甾，海、岱之间一都会也。其中具五民云。
鲁地，奎、娄之分野也。
translation: 
In the beginning, Taigong governed the country of Qi, regulating morals and academics, respecting talents and wisdom, and rewarding meritorious people. Therefore, most people in this land now like the study of classics, are proud of their fame, are calm, humble, open-minded, and resourceful.
Their shortcomings are excessive luxury, collusion with the same kind, inconsistency between words and deeds, hypocrisy and cunning, and being inconsistent with the truth. They separate in times of crisis and let things go when things are calm.
At the beginning, Duke Huan of Qi's brother Xiang Gong was an adulterer, and his aunt and sister refused to marry, so he ordered the eldest daughter of the common people's family in the country not to get married, named Wu Jian.
Sad, how can we not be cautious in guiding people's morality!
In the past, when Taigong was just enfeoffed, Duke Zhou asked what should be used to govern the state of Qi.
Taigong said: Elect talents and reward meritorious people.
Duke Zhou said: There will definitely be ministers in future generations who usurp the throne and commit murder.
After this, the twenty-ninth generation was destroyed by the powerful minister Tian He, who established himself as the Marquis of Qi.
At first, Tian He's ancestor Chen Gongziwan defected to the investigation because of his guilt. Duke Huan of Qi appointed him as a doctor and changed his name to Tian.
Nine generations later, he came to Tianhe and sometimes usurped Qi State. When Sun Tzu became the king, he became king. After five generations, he was destroyed by Qin State.
Linsi is a big city between Hai and Dai, in which all the people from the five directions are alive.
The land of Lu State is the dividing line between Kuixing and Louxing.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
东至东海，南有泗水，至淮，得临淮之下相、睢陵、僮、取虑，皆鲁分也。
周兴，以少昊之虚曲阜封周公子伯禽为鲁侯，以为周公主。
其民有圣人之教化，故孔子曰 齐一变至于鲁，鲁一变至于道 ，言近正也。
濒洙泗之水，其民涉度，幼者扶老而代其任。
俗既益薄，长老不自安，与幼少相让，故曰： 鲁道衰，洙泗之间龂龂如也。
孔子闵王道将废，乃修六经，以述唐虞三代之道，弟子受业而通者七十有七人。
是以其民好学，上礼义，重廉耻。
周公始封，太公问： 何以治鲁？
周公曰： 尊尊而亲亲。
太公曰： 后世浸弱矣。
故鲁自文公以后，禄去公室，政在大夫，季氏逐昭公，陵夷微弱，三十四世而为楚所灭。
然本大国故自为分野。
今去圣久远，周公遗化销微，孔氏庠序衰怀。
地陿民众，颇有桑麻之业，亡林泽之饶。
俗俭啬爱财，趋商贾，好訾毁，多巧伪，丧祭之礼文备实寡，然其好学犹愈于它俗。
translation: 
It reaches Shuhai in the east, Sishui in the south, Huai River, and Linhuai's Xianxiang, Suiling, Tong, and Cholu, all of which belong to the state of Lu.
After the establishment of the Zhou Dynasty, Qufu, the ruins of Shaohao, was granted to Duke Zhou's son Boqin as the Marquis of Lu, making him the master of sacrifices to Duke Zhou.
The people here are taught by saints, so Confucius said that once the state of Qi changed to the state of Lu, the state of Lu reached the Tao, which means that it is close to the right way.
The place is close to the Zhu River and the Swimming River. The people here waded across the river, and the young people supported the old people and carried their things on their behalf.
After the folk customs became more harsh, the older people could not feel safe and quarreled with the young people, so it is said: After the moral decline of the state of Lu, the Zhu River and the Swim River argued intermittently.
Confucius lamented that the Five Ways were about to decline, so he compiled the Six Classics to record the kingly ways of the Tang, Yu and three dynasties. Seventy-seven of his disciples received the teaching and became proficient.
Therefore, the people in Zaobo like to learn, respect etiquette and justice, and value integrity.
When Zhou Gong began to enfeoff, the Taigong asked how to govern the state of Lu?
Duke Zhou said: Respect noble people and love their relatives.
Taigong said: The descendants will gradually become weaker.
Therefore, after Duke Wen of the Lu State, the official salaries were distributed to the princes, and the political power was in the hands of the officials. Duke Ji expelled Duke Zhao, and gradually weakened, and after thirty-four generations, it was reduced to the state of Chu.
But Lu was originally a big country, so it had its own divisions.
Now it has been a long time since he became a saint. The teachings sent by Duke Zhou have gradually faded away, and the school of Confucius has also declined.
The land is small and there are many people. There is a lot of mulberry and hemp production, but there is no richness like mountains, forests and lakes.
The folk custom is stingy and greedy for money, enthusiastic about business, likes to slander, and is often hypocritical and treacherous. The funeral etiquette is superficially complete but actually less than that. However, their studiousness is still stronger than the customs in other places.


Chunk 48: 
original: 
汉兴以来，鲁东海多至卿相。
东平、须昌、寿良，皆在济东，属鲁，非宋地也，当考。
宋地，房、心之分野也。
今之沛、梁、楚、山阳、济阴、东平及东郡之须昌、寿张，皆宋分也。
周封微子于宋，今之睢阳是也，本陶唐氏火正阏伯之虚也。
济阴定陶，《诗·风》曹国也。
武王封弟叔振铎于曹，其后稍大，得山阳、陈留，二十余世为宋所灭。
昔尧作游成阳，舜渔雷泽，汤止于亳，故其民犹有先王遗风，重厚多君子，好稼穑，恶衣食，以致畜藏。
宋自微子二十余世，至景公灭曹，灭曹后五世亦为齐、楚、魏所灭，三分其地。
魏得其梁、陈留，齐得其济阴、东平，楚得其沛。
故今之楚彭城，本宋也，《春秋经》曰 围宋彭城 。
宋虽灭，本大国，故自为分野。
沛楚之失，急疾颛己，地薄民贫，而山阳好为奸盗。
卫地，营室、东壁之分野也。
今之东郡及魏郡黎阳，河内之野王、朝歌，皆卫分也。
卫本国既为狄所灭，文公徙封楚丘，三十余年，子成公徙于帝丘。
故《春秋经》曰 卫迁于帝丘 ，今之濮阳是也。
本颛琐之虚，故谓之帝丘。
夏后之世，昆吾氏居之。
成公后十余世，为韩、魏所侵，尽亡其旁邑，独有濮阳。
后秦灭濮阳，置东郡，徙之于野王。
始皇既并天下，犹独置卫君，二世时乃废为庶人。
凡四十世，九百年，最后绝，故独为分野。
卫地有桑间濮上之阻，男女亦亟聚会，声色生焉，故俗称郑、卫之音。
translation: 
Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, many people in Shuhai, the state of Lu, have reached the position of prime minister.
Dongping, Xuchang, and Shouliang are all on the Shumian side of Jishui. They belong to the State of Lu and are not places of the State of Song. They should be verified.
The land of the Song Dynasty was divided into the house star and the heart star.
The current Pei, Liang, Chu, Shanyang, Jiyin, Shuping and Xuchang and Shouzhang of Shujun are all places of the Song Dynasty.
The King of Zhou sealed Weizi to the Song Dynasty, which is now Suiyang. It was originally the ruins of Huozheng Banbo of the Tao Tang family.
Jiyin's Dingtao is "Poem." Cao Guo in "Wind".
King Wu enfeoffed his younger brother Shu Zhenduo to Cao State. After that, it gradually grew in power and acquired Shanyang and Chenliu. After more than 20 generations, it was destroyed by Song State.
In the past, Yao began to travel from Chengyang, Shun fished in Luze, and Tang settled in Bo. Therefore, the people here still have the style of the previous kings. They are kind and gentlemen. They like to engage in agriculture, but do not like to enjoy clothing and food. They are dedicated to hoarding and collecting.
The Song Dynasty lasted more than twenty generations from Weizi, and by the time of King Jinggong, it destroyed the Cao Kingdom. Five generations after the elimination of the Cao Kingdom, it was also destroyed by the Qi Kingdom, the Chu Kingdom, and the Wei Kingdom, and its land was divided into three parts.
Wei got its Liang and Chenliu areas, Qi got its Jiyin and Dongping areas, and Chu got Pei.
So the current Pengcheng of the Chu State was originally a place of the Song State. The "Spring and Autumn Classic" said that Pengcheng of the Song State was surrounded.
Although the Song Dynasty was wiped out, it was originally a big country, so it divided itself into factions.
The disadvantages of Pei and Chu are that they are narrow-minded and domineering, the land is barren, the people are poor, and the people of Shanyang like to break the law and steal.
The land of Weiguo is the dividing line between Yingshi Star and Dongbi Star.
Today's Dongjun and Liyang in Weijun, Yewang and Chaoge in Hanoi are all places of Weiguo.
After the Wei Kingdom was destroyed by Di, Duke Wen moved to Chuqiu. More than thirty years later, his son Chenggong moved to Diqiu.
Therefore, the "Spring and Autumn Classic" says that the state of Wei moved to Diqiu, which is now Puyang.
It was originally the ruins of Zhuan Xiang, so it was called Emperor Qiu.
During the Xia Dynasty, the Kunwu family lived there.
More than ten generations after becoming a duke, he was invaded by Han and Wei, and all the surrounding towns were lost, leaving only Puyang.
Later, the Qin State destroyed Puyang, established Shujun, and moved it to Yewang.
After Qin Shihuang annexed the world, he still established a separate Weijun, who was deposed as a commoner during Qin II.
A total of forty generations, nine hundred years, and finally became extinct, so they were divided separately.
On the land of Wei, there is a dangerous place on Puyang between the mulberry fields, where men and women often gather together, and music and female sex are produced, so the custom is called the sound of Zheng and Wei.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
周末有子路、夏育，民人慕之，故其俗刚武，上气力。
汉兴，二千石治者亦以杀戮为威。
宣帝时韩延寿为东郡太守，承圣恩，崇礼义，尊谏争，至今东郡号善为吏，延寿之化也。
其失颇奢靡，嫁取送死过度，而野王好气任侠，有濮上风。
楚地，翼、轸之分野也。
今之南郡、江夏、零陵、桂阳、武陵、长沙及汉中、汝南郡，尽楚分也。
周成王时，封文、武光师鬻熊之曾孙熊绎于荆蛮，为楚子，居丹阳。
后十余世至熊达，是为武王，浸以强大。
后五世至严王，总帅诸侯，观兵周室，并吞江、汉之间，内灭陈、鲁之国。
后十余世，顷襄王东徙于陈。
楚有江汉川泽山林之饶；江南地广，或火耕水耨。
民食鱼稻，以渔猎山伐为业，果蓏蠃蛤，食物常足。
故蓏偷生，而亡积聚，饮食还给，不忧冻饿，亦亡千金之家。
信巫鬼，重淫祀。
而汉中淫失枝柱，与巴、蜀同俗。
translation: 
At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, there were Zilu and Xia Yu, and the people admired them, so the customs in this area were strong and brave, advocating integrity and strength.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the two thousand stone officials who came to govern also used killing to establish their prestige.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Han Yanshou served as the prefect of Shu County. He upheld the divine grace, respected etiquette and justice, and respected those who persuaded and argued. Now Shu County is known as being good at being an official. This is Han Yanshou's teaching.
Their shortcoming is that they are very extravagant and wasteful, marrying and funerals exceed the limit, but the Yewang area respects integrity and fights injustice, which is the style of the Puyang area.
The land of Chu State is the dividing line between Yi Xing and Zhen Xing.
Today's Nanjun, Jiangxia, Lingling, Guiyang, Wuling, Changsha, Mozhong, and Runan counties are all sub-regions of the Chu State.
During the reign of King Cheng of Zhou Dynasty, Xiong Yi, the great-grandson of Wan Xiong, the senior teacher of King Wen and King Wu, was granted the title of Prince of Chu in Jingman, and he settled in Danyang.
After more than ten generations, when Xiong Da arrived, he was King Wu and gradually became stronger.
After the Five Dynasties, King Yan commanded the princes, inspected the troops, and showed the Zhou Dynasty's military power. He annexed the area between the Yangtze River and the Han River, and internally destroyed the Chen and Lu states.
More than ten generations later, King Qingxiang moved eastward to the state of Chen.
Chu State is rich in the Yangtze River, Han River, rivers, lakes, mountains and forests; the land south of the Yangtze River is vast, and some areas are cultivated with fire and water.
The people lived on fish and rice, and fished, hunted, and felled mountains to obtain bamboo and wood as their main occupation. Food such as fruits, vegetables, snails, and clams were often plentiful.
Therefore, the people in this group are lazy, have no savings, can keep up with the food supply, so they don't worry about being cold and hungry, and they don't have a wealthy family.
They are superstitious about witches and ghosts and pay attention to unethical sacrifices.
The people in Hanzhong are indulgent and disobedient, which is the same as the customs of Bajun and Shujun.


Chunk 50: 
original: 
汝南之别，皆急疾有气势。
江陵，故郢都，西通巫、巴，东有云梦之饶，亦一都会也。
吴地，斗分野也。
今之会稽、九江、丹阳、豫章、庐江、广陵、六安，临淮郡，尽吴分也。
殷道既衰，周大王亶父兴支阝梁之地，长子大伯，次曰仲雍，少曰公季。
公季有圣子昌，大王欲传国焉。
大伯、仲雍辞行采药，遂奔荆蛮。
公季嗣位，至昌为西伯，受命而王。
故孔子美而称曰： 大伯，可谓至德也已矣！
三以天下让，民无提而称焉。
谓 虞仲夷逸，隐居放言，身中清，废中权。
大伯初奔荆蛮，荆蛮归之，号曰句吴。
大伯卒，仲雍立，至曾孙周章，而武王克殷，因而封之。
又封周章弟中于河北，是为北吴，后世之谓之虞，十二世为晋所灭。
后二世而荆蛮之吴子寿梦盛大称王。
其少子则季札，有贤材。
兄弟欲传国，札让而不受。
自寿梦称王六世，阖庐举伍子胥、孙武为将，战胜攻取，兴伯名于诸侯。
至子夫差，诛子胥，用宰嚭，为粤王句践所灭。
translation: 
The difference between Runan is that he has an impetuous temperament and is energetic and powerful.
Jiangling was the original capital of Ying. It was connected to Wushan and Bajun on all sides, and to the east was the rich Yunmeng area. It was also a big city.
The land of Wu State is the dividing line between fighting stars.
Today's Kuaiji, Jiujiang, Danyang, Yuzhang, Lujiang, Guangling, Lu'an, and Linhuai counties are all areas of the Wu Kingdom.
After the decline of the Yin Dynasty, King Yifu of Zhou built Jiaodi and Liangdi. His eldest son, Dabo, and his second son, Zhongyong, were less than Gongji.
Gong Ji had a clever son, Chang, and King Zhou planned to pass the country on to him.
The uncle and Zhongyong resigned to collect herbs and went to Jingman.
Gong Ji succeeded to the throne, and when he reached Chang's, he became Xibo, and he was appointed king by destiny.
Therefore, Confucius said with praise: Uncle, you can be called the most moral!
Three times the world gave in to each other, and all the people praised him.
It is said that Yu Zhong fled to the barbarians, lived in seclusion and said nothing, his body and mind were pure, and what he abandoned was in line with power.
The uncle originally defected to Jingman, but Jingman surrendered to him and was named Juwu.
After the death of his eldest uncle, Zhong Yong ascended the throne. When his great-grandson Zhou Zhang arrived, King Wu defeated Yin and therefore granted Zhou Zhang the title.
He also enfeoffed Zhou Zhang's younger brother Zhou Zhong to Hebei, which became Northern Wu. Later generations called it Yu. After twelve generations, it was destroyed by Jin.
After meeting for two generations, Wu Zishoumeng of Jingman became powerful and became king.
His youngest son was Jizha, a talented man.
The brothers gave way to each other, and Jizha refused but refused.
From the time Shoumeng became king, after six generations, Helu elected Wu Zixu and Sun Wu as generals. They won in battles and captured in attacks, and established a hegemonic reputation among the princes.
When his son Fu Chai arrived, he had Zixu executed and appointed him as the butcher. Destroyed by King Gou Jian of Guangdong.


Chunk 51: 
original: 
吴、粤之君皆好勇，故其民至今好用剑，轻死易发。
粤既并吴，后六世为楚所灭。
后秦又击楚，徙寿春，至子为秦所灭。
寿春、合肥受南北湖皮革、鲍、木之输，亦一都会也。
始楚贤臣屈原被谗放流，作《离骚》诸赋以自伤悼。
后有宋玉、唐勒之属慕而述之，皆以显名。
汉兴，高祖王兄子濞于吴，招致天下之娱游子弟，枚乘、邹阳、严夫子之徒兴于文、景之际。
而淮南王安亦都寿春，招宾客著书。
而吴有严助、朱买臣，贵显汉朝，文辞并发，故世传《楚辞》。
其失巧而少信。
初淮南王异国中民家有女者，以待游士而妻之，故至今多女而少男。
本吴、粤与楚接比，数相并兼，故民俗略同。
吴东有海盐章山之铜，三江五湖之利，亦江东之一都会也。
translation: 
The monarchs of Wu and Guangdong liked to be brave, so the people here still like to use swords, take death lightly, and are easily impulsive.
After the Guangdong State annexed the Wu State, it was reduced to the Chu State six generations later.
Later, the Qin Dynasty attacked the Chu State, and the Chu State moved to Shouchun, and was destroyed by the Qin Dynasty when his son was born.
Shouchun and Hefei areas are also big cities, receiving the leather, abalone, and tree losses from Nanbei Lake.
At the beginning, Qu Yuan, a wise minister of Chu State, was slandered and exiled. He wrote various poems in "Li Sao" to express his pain.
Later, Song Yu, Tang Le and others admired and praised him, and they all became famous for this.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Liu Bi, the son of Emperor Gaozu's brother Wang, was in the Kingdom of Wu and attracted children from all over the world to play and entertain. People like Meicheng, Zou Yang, and Yan Fuzi rose up in the Wen and Jing Dynasties.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, also made his capital in Shouchun and recruited guests to write books.
In the state of Wu, there were Yan Zhu and Zhu Maichen, who were distinguished and famous in the Han Dynasty, and their literary talents were spread together, so the "Chu Ci" was circulated in the world.
Their shortcoming is cunning and dishonesty.
At the beginning, the King of Huainan gave special treatment to the common people in the country who had daughters, waiting for tourists to marry them, so now there are more girls than boys.
Originally, the Kingdom of Wu and the Kingdom of Guangdong bordered the Kingdom of Chu and merged with each other several times, so the folk customs are roughly the same.
Wu Guoshu is surrounded by sea salt and Zhangshan copper, and has the advantages of three rivers and five lakes. It is also a big city in Jiangshu.


Chunk 52: 
original: 
豫章出黄金，然堇堇物之所有，取之不足以更费。
江南卑湿，丈夫多夭。
公稽海外有东鳀人，分为二十余国，以岁时来献见云。
粤地，牵牛、婺女之分野也。
今之苍梧、郁林、合浦、交阯、九真、南海、日南，皆粤分也。
其君禹后，帝少康之庶子云，封于会稽，文身断发，以避蛟龙之害。
后二十世，至句践称王，与吴王阖庐战，败之隽李。
夫差立，句践乘胜复伐吴。吴大破之，栖会稽，臣服请平。
后用范蠡、大夫种计，遂伐灭吴，兼并其地。
度淮与齐、晋诸侯会，致贡于周。
周元王使使赐命为伯，诸侯毕贺。
后五世为楚所灭，子孙分散，君服于楚。
后十世，至闽君摇，佐诸侯平秦。
汉兴，复立摇为越王。
是时，秦南海尉赵佗亦自王，传国至武帝时，尽灭以为郡云。
translation: 
Yuzhang produces gold, but the gold reserves are not large, and the gold collected is not enough to reward.
Jiangnan is low and humid, and most men die young.
There are Shuzhi people overseas in Kuaiji, divided into more than 20 countries, and they appear every year when paying tribute.
The land of Guangdong is the boundary between Altair and Wu Nu.
Today's Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaoshi, Jiuzhen, Nanhai, and Rinan are all places in Guangdong.
The monarch of Guangdong was a descendant of Dayu and the concubine of Emperor Shaokang. He was enfeoffed to Kuaiji and tattooed colored patterns on his body and cut his hair to avoid being harmed by dragons.
Twenty generations later, when he came to Goujian, he became king. He fought with King Wu of Helu and was defeated at Juan and Li.
After Fu Chai ascended the throne, Gou Jian took advantage of his victory to attack the state of Wu. The state of Wu defeated Gou Jian. Gou Jian settled in Kuaiji, surrendered, and asked for peace.
Later, Gou Jian adopted the strategy of Fan Li and Dafu Zhong, conquered and destroyed the Wu State, and annexed the land of the Wu State.
He crossed the Huaihe River to meet with the princes of Qi, Jin and other states to pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty.
King Zhou Yuan sent an envoy to reward Gou Jian and appointed him as the overlord. All the princes came to celebrate.
Five generations later, the State of Guangdong was destroyed by the State of Chu, and its descendants were scattered. All the monarchs also served the State of Chu and obeyed it.
After ten generations, when the king of Fujian was shaken, he assisted the princes to pacify the state of Qin.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Yao, the king of Fujian, was reestablished as the king of Yue.
At this time, Zhao Tuo, the Nanhai captain of the Qin State, also claimed to be king. The country continued until Emperor Wu, and all of them were eliminated as commanderies.


Chunk 53: 
original: 
处近海，多犀、象、毒冒、珠玑、银、铜、果、布之凑，中国往商贾者多取富焉。
番禺，其一都会也。
自合浦徐闻南入海，得大州，东西南北方千里，武帝元封元年略以为儋耳、珠厓郡。
民皆服布如单被，穿中央为贯头。
男子耕农，种禾稻、纻麻，女子桑蚕织绩。
亡马与虎，民有五畜，山多麈麖。
兵则矛、盾、刀，木弓弩、竹矢，或骨为镞。
自初为郡县，吏卒中国人多侵陵之，故率数岁一反。
元帝时，遂罢弃之。
自日南障塞、徐闻、合浦船行可五月，有都元国，又船行可四月，有邑卢没国；又船行可二十余日，有谌离国；步行可十余日，有夫甘都卢国。
自夫甘都卢国船行可二月余，有黄支国，民俗略与珠厓相类。
其州广大，户口多，多异物，自武帝以来皆献见。
translation: 
The place is close to the sea and is home to many rhinos, elephants, tortoiseshells, pearls, silver, copper, fruits and cloth. Most of the merchants from the Central Plains who went there made huge profits.
Panyu is one of its big cities.
From Xuwen in Hepu to the south and into the sea, there is Dazhou. Thousands of miles from east to west, north to south, Emperor Wu seized it as Dan'er and Zhuli counties in the first year of Yuanfeng.
The people all wore cloth alone and put their clothes on over their heads.
Men farmed, planting rice and flax, while women raised mulberry silkworms and weaved.
There are no horses or tigers. The people raise cattle, sheep, pigs, chickens, and dogs, and the mountains are dusty.
Weapons include spears, shields, knives, wooden bows, bamboo arrows, or bone arrowheads.
From the beginning, most of the counties, officials, soldiers and people from the mainland were bullying them, so there would be a rebellion in a few years.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, he abandoned Guangdong.
It took about five months to travel by boat from Baozhai, Xuwen and Hepu in the Rinan area, and there was the Duyuan Kingdom; it took about four months to travel by boat, and there was the Yilumu Kingdom; it took about twenty days to travel by boat, and there was the Chenli Kingdom; it took about ten days to walk, and there was the Fugandulu Kingdom.
It takes about two months by boat from Fugandulu country to Huangzhi country, whose folk customs are roughly the same as those in Zhuzhuang County.
This state has a large area, many households, and many strange things, which have been paid tribute since Emperor Wu.


Chunk 54: 
original: 
有译长，属黄门，与应募者俱入海市明珠、璧流离、奇石异物，赍黄金，杂缯而往。
所至国皆禀食为耦，蛮夷贾船，转送致之。
亦利交易，剽杀人。
又苦逢风波溺死，不者数年来还。
大珠至围二寸以下。
平帝元始中，王莽辅政，欲耀威德，厚遗黄支王，令遣使献生犀牛。
自黄支船行可八月，到皮宗；船行可二月，到日南、象林界云。
黄支之南，有已程不国，汉之译使自此还矣。
translation: 
A translator, a Huangmen official, went to the sea with the recruits to buy pearls, jade, strange stones and foreign objects, and went there with gold and miscellaneous silk.
The countries they visited provided them with food and traveled with them, and barbarian merchant ships transported them to where they wanted to go.
There are also those who pursue transaction profits, rob and kill.
In addition, there is the hardship of drowning in wind and waves. Without these hardships, it would take several years to return.
The largest bead is less than two inches.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang assisted in politics and wanted to show off his mighty virtues. He rewarded King Huang Zhi generously and asked him to send an envoy to present a living rhinoceros.
It took about eight months by boat from Huangzhi to reach Pizong; it took about two months by boat to reach the border of Danzhi and Xiangta.
To the south of Tongzhuli, there is Cheng Buguo, and the translator and envoy of the Han Dynasty returned from here.


