Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦武何进窦武字游平，扶风平陵人，安丰戴侯融之玄孙也。
父奉，定襄太守。
武少以经行著称，常教授于大泽中，不交时事，名显关西。
延熹八年，长女选入掖庭，桓帝以为贵人，拜武郎中。
其冬，贵人立为皇后，武迁越骑校尉，封槐里侯，五千户。
明年冬，拜城门校尉。
在位多辟名士，清身疾恶，礼赂不通，妻子衣食裁充足而已。
是时，羌蛮寇难，岁俭民饥，武得两宫赏赐，悉散与太学诸生，及载肴粮于路，丐施贫民。
兄子绍，为虎贲中郎将，性疏简奢侈。
武每数切厉相戒，犹不觉悟，乃上书求退绍位，又自责不能训导，当先受罪。
由是绍更遵节，大小莫敢违犯。
translation: 
◆Dou Wu's biography, Dou Wu's courtesy name is You Ping, a native of Pingling County, Fufeng County, and the great-great-grandson of Dai Hourong of Anfeng County.
His father, Dou Feng, was the prefect of Dingxiang.
When Dou Wu was young, he was famous for his virtues in Confucian classics. He once taught Osawa Zhong. He was not involved in current affairs, and his reputation was prominent in the Kansai area.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, the eldest daughter was elected to the palace. Emperor Huan appointed her as a nobleman and appointed Dou Wu as the doctor.
In the winter of this year, the noble lady was made queen, Dou Wu was promoted to Yueqi Xiaowei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Huaili, with 5,000 households.
In the winter of the second year, he was awarded the title of captain of the city gate.
During his tenure, he recruited famous people, was honest and dedicated to the public affairs, deeply hated bad people and bad deeds, did not accept gifts or bribes, and his wife had only enough food and clothing for food and clothing.
At this time, the Qiang barbarians were in rebellion, the harvest was poor, and the people were hungry. General Dou gave all the rewards from the two palaces to the students of the Imperial Academy, and he also used carts to carry food and meals to the poor on the roads.
Dou Shao, the son of Dou Wu's brother, was appointed as Huben's lieutenant general and had a lazy and extravagant temperament.
Dou Wu often reprimanded him severely, but he still didn't realize it, so he wrote a letter requesting that Dou Shao be removed from his post. He also blamed himself for not being able to discipline Dou Shao well and that he should suffer first.
From then on, Dou Shao abided by restraint and did not dare to violate anything illegal, no matter how big or small.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
时，国政多失，内官专宠，李膺、杜密等为党事考逮。
永康元年，上疏谏曰：臣闻明主不讳讥刺之言，以探幽暗之实；忠臣不恤谏争之患，以暢万端之事。
是以君臣并熙，名奋百世。
臣幸得遭盛明之世，逢文、武之化，岂敢怀禄逃罪，不竭其诚！
陛下初从籓国，爰登圣祚，天下逸豫，谓当中兴。
自即位以来，未闻善政。
梁、孙、寇、邓虽或诛灭，而常侍黄门续为祸虐，欺罔陛下，竞行谲诈，自造制度，妄爵非人，朝政日衰，奸臣日强，伏寻西京放恣王氏，佞臣执政，终丧天下。
今不虑前事之失，复循覆车之轨，臣恐二世之难，必将复及，赵高之变，不朝则夕。
translation: 
At that time, there were many political mistakes in the country. The eunuchs had exclusive power. Li Ying, Du Mi and others were arrested and interrogated for party affairs.
In the first year of Yongkang, Dou Wu Shangshu said: I heard that a wise emperor is not afraid of people saying sarcastic words in order to understand some dark facts; loyal ministers are not afraid of causing harm by admonishing the emperor, in order to make everything smooth for the country.
Therefore, the harmony between the monarch and his ministers will be famous for centuries.
I was lucky enough to live in the prosperous Ming Dynasty and be enlightened by civil and military forces. How dare I protect the throne in order to escape crime and not be sincere and wise to the emperor?
The emperor first lived in a vassal state and later ascended to the throne. The whole world rejoiced and thought it was the rejuvenation of the country.
However, since taking office, no good political measures have been seen.
Although Liang Ji, Sun Shou, Kou Rong, and Deng Wandai were executed, the eunuchs who often served him continued to cause trouble, bully His Majesty, and engage in deceit. They created systems without authorization and gave officials and titles to bad people at will. The politics of the court became worse day by day, and the treacherous ministers became stronger day by day. I recall that the Western Han Dynasty indulged the Wang family and ruled with flattering ministers, and finally lost the world.
Ignore the lessons of previous failures and continue on the wrong track; I am afraid that the disaster of Hu Hai, the second emperor of the Qin Dynasty, will definitely happen again, and the chaos of Zhao Gao will come either in the morning or in the evening.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
近者奸臣牢脩，造设党议，遂收前司隶校尉李膺、太仆杜密、御史中丞陈翔、太尉掾范滂等逮考，连及数百人，旷年拘录，事无效验。
臣惟膺等建忠抗节，志经王室，此诚陛下稷？伊、吕之佐，而虚为奸臣贼子之所诬枉，天下寒心，海内失望。
惟陛下留神澄省，时见理出，以厌人鬼喁喁之心。
臣闻古之明君，必须贤佐，以成政道。
今台阁近臣，尚书令陈蕃，仆射胡广，尚书朱、荀绲、刘祐、魏朗、刘矩、尹勋等，皆国之贞士，朝之良佐。
尚书郎张陵、妫皓、苑康、杨乔、边韶、戴恢等，文质彬彬，明达国典。
内外之职，群才并列。
而陛下委任近习，专树饕餮，外典州郡，内干心膂。
宜以次贬黜，案罪纠罚，抑夺宦官欺国之封，案其无状诬罔之罪，信任忠良，平决臧否，使邪正毁誉，各得其所，宝爱天官，唯善是授。
如此，咎征可消，天应可待。
translation: 
Recently, the Treacherous Officials' Prison was used to create a party meeting and arrested and interrogated former Sili school captain Li Ying, Taipu Du Mi, Yushi Zhongcheng Chen Xiang, Taiwei Peng Fanpang and others. Hundreds of people were implicated and detained and interrogated for a whole year without any factual basis.
I think Li Ying and others were loyal to the royal family and aspired to the royal family. They were really assisting the emperors Ji, Xian, Yi, and Lu, but they were framed by traitorous ministers and traitors. The whole world was chilled by this and the people of the whole country were disappointed.
Your Majesty, please pay attention to the matter and deal with it immediately to meet the expectations of humans and ghosts.
I heard that in ancient times, a wise ruler must have wise assistants to make his politics clear.
The ministers who are close to the court now, such as Shangshu Ling Chen Fan, Pushe Hu Guang, Shangshu Zhu Yu, Xun Nu, Liu Wei Lang, Liu Ju, Yin Xun, etc., are all reliable talents of the country and good assistants of the court.
The ministers Zhang Ling, Gui Hao, Yuan Kang, Yang Qiao, Bian Shao, Dai Hui, etc. were gentle and well-educated and familiar with the country's rules and regulations.
In matters both inside and outside the imperial court, all kinds of talents are there, at your Majesty's disposal.
However, His Majesty appointed a group of villains to create gluttonous, corrupt and cruel villains, and made them serve as state and county officials outside the country and as confidants in the court.
They should be demoted one by one, punished according to the severity of their crimes, deprived of the titles of eunuchs who deceived the country, and punished for their crimes of illegally deceiving the king. They should appoint loyal and virtuous people, distinguish between good and bad, make the right and wrong, repute each one in accordance with their true nature, cherish the official position, and only grant it to good people.
In this way, disasters can be eliminated and God's response can be realized immediately.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
间者有嘉禾、芝草、黄龙之见。
夫瑞生必于嘉士，福至实由善人，在德为瑞，无德为灾。
陛下所行，不合天意，不宜称庆。
书奏，因以病上还城门校尉、槐里侯印绶。
帝不许，有诏原李膺、杜密等，自黄门北寺、若卢、都内诸狱，系囚罪轻者皆出之。
其冬，帝崩，无嗣。
武召侍御史河间刘，参问其国中王子侯之贤者，称解渎亭侯宏。
武入白太后，遂征立之，是为灵帝。
拜武为大将军，常居禁中。
帝既立，论定策功，更封武为闻喜侯；子机渭阳侯拜侍中；兄子绍鄠侯，迁步兵校尉；绍弟靖西乡侯，为侍中，监羽林左骑。
武既辅朝政，常有诛剪宦官之意，太傅陈蕃亦素有谋。
时共会朝堂，蕃私谓武曰： 中常侍曹节、王甫等，自先帝时操弄国权，浊乱海内，百姓匈匈，归咎于此。
今不诛节等，后必难图。
武深然之。蕃大喜，以手推席而起。
武于是引同志尹勋为尚书令，刘瑜为侍中，冯述为屯骑校尉；又征天下名士废黜者前司隶李膺、宗正刘猛、太仆杜密、庐江太守朱等，列于朝廷，请前越巂太守荀翌为从事中郎，辟颍川陈寔为属：共定计策。
于是天下雄俊，知其风旨，莫不延颈企踵，思奋其智力。
会五月日食，蕃复说武曰： 昔萧望之困一石显，近者李、杜诸公祸及妻子，况今石显数十辈乎！
translation: 
Recently, Jiahe, Zhicao, and Huanglong have appeared.
Those auspicious things come from good people, and good fortune comes from good people. Virtue is auspicious, and lack of virtue is disaster.
What your Majesty did was not in line with God's will and should not be celebrated.
He was sent up by Shu and returned to the captain of the city gate and the Hou Yinshou of Huaili with his illness.
The emperor did not allow it, and there was an edict to free Li Ying, Du Mi, etc. from the Huangmen North Temple, Ruoxu, and all the prisons in the capital, and all the prisoners with minor crimes were released.
In the winter of this year, Emperor Huan died without any sons.
Dou Wu summoned Liu Min, the censor of Hejian, to ask him which of the princes and marquises in the country was the best. Liu Min said that Liu Hong, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was the best.
Dou Wu went to the palace to report to the Queen Mother, so he conscripted Liu Hong to be the emperor, the Ling Emperor.
He appointed Dou Wu as the general and lived in the palace.
After Emperor Ling came to the throne, he judged his merits and made Dou Wu the Marquis of Wenxi; his son Dou Ji, the Marquis of Weiyang, was appointed as the Shizhong; his elder brother Dou Shao was the Marquis of Yu and was promoted to the infantry captain; Dou Shao's younger brother Dou Jing was the Marquis of Xixiang and was the Shizhong, supervising Yulin Zuoqi.
After Dou Wu assisted the dynasty, he often had the idea of ​​​​killing eunuchs, and Taiwei Chen Fan also had this plan for a long time.
When they were meeting in the court, Chen Fan quietly said to Dou Wu: Zhongchang's servants Cao Jie, Wang Fu and others manipulated the power of the country during the reign of the late emperor, causing the world to be in chaos and causing chaos among the people. They are the fault.
If Cao Jie and others are not killed now, it will be difficult to do so in the future.
Dou Wu agreed very much. Chen Fan was so happy that he pushed the seat away with his hands and stood up.
Dou Wu then recruited his comrades Yin Xun as Shangshu Ling, Liu Yu as Shizhong, and Feng Shu as Tunqi Xiaowei. He also recruited the deposed former Sili Xiaowei Li Ying, Zongzheng Liu Meng, Imperial Servant Du Mi, Lujiang Prefect Zhu Yu, etc. to gather at the court.
Therefore, all the talented people in the world, knowing the trend of the situation, raised their heads, stood on their heels, and wanted to contribute their talents.
At the time of the solar eclipse in May, Chen Fan said to Dou Wu again: In the past, Xiao Wangzhi was harmed by Shi Xian. Recently, Li Ying and Du Mi have caused harm to their wives, families and children. Not to mention that there are dozens of people in Shi Xian today!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
蕃以八十之年，欲为将军除害。今可且因日食，斥罢宦官，以塞天变。
又赵夫人及女尚书，旦夕乱太后，急宜退绝。
惟将军虑焉。
武乃白太后曰： 故事，黄门、常侍但当给事省内，典门户，主近署财物耳。
今乃使与政事而任权重，子弟布列，专为贪暴。
天下匈匈，正以此故。
宜悉诛废，以清朝廷。
太后曰： 汉来故事世有，但当诛其有罪，岂可尽废邪？
时，中常侍管霸颇有才略，专制省内。
武先白诛霸及中常侍苏康等，竟死。武复数白诛曹节等，太后豫未忍，故事久不发。
至八月，太白出西方。
刘瑜素善天官，恶之，上书皇太后曰： 太白犯房左骖，上将星入太微，其占宫门当闭，将相不利，奸人在主傍。
愿急防之。
又与武、蕃书，以星辰错缪，不利大臣，宜速断大计。
translation: 
As an eighty-year-old man, I want to help the general eliminate harm. Now I can use the solar eclipse as an excuse to repel and depose the eunuchs to counteract the changes in heaven.
Also, Mrs. Zhao and the female minister are harassing the Queen Mother from morning to night. They should be eliminated as soon as possible.
I hope the general will consider it carefully!
Dou Wu then told the Queen Mother: The old rule is that Huangmen and regular attendants should serve in the palace, guard the door, and be in charge of the money and goods in the palace.
Now they are allowed to participate in political affairs and hold important positions, and their children are everywhere, specializing in corruption and violence.
This is the reason why the world is in turmoil.
They should all be killed and the court cleared.
The Queen Mother said: The old rules since the Han Dynasty have been passed down from generation to generation. Only those who commit crimes should be killed. Can they be abolished?
At that time, the minister Guan Ba ​​was very talented and controlled everything in the palace.
Dou Wu first asked Guan Ba ​​and Zhongchang Shi Su Kang to be executed. After the executions, Dou Wu asked Cao Jie and others to be executed again. The Queen Mother hesitated and the matter was pending for a long time.
By August, Taibai Star appears in the west.
Liu Yu usually knew a lot about astronomy and thought it was unlucky. He wrote to the Empress Dowager and said: Taibai star is in the left corner of the house star, and the general star is in Taiwei star. The divination result is: the palace gate should be closed, it is not good for the general, and the traitor is next to the master.
Please take precautions as soon as possible.
He also wrote to Dou Wu and Chen Fan that the stars were out of position and that it was not good for the ministers, so they should make a decision as soon as possible.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
武、蕃得书将发，于是以朱为司隶校尉，刘祐为河南尹，虞祁为洛阳令。
武乃奏免黄门令魏彪，以所亲小黄门山冰代之。
使冰奏素狡猾尤无状者长乐尚书郑，送北寺狱。
蕃谓武曰： 此曹子便当收杀，何复考为！
武不从，令冰与尹勋、侍御史祝瑨杂考，辞连及曹节、王甫。
勋、冰即奏收节等，使刘瑜内奏。
时，武出宿归府，典中书者先以告长乐五官史朱瑀。
瑀盗发武奏，骂曰： 中官放纵者，自可诛耳。
我曹何罪，而当尽见族灭！
因大呼曰： 陈蕃、窦武奏白太后废帝，为大逆！
乃夜召素所亲壮健者长乐从官史共普、张亮等十七人，血共盟诛武等。
曹节闻之，惊起，白帝曰： 外间切切，请出御德阳前殿。
translation: 
Dou Wu and Chen Fan received Liu Yu's letter and prepared to launch a campaign to kill the eunuchs, so they appointed Zhu Yu as Sili Xiaowei, Liu as Henan Yin, and Yu Qi as Luoyang order.
Dou Wu asked to remove Wei Biao's Huangmen Order and replace it with his trusted Xiao Huangmen Shanbing.
Shan Bingzou asked Changle Shangshu Zheng Sa, who was always cunning and extremely ruthless, to be sent to Beisi Prison.
Chen Fan said to Dou Wu: These guys should be killed immediately, why bother interrogating them!
Dou Wu did not listen to his opinions and ordered Shan Bing, Yin Xun, and Shi Yushi Zhu Wangjin to interrogate Zheng Sa in a chaotic manner. Sa's confession implicated Cao Jie and Wang Fu.
Yin Xun and Shan Bing petitioned to arrest Cao Jie and others, and asked Liu Yu to report to the Empress Dowager.
At this time, Dou Wu went out to stay and returned to his mansion. The person in charge of Zhongshu first reported him to Zhu Wangyu, the official historian of Changle.
Zhu Wangyu stole Dou Wu's memorial and read it, and cursed: Of course the eunuchs who indulge in illegal acts can be killed.
What sin do we people have, and why should we be exterminated together?
So he shouted: Chen Fan and Dou Wu asked the Queen Mother to depose the emperor. This is treason!
So in the evening, he summoned seventeen of his cronies, including the official Shi Gongpu and Zhang Liang from Changle, and made an alliance with livestock blood in their mouths to kill Dou Wu and others.
After hearing this, Cao Jie told the emperor in panic: "It's very tense outside. Please come out of Yu Deyang's front hall."


Chunk 6: 
original: 
令帝拔剑踊跃，使乳母赵娆等拥卫左右，取信，闭诸禁门。
召尚书官属，胁以白刃，使作诏板。
拜王甫为黄门令，持节至北寺狱，收尹勋、山冰。
冰疑，不受诏，甫格杀之。
遂害勋，出送。
还共劫太后，夺玺书。
令中谒者守南宫，闭门，绝复道。
使郑等持节，及侍御使、谒者捕收武等。
武不受诏，驰入步兵营，与绍共射杀使者。
召会北军五校士数千人屯都亭下，令军士曰： 黄门常待反，尽力者封侯重赏。
诏以少府周靖行车骑将军，加节，与护匈奴中郎将张奂率五营士讨武。
夜漏尽，王甫将虎贲、羽林、厩驺、都候、剑戟士，合千余人，出屯朱雀掖门，与奂等合。
明旦悉军阙下，与武对阵。
甫兵渐盛，使其士大呼武军曰： 窦武反，汝皆禁兵，当宿卫宫省，何故随反者乎？
先降有赏！
translation: 
The emperor was so excited that he drew his sword, and asked the wet nurse Zhao Rao and others to support and protect the left and right, collect the entrance certificates, and close all the forbidden doors.
Summon the ministers and officials, threaten them with swords, and make them write edicts.
He appointed Wang Fu as the Huangmen Order and went to Beisi Prison to arrest Yin Xun and Shan Bing with the emperor's order.
Shan Bing was suspicious and refused to accept the edict, so Wang Fu killed him.
So Yin Xun was killed and Zheng Sa was released.
They came back together to kidnap the Queen Mother and seize the seal.
Those who are exhausted are ordered to guard the Nangong, close the door, and cut off any further path.
Zheng Sa and others were ordered by the emperor to arrest Dou Wu and others together with the imperial censor and the envoys.
Dou Wu refused to accept the order, ran into the barracks, and shot the envoy together with Dou Shao.
He summoned thousands of soldiers from the five Northern Army schools to station under the capital pavilion, and ordered the sergeants to say: The eunuchs in Huangmen have rebelled, and those who try their best to kill them will be rewarded heavily.
The imperial edict ordered Shaofu Zhou Jing to march and ride on General Zhang Huan to lead five battalions of soldiers to attack Dou Wu.
Late at night, Wang Fu led more than a thousand people including Hu Ben, Yu Lin, Mang Ma Cu, Du Hou, and Jian Zhuo Geshi to go out of Zhuqueye Gate to join Zhang Huan and other troops.
Early the next morning, the entire army was stationed under the palace gate to confront Dou Wu's troops.
Wang Fu's troops gradually increased, and he ordered the soldiers to shout to Dou Wu's army: "Dou Wu rebels, you are all forbidden soldiers. You should protect the palace and province. Why do you follow the rebels?"
The first to surrender will be rewarded!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
营府素畏服中官，于是武军稍稍归甫。
自旦至食时，兵降略尽。
武、绍走，诸军追围之，皆自杀，枭首洛阳都亭。
收捕宗亲、宾客、姻属，悉诛之，及刘瑜、冯述，皆夷其族。
徒徙家属日南，迁太后于云台。
当是时，凶竖得志，士大夫皆丧其气矣。
武府掾桂阳胡腾，少师事武，独殡敛行丧，坐以禁锢。
武孙辅，时年二岁，逃窜得全。
事觉，节等捕之急。
胡腾及令史南阳张敞共逃辅于零陵界，诈云已死，腾以为己子，而使聘娶焉。
后举桂阳孝廉。
至建安中，荆州牧刘表闻而辟焉，以为从事，使还窦姓，以事列上。会表卒，曹操定荆州，辅与宗人徙居于鄴，辟丞相府。从征马超，为流矢所中死。
初，武母产武而并产一蛇，送之林中。
后母卒，及葬未窆，有大蛇自榛草而出，径至丧所，以头击柩，涕血皆流，俯仰蛣屈，若哀泣之容，有顷而去。
时人知为窦氏之祥。
translation: 
The camp was usually afraid of subduing the eunuchs, so Dou Wu's army returned to Wang Fu.
From morning to lunch, Dou Wu's troops had almost surrendered.
Dou Wu and Dou Shao fled and were pursued and surrounded by Wang Fu's army. They both committed suicide and showed their heads to Luoyang Duting.
Their clansmen, guests, and in-laws were all captured and killed. Liu Yu and Feng Shu all annihilated their clans.
Moved Dou Wu's family to Rinan and moved the Queen Mother to Yuntai.
At this time, the vicious eunuch succeeded, and the upright people were discouraged and dared not say anything.
Dou Wu's official Hu Teng from Guiyang, who learned from Dou Wu when he was young, collected and buried Dou Wu's body alone, so he was imprisoned and was not allowed to be an official.
Dou Wu's grandson Dou Fu, who was only two years old at the time, was not harmed because he escaped.
Later he was discovered, and Cao Jie and others arrested him urgently.
Hu Teng and Ling Shi Nanyang and Zhang Chang helped Dou Fu escape to Lingling, pretending to be dead. Hu Teng considered him his son and got a wife for him.
Later he was promoted to Guiyang Xiaolian.
During Jian'an, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, heard about it and recruited him as an official. He returned to the surname Dou and reported his facts to the court. When Liu Biao died, Cao Cao pacified Jingzhou. Dou Fu and his people moved to Ye. He was recruited into the Prime Minister's Mansion and joined the army to conquer Ma Chao. He was hit by a stray arrow and died.
At first, Dou Wu's mother gave birth to a snake while giving birth to Dou Wu, and sent the snake into the forest.
Later, Dou Wu's mother died and was buried before the coffin was placed. A big snake came out of the forest and came to the funeral site. It hit the coffin with its head, tears and blood flowed, and it lay bent and bent, as if weeping, and then left after a while.
At that time, people knew that it was the auspiciousness of the Dou family.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
腾字子升，初，桓帝巡狩南阳，以腾为护驾从事。
公卿贵戚车骑万计，征求费役，不可胜极。
腾上言： 天子无外，乘舆所幸，即为京师。
臣请以荆州刺史比司隶校尉，臣自同都官从事。
帝从之。
自是肃然，莫敢妄有干欲，腾以此显名。
党锢解，官至尚书。
张敞者，太尉温之弟也。何进字遂高，南阳宛人也。
异母女弟选入掖庭为贵人，有宠于灵帝，拜进郎中，再迁虎贲中郎将，出为颍川太守。
光和三年，贵人立为皇后，征进入，拜侍中、将作大匠、河南尹。
中平元年，黄巾贼张角等起，以进为大将军，率左右羽林五营士屯都亭，修理器械，以镇京师。
张角别党马元义谋起洛阳，进发其奸，以功封慎侯。
四年，荥阳贼数千人群起，攻烧郡县，杀中牟县令，诏使进弟河南尹苗出击之。苗攻破群贼，平定而还。
translation: 
Hu Teng's courtesy name is Zisheng. At first, Emperor Huan went on a tour of Nanyang and used Hu Teng as his escort.
The ministers, nobles, and relatives have tens of thousands of entourages, and there is no end to the demand for money and labor.
Hu Teng wrote a letter saying: The emperor has no inside or outside. The place where he goes is the capital.
I asked Bi Si, the governor of Jingzhou, to serve as the school captain, and I myself served as the official of Tongdu.
The emperor complied.
From then on, the followers did not dare to ask for anything without authorization, and Hu Teng became famous for this.
After the party ban was lifted, the official became minister.
◆He Jinzhuan, He Jinzhuan, courtesy name Suigao, was from Wan County, Nanyang.
The half-brother and daughter were selected as nobles in the palace. Emperor Ling liked her and appointed He Jin as the doctor. He was promoted to the general of the doctor in Huben and became the prefect of Yingchuan.
In the third year of Guanghe's reign, the nobleman was appointed as the queen. He was recruited to the capital and served as a servant. He was appointed as a master craftsman and Henan Yin.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban thief Zhang Jiao and others rose up, appointed He Jin as the general, and led the five battalions of Yulin on the left and right to station in the capital pavilion to repair equipment and defend the capital.
Zhang Jiao's faction, Ma Yuanyi, conspired to raise troops in Luoyang. He Jin discovered his treacherous plot and was granted the title of Marquis Shen for his merits.
In the fourth year, thousands of Xingyang thieves rioted, attacked and burned the county, and killed the county magistrate of Zhongmou. He Jin's younger brother Henan Yin Hemiao was ordered to fight. He Miao defeated the thieves, quelled the riot and returned to the capital.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
诏遣使者迎于成皋，拜苗为车骑将军，封济阳侯。
五年，天下滋乱，望气者以为京师当有大兵，两宫流血，大将军司马许凉、假司马伍宕说进曰： 《太公六韬》有天子将兵事，可以威厌四方 。
进以为然，入言之于帝。
于是乃诏进大发四方兵，讲武于平乐观下。
起大坛，上建十二重五采华盖，高十丈，坛东北为小坛，复建九重华盖，高九丈，列步兵、骑士数万人，结营为阵，天子亲出临军，驻大华盖下，进驻小华盖。
礼毕，帝躬擐甲介马，称 无上将军 ，行陈三匝而还。
诏使进悉领兵屯于观下。
是时，置西园八校尉，以小黄门蹇硕为上军校尉，虎贲中郎将袁绍为中军校尉，屯骑都尉鲍鸿为下军校尉，议郎曹操为典军校尉，赵融为助军校尉，淳于琼为佐军校尉，又有左右校尉。
translation: 
The imperial edict sent an envoy to Chenggao to welcome him, and appointed He Miao as a chariot and cavalry general and the Marquis of Jiyang.
In the past five years, the world has become more chaotic. The angry people think that there will be soldiers in the capital, and the two palaces will bleed. General Xu Liang and fake Sima Wudang said to He Jin: "Tai Gong's Six Tao" has the emperor's military affairs, which can control the four directions.
He Jin thought it was right and went to court to tell the emperor.
So he ordered He Jin to send out troops from all directions, hoping that the situation would be peaceful.
A large altar was built, with twelve layers of colorful canopies, ten feet high, built on it. A small altar was built in the northeast of the altar, and another nine layers of canopies, nine feet high, were built. Tens of thousands of infantry and knights were lined up in a camp. The emperor personally came out to review and stationed under the big canopy. How could he station under the small canopy?
After the ceremony, Emperor Ling, wearing armor and horse, called the "Supreme General" and circled the formation three times before returning.
He Jin was ordered to lead the entire army to watch.
At this time, eight captains of Xiyuan were set up, with Xiaohuangmen Jianshuo as the upper military captain, Huben Zhonglang Yuan Shao as the middle military captain, Tunqi Commander Bao Hong as the lower military captain, Yilang Cao Cao as the dian military captain, Zhao Rong as the assistant military captain, Chunyu Qiong as the assistant military captain, and the left and right captains.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝以蹇硕壮健而有武略，特亲任之，以为元帅，督司隶校尉以下，虽大将军亦领属焉。
硕虽擅兵于中，而犹畏忌于进，乃与诸常侍共说帝遣进西击边章、韩遂。
帝从之，赐兵车百乘，虎贲斧钺。
进阴知其谋，乃上遣袁绍东击徐、兗二州兵，须绍还，即戎事，以稽行期。
初，何皇后生皇子辩，王贵人生皇子协。
群臣请立太子，帝以辩轻佻无威仪，不可为人主，然皇后有宠，且进又居重权，故久不决。
六年，帝疾笃，属协于蹇硕。
硕既受遣诏，且素轻忌于进兄弟，及帝崩，硕时在内，欲先诛进而立协。
及进从外入，硕司马潘隐与进早旧。迎而目之。进惊，驰从道归营，引兵入屯百郡邸，因称疾不入。
硕谋不行，皇子辩乃即位，何太后临朝，进与太傅袁隗辅政，录尚书事。
进素知中官天下所疾，兼忿蹇硕图己，及秉朝政，阴规诛之。
袁绍亦素有谋，因进亲客张津劝之曰： 黄门常侍权重日久，又与长乐太后专通奸利，将军宜更清选贤良，整齐天下，为国家除患。
进然其言。
又以袁氏累世宠贵，海内所归，而绍素善养士，能得豪杰用，其从弟虑贲中郎将术亦尚气侠，故并厚待之。
因复博征智谋之士逄纪、何颙、荀攸等，与同腹心。
蹇硕疑不自安，与中常侍赵忠等书曰： 大将军兄弟秉国专朝，今与天下党人谋诛先帝左右，埽灭我曹。但以硕典禁兵，故且沈吟。
translation: 
Emperor Ling believed that Jian Shuo was strong and capable of military strategy. He trusted him especially and appointed him as a marshal, supervising and supervising the commanders and subordinates below the school captain. Even the generals were also under his leadership.
Although Jian Shuo was in charge of military power in the imperial court, he was still a little afraid of being jealous of He Jin, so he talked to Emperor Ling with his ministers and asked him to send He Jin to the west to attack Bian Zhang and Han Sui.
Emperor Ling listened to them and rewarded He Jin with hundreds of military chariots, tigers, sharp axes and axes.
He Jin secretly knew this was a conspiracy. So he submitted a petition to send Yuan Zhaodong to attack Xu and Yanzhou soldiers. He wanted to wait for Yuan Shao to return before sending troops to delay time.
At first, Queen He gave birth to Prince Bian, and Wang Gui gave birth to Prince Xie.
The ministers asked for a crown prince, but Emperor Ling thought that he was too frivolous and unworthy to be a king. However, the queen was favored by Emperor Ling, and He Jin held great power, so he hesitated to decide.
In the sixth year, Emperor Ling was seriously ill and asked Jian Shuo to assist Liu Xie.
Jian Shuo had received the imperial edict and had always looked down upon and envied brothers He Jin and He Miao. When Emperor Ling passed away, Jian Shuo was in the palace and wanted to kill He Jin first and establish Xie as emperor.
When He Jin came in from outside, Jian Shuo Sima Pan Yin and He Jin had known each other for a long time, and they welcomed He Jin with his eyes. He Jin was frightened and rode back to the camp from a shortcut, leading his troops to the Baijun Mansion, so he refused to go in because of illness.
Jian Shuo's plot did not come true, and Prince Bian became emperor. The Empress Dowager He came to the court to attend to the affairs of state, while He Jin and the Grand Tutor Yuan Kai assisted in the administration and also took charge of the affairs of the Secretariat.
He Jin had known for a long time that eunuchs were hated by everyone in the world, and he hated Jian Shuo for plotting to harm him and for taking over the power of the court, so he secretly arranged to kill the eunuchs.
Yuan Shao also had a plan for a long time, and asked He Jin's relative Zhang Jin to persuade He Jin: Huangmen Changshi has been in power for a long time, and he has committed adultery with the Empress Dowager Changle. The general should select virtuous talents to rectify the world and eliminate harm to the country.
He Jin thought it was right.
In addition, the Yuan family has been favored for many generations and is supported by people at home. Yuan Zhao was good at raising scholars, and the heroes were willing to be used by him. His younger brother Huben Zhonglang, General Yuan Shu, was also fond of chivalry, so they all accepted him favorably.
Therefore, more resourceful people such as Feng Ji, He, Xun You, etc. were recruited and became close friends with them.
Jian Shuo was suspicious and uneasy, so he wrote a letter to Zhao Zhong and others, saying: The generals and brothers are in power and are now plotting with the people of the world to kill those close to the late emperor and to eliminate us. It is only because I am in charge of the forbidden troops, so I am temporarily hesitant.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今宜共闭上阁，急捕诛之。
中常侍郭胜，进同郡人也。
太后及进之贵幸，胜有力焉。
故胜亲信何氏，遂共赵忠等议，不从硕计，而以其书示进。
进乃使黄门令收硕，诛之，因领其屯兵。
袁绍复说进曰： 前窦武欲诛内宠而反为所害者，以其言语漏泄，而五营百官服畏中人故也。
今将军既有元舅之重，而兄弟并领劲兵，部曲将吏皆英俊名士，乐尽力命，事在掌握，此天赞之时也。
将军宜一为天下除患，名垂后世。
虽周之申伯，何足道哉！
今大行在前殿，将军受诏领禁兵，不宜轻出入宫省。
进甚然之，乃称疾不入陪丧，又不送山陵。
遂与绍定筹策，而以其计白太后。
太后不听，曰： 中官统领禁省，自古及今，汉家故事，不可废也。
且先帝新弃天下，我奈何楚楚与士人对共事乎？
进难违太后意，且欲诛其放纵者。
绍以为中官亲近至尊，出入号令，今不悉废，后必为患。
而太后母舞阳君及苗数受诸宦官赂遗，知进欲诛之，数白太后，为其障蔽。
又言： 大将军专杀左右，擅权以弱社稷。
太后疑以为然。
中官在省闼者或数十年，封侯贵宠，胶固内外。
进新当重任，素敬惮之，虽外收大名而内不能断，故事久不决。
绍等又为画策，多召四方猛将及诸豪杰，使并引兵向京城，以胁太后。
进然之。
translation: 
Now we should work together to close the Shangge and kill them urgently.
Guo Sheng, the regular servant of Zhongchang, was from the same county as He Jin.
Fortunately for the Queen Mother and He Jin, Guo Sheng stepped in and helped.
Therefore, Guo Sheng trusted the He family, so he discussed with Zhao Zhong and others, not to follow Jian Shuo's plan, and handed over Jian Shuo's letter to He Jin.
He Jin sent the Huangmen Order to arrest and kill Jian Shuo, and then commanded the garrison himself.
Yuan Shao also persuaded He Jin: In the past, Dou Wu wanted to kill his favorite but was killed because what he said was leaked. The officials in the five camps obeyed the eunuchs and were afraid of the eunuchs.
Now the general has such an important position as his uncle, he and his brothers command powerful troops, and his subordinates are all handsome and distinguished men, and they are willing to do their best to report their fate. The matter is in control. This is the opportunity of God's help.
A general should eliminate harm for the world and be famous for future generations.
Although Uncle Shen of the Zhou Dynasty was nothing!
Now the master's coffin is in the front hall. The general is ordered to command the forbidden troops and should not enter or leave the palace at will.
He Jinshen thought it was true, so he excused himself from attending the funeral because of his illness, and refused to attend the funeral.
That is to say, he made a plan with Yuan Shao and told the Queen Mother about the plan.
The Queen Mother refused to listen and said: Eunuchs rule the forbidden provinces. From ancient times to the present, the old rules of the Han family cannot be abolished.
Moreover, the late emperor has just passed away, how can I openly work with scholars?
He Jin could not disobey the Queen Mother's will and wanted to kill those who were in charge.
Yuan Shao believed that the eunuchs were close to the emperor and issued orders. If they were not eliminated now, they would definitely cause harm in the future.
The Queen Mother's mother Wuyang Jun and He Miao accepted bribes from various eunuchs many times. Knowing that He Jin wanted to kill them, they told the Queen Mother many times to protect them.
He also said: The general is good at killing his cronies, and he monopolizes power to weaken the emperor.
The Queen Mother suspected that this was the case.
Some of the eunuchs had been at the emperor's right and left for decades. They were granted high titles and favors, and their internal and external collusion was extremely consolidated.
He Jinxin was in charge of important tasks and was usually afraid of them. Although he was famous outside, he could not make a decision in his heart, so things could not be settled for a long time.
Why did Yuan Shao and others plan to summon more powerful generals and a large number of heroes from all over the world, so that they could lead their troops to the capital to threaten the Queen Mother.
He Jin agreed.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
主簿陈琳入谏曰： 《易》称 即鹿无虞 ，谚有 掩目捕雀 。
夫微物尚不可欺以得志，况国之大事，其可以诈立乎？
今将军总皇威，握兵要，龙骧虎步，高下在心，此犹鼓洪炉燎毛发耳。
夫违经合道，无人所顺，而反委释利器，更征外助。
大兵聚会，强者为雄，所谓倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必不成，秖为乱阶。
进不听。
遂西召前将军董卓屯关中上林苑，又使府掾太山王匡东发其郡强弩，并召东郡太守桥瑁屯城皋，使武猛都尉丁原烧孟津，火照城中，皆以诛宦官为言。
太后犹不从。
苗谓进曰： 始共从南阳来，俱以贫贱，依省内以致贵富。
国家之事，亦何容易！
覆水不可收。宜深思之，且与省内和也。
进意更狐疑。
translation: 
Chen Lin, the chief bookkeeper, advised him: "The Book of Changes" states that if the deer is released, it cannot be caught. As the saying goes: Hunting sparrows while blindfolded.
If you can't deceive small things with success, how much more can you use deceit to obtain important national affairs.
Now the general has the imperial power, controls the military power, the dragon and the tiger step, whether it is high or low, it is all in your heart. This is like burning the hair on a stove. What's the difficulty?
It conforms to the Tao, goes against the scriptures, and is obeyed by heaven and man. Instead, abandon the weapon and look for foreign aid.
When the soldiers gather together, the stronger becomes the hero. This is what is called fighting and turning the tables on others. If you give the handle to others, the success will never be achieved, and the vain efforts will become the steps for chaos and evil.
He Jin refused to listen.
He summoned former general Dong Zhuo from the west to garrison in Shanglinyuan in Guanzhong, and sent Wang Kuang of Taishan to mobilize the strong crossbowmen of his county. He summoned Qiao Mao, the prefect of Dongjun, to garrison in Chenggao. He sent Ding Yuan, the commander of Wu Meng, to burn Mengjin. The fire lit up the city red, and they all said they wanted to kill the eunuchs.
The Queen Mother still disagreed.
He Miao said to He Jin: "In the beginning, we all came from Nanyang. We were poor and lowly, so we relied on the palace to gain wealth."
National affairs are not easy either!
The poured water cannot be recovered, so you should consider it carefully and maintain peace with the palace.
He Jin's thoughts became even more suspicious.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
绍惧进变计，乃胁之曰： 交构已成，形势已露，事留变生，将军复欲何待，而不早决之乎？
进于是以绍为司隶校尉，假节，专命击断；从事中郎王允为河南尹。
绍使洛阳方略武吏司察宦者，而促董卓等使驰驿上，欲进兵平乐观。
太后乃恐，悉罢中常侍小黄门，使还里舍，唯留进素所私人，以守省中。
诸常侍小黄门皆诣进谢罪，唯所措置。
进谓曰： 天下匈匈，正患诸君耳。
今董卓垂至，诸君何不早各就国？
袁绍劝进便于此决之，至于再三。进不许。
绍又为书告诸州郡，诈宣进意，使捕案中官亲属。
进谋积日，颇泄，中官惧而思变。
张让子妇，太后之妹也。让向子妇叩头曰： 老臣得罪，当与新妇俱归私门。
惟受恩累世，今当远离宫殿，情怀恋恋，愿复一入直，得暂奉望太后、陛下颜色，然后退就沟壑，死不恨矣。
子妇言于舞阳君，入白太后，乃诏诸常侍皆复入直。
八月，进入长乐白太后，请尽诛诸常侍以下，选三署郎入守宦官庐。
诸宦官相谓曰： 大将军称疾不临丧，不送葬，今郯入省，此意何为？
窦氏事竟复起邪？
又张让等使人潜听，具闻其语，乃率常侍段珪、毕岚等数十人，持兵窃自侧闼入，伏省中，及进出，因诈以太后诏召进。
入坐省闼，让等诘进曰： 天下愦愦，亦非独我曹罪也。
先帝尝与太后不快，几至成败，我曹涕泣救解，各出家财千万为礼，和悦上意，但欲托卿门户耳。
今乃欲灭我曹种族，不亦太甚乎？
卿言省内秽浊，公卿以下忠清者为谁？
translation: 
Yuan Shao was worried that He Jin would change his mind, so he threatened him: "The combined situation has been revealed. If things are not done, something will happen. What is the general waiting for? Why didn't he decide earlier?"
He Jin then appointed Yuan Shao as the commander of the Sili school, holding the talisman and commanding special orders to attack. Wang Yun, who was engaged in Zhonglang, was appointed as Henan Yin.
Yuan Shao sent Luoyang military officials to monitor the eunuchs, and sent Dong Zhuo and others to the post to prepare for the invasion.
The Queen Mother became frightened and dismissed all Xiaohuangmen and returned their envoys to their homes. Only those who were close to He Jin were left to guard the province.
All the ministers from Xiaohuangmen went to He Jin to plead guilty and listen to what He Jin would do.
He Jin said to them: "The world is in trouble, and it is the kings who are causing harm!"
Now that Dong Zhuo will arrive soon, why don't you all return to your kingdoms as soon as possible?
Yuan Shao advised He Jin to execute them at this moment, but He Jin refused again and again.
Yuan Shao also wrote to various states and counties, pretending to convey He Jin's intention to arrest the eunuch's relatives.
He Jin planned for too long, and things were leaked, and the eunuch was afraid and wanted to change.
Zhang Rang's wife, the Queen Mother's sister, Zhang Rang kowtowed to his wife and said: "I have offended the old minister, so I should stay in a private house with my bride."
I have been favored for many lifetimes, and now I have to stay away from the palace, reluctant to leave. Please enter the palace again, so that I can temporarily see the Queen Mother and the Emperor, and then go back. I will die without regrets.
The wife told Lord Wuyang that Lord Wuyang had told the Queen Mother, so he ordered all the regular attendants to return to the palace.
In August, He entered Changle and told the Queen Mother that she would kill all the regular servants and below, and select three ministers to enter the palace to guard the eunuch's palace.
The eunuchs said to each other: "The general excused himself from mourning because he was ill and did not attend the funeral. Now he suddenly came to the palace. What do you want to do?"
Did the Dou family incident happen again?
Zhang Rang and others also sent people to eavesdrop, and they listened completely to what he said, so they led the regular attendants Duan Wanggui, Bi Lan and dozens of others to quietly enter from the side door with weapons and ambush the palace. When He Jin came out, he pretended to be the Queen Mother and summoned him.
When He entered the palace, Zhang Rang and others questioned He Jin and said: "The chaos in the world is not only our fault."
The late emperor once had a feud with the Queen Mother and almost deposed her. We cried to save her, and each of us gave tens of millions of our wealth as gifts to please the Emperor. We just wanted to rely on your He family's family.
Now we actually want to kill our race. Isn't it a bit excessive?
You say that the palace is filthy and filthy, but who is loyal and honest below the rank of minister?


Chunk 14: 
original: 
于是尚方监渠穆拔剑斩进于嘉德殿前。
让、珪等为诏，以故太尉樊陵为司隶校尉，少府许相为河南尹。
尚书得诏板，疑之，曰： 请大将军出共议。
中黄门以进头掷与尚书，曰： 何进谋反，已伏诛矣。
进部曲将吴匡、张璋，素所亲幸，在外闻进被害，欲将兵入宫，宫阁闭。
袁术与匡共斫攻之。中黄门持兵守阁。
会日暮，术因烧南宫九龙门及东西宫，欲以胁出让等。
让等入白太后，言大将军兵反，烧宫，攻尚书闼，因将太后、天子及陈留王，又劫省内官属，从复道走北宫。
尚书卢植执戈于阁道窗下，仰数段珪。
段珪等惧，乃释太后。
太后投阁得免。
袁绍与叔父隗矫诏召樊陵、许相、斩之。
苗、绍乃引兵屯朱雀阙下，捕得赵忠等，斩之。
translation: 
So Shangfang's supervisor, Qu Mu, drew his sword and killed He Jin in front of the Jiade Hall.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others issued an edict to appoint the former Taiwei Fan Ling as the Sili school attaché, and the Shaofu Prime Minister Xu as Henan Yin.
The minister received the edict, suspected it was false, and said: "Please invite the general to come out and discuss it together."
Zhonghuangmen threw He Jin's head to the minister and said: "He Jin has rebelled and has been killed."
He Jin's subordinate generals Wu Kuang and Zhang Zhang were He Jin's cronies. They heard that He Jin had been killed outside and wanted to lead troops into the palace. The palace was closed and no one was allowed to enter.
Yuan Shu and Wu Kuang worked together to cut and attack, while Zhonghuang Gate defended the pavilion with weapons.
At sunset, Yuan Shu set fire to the Nine Dragon Gate of Nangong and the East and West Palaces, and wanted to threaten Zhang Rang and others to come out.
Zhang Rang and others went in and told the Queen Mother that the general had rebelled, burned the palace, and attacked the Shangshu Gate, so he kidnapped the Queen Mother, the Emperor, and King Chenliu, and also robbed the palace officials and their families, and took the North Palace via Fudao.
Shangshu Lu Zhi held a sword under the window of the pavilion, raised his head and scolded Duan Wanggui.
Duan Wanggui was afraid and released the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother jumped from the pavilion and escaped without being robbed.
Yuan Shao and his uncle Yuan Wei falsely claimed that the emperor ordered Fan Ling and Xu Xiang to be killed.
He Miao and Yuan Shao then led troops to station under Zhuque Tower, arrested Zhao Zhong and others and killed them.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
吴匡等素怨苗不与进同心，而又疑其与宦官同谋，乃令军中曰： 杀大将军者即车骑也，土吏能为报仇乎？
进素有仁恩，士卒皆流涕曰： 愿致死！
匡遂引兵与董卓弟奉车都尉旻攻杀苗，弃其尸于苑中。
绍遂闭北宫门，勒兵捕宦者，无少长皆杀之。
或有无须而误死者，至自发露然后得免。
死者二千余人。
绍因进兵排宫，或上端门屋，以攻省内。
张让、段珪等困迫，遂将帝与陈留王数十人步出穀门，奔小平津。
公卿并出平乐观，无得从者，唯尚书卢植夜驰河上，王允遣河南中部掾闵贡随植后。
贡至，手剑斩数人，余皆投河而死。
明日，公卿百官乃奉迎天子还宫，以贡为郎中，封都亭侯。
董卓遂废帝，又迫杀太后，杀舞阳君，何氏遂亡，而汉室亦自此败乱。
论曰：窦武、何进借元舅之资，据辅政之权，内倚太后临朝之威，外迎群英乘风之势，卒而事败阉竖，身死功颓，为世所悲，岂智不足而权有余乎？
translation: 
Wu Kuang waited for a long time and complained that He Miao was not of the same mind as He Jin. He also suspected that he was conspiring with the eunuchs, so he ordered the army to say: The one who killed the general was the chariot. Can you avenge the general?
He Jin was kind and kind to his subordinates, and all the soldiers cried and said: I am willing to die in repayment!
Wu Kuang led his troops and Dong Zhuo's younger brother, Fengche Duwei Dong, attacked and killed He Miao and dumped his body in the garden.
Yuan Shao closed the North Palace Gate and ordered his soldiers to capture the eunuchs. No matter how big or small, kill them all.
Some were mistakenly thought to be killed by eunuchs, while others exposed themselves and were spared from being killed.
More than two thousand people died.
Yuan Shaoyin marched into the palace, and some people from the upper gates attacked the palace.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others could not escape the siege, so they kidnapped the emperor and dozens of King Chen Liu and fled to Xiaopingjin.
The ministers all came out from Pingtang, and no one ran with them. Only Lu Zhi, the minister, rode on horseback on the river at night. Wang Yun sent Minggong from central Henan to follow Lu Zhi.
Mingong arrived and killed several people with his sword, while the rest jumped into the river and died.
The next day, the ministers and officials welcomed the emperor back to the palace, appointed Min Gong as the doctor, and granted the title of Marquis of Ting.
Dong Zhuo then deposed Emperor Ling, forced the Queen Mother to be killed, and killed Lord Wuyang. The He family died, and the Han Dynasty also fell into chaos.
The historian commented: Dou Wu and He Jin, as uncles, held the power of assisting the government. Inside the palace, they relied on the power of the Queen Mother to listen to the government, and outside they had favorable conditions for heroes to ride on the wind. Finally, they were defeated by the eunuchs, died in power, and were lamented by the world. Is it possible that they lacked intelligence but had more power?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
《传》曰： 天之废商久矣，君将兴之。
斯宋襄公所以败于泓也。
translation: 
"Zuo Zhuan" says: Heaven has abolished Shang for a long time, but you will revive it.
This is the reason why Song Xianggong was defeated by Hong!


