Summary uses chunk [3, 7, 10, 15]

Chunk 3: 
original: 
间者有嘉禾、芝草、黄龙之见。
夫瑞生必于嘉士，福至实由善人，在德为瑞，无德为灾。
陛下所行，不合天意，不宜称庆。
书奏，因以病上还城门校尉、槐里侯印绶。
帝不许，有诏原李膺、杜密等，自黄门北寺、若卢、都内诸狱，系囚罪轻者皆出之。
其冬，帝崩，无嗣。
武召侍御史河间刘，参问其国中王子侯之贤者，称解渎亭侯宏。
武入白太后，遂征立之，是为灵帝。
拜武为大将军，常居禁中。
帝既立，论定策功，更封武为闻喜侯；子机渭阳侯拜侍中；兄子绍鄠侯，迁步兵校尉；绍弟靖西乡侯，为侍中，监羽林左骑。
武既辅朝政，常有诛剪宦官之意，太傅陈蕃亦素有谋。
时共会朝堂，蕃私谓武曰： 中常侍曹节、王甫等，自先帝时操弄国权，浊乱海内，百姓匈匈，归咎于此。
今不诛节等，后必难图。
武深然之。蕃大喜，以手推席而起。
武于是引同志尹勋为尚书令，刘瑜为侍中，冯述为屯骑校尉；又征天下名士废黜者前司隶李膺、宗正刘猛、太仆杜密、庐江太守朱等，列于朝廷，请前越巂太守荀翌为从事中郎，辟颍川陈寔为属：共定计策。
于是天下雄俊，知其风旨，莫不延颈企踵，思奋其智力。
会五月日食，蕃复说武曰： 昔萧望之困一石显，近者李、杜诸公祸及妻子，况今石显数十辈乎！
translation: 
Recently, Jiahe, Zhicao, and Huanglong have appeared.
Those auspicious things come from good people, and good fortune comes from good people. Virtue is auspicious, and lack of virtue is disaster.
What your Majesty did was not in line with God's will and should not be celebrated.
He was sent up by Shu and returned to the captain of the city gate and the Hou Yinshou of Huaili with his illness.
The emperor did not allow it, and there was an edict to free Li Ying, Du Mi, etc. from the Huangmen North Temple, Ruoxu, and all the prisons in the capital, and all the prisoners with minor crimes were released.
In the winter of this year, Emperor Huan died without any sons.
Dou Wu summoned Liu Min, the censor of Hejian, to ask him which of the princes and marquises in the country was the best. Liu Min said that Liu Hong, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was the best.
Dou Wu went to the palace to report to the Queen Mother, so he conscripted Liu Hong to be the emperor, the Ling Emperor.
He appointed Dou Wu as the general and lived in the palace.
After Emperor Ling came to the throne, he judged his merits and made Dou Wu the Marquis of Wenxi; his son Dou Ji, the Marquis of Weiyang, was appointed as the Shizhong; his elder brother Dou Shao was the Marquis of Yu and was promoted to the infantry captain; Dou Shao's younger brother Dou Jing was the Marquis of Xixiang and was the Shizhong, supervising Yulin Zuoqi.
After Dou Wu assisted the dynasty, he often had the idea of ​​​​killing eunuchs, and Taiwei Chen Fan also had this plan for a long time.
When they were meeting in the court, Chen Fan quietly said to Dou Wu: Zhongchang's servants Cao Jie, Wang Fu and others manipulated the power of the country during the reign of the late emperor, causing the world to be in chaos and causing chaos among the people. They are the fault.
If Cao Jie and others are not killed now, it will be difficult to do so in the future.
Dou Wu agreed very much. Chen Fan was so happy that he pushed the seat away with his hands and stood up.
Dou Wu then recruited his comrades Yin Xun as Shangshu Ling, Liu Yu as Shizhong, and Feng Shu as Tunqi Xiaowei. He also recruited the deposed former Sili Xiaowei Li Ying, Zongzheng Liu Meng, Imperial Servant Du Mi, Lujiang Prefect Zhu Yu, etc. to gather at the court.
Therefore, all the talented people in the world, knowing the trend of the situation, raised their heads, stood on their heels, and wanted to contribute their talents.
At the time of the solar eclipse in May, Chen Fan said to Dou Wu again: In the past, Xiao Wangzhi was harmed by Shi Xian. Recently, Li Ying and Du Mi have caused harm to their wives, families and children. Not to mention that there are dozens of people in Shi Xian today!

summary:
summary line 0: Dou Wu, a native of Fufeng, was known for his virtue and Confucian scholarship. He entered officialdom after his daughter became Empress to Emperor Huan, rising to Colonel of the City Gates. He was known for his integrity, recruiting worthy men, and refusing bribes. During a famine, he distributed his own rewards to students and the poor. He strictly disciplined his extravagant nephew, Dou Shao, even requesting his dismissal. When eunuchs seized power and arrested scholars like Li Ying and Du Mi in a party affair, Dou Wu memorialized the emperor, criticizing the eunuchs' corruption and warning of historical disasters like the fall of the Qin dynasty. He defended the arrested scholars and recommended virtuous ministers. After Emperor Huan died without an heir, Dou Wu consulted with an official and installed Liu Hong as Emperor Ling. He was made a general and marquis.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
营府素畏服中官，于是武军稍稍归甫。
自旦至食时，兵降略尽。
武、绍走，诸军追围之，皆自杀，枭首洛阳都亭。
收捕宗亲、宾客、姻属，悉诛之，及刘瑜、冯述，皆夷其族。
徒徙家属日南，迁太后于云台。
当是时，凶竖得志，士大夫皆丧其气矣。
武府掾桂阳胡腾，少师事武，独殡敛行丧，坐以禁锢。
武孙辅，时年二岁，逃窜得全。
事觉，节等捕之急。
胡腾及令史南阳张敞共逃辅于零陵界，诈云已死，腾以为己子，而使聘娶焉。
后举桂阳孝廉。
至建安中，荆州牧刘表闻而辟焉，以为从事，使还窦姓，以事列上。会表卒，曹操定荆州，辅与宗人徙居于鄴，辟丞相府。从征马超，为流矢所中死。
初，武母产武而并产一蛇，送之林中。
后母卒，及葬未窆，有大蛇自榛草而出，径至丧所，以头击柩，涕血皆流，俯仰蛣屈，若哀泣之容，有顷而去。
时人知为窦氏之祥。
translation: 
The camp was usually afraid of subduing the eunuchs, so Dou Wu's army returned to Wang Fu.
From morning to lunch, Dou Wu's troops had almost surrendered.
Dou Wu and Dou Shao fled and were pursued and surrounded by Wang Fu's army. They both committed suicide and showed their heads to Luoyang Duting.
Their clansmen, guests, and in-laws were all captured and killed. Liu Yu and Feng Shu all annihilated their clans.
Moved Dou Wu's family to Rinan and moved the Queen Mother to Yuntai.
At this time, the vicious eunuch succeeded, and the upright people were discouraged and dared not say anything.
Dou Wu's official Hu Teng from Guiyang, who learned from Dou Wu when he was young, collected and buried Dou Wu's body alone, so he was imprisoned and was not allowed to be an official.
Dou Wu's grandson Dou Fu, who was only two years old at the time, was not harmed because he escaped.
Later he was discovered, and Cao Jie and others arrested him urgently.
Hu Teng and Ling Shi Nanyang and Zhang Chang helped Dou Fu escape to Lingling, pretending to be dead. Hu Teng considered him his son and got a wife for him.
Later he was promoted to Guiyang Xiaolian.
During Jian'an, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, heard about it and recruited him as an official. He returned to the surname Dou and reported his facts to the court. When Liu Biao died, Cao Cao pacified Jingzhou. Dou Fu and his people moved to Ye. He was recruited into the Prime Minister's Mansion and joined the army to conquer Ma Chao. He was hit by a stray arrow and died.
At first, Dou Wu's mother gave birth to a snake while giving birth to Dou Wu, and sent the snake into the forest.
Later, Dou Wu's mother died and was buried before the coffin was placed. A big snake came out of the forest and came to the funeral site. It hit the coffin with its head, tears and blood flowed, and it lay bent and bent, as if weeping, and then left after a while.
At that time, people knew that it was the auspiciousness of the Dou family.

summary:
summary line 1: Dou Wu, along with Grand Tutor Chen Fan, planned to eliminate the eunuchs. Chen Fan urged immediate action, citing a solar eclipse as an omen. Dou Wu proposed the plan to the Empress Dowager, but she hesitated, citing tradition. After executing some eunuchs, Dou Wu's plan to kill others like Cao Jie stalled. When an astrological omen appeared, Dou Wu and Chen Fan prepared to act. They appointed allies to key posts and arrested a eunuch, whose confession implicated Cao Jie and Wang Fu. However, a eunuch stole the memorial and alerted his colleagues. They falsely accused Dou Wu of treason to the young emperor, seized the Empress Dowager, and issued an edict for Dou Wu's arrest. Dou Wu refused to submit, rallied troops, but his soldiers were persuaded to defect by the imperial edict. Pursued, Dou Wu and his nephew committed suicide. Their clans were exterminated, and the Queen Mother was moved. Dou Wu's grandson, Dou Fu, was saved by a former student, Hu Teng, who hid him and later helped him establish a family.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝以蹇硕壮健而有武略，特亲任之，以为元帅，督司隶校尉以下，虽大将军亦领属焉。
硕虽擅兵于中，而犹畏忌于进，乃与诸常侍共说帝遣进西击边章、韩遂。
帝从之，赐兵车百乘，虎贲斧钺。
进阴知其谋，乃上遣袁绍东击徐、兗二州兵，须绍还，即戎事，以稽行期。
初，何皇后生皇子辩，王贵人生皇子协。
群臣请立太子，帝以辩轻佻无威仪，不可为人主，然皇后有宠，且进又居重权，故久不决。
六年，帝疾笃，属协于蹇硕。
硕既受遣诏，且素轻忌于进兄弟，及帝崩，硕时在内，欲先诛进而立协。
及进从外入，硕司马潘隐与进早旧。迎而目之。进惊，驰从道归营，引兵入屯百郡邸，因称疾不入。
硕谋不行，皇子辩乃即位，何太后临朝，进与太傅袁隗辅政，录尚书事。
进素知中官天下所疾，兼忿蹇硕图己，及秉朝政，阴规诛之。
袁绍亦素有谋，因进亲客张津劝之曰： 黄门常侍权重日久，又与长乐太后专通奸利，将军宜更清选贤良，整齐天下，为国家除患。
进然其言。
又以袁氏累世宠贵，海内所归，而绍素善养士，能得豪杰用，其从弟虑贲中郎将术亦尚气侠，故并厚待之。
因复博征智谋之士逄纪、何颙、荀攸等，与同腹心。
蹇硕疑不自安，与中常侍赵忠等书曰： 大将军兄弟秉国专朝，今与天下党人谋诛先帝左右，埽灭我曹。但以硕典禁兵，故且沈吟。
translation: 
Emperor Ling believed that Jian Shuo was strong and capable of military strategy. He trusted him especially and appointed him as a marshal, supervising and supervising the commanders and subordinates below the school captain. Even the generals were also under his leadership.
Although Jian Shuo was in charge of military power in the imperial court, he was still a little afraid of being jealous of He Jin, so he talked to Emperor Ling with his ministers and asked him to send He Jin to the west to attack Bian Zhang and Han Sui.
Emperor Ling listened to them and rewarded He Jin with hundreds of military chariots, tigers, sharp axes and axes.
He Jin secretly knew this was a conspiracy. So he submitted a petition to send Yuan Zhaodong to attack Xu and Yanzhou soldiers. He wanted to wait for Yuan Shao to return before sending troops to delay time.
At first, Queen He gave birth to Prince Bian, and Wang Gui gave birth to Prince Xie.
The ministers asked for a crown prince, but Emperor Ling thought that he was too frivolous and unworthy to be a king. However, the queen was favored by Emperor Ling, and He Jin held great power, so he hesitated to decide.
In the sixth year, Emperor Ling was seriously ill and asked Jian Shuo to assist Liu Xie.
Jian Shuo had received the imperial edict and had always looked down upon and envied brothers He Jin and He Miao. When Emperor Ling passed away, Jian Shuo was in the palace and wanted to kill He Jin first and establish Xie as emperor.
When He Jin came in from outside, Jian Shuo Sima Pan Yin and He Jin had known each other for a long time, and they welcomed He Jin with his eyes. He Jin was frightened and rode back to the camp from a shortcut, leading his troops to the Baijun Mansion, so he refused to go in because of illness.
Jian Shuo's plot did not come true, and Prince Bian became emperor. The Empress Dowager He came to the court to attend to the affairs of state, while He Jin and the Grand Tutor Yuan Kai assisted in the administration and also took charge of the affairs of the Secretariat.
He Jin had known for a long time that eunuchs were hated by everyone in the world, and he hated Jian Shuo for plotting to harm him and for taking over the power of the court, so he secretly arranged to kill the eunuchs.
Yuan Shao also had a plan for a long time, and asked He Jin's relative Zhang Jin to persuade He Jin: Huangmen Changshi has been in power for a long time, and he has committed adultery with the Empress Dowager Changle. The general should select virtuous talents to rectify the world and eliminate harm to the country.
He Jin thought it was right.
In addition, the Yuan family has been favored for many generations and is supported by people at home. Yuan Zhao was good at raising scholars, and the heroes were willing to be used by him. His younger brother Huben Zhonglang, General Yuan Shu, was also fond of chivalry, so they all accepted him favorably.
Therefore, more resourceful people such as Feng Ji, He, Xun You, etc. were recruited and became close friends with them.
Jian Shuo was suspicious and uneasy, so he wrote a letter to Zhao Zhong and others, saying: The generals and brothers are in power and are now plotting with the people of the world to kill those close to the late emperor and to eliminate us. It is only because I am in charge of the forbidden troops, so I am temporarily hesitant.

summary:
summary line 2: He Jin, from Nanyang, rose to power after his half-sister became Empress to Emperor Ling. He was made a general to suppress the Yellow Turban rebellion and later a marquis. He and his brother He Miao defeated a rebellion of thieves. Emperor Ling established a new army with eight colonels, entrusting the eunuch Jian Shuo with overall command. Jian Shuo, fearing He Jin, plotted to send him away. When Emperor Ling died, Jian Shuo planned to kill He Jin and install Prince Xie as emperor, but He Jin was warned and avoided the trap. He Jin then made Prince Bian emperor, with the Empress Dowager as regent. He Jin, hating the eunuchs and Jian Shuo's plot, planned to eliminate them with Yuan Shao's support. However, the Empress Dowager refused, and He Jin's relatives, bribed by eunuchs, also opposed him.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
吴匡等素怨苗不与进同心，而又疑其与宦官同谋，乃令军中曰： 杀大将军者即车骑也，土吏能为报仇乎？
进素有仁恩，士卒皆流涕曰： 愿致死！
匡遂引兵与董卓弟奉车都尉旻攻杀苗，弃其尸于苑中。
绍遂闭北宫门，勒兵捕宦者，无少长皆杀之。
或有无须而误死者，至自发露然后得免。
死者二千余人。
绍因进兵排宫，或上端门屋，以攻省内。
张让、段珪等困迫，遂将帝与陈留王数十人步出穀门，奔小平津。
公卿并出平乐观，无得从者，唯尚书卢植夜驰河上，王允遣河南中部掾闵贡随植后。
贡至，手剑斩数人，余皆投河而死。
明日，公卿百官乃奉迎天子还宫，以贡为郎中，封都亭侯。
董卓遂废帝，又迫杀太后，杀舞阳君，何氏遂亡，而汉室亦自此败乱。
论曰：窦武、何进借元舅之资，据辅政之权，内倚太后临朝之威，外迎群英乘风之势，卒而事败阉竖，身死功颓，为世所悲，岂智不足而权有余乎？
translation: 
Wu Kuang waited for a long time and complained that He Miao was not of the same mind as He Jin. He also suspected that he was conspiring with the eunuchs, so he ordered the army to say: The one who killed the general was the chariot. Can you avenge the general?
He Jin was kind and kind to his subordinates, and all the soldiers cried and said: I am willing to die in repayment!
Wu Kuang led his troops and Dong Zhuo's younger brother, Fengche Duwei Dong, attacked and killed He Miao and dumped his body in the garden.
Yuan Shao closed the North Palace Gate and ordered his soldiers to capture the eunuchs. No matter how big or small, kill them all.
Some were mistakenly thought to be killed by eunuchs, while others exposed themselves and were spared from being killed.
More than two thousand people died.
Yuan Shaoyin marched into the palace, and some people from the upper gates attacked the palace.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others could not escape the siege, so they kidnapped the emperor and dozens of King Chen Liu and fled to Xiaopingjin.
The ministers all came out from Pingtang, and no one ran with them. Only Lu Zhi, the minister, rode on horseback on the river at night. Wang Yun sent Minggong from central Henan to follow Lu Zhi.
Mingong arrived and killed several people with his sword, while the rest jumped into the river and died.
The next day, the ministers and officials welcomed the emperor back to the palace, appointed Min Gong as the doctor, and granted the title of Marquis of Ting.
Dong Zhuo then deposed Emperor Ling, forced the Queen Mother to be killed, and killed Lord Wuyang. The He family died, and the Han Dynasty also fell into chaos.
The historian commented: Dou Wu and He Jin, as uncles, held the power of assisting the government. Inside the palace, they relied on the power of the Queen Mother to listen to the government, and outside they had favorable conditions for heroes to ride on the wind. Finally, they were defeated by the eunuchs, died in power, and were lamented by the world. Is it possible that they lacked intelligence but had more power?

summary:
summary line 3: He Jin hesitated, and Yuan Shao suggested summoning provincial generals like Dong Zhuo to threaten the court. Despite advice against this, He Jin agreed. The eunuchs, fearing for their lives, tricked their way back into the palace. When He Jin went to the palace to urge the Empress Dowager to act, the eunuchs ambushed and killed him. His subordinates then attacked the palace. Yuan Shao and others massacred the eunuchs, killing over two thousand. During the chaos, the eunuchs kidnapped the emperor and his brother, but were eventually killed. Dong Zhuo then deposed the emperor, killed the Empress Dowager, and the He family was destroyed, plunging the Han dynasty into chaos. The historian comments that both Dou Wu and He Jin, despite their power and favorable positions, were defeated by eunuchs due to a lack of wisdom and excessive reliance on power.

