Chunk 0: 
original: 
《诗》、《书》之言女德尚矣。
若夫贤妃助国君之政，哲妇隆家人之道，高士弘清淳之风，贞女亮明白之节，则其徽美未殊也，而世典咸漏焉。
故自中兴以后，综其成事，述为《列女篇》。
如马、邓、梁后，别见前纪；梁媳、李姬，各附家传。若斯之类，并不兼书。
余但搜次才行尤高秀者，不必专在一操而已。
勃海鲍宣妻者，桓氏之女也，字少君。
宣尝就少君父学，父奇其清苦，故以女妻之，装送资贿甚盛。
宣不悦，谓妻曰： 少君生富骄，习美饰，而吾实贫贱，不敢当礼。
妻曰： 大人以先生修德守约，故使贱妾侍执巾栉。
即奉承君子，唯命是从。 宣笑曰： 能如是，是吾志也。
妻乃悉归侍御服饰，更着短布裳，与宣共挽鹿车归乡里。
拜姑礼毕，提甕出汲，修行妇道，乡邦称之。
宣，哀帝时官至司隶校尉。
子永，中兴初为鲁郡太守。
永子昱从容问少君曰： 太夫人宁复识挽鹿车时不？
translation: 
"The Book of Songs" and "Shangshu" have discussed women's moral character for a long time.
As for the virtuous concubines who help the king handle political affairs, the wise women who are prosperous in running the family, the noble men who promote the honest and honest customs, and the chaste women who show their pure conduct, then their virtues are no different, but the records of this aspect are omitted in the classics of the past dynasties.
Therefore, since the ZTE, the existing deeds of women have been synthesized into "Lienv Pian".
Empress Ma, Empress Deng, and Empress Liang were separately recorded in the previous "Queen's Notes", and Liang's daughter-in-law and Li Ji were included in their respective family biographies. This situation will not be described again.
Others only search for people whose Chinese talents and conduct are particularly outstanding, and do not necessarily focus on the moral aspect.
Biography of Bao Xuan's Wife, Bohai Bao Xuan's wife, Huan's daughter, named Shaojun.
Bao Xuan once studied under Shaojun's father. His father thought that he was poor, so he married his daughter to him with a lot of dowry and wealth.
Bao Xuan was unhappy and said to his wife: "Young Master was born in a rich family. He is arrogant and accustomed to dressing up beautifully. But I am too poor and humble to receive such a gift."
The wife said: My master thinks that my husband is a good man and keeps his promise, so I make my concubine serve as a turban.
Since I am married to you, I will obey your arrangements in everything. Bao Xuan laughed and said: "This is my ambition."
His wife then returned all the imperial clothes, put on short cloth clothes, and returned to the countryside with Bao Xuan's deer cart.
After paying homage to my aunt, I took the urn to fetch water. She practiced women's ways, and people in her country praised her.
Bao Xuan, during the reign of Emperor Ai, became Sili Xiaowei.
His son Bao Yong served as the prefect of Lu County in the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty.
Bao Yong's son Bao Yu calmly asked the young gentleman: "Does Madam still remember what happened when the deer cart was pulled?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
对曰： 先姑有言： 存不忘亡，安不忘危。
吾焉敢忘乎！
永、昱已见前传。
太原王霸妻者，不知何氏之女也。
霸少立高节，光武时连征，不仕。
霸已见《逸人传》。
妻亦美志行。
初，霸与同郡令狐子伯为友，后子伯为楚相，而其子为郡功曹。
子伯乃令子奉书于霸，车马服从，雍容如也。
霸子时方耕于野，闻宾至，投耒而归，见令狐子，沮怍不能仰视。
霸目之，有愧容，客去而久卧不起。
妻怪问其故，始不肯告，妻请罪，而后言曰： 吾与子伯素不相若，向见其子容服甚光，举措有适，而我兒曹蓬发历齿，未知礼则，见客而有惭色。
父子恩深，不觉自失耳。
妻曰： 君少修清节，不顾荣禄。
今子伯之贵孰与君之高？
奈何忘宿志而惭兒女子乎！
霸屈起而笑曰： 有是哉！
translation: 
Answer: My late aunt has a saying: Don’t forget death when you are alive, don’t forget danger when you are safe.
How dare I forget?
Bao Yong and Bao Yu have already seen the prequel.
The Legend of Wang Ba's Wife, the wife of Taiyuan Wang Ba, is a girl from an unknown family.
When Wang Ba was a young man, he established high moral standards, and when he was powerful, he was repeatedly summoned but could not become an official.
Ba's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Yi Min".
My wife also has good intentions.
At first, Wang Ba became friends with Zibo, a fox from the same county. Later, Zibo became the prime minister of Chu, and his son became a meritorious official.
Zibo then sent his son to deliver a message to Wang Ba, with carriages, horses, clothing, and servants looking elegant and luxurious.
Ba's son was farming in the fields. When he heard that the guests were coming, he left his grass behind and came back. When he saw Linghu's son, he was so depressed and ashamed that he did not dare to look up at anyone.
Wang Ba felt ashamed when he saw it. The guest left and he couldn't get up for a long time.
The wife felt strange and asked why. At first he refused to say anything, but his wife apologized, and then said: "Zibo and I have always been different. Just now I saw his son's appearance and clothing are very glorious, and his behavior is very appropriate. But my son has sharp hair and sharp teeth, does not understand etiquette rules, and looks ashamed when meeting guests."
The love between father and son is so deep that I feel a little embarrassed.
My wife said: You should cultivate your integrity and disregard your honor and salary.
How can Zibo's nobility compare to your aloofness now?
Why did you forget your ambition and feel ashamed for your son?
Wang Ba stood up and smiled and said: Is there such a thing?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
遂共终身隐遁。
广汉姜诗妻者，同郡庞盛之女也。
诗事母至孝，妻奉顺尤笃。
母好饮江水，水去舍六七里，妻常溯流而汲。
后值风，不时得还，母渴，诗责而遣之。
妻乃寄止邻舍，昼夜纺绩，市珍羞，使邻母以意自遗其姑。
如是者久之，姑怪问邻母，邻母具对。
姑感惭呼还，恩养愈谨。
其子后因远汲溺死，妻恐姑哀伤，不敢言，而托以行学不在。
姑嗜鱼会，又不能独食，夫妇常力作供会，呼邻母共之。舍侧忽有涌泉，味如江水，每旦辄出双鲤鱼，常以供二母之膳。
赤眉散贼经诗里，弛兵而过，曰 惊大孝必触鬼神。
translation: 
So he lived in seclusion for the rest of his life.
Biography of Jiang Shi's Wife, Jiang Shi's wife in Guanghan, and the daughter of Pang Sheng in the same county.
Jiang Shi's mother was extremely filial, and her wife was even more submissive.
My mother likes to drink from the river. The water is six or seven miles away from home, and my wife often goes against the current to fetch water.
Later, there was a wind and she could not return home on time. Her mother was thirsty, so Jiang Shi blamed his wife and sent her home.
The wife then stayed in the neighbor's house, spinning crops day and night, buying some good vegetables, and asking the neighbor's mother to give them to her mother-in-law as she wished.
After doing this for a long time, my mother-in-law felt strange and asked her neighbor's mother, who told her the truth.
The mother-in-law felt ashamed and called her back, and Ennuang became even more diligent.
Later, her son drowned while fetching water from a distant place. The wife was afraid that her mother-in-law would be sad and did not dare to tell him about it, so she pretended that she was not at home because she had gone to school.
The mother-in-law likes to eat fish, but she cannot eat it alone. The couple often works hard to provide for the fish and asks the neighboring mothers to eat together. Suddenly there is a spring next to the house, with the same taste as river water. A pair of carp appears every morning, which is often used to feed the two mothers-in-law.
The skirmishers of the Red Eyebrow Army passed by Jiang Shi's hometown and said: "To disturb a filial person will definitely offend the ghosts and gods."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
时岁荒，贼乃遗诗米肉，受而埋之，比落蒙其安全。
永平三年，察孝廉，显宗诏曰： 大孝入朝，凡诸举者一听平之。
由是皆拜郎中。
诗寻除江阳令，卒于官。
所居治，乡人为立祀。
沛郡周郁妻者，同郡赵孝之女也，字阿。
少习仪训，闲于妇道，而郁骄淫轻躁，多行无礼。
郁父伟谓阿曰： 新妇贤者女，当以道匡夫。
郁之不改，新妇过也。
阿拜而受命，退谓左右曰： 我无樊、卫二姬之行，故君以责我。我言而不用，君必谓我不奉教令，则罪在我矣。
若言而见用，是为子违父而从妇，则罪在彼矣。
生如此，亦何聊哉！
乃自杀。
莫不伤之。
translation: 
At that time, there was a famine, so the thief sent some rice and meat to Jiang Shi. Jiang Shi accepted it and buried it, and the neighboring vassal was also safe.
In the third year of Yongping, Xiaolian was inspected, and Xianzong issued an edict: "When a person of great filial piety enters the court, all whistleblowers will be punished by him."
From then on, they all became doctors.
Jiang Shi was soon appointed Jiangyin Order and died in his official position.
Wherever he lives, the villagers set up sacrifices for him.
Biography of Zhou Yu's wife, Zhou Yu's wife in Pei County, daughter of Zhao Xiao in the same county, named A.
When he was young, he studied ancient etiquette and became accustomed to the ways of women. However, Zhou Yu was proud, lazy, impatient, and often did rude things.
Zhou Yu's father, Zhou Wei, said to Zhao A: The bride is the daughter of a wise man and should correct her husband with the right way.
If Zhou Yu doesn't correct his mistakes, it's the bride's fault.
After Zhao Abai accepted the order, he stepped back and said to the people around him: I don't have the character of Fan Ji of Chu State or Wei Ji of Qi State, so my father-in-law blames me. If I say something but he doesn't listen, my father-in-law will say that I don't follow the orders, so the fault is mine.
If it is said and it works, it means that the son disobeys his father and obeys the woman, and then the sin is his.
What’s the point of life like this!
So he committed suicide.
People at the time did not sympathize with her.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
扶风曹世叔妻者，同郡班彪之女也，名昭，字惠班，一名姬。博学高才。
世叔早卒，有节行法度。
兄固著《汉书》，其八表及《天文志》未及竟而卒，和帝诏昭就东观臧书阁踵而成之。
帝数召入宫，令皇后诸贵人师事焉，号曰大家。每有贡献异物，辄诏大家作赋颂。
及邓太后临朝，与闻政事。
以出入之勤，特封子成关内侯，官至齐相。
时《汉书》始出，多未能通者，同郡马融伏于阁下，从昭受读，后又诏融兄续继昭成之。
永初中，太后兄大将军邓骘以母忧，上书乞身，太后不欲许，以问昭。昭因上疏曰：伏惟皇太后陛下，躬盛德之美，隆唐、虞之政，辟四门而开四聪，采狂夫之瞽言，纳刍荛之谋虑。
translation: 
According to the biography of Cao Shishu's wife in Fufeng, Cao Shishu's wife was the daughter of Ban Biao from the same county. His name is Zhao, his courtesy name is Huiban, and he is also known as Ji. He is knowledgeable and talented.
Uncle Shi died early, but Ban Zhao had good moral integrity and behaved according to etiquette.
His elder brother Ban Gu was the author of the "Book of Han", but he died before finishing the Eight Tables and "Tianwen Zhi". Emperor He ordered Ban Zhao to go to the Dongguan Library to continue writing it.
The emperor summoned Zhao to the palace many times, and asked the queen and other nobles to worship Ban Zhao as their teacher, and called him "Everyone". Whenever valuable items from various places contributed to Ban Zhao, he asked everyone to write poems to praise him.
When Empress Dowager Deng came to court to listen to politics, she asked Ban Zhao to participate in the handling of political affairs.
Thinking that Ban Zhao was very diligent, he made an exception and made Ban Zhao's son Cao a Marquis of Guannei, and he became the prime minister of Qi.
At that time, the "Book of Han" had just come out, and many people could not read it. Ma Rong from the same county worshiped you and learned from Ban Zhao to read the "Book of Han". Later, the emperor issued an edict asking Ma Rong's brother Ma Xu to finish the book after Ban Zhao.
During the Yongchu period, the Queen Mother's brother, General Deng Zhi, requested to retire due to the death of his mother. The Queen Mother did not intend to approve it and asked Ban Zhao. Ban Zhao went to Shudao and said: "I believe that Her Majesty the Queen Mother has perfect moral character. She conducted the affairs of the Tang Dynasty and Yu-like times, opened up her opinions, listened to the advice of mad men and blind old men, and accepted the opinions of villagers in the mountains and wild villages."


Chunk 5: 
original: 
妾昭得以愚朽，身当盛明，敢不披露肝胆，以效万一！
妾闻谦让之风，德莫大焉，故典坟述美，神祇降福。
昔夷、齐去国，天下服其廉高；太伯违邠，孔子称为三让。
所以光昭令德，扬名于后世者也。
《论语》曰： 能以礼让为国，于从政乎何有！
由是言之，推让之诚，其致远矣。
今四舅深执忠孝，引身自退，而以方垂未静，拒而不许；如后有毫毛加于今日，诚恐推让之名不可再得。
缘见逮及，故敢昧死竭其愚情。
自知言不足采，以示虫蚁之赤心。
太后从而许之。于是骘等各还里第焉。
作《女诫》七篇，有助内训。
其辞曰：鄙人愚暗，受性不敏，蒙先君之余宠，赖母师之典训。
年十有四，执箕帚于曹氏，于今四十余载矣。
translation: 
I am a foolish concubine who lives in the age of sage and dare not speak boldly to repay the emperor's kindness just in case.
I heard that humility has been a very high virtue since ancient times. Therefore, ancient books record that gods send blessings.
Once upon a time, the brothers Boyi and Shuqi gave up their country, and the world admired their high style. The Taibo gave up his throne to his younger brother, and Confucius praised them again and again.
This is the reason why one has noble moral character and is famous for future generations.
The Analects of Confucius says: If you can govern the country with courtesy, what difficulties will it face in politics?
From this point of view, the meaning of giving in is very far-reaching.
Now the Fourth Uncle General insists on the principle of loyalty and filial piety and requests to retire, but Your Majesty considers that the border areas are still uneasy and refuses to agree. If today's virtues are covered up due to some small mistakes in the future, I am afraid that the reputation of resignation will never be achieved again.
This is a villain's opinion, and I dare to express it at my own risk.
I know that words are not worth mentioning, they are just a red heart for insects and ants.
The Queen Mother agreed, so Deng Zhi and others retired and returned home.
Ban Zhao wrote seven chapters of "Female Commandments", which were very helpful for the education of women in the palace.
The seven chapters are: humility first, husband and wife second, respect and caution third, wifely behavior fourth, concentration fifth, obedience sixth, and uncles and sisters seventh.
After reading it, Ma Rong thought it was very good and asked his wife and daughter to learn from it. Cao Fengsheng, the sister of Ban Zhao's husband Cao Shishu, was also talented. She disagreed with the "Seven Commandments" and wrote a book to refute it, and her diction was also impressive.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
战战兢兢，常惧绌辱，以增父母之羞，以益中外之累。
夙夜劬心，勤不告劳，而今而后，乃知免耳。吾性疏顽，教道无素，恒恐子穀负辱清朝。
圣恩横加，猥赐金紫，实非鄙人庶几所望也。
男能自谋矣，吾不复以为忧也。但伤诸女方当适人，而不渐训诲，不闻妇礼，惧失容它门，取耻宗族。
吾今疾在沈滞，性命无常，念汝曹如此，每用惆怅。
间作《女诫》七章，愿诸女各写一通，庶有补益，裨助汝身。
去矣，其勖勉之！
卑弱第一。古者生女三日，卧之床下，弄之瓦砖，而斋告焉。
卧之床下，明其卑弱，主下人也。
translation: 
Ban Zhao died in his seventies. The Empress Dowager expressed her condolences in plain clothes and sent envoys to supervise Ban Zhao's funeral.
Ban Zhao wrote a total of sixteen articles including fuss, odes, inscriptions, poems, questions, notes, laments, books, treatises, epigraphs, and testaments. Her daughter-in-law Ding collected them together for her and wrote "Everyone's Praise" to praise her. The Biography of Leyangzi’s Wife, Henan Leyangzi’s wife is from an unknown family.
Yangzi once traveled abroad and picked up a piece of gold lost by someone else. He came back and gave it to his wife.
The wife said: I heard that people with lofty ideals will not drink water from stolen springs, and honest people will not eat food given by others with contempt, let alone pick up other people's gold to ruin their reputation?
Yangzi was very ashamed after hearing this, so he left the gold in the wild and went to a distant place to find a teacher to learn from. After studying for a year, my wife knelt down and asked why. Yangzi said: I have been away for a long time and I miss home. There is no other reason.
The wife then walked to the loom with a knife and said: These fabrics come from silkworm cocoons and are woven with shuttles. When added up, they become an inch, and when added up, they become a foot.
If you cut these fabrics, all your efforts will be wasted and time will be wasted.
When you study abroad, you should learn some knowledge you didn't know before every day to achieve virtue. What's the difference between coming back and cutting these fabrics?
Yangzi was deeply moved after hearing this, and went back to complete his studies. He didn't go home for seven years.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
弄之瓦砖，明其习劳，主执勤也。
斋告先君，明当主继祭祀也。
三者盖女人之常道，礼法之典教矣。
谦让恭敬，先人后己，有善莫名，有恶莫辞，忍辱含垢，常若畏惧，是谓卑弱下人也。
晚寝早作，勿惮夙夜，执务私事，不辞剧易，所作必成，手迹整理，是谓执勤也。
正色端操，以事夫主，清静自守，无好戏笑，洁齐酒食，以供祖宗，是谓继祭祀也。三者苟备，而患名称之不闻，黜辱之在身，未之见也。
三者苟失之，何名称之可闻，黜辱之可远哉！
夫妇第二。
夫妇之道，参配阴阳，通达神明，信天地之弘义，人伦之大节也。
translation: 
The wife often diligently supports her mother-in-law and also gives some things to Yangzi who is far away from home.
Once, a chicken from another family strayed into her garden. My mother-in-law secretly killed the chicken and cooked it. My wife shed tears when she refused to eat the chicken.
When the mother-in-law asked why, the wife said: I feel sorry that my family is so poor that I let you eat other people's chicken.
After hearing this, the mother-in-law threw away the chicken. Later, the robbers wanted to insult Yangzi's wife, so they first kidnapped her mother-in-law. Yangzi's wife knew about it and came out with a knife. The robber said: Put down the knife and obey me to save your life. If you don't obey me, I will kill your mother-in-law.
Yangzi's wife raised her head and sighed to the sky. She cut her neck with a knife and died. The robbers did not kill her mother-in-law. When the prefect heard about this, he immediately killed the robbers, rewarded Yangzi's wife with some silk cloth, buried her with etiquette, and called her "Zhenyi".
Biography of Cheng Wenju's wife, Cheng Wenju's wife in Hanzhong, sister of Li Fa from the same county.
The courtesy name is Mu Jiang. He has two sons and his ex-wife has four sons.
Wen Ju died in his official position while serving as an order for peace.
The four sons thought their mother was their stepmother, and their hatred grew day by day. However, Mu Jiang was kind and gentle, and raised her more devotedly, providing twice as much food, clothing, and money as her biological sons. Someone said to the mother: The four children are very unfilial, why not let them live in another place to alienate them?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
是以《礼》贵男女之际，《诗》著《关睢》之义。
由斯言之，不可不重也。
夫不贤，则无以御妇；妇不贤，则无以事夫。
夫不御妇，则威仪废缺；妇不事夫，则义理堕阙。方斯二事，其用一也。
察今之君子，徒知妻妇之不可不御，威仪之不可不整，故训其男，检以书传。
殊不知夫主之不可不事，礼义之不可不存也。
但教男而不教女，不亦蔽于彼此之数乎！
《礼》，八岁始教之书，十五而至于学矣。
独不可依此以为则哉！
敬慎第三。阴阳殊性，男女异行。
阳以刚为德，阴以柔为用，男以强为贵，女以弱为美。
translation: 
Answer: I am using righteousness to guide them and let them change for the better.
Later, the eldest son of his ex-wife, Cheng Xing, became seriously ill. The stepmother felt uneasy and personally prepared the medicine and meals. She was extremely kind.
Cheng Xing was ill for a long time before he recovered, so he called his three younger brothers and said: "My stepmother is kind and kind, which comes from instinct." We brothers don't know how to be filial and have the hearts of animals.
Although maternal love is stronger, our sins are also deeper. So he sent his three younger brothers to Nanzheng Prison to explain his mother's kindness and his own faults, and asked for punishment.
The county magistrate reported to the county warden, who commended his mother, exempted his family from serving as a servant, sent his four sons home, and allowed them to change their ways. From then on, their discipline became clearer and they all became good men.
Mu Jiangnian died in his eighties. Before he died, he told his sons: My younger brother Bodu is a wise and understanding man. The thin burial he mentioned has a profound meaning.
There are also some dying decrees from the previous dynasty. They are all decrees of the sages. I ask you to abide by them and not be the same as the customs and increase my burden.
All the sons did as he was told. The biography of the filial daughter Cao E, the filial daughter Cao E, was born in Shangyu, Kuaiji.
His father, Cao Xu, could play strings, sing, and did witchcraft.
On May 5, the second year of Han'an, Yu Xianjiang danced against the current to welcome the gods and drowned. His body was not found.
When Cao E was just fourteen years old, she cried along the river day and night. Seventeen days later, she threw herself into the river and died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
故鄙谚有云： 生男如狼，犹恐其尪；生女如鼠，犹恐其虎。
然则修身莫若敬，避强莫若顺。
故曰敬顺之道，妇人之大礼也。
夫敬非它，持久之谓也；夫顺非它，宽裕之谓也。
持久者，知止足也；宽裕者，尚恭下也。
夫妇之好，终身不离。
房室周旋，遂生媟黩。
媟黩既生，语言过矣。
语言既过，纵恣必作。
纵恣既作，则侮夫之心生矣。此由于不知止足者也。
translation: 
In the first year of Yuanjia, the county magistrate buried Cao E next to Jiangnan Road and erected a monument in her honor. Biography of Wu Xusheng's wife, Wu Xusheng's wife, the daughter of the Lu family, named Rong. When Wu Xusheng was young, he was fond of gambling and neglected his moral conduct. Lu Rong often did housework to support his mother-in-law.
I persuaded my husband to study several times, and every time he found something wrong, I cried to persuade him.
Lu Rong's father hated his son-in-law for not living up to expectations, so he asked his daughter to remarry someone else. Lu Rong sighed: This is how life should be, not divorce.
Still refused to go home. Wu Xusheng was grateful and encouraged himself, so he went far away to study with a teacher, and later became famous. Soon he was recruited by Honshu and went to Shouchun. He was killed by bandits on the way.
The governor Yin Yao caught the thieves and found their whereabouts. Lu Rong was on the way to attend the funeral. After hearing the news, he went to the state and asked to see the enemy before he was willing to do so. Yin Yao agreed.
Lu Rong then cut off his head with his own hands as a sacrifice to her husband's spirit.
Later, the county was attacked by bandits who wanted to invade her. Lu Rong jumped over the wall to escape, but the bandits chased her with swords drawn.
The thief said: If you obey me, you will live; if you don't obey, I will die.
Lu Rong said: I will never be insulted by robbers.
So the thief killed her. It was a stormy day with thunder and lightning. The thieves kowtowed in fear and apologized, so they buried Lu Rong. Biography of Yuan Wei's Wife: Yuan Wei's wife from Runan was the daughter of Fufeng Ma Rong, named Lun.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
夫事有曲直，言有是非。
直者不能不争，曲者不能不讼。
讼争既施，则有忿怒之事矣。
此由于不尚恭下者也。
侮夫不节，谴呵从之；忿怒不止，楚挞从之。
夫为夫妇者，义以和亲，恩以好合，楚挞既行，何义之存？
谴呵既宣，何恩之有？恩义俱废，夫妇离矣。
妇行第四。女有四行，一曰妇德，二曰妇言，三曰妇容，四曰妇功。
夫云妇德，不必才明绝异也；妇言，不必辩口利辞也；妇容，不必颜色美丽也；妇功，不必工巧过人也。清闲贞静，守节整齐，行己有耻，动静有法，是谓妇德。
择辞而说，不道恶语，时然后言，不厌于人，是谓妇言。
盥浣尘秽，服饰鲜洁，沐浴以时，身不垢辱，是谓妇容。
专心纺绩，不好戏笑，洁齐酒食，以奉宾客，是谓妇功。此四者，女人之大德，而不可乏之者也。
translation: 
Yuan Wei's deeds have been revealed in the prequel. Mullen has little eloquence.
Ma Rong comes from a wealthy family and has a lot of dowry materials.
When it was time for her wedding, Yuan Wei asked her: "It's okay for a woman to just carry a dustpan and broom. Why should she dress up too beautifully?"
He replied: My dear relatives love me so much that I dare not go against my orders.
If you want to admire the noble moral character of Bao Xuan and Liang Hong, I will also ask you to follow Shaojun and Meng Guang.
Yuan Wei added: "My dear brother held a wedding, and the world thought it was a joke." Your sister is not married yet. Is it okay for you to get married first? Answer: My sister has noble moral character and special appearance. She has not found a good spouse, unlike some despicable people who just find someone at random.
He also asked: "Your father is the governor of Nanjun. He has profound knowledge and his articles have become the most popular in the world. However, his position is often damaged by goods and wealth. Why?"
Answer: Confucius, the great sage, was inevitably destroyed by his uncle Wushu; Zilu, the great sage, was also accused by Gong Boliao. My father should have been in this situation.
Yuan Wei remained silent and could not make his wife understand. The people listening outside the tent felt ashamed. Yuan Wei was favored at that time, and Ma Lun was also famous.
He died in his sixties.
Ma Lun's sister Ma Zhi is also talented and righteous. When I was young, I was bereaved, but I kept feeling it in my heart for a long time, so I wrote "Shen Qing Fu".
According to the legend of Pang Ao's mother, Pang Ao's mother in Jiuquan is the daughter of Zhao.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
然为之甚易，唯在存心耳。古人有言： 仁远乎哉？我欲仁，而仁斯至矣。
此之谓也。专心第五。
《礼》，夫有再娶之义，妇无二适之文，故曰夫者天也。
天固不可逃，夫固不可离也。
行违神祇，天则罚之；礼义有愆，夫则薄之。
故《女宪》曰： 得意一人，是谓永毕；失意一人，是谓永讫。
由斯言之，夫不可不求其心。
然所求者，亦非谓佞媚苟亲也，固莫若专心正色。礼义居洁，耳无涂听，目无邪视，出无冶容，入无废饰，无聚会群辈，无看视门户，此则谓专心正色矣。
若夫动静轻脱，视听陕输，入则乱发坏形，出则窈窕作态，说所不当道，观所不当视，此谓不能专心正色矣。
translation: 
The word E. His father was killed by people from the same county, and the three Zhao E brothers all died of illness at that time. The enemy was happy and congratulated himself, thinking that no one would take revenge.
Zhao E was secretly very angry, so she secretly prepared weapons and often rode in a curtained carriage to wait for her enemies.
I couldn't do it for more than ten years.
Later, when they met in Duting, they assassinated their enemy.
So he surrendered to the county. He said: My father's revenge has been avenged, and I beg to be punished.
Yin Jia, the head of Lu, thought that Zhao E was very loyal, so he took off his seal and wanted to escape with her. Zhao E refused to leave and said: "It is your duty as a concubine to hold resentment in your heart to the point of death. It is your common sense to settle crimes and try cases." How dare you live an ignoble existence and violate the law?
Later, he was pardoned and exempted from the death penalty. The state and county commended her village.
Taichang Zhang Huan sighed in praise and treated her with the gift of tying silk. Biography of Liu Changqing's Wife: The wife of Liu Changqing in Pei County and the daughter of Huan Luan in the same county. A boy was born, who was just five years old, and the chief minister died. His wife was far away from suspicion and refused to return to her parents' home.
When the son reached the age of fifteen, he died again. The wife considered that she would inevitably marry again, so she punished her ears in advance to show her determination. The women of the same clan all sympathized with her and said: "Your family has no other intentions. If so, you can still express your sincerity through your sister. Why should you value your righteousness at the expense of your own body?"


Chunk 12: 
original: 
曲从第六。
夫 得意一人，是谓永华；失意一人，是谓永讫 ，欲人定志专心之言也。
舅姑之心，岂当可失哉？
物有以恩自离者，亦有以义自破者也。
夫虽云爱，舅姑云非，此所谓以义自破者也。
然则舅姑之心奈何？
固莫尚于曲从矣。姑云不尔而是，固宜从令；姑云尔而非，犹宜顺命。
勿得违戾是非，争分曲直。此则所谓曲从矣。
故《女宪》曰： 妇如影响，焉不可赏！
和叔妹第七。妇人之得意于夫主，由舅姑之爱已也；舅姑之爱已，由叔妹之誉已也。
由此言之，我臧否誉毁，一由叔妹，叔妹之心，复不可失也。
translation: 
Answer: In the past, I was the emperor of Wu Geng. My knowledge was taught by Confucianists, and I was so noble that I became the emperor's teacher.
Since the fifth watch, throughout the ages, men have been known for their loyalty and filial piety, while women have been known for their chastity and obedience. "The Book of Songs" says: There is no such thing as an ancestor, and Yu Jue is virtuous.
Therefore, I punished myself in advance to show my mood.
Wang Ji, the prime minister of Pei, reported her noble character and showed off her family name. She was known as "Xingyi Huanli". If there were sacrifices in the county, she would definitely send her the remaining meat.
According to the biography of Huangfu Gui's wife, An Ding Huangfu Gui's wife was an unknown surname.
After Huangfugui's first wife died, he married her again.
His wife can write articles and cursive script, and often works as secretary for Huangfu Gui. Everyone is amazed by her talent.
When Huangfu Gui died, his wife was still young and beautiful.
Later, when Dong Zhuo became prime minister, he heard that his wife was beautiful, so he used a hundred floats, twenty horses, and a lot of money from slaves as betrothal gifts to marry her.
Gui's wife went to Dong Zhuo in plain clothes, knelt down and stated her difficulties, speaking very sadly. Dong Zhuo ordered his servants to draw their steel swords and surround him, and said: My prestige will make the people of the world surrender. Can it not work on a woman like you? Gui's wife knew that she could not escape death, so she stood up and cursed loudly: "You are a wild bastard, and you have harmed many people in the world. Isn't that enough?"
The integrity of my ancestors is known to the whole world. My husband, Huangfu, is a versatile man in both civil and military affairs. He was a loyal minister of the Han Dynasty. Weren't you his pawn in the past?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
皆莫知叔妹之不可失，而不能和之以求亲，其蔽也哉！自非圣人，鲜能无过！故颜子贵于能改，仲尼嘉其不贰，而况妇人者也！
虽以贤女之行，聪哲之性，其能备乎！
是故室人和则谤掩，外内离则恶扬。
此必然之势也。《易》曰： 二人同心，其利断金。
同心之言，其臭如兰。
此之谓也。
夫嫂妹者，体敌而尊，恩疏而义亲。
若淑媛谦顺之人，则能依义以笃好，崇恩以结援，使徽美显章，而瑕过隐塞，舅姑矜善，而夫主嘉美，声誉曜于邑邻，休光延于父母。
若夫蠢愚之人，于嫂则托名以自高，于妹则因宠以骄盈。骄盈既施，何和之有！
恩义既乖，何誉之臻！
translation: 
How dare you do something indecent in front of your wife? Dong Zhuo then pushed the cart into the court, hung the woman's head on the yoke of the cart, and asked his slaves to beat her with whips and sticks. Huangfu Gui's wife said to the man holding the stick: "Why don't you hit him hard?" The sooner you die, the better.
So he was beaten to death under the car. Later generations drew her image and inscribed it with the word "Li Zong". The Biography of Yin Yu's Wife, the wife of Yin Yu in Nanyang, the daughter of Xun Shuang in Yingchuan. Ming Cai, whose courtesy name is Nu Xun, is smart and talented.
At the age of seventeen, she married into the Yin family. A daughter was born at the age of nineteen, and Yin Yu died.
Xun Cai was still young at the time and was often worried that her family would force her to remarry, so she defended herself very resolutely.
Later, when Guo Yi, a native of the same county, lost his wife, Xun Shuang promised Cai Cai to him, so he falsely claimed that he was seriously ill and called Cai home.
Xun Cai had no choice but to go home and vowed his determination with a knife in his hand.
Xun Shuang ordered Fu's maid to snatch her knife and help her get into the car. He was also worried that she would be angry and was very defensive.
When the daughter arrived at Guo's house, she pretended to be happy and said to the people around her: "I was determined to die on the same acupuncture point as my husband Yin Yu, but I was forced by my family to come here. What should I do if I can't fulfill my wish?" So he ordered the servant girl to build four lanterns and dress up. Guo Yi came in and met each other, and they talked together without stopping.
Guo Yi was in awe of her, so he didn't dare to force her to get married. He didn't come out until dawn. Xun Cai then ordered everyone to prepare a bath. After entering the bathroom, he closed the door, ordered the waiter to get out of the way, and wrote on the door in pink: "The body returns to the grave."  The word Yin was not written, and he was afraid that someone would come, so he hanged himself with his clothes belt.
The people around her didn't take it seriously. When they found out she had passed away, people felt pity for her at that time.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
是以美隐而过宣，姑忿而夫愠，毁訾布于中外，耻辱集于厥身，进增父母之羞，退益君子之累。
斯乃荣辱之本，而显否之基也。
可不慎哉！然则求叔妹之心，固莫尚于谦顺矣。
谦则德之柄，顺则妇之行。
凡斯二者，足以和矣。
《诗》云： 在彼无恶，在此无射。
其斯之谓也。
马融善之，令妻女习焉。
昭女妹曹丰生，亦有才惠，为书以难之，辞有可观。
昭年七十余卒，皇太后素服举哀，使者监护丧事。
所著赋、颂、铭、诔、问、注、哀辞、书、论、上疏、遗令，凡十六篇。子妇丁氏为撰集之，又作《大家赞》焉。
河南乐羊子之妻者，不知何氏之女也。
translation: 
According to the biography of Shengdao's wife, Qian was the wife of Shengdao and the daughter of the Zhao family in the same county.
The word Yuanjiang. In the fifth year of Jian'an, the Yizhou tribe was in chaos. Shengdao gathered a crowd to raise troops. However, the matter failed and the couple was arrested and sentenced to death.
Yuanjiang sued Shengdao in the evening and said: The law has certain penalties and there will be no hope of survival. You can escape quickly and establish a family. I will stay in prison and bear the responsibility for your crimes.
Shengdao didn't make up his mind, so Yuanjiang released Shengdao's shackles and helped him get some food.
His son Sheng Xiang was five years old at the time, so Sheng Dao took him and fled.
Yuanjiang took the place of her husband and held the night, coping well. It was estimated that Shengdao had gone far away, so he told the jailer the truth and was killed when the time came.
Shengdao and his son met Amnesty and returned home.
Shengdao was grateful for her loyalty and never married again. The filial daughter's uncle preceded the male, the filial daughter's uncle preceded the male, Qianwei was born.
His father, Uncle Nihe, was a county meritorious official in the early years of Yongjian. The county magistrate sent Ni and a letter of worship to see the governor of Bajun. The boat fell into the turbulent water and drowned. The zombies did not return home.
Uncle Xianxiong was filled with resentment and grief. He cried day and night and did not want to live. He often thought of drowning himself.
The two children were a few years old, a boy and a girl. Xiong made a bag each, filled it with beads and tied it to the child. He said goodbye several times. Every time the family tried to prevent her, but after more than a hundred days they relaxed a little, Xiong took a small boat and cried at the place where his father fell into the water. Then he threw himself into the water and died. My younger brother, Shuxian, dreamed that night that his sister told him: Stay back for six days and emerge from the water at the same time as your father. When the time came, I waited, and sure enough, I was floating on the river with my father. The counties commended him, erected monuments in his honour, and painted his portrait.
According to the biography of Dong Si's wife, Chen Liu, Dong Si's wife, was the daughter of Cai Yong from the same county. Her name was Yan and her courtesy name was Wenji.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
羊子尝行路，得遗金一饼，还以与妻，妻曰： 妾闻志士不饮盗泉之水，廉者不受嗟来之食，况拾遗求利，以污其行乎！
羊子大惭，乃捐金于野，而远寻师学。
一年来归，妻跪问其故。
羊子曰： 久行怀思，无它异也。
妻乃引刀趋机而言曰： 此织生自蚕茧，成于机杼，一而累，以至于寸，累寸不己，遂成丈匹。今若断斯织也，则捐失成功，稽废时日。
夫子积学，当日知其所亡，以就懿德。
若中道而归，何异断斯织乎？
羊子感其言，复还终业，遂七年不反。
妻常躬勤养姑，又远馈羊子。
尝有它舍鸡谬入园中，姑盗杀而食之，妻对鸡不餐而泣。
姑怪问其故。妻曰： 自伤居贫，使食有它肉。
姑竟弃之。
后盗欲有犯妻者，乃先劫其姑。
妻闻，操刀而出。
盗人曰： 释汝刀从我者可全，不从我者，则杀汝姑。
妻仰天而叹，举刀刎颈而死。
盗亦不杀其姑。
太守闻之，即捕杀贼盗，而赐妻缣帛，以礼葬之，号曰 贞义 。
汉中程文矩妻者，同郡李法之姊也，字穆姜。
有二男，而前妻四子。
文矩为安众令，丧于官。
translation: 
He is knowledgeable, talented and eloquent.
He also knows the music. First married to Wei Zhongdao of Hedong. After her husband died and she had no son, she returned to her natal family. During the Xingping period, the world was in chaos.
Wenji was kidnapped by Hu Qi and married to King Zuoxian of the Southern Huns.
In the twelfth year of the Xiongnu's reign, two sons were born. Cao Cao was good friends with Cai Yong in the past and felt sorry for Cai Yong's lack of heirs, so he sent an envoy to redeem Ji Wenji with a golden jade and marry her to Dong Si.
Dong Si served as the captain of the field and committed a capital crime. Wen Ji went to Cao Cao to ask for pardon. At that time, some high-ranking officials and envoys from distant places were present. Cao Cao said to the guests: "Cai Bojie's daughter is outside the door. Let me introduce her to you now." When Wen Ji came in, with disheveled hair and bare feet, she kowtowed to apologize. She spoke clearly and expressed sadness.
Everyone changed their colors after hearing this. Cao Cao said: The situation is indeed pitiful, but the order has been issued, what should we do?
Wen Ji said: "Your old man has tens of thousands of horses in his stable and as many soldiers as a forest. Why don't you send a fast horse quickly to recover the documents and save the dying life?"
Cao Cao was so moved that he withdrew his order and spared Dong Si the death penalty.
The weather was cold at that time, so Wenji was given a headscarf, shoes, socks and other items.
Cao Cao then asked Cai Wenji: "I heard that your family used to have many ancient books. Can you still remember some of them?"
Wenji said: My father gave me more than 4,000 volumes of ancient books in the past, but because of the exile and the devastation of the people, not a single bit was left.
Now I can recite only about 400 pieces.
Cao Cao said: I will now send ten scribes to your house to copy it.
Wen Ji said: "I heard that the boundaries between men and women are very strict, and according to etiquette, they cannot teach each other.
Please give me some pen and paper. Cursive writing will do. So he copied the book and sent it to Cao Cao, without missing any words.
Later, Wen Ji was very sad about Luan Li's experience. She recalled the past and wrote two poems "Sorrow and Indignation". The first one is as follows:
The Han Dynasty's political power fell, and Dong Zhuo destroyed the natural order.
He plotted to usurp the throne and killed Zhongliang first. He forced Emperor Xian to move the capital and falsely conveyed the imperial edict to Chang'an.
Troops were raised everywhere in the country, all wanting to attack Ou Xiang. Dong Zhuo led his troops eastwards, their golden armor shining brightly.
The soldiers in the Central Plains are cowardly, and most of the troops belong to Hu Qiang.
Hu soldiers occupied the city and faced no resistance.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
四子以母非所生，憎毁日积，而穆姜慈爱温仁，抚字益隆，衣食资供，皆兼倍所生。或谓母曰： 四子不孝甚矣，何不别居以远之？ 对曰： 吾方以义相导，使其自迁善也。
及前妻长子兴遇疾困笃，母恻隐自然，亲调药膳，恩情笃密。
兴疾久乃瘳，于是呼三弟谓曰： 继母慈仁，出自天受。
吾兄弟不识恩养，禽兽其心。虽母道益隆，我曹过恶亦已深矣！
遂将三弟诣南郑狱，陈母之德，状己之过，乞就刑辟。
县言之于郡，郡守表异其母，蠲除家徭，遣散四子，许以修革。
自后训导愈明，并为良士。
穆姜年八十余卒。
临终敕诸子曰： 吾弟伯度，智达士也。
所论薄葬，其义至矣。
又临亡遗令，贤圣法也。
令汝曹遵承，勿与俗同，增吾之累。
诸子奉行焉。
孝女曹娥者，会稽上虞人也。
父盱，能弦歌，为巫祝。
translation: 
He kills without blinking an eye, and his corpses are strewn along the roadside.
A man's head hangs beside the horse, and a girl is dragged behind the horse. Long drive west to enter the Pass, no matter how long the road is. Looking back, the old days are far behind, and the liver and spleen have rotted away.
Thousands were plundered, and parents and wives were separated. Some of their flesh and blood were captured and dared not speak out when they met.
Anyone who violates Hu's wishes will be severely punished. The handle of the knife is in my hand, and I can take your head at any time.
Whoever dares to cherish life can only bear to be beaten and scolded. Sometimes the whippings are mixed, and the poisonous pain makes people cry.
Walking and howling in the morning, weeping and mourning at night. It's really hard to die, and it's easier said than done to live.
Oh my god, what's my fault, I have suffered such a disaster.
The border areas are different from those in China. Yeyao people don’t know anything about arts and science.
The sky is filled with frost and snow, and the north wind rises again on spring nights. The strong wind blew my clothes and blew into my ears.
Thinking of my parents and relatives, I sighed endlessly.
I was very happy when I heard that a visitor was coming.
I quickly inquired about the news, but unfortunately I was not from the same village. Suddenly, joy fell from the sky, and flesh and blood came to welcome me.
I'm glad I got away, but I'm sorry I abandoned my son.
Blood, flesh and blood, heart and soul, we will never see each other again. Life and death are separated forever from now on, and mother and son cannot bear to be separated.
My son held my neck and asked where my mother was.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
汉安二年五月五日，于县江溯涛婆娑迎神，溺死，不得尸骸。
娥年十四，乃沿江号哭，昼夜不绝声，旬有七日，遂投江而死。
至元嘉元年，县长度尚改葬娥于江南道傍，为立碑焉。
吴许升妻者，吕氏之女也，字荣。
升少为博徒，不理操行，荣尝躬勤家业，以奉养其姑。
数劝升修学，每有不善，辄流涕进规。
荣父积忿疾升，乃呼荣欲改嫁之。
荣叹曰： 命之所遭，义无离贰！
终不肯归。
升感激自厉，乃寻师远学，遂以成名。
寻被本州辟命，行至寿春，道为盗所害。
刺史尹耀捕盗得之。
荣迎丧于路，闻而诣州，请甘心仇人。
耀听之。
荣乃手断其头，以祭升灵。
后郡遭寇贼，贼欲犯之，荣逾垣走，贼拔刀追之。
贼曰： 从我则生，不从我则死。
荣曰： 义不以身受辱寇虏也！
遂杀之。
是日疾风暴雨，雷电晦冥，贼惶惧叩头谢罪，乃殡葬之。
汝南袁隗妻者，扶风马融之女也，字伦。
隗已见前传。
translation: 
Others say that my mother is about to leave and when will we be reunited again. My mother usually loves me, why is she not loving me today? We are underage, why doesn’t mother think twice? Seeing this scene, I was heartbroken and confused.
While crying, I touched it with my hands, and suddenly hesitated before leaving. Look at my traveling companions, coming to say goodbye to me.
I admired that I survived alone, and my cries were terrifying. The horse cannot stand still, and the wheel forgets to turn.
Viewers are amazed, and passers-by are also sobbing. Put aside the feelings of flesh and blood and wave the riding crop cruelly.
There are three thousand long roads, when can we meet again? Thinking of my biological beauty makes my heart feel fried. There are no relatives at home, and no relatives outside.
The city walls turned into mountains and forests, and the courtyards were covered with thorns and mugwort. No one knows who the bones are, and no one is there to cover them up.
If you don't listen to people when you go out, the jackals howl and bark wildly. Qingqiong looked at her self-pitying, heartbroken and heartbroken.
Climb high and look into the distance, your soul suddenly flies into the sky. It seems that my life is over, and others are comforting me.
I barely managed to catch my breath, but there was nothing to talk about in my life.
Marry me again, Dong Lang, and I will have something to rely on in my heart. I am a miserable bitch, worried about being abandoned again.
There was a time in life when worries were inevitable all year round. The second song: Poor fortune suffers disaster, the clan is exterminated and the family is single.
He was captured and sent to the Xiongnu, and went through many hardships and dangers to the Qiang barbarians.
The journey is far and wide and there are many valleys. Looking back towards the east, I feel sad. I can't sleep peacefully at night, and I can't eat when I'm hungry.
I often cry and it’s hard to dry up my tears.
If you lack moral integrity and want to die, you will have no face even if you are alive.
It's cold in the distance, and the north wind blows and snowflakes fly. The sky is dark in the desert, and there is nowhere for vegetation to grow.
People are like birds whose food smells fishy and cannot be heard clearly when they speak. I went on an expedition in the cold weather and at the end of the year, I closed the door tightly at night.
Unable to fall asleep and often frightened, I climbed up the Hu Palace to Guangting.
Dark clouds cover the city, covering the stars and the moon, and the north wind whistles with a chilling sound.
Hujia whined while the horses noisy, and the lone wild goose's voice became even sadder. The musician is interested in playing the zither, and the harmonies sound sad and clear.
I feel depressed and have nowhere to complain, and I want to say it but I'm afraid of shocking others. Swallow the tears into your belly.
Someone from home came to pick up Guining, so he had to leave Xiao Jiaosheng behind.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
处所多霜雪，胡风春夏起。
翩翩吹我衣，肃肃入我耳。
感时念父母，哀叹无穷已。
有客从外来，闻之常欢喜。
迎问其消息，辄复非乡里，邂逅徼时愿，骨肉来迎己。
己得自解免，当复弃兒子。
天属缀人心，念别无会期。
存亡永乖隔，不忍与之辞。
兒前抱我颈，问母欲何之。 人言母当去，岂复有还时。
阿母常仁恻，今何更不慈？
我尚未成人，奈何不顾思！
见此崩五内，恍惚生狂痴。
号泣手抚摩，当发复回疑。
兼有同时辈，相送告离别。
慕我独得归，哀叫声摧裂。
马为立踟蹰，车为不转辙。
观者皆嘘唏，行路亦鸣咽。去去割情恋，遄征日遐迈。
悠悠三千里，何时复交会？
念我出腹子，匈臆为摧败。
既至家人尽，又复无中外。
translation: 
The mother's voice breaks her heart when she cries, and she covers her ears and dare not listen.
When I turned back alone, I no longer looked like a human in the mirror.
Thinking back on how heartless I was, my heart was filled with sorrow. Endless lamentation.
I always feel happy when I hear that there are guests from out of town.
When greeting guests to inquire about news, they are not from their hometown. Unexpectedly, his wish came true unexpectedly, and his relatives came to greet him.
He was able to escape the suffering, but he had to leave his son behind.
Relatives are naturally connected by heart, and there will be no time to meet again when they think of separation.
Life and death are forever separated, and I can't bear to say goodbye to my son.
My son came forward and hugged my neck, asking my mother where she wanted to wrap her up. I heard that my mother is leaving, is there still time to come back?
Mother is usually very kind, why is she not kind now?
I haven't grown up yet, why doesn't my mother think about it carefully?
Seeing this scene, my whole body was burning, my mind was in a daze and I was about to go crazy.
Crying and stroking her son, she was about to go on the road but hesitated again.
In addition, people who came at the same time came to say goodbye and see each other off.
They envied me for being able to go home alone, and their cries of sorrow were heartbreaking.
The horse was moved and hesitated, and the wheel stopped turning.
The people watching were crying and sobbing, and the pedestrians on the road were also crying softly. They cut off their love as they walked farther and farther, and the journey became farther and farther.
Three thousand miles away, when will we meet again?
Thinking of my biological son, my heart was filled with grief.
After arriving home, I found out that all my family members were dead and that I had no close relatives.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
城郭为山林，庭宇生荆艾。
白骨不知谁，从横莫覆盖。
出门无人声，豺狼号且吠。
茕茕对孤景，怛咤糜肝肺。
登高远眺望，魂神忽飞逝。
奄若寿命尽，旁人相宽大。
为复强视息，虽生何聊赖！
托命于新人，竭心自勖厉。
流离成鄙贱，常恐复捐废。
人生几何时，怀忧终年岁！
其二章曰：
嗟薄祐兮遭世患，宗族殄兮门户单。
身执略兮入西关，历险阻兮之羌蛮。
山谷眇兮路曼曼，眷东顾兮但悲叹。
冥当寝兮不能安，饥当食兮不能餐，常流涕兮眦不干，薄志节兮念死难，虽苟活兮无形颜。
惟彼方兮远阳精，阴气凝兮雪夏零。
沙漠壅兮尘冥冥，有草木兮春不荣。
人似禽兮食臭腥，言兜离兮状窈停。
岁聿幕兮时迈征，夜悠长兮禁门扃。
不能寐兮起屏菅，登胡殿兮临广庭。
translation: 
The city walls turned into mountains and forests, and thorns and wormwood grew in the courtyards.
There were bones of unknown persons everywhere, lying horizontally and vertically, none of them covered.
When I went out I heard no sound of people, only the howling of jackals.
Standing alone in front of the lonely figure, shocked, sad and heartbroken.
Standing on a high place and looking into the distance, the soul drifts away from the body and flies away.
It seems that life has come to an end, and others comfort me to relax my mind.
For this reason, I have to barely survive again, although what’s the point of living!
Entrust yourself to your newly married husband and encourage yourself with all your heart.
Having become a humble person after being displaced, he is always afraid of being abandoned by new people.
How much time does it take in a person's life to spend it with fear in his heart?
The second one reads:
Lamenting the fate of a poor life, encountering difficulties, and the clan being slaughtered, no one is left.
He was robbed, entered the Pass to the west, and went through many hardships to reach the Qiang barbarians.
The valley is far away and the road is long. Looking back, I can only sigh with regret.
At dusk, I should go to bed but I can't sleep peacefully. I'm hungry and I should eat but I can't eat. I am always crying, my eyes are never dry, I am not loyal, I want to die and I am afraid of difficulties, although I barely survive, I am no longer human.
That place is far away from the sun, where the cold air condenses and the snow falls in midsummer.
The desert is covered with dust and dim, but although there are plants and trees, they don’t bloom in spring.
Humans are like animals, they eat fishy food, they can't understand what they say, and they have deep eyes and a high nose.
The year is over, time flies by so fast, the night is long and the door is closed.
Unable to sleep and terrified, I climbed up to the barbarian's palace and stood in the vast courtyard.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
玄云合兮翳月星，北风厉兮肃泠泠。
胡笳动兮边马鸣，孤雁归兮声嘤嘤。
乐人兴兮弹琴筝，音相和兮悲且清。
心吐思兮匈愤盈，欲舒气兮恐彼惊，含哀咽兮涕沾颈。
家既迎兮当归宁，临长路兮捐所生。
兒呼母兮号失声，我掩耳兮不忍听。
追持我兮走茕茕，顿复起兮毁颜形。
还顾之兮破人情，心怛绝兮死复生。
赞曰：端操有踪，幽闲有容。
区明风烈，昭我管彤。
translation: 
The black clouds gathered and covered the moon and stars, and the north wind was shrill and cold.
The whistle blows, the horses neigh, and the lone wild goose returns, making a loud sound.
The musicians rose up and played the harps and zithers, and the sounds were harmonious and sad and desolate.
Thoughts are rushing in my heart and anger is building up in my chest. I want to express my emotions but I am afraid of disturbing the musicians. I am sad but my neck is wet with tears.
My family has come to welcome me, and I am about to return to my hometown. Looking at the long road in the distance, I have left behind my own flesh and blood.
My son called for his mother but couldn't cry. I covered my ears and couldn't bear to hear him.
My son chased me alone, I fell down and got up, feeling haggard.
When I looked back at this scene, my feelings were shattered, and my heart was filled with grief and despair.
Praise: There are traces of good conduct and good conduct, and there are traces of quietness and elegance, and style.
The distinction is clear, and it is the most powerful thing in history.


