Chunk 0: 
original: 
南夷君长以十数，夜郎最大。其西，靡莫之属以十数，滇最大。自滇以北，君长以十数，邛都最大。
此皆椎结，耕田，有邑聚。
其外，西自桐师以东，北至叶榆，名为巂、昆明、编发，随畜移徙，亡常处，亡君长，地方可数千里。
自巂以东北，君长以十数，徙、莋都最大。
自莋以东北，君长以十数，冉駹最大。
其俗，或土著，或移徙。
在蜀之西。自駹以东北，君长以十数，白马最大，皆氐类也。
此皆巴、蜀西南外蛮夷也。
始楚威王时，使将军庄蹻将兵循江上，略巴、黔中以西。
庄蹻者，楚庄王苗裔也。
蹻至滇池，方三百里，旁平地肥饶数千里，以兵威定属楚。
欲归报，会秦击夺楚巴、黔中郡，道塞不通，因乃以其众王滇，变服，从其俗以长之。
秦时尝破，略通五尺道，诸此国颇置吏焉。
十余岁，秦灭。
及汉兴，皆弃此国而关蜀故徼。
巴、蜀民或窃出商贾，取其莋马、僰僮、旄牛，以此巴、蜀殷富。
建元六年，大行王恢击东粤，东粤杀王郢以报。
恢因兵威使番阳令唐蒙风晓南粤。
南粤食蒙蜀枸酱，蒙问所从来，曰： 道西北牂柯江，江广数里，出番禺城下。
蒙归至长安，问蜀贾人，独蜀出枸酱，多持窃出市夜郎。
夜郎者，临牂柯江，江广百余步，足以行船。南粤以财物役属夜郎，西至桐师，然亦不能臣使也。
蒙乃上书说上曰： 南粤王黄屋左纛，地东西万余里，名为外臣，实一州主。
今以长沙、豫章往，水道多绝，难行。
translation: 
Among the rulers of Nanyi, Yelang is the largest. To the west, Mimo is the largest, and Dian is the largest. From Dian to the north, Qiongdu is the largest.
People in these countries all wear cone-shaped buns, cultivate fields, and have their own small towns and villages.
In addition, from Tongshi in the west to Yeyu in the north, they are named Lun and Kunming. They all have braided hair and move around with the grazing livestock. They have no fixed residence and no ruler. Their range of activities is about several thousand miles.
From Song to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the migration and extraction are the largest.
From Judu to the northeast, the ruler's length is calculated by ten, and Ran Xiao is the largest.
Among the customs there, some are settled and some are migrating.
To the west of Shu County, from Ranji to the northeast, the king's length is calculated by ten, and the white horse is the largest. These are all Di tribe.
The above are all barbarians outside the southwest of Bajun and Shujun.
At first, King Chu Wei sent General Zhuang Cuo to lead his army up the Yangtze River and captured the area west of Bajun and Qianzhong County.
Zhuang Qi is a descendant of King Zhuang of Chu. Zhuang Chu arrived at Dianchi Lake.
Dianchi Lake has a radius of three hundred miles, and beside the pool is flat land, fertile and fertile, with a radius of several thousand miles. Zhuang Zhen relied on the power of his army to pacify this area and make it belong to the Chu State.
Zhuang Jiao planned to return to Chu State to report, but the Qin State attacked Chu State and captured Bajun and Qianzhong County of Chu State. The road was blocked and he could not return, so he relied on his army to become king in Yunnan. Zhuang Jiao changed her clothes and followed the customs of Nabu in order to rule the barbarians in Nabu.
During the Qin Dynasty, this area was captured, the Five Feet Road was roughly opened, and officials were appointed for some countries in this area.
After more than ten years, the Qin Dynasty perished.
By the rise of the Han Dynasty, all these countries were abandoned and the original borders of Shu were used as passersby.
Some people from Bajun and Shujun secretly went out to do business in this area in exchange for horses from the capital, slaves and yaks from the Fen tribe. As a result, Bajun and Shujun became prosperous.
In the sixth year of the founding of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wang Hui was ordered to attack Shuyue. The Shuyue people killed King Ying of Dongyue and then told Wang Hui.
Taking advantage of his military power, Wang Hui sent Pan Yang to order Tang Meng to euphemistically inform Nanyue of the Han Dynasty's intention to launch an army.
The people of southern Guangdong entertained Tang Meng with wolfberry sauce from Shu. Tang Meng asked about the origin of the wolfberry sauce. The answer was: It was brought from Pangkejiang in the northwest. The Yangke River is several miles wide and flows under Panyu City.
Tang Meng returned to Chang'an and asked businessmen in Shu, only to learn that only Shu produced wolfberry sauce, and many Shu people secretly sold it to Yelang.
Yelang is close to the Pangke River, which is more than a hundred paces wide and can be used for boats. The people of Nanyue used their property to make Yelang surrender. The influence of Nanyue reached directly to the west of Tongshi, but they still could not use Yelang like a vassal.
Tang Meng then wrote to Emperor Mowu saying: The king of Nanyue took the yellow house and decorated the left banner. He occupied a territory of more than 10,000 miles from east to west. In name, he was a vassal of the country, but in fact he was the lord of a state.
Now Changsha Kingdom and Yuzhang County are going to conquer, and most of the waterways are cut off and difficult to navigate.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
窃闻夜郎所有精兵可得十万，浮船牂柯，出不意，此制粤一奇也。
诚以汉之强，巴、蜀之饶，通夜郎道，为置吏，甚易。
上许之。
乃拜蒙以郎中将，将千人，食重万余人，从巴苻关入，遂见夜郎侯多同。
厚赐，谕以威德，约为置吏，使其子为令。
夜郎旁小邑皆贪汉缯帛，以为汉道险，终不能有也，乃且听蒙约。
还报，乃以为犍为郡。
发巴、蜀卒治道，自僰道指牂柯江。
蜀人司马相如亦言西夷邛、莋可置郡。
使相如以郎中将往谕，皆如南夷，为置一都尉，十余县，属蜀。
当是时，巴、蜀西郡通西南夷道，载转相饷。
数岁，道不通，士罢饿餧，离暑湿，死者甚众。西南夷又数反，发兵兴击，耗费亡功。
上患之，使公孙弘往视问焉。
还报，言其不便。
及弘为御史大夫，时方筑朔方，据河逐胡，弘等因言西南夷为害，可且罢，专力事匈奴。
上许之，罢西夷，独置南夷两县一都尉，稍令犍为自保就。
及元狩元年，博望侯张骞言使大夏时，见蜀布、邛竹杖，问所从来，曰： 从东南身毒国，可数千里，得蜀贾人市。
或闻邛西可二千里有身毒国。
骞因盛言大夏在汉西南，慕中国，患匈奴隔其道，诚通蜀，身毒国道便近，又亡害。
于是天子乃令王然子、柏始昌、吕越人等十余辈间出西南夷，指求身毒国。
translation: 
I heard that Yelang's elite troops, perhaps numbering 100,000, sailed down the Yangke River by boat to catch them by surprise. This was a clever trick to subdue southern Guangdong.
If we rely on the strength of the Han Dynasty and the wealth of the two counties of Ba and Shu, it will be easy to open the road to Yelang and set up officials for those places.
The emperor agreed to Tang Meng's suggestion.
So Tang Meng was appointed as Lieutenant General Lang, leading a thousand soldiers and more than 10,000 servants carrying food and baggage. Entering Yelang from Baduguan, he immediately met Yelang Hou Duotong.
Tang Meng rewarded Duotong heavily, told him the stakes, and agreed with Duotong to appoint officials to Yelang and let Duotong's son hold an official position similar to a county magistrate.
The small countries near Yelang all coveted the Han Dynasty's silk, and believed that the Han Dynasty's road to this area was difficult and dangerous, and they would not be able to possess them after all, so they temporarily accepted the alliance between Duotong and Tang Meng.
Tang Meng reported to the court, and the court designated the location of Yelang and these small countries as Jianwei County.
The Han Dynasty recruited infantrymen from Bajun and Shujun to build roads from Fendao to the Yangke River.
Sima Xiangru, a native of Shu County, also wrote a letter saying that counties could be established in the Qiongdu and Jiadu areas of Xiyi.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Sima Xiangru to go to the Xiyi area as a lieutenant general and inform the Xiyi people of the court's intentions. The situation was the same as that of Nanyi. The imperial court appointed a county captain to Nahuo and established more than ten counties under the management of Shu County.
At this time, the four counties of Ba, Shu, Guangmo, and Hanzhong were building roads leading to the southwestern Yi region, and the transportation of grain and wages required for road construction was difficult.
After several years, the road was not repaired. Many of the soldiers who built the road died due to fatigue, hunger, and the heat and humidity. There were many rebellions in the southwestern barbarians. They mobilized troops to attack the rebels, but they spent money and resources without any results.
These situations made the emperor very worried, so he sent Gongsun Hong to those places to inspect and understand.
Gongsun Hong came back and reported that there was no benefit in setting up county officials there.
When Gongsun Hong served as the censor, the imperial court was building Shuofang County and driving out the Xiongnu according to the Yellow River. Gongsun Hong and others took the opportunity to state the damage caused by the campaign against the southwestern barbarians, and believed that the campaign against the southwestern barbarians could be temporarily suspended in order to concentrate on dealing with the Xiongnu.
The emperor agreed with these suggestions, abolished the officials in the Xiyi area, and only established two counties and one captain in the Nanyi area, allowing Jianwei County to protect itself and gradually improve its county system.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang, said that when he was on a mission to Daxia, he saw the bundles of cloth produced in Shu and the bamboo sticks produced in Qiong Mountain. He asked where they came from, and he replied: They came from Shendu country in the southeast. Shendu country is about several thousand miles away from this place. I bought them from Shu merchants there.
He also heard that there was a country about two thousand miles west of Qiong Mountain.
Zhang Qian took the opportunity to declare that Daxia was located to the southwest of the Han Dynasty. It envied China and suffered from the Xiongnu blocking its communication with the Han Dynasty. If the road to Shu could be opened, it would be convenient for Shendu to communicate with the Han Dynasty, which would be beneficial to the Han Dynasty.
Therefore, the emperor ordered Wang Ranyu, Bai Shichang, Lu Yueren and more than ten people to search for a small road and set out from the southwestern Yi area to find the country of Shendu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至滇，滇王当羌乃留为求道。
四岁余，皆闭昆明，莫能通。
滇王与汉使言： 汉孰与我大？
及夜郎侯亦然，各自以一州王，不知汉广大。
使者还，因盛言滇大国，足事亲附。
天子注意焉。
及至南粤反，上使驰义侯因犍为发南夷兵。且兰君恐远行，旁国虏其老弱，乃与其众反，杀使者及犍为太守。
汉乃发巴、蜀罪人当击南粤者八校尉击之。
会越已破，汉八校尉不下，中郎将郭昌、卫广引兵还，行诛隔滇道者且兰，斩首数万，遂平南夷为牂柯郡。
夜郎侯始倚南粤，南粤已灭，还诛反者，夜郎遂入朝，上以为夜郎王。
南粤破后，及汉诛且兰、邛君，并杀莋侯，冉駹皆震恐，请臣置吏，以邛都为粤巂郡，作都为沈黎郡，冉駹为文山郡，广汉西白马为武都郡。
使王然于以粤破及诛南夷兵威风谕滇王入朝。
滇王者，其众数万人，其旁东北劳深、靡莫皆同姓相杖，未肯听。
劳、莫数侵犯使者吏卒。
元封二年，天子发巴、蜀兵击灭劳深、靡莫，以兵临滇。
滇王始首善，以故弗诛。
滇王离西夷，滇举国降，请置吏入朝，于是以为益州郡，赐滇王王印，复长其民。
西南夷君长以百数，独夜郎、滇受王印。
滇，小邑也，最宠焉。
translation: 
When they arrived in the Dian Kingdom, they were retained by Dang Qiang, the king of Dian, who sent people to the west to find a way for them.
After more than four years, all the explorers were blocked by Kunming Yi, and no one could pass.
The King of Dian asked the envoy of the Han Dynasty: Which one is bigger than the Han Dynasty and our Dian Kingdom?
When the Han Dynasty envoy arrived at Yelang, the Marquis of Yelang also asked the same question. These princes all thought they were kings of a state and had no idea of ​​the vast territory of the Han Dynasty.
After the envoy came back, he tried his best to declare that Dian was a great country in Nabo and could definitely attract its attachment.
The emperor also paid attention to this matter.
When the Southern Guangdong rebellion came, the emperor ordered Chiyihou to recruit the Nanyi army through Jianwei County. The leader of Qielan was worried that his army would go away during the expedition, and nearby countries would take the opportunity to plunder their own old and weak people, so he and his tribe launched a rebellion and killed the Han Dynasty envoys and the governor of Jianwei County.
The Han Dynasty dispatched criminals from Bajun and Shujun, who were supposed to attack southern Guangdong, and the Eighth School Lieutenant to attack Qielan.
Just in time to catch up with the defeat of South Vietnam, the eight lieutenants of the Han Dynasty did not go down the Yangke River as originally planned. Zhonglang generals Guo Chang and Wei Guang led their troops back and took advantage of the march to punish Qielan, who had blocked the Han Dynasty's road to the Dian Kingdom. He killed tens of thousands, and then pacified Nanyi and used the land as Yangke County.
Yelanghou relied on Nanyue at first. After the fall of Nanyue, the Han Dynasty's army returned and punished the rebellious countries. Yelanghou went to Beijing to see the emperor, who named him King Yelang.
After the fall of Southern Guangdong, the Han Dynasty killed Qielan and Qiongdu Lord, and also killed the Lord of Zhadu. The leaders of Ran Xiaoyi were shocked and panicked, and asked to submit to the Han Dynasty and let the Han Dynasty appoint officials. Therefore, the Han Dynasty designated the residence of Qiongdu Yi as Guangdong County, the residence of Zhadu Yi as Shenli County, the residence of Ran Xiaoyi as Wenshan County, and the residence of Baima Yi to the west of Guanghan County as Wudu County.
The emperor ordered Wang Ranyu to persuade the Dian king to join the dynasty with the military situation of destroying Eastern Guangdong and conquering the southern barbarians.
The King of Dian has tens of thousands of tribesmen, and in the northeast there are Laoshen and Mimo. They have the same surname as Dian and rely on each other. They do not listen to the advice about the King of Dian entering the dynasty.
Lao Shen and Mi Mo repeatedly offended the envoys, officials and soldiers of the Han Dynasty.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the emperor mobilized troops from Bajun and Shujun to attack Laoshen and Mimo. The troops came to Dian Kingdom.
Since the King of Dian was originally friendly with the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty did not execute him.
The King of Dian broke away from the Western Yi, and the whole country surrendered to the Han Dynasty. He asked the Han Dynasty to appoint officials and go to Beijing to see the emperor. So the Han Dynasty made Nahuo a Yizhou county and gave the king of Dian the royal seal so that he could still rule his people.
There were hundreds of leaders of the southwestern barbarians, but only the leaders of Yelang and Dian received the royal seal.
Dian is a small country that was most favored by the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
后二十三岁，孝昭始元元年，益州廉头、姑缯民反，杀长吏。
牂柯、谈指、同并等二十四邑，凡三万余人皆反。
遣水衡都尉发蜀郡、犍为奔命万余人击牂柯，大破之。
后三岁，姑缯、叶榆复反，遣水衡都尉吕辟胡将郡兵击之。
辟胡不进，蛮夷遂杀益州太守，乘胜与辟胡战，士战及溺死者四千余人。
明年，复遣军正王平与大鸿胪田广明等并进，大破益州，斩首捕虏五万余级，获畜产十余万。
上曰： 钅句町侯亡波率其邑君长人民击反者，斩首捕虏有功，其立亡波为钅句町王。
大鸿胪广明赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
后间岁，武都氐人反，遣执金吾马適建、龙额侯韩增与大鸿胪广明将兵击之。
至城帝河平中，夜郎王兴与钅句町王禹、漏卧侯俞更举兵相攻。
牂柯太守请发兵诛兴等，议者以为道远不可击，乃遣太中大夫蜀郡张匡持节和解。
兴等不从命，刻木象汉吏，立道旁射之。
杜钦说大将军王凤曰： 太中大夫匡使和解蛮夷王侯，王侯受诏，已复相攻，轻易汉使，不惮国威，其效可见。
恐议者选耎，复守和解，太守察动静有变，乃以闻。
如此，则复旷一时，王侯得收猎其众，申固其谋，党助众多，各不胜忿，必相殄灭。
自知罪成，狂犯守尉，远臧温暑毒草之地，虽有孙、吴将，贲、育士，若入水火，往必焦设，知勇亡所施。
屯田守之，费不可胜量。
宜因其罪恶未成，未疑汉家加诛，阴敕旁郡守尉练士马，大司农豫调谷积要害处，选任职太守往，以秋凉时入，诛其王侯尤不轨者。
即以为不毛之地，亡用之民，圣王不以劳中国，宜罢郡，放弃其民，绝其王侯勿复通。
如以先帝所立累世之功不可堕坏，亦宜因其萌牙，早断绝之，及已成形然后战师，则万姓被害。
translation: 
Twenty-three years later, in the first year of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, the people of Liantou and Guzhen in Yizhou rebelled and killed the chief officials.
More than 30,000 people from 24 countries including Pang Ke, Tan Zhi, and Tong Bing also rebelled.
The Han Dynasty sent Captain Shuiheng to mobilize more than 10,000 soldiers from Shu and Jianwei counties to attack Qunke and completely defeat the rebels.
Three years later, Guzhen and Ye Yu rebelled again. The Han Dynasty sent Shuiheng Captain Lu Pihu to lead county troops to attack the rebels.
Before Lu Pihu's army could advance to Yeyu and Guzhen, the barbarians killed the prefect of Yizhou and took advantage of the victory to fight Lu Pihu. More than 4,000 Han soldiers died in battle or drowned.
The next year, he sent troops such as Wang Ping and Dahong Tian Guangming to attack, completely defeating the rebels in Yizhou, capturing and killing more than 50,000 people, and capturing more than 100,000 livestock.
The Emperor said: Gou Ding Hou Neng Bo led the leaders and people of the small country under his jurisdiction to attack the rebels. He captured and killed them with meritorious service, and established Nang Bo as the King of Xuan Ding.
Dahonglu Tian Guangming was rewarded with the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 300 households.
A year later, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. The imperial court dispatched Jinwu Ma Shijian, Long'ehou Han Zeng and Dahonglu Tian Guangming to lead troops to attack the rebels.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty in Heping, Wang Xing of Yelang, Wang Yu of Gouding, and Hou Yu of Luwo raised their troops to attack each other.
The governor of Yangke requested to attack Yelang Wang Xing and others. Those who discussed troop deployment believed that the road was too far to attack, so the imperial court sent Zhang Kuangchijie, a Taizhong doctor from Shu County, to reconcile the conflicts between the barbarian princes.
Yelang, Wang Xing and others did not obey the orders of the Han Dynasty officials. They carved wooden figures that looked like Han Dynasty officials and stood on the roadside to shoot.
Du Qin said to General Wang Feng: Taizhong official Zhang Kuang sent an envoy to reconcile the disputes between the barbarian princes. The princes accepted the Shao Order of the Han Dynasty, but further attacked each other, despised the Han Dynasty envoys, and were not afraid of the country's power. This shows the effect of reconciliation.
Worried that the people who discussed sending troops were weak and insisted on reconciliation, the prefect observed the movements of the barbarians and reported to the police only when something happened.
Like this, it will take a few more months for the barbarian princes to organize their tribes and stubbornly adhere to their own strategies. They have many followers and are extremely angry, and they will definitely kill each other and eliminate them.
If he knows that he has committed a crime, he will suddenly become mad and rebellious and kill the prefect or captain. Traveling far and deep into hot, humid and poisonous weeds areas, even if there are generals like Sun Wu and Wu Qi, and warriors like Meng Ben and Xia Yu, is equivalent to being plunged into fire and water. If you go there, you will definitely be scorched and submerged, and you will not be able to use your wisdom and courage.
It would be too expensive to defend them in the field.
They should take advantage of the fact that their crimes have not yet been committed and there is no doubt that the Han Dynasty is going to attack them. They should secretly order the governors and captains of nearby counties to select soldiers and war horses. Da Sinong will allocate grain to key places in advance and select competent governors to go there. In the cool autumn, they will enter the area and kill the most unruly princes.
If you think that sage kings will not tire China with barren land and useless people, you should abolish the establishment of Naguo County, abandon the people of Naguo, sever relations with the princes of Naguo, and no longer have contact with them.
If the achievements made by the late emperor cannot be destroyed, we should eradicate the disaster when it is budding. Wait until the disaster has already occurred, and then go out to attack, hundreds of millions of people will suffer.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
大将军凤于是荐金城司马陈立为牂柯太守。
立者，临邛人，前为连然长，不韦令，蛮夷畏这。
及至牂柯，谕告夜郎王兴，兴不从命，立请诛之。
未报，乃从吏数十人出行县，至兴国且同亭，召兴。兴将数千人往至亭，从邑君数十人入见立。
立数责，因断头。
邑君曰： 将军诛亡状，为民除害，愿出晓士众。
以兴头示之，皆释兵降。
钅句町王禹、漏卧侯俞震恐，入粟千斛，牛、羊劳吏士。
立还归郡，兴妻父翁指与兴子邪务收余兵，迫胁旁二十二邑反。
至冬，立奏募诸夷与都尉长史分将攻翁指等。
翁指据厄为垒，立使奇兵绝其饷道，纵反间以诱其众。
都尉万年曰： 兵久不决，费不可共。
引兵独进，败走，趋立营。
立怒，叱戏下令格之。
都尉复还战，立引兵救之。
时天大旱，立攻绝其水道。
蛮夷共斩翁指，持首出降。
立已平定西夷，征诣京师。
会巴郡有盗贼，复以立为巴郡太守，秩中二千石居，赐爵左庶长。
徙为天水太守，劝民农桑为天下最，赐金四十斤。入为左曹卫将军、护军都尉，卒官。
王莽篡位，改汉制，贬钅句町王以为侯。
王邯怨恨，牂柯大尹周钦诈杀邯。
邯弟承攻杀钦，州郡击之，不能服。
三边蛮夷愁扰尽反，复杀益州大尹程隆。
莽遣平蛮将军冯茂发巴、蜀、犍为吏士，赋敛取足于民，以击益州。
出入三年，疾疫死者什七，巴、蜀骚动。
莽征茂还，诛之。
更遣宁始将军廉丹与庸部牧史熊大发天水、陇西骑士，广汉、巴、蜀、犍为吏民十万人，转输者合二十万人，击之。
始至，颇斩首数千，其后军粮前后不相及，士卒饥疫，三岁余死者数万。
而粤巂蛮夷任贵亦杀太守枚根，自立为邛谷王。
会莽败汉兴，诛贵，复旧号云。
translation: 
At this time, General Wang Feng recommended Chen Li, Sima of Jincheng, as the prefect of Yangke County.
Chen Li was a native of Linqiong. He had previously served as the magistrate of Lianran County and the magistrate of Buwei County. The barbarians were afraid of him.
When Chen Li arrived at Qunke, he informed Yelang Wang Xing of the court's intentions, but Xing did not obey the order. Chen Li requested to attack him.
Before receiving approval, Chen Li accompanied dozens of officials to the lower counties. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion of Yelang Kingdom, they summoned Yelang Wang Xing. Yelang Wang Xing led thousands of people there. When they arrived at Qie Tong Pavilion, Yelang Wang Xing and dozens of Yijuns went in to see Chen Li.
Chen Li condemned and scolded them, and took the opportunity to kill King Yelang.
The princes who followed Yelang King said: The general killed the rude people who did not abide by the law and eliminated harm for the people. They hope to show Yelang King Xing's head to the public.
The head of King Yelang Xing was displayed to the public, and all the people of King Yelang laid down their weapons and surrendered.
King Yu of Gouding and Hou Yu of Luwo were frightened, so they paid a thousand bushels of dendrobium and some cattle and sheep to reward the officers and soldiers of the Han Dynasty.
When Chen Li returned to Pangke County, Yelang Wang Xing's father-in-law Weng Zhi and his son Zie Wu gathered up the remaining soldiers and forced twenty-two nearby cities to rebel.
In winter, Chen Li asked to recruit all the barbarians, and he would lead an army to attack Wengzhi and others separately from the captain and Chang Shi.
Weng Zhi relied on the steep terrain as a fortress. Chen Li used extraordinary troops to cut off Weng Zhi's route of transporting food and wages, and sent out questioners to seduce Weng Zhi's tribe.
Captain Wannian said: The army has not fought decisively for a long time, and the cost and supply cannot keep up.
So he led his army to attack alone. The attack failed and he fled to Chen Li's military camp.
Chen Li was angry and reprimanded Wan Nian under the banner of the general and ordered him to resist the enemy.
Captain Wannian returned to fight again, and Chen Li led his army to rescue him.
At this time, there was a severe drought, and Chen Li attacked to cut off the water channel.
So the barbarians beheaded Weng Zhi together and came out with Weng Zhi's head to surrender.
Chen Li had already pacified Xiyi, and the emperor summoned them to the capital.
When he caught up with thieves in Bajun, he appointed Chen Li as the prefect of Bajun, with Zhong Two Thousand Stones in his official position. The court rewarded him with the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
Later, he was appointed as the prefect of Tianshui County. He encouraged the people to devote themselves to farming and mulberry trees, and he was the most outstanding in the world. The court rewarded him with forty pounds of gold. He entered the court and served as General Zuo Cao Wei and Captain of the Guards. He died in office.
Wang Mang usurped the throne, changed the system of the Han Dynasty, and demoted King Gouding to the title of Marquis of Gouding.
Wang Han of Gouching was resentful, and Zhou Qin, the great Yin of Yangke County, killed Han by deceitful means.
Hand's brother Cheng then attacked and killed Zhou Qin, and the prefectures and counties sent troops to fight back against the Gouding barbarians, but they could not subdue them.
The barbarians on the three sides were worried about the invasion, so they all rebelled and killed Chenglong, the great Yin of Yizhou County.
Wang Mang sent Pingman general Feng Mao to mobilize officials and soldiers from Bajun, Shujun and Qianweijun. Collect enough taxes from the people to attack the Yizhou barbarians.
Three years after the expedition, seven out of ten people died of disease and plague, causing unrest in Bajun and Shujun.
Wang Mang summoned Feng Mao to kill him.
Ningshi General Lian Danyuyong was reassigned to Mu Shixiong, and he mobilized cavalry from Tianshui and Longxi counties and 100,000 officials and civilians from Guangmo, Ba, Shu, and Jianwei counties, plus 200,000 people transporting military supplies, to attack the rebels.
When they first arrived, they killed thousands of people. Later, the transportation of military supplies could not keep up, and the soldiers became hungry and sick. Tens of thousands of people died in three years.
Moreover, Ren Gui, a barbarian from Jun County, Guangdong, killed the prefect Mei Gen and established himself as the king of Qiong Valley.
After Wang Mang failed to catch up with him, Han Guangwu Zhongxing killed Ren Gui and restored his original title.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
南粤王赵佗，真定人也。
秦并天下，略定扬粤，置桂林、南海、象郡，以適徙民与粤杂处。
十三岁，至二世时，南海尉任嚣病且死，召龙川令赵佗语曰： 闻陈胜等作乱，豪桀叛秦相立，南海辟远，恐盗兵侵此。
吾欲兴兵绝新道，自备侍诸侯变，会疾甚。
且番禺负山险阻，南北东西数千里，颇有中国人相辅，此亦一州之主，可为国。
郡中长吏亡足与谋者，故召公告之。
即被佗书，行南海尉事。
嚣死，佗即移檄告横浦、阳山、湟溪关曰： 盗兵且至，急绝道聚兵自守。
因稍以法诛秦所置吏，以其党为守假。
秦已灭，佗即击并桂林、象郡，自立为南粤武王。
高帝已定天下，为中国劳苦，故释佗不诛。
十一年，遣陆贾立佗为南粤王，与部符通使，使和辑百粤，毋为南边害，与长沙接境。
高后时，有司请禁粤关市铁器。
佗曰： 高皇帝立我，通使物，今高后听谗臣，别异蛮夷，隔绝器物，此必长沙王计，欲倚中国，击灭南海并王之，自为功也。
于是佗乃自尊号为南武帝，发兵攻长沙边，败数县焉。
高后遣将军隆虑侯灶击之，会暑湿，士卒大疫，兵不能逾领。
岁余，高后崩，即罢兵。
佗因此以兵威财物赂遗闽粤、西瓯骆，伇属焉。
东西万余里。
乃乘黄屋左纛，称制，与中国侔。
translation: 
Zhao Tuo, King of Southern Guangdong, was a native of Zhending County.
After Qin unified the world, he pacified Yangyue, established Guilin County, Nanhai County and Xiang County, and moved the people who were punished to Nahuo to live together with the Cantonese people.
Thirteen years later, during the reign of Qin II, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned the magistrate of Long County, Tuo Tuo, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others started an army to rebel, and the heroes rebelled against Qin and established themselves as kings. Nanhai County is in a remote place, and I am afraid that the bandit army will capture it.
I wanted to send troops to cut off the new road, defend myself, and observe the movements of the princes, but unfortunately I fell seriously ill.
The Panyu area is backed by mountains, the terrain is difficult, and it is thousands of miles in radius. With the help of many Central Plains people, it can also become the lord of a state and establish a country.
There is no one among the officials in the county who is worthy of my seeking advice, so I have invited you here to tell you what I think.
The relevant documents were immediately issued to Tuo Tuo, and he was asked to act as Nanhai County Lieutenant.
After Ren Xiao's death, Tu Tuo immediately issued a message, notifying Hengpu, Yangshan, Huangxiguan and others: The bandits' army is about to attack. Please cut off the passage immediately and gather troops to defend yourself!
So he used legal means to gradually kill the officials appointed by the Qin Dynasty, and appointed his cronies to perform their duties.
After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, Tuo Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin County and Xiang County, and established himself as King Wu of Southern Guangdong.
After Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty pacified the world, due to the continuous wars in the Central Plains and the hard work of the people, he spared Zhao Tuo and refused to punish him.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the Han Dynasty sent Lu Mai to establish Zhao Tuo as the king of southern Guangdong. He made a talisman with him and asked him to coordinate the security and control of Guangdong and avoid causing trouble on the southern border. Southern Guangdong borders the Changsha Kingdom of the Han Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Gao, officials from relevant departments petitioned to prohibit the Southern Guangdong Kingdom from purchasing ironware in the Guan market.
Tu Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of Nanyue, and the two sides exchanged envoys and goods. Now Gaohou listens to the slanderous ministers, regards the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the circulation of artifacts. This must be the strategy of King Changsha. He wants to rely on the Han Dynasty to destroy Nanyue, swallow up Nanhai County, and rule together for his own benefit.
Therefore, Zhao Tuo proclaimed himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue and sent troops to attack the border areas of Changsha and defeated several counties.
Empress Gao sent General Long Luhou Zhou Zao to fight back. It was a hot and rainy day. Many soldiers were infected with the plague and the army could not cross the mountains.
More than a year later, Queen Gao died, and the Han Dynasty stopped military operations.
Tu Tuo took the opportunity to threaten Minyue and Xiouluo with force and bribe them with property, thereby enslaving them and making them belong to Nanyue.
In this way, the south of Guangdong reaches more than 10,000 miles from east to west.
Tu Tuo then rode in Zuohuan of Huangwu, proclaimed himself emperor, and competed with the emperor of Han Dynasty.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
文帝元年，初镇抚天下，使告诸侯四夷从代来即位意，谕盛德焉。
乃为佗亲冢在真定置守邑，岁时奉祀。
召其从昆弟，尊官厚赐宠之。
召丞相平举可使粤者，平言陆贾先帝时使粤。
上召贾为太中大夫，谒者一人为副使，赐佗书曰： 皇帝谨问南粤王，甚苦心劳意。
朕，高皇帝侧室之子，弃外奉北藩于代，道里辽远，壅蔽朴愚，未尝致书。
高皇帝弃群臣，孝惠皇帝即世，高后自临事，不幸有疾，日进不衰，以故悖暴乎治。
诸吕为变故乱法，不能独制，乃取它姓子为孝惠皇帝嗣。
赖宗庙之灵，功臣之力，诛之已毕。
朕以王侯吏不释之故，不得不立，今即位。
乃者闻王遗将军隆虑侯书，求亲昆弟，请罢长沙两将军。
朕以王书罢将军博阳侯，亲昆弟在真定者，已遣人存问，修治先人冢。
前日闻王发兵于边，为寇灾不止。
当其时，长沙苦之，南郡尤甚，虽王之国，庸独利乎！
必多杀士卒，伤良将吏，寡人之妻，孤人之子，独人父母，得一亡十，朕不忍为也。
朕欲定地犬牙相入者，以问吏，吏曰 高皇帝所以介长沙土也 ，朕不得擅变焉。
吏曰： 得王之地不足以为大，得王之财不足以为富，服领以南，王自治之。
虽然，王之号为帝。两帝并立，亡一乘之使以通其道，是争也；争而不让，仁者不为也。
愿与王分弃前患，终今以来，通使如故。
故使贾驰谕告王朕意，王亦受之，毋为寇灾矣。
translation: 
In the first year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, when the emperor had just begun to rule the world, he sent envoys to all the princes and foreign princes to inform them of his plans after entering the imperial court from Daiguo and becoming emperor, so that everyone would know about the emperor's holiness.
Therefore, a tomb guard house was set up for the tomb of Zhao Tuo's parents in Zhending, and sacrifices were made on time.
He summoned Zhao Tuo's cousins ​​and won them over with official posts and rewards.
He also issued an edict and ordered Prime Minister Chen Ping to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to Southern Guangdong. Chen Ping said that Lu Jia had been on an envoy to Southern Guangdong during the reign of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Wen summoned Lu Jia, appointed him Taizhong doctor, and appointed an emissary as deputy envoy. Emperor Wen's letter to Zhao Tuo said: The emperor respectfully greets the King of Nanyue with the most sincere heart.
I was not the legitimate son of Emperor Gao, but was sent to govern the country of Dai in the north. Due to the long distance and my own isolation and ignorance, I never exchanged envoys with southern Guangdong.
Emperor Gao passed away and left his ministers. Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne. Empress Gao personally took charge of the government. Unfortunately, she fell ill and her illness became increasingly serious. Therefore, the politics were harsh and unconventional.
The Lu family rebelled and deliberately violated laws and regulations. They could not rule alone, so they regarded other people's children as the heirs of Emperor Xiaohui and implemented puppet politics.
Relying on the blessing of the gods of the ancestral temple and the efforts of the heroes, the Lu family has now been exterminated.
I have repeatedly abdicated the throne, but the ministers did not allow it, so I had to establish myself as emperor, and now I have ascended the throne.
I once heard that you wrote to General Longluhou Zhouzao, requesting that your brothers in Zhending be found and that the two generals in Changsha be withdrawn.
In accordance with the request in your letter, I have withdrawn General Boyang Hou Chen Bi, your brother in Zhending, and I have also sent people to comfort and repair the tombs of your ancestors.
I heard before that you sent troops to attack the border and continued to cause trouble.
At that time, Changsha State suffered a disaster, and Nanjun suffered even more. Even your Nanyue State could only benefit?
We must sacrifice a large number of soldiers, harm excellent generals and officials, and cause the common people's wives to lose their husbands, their sons to lose their fathers, and their parents to lose their sons. This is what I cannot bear to do.
I wanted to add the intersecting border between Han and Southern Guangdong to Southern Guangdong, so I asked the relevant officials. The officials said that the boundary line was created by Emperor Gao to demarcate the land of Changsha, so I could not change it without authorization.
The officials said: The land obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty large, and the wealth obtained by the King of Nanyue is not enough to make the Han Dynasty rich. The south of the country is ruled by the King of Nanyue.
Despite this, you are called the emperor, and the two emperors stand side by side, but you did not send an envoy's car. This is a competition for position; fighting without humility is what virtuous people do not do.
I hope that we can put aside our past grievances and that from now on and forever, the two sides will communicate with each other as before.
Therefore, I sent Lu Mai to quickly express my thoughts to you. I hope you will accept my opinion and stop creating border troubles.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
上褚五十衣，中褚三十衣，下褚二十衣，遗王。愿王听乐娱忧，存问邻国。
陆贾至，南粤王恐，乃顿首谢，愿奉明诏，长为藩臣，奉贡职。
于是下令国中曰： 吾闻两雄不俱立，两贤不并世。
汉皇帝贤天子。
自今以来，去帝制黄屋左纛。
因为书称： 蛮夷大长老夫臣佗昧死再拜上书皇帝陛下：老夫故粤吏也，高皇帝幸赐臣佗玺，以为南粤王，使为外臣，时内贡职。
孝惠皇帝即位，义不忍绝，所以赐老夫者厚甚。
高后自临用事，近细士，信谗臣，别异蛮夷，出令曰： 毋予蛮夷外粤金铁田器；马、牛、羊即予，予牡，毋与牝。
老夫处辟，马、羊、羊齿已长，自以祭祀不修，有死罪，使内史藩、中尉高、御史平凡三辈上书谢过，皆不反。又风闻老夫父母坟墓已坏削，兄弟宗族已诛论。
吏相与议曰： 今内不得振于汉。外亡以自高异。 故更号为帝，自帝其国，非敢有害于天下也。
高皇后闻之大怒，削去南粤之籍，使使不通。
老夫窃疑长沙王谗臣，故敢发兵以伐其边。
且南方卑湿，蛮夷中西有西瓯，其众半羸，南面称王；东有闽粤，其众数千人，亦称王；西北有长沙，其半蛮夷，亦称王。
老夫故敢妄窃帝号，聊以自娱。
老夫身定百邑之地，东西南北数千万里，带甲百万有余，然北面而臣事汉，何也？
不敢背先人之故。
老夫处粤四十九年，于今抱孙焉。
然夙兴夜寐，寝不安席，食不甘味，目不视靡曼之色，耳不听钟鼓之音者，以不得事汉也。
今陛下幸哀怜，复故号，通使汉如故，老夫死骨不腐，改号不敢为帝矣！
谨北面因使者献白璧一双，翠鸟千，犀角十，紫贝五百，桂蠹一器，生翠四十双，孔雀二双。
昧死再拜，以闻皇帝陛下。
translation: 
Now I present fifty pieces of thick cotton clothes, thirty pieces of medium cotton clothes, and twenty pieces of thin cotton clothes as a gift to you. I hope you will enjoy more music and dance to entertain yourself, relieve your sorrow, and soothe neighboring countries such as Fujian, Guangdong, and Ouluo.
When Lu Jia arrived in Nanyue, the King of Nanyue was very frightened, so he kowtowed and apologized, willing to obey the order of the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, to be a vassal of the Han Dynasty forever, and to perform the tribute duty.
At the same time, he ordered the people in the country to say: I heard that two heroes cannot stand together, and two sages cannot coexist in the world.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor.
From now on, the Southern Guangdong Kingdom abolishes the imperial title and Huangwu Zuohu.
He also wrote to Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty and said: After the death of the barbarian chief and old minister Tuo Mei, he paid homage and wrote to His Majesty the Emperor: I was an official in the past in Guangdong. Emperor Gao fortunately gave me his seal and made me the king of southern Guangdong, so that I could serve as a minister abroad and pay tribute on time.
Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne, and he could not bear to abandon me because of his benevolence and righteousness, so he rewarded me very generously.
After Gaohou personally took charge of the country's affairs, he got close to the villains, listened to the words of the slanderous officials, and regarded the barbarians as aliens. He issued an order saying: Iron tools and other metal farm tools such as iron tools are not given to the barbarians in southern Guangdong. If horses, cattle, and sheep are given, only male ones will be given, not females.
I lived in a remote place, and my horses, cattle, and sheep were all old. I knew that not performing sacrifices would be a capital crime, so I sent Nei Shifan, Lieutenant Gao, and Yu Shiping to send letters of thanks three times, but there was no response. I also heard rumors that my parents' tombs had been destroyed, and that my brothers and clan had been convicted and executed.
The officials discussed with each other and said: Now you cannot rise up in the Han Dynasty in the interior, and there is nothing to show your superiority outside, so I changed my title to emperor, but I will only proclaim myself emperor in southern Guangdong and dare not harm the world.
When Empress Gao heard that I had changed my title to emperor, she was very angry. She expelled Nanyue from her vassal status and cut off the communication between envoys from both sides.
I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was slandering me, so I dared to send troops to attack the border of Changsha.
Moreover, the south is low and humid. Among the barbarians, there is Xiou in the west. The half-naked people are actually called kings in the south. Fujian and Guangdong in the east have only a few thousand people, and they are also called kings. Half of the people in Changsha in the northwest are barbarians, and they are also called kings.
So I dare to steal the emperor's title arrogantly and enjoy myself.
I personally pacified hundreds of cities, with a radius of thousands of miles, and more than a million soldiers, but why did I declare myself a vassal to the Han Dynasty?
Because I dare not disobey my ancestors.
I have been in Guangdong for forty-nine years, and now I have a grandson.
However, I get up early and lie down late, sleep poorly, eat poorly, my eyes dare not look at the gorgeous colors, and my ears dare not listen to the sound of bells and drums. All these are caused by my inability to serve the Han Dynasty.
Now the Emperor has taken pity on me and restored my original royal title, so that I can communicate with the Han Dynasty as before. I will die in peace. From now on, I will change my title and never dare to call myself emperor again!
I respectfully presented a pair of white jade stones, a thousand kingfishers, ten rhinoceros horns, five hundred purple clams, a bottle of cinnamon beetles, forty pairs of emeralds, and two pairs of peacocks through the envoy.
I will worship again after my death and express my feelings to His Majesty the Emperor.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
陆贾还报，文帝大说。
遂至孝景时，称臣遣使入朝请。
然其居国，窃如故号；其使天子，称王朝命如诸侯。
至武帝建元四年，佗孙胡为南粤王。
立三年，闽粤王郢兴兵南击边邑。
粤使人上书曰： 两粤俱为藩臣，毋擅兴兵相攻击。
今东粤擅兴兵侵臣，臣不敢兴兵，唯天子诏之。
于是天子多南粤义，守职约，为兴师，遣两将军往讨闽粤。
兵未逾领，闽粤王弟馀善杀郢以降，于是罢兵。
天子使严助往谕意，南粤王胡顿首曰： 天子乃兴兵诛闽粤，死亡以报德！
遣太子婴齐入宿卫。
谓助曰： 国新被寇，使者行矣。胡方日夜装入见天子。
助去后，其大臣谏胡曰： 汉兴兵诛郢，亦行以惊动南粤。
且先王言事天子期毋失礼，要之不可以怵好语入见。
入见则不得复归，亡国之势也。
于是胡称病，竟不入见。
后十余岁，胡实病甚，太子婴齐请归。
胡薨，谥曰文王。
婴齐嗣立，即臧其先武帝、文帝玺。
婴齐在长安时，取邯郸摎氏女，生子兴。
及即位，上书请立摎氏女为后，兴为嗣。
汉数使使者风谕，婴齐犹尚乐擅杀生自恣，惧入见，要以用汉法，比内诸侯，固称病，遂不入见。遣子次公入宿卫。
婴齐薨，谥曰明王。
太子兴嗣立，其母为太后。
太后自未为婴齐妻时，曾与霸陵人安国少季通。
及婴齐薨后，元鼎四年，汉使安国少季谕王、王太后入朝，令辩士谏大夫终军等宣其辞，勇士魏臣等辅其决，卫尉路博德将兵屯桂阳，待使者。
王年少，太后中国人，安国少季往，复与私通，国人颇知之，多不附太后。
translation: 
Lu Jia came back to report, and Emperor Wen was very happy.
Until the time of Emperor Xiaojing, Tuo Tuo proclaimed himself a minister and sent envoys to pay homage to the emperor on time.
However, the King of Nanyue continued to use the title of emperor in his own country; he only proclaimed himself king when envoys paid homage to the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders like other princes and kings.
In the fourth year of the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Hu, the grandson of Tu Tuo, became the king of Southern Guangdong.
In the third year, Ying, the king of Fujian and Guangdong, raised his troops to attack the cities on the border of southern Guangdong.
The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty saying: Nanyue and Minyue are both vassals of the emperor, and they cannot send troops to attack each other without permission.
Now Shu Yue is raising troops to attack Nan Yue without authorization. I dare not send troops, so I ask the emperor to issue an edict.
So Emperor Wu praised Nan Yue for his loyalty, abiding by his duties and not breaking the rules, so he sent troops for it and sent two generals to attack Fujian and Guangdong.
Before the Han army could cross the mountains, Yu Shan, the younger brother of the King of Fujian and Guangdong, killed Ying and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, so the two generals stopped their troops.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Yan Zhu to explain the imperial intention to the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue, Zhao Hu, kowtowed and said: How could the emperor send troops to conquer Fujian and Guangdong for me? Even if I die, I will not be able to repay the emperor's kindness!
Send the prince to the imperial guard together with the infant.
Zaihu said to Yanzhu: The country of Southern Guangdong has been attacked by invaders. Your envoy, please go ahead. I am getting ready day and night to go to court to see the emperor.
After Yan Zhu left, the ministers of Southern Guangdong advised Zhao Hu and said: The Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Fujian and Guangdong, and also used this to intimidate Southern Guangdong.
Moreover, the late king once said that when serving the emperor, one only needs to be courteous. The most important thing is not to be deceived by the good words of the Han Dynasty envoys and enter the court to pay homage to the emperor.
Once you enter the court to pay homage to the emperor, you will not be able to come back again. This is a situation of national subjugation.
So Zhao Hu pretended to be ill and did not go to the court to pay homage to the emperor.
More than ten years later, Tread Hu did become seriously ill, and Prince Tread Yingqi asked to return to the country.
After Zai Hu died, he was given the title King Wen.
When Zhao Yingqi succeeded to the throne of Nanyue, he collected the seals of his ancestors who had pretended to be Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen.
When Te Yingqi was in Chang'an, he married a woman named Do from Handan and gave birth to his son Te Xing.
After he ascended the throne, he sent a letter to the Han Dynasty, requesting that a woman surnamed Zhu be the queen and Zhao Xing be the heir to the throne.
The Han Dynasty sent envoys many times to tactfully persuade Chang Yingqi to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but he still liked to monopolize the power of life and death and do whatever he wanted. He was afraid that after going to the court to pay homage to the emperor, he would be bound by the laws of the Han Dynasty like the princes in the mainland, so he insisted on pretending that he was ill. He has always refused to go to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but sent his son Zhao Cigong to serve as a guard in the court.
After Zhao Yingqi's death, he was given the title of King Ming.
Prince Zhao Xing ascended the throne, and his mother Zhu became the queen mother.
Before Queen Mother Kill became Tang Yingqi's wife, she had an affair with An Guo Shaoji from Baling County.
After the death of Zhao Yingqi, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to enter the court to pay homage to the emperor. They also sent debaters, admonishing doctor Zhongjun and others to state their case. The warrior Wei Chen and others assisted in decision-making. Weiwei Lu Bode led his troops to station in Guiyang County to wait for the envoy.
The King of Southern Guangdong, Zhao Xing, was young, and the Queen Mother Zhu was from the Central Plains. An Guo Shaoji was on an envoy this time and had an affair with the Queen Mother. People in South Guangdong knew about this, and most of them did not rely on the Queen Mother.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
太后恐乱起，亦欲倚汉威，劝王及幸臣求内属。
即因使者上书，请比内诸侯，三岁一朝，除边关。
于是天子许之，赐其丞相吕嘉银印，及内史、中尉、太傅印，余得自置。
除其故黥、劓刑，用汉法。
诸使者皆留填抚之。
王、王太后饬治行装重资，为入朝具。
相吕嘉年长矣，相三王，宗族官贵为长吏七十余人，男尽尚王女，女尽嫁王子弟宗室，及苍梧秦王有连。
其居国中甚重，粤人信之，多为耳目者，得众心愈于王。
王之上书，数谏止王，王不听。
有畔心，数称病不见汉使者。
使者注意嘉，势未能诛。
王、王太后亦恐嘉等先事发，欲介使者权，谋诛嘉等。
置酒请使者，大臣皆侍坐饮。
嘉弟为将，将卒居宫外。
酒行，太后谓嘉： 南粤内属，国之利，而相君苦不便者，何也？
以激怒使者。
使者狐疑相杖，遂不敢发。
嘉见耳目非是，即趋出。
太后怒，欲鏦嘉以矛，王止太后。
嘉遂出，介弟兵就舍，称病，不肯见王及使者。乃阴谋作乱。
王素亡意诛嘉，嘉知之，以故数月不发。
太后独欲诛嘉等，力又不能。
天子闻之，罪使者怯亡决。
又以为王、王太后已附汉，独吕嘉为乱，不足以兴兵，欲使庄参以二千人往。
参曰： 以好往，数人足；以武往，二千人亡足以为也。
辞不可，天子罢参兵。
translation: 
The Queen Mother was afraid that something might happen, so she wanted to rely on the power of the Han Dynasty to persuade the King of Nanyue and his favored ministers to request that the country belong to the Han Dynasty.
So he sent a letter through an envoy, requesting that the princes in the mainland should go to the court to pay homage to the emperor once every three years, and that the border defenses should be removed.
At that time, the emperor approved the request and gave Nanyue Prime Minister Lu Jia the silver seal, as well as the internal history, lieutenant, and Taifu seals. Nanyue could choose the other official positions by himself, and the Han Dynasty did not grant seals and ribbons.
The original corporal punishments of tattooing, tattooing, etc. in Southern Guangdong were abolished and the laws of the Han Dynasty were adopted instead.
The envoys of the Han Dynasty stayed to control southern Guangdong.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother packed their belongings and valuable gifts in preparation for entering the court.
Prime Minister Lu Jia is very old. He has served as prime minister to three generations of kings. There are more than 70 people in the clan holding important positions. The men of the Lu family all marry the princess's daughters, and the women all marry the royal children and are married to King Cangwu of Qin.
Lu Jia was very powerful in the Nanyue Kingdom. The people of Guangdong trusted him and mostly acted as their eyes and ears. He was more popular than the King of Nanyue.
The King of Nanyue sent a letter to the Han Dynasty. Lu Jiaduo tried to dissuade him, but the king did not listen.
Lu Jia then felt rebellious and repeatedly excused himself from seeing Han envoys because of illness.
The envoys all watched Lu Jia, but the situation was not conducive to kill him.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia and others would attack first, and wanted to murder Lu Jia and others through the authority of the Han Dynasty envoys.
So a banquet was held to invite the envoys of the Han Dynasty, and all the ministers from southern Guangdong sat and drank with them.
Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led the army to wait outside the palace.
After pouring the wine, the Queen Mother said to Lu Jia: Southern Guangdong belongs to the Han Dynasty, which is beneficial to the country, but Prime Minister, you think it is disadvantageous. Why?
He wanted to anger the Han Dynasty envoys.
The envoys were hesitant, looking at each other and never daring to make a move.
Lu Jia noticed that the atmosphere at the banquet was different from usual, so he immediately got up and went out.
The Queen Mother was furious and wanted to kill Lu Jia with a spear, but was stopped by the King of Nanyue.
So Lu Jia came out and returned to his home under the protection of the army led by his younger brother. He claimed to be ill and refused to meet the king and the Han envoys, so he plotted to cause trouble.
The King of Nanyue had no intention of killing Lu Jia, and Lu Jia knew this, so he did not raise any issue for several months.
Only the Queen Mother wanted to kill Lu Jia, but was unable to do so.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard about this, he blamed the envoy for being cowardly and unable to make a decision.
He also believed that the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother had already attached themselves to the Han Dynasty, and that only Lu Jia was causing trouble, so it was not worth sending troops, so he planned to send Zhuang Shen and 2,000 people to deal with it.
Zhuang Shen said: If you go for friendly purposes, a few people will be enough; if you go for war, two thousand people will not be able to accomplish anything.
Thinking it was not feasible and refused, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty did not ask Zhuang Shen to go.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
郏壮士故济北相韩千秋奋曰： 以区区粤，又有王应，独相吕嘉为害，愿得勇士三百人，必斩嘉以报。
于是天子遣千秋与王太后弟摎乐将二千人往。
入粤境，吕嘉乃遂反，下令国中曰： 王年少。太后中国人，又与使者乱，专欲内属，尽持先王宝入献天子以自媚，多从人，行至长安，虏卖以为僮。
取自脱一时利，亡顾赵氏社稷为万世虑之意。
乃与其弟将卒攻杀太后、王，尽杀汉使者。
遣人告苍梧秦王及其诸郡县，立明王长男粤妻子术阳侯建德为王。
而韩千秋兵之入也，破数小邑。
其后粤直开道给食，未至番禺四十里，粤以兵击千秋等，灭之。
使人函封汉使节置塞上，好为谩辞谢罪，发兵守要害处。
于是天子曰： 韩千秋虽亡成功，亦军锋之冠。封其子延年为成安侯。
摎乐，其姊为王太后，首愿属汉，封其子广德为龙侯。
乃赦天下，曰： 天子微弱，诸侯力政，讥臣不讨贼。
吕嘉、建德等反，自立晏如，令粤人及江淮以南楼船十万师往讨之。
元鼎五年秋，卫尉路博德为伏波将军，出桂阳，下湟水；主爵都尉杨仆为楼船将军，出豫章，下横浦；故归义粤侯二人为戈船、下濑将军，出零陵，或下离水，或抵苍梧；使驰义侯因巴、蜀罪人，发夜郎兵，下牂柯江；咸会番禺。
六年冬，楼船将军将精卒先陷寻陿，破石门，得粤船粟，因推而前，挫粤锋，以粤数万人待伏波将军。
translation: 
Han Qianqiu Fenran, a strong man in Jiaxian County and former Prime Minister of Jibei Kingdom, said: "Since Nanyue is only a small army, and the king of Nanyue is the internal response, only Lu Jia is in trouble. I am willing to get 300 warriors, and I will kill Lu Jia in return."
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Han Qianqiu and Yu Le, the younger brother of the Queen Mother of Nanyue, to lead 2,000 people to Nanyue.
After the Han Dynasty army entered the territory of Nanyue, Lu Jia finally launched a rebellion and ordered the Nanyue Kingdom to say: The king is young and the Queen Mother is from the Central Plains. She also had an affair with the Han Dynasty envoy. She wanted to belong to the Han Dynasty. She dedicated all the treasures of the former king to the Han Dynasty emperor to flatter herself. She also brought more entourage. After arriving in Chang'an, they all were plundered and sold into slavery.
The Queen Mother was seeking her own short-term gain, but she did not care about the Zhao family and her long-term plans for future generations.
Lu Jia and his brother then led troops to kill the queen mother, the king, and all the Han Dynasty envoys.
He sent people to inform King Cangwu of Qin and his prefectures and counties, and appointed Zhao Jiande, Marquis of Shuyang, the son of Qi's eldest son, King Ying of Ming Dynasty, and his wife in Guangdong, as king.
After the troops led by Han Qianqiu and others entered southern Guangdong, they captured several small cities.
After that, Nanyue simply got out of the way and provided them with food. When they reached a place about forty miles away from Panyu, Nanyue sent troops to attack Han Qianqiu's army and annihilated them.
Lu Jia sent people to seal the Han Dynasty envoy's talisman in a box and put it on the border fortress. He pretended to be friendly and said some deceptive words to express his apology, and at the same time sent troops to garrison the key places.
So Emperor Wu said: Although Han Qianqiu did not succeed, he was still the top military leader, and he named his son Han Yannian the Marquis of Cheng'an.
Zhu Le, whose sister was the Queen Mother of Nanyue, was first willing to belong to the Han Dynasty and named Da Le's son Zhu Guangde the Marquis of Le.
Then he promulgated a special pardon for Shao and said: The emperor is weak and the princes are fighting each other. The "Spring and Autumn" satirizes the ministers for not fighting for the emperor against the rebels.
Lu Jia, Tong Jiande and others rebelled and became self-proclaimed with peace of mind. Now they ordered 100,000 people from Guangdong and the Louchuan navy south of the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers to attack them.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Ding, Weiwei Lu Bode was General Fubo and set out from Guiyang County and went down to Huangshui; Lieutenant Yang Pu, the Lord Commander, was General Louchuan and set out from Yuzhang County and went down to Hengpu; two southern Guangdong people who originally surrendered to the Han Dynasty and were granted the title of Marquis They were General Ge Chuan and General Xia Lai. They set out from Lingling County, left the water and arrived at Cangwu. They sent Marquis Chiyi to use the pardoned prisoners in Bajun and Shujun to mobilize Yelang's army and go down to the Yangke River. All the soldiers and horses came to Panyu to join forces.
In the winter of the sixth year of Yuan Ding, Lou Chuan General Yang Pu led his elite troops to first attack Xunqiu, broke through the stone gate, and obtained Nanyue's ships and food. Taking advantage of the victory, they advanced and defeated Nanyue's vanguard. With an army composed of tens of thousands of Cantonese, they waited for Fubo General Lu Bode to join forces.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
伏波将军将罪人，道远后期，与楼船会乃有千余人，遂俱进。
楼船居前，至番禺，建德、嘉皆城守。
楼船自择便处，居东南面，伏波居西北面。
会暮，楼船攻败粤人，纵火烧城。
粤素闻伏波，莫，不知其兵多少。
伏波乃为营，遣使招降者，赐印绶，复纵令相招。
楼船力攻烧敌，反驱而入伏波营中。
迟旦，城中皆降伏波。
吕嘉、建德以夜与其属数百人亡入海。
伏波又问降者，知嘉所之，遣人追。
故其校司马苏弘得建德，为海常侯；粤郎都稽得嘉，为临蔡侯。
苍梧王赵光与粤王同姓，闻汉兵至，降，为随桃侯。
及粤揭阳令史定降汉，为安道侯。
粤将毕取以军降，为月尞侯。
粤桂林监居翁谕告瓯骆四十余万口降，为湘城侯。
戈船、下濑将军兵及驰义侯所发夜郎兵未下，南粤已平。
遂以其地为儋耳、珠崖、南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、交阯、九真、日南九郡。
伏波将军益封。
楼船将军以推锋陷坚为将梁侯。
自尉佗王凡五世，九十三岁而亡。
闽粤王无诸及粤东海王摇，其先皆粤王勾践之后也，姓驺氏。
秦并天下，废为君长，以其地为闽中郡。
及诸侯畔秦，无诸、摇率粤归番阳令吴芮，所谓番君者也，从诸侯灭秦。
当是时，项羽主命，不王也，以故不佐楚。
汉击项籍，无诸、摇帅粤人佐汉。
translation: 
General Fubo led the pardoned sinners. Due to the long journey, he missed his military term. Only more than a thousand people joined General Louchuan, so they marched together.
General Lou Chuan was in the lead. When they arrived at Panyu City, both Quan Jiande and Lu Jia were guarding the city.
General Lou Chuan chose the favorable terrain and stationed himself in the southeast of the city, while General Fubo stationed in the northwest of the city.
It happened that at night, General Lou Chuan defeated the Nanyue army and set fire to the city.
People in southern Guangdong have heard of General Fubo's reputation for a long time, but they didn't know how many troops he led because it was dark.
General Fubo then set up his military camp and sent envoys to recruit the southern Guangdong people to surrender. Those who surrendered were given seals and ribbons, and then he released them and asked them to recruit other southern Guangdong soldiers.
General Lou Chuan fought hard to attack and burn the enemy troops, but instead drove them into General Fubo's camp.
By dawn the next day, all the people in the city surrendered to General Fubo.
Lu Jia, Tong Jiande and several hundred of their followers fled to the sea at night.
General Fubo inquired about the surrenderers and found out where Lu Jia and others had fled, so he sent people to chase them.
The former school captain and Sima Suhong captured Zhao Jiande and was granted the title of Marquis of Haichang for his merits; Nanyue Langguan Duji captured Lu Jia alive and was granted the title of Marquis of Lincai for his merits.
The king of Cangwu, Zhao Guang, had the same surname as the king of Nanyue. Hearing that the Han army was coming, he surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was named Suitaohou.
Shi Ding, the magistrate of Jieyang County in southern Guangdong, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was named Andaohou.
The southern Guangdong general Bi Qu led his troops to surrender and was granted the title of Knee Marquis.
Weng, the governor of Guilin County in southern Guangdong, persuaded more than 400,000 people in Ouluo to surrender and was named the Marquis of Xiangcheng.
The armies of General Ge Chuan and Xiase and Yelang's army dispatched by Marquis Chiyi have not yet moved south, but Nanyue has been pacified.
So the Han Dynasty established nine counties there: Dan'er, Zhuya, Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen and Yuenan.
Fubo General Lu Bode increased the number of fiefs.
Yang Pu, the building general, was awarded the title of General Lianghou because of his ability to charge into battle and his courage to attack fortresses.
Starting from the time when Zhao Tuo, the captain of Nanhai County, established himself as the King of Nanyue, it lasted for ninety-three years for five dynasties and the Nanyue Kingdom was destroyed.
The ancestors of King Wuzhu of Fujian and Guangdong and King Yao of Shuhai of Guangdong were both descendants of King Goujian of Guangdong, and their surname was Liu.
After Qin unified the world, he deposed them as rulers and designated their territory as Minzhong County.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wu Zhuheyao led the Cantonese people to seek refuge with Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fanyang County. He was the so-called Fanjun and followed the princes to overthrow the rule of the Qin Dynasty.
At that time, Xiang Yu held the power of commanding the princes and did not establish Wu Zhu and Yao as kings, so they did not join Xiang Yu.
The Han attacked Xiang Yu, but Wu Zhu and Yao led the Cantonese to help the Han.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
汉五年，复立无诸为闽粤王，王闽中故地，都冶。
孝惠三年，举高帝时粤功，曰闽君摇功多，其民便附，乃立摇为东海王，都东瓯，世号曰东瓯王。
后数世，孝景三年，吴王濞反，欲从闽粤，闽粤未肯行，独东瓯从。
及吴破，东瓯受汉购，杀吴王丹徒，以故得不诛。
吴王子驹亡走闽粤，怨东瓯杀其父，常劝闽粤击东瓯。
建元三年，闽粤发兵围东瓯，东瓯使人告急天子。
天子问太尉田蚡，蚡对曰： 粤人相攻击，固其常，不足以烦中国往救也。
中大夫严助诘蚡，言当救。天子遣助发会稽郡兵浮海救之，语具在《助传》。
汉兵未至，闽粤引兵去。
东粤请举国徙中国，乃悉与众处江、淮之间。
六年，闽粤击南粤，南粤守天子约，不敢擅发兵，而以闻。
上遣大行王恢出豫章，大司农韩安国出会稽，皆为将军。
兵未逾领，闽粤王郢发兵距险。
其弟馀善与宗族谋曰： 王以擅发兵，不请，故天子兵来诛。
汉兵众强，即幸胜之，后来益多，灭国乃止。
今杀王以谢天子，天子罢兵，固国完。
不听乃力战，不胜即亡入海。
皆曰： 善。 即鏦杀王，使使奉其头致大行。
大行曰： 所为来者，诛王。
王头至，不战而殒，利莫大焉。
translation: 
In the fifth year of the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Wu Zhu was re-established as the King of Fujian and Guangdong. He took charge of the former Minzhong County and established his capital in Ye.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, he listed the contributions of the Guangdong people during the reign of Emperor Liu Bang of the Han Dynasty. He believed that the Fujian monarch Yao had made great contributions and his people were willing to rely on him, so he made Yao the King of the East China Sea and established his capital in Shuou. People called Yao Shuouyu.
After several generations, in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, King Liu Bi of Wu launched a rebellion and wanted to unite Fujian and Guangdong. However, Fujian and Guangdong refused, and only Dongou followed Wu.
After Wu was defeated, Dong Ou accepted the bribe of the Han Dynasty and killed Wu King Liu Bi in Dantu to atone for his sins. Therefore, Dong Ou was not punished by the Han Dynasty.
Liu Ju, the son of King Wu Liu Bi, fled to Fujian and Guangdong. He resented Shu Ou for killing his father and often encouraged Fujian and Guangdong to attack Dong Ou.
In the third year of Jianyuan, Fujian and Guangdong sent troops to besiege Shu'ou, and Shu'ou sent people to report to the emperor.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Taiwei Tian Wei for advice, and Tian Wei replied: It is a common thing for the Cantonese people to attack each other, and it is not worth the trouble of the Han Dynasty to come to rescue.
Yan Zhu, a senior official in the Central Military Commission, refuted Tian Wei and believed that he should be rescued. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Yan Zhu to mobilize troops from Kuaiji County to rescue Shu Ou from the sea. For details, see the "Biography of Yan Zhu".
Before the Han army reached Shuou, Fujian and Guangdong had already withdrawn their troops.
Shu Ou requested that the whole country move to the interior, and was allowed to do so, so Shu Ou moved all his people to live between the Jianghuai River and the Huaihe River.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Fujian and Guangdong attacked Nanyue. Nanyue obeyed the emperor's constraints and did not dare to send troops without authorization, but reported the situation to the Han court.
Emperor Wu sent Wang Hui, the great general, to set out from Yuzhang, and Han Anguo, the great minister, to set out from Kuaiji, both of whom served as generals.
Before the Han army crossed the mountains, King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong had already sent troops to occupy dangerous places to resist.
Ying's younger brother Yu Shan discussed with the clan and said: King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong sent troops without permission without asking the emperor for instructions, so the emperor sent troops to punish him.
The Han Dynasty's army has a large number of people. Even if we are lucky enough to win, more will come later, and they will not stop until the Fujian and Guangdong countries are wiped out.
Now the king is killed to apologize to the emperor. If the emperor withdraws his troops, the country of Fujian and Guangdong will be preserved.
If the emperor does not allow it, we will fight with all our strength, and if we fail, we will flee to the sea. Everyone said: OK!
He immediately stabbed the king to death with a spear and sent an envoy to deliver his head to King Hui of Daxing.
Da Xing said: The purpose of our coming is to kill the king of Fujian and Guangdong.
The head of the King of Fujian and Guangdong has been sent, and the goal has been achieved without fighting. There is nothing more advantageous than this.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
乃以便宜案兵告大司农军，而使使奉王头驰报天子。
诏罢两将军兵，曰： 郢等首恶，独无诸孙繇君丑不与谋。
乃使郎中将立丑为粤繇王，奉闽粤祭祀。
馀善以杀郢，威行国中，民多属，窃自立为王，繇王不能制。
上闻之，为馀善不足复兴师，曰： 馀善首诛郢，师得不劳。
因立馀善为东粤王，与繇王并处。
至元鼎五年，南粤反，馀善上书请以卒八千从楼船击吕嘉等。
兵至揭阳，以海风波为解，不行，持两端，阴使南粤。
及汉破番禺，楼船将军仆上书愿请引兵击东粤。
上以士卒劳倦，不许。罢兵，令诸校留屯豫章梅领待命。
明年秋，馀善闻楼船请诛之，汉兵留境，且往，乃遂发兵距汉道，号将军驺力等为 吞汉将军 ，入白沙、武林、梅领，杀汉三校尉。
是时，汉使大司农张成、故山州侯齿将屯，不敢击，却就便处，皆坐畏懦诛。
馀善刻 武帝 玺自立，诈其民，为妄言。
上遣横海将军韩说出句章，浮海从东方往；楼船将军仆出武林，中尉王温舒出梅领，粤侯为戈船、下濑将军出如邪、白沙，元封元年冬、咸入东粤。
东粤素发兵距险，使徇北将军守武林，败楼船军数校尉，杀长史。
楼船军卒钱唐榬终古斩徇北将军，为语皃侯。
自兵未往。
故粤衍侯吴阳前在汉，汉使归谕馀善，不听。
及横海军至，阳以其邑七百人反，攻粤军于汉阳。
及故粤建成侯敖与繇王居股谋，俱杀馀善，以其众降横海军。
封居股为东成侯，万户；封敖为开陵侯；封阳为卯石侯，横海将军说为按道侯，横海校尉福为缭嫈侯。
福者，城阳王子，故为海常侯，坐法失爵，从军亡功，以宗室故侯。
及东粤将多军，汉兵至，弃军降，封为无锡侯。
故瓯骆将左黄同斩西于王，封为下鄜侯。
于是天子曰 东粤狭多阻，闽粤悍，数反复 ，诏军吏皆将其民徙处江、淮之间。
东粤地遂虚。
朝鲜王满，燕人。
自始燕时，尝略属真番、朝鲜，为置吏筑障。
秦灭燕，属辽东外徼。
汉兴，为远难守，复修辽东故塞，至浿水为界，属燕。
燕王卢绾反，入匈奴，满亡命，聚党千余人，椎结蛮夷服而东走出塞，渡浿水，居秦故空地上下障，稍伇属真番、朝鲜蛮夷及故燕、齐亡在者王之，都王险。
会孝惠、高后天下初定，辽东太守即约满为外臣，保塞外蛮夷，毋使盗边；蛮夷君长欲入见天子，勿得禁止。
以闻，上许之，以故满得以兵威财物侵降其旁小邑，真番、临屯皆来服属，方数千里。
传子至孙右渠，所诱汉亡人滋多，又未尝入见；真番旁众国欲上书见天子，又雍阏弗通。
元封二年，汉使涉何谯谕右渠，终不肯奉诏。
translation: 
So he took advantage of the situation to stop military operations, notified the army of Nong Han Anguo, and at the same time sent an envoy to report to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty with the head of the King of Fujian and Guangdong.
Emperor Wu issued an edict ordering the two generals to stop their troops, saying: King Ying of Fujian and Guangdong committed evil first, but Wu Zhu's grandson Yao Junchou did not participate in it.
So he sent a lieutenant general to establish Chou as the king of Yue Yao and worship the ancestors of Fujian and Guangdong.
Because Yu Shan killed Ying, he gained great prestige in the Fujian and Guangdong kingdoms. Many people relied on him, so he secretly proclaimed himself king. King Yao Chou could not control the situation.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard about this, he felt that it was not worth sending troops again because of Yu Shan, so he said: Yu Shan took the lead in killing Ying to save the army from the fatigue of fighting.
So Yu Shan was made King of Shuyue, standing side by side with King Chou of Yao.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, Nanyue rebelled against the Han Dynasty. Yu Shan wrote to the emperor, asking for permission to lead 8,000 soldiers to attack Nanyue Prime Minister Lu Jia and others with General Yang Pu.
After Shu Yue's army arrived in Jieyang, they stopped advancing on the grounds of heavy sea waves. They took a wait-and-see attitude and secretly sent people to contact Nanyue.
After the Han Dynasty army broke through Panyu City, General Yang Pu sent a letter to Emperor Mowu, expressing his willingness to lead an army to attack Dongyue.
Emperor Wu thought that the soldiers were very tired and did not agree to Yang Pu's request. He ordered the troops to stop and left the soldiers and horses of each battalion to garrison and wait for orders in Meiling, Yuzhang.
In the autumn of the next year, Yu Shan heard that General Yang Pu of Lou Chuan had requested to attack him. The Han Dynasty army was stationed in the border area and was about to attack Shuyue. So he sent troops to guard the path of the Han Dynasty army. He gave General Ju Li and others the title of "General Tunmo" and sent them to attack Baisha, Wulin and Meiling, killing three lieutenants of the Han Dynasty.
At that time, Zhang Cheng, the chief agricultural officer of the Han Dynasty, and Hou Chi of Yuanshanzhou led their troops to garrison there, but they did not dare to send troops to attack, but retreated to a safe place. Both of them were executed for the crime of cowardice and fear of the enemy.
Yu Shanbai carved a seal with the words "Emperor Wu", proclaimed himself emperor, deceived his countrymen, and spread arrogant remarks.
Emperor Mowu sent General Han Shuo of Henghai to send troops from Juzhang to cross the sea and attack from the east; General Yang Pu of Louchuan sent troops from Wulin, and Lieutenant Wang Wenshu sent troops from Meiling. The Cantonese Yan and Jia who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and were made marquises were named Gechuan and General Xiase sent troops from Ruxie and Baisha respectively. In the winter of the first year of Yuanfeng, soldiers and horses from all walks of life invaded Shuyue.
Shuyue had originally sent troops to guard the dangerous place, and sent General Lianbei to guard Wulin. He defeated several lieutenants of General Louchuan and killed some officials.
Qian Tang, a soldier of General Louchuan, killed General Yibei and was named Yu'erhou.
General Lou Chuan himself did not lead his troops to Wulin.
Wu Yang, the former Marquis of Yan of Guangdong, was in the Han Dynasty before. The Han Dynasty sent him back to persuade Yu Shan, but Yu Shan refused to listen.
When Han Yue, the general of Henghai, led his army to Shuyue, Wu Yang led 700 people in his fiefdom to rebel against Yu Shan and attack Shuyue's army in Hanyang City.
In addition, Hou Ao of Yuan Shuyue Jiancheng and King Yao Jugu planned to kill Yu Shan together and led his troops to surrender to General Henghai.
Therefore, in the Han Dynasty, Jugu was granted the title of Marquis of Cambodia, with a settlement of 10,000 households; Ao was granted the title of Kailinghou; Wu Yang was granted the title of Maoshihou; General Han Shuo of Henghai was granted the title of Yingdaohou, and Henghai captain Liu Fu was granted the title of Liaoyinghou.
Liu Fu was the son of Liu happy, the communist king of Chengyang. He was originally named Haichanghou, but was deprived of his title for breaking the law. He did not make any meritorious service in the army. He was named a Hou just because he was a member of the royal clan.
There was also a large army of General Dongyue. When the Han Dynasty army invaded, he abandoned his army and surrendered, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuxi.
Zuo Huangtong, the former general of Ouluo, killed King Xiyu and was granted the title of Marquis of Xiayuan by Ce.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty said: The land of Shuyue is narrow and dangerous, while Fujian and Guangdong are strong and capricious. He ordered the military officials to move all the Cantonese people to the Jianghuai area.
The land of Shuyue was deserted.
King Man of Korea was from Yan.
In the early days of Danguo, he captured the Zhenflies and Qipans and made them surrender. They also set up officials and built defensive fortresses there.
After the destruction of Youyou, Huangdao became the outer territory of Liao Saipad.
After the establishment of Han, because the emperor's territory was far away and difficult to defend, the original frontier castle of Yaliaodong County was rebuilt. The east was bounded by the Yan River, and the west of the Ju River belonged to the Yan Kingdom of the Han Dynasty.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled against the Han Dynasty and fled to the Xiongnu. Wei Man also fled. He gathered more than a thousand tribesmen, dressed in barbarian clothes, and fled eastward through the border fortress. They lived in the upper and lower castles in the empty land of the original Qin Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Gao, when the world had just been peaceful, the prefect of Liaodong County agreed that Wei Man would serve as a foreign minister to manage the barbarian tribes outside the Great Wall and prevent them from harassing the border areas. If the barbarian princes wanted to go to court to pay homage to the emperor, they should not obstruct them.
The prefect reported this agreement to the emperor, and the emperor agreed. Therefore, Weiman was able to use force and property to invade and subjugate the surrounding small barbarian countries. Zhenfan and Lintun all came to submit, and thousands of miles around were under Weiman's control.
After Wei Man's death, the throne passed to his grandson Wei Youqu through his son. The number of refugees from the Han Dynasty attracted by North Korea increased, and the King of North Korea had never visited the court to see the emperor. The princes of Zhenfan and Chen wanted to submit a letter to see the emperor, but they were blocked by North Korea and were not allowed to go.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the Han Dynasty sent He He to give instructions to Youqu, but Youqu always refused to accept the emperor's edict.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
何去至界，临浿水，使驭刺杀送何者朝鲜裨王长，即渡水，驰入塞，遂归报天子曰 杀朝鲜将 。
上为其名美，弗诘，拜何为辽东东部都尉。
朝鲜怨何，发兵袭攻，杀何。
天子募罪人击朝鲜。
其秋，遣楼船将军杨仆从齐浮勃海，兵五万，左将军荀彘出辽东，诛右渠。
右渠发兵距险。左将军卒多率辽东士兵先纵，败散。
多还走，坐法斩。
楼船将齐兵七千人先至王险。
右渠城守，窥知楼船军少，即出击楼船，楼船军败走。
将军仆失其众，遁山中十余日，稍求收散卒，复聚。
左将军击朝鲜浿水西军，未能破。
天子为两将未有利，乃使卫山因兵威往谕右渠。
右渠见使者，顿首谢： 愿降，恐将诈杀臣；今见信节，请服降。
遣太子入谢，献马五千匹，及馈军粮。
人众万余持兵，方度浿水，使者及左将军疑其为变，谓太子已服降，宜令人毋持兵，太子亦疑使者左将军诈之，遂不度浿水，复引归。
山报，天子诛山。
左将军破浿水上军乃前至城下，围其西北。
楼船亦往会，居城南。
右渠遂坚城守，数月未能下。
左将军素侍中，幸，将燕，代卒，悍，乘胜，军多骄。
楼船将齐卒，入海已多败亡，其先与右渠战，困辱亡卒，卒皆恐，将心惭，其围右渠，常持和节。
translation: 
Shehe left North Korea, walked to the border, and when he came to the shore of the Yan River, he ordered the driver to assassinate the young North Korean king who was escorting him. Then he immediately crossed the Dian River, drove into the fortress, and returned to the court to report to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty that he had killed a North Korean general.
Emperor Wu believed that Shehe had a good reputation for killing enemies, so he refused to blame him and appointed Shehe as the eastern captain of Liaodong County.
North Korea resented Shehe and sent troops to attack and killed Shehe.
Emperor Wu recruited imprisoned criminals, pardoned their crimes, and allowed them to attack North Korea.
In the autumn of the first year of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent general Yang Pu and 50,000 soldiers from Qijunzhi across Bohai. General Xun Shen of the left sent troops from Liaodong to jointly attack Wei Youqu.
Youqu sent troops to seize the strategic location. A soldier named Duo under General Zuo was leading the Liaodong troops to take the lead. The troops were defeated and dispersed.
Duo turned around and ran away, but was beheaded according to military law.
General Lou Chuan led 7,000 soldiers to Wangxian City first.
You Qu commanded the defense of the city. When he found out that General Lou Chuan had few soldiers, he went out to attack General Lou Chuan's troops. General Lou Chuan's troops were defeated and fled.
General Yang Pu lost his troops and fled to the mountains. He stayed there for more than ten days, gradually looking for and gathering the scattered soldiers, and regrouped.
General Zuo attacked the Korean army west of the Yan River but was unable to win.
Because the two generals were unfavorable in the battle, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Weishan to North Korea to persuade Youqu to surrender by using his military power.
When Youqu saw the envoy of the Han Dynasty, he kowtowed and apologized, saying: I am willing to surrender, but I am afraid that the two generals will kill me through deception. Now that I have seen the real talisman, please allow me to surrender.
He sent the prince to the court to apologize, donated 5,000 horses, and presented military rations to the Han army in Korea.
North Korea sent 10,000 soldiers with weapons to escort the prince. Just as he was about to go through tears, envoy Wei Shan and General Xun Zhi, the left general, suspected that the North Korean army was going to cause rebellion, so they said: Since the prince has surrendered, the soldiers who came to escort him should be ordered not to carry weapons. The prince also suspected that the envoy and General Zuo were setting up a trap to kill him, so he did not cross Shishui and returned with his troops.
Wei Shan came back to report to the emperor, and the emperor killed Wei Shan.
General Xun Shen of the left defeated the Korean army guarding Nianshui, marched forward, drove to the foot of Wangxian City, and surrounded the northwest side of the city.
General Lou Chuan also went to join forces and stationed himself in the south of the city.
Youqu then held on to the city, and the Han army failed to capture Wangxian City for several months.
General Xun Shen of the left was originally a servant and was favored by the emperor. The Yan and Dai soldiers he led were very strong. They had just won the battle of the Dian River. Many soldiers in the army were arrogant and underestimated the enemy.
The Qi soldiers led by General Yang Pu of Louzhou had many people fleeing when they crossed the sea. He fought with Youqu first and suffered a disastrous defeat. He also lost many soldiers. The soldiers were afraid of the enemy and the general felt ashamed. Therefore, he besieged Youqu, often with the purpose of making peace.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
左将军急击之，朝鲜大臣乃阴间使人私约降楼船，往来言，尚未肯决。
左将军数与楼船期战，楼船欲就其约，不会。
左将军亦使人求间隙降下朝鲜，不肯，心附楼船。以故两将不相得。
左将军心意楼船前有失军罪，今与朝鲜和善而又不降，疑其有反计，未敢发。
天子曰： 将率不能前，乃使卫山谕降右渠，不能颛决，与左将军相误，卒沮约。
今两将围城又乖异，以故久不决。
使故济南太守公孙遂往正之，有便宜得以从事。
遂至，左将军曰： 朝鲜当下久矣，不下者，楼船数期不会。
具以素所意告遂曰： 今如此不取，恐为大害，非独楼船，又且与朝鲜共灭吾军。
遂亦以为然，而以节召楼船将军入左将军军计事，即令左将军戏下执缚楼船将军，并其军。
以报，天子诛遂。
左将军已并两军，即急击朝鲜。
朝鲜相路人、相韩陶、尼溪相参、将军王唊相与谋曰： 始欲降楼船，楼船今执，独左将军并将，战益急，恐不能与，王又不肯降。
陶、唊、路人皆亡降汉。
路人道死。
元封三年夏，尼溪相参乃使人杀朝鲜王右渠来降。
王险城未下，故右渠之大臣成已又反，复攻吏。
左将军使右渠子长、降相路人子最，告谕其民，诛成已。故遂定朝鲜为真番、临屯、乐浪、玄菟四郡。
封参为澅清侯，陶为秋苴侯，唊为平州侯，长为几侯。
最以父死颇有功，为沮阳侯。
左将军征至，坐争功相嫉乖计，弃市。
楼船将军亦坐兵至列口当待左将军，擅先纵，失亡多，当诛，赎为庶人。
translation: 
General Zuo stormed Wangxian City, and the North Korean ministers secretly sent people to secretly agree to surrender to General Lou Chuan. They sent messages back and forth, but no final decision was made.
General Zuo repeatedly agreed with General Lou Chuan on the time to attack the city, but General Lou Chuan wanted to fulfill his agreement with the North Korean minister as soon as possible, so he always refused to join forces with General Zuo.
General Zuo also sent people to look for opportunities to surrender North Korea, but the North Korean ministers refused to surrender to General Zuo and were willing to submit to General Louchuan. Therefore, Generals Yang and Xun could not get along well with each other.
General Zuo suspected that General Lou Chuan had committed the crime of losing his army first, and now that he was on good terms with North Korea but North Korea refused to surrender, he might have a conspiracy to betray the Han Dynasty, but he had not yet taken action.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty said: The general could not break the enemy's advance, so I sent Weishan to persuade Youqu to surrender. Weishan could not be arbitrary, but made things worse with General Zuo, and finally broke the agreement of Youqu's surrender.
Now the two generals are besieging Wangxian City and cannot work together, so the problem has not been solved for a long time.
So Gongsun Sui, the former prefect of Jinan County, was sent to correct the mistakes of the two generals, and he could act flexibly according to the situation.
Gongsun then arrived in North Korea. General Xun Shen of the Left said: North Korea should have been captured long ago. The reason why it could not be captured was that General Lou Chuan repeatedly failed to meet up as scheduled.
He also told Gongsun Sui in detail that he had always suspected that General Lou Chuan was planning to rebel. He also said: The situation is so serious now. If we don't arrest him, he may become a big harm. General Lou Chuan will not only rebel against the Han Dynasty, but he will also join forces with North Korea to destroy our army.
Gongsun Sui also thought this was the case, so he used talismans to invite General Lou Chuan to General Zuo's camp in the name of "discussing military affairs". He then ordered General Zuo's subordinates to capture him and merge his troops under General Zuo's command.
Gongsun Sui reported the matter to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, who killed Gongsun Sui.
After General Zuo had unified the two armies, he immediately attacked the Korean army.
Joseon Prime Minister Luren, Han Tao, Ni Xiangcan, and General Wang Xia discussed with each other: Originally we wanted to surrender to General Lou Chuan, but now General Lou Chuan has been captured, and only General Zuo will unite the two armies, and the battle will become more intense. I am afraid we are no match for him, and our king refuses to surrender.
So Han Tao, Wang Ying, and passers-by all fled to the Han Dynasty military camp and surrendered.
Passers-by died on the way.
In the summer of the third year of Yuanfeng, Nixi Xiangcan sent people to assassinate King Youqu of Korea and came to the Han camp to surrender.
Before Wang Xiancheng was captured, the ministers who turned out to be Youqu rebelled again and attacked the disobedient officials.
Taosu, the general of the left, sent You Qu's son Wei Chang and Lu Zui, the son of a North Korean minister who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, to inform the people of North Korea and killed Cheng Ji, thus finally pacifying North Korea and setting up four counties: Zhenfan, Lintun, Lelang and Xuantu.
In the Han Dynasty, Shen was granted the title of Marquis of Pingqing, Han Tao was the Marquis of Qiuju, Wangxia was the Marquis of Pingzhou, and the Chief of Guard was the Marquis of Ji.
Lu Zui was named Marquis of Juyang because his father Lu Ren died on the way to surrender to the Han Dynasty and he was very meritorious.
Xun Shen, the general of the left, was recalled to the court and was beheaded in public for the crime of competing for power, jealousy of power, and violating military plans.
General Yang Pu also thought that he should wait for General Zuo after he led his army to the column, but he attacked first without authorization, causing serious losses and was sentenced to death. He paid for his sin and was spared from death and became a civilian.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
赞曰：楚、粤之先，历世有土。
及周之衰，楚地方五千里，而勾践亦以粤伯。
秦灭诸侯，唯楚尚有滇王。
汉诛西南夷，独滇复宠。
及东粤灭国迁众，繇王居股等犹为万户侯。
三方之开，皆自好事之臣。
故西南夷发于唐蒙、司马相如，两粤起严助、朱买臣，朝鲜由涉何。
遭世富盛，动能成功，然已勤矣。
追观太宗填抚尉佗，岂古所谓 招携以礼，怀远以德 者哉！
translation: 
Zan said: The ancestors of Chu and Guangdong have had feudal lands for generations.
By the time of Dansu's decline, Chu's territory had a radius of five thousand miles, and Bao Jian also dominated the princes with Guangdong.
Qin swallowed up all the princes, but Chu still had this king.
The Han Dynasty punished the southwestern barbarians, but only the sea bream was favored again.
When Sai Yuedan was destroyed and migrated, Biyan Zhoupan and others were still granted the title of Wanhuhou.
The development of the three parties was initiated by ministers of good deeds.
Therefore, the expansion of southwestern barbarians began with the advocacy of Tang Meng and Sima Xiangru, the expansion of Guangdong and Guangdong began with the initiative of Yan Zhu and Zhu Maichen, and the expansion of Korea was triggered by Shen He.
It was a time when the country was rich and the army was strong, so every operation was successful, but it also came at a considerable price.
Looking back at Taizong and Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty comforting Zhao Tuo, isn't it just like what the ancients said: using courtesy to attract people with two minds, and using virtue to attract people who rely on danger!


