Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫人含天地阴阳之灵，有哀乐喜怒之情。
乃圣垂范，以为民极，节其骄淫，以防其暴乱；崇高天地，虔敬鬼神，列尊卑之序，成夫妇之义，然后为国为家，可得而治也。
《传》曰： 一日克己复礼，天下归仁。
若乃太一初分，燧人钻火，志有暢于恭俭，情不由乎玉帛，而酌玄流于春涧之右，焚封豕于秋林之外，亦无得而阙焉。
轩顼依神，唐虞稽古，逮乎隆周，其文大备。
或垂百官之范，置不刊之法；或礼经三百，威仪三千，皆所以弘宣天意，雕刻人理。
叔代浇讹，王风陵谢，事睽光国，礼亦愆家。
赵简子问太叔以揖让周旋之礼，对曰： 盖所谓仪而非礼也。
天经地义之道，自兹尤缺。
translation: 
Human beings contain the spiritual energy between yin and yang of heaven and earth, and have emotions of sadness, joy, joy and anger.
The sages passed down their examples as standards for the people. Control their arrogance to prevent them from rioting; worship heaven and earth, worship ghosts and gods devoutly, arrange the order of honor and inferiority, and establish the moral principles of husband and wife, and then the country and family can be governed well.
"Biography" says: For one day, if one restrains oneself and returns to ritual, the world will return to benevolence.
Since the beginning of the world, the Sui people have drilled wood to make fire. Their ambitions have been modesty and frugality. Their feelings do not care about jade and silk. Instead, they drink the clear water on the banks of streams in spring, and set fires near forests in autumn to drive away hogs. There is nothing imperfect about it.
Xuanyuan and Zhuanxu obeyed the gods, and Yao and Yushun of Tang Dynasty investigated the archaeological system. It was passed to the prosperous Zhou Dynasty, and the regulations and systems were greatly completed.
It not only left an example of setting up hundreds of officials and formulated unchangeable laws and regulations; it also had 300 rules on etiquette and 3,000 kinds of rituals, all of which were used to promote and spread the will of God and adjust and standardize human behavior.
At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the world's social customs changed, the king's rule declined, things went against the traditions of a beautiful country, and even the way of running a family in etiquette was lost.
Chang Jianzi asked Taishu about the etiquette of yielding and dealing with others, and he replied: "That can only be called a ceremony but not a true etiquette."
The truth that is a matter of course has been ignored ever since.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
哀公十一年，孔子自卫反鲁，迹三代之典，垂百王之训，时无明后，道噎不行。
若夫情尚分流，堤防之仁是弃；浇讹异术，洙泗之风斯泯。
是以汉文罢再期之丧，中兴为一郊之祭，随时之义，不其然欤！
而西京元鼎之辰，中兴永平之日，疏璧流而延冠带，启儒门而引诸生，两京之盛，于斯为美。
及山鱼登俎，泽豕睽经，礼乐恆委，浮华相尚，而郊禋之制，纲纪或存。
魏氏光宅，宪章斯美。
王肃、高堂隆之徒，博通前载，三千条之礼，十七篇之学，各以旧文增损当世，岂所谓致君于尧舜之道焉。
世属雕墙，时逢秕政，周因之典，务多违俗，而遗编残册，犹有可观者也。
景初元年，营洛阳南委粟山以为圆丘，祀之日以始祖帝舜配，房俎生鱼，陶樽玄酒，非搢绅为之纲纪，其孰能兴于此者哉！
宣景戎旅，未遑伊制。
太康平吴，九州共一，礼经咸至，乐器同归，于是齐鲁诸生，各携缃素。
武皇帝亦初平寇乱，意先仪范。
其吉礼也，则三茅不翦，日观停瑄；其凶礼也，则深衣布冠，降席撤膳。
明乎一谦三益之义，而教化行焉。
元皇中兴，事多权道，遗文旧典，不断如发。
translation: 
In the eleventh year of Duke Ai, Confucius returned to Lu from Wei, studied the models of the three generations, and wrote down the lessons of hundreds of kings. At that time, there was no wise king, so his ideas could not be implemented.
If sentiment is allowed to develop, benevolence will inevitably be thrown aside; if heresy is allowed to cause trouble, the style of Confucianism may be excluded.
Therefore, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished the two-year mourning system, and Emperor Guangwu combined the suburban sacrifices into one.
This practice of catering to the current customs is not worthy of recognition. However, during the Yuanding period of the Western Han Dynasty and the Yongping era of the Shu Han Dynasty, they promoted education and respected the gentry, advocated Confucianism and appointed Confucian scholars. The prosperity of the two deserts era was the most beautiful in the Zao period.
Later, the small fish in the mountains became offerings in temples, and the wild boars in the swamp also went against the norm. The ritual and music system was abandoned for a long time, and the world advocated glitz, but the sacrificial etiquette was generally preserved.
During the Cao and Wei Dynasties, the rules and regulations were very good.
Wang Sheng, Gao Tanglong and others were erudite and well versed in the records of their predecessors, such as the three thousand articles of "Zhou Rites" and the seventeen articles of etiquette.
People hoped for great governance in the world, but what they caught up with at that time was not good governance. If the laws passed down from the Zhou Dynasty were used too much, they would violate the customs of the time, but the remaining chapters and books still have something for reference.
In the first year of Jingchu, a round mound was built on Weisu Mountain in the south of Luoyang. On the day of the sacrifice, the ancestor Emperor Shun was served as a meal. The jade sacrificial vessels contained fresh fish and the pottery vessels contained clear water. If the scholar-bureaucrats did not plan for him, then who could do these things!
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Jing went to war without having time to formulate a manufacturing system.
During the Lichen period, Chengxi was pacified, Kyushu was unified, etiquette books were centralized, musical instruments and sacrificial vessels were placed in one place, so Confucian scholars from the Qilu area came to seek refuge with their books.
Emperor Wu also wanted to promote etiquette and standards in order to put down the bandits and bandits.
In the auspicious sacrifices at that time, the three-ridged green grass was not trimmed, and in the Riguan Peak sacrifice to the sky, no large jade was used; in the funeral rites at that time, dark clothes and cloth crowns were worn, and the banquet was canceled and the meals were reduced.
Once the principle of Yi Qian and San Benefit is preached, education will be carried out.
When Emperor Yuan revitalized the Jin Dynasty, many affairs had to be dealt with expediently, and the previous rules and regulations were almost extinct.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是以常侍戴邈诣阙上疏云： 方今天地更始，万物权舆，荡近世之流弊，创千龄之英范。
是故双剑之节崇，而飞白之俗成；挟琴之容饰，而赴曲之和作。
其所以兴起礼文，劝帝身先之也。
穆哀之后，王猷渐替，桓温居揆，政由己出，而有司或曜斯文，增晖执事，主威长谢，臣道专行。
《记》曰， 苟无其位，不可以作礼乐 ，岂斯之谓欤！晋始则有荀顗、郑冲裁成国典，江左则有荀崧、刁协损益朝仪。
《周官》五礼，吉凶军宾嘉，而吉礼之大，莫过祭祀，故《洪范》八政，三日祀。
祀者，所以昭孝事祖，通于神明者也。
汉兴，承秦灭学之后，制度多未能复古。
历东、西京四百余年，故往往改变。
魏氏承汉末大乱，旧章殄灭，命侍中王粲、尚书卫顗草创朝仪。
及晋国建，文帝又命荀顗因魏代前事，撰为新礼，参考今古，更其节文，羊祜、任恺、庾峻、应贞并共刊定，成百六十五篇，奏之。
太康初，尚书仆射硃整奏付尚书郎挚虞讨论之。
虞表所宜损增曰：臣典校故太尉顗所撰《五礼》，臣以为夫革命以垂统，帝王之美事也，隆礼以率教，邦国之大务也，是以臣前表礼事稽留，求速讫施行。
translation: 
Therefore, Dai Miao, the constant attendant, submitted a seal to the court and said: When the earth is renewed, all things begin to prosper, sweeping away the evils of modern times, and setting an example for thousands of years.
Therefore, advocating loyalty and integrity creates cultural and educational customs; organizing the appearance of playing the piano can lead to harmonious resonance.
He wanted to use these to promote etiquette and civilization and encourage the emperor to lead by example.
Later, when the royal power declined and Li Guo came to power, he issued political orders himself, but the relevant officials tarnished the civility and whitewashed the powerful ministers. The emperor's prestige was ruined, and the ministers did whatever they wanted.
"Ji" says: Without fame and position, it is impossible to promote rituals and music. Could it be that this is the case? At the beginning of the burial period, Bao Su and Qian Yi formulated national regulations, and during the period of the burial period, Bao Pi and Wang Xie revised the court etiquette.
There are five types of etiquette in "Zhou Guan", namely auspicious etiquette, unlucky etiquette, military etiquette, guest etiquette, and honorable etiquette. Among them, the most important auspicious etiquette is sacrifice, so the third of the eight political affairs in "Hongfan" is called sacrificial ceremony.
Sacrifice is a way to express filial piety, serve ancestors, and communicate with gods.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty and the destruction of Confucianism by the Qin Dynasty, many aspects of the system have not been able to return to the way they were in ancient times.
After more than 400 years in Tokyo and Xijing, there have been many changes.
The Wei Dynasty followed the chaos at the end of the Han Dynasty, and the old regulations were completely destroyed. Wang Can and Wei Jian, the ministers, were ordered to draft and formulate court etiquette.
After the establishment of the Jin Dynasty, Emperor Wen ordered Xunjie to follow what had been done in the Wei Dynasty and write a new etiquette system. Taking into account the situation at that time and the ancient dispatch system, he changed the chapters and articles in it. Yang Ku, Ren Kai, Yu Jun, and Ying Zhen jointly reviewed it and made it into 165 chapters, which were presented to the emperor.
In the early years of Taikang, Shangshu Pushe Zhu Zheng submitted a memorial request to Shangshu Lang Zhiyu for consideration.
Zhiyu wrote a memorial regarding the changes that should be made: I compiled the "Five Rites" compiled by the late Taiwei Xun Pin. I believe that it is a beautiful thing for an emperor to create an emperor's legacy and pass it on to future generations; it is a major event to govern a country by making the etiquette prosperous and guiding education. Therefore, my previous statement on etiquette matters was delayed, so please implement it as soon as possible.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
又以《丧服》最多疑阙，宜见补定。
又以今礼篇卷烦重，宜随类通合。
事久不出，惧见寝嘿。
盖冠婚祭会诸吉礼，其制少变；至于《丧服》，世之要用，而特易失旨。
故子张疑高宗谅阴三年，子思不听其子服出母，子游谓异父昆弟大功，而子夏谓之齐衰，及孔子没而门人疑于所服。
此等皆明达习礼，仰读周典，俯师仲尼，渐渍圣训，讲肄积年，及遇丧事，尤尚若此，明丧礼易惑，不可不详也。
况自此已来，篇章焚散，去圣弥远，丧制诡谬，固其宜矣。
是以《丧服》一卷，卷不盈握，而争说纷然。
三年之丧，郑云二十七月，王云二十五月。
改葬之服，郑云服缌三月，王云葬讫而除。
继母出嫁，郑云皆服，王云从乎继寄育乃为之服。
无服之殇，郑云子生一月哭之一日，王云以哭之日易服之月。
如此者甚众。
《丧服》本文省略，必待注解事义乃彰；其传说差详，世称子夏所作。
郑王祖《经》宗《传》，而各有异同，天下并疑，莫知所定，而顗直书古《经》文而已，尽除子夏《传》及先儒注说，其事不可得行。
translation: 
It is also believed that the part of "Mourning Clothes" contains the most doubts and should be supplemented and confirmed.
He also believes that the current ritual system is too long and should be classified and merged.
The memorial had not been approved for a long time, so I was afraid of being ignored.
For auspicious rituals such as wedding ceremonies, there have been few changes in the relevant system; as for "mourning clothes", they are very commonly used in daily life, but they are particularly easy to lose their essence.
Therefore, Zi Zhang suspected that Gaozong had been in mourning for three years without speaking. Zi Si did not allow his son to mourn for his biological mother who had been abandoned. Zi You believed that half-brothers should mourn each other, but Zi Xia believed that Qi Xi should mourn. After Confucius died, his disciples did not understand how to mourn.
These people were all smart and well-versed in studying etiquette. They read the laws of the Zhou Dynasty at first and studied with Zhongni at the lower end. They were immersed in the precepts of saints and studied for many years. However, they still behaved like this when they encountered funerals. This shows that funerals are easy to be confused and must be treated carefully.
What's more, since then, the scriptures have been burned and scattered, and they have become further away from the saints. It is natural that there are errors in the mourning system.
Therefore, the volume of "Mourning Clothes" is less than one volume, but there are many arguments and explanations.
For the three-year mourning period, Zheng Xuan said it was twenty-seven months, and Wang Su said it was twenty-five months.
Zheng Xuan said that the mourning clothes should be worn for three months after the burial, while Wang Su said that they would not be worn as soon as the funeral was over.
After the remarried stepmother passed away, Zheng Xuan said that she should be mourned, while Wang Su said that he should live with his stepmother in other people's homes and be raised before mourning for her.
For children who died under the age of eight, Zheng Xuan said that after the child was born for a month, he would cry for a day, and Wang Lu said that the day of crying should be changed to mourning for a month.
There are many situations like this.
The text of "Mourning Clothes" is very brief, and annotations are needed to understand its content. Later generations' explanations are not detailed, and the world thinks it was written by Zixia.
Zheng Xuan and Wang Su took the "Jing" and "Zhuan" as the basis, but they have similarities and differences. Everyone in the world can't figure it out, and no one knows which one is correct. However, Xunti only wrote down the ancient "Jing" text, completely deleting Wang Xia's "Biography" and the annotations of the previous generations of Confucian scholars. It was impossible to implement it.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及其行事，故当还颁异说，一彼一此，非所以定制也。
臣以为今宜参采《礼记》，略取《传》说，补其未备，一其殊义。
可依准王景侯所撰《丧服变除》，使类统明正，以断疑争，然后制无二门，咸同所由。
又此礼当班于天下，不宜繁多。
顗为百六十五篇，篇为一卷，合十五余万言，臣犹谓卷多文烦，类皆重出。
案《尚书·尧典》祀山川之礼，惟于东岳备称牲币之数，陈所用之仪，其余则但曰 如初 。
《周礼》祀天地五帝享先王，其事同者皆曰 亦如之 ，文约而义举。
今礼仪事同而名异者，辄别为篇，卷烦而不典。
皆宜省文通事，随类合之，事有不同，乃列其异。
如此，所减三分之一。
虞讨论新礼讫，以元康元年上之。
translation: 
When it comes to applying it to specific things, naturally there will be different explanations. One says this and the other says this. It cannot be used to determine the system.
I believe that we should now refer to the "Book of Rites" and appropriately select the statements in the "Zhuan" to make up for its shortcomings and unify the differences.
We can make the regulations clear according to the "Mourning Clothes Change" written by Wang Xingbao, so as to eradicate doubts and disputes, and then make the system have no two forms, all based on the same regulations.
In addition, the etiquette of dispatching the Ministry must be promulgated throughout the world, so it should not be too complicated.
The title is set at 165 articles, each of which is a volume, with a total of more than 150,000 words. I still think that the volumes are full of complicated words and most of them are repetitive.
Let's take a look at the rituals of sacrificing mountains and rivers in "Shang Shu Yao Dian". It only lists the number of sacrifices and coins in detail for Dongyue, and describes the rituals used. The rest is just as before.
"The Rites of Zhou" records the rituals for offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors of Heaven and Earth and for the enjoyment of the ancestors. The same things are mentioned only as "and it is the same". The language is simple and the meaning is clear.
Nowadays, if the ritual situation is the same but the name is different, it is divided into separate chapters. The volumes are numerous and unclear.
You should omit the verbal communication categories and merge them according to the situation. If the things are different, list their differences.
In this case, one-third is subtracted.
After Dian Yu refined the new etiquette regulations, he submitted them in the first year of Yuankang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
所陈惟明堂五帝、二社六宗及吉凶王公制度，凡十五篇。
有诏可其议。
后虞与傅咸缵续其事，竟未成功。中原覆没，虞之《决疑注》，是其遗事也。
逮于江左，仆射刁协、太常荀崧补缉旧文，光禄大夫蔡谟又踵修其事云。
魏明帝太和元年正月丁未，郊祀武帝以配天，宗祀文帝于明堂以配上帝。
于是时，二汉郊禋之制具存，魏所损益可知。
四年八月，天子东巡，过繁昌，使执金吾臧霸行太尉事，以特牛祠受禅坛。
景初元年十月乙卯，始营洛阳南委粟山为圜丘。
诏曰： 昔汉氏之初，承秦灭学之后，采摭残缺，以备郊祀。
translation: 
He proposed only the system of the Mingtang and the Five Emperors, the Second Society and the Six Sects, and the good and bad princes, a total of fifteen articles.
An edict came down to approve his proposal.
Later, Cian Yan and Tan Sheng continued to engage in this work, but ultimately failed. After the fall of the Central Plains, Zhi Yu's "Annotation on Jue Sui" became a news item at that time.
During the Eastern Jin Dynasty, Pushe Diao Xie and Taichang Baosheng supplemented and compiled old documents, and Cai Mo, the Guanglu doctor, continued to do this work.
At the end of the first month of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty, Emperor Wu was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of heaven.
At that time, the system in the suburbs of the Han Dynasty still existed, and the additions and losses made to it by Wei were very clear.
In the eighth month of the fourth year, the emperor went to the east for inspection and passed by Fanchang. He sent Zang Ba, the governor of Jinwu, to handle the affairs of the Taiwei on his behalf and sacrificed a bull to the Zen altar.
In the tenth month of the first year of Jingchu (Yimao), we began to build round mounds on Weisu Mountain in the south of Luoyang.
Shaoling said: In the early years of the Western Han Dynasty, after the Qin Dynasty burned books and harassed Confucian scholars, the remaining documents were collected for the purpose of offering sacrifices to heaven and earth.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
自甘泉后土，雍宫五畤，神祗兆位，多不经见，并以兴废无常，一彼一此，四百余年，废无禘礼，古代之所更立者，遂有阙焉。
曹氏世系，出自有虞氏。
今祀圜丘以始祖帝舜配，号圜丘曰皇皇帝天。
方丘所祭曰皇皇后地，以舜妃伊氏配。
天郊所祭曰皇天之神，以太祖武皇帝配。
地郊所祭曰皇地之祗，以武宣皇后配。
宗祀皇考高祖文皇帝于明堂，以配上帝。
十二月壬子冬至，始祀皇皇帝天于圜丘，以始祖有虞帝舜配。
自正始以后，终魏世不复郊祀。
魏元帝咸熙二年十二月甲子，使持节侍中太保郑冲、兼太尉司隶校尉李憙奉皇帝玺绶策书，禅位于晋。
丙寅，武皇帝设坛场于南郊，柴燎告类于上帝，是时尚未有祖配。
泰始二年正月，诏曰： 有司前奏郊祀权用魏礼，朕不虑改作之难，令便为永制，众议纷互，遂不时定，不得以时供飨神祗，配以祖考。
translation: 
From the Houtu of Ganquan to the Wuzhi of Yong, many of the altars and positions of the gods are uncommon. This is because there are no routines in setting up and abolishing them. They are like this at one time and this way at another. For more than four hundred years, there has been no etiquette for sacrifices. Things that have happened in ancient times have been missing.
The lineage of Zhizhi was passed down from Zhaxianzhi.
Nowadays, Yuanqiu is worshiped as the ancestor Emperor Shun, and Yuanqiu is called Emperor Huangtian.
Those who worshiped at Fangqiu were called Huanghuangdi, and they were shared by Shun's concubine Yishi.
Those worshiped in Tianjiao are called the Gods of Huangtian, and they are entitled to the emperor Taizu Wu.
Those who offer sacrifices on the outskirts of the country are called the Emperor's Only, and they are shared by Queen Wuxuan.
Emperor Gao Zuwen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of enjoying heaven.
On the winter solstice of Renzi in December, the emperor was worshiped in Yuanqiu for the first time, sharing the emperor's love with the ancestor.
From the beginning until the end of the Wei Dynasty, there were no more suburban sacrifices.
In the twelfth month of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, he sent the minister Chijie, the Taibao Hexin, and the Taiwei Sili Xiaowei Kuitai to hold the emperor's jade seal and policy book and give the Zen throne to the Jin Dynasty.
In Bingyin, Emperor Wu set up a mandala in the southern suburbs, burned firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, and reported to heaven. At that time, there was no ancestor sharing.
In the first month of the second year of Taishi, Shaoling said: A minister had previously discussed the timing of suburban sacrifices and the application of Wei etiquette. I thought it would be difficult to re-enact it, so I implemented it as a custom. As a result, there were many discussions, and it was not determined in time. It was impossible to serve the gods on time and use the ancestor test to share the enjoyment.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
日夕难企，贬食忘安，其便郊祀。
时群臣又议，五帝即天也，王气时异，故殊其号，虽名有五，其实一神。
明堂南郊，宜除五帝之坐，五郊改五精之号，皆同称昊天上帝，各设一坐而已。
地郊又除先后配祀。
帝悉从之。
二月丁丑，郊礼宣皇帝以配天，宗祀文皇帝于明堂以配上帝。
是年十一月，有司又议奏，古者丘郊不异，宜并圆丘方丘于南北郊，更修立坛兆，其二至之祀合于二郊。
帝又从之，一如宣帝所用王肃议也。
是月庚寅冬至，帝亲祠圆丘于南郊。
自是后，圆丘方泽不别立。
太康三年正月，帝亲郊祀，皇太子、皇子悉侍祠。
translation: 
It is difficult to catch up with the passage of time, and it is difficult to feel at ease if the offerings to the gods and ancestors are reduced, so it is better to worship in the suburbs immediately.
At that time, the officials discussed that the five emperors were the heavens, and the king's Qi changed with time, so the names were different, but they were actually the same god.
When worshiping in Mingtang and worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs, the gods of the Five Emperors should be removed. In the Five Suburbs, the titles of the five spirits related to the stars of the five directions should be changed. They are all collectively called the God of Haotian and each has a god.
In the outskirts of the country, the practice of worshiping one after another was eliminated.
The emperor unanimously agreed.
On Ding Chou in the second month, Emperor Xuan was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of enjoying heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of enjoying God.
In November of this year, a minister made another proposal, saying that in ancient times, building mounds and conducting suburban sacrifices were consistent. Round mounds and square mounds should be built in both the southern and northern suburbs, and mandalas should be built, and the sacrifices during the summer and winter solstice should be merged into the second suburbs.
The emperor agreed again, just like Emperor Xuan adopted Wang Lu's proposal.
This month's Gengyin day is the winter solstice, and the emperor personally worships heaven in the southern suburbs.
From then on, Yuanqiu and Fangze were no longer set up separately.
In the first month of the third year of Taikang, the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the suburbs, and all the princes and princes attended the sacrifices.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
十年十月，又诏曰： 《孝经》 郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝。
而《周官》云 祀天旅上帝 ，又曰 祀地旅四望 。
望非地，则明堂上帝不得为天也。
往者众议除明堂五帝位，考之礼文不正。
且《诗序》曰 文武之功，起于后稷 ，故推以配天焉。
宣帝以神武创业，既已配天，复以先帝配天，于义亦所不安。
其复明堂及南郊五帝位。
愍帝都长安，未及立郊庙而败。
元帝渡江，太兴二年始议立郊祀仪。
尚书令刁协、国子祭酒杜夷议，宜须旋都洛邑乃修之。
司徒荀组据汉献帝都许即便立郊，自宜于此修奉。
骠骑王导、仆射荀崧、太常华恆、中书侍郎庾亮皆同组议，事遂施行，立南郊于已地。
translation: 
In October of the tenth year, another edict was issued saying that the "Book of Filial Piety" said that Hou Ji was used to enjoy the heaven during the suburban sacrifice, and Sai Wang was used in the Mingtang to enjoy the heaven during the ancestral sacrifice.
However, "Zhou Guan" says that when offering sacrifices to heaven, one is ranked as God, and when offering sacrifices to earth, one is ranked among the mountains and rivers in all directions.
Mountains and rivers are not equal to the earth, so the God of Mingtang cannot be equal to the sky.
In the past, people proposed to remove the Five Emperors’ statues in the Mingtang, but this was incorrect based on the inspection of etiquette documents.
Moreover, the "Preface to Poetry" says that King Gendou's achievements began with Hou Mo, so he was promoted to be worthy of heaven.
Emperor Xuan started his business with his divine martial arts and was already worthy of heaven. It is logically inappropriate to use the late emperor to claim heaven.
Or restore the throne of the Five Emperors in Mingtang and Southern Suburbs.
The fallen boy established his capital in Dansai, but failed before he could even build a suburban temple.
After Wutong crossed the Liao Dynasty, it was not until the second year of Zhuxing that we began to discuss the establishment of suburban sacrificial rituals.
Shangshu Ling Diao Xie and Guozi Jijiu Du Yi suggested that they should wait until they return to the capital to steal the day.
Situ Baosu set up suburban sacrifices as much as possible as soon as he moved the capital based on his selection, thinking that the sacrifices should naturally be performed locally.
General Wang Dao, Pushe Xunsong, Taichang Huayuan, and Zhongshu Shilang Lihu all agreed to Ganzhu's proposal, so the matter was implemented and the southern suburbs were established in Sidi.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其制度皆太常贺循所定，多依汉及晋初之仪。
三月辛卯，帝亲郊祀，飨配之礼一依武帝始郊故事。
是时尚未立北坛，地祗众神共在天郊。
明帝太宁三年七月，始诏立北郊，未及建而帝崩。
及成帝咸和八年正月，追述前旨，于覆舟山南立之。
天郊则五帝之佐、日月、五星、二十八宿、文昌、北斗、三台、司命、轩辕、后土、太一、天一、太微、句陈、北极、雨师、雷电、司空、风伯、老人，凡六十二神也。
地郊则五岳、四望、四海、四渎、五湖、五帝之佐、沂山、岳山、白山、霍山、医无闾山、蒋山、松江、会稽山、钱唐江、先农，凡四十四神也。
江南诸小山，盖江左所立，犹如汉西京关中小水皆有祭秩也。
是月辛未，祀北郊，始以宣穆张皇后配，此魏氏故事，非晋旧也。
康帝建元元年正月，将北郊，有疑议。
太常顾和表： 泰始中，合二至之礼于二郊。
北郊之月，古无明文，或以夏至，或同用阳月。
汉光武正月辛未，始建北郊，此则与南郊同月。
及中兴草创，百度从简，合七郊于一丘，宪章未备，权用斯礼，盖时宜也。
至咸和中，议别立北郊，同用正月。
魏承后汉，正月祭天以地配。
时高堂隆等以为礼祭天不以地配，而称《周礼》三王之郊一用夏正。
translation: 
The system at that time was formulated by Taichang He Dun, and most of it was in accordance with the rituals of Zhenhe and the early Jin Dynasty.
On the Xinmao day of the second month, the emperor personally performed a sacrifice in the countryside, and the etiquette and regulations regarding food and drinks were all in accordance with the previous situation of Genshu Tong's first sacrifice in the countryside.
At that time, the North Altar had not yet been set up, and all the gods on earth were placed together with the gods.
In July of the third year, an edict was issued to establish the northern suburbs. Before it could be established, Emperor Ming died.
In the first month of the eighth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, in memory of the previous generation's will, he established it in the south of Fuzhou Mountain.
When worshiping the sky, there are five emperors and other gods: sun, moon, five stars, twenty-eight constellations, Wenchang, Beidou, Santai, Siming, Xuanyuan, Houtu, Taiyi, Tianyi, Taiwei, Gouchen, Beiji, Yushi, Leiden, Sikong, Fengbo and the old man, a total of sixty-two gods.
When offering sacrifices to the ground, there are forty-four gods in total: Wuyue, Siwang, Sihai, Sidu, Wuhu, Five Emperors, Zuochen of the Five Emperors, Yishan, Yueshan, Baishan, Huoshan, Yiwutitleshan, Lanshan, Chaxun, Hedengshan, Qianluliao and Xiannong.
The sacred thrones on the hills in the south of the Yangtze River were all established during the Shu and Jin Dynasties, just like the small rivers in Guanzhong during the Xijing period of the Han Dynasty had sacrificial positions.
At Xinwei of this month, sacrifices were held in the northern suburbs and began to be shared by Queen Xuanmu and Zhang. This was a precedent from the Wei Dynasty, not the old system of the Jin Dynasty.
In the first month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, he planned to offer sacrifices in the northern suburbs, but there was some doubtful discussion.
Taichang Guhe said in the table: During the Taishi period, the sacrifices of the winter and summer solstice were merged into the suburban sacrifices of the heaven and earth.
The time in the northern suburbs has no explicit regulations handed down from ancient times. Some are on the summer solstice, and some are on the winter solstice when Yang Qi returns.
At the end of the first month of the first lunar month of Guangwu in the Han Dynasty, the northern suburbs ceremony began, and it was the same month as the southern suburbs ceremony.
After the ZTE, various systems were simplified, and the seven suburban rituals were combined into one place. The charter regulations have not yet been fully formulated, so it is appropriate to apply such rituals temporarily.
In the Xianhe year, it was agreed to establish another northern suburb, which was also carried out in the first month.
The Wei Dynasty inherited the system of offering sacrifices to heaven in the first month and using the land to share the benefits.
At that time, Gao Tangjian and others believed that according to the etiquette and regulations, no land should be used to worship the sky. They also praised that in "The Rites of Zhou", the suburban sacrifices of the three kings all used the lunar calendar.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
于是从和议。
是月辛未南郊，辛已北郊，帝皆亲奉。
安帝元兴三年，刘裕讨桓玄，走之。已卯，告义功于南郊。
是年，帝蒙尘江陵未反。
其明年应郊，朝议以为宜依《周礼》，宗伯摄职，三公行事。
尚书左丞王纳之独曰： 既殡郊祀，自是天子当阳，有君存焉，禀命而行，何所辩也。
郊之兴否，岂如今日之比乎！
议者又云： 今宜郊，故是承制所得令三公行事。
又 郊天极尊，惟一而已，故非天子不祀也。
庶人以上，莫不蒸尝，嫡子居外，介子执事，未有不亲受命而可祭天者。
纳之又曰： 武皇受禅，用二月郊，元帝中兴，以三月郊。
今郊时未过，日望舆驾，无为欲速，而使皇舆旋反，更不得亲奉也。
于是从纳之议。
translation: 
So I accepted the suggestion of inscription.
In the same month, Xinwei performed the southern suburbs ceremony and Xinsi performed the northern suburbs ceremony. The emperor personally participated in the ceremony.
Three years later, he attacked Danbao and defeated him. Ji Mao, in the southern suburbs, offered sacrifices to heaven with great merit.
This year, the emperor was so miserable that he did not return.
In the second year, the suburban sacrificial ceremony should be held. The central government believed that in accordance with the "Zhou Rites", Zongbo should perform the officiating ceremony on his behalf, and the three Dukes should perform the sacrificial services.
Only Shangshu Zuocheng Wang Nazhi said: Since it is necessary to sacrifice to heaven, it is natural that when the emperor is ruling from the south, there will be a monarch there to carry out the decree. There is nothing to discuss.
Whether we should hold a memorial ceremony in the countryside or not, how can we discuss and decide like today?
The proposer also said: We should hold sacrifices in the suburbs now, so we can let the three princes do their work in accordance with the previous etiquette system.
Nazhi also said: Sacrifice to heaven is a supreme thing and can only be done by one person, so it is not the emperor who cannot offer sacrifices.
Anyone above common people only performs steamed sacrifices and tastes the sacrifices. If the legitimate son is away, the concubine will perform it. There are still people who can go to worship the heaven without personally accepting the mission of the heaven.
Nazhi also said: Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and offered sacrifices in the suburbs of February; Emperor Zhongxing of the Yuan Dynasty offered sacrifices in the suburbs of March.
Now that the time for offering sacrifices in the suburbs has not passed yet, we look forward to the emperor's return every day. Don't do anything in advance so that after the emperor returns, he will no longer be able to offer sacrifices in person.
So he listened to Nazhi's advice.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
郊庙牲币璧玉之色，虽有成文，秦世多以骝驹，汉则但云犊，未辩其色。
江左南北郊同用玄牲，明堂庙社同以赤牲。
礼，有事告祖祢宜社之文，未有告郊之典也。
汉仪，天子之丧，使太尉告谥于南郊，他无闻焉。
魏文帝黄初四年七月，帝将东巡，以大军当出，使太常以一特牛告祠南郊。
及文帝崩，太尉钟繇告谥南郊，皆是有事于郊也。
江左则废。
礼，春分祀朝日于东，秋分祀夕月于西。
汉武帝郊泰畤，平旦出竹宫，东向揖日，其夕西向揖月。
既郊明，又不在东西郊也。
后遂旦夕常拜。
translation: 
Although the color of the sacrificial coins, silk, jade, and jade used in temple sacrifices in the suburbs is clearly stipulated, the Qin Dynasty mostly used the red-haired black hyena horse, but the Han Dynasty only said to use the calf, regardless of its color.
During the Shu and Jin Dynasties, black animals were used for sacrifices in the southern suburbs and northern suburbs, and red animals were used for Mingtang sacrifices and temple sacrifices.
There is a provision in the etiquette that if you have something to tell your ancestors, you should make a complaint in the community temple, but there is no rule about making a complaint in the suburban temple.
According to Modai's ceremony, after the emperor's death, the Taiwei was asked to sacrifice the Mi number given to him in the southern suburbs to heaven and the spirits of the dead, and nothing else was heard of it.
In July of the fourth year of Wei Wentong and Dong Chi, the emperor was about to patrol the east. Because the army was about to set off, he sent Taichang to use a big bull to worship the sky in the southern suburbs.
After the death of Saitong, Taiwei Zhongxun paid homage to heaven in the southern suburbs. This was because of important events.
During the Eastern Jin Dynasty, these rituals were abandoned.
According to the rules of the ritual, worship the sun at the edge of the beam in the morning during the spring equinox, and worship the moon at dusk at the west during the autumnal equinox.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty worshiped the sky in Taishi. He went out from Daxuan in the early morning and bowed to the sun facing east. In the evening of the same day, he bowed to the moon facing west.
Taking advantage of the days of offering sacrifices in the suburbs, they did not go to Cambodia or the west to perform sacrifices.
From now on, regular prayers will be performed in the early morning and evening.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故魏文帝诏曰： 汉氏不拜日于东郊，而旦夕常于殿下东西拜日月，烦亵似家人之事，非事天神之道也。
黄初二年正月乙亥，祀朝日于东门之外，又违礼二分之义。
魏明帝太和元年二月丁亥，祀朝日于东郊，八月己丑，祀夕月于西郊，始得古礼。
及武帝太康二年，有司奏，春分依旧请车驾祀朝日，寒温未适，可不亲出。
诏曰： 礼仪宜有常，若如所奏，与故太尉所撰不同，复为无定制也。
间者方难未平，故每从所奏，今戎事弭息，惟此为大。
案此诏，帝复为亲祀朝日也。
此后废。
礼， 郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝。
魏文帝即位，用汉明堂而未有配。
明帝太和元年，始宗祀文帝于明堂，齐王亦行其礼。
晋初以文帝配，后复以宣帝，寻复还以文帝配，其余无所变革。
translation: 
Therefore, Emperor Wen of Wei's edict said: The Han family does not worship the sun in the eastern suburbs, but worships the sun and the moon in the morning or evening in front of the palace facing east or west. This is cumbersome and vulgar, like what ordinary people do, and is not the right way to serve God and communicate with gods.
On Yihai, the first month of the second year of Huangchu, he worshiped the sun outside the east gate, and he violated the etiquette of worshiping the sun and moon at the second equinox.
In the second month of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty, he worshiped the sun in the morning in the eastern suburbs. In August, he worshiped the moon in the western suburbs at night. This is in line with ancient rituals.
In the second year of Genxun Zuochen, a minister reported that the emperor would go to worship the sun at the spring equinox as usual, but because the weather was not suitable for the weather, there was no need to go out of the city in person.
The edict said: Etiquette should be maintained consistently. If it is done as instructed, it will be different from the etiquette regulations written by the late Taiwei, and there will be no customization.
In the past, there was a national crisis that had not yet been resolved, so I often listened to your advice. Now that the war is over, only these things are the most important.
According to this Shao Shu, the emperor personally worshiped the sun.
This provision was later abolished.
According to the rules of etiquette, worshiping Houji in the countryside is worthy of enjoying heaven, and worshiping King Wen in the Mingtang is worthy of enjoying God.
After Emperor Wen of Wei came to the throne, he did not enjoy the Mingtang etiquette of the Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taihe reign of Emperor Ming, Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang. King Qi also implemented this etiquette.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty, Emperor Wen was used to share the benefits, and later Emperor Xuan was used to share the benefits. Soon after, Emperor Wen was used to share the benefits. There were no changes in other aspects.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
是则郊与明堂，同配异配，参差不同矣。
挚虞议以为： 汉魏故事，明堂祀五帝之神。
新礼，五帝即上帝，即天帝也。
明堂除五帝之位，惟祭上帝。
案仲尼称 郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝。 《周礼》，祀天旅上帝，祀地旅四望。
望非地，则上帝非天，断可识矣。
郊丘之祀，扫地而祭，牲用茧栗，器用陶匏，事反其始，故配以远祖。
明堂之祭，备物以荐，玉牲并陈，笾豆成列，礼同人鬼，故配以近考。
郊堂兆位，居然异体，牲牢品物，质文殊趣。
且祖考同配，非谓尊严之美，三日再祀，非谓不黩之义，其非一神，亦足明矣。
昔在上古，生为明王，没则配五行，故太昊配木，神农配火，少昊配金，颛顼配水，黄帝配土。
此五帝者，配天之神，同兆之于四郊，报之于明堂。
祀天，大裘而冕，祀五帝亦如之。
或以为五精之帝，佐天育物者也。
translation: 
From this point of view, the situation in the rituals of suburban sacrifice and Mingtang is inconsistent in terms of sharing.
Zhiyu’s opinion is that: It was the old practice of the Han and Wei dynasties to worship the gods of the Five Emperors in the Mingtang.
According to the new rites, the Five Emperors are God and the Emperor of Heaven.
Remove the five emperors' thrones in the Mingtang and worship only God.
An Zhongni said that worshiping Hou Ji in the suburbs is worthy of enjoying the sky, and worshiping King Wen in the Mingtang is worthy of enjoying God. The "Li" of Zhou stipulates that when worshiping the sky, traveling to worship the God, and when worshiping the earth, traveling to worship the surroundings.
If hope is not equal to earth, then it is completely clear that God is not equal to heaven.
For sacrifices in round hills in the suburbs, a place is cleared and sacrifices are made on the spot. The sacrifices are made of silkworm cocoons and chestnuts, and the utensils are pottery. Things return to the way they were at the beginning, so they are shared by the ancestors.
During the sacrifice in the Mingtang, various items are displayed as offerings, jade sacrifices are offered, and canopy bean sacrificial vessels are arranged in rows. In terms of etiquette, there is no difference between humans and ghosts and gods, so ancestors who are more recent are used to share the offerings.
The altars of Jiaoqiu Mingtang are actually different, and the utensils for sacrificing animals are completely different from rough and fine.
Moreover, sharing it with the ancestors does not mean respecting the solemn virtues, and offering sacrifices twice in three days does not mean it is too much. It was clear that it was not a god.
In the past, in ancient times, people who were alive were Ming kings, and after death they were matched with the five elements. Therefore, Taiwu matched with wood, Shennong matched with fire, Shaowu matched with gold, Zhuanxu matched with water, and Huangdi matched with earth.
These five emperors are gods worthy of heaven. They offer sacrifices together in the suburbs and report sacrifices in the Mingtang.
When offering sacrifices to heaven, one wears a fur coat and a crown, and the same is true when offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors.
Some people believe that the emperor, who dominates the five spirits, assists God in cultivating all things.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
前代相因，莫之或废，晋初始从异议。
《庚午诏书》，明堂及南郊除五帝之位，惟祀天神，新礼奉而用之。
前太医令韩杨上书，宜如旧祀五帝。
太康十年，诏已施用。
宜定新礼，明堂及郊祀五帝如旧。
诏从之。
江左以后，未遑修建。
汉仪，太史每岁上其年历，先立春、立夏、大暑、立秋、立冬常读五时令，皇帝所服，各随五时之色。
帝升御坐，尚书令以下就席位，尚书三公郎以令置案上，奉以入，就席伏读讫，赐酒一卮。
魏氏常行其礼。
魏明帝景初元年，通事白曰： 前后但见读春夏秋冬四时令，至于服黄之时，独阙不读，今不解其故。
散骑常侍领太史令高堂隆以为 黄于五行，中央土也，王四季各十八日。
translation: 
It was passed down from generation to generation and no one abolished it. It was only in the early days of Jin that different opinions were followed.
The "Gengwu Shaoshu" stipulates that during Mingtang sacrifices and southern suburbs sacrifices, the deities of the five emperors should be removed and only the gods should be sacrificed. The new etiquette adopts this.
In the past, Taishi ordered Han Yang to write a letter suggesting that sacrifices to the Five Emperors should be carried out as usual.
In the tenth year of Taikang, the Shao Order was implemented.
New etiquette should be formulated, and worshiping the Five Emperors in Mingtang and suburbs should be the same as the old etiquette.
Shaoling approved his opinion.
During the Shu and Jin Dynasties, there was no time to implement it.
The etiquette of the Han Dynasty stipulates that Taishi will present the calendar of the current year every year. Before the Beginning of Spring, Beginning of Summer, Beginning of Great Heat, Beginning of Autumn, and Beginning of Winter, he will often read out the decrees about the five o'clock. The clothes worn by the emperor will follow the colors of the five o'clock.
The emperor sat down, and the minister ordered the following officials to take their places. The third prince of the minister put the order on the case, carried it in, and after reading it at their respective seats, gave them a cup of wine.
Wei family often performs this kind of ceremony.
In the first year of Emperor Jingchu of Wei Ming Dynasty, the general officer said: Now I only see the decrees for the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter. As for the seasons of wearing yellow clothes, they are simply missing and not performed. I don’t know why.
Gao Tanglong, the chief official of Sanqi Chang, believed that among the five elements, yellow represents the central earth, and each of the four seasons has eighteen days.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
土生于火，故于火用事之末服黄，三季则否。
其令则随四时，不以五行为令也，是以服黄无令。
斯则魏氏不读大暑令也。
及晋受命，亦有其制。
傅咸云： 立秋一日，白路光于紫庭，白旗陈于玉阶。
然则其日旗路皆白也。
成帝咸和五年六月丁未，有司奏读秋令。
兼侍中散骑常侍荀奕、兼黄门侍郎散骑侍郎曹宇驳曰： 尚书三公曹奏读秋令，仪注旧典未备。
臣等参议光禄大夫臣华恆议，武皇帝以秋夏盛暑，常阙不读令，在春冬不废也。
夫先王所以顺时读令者，盖后天而奉天时，正服尊严之所重。
今服章多阙，加比热隆赫，臣等谓可如恆议，依故事阙而不读。
诏可。
六年三月，有司奏 今月十六日立夏。
今正服渐备，四时读令，是祗述天和隆杀之道，谓今故宜读夏令。
奏可。
translation: 
Earth is born from fire, so wear yellow clothing at the end of the fire-dominated period, but not in the other three seasons.
Relevant government decrees are issued according to the four seasons, not according to the five elements, so wearing yellow clothes does not have a government decree.
This shows that the Wei family did not read the Great Summer Order.
There are also those systems for accepting the destiny.
Fu Xian said: On the day of the Beginning of Autumn, white vehicles shine in the palace, and white flags are displayed in front of the jade steps.
Then the flags and vehicles on that day will be white.
It was Dingwei in June of the fifth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign. Someone asked me to read the autumn decree.
Xun Yi, the regular servant of Sanqi, and the servant of Huangmen, Cao Yu, retorted: Cao Yu, the third Duke of Shangshu, asked to read the autumn decree. There is no such provision in the old ritual regulations.
Chen and others discussed based on the suggestion of Chen Huaheng, the Guanglu doctor, that Emperor Wu would not cancel this event during the spring and winter because of the high heat in autumn and summer, which often left vacancies and did not read the decree.
The reason why the former kings read the decrees according to the seasons is because obeying the heavenly hour when it comes is an important matter to make the color of the clothes correct and to show respect and solemnity.
Nowadays, most of the clothing regulations are no longer in line with the old etiquette, and the weather is extremely hot. The ministers thought that they could follow Hua Heng's suggestion and follow the old rules and not read the decree.
Shaoling approved.
In March of the sixth year, a minister reported that summer would begin on the sixteenth day of this month.
Nowadays, the formal service is gradually being completed, and the decrees are read in all seasons. This is a way to pay tribute to the heaven and the prosperity of the country. Therefore, it is recommended that the summer decrees should be read now.
The memorial was approved.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
《礼》，孟春之月， 乃择元辰，天子亲载耒耜，措之于参保介之御间，帅三公九卿诸侯大夫躬耕帝藉 。
至秦灭学，其礼久废。
汉文帝之后，始行斯典。
魏之三祖，亦皆亲耕藉田。
及武帝泰始四年，有司奏耕祠先农，可，令有司行事。
诏曰： 夫国之大事，在祀与农。
是以古之圣王，躬耕帝藉，以供郊庙之粢盛，且以训化天下。
近世以来，耕藉止于数步之中，空有慕古之名，曾无供祀训农之实，而有百官车徒之费。
今修千亩之制，当与群公卿士躬稼穑之艰难，以率先天下。
主者详具其制，下河南，处田地于东郊之南，洛水之北。
若无官田，随宜使换，而不得侵人也。
于是乘舆御木辂以耕，以太牢祀先农。
自惠帝之后，其事便废。
江左元帝将修耕藉，尚书符问 藉田至尊应躬祠先农不 ？
贺循答： 汉仪无，止有至尊应自祭之文。然则《周礼》王者祭四望则毳冕，祭社稷五祀则絺冕，以此不为无亲祭之义也。
translation: 
The book "Li" tells about the month of Meng Chun, so he chose an auspicious day and a good time. The emperor personally carried the grass on his back, placed it next to the driver of the second chariot, and led the three princes, nine ministers, princes and officials to plow the fields.
In Taiwan, academics were destroyed, and those etiquette were abolished for a long time.
This ceremony was only implemented after Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty.
The first three emperors of Wei also cultivated the fields themselves.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, Yousi asked you to worship the God of Agriculture in the temple when farming began. Yousi could be asked to carry out this task.
The edict said: The major affairs of the country are in sacrifices and farming.
Therefore, the ancient sage kings plowed their own fields and used them as offerings for temple sacrifices in the suburbs. They also used their actions to educate and influence the people of the world.
In modern times, farming in the fields is limited to walking a few steps in the fields. It is only in the name of worshiping ancient people, and there is no actual purpose of offering sacrifices to encourage farming. It is just a waste of money to mobilize troops and disciples.
Nowadays, following the Zhou Dynasty system of thousands of acres of farmland, we must personally experience the hardships of farming with the officials and officials to set an example for the world.
The organizers revised the relevant systems in detail and went to Henan to find good land south of Shujiao and north of Luoshui.
If there is no official land, it will be adjusted and replaced according to the situation, and the land of the common people is not allowed to be invaded.
So the emperor took a wooden chariot to farm and used Tailao to worship the God of Agriculture.
After Emperor Hui, these things were abandoned.
During this period, Wutong planned to restore the system of cultivating the fields, and the minister asked the emperor whether he should worship the god of agriculture in person when cultivating the fields.
He Xun replied: There is no provision in the selected etiquette that the Supreme Being should be sacrificed in person, but the "Li" of Zhou says that the king wears velvet clothes and a crown when offering sacrifices to the four gods, and wears an embroidered hat when offering sacrifices to Sheji and the Five Sacrifice. Based on this, it cannot be said that there is no reason for personal sacrifice.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
宜立两仪注。
贺循等所上仪注又未详允，事竟不行。
后哀帝复欲行其典，亦不能遂。
汉仪，县邑常以乙未日祠先农，乃耕于乙地，以丙戌日祠风伯于戌地，以已丑日祠雨师于丑地，牲用羊豕。
立春之日，皆青幡帻迎春于东郊外野中。
迎春至自野中出，则迎拜之而还，弗祭。
三时不迎。
魏氏虽天子耕藉，籓镇阙诸侯百亩之礼。
及武帝末，有司奏： 古诸侯耕藉田百亩，躬执耒以奉社稷宗庙，以劝率农功。
今诸王临国，宜依修耕藉之义。
然竟未施行。
《周礼》，王后帅内外命妇享先蚕于北郊。
汉仪，皇后亲桑东郊苑中，蚕室祭蚕神，曰苑窳妇人、寓氏公主，祠用少牢。
translation: 
Two additional rules of etiquette should be added.
The provisions written by He Xun and others were not detailed enough, so the matter was not implemented in the end.
Later, Emperor Ai wanted to implement that kind of ritual, but he was not able to do so.
Etiquette stipulates that at the county level, the god of agriculture is usually worshiped at the Yiwei celestial temple and cultivated on the land of Party B. On the Bingxu day, people go to the Xufang field to worship Feng Bo, and on the Ji Chou day, they go to the Choufang field to worship the Rain Master. Sheep and pigs are used as sacrifices.
On the first day of spring, everyone carries green flags and green headscarves and goes to the fields outside Shu to hold a Spring Festival ceremony.
The people who welcomed the spring paid homage to him and then returned to the city without offering any sacrifices.
Not welcome in the other three seasons.
Although the emperor performed the ritual of cultivating the fields, the feudal towns did not follow the ritual of the princes who cultivated hundreds of acres of fields.
To the end of Emperor Wu. A senior official said: In ancient times, the princes cultivated hundreds of acres of fields and personally took charge of the grass production to worship the Sheji Ancestral Temple, thus encouraging and advocating agricultural production.
Now each king governs his own kingdom and should implement the system of cultivating the fields according to ancient rituals.
But it was not implemented in the end.
"Zhou Rites" stipulates that the queen leads her concubines to sacrifice silkworms in the northern suburbs.
According to the etiquette of luck, the queen personally went to the garden in Shujiao to pick mulberry and worshiped the silkworm god in the silkworm room. She was called the Yuan woman and Princess Yu. Shaolao was used as a sacrifice in the temple.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
魏文帝黄初七年正月，命中宫蚕于北郊，依周典也。
及武帝太康六年，散骑常侍华峤奏： 先王之制，天子诸侯亲耕藉田千亩，后夫人躬蚕桑。
今陛下以圣明至仁，修先王之绪，皇后体资生之德，合配乾之义，而坤道未光，蚕礼尚缺。
以为宜依古式，备斯盛典。
诏曰： 昔天子亲藉，以供粢盛，后夫人躬蚕，以备祭服，所以聿遵孝敬，明教示训也。
今藉田有制，而蚕礼不修，由中间务多，未暇崇备。
今天下无事，宜修礼以示四海。
其详依古典，及近代故事，以参今宜，明年施行。
于是蚕于西郊，盖与藉田对其方也。
乃使侍中成粲草定其仪。
translation: 
In the first month of the seventh year of Emperor Huangchu's reign, Emperor Wen of Wei ordered the Queen of the Imperial Palace to worship the Silkworm God in the northern suburbs, in accordance with the regulations of the Zhou Dynasty.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign, Hua Jiao, a regular servant of Sanqi, reported: Under the system of the previous kings, the emperor and the princes personally cultivated thousands of acres of land, and the queen and his wife personally engaged in raising silkworms and picking mulberries.
Nowadays, His Majesty is wise and benevolent and follows the tradition of the previous kings. The Queen embodies the great virtue of Zisheng and is in line with the moral principles of assisting the Qiangang. However, the Dao of Kun has not yet flourished, and the silkworm ceremony is still insufficient.
Therefore, it is believed that we should follow ancient precedents and implement the Wai Yi Ceremony.
The edict said: In the past, the emperor personally plowed the fields to worship the gods, and the queen personally raised silkworms to prepare the ceremonial clothes. These behaviors were used to observe filial piety and promote enlightenment.
Now there is a system in Yutian, but the silkworm ceremony is not carried out because there are too many affairs in the palace and there is no time to carry it out.
Now that the world is at peace, we should follow the etiquette to show it to the world.
We will carefully follow ancient laws and regulations, plus modern precedents, to consider the current situation and implement it next year.
So the Silkworm Ceremony was performed in the western suburbs, which was opposite to the Jutian Ceremony.
He asked Chengcan, the servant, to draft the relevant provisions of the ceremony.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
先蚕坛高一丈，方二丈，为四出陛，陛广五尺，在皇后采桑坛东南帷宫外门之外，而东南去帷宫十丈，在蚕室西南，桑林在其东。
取列侯妻六人为蚕母。
蚕将生，择吉日，皇后著十二笄步摇，依汉魏故事，衣青衣，乘油画云母安车，驾六騩马。
女尚书著貂蝉佩玺陪乘，载筐钩。
公主、三夫人、九嫔、世妇、诸太妃、太夫人及县乡君、郡公侯特进夫人、外世妇、命妇皆步摇、衣青，各载筐钩从蚕。
先桑二日，蚕室生蚕著薄上。
桑日，皇后未到，太祝令质明以一太牢告祠，谒者一人监祠。
祠毕撤馔，班余胙于从桑及奉祠者。
皇后至西郊升坛，公主以下陪列坛东。
皇后东面躬桑，采三条，诸妃公主各采五条，县乡君以下各采九条，悉以桑授蚕母，还蚕室。
事讫，皇后还便坐，公主以下乃就位，设飨宴，赐绢各有差。
translation: 
The silkworm altar is one foot high and two feet long on each side, with steps stretching out in all directions. The steps are five feet wide. It is outside the outer gate of the curtain palace in the southeast of the queen's mulberry picking altar. It is ten feet away from the curtain palace to the southeast. In the southwest of the silkworm room, the mulberry forest is on its side.
A total of six wives of the princes were selected to serve as silkworm mothers.
When the silkworm is about to be born, the auspicious queen is chosen to wear twelve hairpins. According to the precedents of the Han and Wei dynasties, she wears Tsing Yi, rides on a mica-mounted chariot painted with oil paint, and drives with six light black horses.
The female minister wore a Diao Chan pendant and rode with her, and the carriage was equipped with basket hooks.
The princess, the third lady, the ninth concubine, the concubine, the concubine, the dowager, the county and township lord, the prince's wife Tejin, the foreigner's return, and the married woman all wore walking robes and blue clothes, and each carried a basket hook to perform the silkworm ceremony.
Two days before mulberry picking, the silkworms born in the Silkworm Palace are placed on the thin bed.
On the day of mulberry picking, the queen had not yet arrived, so Tai Zhuling used a Tailao to sacrifice at dawn, and a visitor supervised the sacrifice.
After the sacrifice is completed, the offerings are removed, and the remaining offerings are distributed to those who follow the mulberry pickers and serve the sacrifice.
The queen went to the western suburbs to ascend the silkworm altar, and people below the princess accompanied her and lined up beside the altar.
The queen faced Shu personally and picked mulberry leaves from three branches. The concubines and princesses each picked mulberry leaves from five branches, and everyone from the county king below picked mulberry leaves from nine branches. They all handed the mulberry leaves to the silkworm mother and returned to the silkworm room.
After the matter is over and the queen comes back and sits down, the people below the princess will take their seats, hold a banquet, and reward silk according to their rank.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
前汉但置官社而无官稷，王莽置官稷，后复省。
故汉至魏但太社有稷，而官社无稷，故常二社一稷也。
晋初仍魏，无所增损。
至太康九年，改建宗庙，而社稷坛一庙俱徙。
乃诏曰： 社实一神，其并二社之祀。
于是车骑司马傅咸表曰：《祭法》王社太社，各有其义。
天子尊事郊庙，故冕而躬耕。
躬耕也者，所以重孝享之粢盛。
亲耕故自报，自为立社者，为藉田而报者也。
国以人为本，人以谷为命，故又为百姓立社而祈报焉。
事异报殊，此社之所以有二也。
王景侯之论王社，亦谓春祈藉田，秋而报之也。
其论太社，则曰王者布下圻内，为百姓立之，谓之大社，不自立之于京都也。
景侯此论据《祭法》。
《祭法》： 大夫以下成群立社，曰置社。
translation: 
In the former Han Dynasty, there were only official societies but no official bureaucracy. Wang Mang set up the official bureaucracy but later abolished it.
Therefore, from the Mo to Wei Dynasties, only Taishe had Ji God, while Guansha did not have Ji God, so there were often two social gods and one Ji God.
In the early Jin Dynasty, the Wei system was still used without any increase or decrease.
In the ninth year of Taikang, the ancestral temple was rebuilt, and the Sheji Altar and the ancestral temple were moved together.
So an edict was issued saying: The god of the community is actually one god, and now the two communities are merged into one place to worship.
So Fu Xian, the Chariot and Cavalry Sima, said: "The Sacrifice Law" has corresponding descriptions of Wangshe and Taishe respectively.
The emperor wanted to perform suburban and temple sacrifices respectfully, so he wore the imperial crown and farmed the fields himself.
The reason for doing the farming yourself is to show that you value the offerings for the sacrifices.
If you work the land yourself, you can worship it yourself. If you build a temple for yourself, you must cultivate the land to worship it.
The country is based on people, and people rely on food as their lifeblood, so they build temples for the people to pray and worship.
Different situations require different offerings, which is why there are two temples.
When Wang Jinghou discussed Wangshe, he also said that in the spring, he prayed for a good harvest in the fields, and in the autumn, he offered the harvest to the gods.
When discussing Taishe, it was said that the king cared about the territory and built a shrine for the people, which was called Taishe, and no longer built a shrine for himself in the capital.
Jinghou's view was based on the "Sacrifice Law".
"Articles and Laws": When the number of people below the rank of officials reaches a certain number, they will build a shrine, which is called setting up a shrine.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
景侯解曰， 今之里社是也 。
景侯解《祭法》，则以置社为人间之社矣。
而别论复以太社为人间之社，未晓此旨也。
太社，天子为百姓而祀，故称天子社。
《郊特牲》曰： 天子太社，必受霜露风雨。
以群姓之众，王者通为立社，故称太社也。
若夫置社，其数不一，盖以里所为名，《左氏传》盟于清丘之社是也。
众庶之社，既已不称太矣，若复不立之京都，当安所立乎！
《祭法》又曰，王为群姓立七祀，王自为立七祀。
言自为者，自为而祀也；为群姓者，为群姓而祀也。
太社与七祀其文正等。
说者穷此，因云坟籍但有五祀，无七祀也。
案祭，五祀国之大祀，七者小祀。
《周礼》所云祭凡小祀，则墨冕之属也。
translation: 
Jinghou explained: It is the current Lishe.
Jinghou explained the "Sacrifice Law" and regarded Zhishe as a human society.
However, in other discussions, Taishe is referred to as the human society, and I don’t understand what he means.
Taishe is where the emperor performs sacrifices for the people, so it is called Tianzishe.
"Jiao Te Sheng" says: The emperor will be exposed to frost, dew, wind and rain when he offers sacrifices in Taishe.
Since there were many people with various surnames, the king built a shrine for them all, so it was called Taishe.
If it is a cooperative, the number is inconsistent, and the place name is roughly used as the name. This is the case with the cooperative alliance in Qingqiu mentioned in "Zuo Zhuan".
Since the common people's social temples are no longer called "tai", if they don't build temples in the capital, then where can they be built?
"The Law of Sacrifice" also says that the king establishes seven sacrifices for each surname, and the king establishes seven sacrifices for himself.
To say that it is for oneself means to offer sacrifices for oneself; to say that for each surname means to offer sacrifices for each surname.
Taishe and Qisi are exactly the same in terms of the writing style of their records.
The interpreter had no idea what to do about this, so he said that among the ancient tomb classics, there were only five sacrifices and no seven sacrifices.
I think among the sacrifices, the five sacrifices are the major sacrifices of the country, and the seven sacrifices are the minor sacrifices.
Among the sacrifices mentioned in "Zhou Rites", all small sacrifices are wearing crown clothes such as Xuan Mian.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
景侯解大厉曰， 如周杜伯，鬼有所归，乃不为厉 。
今云无二社者称景侯，《祭法》不谓无二，则曰 口传无其文也 。
夫以景侯之明，拟议而后为解，而欲以口论除明文，如此非但二社当见思惟，景侯之后解亦未易除也。
前被敕，《尚书·召告》乃社于新邑，惟一太牢，不二社之明义也。
案《郊特牲》曰社稷太牢，必援一牢之文以明社之无二，则稷无牲矣。
说者曰，举社则稷可知。
苟可举社以明稷，何独不举一以明二？
国之大事，在祀与戎。
若有二而除之，不若过而存之。
况存之有义，而除之无据乎？
《周礼》封人掌设社壝，无稷字。
translation: 
When Jinghou explained Dali, he said: Just like Du Bo in the Zhou Dynasty, ghosts will not become Li ghosts if they have a destination.
Nowadays, those who say that there are no second societies claim that it is Jinghou's claim. The "Sacrifice Law" does not say that there are no second societies, but says that it is a legend and there is no relevant written record.
With Jinghou's understanding, he even used analogies to explain, but some people want to abolish the expressly stipulated regulations based on oral opinions. In this way, not only the two societies should be taken seriously, but Jinghou's explanation cannot be easily abolished.
After receiving the edict not long ago, "Shang Shu Zhao Gao" held a community sacrifice in Xinyi. Only one set of Tailao was used as a sacrifice, which was a clear proof that the second community was not carried out.
According to "Jiao Te Sheng", it is said that the sacrifice of Sheji is too strong. If we must cite a set of records that are too strong to prove that there are no two shes in the Sheji sacrifice, then there is no need for sacrifice in the Jiji sacrifice.
The person who explained it said that the situation of the Ji Festival can be understood by citing the community sacrifices.
If it is possible to cite the sacrifices of the community to illustrate the rituals of Ji, why can’t we cite a sacrifice to illustrate the rituals of the two communities?
The important affairs of the country lie in sacrifices and military affairs.
If there are two sacrificial rituals but one is abolished, it is better to preserve it by offering multiple sacrificial rituals.
Besides, there is a basis for preserving it, but there is no basis for abolishing it?
"The Rites of Zhou" records that the Feng people were in charge of setting up the low earthen wall around the altar of the community, and Ji was not mentioned.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
今帝社无稷，盖出于此。
然国主社稷，故经传动称社稷。
《周礼》王祭社稷则絺冕，此王社有稷之交也。
封人所掌社壝之无稷字，说者以为略文，从可知也。
谓宜仍旧立二社，而加立帝社之稷。
时成粲义称景侯论太社不立京都，欲破郑氏学。
咸重表以为： 如粲之论，景侯之解文以此坏。
《大雅》云 乃立冢土 ，毛公解曰， 冢土，大社也。
景侯解《诗》，即用此说。
《禹贡》 惟土五色 ，景侯解曰， 王者取五色土为太社，封四方诸侯，各割其方色土者覆四方也 。如此，太社复为立京都也。
不知此论何从而出，而与解乖，上违经记明文，下坏景侯之解。
臣虽顽蔽，少长学门，不能默已，谨复续上。
刘寔与咸议同。
translation: 
Today, there is no Ji God in the emperor's temples, probably based on this record.
However, the state presides over the sacrifice of Sheji, so Sheji is frequently mentioned in scriptures and biographies.
"The Rites of Zhou" records that the king wore a Xumian when he offered sacrifices to Sheji. This is a clear indication that the king's shrine has the God of Ji.
There is no mention of Ji in the record of Feng Ren taking charge of the society. The interpreter thinks that the text is omitted, which can be deduced from the above.
It is suggested that the second shrine should still be established, and the God of Ji should be added to the imperial shrine.
At that time, Cheng Can proposed that Jinghou discussed that Yu Taishe was not established in Kyoto, and wanted to overthrow Zheng's theory.
Fu Xian once again expressed his opinion: If we follow Cheng Can's statement, then Jinghou's explanation will be destroyed.
"Daya" says that the tomb soil was then set up. Mao Gong explained that the tomb soil is Taishe.
Jinghou used the interpretation of "The Book of Songs" by Lu Yi.
In "The Five Colors of the Earth" in "Gong of Yu", Jinghou explained that the king used five colors of soil to make the Taishe. When he divided the princes in the four directions, he used the soil of their orientation and color to show the division of the land. According to this, the Taishe was located in Kyoto again.
I don’t know where the so-called Jinghou’s discussion was found. It is inconsistent with Jinghou’s explanation. It violates the clear text in the classic records and undermines Jinghou’s explanation.
Although I am stubborn and ignorant, I have been studying since I was a child and cannot be silent. I would like to express my opinion again.
Liu Sai and Fu Xian had the same opinion.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
诏曰： 社实一神，而相袭二位，众议不同，何必改作！
其便仍旧，一如魏制。
其后挚虞奏，以为： 臣案《祭法》 王为群姓立社曰太社，王自 为立社曰王社。 《周礼》大司徒 设其社稷之壝 ，又曰 以血祭祭社稷 ，则太社也。
又曰 封人掌设王之社壝 ，又有军旅宜乎社，则王社也。
太社为群姓祈报，祈报有时，主不可废。
故凡祓社衅鼓，主奉以从是也。
此皆二社之明文，前代之所尊。
以《尚书·召告》社于新邑三牲各文，《诗》称 乃立冢土 ，无两社之交，故废帝社，惟立太社。
《诗书》所称，各指一事，又皆在公旦制作之前，未可以易《周礼》之明典，《祭法》之正义。
前改建庙社，营一社之处，朝议斐然，执古匡今。
世祖武皇帝躬发明诏，定二社之义，以为永制。
宜定新礼，从二社。
诏从之。
至元帝建武元年，又依洛京立二社一稷。
translation: 
The edict said: The God of Society was originally one God, but became two. Everyone has different opinions. There is no need to change!
Still following the old rules, it is exactly the same as Wei's system.
Later, Zhiyu reported to the court that he believed: The "Sacrifice Law" of Chen'an said that the king established a society for each surname, which was called Taishe, and the king established a society for himself, which was called Wangshe. "Zhou Li" said that the great Situ was responsible for setting up the low earthen walls around the altar of Sheji. It also said that blood sacrifices were used to sacrifice Sheji, which is Taishe.
It is also said that the enfeoffed person is in charge of building the King's altar, and it is also mentioned that the military should conduct relevant ceremonies at the altar, which is the King's altar.
In Taishe, pray for the people and inform the gods. There is a certain time for such prayer reports, and the person who presides over them must comply with them.
Therefore, the presiding officer would do everything to ward off disasters, offer sacrifices to the gods, kill animals, sacrifice military drums, etc. here.
These are the rules that have been clearly recorded in the Second Society and have been respected by previous dynasties.
Because "Shang Shu Zhao Gao" records that three animals were used to worship the gods of the community in Xinyi, and "The Book of Songs" says that a tomb was set up, there is no mention of the two communities. Therefore, the Imperial Society was abolished and only the Tai Society was established.
What "Poems" and "Books" talk about each refers to one thing, and they all occurred before Zhou Gongdan established the ritual and music system. They cannot be used to change the express regulations in "Zhou Rites" or the formal regulations in "Sacrifice Law".
In the past, when temples and shrines were rebuilt to create a place for social sacrifices, there was a lot of discussion in the court about using ancient rituals to correct the current system.
Emperor Shi Zuwu personally issued a wise edict, affirming the system of the two societies as a long-lasting and unchanging system.
New etiquette rules should be determined and comply with the regulations of the second society.
Shaoling listened to his advice.
In the first year of Emperor Jianwu of the Yuan Dynasty, the second shrine and the Yiji sacrificial place were established in Luojing.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
其太社之祝曰： 地德普施，惠存无疆。
乃建太社，保佑万邦。
悠悠四海，咸赖嘉祥。
其帝社之祝曰： 坤德厚载，邦畿是保。
乃建帝社，以神地道。明祀惟辰，景福来造。
汉仪，每月旦，太史上其月历，有司侍郎尚书见读其令，奉行其正。
朔前后二日，牵牛酒至社下以祭日。
日有变，割羊以祠社，用救日变。
执事者长冠，衣绛领袖缘中衣、绛缘以行礼，如故事。
自晋受命，日月将交会，太史乃上合朔，尚书先事三日，宣摄内外戒严。
挚虞《决疑》曰： 凡救日蚀者，著赤帻，以助阳也。
日将蚀，天子素服避正殿，内外严警。
太史登灵台，伺侯日变，便伐鼓于门。
闻鼓音，侍臣皆著赤帻，带剑入侍。
三台令史以上皆各持剑，立其户前。
translation: 
At that time, Taishe's blessing said: Earth's virtues are selfless and its kindness is boundless.
Establish Taishe to protect all nations.
All over the world, everyone is in good health.
At that time, the Imperial Society's blessing said: If Kun De is profound, the country will be free from worries.
Establishing an imperial shrine, carrying forward the authentic tradition, offering sacrifices on time, and bringing happiness to all.
The etiquette of the Han Dynasty stipulates that on the morning of the first day of each month, the Taishi should present the calendar for that month. The ministers and ministers of the relevant departments listened quietly and read the decrees and implemented them on time according to the calendar.
Two days before and after the first day of the Lunar New Year, people bring sheep and wine to worship the sun god in front of the social god.
If something happens to the sun, sheep are sacrificed to the gods in order to save the sun.
The host wears a long crown, a middle coat with crimson trim on the collar and cuffs, crimson pants and socks to salute, just like in the past.
Since the founding of the Jin Dynasty, when the sun and the moon are about to meet, Taishi will report the situation of Heshuo. Three days before the event, the Minister will declare and be responsible for the martial law inside and outside the palace.
Zhiyu's "Jueji" says: Anyone who saves from a solar eclipse wears a red frame scarf to boost the power of Yang.
When the solar eclipse was about to occur, the emperor wore plain clothes and left the main palace, and there was strict security inside and outside the palace.
The Taishi climbed up to the mourning platform, and when the sun changed, he beat the drum at the palace gate.
Hearing the sound of drums, all the ministers wearing red scarves and swords entered the palace to guard the palace.
Officials of the Three Orders and above all stood in front of the doors of their institutions with swords in hand.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
卫尉卿驱驰绕宫，伺察守备。
周而复始，亦伐鼓于社，用周礼也。
又以赤丝为绳以系社，祝史陈辞以责之。
社，勾龙之神，天子之上公，故陈辞以责之。
日复常，乃罢。
汉建安中，将正会，而太史上言，正旦当日蚀。
朝士疑会否，共谘尚书令荀彧。
时广平计吏刘邵在坐，曰： 梓慎、裨灶，古之良史，尤占水火，错失天时。
《礼》，诸侯旅见天子，入门不得终礼者四，日蚀在一。
然则圣人垂制，不为变异豫废朝礼者，或灾消异伏，或推术谬误也。
彧及众人咸善而从之，遂朝会如旧，日亦不蚀，邵由此显名。
至武帝咸宁三年、四年，并以正旦合朔却元会，改魏故事也。
元帝太兴元年四月，合朔，中书侍郎孔愉奏曰： 《春秋》，日有蚀之，天子伐鼓于社，攻诸阴也；诸侯伐鼓于朝，臣自攻也。
案尚书符，若日有变，便击鼓于诸门，有违旧典。
translation: 
Wei Weiqing rode around the palace city, patrolling and guarding, over and over again.
At the same time, drums were played in the temple, using the rituals of the Zhou Dynasty.
He also made a rope with red silk thread to tie the god of society, and Zhu Shi made speeches to the god of society to blame it.
The social god is the Goulong God, the emperor's superior, so Chen Ci came to blame him.
The sun returned to normal, and then he gave up.
In the mid-Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, officials were about to meet at court on New Year's Day, but Taishi reported that there was a solar eclipse on New Year's Day.
The courtiers didn't know whether they should go to court, so they jointly asked Shangshu Ling Xun or for advice.
At that time, Liu Shao, a planner in Guangping, was present and said: Zi Shen and Pi Chong are good historians in ancient times, but when it comes to predicting floods and fires, they sometimes miss the weather.
The book "Li" stipulates that when the princes meet the emperor together, there are four reasons why they cannot complete the ceremony after entering the door, and solar eclipse is one of them.
However, the system passed down by the saints does not cancel the rituals of court meetings in advance because of unexpected changes. This is because sometimes disasters disappear on their own without happening, and sometimes there are errors in calculations.
Xun Yu and everyone else thought it was reasonable and listened to his opinion, so the court meeting continued as usual, and there was no solar eclipse. Liu Shao became famous because of this incident.
In the third and fourth years of Emperor Wu's reign in Xianning, the court meetings on New Year's Day were canceled because New Year's Day coincided with Heshuo, which changed Wei's old system.
In April of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, on the first day of the lunar month, Kong Yu, the minister of Zhongshu, wrote: "Spring and Autumn" says that when there is a solar eclipse, the emperor beats drums in the temple to attack Yin; the princes beat drums in the court hall to attack themselves.
According to the talisman issued by the Chancellor, if there is a change in the sun, drums should be beaten in front of each door, which is against the regulations of sales.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
诏曰： 所陈有正义，辄敕外改之。
至康帝建元元年，太史上元日合朔，后复疑应却会与否。
庾冰辅政，写刘邵议以示八坐。
于时有谓邵为不得礼意，荀彧从之，是胜人之一失。
故蔡谟遂著议非之，曰： 邵论灾消异伏，又以梓慎、裨灶犹有错失，太史上言，亦不必审，其理诚然也。
而云圣人垂制，不为变异豫废朝礼，此则谬矣。
灾祥之发，所以谴告人君，王者之所重诫，故素服废乐，退避正寝，百官降物，用币伐鼓，躬亲而救之。
夫敬诫之事，与其疑而废之，宁慎而行之。
故孔子、老聃助葬于巷党，以丧不见星而行，故日蚀而止柩，曰安知其不见星也。
而邵废之，是弃圣贤之成规也。
鲁桓公壬申有灾，而以乙亥尝祭，《春秋》讥之。
灾事既过，犹追惧未已，故废宗庙之察，况闻天眚将至，行庆乐之会，于礼乖矣。
translation: 
The edict said: "The problem stated is in line with the right path. Immediately send an order to change the original arrangement."
In the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Taishi reported that New Year's Day would be the first day of the new year, but later it became unclear whether the court meeting should be cancelled.
Yu Bing was assisting in the government affairs and wrote Liu Shao's comments and showed them to senior officials up to the eighth seat.
At that time, some people said that Liu Shao's opinion was not in line with the spirit of etiquette. If Xun followed him, it was a temporary fault of a wise man.
Therefore, Cai Mo wrote a paper criticizing Liu Shao, saying: The disasters proposed by Liu Shao disappeared on their own and did not occur. He also believed that even Zi Shen and Bi Zao made mistakes, so he did not need to take Taishi's report very seriously. These principles are naturally correct.
But he was wrong when he said that the system passed down by the saints did not cancel the court etiquette in advance because of disasters.
The occurrence of disasters is to condemn and inform the king. It is a warning from heaven that the king attaches great importance to. Therefore, he wears plain clothes and stops playing music and retreats from his sleep. The officials wear plain clothes, offer offerings and beat drums to save it personally.
In all matters that revere God and accept God's warning, it is better to follow it carefully than to doubt it and cancel it.
So when Confucius and Lao Dan were helping people perform funerals in the countryside, because the funeral had to be held without stars, they stopped the coffin when there was a solar eclipse and asked how they knew there would be no stars.
But Liu Shao canceled this kind of ceremony, which was abandoning the custom of sages.
Duke Huan of Lu encountered a disaster on Renshen day, but he held a sacrifice on Yihai day three days later. The Spring and Autumn Annals criticized him.
The disaster was over, but the fear still persisted, so the sacrifices in the ancestral temple were cancelled. Not to mention that it was against etiquette to hold a celebration and entertainment party after knowing that Tianyi was coming.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
《礼记》所云诸侯入门不得终礼者，谓日官不豫言，诸侯既入，见蚀乃知耳，非先闻当蚀而朝会不废也。
引此，可谓失其义旨。
刘邵所执者《礼记》也，夫子、老聃巷党之事，亦《礼记》所言，复违而反之，进退无据。
然荀令所善，汉朝所从，遂使此言至今见称，莫知其误矣，后来君子将拟以为式，故正之云尔。
于是冰从众议，遂以却会。
至永和中，殷浩辅政，又欲从刘邵议不却会。
王彪之据咸宁、建元故事，又曰： 《礼》云诸侯旅见天子，不得终礼而废者四，自谓卒暴有之，非为先存其事，而侥幸史官推术缪错，故不豫废朝礼也。
于是又从彪之议。
《尚书》 禋于六宗 ，诸儒互说，往往不同。
王莽以《易》六子，遂立六宗祠。
魏明帝时疑其事，以问王肃，亦以为易六子，故不废。
translation: 
The "Book of Rites" refers to the situation where the princes were unable to complete the etiquette after entering the house. It refers to the fact that the Japanese officials did not warn the princes. After the princes entered, they only knew about the solar eclipse when they saw it. It was not that they knew there would be a solar eclipse in advance and did not cancel the court meeting.
Quoting this can be said to have lost its original meaning.
Liu Shao relied on the "Book of Rites". The affairs of Master and Lao Dan in the countryside were also mentioned in the "Book of Rites", but they violated it, and there was no basis for making or choosing.
However, Xun Ling praised it and the Han Dynasty followed it, so these statements are still quoted today. No one understands its error. Gentlemen in the future will use it as a standard, so they must correct it.
So Yu Bing listened to everyone's opinions and canceled the court meeting.
During the Yonghe period, Yin Hao assisted in government affairs and wanted to adopt Liu Shao's ideas without canceling the court meeting.
Wang Biaozhi, based on the old rules from Xianning and Jianyuan times, added: "The Book of Rites" says that there are four reasons why the princes met the emperor together and were unable to complete the ceremony and were interrupted. He thought it meant a sudden accident, rather than knowing in advance that those events would happen, but he hoped that the historian's calculations were wrong, so he did not cancel the etiquette of the court meeting in advance.
So he listened to Biao Zhi's opinion.
In "Shangshu", there is a sentence "Sacrifice to the six sects". Confucian scholars have different interpretations, often in different ways.
Wang Mang established six ancestral halls based on the "Six Sons" mentioned in the "Book of Changes".
When Emperor Wei Ming was in power, he doubted this and asked Wang Su. Wang Su also believed that it was the six sons mentioned in the "Book of Changes", so he did not cancel it.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
及晋受命，司马彪等表六宗之祀不应特立新礼，于是遂罢其祀。
其后挚虞奏之，又以为： 案舜受终， 类于上帝，系于六宗，望于山川 ，则六宗非上帝之神，又非山川之灵也。
《周礼》肆师职曰： 用牲于社宗。
党正职曰： 春秋祭禜亦如之。
肆师之宗，与社并列，则班与社同也。
党正之禜，文不系社，则神与社异也。
周之命祀，莫重郊社，宗同于社，则贵神明矣。
又，《月令》孟冬祈于天宗，则《周礼》祭禜，《月令》天宗，六宗之神也。
汉光武即位高邑，依《虞书》禋于六宗。
安帝元初中，立祀乾位，礼同太社。
魏氏因之，至景初二年，大议其神，朝士纷纭，各有所执。
惟散骑常侍刘邵以为万物负阴而抱阳，冲气以为和。
六宗者，太极冲和之气，为六气之宗者也。
《虞书》谓之六宗，《周书》谓之天宗。
是时考论异同，而从其议。
translation: 
After Jin received the Mandate of Heaven, Sima Biao and others stated in a statement that no new rituals should be established for the sacrifices of the six sects, so they stopped those sacrifices.
Later, Zhiyu reported on this matter and thought: When Shun took over the throne, he sacrificed to God in class, worshiped in the six sects, and worshiped the mountains and rivers in sight. Therefore, the six sects are not the names of God, nor are they the gods of mountains.
"The Rites of Zhou" states about the responsibilities of the Si Shi: He is responsible for the use of animals when offering sacrifices to the ancestors.
Regarding the responsibilities of party officials, it is said: The sacrifices in the Spring and Autumn Period are also like this.
The sect mentioned in the responsibilities of the fourth master is juxtaposed with the society, so the level is the same as the society.
The honorable sacrifice mentioned in the Party Responsibilities does not involve the society, so this god is different from the society.
In the Zhou Dynasty, no sacrifice was more important than Jiao She. Zong was equal to She, so it is clear that it is an important god.
In addition, "Yue Ling" talks about Meng Dong praying to Tianzong, so the sacrifices in "Zhou Rites" and Tianzong in "Yue Ling" are the gods of the six sects.
When Guangwu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne in Gaoyi, he worshiped six sects according to the "Book of Yu".
In the early Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An, a sacrificial place was set up in the direction of Qian. The etiquette was the same as that of Taishe.
Wei inherited this system, and in the second year of Jingchu, there was extensive discussion about this god. The courtiers had different opinions and held their own opinions.
Only Liu Shao, the regular servant of Sanqi, believed that all things contain two opposite and complementary qi of yin and yang, and the two agitate each other to produce a neutralizing qi.
The six sects are the harmonious qi of Tai Chi and are the sects of the six qi.
"Yu Shu" is called the Six Sects, and "Zhou Shu" is called the Tianzong.
At that time, we investigated and studied the various similarities and differences and followed his advice.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
汉魏相仍，著为贵祀。
凡崇祀百神，放而不至，有其兴之，则莫敢废之。
宜定新礼，祀六宗如旧。
诏从之。
《礼》，王为群姓立七祀，曰司命、中霤、国门、国行、大厉、户、灶。
仲春玄鸟至之日，以太牢祀高禖。
《毛诗》《丝衣篇》，高子曰灵星之尸。
汉兴，高帝亦立灵星祠。
及武帝，以李少君故，始祠灶；及生戾太子，始立高禖。
《汉仪》云，国家亦有五祀，有司行事，其礼颇轻于社稷，则亦存其典矣。
又云，常以仲春之月，立高禖祠于城南，祀以特牲。
又，是月也，祠老人星于国都南郊老人星庙。
立夏祭灶，季秋祠心星于城南坛心星庙。
元康时，洛阳犹有高禖坛，百姓祠其旁，或谓之落星。
是后诸祀无闻，江左以来，不立七祀，灵星则配飨南郊，不复特置焉。
translation: 
It was used by the Han and Wei Dynasties and became an important sacrifice.
Anyone who worships and worships a hundred gods will not bless them if they indulge themselves and fail to worship the gods. No one dares to cancel what has been established.
New etiquette should be formulated, and the sacrifices to the six sects should be made as before.
The edict obeyed his opinion.
The book "Li" says that the king established seven sacrifices for each surname, called Siming, Zhongliu, Guomen, Guoxing, Dali, Hu, and Zao.
On the day when the moon Xuanwu arrives in mid-spring, Tailao is used to worship the God of Gaomei.
In the "Silk Clothes Chapter" of "Mao Shi", Gao Zi mentioned the spiritual star.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao also established the Lingxing Temple.
When Emperor Wu arrived, because of Li Shaoxing, he began to worship the stove; when Prince Ru was born, he began to establish the Gaomei God.
"Han Yi" says that the country also has five sacrifices. When there are officials to carry out sacrifices, the etiquette is simpler than the sacrifices related to the country. This means that the relevant regulations and systems have been preserved.
It is also said that in the month of mid-spring, Gaomei Temple is often set up in the south of the city and special sacrifices are used for worship.
In addition, also during this month, Canopus is worshiped at the Canopus Temple in the southern suburbs of the capital.
Sacrifices are made to the Zao in the Beginning of Summer, and to the Heart Star in the Xinxing Temple in the south of the city in autumn.
During the Yuankang period, there was also the Gaomei Altar in Luoyang, and people worshiped beside it. Some people called it the Falling Star.
Since then, I have never heard of any of the above-mentioned sacrifices. After the end of the Jin Dynasty, no seven sacrifices were set up, spiritual stars were placed in the southern suburbs for worship, and no special shrines were set up.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
左氏传 龙见而雩 ，经典尚矣。
汉仪，自立春到立夏，尽立秋，郡国尚旱，郡县各扫除社稷。
其旱也，公卿官长以次行雩礼求雨，闭诸阳，衣皁，兴土龙，立土人，舞僮二佾，七日一变，如故事。
武帝咸宁二年，春久旱。
四月丁已，诏曰 诸旱处广加祈请 。
五月庚午，始祈雨于社稷山川。
六月戊子，获澍雨。
此雩之旧典也。
太康三年四月，十年二月，又如之。
其雨多则禜祭，赤帻硃衣，闭诸阴，硃索萦社，伐硃鼓焉。
《周礼》，王者祭昊天上帝、日月星辰、司中司命、风伯雨师、社稷、五土、五岳、山林川泽、四方百物，兆四类四望，亦如之。
translation: 
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" talks about "dragon meets the tiger", which has long been in the classics.
The etiquette of "Hamou" is from the beginning of spring to the beginning of summer until the beginning of autumn. If the county is in drought for a long time, the counties and counties will clean the Sheji Temple respectively.
When there is a drought, the ministers and officials perform owl rituals according to their rank to pray for rain, turn off various things with yang attributes, wear soap-colored clothes, carry earth dragons, set up native people, and use two rows of dancing boys, changing every seven days, just like the old practice.
In the second year of the reign of Genti Shengkong, there was a long drought in spring.
On Dingsi in April, Xia Shao said that various places with droughts should carry out extensive rituals to pray to gods for rain.
On Gengwu in May, people begin to pray to the gods of Sheji Mountain for rain.
In the sixth month of Wuzi, it rains in time.
This is the old tradition of the Yu Festival.
It happened again in April of the third year of Sai Ao and in February of the tenth year.
If there is too much rain, a Ying Festival will be held, wearing a red frame scarf and red clothes, shutting down various things with negative attributes, wrapping a red rope around the body of the social god, and beating a red drum.
"The Rites of Zhou" says that the king also uses the same etiquette when he offers sacrifices to the God of Haotian, the sun, the moon and the stars, the commander of the division, the god of wind and rain, the god of society and Ji, the five soils, the five pans, mountains, forests, rivers and lakes, and all things in the four directions. He also uses the same etiquette when symbolically offering sacrifices to the four categories and four directions.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
魏文帝黄初二年六月庚子，初礼五岳四渎，咸秩群祀，瘗沈珪璧。
六年七月，帝以舟军入淮。
九月壬戌，遣使者沈璧于淮。
魏明帝太和四年八月，帝东巡，遣使者以特牛祠中岳。
魏元帝咸熙元年，行幸长安，使使者以璧币礼祠华山。
及穆帝升平中，何琦论修五岳祠曰： 唐虞之制，天子五载一巡狩，顺时之方，柴燎五岳，望于山川，遍于群神，故曰，因名山升中于天，所以昭告神祗，飨报功德。
是以灾厉不作，而风雨寒暑以时。
降及三代，年数虽殊，而其礼不易，五岳视三公，四渎视诸侯，著在经纪，所谓 有其举之，莫敢废也。 及秦汉都西京，泾、渭、长水，虽不在祀典，以近咸阳故，尽得比大川之祠，而正立之祀可以阙哉！自永嘉之乱，神州倾覆，兹事替矣。
惟灊之天柱，在王略之内也，旧台选百户吏卒，以奉其职。
中兴之际，未有官守，庐江郡常遣大吏兼假四时祷赛，春释寒而冬请冰。
咸和迄今，又复隳替。
translation: 
In June of the second year of Emperor Huangchu of the Wei Dynasty, Gengzi performed ritual sacrifices to the Five Mountains and Four Dus for the first time. They arranged the groups of sacrifices one by one, and buried the guis and bis in the soil or sunk them into the water as offerings.
In July of the sixth year, the emperor led the navy into the Huaihe River.
In the ninth month of Renxu, an envoy was sent to sink the jade into the Huaihe River.
In August of the fourth year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, the emperor went on a tour to the East and sent envoys to worship Zhongyue in the special ox shrine.
In the first year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei Dynasty, he patrolled to Chang'an and sent envoys to use bis and coins to worship Jianshan in the temple.
During the reign of Emperor Mu, He Qi discussed the restoration of temple sacrifices to the Five Mountains and said: According to the system of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, the emperor patrolled once every five years. According to the directions corresponding to the seasons, he burned firewood to offer sacrifices to the Five Mountains.
Therefore, disasters and epidemics do not occur, but wind, rain, cold and heat come with the seasons.
When it was passed down to the third generation, although the years were different, the etiquette did not change. The Five Mountains were regarded as the three princes, and the four mountains were regarded as the princes. It was recorded in the classic biographies, which is often said. If it exists, it will be followed, and no one dares to abolish it. In the Qin Desert, the capitals of Xijing, Jing, Wei, and Changcheng were established. Although they are not recorded in the sacrificial documents, because they are close to Xiandui, they can have temple sacrifices like treating big rivers. Can the originally established sacrifices be cancelled? Since the Yongjia turmoil, China has been turned upside down, and these things have disappeared.
Only in the area under the king's jurisdiction was the Diugua Mountain of Sadi. In the old days, hundreds of corpse officials were selected from Taiwan Province to serve and carry out relevant tasks.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, there were no responsible officials. Lujiang County often sent senior officials to take charge of praying and honoring the gods in the four seasons. In spring, they thanked the cold for dispelling the cold and in winter, they prayed for the collection of large ice.
Since the Shenghe period, these systems have been destroyed again.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
计今非典之祠，可谓非一。
考其正名，则淫昏之鬼；推其糜费，则百姓之蠹。
而山川大神更为简缺，礼俗穨紊，人神杂扰，公私奔蹙，渐以繁滋。
良由顷国家多难，日不暇给，草建废滞，事有未遑。
今元憝已歼，宜修旧典。
岳渎之域，风教所被，来苏之众，咸蒙德泽。
而神明禋祀，未之或甄，巡狩柴燎，其废尚矣。
崇明前典，将俟皇舆北旋，稽古宪章，大厘制度。
俎豆牲牢，祝嘏文辞，旧章靡记，可令礼官作式，归诸诚简，以达明德馨香，如斯而已。
其诸袄孽，可粗依法令，先去其甚，俾邪正不黩。
时不见省。
translation: 
It is estimated that there are more than one or two kinds of temple sacrifices that do not comply with the old regulations.
Looking at their real names, they are ghosts with excessive etiquette and ignorance; looking at their waste, they are a silverfish for the common people.
However, the great god of the mountain is even more lacking in worship, the etiquette and customs are decadent and disordered, the relationship between the gods is messy and confusing, and the public and private situations are tense and urgent, gradually it becomes increasingly corrupt.
The reason for the creation of nature is that the country has suffered many disasters and has no time to deal with these affairs. Start-up or construction has been stopped, and there is no time to deal with many things.
Now that the culprit has been eliminated, the old rules and regulations should be enforced again.
The Yuedu area is a place with good customs and education, and the people who have gained a new life are all blessed with virtue.
However, which gods and how to worship them have not yet been determined. The system of hunting tours and the practice of burning firewood and offering sacrifices have been abandoned for a long time.
We advocate clarifying the ancient laws and regulations, and wait until the emperor returns to the north to examine the ancient laws and regulations and formulate a comprehensive system.
There are no records in the old documents about the animal cells placed in the doudou and the words used to pray to the worshipers. We can let the ritual officials formulate some regulations, strive to be sincere and simple and easy to implement, and use them to express the original purpose of Mingde and Xiangxiang. Just like this.
For the rest of the evil spirits and ghosts, we can roughly follow the laws and abolish the worst ones first, so that evil ghosts and righteous gods will not be confused.
It was not taken seriously at the time.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
昔武王入殷，未及下车而封先代之后，盖追思其德也。
孔子以大圣而终于陪臣，未有封爵。
至汉元帝，孔霸以帝师赐爵，号褒成君，奉孔子后。
魏文帝黄初二年正月，诏以议郎孔羡为宗圣侯，邑百户，奉孔子祀，令鲁郡修旧庙，置百户吏卒以守卫之。
及武帝泰始三年十一月，改封宗圣侯孔震为奉圣亭侯。
又诏太学及鲁国，四时备三牲以祀孔子。
明帝太宁三年，诏给奉圣亭侯孔亭四时祠孔子祭直，如泰始故事。
礼，始立学必先释奠于先圣先师，及行事必用币。
汉世虽立学，斯礼无闻。
translation: 
In the past, when King Wu entered Yin, he enfeoffed the descendants of the previous dynasty without waiting to get off the bus. This was because he remembered the virtues of the previous dynasty.
As a great sage, Confucius was always a companion and did not receive a title or title.
During the reign of Emperor Moyuan, Kong Ba was awarded a title as the emperor's teacher, named Baochengjun, and was regarded as a descendant of Confucius.
In the first month of the second year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, the Shaoling Emperor granted Yilang Kong Xian the title of Zongshenghou. He granted him the title of a hundred households and enshrined the incense of Confucius. He ordered Lu County to build an old temple and set up officials from hundreds of households to guard it.
In November of the third year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the title of Kong Zhen, the sage saint of the clan, was changed to the title of Fengsheng Tinghou.
He also issued an edict to Taixue and the State of Lu to prepare three animals at all times to offer sacrifices to Confucius.
In the third year of Emperor Taining's reign, Emperor Ming issued an edict to let Feng Shengting Hou Kongting preside over the sacrifices to Confucius at the Four Seasons Temple, just like the old practice in Taishi.
Etiquette stipulates that at the beginning of establishing a school, wine and food must be offered as a memorial to the sages and teachers, and coins must be used as offerings during the ceremony.
Although schools were established in the Han Dynasty, this kind of etiquette has never been practiced.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
魏齐王正始二年二月，帝讲论语通，五年五月，讲《尚书》通，七年十二月，讲《礼记》通，并使太常释奠，以太牢祠孔子于辟雍，以颜回配。
武帝泰始七年，皇太子讲《孝经》通。
咸宁三年，讲《诗》通，太康三年，讲《礼记》通。
惠帝元康三年，皇太子讲《论语》通。
元帝太兴二年，皇太子讲《论语》通。
太子并亲释奠，以太牢祠孔子，以颜回配。
成帝咸康元年，帝讲《诗》通。
穆帝升平元年三月，帝讲《孝经》通。
孝武宁康三年七月，帝讲《孝经》通。
并释奠如故事。穆帝、孝武并权以中堂为太学。
故事，祀皋陶于廷尉寺，新礼移祀于律署，以同祭先圣于太学也。
故事，祀以社日，新礼改以孟秋之月，以应秋政。
挚虞以为： 案《虞书》，皋陶作士师，惟明克允，国重其功，人思其当，是以狱官礼其神，系者致其祭，功在断狱之成，不在律令之始也。
大学之设，义重太常，故祭于太学，是崇圣而从重也。
translation: 
In February of the second year of the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, the emperor finished studying "The Analects of Confucius", in May of the fifth year he finished studying "Shangshu", and in December of the seventh year he finished studying "Book of Rites". They all sent Taichang to prepare wine and food in memory of Confucius.
In the seventh year of Emperor Wu's reign, the crown prince finished studying the Classic of Filial Piety.
In the third year of Xianning, he finished studying the Book of Songs, and in the third year of Taikang, he finished studying the Book of Rites.
In the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the crown prince finished studying the Analects of Confucius.
In the second year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the crown prince finished studying the Analects of Confucius.
The prince personally prepared wine and food to offer sacrifices to Confucius.
In the first year of Emperor Xiankang's reign, the emperor finished studying the Book of Songs.
In March of the first year of Emperor Mu's reign, he finished studying the Classic of Filial Piety.
In July of the third year of Xiaowu and Ningkang, the emperor finished studying the "Book of Filial Piety".
They all served wine and food as the old custom, and both Emperor Mu and Xiaowu temporarily used the middle hall as the Imperial Academy.
In the old practice, Fengdi was worshiped in Tingwei Temple. The new etiquette moved the sacrifice to the Law Office, which was equivalent to worshiping the ancestors in Taixue.
In the old practice, sacrifices were held on the social day, but the new etiquette was changed to the month of Mengqiu to comply with the political affairs of autumn.
Tian Lu believes: According to the "Book of Yu", Sai Qiong set up judges to be in charge of the prisons, and they were aware of everything. The country valued his achievements, and the people missed his justice, so the prison officials worshiped his shrine and the prisoners offered sacrifices to him.
The purpose of the establishment of Taixue is to attach great importance to Taichang, so setting up sacrifices in Taixue is to respect the saints and take care of the important things.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
律署之置，卑于廷尉，移祀于署，是去重而就轻也。
律非正署，废兴无常，宜如旧祀于廷尉。
又，祭用仲春，义取重生，改用孟秋，以应刑杀，理未足以相易。
宜定新礼，皆如旧。 制： 可。
岁旦常设苇茭桃梗，磔鸡于宫及百寺之门，以禳恶气。
案汉仪则仲夏设之，有桃印，无磔鸡。
及魏明帝大修禳礼，故何晏禳祭议鸡特牲供禳衅之事。
磔鸡宜起于魏，桃印本汉制，所以辅卯金，又宜魏所除也。
但未详改仲夏在岁旦之所起耳。
魏明帝青龙元年，诏郡国，山川不在祀典者勿祠。
武帝泰始元年十二月，诏曰： 昔圣帝明王修五岳四渎，名山川泽，各有定制，所以报阴阳之功故也。
translation: 
The Law Office is a lower-ranking organization than the Tingwei. Moving the sacrifices to the office is to eliminate the important and lighten it.
The law is not a formal official office, and there are no rules for its disposal or establishment. It should be worshiped at Tingwei as in the old practice.
In addition, the sacrifice was held in mid-spring. The original intention was to take the meaning of attaching importance to life and change it to Mengqiu to comply with the punishment of killing. In principle, it was not enough to change the old system.
New etiquette should be established, exactly like the old system. Order: Agree.
Every New Year's Day, reed ropes and peach stalks are often set up to kill the harem in front of the palace and various government offices to ward off evil spirits.
During the inspection of Moyi, these were set up in midsummer, with peach seals and no chicken killing.
Emperor Ming of the Wei Dynasty promoted the Zhou ritual, so He Yan proposed to use special animals for sacrifices such as Zhou Chai.
Killing chickens should have started in the Wei Dynasty. The peach seal originally came from the Han Dynasty system and was used to assist Mao Jin, and it should have been abolished by the Wei Dynasty.
It’s just not clear what the basis was for changing Midsummer to New Year’s Day.
In the first year of Qinglong, Emperor Wei Ming ordered all counties and counties not to go to temples for sacrifices in any mountain that was not recorded in the sacrificial regulations.
In December of the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the edict stated: In the past, the Holy Emperor and King Ming worshiped the Five Mountains and Four Mountains, famous mountains and lakes, and each had a certain system to report the changes and harmony of Yin and Yang.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
然以道莅天下者，其鬼不神，其神不伤人，故祝史荐而无愧辞，是以其人敬慎幽冥而淫祀不作。
末世信道不笃，僭礼渎神，纵欲祈请，曾不敬而远之，徒偷以求幸，袄妄相煽，舍正为邪，故魏朝疾之。
其案旧礼具为之制，使功著于人者必有其报，而袄淫之鬼不乱其间。
二年正月，有司奏春分祠厉殃及禳祠，诏曰： 不在祀典，除之。
《王制》，天子七庙，诸侯以下各有等差，礼文详矣。
汉献帝建安十八年五月，以河北十郡封魏武帝为魏公。
是年七月，始建宗庙于鄴，自以诸侯礼立五庙也。
后虽进爵为王，无所改易。
translation: 
However, for those who rule the world with the Tao, the ghosts there are ineffective and the gods will not harm people. Therefore, the ministers and historians do not have words to make their hearts feel ashamed when they offer sacrifices. Therefore, although people at that time were cautious in worshiping the gods in the netherworld, no obscene sacrifices occurred.
People in the last days do not believe in Tao sincerely, violate etiquette and blaspheme the gods, pray and ask for whatever they want without respecting them at all, blindly seek to live by luck, and evil spirits encourage each other, abandoning the right way and embarking on evil paths, so the Wei Dynasty is very dissatisfied with this aspect.
They studied the old rituals and formulated a system in detail so that those who performed the deities' achievements in the human world would definitely be rewarded, and evil and unruly ghosts could not cause trouble in the process.
In the first month of the second year, an official issued a petition asking for temple sacrifices to be held at the vernal equinox and to eliminate evil spirits. The edict said: "It is not bound by the regulations on sacrifices, and they should be abolished."
The "King System" stipulates that the emperor will set up seven temples, and those below the princes will have different levels according to their levels. The records of etiquette are very detailed.
In May of the 18th year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty granted ten counties in Hebei to Emperor Wu of Wei as Wei Gong.
In July of that year, he began to build an ancestral temple in Ye, and he established five temples according to the etiquette of the princes.
Although he was later knighted and became a king, nothing changed.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
延康元年，文帝继王位，七月，追尊皇祖为大王，丁夫人曰大王后。
黄初元年十一月受禅，又追尊大王曰大皇帝，皇考武王曰武皇帝。
二年六月，以洛京宗庙未成，乃祠武帝于建始殿，亲执馈奠，如家人礼。
案《礼》将营宫室，宗庙为先，庶人无庙，故祭于寝，帝者行之非礼甚矣。
明帝太和三年六月，又追尊高祖大长秋曰高皇，夫人吴氏曰高皇后，并在鄴庙。
庙所祠，则文帝之高祖处士、曾祖高皇、祖大皇帝共一庙，考太祖武皇帝特一庙，百世不毁，然则所祠止于亲庙四室也。
其年十一月，洛京庙成，则以亲尽迁处士主置园邑，使行太傅太常韩暨、行太常宗正曹恪持节迎高皇以下神主，共一庙，犹为四室而已。
至景初元年六月，群公有司始更奏定七庙之制，曰： 大魏三圣相承，以成帝业。
武皇帝肇建洪基，拨乱夷险，为魏太祖。
文皇帝继天革命，应期受禅，为魏高祖。
上集成大命，清定华夏，兴制礼乐，宜为魏烈祖。
于太祖庙北为二祧，其左为文帝庙，号曰高祖昭祧，其右拟明帝，号曰烈祖穆祧。
translation: 
In the first year of Yankang, Emperor Wen succeeded to the throne. In July, he honored the emperor as the great king, and Mrs. Ding was called the great queen.
In November of the first year of Huangchu's reign, he accepted the Zen throne, and he honored the great king as the great emperor, and Emperor Kao Wu as the emperor.
In June of the second year, since the ancestral temple in Luojing had not yet been completed, he worshiped Emperor Wu at the Jianshi Hall Temple and personally held the offerings to pay homage, just like saluting at home.
Examining the "Li" book, it is stipulated that when building a palace, the ancestral temple should be built first. Common people do not have a temple, so they offer sacrifices in their bedrooms. It is very inconsistent with etiquette for an emperor to do this.
In the sixth month of the third year of Taihe, Emperor Ming also honored his great ancestor Dachangqiu as the direct emperor, and his wife Wu as the empress Gao. They were enshrined in the ancestral temple in Ye.
The temple in the temple is dedicated to Emperor Wen's great ancestors Chu Shi, great ancestor Gao Huang, and ancestor great emperor. They are all in one temple. Emperor Taizu Wu is a single temple and will not be destroyed for a hundred generations. However, the sacrifices in the temple are only four rooms in the temple.
In November of this year, the ancestral temple in Luojing was completed. Because the family ties had been fulfilled, the priest's shrine was moved to Yuanyi, and Taifu Taichang Hanji and Taichang Zongzhengcao Kejie were sent to welcome the shrines below Emperor Gao. They were all in one temple and still only had four rooms.
In June of the first year of Jingchu, Qun Gong and Yousi Cai again petitioned to formulate a system of seven temples, saying: The three holy masters of Dadian succeeded each other and thus achieved the emperor's career.
Emperor Wu established a great foundation and rectified chaos, and was called Taizu of Wei.
Emperor Wen accepted the will of heaven and abolished the imperial decree, and accepted the throne in accordance with the current situation. He was called Wei Gaodan.
The emperor fulfilled his great mission, pacified China, and reestablished rituals and music. He should be called Wei Liezu.
Two temples are set up to the north of Taizu's temple. On the left is Wenyi's temple, named Gaozu Zhaotao, and on the right is Mingtong's temple, named Liezu Muzu.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
三祖之庙，万世不毁。
其余四庙，亲尽迭迁，一如周后稷、文武庙祧之礼。
文帝甄后赐死，故不列庙。
明帝即位，有司奏请追谥曰文昭皇后，使司空王朗持节奉策告祠于陵。
三公又奏曰： 自古周人归祖后稷，又特立庙以祀姜嫄。
今文昭皇后之于后嗣，圣德至化，岂有量哉！夫以皇家世妃之尊，神灵迁化，而无寝庙以承享祀，非以报显德，昭孝敬也。
稽之古制，宜依周礼，别立寝庙。
奏可。
太和元年二月，立庙于鄴。
四月，洛邑初营宗庙，掘地得玉玺，方一寸九分，其文曰 天子羡思慈亲。
明帝为之改容，以太牢告庙。
至景初元年十二月己未，有司又奏文昭皇后立庙京师，永传享祀，乐舞与祖庙同，废鄴庙。
translation: 
The temple of the third ancestor will never be destroyed.
The remaining four temples were replaced and moved when the family ties were fulfilled, in full accordance with the etiquette of the temples of Hou Ji and King Wen and King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty.
Emperor Wen's empress Zhen was sentenced to death, so she was not listed in the temple.
When Emperor Ming came to the throne, a minister asked Mi to be Empress Wenzhao, and sent Sikong Wanglang to the mausoleum to announce her wishes to the emperor.
Sangong wrote again: Since ancient times, people have recognized Qiu Mo as their ancestor, and have set up a separate temple to worship Cha Mian.
Today's Empress Wen Zhao has left saintly virtues and great teachings to her descendants, but there is no limit to the amount. Speaking of it, with the dignity of the imperial concubine, after her soul transformed into a god, she did not have a temple to receive sacrifices. This is not repaying virtue and showing filial piety.
When examining the ancient system, we should establish separate sleeping temples in accordance with the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty.
The memorial was approved.
In February of the first year of Taihe, a temple was built in Ye.
In April, Luoyi began to build the ancestral temple. When digging the ground, they found a jade seal with a side length of one inch and nine minutes. The seal on it was "The Emperor is envious of his relatives."
Emperor Ming was so excited when he saw the seal that he went to the temple to offer sacrifices.
By the end of December of the first year of Jingchu, another official petitioned to build a temple for Empress Wenzhao in the capital to carry out permanent worship. The standards of music, song and dance were the same as those in the ancestral temple, and the temple in Ye was cancelled.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
魏元帝咸熙元年，进文帝爵为王，追命舞阳宣文侯为宣王，忠武侯为景王。
是年八月，文帝崩，谥曰文王。
武帝泰始元年十二月丙寅，受禅，丁卯，追尊皇祖宣王为宣皇帝，伯考景王为景皇帝，考文王为文皇帝，宣王妃张氏为宣穆皇后，景王夫人羊氏为景皇后。
二年正月，有司奏置七庙。
帝重其役，诏宜权立一庙。
于是群臣议奏： 上古清庙一宫，尊远神祗。
逮至周室，制为七庙，以辩宗祧。
圣旨深弘，远迹上世，敦崇唐虞，舍七庙之繁华，遵一宫之远旨。
昔舜承尧禅，受终文祖，遂陟帝位，盖三十载，月正元日，又格于文祖，遂陟帝位，此则虞氏不改唐庙，因仍旧宫。
可依有虞氏故事，即用魏庙。
奏可。
于是追祭征西将军、豫章府君、颍川府君、京兆府君，与宣皇帝、景皇帝、文皇帝为三昭三穆。
是时宣皇未升，太祖虚位，所以祠六世，与景帝为七庙，其礼则据王肃说也。
translation: 
In the first year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei, the Jin Dynasty granted the title of Emperor Wen to the title of King, and appointed Marquis Wuyang Xuanwen as King Xuan and Marquis Zhongwu as King Jing.
In August of this year, Emperor Wen died, and Mi was given the title King Wen.
In December of the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, Bingyin accepted the Zen position. Ding Mao, after his ancestor, King Xuan was named Emperor Xuan, King Bo Kao Jing was named Emperor Jing, King Kao Wen was named Emperor Wen, Princess Zhang of Xuan was named Queen Xuanmu, and King Jing's wife Yang was Queen Jing.
In the first month of the second year, a minister requested the establishment of seven temples.
The emperor thought that the project was too big, so Shao Ling should build a temple.
So the officials submitted a proposal: In ancient times, the ancestral temple had only one palace, which was dedicated to the ancestor gods.
When it came to the Zhou Dynasty, it was designated as seven temples to distinguish distant ancestors of the clan.
The Holy Spirit’s purpose is profound and grand. Imitate the ancient times, devoutly worship the style of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty, abandon the prosperity of seven temples, and follow the ancient style of one palace.
In the past, Shun accepted Yao's abdication and was appointed by heaven, so he ascended the throne. After thirty years, the lunar month coincided with the New Year's Day and other calendars, and he abided by Wenzu's system. The Lu family did not change Tang Yao's ancestral temple and continued to use the old palace.
We can use the ancestral temple of Wei according to the old practice of the Yu family.
The memorial was approved.
So they worshiped General Zhengxi, Lord Yuzhang, Lord Yingchuan, Lord Jingzhao, as well as Emperor Xuan, Emperor Jing and Emperor Wen as the Three Zhaos and Three Mu.
At that time, the emperor Xuan's god was not in place, and the Taizu shrine was empty, so there were six generations worshiped in the temple, and seven temples in total including Emperor Jing. The relevant rituals were based on Wang Su's explanation.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
七月，又诏曰： 主者前奏，就魏旧庙，诚亦有准。
然于祗奉神明，情犹未安，宜更营造。
于是改创宗庙。
十一月，追尊景帝夫人夏侯氏为景怀皇后。
任茂议以为夏侯初嫔之时，未有王业。
帝不从。
太康元年，灵寿公主修丽祔于太庙，周汉未有其准。
魏明帝则别立平原主庙，晋又异魏也。
六年，因庙陷，当改修创，群臣又议奏曰： 古者七庙异所，自宜如礼。
诏又曰： 古虽七庙，自近代以来皆一庙七室，于礼无废，于情为叙，亦随时之宜也。
其便仍旧。
至十年，乃更改筑于宣阳门内，穷极壮丽，然坎位之制犹如初尔。
庙成，帝用挚虞议，率百官迁神主于新庙，自征西以下，车服导从皆如帝者之仪。
translation: 
In July, another edict was issued saying: The person in charge reported not long ago that it is indeed reasonable to use the old temples in Wei.
However, I still feel that it is not emotionally appropriate to worship the gods, and another temple should be built.
So another ancestral temple was built.
In November, Xiahou, the wife of Emperor Jing, was honored as Queen Jinghuai.
Ren Peng raised the objection that when Xia Bao was a concubine, there was no royal industry.
The emperor did not listen.
In the first year of Taikang, Princess Lingshou Xiuli was sacrificed in the Ancestral Temple. There was no such situation in the ritual system.
Emperor Wei Ming established another temple to worship the Lord of Pingyuan. Jin was different from Wei again.
In the eighth year, due to the sinking of the ancestral temple, another building needed to be built. The officials discussed and reported: In ancient times, the seven temples were not built in the same place, so they should naturally follow the ancient rituals.
The edict also said: Although there were seven temples in ancient times, since modern times, they have been one temple and seven chambers. Nothing has been abolished in terms of etiquette, and the expression of family affection is relatively smooth. This is also an appropriate approach adopted with different times.
Let’s use the original place.
In the 10th year of Taikang, it was rebuilt inside the Xuanyang Gate. It was extremely magnificent, but the system set up at the ridge was still the same as before.
After the ancestral temple was completed, the emperor adopted Zhi Yu's advice and led hundreds of officials to move the deities to the new temple. The chariots, horses, clothing, and entourage used by the deities from Zhengxi and below were all in accordance with the emperor's ceremonial standards.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
及武帝崩则迁征西，及惠帝崩又迁豫章。
而惠帝世愍怀太子、太子二子哀太孙臧、冲太孙尚并祔庙，元帝世，怀帝殇太子又祔庙，号为阴室四殇。
怀帝初，又策谥武帝杨后曰武悼皇后，改葬峻阳陵侧，别祠弘训宫，不列于庙。
元帝既即尊位，上继武帝，于元为祢，如汉光武上继元帝故事也。
是时，西京神主，堙灭虏庭，江左建庙，皆更新造。
寻以登怀帝之主，又迁颍川，位虽七室，其实五世，盖从刁协以兄弟为世数故也。
于时百度草创，旧礼未备，毁主权居别室。
至太兴三年正月乙卯，诏曰： 吾虽上继世祖，然于怀、愍皇帝皆北面称臣。
translation: 
When Emperor Wu died, the god master of Zhengxi was moved away, and when Emperor Hui died, the god master of Yuzhang was moved away.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the prince's two sons, Ai's grandson Sima Zang and Chong's grandson Sima Shang, were sacrificed in the ancestral temple. During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Prince Huaicha's mourning was sacrificed in the ancestral temple. They were known as the Four Sorrows in the Underworld.
In the early years of Emperor Huai's reign, Emperor Wu ordered Yang Houmi to be named Empress Wu Miao and be buried next to Junyang Mausoleum. In addition, she was offered sacrifices in the Hongxun Palace Temple instead of the ancestral temple.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, he succeeded Emperor Wu from above and used Emperor Wu as the god of supplementary sacrifices. This was imitated by the old practice of Emperor Guang of Han who succeeded Emperor Yuan of Han above.
At that time, the divine master in Xijing was destroyed in the hands of the enemy, and the ancestral temple was built in the Eastern Jin Dynasty and all rebuilt.
Soon after, Emperor Huai's divine master was enshrined, and Yingfujun's divine master was moved away. Although the divine throne has seven chambers, it is actually only five generations. This is because Diao Jian's opinion was adopted to include the brothers in the dynasty algebra.
At that time, various systems had just begun to be formulated, and the original etiquette had not been fully restored. The divine sovereignty of the emperors was placed in another room.
On Yimao, the first month of the third year of Taixing, an edict was issued saying: Although I am the successor to Emperor Wu from above, I will all call the emperors Huai and Min in the north as Yuchen.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
今祠太庙，不亲执觞酌，而令有司行事，于情礼不安。
可依礼更处。
太常恆议： 今圣上继武皇帝，宜准汉世祖故事，不亲执觞爵。
又曰： 今上承继武帝，而庙之昭穆，四世而已，前太常贺循、博士傅纯，并以为惠、怀及愍，宜别立庙。
然臣愚谓庙室当以容主为限，无拘常数。
殷世有二祖三宗，若拘七室，则当祭祢而已。
推此论之，宜还复豫章、颍川，全祠七庙之礼。
骠骑长史温峤议： 凡言兄弟不相入庙，既非礼文，且光武奋剑振起，不策名于孝平，务神其事，以应九世之谶，又古不共庙，故别立焉。
今上以策名而言，殊于光武之事，躬奉蒸尝，于经既正，于情又安矣。
太常恆欲还二府君，以全七世，峤谓是宜。
骠骑将军王导从峤议。
峤又曰： 其非子者，可直言皇帝敢告某皇帝，又若以一帝为一世，则不祭祢，反不及庶人。
帝从峤议，悉施用之。
translation: 
Nowadays, when offering sacrifices at the Ancestral Temple, it is inappropriate from a moral and ethical point of view to not serve wine in person but to have a priest perform the ceremony.
This should be rearranged according to etiquette.
Taichang Huaheng proposed: Now that the emperor succeeds Emperor Wu, he should follow the precedent of the ancestors of the Han Dynasty and not personally serve wine as a salute.
He also said: The current sage is the heir to Wutong, but Zhaomu in the ancestral temple is only the fourth generation. His predecessors, Taichang Hehe and Dr. Tanzhong, both believed that a separate sacrificial temple should be established to clean up and repair the tomb.
However, Chen Yu thought that every temple room should accommodate the god and the Lord, and there was no need to stick to the prescribed number.
There were two ancestors and three sects in the Yin Dynasty. If you stick to seven families, you only need to make up for your father's sacrifice.
If we consider this point, we should resume the sacrifices to Yuzhang and Yingchuan, and improve the etiquette of the seven temples.
The commander of the hussar, Shi Wenqiao, suggested: It is against etiquette that brothers cannot enter the ancestral temple together to be sacrificed together. Moreover, Guangwu Fenjian is revitalizing the desert house. Do not attach the name after the filial son to make his career appear miraculous and extraordinary to fulfill the nine lives mentioned in the prophecy. In addition, the ancient system cannot coexist in the same temple, so a separate place for sacrifice is set up.
Today's emperor is different from Guangwu on the issue of naming, and personally presides over the Yanchang sacrifice. It is both reasonable and reasonable.
Taichang Huaheng wanted to restore the two princes' positions in the ancestral temple to improve the etiquette of the same temple for seven generations. Wen Dui thought this was right.
General Wang Dao agreed with Wen Dui's opinion.
He also said: If there is no father-son relationship, you can directly say that the emperor dares to sue a certain emperor during the sacrifice. If an emperor is counted as one life, there will be situations where he will not sacrifice his own father, which is worse than ordinary people.
The emperor listened to Wen Wei's opinions and implemented them all.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
于是乃更定制，还复豫章、颍川于昭穆之位，以同惠帝嗣武故事，而惠、怀、愍三帝自从《春秋》尊尊之义，在庙不替也。
及元帝崩，则豫章复迁。
然元帝神位犹在愍帝之下，故有坎室者十也。
至明帝崩，而颖川又迁，犹十室也。
于时续广太庙，故三迁主并还西储，名之曰祧，以准远庙。成帝咸康七年五月，始作武悼皇后神主，祔于庙，配飨世祖。
成帝崩而康帝承统，以兄弟一世，故不迁京兆，始十一室也。
至康帝崩，穆帝立，永和二年七月，有司奏： 十月殷祭，京兆府君当迁祧室。
昔征西、豫章、颍川三府君毁主，中兴之初权居天府，在庙门之西。
咸康中，太常冯怀表续奉还于西储夹室，谓之为祧，疑亦非礼。
translation: 
Therefore, the etiquette system was re-established and the positions of Zhaomu of Suitong and Zuobei were restored to follow the old rules of the time when Shantong inherited the throne. Naturally, the three emperors Yan, Huai and Biet followed the principle of respect in the "Spring and Autumn Classic" and remained in the ancestral temple without modification.
When Gentong died, Yitong was moved out again.
However, Hutong's divine position is still lower than that of Xingmu, so there are ten kanshi. When Grandma passed away, Ti Ka was moved out again, and there were still ten rooms.
At that time, the Imperial Ancestral Temple was being expanded, so the three moved-out temples were returned to the Western Reserve, where they were called the Ancestral Temple and used as remote temples.
In the fifth month of the seventh year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, he first established the goddess Wu Dao as Queen, and offered sacrifices in the temple to serve the ancestors.
Sheng Hu collapsed and Chen Yi succeeded to the throne. Since brothers were considered equal to each other, the god master did not move out of Sailiu, and there were eleven rooms.
When Yitong died and Tantong came to the throne, in July of that year, a minister reported: When the Yin Festival is held in October, the Lord of Jingzhao Prefecture should move into the ancestral hall.
In the past, the three palaces of Junshenzhu, Zhanmu and Tichuan were destroyed. In the early days of the Zhongxing Dynasty, they temporarily lived in Tianfu, on the west side of the temple gate.
During the Xiankang period, Taichang proposed that he be returned to the Western Reserve's secluded room and given the title of 祧, which may not be in line with etiquette.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
今京兆迁入，是为四世远祖，长在太祖之上。
昔周室太祖世远，故迁有所归。
今晋庙宣皇为主。而四祖居之，是屈祖就孙也；殷祫在上，是代太祖也。
领司徒蔡谟议： 四府君宜改筑别室，若未展者，当入就太庙之室，人莫敢卑其祖，文武不先不窋。
殷祭之日，征西东面，处宣皇之上。
其后迁庙之主，藏于征西之祧，祭荐不绝。
护军将军冯怀议： 礼，无庙者为坛以祭，可立别室藏之，至殷禘则祭于坛也。
辅国将军谯王司马无忌等议： 诸儒谓太王、王季迁主，藏于文武之祧。
如此，府君迁主宜在宣帝庙中。
然今无寝室，宜变通而改筑。
又殷祫太庙，征西东面。
尚书郎孙绰与无忌议同，曰： 太祖虽位始九五，而道以从暢，替人爵之尊，笃天伦之道，所以成教本而光百代也。
translation: 
Now the divine master of Jingzhao has moved in, creating the fourth generation of distant ancestors, always in the upper position of Taizu.
In the past, the great ancestor of Danxu had lived for a long time, so he moved away and had a place to stay.
Nowadays, the ancestral temple is mainly decorated with leek, but the fourth ancestor is put aside. This is wronging the ancestors and accommodating the grandson;
The leader Situ Cai Mo proposed that the four princes should be built in separate temples. If this cannot be implemented, they should be moved and placed in the Ancestral Temple. No one dares to underestimate his ancestors. King Wen and King Wu are not in front of Buzhou.
On the day of the Yin Festival, the god of conquering the west was placed facing east, located above Emperor Xuan.
Since then, the god who moved out of the temple has been hiding in the place where the peach sacrifice was held in Zhengxi, and the sacrifices and offerings must not be interrupted.
Feng Huai, the general guarding the army, suggested: Etiquette says: If there is no temple, set up an altar to offer sacrifices. It can be placed in another room and worshiped on the altar during the Yinshi Festival.
The general of the auxiliary state called King Qiao Sima Wuji and others proposed: Confucian scholars believe that King Tai and Wang Ji moved out and hid in the place where King Wen and King Wu offered sacrifices.
According to this, the god who moved out of Fujun should be in Emperor Xuan's temple.
But now there is no room for the Lord of God, so some modifications should be made and another room should be built.
In addition, when the Yinjia Ceremony is held in the Ancestral Temple, the god who conquers the west should be placed facing the east.
Shangshu Lang Sunchuo and Wuji had the same opinion, saying: Although Taizu first ascended to the ninth position, the road will be smooth only if he follows it, replacing the most noble among human nobles. The morality of pursuing family relationships is used to form the basis of education and shine for generations.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
尚书郎徐禅议： 《礼》 去祧为坛，去坛为墠 ，岁祫则祭之。
今四祖迁主，可藏之石室，有祷则祭于坛墠。
又遣禅至会稽，访处士虞喜。
喜答曰： 汉世韦玄成等以毁主瘗于园，魏朝议者云应埋两阶之间。
且神主本在太庙，若今别室而祭，则不如永藏。
又四君无追号之礼，益明应毁而无祭。
是时简文为抚军、与尚书郎刘邵等奏： 四祖同居西祧，藏主石室，禘祫及祭，如先朝旧仪。
时陈留范宣兄子问此礼，宣答曰： 舜庙所祭，皆是庶人，其后世远而毁，不居舜上，不序昭穆。
今四君号犹依本，非以功德致祀也。
若依虞主之瘗，则犹藏子孙之所；若依夏主之埋，则又非本庙之阶。
宜思其变，则筑一室，亲未尽则禘祫处宣帝之上，亲尽则无缘下就子孙之列。
translation: 
Shang Shulang Xu Chan proposed: "Li": Remove the peach for the altar, remove the altar for the cicada, and only sacrifice him when there is a sacrifice.
Nowadays, the god of the fourth ancestor has moved out and can be kept in a stone chamber. When there is prayer time, sacrifices can be made in a place like an altar with cicadas.
He also sent Xu Chan to Kuaiji to visit the official Yu Xi.
Yu Xi replied: Wei Xuancheng and others in the Han Dynasty buried the destroyed god in the garden. Researchers from the Wei Dynasty said it should be buried in the middle of the two levels.
Moreover, the god's master was originally located in the Ancestral Temple. If it is now placed in another room for worship, it would be better to store it permanently.
In addition, these four monarchs do not conform to the etiquette system for adding honorary titles, which further proves that they should be destroyed rather than enshrined.
At that time, Jian Wen was appointed as Fujun, and Monk Shulang Liu Shao and others reported: The four ancestors lived together in Xiqiu, kept the god in the stone room, and offered sacrifices only when they were picked and included, just like the old etiquette of the previous dynasty.
At that time, the son of Fan Xuan's brother, who was a native of Chenliu, asked him about this aspect of etiquette. Fan Xuan replied: "The worshipers in Shun's temple were all common people. Later, it was revoked after a long time. It was not placed in the higher position of Shun, and it was not ranked in the order of Zhao and Mu."
Nowadays, the four monarchs are still from their origins, but they are not enshrined based on their merits.
If one follows Yu Shun's practice of burying the god in the garden, it would be like a place to bury his descendants; if one follows the Xia people's practice of burying the god, it is not suitable for the current situation of the ancestral temple.
A workaround should be considered, that is, to build a special palace. If the family ties are not exhausted, they can be placed in the upper position of Emperor Xuan during the Qiang Festival. If the family ties are exhausted, there is no reason to place them among the descendants of the lower rank.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
其后太常刘遐等同蔡谟议。
博士张凭议： 或疑陈于太祖者，皆其后之毁主，凭案古义无别前后之文也。
禹不先鲧，则迁主居太祖之上，亦何疑也。
于是京兆迁入西储，同谓之祧，如前三祖迁主之礼，故正室犹十一也。
穆帝崩而哀帝、海西并为兄弟，无所登除。
咸安之初，简文皇帝上继元皇，世秩登进，于是颍川、京兆二主复还昭穆之位。
至简文崩，颍川又迁。
孝武帝太元十二年五月壬戌，诏曰： 昔建太庙，每事从俭，太祖虚位，明堂未建。
郊祀国之大事，而稽古之制阙然，便可详议。
祠部郎中徐邈议： 圆丘郊祀，经典无二，宣皇帝尝辩斯义，而检以圣典。
爰及中兴，备加研极，以定南北二郊，诚非异学所可轻改也。
谓仍旧为安。
武皇帝建庙六世，祖三昭三穆。
宣皇帝创基之主，实惟太祖，亲则王考。
translation: 
Later, Taichang Liu Xia and others had the same opinion as Cai Mo.
Dr. Zhang Ping suggested: Some people suspect that those displayed in the Taizu Temple are all deities who were later revoked. I think there are no different records in ancient doctrines.
If Yu is not in the position of Gun, then why should there be any doubts about moving the God Lord to the position of Taizu?
Therefore, Jingzhao's shrine was moved to the Western Reserve, also called "祧", with the same etiquette as when the first three ancestors and gods were moved out, so there were still eleven in the main room.
After Emperor Mu died, Emperor Ai and Haixi were his brothers, so there was no moving in or out.
In the early years of Xian'an, Emperor Jianwen succeeded Emperor Yuan, and the lineage order advanced, so the two gods Yingchuan and Jingzhao returned to Zhaomu's position.
When Jianwen died, Yingchuan was moved out again.
In the fifth month of Renxu in the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu issued an edict: In the past, when building the Taizu Temple, all aspects were frugal. Taizu's throne was in vain and no Mingtang was built.
Rural sacrifices are a major national event, but there are many deficiencies in following the ancient system, which should be discussed in detail.
Xu Miao, a doctor in the temple department, proposed: There are no different records in the classics about Yuanqiu Suburban Sacrifice. Emperor Xuan once identified its meaning and used the holy scriptures to regulate it.
After the ZTE, the research was more complete and sufficient, and the two suburbs of the north and south were determined. It is indeed not something that other theories can easily change.
It is appropriate to follow the old system.
Emperor Wu established the ancestral temple for the sixth generation, and his ancestors were Sanzhao and Sanmu.
Emperor Xuan was the founder of the foundation, so he should actually be regarded as Taizu, and in terms of family ties, he was actually Wang Kao.


Chunk 48: 
original: 
四庙在上，未及迁世，故权虚东向之位也。
兄弟相及，义非二世。
故当今庙祀，世数未足，而欲太祖正位，则违事七之义矣。
又《礼》曰庶子王亦禘祖立庙，盖谓支胤援立，则亲近必复。
京兆府君于今六世，宜复立此室，则宣皇未在六世之上，须前世既迁，乃太祖位定耳。
京兆迁毁宜藏主于石室，虽禘祫犹弗及。
何者？
传称毁主升合乎太祖，升者自下之名，不谓可降尊就卑也。
太子太孙，阴室四主，储嗣之重，升祔皇祖，所配之庙，世远应迁，然后从食之孙，与之俱毁。
明堂方圆之制，纲领已举，不宜阙配帝之祀。
且王者以天下为家，未必一邦，故周平、光武无废于二京也。
translation: 
The four temples are in the upper position and have not yet caught up with the migration and inheritance, so they have the right to assume the position of Chaoshu.
The succession of thrones between brothers does not technically involve two generations.
Therefore, the number of generations of temple worshipers today is not enough. If you want Taizu to occupy the right position, you will violate the rule of serving seven generations.
In addition, the "Li" says that after a concubine becomes king, he must also sacrifice his ancestors and establish a temple. It says that after the descendants of the side branch inherit the line, those close to him must restore their status.
There have been six generations of Jingzhaofu Lords, so this divine position should be restored. Then Emperor Xuan has not exceeded the sixth generation, and the throne of Taizu cannot be determined until the previous generation has moved.
After the Jingzhao shrine is moved, it should be kept in the stone chamber, and it does not need to be involved even when performing chair sacrifices and interspersed sacrifices.
Why?
According to the literature, the moved god was promoted to be together with Taizu. Ascension means from bottom to top. It does not mean that the venerable can be lowered to the same status as the humble.
The princes and grandsons who died in infancy, the four masters of the underworld, because of their important status as crown princes, were attached to the throne of the imperial ancestor to be sacrificed. When the god of the temple to whom they were attached should move away due to generations of estrangement, these descendants of the sacrifice were removed together with the throne of the emperor.
The various systems of the Mingtang have summarized the key points of the program, and there should not be any gaps in the sacrificial rituals.
Moreover, the person who calls himself a king regards the world as his home and is not necessarily limited to one country. Therefore, King Ping of Zhou and Emperor Guangwu did not abolish the throne of the monarch in the Erjing period.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
明堂所配之神，积疑莫辩。
案《易》 殷荐上帝，以配祖考 ，祖考同配，则上帝亦为天，而严父之义显。
《周礼》旅上帝者，有故告天，与郊祀常礼同用四圭，故并言之。
若上帝是五帝，《经》文何不言祀天旅五帝，祀地旅四望乎？
侍中车胤议同。
又曰： 明堂之制，既其难详，且乐主于和，礼主于敬，故质文不同，音器亦殊。
既茅茨广夏，不一其度，何必守其形范，而不弘本从俗乎？
九服咸宁，河朔无尘，然后明堂辟雍可崇而修之。
时朝议多同，于是奉行，一无所改。
十六年，始改作太庙殿，正室十四间，东西储各一间，合十六间，栋高八丈四尺。
translation: 
In the Mingtang ritual system, I have always had doubts about the deity who is worthy of sharing, but I still haven’t figured it out.
Examine the Great Sacrifice to God in the Book of Changes, and you will be worthy of enjoying Zu Kao. If both Zu and Kao are worthy of sharing, then God is also Heaven, which makes the principle of respecting the father clear at a glance.
"The Rites of Zhou" says that when worshiping God in the countryside, if you have something to tell Heaven, you use four pieces of jade like the usual etiquette in suburban worship, so we talk about them together.
If God refers to the five emperors, why doesn't the Sutra say that the heavenly travelers are worshiped as sacrifices to the five emperors, and the earthly travelers are worshiped as sacrifices to the four directions?
Che Yin, the attendant, had the same opinion.
He also said: Since the Mingtang system is so difficult to understand, and the purpose of music is to make people harmonious, and the purpose of etiquette is to make people humble, the traditional and simplified ones are different, and the musical instruments and ritual vessels are also different.
Since there are thatched houses and wide and tall houses, and their specifications cannot be unified, why stick to the rules and regulations instead of promoting the essential spirit to adapt to modern people's sentiments?
There is peace everywhere, and there is no war in Heshuowen. At that time, we can continue to respect the etiquette of Mingtang and Yong.
At that time, most of the court officials agreed with this opinion, so they followed the original system without any changes.
In the sixteenth year, the main hall of the Imperial Ancestral Temple was rebuilt. There were fourteen main rooms, one each in the east and west, for a total of sixteen rooms. The building was eight feet four feet high.


Chunk 50: 
original: 
备法驾迁神主于行庙，征西至京兆四主及太子太孙各用其位之仪服。
四主不从帝者之仪，是与太康异也。
诸主既入庙，设脯醢之奠。
及新庙成，神主还室，又设脯醢之奠。
十九年二月，追尊简文母会稽太妃郑氏为简文皇帝宣太后，立庙太庙道西。
及孝武崩，京兆又迁，如穆帝之世四祧故事。
义熙九年四月，将殷祠，诏博议迁毁之礼。
大司马琅邪王德文议： 泰始之初，虚太祖之位，而缘情流远，上及征西，故世尽则宜毁，而宣帝正太祖之位。
又汉光武移十一帝主于洛邑，则毁主不设，理可推矣。
宜筑别室，以居四府君之主，永藏而弗祀也。
大司农徐广议： 四府君尝处庙堂之首，歆率土之祭，若埋之幽壤，于情理未必咸尽。
translation: 
Dharma chariots were prepared and the gods were moved to the temple. The four gods from Zhengxi to Jingzhao, as well as the prince and grandson, all wore ceremonial clothes corresponding to their deities.
The four gods do not use the same rituals as those with emperor titles, which is different from the Taikang years.
After each god entered the temple, they set up preserved meats and minced meat to offer sacrifices.
When the new temple was completed, the god returned to his room and set up preserved meat to offer sacrifices.
In February of the 19th year, Zheng, the concubine of Kuaiji, the mother of Jian Wen, proclaimed the empress dowager to Emperor Jian Wen and established her temple on the west side of the road to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
After Xiaowu's death, the god master of Jingzhao was moved out again, just like the precedent of Sizuo during Emperor Mu's time.
In April of the ninth year of Yixi, a large temple ceremony was about to take place, and the edict issued an extensive discussion on the etiquette of moving and removing the shrine.
The Great Sima Langye King Dewen proposed: In the early years of Taishi, the throne of Taizu was fictitiously established. However, tracing back to the long history of family ties, as far as Zhengxi, the throne should be removed when the generation is up, so Emperor Xuan officially established the throne of Taizu.
In addition, Han Guangwu moved the gods of eleven emperors to Luoyi, so it can be inferred that there was no system for removing the gods.
Another temple should be built to house the gods of the four princes and to be preserved permanently without the need for sacrifice.
Xu Guang, the chief minister, suggested: The four princes were once at the top of the temple and enjoyed the sacrifices from all over the world. If it is buried in the deep ground, it may not be completely appropriate in terms of reason.


Chunk 51: 
original: 
谓可迁藏西储，以为远祧，而禘飨永绝也。
太尉谘议参军袁豹议： 仍旧无革，殷祠犹及四府君，情理为允。
时刘裕作辅，意与大司马议同，须后殷祠行事改制。
会安帝崩，未及禘而天禄终焉。
武帝咸宁五年十一月己酉，弘训羊太后崩，宗庙废一时之祀，天地明堂去乐，且不上胙。
穆帝升平五年十月己卯，殷祀，以帝崩后不作乐。
孝武太元十一年九月，皇女亡，及应烝祠，中书侍郎范奏： 案《丧服传》有死宫中者三月不举祭，不别长幼之与贵贱也。
皇女虽在婴孩，臣窃以为疑。
于是尚书奏使三公行事。
武帝泰始七年四月，帝将亲祠，车驾夕牲，而仪注还不拜。
诏问其故，博士奏历代相承如此。
帝曰： 非致敬宗庙之礼也。
于是实拜而还，遂以为制，夕牲必躬临拜，而江左以来复止。
translation: 
It can be moved and kept in the Western Reserve as a distant memorial, but it will never be offered as a persimmon sacrifice again.
The Taiwei consulted Yuan Bao, who joined the army, and suggested that the old system should be used without changing it. The four princes should still be sacrificed during the big temple ceremony. From a reasonable point of view, it is more appropriate.
At that time, Liu Yu was assistant to the government, and his intention was the same as Da Sima's proposal. He would change the old system when the ceremony was held in the big temple in the future.
It happened that Emperor An passed away, and the sacrifice to Tianlu was terminated before the time came.
In the eleventh month of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's Xianning reign, Empress Dowager Hongxun Yang passed away. The ancestral temple stopped offering sacrifices at that time, and the Heaven and Earth Hall removed all music and no offerings.
In the tenth month of the fifth year of Emperor Mu's ascension, there was a big sacrifice, but no music was played because it was after the death of the emperor.
In September of the eleventh year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, the emperor's daughter died. When it was time to hold sacrifices at the Yan Temple, Zhongshu's minister Jie Xiangshang played: According to the "Mourning Clothes Biography", if anyone in the palace dies, no sacrifice ceremony can be held for three months, regardless of age or status.
Although the princess is a baby, I think it is worth considering.
So the minister asked him to send Sangong to preside over the sacrifice.
In April of the seventh year of the Yihupan, the emperor was about to go to the temple to offer sacrifices in person and inspect the sacrifices on the eve of the sacrifices. However, the ritual notes stipulated that worship was not necessary.
Xia Shao asked about the reason, and the doctor reported that this is how it has been passed down through the ages.
The emperor said: This is not a ritual to show respect to the ancestral temple.
So he came back after worshiping. From then on, it became a system. Anyone who inspected the animals on the eve of a sacrifice must pay homage in person. It was not abolished until after Shu Jin Dynasty.


Chunk 52: 
original: 
魏故事，天子为次殿于庙殿之北东，天子入自北门。
新礼，设次殿于南门中门外之右，天子入自南门。
挚虞以为： 次殿所以为解息之处，凡适尊以不显为恭，以由隐为顺，而设之于上位，入自南门，非谦厌之义。
宜定新礼，皆如旧说。
从之。
礼，大事则告祖祢，小事则特告祢，秦汉久废。
魏文帝黄初四年七月，将东巡，以大军当出，使太常以特牛告南郊。
及文帝崩，又使太尉告谥策于南郊。
自是迄晋相承，告郊之后仍以告庙，至江左其礼废。
至成帝咸和三年，苏峻覆乱京都，温峤等立行庙于白石，复行其典。
告先君及后曰： 逆臣苏峻，倾覆社稷，毁弃三正。污辱海内。
translation: 
According to the old practice of Wei, the emperor built a secondary hall in the northeast of the temple, and the emperor entered through the north gate.
The new etiquette is to set up a secondary hall on the right side outside the middle gate of the south gate, and the emperor enters through the south gate.
Zhiyu believes: The second hall is a place for resting. When going to the elders, it is respectful not to show oneself, and it is respectful to go through an inconspicuous place. Now it is located in the upper position and enters from the south gate. It is not a respectful attitude.
New etiquette should be formulated and all should be done according to the old sayings.
Heeded his advice.
As for etiquette, if there is a big event, you should ask Zumi, and if there is a small matter, just ask Zumi. It has been abandoned for a long time since the Qin and Han Dynasties.
In July of the fourth year of Emperor Huangchu of Wei Dynasty, he was about to patrol the east. Since the army was about to set off, he sent Taicong special cattle to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices.
When Emperor Wen died, he sent the Taiwei to the southern suburbs to report the situation of Mi Ce.
From the time of sending people to the capital of Jin Dynasty, the rituals were followed after the suburbs and temples. It was only after the Eastern Jin Dynasty that these rituals were abolished.
In the third year of its prosperity, Fuzi overthrew and brought chaos to the capital, forcing Ku and others to set up a temple and perform those rituals.
He reported to the late emperor and the empress: The rebellious minister Su Jun overthrew the country, destroyed the three righteousnesses, and insulted the whole world.


Chunk 53: 
original: 
臣侃、臣峤、臣亮等手刃戎首，龚行天罚。
惟中宗元皇帝、肃祖明皇帝、明穆皇后之灵，降鉴有罪，剿绝其命，翦此群凶，以安宗庙。
臣等虽陨首摧躯，犹生之年。
魏明帝太和三年，诏曰： 礼，王后无嗣，择建支子，以继大宗，则当纂正统而奉公义，何得复顾私亲哉！
汉宣继昭帝后，加悼考以皇号。
哀帝以外籓援立，而董宏等称引亡秦，惑误朝议，遂尊恭皇，立庙京师。
又宠籓妾，使比长信，僭差无礼，人神弗佑。
非罪师丹忠正之谏，用致丁傅焚如之祸。
自是之后，相踵行之。
其令公卿有司，深以前世为戒。后嗣万一有由诸侯入奉大统，则当明为人后之义。
translation: 
Chen Tao Kan, Chen Wen Dui, Chen Litai and others killed the enemy's leader with their own hands and respectfully carried out God's punishment.
I hope that the heroic spirits of Emperor Zhongzongyuan, Suzu Minghuangtong, and Queen Mingmu will clearly detect the guilty people, eradicate them, and eliminate these murderers to stabilize the ancestral temple.
Even if I lose my head and my body is broken, it will still be the same as when I was alive.
In the third year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, Xia Shao said: Li, the queen has no heirs and chooses to raise a son from a branch line to inherit the family. She should inherit the orthodoxy and pursue justice. How can she care about her family ties anymore!
After Han Xuan succeeded Emperor Zhao, he gave Mukao the imperial title.
Saitong was established as an external vassal, but Dong Hong and others cited the precedent of the death of Taiwan to mislead the courtiers, so they respected Emperor Jie and built a temple in the capital.
He also favored the concubine from the feudal town and gave her the same status as Kenzhi. It was against etiquette to overstep the rank and neither the people nor the gods would help him.
He expressed opposition and blame for Shi Dan Zhongzheng's opinions, which resulted in the Ding family and Fu family being punished by Wang Mang Fenru.
From now on, it will be implemented accordingly.
I specially order the ministers and relevant departments to take the events of the previous generation as a profound lesson. If the successors in the future want to inherit the throne from among the princes, they should explain the truth of being the heirs of their predecessors.


Chunk 54: 
original: 
敢为佞邪导谀君上，妄建非正之号，谓考为皇，称妣为后，则股肱大臣诛之无赦。
其书之金策，藏之宗庙。
是后高贵、常道援立，皆不外尊。
及愍帝建兴四年，司徒梁芬议追尊之礼，帝既不从，而左仆射索綝等亦称引魏制，以为不可，故追赠吴王为太保而已。
元帝太兴二年，有司言琅邪恭王宜称皇考。
贺循议云： 礼典之义，子不敢以己爵加其父号。
帝又从之。
translation: 
Anyone who dares to be sycophantic and eccentric, to seduce the emperor, and to adopt unreasonable titles, such as calling Kao the emperor and mother the queen, will be punished by the assistant ministers without mercy.
The special words are written on the gold policy and kept in the ancestral temple.
After that, the Noble and Normal Ways were established, and no outsiders were respected.
Four years after his arrival in Xingmu Yusu, Situ Chucha proposed the posthumous ceremony, but not only did the emperor refuse to obey, but Zuo Pu Shesuosui and others also praised Yin Yun's system and thought it was not acceptable, so they only posthumously presented the king of Wu as the Taibao.
In the second year of Wutong Youxing's reign, some ministers said that Prince Gong of Fallen Evil should be called Huang Kao.
He Xun suggested: Due to the etiquette principle, a son would not dare to add his title to his father as a title.
The emperor obeyed him again.


