Chunk 0: 
original: 
绛侯周勃者，沛人也。
其先卷人，徙沛。
勃以织薄曲为生，常为人吹箫给丧事，材官引彊。
高祖之为沛公初起，勃以中涓从攻胡陵，下方与。
方与反，与战，卻適。
攻丰。击秦军砀东。还军留及萧。
复攻砀，破之。下下邑，先登。
赐爵五大夫。
攻蒙、虞，取之。
击章邯车骑，殿。
定魏地。攻爰戚、东缗，以往至栗，取之。
攻齧桑，先登。
击秦军阿下，破之。
追至濮阳，下甄城。
攻都关、定陶，袭取宛朐，得单父令。
夜袭取临济，攻张，以前至卷，破之。
击李由军雍丘下。
攻开封，先至城下为多。
後章邯破杀项梁，沛公与项羽引兵东如砀。
自初起沛还至砀，一岁二月。
楚怀王封沛公号安武侯，为砀郡长。
沛公拜勃为虎贲令，以令从沛公定魏地。
攻东郡尉於城武，破之。
击王离军，破之。
攻长社，先登。
攻颍阳、缑氏，绝河津。
击赵贲军尸北。
南攻南阳守齮，破武关、峣关。
破秦军於蓝田，至咸阳，灭秦。
项羽至，以沛公为汉王。
汉王赐勃爵为威武侯。
从入汉中，拜为将军。
还定三秦，至秦，赐食邑怀德。
攻槐里、好畤，最。
击赵贲、内史保於咸阳，最。
北攻漆。
击章平、姚卬军。
西定汧。
还下郿、频阳。
围章邯废丘。
破西丞。
击盗巴军，破之。
攻上邽。
东守峣关。
转击项籍。
攻曲逆，最。
还守敖仓，追项籍。
translation: 
Jianghou Zhou Bo was a native of Peixian County.
His ancestors were from Juan County and later moved to Peixian County.
Zhou Bo made a living by weaving silkworm foil, and often played the flute and played dirges at other people's funerals. Later, he became a warrior who could draw a strong bow.
When Gaozu was first called Pei Gong and he just raised his army, Zhou Bo followed Gaozu as an attendant to attack Huling and attack Fangyu.
Fang Yu rebelled, and Zhou Bo fought with them and repelled the enemy.
Afterwards, they attacked Fengyi and attacked the Qin army east of Dang County. The army returned to Liu County and Xiao County.
Attacked Dangjun again, finally broke through and captured Xiayi. Zhou Bo was the first to scale the city wall.
Emperor Gaozu gave him the title of Fifth Doctor.
Later, they attacked the two cities of Meng and Yu and captured them all.
When attacking Zhang Han's chariot and cavalry troops, Zhou Bo made a low-level contribution.
After the Wei Dynasty was pacified, they attacked Yuanqi and Dongmin, all the way to Li County, and captured all these places.
When attacking Zhisang, Zhou Bo was the first to ascend the city.
Attacked the Qin army under Dong'a City and defeated them.
He pursued to Puyang and captured Zhencheng.
He attacked Duguan and Dingtao, attacked and captured Wanqu, and captured Shan's father's county magistrate.
They captured Linji with a night attack, attacked Shouzhang, and then moved forward to Juan County and captured it.
Attacked Qin general Li You's army at Yongqiu City.
When attacking Kaifeng, Zhou Bo arrived at the city first and made military exploits.
Later Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang's army and killed Xiang Liang. Peigong Liu Bang and Xiang Yu led their troops eastward back to Dang County.
From the time he started raising troops in Pei County to the time he returned to Dang County, it took a total of one year and two months.
King Huai of Chu gave Duke Pei the title of Marquis of Anwu and made him the governor of Dang County.
Peigong appointed Zhou Bo to follow Peiping in the position of Huben Ling to determine the territory of Wei.
In Chengwu, he attacked the army of Dongjun Commandery and defeated them.
Attacked Qin General Wang Li's army and defeated them.
Attacking Changshe, Zhou Bo was the first to ascend the city.
Attacked Yingyang and Fengshi and cut off the crossing of the Yellow River.
Attack Zhao Ben's army north of Xixiang.
Then he went south to attack Nanyang County and defeated Wuguan and Yaoguan.
Defeated the Qin army in Lantian, marched to Xianyang, and destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
After Xiang Yu arrived in Xianyang, he named Peigong King of Han.
The title given to Zhou Bo by the King of Han was Marquis of Weiwu.
Zhou Bo followed the King of Han into Hanzhong and was appointed general.
The Han army returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. After arriving in Qin, the King of Han gave Huaide to Zhou Bo as a food town.
He attacked Huaili and Haoji and achieved great success.
In Xianyang, he attacked Zhao Bi and Nei Shibao and made great achievements.
Attack Qixian County to the north.
Attack the armies of Zhang Ping and Yao Xian.
Go west to pacify Qian County.
He returned to the army and captured Mei County and Pinyang.
Zhang Han's army was surrounded in Feiqiu.
Defeated the army of the Xixian County Magistrate.
The army that attacked Tieba defeated him.
Attack Shanggui.
In the east. Guard the Pass in the east.
Then he turned to attack Xiang Yu.
Attack Quni and achieve superior merit.
Return to guard Aocang and pursue Xiang Yu.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
籍已死，因东定楚地泗、东海郡，凡得二十二县。
还守雒阳、栎阳，赐与颍侯共食锺离。
以将军从高帝反者燕王臧荼，破之易下。
所将卒当驰道为多。
赐爵列侯，剖符世世勿绝。
食绛八千一百八十户，号绛侯。
以将军从高帝击反韩王信於代，降下霍人。
以前至武泉，击胡骑，破之武泉北。
转攻韩信军铜鞮，破之。
还，降太原六城。
击韩信胡骑晋阳下，破之，下晋阳。
後击韩信军於硰石，破之，追北八十里。
还攻楼烦三城，因击胡骑平城下，所将卒当驰道为多。
勃迁为太尉。
击陈豨，屠马邑。
所将卒斩豨将军乘马絺。
击韩信、陈豨、赵利军於楼烦，破之。得豨将宋最、雁门守。
因转攻得云中守、丞相箕肆、将勋。
定雁门郡十七县，云中郡十二县。
因复击豨灵丘，破之，斩豨，得豨丞相程纵、将军陈武、都尉高肆。
定代郡九县。
燕王卢绾反，勃以相国代樊哙将，击下蓟，得绾大将抵、丞相偃、守陉、太尉弱、御史大夫施，屠浑都。
破绾军上兰，复击破绾军沮阳。
追至长城，定上谷十二县，右北平十六县，辽西、辽东二十九县，渔阳二十二县。
最从高帝得相国一人，丞相二人，将军、二千石各三人；别破军二，下城三，定郡五，县七十九，得丞相、大将各一人。
勃为人木彊敦厚，高帝以为可属大事。
勃不好文学，每召诸生说士，东乡坐而责之： 趣为我语。
其椎少文如此。
勃既定燕而归，高祖已崩矣，以列侯事孝惠帝。
孝惠帝六年，置太尉官，以勃为太尉。
translation: 
After Xiang Yu's death, he took the opportunity to move east to pacify Chu Sishui and Donghai counties, occupying a total of 22 counties.
He then returned to guard Luoyang and Yueyang. The king of Han gave Zhongli to Zhou Bo and Guan Ying as a common food town for them.
Zhou Bo followed Gaozu as a general to conquer Zang Tu, King of Yan, who rebelled against the Han Dynasty, and defeated them at the gate of Yi County.
The soldiers led by Zhou Bo resisted the enemy on the carriage road and made many military exploits.
Zhou Bo was granted the title of Marquis, and Emperor Gaozu split the talisman to ensure that Zhou Bo's title would be passed down from generation to generation and would never be extinguished.
8,180 households in Jiang County were given as food towns, known as Jianghou.
Zhou Bo followed Gaozu as a general to conquer Han Wangxin who rebelled against the Han Dynasty in Dai, and surrendered Huoren County.
Then move forward to Wuquan, attack the Hu cavalry, and defeat them north of Wuquan.
Then he moved to Tongtian to attack Han Wangxin's army and defeated them.
He returned to the army and surrendered six cities in Taiyuan County.
At the foot of Jinyang City, the Hu cavalry attacked King Xin of Han, defeated them, and captured Jinyang.
Then he attacked King Xin of Han's army at Rangshi, defeated them, and chased the defeated soldiers for eighty miles.
Returning to attack the three cities in Loufan, they took advantage of the situation to attack the Hu cavalry under Pingcheng. The soldiers led by Zhou Bo resisted the enemy troops on the carriage road and gained the most military exploits.
Zhou Bo was promoted to Taiwei.
Zhou Bo attacked the rebel general Chen Xi and massacred the city in Mayi County.
The soldiers he led beheaded Chen Xi's general on horseback.
Attacked Han Wangxin, Chen Xi, and Zhao Li's troops in Loufan, defeated them, and captured Chen Xi's general Song Zui and Yanmen County Guards.
Taking advantage of the situation, he turned to attack Yunzhong County and captured the county governor, Prime Minister Ji Si and General Xun.
The seventeen counties of Yanmen County and the twelve counties of Yunzhong County were pacified.
Taking advantage of the situation, he attacked Chen Xi in Lingqiu, defeated his army, beheaded Chen Xi, and captured Chen Xi's prime minister Cheng Zong, general Chen Wu, and captain Gao Si.
Pingding Daijun nine counties.
King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and Zhou Bo led the troops on Fan Kuai's behalf as Prime Minister, captured Jixian, captured Lu Wan's general Da, Prime Minister Yan, County Shou Xing, Tai Wei Ruo, and Yushi doctor Shi, etc., and massacred Hundu City.
Defeated Lu Wan's rebels in Shanglan, and defeated Lu Wan's rebels in Juyang.
They pursued to the Great Wall and pacified twelve counties in Shanggu County, sixteen counties in Youbeiping County, twenty-nine counties in western and eastern Liaoning, and twenty-two counties in Yuyang County.
He followed Gaozu on the expedition and captured one prime minister and two prime ministers, three officials each with an annual salary of two thousand dan. He also defeated two armies, captured three cities, pacified five counties and seventy-nine counties, and captured one prime minister and one general.
Zhou Bo was a simple, strong, honest and loyal man. Emperor Gaozu believed that he could entrust him with important matters.
Zhou Bo didn't like literature and learning. Whenever he summoned Confucian scholars and lobbyists, he would sit facing east and ask them: Tell me quickly!
His simple young literary talent is like this.
After Zhou Bo pacified Yan, he returned to the dynasty. Gaozu had passed away, and he served Emperor Hui as a prince.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign, the official position of Taiwei was established and Zhou Bo was appointed as Taiwei.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
十岁，高后崩。
吕禄以赵王为汉上将军，吕产以吕王为汉相国，秉汉权，欲危刘氏。
勃为太尉，不得入军门。陈平为丞相，不得任事。
於是勃与平谋，卒诛诸吕而立孝文皇帝。
其语在吕后、孝文事中。
文帝既立，以勃为右丞相，赐金五千斤，食邑万户。
居月馀，人或说勃曰： 君既诛诸吕，立代王，威震天下，而君受厚赏，处尊位，以宠，久之即祸及身矣。 勃惧，亦自危，乃谢请归相印。
上许之。
岁馀，丞相平卒，上复以勃为丞相。
十馀月，上曰： 前日吾诏列侯就国，或未能行，丞相吾所重，其率先之。
乃免相就国。
岁馀，每河东守尉行县至绛，绛侯勃自畏恐诛，常被甲，令家人持兵以见之。
其後人有上书告勃欲反，下廷尉。廷尉下其事长安，逮捕勃治之。
勃恐，不知置辞。
吏稍侵辱之。
勃以千金与狱吏，狱吏乃书牍背示之，曰 以公主为证 。
公主者，孝文帝女也，勃太子胜之尚之，故狱吏教引为证。
勃之益封受赐，尽以予薄昭。
及系急，薄昭为言薄太后，太后亦以为无反事。
文帝朝，太后以冒絮提文帝，曰： 绛侯绾皇帝玺，将兵於北军，不以此时反，今居一小县，顾欲反邪！
文帝既见绛侯狱辞，乃谢曰： 吏方验而出之。
於是使使持节赦绛侯，复爵邑。
绛侯既出，曰： 吾尝将百万军，然安知狱吏之贵乎！
绛侯复就国。
孝文帝十一年卒，谥为武侯。
子胜之代侯。
六岁，尚公主，不相中，坐杀人，国除。
绝一岁，文帝乃择绛侯勃子贤者河内守亚夫，封为条侯，续绛侯後。
条侯亚夫自未侯为河内守时，许负相之，曰： 君後三岁而侯。侯八岁为将相，持国秉，贵重矣，於人臣无两。
translation: 
Ten years later, Empress Lu died.
Lu Lu served as the general of the Han Dynasty as King Zhao, and Lu Chan served as the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty as King Lu. They controlled the political power of the Han Dynasty and wanted to overthrow the Liu family.
Zhou Bo, as a lieutenant, could not enter the military camp; Chen Ping, as a prime minister, could not handle government affairs.
So Zhou Bo and Chen Ping planned to finally annihilate the Lu family and establish Emperor Xiaowen.
The intercession on this matter is recorded in "The Chronicles of Empress Dowager Lu" and "The Chronicles of Xiaowen".
After Emperor Wen came to the throne, he appointed Zhou Bo as the right prime minister, and gave him five thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households with food. More than a month later, someone persuaded Zhou Bo: You have killed the Lu family and established King Dai as the emperor, which is powerful in the world.
You receive generous rewards and are in a distinguished position. If you are favored like this, disaster will befall you over time. Zhou Bo was afraid and felt that he was in danger, so he resigned and asked for the return of the seal.
The emperor agreed to his request.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Chen Ping passed away. The emperor appointed Zhou Bo as prime minister.
After more than ten months, the emperor said: A few days ago, I ordered all the princes to go to their fiefdoms. Some of them have not left yet. Prime Minister, you are a person I value very much. I hope you will take the lead and go first!
So he was relieved of his position as prime minister and returned to his fiefdom.
After returning to the fiefdom for more than a year, whenever the governor and lieutenants of Hedong visited Dajiang County in various counties, Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, was afraid of being killed. He often wore armor and ordered his family members to hold weapons to meet the governor and lieutenants.
Later, someone wrote a letter to accuse Zhou Bo of rebelling. The emperor handed over the matter to Tingwei, the chief officer in charge of the prison. Tingwei in turn handed the matter over to Chang'an. The prison officer in Chang'an arrested Zhou Bo for interrogation.
Zhou Bo was scared and didn't know how to answer.
The jailers gradually bullied and humiliated him.
Zhou Bo gave a thousand pieces of gold to the jailer, and the jailer wrote on the back of the wooden slip to remind him: Let the princess bear witness for you.
The princess was the daughter of Emperor Wen, and Zhou Bo's eldest son Shengzhi married her, so the jailer taught Zhou Bo to let her come out to testify.
Zhou Bo gave all the rewards he received to Empress Dowager Bo's brother Bo Zhao.
When the case came to a critical juncture, Bo Zhao interceded with Empress Dowager Bo on behalf of Zhou Bo, and the Empress Dowager also believed that there would be no rebellion.
Emperor Wen met with the Empress Dowager. The Empress Dowager grabbed the scarf and threw it at Emperor Wen, saying: It turns out that Jianghou was carrying the emperor's seal and was leading the troops in the Northern Army. He didn't rebel at that time. Now he lives in a small county. Will he rebel instead?
Emperor Wen had already seen Jianghou's confession, so he apologized to the Queen Mother and said: The jailer just found out clearly and wanted to let him out.
So he sent an envoy with a talisman to pardon Jianghou and restore his title and food.
After Jianghou was released from prison, he said: I am leading an army of millions, but how do I know the dignity of the jailer?
Jianghou returned to his fiefdom.
He died in the eleventh year of Emperor Wen's reign, and his posthumous title was Marquis Wu.
His son Katsuyuki inherited the title.
Six years later, the princess he married was at odds with him, and because he committed murder, the fiefdom was abolished.
The title was suspended for a year before Emperor Wen selected Zhou Yafu, the virtuous governor of Hanoi County, from the sons of Jianghou Zhou Bo, and named him Tiaohou to succeed Jianghou's title.
When Zhou Yafu, the Marquis of Tiao, was still serving as the governor of Hanoi County without the title of Marquis, Xu Negation looked at his prime minister and said: You will be granted the title of Marquis in three years. After eight years of being granted the title of Marquis, you will be appointed as general and prime minister. You will be in charge of the power of the country.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其後九岁而君饿死。
亚夫笑曰： 臣之兄已代父侯矣，有如卒，子当代，亚夫何说侯乎？
然既已贵如负言，又何说饿死？
指示我。
许负指其口曰： 有从理入口，此饿死法也。
居三岁，其兄绛侯胜之有罪，孝文帝择绛侯子贤者，皆推亚夫，乃封亚夫为条侯，续绛侯後。
文帝之後六年，匈奴大入边。
乃以宗正刘礼为将军，军霸上；祝兹侯徐厉为将军，军棘门；以河内守亚夫为将军，军细柳：以备胡。
上自劳军。
至霸上及棘门军，直驰入，将以下骑送迎。
已而之细柳军，军士吏被甲，锐兵刃，彀弓弩，持满。
天子先驱至，不得入。
先驱曰： 天子且至！
军门都尉曰： 将军令曰 军中闻将军令，不闻天子之诏 。
居无何，上至，又不得入。
於是上乃使使持节诏将军： 吾欲入劳军。
亚夫乃传言开壁门。
壁门士吏谓从属车骑曰： 将军约，军中不得驱驰。
於是天子乃按辔徐行。
至营，将军亚夫持兵揖曰： 介胄之士不拜，请以军礼见。
天子为动，改容式车。
使人称谢： 皇帝敬劳将军。
成礼而去。
既出军门，群臣皆惊。
文帝曰： 嗟乎，此真将军矣！
曩者霸上、棘门军，若兒戏耳，其将固可袭而虏也。
至於亚夫，可得而犯邪！
称善者久之。
月馀，三军皆罢。
乃拜亚夫为中尉。
孝文且崩时，诫太子曰： 即有缓急，周亚夫真可任将兵。
文帝崩，拜亚夫为车骑将军。
孝景三年，吴楚反。
translation: 
In nine years after this, you will starve to death.
Zhou Yafu said with a smile: My brother has inherited the title of marquis from his father. If he dies, his son should succeed him. How can I, Zhou Yafu, be granted the title of marquis?
Since I am as rich as you said, how can I say that I will starve to death?
Please give me your advice.
Xu Negation pointed at Zhou Yafu's mouth and said: "You have vertical lines on your face. This is the face of starving to death."
Three years later, his brother Jianghou Zhou Shengzhi was convicted. Emperor Wen selected a capable person from Zhou Bo's sons. Everyone recommended Yafu, so he named Yafu Tiaohou and succeeded Jianghou's title.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wen's reign, the Xiongnu invaded the border.
Emperor Wen then appointed Zongzheng Liu Li as a general to garrison Ba Shang; Zhu Zihou Li as a general to garrison at Jimen; and appointed Zhou Yafu, governor of Hanoi County, as a general to garrison at Xiliu in order to guard against the Xiongnu.
The emperor personally went to Wei Lao's army.
When they arrived at the barracks of Bashang and Thorny Gate, they entered at a gallop, and everyone from the general to the subordinate officers and soldiers rode to greet them.
After arriving at the Xiliu Military Camp, the officers and soldiers were all wearing armor, swords out of armor, bows with bows drawn, and bowstrings fully drawn.
The emperor's leader came to the military camp and could not enter.
The foreword says: The Emperor is coming!
The captain of the military gate said: Our general ordered that in the army we can only obey the general's orders and not the emperor's edicts.
Soon after, the emperor arrived, but he could not enter.
So the emperor sent an envoy holding a talisman to issue an edict to the general: I want to go in to comfort the army.
Yafu then sent word to open the gate of the military camp.
The non-commissioned officer guarding the camp gate said to the emperor's chariot and horse entourage: The general has regulations that horses are not allowed to gallop in the military camp.
So the emperor tightened the reins and marched slowly.
When he arrived at the camp, General Zhou Yafu saluted with his weapon in hand and said: "Soldiers wearing armor cannot kneel and worship. Please allow me to see the emperor as a military salute."
The emperor was moved by him, and immediately became solemn, leaning on the crossbar of the cart to greet the officers and soldiers.
He sent someone to express his gratitude to Zhou Yafu and said: "The emperor is here to express his condolences to the general."
After completing the military etiquette, he left.
As soon as they came out of the camp, all the officials looked surprised.
Emperor Wen said: Ah, this is the real general!
What I saw in the Bashang and Thorny Gate military camps was like child's play. Their generals might have been attacked and captured.
As for Yafu, how could he possibly violate him?
Praise him for a long time.
After more than a month, all three armies were withdrawn.
Emperor Wen granted Zhou Yafu the official position of lieutenant.
When Emperor Wen was about to die, he warned the prince: If a critical situation occurs, Zhou Yafu will really take on the important responsibility of leading the army.
After Emperor Wen died, Emperor Jing appointed Zhou Yafu as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Wu, Chu and other places rebelled.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
亚夫以中尉为太尉，东击吴楚。
因自请上曰： 楚兵剽轻，难与争锋。
原以梁委之，绝其粮道，乃可制。
上许之。
太尉既会兵荥阳，吴方攻梁，梁急，请救。
太尉引兵东北走昌邑，深壁而守。
梁日使使请太尉，太尉守便宜，不肯往。
梁上书言景帝，景帝使使诏救梁。
太尉不奉诏，坚壁不出，而使轻骑兵弓高侯等绝吴楚兵後食道。
吴兵乏粮，饥，数欲挑战，终不出。
夜，军中惊，内相攻击扰乱，至於太尉帐下。
太尉终卧不起。
顷之，复定。
後吴奔壁东南陬，太尉使备西北。
已而其精兵果奔西北，不得入。
吴兵既饿，乃引而去。
太尉出精兵追击，大破之。
吴王濞弃其军，而与壮士数千人亡走，保於江南丹徒。
汉兵因乘胜，遂尽虏之，降其兵，购吴王千金。
月馀，越人斩吴王头以告。
凡相攻守三月，而吴楚破平。
於是诸将乃以太尉计谋为是。
由此梁孝王与太尉有卻。
归，复置太尉官。五岁，迁为丞相，景帝甚重之。
景帝废栗太子，丞相固争之，不得。
景帝由此疏之。
而梁孝王每朝，常与太后言条侯之短。
窦太后曰： 皇后兄王信可侯也。
景帝让曰： 始南皮、章武侯先帝不侯，及臣即位乃侯之。
信未得封也。
窦太后曰： 人主各以时行耳。
translation: 
Zhou Yafu was promoted from lieutenant to Taiwei and led troops to attack the Wu and Chu rebels.
So Zhou Yafu personally asked the emperor for instructions and said: The Chu soldiers are brave and agile, and it will be difficult for us to win against them.
I hope to give up Liang Guo first and let them attack. We will cut off their food routes so that we can subdue them.
Emperor Jing agreed with this opinion.
After Taiwei Zhou Yafu gathered all the armies to Xingyang, the rebels of Wu State were attacking Liang State. Liang State was in a critical situation and asked for help.
But the Taiwei led his troops to the northeast and ran to Changyi. They could not defend themselves in deep ditches and high fortresses.
Liang Guo sent envoys to ask for help from the Taiwei every day, but the Taiwei believed that it would be beneficial to hold on and refused to rescue him.
Liang Guo sent a letter to report to Emperor Jing, who immediately sent an envoy to order the Taiwei to rescue Liang.
The Taiwei did not obey the emperor's order and held the fort without sending troops. Instead, he sent light cavalry led by Gong Gaohou and others to cut off the food routes to the rear of the Wu and Chu rebels.
The Wu army lacked food and the soldiers were hungry. They challenged them many times, but the Han army never came out.
At night, the Han army was frightened in the camp. The soldiers attacked and disturbed each other, and even caused trouble in the Taiwei's tent.
But the Taiwei never lay still.
Soon, stability was restored.
Later, the Wu army rushed towards the southeast corner of the Han army camp. The Taiwei asked people to pay attention to the northwest.
Then the elite soldiers of Wu State indeed rushed to the northwest, but they could not invade.
Wu soldiers were already hungry, so they retreated.
The Taiwei sent elite soldiers to pursue and defeated the Wu army.
Wu Wangbi abandoned his army and fled with thousands of strong soldiers to Dantu in the south of the Yangtze River to protect himself.
The Han soldiers took advantage of the victory and pursued them, completely captured the rebels, made them surrender, and offered a reward of a thousand gold for the king of Wu's head.
After more than a month, some people from Yue beheaded King Wu and reported it.
The two sides only had three months to attack and defend, and the Wu and Chu rebellions were defeated and put down.
Then the generals realized that the Taiwei's strategy was correct.
But because of this counterinsurgency. However, King Xiao of Liang had a grudge against the Taiwei.
After Zhou Yafu returned to the court, the imperial court re-established Taiwei officials, Zhou Yafu was promoted to prime minister, and Emperor Jing valued him very much.
Later, Emperor Jing deposed Prince Li. Prime Minister Zhou Yafu tried his best to argue but failed to dissuade him.
Emperor Jing distanced himself from him.
Every time King Xiao of Liang came to Beijing for an audience, he often told the Queen Mother about Zhou Yafu's shortcomings.
One day, Queen Mother Dou said: The queen's brother Wang Xin can be made a marquis.
Emperor Jing declined and said: At first, the late Emperor Nanpihou and Zhangwuhou did not make them marquises. They waited until I came to the throne to make them marquises.
It is not the time to make Wang Xin a marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou said: The monarchs all act according to the situation at that time.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
自窦长君在时，竟不得侯，死後乃其子彭祖顾得侯。吾甚恨之。帝趣侯信也！
景帝曰： 请得与丞相议之。
丞相议之，亚夫曰： 高皇帝约 非刘氏不得王，非有功不得侯。不如约，天下共击之 。
今信虽皇后兄，无功，侯之，非约也。
景帝默然而止。
其後匈奴王徐卢等五人降，景帝欲侯之以劝後。
丞相亚夫曰： 彼背其主降陛下，陛下侯之，则何以责人臣不守节者乎？
景帝曰： 丞相议不可用。
乃悉封徐卢等为列侯。
亚夫因谢病。
景帝中三年，以病免相。
顷之，景帝居禁中，召条侯，赐食。
独置大胾，无切肉，又不置櫡。
条侯心不平，顾谓尚席取櫡。
景帝视而笑曰： 此不足君所乎？
条侯免冠谢。
上起，条侯因趋出。
景帝以目送之，曰： 此怏怏者非少主臣也！
居无何，条侯子为父买工官尚方甲楯五百被可以葬者。
取庸苦之，不予钱。
庸知其盗买县官器，怒而上变告子，事连汙条侯。
书既闻上，上下吏。
吏簿责条侯，条侯不对。
景帝骂之曰： 吾不用也。
召诣廷尉。
廷尉责曰： 君侯欲反邪？
亚夫曰： 臣所买器，乃葬器也，何谓反邪？
吏曰： 君侯纵不反地上，即欲反地下耳。
吏侵之益急。
初，吏捕条侯，条侯欲自杀，夫人止之，以故不得死，遂入廷尉。
因不食五日，呕血而死。
国除。
translation: 
When my brother Dou Changjun was alive, he could not be granted the title of marquis. After his death, his son Peng Zu was granted the title of marquis instead. I regret this very much. Your Majesty, please make Wang Xin a marquis as soon as possible!
Emperor Jing said: This matter needs to be discussed with the Prime Minister.
Emperor Jing discussed with the prime minister, and Zhou Yafu said: Emperor Gao had stipulated that people who were not from the Liu family could not be crowned kings, and people who had not made meritorious deeds could not be crowned marquis. Anyone who did not abide by this rule could be attacked by everyone in the world.
Although Wang Xin is the elder brother of the queen, he has no meritorious service. Making him a marquis is against the Emperor Gaozu's protocol.
Emperor Jing was speechless after hearing this and had to give up.
Later, the Xiongnu king Wei Xulu and five others surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Jing wanted to make them marquis to encourage those who came after them.
Prime Minister Zhou Yafu said: A few of them betrayed their monarch and surrendered to Your Majesty. If Your Majesty makes them marquis, how can you blame the unruly ministers?
Emperor Jing said: The Prime Minister's opinion cannot be adopted.
So Wei Xulu and others were all made marquises.
Zhou Yafu therefore claimed to be ill and retired to his home.
In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Zhou Yafu was dismissed as prime minister due to illness.
Soon, Emperor Jing summoned Tiaohou in the palace and rewarded him with food and wine.
There was only a large piece of meat on the table, no chopped meat, and no chopsticks.
Tiao Hou was dissatisfied, turned around and asked the official in charge of the banquet to bring chopsticks.
Emperor Jing smiled when he saw it and said, "Can't these meet your needs?"
Tiaohou took off his hat to apologize.
The emperor stood up, and Tiao Hou took the opportunity to retreat quickly.
Emperor Jing watched him go out. Said: People like this who show dissatisfaction when encountering things cannot be the servants of the young master!
Soon after, Tiaohou's son bought five hundred pieces of armor and shields for his father from a worker who specialized in making household supplies.
The moving workers were very tired, but they were not paid.
When the employees found out that he secretly bought the utensils for the emperor, they became angry and sued Zhou Yafu's son to rebel. Naturally, the matter involved Marquis Tiao.
The employee's petition was submitted to Emperor Jing, who handed it over to the officials for investigation.
The officials questioned Tiaohou one by one according to the contents of the document, but Tiaohou refused to answer.
Emperor Jing scolded him and said, "I won't use you anymore."
And ordered Zhou Yafu to be handed over to Tingwei.
Tingwei asked: "Do you want to rebel?"
Zhou Yafu said: The utensils I bought are all for burial. How can I say that I want to rebel?
The jailer said: Even if you don't rebel above ground, you should go underground to rebel!
The jailer's persecution became more and more intense.
At first, when the jailer arrested Tiao Hou, Tiao Hou wanted to commit suicide, but his wife stopped him. Therefore, he did not die and went to Tingwei's prison.
Zhou Yafu didn't eat for five days, vomited blood and died.
His fiefdom was removed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
绝一岁，景帝乃更封绛侯勃他子坚为平曲侯，续绛侯後。
十九年卒，谥为共侯。
子建德代侯，十三年，为太子太傅。
坐酎金不善，元鼎五年，有罪，国除。
条侯果饿死。
死後，景帝乃封王信为盖侯。
太史公曰：绛侯周勃始为布衣时，鄙朴人也，才能不过凡庸。
及从高祖定天下，在将相位，诸吕欲作乱，勃匡国家难，复之乎正。
虽伊尹、周公，何以加哉！
亚夫之用兵，持威重，执坚刃，穰苴曷有加焉！
足己而不学，守节不逊，终以穷困。悲夫！
translation: 
Zhou Yafu's title was suspended for a year, so Emperor Jing changed the title of Zhou Jian, another son of Jianghou Zhou Bo, to Pingquhou, and succeeded Jianghou's title.
Zhou Jian died after reigning for 19 years, and his posthumous title was Gonghou.
His son Jiande succeeded him as marquis. Thirteen years later, Zhou Jiande was appointed as the prince's tutor.
Due to the poor quality of the gold offered as an acolyte, he was found guilty in the fifth year of Yuanding and his fiefdom was abolished.
Tiao Hou Zhou Yafu really starved to death.
After his death, Emperor Jing granted Wang Xin the title of Gaihou.
Tai Shigong said: When Jiang Hou Zhou Bo was a commoner, he was a rough and simple man, and his talents were no more than mediocre.
When he followed Gao Zu to bring peace to the world, he took up the position of general. The Lu family wanted to rebel and cause rebellion. Zhou Bo saved the country from crisis and restored the court to normal.
How can even wise men like Yi Yin and Duke Zhou surpass him?
Zhou Yafu always maintained dignity and perseverance in his military use. How could a famous general like Sima Ranju surpass him?
It's a pity that he was complacent but not open-minded to learn. He was able to observe moral integrity but did not know how to be respectful. In the end, he ended up in embarrassment. How sad!


