Chunk 0: 
original: 
古之儒者，博学乎《六艺》之文。
《六艺》者，王教之典籍，先圣所以明天道，正人伦，致至治之成法也。
周道既衰，坏于幽、厉，礼乐征伐自诸侯出，陵夷二百余年而孔子兴，衷圣德遭季世，知言之不用而道不行，乃叹曰： 凤鸟不至，河不出图，吾已矣夫！
文王既没，文不在兹乎？
于是应聘诸侯，以答礼行谊。
西入周，南至楚，畏匡厄陈，奸七十余君。
适齐闻《韶》，三月不知肉味；自卫反鲁，然后乐正，《雅》、《颂》各得其所。
究观古今篇籍，乃称曰： 大哉，尧之为君也！
唯天为大，唯尧则之。
巍巍乎其有成功也，焕乎其有文章！ 又曰： 周监于二代，郁郁乎文哉！吾从周。 于是叙《书》则断《尧典》，称乐则法《韶舞》，论《诗》则首《周南》。
缀周之礼，因鲁《春秋》，举十二公行事，绳之以文、武之道，成一王法，至获麟而止。
盖晚而好《易》，读之韦编三绝，而为之传。
皆因近圣之事，以立先王之教，故曰： 述而不作，信而好古 ； 下学而上达，知我者其天乎！
translation: 
Ancient Confucians studied extensively the articles in the "Six Arts".
"Six Arts" is a classic of the Wang Sect. It was used by the sages to clarify the Tao, correct human relations, and achieve great governance for the world.
Zhou Dao was in decline, bad at the time of Youli, and the conquests of ritual and music came from the princes. Confucius rose up after the decline for more than two hundred years. Because of his saintly virtue, he encountered the end of time, wise words were not used, and the road was impassable, so he sighed: The phoenix and the bird will not come, and the river will not flow out of the map. Let me forget it!
King Wen is dead, doesn't this matter about the article?
So he applied for a job among the princes to pay courtesy and do justice.
He entered the Zhou Dynasty in the west and Chu in the south. He was frightened by Kuang and was short of food at Chen. He went to pay homage to more than seventy kings.
When we all heard the music of "Shao", we didn't know the taste of meat in March. After returning from Wei to Lu, the music was revised, and "Ya" and "Song" each found their place.
After exploring ancient and modern books, he praised: Yao was so great as a monarch!
Only Heaven is the greatest, and Yao imitated it.
How high his achievements are, and how beautiful his rituals and music are! He also said: Zhou pursues the second generation and his articles are prosperous. I agree with Zhou. Therefore, the entire review of "Books" begins with "Yao Dian", "Shao Wu" is used as the method for describing music, and "Zhou Nan" is used as the starting point for discussing "Poetry".
Connected with the Zhou rites and following Lu's "Spring and Autumn", the actions of the twelve princes were listed, using the civil and military methods as the standard, and became a unified king's law until Huolin.
In his later years, he liked "Yi". He read "Yi" so many times that the belt connecting the bamboo slips was broken several times, so he wrote a biography for it.
They all use the events of modern saint kings to establish the teachings of the previous kings. Therefore, it is said: inheritance without innovation, integrity but love of the past; study personnel at the bottom, and reach destiny at the top. It is probably God who knows me!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
仲尼既没，七十子之徒散游诸侯，大者为卿相师傅，小者友教士大夫，或隐而不见。
故子张居陈，澹台子羽居楚，子夏居西河，子贡终于齐。
如田子方、段干木、吴起、禽滑氂之属，皆受业于子夏之伦，为王者师。
是时，独魏文侯好学。
天下并争于战国，儒术既黜焉，然齐鲁之间学者犹弗废，至于威、宣之际，孟子、孙卿之列咸遵夫子之业而润色之，以学显于当世。
及至秦始皇兼天下，燔《诗》、《书》，杀术士，六学从此缺矣。
陈涉之王也，鲁诸儒持孔氏礼器往归之，于是孔甲为涉博士，卒与俱死。
陈涉起匹夫，驱適戍以立号，不满岁而灭亡，其事至微浅，然而搢绅先生负礼器往委质为臣者何也？
以秦禁其业，积怨而发愤于陈王也。
及高皇帝诛项籍，引兵围鲁，鲁中诸儒尚讲诵习礼，弦歌之音不绝，岂非圣人遗化好学之国哉？
于是诸儒始得修其经学，讲习大射乡饮之礼。
叔孙通作汉礼仪，因为奉常，诸弟子共定者，咸为选首，然后喟然兴于学。
然尚有干戈，平定四海，亦未皇庠序之事也。
孝惠、高后时，公卿皆武力功臣。
孝文时颇登用，然孝文本好刑名之言。
及至孝景，不任儒，窦太后又好黄、老术，故诸博士具官待问，未有进者。
汉兴，言《易》自淄川田生；言《书》自济南伏生；言《诗》，于鲁则申培公，于齐则辕固生，燕则韩太傅；言《礼》，则鲁高堂生；言《春秋》，于齐则胡毋生，于赵则董仲舒。
及窦太后崩，武安君田蚡为丞相，黜黄老、刑名百家之言，延文学儒者以百数，而公孙弘以治《春秋》为丞相，封侯，天下学士靡然乡风矣。
弘为学官，悼道之郁滞，乃请曰： 丞相、御史言：制曰 盖闻导民以礼，风之以乐。
translation: 
After the death of Confucius, the seventy disciples scattered among the princes. Those with higher positions became masters of ministers and ministers, while those with lower positions became mentors and friends of scholar-bureaucrats. Some of them retired from the world and became invisible.
Therefore, it is urgent to go up quickly. Tantai Ziyu is in Chu, Wang Xia is in Luohe, and Zigong died in Qi.
For example, Tian Zifang, Duan Qianmu, Wu Qi, Qin Hua Ya, etc. were all trained by Zixia's generation and became the king's teachers.
At this time, only Wei Wenhou was eager to learn.
During the Warring States Period, the world was in strife and Confucianism was denounced. However, scholars in the Qilu area did not abandon the great way. At the time of Wei and Xuan, Mencius, Sun Qing, etc. all followed the great cause of Confucius and polished it, and became famous for their knowledge in the world.
When Qin Shihuang annexed the world, burned "Poems" and "Books", and killed magicians, the Six Studies were incomplete from then on.
When Chen She became king, the Confucian scholars of Lu State took Kong's ritual vessels and went to him, so Kong Jia became Chen She's doctor and eventually died with him.
Chen She rose up from a common man, banished him to the garrison, established his own country, and perished in less than a year. This is a very trivial matter, but Mr. Luo Shen carried ritual utensils and was appointed as a minister. Why?
Because Qin banned this enterprise, he was angry and relied on King Chen to vent his anger.
When Emperor Gao killed Xiang Ji and led his troops to besiege Lu, the Confucian scholars in Lu were still reciting rituals and singing string songs. Isn't it a country that the saints sent to learn and love to learn?
Then the Confucian scholars began to study the classics and taught the rituals of shooting and drinking in the countryside.
Shusun Tong created Han rituals and became a regular official. Those who participated in the formulation of the rituals among his disciples became the first choice, and then scholarship flourished.
However, there were still wars going on, and there was no time to establish the order to pacify the world.
During the reign of Xiaohui and Gaohou, the ministers were all heroes of military force.
Xiaowen made some progress in it, but Xiaowen originally liked the study of punishment and naming.
When he arrived at Xiaojing, Confucian scholars were not allowed to be employed. Empress Dowager Dou also liked Huang Lao's skills, so the doctors were waiting for official inquiries, but none of them were used.
When the Han Dynasty arose, Tiansheng from Zichuan taught "Yi"; Fusheng from Jinan taught "Book"; when it came to "Poetry", it was Shen Peigong in Lu, Yuan Gusheng in Qi, and Taifu Han in Yan; it was Lu Gaotang who taught "Li"; it was Hu Wusheng in Qi who taught "Spring and Autumn", and Dong Zhongshu in Zhao.
When the Empress Dowager Bao died, Wu'an Juntian Ju became the prime minister, rejecting the opinions of Huang Lao and Xing Ming, and employing hundreds of literary Confucian scholars. Gongsun Hong became the prime minister and made a marquis because of his study of "Spring and Autumn", and scholars all over the world followed suit.
Gongsun Hong, an academic official, was saddened by the decline of the Dao, so he wrote: The Prime Minister and the Censor said: "I heard that the people should be guided by etiquette and educated by music."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
婚姻者，居室之大伦也。
今礼废乐崩，朕甚愍焉，故详延天下方闻之士，咸登诸朝。
其令礼官劝学，讲议洽闻，举遗兴礼，以为天下先。
太常议，予博士弟子，崇乡里之化，以厉贤材焉。
谨与太常臧、博士平等议，曰：闻三代之道，乡里有教，夏曰校，殷曰庠，周曰序。
其劝善也，显之朝廷；其惩恶也，加之刑罚。
故教化之行也，建首善自京师始，由内及外。
今陛下昭至德，开大明，配天地，本人伦，劝学兴礼，崇化厉贤，以风四方，太平之原也。
古者政教未洽，不备其礼，请因旧官而兴焉。
为博士官置弟子五十人，复其身。
太常择民年十八以上、仪状端正者，补博士弟子。
translation: 
Marriage is the most important thing in the family.
Now that the rites and music have collapsed, I am very sad, so I have appointed all the wise and knowledgeable people in the world to serve in the imperial court.
The etiquette officials should be ordered to encourage learning, explain the meaning of scriptures, gain extensive knowledge, encourage people to relax, promote etiquette, and set an example for the world.
Taichang suggested that disciples should be awarded Ph.D.s and should be educated in the countryside to encourage talented people.
I would like to discuss this with Taichang Zang and Dr. Taichang on an equal footing: I heard that according to the Three Dynasties, there is a place for education in the countryside. Xia is called the school, Yin is called Xiang, and Zhou is called Xu.
Encourage good deeds and make them visible to the court; punish evil deeds and impose punishments.
Therefore, the implementation of education and the establishment of good deeds start from the capital, from the inside to the outside.
Now, Your Majesty has shown great virtue, opened up the Ming Dynasty, coordinated the heaven and the earth, based on human relations, encouraged learning and propriety, advocated enlightenment, encouraged talents, and educated the four directions. This is the origin of peace.
In ancient times, politics and religion were not widespread, and rituals were incomplete. Please use the old academic officials to raise it.
Fifty disciples were appointed for the doctorate officers to exempt them from corvee service.
Too often, people over the age of eighteen and well-groomed are chosen to supplement their Ph.D. disciples.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
郡国县官有好文学、敬长上、肃政教、顺乡里、出入不悖，所闻，令、相、长、丞上属所二千石。
二千石谨察可者，常与计偕，诣太常，得受业如弟子。
一岁皆辄课，能通一艺以上，补文学掌故缺；其高第可以为郎中，太常籍奏。
即有秀才异等，辄以名闻。其不事学若下材，及不能通一艺，辄罢之，而请诸能称者。
巨谨案诏书律令下者，明天人分际，通古今之谊，文章尔雅，训辞深厚，恩施甚美。
小吏浅闻，弗能究宣，亡以明布谕下。
以治礼掌故以文学礼义为官，迁留滞。
请选择其秩比二百石以上及吏百石通一艺以上补左右内史、太行卒史，比百石以下补郡太守卒史，皆各二人，边郡一人。
先用诵多者，不足，择掌故以补中二千石属，文学掌故补郡属，备员。
请著功令。
它如律令。
translation: 
County magistrates of prefectures and counties love literature and classics, respect their superiors, respect politics and religion, obey the rules of the countryside, and do not violate etiquette when coming in and out. After hearing about this, the county magistrate, state minister, county magistrate, and county magistrate reported the two thousand stones they belonged to.
Er Qianshi carefully inspected the ones that he thought were acceptable, and went to Taichang with the recommended officials, so that they could receive their karma like disciples.
In the first year, everyone specializes in one subject, and can learn more than one art to fill the gap in literature and anecdotes; Gao Di can be a doctor, and Tai often compiles and selects the roster.
If there are extraordinary talents, they will be named separately. Those who are not knowledgeable and are not proficient in a certain skill will be exempted from qualifications, and those who are qualified will be asked.
The edicts and laws issued by Chen Jin'an distinguish the differences between heaven and man, communicate ancient and modern principles, are elegant and upright, have profound precepts, and are graceful.
The petty officials have little knowledge and knowledge, cannot propagate deeply, and cannot clearly issue instructions to the people.
Since officials who govern etiquette and knowledge are supposed to be educated and learn etiquette, they should promote the stagnant talents.
Please choose those whose salary is equivalent to more than 200 shi and who are proficient in more than 100 shi of official skills to supplement the internal history of the left and right, and those who are responsible for the general affairs. Those who are equivalent to less than 100 shi to supplement the history of the prefecture and governor of the county. There are two people from each county and one person from the border counties.
Those who recite a lot of sutras will be hired first. If there are not enough, anecdotes will be selected to make up for the two thousand stone attributes, and literary anecdotes will make up for the counties and counties to match the quota.
Please follow the orders.
Everything else is as ordered.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
制曰： 可。
自此以来，公卿大夫士吏彬彬多文学之士矣。
昭帝时举贤良文学，增博士弟子员满百人，宣帝末增倍之。
元帝好儒，能通一经者皆复。
数年，以用度不足，更为设员千人，郡国置《五经》百石卒史。
成帝末，或言孔子布衣养徒三千人，今天子太学弟子少，于是增弟子员三千人。
岁余，复如故。
平帝时王莽秉政，增元士之子得受业如弟子，勿以为员，岁课甲科四十人为郎中，乙科二十人为太子舍人，丙科四十人补文学掌故云。
自鲁商瞿子木受《易》孔子，以授鲁桥庇子庸。
子庸授江东馯臂子弓。
子弓授燕周丑子家。
子家授东武孙虞子乘。
子乘授齐田何子装。
及秦禁学，《易》为筮卜之书，独不禁，故传受者不绝也。
translation: 
The edict was issued: "Yes."
From then on, many officials, officials and officials were elegant, virtuous and literary people.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, he recommended virtuous literature and increased the number of doctoral disciples to over 100. At the end of Xuanlong's reign, the number doubled again.
Gencha was fond of Confucianism, and those who could master the classics were exempted from corvee service.
A few years later, due to insufficient funds, the number of personnel was changed to 1,000, and the county established a "Hundred Stones" History of the Five Classics.
In the last years of Emperor Cheng's reign, some people said that Confucius raised 3,000 disciples as common people. Now the Emperor's Imperial Academy had too few disciples, so he increased his disciples to 3,000.
More than a year later, the old system was restored.
When Wang Mang was in power during the reign of Emperor Ping, it was added that the children of Yuanshi could receive careers as disciples and were not counted as part of the quota. Forty people in the first class would serve as doctors, 20 people in the second class would serve as the prince's family, and forty people in the third class would make up for literary stories.
Qu Zimu, a Shang of Lu, received the Book of Changes from Confucius and taught it to Ziyong of Lu Qiaobi.
Ziyong passed it on to Jiang Shugan Arm Zi Gong.
Zi Gong was passed on to Chouzi's family in Yanzhou.
The Zi family passed it down to Dongwu Sun Yu Zicheng.
Zicheng passed it on to Qitian He Zizhuang.
When the Qin Dynasty banned learning, "Yi" was Zhen's book. It was the only book that was not banned, so it was continuously passed on and accepted.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
汉兴，田何以齐田徙杜陵，号杜田生，授东武王同子中、雒阳周王孙、丁宽、齐服生，皆著《易传》数篇。
同授淄川杨何，字叔元，元光中征为太中大夫。
齐即墨城，至城阳相。
广川孟但，为太子门大夫。
鲁周霸、莒衡胡、临淄主父偃，皆以《易》至大官。
要言《易》者本之田何。
丁宽字子襄，梁人也。
初，梁项生从田何受《易》，时宽为项生从者，读《易》精敏，才过项生，遂事何。
学成，何谢宽。
宽东归，何谓门人曰： 《易》以东矣。
宽至雒阳，复从周王孙受古义，号《周氏传》。
景帝时，宽为梁孝王将军距吴、楚，号丁将军，作《易说》三万言，训故举大谊而已，今《小章句》是也。
宽授同郡砀田王孙。
王孙授施雠、孟喜、梁丘贺。
繇是《易》有施、孟、梁丘之学。
施雠字长卿，沛人也。
沛与砀相近，雠为童子，从田王孙受《易》。
后雠徙长陵，田王孙为博士，复从卒业，与孟喜、梁丘贺并为门人。
translation: 
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Tian He was moved to Duling because he was a member of the Tian family of the old Qi State. He was named Du Tiansheng and passed on to King Tong Zizhong of Shuwu, Wangsun of Zhou of Luoyang, Ding Kuan, and Qi Fusheng, all of whom wrote several chapters of "Yi Zhuan".
The king returned the message to Yun Ze, named Shuyuan, and Yuanguang Zhongzheng was appointed Taizhong doctor.
Qi Jimo was completed, and the palace reached the city of Yangxiang.
Meng Dan of Guangchuan became a doctor of the Prince's family.
Zudanling, Juhenghu, and Linzi Zhufuyan all became high officials because of "Yi".
Briefly, "Yi" originated from He Tian.
Ding Kuan, courtesy name Zixiang, was a native of Liang.
At first, Luan Gengsheng studied "Yi" with Danbao. At that time, Ding Kuan was Xiang Sheng's follower.
After completing his studies, Dan Bao asked Ding Kuan to leave.
When Ding Kuan returned to the East, Tian He said to his disciples: "The Book of Changes" has arrived in the East.
When Gong Kuan arrived at Fei Yun, he also learned ancient meanings from Dan Wang Se, which was known as "The Biography of the Zhou Family".
At the time of the tomb pot, Gong Kuan led the army to resist Wu Chu for King Luan Hua. He was named General Ding and wrote "Yi Shuo" with 30,000 words. He explained the meaning of the words and cited their great meanings, which is now "Xiao Zhang Ju".
The publicity was given to Wang se, a powerful Dan of the same county.
Wang Se passed it on to Shi Kun, Chuixi and Luan Qiuhe.
From this, "Yi" contains the schools of Shi, Mencius and Liangqiu.
Shi Yu, whose courtesy name is Changqing, was born in Pei.
Pei and Dang were very close. When Shi Yu was a child, he studied "Yi" with Dandan He.
Later Yanfan moved to Xinglu, Tian Wangsun became a doctor, and completed his studies with him, and he was a disciple of Zhouxi and Liangqiuhe.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
谦让，常称学废，不教授。
及梁丘贺为少府，事多，乃遣子临分将门人张禹等从雠问。
雠自匿不肯见，贺固请，不得已乃授临等。
于是贺荐雠： 结发事师数十年，贺不能及。
诏拜雠为博士。
甘露中与《五经》诸儒杂论同异于石渠阁。
雠授张禹、琅邪鲁伯。
伯为会稽太守，禹至丞相。
禹授淮阳彭宣、沛戴崇子平。
崇为九卿，宣大司空。
禹、宣皆有传。
鲁伯授太山毛莫如少路、琅邪邴丹曼容，著清名。
莫如至常山太守。
此其知名者也。
由是施家有张、彭之学。
孟喜字长卿，东海兰陵人也。
父号孟卿，善为《礼》、《春秋》，授后苍、疏广。
世所传《后氏礼》、《疏氏春秋》，皆出孟卿。
孟卿以《礼经》多、《春秋》烦杂，及使喜从田王孙受《易》。
translation: 
He is very humble and often claims that his studies are neglected and he does not teach.
When Liang Qiuhe became the Shaofu and had many affairs, he sent his son Liang Qiulin and his disciple Zhang Yu to wait for Shi Yun to study.
Shi Yu hid and refused to see him. Liang Qiuhe insisted on requesting him, and he had no choice but to teach Liang Qiu Lin and others.
So Liang Qiuhe recommended Shi Yu: He had been serving the teacher for decades since he was born, but Liang Qiuhe could not compare to him.
Shao worshiped Shi Yu as a doctor.
In the nectar and the Five Classics, the Confucian scholars discussed the similarities and differences together in Shiqu Pavilion.
Shi Yu passed it on to Zhang Yu and Langxie Lu Bo.
Lu Bo was the governor of Kuaiji, and Zhang Yu became the prime minister.
Zhang Yu passed it on to Peng Xuan and Pei Dai Chong Ziping of Huaiyang.
Dai Chong was appointed as the Nine Ministers, and Peng Xuan was appointed as the Great Sikong.
Zhang Yu and Peng Xuan both reported it.
Lu Bo passed it on to Taishan Mao Moru Shaolu and Langye Bingdan Manrong, who were famous for their clear names.
Mo Ruguan went to Changshan Prefecture.
These are well-known people.
From then on, the Shi family had the school of Zhang and Peng.
Meng happy, courtesy name Changqing, was from Lanling, Shuhai.
His father's name was Meng Qing, and he was good at "Li" and "Spring and Autumn", which he taught to Hou Cang and Shu Guang.
The "Hou Shi Rites" and "Shu Shi Chun Qiu" passed down by later generations were both written by Meng Qing.
Because the "Book of Rites" contained a lot of content and the "Spring and Autumn Annals" were complicated, Meng Qing asked Meng happy to study "Yi" with Tian Wangsun.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
喜好自称誉，得《易》家候阴阳灾变书，诈言师田生且死时枕喜膝，独传喜，诸儒以此耀之。
同门梁丘贺疏通证明之，曰： 田生绝于施雠手中，时喜归东海，安得此事？
又蜀人赵宾好小数书，后为《易》，饰《易》文，以为 箕子明夷，阴阳气亡箕子；箕子者，万物方荄兹也。
宾持论巧慧，《易》家不能难，皆曰 非古法也 。
云受孟喜，喜为名之。
后宾死，莫能持其说。喜因不肯仞，以此不见信。
喜举孝廉为郎，曲台署长，病免，为丞相椽。
博士缺，众人荐喜。
上闻喜改师法，遂不用喜。
喜授同郡白光少子、沛翟牧子兄，皆为博士。
由是有翟、孟、白之学。
梁丘贺字长翁，琅邪诸人也。
以能心计，为武骑。
从太中大夫京房受《易》。
房者，淄川杨何弟子也。
translation: 
Meng Xi liked to brag about himself, so he obtained the Book of Yin and Yang Catastrophes from the Book of Changes. He falsely claimed that his teacher Tian Sheng was resting on Meng Xi's knees when he was about to die, and passed it on to Meng happy alone. Confucian scholars therefore boasted about him.
Fellow disciple Liang Qiuhe argued against his falsehood: Tian Sheng died in Shi Yu's hands, and Meng happy returned to the East China Sea at that time. How could this happen?
In addition, Zhao Bin, a native of Shu, was fond of decimal books. He later studied the Book of Changes and modified the text of the Book of Changes. He believed that Jizi brought out Yi, and the yin and yang energy destroyed Jizi; Jizi was the root of all things and flourished.
Zhao Bin's theory of Qiao Hui cannot be criticized by the "Yi" scholars, who all said that it was not an ancient method.
It is said that he was influenced by Meng happy, who praised him.
Later, Zhao Bin died and no one could grasp his teachings. Meng happy refused to praise him and was therefore not convinced.
Meng happy recommended Xiaolian as Lang and director of Qutai. He was dismissed due to illness and became the prime minister's assistant.
There is a shortage of doctors, so everyone recommends Meng happy.
When the emperor heard that Meng happy had changed his teaching methods, he refused to use Meng happy.
Meng happy passed it on to the young son Bai Guang and the elder brother Peizhai Muzi from the same county, both of whom became Ph.D.s.
From this came the schools of Zhai, Meng and Bai.
Liangqiu He's courtesy name is Chang Weng, and he is a member of the Langxie family.
Because he was good at mental arithmetic, he became a martial arts knight.
Learn "Yi" from Taizhong doctor Sai Fei.
Sai Ya is a disciple of Miaoshan Yang He.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
房出为齐郡太守，贺更事田王孙。
宣帝时，闻京房为《易》明，求其门人，得贺。
贺时为都司空令。坐事，论免为庶人。
待诏黄门数入说教侍中，以召贺。
贺人说，上善之，以贺为郎。
会八月饮酎，行祠孝昭庙，先驱旄头剑挺堕坠，首垂泥中，刃乡乘舆车，马惊。
于是召贺筮之，有兵谋，不吉。
上还，使有司侍祠。
是时，霍氏外孙代郡太守任宣坐谋反诛，宣子章为公车丞，亡在渭城界中，夜玄服入庙，居郎间，执戟立庙门，待上至，欲为逆。
发觉，伏诛。
故事，上常夜入庙，其后待明而入，自此始也。
translation: 
Jingfang went out to become the prefect of Qi County, and Liangqiu He changed his position to serve Tian Wangsun.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, he heard that Jingfang had studied "Yi" very thoroughly, so he looked for his disciples and found Liang Qiuhe.
Liang Qiuhe was the commander of the capital at that time. He was convicted and was exempted from being a commoner.
When he was waiting for the imperial edict at Huangmen, he came in many times to lecture and teach the scriptures among the attendants, so he summoned Liang Qiu to congratulate him.
Liang Qiuhe came to the court to preach scriptures. The emperor thought it was good and appointed him as a Lang.
It happened to be the eighth month of the lunar month when the emperor went out to offer sacrifices to Xiaozhao Temple. The sword of the pioneering cavalryman came out and fell to the ground. The sword head fell into the mud and the blade was pointed at the chariot. The horse was frightened.
So he summoned Liangqiu to congratulate him on this matter. It was a military plan, so it was unlucky.
The emperor went back and asked Yousi to take charge of the temple affairs.
At this time, the Huo family's grandson Ren Xuan, the prefect of the county, was killed for treason. Ren Xuan's son Ren Zhang was a Gongche Cheng and fled within the boundaries of Weicheng. He entered the temple in Yejuo wearing mysterious clothes, mixed among the men, and stood at the temple gate with a halberd, waiting for the emperor's arrival, preparing to cause trouble.
He was discovered and sentenced to death.
In the past, the emperor often entered the temple at night, and then waited until dawn before entering the temple. This is how it started.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
贺以筮有应，由是近幸，为太中大夫，给事中，至少府。
为人小心周密，上信重之。
年老终官。
传子临，亦入说，为黄门郎。
甘露中，奉使问诸儒于石渠。
临学精孰，专行京房法。
琅邪王吉通《五经》，闻临说，善之。
时，宣帝选高材郎十人从临讲，吉乃使其子郎中骏上疏从临受《易》。
临代五鹿充宗君孟为少府，骏御史大夫，自有传。
充宗授平陵士孙张仲方、沛邓彭祖子夏、齐衡咸长宾。
张为博士，至扬州牧，光禄大夫给事中，家世传业。彭祖，真定太傅。咸，王莽讲学大夫。
由是梁丘有士孙、邓、衡之学。
京房受《易》梁人焦延寿。
延寿云尝从孟喜问《易》。
会喜死，房以为延寿《易》即孟氏学，翟牧、白生不肯，皆曰非也。
至成帝时，刘向校书，考《易》说，以为诸《易》家说皆祖田何、杨叔元、丁将军，大谊略同，唯京氏为异，党焦延寿独得隐士之说，托之孟氏，不相与同。
房以明灾异得幸，为石显所谮诛，自有传。
房授东海殷嘉、河东姚平、河南乘弘，皆为郎、博士。
由是《易》有京氏之学。
translation: 
Liang Qiuhe was lucky enough to be granted the title of Taizhong doctor because of the efficacious divination divination.
He was careful and thoughtful, and the emperor valued him very much.
He died of old age and served in the palace.
His son Liang Qiulin also went to the court to preach scriptures and became a Huang Menlang.
In the dew, I was ordered to hire and consult Confucian scholars in Shiqu.
Liang Qiulin was proficient in knowledge and specialized in the methods of the capital.
Wang Ji of Langye was well versed in the Five Classics. When he heard Liang Qiulin's teachings, he thought they were very good.
At that time, Emperor Xuan selected ten talented doctors to teach scriptures with Liang Qiu Lin. Wang Ji asked his son Wang Junshangshu, a doctor, to study "Yi" with Liang Qiu Lin.
Liang Qiulin replaced Wulu Chongzongjun Meng as the Shaofu, and Wang Jun became the imperial censor, each with his own biography.
The title of Chongzong was passed down to Zhang Zhongfang, the grandson of Pingling scholar, Zixia of Pei Deng, Pengzu, and Changbin of Qi Hengxian.
Zhang, the scholar's grandson, was a doctor. He served as a pastor in Yangzhou, and was appointed by Dr. Guanglu. The family tradition was passed down from generation to generation; Peng Zu was the Taifu of Zhending; Hengxian was Wang Mang's lecturer.
From then on, there were scholars like Sun, Deng and Heng in Liangqiu.
Jingfang studied Yi from Jiao Yanshou, a Liang man.
Yanshou said that he once asked Meng happy about "Yi".
When Meng happy died, Jingfang thought that Yanshou's "Yi" was Mencius's study. Zhai Mu and Bai Sheng disagreed and said it was not the case.
When he became emperor, Liu Xiangxu studied the "Yi" theory and believed that the theories of all "Yi" schools originated from Tian He, Yang Shuyuan and General Ding. They had the same principles, only the Jing family was different. Perhaps it was Jiao Yanshou's unique hermit's theory, pretending to be the Meng family, which was not the same as them.
Jingfang was favored because he knew about the disaster, but was framed by Shi Xian and died. There is a legend of his own.
Jingfang was passed on to Yin Jia of Shuhai, Yao Ping of Hedong, and Chenghong of Henan, all of whom became doctors or doctors.
From then on, the "Book of Changes" contained Jing's theory.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
长于卦筮，亡章句，徒以《彖》、《象》、《系辞》十篇文言解说上下经。
琅邪王璜平中能传之。
璜又传古文《尚书》。
高相，沛人也。
治《易》与费公同时，其学亦亡章句，专说阴阳灾异，自言出于丁将军。
传至相，相授子康及兰陵毌将永。
康以明《易》为郎，永至豫章都尉。
及王莽居摄，东郡太守翟谊谋举兵诛莽，事未发，康候知东郡有兵，私语门认，门人上书言之。
后数月，翟谊兵起，莽召问，对 受师高康鸀。
莽恶之，以为惑众，斩康。
由是《易》有高氏学。
高、费皆未尝立于学官。
伏生，济南人也，故为秦博士。
孝文时，求能治《尚书》者，天下亡有，闻伏生治之，欲召。
时伏生年九十余，老不能行，于是诏太常，使掌故朝错往受之。
秦时禁《书》，伏生壁藏之，其后大兵起，流亡。
汉定，伏生求其《书》，亡数十篇，独得二十九篇，即以教于齐、鲁之间。
齐学者由此颇能言《尚书》，山东大师亡不涉《尚书》以教。
伏生教济南张生及殴阳生。
张生为博士，而伏生孙以治《尚书》征，弗能明定。
是后鲁周霸、雒阳贾嘉颇能言《尚书》云。
translation: 
Fei Zhi was named Dancocoon and was from Seki. After studying "Yi", he became a Lang, and his father ordered him to be an official. He is good at hexagrams and hexagrams. He does not explain the chapters and sentences, but only uses ten classical texts to explain the Shang Xia Jing.
Dong Wangsheng, who was able to explain it to Zhexiedan.
Dan Geng also explained the ancient text "Shang Shu".
Gao Xiang, Pei people.
While studying "Yi" and Fei Gong, his theory did not explain the chapters and sentences, but focused on the differences between yin and yang disasters, claiming to be from General Ding.
After it was passed to Gao Xiang, Gao Xiang passed it on to his sons Gao Kang and Lanling Wu Jiangyong.
Gao Kang became a doctor because he understood the "Yi", and he was promoted to the captaincy of Yuzhang.
When Wang Mang was staying at his residence, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Dongjun, planned to launch an army to kill Wang Mang. Before the matter was launched, Gao Kang Houcha learned that there was a military incident in Shu County and privately informed his disciples, who wrote a letter to report the matter.
A few months later, Zhai Yi raised an army. Wang Mang summoned his disciples and replied that he had heard about Teacher Yu Gao Kang.
Wang Mang hated him and thought he was misleading everyone, so he killed Gao Kang.
From then on, there was Gao's school in "Yi".
Neither Gao nor Fei's theories were established in the academy.
Fu Sheng is from Jinan. Formerly Dr. Qin.
When Xiaowen was in office, he was looking for someone who could explain the Book of Documents. There was no such person in the world. He heard that Fu Sheng was studying it and wanted to summon him.
Fu Sheng was already over ninety years old at that time and was too old to go, so Shao Ling Taichang sent his master Chao Cuo to study.
During the Qin Dynasty, "Book" was banned, and Fu Sheng hid it in the wall. After that, war broke out and he was exiled everywhere.
After the Han pacified the world, Fu Sheng looked for his "Book" and lost dozens of articles. He only found twenty-nine articles and used them to teach between Qi and Lu.
Therefore, the scholars of Qi are very good at teaching "Book of Documents", and all the masters in Shandong teach scriptures without involving "Book of Documents".
Fu Sheng taught Jinan Zhang Sheng and Ouyang Sheng.
Zhang Sheng became a doctor, but Fu Sheng's grandson was recruited for studying "Book of Documents", but he could not explain the conclusion.
After that, Lu Zhouba and Luoyang Jiajia were both able to speak Shangshu.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
欧阳生字和伯，千乘人也。事伏生，授倪宽。
宽又受业孔安国，至御史大夫，自有传。
宽有俊材，初见武帝，语经学。
上曰： 吾始以《尚书》为朴学，弗好，及闻宽说，可观。
乃从宽问一篇。
欧阳、大小夏侯氏学皆出于宽。
宽授欧阳生子，世世相传，至曾孙高子阳，为博士。
高孙地馀长宾以太子中庶子授太子，后为博士，论石渠。
元帝即位，地馀侍中，贵幸，至少府。
戒其子曰： 我死，官属即送汝财物，慎毋受。
汝九卿儒者子孙，以廉洁著，可以自成。
及地馀死，少府官属共送数百万，其子不受。
天子闻而嘉之，赐钱百万。
地馀少子政为王莽讲学大夫。
由是《尚书》世有欧阳氏学。
林尊字长宾，济南人也。
事欧阳高，为博士，论石渠。
translation: 
Ouyang was born with the courtesy name Nian Bo and was born in Wang Chui. The service is abundant and the spread is wide.
Tankuan also learned from Kong Guiliang, and he became a censor and had his own biography.
Frank is really talented. He meets Genyou for the first time and talks about Confucian classics.
The emperor said: I began to think that "Shang Shu" was a simple study, and I didn't like it. After listening to Ni Kuan's words, I thought it was worth reading.
So I asked Ni Kuan for advice.
The learning of Ouyang and Xiao Xiahou all originated from Ni Kuan.
Ni Kuan passed it down to Ouyang Sheng's son, and from generation to generation, his great-grandson Ouyang Gao Ziyang became a doctor.
Ouyang Gao's grandson Yu Changbin taught the prince as the prince's concubine. Later he became a doctor and lectured in Shiqu.
When Emperor Yuan came to the throne, Di Yu was appointed as a servant. He was in a high position and favored, and his official position was at least as high as the palace.
He warned his son: After my death, my officials and relatives will give you property, so do not accept it.
You are a descendant of the Confucian scholar Jiuqing. You are known for your integrity and can achieve success on your own.
After Diyu's death, the Shaofu officials gave him millions in gifts, but his son refused to accept them.
After Tianchan heard about it, he was very impressed and gave him millions of dollars.
Diyu's youngest son Ouyang Zheng was Wang Mang's lecturer.
From then on, Ouyang's theory was handed down in the Book of Documents.
Lin Zun, courtesy name Changbin, was from Jinan.
He served Ouyang Gao, became a doctor, and gave lectures in Shiqu.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
后至少府、太子太傅，授平陵平当、梁陈翁生。
当至丞相，自有传。
翁生信都太傅，家世传业。
由是欧阳有平、陈之学。
翁生授琅邪殷崇、楚国龚胜。
崇为博士，胜右扶风，自有传。
而平当授九江朱普公文、上党鲍宣。
普为博士，宣司隶校尉，自有传。
徒众尤盛，知名者也。
夏侯胜，其先夏侯都尉，从济南张生受《尚书》以传族子始昌。
始昌传胜，胜又事同郡蕳卿。
蕳卿者，倪宽门人。
胜传从兄子建，建又事欧阳高。
胜至长信少府，建太子太傅，自有传。
由是《尚书》有大小夏侯之学。
周堪字少卿，齐人也。
与孔霸俱事大夏侯胜。
霸为博士。堪译官令，论于石渠，经为最高，后为太子少傅，而孔霸以太中大夫授太子。
translation: 
Later he was appointed as Shaofu, Crown Prince and Taifu, and passed on to Pingling Pingdang and Liang Chen Wengsheng.
When he was an official to the prime minister, he had his own biography.
Weng Sheng was the Taifu of Xindu, and his family taught it from generation to generation.
From then on, Ouyang Youping and Chen Zhixue.
Weng Sheng passed it on to Yin Chong of Langye and Gong Sheng of Chu State.
Yin Chong became a doctor, Gong Sheng became You Fufeng, and he had his own biography.
Pingdang passed it on to Jiujiang Zhupu Gongwen and Shangdang Bao Xuan.
Zhu Pu became a doctor, Bao Xuan was appointed as the Sili school captain, and he had his own biography.
There are many disciples, most of whom are well-known people.
Xiahou Sheng, his ancestor Xiahou Duwei, learned Shangshu from Zhang Sheng of Jinan and passed it on to his son Shichang.
Shichang was passed on to Xiahou Sheng, who then served as a minister of the same county.
Lin Qing is Ni Kuan's disciple.
Xiahou Sheng was passed on to his brother's son, Xiahou Jian, who in turn served Ouyang Gao.
Xiahou was promoted to official position in Changxin Shaofu. Xiahou Jian was appointed as the crown prince and tutor, and he had his own biography.
From then on, "Shangshu" contained the learning of the great and small Xiahou.
Zhou Kan, courtesy name Shaoqing, was a native of Qi.
He and Kong Ling both care about them. Rentong is a doctor.
Ou Man translated official orders and gave lectures in Hubao. He had the highest attainments in classics and later became the prince's young master. Wang Di taught the prince as a Taizhong doctor.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
及元帝即位，堪为光禄大夫，与萧望之并领尚书事，为石显等所谮，皆免官。
望之自杀，上愍之，乃擢堪为光禄勋，语在《刘向传》。
堪授牟卿及长安许商长伯。
牟卿为博士。
霸以帝师赐爵号褒成君，传子光，亦事牟卿，至丞相，自有传。
由是大夏侯有孔、许之学。
商善为算，著《五行论历》，四至九卿，号其门人沛唐林子高为德行，平陵吴章伟君为言语，重泉王吉少音为政事，齐炔钦幼卿为文学。
王莽时，林、吉为九卿，自表上师冢，大夫、博士，郎吏为许氏学者，各从门人，会车数百辆，儒者荣之。
钦、章皆为博士，徒众尤盛。
章为王莽所诛。
张山拊字长宾，平陵人也。
事小夏侯建，为博士，论石渠，至少府。
授同县李寻、郑宽中少君、山阳张无故子儒，信都秦恭延君、陈留假仓子骄。
无故善修章句，为广陵太傅，守小夏侯说文。
恭增师法至百万言，为城阳内史。
仓以谒者论石渠，至胶东相。
寻善说灾异，为骑都尉，自有传。
translation: 
When Wutong came to the throne, Danluan was the official of Guanglu, and he was in charge of the secretarial affairs together with Lu Wangzhi. He was framed by Genti and others. They were all dismissed from office.
Wang Zhi committed suicide, and the emperor felt sorry for him, so he promoted Zhou Kan to the rank of Guang Luxun, which is recorded in the "Biography of Liu Xiang".
Zhou Kan passed it on to Mou Qing and Chang'an Xu Shang.
Mou Qing is a Ph.D.
Kong Ba, as the emperor's master, gave him the title of Bao Chengjun, taught his son Kong Guang, and also served Mou Qing. He was promoted to the prime minister, and he had his own biography.
From then on, Da Xiahou had the study of Kong and Xu.
Xu Shang was good at calculation and wrote "The Five Elements Theory". He served as an official to Jiuqing four times, and ordered his disciples Peitang Lin Zigao to engage in virtue, Pingling Wu Zhangweijun to engage in speech, Chongquan Wang Ji Shaoyin to engage in political affairs, and Qi Yiqin Youqing to engage in literature.
During the reign of Wang Mang, Tang Lin and Wang Ji became Jiuqing. They went to the teacher's tomb themselves, and the doctors, doctors, and officials studied Xu's studies. They each led their disciples and gathered hundreds of cars. Confucian scholars were proud of this.
Ying Qin and Wu Zhang were both Ph.D.s and had many apprentices.
Wu Zhang was killed by Wang Mang.
Zhang Shan was named Changbin and was born in Pingling.
He served Xiaoxia Houjian, became a doctor, gave lectures in Shiqu, and became an official at least.
He taught Li Xun of the same county, Shaojun Zheng Kuanzhong, Ziru Zhang Wugui of Shanyang, Gongyanjun of Qindu in Xindu, and Zijiao of Chenliujiacang.
For no reason, he was good at studying the chapters and sentences, became the Grand Tutor of Guangling, and followed the interpretation of the text by the Marquis of Xiao Xia.
Qin Gong increased his teachings to a million words and made an internal history of Chengyang.
Jiacang lectured in Shiqu as a visitor, and he became a micelle.
Li Xun was good at explaining disasters and strange phenomena. He became the captain of cavalry and had his own legend.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
宽中有俊材，以博士授太子，成帝即位，赐爵关内侯，食邑八百户，迁光禄大夫，领尚书事，甚尊重。
会疾卒，谷永上疏曰： 臣闻圣王尊师傅，褒贤俊，显有功，生则致其爵禄，死则异其礼谥。
昔周公薨，成王葬以变礼，而当天心。
公叔文子卒，卫侯加以美谥，著为后法。
近事，大司空朱邑、右扶风翁归德茂夭年，孝宣皇帝愍册厚赐，赞命之臣靡不激扬。
关内侯郑宽中有颜子之美质，包商、偃之文学，严然总《五经》之眇论，立师傅之显位，入则乡唐、虞之闳道，王法纳乎圣听，出则参冢宰之重职，功列施乎政事，退食自公，私门不开，散赐九族，田亩不益，德配周、召，忠合《羔羊》，未得登司徒，有家臣，卒然早终，尤可悼痛！
臣愚以为宜加其葬礼，赐之令谥，以章尊师褒贤显功之德。
上吊赠宽中甚厚。
translation: 
Kuan Zhong was a talented man, and he taught the prince as a doctor. After becoming the emperor, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 800 households. He was promoted to Guanglu doctor and served as minister, and he was very respected.
When he died of illness, Gu Yong Shangshu said: I heard that the Holy King respected his master, praised talents, and showed his merits. He would give him a title and salary while he was alive, and give him special courtesy after his death.
In the past, when the Duke of Zhou passed away, King Cheng buried him with different rites, which was in line with God's will.
When the uncle Wenzi died, Marquis Wei gave him the beautiful title Mi, which became a law for future generations.
In modern times, the great ministers Kong Zhuyi and Youfufeng Wenggui passed away early due to their outstanding moral character. Emperor Xiaoxuan expressed his condolences and entrusted him with generous rewards, and all his ministers who praised his orders were not unmoved.
Zheng Kuanzhong, the Marquis of Guan Nei, had the good qualities of Yan Zi, tolerated the literature of Shang and Yan, and summarized the wonderful treatises of the "Five Classics". He was in a prominent position as a master. Internally, he followed the path of Tang and Yu, expounding the methods of the Holy King to the emperor, and externally, he participated in the important post of tomb slaughter. His merits were extended to handling political affairs, and he reduced his salary. He followed the path of the public, did not open private doors, and distributed gifts to the nine tribes. The number of acres is not increased, the virtue is consistent with Zhou Zhao, the loyalty is consistent with "Lamb", the person failed to be promoted to Situ, has retainers, and the sudden and early death is even more sad!
Chen Yu thought that his funeral grade should be increased and he should be given beauty to show his great virtue of respecting teachers and rewarding meritorious deeds.
The emperor's tribute to Kuan Zhong was very generous.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
由是小夏侯有郑、张、秦、假、李氏之学。
宽中授东郡赵玄，无故授沛唐尊，恭授鲁冯宾。
宾为博士，尊王莽太傅，玄哀帝御史大夫，至大官，知名者也。
孔氏有古文《尚书》，孔安国以今文字读之，因以起其家逸《书》，得十余篇，盖《尚书》兹多于是矣。
遭巫蛊，未立于学官。
安国为谏大夫，授都尉朝，而司马迁亦从安国问故。
迁书载《尧典》、《禹贡》、《洪范》、《微子》、《金滕》诸篇，多古文说。
都尉朝授胶东庸生。
庸生授清河胡常少子，以明《穀梁春秋》为博士、部刺史，又传《左氏》。
常授虢徐敖。
敖为右扶风掾，又传《毛诗》，授王璜、平陵涂惲子真。
子真授河南桑钦君长。
王莽时，诸学皆立。
刘歆为国师，璜、惲等皆贵显。
世所传《百两篇》者，出东莱张霸，分析合二十九篇以为数十，又采《左氏传》、《书叙》为作首尾，凡百二篇。
篇或数简，文意浅陋。
translation: 
From then on, Xiao Xiahou had the schools of Zheng, Zhang, Qin, Jiu and Li.
Kuanzhong taught Zhao Xuan of Shujun, Wuji taught Peitang Zun, and Qin Gong taught Lu Fengbin.
Feng Bin is a doctor, Tang Zun is the tutor of Wang Mang, and Zhao Xuan is the imperial censor of Emperor Ai. He is a high-ranking official and a well-known person.
Kong Anguo had an ancient text called "Book of Documents", and Kong Anguo interpreted it using contemporary texts, so he excavated his family's "Book of Records" and found more than ten articles. There may be more "Book of Documents" than this.
He was implicated in the witchcraft case and was not established as an academic official.
Anguo admonished the officials and taught Du Weichao, and Sima Qian also asked Anguo about old affairs.
Sima Qian's books contain "Yao Dian", "Yu Gong", "Hong Fan", "Wei Zi", "Jin Teng" and other chapters, most of which are ancient literature.
Du Weichao passed it on to Miaojie Yongsheng.
Yongsheng passed it on to the young son Hu Chang of Qinghe. Because he was familiar with "Guliang Chunqiu", he became a doctor and the governor of the Ministry. He also taught "Zuo Shi".
Hu Chang passed it on to Guo Xu Ao.
Xu Ao was Youfufengpu, and he also taught "Mao Shi" to Wang Huang and Pingling Tutan Zizhen.
Zizhen passed it on to the leader of Sangqin in Henan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, all theories were based on academic officials.
Liu Xin was the imperial advisor, and Wang Huang, Tu Zang, etc. were all very important.
The "Hundred Liang Chapters" circulated in the world was written by Zhang Ba of Shulai. The twenty-nine chapters were divided into dozens of chapters, and "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Shu Xu" were used as the beginning and end, making a total of one hundred and two chapters.
Some articles are concise and omitted many times, and the writing is shallow.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
成帝时求其古文者，霸以能为《百两》征，以中书校之，非是。
霸辞受父，父有弟子尉氏樊并。
时，太中大夫平当、侍御史周敞劝上存之。
后樊并谋反，乃黜其书。
申公，鲁人也。
少与楚元王交俱事齐人浮丘伯受《诗》。汉兴，高祖过鲁，申公以弟子从师入见于鲁南宫。
吕太后时，浮丘伯在长安，楚元王遣子郢与申公俱卒学。
元王薨，郢嗣立为楚王，令申公傅太子戊。
戊不好学，病申公。
及戊立为王，胥靡申公。
申公愧之，归鲁退居家教，终身不出门。
复谢宾客，独王命召之乃往。
弟子自远方至受业者千余人，申公独以《诗经》为训故以教，亡传，疑者则阙弗传。
兰陵王臧既从受《诗》，已通，事景帝为太子少傅，免去。
武帝初即位，臧乃上书宿卫，累迁，一岁至郎中令。
及代赵绾亦尝受《诗》申公，为御史大夫。
绾、臧请立明堂以朝诸侯，不能就其事，乃言师申公。
translation: 
When he became emperor, he searched for ancient texts. Zhang Ba was recruited because he could write "Hundred Liang". He used the books in the secret palace to proofread them, but the two were inconsistent.
Zhang Ba's literary skills were taught by his father, who had a disciple, Weishi Fan Bing.
At that time, Zidang, the senior official in Taizhong, and Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, advised the emperor to establish this school.
Later, Fan Bing rebelled and deposed his book.
Shen Gong, a native of Lu.
When he was young, he worked with the five kings of Chu to study "Poetry". After falling, Zhidan passed by Lu, and the official went to Lunan Palace with his teacher as a disciple.
When Empress Dowager Lu was the Queen Mother, Jin Qiubo was cultivating a house, and the five kings of Chu sent their son Xingying to complete their studies together with Li Gong.
After the death of the five kings, Lulu succeeded him as the king of stems, and ordered Shi Gong to be the master of the prince Liu Wu.
Liu Wu was not eager to learn and hated Duke Shen.
When Liu Wu is established as king, let Shen Gong serve in the battle of Xu Mi.
Duke Shen was ashamed and returned to Lu Yin's home to teach and never left home for the rest of his life.
He also declined guests and would only go if called by the king.
There were more than a thousand disciples who came from far away to learn. Duke Shen only used the Book of Songs to expound and teach, without explaining it. If there were any doubts, he would not teach them.
Zang, the king of Lanling, studied "Poetry" with him and became proficient in it. He served Emperor Jing as the prince's young master and was dismissed from his post.
As soon as Emperor Wu came to the throne, Wang Zang wrote to the guards and was promoted many times. In one year, he was promoted to the rank of Langzhongling.
In addition, Zhao Wan of the Dai Dynasty also studied "Poetry" with Shen Gong, and became a royal censor.
Zhao Wan and Wang Zang requested the establishment of a bright hall to meet with the princes, but when the matter failed, they recommended Shen Gong to the emperor.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
于是上使使束帛加璧，安车以蒲裹轮，驾驷迎申公，弟子二人乘轺传从。
至，见上，上问治乱之事。
申公时已八十余，老，对曰： 为治者不在多言，顾力行何如耳。
是时，上方好文辞，见申公对，默然。
然已招致，即以为太中大夫，舍鲁邸，议明堂事。
窦太后喜《老子》言，不说儒术，得绾、臧之过，以让上曰： 此欲复为新垣平也！
上因废明堂事，下绾、臧吏，皆自杀。
申公亦病免归，数年卒。
弟子为博士十余人，孔安国至临淮太守，周霸胶西内史，夏宽城阳内史，砀鲁赐东海太守，兰陵缪生长沙内史，徐偃胶西中尉，邹人阙门庆忌胶东内史，其治官民皆有廉节称。
其学官弟子行虽不备，而至于大夫、郎、掌故以百数。
申公卒以《诗》、《春秋》授，而瑕丘江公尽能传之，徒众最盛。
translation: 
So the emperor sent an envoy with bundles of silk and jade, wrapped with cattails to fix the wheels of the chariot, and drove four horses to greet Duke Shen. Two disciples followed him in the court.
After arriving at the court, he met with the emperor, who asked about the rise and fall of the country.
Duke Shen, who was already over eighty years old at that time, replied: The stability of the country does not depend on talking too much, but on how to act hard.
At that time, the emperor was fond of words, and after hearing Duke Shen's answer, he remained silent.
However, he had already been recruited, so he was appointed Taizhong doctor and lived in Lu's residence to discuss matters in Mingtang.
The Empress Dowager Dou liked the remarks of "Laozi" but disliked Confucianism. She found out the faults of Zhao Wan and Wang Zang and blamed the emperor: "This is trying to be a new king again!"
The emperor then abolished the Mingtang matter, handed Zhao Wan and Wang Zang to the officials for interrogation, and both committed suicide.
Duke Shen also excused himself from official duties due to illness and returned home. He died a few years later.
More than a dozen of his disciples became doctors, including Kong Anguo, who became the prefect of Linhuai, Zhou Ba who was the internal history of Jiaoxi, Xia Kuan who was the internal history of Chengyang, Jielu Ci who was the prefect of Shuhai, Miao Sheng of Lanling who was the internal history of Changsha, Xu Yan who was the lieutenant of Jiaoxi, and Quemen Qingji who was from Zou who was the internal history of Jiaodong. They were all praised as honest and ethical in their management of officials and people.
Although his disciples have not been established as academic officials, there are hundreds of them who have reached the rank of doctor, doctor, or storyteller.
Duke Shen eventually taught the "Poems" and "Spring and Autumn", while Duke Xiaqiujiang was able to teach them all and had the most disciples.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
及鲁许生、免中徐公，皆守学教授。
韦贤治《诗》，事大江公及许生，又治《礼》，至丞相。
传子玄成，以淮阳中尉论石渠，后亦至丞相。
玄成及兄子赏以《诗》授哀帝，至大司马车骑将军，自有传。
由是《鲁诗》有韦氏学。
王式字翁思，东平新桃人也。
事免中徐公及许生。
式为昌邑王师。
昭帝崩，昌邑王嗣立，以行淫乱废，昌邑群臣皆下狱诛，唯中尉王吉、郎中令龚遂以数谏减死论。
式系狱当死，治事使者责问曰： 师何以无谏书？
式对曰： 臣以《诗》三百五篇朝夕授王，至于忠臣孝子之篇，未尝不为王反复诵之也；至于危亡失道之君，未尝不流涕为王深陈之也。
臣以三百五篇谏，是以亡谏书。
使者以闻，亦得减死论，归家不教授。
山阳张长安幼君先事式，后东平唐长宾、沛褚少孙亦来事式，问经数篇，式谢曰： 闻之于师具是矣，自润色之。
不肯复授。
translation: 
When he was a student in Lu Xusheng, and when he was exempted from high school in Xu Gong, he strictly abided by the professors he had learned.
Wei Xian studied "Poetry", served Dajiang Gong and Xu Sheng, and also studied "Li", and became the prime minister.
He passed it on to his son Xuancheng, who taught it in Shiqu as the lieutenant of Huaiyang, and later became the prime minister.
Xuancheng and his elder brother's son Wei Shang used "Poetry" to teach Emperor Ai, and he was promoted to the rank of a horse-carrying general and had his own biography.
From then on, "Lu Shi" had Websterism.
Wang Shi's courtesy name is Wengsi, and he is a new peach man from Shuping.
Xu Gong and Xu Sheng were exempted from serving.
Wang Shi became the teacher of King Lu Yi.
Emperor Zhao died, and the king of Changyi succeeded him. He was deposed because of his lewd behavior. All the officials in Changyi were imprisoned and killed. Only Lieutenant Wang Ji and Lang Zhongling Gong Sui had their crimes reduced because of their repeated admonitions.
Wang Shi was detained in prison and should be executed. The messenger who handled the matter asked: Why didn't the teacher write a remonstrance?
Wang Shi replied: I taught the king morning and evening with the 305 chapters of the "Poetry". When it comes to loyal ministers and filial sons, there is no one who does not recite it to the king over and over again; when it comes to the peril of an unethical monarch, there is no one who does not shed tears to express his condolences to the king.
The minister used three hundred and five articles to advise me, so there is no remonstrance book.
The envoy told the emperor, and he was able to have his death sentence reduced and he could no longer teach at home.
The young prince Zhang Changan of Shandong first served Wang Shi, and later Tang Changbin of Shuping and Pei Chu's grandson also came to serve Wang Shi and asked for some scriptures. Wang Shi thanked him and said: "This is what I heard from the teacher. You can polish it yourself."
Refuse to teach anymore.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
唐生、褚生应博士弟子选，诣博士，抠衣登堂，颂礼甚严，试诵说，有法，疑者丘盖不言。
诸博士惊问： 何师？ 对曰： 事式。
皆素闻其贤，共荐式。
诏除下为博士。
式征来，衣博士衣而不冠，曰： 刑余之人，何宜复充礼官？
既至，止舍中，会诸大夫、博士，共持酒肉劳式，皆注意高仰之，博士江公世为《鲁诗》宗，至江公著《孝经说》，心嫉式，谓歌吹诸生曰： 歌《骊驹》。
式曰： 闻之于师：客歌《骊驹》，主人歌《客毋庸归》。
今日诸君为主人，日尚早，未可也。
江翁曰： 经何以言之？
式曰： 在《曲礼》。
江翁曰： 何狗曲也！
式耻之，阳醉逷地。
式客罢，让诸生曰： 我本不欲来，诸生强劝我，竟为竖子所辱！
遂谢病免归，终于家。
张生、唐生、褚生皆为博士。
translation: 
Tang Sheng and Chu Sheng were selected as disciples of the doctor. When they arrived at the doctor's place, they put on their clothes and went to the hall. They looked neat and groomed. They recited the explanatory notes during the exam and were very good at it. Where there were doubts, there were no doubts.
The wise men asked their teacher in surprise, and he replied, "Serve the king's style."
Doctors often heard that he was a talented person, and they all recommended Wang Shi.
Shao Ling became a doctor.
Wang Shi was summoned, wearing doctor's clothes but without a hat, and said: How can a person who has been punished be fit to serve as a ceremony official again?
After arriving in Beijing, I stopped at the hotel and met all the doctors and doctors. They all visited Wang Shi with wine and meat, and they all admired him. Dr. Jiang Gong, who has been the master of "Lu Shi" for generations, came to Jiang Gong to write "The Classic of Filial Piety". He was jealous of Wang Shi and said to several people who sang and played: "Sing "Liju".
Wang Shi said: I heard the teacher say: The guests sing "Liju" and the host sings "Guests Don't Need to Return".
Today you are the masters, it’s still early, so you can’t.
Jiang Weng said: Where does the scripture say this?
Wang Shi said: In "Qu Li".
Jiang Weng said: What kind of dog song is this!
Wang Shi felt ashamed and pretended to be drunk and fell down.
Wang Shi waited for the guests to leave, then blamed the students and said: I didn't want to come, but you forced me to come, and I was insulted by that boy!
So he resigned and went home because of illness, and died at home.
Zhang Sheng, Tang Sheng, and Chu Sheng are all Ph.D.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
张生论石渠，至淮阳中尉。
唐生楚太傅。
由是《鲁诗》有张、唐、褚氏之学。
张生兄子游卿为谏大夫，以《诗》授元帝。
其门人琅邪王扶为泗水中尉，授陈留许晏为博士。
由是张家有许氏学。
初，薛广德亦事王式，以博士论石渠，授龚舍。
广德至御史大夫，舍泰山太守，皆有传。
辕固，齐人也。
以治《诗》孝景时为博士，与黄生争论于上前。
黄生曰： 汤、武非受命，乃杀也。
固曰： 不然。
夫桀、纣荒乱，天下之心皆归汤、武，汤、武因天下之心而诛桀、纣，桀、纣之民弗为使而归汤、武，汤、武不得已而立。非受命为何？
黄生曰：  冠虽敝必加于首，履虽新必贯于足。
何者？上下之分也。
今桀、纣虽失道，然君上也；汤、武虽圣，臣下也。
translation: 
Zhang Sheng gave lectures in Shiqu and became the lieutenant of Huaiyang.
Tang Sheng was the Grand Tutor of Chu.
From then on, "Lu Shi" had the schools of Zhang, Tang and Chu.
You Qing, the son of Zhang Sheng's brother, was an admonishing official and taught the Yuan Emperor with "Poems".
His disciple Langxie Wangfu was a swimming lieutenant, and Chenliu and Xu Yan were doctors.
From then on, the Zhang family had Xu's theory.
At first, Xue Guangde also served Wang Shi, lectured in Shiqu as a doctor, and taught Gong She.
From Guangde officials to imperial censors, Gong She was the prefect of Mount Tai, and there were legends.
Yuan solid, Qi people.
Because of his study of "Poetry", he became a doctor in Xiaojing and argued with Huang Sheng in front of the emperor.
Huang Sheng said: Tang and Wu were not ordered by Heaven, but they killed their monarchs to conquer the world.
Yuan Gu said: No.
Jie and Zhou were promiscuous, and the hearts of the world all surrendered to Tang and Wu. Tang and Wu obeyed the hearts of the world and killed Jie and Zhou. The people of Jie and Zhou did not listen to their orders and submitted to Tang and Wu. Tang and Wu had no choice but to take the throne. What is it but an order from heaven?
Huang Sheng said: Although the hat is worn out, it must be worn on the head; although the shoes are new, they must be worn on the feet. Why?
There is a distinction between up and down.
Now, although Jie and Zhou are immoral, they are still kings; although Tang and Wu are wise, they are still subordinates.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
夫主有失行，臣不正言匡过以尊天子，反因过而诛之，代立南面，非杀而何？
固曰： 必若云，是高皇帝代秦即天子之位，非邪？
于是上曰： 食肉毋食马肝，未为不知味也；言学者毋言汤、武受命，不为愚。
遂罢。
窦太后好《老子》书，召问固。
固曰： 此家人言矣。
太后怒曰： 安得司空城旦书乎！
乃使固人圈击彘。
上知太后怒，而固直言无罪，乃假固利兵。
下，固刺彘正中其心，彘应手而倒。
太后默然，亡以复罪。
后上以固廉直，拜为清河太傅，疾免。
武帝初即位，复以贤良征。
诸儒多嫉毁曰固老，罢归之。
时，固已九十余矣。
公孙弘亦征，仄目而事固。
固曰： 公孙子，务正学以言，无曲学以阿世！
translation: 
The Lord behaved inappropriately, and the minister did not speak out to correct him and respect the emperor. Instead, he killed him because of his fault and stood in his place facing south. What is this but killing the monarch?
Yuan Gu said: "It's just like what you said. Then Emperor Gao replaced Qin as the emperor, isn't it right?"
So the emperor said: "If you eat meat but not horse liver, it doesn't mean you don't know the taste. If you are a scholar and don't talk about Tang and Wu's orders, it doesn't mean you are stupid."
So give up.
Empress Dowager Dou liked the book "Laozi" and asked Yuan Gu.
Yuan Gu said: These are the words of my servant.
The Queen Mother got angry and said, "How did you get Sikong Chengdan's letter?"
So he asked Yuan Gu to go into the pigsty and kill the pigs.
The emperor knew that the Queen Mother was angry and Yuan Gu said she was not guilty, so he gave Yuan Gu a sharp weapon.
After going down, the shaft solid stabbed the pig in the heart, and the pig fell down.
The Queen Mother remained silent and had no reason to offend him again.
Later, the emperor worshiped him as Taifu Qinghe because of his integrity and uprightness, but was dismissed due to illness.
Emperor Wu had just ascended the throne and was conscripted in the name of virtue.
The Confucian scholars were all jealous and slandered Yuan Gu because he was old, so they dismissed him and sent him home.
Yuan Gu was already over ninety years old at this time.
Gongsun Hong was also requisitioned and served Yuan Gu without daring to face it.
Yuan Gu said: "My lord, you must speak according to Confucianism, and don't distort the doctrine to please the world!"


Chunk 22: 
original: 
诸齐以《诗》显贵，皆固之弟子也。
昌邑太傅夏候始昌最明，自有传。
后苍字近君，东海郯人也。事夏侯始昌。
始昌通《五经》，苍亦通《诗》、《礼》，为博士，至少府，授翼奉、萧望之、匡衡。
奉为谏大夫，望之前将军，衡丞相，皆有传。
衡授琅邪师丹、伏理斿君、颍川满昌君都。
君都为詹事，理高密太傅，家世传业。
丹大司空，自有传。
由是《齐诗》有翼、匡、师、伏之学。
满昌授九江张邯、琅邪皮容、皆至大官，徒众尤盛。
韩婴，燕人也。
孝文时为博士，景帝时至常山太傅。
婴推诗人之意，而作内、外《传》数万言，其语颇与齐、鲁间殊，然归一也。
淮南贲生受之。
燕、赵间言《诗》者由韩生。
韩生亦以《易》授人，推《易》意而为之传。
燕、赵间好《诗》，故其《易》微，唯韩氏自传之。
translation: 
Qi Zhusheng was famous because of "Shi", and they were all disciples of Yuan Gu.
Xiahou Shichang, the Taifu of Changyi, was the most proficient and had his own biography.
Hou Cang, whose courtesy name is Jinjun, is from Tan, Donghai. Serve Xiahou Shichang.
Dengdan was proficient in the "Five Classics", Qiu Wei was also proficient in "Poetry" and "Li", became a doctor, and became an official at least, teaching Yi Kui, Lu Wangzhi and Kuang Qian.
I am an admonishing official, I hope I am a former general, and Kuang Heng is the prime minister, and I have a biography.
Kuang Heng taught Langxie Shidan, Fuli Nuanjun, and Yingchuan Manchang Jundu.
Jundu is in the post of Zhan Shi, Fuli is the Tutor of Gaomi, and his studies are passed down from generation to generation in his family.
Shi Dan is Da Sikong and has his own biography.
From then on, "Qi Shi" had the theories of Yi, Kuang, Shi and Fu.
Manchang passed it on to Zhang Han and Langye Pirong of Jiujiang, both of whom became high officials and had many disciples.
Han Ying is from Yan.
During the reign of Xiaowen, he became a doctor, and during the reign of Emperor Jing, he became the Taifu of Changshan.
Han Ying speculated on the poet's meaning and wrote "Nei Zhuan" and "Wai Zhuan" with tens of thousands of words. The words are slightly different from those in Qi and Lu, but the purpose and meaning are the same.
Huainan Bensheng learned from him.
The "Poetry" between Yan and Zhao came from Han Sheng.
Han Sheng also taught people the Book of Changes, inferring the meaning of the Book of Changes and interpreting them.
Yan and Zhao liked "Poetry", so "Yi" was not taken seriously, and only Han himself taught it.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
武帝时，婴尝与董仲舒论于上前，其人精悍，处事分明，仲舒不能难也。
后其孙商为博士。
孝宣时，涿郡韩生其后也，以《易》征，待诏殿中，曰： 所受《易》即先太傅所传也。
尝受《韩诗》，不如韩氏《易》深，太傅故专传之。
司隶校尉盖宽饶本受《易》于孟喜，见涿韩生说《易》而好之，即更从受焉嘒
赵子，河内人也。
事燕韩生，授同郡蔡谊。
谊至丞相，自有传。
谊授同郡食子公与王吉。
吉为昌邑王中尉，自有传。
食生为博士，授泰山栗丰。
吉授淄川长孙顺。
顺为博士，丰部刺史。
由是《韩诗》有王、食、长孙之学。
丰授山阳张就，顺授东海发福，皆至大官，徒众尤盛。
毛公，赵人也。
治《濰》，为河间献王博士，授同国贯长卿。
长卿授解延年。
延年为阿武令，授徐敖。
敖授九江陈侠，为王莽讲学大夫。
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Han Ying once argued with Dong Zhongshu in front of the emperor. He was a smart, strong and clear-minded person, and Zhongshu could not defeat him.
Later, his grandson Han Shang became a doctor.
At the time of Xiaoxuan, Han Sheng of Zhuo County was his descendant. He was conquered because of the "Yi". He was waiting for the edict in the palace and said: The "Yi" he learned was taught by the late Taifu.
Zeng studied "Han Shi", but it was not as profound as Han's "Yi", so Taifu specially taught it.
Gai Kuanrao, the captain of Sili School, originally studied "Yi" from Meng happy. When he saw Zhuo Hansheng teaching "Yi" and liked it very much, he changed to learn from him.
Zhao Zi is from Hanoi.
He served Yan Hansheng and taught Cai Yi in the same county.
Cai Yiguan became prime minister and had his own biography.
Cai Yi was passed on to Shi Zigong and Wang Ji in the same county.
Wang Ji is the lieutenant of the king of Changyi and has his own biography.
Shi Sheng is a doctor and taught Taishan Li Feng.
Wang Ji passed it on to Sun Shun, the eldest king of Zichuan.
Changsun Shun is a doctor, and Li Feng is the governor of the department.
From then on, "Han Shi" had the theory of king, food, and eldest grandson.
Li Feng passed it on to Shanyang Zhangjiu, and Changsun Shun passed it on to Donghai Fafu. They both became high officials and had many disciples.
Mao Gong, a native of Zhao.
Studying "Poetry", he was the doctor of King Xian of Hejian and taught it to Guandan Qing of the same country.
Kenpi was passed on to Xie Yannian.
Ting Sheng was Za Baoling and taught Tu Ao.
Professor Tu Jian taught Jiuhong Subao and was Wang Mang's lecturer.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
由是言《毛诗》者，本之徐敖。
汉兴，鲁高堂生传《士礼》十七篇，而鲁徐生善为颂。
孝文时，徐生以颂为礼官大夫，传子至孙延、襄。
襄，其资性善为颂，不能通经；延颇能，未善也。
襄亦以颂为大夫，至广陵内史。
延及徐氏弟子公户满意、桓生、单资皆为礼官大夫。
而瑕丘萧奋以《礼》至淮阳太守。
诸言《礼》为颂者由徐氏。
孟卿，东海人也。
事萧奋，以授后仓、鲁闾丘卿。
仓说《礼》数万言，号曰《后氏曲台记》，授沛闻人通汉子方、梁戴德延君、戴圣次君、沛庆普孝公。
孝公为东平太傅。
德号大戴，为信都太傅；圣号小戴，以博士论石渠，至九江太守。
由是《礼》有大戴、小戴、庆氏之学。
通汉以太子舍人论石渠，至中山中尉。
普授鲁夏侯敬，又传族子咸，为豫章太守。
大戴授琅邪徐良斿卿，为博士、州牧、郡守，家世传业。
小戴授梁人桥仁季卿、杨荣子孙。
仁为大鸿胪，家世传业，荣琅邪太守。
由是大戴有徐氏，小戴有桥、杨氏之学。
胡母生字子都，齐人也。
治《公羊春秋》，为景帝博士。
与董仲舒同业，仲舒著书称其德。
年老，归教于齐，齐之言《春秋》者宗事之，公孙弘亦颇受焉。
而董生为江都相，自有传。
弟子遂之者，兰陵褚大、东平赢公、广川段仲、温吕步舒。
大至梁相，步舒丞相长史，唯赢公守学不失师法，为昭帝谏大夫，授东海孟卿、鲁眭孟。
translation: 
From then on, everyone who talked about "Mao Shi" came up with Xu Ao's theory.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Lu Gaotangsheng taught seventeen chapters of "Shili", and Lu Xusheng was good at practicing etiquette.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Xu Sheng became a ceremonial official and taught his son to his grandsons Xu Yan and Xu Xiang.
Xu Xiang was naturally good at practicing etiquette, but not proficient in the classics; Xu Yan was somewhat able to understand the classics, but was not good at it.
Xu Xiang also became a doctor because of this, and his official position was Guangling Internal History.
Xu Yan and Xu's disciples Gonghu Yiyi, Huan Sheng, and Shanchang were all officials of etiquette.
However, Xiao Fen from Xiaqiu became the prefect of Huaiyang because he was proficient in "Li".
Those who teach "Li" and practice etiquette all come from the Xu family.
Meng Qing is from Donghai.
Serve Xiao Fen, and then teach Houcang and Lu Jianqiu Qing.
Houcang interpreted tens of thousands of words in "Li", titled "Hou Shi Qu Tai Ji", and passed it on to Pei Wenren Tong Han Zifang, Liang Dade Yanjun, Dai Shengcijun, and Peiqing Pu Xiaogong.
Xiaogong is Donghutai.
Dai De's name is Da Dai, who is the Taifu of Xindu; Dai Sheng's name is Xiao Dai, who lectured in Shiqu as a doctor and became the prefect of Jiujiang.
From then on, there were Da Dai, Xiao Dai and Qing's theories in "Li".
Tongmo lectured in Shiqu as the prince and his wife, and became the lieutenant of Zhongshan.
Qingpu passed it on to Hou Jing of Lu Xia, and then to his clan son Qing Xian, who became the prefect of Yuzhang.
Dadai passed it on to Langye, Xu Liangnuo Qing, who became a doctor, prefecture shepherd, and county magistrate, and was passed on to his family for generations.
Xiao Dai passed on to the descendants of Liang Renqiao Ren Jiqing and Yang Rong.
Qiaoren is a great Honglu, and his family has taught it from generation to generation. Yang Rong is the prefect of Langxie.
From then on, the elder Dai followed the Xu family, while the younger Dai followed the Qiao and Yang schools.
Hu's mother was born in Zidu, a native of Qi.
The person who studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" was Dr. Jingdi.
He studied the same as Dong Zhongshu. Zhongshu wrote an article praising his virtue.
When he was old, he returned home to teach in Qi. People who taught "Spring and Autumn" in Qi served him as their master, and Gongsun Hong also learned a lot from him.
Dong Sheng was the Prime Minister of Jiangdu and had his own biography.
Among the famous disciples who have achieved great success are Chu Da of Lanling, Duke Meng of Cambodia Ping, and Guang! Duan Zhong, Wen Lu Bu Shu.
From the high official of Chu to the prime minister of Liang, Bu Shu served as prime minister for a long time. Only Ying Gong kept his studies and did not lose his master's teachings. He became the admonishing doctor of Emperor Zhao and taught Shuhai Mengqing and Lu Suimeng.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
孟为符节令，坐说灾异诛，自有传。
严彭祖字公子，东海下邳人也。
与颜安乐俱事眭孟。
孟弟子百余人，唯彭祖、安乐为明，质问疑谊，各持所见。
孟曰： 《春秋》之意，在二子矣！
孟死，彭祖、安乐各颛门教授。
由是《公羊春秋》有颜、严之学。
彭祖为宣帝博士，至河南郡太守。
以高第入为左冯翊，迁太子太傅，廉直不事权贵。
或说曰： 天时不胜人事，君以不修小礼曲意，亡贵人左右之助，经谊虽高，不至宰相。
愿少自勉强！
彭祖曰： 凡通经术，固当修行先王之道，何可委曲从俗，苟求富贵乎！
彭祖竟以太傅官终。
援琅邪王中，为元帝少府，家世传业。
中授同郡公孙文、东门云。
云为荆州刺史，文东平太傅，徒众尤盛。
云坐为江贼拜辱命，下狱诛。
颜安乐字公孙，鲁国薛人，眭孟姊子也。
translation: 
Suimeng was a talisman of the festival, and he was killed for explaining disasters. He has a legend of his own.
Yan Pengzu, courtesy name Gongzi, was from Xiapi, Shuhai.
He Yan Anle both served Suimeng.
There were more than a hundred disciples of Suimeng, but only Peng Zu and Anle were the most proficient. They raised questions and doubts, and each had their own opinions.
Suimeng said: The purpose of "Spring and Autumn" lies in these two people!
After Suimeng's death, Peng Zu and Anle each became professors in their own schools.
From then on, Gongyang Chunqiu contained the theory of Yan and Yan.
Pengzu was a doctor of Emperor Xuan, and his official position was the prefect of Henan and Shujun.
Because Gao Di entered the court as Zuo Fengyi and was promoted to Crown Prince and Tutor, he was honest and did not serve the powerful.
Someone advised me, "Destiny is not good enough for human affairs. Because you cannot follow small etiquette, you have no noble people to help you, and although the scriptures and meanings are profound, you cannot be the prime minister."
I hope you can force yourself a little!
Peng Zu said: "Everyone who is proficient in the classics should practice the great way of the ancestors. How can he bend and follow the customs and seek wealth and honor?"
Peng Zu eventually served as Taifu official until his death.
Among the people who taught it to King Langxie, he became the Young Master of Emperor Yuan, and he taught it to his family for generations.
Wang Zhong taught Gongsun Wen and Jian Menyun of the same county.
Shu Menyun was the governor of Jingzhou, and Gongsun Wen was the Taifu of Dongping, with many disciples.
Shu Menyun was imprisoned and killed for humiliating the Jiang thieves and losing his royal life.
Yan Anle, courtesy name Gongsun, was born in Xue of Lu State and was the son of Sister Suimeng.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
家贫，为学精力，官至齐郡太守丞，后为仇家所杀。
安乐授淮阳泠丰次君、淄川任公。公为少府，丰淄川太守。
由是颜家有泠、任之学。
始贡禹事嬴公，成于眭孟，至御史大夫，疏广事孟卿，至太子太傅，皆自有传。
广授琅邪管路，路为御史中丞。
禹授颍川堂溪惠，惠授泰山冥都，都为丞相史。
都与路又事颜安乐，故颜氏复有管、冥之学。
路授孙宝，为大司农，自有传。
丰授马宫、琅邪左咸。
咸为郡守九卿，徒众尤盛。
宫至大司徒，自有传。
瑕丘江公，受《穀梁春秋》及《诗》于鲁申公，传子至孙为博士。
武帝时，江公与董仲舒并。
仲舒通《五经》，能持论，善属文。
江公呐于口，上使与仲舒议，不如仲舒。
而丞相公孙弘本为《公羊》学，比辑其议，卒用董生。
于是上因尊《公羊》家，诏太子受《公羊春秋》，由是《公羊》大兴。
translation: 
His family was poor, but he devoted himself to his studies. He rose to the rank of Governor Cheng of Qi County, but was later killed by his enemies.
Anle taught Lingfeng Cijun of Huaiyang and Rengong of Zichuan. Rengong was the Shaofu and Lingfeng was the prefect of Zichuan.
From then on, the Yan family had Ling and Ren schools.
At first, Gongyu served Ying Gong, and later he studied at Suimeng. He was promoted to imperial censor, Shuguang served Meng Qing, and he was promoted to crown prince and tutor.
Shuguang taught Langxie Zhanlu, who was the censor Zhongcheng.
Genchui taught Toufangtang Zhoucang, and Tangwenxuan taught Taishan Mingdu, Mingdu the history of the prime minister.
Mingdu and Zhenlu also serve Qushiluan, so there is also the study of notes and tombs in ridge pressure.
A poor teacher pursues treasures, becomes a great farmer, and has his own legacy.
Lingfeng taught Ma Gong and Langye Zuoxian.
Zuo Xian was the governor of the county and had many disciples.
From Ma Gongguan to Da Situ, he has his own biography.
Duke Jiang of Xiaqiu studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu" and "Poetry" with Duke Lu Shen, and passed them on to his son, who later became a doctor.
During the selection and investigation, Dou Gong and Dong Zhongshu were equally famous.
Chu Crab is familiar with the Five Classics, can formulate arguments, and is good at writing articles.
The Duke of Liao was slow in speech, so the emperor asked him to argue with Shu, who was not as good as Zhong Shu.
The Prime Minister Gongsun Hong originally studied "Gongyang", arranged and edited its meaning, and finally appointed Dong Sheng.
So the emperor respected the "Gongyang" family, and Shao ordered the prince to learn "Gongyang Chunqiu". From then on, "Gongyang" prospered.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
太子既通，复私问《穀梁》而善之。
其后浸微，唯鲁荣广王孙、皓星公二人受焉。
广尽能传其《诗》、《春秋》，高材捷敏，与《公羊》大师眭孟等论，数困之，故好学者颇复受《穀梁》。
沛蔡千秋少君、梁周庆幼君、丁姓子孙皆从广受。
千秋又事皓星公，为学最笃。
宣帝即位，闻卫太子好《穀梁春秋》，以问丞相韦贤、长信少府夏侯胜及侍中乐陵侯史高，皆鲁人也，言穀梁子本鲁学，公羊氏乃齐学也，宜兴《穀梁》。
时千秋为郎，召见，与《公羊》家并说，上善《穀梁》说，擢千秋为谏大夫给事中，后有过，左迁平陵令。
复求能为《穀梁》者，莫及千秋。
上愍其学且绝，乃以千秋为郎中户将，选郎十人从受。
汝南尹更始翁君本自事千秋，能说矣，会千秋病死，征江公孙为博士。
刘向以故谏大夫通达待诏，受《穀梁》，欲令助之。
translation: 
After the prince understood it, he privately requested "Gu Liang" and liked it.
After that, it gradually declined, with only Wang Sun of Lu Rongguang and Duke Haoxing studying.
Rong Guang was able to explain all "Poems" and "Spring and Autumn", and he was quick in thinking. He debated with Sui Meng and other masters of "Gongyang" and stumped him many times, so the studious people studied "Gu Liang" more.
Peicai Qianqiu Shaojun, Liang Zhouqing Youjun, and descendants surnamed Ding all studied with Rongguang.
Qianqiu also served Duke Haoxing and was most dedicated to his studies.
When Emperor Xuan came to the throne, he heard that Prince Wei liked "Guliang Chunqiu" and asked Prime Minister Wei Xian, Changxin Shaofu Xiahou Sheng and Shizhong Lelinghou Shigao, all of whom were from Lu. They said that Guliangzi was originally a Lu scholar and Gongyang was a Qi scholar, so they should start studying "Guliang".
At that time, Qianqiu was a doctor, and he was summoned to discuss it with the "Gongyang" family. The emperor liked the interpretation of "Guliang" and promoted Qianqiu to the position of admonishing the doctor. Later, he made mistakes and was demoted to Pingling.
I also looked for someone who could study "Gu Liang", and no one could compare with Qianqiu.
The emperor felt pity that his scholarship would be extinct, so he asked Qianqiu to be the general of the household among the doctors, and selected ten doctors to receive the job.
Runan Yin Gengshi Wengjun originally served Qianqiu, but he was able to explain it. When Qianqiu died of illness, he recruited Jiang Gong's grandson to be a doctor.
Liu Xiang used his old advice to persuade the doctor to understand the imperial edict and study "Gu Liang", hoping that he would help Dr. Jiang.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
江博士复死，乃征周庆、丁姓待诏保宫，使卒授十人。
自元康中始讲，至甘露元年，积十余岁，皆明习。
乃召《五经》名儒太子太傅萧望之等大议殿中，平《公羊》、《穀梁》同异，各以经处是非。
时，《公羊》博士严彭祖、侍郎申輓、伊推、宋显，《穀梁》议郎尹更始、待诏刘向、周庆、丁姓并论。
《公羊》家多不见从，愿请内侍郎许广，使者亦并内《穀梁》家中郎王亥，各五人，议三十余事。
望之等十一人各以经谊对，多从《穀梁》。
由是《穀梁》之学大盛。
庆、姓皆为博士。
姓至中山太傅，授楚申章昌曼君，为博士，至长沙太傅，徒众尤盛。
尹更始为谏大夫、长乐户将，又受《左氏传》，取其变理合者以为章句，传子咸及翟方进、琅邪房风。
咸至大司农，方进丞相，自有传。
房凤字子元，不其人也。
以射策乙科为太史掌故。
translation: 
Dr. Jiang died again, so he conscripted Zhou Qing and Ding to be sent to Baogong and asked them to complete the task of teaching ten people.
From the time he started teaching in Yuan Kangzhong to the first year of Ganlu, it took a total of more than ten years and he was proficient in it.
So he summoned the famous Confucians Prince Taifu Xiao Wangzhi and others from the Five Classics to have a big debate in the palace, balancing the similarities and differences between Gongyang and Guliang, and each using the classics to discuss right and wrong.
At that time, Dr. Yan Pengzu of "Gongyang", ministers Shen Wan, Yi Tui, and Song Xian, and "Gu Liang" Yilang Yin Gengshi, Liu Xiang, Zhou Qing, and Ding were debating together.
The "Gongyang" family was not in agreement. They wanted to invite the minister Xu Guang to discuss the matter. The envoy also asked the "Guliang" family member Wang Hai to participate in the discussion. Each of them had five people and discussed more than 30 things.
Wang Zhi and other eleven people checked it with the scriptures and meanings, and most of them agreed with "Gu Liang".
From then on, the study of "Gu Liang" flourished.
Both Zhou Qing and Ding have obtained doctorates.
The official surnamed Ding became the Taifu of Zhongshan and taught Chu Shen Zhangchang Manjun. He became a doctor and became the Taifu of Changsha. He had many disciples.
Yin Gengshi was an admonishing official and a household general in Changle. He also studied the "Zhuo Shi Zhuan" and selected chapters and sentences that were consistent with the changes and theories, and taught them to his sons Yin Xian, Zhai Fangjin and Langxie Fangfeng.
When Yin Xianguan became the chief minister of agriculture, Fang Jin became prime minister and had his own biography.
Fangfeng, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, is a different person.
Because of Shece Yike, he made anecdotes about Taishi.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
太常举方正，为县令都尉，失官。
大司马票骑将军王根奏除补长史，荐凤明经通达，擢为光禄大夫，迁五官中郎将。
时，光禄勋王龚以外属内卿，与奉车都尉刘歆共校书，三人皆侍中。
歆白《左氏春秋》可立，哀帝纳之，以问诸儒，皆不对。
歆于是数见丞相孔光，为言《左氏》以求助，光卒不肯。
唯凤、龚许歆，遂共移书责让太常博士，语在《歆传》。
大司空师丹奏歆非毁先帝所立，上于是出龚等补吏：龚为弘农；歆河内；凤九江太守，至青州牧。
始，江博士授胡常，常授梁萧秉君房，王莽时为讲学大夫。
由是《穀梁春秋》有尹、胡、申章、房氏之学。
汉兴，北平侯张苍及梁大傅贾谊、京兆尹张敞、太中大夫刘公子皆修《春秋左氏传》。
谊为《左氏传》训故，授赵人贯公，为河间献王博士，子长卿为荡阴令，授清河张禹长子。
禹与萧望之同时为御史，数为望之言《左氏》，望之善之，上书数以称说。
后望之为太子太傅，荐禹于宣帝，征禹待诏，未及问，会疾死。
授尹更始，更始传子咸及翟方进、胡常。
常授黎阳贾护季君，哀帝时待诏为郎，授苍梧陈钦子佚，以《左氏》授王莽，至将军。
而刘歆从尹咸及翟方进受。
由是言《左氏》者本之贾护、刘歆。
赞曰：自武帝立《五经》博士，开弟子员，设科射策，劝以官禄，讫于元始，百有余年，传业者浸盛，支叶蕃滋，一经说至百余万言，大师众至千余人，盖禄利之路然也。
translation: 
Taichang recommended Fang Zheng to be the county magistrate and captain, but later he lost his official position.
Wang Gen, the hussar general of the Grand Sima, presented a supplementary history, recommending Fang Fengming to be a proficient scholar, promoted to Guanglu doctor, and moved to the rank of lieutenant general in the fifth palace.
At that time, King Guang Luxun and his relatives were serving as internal ministers, and he and Liu Xin, the captain of Fengche, were co-editors. The three of them were servants.
Liu Xin reported that "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu" should be established by academic officials, and Emperor Ai accepted it. He asked many Confucian scholars about this matter, but none of them answered.
Liu Xin then visited Prime Minister Kong Guang many times and explained to him "Zuo Shi" to seek help, but Liu Guang finally refused.
Only Fang Feng and Wang Gong agreed with Liu Xin, and they wrote a letter together to reprimand Dr. Taichang, which was published in the "Xin Zhuan".
The Great Sikong Master Danzhang reported that Liu Xin slandered the teachings established by the late emperor, so the emperor demoted Wang Gong and other supplementary officials. Wang Gong became the prefect of Hongnong, Liu Xin became the prefect of Hanoi, and Fang Feng became the prefect of Jiujiang. They were promoted to Qingzhou Mu.
At first Dr. Jiang taught Hu Chang, who taught Liang Xiao Bingjunfang, and Wang Mang became the lecturer.
From then on, "Guliang Chunqiu" included the schools of Yin, Hu, Shen Zhang and Fang.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Beiping Hou Zhang Cang, Liang Taifu Jia Yi, Jing Zhao Yin Zhang Chang, and Taizhong doctor Liu Gongzi all studied "The Biography of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period".
Maiyi gave exegesis to the "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and taught it to Duke Guan of Zhao Ren, who became the doctor of Xianwang in Hejian. His son Changqing was the eldest son of Zhang Yu in Qinghe, who was the eldest son of Zhang Yu.
Zhang Yu and Xiao Wangzhi served as censors at the same time. They lectured on "Zuo Shi" to Wangzhi many times. Wangzhi thought it was very good and wrote many letters praising him.
Later, he hoped to become the crown prince and tutor, and recommended Zhang Yu to Emperor Xuan. Zhang Yu was ordered to wait for an imperial edict, and he fell ill and died before he had time to consult him.
He passed it on to Yin Gengshi, who passed it on to his sons Yin Xian, Zhai Fangjin and Hu Chang.
Hu Chang passed it on to Liyang Jiahu Jijun, and he was appointed as a Lang by imperial edict during the reign of Emperor Ai. He passed it on to Cangwu Chen Qinzi Yi, who taught Wang Mang with "Zuo Shi" and became a general.
Liu Xin learned from Yin Xian and Zhai Fangjin.
From then on, everyone who explained "Zuo Shi" followed the teachings of Mai Hu and Liu Xin.
Praise says: From the time Emperor Wu established the Doctorate of the Five Classics, initiated the selection of disciples, set up scientific policies, and encouraged them with palace salary, until the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, for more than a hundred years, more and more people have passed on the scholarship, and the branches have also increased. Once the explanation has reached more than one million words, there are more than a thousand masters. This is probably a way to obtain wealth and salary.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
初，《书》唯有欧阳，《礼》后，《易》杨，《春秋》公羊而已。
至孝宣世，复立《大小夏侯尚书》，《大小戴礼》，《施》、《孟》、《梁丘易》，《穀梁春秋》。
至元帝世，复立《京氏易》，平帝时，又立《左氏春秋》、《毛诗》、逸《礼》、古文《尚书》，所以罔罗遗失，兼而存之，是在其中矣。
translation: 
At first, there was only Ouyang in "Book", "Hou" in "Li", Yang in "Yi", and Gongyang in "Spring and Autumn".
In the time of Xiaoxuan, he also established "Daxiahou Shangshu", "Daxiao Daili", "Shi", "Mencius", "Liangqiu Yi" and "Guliang Chunqiu".
In the reign of Emperor Yuan, the "Jingshi Yi" was also established. During the reign of Emperor Ping, Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, Mao's Poems, Yi's Rites, and the Ancient Chinese Book of Documents were also established to collect lost texts and coexist with them. This is the reason why.


