Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 君子遁世无闷，独立不惧。
孔子称长沮、桀溺隐者也。
古之隐者，或耻闻禅代，高让帝王，以万乘为垢辱，之死亡而无悔。
此则轻生重道，希世间出，隐之上者也。
或托仕监门，寄臣柱下，居易而以求其志，处污而不愧其色。
此所谓大隐隐于市朝，又其次也。
或裸体佯狂，盲喑绝世，弃礼乐以反道，忍孝慈而不恤。
此全身远害，得大雅之道，又其次也。
然同不失语默之致，有幽人贞吉矣。
与夫没身乱世，争利干时者，岂同年而语哉！《孟子》曰： 今人之于爵禄，得之若其生，失之若其死。
《淮南子》曰： 人皆鉴于止水，不鉴于流潦。
夫可以扬清激浊，抑贪止竞，其惟隐者乎！
自古帝王，莫不崇尚其道。
虽唐尧不屈巢、许，周武不降夷、齐；以汉高肆慢而长揖黄、绮，光武按法而折意严、周；自兹以来，世有人矣！
有梁之盛，继绍风猷。斯乃道德可宗，学艺可范，故以备《处士篇》云。
何点，字子晳，庐江灊人也。
祖尚之，宋司空。
父铄，宜都太守。
铄素有风疾，无故害妻，坐法死。
点年十一，几至灭性。
及长，感家祸，欲绝婚宦，尚之强为之娶琅邪王氏。
礼毕，将亲迎，点累涕泣，求执本志，遂得罢。
容貌方雅，博通群书，善谈论。
家本甲族，亲姻多贵仕。
translation: 
"Yi" says: A gentleman escapes from the world and does not feel bored. He is independent and does not know fear.
Confucius called Chang Ju and Jie Dun hermits.
Some hermits in ancient times were ashamed to hear about the Zen Dynasty, considered it noble to give up the throne, regarded the Wancheng throne as a disgrace, and went to death without any regrets.
This kind of person despises life and values ​​morality. He is rare in the world and appears occasionally. He is a superior hermit.
Some work as prison gates to support themselves, and work as officials under the pillars to support themselves. They live a simple life to realize their ambitions, and their status is low but they don't show any shame.
He was a so-called great hermit who hid in the city and court, and his status was lower than that of the superior hermits.
Some exposed their bodies, pretended to be crazy, blinded their eyes, made their voices hoarse, renounced the world, abandoned rituals and music to return to the right path, and suppressed the need to talk about filial piety, love, and family affection.
This kind of person protects himself, avoids harm, masters the way of escaping from the world, and his status is lower than that of the great hermit.
However, these people have not forgotten the key to keeping silent, staying on the right path in seclusion, and finally getting good results.
How can they and those who join in troubled times, compete for wealth and cater to the world, say the same thing? "Mencius" says: For people nowadays, regarding juelu, getting it is like gaining life, losing it is like losing life.
"Huainanzi said: People use still water as mirrors, not running water."
To be able to inspire righteousness, wash away filth, curb corruption and bend the law, and stop the pursuit of power and profit, I am afraid only a hermit can do it!
Since ancient times, there has been no emperor who did not respect the conduct of hermits.
Even Tang Yao couldn't make Chaofu and Xu You obey each other, and King Wu of Zhou couldn't make Boyi and Shuqi abandon their integrity and become ministers. Mo Gaozu was arrogant but respectful to Qili Ji and Xia Huang Gong. Mo Guang Wu Emperor governed the world according to the law but was submissive to Yan Guang and Zhou Dang. Since then, this has been the case for generations.
During the Liang Dynasty, the country prospered and inherited the moral education and governance of the previous generation. All the hermits whose morals were worthy of imitation and whose knowledge could serve as role models were included in the "Chushi Pian".
When the word Zixi comes, the Lujiang River sneaks in.
His grandfather, He Shangzhi, served as Sikong during the Song Dynasty.
His father, He Shuo, was appointed governor of Yidu.
He Shuo had always suffered from madness. He killed his wife for no reason and was executed according to the law.
He Dian was eleven years old at the time, and his life was almost destroyed by the grief of losing his parents.
When he grew up, He Dian was saddened by the disasters that had happened in his family and wanted not to get married or become an official, so He Shangzhi forced him to marry the Wang family of Langye.
All other etiquette had been completed, and when the wedding ceremony was about to take place, He Dian cried to He Shangzhi again and again, begging to be allowed to stick to his original wishes, so that the wedding was suspended.
He Dian has a dignified and comely appearance, is well-read, and is good at talking and discussing.
The He Dian family was originally a wealthy family, with many in-laws serving as high-ranking officials.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
点虽不入城府，而遨游人世，不簪不带，或驾柴车，蹑草矰，恣心所适，致醉而归，士大夫多慕从之，时人号为 通隐 。
兄求，亦隐居吴郡虎丘山。
求卒，点菜食不饮酒，讫于三年，要带减半。
宋泰始末，征太子洗马。齐初，累征中书郎、太子中庶子，并不就。
与陈郡谢瀹、吴国张融、会稽孔稚珪为莫逆友。
从弟遁，以东篱门园居之，稚珪为筑室焉。
园内有卞忠贞冢，点植花卉于冢侧，每饮必举酒酹之。
初，褚渊、王俭为宰相，点谓人曰： 我作《齐书赞》，云 渊既世族，俭亦国华；不赖舅氏，遑恤国家 。
王俭闻之，欲候点，知不可见，乃止。
豫章王嶷命驾造点，点从后门遁去。
司徒、竟陵王子良欲就见之，点时在法轮寺，子良乃往请，点角巾登席，子良欣悦无已，遗点嵇叔夜酒杯、徐景山酒铛。
点少时尝患渴痢，积岁不愈。
后在吴中石佛寺建讲，于讲所昼寝，梦一道人形貌非常，授丸一掬，梦中服之，自此而差，时人以为淳德所感。
性通脱，好施与，远近致遗，一无所逆，随复散焉。
尝行经硃雀门街，有自车后盗点衣者，见而不言，傍有人擒盗与之，点乃以衣施盗，盗不敢受，点命告有司，盗惧，乃受之，催令急去。
点雅有人伦识鉴，多所甄拔，知吴兴丘迟于幼童，称济阳江淹于寒素，悉如其言。
点既老，又娶鲁国孔嗣女，嗣亦隐者也。
点虽婚，亦不与妻相见，筑别室以处之，人莫喻其意也。
吴国张融少时免官，而为诗有高尚之言，点答诗曰： 昔闻东都日，不在简书前。
虽戏也，而融久病之。
及点后婚，融始为诗赠点曰： 惜哉何居士，薄暮遘荒淫。
点亦病之，而无以释也。
高祖与点有旧，及践阼，手诏曰： 昔因多暇，得访逸轨，坐修竹，临清池，忘今语古，何其乐也。
translation: 
Although He Dian did not enter the city or enter the government, he only wore household clothes, without hairpins or belts, and traveled among the people. Sometimes he drove a chariot and wore straw sandals. At that time, people called this point "Tongyin".
He Dian's brother He Qiu also lived in seclusion in Huqiu Mountain in Wu County.
After He Qiu's death, He Dian only ate vegetarian food and did not drink alcohol during the period of mourning for his brother. After the three-year mourning period was over, He Dian's waist circumference had been reduced by half.
In the early and late years of the Song and Tai Dynasties, the imperial court conscripted He Dian to serve as the prince to wash horses; in the early years of the Qi Dynasty, the court repeatedly recruited He Dian to serve as Zhongshulang and the prince's concubine, but none of them accepted the call.
He became close friends with Xie Man of Chen Jun, Zhang Rong of Wu State, and Kong Zhigui of Kuaiji.
He Dian's cousin, He Dun, gave He Dian a manor in Donglimen to live in, and Kong Zhigui built a house in the garden for He Dian.
There is Bian Zhongzhen's tomb in the garden. He planted flowers on the side of the tomb. Every time he drank, he must first sprinkle the wine on the ground to pay homage to Bian Zhongzhen.
At first, when Chu Yuan and Wang Jian were prime ministers, He Point said to people: I wrote "Qishu Praise", which said: "Chu Yuan is from a noble family, and Wang Jian is also a talented person in the country. Who can care about the country without relying on these close relatives and old ministers?"
When Wang Jian heard this, he originally wanted to visit Hedian, but later he realized that he could not see Hedian, so he gave up the plan.
Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang, drove to visit He Dian, but He Dian escaped through the back door.
Xiao Ziliang, King of Situ Jingling, wanted to condescend to meet He Dian. He Dian was at Falun Temple at that time. Xiao Ziliang went to Falun Temple to request to meet He Dian. He Dian dressed up as a hermit and sat at the table. Xiao Ziliang was so happy that he gave Ji Shuye's wine glass and Xu Jingshan's wine pot to He Dian.
He Diandian suffered from thirsty dysentery when he was young and was not cured for many years.
Later, He Dian established a forum at Wuzhong Shifo Temple. He once took a nap in the place where he lectured. He dreamed that a Taoist with a special appearance gave him a handful of pills. He swallowed the pills in his dream, and he recovered from his illness. People at that time believed that this was a blessing brought by honest virtue.
He Dian was free-spirited by nature, not constrained by trivial matters, and loved to give to others. He would not disobey anything given to him by people near or far, he would accept everything, and then give away what he received to others.
He Dian once passed by Zhuquemen Street in a car. Someone stole He Dian's clothes from the back of the car. He Dian saw it but kept silent. Someone caught the person stealing the clothes and handed it to He Dian. He Dian then gave the clothes to the person who stole the clothes. The person who stole the clothes did not dare to accept it. He Dian threatened to report it to the government. The person who stole the clothes was scared, so he accepted the clothes donated by He Dian. He Dian urged the person who stole the clothes to leave quickly.
He Dian is very discerning in identifying talents, and he has identified and recommended many people. When Wu Xingqiu Chi was still a child, he admired him very much; when Ji Yang Jiangyan was still in a low status, Bao Shu praised him.
Later, both of them showed their talents as He Dian said. When He Dian grew old, he married the daughter of Kong Si of Lu, who was also a hermit.
Although He Dian was married, he did not meet his wife and built another house to accommodate her. No one understood his intention to do this.
Zhang Rong of the State of Wu was dismissed from office when he was young. There are sentences in the poems he wrote that indicated that he did not seek official advancement. The poem "He Dian Reward" said: In the past, I heard about Sedu, but I was not in front of the bamboo slips.
This means that Zhang Rong was removed from his official position and was no longer busy with paperwork.
Although this is a joke, Rei Rong has always regarded writing poems as a problem. Later, when He Dian got married, Zhang Rongcai wrote another poem to He Dian, saying: What a pity, the dusk is so desolate.
Joking about Bao Wei's marriage incident in his later years. He Dian also regarded this poem as a problem in his heart, but he never found a chance to resolve it.
Gaozu and He Dian had a relationship. After Gaozu ascended the throne, he wrote an edict with his own hand and said: In the past, because I had more free time, I was able to associate with you. We sat together in the bamboo forest, perched on the clear pond, forgetting the troubles in front of us, and discussing ancient people and events. How happy it was.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
暂别丘园，十有四载，人事艰阻，亦何可言。
自应运在天，每思相见，密迩物色，劳甚山阿。
严光排九重，践九等，谈天人，叙故旧，有所不臣，何伤于高？文先以皮弁谒子桓，伯况以縠绡见文叔，求之往策，不无前例。
今赐卿鹿皮巾等。
后数日，望能入也。
点以巾褐引入华林园，高祖甚悦，赋诗置酒，恩礼如旧。
仍下诏曰： 前征士何点，高尚其道，志安容膝，脱落形骸，栖志窅冥。
朕日昃思治，尚想前哲；况亲得同时，而不与为政。
喉脣任切，必俟邦良，诚望惠然，屈居献替。
可征为侍中。
辞疾不赴。
乃复诏曰： 征士何点，居贞物表，纵心尘外，夷坦之风，率由自远。
往因素志，颇申宴言，眷彼子陵，情兼惟旧。
昔仲虞迈俗，受俸汉朝；安道逸志，不辞晋禄。
此盖前代盛轨，往贤所同。
可议加资给，并出在所，日费所须，太官别给。
既人高曜卿，故事同垣下。
天监三年，卒，时年六十八。
诏曰： 新除侍中何点，栖迟衡泌，白首不渝。
奄至殒丧，倍怀伤恻。
可给第一品材一具，赙钱二万、布五十匹。丧事所须，内监经理。
translation: 
It has been fourteen years since I temporarily bid farewell to my hometown. It is impossible to describe the difficulties and obstacles I have encountered.
Ever since I followed my destiny and ascended to the throne of God, I have often thought about meeting you. How is my health lately? On which mountain have I been tired?
In the past, Yan Guang pushed open the door of the palace, walked up the steps of the palace, talked with Emperor Guangwu about the ways of heaven and man, and reminisced about old feelings. What kind of behavior did he not obey the way of ministers? What was the hindrance to his noble conduct?
Now I will give you a deerskin scarf and other items.
I hope you can come to the palace in a few days.
When He Dian entered the Hualin Garden wearing a commoner's cloth turban and brown clothes, Emperor Gaozu was very happy. He hosted a banquet, wrote poems and gave gifts, and treated He Dian with the same favor and courtesy as before.
Then, Emperor Gaozu Xia Shao said: What is the purpose of recruiting soldiers? They should be noble and noble, not seeking official positions, content themselves in a humble room with a knee-high capacity, be wild and unrestrained, not constrained by their appearance, and express their feelings in seclusion.
From morning to night, I think about the way to govern the country and admire the philosophers of the previous generations; not to mention that I can live in the same era as the sages and philosophers, how can I not govern the country with the sages and philosophers.
The ministers close to the DPRK and China have high responsibilities and must be filled by outstanding talents in the country. I sincerely hope that the sage Hui Ran will be willing to come and take up a replaceable position.
Who should be recruited as servants?
Why should illness be used as a reason to refuse to serve as an official and should not be called up?
Emperor Gaozu then issued another edict: What is the purpose of recruiting scholars? The style of a gentleman who has his heart set outside the world, abides by the right way, follows his mind, is separated from the world, and is open-minded, all inherits from the ancient sages.
In the past, because we had the same ambitions, we had a cordial relationship. Just as Emperor Guangwu of the Han Dynasty missed Yan Ziling, I also cherished my old friend.
In the past, Zheng Zhong and Yu were transcendent, but they also accepted the salary from the Han Dynasty; Dai Andao also had the ambition to transcend the world, but he did not reject the salary from the Jin Dynasty.
These are all models of virtue and virtue in the previous dynasties, qualities shared by the sages of the past.
It should be considered what kind of funds should be allocated. All the funds should be provided by the local government, and the daily expenses needed should be allocated separately by the eunuch.
Since Hedian's virtue is higher than that of Yuan Yaoqing, he can be allocated to Yuanxia Valley based on old feelings just like Wei Taizu did to Yuan Yaoqing.
In the third year of Tianjian, he died at the age of sixty-eight.
Emperor Gaozu Xia Shao said: He Dian, the newly appointed servant, lived in seclusion from the world and placed his affection in Hengbi. His ambitions remained unchanged throughout his life.
He died suddenly. I feel so sad and sad.
You can give He Dian a coffin made of first-class wood, send 20,000 yuan, and fifty pieces of cloth to his family for the funeral. All the things needed for the funeral will be provided by the internal prison.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
又敕点弟胤曰： 贤兄征君，弱冠拂衣，华首一操。
心游物表，不滞近迹；脱落形骸，寄之远理。
性情胜致，遇兴弥高；文会酒德，抚际逾远。
朕膺箓受图，思长声教。
朝多君子，既贵成雅俗；野有外臣，宜弘此难进。
方赖清徽，式隆大业。
昔在布衣，情期早著，资以仲虞之秩，待以子陵之礼，听览暇日，角巾引见，窅然汾射，兹焉有托。
一旦万古，良怀震悼。
卿友于纯至，亲从凋亡；偕老之愿，致使反夺；缠绵永恨，伊何可任。
永矣柰何！ 点无子，宗人以其从弟耿子迟任为嗣。
胤，字子季，点之弟也。
年八岁，居忧哀毁若成人。既长好学。
师事沛国刘献，受《易》及《礼记》、《毛诗》，又入钟山定林寺听内典，其业皆通。
而纵情诞节，时人未之知也，唯献与汝南周颙深器异之。
起家齐秘书郎，迁太子舍人。
出为建安太守，为政有恩信，民不忍欺。
每伏腊放囚还家，依期而返。
入为尚书三公郎，不拜，迁司徒主簿。
注《易》，又解《礼记》，于卷背书之，谓为《隐义》。
累迁中书郎、员外散骑常侍、太尉从事中郎、司徒右长史、给事黄门侍郎、太子中庶子、领国子博士、丹阳邑中正。
尚书令王俭受诏撰新礼，未就而卒。又使特进张绪续成之，绪又卒；属在司徒竟陵王子良，子良以让胤，乃置学士二十人，佐胤撰录。
永明十年，迁侍中，领步兵校尉，转为国子祭酒。
郁林嗣位，胤为后族，甚见亲待。
累迁左民尚书、领骁骑、中书令、领临海、巴陵王师。
胤虽贵显，常怀止足。
建武初，已筑室郊外，号曰小山，恒与学徒游处其内。
至是，遂卖园宅，欲入东山，未及发，闻谢朏罢吴兴郡不还，胤恐后之，乃拜表辞职，不待报辄去。
明帝大怒，使御史中丞袁昂奏收胤，寻有诏许之。
胤以会稽山多灵异，往游焉，居若邪山云门寺。
初，胤二兄求、点并栖遁，求先卒，至是胤又隐，世号点为大山；胤为小山，亦曰东山。
永元中，征太常、太子詹事，并不就。
高祖霸府建，引胤为军谋祭酒，与书曰： 想恒清豫，纵情林壑，致足欢也。
既内绝心战，外劳物役，以道养和，履候无爽。
若邪擅美东区，山川相属，前世嘉赏，是为乐土。
translation: 
He also ordered Yuzhe's younger brother Yuhuang to say: "Brother Zhengjun Baoyan, my virtuous brother, has lived in seclusion since he was weak, and his conduct has remained unchanged until his twilight years."
He set his sights on things other than the world and did not pursue fame, fortune or wealth; he was dissolute and committed to pursuing profound philosophy.
He has an elegant temperament, which is reflected even more when he is interested; he is talented in literature and wine, and his lofty purpose is even more felt during the handover.
I have to accept the chart, become the emperor at the right moment, and want to carry forward the teachings.
There are many modest gentlemen in the court, which can make the elegant people and the secular people admire the gentleman's style; there are ministers who live in seclusion in the countryside, and they should also promote the character of not seeking official career.
I am about to rely on their elegant conversation to prosper the imperial industry.
In the past, when Hengyan was still an ordinary citizen, my friendship with him had already been revealed. I gave him a salary just like Emperor Mozhang treated Zheng Zhongyu, and treated him with courtesy like Emperor Guangwu treated Yan Ziling. On my free days when I was dealing with government affairs, I invited him to see him in common clothes. In the deep and secluded place where he lived, I provided him with food and supplies so that he could rely on him in life.
Suddenly he passed away, which really shocked me and mourned me.
You and Brother Tanwei have a very deep relationship. Now that your relatives have left this world, your wish to share the rest of your life can no longer be realized. How can I bear this lingering regret. What to do if things continue like this!
But Nian had no sons, and his clansmen considered He Ji, the son of He Dian's cousin He Ta, as Yu Yan's heir.
He Yin, whose courtesy name was Wang Ji, was He Dian's younger brother.
When he was eight years old, he mourned his parents and, like adults, his body was damaged by grief. As an adult, he loved learning.
He became a disciple of Peiguo Liu Shan and studied "Yi", "Book of Rites" and "Mao Shi"; he also went to Dinglin Temple in Zhongshan to study Buddhist scriptures. He learned all these things proficiently.
However, he was casual and informal. No one understood him at that time. Only Zhou Yong of Runan deeply valued him and thought he was a genius.
He Yin first served as Secretary Lang of Qi and moved to Prince Sheren.
He left the capital and served as the prefect of Jian'an. He emphasized kindness and trustworthiness in his administration, and the people could not bear to deceive him.
Every winter day, He Yin would release the prisoners home. These prisoners all returned as scheduled, and none of them took the opportunity to escape.
He Yin entered the capital and was appointed as the Third Duke of Shangshu. Before he was appointed, he was moved to the post of Situ's chief secretary.
He Yin annotated the "Book of Changes" and the "Book of Rites". The explanatory sentences were written on the back of the original book, so it is called "The Hidden Meaning of the Book of Rites".
He also accumulated merit and was moved to the post of Zhongshu Lang, a member of the Sanqi Changshi, a Taiwei as a Zhonglang, a Situ Youzhangshi, a Shilang of Huangmen, a concubine of the prince, a doctor of Guozi, and Zhongzheng of Danyang City.
Shangshu ordered Wang Jian to write a new etiquette in accordance with the emperor's order. Wang Jian died before he could finish it. The emperor ordered Zhang Xu to continue writing it. Zhang Xu died again. The emperor entrusted the task of continuing the writing to Xiao Ziliang, Prince of Jingling. Xiao Ziliang gave the task to He Yin. So the imperial court assigned twenty bachelors to He Yin to help him write the new etiquette.
In the 10th year of Yongming Dynasty, He Yin was moved to the position of servant, led the infantry school captain, and became the prince of the country to offer wine.
King Yu Lin succeeded to the throne as emperor, and because He Yin was a relative of the queen, he was favored and treated favorably by his relatives.
After accumulating meritorious service, he was moved to the post of Zuo Min Shangshu, leading Xiaoqi, Zhongshu Ling, and leading the divisions of King Linhai and King Baling.
Although He Yin was rich and powerful, he often wanted to resign and retire.
In the early years of Jianwu, he had built a house in the suburbs, which he called a hill. He often lived in the house with his Shilin friends.
When he arrived, He Yin sold his house and wanted to live in seclusion in Dongshan. Before he started to prepare for the affair, He Yin heard that Xie Quan would not return to the capital after being dismissed from the post of governor of Wuxing County. He was worried that Xie Li would live in seclusion in Dongshan, so he resigned and left the capital without waiting for a reply from the court.
Emperor Ming was very angry and ordered Sai'ang, the censor Zhongcheng, to report to arrest He Yin. Soon after, he asked Shao to allow Bao Huang to resign.
He Yin thought that the mountains in Kuaiji were magical, so he went there to visit and stayed at Yunmen Temple in Ruoye Mountain.
At first, He Yin's two elder brothers had already secluded themselves from the world, and He Qiu had passed away. By this time, He Yin was living in seclusion again. At that time, people called He Point a big mountain and He Yin a small mountain, also known as Dongshan.
During the Yongyuan period, the imperial court conscripted Pan Pan as Taichang, and Prince Zhan did not go to his post.
The Prince of Gaozu's vassal was established, and He Yin was selected to serve as an army advisor and to offer wine sacrifices. Emperor Gaozu wrote to He Yin: If you roam freely in the mountains and forests, you will definitely bring endless joy. I hope you will always be comfortable.
Since the heart has given up the pursuit of fame and fortune, it will no longer have the trouble of being manipulated by external things. Use Tao to maintain inner harmony, and no action will go against one's own will.
If Xie Mountain occupies the beautiful scenery in the east, and the mountains and rivers are connected, the previous generations would have appreciated the beautiful scenery of Jixiang, and Qianhuo is indeed a paradise.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
仆推迁簿官，自东徂西，悟言素对，用成睽阕，倾首东顾，曷日无怀。
畴昔欢遇，曳裾儒肆，实欲卧游千载，畋渔百氏，一行为吏，此事遂乖。
属以世道威夷，仍离屯故，投袂数千，克黜衅祸。
思得瞩卷谘款，寓情古昔，夫岂不怀，事与愿谢。
君清襟素托，栖寄不近，中居人世，殆同隐沦。
既俯拾青组，又脱屣硃黻。
但理存用舍，义贵随时，往识祸萌，实为先觉，超然独善，有识钦嗟。
今者为邦，贫贱咸耻，好仁由己，幸无凝滞。
比别具白，此未尽言。
今遣候承音息，矫首还翰，慰其引领。 胤不至。
高祖践阼，诏为特进、右光禄大夫。
手敕曰： 吾猥当期运，膺此乐推，而顾己蒙蔽，昧于治道。
虽复劬劳日昃，思致隆平，而先王遗范，尚蕴方策，自举之用，存乎其人。
兼以世道浇暮，争诈繁起，改俗迁风，良有未易。
自非以儒雅弘朝，高尚轨物，则汩流所至，莫知其限。
治人之与治身，独善之与兼济，得失去取，为用孰多。
吾虽不学，颇好博古，尚想高尘，每怀击节。
今世务纷乱，忧责是当，不得不屈道岩阿，共成世美。
必望深达往怀，不吝濡足。
今遣领军司马王果宣旨谕意，迟面在近。
translation: 
I moved around in the officialdom, working hard in the West, and I calmed down and wanted to have a long chat with my old friends, but due to mutual separation, we couldn't meet each other. I raised my head and looked up. How could I not miss you?
We used to get together happily and study together in school. I really want to study in school for a thousand years and read hundreds of books. Once I embark on an official career, this idea cannot be realized.
At a time when the world was in decline, the country fell into disasters one after another. Fortunately, thousands of brave warriors were able to defeat the murderers and eliminate the disasters.
I also wanted to hold a reading volume, ask for advice at any time, and put my feelings in the ancient people and ancient events. I also often miss you, but things go against my wishes.
You have an open mind and tranquil feelings. You live in the mountains and forests. Although you are in the world, it is almost like retreating.
After you obtain a high-ranking official position, you then resign.
Having different reasons for choosing and rejecting, advocating the meaning of following the trend of the times, being able to foresee future events, and identifying disasters are indeed prophetic, able to detach themselves from the world and take care of themselves, and knowledgeable people will naturally admire and sigh.
Now that you are politically prosperous and live in a prosperous country, everyone will feel ashamed if you are still in poverty and lowliness. The emperor is benevolent, and it is up to you to practice benevolence. I hope you will not hesitate anymore.
I have told you everything in my letters before, but I won’t tell you everything again.
Now I have sent a special person to wait for news from you. I am eagerly looking forward to your reply. I hope you can comfort my earnest expectations. He Yin refused to take up a post in the palace.
Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne and issued an edict to appoint He Yin as the Tejin and Youguanglu officials.
Emperor Gaozu personally wrote an order to He Yin saying: I am experiencing good luck, the people are happy to support me, and I have ascended to the throne. It's just that I am ignorant and not proficient in governing the country.
Even if he works hard day and night from morning to night, he still wants the empire to prosper and the world to be at peace. The examples left by the previous saint kings are only recorded in the classics. The choice of administration and the rejection of government orders are closely related to the employment of people.
In addition, the world has become thin and treacherous, and it is not easy to change customs.
If refined gentlemen cannot be used to promote government affairs and elegant standards can be used to standardize government decrees, then the country will fall into the rapids, and no one knows where it will drift.
Governing the people and cultivating oneself, taking good care of oneself and benefiting the world at the same time, choosing between gains and losses, which one has more functions?
Although I don't have much knowledge, I love to know a lot about ancient affairs. When I think of those noble scholars who have escaped from the world, I always admire them.
Nowadays, the world is in chaos, and I have a heavy responsibility on my shoulders. I have to ask you to put aside your plan to live in seclusion in the mountains and forests, and join me in realizing the beautiful cause of governing the world.
I hope you will deeply appreciate our friendship in the past and not be unable to stay because you are afraid of being tainted by the world.
Now send the leader, Sima Wangguo, to declare my will. Hope to meet you soon.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
果至，胤单衣鹿巾，执经卷，下床跪受诏书，就席伏读。
胤因谓果曰： 吾昔于齐朝欲陈两三条事，一者欲正郊丘，二者欲更铸九鼎，三者欲树双阙。
世传晋室欲立阙，王丞相指牛头山云： 此天阙也 ，是则未明立阙之意。
阙者，谓之象魏。
县象法于其上，浃日而收之。
象者，法也；魏者，当涂而高大貌也。
鼎者神器，有国所先，故王孙满斥言，楚子顿尽。
圆丘国郊，旧典不同。
南郊祠五帝灵威仰之类，圆丘祠天皇大帝、北极大星是也。
往代合之郊丘，先儒之巨失。
今梁德告始，不宜遂因前谬。
卿宜诣阙陈之。
果曰： 仆之鄙劣，岂敢轻议国典？此当敬俟叔孙生耳。
胤曰： 卿讵不遣传诏还朝拜表，留与我同游邪？
果愕然曰： 古今不闻此例。
胤曰： 《檀弓》两卷，皆言物始。
自卿而始，何必有例。
果曰： 今君遂当邈然绝世，犹有致身理不？
胤曰： 卿但以事见推，吾年已五十七，月食四斗米不尽，何容得有宦情？
昔荷圣王跂识，今又蒙旌贲，甚愿诣阙谢恩，但比腰脚大恶，此心不遂耳。
果还，以胤意奏闻，有敕给白衣尚书禄，胤固辞。
又敕山阴库钱月给五万，胤又不受。
乃敕胤曰： 顷者学业沦废，儒术将尽，闾阎搢绅，鲜闻好事。
吾每思弘奖，其风未移，当扆兴言为叹。
本欲屈卿暂出，开导后生，既属废业，此怀未遂，延伫之劳，载盈梦想。
理舟虚席，须俟来秋，所望惠然，申其宿抱耳。
translation: 
Wang Guo went to He Yin's place. He Yin was wearing court clothes but wearing a deerskin scarf commonly used by hermits. Holding a scripture in his hand, He Yin got off the couch and knelt down to take the Shao Shu. Then he returned to the couch to read the edict.
He Yin then said to Wang Mo: In the past, when I was in Manqu, I wanted to tell you two or three things. One was to revise the rituals of Jiaoqiu, the other was to recast the Jiuding, and the third was to build a double palace.
It is said that the Jin Dynasty wanted to build a palace. Prime Minister Wang pointed at Niutoushan and said: "The building is a natural palace." The emperor did not understand the meaning of building a palace.
Que is also called Xiang Wei.
Hang the country's legal provisions on the que and put them away after ten days.
Xiang means law; Wei means tall and standing in the middle of the road.
This is the reason why Que is also called Xiang Wei. The tripod is an artifact that symbolizes the majesty of the emperor. To have a country, one must first have a tripod. Therefore, Wang Sunman reprimanded Chu Zi for the importance of seeking the throne. Chu Zi was immediately speechless.
According to previous classics, there are differences between worshiping heaven in Yuanqiu and worshiping heaven in southern suburbs.
In the southern suburbs, sacrifices are made to gods such as the Five Emperors, and in the circular mound, sacrifices are made to the Emperor and the North Star.
In the past dynasties, they were collectively called Jiaoqiu. This was a major mistake made by the Confucian scholars of the previous generation.
Now that the Liang Dynasty's virtuous government has just begun, we should not follow the fallacies of the previous dynasty.
You should go to the palace to present the report.
Wang Guo said: "I am in a humble position and have poor talents. I dare not discuss the country's laws and regulations casually. This matter must be respectfully waited for a great scholar like Shusun Sheng to discuss."
He Yin said: Why don't you send the official who delivered the edict back to the court to pay tribute to the emperor, while you stay and travel with me in the mountains and forests?
Wang Guo was shocked and said: "I have never heard of such a precedent in ancient and modern times."
He Yin said: The two volumes of "Tan Gong" are all about the beginning of things.
Why does there have to be a precedent when you can do it first?
Wang Guo said: Now that you have transcended the world, do you still have the idea of ​​becoming an official and dedicating yourself to the king?
He Yin said: You can guess whether I will become an official just based on the actual situation. I am fifty-seven years old and can't even eat four buckets of rice a month. How can I still have the energy to serve as an official?
I was favored by the Holy King in the past, and now I am praised by the Holy King. I really want to rush to the palace to thank the emperor for his kindness, but my waist and legs are not flexible recently, so this wish cannot be realized.
Wang Guo returned to the capital and reported the main content of what He Yin had said to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu ordered that He Yin be given the title of Shangshu in Baiyi and receive his salary, but He Yin firmly refused.
Emperor Gaozu also ordered that He Yin be provided with 50,000 yuan per month from the Shanyin Treasury, but He Yin refused to accept it.
Gao Dan then issued an edict to Tan Zu, saying: Recently, the way of learning has been abandoned, Confucianism will be lost, and it is rare to hear that there are people who like to read in the families of aristocratic families and gentry.
I often want to vigorously encourage Confucianism, but the trend has not changed. I can only sigh in the court.
I wanted to feel sorry for you and temporarily come out to educate the younger generations so as to inherit the nearly abandoned Confucianism. My wish failed to come true, so I stretched my neck to look forward and thought about it at night.
The position in the imperial court is still vacant. I will wait until this autumn and hope that you will be willing to come and realize my long-cherished wish.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
卿门徒中经明行修，厥数有几？
且欲瞻彼堂堂，置此周行。
便可具以名闻，副其劳望。
又曰： 比岁学者殊为寡少，良由无复聚徒，故明经斯废。每一念此，为之慨然。
卿居儒宗，加以德素，当敕后进有意向者，就卿受业。
想深思诲诱，使斯文载兴。
于是遣何子朗、孔寿等六人于东山受学。
太守衡阳王元简深加礼敬，月中常命驾式闾，谈论终日。
胤以若邪处势迫隘，不容生徒，乃迁秦望山。
山有飞泉，西起学舍，即林成援，因岩为堵。
别为小阁室，寝处其中，躬自启闭，僮仆无得至者。
山侧营田二顷，讲隙从生徒游之。
胤初迁，将筑室，忽见二人著玄冠，容貌甚伟，问胤曰： 君欲居此邪？
乃指一处云： 此中殊吉。
忽不复见，胤依其言而止焉。
寻而山发洪水，树石皆倒拔，唯胤所居室岿然独存。
元简乃命记室参军钟嵘作《瑞室颂》，刻石以旌之。
及元简去郡，入山与胤别，送至都赐埭，去郡三里，因曰： 仆自弃人事，交游路断，自非降贵山薮，岂容复望城邑？
此埭之游，于今绝矣。
执手涕零。
何氏过江，自晋司空充并葬吴西山。
胤家世年皆不永，唯祖尚之至七十二。
胤年登祖寿，乃移还吴，作《别山诗》一首，言甚凄怆。
至吴，居虎丘西寺讲经论，学徒复随之，东境守宰经途者，莫不毕至。
translation: 
How many of your disciples are proficient in classics and have good moral conduct?
I want to see their dignified appearance and select them to serve as officials in the imperial court.
You can submit their names to me immediately, and I hope you can comply with my request.
He also said: In recent years, there have been very few scholars. It is really because students are no longer gathered to teach the classics, so the method of recruiting scholars by clarifying the classics and shooting strategies has been abandoned. Every time I think about sending a few scholars, I feel very sad.
You are the master of Confucianism, and because of your moral character, I will order young people who are aspiring to Confucianism to come to you and learn Confucian knowledge from you.
I hope you will give them some consideration and teach them, so that the ritual and music education will be revitalized from now on.
Emperor Gaozu then sent six people, including He Zilang and Kong Shou, to study at He Yin's place in Shushan.
Xiao Yuanjian, the prefect of Hengyang, respected He Yin very much and treated him with courtesy. He often drove to He Yin's house every month and talked with him all day long.
He Yin moved to Taiwangye because the terrain of Ruoxie Mountain was too narrow to accommodate students.
There is a waterfall on the mountain, and Bao Leg built the school to the west of the waterfall. The mountain forest is just like the school's garden fence, and the mountain rock is just like the school wall.
He Yin built a small pavilion in the school building. He sat and slept in it and opened and closed the door himself. No servant boy could enter the small pavilion.
He Yin bought another acreage of land on the side of the mountain, and took his students to visit this place during his free time.
When He Yin just moved to Qinwangshan, he was preparing to build a house. Suddenly he saw two men in black hats with very majestic looks. They asked He Yin: Do you want to live here?
So he pointed to a piece of land and said to He Yin: "It is very auspicious to send a piece of land."
Suddenly both of them disappeared. He Yin chose the foundation site of the house according to their words.
Soon a flash flood broke out. Rocks were washed away and trees were knocked down. Only the house where He Yin lived remained intact.
Xiao Yuanjian went to the Mingji Office to join the army and Zhong Rong wrote "Ode to the Auspicious Room" and carved it on a stone to praise it.
When Xiao Yuan left Dukkendai briefly, he went into the mountains to say goodbye to Bao Yin, and took Bao Yin back to the city with Bao Legs until he was sent to Ducidai, three miles away from the county town. He said goodbye and said: Ever since I gave up worldly affairs, my family's friendship has been interrupted. If you hadn't condescended to come to the mountains and fields, how could I have come so close to the county town again?
On Ducidai, my footprints will never be seen again from now on.
The two held hands and shed tears.
After crossing the Yangtze River in the south, people of the He family were buried in Wuxi Mountain for generations, starting from Sikong Hechong of Jin Dynasty.
Several generations of He Yin's family did not live long. Only his grandfather He Shangzhi lived to be seventy-two years old.
When He Yin reached the age of seventy-two, he left Qinwang Mountain and moved to Wu. He composed a poem "Farewell to the Mountain" with very sad and sad words.
After arriving, He Yin lectured on Confucian classics at the West Temple in Xuqiu, and the students all studied with him. The eastern governors passed by Wu on their way to and from Wu, and they all came to the temple to listen to He Yin's lectures.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
胤常禁杀，有虞人逐鹿，鹿径来趋胤，伏而不动。
又有异鸟如鹤，红色，集讲堂，驯狎如家禽焉。
初，开善寺藏法师与胤遇于秦望，后还都，卒于钟山。
其死日，胤在般若寺，见一僧授胤香奁并函书，云 呈何居士 ，言讫失所在。
胤开函，乃是《大庄严论》，世中未有。
又于寺内立明珠柱，乃七日七夜放光，太守何远以状启。
昭明太子钦其德，遣舍人何思澄致手令以褒美之。
中大通三年，卒，年八十六。
先是胤疾，妻江氏梦神人告之曰： 汝夫寿尽。既有至德，应获延期，尔当代之。
妻觉说焉，俄得患而卒，胤疾乃瘳。
至是胤梦一神女并八十许人，并衣帢，行列至前，俱拜床下，觉又见之，便命营凶具。
既而疾动，因不自治。
胤注《百法论》、《十二门论》各一卷，注《周易》十卷、《毛诗总集》六卷、《毛诗隐义》十卷、《礼记隐义》二十卷、《礼答问》五十五卷。
子撰，亦不仕，庐陵王辟为主簿，不就。
阮孝绪，字士宗，陈留尉氏人也。
父彦之，宋太尉从事中郎。
孝绪七岁，出后从伯胤之。
胤之母周氏卒，有遗财百余万，应归孝绪，孝绪一无所纳，尽以归胤之姊琅邪王晏之母，闻者咸叹异之。
幼至孝，性沉静，虽与儿童游戏，恒以穿池筑山为乐。
年十三，遍通《五经》。
十五，冠而见其父，彦之诫曰： 三加弥尊，人伦之始。
宜思自勖，以庇尔躬。
translation: 
He Yin often forbids killing. A man from Yu was chasing a deer. The deer kept running towards He Yin and lay motionless beside him.
There is also a strange bird, shaped like a crane and red, which gathers in the lecture hall. It is tame and friendly to people, just like a domestic fowl.
In the past, Master Zang of Kaishan Temple met He Yin in Qinwang Mountain. Later, he returned to the capital and died in Zhongshan.
On the day of his death, He Yin was in Prajna Temple and saw a monk handing him a dowry containing an incense burner and a letter, and said "Submit it to He Ju". After saying that, the person disappeared.
He Yin opened the letter, and it turned out to be "The Great Solemnity" that was not found in the world.
He Yin also erected a pearl pillar in the temple. The pillar shone continuously for seven days and seven nights. The prefect He Yuan reported the situation to the court.
Prince Zhaoming admired He Yin's virtues and sent his servant He Sicheng to send a letter praising He Yin.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, He Yin died at the age of eighty-six.
In the past, He Yin was ill. He Yin's wife Jiang Shi dreamed that a man of God told her: Your husband's life is over, but he has the most beautiful virtues and should be rewarded with a longer life. You will die in your husband's place.
Jiang woke up and told what happened in his dream. Soon after, he fell ill and died, but he recovered.
Before he died, He Yin dreamed of a group of goddesses, more than eighty of them, all dressed in clam robes, walking neatly in front of He Yin, and bowing to He Zu under the bed. After waking up, He Yin saw the scene again, so he ordered his family to prepare funeral supplies.
Soon He Yin's condition worsened and he died.
He Yin annotated one volume each of "Baifa Lun" and "Twelve Gates", ten volumes of Yi Yi, six volumes of "Collection of Mao's Poems", ten volumes of "The Hidden Meaning of Mao's Poems", twenty volumes of "The Hidden Meaning of the Book of Rites", and fifty-five volumes of "The Questions and Answers on Rites".
He Yin's son He Zhuan also did not enter the official career. King Luling summoned him to be the chief official, but he refused to take up the post.
Ruan Xiaoxu, courtesy name Shizong, was born in Chenliuwei family.
His father, Yanzhi, served as a lieutenant in the Song Dynasty and worked as a lieutenant.
When Ruan Xiaoxu was seven years old, Ruan Xiaoxu adopted his uncle Ruan Yinzhi as his heir.
Ruan Yinzhi's mother, the Zhou family, passed away and left more than one million yuan in property. Ruan Xiaoxu should inherit all the property, but Ruan Xiaoxu refused to accept it at all. He gave all the inheritance to Ruan Yinzhi's sister, the mother of King Yan of Langxie. Everyone who heard the news was amazed.
Ruan Xiaoxu has been very filial since he was a child. He is calm and quiet by nature. Even if he plays games with children, he often digs ponds and builds mountains as entertainment.
At the age of thirteen, he was proficient in all the Five Classics.
After the crowning ceremony at the age of fifteen, Ruan Xiaoxu went to see his father Ruan Yanzhi. Ruan Yanzhi told Ruan Xiaoxu: After the crowning ceremony, your status becomes more important. This is the beginning of becoming an adult and participating in personnel affairs.
You should always think of yourself and encourage yourself to protect yourself.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
答曰： 愿迹松子于瀛海，追许由于穹谷，庶保促生，以免尘累。
自是屏居一室，非定省未尝出户，家人莫见其面，亲友因呼为 居士 。
外兄王晏贵显，屡至其门，孝绪度之必至颠覆，常逃匿不与相见。
曾食酱美，问之，云是王家所得，便吐飧覆醢。
及晏诛，其亲戚咸为之惧，孝绪曰： 亲而不党，何坐之及？
竟获免。
义师围京城，家贫无以爨，僮妾窃邻人樵以继火。
孝绪知之，乃不食，更令撤屋而炊。所居室唯有一鹿床，竹树环绕。
天监初，御史中丞任昉寻其兄履之，欲造而不敢，望而叹曰： 其室虽迩，其人甚远。
为名流所钦尚如此。
十二年，与吴郡范元琰俱征，并不到。
陈郡袁峻谓之曰： 往者，天地闭，贤人隐；今世路已清，而子犹遁，可乎？
答曰： 昔周德虽兴，夷、齐不厌薇蕨；汉道方盛，黄、绮无闷山林。
为仁由己，何关人世！
况仆非往贤之类邪？
后于钟山听讲，母王氏忽有疾，兄弟欲召之。
母曰： 孝绪至性冥通，必当自到。
果心惊而返，邻里嗟异之。
合药须得生人参，旧传钟山所出，孝绪躬历幽险，累日不值。
忽见一鹿前行，孝绪感而随后，至一所遂灭，就视，果获此草。
母得服之，遂愈。
时皆叹其孝感所致。
时有善筮者张有道谓孝绪曰： 见子隐迹而心难明，自非考之龟蓍，无以验也。
及布卦，既揲五爻，曰： 此将为《咸》，应感之法，非嘉遁之兆。
translation: 
Ruan Xiaoxu replied: I am willing to follow Chi Songzi's footsteps to Yinghai and imitate Xu You's behavior to hide in the deep valley, hoping to save my short life and avoid the burden of the world.
From then on, Ruan Xiaoxu avoided staying in a room alone. Except for visiting his parents, he did not give birth. No one at home saw him, so his relatives and friends called him "householder".
Ruan Xiaoxu's cousin Wang Yan was in a prominent position and visited Ruan Xiaoxu's home many times. Ruan Xiaoxu estimated that Wang Yan would be defeated, so he often hid himself and avoided seeing Wang Yan.
Ruan Xiaoxu once ate a kind of meat sauce and thought it was delicious. He asked about the origin of the meat sauce. When he heard that it came from Wang Yan's family, he vomited what he had eaten and threw away the meat sauce.
Wang Yan was executed for his crime, and all the relatives of the Wang family were afraid of him. Ruan Xiaoxu said: Although we are relatives, we are not in the same party. How can we sit together?
It turned out that we didn't fall into this disaster.
When the rebel army attacking Donghun Hou besieged the capital, Ruan Xiaoxu's family had no firewood to cook because of poverty, so the male and female servants stole firewood from their neighbors to cook.
After Ruan Xiaoxu found out, he refused to eat, and then ordered his servants to remove the wood from the house to cook. There is only a deer bed in the house Ruan Xiaoxu lives in, and the house is surrounded by bamboo trees.
In the early years of Tianjian, Yushi Zhongcheng Renban was looking for Ruan Xiaoxu's brother Ruan Luzhi. I also wanted to take the opportunity to visit Ruan Xiaoxu, but I didn't dare to go. Finally, I looked at Ruan Xiaoxu's house and sighed and said: Although the house is close to us, that man's virtue is much higher than ours.
Ruan Xiaoxu was admired and respected by famous people to such an extent.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, Ruan Xiaoxu and Wujun Fan Yuanyan were drafted at the same time, but neither of them answered the call.
Yuan Jun of Chen County said to Ruan Xiaoxu: In the past, the world was blocked and wise men retired; now the world is clear and clear, but you are still living in seclusion. Is this okay?
Ruan Xiaoxu replied: Although the virtues of the Zhou Dynasty were prosperous in the past, Boyi and Shuqi did not eat Zhou millet and would rather eat ferns. The Han Dynasty was prosperous, but Xia Huanggong and Qiliji still enjoyed living in seclusion in the mountains and forests.
Practicing benevolence depends entirely on yourself, what does it have to do with the world!
Do you think I am not the same type of person as the sages of the past?
Later, Ruan Xiaoxu listened to a lecture in Zhongshan. His mother Wang suddenly fell ill, and Ruan Xiaoxu's brother wanted to call him back.
Ruan Xiaoxu's mother said: "Cunxu has a secret nature, and he will definitely come back by himself."
As expected, Ruan Xiaoxu was so frightened by Zhongshan that he rushed home. The neighbors were amazed at what he had done.
Ruan Xiaoxu's mother must make medicine with fresh ginseng. It was said that Zhongshan produced ginseng, so Ruan Xiaoxu personally went over the mountains and deep valleys to search for it, but could not find it after many days.
Suddenly he saw a deer walking forward, and the doctor seemed to sense it, so he followed the deer forward. When he reached a place, the deer suddenly disappeared. Ruan Xiaoxu caught up and found the ginseng grass he wanted.
His mother mixed the medicine with ginseng and took it, and the disease was cured.
At that time, people lamented about this, thinking that it was because Ruan Xiaoxu's filial piety moved the gods.
At that time, there was a man named Zhang Youdao who was good at divination. He said to Ruan Xiaoxu: I saw your actions of seclusion, but your thoughts are difficult for others to understand. If you don't use divination method to test, there is no way to prove it.
When Zhang Youdao arranged the hexagrams for Ruan Xiaoxu, he had already listed five lines. Zhang Youdao said: Judging from this situation, the "Xian Gua" will appear. This is a manifestation of induction, not a sign of Jiayun.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
孝绪曰： 安知后爻不为上九？
果成《遁卦》。
有道叹曰： 此谓 肥遁无不利。 象实应德，心迹并也。
孝绪曰： 虽获《遁卦》，而上九爻不发，升遐之道，便当高谢许生。
乃著《高隐传》，上自炎、黄，终于天监之末，斟酌分为三品，凡若干卷。
又著论云： 夫至道之本，贵在无为；圣人之迹，存乎拯弊。
弊拯由迹，迹用有乖于本，本既无为，为非道之至。
然不垂其迹，则世无以平；不究其本，则道实交丧。
丘、旦将存其迹，故宜权晦其本；老、庄但明其本，亦宜深抑其迹。
迹既可抑，数子所以有余；本方见晦，尼丘是故不足。
非得一之士，阙彼明智；体二之徒，独怀鉴识。
然圣已极照，反创其迹；贤未居宗，更言其本。
良由迹须拯世，非圣不能；本实明理，在贤可照。
若能体兹本迹，悟彼抑扬，则孔、庄之意，其过半矣。
南平元襄王闻其名，致书要之，不赴。
孝绪曰： 非志骄富贵，但性畏庙堂。
若使籞軿可骖，何以异夫骥騄。
初，建武末，青溪宫东门无故自崩，大风拔东宫门外杨树。
或以问孝绪，孝绪曰： 青溪皇家旧宅。
齐为木行，东者木位，今东门自坏，木其衰矣。
鄱阳忠烈王妃，孝绪之姊。
王尝命驾，欲就之游，孝绪凿垣而逃，卒不肯见。
诸甥岁时馈遗，一无所纳。
人或怪之，答云： 非我始愿，故不受也。
其恒所供养石像，先有损坏，心欲治补，经一夜忽然完复，众并异之。
大同二年，卒，时年五十八。
门徒诔其德行，谥曰文贞处士。
translation: 
Medical doctor Zhong said: How do you know that the next line will not appear in the upper nine Yang Yao?
Ji Zhidao continued to arrange the hexagrams, and finally "Zhu Hexagram" appeared.
Zhang Youdao sighed and said: This image says that there is no disadvantage in fat escape. The hexagram corresponds to your virtue, and your heart and actions are consistent.
Ruan Xiaoxu said: Although the "Ei Gua" was obtained, the upper nine Yang Yao did not appear. The way to live in seclusion is to secede from the world like Xu You.
Zao Buxu then wrote the "Biography of Gao Yin", starting from Yan and Huang to the biography of the hermit in the last years of Zuo Jian, and rated these people as third grade, with a total of several volumes.
Ruan Xiaoxu also wrote "Gao Yin Zhuan Lun" and said: The highest foundation of Tao lies in advocating inaction; the actions of the saints are to save the evils of the times.
To remedy current problems, we must take action. Relying on action to achieve results violates the foundation of Tao. Since the foundation of Tao is advocating inaction, taking action is not the highest criterion of Tao.
However, if we do not take action, the world will not be stable; if we do not implement the fundamentals of Tao, Tao will eventually decline.
Confucius and Ji Dan wanted to insist on taking action, so they temporarily concealed the foundation of Tao; Lao Dan and Zhuang Zhou should conceal their actions as long as they promoted the foundation of Tao.
Actions can be concealed, which is why Lao and Zhuang felt free and at ease; fundamentals can be concealed, so Confucius felt powerless in busying with worldly affairs.
If a scholar cannot grasp one aspect, he will lack wise insights; if he can understand both aspects, he will have a unique ability to examine and discern.
In this way, when the saint has enlightened the world, he will turn around to expand the influence of his actions; before the wise man is in a position of being respected, he should promote the foundation of Tao.
The truth is that actions should remedy the current ills, and those who are not saints cannot undertake this task; principles should be used to explain principles, and wise men can know and show them to the world.
If you can understand the relationship between roots and actions, and understand the principle of ups and downs, then you can understand most of the thoughts of Confucius and Zhuang Zhou.
King Yuanxiang of Nanping heard about Ruan Xiaoxu's reputation and wrote a letter to invite Ruan Xiaoxu, but Ruan Xiaoxu refused to go.
Ruan Xiaoxu said: It's not that I mean to show arrogance in front of noble people, it's just that I'm naturally afraid of seeing the emperor.
If musk deer can drive, what is the difference between them and fine horses?
In the past, during the last years of Jianwu's reign, the Shumen of Qingxi Palace collapsed on its own for no apparent reason, and strong winds blew up the poplar trees outside the Shugong Gate.
Someone asked Ruan Xiaoxu about the incident. Ruan Xiaoxu said: Qingxi Palace was the emperor's original residence.
The five elements of Qi belong to wood, and the east is the direction of wood in the five elements. Now that Shumen collapses on its own, I am afraid that wood is about to decline.
Princess Zhonglie of Poyang is Ruan Xiaoxu's sister.
The King of Poyang once wanted to drive to Ruan Jizhong for fun, but Ruan Xiaoxu broke open the wall and escaped, never wanting to meet the King of Poyang.
Ruan Xiaoxu refused to accept any gifts from his nephews during the holidays.
Some people were surprised that Ruan Xiaoxu did this. Ruan Xiaoxu replied: It is not my original wish to receive the gift, so I do not accept it.
The stone statue that Ruan Xiaoxu worshiped all year round was damaged. Ruan Xiaoxu wanted to repair it. After one night, the stone statue suddenly became intact.
Everyone was surprised by this. In the second year of Datong, Ruan Xiaoxu died at the age of fifty-eight.
Ruan Xiaozhong's disciples listed Ruan Xiaoxu's virtues one after another and determined that his title was Wenzhen.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
所著《七录》等书二百五十卷，行于世。
陶弘景，字通明，丹阳秣陵人也。
初，母梦青龙自怀而出，并见两天人手执香炉来至其所，已而有娠，遂产弘景。
幼有异操。
年十岁，得葛洪《神仙传》，昼夜研寻，便有养生之志。
谓人曰： 仰青云，睹白日，不觉为远矣。
及长，身长七尺四寸，神仪明秀，朗目疏眉，细形长耳。
读书万余卷。
善琴棋，工草隶。
未弱冠，齐高帝作相，引为诸王侍读，除奉朝请。
虽在硃门，闭影不交外物，唯以披阅为务。
朝仪故事，多取决焉。
永明十年，上表辞禄，诏许之，赐以束帛。
及发，公卿祖之于征虏亭，供帐甚盛，车马填咽，咸云宋、齐以来，未有斯事。
朝野荣之。
于是止于句容之句曲山。
恒曰： 此山下是第八洞宫，名金坛华阳之天，周回一百五十里。
昔汉有咸阳三茅君得道，来掌此山，故谓之茅山。
乃中山立馆，自号华阳隐居。
始从东阳孙游岳受符图经法。
遍历名山，寻访仙药。
每经涧谷，必坐卧其间，吟咏盘桓，不能已已。
时沈约为东阳郡守，高其志节，累书要之，不至。
弘景为人，圆通谦谨，出处冥会，心如明镜，遇物便了，言无烦舛，有亦辄觉。
建武中，齐宜都王铿为明帝所害，其夜，弘景梦铿告别，因访其幽冥中事，多说秘异，因著《梦记》焉。
永元初，更筑三层楼，弘景处其上，弟子居其中，宾客至其下，与物遂绝，唯一家僮得侍其旁。
特爱松风，每闻其响，欣然为乐。
有时独游泉石，望见者以为仙人。
性好著述，尚奇异，顾惜光景，老而弥笃。
尤明阴阳五行，风角星算，山川地理，方图产物，医术本草。
著《帝代年历》，又尝造浑天象，云 修道所须，非止史官是用 。
义师平建康，闻议禅代，弘景援引图谶，数处皆成 梁 字，令弟子进之。
高祖既早与之游，及即位后，恩礼逾笃，书问不绝，冠盖相望。
天监四年，移居积金东涧。
善辟谷导引之法，年逾八十而有壮容。
深慕张良之为人，云 古贤莫比 。
曾梦佛授其菩提记，名为胜力菩萨。
乃诣鄮县阿育王塔自誓，受五大戒。
后太宗临南徐州，钦其风素，召至后堂，与谈论数日而去，太宗甚敬异之。
大通初，令献二刀于高祖，其一名养胜，一名成胜，并为佳宝。
大同二年，卒，时年八十五。
颜色不变，屈申如恒。
translation: 
His "Qi Lu" and other books totaled 250 volumes and were circulated in the world.
Tao Hongjing, courtesy name Tongming, was born in Moling, Danyang.
It turned out that Tao Hongjing's mother dreamed that a green dragon came out of her arms, and at the same time she saw two gods coming to her place holding incense burners. Soon after, Tao's mother became pregnant and gave birth to Tao Hongjing.
Tao Hongjing has a unique talent since he was a child.
When he was ten years old, he got the Biography of Immortals written by Ge Hong, and he studied it day and night, and then he came up with the idea of ​​​​preserving health and longevity.
Tao Hongjing said to people: Looking up at the blue clouds and seeing the sun, it doesn't even feel far away.
When he grew up, Tao Hongjing was seven feet four inches tall, with a clean and beautiful expression, bright eyes, broad eyebrows, and long ears.
Tao Hongjing read more than 10,000 volumes.
He is good at playing the piano and chess, and is good at cursive and official script.
When Emperor Gaozu of Qi became the prime minister, Tao Hongjing, who was not yet in his prime, was selected to serve as the attendant of the kings and was awarded the title of court invitation.
Although Tao Hongjing lived in an imperial family, he stayed alone behind closed doors, did not interact with outsiders, and just studied.
The etiquette system of the imperial court largely depended on Tao Hongjing.
In the tenth year of Yongming's reign, Tao Hongjing resigned from his official position. The emperor issued an edict allowing him to resign and giving him a bunch of silk.
When Tao Hongjing left the capital, the officials of the imperial court gave him a farewell party at Zhenglu Pavilion. The banquet was so grand that the carriages and horses of the farewell blocked the road. Everyone said that since the Song and Qi Dynasties, there has never been such a grand farewell scene.
Both the government and the public consider this an honor.
So Tao Hongjing settled in Juqu Mountain in Jurong.
Tao Hongjing often said: At the foot of this mountain is the eighth cave palace, called Jintan Huayangzhitian, with a circumference of one hundred and fifty miles.
Once upon a time in the Mo Dynasty, there was a Sanmao Lord from Xianyang who succeeded in Taoism and came to take charge of this mountain, so this mountain is called Maoshan.
So Tao Hongjing built a house in the middle of the mountain and called it Huayang Seclusion.
Tao Hongjing began to learn the Talisman Sutra from Sun Youyue of Shuyang.
He traveled to famous mountains in search of elixirs.
Whenever he passes by the stream valley, Tao Hongjing must linger in it, chanting and sightseeing without stopping.
At that time, Shen Yue was the governor of Shuyang County. He admired Tao Hongjing's moral integrity and sent letters to Tao Hongjing many times to invite him, but Tao Hongjing did not agree.
Tao Hongjing is a man who understands things, is flexible in dealing with things, and treats others with humility and courtesy. Whether he is serving as an official or retiring, his actions meet this standard.
You can make decisions immediately when encountering problems, speak without being procrastinated and verbose, and feel them immediately even if they happen. During the Jianwu period, Xiao Keng, the king of Yidu in Qi, was killed by Emperor Ming. On the night when Xiao Keng was killed, Tao Hongjing dreamed that Xiao Keng came to say goodbye to him. Tao Hongjing asked Xiao Keng about things in the underworld. Xiao Keng told many secret and strange things in the underworld. Tao Hongjing wrote "Dream Notes" based on these things.
In the early years of Yongyuan, Tao Hongjing built another three-story building. Tao Hongjing lived on the top floor, his disciples lived on the middle floor, and guests stayed on the lower floor when they came. Tao Hongjing cut off contact with the rest of the world from then on, and had only one servant boy at home to serve him.
Tao Hongjing especially loved the sound of wind in the pine forest. Every time he heard the sound of the wind blowing in the pine forest, he felt happy.
Tao Hongjing sometimes played alone by the springs and rocks. People who saw him from a distance thought he was an immortal.
Tao Hongjing was fond of writing by nature, and he advocated strange things in his writings. He cherishes time, and will cherish it even more as he grows older.
He is especially proficient in yin and yang and the five elements, wind angle astrology, mountain geography, surrounding products, and medical materia medica.
Tao Hongjing wrote the "Almanac of the Emperors" and once created the Huntian phenomenon. Tao Hongjing said that the Huntian phenomenon was not only used by historians, but was also necessary for Bi Dao.
After the rebel army against Donghun Hou pacified Jiankang, Tao Hongjing heard that the Hua Dynasty was being discussed, so he quoted the prophecy, and after several deductions, it became the character "Liang", so Tao Hongjing ordered his disciples to submit the deduction results to the court.
Emperor Gaozu had long been friends with Tao Hongjing. After he ascended the throne, his favor and courtesy to Tao Hongjing became even more generous and considerate. He and Tao Hongjing exchanged letters continuously and sent envoys to visit Tao Hongjing one after another.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Tao Hongjing moved to Jijinshujian.
Tao Hongjing is good at the health-preserving technique of bigu guidance. Although he is over eighty years old, he still maintains a healthy appearance.
Tao Hongjing deeply admired Zhang Liang's character and said that Zhang Liang was a Japanese man. Among the ancient sages, no one could compare with him.
Tao Hongjing once dreamed that the Buddha taught him the Bodhisattva. The god and Buddha said that his name was Shengli Bodhisattva.
Tao Hongjing then went to Ashoka Pagoda in Deng County to swear by himself and receive the five precepts.
Later, Taizong came to southern Xuzhou. He admired Tao Hongjing's style and qualities, so he called Tao Hongjing into the back hall. The two talked together for many days before Tao Hongjing left. Taizong respected Tao Hongjing very much and thought he was different from ordinary people.
In the early years of Datong, Tao Hongjing presented two swords to Emperor Gaozu. One sword was named Shansheng and the other was named Weisheng. They were both exquisite treasures.
In the second year of Datong, Tao Hongjing passed away at the age of eighty-one.
After his death, Tao Hongjing's appearance did not change, and his body flexed and stretched as usual.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
诏赠中散大夫，谥曰贞白先生，仍遣舍人监护丧事。
弘景遗令薄葬，弟子遵而行之。
诸葛璩，字幼玟，琅邪阳都人，世居京口。
璩幼事征士关康之，博涉经史。
复师征士臧荣绪。荣绪著《晋书》，称璩有发擿之功，方之壶遂。
齐建武初，南徐州行事江祀荐璩于明帝曰： 璩安贫守道，悦《礼》敦《诗》，未尝投刺邦宰，曳裾府寺，如其简退，可以扬清厉俗。
请辟为议曹从事。
帝许之，璩辞不去。
陈郡谢朓为东海太守，教曰： 昔长孙东组，降龙丘之节；文举北辎，高通德之称。
所以激贪立懦，式扬风范。
处士诸葛璩，高风所渐，结辙前修。
岂怀珠披褐，韬玉待价？
将幽贞独往，不事王侯者邪？
闻事亲有啜菽之窭，就养寡藜蒸之给，岂得独享万钟，而忘兹五秉？
可饷谷百斛。
天监中，太守萧琛、刺史安成王秀、鄱阳王恢并礼异焉。
璩丁母忧毁瘠，恢累加存问。
服阕，举秀才，不就。
璩性勤于诲诱，后生就学者日至，居宅狭陋，无以容之，太守张友为起讲舍。
璩处身清正，妻子不见喜愠之色。
旦夕孜孜，讲诵不辍，时人益以此宗之。
七年，高祖敕问太守王份，份即具以实对，未及征用，是年卒于家。
璩所著文章二十卷，门人刘曒集而录之。
沈顗，字处默，吴兴武康人也。
父坦之，齐都官郎。
顗幼清静有至行，慕黄叔度、徐孺子之为人。
读书不为章句，著述不尚浮华。
translation: 
The emperor sent Shao as a gift to Dr. Zhongsan and Mi to Mr. Zhenbai, and then sent a layman to supervise the funeral.
Tao Hongjing left instructions to carry out a modest burial, and his disciples followed the instructions.
Zhuge Gu, whose courtesy name is Youwen, was born in Yangdu, Langxie. His family had lived in Jingkou for generations.
When Zhuge Gu was young, he had the conscript Guan Kangzhi as his teacher, and he extensively studied classics and history.
Later, he took Zhengshi Xian Rongxu as his teacher, and Zang Rongxu wrote "Book of Jin". He praised Zhuge Can for his contribution to elucidating the hidden meanings of events in his book.
Zang Rongxu compared Zhuge Can with Hu Sui of Modai.
Request to recruit Zhuge Can to serve as a councilor.
Emperor Ming agreed to Jiang Si's request, but Zhuge Zhen refused.
At that time, Xie Tiao of Chen County was appointed as the prefect of Shuhai. He wrote a teaching to inform his subordinates. The teaching text said: From the time when the former eldest grandson Shu acted as an official, he made Longqiu Chang become an official. When Kong Wenju's teaching order went northward, Zheng Xuan gained the glory of Tongde Gate.
This is a good way to curb the tendency of greed and cowardice, and to make cowardly people set their ambitions and promote good deeds.
Zhuge Gu, a virgin, was influenced by the noble integrity of his predecessors and embarked on the path of seclusion.
How could he be the kind of fake person who hides jewels but wears brown clothes, has talents but wants to sell them at a high price?
He is a reclusive person who maintains high moral integrity, lives alone and does not care about princes.
It is said that he supported his parents, but was so poor that he could only sip water and could not even make ends meet. How can I enjoy a million-dollar salary but forget my responsibility to help the poor?
It should be given to Zhuge Gu as a gift of a hundred dendrobium grains.
During the Tianjian period, the prefect Xiao Chen, the governor Ancheng Wang Xiao Xiu, and the Poyang king Xiao Hui all gave Zhuge Quan special courtesy.
Zhuge Zhang's mother passed away. During the mourning period, he was extremely thin due to grief. Xiao Hui visited her many times to express condolences.
After the mourning period was over, Zhuge Gu was promoted to a scholar, but he refused to take up the post.
Zhuge Zhang was diligent in teaching and guiding students by nature, and many young people came to study with him every day. The Zhuge family's house was simple and small, unable to accommodate many people. The prefect Zhang You built a lecture house for Zhuge Can.
Zhuge Can was an upright man, and his wife and children could not see his happy or angry expressions.
He worked tirelessly from morning to night, either lecturing or reading, and never stopped. At that time, people respected him more because of this.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to ask Wang Fen, the prefect, about Zhuge Chu's knowledge and virtue. Wang Fen answered truthfully. Zhuge Chu died at home before the imperial court had time to recruit and appoint him.
There are twenty volumes of articles written by Zhuge Can, which were collected and compiled for him by his disciple Liu Tun.
Shen Yi, courtesy name Chumo, was from Wukang, Wuxing.
His father, Shen Tanzhi, was the official official of the Qi Dynasty.
From his childhood, Shen Yi had a pure and peaceful mind with outstanding conduct. He admired the conduct of Huang Shudu and Xu Ruzi.
Shen Yi does not stick to annotations when he reads, and does not pursue flashiness in his writings.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
常独处一室，人罕见其面。
顗从叔勃，贵显齐世，每还吴兴，宾客填咽，顗不至其门。
勃就之，顗送迎不越于阃。
勃叹息曰： 吾乃今知贵不如贱。
俄征为南郡王左常侍，不就。
顗内行甚修，事母兄弟孝友，为乡里所称慕。
永明三年，征著作郎；建武二年，征太子舍人，俱不赴。
永元二年，又征通直郎，亦不赴。
顗素不治家产，值齐末兵荒，与家人并日而食。
或有馈其梁肉者，闭门不受。
唯以樵采自资，怡怡然恒不改其乐。
天监四年，大举北伐，订民丁。
吴兴太守柳恽以顗从役，扬州别驾陆任以书责之，恽大惭，厚礼而遣之。其年卒于家。
所著文章数十篇。
刘慧斐，字文宣，彭城人也。
少博学，能属文，起家安成王法曹行参军。
尝还都，途经寻阳，游于匡山，过处士张孝秀，相得甚欢，遂有终焉之志。
因不仕，居于东林寺。
又于山北构园一所，号曰离垢园，时人乃谓为离垢先生。
慧斐尤明释典，工篆隶，在山手写佛经二千余卷，常所诵者百余卷。
昼夜行道，孜孜不怠，远近钦慕之。
太宗临江州，遗以几杖。
论者云：自远法师没后，将二百年，始有张、刘之盛矣。
世祖及武陵王等书问不绝。
大同二年，卒，时年五十九。
范元琰，字伯珪，吴郡钱唐人也。
祖悦之，太学博士征，不至。
父灵瑜，居父忧，以毁卒。
translation: 
Shen Hao often stays alone in the house, and others rarely see him.
Shen Yi's cousin Shen Bo was a high-ranking official in the Qi Dynasty and was famous. Every time he returned to Wuxing, he was always packed with guests, but Shen Yi never came to his home.
When Shen Bo went to visit Shen Hao, Shen Yi greeted Shen Bo and never left the gate.
Shen Bo sighed and said: Now I realize that people in wealth are not as good as those in poverty.
Soon, Shen Yi was recruited as the constant servant of Zuo, the king of Nanjun, but he did not go to take up the post.
Shen Yi's conduct at home was very good, he served his parents with filial piety, and his brothers were very friendly. He was praised and admired by his fellow villagers.
In the third year of Yongming's reign, Shen Zhan was recruited as a scholar; in the second year of Jianwu, Shen Jie was recruited as Prince Sheren, but he did not take up his post.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Shen Yi was recruited as Tongzhilang again, but he did not go to the post.
Shen Jie never bought any property. It was the end of the Qi Dynasty and the war was in chaos. Life in Shen Jie's family was difficult. He and his family could only eat one day's food in two days.
Someone gave Shen Jie a gift of grain and meat, but Shen Jie closed the door and refused to accept it.
He only made a living by collecting firewood, but he was still content and did not change his purpose.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Liang launched a large-scale northern expedition, so he recruited strong men.
Liu Yun, the prefect of Wuxing, ordered Shen Yi to serve as a laborer. Lu Ren, the governor of Yangzhou, wrote a letter to blame Liu Zang. Liu Zang was very ashamed and sent Shen Zhan a rich gift and asked Shen Wei to go home.
Shen Hao died in his home that year. Shen Wei has written dozens of articles.
Liu Huifei, courtesy name Wenxuan, was born in Pengcheng.
He has been knowledgeable and able to write articles since he was a child. Liu Huifei first became an official and served as King Xuanxu, Facao Xing, and joined the army.
Liu Huifei once passed through Xunyang on his way back to the capital and went to Kuangshan to visit. He went to visit Zhang Xiaoxiu, a minister. The two had similar interests and were very compatible. Liu Huifei then came up with the idea of ​​​​living in Kuangshan for the rest of his life.
So he stopped being an official and lived in Shulin Temple by himself.
He also built a garden in the north of the mountain and named it Lijiu Garden. At that time, people called Liu Huifei Mr. Li Guo.
Liu Huifei was particularly proficient in Buddhist classics. He was proficient in seal script and official script. On Kuangshan Mountain, he hand-copied more than 2,000 volumes of Buddhist scriptures, of which more than 100 volumes were often recited.
Liu Huifei recited Buddhist scriptures day and night, tirelessly, and people near and far admired him.
Taizong came to Liao Dynasty and gave Liu Tomufei a few sticks.
Those who commented on the incident said that nearly two hundred years had passed since the death of Master Yuan before virtuous people like Zhang Xiaoxiu and Liu Huifei appeared on Kuangshan Mountain.
Letters from Shizu, King Wuling and others continued to Liu Zhanying.
Died at the age of fifty-nine.
Fan Yuanyan, courtesy name Bogui, was born in Qiantang Dynasty, Wu County.
His grandfather Fan Yuezhi was recruited as a doctor of Taixue, but he did not take up the post.
Fan Yuanyan's father, Fan Lingyu, died of excessive grief while mourning his father.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
元琰时童孺，哀慕尽礼，亲党异之。
及长好学，博通经史，兼精佛义。
然性谦敬，不以所长骄人。
家贫，唯以园蔬为业。
尝出行，见人盗其菜，元琰遽退走，母问其故，具以实答。
母问盗者为谁，答曰： 向所以退，畏其愧耻。今启其名，愿不泄也。
于是母子秘之。
或有涉沟盗其笋者，元琰因伐木为桥以渡之。
自是盗者大惭，一乡无复草窃。
居常不出城市，独坐如对严宾，见之者莫不改容正色。
沛国刘献深加器异，尝表称之。
齐建武二年，始征为安北参军事，不赴。
天监九年，县令管慧辨上言义行，扬州刺史、临川王宏辟命，不至。
十年，王拜表荐焉，竟未征。
其年卒于家，时年七十。
刘訏，字彦度，平原人也。
父灵真，齐武昌太守。
訏幼称纯孝，数岁，父母继卒，訏居丧，哭泣孺慕，几至灭性，赴吊者莫不伤焉。
后为伯父所养，事伯母及昆姊，孝友笃至，为宗族所称。
自伤早孤，人有误触其讳者，未尝不感结流涕。
长兄洁为之娉妻，克日成婚，訏闻而逃匿，事息乃还。
本州刺史张稷辟为主簿，不就。主者檄召，訏乃挂檄于树而逃。
訏善玄言，尤精释典。
曾与族兄刘高听讲于钟山诸寺，因共卜筑宋熙寺东涧，有终焉之志。
天监十七年，卒于高舍，时年三十一。
临终，执高手曰： 气绝便敛，敛毕即埋，灵筵一不须立，勿设飨祀，无求继嗣。
高从而行之。
宗人至友相与刊石立铭，谥曰玄贞处士。
刘高，字士光，訏族兄也。
祖乘民，宋冀州刺史；父闻慰，齐正员郎。
世为二千石，皆有清名。
高幼有识慧，四岁丧父，与群儿同处，独不戏弄。
六岁诵《论语》、《毛诗》，意所不解，便能问难。
十一，读《庄子·逍遥篇》，曰： 此可解耳。
客因问之，随问而答，皆有情理，家人每异之。
及长，博学有文才，不娶不仕，与族弟訏并隐居求志，遨游林泽，以山水书籍相娱而已。
常欲避人世，以母老不忍违离，每随兄霁、杳从宦。
少时好施，务周人之急，人或遗之，亦不距也。
translation: 
When Fan Lingyu passed away, Fan Yuanyan was still a child, but his grief and longing, abiding by etiquette, and exhausting etiquette surprised his relatives.
When he grew up, Fan Yuanyan was fond of learning, knowledgeable, proficient in classics and history, and at the same time proficient in Buddhist teachings.
But he is humble and respectful by nature and does not treat others arrogantly based on his own strengths.
Fan Yuanyan's family was poor and he only made a living by growing vegetables in the garden.
Once, when Fan Yuanyan went out, he saw someone stealing food from his house. He hurriedly returned home. His mother asked him why he returned home, and he answered her truthfully.
His mother asked him again who stole the food. Fan Yuanyan replied: The reason why he hurriedly returned just now was because he was afraid that the person who stole the food would be ashamed when he saw me. Now I will tell you the name of the person and hope you will not leak it.
So the mother and son kept the incident a secret.
Someone waded across the ditch to steal the bamboo shoots in Fan Yuanyan's home. Fan Yuanyan cut down trees and built a bridge to facilitate the people who stole the bamboo shoots to cross the ditch.
From then on, those who stole things felt very ashamed, and no more thefts occurred in the township.
Fan Yuanyan often stayed at home and never went to the market. Even when he sat alone, he was dignified and respectful, as if he were facing a distinguished guest. Everyone who saw him looked solemn.
Liu Xian of Pei State thought highly of Fan Yuanyan and once praised him in a memorial ceremony.
In the second year of Jianwu of Qi Dynasty, Fan Yuanyan began to be recruited as an official by the imperial court and appointed him to join the military in Anbei. Fan Yuanyan did not take up his post.
In the ninth year of Tianjian's reign, the county magistrate Guan Huibian wrote a letter praising Fan Yuanyan's moral integrity. Yangzhou Governor Linchuan Wang Xiaohong summoned Fan Yuanyan to serve as an official in the name of the palace, but Fan Yuanyan refused.
In the tenth year of Tianjian, King Linchuan recommended Fan Yuanyan, but the court did not recruit him.
In the first year of his reign, Fan Yuanyan died at home at the age of seventy.
Liu Xu, courtesy name Yandu, was from Pingyuan.
His father Liu Lingzhen was the prefect of Wuchang during the Qi Dynasty.
When Liu Xu was young, he was known as filial and sincere. When he was just a few years old, his parents died one after another. During the mourning period for his parents, he cried and mourned and longed for them, almost destroying his own life. Everyone who came to express condolences felt sad for him.
Liu Xu was later raised by his uncle. He served his aunt and treated his brothers and sisters with great respect and kindness, and was praised by people in his clan.
Liu Xu was sad because he lost his parents very early. If someone made a mistake and offended his parents' reputation, he would feel depressed and cry sadly.
The eldest brother Liu Xu had engaged a woman to be Liu Xu's wife, and a date had been set for the marriage. When Liu Yu heard about the affair, he ran away and hid, and returned home only after the incident subsided.
Zhang Ji, the governor of this prefecture, summoned him to be the chief secretary, but he did not go to take office. The official in charge issued a summons to summon Liu Xu, but Liu Xu hung the summons on a tree and escaped.
Liu Xu was good at talking about Taoist mystical principles and was particularly proficient in Buddhist classics.
Liu Xu and his clan brother Liu Di once listened to Buddhist sermons in various temples in Zhongshan. Together, they chose a site to build a house in Shujian of Songxi Temple, and came up with the idea of ​​settling here for the rest of their lives.
In the seventeenth year of Tianjian, Liu Xiang died in Liu Di's home at the age of thirty-one.
When he was dying, Liu Xu took Liu Di's hand and said: I will be buried immediately after I die, and I will be buried immediately after the funeral. There is no need to set up a mourning hall or a memorial ceremony, no sacrifices, no heirs.
Liu Di all followed the instructions.
Liu Xu's fellow clan members and his friends carved an inscription on the stone tablet for him and gave him the title of Xuanzhen virgin.
Liu Xian, whose courtesy name was Shiguang, was the elder brother of the Zhu clan.
Liu Xian's grandfather, Liu Chengmin, was the governor of Jizhou during the Song Dynasty; his father, Liu Wenwei, was a Zhengyuanlang during the Qi Dynasty.
Father and son held the post of two thousand stones one after another, and both of them had a reputation of being pure and beautiful.
Liu Xian was smart and knowledgeable when he was young. When he was four years old, his father died. He is the only one who does not play among children.
Liu Xian could recite "The Analects of Confucius" and "Mao Shi" at the age of six. He could also ask questions and argue with them if he did not understand the meaning of the text.
When Liu Xian was eleven years old, he read "Zhuangzi's Xiaoyao Pian" and said: "I can explain this article."
Someone asked him a question, and he answered the question casually and his explanations were reasonable and reasonable. Everyone in his family was often surprised by this.
When he grew up, Liu Di was knowledgeable and talented. He did not marry a wife or become an official. He lived in seclusion with his brother Liu Xi to realize his pursuits, traveling around mountains, forests, rivers and lakes, and pursuing pleasure in mountains, rivers and books.
Liu Di often wanted to leave the world, but he could not bear to leave because his mother was old, so he often followed his brothers Liu Ji and Xingcha to serve as officials.
When Xingfu was young, he liked to give alms. When others were in need, he would always give alms, and he would not refuse anything given to him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
久而叹曰： 受人者必报，不则有愧于人。
吾固无以报人，岂可常有愧乎？
天监十七年，无何而著《革终论》。
其辞曰：死生之事，圣人罕言之矣。孔子曰： 精气为物，游魂为变，知鬼神之情状，与天地相似而不违。
其言约，其旨妙，其事隐，其意深，未可以臆断，难得而精核，聊肆狂瞽，请试言之。
夫形虑合而为生，魂质离而称死；合则起动，离则休寂。
当其动也，人皆知其神；及其寂也，物莫测其所趣。
皆知则不言而义显，莫测则逾辩而理微。
是以勋、华旷而莫陈，姬、孔抑而不说，前达往贤，互生异见。
季札云： 骨肉归于土，魂气无不之。
庄周云： 生为徭役，死为休息。
寻此二说，如或相反。
何者？
气无不之，神有也；死为休息，神无也。
原宪云： 夏后氏用明器示民无知也；殷人用祭器，示人有知也；周人兼用之，示民疑也。
考之记籍，验之前志，有无之辩，不可历言。
若稽诸内教，判乎释部，则诸子之言可寻，三代之礼无越。
何者？
神为生本，形为生具。死者神离此具，而即非彼具也。
虽死者不可复反，而精灵递变，未尝灭绝。
当其离此之日，识用廓然，故夏后明器，示其弗反。
即彼之时，魂灵知灭，故殷人祭器，显其犹存。
不存则合乎庄周，犹存则同乎季札，各得一隅，无伤厥义。
translation: 
Over time, he sighed: "You must repay others when you accept things from others, otherwise you will feel ashamed of others."
I don’t have the ability to repay others, so how can I always feel guilty?
Not long after, Liu Xian wrote "The End of the Revolution", which advocated changing funeral customs. The time was the 17th year of Tianjian. The treatise says: Sages rarely talk about matters of life and death.
Confucius said: When the spirit of spirits gathers and becomes a human being, the soul will change when it wanders away. From this, we know that the situation of ghosts and gods is similar to that of heaven and earth without departing from it.
His words are concise, and the purport of his words is exquisite. What he talks about is very profound, and the meaning of his words is very mysterious. It cannot be inferred by guessing, and it is difficult to examine carefully. I will rely on my ignorance and boldly try to talk about things related to communication.
The combination of body and spirit is life, the separation of spirit and body is called death, the combination of the two is called speech and action, and the separation of the two is silence.
When there are words and actions, everyone knows the manifestation of the spirit; when there is silence, no one can know the whereabouts of the spirit.
If everyone knows it, then it will be very clear even without explaining the truth. If no one knows it, then the more you explain it, the more mysterious the truth will be.
Therefore, Yixun, Hua Kuang, Mo Chen, Ji, and Kong Yi all avoided this issue and did not comment on it. The sages of the previous generation also often had different opinions.
Jizha said: After death, the flesh and blood return to the earth, and the soul can go anywhere.
Zhuang Zhou said: Life is like serving a corvee, and death is like being motionless.
Looking at the two statements, it seems that the views are opposite.
Why?
The soul can go everywhere, which means that the spirit exists; death is like standing still, which means that the spirit does not exist.
Yuan Xian said: The Xia Hou family used bright weapons to sacrifice the dead. This clearly told the people that people have no consciousness after death. The people of Yin used sacrificial vessels to offer sacrifices to the dead, which clearly told the people that people still have consciousness after death.
People in the Zhou Dynasty used both visible and sacrificial vessels when offering sacrifices to the dead. This was to tell the people that they were still uncertain about whether people had consciousness after death.
Examining ancient books and historical records of previous dynasties, it is impossible to describe all the debates about knowledge and ignorance after death. If we check based on Buddhist teachings and judge based on Buddhist scriptures, then we can find basis for the remarks of the above people. There are no mistakes in the etiquette of the three generations.
Why?
The spirit is the foundation of life, and the body is the shell of life. After death, the spirit leaves the shell and attaches to other objects outside the shell.
Although the dead cannot be resurrected, the spirit has evolved and has never been extinct.
When the spirit leaves the body, all human insight and ability are gone. Therefore, the Xiahou family sacrifices the deceased with an open weapon to express that the spirit will never come back.
When attached to other objects, it turns out that the person's spiritual consciousness is also completely lost, so the Yin people used sacrificial vessels to send the deceased to show that the spirit still exists.
The statement that the spirit will not return is consistent with Zhuang Zhou's point of view, and the statement that the spirit still exists is consistent with Jizha's point of view. Each captures an aspect and does not undermine the understanding of life and death.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
设其实也，则亦无，故周人有兼用之礼，尼父发游魂之唱，不其然乎？
若废偏携之论，探中途之旨，则不仁不智之讥，于是乎可息。
夫形也者，无知之质也；神也者，有知之性也。
有知不独存，依无知以自立，故形之于神，逆旅之馆耳。
及其死也，神去此而适彼也。
神已去此，馆何用存？
速朽得理也。
神已适彼，祭何所祭？
祭则失理。
而姬、孔之教不然者，其有以乎！
盖礼乐之兴，出于浇薄，俎豆缀兆，生于俗弊。
施灵筵，陈棺椁，设馈奠，建丘陇，盖欲令孝子有追思之地耳，夫何补于已迁之神乎？
故上古衣之以薪，弃之中野，可谓尊卢、赫胥、皇雄、炎帝蹈于失理哉？
是以子羽沉川，汉伯方圹，文楚黄壤，士安麻索。
此四子者，得理也，忘教也。
若从四子而游，则平生之志得矣。
然积习生常，难卒改革，一朝肆志，傥不见从。
今欲剪截烦厚，务存俭易；进不裸尸，退异常俗；不伤存者之念，有合至人之道。
孔子云： 敛首足形，还葬而无椁。
斯亦贫者之礼也，余何陋焉？
且张奂止用幅巾，王肃唯盥手足，范冉殓毕便葬，奚珍无设筵几，文度故舟为椁，子廉牛车载柩，叔起诫绝坟陇，康成使无卜吉。
此数公者，尚或如之；况于吾人，而当华泰！
今欲仿佛景行，以为轨则，傥合中庸之道，庶免徒费之讥。
气绝不须复魂，盥洗而敛。以一千钱市治棺、单故裙衫、衣巾枕履。
此外送往之具，棺中常物，及余阁之祭，一不得有所施。
translation: 
In essence, people are unconscious after death, so people in the Zhou Dynasty had the etiquette of using both visible and sacrificial vessels when offering sacrifices to the dead. Isn’t it exactly like this when Confucius proposed the idea that the soul wanders?
If we abandon the paranoid views and explore a compromise between the two ends, then the accusations of being unkind and unwise can be put to rest.
The body is the insensible shell, the spirit is the sentient nature.
The spirit is sentient but cannot exist alone. It can only stand on its own by being attached to a body without sentience. Therefore, the body is like a hotel on a journey to the spirit.
When a person dies, his spirit leaves this hotel and goes somewhere else.
The spirit has left, why does the hotel still exist?
After death, it is reasonable to believe that people should be buried sparingly and die quickly.
The spirit has gone to another place, so what is the object of sacrifice?
Sacrifice goes against the truth.
But the teachings of Zhou Gong and Confucius are not like this. I am afraid there are other reasons!
Probably because the ritual and music system was established in an era when folk customs were weak; the use of sacrificial utensils and the regulations of dance steps emerged from vulgar folk customs.
Setting up spiritual feasts, placing coffins, offering memorial offerings, and building tombs are all for the purpose of giving filial sons a place to remember their deceased relatives. What benefit does this have to the departed spirit?
So in ancient times, when people died, they were simply wrapped in firewood and abandoned in the wild. Can we say that the Zunlu family, the Hexu family, the Huangxiong family, and the Yan Emperor did something that went against the law?
Therefore, Tantai Ziyu sank his son's body into the river for a water burial. Jing Mobo only asked to be buried in a cave. Zhao Wenchu ​​left orders to spread loess in the coffin, and Huangfu Shi'an only asked to tie the body with hemp ropes.
These four gentlemen can be said to have mastered the laws of nature and have forgotten the teachings.
If I can follow these four gentlemen, then my lifelong ambition will be realized.
However, the customs have been passed down for many years, and it is difficult to change the funeral rules all at once. If I suddenly have to completely comply with my own ideas, I worry that my relatives will not obey me out of love.
Now I just want to get rid of the cumbersome etiquette and get rid of the custom of extravagant burials. The funeral must be frugal, the etiquette must be simple, not so radical, and the body should be buried naked, and it must not be too conservative. It must be different from the inherent customs, not hurt the feelings of relatives in the world, and also conform to the standards of a high-minded person.
Confucius said: After death, the body is wrapped up and transported back to the hometown for burial. There is a coffin but no coffin.
Funeral is also the funeral etiquette of poor families. How can I regard this kind of etiquette as simple?
Moreover, Zhang Huan left a message to wrap his body in a scarf, Wang Su said to wash his hands and feet, Fan Ran said to be buried immediately after the burial ceremony, and Xi Zhen left a message not to hold a few banquets in front of the soul. Sai Zhi's last words were to use an old ship as a coffin, He Zilian's last words was to use an ox cart to transport his coffin, Shu Qi's last words were to warn his descendants not to build a tomb for himself, and Zheng Kangcheng's last words were not to use divination to choose a burial place.
The above-mentioned ancestors only asked for a simple funeral, let alone how can people like us pursue a luxurious funeral!
Now I want to imitate the noble virtues of the sages and use their actions as my own standards. Maybe I can conform to the golden mean and hope to avoid the criticism of wasted time.
After I die, there is no need to hold a soul-calling ceremony. After washing my body, I can bury it. I only need to spend one thousand yuan to prepare a coffin and buy ordinary dresses, towels, pillows, shoes, etc.
Apart from this, there is no need to prepare other items for offering sacrifices to the deceased, utensils for burial in the coffin, and items for offering libations before burial.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
世多信李、彭之言，可谓惑矣。
余以孔、释为师，差无此惑。
敛讫，载以露车，归于旧山，随得一地，地足为坎，坎足容棺，不须砖甓，不劳封树，勿设祭飨，勿置几筵，无用茅君之虚座，伯夷之杅水。
其蒸尝继嗣，言象所绝，事止余身，无伤世教。
家人长幼，内外姻戚，凡厥友朋，爰及寓所，咸愿成余之志，幸勿夺之。
明年疾卒，时年三十二。
高幼时尝独坐空室，有一老公至门，谓高曰： 心力勇猛，能精死生；但不得久滞一方耳。
因弹指而去。
高既长，精心学佛。
有道人释宝志者，时人莫测也，遇高于兴皇寺，惊起曰： 隐居学道，清净登佛。
如此三说。
高未死之春，有人为其庭中栽柿，高谓兄子弇曰： 吾不见此实，尔其勿言。
至秋而亡，人以为知命。
亲故诔其行迹，谥曰贞节处士。
庾诜，字彦宝，新野人也。
幼聪警笃学，经史百家无不该综，纬候书射，棋釐机巧，并一时之绝。
而性托夷简，特爱林泉。
十亩之宅，山池居半。
蔬食弊衣，不治产业。
尝乘舟从田舍还，载米一百五十石，有人寄载三十石。
既至宅，寄载者曰： 君三十斛，我百五十石。
诜默然不言，恣其取足。
邻人有被诬为盗者，被治劾，妄款，诜矜之，乃以书质钱二万，令门生诈为其亲，代之酬备。
translation: 
Most people in the world believe what Peng Zu and Li Er said, which can be regarded as confusion.
Taking Confucius and Buddha as my teachers can help me avoid this confusion.
After the body is buried, the coffin is transported in a car without a curtain and buried in the hometown. You can find a piece of land at random. You can dig a pit in this land, as long as the pit can accommodate the coffin. Do not build tombs with bricks and tiles, do not pile earth into tombs, plant trees as decorations, do not display offerings for sacrifice, and do not set up several banquets. There is no need to set up a empty seat to worship like you did to Mao Jun; nor do you need to use a cup of water to worship like you did to Boyi.
As for the sacrifices of future generations, I will not mention it here. The things mentioned above are only for me. Do not let this affect the education.
Adults and children at home, relatives inside and outside, and friends, as long as they come to my apartment, I hope they can help realize my last wish, and I hope they will not go against my wishes.
Liu Di died of illness the next year at the age of thirty-two.
When Liu Xian was a child, he once sat alone in an empty room. An old man came to the room and said to Liu Xian: Your intelligence is stronger than ordinary people. You can master the art of death and life, but you can't stay in one place for a long time.
After saying that, he suddenly disappeared.
When Liu Xian grew up, he studied Buddhism carefully.
There was a monk Shi Baozhi, but no one could understand him at that time. Shi Shizhi met Liu Di at Xinghuang Temple and said to Liu Shu in surprise: "I live in seclusion to study Taoism and quietly ascend to Buddhism."
Said it three times in a row.
In the spring when Liu Di was about to die, someone planted a persimmon tree in his courtyard. Liu Hui said to his brother's son Liu Bian: I can't see the fruit of this persimmon tree. I hope you won't tell others.
Liu Shi died in the autumn. People at that time believed that Liu Di could know his fate in advance.
Relatives and friends recounted Liu Di's virtues and deeds and gave him the title of Chaste Virgin.
Yu Shen's courtesy name is Yanbao, a new savage.
He has been smart since he was a child and loves learning. There is no one among the hundreds of classics and historians who does not have a comprehensive understanding of it. Their skills in Weishu, Sheyu Liushu, chess counting, and ingenuity all surpass those of the people at that time.
But the opera director is simple and simple by nature, especially fond of mountains, forests, springs and rocks.
His residence covers an area of ​​ten acres, half of which is occupied by rocks and ponds.
Yu Shen usually ate a vegetarian diet, wore old clothes, and did not buy any property.
Once, Yu said that he was going home from the farmhouse by boat. The boat was loaded with 150 shi of rice, and a man was carrying 30 hu of rice on the boat.
After returning home, the man who carried the rice said: Your rice is thirty dendrobium, and the rice I carried is one hundred and fifty shi.
Yu said that he remained silent and allowed him to take as much as he wanted, a hundred and fifty kilograms of rice.
Yu said that a neighbor was framed as a thief, arrested and convicted, and the neighbor was forced to confess. Yu said he sympathized with his neighbor's plight, so he used his book as a mortgage to raise 20,000 yuan, and asked his disciples to come forward and pretend to be his neighbor's relatives to compensate for the neighbor's lost property.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
邻人获免，谢诜，诜曰： 吾矜天下无辜，岂期谢也。
其行多如此类。
高祖少与诜善，雅推重之。
及起义，署为平西府记室参军，诜不屈。
平生少所游狎，河东柳恽欲与之交，诜距而不纳。
后湘东王临荆州，板为镇西府记室参军，不就。
普通中，诏曰： 明扬振滞，为政所先；旌贤求士，梦伫斯急。
新野庾诜，止足栖退，自事却扫，经史文艺，多所贯习；颍川庾承先，学通黄、老，该涉释教；并不竞不营，安兹枯槁，可以镇躁敦俗。
诜可黄门侍郎，承先可中书侍郎。
勒州县时加敦遣，庶能屈志，方冀盐梅。
诜称疾不赴。
晚年以后，尤遵释教。宅内立道场，环绕礼忏，六时不辍。
诵《法华经》，每日一遍。
后夜中忽见一道人，自称愿公，容止甚异，呼诜为上行先生，授香而去。
中大通四年，因昼寝，忽惊觉曰： 愿公复来，不可久住。
颜色不变，言终而卒，时年七十八。
举室咸闻空中唱 上行先生已生弥净域矣 。
高祖闻而下诏曰： 旌善表行，前王所敦。
新野庾诜，荆山珠玉，江陵杞梓，静侯南度，固有名德，独贞苦节，孤芳素履。
奄随运往，恻怆于怀。宜谥贞节处士，以显高烈。
诜所撰《帝历》二十卷、《易林》二十卷、续伍端休《江陵记》一卷、《晋朝杂事》五卷、《总抄》八十卷，行于世。
translation: 
The neighbor was exonerated and came to thank Yu. Yu Shen said: I sympathize with the innocent and punished people in the world, how can I expect others to express their thanks?
Yu said there were many words and deeds like sending.
When Gaozu was young, he had a good friendship with Wan Qi, and he always respected Yu Shen very much.
After Emperor Gaozu organized a volunteer army, he appointed Yu Shen to join the army as the secretary of Pingxi Prefecture. Yu Shen refused to change his ambition to become an official and did not accept the appointment.
Yu Shen Qiansheng rarely interacted with people. Liu Feng from Hedong wanted to associate with Biao Zuo, but Yu Shen refused and refused to accept him.
In the name of the palace, Yu Shen was appointed as the secretary of the Zhenxi Mansion to join the army, but Yu Shen did not go to the post.
During the ordinary years, the emperor went down to Shao and said: Promoting wise men who have not been appointed for a long time is the most important thing in Shizhengguo; commending wise men and seeking wise men is my top priority day and night.
Xinye Yushen retired from official duties and thanked guests behind closed doors. He was proficient in history, literature and art, and most of them were proficient in it. Yingchuan Yu Shenxian was proficient in the studies of Huang and Lao and was well-read in Buddhist books. Neither of them seek profit or selfishness, and are content with a life of poverty. Their virtue can restrain cunning people and make the people honest and simple.
Chen said that he should be appointed as the Minister of Huangmen, and Yu Chengxian should be appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu.
The prefectures and counties where they are located are ordered to be ready to send them to the court at any time, hoping that they will change their ambition to serve as officials, and will expect them to shoulder the important task of governing the country.
Yu Gui claimed that he was ill and refused to go to his post.
In his later years, Yu Shen particularly respected Buddhism. He set up a monastery in his house to chant sutras and worship, and surrounded the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas every day to worship and repent, day and night.
He recited the Lotus Sutra once a day.
Later one night, Yu Shen suddenly saw a monk. The monk called himself Yan Gong. His appearance and behavior were very special. He called Yu Mr. Dagger Xing, handed the incense to Li Miao and left.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Yu Shen suddenly woke up while taking a nap during the day and said: Lord Yuan is here again. I can't stay any longer.
His expression did not change, and he died immediately after speaking. He was seventy-eight years old when he died.
When he died, the whole family heard someone calling from the air: Mr. Shangxing has been reborn in the Western Pure Land.
When Emperor Gaozu heard the news of Yu Shui's death, he issued an edict: "Recognizing good deeds and promoting beautiful virtues are things that previous emperors paid attention to."
Xinye Yushen is like the beautiful jewels and jade from Jingshan, like the good materials from Jiangling. He is like the Marquis Jing of our south. He has great reputation and virtue, but he also keeps his moral integrity, is pure and unpretentious, simple and innocent.
Suddenly fate took him away from this world, and I felt very sad and sad. It should be given to Yu Shuomi with the title of Chastity Virgin to commend his high integrity.
Yu Shen wrote twenty volumes of "Di Li", twenty volumes of "Yi Lin", one volume of Wu Duanxiu's "Jiangling Ji", five volumes of "Miscellaneous Affairs of the Jin Dynasty", and eighty volumes of "Zongchao", all of which have been circulated in the world.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
子曼倩，字世华，亦早有令誉。
世祖在荆州，辟为主簿，迁中录事。
每出，世祖常目送之，谓刘之遴曰： 荆南信多君子，虽美归田凤，清属桓阶，赏德标奇，未过此子。
后转谘议参军。
所著《丧服仪》、《文字体例》、《庄老义疏》，注《算经》及《七曜历术》，并所制文章，凡九十五卷。
子季才，有学行。
承圣中，仕至中书侍郎。
江陵陷，随例入关。
张孝秀，字文逸，南阳宛人也。
少仕州为治中从事史。
遭母忧，服阕，为建安王别驾。
顷之，遂去职归山，居于东林寺。
有田数十顷，部曲数百人，率以力田，尽供山众，远近归慕，赴之如市。
孝秀性通率，不好浮华，常冠谷皮巾，蹑蒲履，手执并榈皮麈尾。
服寒食散，盛冬能卧于石。
博涉群书，专精释典。
善谈论，工隶书，凡诸艺能，莫不明习。
普通三年，卒，时年四十二，室中皆闻有非常香气。
太宗闻，甚伤悼焉，与刘慧斐书，述其贞白云。
庾承先，字子通，颍川焉陵人也。
少沉静有志操，是非不涉于言，喜愠不形于色，人莫能窥也。
弱岁受学于南阳刘虬，强记敏识，出于群辈。
玄经释典，靡不该悉；九流《七略》，咸所精练。
郡辟功曹不就，乃与道士王僧镇同游衡岳。
晚以弟疾还乡里，遂居于土台山。
鄱阳忠烈王在州，钦其风味，要与游处。
translation: 
Yu Shen's son Yu Manqian, also named Shihua, also had a good reputation early on.
When Shizu was in Jingzhou, he called Yu Manqian to be the chief secretary and moved to Zhonglvshi.
Every time Yu Manqian left Shizu's house, Shizu often watched him off. Shizu said to Liu Zhilin: There are indeed many gentlemen in Jingnan. Although they are as dignified as Tian Feng of Houmo and have experienced the Huanjie of Wei State, their virtues are worthy of praise and their demeanor is outstanding. None of them exceeds the people of Lu.
Yu Manqian was later transferred to consult and join the army.
Yu Manqian's "Chao Fu Yi", "Character Style", "Zhuang Lao Yi Shu", his annotations of "Suan Jing" and "Qi Yao Li Shu", as well as articles written by him, total ninety-five volumes.
Yu Manqian's son Yu Jicai was very knowledgeable and moral.
During the Chengsheng reign, his official position was promoted to the position of Minister of Zhongshu.
Jiangling was captured by the Zhou Dynasty, and Yu Jicai moved into the Pass as usual.
Zhang Xiaoxiu, courtesy name Wenyi, was born in Wan, Nanyang.
When he was young, he was engaged in history in Zhongzhong.
When his mother passed away, he left his job to mourn. When the period of mourning expired, he was appointed King Jian'an's farewell chariot.
Soon after, Zhang Xiaoxiu resigned and lived in seclusion in Shulin Temple.
There are dozens of hectares of fields in the temple, and hundreds of servants are employed. All the servants cultivate the fields, and all the harvest is provided to the monks in the temple. People from far and near were attracted by him, and people rushed to Donglin Temple as if they were rushing to the market.
Zhang Xiaoxiu has an open-minded and straightforward temperament and does not like glitz. He often wears a grain skin scarf on his head, straw sandals made of cattail on his feet, and holds a palm crotch in his hand.
Zhang Xiaoxiu took Hanshi Powder and lay down on a stone to save energy in the middle of winter.
He read extensively and was particularly proficient in Buddhist classics.
He is good at talking and discussing with others, good at official script, and is proficient in all kinds of skills.
Three years later, Zhang Xiaoxiu died at the age of forty-two. Everyone in the room when he died smelled a special aroma.
When Zhusai heard the news of his death, he was very sad and grieved. He wrote to Liu Huifei, specifically talking about Tui Longxiu's noble and pure moral integrity.
Yu Chengxian, courtesy name Zitong, was born in Yuling, Yingchuan.
When he was young, he was calm, ambitious, and ethical. He did not talk about the rights and wrongs of others in his speech, and his expression did not show emotions. No one could spy on his inner activities.
When he was young, he studied under Liu Qiu of Nanyang. He had a strong memory, intelligence and extensive knowledge, surpassing others who studied with him.
He has a comprehensive grasp of Taoist "Laozi" and Buddhist classics, and is very familiar with them. There is no one that he has not mastered in various techniques and various books.
The county government recruited Yu Chengxian as a meritorious officer, but Yu Chengxian refused to take office. He and the monk Wang Sengzhen went to Hengyue to visit.
In his later years, Yu Chengxian returned to his hometown because of his brother's illness and lived in Tutai Mountain.
King Zhonglie of Poyang was in the state at that time. He admired Yu Chengxian's elegant character and invited Yu Chengxian to have fun with him.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
又令讲《老子》，远近名僧，咸来赴集，论难锋起，异端竞至，承先徐相酬答，皆得所未闻。
忠烈王尤加钦重，征州主簿；湘东王闻之，亦板为法曹参军；并不赴。
中大通三年，庐山刘慧斐至荆州，承先与之有旧，往从之。
荆陕学徒，因请承先讲《老子》。
湘东王亲命驾临听，论议终日，深相赏接。
留连月余日，乃还山。
王亲祖道，并赠篇什，隐者美之。
其年卒，时年六十。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：世之诬处士者，多云纯盗虚名而无适用，盖有负其实者。
若诸葛璩之学术，阮孝绪之簿阀，其取进也岂难哉？
终于隐居，固亦性而已矣。
translation: 
King Zhonglie of Poyang also ordered Yu Cheng to preach "Laozi" first. Famous monks from near and far gathered together to raise various questions and heresies. Yu Chengxian answered them one by one calmly and calmly. Everyone who attended the meeting heard truths they had never heard of before.
King Zhonglie of Poyang admired and respected Yu Chengxian even more and made him the governor of the state. When King Xiangshu heard the news, he also appointed Yu Chengxian to join the army in the name of his own palace, but Yu Chengxian did not even go to the post.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, Liu Huifei from Lushan came to Jingzhou. Yu Chengxian had a friendship with Liu Huifei, so he went to visit Liu Huifei.
Scholars from Jingshan and Shanxi took this opportunity to ask Yu Cheng to speak about "Laozi" first.
The King of Eastern Hunan came to listen to the lecture in person and discussed it with Yu Chengxian for a whole day. He was deeply impressed by him.
King Xiangshu also invited Yu Chengxian to the palace and stayed there for more than a month before Yu Chengxian returned to the mountains.
When he returned to the mountain, King Xiangshu personally held a farewell banquet for him and wrote poems as gifts. People who lived in seclusion felt that this was an honor.
This year, Yu Chengxian died at the age of sixty.
Yao Chaqiu, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: Most of the people in the world who speak ill of virgins accuse them of simply stealing empty names without any merits suitable for world use. They are really people who do not deserve their names.
With Zhuge Can's knowledge and Ruan Xiaoxu's family background, how could they have any difficulty in seeking official positions?
It is simply their nature to spend their lives in seclusion.


