Chunk 0: 
original: 
晋唐叔虞者，周武王子而成王弟。
初，武王与叔虞母会时，梦天谓武王曰： 余命女生子，名虞，余与之唐。
及生子，文在其手曰 虞 ，故遂因命之曰虞。
武王崩，成王立，唐有乱，周公诛灭唐。
成王与叔虞戏，削桐叶为圭以与叔虞，曰： 以此封若。
史佚因请择日立叔虞。
成王曰： 吾与之戏耳。
史佚曰： 天子无戏言。
言则史书之，礼成之，乐歌之。
于是遂封叔虞于唐。
唐在河、汾之东，方百里，故曰唐叔虞。姓姬氏，字子于。
唐叔子燮，是为晋侯。
晋侯子宁族，是为武侯。
武侯之子服人，是为成侯。
成侯子福，是为厉侯。
厉侯之子宜臼，是为靖侯。
靖侯已来，年纪可推。
自唐叔至靖侯五世，无其年数。
靖侯十七年，周厉王迷惑暴虐，国人作乱，厉王出奔于彘，大臣行政，故曰 共和 。
十八年，靖侯卒，子厘侯司徒立。
厘侯十四年，周宣王初立。
十八年，厘侯卒，子献侯籍立。
献侯十一年卒，子穆侯费王立。
穆侯四年，取齐女姜氏为夫人。
七年，伐条。
生太子仇。
十年，伐千亩，有功。
生少子，名曰成师。
晋人师服曰： 异哉，君之命子也！
太子曰仇，仇者雠也。
少子曰成师，成师大号，成之者也。
名，自命也；物，自定也。
今适庶名反逆，此后晋其能毋乱乎？
二十七年，穆侯卒，弟殇叔自立，太子仇出奔。
殇叔三年，周宣王崩。
四年，穆侯太子仇率其徒袭殇叔而立，是为文侯。
文侯十年，周幽王无道，犬戎杀幽王，周东徙。
translation: 
Tang Shuyu of Jin State was the son of King Zhou Wu and the younger brother of King Zhou Cheng.
At first, when King Wu of Zhou was with Shu Yu's mother, Shu Yu's mother dreamed that God said to King Wu of Zhou: I will give you a son named Yu, and I will give him the land of Tang.
When Mrs. Wu Wang gave birth to the baby, she saw that the word "Yu" was written on the palm of her hand, so she named her son Yu.
After the death of King Zhou Wu, King Zhou Cheng succeeded to the throne, civil strife broke out in Tang Dynasty, and Duke Zhou destroyed Tang Dynasty.
One day, King Cheng of Zhou and Shu Yu were playing together. King Cheng cut a tung tree leaf into the shape of a jade and gave it to Shu Yu, saying: Use this to entrust you.
Shi Yi then asked to choose an auspicious day to make Shu Yu a prince.
King Zhou Cheng said: I was joking with him!
Shi Yi said: The emperor has no jokes.
As long as it is said, the historian must record it truthfully, complete it according to etiquette, and play music to praise it.
So King Cheng of Zhou granted the land of Tang to Shu Yu.
Tang Dynasty is located east of the Yellow River and Fen River, with a radius of hundreds of miles, so Shuyu is also called Tang Shuyu. His surname is Ji and his courtesy name is Ziyu.
Uncle Tang's son Xie was the Marquis of Jin.
The son of the Marquis of Jin, Ning, was the Marquis of Wu.
The son of Marquis Wu was the Marquis of Cheng.
Chenghou's son Fu was Lihou.
Lihou's son Yijiu was Jinghou.
After Jinghou, the age of Jin can be calculated.
From Tang Shuyu to Jinghou in the Five Dynasties, there is no record of the number of years they reigned.
In the 17th year of Jinghou, King Li of Zhou was brutal and violent, and the people of the country were in turmoil. King Li fled to the pigs, and the ministers presided over government affairs, so it was called "Republic".
In the eighteenth year, Jinghou passed away and his son Lihou Situ succeeded to the throne.
In the fourteenth year of Lihou, King Xuan of Zhou had just ascended the throne.
In the eighteenth year, Marquis Li died, and his son Xianhou came to the throne.
Xianhou died in the eleventh year, and his son Muhou, King Fei, came to the throne.
In the fourth year after Mu Hou ascended the throne, he married Qi's daughter Jiang as his wife.
In the seventh year, Muhou conquered the territory.
The lady gave birth to the prince and was angry.
In ten years, he conquered thousands of acres and made great achievements.
Mu Hou also had a younger son, named Chengshi.
The teacher from Jin Dynasty said: "What a strange name the king gave to his child!"
The prince's name is Qiu, and Qiu means hatred.
The younger son is called Chengshi. Chengshi is a big name and means success.
The name is given by itself, but things have their own rules.
Now, the names of the eldest son and the concubine are exactly the same. Will Jin be able to avoid chaos in the future?
In the twenty-seventh year, Hou Mu died, and his younger brother Uncle Shang established himself as king, and Prince Qiu was forced to flee.
In the third year of Uncle Shang's reign, King Xuan of Zhou passed away.
In the fourth year, Muhou's prince Qiu led his followers to attack Uncle Shang and established himself as the king of the country. This was Wenhou.
In the tenth year of Marquis Wen, King You of Zhou was ignorant and immoral. Dogs and soldiers killed King You of Zhou, and the royal family of Zhou moved eastward.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
昭侯元年，封文侯弟成师于曲沃。
曲沃邑大于翼。
翼，晋君都邑也。
成师封曲沃，号为桓叔。
靖侯庶孙栾宾相桓叔。
桓叔是时年五十八矣，好德，晋国之众皆附焉。
君子曰： 晋之乱其在曲沃矣。
末大于本而得民心，不乱何待！
七年，晋大臣潘父弑其君昭侯而迎曲沃桓叔。
桓叔欲入晋，晋人发兵攻桓叔。
桓叔败，还归曲沃。
晋人共立昭侯子平为君，是为孝侯。
诛潘父。
孝侯八年，曲沃桓叔卒，子鳝代桓叔，是为曲沃庄伯。
孝侯十五年，曲沃庄伯弑其君晋孝侯于翼。
晋人攻曲沃庄伯，庄伯复入曲沃。
晋人复立孝侯子郄为君，是为鄂侯。
鄂侯二年，鲁隐公初立。
鄂侯六年卒。
曲沃庄伯闻晋鄂侯卒，乃兴兵伐晋。
周平王使虢公将兵伐曲沃庄伯，庄伯走保曲沃。
晋人共立鄂侯子光，是为哀侯。
哀侯二年，曲沃庄伯卒，子称代庄伯立，是为曲沃武公。
哀侯六年，鲁弑其君隐公。
哀侯八年，晋侵陉廷。
陉廷与曲沃武公谋，九年，伐晋于汾旁，虏哀侯。
晋人乃立哀侯子小子为君，是为小子侯。
小子元年，曲沃武公使韩万杀所虏晋哀侯。
曲沃益强，晋无如之何。
晋小子之四年，曲沃武公诱召晋小子杀之。
周桓王使虢仲伐曲沃武公，武公入于曲沃，乃立晋哀侯弟缗为晋侯。
晋侯缗四年，宋执郑祭仲而立突为郑君。
晋侯十九年，齐人管至父弑其君襄公。
晋侯二十八年，齐桓公始霸。
曲沃武公伐晋侯缗，灭之，尽以其宝器赂献于周厘王。厘王命曲沃武公为晋君，列为诸侯，于是尽并晋地而有之。
曲沃武公已即位三十七年矣，更号曰晋武公。
晋武公始都晋国，前即位曲沃，通年三十八年。
武公称者，先晋穆侯曾孙也，曲沃桓叔孙也。
桓叔者，始封曲沃。
武公，庄伯子也。
自桓叔初封曲沃以至武公灭晋也，凡六十七岁，而卒代晋为诸侯。
武公代晋二岁，卒。与曲沃通年，即位凡三十九年而卒。
乃使尽杀诸公子，而城聚都之，命曰绛，始都绛。
九年，晋群公子既亡奔虢，虢以其故再伐晋，弗克。
十年，晋欲伐虢，士蒍曰： 且待其乱。
十二年，骊姬生傒齐。
献公有意废太子，乃曰： 曲沃吾先祖宗庙所在，而蒲边秦，屈边翟，不使诸子居之，我惧焉。
于是使太子申生居曲沃，公子重耳居蒲，公子夷吾居屈。
献公与骊姬子傒齐居绛。
晋国以此知太子不立也。
太子申生，其母齐桓公女也，曰齐姜，早死。
申生同母女弟为秦穆公夫人。
重耳母，翟之狐氏女也。
夷吾母，重耳母女弟也。
献公子八人，而太子申生、重耳、夷吾皆有贤行。
及得骊姬，乃远此三子。
十六年，晋献公作二军。
公将上军，太子申生将下军，赵夙御戎，毕万为右，伐灭霍，灭魏，灭耿。
还，为太子城曲沃，赐赵夙耿，赐毕万魏，以为大夫。
translation: 
Qin Xianggong began to be classified as a prince. In the thirty-fifth year, Wenhou Qiu died, and his son Zhaohou Bo came to the throne. In the first year of the reign of Emperor Zhaohou, Marquis Wen conferred the title of Quwo to his younger brother.
Quwo City is larger than Yicheng.
Yicheng was the capital of Jinjun.
When he became a master, he was granted the title of Uncle Huan in Quwo.
Jinghou's concubine Luan Bin assisted Uncle Huan.
At that time, Uncle Huan was already old and respected virtue, so the people of Jin State all attached themselves to him.
The gentleman said: The turmoil in Jin State is in Quwo.
It is bigger than its roots and has won the hearts of the people. If there is no chaos, what are you waiting for!
In the seventh year of Zhaohou, Pan's father, the minister of Jin, killed the king Zhaohou and was going to meet Uncle Huan Quwo.
Uncle Huan also wanted to go to the Jin capital, but the Jin people sent troops to attack Uncle Huan.
Uncle Huan was defeated and returned to Quwo.
The people of Jin jointly established Ping, the son of Zhaohou, as the king of the country. This is Xiaohou.
Xiaohou killed Pan's father.
In the eighth year of Xiaohou's reign, Uncle Huan of Quwo passed away, and his son Huan inherited Uncle Huan's title. He became Uncle Zhuang of Quwo.
In the fifteenth year of Xiaohou's reign, Quwo Zhuangbo killed the king of Jin Xiaohou in Yicheng.
The Jin people attacked Quwo Zhuangbo, and Zhuangbo returned to Quwo again.
The people of Jin also made Xiaohou's son Qie their king, and he became the Marquis of E.
In the second year of Ehou's reign, Duke Yin of Lu had just ascended the throne.
Ehou passed away in the sixth year of his reign.
When Quwo Zhuangbo heard that the Marquis of E of Jin had passed away, he raised troops to attack the capital of Jin.
King Ping of Zhou sent Duke Guo to lead an army to attack Zhuangbo in Quwo, but Zhuangbo fled back to Quwo to defend himself.
The people of Jin jointly established Guang, the son of Ehou, as the king of the country. This is Aihou.
In the second year of Aihou's reign, Uncle Zhuang of Quwo passed away, and his son succeeded him to the throne. This was Duke Wu of Quwo.
In the sixth year of Aihou's reign, the people of Lu killed their own king, Duke Yin of Lu.
In the eighth year of Aihou's reign, the Jin State invaded Xingting.
Xingting and Quwo Wu Gong planned together. In the ninth year, they arrived at the Fen River to attack Jin and captured Jin Aihou.
So the Jin people made Aihou's son Xiaozi their king, and he became Xiaozihou.
In the first year of Xiaozi's reign, Duke Wu of Quwo ordered Han Wan to kill the captured Jin Aihou.
Quwo became more and more powerful, and Jin had nothing to do with it.
In the fourth year of Jin Xiaozi's reign, Quwo Wu Gong deceived Jin Xiaozi and killed him.
King Huan of Zhou sent Guo Zhong to attack Duke Wu of Quwo. Duke Wu fled back to Quwo, and Marquis Ai of Jin's younger brother Min was made Marquis of Jin.
In the fourth year of Jin Houmin's reign, the Song Dynasty arrested Zheng Zhong's Ji Zhong and forced him to establish Tu as the king of Zheng.
In the 19th year of the Marquis of Jin, the Qi people Guan Zhifu killed his own monarch Qi Xianggong.
In the twenty-eighth year of the Marquis of Jin, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
Duke Wu of Quwo attacked Jin Hou Min, destroyed Jin, and dedicated all the treasures of Jin to King Zhouli. King Li appointed Duke Wu of Quwo as the king of Jin and listed him as a prince, so Duke Wu annexed the entire land of Jin and made it his own.
Duke Wu of Quwo had been on the throne for thirty-seven years before he changed his title to Duke Wu of Jin.
Duke Wugong of Jin began to move to the capital of Jin State, including the previous accession to the throne in Quwo, for a total of thirty-eight years.
Duke Wu claimed to be the great-grandson of the late king Muhou of Jin and the grandson of Uncle Huan Quwo.
Uncle Huan was the first to be granted the title of Quwo.
Duke Wu is the son of Uncle Zhuang.
It was a total of sixty-seven years from the time when Uncle Huan was first granted the title of Quwo to the time when Duke Wu destroyed the state of Jin. Duke Wu finally replaced the state of Jin and became a vassal.
Duke Wu died in the second year after he replaced the king of Jin. Including his reign in Quwo, he died in a total of thirty-nine years.
His son Xian Gong Gui Zhu came to the throne. In the first year of Xian AD, King Hui of Zhou's brother Tuan attacked King Hui. King Hui fled and lived in Liyi of Zheng State.
In the fifth year, Duke Xian of Jin attacked Li Rong and obtained Li Ji and Li Ji's sister, whom he loved very much. In the eighth year of the Jin Dynasty, many princes from Jin State had fled to Guo State. Therefore, Guo Gong once again attacked Jin State, but failed to win.
In the tenth year of Xiangong's reign, Jin wanted to attack Guo, but Shi Jiang said: Let's wait until it has its own civil strife!
In the twelfth year, Li Ji gave birth to Xi Qi.
Duke Xian planned to depose the prince, so he said: Quwo is the place where the ancestral temple of our ancestors is located, while Pu is close to Qin and Qu is close to Zhai. If the princes are not allowed to guard those places, I will be worried.
So Duke Xian asked Prince Shen Sheng to garrison Quwo, Prince Chong'er to garrison Pu, and Prince Yiwu to garrison Qu.
Xi Qi, the son of Duke Xian and Li Ji, lived in Jiang, the capital of the country.
Therefore, the people of Jin knew that the prince would not be able to ascend the throne.
Prince Shen Sheng's mother was Qi Huangong's daughter, named Qi Jiang, who had died long ago.
Shen Sheng's half-sister is Mrs. Mu Gong of Qin.
Chong'er's mother was a woman of the Hu family in Zhai.
Yiwu's mother is the sister of Chong'er's mother.
Duke Xian had eight sons in total. Prince Shen Sheng, Chong'er, and Yi Wu were all virtuous and of high moral character.
After Duke Xiang had Li Ji, he alienated his three sons.
In the 16th year, Duke Xiang of Jin established two armies.
Xian Gong commanded the upper army, Prince Shen Sheng commanded the lower army, Zhao Su drove the chariot, and Bi Wan served as the right guard. They successively conquered and destroyed Huo, Wei, and Geng.
After the whole army returned to Jin, Xian Gong helped the prince build a city in Quwo, gave the land of Geng to Zhao Su, and gave the land of Wei to Bi Wan, making them officials.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
士蒍曰： 太子不得立矣。
分之都城，而位以卿，先为之极，又安得立！
不如逃之，无使罪至。
为吴太伯，不亦可乎，犹有令名。
太子不从。
卜偃曰： 毕万之后必大。
万，盈数也；魏，大名也。
以是始赏，天开之矣。
天子曰兆民，诸侯曰万民，今命之大，以从盈数，其必有众。
初，毕万卜仕于晋国，遇《屯》之《比》。
辛廖占之曰： 吉。《屯》固《比》入，吉孰大焉。
其后必蕃昌。
十七年，晋侯使太子申生伐东山。
里克谏献公曰： 太子奉冢祀社稷之粢盛，以朝夕视君膳者也，故曰冢子。
君行则守，有守则从。从曰抚军，守曰监国，古之制也。
夫率师，专行谋也；誓军旅，君与国政之所图也：非太子之事也。
师在制命而已，禀命则不威，专命则不孝，故君之嗣适不可以帅师。
君失其官，率师不威，将安用之？
公曰： 寡人有子，未知其太子谁立。
里克不对而退，见太子。
太子曰： 吾其废乎？
里克曰： 太子勉之！教以军旅，不共是惧，何故废乎？
且子惧不孝，毋惧不得立。
修己而不责人，则免于难。
太子帅师，公衣之偏衣，佩之金玦。
里克谢病，不从太子。
太子遂伐东山。
十九年，献公曰： 始吾先君庄伯、武公之诛晋乱，而虢常助晋伐我，又匿晋亡公子，果为乱。弗诛，后遗子孙忧。
translation: 
Shilai said: Prince, you can no longer be established as king.
Duke Xian gave you all the capital of the late monarch and granted you the title of minister. He raised your salary to the extreme in advance. How could he make you the king again?
The prince might as well run away to avoid disaster.
Isn’t it okay for the prince to imitate Taibo Wu? In this way, you can still get a good reputation.
The prince did not listen.
Guo Yan, the doctor who conducted divination, said: Bi Wan's descendants must have great development.
Ten thousand means a full number; Wei means vast.
The reward of Wei was given to Bi Wan because God was blessing Bi Wan.
The emperor has tens of thousands of people, and the princes have tens of thousands of people. Now that Biwan is enfeoffed in the vast land of Wei, to match the full number in his name, he will definitely get many subjects.
At first, Bi Wan was divining his own official fortune in the Jin Kingdom, and encountered the "Tuen Gua" and evolved it into the "Bi Gua".
Xin Liao's divination said: This is auspicious. The "Tun" hexagram predicts solidity and depth. Nothing is more auspicious than this.
His descendants will surely prosper.
In the seventeenth year, the Marquis of Jin asked Prince Shen Sheng to attack the Gaoluo clan in Dongshan.
Rick came to admonish Duke Xian and said: The prince is the one who offers sacrifices to the ancestral temple and the country, and checks the king's meals in the morning and evening, so he is called Zhongzi.
When the monarch wants to travel, the prince should stay behind. If someone stays behind on his behalf, the prince should follow. Following the monarch when going out is called Fujun, and staying behind in the capital is called supervising the country. This is an ancient system.
The commander-in-chief of the army must concentrate on planning; issuing orders to the army is the sole responsibility of the monarch and his ministers, not the prince's business.
The command of the army lies in obeying the general's orders. If the prince has to ask the king for instructions when everything happens, there is no dignity; if he acts arbitrarily, it is unfilial. Therefore, the king's legitimate son cannot command the army.
It is wrong for the king to appoint the prince as the commander of the army. Commanding the army will make the prince lose his majesty. How can he be reused in the future?
Duke Xiang said: I have several sons, but I have not yet decided who will be the crown prince.
Rick withdrew without answering and went to see the prince.
The prince asked: Am I going to be deposed?
Rick said: "Prince, please work hard. I will let you command the army. What I am afraid of is that I will not be able to complete the task. Why should I abolish you?"
Moreover, as a son of man, you should be afraid that you will not be able to fulfill your filial piety, and you should not be afraid that you will not be able to be established as a king.
If you pay attention to your own moral cultivation and do not blame others, you can avoid disasters.
The prince commanded the army, and Duke Xian asked him to wear separate clothes of different colors on the left and right, and wear a golden jue.
Rick said he was sick and did not follow the prince.
The prince then went to attack Dongshan.
In the 19th year, Duke Xian said: When our ancestors Zhuang Bo and Wu Ping quelled the turmoil in Jin, Guo often helped Jin to attack us, and also hid the escaped princes of Jin. If they really rebelled and did not attack us, they would leave future troubles for their descendants.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
乃使荀息以屈产之乘假道于虞。
虞假道，遂伐虢，取其下阳以归。
献公私谓骊姬曰： 吾欲废太子，以傒齐代之。
骊姬泣曰： 太子之立，诸侯皆已知之，而数将兵，百姓附之，奈何以贱妾之故废适立庶？君必行之，妾自杀也。
骊姬详誉太子，而阴令人谮恶太子，而欲立其子。
二十一年，骊姬谓太子曰： 君梦见齐姜，太子速祭曲沃，归厘于君。
太子于是祭其母齐姜于曲沃，上其荐胙于献公。
献公时出猎，置胙于宫中。
骊姬使人置毒药胙中。
居二日，献公从猎来还，宰人上胙献公，献公欲飨之。骊姬从旁止之，曰： 胙所从来远，宜试之。
祭地，地坟；与犬，犬死；与小臣，小臣死。
骊姬泣曰： 太子何忍也！
其父而欲弑代之，况他人乎？
且君老矣，旦暮之人，曾不能待而欲弑之！
谓献公曰： 太子所以然者，不过以妾及傒齐之故。
妾愿子母辟之他国，若早自杀，毋徒使母子为太子所鱼肉也。
始君欲废之，妾犹恨之；至于今，妾殊自失于此。
太子闻之，奔新城。献公怒，乃诛其傅杜原款。
或谓太子曰： 为此药者乃骊姬也，太子何不自辞明之？
太子曰： 吾君老矣，非骊姬，寝不安，食不甘。
即辞之，君且怒之。不可。
或谓太子曰： 可奔他国。
太子曰： 被此恶名以出，人谁内我？
我自杀耳。
十二月戊申，申生自杀于新城。
此时重耳、夷吾来朝。
人或告骊姬曰： 二公子怨骊姬谮è杀太子。
骊姬恐，因谮二公子： 申生之药胙，二公子知之。
二子闻之，恐，重耳走蒲，夷吾走屈，保其城，自备守。
translation: 
Therefore, Duke Xiang asked Xun Xi to drive Qu Chan's four-horse horse to borrow a road from the state of Yu.
The state of Yu agreed to borrow the road, and Jin went to attack the state of Guo, captured Xiayang and returned home.
Duke Xian said to Li Ji privately: I want to depose the crown prince and let Xi Qi take his place.
After hearing this, Li Ji cried and said: The prince has been appointed, the princes have already known it, and the prince has commanded the army many times, and the people have all joined him. How can you abolish the eldest son and establish a concubine just because of me? If you must do this, I can only commit suicide.
Li Ji pretended to praise the prince, but secretly slandered the prince and wanted to make her son the prince.
In the twenty-first year, Li Ji said to the prince: The king once dreamed of Qi Jiang. Prince, you should go to Quwo immediately to sacrifice your mother, and when you come back, offer the meat to the king.
So the prince rushed to Quwo to sacrifice his mother. After returning to the capital of Jin, he presented the gizzard meat to Duke Xian.
Duke Xian went out hunting at that time, so the prince put the meat in the palace.
Li Ji sent people to put poison on the flesh.
Two days later, Duke Xian returned to the palace from hunting. The chef offered the pork belly to Duke Xian. Duke Xian wanted to enjoy it, but Li Ji stopped him and said, "The pork belly comes from a far away place. You should try it."
The cook poured the pork belly on the ground, and the ground protruded; the chef threw the pork belly to the dog, and the dog died immediately after eating it; the cook gave the pork belly to the eunuch, and the eunuch also died.
Li Ji cried and said: Why is the prince so cruel!
Even his own father wanted to kill him to take his place, let alone others?
Besides, you are already old and you only have a few more days left to live. The prince can’t wait to kill you!
Li Ji then said to Duke Xian: The prince did this only because of Xi Qi and me.
We, mother and son, would rather hide in another country or commit suicide early than let my mother and son be killed by the prince in vain.
When you wanted to get rid of him, I opposed you; but today, I realize that I was totally wrong.
After the prince heard about this, he fled to the new city. Duke Xiang was very angry and killed the prince's teacher Du Yuanqian.
Someone said to the prince: "It was Li Ji who put the poison in the flesh. Why doesn't the prince explain it clearly himself?"
The prince said: My father is old. Without Li Ji, he will have trouble sleeping and eating tasteless.
If I tell the truth, my father will definitely be very angry with Li Ji. This won't work.
Someone said to the prince again: Then you should flee to other countries as soon as possible.
The prince said: Who can accept me if I run away with this crime?
I had no choice but to commit suicide.
On Wushen Day in December, Shen Sheng committed suicide in Xincheng.
At this time, Chong'er and Yiwu came to see the king.
Someone told Li Ji: These two young masters hate you for framing and killing the prince.
Li Ji was very frightened, so she spread a rumor to Xiang Gong, saying: Shen Sheng put poison into the flesh of the brachium, and the two young masters knew about it in advance.
Chong'er and Yiwu were also frightened when they heard Li Ji's rumors, so Chong'er ran to Pu and Yiwu ran to Qu and personally protected their cities with tight security.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
初，献公使士蒍为二公子筑蒲、屈城，弗就。
夷吾以告公，公怒士蒍。
士蒍谢曰： 边城少寇，安用之？
退而歌曰： 狐裘蒙茸，一国三公，吾谁适从！
卒就城。
及申生死，二子亦归保其城。
二十二年，献公怒二子不辞而去，果有谋矣，乃使兵伐蒲。
蒲人之宦者勃鞮ī命重耳促自杀。
重耳逾垣，宦者追斩其衣祛。
重耳遂奔翟。
使人伐屈，屈城守，不可下。
是岁也，晋复假道于虞以伐虢。
虞之大夫宫之奇谏虞君曰： 晋不可假道也，是且灭虞。
虞君曰： 晋我同姓，不宜伐我。
宫之奇曰： 太伯、虞仲，太王之子也，太伯亡去，是以不嗣。
虢仲、虢叔，王季之子也，为文王卿士，其记勋在王室，藏于盟府。
将虢是灭，何爱于虞？
且虞之亲能亲于桓、庄之族乎？
桓、庄之族何罪，尽灭之。
虞之与虢，唇之与齿，唇亡则齿寒。
虞公不听，遂许晋。
宫之奇以其族去虞。
其冬，晋灭虢，虢公丑奔周。
还，袭灭虞，虏虞公及其大夫井伯百里傒以媵秦穆姬，而修虞祀。
荀息牵曩所遗虞屈产之乘马奉之献公，献公笑曰： 马则吾马，齿亦老矣！
二十三年，献公遂发贾华等伐屈，屈溃。
夷吾将奔翟。
冀芮曰： 不可，重耳已在矣，今往，晋必移兵伐翟，翟畏晋，祸且及。
不如走梁，梁近于秦，秦强，吾君百岁后可以求入焉。
遂奔梁。
二十五年，晋伐翟，翟以重耳故，亦击晋于啮桑，晋兵解而去。
当此时，晋强，西有河西，与秦接境，北边翟，东至河内。
translation: 
当初，献公让士蒍给两位公子修筑蒲、屈城墙，现在还未修筑成功。
Yi Wu reported this to Duke Xian, who was very angry with Shi Lai.
Shilai apologized and said: There are few bandits in the border city, why do we need to build the city wall?
After Shilai retreated, he sang: The fur of the fox fur coat is scattered. There are three masters in a country. Who will I obey?
Shilai finally repaired the city.
After Shen Sheng died, the two young masters went back to defend their own cities.
In the twenty-second year, Duke Xian was very dissatisfied with the two young masters leaving without saying goodbye. He thought they really had a conspiracy, so he sent troops to attack Pucheng.
There was an eunuch named Bo Di in Pucheng who asked Chong'er to commit suicide immediately.
Chong'er climbed up the wall and escaped. Bo Di chased him and cut off Chong'er's sleeves.
Chong'er was able to escape and reached Zhai.
Duke Xian sent people to attack Qu again, but the people of Qucheng defended with all their strength and were not captured.
This year, the Jin State borrowed a road from Yu to attack Guo.
Gong Zhiqi, the official of the Yu State, advised Yu Jun: "You cannot lend the road to the Jin State, otherwise the Jin State will destroy the Yu State."
Yu Jun said: Jin has the same surname as me, so it should not attack my country.
Gong Zhiqi said: Tai Bo and Yu Zhong were both sons of the King Tai. Tai Bo fled and therefore failed to inherit the throne.
Guo Zhong and Guo Shu were both sons of Wang Ji and ministers of King Wen. Their achievements were recorded in the royal family and kept in the hands of the officials in charge of the alliance.
If you are determined to destroy the Guo State, how can you cherish the Yu State?
Besides, can Jin be closer to the Yu State than to the Uncle Huan and Uncle Zhuang families?
Uncle Huan and Uncle Zhuang's family had no sins, but Jin Jun actually killed them all.
The relationship between Yu State and Guo State is like the relationship between lips and teeth. When the lips are dead and the teeth are cold,
Jun Yu refused to listen to Gong Zhiqi's advice and agreed to the Jin State.
Gong Zhiqi left the Yu Kingdom with his entire family.
In the winter of this year, the Jin State destroyed the Guo State, and Guo Gongchou fled to Zhou Jing.
When the Jin army returned, they attacked and destroyed the State of Yu. They captured the Duke of Yu and his senior officials Jing Bo and Baili Xi as dowries for the Duke's daughter Qin Muji, and sent people to handle the sacrifices of the State of Yu.
Xun Xi gave Xiangong the famous horse that he had given to Yu Jun in the past, and he dedicated it to Xiangong. Xiangong smiled and said: "The horse is still my horse, but it is also old!"
In the twenty-third year, Duke Xian sent Jia Hua and others to attack Qucheng, and all the people in Qucheng fled.
Yi Wu planned to flee to Zhai.
Ji Rui said, "No, Chong'er is already there. If you go today, Jin will definitely mobilize troops to attack Zhai. Zhai is afraid of Jin, and disaster will endanger you."
You might as well flee to Liang. Liang is close to Qin and Qin is strong. After our king dies, you can ask Qin to send you back.
So Yiwu ran to Liang State.
In the twenty-fifth year, the state of Jin attacked the state of Zhai. Because of Chong'er, the state of Zhai also attacked the state of Jin from Zhisang. As a result, the state of Jin retreated.
During this period, the Jin State became stronger, occupying Hexi to the west, bordering Qin State, Zhai State to the north, and Hanoi to the east.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
骊姬弟生悼子。
二十六年夏，齐桓公大会诸侯于葵丘。
晋献公病，行后，未至，逢周之宰孔。
宰孔曰： 齐桓公益骄，不务德而务远略，诸侯弗平。
君弟毋会，毋如晋何。
献公亦病，复还归。
病甚，乃谓荀息曰： 吾以傒齐为后，年少，诸大臣不服，恐乱起，子能立之乎？ 荀息曰： 能。
献公曰： 何以为验？
对曰： 使死者复生，生者不惭，为之验。
于是遂属傒齐于荀息。
荀息为相，主国政。
秋九月，献公卒。
里克、邳郑欲内重耳，以三公子之徒作乱，谓荀息曰： 三怨将起，秦、晋辅之，子将何如？
荀息曰： 吾不可负先君言。
十月，里克杀傒齐于丧次，献公未葬也。
荀息将死之，或曰不如立傒齐弟悼子而傅之，荀息立悼子而葬献公。
十一月，里克弑悼子于朝，荀息死之。
君子曰： 《诗》所谓 白圭之玷，犹可磨也，斯言之玷，不可为也 ，其荀息之谓乎！
不负其言。
初，献公将伐骊戎，卜曰 齿牙为祸 。
及破骊戎，获骊姬，爱之，竟以乱晋。
里克等已杀傒齐、悼子，使人迎公子重耳于翟，欲立之。
重耳谢曰： 负父之命出奔，父死不得修人子之礼侍丧，重耳何敢入！大夫其更立他子。
还报里克，里克使迎夷吾于梁。
夷吾欲往，吕省、郄芮曰： 内犹有公子可立者而外求，难信。
计非之秦，辅强国之威以入，恐危。
乃使郄芮厚赂秦，约曰： 即得入，请以晋河西之地与秦。
及遗里克书曰： 诚得立，请遂封子于汾阳之邑。
秦缪公乃发兵送夷吾于晋。
齐桓公闻晋内乱，亦率诸侯如晋。
秦兵与夷吾亦至晋，齐乃使隰朋会秦俱入夷吾，立为晋君，是为惠公。
齐桓公至晋之高梁而还归。
惠公夷吾元年，使邳郑谢秦曰： 始夷吾以河西地许君，今幸得入立。
大臣曰： 地者先君之地，君亡在外，何以得擅许秦者？
寡人争之弗能得，故谢秦。
亦不与里克汾阳邑，而夺之权。
四月，周襄王使周公忌父会齐、秦大夫共礼晋惠公。
惠公以重耳在外，畏里克为变，赐里克死。谓曰： 微里子寡人不得立。
虽然，子亦杀二君一大夫，为子君者不亦难乎？
translation: 
Li Ji's sister gave birth to a son.
In the summer of the twenty-sixth year, Duke Huan of Qi held a grand alliance meeting with the princes in Kuiqiu.
Duke Xiang of Jin left late due to illness. Before he arrived at Kuiqiu, he met Zai Kong of Zhou Dynasty.
Zaikong said: Duke Huan of Qi has become more and more arrogant and domineering. He does not try his best to practice virtuous government but tries every means to invade far away places. The princes are not satisfied.
It's better not to go. Duke Huan of Qi can't do anything to Jin.
In addition, Xian Gong was ill and returned to Jin.
Soon, Duke Xiang fell seriously ill, so he said to Xun Xi: I asked Xi Qi to inherit the throne, but he is still young and the ministers are not convinced. I am afraid there will be trouble. Can you support him? Xun Xi said: Yes.
Duke Xian said: "What do you use as proof?"
Xun Xi replied: Even if you come back after death, I will still not feel ashamed when I am alive. This is the proof.
Therefore, Duke Xian entrusted Xi Qi to Xun Xi.
Xun Xi served as the prime minister and presided over state affairs.
In the ninth month of autumn, Duke Xiang passed away.
Rick and Pi Zheng wanted to take Chong'er back and use the three princes' followers to cause trouble, so they said to Xun Xi: The three resentful families are about to cause trouble. There are Qin people outside and Jin people inside to help them. What are you going to do?
Xun Xi said: I cannot break my promise to the late king.
In October, Rick killed Xi Qi in the mourning place. At that time, Duke Xian had not yet been buried.
Xun Xi planned to die, but someone suggested that he should make Xi Qi's younger brother mourn his son and assist him. Xun Xi then made a mourning son and buried Duke Xian.
In November, Rick killed his mourning son in the court, and Xun Xi also committed suicide.
The gentleman said: "The Book of Songs" says that if a white stone has spots, it can be polished, but if it is wrong, it cannot be saved. This is Xun Xi!
Xun Xi did not break his promise.
At the beginning, when Duke Xian was about to attack Li Rong, Turtle Bu said, "Slanderous words can cause harm."
After defeating Li Rong and getting Li Ji, Duke Xian doted on her so much that he actually caused chaos in the Jin Kingdom.
Rick and others have killed Xi Qi and Dao Zi, and sent people to Zhai State to welcome the young master Chong'er, intending to support him.
Chong'er thanked him and said: "I escaped from Jin against my father's orders. After my father passed away, I couldn't attend the funeral according to the etiquette of a son. How could I dare to return to my country and take the throne? Please ask the doctor to appoint someone else instead."
The person sent came back to report to Rick, who sent someone to Liang Kingdom to meet Yi Wu.
Yiwu wanted to return to Jin, but Lu Sheng and Cherui said: "It is hard to believe that there are still young masters in the country who can ascend the throne, but they go abroad to find them."
I guess it would be very dangerous not to go to Qin in order to use the power of a powerful country to return to Jin.
So Yiwu asked Cherui to bribe Qin with generous gifts, and agreed: If I can return to Jin, I am willing to dedicate Hexi of Jin to Qin.
Yiwu also wrote a letter to Rick saying: If I can really ascend the throne, I am willing to seal the city of Fenyang to you.
Duke Mu of Qin sent troops to escort Yi Wu back to Jin.
When Duke Huan of Qi heard about the civil strife in Jin, he also led the princes to Jin.
The Qin army and Yi Wu also arrived at the Jin State at this time. The Qi State asked Peng Peng to join the Qin State in sending Yi Wu back to the Jin State and made him the king of Jin. This is Hui Gong.
Duke Huan of Qi returned to Qi after arriving at Gaoliang of Jin.
In the first year of Yiwu, Hui Gong sent Pi Zheng to apologize to the King of Qin and said: I promised you the land of Hexi. Now I am fortunate to return to the country and become the king.
The minister said: The land was left by the ancestors. You are on the run, so why should you arbitrarily grant it to Qin?
My efforts were in vain, so I apologized to Qin.
At the same time, Yiwu did not grant Fenyang City to Rick, but instead took away his power.
In April, King Zhou Xiang sent Duke Zhou's father-in-law to meet the officials of Qi and Qin to visit Duke Hui of Jin.
Because Chong'er was on the run, Duke Hui was afraid that Rick would launch a coup, so he ordered Rick to die and said to him: Without you Rick, I cannot ascend the throne.
Even so, you have also killed two kings and a high official. Isn’t it too difficult to be your king?


Chunk 6: 
original: 
里克对曰： 不有所废，君何以兴？
欲诛之，其无辞乎？
乃言为此！
臣闻命矣。
遂伏剑而死。
于是邳郑使谢秦未还，故不及难。
晋君改葬恭太子申生。
秋，狐突之下国，遇申生，申生与载而告之曰： 夷吾无礼，余得请于帝，将以晋与秦，秦将祀余。
狐突对曰： 臣闻神不食非其宗，君其祀毋乃绝乎？
君其图之。
申生曰： 诺，吾将复请帝。
后十日，新城西偏将有巫者见我焉。
许之，遂不见。
及期而往，复见，申生告之曰： 帝许罚有罪矣，弊于韩。
儿乃谣曰： 恭太子更葬矣，后十四年，晋亦不昌，昌乃在兄。
邳郑使秦，闻里克诛，乃说秦缪公曰： 吕省、郄称、冀芮实为不从。
若重赂与谋，出晋君，入重耳，事必就。
秦缪公许之，使人与归报晋，厚赂三子。
三子曰： 币厚言甘，此必邳郑卖我于秦。
遂杀邳郑及里克、邳郑之党七舆大夫。
邳郑子豹奔秦，言伐晋，缪公弗听。
惠公之立，倍秦地及里克，诛七舆大夫，国人不附。
二年，周使召公过礼晋惠公，惠公礼倨，召公讥之。
四年，晋饥，乞籴í于秦。
缪公问百里傒，百里傒曰： 天灾流行，国家代有，救灾恤邻，国之道也。
与之。
邳郑子豹曰： 伐之。
缪公曰： 其君是恶，其民何罪！
卒与粟，自雍属绛。
五年，秦饥，请籴于晋。
晋君谋之，庆郑曰： 以秦得立，已而倍其地约。
晋饥而秦贷我，今秦饥请籴，与之何疑？
而谋之！
translation: 
Rick replied: How can you rise up without destroying the first?
You want to kill me, can't you find an excuse?
You actually said such a thing!
I just obey.
After saying that, Rick committed suicide with his sword.
However, Pi Zheng was spared this difficulty because he went to Qin to apologize and did not come back.
Jin Jun re-interred Prince Shen Sheng according to etiquette.
In autumn, the fox suddenly arrived in Quwo and met Shen Sheng's ghost. Shen Sheng asked him to ride with him and told him: "Yi and I are rude. I want to ask the Emperor of Heaven to give the entire Jin to Qin, and Qin will sacrifice to me."
Hutu replied: I heard that gods do not enjoy sacrifices that are not from one's own clan. So, wouldn't your sacrifices be cut off?
Please think about it carefully!
Shen Sheng said: Well, I want to ask the Emperor of Heaven again.
Ten days later, a shaman will appear to me in the west of the new city.
Hu Tu agreed to Shen Sheng, and Shen Sheng disappeared.
When Hutu went to the west of Xincheng as scheduled, he saw Shen Sheng. Shen Sheng told him: The Emperor of Heaven has promised to punish the sinners, and he will be defeated in Han Yuan.
So the children sang a song: Prince Gong has been reburied. In the next fourteen years, the Kingdom of Jin will not be prosperous. The prosperity is his elder brother.
Pi Zheng was sent to Qin as an envoy. When he heard that Rick had been killed, he said to Duke Mu of Qin: "Lu Province, Quecheng, and Ji Rui are indeed unwilling to bribe Qin with Hexi."
If we can bribe them with some property, negotiate with them, drive away the king of Jin, and send Chong'er back to Jin, then things will definitely succeed.
Duke Mu of Qin agreed to him, and sent him and Pi Zheng to return to Jin, and bribed the three of them with large sums of money.
The three of them said: "We are rich and talkative. Pi Zheng must have betrayed us to Qin."
So the three of them killed Pi Zheng, Rick, and Doctor Qiyu, Pi Zheng's party member.
Pi Zheng's son Bao fled to Qin and asked Qin to attack Jin, but Duke Mu did not listen.
After Hui Gong ascended the throne, he violated the agreement to give Qin land and grant Li Ke, and killed Qi Yu. The people of Jin were disobedient.
In the second year, Zhou sent Duke Zhao to visit Duke Hui of Jin. Duke Hui was arrogant in etiquette, and Duke Zhao laughed at him.
In the fourth year, there was a famine in Jin State and it begged Qin to buy grain.
Duke Mu of Qin asked Baili Xi, and Baili Xi said: Natural disasters occur frequently and may occur in all countries. It is the moral duty of the country to provide disaster relief and help neighbors.
Jin should be helped.
Pi Zheng's son Bao Que said: We should take this opportunity to attack Jin.
Duke Mu of Qin said: The king of Jin is indeed guilty, but why are the people of Jin guilty?
Qin finally sold the grain to Jin, and the grain was continuously transported from Yongcheng to Jiangcheng of Jin.
Five years later, there was another famine in Qin and asked to buy grain from Jin.
The king of Jin discussed the matter with his ministers, and Qing Zheng said: The king came to the throne with the strength of the Qin State. Later, after you ascended the throne, you broke the oath to give the Qin State the land west of Hexi.
There was a famine in the Jin State, and the Qin State sold us grain. Today, the Qin State is in famine, and they ask to buy Jin State's grain, and we give it to them. Is there any doubt?
Why bother to discuss it?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
虢射曰： 往年天以晋赐秦，秦弗知取而贷我。
今天以秦赐晋，晋其可以逆天乎？
遂伐之。
惠公用虢射谋，不与秦粟，而发兵且伐秦。
秦大怒，亦发兵伐晋。
六年春，秦缪公将兵伐晋。
晋惠公谓庆郑曰： 秦师深矣，奈何？
郑曰： 秦内君，君倍其赂；晋饥秦输粟，秦饥而晋倍之，乃欲因其饥伐之：其深不亦宜乎！
晋卜御右，庆郑皆吉。
公曰： 郑不孙。
乃更令步阳御戎，家仆徒为右，进兵。
九月壬戌，秦缪公、晋惠公合战韩原。
惠公马騺不行，秦兵至，公窘，召庆郑为御。
郑曰： 不用卜，败不亦当乎！
遂去。
更令梁繇靡御，虢射为右，辂秦缪公。
缪公壮士冒败晋军，晋军败，遂失秦缪公，反获晋公以归。
秦将以祀上帝。
晋君姊为缪公夫人，衰绖涕泣。
公曰： 得晋侯将以为乐，今乃如此。
且吾闻箕子见唐叔之初封，曰 其后必当大矣 ，晋庸可灭乎！
乃与晋侯盟王城而许之归。
晋侯亦使吕省等报国人曰： 孤虽得归，毋面目见社稷，卜日立子圉。
晋人闻之，皆哭。
秦缪公问吕省： 晋国和乎？
对曰： 不和。
小人惧失君亡亲，不惮立子圉，曰 必报仇，宁事戎、狄 。
其君子则爱君而知罪，以待秦命，曰 必报德 。
有此二故，不和。
于是秦缪公更舍晋惠公，馈之七牢。
十一月，归晋侯。
晋侯至国，诛庆郑，修政教。
translation: 
Guo She said: Last year, God gave Jin to Qin, but Qin didn't know how to seize Jin and instead sold us grain.
Today, God gave Qin to Jin. Should Jin go against God's will?
Qin should be attacked.
Duke Hui adopted Guo She's plan and instead of giving Qin food, he sent troops to attack Qin.
Duke Mu of Qin was very angry and sent troops to attack Jin.
In the spring of the sixth year, Duke Mu of Qin led an army to attack the state of Jin.
Duke Hui of Jin said to Qing Zheng: The Qin army has penetrated deeply into our country. What should we do?
Qing Zheng said: Qin escorted you back to the country, but you broke the agreement and refused to give Qin land. When Jin was in famine, Qin immediately sent food to help us. When Qin was famine, Jin not only refused to provide aid, but wanted to take the opportunity to attack others. Shouldn't the Qin army go deep into the country today?
The Jin State conducted divination on the people who drove the vehicles and served as escorts, both of whom were Qingzheng Ji.
Duke Hui said: Qing Zheng is a little rude.
So he let Buyang drive the car and his servants served as guards and marched into Qin.
On the day of Renxu in the ninth month, Duke Mu of Qin and Duke Hui of Jin fought in Han Yuan.
Duke Hui's heavy horse was stuck in the mud and could no longer run. When the Qin army arrived, Duke Hui was very embarrassed and asked Qing Zheng to drive the horse.
Qing Zheng said: If you don't follow the divination, shouldn't you also fail?
After saying that, Qingzheng left.
Duke Hui instead asked Liang Yaomi to drive the car, while Guo She served as his guard to attack Duke Mu of Qin.
Duke Mu's brave soldiers defeated the Jin army. The Jin army retreated, allowing Duke Mu of Qin to run away. Instead, the Qin army captured Duke Hui of Jin and brought him back to Qin.
The State of Qin will kill him and sacrifice him to heaven.
Jin Jun's sister is Mrs. Mu Gong. She is wearing mourning clothes and crying.
Duke Mu said: You should be happy to have captured the Marquis of Jin, but now you are sad.
Besides, I heard that Jizi said when he saw Uncle Tang had just been enfeoffed, his descendants would be prosperous. How could Jin be destroyed?
Therefore, Duke Mu of Qin formed an alliance with the Marquis of Jin in the royal city and allowed him to return to Jin.
The Marquis of Jin also sent Lu Sheng and others to report back to the people: Although I can return to Jin, I don't have the face to see Sheji. Let's choose an auspicious day for Ziyu to ascend the throne!
The Jin people cried sadly when they heard this.
Duke Mu of Qin asked Lu Province: Are the people in Jin harmonious?
Lu Sheng replied: There is no harmony.
The people were afraid of losing their king, causing civil strife, and sacrificing their parents, but were not afraid of Ziyu's accession to the throne. They all said: They must avenge this, and would rather serve the Rong and Di.
But those nobles loved their king very much and knew that he was guilty. They were waiting for Qin's order to send the king back. They said: They must repay Qin's kindness to Jin.
Because of these two situations, the state of Jin was not in harmony.
So Duke Mu of Qin changed the residence of Duke Hui of Jin and gave Duke Hui of Jin seven prisons as a gift to sacrifice.
In November, Qin sent Duke Jin back.
After the Marquis of Jin returned to Jin, he killed Qing Zheng and reorganized government affairs.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
谋曰： 重耳在外，诸侯多利内之。
欲使人杀重耳于狄。
重耳闻之，如齐。
八年，使太子圉质秦。
初，惠公亡在梁，梁伯以其女妻之，生一男一女。
梁伯卜之，男为人臣，女为人妾，故名男为圉，女为妾。
十年，秦灭梁。
梁伯好土功，治城沟，民力罢，怨，其众数相惊，曰 秦寇至 ，民恐惑，秦竟灭之。
十三年，晋惠公病，内有数子。
太子圉曰： 吾母家在梁，梁今秦灭之，我外轻于秦而内无援于国。
君即不起，病大夫轻，更立他公子。
乃谋与其妻俱亡归。
秦女曰： 子一国太子，辱在此。
秦使婢子侍，以固子之心。
子亡矣，我不从子，亦不敢言。
子圉遂亡归晋。
十四年九月，惠公卒，太子圉立，是为怀公。
子圉之亡，秦怨之，乃求公子重耳，欲内之。
子圉之立，畏秦之伐也。乃令国中诸从重耳亡者与期，期尽不到者尽灭其家。
狐突之子毛及偃从重耳在秦，弗肯召。
怀公怒，囚狐突。
突曰： 臣子事重耳有年数矣，今召之，是教之反君也。何以教之？
怀公卒杀狐突。
秦缪公乃发兵送内重耳，使人告栾、郄之党为内应，杀怀公于高梁，入重耳。
重耳立，是为文公。
晋文公重耳，晋献公之子也。
自少好士，年十七，有贤士五人：曰赵衰；狐偃咎犯，文公舅也；贾佗；先轸；魏武子。
自献公为太子时，重耳固已成人矣。
献公即位，重耳年二十一。
献公十三年，以骊姬故，重耳备蒲城守秦。
献公二十一年，献公杀太子申生，骊姬谗之，恐，不辞献公而守蒲城。
献公二十二年，献公使宦者履鞮趣杀重耳。
重耳逾垣，宦者逐斩其衣祛。重耳遂奔狄。
狄，其母国也。是时重耳年四十三。
translation: 
Discussed with the ministers: "Chong'er is away, and most of the princes think he is beneficial and receive him."
The king of Jin wanted to send people to Di to kill Chong'er.
Chong'er heard the news and ran to the state of Qi.
In the eighth year, Duke Hui of Jin asked Prince Yu to serve as a hostage in the state of Qin.
When Duke Hui fled to Liang State, Liang Bo married his daughter to Duke Hui and gave birth to a boy and a girl.
Uncle Liang divined for them that the boy would be a minister and the girl would be a concubine, so the boy was named Yuan and the girl was named concubine.
In ten years, Qin State destroyed Liang State.
Liang Bo liked to build large-scale construction projects and build cities and ditches. The people were exhausted and complained. They frightened each other many times and said, "The Qin army is coming." The people were too frightened, and Qin finally destroyed Liang.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Hui of Jin fell ill. He had several sons.
Prince Yu said: My mother's natal family is in Liang. Today Liang is destroyed by Qin. I am despised by Qin abroad and has no help at home.
My father is seriously ill and bedridden. I am worried that the Jin officials will look down on me and ask me to make another prince the prince instead.
So Prince Yu and his wife discussed escaping back together.
The Qin woman who served the prince said: "You are the prince of a country, and you are being humiliated here."
The King of Qin asked me to serve you in order to stabilize your heart.
You can run away, I won't drag you down, and I won't make it public.
Prince Yu then ran back to Jin.
In September of the fourteenth year, Duke Hui of Jin passed away and Prince Yu came to the throne. This was Duke Huai.
Prince Yu escaped, and Duke Mu of Qin was very angry, so he approached Prince Chong'er and wanted to escort him back to become the king.
After Prince Yu came to the throne, he was worried that Qin would come back to attack Jin, so he ordered those who fled with Chong'er from Jin to return to Jin on time. If he failed to return within the time limit, his entire family would be killed.
Hutu's sons Mao and Yan both followed Chong'er in Qin, but Hutu refused to call them back.
Duke Huai was very unhappy and imprisoned Hutu.
Hu Tu said: My son has served Chong'er for many years. Today you ordered him to be called back. This is turning them against their own monarch. How can I educate them in the future?
Duke Huai finally killed Hutu.
Duke Mu of Qin then sent an army to escort Chong'er back to the state of Jin. He sent people to notify the party members in Luanzhi and Quegu to act as internal agents, killed Duke Huai of Jin in Gaoliang, and sent Chong'er back.
When Chong'er came to the throne, he was Duke Wen.
Duke Wen of Jin, Chong'er, was the son of Duke Xian of Jin.
Since childhood, he has liked to make friends with virtuous scholars. At the age of seventeen, he had five friends with high moral character and outstanding talents: Zhao Shuai; Hu Yan Jiufun, who was Wen Gong's uncle; Jia Tuo;
Chong'er had grown up since Duke Xian became the crown prince.
When Duke Xiang came to the throne, Chong'er was twenty-one years old.
In the thirteenth year of Xiangong's reign, Chong'er lived in Pucheng to defend Qin because of Li Ji.
In the 21st year of Xiangong's reign, Xiangong killed Prince Shen Sheng. Li Ji slandered and framed Chong'er. Chong'er was frightened and ran back to Pucheng to defend himself without saying goodbye.
In the twenty-second year of Xiangong's reign, Xiangong asked the eunuch Lu Ting to kill Chong'er quickly.
Chong'er climbed the wall to escape, but the eunuchs chased him and cut off Chong'er's sleeves.
Chong'er fled to the state of Di. Di is the homeland of Chong'er's mother. At this time Chong'er was forty-three years old.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
从此五士，其余不名者数十人，至狄。
狄伐咎如，得二女：以长女妻重耳，生伯鯈、叔刘；以少女妻赵衰，生盾。
居狄五岁而晋献公卒，里克已杀傒齐、悼子，乃使人迎，欲立重耳。
重耳畏杀，因固谢，不敢入。
已而晋更迎其弟夷吾立之，是为惠公。
惠公七年，畏重耳，乃使宦者履鞮与壮士欲杀重耳。
重耳闻之，乃谋赵衰等曰： 始吾奔狄，非以为可用与，以近易通，故且休足。
休足久矣，固愿徙之大国。
夫齐桓公好善，志在霸王，收恤诸侯。
今闻管仲、隰朋死，此亦欲得贤佐，盍往乎？
于是遂行。
重耳谓其妻曰： 待我二十五年不来，乃嫁。
其妻笑曰： 犁二十五年，吾冢上柏大矣。
虽然，妾待子。
重耳居狄凡十二年而去。
过卫，卫文公不礼。
去，过五鹿，饥而从野人乞食，野人盛土器中进之。
重耳怒。赵衰曰： 土者，有土也，君其拜受之。
至齐，齐桓公厚礼，而以宗女妻之，有马二十乘，重耳安之。
重耳至齐二岁而桓公卒，会竖刀等为内乱，齐孝公之立，诸侯兵数至。
留齐凡五岁。
重耳爱齐女，毋去心。
赵衰、咎犯乃于桑下谋行。
齐女侍者在桑上闻之，以告其主。
其主乃杀侍者，劝重耳趣行。
重耳曰： 人生安乐，孰知其他！必死于此，不能去。
齐女曰： 子一国公子，穷而来此，数士者以子为命。
子不疾反国，报劳臣，而怀女德，窃为子羞之。
且不求，何时得功？
乃与赵衰等谋，醉重耳，载以行。
行远而觉，重耳大怒，引戈欲杀咎犯。
咎犯曰： 杀臣成子，偃之愿也。
重耳曰： 事不成，我食舅氏之肉。
咎犯曰： 事不成，犯肉腥臊，何足食！
乃止，遂行。
translation: 
Since then, five of his friends, as well as dozens of unknown people, have come to Di with him.
Di conquered Jiuru and captured two of Jiuru's women. He married the older woman to Chong'er and gave birth to Bomin and Shuliu. He married the younger woman to Zhao Shuai and gave birth to Dun.
Chong'er lived in Di for five years, and Duke Xian of Jin passed away. Rick had killed Xi Qi and Daozi, and asked people to welcome Chong'er, hoping to make Chong'er the king.
Chong'er was worried that he would be killed, so he resolutely refused and did not dare to return to Jin.
Later, the Jin State welcomed Chong'er's younger brother Yiwu and supported him. This was Duke Hui.
In the seventh year of Duke Hui, Duke Hui was afraid that Chong'er would weaken his throne, so he asked the eunuch Lu Ding to lead the warriors to murder Chong'er.
After Chong'er learned about the situation, he discussed with Zhao Shui and others: I fled to Di not because it could help me, but because it was short and easy to reach, so I stayed here temporarily.
After resting here for a long time, I hope to move to a big country.
Duke Huan of Qi liked good deeds, was determined to dominate, and was considerate of the princes.
Now that I have heard that Guan Zhong and Xi Peng have passed away, and Duke Huan of Qi is also eager to recruit capable people to assist him in his hegemony, why don't we go there?
So, Chong'er embarked on the road to Qi State again.
When leaving Di, Chong'er said to his wife: If I don't come back in twenty-five years, you can remarry someone else.
The wife smiled and replied: In twenty-five years, the cypress trees on my grave will have grown up.
Even so, I'm still waiting for you.
Chong'er lived in Digong for twelve years before leaving.
When Chong'er passed by the state of Wei, Duke Wen of Wei did not treat him politely.
After leaving Weiguo, when passing by Wulu, he felt hungry and begged for food from the villagers. The villagers put soil in a container and dedicated it to him.
Chong'er was very unhappy, and Zhao Shui said: Earth symbolizes that you will own land in the future, and you should accept it with courtesy.
When Chong'er arrived in the state of Qi, Duke Huan of Qi entertained him generously, married the daughter of the clan to Chong'er, and accompanied him with twenty four-horse carriages. Chong'er felt very satisfied here.
Chong'er lived in Qi for two years. Duke Huan died. Just as Shu Dao and others started civil strife, Duke Xiao of Qi came to the throne, and the armies of various princes came to invade Qi many times.
Chong'er lived in Qi for a total of five years.
Chong'er fell in love with the wife he married in Qi and had no intention of leaving Qi.
One day Zhao Shui and Jiu were discussing the matter of leaving Qi under a mulberry tree.
Chong'er's wife's maid heard their secret conversation at the mulberry tree and secretly told her master after returning to the house.
Chong'er's wife actually killed the maid and advised Chong'er to leave quickly.
Chong'er said: "Man is born to seek comfort and enjoyment. Why bother with other things? I will die of old age together and cannot leave."
The wife said: You are the son of a country, and you came here when you were desperate. These followers of yours regard you as their life.
You don't return home quickly to repay your hard-working ministers, but you are greedy for women. I am ashamed of you.
Besides, if you don’t pursue it now, when will you succeed?
She, Zhao Shui and others used a trick to get Chong'er drunk and drove him away from Qi State in a car.
After walking for a long time, Chong'er woke up. As soon as he found out the truth of the matter, he became furious and took up arms to kill the culprit.
The criminal said: It is my wish to succeed in your career by killing me.
Chong'er said: If things don't work out, I will eat your flesh.
The offender said: Even if the matter fails, my meat is fishy and smelly, how can it be worth eating by you?
So Chong'er calmed down his anger and continued to move forward.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
过曹，曹共公不礼，欲观重耳骈胁。
曹大夫厘负羁曰： 晋公子贤，又同姓，穷来过我，奈何不礼！
共公不从其谋。
负羁乃私遗重耳食，置璧其下。
重耳受其食，还其璧。
去，过宋。宋襄公新困兵于楚，伤于泓，闻重耳贤，乃以国礼礼于重耳。
宋司马公孙固善于咎犯，曰： 宋小国新困，不足以求入，更之大国。
乃去。
过郑，郑文公弗礼。
郑叔瞻谏其君曰： 晋公子贤，而其从者皆国相，且又同姓。
郑之出自厉王，而晋之出自武王。
郑君曰： 诸侯亡公子过此者众，安可尽礼！
叔瞻曰： 君不礼，不如杀之，且后为国患。
郑君不听。
重耳去之楚，楚成王以适诸侯礼待之，重耳谢不敢当。
赵衰曰： 子亡在外十余年，小国轻子，况大国乎？
今楚大国而固遇子，子其毋让，此天开子也。
遂以客礼见之。
成王厚遇重耳，重耳甚卑。
成王曰： 子即反国，何以报寡人？
重耳曰： 羽毛齿角玉帛，君王所余，未知所以报。
王曰： 虽然，何以报不谷？
重耳曰： 即不得已，与君王以兵车会平原广泽，请辟王三舍。
楚将子玉怒曰： 王遇晋公子至厚，今重耳言不孙，请杀之。
成王曰： 晋公子贤而困于外久，从者皆国器，此天所置，庸可杀乎？
且言何以易之！
居楚数月，而晋太子圉亡秦，秦怨之；闻重耳在楚，乃召之。
成王曰： 楚远，更数国乃至晋。
秦晋接境，秦君贤，子其勉行！
厚送重耳。
translation: 
Chong'er passed by the state of Cao. Duke Cao did not treat him politely and wanted to peek at Chong'er's threats.
Li Ningji, an official of Cao State, said: "Young Master Jin is a wise and capable man, and he has the same surname as us. He passed through our country in poverty. Why is he so rude?"
The public servant did not listen to the advice.
Yingji secretly gave Chong'er food and put a piece of jade under the food.
Chong'er accepted the food and returned the jade to Yingji.
Chong'er left the state of Cao and came to the state of Song. Song Xianggong had just been defeated by the Chu army and was wounded in the battle of Hongshui. Hearing that Chong'er was a wise man, he received Chong'er with the courtesy of a prince.
Sima Gongsun Gu of the Song Dynasty had a good relationship with the criminals and said: The Song Dynasty is a small country and it has just suffered a defeat. It is not enough to help you return home. It is better to go to a big country.
Chong'er and his party then left the Song Dynasty again.
When Chong'er passed by the state of Zheng, Duke Wen of Zheng did not treat him politely.
Doctor Zheng Shuzhan advised the monarch: "The prince of Jin is wise, and his followers are all the pillars of the country, and they have the same surname as us."
The State of Zheng was separated from King Li, and the State of Jin was separated from King Wu.
The king of Zheng said: There are too many young masters who have escaped from the vassal states passing through our country. How can we receive them according to etiquette?
Shuzhan said: "If you don't treat me politely, it's better to kill him, so as not to become a trouble for us in the future."
Zheng Guojun did not listen.
Chong'er left the state of Zheng and went to the state of Chu. King Cheng of Chu entertained him with the courtesy given to princes, but Chong'er declined and did not dare to accept it.
Zhao Shui said: You have been in exile for more than ten years. Small countries despise you, let alone big countries.
Today, Chu is a great country that insists on treating you favorably, so don’t give in. This is God protecting you.
Chong'er then met with King Cheng of Chu according to the etiquette of princes.
King Cheng received Chong'er well, and Chong'er was very humble.
King Cheng said: How will you repay me when you return to China?
Chong'er said: "Your Majesty has many rare birds and animals, pearls, jade, silk and silk. I don't know what gift to repay."
King Cheng said: Even so, you have to repay me with something, right?
Chong'er said: If you have no choice but to encounter you in the plains or lakes and swamps, please stay away for the sake of the king.
Ziyu, the general of the Chu State, said angrily: Your Majesty treats Mr. Jin too well. Today Chong'er made rude remarks. Please kill him.
King Cheng said: Mr. Jin has a noble character, but he has been in exile for too long. His followers are all talents of the country. This is a gift from God. How can he be killed?
Besides, what could he be asked to say instead?
Chong'er lived in Chu for several months, and the prince of Jin, Yu, fled from Qin. Qin resented him and wanted to invite Chong'er to Qin when he heard that Chong'er lived in Chu.
King Cheng said: The State of Chu is far away from the State of Jin, and we have to pass through several countries to reach the State of Jin.
Qin is on the border with Jin, and the king of Qin is very wise. Go to Qin!
King Cheng gave Chong'er many gifts to see him off.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
重耳至秦，缪公以宗女五人妻重耳，故子圉妻与往。
重耳不欲受，司空季子曰： 其国且伐，况其故妻乎！
且受以结秦亲而求入，子乃拘小礼，忘大丑乎！
遂受。
缪公大欢，与重耳饮。
赵衰歌《黍苗》诗。
缪公曰： 知子欲急反国矣。
赵衰与重耳下，再拜曰： 孤臣之仰君，如百谷之望时雨。
是时晋惠公十四年秋。
惠公以九月卒，子圉立。
十一月，葬惠公。
十二月，晋国大夫栾、郄等闻重耳在秦，皆阴来劝重耳、赵衰等反国，为内应甚众。
于是秦缪公乃发兵与重耳归晋。
晋闻秦兵来，亦发兵拒之。
然皆阴知公子重耳入也。
唯惠公之故贵臣吕、郄之属不欲立重耳。
重耳出亡凡十九岁而得入，时年六十二矣，晋人多附焉。
文公元年春，秦送重耳至河。
咎犯曰： 臣从君周旋天下，过亦多矣。
臣犹知之，况于君乎？
请从此去矣。
重耳曰： 若反国，所不与子犯共者，河伯视之！
乃投璧河中，以与子犯盟。
是时介子推从，在船中，乃笑曰： 天实开公子，而子犯以为己功而要市于君，固足羞也。
吾不忍与同位。
乃自隐渡河。
秦兵围令狐，晋军于庐柳。
二月辛丑，咎犯与秦晋大夫盟于郇。
壬寅，重耳入于晋师。
丙午，入于曲沃。
丁未，朝于武宫，即位为晋君，是为文公。
群臣皆往。
怀公圉奔高梁。
戊申，使人杀怀公。
怀公故大臣吕省、郄芮本不附文公，文公立，恐诛，乃欲与其徒谋烧公宫，杀文公。
文公不知。
始尝欲杀文公宦者履鞮知其谋，欲以告文公，解前罪，求见文公。
文公不见，使人让曰： 蒲城之事，女斩予祛。
其后我从狄君猎，女为惠公来求杀我。
惠公与女期三日至，而女一日至，何速也？
translation: 
When Chong'er arrived in Qin, Duke Mu of Qin married five women from the same clan to Chong'er, including the wife of the former Duke Yu.
Chong'er didn't want to accept the young master's expropriation of his wife. Sikong Jizi said: "His country will be attacked, let alone his wife!"
Moreover, you accepted this woman in order to marry Qin and return to Jin. You actually stick to small etiquette and forget the big shame!
Chong'er then accepted the young master's wife.
Duke Mu of Qin was very happy and had a banquet with Chong'er in person.
Zhao Shuai recited the poem "Millet Miao".
Duke Mu of Qin said: I know you want to return to Jin as soon as possible.
Zhao Shui and Chong'er left their seats, thanked them again and said: "We, the helpless ministers, rely on you, just like hundreds of grains looking forward to the good rain that knows the season."
It was the autumn of the fourteenth year of Duke Hui of Jin.
Duke Hui died in the ninth month and Ziyu came to the throne.
In November, Duke Hui of Jin was buried.
In December, Jin officials Luan Zhi, Que Gu and others heard that Chong'er was in Qin, so they secretly came to persuade Chong'er, Zhao Shui and others to return to Jin. There were many people who acted as internal correspondents.
So Duke Mu of Qin sent troops to escort Chong'er back to Jin.
When the king of Jin heard that the Qin army was coming, he also sent troops to resist.
But the people secretly knew that Prince Chong'er was coming back.
Only Hui Gong's old ministers, Lu's nephew and Qerui, were unwilling to let Chong'er ascend the throne.
Chong'er fled for nineteen years and finally returned to Jin. He was sixty-two years old at this time, and most of the Jin people returned to him.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, the State of Qin escorted Chong'er to the bank of the Yellow River.
The offender said: I followed you around the world and made many mistakes.
I know it myself, let alone you?
I beg you to leave from now on.
Chong'er said: If I come back to Jin Dynasty and I don't agree with you, please ask He Bo to testify!
So Chong'er threw the jade into the Yellow River and broke the oath with his son.
At that time, Jie Zitui was also an entourage and was in the boat. He laughed and said: It is true that God is supporting the rise of the young master, but Zifeng thinks it is his own merit and demands it from the king. It is so shameful.
I don't want to be in the same league as him.
After saying that, he hid himself and crossed the Yellow River.
The Qin army surrounded Linghu, and the Jin army was stationed at Luliu.
On the day of Xinchou in the second month, the offender formed an alliance with the officials of Qin and Jin in Xun.
On Renyin day, Chong'er entered the Jin army.
On Bingwu day, Chong'er arrived in Quwo.
On the day of Dingwei, Chong'er went to Wugong to pay homage and ascended the throne as the king of Jin. This was Duke Wen.
The ministers all went to Quwo.
Huai Gongyu fled to Gaoliang.
On Wushen day, Chonger sent people to kill Duke Huai.
Lu Sheng and Cherui, former ministers of Duke Huai, did not join Duke Wen in the first place and were afraid of being killed, so they conspired with their followers to set fire to the palace where Duke Wen lived and kill him.
Duke Wen was completely unaware of this.
However, the eunuch Lu Tie, who had wanted to kill Wen Gong earlier, knew about the plot and wanted to tell Wen Gong about the plot in order to get rid of his earlier sins, so he asked to see Wen Gong.
Duke Wen refused to see him and sent someone to reprimand him: "You cut off my sleeves about Pucheng."
Later, I went hunting with Di Jun, and you tracked and killed me for Hui Gong.
Hui Gong promised you three days to arrive, but you arrived in one day. How fast?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
女其念之。
宦者曰： 臣刀锯之余，不敢以二心事君倍主，故得罪于君。
君已反国，其毋蒲、翟乎？
且管仲射钩，桓公以霸。
今刑余之人以事告而君不见，祸又且及矣。
于是见之，遂以吕、郄等告文公。
文公欲召吕、郄，吕、郄等党多，文公恐初入国，国人卖己，乃为微行，会秦缪公于王城，国人莫知。
三月己丑，吕、郄等果反，焚公宫，不得文公。
文公之卫徒与战，吕、郄等引兵欲奔，秦缪公诱吕、郄等，杀之河上，晋国复而文公得归。
夏，迎夫人于秦，秦所与文公妻者卒为夫人。
秦送三千人为卫，以备晋乱。
文公修政，施惠百姓。赏从亡者及功臣，大者封邑，小者尊爵。
未尽行赏，周襄王以弟带难出居郑地，来告急晋。
晋初定，欲发兵，恐他乱起，是以赏从亡未至隐者介子推。
推亦不言禄，禄亦不及。
推曰： 献公子九人，唯君在矣。
惠、怀无亲，外内弃之；天未绝晋，必将有主，主晋祀者，非君而谁？
天实开之，二三子以为己力，不亦诬乎？
窃人之财，犹曰是盗，况贪天之功以为己力乎？
下冒其罪，上赏其奸，上下相蒙，难与处矣！
其母曰： 盍亦求之，以死谁怼ì？
推曰： 尤而效之，罪有甚焉。
且出怨言，不食其禄。
母曰： 亦使知之，若何？
对曰： 言，身之文也；身欲隐，安用文之？
文之，是求显也。
其母曰： 能如此乎？
与女偕隐。
至死不复见。
translation: 
Think about it carefully.
The eunuch said: I am a person who has been castrated. I dare not serve the king half-heartedly or betray my master, so I have offended you.
You have returned to China. Is this the case with Pu and Zhai in the Han Dynasty?
Moreover, Guan Zhong shot Duke Huan of Qi's hook, but Duke Huan still relied on Guan Zhong to dominate.
Today, I, a sinner, want to tell you something important, but you don't see it, and disaster will befall you again.
So Wen Gong met him, and he told Wen Gong in detail about the plot of Lu Nephew, Qerui and others.
Duke Wen wanted to summon Lu and Que, but Lu, Que and others had many followers. Duke Wen was worried that the people of the country might betray him just after he returned, so he hid his identity and went to the royal city to meet with Duke Mu of Qin. The people of the country were completely unaware of his actions.
On Jichou Day in March, Lu, Que and others rebelled and burned down the palace where Wen Gong lived, but did not find Wen Gong.
Duke Wen's guards fought with them, but Lu, Que, and others wanted to lead their troops to escape. Duke Mu of Qin seduced Lu, Que, and others, and killed them on the banks of the Yellow River. The state of Jin returned to peace, and Duke Wen was able to return to Jin.
In the summer, Duke Wen took his wife back from Qin, and the wife given to him by Qin finally became his wife.
Qin also sent 3,000 people as guards to guard against civil strife in Jin.
Duke Wen fixed up government affairs, extended favors to the people, and rewarded those who had fled and meritorious ministers. Those who had made great achievements were granted the title of city, and those who had made minor merits were awarded titles.
Before Duke Wen could finish the reward, King Xiang of Zhou was forced to live in Zheng State because his younger brother, the prince, had led him to escape, so he came to Jin State to ask for help.
The Jin Kingdom had just settled down and wanted to send troops, but was worried about unrest in the country. Therefore, Duke Wen rewarded the fugitives who followed him before it was his turn to hide Jie Zitui.
Jie Zitui did not ask for a salary, and it was not his turn to receive a salary.
Jie Zitui said: Duke Xian has nine sons, only the king is still alive.
Duke Hui and Duke Huai had no close followers, and they were despised both at home and abroad. God had not allowed Jin to perish, so there must be a monarch. Who else could preside over Jin's sacrifices besides the monarch?
God is indeed helping you to rise, but isn't it ridiculous for two or three people to think that they are the ones who took the credit?
If someone steals someone else's property, he can still be called a thief. How much more can he say that he is a thief who is greedy for God's merit and thinks that he is his own merit?
The subordinates cover up their sins, the Lord rewards the traitors, and the superiors and subordinates deceive each other. It is difficult for me to get along with them!
Jiejietui's mother said: "Why don't you also ask for a reward? Who will you blame if you die?"
Jie Zitui said: I hate those people, and if I imitate their behavior, the sin will be even greater.
Besides, I have already expressed my complaint and will never eat his salary.
Mother said: How about letting Mr. Wen know about your situation?
Jie Zitui replied: Words are flower decorations on everyone's body. The body wants to be hidden, so why use flower decorations anymore?
Putting on floral decorations is about showing yourself off.
Jie Zitui's mother said, "Can I do what you said?"
Then I'll hide with you.
Mother and son never showed up again until their deaths.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
介子推从者怜之，乃悬书宫门曰： 龙欲上天，五蛇为辅。
龙已升云，四蛇各入其宇，一蛇独怨，终不见处所。
文公出，见其书，曰： 此介子推也。
吾方忧王室，未图其功。
使人召之，则亡。
遂求所在，闻其入绵上山中，于是文公环绵上山中而封之，以为介推田，号曰介山， 以记吾过，且旌善人 。
从亡贱臣壶叔曰： 君三行赏，赏不及臣，敢请罪。
文公报曰： 夫导我以仁义，防我以德惠，此受上赏。
辅我以行，卒以成立，此受次赏。
矢石之难，汗马之劳，此复受次赏。
若以力事我而无补吾缺者，此复受次赏。
三赏之后，故且及子。
晋人闻之，皆说。
二年春，秦军河上，将入王。
赵衰曰： 求霸莫如入王尊周。
周晋同姓，晋不先入王，后秦入之，毋以令于天下。
方今尊王，晋之资也。
三月甲辰，晋乃发兵至阳樊，围温，入襄王于周。
四月，杀王弟带。
周襄王赐晋河内阳樊之地。
四年，楚成王及诸侯围宋，宋公孙固如晋告急。
先轸曰： 报施定霸，于今在矣。
狐偃曰： 楚新得曹而初婚于卫，若伐曹、卫，楚必救之，则宋免矣。
于是晋作三军。赵衰举郄縠将中军，郄臻佐之；使狐偃将上军，狐毛佐之，命赵衰为卿；栾枝将下军，先轸佐之；荀林父御戎，魏犫为右：往伐。
冬十二月，晋兵先下山东，而以原封赵衰。
五年春，晋文公欲伐曹，假道于卫，卫人弗许。
还自河南度，侵曹，伐卫。
translation: 
Jie Zitui's followers felt pity for him, so they hung a sign at the entrance of the palace, which read: If a dragon wants to go to heaven, it needs the help of five snakes.
The dragon has gone deep into the clouds, and the four snakes have each entered their own palaces. Only one snake is sad and resentful alone, and ultimately cannot find its own place.
When Duke Wen came out of the palace, he saw these words and said: This is Jie Zitui.
I was worried about the royal family and had not yet been able to consider his merits.
So Duke Wen sent someone to call Jie Zitui, but Jie Zitui had already escaped.
Duke Wen asked about Jie Zitui's residence and heard that he had entered Mianshang Mountain. So, Duke Wen sealed the entire Mianshang Mountain to Jie Zitui, and called it Jie Tui Field as his fief, and named it Jieshan, in order to record my sins and commend talented people.
Uncle Hu, an incompetent man who fled with Duke Wen, said: Your Majesty, you have rewarded the meritorious officials three times but it has not been my turn. May I ask what I am guilty of?
Duke Wen reported back: Teach me with benevolence and righteousness, advise me with morality and kindness, and you should be highly rewarded.
Assisting me with actions finally brought me success, which deserves a lesser reward.
He took on the danger of bows and arrows and made great contributions to me, which should be rewarded again.
If you only use your labor to serve me without making up for my mistakes, you should be rewarded again.
After these three rewards are over, it will be your turn.
The people of Jin were very happy when they heard Duke Wen's words.
In the spring of the second year, the Qin army was stationed by the Yellow River and was about to escort the King of Zhou back to Beijing.
Zhao Shui said: If you want to become the overlord, it is better to escort the King of Zhou back to the capital and respect the King of Zhou.
Zhou and Jin have the same surname. If Jin does not escort King Zhou back to the capital first and falls behind Qin, it will not be able to issue orders in the world.
Today, respecting the king of Zhou is the capital of Jin's dominance.
On the first day of the third month, Jin sent troops to Yangfan, surrounded Wen, and escorted King Xiang of Zhou to the capital of Zhou.
In April, Jin killed Wang Zidai, the younger brother of King Xiang.
King Zhou Xiang gave the land of Hanoi and Yangfan to the State of Jin.
In four years, King Chu Cheng and other princes surrounded Song State. Gongsun Gu of Song State rushed to Jin State to ask for help.
Xian Zhen said: To repay Song Xianggong's kindness of gifting horses and make Jin dominate the princes, this is the battle today.
Hu Yan said: Chu State has just occupied Cao State, and has married Wei State for the first time. If we attack Cao State and Wei State, Chu State will definitely rescue us, and Song State will be saved from disaster.
So the Jin State organized three armies. Zhao Shuai recommended Que Gu to command the middle army, and Que Zhen assisted him; Hu Yan was sent to command the upper army, and Hu Mao assisted him, and Zhao Shuai was appointed minister; Luan Zhi commanded the lower army, and Xian Zhen assisted him;
In December of winter, the Jin army first captured the east of Taihang Mountain and granted the original city to Zhao Shuai.
In the spring of the fifth year, Duke Wen of Jin wanted to attack the state of Cao and asked the state of Wei to borrow a road, but the people of the state of Wei refused.
The Jin army had no choice but to cross the Yellow River from the south to attack Cao State and crusade against Wei State.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
正月，取五鹿。
二月，晋侯、齐侯盟于敛盂。
卫侯请盟晋，晋人不许。
卫侯欲与楚，国人不欲，故出其君以说晋。
卫侯居襄牛，公子买守卫。楚救卫，不卒。
晋侯围曹。
三月丙午，晋师入曹，数之以其不用厘负羁言，而用美女乘轩者三百人也。
令军毋入僖负羁宗家以报德。
楚围宋，宋复告急晋。
文公欲救则攻楚，为楚尝有德，不欲伐也；欲释宋，宋又尝有德于晋：患之。
先轸曰： 执曹伯，分曹、卫地以与宋，楚急曹、卫，其势宜释宋。
于是文公从之，而楚成王乃引兵归。
楚将子玉曰： 王遇晋至厚，今知楚急曹、卫而故伐之，是轻王。
王曰： 晋侯亡在外十九年，困日久矣，果得反国，险厄尽知之，能用其民，天之所开，不可当。
子玉请曰： 非敢必有功，愿以间执谗慝之口也。
楚王怒，少与之兵。
于是子玉使宛春告晋： 请复卫侯而封曹，臣亦释宋。
咎犯曰： 子玉无礼矣，君取一，臣取二，勿许。
先轸曰： 定人之谓礼。
楚一言定三国，子一言而亡之，我则毋礼。
不许楚，是弃宋也。
不如私许曹、卫以诱之，执宛春以怒楚，既战而后图之。
晋侯乃囚宛春于卫，且私许复曹、卫。
曹、卫告绝于楚。
楚得臣怒，击晋师，晋师退。军吏曰： 为何退？
文公曰： 昔在楚，约退三舍，可倍乎！
楚师欲去，得臣不肯。
四月戊辰，宋公、齐将、秦将与晋侯次城濮。
己巳，与楚兵合战，楚兵败，得臣收余兵去。
translation: 
In the first month of the first month, the Jin army captured Wulu.
In February, the Marquis of Jin and the Marquis of Qi formed an alliance in Lianmen.
Marquis Wei requested an alliance with Jin, but the Jin people refused.
The Marquis of Wei wanted to form an alliance with the Chu State, but the people of the country opposed it. As a result, the Marquis of Wei was kicked out to please the Jin State.
The Marquis of Wei lived in Xiangniu, and the young master bought Wei to defend the country. The Chu State rescued the Wei State, but failed to win.
The Marquis of Jin surrounded the State of Cao.
On Bingwu in the third month, the Jin army invaded the capital of Cao and listed the crimes of Cao Jun because Cao Jun did not listen to Li Weiji's words, but instead used 300 beauties in a gorgeous car.
Duke Wen ordered the army not to enter the home of Lifuji's clan in order to repay his kindness.
Chu surrounded Song, and Song asked Jin for help.
If Duke Wen wanted to rescue Song, he should attack Chu. Because Chu had been kind to Duke Wen, Duke Wen did not want to attack Chu. He wanted to give up the rescue of Song, but Song had been kind to Jin, so Duke Wen was hesitant about this move.
Xian Zhen persuaded: Seize Cao Bo and distribute the lands of Cao and Wei to the Song State. Chu must be anxious about this, and the Chu State will inevitably give up the Song State.
So Wen Gong listened to Xian Zhen's opinion, and King Chu Cheng really led his army to leave the Song Dynasty.
Ziyu, the general of Chu State, said to King Cheng of Chu: Your Majesty, you have been too kind to Jin State. Now that Duke Wen knows that Chu State has close relations with Cao State and Wei State, he deliberately attacks them. This is contempt for the king.
King Cheng said: The Marquis of Jin has been on the run for nineteen years. He has been trapped for too long and finally returned to Jin. Because he has experienced all kinds of hardships and dangers, he is able to treat his people well. God bless him and he is unstoppable.
Ziyu still asked for troops and said: "I don't dare to make any achievements, I just want to stop the slanderous remarks."
The king of Chu was very angry and gave him only a small army.
So Ziyu asked Wanchun to tell the state of Jin: Please restore the status of Weihou and save the state of Cao. I will also lift the siege of the state of Song.
The offender said: "Ziyu is too rude. My king only gets one share, but their ministers get two. I cannot agree to this condition."
Xian Zhen said: Being able to make people's hearts calm is called courtesy.
A word from Chu State can bring stability to three countries, but a word from you can bring about the destruction of these three countries. We are being rude.
Not agreeing to the Chu State means giving up the Song State.
It is better to privately agree to restore Cao and Wei in order to seduce Chu, detain Wanchun to anger Chu, and make plans based on the outcome of the war.
The Marquis of Jin imprisoned Wanchun in Weiguo, and privately promised to restore Caoguo and Weiguo.
Cao and Wei sent envoys to notify them of breaking off diplomatic relations with Chu.
Ziyu of Chu State was very angry and attacked the Jin army. The Jin army continued to retreat. The army officials asked: "Why are you retreating?"
Duke Wen said: When we were in Chu State, we made a covenant to stay away from each other during war. Can we break it?
The Chu army also wanted to retreat, but the ministers disagreed.
On Wuchen Day in April, Duke Song, General Qi, General Qin and Marquis of Jin were stationed in Chengpu.
On the day of Jisi, they fought with the Chu army. The Chu army was defeated, and the defeated ministers fled with the remaining soldiers.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
甲午，晋师还至衡雍，作王宫于践土。
初，郑助楚，楚败，惧，使人请盟晋侯。
晋侯与郑伯盟。
五月丁未，献楚俘于周，驷介百乘，徒兵千。
天子使王子虎命晋侯为伯，赐大辂ù，彤弓矢百，玈ú弓矢千，秬鬯一卣，圭瓒，虎贲三百人。
晋侯三辞，然后稽首受之。
周作《晋文侯命》： 王若曰：父义和，丕显文、武，能慎明德，昭登于上，布闻在下，维时上帝集厥命于文、武。
恤朕身、继予一人永其在位。
于是晋文公称伯。癸亥，王子虎盟诸侯于王庭。
晋焚楚军，火数日不息，文公叹。
左右曰： 胜楚而君犹忧，何？
文公曰： 吾闻能战胜安者唯圣人，是以惧。
且子玉犹在，庸可喜乎！
子玉之败而归，楚成王怒其不用其言，贪与晋战，让责子玉，子玉自杀。
晋文公曰： 我击其外，楚诛其内，内外相应。
于是乃喜。
六月，晋人复入卫侯。
壬午，晋侯度河北归国。
行赏，狐偃为首。
或曰： 城濮之事，先轸之谋。
文公曰： 城濮之事，偃说我毋失信。
先轸曰 军事胜为右 ，吾用之以胜。
然此一时之说，偃言万世之功，奈何以一时之利而加万世功乎？
是以先之。
冬，晋侯会诸侯于温，欲率之朝周。
力未能，恐其有畔者，乃使人言周襄王狩于河阳。
壬申，遂率诸侯朝王于践土。
孔子读史记至文公，曰： 诸侯无召王， 王狩河阳 者，《春秋》讳之也。
丁丑，诸侯围许。
translation: 
On Jiawu Day, the Jin army returned to Hengyong and built a palace for King Zhou Xiang in Jiantu.
At first, Zheng Guo had aided Chu State, but now that Chu State had failed, Zheng Guo State was very frightened and sent people to request an alliance with the Marquis of Jin.
Therefore, the Marquis of Jin formed an alliance with Zheng Bo.
On the last day of the fifth month, Duke Wen of Jin dedicated the captives of Chu to the king of Zhou. There were a hundred armored four-horse chariots and more than a thousand infantry.
King Zhou Xiang asked Prince Hu to declare the Marquis of Jin as the overlord, and rewarded the Marquis of Jin with a gold-decorated cart, a pair of red bows, a hundred red arrows, ten pairs of black bows, a thousand black arrows, a bottle of fragrant wine, a jade spoon and three hundred warriors.
The Marquis of Jin thanked him many times before finally bowing and accepting.
King Zhou wrote "The Order of the Marquis of Jin Wen": The king said: You use morality and justice to make the princes harmonious and show the achievements of King Wen and King Wu. King Wen and King Wu were able to carefully cultivate beautiful virtues, which moved heaven and spread among the people.
Therefore, God bestowed the emperor's career on King Wen and King Wu, and the favor was passed down to future generations.
My elders care about me and allow me to inherit the legacy of my ancestors and preserve the throne forever. So Jin Wengong became the hegemon, and on the day of Guihai, Prince Hu formed an alliance with the princes in the palace.
The Jin State burned the Chu army's positions, and the raging fire did not go out for several days. Duke Wen sighed.
The ministers on the left and right said: After defeating Chu, you are still worried. Why?
Duke Wen said: I heard that only saints can be calm after winning a battle, so I am afraid.
Besides, Ziyu is still here, how can I be happy?
Ziyu returned in defeat. King Chu Cheng complained that he did not listen to him and only focused on fighting Jin, so he blamed Ziyu and Ziyu committed suicide.
Duke Wen of Jin said: I attacked Chu from the outside, and Chu killed the generals from the inside, and the internal and external response was echoed.
Only then did Duke Wen look happy.
In June, the Jin people resumed their status as Weihou.
On Renwu day, the Marquis of Jin crossed the Yellow River and returned to the north.
Jin Wengong discussed meritorious deeds and rewarded them, and Hu Yan was the top meritorious one.
Some people say: The war in Chengpu was Xian Zhen's strategy.
Duke Wen said: During the war in Chengpu, Hu Yan advised me not to lose my credibility.
Xian Zhen said: The most important thing in fighting is victory. I won after listening to Xian Zhen's words.
However, this is only a temporary statement. Hu Yan is talking about the merits of thousands of generations. How can the benefits of a moment exceed the merits of thousands of generations?
Therefore, Hu Yan deserves the first credit.
In winter, the Marquis of Jin met with the princes in Wendi and wanted to lead the princes to meet King Zhou Xiang.
The Marquis of Jin was worried that he was not strong enough and that there might be traitors among the princes, so he sent someone to tell King Zhou Xiang to go hunting in Heyang.
On the day of Renshen, the Marquis of Jin led the princes to pay homage to King Xiang in Jiantu.
Confucius read history and saw this record about Duke Wen, saying: The princes have no right to summon the king of Zhou. The reason why I wrote this incident in the "Spring and Autumn Annals" as "The Emperor of Zhou was hunting in Heyang" is to keep it secret.
On Ding Chou day, the princes surrounded Xu.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
曹伯臣或说晋侯曰： 齐桓公合诸侯而国异姓，今君为会而灭同姓。
曹，叔振铎之后；晋，唐叔之后。
合诸侯而灭兄弟，非礼。
晋侯说，复曹伯。
于是晋始作三行。
荀林父将中行，先縠将右行，先蔑将左行。
七年，晋文公、秦缪公共围郑，以其无礼于文公亡过时，及城濮时郑助楚也。
围郑，欲得叔瞻。
叔瞻闻之，自杀。
郑持叔瞻告晋。
晋曰： 必得郑君而甘心焉。
郑恐，乃间令使谓秦缪公曰： 亡郑厚晋，于晋得矣，而秦未为利。
君何不解郑，得为东道交？
秦伯说，罢兵。晋亦罢兵。
九年冬，晋文公卒，子襄公欢立。
是岁郑伯亦卒。
郑人或卖其国于秦，秦缪公发兵往袭郑。
十二月，秦兵过我郊。
襄公元年春，秦师过周，无礼，王孙满讥之。
兵至滑，郑贾人弦高将市于周，遇之，以十二牛劳秦师。
秦师惊而还，灭滑而去。
晋先轸曰： 秦伯不用蹇叔，反其众心，此可击。
栾枝曰： 未报先君施于秦，击之，不可。
先轸曰： 秦侮吾孤，伐吾同姓，何德之报？
遂击之。
襄公墨衰绖。
四月，败秦师于殽，虏秦三将孟明视、西乞秫、白乙丙以归。
遂墨以葬文公。
文公夫人秦女，谓襄公曰： 秦欲得其三将戮之。
公许，遣之。
先轸闻之，谓襄公曰： 患生矣。
轸乃追秦将。
秦将渡河，已在船中，顿首谢，卒不反。
后三年，秦果使孟明伐晋，报殽之败，取晋汪以归。
四年，秦缪公大兴兵伐我，度河，取王官，封殽尸而去。
晋恐，不敢出，遂城守。
五年，晋伐秦，取新城，报王官役也。
六年，赵衰成子、栾贞子、咎季子犯、霍伯皆卒。
translation: 
Someone among Cao Bo's ministers advised the Marquis of Jin: "Qi Huan's alliance with the vassal states was to support the countries of the opposite sex. Now, the monarch, you are allying with the vassals to destroy the countries with the same surname."
The descendants of Shu Zhenduo of Cao State, and the descendants of Uncle Tang of Jin State.
He united the vassal states but destroyed Shi Di's state. Unbecoming etiquette.
The Marquis of Jin was happy and restored Cao Bo's status.
So the Jin State began to establish a three-marching military system.
Xun Lin's father led the middle march, Xian Gu commanded the right march, and Xian Mi commanded the left march.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin and Duke Mu of Qin besieged Zheng State together. The reason was that Zheng State was rude to Wen Gong when he passed by Zheng State when he was fleeing, and Zheng State aided Chu State in the Battle of Chengpu.
Jin State surrounded Zheng State and wanted to capture Shuzhan.
Shuzhan committed suicide after hearing about it.
The people of Zheng took Uncle Zhan's body and told the king of Jin.
But Jin Jun said: I will only be willing to get Zheng Jun.
The State of Zheng was afraid, so he secretly sent an envoy to Duke Mu of Qin, saying: "Destroy the State of Zheng and strengthen the State of Jin. Jin will gain something, but Qin will not gain much."
Why don't you give up the state of Zheng and become friendly with Zheng?
Uncle Qin agreed and withdrew his army, and Jin also withdrew its army subsequently.
In the winter of the ninth year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away, and his son Duke Xiang Huan came to the throne.
Uncle Zheng also passed away that year.
Someone in the state of Zheng betrayed his country to the state of Qin. Duke Mu of Qin led his army to attack the state of Zheng.
In December, the Qin army passed by the suburbs of the Jin capital.
In the spring of the first year of Xiang AD, the Qin army passed by the capital of Zhou and was very rude. Wang Sunman ridiculed Qin for not knowing etiquette.
When the Qin army arrived in the Hua Kingdom, Xian Gao, a great businessman from the Zheng state, was about to go to Zhou Jing to do business. He met the Qin army on the way and rewarded the Qin army with twelve cows.
The Qin army was shocked, thinking that Zheng Guo already knew about the sneak attack, so they hurried back to their country, and only after destroying Hua Guo by the way did they return.
Xian Zhen of the Jin State said: Uncle Qin did not listen to Uncle Jian's plan and violated the people's will. We can attack it at this time.
Luan Zhi said: It is impossible to attack Qin before repaying its kindness to the late emperor.
Xian Zhen said: The Qin State bullied me, who had just lost his father, and attacked the country with the same surname as ours. What kind of favor should we repay?
So Jin State attacked Qin State.
Duke Xiang wore black mourning uniform and entered the army.
In April, the Jin army defeated the Qin army in Confucius and captured the three Qin generals Meng Mingshi, Xiqiji, and Bai Yibing before returning to the Jin state.
So Duke Xianggang of Jin buried Duke Wen in black mourning clothes.
Duke Wen's wife was a woman from the state of Qin. She told Duke Xiang: "The state of Qin wants to get these three generals and kill them."
Duke Xiang agreed and sent back the three generals.
After Xian Zhen heard about it, he said to Duke Xiang: "A disaster is about to happen."
Xian Zhen went to chase the three generals.
The three generals crossed the Yellow River and got on the boat. When they saw Xian Zhen, they kowtowed and thanked him, and finally left without returning.
Three years later, the State of Qin sent Meng Ming to attack the State of Jin. In order to avenge the defeat in Confucius, he captured the territory of the State of Jin and then withdrew his troops.
In the fourth year, Duke Mu of Qin sent a large army to attack the state of Jin, crossed the Yellow River, captured the royal officials, and built the tombs of the fallen soldiers in Miao Mountain before leaving.
The Jin State was very panicked and did not dare to come out again, so they had to hold on to the city.
In five years, the Jin State attacked the Qin State and captured the new city, avenging the failure of the king's official position.
In the sixth year, Zhao Shuichengzi, Luan Zhenzi, Jiu Ji, Zifu and Huo Bo all died.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
赵盾代赵衰执政。
七年八月，襄公卒。
太子夷皋少。
晋人以难故，欲立长君。
赵盾曰： 立襄公弟雍。
好善而长，先君爱之；且近于秦，秦故好也。
立善则固，事长则顺，奉爱则孝，结旧好则安。
贾季曰： 不如其弟乐。
辰嬴嬖于二君，立其子，民必安之。
赵盾曰： 辰嬴贱，班在九人下，其子何震之有！
且为二君嬖，淫也。
为先君子，不能求大而出在小国，僻也。
母淫子僻，无威；陈小而远，无援：将何可乎！
使士会如秦迎公子雍。
贾季亦使人召公子乐于陈。
赵盾废贾季，以其杀阳处父。
十月，葬襄公。
十一月，贾季奔翟。
是岁，秦缪公亦卒。
灵公元年四月，秦康公曰： 昔文公之入也无卫，故有吕、郄之患。
乃多与公子雍卫。
太子母缪嬴日夜抱太子以号泣于朝，曰： 先君何罪？
其嗣亦何罪？
舍适而外求君，将安置此？
出朝，则抱以适赵盾所，顿首曰： 先君奉此子而属之子，曰 此子材，吾受其赐；不材，吾怨子 。
今君卒，言犹在耳，而弃之，若何？
赵盾与诸大夫皆患缪嬴，且畏诛，乃背所迎而立太子夷皋，是为灵公。
发兵以距秦送公子雍者。
赵盾为将，往击秦，败之令狐。
先蔑、随会亡奔秦。
秋，齐、宋、卫、郑、曹、许君皆会赵盾，盟于扈，以灵公初立故也。
四年，伐秦，取少梁。秦亦取晋之郩。
六年，秦康公伐晋，取羁马。
晋侯怒，使赵盾、赵穿、郄缺击秦，大战河曲，赵穿最有功。
七年，晋六卿患随会之在秦，常为晋乱，乃详令魏寿余反晋降秦。
秦使随会之魏，因执会以归晋。
八年，周顷王崩，公卿争权，故不赴。
晋使赵盾以车八百乘平周乱而立匡王。
是年，楚庄王初即位。
十二年，齐人弑其君懿公。
十四年，灵公壮，侈，厚敛以雕墙。
translation: 
Zhao Dun replaced Zhao Shui in charge of government affairs.
In August of the seventh year, Duke Xiang passed away.
Prince Yigao is still young.
Because the people of Jin were in trouble many times, they chose an older king.
Zhao Dun said: I established Xianggong's younger brother Yong.
Yong Wen was kind and old, and the late emperor liked him. Moreover, he was close to Qin, which was originally a friendly neighboring country.
If you establish good people, the country will be stable; if you serve the elders, the country will be successful; if you serve the people your ancestors like, you will be filial; if you keep friends with old friends, the country will be stable.
Jia Ji said: Yong is not as happy as his brother.
Chen Ying is favored by the two monarchs. If she has a son, the people will feel at ease.
Zhao Dun said: Chen Ying is humble and his status is lower than the nine concubines. What prestige can his son have?
Besides, she is loved by two kings, which is chaos.
As the son of the late emperor, Le could not seek refuge in a big country but live in a small country. This would be isolation.
The mother is in chaos, the son is isolated and has no dignity; Chen is small and far away from Jin, and cannot get help. How can he be a king?
So Jin sent a scholar to Qin to meet Prince Yong.
Jia Ji also sent people to the state of Chen to recall Gongzi Le.
Zhao Dun deposed Jia Ji because Jia Ji killed Yang Chufu.
In the tenth month, the Jin State buried Duke Xiang.
In November, Jia Ji fled to Zhai.
That year, Duke Mu of Qin also passed away.
In April of the first year of the Ling Dynasty, Duke Kang of Qin said: When Duke Wen just returned to the Jin State, the Jin State had no guards to protect him, so the disasters of Lu Sheng and Qi Rui happened.
So, Qin sent many guards to Prince Yong.
Miao Ying, the mother of Prince Yigao, carried the prince to the court day and night, howling and crying, saying: "What is the crime of the late king?"
What sin do his heirs have?
You abandon your legitimate son and look for the monarch outside. Where do you plan to put the prince?
After Miao Ying left the court, he ran to Zhao Dun's residence with the prince in his arms, kowtowed and said: "The late king entrusted this child to you. He once said that this child will be successful. I just accepted your gift. If he is not, I will resent you."
Now that the late king has passed away, the words are still ringing in my ears, and now you want to abandon the prince, how can you do that?
Zhao Dun and other ministers were afraid of Miao Ying and were afraid of being persecuted, so they turned their backs on Yong who greeted him and established the crown prince Yigao, who was Duke Ling.
At the same time, troops were sent to resist the army of Qin escorting Gongzi Yong.
Zhao Dun became a general and led his army to attack Qin, and defeated the Qin army at Linghu.
He was disdainful first and then fled to Qin.
In the autumn, the kings of Qi, Song, Wei, Zheng, Cao, and Xu all visited Zhao Dun and made an alliance at Hu. This was because Duke Linggong had just ascended the throne.
In four years, Jin attacked Qin and captured Shaoliang, and Qin also captured Jin's Concubine.
In the sixth year, Duke Kang of Qin attacked Jin and captured Jima.
The Marquis of Jin was very angry and sent Zhao Dun, Zhao Chuan, and Queque to attack Qin. They launched a battle in Hequ, and Zhao Chuan made great achievements.
In the seventh year, the six ministers of Jin were worried that attending meetings in Qin would often cause civil strife in Jin, so they pretended to ask Wei Shouyu to oppose Jin's surrender to Qin.
Qin sent Suihui to Wei, so he captured Suihui and brought him back to Jin.
In the eighth year, King Qing of Zhou passed away. Due to the vying for power among the officials, no obituary was issued to the various vassal states.
The Jin State sent Zhao Dun to lead 800 chariots to quell the chaos in the Zhou Dynasty and support King Kuang.
This year, King Zhuang of Chu just ascended the throne.
In ten years, the people of Qi killed their own king Yigong.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Ling grew up and became very extravagant. He plundered people's wealth and used color paintings to decorate the palace walls.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
从台上弹人，观其避丸也。
宰夫胹熊蹯不熟，灵公怒，杀宰夫，使妇人持其尸出弃之，过朝。
赵盾、随会前数谏，不听；已又见死人手，二人前谏。
随会先谏，不听。
灵公患之，使锄ú麑í刺赵盾。
盾闺门开，居处节，锄麑退，叹曰： 杀忠臣，弃君命，罪一也。
遂触树而死。
初，盾常田首山，见桑下有饿人。
饿人，眯明也。
盾与之食，食其半。
问其故，曰： 宦三年，未知母之存不，愿遗母。
盾义之，益与之饭肉。
已而为晋宰夫，赵盾弗复知也。
九月，晋灵公饮赵盾酒，伏甲将攻盾。公宰眯明知之，恐盾醉不能起，而进曰： 君赐臣，觞三行可以罢。
欲以去赵盾，令先，毋及难。
盾既去，灵公伏士未会，先纵啮狗名敖。
明为盾搏杀狗。
盾曰： 弃人用狗，虽勐何为。
然不知明之为阴德也。
已而灵公纵伏士出逐赵盾，眯明反击灵公之伏士，伏士不能进，而竟脱盾。
盾问其故，曰： 我桑下饿人。
问其名，弗告。
明亦因亡去。
盾遂奔，未出晋境。
乙丑，盾昆弟将军赵穿袭杀灵公于桃园而迎赵盾。
赵盾素贵，得民和；灵公少，侈，民不附，故为弑易。
盾复位。
晋太史董狐书曰 赵盾弑其君 ，以视于朝。
盾曰： 弑者赵穿，我无罪。
太史曰： 子为正卿，而亡不出境，反不诛国乱，非子而谁？
孔子闻之，曰： 董狐，古之良史也，书法不隐。
宣子，良大夫也，为法受恶。惜也，出疆乃免。
translation: 
Shooting people from a high platform and having fun watching people avoid the projectiles.
When the cook failed to boil the bear's paws, Duke Lin became angry and killed the cook. He asked the women to carry the body of the cook and throw it out past the court.
Zhao Dun and others went to the meeting to give advice many times, but Duke Linggong didn't listen at all. Later, they saw the dead man's hand again, so they went to give advice again.
Suihui went to persuade him first, but Duke Ling didn't listen.
Duke Linggong was very worried and asked Chu Qi to assassinate Zhao Dun.
The door of Zhao Dun's inner room was open. Jiu Lin saw that Zhao Dun's residence was extremely simple, so he stepped out and sighed: "Killing loyal ministers and disobeying the king's orders are all the same crime."
After saying that, he hit his head against a tree and died.
At the beginning, Zhao Dun often hunted in Shoushan and once saw a very hungry man under a mulberry tree.
This person's name is Shi Miming.
Zhao Dun gave him some food, but he only ate half of it.
Zhao Dun asked him why he hadn't finished eating, and Shi Miming replied: I have been a minister for three years. I don't know if my mother is still alive, so I want to leave the remaining half to my mother.
Zhao Dun thought he was very filial and gave him some rice and meat.
Soon, Shi Miming became the chef of Jin Linggong. But Zhao Dun didn't know that Shi Miming was Jin Jun's chef.
In September, Jin Linggong hosted a banquet for Zhao Dun and ambushed his soldiers to kill him. When Shi Miming found out, he was worried that Zhao Dun would be too drunk to stand up and escape, so he stepped forward to persuade Zhao Dun: The king rewards you with wine, just drink three glasses.
He wanted Zhao Dun to leave before he could and avoid suffering.
Zhao Dun had already left, but before Linggong's ambush soldiers could gather together, he released a vicious dog named Ao.
Shi Miming killed the dog with his bare hands for Zhao Dun.
Zhao Dun said: Abandoning people and using dogs, although they are ferocious, what's the use!
However, Zhao Dun didn't know that Shi Miming was secretly protecting him.
After a while, Duke Linggong commanded the ambushed soldiers to chase Zhao Dun, and signaled Miming to fight back against Duke Linggong's soldiers. The soldiers could not move forward, and Zhao Dun finally escaped.
Zhao Dun asked Shi Miming why he saved him, and Shi Miming said: I am the hungry man under the mulberry tree.
Zhao Dun asked for his name, but he did not tell him.
Shi Miming therefore hid away.
Zhao Dun escaped, but not beyond the borders of Jin.
On Yichou Day, Zhao Dun's younger brother, General Zhao Chuan, killed Duke Ling in Taoyuan and welcomed Zhao Dun back.
Zhao Dun has always been respected by others and is very popular among the people. Duke Ling was young and extravagant, and the people did not follow him, so he was easily killed.
Zhao Dun regained his previous status.
Dong Hu, the Taishi of Jin State, wrote: Zhao Dun killed his own king.
And take this record to the court for everyone to see. Zhao Dun said: It was Zhao Chuan who killed the king, and I am not guilty.
Taishi said: "You are the official. You ran away but did not escape from the borders of Jin. When you came back, you did not kill the rebels. Who are you?"
Later, Confucius heard about this and said: Dong Hu was an excellent historian in ancient times. He wrote according to the law without concealing anything.
Xuanzi is an excellent doctor, and he is willing to bear a bad reputation in order to abide by the law. Unfortunately, if Zhao Dun escapes from the country, he will be exempted from the crime.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
赵盾使赵穿迎襄公弟黑臀于周而立之，是为成公。
成公者，文公少子，其母周女也。
壬申，朝于武宫。
成公元年，赐赵氏为公族。
伐郑，郑倍晋故也。
三年，郑伯初立，附晋而弃楚。
楚怒，伐郑，晋往救之。
六年，伐秦，虏秦将赤。
七年，成公与楚庄王争强，会诸侯于扈。
陈畏楚，不会。
晋使中行桓子伐陈，因救郑，与楚战，败楚师。
是年，成公卒，子景公据立。
景公元年春，陈大夫夏征舒弑其君灵公。
二年，楚庄王伐陈，诛征舒。
三年，楚庄王围郑，郑告急晋。
晋使荀林父将中军，随会将上军，赵朔将下军，郄克、栾书、先縠、韩厥、巩朔佐之。
六月，至河。
闻楚已服郑，郑伯肉袒与盟而去，荀林父欲还。
先縠曰： 凡来救郑，不至不可，将率离心。
卒度河。
楚已服郑，欲饮马于河为名而去。
楚与晋军大战。郑新附楚，畏之，反助楚攻晋。
晋军败，走河，争度，船中人指甚众。
楚虏我将智罃。
归而林父曰： 臣为督将，军败当诛，请死。
景公欲许之。
随会曰： 昔文公之与楚战城濮，成王归杀子玉，而文公乃喜。
今楚已败我师，又诛其将，是助楚杀仇也。
乃止。
四年，先縠以首计而败晋军河上，恐诛，乃奔翟，与翟谋伐晋。
晋觉，乃族縠。縠，先轸子也。
五年，伐郑，为助楚故也。
是时楚庄王强，以挫晋兵河上也。
六年，楚伐宋，宋来告急晋，晋欲救之，伯宗谋曰： 楚，天方开之，不可当。
乃使解扬绐为救宋。
郑人执与楚，楚厚赐，使反其言，令宋急下。
解扬绐许之，卒致晋君言。
楚欲杀之，或谏，乃归解扬。
七年，晋使随会灭赤狄。
translation: 
Zhao Dun asked Zhao Chuan to welcome Heibu, the younger brother of Duke Xianggang, from Zhoujing and let him ascend the throne. This was Duke Cheng.
Duke Cheng was the youngest son of Duke Wen, and his mother was a woman from the Zhou royal family.
On the day of Renshen, Duke Cheng went to Wugong to pay homage to his ancestors.
In the first year of his reign, the Zhao family was granted the title of official of the public clan.
Jin State attacked Zheng State because Zheng State betrayed Jin State.
Three years later, when Uncle Zheng came to the throne, Zheng surrendered to Jin but abandoned Chu.
The King of Chu became angry and attacked Zheng Guo, but Jin State came to rescue him.
In the sixth year, Jin attacked Qin and captured Chi, the general of Qin.
In the seventh year, Duke Cheng of Jin competed with King Zhuang of Chu for hegemony and met with the princes in Huyi.
Chen Guo was afraid of Chu State and did not go to the meeting.
The state of Jin sent Zhongxing Huan to attack the state of Chen, so he rescued the state of Zheng, fought with the state of Chu, and defeated the Chu army.
That year, Duke Cheng died and his son Duke Jing came to the throne.
In the spring of the first year of Jingdong, Xia Zhengshu, a senior official of the Chen State, killed his monarch Linggong.
In the second year, King Zhuang of Chu attacked the state of Chen and killed Zhengshu.
In the third year, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the state of Zheng, and the state of Zheng asked for help from the state of Jin.
The State of Jin sent Xun Linfu to command the middle army, Suihui to command the upper army, Zhao Shuo to command the lower army, and Chu Ke, Luan Shu, Xian Gu, Han Jue and Gong Shuo to assist them.
In June, the Jin army rushed to the Yellow River.
Hearing that the Chu State had surrendered to the Zheng State, Zheng Bo took off his shirt and exposed his arms to form an alliance with the Chu State. The Chu army returned. Xun Lin's father wanted to return to Jin with his troops.
Xiangu said: We have finally come to rescue Zheng Guo. We must not arrive until we arrive, otherwise the general will become disloyal.
The Jin army finally crossed the Yellow River.
The State of Chu had surrendered to the State of Zheng, and wanted to make a name for itself by drinking horses from the Yellow River, so it left the State of Zheng.
There was a battle between the Chu and Jin armies. Zheng had just surrendered to Chu and was afraid of Chu. Instead, he helped the Chu army attack the Jin army.
The Jin army was defeated and retreated to the Yellow River. The soldiers fought for boats to cross the river. There were many chopped off fingers in the boats.
The Chu State captured the Jin general Zhi Xiang.
After the Jin army returned to the state of Jin, Lin's father said: I am a general. If the Jin army failed, I should be killed. I asked for the death penalty.
Jin Jinggong wanted to agree to him.
He then said: In the past, Duke Wen fought with the state of Chu in Chengpu. When King Chu Cheng returned to the state of Chu, he killed the general Ziyu, which made Duke Wen happy.
Today, Chu State has defeated our army, and we have killed our own generals. This is helping Chu State to kill Chu State’s enemies.
Jin Jinggong gave up after hearing these words.
In the fourth year, Xiangu caused the Jin army to suffer a defeat on the bank of the Yellow River because of his first suggestion. He was afraid of being killed, so he fled to Zhai and discussed with Zhai State to attack the Jin State.
When the Jin State found out, they killed Xiangu's entire family. Xiangu is the son of Xianzhen.
In the fifth year, the Jin State attacked the Zheng State because it aided the Chu State.
At that time, King Zhuang of Chu was very powerful, so he defeated the Jin army by the Yellow River.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu attacked the state of Song, and the state of Song asked the state of Jin for help, and the state of Jin wanted to rescue. Bo Zong offered his advice and said: The Kingdom of Chu is being promoted by heaven and cannot be stopped.
So the Jin State sent Xie Yang to lie and claim to rescue the Song State.
The people of Zheng captured Xie Yang and handed him over to the state of Chu. The state of Chu rewarded him with a lot of property and asked him to tell lies, so that the state of Song would be defeated quickly.
Xie Yang pretended to promise and finally told Song Guo what Jin Jun said.
The state of Chu wanted to kill him, but someone watched and remonstrated, so the state of Chu released Xie Yang.
In the seventh year, the Jin sect Suihui destroyed Chidi.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
八年，使郄克于齐。
齐顷公母从楼上观而笑之。
所以然者，郄克偻，而鲁使蹇，卫使眇，故齐亦令人如之以导客。
郄克怒，归至河上，曰： 不报齐者，河伯视之！
至国，请君，欲伐齐。
景公问知其故，曰： 子之怨，安足以烦国！
弗听。
魏文子请老休，辟郄克，克执政。
九年，楚庄王卒。
晋伐齐，齐使太子强为质于晋，晋兵罢。
十一年春，齐伐鲁，取隆。
鲁告急卫，卫与鲁皆因郄克告急于晋。
晋乃使郄克、栾书、韩厥以兵车八百乘与鲁、卫共伐齐。
夏，与顷公战于鞍，伤困顷公。顷公乃与其右易位，下取饮，以得脱去。
齐师败走，晋追北至齐。
顷公献宝器以求平，不听。
郄克曰： 必得萧桐侄子为质。
齐使曰： 萧桐侄子，顷公母；顷公母犹晋君母，奈何必得之？
不义，请复战。
晋乃许与平而去。
楚申公巫臣盗夏姬以奔晋，晋以巫臣为邢大夫。
十二年冬，齐顷公如晋，欲上尊晋景公为王，景公让不敢。
晋始作六军，韩厥、巩朔、赵穿、荀骓、赵括、赵旃皆为卿，智自楚归。
十三年，鲁成公朝晋，晋弗敬，鲁怒去，倍晋。
晋伐郑，取汜。
十四年，梁山崩。
问伯宗，伯宗以为不足怪也。
十六年，楚将子反怨巫臣，灭其族。
巫臣怒，遗子反书曰： 必令子罢于奔命！
乃请使吴，令其子为吴行人，教吴乘车用兵。
吴晋始通，约伐楚。
十七年，诛赵同、赵括，族灭之。
韩厥曰： 赵衰、赵盾之功岂可忘乎？
奈何绝祀！
translation: 
In the eighth year, the state of Jin sent Choke as envoy to the state of Qi.
Qi Qinggong's mother watched from upstairs and laughed.
The reason for this was that Ke Ke was hunchbacked, the envoy from Lu was lame, and the envoy from Wei was blind in one eye. In this way, Qi Jun also sent the same disabled person to guide the guests.
Chuke was very angry and returned to the Yellow River and swore: "I will not retaliate against Qi. He Bo will come to witness!"
Chuke returned to Jin and asked the king of Jin to attack Qi.
After Jin Jinggong asked about the reason for the attack, he said: If you have grievances, how can you disturb the country?
Jin Jun didn't listen.
Wei Wenzi asked to resign due to old age and recommended Choke, who took charge of the country.
In the ninth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
The Jin State attacked Qi State, and Qi State sent the prince to Jin State to be a hostage, so the Jin army stopped attacking.
In the spring of the eleventh year, Qi attacked Lu and captured Long.
The state of Lu asked the state of Wei for help. Both Wei and Lu bribed Jin for help through Queke.
The Jin State sent Chuke, Luan Shu, and Han Jue with 800 chariots to jointly attack the Qi State with the Lu and Wei States.
In the summer, Jin State and Qi Qinggong fought in An. Qinggong was injured and trapped, so he exchanged seats with his right guard, got off the car to find water, and escaped.
The Qi army was defeated and fled, and the Jin State pursued the defeated troops until they reached the capital of Qi.
Qinggong offered his treasures to seek peace, but Jin did not agree.
Choke said: We must get Xiao Tong's nephew as a hostage.
The envoy from Qi State said: My nephew Xiao Tong is Qing Gong’s mother. Qing Gong’s mother is like Jin Jun’s mother. Why must I get her?
You are so unfaithful that you request another war.
As a result, Jin Cai agreed to make peace with Qi and left.
Duke Shen of Chu secretly married Xia Ji and fled to the state of Jin. The king of Jin worshiped the witch as the doctor of Xingyi.
In the winter of the twelfth year, Duke Qing of Qi arrived in Jin. He wanted to honor Duke Jin of Jin as king, but Duke Jin refused to accept the offer.
The Jin State began to set up six armies, and Han Jue, Gong Shuo, Zhao Chuan, Xun Zui, Zhao Kuo, and Zhao Zhan were all granted the title of minister.
Zhi Feng also returned to Jin from Chu. In the thirteenth year, Duke Cheng of Lu went to pay homage to the king of Jin. The king of Jin was very rude. King Lu left angrily and betrayed Jin.
The Jin State attacked the Zheng State and captured Si.
In the fourteenth year, a landslide occurred in Liangshan.
The king of Jin asked Bo Zong, who thought it was not worth making a fuss about.
In the sixteenth year, the general of Chu State resented Wu Chen and killed Wu Chen's entire family.
The wizard was very angry and wrote a letter to his son saying: You will definitely be exhausted all your life!
So Wu Chen asked to be sent as an envoy to the State of Wu, so that his son could be a traveler of the State of Wu and teach the soldiers of the State of Wu how to ride in a car and use the army.
Wu and Jin began to have contacts and agreed to attack Chu together.
In the seventeenth year, Jin Jinggong killed Zhao Tong and Zhao Kuo and destroyed their families.
Han Jue said: How can we forget the contributions of Zhao Shui and Zhao Dun?
How can we cut off their incense?


Chunk 21: 
original: 
乃复令赵庶子武为赵后，复与之邑。
十九年夏，景公病，立其太子寿曼为君，是为厉公。
后月余，景公卒。
厉公元年，初立，欲和诸侯，与秦桓公夹河而盟。
归而秦倍盟，与翟谋伐晋。
三年，使吕相让秦，因与诸侯伐秦。
至泾，败秦于麻隧，虏其将成差。
五年，三郄谗伯宗，杀之。
伯宗以好直谏得此祸，国人以是不附厉公。
六年春，郑倍晋与楚盟，晋怒。
栾书曰： 不可以当吾世而失诸侯。
乃发兵。
厉公自将，五月度河。
闻楚兵来救，范文子请公欲还。
郄至曰： 发兵诛逆，见强辟之，无以令诸侯。
遂与战。
癸巳，射中楚共王目，楚兵败于鄢陵。
子反收余兵，拊循欲复战，晋患之。
共王召子反，其侍者竖阳谷进酒，子反醉，不能见。
王怒，让子反，子反死。
王遂引兵归。
晋由此威诸侯，欲以令天下求霸。
厉公多外嬖姬，归，欲尽去群大夫而立诸姬兄弟。
宠姬兄曰胥童，尝与郄至有怨，及栾书又怨郄至不用其计而遂败楚，乃使人间谢楚。
楚来诈厉公曰： 鄢陵之战，实至召楚，欲作乱，内子周立之。
会与国不具，是以事不成。
厉公告栾书。栾书曰： 其殆有矣！愿公试使人之周微考之。
果使郄至于周。
栾书又使公子周见郄至，郄至不知见卖也。
厉公验之，信然，遂怨郄至，欲杀之。
八年，厉公猎，与姬饮，郄至杀豕奉进，宦者夺之。郄至射杀宦者。
公怒，曰： 季子欺予！
将诛三郄，未发也。
郄钩欲攻公，曰： 我虽死，公亦病矣。
郄至曰： 信不反君，智不害民，勇不作乱。
translation: 
Therefore, Jin Jinggong made Zhao Wu, the concubine of the Zhao family, a descendant of the Zhao family and gave him the city.
In the summer of the 19th year, Jinggong was seriously ill and made Prince Shouman the king. This was Duke Li.
A month later, Jinggong passed away.
In the first year of Li Gong, because he had just ascended the throne, Li Gong wanted to make an alliance with the princes, so he made an alliance with Qin Huan Gong across the Yellow River.
After returning home, Qin broke the alliance and discussed with Zhai to attack Jin.
In the third year, the State of Jin sent Prime Minister Lu to condemn the State of Qin, and took the opportunity to attack the State of Qin with the princes.
The troops arrived at Jingshui, defeated the Qin army at Ma Tun, and captured the Qin general Cheng Cha.
In the fifth year, Que Qi, Que Ji, and Que Zhi slandered Bo Zong, and the king of Jin killed him.
Bo Zong caused this disaster because he liked to speak out and give advice, so the people no longer trusted Duke Li.
In the spring of the sixth year, the state of Zheng betrayed the state of Jin and formed an alliance with the state of Chu. Duke Li of Jin was furious.
Luan Shu said: We cannot lose the princes in our generation.
So Jin sent troops to attack Zheng.
Duke Li personally commanded the army and crossed the Yellow River in May.
When he heard that Chu troops were coming to rescue him, Fan Wenzi asked Duke Li to withdraw his troops.
Quezhi said: If you send an army to attack the rebels and avoid strong enemies, you will no longer be able to give orders to the princes.
As a result, the state of Jin went to war with the state of Chu.
On the day of Guisi, the Jin army shot the King of Chu in the eye, and the Chu army was defeated at Yanling.
Zifan gathered the remaining soldiers to appease the Chu army, and wanted to fight Jin again. Jin was very worried about this.
The King of Gong summoned Zifan, and Zifan's waiter Shu Yanggu proposed a toast to him. Zifan was drunk and could not go to see the King of Gong.
The king of the Communist Party was very angry and blamed Zifan, who was shot dead.
The king of the Communist Party then led his troops back to Chu.
As a result, the state of Jin became powerful and powerful among the princes. Duke Li of Jin wanted to take this opportunity to command the world and seek hegemony.
Duke Li had many concubines. After returning home, he wanted to remove all ministers from their posts and appoint the brothers of his concubines.
There was an elder brother named Xu Tong who was fond of a concubine, and he had a conflict with Que Zhi. In addition, Luan Shu resented Que Zhi for defeating the Chu army without using his own tactics, so he sent someone to secretly apologize to the Chu state.
The Chu State sent people to deceive Duke Li, saying: In fact, the Chu State was summoned to participate in the battle at Yanling, but they wanted to cause chaos and welcome Prince Zhou to the Jin State to ascend the throne.
It just so happened that the allies were not ready, so it didn't work out.
Duke Li told Luan Shu the quotation, and Luan Shu said: "This may be the case. Your Majesty, you might as well try sending him to the capital of Zhou and investigate secretly."
As expected, Duke Li sent Qi to Zhou Jing.
Luan Shu asked Prince Zhou to meet Quezhi again, but Quezhi didn't know that he had been betrayed.
Duke Li verified the matter and believed that Quezhi really wanted to rebel, so he hated Quezhi and wanted to kill him.
In the eighth year, Duke Li went hunting and drank with his concubine. However, he killed a pig and offered it to Duke Li. The eunuch took it away, but he shot the eunuch to death.
Duke Li was very angry and said: "Ji Zi has bullied me!"
He planned to kill San Que, but he didn't do it yet.
Que Qi wanted to strike first and attack Duke Li, saying: "Although I may die, the king will also suffer."
Quezhi said: If you are loyal, you cannot betray the monarch; if you pursue fame, you cannot harm the people; if you are brave, you cannot stir up trouble.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
失此三者，谁与我？
我死耳！
十二月壬午，公令胥童以兵八百人袭攻杀三郄。
胥童因以劫栾书、中行偃于朝，曰： 不杀二子，患必及公。
公曰： 一旦杀三卿，寡人不忍益也。
对曰： 人将忍君。
公弗听，谢栾书等以诛郄氏罪： 大夫复位。
二子顿首曰： 幸甚幸甚！
公使胥童为卿。
闰月乙卯，厉公游匠骊氏，栾书、中行偃以其党袭捕厉公，囚之，杀胥童，而使人迎公子周于周而立之，是为悼公。
悼公元年正月庚申，栾书、中行偃弑厉公，葬之以一乘车。
厉公囚六日死，死十日庚午，智罃迎公子周来，至绛，刑鸡与大夫盟而立之，是为悼公。
辛巳，朝武宫。
二月乙酉，即位。
悼公周者，其大父捷，晋襄公少子也，不得立，号为桓叔，桓叔最爱。
桓叔生惠伯谈，谈生悼公周。
周之立，年十四矣。
悼公曰： 大父、父皆不得立而辟难于周，客死焉。
寡人自以疏远，毋几为君。
今大夫不忘文、襄之意而惠立桓叔之后，赖宗庙大夫之灵，得奉晋祀，岂敢不战战乎？
大夫其亦佐寡人！
于是逐不臣者七人，修旧功，施德惠，收文公入时功臣后。
秋，伐郑。
郑师败，遂至陈。
三年，晋会诸侯。
悼公问群臣可用者，祁傒举解狐。
解狐，傒之仇。
复问，举其子祁午。
君子曰： 祁傒可谓不党矣！
外举不隐仇，内举不隐子。
方会诸侯，悼公弟杨干乱行，魏绛戮其仆。
悼公怒，或谏公，公卒贤绛，任之政，使和戎，戎大亲附。
十一年，悼公曰： 自吾用魏绛，九合诸侯，和戎、翟，魏子之力也。
translation: 
Who will help me if I lose these three virtues?
I'd better die.
On Renwu in the twelfth month, Duke Li asked Xu Tong to lead 800 soldiers to attack and kill Sanque.
Xu Tong took the opportunity to kidnap Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan at the court, saying, "If you don't kill these two people, disaster will definitely fall on you, the king."
Duke Li said: "I killed three ministers in one morning. I can't bear to kill any more."
Xu Tong replied: But others will have the heart to kill you.
Duke Li refused to listen and apologized to Luan Shu, explaining that he was just punishing Que for his crimes: the officials were all reinstated.
The two kowtowed and said, "I'm so lucky, so lucky!"
Duke Li appointed Xu Tong as his minister.
On Yimao Day of the leap month, Duke Li went to Jiangli's house for a visit. Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan sent their party members to attack and arrest Duke Li, imprison him, and kill Xu Tong. They also sent people to welcome Prince Zhou back from the capital of Zhou and made him king. This is Duke Ao of Jin.
In the first year of the mourning period, on Gengshen day of the first month, Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan killed Duke Li and buried him with only a cart.
Duke Li died after being imprisoned for six days. Ten days after his death, on the Gengwu day, Zhixian welcomed the master Zhou to Jin. When he arrived at Jiang, Shaji and the officials formed an alliance to support the master Zhou. This was Duke Mourning.
On Xinsi day, I went to Wugong to worship.
On Yiyou day in the second month, Prince Zhou ascended the throne.
Mourning Duke Zhou's grandfather Jie was the son of Duke Xianggang of Jin. He failed to succeed to the throne and was known as Uncle Huan. Uncle Huan was the most beloved by Duke Xianggang.
Huan Shu gave birth to Hui Bo Tan, and Tan gave birth to mourning Gong Zhou.
Duke Zhou was only fourteen years old when he came to the throne.
Duke Mourning said: Both my grandfather and father failed to succeed to the throne and took refuge in Zhou Dynasty, where they died.
I thought I was alienated and never aspired to be the King of Jin.
Today, the officials have not forgotten the wishes of Wen Gong and Xianggong and supported me, a descendant of Uncle Huan. I rely entirely on the power of my ancestors and the ancestors to inherit the sacrifices of the Jin Dynasty. How dare I not work conscientiously!
I hope the doctors will help me well!
So he expelled the seven ministers who were disloyal to the king, repaired the old achievements, extended favors to the people, and supported the descendants of the heroes when Duke Wen returned to Jin.
In autumn, Jin attacked Zheng.
The Zheng army was defeated, and the Jin army invaded Chen again.
Three years later, Jin State met with the princes.
Duke Mou asked the ministers who could be appointed, and Qi Xi recommended Jie Hu.
Jie Hu is Qi Xi’s enemy.
The duke then asked who else there was, and Qi Xi recommended his son Qi Wu.
The gentleman said: Qi Xi can be regarded as impartial.
Don’t avoid your enemies when recommending people outside, and don’t avoid your sons when recommending people inside.
While meeting with the princes, the Duke's brother Yang Gan disrupted the military formation, and Wei Jiang killed his driver.
The duke was very angry, and some people advised him to remonstrate with him. The duke finally realized that Jiang was very virtuous, appointed him to take charge of government affairs, and sent him to make peace with Rong. Rong finally became very close to the state of Jin.
In the eleventh year, Duke Mourning said: Since I appointed Wei Jiang, I have met with the princes nine times and reconciled with Rong Zhai. This is all due to Wei Zi.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
赐之乐，三让乃受之。
冬，秦取我栎。
十四年，晋使六卿率诸侯伐秦，度泾，大败秦军，至棫林而去。
十五年，悼公问治国于师旷。
师旷曰： 惟仁义为本。
冬，悼公卒，子平公彪立。
平公元年，伐齐，齐灵公与战靡下，齐师败走。
晏婴曰： 君亦毋勇，何不止战？
遂去。
晋追，遂围临菑，尽烧屠其郭中。
东至胶，南至沂，齐皆城守，晋乃引兵归。
六年，鲁襄公朝晋。
晋栾逞有罪，奔齐。
八年，齐庄公微遣栾逞于曲沃，以兵随之。
齐兵上太行，栾逞从曲沃中反，袭入绛。
绛不戒，平公欲自杀，范献子止公，以其徒击逞，逞败走曲沃。
曲沃攻逞，逞死，遂灭栾氏宗。
逞者，栾书孙也。
其入绛，与魏氏谋。
齐庄公闻逞败，乃还，取晋之朝歌去，以报临菑之役也。
十年，齐崔杼弑其君庄公。
晋因齐乱，伐败齐于高唐去，报太行之役也。
十四年，吴延陵季子来使，与赵文子、韩宣子、魏献子语，曰： 晋国之政，卒归此三家矣。
十九年，齐使晏婴如晋，与叔向语。
叔向曰： 晋，季世也。
公厚赋为台池而不恤政，政在私门，其可久乎！
晏子然之。
二十二年，伐燕。
二十六年，平公卒，子昭公夷立。
昭公六年卒。
六卿强，公室卑。
子顷公去疾立。
顷公六年，周景王崩，王子争立。
晋六卿平王室乱，立敬王。
九年，鲁季氏逐其君昭公，昭公居干侯。
十一年，卫、宋使使请晋纳鲁君。
季平子私赂范献子，献子受之，乃谓晋君曰： 季氏无罪。
不果入鲁君。
十二年，晋之宗家祁傒孙，叔向子，相恶于君。
translation: 
The emperor gave him a band, but he declined three times before accepting it.
In winter, Qin State captured the oak trees of Jin State.
In the fourteenth year, the Jin State sent Liu Qing to lead the princes to attack the Qin State, crossed the Jing River, and defeated the Qin army until they left at Chulin.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Mou asked Shi Kuang about the principles of governing the country.
Shi Kuang said: Only benevolence and righteousness are fundamental.
In the winter, Duke Du passed away and his son Ping Gongbiao came to the throne.
In the first year of Ping Dynasty, Jin State attacked Qi State, and Qi Linggong fought with Jin State in Mixia. The Qi army was defeated and fled.
Yan Ying said: Since the king has no courage to continue fighting, why not stop fighting?
Qi Jun then left.
The Jin State pursued Linyi in hot pursuit, surrounded Linyi, burned all the houses in the outer city, and killed all the people in the outer city.
The Jin army reached Jiaoshui in the east and Yishui in the south. The Qi army held on to the city, and the Jin army retreated.
In the sixth year, Duke Xiang of Lu went to pay homage to the king of Jin.
Luan of Jin committed a crime and fled to Qi.
In the eighth year, Duke Zhuang of Qi secretly sent Luan Zhao to Quwo and sent troops to follow him.
When the Qi army went to the Taihang Mountains, Luan Zhao rebelled from Quwo Nei and attacked Jiang.
Jiang was unsuspecting and Ping Gong wanted to commit suicide. Fan Xianzi stopped Ping Gong and sent his own soldiers to attack Luan Cheng. Luan Cheng was defeated and fled to Quwo.
The Quwo people attacked Luan Zhao, and Luan Zhao was killed. The Quwo people also eliminated Luan Zhao's clan party.
Luan Zheng's grandson Luan Shu.
When he entered Jiang, he discussed it with Wei.
When Duke Zhuang of Qi heard that Luan Zhao had failed, he returned, captured Chaoge of Jin, and left in order to avenge the battle of Linyi.
In the tenth year, Cui Shu of Qi State killed his king Zhuang Gong.
The Jin State took advantage of the turmoil in the Qi State, and Gaotang defeated the Qi army and left in order to avenge the Taihang Battle.
In the fourteenth year, Yanling Jizi of Wu State came to Jin State as an envoy. He talked with Zhao Wenzi, Han Xuanzi, and Wei Xianzi. Afterwards, he said: The political power of Jin State will finally fall into the hands of these three families.
In the 19th year, Qi State sent Yan Ying as envoy to Jin State, and Yan Ying talked with Shu Xiang.
Shuxiang said: Jin is now in the last days.
Ping Gong levied heavy taxes on the people and built ponds and pavilions but did not engage in political affairs. The power of the country has fallen into the hands of private individuals. Can the Jin Kingdom last long like this?
Yanzi agreed.
In the twenty-second year, the Jin State attacked the Yan State.
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Ping died and his son Zhao Gongyi came to the throne.
Duke Zhao died in the sixth year.
The six ministers of Jin were strong, but the official family was weak.
His son Qing Gong died and came to the throne.
In the sixth year of Qinggong, King Zhou Jing passed away, and the princes competed for the throne.
The six ministers of Jin quelled the chaos in the Zhou royal family and supported King Jing.
In the ninth year, Lu Ji's family expelled their king Zhaogong, and Zhaogong was forced to live in Qianhou.
In the eleventh year, the states of Wei and Song sent envoys to request the state of Jin to send Lord Lu back home.
Ji Pingzi bribed Fan Xianzi privately. After Xianzi accepted the bribe, he said to Jin Jun: Ji is not guilty.
In the end, Jin did not send Lu Zhaogong back to his country.
In the twelfth year, the grandsons of Qi Xi, the Duke of Jin, and the sons of Shu Xiang, slandered each other in front of the king of Jin.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
六卿欲弱公室，乃遂以法尽灭其族，而分其邑为十县，各令其子为大夫。
晋益弱，六卿皆大。
十四年，顷公卒，子定公午立。
定公十一年，鲁阳虎奔晋，赵鞅简子舍之。
十二年，孔子相鲁。
十五年，赵鞅使邯郸大夫午，不信，欲杀午，午与中行寅、范吉射亲攻赵鞅，鞅走保晋阳。
定公围晋阳。
荀栎、韩不信、魏侈与范、中行为仇，乃移兵伐范、中行。
范、中行反，晋君击之，败范、中行。
范、中行走朝歌，保之。
韩、魏为赵鞅谢晋君，乃赦赵鞅，复位。
二十二年，晋败范、中行氏，二子奔齐。
三十年，定公与吴王夫差会黄池，争长，赵鞅时从，卒长吴。
三十一年，齐田常弑其君简公，而立简公弟骜为平公。
三十三年，孔子卒。
三十七年，定公卒，子出公凿立。
出公十七年，知伯与赵、韩、魏共分范、中行地以为邑。
出公怒，告齐、鲁，欲以伐四卿。四卿恐，遂反攻出公。
出公奔齐，道死。
故知伯乃立昭公曾孙骄为晋君，是为哀公。
哀公大父雍，晋昭公少子也，号为戴子。
戴子生忌。
忌善知伯，蚤死，故知伯欲尽并晋，未敢，乃立忌子骄为君。
当是时，晋国政皆决知伯，晋哀公不得有所制。
知伯遂有范、中行地，最强。
哀公四年，赵襄子、韩康子、魏桓子共杀知伯，尽并其地。
十八年，哀公卒，子幽公柳立。
幽公之时，晋畏，反朝韩、赵、魏之君。
独有绛、曲沃，余皆入三晋。
translation: 
The Six Ministers wanted to weaken the monarch's power, so they killed everyone in the two families in accordance with the criminal law, divided their fiefdoms into ten counties, and each appointed his own son to be a doctor.
The power of the Duke of Jin became weaker, and the six ministers became stronger.
In the fourteenth year, Qinggong passed away and his son Dinggongwu came to the throne.
In the eleventh year of Dinggong's reign, Yang Hu of Lu State fled to Jin State, and Zhao Yang and Jianzi stayed with him.
In the twelfth year, Confucius became the prime minister of Lu.
In the fifteenth year, Zhao Yang made an agreement with Wu, the Handan doctor, to move Weigong's Wumian family to Jinyang. Handan's father and brother refused. Zhao Yang thought he was unfaithful and wanted to kill Wu. Wu, Zhongxingyin and Fan Jishe attacked Zhao Yang together, and Zhao Yang fled to Jinyang to defend.
Jin Dinggong surrounded Jinyang.
Xun Yue, Han Buxin, and Wei Chi had enemies with Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin, so they mobilized their troops to attack Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin.
Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin rebelled. The Jin army attacked them and defeated Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin.
Fan Qushe and Zhongxing Yin fled to Chaoge and defended the city.
Han Buxin and Wei Chi apologized to the king of Jin on Zhao Yang's behalf, so the king of Jin pardoned Zhao Yang and restored his position.
In the 22nd year, Jin defeated Fan Jishe and Zhonghangshi, and these two people fled to Qi.
Thirty years ago, Duke Dinggong and Fu Chai, the king of Wu, met in Huangchi and competed to be the leader. Zhao Yang was a trader at the time and finally made the king of Wu the leader.
In the thirty-first year, Tian Chang of the state of Qi killed his own king, Duke Jian, and appointed Duke Jian's younger brother Ao as Duke Ping.
In the thirty-third year of Jin Dinggong's reign, Confucius passed away.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Ding died, and his son Chu Gongzhi came to the throne.
In the seventeenth year of his absence, Zhibo, Zhao Yang, Han Buxin, and Wei Chi jointly incorporated the territories of Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin into their own fiefs.
Chugong of Jin was furious and appealed to Qi and Lu, hoping to take the opportunity to attack the four ministers. The four ministers panicked and counterattacked Chugong.
He was forced to flee to Qi State and died on the way.
So Uncle Zhi made Duke Zhao's great-grandson Jiao the king of Jin, and this was Duke Ai.
Duke Ai's grandfather Yong was the youngest son of Duke Zhao of Jin, and his nickname was Dai Zi.
Dai Zi gave birth to Ji.
Ji had a close relationship with Zhibo, but he died early. Therefore, Zhibo wanted to annex the Jin Kingdom, but he did not dare to do so, so he made Ji's son Jiao the king of Jin.
At that time, all government affairs of the Jin State were decided by Zhibo, and Duke Ai of Jin could not control the government affairs.
Therefore, Zhibo took possession of Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin's territory, becoming the most powerful among the six ministers.
In the fourth year of Duke Ai, Zhao Xiangzi, Han Kangzi, and Wei Huanzi jointly killed Zhibo and annexed all his lands.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Ai passed away and his son You Gong Liu came to the throne.
When Duke You was in power, the kings of Jin were afraid of the officials due to their weakness, and instead worshiped the kings of Han, Zhao and Wei.
The king of Jin only occupied Jiang and Quwo, and the rest were merged into the three Jins.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
十五年，魏文侯初立。
十八年，幽公淫妇人，夜窃出邑中，盗杀幽公。
魏文侯以兵诛晋乱，立幽公子止，是为烈公。
烈公十九年，周威烈王赐赵、韩、魏皆命为诸侯。
二十七年，烈公卒，子孝公颀立。
孝公九年，魏武侯初立，袭邯郸，不胜而去。
十七年，孝公卒，子静公俱酒立。
是岁，齐威王元年也。
静公二年，魏武侯、韩哀侯、赵敬侯灭晋后而三分其地。
静公迁为家人，晋绝不祀。
太史公曰：晋文公，古所谓明君也，亡居外十九年，至困约，及即位而行赏，尚忘介子推，况骄主乎？
灵公既弑，其后成、景致严，至厉大刻，大夫惧诛，祸作。
悼公以后日衰，六卿专权。
故君道之御其臣下，固不易哉！
translation: 
In the fifteenth year, Wei Wenhou ascended the throne.
In the eighteenth year, Duke You raped a woman and went out of the city at night, where he was killed by bandits.
Marquis Wen of Wei sent troops to quell the civil strife in Jin, and appointed Duke You's son Zhi, who was Duke Lie.
In the nineteenth year of Duke Lie, King Weilie of Zhou granted the states of Zhao, Han, and Wei the title of prince, and made them all princes.
In the twenty-seventh year, Lie Gong passed away, and his son Xiao Gongqi came to the throne.
In the ninth year of Duke Xiao's reign, Marquis Wu of Wei had just ascended the throne and attacked Handan. He failed to win and left.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Xiao passed away and his son, Duke Jing, came to the throne.
This year is the first year of King Qi Wei.
In the second year of Jinggong, Marquis Wu of Wei, Marquis Han Ai, and Marquis Zhao Jing destroyed the Jin Kingdom and divided the Jin land into three parts.
Jinggong became a commoner, and the state of Jin stopped offering sacrifices.
Tai Shigong said: Jin Wengong was a wise monarch in ancient times. He lived in exile for nineteen years and lived in extreme poverty. When he came to the throne, he gave rewards and forgot about Jie Zitui. What about those arrogant and extravagant monarchs?
After Duke Linggong was killed, Duke Cheng and Duke Jin were extremely strict, and Duke Li was even more harsh. The officials were afraid of execution, so troubles occurred frequently.
After the mourning of Duke Jin, the state of Jin became weaker and weaker day by day, and the six ministers took over the power exclusively.
Therefore, it is not easy for a king to control his subjects!


