Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩子曰： 儒以文乱法，而侠以武犯禁。
二者皆讥，而学士多称于世云。
至如以术取宰相卿大夫，辅翼其世主，功名俱着于春秋，固无可言者。
及若季次、原宪，闾巷人也，读书怀独行君子之德，义不苟合当世，当世亦笑之。
故季次、原宪终身空室蓬户，褐衣疏食不厌。
死而已四百馀年，而弟子志之不倦。
今游侠，其行虽不轨于正义，然其言必信，其行必果，已诺必诚，不爱其躯，赴士之戹困，既已存亡死生矣，而不矜其能，羞伐其德，盖亦有足多者焉。
且缓急，人之所时有也。
太史公曰：昔者虞舜窘于井廪，伊尹负于鼎俎，傅说匿于傅险，吕尚困于棘津，夷吾桎梏，百里饭牛，仲尼畏匡，菜色陈、蔡。
此皆学士所谓有道仁人也，犹然遭此菑，况以中材而涉乱世之末流乎？
其遇害何可胜道哉！
鄙人有言曰： 何知仁义，已飨其利者为有德。
故伯夷丑周，饿死首阳山，而文武不以其故贬王；跖、蹻暴戾，其徒诵义无穷。
由此观之， 窃钩者诛，窃国者侯，侯之门仁义存 ，非虚言也。
今拘学或抱咫尺之义，久孤于世，岂若卑论侪俗，与世沈浮而取荣名哉！
而布衣之徒，设取予然诺，千里诵义，为死不顾世，此亦有所长，非苟而已也。
故士穷窘而得委命，此岂非人之所谓贤豪间者邪？
诚使乡曲之侠，予季次、原宪比权量力，效功于当世，不同日而论矣。
要以功见言信，侠客之义又曷可少哉！
古布衣之侠，靡得而闻已。
translation: 
Han Feizi said: Confucian scholars quoted ancient texts to disturb the rule of law, while chivalrous men violated laws by using force.
Han Fei ridiculed both types of people, but Confucian scholars were mostly praised by the world.
As for using power to obtain the position of prime minister, minister, and official, assisting the contemporary emperor, and his achievements are recorded in history books, there is nothing to say about this.
As for Ji Ci and Yuan Xian, they were ordinary people who studied hard, cherished the unique virtues of gentlemen, adhered to morality, and did not go along with the contemporary secular world. Contemporary people also laughed at them.
Therefore, Ji Ci and Yuan Xian lived in empty thatched houses all their lives, wearing coarse clothes and not even having enough to eat.
They have been dead for more than four hundred years, but their disciples from generation to generation miss them tirelessly.
Although the current rangers' actions do not conform to the standards of morality and law, they must keep their word and be resolute in their actions. They must fulfill what they have promised to show their honesty and are willing to sacrifice their lives to save others in danger. He has gone through the test of life and death, but he does not boast of his abilities and is ashamed to show off his merits. This is probably something worthy of praise!
Besides, critical things happen to people from time to time.
Tai Shigong said: In the past, Yu Shun encountered dangers when digging wells and building houses, Yi Yin once carried Ding Chu as a cook, Fu Yue once hid in Fu Yan and did hard labor, Lu Shang once suffered hardship in Jijin, Guan Zhong once wore shackles and handcuffs, Baili Xi once fed cattle as a slave, Confucius once was besieged in Kuangdi, and suffered starvation in Chen and Kui.
These people are all virtuous and benevolent people praised by Confucian scholars, but they have encountered such disasters, let alone ordinary people with moderate talents who have encountered troubled times?
How can we finish talking about the disasters they encountered?
Secular people have this saying: Why bother distinguishing between benevolence and righteousness? Those who have benefited are virtuous.
Therefore, Boyi thought it was shameful to eat Zhou millet and starved to death in Shouyang Mountain; but King Wen and King Wu did not harm the reputation of the kings. Pirates Zhi and Zhuang Qi were cruel and brutal, but their followers praised them for their boundless morality.
It can be seen from this that those who steal clothes and belt hooks will be beheaded, while those who steal state power are made marquises. People who are made marquises have benevolence and righteousness. These words are not false or untrue.
Nowadays, those who stick to one-sided views, some clinging to narrow principles, and have been isolated from the world for a long time, how can they compare with those who adapt to the world with low views and follow the ups and downs of the world to gain glory and fame?
As for ordinary people, they value the virtue of taking and giving in accordance with morality and fulfilling their promises. They follow morality thousands of miles away and die for morality regardless of worldly criticism. This is also their strength and cannot be done casually.
Therefore, when scholars are in poverty and embarrassment, they can devote themselves to learning and face their fate. Isn't this what people call the wise and heroic people?
If we compare the power, talent, and contribution of folk knight-errants to Ji Ji and Yuan Xian, they cannot be the same.
In short, from the perspective of the appearance of things and the fact that one must keep one's word, how can the knight's just behavior be missing?
I have never heard of civilian chivalrous people in ancient times.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
近世延陵、孟尝、春申、平原、信陵之徒，皆因王者亲属，藉于有土卿相之富厚，招天下贤者，显名诸侯，不可谓不贤者矣。
比如顺风而呼，声非加疾，其埶激也。
至如闾巷之侠，修行砥名，声施于天下，莫不称贤，是为难耳。
然儒、墨皆排摈不载。
自秦以前，匹夫之侠，湮灭不见，余甚恨之。
以余所闻，汉兴有朱家、田仲、王公、剧孟、郭解之徒，虽时扞当世之文罔，然其私义廉絜退让，有足称者。
名不虚立，士不虚附。
至如朋党宗强比周，设财役贫，豪暴侵凌孤弱，恣欲自快，游侠亦丑之。
余悲世俗不察其意，而猥以朱家、郭解等令与暴豪之徒同类而共笑之也。
鲁朱家者，与高祖同时。
鲁人皆以儒教，而朱家用侠闻。
所藏活豪士以百数，其馀庸人不可胜言。
然终不伐其能，歆其德，诸所尝施，唯恐见之。
振人不赡，先从贫贱始。
家无馀财，衣不完采，食不重味，乘不过軥牛。
专趋人之急，甚己之私。
既阴脱季布将军之戹，及布尊贵，终身不见也。
自关以东，莫不延颈原交焉。
楚田仲以侠闻，喜剑，父事朱家，自以为行弗及。
田仲已死，而雒阳有剧孟。
周人以商贾为资，而剧孟以任侠显诸侯。
吴楚反时，条侯为太尉，乘传车将至河南，得剧孟，喜曰： 吴楚举大事而不求孟，吾知其无能为已矣。
天下骚动，宰相得之若得一敌国云。
剧孟行大类朱家，而好博，多少年之戏。
translation: 
In modern times, people such as Yanling Jizi, Mengchang Lord, Chunshen Lord, Pingyuan Lord, and Xinling Lord were all relatives of the kings. They relied on the wealth of their feudal states and ministers to recruit talents from all over the world, and they became famous among the vassal states. It cannot be said that they were not talents.
This is like shouting against the wind. The sound is not louder, but the listener feels clearly that this is due to the strong wind.
As for the commoner knight in Luxiang, he has cultivated his moral character and honed his reputation, and his reputation has spread all over the world. No one will not praise his virtue, which is difficult to do.
However, both Confucianism and Mohism rejected them and did not record them in their documents.
Since the Qin Dynasty, the deeds of civilian knights have been buried and cannot be seen. I am very sorry.
According to what I heard, since the founding of the Han Dynasty, there have been people such as Zhu Jia, Tian Zhong, Wang Gong, Ju Meng, and Guo Xie. Although they often violated the laws and prohibitions of the dynasty, their personal behavior was moral, honest and modest, and they were commendable.
Their reputation was not falsely established, and scholars did not echo them without basis.
As for those powerful people who form gangs, collude with each other, rely on their wealth to enslave the poor, use their power and violence to bully the lonely and weak, indulge their desires and satisfy themselves for their own pleasure, this is also considered shameful by the knight-errants.
I feel sad that secular people cannot understand the true meaning of this, but mistakenly regard the Zhu family, Guo Xie and others as the same kind as the violent and powerful people and ridicule them together.
The Zhu family of Lu State and Gaozu were of the same era.
The people of Lu were educated with Confucianism, but the Zhu family was famous for being a knight.
He has hid and rescued hundreds of heroes, and countless ordinary people he has saved.
But he never boasted of his talents or was complacent about his kindness. Those to whom he had given favors were afraid of seeing them again.
He helped others in need, starting with the poor and lowly.
There was no money left in his family, his clothes were torn and incomplete, he didn't have more than two kinds of meat dishes for each meal, and his ride was just an ox-drawn cart.
He was more interested in rescuing others in distress than doing anything private for himself.
He once secretly saved General Ji Bu from the misfortune of being killed. However, after General Ji Bu became honored, he refused to see him again for the rest of his life.
From Hangu Pass to the east, people craned their necks hoping to make friends with him.
Tian Zhong of Chu was famous for being a knight. He liked swordsmanship and served the Zhu family like his father. He thought that his conduct could not keep up with the Zhu family.
After Tian Zhong's death, a drama Meng appeared in Luoyang.
The people of Luoyang made a living by doing business, and Ju Meng became famous among the princes because of his chivalry.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Zhou Yafu, the marquis of Tiao, was a Taiwei. He rushed to Luoyang in a post car, found Ju Meng, and said happily: The seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu launched a rebellion without asking Ju Meng for help. I know they have done nothing.
The world is in turmoil, and the Taiwei getting him is like getting an equal country.
Ju Meng's behavior is roughly similar to that of the Zhu family, but he likes to play chess. Most of what he does is a teenager's game.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
然剧孟母死，自远方送丧盖千乘。
及剧孟死，家无馀十金之财。
而符离人王孟亦以侠称江淮之间。
是时济南瞷氏、陈周庸亦以豪闻，景帝闻之，使使尽诛此属。
其后代诸白、梁韩无辟、阳翟薛兄、陕韩孺纷纷复出焉。
郭解，轵人也，字翁伯，善相人者许负外孙也。
解父以任侠，孝文时诛死。
解为人短小精悍，不饮酒。
少时阴贼，慨不快意，身所杀甚众。
以躯借交报仇，藏命作奸剽攻，休铸钱掘冢，固不可胜数。
适有天幸，窘急常得脱，若遇赦。
及解年长，更折节为俭，以德报怨，厚施而薄望。
然其自喜为侠益甚。
既已振人之命，不矜其功，其阴贼着于心，卒发于睚眦如故云。
而少年慕其行，亦辄为报仇，不使知也。
解姊子负解之势，与人饮，使之嚼。
非其任，强必灌之。
人怒，拔刀刺杀解姊子，亡去。
解姊怒曰： 以翁伯之义，人杀吾子，贼不得。
弃其尸于道，弗葬，欲以辱解。
解使人微知贼处。
贼窘自归，具以实告解。
解曰： 公杀之固当，吾儿不直。
遂去其贼，罪其姊子，乃收而葬之。
诸公闻之，皆多解之义，益附焉。
解出入，人皆避之。有一人独箕倨视之，解遣人问其名姓。
客欲杀之。解曰： 居邑屋至不见敬，是吾德不修也，彼何罪！
乃阴属尉史曰： 是人，吾所急也，至践更时脱之。
每至践更，数过，吏弗求。
translation: 
But when Ju Meng's mother passed away, there were probably thousands of cars coming from far away to mourn her.
When Ju Meng died, his family didn't even have ten gold coins.
At this time, Wang Meng from Fuli was also famous among the Yangtze River and Huaihe River for his chivalry.
At this time, Zhou Yong of Chendi, a family named Gui in Jinan, was also famous as a hero. After Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty heard about it, he sent envoys to kill all such people.
After that, people named Bai from Daijun, Han Wupi from Liangdi, Brother Xue from Yangdi, and Han Ru from Shaanxi appeared one after another.
Guo Xie was a native of Zhi County, and his courtesy name was Weng Bo. He is the grandson of Xu Ning, who is good at meeting people.
Guo Xie's father was killed during the reign of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty because he was a knight.
Guo Xie was a short man, smart and strong, and he did not drink.
When he was a child, he was cruel and cruel, and when he was angry and unhappy, he killed many people with his own hands.
He did not hesitate to sacrifice his life to avenge his friends, hid desperadoes to commit illegal robberies, minted coins privately when he stopped, and dug graves. His illegal activities were countless.
But they can be blessed by God, often escape from distress and crisis, or encounter amnesty.
When Guo Xie got older, he changed his behavior, took care of himself, repaid those who hated him with kindness, gave more to others, and rarely resented others.
But his own preference for Xingxia became stronger and stronger.
He has saved other people's lives, but does not boast of his merits, but his heart is still cruel and vicious, and his sudden anger and violence over trivial matters are still the same as before.
The young man at that time admired his behavior and often avenged him, but did not let him know.
The son of Guo Xie's sister relied on Guo Xie's power to drink with others and asked them to toast.
If the person's alcohol capacity is small and he can't drink anymore, he will force-fed the person.
The man got angry, drew his sword, stabbed Guo Xie's sister's son to death, and then ran away.
Guo Xie's sister got angry and said: With my brother Weng Bo's loyalty, they killed my son but could not catch the murderer.
So she dumped her son's body on the road without burying it, hoping to humiliate Guo Xie.
Guo Xie sent people to secretly find out where the murderer was.
The murderer was embarrassed and came back on his own initiative to tell Guo Xie the real situation.
Guo Xie said: You should have killed him, my child is not justified.
So he let the murderer go, put the blame on his sister's son, collected his body and buried him.
When people heard the news, they all praised Guo Xie's moral behavior and became more attached to him.
Every time Guo Xie went out or came back, people avoided him. Only one man sat on the ground and looked at him arrogantly. Guo Xie sent someone to ask his name.
Someone among Guo Xie's retainers wanted to kill the man. Guo Xie said: "I live in the countryside and are not respected by others. This is because I have not cultivated my own morals enough. What crime does he have?"
So he secretly asked Wei Shi: This person is the one I care about most. When it is his turn to serve, please exempt him.
From then on, when he was serving in the army, there were many times when the county officials did not find this person who was rude to Guo Xie.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
怪之，问其故，乃解使脱之。
箕踞者乃肉袒谢罪。
少年闻之，愈益慕解之行。
雒阳人有相仇者，邑中贤豪居间者以十数，终不听。
客乃见郭解。
解夜见仇家，仇家曲听解。
解乃谓仇家曰： 吾闻雒阳诸公在此间，多不听者。
今子幸而听解，解柰何乃从他县夺人邑中贤大夫权乎！
乃夜去，不使人知，曰： 且无用，待我去，令雒阳豪居其间，乃听之。
解执恭敬，不敢乘车入其县廷。
之旁郡国，为人请求事，事可出，出之；不可者，各厌其意，然后乃敢尝酒食。
诸公以故严重之，争为用。
邑中少年及旁近县贤豪，夜半过门常十馀车，请得解客舍养之。
及徙豪富茂陵也，解家贫，不中訾，吏恐，不敢不徙。
卫将军为言： 郭解家贫不中徙。
上曰： 布衣权至使将军为言，此其家不贫。
解家遂徙。
诸公送者出千馀万。
轵人杨季主子为县掾，举徙解。
解兄子断杨掾头。
由此杨氏与郭氏为仇。
解入关，关中贤豪知与不知，闻其声，争交驩解。
解为人短小，不饮酒，出未尝有骑。
已又杀杨季主。
杨季主家上书，人又杀之阙下。
上闻，乃下吏捕解。
解亡，置其母家室夏阳，身至临晋。
临晋籍少公素不知解，解冒，因求出关。
籍少公已出解，解转入太原，所过辄告主人家。
吏逐之，迹至籍少公。
translation: 
The man felt strange and asked the reason. It turned out that Guo Xie had exempted him from the service.
So, he exposed his body and went to Guo Xie to apologize.
When the young people heard this news, they admired Guo Xie's behavior even more.
There were people in Luoyang who were enemies of each other, and there were dozens of wise men and heroes in the city to mediate between them, but the two sides never listened to persuasion.
The retainers came to see Guo Xie and explain the situation.
Guo Xie went to meet with his enemies at night. Out of respect for Guo Xie, the enemies reluctantly listened to his advice and prepared to reconcile.
Guo Xie said to his enemies: I heard that the princes of Luoyang were trying to mediate for you, but most of you refused to listen.
Now that you have listened to my advice, how can I come from other counties to usurp the rights of the virtuous officials in this city?
So Guo Xie left that night without letting anyone know, saying: "Don't listen to my mediation for the time being. After I leave, let the heroes of Luoyang mediate, and you just listen to them."
Guo Xie maintained a respectful attitude towards others and did not dare to enter the county government office by car.
He went to nearby counties to do things for others. If the things could be done, he would definitely get them done. If the things couldn't be done, he would have to satisfy all parties involved before he dared to go and have dinner with others.
Therefore, everyone respects him very much and competes to serve him.
Young men in the city and wise men and heroes from nearby counties often came to visit Guo Xie in more than ten cars in the middle of the night, asking to take the guests of Guo Xie's family back to their homes for support.
In the second year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the imperial court wanted to move wealthy families from various counties to live in Maoling. Guo Xie's family was poor and did not meet the transfer standard of three million yuan. However, Guo Xie's name was on the relocation list, so the officials were afraid and did not dare to let Guo Xie move.
At that time, General Wei Qing told the emperor on behalf of Guo Xie: Guo Xie's family is poor and does not meet the criteria for relocation.
But the emperor said: The power of a common man can make the general speak for him, which shows that his family is not poor.
Guo Xie's family was then moved to Maoling.
People paid a total of more than 10 million to see Guo Xie off.
The son of Yang Jizhu, a native of Zhi County, was a rafter in the county, and he nominated Guo Xie to be moved there.
The son of Guo Xie's brother beheaded Yangxian Rong.
From then on, the Yang family and the Guo family became enemies.
Guo Xie moved to Guanzhong. The wise men and heroes in Guanzhong, no matter whether they knew Guo Xie before or not, now that they heard about his reputation, they all rushed to make friends with Guo Xie.
Guo Xie is short, does not drink alcohol, and does not ride a horse when going out.
Later, he killed Master Yang Jizhu.
Yang Jizhu's family wrote a letter to complain, and someone killed the complainer under the palace gate.
When the emperor heard the news, he ordered the officials to capture Guo Xie.
Guo Xie fled, placed his mother in Xia Yang, and fled to Linjin himself.
The young master from Linjin was not acquainted with Guo Xie, so Guo Xie took the liberty of meeting him and asked him to help him get out of confinement.
After Ji Shaogong sent Guo Xie out of the customs, Guo Xie traveled to Taiyuan. Wherever he went, he often told the people who kept him room and board about his situation.
The officials pursued Guo Xie and tracked him to the home of the young master.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
少公自杀，口绝。
久之，乃得解。穷治所犯，为解所杀，皆在赦前。
轵有儒生侍使者坐，客誉郭解，生曰： 郭解专以奸犯公法，何谓贤！
解客闻，杀此生，断其舌。
吏以此责解，解实不知杀者。
杀者亦竟绝，莫知为谁。
吏奏解无罪。
御史大夫公孙弘议曰： 解布衣为任侠行权，以睚眦杀人，解虽弗知，此罪甚于解杀之。
当大逆无道。
遂族郭解翁伯。
自是之后，为侠者极众，敖而无足数者。
然关中长安樊仲子，槐里赵王孙，长陵高公子，西河郭公仲，太原卤公孺，临淮儿长卿，东阳田君孺，虽为侠而逡逡有退让君子之风。
至若北道姚氏，西道诸杜，南道仇景，东道赵他、羽公子，南阳赵调之徒，此盗跖居民间者耳，曷足道哉！
此乃乡者朱家之羞也。
太史公曰：吾视郭解，状貌不及中人，言语不足采者。
然天下无贤与不肖，知与不知，皆慕其声，言侠者皆引以为名。
谚曰： 人貌荣名，岂有既乎！ 于戏，惜哉！
translation: 
Ji Shaogong committed suicide and his confession was cut off.
It took a long time for the government to arrest Guo Xie and thoroughly investigate his crimes. They found that all the people killed by Guo Xie had happened before the amnesty order was announced.
Once, a Confucian scholar from Zhi County was sitting around with the envoys who came to investigate Guo Xie's case. Guo Xie's disciples praised Guo Xie. The Confucian scholar said: Guo Xie only loves to do evil and illegal things. How can we say that he is a wise man?
When Guo Xie's disciples heard this, they killed the Confucian scholar and cut out his tongue.
The officials questioned Guo Xie and asked him to hand over the murderer, but Guo Xie did not know who the murderer was.
The murderer has never been found, and we don’t know who he is.
The officials reported to the emperor that Guo Xie was not guilty.
Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, commented: Guo Xie acted as a commoner, played tricks, violated the law, and killed people for trivial matters. Although Guo Xie did not know it, this crime was more serious than his own murder.
Guo Xie was sentenced to the crime of treason and immorality.
So he killed Guo Jie's entire family.
From then on, there were many people who practiced chivalry, but they were all arrogant and unworthy of praise.
But Fan Zhongzi from Chang'an in Guanzhong, Wangsun Zhao from Huaili, Gao Gongzi from Changling, Guo Gongzhong from Xihe, Lu Gongru from Taiyuan, Changqing from Linhuai, Tian Junru from Dongyang, although they are chivalrous, they are respectful, cautious and modest.
As for the Yao family in the North Road, some people with the surname Du in the West Road, Qiu Jing in the South Road, Zhao Ta, Yu Gongzi in the East Road, and Zhao Tiao in Nanyang, these are just thieves among the people, and they are not worth mentioning!
This was something people like the Zhu family were ashamed of in the past.
Tai Shigong said: I think Guo Xie's appearance is not as good as that of a middle-aged man, and his language is not worth mentioning.
But people in the world, whether they are virtuous or unworthy, whether they know him or not, all admire his reputation, and those who talk about knight-errants all praise Guo Xie to improve their own reputation.
The proverb says: If a person can use a glorious reputation as an appearance, will there be an end to it? Alas, what a pity!


