Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 5, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
五年冬十月，汉王追项羽至阳夏南，止军，与齐王信、魏相国越期会击楚。至固陵，不会。
楚击汉军，大破之，汉王复入壁，深堑而守。
谓张良曰： 诸侯不从，奈何？
良对曰： 楚兵且破，未有分地，其不至固宜。
君王能与共天下，可立致也。
齐王信之立，非君王意，信亦不自坚。
彭越本定梁地，始，君王以魏豹故，拜越为相国。
今豹死，越亦望王，而君王不早定。
今能取睢阳以北至谷城皆以王彭越，从陈以东傅海与齐王信，信家在楚，其意欲复得故邑。
能出捐此地以许两人，使各自为战，则楚易散也 。
于是汉王发使使韩信、彭越。
至，皆引兵来。
十一月，刘贾入楚地，围寿春。
汉亦遣人诱楚大司马周殷。
殷畔楚，以舒屠六，举九江兵迎黥布，并行屠城父，随刘贾皆会。
十二月，围羽垓下。
羽夜闻汉军四面皆楚歌，知尽得楚地。羽与数百骑走，是以兵大败。
灌婴追斩羽东城。
楚地悉定，独鲁不下。
汉王引天下兵欲屠之，为其守节礼义之国，乃持羽头示其父兄，鲁乃降。
初，怀王封羽为鲁公，及死，鲁又为之坚守，故以鲁公葬羽于谷城。
汉王为发丧，哭临而去。
封项伯等四人为列侯，赐姓刘氏。
诸民略在楚者皆归之。
汉王还至定陶，驰入齐王信壁，夺其军。
初项羽所立临江王共敖前死，子尉嗣立为王，不降。
遣卢绾、刘贾击虏尉。
春正月，追尊兄伯号曰武哀侯。
下令曰： 楚地已定，义帝亡后，欲存恤楚众，以定其主。
齐王信习楚风俗，更立为楚王，王淮北，都下邳。
魏相国建城侯彭越勤劳魏民，卑下士卒，常以少击众，数破楚军，其以魏故地王之，号曰梁王，都定陶。
translation: 
In the winter of tenth month of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu, the King of Han pursued Xiang Yu to the south of Yangxia, stopped advancing, and made an appointment with Qi King Han Xin and Wei Xiangguo Peng Yue to attack the Chu army. The Han King's troops reached Guling, but Han, Peng and others failed to meet up as scheduled.
Xiang Yu led the troops to attack the army of the King of Han and defeated the Han soldiers. The king of Han withdrew his troops and returned to the original fortress, digging a deep ditch to defend himself.
The King of Han worriedly said to Zhang Liang: "What should we do if the princes do not want to obey us?"
Zhang Liang replied: Even if the Chu army is defeated, Han Xin and Peng Yue will not gain the benefit of increasing their territory. It is reasonable for them not to join forces.
If the king can share the fruits of victory with them, they will come to join forces immediately.
The appointment of Han Xin as King of Qi was not out of the King's original intention. Han Xin still lacked confidence in the King.
Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region, but later the king made Peng Yue the Prime Minister of Wei because King Bao of Wei came and surrendered.
Now that King Bao of Wei is dead, Peng Yue also wants to claim the throne himself, but the king has yet to make a decision.
If the area north of Suiyang to Gucheng could be allocated to Peng Yue and he could be crowned king, and the area east of Chen to the Bohai Sea could be allocated to King Han Xin of Qi, whose family was in Chu, he originally wanted to regain his homeland.
The king abandoned these two lands to allow Han and Peng to fight on their own, and Chu Xiang would be easily defeated.
So the King of Han sent envoys to inform Han Xin and Peng Yue of the above intentions.
As soon as the notice arrived, Han Pengdu led his troops to join forces.
In November, Liu Jia invaded Chu and besieged Shouchun.
The king of Han also sent people to lure Zhou Yin, the great commander of Chu, to surrender.
Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu and violently attacked six counties with troops from Shu County. He led troops from Jiujiang to cooperate with Yingbu and attacked Chengfu County. Yingbu and Liu Jia both joined forces with the King of Han.
In the winter of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, in December, Han soldiers surrounded Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
Xiang Yu heard Chu troops on all sides at night and knew that the Han soldiers had completely controlled the positions around the Chu troops, so he led hundreds of cavalry to abandon the camp and break out. The Chu troops were defeated because they had no master.
Guan Ying pursued Xiang Yu in Dongcheng.
The land of Chu was completely pacified, but the land of Lu did not surrender.
The King of Han led his army to massacre the city, but was moved by the local soldiers' actions to uphold Xiang Yu's integrity, so he stopped the attack and displayed Xiang Yu's head to inform Lu's father and brother, who surrendered.
Originally, King Huai made Xiang Yu the Duke of Lu. After Xiang Yu's death, the land of Lu defended him, so Xiang Yu was buried in Gucheng, Jibei with the ceremony of Duke Lu.
The King of Han mourned for Xiang Yu and went to mourn for him.
The king of Han made Xiang Bo and four other marquises and gave them the surname Liu.
People from other places who were plundered and brought to Chu were all sent back to their place of origin.
The King of Han returned to Dingtao, entered Han Xin's camp with lightning speed, and deprived Han Xin of his military power.
Gong Ao, the king of Linjiang who was originally established by Xiang Yu, died, and his son Wei succeeded him as king and refused to surrender.
The king of Han sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to conquer Linjiang Wangwei.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han honored his brother Liu Bo as the Marquis of Wu Ai.
The order was given: The Chu region has been pacified, and the Righteous Emperor has no descendants. In order to appease the people of the Chu region, he decided to appoint another master of the Chu region.
King Han Xin of Qi understood the customs and customs of the Chu land, and now he was appointed King of Chu. He governed the Huaibei region, with his capital at Xiapi.
Peng Yue, the Marquis of Wei Xiangguo who founded the city, cared about the people of Wei and loved the soldiers. He often defeated the Chu army with a small number and defeated the Chu army several times. He gave the old land of Wei as his fiefdom and named it King of Liang. He was all in Dingtao.

summary:
summary line 0: In the winter of the fifth year, the King of Han pursued Xiang Yu but his allies Han Xin and Peng Yue failed to meet as scheduled. Xiang Yu defeated the Han forces, forcing the king to retreat and fortify his position. Following Zhang Liang's advice to share conquered territories, the king promised Han Xin the lands east of Chen to the Bohai Sea and Peng Yue the area north of Suiyang to Gucheng. Both then joined forces. Liu Jia invaded Chu, and Zhou Yin surrendered. In December, Han forces surrounded Xiang Yu at Gaixia. Hearing Chu songs on all sides, Xiang Yu fled with cavalry and was pursued to Dongcheng. The Chu lands were pacified, though Lu initially refused to surrender until shown Xiang Yu's head. Xiang Yu was buried with the rites of Duke of Lu.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
又曰： 兵不得休八年，万民与苦甚，今天下事毕，其赦天下殊死以下。
于是诸侯上疏曰： 楚王韩信、韩王信、淮南王英布、梁王彭越、故衡山王吴芮、赵王张敖、燕王臧荼昧死再拜言大王陛下：先时，秦为亡道，天下诛之。
大王先得秦王，定关中，于天下功最多。
存亡定危，救败继绝，以安万民，功盛德厚。
又加惠于诸侯王有功者，使得立社稷。
地分已定，而位号比拟，亡上下之分，大王功德之著，于后世不宣。
昧死再拜上皇帝尊号。
汉王曰： 寡人闻帝者贤者有也，虚言亡实之名，非所取也。
今诸侯王皆推高寡人，将何以处之哉？
诸侯王皆曰： 大王起于细微，灭乱秦，威动海内。
又以辟陋之地，自汉中行威德，诛不义，立有功，平定海内，功臣皆受地食邑，非私之地。
大王德施四海，诸侯王不足以道之，居帝位甚实宜，愿大王以幸天下。
汉王曰： 诸侯王幸以为便于天下之民，则可矣。
于是诸侯王及太尉长安侯臣绾等三百人，与博士稷嗣君叔孙通谨择良日二月甲午，上尊号。汉王即皇帝位于汜水之阳。
尊王后曰皇后，太子曰皇太子，追尊先媪曰昭灵夫人。
诏曰： 故衡山王吴芮与子二人、兄子一人，从百粤之兵，以佐诸侯，诛暴秦，有大功，诸侯立以为王。
项羽侵夺之地，谓之番君。
其以长沙、豫章、象郡、桂林、南海立番君芮为长沙王。
又曰： 故粤王亡诸世奉粤祀，秦侵夺其地，使其社稷不得血食。
诸侯伐秦，亡诸身帅闽中兵以佐灭秦，项羽废而弗立。
今以为闽粤王，王闽中地，勿使失职。
帝乃西都洛阳。
translation: 
He also said in the order: The war has lasted for eight years, causing serious disasters to the people. Today, the world has been unified and stable. All prisoners except those sentenced to death will be pardoned.
At this time, the princes reported to the King of Han: King Han Xin of Chu, King Xin of Han, King Yingbu of Huainan, King Pengyue of Liang, Wu Rui, the former King of Hengshan, King Zhang Ao of Zhao, and King Zang Tu of Yan wrote in fear of risking their lives, Your Majesty: In the past, the Qin Dynasty was unjust, and gods and men worked together to punish it.
The king first captured Prince Ying of Qin and pacified Guanzhong, and his contribution was overwhelming to the world.
Determination of life and death, continuous rescue of defeat, in order to stabilize the people, the merits are high and virtuous.
At the same time, he also extended favors to various meritorious princes and divided them into feudal states.
Now that the fiefdoms and titles of the princes and princes have been determined, and they share the title of king with the king, there is no distinction between them. In this way, the king's outstanding achievements and virtues cannot be announced to future generations.
Therefore, I risked my life and asked for the title of emperor.
The King of Han thanked him and said: "I often hear that the emperor's title belongs to the sages. A title that is not worthy of the name should not be obtained."
Today, all the princes and kings have elected me to be the emperor. How can I accept it?
All the princes and kings reported: The great king has risen among the people, wiped out the Qin Dynasty, and shocked the whole country.
Later, he used the remote areas of Bashu as a base to promote mighty virtue from Hanzhong, punish injustice, establish meritorious services, and pacify the sea. The meritorious officials were all given fiefs and food towns, and all were rewarded according to their merits.
The king's kindness is spread all over the world, and no other princes can compare with it. Respecting him as emperor is worthy of his name. May the king satisfy the wishes of the people in the world.
The King of Han said: If you princes say that it is beneficial for the people of the world for me to become emperor, then I will agree with it.
So all the princes and princes, the Marquis of Chang'an, Lu Wan, and three hundred other people, together with Dr. Ji Sijun, Shusun Tong, chose an auspicious day, the third day of the second lunar month, to give the emperor's title. The King of Han, the emperor, was located in Jiyin, north of the Sishui River.
Queen Lu was respected as the queen, the prince as the crown prince, and his deceased mother was posthumously named Mrs. Zhaoling.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty issued an edict saying: Wu Rui, the former king of Hengshan, his two sons and one nephew raised troops from the Baiyue area to support the princes, destroy the violent Qin Dynasty, and achieve great achievements. The princes made him king.
Later, Xiang Yu invaded his land and demoted him to Fanjun.
Now Changsha, Yuzhang, Xianglin, Guijun, Nanhai and other places are his fiefdoms, and Fanjun Wu Rui is made the king of Changsha.
The edict also said: The former king of Guangdong had inherited the sacrifices of Guangdong, but the Qin Dynasty took away his land, leaving no one to worship the ancestors of Guangdong.
The princes attacked Qin and killed all their relatives. They led the soldiers of Fujian to help destroy Qin's righteous move. Xiang Yu was deposed and did not stand.
Now I regard the deceased as the king of Fujian and Guangdong, and central Fujian will be placed under his jurisdiction without losing his old position.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was the western capital of Luoyang.

summary:
summary line 1: In the sixth year, the king honored his brother as Marquis of Wu Ai, appointed Han Xin as King of Chu, and made Peng Yue King of Liang. A general amnesty was declared except for capital crimes. The princes petitioned the king to accept the title of Emperor, which he initially declined but eventually accepted on an auspicious day in the second month. Queen Lu was honored as empress, the prince as crown prince. Wu Rui was made King of Changsha, and the former King of Guangdong was restored. The capital was established at Luoyang. Soldiers were demobilized, with exemptions from taxes for those in Guanzhong and those returning home. Former slaves were freed, and military officials were granted titles and lands according to merit.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
诏曰： 天下既安，豪桀有功者封侯，新立，未能尽图其功。
身居军九年，或未习法令，或以其故犯法，大者死刑，吾甚怜之。
其赦天下。
田肯贺上曰： 甚善，陛下得韩信，又治秦中。
秦，形胜之国也，带河阻山，县隔千里，持戟百万，秦得百二焉。
地势便利，其以下兵于诸侯，譬犹居高屋之上建瓴水也。
夫齐，东有琅邪、即墨之饶，南有泰山之固，西有浊河之限，北有勃海之利，地方二千里，持戟百万，县隔千里之外，齐得十二焉，此东西秦也。
非亲子弟，莫可使王齐者。
上曰： 善。 赐金五百斤。
上还至雒阳，赦韩信，封为淮阴侯。
甲申，始剖符封功臣曹参等为通侯。
诏曰： 齐，古之建国也，今为郡县，其复以为诸侯。
将军刘贾数有大功，及择宽惠修絜者，王齐、荆地。
春正月丙午，韩王信等奏请以故东阳郡、鄣郡、吴郡五十三县立刘贾为荆王；以砀郡、薛郡、郯郡三十六县立弟文信君交为楚王。壬子，以云中、雁门、代郡五十三县立兄宜信侯喜为代王；以胶东、胶西、临淄、济北、博阳、城阳郡七十三县立子肥为齐王；以太原郡三十一县为韩国，徙韩王信都晋阳。
上已封大功臣二十余人，其余争功，未得行封。
上居南宫，从复道上见诸将往往耦语，以问张良。良曰： 陛下与此属共取天下，今已为天子，而所封皆故人所爱，所诛皆平生仇怨。
今军吏计功，以天下为不足用遍封，而恐以过失及诛，故相聚谋反耳。
上曰： 为之奈何？
translation: 
The edict was issued saying: The world has been stabilized. Heroes with meritorious services have been granted the title of marquis and newly ascended to the throne of the emperor. However, not all of them have been rewarded according to their merits.
Because I have been in the military for nine years, some of them have no time to learn the laws, and some of them accidentally violate the national laws, and in serious cases they are sentenced to death. I deeply sympathize with them.
Now I plan to grant amnesty to the whole world.
Tian Ken expressed his congratulations and said: What the emperor saw is extremely true. Your Majesty took Han Xin into custody and established his capital in Guanzhong.
Qin is a place with a favorable situation, with the Yellow River as its belt, Guanshan Mountain as its danger, and thousands of miles away from the eastern princes. Qin's 20,000 people can resist millions of foreign troops.
Qin's situation is convenient. When it wants to send its troops out to conquer the enemy, it has a strong position to build a stronghold.
As for the land of Qi, there are the riches of Langyi and Jimo in the east, the dangers of Mount Tai in the south, the Yellow River in the west as a natural moat, and the Bohai Sea in the north for easy defense.
This is equivalent to the Eastern and Western Qin Dynasties. If he is not a close relative, he cannot be sent to be the king of Qi. Emperor Gaozu said: This statement is extremely appropriate.
Give five hundred catties of gold.
Emperor Gaozu returned to Luoyang, pardoned Han Xin, and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Huaiyin.
On December 28, the talismans began to be cut and the heroes Cao Shen and others were made Tonghou.
The edict said: Qi is the place where the country has been founded since ancient times. Now it has been changed to a county. It should be restored to a feudal state to enfeoff the princes and kings.
General Liu Jia has made great achievements many times, so he can be elected as the king of Qi, Jing and other places with both merit and virtue.
On the 21st of the first lunar month in the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, King Xin of Han and others petitioned to make Liu Jia the king of Jing from the fifty-three counties of Dongyang, Zhang, and Wu, and to make Liu Jiao, the emperor's younger brother, Marquis Wenxin, the king of Chu from the thirty-six counties of Dang, Xue, and Tan. On the 27th, Yun Fifty-three counties in Zhong, Yanmen, and Dai counties made the emperor's brother Yixinhou Liu Xi the king of the country. Seventy-three counties in Jiaodong, Jiaoxi, Linzi, Jibei, Boyang, and Chengyang counties made Prince Fei the king of Qi. Thirty-one counties in Taiyuan County were designated as Korea, and King Han's capital was moved to Jinyang.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already awarded more than 20 meritorious officials, and the rest were competing for merit, which prevented the awarding work from proceeding normally.
The emperor lived in the South Palace. He saw the generals whispering in twos and threes on the road, and asked Zhang Liang why. Zhang Liang said: Your Majesty and they share the world. Now the emperor is the emperor, and those who are rewarded are the old friends and relatives, and those who are killed are all the enemies of the past.
Today, the military officials are counting merits and believe that the land in the world is small and the meritorious officials are many, so they cannot be enfeoffed everywhere. The generals are afraid that the emperor will catch them for their mistakes and be executed, so they collude with each other and prepare to rebel.
Gaozu said worriedly: What should I do?

summary:
summary line 2: In subsequent years, the emperor dealt with various rebellions. Zang Tu of Yan rebelled and was captured. Han Xin of Chu was arrested on suspicion of rebellion and demoted to Marquis of Huaiyin. The emperor established various princes, including Liu Jia as King of Jing and Liu Fei as King of Qi. When generals grew restless over delayed rewards, Zhang Liang advised rewarding the emperor's former enemy Yong Chi first, which calmed everyone. The emperor honored his father as Supreme Emperor.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
良曰： 取上素所不快，计群臣所共知最甚者一人，先封以示群臣。
三月，上置酒，封雍齿，因趣丞相急定功行封。
罢酒，群臣皆喜，曰： 雍齿且侯，吾属亡患矣！
上归栎阳，五日一朝太公。
太公家令说太公曰： 天亡二日，土亡二王。
皇帝虽子，人主也；太公虽父，人臣也。
奈何令人主拜人臣！
如此，则威重不行。
后上朝，太公拥彗，迎门却行。
上大惊，下扶太公。
太公曰： 帝，人主，奈何以我乱天下法！
于是上心善家令言，赐黄金五百斤。
夏五月丙午，诏曰： 人之至亲，莫亲于父子，故父有天下传归于子，子有天下尊归于父，此人道之极也。
前日天下大乱，兵革并起，万民苦殃，朕亲被坚执锐，自帅士卒，犯危难，平暴乱，立诸侯，偃兵息民，天下大安，此皆太公之教训也。
诸王、通侯、将军、群卿、大夫已尊朕为皇帝，而太公未有号，今上尊太公曰太上皇。
秋九月，匈奴围韩王信于马邑，信降匈奴。
七年冬十月，上自将击韩王信于铜鞮，斩其将。
信亡走匈奴，其将曼丘臣、王黄共立故赵后赵利为王，收信散兵，与匈奴共距汉。
上从晋阳连战，乘胜逐北，至楼烦，会大寒，士卒堕指者什二三。
遂至平城，为匈奴所围，七日，用陈平秘计得出。
使樊哙留定代地。
十二月，上还过赵，不礼赵王。
是月，匈奴攻代，代王喜弃国，自归雒阳，赦为合阳侯。
辛卯，立子如意为代王。
春，令郎中有罪耐以上，请之。
translation: 
Zhang Liang said: Find a person that the emperor hates the most, and everyone knows that the emperor hates the person the most. Give him a reward first to calm everyone's mind.
In March, the emperor held a banquet to reward his former enemy Yong Chi, and urged the prime minister to quickly determine his merits and award him.
After the banquet, all the ministers were very happy. They said: Yong Chi can still be granted the title of marquis, so what do we have to worry about?
The emperor returned to Yueyang and met with the Grand Duke once every five days.
The Taigong's retainers said to the Taigong: There are no two suns in the sky, and there are no two kings on the earth.
Although the emperor is your son, he is the emperor; although you are the emperor's father, you are a human minister.
How can you ask a master to worship a minister?
If this continues, it will be difficult to establish the emperor's authority.
Later, when Emperor Gaozu came to court, the Grand Duke would personally clean the steps as a sign of respect and retreat in front of the door.
The emperor was shocked and got out of the chariot to help the prince.
Taigong said: Emperor, Lord of all peoples, don’t mess with the laws of kings and ministers because of me!
So the emperor thought that the Taigong's retainer was good at handling the relationship between father, son, monarch and ministers, so he rewarded him with five hundred catties of gold.
On the 23rd day of the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: The closest relatives in the world should not be close to the father and son. Therefore, if the father has the world, it will be passed down to the son, and if the son has the world, his honor will be attributed to the father. This is a universal principle of human ethics.
In the past, the world was in chaos, wars broke out, and all the people suffered. I personally wore armor, held weapons, led the soldiers, charged into battle, quelled the riots, established the princes, suppressed the troops, and brought peace to the world. This is all due to Taigong's teachings.
All the kings, princes, generals, county ministers, and officials have already respected me as emperor, but the Grand Duke has not yet had a title. Today I honor the Grand Duke as the Supreme Emperor.
In the ninth month of autumn, the Huns besieged King Xin of Han in Mayi, and Xin surrendered to the Huns.
In the winter and tenth month of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the emperor personally led troops to Tong? The county attacked Han Wangxin who surrendered to the Xiongnu and killed his general.
Xin fled to the Xiongnu. Manqiuchen and Wang Huang, the generals of King Xin of Han, jointly declared Zhao Li, the late Zhao queen, as king. They gathered the scattered soldiers of King Xin of Han and joined forces with the Xiongnu to fight against the Han soldiers.
The emperor fought continuously from Jinyang and pursued the victory to reach Loufan. During the severe cold, 20-30% of the soldiers suffered frozen fingers.
They had to retreat to Pingcheng and were besieged by the Huns. Seven days later, Chen Ping's beauty trick was used to break through.
Fan Kuai was sent to stay behind to stabilize the land.
In December, the emperor passed by Zhao when he returned to the court, but he did not give any courtesy to King Zhao.
In the same month, the Xiongnu attacked Dai. King Dai abandoned the city and fled, returned to Luoyang, pardoned his sins, and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Lingyang.
On the 21st, the emperor appointed his son Ruyi as acting king.
In the spring of the eighth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he issued an order to any prince who committed a crime punishable by more than a haircut on his cheeks to ask his superiors for review.

summary:
summary line 3: The Xiongnu besieged King Xin of Han, who surrendered. The emperor personally led campaigns against the Xiongnu and rebels, suffering defeats and victories. He established his son Ruyi as acting king of Dai. Xiao He constructed magnificent palaces, which initially angered the emperor but was justified as demonstrating imperial authority. The capital moved to Chang'an. Zhao officials plotted assassination but were exposed. The emperor dealt with Chen Xi's rebellion, personally leading forces to Handan and bribing enemy generals to surrender.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
吕后问曰： 陛下百岁后，萧相国既死，谁令代之？
上曰： 曹参可。
问其次，曰： 王陵可，然少戆，陈平可以助之。
陈平知有余，然难独任。
周勃重厚少文，然安刘氏者必勃也，可令为太尉。
吕后复问其次，上曰： 此后亦非乃所知也。
卢绾与数千人居塞下候伺，幸上疾愈，自入谢。
夏四月甲辰，帝崩于长乐宫。卢绾闻之，遂亡入匈奴。
吕后与审食其谋曰： 诸将故与帝为编户民，北面为臣，心常鞅鞅，今乃事少主，非尽族是，天下不安。
以故不发丧。
人或闻，以语郦商。
郦商见审食其曰： 闻帝已崩四日，不发丧，欲诛诸将。
诚如此，天下危矣。
陈平、灌婴将十万守荥阳，樊哙、周勃将二十万定燕、代，此闻帝崩，诸将皆诛，必连兵还乡，以攻关中。
大臣内畔，诸将外反，亡可跷足待也。
审食其入言之，乃以丁未发丧，大赦天下。
五月丙寅，葬长陵。
已下，皇太子、群臣皆反至太上皇庙。
群臣曰： 帝起细微，拨乱世反之正，平定天下，为汉太祖，功最高。
上尊号曰高皇帝。
初，高祖不修文学，而性明达，好谋，能听，自监门戍卒，见之如旧。
初顺民心作三章之约。天下既定，命萧何次律令，韩信申军法，张苍定章程，叔孙通制礼仪，陆贾造《新语》。
又与功臣剖符作誓，丹书铁契，金匮石室，藏之宗庙。
虽日不暇给，规摹弘远矣。
translation: 
Queen Lu asked: Your Majesty, a hundred years later, Prime Minister Xiao He will also pass away. Who can replace him as prime minister?
The emperor said: Cao Shen can do it.
Empress Lu asked who would succeed Cao Shen, and the emperor said: "Wang Ling can, but he has a somewhat upright character. Chen Ping can help him."
Chen Ping was resourceful, but it was difficult for him to serve as prime minister alone.
Zhou Bo was old and prudent but not good at diction, but it was Zhou Bo who stabilized Liu Han and allowed him to serve as Taiwei.
Empress Lu asked who would succeed him in the future, and the emperor said: "I can't say clearly in the future."
Lu Wan and thousands of others waited at the border fortress, hoping that the emperor would recover and go to court to apologize and defend himself against false accusations.
On April 25th in the summer, Emperor Gao died in Changle Palace. After hearing the news, Lu Wan fled to the Huns.
Empress Lu said to Shen Shiqi: Many generals and emperors were registered as civilians in the past. Later, they became ministers in the north, but they were always dissatisfied. Now they want to fight for the young master again. If they are not killed, the world will be uneasy.
Therefore, obituary notices of the emperor's death were not published.
Someone heard about the emperor's death and told Li Shang.
When Li Shang saw the emperor, he said: "I heard that the emperor had passed away, but he still did not mourn for four days, so he wanted to kill the princes."
If this is the case, the world will be in danger.
Chen Ping and Guan Ying led 100,000 troops to guard Xingyang, while Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo led 200,000 troops to suppress Yan and Dai. If they heard that the emperor had died and wanted to kill the generals, they would join forces and march to Kyoto to seize Guanzhong.
If the ministers rebel internally and the generals rebel externally, defeat will be inevitable.
Shen Shi conveyed this statement to Empress Lu, who announced a general amnesty on April 28th.
On May 17, the emperor was buried in Changling.
After the coffin was lowered, the Crown Prince and his ministers all returned to the Supreme Emperor's Temple.
The emperor and his ministers said: The emperor rose from the common people, turned the tide and returned to the right path, pacified the world, and became the founding ancestor of the Han Dynasty, with the highest credit.
His title is Emperor Gao.
Originally, Emperor Gaozu did not pay much attention to book knowledge, but he was cheerful and intelligent by nature, good at thinking, and able to gather opinions from everyone. He could get along easily with everyone from the people and officials to ordinary soldiers.
At the beginning of entering the Pass, he made three chapters in compliance with the people's wishes. After the world was peaceful, he ordered Xiao He to organize the laws and regulations, ordered Han Xin to establish and improve military disciplines, ordered Zhang Cang to unify the calendar, weights and measures, etc., ordered Shusun Tong to formulate various etiquette and rituals, and ordered Lu Jia to write a "Xinyu" summarizing the rise and fall of history.
He also cut the talisman and swore an oath with each of the meritorious officials, wrote an iron deed in elixir, stored it in a gold cabinet and stone chamber, and kept it in the ancestral temple.
Although Emperor Gaozu was busy with everything, the plans and measures he made were far-reaching.

summary:
summary line 4: In the twelfth year, Han Xin was executed for rebellion in Chang'an. Peng Yue rebelled and was executed. Yingbu of Huainan rebelled; the emperor personally led forces against him, defeating him at Huifou. Returning through his hometown of Pei County, the emperor held a grand banquet, sang about returning home in glory, and exempted Pei from taxes. He was wounded by an arrow during the Yingbu campaign and grew ill. When Empress Lu asked about successors, he named Cao Shen, then Wang Ling with Chen Ping's assistance, and Zhou Bo as Taiwei. Emperor Gao died in Changle Palace in the fourth month. Empress Lu initially concealed his death to plot against the generals but was persuaded otherwise. He was buried at Changling and posthumously titled Emperor Gao.

