Chunk 0: 
original: 
五年冬十月，汉王追项羽至阳夏南，止军，与齐王信、魏相国越期会击楚。至固陵，不会。
楚击汉军，大破之，汉王复入壁，深堑而守。
谓张良曰： 诸侯不从，奈何？
良对曰： 楚兵且破，未有分地，其不至固宜。
君王能与共天下，可立致也。
齐王信之立，非君王意，信亦不自坚。
彭越本定梁地，始，君王以魏豹故，拜越为相国。
今豹死，越亦望王，而君王不早定。
今能取睢阳以北至谷城皆以王彭越，从陈以东傅海与齐王信，信家在楚，其意欲复得故邑。
能出捐此地以许两人，使各自为战，则楚易散也 。
于是汉王发使使韩信、彭越。
至，皆引兵来。
十一月，刘贾入楚地，围寿春。
汉亦遣人诱楚大司马周殷。
殷畔楚，以舒屠六，举九江兵迎黥布，并行屠城父，随刘贾皆会。
十二月，围羽垓下。
羽夜闻汉军四面皆楚歌，知尽得楚地。羽与数百骑走，是以兵大败。
灌婴追斩羽东城。
楚地悉定，独鲁不下。
汉王引天下兵欲屠之，为其守节礼义之国，乃持羽头示其父兄，鲁乃降。
初，怀王封羽为鲁公，及死，鲁又为之坚守，故以鲁公葬羽于谷城。
汉王为发丧，哭临而去。
封项伯等四人为列侯，赐姓刘氏。
诸民略在楚者皆归之。
汉王还至定陶，驰入齐王信壁，夺其军。
初项羽所立临江王共敖前死，子尉嗣立为王，不降。
遣卢绾、刘贾击虏尉。
春正月，追尊兄伯号曰武哀侯。
下令曰： 楚地已定，义帝亡后，欲存恤楚众，以定其主。
齐王信习楚风俗，更立为楚王，王淮北，都下邳。
魏相国建城侯彭越勤劳魏民，卑下士卒，常以少击众，数破楚军，其以魏故地王之，号曰梁王，都定陶。
translation: 
In the winter of tenth month of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu, the King of Han pursued Xiang Yu to the south of Yangxia, stopped advancing, and made an appointment with Qi King Han Xin and Wei Xiangguo Peng Yue to attack the Chu army. The Han King's troops reached Guling, but Han, Peng and others failed to meet up as scheduled.
Xiang Yu led the troops to attack the army of the King of Han and defeated the Han soldiers. The king of Han withdrew his troops and returned to the original fortress, digging a deep ditch to defend himself.
The King of Han worriedly said to Zhang Liang: "What should we do if the princes do not want to obey us?"
Zhang Liang replied: Even if the Chu army is defeated, Han Xin and Peng Yue will not gain the benefit of increasing their territory. It is reasonable for them not to join forces.
If the king can share the fruits of victory with them, they will come to join forces immediately.
The appointment of Han Xin as King of Qi was not out of the King's original intention. Han Xin still lacked confidence in the King.
Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region, but later the king made Peng Yue the Prime Minister of Wei because King Bao of Wei came and surrendered.
Now that King Bao of Wei is dead, Peng Yue also wants to claim the throne himself, but the king has yet to make a decision.
If the area north of Suiyang to Gucheng could be allocated to Peng Yue and he could be crowned king, and the area east of Chen to the Bohai Sea could be allocated to King Han Xin of Qi, whose family was in Chu, he originally wanted to regain his homeland.
The king abandoned these two lands to allow Han and Peng to fight on their own, and Chu Xiang would be easily defeated.
So the King of Han sent envoys to inform Han Xin and Peng Yue of the above intentions.
As soon as the notice arrived, Han Pengdu led his troops to join forces.
In November, Liu Jia invaded Chu and besieged Shouchun.
The king of Han also sent people to lure Zhou Yin, the great commander of Chu, to surrender.
Zhou Yin rebelled against Chu and violently attacked six counties with troops from Shu County. He led troops from Jiujiang to cooperate with Yingbu and attacked Chengfu County. Yingbu and Liu Jia both joined forces with the King of Han.
In the winter of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, in December, Han soldiers surrounded Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
Xiang Yu heard Chu troops on all sides at night and knew that the Han soldiers had completely controlled the positions around the Chu troops, so he led hundreds of cavalry to abandon the camp and break out. The Chu troops were defeated because they had no master.
Guan Ying pursued Xiang Yu in Dongcheng.
The land of Chu was completely pacified, but the land of Lu did not surrender.
The King of Han led his army to massacre the city, but was moved by the local soldiers' actions to uphold Xiang Yu's integrity, so he stopped the attack and displayed Xiang Yu's head to inform Lu's father and brother, who surrendered.
Originally, King Huai made Xiang Yu the Duke of Lu. After Xiang Yu's death, the land of Lu defended him, so Xiang Yu was buried in Gucheng, Jibei with the ceremony of Duke Lu.
The King of Han mourned for Xiang Yu and went to mourn for him.
The king of Han made Xiang Bo and four other marquises and gave them the surname Liu.
People from other places who were plundered and brought to Chu were all sent back to their place of origin.
The King of Han returned to Dingtao, entered Han Xin's camp with lightning speed, and deprived Han Xin of his military power.
Gong Ao, the king of Linjiang who was originally established by Xiang Yu, died, and his son Wei succeeded him as king and refused to surrender.
The king of Han sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to conquer Linjiang Wangwei.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han honored his brother Liu Bo as the Marquis of Wu Ai.
The order was given: The Chu region has been pacified, and the Righteous Emperor has no descendants. In order to appease the people of the Chu region, he decided to appoint another master of the Chu region.
King Han Xin of Qi understood the customs and customs of the Chu land, and now he was appointed King of Chu. He governed the Huaibei region, with his capital at Xiapi.
Peng Yue, the Marquis of Wei Xiangguo who founded the city, cared about the people of Wei and loved the soldiers. He often defeated the Chu army with a small number and defeated the Chu army several times. He gave the old land of Wei as his fiefdom and named it King of Liang. He was all in Dingtao.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
又曰： 兵不得休八年，万民与苦甚，今天下事毕，其赦天下殊死以下。
于是诸侯上疏曰： 楚王韩信、韩王信、淮南王英布、梁王彭越、故衡山王吴芮、赵王张敖、燕王臧荼昧死再拜言大王陛下：先时，秦为亡道，天下诛之。
大王先得秦王，定关中，于天下功最多。
存亡定危，救败继绝，以安万民，功盛德厚。
又加惠于诸侯王有功者，使得立社稷。
地分已定，而位号比拟，亡上下之分，大王功德之著，于后世不宣。
昧死再拜上皇帝尊号。
汉王曰： 寡人闻帝者贤者有也，虚言亡实之名，非所取也。
今诸侯王皆推高寡人，将何以处之哉？
诸侯王皆曰： 大王起于细微，灭乱秦，威动海内。
又以辟陋之地，自汉中行威德，诛不义，立有功，平定海内，功臣皆受地食邑，非私之地。
大王德施四海，诸侯王不足以道之，居帝位甚实宜，愿大王以幸天下。
汉王曰： 诸侯王幸以为便于天下之民，则可矣。
于是诸侯王及太尉长安侯臣绾等三百人，与博士稷嗣君叔孙通谨择良日二月甲午，上尊号。汉王即皇帝位于汜水之阳。
尊王后曰皇后，太子曰皇太子，追尊先媪曰昭灵夫人。
诏曰： 故衡山王吴芮与子二人、兄子一人，从百粤之兵，以佐诸侯，诛暴秦，有大功，诸侯立以为王。
项羽侵夺之地，谓之番君。
其以长沙、豫章、象郡、桂林、南海立番君芮为长沙王。
又曰： 故粤王亡诸世奉粤祀，秦侵夺其地，使其社稷不得血食。
诸侯伐秦，亡诸身帅闽中兵以佐灭秦，项羽废而弗立。
今以为闽粤王，王闽中地，勿使失职。
帝乃西都洛阳。
translation: 
He also said in the order: The war has lasted for eight years, causing serious disasters to the people. Today, the world has been unified and stable. All prisoners except those sentenced to death will be pardoned.
At this time, the princes reported to the King of Han: King Han Xin of Chu, King Xin of Han, King Yingbu of Huainan, King Pengyue of Liang, Wu Rui, the former King of Hengshan, King Zhang Ao of Zhao, and King Zang Tu of Yan wrote in fear of risking their lives, Your Majesty: In the past, the Qin Dynasty was unjust, and gods and men worked together to punish it.
The king first captured Prince Ying of Qin and pacified Guanzhong, and his contribution was overwhelming to the world.
Determination of life and death, continuous rescue of defeat, in order to stabilize the people, the merits are high and virtuous.
At the same time, he also extended favors to various meritorious princes and divided them into feudal states.
Now that the fiefdoms and titles of the princes and princes have been determined, and they share the title of king with the king, there is no distinction between them. In this way, the king's outstanding achievements and virtues cannot be announced to future generations.
Therefore, I risked my life and asked for the title of emperor.
The King of Han thanked him and said: "I often hear that the emperor's title belongs to the sages. A title that is not worthy of the name should not be obtained."
Today, all the princes and kings have elected me to be the emperor. How can I accept it?
All the princes and kings reported: The great king has risen among the people, wiped out the Qin Dynasty, and shocked the whole country.
Later, he used the remote areas of Bashu as a base to promote mighty virtue from Hanzhong, punish injustice, establish meritorious services, and pacify the sea. The meritorious officials were all given fiefs and food towns, and all were rewarded according to their merits.
The king's kindness is spread all over the world, and no other princes can compare with it. Respecting him as emperor is worthy of his name. May the king satisfy the wishes of the people in the world.
The King of Han said: If you princes say that it is beneficial for the people of the world for me to become emperor, then I will agree with it.
So all the princes and princes, the Marquis of Chang'an, Lu Wan, and three hundred other people, together with Dr. Ji Sijun, Shusun Tong, chose an auspicious day, the third day of the second lunar month, to give the emperor's title. The King of Han, the emperor, was located in Jiyin, north of the Sishui River.
Queen Lu was respected as the queen, the prince as the crown prince, and his deceased mother was posthumously named Mrs. Zhaoling.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty issued an edict saying: Wu Rui, the former king of Hengshan, his two sons and one nephew raised troops from the Baiyue area to support the princes, destroy the violent Qin Dynasty, and achieve great achievements. The princes made him king.
Later, Xiang Yu invaded his land and demoted him to Fanjun.
Now Changsha, Yuzhang, Xianglin, Guijun, Nanhai and other places are his fiefdoms, and Fanjun Wu Rui is made the king of Changsha.
The edict also said: The former king of Guangdong had inherited the sacrifices of Guangdong, but the Qin Dynasty took away his land, leaving no one to worship the ancestors of Guangdong.
The princes attacked Qin and killed all their relatives. They led the soldiers of Fujian to help destroy Qin's righteous move. Xiang Yu was deposed and did not stand.
Now I regard the deceased as the king of Fujian and Guangdong, and central Fujian will be placed under his jurisdiction without losing his old position.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was the western capital of Luoyang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
夏五月，兵皆罢归家。
诏曰： 诸侯子在关中者，复之十二岁，其归者半之。
民前或相聚保山泽，不书名数，今天下已定，令各归其县，复故爵田宅，吏以文法教训辨告，勿笞辱。
民以饥饿自卖为人奴婢者，皆免为庶人。
军吏卒会赦，甚亡罪而亡爵及不满大夫者，皆赐爵为大夫。故大夫以上，赐爵各一级。
其七大夫以上，皆令食邑；非七大夫以下，皆复其身及户，勿事。
又曰： 七大夫、公乘以上，皆高爵也。
诸侯子及从军归者，甚多高爵，吾数诏吏先与田宅，及所当求于吏者，亟与。
爵或人君，上所尊礼，久立吏前，曾不为决，其亡谓也。
异日秦民爵公大夫以上，令丞与亢礼。
今吾于爵非轻也，吏独安取此！
且法以有功劳行田宅，今小吏未尝从军者多满，而有功者顾不得，背公立私，守尉长吏教训甚不善。
其令诸吏善遇高爵，称吾意。
且廉问，有不如吾诏者，以重论之。
帝置酒雒阳南宫。
上曰： 通侯诸将毋敢隐朕，皆言其情。
吾所以有天下者何？
项氏之所以先天下者何？ 高起、王陵对曰： 陛下嫚而侮人，项羽仁而敬人。
然陛下使人攻城略地，所降下者，因以与之，与天下同利也。
项羽妒贤嫉能，有功者害之，贤者疑之，战胜而不与人功，得地而不与人利，此其所以失天下也。
上曰： 公知其一，未知其二。
translation: 
In the fifth month of summer, all the soldiers were demobilized and returned home.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The sons of princes in Guanzhong will be exempted from taxes and servitude for twelve years, and those who have returned to their native places will be exempted from taxes and servitude for six years.
In the past, some people gathered in the mountains and rivers to avoid the Qin Dynasty and were not included in the household registration. Now that the world has been settled, everyone can return to his hometown and restore his original rank, land and housing. Officials in various places must explain the principles according to the laws and must not be forced to insult.
Those among the common people who sold themselves as slaves or maidservants to others due to hunger were exempted from their status as slaves and maidservants and became commoners.
All military officials and soldiers of the former Qin were exempted from crime. Among them, those who had not committed any crime of aiding Qin but had no title or whose original title was dissatisfied with the officials were given titles as officials, and those who had the original title of officials were increased by one level.
Among them, those with seven or more senior officials were given food towns to collect taxes. Those whose title is below the seventh official are exempted from taxes for themselves and their families, and are not subject to corvee service.
The edict also said: The seven officials and public officials are all of high rank.
There are many nobles and nobles who are the sons of princes and those who have retired from the army. I have repeatedly instructed the officials in charge to allocate their land and houses to them first. Their legitimate demands on the officials in charge must be resolved quickly.
Those with noble titles and owners with food and property are respected by the emperor. It is abnormal for some people to ask the officials to solve the problem many times but still not get it handled properly.
In the past, people in the Qin Dynasty whose rank was above the seventh official were on an equal footing with county magistrates.
Now I don't take knighthood lightly. How can some officials be so disrespectful to knighthood!
What's more, it is expressly stipulated that land and houses should be paid according to merit. Today, some petty officials have no military merit but first satisfy themselves, while those with merit cannot get it, violating public laws and seeking personal gain. This is caused by poor education and management by county guards, county lieutenants, and county magistrates.
I want to instruct the officials to respect people with high titles and not to disappoint my high expectations.
Inspections should also be carried out, and those who do not act in accordance with my will must be severely punished.
Emperor Gaozu held a banquet in Nangong, Luoyang.
He gave a toast and said: Tonghou and generals, there is no need to hide anything from me, please speak freely.
Why can I win the world? Why did Xiang Yu lose the world?
Gao Qi and Wang Ling replied: Your Majesty does not seem to respect others very much, but Xiang Yu seems to care about and respect others.
However, His Majesty sent people to attack the city and capture the territory, and the results obtained were given to those who had merit. This is a sign of sharing the joys and sorrows with everyone.
However, Xiang Yu was jealous of talents, attacked those who had merit, was unwilling to reuse talented people, thought he had the merit of winning battles and robbing others, and was unwilling to reward the meritorious officials after winning the land. This was the crux of his failure because of betrayal and alienation.
Emperor Gaozu said: I only know one of them, but I don’t know the other.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫运筹帷幄之中，决胜千里之外，吾不如子房；填国家，抚百姓，给饷馈，不绝粮道，吾不如萧何；连百万之众，战必胜，攻必取，吾不如韩信。
三者皆人杰，吾能用之，此吾所以取天下者也。
项羽有一范增而不能用，此所以为我禽也。
群臣说服。
初，田横归彭越。
项羽已灭，横惧诛，与宾客亡入海。
上恐其久为乱，遣使者赦横，曰： 横来，大者王，小者侯；不来，且发兵加诛。
横惧，乘传诣雒阳，未至三十里，自杀。
上壮其节，为流涕，发卒二千人，以上礼葬焉。
戍卒娄敬求见，说上曰： 陛下取天下与周异，而都雒阳，不便，不如入关，据秦之固。
上以问张良，良因劝上。
是日，车驾西都长安。
拜娄敬为奉春君，赐姓刘氏。
六月壬辰，大赦天下。
秋七月，燕王臧荼反，上自将征之。
九月，虏荼。
诏诸侯王视有功者立以为燕王。
荆王臣信等十人皆曰： 太尉长安侯卢绾功最多，请立以为燕王。
使丞相哙将兵平代地。
利几反，上自击破之。
利几者，项羽将。羽败，利几为陈令，降，上侯之颍川。
上至雒阳，举通侯籍召之，而利几恐，反。
后九月，徙诸侯子关中。
治长乐宫。
六年冬十月，令天下县邑城。
人告楚王信谋反，上问左右，左右争欲击之。
用陈平计，乃伪游云梦。
十二月，会诸侯于陈，楚王信迎谒，因执之。
translation: 
As for strategizing and winning a battle thousands of miles away, I am not as good as Zhang Liang; for guarding the country, pacifying the people, providing food and wages, and ensuring smooth food routes, I am not as good as Xiao He; for commanding millions of people, defeating all battles, and attacking everything, I am not as good as Han Xin.
These three are all outstanding figures. And I can give full play to their role, which is why I can conquer the world.
Xiang Yu originally had a talented man, Fan Zeng, but he could not reuse him, so he was defeated by me.
All the ministers were sincerely convinced.
At first, Tian Heng defected to Peng Yue.
After Xiang Yu was defeated, Tian Heng led his subordinates to flee to the island for fear of being punished.
Emperor Gaozu was afraid of causing trouble in the future, so he sent an envoy to announce the order to pardon Tian Heng. The pardon order said: When Tian Heng returns, Tian Heng can be made king and his subordinates can be made marquis; if he refuses to obey the order, a large army will be sent to sweep him away.
Tian Heng was so frightened that he took an express train to Luoyang and committed suicide thirty miles away from Luoyang.
Emperor Gaozu was moved by his integrity and burst into tears. He sent 2,000 soldiers and buried them with royal rites.
Lou Jing, a border guard soldier, asked for an audience. He suggested to Emperor Gaozu: Your Majesty's control of the world is different from that of the Zhou Dynasty, and it is not appropriate to establish the capital in Luoyang. It is better to enter Hangu Pass to take advantage of the natural dangers of Qinchuan.
Gaozu discussed with Zhang Liang, and Zhang Liang persuaded Gaozu to agree to Lou Jing's suggestion.
That day, the emperor drove to Chang'an, the western capital.
Lou Jing was granted the title of Lord Fengshou and his surname was Liu.
On June 8th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In the seventh month of autumn, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled against the Han Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu personally led the expedition.
In September, Zang Tu was captured.
The princes and princes were ordered to nominate meritorious ministers as the new kings of Yan.
Chu King Han Xin and other ten people all said: "The Taiwei Chang'an Marquis Lu Wan has made the most contributions, please make him King of Yan."
Send Prime Minister Kuai to lead troops to pacify Daidi.
Li Ji rebelled, and Gaozu personally led the troops to eliminate him.
Li Ji was originally Xiang Yu's general. When Xiang Yu was defeated, Li Ji was the magistrate of Chen County. After surrendering to the Han Dynasty, the emperor named him Marquis of Yingchuan.
The emperor went to Luoyang and summoned the marquis Youtong, but Li Ji, fearing that he had been a general under Xiang Yu, rebelled.
In the ninth month of the leap month, the princes' sons were selected to go to Guanzhong.
Build Changle Palace.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he ordered all counties and cities in the world to build cities.
Someone reported that Han Xin, the king of Chu, was planning to rebel. The emperor asked for the opinions of the left and right, who all advocated sending troops to conquer.
Emperor Gaozu adopted Chen Ping's plan and pretended to be hunting in Yunmeng.
In December, a meeting of princes and kings was held in Chendi. King Han Xin of Chu went to meet him and took the opportunity to arrest him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
诏曰： 天下既安，豪桀有功者封侯，新立，未能尽图其功。
身居军九年，或未习法令，或以其故犯法，大者死刑，吾甚怜之。
其赦天下。
田肯贺上曰： 甚善，陛下得韩信，又治秦中。
秦，形胜之国也，带河阻山，县隔千里，持戟百万，秦得百二焉。
地势便利，其以下兵于诸侯，譬犹居高屋之上建瓴水也。
夫齐，东有琅邪、即墨之饶，南有泰山之固，西有浊河之限，北有勃海之利，地方二千里，持戟百万，县隔千里之外，齐得十二焉，此东西秦也。
非亲子弟，莫可使王齐者。
上曰： 善。 赐金五百斤。
上还至雒阳，赦韩信，封为淮阴侯。
甲申，始剖符封功臣曹参等为通侯。
诏曰： 齐，古之建国也，今为郡县，其复以为诸侯。
将军刘贾数有大功，及择宽惠修絜者，王齐、荆地。
春正月丙午，韩王信等奏请以故东阳郡、鄣郡、吴郡五十三县立刘贾为荆王；以砀郡、薛郡、郯郡三十六县立弟文信君交为楚王。壬子，以云中、雁门、代郡五十三县立兄宜信侯喜为代王；以胶东、胶西、临淄、济北、博阳、城阳郡七十三县立子肥为齐王；以太原郡三十一县为韩国，徙韩王信都晋阳。
上已封大功臣二十余人，其余争功，未得行封。
上居南宫，从复道上见诸将往往耦语，以问张良。良曰： 陛下与此属共取天下，今已为天子，而所封皆故人所爱，所诛皆平生仇怨。
今军吏计功，以天下为不足用遍封，而恐以过失及诛，故相聚谋反耳。
上曰： 为之奈何？
translation: 
The edict was issued saying: The world has been stabilized. Heroes with meritorious services have been granted the title of marquis and newly ascended to the throne of the emperor. However, not all of them have been rewarded according to their merits.
Because I have been in the military for nine years, some of them have no time to learn the laws, and some of them accidentally violate the national laws, and in serious cases they are sentenced to death. I deeply sympathize with them.
Now I plan to grant amnesty to the whole world.
Tian Ken expressed his congratulations and said: What the emperor saw is extremely true. Your Majesty took Han Xin into custody and established his capital in Guanzhong.
Qin is a place with a favorable situation, with the Yellow River as its belt, Guanshan Mountain as its danger, and thousands of miles away from the eastern princes. Qin's 20,000 people can resist millions of foreign troops.
Qin's situation is convenient. When it wants to send its troops out to conquer the enemy, it has a strong position to build a stronghold.
As for the land of Qi, there are the riches of Langyi and Jimo in the east, the dangers of Mount Tai in the south, the Yellow River in the west as a natural moat, and the Bohai Sea in the north for easy defense.
This is equivalent to the Eastern and Western Qin Dynasties. If he is not a close relative, he cannot be sent to be the king of Qi. Emperor Gaozu said: This statement is extremely appropriate.
Give five hundred catties of gold.
Emperor Gaozu returned to Luoyang, pardoned Han Xin, and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Huaiyin.
On December 28, the talismans began to be cut and the heroes Cao Shen and others were made Tonghou.
The edict said: Qi is the place where the country has been founded since ancient times. Now it has been changed to a county. It should be restored to a feudal state to enfeoff the princes and kings.
General Liu Jia has made great achievements many times, so he can be elected as the king of Qi, Jing and other places with both merit and virtue.
On the 21st of the first lunar month in the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, King Xin of Han and others petitioned to make Liu Jia the king of Jing from the fifty-three counties of Dongyang, Zhang, and Wu, and to make Liu Jiao, the emperor's younger brother, Marquis Wenxin, the king of Chu from the thirty-six counties of Dang, Xue, and Tan. On the 27th, Yun Fifty-three counties in Zhong, Yanmen, and Dai counties made the emperor's brother Yixinhou Liu Xi the king of the country. Seventy-three counties in Jiaodong, Jiaoxi, Linzi, Jibei, Boyang, and Chengyang counties made Prince Fei the king of Qi. Thirty-one counties in Taiyuan County were designated as Korea, and King Han's capital was moved to Jinyang.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already awarded more than 20 meritorious officials, and the rest were competing for merit, which prevented the awarding work from proceeding normally.
The emperor lived in the South Palace. He saw the generals whispering in twos and threes on the road, and asked Zhang Liang why. Zhang Liang said: Your Majesty and they share the world. Now the emperor is the emperor, and those who are rewarded are the old friends and relatives, and those who are killed are all the enemies of the past.
Today, the military officials are counting merits and believe that the land in the world is small and the meritorious officials are many, so they cannot be enfeoffed everywhere. The generals are afraid that the emperor will catch them for their mistakes and be executed, so they collude with each other and prepare to rebel.
Gaozu said worriedly: What should I do?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
良曰： 取上素所不快，计群臣所共知最甚者一人，先封以示群臣。
三月，上置酒，封雍齿，因趣丞相急定功行封。
罢酒，群臣皆喜，曰： 雍齿且侯，吾属亡患矣！
上归栎阳，五日一朝太公。
太公家令说太公曰： 天亡二日，土亡二王。
皇帝虽子，人主也；太公虽父，人臣也。
奈何令人主拜人臣！
如此，则威重不行。
后上朝，太公拥彗，迎门却行。
上大惊，下扶太公。
太公曰： 帝，人主，奈何以我乱天下法！
于是上心善家令言，赐黄金五百斤。
夏五月丙午，诏曰： 人之至亲，莫亲于父子，故父有天下传归于子，子有天下尊归于父，此人道之极也。
前日天下大乱，兵革并起，万民苦殃，朕亲被坚执锐，自帅士卒，犯危难，平暴乱，立诸侯，偃兵息民，天下大安，此皆太公之教训也。
诸王、通侯、将军、群卿、大夫已尊朕为皇帝，而太公未有号，今上尊太公曰太上皇。
秋九月，匈奴围韩王信于马邑，信降匈奴。
七年冬十月，上自将击韩王信于铜鞮，斩其将。
信亡走匈奴，其将曼丘臣、王黄共立故赵后赵利为王，收信散兵，与匈奴共距汉。
上从晋阳连战，乘胜逐北，至楼烦，会大寒，士卒堕指者什二三。
遂至平城，为匈奴所围，七日，用陈平秘计得出。
使樊哙留定代地。
十二月，上还过赵，不礼赵王。
是月，匈奴攻代，代王喜弃国，自归雒阳，赦为合阳侯。
辛卯，立子如意为代王。
春，令郎中有罪耐以上，请之。
translation: 
Zhang Liang said: Find a person that the emperor hates the most, and everyone knows that the emperor hates the person the most. Give him a reward first to calm everyone's mind.
In March, the emperor held a banquet to reward his former enemy Yong Chi, and urged the prime minister to quickly determine his merits and award him.
After the banquet, all the ministers were very happy. They said: Yong Chi can still be granted the title of marquis, so what do we have to worry about?
The emperor returned to Yueyang and met with the Grand Duke once every five days.
The Taigong's retainers said to the Taigong: There are no two suns in the sky, and there are no two kings on the earth.
Although the emperor is your son, he is the emperor; although you are the emperor's father, you are a human minister.
How can you ask a master to worship a minister?
If this continues, it will be difficult to establish the emperor's authority.
Later, when Emperor Gaozu came to court, the Grand Duke would personally clean the steps as a sign of respect and retreat in front of the door.
The emperor was shocked and got out of the chariot to help the prince.
Taigong said: Emperor, Lord of all peoples, don’t mess with the laws of kings and ministers because of me!
So the emperor thought that the Taigong's retainer was good at handling the relationship between father, son, monarch and ministers, so he rewarded him with five hundred catties of gold.
On the 23rd day of the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: The closest relatives in the world should not be close to the father and son. Therefore, if the father has the world, it will be passed down to the son, and if the son has the world, his honor will be attributed to the father. This is a universal principle of human ethics.
In the past, the world was in chaos, wars broke out, and all the people suffered. I personally wore armor, held weapons, led the soldiers, charged into battle, quelled the riots, established the princes, suppressed the troops, and brought peace to the world. This is all due to Taigong's teachings.
All the kings, princes, generals, county ministers, and officials have already respected me as emperor, but the Grand Duke has not yet had a title. Today I honor the Grand Duke as the Supreme Emperor.
In the ninth month of autumn, the Huns besieged King Xin of Han in Mayi, and Xin surrendered to the Huns.
In the winter and tenth month of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the emperor personally led troops to Tong? The county attacked Han Wangxin who surrendered to the Xiongnu and killed his general.
Xin fled to the Xiongnu. Manqiuchen and Wang Huang, the generals of King Xin of Han, jointly declared Zhao Li, the late Zhao queen, as king. They gathered the scattered soldiers of King Xin of Han and joined forces with the Xiongnu to fight against the Han soldiers.
The emperor fought continuously from Jinyang and pursued the victory to reach Loufan. During the severe cold, 20-30% of the soldiers suffered frozen fingers.
They had to retreat to Pingcheng and were besieged by the Huns. Seven days later, Chen Ping's beauty trick was used to break through.
Fan Kuai was sent to stay behind to stabilize the land.
In December, the emperor passed by Zhao when he returned to the court, but he did not give any courtesy to King Zhao.
In the same month, the Xiongnu attacked Dai. King Dai abandoned the city and fled, returned to Luoyang, pardoned his sins, and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Lingyang.
On the 21st, the emperor appointed his son Ruyi as acting king.
In the spring of the eighth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he issued an order to any prince who committed a crime punishable by more than a haircut on his cheeks to ask his superiors for review.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
民产子，复勿事二岁。
二月，至长安。萧何治未央宫，立东阙、北阙、前殿、武库、大仓。
上见其壮丽，甚怒，谓何曰： 天下匈匈，劳苦数岁，成败未可知，是何治宫室过度也！
何曰： 天下方未定，故可因以就宫室。且夫天子以四海为家，非令壮丽亡以重威，且亡令后世有以加也。
上说。
自栎阳徙都长安。
置宗正官以序九族。
夏四月，行如雒阳。
八年冬，上东击韩信余寇于东垣。
还过赵，赵相贯高等耻上不礼其王，阴谋欲弑上。
上欲宿，心动，问 县名何？
曰： 柏人。
上曰： 柏人者，迫于人也。
去弗宿。
十一月，令士卒从军死者，为槥归其县，县给衣衾棺葬具，祠以少牢，长吏视葬。
十二月，行自东垣至。
春三月，行如雒阳。
令吏卒从军至平城及守城邑者皆复终身勿事。
爵非公乘以上毋得冠刘氏冠。
贾人毋得衣锦、绣、绮、縠、絺、纻、罽，操兵，乘骑马。
秋八月，吏有罪未发觉者，赦之。
九月，行自雒阳至。淮南王、梁王、赵王、楚王皆从。
九年冬十月，淮南王、梁王、赵王、楚王朝未央宫。
置酒前殿，上奉玉卮为太上皇寿，曰： 始大人常以臣亡赖，不能治产业，不如仲力。
今某之业所就孰与仲多？
殿上群臣皆称万岁，大笑为乐。
translation: 
If a child is born in a common family, they can be exempted from corvee service for two years.
In February of the eighth year, the emperor went to Chang'an. Xiao He was responsible for the construction of Weiyang Palace, the East Palace, the North Palace, the front hall, the arsenal, and the warehouse.
When the emperor saw how magnificent it was, he was very angry and said to Xiao He: The world is in turmoil, the people have been suffering for a long time, and the success or failure is not yet known. Why build such a magnificent palace!
Xiao He said: It is precisely because the world has not yet been completely settled that we rush to build palaces. The emperor represents the dignity and power of the whole country. If the palace is not magnificent, it cannot show its authority. At the same time, it also shows that future generations do not need to expand anymore.
The emperor was very happy.
Then the capital was moved from Yueyang to Chang'an.
Zong Zhengguan was established to order the nine clans.
In April of summer, he patrolled to Luoyang.
In the winter of the eighth year, the emperor attacked Han Xin's remaining party in Dongyuan.
When the troops returned, they passed through the Zhao territory. Zhao Xiangguan and his superiors were disgraced and resentful of the Emperor Gaozu's disrespect to King Zhao when he visited Zhao last winter, so he plotted to kill the emperor.
The emperor was planning to stay in Zhaodi. His heart was beating fast and he asked: "What is the name of this county?"
The man replied: I am from Mingbai.
The emperor said: Bai people mean to be forced by others.
Get away from this.
In November, an edict was issued: For soldiers who died in the army, their bodies were placed in small coffins and sent back to their place of origin. The county of origin would provide burial clothes and utensils, and sacrifices would be made with sheep and animals. The county magistrate would personally attend the funeral.
In December, the emperor returned to Kyoto from Dongyuan.
In the spring and March of the ninth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he patrolled Luoyang.
An edict was issued: all officials and soldiers who had participated in the defense of Pingcheng and its surrounding cities would be exempted from lifelong corvee service.
Those who do not have a title of nobility or above are not allowed to wear Liu's crown - a bamboo skin crown.
Merchants are not allowed to wear fine silk and silk sweaters, are not allowed to hold weapons, and are not allowed to ride alone and drive.
In the eighth month of autumn, it was announced that officials who had committed crimes in the past that had not been discovered by the defendant would be pardoned.
In September, he returned to Kyoto from Luoyang, accompanied by the king of Huainan, the king of Liang, the king of Zhao, and the king of Chu.
In the winter and tenth month of the ninth year, the king of Huainan, the king of Liang, the king of Zhao, and the Chu dynasty paid homage to the emperor in Weiyang Palace.
Arrange a banquet in the front hall. The emperor held a jade cup to toast the Supreme Emperor's birthday. The emperor said: When his son was young, his father always thought that his son had no future and could not start a family or start a business. He was not as diligent as his second brother.
Who has created more foundation today than your second brother?
All the officials in the palace cheered long live the emperor, and their laughter continued to add to the joy of the emperor and the emperor.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
十一月，徙齐、楚大族昭氏、屈氏、景氏、怀氏、田氏五姓关中，与利田宅。
十二月，行如雒阳。
贯高等谋逆发觉，逮捕高等，并捕赵王敖下狱。
诏敢有随王，罪三族。
郎中田叔、孟舒等十人自髡钳为王家奴，从王就狱。
王实不知其谋。
春正月，废赵王敖为宣平侯。
徙代王如意为赵王，王赵国。
丙寅，前有罪殊死以下皆赦之。
二月，行自雒阳至。
贤赵臣田叔、孟舒等十人，召见与语，汉廷臣无能出其右者。上说，尽拜为郡守、诸侯相。
夏六月乙未晦，日有食之。
十年冬十月，淮南王、燕王、荆王、梁王、楚王、齐王、长沙王来朝。
夏五月，太上皇后崩。
秋七月癸卯，太上皇崩，葬万年。
赦栎阳囚死罪以下。
八月，令诸侯王皆立太上皇庙于国都。九月，代相国陈豨反。
上曰： 豨尝为吾使，甚有信。
代地吾所急，故封豨为列侯，以相国守代，今乃与王黄等劫掠代地！
吏民非有罪也，能去豨、黄来归者，皆赦之。
上自东，至邯郸。
上喜曰： 豨不南据邯郸而阻漳水，吾知其亡能为矣。
赵相周昌奏常山二十五城亡其二十城，请诛守、尉。
上曰： 守、尉反乎？
对曰： 不。
上曰： 是力不足，亡罪。
上令周昌选赵壮士可令将者，白见四人。
上嫚骂曰： 竖子能为将乎！
四人惭，皆伏地。
上封各千户，以为将。
左右谏曰： 从入蜀、汉，伐楚，赏未遍行，今封此，何功？
上曰： 非汝所知。
陈豨反，赵、代地皆豨有。
translation: 
In November, the five surnames of Qi and Chu, Zhao, Qu, Jing, Huai, and Tian, ​​were moved to Guanzhong and given better land and houses.
In December, he arrived in Luoyang.
When Zhao Xiangguan's assassination plot was exposed, all of them were arrested, and Zhao Wang Ao was also arrested and imprisoned.
The edict stated that whoever dares to have contact with King Zhao will have his three clans destroyed.
Zhao Langzhong, Uncle Tian, ​​Meng Shu and other ten people wore shackles and chains themselves as slaves of King Zhao, and accompanied King Zhao to prison.
King Zhao was indeed unaware of the plot to assassinate the emperor.
In the first month of the spring of the tenth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, King Ao of Zhao was deposed as Marquis of Xuanping.
The lord moved to the throne, Ruyi, to be the King of Zhao and to rule over the land of Zhao.
On the twenty-eighth day of the first lunar month, an edict was issued stating that all former criminals would be pardoned except for the death penalty.
In February, I returned to Kyoto from Luoyang.
The emperor admired the conduct of Zhao Chen, Tian Shu, Meng Shu and other ten people. He summoned and had a conversation with them and found that their talents exceeded those of the court ministers. The emperor admired them very much and made them all governors and prime ministers.
Summer, June 30th, solar eclipse.
In the tenth month of winter, the kings of Huainan, Yan, Jing, Liang, Chu, Qi, and Changsha came to court.
In May of the summer of the eleventh year, the Supreme Empress passed away.
On the fourteenth day of the seventh month in autumn, the Supreme Emperor passed away and was buried in ten thousand years.
Prisoners in Yueyang County, the cemetery area, were pardoned except for capital crimes.
In August, the princes and princes from all over the country were ordered to build the Supreme Emperor's Temple in the capital. In September, Chen discussed the rebellion on behalf of the local prime minister.
The emperor said: Chen Yi has carried out my mission with great credit.
Daidi is a place that I attach great importance to, so I made him a prince and guarded Daidi as the Prime Minister. Unexpectedly, today I actually made trouble with Wang Huang and others here!
The officials and people in this place are innocent, and anyone who can break with Huang and come to submit will be pardoned.
The emperor personally went on an eastward expedition and reached Handan.
The emperor said happily: "I don't think Chen Yi can do anything if he does not occupy Handan in the south but relies on Zhangshui to defend himself."
Zhao Xiangguo and Zhou Chang reported that 20 of the 25 cities in Changshan County were occupied by Chen Yi, and requested that the governor of Changshan County be killed.
The emperor said: Did Shou and Wei take part in the rebellion?
Answer: No.
The emperor said: This is because they have insufficient troops and are not guilty.
The emperor ordered Zhou Chang to select those from Zhao who were strong enough to serve as generals. Zhou Chang introduced four of them.
The emperor cursed: Can boys be generals?
The four of them were ashamed and kowtowed to the ground.
The emperor granted the four people the title of Thousand Households and appointed them as generals.
The people on the left and right tried to dissuade them and said: Ever since they entered the Shu Han Dynasty and attacked Chu Xiang, the rewards have not been fully implemented, but today they are suddenly granted the title of Thousand Households. What do they have?
The emperor said: This is not what you know.
Chen Yi rebelled and occupied the lands of Zhao and Dai.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
吾以羽檄征天下兵，未有至者，今计唯独邯郸中兵耳。
吾何爱四千户，不以慰赵子弟！
皆曰： 善。
又求： 乐毅有后乎？ 得其孙叔，封之乐乡，号华成君。问豨将，皆故贾人。
上曰： 吾知与之矣。
乃多以金购豨将，豨将多降。
十一年冬，上在邯郸。
豨将侯敞将万余人游行，王黄将骑千余军曲逆，张春将卒万余人度河攻聊城。
汉将军郭蒙与齐将击，大破之。
太尉周勃道太原入定代地，至马邑，马邑不下，攻残之。
豨将赵利守东垣，高祖攻之不下。
卒骂，上怒。
城降，卒骂者斩之。
诸县坚守不降反寇者，复租赋三岁。
春正月，淮阴侯韩信谋反长安，夷三族。
将军柴武斩韩王信于参合。
上还雒阳。诏曰： 代地居常山之北，与夷狄边，赵乃从山南有之，远，数有胡寇，难以为国。
颇取山南太原之地益属代，代之云中以西为云中郡，则代受边寇益少矣。
王、相国、通侯、吏二千石择可立为代王者。
燕王绾、相国何等三十三人皆曰： 子恒贤知温良，请立以为代王，都晋阳。
大赦天下。
二月，诏曰： 欲省赋甚。今献未有程，吏或多赋以为献，而诸侯王尤多，民疾之。
令诸侯王、通侯常以十月朝献，即郡各以其口数率，人岁六十三钱，以给献费。
又曰： 盖闻王者莫高于周文，伯者莫高于齐桓，皆待贤人而成名。
今天下贤者智能，岂特古之人乎？
患在人主不交故也，士奚由进！
translation: 
I issued an emergency military order to recruit soldiers and horses from all over the world, but no one has arrived yet. Now I am relying on the soldiers from Handan.
Why am I reluctant to give up the official position of these four thousand households and not give encouragement to the children of Zhao? Everyone said: Yes.
The emperor asked again: Does the famous general Le Yi of the Yan Kingdom have a heir?
He found his grandson Leshu and sealed him in Lexiang, known as Huachengjun. The generals who asked Chen Yi about their situation were all merchants from the past.
The emperor said: I know how to deal with them.
So more gold coins were given to bribe the generals of Yi, and most of the generals surrendered.
In the winter of the eleventh year, the emperor was in Handan.
Chen Yi's general Hou Chang led more than 10,000 soldiers to review and demonstrate, and Wang Huang led more than a thousand cavalry to garrison in Quni. The rebel general Zhang Chun led more than 10,000 troops across the Yellow River to attack Liaocheng.
Han general Guo Meng and Qi generals attacked and defeated the rebels.
Taiwei Zhou Bo entered Dai by way of Taiyuan. When his troops reached Mayi, Mayi refused to surrender. Zhou Bo attacked and captured Mayi.
Chen Yibu took Zhao Li to guard Cheyuan, but Gaozu failed to capture it.
The rebels cursed the emperor, and the emperor was angry.
After the conquest, the rebels who cursed the emperor were beheaded in public display.
Counties that insist on not surrendering to the rebels will be exempted from rent for three years.
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, rebelled in Chang'an and was executed by the three clans.
General Chai Wu killed King Xin of Han in Shenhe.
The emperor returned to Luoyang and issued an edict: Dai's land is to the north of Changshan Mountain, adjacent to Yi Di, while Zhao's land is to the south of Changshan, far away from Yi and Di. Dai's land has been invaded by Hu bandits many times, making it difficult to defend.
Nowadays, part of the land divided into Taiyuan in Shannan belongs to Dai, and the west of Yunzhong in Dai is Yunzhong County. In this way, Dai is less likely to be invaded by border invaders.
Among the two thousand stones from the king, prime minister, Tonghou, and officials, a person can be selected as the acting king.
Thirty-three people, including King Lu Wan of Yan, Prime Minister Xiao He, and others all played together: Prince Liu Hengxian is wise and kind, please appoint him as the acting king, all in Jinyang.
Then an edict was issued to grant amnesty to the whole world.
In February, the emperor issued an edict saying: I deeply want to reduce the amount of taxes and taxes, but there is no uniform regulation on how to hand them over to the treasury. Local officials often collect more taxes to hand over, while princes and princes in various places collect even more taxes, making the people very miserable.
We are now informing the princes and Tonghou that every tenth month is the period for handing in tax collections. As for the calculation method in each place, it is based on the population. Each person pays 63 yuan per year to the national treasury.
The edict also said: It is often said that no king can surpass King Wen of Zhou, and no tyrant can surpass Duke Huan of Qi. They all rely on the assistance of wise men to become famous.
Are there not as many talented and intelligent people in the world today as there were in ancient times?
I'm afraid that if the owner doesn't respect talents, talents will not be discovered and put into use!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今吾以天之灵、贤士大夫定有天下，以为一家，欲其长久，世世奉宗庙亡绝也。
贤人已与我共平之矣，而不与吾共安利之，可乎？
贤士大夫有肯从我游者，吾能尊显之。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
御史大夫昌下相国，相国酂侯下诸侯王，御史中执法下郡守，其有意称明德者，必身劝，为之驾，遣诣相国府，署行、义、年。
有而弗言，觉，免。
年老癃病，勿遣。
三月，梁王彭越谋反，夷三族。
诏曰： 择可以为梁王、淮阳王者。
燕王绾、相国何等请立子恢为梁王，子友为淮阳王。
罢东郡，颇益梁；罢颍川郡，颇益淮阳。
夏四月，行自雒阳至。
令丰人徙关中者皆复终身。
五月，诏曰： 粤人之俗，好相攻击，前时秦徙中县之民南方三郡，使与百粤杂处。
会天下诛秦，南海尉它居南方长治之，甚有文理，中县人以故不耗减，粤人相攻击之俗益止，俱赖其力。
今立它为南粤王。
使陆贾即授玺、绶。
它稽首称臣。
六月，令士卒从入蜀、汉、关中者皆复终身。
秋七月，淮南王布反。
上问诸将，滕公言故楚令尹薛公有筹策。
上召见，薛公言布形势，上善之，封薛公千户。
诏王、相国择可立为淮南王者，群臣请立子长为王。
上乃发上郡、北地、陇西车骑，巴、蜀材官及中尉卒三万人为皇太子卫，军霸上。
布果如薛公言，东击杀荆王刘贾，劫其兵，度淮击楚，楚王交走入薛。
translation: 
Today, I rely on the power of God and the support of the wise men and officials to conquer the world and become the unification of Liu and Han. I want to pass on the legacy for a long time and worship the ancestral temple from generation to generation without dying.
All the virtuous men and women have helped me to rule the world together, but you can't share the glory with me, okay?
As long as all the wise men and officials can work with me to govern the country, I will definitely give them high officials and generous salaries.
I am announcing this to the world so that everyone knows my intention.
The imperial censor Dafu Chang received the edict and forwarded it to the prime minister. The prime minister praised Marquis Xiao He and received the edict and sent it to all the princes and kings. The censor Zhongcheng received the edict and sent it to the governors of various places. All the wise and virtuous people recognized by various places should come to encourage them in person and send a car to Kyoto. They should first report to the prime minister's palace and fill in their occupation and age.
Those who conceal their talents and fail to report them will be dismissed from their posts after being discovered.
If you are old, tired or sick, there is no need to send them.
In March, Liang Wang Pengyue rebelled and was executed by the three clans.
The edict said: Choose someone who can be the king of Liang and the king of Huaiyang.
King Lu Wan of Yan and Prime Minister Xiao He asked Prince Hui to be crowned Prince of Liang, and Prince Friend to be Prince of Huaiyang.
Dongjun was abandoned and part of it was transferred to Liangdi; Yingchuan County was abandoned and part of it was transferred to Huaiyang.
In April of summer, I returned to Kyoto from Luoyang.
It was ordered that all people from Feng County who moved to Guanzhong were exempted from corvee for life.
In May, an edict was issued saying: It is the custom of the Cantonese people to fight with each other. In the past, the Qin Dynasty moved people from the Central Plains to enrich the three counties of Guilin, Xiangjun and Nanhai, so that they could mix with hundreds of Cantonese.
Later, when the world was about to punish Qin, Zhao Tuo, the captain of Nanhai, governed here for a long time and was very organized. The people who moved from the Central Plains were not harmed, and the trend of fighting among the Cantonese people stopped. This was all due to Zhao Tuo's good governance.
Now Zhao Tuo is made King of Southern Guangdong.
He sent Lu Jia to give Zhao Tuo a seal ribbon.
Zhao Tuo kowtowed and proclaimed himself a minister.
In June, it was decreed that all soldiers who entered Shu, Han, and Guanzhong from Emperor Gaozu would be exempted from hard labor for life.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Ying of Huainan rebelled.
The emperor asked the generals about their plans, and Duke Teng said that Duke Yin Xue, the former commander of Chu, had already had a clever plan.
The emperor immediately summoned him and Xue Gong analyzed the situation in Yingbu. The emperor was very satisfied and granted Xue Gong a thousand households.
The king and the prime minister were ordered to choose a person who could be made king of Huainan, and the ministers asked the prince to make his son the king.
The emperor then mobilized 30,000 soldiers from Shangjun, Beidi, Longxi Chariots, Bashu warriors and imperial guards to guard the crown prince and stationed troops in Bashang.
Yingbu did not go as Xue Gong expected. He attacked Jing King Liu Jia from the east, forced the Jing King's troops to surrender, crossed the Huai River to attack Chu, and Chu King Liu Jiao retreated to Xue.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
上赦天下死罪以下，皆令从军；征诸侯兵，上自将以击布。
十二年冬十月，上破布军于会缶。布走，令别将追之。
上还，过沛，留，置酒沛宫，悉召故人父老子弟佐酒。
发沛中兒得百二十人，教之歌。
酒酣，上击筑自歌曰： 大风起兮云飞扬，威加海内兮归故乡，安得猛士兮守四方！
令兒皆和习之。
上乃起舞，忼慨伤怀，泣数行下。
谓沛父兄曰： 游子悲故乡。
吾虽都关中，万岁之后吾魂魄犹思沛。
且朕自沛公以诛暴逆，遂有天下，其以沛为朕汤沐邑，复其民，世世无有所与。
沛父老诸母故人日乐饮极欢，道旧故为笑乐。
十余日，上欲去，沛父兄固请。
上曰： 吾人众多，父兄不能给。
乃去。
沛中空县皆之邑西献。
上留止，张饮三日。
沛父兄皆顿首曰： 沛幸得复，丰未得，唯陛下哀矜。
上曰： 丰者，吾所生长，极不忘耳。
吾特以其为雍齿故反我为魏。
沛父兄固请之，乃并复丰，比沛。
汉别将击布军洮水南北，皆大破之，追斩布番阳。
周勃定代，斩陈豨于当城。
诏曰： 吴，古之建国也。日者荆王兼有其地，今死亡后。
朕欲复立吴王，其议可者。
长沙王臣等言： 沛侯濞重厚，请立为吴王。
已拜，上召谓濞曰： 汝状有反相。
因拊其背，曰： 汉后五十年东南有乱，岂汝邪？
然天下同姓一家，汝慎毋反。
濞顿首曰： 不敢。
translation: 
The emperor pardoned all prisoners in the world who were guilty of less than capital crimes and joined the army; at the same time, he recruited soldiers from the princes and the emperor personally conquered Yingbu.
In the winter of the twelfth year in October, the emperor defeated Yingbu's soldiers in Huifou. Yingbu fled, and the emperor's faction gave chase.
When the emperor returned to the capital, he passed through his hometown of Peixian County and stopped temporarily. He held a banquet in Peigong and entertained all his old friends, fathers and children to drink.
He summoned one hundred and twenty men from Peizhong and taught them how to sing.
When the wine was in full swing, the emperor played a musical instrument and sang to himself: The wind is strong and the clouds are flying/Vega the four seas and return home/And the fierce warriors guard the four directions!
The sons and daughters all sang together.
The emperor danced to the song, was generous and sentimental, and shed tears.
To Peidi’s father and brother: Wanderers always miss their hometown.
Although I live in Guanzhong, after my death, my soul will still miss my hometown in Peidi.
Recalling that I served as Pei Gong and raised troops to overthrow the violent Qin Dynasty, and then conquered the world, I would like to use Pei as my Tang Muyi, exempt the people of Pei from corvee, and not pay taxes to the court from generation to generation.
The elders and old friends of Peixian County had a great time drinking together and telling stories about the emperor's past for fun.
More than ten days later, the emperor wanted to resign, but Peidi's father and brother insisted on staying.
The emperor said: I have many followers, and my father and brother cannot provide for them.
Just left.
Thousands of people in Peizhong sent the emperor to the west of the county and presented him with farewell gifts.
The emperor stayed again and opened his tent to entertain those who were leaving for three days.
The fathers and sons of Peixian County all kowtowed in gratitude and said: Peixian County was exempted from taxes and servitude by the emperor's favor, but Feng County failed to receive the favor. I hope the emperor will take care of Feng County.
The emperor said: Feng County is the place where I grew up, and I will never forget it.
I don't want to take care of him just because Yong Chi once rebelled against me here and returned to Wei.
Pei's father and brother repeatedly requested, and the emperor agreed to exempt Feng County from taxes and servitude, just like Pei.
The Han generals attacked the remaining troops of Yingbu in the north and south of Taoshui River, wiped out all the rebels, and pursued Yingbu in Fanyang.
Zhou Boping established the land of dynasty and killed Chen Yu in the city.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Wu is a country in ancient times. In the past, King Jing had his land, but today King Jing has died and has no heir.
I want to reestablish the king of Wu. Please recommend someone who can be appointed.
Changsha's royal ministers and others said: "Peihou Liu Bi is mature and prudent. Please make him king of Wu."
After the seal was sealed, the emperor summoned Liu Bi and said: "You look rebellious."
He put his hand on his back and said: "In the fifty years after the Han Dynasty, there was chaos in the southeast. Should it be your fault?"
But now we are a family with the same surname as Liu Han, so you must not rebel.
Liu Bi kowtowed in fear and said, "I don't dare."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
十一月，行自淮南还。过鲁，以大牢祠孔子。
十二月，诏曰： 秦皇帝、楚隐王、魏安釐王、齐愍王、赵悼襄王皆绝亡后。其与秦始皇帝守冢二十家，楚、魏、齐各十家，赵及魏公子亡忌各五家，令视其冢，复，亡与它事。
陈豨降将言豨反时燕王卢绾使人之豨所阴谋。
上使辟阳侯审食其迎绾，绾称疾。
食其言绾反有端。
春二月，使樊哙、周勃将兵击绾。
诏曰： 燕王绾与吾有故，爱之如子，闻与陈豨有谋，吾以为亡有，故使人迎绾。绾称疾不来，谋反明矣。
燕吏民非有罪也，赐其吏六百石以上爵各一级。
诏曰： 南武侯织亦粤之世也，立以为南海王。
三月，诏曰： 吾立为天子，帝有天下，十二年于今矣。
与天下之豪士贤大夫共定天下，同安辑之。其有功者上致之王，次为列侯，下乃食邑。
而重臣之亲，或为列侯，皆令自置吏，得赋敛，女子公主。
为列侯食邑者，皆佩之印，赐大第室。
吏二千石，徙之长安，受小第室。
入蜀、汉定三秦者，皆世世复。
吾于天下贤士功臣，可谓亡负矣。
其有不义背天子擅起兵者，与天下共伐诛之。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
上击布时，为流矢所中，行道疾。
疾甚，吕后迎良医。
医入见，上问医。
曰： 疾可治。
于是上嫚骂之，曰： 吾以布衣提三尺取天下，此非天命乎？
命乃在天，虽扁鹊何益！
遂不使治疾，赐黄金五十斤，罢之。
translation: 
In November, he returned to Kyoto from Huainan and passed through Lu, where he sacrificed a whole cow to Confucius.
In December, an edict was issued stating: The Emperor of Qin, King Yin of Chu, King Anxi of Wei, King Min of Qi, and King Daoxiang of Zhao all have no heirs. Twenty families are now designated to guard the tomb of the First Emperor of Qin, ten families each for the kings of Chu, Wei, and Qi, and five families each for the kings of Zhao and Wei Xinling. Their mission is to manage and guard the tombs and exempt them from other taxes and duties.
When Chen Yi surrendered and reported that Chen Yi was rebelling, King Lu Wan of Yan sent people to Chen Yi's office to participate in the conspiracy.
The emperor sent Biyang Hou Shenshi to invite Wan to return to the capital, but Lu Wan said that he was ill and could not come.
Shi Qi told the emperor that Lu Wan might join in the rebellion.
In the spring and February of the following year, Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo were sent to lead troops to attack Lu Wan.
The emperor issued a proclamation saying: King Yan and I have a very close relationship, and I love him like a son. I heard that he and Chen? There was collusion, but I thought it was untrue, so I sent someone to ask him to come to Kyoto to explain it. Lu Wan said he was ill and couldn't come, so he participated in Chen?
The conspiracy is clearly revealed. The officials and people of Yan are innocent, and every official in Yan who has more than 600 shi will be promoted to one rank.
Those who have connections with Lu Wan and are now able to abandon the dark side and turn to the bright side will be exempted from prosecution and will also receive a knighthood. He also ordered the princes and kings to recommend the person who could be made the king of Yan. The princes and ministers of Changsha asked the prince Jian to be the king of Yan.
In March, the emperor issued an edict saying: It has been twelve years since I ascended the throne as the Son of Heaven and proclaimed myself Emperor in the world.
Together with the heroes and wise men of the world, we will pacify the world and govern the world together. The superior officials with meritorious services will be granted the title of king, the second grade will be granted the title of marquis, and the inferior officials will be given special food and towns.
Some of the relatives of meritorious officials were granted the title of marquis, and were allowed to set up their own officials and collect their own taxes, and their daughters also had Tang Muyi.
Those who owned food and towns for the princes were given seals and ribbons and were rewarded with large houses.
Officials with two thousand shi moved to Chang'an and were rewarded with houses according to their rank.
The soldiers who followed me into the Shu Han Dynasty and settled the Three Qin Dynasties were all exempted from taxes and servitude for generations.
I have treated all the wise men and heroes in the world rightly.
If there is an ungrateful person who betrays the emperor and supports his troops, I will mobilize all the people in the world to punish him.
I am announcing this to the world so that everyone can understand what I mean.
When the emperor attacked Yingbu, he was shot by a stray arrow and fell ill during the battle.
The condition gradually worsened. Empress Lu invited a good doctor.
The doctor came in and the emperor asked what he thought of the injury.
The doctor said: The disease will get better.
At this time, the emperor laughed and cursed at the doctor. He said: I use a commoner to carry a three-foot sword to conquer the world. Isn't this destiny?
My destiny is in heaven, so what good will it do me if Bian Que, the miracle doctor, is reincarnated!
He refused to let the doctor diagnose the disease, rewarded him with fifty pounds of gold, and asked him to leave the palace.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
吕后问曰： 陛下百岁后，萧相国既死，谁令代之？
上曰： 曹参可。
问其次，曰： 王陵可，然少戆，陈平可以助之。
陈平知有余，然难独任。
周勃重厚少文，然安刘氏者必勃也，可令为太尉。
吕后复问其次，上曰： 此后亦非乃所知也。
卢绾与数千人居塞下候伺，幸上疾愈，自入谢。
夏四月甲辰，帝崩于长乐宫。卢绾闻之，遂亡入匈奴。
吕后与审食其谋曰： 诸将故与帝为编户民，北面为臣，心常鞅鞅，今乃事少主，非尽族是，天下不安。
以故不发丧。
人或闻，以语郦商。
郦商见审食其曰： 闻帝已崩四日，不发丧，欲诛诸将。
诚如此，天下危矣。
陈平、灌婴将十万守荥阳，樊哙、周勃将二十万定燕、代，此闻帝崩，诸将皆诛，必连兵还乡，以攻关中。
大臣内畔，诸将外反，亡可跷足待也。
审食其入言之，乃以丁未发丧，大赦天下。
五月丙寅，葬长陵。
已下，皇太子、群臣皆反至太上皇庙。
群臣曰： 帝起细微，拨乱世反之正，平定天下，为汉太祖，功最高。
上尊号曰高皇帝。
初，高祖不修文学，而性明达，好谋，能听，自监门戍卒，见之如旧。
初顺民心作三章之约。天下既定，命萧何次律令，韩信申军法，张苍定章程，叔孙通制礼仪，陆贾造《新语》。
又与功臣剖符作誓，丹书铁契，金匮石室，藏之宗庙。
虽日不暇给，规摹弘远矣。
translation: 
Queen Lu asked: Your Majesty, a hundred years later, Prime Minister Xiao He will also pass away. Who can replace him as prime minister?
The emperor said: Cao Shen can do it.
Empress Lu asked who would succeed Cao Shen, and the emperor said: "Wang Ling can, but he has a somewhat upright character. Chen Ping can help him."
Chen Ping was resourceful, but it was difficult for him to serve as prime minister alone.
Zhou Bo was old and prudent but not good at diction, but it was Zhou Bo who stabilized Liu Han and allowed him to serve as Taiwei.
Empress Lu asked who would succeed him in the future, and the emperor said: "I can't say clearly in the future."
Lu Wan and thousands of others waited at the border fortress, hoping that the emperor would recover and go to court to apologize and defend himself against false accusations.
On April 25th in the summer, Emperor Gao died in Changle Palace. After hearing the news, Lu Wan fled to the Huns.
Empress Lu said to Shen Shiqi: Many generals and emperors were registered as civilians in the past. Later, they became ministers in the north, but they were always dissatisfied. Now they want to fight for the young master again. If they are not killed, the world will be uneasy.
Therefore, obituary notices of the emperor's death were not published.
Someone heard about the emperor's death and told Li Shang.
When Li Shang saw the emperor, he said: "I heard that the emperor had passed away, but he still did not mourn for four days, so he wanted to kill the princes."
If this is the case, the world will be in danger.
Chen Ping and Guan Ying led 100,000 troops to guard Xingyang, while Fan Kuai and Zhou Bo led 200,000 troops to suppress Yan and Dai. If they heard that the emperor had died and wanted to kill the generals, they would join forces and march to Kyoto to seize Guanzhong.
If the ministers rebel internally and the generals rebel externally, defeat will be inevitable.
Shen Shi conveyed this statement to Empress Lu, who announced a general amnesty on April 28th.
On May 17, the emperor was buried in Changling.
After the coffin was lowered, the Crown Prince and his ministers all returned to the Supreme Emperor's Temple.
The emperor and his ministers said: The emperor rose from the common people, turned the tide and returned to the right path, pacified the world, and became the founding ancestor of the Han Dynasty, with the highest credit.
His title is Emperor Gao.
Originally, Emperor Gaozu did not pay much attention to book knowledge, but he was cheerful and intelligent by nature, good at thinking, and able to gather opinions from everyone. He could get along easily with everyone from the people and officials to ordinary soldiers.
At the beginning of entering the Pass, he made three chapters in compliance with the people's wishes. After the world was peaceful, he ordered Xiao He to organize the laws and regulations, ordered Han Xin to establish and improve military disciplines, ordered Zhang Cang to unify the calendar, weights and measures, etc., ordered Shusun Tong to formulate various etiquette and rituals, and ordered Lu Jia to write a "Xinyu" summarizing the rise and fall of history.
He also cut the talisman and swore an oath with each of the meritorious officials, wrote an iron deed in elixir, stored it in a gold cabinet and stone chamber, and kept it in the ancestral temple.
Although Emperor Gaozu was busy with everything, the plans and measures he made were far-reaching.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
赞曰：《春秋》晋史蔡墨有言：陶唐氏既衰，其后有刘累，学扰龙，事孔甲，范氏其后也。
而大夫范宣子亦曰： 祖自虞以上为陶唐氏，在夏为御龙氏，在商为豕韦氏，在周为唐杜氏，晋主夏盟为范氏。
范氏为晋士师，鲁文公世奔秦。
后归于晋，其处者为刘氏。
刘向云战国时刘氏自秦获于魏。秦灭魏，迁大梁，都于丰，故周市说雍齿曰： 丰，故梁徙也。
是以颂高祖云： 汉帝本系，出自唐帝。
降及于周，在秦作刘。
涉魏而东，遂为丰公。
丰公，盖太上皇父。
其迁日浅，坟墓在丰鲜焉。
及高祖即位，置祠祀官，则有秦、晋、梁、荆之巫，世祠天地，缀之以祀，岂不信哉！
由是推之，汉承尧运，德祚已盛，断蛇著符，旗帜上赤，协于火德，自然之应，得天统矣。
translation: 
Ban Gu commented: "Spring and Autumn" Jin historian Cai Mo said: The Tao Tang family established by Tang Yao declined. Later, Liu Lei learned the art of dragon training and ministered to Kong Jia, the son of Xia Dynasty. The Fan family of Jin was his descendant.
Fan Xuanzi, a doctor of the Jin Dynasty, also said: My ancestors were Tao and Tangmin from Yu and above, the Yulong family in the Xia Dynasty, the Wei family in the Shang Dynasty, the Du family in the Tang Dynasty, and the Fan family when the Jin Dynasty was the overlord.
The Fan family was the Zhengqing of the Jin Dynasty, and he fled to Qin during the reign of Duke Wen of Lu.
Later it returned to the Jin Dynasty, and the one who stayed in Qin was the Liu family.
Liu Xiang said that when the Kingdom was established, the Liu family returned to Wei from Qin, Qin attacked Wei, and the Wei capital moved to Daliang, all in Fengdi, so Zhou Shi persuaded Yong Chi and said: Feng is the place where Wei moved.
Accordingly, in praising the emperor of the Han Dynasty, he said: The lineage of the Han emperors comes from Emperor Yao of the Tao and Tang Dynasties.
It was passed down to the Zhou Dynasty, and his surname was Liu in Qin.
Passing through Wei and heading east, he became Feng Gong.
Feng Gong may be the father of the Supreme Emperor.
Not long after they moved to Feng, there were not many graves in Fengdi.
When Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he set up ancestral temple officials, so there were ancestral temples in Qin, Jin, Liang, and Jing. From generation to generation, ancestral temples have been offering sacrifices to ancestors in heaven and earth, and the incense continues. This has its roots!
It can be inferred from this that the Han Dynasty inherited the fortune of Yao, and its virtues were at its peak. The prophecy of breaking the snake and reuniting it. The white emperor's son was killed by the red emperor's son. The flag is mainly red, which is a symbol of the virtue of fire. The natural induction of fire replacing wood is in line with the law of heaven's order.


