Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 3, 24, 8, 18, 15, 22, 25]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔汉宣帝以为 政平讼理，其惟良二千石乎！
前史亦云： 今之郡守，古之诸侯也。
故长吏之职，号为亲民，是以导德齐礼，移风易俗，咸必由之。
齐末昏乱，政移群小，赋调云起，徭役无度。守宰多倚附权门，互长贪虐，掊克聚敛，侵愁细民，天下摇动，无所厝其手足。
高祖在田，知民疾苦，及梁台建，仍下宽大之书，昏时杂调，咸悉除省，于是四海之内，始得息肩。
逮践皇极，躬览庶事，日昃听政，求民之瘼。
乃命輶轩以省方俗，置肺石以达穷民，务加隐恤，舒其急病。
元年，始去人赀，计丁为布；身服浣濯之衣，御府无文饰，宫掖不过绫彩，无珠玑锦绣；太官撤牢馔，每日膳菜蔬，饮酒不过三盏一一以俭先海内。
每选长吏，务简廉平，皆召见御前，亲勖治道。
translation: 
In the past, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty believed that if his administration was fair and orderly, and his lawsuits could be heard fairly, he would be considered a good governor!
The history books of the previous dynasties also said: The current county guards are the ancient princes.
Therefore, local governors are called officials who are close to the people. Therefore, they must be responsible for persuading the people to establish virtues, using etiquette to clean up the folk customs, and changing customs.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, the government was in chaos, and power fell into the hands of a group of villains. All kinds of taxes were levied harshly, and corvees were collected without restraint.
Emperor Gaozu was among the people and understood the sufferings of the people. After the Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Emperor Gaozu frequently issued orders to treat the people leniently and exempted and suspended all kinds of heavy taxes that were imposed when the government was in chaos. As a result, the people all over the world had the opportunity to recuperate.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he personally understood various affairs, dealt with political affairs at night, and understood the sufferings and illnesses of the people.
So envoys were sent to inspect the customs and sentiments of various places, and lung stones were set up outside the imperial court gates so that the poor and helpless people could complain about their grievances, sympathize with the people and relieve their sufferings and hardships.
In the first year of Tianjian, the taxes levied on minors began to be removed, and taxes were only levied on adults. Emperor Gaozu himself wore washed old clothes, and there were no luxurious decorations hidden in the treasury. The people in the court wore only silk, without pearls and brocades. The eunuchs followed Emperor Gaozu's order and did not have food or wine. They only ate vegetables and vegetarian food every day, and even if they drank no more than three cups, they all used their frugality to set an example for the people of the world.
Every time when Emperor Gaozu selected local governors, he would always select those who were honest and fair. When local governors took office, Emperor Gaozu personally summoned them and encouraged them to implement benevolent policies and govern the people.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty believed that fair administration and proper handling of lawsuits defined a good governor. Historical records note that local governors, considered "officials close to the people," were responsible for promoting virtue, refining customs, and changing social practices through etiquette. During the chaotic end of the Qi Dynasty, power fell into villainous hands, with harsh taxes and unrestrained corvée labor. Emperor Gaozu, having lived among the people and understood their suffering, frequently issued lenient orders after establishing his rule, exempting heavy taxes and allowing the populace to recuperate.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔汉宣帝以为 政平讼理，其惟良二千石乎！
前史亦云： 今之郡守，古之诸侯也。
故长吏之职，号为亲民，是以导德齐礼，移风易俗，咸必由之。
齐末昏乱，政移群小，赋调云起，徭役无度。守宰多倚附权门，互长贪虐，掊克聚敛，侵愁细民，天下摇动，无所厝其手足。
高祖在田，知民疾苦，及梁台建，仍下宽大之书，昏时杂调，咸悉除省，于是四海之内，始得息肩。
逮践皇极，躬览庶事，日昃听政，求民之瘼。
乃命輶轩以省方俗，置肺石以达穷民，务加隐恤，舒其急病。
元年，始去人赀，计丁为布；身服浣濯之衣，御府无文饰，宫掖不过绫彩，无珠玑锦绣；太官撤牢馔，每日膳菜蔬，饮酒不过三盏一一以俭先海内。
每选长吏，务简廉平，皆召见御前，亲勖治道。
translation: 
In the past, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty believed that if his administration was fair and orderly, and his lawsuits could be heard fairly, he would be considered a good governor!
The history books of the previous dynasties also said: The current county guards are the ancient princes.
Therefore, local governors are called officials who are close to the people. Therefore, they must be responsible for persuading the people to establish virtues, using etiquette to clean up the folk customs, and changing customs.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, the government was in chaos, and power fell into the hands of a group of villains. All kinds of taxes were levied harshly, and corvees were collected without restraint.
Emperor Gaozu was among the people and understood the sufferings of the people. After the Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Emperor Gaozu frequently issued orders to treat the people leniently and exempted and suspended all kinds of heavy taxes that were imposed when the government was in chaos. As a result, the people all over the world had the opportunity to recuperate.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he personally understood various affairs, dealt with political affairs at night, and understood the sufferings and illnesses of the people.
So envoys were sent to inspect the customs and sentiments of various places, and lung stones were set up outside the imperial court gates so that the poor and helpless people could complain about their grievances, sympathize with the people and relieve their sufferings and hardships.
In the first year of Tianjian, the taxes levied on minors began to be removed, and taxes were only levied on adults. Emperor Gaozu himself wore washed old clothes, and there were no luxurious decorations hidden in the treasury. The people in the court wore only silk, without pearls and brocades. The eunuchs followed Emperor Gaozu's order and did not have food or wine. They only ate vegetables and vegetarian food every day, and even if they drank no more than three cups, they all used their frugality to set an example for the people of the world.
Every time when Emperor Gaozu selected local governors, he would always select those who were honest and fair. When local governors took office, Emperor Gaozu personally summoned them and encouraged them to implement benevolent policies and govern the people.

summary:
summary line 1: After ascending the throne, Emperor Gaozu personally attended to state affairs, working through the night and understanding the people's hardships. He sent envoys to inspect local customs, set up complaint stones outside the imperial court for the poor to voice grievances, and showed sympathy for the suffering. In the first year of Tianjian, taxes on minors were removed, with only adults taxed. The emperor wore washed old clothes, kept no luxuries in the treasury, and court officials wore only silk without pearls or brocades. Eunuchs followed his example, eating only vegetables and drinking no more than three cups, setting a frugal example for the nation.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
始擢尚书殿中郎到溉为建安内史，左民侍郎刘鬷为晋安太守，溉等居官，并以廉洁著。
又著令：小县有能，迁为大县；大县有能，迁为二千石。
于是山阴令丘仲孚治有异绩，以为长沙内史；武康令何远清公，以为宣城太守。
剖符为吏者，往往承风焉。
若新野庾荜诸任职者，以经术润饰吏政，或所居流惠，或去后见思，盖后来之良吏也。
缀为《良吏篇》云。
庾荜，字休野，新野人也。
父深之，宋应州刺史。
荜年十岁，遭父忧，居丧毁瘠，为州党所称。
弱冠，为州迎主簿，举秀才，累迁安西主簿、尚书殿中郎、骠骑功曹史。
博涉群书，有口辩。
translation: 
The great ancestor promoted Dao Gai, a lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace, to serve as the internal history of Jian'an. Zuo Min's minister Liu was appointed as the prefect of Jin'an. After Dao Gai and others took office, they were all known for their integrity.
Emperor Gaozu also issued an order: If the officials serving as magistrates of small counties are capable, they can be promoted to magistrates of large counties; if the magistrates of large counties are capable, they can be promoted to county governors.
At this time, Qiu Zhongfu, the magistrate of Shanyin County, had outstanding political achievements, so he was appointed as the internal history of Changsha; the magistrate of Wukang He Yuan was honest and fair, so he was appointed as the prefect of Xuancheng.
Those who served as local governors were admired and imitated for a while, and it became a fashion.
People who held the position of local governors, such as Xinye Yumo, used Confucian classics to embellish government orders. Some of them extended favors to the people they governed, and some were still remembered by the people after leaving office. These can be regarded as good officials in the future.
Qian Bao compiled their deeds into "Good Officials".
Yu imitated the courtesy name Xiuye, a new savage.
His father Yu Shenzhi was the governor of Yongzhou during the Song Dynasty.
When Yu Fang was ten years old, his father died. During the mourning period, Yu Fang was so sad that his bones were broken, so he was praised by people in the same state.
In the weak year of his crown, he was selected as the chief bookkeeper by the state, promoted scholars, and was promoted to the chief bookkeeper of Anxi, the lieutenant of the Shangshu Palace, and the hussar cavalry officer.
Yu Fang read extensively in books and was extremely eloquent.

summary:
summary line 2: When selecting local governors, Emperor Gaozu chose honest and fair individuals, personally summoning them to encourage benevolent governance. He promoted capable officials from small counties to larger ones, and from larger counties to governorships. Notable appointees included Dao Gai as internal history of Jian'an and Liu as prefect of Jin'an, both known for integrity. Qiu Zhongfu, magistrate of Shanyin County, was promoted to internal history of Changsha for outstanding achievements, while He Yuan of Wukang became prefect of Xuancheng for honesty. These governors became admired models, with some using Confucian classics to embellish government orders and being remembered fondly by the people after leaving office.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
时承凋弊之后，百姓凶荒，所在谷贵，米至数千，民多流散，荜抚循甚有治理。
唯守公禄，清节逾厉，至有经日不举火。
太守、襄阳王闻而馈之，荜谢不受。
天监元年，卒，停尸无以殓，柩不能归。
高祖闻之，诏赐绢百匹、米五十斛。
初，荜为西楚望族，早历显官，乡人乐蔼有干用，素与荜不平，互相陵竞。
蔼事齐豫章王嶷，嶷薨，蔼仕不得志，自步兵校尉求助戍归荆州，时荜为州别驾，益忽蔼。
及高祖践阼，蔼以西朝勋为御史中丞，荜始得会稽行事，既耻之矣；会职事微有谴，高祖以蔼其乡人也，使宣旨诲之，荜大愤，故发病卒。
translation: 
At that time, after the country was in turmoil, people's livelihood was in decline, and there were famines. Rice was expensive everywhere, and the price of rice rose to thousands of dollars per stone. As a result, most of the people fled and became homeless. Yu Fang subsidized the people and had very good political achievements.
He himself only enjoys the state salary and adheres to noble moral integrity more strictly. Therefore, his family is very poor. Sometimes he even does not light a fire to cook all day long because of lack of firewood and rice.
When King Yongyang, the prefect of Kuaiji, heard that he was poor, he donated money and property to him, but Yu Cao declined politely and refused to accept it.
In the first year of Tianjian, Yu Ming died. After his death, Yu Dan's body was left lying there. His family had no money for funeral arrangements and the coffin could not be buried.
When Emperor Gaozu heard the news, he gave the Yu family a hundred bolts of silk and fifty hu of rice.
At the beginning, Yu Mi's family belonged to a prominent family in Western Chu, and he had already held an important official position at an early age. Yu Fang's fellow countryman was cheerful and talented, but he had always been at odds with Yu Fang. The two competed everywhere and refused to give in to each other.
Le Ai served Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang in Qi. After Xiao Yi's death, Le Ai's official career was not satisfactory, so he helped handle defensive matters as an infantry captain and returned to Jingzhou. At that time, Yu Miao was appointed as a farewell officer in Jingzhou, so he despised Le Ai even more.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Le Ai was appointed as the Censor Zhongcheng for his meritorious service in helping Liang revitalize the emperor's career. However, Yu Fang was only given the position of Kuaiji County Affairs Bureau. Yu Fang already felt that this was a shame, and he When Yu Cao made minor mistakes in handling government affairs, Emperor Gaozu sent Le Ai to preach to Yu Ge because he was a fellow countryman of Yu Ge. Yu Cao was so angry that he fell ill and died.

summary:
summary line 3: The text provides detailed biographies of several officials. Yu Mi, from a prominent Western Chu family, served in various positions including as envoy to Qiaoli. Known for honesty, he twice held the position of Biejia in Jingzhou without seeking personal gain, living in poverty with his family suffering hunger and cold. Emperor Ming commended him, and after his death in Tianjian's first year, Emperor Gaozu provided silk and rice for his burial.

Chunk 24: 
original: 
宜升内荣，以显外绩。
可给事黄门侍郎。
远即还，仍为仁威长史。
顷之，出为信武将军，监吴郡。
在吴颇有酒失，迁东阳太守。
远处职，疾强富如仇雠，视贫细如子弟，特为豪右所畏惮。
在东阳岁余，复为受罚者所谤，坐免归。
远耿介无私曲，居人间，绝请谒，不造诣。
与贵贱书疏，抗礼如一。
其所会遇，未尝以颜色下人，以此多为俗士所恶。
其清公实为天下第一。
居数郡，见可欲终不变其心，妻子饥寒，如下贫者。
及去东阳归家，经年岁口不言荣辱，士类益以此多之。
其轻财好义，周人之急，言不虚妄，盖天性也。
每戏语人云： 卿能得我一妄语，则谢卿以一缣。
众共伺之，不能记也。
后复起为征西谘议参军、中抚司马。
普通二年，卒，时年五十二。
高祖厚赠赐之。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：前史有循吏，何哉？
translation: 
He Yuan should be promoted to a glorious position in the court in recognition of his performance in the county.
He should be given the title of Minister of Huangmen, who is responsible for serving people from far away.
He Yuan immediately returned to the county and was appointed as the chief historian of Renwei.
Soon, He Yuan left the capital and was appointed General Xinwu to supervise Wu County.
In Wujun, he often made mistakes due to drinking and was moved to Dongyang Prefecture.
During He Yuan's tenure, he hated the powerful and wealthy families and treated them as enemies, while treating poor and weak families as his own children. Therefore, those rich and powerful families were particularly afraid of He Yuan.
He Yuan served in Shuyang for more than a year, but was dismissed from his post and returned home because he was slandered by those he had punished.
He Yuan was an upright man and did not attach personal importance to himself. He was in the officialdom, cut off personal requests, and did not meet with powerful people himself.
When He Su writes letters to others, he treats them with the same equal courtesy, no matter how high or low they are.
When he met people at gatherings, he would not show a humble expression to flatter and flatter people, so He Yuan was often hated and hated by some mediocre and shallow scholar-bureaucrats.
He Yuan's integrity and justice are truly the first in the world.
He served in several counties. Although he saw those things he wanted, he still would not change his moral integrity and pursue greed. He Yuan's wife and children suffered from hunger and cold, and their lives were similar to those of the poorest people.
He Yuan was dismissed from Shuyang and returned home for a long time, but he never talked about his personal honor and disgrace. Therefore, the scholars respected He Yuan even more.
He Yuan values ​​righteousness over wealth. He is willing to help others in emergencies and does not talk empty words. This is actually his nature.
He Yuan often said to people jokingly: If you can find a false statement from me, then I will reward you with a piece of string.
Many people were watching and waiting in secret, but still couldn't find him.
Later, He Yuan was appointed to join the army to consult on the expedition to the west and to pacify Sima.
Ordinary two years later, He Yuan died at the age of fifty-two.
Emperor Gaozu gave his family very generous gifts.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: There are biographies of Xun officials in the history books of previous dynasties. What is the reason?

summary:
summary line 4: Shen Zhen, from Wukang, gained fame for pleading for his uncle Shen Chang's pardon. He served under Prince Jingling, punishing bullies according to law and earning respect. He built roads efficiently, completed construction projects under budget, and as Jiande magistrate, ordered planting of mulberry, persimmon, pear, and chestnut trees. He later persuaded Chen Bozhi to surrender to Gaozu during the siege of Yingcheng. As Yuyao magistrate, he curbed powerful families who sought favors, punishing those who came to the yamen without proper cause. However, he used his position to take revenge on wealthy families who had humiliated him when he was poor selling pottery, causing fear and complaints among local gentry. He maintained personal honesty throughout. He was killed by robbers at age fifty-nine, with many believing Xiao Yingda responsible.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
范述曾，字子玄，吴郡钱唐人也。
幼好学，从余杭吕道惠受《五经》，略通章句。
道惠学徒常有百数，独称述曾曰： 此子必为王者师。
齐文惠太子、竟陵文宣王幼时，高帝引述曾为之师友。
起家为宋晋熙王国侍郎。
齐初，至南郡王国郎中令，迁尚书主客郎、太子步兵校尉，带开阳令。
述曾为人謇谔，在宫多所谏争，太子虽不能全用，然亦弗之罪也。
竟陵王深相器重，号为 周舍 。
时太子左卫率沈约亦以述曾方汲黯。
以父母年老，乞还就养，乃拜中散大夫。
明帝即位，除游击将军，出为永嘉太守。
为政清平，不尚威猛，民俗便之。
所部横阳县，山谷险峻，为逋逃所聚，前后二千石讨捕莫能息。
translation: 
Fan Shuzeng, courtesy name Zixuan, was born in Qiantang Dynasty, Wu County.
He has been interested in learning since childhood. He studied the Five Classics under Yuhang Lu Daohui and became proficient in the interpretation of the Five Classics.
Lu Daohui once had hundreds of students, but he only praised Fan Shuzeng, saying: This man will definitely become the emperor's teacher.
When Prince Wenhui of Qi and King Wenxuan of Jingling were young, Fan Shu once selected them as their mentors.
Fan Shuzeng first became an official and served as the minister of the Xi Kingdom of Song and Jin Dynasties.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, Fan Shu once served as the doctor of the kingdom, and then moved to the post of chief guest of Shangshu and the captain of the prince's infantry, leading Kaiyang Ling.
Fan Shu was an upright and outspoken man, and he gave advice on many matters in the palace. Although the prince could not adopt all of them, he did not blame him.
King Jingling thought highly of Fan Shuzeng and called him Zhou She.
At that time, Prince Zuowei led Shen Yue to compare Fan Shuzeng with Mo Dai's Yubi.
Because his parents were old, Fan Shu once requested to return to his hometown to support his parents, so the imperial court appointed Jian Shubi as the doctor of Zhongsan.
After ascending to the throne, Fan Shu was promoted to a guerrilla general and left the capital to serve as the governor of Chengsai.
Fan Shu once governed the government with integrity and fairness, and did not advocate the use of majestic and ferocious methods to govern the people, so the people felt comfortable.
The area where Yongtai belongs to is a difficult area with high mountains, deep valleys, and dangerous terrain. It is a place where fleeing criminals gather. Even the former prefects used conquest methods, but none of them were able to pacify the area.

summary:
summary line 5: Fan Shuzeng, from Qiantang, studied the Five Classics under Lu Daohui, who predicted he would become the emperor's teacher. He served as mentor to Prince Wenhui and King Wenxuan of Jingling. As governor of Chengsei, he governed with integrity without harsh methods. In Yongjia County, he refused gifts and the customary 200,000 yuan given to outgoing prefects. When leaving, his luggage was so simple no cart was needed, and the people wept for miles. Emperor Gaozu appointed him Taizhong doctor with silk rewards, but Fan donated all his salary and died in poverty at age seventy-nine.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
时曼容已致仕，故频以外职处恒，令其得养焉。
齐末，始为尚书都官郎，仍为卫军记室参军。
高祖践阼，迁国子博士，父忧去职。
服阕，为车骑谘议参军，累迁司空长史、中书侍郎、前军将军、兼《五经》博士，与吏部尚书徐勉、中书侍郎周舍，总知五礼事。
出为永阳内史，在郡清洁，治务安静。
郡民何贞秀等一百五十四人诣州言状，湘州刺史以闻。
诏勘有十五事为吏民所怀，高祖善之，征为新安太守。
在郡清恪，如永阳时。
民赋税不登者，辄以太守田米助之。
郡多麻苎，家人乃至无以为绳，其厉志如此。
属县始新、遂安、海宁，并同时生为立祠。
征为国子博士，领长水校尉。
时始兴内史何远累著清绩，高祖诏擢为黄门侍郎，俄迁信武将军、监吴郡。
恒自以名辈素在远前，为吏俱称廉白，远累见擢，恒迁阶而已，意望不满，多托疾居家。
寻求假到东阳迎妹丧，因留会稽筑宅，自表解，高祖诏以为豫章内史，恒乃出拜。
治书侍御史虞爵奏曰：
translation: 
At that time, Fu Manrong had already retired and lived at home, so the imperial court frequently allowed Fu Qu to work outside the capital so that he could support his father.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, Fu Qu began to serve as a minister, Du Guanlang, and then joined the army in the Wei Army Record Office.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Fuqu moved to the post of Doctor Guozi. He left his post to mourn his father's death.
After the period of mourning, he was appointed as a chariot and cavalry consultant to join the army. After his meritorious service, he was moved to the post of Sikong Changshi, Zhongshu Shilang, a former army general, and a doctor of the Five Classics. He, together with Xu Mian, the Minister of Civil Affairs, and Zhou She, the Zhongshu Shilang, were in charge of five kinds of etiquette affairs.
Fu Qu came out of the capital to serve as the internal history of Yongyang. During his tenure in the county, he was honest and honest, handled government affairs well, and the county was stable.
One hundred and fifty-four people, including He Zhenhu, a commoner in the county, went to the state capital to report on the good governance of the county. The fishery governor reported the matter to the court.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to review and found out that Fuqu had done a good job in fifteen matters, which made the people and county officials grateful. The chief minister thought that Daluo was talented and recruited him as the governor of Qixuan.
When he served in the county, he was upright and rigorous, just like when he served in Yongyang.
When the people were unable to pay taxes, Fuqu often used his own salary to help them pay.
Qu'an County is rich in ramie, but Fuqu's family does not have ramie to spin rope. He maintains his integrity and sharpens his will to such an extent.
Shixin, Sui'an, Haining and other places under Xin'an County all built shrines for him at the same time.
Fu Qu was recruited as a doctor of Guozi and the commander of the water school.
At that time, He Yuanlei, the internal history of Shixing, was known for his clean and honest political achievements. Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to promote He Yuan to the position of Minister of Huangmen, and soon he was moved to General Xinwu and Supervisor of Wu County.
Fu Qu believed that his reputation and status were always above He Yuan's. Both of them had a reputation for being honest and upright in their official careers. He Yuan had been promoted many times, but he had only been promoted step by step through the official ranks. Therefore, he felt that his wishes could not be fulfilled and often stayed at home due to illness.
Soon, Fu Qu asked for leave and went to Shuyang to pick up his sister's coffin. He then stayed in Kuaiji to build a house and petitioned to be dismissed. Gao Dan issued an edict to tell the internal history of Luozuo, and Dazuo came out to accept the official position.
Yu Zhan, the official in charge of writing and serving as the imperial censor, went up to the table and said:

summary:
summary line 6: Qiu Zhongfu, from Wucheng, was called a "thousand-mile horse" by his grandfather. Poor and unable to support his family, he advised thieves in Sanwu, successfully avoiding exposure. He later served as Huling magistrate with a reputation for capability, resisting insults from the favored minister Lu Wenxian. During Wang Jingze's rebellion, he drained canal water to block rebel ships, contributing to their defeat. As Shanyin magistrate, he was so effective that people sang "Two Fu Shen Liu are not as good as one Qiu," surpassing previous magistrates. Though involved in corruption during Qi's chaos, he escaped punishment through a pardon. Under Emperor Gaozu, he served as Shanzhao magistrate again, known for handling complex affairs wisely. He wrote twenty volumes of "Imperial Code" and other works.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
顷之，免为中散大夫。
明帝将废立，欲引谦为心膂，使兼卫尉，给甲仗百人，谦不愿处际会，辄散甲士，帝虽不罪，而弗复任焉。
出为南中郎司马。
东昏永元元年，迁囗囗大夫。
天监六年，出为辅国将军、零陵太守，已衰老，犹强力为政，吏民安之。
先是，郡多虎暴，谦至绝迹。
及去官之夜，虎即害居民。
谦为郡县，常勤劝课农桑，务尽地利，收入常多于邻境。
九年，以年老，征为光禄大夫。
既至，高祖嘉其清洁，甚礼异焉。
每朝见，犹请剧职自效。
高祖笑曰： 朕使卿智，不使卿力。
十四年，诏曰： 光禄大夫孙谦，清慎有闻，白首不怠，高年旧齿，宜加优秩。
可给亲信二十人，并给扶。
谦自少及老，历二县五郡，所在廉洁。
translation: 
Soon, Sun Qian was exonerated and appointed as a doctor in Zhongsan.
Emperor Ming wanted to appoint Sun Qian as his confidant, so he ordered Sun Qian to serve as a guard and assigned him a hundred armored guards. Sun Qian did not want to be involved in the power struggle and dismissed the guards on his own initiative. Although Emperor Ming did not blame him, he no longer entrusted him with important responsibilities from then on.
Sun Qian left the capital and served as Nanzhonglang Sima.
In the first year of Yongyuan, the Marquis of Donghun, Sun Qian moved to the post of official of Kou Kou.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, Sun Qian came to the capital to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Lingling. He was old and frail, but he still worked hard to handle political affairs, and the officials and people felt comfortable.
Before Sun Qian took office, there were many tigers in the county, which often hurt people and animals. After Sun Qian took office, the tigers disappeared.
On the night when Sun Qian resigned, the tiger came out again to harm the local people.
Sun Qian served as county magistrate, and he often encouraged and urged the people to cultivate farmland, plant mulberry and raise silkworms, and strive to make the most of the land. The people under him often earned more than those in neighboring counties.
In the ninth year of Tianjian's reign, because Sun Qian was old, the imperial court recruited him as Guanglu doctor.
After Sun Qian returned to Beijing to take up his post, Emperor Gaozu greatly admired Sun Qian's integrity and treated him with great etiquette and great favor.
However, Sun Qian still asked to take on difficult tasks to serve the court every time he met with the court.
Gaozu smiled and said to him: I want to use your wisdom, not your strength.
In the 14th year of Tianjian, Gaozu Xia Shao said: Sun Qian, the Guanglu doctor, is honest, loyal, and very famous. He has not slackened off until his old age. This old and virtuous veteran should be given a generous salary.
Twenty confidants should be allocated and given support.
Sun Qian served as the governor of two counties and five counties from young to old, and he always maintained integrity.

summary:
summary line 7: Sun Qian, from Dongguan, was known for ability from age seventeen. He farmed to support his siblings after his father's death. As Jurong magistrate, he was honest with a strong memory. As governor of Badong and Jianping counties in the Three Gorges, he refused soldiers, instead extending benevolence to barbarians who surrendered and offered treasures, which he refused. He exempted officials and people from bearing official salaries. After three years, the counties were peaceful. He served in multiple positions, always maintaining integrity, often borrowing government carports to live in. As Lingling prefect, tigers disappeared during his tenure but returned after he left. He encouraged farming and sericulture, with his people earning more than neighboring counties. At over ninety, he was as strong as a fifty-year-old, arriving at court before others. He cared for his sick brother and took in the homeless Liu Rong, burying him properly. He died at ninety-two in Tianjian's fifteenth year.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
其佗事率多如此。
迹虽似伪，而能委曲用意焉。
车服尤弊素，器物无铜漆。
江左多水族，甚贱，远每食不过干鱼数片而已。
然性刚严，吏民多以细事受鞭罚者，遂为人所讼，征下廷尉，被劾数十条。
当时士大夫坐法，皆不受立，远度己无赃，就立三七日不款，犹以私藏禁仗除名。
后起为镇南将军、武康令。
愈厉廉节，除淫祀，正身率职，民甚称之。
太守王彬巡属县，诸县盛供帐以待焉，至武康，远独设糗水而已。
彬去，远送至境，进斗酒双鹅为别。
彬戏曰： 卿礼有过陆纳，将不为古人所笑乎？
translation: 
The same goes for most other things.
Although this kind of behavior seems a bit hypocritical, it shows his careful and detailed intentions.
He Yuan's carriages and horses were extremely shabby, and his clothes were very simple. Among his utensils were no exquisite and valuable products such as copperware or lacquerware.
There are many aquatic products in Jiangzuo and the prices are very cheap, but He Yuan only eats a few pieces of dried fish every time.
However, He Yuan was upright and stern by nature, and many officials and common people were whipped and punished for minor offenses. So someone reported He Yuan to the court, and He Yuan was conscripted to the capital and handed over to the court for interrogation. He was found guilty of dozens of crimes.
At that time, the scholar-bureaucrats who committed crimes and were convicted were not subject to the criminal law of the station test. He Yuan thought that he had not taken bribes and had withstood the punishment of the station test for twenty-one days. Even though he refused to plead guilty, he was still expelled for the crime of hiding the emperor's ceremonial guard.
Later, He Yuan was appointed as General Zhennan and Ling Wukang.
He further strengthened his integrity, eliminated all kinds of unethical sacrifices, was impartial and devoted to his duties, and the people praised him very much.
The prefect Wang Bin inspected his counties, and each county held a grand banquet to entertain Wang Bin. When he arrived in Wukang, He Yuan only prepared dry food and tea.
When Wang Ao left, He Yuan sent him to the border and presented him with a bucket of wine and a goose as a farewell farewell to Wang Bin.
Wang Bin and He Yuan joked: In the Jin Dynasty, Lu You gave gifts with a bucket of wine and a plate of venison. If your gift exceeds that of Lu Na, will you be laughed at by the ancients?

summary:
summary line 8: He Yuan, from Donghai, participated in Xiao Baoxuan's failed rebellion, fleeing to various protectors before surrendering to Wei. He eventually reached Gaozu's rebel army, who praised him as an outstanding man. As Wuchang prefect, he changed his conduct, refusing gifts and buying cold water from wells in summer. His carriages and clothes were shabby, and he ate only dried fish despite cheap aquatic products. However, he whipped many for minor offenses, leading to accusations and interrogation. He withstood twenty-one days of station test punishment without confessing, but was expelled for hiding the emperor's ceremonial guard. As Wukang magistrate, he eliminated unethical sacrifices and served only dry food and tea to inspecting prefect Wang Bin, presenting a bucket of wine and a goose as farewell. He was promoted to Xuancheng prefect, an unusual promotion from county magistrate. He built roads and organized city warehouses, using his salary to pay taxes for the poorest. Wherever he served, people built shrines for him. He was dismissed from Shuyang after being slandered, but never discussed personal honor or disgrace. He died at fifty-two in the second year of Putong.

Chunk 25: 
original: 
世使然也。
汉武役繁奸起，循平不能，故有苛酷诛戮以胜之，亦多怨滥矣。
梁兴，破觚为圆，斫雕为朴，教民以孝悌，劝之以农桑，于是桀黠化为由余，轻薄变为忠厚。
淳风已洽，民自知禁。
尧舜之民，比屋可封，信矣。
若夫酷吏，于梁无取焉。
translation: 
It is the times that have prompted this situation.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, corvee labor was heavy and all kinds of traitors appeared one after another. Appointing good officials and adopting the governance methods of the Qing Dynasty could not stop traitors. Therefore, cruel officials were appointed and executions were used to stop traitors. However, at the same time, the indiscriminate use of punishments also caused a lot of resentment.
With the rise of the Liang Dynasty, harsh punishments and laws were eliminated in favor of simplicity, glitz and glamor were eliminated in favor of simplicity, the people were educated with the principles of filial piety and brotherhood, and encouraged to farm and grow mulberry trees. As a result, fierce and cunning people became sages like You Yu, and frivolous people became loyal and kind people.
Honest folk customs have been generally formed, and people naturally and consciously abide by the prohibitions.
It is true that in the days of Yao and Shun, every family had a man of high virtue who could be given the title of prince.
As for cruel officials, they were not chosen as biographies in the Liang Dynasty.

summary:
summary line 9: Yao Cha noted that previous dynasties included biographies of good officials because the times demanded them. During Emperor Wu of Han, heavy corvée and widespread treachery necessitated cruel officials, but excessive punishment caused resentment. With Liang's rise, harsh laws were eliminated, simplicity replaced glitz, people were educated in filial piety and brotherhood, and farming encouraged. Consequently, even fierce people became virtuous, and honest customs formed naturally. No biographies of cruel officials were included in Liang's records.

