Summary line 0
Span: 0-30 (score=0.4741)

original:
夫人宵天地之貌，怀五常之性，聪明精粹，有生之最灵者也。
爪牙不足以供耆欲，趋走不足以避利害，无毛羽以御寒暑，必将役物以为养，用仁智而不恃力，此其所以为贵也。
故不仁爱则不能群，不能群则不胜物，不胜物则养不足。
群而不足，争心将作，上圣卓然先行敬让博爱之德者，众心说而从之。
从之成群，是为君矣；归而往之，是为王矣。
《洪范》曰： 天子作民父母，为天下王。
圣人取类以正名，而谓群为父母，明仁、爱、德、让，王道之本也。
爱待敬而不败，德须威而久立，故制礼以崇敬，作刑以明威也。
圣人既躬明哲之性，必通天地之心，制礼作教，立法设刑，动缘民情，而则天象地。
故曰：先王立礼， 则天之明，因地之性 也。
刑罚威狱，以类天之震曜杀戮也；温慈惠和，以效天之生殖长育也。
《书》云 天秩有礼 ， 天讨有罪 。
故圣人因天秩而制五礼，因天讨而作五刑。
大刑用甲兵，其次用斧钺；中刑用刀锯，其次用钻凿；薄刑用鞭扑。
大者陈诸原野，小者致之市朝，其所繇来者上矣。
自黄帝有涿鹿之战以定火灾，颛顼有共工之陈以定水害。
唐、虞之际，至治之极，犹流共工，放讠雚兜，窜三苗，殛鲧，然后天下服。
夏有甘扈之誓，殷、周以兵定天下矣。
天下既定，戢臧干戈，教以文德，而犹立司马之官，设六军之众，因井田而制军赋。
地方一里为井，井十为通，通十为成，成方十里；成十为终，终十为同，同方百里；同十为封，封十为畿，畿方千里。
有税有赋。
税以足食，赋以足兵。
故四井为邑，四邑为丘。
丘，十六井也，有戎马一匹，牛三头。
四丘为甸。
甸，六十四井也，有戎马四匹，兵车一乘，牛十二头，甲士三人，卒七十二人，干戈备具，是谓乘马之法。
一同百里，提封万井，除山川沈斥，城池邑居，园囿术路，三千六百井，定出赋六千四百井，戎马四百匹，兵车百乘，此卿大夫采地之大者也，是谓百乘之家。
一封三百一十六里，提封十万井，定出赋六万四千井，戎马四千匹，兵车千乘，此诸侯之大者也，是谓千乘之国。
天子畿方千里，提封百万井，定出赋六十四万井，戎马四万匹，兵车万乘，故称万乘之主。
戎马、车徒、干戈素具，春振旅以搜，夏拔舍以苗，秋治兵以狝，冬大阅以狩，皆于农隙以讲事焉。
五国为属，属有长；十国为连，连有帅；三十国为卒，卒有正；二百一十四为州，州有牧。

translation:
Humans imitate the shapes of heaven and earth, possess the five constant natures of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith. They are intelligent, sensible, meticulous, and simple. They are the most spiritual among living animals.
Human hands and feet are not enough to provide for hobbies and desires, running is not enough to avoid harm, and there are no furs and feathers to protect against cold and heat. Therefore, humans must use all things to feed themselves. They use wisdom instead of relying on force. This is the reason why humans are noble.
Therefore, if people are not benevolent, they cannot form a group. If they cannot form a group, they cannot defeat external objects. If they cannot defeat external objects, their offerings will not be sufficient.
If a group is formed but the material is still not sufficient, the mentality of competition will arise. The saints of the previous generation deliberately took the lead in emphasizing the morality of respect, humility and charity, and the people were happy and followed them.
When the people who follow them form a group, they become monarchs; when everyone vie to join them, they become kings. "Shang Shu.
"Hong Fan" said: The emperor becomes the parents of the people and the emperor of the world.
The saints choose similar titles to rectify their status and call the king their parents. They understand that benevolence and humility are the foundation of kingship.
Benevolence will not be corrupted if it relies on reverence, and kindness must be majestic to survive for a long time. Therefore, etiquette is formulated to promote reverence, and criminal laws are formulated to show majesty.
Since the sage himself has the character of discernment, he must be familiar with the thoughts of heaven and earth, formulate rituals and education, establish legal systems and set up criminal laws, and always comply with the people's sentiments, so that he can manage the earth according to the laws of heaven.
Therefore, it is said that the previous kings established the ritual system based on the gods from heaven. According to the nature of the earth.
Prisons of punishment and majesty are used to imitate the killing power of God with thunder and lightning; gentleness, kindness, generosity and harmony are used to imitate God's ability to grow and nourish all things.
"Shangshu" says that Heaven rewards polite people according to their rank, and Heaven punishes sinful people.
Therefore, the sages formulated the five rites of good fortune, misfortune, military service, military affairs, and good fortune according to the order of heaven, and formulated the five punishments according to the principle of punishment from heaven.
For large punishments, armor is used, for lighter punishments, axes and irons are used; for medium punishments, knives and saws are used, for lighter punishments, drills are used; for small punishments, whips are used.
Large-scale punishments required the corpses to be displayed in the plains and wilderness, while small-scale punishments required public display in the streets and courts. This situation has a long history.
Since the time of the Yellow Emperor, the Battle of Zhuolu put down the Yandi Rebellion, and during the Zhuanxu Period, the Battle of Gonggong put down the Gonggong Rebellion.
During the reign of Tang Yu, he was able to bring peace to the world by offering sacrifices, and he still exiled Gonggong, banished Huandou, expelled Sanmiao, and killed Gun, and then the world surrendered.
In the Xia Dynasty, Youqi and the Youhu clan fought in Gan, and it was not until the Yin and Zhou dynasties that they used military force to pacify the world.
After the world was stabilized, weapons were collected and educated with etiquette and morality. However, the official position of Sima was also established, six armies were set up, mine fields were divided, and military taxes were formulated.
One mile of land area is divided into one well, ten wells form one link, ten links form one tenth, one tenth has a square of ten miles; ten points form one end, ten ends form one, and one has a hundred miles square; ten together form a seal, ten seals form a ji, and a ji has a thousand miles square.
If you have land to rent, you have to pay for soldiers.
Land is rented to meet food needs, and military taxes are used to meet military needs.
Therefore, four wells form a town, and four towns form a hill.
Qiu is the sixteen wells. There is one military horse and three oxen.
Four hills form a meadow.
There are sixty-four wells in Yidian, four military horses, one military chariot, twelve oxen, three soldiers, seventy-two soldiers, and weapons. The method of cultivating is called horse riding.
There are hundreds of miles together, with a total of ten thousand wells. Excluding mountains, rivers, salty land, water depressions, cities, villages, and gardens and avenues, there are a total of 3,600 wells, 6,400 wells required to pay military taxes, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots. This is the largest among the official lands of Qing officials, and is called the House of Hundreds of Vehicles.
One letter is 316 miles long, with a total of 100,000 wells, of which 64,000 wells are required to pay military tribute, 4,000 soldiers and horses, and 1,000 chariots. This is the largest among the princes, and is called the Kingdom of Thousand Chariots.
The emperor's royal territory is thousands of miles square, with a million wells in total, 640,000 wells required to pay military tribute, 40,000 soldiers and horses, and 10,000 chariots, so he is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
The soldiers and carriage drivers were always well prepared with weapons. They hunted in the spring to reorganize the troops, pulled weeds in the summer to repair the camp, trained and hunted in the autumn, and conducted a grand review of the army during the hunting in the winter. They all gave lectures and training during the farming season.
The five feudal states are one genus, and each vassal has an officer; the ten feudal states are one company, and each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms are one pawn, and each pawn has an official; the two hundred and ten kingdoms are one state, and each state has a pastoral officer.

summary:
Humans are considered the most spiritual of living beings, possessing the five constant natures of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith, and imitating the shapes of heaven and earth. However, lacking natural defenses like fur or speed, humans must rely on wisdom and cooperation to survive. Without benevolence, they cannot form groups, and without groups, they cannot overcome external threats. Ancient saints established morality, rituals, and laws to maintain order, with kingship rooted in benevolence and humility. Rituals and punishments were created to imitate divine order, with the five rites and five punishments derived from heavenly principles. Military organization evolved from ancient times, with systems of land division and military taxes, such as the well-field system, supporting armies of varying sizes, from the House of Hundred Chariots to the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots. Military training occurred during seasonal hunts, and feudal states were organized under officers, with regular reviews of troops.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 42-73 (score=0.4654)

original:
孔子伤焉，曰： 以不教民战，是谓弃之。
故称子路曰： 由也，千乘之国，可使治其赋也。
而子路亦曰： 千乘之国，摄虖大国之间，加之以师旅，因之以饥馑，由也为之，比及三年，可使有勇，且知方也。
治其赋兵教以礼谊之谓也。
春秋之后，灭弱吞小，并为战国，稍增讲武之礼，以为戏乐，用相夸视。
而秦更名角抵，先王之礼没于淫乐中矣。雄桀之士因势辅时，作为权诈以相倾覆，吴有孙武，齐有孙膑，魏有吴起，秦有商鞅，皆擒敌立胜，垂著篇籍。
当此之时，合纵连衡，转相攻伐，代为雌雄。
齐愍以技击强，魏惠以武卒奋，秦昭以锐士胜。
世方争于功利，而驰说者以孙、吴为宗。
时唯孙卿明于王道，而非之曰： 彼孙、吴者，上势利而贵变诈；施于暴乱昏嫚之国，君臣有间，上下离心，政谋不良，故可变而诈也。
夫仁人在上，为下所卬，犹子弟之卫父兄，若手足之扞头目，何可当也？
邻国望我，欢若亲戚，芬若椒兰，顾视其上，犹焚灼仇雠。
人情岂肯为其所恶而攻其所好哉？
故以桀攻桀，犹有巧拙；以桀诈尧，若卵投石，夫何幸之有！
《诗》曰： 武王载旆，有虔秉钺，如火烈烈，则莫我敢遏。
言以仁谊绥民者，无敌于天下也。
若齐之技击，得一首则受赐金。
事小敌脆，则偷可用也；事巨敌坚，则焕然离矣。
是亡国之兵也。
魏氏武卒，衣三属之甲，操十二石之弩，负矢五十个，置戈其上，冠胄带剑，嬴三日之粮，日中而趋百里，中试则复其户，利其田宅。
如此，则其地虽广，其税必寡，其气力数年而衰。
是危国之兵也。
秦人，其生民也狭厄，其使民也酷烈。
劫之以势，隐之以厄，狃之以赏庆，道之以刑罚，使其民所以要利于上者，非战无由也。
功赏相长，五甲首而隶五家，是最为有数，故能四世有胜于天下。
然皆干赏蹈利之兵，庸徒鬻卖之道耳，未有安制矜节之理也。
故虽地广兵强，鳃鳃常恐天下之一合而共轧己也。
至乎齐桓、晋文之兵，可谓入其域而有节制矣。然犹未本仁义之统也。
故齐之技击不可以遇魏之武卒，魏之武卒不可以直秦之锐士，秦之锐士不可以当桓、文之节制，桓、文之节制不可以敌汤、武之仁义。
故曰： 善师者不陈，善陈者不战，善战者不败，善败者不亡。
若夫舜修百僚，咎繇作士，命以 蛮夷猾夏，寇贼奸轨 ，而刑无所用，所谓善师不陈者也。
汤、武征伐，陈师誓众，而放擒桀、纣，所谓善陈不战者也。

translation:
Confucius felt sad about this and said: To fight with untrained people is to abandon them.
Therefore, he praised Zilu and said: Zhong Yuan, when you go to a country with a thousand military chariots, you can put him in charge of the army.
Zilu also said: A country with a thousand chariots is sandwiched between several big countries. It is invaded by armies outside and famine inside. I will govern it. After three years, everyone will have courage and understand the truth.
This means that in managing taxes and the army, etiquette and righteousness must also be taught.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, weak countries were annexed and merged to form the Warring States Period. Some martial arts etiquette was slightly added as a game for fun and to show off to each other.
During the Qin Dynasty, it was renamed "Jiao Da". The etiquette of the previous kings was drowned in unrighteous music. Extraordinary and outstanding people assisted the situation according to the current situation. They used cunning and cunning to compete with each other. Wu had Sun Wu, Qi had Sun Bin, Wei had Wu Qi, and Qin had Shang Yang.
At this time, they joined forces vertically and horizontally, and turned to attack each other, competing for hegemony.
King Min of Qi became strong with the martial arts of Qi, King Hui of Wei worked hard with the soldiers of Wei, and King Zhao of Qin won with the sharp soldiers of Qin.
The secular world is fighting for utilitarianism, and the lobbyists regard Sun Bin and Wu Qi as the objects of respect.
At that time, Sun Qing was the only one who understood the royal way, so he criticized this situation and said: People like Sun Bin and Wu Qi advocate power and wealth and value cunning and cunning; when applied to a country that is violent, chaotic, ignorant and careless, it creates a gap between the monarch and his ministers, disunity between the superiors and subordinates, and poor political planning, so they can be cunning and cunning.
Those who are kind above are admired by those below, just like sons and brothers guarding their father and brothers, hands and feet guarding the brain and eyes. What can be compared with them?
Neighboring countries look at us from a distance, as happy as relatives, as fragrant as pepper orchid. Looking back at their king, it is like seeing fire in the eyes of enemies.
Is it human nature to be willing to attack what he likes for the sake of what he hates?
Therefore, using Jie to attack Jie can still be opportunistic; using Jie to deceive Yao is like using an egg to touch a stone, there is no chance of luck!
"Poetry" says: King Wu holds the flag and holds the weapon religiously, as fierce as fire, no one dares to stop us.
It is said that those who appease the people with benevolence and righteousness will be invincible in the world.
For example, Qi State competed in fencing skills, and received a bounty for each head.
If the military scale is small and the enemy is weak, this technique can be used. If the military scale is huge and the enemy is strong, it will be dispersed.
This is the army of a subjugated nation.
The Wei family used armed soldiers, wearing three layers of bell armor, wielding twelve-stone crossbows, carrying fifty arrows, putting their swords on top of their luggage, wearing helmets and carrying swords, carrying three days of food, and traveled hundreds of miles in one day. If he passed the exam, he would be exempted from taxes and given the benefits of land and housing.
If this is the case, then although their country's land is vast, their tax revenue must be very small, and their human strength will weaken after a few years.
This is an army that endangers the country.
The people of Qin were very narrow-minded in their education, but cruel and violent in their service.
He uses power to threaten the people, tortures them with poverty, makes them greedy for rewards, and uses punishment to guide the people, so that his people will be rewarded for their merits and will have no other way out if they don't go to war.
Merits and rewards increase mutually. Those who can get the heads of five people wearing bell armor can enslave five families. This is the most efficient, so it can take four generations to dominate the world.
However, the army is all seeking rewards and pursuing profits. It is a way for mediocre people to do business, but there is no stable system to maintain integrity.
Therefore, even if the land is vast and the army is strong, he is always afraid that the world will work together to suppress him.
As for the armies of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, it can be said that they were restrained to a certain extent, but they still did not follow the principles of benevolence and righteousness.
Therefore, Qi's method of stabbing cannot be used to withstand Wei's armed soldiers. Wei's armed soldiers cannot withstand Qin's elite soldiers. Qin's elite soldiers cannot be compared with the temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin. The temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin cannot compete with the benevolent and righteous troops of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou.
Therefore it is said: Those who are good at commanding an army do not set up formations; those who are good at setting up formations do not fight; those who are good at fighting will not fail; those who are good at losing will not perish.
As for Shun's administration of hundreds of officials, he appointed Jiu Yao as the official in charge of justice and told him that the barbarians were disrupting China and were a group of people who looted and killed and committed crimes, and the criminal law had no effect. This means that those who are good at commanding the army do not need to form formations.
King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou went on an expedition and arranged their armies for mobilization before the war. Jie and Zhou were captured, which meant that those who were good at arranging formations did not fight.

summary:
After the Zhou Dynasty declined, Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin rose as hegemons, but their methods deviated from the former kings' legal system. Later, wars multiplied, and Confucius lamented the lack of proper training and righteousness. During the Warring States period, strategists like Sun Wu, Sun Bin, Wu Qi, and Shang Yang emerged, focusing on cunning and power. Sun Qing criticized these approaches, arguing that true invincibility comes from benevolence and righteousness, not mere tactics. He contrasted the armies of Qi, Wei, and Qin, noting that while Qin's elite soldiers dominated, they lacked moral integrity. The ultimate ideal was the benevolent army of King Tang and King Wu, which did not need to fight to prevail. The Han Dynasty, under Gaozu, combined civil and military governance, but later emperors struggled to maintain proper military and legal systems.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 108-138 (score=0.3937)

original:
五刑之属三千，盖多于平邦中典五百章，所谓刑乱邦用重典者也。
春秋之时，王道浸坏，教化不行，子产相郑而铸刑书。
晋叔向非之曰： 昔先王议事以制，不为刑辟。
惧民之有争心也，犹不可禁御，是故闲之以谊，纠之以政，行之以礼，守之以信，奉之以仁；制为禄位以劝其从，严断刑罚以威其淫。
惧其未也，故诲之以忠，竦之以行，教之以务，使之以和，临之以敬，莅之以强，断之以刚。
犹求圣哲之上，明察之官，忠信之长，慈惠之师。
民于是乎可任使也，而不生祸乱。
民知有辟，则不忌于上，并有争心，以征于书，而侥幸以成之，弗可为矣。
夏有乱政而作禹刑，商有乱政而作汤刑，周有乱政而作九刑。
三辟之兴，皆叔世也。
今吾子相郑国，制参辟，铸刑书，将以靖民，不亦难乎！
《诗》曰： 仪式刑文王之德，日靖四方。 又曰： 仪刑文王，万邦作孚。 如是，何辟之有？
民知争端矣，将弃礼而征于书。
锥刀之末，将尽争之，乱狱滋丰，货赂并行。
终子之世，郑其败虖！
子产报曰： 若吾子之言，侨不材，不能及子孙，吾以救世也。
偷薄之政，自是滋矣。
孔子伤之，曰： 导之以德，齐之以礼，有耻且格；导之以政，齐之以刑，民免而无耻。 礼乐不兴，则刑罚不中；刑罚不中，则民无所错手足。
孟氏使阳肤为士师，问于曾子，亦曰： 上失其道，民散久矣。
如得其情，则哀矜而勿喜。
陵夷至于战国，韩任申子，秦用商鞅，连相坐之法，造参夷之诛；增加肉刑、大辟，有凿颠、抽胁、镬亨之刑。
至于秦始皇，兼吞战国，遂毁先王之法，灭礼谊之官，专任刑罚，躬操文墨，昼断狱，夜理书，自程决事日县石之一。
而奸邪并生，赭衣塞路，囹圄成市，天下愁怨，溃而叛之。
汉兴，高祖初入关，约法三章曰： 杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
蠲削烦苛，兆民大说。
其后四夷未附，兵革未息，三章之法不足以御奸，于是相国萧何攈摭秦法，取其宜于时者，作律九章。
当孝惠、高后时，百姓新免毒蠚，人欲长幼养老。
萧、曹为相，填以无为，从民之欲而不扰乱，是以衣食滋殖，刑罚用稀。
及孝文即位，躬修玄默，劝趣农桑，减省租赋。
而将相皆旧功臣，少文多质，惩恶亡秦之政，论议务在宽厚，耻言人之过失。
化行天下，告讦之俗易。

translation:
There are a total of 3,000 items for the five punishments, which are more than the 500 items for the medium punishment in peaceful countries. The pursuit is the so-called heavy punishment for countries that control unrest.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, the royal way was gradually destroyed, and political and religious customs were not popularized. When Zichan was the Prime Minister of Zheng, he cast criminal laws on the tripod.
Uncle Xiang of Jin Dynasty accused him and said: In the past, the king first discussed the circumstances of the crime and then determined the crime.
We do not formulate criminal laws because we are afraid that people will have fighting thoughts, so we still cannot prohibit and defend them, so we use morality to prevent them, decrees to supervise, etiquette to demonstrate, integrity to maintain integrity, and benevolence to educate; we enact official and salary status to encourage them to obey, and severely sentence criminals to make them afraid of indulgence.
I am afraid that I will not achieve the goal, so I teach them with loyalty, reward them according to their behavior, teach them with current affairs, use them gently, face them seriously, monitor them with strong force, and sentence them decisively.
In this way, we should also seek princes with extraordinary moral intelligence, officials with insight, loyal and trustworthy elders, and teachers who are kind and kind.
In this way, the people can obey the orders and there will be no disasters or disturbances.
If the people know that there are criminal laws, they will not be afraid of their superiors. If they want to argue, they will seek proof in the criminal code. If they are lucky enough to evade the criminal laws, they will not be able to govern.
The Xia Dynasty established the Yu punishment for those who violated government orders, the Shang Dynasty established the Tang punishment for those who violated government orders, and the Zhou Dynasty established the Nine punishments for those who violated government orders.
The rise of the three generations of criminal law occurred at the end of each generation.
Now that you are governing the state of Zheng, it will be very difficult for you to refer to the criminal laws of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties and cast the criminal laws on the tripod to govern the people!
"Poetry" says: According to King Wen's practice of teaching with virtue, then there will be peace in all directions every day. It also says: If the punishment is like King Wen, then all nations will obey in good faith. In this case, why make criminal laws?
When the people know about the disputes, they will give up etiquette and justice and go to the criminal documents for proof.
Trying to fight for every little thing like the tip of a cone will make the cases of confusion more numerous, and bribery will occur simultaneously.
I am afraid that the state of Zheng will decline while you are alive!
Zichan wrote back and said: According to what you said, Gongsun Qiao has no talent and cannot consider his descendants. I only use this to save the present generation.
Frivolous politics started to spread from here.
Confucius felt sad about this, and said: Use morality to induce them, use rituals to rectify them, and the people will not only have a sense of integrity, but also have people's hearts submissive; use decrees to induce them, use punishments to rectify them, and the people will only be temporarily exempted from sins, but they will not have a sense of shame. If the system of rituals and music does not rise, punishments will not be appropriate; if punishments are not appropriate, the people will not even know where to bind their hands and feet.
Meng appointed Yangfu as a military officer, and he asked Zengzi for advice. Zengzi replied: If the people in high positions fail to regulate things, the people will have long since abandoned their moral principles.
If you can find out the criminal's true feelings, you should show sympathy and mercy instead of being proud of yourself.
The decline of kingship lasted until the Warring States Period. Korea appointed Shen Buhai and Qin appointed Shang Yang. They implemented the law that if one person commits a crime, others will be punished at the same time, and a law was created to kill three tribes; corporal punishment and large-scale subjects were added, including the criminal law of gouging, beating, and cooking.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he annexed all the countries in the war, abolished the laws of the previous emperors, eliminated the official positions of etiquette and justice, exclusively used punishment, personally wrote documents, tried lawsuits during the day, and processed documents at night.
But evil and dishonest people appeared, criminals crowded the roads, prisons were as numerous as markets, and everyone in the world was filled with sorrow and resentment, and rebelled against Qin one after another.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Gaozu first entered Guanzhong and restricted it with three laws, saying: Those who kill should be sentenced to death, and those who harm others and steal should be compensated for their crimes.
Hundreds of millions of people are very happy to be exempted from numerous and harsh criminal laws.
After that, the ethnic minorities from all over the world did not surrender, the war did not stop, and the three laws were not enough to prevent evil people, so the Prime Minister Xiao He collected the laws of the Qin Dynasty, selected the ones that were suitable for the time, and formulated the Nine Chapters of Law.
By the time of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the people had just been freed from the poison of war, and everyone wanted to raise children and serve the elderly.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were appointed prime ministers, and they used inaction strategies to calm the people and obeyed their requests without disturbing them. As a result, the people had abundant food and clothing and few punishments were used.
When Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he personally practiced a quiet and inactive politics, encouraged people to farm and weave, and exempted and exempted land rents and military taxes.
Moreover, his generals and ministers are all former heroes, less gorgeous and more simple. They use the politics of Qin's demise as a lesson. They must be lenient in judgments and judgments, and it is shameful to discuss the faults of others.
Enlightenment became popular all over the world, and the custom of revealing people's privacy changed.

summary:
The text discusses the evolution of criminal law from ancient times. The Zhou Dynasty established three categories of laws—light, medium, and heavy—with specific punishments for different crimes. After the Zhou decline, King Mu expanded the penal code to 3,000 items. During the Spring and Autumn period, Zichan of Zheng cast criminal laws on a tripod, drawing criticism from Jin's Shuxiang, who argued that public knowledge of laws would lead to disputes and decline. Confucius emphasized moral guidance over legal coercion. The Warring States period saw harsh laws under Shen Buhai and Shang Yang, culminating in Qin Shihuang's oppressive regime, which led to widespread rebellion. The Han Dynasty initially simplified laws under Gaozu, but later emperors like Xiaowen and Xiaojing reformed punishments, abolishing corporal punishment and reducing flogging. Despite these efforts, legal complexity grew, and by Emperor Wu's reign, laws became increasingly strict, with over 13,000 capital offenses. Emperor Xuan and Emperor Yuan attempted to simplify laws, but reforms were incomplete.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 204-235 (score=0.3727)

original:
今律、令烦多而不约，自典文者不能分明，而欲罗元元之不逮，斯岂刑中之意哉！
其议律、令可蠲除轻减者，条奏，唯在便安万姓而已。
至成帝河平中，复下诏曰： 《甫刑》云 五刑之属三千，大辟之罚其属二百 ，今大辟之刑千有余条，律、令烦多，百有余万言，奇请它比，日以益滋，自明习者不知所由，欲以晓喻众庶，不亦难乎！
于以罗元元之民，夭绝亡辜，岂不哀哉！
其与中二千石、二千石、博士及明习律、令者议减死刑及可蠲除约省者，令较然易知，条奏。
《书》不云乎？ 惟刑之恤哉！
其审核之，务准古法，朕将尽心览焉。
有司无仲山父将明之材，不能因时广宣主恩，建立明制。为一代之法，而徒钩摭微细，毛举数事，以塞诏而已。
是以大议不立，遂以至今。
议者或曰，法难数变，此庸人不达，疑塞治道，圣智之所常患者也。
故略举汉兴以来，法令稍定而合古便今者。
汉兴之初，虽有约法三章，网漏吞舟之鱼。然其大辟，尚有夷三族之令。
令曰： 当三族者，皆先黥，劓，斩左右止，笞杀之，枭其首，菹其骨肉于市。
其诽谤詈诅者，又先断舌。
故谓之具五刑。
彭越、韩信之属皆受此诛。
至高后元年，乃除三族罪、袄言令。
孝文二年，又诏丞相、太尉、御史： 法者，治之正，所以禁暴而卫善人也。
今犯法者已论，而使无罪之父、母、妻、子、同产坐之及收，朕甚弗取。
其议。
左、右丞相周勃、陈平奏言： 父、母、妻、子、同产相坐及收，所以累其心，使重犯法也。
收之之道，所由来久矣。
臣之愚计，以为如其故便。
文帝复曰： 朕闻之，法正则民悫，罪当则民从。
且夫牧民而道之以善者，吏也；既不能道，又以不正之法罪之，是法反害于民，为暴者也。
朕夫见其便，宜熟计之。
平、勃乃曰： 陛下幸加大惠于天下，使有罪不收，无罪不相坐，甚盛德，臣等所不及也。
臣等谨奉诏，尽除收律、相坐法。
其后，新垣平谋为逆，复行三族之诛。
由是言之，风俗移易，人性相近而习相远，信矣。
夫以孝文之仁，平、勃之知，犹有过刑谬论如此甚也，而况庸材溺于末流者乎？
《周官》有五听、八议、三刺、三宥、三赦之法。

translation:
Nowadays, the laws are complicated and not concise. Those who are in charge of the legal regulations cannot distinguish them clearly, but they want to use them to control civilians who have no knowledge. Is this the proper meaning of criminal law?
He was ordered to discuss the parts of the laws and regulations that could be exempted and mitigated, and to report them one by one, just to make it convenient and stable for the people.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng in Heping, he also went down to Shao and said: "Fuxing" said that there are 3,000 items for the five punishments and 200 items for the death penalty. Now there are more than 1,000 items for the death penalty. The laws are complicated and have more than one million words. In addition to the legal text, additional cases are cited to judge cases, and the number is increasing day by day. People who were originally studying them don't know their origins. Isn't it difficult to understand and enlighten the masses!
Isn't it sad to use it to control kind-hearted people and cause innocent people to perish without knowing their faults?
Orders Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, doctors and people who are familiar with the law to discuss the commutation and exemption of death penalty and the omitted regulations, make them clear and easy to understand, and write them in separate articles.
Doesn’t it say so in the Book? You should be worried about criminal law!
To review and verify, it must be based on ancient laws, and I will do my best to review them.
However, there are no people in the government who are as discerning as Zhongshanfu. They cannot seize the opportunity to widely publicize the Lord's kindness and establish a sage system as the law of the generation. Instead, they only seek trivial things and list matters as small as a hair as a way to deal with Shao Ling.
Therefore, the emperor's theory was not established until now.
Some people who discussed it said that it is difficult for laws to be changed many times. This is because mediocre people do not understand that doubts block the way of governance, which is a common worry for smart people.
Therefore, we will briefly list the legal provisions that have been slightly more certain since the establishment of the Han Dynasty and are in line with ancient law for the convenience of contemporary times.
In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, even though there were three laws restricting them, they were still as omitted as if they missed the outline of a fish that could swallow a boat. However, during the Great Piercing Punishment, there was still a law to exterminate the three tribes.
The decree states: Anyone who kills any of the three tribes must first stab the face with a knife and then apply ink on the face, cut off the nose, chop off the left and right feet, beat him to death with a bamboo board, cut off his head and hang it on a tree, and chop his bones into meat paste in the market.
Among them, anyone who slanders or curses will have his tongue cut off first.
So this is called having the five punishments.
Peng Yue and Han Xin were all killed in this way.
In the first year of Gaohou, the crime and punishment of destroying the three clans and the evil words were exempted.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he ordered the Prime Minister, Taiwei, and Yushi: "The law is the guarantee for governing the world. Use it to prohibit cruelty and protect kind people."
Now that the criminals have been sentenced, I think it is undesirable for the innocent parents, wives, and children to be punished together.
Discuss it.
The left and right prime ministers Zhou Bo and Chen Ping reported: Convicting and arresting his parents, wife, children, and brothers from the same mother together is to severely punish his thoughts and make it difficult for him to break the law.
The method of arresting them has been practiced for a long time.
Regarding the foolish plan of the ministers, I think it is better to remain as before.
Emperor Wen also said: I have heard that if the law is correct, the people will be cautious, and if the punishment is appropriate, the people will obey.
It is the officials who govern the people and guide them with kindness. If they cannot guide them, they use unfair criminal laws to punish them. This is criminal law, but it harms the people and becomes violent.
I don't see the convenience of it, you should consider it carefully.
Chen Ping and Zhou Bocai said: Your Majesty is fortunate to extend great kindness to the world, so that the guilty will not be arrested and the innocent will not be implicated and punished. Such a magnificent moral conduct cannot be matched by the ministers.
The ministers carefully followed the edict and completely abolished the arrest law and the continuous sitting law.
After that, Niiguan Ping conspired to re-use the punishment of killing the three clans.
Therefore, it is said that when customs change, people's temperaments will be similar but customs will be very different. This is indeed the case.
With the kindness of Emperor Xiaowen and the wisdom of Chen Ping and Zhou Bo, there are still such huge wrongful punishments and ridiculous discussions, not to mention those mediocre people who are addicted to bad habits?
"Zhou Guan" has five hearings, eight discussions, three thorns, three pardons, and three pardons.

summary:
The text further examines the Han Dynasty's legal reforms and their shortcomings. Emperor Xiaowen abolished the law of arresting innocent relatives, but later reinstated it for certain crimes. The Zhou system of five hearings, eight discussions, and three pardons aimed for fairness, but Han officials often failed to implement these principles. Emperors issued edicts to protect the elderly, young, and disabled from harsh punishments. Despite these efforts, the number of lawsuits and executions remained high, with over 10,000 deaths annually. The root causes included lack of moral education, unclear laws, poverty, and corruption. Confucius noted that ancient judges sought to save lives, while modern ones sought to kill. The text concludes that the Han Dynasty's legal system, though improved, still fell short of ancient ideals. Xunzi argued that punishments should match crimes, and that heavy penalties are necessary in peaceful times to deter evil. The author suggests restoring ancient corporal punishments and simplifying laws to achieve harmony, as seen in the prosperous reigns of Cheng and Kang.

================================================================================

