Summary uses chunk [1, 4, 25]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
殿中郎缺，高祖谓徐勉曰： 此曹旧用文学，且居鹓行之首，宜详择其人。
勉举缅充选。
顷之，出为武陵太守，还拜太子洗马，中舍人。
缅母刘氏，以父没家贫，葬礼有阙，遂终身不居正室，不随子入官府。
缅在郡所得禄俸不敢用，乃至妻子不易衣裳，及还都，并供其母赈赡亲属，虽累载所畜，一朝随尽，缅私室常阒然如贫素者。
累迁北中郎谘议参军、宁远长史。
出为豫章内史。
缅为政任恩惠，不设钩距，吏人化其德，亦不敢欺，故老咸云 数十年未之有也 。
大通元年，征为司徒左长史，以疾不拜，改为太子中庶子，领羽林监。
俄迁御史中丞，坐收捕人与外国使斗，左降黄门郎，兼领先职，俄复为真。
缅居宪司，推绳无所顾望，号为劲直。高祖乃遣画工图其形于台省，以励当官。
中太通三年，迁侍中，未拜，卒，时年四十二。
诏赠侍中，加贞威将军，侯如故。
translation: 
There was a vacancy in the palace, and the chief minister said to Tu Tian: "This position has traditionally been for appointing people with literary talent, and it is at the head of the court. The person appointed should be carefully selected."
Zhang Mian was recommended for selection.
Soon after, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuling, and was appointed Prince Xima and Zhongsheren in the capital.
Zhang Mian's mother Liu Ya, because Zhang Mian's father died in a poor family and the burial etiquette was not thorough, so she never lived as the main wife or lived with her son in the official residence.
Qiang Mian did not dare to use the salary he earned in the county, and even his wife and children did not wear new clothes. When he returned to the capital, he gave it all to his mother to support his relatives. Although it was all his savings for many years, it was all used up in a short time. Zhang Mian's private room was often empty, like an ordinary poor family.
After repeated promotions, he was appointed as Beizhonglang and consulted to join the army. He was willing to have a long history.
He served as the internal history of Yuzhang.
Zhang Mian used favors for the government and did not investigate repeatedly because of suspicion. Officials and people were inspired by his virtues and did not dare to commit fraud. Therefore, the old people said: There has been no such person in decades.
In the first year of Datong, he was conscripted into the post of Situ Zuo Changshi. Due to illness, he was not accepted. He was appointed as the prince's concubine and led the Yulin Supervisor.
Soon he was moved to the post of Yushi Zhongcheng. He was convicted of arresting people and fighting with foreign envoys. He was demoted to Huangmenlang, which also took the lead in his previous post. Soon he was changed to a real professor.
Zhang Mian served as the imperial censor. He was fearless and hesitant in handling matters according to the law, and was known to be upright. Emperor Gaozu sent a painter to paint a portrait of him and place it in the official office of the minister to encourage officials.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to serve as a minister, but he was not accepted and died at the age of forty-two.
Shaoling gave him posthumous gifts to his servants and added him to General Zhenwei, but the marquis remained the same.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Mian, also known as Yuan Chang, was the son of General Hong Ce. As a child, his maternal grandfather Liu Zhongde recognized his exceptional nature, declaring him a noble person of the Zhang family. During the Qi Dynasty's Yongyuan period, when his father followed Gaozu to war, ten-year-old Zhang Mian was left in Xiangyang, where his emotions mirrored the army's victories and defeats. After his father was killed by demon thieves in the first year of Tianjian, Zhang Mian mourned excessively, beyond normal rituals. Upon completing mourning, he inherited the title of Marquis of Taoyang County. At eighteen, he was appointed governor of Huainan. Concerned about his youth, his superior sent a master to evaluate him but was impressed by his appropriate decisions. Returning to the capital, he served as Prince Sheren and later as a foreign soldier joining the army. Zhang Mian studied diligently, mastered required readings, and wrote extensively, clearly critiquing various academic schools. He answered guests' questions without omission. When a palace position became vacant, the chief minister recommended Zhang Mian for his literary talent. He later served as prefect of Wuling and Prince Xima. His mother Liu Ya, due to his father's poor burial, never lived as the main wife or in official residences. Zhang Mian did not use his salary for personal gain, giving it all to his mother, leaving his household as frugal as a poor family. He was promoted to Beizhonglang and served as internal history of Yuzhang, governing with favor and without suspicion, inspiring officials and people not to commit fraud. Elders noted no such governance in decades. In the first year of Datong, he was summoned as Situ Zuo Changshi but declined due to illness, later becoming the prince's concubine and Yulin Supervisor. He was moved to Yushi Zhongcheng but demoted for arresting people and fighting with foreign envoys. As imperial censor, he was fearless and upright, prompting Gaozu to have his portrait painted to encourage officials. In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to serve as a minister but died at forty-two. Gaozu wept bitterly, and Prince Zhaoming mourned, praising Zhang Mian's knowledge and official skills in a letter to his brother. Zhang Mian loved classical books, collecting over 10,000 volumes, and compiled "Hou Han Ji" and "Jin Chao" along with "Jiangzuo Collection," though unfinished. His son Fu inherited his title.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
累迁太尉谘议参军，尚书吏部郎，俄为长史兼侍中，时人以为早达。
河东裴子野曰： 张吏部在喉舌之任，已恨其晚矣。
子野性旷达，自云 年出三十，不复诣人。
初未与缵遇，便虚相推重，因为忘年之交。
大通元年，出为宁远华容公长史，行琅邪、彭城二郡国事。
二年，仍迁华容公北中郎长史、南兰陵太守，加贞威将军，行府州事。
三年，入为度支尚书，母忧去职。
服阕，出为吴兴太守。
缵治郡，省烦苛，务清静，民吏便之。
大同二年，征为吏部尚书。
缵居选，其后门寒素，有一介皆见引拔，不为贵要屈意，人士翕然称之。
五年，高祖手诏曰： 缵外氏英华，朝中领袖，司空以后，名冠范阳。
可尚书仆射。
初，缵与参掌何敬容意趣不协，敬容居权轴，宾客辐凑，有过诣缵者，辄距不前，曰： 吾不能对何敬容残客。
及是迁，为表曰： 自出守股肱，入尸衡尺，可以仰首伸眉，论列是非者矣。
而寸衿所滞，近蔽耳目，深浅清浊，岂有能预。
加以矫心饰貌，酷非所闲，不喜俗人，与之共事。
translation: 
Zhang Lan was repeatedly promoted to the rank of Taiwei, and he consulted to join the army. He was also appointed as the Minister of Libu Lang, and soon he was appointed as the commander and the minister. People at the time thought that he was young and had reached the age of maturity.
Pei Ziye, a native of Hedong, said: Zhang Libu has been appointed as the mouthpiece, but it is a pity that he was appointed late.
Ziye has an open-minded temperament and says to himself: When he is over thirty years old, he no longer visits people.
He had not met Zhang Lan at first, so he humbly respected him, and thus they became a close friend.
In the first year of Datong, he served as the official historian of Ningyuan Huarong, and also took photos of the state affairs of Langye and Pengcheng counties.
In the second year, he was moved to the post of Huarong Gongbeizhonglang Changshi and Mu Lanling prefect, and was awarded the title of General Zhenwei to handle the affairs of the prefecture.
In the third year, he entered the imperial court and was appointed as the minister of the branch. When his mother died, he resigned.
After the period of mourning was over, he was relieved of his duties and became the prefect of Wuxing.
Zhang Zuan managed the county affairs, eliminating the cumbersome affairs, making the administration clear and simple, and the people all found it convenient.
In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Zhang Zan served as the official of selection, and the people who came to his back door were all from humble backgrounds. The upright people were promoted, and they did not change their opinions for the important people. The scholars unanimously praised him.
In the fifth year of Datong, Emperor Gaozu wrote a Shao Shu book and said: Zhang Zuan is the Yinghua of his grandfather's family and the leader of the imperial court. After Sikong Zhang Mian, his reputation is the first in Fan Yang.
You can let him serve as a servant of the minister.
At first, Zhang Zan and his minister He Jingrong were not in harmony. Jingrong was the prime minister and guests gathered. When his guests passed by to visit Zhang Zan, he always refused to come, saying: I can't treat He Jingrong's disabled guests.
When he was transferred this time, he wrote: "Since I have been appointed as a minister to assist the monarch, and have been in charge of selecting talents, I can raise my head and raise my eyebrows to judge right and wrong."
However, he was hindered by his narrow mind and his ears and eyes were blocked. Deep and shallow, clear and muddy, how could he have the ability to intervene.
In addition, it is impossible to prevent him from concealing his feelings, and he does not like to work with extremely restless vulgar people.

summary:
summary line 1: Zhang Zan, courtesy name Boxu, was Zhang Mian's third brother, adopted by his uncle Hong Ji. At eleven, he married Princess Fuyang, Emperor Gaozu's fourth daughter, becoming Prince Consort Duwei. At seventeen, he was recruited as a secretary. Standing seven feet four inches tall with handsome features, Gaozu found him remarkable. Zhang Zan was eager to learn, reading his brother's vast collection day and night. As one of four Secretary Langs, he firmly requested not to move positions to read all books in the pavilion. He was later moved to Prince Sheren and then Xima and Zhongsheren, managing records. He was as famous as Wang Xi. In the early Tongren years, Northern Wei's Liu Shanming admired him greatly. Zhang Zan was promoted to Taiwei and Minister of Libu Lang, becoming commander and minister at a young age. Pei Ziye praised him as a mouthpiece but regretted his late appointment. In the first year of Datong, he served as official historian of Ningyuan Huarong and managed Langye and Pengcheng counties. He later became Huarong Gongbeizhonglang Changshi and Mu Lanling prefect. In the third year, he entered the court as minister of the branch but resigned when his mother died. After mourning, he became prefect of Wuxing, simplifying administration for the people's convenience. In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, promoting upright people without changing for the powerful. In the fifth year, Gaozu praised him as the leader of the imperial court. Zhang Zan had conflicts with He Jingrong, refusing to treat his guests. In office, he proposed suitable ancient and modern reforms for court uniforms. In the ninth year, he was transferred to General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin but was appointed as envoy Chijie and governor Yu Guasai. On his way, he wrote "Ode to the Southern Expedition," reflecting on his journey, governance, and historical reflections. He managed Xiangzhou effectively, increasing household registration by over 100,000 and bringing peace. In the second year of Taiqing, he was recruited as leader and later as governor of multiple regions. He had conflicts with Xiao Shu and Xiao Yu, leading to his arrest and forced shaving as a Taoist priest. He was killed at fifty-one. Emperor Yuan posthumously honored him as Jian Xian Gong. Zhang Zan wrote one hundred volumes of "Hongbao" and twenty volumes of collected works. His son Zhang Wang married Princess Haiyan.

Chunk 25: 
original: 
十年，复为御史中丞，加通直散骑常侍。
绾再为宪司，弹纠无所回避，豪右惮之。
是时城西开士林馆聚学者，绾与右卫硃异、太府卿贺琛递述《制旨礼记中庸》义。
太清二年，迁左卫将军。
会侯景寇至，入守东掖门。
三年，迁吏部尚书。
宫城陷，绾出奔，外转至江陵。湘东王承制，授侍中、左卫将军、相国长史，侍中如故。
出为持节、云麾将军、湘东内史。
承圣二年，征为尚书右仆射，寻加侍中。
明年，江陵陷，朝士皆俘入关，绾以疾免，后卒于江陵，时年六十三。
次子交，字少游，颇涉文学，选尚太宗第十一女安阳公主。
承圣二年，官至太子洗马，秘书丞，掌东宫管记。
translation: 
Ten years later, he was again appointed as the censor Zhongcheng, and was appointed as the regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
Zhang Wan once again served as the censor. He was unstoppable and powerful people were afraid of him.
When he was sent, a scholar's hall was opened in the west of the city to gather people who wanted to study. Zhang Wan, his right guard Zhu Yi, and Taifu Qing He Chen passed on the teachings and principles to each other.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he was promoted to Zuowei General.
When Hou Jing invaded the capital, Zhang Wan went to guard Shuye Gate.
Three years later, he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
When the palace fell, Zhang Wan fled out of the city and turned to Jiangling. King Xiangshu followed the emperor's will and granted Zhang Wan the title of Shizhong, Zuowei General, and Prime Minister. The Shizhong remained as usual.
He served as Chijie, General Yunhui, and Internal History of Eastern Hunan.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, he was recruited as Minister Youpushe, and soon he was appointed as Shizhong.
The next year, Jiangling fell and all the court officials were captured and sent to the Pass. Zhang Wan survived due to illness and later died in Jiangling at the age of sixty-three.
The second son Zhang Jiao, named Shaoyou, was quite involved in literature and married Princess Anyang, the eleventh daughter of Emperor Taizong.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, he was promoted to Prince Xi Ma, Secretary Cheng, and in charge of the management of the East Palace.

summary:
summary line 2: Zhang Wan, courtesy name Xiaoqing, was Zhang Zan's fourth brother. Excelling in shooting as a first-year student, he was recruited as chief and secretary, later moving to Prince Sheren and other roles. He was promoted to Zhongshu Lang and Doctor of Guozi, serving as Lang Changshi of Beizhong and Grand Administrator of Lanling. During the Han Dynasty, he managed Danyang Yin's affairs due to Xiao Yuanzao's illness. He moved to Zhongcheng, where Gaozu praised his legal uprightness. In the fourth year of Datong, he and his brother Zhang Zan served as servants, an unprecedented situation praised by contemporaries. He became internal history of Yuzhang, lecturing on "The Right Statement of the Book of Rites" to hundreds. In the eighth year, when Liu Jinggong held Ao Dao hostage, Zhang Wan ignored advice to flee, built defenses, recruited over 10,000 brave men, and pacified the thieves with Wang Sengbian's help. Ten years later, he again served as censor Zhongcheng, unstoppable and feared by the powerful. He opened a scholar's hall in the city. In the second year of Taiqing, he was promoted to Zuowei General, guarding Shuye Gate during Hou Jing's invasion. Three years later, he became Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. After the palace fell, he fled to Jiangling, where King Xiangshu granted him titles. He served as Chijie and Internal History of Eastern Hunan. In the second year of Chengsheng, he was recruited as Minister Youpushe and later Shizhong. When Jiangling fell, he survived due to illness and died at sixty-three. His son Zhang Jiao married Princess Anyang. Yao Cha commented that during the Taiqing period, Zhang Zan's personal grudges led to discord among kings, contributing to the Liang Dynasty's chaos.

