Chunk 0: 
original: 
谷永字子云，长安人也。
父吉，为卫司马，使送郅支单于侍子，为郅支所杀，语在《陈汤传》。
永少为长安小史，后博学经书。
建昭中，御史大夫繁延寿闻其有茂材，除补属，举为太常丞，数上疏言得失。
建始三年冬，日食、地震同日俱发，诏举方正直言极谏之士，太常阳城侯刘庆忌举永待诏公车。
对曰：
陛下秉至圣之纯德，惧天地之戒异，饬身修政，纳问公卿，又下明诏，帅举直言，燕见绎，以求咎愆，使臣等得造明朝，承圣问。
臣材朽学浅，不通政事。
translation: 
Gu Yong, named Ziyun, was from Chang'an.
His father, Gu Ji, served as Sima of the Wei Dynasty. As an envoy, he sent Shanyu Zhizhi's servant back to his country, but was killed by Zhizhi. This incident was recorded in the "Chen Tang Biography".
Gu Yong wrote a short history of Chang'an when he was young, and later studied the classics extensively.
During the reign of Emperor Jianzhao, Fan Yanshou, the imperial censor, heard that he had outstanding talents and appointed him as his subordinate. Later, he recommended him as Taichang Cheng. He wrote many memorials to discuss political gains and losses.
In the winter of the third year of Jianshi's reign, a solar eclipse and an earthquake occurred on the same day. The emperor ordered the selection of scholars who were upright, dared to speak out, and could try their best to persuade. Tai Chang Yangcheng Marquis Liu Qingji recommended Gu Yong to wait for the imperial edict.
Gu Yong replied:
Your Majesty has the purest moral character of the most sage. He is worried about the strange phenomena warned by heaven and earth. He organizes his own state affairs, inquires and adopts the suggestions of the ministers, and issues wise orders, asking the officials to recommend people who dare to speak out. He takes the time to summon them to explore the origins of the changes, to find the reasons for the heaven's punishment, so that we scholars can come to the court of the sage to accept the inquiry of the sage.
I am not very talented and have little knowledge, and I am not familiar with political affairs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
窃闻明王即位，正五事，建大中，以承天心，则庶征序于下，日月理于上；如人君淫溺后宫，船乐游田，五事失于躬，大中之道不立，则咎征降而六极至。
凡灾异之发，各象过失，以类告人。
乃十二月朔戊申，日食婺女之分，地震萧墙之内，二者同日俱发，以丁宁陛下，厥咎不远，宜厚求诸身。
意岂陛下志在闺门，未恤政事，不慎举错，娄失中与？
内宠大盛，女不遵道，嫉妨专上，妨继嗣与？
古之王者废五事之中，失夫妇之纪，妻妾得意，谒行于内，势行于外，至覆倾国家，或乱阴阳。
昔褒姒用国，宗周以丧；阎妻骄扇，日以不臧。
此其效也。
translation: 
I have heard privately that when a sage emperor ascends the throne, he should correct his appearance, speech, sight, hearing, and thinking, establish the rules of imperial rule, and obey the will of the Emperor of Heaven. Only in this way can many auspicious signs appear in sequence below, and only when the sun and moon move in the sky can there be Laws; if the king is too indulged in the harem, content with pleasure and hunting, and loses the correction of the five things, and the rules of rule cannot be established, then the signs of disaster will come and the six abnormal phenomena of punishment will appear.
All disasters and visions appear, each symbolizing a fault and warning the world according to its type.
So on the first day of the twelfth lunar month, when the solar eclipse was in Wu Nu, and the earthquake was in Xiao Qiang, both happened on the same day. I repeatedly told Your Majesty that those mistakes are not too far away, and you should deeply look for the reasons in yourself.
Is it God's will that His Majesty pays attention to women's sex, does not worry about political affairs, does not behave prudently, and repeatedly loses his integrity?
Is it because she dotes on concubines too much, because women do not abide by women's ethics, because they want to possess the Holy One alone due to jealousy, and hinder the prosperity of their descendants?
The ancient kings abolished the five principles of justice and lost the moral relationship between husband and wife. If their wives and concubines were favored, they could fulfill their requests internally and abuse their power externally, to the point of overthrowing the country and confusing and disrupting the order of yin and yang.
In the past, Guo Si was in power, and Zong Zhou lost his country because of it; Yan's wife was arrogant and pampered, so she became prosperous, so there was a solar eclipse.
This is a sign of a vision.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
经曰： 皇极，皇建其有极。
传曰： 皇之不极，是谓不建，时则有日月乱行。
陛下践至尊之祚为天下主，奉帝王之职以统群生，方内之治乱，在陛下所执。
诚留意于正身，勉强于力行，损燕私之闲以劳天下，放去淫溺之乐，罢归倡优之笑，绝却不享之义，慎节游田之虞，起居有常，循礼而动，躬亲政事，致行无倦，安服若性。
经曰： 继自今嗣王，其毋淫于酒，毋逸于游田，惟正之共。
未有身治正而臣下邪者也。
夫妻之际，王事纲纪，安危之机，圣王所致慎也。
translation: 
The scriptures say: The principle of imperial rule is to greatly establish the rule of justice.
The Sutra says: If the rules of governance are not upright, this is called non-establishment. At this time, the movement of the sun and the moon will be chaotic.
Your Majesty ascended the most noble throne and became the monarch of the world. He accepted the responsibilities of an emperor to rule all living beings. Peace and instability in the four directions are all under your control.
If you really can pay attention to self-correction, strive to do things to the best of your ability, reduce the time for private banquets to worry about the affairs of the world, give up and stay away from over-indulged pleasures, stop advocating for the entertainment of outstanding artists, put an end to behaviors that are not enjoyed by ghosts and gods, carefully control the fun of hunting and hunting, have certain rules in your daily life, follow the etiquette and law, manage political affairs personally, devote yourself to practical actions without being tired, and do everything with peace of mind as natural as nature.
The scriptures say: From now on, kings who inherit the ancestral inheritance should not indulge too much in banquets or indulge in hunting, but should only revise themselves respectfully.
There is no such thing as a lord who can cultivate the righteousness himself while his ministers are treacherous.
The relationship between husband and wife is the rule of law for the king and the key to the safety of the country. It is what a wise king should be most cautious about.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昔舜饬正二女，以崇至德；楚庄忍绝丹姬，以成伯功；幽王惑于褒姒，周德降亡；鲁桓胁于齐女，社稷以倾。
诚修后宫之政，明尊卑之序，贵者不得嫉妨专庞，以绝骄嫚之端，抑褒、阎之乱，贱者咸得秩进，各得厥职，以广继嗣之统，息《白华》之怨，后宫亲属，饶之以财，勿与政事，以远皇父之类，损妻党之权，未有闺门治而天下乱者也。
治远自近始，习善在左右。
昔龙管纳言，而帝命惟允；四辅既备，成王靡有过事。
诚敕正左右齐栗之臣，戴金貂之饰、执常伯之职者，皆使学先王之道，知君臣之义，济济谨孚，无敖戏骄恣之地，则左右肃艾，群僚仰法，化流四方。
经曰： 亦惟先正克左右。
未有左右正而百官枉者也。
translation: 
In the past, Shun warned the two women to speak and behave in a correct manner to make his noble character even nobler; King Zhuang of Chu endured the pain and did not see Danji, thus achieving the feat of overlord; King You of Zhou was deceived by Bao Si, and Zhou's virtue declined and the country perished; Duke Huan of Lu was coerced by Qi's daughter Jiang, and the state of Ji was overthrown.
If you can really regulate the affairs of the harem and clarify the order of superiority and inferiority, those with high status cannot monopolize the emperor's favor due to jealousy, so as to cut off the traces of arrogance and arrogance, and suppress the troubles such as Guo Si and Yan's wife. Those with low status can serve the monarch in order, and each can perform their duties. It can expand the continuation of future generations, quell the resentment of "White Flowers" and the like, and make them rich financially with relatives in the harem, and do not let them participate in political affairs. This can alienate people like the emperor's father who rely on favor to get official positions, weaken the power of the wife's party, and the world will be in chaos without the maintenance of the boudoir.
To conquer the distant place, we must start by governing the near place, and to learn good conduct must start from the people around us.
In the past, the dragon was in charge of Nayan, and Shun's orders were honest and obedient; the four assistants were complete, and the king made no mistakes.
If you can really tell the ministers who are in charge of everything, those who wear the golden mink ornaments and hold the responsibilities of Chang Bo, let them learn the ways of the previous kings and understand the righteousness between monarchs and ministers. Everyone will learn to be cautious and trustworthy, and will not play the fault of arrogance and indulgence. Then the ministers on the left and right will be respectful and obedient, and the officials will look up to them and follow their example, and the education will spread to all directions.
The scriptures say: We must first rectify and control the ministers on the left and right.
There is no right and left ministers who are upright but all the officials are dishonest.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
治天下者尊贤考功则治，简贤违功则乱。
诚审思治人之术，欢乐得贤之福，论材选士，必试于职，明度量以程能，考功实以定德，无用比周之虚誉，毋听浸润之谮诉，则抱功修职之吏无蔽伤之忧，比周邪伪之徒不得即工，小人日销，俊艾日隆。
经曰： 三载考绩，三考黜陟幽明。
又曰： 九德咸事，俊艾在官。
未有功赏得于前众贤布于官而不治者也。
尧遭洪水之灾，天下分绝为十二州，制远之道微而无乖畔之难者，德厚恩深，无怨于下也。
秦居平土，一夫大呼而海内崩析者，刑罚深酷，吏行残贼也。
夫违天害德，为上取怨于下，莫甚乎残贼之吏。
诚放退残贼酷暴之吏锢废勿用，益选温良上德之士以亲万胜，平刑释冤以理民命，务省繇役，毋夺民时，薄收赋税，毋殚民财，使天下黎元咸安家乐业，不苦逾时之役，不患苛暴之政，不疾酷烈之吏，虽有唐尧之大灾，民无离上之心。
translation: 
If those who rule the world respect the virtuous and judge their merits, then the world will be peaceful; if they despise the virtuous, regardless of their merits, the world will be in chaos.
If you really can carefully consider the method of governing the people, rejoice in the blessing of capable people, select scholars based on their talents, and be sure to put them on trial for their positions, clearly define the assessment standards to measure their abilities, and examine their actual merits to evaluate their virtues, and do not use gangs to engage in private interests. If you don't listen to the false praises of others, and don't listen to the false accusations that are accumulated, then the officials who have the responsibility of correcting their merits will not have to worry about their merits being hidden and slandered. People who form cliques and engage in evil and cunning can't get official positions. The number of villains is decreasing day by day, and the number of talented and capable people is increasing day by day.
The scriptures say: The performance of officials is assessed once every three years. After three assessments, those who have done nothing but have no merit will be dismissed, and those who have merit will be promoted.
He also said: People with nine virtues are appointed to work, and those who are outstanding and capable are given official positions.
If rewards based on merit are not implemented, many talented people are placed in official positions, but the country is not peaceful.
During Yao's time, there was a flood, and the world was divided into twelve states. The power to control distant areas was weakened, but there was no disaster of rebellion. This was because Yao's virtues were honest and generous, and his people had no resentment.
The Qin Dynasty was on a smooth and unhindered land. One man raised his arms and shouted, and the whole world collapsed and disintegrated. This was because the punishments were severe and cruel, and the officials' behavior was cruel and vicious.
There is no one more powerful than a cruel and vicious official who disobeys God's will, corrupts morals, and brings resentment to the people on behalf of the monarch.
Can you really expel the cruel, cruel and cruel officials, abolish them, increase the number of gentle, kind and virtuous people to care for the people, ease the punishment and release the wronged people to regulate the lives of the people, reduce corvee labor, do not take away farm time, and collect less taxes. Taxes should not exhaust the people's financial resources, so that the people of the world can live and work in peace and contentment, not suffering from delayed labor, not worrying from harsh politics, and not suffering from cruel officials. Even if there was a great disaster in the Tang Dynasty, the people did not betray their monarch.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
经曰： 怀保小人，惠于鳏寡。
未有德厚吏良而民畔者也。
臣闻灾异，皇天所以谴告人君过失，犹严父之明诫。
畏惧敬改，则祸销福降；忽然简易，则咎罚不除。
经曰： 飨用五福，畏用六极。
传曰： 六沴作见，若不共御，六罚既侵，六极其下。
今三年之间，灾异锋起，小大毕具，所行不享上帝，上帝不豫，炳然甚著。
不求之身，无所改正，疏举广谋，又不用其言，是循不享之迹，无谢过之实也，天责愈深。
此五者，王事之纲纪。南面之急务，唯陛下留神。
对奏，天子异焉，特召见永。
translation: 
The scriptures say: He cares and settles the people, and shows kindness to the widowed and widowed.
There is no such thing as a monarch who is virtuous and honest, and officials who are virtuous, but the people are rebellious.
I heard that visions of disaster are used by the emperor to reprimand and warn people for their mistakes, just like the clear warnings of a kind and strict father.
If you are afraid of worry and correct yourself respectfully, then the disaster will disappear and blessings will come; if you ignore the warning of contempt, the punishment of disaster will not be eliminated.
The scriptures say: If you act in accordance with God's will, the five blessings will come; if you act contrary to God's will, the six extremes will come.
The Sutra says: Six kinds of disasters arise and appear. If you do not cultivate virtue respectfully to prevent disasters, the six kinds of punishments will invade, and the six kinds of disasters and strange phenomena will come.
In the past three years, disasters and visions have appeared in droves, both large and small. This is because the actions are not in line with the will of the Emperor of Heaven, and the Emperor of Heaven is not happy, which is very obvious.
If you don't seek the reasons within yourself, you won't be able to make corrections. If you recommend scholars quickly and solicit opinions widely, but don't adopt their opinions, you are following a path that is not in line with God's will. If you don't take practical actions to thank you, the punishment from the Emperor of Heaven will be heavier.
These five matters are the laws of the king's political affairs and are important matters for governing from the south. I hope your majesty will pay attention to them.
The emperor was surprised when the countermeasures were advanced and summoned Gu Cheng specially.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其夏，皆令诸方正对策，语在《杜钦传》。
永对毕，因曰： 臣前幸得条对灾异之效，祸乱所极，言关于圣聪。
书陈于前，陛下委弃不纳，而更使方正对策，背可惧之大异，问不急之常论，废承天之至言，角无用之虚文，欲末杀灾异，满谰诬天，是故皇天勃然发怒，甲己之间暴风三溱，拔树折木，此天至明不可欺之效也。
上特复问永，永对曰： 日食、地震，皇后、贵妾专宠所致。
语在《五行志》。
是时，上初即位，谦让委政元舅大将军王凤，议者多归咎焉。
永知凤方见柄用，阴欲自托，乃复曰：
方今四夷宾服，皆为臣妾，北无薰粥冒顿之患，南无赵佗、吕嘉之难，三垂晏然，靡有兵革之警。
诸侯大者乃食数县，汉吏制其权柄，不得有为，亡吴、楚、燕、梁之势。
百官盘互，亲疏相错，骨肉大臣有申伯之忠，洞洞属属，小心畏忌，无重合、安阳、博陆之乱。
translation: 
That summer, all the founders were ordered to come up with countermeasures. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Du Qin".
After Gu Yong finished answering, he continued: I was fortunate enough to be able to make a statement about the effectiveness of the disaster. The disaster was extreme, and the words were related to the sage you listened to.
The memorial statement was given in front of him, but His Majesty rejected it and refused to adopt it, but instead gave in to the correct countermeasures. He did not face up to the unusual phenomena that were worthy of worry, asked for ordinary opinions that were not urgent, and abolished the wise words that were in line with God's will. He offered useless empty words, trying to obliterate the disaster and deceive the emperor, so the emperor became angry. The storms between armies and Ji came three times, uprooting and breaking the trees. This is the most holy test of the emperor and cannot be deceived.
The emperor specifically asked Gu Yong, and Gu Yong replied: The solar eclipse and earthquake were caused by the exclusive favor of the queen's concubine.
This incident is recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
At this time, the emperor had just ascended the throne. He was modest and courteous and entrusted the political affairs to the general Wang Feng. Most of the ministers blamed Wang Feng.
Gu Yong knew that Wang Feng had just been trusted and took power, and secretly wanted to rely on Wang Feng, so he said:
Now that all the barbarians have surrendered, they have all become your concubines. There is no need to worry about making porridge or food in the north, and there is no need to worry about Zhao Tuo or Lu Jia in the south. The borders on three sides are stable, and there is no warning of military revolution.
The big princes only had salaries in several counties, and the officials of the imperial court controlled their power, preventing them from doing anything. There was no longer a situation where Wu, Chu, Yan, and Liang stood side by side.
Hundreds of officials are intertwined, close to each other, and the flesh and blood ministers are as loyal as Shen Bo, pious and respectful, cautious and fearful, and there are no rebellions such as Chonghe, Anyang, and Bolu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
三者无毛发之辜，不可归咎诸舅。
及欲以政事过差丞相父子、中尚书宦官，槛塞大异，皆瞽说欺天者也。
窃恐陛下舍昭昭之白过，忽天地之明戒，听暗昧之瞽说，归咎乎无辜，倚异乎政事，重失天心，不可之大者也。
陛下即位，委任遵旧，未有过政。
元年正月，白气较然起乎东方，至其四月，黄浊四塞，覆冒京师，申以大水，著以震蚀。
各有占应，相为表里，百官庶事无所归倚，陛下独不怪与？
白气起东方，贱人将兴之表也；黄浊冒京师，王道微绝之应也。
夫贱人当起而京师道微，二者已丑。
translation: 
These three aspects are not as fine as a hair, and cannot be blamed on the uncles.
This and those who want to use political affairs to find fault with the prime minister and his son, slander the ministers and eunuchs, and excuse unusual visions, are all people who use unreasonable fallacies to deceive the emperor of heaven.
Privately, I am afraid that Your Majesty will make obvious mistakes, ignore the clear warnings of heaven and earth, listen to the unreasonable fallacies of ignorant people, blame innocent people, attribute the occurrence of disasters to political affairs, and deeply lose the will of the Emperor of Heaven. This is extremely unacceptable.
His Majesty ascended the throne and appointed officials according to the old rules without any political fault.
In the first month of the first year, white air clearly rose from the east. By April of the first year, yellow turbid air filled everywhere, covering the capital, and major floods occurred, which were manifested by earthquakes and solar eclipses.
Each has its own account and fulfillment, and the exterior and interior are related to each other. There is nothing to attribute and rely on in all officials and affairs. Isn't it strange to Your Majesty?
The white air rising from the east is a sign that lowly people will rise; the yellow turbid air covering the capital is a sign of the decline and severance of the king's way.
The sluts are rising while the royal power in the capital is declining, which creates a bad experience in both aspects.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
陛下诚深察愚臣之言，致惧天地之异，长思宗庙之计，改往反过，抗湛溺之意，解偏驳之爱，奋乾刚之威，平天覆之施，使列妾得人人更进，犹尚未足也，急复益纳宜子妇人，毋择好丑，毋避尝字，毋论年齿。
推法言之，陛下得继嗣于微贱之间，乃反为福。
得继嗣而已，母非有贱也。
后宫女吏使令有直意者，广求于微贱之间，以遇天所开右，慰释皇太后之忧愠，解谢上帝之谴怒，则继嗣蕃滋，灾异讫息。
陛下则不深察愚臣之言，忽于天地之戒，咎根不除，水雨之灾，山石之异，将发不久；发则灾异已极，天变成形，臣虽欲捐身关策，不及事已。
疏贱之臣，至敢直陈天意，斥讥帷幄之私，欲间离贵后、盛妾，自知忤心逆耳，必不免于汤镬之诛。
此天保右汉家，使臣敢直言也。
三上封事，然后得召；待诏一旬，然后得见。
夫由疏贱纳至忠，甚苦；由至尊闻天意，甚难。
语不可露，愿具书所言，因待中奏陛下，以示腹心大臣。
腹心大臣以为非天意，臣当伏妄言之诛；即以为诚天意也，奈何忘国家大本，背天意而从欲！
唯陛下省察熟念，厚为宗庙计。
translation: 
Your Majesty can really understand the words of my foolish minister, devote himself to worrying about the vision of heaven and earth, think long-term about the grand plan of the ancestral temple, change the mistakes of the past, get rid of indulgence, eliminate biased favor, strengthen the power of hard work, equally share the favor of the Emperor of Heaven, so that all the concubines can be served in turn.
Judging from this method, it is actually a blessing for Your Majesty to have descendants among humble people.
It's just to get the descendants to inherit. There is nothing mean about a mother.
Send harems and concubines who are suitable for the emperor's wishes, and widely seek among humble people, so that they can encounter the help shown by the emperor, comfort and resolve the worries and resentments of the empress dowager, reconcile and eliminate the blame and anger of the emperor, then the descendants will multiply, and disasters and strange phenomena will cease.
If your majesty fails to observe my words deeply and ignores the warnings of heaven and earth, the source of the disaster will not be eliminated. Water and rain disasters, mountain and rock strange phenomena will occur soon; so many disasters have occurred and have reached the extreme, and the changes in the celestial phenomena have taken shape. Even if I want to sacrifice my life and offer advice, it will be of no use.
He who alienates humble ministers dares to state the will of God forthrightly, rebukes and ridicules the privacy of the palace curtains, wants to alienate the noble queen and the favored concubine, but knows that his harsh words are not in line with the emperor's will, and he will definitely not be exempted from the punishment of soup and wok.
This is because the Emperor of Heaven has blessed the Han family and enabled me to dare to say this frankly.
After entering the sealed memorial three times, he was summoned; after ten days of waiting for the edict, he was able to see the Holy One.
It is very difficult to offer loyal advice from a distant and humble position; it is not easy to hear the will of God from the most exalted position.
These words must not be leaked. I hope to write down what I said in detail, and have the servants report it to Your Majesty, and show it to the ministers close to you.
The confidant minister thinks that it is not God's will, and I should be punished for lying. If I think it is God's will, why should I forget the fundamentals of the country and go against God's will to indulge my selfish desires!
Your Majesty, please carefully examine and consider carefully, and make many plans for the ancestral temple.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
时，对者数十人，永与杜钦为上第焉。
上皆以其书示后宫。
后上尝赐许皇后书，采永言以责之，语在《外戚传》。
永既阴为大将军凤说矣，能实最高，由是擢为光禄大夫。
永奏书谢凤曰： 永斗筲之材，质薄学朽，无一日之雅，左右之介，将军说其狂言，擢之皂衣之吏，厕之争臣之末，不听浸润之谮，不食肤受之诉，虽齐桓、晋文用士笃密，察父哲兄覆育子弟，诚无以加！
昔豫子吞炭坏形以奉见异，齐客陨首公门以报恩施，知氏、孟尝犹有死士，何况将军之门！
凤遂厚之。
数年，出为安定太守。
时，上诸舅皆修经书，任政事。
平阿侯谭年次当继大将军凤辅政，尤与永善。
阳朔中，凤薨。
凤病困，荐从弟御史大夫音以自代。
上从之，以音为大司马车骑将军，领尚书事，而平阿侯谭位特进，领城门兵。
永闻之，与谭书曰： 君侯躬周、召之德，执管、晏之操，敬贤下士，乐善不倦，宜在上将久矣，以大将军在，故抑郁于家，不得舒愤。
translation: 
There were dozens of people who dealt with it at that time, and Gu Yong and Du Qin were the best among them.
The emperor showed all their memorials to the harem.
Later, the emperor sent a letter to Empress Xu, quoting Gu Yong's words to rebuke her. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Foreign Relations".
Gu Yong had secretly lobbied for General Wang Feng, and he was indeed the most talented, so he was promoted to Doctor Guanglu.
Gu Yongjin wrote a letter to thank Wang Feng, saying: I only have a talent as small as Dou Shuu, and I have little qualifications and poor knowledge. I have no one-day friendship with the general, and I have no introduction. The general appreciated my arrogant words and promoted me from the position of a small official in soap clothes to the last position of a remonstrating minister. I did not listen to Ji Jian! Deep accusation. If false slanders are not accepted, even if Qi Huan and Jin Wen appoint scholars who are close to each other and have a wise father and wise brother to protect and raise their children, it is really not possible to do more!
In the past, Yuzi swallowed charcoal, ruined his voice, and his face to repay the unusual treatment. The guests from the Qi family came to repay Lord Mengchang's kindness. Zhishi and Mengchang also had warriors who died for them, not to mention the general's disciples!
Wang Feng treated Gu Yong favorably.
Many years later, Gu Yong left the capital and became the prefect of Anding.
At that time, all the emperor's uncles were studying classics and taking charge of government affairs.
According to the order of age, Ping Ahou Wang Tan should succeed General Wang Feng to assist in political affairs, especially to be friendly with Gu Yong.
During the Yangshuo period, Wang Feng died.
When Wang Feng was seriously ill, he recommended his cousin Wang Yin, the imperial censor, to replace him.
The emperor followed his advice and appointed Wang Yin as the chief chariot and cavalry general to lead the ministerial affairs, while Ping'ahou Wang Tan gave him the official position of special promotion and led the city gate soldiers.
Gu Yong heard about this and wrote a letter to Wang Tan saying: You have the character of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong, have the conduct of Guanzi and Yanzi, respect talented people and treat them with humility, and like to do good deeds tirelessly. You should have been a general long ago. Because of the general's presence, you are depressed at home and cannot express your sorrow and anger.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
今大将军不幸蚤薨，累亲疏，序材能，宜在君侯。
拜吏之日，京师士大夫怅然失望。
此皆永等愚劣，不能褒扬万分。
属闻以特进领城门兵，是则车骑将军秉政雍容于内，而至戚贤舅执管籥于外也。
愚窃不为君侯喜。
宜深辞职，自陈浅薄不足以固城门之守，收太伯之让，保谦谦之路，阖门高枕，为知者首。
愿君侯与博览者参之，小子为君侯安此。
谭得其书大感，遂辞让不受领城门职。
由是谭、音相与不平。
永远为郡吏，恐为音所危，病满三月免。
音奏请永补营军司马，永数谢罪自陈，得转为长史。
音用从舅越亲辅政，威权损于凤时，永复说音曰： 将军覆上将之位，食豪腴之都，任周、召之职，拥天下之枢，可谓富贵之极，人臣无二，天下之责四面至矣，将何以居之？
宜夙夜孳孳，执伊尹之强德，以守职匡上，诛恶不避亲爱，举善不避仇雠，以章至公，立信四方。
笃行三者，乃可以长堪重任，久享盛宠。
translation: 
Now that the general has unfortunately passed away prematurely, it should be your turn to rank in order of closeness and ability.
On the day of the ceremony, the scholar-bureaucrats in the capital were disappointed.
This is all because we people are stupid and have low talents, and we cannot reward and praise even one ten thousandth of it.
Recently I heard that you lead the city gate soldiers with the special rank, which makes the general of chariots and cavalry in power in the court with grace and grace, while your dearest uncle is holding the keys to the city gate outside.
I'm personally unhappy for you.
You should resolutely demand to resign, state that your talents are not enough to strengthen the guards of the city gate, accept the name of Taibo's humility, keep the path of humility, close the door and sleep in peace, and be the leader of wise people.
I hope you will consider this matter with knowledgeable people, and I have arranged it for you.
Wang Tan was very moved by his letter, so he refused to accept the position of leading the city gate.
From then on, Wang Tan and Wang Yin were at odds with each other.
Gu Yong was working as a county official in a distant place. He was worried about being harmed by Wang Yin, so he claimed that he had been ill for three full months and was relieved of his duties.
Wang Yinzhuo asked Gu Yong to be appointed as the commander of the camp. Gu Yong apologized many times and stated his case, so he was transferred to the post of Chang Shi.
Because Wang Yin transcended his close relatives and assisted in political affairs as a cousin, his power and influence were lower than those of Wang Feng. Gu Yong then persuaded Wang Yin and said: "The general holds the position of general, enfeoffs the fertile land of the big city, bears the same responsibilities as Duke of Zhou and Duke of Zhao, and controls the secrets of the world. It can be called the ultimate wealth. If there is no second among ministers, the world's blame will come from all sides. What will you rely on to occupy this position?"
You should work tirelessly day and night, with a strong character like Yi Yin, to uphold your duties and assist the emperor, punish evildoers without avoiding those who are close to you, believe in and love them, and promote virtuous people without avoiding those who are hostile and hostile, so as to show the greatest justice and establish credibility in all directions.
Only by concentrating on implementing these three aspects can you be able to shoulder heavy responsibilities for a long time and enjoy deep favor for a long time.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
太白出西方六十日，法当参天，今已过期，尚在桑榆之间，质弱而行迟，形小而光微。
荧惑角怒明大，逆行守尾。
其逆，常也；守尾，变也。
意岂将军忘湛渐之义，委曲从顺，所执不强，不广用士，尚有好恶之忌，荡荡之德未纯，方与将相大臣乖离之萌也？
何故始袭司马之号，俄而金火并有此变？
上天至明，不虚见异，唯将军畏之慎之，深思其故，改求其路，以享天意。
音犹不平，荐永为护菀使者。
音薨，成都侯商代为大司马卫将军，永乃迁为凉州刺史。
奏事京师讫，当之部，时有黑龙见东莱，上使尚书问永，受所欲言。
永对曰：
translation: 
Taibai appeared in the west for sixty days. According to the law, it should reach the sky. Now it has expired and is still among the mulberry trees. Its body is weak and its movement is slow. Its shape is small and its light is weak.
Yinghuojiao is strong, large and bright, and is located in Ojuku in retrograde motion.
When Mars is retrograde, it is fixed; when Mars is in Osu, it is mutable.
Does God's will mean that the general forgets the deep and hidden righteousness, is submissive, the deacon is not strong, does not widely appoint scholars, still has taboos about likes and dislikes, and the magnanimous character is not pure, and is the beginning of betrayal by the generals and ministers?
Why did Venus and Mars mutate like this when you just inherited the title of Sima?
God is the most holy and will not show visions out of thin air. I hope that the general will look at all this with awe and caution, think deeply about the reasons for the changes, and change the way to seek governance to comply with God's will.
Wang Yin still couldn't calm down and recommended Gu Yong to be the guardian envoy.
When Wang Yin died, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Chengdu, took his place as the Great Sima Wei General, and Gu Yong was promoted to the governor of Liangzhou.
After finishing the performance in the capital, it was time to go to the ministry. At that time, a black dragon appeared in Shulai. The emperor sent a minister to ask Gu Yong to hear what he had to say.
Gu Yong replied:


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣闻王天下有国家者，患在上有危亡之事，而危亡之言不得上闻；如使危亡之言辄上闻，则商、周不易姓而迭兴，三正不变改而更用。
夏、商之将亡也，行道之人皆知之，晏然自以若天有日莫能危，是故恶日广而不自知，大命倾而不寤。
《易》曰： 危者有其安者也，亡者保其存者也。
陛下诚垂宽明之听，无忌讳之诛，使刍荛之臣得尽所闻于前，不惧于后患，直言之路开，则四方众贤不远千里，辐凑陈忠，群臣之上愿，社稷之长福也。
汉家行夏正，夏正色黑，黑龙，同姓之象也。
龙阳德，由小之大，故为王者瑞应。
未知同姓有见本朝无继嗣之庆，多危殆之隙，欲因扰乱举兵而起者邪？
将动心冀为后者，残贼不仁，若广陵、昌邑之类？
臣愚不能处也。
translation: 
I heard that the people who rule the world and occupy the country are worried that the monarch's behavior will endanger the country, but the words of warning of danger cannot be heard by the monarch. If the words of warning of danger were heard by the monarch immediately, then the Shang and Zhou Dynasties would not change their surnames and rise alternately, and the three generations would not change their politics but use each other.
The Xia and Shang Dynasties were about to perish, and everyone on the road knew it, but the monarch safely thought that no one could harm him like the sun in the sky. Therefore, his sins became more and more serious, but he himself did not know it, and his fate was overthrown, but he did not realize it.
"Book of Changes" says: Only those who can consider danger can maintain stability, and only those who can think of destruction can exist.
If your Majesty can really listen to opinions magnanimously and wisely, without killing people because of taboos, so that the humble ministers can state everything they hear in front of you without worrying about future troubles, and the path of speaking out will be opened, then many wise men from all over the world will travel thousands of miles and gather at the court like the spokes of a car on an axis to express their loyalty. This is the greatest wish of the ministers and the long-term blessing of the country.
The Han family follows the first month of the lunar calendar. The first month of the lunar calendar is black, and the black dragon is a symbol of the same surname.
The dragon belongs to Yang De, from small to large, so it is the auspicious sign of the king.
I wonder if someone with the same surname has seen that Fuqing, who has no heir in this dynasty, has many dangerous gaps, and wants to take advantage of this to invade and cause chaos and raise troops?
Or do you start your mind and hope that your successor will be cruel and unkind, like Luling and Changyi?
I am too stupid to make a decision.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
元年九月黑龙见，其晦，日有食之。
今年二月己未夜星陨，乙酉，日有食之。
六月之间，大异四发，二而同月，三代之末，春秋之乱，未尝有也。
臣闻三代所以陨社稷丧宗庙者，皆由妇人与群恶没湎于酒。
《书》曰： 乃用妇人之言，自绝于天 ； 四方之逋逃多罪，是宗是长，是信是使 。
《诗》云： 燎之方阳，宁或灭之？
赫赫宗周，褒姒■之！
《易》曰： 濡其首，有孚失是。
秦所以二世十六年而亡者，养生泰奢，奉终泰厚也。
二者陛下兼而有之，臣请略陈其效。
《易》曰： 在中馈，无攸遂 ，言妇人不得与事也。
《诗》曰： 懿厥哲妇，为枭为鸱 ； 匪降自天，生自妇人 。
建始、河平之际，许、班之贵，顷动前朝，熏灼四方，赏赐无量，空虚内臧，女宠至极，不可上矣；今之后起，天所不飨，什倍于前。
translation: 
In September of the first year of the year, the black dragon appeared, and on the last day of September, there was a solar eclipse.
In February this year, the stars had not fallen yet, and there was another solar eclipse.
Within six months, great visions appeared four times, twice in the same month. This had never happened before in the last years of the three generations or during the chaos of the Spring and Autumn Period.
I heard that the reason for the demise of the three dynasties and the loss of ancestral temples was because women and some evil people indulged in drinking and pleasure.
"Book of Zhou" says: To adopt women's words is to cut oneself off from heaven.  Accommodate those who have fled from all directions and commit many sins, respect and elevate them, trust and use them.
The Book of Songs says: The fire is burning fiercely, is there anyone who can put it out?
The illustrious Zongzhou, it was Bao Si who destroyed it!
"Book of Changes" says: Drinking alcohol to wet one's head will lead to loss of credit.
The reason why the Qin Dynasty perished after only sixteen years of experience was that health care was too extravagant and the end of life was too luxurious.
Your Majesty has both, and I beg to state briefly their effects.
"The Book of Changes" says that there is nothing to achieve in the middle of the staple food, which means that women cannot participate in political affairs.
The Book of Songs says: A wise woman is considered beautiful, but she is actually a partridge; she does not fall from the sky, but is born of a woman.
At the beginning of Jianshi and when the river was leveled, the nobles of the Xu and Ban families suddenly moved forward, and their arrogance burned in all directions. The rewards were incalculable, causing the internal treasury to be empty, and the female favorites reached their peak and could not be increased any more. Now those who come later, God does not bless them, are ten times better than before.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
废先帝法度，听用其言，官秩不当，纵释王诛，骄其亲属，假之威权，从横乱政，刺举之吏，莫敢奉宪。
又以掖庭狱大为乱阱，榜棰■于炮格，绝灭人命，主为赵、李报德复怨，反除白罪，建治正吏，多系无辜，掠立迫恐，至为人起责，分利受谢。
生入死出者，不可胜数。
是以日食再既，以昭其辜。
王者必先自绝，然后天绝之。
陛下弃万乘之至贵，乐家人之贱事，厌高美之尊号，好匹夫之卑字，崇聚僄轻无义小人以为私客，数离深宫之固，挺身晨夜，与群小相随，乌集杂会，饮醉吏民之家，乱服共坐，流面媟嫚，混淆无别，闵免遁乐，昼夜在路。
典门户奉宿卫之臣执干戈而守空宫，公卿百僚不知陛下所在，积数年矣。
translation: 
They abolished the legal system of the late emperor, followed their advice, granted palace titles and salaries inappropriately, released the criminals who should be killed by the king's law, indulged their relatives, relied on their power and power to act wantonly and disrupted political affairs, and none of the officials in charge of investigation and exposure dared to follow the law.
He also dug a large number of pits and traps in the Yeting Prison. The whipping and torture were more painful than cannon fire and destroyed people's lives. The Lord repaid the kindness and vengeance of Fang and Li. Instead, he removed the charges of those whose crimes were clear. He suggested impeachment and punishment of impartial officials, often imprisoning the innocent people, tortured, coerced and intimidated them into submission to establish the crime, and even lent money to others, and received the interest and accepted the reward.
The number of people who went to jail alive and came out dead is incalculable.
So there were two solar eclipses to show their sin.
The emperor must first bring about his own destruction, and then the genius will destroy him.
His Majesty gave up the most noble position of ten thousand chariots, liked the humble things of the common people, hated the noble and beautiful titles, liked the humble words of the common people, praised the gathering of shallow and meaningless villains, treated them as private guests, and left the well-defended city many times. In the deep palace, day and night, people gather together, small people follow each other, they assemble in disorder like a gathering of robbers, they drink and indulge in the homes of officials and common people, they sit on the same couch together in chaotic clothes, they indulge in insults, there is no distinction between superiority and inferiority, they escape and enjoy themselves, traveling day and night.
The ministers who are in charge of the door and have the duty of guarding the empty palace are guarding the empty palace with arms. The ministers and officials have not known where His Majesty is for several years.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
王者以民为基，民以财为本，财竭则下畔，下畔则下亡。
是以明王爱养基本，不敢穷极，使民如承大祭。
今陛下轻夺民财，不爱民力，听邪臣之计，去高敞初陵，捐十年功绪，改作昌陵，反天地之性，因下为高，积土为山，发徒起邑，并治宫馆，大兴繇役，重增赋敛，征发如雨，役百乾溪，费疑骊山，靡敝天下，五年不成而后反故。
又广盱营表，发人冢墓，断截骸骨，暴扬尸柩，百姓财竭力尽，愁恨感天，灾异屡降，饥馑仍臻。
流散冗食，餧死于道，以百万数。
公家无一年之畜，百姓无旬日之储，上下俱匮，无以相救。
《诗》云： 殷监不远，在夏后之世。
愿陛下追观夏、商、周、秦所以失之，以镜考己行。
translation: 
The emperor is based on the people, and the people are based on property. When the property is exhausted, the people will rebel, and the country will perish if the people rebel.
Therefore, the sage monarch cherishes the foundation of rest and recuperation, does not dare to let it be exhausted, and uses the people's power as cautiously as he undertakes great sacrifices.
Now His Majesty seizes the property of the people easily, does not cherish the people's power, and obeys the evil minister's plan. He abandons the tall and spacious Chuling, throws away the beginning of ten years of work, and transforms it into a Changling. This goes against the nature of heaven and earth. He builds high places based on low places, piles up soil to become high mountains, and dispatches They punished those who did hard labor to build cities, built palaces and hotels at the same time, launched a large-scale corvee, increased taxes and collections, and collected and collected services like rain. The labor force was a hundred times more than Ganxi, and the cost was comparable to Lishan. It ruined and exhausted the world. It was not completed for five years and then returned to the original tomb.
They also expanded the camp, dug up people's graves, cut off the bones, and exposed the corpses and coffins. The people's property was depleted and their labor was exhausted. Their sorrow and resentment moved the Emperor of Heaven. Disasters and visions occurred many times, and famines occurred frequently.
People scattered in search of food, and millions died of starvation on the roads.
The public family did not have a year's savings, and the people did not have ten days' savings. Everyone was in need, and there was no way to provide relief.
"The Book of Songs" says: Yin's reference was not far away, in the time of Queen Xia.
I hope that your majesty can trace back and observe the reasons why Xia, Shang, Zhou and Qin lost their countries, so as to learn from it and examine your own behavior.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
有不合者，臣当伏妄言之诛。
汉兴九世，百九十余载，继体之主七，皆承天顺道，遵先祖法度，或以中兴，或以治安。
至于陛下，独违道纵欲，轻身妄行，当盛壮之隆，无继嗣之福，有危亡之忧，积失君道，不合天意，亦已多矣。
为人后嗣，守人功业，如此，岂不负哉！
translation: 
If what I say goes against the truth, I will definitely bear the punishment for lying.
During the ninth dynasty of the Han Dynasty, over a period of more than 190 years, there were seven monarchs who succeeded to the throne. They all followed the will of heaven, obeyed the laws of heaven, and followed the laws and regulations of their ancestors. Some were famous for their revival in decline, and some were famous for their political clarity and stability of the country.
When it comes to Your Majesty, just by violating the laws of heaven and indulging selfish desires, belittling oneself and acting recklessly, in the prime of life, without the blessing of an heir, but with the worry of danger and death, and by accumulating and losing the way to be a king, there are already many things that are not in line with God's will.
As the descendants of our ancestors, if we preserve the merits and deeds of our ancestors, wouldn’t we be living up to our ancestors?


Chunk 17: 
original: 
方今社稷宗庙祸福安危之机在于陛下，陛下诚肯发明圣之德，昭然远寤，畏此上天之威怒，深惧危亡之征兆，荡涤邪辟之恶志，厉精致政，专心反道，绝群小之私客，免不正之诏除，悉罢北宫私奴车马媠出之具，克己复礼，毋二微行出饮之过，以防迫切之祸，深惟日食再既之意，抑损椒房玉堂之盛宠，毋听后宫之请谒，除掖庭之乱狱，出炮格之陷阱，诛戮邪佞之臣及左右执左道以事上者以塞天下之望，且寝初陵之作，止诸缮治宫室，阙更减赋，尽休力役，存恤振救困乏之人以弭远方，厉崇忠直，放退残贼，无使素餐之吏久尸厚禄，以次贯行，固执无违，夙夜孳孳，屡省无怠，旧愆毕改，新德既章，纤介之邪不复载心，则赫赫大异庶几可销，天命去就庶几可复，社稷宗庙庶几可保。
唯陛下留神反复，熟省臣言。
臣幸得备边部之吏，不知本朝失得，瞽言触忌讳，罪当万死。
translation: 
Now the key to the safety and good fortune of the Sheji Ancestral Temple lies with Your Majesty. Your Majesty is really willing to carry forward the virtues of sage. He is clearly and deeply awakened to fear the majesty and wrath of God. He is deeply wary of the signs of danger and danger. He must wash away his bad ambitions and interests, cheer up and devote himself to political affairs. He must return to the way of a king wholeheartedly. He must prevent villains from being personal guests and avoid unfair appointment of officials. , all preparations for private slaves in the Beigong to go out, restrain themselves and restore etiquette, and do not make the mistake of leaving the palace for banquets in order to avoid imminent disasters. Think deeply about the signs of the two solar eclipses, refrain from detracting from the favor of the prosperous Jiaofang and Yutang, do not listen to the invitations of the harem, abolish the illegal prison in Yeting, fill up the traps like cannons, and kill the treacherous and flattering ministers. And those who come to serve the emperor in evil ways, in order to satisfy the world's expectations, temporarily stop the work of the early mausoleum, stop all kinds of repair and renovation projects of the palace, reduce the number of soldiers and reduce taxes, completely stop using the people's power, condolences and provide relief to the poor, so as to stabilize the distant places, encourage and respect the loyal and upright people, banish the cruel and tyrannical people, and do not let the officials who eat for free stay for a long time. Occupy a generous salary, carry out the work in sequence, persevere without violating it, be diligent in the morning and evening, review many times without getting tired, correct all the old mistakes, show new virtues, and no longer take small evils to heart, then the grand vision will almost disappear, the destiny will be gone without virtue, virtue will be almost restored, and the Sheji Ancestral Temple will be almost preserved.
I hope Your Majesty will be careful not to repeat the same mistakes and carefully examine my words.
I am fortunate to be appointed as a border official. I do not understand the gains and losses of this dynasty. My fallacies violate taboos and deserve death.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
成帝性宽而好文辞，又久无继嗣，数为微行，多近幸小臣，赵、李从微贱专宠，皆皇太后与诸舅夙夜所常忧。
至亲难数言，故推永等使因天变而切谏，劝上纳用之。
永自知有内应，展意无所依违，每言事辄见答礼。
至上此对，上大怒。
卫将军商密擿永令发去。
上使侍御史收永，敕过交道厩者勿追，御史不及永，还，上意亦解，自悔。
明年，征永为太中大夫，迁光禄大夫给事中。
元延元年，为北地太守。
时，灾异尤数，永当之官，上使卫尉淳于长受永所欲言。
永对曰：
臣永幸得以愚朽之材为太中大夫，备拾遗之臣，从朝者之后，进不能尽思纳忠辅宣圣德，退无被坚执锐讨不义之功，猥蒙厚恩，仍迁至北地太过。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng was generous by nature and fond of articles. He had no heirs for a long time, traveled incognito many times, and often got close to favored and unscrupulous ministers. Zhao and Li were able to monopolize favors from their humble status. This was a constant worry for the Empress Dowager and her uncles morning and night.
The people closest to him could not say much, so they recommended Gu Yong and others to take advantage of the changes in the celestial phenomena to sincerely advise and persuade the emperor to accept their words.
Gu Yong knew that he had an internal response, and there was no need to hesitate in expressing his opinions. Every time he came to the court, he responded with courtesy.
When the memorial was presented, the emperor was furious.
General Wei Wang Shang secretly instructed Gu Yong to ask him to leave.
The emperor sent his censor to arrest Gu Yong, and ordered him not to pursue him after passing the Jiao Dao stable. The censor could not catch up with Gu Yong and came back. The emperor's anger was relieved and he regretted it.
In the second year, Zhao Guyong was appointed as Taizhong doctor and was promoted to Guanglu doctor as Shizhong.
In the first year of Yuanyan, Gu Yong became the governor of the North.
At that time, there were many disasters and visions, and Gu Yong should go to his post. The emperor sent Wei Chun Yuchang to listen to what Gu Yong had to say.
Gu Yong replied:
The minister Gu Yong was fortunate enough to be a Taizhong official with his foolish talent, occupying the position of a minister who was dispatched, following the ministers of the previous dynasty. Jin could not do his best to contribute loyalty and assistance to promote saintliness, and Hui could not wear strong mirror armor and wield sharp weapons to fight against injustice. Thanks to the kindness, he was promoted to the governor of the north.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
绝命陨首，身膏野草，不足以报塞万分。
陛下圣德宽仁，不遗易忘之臣，垂周文之听，下及刍荛之愚，有诏使卫尉受臣永所欲言。
臣闻事君之义，有言责者尽其忠，有官守者修其职。
臣永幸得免于言责之辜，有官守之任，当毕力遵职，养绥百姓而已，不宜复关得失之辞。
忠臣之于上，志在过厚，是故远不违君，死不忘国。
昔史鱼既没，余忠未讫，委柩后寝，以尸达诚；汲黯身外思内，发愤舒忧，遗言李息。
经曰： 虽尔身在外，乃心无不在王室。
臣永幸得给事中出入三年，虽执干戈守边垂，思慕之心常存于省闼，是以敢越郡吏之职，陈累年之忧。
臣闻天生蒸民，不能相治，为立王者以统理之，方制海内非为天子，列土封疆非为诸侯，皆以为民也。
translation: 
Losing one's life and losing one's head to nourish the weeds with one's body is not enough to repay even a ten thousandth of it.
Your Majesty is holy and generous, and does not ignore the humble and forgetful ministers. He listens carefully like King Wen of Zhou, asking questions about the dull people who are cutting grass and collecting firewood, and orders the guards to listen to what I, Gu Yong, have to say.
I have heard that in serving the monarch, those who have the duty to advise must do their best to be loyal, and those who have official positions must practice their duties.
Chen Yanaga was fortunate enough to be exempted from the sin of assuming the responsibility of advocating, and he had the responsibility of serving as an official. He should abide by his duties with all his strength, educate and appease the people, and should not talk about gains and losses.
Loyal ministers are determined to dedicate themselves to the emperor as much as possible, so they will not betray the monarch even if they are far away, and they will not forget the country even if they die.
Once upon a time, Shi Yu was dead, but the remaining loyalty did not end, so he ordered his coffin to be placed in the back hall and used the body to express his loyalty. Ji An was away and thinking about the court, showing his anger and sorrow, leaving a message to Li Xi.
The scripture says: Even if you are outside the court, your heart is always in the royal family.
Chen Yayong had the honor to serve in the imperial court for three years. Even though he was guarding the frontier at war, his thoughts were always in the palace, so he dared to go beyond the duties of a county guard and express his worries for many years.
I heard that the people were born to be unable to govern each other, so I established a king for them to rule and govern them. The one who controls the sea is not considered the emperor, and the one who enfeoffs the land and divides the boundaries is not considered the princes, but is regarded as the common people.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
垂三统，列三正，去无道，开有德，不私一姓，明天下乃天下之天下，非一人之天下也。
王者躬行道德，承顺天地，博爱仁怒，恩及行苇，籍税取民不过常法，宫室车服不逾制度，事节财足，黎庶和睦，则卦气理效，五征时序，百姓寿考，庶草蕃滋，符瑞并降，以昭保右。
失道妄行，逆天暴物，穷奢极欲，湛湎荒淫，妇言是从，诛逐仁贤，离逖骨肉，群小用事，峻刑重赋，百姓愁怨，则卦气悖乱，咎征著邮，上天震怒，灾异屡降，日月薄食，五星失行，山崩川溃，水泉踊出，妖孽并见，茀星耀光，饥馑荐臻，百姓短折，万物夭伤。
终不改寤，恶洽变备，不复谴告，更命有德。
《诗》云： 乃眷四顾，此惟予宅。
夫去恶夺弱，迁命贤圣，天地之常经，百王之所同也。加以功德有厚薄，期质有修短，时世有中季，天道有盛衰。
translation: 
The three unified calendars are spread, arranged in the order of the three righteousnesses, abandoning violence and immorality, extending benevolence and virtue, not partial to one surname, and making it clear that the world is the world of all people, not the world of one person.
The king personally implements morality and benevolence, obeys the laws of heaven and earth, is philanthropic and generous, and favors humble people as much as reeds on the roadside. He collects taxes and uses people's property within the normal laws, and does not go beyond the rules when using the palace, chariots and horses. If things are frugal, property is rich, and the people are harmonious, the hexagram will be harmonious. Five natural phenomena will appear in sequence in time. The people will live longer, the vegetation will grow luxuriantly, and auspicious signs will come together to show God's protection and support.
Those who are immoral and behave absurdly, violate the will of God and harm living creatures, indulge in extravagance and lust, indulge in pleasures and abandon political affairs, obey women's words, kill and exile kind and capable people, abandon their flesh and blood, have villains in power, severe punishments and increased taxes, and people who are miserable and resentful, will be confused. Chaos, signs of disasters show mistakes, God is angry, disasters and visions occur many times, the sun and the moon eclipse each other, the five stars lose their normal operation, mountains collapse, rivers burst, springs gush out, monsters appear at the same time, stars shine, years of famine follow each other, people die young, and everything dies prematurely.
If you never repent and wake up, your sins will spread widely and mutate. God will no longer punish and warn you, but will support virtuous people at the same time.
"The Book of Songs" says: So I looked to the west with care and gave him a place to live.
It is an unchanging rule of heaven and earth to stay away from evil people and take away the throne of incompetent people, and to support capable and wise people. It is the same for emperors of all ages. In addition, merits have their own size, time has their length, eras have their sequence, and the way of heaven has its rise and fall.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
陛下承八世之功业，当阳数之标季，涉三七之节纪，遭《无妄》之卦运，直百六之灾厄。
三难异科，杂焉同会。
建始元年以来二十载间，群灾大异，交错锋起，多于《春秋》所书。
八世著记，久不塞除，重以今年正月己亥朔日有食之，三朝之会，四月丁酉四方众星白昼流陨，七月辛未彗星横天。
乘三难之际会，畜众多之灾异，因之以饥馑，接之以不赡。
彗星，极异也，土精所生，流陨之应出于饥变之后，兵乱作矣，厥期不久，隆德积善，惧不克济。
内则为深宫后庭将有骄臣悍妾醉酒狂悖卒起之败，北宫苑囿街巷之中臣妾之家幽闲之处徵舒、崔杼之乱；外则为诸夏下土将有樊并、苏令、陈胜、项梁奋臂之祸。
内乱朝暮，日戒诸夏，举兵以火角为期。
安危之分界，宗庙之至忧，臣永所以破胆寒心，豫言之累年。
下有其萌，然后变见于上，可不致慎！
祸起细微，奸生所易。
translation: 
Your Majesty has inherited the achievements of the Eight Generations. It is the last season of Yang Number, entering the end of Sanqi, and suffering the fortune of "Wuwang", which is the disaster of Hundred and Sixth.
Three types of disasters are of different types, but they are mixed together in one place.
In the twenty years since the first year of Jianshi, many disasters and visions have appeared in succession, more than those recorded in the "Spring and Autumn Annals".
The writings and records of the Eight Dynasties have not been eliminated for a long time. Then there was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of this year, which coincided with the beginning of the three dynasties. In April, many stars in the four directions fell during the day, and in July, the comet Xinwei swept across the sky.
Taking advantage of the convergence of the three disasters, numerous disaster visions accumulated, followed by famine, and then poverty.
The comet is the biggest vision, born of the earth spirit. The effect of its fall appears after famine and chaos, and wars and chaos arise. The decline is not far away, and cultivating virtue and good deeds may not be able to remedy it.
Within the inner palace, there will be chaos caused by drunken and arrogant concubines in the back courtyard of the palace. In the quiet areas of the streets and alleys of the Beigong garden, there will be rebellions by Zheng Shu and Cui Zhu.
If there is internal strife, then disaster will occur in the morning and evening. If there is external strife, one should be alert all day long, and it is agreed to send troops when the horn energy of Mars is strong.
The dividing line between safety and danger is the biggest worry for the ancestral temple. Chen Guyong was so frightened that he predicted it for many years.
There are hints of disaster below, and then disaster appears above, how can we not be cautious!
Disasters arise from subtleties, and evil arises from carelessness.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
愿陛下正君臣之义，无复与群小媟黩燕饮；中黄门后庭素骄慢不谨尝以醉酒失臣礼者，悉出勿留。
勤三纲之严，修后宫之政，抑远骄妒之宪，崇近婉顺之行，加惠失志之人，怀柔怨恨之心。
保至尊之重，秉帝王之威，朝觐法出而后驾，陈兵清道而后行，无复轻身独出，饮食臣妾之家。
三者既除，内乱之路塞矣。
诸夏举兵，萌在民饥馑而吏不恤，兴于百姓困而赋敛重，发于下怨离而上不知。
《易》曰： 屯其膏，小贞吉，大贞凶。
传曰： 饥而不损兹谓泰，厥灾水，厥咎亡。
《訞辞》曰： 关动牡飞，辟为无道，臣为非，厥咎乱臣谋篡。
translation: 
I hope that your Majesty will uphold the righteousness of the monarch and his ministers and stop feasting and drinking with those scoundrels. In the back courtyard of Zhonghuang Gate, those who are arrogant, arrogant and careless and have lost the courtesy of being a minister due to drunkenness will be expelled and not retained.
Efforts should be made to correct the majesty of the three cardinal principles, regulate the affairs of the harem, restrain favors away from arrogance and jealousy, promote closeness, gentleness and obedience, extend kindness to the frustrated, and comfort and comfort the resentful heart.
Maintain your supreme position and possess the majesty of an emperor. The ceremonial chariots of the pilgrims go out first and then drive out. Guards are posted to clear the road before driving. Do not despise yourself and travel alone, feasting in the homes of your ministers and concubines.
Three aspects have been corrected, and the road to civil strife has been blocked.
The princes raise their troops to cause rebellion, which begins when the people are hungry but the officials do not provide them with support; it arises when the people are poor and their wealth is heavy; it breaks out when the people are resentful and defective but the monarch does not know about it.
"Book of Changes" says: Accumulating ointment will predict good fortune in small things and misfortune in big things.
It is said in the Sutra: If you do not reduce your wealth in a year of famine, floods will occur and you will be in danger of destruction.
"Yao Ci" says: If the door latch is loose and the lock spring is missing, the monarch is tyrannical and immoral, and the ministers behave inappropriately, there is a danger of rebellious ministers plotting to usurp the throne.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
王者遭衰难之世，有饥馑之灾，不损用而大自润，故凶；百姓困贫无以共求，愁悲怨恨，故水；城关守国之固，固将去焉，故牡飞。
往年郡国二十一伤于水，灾，禾黍不入。今年蚕麦咸恶。
百川沸腾，江河溢决，大水泛滥郡国五十有余。
比年丧稼，时过无宿麦。百姓失业流散，群辈守关。
大异较炳如彼，水灾浩浩，黎庶穷困如此，宜损常税小自润之时，而有司奏请加赋，甚缪经义，逆于民心，布怨趋祸之道也。
牡飞之状，殆为此发。
古者谷不登亏膳，灾屡至损服，凶年不堲涂，明王之制也《诗》云： 凡民有丧，扶服救之。
《论语》曰： 百姓不足，君孰予足？
translation: 
The monarch encounters a period of decline and hardship, with disasters such as famine. He does not reduce expenses but increases profits for himself, so there is danger; the people are poor and have no money to provide for the monarch's needs, and sorrow, anger and resentment breed, so floods occur. The city gate latch is to protect the security of the country, and security is about to be lost, so the lock spring is lost.
Last year, 21 counties were damaged by floods and their crops failed to harvest. Silkworms and wheat are not good this year.
The rivers were turbulent, the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers overflowed and burst, and the floods flooded more than fifteen counties.
Crops were lost year after year, the farming season was missed and wheat could not be planted for the winter, the people lost their property and became homeless, and generations of officials guarded the pass and refused to accept it.
The great vision is so clear, the floods are huge, and the people are so impoverished. This is a time when ordinary taxes and self-profit expenses should be reduced, but some officials petition to increase taxes. It violates the principles of the scriptures and goes against the will of the people. This is an approach that spreads resentment and leads to disaster.
The loss of the lock spring probably happened because of these.
In ancient times, if the rice harvest was not good, people would eat less food, if disasters occurred frequently, they would reduce their clothing, and if there were bad years, no houses would be built. This was the system of a wise king. The Book of Songs says: When the people are sad, they crawl on the ground to help them.
"The Analects" says: If the people are not rich, who will make the monarch rich?


Chunk 24: 
original: 
臣愿陛下勿许加赋之奏，益减大官、导官、中御府、均官、掌畜、廪牺用度，止尚方、织室、京师郡国工服官发输造作，以助大司农。
流恩广施，振赡困乏，开关梁，内流民，恣所欲之，以救基急。
立春，遣使者循行风俗，宣布圣德，存恤孤寡，问民所苦，劳二千石，敕劝耕桑，毋夺农时，以慰绥元元之心，防塞大奸之隙，诸夏之乱，庶几可息。
臣闻上主可与为善而不可与为恶，下主可与为恶而不可与为善。
陛下天然之性，疏通聪敏，上主之姿也。
少省愚臣之言，感寤三难，深畏大异，定心为善，捐忘邪志，毋二旧愆，厉精致政，至诚应天，则积异塞于上，祸乱伏于下，何忧患之有？
窃恐陛下公志未专，私好颇存，尚爱群小，不肯为耳！
translation: 
I hope that your majesty will not allow the petition to increase taxes, but also reduce the fees for senior officials, chief officials, central imperial officials, Junguan, livestock stewards, and livestock officials, and stop the production and transportation of workers and uniforms for officials in Shangfang, Zhishi, and Jingshi counties to support the great ministers and farmers.
Liubu's benevolence extended his kindness to the needy, opened doors and closed doors, accepted the scattered people, and allowed them to go where they wanted to go to relieve their crises.
At the beginning of spring, envoys are sent to inspect the folk customs, preach the virtues of spreading saints, condolences and support orphans and widows, inquire about the sufferings of the people, comfort and encourage local officials, warn and reward farming and planting mulberry trees, and not take away the time for farming, so as to comfort and appease the hearts of the people and prevent the obstruction of the opportunity for the occurrence of great evil. The rebellion of the princes can almost be quelled.
I have heard that the Lord can do good with him but not evil with him, and that the Lord can do evil with him but not good with him.
Your Majesty’s natural character, understanding and wisdom are the attributes of God.
As long as you can reflect on the words of the foolish minister for a moment, realize the three disasters, be deeply worried about the great vision, make up your mind to implement good governance, abandon and forget the evil ambition, do not make the same mistakes again, cheer up and devote yourself to governance, and transmit the greatest sincerity to heaven, then the long-standing vision in the sky will be stopped, and the disaster and rebellion on the ground will be subdued, what else is there to worry about?
Privately, I am worried that Your Majesty is not single-minded in his public ambitions, that he is very reserved in his private hobbies, and that he still loves all the villains and is unwilling to pursue them!


Chunk 25: 
original: 
对奏，天子甚感其言。
永于经书，泛为疏达，与杜钦、杜邺略等，不能洽浃如刘向父子及扬雄也。
其于天官、《京氏易》最密，故善言灾异，前后所上四十余事，略相反复，专攻上身与后宫而已。
党于王氏，上亦知之，不甚亲信也。
永所居任职，为北地太守岁余，卫将军商薨，曲阳侯根为票骑将军，荐永，征入为大司农。
岁余，永病，三月，有司奏请免。
故事，公卿病，辄赐告，至永独即时免。
数月，卒于家。
本名并，以尉氏樊并反，更名永云。
杜邺字子夏，本魏郡繁阳人也。
祖父及父积功劳皆至郡守，武帝时徙茂陵。
邺少孤，其母张敞女。
邺。邺壮，从敞子吉学问，得其家书。
以孝廉以郎。
与车骑将军王音善。
平阿侯谭不受城门职，后薨，上闵悔之，乃复令谭弟成都侯商位特进，领城门兵，得举吏如将军府。
translation: 
The emperor was very moved by his words.
Gu Yong was generally as clear and accessible as Du Qin and Du Ye about scriptures, but he was not as comprehensive as Liu Xiang, his son and Yang Xiong.
He was the most proficient in Tianguan and "Jingshi Yi", so he was good at talking about disasters and phenomena. He recounted more than 40 things before and after, with slight repetitions, and specifically blamed the lord himself and the harem.
Being protected by the Wang family, the Lord also knew that he was not very close and trusted him.
Gu Yong was very competent in every position he held. He served as the governor of the North for more than a year. General Wang Shangguan of the Guard and Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, became generals of hussars. They recommended Gu Yong and conscripted him into the capital to be the chief agricultural officer.
More than a year later, Gu Yongsheng became ill. Two months later, a supervisor petitioned to remove Gu Yong from his position.
As a precedent, when a minister fell ill, the emperor granted him a leave of absence, and Shan Shan was immediately dismissed from his post when he arrived in Gu Yong.
A few months later, Gu Yong died at home.
His real name was Gu Bing, but it is said that he changed his name to Gu Yong because of Fan Bing's rebellion.
Du Ye, named Zixia, was originally from Fanyang, Wei County.
After accumulating meritorious service, my grandfather and father were promoted to county governors. During the reign of Emperor Wu, they moved to Maoling.
Du Ye lost his father when he was young, and his mother was Zhang Chang's daughter.
When Du Ye was in his prime, he studied with Zhang Chang's son Zhang Ji and obtained books from his family collection.
He became a man because of his filial piety and integrity.
Du Ye was friendly with the chariot general Wang Yin.
Ping'a Hou Wang Tan refused to accept the city gate post and later died. The Lord was sad and regretful about this, so he ordered Wang Tan's younger brother Chengdu Hou Wang Shang to be promoted to a special rank and lead the city gate soldiers, so that he could promote officials like a general's palace.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
邺见音前与平阿有隙，即说音曰： 邺闻人情，恩深者其养谨，爱至者其求详。
夫戚而不见殊，孰能无怨？
此《棠棣》、《角弓》之诗所以作也。
昔秦伯有千乘之国，而不能容其母弟，《春秋》亦书而讥焉。
周、召则不然，忠以相辅，义以相匡，同己之亲，等己之尊，不以圣德独兼国宠，又不为长专受荣任，分职于陕，并为弼疑。
故内无感恨之隙，外无侵侮之羞，俱享天晁，两荷高名者，盖以此也。
窃见成都侯以特进领城门兵，复有诏得举吏如五府，此明诏所欲庞也。
将军宜承顺圣意，加异往时，每事凡议，必与及之，指为诚父，出于将军，则孰敢不说谕？
昔文侯寤大雁之献而父子益亲，陈平共一饭之馔而将相加欢，所接虽在楹阶俎豆之间，其于为国折冲厌难，岂不远哉！
窃慕仓唐、陆子之义，所白奥内，唯深察焉。
音甚嘉其言，由是与成都侯商亲密，二人皆重邺。
translation: 
Du Ye saw that Wang Yin had a quarrel with Ping'ahou before, so he persuaded Wang Yin and said: I heard that it is human nature to treat those who are kind to you, to treat those who are kind to you, and to treat those you love most, to respond to requests.
Being close but not being treated specially, who can be without resentment?
This is the purpose of the poems "Tangdi" and "Jiao Gong".
In the past, Uncle Qin's country had thousands of chariots, but it could not accommodate his half-brother. The "Spring and Autumn" also recorded and ridiculed him.
Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao were not like this. They loyally supported each other, corrected each other according to morality, treated their relatives equally, and treated their own status equally. They did not monopolize the favor of the country by virtue of their saintliness, nor did they accept glorious positions alone because of their seniority. They divided responsibilities with Shaanxi as the boundary, and jointly assisted the government.
Therefore, there are no rifts of dissatisfaction and resentment internally, and there is no shame of being violated or bullied externally. Both of them enjoy the blessing of God and bear the reputation of being noble. This is probably because of these.
I privately saw that the Marquis of Chengdu, Yite, came to lead the city gate troops, and Shao Ling was able to promote officials like the five prefectures. This is the emperor's express decree to favor him.
The general should flatter and obey the emperor's will, which is even more different from the past. Every matter must be discussed and he must be involved. The will is issued out of loyalty and proposed by the general. So who dares to be unhappy?
In the past, Marquis Wen felt that a trip to Cangtang to offer wild geese made father and son closer, and Chen Ping provided Jianghou with a meal, which made the general more harmonious. Although this kind of contact was between Yingjie Zudou, its purpose was to repel the enemy and eliminate difficulties for the country. Isn't this a far-reaching strategy?
Privately, I admire the behavior of Cang Tang and Lu Zi. I am telling you these private words. I only hope that you can consider this matter carefully.
Wang Yin appreciated his words very much and became close to Chengdu Marquis Wang Shang from then on. Both of them valued Du Ye?


Chunk 27: 
original: 
后以病去郎。
商为大司马卫将军，除邺主簿，以为腹心，举侍御史。
哀帝即位，迁为凉州刺史。
邺居职宽舒，少威严，数年以病免。
是时，帝祖母定陶傅太后称皇太太后，帝母丁姬称帝太后，而皇后即傅太后从弟子也。
傅氏侯者三人，丁氏侯者二人。
又封傅太后同母弟子郑业为阳信侯。
傅太后尤与政专权。
元寿元年正月朔，上以皇后父孔乡侯傅晏为大司马卫将军，而帝舅阳安侯丁明为大司马票骑将军。
临拜，日食，诏举方正直言。
扶阳侯韦育举邺方正，邺对曰：
臣闻禽息忧国，碎首不恨；卞和献宝，刖足愿之。
臣幸得奉直言之诏，无二者之危，敢不极陈！
translation: 
Later, Du Ye resigned from his post due to illness.
Wang Shang became the Great Sima Wei General. Du Ye was appointed as the chief secretary, regarded as a confidant, and recommended him as the censor of poetry.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and promoted him to be the governor of Liangzhou.
Du Ye's official position was relaxed and comfortable, but he lacked dignity. After many years, he was dismissed from office due to illness.
At that time, the emperor's grandmother, Empress Dowager Dingtao Fu, was honored as the Empress Dowager, and the emperor's mother, Ding Ji, was honored as the Empress Dowager. The empress was the daughter of Empress Dowager Fu's cousin.
Three people from the Fu family were granted the title of marquis, and two people from the Ding family were granted the title of marquis.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Yangxin to Zheng Ye, the son of Empress Dowager Fu and his mother's brother.
Empress Dowager Fu even participated in political affairs and took over the power.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yuanshou, the emperor appointed the queen's father, Fu Yan, Marquis of Kongxiang, as the Great Sima Wei General, and appointed his uncle, Yang'an Hou Dingming, as the Great Sima Hussar General.
When it was time to confer officials, there was a solar eclipse, and the emperor ordered the selection of scholars who were honest and upright.
Fuyang Hou Weiyu recommended Du Ye to be Fangzheng, and Du Ye said to him:
I heard that Qin Xi was worried about his country and would not regret having his head chopped off. Bian He offered precious jade and was willing to have his feet chopped off.
I am fortunate to be able to obey the edict of speaking out. Without the dangers of the first two, how dare I not try my best to speak out!


Chunk 28: 
original: 
臣闻阳尊阴卑，卑者随尊，尊者兼卑，天之道也。
是以男虽贱，各为其家阳；女虽贵，犹为其国阴。
故礼明三从之义，虽有文母之德，必系于子。
《春秋》不书纪侯之母，阴义杀也。
昔郑伯随姜氏之欲，终有叔段篡国之祸；周襄王内迫惠后之难，而遭居郑之危。
汉兴，吕太后权私亲属，又以外孙为孝惠后，是时继嗣不明，凡事多暗，昼昏冬雷之变，不可胜载。
窃见陛下行不偏之政，每事约俭，非礼不动，诚欲正身与天下更始也。
然嘉瑞未应，而日食、地震，民讹言行筹，传相惊恐。
案《春秋》灾异，以指象为言语，故在于得一类而达之也。
日食，明阳为阴所临，《坤卦》乘《离》，《明夷》之象也。
《坤》以法地，为土为母，以安静为德。
震，大阴之效也。
占象甚明，臣敢不直言其事！
translation: 
I heard that the yang is noble and the yin is humble, the humble follows the noble, and the noble takes charge of the humble. This is the law of God.
Therefore, although men are humble, they are each the yang of his family; although women are noble, they are still the yin of the country.
Therefore, the rules of the three obediences must be clarified in etiquette and law. Even if one has the virtue of Wen's mother, one must be bound by her son.
"Spring and Autumn" does not record Ji Hou's mother because of the decline of women's morality.
In the past, Uncle Zheng obeyed the wishes of the Jiang family, and finally the disaster occurred when Uncle Duan usurped the country; King Zhou Xiang was forced to face the difficulties of Empress Hui at home, and was in danger of emigrating to the state of Zheng.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Empress Dowager Lu relied on her power to favor relatives and made her granddaughter Queen Xiaohui. At that time, the succession was unclear, everything was obscure, and there were too many changes such as dark days and thunder in winter to be recorded.
Privately, I have seen that His Majesty implements impartial politics, is frugal in everything, and does not do anything that is inappropriate. He really wants to correct himself and make a new change with the world.
However, the good omen did not come true, but a solar eclipse and earthquake occurred. The people heard the rumors and spread rumors among themselves, and were frightened.
According to the "Spring and Autumn" records, disasters use the meaning of sights as words to warn people, so it is about knowing the meaning of one type of metaphor to know other things.
A solar eclipse indicates that Yang is covered by Yin, and the "Kun" hexagram is above the "Li", which is the hexagram of "Ming Yi".
"Kun" is used to imitate the earth, which is the mother, and tranquility is the virtue.
Earthquakes are the result of not keeping your vagina.
The zodiac sign is very clear, how dare I not state these things directly!


Chunk 29: 
original: 
昔曾子问从令之义，孔子曰： 是何言与！
善闵子骞守礼不苟，从亲所行，无非理者，故无可间也。
前大司马新都侯莽退伏弟家，以诏策决，复遣就国。
高昌侯宏去蕃自绝，犹受封土。
制书侍中、驸马都尉迁不忠巧佞，免归故郡，间未旬月，则有诏还，大臣奏正其罚，卒不得遣，而反兼官奉使，显宠过故。
及阳信侯业，皆缘私君国，非功义所止。
诸外家昆弟无贤不肖，并侍帷幄，布在列位，或典兵卫，或将军屯，宠意并于一家，积贵之势，世所稀见所稀闻也。
至乃并置大司马、将军之官。
皇甫虽盛，三桓虽隆，鲁为作三军，无以甚此。
当拜之日，暗然日食。
不在前后，临事而发者，明陛下谦逊无专，承指非一，所言辄听，所欲辄随，有罪恶者不坐辜罚，无功能者毕受官爵，流渐积猥，正尤在是，欲令昭昭以觉圣朝。
translation: 
Once upon a time Zengzi asked about the principle of obeying his father's orders. Confucius said: What are these words?
Confucius praised Min Ziqian for strictly observing etiquette and obeying his parents' behavior. There was nothing unreasonable and therefore nothing to estrange from.
The former Grand Sima Xindu Marquis Wang Mang was dismissed from office and lived in his younger brother's home. He made decisions based on the imperial edict and was sent back to the feudal state.
When Hou Hong of Gaochang left the vassal territory, he automatically severed ties with the imperial court and still enjoyed the title of fief.
Fu Qian, the prince-in-law in the book-making service, was flattering and disloyal, so he was dismissed from his post and sent back to his hometown. Less than a month later, he was summoned back again. The ministers petitioned for a fair punishment. Finally, he was no longer sent back, but instead took up an official position and was ordered to go on missions. He was honored and favored more than before.
As for Yangxin Hou Zheng Ye, he became the king of a country because of his personal relationship, not because of his merits.
Regardless of whether they have talents or not, all the foreign brothers serve together in the palace and are arranged in the positions of close ministers. Some are in charge of the military guards and some control the military camps.
The position of General Da Sima was even set up side by side.
Even if Huangfu is prosperous and Sanhuan is prosperous, the state of Lu will be divided into three armies. It can't be compared to this.
On the day when officials were conferred, an eclipse appeared in the dark sky.
The reason why it happened not before and after, but on the day when the official was conferred, was to warn His Majesty to be humble and not tyrannical, and not to trust only one person. Listen to what he says and obey what he wants. Those who commit crimes will not be punished, and those who have no merit or talent will be awarded the title. The longer it is spread, the more it will accumulate. This is where the fault lies. God wants to use clear principles to wake up the holy dynasty.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
昔诗人所刺，《春秋》所讥，指象如此，殆不在它。
由后视前，忿邑非之，逮身所行，不自镜见，则以为可，计之过者。
疏贱独偏见，疑内亦有此类。天变不空，保右世主如此之至，奈何不应！
臣闻野鸡著怪，高宗深动；大风暴过，成王怛然。
愿陛下加致精诚，思承始初，事稽诸古，以厌下心，则黎庶群生无不说喜，上帝百神收还威怒，祯祥福禄何嫌不报！
邺未拜，病卒。
邺言民讹言行筹，及谷永言王者买私田，彗星陨石牡飞之占，语在《五行志》。
初，邺从张吉学，吉子竦又幼孤，从邺学问，亦著于世，尤长小学。
邺子林，清静好古，亦有雅材，建武中历位列卿，至大司空。
translation: 
In the past, what poets criticized and "Spring and Autumn" ridiculed was this, and probably not in other ways.
When looking at the past from the perspective of the future, one resents it and thinks it is wrong. When it comes to one's own behavior, one does not look at oneself in the mirror and thinks it is right. This is a mistake in strategy.
The alienated and despicable minister only saw it from the side. I suspected that there were people like me in the palace. The changes in heaven are not empty. If you try your best to protect the monarchs of all ages like this, why don't you correct the political affairs in accordance with God's will!
I heard that the pheasant behaved strangely, and Emperor Gaozong was deeply moved; a strong wind blew violently, and King Cheng was frightened.
I hope that your majesty will be more careful and sincere, consider inheriting the prosperity of the early period of the country, and examine ancient laws in everything to satisfy the people's wishes. Then the people of Li will not be unhappy. When the gods in heaven withdraw their power and anger, there is no need to worry about whether blessings and blessings will come in return:
Du Ye died of illness without being awarded an official title.
Du Ye talks about people spreading rumors to prepare for divination, and Gu Yong talks about kings buying private fields, and the divination of comets, meteorites and lock springs being lost. These are all recorded in "Five Elements Chronicles".
At first, Du Ye studied with Zhang Ji. Zhang Ji's son Zhang Song lost his father when he was young and studied with Du Ye. He was also famous at that time, especially good at writing.
Du Ye's son, Du Lin, was a quiet and ancient man, and also had great talents. He was a minister in Jianwu and the highest in the palace, Sikong.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
其正文字过于邺、竦，故世言小学者由杜公。
赞曰：孝成之世，委政外家，诸舅持权，重于丁、傅在孝哀时。
故杜邺敢讥丁、傅，而钦、永不敢言王氏，其势然也。
及钦欲挹损凤权，而邺附会音、商。
永陈三七之戒，斯为忠焉，至其引申伯以阿凤，隙平阿于车骑，指金、火以求合，可谓谅不足而谈有余者。
孔子称 友多闻 ，三人近之矣。
translation: 
His writing skills were better than those of Du Ye and Zhang Song, so people say that the study of writing began with Si Gong.
Zan said: During the era of Emperor Xiaocheng, the political power was entrusted to the family of relatives, and the uncles controlled the political power. Their power was even greater than that of the Lie family and the Fu family during the period of Emperor Xiaoai.
Therefore, Du Ye dared to accuse the Ding family and the Fu family, while Qin did not dare to talk about the Wang family. This was because the situation made them like that.
Du Qin wanted to suppress and reduce Wang Feng's power, but Du Ye relied on Wang Yin and Wang Shang. The same was true.
Gu Yong stated Sanqi's warning, which showed his loyalty. When he cited Shen Bo's story to flatter Wang Huang, alienated Ping Ahou and General Chaoqi, and stated the changes of Jinhuo to seek reconciliation, he can be called a person who lacks integrity but is more than capable of talking.
Confucius said that "you have many friends", and these three people are similar to this statement.


