Summary line 0
Span: 0-39 (score=0.5474)

original:
乌桓鲜卑
乌桓者，本东胡也。汉初，匈奴冒顿灭其国，余类保乌桓山，因以为号焉。
俗善骑射，弋猎禽兽为事。
随水草放牧，居无常处。
以穹庐为舍，东开向日。
食肉饮酪，以毛毳为衣。
贵少而贱老，其性悍塞。
怒则杀父兄，而终不害其母，以母有族类，父兄无相仇报敌也。
有勇健能理决斗讼者，推为大人，无世业相继。
邑落各有小帅，数百千落自为一部。
大人有所召呼，时刻木为信，虽无文字，而部众不敢违犯。
氏姓无常，以大人健者名字为姓。
大人以下，各自蓄牧营产，不相徭役。
其嫁娶则先略女通情，或半岁百日，然后送牛、马、羊畜，以为娉币。
婿随妻还家，妻家无尊卑，旦旦拜之，而不拜其父母。
为妻家仆役，一二年间，妻家乃厚遣送女，居处财物一皆为办。
其俗妻后母，报寡嫂，死则归其故夫。
计谋从用妇人，唯斗战之事乃自决之。
父子男女，相对踞蹲。
以髡头为轻便。
妇人至嫁时乃养发，分为髻，著句决，饰以金碧，犹中国有步摇。
妇人能刺韦作文绣，织氀曷毛。
男子能作弓矢鞍勒，锻金铁为兵器。
其土地宜及东墙。
东墙似蓬草，实如子，至十月而熟。
见鸟兽孕乳，以别四节。
俗贵兵死，敛尸以棺，有哭泣之哀，至葬则歌舞相送。
肥养一犬，以彩绳缨牵，并取死者所乘马衣物，皆烧而送之，言以属累犬，使护死者神灵归赤山。
赤山在辽东西北数千里，如中国人死者魂神归贷山也。
敬鬼神，祠天地、日月、星辰、山川及先大人有健名者。
祠用牛、羊，毕皆烧之。
其约法：违大人言者，罪至死；若相贼杀者，令部落自相报，不止，诣大人告之，听出马、牛、羊以赎死；其自杀父兄则无罪；若亡畔为大人所捕者，邑落不得受之，皆徙逐于雍狂之地，沙漠之中。
其土多蝮蛇，在于令西南，乌孙东北焉。
乌桓自为冒顿所破，众遂孤弱，常臣伏匈奴，岁输牛、马、羊皮，过时不具，辄没其妻子。
及武帝遣骠骑将军霍去病击破匈奴左地，因徙乌桓于上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东五郡塞外，为汉侦察匈奴动静。
其大人岁一朝见，于是始置护乌桓校尉，秩二千石，拥节监领之，使不得与匈奴交通。
昭帝时，乌桓渐强，乃发匈奴单于冢墓，以报冒顿之怨。
匈奴大怒，乃东击破乌桓。
大将军霍光闻之，因遣度辽将军范明友将二万骑出辽东邀匈奴，而虏已引去。
明友乘乌桓新败，遂进击之，斩首六千余级，获其三王首而还。

translation:
Wuhuan was originally from the Donghu tribe.
In the early Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu Maodun eliminated Donghu, and the remaining people guarded Wuhuan Mountain, so they took Wuhuan as their tribal title.
The custom of Wuhuan is to be good at horseback riding and archery. Wuhuan people are mainly engaged in hunting birds and animals.
The Wuhuan people graze on water and grass and have no fixed residence.
They used felt tents as houses, with doors opening eastward toward the sun.
They ate meat, drank cheese, and made clothes from the hairs of birds and animals.
They attach great importance to young people and despise the elderly. They have a strong temperament and are not open-minded.
When he gets angry, he kills his father and brothers, but never kills his mother, because her mother has her own tribe and her father and brothers have no one to take revenge.
Anyone who is brave and strong and can handle decisive battles and lawsuits is elected as the leader of the tribe. The leader is not inherited from generation to generation.
Each town has its own small leader, and hundreds or thousands of towns form a tribe.
When the tribal leader called for something, he would carve wood as a talisman. Although there was no writing, the tribesmen did not dare to violate it.
The Wuhuan people do not have a fixed surname, and the surname is the name of the strong leader.
From the leader down, people herd livestock and run their own industries, and they did not rely on each other.
In terms of marriage, they first rob the woman and live together, sometimes for half a year or hundreds of days, and then give the woman cattle, horses, sheep and other livestock as betrothal gifts.
When a son-in-law follows his wife back to his parents' home, he pays homage to the people in his wife's family every day, regardless of his superiority or inferiority, but does not pay homage to his wife's parents.
After working as a servant in his wife's house for a year or two, his wife's house gave them many things to send their daughter away, and all daily necessities and belongings were prepared for them.
The custom of the Wuhuan people is to marry their stepmother and have an affair with their widowed sister-in-law. However, after their death, the stepmother and sister-in-law are buried together with their original husbands.
In terms of strategy, they listen to women's opinions, and only make their own decisions when fighting.
Father and son, men and women sit face to face.
They think it is easy to shave off their hair.
Women only grow their hair when they get married, and it is separated and coiled on both sides of the head. The headdress is made of Jujue, which is decorated with gold and jade, just like the Gebuyao in the Central Plains.
Women could embroider leather and weave woolen fabrics.
Men can make bows and arrows, saddles and harnesses, and smelt copper and iron to make weapons.
The boring land is suitable for planting Biaozi and Aunt.
The bunches are like fluffy grass, and the fruits are like rice. They will mature in ten months.
When the Wuhuan people saw the flying black beasts being pregnant and giving birth, they used this to distinguish the four seasons.
Wuhuan's custom is to respect death in battle. They use coffins to collect corpses and have mourning and crying rituals, but when they are buried, they send them off with singing and dancing.
They kept a fat dog and led it with a colorful rope. They also took the horse and clothes and belongings of the deceased and burned them with fire to send the deceased away. This meant that they entrusted the dog to escort the soul of the deceased back to Chishan.
Chishan is thousands of miles away in the northwest direction of Liaodong, just like the souls of people in the Central Plains return to Mount Tai after death.
They respected the gods and ghosts and offered sacrifices to the heaven and earth, the sun, the moon, the stars, the mountains and rivers, and those who had a strong reputation among their ancestors.
They sacrificed cattle and sheep, and burned them all to death after the sacrifice.
The Wuhuan people stipulate that those who disobey the tribal leader shall be punished with death; if those who invade and kill each other, let the tribes themselves avenge each other. If the revenge is endless, report to the tribal leader and let the enemy bring horses, cattle, and sheep to redeem his life;
There are many vipers in Wuhuan, located southwest of Dingling and northeast of Wusun.
Since Wuhuan was defeated by Maodun, his tribe has been lonely and weak. They often surrender to the Xiongnu. They send cattle, horses, and sheep skins every year. If they are not ready after the deadline, their wives and children are often captured.
When Emperor Wu sent Hussar General Huo Qubing to attack the left area of ​​the Xiongnu, he moved the Wuhuan people outside the fortress in the five counties of Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi and Liaodong to spy on the Xiongnu's movements for the Han Dynasty.
The leaders of the Wuhuan tribe paid homage to the emperor once a year. At this time, they began to set up Wuhuan captains with a salary of two thousand dan. They held the emperor's talisman to supervise Wuhuan and prevent Wuhuan from interacting with the Xiongnu.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wuhuan gradually became stronger and stronger, so he dug up the tomb of the Xiongnu Chanyu in order to avenge his hatred of Maodun.
The Huns were furious and went east to defeat Wuhuan.
After General Huo Guang learned about it, he sent General Fan Mingyou of Liao to lead 20,000 cavalry from Liaodong to intercept the Huns, but the enemy captives had already retreated.
Taking advantage of the fact that Wuhuan had just been defeated, Fan Mingyou attacked Wuhuan, killed more than 6,000 Wuhuan people, and returned with the heads of three princes in Dandan.

summary:
The Wuhuan originated from the Donghu tribe. After the Xiongnu leader Maodun defeated Donghu in the early Han Dynasty, the survivors took refuge in Wuhuan Mountain and adopted the name as their tribal title. They were skilled horsemen and archers, primarily hunting birds and animals, and practiced nomadic pastoralism without fixed residences. Their felt tents faced east, and they subsisted on meat, cheese, and clothing made from animal hairs. They valued youth over the elderly, had fierce tempers, and would kill fathers and brothers in anger but never mothers, as mothers had their own tribes for revenge. Leaders were chosen based on bravery and strength, not heredity, with towns forming tribes under small leaders. They used carved wood as talismans for commands, lacked writing, and had no fixed surnames, adopting the names of strong leaders instead. Marriage involved abducting women, cohabiting for months, then paying betrothal gifts in livestock. Sons-in-law served their wives' families for one to two years before receiving dowries. They practiced levirate marriage, burying stepmothers and sisters-in-law with their original husbands. Women’s opinions were heeded in strategy, but men decided in battle. They shaved their heads, with women growing hair only after marriage, and wore headdresses decorated with gold and jade. Women embroidered leather and wove wool; men made bows, arrows, saddles, and smelted copper and iron for weapons. They cultivated crops like Biaozi and Aunt, which matured in ten months, and used the pregnancy of black beasts to distinguish seasons. They honored death in battle, used coffins, and conducted mourning rituals with singing and dancing, burning a fat dog with a colored rope along with the deceased’s possessions to guide the soul to Chishan, akin to the Central Plains’ Mount Tai. They sacrificed cattle and sheep to gods, ghosts, heaven, earth, and ancestors, burning the offerings completely. Disobedience to the leader was punishable by death; feuds could be settled with livestock. Wuhuan was located southwest of Dingling and northeast of Wusun, with many vipers.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 33-68 (score=0.6255)

original:
乌桓自为冒顿所破，众遂孤弱，常臣伏匈奴，岁输牛、马、羊皮，过时不具，辄没其妻子。
及武帝遣骠骑将军霍去病击破匈奴左地，因徙乌桓于上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东五郡塞外，为汉侦察匈奴动静。
其大人岁一朝见，于是始置护乌桓校尉，秩二千石，拥节监领之，使不得与匈奴交通。
昭帝时，乌桓渐强，乃发匈奴单于冢墓，以报冒顿之怨。
匈奴大怒，乃东击破乌桓。
大将军霍光闻之，因遣度辽将军范明友将二万骑出辽东邀匈奴，而虏已引去。
明友乘乌桓新败，遂进击之，斩首六千余级，获其三王首而还。
由是乌桓复寇幽州，明友辄破之。
宣帝时，乃稍保塞降附。
及王莽篡位，欲击匈奴，兴十二部军，使东域将严尤领乌桓、丁令兵屯代郡，皆质其妻子于郡县。
乌桓不便水土，惧久屯不休，数求谒去。
莽不肯遣，遂自亡畔，还为抄盗，而诸郡尽杀其质，由是结怨于莽。
匈奴因诱其豪帅以为吏，余者皆羁縻属之。
光武初，乌桓与匈奴连兵为寇，代郡以东尤被其害。
居止近塞，朝发穹庐，暮至城郭，五郡民庶，家受其辜，至于郡县损坏，百姓流亡。
其在上谷塞外白山者，最为强富。
建武二十一年，遣伏波将军马援将三千骑出五阮关掩击之。
乌桓逆知，悉相率逃走，追斩百级而还。
乌桓复尾击援后，援遂晨夜奔归，比入塞，马死者千余匹。
二十二年，匈奴国乱，乌桓乘弱击破之，匈奴转北徙数千里，漠南地空，帝乃以币帛赂乌桓。
二十五年，辽西乌桓大人赦旦等九百二十二人率众向化，诣阙朝贡，献奴婢、牛、马及弓、虎豹貂皮。
是时，四夷朝贺，络驿而至，天子乃命大会劳飨，赐以珍宝。
乌桓或愿留宿卫，于是封其渠帅为侯王君长者八十一人，皆居塞内，布于缘边诸郡，令招来种人，给其衣食，遂为汉侦候，助击匈奴、鲜卑。
时，司徒掾班彪上言： 乌桓天性轻黠，好为寇贼，若久放纵而无总领者，必复侵掠居人，但委主降掾史，恐非所能制。
臣愚以为宜复置乌桓校尉，诚有益于附集，省国家之边虑。
帝从之，于是始复置校尉于上谷宁城，开营府，并领鲜卑，赏赐质子，岁时互市焉。
及明、章、和三世，皆保塞无事。
安帝永初三年夏，渔龙乌桓与右北平胡千余寇代郡、上谷。
秋，雁门乌桓率众王无何，与鲜卑大人丘伦等，及南匈奴骨都侯，合七千骑寇五原，与太守战于九原高渠谷。汉兵大败，杀郡长吏。
乃遣车骑将军何熙、度辽将军梁等击，大破之。
无何乞降，鲜卑走还塞外。
是后乌桓稍复亲附，拜其大人戎朱为亲汉都尉。
顺帝阳嘉四年冬，乌桓寇云中，遮截道上商贾车牛千余两，度辽将军耿晔率二千余人追击，不利，又战于沙南，斩首五百级。
乌桓遂围晔于兰池城，于是发积射士二千人，度辽营千人，配上郡屯，以讨乌桓，乌桓乃退。
永和五年，乌桓大人阿坚、羌渠等与南匈奴左部句龙吾斯反畔，中郎将张耽击破斩之，余众悉降。
桓帝永寿中，朔方乌桓与休著屠各并畔，中郎将张奂击平之。

translation:
Since Wuhuan was defeated by Maodun, his tribe has been lonely and weak. They often surrender to the Xiongnu. They send cattle, horses, and sheep skins every year. If they are not ready after the deadline, their wives and children are often captured.
When Emperor Wu sent Hussar General Huo Qubing to attack the left area of ​​the Xiongnu, he moved the Wuhuan people outside the fortress in the five counties of Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi and Liaodong to spy on the Xiongnu's movements for the Han Dynasty.
The leaders of the Wuhuan tribe paid homage to the emperor once a year. At this time, they began to set up Wuhuan captains with a salary of two thousand dan. They held the emperor's talisman to supervise Wuhuan and prevent Wuhuan from interacting with the Xiongnu.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wuhuan gradually became stronger and stronger, so he dug up the tomb of the Xiongnu Chanyu in order to avenge his hatred of Maodun.
The Huns were furious and went east to defeat Wuhuan.
After General Huo Guang learned about it, he sent General Fan Mingyou of Liao to lead 20,000 cavalry from Liaodong to intercept the Huns, but the enemy captives had already retreated.
Taking advantage of the fact that Wuhuan had just been defeated, Fan Mingyou attacked Wuhuan, killed more than 6,000 Wuhuan people, and returned with the heads of three princes in Dandan.
From then on, Gu Huan attacked Sister Hu again, but was always defeated by Ming You.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, the Wuhuan people gradually surrendered and guarded the border.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, Wang Mang wanted to attack the Xiongnu and mobilized twelve troops. He sent Shuyu general Yan You to command Wuhuan and Ding Ling's troops to garrison Daijun, leaving all their wives and children as hostages in the county.
The Wuhuan people were dissatisfied with the local conditions and feared that the long-term garrison would be endless, so they repeatedly asked to be allowed to leave.
Wang Mang refused to let them go, so the Wuhuan people fled and rebelled, and in turn looted their property. Each county killed all Wuhuan's hostages, and Wuhuan and Wang Mang forged a hatred.
The Xiongnu took the opportunity to lure Wuhuan chieftains to serve as officials and win over others to join them.
In the early days of Guangwu, Wuhuan and the Xiongnu jointly sent troops to invade the border, and the areas bounded by Daijun suffered particularly serious damage.
The Wuhuan people live close to the border. They set out from their felt tents in the morning and arrived at the city at dusk. Every household in the five counties was harmed. Counties were destroyed and people were displaced.
Wuhuan in Baishan, outside the Shanggu border fortress, was the most powerful and wealthy.
In the 21st year of Jianwu's reign, the imperial court sent Fubo General Ma Yuan to lead 3,000 cavalry from Wuruan Pass to attack Wuhuan.
Wuhuan learned the news in advance and all fled one after another. Ma Yuan chased them and killed more than a hundred Wuhuan people and returned to the army.
The Wuhuan people followed Ma Yuan to attack again, but Ma Yuan fled back day and night. By the time he entered the border fortress, more than a thousand horses were dead.
In the 22nd year, the Xiongnu were in civil unrest. Wuhuan took advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness and defeated the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu moved thousands of miles north, and the area south of the desert was completely empty. The emperor bribed Wuhuan with money and cloth.
In the twenty-fifth year, Hao Dan, the leader of Wuhuan in western Liaoning, and other 922 people led his tribe to Fumo and went to the court to pay tribute, offering slaves, cattle and horses, bows and arrows, and the skins of tigers, leopards, and minks.
When he was sent, ethnic minorities from all over came to worship and celebrate in an endless stream. The emperor ordered a grand banquet to be held to express condolences to them and reward them with treasures.
Some Wuhuan people were willing to stay as guards, so the emperor named eighty-one Wuhuan leaders as princes and commanders, letting them live in the fortress and distribute them in the border counties. He asked them to recruit people from their own tribes and provide them with clothing and food. The Wuhuan people then scouted for enemy movements for the Han and helped Mo attack the Xiongnu and Xianbei.
At that time, Situ Peng Ban Biao reported: The Wuhuan people are naturally frivolous and cunning, and like to be bandits. If they are indulged for a long time without anyone to supervise them to surrender and gather, they will definitely invade and plunder the people living there. I am afraid that I will not be able to control them if they are only given to the subordinates who accept the surrender.
I foolishly thought that it would be best to re-establish the Wuhuan captain, which would indeed be beneficial to the Wuhuan people's surrender and gathering, and reduce the country's worries about the border.
The emperor accepted this suggestion. So in Micheng in Shanggu, Wuhuan captains were established again, a military general's office was opened, and Xianbei was also commanded. He also rewarded the sons of the Wuhuan people who were held hostage, and traded with them all year round.
By the time of Emperor Ming, Emperor Zhang, and Emperor He, the Wuhuan people were guarding the frontier and nothing happened.
In the summer of the third year of Emperor An's reign, more than a thousand Wuhuan people from Yuyang and Hu people from Youbeiping invaded Daijun and Shanggu.
In the autumn of this year, Wuhuan of Yanmen led the king Wuhe, together with the Xianbei leader Qiulun and others, and the Guduhou of the Southern Xiongnu, with more than 7,000 cavalry, they invaded Wuyuan and fought with the Wuyuan prefect at Gaoqu Valley in Jiuyuan. The Han army was defeated and the county officials were killed.
The imperial court then sent the cavalry general He Xi, the Liao general Liang Dong and others to attack Wuhe, and they were defeated.
There was no need to beg for surrender, and the Xianbei people fled back beyond the frontier fortress.
From then on, the Wuhuan people gradually became closer to the Han, and the imperial court granted the Wuhuan tribal leader Rong Zhumo the title of pro-Han captaincy.
In the winter of the fourth year of Emperor Shun's reign in Yangjia, Wuhuan invaded Yunzhong and intercepted more than a thousand ox-carts of merchants on the road. Geng Ye, the general of Liao Dynasty, led more than 2,000 people to pursue the Wuhuan people. The battle was unfavorable, and they fought again in Shanan, killing 500 people.
The Wuhuan people then surrounded Geng Ye in Lanchi City. The imperial court then mobilized 2,000 trace-seeking soldiers and 1,000 soldiers from the Duliao camp to cooperate with the garrison in Shangjun to conquer Wuhuan, and the Wuhuan people retreated.
In the fifth year of Yonghe, Wuhuan's tribal leaders Ajian, Qiangqu and others and Julongwusi from the left of the southern Xiongnu rebelled. Zhang Dan, the central general, defeated and killed them, and the rest all surrendered.
During the Yongshou period of Emperor Huan, the Wuhuan people in Shuofang rebelled with Xiuzhu Tuge. Zhonglang attacked Zhang Huan and pacified the enemy.

summary:
After Maodun’s defeat, Wuhuan remained weak, often submitting to the Xiongnu and paying annual tribute. Emperor Wu moved them outside the five counties of Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong to spy on the Xiongnu. Their leaders paid homage to the emperor annually, and Wuhuan captains were established to supervise them. During Emperor Zhao’s reign, Wuhuan grew stronger, desecrated a Xiongnu chanyu’s tomb, and was attacked by the Xiongnu. General Huo Guang sent Fan Mingyou to intercept, but the Xiongnu had retreated; Fan then attacked Wuhuan, killing over 6,000. Under Emperor Xuan, Wuhuan gradually surrendered and guarded the border. When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he conscripted Wuhuan troops, holding their families hostage, leading to rebellion and hatred. The Xiongnu lured Wuhuan leaders to join them. In the early Guangwu period, Wuhuan and Xiongnu jointly invaded, devastating border counties. In the 21st year of Jianwu, Ma Yuan attacked Wuhuan but achieved little. In the 22nd year, Wuhuan defeated the weakened Xiongnu, and the emperor bribed them with money and cloth. In the 25th year, Hao Dan and 922 others paid tribute, and the emperor appointed 81 Wuhuan leaders as princes and commanders, settling them in border counties to scout for the Han. Later, Wuhuan captains were re-established to supervise them. From Emperor Ming to Emperor He, Wuhuan guarded the frontier peacefully. During Emperor An’s reign, Wuhuan invaded Daijun and Shanggu, and later Yanmen Wuhuan joined Xianbei and Southern Xiongnu in attacking Wuyuan, defeating the Han. The court sent He Xi and Liang Dong to defeat them, and Wuhuan gradually became closer to the Han. Under Emperor Shun, Wuhuan invaded Yunzhong, but Geng Ye repelled them. In the 5th year of Yonghe, Wuhuan leaders rebelled but were defeated by Zhang Dan. During Emperor Huan’s Yongshou period, Wuhuan in Shuofang rebelled but were pacified by Zhang Huan. In the 9th year of Yanxi, Wuhuan, Xianbei, and Southern Xiongnu invaded nine counties, but Zhang Huan drove them out. Under Emperor Ling, leaders like Nanlou and Qiu Liju claimed kingship. In the 4th year of Zhongping, Zhang Chun rebelled, joined Qiu Liju, and invaded four provinces. Liu Yu pacified the north. During Emperor Xian’s Chuping period, Tadun succeeded Qiu Liju and controlled three counties. Yuan Shao granted Tadun and others Chanyu seals. Later, Yan Rou killed the Wuhuan captain and replaced him. When Yuan Shang failed, he fled to Tadun. Cao Cao conquered Wuhuan in the 12th year of Jian’an, killed Tadun, captured 200,000, and moved the remaining people to the Central Plains.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 120-157 (score=0.4904)

original:
六年秋，鲜卑入马城塞，杀长吏。度辽将军邓遵发积射士三千人，及中郎将马续率南单于，与辽西、右北平兵马会，出塞追击鲜卑，大破之，获生口及牛、羊、财物甚众。
又发积射士三千人，马三千匹，诣度辽营屯守。
永宁元年，辽西鲜卑大人乌伦、其至鞬率众诣邓遵降，奉贡献。
诏封乌伦为率众王，其至鞬为率众侯，赐彩缯各有差。
建光元年秋，其至鞬复畔，寇居庸，云中太守成严击之，兵败，功曹杨穆以身捍严，与俱战殁。
鲜卑于是围乌桓校尉徐常于马城。
度辽将军耿夔与幽州刺史庞参发广阳、渔阳、涿郡甲卒，分为两道救之；常夜得潜出，与夔等并力并进，攻贼围，解之。
鲜卑既累杀郡守，胆意转盛，控弦数万骑。
延光元年冬，复寇雁门、定襄，遂攻太原，掠杀百姓。
二年冬，其至鞬自将万余骑入东领候，分为数道，攻南匈奴于曼柏，薁鞬日逐王战死，杀千余人。
三年秋，复寇高柳，击破南匈奴，杀渐将王。
顺帝永建元年秋，鲜卑其至鞬寇代郡，太守李超战死。
明年春，中郎将张国遣从事将南单于兵步骑万余人出塞，击破之，获其资重二千余种。
时，辽东鲜卑六千余骑亦寇辽东玄菟，乌桓校尉耿晔发缘边诸郡兵及乌桓率众王出塞击之，斩首数百级，大获其生口、牛、马、什物，鲜卑乃率种众三万人诣辽东乞降。
三年，四年，鲜卑频寇渔阳、朔方。
六年秋，耿晔遣司马将胡兵数千人，出塞击破之。
冬，渔阳太守又遣乌桓兵击之，斩首八百级，获牛、马、生口。
乌桓豪人扶漱官勇健，每与鲜卑战，辄陷敌，诏赐号 率众君 。
阳嘉元年冬，耿晔遣乌桓亲汉都尉戎朱率众王侯咄归等，出塞抄击鲜卑，大斩获而还，赐咄归等已下为率众王、侯、长，赐彩缯各有差。
鲜卑后寇辽东属国，于是耿晔乃移屯辽东无虑城拒之。
二年春，匈奴中郎将赵稠遣从事将南匈奴骨都侯夫沈等，出塞击鲜卑，破之，斩获甚众，诏赐夫沈金印紫绶及缣彩各有差。
秋，鲜卑穿塞入马城，代郡太守击之，不能克。
后其至鞬死，鲜卑抄盗差稀。
桓帝时，鲜卑檀石槐者，其父投鹿侯，初从匈奴军三年，其妻在家生子。
投鹿侯归，怪欲杀之。
妻言尝昼行，闻雷震，仰天视而雹入其口，因吞之，遂身，十月而产，此子必有奇异，且宜长视。
投鹿侯不听，遂弃之。
妻私语家令收养焉，名檀石槐。
年十四五，勇健有智略。
异部大人抄取其外家牛、羊，檀石槐单骑追击之，所向无前，悉还得所亡者，由是部落畏服。
乃施法禁，平曲直，无敢犯者，遂推以为大人。
檀石槐乃立庭于弹汗山仇水上，去高柳北三百余里，兵马甚盛，东西部大人皆归焉。
因南抄缘边，北拒丁零，东却夫馀，西击乌孙，尽据匈奴故地，东西万四千余里，南北七千余里，网罗山川水泽盐池。
永寿二年秋，檀石槐遂将三四千骑寇云中。
延熹元年，鲜卑寇北边。
冬，使匈奴中郎将张奂率南单于出塞击之，斩首二百级。
二年，复入雁门，杀数百人，大抄掠而去。
六年夏，千余骑寇辽东属国。

translation:
In the autumn of the sixth year, the Xianbei troops entered the Macheng border fortress and killed county officials. General Deng Zun of the Liao Dynasty sent three thousand soldiers who were searching for traces and shot. He and Zhonglang General Ma Xu led the army of Nan Shanyu to join forces with troops from western Liaoning and Youbeiping. They went out of the border fortress to pursue the Xianbei people. They defeated Xianbei and gained a lot of people, cattle, sheep, and property.
The imperial court also recruited 3,000 soldiers who were searching for traces and 3,000 horses, and sent them to the military camp of General Du Liao to garrison.
In the first year of Yongning, the leaders of the Xianbei tribe in western Liaoning, Wu Lun and Qizhi Tar, led their tribes to surrender to Deng Zun and offer tribute.
The emperor issued a letter from Shao and granted Ulun the title of king and the princes of Tartar. They were rewarded with different amounts of colorful silks.
In the autumn of the first year of Jianguang, he went to Tartar and rebelled, and invaded Juyong. Cheng Yan, the prefect of Yunzhong, attacked him to Tartar, but was defeated. The meritorious Cao Yang Mu defended Cheng Yan with his body and died together with Cheng Yan.
The Xianbei troops therefore surrounded Xu Chang, the Wuhuan captain in Macheng.
Geng Kui, the general of the Liao Dynasty, and Pang Shen, the governor of Youzhou, mobilized soldiers from Guangyang, Yuyang, and Zhuojun to rescue in two ways. Xu Chang quietly left the city at night, joined forces with Geng Kui and others to attack, attacked the enemy's surrounding troops, and relieved the siege.
Since Yuli killed the governor many times, his courage and determination became stronger, and he had tens of thousands of cavalry capable of fighting.
In the winter of the first year of Yanguang, Xianbei invaded Yanmen and Dingxiang, and then attacked Taiyuan, looting and killing people.
In the winter of the second year, he went to Tartar and personally led more than 10,000 cavalry into the border post of the Eastern Territory. The troops were divided into several groups and attacked the Southern Xiongnu in Manbai. During the battle, the king died in the battle, and more than 1,000 people were killed.
In the autumn of the third year, he went to Tartar and invaded Gaoliu, defeated the Southern Xiongnu and killed King Jianjiang.
In the autumn of the first year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, Xianbei Qizhi Tartar invaded Dai County, and the prefect Li Chao died in the battle.
In the spring of the next year, Zhonglang sent Zhang Guo to lead Nan Shanyu's more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry out of the frontier, defeated them to the Tartars, and obtained more than 2,000 kinds of baggage from them.
At that time, more than 6,000 cavalrymen from Xianbei in Liaodong also invaded Liaodong and Xuantu. Wuhuan captain Geng Ye mobilized troops from the border counties and Wuhuan led the kings out of the border fortress to attack Xianbei, killing hundreds of people and obtaining a large number of people, cattle, horses and various utensils. The Xianbei leader then led 30,000 troops to Liaodong to beg for surrender.
In the third and fourth years of Yongjian, the Xianbei people invaded Yuyang and Shuofang many times.
In the autumn of the sixth year, Geng Ye sent Sima to lead thousands of Hu soldiers to the frontier fortress and defeated the Xianbei people.
In winter, the governor of Yuyang sent Wuhuan troops to attack Xianbei, killing 800 people and gaining cattle, horses and people.
Wuhuan's hero Fu Shuguan was brave and strong. Every time he fought against Xianbei, he always went deep into the enemy's formation. The emperor issued an edict and gave him the title of "leading all the kings".
In the winter of the first year of Yangjia, Geng Ye sent Wuhuan's close desert captain Rong Zhumo and Duogui and other princes to go out to the frontier to outflank and attack Xianbei. He killed many enemies and got a lot of things back. The imperial court gave Du Gui and others below the rank of leader of the kings, marquises, and chiefs, and rewarded them with different amounts of colorful silk and silk.
Xianbei later invaded the vassal state of Liaodong, so Geng Ye moved the garrison to Wulu City in Liaodong to resist Xianbei.
In the spring of the second year, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhao Chou led Fu Shen, the Marquis of the Bone Capital of the Southern Huns, and others to go out to the frontier to attack Xianbei. They defeated the Xianbei people and killed many Xianbei people. They obtained a lot of things. The emperor issued an edict and gave Fu Shen a golden seal, purple ribbon and various amounts of silk fabrics.
In autumn, the Xianbei people crossed the border fortress and entered Macheng. The Daijun governor attacked the Xianbei people, but failed to win.
Later, he died, and the Xianbei people's raids and invasions gradually decreased.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, there was a man named Tan Shihuai in Xianbei. His father was Touluhou. He served in the Xiongnu army for three years, and his wife gave birth to a child at home.
After returning from Tou Luhou, he felt strange and wanted to kill the child.
The wife said that she once walked in broad daylight and heard thunder. She looked up to the sky. A hailstone happened to fall into her mouth. She swallowed it and became pregnant. Ten months later, she gave birth to a child. This child must have something extraordinary, so it was best to raise him up temporarily.
Hou Lu refused to listen and threw the child away.
The wife privately told her parents' family that she wanted them to adopt her and name her Tanshihuai.
When Tan Shihuai was fourteen or fifteen years old, he was brave, strong and resourceful.
The leader of another tribe robbed his grandfather's cattle and sheep. Tan Shihuai chased them on horseback and fought them. He was invincible and chased back all the robbed cattle and horses.
From then on the people in the tribe were afraid of obeying him. So Tan Shihuai issued legal prohibitions and judged right and wrong. No one dared to violate it, and he was finally promoted as the leader of the tribe.
Tan Shihuai then established his royal court by the Geqiu River in Danhan Mountain, more than three hundred miles north of Gaoliu. Tanshihuai's men and horses are very powerful, and the tribal leaders in the east and west all submit to Tanshihuai.
Tanshihuai took this opportunity to plunder the Han border areas to the south, defended against Ding Ling in the north, repulsed Fuyu in the north, attacked Wusun in the west, and occupied all the Xiongnu's original territory. It was more than 14,000 miles long from east to west and more than 7,000 miles wide from north to south. Mountains, rivers, swamps and salt ponds were all under its jurisdiction.
In the autumn of the second year of Yongshou, Tan Shihuai led three or four thousand cavalry to invade Yunzhong.
In the first year of Yanxi, Xianbei invaded the northern border.
In winter, the imperial court sent the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhang Huan to lead Nandanyu out of the border to attack Xianbei and killed 200 people.
In the second year, the Xianbei people broke into Yanmen again, killed hundreds of people, and looted wantonly.
In the summer of the sixth year, more than a thousand Xianbei cavalry invaded the Liaodong vassal state.

summary:
Xianbei, also a Donghu branch, relied on Xianbei Mountain. Their customs were similar to Wuhuan, but they shaved their heads for marriage and gathered by the Raole River in spring. Their region had unique animals like wild horses and horned oxen, whose horns were used for bows. Mink and mole furs were valuable. In the early Han, Xianbei was defeated by Maodun and fled to Liaodong, with no contact with the Han. In the early Jianwu period, they invaded the north. In the 21st year, Ji Xu defeated them, and they later exchanged envoys with Han. Ji Xu bribed them to attack the Northern Xiongnu, and they received rewards. During the Ming and Zhang reigns, they guarded the border peacefully. Under Emperor He, Dou Xian defeated the Xiongnu, and Xianbei occupied their territory, absorbing 100,000 Xiongnu remnants and growing strong. They invaded Liaodong, Youbeiping, and Yuyang, with mixed results. During Emperor An’s Yongchu period, Yan Liyang paid tribute, and the court built facilities for trade and hostages. Xianbei alternately surrendered and rebelled, clashing with Xiongnu and Wuhuan. In the 2nd year of Yuanchu, they surrounded Wulu County but gained nothing. In the 4th year, Lianxiu invaded, but Wuhuan leader Yu Zhiju defeated him. In the 5th year, 10,000 Xianbei cavalry invaded Daijun, burning government offices. The court mobilized troops to guard Shanggu. In the 6th year, Deng Zun defeated Xianbei. In the 1st year of Yongning, Wulun and Qizhi Tar surrendered. In the 1st year of Jianguang, Qizhi Tar rebelled, invaded Juyong, and killed the prefect. Geng Kui relieved the siege. Qizhi Tar grew stronger, invading Yanmen, Dingxiang, and Taiyuan. In the 2nd year of Yanguang, he invaded the east, killing over 1,000. In the 3rd year, he invaded Gaoliu. Under Emperor Shun, Qizhi Tar invaded Dai County, killing the prefect. Zhang Guo defeated him in the 2nd year of Yongjian. Xianbei from Liaodong invaded but were repelled by Geng Ye. In the 3rd and 4th years, they invaded Yuyang and Shuofang. In the 6th year, Geng Ye defeated them. In the 1st year of Yangjia, Geng Ye sent Rong Zhumo to attack Xianbei successfully. Xianbei later invaded Liaodong, and Geng Ye moved to Wulu City. In the 2nd year, Zhao Chou defeated Xianbei. Under Emperor Huan, Tanshihuai emerged. His father Touluhou doubted his birth, but his wife claimed a miraculous conception. Tanshihuai grew brave and resourceful, recovering stolen cattle and becoming leader. He established a royal court by the Geqiu River, subdued tribes, and expanded territory from Dingling to Wusun, covering 14,000 miles east-west. In the 2nd year of Yongshou, he invaded Yunzhong. In the 1st year of Yanxi, Zhang Huan killed 200 Xianbei. In the 2nd year, they invaded Yanmen. In the 6th year, they invaded Liaodong. In the 9th year, tens of thousands invaded nine counties, but Zhang Huan drove them out. The court tried to make Tanshihuai king, but he refused and intensified raids. He divided Xianbei into three parts: east, middle, and west. Under Emperor Ling, Xianbei invaded the three provinces of Youzhou, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou annually. In the 3rd year of Xiping, Xia Zhi defeated them. In the 5th year, they invaded Youzhou. In the 6th year, they invaded three borders. Xia Yu proposed a winter-spring campaign, but the court disagreed. Tian Yan sought to lead an expedition, but Cai Yong advised against it, citing past failures and current poverty. The court ignored him, sending Xia Yu, Tian Yan, and Zang Man with 10,000 cavalry each. Tanshihuai’s forces defeated them, killing 70-80% of the troops. The generals were imprisoned. In the 1st year of Guanghe, Xianbei invaded Jiuquan. Tanshihuai, facing food shortages, attacked the Japanese eastward, capturing over 1,000 to fish. He died at 45, succeeded by his son Helian, who was less capable and lost half his people. Helian was killed by a Han archer. His son Qianman was young, and his nephew Kuixi succeeded. Later, Qianman competed with Kuixi, dividing the tribe. Budugen succeeded after Kuixi’s death. From Tanshihuai, leadership became hereditary. The text concludes that Wuhuan and Xianbei caused continuous border troubles, with no effective strategies to control them.

================================================================================

