Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 3, 6, 11, 14, 15]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
董仲舒，广川人也。
少治《春秋》，孝景时为博士。
下帷讲诵，弟子传以久次相授业，或莫见其面。
盖三年不窥园，其精如此。
进退容止，非礼不行，学士皆师尊之。
武帝即位，举贤良文学之士前后百数，而仲舒以贤良对策焉。
制曰： 朕获承至尊休德，传之亡穷，而施之罔极，任大而守重，是以夙夜不皇康宁，永惟万事之统，犹惧有阙。
故广延四方之豪俊，郡国诸侯公选贤良修洁博习之士，欲闻大道之要，至论之极。
今子大夫褎然为举首，朕甚嘉之。
子大夫其精心致思，朕垂听而问焉。
盖闻五帝三王之道，改制作乐而天下洽和，百王同之。
当虞氏之乐莫盛于《韶》，于周莫盛于《勺》。
圣王已没，钟鼓管弦之声未衰，而大道微缺，陵夷至乎桀、纣之行，王道大坏矣。
夫五百年之间，守文之君，当涂之士，欲则先王之法以戴翼其世者甚众，然犹不能反，日以仆灭，至后王而后止，岂其所持操或誖缪而失其统与？
固天降命不查复反，必推之于大衰而后息与？
乌乎！凡所为屑屑，夙兴夜寐，务法上古者，又将无补与？
三代受命，其符安在？
灾异之变，何缘而起？
性命之情，或夭或寿，或仁或鄙，习闻其号，未烛厥理。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu is from Guangchuan.
He studied "Spring and Autumn" when he was young, and became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty.
He hung a curtain indoors and sat behind the curtain to give lectures. The disciples who entered the school first taught their studies to those who entered later. Some students had not even seen him.
Dong Zhongshu didn't look at the garden for three years and studied his knowledge carefully to this extent.
The bachelors all respected him as their teacher because of his manners and manners when advancing and retreating, and did not do anything that was not in line with etiquette.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he ordered the recommendation of more than 100 virtuous writers. Dong Zhongshu responded to the emperor's policy questions as a virtuous person.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: I have inherited the highest status and the most beautiful virtues of the late emperor, and they must be passed on forever and extended to the endless future. This task is huge and the duties are important, so I have no time to enjoy and rest from morning to night. I have to think about the whole story for a long time, lest I am not thoughtful.
Therefore, I widely invite heroes and talents from all over the country, virtuous, virtuous, and knowledgeable talents who are justly selected by governors, kings, and princes. I want to know the outline of the road to governing the country and the highest principles of the theory of peace and security for the people.
Nowadays, doctors are regarded as the first choice for virtuous people, which I think is very good.
Doctors should think carefully. What I really want to know and ask is as follows.
It is said that the way the Five Emperors and Three Kings governed the country was to reform the system and create music, so that the world was stable. Hundreds of subsequent kings also did the same thing.
The most beautiful music of Yu and Shun was "Shao", and the most beautiful music of Zhou Dynasty was "Shao".
After the death of the sage king, the sound of bells, drums, and orchestras still existed, but the Great Way declined and gradually deteriorated to the point where Jie and Zhou behaved like that, and the royal way was greatly corrupted.
In the past five hundred years, the kings and scholars in power who abided by the old system wanted to learn from the legal system of the previous kings to assist the politics of the time, but they were not reversed, and the royal way continued to perish day by day. It was not until the rise of the later kings that this declining trend was stopped. Could it be that what they believe in is wrong and they have lost the tradition of Tao?
Or is destiny just like this, it cannot be reversed by human power, and it must evolve until the country is in danger before it stops? well!
Doesn’t all the hard work day and night and trying to imitate the distant ancient times have no effect?
So, what was the basis for the monarchs of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties to accept the mandate of heaven?
What caused the disaster?
The reality of life may be death, longevity, benevolence, or despicability. We often hear these names, but we fail to fully understand the truth behind them.

summary:
summary line 0: Dong Zhongshu, a scholar from Guangchuan, studied the "Spring and Autumn" Annals in his youth and became a court academician during Emperor Jing's reign. He lectured from behind a curtain, with senior disciples teaching junior ones, and some students never saw him. He was so devoted to his studies that he did not look at his garden for three years. His dignified conduct earned him the respect of all scholars.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
董仲舒，广川人也。
少治《春秋》，孝景时为博士。
下帷讲诵，弟子传以久次相授业，或莫见其面。
盖三年不窥园，其精如此。
进退容止，非礼不行，学士皆师尊之。
武帝即位，举贤良文学之士前后百数，而仲舒以贤良对策焉。
制曰： 朕获承至尊休德，传之亡穷，而施之罔极，任大而守重，是以夙夜不皇康宁，永惟万事之统，犹惧有阙。
故广延四方之豪俊，郡国诸侯公选贤良修洁博习之士，欲闻大道之要，至论之极。
今子大夫褎然为举首，朕甚嘉之。
子大夫其精心致思，朕垂听而问焉。
盖闻五帝三王之道，改制作乐而天下洽和，百王同之。
当虞氏之乐莫盛于《韶》，于周莫盛于《勺》。
圣王已没，钟鼓管弦之声未衰，而大道微缺，陵夷至乎桀、纣之行，王道大坏矣。
夫五百年之间，守文之君，当涂之士，欲则先王之法以戴翼其世者甚众，然犹不能反，日以仆灭，至后王而后止，岂其所持操或誖缪而失其统与？
固天降命不查复反，必推之于大衰而后息与？
乌乎！凡所为屑屑，夙兴夜寐，务法上古者，又将无补与？
三代受命，其符安在？
灾异之变，何缘而起？
性命之情，或夭或寿，或仁或鄙，习闻其号，未烛厥理。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu is from Guangchuan.
He studied "Spring and Autumn" when he was young, and became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty.
He hung a curtain indoors and sat behind the curtain to give lectures. The disciples who entered the school first taught their studies to those who entered later. Some students had not even seen him.
Dong Zhongshu didn't look at the garden for three years and studied his knowledge carefully to this extent.
The bachelors all respected him as their teacher because of his manners and manners when advancing and retreating, and did not do anything that was not in line with etiquette.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he ordered the recommendation of more than 100 virtuous writers. Dong Zhongshu responded to the emperor's policy questions as a virtuous person.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: I have inherited the highest status and the most beautiful virtues of the late emperor, and they must be passed on forever and extended to the endless future. This task is huge and the duties are important, so I have no time to enjoy and rest from morning to night. I have to think about the whole story for a long time, lest I am not thoughtful.
Therefore, I widely invite heroes and talents from all over the country, virtuous, virtuous, and knowledgeable talents who are justly selected by governors, kings, and princes. I want to know the outline of the road to governing the country and the highest principles of the theory of peace and security for the people.
Nowadays, doctors are regarded as the first choice for virtuous people, which I think is very good.
Doctors should think carefully. What I really want to know and ask is as follows.
It is said that the way the Five Emperors and Three Kings governed the country was to reform the system and create music, so that the world was stable. Hundreds of subsequent kings also did the same thing.
The most beautiful music of Yu and Shun was "Shao", and the most beautiful music of Zhou Dynasty was "Shao".
After the death of the sage king, the sound of bells, drums, and orchestras still existed, but the Great Way declined and gradually deteriorated to the point where Jie and Zhou behaved like that, and the royal way was greatly corrupted.
In the past five hundred years, the kings and scholars in power who abided by the old system wanted to learn from the legal system of the previous kings to assist the politics of the time, but they were not reversed, and the royal way continued to perish day by day. It was not until the rise of the later kings that this declining trend was stopped. Could it be that what they believe in is wrong and they have lost the tradition of Tao?
Or is destiny just like this, it cannot be reversed by human power, and it must evolve until the country is in danger before it stops? well!
Doesn’t all the hard work day and night and trying to imitate the distant ancient times have no effect?
So, what was the basis for the monarchs of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties to accept the mandate of heaven?
What caused the disaster?
The reality of life may be death, longevity, benevolence, or despicability. We often hear these names, but we fail to fully understand the truth behind them.

summary:
summary line 1: When Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he sought virtuous scholars, and Dong Zhongshu responded to the emperor's policy questions. The emperor asked about the principles of governance, the rise and fall of dynasties, and how to achieve harmony between heaven and humanity. He inquired why the virtuous ways of ancient sage kings declined, why disasters occurred, and how to reform governance to bring peace and prosperity.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣谨案《春秋》之文，求王道之端，得之于正。正次王，王次春。
春者，天之所为也；正者，王之所为也。
其意曰，上承天之所为，而下以正其所为，正王道之端云尔。
然则王者欲有所为，宜求其端于天。
天道之大者在阴阳。阳为德，阴为刑；刑主杀而德主生。
是故阳常居大夏，而以生育养长为事；阴常居大冬，而积于空虚不用之处。
以此见天之任德不任刑也。
天使阳出布施于上而主岁功，使阴入伏于下而时出佐阳；阳不得阴之助，亦不能独成岁。
终阳以成岁为名，此天意也。
王者承天意以从事，故任德教而不任刑。
刑者不可任以治世，犹阴之不可任以成岁也。
为政而任刑，不顺于天，故先王莫之肯为也。
今废先王德教之官，而独任执法之吏治民，毋乃任刑之意与！
孔子曰： 不教而诛谓之虐。
虐政用于下，而欲德教之被四海，故难成也。
臣谨案《春秋》谓一元之意，一者万物之所从始也，元者辞之所谓大也。
谓一为元者，视大始而欲正本也。
《春秋》深探其本，而反自贵者始。
故为人君者，正心以正朝廷，正朝廷以正百官，正百官以正万民，正万民以正四方。
四方正，远近莫敢不壹于正，而亡有邪气奸其间者。
是以阴阳调而风雨时，群生和而万民殖，五谷孰而草木茂，天地之间被润泽而大丰美，四海之内闻盛德而皆徕臣，诸福之物，可致之祥，莫不毕至，而王道终矣。
孔子曰： 凤鸟不至，河不出图，吾已矣夫！
自悲可致此物，而身卑贱不得致也。
今陛下贵为天子，富有四海，居得致之位，操可致之势，又有能致之资，行高而恩厚，知明而意美，爱民而好士，可谓谊主矣。
然而天地未应而美祥莫至者，何也？
translation: 
That's what it means. I carefully studied the meaning of "Spring King's first month" in "Spring and Autumn", looking for the beginning of the king's way, and got the correct answer. Zheng is inferior to Wang Wang, and Wang Wang is inferior to Chun.
Spring is the work of heaven. That’s what the king does.
It means that when a monarch flatters Heaven above and corrects his own behavior below, this is the beginning of the kingly way.
However, if a king wants to make a difference, he should ask heaven for this beginning.
The greatest thing in the way of heaven is yin and yang, yang is the virtue, yin is the punishment, punishment is the main force of killing, and virtue is the main force of life.
Therefore, Yang is always in the midsummer, taking birth and growth as its own business; Yin is often in the harsh winter, accumulating in empty and ineffective places.
It can be seen from this that Heaven uses moral education and does not use punishment.
The angel Yang appears, gives alms above, and is in charge of the harvest of the year; he makes the yin enter, hide below, and often comes out to help the yang; without the help of the yin, the yang cannot complete the years alone.
From the beginning to the end, Yang is in the name of completing the years. This is God's will.
The king does things according to the will of God, so he uses moral education instead of punishment.
Punishment cannot be used to govern society, just as Yin cannot be used to complete the years.
To use punishment while in power is not to obey the will of heaven, so the former king was not willing to do so.
Now that the former king's officials in charge of moral education have been abolished, and only law enforcement officials are used to govern the people, is this the original intention of the former king's use of punishment?
Confucius said: Killing people without education is called tyranny.
It is difficult to achieve the goal of spreading moral education to the whole world when brutal politics is applied to the lower levels.
I carefully examine the meaning of "Yi Yuan" in the Spring and Autumn Annals. "Yi Yuan" is the beginning of all things, and "Yi Yuan" is what is said in the vocabulary.
Saying that one is Yuan shows a big beginning and wants to correct its fundamentals.
"Spring and Autumn" deeply explores its origin, but it turns out that it starts with noble people.
Therefore, as a monarch, you must first rectify your heart before you can rectify the court. Only by rectifying the court can you rectify the hundreds of officials. Only by rectifying the hundreds of officials can you rectify the people. Only by rectifying the people can you rectify the four directions.
When the four directions are upright, no one near or far dares not to be upright, and there is no evil spirit mixed in the surface.
Therefore, the yin and yang are harmonious and the wind and rain are timely, all things are in harmony and the people are growing up, the grains are harvested and the vegetation is luxuriant, the heaven and the earth are blessed, and a very rich and beautiful scene is presented, and people from all over the world come to pay homage to the monarch when they hear his virtues.
Confucius said: If the phoenix bird does not come and the river map does not appear, I am afraid I will be finished!
This is because he is sad that his virtue can bring about such auspiciousness, but he cannot because of his humble status.
Now His Majesty is the emperor, rich in the world, in a position that can attract auspiciousness, has mastered the situation that can attract auspiciousness, and has the qualifications that can attract auspiciousness. His behavior is noble and virtuous, his intelligence is bright and his intentions are good, he loves the people and likes the scribes, and he can be said to be a moral monarch.
However, the heaven and earth did not respond, and the beautiful auspiciousness did not arrive. What is the reason?

summary:
summary line 2: Dong Zhongshu's countermeasure explained that heaven sends disasters to warn rulers of moral failings. He emphasized that diligent study and virtuous conduct are essential for good governance. He argued that ritual and music are tools for education, and that a ruler must first rectify his own heart to rectify the court and the people. He criticized the Qin dynasty for abandoning moral education and relying solely on punishment, leading to its rapid downfall. He urged the Han dynasty to reform its institutions, establish a national university, and promote Confucian education to cultivate virtuous officials.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
仲舒对曰：臣闻尧受命，以天下为忧，而未以位为乐也，故诛逐乱臣，务求贤圣，是以得舜、禹、稷、卨、咎繇。
众圣辅德，贤能佐职，教化大行，天下和洽，万民皆安仁乐谊，各得其宜，动作应礼，从容中道。
故孔子曰： 如有王者，必世而后仁， 此之谓也。
尧在位七十载，乃逊于位以禅虞舜。
尧崩，天下不归尧子丹朱而归舜。
舜知不可辟，乃即天子之位，以禹为相，因尧之辅佐，继其统业，是以垂拱无为而天下治。
孔子曰 《韶》尽美矣，又尽善矣 ，此之谓也。
至于殷纣，逆天暴物，杀戮贤知，残贼百姓。
伯夷、太公皆当世贤者，隐处而不为臣。
守职之人皆奔走逃亡，入于河海。
天下秏乱，万民不安，故天下去殷而从周。
文王顺天理物，师用贤圣，是以闳夭、大颠、散宜生等亦聚于朝廷。
爱施兆民，天下归之，故太公起海滨而即三公也。
当此之时，纣尚在上，尊卑昏乱，百姓散亡，故文王悼痛而欲安之，是以日昃而不暇食民。
孔子作《春秋》，先正王而系万事，见素王之文焉。
由此观之，帝王之条贯同，然而劳逸异者，所遇之时异也。
孔子曰 《武》尽美矣，未尽善也 ，此之谓也。
臣闻制度文采玄黄之饰，所以明尊卑，异贵贱，而劝有德也。
故《春秋》受命所先制者，改正朔，易服色，所以应天也。
然则官至旌旗之制，有法而然者也。
故孔子曰： 奢则不逊，俭则固。
俭非圣人之中制也。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures said: I heard that Yao had received the mandate of heaven, and I was worried that the world would not be easy to govern. I did not take pleasure in being the emperor, so I killed and exiled the ministers who disturbed the country. I tried hard to find virtuous people, so I got Shun, Yu, Hou Ji, Gao, and Jiu Yao.
Many sage people came to help him improve his moral character, and many virtuous people came to assist him in fulfilling his duties. As a result, enlightenment flourished, the world was peaceful, and the people were content to be benevolent and happy to do righteousness. Everyone found their place, acted in accordance with etiquette and justice, and moved forward calmly on the right path.
So Confucius said: If there is a king, it will take thirty years to realize benevolent government. This is what he meant.
Yao reigned for seventy years and gave way to Yu Shun.
After Yao's death, the people of the world did not turn their hearts to Yao's son Danzhu, but turned their hearts to Shun.
Shun knew that he could not escape, so he ascended the throne and became the emperor, made Yu the prime minister, continued to appoint the people appointed by Yao, and inherited Yao's tradition and career. Therefore, he handed over his clothes and did nothing to bring peace to the world.
Confucius said that the music of "Shao" is very beautiful and very good. This is what it means.
As for Shang Zhou, he violated God's will, destroyed all things, killed virtuous and intelligent people, and harmed the people.
Both Boyi and Jiang Taigong were wise men at that time. They hid themselves and did not want to become officials.
Those who were serving as officials fled to rivers and seashores.
The world was dark and chaotic, and the people had no peace, so the people in the world abandoned King Zhou of Yin and supported King Wen of Zhou.
King Wen of Zhou obeyed the will of God to govern all things, and appointed virtuous and virtuous people as teachers. Therefore, Hong Yao, Dadian, San Yisheng and other wise men gathered in the Zhou court.
He showed benevolence to the people, and everyone in the world obeyed him, so Jiang Taigong came from a remote seaside to join him, and later became the third Duke of the Zhou Dynasty.
At this time, King Zhou of Shang was still the emperor, and the order of hierarchy was chaotic. The people fled in all directions. King Wen of Zhou was very sad and wanted the people to live a stable life, so he was too busy all day to tilt his head to the west and had no time to eat.
When Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, he first wrote about Wang Zhengzheng, and then recorded various things. This showed the so-called Su Wang who was in a lower position and was virtuous.
From this point of view, the emperor's organizational system is the same, but diligence and ease are different because the times they encountered are different.
Confucius said that the music of "Wu" is very beautiful, but it is not very good. This is what it means.
I heard that the institutional literary style and black and yellow decorations are used to distinguish between superior and inferior, to distinguish between high and low, and to encourage people to be virtuous.
"Spring and Autumn" was written under the mandate of heaven, so the first thing it formulated was to change the calendar and the color of clothes to conform to heaven.
Then, the system of palaces and banners is based on effective laws.
Therefore Confucius said: If you are extravagant, you are not humble enough; if you are frugal, you are simple.
Frugality is not a system of sage moderation.

summary:
summary line 3: The emperor, impressed, asked further about the differences between ancient rulers like Yao and Shun, who governed with ease, and King Wen of Zhou, who was constantly busy. Dong Zhongshu explained that the times differed: Yao and Shun inherited a peaceful world, while King Wen faced chaos. He stressed that the essence of governance—benevolence, righteousness, and ritual—remains constant, but methods must adapt to circumstances. He advocated for selecting officials based on merit, not seniority, and for establishing schools to train talent.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
胡尧兢兢日行其道，而舜业业日致其孝，善积而名显，德章而身尊，以其浸明浸昌之道也。
积善在身，犹长日加益，而人不知也；积恶在身，犹火之销膏，而人不见也。
非明乎情性察乎流俗者，孰能知之？
此唐、虞之所以得令名，而桀、纣之可为悼惧者也。
夫善恶之相从，如景乡之应形声也。
故桀、纣暴谩，谗贼并进，贤知隐伏，恶日显，国日乱，晏然自以如日在天，终陵夷而大坏。
夫暴逆不仁者，非一日而亡也，亦以渐至，故桀、纣虽亡道，然犹享国十余年，此其浸微浸灭之道也。
册曰： 三王之教所祖不同，而皆有失，或谓久而不易者道也，意岂异哉？
臣闻夫乐而不乱复而不厌者谓之道；道者万世之弊，弊者道之失也。
先王之道必有偏而不起之处，故政有眊而不行，举其偏者以补其弊而已矣。
三王之道所祖不同，非其相反，将以救溢扶衰，所遭之变然也。
故孔子曰： 亡为而治者，其舜乎！
改正朔，易服色，以顺天命而已；其余尽循尧道，何更为哉！
故王者有改制之名，亡变道之实。
然夏上忠，殷上敬，周上文者，所继之救，当用此也。
孔子曰： 殷因于夏礼，所损益可知也；周因于殷礼，所损益可知也；其或继周者，虽百世可知也。
此言百王之用，以此三者矣。
夏因于虞，而独不言所损益者，其道如一而所上同也。
道之大原出于天，天不变，道亦不变，是以禹继舜，舜继尧，三圣相受而守一道，亡救弊之政也，故不言其所损益也。
繇是观之，继治世者其道同，继乱世者其道变。
今汉继大乱之后，若宜少损周之文致，用夏之忠者。
陛下有明德嘉道，愍世俗之靡薄，悼王道之不昭，故举贤良方正之士，论议考问，将欲兴仁谊之林德，明帝王之法制，建太平之道也。
臣愚不肖，述所闻，诵所学，道师之言，廑能勿失耳。
若乃论政事之得失，察天下之息耗，此大臣辅佐之职，三公九卿之任，非臣仲舒所能及也，然而臣窃有怪者。
夫古之天下亦今之天下，今之天下亦古之天下，共是天下，古以大治，上下和睦，习俗美盛，不令而行，不禁而止，吏亡奸邪，民亡盗贼，囹圄空虚，德润草木，泽被四海，凤皇来集，麒麟来游，以古准今，壹何不相逮之远也！
安所缪盭而陵夷若是？意者有所失于古之道与？
translation: 
Therefore, Yao cautiously carried out his way of governing the country every day, and Shun fulfilled his filial piety every day carefully and fearfully. As he accumulated more good deeds, he naturally became famous, had outstanding virtues, and was respected by others. This created the principle of gradual prosperity.
Accumulating good in oneself is like a person growing up without realizing it; accumulating evil in oneself is like a lamp burning oil, and it is not easy for people to see it.
Who can understand this truth unless he is a person who understands emotions and has insight into worldly situations?
This is the reason why Tang Yao and Yu Shun gained good reputations, but Xia Jie and Shang Zhou caused people pain and fear.
The consequences of good or evil actions are like shadows following human figures, reverberations following sounds.
Therefore, Jie and Zhou were violent and neglectful, the slanderous people were exploited, and the virtuous and wise people were hidden. As a result, Jie and Zhou's crimes became more and more obvious day by day, and the country became more and more chaotic. However, they were still peaceful and contented, thinking that they were like the sun in the sky, and finally gradually became corrupted and destroyed.
Those cruel and unkind monarchs did not perish all at once, but also gradually. Therefore, even though Jie and Zhou were immoral, they still reigned for more than ten years, which meant that they gradually declined and even perished.
Ce Wen said: The teachings of the three kings are imitated in different ways, and all have shortcomings. Some people say that they are eternal. Is there any difference in the intention of these two statements?
I have heard that the way of enjoying things without becoming sexually immoral and practicing them repeatedly without getting tired of them is called Tao.
The ways of the former kings must be biased and cannot be implemented, so in politics, there are sometimes dark and unworkable aspects. Just point out its biases and remedy its shortcomings.
Although the three kings follow different ways, they are not opposite. They are all designed to remedy mistakes and support decline. The reason why they are different is because the environment they encounter has changed.
Therefore Confucius said: The one who can govern the country without doing anything is Shun!
Shun only changed the calendar, changed the colors of carriages, horses, sacrifices, and clothing to comply with the destiny of heaven. The rest completely followed Yao's way of governing the country. Why should he change it!
Therefore, the king only changed the name of the system, but did not change the essence of the Tao.
However, the reason why the Xia Dynasty valued loyalty, the Yin Dynasty respected respect, and the Zhou Dynasty respected Wen is because when dynasties changed, the previous generation had faults, and this should be done in order to remedy them.
Confucius said: It can be known that the Yin Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Xia Dynasty; that the Zhou Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Yin Dynasty; and that others who succeeded the Zhou Dynasty have experienced hundreds of generations, but this can also be known.
Creation means that what hundreds of kings use are loyalty, respect, and culture.
The Xia Dynasty followed Yu and Shun, but did not mention additions or decreases. This is because the principles of the Xia Dynasty and Yu Shun were the same; the loyalty that the Xia Dynasty advocated was the same as that of Yu Shun.
The root of Tao comes from heaven. Heaven does not change and Tao does not change. Therefore, Yu inherited Shun's Tao, and Shun inherited Yao's Tao. The three saints taught each other and followed the same Tao. There were no measures to remedy disadvantages, so we do not say that they added or subtracted from Tao.
From this point of view, those who inherit the rule of the world have the same way; those who inherit the troubled times have to change their way.
Now that the Han Dynasty has inherited great chaos, it should reduce the literature of the Zhou Dynasty and use the loyalty of the Xia Dynasty.
Your Majesty has sage virtues and beautiful ways. He is saddened by the decline of the secular world and the unclearness of the royal way. Therefore, he elects virtuous and upright scholars, conducts discussions and tests, and intends to raise the virtues of benevolence and righteousness, clarify the emperor's legal system, and establish a peaceful way of governing the country.
I am ignorant and dishonest, recounting what I have heard, reciting what I have learned, and speaking the principles taught by the teacher, just to avoid forgetting them.
As for discussing the gains and losses of political affairs and studying the prosperity and poverty of society, these are the duties of ministers and assistants. The responsibilities of the three ministers and nine ministers are beyond the knowledge of Zhongshu. But I have a strange problem privately.
The world in ancient times is the world now, and the world now is the world in ancient times. They are the same world. In ancient times, the world was peaceful, in harmony, with beautiful customs. Things were done without orders and without restraint. Officials did not Evil, there are no thieves among the people, the prisons are empty, there are no prisoners, the kindness of the Lord has nourished the grass and trees, and spread to the four seas, the phoenix has flown, and the unicorn has appeared. If we compare the situation in ancient times to the present, how can it be so different?
What went wrong that led to this decline? I think maybe it goes against the ancient way of governing a country?

summary:
summary line 4: In a third response, Dong Zhongshu elaborated on the harmony between heaven and humanity. He argued that heaven's will is reflected in natural phenomena, and rulers must align their actions with it. He criticized the Qin for its harsh laws and urged the Han to adopt the Xia dynasty's emphasis on loyalty to remedy the Zhou's excessive refinement. He proposed banning non-Confucian teachings to unify thought and law.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
先是辽东高庙、长陵高园殿灾，仲舒居家推说其意，草稿未上，主父偃候仲舒，私见，嫉之，窃其书而奏焉。
上召视诸儒，仲舒弟子吕步舒不知其师书，以为大愚。
于是下仲舒吏，当死，诏赦之，仲舒遂不敢复言灾异。
仲舒为人廉直。
是时方外攘四夷，公孙弘治《春秋》不如仲舒，而弘希世用事，位至公卿。
仲舒以弘为从谀，弘嫉之。
胶西王亦上兄也，尤纵恣，数害吏二千石。
弘乃言于上曰： 独董仲舒可使相胶西王。
胶西王闻仲舒大儒，善待之。
仲舒恐久获罪，病免。
凡相两国，辄事骄王，正身以率下，数上疏谏争，教令国中，所居而治。
及去位归居，终不问家产业，以修学著书为事。
仲舒在家，朝廷如有大议，使使者及廷尉张汤就其家而问之，其对皆有明法。
自武帝初立，魏其、武安侯为相而隆儒矣。及仲舒对册，推明孔氏，抑黜百家。
立学校之官，州郡举茂材孝廉，皆自仲舒发之。
年老，以寿终于家，家徙茂陵，子及孙皆以学至大官。
仲舒所著，皆明经术之意，及上疏条教，凡百二十三篇。
而说《春秋》事得失，《闻举》、《玉杯》、《蕃露》、《清明》、《竹林》之属，复数十篇，十余万言，皆传于后世。
掇其切当世施朝廷者著于篇。
translation: 
Prior to this, fires broke out successively in the Gaomiao Temple in Liaodong County where emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors, and in the Gaoyuan Hall in Changling, where the emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors. Dong Zhongshu deduced the relationship between fires from heaven and the human world. He wrote the draft of the memorial but did not submit it. The master's father Yan came to visit Dong Zhongshu and read the draft of the memorial in private. He was always jealous of Dong Zhongshu, so he stole the draft of the memorial and handed it to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty summoned many Confucian scholars and asked them to read the draft of Dong Zhongshu's memorial. Dong Zhongshu's student Lu Bushu didn't know that this draft of the memorial was written by his teacher, and thought it was very ignorant.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty handed Dong Zhongshu over to the officials for questioning and sentenced him to death. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to pardon him. From then on, Dong Zhongshu did not dare to talk about disasters and changes.
Dong Zhongshu is honest and upright.
At that time, the Han Dynasty was using troops from surrounding ethnic minorities. Gongsunhong's research on "Gongyang Chunqiu" was not as good as Dong Zhongshu's. However, Gongsunhong catered to the secular world, gained great power, and became a high official.
Dong Zhongshu thought Gongsun Hong was flattering, but Gongsun Hong hated Dong Zhongshu.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was also the brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. He was particularly indulgent, cruel and arrogant, and repeatedly murdered two thousand stone officials sent by the imperial court.
Gongsun Hong told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty: Only Dong Zhongshu can serve as the king of Jiaoxi.
King Liu Duan of Jiaoxi heard that Dong Zhongshu was a famous Confucian master and treated him with respect.
Dong Zhongshu was afraid that he would be punished by accident over time, so he resigned and went home on the grounds of old age and illness.
Dong Zhongshu served as prime minister of Jiangdu and Jiaoxi, assisting the arrogant princes and kings. He set an example for his subordinates by setting an example for his subordinates. He went to the eunuch many times to give outright advice, and formulated edicts to be implemented in the country. Both Jiangdu and Jiaoxi where he was located were well governed.
After he resigned from office and returned home, he didn't care about the family property at all. He just immersed himself in reading and writing books.
Dong Zhongshu was recuperating at home. If the court discussed important issues, it would send envoys and the court official Zhang Tang to his home to ask for his opinions. Dong Zhongshu's answers were all well-founded.
From the time when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, Wei Qihou Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tian successively became prime ministers and began to promote Confucianism. Dong Zhongshu responded by promoting Confucius and suppressing hundreds of schools of thought.
It was Dong Zhongshu who set up officials to manage schools and recommended talents, filial piety and honesty in the prefectures and counties.
Dong Zhongshu died at home in old age. Later, his family moved to Maoling County, and his son and grandson became high officials based on their knowledge.
Dong Zhongshu's works all clarify the purpose of Confucian classics. Together with memorials and teachings, there are a total of 123 works.
There are dozens of articles explaining the gains and losses of the "Spring and Autumn" records, as well as "Wen Ju", "Jade Cup", "Fan Dew", "Qingming" and "Bamboo Forest", with more than 100,000 words, all of which have been passed down to later generations.
I selected the content that is relevant to today's society and the imperial court and wrote it in the article.

summary:
summary line 5: After his countermeasures, Dong Zhongshu served as prime minister to the King of Jiangdu, advising him with propriety. He later became a palace attendant but was nearly executed after a rival stole a draft of his memorial on disasters. Pardoned, he remained honest and upright. He later served the King of Jiaoxi, but fearing danger, he retired to write. His works, including over 100,000 words on the "Spring and Autumn," clarified Confucian principles. He died at home, and his descendants became high officials.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
赞曰：刘向称： 董仲舒有王佐之材，虽伊、吕亡以加，管、晏之属，伯者之佐，殆不及也。
至向子歆以为： 伊、吕乃圣人之耦，王者不得则不兴。
故颜渊死，孔子曰 噫！
天丧余。 唯此一人为能当之，自宰我、子赣、子游、子夏不与焉。
仲舒遭汉承秦灭学之后，《六经》离析，下帷发愤，潜心大业，令后学者有所统壹，为群儒首。
然考其师友渊源所渐，犹未及乎游、夏，而曰管、晏弗及，伊、吕不加，过矣。
至向曾孙龚，笃论君子也，以歆之言为然。
translation: 
Praising day: Liu Xiang praised: Dong Zhongshu has the ability to be an assistant to the king. Even Yi Yin and Lu Wang cannot surpass him. Guan Zhong and Yan Ying are the assistants of the overlord, so I am afraid they are not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's son Liu Xin believed that Yi Yin and Lu Wang were the companions of a saint, and a king could not rise without them.
So when Yan Yuan died, Confucius said, "Oh!"
Heaven destroys me. Only Yan Yuan can compare with Yi Yin and Lu Wang. As for Zai Wo, Zigong, Ziyou, Zixia and others, they cannot be included in the ranks of saints.
After the Western Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty and the burning of scholarship, Dong Zhongshu's "Six Classics" fell apart. So he put down his work and devoted himself to studying Confucian classics, which enabled later scholars to have a systematic and consistent understanding of Confucianism and became the leader of the group of Confucian scholars.
However, when examining the origins of his mentors and friends and looking at their influence on each other, Dong Zhongshu could not catch up with Zi You and Zi Xia, but it is wrong to say that Guan Zhong and Yan Ying were not as good as him, and Yi Yin and Lu Wang were not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's great-grandson Liu Gong is a gentleman who is good at commenting on figures. He believes that Liu Xin's evaluation of Dong Zhongshu is appropriate.

summary:
summary line 6: Liu Xiang praised Dong Zhongshu as a king's assistant, comparable to Yi Yin and Lu Wang, surpassing Guan Zhong and Yan Ying. However, Liu Xiang's son Liu Xin argued that Dong, while a leader among Confucians after the Qin's destruction of texts, could not match Yi Yin or Lu Wang, though he was greater than Guan Zhong and Yan Ying. Liu Xin's view was later deemed accurate.

