Chunk 0: 
original: 
伏湛字惠公，琅邪东武人也。
九世祖胜，字子贱，所谓济南伏生者也。
湛高祖父孺，武帝时，客授东武，因家焉。
父理，为当世名儒，以《诗》授成帝，为高密太傅，别自名学。
湛性孝友，少传父业，教授数百人。
成帝时，以父任为博士弟子。
五迁，至王莽时为绣衣执法，使督大奸，迁后队属正。
更始立，以为平原太守。
时仓卒兵起，天下惊扰，而湛独晏然，教授不废。
谓妻子曰： 夫一谷不登，国君彻膳；今民皆饥，奈何独饱？
乃共食粗粝，悉分奉禄以赈乡里，来客者百余家。
时门下督素有气力，谋欲为湛起兵，湛恶其惑众，即收斩之，徇首城郭，以示百姓，于是吏人信向，郡向以安。
平原一境，湛所全也。
光武即位，知湛名儒旧臣，欲信干任内职，征拜尚书，使典定旧制。
时，大司徒邓禹西征关中，帝以湛才任宰相，拜为司直，行大司徒事。
translation: 
◆It is said in Fu Zhan's biography that Fu Zhan was named Hui Gong and was a native of Dongwu, King of Lang.
The ninth generation ancestor Fu Sheng, whose courtesy name was Zi Jian, was the so-called Jinan Fu Sheng.
Fu Zhan's great-great-grandfather Fu Ru was a visiting professor at Dongwu during the reign of Emperor Wu, so he made Dongwu his home.
His father, Fuli, was a famous Confucian in the world. He became an emperor by teaching "Poems" and was a tutor in Gaomi. He became a famous scholar in his own family.
Fu Zhan respected his parents and loved his brothers. He taught his father's business from an early age and taught hundreds of people.
When he became emperor, he accepted his father as his doctorate disciple.
He was transferred to the official position five times. When he arrived at Wang Mang, he was enforcing the law in Xiu Yi, which made the inspector a traitor.
Gengshi was established, and Fu Zhan was appointed as the prefect of Pingyuan.
At that time, there was a hasty war, and the world was in panic, but Fu Zhan was very quiet and continued to teach.
He said to his wife and children: If the harvest is not harvested in the new year, the king should withdraw from the banquet. Now the people are starving, how can they be fed alone?
So they ate coarse grains together and used the income from their salaries to provide relief to the village. There were more than a hundred visitors.
At that time, the governor was very powerful and planned to raise troops for Fu Zhan. Fu Zhan hated him for confusing people, so he was about to behead him and hang his head on the city wall to show the people. As a result, the officials and the people were convinced and admired him, and the county was stable.
A county in Pingyuan was preserved by Fu Zhan.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he knew that Fu Zhan was a well-known Confucian old official, so he wanted to make him take charge of the internal affairs, worship the minister, and let him review the old laws and regulations.
At that time, Deng Yu, the Great Situ, was on an expedition to the west of Guanzhong. The emperor appointed Fu Zhancai as Prime Minister and worshiped him as Sizhi, performing the duties of the Great Situ.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
车驾每出征伐，常留镇守，总摄群司。
建武三年，遂代邓禹为大司徒，封阳都侯。
时，彭宠反于渔阳，帝欲自征之，湛上疏谏曰： 臣闻文王受命而征伐五国，必先询之同姓，然后谋于群臣，加占蓍龟，以定行事，故谋则成，卜则吉，战则胜。
其《诗》曰： 帝谓文王，询尔仇方，同尔弟兄，以尔钩援，与尔临冲，以伐崇庸。
崇国城守，先退后伐，所以重人命，俟时而动，故参分天下而有其二。
陛下承大乱之极，受命而帝，兴明祖宗，出入四年，而灭檀乡，制五校，降铜马，破赤眉，诛邓奉之属，不为无功。
今京师空匮，资用不足，未能服近而先事边外；且渔阳之地，逼接北狄，黠虏困迫，必求其助。
又今所过县邑，尤为困乏。
种麦之家，多在城郭，闻官兵将至，当已收之矣。
大军远涉二千余里，士马罢劳，转粮限阻，今兗、豫、青、翼，中国之都，而寇贼从横，未及从化。
渔阳以东，本备边塞，地接外虏，贡税微薄。
安平之时，尚资内郡，况今荒耗，岂足先图？
而陛下舍近务远，弃易求难，四方疑怪，百姓恐惧，诚臣之所惑也。
复愿远览文王重兵博谋，近思征伐前后之宜，顾问有司，使极愚诚，采其所长，择之圣虑，以中土为忧念。
帝览其奏，竟不亲征。
translation: 
Whenever Guangwu went on an expedition, he was often left to guard the capital and take photos of all the divisions.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he succeeded Deng Yu as the Great Situ and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangdu.
At that time, Peng Chong rebelled against Yuyang, and Guangwu wanted to conquer it himself. Fu Zhan advised him: "I heard that King Wen was ordered to conquer the five countries. I must first consult the opinions of the people with the same surname, and then seek advice from the officials, and then seize the turtle to decide what to do. Therefore, planning will succeed, divination will be auspicious, and war will win."
His "Poetry" said: God said to King Wen: It is necessary to obtain the support of friendly countries, to unite brothers and friendly countries, to prepare siege ladders, to prepare approaching chariots and rushing chariots, in order to attack the vicious Chongguo.
The city of Chongguo was fortified and did not fall for thirty days. It retreated to repair the government and resumed the attack. Therefore, it valued human life and moved when the time came. Therefore, it was able to divide the world into two parts.
Your Majesty inherited the great chaos and was appointed emperor to revive the great ancestors. He spent four years in and out of town, destroyed Tan Township, controlled five schools, surrendered bronze horses, defeated red eyebrows, and killed Deng Feng's subordinates. It was not for nothing.
Nowadays, the capital is short of space and resources, so it is unable to conquer those close to home and conquers the outside world first. Moreover, in the land of Yuyang, approaching Beidi, Peng Chong is in dire straits and must seek help from him.
Moreover, the counties and cities we passed through today were particularly sleepy.
Most of the people who grow wheat are in the city walls. When they hear that the officers and soldiers are coming, they must harvest the wheat in advance.
The army traveled more than two thousand miles, the soldiers and horses were sleepy, and the transportation of food was difficult. Today Yanzhou, Yuzhou, Qingzhou, and Jizhou are all cities and towns in the Chinese territory, but thieves are rampant and have not yet been naturalized.
To the east of Yuyang, it was originally a frontier fortress, bordered by foreign captives, and the tribute and taxes were meager.
Even in peacetime, it still needs funding from the inner county, not to mention that it is now depleted. Is it worth attacking first?
However, His Majesty is far away from the near and distant, abandoning the easy to seek the difficult. The four parties are suspicious and surprised, and the people are frightened and uneasy. This is very puzzling to me.
I hope you can see from afar that King Wen attaches great importance to military strength and draw on the wisdom of the masses, and to think closely about various matters before and after the conquest. His advisers are well-organized, so that they can be extremely sincere, adopt their strengths, choose them with holy concerns, and worry about China.
After the emperor read the memorial, he decided not to conduct the expedition himself.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时，贼徐异卿等万余人据富平，连攻之不下，唯云： 愿降司徒伏公。
帝知湛为青、徐所信向，遣到平原，异卿等即日归降，护送洛阳。
湛虽在仓卒，造次必于文德，以为礼乐政化之首，颠沛犹不可违。
是岁奏行乡饮酒礼，遂施行之。
其冬，车驾征张步，留湛居守。
时，蒸祭高庙，而河南尹、司隶校尉于庙中争论，湛不举奏，坐策免。
六年，徙封不其侯，邑三千六百户，遣就国。
后南阳太守杜诗上疏荐湛曰： 臣闻唐、虞以股肱康，文王以多士宁，是故《诗》称 济济 ，《书》曰 良哉 。
臣诗窃见故大司徒阳都侯伏湛，自行束修，讫无毁玷，笃信好学，守死善道，经为人师，行为仪表。
前在河内朝歌及居平原，吏人畏爱，则而象之。
遭时反复，不离兵凶，秉节持重，有不可夺之志。
陛下深知其能，显以宰相之重，众贤百姓，仰望德义。
translation: 
At this time, the thief Xu Yiqing and more than 10,000 people occupied Fuping, and the officers and soldiers could not attack. The thief only said: "I am willing to surrender to Situ Fugong."
The emperor knew that Fu Zhan was worshiped by Qingzhou and Xuzhou, so he sent him to the plains. Xu Yiqing and others returned to surrender and escorted him to Luoyang.
Although Fu Zhan was in a hurry, his haste must be based on virtue. He believed that ritual and music were the first in politics, and they should not be violated even if they fell over.
This year, I requested that a village drinking ceremony be held, which was approved and implemented.
In the winter of that year, Guangwu attacked Zhang Bu and stayed in Fu Zhan to defend him.
At that time, the winter sacrifice was held in Gaomiao, and Henan Yin and Sili Xiaowei were arguing in the temple. Fu Zhan did not raise the memorial and was dismissed from his post by Ce Shu.
In the sixth year, he moved to the title of Buqi Marquis, and settled 3,600 households in the city, so he was sent to the country.
Du Shi, the governor of Later Nanyang, recommended Fu Zhan in his poem: I heard that Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty were as close as Gu Gong, so the country was prosperous, and King Wen of Zhou found peace with the prosperity of talents. Therefore, the "Poetry" said "Ji Ji Tuoshi", and the "Book" said "Gun Hu is good".
Du Shi, the minister, met the old Situ Yang Duhou Fu Zhan. He had been determined to learn since he was fifteen years old, and he has never failed.
Previously, when he was in Hanoi, Chaoge and living in the plains, the officials and the people were afraid of love and took him as an example and imitated him.
The situation was changing and the war was fierce year after year, but Fu Zhan was able to uphold justice and integrity and had an unbreakable ambition.
Your Majesty is well aware of his abilities and has given him the important responsibilities of prime minister. All the virtuous people look up to him for his virtue and righteousness.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
微过斥退，久不复用，有识所惜，儒士痛心，臣窃伤之。
湛容貌堂堂，国之光辉；智略谋虑，朝之渊薮。
髫发厉志，白首不衰。
实足以先后王室，名足以光示远人。
古者选擢诸侯以为公卿，是故四方回首，仰望京师。
柱石之臣，宜居辅弼，出入禁门，补缺拾遗。
臣诗愚戆，不足以知宰相之才，窃怀区区，敢不自竭。
臣前为侍御史，上封事，言湛公廉爱下，好恶分明，累世儒学，素持名信，经明行修，通达国政，尤宜近侍，纳言左右，旧制九州五尚书，令一郡二人，可以湛代。
其后步遂杀之，时人莫不怜哀焉。
五年，张步平，车驾幸北海，诏隆中弟咸收隆丧，赐给棺敛，太中大夫护送丧事，诏告琅邪作冢，以子瑗为郎中。
translation: 
Later, he was exempted from retirement due to minor faults and was not used again for a long time. The knowledgeable people felt regretful, the Confucian scholars felt sad, and the ministers privately regretted it.
Fu Zhan has a majestic appearance, wisdom and planning, and is the master of the imperial court.
From the time when a child makes a determination, to the time when his head turns gray, his determination will never fade.
His actions are enough to guide the royal family, and his reputation is enough to enlighten people from afar.
In ancient times, princes were selected as ministers, so everyone looked back and looked up at the capital.
The ministers of the pillars should occupy the position of assistant ministers and go in and out of the palace to remedy deficiencies and correct mistakes.
My minister Du Shi is too stupid to know the talent of the prime minister. I only have a small talent and dare not to do my best to be loyal.
In front of the minister, I served as the censor, and presented a sealed memorial, saying that Fu Zhan was fair, upright, caring for his subordinates, had clear likes and dislikes, had studied Confucianism for generations, had a good reputation, was knowledgeable in classics, cultivated virtues, and had a good understanding of national affairs. In particular, he should be a close minister and receive advice from his left and right. According to the old system, nine states would elect a total of five people to serve as ministers. According to the order, there are two people in a county, and Fu Zhan can replace one person.
This attracted considerable criticism from the deacons. However, the minister Du Shi was deeply favored and said that as long as it was beneficial to the country, he would have no regrets even if he died, so he once again overstepped his duties and risked the memorial.
In the summer of the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was summoned to return to the court, and the minister was ordered to choose a date to confer an official position. Before he could take office, he died of heat stroke due to the summons and banquet. He was given a coffin, the emperor went to express his condolences in person, and sent envoys to attend the funeral and build the tomb.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
侯霸字君房，河南密人也。
族父渊，以宦者有才辩，任职元帝时，佐右显等领中书，号曰大常侍。
成帝时，任霸为太子舍人。
霸矜严有威容，家累千金，不事产业。
笃志好学，师事九江太守房元，治《谷梁春秋》，为元都讲。
王莽初，王威司命陈崇举霸德行，迁随宰。
县界旷远，滨带江湖，而亡命者多为寇盗。
霸到，即案诛豪猾，分捕山贼，县中清静。
再迁为执法刺奸，纠案势位者，无所疑惮。
后为淮平大尹，政理有能名。
及王莽之败，霸保固自守，卒全一郡。
更始元年，遣使征霸，百姓老弱相携号哭，遮使者车，或当道而卧。
皆曰： 愿乞侯君复留期年。
民至乃戒乳妇勿得举子，侯君当去，必不能合。
使者虑霸就征，临淮必乱，不敢授玺书，具以状闻。
会更始败，道路不通。
translation: 
◆Hou Ba's biography: Hou Ba's courtesy name Junfang was from Mi County, Henan County.
Hou Yuan, the father of the clan, was a talented official and served in the Yuan Dynasty. He assisted Shi Xian and others to become Zhongshu, and was called the Great Changshi.
When he became emperor, he appointed Hou Ba to sacrifice his life for the prince.
Hou Ba is reserved, serious and majestic. His family has a lot of money and he is not engaged in property.
Dedicated and eager to learn, he took Fang Yuan, the prefect of Jiujiang, as his teacher. He wrote the "Guliang Spring and Autumn Annals" and taught it for Fang Yuan.
At the beginning of Wang Mang's reign, Chen Chong, the commander of Wuwei, recommended Hou Ba Dexing and moved to the county magistrate.
The county borders are far away, with rivers and lakes on the coast, and most of the desperadoes are bandits.
When Hou Ba arrived, he immediately opened a case to kill the powerful and cunning people, and arrested the bandits separately. The county was quiet and peaceful.
Then he moved to law enforcement, assassinated rapes, reported and exposed powerful people, without any suspicion or fear.
Later he became Dayin of Huaiping, and he was known for his ability in political governance.
When Wang Mang failed, Hou Ba defended himself and made the whole county safe.
In the first year of Gengshi, envoys were sent to summon Hou Ba. The common people, old and weak, cried and blocked the envoys' vehicles, or lay down in the road.
They all said: I would like to beg to stay in office for another year.
The people even warned young women not to have children. If Hou Jun left, it would be difficult to save the children in the future.
The envoy was afraid that Hou Ba would leave due to the conquest, which would lead to chaos in Linhuai, so he did not dare to grant the seal to Hou Ba, so he wrote a memorial to report the situation to the court.
It happened that the reform failed and the road was blocked.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
建武四年，光武征霸与车驾会寿春，拜尚书令。
时无故典，朝廷又少旧臣，霸明习故事，收录遗文，条奏前世善政法度有益于时者，皆施行之。
每春下宽大之诏，奉四时之令，皆霸所建也。
明年，代伏湛为大司徒，封关内侯。
在位明察守正，奉公不回。
十三年，霸薨，帝深伤惜之，亲自临吊。
下诏曰： 惟霸积善清洁。视事九年。汉家旧制，丞相拜曰，封为列侯。
朕以军师暴露，功臣未封，缘忠臣之义，不欲相逾，未及爵命，奄然而终。
呜呼哀哉！
昱卒，子建嗣。
建卒，子昌嗣。
宋弘字仲子，京兆长安人也。
父尚，成帝时至少府。哀帝立，以不附董贤，违忤抵罪。
弘少而温顺，哀、平间作侍中，王莽时为共工。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu summoned Hou Ba to meet him in Shouchun and worshiped him as Shangshu Ling.
There were no historical classics at that time, and there were few old ministers in the court. Hou Baming studied the affairs of the previous court, collected the posthumous documents, and wrote down the good governance laws of the previous life that were beneficial to the time, and they were all implemented.
The lenient edicts issued every spring and the political orders of the four seasons were all established by Hou Ba.
In the second year, he was appointed Grand Situ on behalf of Fu Zhan and was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
When in office, he is clear-minded, upright, and selfless.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Hou Ba passed away. Emperor Guangwu was deeply saddened and paid his respects in person.
The edict said: Hou Ba has accumulated good deeds and has been in charge of the court for nine years. According to the old system of the Han Dynasty, on the day when he was granted the title of Prime Minister, he was also granted the title of Lieutenant Commander.
I have been exposed to the outside world all year round due to my military service, and my meritorious service has not yet been rewarded. I do not want to exceed the obligation of loyalty, but before I could be awarded a title, Hou Ba passed away.
Alas!
So he named Hou Ba the posthumous title of Aihou of Zixiang, with a settlement of 2,600 households. Zihou Yu succeeded to the throne.
Linhuai officials and people jointly built a temple for him and offered sacrifices at all times.
◆Song Hong's biography: Song Hong's courtesy name was Zhongzi, and he was a native of Chang'an, Jingzhao.
His father, Shang Shang, had the lowest official rank when he became emperor. When Emperor Ai was established, he disobeyed Dong Xian and was punished because he did not attach himself to Dong Xian.
Song Hong was young and docile. He served as an attendant during the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, and served as Gonggong during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
赤眉入长安，遣使征弘，逼迫不得已，行至渭桥，自投于水，家人救得出，因佯死获免。
光武即位，征拜太中大夫。
建武二年，代王梁为大司空，封栒邑侯。
所得租奉分赡九族，家无资产，以清行致称。
徙封宣平侯。
帝尝问弘通博之士，弘乃荐沛国醒谭才学洽闻，几能及杨雄、刘向父子。
于是召谭拜议郎、给事中。
帝每宴，辄令鼓琴，好其繁声。
弘闻之不悦，悔于荐举，伺谭内出，正朝服坐府上，遣吏召之。
谭至，不与席而让之曰： 吾所以荐子者，欲令辅国家以道德也，而今数进郑声以乱《雅》、《颂》，非忠正者也。
能自改邪？
将令相举以法乎？
谭顿首辞谢，良久乃遣之。
后大会群臣，帝使谭鼓琴，谭见弘，失其常度。
帝怪而问之。
弘乃离席免冠谢曰： 臣所以荐醒谭者，望能以忠正导主，而令朝廷耽悦郑声，臣之罪也。
帝改容谢，使反服，其后遂不复令谭给事中。
弘推进贤士冯翊桓梁三十余人，或相及为公卿者。
translation: 
Chimei entered Chang'an and sent envoys to recruit Song Hong. He had no choice but to commit suicide. When he reached Weiqiao, he threw himself into the water. His family rescued him and he was spared by pretending to be dead.
Guangwu ascended the throne and was worshiped as Taizhong doctor.
In the second year of Jianwu, Wang Liang was granted the title of Grand Sikong and was granted the title of Marquis of Yi.
The rent earned is divided among the nine clans. The family has no assets and is known for its honesty.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanping.
The emperor once asked Song Hong who was the most knowledgeable scholar, so Song Hong recommended Huan Tan of Pei State, who was rich in knowledge and knowledge, almost comparable to Yang Xiong and Liu Xiang and his son.
So he called Huan Tan to worship him as Yilang and gave him the title of Shizhong.
The emperor ordered him to play drums and harps every time he held a banquet, and he loved the sound of the music.
Song Hong was unhappy when he heard that he regretted recommending him. When Huan Tan came out, Song Hong sat in his house wearing neat court clothes and sent someone to summon Huan Tan.
When Huan Tan arrived, he criticized him before he could sit down and said: "The reason why I recommend you is that you can help the country with morality. Now you have interfered with Zheng Sheng several times to mess with "Ya" and "Song". This is not a sign of loyalty."
Can you correct it yourself?
Or should we use Dharma to uplift others?
Huan Tan thanked him and waited for a long time before letting him go.
After the meeting with the ministers, the emperor asked Huan Tan to play the harp. When Huan Tan saw Song Hong, he lost his normal state.
The emperor asked strangely.
Song Hong then left the table, took off his hat and thanked him, saying: "The reason why I recommend Huan Tan is that I hope he can lead your majesty with loyalty and integrity. But now the court is obsessed with Zheng Sheng. This is my fault."
The emperor changed his appearance and thanked him, so that he refused to accept it. After that, he no longer ordered Huan Tan to do anything for him.
There were more than 30 sages Feng Yi and Huan Liang in Hongjin of Song Dynasty, some of whom succeeded them as public ministers.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
弘当宴见，御坐新屏风，图画列女，帝数顾视之。
弘正容言曰： 未见好德如好色者。
帝即为彻之。
笑谓弘曰： 闻义则服，可乎？
对曰： 陛下进德，臣不胜其喜。
时帝姊湖阳公主新寡，帝与共论朝臣，微观其竭。
主曰： 宋公威容德器，群臣莫及。
帝曰： 方且图之。
后弘被引见，帝令主坐屏风后，因谓弘曰： 谚言贵易交，富易妻，人情乎？
弘曰： 臣闻贫贱之知不可忘，糟糠之妻不下堂。
帝顾谓主曰： 事不谐矣。
颍川荀爽深以为美，时人亦服焉。
论曰：中兴以后，居台相总权衡多矣，其能以任职取名者，岂非先远业后小数哉？
故惠公造次，急于乡射之礼；君房入朝，先奏宽大之令。
夫器博者无近用，道长者其功远，盖志士仁人所为根心者也。
君子以之得，固贵矣；以之失，亦得矣。
宋弘止繁声，戒淫色，其有《关雎》之风乎！
translation: 
When Song Hong held a banquet, the emperor sat on a new screen with a portrait of a woman. The emperor looked at her many times.
Song Hong said seriously: I have never seen anyone who loves virtue as much as he loves sex.
The emperor immediately ordered the images to be removed.
He smiled and said to Song Hong: "I obey righteousness when I hear it, is that okay?"
Song Hong replied: "Your Majesty can improve your virtue, I am very happy."
At that time, the emperor's sister, Princess Huyang, was newly widowed. The emperor commented with her on the courtiers and quietly observed her intentions.
The princess said: Song Hongwei's virtues are beyond the reach of other ministers.
The emperor said: I will find him.
Later, Song Hong was introduced. The emperor ordered the princess to sit behind the screen and said to Song Hong: As the saying goes, when you get rich, you change your friends, and when you get rich, you marry a new wife. Is this human nature?
Song Hong said: I heard that friends of the poor and the humble should not be forgotten, and the wife of the poor should not go to the court.
The emperor turned around and said to the princess: "The matter can't be done."
In the fifth year of Song Hong's reign, he was exempted from returning to the mansion because of the evidence that the Shangdang prefect was innocent. He died a few years later without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
The historian commented: After the ZTE, there were many people who held the power of the country as prime ministers and assistants. Don't those who gain fame and fame by holding office first pay attention to morality and etiquette, and then pay attention to fame and law?
Therefore, when Hui Gong was in a hurry, he first lectured on the etiquette of shooting in the countryside; when the king entered the court, he first gave an order of leniency.
Generally speaking, tools with great awareness and emotion have no short-term use, but those with Taoist priests have far-reaching achievements. This is probably the root of the benevolence of people with lofty ideals.
When a gentleman practices morality and righteousness, he gains something, which is called a gain; when he practices morality and righteousness, he loses something, which can also be called a gain.
Song Hong forbade promiscuous speech and obscenity, which was the intention of "Guan Sui" to promote talents.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
蔡茂字子礼，河内怀人也。
哀、平间以儒学显，征试博士，对策陈灾异，以高等擢拜议郎，迁侍中。
遇王莽居摄，以病自免，不仕莽朝。
会天下扰乱，茂素与窦融善，因避难归之。融欲以为张掖太守，固辞不就；每所饷给，计口取足而已。
后与融俱征，复拜议郎，再迁广汉太守，有政绩称。
时阴氏宾客在郡界多犯吏禁，茂辄纠案，无所回避。
会洛阳令董宣举纠湖阳公主，帝始怒收宣，既而赦之。
茂喜宣刚正，欲令朝廷禁制贵戚，乃上书曰： 臣闻兴化致教，必由进善；康国宁人，莫大理恶。
陛下圣德系兴，再隆大命，即位以来，四海晏然。
诚宜夙兴夜寐，虽休勿休。
然顷者贵戚椒房之家，数因恩势，干犯吏禁，杀人不死，伤人不论。
臣恐绳墨弃而不用，斧斤废而不举。
近湖阳公主奴杀人西市，而与主共舆，出入宫省，逋罪积日，冤魂不报。
洛阳令董宣，直道不顾，干主讨奸。
陛下不先澄审，召欲加。
当宣受怒之初，京师侧耳；及其蒙宥，天下试目。
今者，外戚憍逸，宾客放滥，宜敕有司案理奸罪，使执平之吏永申其用，以厌远近不缉之情。
translation: 
◆Cai Mao Chuan Cai Mao, courtesy name Zili, was born in Hanoi.
During the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, he was well-known for his Confucianism. He was recruited and tested to be a doctor, and he explained the countermeasures to disasters. With outstanding performance, he was promoted to Yilang and moved to the imperial court.
When Wang Mang stayed and took photos, Cai Mao voluntarily dismissed him because he was ill and refused to serve as an official under Wang Mang.
When the world was in turmoil, Cai Mao had always been friendly with Dou Rong, so he took refuge with Dou Rong. Dou Rong wanted to make him the prefect of Zhangye, but Cai Mao refused to take office. He only took enough rations every time he was paid.
Later, he and Dou Rong were both recruited, and then paid homage to Yilang, and then moved to Guanghan as governor, with good political achievements.
At that time, guests of the Yin family often violated official bans in the county. Cai Mao did not avoid any dispute cases.
It happened that Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to correct Princess Huyang. The emperor became angry and arrested Dong Xuan, but later pardoned her.
Cai Mao liked Dong Xuan's uprightness and wanted the court to prohibit and restrict the illegal behavior of his relatives, so he wrote a letter saying: "When I hear that people are enlightened and want to teach, they must start with doing good; for people in Kang Guoning, the most important thing is to deal with evil people."
His Majesty's virtue has flourished, and he has once again inherited his great mission. Since he came to the throne, he has been prosperous all over the world.
You should get up early and go to bed late, and don't rest when you should.
However, recently, the family of nobles, concubines, and concubines have relied on their favors many times to violate official regulations, killing people without the death penalty, and injuring others without punishment.
I am afraid that laws and regulations will be abandoned and punishments will not be used.
Recently, the slave of the Princess of Huyang killed someone in the Western Market, and he rode in a carriage with the princess, going in and out of the palace, and escaped for many days without being punished.
Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to handle the case according to the right way, regardless of the powerful, and to attack the murderer of the princess.
Your Majesty did not investigate first, but wanted to flog him more.
When Dong Xuan was angry with His Majesty, the capital paid close attention to him; when Your Majesty pardoned him, everyone in the world watched.
Nowadays, the foreign relatives are arrogant and have too many guests. We should order someone to handle the crime of adultery so that the just officials can always gain credibility and restrain illegal activities near and far.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
光武纳之。
建武二十年，代戴涉为司徒，在职清俭匪懈。
在官三年卒，诏书慜惜，赐车一乘，钱四十万。
冯勤字伟伯，魏郡繁阳人也。
曾祖父扬，宣帝时为弘农太守。
有八子，皆为二千石，赵魏间荣之，号曰 万石君 焉。
兄弟形皆伟壮，唯勤祖父偃，长不满七尺，常自耻短陋，恐子孙之似也，乃为子伉娶长妻。
伉生勤，长八尺三寸。
八岁善计。
初为太守铫期功曹，有高能称。
期常从光武征伐，政事一以委勤。
勤同县冯巡等举兵应光武，谋未成而为豪右焦廉等所反，勤乃率将老母、兄弟及宗亲归期，期悉以为腹心，荐于光武。
初未被用，后乃除为郎中，给事尚书。
以图议军粮，在事精勤，遂见亲识。
每引进，帝辄顾谓左右曰： 佳乎吏也！
由是使典诸侯封事。
勤差量功次轻重，国土远近，地势丰薄，不相逾越，莫不厌服焉。
自是封爵之制，非勤不定。
translation: 
Guangwu accepted it.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, he replaced Dai She as Situ. He was honest, frugal and uncompromising in his duties.
He died in his post in the twenty-third year at the age of seventy-two. He was given a coffin in Dongyuan, and the funeral money was generous.
◆Feng Qin's biography: Feng Qin was named Wei Bo and was a native of Fanyang, Wei County.
Great-grandfather Feng Yang was the prefect of Hongnong during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
He had eight sons, each with two thousand stones. Zhao and Wei were very proud of him and called him Lord Wanshi.
All the brothers were strong, but Feng Qin's grandfather, Feng Yan, was less than seven feet tall. He was often ashamed of his short stature, fearing that his descendants would also be short, so he married his son Feng and his wife to a tall wife.
Feng Qin, the son of Feng and his wife, was eight feet three inches tall.
You can do arithmetic at the age of eight.
At first, he was the governor of Yaoqi, a meritorious officer, and had the title of capable person.
Yaoqi often went on expeditions from Guangwu, and entrusted all political affairs to Feng Qin.
Feng Qin and the county people Feng Xun and others raised troops to respond to Guangwu, but the plan failed and was opposed by the powerful right Jiao Lian and others. Feng Qin then led his mother, brothers and clan relatives to join Yaoqi. Yaoqi regarded them as confidants and recommended them to Guangwu.
He was not appointed at first, but later he was appointed as a doctor and served as a minister.
He was able to negotiate military supplies and was shrewd and diligent in doing things, so he was valued by Guangwu's cronies.
Every time he was introduced, the emperor always said to his left and right: "What a good official!"
As a result, Feng Qin was asked to examine the Jin feudal issues of the princes.
Feng Qin weighed the importance of merit, the distance of the country, the richness of the terrain, and made the reward consistent with the merit without exceeding it, which convinced everyone.
From then on, the system of nobility had to be reviewed and approved by Feng Qin.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝益以为能，尚书众事，皆令总录之。
司徒侯霸荐前梁令阎杨。
杨素有讥议，帝常嫌之，既见霸奏，疑其有奸，大怒，赐霸玺书曰： 崇山、幽都何可偶，黄钺一下无处所。
欲以身试法邪？将杀身以成仁邪？
使勤奉策至司徒府。
勤还，陈霸本意，申释事理，帝意稍解，拜勤尚书仆射。
职事十五年，以勤劳赐爵关内侯。
迁尚书令，拜大司农，三岁迁司徒。
先是，三公多见罪退，帝贤勤，欲令以善自终，乃因宴见从容戒之曰： 朱浮上不忠于君，下陵轹同列，竟以中伤至今，死生吉凶未可知，岂不惜哉！
人臣放逐受诛，虽复追加赏赐赙祭，不足以偿不訾之身。
忠臣孝子，览照前世，以为镜诫。
能尽忠于国，事君无二，则爵赏光乎当世，功名列于不朽，可不勉哉！
勤愈恭约尽忠，号称任职。
勤母年八十，每会见，诏敕勿拜，令御者扶上殿，顾谓诸王主曰： 使勤贵宠者，此母也。
卯延光中为侍中，薨，子留嗣。
translation: 
The emperor thought that he was capable and ordered him to record all the affairs of the minister.
Situ Houba recommended Yan Yang, the former Liang commander.
Yan Yang was always ridiculed, and the emperor disliked him very much. When he saw Hou Ba's memorial, he suspected him of treachery. He was furious and sent a seal to Hou Ba, saying: "Do you think there is any place in Chongshan or Youdu that I can settle down?" Huang Yue suddenly had no place to go.
Do you want to test the law with your own body, or do you want to kill yourself to achieve benevolence?
He sent Feng Qin to Situ's mansion with the policy letter.
Feng Qin came back, stated Hou Ba's original intention, and explained the reasons for it. The emperor was a little more lenient and worshiped Feng Qin as the minister.
After serving for fifteen years, he was awarded the title of Marquis of Guannei for his hard work.
He moved to Shangshu Ling and became a minister of agricultural affairs. Three years later, he moved to Situ.
First, many of the three princes resigned because of their crimes. The emperor regarded Feng Qin as a virtuous person and wanted him to start well and end well. So he calmly warned him during the banquet and said: "Zhu Fu was not loyal to the emperor above and bullied his colleagues below. He actually slandered him until now. It is unknown whether he will live or die. Isn't it a pity!"
The ministers were exiled and punished, and although they were given additional rewards and sacrifices, they were still not enough to repay the immeasurable body.
Loyal ministers and filial sons look at their past lives as a warning.
If you can be loyal to the country and serve the emperor without any second thoughts, then the honors and honors will be glorious in this world, and the fame will be immortal. Shouldn't you encourage it?
Feng Qin became more respectful and conscientious in serving the country with loyalty, and was known as his official.
Feng Qin's mother was eighty years old. Every time she met, he ordered her not to bow. She ordered her attendants to help her go to the palace and face the kings and princesses and say: "It is this old mother who favors Feng Qin."
He is so respected. When he passed away in the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the emperor mourned him and sent envoys to express his condolences. He also gave him a coffin in Dongyuan, which was a generous gift.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
赵憙字伯阳，南阳宛人也。
少有节操。
从兄为人所杀，无子，憙年十五，常思报之。
乃挟兵结客，后遂往复仇。
而仇家皆疾病，无相距者。
憙以因疾报杀，非仁者心，且释之而去。
顾谓仇曰： 尔曹若健，远相避也。
仇皆卧自搏。
后病愈，悉自缚诣憙，憙不与相见，后竟杀之。
更始即位，舞阴大姓李氏拥城不下，更始遣柱天将军李宝降之，不肯，云： 闻宛之赵氏有孤孙憙，信义著名，愿得降之。
更始乃征憙。憙年未二十，既引见，更始笑曰： 茧栗犊，岂能负重致远乎？
即除为郎中，行偏将军事，使诣舞阴，而李氏遂降。
憙因进入颍川，击诸不下者，历汝南界，还宛。
更始大悦，谓憙曰： 卿名家驹，努力勉之。
会王莽遣王寻、王邑将兵出关，更始乃拜憙为五威偏将军，使助诸将拒寻、邑于昆阳。
光武破寻、邑，憙被创，有战劳，还拜中郎将，封勇功侯。
translation: 
◆Zhao Xi's biography: Zhao Xi's courtesy name is Boyang, and he was a native of Wan, Nanyang County.
There is integrity when you are young.
His cousin was killed and he had no children. Zhao Xi was only fifteen years old and often wanted to take revenge.
So he practiced weapons, entertained guests, and later went out for revenge.
The enemies were all sick and no one could resist.
Zhao Xi thought that killing someone in revenge for illness was not the behavior of a benevolent person, so he let him go for the time being.
Turn back and say to your enemies: If you recover from your illness, you should stay away from me.
The enemies all lay down and kowtowed to apologize.
After they recovered from their illness, they all came to see Zhao Xi. Zhao Xi refused to meet them and later killed them.
Gengshi came to the throne, and the Li family of Wucheng held the city and refused to surrender. Gengshi sent General Li Bao of Zhutian to recruit him to surrender, but Li refused and said: I heard that the Zhao family of Wan has an orphan grandson Zhao Xi who is famous for his faith and is willing to surrender to him.
Gengshi recruited Zhao Xi, who was less than twenty years old. After the introduction, Gengshi smiled and said: "You are still a child, how can you carry a heavy burden and carry a long distance?"
He was appointed as a doctor and acted as a military general. He was asked to go to Wuyin, and Li surrendered to him.
Therefore, Zhao Xi entered Yingchuan, attacked those who refused to surrender, reached the border of Runan, and returned to Wan.
Gengshi was overjoyed and said to Zhao Xi: "You are really a great talent, please work hard and encourage me."
It happened that Wang Mang sent Wang Xun and Wang Yi to lead their troops out of the pass. Gengshi worshiped Zhao Xi as the five powerful partial generals and asked him to assist the generals in resisting Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang.
Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi, Zhao Xi was wounded, and had meritorious service. After returning, he was worshiped as Zhonglang General and a Marquis for bravery.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
更始败，憙为赤眉兵所围，迫急，乃逾屋亡走，与所友善韩仲伯等数十人，携小弱，越山阻，径出武关。
仲伯以妇色美，虑有强暴者，而已受其害，欲弃之于道。
憙责怒不听，因以泥涂伯仲妇面，载以鹿车，身自推之。
每道逢贼，或欲逼略，憙辄言其病状，以此得免。
既入丹水，遇更始亲属，皆裸跣涂炭，饥困不能前。
憙见之悲感，所装缣制资粮，悉以与之，将护归乡里。
时，邓奉反于南阳，憙素与奉善，数遗书切责之，而谗者因方憙与奉合谋，帝以为疑。
及奉败，帝得憙书，乃惊曰： 赵憙真长者也。
即征憙，引见，赐鞍马，待诏公车。
时，江南未宾，道路不通，以憙守简阳侯相。
憙不肯受兵，单车驰之简阳。
吏民不欲内憙憙，憙乃告譬，呼城中大人，示以国家威信，其帅即开门面缚自归，由是诸营壁悉降。
荆州牧奏憙才任理剧，诏以为平林侯相。
translation: 
The reform failed, and Zhao Xi was besieged by the red-browed soldiers, so he climbed up the house and escaped. He and his friend Han Zhongbo and dozens of others, carrying children and the infirm, climbed the mountain to overcome obstacles and left Wuguan.
Han Zhongbo thought that his wife was beautiful, but he was worried that someone would rape her and he would be harmed, so he wanted to abandon his wife on the road.
Zhao Xi was angry and refused to listen, so he smeared mud on Han Zhongbo's wife's face, put her on a cart, and pushed the cart with his own body.
Whenever she met a thief or wanted to persecute her, Zhao Xi would tell her that she was seriously ill and thus be spared.
When they arrived in Danshui County, they met Gengshi's family members. They were all naked, covered in mud, hungry and trapped, and could no longer move forward.
When Zhao Xi saw this, he was filled with sorrow and gave them all the clothes, silk and supplies he had packed, and escorted them back to their hometown.
At this time, Deng Feng was working in Nanyang. Zhao Xi was always friendly with Deng Feng and wrote to him several times to accuse him. However, the rumor maker falsely accused Zhao Xi of conspiring with Deng Feng, which the emperor used as suspicion.
When Deng Feng failed, the emperor searched for the letter written by Zhao Xi to Deng Feng, and was shocked and said: Zhao Xi is really an elder.
That is to say, he summoned Zhao Xi, received him, gave him a saddle and horse, and waited for the imperial edict to be placed in the public carriage.
At that time, there were no guest services in the south of the Yangtze River and the roads were impassable, so the emperor temporarily appointed Zhao Xi as the Marquis of Jianyang.
Zhao Xi refused to lead his troops and drove to Jianyang on bicycles.
The officials and the people did not want him to enter the city, so Zhao Xi issued an edict and called on the adults in the city to show his country's prestige. The commander-in-chief immediately opened the door and surrendered, and all the camps surrendered.
Jingzhou Mu reported that Zhao Xi had outstanding talents and was good at governing, so he was ordered to be the Marquis of Pinglin.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
攻击群贼，安集已降者，县邑平定。
后拜怀令。
大姓李子春先为琅邪相，豪猾并兼，为人所患。
憙下车，闻其二孙杀人事未发觉，即穷诘其奸，收考子春，二孙自杀。
京师为请者数十，终不听。
时，赵王良疾病将终，车驾亲临王，问所欲言。
王曰： 素与李子春厚，今犯罪，怀令赵憙欲杀之，愿乞其命。
帝曰： 吏奉法，律不可枉也，更道它所欲。
王无复言。
既薨，帝追感赵王，乃贳出子春。
其年，迁憙平原太守。
时，平原多盗贼，憙与诸郡讨捕，斩其渠帅，余党当坐者数千人。
憙上言： 恶恶止其身，可一切徙京师近郡。
帝从之，乃悉移置颍川、陈留。
于是擢举义行，诛锄奸恶。
后青州大蝗，侵入平原界辄死，岁屡有年，百姓歌之。
translation: 
Attack the bandits, gather them and surrender them, and the counties and cities will be pacified.
Later he was worshiped as Huailing.
The surname Li Zichun first served as the Prime Minister of Langji. He was a powerful man who did not abide by the law, plundered and annexed, and caused trouble to others.
When Zhao Xi got out of the car, he heard that his two grandsons had killed someone without being discovered, so he pressed for questioning and arrested and tortured Li Zichun. The two grandsons committed suicide.
Dozens of people in the capital interceded for him, but they finally refused to listen.
At that time, King Zhao Liu Liang was dying of illness. The emperor came to visit him in person and asked him what he had to say.
Liu Liang said: "I have always been good friends with Li Zichun, but now I have committed a crime. I have ordered Zhao Xi to kill him, and I am willing to beg for his life."
The emperor said: Officials obey the law, and the law cannot be distorted. What else do you want?
Liu Liang said nothing again.
After Liu Liang's death, the emperor was moved by King Zhao and pardoned Li Zichun.
In this year, Zhao Xi was moved to the post of governor of Pingyuan.
At that time, there were many thieves in the plains. Zhao Xi and other counties attacked and captured them, and beheaded their commanders. Thousands of people were still involved in the party.
Zhao Xi wrote a letter saying: It is enough for the evildoers to be punished for their evil deeds. They can be moved to nearby counties in the capital.
The emperor obeyed and moved them to Yingchuan and Chenliu.
So he promoted and recommended people with righteous deeds and punished the evil ones.
Later, a major locust plague occurred in Qingzhou. As soon as it invaded Pingyuan County, it died immediately. Pingyuan had good harvests for many years, and the people sang its praises.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
二十六年，帝延集内戚宴会，欢甚，诸夫人各各前言 赵憙笃义多恩，往遭赤眉出长安，皆为憙所济活 。
帝甚嘉之。
后征憙入为太仆，引见谓曰： 卿非但为英雄所保也，妇人亦怀卿之恩。
厚加赏赐。
二十七年，拜太尉，赐爵关内侯。
时，南单于称臣，乌桓、鲜插并来入朝，帝令憙典边事，思为久长规。
憙上复缘边诸郡，幽、并二州由是而定。
三十年，憙上言宜封禅，正三雍之礼。
中元元年，从封泰山。
及帝崩，憙受遗诏，典丧礼。
是时，籓王皆在京师，自王莽篡乱，旧典不存，皇太子与东海王等杂止同席，宪章无序。
憙乃正色，横剑殿阶，扶下诸王，以明尊卑。
时，籓国官属出入宫省，与百僚无别，憙乃表奏谒者将护，分止它县，诸王并令就邸，唯朝晡入临。
整礼仪，严门卫，内外肃然。
永平元年，封节乡侯。
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year of Jianwu's reign, Emperor Yan gathered his relatives for a banquet, which was very joyful. Each of the ladies went forward and stated that Zhao Xi was loyal and merciful. In previous years, he escaped from Chang'an after suffering the disaster of Red Eyebrows. It was only because of Zhao Xi's help that he survived.
The emperor praised Zhao Xi very much.
Later, Zhao Xi was recruited as a royal servant. When he was received, he said to people: "Not only are you recommended by heroes, but even women also appreciate your kindness."
So he generously rewarded him.
In the twenty-seventh year, he was worshiped as Taiwei and given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
At that time, Shanyu of Nandan proclaimed himself a minister, and both Wuhuan and Xianbei came to the court to make peace. The emperor ordered Zhao Xi to take charge of frontier affairs and plan for the long term.
Zhao Xi ordered the immigrants who had migrated from Yunzhong and Wuyuan to Changshan and Juyong to return to Yunzhong and Wuyuan, and Youzhou and Bingzhou became stable.
Thirty years later, Zhao Xi said that it would be appropriate to confer Zen status and implement the etiquette of Sanyong.
In the first year of Zhongyuan, he followed Feng Chan Taishan.
Later, when the emperor died, Zhao Xi accepted the imperial edict and presided over the funeral.
At that time, all the vassal kings were in the capital. Since Wang Mang usurped the throne, the old rules and regulations no longer existed. The Crown Prince and the King of Donghai sat at the same table, and the charter was out of order.
Zhao Xi then looked upright, raised his sword across the palace steps, and helped the kings down to show their superiority and inferiority.
At that time, the officials of the vassal state came in and out of the palace and provinces, and they were no different from the other officials. Zhao Xi reported that he was escorted by his close servants and separated into other counties. The kings returned to their respective residences and only came in the morning and evening.
Clean the etiquette, strictly guard the door, and be solemn inside and outside.
In the first year of Yongping, he was granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
三年春，坐考中山相薛脩事不实免。
其冬，代窦融为卫尉。
八年，代虞延行太尉事，居府如真。
后遭母忧，上疏乞身行丧礼，显宗不许，遣使者为释服，赏赐恩宠甚渥。
憙内典宿卫，外干宰职，正身立朝，未尝懈惰。
及帝崩，复典丧事，再奉大行，礼事修举。
肃宗即位，进为太傅，录尚书事。
擢诸子为郎吏者七人。长子代，给事黄门。
子直嗣，官至步兵校尉。
直卒，子淑嗣，无子，国除。
牟融字子优，北海安丘人也。
少博学，以《大夏侯尚书》教授，门徒数百人，名称州里。
以司徒茂才为丰令，视事三年，县无狱讼，为州郡最。
司徒范迁荐融忠正公方，经行纯备，宜在本朝，并上其理状。
永平五年，入代鲍昱为司隶校尉，多所举正，百僚敬惮之。
八年，代包咸为大鸿胪。
十一年，代鲑阳鸿为大司农。
是时，显宗方勤万机，公卿数朝会，每辄延谋政事，判折狱讼。
translation: 
In the spring of three years, he was dismissed from office because he found out the truth about Zhongshan Prime Minister Xue.
In the winter of this year, Dai Dou Rong became a guard.
In the eighth year, he took over the affairs of the Taiwei on behalf of Yu Yan and lived in the mansion as if it were true.
Later, when his mother died, Shangshu requested to go home for the funeral, but Xianzong refused. He sent an envoy to take off his mourning clothes and rewarded him with great favors.
Zhao Xun presided over the imperial guards internally and held the position of prime minister externally.
When the emperor passed away, he presided over the funeral and performed the ceremony again, and the ceremony was complete.
Suzong ascended the throne, became Taifu, and took charge of the affairs of the Shangshu.
Among the seven people who promoted his sons to be officials, the eldest son Zhao Dai served in Huangmen.
In the fifth year of Jianchu's reign, Zhao Xi fell ill, and the emperor came to visit him in person.
After he died of illness, the emperor personally went to pay his respects. He was eighty-four years old, and his posthumous title was Zhenghou.
◆The biography of Mou Rong Mou Rong, courtesy name Ziyou, was from Anqiu, Beihai County.
He was very knowledgeable when he was young, and became a professor of Daxia Hou Shangshu. He had hundreds of disciples named Zhouli.
With Situ Maocai as the magistrate of Feng County, he served for three years. There were no jail cases in the county, which was the best among the prefectures and counties.
Situ Fanqian recommended Mou Rong to be loyal, upright, and pure in behavior, and he should be in this dynasty, and reported his governance situation.
In the fifth year of Yongping, Bao Yu was appointed as Sili Xiaowei. He took many measures to correct the situation and was respected by all officials.
In the eighth year, Bao Xian was appointed as Dahonglu.
In the eleventh year, Dai Shayanghong was appointed as the chief agricultural officer.
At this time, Xianzong was working hard, and the ministers had several court meetings a day, and every time they planned political affairs with Yan, they were sentenced to prison and lawsuits.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
融经明才高，善论议，朝廷皆服其能；帝数嗟叹，以为才堪宰相。
明年，代伏恭为司空，举动方重，甚得大臣节。
肃宗即位，以融先朝名臣，代赵憙为太尉，与憙参录尚书事。
建初四年薨，车驾亲临其丧。
时融长子麟归乡里，帝以其余子幼弱，敕太尉掾史教其威仪进止，赠赗恩宠笃密焉。
又赐冢茔地于显节陵下，除麟为郎。
韦彪字孟达，扶风平陵人也。
高祖贤，宣帝时为丞相。
祖赏，哀帝时为大司马。
彪孝行纯至，父母卒，哀毁三年，不出庐寝。
服竟，赢瘠骨立异形，医疗数年乃起。
好学洽闻，雅称儒宗。
建武末，举孝廉，除郎中，以病免，复归教授。
安贫乐道，恬于进趣，三辅诸儒莫不慕仰之。
显宗闻彪名，永平六年，召拜谒者，赐以车马衣服，三迁魏郡太守。
肃宗即位，以病免。
征为左中郎将、长乐卫尉，数陈政术，每归宽厚。
比上疏乞骸骨，拜为奉车都尉，秩中二千石，赏赐恩宠，俟于亲戚。
建初七年，车驾西巡府，以彪行太常从，数召入，问以三辅旧事，礼仪风俗。
彪因建言： 今西巡旧都，宜追录高祖、中宗功臣、褒显先勋，纪其子孙。
帝纳之。
行至长安，乃制诏京兆尹、右扶风求萧何、霍光后。
时光无苗裔，唯封何末孙熊为酂侯。
建初二年已封曹参后曹湛为平阳侯，故不复及焉。
乃厚赐彪钱珍羞食物，使归平陵上冢。
还，拜大鸿胪。
translation: 
Mou Rong was well versed in classics and had great talent, and he was good at discussion. The court admired his talent. The emperor sighed many times, thinking that Mou Rong had the talent of a prime minister.
In the second year, Dai Fugong became Sikong. His actions were upright and prudent, and he was highly respected as a minister.
When Suzong came to the throne, Mou Rong was a famous official in the previous dynasty. He replaced Zhao Xi as the Taiwei, and participated in the affairs of the general minister with Zhao Xi.
He died in the fourth year of his reign, and the emperor personally attended his funeral.
At that time, Mou Rong's eldest son Mou Lin returned to the countryside. The emperor thought that the other sons were young and weak, so he ordered the Taiwei to teach the emperor to teach him how to proceed with dignity and etiquette, and bestowed lavish favors on him.
He also gave a cemetery under the Xianjie Mausoleum and appointed Mou Lin as his minister.
◆Biography of Wei Biao Wei Biao, courtesy name Mengda, was from Pingling, Fufeng.
The great ancestor Wei Xian was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Zu Wei rewarded him, and he was the Grand Sima during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Wei Biao was a filial and upright person. When his parents died, he mourned for three years and guarded the tomb without leaving the house.
After taking the medicine, I became skinny and skinny, and my appearance also changed. It took several years for medical treatment to begin.
He was fond of learning and knowledgeable, and was elegantly called Confucian.
At the end of Jianwu's reign, he promoted filial piety and honesty, eliminated doctors, avoided retirement due to illness, and returned to teaching.
He lives in poverty and loves Taoism, but is indifferent to progress. All the Confucian scholars in the three auxiliaries admire him.
Xianzong heard about Wei Biao's reputation. In the sixth year of Yongping, he called him to pay homage to him, gave him carriages, horses and clothes, and moved him to be the prefect of Wei County.
Suzong ascended the throne and was relieved of his duties as prefect due to illness.
He was appointed as Zuo Zhonglang General and Changle Weiwei. He studied political skills and returned to the government every time.
He went to Shu several times to ask for his resignation, and he was appointed Captain of Fengche, with a rank of two thousand stones, and was rewarded with favors equal to those of his relatives.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor went on a hunting tour to the west. Wei Biao replaced Taichang Cong. He was summoned several times to ask about the old affairs, etiquette and customs of the three assistants.
Wei Biao therefore suggested: When inspecting the old capital in the west today, the heroes of Gaozu and Zhongzong should be traced, the heroes of Rongxian the first emperor should be praised, and their descendants should be recorded.
The emperor accepts.
When he arrived in Chang'an, he ordered Jing Zhaoyin and You Fufeng to seek the descendants of Xiao He and Huo Guang.
At that time, Huo Guang had no descendants, so he only named Xiao Xiong, a descendant of Xiao He, the Marquis of Zan.
In the second year of Jianchu, Cao Zhan, a descendant of Cao Shen, was granted the title of Marquis of Pingyang, so he no longer granted the title of descendant of Cao Shen.
So he gave Wei Biao money and delicacies and asked him to go back to Pingling to sweep the tomb and go to the tomb.
After returning, he worshiped him as Da Honglu.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
是时，陈事者多言郡国贡举率非功次，故守职益懈而吏事浸疏，咎在州郡。
有诏下公卿朝臣议。
彪上议曰： 伏惟明诏，忧劳百姓，垂恩选举，务得其人。
夫国以简贤为务，贤以孝行为首。
孔子曰： 事亲孝故忠可移于君，是以求忠臣必于孝子之门。
夫人才行少能相兼，是以孟公绰优于赵、魏老，不可以为滕、薛大夫。
忠孝之人，持心近厚；锻炼之吏，持心近薄。
三代之所以直道而行者，在其所以磨之故也。
士宜以才行为先，不可纯以阀阅。
然其要归，在于选二千石。二千石贤，则贡举皆得其人矣。
帝深纳之。
彪以世承二帝吏化之后，多以苛刻为能，又置官选职，不必以才，因盛夏多寒，上疏谏曰： 臣闻政化之本，必顺阴阳。
伏见立夏以来，当暑而寒，殆以刑罚刻急，郡国不奉时令之所致也。
translation: 
At this time, many people who wrote letters said that most of the tributes from counties and counties were not in the order of merit, so that the duties were increasingly slack and the officials were neglected. The fault lies with the states and counties.
The emperor issued an edict and ordered the ministers to discuss the matter.
Wei Biao submitted a proposal and said: Your Majesty has issued an edict to care about the people, and you will be gracious to elect them to ensure that they are selected.
The country's top priority is to select talented people, and talented people should first act with filial piety.
Confucius said: If you are filial to relatives, your loyalty can be transferred to the king, so loyal ministers must be in the door of filial sons.
People rarely have both talent and behavior. Therefore, Meng Gongchuo is better than Zhao and Wei Lao, so he cannot be the doctor of Teng and Xue. Because Teng and Xue have small and complicated political affairs, they cannot bear it.
A person who is loyal and filial has a heart that is close to being generous; a person who has been trained and mature has a heart that is close to being mean.
The reason why the three generations have been able to follow a straight path is that the wise men in ancient times have been tempered and selected.
Scholars should put their talents first and their conduct first, and should not judge based solely on their merits.
However, the key is to choose two thousand stones and two thousand stone wise people, then all the tributes will be won.
The emperor thought deeply but accepted it.
Wei Biao believed that at that time, after the second generation of emperors Guangwu and Ming, the officialdom was based on harshness, and officials were selected for positions without talent as a condition. Because it was cold in midsummer, he went to Shu to remonstrate: "I heard that the fundamentals of politicalization are to follow the yin and yang."
Since the beginning of summer, it has been hot and cold. This is caused by the urgent punishment and the lack of seasonality in the counties below.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
农人急于务而苛吏夺其时，赋发充常调而贪吏割其财，此其巨患也。
夫欲急人所务，当先除其所患。
天下枢要，在于尚书，尚书之选，岂可不重？
而间者多从郎官超升此位，虽晓习文法，长于应对，然察察小慧，类无大能。
宜简尝历州宰素有名者，虽进退舒迟，时有不逮，然端心向公，奉职周密。
宜鉴啬夫捷急之对，沉思绛侯木讷之功也。
往时楚狱大起，故置令史以助郎职，而类多小人，好为奸利。
今者务简，可皆停省。
又谏议之职，应用公直之士，通财謇正，有补益于朝者。
今或从征试辈为大夫。又御史外迁，动据州郡。
并宜清选其任，责以言绩。
其二千石视事虽久，而为吏民所便安者，宜增秩重赏，勿妄迁徙。
惟留圣心。
书奏，帝纳之。
元和二年春，东巡狩，以彪行司徒事从行。
translation: 
Farmers are eager to farm, but harsh officials take away their farming time. When they have already paid taxes as a standard, but corrupt officials take away their wealth, this is a huge disaster.
If you want to worry about people's problems, you must first eliminate their problems.
The key to the world lies in Shangshu. How can we not be careful when choosing a minister?
In the past, most people were promoted from Langguan to Shangshu. Although they knew grammar and were good at dealing with things, they were only of ordinary intelligence and did not have the talent to govern the country and bring peace to the people.
Officials with good reputations who have served as state governors should be promoted. Although the advance and retreat are slow and sometimes too late, they are loyal to the public and perform their duties carefully and reliably.
We should learn from the lesson that Emperor Wen wanted to worship him as Lin Ling because he was stingy and good at dealing with his husband, and Zhou Bo's great contribution to calming down the Liu family despite being dull and poor in writing.
In the past, the prison of Chu was in great power, so the Lingshi was set up to assist the minister. However, there were many scoundrels among these people, who were interested in making profit.
It is important to streamline now and stop them.
In addition, the position of admonishment should be applied to impartial people, people who can see problems, correct current affairs, and be helpful to the government affairs of the court.
In addition, the imperial censors moved abroad and took possession of prefectures and counties at every turn.
We should sort out their responsibilities and hold them accountable based on their performance.
Some people with two thousand stones who have been in charge of matters for a long time and can create convenience and safety for officials and the people should be rewarded with increased rank and salary, and should not move around casually.
Your Majesty, please pay attention.
The book was submitted and the emperor accepted it.
In the spring of the second year of Yuanhe, the emperor went on a hunting tour in the East and appointed Wei Biao to act as Situ.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
还，以病乞身，帝遣小黄门、太医问病，赐以食物。
彪遂称困笃。
章和二年夏，使谒者策诏曰： 彪以将相之裔，勤身饬行，出自州里，在位历载。
中被笃疾，连上求退。
君年在耆艾，不可复以加增，恐职事烦碎，重有损焉。
其上大鸿胪印绶。
其遣太子舍人诣中臧府，受赐钱二十万。
永元元年，卒，诏尚书： 故大鸿胪韦彪，在位无愆，方欲录用，奄忽而卒。
其赐钱二十万，布百匹，谷三千斛。
彪清俭好施，禄赐分与宗族，家无余财，著书十二篇，号曰《韦卿子》。
translation: 
After returning, Wei Biao asked to retire due to illness. The emperor sent Xiaohuangmen and imperial doctors to inquire about his illness and give him food.
Wei Biao said he was very tired.
In the summer of the second year of Zhanghe, he sent an imperial edict to his close servants, saying: Wei Biao is a descendant of a general and prime minister. He is diligent and cautious. He comes from the state and has been in power for a long time.
Because he was seriously ill, he even wrote a letter asking to withdraw.
You are old and cannot take on more heavy responsibilities, lest your duties be cumbersome and add to the wear and tear.
On it is the Dahonglu seal ribbon.
He sent the prince and his family to Zhongzang Mansion and was given two hundred thousand yuan.
In the first year of Yongyuan's reign, he died, and the imperial edict read: Therefore, Da Hong and Wei Biao, who were in office without any fault, died suddenly just before he was about to be appointed.
He was given a special gift of two hundred thousand dollars, one hundred bolts of cloth, and three thousand hu of grain.
Wei Biao was a frugal man who liked giving alms, and the salary he earned was distributed to the clan, leaving the family with no money left. He wrote twelve chapters, titled "Wei Qingzi".


