Summary uses chunk [17, 0, 5, 6, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16]

Chunk 17: 
original: 
是时，陈事者多言郡国贡举率非功次，故守职益懈而吏事浸疏，咎在州郡。
有诏下公卿朝臣议。
彪上议曰： 伏惟明诏，忧劳百姓，垂恩选举，务得其人。
夫国以简贤为务，贤以孝行为首。
孔子曰： 事亲孝故忠可移于君，是以求忠臣必于孝子之门。
夫人才行少能相兼，是以孟公绰优于赵、魏老，不可以为滕、薛大夫。
忠孝之人，持心近厚；锻炼之吏，持心近薄。
三代之所以直道而行者，在其所以磨之故也。
士宜以才行为先，不可纯以阀阅。
然其要归，在于选二千石。二千石贤，则贡举皆得其人矣。
帝深纳之。
彪以世承二帝吏化之后，多以苛刻为能，又置官选职，不必以才，因盛夏多寒，上疏谏曰： 臣闻政化之本，必顺阴阳。
伏见立夏以来，当暑而寒，殆以刑罚刻急，郡国不奉时令之所致也。
translation: 
At this time, many people who wrote letters said that most of the tributes from counties and counties were not in the order of merit, so that the duties were increasingly slack and the officials were neglected. The fault lies with the states and counties.
The emperor issued an edict and ordered the ministers to discuss the matter.
Wei Biao submitted a proposal and said: Your Majesty has issued an edict to care about the people, and you will be gracious to elect them to ensure that they are selected.
The country's top priority is to select talented people, and talented people should first act with filial piety.
Confucius said: If you are filial to relatives, your loyalty can be transferred to the king, so loyal ministers must be in the door of filial sons.
People rarely have both talent and behavior. Therefore, Meng Gongchuo is better than Zhao and Wei Lao, so he cannot be the doctor of Teng and Xue. Because Teng and Xue have small and complicated political affairs, they cannot bear it.
A person who is loyal and filial has a heart that is close to being generous; a person who has been trained and mature has a heart that is close to being mean.
The reason why the three generations have been able to follow a straight path is that the wise men in ancient times have been tempered and selected.
Scholars should put their talents first and their conduct first, and should not judge based solely on their merits.
However, the key is to choose two thousand stones and two thousand stone wise people, then all the tributes will be won.
The emperor thought deeply but accepted it.
Wei Biao believed that at that time, after the second generation of emperors Guangwu and Ming, the officialdom was based on harshness, and officials were selected for positions without talent as a condition. Because it was cold in midsummer, he went to Shu to remonstrate: "I heard that the fundamentals of politicalization are to follow the yin and yang."
Since the beginning of summer, it has been hot and cold. This is caused by the urgent punishment and the lack of seasonality in the counties below.

summary:
summary line 0: Based solely on the provided text, here is a summary of the biographies of several historical figures.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
伏湛字惠公，琅邪东武人也。
九世祖胜，字子贱，所谓济南伏生者也。
湛高祖父孺，武帝时，客授东武，因家焉。
父理，为当世名儒，以《诗》授成帝，为高密太傅，别自名学。
湛性孝友，少传父业，教授数百人。
成帝时，以父任为博士弟子。
五迁，至王莽时为绣衣执法，使督大奸，迁后队属正。
更始立，以为平原太守。
时仓卒兵起，天下惊扰，而湛独晏然，教授不废。
谓妻子曰： 夫一谷不登，国君彻膳；今民皆饥，奈何独饱？
乃共食粗粝，悉分奉禄以赈乡里，来客者百余家。
时门下督素有气力，谋欲为湛起兵，湛恶其惑众，即收斩之，徇首城郭，以示百姓，于是吏人信向，郡向以安。
平原一境，湛所全也。
光武即位，知湛名儒旧臣，欲信干任内职，征拜尚书，使典定旧制。
时，大司徒邓禹西征关中，帝以湛才任宰相，拜为司直，行大司徒事。
translation: 
◆It is said in Fu Zhan's biography that Fu Zhan was named Hui Gong and was a native of Dongwu, King of Lang.
The ninth generation ancestor Fu Sheng, whose courtesy name was Zi Jian, was the so-called Jinan Fu Sheng.
Fu Zhan's great-great-grandfather Fu Ru was a visiting professor at Dongwu during the reign of Emperor Wu, so he made Dongwu his home.
His father, Fuli, was a famous Confucian in the world. He became an emperor by teaching "Poems" and was a tutor in Gaomi. He became a famous scholar in his own family.
Fu Zhan respected his parents and loved his brothers. He taught his father's business from an early age and taught hundreds of people.
When he became emperor, he accepted his father as his doctorate disciple.
He was transferred to the official position five times. When he arrived at Wang Mang, he was enforcing the law in Xiu Yi, which made the inspector a traitor.
Gengshi was established, and Fu Zhan was appointed as the prefect of Pingyuan.
At that time, there was a hasty war, and the world was in panic, but Fu Zhan was very quiet and continued to teach.
He said to his wife and children: If the harvest is not harvested in the new year, the king should withdraw from the banquet. Now the people are starving, how can they be fed alone?
So they ate coarse grains together and used the income from their salaries to provide relief to the village. There were more than a hundred visitors.
At that time, the governor was very powerful and planned to raise troops for Fu Zhan. Fu Zhan hated him for confusing people, so he was about to behead him and hang his head on the city wall to show the people. As a result, the officials and the people were convinced and admired him, and the county was stable.
A county in Pingyuan was preserved by Fu Zhan.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he knew that Fu Zhan was a well-known Confucian old official, so he wanted to make him take charge of the internal affairs, worship the minister, and let him review the old laws and regulations.
At that time, Deng Yu, the Great Situ, was on an expedition to the west of Guanzhong. The emperor appointed Fu Zhancai as Prime Minister and worshiped him as Sizhi, performing the duties of the Great Situ.

summary:
summary line 1: Fu Zhan, also known as Hui Gong, was a native of Dongwu. He was a descendant of the scholar Fu Sheng. Fu Zhan was a filial and learned man who taught his father's teachings to hundreds of students. During the chaos of the Gengshi era, he served as the Prefect of Pingyuan, where he remained calm, ate coarse grains, and used his salary to relieve the starving people. He beheaded a powerful governor who planned to raise troops, which stabilized the county. When Guangwu came to the throne, Fu Zhan was appointed to high office, eventually becoming the Grand Situ and Marquis of Yangdu. He advised the emperor against personally conquering the rebel Peng Chong, arguing that the emperor should first secure the central territories. The emperor heeded his advice. A thief named Xu Yiqing, who could not be defeated by officers, surrendered specifically to Fu Zhan. Fu Zhan was later dismissed from his post for a minor fault. He was later recommended for reinstatement but died of heatstroke before he could take office.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
建武四年，光武征霸与车驾会寿春，拜尚书令。
时无故典，朝廷又少旧臣，霸明习故事，收录遗文，条奏前世善政法度有益于时者，皆施行之。
每春下宽大之诏，奉四时之令，皆霸所建也。
明年，代伏湛为大司徒，封关内侯。
在位明察守正，奉公不回。
十三年，霸薨，帝深伤惜之，亲自临吊。
下诏曰： 惟霸积善清洁。视事九年。汉家旧制，丞相拜曰，封为列侯。
朕以军师暴露，功臣未封，缘忠臣之义，不欲相逾，未及爵命，奄然而终。
呜呼哀哉！
昱卒，子建嗣。
建卒，子昌嗣。
宋弘字仲子，京兆长安人也。
父尚，成帝时至少府。哀帝立，以不附董贤，违忤抵罪。
弘少而温顺，哀、平间作侍中，王莽时为共工。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu summoned Hou Ba to meet him in Shouchun and worshiped him as Shangshu Ling.
There were no historical classics at that time, and there were few old ministers in the court. Hou Baming studied the affairs of the previous court, collected the posthumous documents, and wrote down the good governance laws of the previous life that were beneficial to the time, and they were all implemented.
The lenient edicts issued every spring and the political orders of the four seasons were all established by Hou Ba.
In the second year, he was appointed Grand Situ on behalf of Fu Zhan and was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
When in office, he is clear-minded, upright, and selfless.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Hou Ba passed away. Emperor Guangwu was deeply saddened and paid his respects in person.
The edict said: Hou Ba has accumulated good deeds and has been in charge of the court for nine years. According to the old system of the Han Dynasty, on the day when he was granted the title of Prime Minister, he was also granted the title of Lieutenant Commander.
I have been exposed to the outside world all year round due to my military service, and my meritorious service has not yet been rewarded. I do not want to exceed the obligation of loyalty, but before I could be awarded a title, Hou Ba passed away.
Alas!
So he named Hou Ba the posthumous title of Aihou of Zixiang, with a settlement of 2,600 households. Zihou Yu succeeded to the throne.
Linhuai officials and people jointly built a temple for him and offered sacrifices at all times.
◆Song Hong's biography: Song Hong's courtesy name was Zhongzi, and he was a native of Chang'an, Jingzhao.
His father, Shang Shang, had the lowest official rank when he became emperor. When Emperor Ai was established, he disobeyed Dong Xian and was punished because he did not attach himself to Dong Xian.
Song Hong was young and docile. He served as an attendant during the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, and served as Gonggong during the reign of Wang Mang.

summary:
summary line 2: Hou Ba, courtesy name Junfang, was from Mi County. He was a serious and dedicated student of the "Guliang Spring and Autumn Annals." As a county magistrate, he killed powerful criminals and arrested bandits, bringing peace to the region. As the Grand Administrator of Huaipei, he was known for his capable governance. When Wang Mang failed, he defended the county. The people begged for him to stay when he was summoned by Gengshi. Under Guangwu, he became a minister and established many good governance laws. He succeeded Fu Zhan as Grand Situ. He was known for being clear-minded and selfless. After his death, the emperor posthumously named him Marquis Ai of Zixiang, and the people of Linhuai built a temple for him.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
赤眉入长安，遣使征弘，逼迫不得已，行至渭桥，自投于水，家人救得出，因佯死获免。
光武即位，征拜太中大夫。
建武二年，代王梁为大司空，封栒邑侯。
所得租奉分赡九族，家无资产，以清行致称。
徙封宣平侯。
帝尝问弘通博之士，弘乃荐沛国醒谭才学洽闻，几能及杨雄、刘向父子。
于是召谭拜议郎、给事中。
帝每宴，辄令鼓琴，好其繁声。
弘闻之不悦，悔于荐举，伺谭内出，正朝服坐府上，遣吏召之。
谭至，不与席而让之曰： 吾所以荐子者，欲令辅国家以道德也，而今数进郑声以乱《雅》、《颂》，非忠正者也。
能自改邪？
将令相举以法乎？
谭顿首辞谢，良久乃遣之。
后大会群臣，帝使谭鼓琴，谭见弘，失其常度。
帝怪而问之。
弘乃离席免冠谢曰： 臣所以荐醒谭者，望能以忠正导主，而令朝廷耽悦郑声，臣之罪也。
帝改容谢，使反服，其后遂不复令谭给事中。
弘推进贤士冯翊桓梁三十余人，或相及为公卿者。
translation: 
Chimei entered Chang'an and sent envoys to recruit Song Hong. He had no choice but to commit suicide. When he reached Weiqiao, he threw himself into the water. His family rescued him and he was spared by pretending to be dead.
Guangwu ascended the throne and was worshiped as Taizhong doctor.
In the second year of Jianwu, Wang Liang was granted the title of Grand Sikong and was granted the title of Marquis of Yi.
The rent earned is divided among the nine clans. The family has no assets and is known for its honesty.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanping.
The emperor once asked Song Hong who was the most knowledgeable scholar, so Song Hong recommended Huan Tan of Pei State, who was rich in knowledge and knowledge, almost comparable to Yang Xiong and Liu Xiang and his son.
So he called Huan Tan to worship him as Yilang and gave him the title of Shizhong.
The emperor ordered him to play drums and harps every time he held a banquet, and he loved the sound of the music.
Song Hong was unhappy when he heard that he regretted recommending him. When Huan Tan came out, Song Hong sat in his house wearing neat court clothes and sent someone to summon Huan Tan.
When Huan Tan arrived, he criticized him before he could sit down and said: "The reason why I recommend you is that you can help the country with morality. Now you have interfered with Zheng Sheng several times to mess with "Ya" and "Song". This is not a sign of loyalty."
Can you correct it yourself?
Or should we use Dharma to uplift others?
Huan Tan thanked him and waited for a long time before letting him go.
After the meeting with the ministers, the emperor asked Huan Tan to play the harp. When Huan Tan saw Song Hong, he lost his normal state.
The emperor asked strangely.
Song Hong then left the table, took off his hat and thanked him, saying: "The reason why I recommend Huan Tan is that I hope he can lead your majesty with loyalty and integrity. But now the court is obsessed with Zheng Sheng. This is my fault."
The emperor changed his appearance and thanked him, so that he refused to accept it. After that, he no longer ordered Huan Tan to do anything for him.
There were more than 30 sages Feng Yi and Huan Liang in Hongjin of Song Dynasty, some of whom succeeded them as public ministers.

summary:
summary line 3: Song Hong, courtesy name Zhongzi, was from Chang'an. He served under several emperors and Wang Mang. When Chimei entered Chang'an, he attempted suicide by drowning to avoid serving them but was rescued. Under Guangwu, he became Grand Sikong and was known for his honesty, distributing his rent among his clan. He once recommended Huan Tan to the emperor, but later criticized Huan Tan for playing secular music at court banquets, which Song Hong felt was inappropriate. When the emperor tried to arrange a marriage between Song Hong and his widowed sister, Princess Huyang, Song Hong refused, stating that a friend from humble times should not be forgotten, and a wife from poverty should not be cast aside. He was later dismissed from his post.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
蔡茂字子礼，河内怀人也。
哀、平间以儒学显，征试博士，对策陈灾异，以高等擢拜议郎，迁侍中。
遇王莽居摄，以病自免，不仕莽朝。
会天下扰乱，茂素与窦融善，因避难归之。融欲以为张掖太守，固辞不就；每所饷给，计口取足而已。
后与融俱征，复拜议郎，再迁广汉太守，有政绩称。
时阴氏宾客在郡界多犯吏禁，茂辄纠案，无所回避。
会洛阳令董宣举纠湖阳公主，帝始怒收宣，既而赦之。
茂喜宣刚正，欲令朝廷禁制贵戚，乃上书曰： 臣闻兴化致教，必由进善；康国宁人，莫大理恶。
陛下圣德系兴，再隆大命，即位以来，四海晏然。
诚宜夙兴夜寐，虽休勿休。
然顷者贵戚椒房之家，数因恩势，干犯吏禁，杀人不死，伤人不论。
臣恐绳墨弃而不用，斧斤废而不举。
近湖阳公主奴杀人西市，而与主共舆，出入宫省，逋罪积日，冤魂不报。
洛阳令董宣，直道不顾，干主讨奸。
陛下不先澄审，召欲加。
当宣受怒之初，京师侧耳；及其蒙宥，天下试目。
今者，外戚憍逸，宾客放滥，宜敕有司案理奸罪，使执平之吏永申其用，以厌远近不缉之情。
translation: 
◆Cai Mao Chuan Cai Mao, courtesy name Zili, was born in Hanoi.
During the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, he was well-known for his Confucianism. He was recruited and tested to be a doctor, and he explained the countermeasures to disasters. With outstanding performance, he was promoted to Yilang and moved to the imperial court.
When Wang Mang stayed and took photos, Cai Mao voluntarily dismissed him because he was ill and refused to serve as an official under Wang Mang.
When the world was in turmoil, Cai Mao had always been friendly with Dou Rong, so he took refuge with Dou Rong. Dou Rong wanted to make him the prefect of Zhangye, but Cai Mao refused to take office. He only took enough rations every time he was paid.
Later, he and Dou Rong were both recruited, and then paid homage to Yilang, and then moved to Guanghan as governor, with good political achievements.
At that time, guests of the Yin family often violated official bans in the county. Cai Mao did not avoid any dispute cases.
It happened that Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to correct Princess Huyang. The emperor became angry and arrested Dong Xuan, but later pardoned her.
Cai Mao liked Dong Xuan's uprightness and wanted the court to prohibit and restrict the illegal behavior of his relatives, so he wrote a letter saying: "When I hear that people are enlightened and want to teach, they must start with doing good; for people in Kang Guoning, the most important thing is to deal with evil people."
His Majesty's virtue has flourished, and he has once again inherited his great mission. Since he came to the throne, he has been prosperous all over the world.
You should get up early and go to bed late, and don't rest when you should.
However, recently, the family of nobles, concubines, and concubines have relied on their favors many times to violate official regulations, killing people without the death penalty, and injuring others without punishment.
I am afraid that laws and regulations will be abandoned and punishments will not be used.
Recently, the slave of the Princess of Huyang killed someone in the Western Market, and he rode in a carriage with the princess, going in and out of the palace, and escaped for many days without being punished.
Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to handle the case according to the right way, regardless of the powerful, and to attack the murderer of the princess.
Your Majesty did not investigate first, but wanted to flog him more.
When Dong Xuan was angry with His Majesty, the capital paid close attention to him; when Your Majesty pardoned him, everyone in the world watched.
Nowadays, the foreign relatives are arrogant and have too many guests. We should order someone to handle the crime of adultery so that the just officials can always gain credibility and restrain illegal activities near and far.

summary:
summary line 4: Cai Mao, courtesy name Zili, was from Hanoi. He was a renowned Confucian who refused to serve under Wang Mang. He took refuge with Dou Rong. Under Guangwu, he became the Grand Administrator of Guanghan. He wrote a memorial criticizing the illegal behavior of imperial relatives and praising the uprightness of Luoyang's magistrate, Dong Xuan. He later became Situ and was known for his honesty and frugality. He died in office.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
光武纳之。
建武二十年，代戴涉为司徒，在职清俭匪懈。
在官三年卒，诏书慜惜，赐车一乘，钱四十万。
冯勤字伟伯，魏郡繁阳人也。
曾祖父扬，宣帝时为弘农太守。
有八子，皆为二千石，赵魏间荣之，号曰 万石君 焉。
兄弟形皆伟壮，唯勤祖父偃，长不满七尺，常自耻短陋，恐子孙之似也，乃为子伉娶长妻。
伉生勤，长八尺三寸。
八岁善计。
初为太守铫期功曹，有高能称。
期常从光武征伐，政事一以委勤。
勤同县冯巡等举兵应光武，谋未成而为豪右焦廉等所反，勤乃率将老母、兄弟及宗亲归期，期悉以为腹心，荐于光武。
初未被用，后乃除为郎中，给事尚书。
以图议军粮，在事精勤，遂见亲识。
每引进，帝辄顾谓左右曰： 佳乎吏也！
由是使典诸侯封事。
勤差量功次轻重，国土远近，地势丰薄，不相逾越，莫不厌服焉。
自是封爵之制，非勤不定。
translation: 
Guangwu accepted it.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, he replaced Dai She as Situ. He was honest, frugal and uncompromising in his duties.
He died in his post in the twenty-third year at the age of seventy-two. He was given a coffin in Dongyuan, and the funeral money was generous.
◆Feng Qin's biography: Feng Qin was named Wei Bo and was a native of Fanyang, Wei County.
Great-grandfather Feng Yang was the prefect of Hongnong during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
He had eight sons, each with two thousand stones. Zhao and Wei were very proud of him and called him Lord Wanshi.
All the brothers were strong, but Feng Qin's grandfather, Feng Yan, was less than seven feet tall. He was often ashamed of his short stature, fearing that his descendants would also be short, so he married his son Feng and his wife to a tall wife.
Feng Qin, the son of Feng and his wife, was eight feet three inches tall.
You can do arithmetic at the age of eight.
At first, he was the governor of Yaoqi, a meritorious officer, and had the title of capable person.
Yaoqi often went on expeditions from Guangwu, and entrusted all political affairs to Feng Qin.
Feng Qin and the county people Feng Xun and others raised troops to respond to Guangwu, but the plan failed and was opposed by the powerful right Jiao Lian and others. Feng Qin then led his mother, brothers and clan relatives to join Yaoqi. Yaoqi regarded them as confidants and recommended them to Guangwu.
He was not appointed at first, but later he was appointed as a doctor and served as a minister.
He was able to negotiate military supplies and was shrewd and diligent in doing things, so he was valued by Guangwu's cronies.
Every time he was introduced, the emperor always said to his left and right: "What a good official!"
As a result, Feng Qin was asked to examine the Jin feudal issues of the princes.
Feng Qin weighed the importance of merit, the distance of the country, the richness of the terrain, and made the reward consistent with the merit without exceeding it, which convinced everyone.
From then on, the system of nobility had to be reviewed and approved by Feng Qin.

summary:
summary line 5: Feng Qin, courtesy name Wei Bo, was from Fanyang. He was tall and capable with arithmetic. He served as a meritorious officer under Yaoqi and was recommended to Guangwu. He was valued for his skill in negotiating military supplies and was put in charge of examining the fiefs of the princes, a system he established. He later became Situ. The emperor warned him to be a loyal minister, using the example of Zhu Fu. Feng Qin served with respect and conscientiousness. His mother was honored by the emperor. He died in office.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
二十六年，帝延集内戚宴会，欢甚，诸夫人各各前言 赵憙笃义多恩，往遭赤眉出长安，皆为憙所济活 。
帝甚嘉之。
后征憙入为太仆，引见谓曰： 卿非但为英雄所保也，妇人亦怀卿之恩。
厚加赏赐。
二十七年，拜太尉，赐爵关内侯。
时，南单于称臣，乌桓、鲜插并来入朝，帝令憙典边事，思为久长规。
憙上复缘边诸郡，幽、并二州由是而定。
三十年，憙上言宜封禅，正三雍之礼。
中元元年，从封泰山。
及帝崩，憙受遗诏，典丧礼。
是时，籓王皆在京师，自王莽篡乱，旧典不存，皇太子与东海王等杂止同席，宪章无序。
憙乃正色，横剑殿阶，扶下诸王，以明尊卑。
时，籓国官属出入宫省，与百僚无别，憙乃表奏谒者将护，分止它县，诸王并令就邸，唯朝晡入临。
整礼仪，严门卫，内外肃然。
永平元年，封节乡侯。
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year of Jianwu's reign, Emperor Yan gathered his relatives for a banquet, which was very joyful. Each of the ladies went forward and stated that Zhao Xi was loyal and merciful. In previous years, he escaped from Chang'an after suffering the disaster of Red Eyebrows. It was only because of Zhao Xi's help that he survived.
The emperor praised Zhao Xi very much.
Later, Zhao Xi was recruited as a royal servant. When he was received, he said to people: "Not only are you recommended by heroes, but even women also appreciate your kindness."
So he generously rewarded him.
In the twenty-seventh year, he was worshiped as Taiwei and given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
At that time, Shanyu of Nandan proclaimed himself a minister, and both Wuhuan and Xianbei came to the court to make peace. The emperor ordered Zhao Xi to take charge of frontier affairs and plan for the long term.
Zhao Xi ordered the immigrants who had migrated from Yunzhong and Wuyuan to Changshan and Juyong to return to Yunzhong and Wuyuan, and Youzhou and Bingzhou became stable.
Thirty years later, Zhao Xi said that it would be appropriate to confer Zen status and implement the etiquette of Sanyong.
In the first year of Zhongyuan, he followed Feng Chan Taishan.
Later, when the emperor died, Zhao Xi accepted the imperial edict and presided over the funeral.
At that time, all the vassal kings were in the capital. Since Wang Mang usurped the throne, the old rules and regulations no longer existed. The Crown Prince and the King of Donghai sat at the same table, and the charter was out of order.
Zhao Xi then looked upright, raised his sword across the palace steps, and helped the kings down to show their superiority and inferiority.
At that time, the officials of the vassal state came in and out of the palace and provinces, and they were no different from the other officials. Zhao Xi reported that he was escorted by his close servants and separated into other counties. The kings returned to their respective residences and only came in the morning and evening.
Clean the etiquette, strictly guard the door, and be solemn inside and outside.
In the first year of Yongping, he was granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.

summary:
summary line 6: Zhao Xi, courtesy name Boyang, was from Wan. As a youth, he sought revenge for his cousin but delayed the act until his enemies recovered from illness. He was recruited by Gengshi to persuade the Li family of Wucheng to surrender. He fought at Kunyang and was wounded. After Gengshi's failure, he helped friends and Gengshi's family escape, protecting them from bandits. He was falsely accused of conspiracy but was cleared by the emperor. He served as a county magistrate and governor, suppressing bandits and punishing the powerful. He was known for his mercy, moving surrendered bandits to other counties. He became Taiwei and managed frontier affairs, ordering immigrants to return to their original lands. He presided over the funeral of Emperor Guangwu and established proper court etiquette for the princes. He died at age eighty-four.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
三年春，坐考中山相薛脩事不实免。
其冬，代窦融为卫尉。
八年，代虞延行太尉事，居府如真。
后遭母忧，上疏乞身行丧礼，显宗不许，遣使者为释服，赏赐恩宠甚渥。
憙内典宿卫，外干宰职，正身立朝，未尝懈惰。
及帝崩，复典丧事，再奉大行，礼事修举。
肃宗即位，进为太傅，录尚书事。
擢诸子为郎吏者七人。长子代，给事黄门。
子直嗣，官至步兵校尉。
直卒，子淑嗣，无子，国除。
牟融字子优，北海安丘人也。
少博学，以《大夏侯尚书》教授，门徒数百人，名称州里。
以司徒茂才为丰令，视事三年，县无狱讼，为州郡最。
司徒范迁荐融忠正公方，经行纯备，宜在本朝，并上其理状。
永平五年，入代鲍昱为司隶校尉，多所举正，百僚敬惮之。
八年，代包咸为大鸿胪。
十一年，代鲑阳鸿为大司农。
是时，显宗方勤万机，公卿数朝会，每辄延谋政事，判折狱讼。
translation: 
In the spring of three years, he was dismissed from office because he found out the truth about Zhongshan Prime Minister Xue.
In the winter of this year, Dai Dou Rong became a guard.
In the eighth year, he took over the affairs of the Taiwei on behalf of Yu Yan and lived in the mansion as if it were true.
Later, when his mother died, Shangshu requested to go home for the funeral, but Xianzong refused. He sent an envoy to take off his mourning clothes and rewarded him with great favors.
Zhao Xun presided over the imperial guards internally and held the position of prime minister externally.
When the emperor passed away, he presided over the funeral and performed the ceremony again, and the ceremony was complete.
Suzong ascended the throne, became Taifu, and took charge of the affairs of the Shangshu.
Among the seven people who promoted his sons to be officials, the eldest son Zhao Dai served in Huangmen.
In the fifth year of Jianchu's reign, Zhao Xi fell ill, and the emperor came to visit him in person.
After he died of illness, the emperor personally went to pay his respects. He was eighty-four years old, and his posthumous title was Zhenghou.
◆The biography of Mou Rong Mou Rong, courtesy name Ziyou, was from Anqiu, Beihai County.
He was very knowledgeable when he was young, and became a professor of Daxia Hou Shangshu. He had hundreds of disciples named Zhouli.
With Situ Maocai as the magistrate of Feng County, he served for three years. There were no jail cases in the county, which was the best among the prefectures and counties.
Situ Fanqian recommended Mou Rong to be loyal, upright, and pure in behavior, and he should be in this dynasty, and reported his governance situation.
In the fifth year of Yongping, Bao Yu was appointed as Sili Xiaowei. He took many measures to correct the situation and was respected by all officials.
In the eighth year, Bao Xian was appointed as Dahonglu.
In the eleventh year, Dai Shayanghong was appointed as the chief agricultural officer.
At this time, Xianzong was working hard, and the ministers had several court meetings a day, and every time they planned political affairs with Yan, they were sentenced to prison and lawsuits.

summary:
summary line 7: Mou Rong, courtesy name Ziyou, was from Beihai. He was a professor of the "Great Xia Hou Shangshu." As a county magistrate, he had no jail cases. He served in various high offices, including Sili Xiaowei, Dahonglu, and Chief Agricultural Officer. He was well-versed in classics and had great talent for discussion. He became Taiwei under Emperor Suzong and died in office.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
融经明才高，善论议，朝廷皆服其能；帝数嗟叹，以为才堪宰相。
明年，代伏恭为司空，举动方重，甚得大臣节。
肃宗即位，以融先朝名臣，代赵憙为太尉，与憙参录尚书事。
建初四年薨，车驾亲临其丧。
时融长子麟归乡里，帝以其余子幼弱，敕太尉掾史教其威仪进止，赠赗恩宠笃密焉。
又赐冢茔地于显节陵下，除麟为郎。
韦彪字孟达，扶风平陵人也。
高祖贤，宣帝时为丞相。
祖赏，哀帝时为大司马。
彪孝行纯至，父母卒，哀毁三年，不出庐寝。
服竟，赢瘠骨立异形，医疗数年乃起。
好学洽闻，雅称儒宗。
建武末，举孝廉，除郎中，以病免，复归教授。
安贫乐道，恬于进趣，三辅诸儒莫不慕仰之。
显宗闻彪名，永平六年，召拜谒者，赐以车马衣服，三迁魏郡太守。
肃宗即位，以病免。
征为左中郎将、长乐卫尉，数陈政术，每归宽厚。
比上疏乞骸骨，拜为奉车都尉，秩中二千石，赏赐恩宠，俟于亲戚。
建初七年，车驾西巡府，以彪行太常从，数召入，问以三辅旧事，礼仪风俗。
彪因建言： 今西巡旧都，宜追录高祖、中宗功臣、褒显先勋，纪其子孙。
帝纳之。
行至长安，乃制诏京兆尹、右扶风求萧何、霍光后。
时光无苗裔，唯封何末孙熊为酂侯。
建初二年已封曹参后曹湛为平阳侯，故不复及焉。
乃厚赐彪钱珍羞食物，使归平陵上冢。
还，拜大鸿胪。
translation: 
Mou Rong was well versed in classics and had great talent, and he was good at discussion. The court admired his talent. The emperor sighed many times, thinking that Mou Rong had the talent of a prime minister.
In the second year, Dai Fugong became Sikong. His actions were upright and prudent, and he was highly respected as a minister.
When Suzong came to the throne, Mou Rong was a famous official in the previous dynasty. He replaced Zhao Xi as the Taiwei, and participated in the affairs of the general minister with Zhao Xi.
He died in the fourth year of his reign, and the emperor personally attended his funeral.
At that time, Mou Rong's eldest son Mou Lin returned to the countryside. The emperor thought that the other sons were young and weak, so he ordered the Taiwei to teach the emperor to teach him how to proceed with dignity and etiquette, and bestowed lavish favors on him.
He also gave a cemetery under the Xianjie Mausoleum and appointed Mou Lin as his minister.
◆Biography of Wei Biao Wei Biao, courtesy name Mengda, was from Pingling, Fufeng.
The great ancestor Wei Xian was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Zu Wei rewarded him, and he was the Grand Sima during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Wei Biao was a filial and upright person. When his parents died, he mourned for three years and guarded the tomb without leaving the house.
After taking the medicine, I became skinny and skinny, and my appearance also changed. It took several years for medical treatment to begin.
He was fond of learning and knowledgeable, and was elegantly called Confucian.
At the end of Jianwu's reign, he promoted filial piety and honesty, eliminated doctors, avoided retirement due to illness, and returned to teaching.
He lives in poverty and loves Taoism, but is indifferent to progress. All the Confucian scholars in the three auxiliaries admire him.
Xianzong heard about Wei Biao's reputation. In the sixth year of Yongping, he called him to pay homage to him, gave him carriages, horses and clothes, and moved him to be the prefect of Wei County.
Suzong ascended the throne and was relieved of his duties as prefect due to illness.
He was appointed as Zuo Zhonglang General and Changle Weiwei. He studied political skills and returned to the government every time.
He went to Shu several times to ask for his resignation, and he was appointed Captain of Fengche, with a rank of two thousand stones, and was rewarded with favors equal to those of his relatives.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor went on a hunting tour to the west. Wei Biao replaced Taichang Cong. He was summoned several times to ask about the old affairs, etiquette and customs of the three assistants.
Wei Biao therefore suggested: When inspecting the old capital in the west today, the heroes of Gaozu and Zhongzong should be traced, the heroes of Rongxian the first emperor should be praised, and their descendants should be recorded.
The emperor accepts.
When he arrived in Chang'an, he ordered Jing Zhaoyin and You Fufeng to seek the descendants of Xiao He and Huo Guang.
At that time, Huo Guang had no descendants, so he only named Xiao Xiong, a descendant of Xiao He, the Marquis of Zan.
In the second year of Jianchu, Cao Zhan, a descendant of Cao Shen, was granted the title of Marquis of Pingyang, so he no longer granted the title of descendant of Cao Shen.
So he gave Wei Biao money and delicacies and asked him to go back to Pingling to sweep the tomb and go to the tomb.
After returning, he worshiped him as Da Honglu.

summary:
summary line 8: Wei Biao, courtesy name Mengda, was from Pingling. He was a descendant of the prime minister Wei Xian. He was known for his filial piety, mourning his parents for three years. He was a learned Confucian who lived in poverty. He was summoned by Emperor Xianzong and became the Prefect of Wei County. He later served as Da Honglu. He submitted a memorial arguing that the selection of officials should prioritize filial piety and conduct over talent. He also advised the emperor to reduce harsh punishments and select officials with experience as state governors. He was known for his frugality and charity, leaving his family with no money. He wrote a twelve-chapter work titled "Wei Qingzi."

