Chunk 0: 
original: 
张汤，杜陵人也。
父为长安丞，出，汤为儿守舍。
还，鼠盗肉，父怨，笞汤。
汤掘熏得鼠及余肉，劾鼠掠治，传爰书，讯鞫论报，并取鼠与肉，具狱磔堂下。
父见之，视文辞如老狱吏，大惊，遂使书狱。
父死后，汤为长安吏。
周阳侯为诸卿时，尝系长安，汤倾身事之。
及出为侯，大与汤交，遍见贵人。
汤给事内史，为甯成掾，以汤为无害，言大府，调茂陵尉，治方中。
武安侯为丞相，征汤为史，荐补侍御史。
治陈皇后巫蛊狱，深竟党与，上以为能，迁太史大夫。
与赵禹共定诸律令，务在深文，拘守职之吏。
已而禹至少府，汤为廷尉，两人交欢，兄事禹。禹志在奉公孤立，而汤舞知以御人。
始为小吏，干没，与长安富贾田甲、鱼翁叔之属交私。
及列九卿，收接天下名士大夫，己内心虽不合，然阳浮道与之。
是时，上方乡文学，汤决大狱，欲傅古义，乃请博士弟子治《尚书》、《春秋》，补廷尉史，平亭疑法。
奏谳疑，必奏先为上分别其原，上所是，受而著谳法廷尉挈令，扬主之明。
奏事即谴，汤摧谢，乡上意所便，必引正监掾史贤者，曰： 固为臣议，如上责臣，臣弗用，愚抵此。
罪常释。
间即奏事，上善之，曰： 臣非知为此奏，乃监、掾、史某所为。
其欲荐吏，扬人之善、解人之过如此。
translation: 
Zhang Tang was from Duling.
His father was the magistrate of Chang'an County and was away on business, so Zhang Tang took care of the house as his son.
When his father returned home, he found that the mice had stolen the meat. He lost his temper and whipped Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang dug a rat hole and found the rat that had stolen the meat and the leftover meat. He stated the crime of the rat, tortured and interrogated it, sent out the interrogation record, and specified the procedure for reporting the verdict after the interrogation.
When his father saw this scene and saw that the diction of his judgment was like a seasoned judge, he was very surprised and asked him to learn prison documents.
After his father's death, Zhang Tang served as a county official in Chang'an.
When Zhou Yanghou Tiansheng was serving as the ninth minister, he was imprisoned in Chang'an Prison. Zhang Tang did his best to help and take care of him.
After Zhou Yanghou was released from prison, he was granted the title of Marquis. He became very friendly with Zhang Tang and introduced Zhang Tang to important people.
Zhang Tang was a subordinate of the internal historian and served as an official of Ning Cheng. Ning Cheng believed that Zhang Tang was extremely talented and recommended him to the Prime Minister's Office. He was transferred to Maolingwei to be in charge of the civil engineering of the mausoleum.
Marquis Wu'an served as prime minister, and Zhang Tang was appointed as an official in the prime minister's palace.
He recommended him to the emperor and served as his censor. When dealing with Queen Chen's witchcraft case, he investigated his accomplices in depth. The emperor believed that he was capable and promoted him to Taizhong doctor.
He and Zhao Yu jointly formulated various laws, focusing on strict binding and strict restraint on serving officials.
Soon, Zhao Yu was promoted to Shaofu, and Zhang Tang was appointed as a court captain. The two became friendly, and Zhang Tang treated Zhao Yu like an elder brother. Zhao Yu was honest and arrogant, while Zhang Tang liked to control others by playing tricks.
At first he became a minor official, speculating for profit, and secretly colluded with the wealthy businessmen Tian Jia and Yu Wengshu in Chang'an.
When he was in the position of Jiuqing, he recruited famous people and officials from all over the country. Although he disagreed with them in his heart, he pretended to respect them.
At this time, the emperor was fond of Confucianism. Zhang Tang decided a major case and wanted to adhere to the ancient principles, so he asked his disciples to study "Shangshu" and "Spring and Autumn" and serve as the history of the imperial court to correct the doubtful aspects of the law.
When submitting difficult cases for adjudication, all aspects of the reasons must be analyzed in advance to the emperor. Whatever the emperor affirms, the case will be accepted as a case decided in accordance with the law and entered into the court's written regulations to promote the sage of the Lord.
If the report work was criticized, Zhang Tang would admit his mistake and apologize. Following the emperor's intention, he would definitely name the capable assistant officials or clerks and say: They originally suggested to me, just as the emperor asked me to do. I was stupid enough not to adopt it.
Therefore his faults are often forgiven.
Sometimes he would submit a memorial to discuss matters. When the emperor approved of the memorial, he would say: I didn't know that such a memorial was written.
He wants to recommend his subordinates, promote someone's strengths or cover up someone's shortcomings.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
所治即上意所欲罪，予监吏深刻者；即上意所欲释，予监吏轻平者。
所治即豪，必舞文巧诋；即下户羸弱，时口言 虽文致法，上裁察。
于是往往释汤所言。
汤至于大吏，内行修，交通宾客饮食，于故人子弟为吏及贫昆弟，调护之尤厚，其造请诸公，不避寒暑。
是以汤虽文深意忌不专平，然得此声誉。
而深刻吏多为爪牙用者，依于文学之士。
丞相弘数称其美。
及治淮南、衡山、江都反狱，皆穷根本。
严助、伍被，上欲释之，汤争曰： 伍被本造谋，而助亲幸出入禁闼，腹心之臣，乃交私诸侯如此，弗诛，后不可治。
上可论之。
其治狱所巧排大臣自以为功，多此类。
繇是益尊任，迁御史大夫。
会浑邪等降，汉大兴兵伐匈奴，山东水旱，贫民流徙，皆卬给县官，县官空虚。
汤承上指，请造白金及五铢钱，笼天下盐铁，排富商大贾，出告缗令，锄豪强并兼之家，舞文巧诋以辅法。
汤每朝奏事，语国家用，日旰，天子忘食。
丞相取充位，天子事皆决汤。
百姓不安其生，骚动，县官所兴未获其利，奸吏并侵渔，于是痛绳以罪。
自公卿以下至于庶人咸指汤。
汤尝病，上自至舍视，其隆贵如此。
匈奴求和亲，群臣议前，博士狄山曰： 和亲便。
上问其便，山曰： 兵，凶器，未易数动。
高帝欲伐匈奴，大困平城，乃遂结和亲。
孝惠、高后时，天下安乐，及文帝欲事匈奴，北边萧然苦兵。
孝景时，吴、楚七国反，景帝往来东宫间，天下寒心数月。
吴、楚已破，竟景帝不言兵，天下富实。
今自陛下兴兵击匈奴，中国以空虚，边大困贫。
由是观之，不如和亲。
上问汤，汤曰： 此愚儒无知。
狄山曰： 臣固愚忠，若御史大夫汤，乃诈忠。
汤之治淮南、江都，以深文痛诋诸侯，别疏骨肉，使藩臣不自安，臣固知汤之诈忠。
translation: 
If the emperor wants to impose more crimes on a case, he will hand it over to supervisors who enforce the law strictly; if the emperor wants to tolerate a case, he will hand it over to supervisors who enforce the law lightly.
If the person being tried is a powerful person, he will definitely play with the legal provisions and severely punish him; when he encounters a poor person being tried, he often says that even if he is convicted according to the law, the emperor will still make a ruling and review.
So it is often as Zhang Tang said.
Although Zhang Tang was a high official, his private life was very serious. He made friends with guests, entertained and dined, and took better care of his old friends and children who were serving as subordinates, as well as his poor brothers of the same clan. He went to greet Sangong without avoiding the severe cold and heat.
Therefore, although Zhang Tang was profound in his methods but not pure and fair in his heart, he still gained this good reputation.
Most of the harsh and vicious officials who worked for him relied on Confucian scholars.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong praised him many times.
When investigating the rebellion cases of Huainan King, Hengshan King, and Jiangdu King, they all got to the bottom of it.
The emperor wanted to pardon Yan Zhu and Wu Bei, but Zhang Tang argued: Wu Bei originally planned a rebellion, while Yan Zhu was deeply favored and was a confidant who went in and out of the forbidden gates of the palace, but he had liaisons with the princes. If such people are not killed, similar situations in the future will not be easy to deal with.
So the emperor agreed to their sentence.
He handles cases to attack ministers and thinks it is his own merit. There are many such things.
As a result, Zhang Tang became more favored and trusted, and soon he was promoted to the imperial censor.
At that time, King Hunxie and others surrendered, and the Han Dynasty sent large-scale troops to attack the Xiongnu. Shandong was hit by floods and early disasters. The poor people were displaced and moved, relying on the government to provide food and clothing, and the warehouses were empty.
At this time, Zhang Tang obeyed the emperor's wishes and petitioned to mint silver coins and five-baht copper coins, monopolize the country's salt and ironware, squeeze out wealthy merchants, issue proclamations, eradicate the powerful mergers and acquisitions of large households, and play tricks on the legal provisions to assist the implementation of severe punishments.
Every time Zhang Tang went to court to report on his work, it took so long to talk about the state's financial expenses that the emperor forgot to eat.
The prime minister at the right time is just a vacant position, and all national affairs depend on Zhang Tang.
The common people could not live peacefully, there were riots, the government's undertakings did not gain benefits, and corrupt officials stole and embezzled, so they were punished severely.
Therefore, everyone from the ministers to the common people blamed Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang fell ill once, and the emperor went to inquire about his illness in person. He was such a noble person.
The Xiongnu came to ask for peace, and the ministers discussed it in front of the emperor. Dr. Dishan said: It is suitable to get married.
The emperor asked him the appropriate reason, and Di Shan said: Weapons are deadly weapons, so don't use them easily and frequently.
Emperor Gao wanted to attack the Xiongnu, but was besieged in Pingcheng, so he finally concluded a peace.
During the period of Emperor Hui and Queen Gao, the country was peaceful and happy. When Emperor Wen wanted to deal with the Xiongnu, the northern border was harassed and the people suffered from war.
During the period of Emperor Jing, seven kingdoms including Wu and Chu rebelled. Emperor Jing went back and forth between the two palaces to discuss the matter and worried about it for several months.
After the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu were crushed, Emperor Jing never talked about war, and the country became rich and fulfilled.
Since your Majesty deployed troops to attack the Xiongnu, the country has become empty, and most of the people on the border are in embarrassment and poverty.
From this point of view, it is better to get married.
The emperor asked Zhang Tang, and Zhang Tang said: This is a stupid Confucian scholar who is ignorant.
Di Shan said: Although I am foolish and loyal, but Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, is deceitful and loyal.
For example, Zhang Tang used harsh and severe methods in handling the cases of King Huainan and King Jiangdu, wantonly slandered the princes, and alienated the emperor's closest relatives, thus making the kings of various feudal states feel uneasy. I already knew that Zhang Tang was cheating.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
于是上作色曰： 吾使生居一郡，能无使虏入盗乎？ 山曰： 不能。
曰： 居一县？
曰： 不能。
复曰： 居一鄣间？
山自度辩穷且下吏，曰： 能。
乃谴山乘鄣。
至月余，匈奴斩山头而去。
是后群臣震詟。
汤客田甲虽贾人，有贤操，始汤为小吏，与钱通，及为大吏，而甲所以责汤行义，有烈士之风。
汤为御史大夫七岁，败。
河东人李文，故尝与汤有隙，已而为御史中丞，荐数从中文事有可以伤汤者，不能为地。
汤有所爱史鲁谒居，知汤弗平，使人上飞变告文奸事，事下汤，汤治论杀文，而汤心知谒居为之。
上问： 变事从迹安起？
汤阳惊曰： 此殆文故人怨之。
谒居病卧闾里主人，汤自往视病，为谒居摩足，赵国以冶铸为业，王数讼铁官事，汤常排赵王。
赵王求汤阴事。
谒居尝案赵王，赵王怨之，并上书告： 汤大臣也，史谒居有病，汤至为摩足，疑与为大奸。
事下延尉。
谒居病死，事连其弟，弟系导官。
汤亦治它囚导官，见谒居弟，欲阴为之，而阳不省。
谒居弟不知而怨汤，使人上书，告汤与谒居谋，共变李文。
事下减宣。
宣尝与汤有隙，及得此事，穷竟其事，未奏也。
会人有盗发孝文园瘗钱，丞相青翟朝，与汤约俱谢，至前，汤念独丞相以四时行园，当谢，汤无与也，不谢。
丞相谢，上使御史案其事。
translation: 
At this time, the emperor changed his expression and said: If I send you to garrison a county, can you prevent the Huns from coming in and plundering it? Dishan said: No.
The emperor said: How about garrisoning a county?
Dishan replied: No.
The emperor then said: What about garrisoning a fortress?
Dishan himself estimated that after exhausting his defense, he would be handed over to the judicial officials for punishment, so he said: "Yes."
So the emperor sent Dishan to guard a castle on the border.
After more than a month, the Huns chopped off Dishan's head and left.
From then on, the ministers were shocked and frightened.
Zhang Tang's guest Tian Jia, although a businessman, has a virtuous character. When Zhang Tang was a junior official, he and Zhang Tang were money friends. When Zhang Tang became a senior official, Tian Jia blamed Zhang Tang for his moral faults and the demeanor of a loyal and generous man.
Zhang Tang served as the imperial censor for seven years and collapsed.
Li Wen, a native of Hedong, once had a quarrel with Zhang Tang, and later served as the censor Zhongcheng. He repeatedly discovered issues that could be used to harm Zhang Tang from the contents of court documents, leaving no room for him.
Zhang Tang had a favorite official named Lu Yeju. Knowing that Zhang Tang was aggrieved by this, he ordered someone to write an urgent memorial to report Li Wen's misdeeds. The matter was handed over to Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang tried and decided to kill Li Wen, but Zhang Tang knew in his heart that Lu Yeju had done it.
The emperor asked: How did the letter to report the emergency come about?
Zhang Tang pretended to be surprised and said: This is probably because Li Wen's acquaintances resent him.
Later, Lu Yeju fell ill and was lying in the landlord's house in the countryside. Zhang Tang went to visit his condition in person and massaged Yeju's legs and feet. People in the state of Tang were engaged in smelting and casting. King Zhao repeatedly litigated the government's appointment of iron officials, and Zhang Tang often attacked the king.
The king asked about Zhang Tang's private affairs.
Lu Yeju once reported to King Tiao. King Tiao resented him and wrote a letter to report: Zhang Tang is a minister, and Lu Yiju, a minor official, is ill. Zhang Tang went so far as to massage his legs and feet, suspecting that he and Lu Yeju had done bad things together.
This matter will be handed over to Tingwei.
Lu Yeju died of illness, and the problem involved his younger brother, who was imprisoned in the Directorate.
Zhang Tang also went to the director's office to interrogate other prisoners. He saw Lu Yeju's younger brother and wanted to help him secretly, but pretended to ignore him.
Lu Yeju's younger brother was ignorant and resented Zhang Tang. He sent a letter to report Zhang Tang and Lu Yeju's conspiracy, and jointly reported Li Wen.
The dispatch will be handed over to the public for processing.
Jiaxuan once had a estrangement with Zhang Tang. When he accepted the matter, he investigated the matter to the bottom of the matter and did not file a report.
It happened that someone secretly dug up the burial money buried in the tomb of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty. Prime Minister Qing Zhai went to court and agreed with Zhang Tang to apologize together. Before the emperor, Zhang Tang thought that only the prime minister visited the cemetery according to the four seasons and should apologize. It had nothing to do with me and he did not apologize.
After the prime minister apologized, the emperor sent the censor to investigate the matter.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
汤欲致其文丞相见知，丞相患之。
三长史皆害汤，欲陷之。
始，长史朱买臣素怨汤，语在其传。
王朝，齐人，以术至右内史。
边通学短长，刚暴人也。官至济南相。
故皆居汤右，已而失官，守长史，诎体于汤。
汤数行丞相事，知此三长史素贵，常陵折之。
故三长史合谋曰： 始汤约与君谢，已而卖君；今欲劾君以宗庙事，此欲代君耳。
吾知汤阴事。
使吏捕案汤左田信等，曰汤且欲为请奏，信辄先知之，居物致富，与汤分之。
及它奸事。
事辞颇闻。
上问汤曰： 吾所为，贾人辄知，益居其物，是类有以吾谋告之者。
汤不谢，又阳惊曰： 固宜有。
减宜亦奏谒居事。
上以汤怀诈面欺，使使八辈簿责汤。
汤具自道无此，不服。
于是上使赵禹责汤。
禹至，让汤曰： 君何不知分也！
君所治，夷灭者几何人矣！
今人言君皆有状，天子重致君狱，欲令君自为计，何多以对为？
汤乃为书谢曰： 汤无尺寸之功，起刀笔吏，陛下幸致位三公，无以塞责。
然谋陷汤者，三长史也。
遂自杀。
汤死，家产直不过五百金，皆所得奉赐，无它赢。
昆弟诸子欲厚葬汤，汤母曰： 汤为天子大臣，被恶言而死，何厚葬为！
载以牛车，有棺而无椁。
上闻之，曰： 非此母不生此子。
乃尽按诛三长史。
丞相青翟自杀。
出田信。
上惜汤，复稍进其子安世。
translation: 
Zhang Tang wanted to deal with the prime minister according to the terms of knowing and acting, and the prime minister was worried about this matter.
The three chief ministers under the prime minister all hated Zhang Tang and wanted to frame him.
At first, Zhu Maichen, the chief historian, always resented Zhang Tang. The incident can be found in "The Biography of Zhu Maichen".
The dynasty was a native of Qi, and he relied on Confucianism to achieve the right internal history.
Bian Tong studied the art of vertical and horizontal manipulation. He was a strong and violent man who rose to the rank of Prime Minister of Jinan.
They were all above Zhang Tang in the past, but soon they lost their official positions. They were appointed as acting chiefs, and were entrusted to serve Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang concurrently took charge of the post of prime minister many times. Knowing that the three long history officials of Japan were always arrogant, he often bullied and suppressed them.
Therefore, the three long historians planned together and said: First, Zhang Tang made an appointment with the prime minister to apologize to the emperor, and then betrayed the prime minister; now he wants to impeach the prime minister with his ancestors' affairs, just to replace the prime minister.
We know Zhang Tang’s secret dealings.
So a judge was sent to arrest Zhang Tang's subordinates Tian Xin and others who were investigating Zhang Tang, saying that Zhang Tang was about to report to the emperor. Tian Xin often knew about these things first, so he hoarded supplies and made a fortune, and divided his wealth with Zhang Tang.
and other bad things.
Many confessions of these things were circulated.
The emperor asked Zhang Tang: "The merchants often know in advance some of the things I do, and they hoard those supplies more and more. It is as if someone has told them my plan in advance."
Zhang Tang did not apologize, but pretended to be surprised and said: "It seems so."
At the same time, the publicity was reduced and the matter about Lu Yeju was reported.
The emperor really believed that Zhang Tang was treacherous and lied to his face, and sent eight groups of envoys to question Zhang Tang one by one according to the charges listed in the document.
Zhang Tangdu claimed that he did not pursue the matter and refused to explain.
So the emperor sent Yu to question Zhang Dang.
Pan Lai arrived and scolded Zhang Tang: "Why don't you know your identity?"
How many families have been exterminated due to your handling of the case?
Now people say that your problems all have specific circumstances, and the emperor is very reluctant to put you in jail. He wants you to find a solution on your own, so why bother with more verifications?
Zhang Tang then wrote a report saying: I have no merits. I am a clerk and your majesty favored me to serve as the third official. There is no way to remedy my guilt.
However, it was three long history men who plotted to frame me.
So he committed suicide.
After Zhang Tang's death, the value of his family property did not exceed five hundred gold. They were all salary and rewards, and there was no other family property.
The brothers and sons wanted to bury Zhang Tang in a grand manner. Zhang Tang's mother said: As a minister of the emperor, Zhang Tang died of bad words and false accusations. How can he be buried in a grand manner?
So the corpse was loaded on an ox cart, with an inner coffin but no outer coffin.
When the emperor heard about this, he said: "A mother like this cannot give birth to a son like this."
So he investigated and killed three long histories.
Prime Minister Qing Zhai committed suicide.
Release Tian Xin from prison.
The emperor took pity and withdrew from Tang, and continued to promote his son Zhang Anshi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
安世字子孺，少以父任为郎。
用善书给事尚书，精力于职，休沐未尝出。
上行幸河东，尝亡书三箧，诏问莫能知，唯安世识之，具作其事。
后购求得书，以相校无所遗失。
上奇其材，擢为尚书令，迁光禄大夫。
昭帝即位，大将军霍光秉政，以安世笃行，光亲重之。
会左将军上官桀父子及御史大夫桑弘羊皆与燕王、盖主谋反诛，光以朝无旧臣，白用安世为右将军光禄勋，以自副焉。
久之，天子下诏曰： 右将军光禄勋安世辅政宿卫，肃敬不怠，十有三年，咸以康宁。
夫亲亲任贤，唐、虞之道也，其封安世为富平侯。
明年，昭帝崩，未葬，大将军光白太后，徙安世为车骑将军，与共征立昌邑王。
王行淫乱，光复与安世谋，废王、尊立宣帝。
帝初即位，褒赏大臣，下诏曰： 夫褒有德，赏有功，古今之通义也。
车骑将军光禄勋富平侯安世，宿卫忠正，宣德明恩，勤劳国家，守职秉义，以安宗庙，其益封万六百户，功次大将军光。
安世子千秋、延寿、彭祖，皆中郎将侍中。
大将军光薨后数月，御史大夫魏相上封事曰： 圣王褒有德以怀万方，显有功以劝百寮，是以朝廷尊荣，天下乡风。
国家承祖宗之业，制诸侯之重，新失大将军，宜宣章盛德以示天下，显明功臣以填藩国。
毋空大位，以塞争权，所以安社稷绝未萌也。
车骑将军安世事孝武皇帝三十余年，忠信谨厚，勤劳政事，夙夜不怠，与大将军定策，天下受其福，国家重臣也，宜尊其位，以为大将军，毋令领光禄勋事，使专精神，忧念天下，思惟得失。
安世子延寿重厚，可以为光禄勋，领宿卫臣。
上亦欲用之。
安世闻指，惧不敢当。请闻求见，免冠顿首曰： 老臣耳妄闻，言之为先事，不言情不达，诚自量不足以居大位，继大将军后，唯天子财哀，以全老臣之命。
上笑曰： 君言泰谦。
translation: 
An Shi, named Ziru, was appointed as a Langguan when he was young due to his father's status.
He served as minister with knowledge of books, performed his duties meticulously, and never went out on vacation.
When the emperor visited Hedong, he lost three boxes of books. No one knew about the edict. Only An Shi remembered them and wrote down all the relevant contents of the lost books.
Later I purchased the book and proofread it, not missing anything.
The emperor was so talented that he was promoted to Shangshu Ling and moved to Guanglu doctor.
Emperor Zhao came to the throne, and General Huo Guang was in power. Because of An Shi's loyalty, Huo Guang valued him very much.
At that time, the left general Shangguan Jie and his son and the imperial censor Sang Hongyang were killed in rebellion against King Yan and Lord Gai. Since there were no old ministers in the court, Huo Guang asked An Shi to be appointed as the right general Guang Luxun to assist him.
A long time later, the emperor issued an edict saying: The right general Guang Luxun Anshi has served as an assistant to the governor of Suwei. He has been respectful and respectful. For the past thirteen years, everything has been safe and sound.
Keeping relatives close and appointing wise men was the way Yao and Shun governed their country. Anshi was granted the title of Marquis Fuping.
The next year, Emperor Zhao died without being buried. The general Huo Guang told the Queen Mother that he would transfer An Shi to the position of general of chariots and cavalry, and together they would conquer the king of Changyi.
The king committed adultery, and Huo Guang and An Shi planned to depose the king and enthrone him as Emperor Xuan.
When Emperor Xuan was first established, he praised ministers and Xia Shao said: "Rewards are virtuous and rewards are meritorious. This is the universal meaning of ancient and modern times."
Chariot General Guang Luxun, Fuping Hou Anshi, Su Wei Zhongzheng, promoted the emperor's kindness, worked diligently in state affairs, abided by his duties, observed morality, maintained the ancestral temple, and granted 10,600 households. His merits are second to that of the general Huo Guang.
An Shi's sons Qianqiu, Yanshou and Pengzu were all ministers of Zhonglang.
A few months after the death of General Huo Guang, the imperial censor, Prime Minister Wei, sealed a memorial and said: The Holy King rewards virtuous people to attract people from all over the world, and shows meritorious service to persuade hundreds of officials. Therefore, the imperial court is honored and the world is subdued.
The country inherits the legacy of its ancestors, controls the survival of its princes, and loses its new general. It should promote its holy virtues to show the world, and commend its meritorious officials to control and pacify the vassal country.
Don't leave high positions vacant to avoid power struggles. This is to stabilize the country and prevent political strife from budding.
General Chariot and Cavalry Anshi served Emperor Xiaowu for more than thirty years. He was loyal and prudent, diligent in government affairs, and worked tirelessly day and night to make decisions together with the general. The world was blessed by him. He was an important minister of the country. He should respect his position and be appointed as a general. He should not take on honors and honors, so that he could concentrate his mind, worry about the world, and think about gains and losses.
An Shi's son, Yanshou, was stable and kind, and could be appointed as Guang Luxun and also hold the post of Su Wei.
The emperor also wanted to use An Shi and his son.
When An Shi heard about it, he was afraid and didn't take it seriously. He took the time to ask for an audience. He took off his crown and kowtowed and said: "I heard this on my own, and said it in advance before it was implemented. It would be difficult for me to handle it without explaining the situation first. I really don't think I am qualified to hold an important official position after the general." I hope the emperor will rule to save the life of the old minister.
The emperor smiled and said: You are too modest in your words.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
君而不可，尚谁可者！
安世深辞弗能得。
后数日，竟拜为大司马车骑将军，领尚书事。
数月，罢车骑将军屯兵，更为卫将军，两宫卫尉，城门、北军兵属焉。
时，霍光子禹为右将军，上亦以禹为大司马，罢其右将军屯兵，以虚尊加之，而实夺其众。
后岁余，禹谋反，夷宗族，安世素小心畏忌，已内忧矣。
其女孙敬为霍氏外属妇，当相坐，安世瘦惧，形于颜色，上怪而怜之，以问左右，乃赦敬，以尉其意。
安世浸恐。
职典枢机，以谨慎周密自著，外内无间。
每定大政，已决，辄移病出；闻有诏令，乃惊，使吏之丞相府问焉。
自朝廷大臣莫知其与议也。
尝有所荐，其人来谢，安世大恨，以为举贤达能，岂有私谢邪？
绝井复为通。
有郎功高不调，自言，安世应曰： 君之功高，明主所知。
人臣执事，何长短而自言乎！
绝不许。
已而郎果迁。
莫府长史迁，辞去之官，安世问以过失。
长史曰： 将军为明主股肱，而士无所进，论者以为讥。
安世曰 明主在上，贤不肖较然，臣下自修而已，何知士而荐之？
其欲匿名迹远权势如此。
为光禄勋，郎有醉小便殿上，主事白行法，安世曰： 何以知其不反水浆邪？
如何以小过成罪！
郎淫官婢，婢兄自言，安世曰： 奴以恚怒，诬污衣冠。
告署適奴。
其隐人过失，皆此类也。
安世自见父子尊显，怀不自安，为子延寿求出补吏，上以为北地太守。
岁余，上闵安世年老，复征延寿为左曹、太仆。
初，安世兄贺幸于卫太子，太子败，宾客皆诛，安世为贺上书，得下蚕室。
translation: 
If you can't do it, who else can!
An Shijian resigned but the emperor refused.
A few days later, he was still appointed as the Grand Sima Cavalry General and also in charge of the Secretariat.
A few months later, the generals of chariots and cavalry were stopped to station troops, and they were changed to generals of guard. The two palace guards were appointed, and the city gate and northern army soldiers were subordinated to Anshi.
At that time, Huo Guang's son Huo Yu was the right general, and the emperor also appointed Huo Yu as the Grand Sima. He removed the right general from garrisoning troops and added him with an official title, but in fact took away his military power.
More than a year later, Huo Yu rebelled and reduced his clan. An Shi, who had always been cautious and fearful, was already very worried.
His granddaughter Zhang Jing was the wife of a foreign relative of the Huo family, so she should be executed in succession. An Shi was already very thin and haggard. The emperor was surprised and felt pity for him, so he asked around and pardoned Zhang Jing to comfort his heart.
An Shi was even more frightened.
In charge of national power, he is known for his cautiousness and thoroughness, with no loopholes externally or internally.
Every time a major political decision was made, he immediately complained of illness and emigrated. When he heard the edict, he was surprised and sent people to the prime minister's house to inquire.
The court ministers did not know that An Shi was involved in the plot.
An Shi once recommended an official to serve, and he came to thank him. An Shi regretted it, thinking that there was no reason to thank him privately for recommending a talented person.
Then cut off all contact with this person.
There was an official who said that he would not be promoted because of his merits. An Shi said: The master knows that your merits are high.
How can one judge one's own merits when serving as a minister?
Refuse to promote him.
But soon the official was promoted.
The shogunate Shi transferred him to another post, and when he resigned, Anshi asked him what he had done wrong.
Chang Shi said: If the general is the leader of the Ming Dynasty, but the scholars are not promoted, people will ridicule you.
An Shi said: The Ming Lord is above, and the virtuous and the unworthy can be clearly distinguished. The ministers are just self-study, how can they understand the scholars and recommend them?
This is how he wants to remain anonymous and stay away from power.
During the reign of Guang Luxun, a drunken man urinated in the palace. The chief reported that he should be dealt with according to law. An Shi said: How do you know it was not caused by anti-water slurry?
How can you use a child to punish someone!
An officer said that he had raped an official and his maidservant, and the maidservant brother himself told the story. An Shi said: The servant was angry and falsely accused the scholar-bureaucrat.
Let the government blame the slaves.
This is the case where he hides his faults.
An Shi felt uneasy when he saw his father and son showing off their dignity. He asked to go out to replace his son in order to extend his life, and the emperor was appointed as the governor of the North.
More than a year later, the emperor took pity on An Shi's old age and called Yanshou as Zuocao's servant.
At first, An Shi's brother Zhang He was favored by Prince Wei, but the crown prince failed and all the guests were killed. An Shi wrote a letter for Zhang He, and Zhang He was spared the death penalty and sentenced to castration.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
后为掖庭令，而宣帝以皇曾孙收养掖庭。
贺内伤太子无辜，而曾孙孤幼，所以视养拊循，恩甚密焉。
及曾孙壮大，贺教书，令受《诗》，为取许妃，以家财聘之。
曾孙数有征怪，语在《宣纪》。
贺闻知，为安世道之，称其材美。
安世辄绝止，以为少主在上，不宜称述曾孙。
及宣帝即位，而贺已死。
上谓安世曰： 掖廷令平生称我，将军止之，是也。
上追思贺恩，欲封其冢为恩德侯，置家冢二百家。
贺有一子蚤死，无子，子安世小男彭祖。
彭祖又小与上同席研书，指欲封之，先赐爵关内侯。
故安世深辞贺封，又求损守冢户数，稍减至三十户。
上曰： 吾自为掖廷令，非为将军也。
安世乃止，不敢复言。
遂下诏曰： 其为故掖廷令张贺置守冢三十家。
上自处置其里，居冢西斗鸡翁舍南，上少时所尝游处也。
明年，复下诏曰： 朕微眇时，故掖廷令张贺辅道朕躬，修文学经术，恩惠卓异，厥功茂焉。
《诗》云： 无言不仇，无德不报。
其封贺弟子侍中关内侯彭祖为阳都侯，赐贺谥曰阳都哀侯。
时，贺有孤孙霸，年七岁，拜为散骑、中郎将，赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
安世以父子封侯，在位大盛，乃辞禄。
诏都内别臧张氏无名钱以百万数。
安世尊为公侯，食邑万户，然身衣弋绨，夫人自纺绩，家童七百人，皆有手技作事，内治产业，累织纤微，是以能殖其货，富于大将军光。
天子甚尊惮大将军，然内亲安世，心密于光焉。
元康四年春，安世病，上疏归侯，乞骸骨。
天子报曰： 将军年老被病，朕甚闵之。
虽不能视事，折冲万里，君先帝大臣，明于治乱，朕所不及，得数问焉，何感而上书归卫将军富平侯印？
薄朕忘故，非所望也！
愿将军强餐食，近医药，专精神，以辅天年。
安世复强起视事，至秋薨。
天子赠印绶，送以轻车介士，谥曰敬侯。
赐茔杜东，将作穿复土，起冢祠堂。
translation: 
Later, he was appointed as the Order of Ye Ting, and Emperor Xuan adopted him as the emperor's great-grandson in Ye Ting.
Zhang He felt sad that the prince was innocent and his great-grandson was orphaned, so he cared for him and cared for him with deep kindness.
When his great-grandson grew up, Zhang He taught school and ordered him to write "Shi". He married Concubine Xu for him and used his family wealth as a betrothal gift.
Strange things happened to my great-grandson many times, which can be found in "Xuan Di Ji".
Zhang He heard about it and explained it to An Shi and praised him for his intelligence.
An Shi immediately stopped Zhang He and believed that the young master should not praise his great-grandson while he was in power.
By the time Emperor Xuan came to the throne, Zhang He had died.
The emperor said to An Shi: Ye Tingling praised me throughout his life, and the general stopped him, which is what he did right.
The emperor commemorated Zhang Heen and wanted to posthumously confer him the title of Marquis of Ende and set up two hundred tombs.
Zhang He had a son who died early and had no offspring, so he made An Shi's youngest son Peng Zu his adopted son.
When Peng Zu was young, he studied scriptures with the emperor at the same table. He planned to reward him, so he first gave it to the Marquis of Guannei.
An Shi insisted on declining the reward, and also requested that the number of households guarding the tomb be reduced to thirty.
The emperor said: I rewarded Ye Tingling myself, not the general.
An Shi stopped then, not daring to say anything more.
The emperor then went down to Shao and said: Thirty tombs should be set up for Zhang He, the former Yeting order.
The emperor arranged his residence by himself, and lived in the south of Dou Wengshe in the west of the tomb, where the emperor used to play when he was a boy.
The next year, he went to Shao again and said: When I was young, Ye Ting ordered Zhang He to tutor me and study literature and classics. My kindness was outstanding and my contribution was profound.
"Poetry" says: There is no language that does not answer, and there is no kindness that does not repay.
Zhang He's disciple Peng Zu, the Marquis of Guannei in the Middle Kingdom, should be granted the title of Marquis of Yangdu, and Zhang He Mi should be given the title of Aihou of Yangdu.
At that time, Zhang He had an orphan grandson, Zhang Ba, who was seven years old. He was worshiped as a general of Sanqi Zhonglang, and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
An Shi resigned from his salary because his father and son were granted the title of marquis and were prominent in their reign.
The emperor then issued an order to collect millions of Zhang's unnamed coins in the capital's treasury.
An Shizun was a prince, and he had thousands of households in the city. However, he was dressed in black silk, his wife personally spun the crops, and he had 700 servants. They were all skilled in doing things, managed the industry internally, and accumulated small amounts of property. Therefore, he was able to increase his industry and become rich and prosperous as a general.
The emperor respected and feared the general, but he was close to Ji Shi and tried his best to hide his feelings from Huo Guang.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuankang, An Shi became ill. Shangshu returned it to the Marquis and begged for the bones to be returned to his hometown.
The Emperor said: The general is old and sick, and I have great pity on him.
Although you are unable to do things, you have traveled thousands of miles. As a minister of the late emperor, you know how to control chaos. I am unable to do so. I have been able to ask many times, why did you feel sad and write a letter to return the seal of General Wei Fuping?
It is not my wish to force me to forget my past!
I hope the general can eat hard, take medicine, and concentrate on his energy, so that he can support his life.
An Shi worked hard again and died in autumn.
The emperor presented a seal and ribbon, and sent light chariots and soldiers with the title of "Jinghou".
The land for the tomb was given to Du County, the tomb was dug, and the ancestral hall was built.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
子延寿嗣。
延寿已历位九卿，既嗣侯，国在陈留，别邑在魏郡，租入岁千余万。
延寿自以身无功德，何以能久堪先人大国，数上书让减户邑，又因弟阳都侯彭祖口陈至诚，天子以为有让，乃徙封平原，并一国，户口如故，而租税减半。
薨，谥曰爱侯。
子勃嗣。为散骑、谏大夫。
元帝初即位，诏列侯举茂材，勃举太官献丞陈汤。
汤有罪，勃坐削户二百，会薨，故赐谥曰缪侯。
后汤立功西域，世以勃为知人。
子临嗣。
临亦谦俭，每登阁殿，常叹曰： 桑、霍为我戒，岂不厚哉！
且死，分施宗族故旧，薄葬不起坟。
临尚敬武公主。
薨，子放嗣。
鸿嘉中，上欲遵武帝故事，与近臣游宴，放以公主子开敏得幸。
放取皇后弟平恩侯许嘉女，上为放供张，赐甲第，充以乘舆服饰，号为天子取妇，皇后嫁女。
大官私官并供其第，两宫使者冠盖不绝，赏赐以千万数。
放为侍中、中郎将，监平乐屯兵，置莫府，仪比将军。
与上卧起，宠爱殊绝，常从为微行出游，北至甘泉，南至长杨、五莋，斗鸡走马长安中，积数年。
是时，上诸舅皆害其宠，白太后。
太后以上春秋富，动作不节，甚以过放。
时数有灾异，议者归咎放等。
于是丞相宣、御史大夫方进奏： 放骄蹇纵恣，奢淫不制。
前侍御史修等四人奉使至放家逐名捕贼，时放见在，奴从者闭门设兵弩射吏，距使者不肯内。
知男子李游君欲献女，使乐府音监景武强求不得，使如康等之其家，贼伤三人。
translation: 
The son Yanshou succeeded to the title of nobility.
Yanshou has been in the rank of nine ministers, and after he became the heir, the feudal state was in Chenliu, and his villa was in Weijun. The tax revenue was more than 10 million yuan every year.
How could he live in Youren's great country for a long time because he had no merit in extending his life? He wrote many times to ask for a reduction in his household size, and expressed his sincerity in the words of his younger brother Pengzu, Marquis of Yangdu. The emperor thought he had the virtue of humility, so he moved to Pingyuan County and merged it into one country. The households remained as before, and the taxes were reduced by half.
After his death, Mi was named Aihou.
His son, Zhang Bo, was the official admonishing official of Sanqi.
When Emperor Yuan came to the throne at the beginning, he ordered the princes to promote high-quality talents, and Zhang Bo promoted eunuchs to serve as ministers.
Chen Tang was guilty, and Zhang Bo was implicated and cut off two hundred households. When he was about to die, he was named Mihou Hou.
Later, Chen Tang made great contributions to the Western Regions, and the world praised Zhang Bo as a wise man.
He was succeeded by his son Zhang Lin.
Zhang Lin was also modest and frugal. Every time he went to the pavilion, he would often sigh: "Sang and Huo taught me a lesson, didn't they teach me a profound lesson?"
When he was about to die, he gave away his property to his family and old friends, and could not afford to bury him in a grave.
Zhang Lin married Princess Jingwu.
After his death, Zi Zhang succeeded to the throne.
During the Hongjia period, the emperor wanted to follow Emperor Wu's old rules and have banquets with his ministers. Zhang Fang was favored because he was the son of a princess and was smart.
Zhang Fang married the daughter of the Queen's younger brother Ping Enhou Xu Jia. The emperor made arrangements for Zhang Fang and gave Zhang Fang a residence in the first place and additional carriages and clothes. It was said that the emperor married a wife and the queen married a daughter.
Officials sent by the emperor and empress were provided for the use of the mansion. Envoys from the two palaces were constantly traveling with carriages and horses, and they were rewarded with tens of millions.
Zhang let the generals in the service, supervise the troops in Ping Le, and set up a shogunate. The etiquette was the same as that of the generals.
He slept with the emperor and was greatly favored. He often traveled with plain clothes to Ganquan in the north, Changyang and Wuzha in the south, and fought in Chang'an city for as long as Fu Nian.
At that time, all the emperor's uncles hated Zhang Fang for being favored and told the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother severely scolded Zhang Fang because the emperor was young and acted uncontrollably.
There were many disasters at that time, and people blamed Zhang Fang and others.
So Prime Minister Xue Xuan and Imperial Censor Zhai Fangjin reported: "We are arrogant and indulgent, and we are extravagant and promiscuous without restraint."
The former servant Yu Shixiu and four other people were ordered to catch a thief at Zhang Fang's house. Zhang Fang was present at that time, and his slaves set up crossbows to shoot at the arresting officials behind closed doors, and refused to allow the envoys to enter.
Knowing that the man Li Youjun wanted to sacrifice his daughter, he sent Yuefu Music Supervisor Jingwu to force him to do so, so Zhang Fang sent his servant Kang to wait at Li Youjun's house, injuring three people.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又以县官事怨乐府游徼莽，而使大奴骏等四十余人群党盛兵弩，白昼入乐府攻射官寺，缚束长吏子弟，斫破器物，宫中皆奔走伏匿。
奔自髡钳，衣赭衣，及守令史调等皆徒跣叩头谢放，放乃止。
奴从者支属并乘权势为暴虐，至求吏妻不得，杀其夫，或恚一人，妄杀其亲属，辄亡人放弟，不得，幸得勿治。
放行轻薄，连犯大恶，有感动阴阳之咎，为臣不忠首，罪名虽显，前蒙恩。
骄逸悖理，与背畔无异，臣子之恶，莫大于是，不宜宿卫在位。
臣请免放归国，以销众邪之萌，厌海内之心。
上不得已，左迁放为北地都尉。
数月，复征入侍中。
太后以放为言，出放为天水属国都尉。
永始、元延间，比年日蚀，故久不还放，玺书劳问不绝。
居岁余，征放归第视母公主疾。
数月，主有瘳，出放为何东都尉。
上虽爱放，然上迫太后，下用大臣，故常涕泣而遣之。
后复征放为侍中光禄大夫，秩中二千石。
岁余，丞相方进复奏放，上不得已，免放，赐钱五百万，遣就国。
数月，成帝崩，放思慕哭泣而死。
初，安世长子千秋与霍光子禹俱为中郎将，将兵随度辽将军范明友击乌桓。
还，谒大将军光，问千秋战斗方略，山川形势，千秋口对兵事，画地成图，无所忘失。
光复问禹，禹不能记，曰： 皆有文书。
光由是贤千秋，以禹为不材，叹曰： 霍氏世衰，张氏兴矣！
及禹诛灭，而安世子孙相继，自宣、元以来为侍中、中常侍、诸曹散骑、列校尉者凡十余人。
功臣之世，唯有金氏、张氏，亲近宠贵，比于外戚。
放子纯嗣侯，恭俭自修，明习汉家制度故事，有敬侯遗风。
王莽时不失爵，建武中历位至大司空，更封富平之别乡为武始侯。
translation: 
He also resented Yuefu's wandering around because of official affairs, so he sent Da Nujun and more than 40 people armed with crossbows to break into Yuefu during the day and attack the government offices, tie up the officials' children, break the utensils, and everyone in the palace ran and hid.
Mang Zi put on torture tools and the ocher clothes worn by prisoners, and Shou Ling Shi Tiao and others all kowtowed to Zhang Fang with bare feet and apologized, and Zhang Fang stopped.
The subordinates of the slaves took advantage of their power to commit cruelty. If they failed to seize the wives of officials, they would kill their husbands. Sometimes, out of hatred for a person, they would kill relatives indiscriminately and immediately escape into Zhang Fang's house. They could not be captured and were fortunately not punished.
Zhang Fang behaved frivolously and committed serious crimes repeatedly. He was responsible for shaking Yin and Yang.
Being arrogant and unreasonable is the same as betrayal. The minister's crime is nothing greater than this. He is no longer suitable for the important position of the guard.
I ask that Zhang Fang be dismissed and return to the feudal state to eliminate all kinds of crimes in order to satisfy the people at home.
The emperor had no choice but to demote Zhang Fang to the rank of Captain of the North.
A few months later, he was recruited into the service.
Because Zhang Fang came forward to speak again, the Queen Mother appointed Zhang Fang as the captain of the Tianshui Kingdom.
During the Yongshi and Yuanyan years, there were consecutive solar eclipses, so Zhang Fang was not recalled for a long time, and the emperor issued endless edicts to express his condolences.
More than a year later, Zhang Fang was summoned to return home to treat his mother and princess as ill.
A few months later, the emperor recovered from his illness and appointed Zhang Fang as the captain of Hedong.
Although the emperor loved Zhang Fang, he was forced by the empress dowager and listened to the ministers, so he often shed tears when he sent Zhang Fang away.
Later, Zhang Fang was recruited as the official Guanglu official in the service, with a rank of two thousand stones.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Fang Jin again discussed Zhang Fang. The emperor had no choice but to dismiss Zhang Fang, gave him five million yuan, and sent him to the country.
A few months later, Emperor Cheng died, and Zhang Fang also died crying because of longing for him.
At the beginning, An Shi's eldest son Qianqiu and Huo Guangzi Huo Yu were both Zhonglang generals. They led their troops to attack Wuhuan with Fan Mingyou, the general of Liao Dynasty.
Also, he paid a visit to the general Huo Guang and asked Qianqiu about his battle strategy and the situation of the mountains and rivers. Qianqiu responded with the battle plan and drew a map on the ground without missing any omissions.
Huo Guang asked Huo Yu again, but Huo Yu couldn't remember it and said: "It's all recorded in documents."
From then on, Huo Guang believed that Qianqiu was talented and Huo Yu was incompetent. He sighed and said: The Huo family will decline, but the Zhang family will prosper!
After Huo Yu was executed, the descendants of An Shi rose up one after another. From Emperor Xuan to Emperor Yuan, more than ten people served as Shizhong, Zhongchangshi, Zhucao Sanqi, and Lieutenant.
In the age of meritorious officials, only the Jin family and the Zhang family were close and favored, comparable to their relatives.
Zhang Quzi resigned from the title of Marquis Zhongsi, practiced thrift and self-education, and learned to return to the old affairs of the fortress system.
Wang Mang did not lose his title during his reign, and he rose to the rank of Da Sikong in Jianwu. He changed the name of Zhimang's other township to Wuwanbao.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
张汤本居杜陵，安世武、昭、宣世辄随陵，凡三徙，复还杜陵。
赞曰：冯商称张汤之先与留侯同祖，而司马迁不言，故阙焉。
汉兴以来，侯者百数，保国持宠，未有若富平者也。
汤虽酷烈，及身蒙咎，其推贤扬善，固宜有后。
安世履道，满而不溢。
贺之阴德，亦有助云。
translation: 
Zhang Tang originally lived in Duling, and Anshi lived with him during the Wu, Zhao, and Xuan periods. He moved three times in total and returned to Duling.
Zan said: Feng Shang claimed that Zhang Tang's ancestor was the same ancestor as Liuhou, but Sima Qian did not record it, so it was omitted.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, there have been hundreds of marquises who have protected the country and maintained their favor. There is no one like Fupinghou.
Although Zhang Tang was cruel and cruel, when he was framed, he still recommended the wise men to praise his kindness, so he had prosperity in later generations.
Anshi abides by the right path, is humble and not arrogant.
Zhang He's moral character also helps.


