Chunk 0: 
original: 
淮阴侯韩信者，淮阴人也。
始为布衣时，贫，无行，不得推择为吏；又不能治生商贾。常从人寄食饮，人多厌之者。
常数从其下乡南昌亭长寄食，数月，亭长妻患之，乃晨炊蓐食。
食时信往，不为具食。
信亦知其意，怒，竟绝去。
信钓于城下，诸母漂，有一母见信饥，饭信，竟漂数十日。
信喜，谓漂母曰： 吾必有以重报母。
母怒曰： 大丈夫不能自食，吾哀王孙而进食，岂望报乎！
淮阴屠中少年有侮信者，曰： 若虽长大，好带刀剑，中情怯耳。
众辱之曰： 信能死，刺我；不能死，出我袴下。
於是信孰视之，俛出袴下，蒲伏。
一市人皆笑信，以为怯。
及项梁渡淮，信杖剑从之，居麾下，无所知名。
translation: 
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, was from Huaiyin.
When he was a commoner, he was poor, had no good character, could not be elected to be an official, and could not make a living by doing business. He often lived in other people's homes and had nothing to do, so most people hated him.
I went to the countryside many times to have a casual meal at the pavilion in Nanchang. For several months, the pavilion chief's wife was worried about Han Xin, so she made breakfast in advance and took it to the bed in the inner room to eat.
When it was time to eat, Han Xin went, but no food was prepared for him.
Han Xin also understood their intentions. In a rage, he actually left and never came back.
Han Xin was fishing under the city, and there were several old ladies rinsing the silk cotton. One of them saw that Han Xin was hungry, so she gave Han Xin food to eat. This continues for dozens of days until rinsing is complete.
Han Xin was very happy and said to the aunt: I will repay you heavily in the future.
The aunt said angrily: "A man can't support himself. I give you food out of pity for you, the young master. Do I hope you will repay me?"
A young man among the Huaiyin butchers insulted Han Xin and said: Although you are tall and like to carry a sword, you are actually a coward.
He insulted him in public and said: If you are not afraid of death, stab me with a sword; if you are afraid of death, crawl under my crotch.
So Han Xin looked at him carefully, lowered himself to the ground, and crawled under his crotch.
People all over the street laughed at Han Xin and thought he was timid.
When Xiang Liang led his army across the Huaihe River, Han Xin followed him with a sword, but he had no reputation among Xiang Liang's men.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
项梁败，又属项羽，羽以为郎中。
数以策干项羽，羽不用。
汉王之入蜀，信亡楚归汉，未得知名，为连敖。
坐法当斩，其辈十三人皆已斩，次至信，信乃仰视，适见滕公，曰： 上不欲就天下乎？
何为斩壮士！
滕公奇其言，壮其貌，释而不斩。
与语，大说之。言於上，上拜以为治粟都尉，上未之奇也。
信数与萧何语，何奇之。
至南郑，诸将行道亡者数十人。
信度何等已数言上，上不我用，即亡。
何闻信亡，不及以闻，自追之。
人有言上曰： 丞相何亡。
上大怒，如失左右手。
居一二日，何来谒上，上且怒且喜，骂何曰： 若亡，何也？
何曰： 臣不敢亡也，臣追亡者。
translation: 
Xiang Liang was defeated, and Han Xin was subordinated to Xiang Yu, who made him a doctor.
He repeatedly offered suggestions to Xiang Yu in order to be reused, but Xiang Yu did not adopt them.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, entered Shu, and Han Xin left the Chu army and submitted to the king of Han. Because he had no reputation, he only served as a minor official receiving guests.
Later, he was sentenced to beheading for breaking the law, and all thirteen people who were accomplices in the crime were killed. When it was Han Xin's turn, he looked up and happened to see Teng Gong and said: Doesn't the King of Han want to achieve the feat of unifying the world?
Why do you want to kill the strong man?
Teng Gong felt that his words were extraordinary and saw that he was handsome, so he let him go.
Talked with Han Xin, admired him very much, and reported the matter to the King of Han, who appointed Han Xin as the Commander-in-Chief of Su Su. But the king of Han did not see that he had any special talents.
Han Xin talked to Xiao He many times, and Xiao He thought he was a genius.
When they arrived at Nanzheng, dozens of generals from all walks of life fled on the way.
Han Xin speculated that Xiao He and others had recommended him to the King of Han many times, but the King of Han did not use him and ran away.
Xiao He heard that Han Xin had escaped and had no time to report to the King of Han, so he chased him personally.
Someone reported to the King of Han that: Prime Minister Xiao He has escaped.
The king of Han was furious because losing Xiao He was like losing his right and left hands.
A day or two later, Xiao He came to see the King of Han. The King of Han was both angry and happy. He scolded Xiao He and said: Why did you run away?
Xiao He said: I don't dare to run away, I will chase the escaping person.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
上曰： 若所追者谁？
何曰： 韩信也。
上复骂曰： 诸将亡者以十数，公无所追；追信，诈也。
何曰： 诸将易得耳。
至如信者，国士无双。
王必欲长王汉中，无所事信；必欲争天下，非信无所与计事者。
顾王策安所决耳。
王曰： 吾亦欲东耳，安能郁郁久居此乎？
何曰： 王计必欲东，能用信，信即留；不能用，信终亡耳。
王曰： 吾为公以为将。
何曰： 虽为将，信必不留。
王曰： 以为大将。
何曰： 幸甚。
於是王欲召信拜之。
何曰： 王素慢，无礼，今拜大将如呼小兒耳，此乃信所以去也。
王必欲拜之，择良日，斋戒，设坛场，具礼，乃可耳。
王许之。
诸将皆喜，人人各自以为得大将。
至拜大将，乃韩信也，一军皆惊。
信拜礼毕，上坐。
王曰： 丞相数言将军，将军何以教寡人计策？
translation: 
The king of Han said: Who are you chasing?
He replied: It’s Han Xin.
The King of Han cursed again: Dozens of generals from all walks of life have fled, but you did not chase anyone; but you chased Han Xin, which is a lie.
Xiao He said: Those generals are easy to get.
As for outstanding figures like Han Xin, there is no second person in the world.
If the king wants to be the king of Hanzhong for a long time, he will naturally not need Han Xin. If he wants to fight for the world, there will be no one except Han Xin who can discuss important matters with you.
But it depends on what the king decides.
The King of Han said: I also want to develop eastward, how can I stay here for a long time with my heart depressed?
Xiao He said: The king is determined to develop eastward. If Han Xin can be reused, Han Xin will stay. If he cannot be reused, Han Xin will eventually run away.
The King of Han said: For your sake, let him be a general.
Xiao He said: Even if he becomes a general, Han Xin will definitely not stay.
The king of Han said: Appoint him as a general.
Xiao He said: Great.
So the King of Han summoned Han Xin to appoint him.
Xiao He said: The king has always been arrogant and disrespectful to others. Now appointing a general is like calling a child. This is the reason why Han Xin is leaving.
The king is determined to appoint him. He must choose a good and auspicious day, fast in person, set up an altar and square, and complete the etiquette.
The king of Han agreed to Xiao He's request.
All the generals were very happy when they heard that they were going to become generals. Everyone thought they were going to be generals.
When the general was appointed, it was Han Xin who was appointed, and the whole army was surprised.
After the ceremony of appointing Han Xin, the King of Han took his seat.
The king of Han said: The prime minister has praised the general many times. What strategies does the general use to teach me?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
信谢，因问王曰： 今东乡争权天下，岂非项王邪？ 汉王曰： 然。
曰： 大王自料勇悍仁彊孰与项王？
汉王默然良久，曰： 不如也。
信再拜贺曰： 惟信亦为大王不如也。
然臣尝事之，请言项王之为人也。
项王喑噁叱咤，千人皆废，然不能任属贤将，此特匹夫之勇耳。
项王见人，恭敬慈爱，言语呕呕，人有疾病，涕泣分食饮；至使人有功当封爵者，印刓敝，忍不能予。此所谓妇人之仁也。
项王虽霸天下而臣诸侯，不居关中而都彭城。
有背义帝之约而以亲爱王，诸侯不平。
诸侯之见项王迁逐义帝，置江南，亦皆归逐其主而自王善地。
项王所过，无不残灭者，天下多怨，百姓不亲附，特劫於威，彊耳。
名虽为霸，实失天下心。
故曰其彊易弱。
今大王诚能反其道：任天下武勇，何所不诛！
以天下城邑封功臣，何所不服！
translation: 
Han Xinqian gave in and took advantage of the situation to ask the King of Han: "Now that we are fighting for the world in the east, isn't the enemy King Xiang?" The king of Han said: Yes.
Han Xin said: The king himself estimates that compared with King Xiang in terms of bravery, strength, kindness, and military strength, who is better?
The king of Han was silent for a long time and said: "I am not as good as King Xiang."
Han Xin bowed twice and said in agreement: "I also think your Majesty is not as good as him."
However, I have served him before. Please let me tell you about King Xiang's character.
When King Xiang roared in anger, thousands of people were so frightened that they did not dare to move, but he could not let go and use talented generals. This was just the bravery of an ordinary man.
King Xiang was respectful and kind to others, and his words were gentle. When someone was sick, he would feel distressed and shed tears, and would share his food and drink with him. When someone had made military exploits and was about to be ennobled, he would put the engraved seal in his hand and play with it until it lost its edge and was reluctant to give it to him. This is what is called the kindness of a woman.
Even though King Xiang dominated the world and made the princes surrender, he gave up the favorable terrain in Guanzhong and built his capital in Pengcheng.
He also violated the agreement of the Righteous Emperor and made his close followers kings. The princes were indignant.
When the princes saw that King Xiang had moved Emperor Yi to a remote place in the south of the Yangtze River, they all went back and expelled their own kings, occupied good places and made themselves kings.
Every place King Xiang's army passed through was devastated and destroyed. Most of the people in the world were resentful. The common people were unwilling to surrender, but they were forced to obey by force.
Although he was the hegemon in name, he actually lost the support of the people in the world.
Therefore, his advantages can easily be turned into disadvantages.
Now the king can really do the opposite: appointing the brave and capable talents in the world, what can't be punished?
If all the cities in the world are given to meritorious ministers, who wouldn't be convinced?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
以义兵从思东归之士，何所不散！
且三秦王为秦将，将秦子弟数岁矣，所杀亡不可胜计，又欺其众降诸侯。
至新安，项王诈阬秦降卒二十余万，唯独邯、欣、翳得脱，秦父兄怨此三人，痛入骨髓。
今楚彊以威王此三人，秦民莫爱也。
大王之入武关，秋豪无所害，除秦苛法，与秦民约，法三章耳。秦民无不欲得大王王秦者。
於诸侯之约，大王当王关中，关中民咸知之。大王失职入汉中，秦民无不恨者。
今大王举而东，三秦可传檄而定也。
於是汉王大喜，自以为得信晚。
遂听信计，部署诸将所击。
八月，汉王举兵东出陈仓，定三秦。
汉二年，出关，收魏、河南，韩、殷王皆降。
合齐赵共击楚。
translation: 
As a righteous teacher, obeying the soldiers' wish to return eastward, what kind of enemy cannot be defeated?
Moreover, the three kings that Xiang Yu enfeoffed were all generals of the Qin Dynasty. They led the children of Qin to fight for several years, and many of them were killed and escaped. They also deceived their subordinates to surrender to the princes.
Upon arriving at Xin'an, King Xiang cunningly buried alive more than 200,000 Qin troops who had surrendered. Only Zhang Han, Sima Xin, and Dong Yi survived. The fathers and brothers of Qin hated these three men to their bones.
Now, relying on his power, Xiang Yu forcibly made these three kings, and no one in Qin loved them.
When the king entered Wuguan, Qiu did not commit any crime. He abolished the harsh laws of the Qin Dynasty and made a three-part agreement with the people of Qin. All the people of Qin did not want the king to be king in Qin.
According to the agreement made by the princes, the king should be the king in Guanzhong. The people in Guanzhong all know this. The king lost the title he deserved and entered Hanzhong. The people of Qin all regretted it.
Now that the king has mobilized his army to advance eastward, the Sanqin fiefdom can be pacified with just one document.
So the King of Han was very happy, thinking that it was too late to get Han Xin.
Just follow Han Xin's plan and deploy various generals to attack targets.
In August, the King of Han sent troops to advance eastward through Chencang and pacified the Three Qin Dynasties.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, troops went out of Hangu Pass and subdued the king of Wei and the king of Henan. The king of Han and Yin also surrendered one after another.
The king of Han then joined forces with the king of Qi and the king of Zhao to attack the Chu army.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四月，至彭城，汉兵败散而还。
信复收兵与汉王会荥阳，复击破楚京、索之间，以故，楚兵卒不能西。
汉之败卻彭城，塞王欣、翟王翳亡汉降楚，齐、赵亦反汉与楚和。
六月，魏王豹谒归视亲疾，至国，即绝河关反汉，与楚约和。
汉王使郦生说豹，不下。
其八月，以信为左丞相，击魏。
魏王盛兵蒲坂，塞临晋，信乃益为疑兵，陈船欲度临晋，而伏兵从夏阳以木罂缻渡军，袭安邑。
魏王豹惊，引兵迎信，信遂虏豹，定魏为河东郡。
汉王遣张耳与信俱，引兵东，北击赵、代。
後九月，破代兵，禽夏说阏与。
信之下魏破代，汉辄使人收其精兵，诣荥阳以距楚。
信与张耳以兵数万，欲东下井陉击赵。
赵王、成安君陈馀闻汉且袭之也，聚兵井陉口，号称二十万。
广武君李左车说成安君曰： 闻汉将韩信涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说，新喋血阏与，今乃辅以张耳，议欲下赵，此乘胜而去国远斗，其锋不可当。
translation: 
In April, when they arrived at Pengcheng, the Han army was defeated and returned in disarray.
Han Xin gathered the scattered troops and met the King of Han in Xingyang, and defeated the Chu army between Jingxian and Suoting. Therefore, the Chu army was never able to advance westward.
After the Han army was defeated in Pengcheng, King Sima Xin of Sai and King Dong Yi of Zhai rebelled against Han and surrendered to Chu. Qi and Zhao also rebelled against Han and reconciled with Chu.
In June, King Bao of Wei asked for leave to return to his hometown on the pretext of visiting his mother's illness. As soon as he arrived in the feudal state, he immediately cut off the main transportation road at Linjin Pass at the Yellow River ferry, rebelled against the king of Han, and made peace with the Chu army.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to lobby Wei Bao, but failed.
In August of this year, the King of Han appointed Han Xin as Prime Minister Zuo to attack King Bao of Wei.
The king of Wei stationed the main force in Puban and blocked Linjin Pass, the Yellow River ferry. Han Xin added more suspects and deliberately arranged warships to pretend to cross the river at Linjin. However, the hidden troops used wooden basins to float across the river from Xia Yang and attacked Anyi.
King Bao of Wei panicked and led his army to attack Han Xin. Han Xin captured Wei Bao, pacified Wei and reorganized it into Hedong County.
The King of Han sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to lead the troops eastward and attack Zhao and Dai in the north.
In the leap month of this year, the army of Dai was defeated. Zaiyu said that he had captured Xia alive.
After Han Xin conquered Wei and destroyed Dai, the King of Han immediately sent people to transfer Han Xin's elite troops to Xingyang to resist the Chu army.
Han Xin and Zhang Er led tens of thousands of troops to break through Jingxing Pass and attack Zhao.
When King Xie of Zhao and Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, heard that the Han army was about to attack Zhao, they gathered troops at Jingxingkou, claiming to be an army of 200,000.
Li Zuoche, Lord of Guangwu, proposed a plan to Lord Cheng'an: I heard that the Han general Han Xin crossed the Xihe River, captured Wei Bao, and captured Xia alive. He said that he had recently been bloodbathed, and now he was assisted by Zhang Er, and planned to seize Zhao. This was an expedition to leave the country in the spirit of victory, its edge unstoppable.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
臣闻 千里餽粮，士有饥色，樵苏後爨，师不宿饱 。
今井陉之道，车不得方轨，骑不得成列，行数百里，其势粮食必在其後。愿足下假臣奇兵三万人，从间道绝其辎重；足下深沟高垒，坚营勿与战。
彼前不得斗，退不得还，吾奇兵绝其後，使野无所掠，不至十日，而两将之头可致於戏下。
愿君留意臣之计。
否，必为二子所禽矣。
成安君，儒者也，常称 义兵不用诈谋奇计 ，曰： 吾闻兵法 十则围之，倍则战 ，今韩信兵号数万，其实不过数千，能千里而袭我，亦已罢极。
今如此避而不击，後有大者，何以加之！
则诸侯谓吾怯，而轻来伐我。
不听广武君策。
translation: 
However, I heard that when food and wages are transported thousands of miles, the soldiers will look hungry. If they cut firewood and grass for cooking, the army will not always have enough to eat.
At present, on the Jingxing road, chariots cannot march side by side, and war horses cannot line up. The marching army is hundreds of miles away, and the food transport team is bound to lag far behind. I hope that you will temporarily allocate 30,000 troops to me to intercept their food and grass from hidden paths. You will dig deep trenches, build high forts, hold on to the barracks, and do not engage in battle with them.
They could not fight forward or retreat backward. I sent out surprise troops to cut off their retreat, so that they could not plunder anything in the wilderness. In less than ten days, the heads of Han Xin and Zhang Er could be delivered to the general's tent.
I hope you will consider my plan carefully.
Otherwise, he will definitely be captured by the two of them.
Cheng'anjun was a rigid scholar who believed in Confucianism. He often claimed that a righteous army did not need deceit and trickery. He said: I heard in military books that if you have ten times the enemy's force, you can surround it, and if you have twice the enemy's force, you can engage it. Now Han Xin's army is said to be tens of thousands, but in fact it is only a few thousand. He has traveled thousands of miles to attack us, and he is already extremely exhausted.
Now that we can't avoid attacking like this, how can we deal with the arrival of powerful follow-up troops?
The princes will think that I am coward and will attack us easily.
Don't adopt Lord Guangwu's strategy.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
广武君策不用。韩信使人间视，知其不用，还报，则大喜，乃敢引兵遂下。
未至井陉口三十里，止舍。
夜半传发。选轻骑二千人，人持一赤帜，从间道萆山而望赵军，诫曰： 赵见我走，必空壁逐我，若疾入赵壁，拔赵帜，立汉赤帜。
令其裨将传食，曰： 今日破赵会食！
诸将皆莫信，详应曰： 诺。
谓军吏曰： 赵已先据便地为壁，且彼未见吾大将旗鼓，未肯击前行，恐吾至阻险而还。
信乃使万人先行，出，背水陈。
赵军望见而大笑。
平旦，信建大将之旗鼓，鼓行出井陉口，赵开壁击之，大战良久。
於是信、张耳详弃鼓旗，走水上军。
translation: 
Han Xin sent people to secretly investigate and learned that Lord Guangwu's strategy had not been adopted. The detective came back and reported. Han Xin was overjoyed and dared to lead his troops into the narrow road of Jingxing.
We were still thirty miles away from Jingxingkou, so we stopped and camped.
In the middle of the night, he sent an order to set off. He selected two thousand light cavalry, each holding a red flag, and went up the mountain from a hidden path. They hid on the mountain to observe Zhao's army. Han Xin warned: During the battle, when the Zhao army sees that our army is defeated and flees, they will definitely mobilize to chase our army. You rush into the Zhao army's camp, pull out the Zhao army's flag, and erect the Han army's flag.
Then he asked the deputy general to convey the order to start the meal. Said: We will have dinner after we defeat Zhao Jun today.
The generals didn't believe it and replied falsely: "Okay."
Han Xin said to his officers: Zhao Jun has occupied favorable terrain and built a camp. If they can't see our general's flag and honor guard, they will not come out to attack our vanguard, for fear that we will retreat when we reach a dangerous place.
Han Xin sent out ten thousand people as the vanguard, walked out of Jingxingkou, and formed a battle formation with the river behind him.
Zhao Jun saw it from a distance and laughed.
At dawn, Han Xin set up the general's flag and guard of honor and drove out of Jingxingkou with great fanfare. The Zhao army opened their camp and attacked the Han army. The two armies fought for a long time.
At this time, Han Xin and Zhang Er pretended to abandon their flags and drums and fled back to their positions by the river.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
水上军开入之，复疾战。
赵果空壁争汉鼓旗，逐韩信、张耳。
韩信、张耳已入水上军，军皆殊死战，不可败。
信所出奇兵二千骑，共候赵空壁逐利，则驰入赵壁，皆拔赵旗，立汉赤帜二千。
赵军已不胜，不能得信等，欲还归壁，壁皆汉赤帜，而大惊，以为汉皆已得赵王将矣。兵遂乱，遁走，赵将虽斩之，不能禁也。
於是汉兵夹击，大破虏赵军，斩成安君泜水上，禽赵王歇。
信乃令军中毋杀广武君，有能生得者购千金。
於是有缚广武君而致戏下者，信乃解其缚，东乡坐，西乡对，师事之。
诸将效首虏，休，毕贺，因问信曰： 兵法右倍山陵，前左水泽，今者将军令臣等反背水陈，曰破赵会食，臣等不服。然竟以胜，此何术也？
信曰： 此在兵法，顾诸君不察耳。
translation: 
The troops in the riverside position opened the camp gate and let them in. Then there was a fierce battle with Zhao Jun.
As expected, the Zhao army mobilized in full force to compete for the banner and drums of the Han army, chasing Han Xin and Zhang Er.
Han Xin and Er Xin have entered the riverside position. The whole army fought desperately, but Zhao Jun could not defeat them.
The 2,000 light cavalry sent by Han Xin in advance, when the Zhao army went out to chase the loot, rushed into the empty camp of the Zhao army, pulled down all the Zhao army's flags, and erected the 2,000 red flags of the Han army.
At this time, the Zhao army could no longer win and could not capture Han Xin and others. They wanted to retreat to the camp. The camp was filled with red flags of the Han army. They were shocked and thought that the Han army had captured all the generals of King Zhao. The army was in chaos and fled one after another. The Zhao generals could not stop them even if they killed the deserters.
So the Han soldiers attacked from both sides, completely destroyed the Zhao army, captured a large number of troops, and captured Zhao Wangxie alive on the bank of the Sishui River.
Han Xin sent an order to the entire army not to kill Lord Guangwu. Anyone who could capture him alive would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins.
So someone tied up Guangwu Jun and sent him to the military camp. Han Xin personally untied him and asked him to sit facing east while he sat facing west, treating him like a teacher.
The generals presented their heads and prisoners, congratulated Han Xin, and took the opportunity to say to Han Xin: The Art of War says: The marching formation should have mountains on the right and behind, and water on the front and left. This time, the general ordered us to form a formation with our backs against the enemy, saying that he had defeated the Zhao army. We were not convinced, but we actually won the victory. What kind of tactic was this?
Han Xin replied: This is also in the art of war, but you didn't pay attention.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
兵法不曰 陷之死地而後生，置之亡地而後存 ？
且信非得素拊循士大夫也，此所谓 驱市人而战之 ，其势非置之死地，使人人自为战；今予之生地，皆走，宁尚可得而用之乎！
诸将皆服曰： 善。
非臣所及也。
於是信问广武君曰： 仆欲北攻燕，东伐齐，何若而有功？
广武君辞谢曰： 臣闻败军之将，不可以言勇，亡国之大夫，不可以图存。
今臣败亡之虏，何足以权大事乎！
信曰： 仆闻之，百里奚居虞而虞亡，在秦而秦霸，非愚於虞而智於秦也，用与不用，听与不听也。
诚令成安君听足下计，若信者亦已为禽矣。
以不用足下，故信得侍耳。
因固问曰： 仆委心归计，原足下勿辞。
广武君曰： 臣闻智者千虑，必有一失；愚者千虑，必有一得。
故曰 狂夫之言，圣人择焉 。
顾恐臣计未必足用，原效愚忠。
translation: 
Isn’t it said in the art of war that you should be trapped in a place of death and then survive, and that you should be trapped in a place of death and then survive?
Besides, I have never had the opportunity to train the soldiers. This is what is called driving the people in the streets to fight. In this situation, if the soldiers are not put to death, everyone must fight to save themselves. If they are left with a way to survive, they all run away, how can we still use them to win?
The generals all said with admiration: "Okay."
The general's strategy is beyond our reach.
So Han Xin asked Lord Guangwu: "I want to attack Yan State in the north and Qi State in the east. How can I succeed?"
Lord Guangwu declined and said: I heard that a general who has lost a battle is not qualified to talk about bravery, and a doctor who has lost his country is not qualified to plan the survival of the country.
Now I am a prisoner who has been defeated and my country has perished. What qualifications do I have to discuss important matters?
Han Xin said: I heard that Baili Xi was in Yu State and Yu State perished, but in Qin State, Qin State was able to dominate. This is not because he was stupid in Yu State but became smart in Qin State, but because the king appointed him or not, and adopted his opinions or not.
If Cheng Anjun had really adopted your strategy, Han Xin and I would have been captured alive.
Because I didn't adopt your plan, I can serve you.
Han Xin resolutely asked for advice and said: I wholeheartedly follow your plan and I hope you will not refuse.
Lord Guangwu said: I have heard that if a wise man thinks a lot, he will lose something; if a fool thinks a lot, he will gain something.
So as the saying goes: A madman can also choose a saint.
I am afraid that my strategy is not enough to adopt, but I am willing to offer my foolishness and serve you faithfully.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
夫成安君有百战百胜之计，一旦而失之，军败鄗下，身死泜上。
今将军涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说阏与，一举而下井陉，不终朝破赵二十万众，诛成安君。
名闻海内，威震天下，农夫莫不辍耕释耒，褕衣甘食，倾耳以待命者。
若此，将军之所长也。
然而众劳卒罢，其实难用。
今将军欲举倦弊之兵，顿之燕坚城之下，欲战恐久力不能拔，情见势屈，旷日粮竭，而弱燕不服，齐必距境以自彊也。
燕齐相持而不下，则刘项之权未有所分也。
若此者，将军所短也。
臣愚，窃以为亦过矣。
故善用兵者不以短击长，而以长击短。
韩信曰： 然则何由？
广武君对曰： 方今为将军计，莫如案甲休兵，镇赵抚其孤，百里之内，牛酒日至，以飨士大夫醳兵，北首燕路，而後遣辩士奉咫尺之书，暴其所长於燕，燕必不敢不听从。燕已从，使諠言者东告齐，齐必从风而服，虽有智者，亦不知为齐计矣。如是，则天下事皆可图也。
兵固有先声而後实者，此之谓也。
translation: 
Cheng'anjun originally had a plan to win every battle, but once he lost it, his army was defeated under Hacheng and he died on the river.
Now the general crossed the Xihe River, captured the king of Wei, and captured Xia Shuo alive in Yanyu. He conquered Jingxing in one fell swoop, defeated the Zhao army of 200,000 in less than one morning, and killed Lord Cheng'an.
The fame spread all over the world, and the prestige shocked the world. The farmers had a premonition of the imminent military disaster, so they put down their farm tools, stopped farming, dressed well, ate well, passed the time, listened intently to the news of the war, and waited for death to come.
These are the general's strategic strengths.
However, at present, the people are working hard and the soldiers are tired, making it difficult to fight.
If the general mobilized his exhausted army and stayed under the strong city of Yan State, the battle would probably take too long and the force would not be enough to conquer it. If the truth is exposed, the power will weaken, it will last for a long time, the food will be exhausted, and the weak Yan State refuses to surrender, Qi State will definitely refuse to defend the border in order to strengthen itself.
If Yan and Qi refused to surrender, the outcome of Liu Xiang's victory could not be determined.
Like this, it is the general's strategic shortcoming.
My knowledge is shallow, but I privately think that attacking Yan and Qi is a mistake.
Therefore, those who are good at leading troops in war do not use their own shortcomings to attack the enemy's strengths, but use their own strengths to attack the enemy's shortcomings.
Han Xin said: Even so, what should we do?
Even if there are smart and wise people, they don’t know how to plan for Qi.
If this is the case, then the great things of conquering the world can be achieved. When using troops, it is natural to bluff first and then take actual action. This is the situation I am talking about.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
韩信曰： 善。
从其策，发使使燕，燕从风而靡。
乃遣使报汉，因请立张耳为赵王，以镇抚其国。
汉王许之，乃立张耳为赵王。
楚数使奇兵渡河击赵，赵王耳、韩信往来救赵，因行定赵城邑，发兵诣汉。
楚方急围汉王於荥阳，汉王南出，之宛、叶间，得黥布，走入成皋，楚又复急围之。
六月，汉王出成皋，东渡河，独与滕公俱，从张耳军脩武。
至，宿传舍。
晨自称汉使，驰入赵壁。
张耳、韩信未起，即其卧内上夺其印符，以麾召诸将，易置之。
信、耳起，乃知汉王来，大惊。
汉王夺两人军，即令张耳备守赵地。拜韩信为相国，收赵兵未发者击齐。
信引兵东，未渡平原，闻汉王使郦食其已说下齐，韩信欲止。
范阳辩士蒯通说信曰： 将军受诏击齐，而汉独发间使下齐，宁有诏止将军乎？
何以得毋行也！
translation: 
Han Xin said: OK.
followed his plan. An envoy was sent to the State of Yan, and the State of Yan surrendered immediately after hearing the news.
So he sent someone to report to the King of Han and requested that Zhang Er be appointed King of Zhao to pacify the State of Zhao.
The king of Han agreed to his request and made Zhang Er the king of Zhao.
The State of Chu sent strange troops across the Yellow River to attack the State of Zhao many times. Zhang Er and Han Xin of the State of Zhao went back and forth to rescue the State of Zhao. During the march, they pacified the cities of the State of Zhao and then mobilized troops to support the King of Han.
The Chu army was tightly besieging the King of Han in Xingyang. The King of Han broke out from the south, went to Wanxian and Yexian areas, accepted Yingbu, and rushed into Chenggao. The Chu army hurriedly surrounded Chenggao.
In the sixth month, the king of Han escaped from Chenggao and crossed the Yellow River eastward. Only Teng Gong accompanied him, and went to Zhang'er's army stationed in Xiuwu.
As soon as you arrive, you will live in a shelter.
The next morning, he claimed to be the envoy of the King of Han and rode into the Zhao army's camp.
Before Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, the King of Han seized their seals and military symbols in their bedrooms, summoned the generals with military flags, and changed their positions.
After Han Xin and Zhang Er got up, they found out that the King of Han was coming and were shocked.
The King of Han seized the troops commanded by the two of them, ordered Zhang Er to defend Zhao's territory, appointed Han Xin as the prime minister, and asked him to collect the troops that Zhao had not sent to Xingyang to attack Qi.
Han Xin led his troops to the east. Before they crossed Pingyuanjin, they heard that the King of Han sent Li Shiqi to persuade the King of Qi to submit.
Han Xin planned to stop his advance. Fan Yang's lobbyist Kuai Tong advised Han Xin: The general was ordered to attack Qi, and the king of Han only secretly sent a secret envoy to persuade Qi to surrender. Is there an order to stop the general's attack?
Why not march?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
且郦生一士，伏轼掉三寸之舌，下齐七十馀城，将军将数万众，岁馀乃下赵五十馀，为将数岁，反不如一竖儒之功乎？
於是信然之，从其计，遂渡河。
齐已听郦生，即留纵酒，罢备汉守御信因袭齐历下军，遂至临菑。
齐王田广以郦生卖己，乃烹之，而走高密，使使之楚请救。
韩信已定临菑，遂东追广至高密西。
楚亦使龙且将，号称二十万，救齐。
齐王广、龙且并军与信战，未合。人或说龙且曰： 汉兵远斗穷战，其锋不可当。
齐、楚自居其地战，兵易败散。
不如深壁，令齐王使其信臣招所亡城，亡城闻其王在，楚来救，必反汉。
汉兵二千里客居，齐城皆反之，其势无所得食，可无战而降也。
translation: 
Moreover, Li Sheng was just a scholar. Sitting in a carriage and using his tongue, he conquered more than 70 cities in Qi. The general led an army of tens of thousands, and it took more than a year to conquer more than fifty cities in Zhao. After many years of service, is it not as good as the contribution of a young scholar?
Han Xin thought he was right, followed his strategy, and led his army across the Yellow River.
After the King of Qi listened to Li Sheng's advice, he persuaded Li Sheng to have a good time and drink, and removed the facilities to guard against the Han army. Han Xin took the opportunity to raid Qi's troops and soon reached the capital Linyi.
King Tian Guang of Qi thought he had been betrayed by Li Sheng, so he cooked and killed him, fled to Gaomi, and sent envoys to Chu to ask for help.
After Han Xin pacified Linyi, he pursued Tian Guang eastward to the west of Gaomi City.
Chu State also sent Long Qie to lead an army of 200,000 troops to rescue Qi State.
Qi King Tian Guang and Sima Longqie joined forces to fight Han Xin. Before the battle, someone advised Long Qie: The Han army is far away from the country and fights to the death. Its sharp edge is unstoppable.
The Qi and Chu armies fought on their own land, and the soldiers easily escaped.
It is better to have a deep trench and a high base, unable to hold on. Let the King of Qi send his trusted ministers to pacify the cities that have fallen. If the officials and people of these cities know that their king is still there and the Chu army comes to rescue them, they will definitely rebel against the Han army.
The Han army lives two thousand miles away, and the people in Qi's cities and towns rise up to rebel against them. They will inevitably lose food, which will force them to surrender without a fight.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
龙且曰： 吾平生知韩信为人，易与耳。
且夫救齐不战而降之，吾何功？
今战而胜之，齐之半可得，何为止！
遂战，与信夹濰水陈。
韩信乃夜令人为万馀囊，满盛沙，壅水上流，引军半渡，击龙且，详不胜，还走。
龙且果喜曰： 固知信怯也。
遂追信渡水。
信使人决壅囊，水大至。龙且军大半不得渡，即急击，杀龙且。
龙且水东军散走，齐王广亡去。
信遂追北至城阳，皆虏楚卒。
汉四年，遂皆降。平齐。
使人言汉王曰： 齐伪诈多变，反覆之国也，南边楚，不为假王以镇之，其势不定。
原为假王便。
translation: 
Long Qie said: I have always understood Han Xin's character and it is easy to deal with him.
Moreover, I rescued Qi and made Han Xin surrender without a fight. What credit do I have for that?
Now that I have defeated him, half of Qi's land can be entrusted to me. Why not fight?
So he decided to start a war and set up a battle array with Han Xin across the Weishui River.
Han Xin ordered more than 10,000 bags to be made overnight, filled with sand and soil, blocked the upper reaches of the Weishui River, led half of the army across the river, attacked Long Qie, pretended to be defeated, and ran back.
Long Qie said happily: "I have known that Han Xin is timid."
So he crossed the Weishui River to pursue Han Xin.
Han Xin ordered the sandbags blocking the Weishui River to be excavated. The river surged forward, and more than half of Long Qie's army had not yet crossed the river. Han Xin immediately returned to the army and counterattacked fiercely, killing Long Qie.
Long Qie's troops on the east bank of the Weishui River that had not yet crossed the river scattered and fled. King Tian Guang of Qi also fled.
Han Xin pursued the defeated troops as far as Chengyang and captured all the Chu soldiers.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin surrendered and pacified the entire Qi State.
He sent someone to write to the King of Han, saying: Qi is cunning and capricious, and its southern border borders Chu. If a temporary acting king is not set up to pacify it, the situation will not be stable.
In order to facilitate the current situation, I hope that I will be allowed to temporarily act as King Qi.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
当是时，楚方急围汉王於荥阳，韩信使者至，发书，汉王大怒，骂曰： 吾困於此，旦暮望若来佐我，乃欲自立为王！
张良、陈平蹑汉王足，因附耳语曰： 汉方不利，宁能禁信之王乎？
不如因而立，善遇之，使自为守。
不然，变生。
汉王亦悟，因复骂曰： 大丈夫定诸侯，即为真王耳，何以假为！
乃遣张良往立信为齐王，徵其兵击楚。
楚已亡龙且，项王恐，使盱眙人武涉往说齐王信曰： 天下共苦秦久矣，相与戮力击秦。
秦已破，计功割地，分土而王之，以休士卒。
今汉王复兴兵而东，侵人之分，夺人之地，已破三秦，引兵出关，收诸侯之兵以东击楚，其意非尽吞天下者不休，其不知厌足如是甚也。
且汉王不可必，身居项王掌握中数矣，项王怜而活之，然得脱，辄倍约，复击项王，其不可亲信如此。
translation: 
At this time, the Chu army was tightly besieging the King of Han in Xingyang. Han Xin's envoy arrived. The King of Han opened the letter and read it. He became furious and cursed: I am besieged here and I am waiting for you to help me day and night, but you want to make yourself king!
Zhang Liang and Chen Ping secretly stepped on the King of Han's feet, leaned into the King of Han's ear and said: "The Han army is currently in a disadvantageous situation. How can we prevent Han Xin from becoming king?"
It is better to take the opportunity to make him king, treat him well, and let him guard Qi by himself.
Otherwise, an accident may occur.
The King of Han woke up and deliberately cursed again: Since a man has conquered the feudal lords, he must be the real king. Why should he be a temporary acting king?
He sent Zhang Liang to appoint Han Xin as King of Qi and mobilized his army to attack the Chu army.
After the Chu army lost Long Qi, King Xiang was frightened and sent Wu She from Xuyi to persuade King Han Xin of Qi, saying: "The people of the world have suffered from Qin's tyranny for a long time, so we all work together to attack it."
After the collapse of the Qin Dynasty, the land was divided according to merit, and each became a king in order to stop the war.
Now the King of Han is marching east again, invading other people's realms and plundering other people's fiefdoms. He has broken through the Three Qin Dynasties, led his army out of Hangu Pass, gathered the armies of various princes, and marched eastward to attack Chu State. His intention is not to stop until he annexes the entire world. He is too greedy to go so far.
Moreover, the King of Han could not be trusted. He had fallen into King Xiang's hands many times. It was King Xiang's mercy that allowed him to survive. However, once he escaped, he broke his alliance and attacked King Xiang again. He was so unapproachable and untrustworthy.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今足下虽自以与汉王为厚交，为之尽力用兵，终为之所禽矣。
足下所以得须臾至今者，以项王尚存也。
当今二王之事，权在足下。
足下右投则汉王胜，左投则项王胜。
项王今日亡，则次取足下。
足下与项王有故，何不反汉与楚连和，参分天下王之？
今释此时，而自必於汉以击楚，且为智者固若此乎！
韩信谢曰： 臣事项王，官不过郎中，位不过执戟，言不听，画不用，故倍楚而归汉。
汉王授我上将军印，予我数万众，解衣衣我，推食食我，言听计用，故吾得以至於此。
夫人深亲信我，我倍之不祥，虽死不易。
幸为信谢项王！
武涉已去，齐人蒯通知天下权在韩信，欲为奇策而感动之，以相人说韩信曰： 仆尝受相人之术。
韩信曰： 先生相人何如？
translation: 
Now, even if you think you have a deep friendship with the King of Han and fight for him with all your strength, you will still be captured by him in the end.
The reason why you can continue to this day is because King Xiang still exists.
At present, the victory or defeat of Liu and Xiang's battle for the world is yours.
If you stand to the right, then King Han wins; if you stand to the left, then King Xiang wins.
If King Xiang is eliminated today, you will be eliminated next.
You have an old friendship with King Xiang. Why don't you rebel against Han and unite with Chu, divide the world into three parts, and make yourself king?
Now, if we let this opportunity go, we will inevitably side with the King of Han and attack King Xiang. Should a smart and wise man do this?
Han Xin declined and said: "I serve King Xiang, but my official position is no more than a doctor, and my position is just that of a guard holding a halberd. I don't listen to his words, and I don't use his plans, so I carry the Chu State and return to the Han Dynasty."
The King of Han granted me the title of general, gave me tens of thousands of horses, took off his clothes for me to wear, gave me good food to eat, and listened to his words, so I can be where I am today.
If someone is close to me and trusts me, it would be unlucky for me to betray him, even if I die, I will not change my mind.
I hope you can express my gratitude to King Xiang for his kindness!
After Wu She left, Kuai Tong, a native of Qi, knew that the key to victory in the world lay in Han Xin. He came up with a strange plan to impress him, and used his capacity as a fortune teller to persuade Han Xin, saying: I once learned the art of fortune telling.
Han Xin said: "What method does Sir use to read people's faces?"


Chunk 16: 
original: 
对曰： 贵贱在於骨法，忧喜在於容色，成败在於决断，以此参之，万不失一。
韩信曰： 善。先生相寡人何如？
对曰： 原少间。
信曰： 左右去矣。
通曰： 相君之面，不过封侯，又危不安。
相君之背，贵乃不可言。
韩信曰： 何谓也？
蒯通曰： 天下初发难也，俊雄豪桀建号壹呼，天下之士云合雾集，鱼鳞櫜鹓，熛至风起。
当此之时，忧在亡秦而已。
今楚汉分争，使天下无罪之人肝胆涂地，父子暴骸骨於中野，不可胜数。
楚人起彭城，转斗逐北，至於荥阳，乘利席卷，威震天下。
然兵困於京、索之间，迫西山而不能进者，三年於此矣。
汉王将数十万之众，距巩、雒，阻山河之险，一日数战，无尺寸之功，折北不救，败荥阳，伤成皋，遂走宛、叶之间，此所谓智勇俱困者也。
夫锐气挫於险塞，而粮食竭於内府，百姓罢极怨望，容容无所倚。
translation: 
Kuai Tong replied: The nobility and humiliation of a person lie in the bones, sorrow and joy lie in the complexion, success and failure lie in the decision-making. Use these three items to verify that your appearance is foolproof.
Han Xin said: OK, sir, what do you think of my face?
Kuai Tong replied: I hope the entourage will stay away for the time being.
Han Xin said: People around you should leave.
Kuai Tong said: Judging from your appearance, you are just a prince, and you are also dangerous and unsafe.
Looking at your back, you look noble but indescribable.
Han Xin said: What does this mean?
Kuai Tong said: At the beginning, when the world was raising troops to revolt, heroes and heroes established their names one after another. With a shout, people with lofty ideals in the world gathered like clouds and mist, mixed like fish scales, like flames flying, and strong winds rising.
At this time, all they cared about was the destruction of the Qin Dynasty.
Now, the dispute between Chu and Han has made innocent people all over the world terrified, and the bones of father and son are exposed in the wilderness, countless of them.
The Chu people rose up in Pengcheng and fought in all directions, chasing the defeated troops as far as Xingyang. Taking advantage of their victory, they advanced like rolled mats, and their momentum shocked the world.
Then the army was trapped between Jing and Suo, blocked in the mountainous area west of Chenggao, and could no longer advance. It has been three years.
The King of Han led hundreds of thousands of troops to resist the Chu army in Gongxian and Luoyang. Relying on the dangerous mountains and rivers, although they fought several battles in a day, they were unable to achieve much success. As a result, they suffered setbacks and failed, and could hardly save themselves. He was defeated in Xingyang and wounded in Chenggao, so he fled to Wan and Ye counties. This is what is said to be exhausted of wisdom and courage.
The morale of the soldiers was dampened by being trapped in dangerous fortresses for a long time, the food in the warehouses was exhausted, the people were tired and miserable, complained, the hearts of the people were turbulent, and they were helpless.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
以臣料之，其势非天下之贤圣固不能息天下之祸。
当今两主之命县於足下。
足下为汉则汉胜，与楚则楚胜。
臣原披腹心，输肝胆，效愚计，恐足下不能用也。
诚能听臣之计，莫若两利而俱存之，参分天下，鼎足而居，其势莫敢先动。
夫以足下之贤圣，有甲兵之众，据彊齐，从燕、赵，出空虚之地而制其後，因民之欲，西乡为百姓请命，则天下风走而响应矣，孰敢不听！
割大弱彊，以立诸侯，诸侯已立，天下服听而归德於齐。
案齐之故，有胶、泗之地，怀诸侯以德，深拱揖让，则天下之君王相率而朝於齐矣。
盖闻天与弗取，反受其咎；时至不行，反受其殃。
原足下孰虑之。
translation: 
In my estimation, if the situation is like this, the world's sages will not be able to quell this world's chaos.
Today the fate of King Liu and King Xiang hangs in your hands.
If you assist the King of Han, the King of Han will be victorious; if you assist the King of Chu, the King of Chu will be victorious.
I'm willing to work tirelessly and offer stupid tricks, but I'm afraid you won't adopt them.
If you really can follow my strategy, it is better to let both Chu and Han remain unharmed and continue to exist at the same time. You and they will divide the world into three parts and stand side by side. In such a situation, no one will dare to act rashly.
Relying on your virtuous and holy virtues, possessing many troops and equipment, occupying the powerful Qi State, forcing Yan and Zhao to submit, sending troops to the empty areas of Liu and Xiang's armies to contain their rear, complying with the people's wishes, going west to stop Liu and Xiang from fighting, and asking for the lives of the soldiers and people, then the world will quickly rise to respond. Who dares not to obey!
Then, the territory of the big country was cut off, the power of the powerful country was weakened, and the princes were divided into feudal states. After the princes are restored, the world will be grateful and obey Qi's orders.
If you secure the old territory of Qi and occupy the Jiaohe and Sishui river basins, and inspire the princes with kindness and be respectful and humble, then the kings of the world will come to pay homage to Qi one after another.
It is said that if you do not accept the benefits given by heaven, you will be punished; if you do not take action when the time comes, you will suffer disaster.
I hope you will consider this matter carefully.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
韩信曰： 汉王遇我甚厚，载我以其车，衣我以其衣，食我以其食。
吾闻之，乘人之车者载人之患，衣人之衣者怀人之忧，食人之食者死人之事，吾岂可以乡利倍义乎！
蒯生曰： 足下自以为善汉王，欲建万世之业，臣窃以为误矣。
始常山王、成安君为布衣时，相与为刎颈之交，後争张黡、陈泽之事，二人相怨。
常山王背项王，奉项婴头而窜，逃归於汉王。
汉王借兵而东下，杀成安君泜水之南，头足异处，卒为天下笑。
此二人相与，天下至驩也。
然而卒相禽者，何也？
患生於多欲而人心难测也。
今足下欲行忠信以交於汉王，必不能固於二君之相与也，而事多大於张黡、陈泽。故臣以为足下必汉王之不危己，亦误矣。
大夫种、范蠡存亡越，霸勾践，立功成名而身死亡。
野兽已尽而猎狗烹。
夫以交友言之，则不如张耳之与成安君者也；以忠信言之，则不过大夫种、范蠡之於勾践也。
translation: 
Han Xin said: The king of Han gave me very generous treatment. I was given a ride in his carriage, his clothes were given to me to wear, and his food was given to me.
I heard that those who ride in someone else's car have to share someone else's troubles, those who wear someone else's clothes have to think about someone else's worries in their hearts, and those who eat someone else's food have to die for someone else's cause. How can I seek personal gain and betray my trust!
Kuai Tong said: You think you are friendly with the King of Han and want to establish achievements that will last forever. I privately think this idea is wrong.
When King Changshan and Lord Cheng'an were still common people, they formed a friendship that they would not regret even if they had their heads cut off. Later, they had a dispute over Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze, which made the two hate each other.
King Changshan betrayed King Xiang, fled in embarrassment, and surrendered to the King of Han.
The king of Han lent him troops to attack eastward, and killed Lord Cheng'an south of the Sang River. His head was missing, and he was ridiculed by the people of the world.
The friendship between these two people can be said to be the best in the world.
But in the end, they all want to kill each other. Why?
Disasters arise from insatiable greed and the unpredictable nature of people's minds.
Now that you plan to use loyalty and trustworthiness to make friends with the King of Han, it will definitely not be as strong as the friendship between Zhang Er and Chen Yu, and the relationship between you is much more important than the affairs of Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze, so I think you are wrong in concluding that the King of Han will not harm you.
The officials Wen Zhong and Fan Li saved the Yue Kingdom from the brink of destruction and assisted Gou Jian in dominating the princes. After becoming famous, Wen Zhong was forced to commit suicide and Fan Li was forced to flee.
The wild beasts have been hunted, and the hounds have been cooked and killed.
In terms of friendship and friendship, you and the King of Han are not as good as Zhang Er and Cheng'anjun. In terms of loyalty and trustworthiness, you are not as good as Wen Zhong, Fan Li, and Gou Jian, the king of Yue.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
此二人者，足以观矣。
原足下深虑之。
且臣闻勇略震主者身危，而功盖天下者不赏。
臣请言大王功略：足下涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说，引兵下井陉，诛成安君，徇赵，胁燕，定齐，南摧楚人之兵二十万，东杀龙且，西乡以报，此所谓功无二於天下，而略不世出者也。
今足下戴震主之威，挟不赏之功，归楚，楚人不信；归汉，汉人震恐：足下欲持是安归乎？
夫势在人臣之位而有震主之威，名高天下，窃为足下危之。
韩信谢曰： 先生且休矣，吾将念之。
後数日，蒯通复说曰： 夫听者事之候也，计者事之机也，听过计失而能久安者，鲜矣。
translation: 
Judging from these two examples, it is enough for you to judge right from wrong.
I hope you will consider this thoughtfully.
Moreover, I have heard that those whose bravery and strategy make the monarch feel threatened are in danger; while those who have outstanding achievements and crown the world will not be rewarded.
Please let me talk about the king's achievements and strategies: you crossed the Xihe River, captured the King of Wei, captured Xia Shuo alive, led the army to seize Jingxing, killed Lord Cheng'an, captured the State of Zhao, subdued the State of Yan with your prestige, pacified the State of Qi, destroyed 200,000 Chu troops to the south, killed Chu General Long Qie to the east, and reported victory to the King of Han to the west. This can be said to be unparalleled merit in the world. And the strategy is outstanding and rare in the world.
Now that you possess power that threatens the monarch, and have achievements that cannot be rewarded, you have surrendered to the Chu State, and the Chu people do not trust you; you have surrendered to the Han State, and the Han people are shocked and frightened: You have such great achievements and prestige, where can you go?
I am in the position of a minister and have the vibration that makes the king feel threatened. My reputation is higher than that of anyone in the world. I feel dangerous for you privately.
Han Xin said: Sir, let’s stop here for now! Let me think about it.
A few days later, Kuai Tong said to Han Xin: If you can listen to the good intentions of others, you can foresee the signs of changes in things, and if you can think over and over, you can grasp the key to success.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
听不失一二者，不可乱以言；计不失本末者，不可纷以辞。
夫随厮养之役者，失万乘之权；守儋石之禄者，阙卿相之位。
故知者决之断也，疑者事之害也，审豪氂之小计，遗天下之大数，智诚知之，决弗敢行者，百事之祸也。
故曰 猛虎之犹豫，不若蜂虿之致螫；骐骥之跼躅，不如驽马之安步；孟贲之狐疑，不如庸夫之必至也；虽有舜禹之智，吟而不言，不如瘖聋之指麾也 。
此言贵能行之。
夫功者难成而易败，时者难得而易失也。
时乎时，不再来。
原足下详察之。
translation: 
There are very few people who are unable to make correct judgments by listening to opinions and make mistakes in decision-making, yet can achieve long-term peace and stability. A person who rarely makes mistakes when listening to opinions cannot use rhetoric to confuse him; a person who is well-planned and does not put the cart before the horse cannot use rhetoric to confuse him.
Those who are willing to do errands of chopping wood and feeding horses will lose the opportunity to fight for the power of the country of ten thousand chariots; those who are content with a meager salary will not get the high position of public minister or prime minister.
Therefore, being decisive in doing things is a sign of a smart person's decisiveness, and being hesitant is the bane of doing things. If you only focus on small things, you will lose sight of the big things in the world. If you have the wisdom to judge right and wrong, but do not dare to act rashly after making a decision, this is the bane of everything.
Therefore, as the saying goes: A tiger that hesitates and cannot make a decision is worse than a wasp or a scorpion stinging; a horse that hesitates is not as good as a bad horse that walks calmly; a warrior Meng Ben who is doubtful is not as good as an ordinary man who is determined to work hard to achieve his goal; even with the wisdom of Yu Shun and Xia Yu, closing his mouth and not speaking is not as effective as a deaf-mute using gestures.
These proverbs illustrate that taking action is the most valuable thing.
All undertakings are difficult to succeed but easy to fail. Opportunities are difficult to seize and easy to lose.
Opportunity, opportunity, if you throw it away, it will never come back.
I hope you will consider it carefully.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
韩信犹豫不忍倍汉，又自以为功多，汉终不夺我齐，遂谢蒯通。
蒯通说不听，已详狂为巫。
汉王之困固陵，用张良计，召齐王信，遂将兵会垓下。
项羽已破，高祖袭夺齐王军。
汉五年正月，徙齐王信为楚王，都下邳。
信至国，召所从食漂母，赐千金。
及下乡南昌亭长，赐百钱，曰： 公，小人也，为德不卒。
召辱己之少年令出胯下者以为楚中尉。告诸将相曰： 此壮士也。
方辱我时，我宁不能杀之邪？
杀之无名，故忍而就於此。
项王亡将锺离眛家在伊庐，素与信善。
项王死後，亡归信。
汉王怨眛，闻其在楚，诏楚捕眛。
translation: 
Han Xin was hesitant and couldn't bear to betray the King of Han. He also thought that because of his outstanding achievements, the King of Han would not take away his Qi State, so he declined Kuai Tong.
Kuai Tong's advice was not adopted, so he pretended to be crazy and became a wizard.
When the King of Han was besieged in Guling, he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and recruited King Han Xin of Qi, so Han Xin led his army to meet the King of Han at Gaixia.
After Xiang Yu was defeated, Gaozu used a surprise attack to seize the military power of King Qi.
In the first month of the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin, the king of Qi, was granted the title of King of Chu, and Xiapi was established as the capital.
When Han Xin arrived at Xiapi, he summoned the floating mother who had given him food and gave her a thousand catties of gold.
When it was his turn to go to the countryside, the head of the pavilion in Nanchang gave him a hundred coins and said: You are a villain, and the good deeds you do have a beginning and an end.
He summoned the young man who had insulted him by letting him crawl under his crotch, appointed him as a lieutenant, and told the generals and ministers: This is a strong man.
When he insulted me, couldn't I have killed him?
It was just that there was no point in killing him, so I endured the momentary insult and achieved what I have achieved today.
King Xiang's fleeing general Zhong Limei lived in Yilu and had always been friendly with Han Xin.
After King Xiang died, he escaped and joined Han Xin.
The King of Han resented Zhong Limei. Hearing that he was in Chu, he ordered Chu to arrest Zhong Limei.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
信初之国，行县邑，陈兵出入。
汉六年，人有上书告楚王信反。
高帝以陈平计，天子巡狩会诸侯，南方有云梦，发使告诸侯会陈： 吾将游云梦。
实欲袭信，信弗知。
高祖且至楚，信欲发兵反，自度无罪，欲谒上，恐见禽。
人或说信曰： 斩眛谒上，上必喜，无患。
信见未计事。
眛曰： 汉所以不击取楚，以眛在公所。若欲捕我以自媚於汉，吾今日死，公亦随手亡矣。
乃骂信曰： 公非长者！
卒自刭。
信持其首，谒高祖於陈。
上令武士缚信，载後车。
信曰： 果若人言， 狡兔死，良狗烹；高鸟尽，良弓藏；敌国破，谋臣亡。
天下已定，我固当亨！
上曰： 人告公反。
遂械系信。
至雒阳，赦信罪，以为淮阴侯。
信知汉王畏恶其能，常称病不朝从。
信由此日夜怨望，居常鞅鞅，羞与绛、灌等列。
信尝过樊将军哙，哙跪拜送迎，言称臣，曰： 大王乃肯临臣！
信出门，笑曰： 生乃与哙等为伍！
上常从容与信言诸将能不，各有差。
上问曰： 如我能将几何？
信曰： 陛下不过能将十万。
translation: 
When Han Xin first arrived in Chu State, he patrolled the counties and cities he belonged to, bringing armed guards with him when he came in and out.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote a letter accusing Han Xin of treason.
Emperor Gao adopted Chen Ping's plan and asked the emperor to go out on an inspection tour to meet with the princes. There was Yunmengze in the south. He sent envoys to inform the princes to gather in Chen County and said: "I want to inspect Yunmengze."
In fact, he wanted to attack Han Xin, but Han Xin didn't know it.
When Emperor Gaozu was about to arrive in Chu, Han Xin wanted to send troops to rebel, but he thought he was not guilty. He wanted to see Emperor Gaozu, but he was afraid of being captured.
Someone said to Han Xin: If you kill Zhong Limei and go to see the emperor, the emperor will be happy and there will be no trouble.
Han Xin went to see Zhong Limei for discussion.
Zhong Limei said: The reason why the King of Han did not attack Chu was because I am here with you and you want to arrest me to please the King of Han. If I die today, you will die soon after.
So he scolded Han Xin and said: You are not a loyal person!
Finally he cut his neck and died.
Han Xin took his head and went to Chen County to pay homage to Emperor Gao.
The emperor ordered the warriors to tie up Han Xin and put him in the accompanying car.
Han Xin said: It is true as people say: when the cunning rabbit dies, the excellent hunting dogs are cooked and killed; when the high-flying birds are gone, the fine bows and arrows are collected; when the enemy's country is destroyed, the adviser dies.
Now that the world is at peace, I should have been cooked and killed!
The emperor said: Someone has accused you of treason.
So Han Xin was given torture instruments.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he pardoned Han Xin's sins and changed his title to Marquis of Huaiyin.
Han Xin knew that the king of Han was afraid of his own abilities and often excused himself from attending court meetings and attending court meetings due to illness.
From then on, Han Xin was resentful day and night, unhappy at home, and felt ashamed of being in the same position as Jianghou and Guan Ying.
Han Xin once visited General Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai knelt down to greet him and called himself a minister. Said: How come the king is willing to come?
Han Xin went out and said with a smile: I have been with people like Fan Kuai in my life.
The emperor often discussed the quality of the generals with Han Xin in his spare time, and believed that each had its own strengths and weaknesses.
The emperor asked Han Xin: How many troops can I command with my talents?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty can only command a hundred thousand people.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
上曰： 於君何如？
曰： 臣多多而益善耳。
上笑曰： 多多益善，何为为我禽？
信曰： 陛下不能将兵，而善将将，此乃言之所以为陛下禽也。
且陛下所谓天授，非人力也。
陈豨拜为钜鹿守，辞於淮阴侯。
淮阴侯挈其手，辟左右与之步於庭，仰天叹曰： 子可与言乎？
欲与子有言也。 豨曰： 唯将军令之。
淮阴侯曰： 公之所居，天下精兵处也；而公，陛下之信幸臣也。
人言公之畔，陛下必不信；再至，陛下乃疑矣；三至，必怒而自将。
吾为公从中起，天下可图也。
陈豨素知其能也，信之，曰： 谨奉教！
汉十年，陈豨果反。
上自将而往，信病不从。
阴使人至豨所，曰： 弟举兵，吾从此助公。
信乃谋与家臣夜诈诏赦诸官徒奴，欲发以袭吕后、太子。
部署已定，待豨报。
translation: 
The emperor said: How are you?
Answer: I am the more the merrier.
The emperor smiled and said: The more you have, the better. Why are you still captured by me?
Han Xin said: Your Majesty cannot lead troops, but he is good at controlling generals. This is why I was captured by Your Majesty.
Besides, Your Majesty was given by God and cannot be achieved by human power.
Chen Xi was appointed as the governor of Julu County and bid farewell to the Marquis of Huaiyin.
Marquis Huaiyin held his hand and walked in the courtyard avoiding the attendants. He looked up at the sky and sighed: "Can you listen to my intimate words?"
I have something on my mind that I want to talk to you about. Chen Xi said: Everything is at the command of the general!
The Marquis of Huaiyin said: The area under your jurisdiction is where the best soldiers from all over the world gather; and you are His Majesty's trusted and favored minister.
If someone reports that you are rebelling, Your Majesty will not believe it; if someone reports you again, Your Majesty will become suspicious; if someone reports you three times, Your Majesty will be furious and personally lead his troops to encircle and suppress you.
If I work as an internal agent in the capital for you, the world can get it.
Chen Xi has always known Han Xin's talents and strategies. I am convinced and say: I will definitely follow your advice!
In the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled.
The emperor personally led his troops there, but Han Tuo was ill and had no followers.
Secretly sent someone to Chen Xi and said: Just raise troops, I am here to assist you.
Han Xin discussed with his retainers and falsely issued an edict at night to pardon the criminals and slaves serving in various government offices, intending to mobilize them to attack Empress Lu and the prince.
The deployment is completed and we are waiting for news from Chen Xi.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其舍人得罪於信，信囚，欲杀之。
舍人弟上变，告信欲反状於吕后。
吕后欲召，恐其党不就，乃与萧相国谋，诈令人从上所来，言豨已得死，列侯群臣皆贺。
相国绐信曰： 虽疾，彊入贺。
信入，吕后使武士缚信，斩之长乐锺室。
信方斩，曰： 吾悔不用蒯通之计，乃为兒女子所诈，岂非天哉！
遂夷信三族。
高祖已从豨军来，至，见信死，且喜且怜之，问： 信死亦何言？
吕后曰： 信言恨不用蒯通计。
高祖曰： 是齐辩士也。
乃诏齐捕蒯通。
蒯通至，上曰： 若教淮阴侯反乎？
对曰： 然，臣固教之。竖子不用臣之策，故令自夷於此。
如彼竖子用臣之计，陛下安得而夷之乎！
上怒曰： 亨之。
通曰： 嗟乎，冤哉亨也！
上曰： 若教韩信反，何冤？
对曰： 秦之纲绝而维弛，山东大扰，异姓并起，英俊乌集。
秦失其鹿，天下共逐之，於是高材疾足者先得焉。
蹠之狗吠尧，尧非不仁，狗因吠非其主。
当是时，臣唯独知韩信，非知陛下也。
translation: 
One of his retainers offended Han Xin, who imprisoned him and planned to kill him.
His younger brother wrote a letter of rebellion and reported to Empress Lu that Han Xin was preparing to rebel.
Empress Lu planned to summon Han Xin, but was afraid that he would not submit, so she conspired with Xiao Xiangguo to pretend that Chen Xi was coming from the emperor, saying that Chen Xi had been captured and executed, and all the princes and ministers came to congratulate him.
Xiao Xiangguo deceived Han Xin and said: Even if he is ill, he must work hard to go to the palace to congratulate him.
When Han Xin entered the palace, Empress Lu ordered the warriors to tie Han Xin up and kill him in the bell chamber of Changle Palace.
When Han Xin was about to be executed, he said: I regret that I did not adopt Kuai Tong's plan and was deceived by women and boys. Isn't it God's will?
So he killed the three Han and Xin tribes.
Emperor Gaozu returned to the capital from the army that suppressed Chen Xi's rebellion. When he saw that Han Xin was dead, he was happy and pitied him, and asked: What did Han Xin say before he died?
Queen Lu said: Han Xin said he regretted not adopting Kuai Tong's plan.
Emperor Gaozu said: That man is a lobbyist of Qi State.
He ordered Qi to capture Kuai Tong.
Kuai Tong was brought, and the emperor said: "Did you instigate the Marquis of Huaiyin to rebel?"
Answer: Yes. I did teach him that the boy would perish by not following my plan.
If that kid adopts my plan, how can Your Majesty destroy him?
The emperor said angrily: "Cook him."
Kuai Tong said: Oh, boil me to death, it is unfair!
The emperor said: You instigated Han Xin to rebel. What injustice is there?
Kuai Tong said: When the laws of the Qin Dynasty were corrupted and the political power collapsed, the six kingdoms of Shandong were in chaos. The princes from all walks of life revolted one after another. For a time, the heroes of the world gathered like crows.
The Qin Dynasty lost its throne, and all the heroes in the world came to snatch it, so those with high intelligence and quick actions were the first to get it.
Zhi's dog barked at Yao. Yao was not unkind, just because he was not the owner of the dog.
At this time, I only knew that there was Han Xin, but not His Majesty.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
且天下锐精持锋欲为陛下所为者甚众，顾力不能耳。
又可尽亨之邪？ 高帝曰： 置之。
乃释通之罪。
太史公曰：吾入淮阴，淮阴人为余言，韩信虽为布衣时，其志与众异。
其母死，贫无以葬，然乃行营高敞地，令其旁可置万家。
余视其母冢，良然。
假令韩信学道谦让，不伐己功，不矜其能，则庶几哉，於汉家勋可以比周、召、太公之徒，後世血食矣。
不务出此，而天下已集，乃谋畔逆，夷灭宗族，不亦宜乎！
君臣一体，自古所难。
相国深荐，策拜登坛。
沈沙决水，拔帜传餐。
与汉汉重，归楚楚安。
三分不议，伪游可叹。
translation: 
Moreover, there are too many people in the world who are sharpening their weapons and holding sharp knives in their hands who want to do what Your Majesty is doing, but they are just not up to the task.
How can you cook them all to death? Emperor Gaozu said: Let him go.
Kuai Tong's sins were forgiven.
Tai Shigong said: When I went to Huaiyin, the Huaiyin people told me that even when Han Xin was a commoner, his ambition was different.
His mother passed away and the family was too poor to bury her, but he still looked for a high and spacious cemetery where thousands of families could be placed next to the tomb.
I looked at his mother's grave and it was true.
If Han Xin could humbly give in and not boast about his achievements or rely on his own talents, that would be enough. His achievements in the Han Dynasty can be compared with those of Zhou Gong, Zhao Gong, and Taigong in the Zhou Dynasty, and future generations can enjoy endless sacrifices.
However, he failed to commit himself to doing this, and the world was already stable. Instead, he plotted rebellion and killed the clan. Isn't it right?
The integration of monarch and minister has been difficult since ancient times.
Han Xin was valued by Prime Minister Xiao He and highly recommended to Liu Bang. Because of his strategies, he was worshiped as a general.
In the battle of Weishui, they attacked halfway across the river, and in the battle of backwater, they uprooted the Zhao flag and changed it to the Han flag.
Belonging to the side of the Han Dynasty will increase the Han State's certainty of victory, and belonging to the Chu State will stabilize the Chu State.
In the end, he did not consider the three parts of the world, and ended up with Gaozu pretending to be Yunmeng and being demoted, which is really sighing.


