Chunk 0: 
original: 
赵广汉字子都，涿郡蠡吾人也，故属河间。
少为郡吏、州从事，以廉洁通敏下士为名。
举茂材，平准令。
察廉为阳翟令。
以治行尤异，迁京辅都尉，守京兆尹。
会昭帝崩，而新丰杜建为京兆掾，护作平陵方上。
建素豪侠，宾客为奸利，广汉闻之，先风告。
建不改，于是收案致法。
中贵人豪长者为请无不至，终无所听。
宗族宾客谋欲篡取，广汉尽知其计议主名起居，使吏告曰： 若计如此，且并灭家。
令数吏将建弃市，莫敢近者。
京师称之。
是时，昌邑王征即位，行淫乱，大将军霍光与群臣共废王，尊立宣帝。
广汉以与议定策，赐爵关内侯。
迁颍川太守。
郡大姓原、褚宗族横恣，宾客犯为盗贼，前二千石莫能禽制。
广汉既至数月，诛原、褚首恶，郡中震栗。
先是，颍川豪杰大姓相与为婚姻，吏俗朋党。
广汉患之，厉使其中可用者受记，出有案问，既得罪名，行法罚之，广汉故漏泄其语，令相怨咎。
又教吏为缿筩，及得投书，削其主名，而托以为豪桀大姓子弟所言。
其后强宗大族家家结为仇雠，奸党散落，风俗大改。
吏民相告讦，广汉得以为耳目，盗贼以故不发，发又辄得。
一切治理，威名流闻，及匈奴降者言匈奴中皆闻广汉。
本始二年，汉发五将军击匈奴，征遣广汉以太守将兵，属蒲类将军赵充国。
从军还，复用守京兆尹，满岁为真。
广汉为二千石，以和颜接士，其尉荐待遇吏，殷勤甚备。
事推功善，归之于下，曰： 某掾卿所为，非二千石所及。
translation: 
Zhao Guang, whose Chinese name is Zidu, was a native of Liwu County, Zhuo County. Liwu County was originally part of the Hejian Kingdom.
When he was young, he worked as a county official and a state official. He was famous for his integrity, savvy, courtesy and corporal.
He was elected as Maocai and made a leveling order to manage market prices.
After assessment, he was appointed as the Yangdi Order.
Because his performance in managing government affairs was particularly outstanding, he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant of Jingfu, acting as Jing Zhaoyin.
When Emperor Zhao died, Xinfeng Du Jian was appointed as Jingzhao and was responsible for the construction of Emperor Zhao's tomb.
Du Jian has always been a hero, and his guests made illegal profits from it. When Guanghan heard about this, he tactfully warned him in advance.
Du Jian refused to change, so the case was closed and punished.
Many powerful people and eunuchs interceded on his behalf, but Guanghan finally did not listen.
The clan and guests planned to kidnap Du Jian. Guanghan learned all of their plans and the name and residence of the mastermind. He sent officials to tell them: If they plot like this, the whole family will be destroyed.
He ordered all the officials to execute Du Jian in the busy city, but no one dared to approach him.
Everyone in the capital praised him.
At that time, Liu He, the king of Changyi, was summoned to Beijing to ascend the throne. He behaved lewdly. General Huo Guang and his officials deposed the king of Changyi and established Emperor Xuan.
Guanghan was given the title of Marquis of Guannei because he participated in the discussion and formulation of strategies.
Guanghan moved to Yingchuan as governor.
The Yuan and Chu tribes in the county were rampant and their guests broke the law and became thieves. None of the former officials of two thousand stone could capture and subdue them.
A few months after Guanghan arrived, he killed the evildoers led by Yuan and Chu. The people in the county were shocked and frightened.
In the end, Yingchuan heroes entered into marriages with each other, and the government and the people formed a party.
Guanghan was very worried about this matter, so he rewarded those who could use it and let them know the contents of the indictment in advance. When there was a case to be interrogated, and the charges had been obtained, he would punish them according to the law. Guanghan deliberately leaked their words to make them blame each other.
He also asked the officials to make a snitch bucket. When he received the letter, he cut off the name of the snitch and pretended to be a son of a hero.
From then on, powerful families became enemies, traitors were dispersed and defeated, and customs changed greatly.
Officials and common people came to complain and expose, and Guanghan could use them as eyes and ears. Therefore, thieves could not commit crimes, and they would be caught if they committed crimes.
Everything was managed, and Guanghan's reputation spread so widely that the surrendered Huns said that all the Huns had heard of Guanghan.
In the second year of this year, the imperial court sent five generals to attack the Xiongnu, and requisitioned Guanghan to lead the army as a prefect, subordinate to Pulei general Zhao Chongguo.
After returning from the army, he still acted as Jing Zhaoyin, and was actually awarded Jing Zhaoyin a year later.
As a Yin of the capital, Zhao Guanghan accepted scholars and looked good. He treated his subordinates with comfort and recommendation, and was diligent and diligent.
When he succeeded, he declined the credit and attributed it to his subordinates, saying: "It was a certain officer who did it, and it is not what I can do with two thousand stones."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
行之发于至诚。
吏见者皆输写心腹，无所隐匿，咸愿为用。
僵仆无所避。广汉聪明，皆知其能之所宜，尽力与否。其或负者，辄先闻知，风谕不改，乃收捕之，无所逃，按之罪立具，即时伏辜。
广汉为人强力，天性精于吏职。
见吏民，或夜不寝至旦。
尤善为钩距，以得事情。
钩距者，设欲知马贾，则先问狗，已问羊，又问牛，然后及马，参伍其贾，以类相准，则知马之贵贱不失实矣。
唯广汉至精能行之，他人效者莫能及。
郡中盗贼，闾里轻侠，其根株窟穴所在，及吏受取请求铢两之奸，皆知之。
长安少年数人会穷里空舍谋共劫人，坐语未讫，广汉使吏捕治具服。
富人苏回为郎，二人劫之。
有倾，广汉将吏到家，自立庭下，使长安丞龚奢叩堂户晓贼，曰： 京兆尹赵君谢两卿，无得杀质，此宿卫臣也。
释质，束手，得善相遇，幸逢赦令，或时解脱。
二人惊愕，又素闻广汉名，即开户出，下堂叩头，广汉跪谢曰： 幸全活郎，甚厚！
送狱，敕吏谨遇，给酒肉。
至冬当出死，豫为调棺，给敛葬具，告语之，皆曰： 死无所恨！
广汉尝记召湖都亭长，湖都亭长西至界上，界上亭长戏曰： 至府，为我多谢问赵君。
亭长既至，广汉与语，问事毕，谓曰： 界上亭长寄声谢我，何以不为致问？
亭长叩头服实有之。
广汉因曰： 还为吾谢界上亭长，勉思职事，有以自效，京兆不忘卿厚意。
其发奸擿伏如神，皆此类也。
translation: 
Actions originate from a sincere heart.
The officials who met him all confided their secrets without hiding anything. They were all willing to be used by him and would not escape even if they died.
Guanghan clearly knows what their abilities are suitable for and whether they can try their best. If anyone among them betrays him, let him know first. If he refuses to change after being advised, he will be arrested. If he cannot escape, he will be charged according to his crime and immediately punished.
Guanghan is a shrewd and capable man, and is naturally proficient in the ways of being an official.
You can stay up all night to meet with officials and people.
He is especially good at the art of hook distance, and can use this to find out the whole story.
The method of hook distance is, if you want to know the price of a horse, first ask the price of the dog, then the price of the sheep, then the price of the cow, and then the price of the horse. Compare these prices with each other, and measure them by category, and you will be able to know whether the horse is worthy or not.
Only Guanghan is the most proficient in the art of hook distance, and no one can catch up after others imitate it.
He knows the thieves in the county, the light knights in the house, their foundations and caves, as well as the subordinate officials who abuse the law and collect property, and he knows the most trivial treachery.
Several teenagers from Chang'an were planning to kidnap someone together in a secluded house in Lizhong. Before they could finish their words, Guanghan sent officials to arrest and punish them all and bring them to justice.
The rich man Su Hui was appointed as a man, and two people kidnapped him.
After a while, Guanghan arrived at their home with his subordinates. Guanghan stood in the court and asked Chang'an Prime Minister Gong She to knock on the door and tell the robbers, "Jingzhao Yin Zhaojun thanks you two, please don't kill the hostages. This man is the emperor's bodyguard."
If the hostages are released and do not resist, you will be treated well, and you may be lucky enough to receive a pardon order, or you may be exempted from the crime at that time.
The two men were shocked. They had heard of Guang Han's reputation again. They immediately opened the door and went down to the hall to kowtow. Guang Han knelt down and thanked him, saying: "I'm glad to have saved Lang Guan's life. You are very kind to others!"
Send the two to prison. Tell the jailer to treat each other with courtesy and provide him with food and wine.
In winter, when the two of them should be released from prison and sentenced to death, Guanghan prepared coffins for them in advance, provided them with burial utensils, and told them. Both of them said: There will be no resentment in death like this!
Zhao Guanghan once sent a message to summon the chief of the capital pavilion of Hu County. The chief of the capital pavilion went west to Jie Shang. The chief of the Jieshang pavilion joked: When you get to the county government, please ask Mr. Zhao for me.
When the pavilion chief arrived at the county government, Guang Han talked with him. After asking about official business, he said to him: "The chief of the pavilion in Jieshang sent me a message. Why don't you convey his greetings?"
The head of the pavilion kowtowed and was convinced that this was indeed the case.
Guang Han then said: Go back and ask the director of the pavilion for me to ask him to do his job well and do his best. Jing Zhao will not forget his loyalty.
He reveals private affairs like a god, and this is often the case.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
广汉奏请，令长安游徼狱吏秩百石，其后百石吏皆差自重，不敢枉法妄系留人。
京兆政清，吏民称之不容口。
长老传以为自汉兴治京兆者莫能及。
左冯翊、右扶风皆治长安中，犯法者从迹喜过京兆界。
广汉叹曰： 乱吾治者，常二辅也！诚令广汉得兼治之，直差易耳。
初，大将军霍光秉政，广汉事光。
及光薨后，广汉心知微指，发长安吏自将，与俱至光子博陆侯禹第，直突入其门，廋索私屠酤，椎破卢罂，斧斩其门关而去。
时，光女为皇后，闻之，对帝涕泣。
帝心善之，以召问广汉。
广汉由是侵犯贵戚大臣。
所居好用世吏子孙新进年少者，专厉强壮锋气，见事风生，无所回避，率多果敢之计，莫为持难。
广汉终以此败。
初，广汉客私酤酒长安市，丞相吏逐去，客疑男子苏贤言之，以语广汉。
广汉使长安丞按贤，尉史禹故劾贤为骑士屯霸上，不诣屯所，乏军兴。
贤父上书讼罪，告广汉，事下有司复治，禹坐要斩，请逮捕广汉。
有诏即讯，辞服，会赦，贬秩一等。
广汉疑其邑子荣畜教令，后以他法论杀畜。
人上书言之，事下丞相御史，案验甚急。
广汉使所亲信长安人为丞相府门卒，令微司丞相门内不法事。
地节三年七月中，丞相傅婢有过，自绞死。
广汉闻之，疑丞相夫人妒杀之府舍。
而丞相奉斋酎入庙祠，广汉得此，使中郎赵奉寿风晓丞相，欲以胁之，毋令穷正己事。
丞相不听，按验愈急。
广汉欲告之。先问太史知星气者，言今年当有戮死大臣，广汉即上书告丞相罪。
制曰： 下京兆尹治。
广汉知事迫切，遂自将吏卒突入丞相府，召其夫人跪庭下受辞，收奴婢十余人去，责以杀婢事。
丞相魏相上书自陈： 妻实不杀婢。
广汉数犯罪法不伏辜，以诈巧迫胁臣相，幸臣相宽不奏。
愿下明使者治广汉所验臣相家事。
事下廷尉治，实丞相自以过谴笞傅婢，出至外弟乃死，不如广汉言。
司直萧望之劾奏： 广汉摧辱大臣，欲以劫持奉公，逆节伤化，不道。
宣帝恶之。下广汉廷尉狱，又坐贼杀不辜，鞠狱故不以实，擅斥除骑士乏军兴数罪。天子可其奏。
吏民守阙号泣者数万人，或言： 臣生无益县官，愿代赵京兆死，使得牧养小民。
广汉竟坐要斩。
广汉虽坐法诛，为京兆尹廉明，威制豪强，小民得职。
百姓追思，歌之至今。
translation: 
Guanghan petitioned to increase the salary of the traveling wardens in Chang'an to a hundred shi. From then on, the subordinate officials who received a salary of a hundred shi were more self-respecting and did not dare to arrest people arbitrarily in violation of the law.
Jingzhao's politics were clear and clear, and officials and people were full of praise for him.
The elders rumored that no one who had managed Jingzhao since the rise of Bai Han could match him.
The official offices of Zuo Fengyi and You Fufeng were both located in Chang'an, and criminals often traveled to the boundaries of Jingzhao to commit crimes.
Guang Han sighed and said: Those who disrupt my management are often Zuo Fengyi and You Fufeng. If I can control the second assistant at the same time, it will be easier to govern Chang'an.
At the beginning, the general Huo Guang was in power, and Guanghan served Huo Guang.
After Huo Guang died, Guanghan knew the emperor's intentions and sent the Chang'an officials to lead him personally. They went with him to the residence of Huo Guang's son, Bolu Marquis Huo Yu. They broke into the palace gate, searched and arrested those who secretly slaughtered animals and sold wine, smashed Lu Yue with his spine, and cut off the door bolt with an axe.
Huo Guang's daughter was the queen at the time. When she heard about this incident, she cried to the emperor.
The emperor applauded this matter in his heart, so he only summoned Guanghan for questioning.
Guanghan offended his relatives and ministers.
Guang Hanping likes to appoint the young descendants of the old officials and blindly promote their strong and sharp spirit. When they see something happen, they can't avoid it. Most of them have the intention of making a decisive decision with him, and no one can support him in the crisis situation.
Guanghan eventually got into trouble because of this.
At first, a retainer from Guanghan was selling wine secretly in the Chang'an market, but the prime minister's officials drove him away. The retainer suspected that the man Su Xian had reported the matter, so he told Guang Han.
Guanghan sent Chang An Cheng to track down Su Xian, and Wei Shiyu therefore impeached Su Xian as a knight to station in Ba Shang, but he could not reach the station and lacked military supplies.
Su Xian's father filed a complaint against Guang Han, and the matter was dealt with again by the department. Yu was sentenced to death and asked to arrest Guanghan.
There was an edict to interrogate him on the spot, and Guanghanzhong surrendered. It happened that he was pardoned, and his salary was only reduced by one level.
Guanghan suspected that this incident was instigated by Rongwu, a man from Tongyi, and later killed Rongwu on other charges.
Someone wrote a letter to report this matter, and Emperor Xuan handed the case over to the prime minister and the imperial censor. The investigation was very urgent.
A Chang'an man who was closely trusted by the Guanghan faction served as a pawn in the prime minister's house and asked him to secretly inquire about illegal affairs in the prime minister's house.
In the middle of the seventh month of the third year of Dijie, the prime minister committed suicide by hanging himself with his maid.
Guanghan heard about this and suspected that the prime minister's wife had killed her in the mansion out of jealousy, while the prime minister was fasting to attend the ancestral temple for worship.
When Guanghan learned of the incident, he sent his lieutenant Zhao Fengshou to advise the prime minister, hoping to blackmail him and prevent him from pursuing his own affairs.
The Prime Minister refused to listen and the investigation became more urgent.
Guang Han wanted to report him, so he first asked Tai Shi, who knew the stars, and Tai Shi said that a minister would be killed this year, so Guang Han immediately wrote a letter to report the prime minister's crime.
The emperor ordered: Leave it to Jing Zhaoyin to handle.
Guanghan knew that the matter was urgent, so he led his troops to the prime minister's house, summoned the prime minister's wife to kneel in the court to listen to her speech, took away more than ten slaves, and interrogated them about killing the maid.
Prime Minister Wei Xiang wrote a letter stating: My wife did not kill her maid.
Guanghan committed many crimes and failed to acquit himself according to the law. He used deceptive means to coerce his minister Wei, but fortunately his minister Wei tolerated and did not complain.
I hope to send Qingming envoys to deal with the family affairs of the minister Wei Xiang confirmed by Guanghan.
The matter was handed over to the Tingwei. It was indeed the prime minister who whipped and expelled the maid because of his fault. The maid died after being driven out of the prime minister's house. This was not what Guang Han said.
Xiao Wang, the commander-in-chief, impeached him and said: "Guanghan insulted the ministers, wanted to threaten the prime minister, violated the law and harmed the morals. It was an unethical crime."
Emperor Xuan was disgusted with him and sent Guanghan to Tingwei Prison. He also killed innocent people, deliberately interrogated the case without knowing the truth, and arbitrarily rebuked the knights for their lack of armaments. The emperor approved his memorial.
Tens of thousands of officials and common people stood by the palace and wailed. Some said that the emperor's life was of no benefit to the imperial court, and were willing to die for Zhao Jingzhao so that he could live to support the people.
Guanghan was finally cut in half.
Although Guanghan was punished for breaking the law, he was an honest and upright person, restrained the powerful, and allowed the common people to take their own positions.
The people still miss him and praise him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
尹翁归字子兄，河东平阳人也，徙杜陵。
翁归少孤，与季父居。
为狱小吏，晓习文法。
喜击剑，人莫能当。
是时，大将军霍光秉政，诸霍在平阳，奴客持刀兵入市斗变，吏不能禁，及翁归为市吏，莫敢犯者。
公廉不受馈，百贾畏之。
后去吏居家。
会田延年为河东太守，行县至平阳，悉召故吏五六十人，延年亲临见，令有文者东，有武者西。
阅数十人，次到翁归，独伏不肯起，对曰： 翁归文武兼备，唯所施设。
功曹以为此吏倨敖不逊，延年曰 何伤？
遂召上辞问，甚奇其对，除补卒史，便从归府。
案事发奸，穷竟事情，延年大重之，自以能不及翁归，徙署督邮。
河东二十八县，分为两部，闳孺部汾北，翁归部汾南。
所举应法，得其罪辜，属县长吏虽中伤，莫有怨者。
举廉为缑氏尉，历守郡中，所居治理，迁补都内令，举廉为弘农都尉。
征拜东海太守，过辞廷尉于定国。
定国家在东海，欲属托邑子两人，令坐后堂待见。
定国与翁归语终日，不敢见其邑子。
既去，定国乃谓邑子曰： 此贤将，汝不任事也，又不可干以私。
翁归治东海明察，郡中吏民贤不肖，及奸邪罪名尽知之，县县各有记籍。
自听其政，有急名则少缓之，吏民小解，辄披籍。
县县收取黠吏豪民，案致其罪，高至于死。
收取人必于秋冬课吏大会中，及出行县，不以无事时。
其有所取也，以一警百，吏民皆服，恐惧改行自新。
translation: 
Yin Wenggui, named Zixiong, was originally from Pingyang, Hedong, and later moved to Duling.
Weng Gui lost his father when he was young and lived with Ji's father.
He works as a prison clerk and is familiar with the law.
He loves fencing and no one can resist him.
At this time, the general Huo Guang was in charge of the government. The Huo family lived in Pingyang. The slaves and guests of the family came to the market with swords and weapons to fight and cause chaos. The officials could not stop it. When Weng returned to work as a market official, no one dared to break the law and cause chaos.
He is fair and honest and does not accept gifts from concubines. Merchants are afraid of him.
Later he resigned and stayed at home.
It happened that Tian Yannian was the governor of Hedong and inspected various counties when he arrived in Pingyang. He summoned all the officials and soldiers in the past, fifty or sixty people.
After inspecting dozens of people, when it was Wenggui's turn, he fell to the ground alone and refused to get up. He replied: Wenggui is both civil and military, please arrange him.
The meritorious officer thought that this officer was arrogant and arrogant, so Yannian said: "What's the harm?"
So he called him forward to ask questions, and was surprised by his answers. He made him a soldier and followed him back to the county government.
Weng Gui inquired about the matter and exposed the adultery, and was able to tell the whole story. Yannian valued him very much and thought he was not as capable as Weng Gui, so he was transferred to acting postal supervisor.
There are twenty-eight counties in Heshu, which are divided into two parts. Hongru is in charge of the north of Fenshui, and Wenggui is in charge of the south of Fenshui.
Weng Gui acted in accordance with the law and arrested those who committed crimes. Even if the county magistrate secretly framed him, no one resented him.
After the assessment, he was appointed as the Lieutenant of the Feng family. He successively held various positions in the county. He managed the places he went to well. He was promoted to the imperial edict and became the Lieutenant of Hongnong.
He was appointed as the governor of Donghai and went to visit Yu Dingguo to bid farewell to the imperial officer.
Ding's country is in the East China Sea, and he wants to entrust the sons of two people from the same city to Weng Gui and let them sit in the back hall to wait for an audience.
Dingguo talked with Weng Gui for a whole day, but he did not dare to let the son of his fellow countryman come to see him.
After Weng Gui left, Dingguo said to Yizi: "He is a wise official. You don't know how to do things, and I can't ask for help based on personal relationships."
Weng Gui governs Shuhai and governs the Qingming Dynasty. We all know the virtuous and unvirtuous officials and people in the county, as well as their treacherous and evil crimes. Each county has its own registration book.
He personally handles the political affairs of each county. If there is an urgent order, he will delay it for a while; if the officials and people are slack, he will disclose the list of guilty persons.
Counties and counties arrested cunning officials and wealthy people, and after examination, they determined the charges, which could lead to the death penalty.
The arrests must be made during the official evaluation meetings in autumn and winter, and when going out to inspect various counties, not when there is nothing wrong.
He arrested people in order to convince the officials and the people to change their ways out of fear.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
东海大豪郯许仲孙为奸猾，乱吏治，郡中苦之。
二千石欲捕者，辄以力势变诈自解，终莫能制。
翁归至，论弃仲孙市，一郡怖栗，莫敢犯禁。
东海大治。
以高第入守右扶风，满岁为真。
选用廉平疾奸吏以为右职，接待以礼，好恶与同之；其负翁归，罚亦必行。
治如在东海故迹，奸邪罪名亦县县有名籍。
盗贼发其比伍中，翁归辄召其县长吏，晓告以奸黠主名，教使用类推迹盗贼所过抵，类常如翁归言，无有遗脱。
缓于小弱，急于豪强。
豪强有论罪，输掌畜官，使斫莝，责以员程，不得取代。
不中程，辄笞督，极者至以鈇自刭而死。
京师畏其威严，扶风大治，盗贼课常为三辅最。
翁归为政虽任刑，其在公卿之间清洁自守，语不及私，然温良谦退，不以行能骄人，甚得名誉于朝廷。
视事数岁，元康四年病卒。
家无余财，天子贤之，制诏御史： 朕夙兴夜寐，以求贤为右，不异亲疏近远，务在安民而已。
扶风翁归廉平乡正，治民异等，早夭不遂，不得终其功业，朕甚怜之。
其赐翁归子黄金百斤，以奉其祭祠。
翁归三子皆为郡守。
少子岑历位九卿，至后将军。
而闳孺应至广陵相，有治名。
由是世称田延年为知人。
韩延寿字长公，燕人也，徙杜陵。
少为郡文学。
父义为燕郎中。
刺王之谋逆也，义谏而死，燕人闵之。
是时，昭帝富于春秋，大将军霍光持政，征郡国贤良、文学，问以得失。
时魏相以文学对策，以为 赏罚所以劝善禁恶，政之本也。
translation: 
Xu Zhongsun of Tan County, a great gentry in Shuhai, was cunning and cunning, disrupting the administration of officials, and the county suffered from him.
The county guard wanted to arrest him, but he used his power to deceive and escape, and no one was able to subdue him.
After Weng Gui arrived, he sentenced Zhongsun to death and abandoned the market. The whole county was in trembling, and no one dared to violate the law.
Shuhai was therefore at peace.
Yin Weng was appointed to Youfufeng due to his excellent political performance, and was actually appointed to his post a year later.
He chose officials who were honest, just, and hated treachery as his assistants, treated them with courtesy, and had the same likes and dislikes as them; those who betrayed Weng Gui would also be punished.
The method of governance is the same as Shuhai's old method, and the crimes of treachery are also recorded in the county.
When a thief was discovered in the neighboring army, Weng Gui summoned the chief official of that county and told him clearly the name of the cunning chief culprit, and taught him to deduce the places where the thief had passed and where he had taken refuge. Most of them were as Weng Gui said, and no one escaped.
We will relax policies for the weak and step up the investigation of the powerful.
If a powerful person is found guilty, he will send it to the livestock officer and order him to cut the grass. The requirement is based on the number of people and days, which cannot be replaced.
Those who do not meet the quota will be punished by flogging, and in extreme cases, they will be killed by using a spear.
The capital was in awe of his majesty, and Fufeng became stable. Catching thieves was always the best among the three assistants.
Although Weng Gui attached great importance to law and punishment in his administration, he was known for his integrity, keeping his words to himself, being gentle and modest, and not looking down on others with his own talents. Therefore, he had a good reputation in the court.
He served for many years, and Yuan Kang died of illness four years ago.
There was no extra property in the family, so the emperor thought he was very wise, so he wrote to Shao Yushi: I work hard and sleep hard, taking the pursuit of talented people as the most important thing. I don't distinguish between relatives and friends, just to appease the people.
Fufeng Wenggui is honest, fair and upright, and it is unusual for him to govern the people. He was not able to complete his achievements because of his early misfortune. I pity him very much.
Give Weng Gui's son a hundred catties of gold to support the sacrifices in his family's temple.
Weng Gui's three sons all became county guards.
The youngest son Yin Cen successively served as Jiuqing and later general.
And Min Ru also reached the position of Guangling Prime Minister and had a reputation for being good at governance.
Therefore, the world praised Tian Yannian as a person who knew how to employ people.
Han Yanshou, named Xinggong, was originally from Handi, but later moved to Shizuo.
When he was young, he was a county literature scholar.
Father; Yu is Ci’s doctor.
Liu Dan, the assassin king of Yan, rebelled, and Han Zhan died for admonishing him. The whole people sympathized with him.
At this time, Emperor Zhao was already old, and General Huo Guang took control of the political power. He recruited virtuous writers from the county and asked them about political gains and losses.
At that time, Wei Chi responded as a writer, believing that the purpose of rewards and punishments is to encourage good and prohibit evil, which is the foundation of government.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
日者燕王为无道，韩义出身强谏，为王所杀。
义无比干之亲而蹈比干之节，宜显赏其子，以示天下，明为人臣之义。
光纳其言，因擢延寿为谏大夫，迁淮阳太守。
治甚有名，徙颍川。
颍川多豪强，难治，国家常为选良二千石。
先是，赵广汉为太守，患其俗多朋党，故构会吏民，令相告讦，一切以为聪明，颍川由是以为俗，民多怨仇。
延寿欲更改之，教以礼让，恐百姓不从，乃历召郡中长老为乡里所信向者数十人，设酒具食，亲与相对，接以礼意，人人问以谣俗，民所疾苦，为陈和睦亲爱、销除怨咎之路。
长老皆以为便，可施行，因与议定嫁娶、丧祭仪品，略依古礼，不得过法。
延寿于是令文学校官诸生皮弁执俎豆，为吏民行丧嫁娶礼。
百姓遵用其教，卖偶车马下里伪物者，弃之市道。
数年，徙为东郡太守，黄霸代延寿居颍川，霸因其迹而大治。
延寿为吏，上礼义，好古教化，所至必聘其贤士，以礼待用，广谋议，纳谏争；举行丧让财，表孝弟有行；修治学官，春秋乡射，陈钟鼓管弦，盛升降揖让，及都试讲武，设斧铖旌旗，习射御之事，治城郭，收赋租，先明布告其日，以期会为大事，吏民敬畏趋乡之。
又置正、五长，相率以孝弟，不得舍奸人。
闾里仟佰有非常，吏辄闻知，奸人莫敢入界。
其始若烦，后吏无追捕之苦，民无箠楚之忧，皆便安之。
接待下吏，恩施甚厚而约誓明。
或欺负之者，延寿痛自刻责： 岂其负之，何以至此？
吏闻者自伤悔，其县尉至自刺死。
及门下掾自刭，人救不殊，因瘖不能言。
延寿闻之，对掾史涕泣，遣吏医治视，厚复其家。
translation: 
In the past, King Yan behaved unethically, and Han Yi stood up to remonstrate with him, but was killed by King Yan.
Han Yi did not have the same kinship with King Yan as King Zhou did than Gan did, but he practiced the same moral integrity as King Yan. His son should be greatly rewarded, so as to show the world and clarify the principles of being a minister.
Huo Guang accepted his suggestion and promoted Yanshou to the position of admonishing doctor and to the post of Huaiyang prefect.
Yanshou was very famous in politics and was transferred to Yingchuan.
Yingchuan has many powerful people and is difficult to govern, so the state often selects powerful governors for it.
Before that, he went to Guanghan to serve as the governor. He was worried about the local custom of gathering friends and forming cliques, so he made friends with officials and people and asked them to report on each other. This expedient was to keep a close eye on political affairs. As a result, Yingchuan's reporting became common and the people often became enemies.
Yanshou wanted to change this trend and educate the people with courtesy, but he was worried that the people would not follow suit, so he summoned dozens of county elders who were trusted and respected by the villagers one after another. He held a banquet and personally accompanied them. He told them his idea of ​​implementing etiquette, asked them about the folk songs and the people's sufferings, and told them the way to eliminate hatred with harmony and love.
The elders all thought it was very beneficial and could be implemented, so they jointly agreed on the etiquette and levels of weddings and funerals, which were roughly based on ancient rituals and must not exceed legal limits.
Yanshou then ordered the officials and students of the liberal arts school to wear leather benches and hold ceremonial utensils such as beans in their hands to conduct funerals, weddings and other ceremonies for officials and people.
The people followed his teachings and abandoned the imitation civil and wooden carriages and horses used for funerals on the road.
A few years later, Yanshou was transferred to the post of prefect of Shujun. Huang Ba replaced Yanshou to govern Yingchuan. Huang Ba followed his method and thus Yingchuan was established!
Very stable. To extend life and serve as an official, he advocates etiquette and righteousness, and likes ancient teachings. He must hire local wise men wherever he goes, treat and appoint them according to etiquette, expand plans, and accept advice; he praises the behavior of giving up money in mourning, and commends filial piety and brotherhood; When repairing city walls and collecting taxes and rents, we must first make clear the date when the announcement will begin, and start taking action within the specified time limit. Officials and people will respect and abide by the regulations.
He also appointed the chief and the fifth chief as an example of filial piety and brotherhood, and did not tolerate treacherous people.
Once an accident occurs in Banli Qianbai, the officials will receive a report and the traitors will not dare to enter its territory.
This approach seemed very cumbersome at first, but later the officials did not have the trouble of chasing criminals, and the people did not have to worry about being punished, and they were all content with this kind of governance.
Yanshou treated his officials with great kindness and clear rules.
If someone cheats and betrays him, he will deeply blame himself: Did I betray him? Why did he do this?
When the officials heard this, they secretly regretted it. His county captain died of white thorns.
There was a robbery at the back door, but he was saved from death. As a result, he became mute and could not speak.
When Yanshou heard about this, he cried to Fu Shi and sent officials to treat him and take care of him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
延寿尝出，临上车，骑吏一人后至，敕功曹议罚白。
还至府门，门卒当车，愿有所言。
延寿止车问之，卒曰： 《孝经》曰： 资于事父以事君，而敬同，故母取其爱，而君取其敬，兼之者父也。
今旦明府早驾，久驻未出，骑吏父来至府门，不敢入。
骑吏闻之，趋走出谒，适会明府登车。
以敬父而见罚，得毋亏大化乎？
延寿举手舆中曰： 微子，太守不自知过。
归舍，召见门卒。
卒本诸生，闻延寿贤，无因自达，故代卒，延寿遂待用之。
其纳善听谏，皆此类也。
在东郡三岁，令行禁止，断狱大减，为天下最。
入守左冯翊，满岁称职为真。
岁余，不肯出行县。
丞掾数白： 宜循行郡中，览观民俗，考长吏治迹。
延寿曰： 县皆有贤令长，督邮分明善恶于外，行县恐无所益，重为烦忧。
丞掾皆以为方春月，可一出劝耕桑。
延寿不得已，行县至高陵，民有昆弟相与讼田自言，延寿大伤之，曰： 幸得备位，为郡表率，不能宣明教化，至令民有骨肉争讼，既伤风化，重使贤长吏、啬夫、三老、孝弟受其耻，咎在冯翊，当先退。
是日，移病不听事，因入卧传舍，闭阁思过。
一县莫知所为，令丞、啬夫、三老亦皆自系待罪。
于是讼者宗族传相责让，此两昆弟深自悔，皆自髡肉袒谢，愿以田相移，终死不敢复争。
延寿大喜，开阁延见，内酒肉与相对饮食，厉勉以意告乡部，有以表劝悔过从善之民。
延寿乃起听事，劳谢令丞以下，引见尉荐。
郡中歙然，莫不传相敕厉，不敢犯。
延寿恩信周遍二十四县，莫复以辞讼自言者。
推其至诚，吏民不忍欺绐。
translation: 
He graciously exempted his family from taxes and corvee. Yanshou was about to go out. Before he got on the carriage, an official on horseback arrived late. Yanshou asked the meritorious officials to decide on a crime to punish him.
When Yanshou returned to the gate of the mansion, the doorman blocked the car and had something to say.
Yanshou stopped the car and asked him, and the servant said: "The Book of Filial Piety" says: Serve the emperor in the same way as the father, and the respect is the same. Therefore, serving the mother is based on love, and serving the monarch is based on respect. Serving the father with both respect and love is used.
You were going out early this morning, but you stopped for a long time before you could go out. The cavalryman's father came to the door and didn't dare to go in.
When the cavalry officer heard about it, he ran out to see his father and happened to catch up with you about to get on the car.
Wouldn't it be detrimental to Dahua to be punished for respecting his father?
Yanshou raised his hands in the car and said, "If it weren't for you, I wouldn't know my mistake."
Return to the house and summon the servants.
The doorman was originally a disciple. He heard that Yanshou was a wise man, but there was no way to recommend him, so he worked as a doorman for others. Yanshou retained him.
Yanshou listens to well-intentioned advice, mostly like this.
Yanshou stayed in Dongjun for three years. He enforced orders and banned them, and the number of prison cases was greatly reduced. He was the best in the world.
Han Yanshou tried to appoint Zuo Fengyi, and a year later he was deemed competent and was actually appointed to his post.
After more than a year, he refused to go out to inspect various counties.
The prime minister reported many times: You should travel around the county, observe the folk customs, and examine the political achievements of the officials.
Yanshou said: Each county has a wise official. It is enough for the postal supervisor to distinguish good from evil outside the office. I am afraid that there is no benefit to the provinces and counties, but only more troubles.
The prime minister thought that it was spring and he could go out to encourage farmers.
Yanshou had no choice but to patrol the county when he arrived at Gaoling. There were brothers among the people who were arguing with each other over the farmland. They each reported to Yanshou. Yanshou was very sad and said: "I am lucky to get this position and set an example for the county. I can't declare the enlightenment, which causes the brothers and sisters among the people to sue each other. It not only hurts the customs and education, but also makes the wise chief officials, stingy husbands, three elders, and filial brothers suffer such humiliation. The fault lies with Feng Yi, and he should take the blame and resign."
On this day, he claimed to be ill and ignored official duties, so he went inside and lay down in the Chuanshe, closing the door and thinking about his mistakes.
No one in the county knew what he was doing, so the prime minister, the mistress, and the three elders all tied themselves up to await punishment.
So the litigants' clans blamed each other, and the two brothers deeply regretted it. They both shaved their heads and exposed their flesh to apologize, and were willing to transfer the land to each other and not dare to fight again until death.
Yanshou was very happy and opened the door to welcome them. He went inside and prepared wine and meat to eat and drink with them. He encouraged them and informed the local government office of his intention, in order to commend and persuade the people who were willing to repent and do good.
Yanshou then got up to deal with the affairs and thanked the palaces below Ling Cheng for meeting and comforting them.
From then on, the county and the county were in harmony, and they all encouraged each other and did not dare to break the law.
The reputation of extending life spans all twenty-four counties, and no one will sue each other with words.
Considering his sincerity, neither the officials nor the people could bear to deceive him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
延寿代萧望之为左冯翊，而望之迁御史大夫。
侍谒者福为望之道延寿在东郡时放散官钱千余万。
望之与丞相丙吉议，吉以为更大赦，不须考。
会御史当问东郡，望之因令并问之。
延寿闻知，即部吏案校望之在冯翊时廪牺官钱放散百余万。
廪牺吏掠治急，自引与望之为奸。
延寿劾奏，移殿门禁止望之。
望之自奏： 职在总领天下，闻事不敢不问，而为延寿所拘持。
上由是不直延寿，各令穷竟所考。
望之卒无事实，而望之遣御史案东郡，具得其事。
延寿在东郡时，试骑士，治饰兵车，画龙虎朱爵。
延寿衣黄纨方领，驾四马，傅总，建幢棨，植羽葆，鼓车歌车，功曹引车，皆驾四马，载棨戟。
五骑为伍，分左右部，军假司马、千人持幢旁毂。
歌者先居射室，望见延寿车，噭啕楚歌。
延寿坐射室，骑吏持戟夹陛列立，骑士从者带弓鞬罗后。
令骑士兵车四面营陈，被甲鞮■居马上，抱弩负籣。
又使骑士戏车弄马盗骖。
延寿又取官铜物，候月蚀铸作刀剑钩镡，放效尚方事。
及取官钱帛，私假徭使吏。
及治饰车甲三百万以上。
于是望之劾奏延寿上僣不道，又自称： 前为延寿所奏，今复举延寿罪，众庶皆以臣怀不正之心，侵冤延寿。
愿下丞相、中二千石、博士议其罪。
事下公卿，皆以延寿前既无状，后复诬诉典法大臣，欲以解罪，狡猾不道。
天子恶之，延寿竟坐弃市。
吏民数千人送至渭城，老小扶持车毂，争奏酒炙。
translation: 
Han Yanshou replaced Xiao Wangzhi as Zuo Fengyi, and Wangzhi was promoted to the imperial censor.
The waiter Fu told Wangzhi Yanshou to secretly distribute more than 10 million in official money in Dongjun.
Wangzhi discussed with Prime Minister Bingji. Bingji believed that it was an amnesty and there was no need to pursue it.
It happened that the censor was in Dongjun to investigate some matters, so Wangzhi asked him to inquire about this matter as well.
When Yanshou heard about it, he immediately arranged for his officials to investigate Wangzhi's case and found out that Feng Yi had lost more than one million yuan as an official.
The local official was tortured and interrogated urgently, and he confessed that he had committed adultery with Wang.
Yanshou petitioned for impeachment, hoping that the emperor would stop him.
Wang Zhi Chen Zhuo My duty is to monitor the whole country. I dare not not inquire about things when I hear them, but I was blocked by Yanshou.
Therefore, the emperor did not trust Han Yanshou and sent people to investigate and find out the facts.
Wangzhi's matter finally turned out to be untrue, and Wangzhi sent the censor to investigate in Shu County and found out everything about extending life.
When Yanshou was in Shujun, he took exams for knights, decorated military chariots, and painted dragons, tigers, and Zhujue.
Yanshou wears a square collar of yellow fine silk, drives four horses, carries a general, erects a pillar, puts feathers and feathers on the carriage, plays drums and songs in the carriage, and the meritorious officer guides the carriage. Each carriage has four horses and is loaded with barberry halberds.
There were five riders in a group, divided into two groups: the left and the right. The military fake Sima and Ganren followed the car with banners.
The singers entered the She Hall first, and when they saw the longevity car coming, they sang songs of Chu.
Yanshou sat in the shooting hall, and the horsemen stood along the steps holding halberds, and the accompanying knights stood behind with their bows and taros.
He ordered the soldiers on horseback to set up formations on all sides, wearing armor and wearing Qiandai on their horses, holding crossbows and carrying crossbows on their backs.
He also asked the knights to perform tricks such as chariots, horses and thieves.
Yanshou also used the government's copper utensils and waited until the lunar eclipse appeared to cast swords and hooks, following the practice of the emperor Shang Fangshu.
He also used government money and silk to privately hire petty officials to serve him.
and the purchase of decorative cars and armor worth more than three million.
So Xiao Wangshang impeached Han Yanshou for exceeding his authority and committing treason, and he defended himself by saying: "I was impeached by Yanshou not long ago, and now I have exposed Yanshou's crimes. Everyone thinks that I have evil intentions and bullied Yanshou unjustly."
I hope the prime minister, Zhong Erqianshi, and the doctor will come to terms with his charges.
The matter was reported to the ministers, who all thought that Yanshou had no achievements in the past. Later, he falsely accused the minister of Dianfa in order to get rid of the crime, which was cunning and cunning.
The emperor hated him, and Yanshou was finally found guilty and executed in the market.
Thousands of officials and people sent him to Weicheng. Old and young, holding on to the hub of the cart, competed to offer wine and barbecue. Yanshou couldn't bear to refuse. Everyone drank the wine, and he calculated that he could drink more than a stone.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
延寿不忍距逆，人人为饮，计饮酒石余，使掾史分谢送者： 远苦吏民，延寿死无所根。
百姓莫不流涕。
延寿三子皆为郎吏。
且死，属其子勿为吏，以己为戒。
子皆以父言去官不仕。
至孙威，乃复为吏至将军。
威亦多恩信，能拊众，得士死力。
威又坐奢亻朁诛，延寿之风类也。
张敞字子高，本河东平阳人也。
祖父孺为上谷太守，徙茂陵。
敞父福事孝武帝，官至光禄大夫。
敞后随宣帝徙杜陵。
敞本以乡有秩补太守卒史，察廉为甘泉仓长，稍迁太仆丞，杜延年甚奇之。
会昌邑王征即位，动作不由法度，敞上书谏曰： 孝昭皇帝蚤崩无嗣，大臣忧惧，选贤圣承宗庙，东迎之日，唯恐属车之行迟。
今天子以盛年初即位，天下莫不拭目倾耳，观化听风。
国辅大臣未褒，而昌邑小辇先迁，此过之大者也。
后十余日王贺废，敞以切谏显名，擢为豫州刺史。
以数上事有忠言，宣帝征敞为太中大夫，与于定国并平尚书事。
以正违忤大将军霍光，而使主兵车出军省减用度，复出为函谷关都尉。
宣帝初即位，废王贺在昌邑，上心惮之，徙敞为山阳太守。
久之，大将军霍光薨，宣帝始亲政事，封光兄孙山、云皆为列侯，以光子禹为大司马。
顷之，山、云以过归第，霍氏诸婿亲属颇出补吏。
敞闻之，上封事曰： 臣闻公子季友有功于鲁，大夫赵衰有功于晋，大夫田完有功于齐，皆畴其庸，延及子孙，终后田氏篡齐，赵氏分晋，季氏颛鲁。
故仲尼作《春秋》，迹盛衰，讥世卿最甚。
乃者大将军决大计，安宗庙，定天下，功亦不细矣。
夫周公七年耳，而大将军二十岁，海内之命，断于掌握。
方其隆时，感动天地，侵迫阴阳，月朓日蚀，昼冥宵光，地大震裂，火生地中，天文失度，袄祥变怪，不可胜记，皆阴类盛长，臣下颛制之所生也。
translation: 
He sent his ministers to pay homage to those who saw them off: "The hard-working officials and the people send each other off, and they live longer and die without regret."
All the people shed tears.
Han Yanshou's three sons all became Langguan.
When he was dying, he asked his son not to be an official, but to follow him as a warning.
His sons all obeyed their father's advice and resigned from office.
It was not until his grandson Han Wei that he became an official and became a general.
Han Wei is also very kind and loyal. He can win the support of everyone and his subordinates are willing to fight for him.
Han Wei was also convicted and killed for extravagance and arrogance. This is generally the case for longevity.
Zhang Chang, named Zigao, was originally from Pingyang, Hedong.
When his grandfather Zhang Ru was the governor of Shanggu, he moved to Maoling.
Zhang Chang's father, Zhang Fu, served Emperor Xiaowu and reached the rank of Doctor Guanglu.
Zhang Chang later moved to Duling with Emperor Xuan.
Zhang Chang was originally appointed as the governor's soldier with the title of "Xiang Youzhi". After passing the examination, he became the chief of Ganquan warehouse and was slightly promoted to the post of Taipusheng. Du Yannian thought that he was very unusual.
It happened that Liu He, the king of Changyi, came to the capital and ascended the throne. His behavior did not follow the law. Zhang Chang wrote a letter to admonish: Emperor Xiaozhao died early and had no heirs. The ministers were worried about this and chose virtuous and wise people to inherit the ancestral temple. They were afraid that the day of the eastward welcome would be too late.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne at the beginning of his prime, everyone in the world wipes his eyes and tilts his ears to observe the changes in customs and education.
The ministers of the auxiliary state have not yet praised him, but the minister who pulls the chariot for the king of Changyi is promoted first. This is a big mistake among mistakes.
Ten days later, Liu He, the king of Changyi, was deposed. Zhang Chang became famous for his direct advice and was promoted to the governor of Yuzhou.
Because he was loyal to his superiors many times, Emperor Xuan recruited him as Taizhong doctor to handle the affairs of the minister together with Yu Dingguo.
Because he had just arrested the general Huo Guang for disobeying him, he was asked to take charge of the military chariots and send troops to reduce costs, and he was appointed as the captain of Hangu Pass.
When Emperor Xuan first came to the throne, the deposed king Liu He lived in Changyi. The emperor was afraid of him and transferred Zhang Chang to be the governor of Shanyang.
After a long time, after the death of the general Huo Guang, Emperor Xuan took charge of political affairs personally. He named Huo Shan and Huo Yundu, the grandsons of Huo Guang's brother, as marquises, and made Huo Guang's son Huo Yu the chief minister.
Not long after, Huo Shan and Huo Yun were sent back to the mansion due to mistakes, and some relatives of the Huo family's son-in-law were appointed as replacement officials.
When Zhang Chang heard about this situation, he went to the imperial court and said: I heard that the prince Ji You contributed to Lu, the official Tsai failed to the Jin, and the official Tian Wan contributed to the Qi. Their kings all rewarded them with awards. In the end, the Tian family usurped Qi, the Tang family divided the Jin, and the Ji family had exclusive power in Lu.
Therefore, Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, which recorded the rise and fall of people, and was the most powerful in ridiculing the ministers.
In the past, the great general Huo Guang made great decisions about the country, stabilized the ancestral temple, and pacified the world. His achievements were not small.
The Duke of Zhou was in power for only seven years, while the general was in power for twenty years. All major domestic affairs were decided by him.
When his power was strong, the heaven and earth were shocked, Yin and Yang were at odds, there were eclipses of the sun and the moon, there was darkness in the day and light in the night, the earth cracked, fires were made in the ground, the celestial phenomena violated the rules, Aoxiang was weird and unforgettable, all because the Yin type was strong and the ministers had exclusive power.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
朝臣宜有明言，曰陛下褒宠故大将军以报功德足矣。
间者辅臣颛政，贵戚太盛，君臣之分不明，请罢霍氏三侯皆就第。
及卫将军张安世，宜赐几杖归林，时存问召见，以列侯为天子师。
明诏以恩不听，群臣以义固争而后许，天下必以陛下为不忘功德，而朝臣为知礼，霍氏世世无所患苦。
今朝廷不闻直声，而令明诏自亲其文，非策之得者也。
今两侯以出，人情不相远，以臣心度之，大司马及其枝属必有畏惧之心。
夫近臣自危，非完计也，臣敞愿于广朝白发其端，直守远郡，其路无由。
夫心之精微口不能言也，言之微眇书不能文也，故伊尹五就桀，五就汤，萧相国荐淮阴累岁乃得通，况乎千里之外，因书文谕事指哉！
唯陛下省察。
上甚善其计，然不征也。
久之，勃海、胶东盗贼并起，敞上书自请治之，曰： 臣闻忠孝之道，退家则尽心于亲，进宦则竭力于君。
夫小国中君犹有奋不顾身之臣，况于明天子乎！
今陛下游意于太平，劳精于政事，亹亹不舍昼夜。
群臣有司宜各竭力致身。
山阳郡户九万三千，口五十万以上，讫计盗贼未得者七十七人，它课诸事亦略如此。
臣敞愚驽，既无以佐思虑，久处闲郡，身逸乐而忘国事，非忠孝之节也。
伏闻胶东、勃海左右郡岁数不登，盗贼并起，至攻宫寺，篡囚徒，搜市朝，劫列侯。
吏失纲纪，奸轨不禁。
臣敞不敢爱身避死，唯明诏之所处，愿尽力摧挫其暴虐，存抚其孤弱。
事即有业，所至郡条奏其所由废及所以兴之状。
书奏，天子征敞，拜胶东相，赐黄金三十斤。
translation: 
The courtiers should make it clear that it is enough for Your Majesty to praise and favor the former general in order to repay his merits.
Recently, the auxiliary ministers have been dictatorial, the nobles have become too powerful, and the status of monarch and ministers is not clear. Please remove the three princes of the Huo family and let them return to the mansion.
As for General Zhang Anshi of the Wei, he should be given a few sticks to let him retreat, greet and summon him from time to time, and regard the princes as the emperor's teachers.
It is clear that Shao offered favors but refused to listen, and the ministers fought for morality before granting permission. People in the world must think that Your Majesty has not forgotten the merits of the Huo family, and that the courtiers understand etiquette and justice, so that the Huo family will have no worries and hardships in the world.
Nowadays, the voice of direct remonstrance cannot be heard in the court, and edicts are issued alone. This is not a good strategy.
Now that the two princes have left the capital, human nature will not alienate them. Based on my thoughts, Da Sima and his relatives must be afraid.
The ministers themselves felt in danger, and this was not a good plan. The minister Zhang Chang was willing to stir up trouble in the Manchu Dynasty, but he was on duty in a remote county, so he had no chance.
The subtleties of thoughts cannot be explained clearly by mouth, and the subtleties of words cannot be explained clearly by writing. Therefore, Yiyin was recommended to Jie five times and served Tang five times.
I hope your Majesty will understand.
The emperor admired his strategy very much, but did not recruit him.
After a long time, many robberies occurred in Bohai and Miaoliang areas, and thieves and thieves started to cause harm. Zhang Chang wrote a letter asking for him to be in charge, saying: I heard that the principle of loyalty and filial piety is that at home, you should serve your parents with all your heart, and as an official, you should serve the monarch with all your heart.
The monarchs of those small countries still have ministers who do not care about their own safety, not to mention the wise emperor!
Now Your Majesty is devoted to the peace of the world, busy with political affairs, and diligent day and night.
All ministers should perform their duties to the best of their ability.
The Shanyang County under my jurisdiction has 93,000 households and a population of more than 500,000. There are a total of 77 thieves who have not been arrested. The assessment of other taxation and government affairs is roughly the same.
The minister Zhang Chang is stupid. Since he is unable to alleviate the emperor's worries, he has been living in a peaceful state and county for a long time. He has been enjoying himself and forgetting the state affairs. This is not the integrity of loyalty and filial piety.
It is said that the crops in Miaojie and Bohai counties have been poor for many years, and thieves have appeared together. They have attacked government offices, robbed prisoners, searched exchanges, and kidnapped princes.
Officials lose the restraint of laws and regulations, and traitors cannot stop them from breaking the law and causing chaos.
The minister Zhang Chang did not dare to cherish his life and avoid death. He hoped that Sheng Shao would make it clear that he was willing to do his best to destroy and thwart the thieves' tyranny, and to visit and care for those who were lonely and weak.
When everything is in its proper place, each county will be given a report stating the reasons for its prosperity and failure.
After the memorial was sent to the emperor, the emperor summoned Zhang Chang, appointed him as prime minister, and gave him thirty kilograms of gold.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
敞辞之官，自请治剧郡非赏罚无以劝善惩恶，吏追捕有功效者，愿得一切比三辅尤异。
天子许之。
敞到胶东，明设购赏，开群盗令相捕斩除罪。
吏追捕有功，上名尚书调补县令者数十人。
由是盗贼解散，传相捕斩。
吏民歙然，国中遂平。
居顷之，王太后数出游猎，敞奏书谏曰： 臣闻秦王好淫声，叶阳后为不听郑、卫之乐；楚严好田猎，樊姬为不食鸟兽之肉。
口非恶旨甘，耳非憎丝竹也，所以抑心意，绝耆欲者，将以率二君而全宗祀也。
礼，君母出门则乘辎軿，下堂则从傅母，进退则鸣玉佩，内饰则结绸缪。
此言尊贵所以自敛制，不从恣之义也。
今太后资质淑美，慈爱宽仁，诸侯莫不闻，而少以田猎纵欲为名，于以上闻，亦未宜也。
唯观览于往古，全行乎来今，令后姬得有所法则，下臣有所称诵，臣敞幸甚！
书奏，太后止不复出。
是时，颍川太守黄霸以治行第一入守京兆尹。
霸视事数月，不称，罢归颖川。
于是制诏御史： 其以胶东相敞守京兆尹。
自赵广汉诛后，比更守尹，如霸等数人，皆不称职。
京师浸废，长安市偷盗尤多，百贾苦之。
上以问敞，敞以为可禁。
敞既视事，求问长安父老，偷盗酋长数人，居皆温厚，出从童骑，闾里以为长者。
敞皆召见责问，因贳其罪，把其宿负，令致诸偷以自赎。
偷长曰： 今一旦召诣府，恐诸偷惊骇，愿一切受署。
敞皆以为吏，遣归休。
置酒，小偷悉来贺，且饮醉，偷长以赭污其衣裾。
吏坐里闾阅出者，污赭辄收缚之，一日捕得数百人。
translation: 
Zhang Chang left for his post and proposed to the emperor that heavy rewards and heavy punishments must be used to manage these difficult places. If the officials had merit in hunting down the thieves, he requested that they be given greater authority than the three assistants in the capital.
The emperor approved the request.
After Zhang Chang arrived at the micelles, he publicly offered a reward for the capture of the thieves, and divided the group of thieves into capturing and killing each other to alleviate their crimes.
Those officials who had made meritorious deeds in hunting down thieves reported to the Minister of Ming Dynasty and transferred dozens of people to the county magistrate.
So the thieves dispersed and were captured and killed.
The officials and people respected him, and the country settled down.
Soon after, the Queen Mother went out hunting many times. Zhang Chang wrote a letter to remonstrate: I heard that the King of Qin liked obscene sounds, so Empress Ye Yang did not listen to Zheng Wei's music, King Zhuang of Chu liked hunting, and Fan Ji did not eat the meat of birds and beasts.
It is not that they hate sweet food in their hearts or hate the sound of silk and bamboo in their ears. The reason why they suppress their desires and put an end to cravings is to set an example for the two monarchs and preserve the ancestral temple and the country.
According to the etiquette, the king's mother should ride in a clothes carriage when going out, her mother Fu should follow her when she descends to the hall, wear a jade pendant when advancing or retreating, and tie her undergarments tightly.
This is about how noble people can control themselves and not indulge in wantonness.
Nowadays, the Queen Mother is virtuous, beautiful, kind and generous, and everyone among the princes has heard of her. However, she has a slight reputation for hunting in the fields and indulge in sexual pleasures. This is not suitable for the emperor to hear.
I hope you can observe ancient events and perfect today's behavior so that the concubines will have rules for action and your ministers will have information to praise. I, Zhang Chang, will be honored!
After the memorial came in, the Queen Mother stopped hunting and no longer went out.
At this time, Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan, was transferred to Beijing to try to be appointed as Jing Zhaoyin because of his first political performance.
Huang Ba was in charge of the affairs for several months but was not competent, so he still returned to serve as the prefect of Yingchuan.
So the emperor ordered the censor: Zhang Chang, the Prime Minister of Jiaodong, was to be tested as Jing Zhaoyin.
Since Zhao Guanghan was executed, Jing Zhaoyin has been replaced frequently, and many people, such as Huang Ba, are incompetent.
The social security in the capital gradually relaxed, and thefts in Chang'an City were particularly frequent, which made merchants very distressed.
The emperor asked Zhang Chang about this situation, and Zhang Chang thought it could be banned.
After Zhang Chang took office, he visited and asked the elders of Chang'an. Several thieves' leaders lived in affluent households, and they were accompanied by slave boys on horseback when they went out. They were regarded as leaders in the village.
Zhang Chang summoned them all for interrogation, and did not punish them for their crimes for the time being. He seized on their past handles and asked them to attract thieves to redeem themselves.
The leader of the thieves said: Now if we call them to the government, I am afraid they will be surprised and frightened, and hope that we can be temporarily appointed to official positions.
Zhang Chang made them all minor officials and sent them back to rest.
The leader prepared a banquet, and the thieves all came to congratulate them. When they were about to get drunk, the leader of the thieves stained their clothes with terracotta soil.
The officials sat by the inner gate and checked the people who came out. Those who were stained with red soil were detained, and hundreds of people were arrested in one day.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
穷治所犯，或一人百余发，尽行法罚。
由是枹鼓稀鸣，市无偷盗，天子嘉之。
敞为人敏疾，赏罚分明，见恶辄取，时时越法纵舍，有足大者。
其治京兆，略循赵广汉之迹。
方略耳目，发伏禁奸，不如广汉，然敞本治《春秋》，以经术自辅，其政颇杂儒雅，往往表贤显善，不醇用诛罚，以此能自全，竟免于刑戮。
京兆典京师，长安中浩穰，于三辅尤为剧。
郡国二千石以高弟入守，及为真，久者不过二三年，近者数月一岁，辄毁伤失名，以罪过罢。
唯广汉及敞为久任职。
敞为京兆，朝廷每有大议，引古今，处便宜，公卿皆服，天子数从之。
然敞无威仪，时罢朝会，过走马章台街，使御吏驱，自以便面拊马。
又为妇画眉，长安中传张京兆眉怃。
有司以奏敞。
上问之，对曰： 臣闻闺房之内，夫妇之私，有过于画眉者。
上爱其能，弗备责也。
然终不得大位。
敞与萧望之、于定国相善。
始敞与定国俱以谏昌邑王超迁。
定国为大夫平尚书事，敞出为刺史，时望之为大行丞。
后望之先至御史大夫，定国后至丞相，敞终不过郡守。
为京兆九岁，坐与光禄勋杨惲厚善，后惲坐大逆诛，公卿奏惲党友，不宜处位，等比皆免，而敞奏独寝不下。
敞使贼捕掾絮舜有所案验。
舜以敞劾奏当免，不肯为敞竟事，私归其家。
人或谏舜，舜曰： 吾为是公尽力多矣，今五日京兆耳，安能复案事？
敞闻舜语，即部吏收舜系狱。
translation: 
Taking a closer look at the cases they have committed, some individuals have more than 100 cases, and they are all punished according to law.
From then on, the sound of drumming and checking the clock became less frequent, there were no more thieves in the market, and the emperor rewarded him.
Zhang Chang was smart and witty, with a clear sense of rewards and punishments. He would arrest evildoers when he saw them, but he also often treated prisoners leniently without following the law, which is very commendable.
He governed Jingzhao and generally followed Zhao Guanghan's methods.
His methods, strategies and level of insight in exposing hidden adultery were not as good as those in Guanghan. However, Zhang Chang originally studied "Spring and Autumn" and was based on classics. His governance was mostly mixed with elements of elegance. He often praised the virtuous and showed good deeds, and did not use punishment. He also preserved himself and was eventually saved from being killed.
Jing Zhaoyin manages the public security of the capital. There are many people in Chang'an, especially the three assistants.
Two thousand officials from the county came to the capital for trial with excellent political performance. After they were transferred to full-time positions, they would only last for two or three years, or as short as a few months or a year, and their reputations would be ruined and they would be dismissed for their crimes.
Only Guang Han and Zhang Chang served for a long time.
Zhang Chang served as Jingzhao Yin. Whenever the court had important matters to discuss, he would quote the past and the present and deal with them appropriately. The ministers all admired him, and the emperor listened to his opinions many times.
However, Zhang Chang was not dignified. Sometimes he would just go to court and ride through Zhangtai Street. He would ask the officials to drive the horses while he would cover his face and pat the horses as he passed.
He also gave his wife thrush. According to legend in Chang'an, Zhang Jingzhao's thrush was very charming.
Some officials used this to impeach Zhang Chang.
The emperor asked him, and Zhang Chang replied: I heard that in the boudoir, there are couples who have more love than a thrush.
The emperor cherished his talents and did not blame him.
But he never got a high official position.
Zhang Chang was good friends with Xiao Wangzhi and Yu Dingguo.
Initially, both Zhang Chang and Yu Dingguo were promoted because they advised the king of Changyi.
Dingguo was appointed as the official secretary of Ping Dynasty, and Zhang Chang was appointed as the governor of the capital. At that time, he was expected to be appointed as the Daxing Cheng.
Later, Wangzhi was promoted to the imperial censor first, and then to the prime minister after establishing the country. Zhang Chang has always been the county governor.
Zhang Chang served as Jingzhao Yin for nine years. He had a close relationship with Guang Luxun Yang Tan. Later, Yang Tan was executed for treason. The minister reported that Zhang Chang was a confederate of Yang Tan and should not be appointed as an official. According to the same rule, he would be dismissed from office. However, the memorial to Zhang Chang was never issued.
Zhang Chang sent thieves to arrest Xu Shun to investigate the case.
Because Zhang Chang was impeached and should be removed from office, Xu Shun refused to finish the job for Zhang Chang and returned home privately.
Someone advised Xu Shun, and Xu Shun said: I have done a lot for this gentleman, but now he can only do the Jingzhao for five more days. Where can he handle the case again?
Zhang Chang heard about Xu Shun's words and immediately sent officers to arrest Xu Shun and imprison him.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是时，冬月未尽数日，案事吏昼夜验治舜，竟致其死事。
舜当出死，敞使主簿持教告舜曰： 五日京兆竟何如？
冬月已尽，延命乎？
乃弃舜市。
会立春，行冤狱使者出，舜家载尸，并编敞教，自言使者。
使者奏敞贼杀不辜。天子薄其罪，欲令敞得自便利，即先下敞前坐杨惲不宜处位奏，免为庶人。
敞免奏既下，诣阙上印绶，便从阙下亡命。
数月，京师吏民解弛，枹鼓数起，而翼州部中有大贼。
天子思敞功效，使使者即家在所召敞。
敞身被重劾，及使者至，妻子家室皆泣惶惧，而敞独笑曰： 吾身亡命为民，郡吏当就捕，今使者来，此天子欲用我也。
即装随使者诣公车上书曰： 臣前幸得备位列卿，待罪京兆，坐杀贼捕掾絮舜。
舜本臣敞素所厚吏，数蒙恩贷，以臣有章劾当免，受记考事，便归卧家，谓臣 五日京兆 ，背恩忘义，伤化薄俗。
臣窃以舜无状，枉法以诛之。
臣敞贼杀无辜，鞠狱故不直，虽伏明法，死无所恨。
天子引见敞，拜为冀州刺史。
敞起亡命，复奉使典州。
既到部，而广川王国群辈不道，贼连发，不得。
敞以耳目发起贼主名区处，诛其渠帅。
广川王姬昆弟及王同族宗室刘调等通行为之囊橐，吏逐捕穷窘，踪迹皆入王宫。
敞自将郡国吏，车数百辆，围守王宫，搜索调等，果得之殿屋重轑中。
敞傅吏皆捕格断头，县其头王宫门外。因劾奏广川王。
天子不忍致法，削其户。
敞居部岁余，冀州盗贼禁止。
守太原太守，满岁为真，太原郡清。
顷之，宣帝崩。
元帝初即位，待诏郑朋荐敞先帝名臣，宜傅辅皇太子。
上以问前将军萧望之，望之以为敞能吏，任治烦乱，材轻，非师傅之器。
天子使使者征敞，欲以为左冯翊。
会病卒。
敞所诛杀太原吏，吏家怨敞，随至杜陵刺杀敞中子璜。
敞三子官皆至都尉。
初，敞为京兆尹，而敞弟武拜为梁相。
是时，梁王骄贵，民多豪强，号为难治。
敞问武： 欲何以治梁？
武敬惮兄，谦不肯言。
敞使吏送至关，戒吏自问武。
武应曰： 驭黠马者利其衔策，梁国大都，吏民凋敝，且当以柱后惠文弹治之耳。
秦时狱法吏冠柱后惠文，武意欲以刑法治梁。
吏还道之，敞笑曰： 审如掾言，武必辨治梁矣。
武既到官，其治有迹，亦能吏也。
敞孙竦，王莽时至郡守，封侯，博学文雅过于敞，然政事不及也。
竦死，敞无后。
王尊字子赣，涿郡高阳人也。
translation: 
At this time, only a few days had passed in the winter months. The officials handling the case dealt with Xu Shun's case day and night, and finally sentenced him to death.
Xu Shun was about to go out to receive the death penalty. Zhang Chang sent the chief clerk to tell Xu Shun with a proclamation: What will the Beijing omen be like on the fifth day?
The winter months have passed, don’t you want to extend your life?
So he killed Xu Shun in the market.
At the beginning of spring, the messenger who had been wrongly imprisoned was traveling. Xu Shun's family carried his body, compiled Zhang Chang's proclamation, and filed a lawsuit against the messenger in person.
The envoy sent a memorial to Zhang Chang to kill innocent people. The emperor believed that his crime was very minor and wanted to exempt Zhang Chang from punishment. He first approved Zhang Chang's previous memorial that he should not be an official because of Yang Zang's crime, so that he could be exempted from being a commoner.
After the memorial for his dismissal was issued, Zhang Chang went to the palace to hand over his seal and ribbon, and then fled for his life under the palace palace.
After several months of encounters, the officials and people in the capital became lax, the alarm drums sounded frequently again, and thieves appeared in the Jizhou official offices.
The emperor remembered Zhang Chang's achievements in governance and sent envoys to his residence to recruit him.
Zhang Chang was severely impeached. When the envoy arrived, his wife and family were crying and frightened, but Zhang Chang simply smiled and said: I am already a fugitive, and the county officials are here to arrest me. Now that the envoy is here, the emperor wants to use me.
Immediately dressed up and followed the envoy to the bus, he wrote a letter saying: I was once fortunate enough to be a minister, but I was awaiting trial in Jingzhao. I was convicted of killing a thief and capturing Xu Shun.
Xu Shun was originally a minor official who was treated kindly by his minister Zhang Changhu. He had been favored and treated leniently many times.
In private, I used the law to execute Xu Shun in vain because of his unspeakable crimes.
The minister Zhang Chang killed innocent people, and the trial was intentionally unfair. Although he was punished by the law of the Ming Dynasty, he still died without complaint.
The emperor summoned Zhang Chang and appointed him as the governor of Jizhou.
Zhang Chang was appointed from exile and sent as an envoy to manage a state.
Zhang Chang arrived at the official office, but everyone in the Guangchuan Kingdom was unjust and rebellions broke out one after another, but he could not be captured.
Zhang Chang sent his spies to find out the names and residences of the rebel leaders, and killed their leaders.
The brothers of Wang Ji of Guangchuan and Liu Tiao, a member of the king's clan, usually protected them. The officials hunted them down until the end, and all traces of the rebels entered the palace.
Zhang Chang personally led the officials of the county and drove hundreds of vehicles to surround the palace and search for Liu Tiao and others. Sure enough, they were found among the heavy rafters of the palace.
Zhang Chang personally supervised the officials to kill them, cut off their heads, and hung them in the palace, so he impeached King Guangchuan.
The emperor could not bear to subject him to legal punishment and deprived him of his title.
Zhang Chang was in the official office for more than a year, and the thieves in Jizhou stopped him.
He was also tried as the governor of Taiyuan, and after one year he was promoted to full-time official, which brought stability to Taiyuan County.
Soon, Emperor Xuan died.
Emperor Yuan had just ascended the throne and was waiting for an edict. Zheng Peng recommended Zhang Chang as a famous minister of the late emperor and the most suitable teacher for the crown prince.
The emperor asked former general Xiao Wangzhi about this matter. Wangzhi believed that Zhang Chang was a capable official who was qualified to govern troubles, and that his frivolous qualifications were not suitable for being a master.
The emperor sent an envoy to recruit Zhang Chang, hoping to make him Zuo Fengyi.
It happened that Zhang Chang died of illness.
The family of the Taiyuan official whom Zhang Chang killed hated Zhang Chang and followed him to Duling to assassinate his second son Zhang Huang.
Zhang Chang's three sons all rose to the rank of captain.
At the beginning, Zhang Chang was appointed as Jing Zhaoyin, and his younger brother Zhang Wu was appointed as Liang's prime minister.
At that time, the king of Liang was arrogant and the people were so powerful that it was said to be difficult to govern.
Zhang Chang asked Zhang Wu: How do you want to govern Liang?
Zhang Wu was afraid of his elder brother and was too humble to say anything.
Zhang Chang sent officials to escort him to the pass and asked the officials to ask Zhang Wu themselves.
Zhang Wu replied: Those who drive cunning horses are good at using horse bits and whips. Liang is a big city and the officials and people are in decline. It is appropriate to use Zhu Huiwen to suppress and govern them.
During the Qin Dynasty, the prison official Dai Zhuhou Huiwen and Zhang Wu meant to manage Liang with criminal law.
When the officials came back and said these words, Zhang Chang smiled and said: "It is indeed like what Chu said, Zhang Wu will definitely manage Liang well."
When Zhang Wu reached the official position, he was very successful in governing and was also a capable official.
Zhang Chang's grandson, Zhang Chang, was the governor of the county during Wang Mang's reign, and was granted the title of marquis. He was more knowledgeable and elegant than Zhang Chang, but he was not as good as him in handling political affairs.
After Zhang Chang died, Zhang Chang had no descendants.
Wang Zun, whose courtesy name was Zigan, was from Gaoyang, Zhuo County.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
少孤，归诸父，使牧羊泽中。
尊窃学问，能史书。
年十三，求为狱小吏。
数岁，给事太守府，问诏书行事，尊无不对。
太守奇之，除补书佐，署守属监狱。
久之，尊称病去，事师郡文学官，治《尚书》、《论语》，略通大义。
复召署守属治狱，为郡决曹史。
数岁，以令举幽州刺史从事。
而太守察尊廉，补辽西盐官长。
数上书言便言事，事下丞相、御史。
初元中，举直言，迁虢令，转守槐里，兼行美阳令事。
春正月，美阳女子告假子不孝，曰： 儿常以我为妻，妒笞我。
尊闻之，遣吏收捕验问，辞服。
尊曰： 律无妻母之法，圣人所不忍书，此经所谓造狱者也。
尊于是出坐廷上，取不孝子悬磔著树，使骑吏五人张弓射杀之，吏民惊骇。
后上行幸雍，过虢，尊供张如法而办。以高弟擢为安定太守。
到官，出教告属县曰： 令长丞尉奉法守城，为民父母，抑强扶弱，宣恩广泽，甚劳苦矣。
太守以今日至府，愿诸君卿勉力正身以率下。
故行贪鄙，能变更者与为治。
明慎所职，毋以身试法。
又出教敕掾功曹 各自厎厉，助太守为治。
其不中用，趣自避退，毋久妨贤。
夫羽翮不修，则不可以致千里；闑内不理，无以整外。
府丞悉署吏行能，分别白之。
贤为上，毋以富。
贾人百万，不足与计事。
translation: 
He lost his father when he was young, so he joined his father and let him shepherd sheep in the swamp.
Wang Zun studied privately and could write official script.
When he was thirteen, he asked to be made a prison clerk.
A few years later, while serving in the prefect's mansion, he was asked about edicts and past events, and he couldn't answer them all.
The prefect thought that he was unusual and appointed him as Shu Zuo, in charge of prison inmates.
Soon after, Wang Zun resigned from his post claiming to be ill, and served the county literary officials as a teacher. He studied "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" and roughly understood their meaning.
He was also called to be in charge of prison affairs and served as the county's chief minister.
After a few years of encountering him, he became the governor of Youzhou due to the recommendation of the prefect.
The prefect inspected Wang Zun's integrity and appointed him as the salt officer of western Liaoning.
Wang Zun wrote many times to suggest things that were beneficial to the country, and the matter was handed over to the Prime Minister and Censor.
In the early Yuan Dynasty, Wang Zun was elected as Zhiyan and promoted to the magistrate of Guo County. He was transferred to manage Huaili and was also responsible for the duties of Meiyang Shouling.
In the first month of spring, a woman in Meiyang accused her adopted son of being unfilial, saying: "My adopted son often takes me as his wife, but he whips me out of jealousy."
Wang Zun heard about it and sent officers to arrest him and interrogate him to confirm. They all confessed.
Wang Zun said: There are no laws about wives and mothers. The sages could not bear to write them, so they created the laws that create killings as mentioned in the scriptures.
Wang Zun then came out and sat in the court, hung the unfilial son on a tree to punish him, and ordered five horse-riding officials to shoot him with their bows. The officials and the people were horrified.
Later, the emperor visited Yong County and passed through Guo County. Wang Zun purchased curtains and other daily necessities in accordance with the regulations, and was promoted to the prefect of Anding with a high rank.
When Wang Zun took office, he issued a notice to the counties: "It is very hard work for the commander and the lieutenant to guard the county in accordance with the law, to be the parents and officials of the people, to suppress the powerful and support the poor and the weak, and to publicize and promote the grace of the emperor."
The prefect came to the government today and hoped that all the gentlemen would work hard to correct themselves and set an example for the people.
Those who have been greedy and despicable in the past can change their behavior and work together with the governor.
You must know how to treat your duties carefully and do not try to judge the law by yourself.
He also issued a notice to the meritorious officials and Cao Cao to try their best to help the prefect manage political affairs.
Those who are useless should quickly retreat in vain, and don't always hinder the talented people from displaying their talents.
If the feathers are not trimmed, they will not be able to fly thousands of miles; if the affairs within the door are not managed well, the affairs outside will not be managed.
The Fu Cheng recorded the conduct and talents of the officials and distinguished them clearly.
Those who are talented should be chosen first, and those who are rich should not be taken away from others.
A businessman with millions of dollars is not enough to discuss political affairs with him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
昔孔子治鲁，七日诛少正卯，今太守视事已一月矣，五月掾张辅怀虎狼之心，贪污不轨，一郡之钱尽入辅家，然适足以葬矣。
今将辅送狱，直符吏诣阁下，从太守受其事。
丞戒之戒之！相随入狱矣！
辅系狱数日死，尽得其狡猾不道，百万奸臧。
威震郡中，盗贼分散，入傍郡界。
豪强多诛伤伏辜者。
坐残贼免。
起家，复为护羌将军转校尉，护送军粮委输。
而羌人反，绝转道，兵数万围尊。
尊以千余骑奔突羌贼。
功未列上，坐擅离部署，会赦，免归家。
涿郡太守徐明荐尊不宜久在闾巷，上以尊为郿令，迁益州刺史。
先是。琅邪王阳为益州刺史，行部至邛郲九折阪，叹曰： 奉先人遗体，奈何数乘此险！
后以病去。
及尊为刺史，至其阪，问吏曰： 此非王阳所畏道耶？
吏对曰： 是。
尊叱其驭曰： 驱之！
王阳为孝子，王尊为忠臣。
尊居部二岁，怀来徼外，蛮夷归附其威信。
博士郑宽中使行风俗，举奏尊治状，迁为东平相。
是时，东平王以至亲骄奢不奉法度，傅相连坐。
及尊视事，奉玺书至庭中，王未及出受诏，尊持玺书归舍，食已乃还。
致诏后，竭见王，太傅在前说《相鼠》之诗。
尊曰： 毋持布鼓过雷门！
王怒，起入后宫。尊亦直趋出就舍。
先是，王数私出入，驱驰国中，与后姬家交通。
尊到官。召敕厩长： 大王当从官属，鸣和鸾乃出，自今有令驾小车，叩头争之，言相教不得。
后尊朝王，王复延请登堂。
尊谓王曰： 尊来为相，人皆吊尊也，以尊不容朝廷，故见使相王耳。
translation: 
In the past, when Confucius was in charge of Lu, he killed Shaozhengmao just seven days after taking office. Now that he has been in office for a month, Zhang Fu, who has five sense organs, has the heart of a tiger and a wolf, is corrupt and does not abide by the law, and all the wealth of the county has gone into his family. Mao is just enough to kill him.
Now send Zhang Fu to prison, and Zhi Fu Shi will come to the door and follow the prefect to handle the matter.
The Prime Minister must take Zhang Fu as a warning! Don't let him go to jail!
Zhang Fu died after being detained in prison for a few days. The government found out that he was cunning and had millions of illicit wealth.
The king's power shocked the county, and the thieves scattered and settled on the borders of the county.
Many powerful people were killed, tortured, injured and brought to justice.
Wang Zun was dismissed from office because he killed too many people.
Wang Zun was summoned to take up an official position, and he also served as a lieutenant in charge of transportation affairs under the General's Department of Protecting Qiang, escorting the transportation of military rations.
However, the Qiang people rebelled, cutting off the transshipment route, and tens of thousands of soldiers besieged Wang Zun.
Wang Zun rushed out with more than a thousand cavalry to break through the Qiang thieves.
His merits were not reported to the emperor, but he was convicted of leaving his deployment without permission. At the time of the pardon order, he was dismissed from office and returned home.
Xu Ming, the prefect of Zhuo County, recommended Wang Zun and believed that he should not live idle in the alleys for a long time. The emperor appointed Wang Zun as the magistrate of Yun County and was promoted to the governor of Yizhou.
At first, Wang Yang of Langxie was the governor of Yizhou, and he patrolled his subordinates to Jiuzheban in Qiongsu. He sighed: "I have given you a body in honor of my ancestors, how come I have been in such dangerous situations so many times!"
Later he resigned due to illness.
When Wang Zun became the governor, he arrived at that bank and asked the officials: Isn't this the dangerous route that Wang Yang is afraid of?
The official replied: Yes.
Wang Zun scolded his horse and said: "Run forward!"
Wang Yang is a filial son, and Wang Zun is a loyal minister.
Wang Zun was deployed for two years to appease the newcomers and inspect distant lands, and the barbarians surrendered to his authority.
Dr. Zheng Kuanzhong went on a mission to inspect customs, wrote a letter listing Wang Zun's political situation, and promoted him to Dongping Prime Minister.
At this time, King Shuping was arrogant and extravagant and did not abide by the law because he was a close relative. For this reason, Prime Minister Fu was convicted one after another.
When Wang Zun came to take office, he went to the courtyard with the seal in his hands. Before the king could come out to accept the edict, Wang Man took the seal back to his residence and came back after dinner.
After Wang Zun conveyed the emperor's order, he paid homage to King Shuping, and the Taifu said the poem "Xiang Mouse" in front of him.
Wang Zun said: Don't pass the Thunder Gate with a cloth drum!
The king got angry and got up and went into the harem. Wang Zun also quickly came out and returned to his residence.
At first, Wang went in and out privately many times, traveled around the country, and interacted with Hou Ji at her home.
After Wang Zun took office, he summoned the stable master and gave instructions: Your Majesty should be accompanied by his subordinates and ring the bell before going out. From today on, Your Majesty has been ordered to drive out in a cart. You must kowtow to him and tell him that he cannot do this.
Later, Wang Zun went to see King Sai, and the king invited him to the court again.
Wang Zun said to the king: I came to be the prime minister, and everyone came to mourn me. They thought that I was not tolerated by the court, so I was sent to assist the king.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
天下皆言王勇，顾但负责，安能勇？
如尊乃勇耳。
王变色视尊，意欲格杀之，即好谓尊曰： 愿观相君佩刀。
尊举掖，顾谓傍侍郎： 前引佩刀视王，王欲诬相拔刀向王邪？
王情得，又雅闻尊高名，大为尊屈，酌酒具食，相对极欢。
太后徵史奏尊： 为相倨慢不臣，王血气未定，不能忍。
愚诚恐母子俱死。
今妾不得使王复见尊。
陛下不留意，妾愿先自杀，不忍见王之失义也。
尊竟坐免为庶人。
大将军王凤奏请尊补军中司马，擢为司隶校尉。
初，中书谒者令石显贵幸，专权为奸邪。
丞相匡衡、御史大夫张谭皆阿附畏事显，不敢言。
久之，元帝崩，成帝初即位，显徙为中太仆，不复典权。
衡、谭乃奏显旧恶，请免显等。
尊于是劾奏： 丞相衡、御史大夫谭位三公，典五常九德，以总方略、一统类、广教化、美风俗为职。
知中书谒者令显等专权擅势，大作威福，纵恣不制，无所畏忌，为海内患害，不以时白奏行罚，而阿谀曲从，附下罔上，怀邪迷国，无大臣辅政之义也，皆不道，在赦令前。
赦后，衡、谭举奏显，不自陈不忠之罪，而反扬著先帝任用倾覆之徒，妄言百官畏之。甚于主上。
卑君尊臣，非所宜称，失大臣体。
又正月行幸典台，临飨罢卫士，衡与中二千石大鸿胪赏等会坐殿门下，衡南乡，赏等西乡。
衡更为赏布东乡席，起立延赏坐，私语如食顷。
衡知行临，百官共职，万众会聚，而设不正之席，使下坐上，相比为小惠于公门之下，动不中礼，乱朝廷爵秩之位。
衡又使官大奴入殿中，问行起居，还言： 漏上十四刻行。 临到，衡安坐，不变色改容。无怵惕肃敬之心，骄慢不谨，皆不敬。
translation: 
People all over the world say that the king is courageous and his attachment depends on wealth and honor. How can he be courageous?
That's how courageous I am.
The king's face changed slightly and he looked at Wang Zun, wanting to kill him in his heart. He immediately said to Wang Zun, Shanyan: I want to see your sword.
Wang Zun raised his arm, turned around and said to the servant nearby: "Come forward and show the king the sword. Does the king want to frame me for drawing the sword against the king?"
This is exactly what Wang intended. He also heard the name of Wang Zun, so he condescended to him and bought food and wine for him. He was very friendly to have a banquet with him.
The Empress Dowager's Report on the Campaign: The king's arrogance and arrogance as prime minister are inconsistent with the way of a minister. The king's temperament has not yet been determined and cannot be tolerated.
I'm really afraid that both mother and son will die from this.
Now I won't let the king see Wang Zun again.
If your majesty doesn't take it to heart, I will commit suicide first. I can't bear to see the king lose his morality.
Wang Zun was finally acquitted and became a commoner.
General Wang Feng wrote a letter requesting Wang Zunbu to be appointed Sima in the army and promoted to Sili Xiaowei.
At the beginning, Zhongshu Yezhe Ling Shi Xian was respected by the emperor and favored by the emperor. He specialized in power and did evil things.
Prime Minister Kuang Heng and imperial censor Zhang Tan both served Shi Xian respectfully and did not dare to say much.
After some time, Emperor Yuan died and Emperor Cheng just ascended the throne. Shi Xian was transferred to the position of Zhong Tai servant and no longer held power.
Kuang Heng and Zhang Tancai reported Shi Xian's past evil deeds and requested that Shi Xian be demoted.
Wang Zun then impeached him and said: Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Yushi doctor Zhang Tan are the three public officials. They are in charge of the Wuchang and Nine Virtues. They have the responsibility of directing policies and strategies, unifying the program, broadcasting political and religious trends, and praising customs.
Knowing that Zhongshu Ye ordered Shi Xian and others to monopolize their power, exercise great power, act uncontrollably and fearlessly, they were a scourge in the sea. They did not ask for punishment at the time, but they followed the rules and conspired with evil intentions to confuse the country.
After the pardon was issued, Kuang Heng and Zhang Tan reported to Shi Xian. Instead of stating their charges of disloyalty, they instead promoted the late emperor's appointment of subversives and falsely claimed that the officials feared him more than the Lord.
Suppressing the monarch and exalting ministers is not worthy of praise, and it is beneath the dignity of a minister.
In the first month of the first lunar month, the emperor visited Qutai and came to express condolences to the guards. Kuang Heng, Zhong Erqianshi Dahong, Lu Shang and others sat under the palace gate. Kuang Heng sat facing south, and Shang and others sat facing west.
Kuang Heng arranged the seat for the reward again, stood up and asked the reward to take a seat, and had a private conversation for a meal?
Kuang Heng knew that the emperor was going to visit in person, all officials were doing their jobs, and everyone was gathering together, but he set up improper seats, made low-ranking people sit on the seats, and gave small favors to each other under the public gate. His behavior was not in line with etiquette and disturbed the ranking of the imperial title.
Kuang Heng also sent the palace servant into the palace to ask about the time of day of the procession. He reported that the team that had missed the fourteenth hour had arrived. Kuang Heng sat still, his face did not change, he had no fear and respect, and arrogance and disrespect were all crimes of disrespect.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
有诏勿治。
于是衡惭惧，免冠谢罪，上丞相、侯印绶。
天子以新即位，重伤大臣，乃下御史丞问状。
劾奏尊： 妄诋欺非谤赦前事，猥历奏大臣，无正法，饰成小过，以涂污宰相，摧辱公卿，轻薄国家，奉使不敬。
有诏左迁尊为高陵令，数月，以病免。
会南山群盗傰宗等数百人为吏民害，拜故弘农太守傅刚为校尉，将迹射士千人逐捕，岁余不能禽。
或说大将军凤： 贼数百人在毂下，发军击之不能得，难以视四夷。
独选贤京兆尹乃可。
于是凤荐尊，往为谏大夫，守京辅都尉，行京兆尹事。
旬月间盗贼清。
迁光禄大夫，守京兆尹，后为真，凡三岁。
坐遇使者无礼。
司隶遣假佐放奉诏书白尊发吏捕人，放谓尊： 诏书所捕宜密。
尊曰： 治所公正，京兆善漏泄人事。
放曰： 所捕宜令发吏。
尊又曰： 诏书无京兆文，不当发吏。
及长安系者三月间千人以上。
尊出行县，男子郭赐自言尊： 许仲家十余人共杀赐兄赏，公归舍。
吏不敢捕。
尊行县还，上奏曰： 强不陵弱，各得其所，宽大之政行，和平之气通。
御史大夫中奏尊暴虐不改，外为大言，倨嫚姗上，威信日废，不宜备位九卿。
尊坐免，吏民多称惜之。
湖三老公乘兴等上书讼尊治京兆功效日著： 往者南山盗贼阻山横行，剽劫良民，杀奉法吏，道路不通，城门至以警戒。
步兵校尉使逐捕，暴师露众，旷日烦费，不能禽制。
translation: 
The emperor's order does not need to be processed.
So Kuang Heng took off his official hat in shame and fear, begged to be punished, and handed over the seals and ribbons of the prime minister and the marquis.
Because the emperor had just ascended the throne, it was inconvenient to harm the ministers, so he ordered the censor to inquire about the truth.
The imperial censor Cheng impeached Wang Zun, arbitrarily slandering and slandering matters before the pardon, impeaching ministers many times, enforcing the law unfairly, dressing up minor offenses as major crimes, slandering the prime minister, insulting ministers, showing contempt for the country, and treating envoys disrespectfully.
There was an order to demote Wang Zun to the rank of Gaoling. After a few months, he was dismissed from office due to illness.
It happened that hundreds of bandits from the Nanshan group, including Zuizong, were endangering the officials and the people. The imperial court appointed Fu Gang, the former Hongnong prefect, as a lieutenant. He led a thousand people who could track them down to hunt them down, but they were unable to capture them for more than a year.
Someone persuaded the general Wang Feng: "There are hundreds of thieves at the emperor's feet. They launched an army to pursue them but they couldn't catch them. It was difficult to convince the barbarians."
Only the capable Jing Zhaoyin can be selected to handle it.
So Wang Feng recommended Wang Zun and recruited him as an admonishing doctor. He was appointed as the captain of Jingfu and was in charge of Jingzhao Yin's affairs.
The thieves were eliminated within a month.
Wang Zun was promoted to Guanglu doctor, and was appointed as Jingzhao Yin on trial basis. Later, he was promoted to official position and served for a total of three years.
He was convicted of being rude to the messenger.
Sili sent fake Zuo Fang to tell Wang Zun to send officials to arrest people according to the imperial edict. Fang said to Wang Zun: "Shao Shu wants to arrest people who should be kept secret."
Wang Zun said: The administration of affairs should be fair, and Jingzhao is good at leaking personnel information.
Fang said: If you want to arrest someone, you should send officers and soldiers now.
Wang Zun also said: There is no text about the capital in Shao Shu, so we should not send out officials.
Later, more than a thousand people were arrested in Chang'an in March.
When Wang Zun went out to inspect various counties, a man named Guo Ci complained to Wang Zun: More than ten people from Xu Zhong's family killed my brother Zhang and returned home openly.
The officials did not dare to arrest.
When Wang Zun came back from his inspection of the county, he wrote a memorial saying: The strong in each county will not bully the weak, each will get its own place, a tolerant policy will be implemented, and the atmosphere of peace can be seen everywhere.
The imperial censor reported to China and Korea that the king was tyrannical and unyielding, spoke nonsense outside, and arrogantly slandered his superiors. His prestige was increasingly low, and he was not suitable for the position of Jiuqing.
Wang Zun was dismissed from office because of this, and many officials and people praised him and felt sorry for him.
The third husband of Hu County Chengxing and others wrote a letter to defend Wang Zun, saying that his effectiveness in governing Beijing was increasingly obvious: In the past, bandits in Nanshan blocked the mountain roads and ran rampant, robbing kind people and killing officials who followed the law. The roads were blocked and warnings were posted on the city gates.
The infantry captain was ordered to hunt down the thief, which exposed the entire army, wasted time and money, and failed to capture the thief.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
二卿坐黜，群盗浸强，吏气伤沮，流闻四方，为国家忧。
当此之时，有能捕斩，不爱金爵重赏。
关内侯宽中使问所征故司隶校尉王尊捕群盗方略，拜为谏大夫，守京辅都尉，行京兆尹事。
尊尽节劳心，夙夜思职，卑体下士，厉奔北之吏，起沮伤之气，二旬之间，大党震怀，渠率效首。
贼乱蠲除，民反农业，拊循贫弱，锄耘豪强。
长安宿豪大猾东市贾万、城西萭章、剪张禁、酒赵放、杜陵杨章等皆通邪结党，挟养奸轨，上干王法，下乱吏治，并兼役使，浸渔小民，为百姓豺狼。
更数二千石，二十年莫能禽讨，尊以正法案诛，皆伏其辜。
奸邪销释，吏民说服。
尊拨剧整乱，诛暴禁邪，皆前所稀有，名将所不及。
虽拜为真，未有殊绝褒赏加于尊身。
今御史大夫奏尊 伤害阴阳，为国家忧，亦承用诏书之意，靖言庸违，象龚滔天 。原其所以，出御史丞杨辅，故为尊书佐，素行阴贼，恶口不信，好以刀笔陷人于法。
辅常醉过尊大奴利家，利家捽搏其颊，兄子闳拔刀欲刭之。
辅以故深怨疾毒，欲伤害尊。
疑辅内怀怨恨，外依公事，建画为此议，傅致奏文，浸润加诬，以复私怨。
昔白起为秦将，东破韩、魏，南拔郢都，应侯谮之，赐死杜邮；吴起为魏守西河，而秦、韩不敢犯，谗人间焉，斥逐奔楚。
秦听浸润以诛良将，魏信谗言以逐贤守，此皆偏听不聪，失人之患也。
臣等窃痛伤尊修身洁己，砥节首公，刺讥不惮将相，诛恶不避豪强，诛不制之贼，解国家之忧，功著职修，威信不废，诚国家爪牙之吏，折冲之臣，今一旦无辜制于仇人之手，伤于诋欺之文，上不得以功除罪，下不得蒙棘木之听，独掩怨仇之偏奏，被共工之大恶，无所陈怨诉罪。
尊以京师废乱，群盗并兴，选贤征用，起家为卿，贼乱既除，豪猾伏辜，即以佞巧废黜。
translation: 
The second minister was convicted and demoted, the gang of thieves became more powerful, the morale of the officials was depleted, and rumors spread everywhere, becoming a worry for the country.
At this time, those who can catch and kill thieves will not hesitate to reward them with money and titles.
Kuanzhong, the Marquis of Guannei, sent someone to ask Wang Zun, the former Sili Xiaowei who had been recruited, about the strategy of capturing the bandits. He appointed him as the admonishing doctor, and he was appointed as the capital of Jingfu on trial to act as the agent for Jing Zhaoyin's affairs.
Wang Zun tried his best to be loyal and spend his energy, thinking about his duties at night, lowering his status to treat the scholars, motivating the officials who fled the battle, and boosting the depressed morale. Within two decades, the organization of the bandits was defeated, and the capital of Quebec surrendered.
The thieves were eliminated, the people returned to agriculture, the poor and weak were pacified, and the powerful were eradicated.
Chang'an Su's powerful and cunning Shushi Maiwan, Chengxi Wanzhang, scissors Zhang Jin, winemaker Zhao Fang, Duling Yangzhang and others all colluded with evil people to form gangs and secretly raised illegal and rebellious people. They offended the king's law at the top and disrupted the government's management at the bottom.
There were many officials in the past, but no one could catch or punish them in twenty years. Wang Zun tried and killed them according to the law, so that they were all punished.
The treacherous people were eliminated, and the officials and the people were happy and respected him.
Wang Zun's ability to rectify chaos and stop tyranny and evil was rare in the past and could not be matched by famous generals.
Although he was appointed as a formal official, no special praise or rewards were given to Wang Zun.
Now the imperial censor reported that Wang Zun harmed yin and yang and created troubles for the country. He did not abide by the edict's intention. He said that it was peaceful but was actually evading. It seemed to be respectful but was actually a heinous crime. The reason for investigating this matter was Yang Fu, the censor. He used to be Wang Zun's assistant. He had always been sinister, with a vicious mouth and a dishonest heart, so that he could frame people and be punished with his sword and pen.
Yang Fu once visited Li Jia, the leader of Wang Zun's slaves, when he was drunk. Li Jia grabbed his head and hit him on the cheek. Hong, the son of Li Jia's elder brother, drew a knife to kill him.
Yang Fu therefore harbored resentment and wanted to harm Wang Zun.
It is suspected that Yang Fu was resentful, and on the surface he came up with this idea in accordance with official business, compiled it into a memorial, and infiltrated it into a frame-up to avenge his personal resentment.
In the past, Bai Qi was a general of the Qin State. He conquered Han and Wei in the border area and captured the capital of Ying in the south. Because Ying Hou framed him, he was sentenced to death in Duyou. Wu Qi guarded the Xihe River for the Wei State, but Qin and Han did not dare to invade. There were slanderers who alienated him, so he was excluded and defected to the Chu State.
The king of Qin listened to the false accusation and killed the outstanding generals, and the king of Wei believed in the simple words and expelled the capable guards. This was a disaster caused by listening but not observing, and losing talents.
The ministers and others privately grieved that Wang Zun cleans himself and cultivates himself, practices frugality and devotes himself to serving the public, criticizes things without fearing the generals, kills evildoers without avoiding powerful men, kills lawless bandits, and relieves the country's worries. His achievements are remarkable, his contribution is outstanding, and his prestige is undefeated. He is indeed a powerful force for the country. Officials and ministers who had the courage to retreat from the enemy are now innocently subject to the hands of the enemy and harmed by slanderous and fraudulent memorials. They cannot be exonerated by their merits above and cannot be heard by the ministers below. They only cover up the enemy's evil advances and suffer the same misfortune as Gonggong. Unable to state grievances.
Wang Zun was defeated because of the capital? During the Kunlun Rebellion, a group of thieves arose and the talents were selected and recruited, and civilians were appointed as ministers. The thieves' rebellion has been eliminated, the powerful and cunning people have been punished, and they were immediately dismissed because of the treacherous tricks.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
一尊之身，三期之间，乍贤乍佞，岂不甚哉！
孔子曰： 爱之欲其生，恶之欲其死，是惑也。
浸润之谮不行焉，可谓明矣。 愿下公卿、大夫、博士、议郎，定尊素行。
夫人臣而伤害阴阳，死诛之罪也；靖言庸违，放殛之刑也。
审如御史章，尊乃当伏观阙之诛，放于无人之域，不得苟免。
及任举尊者，当获选举之辜，不可但已。
即不如章，饰文深诋以诉无罪，亦宜有诛，以惩谗贼之口，绝诈欺之路。
唯明主参详，使白黑分别。
书奏，天子复以尊为徐州刺史，迁东郡太守。
久之，河水盛溢，泛浸瓠子金堤，老弱奔走，恐水大决为害。
尊躬率吏民，投沉白马，祀水神河伯。
尊亲执圭璧，使巫策祝，请以身填金堤，因止宿，庐居堤上。
吏民数千万人争叩头救止尊，尊终不肯去。
及水盛堤坏，吏民皆奔走。唯一主簿泣在尊旁，立不动。
而水波稍却回还。
吏民嘉壮尊之勇节，白马三老朱英等奏其状。
下有司考，皆如言。
于是制诏御史： 东郡河水盛长，毁坏金堤，未决三尺，百姓惶恐奔走。
太守身当水冲，履咫尺之难，不避危殆，以安众心，吏民复还就作，水不为灾，朕甚嘉之。
秩尊中二千石，加赐黄金二十斤。
数岁，卒官，吏民纪之。
尊子伯亦为京兆尹，坐耎弱不胜任免。
王章字仲卿，泰山巨平人也。
少以文学为官，稍迁至谏大夫，在朝廷名敢直言。
元帝初，擢为左曹中郎将，与御史中丞陈咸相善，共毁中书令石显，为显所陷，咸减死髡，章免官。
成帝立，征章为谏大夫，迁司隶校尉，大臣贵戚敬惮之。
translation: 
The same king, three years ago. Isn't it strange to be a virtuous official at one moment and a sycophantic minister at another?
Confucius said: If you like him, let him live; if you hate him, let him die. This is very confusing.
The false accusations cannot succeed, and I can be called a sage. I hope that the memorial can be sent to Dr. Yilang, the official doctor, to evaluate Wang Zunsu's character.
Injuring yin and yang as a human subject is a capital crime; false reporting of peace and actual evasion is also worthy of the death penalty.
If it is true as reported by the censor, Wang Zun should be punished by Guanque and exiled to a deserted place, not just dismissed from office.
The person who appoints and recommends the king should be charged with unworthy election, and it cannot just stop there.
Even if it is not as written in the memorial, but the words are modified to deepen the false accusation to accuse innocent people, they should be punished to punish the false accusation and eliminate the path of fraud.
I hope that the sage monarch will examine it carefully so that black and white can be distinguished.
After the memorial was published, the emperor appointed Wang Zun as the governor of Xuzhou and the prefect of Shujun.
After a long time, the water in the Yellow River surged and submerged the Golden Embankment of Huzi. All the old and weak people fled, fearing that the river would burst and cause harm.
Wang Zun personally led the officials and people to sink the white horse to worship the water god Hebo.
Wang Zun held the Guibi in his own hand and asked the wizard to predict the situation, asking for his own body to fill the golden embankment, so he stayed and built a thatched house to live on the embankment.
Tens of millions of officials and people kowtowed to stop Wang Zun, but Wang Zun still refused to leave.
When the embankment broke down, all the officials and people fled, except for the chief clerk, who was weeping beside Wang Zun and stood still.
The water wave retreated slightly and returned.
The officials and the people praised Wang Zun's bravery and integrity, and Zhu Ying, the third elder of Baima, reported his deeds.
I sent you to investigate and found out the truth.
So Shao ordered the censor: The water in the Yellow River in Shu County surged, destroying the golden embankment, which was only three feet short of breaching, and the people fled in fear.
The prefect was at the strategic point of the river, facing a dangerous place within easy reach. He did not avoid danger in order to calm people's hearts. The officials and the people returned to join in the work, so that the river would not overflow and cause disaster. I admire him very much.
The king was promoted to be the winner of two thousand stones and twenty kilograms of gold.
A few years later, Wang Zun died in office, and the officials and people missed him very much.
Wang Zun's son Wang Bo, who was also a Jing Zhaoyin, was removed from office because he was weak and incompetent.
Wang Zhang, courtesy name Zhongqing, was from Juping, Taishan.
He was a literary official when he was young, and later he was promoted to admonishing officials. He was famous for his outspokenness in the court.
In the early years of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to Zuocao Zhonglang General. He was very friendly with Chen Xian, the imperial censor, and together they slandered Zhongshu Ling Shi Xian. They were framed by Shi Xian. Chen Xian commuted the death penalty and was sentenced to death, and Wang Zhang was dismissed from office.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he recruited Wang Zhang to advise the officials and was promoted to Sili Xiaowei. The ministers and nobles respected and feared him.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
王尊免后，代者不称职，章以选为京兆尹。
时，帝舅大将军王凤辅政，章虽为凤所举，非凤专权，不亲附凤。
会日有蚀之，章奏封事，召见，言凤不可任用，宜更选忠贤。
上初纳受章言，后不忍退凤。
章由是见疑，遂为凤所陷，罪至大逆。
语在《元后传》。
初，章为诸生学长安，独与妻居。
章疾病，无被，卧牛衣中，与妻决，涕泣。
其妻呵怒之曰： 仲卿！京师尊贵在朝廷人谁逾仲卿者？
今疾病困厄，不自激卬，乃反涕泣，何鄙也！
后章任官，历位及为京兆，欲上封事，妻又止之曰： 人当知足，独不念牛衣中涕泣时邪？
章曰： 非女子所知也。
书遂上，果下廷尉狱，妻子皆收系。
章小女年可十二，夜起号哭曰： 平生狱上呼囚，数常至九，今八而止。
我君素刚，先死者必君。
明日问之，章果死。
妻子皆徙合浦。
大将军凤薨后，弟成都侯商复为大将军辅政，白上还章妻子故郡。
其家属皆完具，采珠致产数百万。时，萧育为泰山太守，皆令赎还故田宅。
章为京兆二岁，死不以其罪，众庶冤纪之，号为三王。
王骏自有传。骏即王阳子也。
赞曰：自孝武置左冯翊、右扶风、京兆尹，而吏民为之语曰： 前有赵、张，后有三王。
然刘向独序赵广汉、尹翁归、韩延寿，冯商传王尊，杨雄亦如之。
广汉聪明，下不能欺，延寿厉善，所居移风，然皆讦上不信，以失身堕功。
翁归抱公洁己，为近世表。
translation: 
After Wang Zun was dismissed from office, his successor was incompetent and Wang Zhang was elected as Jing Zhaoyin.
At that time, the emperor's uncle, the general Wang Feng, assisted in political affairs. Although Wang Zhang was recommended by Wang Feng, he accused Wang Feng of being monopolistic and not close to Wang Feng.
It happened that there was a solar eclipse in the sun. Wang Zhang went to report to the emperor and was summoned. He said that Wang Feng could not be appointed and that loyal and capable ministers should be selected to assist the government.
The emperor initially accepted Wang Zhang's suggestion, but later he couldn't bear to dismiss Wang Feng.
Wang Zhang was suspected of this, so he was framed by Wang Feng and accused of treason.
This incident is recorded in the "Yuan Hou Zhuan".
At first, Wang Zhang was studying in Chang'an as a scholar, and he was the only one living with his wife.
Wang Zhang was seriously ill and lay in cow clothes without a quilt, crying and saying goodbye to his wife.
His wife angrily scolded him and said: Zhongqing, who is more distinguished in the imperial court than you?
Now that I am trapped by a serious illness, instead of encouraging myself, I start crying instead. How shallow!
Later, Wang Zhang held various official positions, and when he became King Zhaoyin, he wanted to submit a petition, but his wife stopped him and said: "People should be content. Don't you want to lie down in your cow's clothes and cry?"
Wang Zhang said: This is not something women should know.
The memorial was then entered, and as expected, he was sent to Tingwei's prison, and his wife and children were arrested.
Wang Zhang's youngest daughter, who was just twelve years old, woke up at night and cried loudly: "In the past, the jailer used to call the prisoners, and there were always nine prisoners, but now they stop calling when there are eight."
My father has always been upright, so he must be the first to die.
After questioning the next day, Wang Zhang was indeed dead.
His wife and children all moved to Hepu.
After the death of General Wang Feng, his younger brother Hou Shang of Chengdu became a general and assisted in political affairs. He informed the emperor that Wang Zhang's wife and children should return to their hometown.
His family members are all still alive, and pearl fishing has brought the property to millions. At that time, Xiao Yu was the prefect of Taishan and asked them all to redeem their original fields and houses.
Wang Zhang served as Jingzhao Yin for two years and died without punishment. The people thought he was wronged and commemorated him, so he was known as the Three Kings.
Wang Jun himself has a legend that Wang Jun is Wang Yang's son.
Zan said: Since Emperor Xiaowu established Zuo Fengyi, You Fufeng, and Jing Zhaoyin, the officials and the people have compiled a saying: There are Fang and Zhang in the front, and there are three kings in the back.
However, Liu Xiang's "New Preface" only wrote about the trip to Guanghan, Yin Wenggui, and Han Yanshou, Feng Shangxu's "Historical Records" wrote a biography of Wang Zun, and Yang Xiong's "Fayan" also praised Wang Zun.
Guanghan is wise and observant, and his subordinates cannot deceive him. Yanshou is strict and kind, and he can change customs wherever he goes. However, both of them revealed that their superiors were not trusted, so they lost their lives and ruined their achievements.
Weng Guijie was self-sufficient and dedicated to serving the public, which was a model for modern times.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
张敞衎衎，履忠进言，缘饰儒雅，刑罚必行，纵赦有度，条教可观，然被轻惰之名。
王尊文武自将，所在必发，谲诡不经，好为大言。
王章刚直守节，不量轻重，以陷刑戮，妻子流迁，哀哉！
translation: 
Zhang Chang was shrewd and capable, loyal to his advice, specialized in elegance, punishments must be carried out, relaxations and pardons were limited, and regulations were clear, but he had a reputation of being frivolous and lazy.
Wang Zun is both civil and military, good at discerning, cunning and unconventional, and likes to talk big.
Wang Zhang was upright and uncompromising, so he was framed and tortured. His wife and children were exiled. How pitiful!


