Summary line 0
Span: 0-48 (score=0.5157)

original:
孝哀皇帝，元帝庶孙，定陶恭王子也。
母曰丁姬。
年三岁嗣立为王，长好文辞法律。
元延四年入朝，尽从傅、相、中尉。
时成帝少弟中山孝王亦来朝，独从傅。
上怪之，以问定陶王，对曰： 令，诸侯王朝，得从其国二千石。
傅、相、中尉皆国二千石，故尽从之。
上令诵《诗》，通习，能说。
他日问中山王： 独从傅在何法令？
不能对。
令诵《尚书》，又废。
及赐食于前，后饱；起下，袜系解。
成帝由此以为不能，而贤定陶王，数称其材。
时王祖母傅太后随王来朝，私赂遗上所幸赵昭仪及帝舅票骑将军曲阳侯王根。
昭仪及根见上亡子，亦欲豫自结为长久计，皆更称定陶王，劝帝以为嗣。
成帝亦自美其材，为加元服而遣之，时年十七矣。
明年，使执金吾任宏守大鸿胪，持节征定陶王，立为皇太子。
谢曰： 臣幸得继父守籓为诸侯王，材质不足以假充太子之宫。
陛下圣德宽仁，敬承祖宗，奉顺神祇，宜蒙福晁子孙千亿之报。
臣愿且得留国邸，旦夕奉问起居，俟有圣嗣，归国守籓。
书奉，天子报闻。
后月余，立楚孝王孙景为定陶王，奉恭王祀，所以奖厉太子专为后之谊。
语在《外戚传》。
绥和二年三月，成帝崩。
四月丙午，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
尊皇太后曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
大赦天下。赐宗室王子有属者马各一驷，吏民爵，百户牛酒，三老、孝弟、力田、鳏、寡、孤、独帛。
太皇太后诏尊定陶恭王为恭皇。
五月丙戌，立皇后傅氏。诏曰： 《春秋》 母以子贵 ，奠定陶太后曰恭皇太后，丁姬曰恭皇后，各置左右詹事，食邑如长信宫、中宫。
追尊傅父为崇祖侯、丁父为褒德侯。
封舅丁明为阳安侯，舅丁满为平周侯。
追谥满父忠为平周怀侯，皇后父晏为孔乡侯，皇太后弟侍中光禄大夫赵钦为新成侯。
六月，诏曰： 郑声淫而乱乐，圣王所放，其罢乐府。
曲阳侯根前以大司马建社稷策，益封二千户。
太仆安阳侯舜辅导有旧恩，益封五百户，及丞相孔光、大司空汜乡侯何武益封各千户。
诏曰： 河间王良丧太后三年，为宗室仪表，益封万户。
又曰： 制节谨度以防奢淫，为政所先，百王不易之道也。
诸侯王、列侯、公主、吏二千石及豪富民多畜奴婢，田宅亡限，与民争利，百姓失职，重困不足。
其议限列。
有司条奏： 诸王、列侯得名田国中，列侯在长安及公主名田县道，关内侯、吏民名田，皆无得过三十顷。
诸侯王奴婢二百人，列侯、公主百人，关内侯、吏民三十人。
年六十以上，十岁以下，不在数中。
贾人皆不得名田、为吏，犯者以律论。
诸名田、畜、奴婢过品，皆没入县官。
齐三服官、诸官织绮绣，难成，害女红之物，皆止，无作输。
除任子令及诽谤诋欺法。
掖庭宫人年三十以下，出嫁之。
官奴婢五十以上，免为庶人。
禁郡国无得献名兽。

translation:
Emperor Xiaoai was the grandson of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty and the son of Prince Dingtao Gong.
The mother is Ding Ji.
He became king at the age of three, and became interested in literature and law as an adult.
In the fourth year of Yuanyan's reign, he went to the capital to see Emperor Cheng, and his Fu, Xiang, and lieutenants all came together.
At this time, Emperor Cheng's younger brother, Prince Xiao of Zhongshan, also came to see him, but only Fu Tong came.
The emperor was puzzled, so he asked King Dingtao. King Dingtao replied: "The imperial court has issued an order. When princes and kings come to court, their officials with a title of two thousand stones should come together."
Fu, Xiang, and Lieutenant all have two thousand stones, so they should all come together.
The emperor asked him to recite "Poetry", and he was familiar with it and could explain its meaning.
Another day, Emperor Cheng asked King Zhongshan: "Which decree is it based on when Fu Tong comes?"
King Zhongshan was speechless.
I asked him to recite the Book of Documents, but he forgot about it again.
Emperor Cheng invited him to dinner, but he was still eating after everyone else had finished. When he left the table, even his garter belt fell off.
When Emperor Cheng saw this, he thought King Zhongshan was incompetent, but he liked King Dingtao very much and often praised his talents.
At this time, Queen Mother Fu, the grandmother of King Dingtao, accompanied her to the court and privately presented gifts to Emperor Cheng's favorite Zhao Zhaoyi and his uncle, Hussar General and Quyanghou Wanggen.
Zhao Zhaoyi and Wang Gen saw that the emperor had no children and wanted to establish a relationship with a suitable prince as soon as possible to maintain their long-term wealth, so they praised King Dingtao and persuaded Emperor Cheng to make him the prince.
Emperor Cheng also admired King Dingtao's talents, so he held an adult crowning ceremony for him in the court and sent him back to his fiefdom, Dingtao. He was seventeen years old at this time.
In the second year, the emperor sent Jinwu Renhong to act as Dahonglu. With the imperial edict, he summoned King Dingtao and established him as the crown prince.
King Dingtao thanked Zhao and said: I am fortunate enough to inherit my late father's vassal status and become the prince of the vassals. However, my talents and virtues are not enough to enter the prince's palace.
Your Majesty is holy, virtuous and generous. He respects his ancestors and obeys the gods. He deserves to be blessed by heaven and have many children and grandchildren.
I would like to temporarily stay in the Kyoto residence and ask about the emperor's daily life in the morning and evening. After the emperor has a holy heir, he will return to the feudal state and guard the vassal.
After the book was written, the emperor said that everything was known.
More than a month later, an edict was issued to establish Liu Jing, the grandson of King Xiao of Chu, as King Dingtao, and to offer sacrifices to King Dingtao Gong. This was to reward the prince for paying attention to Zongtao's character.
The specific records are in "Hanshu·Biography of Waiqi".
In March of the second year of Suihe, Emperor Cheng died.
On the fourth day of April, the prince became the emperor and paid a visit to the Temple of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Respect the Queen Mother as the Queen Mother and the Queen as the Queen Mother.
Under the amnesty, each of the princes of the clan who are still in the fifth service will be rewarded with a horse, the officials and the people will be given titles, and each hundred households will be given a certain amount of cattle and wine.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict to honor Prince Tao Gong as Emperor Gong.
On May 19th, she made Mrs. Fu the empress and issued an edict: "Spring and Autumn" said that the mother is more valuable than the son. Now, Empress Dowager Ding Tao is honored as Empress Dowager Gong, and Ding Ji is empress Gong. Each has appointed provincial officials on the left and right, and the food is the same as that of the Empress Dowager and the Empress.
The father of Empress Dowager Fu was posthumously named Chongzuhou, and the father of Empress Gong and Ding Ji was given the title of Baodehou.
His uncle Ding Ming was granted the title of Marquis of Yang'an, and his uncle's son Ding Man was granted the title of Marquis of Pingzhou.
Ding Zhong, the father of Ding Man, was posthumously named Huaihou of Pingzhou, Fu Yan, the queen's father, was named Kongxiang Hou, and Zhao Qin, the empress dowager's younger brother, Zhao Qin, the official of Guanglu, was named Xinchenghou.
In the sixth month, an edict was issued saying: "Zheng Sheng's lewd and promiscuous music has been abandoned by the saints. He is now dismissed from Yuefu."
Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, once suggested to the Grand Sima that he establish a crown prince to stabilize the country and grant 2,000 households.
The servant Anyang Hou Shun had an old favor and granted five hundred households. In addition, the Prime Minister Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Si Xiang Hou Hewu each granted a thousand households.
The edict said: Wang Liang of Hejian has been in mourning for the Queen Mother for three years. He is an example of the clan and has granted 10,000 households.
The edict also said: The primary task of government is to exercise moderation, prudence and moderation to prevent extravagance and debauchery. It is an unchangeable common law in the past dynasties.
There are princes, princes, princesses, officials with two thousand stones, rich people, many slaves and maids, and unlimited fields and houses. They compete with the people for profit, causing the people to lose their regular business and be in serious trouble.
Restrictive regulations should be formulated.
Relevant officials wrote: The land that each king and prince can occupy in his or her feudal state, the land that princes can occupy in Chang'an and the princess in each county, and the land that princes and officials in Guan Nei can occupy must not exceed thirty hectares.
There are 200 slaves and maidservants from each prince, 100 princes and princesses, and 30 officials and people from Guannei.
Those aged over sixty and under ten are not included in this amount.
No businessman is allowed to occupy land or serve as an official, and offenders will be punished according to law.
Anyone whose land occupation and livestock and maidservants exceeded the quota were not included in the county magistrate's income.
The fine embroidery woven by the officials and other officials in Qi San was stopped because it was too complex and too complex to be made, which would harm the female workers, and those that had already been made were not allowed to be presented.
The law of appointing a son to be a husband after being appointed to the post of two thousand stone for three years and the law of defamation and false accusation were revoked.
Those who live in the inner palace under the age of thirty can get married.
Official slaves who are over fifty years old are exempted from the status of slaves and become commoners.
The county is not allowed to offer rare birds and animals.

summary:
Emperor Xiaoai, grandson of Emperor Yuan and son of Prince Dingtao Gong, became king at age three and developed an interest in literature and law. In the fourth year of Yuanyan's reign, he visited Emperor Cheng with his officials, while Prince Xiao of Zhongshan came with only one attendant. Emperor Cheng, impressed by King Dingtao's knowledge of the "Poetry" and his explanations, favored him over the incompetent King Zhongshan. Queen Mother Fu, King Dingtao's grandmother, bribed Emperor Cheng's favorites Zhao Zhaoyi and Wang Gen, who, seeing the emperor had no heirs, praised King Dingtao. Emperor Cheng crowned him at seventeen and later made him crown prince. King Dingtao humbly declined but accepted. After Emperor Cheng's death in the second year of Suihe, the prince became emperor, honoring the Queen Mother and issuing amnesties. He honored his grandmother and mother, granted titles to relatives, and dismissed Yuefu for lewd music. He rewarded Wang Gen and others for supporting his succession and granted lands to Wang Liang for mourning. He issued edicts to curb extravagance, limiting land and slave ownership, banning merchants from land and office, and stopping complex embroidery. He revoked certain laws, allowed inner palace residents under thirty to marry, freed slaves over fifty, and banned rare animal tributes. He increased salaries for low-ranking officials and punished corrupt officials. After disasters like earthquakes and floods, he sent officials to aid victims and exempted taxes for the poor. In the first year of Jianping, he pardoned the world, deposed guilty marquises, and gave Wang family lands to the poor. He sought talent, granted money and cloth to officials, and saw the suicide of Empress Dowager Feng and her brother. In the second year, he dismissed the chief minister, restored the imperial censor, and honored his ancestors with new titles and temples. After Empress Dowager Ding's death, he followed Zhou rites for burial, recruiting 50,000 workers. He initially accepted prophecies to change the era name but later revoked them, punishing the prophets and officials. He faced droughts, fires, and comets, restored sacrifices, and dealt with rebellions. He granted titles for reporting crimes, honored his wife, and sought military talent. In the first year of Yuanshou, a solar eclipse led to an edict blaming himself and seeking virtuous officials. After Empress Dowager Fu's death, he dismissed officials and saw portents. In the second year, Xiongnu envoys visited, and he divided official duties. Emperor Ai died in Weiyang Palace at age 20 after six years as emperor, buried in Yiling. Ban Gu noted his early talent and efforts to strengthen authority but lamented his short reign.

================================================================================

