Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
卫康叔名封，周武王同母少弟也。其次尚有冉季，冉季最少。
武王已克殷纣，复以殷余民封纣子武庚禄父，比诸侯，以奉其先祀勿绝。
为武庚未集，恐其有贼心，武王乃令其弟管叔、蔡叔傅相武庚禄父，以和其民。
武王既崩，成王少。
周公旦代成王治，当国。
管叔、蔡叔疑周公，乃与武庚禄父作乱，欲攻成周。
周公旦以成王命兴师伐殷，杀武庚禄父、管叔，放蔡叔，以武庚殷余民封康叔为卫君，居河、淇间故商墟。
周公旦惧康叔齿少，乃申告康叔曰： 必求殷之贤人君子长者，问其先殷所以兴，所以亡，而务爱民。
告以纣所以亡者以淫于酒，酒之失，妇人是用，故纣之乱自此始。
为《梓材》，示君子可法则。
故谓之《康诰》《酒诰》《梓材》以命之。
康叔之国，既以此命，能和集其民，民大说。
成王长，用事，举康叔为周司寇，赐卫宝祭器，以章有德。
康叔卒，子康伯代立。
translation: 
Uncle Kang of Wei State was named Feng, and he was the half-brother of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty. They also had a younger brother named Ran Ji, who was the youngest.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin Zhou, he granted the remnants of Yin Zhou to King Zhou's son Wu Geng Lufu, making him the same as the princes, so that they could worship their ancestors and pass them on from generation to generation.
Because Wu Geng had not fully obeyed, King Wu was worried that Wu Geng had rebellious intentions, so he sent his younger brothers Guan Shu and Cai Shu to monitor and assist Wu Geng's father to appease the people.
After King Wu died, King Cheng was young and still in his infancy.
Zhou Gongdan took charge of state affairs instead of King Cheng.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected Zhou Gongdan, so they launched a rebellion with Wu Genglu's father to attack Chengzhou.
Zhou Gongdan asked King Cheng to organize an army to attack the state of Yin, killed Wu Genglu's father and Guan Shu, exiled Cai Shu, and granted Wu Geng Yin's remnants to Kang Shu, making him the king of Wei. He lived between the Yellow River and Qishui River, which was the ancient capital of the Shang Dynasty, Yinxu.
Zhou Gongdan was worried that Uncle Kang was young and would have difficulty maintaining his rule, so he repeatedly warned Uncle Kang: You must find talented, prestigious, and experienced people in the Yin Dynasty, and learn from them the history of the rise and fall of the Yin Dynasty, and you must care for and care for your own people.
He also warned Kang Shu that the reason for Zhou's demise was that he drank excessively, indulged in pleasure, and indulged in female sex. Therefore, the chaos in the reign of King Zhou began from here.
Zhou Gongdan also wrote "Zi Cai" in accordance with the principle that craftsmen must use rules when making woodenware, as a guideline for rulers to follow.
Therefore, it was called "Kang Gao", "Jiu Gao" and "Zicai", and was used to teach Uncle Kang.
Uncle Kang used these principles to govern the feudal country, stabilize and harmonize his people, and the people were very happy.
After King Cheng came of age, he personally took charge of the political power, appointed Uncle Kang as the Sikou of the Zhou Dynasty, and gave him many treasures and sacrificial vessels to commend Uncle Kang's virtues.
After Uncle Kang's death, his son Kang Bo became the king.

summary:
summary line 0: Uncle Kang of Wei, named Feng, was the half-brother of King Wu of Zhou. After King Wu defeated the Shang dynasty, he granted the remnants of Yin to Wu Geng, King Zhou's son, but worried about rebellion. He sent Guan Shu and Cai Shu to monitor Wu Geng. After King Wu's death, King Cheng was young, and Zhou Gongdan ruled as regent. Guan Shu and Cai Shu, suspecting Zhou Gongdan, rebelled with Wu Geng. Zhou Gongdan suppressed the rebellion, killed Wu Geng and Guan Shu, exiled Cai Shu, and granted the Yin remnants to Kang Shu, making him ruler of Wei. Zhou Gongdan warned Kang Shu to learn from Yin's history, avoid excessive drinking and pleasure, and wrote "Kang Gao," "Jiu Gao," and "Zi Cai" as guidelines. Kang Shu governed well, and the people were content. After King Cheng came of age, he appointed Kang Shu as Sikou and honored him.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
四十二年，犬戎杀周幽王，武公将兵往佐周平戎，甚有功，周平王命武公为公。
五十五年，卒，子庄公扬立。
庄公五年，取齐女为夫人，好而无子。
又取陈女为夫人，生子，蚤死。
陈女女弟亦幸于庄公，而生子完。
完母死，庄公令夫人齐女子之，立为太子。
庄公有宠妾，生子州吁。
十八年，州吁长，好兵，庄公使将。
石碏谏庄公曰： 庶子好兵，使将，乱自此起。
不听。二十三年，庄公卒，太子完立，是为桓公。
桓公二年，弟州吁骄奢，桓公绌之，州吁出奔。
十三年，郑伯弟段攻其兄，不胜，亡，而州吁求与之友。
十六年，州吁收聚卫亡人以袭杀桓公，州吁自立为卫君。
为郑伯弟段欲伐郑，请宋、陈、蔡与俱，三国皆许州吁。
州吁新立，好兵，弑桓公，卫人皆不爱。
石碏乃因桓公母家于陈，详为善州吁。至郑郊，石碏与陈侯共谋，使右宰丑进食，因杀州吁于濮，而迎桓公弟晋于邢而立之，是为宣公。
translation: 
In the 42nd year, Quan Rong killed King You of Zhou. Duke Wu personally commanded the generals to assist the Emperor of Zhou in quelling the invasion of Quan Rong and established military exploits. King Ping of Zhou ordered Duke Wu to declare himself duke.
In the fifty-fifth year, Duke Wu passed away, and his son Zhuang Gongyang became the king.
In the fifth year of Duke Zhuang's accession to the throne, he married a daughter of the State of Qi as his wife. The daughter of Qi was beautiful but childless.
Duke Zhuang then married Chen Guonv, who gave birth to a son who died in infancy.
Chen Nu's sister was also favored by Duke Zhuang and gave birth to a son named Wan.
After Wan's mother passed away, Duke Zhuang asked his wife Qi to raise Wan and made Wan the prince.
Duke Zhuang also had a beloved concubine who gave birth to a son named Zhouxu.
In the eighteenth year of Duke Zhuang, Zhouxu grew up and liked military affairs, so Duke Zhuang appointed him as a general in the army.
Shi Jue, the high minister of the Wei State, kindly came to admonish Duke Zhuang and said, "My son is fond of military affairs. Please make him a general. From now on, troubles will arise."
Duke Zhuang refused to listen. In the twenty-third year, Duke Zhuang passed away and the crown prince was established as the king. This is Duke Huan.
In the second year of Duke Huan, his younger brother Zhou Xu was arrogant and extravagant. Duke Huan deposed him and Zhou Xu fled abroad.
In the thirteenth year, Duan, Zheng Bo's younger brother, attacked his elder brother but failed to win and fled. Zhouxu asked for friendship with him.
In the 16th year, Zhouxu gathered the fugitives of Weiguo to attack and kill Duke Huan. Zhouxu himself established himself as the king of Weiguo.
Because Zheng Bo's brother Duan wanted to attack the state of Zheng, Zhouxu asked Song, Chen, and Cai to jointly support Duan, and the three countries all agreed to this request.
Zhouxu had just ascended the throne. Because he was fond of military affairs and killed Duke Huan, all the people in the Wei Dynasty hated him.
Because Duke Huan's mother lived in Chen State, Shi Que pretended to be friendly with Zhouxu. The Wei army marched to the outskirts of the capital of Zheng State. Shi Que and Chen Hou conspired and sent their right minister Chou to offer food to Zhouxu. They took the opportunity to kill Zhouxu in Pu, and brought Duke Huan's younger brother Jin back to Wei State from Xingdi and established him as king. This is Duke Xuan.

summary:
summary line 1: After Kang Shu's death, his descendants ruled Wei for generations. Qinghou bribed King Yi of Zhou to have the ruler of Wei titled Marquis. During Lihou's reign, King Li of Zhou fled, and the "Republican Administration" began. Later, Gongbo Yu was forced to commit suicide by his brother He, who became Duke Wu. Duke Wu reformed governance, and the people prospered. He assisted King Ping of Zhou against Quan Rong and was declared duke. After his death, Duke Zhuang succeeded him. Duke Zhuang married a Qi woman who was childless, then married a Chen woman who bore a son who died. Another Chen woman bore Wan, who was made prince. Duke Zhuang also had a son, Zhouxu, who loved military affairs. Minister Shi Que warned Duke Zhuang, but he ignored him. After Duke Zhuang's death, Prince Wan became Duke Huan. Zhouxu, arrogant and extravagant, was deposed and fled. Later, Zhouxu gathered fugitives, killed Duke Huan, and declared himself ruler. He sought to support Zheng Bo's brother Duan, but the people hated him for killing Duke Huan. Shi Que conspired with Chen Hou to kill Zhouxu and established Duke Huan's brother Jin as Duke Xuan.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
界盗见其验，即杀之。
寿已死，而太子伋又至，谓盗曰： 所当杀乃我也。
盗并杀太子伋，以报宣公。
宣公乃以子朔为太子。
十九年，宣公卒，太子朔立，是为惠公。
左右公子不平朔之立也，惠公四年，左右公子怨惠公之谗杀前太子伋而代立，乃作乱，攻惠公，立太子伋之弟黔牟为君，惠公奔齐。
卫君黔牟立八年，齐襄公率诸侯奉王命共伐卫，纳卫惠公，诛左右公子。
卫君黔牟奔于周，惠公复立。
惠公立三年出亡，亡八年复入，与前通年凡十三年矣。
二十五年，惠公怨周之容舍黔牟，与燕伐周。
周惠王奔温，卫、燕立惠王弟颓为王。
二十九年，郑复纳惠王。
三十一年，惠公卒，子懿公赤立。
懿公即位，好鹤，淫乐奢侈。
translation: 
Seeing that the previous agreement had come true, the thief killed him.
After Zishou was killed, Prince Ji arrived again and said to the thief, "I am the one who should be killed!"
The thief then killed Prince Ji and repaid Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan made Zi Shuo the crown prince.
In the 19th year, Duke Xuan died, and Prince Shuo became the king. This was Duke Hui.
The two young masters on the left and right were indignant at Zi Shuo being established as king. In the fourth year of Duke Hui, the left and right sons resented Duke Hui for slandering and murdering Prince Ji and establishing himself on his own. They launched a riot, attacked Duke Hui, and appointed Prince Ji's younger brother Qian Mou as king. Duke Hui fled to Qi.
In the eighth year of the reign of King Qianmou of Wei, Duke Xiang of Qi was ordered by the Emperor of Zhou to lead all the vassal states to jointly attack the Kingdom of Wei. He sent Duke Hui of Wei back to his country and killed the left and right young masters.
Wei Jun Qian Mou fled to Zhou Dynasty, and Duke Hui ascended the throne again.
Duke Hui fled three years after he was first established as king, and returned to defend his country eight years later, for a total of thirteen years.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Hui was dissatisfied with Zhou's acceptance and resettlement of Qian Mou, and he joined forces with Yan to attack Zhou.
King Hui of Zhou fled to Wen, and Wei and Yan jointly established King Hui's younger brother as king.
In the twenty-ninth year, Zheng Guo escorted King Hui back to Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Hui of Wei passed away, and his son Yigong Chi became the king.
After Duke Yi ascended the throne, he liked to raise cranes and spend money on sexual pleasures.

summary:
summary line 2: Duke Xuan's beloved wife Yi Jiang bore a son, Ji, who was made prince. Duke Xuan married a beautiful Qi woman for the prince but took her for himself. She bore Zishou and Zishuo. After Prince Ji's mother died, Zishuo slandered Ji. Duke Xuan, resenting Ji, sent him as envoy to Qi and ordered thieves to kill him. Zishou warned Ji, but Ji refused to disobey his father. Zishou stole Ji's envoy token and was killed first. Ji then arrived and was also killed. Duke Xuan made Zishuo crown prince. After Duke Xuan's death, Zishuo became Duke Hui. The left and right sons resented him, attacked, and made Qian Mou, Ji's brother, ruler. Duke Hui fled to Qi. Later, Duke Xiang of Qi, under Zhou orders, attacked Wei, restored Duke Hui, and killed the left and right sons. Qian Mou fled to Zhou. Duke Hui later attacked Zhou with Yan, forcing King Hui of Zhou to flee. Zheng later restored King Hui. After Duke Hui's death, his son Duke Yi succeeded. Duke Yi loved cranes and indulged in pleasure. When Zhai attacked, soldiers rebelled, and Zhai killed Duke Yi. The people, long dissatisfied with Duke Hui's line, made Zhao Bowan's son Shen, Duke Dai. After his death, his brother Rui became Duke Wen. Duke Wen reduced taxes, judged crimes fairly, and won the people's hearts. He later treated Jin's Chong'er rudely. After Duke Wen's death, his son Duke Cheng succeeded. Duke Cheng refused Jin passage to rescue Song, leading to conflict. Jin attacked Wei, and Duke Cheng fled. He later bribed Zhou officials to avoid poisoning and was restored after Zhou interceded. After Duke Cheng's death, his son Duke Mu succeeded. Duke Mu's reign saw Chu attacks on Chen and Zheng. After his death, his son Duke Ding succeeded, then Duke Xian. Duke Xian whipped musician Cao, who later slandered him. Duke Xian's rude behavior angered Sun Wenzi, who drove him out. Duke Xian fled to Qi. Sun Wenzi and Ning Huizi made Qiu, Duke Xian's brother, Duke Shang. Later, Ning and Sun fought, and Sun fled to Jin, asking Jin to restore Duke Xian. Jin attacked Wei, arrested Duke Shang, and restored Duke Xian. Duke Xian executed Ning happy. After his death, his son Duke Xiang succeeded. Duke Xiang's concubine dreamed of Uncle Kang, who said her son would rule Wei. She bore a son named Yuan, who became Duke Ling. Duke Ling's reign saw Confucius visit Wei. Prince Kuai Chi, resenting Duke Ling's wife Nan Zi, tried to kill her but failed and fled. After Duke Ling's death, his wife made Zi Ying ruler, but he declined, and the people made Zhe, Kuai Chi's son, Duke Chu. Zhao Jianzi tried to restore Kuai Chi, but Wei forces repelled him. Later, Kuai Chi, with help from Kong Kui's mother, returned, hijacked Kong Kui, and became Duke Zhuang. He wanted to kill ministers but relented. After his death, his son succeeded, but Wei faced turmoil. Eventually, Wei was demoted to a small state under Zhao. In the Qin dynasty, Weijun was deposed, ending the Wei lineage.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
魏更立嗣君弟，是为元君。
元君为魏婿，故魏立之。
元君十四年，秦拔魏东地，秦初置东郡，更徙卫野王县，而并濮阳为东郡。
二十五年，元君卒，子君角立。
君角九年，秦并天下，立为始皇帝。
二十一年，二世废君角为庶人，卫绝祀。
太史公曰：余读世家言，至于宣公之太子以妇见诛，弟寿争死以相让，此与晋太子申生不敢明骊姬之过同，俱恶伤父之志。
然卒死亡，何其悲也！
或父子相杀，兄弟相灭，亦独何哉？
translation: 
Wei changed and established a successor, Jun's younger brother, who was Yuan Jun.
Yuan Jun was the son-in-law of Wei State, so Wei State established him.
In the fourteenth year of Yuanjun, Qin captured the eastern territory of Wei, and Qin began to set up Dongjun in this area. He also moved Weijun to Yewang County and merged Puyang into Dongjun.
In the twenty-fifth year, Yuanjun passed away, and his son Junjiao became the king.
In the ninth year of Junjiao, Qin annexed the world and Ying Zheng was established as the first emperor.
In the twenty-first year of the Qin Dynasty, the second emperor of Qin deposed Weijun, Junjiao became an ordinary commoner, and the Weiguo lineage was completely cut off.
Tai Shigong said: I read the records of the family and read that the crown prince of Duke Xuan of Wei was killed because of his wife. His younger brother Zishou and the crown prince gave in to each other and fought to die. This is the same as the prince Shen Sheng of Jin who did not dare to declare Li Ji's fault because he was afraid of hurting his father's feelings.
However, it is so sad to finally die!
Some fathers and sons kill each other, and some brothers destroy each other. Why is this?

summary:
summary line 3: Tai Shigong remarked on the tragic deaths of Prince Ji and Zishou, noting the sorrow of fathers and sons killing each other and brothers destroying one another.

