Chunk 0: 
original: 
孟尝君名文，姓田氏。文之父曰靖郭君田婴。
田婴者，齐威王少子而齐宣王庶弟也。
田婴自威王时任职用事，与成侯邹忌及田忌将而救韩伐魏。
成侯与田忌争宠，成侯卖田忌。
田忌惧，袭齐之边邑，不胜，亡走。
会威王卒，宣王立，知成侯卖田忌，乃复召田忌以为将。
宣王二年，田忌与孙膑、田婴俱伐魏，败之马陵，虏魏太子申而杀魏将庞涓。
宣王七年，田婴使於韩、魏，韩、魏服於齐。
婴与韩昭侯、魏惠王会齐宣王东阿南，盟而去。
明年，复与梁惠王会甄。
是岁，梁惠王卒。
宣王九年，田婴相齐。
齐宣王与魏襄王会徐州而相王也。
楚威王闻之，怒田婴。
明年，楚伐败齐师於徐州，而使人逐田婴。
田婴使张丑说楚威王，威王乃止。
田婴相齐十一年，宣王卒，湣王即位。
即位三年，而封田婴於薛。
初，田婴有子四十馀人。其贱妾有子名文，文以五月五日生。
translation: 
Mengchangjun's surname is Tian Mingwen. Tian Wen's father is Jingguo Jun Tian Ying.
Tian Ying is the youngest son of King Qi Wei and the younger brother of King Qi Xuan's concubine.
Tian Ying has been in power since he was King Wei. He once led troops with Chenghou Zou Ji and Tian Ji to rescue South Korea and attack Wei.
Later, Chenghou and Tian Ji competed for the favor of King Qi and had a deep rift. As a result, Chenghou betrayed Tian Ji.
Tian Ji was very frightened, so he launched a surprise attack on the city on the border of Qi. He failed to capture it and ran away.
At this time, King Wei of Qi passed away and King Xuan came to the throne. King Xuan knew that it was Chenghou who framed Tian Ji, so he recalled Tian Ji and made him a general.
In the second year of King Xuan of Qi, Tian Ji, Sun Bin and Tian Ying attacked the state of Wei, defeated the state of Wei in Maling, captured the prince Shen of the state of Wei, and killed the general Pang Juan of the state of Wei.
In the seventh year of King Xuan, Tian Ying was ordered to go to South Korea and Wei as an envoy. After some of his activities, South Korea and Wei were surrendered to Qi.
Tian Ying accompanied Han Zhaohou and King Wei Hui to meet with King Qi Xuan in Dong'anan. The three countries formed an alliance and signed a treaty before leaving.
The next year, King Xuan met with King Hui of Liang again in Zhendi.
This year, King Hui of Liang passed away.
In the ninth year of King Xuan's reign, Tian Ying became prime minister of Qi.
King Xuan of Qi and King Xiang of Wei respected each other as kings at the Xuzhou League.
After King Chu Wei learned about this incident, he was very angry with Tian Ying and thought that he was the one who planned it.
The next year, Chu attacked Qi and defeated the Qi army in Xuzhou, so they sent people to hunt down Tian Ying.
Tian Ying sent Zhang Chou to persuade King Chu Wei, and King Chu Wei finally gave up.
Tian Ying served as prime minister of Qi for eleven years. King Xuan died and King Min came to the throne.
Three years after King Min came to the throne, he granted Tian Ying the title of "Xue Yi".
At first, Tian Ying had more than forty sons. One of his concubines gave birth to a son named Wen. Tian Wen was born on May 5th.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
婴告其母曰： 勿举也。
其母窃举生之。
及长，其母因兄弟而见其子文於田婴。
田婴怒其母曰： 吾令若去此子，而敢生之，何也？
文顿首，因曰： 君所以不举五月子者，何故？
婴曰： 五月子者，长与户齐，将不利其父母。
文曰： 人生受命於天乎？
将受命於户邪？
婴默然。
文曰： 必受命於天，君何忧焉。
必受命於户，则可高其户耳，谁能至者！
婴曰： 子休矣。
久之，文承间问其父婴曰： 子之子为何？
曰： 为孙。
孙之孙为何？
曰： 为玄孙。
玄孙之孙为何？
曰： 不能知也。
文曰： 君用事相齐，至今三王矣，齐不加广而君私家富累万金，门下不见一贤者。
文闻将门必有将，相门必有相。
translation: 
Tian Ying told Tian Wen's mother: Don't raise him.
But Tian Wen's mother still secretly raised him.
When he grew up, his mother introduced Tian Wen to Tian Ying through Tian Wen's brother.
When Tian Ying saw the child, he angrily said to his mother: I asked you to throw this child away, but you dared to feed him. Why?
Before Tian Wen's mother could answer, Tian Wen immediately kowtowed and then asked Tian Ying: "Why are you not allowed to raise a child born in May?"
Tian Ying replied: A child born in May will be disadvantageous to his parents when he grows to be as tall as the door.
Tian Wen said: Is human destiny granted by God?
Or is it awarded by the portal?
Tian Ying didn't know how to answer, so he remained silent.
Tian Wen continued: If it is granted by God, why should you worry?
If it is granted by the portal, then as long as the portal is raised, who can grow so tall!
Tian Ying was speechless and scolded: "Stop talking!"
After a long time, Tian Wen took the opportunity to ask his father: "What is the name of your son's son?"
Tian Ying replied: "Call me grandson."
Tian Wen then asked: What is the name of your grandson’s grandson?
Tian Ying replied: "My name is Great-grandson."
Tian Wen asked again: What is the name of your great-great-grandson's grandson?
Tian Ying said: I don’t know anymore.
Tian Wen said: You have held great power and served as the prime minister of Qi. You have been kings for three generations. However, the territory of Qi has not expanded, but your private family has accumulated tens of thousands of gold, and there is not a single virtuous person under your family.
I heard that the general’s court must have a general, and the prime minister’s court must have the prime minister.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今君後宫蹈绮縠而士不得褐，仆妾馀粱肉而士不厌糟糠。
今君又尚厚积馀藏，欲以遗所不知何人，而忘公家之事日损，文窃怪之。
於是婴乃礼文，使主家待宾客。
宾客日进，名声闻於诸侯。
诸侯皆使人请薛公田婴以文为太子，婴许之。
婴卒，谥为靖郭君。
而文果代立於薛，是为孟尝君。
孟尝君在薛，招致诸侯宾客及亡人有罪者，皆归孟尝君。
孟尝君舍业厚遇之，以故倾天下之士。
食客数千人，无贵贱一与文等。
孟尝君待客坐语，而屏风後常有侍史，主记君所与客语，问亲戚居处。
客去，孟尝君已使使存问，献遗其亲戚。
孟尝君曾待客夜食，有一人蔽火光。客怒，以饭不等，辍食辞去。
translation: 
Now your concubines can trample silk and satin, but the wise men cannot wear coarse clothes; your male and female slaves have leftover meat soup, but the wise men cannot even eat bran.
Now you are still trying to save more and more, wanting to leave it to those who can't even be called, but you have forgotten that the country is losing power among the princes day by day. I'm secretly weird.
From then on, Tian Ying changed his attitude towards Tian Wen, valued him, and asked him to take charge of housekeeping and receive guests.
The number of guests kept coming and going, and Tian Wen's reputation spread to all the vassal states.
All the vassal states sent people to ask Tian Ying to make Tian Wen the crown prince, and Tian Ying agreed.
After Tian Ying's death, he was given the posthumous title of Jing Guojun.
As expected, Tian Wen inherited Tian Ying's title in Xue Yi. This is Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang was in Xue Yi, soliciting guests from various vassal states and people who had committed crimes and fled. Many people joined Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang was willing to give up his family fortune and give them generous treatment, so scholars from all over the world came here to admire his reputation.
He has thousands of diners, and all are treated the same as Tian Wen, regardless of high or low.
Whenever Mr. Mengchang receives guests and sits and talks with them, he always arranges an attendant behind the screen to record the conversation between Mr. Mengchang and the guests, as well as the residence of the guests' relatives.
As soon as the guests left, Lord Mengchang sent envoys to the homes of the guests' relatives to comfort them and offer them gifts.
Once, Meng Changjun entertained guests for dinner, and someone blocked the light. The guest was very annoyed, thinking that the quality of the food must be unequal, so he put down his bowls and chopsticks and was about to say goodbye.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
孟尝君起，自持其饭比之。客惭，自刭。士以此多归孟尝君。
孟尝君客无所择，皆善遇之。
人人各自以为孟尝君亲己。
秦昭王闻其贤，乃先使泾阳君为质於齐，以求见孟尝君。
孟尝君将入秦，宾客莫欲其行，谏，不听。
苏代谓曰： 今旦代从外来，见木禺人与土禺人相与语。
木禺人曰： 天雨，子将败矣。
土禺人曰： 我生於土，败则归土。
今天雨，流子而行，未知所止息也。
今秦，虎狼之国也，而君欲往，如有不得还，君得无为土禺人所笑乎？
孟尝君乃止。
齐湣王二十五年，复卒使孟尝君入秦，昭王即以孟尝君为秦相。
人或说秦昭王曰： 孟尝君贤，而又齐族也，今相秦，必先齐而後秦，秦其危矣。
translation: 
Lord Mengchang immediately stood up and compared his own food with his. The guest was so ashamed that he cut his neck and committed suicide as an apology. Therefore, many of the wise men were willing to join Lord Mengchang.
Mr. Mengchang warmly accepted all the guests who came to his door, without being picky or familiar, and gave them all generous treatment.
Therefore, everyone among the guests thought that Lord Mengchang was close to them.
When King Zhao of Qin heard that Lord Mengchang was a virtuous man, he first sent Lord Jingyang to Qi as a hostage and asked to see Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang was about to go to Qin, but the guests did not approve of his trip and tried to persuade him, but he refused to listen and insisted on going.
At this time, a guest, Su Dai, said to him: I came out this morning and saw a puppet man and a clay puppet talking.
The puppet man said: As soon as it rains, you will collapse.
The earth puppet said: I was born from the earth. Even if it collapses, I will return to the earth.
If it really rains and the water rushes towards you, I don’t know where it will take you.
Today's Qin State is a country as fierce as a tiger or a wolf. If you insist on going there, if you cannot come back, will you not be laughed at by the local puppets?
After hearing this, Lord Mengchang realized the truth and stopped preparing for the trip.
In the twenty-fifth year of King Min of Qi, he finally sent Lord Mengchang to Qin. King Zhao of Qin immediately appointed Lord Mengchang as the prime minister of Qin.
Someone among the officials persuaded the King of Qin: Lord Mengchang is indeed a virtuous man, but he is a member of the Qi clan and now serves as the prime minister of the Qin State. When planning things, he must first plan for the Qi State and then consider the interests of the Qin State. This will put the Qin State in danger.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
於是秦昭王乃止。囚孟尝君，谋欲杀之。
孟尝君使人抵昭王幸姬求解。
幸姬曰： 妾原得君狐白裘。
此时孟尝君有一狐白裘，直千金，天下无双，入秦献之昭王，更无他裘。
孟尝君患之，遍问客，莫能对。
最下坐有能为狗盗者，曰： 臣能得狐白裘。
乃夜为狗，以入秦宫臧中，取所献狐白裘至，以献秦王幸姬。
幸姬为言昭王，昭王释孟尝君。
孟尝君得出，即驰去，更封传，变名姓以出关。
夜半至函谷关。
秦昭王後悔出孟尝君，求之已去，即使人驰传逐之。
孟尝君至关，关法鸡鸣而出客，孟尝君恐追至，客之居下坐者有能为鸡鸣，而鸡齐鸣，遂发传出。
出如食顷，秦追果至关，已後孟尝君出，乃还。
translation: 
So King Zhao of Qin dismissed Lord Mengchang from his position as prime minister.
He imprisoned Lord Mengchang and wanted to kill Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang knew that the situation was critical, so he sent someone to see King Zhao's concubine to ask for help.
The concubine made a condition and said: I hope to get Lord Mengchang's white fox fur. When Lord Mengchang came, he brought with him a white fox fur, which was worth thousands of gold. There was no second one in the world. When he arrived in Qin, he presented it to King Zhao, and there was no other fur.
Lord Mengchang was worried about this matter. He asked all the guests, but no one could think of a solution.
There was a man who was not very capable but could steal things in dog skins. He said: I can get that white fox fur.
So that night, he disguised himself as a dog, went into the warehouse of the Qin Palace, took out the fox white fur that was presented to King Zhao, and took it back and presented it to King Zhao's concubine.
After getting the concubine, she interceded with King Zhao on behalf of Lord Mengchang, and King Zhao released Lord Mengchang.
After Mengchangjun was released, he immediately fled by express train, changed his exit certificate, changed his name and escaped from the city pass.
We arrived at Hangu Pass at midnight.
King Zhao regretted releasing Lord Mengchang and sent people to look for him again. When he found that he had escaped, he immediately sent people to chase him.
Mengchangjun and his party arrived at Hangu Pass. According to the customs law, guests can only be let out when the rooster crows. Mengchangjun was worried that his pursuers would arrive. Among the guests, there was a person who was of low rank but could imitate the rooster's crow. As soon as he imitated the rooster's crow, the nearby chickens also crowed, and he immediately showed his documents and escaped from Hangu Pass.
After about a meal after leaving the pass, Qin's pursuers arrived at Hangu Pass, but fell behind Lord Mengchang, so they had to go back.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
始孟尝君列此二人於宾客，宾客尽羞之，及孟尝君有秦难，卒此二人拔之。
自是之後，客皆服。孟尝君过赵，赵平原君客之。
赵人闻孟尝君贤，出观之，皆笑曰： 始以薛公为魁然也，今视之，乃眇小丈夫耳。
孟尝君闻之，怒。
客与俱者下，斫击杀数百人，遂灭一县以去。
齐湣王不自得，以其遣孟尝君。
孟尝君至，则以为齐相，任政。
孟尝君怨秦，将以齐为韩、魏攻楚，因与韩、魏攻秦，而借兵食於西周。
苏代为西周谓曰： 君以齐为韩、魏攻楚九年，取宛、叶以北以彊韩、魏，今复攻秦以益之。
韩、魏南无楚忧，西无秦患，则齐危矣。
韩、魏必轻齐畏秦，臣为君危之。
translation: 
When Lord Mengchang accepted these two people as guests, the guests all felt ashamed and disgraced. When Lord Mengchang suffered a disaster in Qin, he finally relied on these two people to escape.
From then on, the guests all admired Mengchangjun's approach of recruiting guests regardless of their status. Lord Mengchang passed by the State of Zhao, and Lord Pingyuan of the State of Zhao treated him as a distinguished guest.
When the people of Zhao heard about Mengchang's talents, they all came out to watch and see him. When they saw him, they all laughed and said: "I thought Mengchang was a tall man, but now I see him, he is just a skinny man."
Mengchangjun was very angry after hearing these teasing words.
The guests who were traveling with him jumped out of the car, killed hundreds of people, and left after destroying a county.
King Qi Min felt guilty for sending Lord Mengchang to Qin.
After Lord Mengchang returned to Qi State, the King of Qi made him prime minister of Qi State and in charge of state affairs.
Lord Mengchang resented Qin and planned to unite South Korea and Wei to attack Qin on the grounds that Qi had helped South Korea and Wei attack Chu. To this end, he borrowed weapons and rations from the Western Zhou Dynasty.
On behalf of the Western Zhou Dynasty, Su said to Lord Mengchang: You used the troops of Qi to help Han and Wei attack Chu for nine years, and gained the area north of Wan and Ye. As a result, Han and Wei became stronger. Now if you attack Qin, it will further strengthen the power of Han and Wei.
If South Korea and Wei have no worries from Chu in the south, and no troubles from Qin in the north, then Qi will be in danger.
When Korea and Wei become stronger, they will despise Qi and fear Qin. I really feel uneasy about this situation for you.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
君不如令敝邑深合於秦，而君无攻，又无借兵食。
君临函谷而无攻，令敝邑以君之情谓秦昭王曰 薛公必不破秦以彊韩、魏。
其攻秦也，欲王之令楚王割东国以与齐，而秦出楚怀王以为和 。
君令敝邑以此惠秦，秦得无破而以东国自免也，秦必欲之。
楚王得出，必德齐。
齐得东国益彊，而薛世世无患矣。
秦不大弱，而处三晋之西，三晋必重齐。
薛公曰： 善。
因令韩、魏贺秦，使三国无攻，而不借兵食於西周矣。
是时，楚怀王入秦，秦留之，故欲必出之。
秦不果出楚怀王。
孟尝君相齐，其舍人魏子为孟尝君收邑入，三反而不致一入。
孟尝君问之，对曰： 有贤者，窃假与之，以故不致入。
translation: 
It is better for you to let the Western Zhou Dynasty have a deep friendship with Qin State. You should not attack Qin State and do not borrow weapons and food.
You send your army to Hangu Pass but do not attack. Let the Western Zhou Dynasty tell King Zhao of Qin your feelings and say that Duke Xue will definitely not attack Qin to strengthen the power of Han and Wei.
His purpose in attacking Qin was just to ask the king to instruct Chu to cede the Eastern Kingdom to Qi, and to ask you to release King Huai of Chu to reach a reconciliation.
You asked the Western Zhou Dynasty to use this method to benefit Qin. Qin could not be attacked and used Chu's territory to protect itself. Qin must want to do this.
If the King of Chu could be released, he would definitely be grateful to the State of Qi.
The Qi State will naturally become stronger and stronger after acquiring the Dong Kingdom, and Xue Yi will be free from worries for generations.
Qin will not be overly weakened, and it is located to the west of South Korea and Wei. South Korea and Wei must rely on Qi.
After hearing this, Lord Mengchang immediately said: "Okay."
So Han and Wei were asked to congratulate Qin, which prevented a military disaster. Qi, Han, and Wei no longer sent troops to attack, and Qi stopped borrowing weapons and rations from the Western Zhou Dynasty.
At this time, King Huai of Chu had already arrived in Qin, and Qin detained him, so Lord Mengchang must ask Qin to release him.
But Qin did not do this.
When Mengchang Jun was the prime minister of Qi, his attendant Wei Zi went to collect the tax from the feudal city for him. He made three trips back and forth, but he never got the tax back once.
Lord Mengchang asked him what was the reason for this, and Wei Zi replied: There is a virtuous man. I donated the tax to him privately in your name, so I did not take it back.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
孟尝君怒而退魏子。
居数年，人或毁孟尝君於齐湣王曰： 孟尝君将为乱。
及田甲劫湣王，湣王意疑孟尝君，孟尝君乃奔。
魏子所与粟贤者闻之，乃上书言孟尝君不作乱，请以身为盟，遂自刭宫门以明孟尝君。
湣王乃惊，而踪迹验问，孟尝君果无反谋，乃复召孟尝君。
孟尝君因谢病，归老於薛。
湣王许之。
其後，秦亡将吕礼相齐，欲困苏代。
代乃谓孟尝君曰： 周最於齐，至厚也，而齐王逐之，而听亲弗相吕礼者，欲取秦也。
齐、秦合，则亲弗与吕礼重矣。
有用，齐、秦必轻君。
君不如急北兵，趋赵以和秦、魏，收周最以厚行，且反齐王之信，又禁天下之变。
translation: 
After hearing this, Lord Mengchang became angry and dismissed Wei Zi.
A few years later, someone spread rumors about Lord Mengchang to King Min of Qi, saying that Lord Mengchang was about to launch a rebellion.
When Tian Junjia kidnapped King Min, King Min suspected that it was Master Mengchang who planned it, and fled to avoid disaster.
The sage who had received food as a gift from Wei Zi heard about this and wrote to King Min to state that Lord Mengchang would not cause rebellion and asked for his own life as a guarantee. He then cut his neck and committed suicide at the gate of the palace to prove Lord Mengchang's innocence.
King Min was shocked, so he investigated and inquired about the actual situation. As expected, Lord Mengchang had no rebellion conspiracy, so he recalled Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang therefore excused himself from illness and asked to resign and return to Xue Yi to retire.
King Min agreed to his request.
After that, Qin's fugitive general Lu Li came to Qi to serve as Qi's prime minister. He wanted to put Su Dai in trouble.
Su Dai said to Lord Mengchang: Zhou Zui was extremely loyal to the King of Qi, but the King of Qi expelled him and listened to the advice of his relatives and made Lu Li the prime minister. The reason was that he planned to unite with Qin.
If Qi and Qin unite, then Qin Fu and Lu Li will be reused.
If they are used in important positions, Qi and Qin will definitely despise you.
You might as well march north quickly, attack Zhao Zhao to make Qin and Wei make peace, and recruit Zhou Zui to show your kindness. You can also restore the reputation of King Qi and prevent the world's current situation from changing.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
齐无秦，则天下集齐，亲弗必走，则齐王孰与为其国也！
於是孟尝君从其计，而吕礼嫉害於孟尝君。
孟尝君惧，乃遗秦相穰侯魏厓书曰： 吾闻秦欲以吕礼收齐，齐，天下之彊国也，子必轻矣。
齐秦相取以临三晋，吕礼必并相矣，是子通齐以重吕礼也。
若齐免於天下之兵，其雠子必深矣。
子不如劝秦王伐齐。
齐破，吾请以所得封子。
齐破，秦畏晋之彊，秦必重子以取晋。
晋国敝於齐而畏秦，晋必重子以取秦。
是子破齐以为功，挟晋以为重；是子破齐定封，秦、晋交重子。
若齐不破，吕礼复用，子必大穷。
於是穰侯言於秦昭王伐齐，而吕礼亡。
後齐湣王灭宋，益骄，欲去孟尝君。
translation: 
If the State of Qi does not rely on the State of Qin, then all the princes will join the State of Qi, and their relatives will inevitably flee. In this case, who else can the King of Qi rule the country with besides you?
So Lord Mengchang followed Su Dai's plan, so Lu Li was jealous and wanted to murder Lord Mengchang.
Lord Mengchang was very frightened, so he wrote a letter to Qin Prime Minister Ranghou Wei Ran, saying: I heard that Qin is planning to let Lu Li come to unite Qi. Qi is a powerful country in the world. If Qi and Qin unite successfully, Lu Li will gain power, and you will be despised by the king of Qin.
If the prime ministers of Qin and Qi form an alliance to deal with Han, Zhao and Wei, then Lu Li will definitely become the prime minister of Qin and Qi. This is because your friendship with Qi will make Lu Li's status more important.
Besides, even if the Qi State is protected from the military disaster caused by the attacks of the feudal states, the Qi State will still hate you deeply.
You might as well persuade King Qin to attack Qi.
If Qi is conquered, I will try to ask the King of Qin to grant you the land of Qi.
Qi has been conquered, and the Qin State is afraid that Wei will become stronger. The King of Qin will definitely use you to make friends with Wei.
Wei was defeated by Qi and was afraid of Qin, so it favored you in order to make friends with Qin.
In this way, you can not only establish your own merits by conquering Qi State and take advantage of Wei's improved status; you can also conquer Qi State and obtain a fiefdom, making both Qin and Wei respect you at the same time.
If Qi is not conquered and Lu Li is appointed again, you will be in an extreme dilemma.
So Marquis Rang proposed to King Zhao of Qin to attack Qi, and Lu Li fled Qi.
Later, King Qi Min destroyed the Song Dynasty, became more and more proud, and planned to get rid of Lord Mengchang.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
孟尝君恐，乃如魏。
魏昭王以为相，西合於秦、赵，与燕共伐破齐。
齐湣王亡在莒，遂死焉。
齐襄王立，而孟尝君中立於诸侯，无所属。
齐襄王新立，畏孟尝君，与连和，复亲薛公。
文卒，谥为孟尝君。
诸子争立，而齐魏共灭薛。
孟尝绝嗣无後也。
初，冯驩闻孟尝君好客，蹑蹻而见之。
孟尝君曰； 先生远辱，何以教文也？
冯驩曰： 闻君好士，以贫身归於君。
孟尝君置传舍十日，孟尝君问传舍长曰： 客何所为？
答曰： 冯先生甚贫，犹有一剑耳，又蒯缑。
弹其剑而歌曰 长铗归来乎，食无鱼 。
孟尝君迁之幸舍，食有鱼矣。
translation: 
Lord Mengchang was very frightened and ran to the state of Wei.
King Zhao of Wei appointed him as prime minister, and joined forces with Qin and Zhao in the west to help Yan attack and defeat Qi.
King Qi Min fled to Ju County and finally died there.
When King Xiang of Qi came to the throne, Lord Mengchang held a neutral position among the vassal states and was not subordinate to any country.
Because King Qi Xiang had just ascended the throne, he was afraid of Lord Mengchang, so he reconciled with Lord Mengchang and became close to him.
After Tian Wen passed away, his posthumous title was Lord Mengchang.
Tian Wen's sons competed to inherit the title, and then Qi and Wei jointly destroyed Xue Yi.
Lord Mengchang cut off his heirs and had no descendants.
At first, Feng Chen heard that Lord Mengchang was willing to invite guests, so he came all the way to see him wearing straw sandals.
Lord Mengchang said: Thank you for coming from afar, sir. Is there anything you would like to teach me?
Feng Chen replied: I heard that you are willing to support scholars. I just want to join you because I am poor.
Mengchangjun placed him in the residence of a low-class diner without saying anything else. Ten days later, Mengchangjun asked the person in charge of the residence: "What has the guest done recently?"
The person in charge replied: Mr. Feng is too poor and only has one sword with a straw rope wrapped around the handle.
He would knock the sword from time to time and sing, "O long sword, let's go home!" There is no fish for dinner.
After hearing this, Lord Mengchang asked Feng Xuan to move to the residence of a middle-class diner, so that he could have more food.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
五日，又问传舍长。答曰： 客复弹剑而歌曰 长铗归来乎，出无舆 。
孟尝君迁之代舍，出入乘舆车矣。
五日，孟尝君复问传舍长。
舍长答曰： 先生又尝弹剑而歌曰 长铗归来乎，无以为家 。
孟尝君不悦。
居期年，冯驩无所言。
孟尝君时相齐，封万户於薛。
其食客三千人。邑入不足以奉客，使人出钱於薛。
岁馀不入，贷钱者多不能与其息，客奉将不给。
孟尝君忧之，问左右： 何人可使收债於薛者？
传舍长曰： 代舍客冯公形容状貌甚辩，长者，无他伎能，宜可令收债。
孟尝君乃进冯驩而请之曰： 宾客不知文不肖，幸临文者三千馀人，邑入不足以奉宾客，故出息钱於薛。
薛岁不入，民颇不与其息。
今客食恐不给，原先生责之。 冯驩曰； 诺。
辞行，至薛，召取孟尝君钱者皆会，得息钱十万。
translation: 
Five days later, Mengchangjun asked the person in charge about Feng Xuan again. The person in charge replied: The guest played the sword again and sang, "Long sword, let's go back!" There is no car when going out.
So Lord Mengchang moved Feng Xuan to the residence of a high-class diner, and there were cars for him to go in and out.
Five days later, Mengchangjun asked the person in charge again.
The person in charge replied: This gentleman once played the sword and sang, "O long sword, let's go home!" No way to feed the family.
Mengchangjun was very unhappy after hearing this.
A whole year passed, and Feng Xuan said nothing.
Mengchangjun was serving as the prime minister of Qi at that time and was granted the title of Ten Thousand Households in Xue Yi.
He had as many as 3,000 diners, and the tax revenue from the city was not enough to support so many diners, so he sent people to Xue Yi to lend money.
Since the weather is not good all year round and there is no harvest, most of the people who borrow money cannot pay the interest, and the needs of the diners will not be provided.
Regarding this situation, Lord Mengchang was anxious and asked his attendants: Who can be sent to Xue Yi to collect debts?
The person in charge of the residence said: Judging from his appearance, Mr. Feng in the Superior Diner's residence is very shrewd and an elder. He must be steady. It would be appropriate to send him to collect debts.
Lord Mengchang then welcomed Feng Chen and asked him: "The guests don't know that I am incompetent. There are more than 3,000 people who come to my door. Now the income of the city cannot support the guests, so I lent some debts in Xue."
However, Xue Yi's year was not good, there was no harvest, and most of the people could not pay the interest.
I'm afraid it will be a problem for the guests to eat. I hope that sir will collect the debt on my behalf. Feng Xuan said: Okay.
Then he said goodbye to Lord Mengchang, and when he arrived at Xue Yi, he gathered all the people who had borrowed money from Lord Mengchang and demanded one hundred thousand dollars in interest on their debts.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
乃多酿酒，买肥牛，召诸取钱者，能与息者皆来，不能与息者亦来，皆持取钱之券书合之。
齐为会，日杀牛置酒。
酒酣，乃持券如前合之，能与息者，与为期；贫不能与息者，取其券而烧之。
曰： 孟尝君所以贷钱者，为民之无者以为本业也；所以求息者，为无以奉客也。
今富给者以要期，贫穷者燔券书以捐之。
诸君彊饮食。
有君如此，岂可负哉！
坐者皆起，再拜。
孟尝君闻冯驩烧券书，怒而使使召驩。
驩至，孟尝君曰： 文食客三千人，故贷钱於薛。
文奉邑少，而民尚多不以时与其息，客食恐不足，故请先生收责之。
闻先生得钱，即以多具牛酒而烧券书，何？
translation: 
He didn't send the money back, but he made a lot of wine and bought fat cattle. Then he called the borrowers, including those who could pay the interest, and those who couldn't. He asked them all to bring the loan deed for verification.
Then everyone was invited to attend the banquet. On the same day, a cow was killed and stewed, and a banquet was prepared.
At the banquet, when everyone was drinking and enjoying themselves, Feng Chen walked up to the banquet with the deeds and checked them one by one. Those who could pay the interest would be given a time limit; those who were too poor to pay the interest would take back their deeds and burn them in public.
Then he said to everyone: The reason why Lord Mengchang asked everyone for loans was to provide funds for people without funds to engage in industrial production; the reason why he asked everyone for debts was because he had no money to support the guests.
Nowadays, the rich and wealthy can repay their debts on the agreed date, while the poor and unable to repay their debts burn the deeds and cancel all debts.
Please enjoy your drink.
With such a fiefdom master, how could we turn our backs on him in the future?
Everyone sitting there stood up and knelt down twice in a row.
When Lord Mengchang heard that Feng Chen had burned the deed, he was very angry and immediately sent someone to recall Feng Chen.
As soon as Feng Chen arrived, Lord Mengchang asked: "I have three thousand diners, so I lend money in Xue Yi."
My fiefdom is small to begin with, but the people still do not repay the interest on time, and the guests are afraid that they will not have enough to eat, so I asked you, sir, to collect the debts.
I heard that after receiving the money, my husband held a banquet of wine and meat and burned the deed. Why is this?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
冯驩曰： 然。
不多具牛酒即不能毕会，无以知其有馀不足。
有馀者，为要期。
不足者，虽守而责之十年，息愈多，急，即以逃亡自捐之。
若急，终无以偿，上则为君好利不爱士民，下则有离上抵负之名，非所以厉士民彰君声也。
焚无用虚债之券，捐不可得之虚计，令薛民亲君而彰君之善声也，君有何疑焉！
孟尝君乃拊手而谢之。
齐王惑於秦、楚之毁，以为孟尝君名高其主而擅齐国之权，遂废孟尝君。
诸客见孟尝君废，皆去。
冯驩曰： 借臣车一乘，可以入秦者，必令君重於国而奉邑益广，可乎？
孟尝君乃约车币而遣之。
translation: 
Feng Xuan replied: Yes.
If there is no way to gather all the debtors together without throwing a feast of wine and meat, there will be no way to know who is rich and who is poor.
If he is wealthy, he will be given a set date to repay his debts.
The poor will not be able to repay their debts even if they are detained for ten years. The longer the time, the higher the interest.
If you are too hasty, they will not be able to repay you in the end. On the one hand, you will be thought to be greedy for small profits and not caring for the people. On the other hand, the people will have a reputation of abandoning the emperor and relying on debts. This is not a way to encourage scholars and people and show your reputation.
I burned the useless IOUs and discarded the nominal account books to make the common people of Xue Yi trust you and promote your good reputation for kindness. What else do you have to doubt?
After hearing this, Lord Mengchang clapped his hands and thanked him repeatedly.
The King of Qi was bewitched by the slanderous remarks of Qin and Chu, and believed that Lord Mengchang's reputation was higher than his own and that he would monopolize the power of Qi, so he dismissed Lord Mengchang from his official position.
When the guests saw that Lord Mengchang had been dismissed, they all left him.
Only Feng Xuan planned for him and said: Lend me a car and let me go to Qin. I will definitely make you more prominent in Qi and your city will be wider. Do you think it's okay?
So Mengchangjun prepared a carriage and gifts to send Feng Xuan on the road.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
冯驩乃西说秦王曰： 天下之游士冯轼结靷西入秦者，无不欲彊秦而弱齐；冯轼结靷东入齐者，无不欲彊齐而弱秦。
此雄雌之国也，势不两立为雄，雄者得天下矣。
秦王跽而问之曰： 何以使秦无为雌而可？
冯驩曰： 王亦知齐之废孟尝君乎？
秦王曰： 闻之。
冯驩曰： 使齐重於天下者，孟尝君也。
今齐王以毁废之，其心怨，必背齐；背齐入秦，则齐国之情，人事之诚，尽委之秦，齐地可得也，岂直为雄也！
君急使使载币阴迎孟尝君，不可失时也。
如有齐觉悟，复用孟尝君，则雌雄之所在未可知也。
秦王大悦，乃遣车十乘黄金百镒以迎孟尝君。
冯驩辞以先行，至齐，说齐王曰： 天下之游士冯轼结靷东入齐者，无不欲彊齐而弱秦者；冯轼结靷西入秦者，无不欲彊秦而弱齐者。
夫秦齐雄雌之国，秦彊则齐弱矣，此势不两雄。
今臣窃闻秦遣使车十乘载黄金百镒以迎孟尝君。
孟尝君不西则已，西入相秦则天下归之，秦为雄而齐为雌，雌则临淄、即墨危矣。
王何不先秦使之未到，复孟尝君，而益与之邑以谢之？
孟尝君必喜而受之。
秦虽彊国，岂可以请人相而迎之哉！
折秦之谋，而绝其霸彊之略。
齐王曰： 善。
乃使人至境候秦使。
秦使车適入齐境，使还驰告之，王召孟尝君而复其相位，而与其故邑之地，又益以千户。
秦之使者闻孟尝君复相齐，还车而去矣。
自齐王毁废孟尝君，诸客皆去。
後召而复之，冯驩迎之。
translation: 
Feng Chen then drove west to the state of Qin to lobby the king of Qin, saying: All lobbyists in the world who drive west to the state of Qin all want to make Qin strong and make Qi weak; everyone who rides east to enter the state of Qi all want to make Qi strong and make Qin weak.
These are two countries with no distinction between superior and inferior. It is impossible for them to stand side by side and dominate. The one who dominates can unify the world.
The King of Qin was fascinated by what he heard. He straightened up and knelt down and asked Feng Xuan: "What do you think should be done to prevent Qin from becoming a weak country?"
Feng Chen replied: Your Majesty also knows that the State of Qi has dismissed Lord Mengchang from his position, right?
King Qin said: I heard about this.
Feng Xuan said: The person who made Qi respected by the world was Lord Mengchang.
Now that the king of Qi has listened to the slander and dismissed Lord Mengchang, Lord Mengchang is extremely resentful and will definitely betray Qi. If he betrays Qi and enters Qin, then the national conditions of Qi and the situation in the court, from the king to the officials, will be under the control of Qin.
You will get the entire land of Qi, and you will be more than just the hero! Hurry up and send an envoy with gifts to meet Lord Mengchang secretly. Don't miss this opportunity.
If King Qi comes to his senses and appoints Lord Mengchang again, then it is impossible to predict who will win or lose.
The King of Qin was very happy after hearing this, and sent ten carriages carrying a hundred yi gold to meet Lord Mengchang.
Feng Xuan said goodbye to the King of Qin and rushed to the State of Qi ahead of the envoy. When he arrived at the State of Qi, he persuaded the King of Qi: The lobbyists from all over the world who drive east to Qi State all want to make Qi strong and make Qin weak; those who ride west to Qin State all want to make Qin strong and make Qi weak.
Qin and Qi are equally superior and inferior. If Qin is strong, Qi must be weak. These two countries will inevitably not be able to dominate at the same time.
Now I heard privately that the Qin State has sent an envoy with ten carriages carrying a hundred yi gold to greet Lord Mengchang.
It's fine if Lord Mengchang doesn't go west. If he goes west and serves as the prime minister of Qin, then the world will belong to Qin. If Qin becomes the lord, Qi will have no choice but to succumb to it. Then Linzi and Jimo will be in danger.
Why didn't the king quickly restore Mengchang to his official position and increase his fiefdom to apologize to him before the Qin envoy arrived?
If this is done, Lord Mengchang will be happy and willing to accept it.
Although Qin is a powerful country, how can it arbitrarily go to other countries to welcome other people's prime ministers?
It is necessary to thwart Qin's conspiracy and cut off its plan to seek strength and hegemony.
After hearing this, King Qi immediately understood and said: OK.
So he sent people to the border to wait for the Qin envoy.
As soon as the Qin envoy's car entered the Qi border, the Qi envoy at the border immediately changed his car and drove back to report the situation. The King of Qi recalled Mengchang Jun and restored his position as prime minister. At the same time, he also gave him the land of the original fiefdom and added a thousand households to him.
When the envoy from Qin heard that Lord Mengchang had restored his position as prime minister of Qi, he changed his carriage and went back.
Since the King of Qi dismissed Lord Mengchang because of the slander, all the guests have left him.
Later, the King of Qi recalled and restored Lord Mengchang to his official position, and Feng Chen went to greet him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
未到，孟尝君太息叹曰： 文常好客，遇客无所敢失，食客三千有馀人，先生所知也。
客见文一日废，皆背文而去，莫顾文者。
今赖先生得复其位，客亦有何面目复见文乎？
如复见文者，必唾其面而大辱之。
冯驩结辔下拜。
孟尝君下车接之，曰： 先生为客谢乎？
冯驩曰： 非为客谢也，为君之言失。
夫物有必至，事有固然，君知之乎？
孟尝君曰： 愚不知所谓也。
曰： 生者必有死，物之必至也；富贵多士，贫贱寡友，事之固然也。
君独不见夫趣市者乎？
明旦，侧肩争门而入；日暮之後，过市朝者掉臂而不顾。
非好朝而恶暮，所期物忘其中。
今君失位，宾客皆去，不足以怨士而徒绝宾客之路。
原君遇客如故。
translation: 
Before arriving in the capital, Mengchang Jun sighed deeply and said: I always like to make friends with guests and take care of people. I never dare to be rude when receiving guests. There are more than 3,000 diners, as you know, sir.
As soon as the guests saw that I was dismissed from office, they all turned their backs on me and left. No one cared about me.
Now that I have been restored to my position as prime minister thanks to my husband, how can those departing guests have the dignity to see me again?
If anyone sees me again, I will spit on his face and humiliate him severely.
After hearing these words, Feng Xuan stopped the reins, got off the car and bowed.
Mr. Mengchang also immediately got out of the car and returned the courtesy, saying: Sir, are you apologizing for those guests?
Feng Xuan said: I'm not apologizing for the guests, it's because your words were wrong.
Generally speaking, everything has its inevitable end, and everything in the world has its routine. Do you understand the meaning of this sentence?
Lord Mengchang said: I don’t understand what you mean.
Feng Xuan said: All living things will die at some point. This is the inevitable result of living things. Rich people have many guests, while poor people have few friends. This is how it is.
Don't you see people rushing to the market?
At dawn, people crowded into the market, squaring their shoulders to get in; after sunset, people passing by the market waved their arms without even looking back.
It's not that people like morning and hate evening, but because what they expected is no longer available in the East and West markets.
Now that you have lost your official position and all your guests have left, you cannot resent your guests and cut off their access to you.
I hope you treat your guests like you used to.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
孟尝君再拜曰： 敬从命矣。
闻先生之言，敢不奉教焉。
太史公曰：吾尝过薛，其俗闾里率多暴桀子弟，与邹、鲁殊。
问其故，曰： 孟尝君招致天下任侠，奸人入薛中盖六万馀家矣。
世之传孟尝君好客自喜，名不虚矣。
translation: 
Lord Mengchang bowed down twice and said, "I respectfully follow your advice."
Listen to your teacher, do you dare to accept instruction without respect?
Tai Shigong said: I once passed through Xuedi, where the folk customs were very different from those in Zoudi and Lu.
I asked the people there what was the reason for this, and they said: Lord Mengchang once attracted many righteous people from all over the world, and there were probably more than 60,000 people who violated laws and regulations and entered Xuedi alone.
It is said that Mr. Mengchang was very proud of his pleasure in entertaining guests, and his reputation was indeed well-deserved.


