Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 5, 9, 1]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦婴字王孙，孝文皇后从兄子也。
父世观津人也。喜宾客。
孝文时为吴相，病免。
孝景即位，为詹事。
帝弟梁孝王，母窦太后爱之。
孝王朝，因燕昆弟饮。
是时，上未立太子，酒酣，上从容曰： 千秋万岁后传王。
太后欢。
婴引卮酒进上曰： 天下者，高祖天下，父子相传，汉之约也，上何以得传梁王！
太后由此憎婴。婴亦薄其官，因病免。
太后除婴门籍，不得朝请。
孝景三年，吴、楚反、上察宗室诸窦无如婴贤，召入见，固让谢，称病不足任。
太后亦惭。
于是上曰： 天下方有急，王孙宁可以让邪？
乃拜婴为大将军，赐金千斤。
婴言爰盎、栾布诸名将贤士在家者进之。
所赐金，陈廊庑下，军吏过，辄令财取为用，金无入家者。
婴守荥阳，监齐、赵兵。
七国破，封为魏其侯。
游士宾客争归之。
每朝议大事，条侯、魏其，列侯莫敢与亢礼。
四年，立栗太子，以婴为傅。
七年，栗太子废，婴争弗能得，谢病，屏居蓝田南山下数月，诸窦宾客辩士说，莫能来。
梁人高遂乃说婴曰： 能富贵将军者，上也；能亲将军者，太后也。
今将军傅太子，太子废，争不能拔，又不能死，自引谢病，拥赵女屏闲处而不朝，只加怼自明，扬主之过。
有如两宫奭将军，则妻子无类矣。
婴然之，乃起，朝请如故。
桃侯免相，窦太后数言魏其。
translation: 
Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin.
Tracing back to his father, he has lived in Guanjin for generations and likes to entertain guests.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Baoying was the prime minister of Wu State, but was dismissed due to illness.
Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne and appointed Dou Ying as Zhan Shi.
Emperor Xiaojing's younger brother, King Liang Xiao, was doted on by his mother, Queen Mother Dou.
Once, when King Xiao of Liang entered the court, Emperor Xiaojing drank with his brothers.
There was no crown prince at this time, and when everyone had finished drinking, Emperor Xiaojing said calmly: After my death, I will pass the throne to King Liang.
Queen Mother Dou was very happy to hear this.
At this time, Dou Ying brought a glass of wine to the emperor and said: The world belongs to Emperor Gaozu, and the throne should be passed down from father to son. This is a legal restriction of the Han Dynasty. How can the emperor pass it on to King Liang?
The Queen Mother hated Bao Ying because of this, and Dou Ying also felt that Zhan Shi's official position was too young, so she resigned due to illness.
The Empress Dowager then removed the name list that allowed Dou Ying to enter and leave the palace. During festivals, he was not allowed to enter the palace to see him.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wu and Chu rebelled. At this time, the emperor investigated and found that neither the Liu clan nor the Dou family members were as wise as Dou Ying, so he recruited Dou Ying. After Dou Ying came to see him, he resolutely declined, saying that he was ill and could not take on this important task.
The Queen Mother also felt ashamed.
The emperor said: "Now the world is in crisis, how can Wang Sun refuse?"
So he made Dou Ying a general and rewarded him with a thousand pieces of gold.
At this time, Yuan An, Le Bu and other famous generals and wise men retired from their posts and stayed at home, so Dou Ying recommended them to Emperor Jing to recruit them.
Dou Ying placed all the gold given to him by the emperor in the hallway. Whenever his military officials came to see him, he would ask them to use the gold according to their own expenses. He never took the gold given by the emperor to his private residence.
Dou Ying sat in Rongyang and supervised the armies of Qi and Zhao.
After the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms was put down, Dou Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Wei.
At this time, many tourists and guests rushed to join Wei Qihou's family.
Whenever Emperor Xiaojing went to court to discuss important matters with his ministers, all the princes would not dare to treat him with courtesy like Tiaohou and Wei Qihou.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he established Prince Li and ordered Wei Qihou to be the prince's teacher.
In the seventh year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Prince Li was deposed. Wei Qihou argued for Prince Li many times, but to no avail. Wei Qihou claimed that he was ill and stayed at the foot of Nanshan Mountain in Lantian for several months. People named Dou, many guests and debaters asked him to come out, but he was unwilling to come out.
Liang Guoren Zhisui said to Bin Ying: The one who can make you rich is the emperor, and the one who can make you a confidant of the court is the Queen Mother.
Now the general is the master of the prince. The prince has been deposed and cannot fight for it. He cannot fight hard and cannot die. He retires due to illness, embraces a beautiful singer, and lives in Nanshan, refusing to go to the capital to see him.
Comparing these situations, it is obvious that you are exposing the emperor's fault.
If the emperor and the queen mother are dissatisfied with you and want to harm you, then your wife and children will be killed, and no one in the family will be left.
Dou Ying thought what he said was right, so he resumed his duties and went to court to see the emperor as before.
summary:
Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin. He lived in Guanjin and enjoyed entertaining guests. During Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he served as prime minister of Wu State but was dismissed due to illness. Under Emperor Xiaojing, he became Zhan Shi. When Emperor Xiaojing offered the throne to his brother King Liang Xiao, Dou Ying objected, citing Han law that the throne must pass from father to son. This angered Queen Mother Dou, leading to Dou Ying's resignation and exclusion from court. In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, during the Wu-Chu rebellion, Dou Ying was appointed general and granted gold, which he distributed to his officers. After suppressing the rebellion, he was made Marquis of Wei. He later served as the prince's teacher but argued for the deposed prince, leading to his retirement. Persuaded by Zhisui, he resumed his duties. Despite Queen Mother Dou's recommendations, Emperor Xiaojing refused to make Dou Ying prime minister, citing his pride and rashness.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
景帝曰： 太后岂以臣有爱相魏其者？
魏其沾沾自喜耳，多易，难以为相持重。
遂不用，用建陵侯卫绾为丞相。
田蚡，孝景王皇后同母弟也，生长陵。
窦婴已为大将军，方盛，蚡为诸曹郎，未贵，往来侍酒婴所，跪起如子姓。
及孝景晚节，蚡益贵幸，为中大夫。
辩有口，学《盘盂》诸书，王皇后贤之。
孝景崩，武帝初即位，蚡以舅封为武安侯，弟胜为周阳侯。
蚡新用事，卑下宾客，进名士家居者贵之，欲以倾诸将相。
上所填抚，多蚡宾客计策。
会丞相绾病免，上议置丞相、太尉。
藉福说蚡曰： 魏其侯贵久矣，素天下士归之。
今将军初兴，未如，即上以将军为相，必让魏其。
魏其为相，将军必为太尉。
太尉、相尊等耳，有让贤名。
蚡乃微言太后风上，于是乃以婴为丞相，蚡为太尉。
藉福贺婴，因吊曰： 君侯资性喜善疾恶，方今善人誉君侯，故至丞相；然恶人众，亦且毁君侯。
君侯能兼容，则幸久；不能，今以毁去矣。
婴不听。
婴、蚡俱好儒术，推毂赵绾为御史大夫，王臧为郎中令。
迎鲁申公，欲设明堂，令列侯就国，除关，以礼为服制，以兴太平。
举谪诸窦宗室无行者，除其属籍。
诸外家为列侯，列侯多尚公主，皆不欲就国，以故毁日至窦太后。
太后好黄、老言，而婴、蚡、赵绾等务隆推儒术，贬道家言，是以窦太后滋不说。
二年，御史大夫赵绾请毋奏事东宫。
窦太后大怒，曰： 此欲复为新垣平邪！
乃罢逐赵绾、王臧，而免丞相婴、太尉蚡，以柏至侯许昌为丞相，武强侯庄青翟为御史大夫。
婴、蚡以侯家居。
蚡虽不任职，以王太后故亲幸，数言事，多效，士吏趋势利者皆去婴而归蚡。
蚡日益横。
六年，窦太后崩，丞相昌、御史大夫青翟坐丧事不办，免。
上以蚡为丞相，大司农韩安国为御史大夫。
天下士郡诸侯愈益附蚡。
蚡为人貌侵，生贵甚。
又以为诸侯王多长，上初即位，富于春秋，蚡以肺附为相，非痛折节以礼屈之，天下不肃。
当是时，丞相入奏事，语移日，所言皆听。
荐人或起家至二千石，权移主上。
上乃曰： 君除吏尽未？
吾亦欲除吏。
尝请考工地益宅，上怒曰： 遂取武库！
translation: 
When Taohou was removed from his position midway, Empress Dowager Dou repeatedly recommended Wei Qihou to be the prime minister. Emperor Xiaojing said: Does the Queen Mother think that I am stingy by not letting Wei Qihou become prime minister?
Wei Qihou was proud and complacent, and often acted rashly and casually. It was difficult for him to be the prime minister and shoulder important responsibilities.
In the end, he was not appointed, but Wei Wan, Marquis of Jianling, was appointed as prime minister.
Tian Fu was the half-brother of Emperor Xiaojing and Queen Wang, and was born in Changling.
After Dou Ying became the general, he was in his prime. Tian Fu, then a minister and not yet a nobleman, went to and from Dou Ying's house, accompanying Yi Ying to drink, kneeling and rising, as if he were a junior member of the Dou family.
In the later years of Emperor Xiaojing's life, Danxuan became more and more noble and fortunate, and became a middle-aged doctor.
Tian Fu was very talented in literature and had studied some ancient books such as "Pan Yu". Queen Wang thought he was very talented.
Emperor Xiaojing passed away and Emperor Wu Liu Che had just ascended the throne. Tian Fu was named Marquis of Wu'an as his uncle, and Tian Sheng, Tian Fu's younger brother, was named Marquis of Zhou Yang.
Tian Fu had just gained power and was very humble to his retainers. He also introduced those who had not served as officials among his retainers and made them serve as officials, hoping to overwhelm the power of the generals and ministers in the court.
Most of the emperor's efforts to calm the political situation at that time were planned by Tian Fu's guests.
When the Prime Minister Wei Wan was dismissed due to illness, the Emperor discussed setting up the Prime Minister and the Taiwei.
He persuaded Tian Fu to borrow the opportunity and said: "Wei Qihou has been a noble man for a long time, and all the talents in the world have always been loyal to him. General, you have just become more prosperous and cannot be compared with Wei Qihou."
Even if the emperor intends to use the general as prime minister, the general must give up the position to Wei Qihou.
When Wei Qihou becomes prime minister, the general will definitely become a Taiwei.
The noble status of the Taiwei and the Prime Minister are the same. The general not only gets the Taiwei, but also has a good reputation of giving his position to the wise.
Tian Fu secretly revealed his thoughts to the Queen Mother and asked the Queen Mother to hint to the emperor. So Dou Ying was made prime minister and Tian Fu was made Taiwei.
I congratulated Dou Ying by taking advantage of his blessings, and advised him by the way: The nature of a prince is to like good and hate evil. Now good people praise the prince, so the prince can be the prime minister. But there are many evil people, and they will also slander the king.
If the ruler can be tolerant to both good and bad people, then the ruler's position is expected to last for a long time; otherwise, he will be slandered and leave his job immediately.
Dou Ying didn't listen to him.
Dou Ying and Tian Fu both liked Confucianism, so they elected Zhao Wan as the imperial censor and Wang Zang as the doctor.
Welcoming Lord Shen of Lu State to the capital and preparing to set up a Mingtang. Let the princes return to their respective fiefdoms, cancel the confinement, and uniform them according to ancient rituals to show peace.
He also reported all the descendants of the sinister clan and the clan, and all those with bad conduct would be removed from the genealogy.
At this time, the princes of the foreign relatives married many princesses and were unwilling to return to their fiefdoms. Therefore, the slanderous words of Dou Ying and others reached the ears of Queen Mother Dou every day.
The Queen Mother was interested in Huang Lao's scholarship, but Dou Ying, Tian Fu, Zhao Wan and others insisted on respecting Confucianism and belittling Taoism. Therefore, Queen Mother Dou became increasingly dissatisfied with Dou Ying and others.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, did not want the Queen Mother to continue to interfere in political affairs, so he asked the emperor not to make trouble against the Queen Mother in the future.
When Empress Dowager Dou found out, she was furious and said, "Are you trying to repeat Aragaki Ping's tricks?"
So Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were dismissed and expelled, and Dou Ying was removed from the post of prime minister and Tian Fu from the post of Taiwei. In addition, Bai Zhi Hou Xuchang was appointed as the prime minister, and Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai was appointed as the censor.
From then on, Dou Ying and Tian Fu only lived at home as Hou.
Although Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, did not hold an official position, he was still favored by the emperor because of his relationship with the Queen Mother. He discussed political affairs many times, and most of them were adopted and came into effect. Those officials and scholars who were in favor of others left Wei Qihou Dou Ying and joined Tian Fu.
As a result, Marquis Wu'an became more and more arrogant day by day.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. Prime Minister Xuchang and Yushi doctor Zhuang Qingzhai were removed from their official positions because they failed to organize the funeral.
The emperor then appointed Tian Fu as the prime minister and the chief minister Nong Han Anguo as the censor.
As a result, the scholars of the world, the officials of the prefectures, and the princes and kings became even more attached to Wu'an Marquis Tian Fu.
Tian Fu is ugly in appearance but considers himself to be very noble by nature.
He believed that the princes and kings at that time were all older, and the emperor had just ascended the throne and was very young. Tian Fu himself regarded the emperor's closest relative as the prime minister. If he did not thoroughly rectify the situation and use etiquette to restrain them, the people of the world would not obey.
At that time, the prime minister would often sit there for most of the day when he came in to perform business, and the emperor accepted all his suggestions.
Some of the people he recommended reached the position of two thousand stones, and their power almost exceeded that of the emperor.
The emperor then said: Have you used up all the people you want to appoint?
I also want to appoint a few people!
Once, he asked the emperor to allocate the official land of the examination room for him to expand his private residence. The emperor was furious and said to him: Why don't you take away my arsenal too?
summary:
Tian Fu, half-brother of Emperor Xiaojing and Queen Wang, rose in prominence after Emperor Wu's ascension, becoming Marquis of Wu'an. He initially humbled himself before Dou Ying but later gained power. Tian Fu recommended Dou Ying as prime minister while becoming Taiwei himself. Both favored Confucianism, promoting Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, and planned to establish a Mingtang. However, Queen Mother Dou, a Huang-Lao adherent, opposed them, leading to their dismissal. Tian Fu remained influential due to his ties to the Queen Mother, while Dou Ying's power waned. After Queen Mother Dou's death, Tian Fu became prime minister, growing arrogant. He built lavish residences, acquired fertile lands, and received countless treasures. Dou Ying, by contrast, became alienated and powerless, finding solace only in his friendship with Guan Fu. In summary, Dou Ying and Tian Fu rose through family ties, while Guan Fu gained fame through valor. Their conflicts, fueled by pride and arrogance, led to their downfalls. Han Anguo's wisdom and loyalty were overshadowed by fate, and Wang Hui's war advocacy ended in tragedy.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
是后乃退。
召客饮，坐其兄盖侯北乡，自坐东乡，以为汉相尊，不可以兄故私桡。
由此滋骄，治宅甲诸第，田园极膏腴，市买郡县器物相属于道。
前堂罗钟鼓，立曲旃；后房妇女以百数。
诸奏珍物狗马玩好，不可胜数。
而婴失窦太后，益疏不用，无势，诸公稍自引而怠骜，唯灌夫独否。
故婴墨墨不得意，而厚遇夫也。灌夫字仲孺，颍阴人也。
父张孟，尝为颍阴侯灌婴舍人，得幸，因进之，至二千石，故蒙灌氏姓为灌孟。
吴、楚反时，颍阴侯灌婴为将军，属太尉，请孟为校尉。
夫以千人与父俱。
孟年老，颍阴侯强请之，郁郁不得意，故战常陷坚，遂死吴军中。
汉法，父子俱，有死事，得与丧归，夫不肯随丧归。
奋曰： 愿取吴王若将军头以报父仇！
于是夫被甲持戟，募军中壮士所善愿从数十人。及出壁门，莫敢前。独两人及从奴十余骑驰入吴军，至戏下，所杀伤数十人。
不得前，复还走汉壁，亡其奴，独与一骑归。
夫身中大创十余，适有万金良药，故得无死。
创少瘳，又复请将军曰： 吾益知吴壁曲折，请复往。
将军壮而义之，恐亡夫，乃言太尉，太尉召固止之。
吴军破，夫以此名闻天下。
颍阴侯言夫，夫为郎中将。
translation: 
After this time, he restrained himself a little.
Once, he invited guests to a banquet and asked his elder brother Gaihou to sit facing north, but he sat facing east. He believed that the prime minister of the Han Dynasty was noble and he could not wrong himself in private just because he was his elder brother.
From then on, Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, became even more arrogant. The residences he built were extremely gorgeous and majestic, surpassing those of all nobles. His fields and manors are extremely fertile, and there is an endless stream of people he sends to counties to buy valuable artifacts on the road.
There are bells, drums and music in the front hall, and there are hundreds of women in the back room.
The treasures, dogs, horses, antiques and furnishings presented to him by the princes are countless.
Contrary to Tian Fu, Wei Qihou Dou Ying became even more alienated, not reused, and had no power since the death of Queen Mother Dou. All the guests gradually retreated and even treated Dou Ying with arrogance. Only Guan Fu still treated him the same way.
Dou Ying felt depressed every day, but he only had a particularly good relationship with Guan Fu. Guan Fu, courtesy name Zhongru, was born in Yingyin.
His father was Zhang Meng, who had once been the servant of Guan Ying, the Marquis of Yingyin. He was very favored, so he promoted him to an official of two thousand shi, so he took the surname of Guan and changed his name to Guan Meng.
When Wu and Chu were in power, Guan Ying, Marquis of Yingyin, was a general and was subordinate to Taiwei Zhou Yafu. He recommended Guan Meng to the Taiwei as a school lieutenant.
Guan Fu also brought a thousand people with him to be with his father.
At that time, Guan Meng was already very old, and the Taiwei did not want to use him. However, because Marquis Yingyin firmly recommended him, he agreed to let Guan Meng be the captain. Therefore, Guan Meng was depressed and frustrated. Whenever he fought, he often broke into the enemy's strong points, so he died in the Wu army.
According to the military law of the Han Dynasty at that time: if both father and son were in the army, and if someone died in the war, the surviving people could escort the remains back to their hometowns.
But Guanfu refused to do this. He said impassionedly: I am willing to behead the king of Wu or the general of Wu to avenge my father.
So Guan Fu put on his armor and held a halberd, and recruited dozens of strong men in the army who were friendly with him and willing to go with him. When they walked out of the gate of the military camp, no one dared to go forward. Only two people and more than ten slaves under Guan Fu's horse rushed into the Wu army and attacked until they were under the Wu army's general flag, killing and wounding dozens of people.
Because he could no longer attack, he rushed back to the Han army's camp. All the slaves he brought out died in the battle, and only he and a knight returned.
Guan Fu suffered more than a dozen serious injuries on his body. He happened to have precious medicine to heal the wounds, so he survived.
Guan Fu's wounds recovered slightly, and he asked the general again: "I now know more about the twists and turns of the Wu camp. Please allow me to go there again."
The general admired Guan Fu's courage and sympathized with his behavior. He was worried that Guan Fu's life would be in danger if he went again, so he reported it to the Taiwei, who then firmly stopped him and refused to let him go.
When the Wu army was defeated, Guan Fu became famous all over the world.
Marquis Yingyin reported Guan Fu's situation to the emperor, and the emperor appointed Guan Fu as lieutenant general.
summary:
Guan Fu, courtesy name Zhongru, was born in Yingyin. His father, Zhang Meng, served Guan Ying and took the surname Guan. During the Wu-Chu rebellion, Guan Fu fought fiercely to avenge his father, earning fame despite severe injuries. He later served as a general but lost his position due to legal troubles. Known for his uprightness and disdain for flattery, Guan Fu respected the poor and insulted the powerful. He associated with heroes and rogues, amassing wealth and a large following. His family's arrogance in Yingchuan led to a local song warning of their downfall. After losing power, Guan Fu bonded with Dou Ying, each seeking to bolster the other's status. Their friendship deepened, though Guan Fu's bluntness often caused conflict.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
已婴为寿，独故人避席，余半膝席。
夫行酒，至蚡，蚡膝席曰： 不能满觞。
夫怒，因嘻笑曰： 将军贵人也，毕之！
时蚡不肯。
行酒次至临汝侯灌贤，贤方与程不识耳语，又不避席。
夫无所发怒，乃骂贤曰： 平生毁程不识不直一钱，今日长者为寿，乃效女曹儿呫嗫耳语！
蚡谓夫曰： 程、李俱东西宫卫尉，今众辱程将军，仲孺独不为李将军地乎？
夫曰： 今曰斩头穴匈，何知程、李！
坐乃起更衣，稍稍去。
婴去，戏夫。
夫出，蚡遂怒曰： 此吾骄灌夫罪也。
乃令骑留夫，夫不得出。
藉福起为谢，案夫项令谢。
夫愈怒，不肯顺。
蚡乃戏骑缚夫置传舍，召长史曰： 今日召宗室，有诏。
劾灌夫骂坐不敬，系居室。
遂其前事，遣吏分曹逐捕诸灌氏支属，皆得弃市罪。
婴愧，为资使宾客请，莫能解。
蚡吏皆为耳目，诸灌氏皆仁匿，夫系，遂不得告言蚡阴事。
婴锐为救夫，婴夫人谏曰： 灌将军得罪丞相，与太后家迕，宁可救邪？
婴曰： 侯自我得之，自我捐之，无所恨。
且终不令灌仲孺独死，婴独生。
乃匿其家，窃出上书。
立召人，具告言灌夫醉饱事，不足诛。上然之，赐婴食，曰： 东朝廷辩之。
婴东朝，盛推夫善，言其醉饱得过，乃丞相以它事诬罪之。
蚡盛毁夫所为横恣，罪逆不道。
婴度无可奈何，因言蚡短。
translation: 
After a while, Wei Qihou Dou Ying stood up to propose a toast. Only those who had old acquaintances with him left their seats, and the other half of the people just sat there without even leaving the table.
Guan Fu got up and left his seat, and toasted to Tian Fu one after another. When he came to Tian Fu, Tian Fu still sat there and said, "I can't drink a full cup anymore."
Guan Fu was very angry and said with a smile: "You are a noble man, but you still have to drink a full cup!"
But Tian Fu refused to toast.
A toast came to Lin Ruhou Guan Xian. Guan Xian was talking quietly to Cheng Bushi without moving away from his seat.
Guan Fu was so angry that he had nowhere to vent his anger, so he scolded Guan Xian and said, "Normally, it is worthless to slander Cheng Bu Shi. Now that the elders are toasting you, you are just like a girl, biting your ears and talking to Cheng Bu Shi."
Tian Fu said to Guan Fu: Cheng and Li are both guards in the East and West Palaces. Now that you insult Cheng Bushi in public, won't you leave room for your beloved General Li?
Guan Fu said, "I don't care if you kill my head or pierce my chest today. What else do I care about Cheng and Li?"
Seeing that the situation was not good, the guests at the table got up and excused themselves to go to the toilet, and gradually dispersed.
Shi Ying also stood up and left, waving to Guan Fu to leave quickly.
When Guan Fu had just left, Tian Fu said angrily: "It's my fault, because I spoiled him so much that he became so presumptuous."
He ordered his knights to detain Guan Fu so that Guan Fu could not leave.
Taking advantage of the blessing, he quickly got up and apologized to the prime minister for Guan Fu. He pressed his hand on Guan Fu's neck and asked him to bow his head and apologize.
Guan Fu became even more angry and refused to apologize.
Tian Gou then ordered the knights to tie up Guan Fu and keep him in the transfer house. He also called for Chang Shi and said to him: "Today we invite guests from the royal family to a banquet here in accordance with the order of the Queen Mother Shao."
So Guan Fu was impeached, saying that he insulted the guests at the banquet, insulted Shao Ling, and committed the crime of disrespect. He was imprisoned in the living room.
At the same time, a thorough investigation was made of Guan Fu's various illegal activities in Yingchuan, and officers were dispatched to arrest relatives of each branch of the Guan family. They were all sentenced to death by beheading in public.
Dou Ying felt so ashamed that he paid and sent guests to plead with the prime minister, but in the end he could not get Guan Fu released.
Since Tian Fu's subordinates were all the prime minister's eyes and ears, the people in Guan's family who had slipped through the net were all running away and hiding, and Guan Fu himself was being detained, so he could not report all the bad things Tian Fu had done secretly.
Dou Ying desperately tried to rescue Guan Fu, but his wife persuaded him: General Guan offended the prime minister and went against the Queen Mother's family. Can he be saved?
Dou Ying said: I earned the Marquis by myself, and now I throw it away without any regrets.
Besides, I can't let Guan Zhongru die alone, while I, Dou Ying, live alone.
So he went out privately to write to the emperor without telling his family.
The emperor read the memorial of Wei Qihou Dou Ying and immediately summoned him into the palace. Dou Ying explained in detail the situation where Guan Fu made a mistake because he was drunk at the banquet, and believed that it was just a trivial matter of excessive drinking and not worthy of the death penalty. The emperor agreed with him, so he gave Dou Ying a meal together and said to him: "You can go to the Empress Dowager of the Eastern Dynasty to plead her case in court."
When Dou Ying arrived in the Eastern Dynasty, he praised Guan Fu's merits and said that he made a blunder while drunk, but the prime minister used other crimes to frame Guan Fu.
Tian Fu then tried his best to slander Guan Fu for what he had done, which was arrogant and indulgent, and committed the crime of treason.
Baoying had no other choice but to attack the prime minister's shortcomings.
summary:
Tian Fu once agreed to visit Dou Ying with Guan Fu but forgot, causing Guan Fu to confront him. At a banquet, Guan Fu insulted Tian Fu, leading to a rift. Tian Fu later demanded land from Dou Ying, who refused, deepening their enmity. In the fourth year of Yuanguang, Tian Fu reported Guan Fu's family's arrogance, and Guan Fu retaliated by exposing Tian Fu's misdeeds. At a wedding feast for Tian Fu, Guan Fu insulted guests, leading to his arrest. Tian Fu accused him of disrespect, and Dou Ying tried to save him, arguing his drunken mistake was minor. In court, Tian Fu slandered Guan Fu as treasonous. The emperor asked ministers to judge, but opinions were divided. Queen Mother Dou pressured the emperor, leading to Guan Fu's execution and Dou Ying's imprisonment. Dou Ying was later executed for allegedly forging an imperial edict. Tian Fu died soon after, haunted by ghosts of Dou Ying and Guan Fu. His son's title was later revoked.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
公孙诡、羊胜说王求为帝太子及益地事，恐汉大臣不听，乃阴使人刺汉用事谋臣。
及杀故吴相爰盎，景帝遂闻诡、胜等计划，乃遣使捕诡、胜，必得。
汉使十辈至梁，相以下举国大索，月余弗得。
安国闻诡、胜匿王所，乃入见王而泣曰： 主辱者臣死。
大王无良臣，故纷纷至此。
今胜、诡不得，请辞赐死。
王曰： 何至此？
安国泣数行下，曰： 大王自度于皇帝，孰与太上皇之与高帝及皇帝与临江王亲？
王曰： 弗如也。
安国曰： 夫太上皇、临江亲父子间，然高帝曰 提三尺取天下者朕也 ，故太上终不得制事，居于栎阳。
临江，適长太子，以一言过，废王临江；用宫垣事，卒自杀中尉府。
何者？
治天下终不用私乱公。
语曰： 虽有亲父，安知不为虎？
虽有亲兄，安知不为狼？
今大王列在诸侯，訹邪臣浮说，犯上禁，桡明法。
天子以太后故，不忍致法于大王。
太后日夜涕泣，幸大王自改，大王终不觉寤。
有如太后宫车即晏驾，大王尚谁攀乎？
语未卒，王泣数行而下，谢安国曰： 吾今出之。
即日诡、胜自杀。
汉使还报，梁事皆得释，安国力也。
景帝、太后益重安国。
孝王薨，共王即位，安国坐法失官，家居。
武帝即位，武安侯田蚡为太尉，亲贵用事。
安国以五百金遗蚡，蚡言安国太后，上素闻安国贤，即召以为北地都尉，迁为大司农。
translation: 
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng lobbied King Xiao and asked him to request to be the heir to the throne and increase the fiefdom. They were afraid that the ministers of the Han court would not agree, so they secretly sent people to assassinate the powerful advisers of Moting.
When Yuan An, the former Prime Minister of Wu, was killed, Emperor Jing heard about the plans of Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others, so he sent people to capture Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
The Han Dynasty sent many envoys to Liang one after another, and a nationwide search was carried out from the Prime Minister of Liang on down. After more than a month, no one was caught.
The internal history of Han Anguo heard that Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others were hiding in Xiaowang's palace, so he went to the palace to see the king and cried and said: If the monarch is humiliated, the ministers should die.
The king has no good ministers, so things have become such a mess.
Now that I can't catch Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng, please let me say goodbye to you and grant my death.
King Liang said: "Why are you doing this?"
Han Anguo burst into tears for several lines and said: The king himself is thinking about the relationship between you and the emperor. Compared with the Supreme Emperor and Emperor Gao, or the emperor and King Linjiang, who is closer?
King Xiao said: Not as good as them.
An Guo said: The Supreme Emperor, Prince Linjiang, Emperor Gao and the Emperor all have a father-son relationship, but Emperor Gao said that I am the one who conquers the world with a three-foot sword, so the Supreme Emperor has never had the right to interfere in political affairs and only lives in Liangyang Palace.
King Linjiang was the eldest prince, but because his mother made a mistake, he was deprived of the title of King Linjiang; and because of the palace wall incident, he finally committed suicide in the Lieutenant's Mansion.
Why is this happening?
Because in governing the world, one cannot harm the public for private reasons.
As the saying goes: Although I have a biological father, how do I know that he is not a tiger?
Although he has a biological brother, how do you know that he will not turn into a wolf?
Now the king is a prince, but he listened to the false words of an evil official, violated the monarch's prohibition, and distorted the strict law.
Because of the Queen Mother, the Emperor cannot bear to use laws against you.
The Queen Mother cried at night, hoping that the king would realize and change his ways, but the king still could not wake up.
If the Queen Mother dies, who else can you cling to, Your Majesty?
Before he finished speaking, King Xiao burst into tears and blamed himself to Han Anguo: "I will hand over Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng immediately."
On that day, Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng committed suicide.
The Han envoys returned to answer their orders, and Liang's troubles were completely resolved. This was all due to An Guo's contribution.
So Emperor Jing and Empress Dowager Dou valued Han Anguo even more.
After the death of King Xiao, King Gong came to the throne. Han Anguo lost his official position because of breaking the law and lived at home.
After Liu Che, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, ascended the throne, Tian Fu, Marquis of Wu'an, became the Taiwei, favored and trusted and held great power.
Han Anguo gave five hundred gold to Tian Fu. Tian Fu mentioned Han Anguo to the Queen Mother. The emperor often heard about Anguo's talents, so he called him the captain of the North, and later he was promoted to Da Si Nong.
summary:
Han Anguo, courtesy name Changru, was born in Cheng'an County, Liang State. He studied Han Feizi and served King Xiao of Liang during the Wu-Chu rebellion, helping repel the Wu army. After the rebellion, his reputation grew. When Emperor Jing was displeased with King Liang's extravagance, Han Anguo defended him to the eldest princess, easing tensions. He later became internal history of Liang, resolving conflicts by persuading King Xiao to surrender conspirators. After King Xiao's death, Han Anguo lost his position but regained favor under Emperor Wu through Tian Fu's patronage. He became a censor and advocated peace with the Xiongnu, opposing Wang Hui's war plans. Despite initial success, the Mayi ambush failed, and Wang Hui committed suicide. Han Anguo later served as a general but was demoted due to military setbacks. He died of illness, frustrated and unhappy. His colleague Husui, a virtuous official, also died before becoming prime minister.

