Chunk 0: 
original: 
杨终字子山，蜀郡成都人也。
年十三，为郡小吏，太守奇其才，遣诣京师受业，习《春秋》，显宗时，征诣兰台，拜校书郎。
建初元年，大旱谷贵，终以为广陵、楚、淮阳、济南之狱，徙者万数，又远屯绝域，吏民怨旷，乃上疏曰：臣闻 善善及子孙，恶恶止其身 ，百王常典，不易之道也。
秦政酷烈，违忤天心，一人有罪，延及三族。
高祖平乱，约法三章。
太宗至仁，除去收孥。
万姓廓然，蒙被更生，泽及昆虫，功垂万世。
陛下圣明，德被四表。
今以比年久旱，灾疫未息，躬自菲薄，广访失得，三代之隆，无以加焉。
臣窃桉《春秋》水旱之变，皆应暴急，惠不下流。
自永平以来，仍连大狱，有司穷考，转相牵引，掠考冤滥，家属徒边。
加以北征匈奴，西开三十六国，频年服役，转输烦费。
又远屯伊吾，楼兰、车师、戊己，民怀土思，怨结边域。
传曰： 安土重居，谓之众庶。
昔殷民近迁洛邑，且犹怨望，何况去中土之肥饶，寄不毛之荒极乎？
且南方暑湿，障毒互生。
愁困之民，足以感动天地，移变阴阳矣。
陛下留念省察，以济元元。
书奏，肃宗下其章。
司空第五伦亦同终议。
太尉牟融、司徒鲍昱、校书郎班固等难伦，以施行既久，孝子无改父之道，先帝所建，不宜回异。
终复上书曰： 秦筑长城，功役繁兴，胡亥不革，卒亡四海。
故孝元弃珠崖之郡，光武绝西域之国，不以介鳞易我衣裳。
鲁文公毁泉台，《春秋》讥之曰 先祖为之而己毁之，不如勿居而己 ，以其无妨害于民也。
translation: 
◆Yang Zhongchuan, named Zishan, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
When he was thirteen years old, he was a county official. The prefect thought his talent was very strange and sent him to the capital to study "Spring and Autumn". During the reign of Emperor Xianzong, he was called to Lantai and worshiped as the school's secretary.
In the first year of Jianchu, there was a severe drought and the price of grain was high. Yang Zhong thought that tens of thousands of people were imprisoned in Guangling, Chu, Huaiyang, Jinan and other places, and they were stationed in remote areas. There were many complaints from the officials and the people, so he went to Shudao: I heard that "good deeds are passed on to descendants, and evil deeds stop themselves." A hundred kings have always followed the rules, and this is an unchanging truth.
The politics of the Qin Dynasty were cruel and severe, and it went against the will of God. One person was guilty, and three tribes were implicated.
Emperor Gaozu pacified the troubled times and made three chapters.
Taizong was extremely merciful and removed the law of accepting children.
Wan people with the surname Kuoran will receive the blessing of rebirth, their blessings will reach the level of insects, and their achievements will last forever.
Your Majesty is wise and holy, and his virtue is reflected in his words.
Nowadays, there have been years of drought, continuous epidemics, low self-esteem, and extensive visits to gain and lose. Even the prosperity of three generations is nothing more than this and cannot be increased any more.
If I privately check the records of floods and droughts in the Spring and Autumn Annals, I should respond with urgency and not be obscene in my kindness.
Since the Yongping period, there are still large prisons, with officials chasing each other, pulling each other, plundering and interrogating prisoners, unjustly killing innocent people, and sending their families to the army.
In addition, the north conquered the Huns and the west opened up thirty-six countries. They served for many years and the transportation was very expensive.
They also settled in Yiwu, Loulan, Cheshi and Wuji far away. The people missed their hometown and resented the border areas.
"Biography" says: Antu returned to his home, and he was called the common people.
In the past, the people of the Yin Dynasty complained when they moved to Luoyi, let alone leaving the fertile land of the Central Plains and going to the barren wasteland.
Moreover, the hot and humid weather in the south creates mutual hazards and poisons.
The miserable people are enough to move heaven and earth and change yin and yang.
Your Majesty, please pay attention and save the people.
In the memorial, Suzong handed the memorial to his ministers for discussion.
Sikong Wulun also agreed with Yang Zhong's opinion.
Taiwei Mou Rong, Situ Bao Yu, school secretary Lang Ban Gu and others argued with the Fifth Lun, arguing that the immigration law had been in effect for a long time, and filial sons did not have the right to change their father's ways. The system established by the late emperor should not be changed.
Yang Zhong wrote again: In the Qin Dynasty, the Great Wall was built and military service flourished, but Hu Hai did not think about reforms and finally lost the world.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaoyuan gave up the county of Zhuya, and Emperor Guangwu cut off the kingdoms of the Western Regions in order not to exchange China with foreign barbarians.
When Duke Wen of Lu destroyed the spring platform, the Spring and Autumn Annals sneered: "Our ancestors destroyed it for the sake of it. It is better not to live there, because it will not harm the people."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
襄公作三军。昭公舍之，君子大其复古，以为不舍则有害于民也。
今伊吾之役，楼兰之屯，久而未还，非天意也。
帝从之，听还徙者，悉罢边屯。
终又言： 宣帝博征群儒，论定《五经》于石渠阁。
方今天下少事，学者得成其业，而章句之徒，破坏大体。
宜如石渠故事，永为后世则。
于是诏诸儒于白虎观论考同异焉。
会终坐事系狱，博士赵博、校书郎班固、贾逵等，以终深晓《春秋》，学多异闻，表请之，终又上书自讼，即日贳出，乃得与于白虎观焉。
后受诏删《太史公书》为十余万言。
时，太后兄卫尉马廖，谨笃自守，不训诸子。
终与廖交善，以书戒之曰：终闻尧、舜之民，可比屋而封；桀、纣之民，可比屋而诛，何者？
尧、舜为之堤防，桀、纣示之骄奢故也。
《诗》曰： 皎皎练丝，在所染之。
上智下愚，谓之不移；中庸之流，要在教化。
《春秋》杀太子母弟，直称君甚恶之者，坐失教也。
《礼》制，人君之子年八岁，为置少搏，教之书计，以开其明；十五置太傅，教之经典，以道其志。
汉兴，诸侯王不力教诲，多触禁忌，故有亡国之祸，而乏嘉善之称。
今君位地尊重，海内所望，岂可不临深履薄，以为至戒！
黄门郎年幼，血气方盛，既无长君退让之风，而要结轻狡无行之客，纵而莫诲，视成任性，鉴念前往，可为寒心。
君侯诚宜以临深履薄为戒。
廖不纳。
子豫后坐县书诽谤，廖以就国。
终兄凤为郡吏，太守廉范为州所考，遣凤侯终，终为范游说，坐徙北地。
帝东巡狩，凤皇黄龙并集，终赞颂嘉瑞，上述祖宗鸿业，凡十五章，奏上，诏贳还故郡。
著《春秋外传》十二篇，改定章句十五万言。
永元十二年，征拜郎中，以病卒。
translation: 
Duke Xiang organized the three armies, but Duke Zhao abandoned the central army. The gentleman thought it was a retrogression, and thought that not abandoning it would be harmful to the people.
It is not God's will that the battle of Yiwu and the village of Loulan should not be returned for a long time.
The emperor obeyed, returned those exiles, and stopped all border settlements.
Yang Zhong also said: Emperor Xuan recruited scholars from the county extensively and concluded that the Five Classics should be in Shiqu Pavilion.
At present, the world is peaceful and peaceful, and scholars can complete their work, while followers of chapters and sentences destroy the general body.
We should follow the old example of Shiqu and it will always be the rule for future generations.
So he ordered all the Confucian scholars to examine the similarities and differences in Baihu Temple.
It happened that Yang Zhong was imprisoned because of his affairs. Dr. Zhao Bo, school secretary Lang Ban Gu, Jia Kui, etc. thought that Yang Zhong had done a lot of research on "Spring and Autumn" and had unique academic insights. They made a request. Yang Zhong also wrote a letter to confess himself and was pardoned on the same day, so he was able to participate in the White Tiger Temple.
Later, he was ordered to delete "Tai Shi Gong Shu" to more than 100,000 words.
At that time, the Empress Dowager's brother, Weiwei Ma Liao, was cautious, honest and self-defeating, and did not discipline others.
Yang Zhong had a good friendship with Liao, and he wrote to Liao to advise him: I heard that the people of Yao and Shun could compare houses and receive gifts; the people of Jie and Zhou could compare houses and get executions.
Why? Yao and Shun were wary of it, and Jie and Zhou showed it because of their arrogance and extravagance.
"The Book of Songs" says: The bright silk is dyed when it is made.
The superior wisdom and the inferior foolishness cannot be changed, and the laxity of the mean must be transformed through teaching.
"Spring and Autumn Annals" records that the Marquis of Jin killed Prince Shen Sheng and called him the Marquis of Jin, expressing his disgust because he was a loser.
"Book of Rites" stipulates that when the son of a ruler is eight years old, he should be appointed a young tutor to teach him writing and calculation to develop his wisdom; when he is fifteen years old, he should be appointed a tutor to teach him classics to guide his determination.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, the princes and kings were not committed to teaching and violated many taboos, so they were in danger of ruining the country and lacked the title of Jiashan.
Now that you are in a distinguished position, you have high hopes in the country. Couldn't we be on guard as if we were facing an abyss, walking on thin ice?
Huang Menlang is young and full of blood. He does not have the grace to give in like the elder. Instead, he wants to make friends with guests who are cunning and incompetent. He is indulgent and does not teach, which is regarded as willful. It is chilling to learn from the lessons of the past.
Kings and princes should take it as a warning to walk on thin ice in the face of an abyss.
Maliao did not accept it.
His son Ma Yu later committed a crime of defamation by hanging a letter, and Ma Liao returned to his fiefdom.
Yang Zhong's brother Yang Feng was a county official. Lian Fan, the prefect, was examined by the state and sent Yang Feng to accompany Yang Zhong. Yang Zhong lobbied for Lian Fan and was exiled to the north.
The emperor went on a tour to the east, and the phoenix and yellow dragon gathered together. Yang Zhong praised Jiarui for his good fortune and the great deeds of his ancestors mentioned above. There are fifteen chapters in total, and he is memorialized and ordered to return to his hometown without guilt.
He wrote twelve chapters of "Spring and Autumn Annals", with 150,000 words of revised chapters and sentences.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan's reign, the doctor who was summoned to worship him died of illness.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
李法字伯度，汉中南郑人也。
博通群书，性刚而有节。
和帝永元九年，应贤艮方正对策。除博士，迁侍中、光禄大夫。
岁余，上疏以为朝政苛碎，违永平、建初故事；宦官权重，椒房宠盛，又讥史官记事不实，后世有识，寻功计德，必不明信。
坐失旨，下有司，免为庶人，还乡里，杜门自守。
故人儒生时有侯之者，言谈之次，问其不合上意之由，法未尝应对。
友人固问之，法曰： 鄙夫可与事君乎哉？
敬患失之，无所不至。
孟子有言： 夫仁者如射，正己而后发。
发而不中，不怨胜己者，反诸身而已矣。
在家八年，征拜议郎、谏议大夫，正言极辞，无改于旧。
出为汝南太守，政有声迹。
后归乡里，卒于家。
翟酺字子超，广汉雒人也。
四世传《诗》。
酺好《老子》，尤善图纬、天文、历算。
以报舅仇，当徙日南，亡于长安，为卜相工，后牧羊凉州。
遇赦还。
仕郡，征拜议郎，迁侍中。
时，尚书有缺，诏将大夫六百石以上试对政事、天文、道术，以高第者补之。
自恃能高，而忌故太史令孙懿，恐其先用，乃往侯懿。
既坐，言无所及，唯涕泣流连。
懿怪而问之，酺曰： 图书有汉贼孙登，将以才智为中官所害。观君表相，似当应之。
酺受恩接，凄怆君之祸耳！
懿忧惧，移病不试。
由是酺对第一，拜尚书。
时，安帝始亲政事，追感祖母宋贵人，悉封其家。
又元舅耿宝及皇后兄弟阎显等并用威权。酺上疏谏曰：臣闻微子佯狂而去殷，叔孙通背秦而归汉，彼非自疏其君，时不可也。
translation: 
◆Li Fazhuan, whose courtesy name is Bodu, was born in Nanzheng, Hanzhong.
He is well-versed in books and has an upright and disciplined personality.
In the ninth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, in response to the virtuous and correct strategy, he was awarded a doctor's degree and promoted to the rank of Shizhong and Guanglu doctor.
For more than a year, Shangshu believed that the government was harsh and violated the old rules of Yongping and Jianchu years; the eunuchs were too powerful and the concubines were favored too much;
Because he committed the crime of violating the decree, he was handed over to the judicial office, removed from office and became a commoner. Return to your hometown and close the door to yourself.
My old friend, the Confucian scholar, would greet me from time to time. While talking, I would ask him why he didn't agree with me, but Fa never answered.
The friend asked him firmly, and Fa replied: Can a despicable person serve the king with him?
If you are worried about making a mistake, you will be tempted to engage in sycophantic behavior.
Mencius once said: A benevolent person is like an archer. He must stand upright and then shoot the arrow.
If you miss the target, don't blame those who are better than you, just blame yourself.
After staying at home for eight years, he was worshiped as Yilang and admonished the officials. He spoke the right words and did not change his old habits.
Later he went out to be the governor of Runan and became very famous in politics.
Later he returned to his hometown and died at home.
◆Zhai Youfu's biography, Zhai Youfu's courtesy name is Zichao, and he was born in Luo, Guanghan.
The Book of Songs was passed down by the fourth generation.
Zhai Youfu is good at "Laozi" and is especially good at charting, astronomy and calendar calculation.
In order to avenge his uncle, he served as a soldier in Rinan, fled to Chang'an, worked as a fortune teller, and later shepherded sheep in Liangzhou.
Returned after being pardoned.
When he became an official in the county, he was summoned to be Yilang and moved to the position of Shizhong.
At that time, there was a vacancy in the official books, and the officials were ordered to test political affairs, astronomy, Taoism and other subjects with more than 600 shi, and those with higher rankings would fill the vacancies.
Zhai Youfu relied on his high ability, but he was afraid that Sun Yi, the former Taishi Ling, would be used first, so he went to greet Sun Yi.
Already sitting down, the conversation did not come to the main topic, only crying.
Sun Yi felt strange and asked him, and Zhai Youfu said: "There is a Han thief Sun Deng in the book. He will be killed by a middle official because of his intelligence. Judging from your appearance, it seems that you should be worthy of it."
I have been favored, but I am worried about your misfortune!
Sun Yi was very scared, so he claimed to be ill and refused to take the exam.
So Zhai Youfu became the first minister and became the minister.
At this time, Emperor An just came to the political affairs in person, and in memory of his grandmother Song Guiren, he granted all his family titles.
In addition, his uncle Geng Bao and the queen's brother Yan Xian all used their authority. Zhai Youfu went to the court and remonstrated: "I heard that Weizi pretended to be crazy and left the Yin and Shang Dynasties, and Shusun Tong abandoned the Qin Dynasty and returned to the Han Dynasty. They are not alienating themselves from the monarch, and the situation is unstoppable."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣何殊绝之恩，蒙值不讳之政，岂敢雷同受宠，而以戴天履地。
伏惟陛下应天履祚，历值中兴，当建太平之功，而未闻致化之道。
盖远者难明，请以近事征之。
昔窦、邓之宠，倾动四方，兼官重绂，盈金积货，至使议弄神器，改更社稷。
岂不以势尊威广，以致斯患乎？
及其破坏，头颡堕地，愿为孤豚，岂可得哉！
未致贵无渐失必暴，受爵非道殃必疾。
今外戚宠幸，功均造化，汉元以来，未有等比。
陛下诚仁恩周洽，以亲九族。
然禄去公室，政移私门，覆车重寻，宁无摧折。
而朝臣在位，莫肯正议，翕翕訾訾，更相佐附。
臣恐威权外假，归之良难，虎翼一奋，卒不可制。
故孔子曰： 吐珠于泽，谁能不含 ；老子称 国之利器，不可以示人 。
此最安危之极戒，社稷之深计也。夫俭德之恭，政存约节。
故文帝爱百金于露台，饰帷帐于皁囊。
或有讥其俭者，上曰： 朕为天下守财耳，岂得妄用之哉！
至仓谷腐而不可食，钱贯朽而不可校。
今自初政已来，日月未久，费用赏赐已不可算。
敛天下之财，积无功之家，帑藏单尽，民物凋伤，卒有不虞，复当重赋百姓，怨叛既生，危乱可待也。昔成王之政，周公在前，邵公在后，毕公在左，史佚在右，四子挟而维之。
目见正容，耳闻正言，一日即位，天下旷然，言其法度素定也。
今陛下有成王之尊而无数子之佐，虽欲崇雍熙，致太平，其可得乎？自去年已来，灾谴频数，地坼天崩，高岸为谷。
修身恐惧，则转祸为福；轻慢天戒，则其害弥深。
愿陛下亲自劳恤，研精致思，勉求忠贞之臣，诛远佞谄之党，损玉堂之盛，尊天爵之重，割情欲之欢，罢宴私之好。
帝王图籍，陈列左右，心存亡国所以失之，鉴观兴王所以得之，庶灾害可息，丰年可招矣。
书奏不省，而外戚宠臣咸畏恶之。
translation: 
I have been blessed with special grace, and I have been honored by my government. How can I dare to be favored by the emperor and live in the land of the emperor?
I thought that Your Majesty ascended the throne in response to destiny, encountered the opportunity of ZTE, and established peace, but I didn't hear that there was a way to achieve peace.
It may be difficult to understand because it is far away. Please use recent events to prove it.
In the past, the favors of the Dou family and the Deng family moved the world, and they served as officials and officials, accumulated money and goods, and even envoys negotiated for the throne and changed the country.
Isn't it because of his great power and authority that he has suffered such a serious disaster?
When they fail, their heads fall to the ground, and they want to be sacrificed, how can they be obtained?
If you do not gain a noble title gradually, you will inevitably suffer a violent loss; if you do not follow the right path when receiving a noble title, the disaster will come quickly.
Today, I am favored by my relatives, and all my merits are attributed to good fortune. Since the Han and Yuan Dynasties, there has been no comparison.
Your Majesty is indeed benevolent and considerate, and is friendly to the nine tribes.
However, if the salary is transferred to the public office, the government is transferred to the private door, and the overturning commandment is repeated, won't it be destroyed?
As for the courtiers in office, no one dared to discuss it seriously, but they only obeyed and supported each other.
I am afraid that if you give your authority to your relatives, it will be difficult to take it back. Once the tiger takes off, it cannot be stopped.
That’s why Confucius said: Who can keep it from spitting pearls into the lake? Lao Tzu said: The sharp weapons of a country should not be shown to others.
This is the most dangerous warning and is the long-term plan for the country. Frugality is the virtue of courtesy, and frugality in government must be frugal.
Therefore, Emperor Wen wanted to build a terrace, worth a hundred gold, and decorate it with curtains and tents.
Some people ridiculed him for being frugal. The emperor said: I am protecting the world's wealth, how can I use it randomly?
The grain in the warehouse is rotten and cannot be eaten, and the strings of money are rotten and cannot be counted.
Since the beginning of the administration, the time has not been long, and the expenses and rewards have become incalculable.
Collecting the wealth of the world and accumulating a house of ineffectiveness will cause the national treasury to be empty and the people's property to wither. If there is an unforeseen disaster coming, the people should also be given heavy gifts. Resentment and rebellion will arise, and danger and chaos are just around the corner. In the past, during the reign of King Cheng, Duke Zhou was in front, Duke Shao was behind, Duke Bi was on the left, and Shi Yi was on the right. Four people held him in check.
What the eyes see is the correct appearance, and the ears hear the correct words. As soon as he ascends the throne, the world will be at ease, saying that his laws have been established long ago.
Now that Your Majesty has the dignity of becoming a king but does not have a few wise men to assist him, even if he wants to achieve peace and enjoy the blessings of peace, is it possible to achieve it? Since last year, disasters have occurred continuously, with the earth and sky collapsing and high banks turning into low valleys.
If the person in the upper position can cultivate fear, then he can turn disaster into blessing; if he despises the precepts of heaven, then the harm will be great.
May Your Majesty personally express your sympathy and sympathy, study your thoughts carefully, seek loyal ministers with all your strength, punish those who are distant and flattering, harm the prosperity of the Yutang, respect benevolence, justice, etiquette, wisdom, trust and other heavenly nobles, cut off the pleasures of lust, and stop feasting for private pleasures.
Imperial pictures and books are displayed on the left and right, thinking about the reasons for the destruction of the country and the reasons for the prosperity of the king to conquer the world. The common disasters can be stopped and the good harvest can come.
When the book was submitted, it was not inspected by the emperor, and his relatives and favored ministers all feared and loathed him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
延光三年，出为酒泉太守。
叛羌千余骑徙敦煌来抄郡界，酺赴击，斩首九百级，羌众几尽，威名大震。
迁京兆尹。
顺帝即位，拜光禄大夫，迁将作大匠。
损省经用，岁息四五千万。
屡因灾异，多所匡正。
由是权贵共诬酺及尚书令高堂芝等交通属托，坐减死归家。
复被章云酺前与河南张楷等谋反，逮诣廷尉。
及杜真等上书讼之，事得明释。
卒于家。
著《援神》、《钩命解诂》十二篇。
初，酺之为大匠，上言： 孝文皇帝始置一经博士，武帝大合天下之书，而孝宣论《六经》于石渠，学者滋盛，弟子万数。
光武初兴，愍其荒废，起太学博士舍、内外讲堂，诸生横巷，为海内所集。
明帝时辟雍始成，欲毁太学，太尉赵憙以为太学、辟雍皆宜兼存，故并传至今。
而顷者颓废，至为园采刍牧之处。
宜更修缮，诱进后学。
帝从之。
酺免后，遂起太学。更开拓房室，学者为酺立碑铭于学云。
应奉字世叔，汝南南顿人也。
曾祖父顺，字华仲，和帝时为河南尹、将作大匠，公廉约己，明达政事。
生十子，皆有才学。
中子叠，江夏太守，叠生郴，武陵太守。
郴生奉。
奉少聪明，自为童兒及长，凡所经履，莫不暗记。
读书五行并下。
为郡决曹史，行部四十二县，录囚徒数百千人。
及还，太守备问之，奉口说罪系姓名，坐状轻重，无所遣脱，时人奇之。
著《汉书后序》，多所述载。
大将军梁冀举茂才。
先是，武陵蛮詹山等四千余人反叛，执县令，屯结连年。诏下公卿议，四府举奉才堪将帅。
永兴元元，拜武陵太守。
到官慰纳，山等皆悉降散。
于是兴学校，举仄陋，政称变俗。
坐公事免。
translation: 
In the third year of Yanguang's reign, Zhai Youfu became the prefect of Jiuquan.
The rebellious Qiang people sent out more than a thousand cavalry from Dunhuang to attack the border of the county. Zhai Youfu went to meet them and beheaded 900 people. The Qiang people were almost killed, and their reputation was greatly shocked.
Promoted to Jing Zhaoyin.
When Emperor Shun ascended the throne, he was worshiped as Guanglu doctor and moved to the general as a great craftsman.
Zhai Youfu lost the province's regular expenses and earned interest of 40 to 50 million per year.
There have been many disasters and many corrections have been made.
From then on, the powerful officials falsely accused Youfu and the minister, Gao Tangzhi and others, who were entrusted with transportation. They committed a crime and returned home with a reduced death penalty.
It was also reported in the memorial that Youfu had conspired against Zhang Kai and others in Henan and was arrested and taken to Tingwei.
It was not until Du Zhen and others wrote a letter stating the whole story that the case was clearly explained.
Died at home.
Zhai Youfu wrote twelve chapters in "Yuan Shen" and "Gou Ming Jie Xie".
At the beginning, Zhai Youfu was a master craftsman and wrote a letter saying: Emperor Xiaowen first established a doctor of classics, Emperor Wu unified the world's books, and Emperor Xiaoxuan discussed the "Six Classics" in Shiqu, with many scholars and tens of thousands of disciples.
When Guangwu first came into being, he was worried about its desolation. He built the Taixue doctor's residence, internal and external lecture halls, and alleys and lanes, which were gathered all over the sea.
When the university was first built during the Ming Dynasty, he wanted to destroy Taixue. Taiwei Zhao Xi believed that Taixue and Piyong should be preserved, so they were passed down to this day.
Nowadays, it has been abandoned and has even become a place for gardeners to collect grass and grazing grass.
It should be repaired and renovated to encourage future students to learn.
The emperor obeyed.
After Zhai Youfu was dismissed from his post, he founded the Imperial Academy and opened up a new room. Scholars set up an inscription on Zhai Youfu's behalf in the academy.
◆Yingfeng Chuan should be named Shishu, a native of Nandun, Runan.
Great-grandfather Ying Shun, named Hua Zhong, was a Yin of Henan Province and a great craftsman during the reign of Emperor He. He was fair and honest, restrained himself, and understood political affairs.
He gave birth to ten sons, all of whom were talented and learned.
Zhongzi Qingdie was the governor of Jiangxia. Diesheng Chen was the prefect of Wuling.
Chen Shengfeng.
Ying Feng was very smart when he was young. From childhood to old age, he secretly remembered everything he passed.
Reading can bring the five elements together.
As the governor of the county, he visited forty-two counties and recorded hundreds of thousands of prisoners.
When he came back, the prefect asked all the questions and told him the name of the prisoner and the severity of the crime without omitting anything. People at that time were surprised.
He wrote the "Preface to the Book of Han", which contains many records.
General Liang Ji promoted him to Maocai.
First, Wuling Man Zhanshan and more than 4,000 people rebelled, captured the county magistrate, and camped for several years. The imperial court issued an order to discuss with the ministers, and the four government officials recommended him, believing that he had the talent of a general.
In the first year of Yongxing, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuling.
After arriving at the government office, he offered condolences and received them. Zhan Shan and others all surrendered and scattered.
So schools were set up, the mediocre talents were promoted, and the political reputation was changed to a secular one.
Removal from office for official crimes.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
延熹中，武陵蛮复寇乱荆州，车骑将军冯绲以奉有威恩，为蛮夷所服，上请与俱征。
拜从事中郎。
奉勤设方略，贼破军罢，绲推功于奉，荐为司隶校尉。
纠举奸违，不避豪威，以严厉为名。
及邓皇后败，而田贵人见幸，桓帝有建立之议。
奉以田氏微贱，不宜超登后位，上书谏曰： 臣闻周纳狄女，襄王出居于郑；汉立飞燕，成帝胤嗣泯绝。
母后之重，兴废所因。
宜思《关雎》之所求，远五禁之所忌。
帝纳其言，竟立窦皇后。
及党事起，奉乃慨然以疾自退。
追愍屈原，因以自伤，著《感骚》三十篇，数万言。
诸公多荐举，会病卒。
子劭。
劭字仲远。
少笃学，博览多闻。
灵帝时举孝廉，辟车骑将军何苗掾。
中平二年，汉阳贼边章、韩遂与羌胡为寇，东侵三辅，时遣车骑将军后甫嵩西讨之。
嵩请发乌桓三千人。
北军中侯邹靖上言： 乌桓众弱，宜开募鲜卑。
事下四府，大将军掾韩卓议，以为： 乌桓兵寡，而与鲜卑世为仇敌，若乌桓被发，则鲜卑必袭其家。
乌桓闻之，当复弃军还救。
非唯无益于实，乃更沮三军之情。
邹靖居近边塞，究其态诈。
若令靖募鲜卑轻骑五千，必有破敌之效。
邵驳之曰：鲜卑隔在漠北，犬羊为群，无君长之帅，庐落之居，而天性贪暴，不拘信义，故数犯障塞，且无宁岁。
唯至互市，乃来靡服。
苟欲中国珍货，非为畏威怀德。
计获事足，旋踵为害。
是以朝家外而不内，盖为此也。
往者匈奴反叛，度辽将军马续、乌桓校尉王元发鲜卑五千余骑，又武威太守赵冲亦率鲜卑征讨叛羌。
斩获丑虏，既不足言，而鲜卑越溢，多为不法。
translation: 
During the Yanxi period, the Wuling barbarians invaded Jingzhou again. The chariot and cavalry general Feng Cui believed that Feng You should have prestige and was convinced by the barbarians. He wrote a letter requesting to join him in the expedition.
Become a Zhonglang.
Should Fengqin set up strategies, and after the thieves defeated the army, Feng Kui commended Feng for his merits and recommended him as Sili Xiaowei.
He reports bad people, does not avoid relatives, and is famous for his severity.
Later, Empress Deng failed, but Tian Guiren was favored, and Emperor Huan wanted to make her his queen.
Ying Feng believed that the Tian family was of humble origin and should not rise to the throne, so he wrote a letter to advise: I heard that the Zhou Dynasty accepted Di Nu, and King Xiang came to live in Zheng; the Han Dynasty established Zhao Feiyan, and the descendants were exterminated after becoming emperor.
The importance of the mother is the reason for the rise and fall of the country.
You should think about what "Guan Sui" asks for, and what the king prohibits.
The emperor adopted his opinion and appointed Queen Dou.
When the later party affairs broke out, Ying Feng resigned from his post because of illness.
In order to commemorate Qu Yuan, he wrote thirty chapters of "Gan Sao" with tens of thousands of words.
Many officials recommended him, but he died of illness.
The son Ying Shao.
◆Ying Shao Chuan, Ying Shao's courtesy name is Zhongyuan.
When he was young, he was studious and well-read.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, he was promoted to Xiaolian and appointed as a messenger to the chariot and cavalry general He Miao.
In the second year of Zhongping, the Hanyang thieves Bian Zhang and Han Sui, together with the Qiang and Hu, became border bandits and invaded Sanfu from the east. At that time, the imperial court sent Chariot and Cavalry General Huangfu Song to the west to attack them.
Song requested that three thousand Wuhuan people be mobilized to fight together.
Zou Jing, the Zhonghou of the Northern Army, wrote: Wuhuan's troops are weak, so we should recruit Xianbei people to help in the battle.
After returning home to discuss the matter, General Han Zhuo suggested: Wuhuan has few soldiers and has been an enemy of Xianbei for generations. If Wuhuan is transferred, Xianbei will definitely attack his home.
After Wuhuan heard about it, he would definitely abandon his army and go back to rescue.
Not only is it unhelpful to the actual situation, but it also depresses the mood of the three armed forces.
Zou Jing lives near the border and knows their deceit.
If Zou Jing were to recruit five thousand Xianbei soldiers, he would be able to defeat the enemy.
Ying Shao retorted: "Xianbei was isolated in Mobei, living with dogs and sheep. He had no ruler to command him, and he did not live in a hut. He was greedy, cruel and unfaithful by nature, so he invaded the frontiers several times and had no peaceful years."
Only when there is a mutual market, can you take advantage of it.
They only want China's treasures and goods, not because they fear power and moral integrity.
The plan is successful, and then comes the harm.
Therefore, the Xia within the country and the barbarians outside are for this reason.
In the past, the Xiongnu rebelled. General Ma Xu and Wuhuan captain Wang Yuan mobilized more than 5,000 Xianbei cavalry, and Wuwei prefect Zhao Chong also led Xianbei to conquer the rebellious Qiang.
Capturing the leader of the Hu people is not enough, but Xianbei is more and more involved in illegal activities.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
裁以军令，则忿戾作乱；制御小缓，则陆掠残害。
劫居人，抄商旅，啖人牛羊，略人兵马。
得赏既多，不肯去，复欲以物买铁。
边将不听，便取缣帛聚欲烧之。
边将恐怖，畏其反叛，辞谢抚顺，无敢拒违。
今狡寇未殄，而羌为巨害，如或致悔，其可追乎？
臣愚以为可募陇西羌胡守善不叛者，简直精勇，多其牢赏。
太守李参沉静有谋，必能奖厉得其死力。
当思渐消之略，不可仓卒望也。
韩卓复与劭相难反复。
于是诏百官大会朝堂，皆从劭议。
三年，举高第，再迁，六年，拜太山太守。
初平二年，黄巾三十万众入郡界。
劭纠率文武连与贼战，前后斩首数千级，获生口老弱万余人，辎重二千两，贼皆退却，郡内以安。
兴平元年，前太尉曹嵩及子德从琅邪入太山，劭遣兵迎之，未到，而徐州牧陶谦素怨嵩子操数击之，乃使轻骑追嵩、德，并杀之于郡界。
劭畏操诛，弃郡奔冀州牧袁绍。
初，安帝时河间人尹次、颍川人史玉皆坐杀人当死，次兄初及玉母军并诣官曹求代其命，而缢而物故。
尚书陈忠以罪疑从轻，议活次、玉。
劭后追驳之，据正典刑，有可存者。
其议曰：《尚书》称 天秩有礼，五服五章哉。
天讨有罪，五刑五用哉 。
而孙卿亦云： 凡制刑之本，将以禁暴恶，且惩其末也，凡爵列、官秩、赏庆、刑威，皆以类相从，使当其实也。
若德不副位，能不称官，赏不酬功，刑不应罪，不祥莫大焉。
杀人者死，伤人者刑，此百王之定制，有法之成科。
高祖入关，虽尚约法，然杀人者死，亦无宽降。
夫时化则刑重，时乱则刑轻。
《书》曰 刑罚时轻时重 ，此之谓也。
今次、玉公以清时释其私憾，阻兵安忍，僵尸道路。朝思在宽，幸至冬狱，而初、军愚狷，妄自投毙。
昔召忽亲死子纠之难，而孔子曰 经于沟读，人莫之知 。
朝氏之父非错刻峻，遂能自陨其命，班固亦云 不知赵母指括以全其宗 。
传曰 仆妾感慨而致死者，非能义勇，顾无虑耳 。
夫刑罚威狱，以类天之震燿杀戮也；温慈和惠，以放天之生殖长育也。是故春一草枯则为灾，秋一木华亦为异。
今杀无罪之初、军，而活当死之次、玉，其为枯华，不亦然乎？
陈忠不详制刑之本，而信一时之仁，遂广引八议求生之端。
夫亲故贤能功贵勤宾，岂有次、玉当罪之科哉？
若乃小大以情，原心定罪，此为求生，非谓代死可以生也。
败法乱政，悔其可追。
translation: 
If they are punished by military orders, they will be angry and rebellious; if they are slow to control, they will be plundered and killed.
They robbed residents, looted merchants and travelers, ate people, cattle and sheep, and plundered soldiers and horses.
After receiving many rewards, he refused to leave and wanted to buy iron tools with them.
The generals would not listen, so they gathered some pieces of silk and burned them.
The generals on the border were afraid that he would rebel, so they declined Fushun and did not dare to refuse to violate him.
Now the cunning bandits have not been eliminated, and the Qiang people have caused great harm. If you regret it, is it too late?
Chen Yu thought that it was possible to recruit the Qiang and Hu from Longxi to be good and not rebellious. He selected the able and brave ones and gave them more rewards.
The prefect Li Shen is calm and strategic, and he will surely be rewarded with death.
We should think of a strategy of gradual elimination, not hasty and extravagant hopes.
Han Zhuo argued repeatedly with Ying Shao.
So the imperial court ordered all officials to gather in the court hall, and they all agreed with Ying Shao's view.
In the third year, Ying Shao was promoted to a high rank and promoted again. In the sixth year, he became the prefect of Taishan.
In the second year of Chuping, 300,000 people including Huangjin entered the county.
Ying Shaojiu led the civil and military forces to fight against the thieves continuously, beheading thousands of people, and captured more than 10,000 old and weak people, carrying 2,000 taels of baggage. The thieves all retreated, and the county was at peace.
In the first year of Xingping, the former Taiwei Cao Song and his son Cao De entered Taishan from Langfu. Yingshao sent troops to meet him, but they did not arrive. Tao Qian, the shepherd of Xuzhou, resented Cao Song's son Cao Cao for attacking them several times, so he sent Qingqi to pursue Cao Song and his son and kill them in the county.
Ying Shao was afraid that Cao Cao would kill him, so he abandoned the county and went to Jizhou to pastor Yuan Shao.
At first, during the reign of Emperor An, Yin Ci from Hejian and Shi Yu from Yingchuan were both guilty of murder and should be executed. Yin Ci's brother Yin Chu and Shi Yu's mother went to Guan Cao to ask for compensation for their lives, but they died by hanging.
Chen Zhong, the minister, believed that the crime should be given a lighter sentence and suggested that Yin Ci and Shi Yu should be expelled.
Ying Shao later refuted it, saying that according to the canonical punishment, some people could survive.
His opinion said: "Shangshu" says: The order of heaven is polite, and there are five orders and five chapters.
God punishes the guilty, and the five punishments are five uses.
And Sun Qing also said: The foundation of any punishment system is to prohibit violence and evil and punish the worst. All titles, official ranks, rewards and punishments, and punishments are all based on the same kind, so that they should be regarded as true.
If the virtue is not in line with the position, the ability is not in line with the official, the reward is not for the meritorious, and the punishment is not for the guilty, then there is no greater misfortune.
Murder is punishable by death, and those who injure others are sentenced to death. This is a system established by the Hundred Kings, and it is documented and verified by law.
When Emperor Gaozu entered the Pass, he made a three-part agreement, but the death penalty for murder was not reduced.
When there is change, the punishment is severe; when there is chaos, the punishment is light.
"Shu Jing" says: Punishment is sometimes light and sometimes heavy. This is how it is said.
In this Yin period, Shi Yu relieved his private regrets and relied on his troops to endure in peace. The court's grace was lenient, and he was fortunate enough to be imprisoned in winter. But at the beginning, the army was stupid and recklessly threw himself into death.
In the past, it was difficult for Zhao Hu to die in person, but Confucius said: He hanged himself in a ditch, and no one else knew about it.
The father of the Chao family could have killed himself without making mistakes. Ban Gu also said: It is not as good as Zhao Kuo's mother to preserve her clan.
"The Biography" says: The servants and concubines who died due to emotion did not show their bravery and carelessness.
Punishments, threats, and prisons are used to imitate heaven's glory and killing; gentleness, kindness, and kindness are used to imitate heaven's reproduction and growth. Therefore, when the grass dies in the spring, it is a disaster, and when the tree blooms in the autumn, it is a miracle.
Now, killing the innocent Chu and Jun, and rescuing the damned Ci and Yu, this is like a withered flower, isn't it normal?
Chen Zhong didn't know the basis of punishment, but believed in the benevolence of a moment, so he widely quoted the Eight Han Dynasty's tips for survival.
A relative, a virtuous person, a distinguished person, a distinguished guest, a diligent guest, how can it be considered a crime to be inferior or to treat jade as a crime?
If you think that small and large prisons must be based on emotion and original intention, this is a matter of survival, not that you can survive by dying.
If the law is corrupted and the government is corrupted, there will be no regrets.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
劭凡为驳议三十篇，皆此类也。
又删定律令为《汉仪》，建安元年乃奏之。
曰：夫国之大事，莫尚载籍。
载籍也者，决嫌疑，明是非，赏刑之宜，允获厥中，俾后之人永为监焉。
故胶西相董仲舒老病致仕，朝廷每有政议，数遣廷尉张汤亲至陋巷，问其得失。
于是作《春秋决狱》二百三十二事，动以经对，言之详矣，逆臣董卓，荡覆王室，典宪焚燎，靡有孑遣，开辟以来，莫或兹酷。
今大驾东迈，巡省许都，拔出险难，其命惟新。
臣累世受恩，荣祚丰衍，窃不自揆，贪少云补，辄撰具《律本章句》、《尚书旧事》、《廷尉板令》、《决事比例》、《司徒都目》、《五曹诏书》及《春秋断狱》凡二百五十篇。
蠲去复重，为之节文。
又集驳议三十篇，以类相从，凡八十二事。
其见《汉书》二十五，《汉纪》四，皆删叙润色，以全本体。
其二十六，博采古今瑰玮之士，文章焕炳，德义可观。
其二十七，臣所创造。
岂自谓必合道衷，心焉愤邑，聊以藉手。
昔郑人以乾鼠为璞，鬻之于周，宋愚夫亦宝燕石，缇十重。
夫睹之者掩口卢胡而笑，斯文之族，无乃类旃。《左氏》实云虽有姬姜丝麻，不弃憔悴菅蒯，盖所以代匮也。
是用敢露顽才，厕于明哲之末。
虽未足纲纪国体，宣洽时雍，庶几观察，增阐圣听。惟因万机之余暇，游意省览焉。
献帝善之。
二年，诏拜劭为袁绍军谋校尉。
时始迁都于许，旧章堙没，书记罕存。
劭慨然叹息，乃缀集所闻，著《汉官礼仪故事》，凡朝廷制度，百官典式，多劭所立。
初，父奉为司隶时，并下诸官府郡国，各上前人像赞，劭乃连缀其名，录为《状人纪》。
又论当时行事，著《中汉辑序》。
撰《风俗通》，以辩物类名号，释时俗嫌疑。
translation: 
Ying Shao wrote a total of thirty refutations, all of which were of this type.
Ying Shao deleted the laws and decrees and wrote "Han Yi", which was published in the first year of Jian'an.
The memorial said: There is no major national event more important than the registration of records.
The purpose of recording records is to resolve suspicions, clarify right and wrong, and make rewards and punishments more appropriate so that future generations can learn from them.
Therefore, after Jiaoxi Prime Minister Dong Zhongshu resigned from office due to old illness, every time there was a political discussion in the court, Zhang Tang, the court official, was sent several times to the shabby alley where he lived to inquire about his gains and losses.
So he wrote down 232 things in "Spring and Autumn Judgment", and compared them with scriptures, which were explained in great detail. The rebellious minister Dong Zhuo overthrew the royal family and burned all the books. Nothing was left. Since the beginning of the world, there has been nothing more cruel than this.
Now he is marching to the east, inspecting Xudu, and escaping dangers. His destiny is new.
I have been favored for generations and have received many blessings. I stole more than I could, and I was greedy for less. I wrote a total of 250 chapters, such as "Lü Zhang Ju", "Old Affairs of Shangshu", "Tingwei Ban Ling", "Decision Proportion", "Situ Dumu", "Edicts of Five Cao" and "Spring and Autumn Period".
Delete repetitive parts and make it concise.
Thirty refutations were also collected and edited into categories, totaling eighty-two matters.
It is found in "Hanshu" in twenty-five places, and all four places in "Hanshu" have been deleted and polished to complete the original body.
There are twenty-six places where scholars have learned from ancient and modern times. Their articles are brilliant and their virtues are impressive.
There are twenty-seven chapters, created by Chen.
It cannot be said that it must be consistent with Taoism, and it can only be expressed in a casual way.
In the past, the people of Zheng used dried rats as raw jade and sold them to the Zhou people; the foolish men of the Song Dynasty also used swallow stones as treasures, which were twirled ten times.
Those who saw it covered their mouths and laughed. Most of the gentle people were like this. "Zuo Shi" actually says that even though there are concubines from a powerful country, they will not abandon the humble people. They are probably used to replace the lack.
Therefore, he dares to show his stubborn talents and attach himself to Mingzhe.
Although it is not enough to regulate the state system, at the time when the agreement was announced, it can be provided to the saints. I hope that your majesty can read it casually while taking care of all kinds of things.
Emperor Xian thought it was very good.
In the second year, the imperial edict was given to Shao to serve as a school captain for Yuan Shaojun.
At this time, the capital had just been moved to Xuchang, the old chapter no longer existed, and there were few secretaries.
Ying Shao sighed with emotion, so he compiled what he heard and wrote "Stories of Etiquette of Han Shu Officials". Most of the court systems and officials' rituals were established by Ying Shao.
At first, when Shao's father was serving as a minister, he went to all the government offices and prefectures, and everyone came forward to praise him. In response to Shao's request, he added his name and recorded it as "Zhu Ren Ji".
He also discussed what he was doing at that time and wrote the "Preface to the Collection of Chinese and Han Dynasties".
He wrote "Customs of Customs" to identify the names of things and resolve suspicions about current customs.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
文虽不典，后世服其洽闻。
凡所著述百三十六篇。
又集解《汉书》，皆传于时。
后卒于鄴。
弟子瑒、璩，并以文才称。
中兴初，有应妪者，生四子而寡。
见神光照社，试探之，乃得黄金。
自是诸子宦学，并有才名，至玚七世通显。
霍谞字叔智，魏郡鄴人也。
少为诸生，明经。
有人诬谞舅宋光于大将军梁商者，以为妄刊章文，坐系洛阳诏狱，掠考困极。
谞时年十五，奏记于商曰：将军天覆厚恩，愍舅光冤结，前者温教许为平议，虽未下吏断决其事，已蒙神明顾省之听。
皇天后土，实闻德音。
窃独踊跃，私自庆幸。
谞闻《春秋》之义，原情定过，赦事诛意，故许止虽弑君而不罪，赵盾以纵贼而见书。
此仲尼所以垂王法，汉世所宜遵前修也。
传曰： 人心不同，譬若其面。
斯盖谓大小窳隆丑美之形，至于鼻目众窍毛发之状，未有不然者也。
情之异者，刚柔舒急倨敬之间。
至于趋利避害，畏死乐生，亦复均也。
谞与光骨肉，义有相隐，言其冤滥，未必可谅，且以人情平论其理。光衣冠子孙，径路平易，位极州郡，日望征辟，亦无瑕秽纤介之累，无故刊定诏书，欲以何名？
就有所疑，当求其便安，岂有触冒死祸，以解细微？
譬犹疗饥于附子，止渴于鸩毒，未入肠胃，已绝咽喉，岂可为哉！
昔东海孝妇见枉不辜，幽灵感革，天应枯旱。
光之所坐，情既可原，守阙连年，而终不见理。
呼嗟紫宫之门，泣血两观之下，伤和致灾，为害滋甚。
凡事更赦令，不应复案。
夫以罪刑明白，尚蒙天恩，岂有冤谤无征，反不得理？
是为刑宥正罪，戮加诬侵也。
translation: 
Although his writing is not exemplary, later generations are convinced that he was knowledgeable and knowledgeable.
All writings are one hundred and thirty-six.
He also collected and interpreted the "Book of Han", all of which were handed down at that time.
Later he died in Ye.
The younger brother's sons, Ying Li and Ying Chu, were both famous for their literary talents.
In the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, there was a woman who gave birth to four sons and became a widow.
When I saw Shen Guangshi, I tried to find it and got gold.
From then on, all the scholars in the officialdom school had talents and reputations, and they became famous in the seventh generation of Yingyi.
◆Huo Chen's biography, Huo Chen's courtesy name is Shuzhi, and he was born in Ye, Wei County.
When I was young, I was a living being and understood the scriptures.
Some people falsely accused his uncle Song Guang of being a traitor to General Liang Shang. They believed that Song Guang published articles inadvertently and was imprisoned in Luoyang Prison, where he was tortured and tortured to the extreme.
Huo Xu was fifteen years old at the time, and wrote a report to Liang Shangdao: The general is as kind as heaven, and he sympathizes with his uncle Song Guang's injustice. Some time ago, Wenjiao allowed him to negotiate for him.
The emperor, the emperor, and the empress are from earth, and they actually hear the sound of virtue.
I was very happy to hear that. I heard that the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is to determine the crime according to the circumstances of the case, to pardon the crime and to punish the intention.
Therefore, although Xu Zhi was guilty of regicide, he was not prosecuted, and Zhao Dun was found guilty of being a traitor.
This is the reason why Confucius put down the king's law, and the Han Dynasty should follow it.
Ancient books say: People's hearts are different, just like their faces.
This probably means that everyone's height, height, beauty, and shape are different. As for the shape of their noses, eyes, and hair, they are all the same.
The difference in temperament is between hardness, softness, comfort, and arrogance.
The same goes for seeking advantages and avoiding disadvantages, fearing death and rejoicing in life.
Song Guang and I are related by flesh and blood, and we have mutual righteousness. If I say that he was wronged, I may not be able to forgive him, and I will judge it based on human feelings. Song Guang was a descendant of a well-dressed man, and his official career was extremely easy. He was located in a state or county, and he wanted to be recruited every day. He was not burdened by shortcomings and dirty things. He issued an imperial edict for no reason. What name did he want to use?
If you have doubts, you should seek convenience and stability. How can you risk death in order to understand the subtleties?
It is like using aconite to satisfy hunger or drinking poisonous poison to quench thirst. It has not entered the stomach and intestines and has cut off the throat. How can it be done?
Once upon a time, a filial woman in the East China Sea was wronged, and the ghost moved the sky. There was a drought for three years without rain.
The crime committed by Song Guang was excusable. He had been guarding the palace for two years, but he finally ignored him.
Screaming injustice at the gate of the Purple Palace, weeping blood under the two views, causing injury and disaster, will cause great harm.
All cases that have been pardoned should not be reopened.
Generally speaking, if the crime and punishment are clear and God has received grace, how can there be unjust slander without evidence and be inadmissible?
This is a punishment to forgive the true crime, killing and false accusation of invasion.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
不偏不党，其若是乎？
明将军德盛位尊，人臣无二，言行动天地，举厝移阴阳，诚能留神，沛然晓察，必有于公高门之福，和气立应，天下幸甚。
商高谞才志，即为奏原光罪，由是显名。
仕郡，举孝廉，稍迁金城太守。
性明达笃厚，能以恩信化诱殊俗，甚为羌胡所敬服。
遭母忧，自上归行丧。
服阙，公车征，再迁北海相，入为尚书仆射。
是时，大将军梁冀贵戚秉权，自公卿以下莫敢违忤。
谞与尚书令尹勋数奏其事，又因陛见陈闻罪失。
及冀诛后，桓帝嘉其忠节，封鄴都亭侯。
前后固让，不许。
出为河南尹，迁司隶校尉，转少府、廷尉，卒官。
子俊，安定太守。
爰延字季平，陈留外黄人也。
清苦好学，能通经教授。
性质悫，少言辞。
县令陇西牛述好士知人，乃礼请延为廷掾，范丹为功曹，濮阳潜为主籍，常共言谈而已。
后令史昭以为乡啬夫，仁化大行，人但闻啬夫，不知郡县。
在事二年，州府礼请，不就。
桓帝时征博士，太尉杨秉等举贤良方正，再迁为侍中。
帝游上林苑，从容问延曰： 朕何如主也？
对曰： 陛下为汉中主。
帝曰： 何以言之？
对曰： 尚书令陈蕃任事则化，中常侍黄门豫政则乱，是以知陛下可与为善，可与为非。
帝曰： 昔朱云廷折栏槛，今侍中面称朕违，敬闻阙矣。
拜五官中郎将，转长水校尉，迁魏郡太守，征拜大鸿胪。
帝以延儒生，常特宴见。
时，太史令上言客星经帝坐，帝密以问延。
延因上封事曰：臣闻天子尊无为上，故天以为子，位临臣庶，威重四海。
translation: 
Is it possible to be impartial and impartial?
The generals of the Ming Dynasty have great virtues and high positions, and are unique among ministers. Their words and deeds can move heaven and earth, and their actions can move yin and yang. If they can be paid attention to and examined carefully, they will surely be blessed by the East China Sea. If you are harmonious and responsive, the world will be very lucky.
Liang Shang thought that Huo Chen was very talented and intellectual, so he immediately submitted a petition to pardon Song Guang's crime. From then on, Huo Chen's reputation became very prominent.
Huo Xu served as an official there, was promoted to Xiaolian, and later moved to the post of prefect of Jincheng.
Huo Xu has an upright and sincere character, and is able to seduce people from all walks of life with kindness and trust. He is highly respected by the Qiang and Hu people.
When my mother died, I wrote a letter and went home to hold a funeral.
After the mourning clothes were finished, he was summoned for public service, became the prime minister of Beihai, and entered the court as a minister.
At this time, the general Liang Ji and his relatives had exclusive power, and no one from the minister level dared to violate it.
Huo Xu and Shangshu ordered Yin Xun to report the matter several times, and they confessed their faults in person when they met.
After Liang Ji was killed, Emperor Huan commended him for his loyalty and granted him the title of Tinghou of Yedu.
He resolutely resigned and did not agree.
Later, he was promoted to Henan Yin, moved to Sili Xiaowei, and was transferred to Shaofu and Tingwei. Died in official position.
His son Huo Jun became the governor of Anding.
◆Yan Yan's biography, whose courtesy name is Ji Ping, is from Chen Liuwai Huang.
He comes from a poor family, is very studious, and can teach apprentices well.
His temperament is simple and sincere, and he seldom talks.
The county magistrate Longxi Niu Shu was a good scholar and knew people, so he politely asked Yuan Yan to be the court official, Fan Dan to be the meritorious official, and Puyang Qian to be the chief bookkeeper. They often talked together.
Later, Shi Zhao was ordered to use him as a village miser, and benevolent government and education became popular. People only heard of the miser's name and did not know who the county was.
After two years in office, the state government politely invited me, but I didn't go.
When Emperor Huan recruited doctors, Taiwei Yang Bing and others promoted him to be virtuous and upright, and Yuan Yan was promoted to the rank of Attendant.
The emperor swam to Linyuan and asked Yuanyan calmly: What kind of monarch am I?
He replied: Your Majesty is the Lord of Hanzhong.
Emperor asked: How?
Correspondence: Shangshu ordered Chen Fan to handle matters successfully, and the minister Huangmen intervened in the government affairs to prevent chaos. Therefore, he knew that your majesty can be kind to others, and he can also be wrong with others.
The emperor said: In the past, Zhu Yun's admonition to the emperor caused the court to break down the railings, but now the servants call me "disobedient" and are respectfully heard in the court.
So he worshiped Yuanyan as a general of the rank and file of the five sense organs, then a lieutenant of Changshui, then a prefect of Wei County, and was conscripted into the rank of Dahonglu.
The emperor often treated Confucian scholars with special banquets.
At that time, Taishi Ling came forward to persuade the guest star to pass through the emperor's throne, and the emperor asked Yan secretly.
Yuan Yan then wrote a letter saying: I have heard that the Son of Heaven is supreme, so God regards him as his son. He is above the subjects and his prestige is more important than anything in the world.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
动静以礼，则星辰顺序；意在邪僻，则晷度错违。
陛下以河南尹邓万有龙潜之旧，封为通侯，恩重公卿，惠丰宗室。
加顷引见，与之对博，上下黩，有亏尊严。
臣闻之，帝左右者，所以咨政德也。
故周公戒成王曰 其朋其朋 ，言慎所与也。
昔宋闵公与强臣共博，列妇人于侧，积此无礼，以致大灾。
武帝与幸臣李延年、韩嫣同卧起，尊爵重赐，情欲无，遂生骄淫之心，行不义之事，卒延年被戮，嫣伏其事。
夫爱之则不觉其过，恶之则不知其善，所以事多放滥，物情生怨。
故王者赏人必酬其功，爵人必甄其德。善人同处，则日闻嘉训；恶人从游，则日生邪情。
孔子曰： 益者三友，损者三友。
邪臣惑君，乱妾危主，以非所言则悦于耳，以非所行则玩于目，故令人君不能远之。
仲尼曰： 惟女子与小人为难养，近之则不逊，远之则怨。
盖圣人之明戒也！
昔光武皇帝与严光俱寝，上天之异，其夕即见。
夫以光武之圣德，严光之高贤，君臣合道，尚降此变，幸况陛下今所亲幸，以贱为贵，以卑为尊哉？
惟陛下远谗谀之人，纳謇謇之士，除左右之权，寤宦官之敝。
使积善日熙，佞恶消殄，则乾灾可除。
帝省其奏。
因以病自上，乞骸骨还家。灵帝复特征，不行，病卒。
子骥，白马令，亦称善士。
徐璆字孟玉，广陵海西人也。
父淑，度辽将军，有名于边。
璆少博学，辟公府，举高第。
稍迁荆州刺史。时，董太后姊子张忠为南阳太守，因势放滥，臧罢数亿。
璆临当之部，太后遣中常侍以忠属璆。
璆对曰： 臣身为国，不敢闻命。
translation: 
If the movement and stillness are in harmony, then the stars will be in order; if the intention is evil, then the dial will be wrong.
His Majesty believed that Henan Yin and Deng Wan had an old friendship with Long Qian, so he made him Tonghou, showing kindness to the ministers and benefiting the clan.
He was often introduced, and playing against him was arrogant and disrespectful.
I heard that I was on the emperor's side for the purpose of consulting on political ethics.
Therefore, Duke Zhou's warning became the king's rule: be friends with friends, which means be careful when making friends.
In the past, Duke Min of the Song Dynasty was arrogant with powerful ministers, and his wife was by his side. He was so rude, which led to great disaster.
Emperor Wu slept and rose with his lucky ministers Li Yannian and Han Yan. They were given great honors and their lust was insatiable, so they became arrogant and extravagant and committed unjust things. In the end, Yannian was killed and Han Yan was convicted.
If you love someone, you don't realize their faults, and if you hate someone, you don't know their goodness. Therefore, things tend to be excessive and things will cause resentment.
Therefore, when a king rewards people, he must reward their merits, and when he treats people with titles, he must understand their virtues. When he is with good people, he will hear some good words every day; when he associates with evil people, he will have evil feelings every day.
Confucius said: There are three friends who benefit and three friends who harm.
Evil ministers confuse the king, adulterous concubines make the master dangerous, words that are not what they say are pleasing to the ears, and actions that are wrong are fun to the eyes, so the king cannot stay away from them.
Confucius said: Only women and villains are difficult to care for. Those who are close will not be inferior to them, and those who are far away will be resentful.
This is the clear commandment of the saint.
In the past, Emperor Guangwu and Yan Guang slept together, and the difference in heaven appeared that night.
With the saintliness of Guangwu, the virtuousness of Yanguang, and the monarch and his ministers being of the same mind, yet such a variation is still present, not to mention that the person whom your majesty is dear to now regards humbleness as noble, and humbleness as honor?
I hope that Your Majesty will stay away from those who flatter you, accept those who flatter you, get rid of the powerful people on the left and right, and understand the shortcomings of eunuchs.
The more good things are made and the bad things are eliminated, then the disasters can be eliminated.
The emperor inspected the report.
So he took advantage of his illness and asked to retire and go home. Emperor Ling called again, but he failed and died of illness.
Zi Yuanji, the magistrate of Baima County, was also known as a philanthropist.
According to the biography of Xu Qiu, Xu Chu was named Meng Yu and was from Haixi in Guangling.
His father, Xu Shu, was a general who conquered the Liao Dynasty and was famous in the frontier.
Xu Chu was a learned man when he was young, so he was called into the palace and promoted to a high rank.
Soon he was promoted to the governor of Jingzhou. At that time, Zhang Zhong, the son of Governor Dong's sister, was the governor of Nanyang. Because of his power and unruly behavior, he gained hundreds of millions in stolen goods.
When Xu Chu was in charge, the Queen Mother sent a regular attendant to entrust Zhang Zhong to Xu Chu.
Xu Chu replied: As a countryman, I dare not obey orders.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
太后怒，遽征忠为司隶校尉，以相威临。
璆到州，举奏忠臧余一亿，使冠军县上簿诣大司农，以彰暴其事。
又奏五郡太守及属县有臧污者，悉征案罪，威风大行。
中平元年，与中郎将朱俊击黄巾贼于宛，破之。
张忠怨璆，与诸阉官构造无端，璆遂以罪征。
有破贼功，得免官归家。
后再征，迁汝南太守，转东海相，所在化行。
献帝迁许，以廷尉征，当诣京师，道为袁术所劫，授璆以上公之位。
璆乃叹曰： 龚胜、鲍宣，独何人哉？
守之必死！
术不敢逼。
术死军破，璆得其盗国玺，及还许，上之，并送前所假汝南、东海二郡印绶。
司徒赵温谓璆曰： 君遭大难，犹存此邪？
璆曰： 昔苏武困于匈奴，不队七尺之节，况此方寸印乎？
后拜太常，使持节拜曹操为丞相。
操以相让璆，璆不敢当。
卒于官。
translation: 
The Empress Dowager was angry and quickly summoned Zhang Zhong as the Sili Xiaowei to attack with power.
After Xu Chu arrived in the state, he reported the case to Zhang Zhong and Zang Yu 100 million, and sent Champion County Supervisor to Da Si Nong to expose the matter.
He also reported to the governors of the five counties and the subordinate counties that there were corrupt thieves, and they were all brought to justice.
In the first year of Zhongping, he and Zhonglang general Zhu Jun attacked the Yellow Turban bandits in Wan County and defeated them.
Zhang Zhong hated Xu Chu and fabricated unfounded crimes with other eunuchs. Xu Chu was recalled because of the crime.
Because he succeeded in defeating the thief, he was exempted from official duties and returned home.
Later, he was recruited again and moved to Runan to be the governor, and then to be the prime minister of the East China Sea. The place where he lived was very popular.
Emperor Xian moved the capital to Xuchang, and Xu Chu was recruited as a court lieutenant to serve in the capital. However, he was kidnapped by Yuan Shu on the way and was granted the title of Grand Duke.
Xu Chu sighed and said, "What kind of people are Gong Sheng and Bao Xuan?"
If you defend it, you will die!
Yuan Shu did not dare to force him.
After Yuan Shu died and the army was defeated, Xu Chu obtained the imperial seal stolen by Yuan. When he arrived in Xuchang, he handed it over to the emperor and gave it to the seals and ribbons of Runan and Donghai counties.
Situ Zhao Wen said to Xu Chu: "You were in great danger, did you still keep this?"
Xu Chu said: In the past, when Su Wu was trapped by the Xiongnu, he did not lose the seven-foot seal, so how about this square-inch seal?
Later, he was worshiped as Taichang, and he was sent to worship Cao Cao as the prime minister.
Cao Cao gave the opportunity to Xu Chu, but Chu did not dare to accept the offer.
Died in official position.


