Chunk 0: 
original: 
范云沈约范云，字彦龙，南乡舞阴人，晋平北将军汪六世孙也。
年八岁，遇宋豫州刺史殷琰于涂，琰异之，要就席，云风姿应对，傍若无人。
琰令赋诗，操笔便就，坐者叹焉。
尝就亲人袁照学，昼夜不怠。
照抚其背曰： 卿精神秀朗而勤于学，卿相才也。
少机警有识，且善属文，便尺牍，下笔辄成，未尝定藁，时人每疑其宿构。
父抗，为郢府参军，云随父在府，时吴兴沈约、新野庾杲之与抗同府，见而友之。
起家郢州西曹书佐，转法曹行参军。
俄而沈攸之举兵围郢城，抗时为府长流，入城固守，留家属居外。
云为军人所得，攸之召与语，声色甚厉，云容貌不变，徐自陈说。
攸之乃笑曰： 卿定可儿，且出就舍。
明旦，又召令送书入城。
城内或欲诛之，云曰： 老母弱弟，悬命沈氏，若违其命，祸必及亲，今日就戮，甘心如荠。
长史柳世隆素与云善，乃免之。
齐建元初，竟陵王子良为会稽太守，云始随王，王未之知也。
会游秦望，使人视刻石文，时莫能识，云独诵之，王悦，自是宠冠府朝。
王为丹阳尹，召为主簿，深相亲任。
时进见齐高帝，值有献白乌者，帝问此为何瑞？云位卑，最后答曰： 臣闻王者敬宗庙，则白乌至。
translation: 
Fan Yun, courtesy name Yanlong, was born in Wuyin, Nanxiang, and was the sixth-generation descendant of Jiewang, the Pingbei general of the Jin Dynasty.
When he was eight years old, he met Yin Yan, the governor of Yuzhou in the Song Dynasty, on the road. Yin Yan saw that his appearance was very unusual, so he invited him to sit with him.
Yin Yan asked him to compose a poem, and he wrote it immediately.
Everyone present was impressed. Fan Yun once studied with his relative Yuan Zhao and worked tirelessly day and night.
Yuan Zhao patted his shoulder and said, "You are bright and cheerful, and you are diligent in studying." He will definitely be a talented person in the future.
Fan Yun has been smart and flexible since he was a child, and he is insightful when dealing with things. He is good at writing articles and is familiar with various literary styles such as letters.
His father, Fan Kang, served in the Ying Mansion and joined the army. Fan Yun lived with his father in Fubao. At that time, Shen Yue from Wuxing, Yu Daizhi from Xinye, and Fan Kangtong were working in Ying Mansion. Fan Yun immediately became good friends after meeting them.
Fan Yun first served as Shuzuo of Xicao in Yingzhou, and then joined the army as Cao Xing of Facao.
Soon Shen Youzhi rebelled and raised troops to besiege Ying City. Fan Kang was appointed Changliu of Ying Mansion at that time and entered the city to take charge of defense, leaving his family members outside the city.
Fan Yun was captured by enemy soldiers, and Youzhi interrogated him personally. His tone was very stern, but Fan Yun's appearance remained unchanged and he answered calmly.
After hearing this, Youzhi smiled and said: "You are such a pleasant child. Go home for now."
The next morning, Youzhi sent for Fan Yun again and ordered him to deliver a message to Cheng Bao.
Some of the defenders in the city advocated killing Fan Yun. Fan Yun said: I have an old mother and a young brother at home outside the city. Their lives are all in Shen's hands. If I disobey orders, they will be harmed. Today I am killed for them, and I am willing to die without any regrets.
Longshi Ryu Shiryong Pingsuo was friendly with Fan Yun and managed to save him from death.
In the early years of Jianyuan of Qi Dynasty, Prince Liang of Jingling became the prefect of Kuaiji, and Fan Yun just started to follow Prince Jingling at that time.
The king didn't know him well. It happened that King Jingling was visiting Qinwang Mountain. The king asked the people around him to identify the ancient characters on the stone inscriptions, but no one could understand them. Only Fan Yun could read the inscriptions. King Jingling was very happy. From then on, Jiang Zhou was favored more than anyone else in the same house.
When King Jingling was appointed Danyang Yin, Fan Yun was summoned to be the chief administrator, and he was highly valued by his close associates.
When he came to see Emperor Gao of Qi, someone happened to offer a white crow. Emperor Gao asked what this meant was a sign. Because Fan Yun was in a low position, he finally replied: I heard that when the emperor worships the ancestral temple, white crows will come.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
时谒庙始毕。
帝曰： 卿言是也。
感应之理，一至此乎！
转补征北南郡王刑狱参军事，领主簿如故，迁尚书殿中郎。
子良为司徒，又补记室参军事，寻授通直散骑侍郎、领本州大中正。
出为零陵内史，在任洁己，省烦苛，去游费，百姓安之。
明帝召还都，及至，拜散骑侍郎。
复出为始兴内史。
郡多豪猾大姓，二千石有不善者，谋共杀害，不则逐去之。
边带蛮俚，尤多盗贼，前内史皆以兵刃自卫。
云入境，抚以恩德，罢亭候，商贾露宿，郡中称为神明。
仍迁假节、建武将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
初，云与尚书仆射江祏善，祏姨弟徐艺为曲江令，深以托云。
translation: 
At that time, the visit to the ancestral temple had just ended.
Emperor Yigao said: Just as you said.
The principle of induction between heaven and man can be so miraculously consistent.
Fan Yun later transferred to the prison of the North and South County Prince to join the military. He also served as the chief secretary and was promoted to the position of Zhonglang in the Shangshu Palace.
When Xiao Ziliang was a Situ, Jianyun joined the military affairs department and was soon awarded the title of Minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, and also the chief of the Honshu Dazhongzheng.
Later, he served as the internal history of Lingling. During his tenure, he was able to keep himself clean and tidy, eliminating many cumbersome government orders and unnecessary expenses, so that the people could live and work in peace and contentment.
Emperor Qi Ming summoned Fan Yun back to the capital. After arriving, he was granted the title of Minister of Sanqi.
He also served as the internal history of Shixing.
There are many powerful and cunning families in Shixing County. If the county governor does not treat them well, they will conspire to kill him together. If they fail, they will drive the governor away.
The border counties of Shixing were inhabited by barbarian tribes, and there were particularly many thieves in these areas. In the past, all the officials in the imperial office wore weapons for self-defense.
After Fan Yun arrived in Shixing, he used his kindness to appease them and removed the surveillance post.
The merchants who came and went could sleep in peace, and the people in the county praised him as a god, so he was promoted to Jiajie, General Jianwu, General Pingyue Zhonglang, and Governor of Guangzhou.
At the beginning, Ji Yun was friendly with Shangshu Pu Shesi Yu, and his younger brother served as the magistrate of Diliao County, entrusting Xian Yi to Lian Nuo for care.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
有谭俨者，县之豪族，艺鞭之，俨以为耻，诣京诉云，云坐征还下狱，会赦免。
永元二年，起为国子博士。
初，云与高祖遇于齐竟陵王子良邸，又尝接里闬，高祖深器之。
及义兵至京邑，云时在城内。
东昏既诛，侍中张稷使云衔命出城，高祖因留之，便参帷幄，仍拜黄门侍郎，与沈约同心翊赞。
俄迁大司马谘议参军、领录事。
梁台建，迁侍中。
时高祖纳齐东昏余妃，颇妨政事，云尝以为言，未之纳也。
后与王茂同入卧内，云又谏曰： 昔汉祖居山东，贪财好色，及入关定秦，财帛无所取，妇女无所幸，范增以为其志大故也。
今明公始定天下，海内想望风声，奈何袭昏乱之踪，以女德为累。
translation: 
Zhanli is a wealthy family in the county. He was punished by Xu Yi and was flogged. Tan Bao felt humiliated and went to the capital to accuse Fan Yun. Fan Yun was recalled to the capital and convicted and imprisoned. It happened to be an amnesty and he was exempted from punishment.
In the second year of Qi Yongyuan, he was re-appointed as Dr. Guozi.
At first, Ji Yun had met Luan Chandan at the residence of King Tuzao of Zhajing. Yi had lived in a nearby lane, and Liang Gaozu thought highly of him.
When the army opposing Shuhunhou arrived in the capital, Fan Yun was in the city.
After Saihunhou was executed, Zhang Ji, the servant, sent Fan Yun out of the city with a mission. Luan Gaozu kept him and made him serve as a staff officer in the army and strategize. He was also awarded the title of Huangmen Shilang, and worked together with Shen Yue to assist Gaozu.
Soon he was promoted to Grand Sima, joined the army and recorded affairs.
After the establishment of the Liang Dynasty, Fan Yun was promoted to the rank of Shizhong.
At that time, Liang Gaozuna married Qi Shuhunhou's concubine Yu, which seriously affected the government affairs of the court. Fan Yun once made a remonstrance about this, but it was not accepted.
Later, Fan Yun and Wang Mao entered Gaozu's bedroom and remonstrated again: When Mo Xuanzu was in Shandong in the past, he was greedy for wealth and loved beautiful women; but after entering the customs and pacifying the Qin Dynasty, he did not collect property or be intimate with women. Fan Zeng believed that this was because of his lofty ambitions.
Now, Your Majesty, you have just stabilized the world, and everyone in the world admires your reputation. How can you follow in the footsteps of the confused king and be dragged down by women and delay the great event?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
王茂因起拜曰： 范云言是，公必以天下为念，无宜留惜。
高祖默然。
云便疏令以余氏赉茂，高祖贤其意而许之。
明日，赐云、茂钱各百万。
天监元年，高祖受禅，柴燎于南郊，云以侍中参乘。
礼毕，高祖升辇，谓云曰： 朕之今日，所谓懔乎若朽索之驭六马。
云对曰： 亦愿陛下日慎一日。
高祖善之。
是日，迁散骑常侍、吏部尚书；以佐命功封霄城县侯，邑千户。
云以旧恩见拔，超居佐命，尽诚翊亮，知无不为。
高祖亦推心任之，所奏多允。
尝侍宴，高祖谓临川王宏、鄱阳王恢曰： 我与范尚书少亲善，申四海之敬；今为天下主，此礼既革，汝宜代我呼范为兄。
二王下席拜，与云同车还尚书下省，时人荣之。
其年，东宫建，云以本官领太子中庶子，寻迁尚书右仆射，犹领吏部。
顷之，坐违诏用人，免吏部，犹为仆射。
云性笃睦，事寡嫂尽礼，家事必先谘而后行。
好节尚奇，专趣人之急。
少时与领军长史王畡善，畡亡于官舍，贫无居宅，云乃迎丧还家。躬营含殡。
事竟陵王子良恩礼甚隆，云每献损益，未尝阿意。
子良尝启齐武帝论云为郡。
帝曰： 庸人，闻其恒相卖弄，不复穷法，当宥之以远。
子良曰： 不然。
translation: 
Wang Mao also took the opportunity to stand up and bow down and said: "What Fan Yun said is absolutely true. My lord, you must put the world's major events first and you should not regret the future."
Emperor Gaozu was silent after hearing this.
Fan Yun then went to Shu and suggested that Wang Mao should be rewarded with the Yu family. Emperor Gaozu thought that what he said was loyal and upright, so he approved it.
The next day, Emperor Gaozu rewarded Fan Yun and Wang Mao with one million coins each.
In the first year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu of Liang received Zen and ascended the throne. He held a ceremony of burning firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven in the southern suburbs. Fan Yun participated in the ceremony as an attendant.
After the sacrifice ceremony, Emperor Gaozu boarded the chariot and said to Fan Yun: My mood today is just like what the ancients said: being cautious is like driving six horses with rotten reins.
Fan Yun replied: I hope your Majesty will become more cautious every day.
Emperor Gaozu admired Fan Yun very much.
On the same day, he was awarded the title of Changshi of Sanqi and Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. He was also granted the title of Marquis of Xiaocheng County with the title of Marquis of Xiaocheng County, with a settlement of 1,000 households for his meritorious service in assisting the emperor to ascend the throne.
Fan Yun was promoted based on his old friendship with Emperor Gaozu, and his official position was higher than that of other ministers who served. He also devoted his loyalty to assisting the king and tried his best to do everything he could think of.
Emperor Gaozu also appointed him with confidence and boldness, and most of the things asked by Fan Yun were granted.
Fan Yun once accompanied the imperial banquet. Emperor Gaozu said to Xiao Hong, King of Linchuan, and Xiao Hui, King of Poyang: Fan Shangshu and I have been friendly and affectionate as brothers since we were young. Now that I am the lord of the world, this brotherly courtesy has become the relationship between monarch and minister. You should call Fan Yun brother on my behalf.
The two kings left the banquet to pay homage and offered homage, and took a carriage with Fan Yun back to the lower province of Shangshu. People at that time were very proud of Fan Yun.
In this year, the crown prince was established, and Fan Yun took over the crown prince's concubine with his original official position. Soon he was promoted to the right servant of the minister, and he still held the post of official official.
Later, he was found guilty of employing people against the emperor's will and was dismissed from the official position, but still served as a servant.
Fan Yun has an honest and easy-going temperament, and serves his widowed sister-in-law with all his heart and courtesy. All matters at home must be discussed with his widowed sister-in-law before being implemented.
He likes integrity, advocates great deeds, and is dedicated to helping others in distress.
When he was a child, he was friendly with the commander Shi Wangke. Later Wangke died in the official house. The family was poor and did not have a house of his own, so Fan Yun transported the deceased back to his home and personally handled all the funeral arrangements.
When serving Prince Jingling, he received great favor and courtesy. But every time Fan Yun spoke about his achievements and failures in politics, he never showed any flattery.
Ziliang once asked Emperor Wu of Qi to select Fan Yun as the county governor.
Emperor Wu said: Fan Yun is a mediocre man. I heard that he often shows off his talents. I will not pursue it thoroughly now. I should forgive him and go to a remote place to serve.
Ziliang replied: That's not the case.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
云动相规诲，谏书具存，请取以奏。
既至，有百余纸，辞皆切直。
帝叹息，因谓子良曰： 不谓云能尔。
方使弼汝，何宜出守。
齐文惠太子尝出东田观获，顾谓众宾曰： 刈此亦殊可观。
众皆唯唯。
云独曰： 夫三时之务，实为长勤。伏愿殿下知稼穑之艰难，无徇一朝之宴逸。
既出，侍中萧缅先不相识，因就车握云手曰： 不图今日复闻谠言。
及居选官，任守隆重，书牍盈案，宾客满门，云应对如流，无所壅滞，官曹文墨，发擿若神，时人咸服其明赡。
性颇激厉，少威重，有所是非，形于造次，士或以此少之。
初，云为郡号称廉洁，及居贵重，颇通馈饷；然家无蓄积，随散之亲友。
二年，卒，时年五十三。
translation: 
Fan Yun often advised and taught me, and the documents of his admonitions are still preserved. Please let me get them and present them to you.
When I took a look, I found more than a hundred pieces of paper, all with sincere and candid words.
Emperor Wu sighed infinitely, so he said to Ziliang: I didn't expect Fan Yun to be like this.
You just let him assist you, how can you let him go out to be a county guard?
Prince Qi Wenhui once went to Shutian to watch the harvest of crops. He turned around and said to his entourage: "It turns out that harvesting crops is also worth seeing."
Everyone is just right.
Only Fan Yun said: The busy farming season three times a year is really a long-term hard work. I hope that Your Highness can understand the hardship of farming and not be greedy for one-day pleasure and ease.
After coming out of Shutian, the servant Xiao Mian, who had not known Fan Yun before, approached Fan Yun's car, held his hand and said: I didn't expect to hear words of loyalty again today.
When Fan Yun was in charge of selecting officials, he held a noble and prestigious position. There were piles of letters and documents, and the house was full of guests. However, Fan Yun was able to cope with the situation smoothly without any obstruction. The official documents and instructions were sent out quickly. People at that time admired his intelligence and erudition.
Fan Yun's character was straightforward and easily excited, lacking dignity and solemnity. He showed his right and wrong in his heart rashly, and some scholar-bureaucrats were dissatisfied with him because of this.
At first, when Fan Yun became the county governor, people praised him for his integrity. However, after he became more powerful, he valued giving gifts to others. However, the family had no savings, so whenever he had income, he immediately distributed it to relatives and friends.
In the second year of Tianjian, Fan Yun died at the age of fifty-three.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
高祖为之流涕，即日舆驾临殡。
诏曰： 追远兴悼，常情所笃；况问望斯在，事深朝寄者乎！
故散骑常侍、尚书右仆射、霄城侯云，器范贞正，思怀经远，爰初立志，素履有闻。
脱巾来仕，清绩仍著。
燮务登朝，具瞻惟允。
绸缪翊赞，义简朕心，虽勤非负靮，而旧同论讲。
方骋远涂，永毘庶政；奄致丧殒，伤悼于怀。
宜加命秩，式备徽典。
可追赠侍中、卫将军，仆射、侯如故。
并给鼓吹一部。
礼官请谥曰宣，敕赐谥文。
有集三十卷。
子孝才嗣，官至太子中舍人。
沈约，字休文，吴兴武康人也。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu burst into tears when he heard the news, and immediately drove to express his condolences in person.
The edict was issued and said: Recalling the past makes people feel sad, which is due to deep emotions; besides, his reputation and reputation are still among us, and he is a highly valued minister.
The late Sanqi Changshi, Shangshu Youpuse, and Xiaocheng Hou Fanyun were loyal and upright in the eyes of the law. They made far-sighted plans for national affairs. They had great ambitions in their early years and had a long-standing reputation for their daily work.
Since he took off his turban and became an official, Qingming's political achievements have been very remarkable.
He is indeed the prime minister and assistant minister that everyone looks up to when co-managing state affairs in the DPRK.
His diligent assistance and his righteousness have always been engraved in my heart. Although he is not in charge of military affairs, he is a civil servant who has long discussed and planned government affairs with me.
Just when he had a long way to go and had been supporting the country for a long time, he suddenly lost his life, which really makes people feel infinitely sad.
Officials, titles, ranks, and salaries should be given to complete the beautiful system.
He can be given the posthumous title of Shizhong or General of the Guard, but the title of Pushe or Marquis remains unchanged.
And rewarded with a drum band.
Officials from the Ministry of Rites requested that the title of Mi be added as Xuan, and the emperor ordered that the title of Mi should be changed to Wen.
There are thirty volumes of collected works.
His son Fan Xiaocai inherited the title and became a prince.
Shen Yue, courtesy name Xiuwen, was born in Wukang, Wuxing.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
祖林子，宋征虏将军。
父璞，淮南太守。
璞元嘉末被诛，约幼潜窜，会赦免。
既而流寓孤贫，笃志好学，昼夜不倦。
母恐其以劳生疾，常遣减油灭火。
而昼之所读，夜辄诵之，遂博通群籍，能属文。
起家奉朝请。
济阳蔡兴宗闻其才而善之；兴宗为郢州刺史，引为安西外兵参军，兼记室。
兴宗尝谓其诸子曰： 沈记室人伦师表，宜善事之。
及为荆州，又为征西记室参军，带关西令。
兴宗卒，始为安西晋安王法曹参军，转外兵，并兼记室。
入为尚书度支郎。
齐初为征虏记室，带襄阳令，所奉之王，齐文惠太子也。
translation: 
His grandfather, Shen Linzi, was the general of Nanchi Sai.
His father Yilong once served as the prefect of Kuangzhi.
Xuan Hui was executed in the last years of Yuanjia. The young Shen Yue hid in Tibet to avoid persecution. Only after a general amnesty did he avoid exile.
After that, he lived in a foreign country for a long time and faced a life of loneliness and poverty. However, he was determined to learn and worked tirelessly day and night.
His mother was worried that he would become ill from overwork, so she often cut down the lamp oil and extinguished the lights to make him go to bed early.
However, Shen Yue just read during the day and recited silently at night. Finally, he read a lot of books and wrote good articles.
At the beginning, Yibao served as a court official.
Yuanbao Ji Xingsai heard that he was talented and appreciated him very much. When Cai Xingzong was appointed governor of Yingzhou, he invited foreign soldiers from Anxi to join the army and also served as a recorder.
Tomb Emperor Zong often said to his sons: Shen Jishi's conduct can serve as a model for others, and you should learn from him.
Later, Cai Xingzong was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, and he asked someone to join the army in the Zhengxi Record Office to lead the magistrate of Youxian County.
After Cai Xingzong's death, he began to appoint Facao, King of Anxi and Jin Dynasties, to join the army, transfer to foreign soldiers to join the army, and also serve as a recorder.
He became Shangshu Duzhilang.
At the beginning of the investigation, Yimian was the record room of Zhenglu, with the order of Sedang, and the one he served was the king of Mansese.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
太子入居东宫，为步兵校尉，管书记，直永寿省，校四部图书。
时东宫多士，约特被亲遇，每直入见，影斜方出。
当时王侯到宫，或不得进，约每以为言。
太子曰： 吾生平懒起，是卿所悉，得卿谈论，然后忘寝。
卿欲我夙兴，可恒早入。
迁太子家令，后以本官兼著作郎，迁中书郎，本邑中正，司徒右长史，黄门侍郎。
时竟陵王亦招士，约与兰陵萧琛、琅邪王融、陈郡谢朓、南乡范云、乐安任昉等皆游焉，当世号为得人。
俄兼尚书左丞，寻为御史中丞，转车骑长史。
隆昌元年，除吏部郎，出为宁朔将军、东阳太守。
明帝即位，进号辅国将军，征为五兵尚书，迁国子祭酒。
明帝崩，政归冢宰，尚书令徐孝嗣使约撰定遗诏。
迁左卫将军，寻加通直散骑常侍。
永元二年，以母老表求解职，改授冠军将军、司徒左长史，征虏将军、南清河太守。
高祖在西邸，与约游旧，建康城平，引为骠骑司马，将军如故。
时高祖勋业既就，天人允属，约尝扣其端，高祖默而不应。
佗日又进曰： 今与古异，不可以淳风期万物。
translation: 
The prince moved into Shu Palace and was appointed as the captain of the infantry school. He was in charge of the secretary of the East Palace, directing Yongshou Province and collating four books.
During the period of time, there were many talented people in the palace of the prince, but Shen Yue was particularly close and trusted. He went to the palace every morning to pay homage to the prince, and did not come out until the sun was setting in the west.
At that time, the princes went to the East Palace to see the prince, but some of them were not allowed to enter. This matter was often mentioned in the palace.
The prince said: I am always too lazy to get up early. You know this. After listening to your talk, I forget to sleep.
If you want me to get up early, come to the palace early to see me.
He was moved to the crown prince's family, and later he was appointed as an official and a scholar, moved to Zhongshu Lang, Zhongzheng of the city, Situ Youchangshi, and Huangmen Shilang.
At that time, King Jingling was also looking for talented people. Shen Yue, Xiao Chen of Lanling, Wang Rong of Langxie, Xie Tiao of Chenjun, Fan Yun of Nanxiang, Ren Fang of Le'an and others all visited the palace of King Jingling. Everyone in the world praised King Jingling for his ability to know people.
Soon he was appointed as Minister Zuocheng, and then as Yushi Zhongcheng, and he was transferred to the chariot and long history.
In the first year of Longchang, he was promoted to general Ningshuo and prefect of Shuyang in addition to the officials.
When Emperor Ming of Qi came to the throne, Shen Yue was promoted to the title of General of the Auxiliary State, appointed as the Minister of the Five Arms, and moved to the State to offer wine.
Emperor Ming died, and the government returned to the prime minister. Shangshu ordered Xu Xiaosi to let Shen Yue write a decree to dispatch Shao.
He was moved to the left guard general, and soon became a regular servant of Zhi Sanqi.
In the second year of Yongyuan, because his mother was old and petitioned to be relieved of his post, he was awarded the titles of Champion General and Situ Zuo Changshi, and the titles of General Zhenglu and Grand Administrator of Nanqinghe.
At the beginning, when Gaozu was in the west residence of King Jingling, he had an old acquaintance with Shen. After the city of Jiankang was captured, he was sent down to the Hussars and Sima, and he continued to serve as a general.
During the period of Emperor Gaozu's great achievements, ascending the throne and proclaiming himself emperor was the will of God and the people's will. Shen Yue once raised this issue with Gaozu, but Gaozu responded silently.
Another day, Shen Yue spoke to Emperor Gaozu again and said: Today is different from ancient times. We cannot expect everyone to maintain a simple style.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
士大夫攀龙附凤者，皆望有尺寸之功，以保其福禄。
今童儿牧竖，悉知齐祚已终，莫不云明公其人也。
天文人事，表革运之征，永元以来，尤为彰著。
谶云 行中水，作天子 ，此又历然在记。
天心不可违，人情不可失，苟是历数所至，虽欲谦光，亦不可得已。 高祖曰： 吾方思之。
对曰： 公初杖兵樊、沔，此时应思，今王业已就，何所复思。
昔武王伐纣，始入，民便曰吾君，武王不违民意，亦无所思。
公自至京邑，已移气序，比于周武，迟速不同。
若不早定大业，稽天人之望，脱有一人立异，便损威德。
且人非金玉，时事难保。
岂可以建安之封，遗之子孙？
若天子还都，公卿在位，则君臣分定，无复异心。
君明于上，臣忠于下，岂复有人方更同公作贼。
translation: 
The scholar-bureaucrats all cling to the dragon and the phoenix, hoping to gain a certain amount of merit in order to ensure their fortune.
Now even the children and shepherd boys know that Qi's energy is exhausted, and everyone says that you should take his place.
Moreover, no matter astronomy or human affairs, there are signs of changes in the national destiny, especially since Shuhun Hou Yongyuan.
The prophecy says that if you walk in water, you will become the emperor, and this is clearly recorded.
God's will cannot be disobeyed, and the human heart cannot be lost. If God arranges it this way, even if you want to be humble and courteous, in fact you will not be able to do it. Gaozu said: I am considering this matter.
Shen Yue also said: When Duke Ming first raised his troops between Fancheng and Mianshui, he should have considered this. Now that the emperor's foundation is ready, what else is there to consider?
In the past, King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty crusaded against the Shang Dynasty. When he first entered the court, people called him my king. King Wu did not go against people's wishes and had nothing to consider.
Since Ming Gong came to Jiankang in Kyoto, his Qi has been established. Compared with King Wu of Zhou, it is just different sooner or later.
If you do not decide on your great cause in advance, you will delay the hope of heaven and man, and if anyone raises objections, it will damage your majesty.
Moreover, people are not like gold and stone, and current events are unpredictable.
Should we just leave the title of Duke Jian'an to future generations?
If the emperor returns to the capital and the ministers each have their respective positions, then the status between the monarch and his ministers has been determined, and they will no longer have any dissent.
So if the king is a wise man and is at the top, and the ministers are loyal and fulfill their duties below, how can anyone join you in rebelling again?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
高祖然之。
约出，高祖召范云告之，云对略同约旨。
高祖曰： 智者乃尔暗同，卿明早将休文更来。
云出语约，约曰： 卿必待我。
云许诺，而约先期入，高祖命草其事。
约乃出怀中诏书并诸选置，高祖初无所改。
俄而云自外来，至殿门不得入，徘徊寿光阁外，但云 咄咄 。
约出，问曰： 何以见处？
约举手向左，云笑曰： 不乖所望。
有顷，高祖召范云谓曰： 生平与沈休文群居，不觉有异人处；今日才智纵横，可谓明识。
云曰： 公今知约，不异约今知公。
高祖曰： 我起兵于今三年矣，功臣诸将，实有其劳，然成帝业者，乃卿二人也。
梁台建，为散骑常侍、吏部尚书，兼右仆射。
translation: 
Gaozu thought it was right.
After Shen Yue resigned, Gaozu summoned Fan Yun again to ask his opinion. Fan Yun's answer was roughly the same as Shen Yue's.
Emperor Gaozu said: What a wise man sees is so coincident. I will come back tomorrow morning with Shen Xiuwen.
After Fan Yun resigned, he told Shen Yue what Gaozu had said. Shen Yue said: Sir, you must wait for me.
Fan Yun promised. The next day, Shen Yue arrived first, and Emperor Gaozu ordered him to draft a Shao letter for Khotan to ascend the throne.
Shen Yue took out the Shao Shu and the list of candidates that had been prepared in advance from his arms. Gao Zu did not make any changes.
After a while, Fan Yun came from outside. He could not enter the palace gate, so he had to wander outside Shouguang Pavilion, making strange "duh" sounds in his mouth.
When Shen Yue came out, Fan Yun asked: What was the result?
Shen Yue raised his hand to the left, indicating that the matter was settled. Fan Yun smiled and said: "It will live up to expectations."
After a while, Emperor Gaozu summoned Fan Yun and said to him: I have been with Shen Xiuwen all my life, and I didn't think there was anything different about him. Today, I see that he is very intelligent and wise.
Fan Yun said: Ming Gong understands Shen Yue only now, just like Shen Yue understands Ming Gong only today.
Emperor Gaozu said: It has been three years since I started the army. All the meritorious officers and generals have indeed made meritorious service. However, it is you two who can make me achieve my imperial career.
When the Liang Kingdom was established, Shen Yue was a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and a right-hand servant.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高祖受禅，为尚书仆射，封建昌县侯，邑千户，常侍如故。
又拜约母谢为建昌国太夫人。
奉策之日，右仆射范云等二十余人咸来致拜，朝野以为荣。
俄迁尚书左仆射，常侍如故。
寻兼领军，加侍中。
天监二年，遭母忧，舆驾亲出临吊，以约年衰，不宜致毁，遣中书舍人断客节哭。
起为镇军将军、丹阳尹，置佐史。
服阕，迁侍中、右光禄大夫，领太子詹事，扬州大中正，关尚书八条事，迁尚书令，侍中、詹事、中正如故。
累表陈让，改授尚书左仆射、领中书令、前将军，置佐史，侍中如故。
寻迁尚书令，领太子少傅。
九年，转左光禄大夫，侍中、少傅如故，给鼓吹一部。
初，约久处端揆，有志台司，论者咸谓为宜，而帝终不用，乃求外出，又不见许。
与徐勉素善，遂以书陈情于勉曰： 吾弱年孤苦，傍无期属，往者将坠于地，契阔屯邅，困于朝夕，崎岖薄宦，事非为己，望得小禄，傍此东归。
岁逾十稔，方忝襄阳县，公私情计，非所了具，以身资物，不得不任人事。
永明末，出守东阳，意在止足；而建武肇运，人世胶加，一去不返，行之未易。
及昏猜之始，王政多门，因此谋退，庶几可果，托卿布怀于徐令，想记未忘。
圣道聿兴，谬逢嘉运，往志宿心，复成乖爽。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu was enthroned by Zen, appointed Shen Yue as a minister and a servant, and was granted the feudal title of Marquis of Changxian County.
He also consecrated Shen Yue's mother, Xie, as Mrs. Jianchang.
On the day he was given the order, his right servant She Fan Yun and more than 20 people came to congratulate him. Everyone in the government and the public considered Shen Yue to be extremely honorable.
Soon he was moved to Zuopushe, Shangshu, and served as a regular attendant as before.
Soon he also led the army and served as a servant.
In the second year of Tianjian's reign, Shen Yue's mother passed away. Emperor Gaozu came to pay his respects in person. Because Shen Yue was old and it was not appropriate for his mother's death to affect his health, Emperor Gaozu sent people from Zhongshushe to stop the guests and persuade him to refrain from mourning.
He was appointed Shen Yue, general of the town army, Danyang Yin, and appointed assistant history officer.
When the period of mourning was over, he moved to Shizhong, Youguanglu, the official, and took charge of Prince Zhan Shi. Yangzhou Dazhongzheng reported to the emperor the eight articles of Shangshu, and moved to Shangshu Ling. He served as Shizhong, Zhanshi, and Zhongzheng.
After repeated submissions of resignation, he was granted the title of Shangshu Zuopushe, Lingzhongshuling, former general, appointed assistant historian, and served as a servant as before.
Soon he was moved to the post of Shangshu Ling and led the prince's young master.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was transferred to Dr. Zuo Guanglu and served as Shizhong and Shaofu. He was given the title of a drummer band.
At first, Shen Yue had been in the position of prime minister for a long time and often yearned for the position of the Three Dukes. Current commentaries also believed that he was suitable for this position. However, Emperor Gaozu never agreed. Shen Yue then requested to go out to serve, but the emperor did not allow it.
Shen Yueyu Xu Mian was always friendly, so he wrote to Xu Mian to express his feelings. He said: I was lonely when I was young, and I had no relatives around me to rely on. The past is about to become a thing of the past. I am troubled by hard government affairs morning and night. Although I only hold a humble official position with hard work, it is not for my own selfish gain. I just hope to get a meager salary and let me return to my hometown.
Ten years later, I was ashamed to be appointed as the magistrate of Xiangyang County. No matter from the public or private aspects, I was not qualified for the job. However, I had to rely on the help of others and had to enter the official career with difficulty.
In the late years of Qi Yongming, when he was appointed as the prefect of Shuyang, he was already contented. However, in the early years of Qi Jianwu, the world was turbulent and unstable. Once he left his hometown, he was never allowed to return, making things extremely difficult and difficult.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, when the emperor was in power, the state ordered many people to go out. Therefore, I planned to retire from the world. It was probably okay. At that time, I asked you to express your feelings to Xu Ling on your behalf. I think you have not forgotten it.
Nowadays, the king's way has risen and we are in a prosperous age. The ambitions and wishes of the past have become mistakes again.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今岁开元，礼年云至，悬车之请，事由恩夺。诚不能弘宣风政，光阐朝猷，尚欲讨寻文簿，时议同异。
而开年以来，病增虑切，当由生灵有限，劳役过差，总此凋竭，归之暮年，牵策行止，努力祗事。
外观傍览，尚似全人，而形骸力用，不相综摄，常须过自束持，方可黾勉。
解衣一卧，支体不复相关。
上热下冷，月增日笃，取暖则烦，加寒必利，后差不及前差，后剧必甚前剧。
百日数旬，革带常应移孔；以手握臂，率计月小半分。
以此推算，岂能支久？
若此不休，日复一日，将贻圣主不追之恨。
冒欲表闻，乞归老之秩。
translation: 
Now is the beginning of the founding of the country, and the worship of gods will be repeated in the future. However, I asked to resign and go home, but the emperor was not allowed to do so. If it is really impossible to promote morality and promote the politics of the court, then I will have to look for books and books to discuss the similarities and differences in current affairs.
Since the beginning of the year, my illness has worsened, which has made me even more worried. Perhaps because human life is limited, overwork will inevitably lead to exhaustion, and reaching the twilight years of life will inevitably restrict people's behavior, so I have to try my best to do more things.
From the outside, I still look like a complete person, but my appearance and physical strength are no longer the same. You often need to restrain yourself before you can do something reluctantly.
But after he undressed and lay down on the bed, his limbs were no longer connected to his body.
I often have fever in my upper body and coldness in my lower limbs, which gets worse day by day. I feel stuffy and have a headache when I light a fire to keep warm. Once I encounter cold, I will definitely have diarrhea. After each recovery, my body becomes worse than before, and my condition becomes more serious than the previous time.
In just a few hundred days, the body loses weight, and the holes in the belt often need to be moved, and the arms are held with hands, shrinking by about half a point every month.
Based on this calculation, how long can it be supported?
If he does not rest now, day after day, it will bring irreparable consequences to the court.
I am now going to the court to ask for the rank of resigning and returning to my old age.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
若天假其年，还是平健，才力所堪，惟思是策。
勉为言于高祖，请三司之仪，弗许，但加鼓吹而已。
约性不饮酒，少嗜欲，虽时遇隆重，而居处俭素。
立宅东田，瞩望郊阜。尝为《郊居赋》，其辞曰：惟至人之非己，固物我而兼忘。
自中智以下洎，咸得性以为场。
兽因窟而获骋，鸟先巢而后翔。
陈巷穷而业泰，婴居湫而德昌。
侨栖仁于东里，凤晦迹于西堂。
伊吾人之褊志，无经世之大方。
思依林而羽戢，愿托水而鳞藏。
固无情于轮奂，非有欲于康庄。
披东郊之寥廓，入蓬藋之荒茫。
既从竖而横构，亦风除而雨攘。
昔西汉之标季，余播迁之云始。
违利建于海昏，创惟桑于江汜。
同河济之重世，逾班生之十纪。或辞禄而反耕，或弹冠而来仕。
逮有晋之隆安，集艰虞于天步。
世交争而波流，民失时而狼顾。
translation: 
If God allows me to live a few more years, give me a healthy body, and have the intelligence and ability to do my job, then I hope to be ordered by the king to serve the country.
Xu Mian proposed to Gaozu and asked him to give him the ceremonial guard of the Three Dukes. Gaozu did not agree and only encouraged him in the ceremonial guard.
Shen Yue was not a drinker by nature and had no hobbies. Although the emperor showed great favor to him, his life was very frugal and simple.
He built a house in Dongtian with a view of the mountains in the suburbs. He once wrote "Residence in the Suburbs" to express his feelings. The words of the poem are: Only those with high moral standards can forget the trivial matters around them and themselves.
People with mediocre intelligence value life above all else.
All animals can roam the wilderness by hiding in narrow caves, and birds first live in their nests and then soar high into the sky.
Chen Wan lived in a back alley and was poor and self-sufficient but was able to prosper in his career. Yan Ying lived in a low-humidity place but had extremely high moral standards.
Gongsun Qiao lived in Saili with benevolence and righteousness, while Feng had great ambitions but disappeared in the west hall.
I do not have the ambition to be a great swan, nor do I have the broad knowledge to govern the affairs of the country.
I just want to live in seclusion in the deep forest like a bird at rest, and I would rather stay in the water like a fish hiding.
There is no interest in many worldly affairs, and there is no extravagant hope for a smooth official career.
Stay in the lonely eastern suburbs and enter the vast wilderness.
I just wish I could walk freely and think freely, and ride the wind and rain across the world.
In the last years of Xiyi's reign, my ancestors migrated.
Abandoning fame and wealth to live in Haihun, he built a residence on the bank of the Yangtze River.
Like Huanghui and Zhasai, they have a long history, and are more transcendent than Qianyi. Some people refused to receive their salary and returned to their gardens and fields, while some people cheered and wanted to have an official career.
Until the Long'an period of Sai Jin Dynasty, there were many disasters and the national destiny was difficult.
People in the world are busy working for fame and fortune, and people are displaced due to political corruption.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
延乱麻于井邑，曝如莽于衢路。
大地旷而靡容，旻天远而谁诉。
伊皇祖之弱辰，逢时艰之孔棘。
肇胥宇于硃方，掩闲庭而晏息。
值龙颜之郁起，乃凭风而矫翼。
指皇邑而南辕，驾修衢以骋力。
迁华扉而来启，张高衡而徙植。
傍逸陌之修平，面淮流之清直。
芳尘浸而悠远，世道忽其窊隆。
绵四代于兹日，盈百祀于微躬。
嗟弊庐之难保，若霣箨之从风。
或诛茅而剪棘，或既西而复东。
乍容身于白社，亦寄孥于伯通。
迹平生之耿介，实有心于独往。
思幽人而轸念，望东皋而长想。
本忘情于徇物，徒羁绁于天壤。
应屡叹于牵丝，陆兴言于世网。事滔滔而未合，志悁悁而无爽。
路将殚而弥峭，情薄暮而逾广。
抱寸心其如兰，何斯愿之浩荡。
translation: 
The chaos in the market is like tangle, and the crowd is like grass in the sun.
The earth is vast but there is no place to stay, and the sky is high-speed, who can you turn to?
When the emperor was young, the times were difficult and riddled with wounds.
He left the dangerous country and moved to a safe place, and began to live peacefully in Sezuo Xiangtu, closing his doors and living there.
At a time when the emperor was vigorously rising, he followed the trend and displayed his talents.
In accordance with the emperor's decree, he went on a southern tour and drove a carriage on a long road.
Open the gorgeous door and transplant the tall herbs.
Repair the roadside path and face the clear and straight Kuang Cheng.
The fragrance of flowers is refreshing, and there are many injustices in the world.
For four consecutive generations, they have used their meager efforts to worship hundreds of sacrifices.
I lament that my home and country are like a broken house with no guarantee of safety, like a meteorite falling, or like the layers of skin peeling off and blowing in the wind.
Or remove dead branches or cut off thorns, sometimes to the east and sometimes to the west.
He had no choice but to live in Baishe for the time being, and soon sent his wife and children to a wealthy family.
I have always been an upright person, and I really wanted to leave alone.
It reminds me of the ancient people's unforgettable thoughts. I looked at the mountains beside me and thought for a long time.
I should be forgetful of worldly things, but I am bound by ropes to the world.
Ying Shao lamented the worry of the rope many times. Lu Tong once said that the world is like a dust, with endless misfortunes, sadness and depression.
The road will become more steep as it approaches its end, and people's hearts will become broader as they reach their old age.
My heart is as fragrant as orchids, when will I get what I want, like the mighty Yangtze River flowing eastward.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
咏归欤而踯跼，眷岩阿而抵掌。
逢时君之丧德，何凶昏之孔炽。
乃战牧所未陈，实升陑所不记。
彼黎元之喋喋，将垂兽而为饵。
瞻穹昊而无归，虽非牢而被胾。
始叹丝而未睹，终逌组而后值。
寻贻爱乎上天，固非民其莫甚。
授冥符于井翼，实灵命之所禀。
当降监之初辰，值积恶之云稔。
宁方割于下垫，廓重氛于上墋。躬靡暇于朝食，常求衣于夜枕。
既牢笼于妫、夏，又驱驰乎轩、顼。
德无远而不被，明无微而不烛。
鼓玄泽于大荒，播仁风于遐俗。
辟终古而遐念，信王猷其如玉。
值衔《图》之盛世，遇兴圣之嘉期。
谢中涓于初日，叨光佐于此时。
translation: 
He walked alone and chanted before returning, lingering in the mountains and forgetting to return.
At that time, the king lost his moral character and became extremely cruel and ruthless.
Zhan Mu failed to state it, but Sheng Mo recorded it in detail.
The people's blood flowed all over the ground, just like food sent into a tiger's mouth.
Seeing the sky high and the road far away, there is no way back. Although he is not in a prison, he is killed miserably and his flesh and blood are blurred.
At first I lamented that I didn't realize it at all, but in the end I lamented that I only met him when he was an official.
Soon, God showed mercy and the people of the world were protected.
God bestows talismans on the market. This is a mission given by God.
Just when the princes were born, the foolish king accumulated many evils, and the country suffered serious disasters.
People are generally suffering from the scourge of addiction, and the vast universe is in chaos. He has to do everything by himself and has no time to eat. He often stays up all night and sleeps in his clothes.
He rescued Ma Chang and Xia Hou from the prison, and then traveled to Xuan and Xu.
The mighty virtues cover far and near, and the light shines brightly on the earth.
The holy grace moistens the desert like rain, and the benevolent wind blows far away from the border.
Everyone remembers him for creating the world, and for governing the world with benevolence and righteousness. He is as precious as jade.
It was the golden age of the benevolent monarch's reign, and it coincided with the golden period of the prosperity of the saint's grace.
I would like to express my gratitude to the monarch and his officials for assisting the Holy Dynasty at this time.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
阙投石之猛志，无飞矢之丽辞。
排阳鸟而命邑，方河山而启基。
翼储光于三善，长王职于百司。
兢鄙夫之易失，惧宠禄之难持。
伊前世之贵仕，罕纡情于丘窟。
譬丛华于楚、赵，每骄奢以相越。
筑甲馆于铜驼，并高门于北阙。
辟重扃于华阃，岂蓬蒿所能没。
敖传嗣于墝壤，何安身于穷地。
味先哲而为言，固余心之所嗜。
不慕权于城市，岂邀名于屠肆。
咏希微以考室，幸风霜之可庇。
尔乃傍穷野，抵荒郊；编霜菼，葺寒茅。
构栖噪之所集，筑町疃之所交。
因犯檐而刊树，由妨基而剪巢。
translation: 
However, there was a lack of brave warriors in the Sixth Army, and there were no literati who were good at rhetoric in the court.
The geese and magpies flew south in formation, occupying the rivers and mountains to initiate the emperor's career.
I hope that the prince will regard the three virtues as virtues and encourage all officials to be good at the emperor's duties.
Worrying that all living beings will lose their lives easily, fearing that favor and honor will not last long.
Among those high-ranking officials in previous lives, few could place their affection on the mountains and rivers of their hometown.
Prosperity and wealth reached Chu and Zhao, and arrogance, extravagance and debauchery were not far behind them.
First-class houses were built in Tongchi, and rows of high-class houses stood in Beiqi.
Open the door on the gorgeous threshold, how can the basil field bury it.
Sun Shuao warned his descendants not to live in rich lands for generations, so the He family lived in seclusion in poor mountains and harsh rivers.
After recalling the sage's last words, I feel the same way.
If you don't envy the powerful people in the city, how can you fight for fame and fortune in the butchery?
I just chanted softly in my old room, thankful that although the cabin was dilapidated, it was sheltered from the wind and frost.
For the time being, I went to the remote outskirts of the remote mountains and built a hut with thatched fences to withstand the wind, frost and cold of the countryside.
Create a clearing in the dense forest where hundreds of birds are singing, and build simple thatched huts.
Cut off the branches that obstruct the eaves and destroy the nests that interfere with the tombs.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
决渟洿之汀濙，塞井甃之沦坳。
艺芳枳于北渠，树修杨于南浦。
迁甕牖于兰室，同肩墙于华堵。
织宿楚以成门，籍外扉而为户。
既取阴于庭樾，又因篱于芳杜。
开阁室以远临，辟高轩而旁睹。渐沼沚于溜垂，周塍陌于堂下。其水草则苹萍芡芰，菁藻蒹菰；石衣海发，黄荇绿蒲。
动红荷于轻浪，覆碧叶于澄湖。
飡嘉实而却老，振羽服于清都。
其陆卉则紫鳖绿葹，天著山韭；雁齿麋舌，牛脣彘首。
布濩南池之阳，烂漫北楼之后。
或幕渚而芘地，或萦窗而窥牖。若乃园宅殊制，田圃异区。
李衡则橘林千树，石崇则杂果万株。
translation: 
Digging ditches made the stagnant turbid water crystal clear, and filling in the depressions around the wells made them as smooth as stone.
Plant fragrant citrus and tall poplar trees in Beiqu and Nanpu. Windows and doors were opened in the orchid room, and short walls were built next to the garden.
An arch was made of thorns, and thatch was laid on the ground outside the door.
The courtyard is covered with shade under the large cypress tree, and a fence is built around the fragrant pear trees. Open the door and look out from a distance, open the high ceiling and look to the side to appreciate it carefully.
The running water of the pond is led to the eaves of the hall, surrounded by fields and strange roads running across the hall.
But you can see the green apple grass, duckweed, and green algae floating on the water, the gordonium, the water chestnut, the watergrass, and the wild rice are blowing in the wind; the stone clothing, seaweed, yellow waterlily, and green cattail are in various shapes and styles, each with its own style.
Where the breeze passed, red lotus leaves stirred up waves, and green lotus leaves covered the clear lake surface.
Eating the exquisite fruits will make people rejuvenate without realizing it, shaking their feathers and cultivating in the Qing capital.
On the shore, the purple fern, green foothills, philodendron, and mountain leek are gorgeous and colorful; the wild goose teeth, slug tongues, cow lips, and scorpion heads are all dazzling.
Various wild vegetables cover the north bank of the pond, and brilliant wild flowers bloom all over the back slope of the north tower.
Some water plants cover the water like a curtain, and some ivy climbs along the walls and covers the doors and windows. This is a special garden house, full of strange fields.
Li Heng, the prefect of Wu Danyang, once planted orange tree trunks in Sizhou, and Shi Chong of the Jin Dynasty also planted thousands of mixed fruit trees in Jingu Villa.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
并豪情之所侈，非俭志之所娱。
欲令纷披蓊郁，吐绿攒硃；罗窗映户，接溜承隅。
开丹房以四照，舒翠叶而九衢。
抽红英于紫带，衔素蕊于青跗。
其林鸟则翻泊颉颃，遗音下上；楚雀多名，流嘤杂响。
或班尾而绮翼，或绿衿而绛颡。
好叶隐而枝藏，乍间关而来往。
其水禽则大鸿小雁，天狗泽虞；秋蠙寒褵，修鹢短凫。
曳参差之弱藻，戏瀺灂之轻躯；翅抨流而起沫，翼鼓浪而成珠。
其鱼则赤鲤青鲂，纤倏钜褷。
碧鳞硃尾，修颅偃额。
小则戏渚成文，大则喷流扬白。
不兴羡于江海，聊相忘于余宅。
其竹则东南独秀，九府擅奇。
translation: 
Their actions are all caused by luxury and are not something that frugal people can feel happy about.
I just want the garden to be filled with lush vegetation, with sparse green leaves and blooming flowers everywhere, with hundreds of grass growing in the windows and flowing into the corners.
The flowers are in full bloom and the branches and leaves are spreading all over the nine roads.
There are wild flowers all over the ground, some with purple stems and red flowers, some with green stems and stamens, and they are colorful.
The birds in the forest fly up and down freely, leaving their cheerful calls in the sky; different kinds of Chu sparrows chirp and make a lot of noise.
Some birds have mottled tails and colorful wings, and some birds are dressed in green and have red crowns on their heads.
They hide leisurely and contentedly among the dense woods, and suddenly come and go with each other, whining.
The birds on the water include big geese, small geese, deadbirds, and zebras. On cold days in autumn, water owl and drowning eagles swim slowly on the water, and swans and swans look for food in the water.
Light bodies play and jump among the jagged nascent algae; birds fly over the white waves, foaming into beads.
The red carp and green bream in the water shuttle back and forth, and the black and white giant shearwater swims so leisurely.
Some fish have green scales and red tails, and some fish have slender foreheads.
Small fish play on the water, forming ripples, and big fish spray water and raise layers of white waves.
They don't envy the vast rivers and seas, and forget to play beside my house.
The bamboos in the garden stand out in the southeast, which can be called unique in Kyushu.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
不迁植于淇水，岂分根于乐池。
秋蜩吟叶，寒雀噪枝。
来风南轩之下，负雪北堂之垂。
访往涂之轸迹，观先识之情伪。
每诛空而索有，皆指难以为易。
不自已而求足，并尤物以兴累。
亦昔士之所迷，而今余之所避也。
原农皇之攸始，讨厥播之云初。
肇变腥以粒食，乃人命之所储。
寻井田之往记，考阡陌于前书。
颜箪食而乐在，郑高廪而空虚。
顷四百而不足，亩五十而有余。
抚幽衷而跼念，幸取给于庭庐。
纬东菑之故耜，浸北亩之新渠。
无褰爨于晓蓐，不抱惄于朝蔬。
排外物以齐遣，独为累之在余。
安事千斯之积，不羡汶阳之墟。
translation: 
If they were not transplanted here from Qishui, they were probably transplanted from the orchestra pool.
Autumn cicadas sing among the green leaves, and cold sparrows chatter on the branches.
In the hot summer, the wind blows heavily under the Nanxuan Tower, and in the cold winter, the Beitang Tower is covered with snow.
Recall the journey we have taken in the past and observe the hypocrisy of the world before.
Whenever mysterious things are described as real things, difficult things often appear to be extremely easy.
If you don't stop yourself and seek satisfaction, you will be dragged down by worldly things.
This is what confused scholars in the past, but now it is what I want to avoid.
Discussing the beginning of the Shen Nong clan, people began to dig the ground and sow seeds.
Change the history of living solely on hunting, and start a life of eating grains. These grains are the guarantee for sustaining people's lives.
Trace past records involving the well field system and examine the history of Qianmo in ancient books from previous dynasties.
Yan Hui was able to live in poverty and live happily even though he was eating and drinking. Duke Zhuang of Zheng was empty and lonely even though he lived high in the temple.
I live in seclusion here. Although I don’t have a few hundred hectares of garden, I still have more than fifty acres of farmland.
Caressing and hiding the emotions in my heart and wandering and thinking. Fortunately, I live alone in the courtyard and have something to use.
The old abandoned canals were repaired and water from new canals was used to irrigate the fields in the north.
No longer do you have to eat in a hurry early in the morning before getting dressed, or complain about having to write to the emperor every day.
Abandon the worry of fame and gain, I don’t have to be burdened by officialdom like I used to.
Why should we no longer yearn for the ruins of Wenyang for the sake of Qianshi's salary?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
临巽维而骋目，即堆冢而流眄。
虽兹山之培塿，乃文靖之所宴。
驱四牡之低昂，响繁笳之清啭。
罗方员而绮错，穷海陆而兼荐。
奚一权之足伟，委千金其如线。
试抚臆而为言，岂斯风之可扇。
将通人之远旨，非庸情之所见。
聊迁情而徙睇，识方阜于归津。带修汀于桂渚，肇举锸于强秦。
路萦吴而款越，涂被海而通闽。
怀三鸟以长念，伊故乡之可珍。
实褰期于晚岁，非失步于方春。
何东川之沵々，独流涕于吾人。
谬参贤于昔代，亟徒游于兹所。
侍采旄而齐辔，陪龙舟而遵渚。
或列席而赋诗，或班觞而宴语。
繐帷一朝冥漠，西陵忽其葱楚。
望商飙而永叹，每乐恺于斯观。
始则钟石锵珣，终以鱼龙澜漫。
或升降有序，或浮白无算。
translation: 
Facing the southeast and looking around, climbing on the mound and looking around.
Although it is only a small hill, it was the place where Wen Jing had banquets.
Driving a carriage drawn by four horses, there was a clear and melodious sound of harriers.
Searching the sky, the earth, the sea and the land, you can see criss-crossing patterns and luxuriant grass.
Why do you become great once you have power? Spending large sums of money is like throwing away a thin thread.
I often try to speak frankly: How can we spread the corrupt practices?
The profound will of a learned man is beyond the comprehension of ordinary human concerns.
Let's change our thoughts and change the route, and look at the direction of the hillock at the ferry on our way back.
On the shore of the fragrant water, people picked up hoes to fight against the powerful Qin. I then passed through Wudi to cross the border, and then took the sea route to Minjun.
When will the three messengers arrive? How nostalgic my hometown is at this moment.
It was indeed a mistake of old age, not of my youth.
The mighty Dongchuan River flows freely, but I am the only one crying sadly.
In the past, I used to randomly visit the sages and traveled here many times on foot.
The accompanying sage rode a mighty horse and followed the left and right dragon boats racing to the shore.
Some attended the banquet, wrote poems and sang, and some drank and drank, sang and laughed.
One day these will all pass away, and the old place of Xiling will become overgrown with vegetation and lose its former prosperity.
I sigh when I see the violent surge, and I watch it from a distance with joy.
It begins with the clanging of bells and stones on the mountain, and ends with fish and dragons scattering in the water.
Think about the orderly rise and fall of the world, so why waste your time just drinking to your heart's content.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
贵则景、魏、萧、曹，亲则梁武、周旦。
莫不共霜雾而歇灭，与风云而消散。
眺孙后之墓田，寻雄霸之遗武。
实接汉之后王，信开吴之英主。
指衡岳而作镇，苞江汉而为宇。
徒征言于石椁，遂延灾于金缕。
忽芜秽而不修，同原陵之膴々。
宁知蝼蚁之与狐兔，无论樵刍之与牧竖。
睇东巘以流目，心凄怆而不怡。
盖昔储之旧苑，实博望之余基。
修林则表以桂树，列草则冠以芳芝。
风台累翼，月榭重栭。
千栌捷釭，百栱相持。
皁辕林驾，兰枻水嬉。
逾三龄而事往，忽二纪以历兹。
咸夷漫以荡涤，非古今之异时。
translation: 
Those who have always been distinguished are like Bing Ji, Prime Minister of Wei, Xiao He, and Cao Shen who assisted the government in the Western Han Dynasty, and those who are close to him are like King Xiao of Liang and Gongdan of Zhou.
Although they were famous for a while, they all disappeared together with the frost and mist, scattering like wind and clouds.
Looking at the cemetery in the distance, looking for traces of heroes' hegemony.
Sun Quan was indeed a British king in the late Han Dynasty and the founding monarch of Soochow.
He appointed Man Gen to guard one side, occupied Liao Xuan and established the capital.
It is in vain to face the stone coffin to verify the words, but the result is that disaster spreads.
In an instant, the fields were deserted and overgrown, just like the fields were covered with weeds.
Ants still know how to survive, and foxes can also mourn their own kind, not to mention the common people who have suffered disasters.
Looking at Shushan Mountain again, my heart was filled with a sense of desolation and displeasure.
The former prosperous royal palace garden is actually the remnant of Bowang Garden, the crown prince of the Western Han Dynasty.
The laurel trees stand tall and independent in the jungle, and the fragrant orchids among the many flowers and plants are fluttering in the wind.
The breeze blows softly in front of the terrace, and the moon hangs from the treetops on the waterside pavilion.
The palace's tall arches stand tall and well-proportioned, contrasting with each other.
The kings and three princes rode soap wheel carts slowly through the woods, and played in small boats on the fragrant water.
The past is like passing smoke, and hundreds of years have passed in a blink of an eye.
Nowadays, all the prosperity of the past has been washed away by history. It is not the difference between ancient and modern times.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
回余眸于艮域，觌高馆于兹岭。
虽混成以无迹，实遗训之可秉。
始飡霞而吐雾，终陵虚而倒影。
驾雌蜺之连卷，泛天江之悠永。
指咸池而一息，望瑶台而高骋，匪爽言以自姱，冀神方之可请。
惟钟岩之隐郁，表皇都而作峻，盖望秩之所宗，含风云而吐润。
其为状也，则巍峨崇袴，乔枝拂日；峣嶷岧，坠石堆星。
岑崟峍屼，或坳或平；盘坚枕卧，诡状殊形。
孤嶝横插，洞穴斜经；千丈万仞，三袭九成。
亘绕州邑，款跨郊坰；素烟晚带，白雾晨萦。
近循则一岩异色，远望则百岭俱青。
观二代之茔兆，睹摧残之余遂。
translation: 
Looking back to the northeast, we can see numerous buildings and buildings on the high mountains.
Although it seems to be integrated with the mountains and forests from a distance, we can still draw historical lessons from it.
The sky in the distance is filled with clouds and mist, and the tall mountains are reflected in the water.
Riding in a car driven by Ni Ni, I just want to float forever in the starry Tianhe Xiang.
I plan to take a rest in the salty bathing pool and then fly to the Yaotai Wonderland I missed that night. I am not just bragging about my nobility, I just hope to obtain the magical fairy recipe.
Only the majestic Zhongshan Mountain stands tall and straight in front of Kyoto. It is the place where people worship the mountains and rivers. It is full of wind and clouds and nourishes all things.
The shape of the mountain is majestic and beautiful, towering into the clouds, with tall branches brushing the sun and moon; but the mountain is rugged and steep, dotted with strange fallen rocks.
There are rugged and uneven rocks everywhere; the rocks and trees are intertwined and appear in various shapes.
The climbing trails are interspersed in between, and the mountainside is densely covered with caves; it is really a thousand mountains and valleys, overlapping one another, with various scenes.
The strange scenery lingers around the city and continues in the suburbs. In the evening, there is light smoke on the mountain, and in the morning, white mist lingers.
From a close look, the mountains are full of different colors, but from a distance, they are a patch of indigo.
Looking at the tombs of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, seeing the tomb passages that were destroyed and destroyed is really a mixture of emotions.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
成颠沛于虐竖，康敛衿于虚器；穆恭已于岩廊，简游情于玄肆；烈穷饮以致灾，安忘怀而受祟。
何宗祖之奇杰，威横天而陵地。
惟圣文之缵武，殆隆平之可至。
余世德之所君，仰遗封而掩泪。
神寝匪一，灵馆相距。
席布骍驹，堂流桂醑。
降紫皇于天阙，延二妃于湘渚。
浮兰烟于桂栋，召巫阳于南楚。扬玉桴，握椒糈。
怳临风以浩唱，折琼茅而延伫。
敬惟空路邈远，神踪遐阔。
念甚惊飙，生犹聚沫。
translation: 
King Zhou Cheng was wandering around and suffered mistreatment from villains, and King Zhou Kang died at a time when his name was empty, but they were all able to achieve great achievements and create the prosperous age of Cheng Kang; King Zhou Mu was respectful and strict to himself in the court, Zhao Shiyu was in love with Taoist mystical ideas; King Zhou Lie drank too much and caused disaster, and An Shigao made his uncle Guo Yu become a monk and was finally respected by future generations.
These ancestors are so majestic and outstanding, and their majesty dominates the world.
Only a saintly emperor can inherit the emperor's legacy and create a peaceful and prosperous era.
Today's monarchs have inherited the virtues of their ancestors. Looking up at the tombs of their predecessors not only makes people hide their faces and cry.
There is not just one tomb of the ancestors, but the halls of the gods are facing each other.
The sides of the banquet were lined with horses riding on the guests, and fragrant wine flowed everywhere in the hall.
I respectfully invite the Purple Emperor to descend from the sky and go to the bank of the Xiang River to specially invite the beautiful second concubine.
The palace built of osmanthus is surrounded by fragrant smoke, raising jade canes, holding peppercorns to offer rice, and going to Wu Yang in Nanchu to ask for the omen.
Facing the wind, I was in a trance and could only sing loudly. Holding Qiongmao to say goodbye, I stood there for a long time.
I thought about how long and far the journey to heaven is, and how vast and distant the traces of the gods are.
Worry about the furious gust of wind that will make all living beings gather and disperse like foam.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
归妙轸于一乘，启玄扉于三达。
欲息心以遣累，必违人而后豁。
或结于岩根，或开棂于木末。
室暗萝茑，檐梢松栝。
既得理于兼谢，固忘怀于饥渴。
或攀枝独远，或陵云高蹈。
因葺茨以结名，犹观空以表号。
得忘己于兹日，岂期心于来报。天假余以大德，荷兹赐之无疆。
受老夫之嘉称，班燕礼于上庠。
无希骥之秀质，乏如圭之令望。
邀昔恩于旧主，重匪服于今皇。
仰休老之盛则，请微躯于夕阳。
劳蒙司而获谢，犹奉职于春坊。
时言归于陋宇，聊暇日以翱翔。
栖余志于净国，归余心于道场。
translation: 
Only the one-vehicle method can take refuge in the Buddha's realm and open the door to Buddhism to reach the realm of Sanming.
If you want to calm down and get rid of the troubles of the world, you will inevitably confuse everyone and then you can understand the situation of sudden enlightenment.
Some people live in huts at the foot of the mountains, or they cut down trees to build huts.
Let the radish grow wildly outside the house, making it dark and dark; the pine branches on the eaves are hidden and covered with green shade.
Since you have understood the truth from leaving this world, you have already put your hunger and thirst aside.
Or you can climb a branch alone and look far into the distance, or you can soar high into the clouds and soar into the sky.
Covering the hut with maotai is like a Taoist family nourishing the sky and highlighting its name.
I am able to forget myself now. Is it just that I hope to repay the virtues that God has bestowed on me in the future? I will sincerely keep them forever.
He accepted the honorable title of old man and was given the gift of respecting the elderly at the university.
But I do lack the high moral character and jade-like qualities that the imperial court has high hopes for.
Long En, who asked the court to leave, once again held a position beyond his power.
I admire the beautiful law of recuperation in old age, and hope to have the leisure to spend my old age peacefully.
Lao Meng was allowed by the court to resign and return home, but was ordered to serve in the crown prince's palace.
At that time, I wished I could return to that simple house and use my free days to fly freely in space like a bird.
I hope I can stay in the Buddhist Kingdom and return to the Taoist place.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
兽依墀而莫骇，鱼牣沼而不纲。
旋迷涂于去辙，笃后念于徂光。
晚树开花，初英落蕊。
或异林而分丹青，乍因风而杂红紫。
紫莲夜发，红荷晓舒。轻风微动，其芳袭余。
风骚屑于园树，月笼连于池竹。
蔓长柯于檐桂，发黄华于庭菊。
冰悬埳而带坻，雪萦松而被野。
鸭屯飞而不散，雁高翔而欲下。
并时物之可怀，虽外来而非假。
实情性之所留滞，亦志之而不能舍也。
伤余情之颓暮，罹忧患其相溢。
悲异轸而同归，叹殊方而并失。
时复托情鱼鸟，归闲蓬荜。
旁阙吴娃，前无赵瑟。
以斯终老，于焉消日。
translation: 
Even if a wild beast is close to the steps, he will not panic or fear, and if the pond is full of fish and shrimps, he will not even think about fishing.
Soon after abandoning the mark of the past, I felt like a lost lamb, missing the lost time even more.
Just as an old tree blossoms, its young flowers drop their pistils.
Sometimes it is easier to distinguish the colors of Sushan Danqing because we are in different forests. The sudden gust of wind makes the green mountains all over the mountain mixed with the beauty of purple.
The purple lotus blooming at night and the red lotus standing on the water in the morning are even more fragrant and refreshing when blown by the breeze.
The desolate sound of the wind echoed among the trees in the garden, and the cold moonlight shrouded the bamboo trees in the pool.
The osmanthus branches under the eaves are lush and the autumn chrysanthemums are blooming in front of the courtyard steps.
In winter, ice hangs on Kuangxue Mountain! White snow covers the green pine fields, and the land is vast.
The wild ducks are flying around and can't be driven away, and the wild geese are soaring high in the sky and want to come down to rest.
All the seasonal scenes are really nostalgic, but these foreign objects are so real.
This is the place where my nature rests, and it is also the reason why I admire it and cannot abandon it.
I lament that my temperament has become old, but I am sad and mourning for the country's many sufferings.
The sad thing is that although they are on different paths, they end up in the same place. Fortunately, they have lost all kinds of different directions.
Now I have returned to my love for flowers, birds, insects and fish, and now I am back to living in a simple hut.
There are no beauties from Wu land beside her, and there is no stupid Qin Se in front of her.
Therefore, I spend my remaining years here, spending my whole life here.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
惟以天地之恩不报，书事之官靡述；徒重于高门之地，不载于良史之笔。
长太息其何言，羌愧心之非一。
寻加特进，光禄、侍中、少傅如故。
十二年，卒官，时年七十三。
诏赠本官，赙钱五万，布百匹，谥曰隐。
约左目重瞳子，腰有紫志，聪明过人。
好坟籍，聚书至二万卷，京师莫比。
少时孤贫，丐于宗党，得米数百斛，为宗人所侮，覆米而去。
及贵，不以为憾，用为郡部传。
尝侍宴，有妓师是齐文惠宫人。
帝问识座中客不？
曰： 惟识沈家令。
约伏座流涕，帝亦悲焉，为之罢酒。
translation: 
I am just worried that it will be difficult to repay the kindness of the gods of heaven and earth, and will not be recorded by the officials of the book; I will be valued by the court in vain, but my merits will not be recorded in the annals of history.
It's really sad, so why bother saying more? Besides, it's not just one thing that makes me feel guilty.
Soon he was granted the title of Special Advancement and was appointed Guanglu, Shizhong and Shaofu as before.
He died in office in the twelfth year of his reign at the age of seventy-three.
The emperor issued an edict as a gift to the official, and also gave 50,000 yuan in money and 100 pieces of cloth to finance the funeral ceremony. Mi was kept in hiding.
Shi Kong has two pupils in his left eye and a purple mole on his waist. He is extremely smart.
He likes reading and has a collection of 20,000 volumes of classics. No one in Kyoto can compare with him.
When he was young and poor, he once borrowed rice from his tribe to apply a hundred dendrobium trees. However, he was insulted by the tribe, so he poured the rice on the ground and turned around to leave.
Later, when he became a high official, he did not bear any grudge and still appointed this clansman as the county minister.
Once I was accompanying a banquet, there was a prostitute who was from the palace of Lord Qi Wenhui.
The birth attendant asked him if he knew any of the guests here.
He replied: I only know Shen Jialing.
After hearing this, he suddenly felt nostalgic and couldn't help but shed tears. Chen Zu also felt sad and stopped the banquet.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
约历仕三代，该悉旧章，博物洽闻，当世取则。
谢玄晖善为诗，任彦升工于文章，约兼而有之，然不能过也。
自负高才，昧于荣利，乘时藉势，颇累清谈。
及居端揆，稍弘止足。每进一官，辄殷勤请退，而终不能去，论者方之山涛。
用事十余年，未尝有所荐达，政之得失，唯唯而已。
初，高祖有憾于张稷，及稷卒，因与约言之。
约曰： 尚书左仆射出作边州刺史，已往之事，何足复论。
帝以为婚家相为，大怒曰： 卿言如此，是忠臣邪！
乃辇归内殿。
约惧，不觉高祖起，犹坐如初。
及还，未至床，而凭空顿于户下。
translation: 
Xuan Diao held official positions in the Se, Man, and Chi dynasties. He was familiar with the laws and regulations of the past and had extensive knowledge. At that time, the court often had to listen to his opinions when formulating policies.
Xie Xuanhui is good at poetry, Ren Yansheng is good at writing, and Shen Yue is good at both, but neither can surpass them.
He was arrogant about his talent, obsessed with fame and wealth, relied on his luck to pursue power, and was ridiculed by the Qing Dynasty.
After he became prime minister, he was somewhat contented. Every time he entered an official position, he always begged for concessions, but in the end he could not refuse. Public opinion at the time compared him to Shan Tao during the Wei and Jin Dynasties.
After serving as an official in the Liang Dynasty for more than ten years, he did not recommend any talents to the court, and he did not want to comment much on the gains and losses of the government. He was just obedient.
At first, Emperor Gaozu had an old grudge against Zhang Ji. After Zhang Ji's death, he still talked about it with Shen Yue.
Shen Yue said: "The appointment of Shangshu Zuopushe as governor of Bianzhou can be regarded as punishment. There is no need to mention things that have already passed."
Emperor Gaozu thought that Shen Yue was protecting his family, and said angrily: "You say such things, are you still considered a loyal minister?"
So he took the chariot back to the inner palace.
Yi Bao was so frightened that he didn't realize that Zhidan had already gotten up and returned to the palace, but he still sat there blankly.
After returning home, he was still uneasy and sat down before reaching the bedside. As a result, he fell to the ground while sitting empty and fell ill.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
因病，梦齐和帝以剑断其舌。
召巫视之，巫言如梦。
乃呼道士奏赤章于天，称禅代之事，不由己出。
高祖遣上省医徐奘视约疾，还具以状闻。
先此，约尝侍宴，值豫州献栗，径寸半，帝奇之，问曰： 栗事多少？
与约各疏所忆，少帝三事。
出谓人曰： 此公护前，不让即羞死。
帝以其言不逊，欲抵其罪，徐勉固谏乃止。
及闻赤章事，大怒，中使谴责者数焉，约惧遂卒。
有司谥曰文，帝曰： 怀情不尽曰隐。
故改为隐云。
所著《晋书》百一十卷，《宋书》百卷，《齐纪》二十卷，《高祖纪》十四卷，《迩言》十卷，《谥例》十卷，《宋文章志》三十卷，文集一百卷：皆行于世。
又撰《四声谱》，以为在昔词人，累千载而不寤，而独得胸衿，穷其妙旨，自谓入神之作，高祖雅不好焉。
translation: 
When he was ill, he dreamed that Emperor Qi He cut off his tongue with a sharp sword.
The results of the wizard's inspection were consistent with what he saw in his dream.
So he asked the Taoist priest to write a red seal to the heaven, saying that the Zen Dynasty was not his own idea.
Emperor Gaozu sent Emperor Xu Zang to see Shen Yue, and when he came back, he truthfully reported his illness to Emperor Gaozu.
Before that, Shen Guo had served at a banquet, and it happened that Yuzhou presented a tribute of chestnuts to the emperor, with a diameter of one and a half inches. Gaozu thought it was very strange, and Shen Yue asked: "How many allusions are there about chestnuts in the history books?"
He and Shen Yue wrote down the things they remembered in separate pieces. As a result, Shen Yue had three things less than Gaozu.
After the selection came out, he said to people: This man is going back to protect his past mistakes. If he doesn't let him do three things, he will die of shame.
Emperor Gaozu thought that he had spoken rudely and was disrespectful to the emperor, so he wanted to punish him, but he gave up after Xu Mian tried his best to persuade him.
After hearing about Chi Zhang this time, Emperor Gaozu was furious and sent several envoys to condemn him. Shen Yue died of fear.
A minister gave him Mi Risai, and Zhidan said: "If my feelings are not exhausted, I will hide."
Therefore, silence is turned into trouble.
He wrote 110 volumes of "Book of Jin", 100 volumes of "Song Book", 20 volumes of "Qi Ji", 14 volumes of "Gaozu Ji", 10 volumes of "Yiyan", 10 volumes of "Mi Li", 30 volumes of "Song Wenwenzhi" and 100 volumes of collected works, all of which have been circulated in the world.
He also wrote "Four Tone Spectrum". He thought that the poets in the past had not understood things for thousands of years, but he was able to get to the bottom of his mind and explore its mysteries. He claimed to have reached a magical realm, but Gaozu didn't like it.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
帝问周舍曰： 何谓四声？
舍曰： 天子圣哲 是也，然帝竟不遵用。
子旋，及约时已历中书侍郎，永嘉太守，司徒从事中郎，司徒右长史。
免约丧，为太子仆，复以母忧去官，而蔬食辟谷。
服除，犹绝粳粱。
为给事黄门侍郎、中抚军长史。
出为招远将军、南康内史，在部以清治称。
卒官，谥曰恭侯。
子实嗣。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：昔木德将谢，昏嗣流虐，惵惵黔黎，命悬晷漏。
高祖义拯横溃，志宁区夏，谋谟帷幄，实寄良、平。
至于范云、沈约，参预缔构，赞成帝业；加云以机警明赡，济务益时，约高才博洽，名亚迁、董，俱属兴运，盖一代之英伟焉。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu once asked Zhou She: What are the four tones?
Zhou She replied: The emperor's sage, the four words sent are the four tones.
However, Emperor Gaozu still did not follow and use Shen Yue's "Four Tone Scores". His sons, Shen Xuan and Shen Yue, had successively served as ministers of Zhongshu, prefect of Yongtai, Situ Zhonglang and Situ Youzhangshi.
After Ju Shen's mourning period expired, he served as a servant of the prince. Later, he resigned due to the death of his mother. During the period of mourning, he only ate vegetables and not grains.
After the mourning period expires, he still does not eat refined japonica rice.
He served as the minister of Huangmen and the commander of Zhongfu Army.
He served as general of Zhaoyuan and internal history of Nankang. During his tenure, he was known for his clean governance.
He died in his official position and was named Gonghou.
His son Shen Sai succeeded him.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen Libu, said: At that time, the Qi Dynasty was almost exhausted, and after Donghun Hou came to the throne, he was brutal and cruel. The people of Li were in a state of panic, always worried that they would die in an instant.
At this time, Gao Dan mobilized the rebel army to save the country in times of crisis, determined to stabilize China, make contributions, strategize, and pin his hopes on people like Zhang Huang and Su Nu.
Later, I met Fan Yun and Shen Bao. They participated in the strategy and assisted Gaozu in completing his imperial career. In addition, Fan Zhong was alert and intelligent, and could assist the court government very well. Shen Yue was talented and knowledgeable, and his reputation was second only to Sima Qian and Dong Hu.


