Chunk 0: 
original: 
傅玄，字休奕，北地泥阳人也。
祖燮，汉汉阳太守。
父干，魏扶风太守。
玄少孤贫，博学善属文，解钟律。
性刚劲亮直，不能容人之短。
郡上计吏再举孝廉，太尉辟，皆不就。
州举秀才，除郎中，与东海缪施俱以时誉选入著作，撰集魏书。
后参安东、卫军军事，转温令，再迁弘农太守，领典农校尉。
所居称职，数上书陈便宜，多所匡正。
五等建，封鹑觚男。
武帝为晋王，以玄为散骑常侍。
及受禅，进爵为子，加附马都尉。
帝初即位，广纳直言，开不讳之路，玄及散骑常侍皇甫陶共掌谏职。
translation: 
Fu Xuan, whose courtesy name was Xiu Yi, was from Niyang in the north.
His grandfather Fu Xie was the prefect of Hanyang in the Han Dynasty.
His father, Fu Qian, was the governor of Fufeng in the Wei state.
Fu Xuan was lonely and poor when he was young. He was erudite, good at writing articles, and knew the rhythm of music.
He has a strong and upright character and cannot tolerate the shortcomings of others.
He was appointed as a planner in the county, and he was recommended as Xiaolian twice. He was also recruited by the Taiwei, but he did not take up the post.
He took the state examination and passed the scholar examination, and was appointed as a doctor. Due to their reputation at that time, he and Donghai Mushi were selected as writers and compiled Wei books.
Later, he learned about the military affairs of Anton and Weijun. He was transferred to the county magistrate of Wen County and promoted to the prefect of Hongnong. In charge of the post of captain of Diannong School.
He was a competent official, wrote many petitions and made many corrections.
After the establishment of the fifth-grade system, he was granted the title of Baron Quail.
When Emperor Wu Sima Yan was the king of Jin Dynasty, he appointed him as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne, he was promoted to viscount and promoted to Prince Consort and Commander-in-Chief.
As soon as Emperor Wu came to the throne, he widely adopted outspoken speech and opened up a way of speaking without taboos. Fu Xuan and Huangfu Tao, the regular servant of Sanqi, jointly took charge of the post of admonishment officer.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
玄上疏曰： 臣闻先王之临天下也，明其大教，长其义节。道化隆于上，清议行于下，上下相奉，人怀义心。
亡秦荡灭先王之制，以法术相御，而义心亡矣。
近者魏武好法术，而天下贵刑名；魏文慕通达，而天下贱守节。
其后纲维不摄，而虚无放诞之论盈于朝野，使天下无复清议，而亡秦之病复发于今。
陛下圣德，龙兴受禅，弘尧、舜之化，开正直之路，体夏禹之至俭，综殷周之典文，臣咏叹而已，将又奚言！
惟未举清远有礼之臣，以敦风节；未退虚鄙，以惩不恪，臣是以犹敢有言。
诏报曰： 举清远有礼之臣者，此尤今之要也。
乃使玄草诏进之。
玄复上疏曰：
臣闻舜举五臣，无为而化，用人得其要也。
translation: 
Fu Xuan Shangshu said: I have heard that the former king came to the world, proclaimed the great teachings, and increased etiquette, righteousness, and moral integrity. The teachings flourished in the court, public opinions became popular below, and everyone followed them together, and everyone had a heart of benevolence and righteousness.
The perished Qin Dynasty destroyed the laws of the ancestors and ruled with harsh laws, and the heart of benevolence and righteousness declined.
In modern times, Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty Cao Cao liked magic, so the world valued punishments; Emperor Wen of the Wei Dynasty Cao Pi admired those who knew the truth, so the world despised keeping integrity.
From then on, the imperial court was unable to govern, so empty, useless, and uninhibited discussions flooded the government and the public, so that there was no longer any fair discussion in the world, and the ills of the Qin Dynasty's demise recurred today.
His Majesty's morality is supreme, the dynasty has risen, he has inherited the throne, he has carried forward the teachings of Yao and Shun, he has opened up the path of righteous advice, he has experienced the frugality of Xia and Yu, and after considering the laws and essays of the Shang and Zhou dynasties, I can only sigh, what else am I going to say!
It's just that I didn't recommend courteous ministers with lofty ideals to uphold moral integrity; I didn't remove hypocritical and despicable villains to punish disrespectful ministers, so I still dare to say something.
The edict replied: Recommending ministers with high aspirations and etiquette is an especially important thing today.
So Fu Xuan was asked to draft an edict and present it to him.
Fu Xuan wrote again:
I heard that Shun recommended five ministers and governed without doing anything. This was because he had found the essentials in employing people.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
天下群司猥多，不可不审得其人也。
不得其人，一日则损不赀，况积日乎！
典谟曰 无旷庶官 ，言职之不可久废也。
诸有疾病满百日不差，宜令去职，优其礼秩而宠存之，既差而后更用。
臣不废职于朝，国无旷官之累，此王政之急也。
臣闻先王分士农工商以经国制事，各一其业而殊其务。
自士已上子弟，为之立太学以教之，选明师以训之，各随其才优劣而授用之。
农以丰其食，工以足其器，商贾以通其货。
故虽天下之大，兆庶之众，无有一人游手。
分数之法，周备如此。
汉、魏不定其分，百官子弟不修经艺而务交游，未知莅事而坐享天禄；农工之业多废，或逐淫利而离其事；徒系名于太学，然不闻先王之风。
translation: 
Because there are so many official positions in the world, it is necessary to examine and find the right person.
If you don't find the right person, you will waste a lot of money in one day, not to mention the accumulated time?
"Shangshu Gao Tao Mo" said: Do not leave hundreds of officials vacant, which means that the positions cannot be abandoned for a long time.
Those who have been ill for a hundred days and have not recovered should be allowed to leave their jobs and be given generous courtesy and salary until they recover.
The ministers will not give up their positions in the government, and the country will not be burdened by idle officials. This is the top priority of the king's government.
I heard that the previous emperors managed state affairs according to the division of labor between scholars, farmers, industry and commerce. Each had its own industry and different affairs.
For the children of scholars and above, the Imperial Academy was established for them to educate them, sage teachers were selected to teach them, and they were appointed according to their respective talents.
Agriculture must ensure a bumper harvest, industry must provide sufficient equipment, and merchants must ensure the circulation of goods.
Therefore, the world is huge and there are many people, and no one is empty-handed.
The division of labor is so thorough and complete.
However, there was no fixed division of labor in the Han Dynasty and the Wei Dynasty. The children of hundreds of officials did not learn the Five Classics and Six Arts but engaged in socializing and enjoyed the imperial salary before they knew how to do things. Agricultural and industrial industries were mostly abandoned, and some left their business in pursuit of huge profits. They were in the Imperial Academy in vain, but they did not hear the teachings of the previous kings.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今圣明之政资始，而汉、魏之失未改，散官众而学校未设，游手多而亲农者少，工器不尽其宜。
臣以为亟定其制，通计天下若干人为士，足以副在官之吏；若干人为农，三年足有一年之储；若干人为工，足其器用；若干人为商贾，足以通货而已。
尊儒尚学，贵农贱商，此皆事业之要务也。
前皇甫陶上事，欲令赐拜散官皆课使亲耕，天下享足食之利。
禹、稷躬稼，祚流后世，是以《明堂》、《月令》著帝藉之制。
伊尹古之名臣，耕于有莘；晏婴齐之大夫，避庄公之难，亦耕于海滨。
昔者圣帝明王，贤佐俊士，皆尝从事于农矣。
王人赐官，冗散无事者，不督使学，则当使耕，无缘放之使坐食百姓也。
今文武之官既众，而拜赐不在职者又多，加以服役为兵，不得耕稼，当农者之半，南面食禄者参倍于前。
使冗散之官农，而收其租税，家得其实，而天下之谷可以无乏矣。
夫家足食，为子则孝，为父则慈，为兄则友，为弟则悌。
天下足食，则仁义之教可不令而行也。
为政之要，计人而置官，分人而授事，士农工商之分不可斯须废也。
translation: 
Now that Shengming's politics has begun, the mistakes of the Han and Wei dynasties have not changed. There are many informal officials but no schools. There are many people who are not doing their jobs but few people who are engaged in agriculture. Industrial utensils are not suitable for use.
I think it is urgent to formulate a system to uniformly plan how many people in the world will be scholars, so that they can serve as various officials; how many people will be farmers, so that they can have a year's worth of grain reserves after working for three years; how many people will be workers, so that all kinds of utensils are sufficient; how many people will be engaged in business, so that they can circulate goods.
Respecting Confucianism and Taoism and advocating academics, agriculture as the most noble, and commerce as the lowest, these are all important matters in national affairs.
Previously, Huangfu Tao made a memorial requesting that the appointment of casual officials should be reviewed and let them personally cultivate the land so that the world could enjoy the benefits of sufficient food.
Xia Yu Houji personally engaged in farming, and his blessings were passed down to later generations. Therefore, the "Mingtang" and "Yueling" chapters in the "Book of Rites" record the system of the emperor's land registration.
Yi Yin was a famous official in ancient times and farmed in Youxin; Yan Ying was a senior official in Qi State who also went to the seaside to farm in order to avoid the disaster of Duke Zhuang of Qi.
In the past, sage emperors and capable men were all engaged in agricultural production.
The emperor conferred official positions, and if those officials who were superfluous, idle and had nothing to do were urged to study, they should be allowed to farm. There was no reason to let them sit back and eat the people's food.
Nowadays, there are many civil and military officials, but there are still more who do not serve in their posts. In addition, they serve as soldiers and cannot grow crops, and they are half the number of farmers. In this way, the number of people sitting facing south and receiving salary is three times that of the previous dynasty.
Let the idle and redundant officials work on the farm and collect their taxes, and private individuals will also gain substantial benefits, and the world will not be short of food.
Every family has enough food. A son should be filial, a father should be loving, an elder brother should be friendly, and a younger brother should be filial.
If the world has enough food and clothing, then the teachings of benevolence and righteousness will be implemented without orders.
The key to government is to set up officials according to the total number of people, divide labor until people are assigned their duties, and the division of labor between scholars, farmers, industry and commerce cannot be abandoned at all times.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
若未能精其防制，计天下文武之官足为副贰者使学，其余皆归之于农。
若百工商贾有长者，亦皆归之于农。
务农若此，何有不赡乎！
《虞书》曰： 三载考绩，三考黜陟幽明。
是为九年之后乃有迁叙也。
故居官久，则念立慎终之化，居不见久，则竞为一切之政。
六年之限，日月浅近，不周黜陟。
陶之所上，义合古制。
夫儒学者，王教之首也。
尊其道，贵其业，重其选，犹恐化之不崇；忽而不以为急，臣惧日有陵迟而不觉也。仲尼有言： 人能弘道，非道弘人。
然则尊其道者，非惟尊其书而已，尊其人之谓也。
贵其业者，不妄教非其人也。重其选者，不妄用非其人也。
若此，而学校之纲举矣。
书奏，帝下诏曰： 二常侍恳恳于所论，可谓乃心欲佐益时事者也。
translation: 
如果不能精确制定相应的制度，就应考核天下的文武官员，能为长官辅佐的人让他们学习，其余的都让他们务农。
As for the surplus people among the hundreds of industrial and merchant merchants, they were also allowed to engage in agriculture.
What's not enough about farming like this?
"Shang Shu Shun Dian" says: The political performance will be evaluated once every three years, and those who are inferior and promoted to outstanding people will be dismissed after three evaluations.
It can be seen that the promotion order is only after nine years.
Therefore, if you stay in an official position for a long time, you will think about establishing a good education; if you stay in an official position for a short period of time, you will strive to do something with political achievements.
The six-year period is not long enough, and neither demotion nor promotion is thorough enough.
What Huangfu Tao reported was in line with ancient etiquette.
Confucian scholarship was the first priority of Wang Zheng.
I follow Confucianism, value Confucianism, and focus on the selection of Confucian scholars, but I am still worried that education cannot be respected; now I don’t regard Confucianism as a top priority. I am afraid that it is declining day by day without noticing it. Confucius once said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.
In this way, those who respect Confucianism should not only respect Confucian books, but also respect Confucian people.
The so-called emphasis on Confucianism means not indiscriminately educating those who do not follow Confucianism; the so-called emphasis on the selection of Confucian scholars means not indiscriminately appointing people who do not follow Confucianism.
In this way, the school education syllabus is established.
After the book was written, the emperor issued an edict saying: The two ministers' comments are very sincere. It can be said that you want to benefit current affairs.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
而主者率以常制裁之，岂得不使发愤耶！
二常侍所论，或举其大较而未备其条目，亦可便令作之，然后主者八坐广共研精。
凡关言于人主，人臣之所至难。
而人主若不能虚心听纳，自古忠臣直士之所慷慨，至使杜口结舌。
每念于此，未尝不叹息也。
故前诏敢有直言，勿有所距，庶几得以发懞补过，获保高位。
苟言有偏善，情在忠益，虽文辞有谬误，言语有失得，皆当旷然恕之。
古人犹不拒诽谤，况皆善意在可采录乎！
近者孔晁、綦毋皆案以轻慢之罪，所以皆原，欲使四海知区区之朝无讳言之忌也。
俄迁侍中。
初，玄进皇甫陶，及入而抵，玄以事与陶争，言喧哗，为有司所奏，二人竟坐免官。
泰始四年，以为御史中丞。
时颇有水旱之灾，玄复上疏曰：
translation: 
But those in charge mostly make decisions based on standing rules, so how can we not let you express your anger?
Some of the discussions made by the two regular servants listed out the outline but the items were not detailed. They could also let them tailor it, and then let eight officials including Wu Cao Shangshu, Er Pu She and Zong Ling jointly study it for meticulousness.
Generally speaking, any remarks related to the ruler are the most difficult for ministers to deal with.
And if the monarch cannot adopt it humbly, it will only make the loyal ministers and those who have remonstrated since ancient times be so moved that they become silent.
Every time I think about this, I sigh.
Therefore, the last edict required the ministers to speak out boldly and not to stop, which could almost inspire Hun Mo to correct his mistakes and protect the throne forever.
If there is some merit in what you say and your mood is in line with loyalty, even if there are mistakes in your words and there are gains and losses in your words, you should be forgiven and forgiven.
The ancients did not reject others' behind-the-scenes comments and criticisms, let alone their opinions which are worthy of adoption.
Recently, both Kong and Qi Wulu were convicted of contempt. The reason why I have forgiven them is to let the world know that I, the Jin Dynasty, do not need to taboo speech.
Soon Fu Xuan was promoted to the rank of Attendant.
At first, Fu Xuan recommended Huangfu Tao, but after entering the court, the two had conflicts. Fu Xuan had a dispute with Huangfu Tao over political affairs.
In the fourth year of Taishi's reign, he was appointed as Yushi Zhongcheng.
At that time, there were many floods and droughts. Fu Xuan wrote in another book:


Chunk 6: 
original: 
臣闻圣帝明王受命，天时未必无灾，是以尧有九年之水，汤有七年之旱，惟能济之以人事耳。
故洪水滔天而免沈溺，野无生草而不困匮。
伏惟陛下圣德钦明，时小水旱，人未大饥，下祗畏之诏，求极意之言，同禹、汤之罪己，侔周文之夕惕。
臣伏欢喜，上便宜五事：
其一曰，耕夫务多种而耕不熟，徒丧功力而无收。
又旧兵持官牛者，官得六分，士得四分；自持私牛者，与官中分，施行来久，众心安之。
今一朝减持官牛者，官得八分，士得二分；持私牛及无牛者，官得七分，士得三分，人失其所，必不欢乐。
臣愚以为宜佃兵持官牛者与四分，持私牛与官中分，则天下兵作欢然悦乐，爱惜成谷，无有损弃之忧。
translation: 
I heard that Emperor Shengming inherited the destiny of heaven, and the weather was not necessarily without disasters. Therefore, Yao had floods for nine years, and Shang Tang had droughts for seven years. They could only use people to relieve them.
Therefore, the floods can be overwhelming and the sky will not be submerged, and the ground will not grow grass but will not be sleepy.
I believe that your majesty has a sage moral character. At present, there are minor floods and droughts, and the people are not suffering from major famines. You issue edicts to respect the destiny of heaven and seek opinions that are in line with the will of heaven. You are as strict with yourself as Xia Yu and Shang Tang. You are as cautious as King Wen of Zhou and do not dare to neglect.
I'm so happy that Shang Shu stated the five things that should be done:
The first thing is: Nowadays, people cultivating are trying to grow a variety of crops, but they cannot mature due to drought, thus wasting their labor and yielding no harvest.
In addition, in the past, when soldiers used the government's cattle, the government would get six-tenths of the harvest, and soldiers would get four-tenths of the harvest. If they used private cattle, they would share it equally with the government. This has been implemented for a long time, and everyone has peace of mind.
Now once the share ratio of government cattle is reduced, the government will get eight-tenths, and the soldiers will get two-tenths. If private cattle are used or there are no cattle, the government will get seven-tenths, and the soldiers will get three-tenths. Everyone will lose what they have gained, and they will definitely be unhappy.
I thought that when a hired soldier would give him four-tenths of the government's cattle and use private cattle to share it equally with the government, then the soldiers all over the world would be happy and cherish the food, and there would be no worries about ruining agriculture and abandoning industry.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
其二曰，以二千石虽奉务农之诏，犹不勤心以尽地利。
昔汉氏以垦田不实，征杀二千石以十数。
臣愚以为宜申汉氏旧典，以警戒天下郡县，皆以死刑督之。
其三曰，以魏初未留意于水事，先帝统百揆，分河堤为四部，并本凡五谒者，以水功至大，与农事并兴，非一人所周故也。
今谒者一人之力，行天下诸水，无时得遍。
伏见河堤谒者车谊不知水势，转为他职，更选知水者代之。
可分为五部，使各精其方宜。
其四曰，古以步百为亩，今以二百四十步为一亩，所觉过倍。
近魏初课田，不务多其顷亩，但务修其功力，故白田收至十余斛，水田收数十斛。
自顷以来，日增田顷亩之课，而田兵益甚，功不能修理，至亩数斛已还，或不足以偿种。
非与曩时异天地，横遇灾害也，其病正在于务多顷亩而功不修耳。
窃见河堤谒者石恢甚精练水事及田事，知其利害，乞中书召恢，委曲问其得失，必有所补益。
translation: 
The second thing is that although officials with a salary of two thousand dan obeyed the edict to devote themselves to agriculture, they still did not do their duty to benefit from the land.
In the past, the Han Dynasty was not pragmatic in cultivating farmland. After verification, officials with a salary of two thousand dan were killed, and the calculation was calculated by ten.
I think we should reiterate the old laws of the Han Dynasty to warn the counties and counties all over the world and urge them to use the death penalty.
The third thing is: since the Wei Dynasty, no attention has been paid to the construction of water conservancy. The late emperor commanded hundreds of officials and divided those in charge of the river embankments into four divisions. Together with the headquarters, there were five river embankment ministers. Because water conservancy was of great importance, it was not something that one person could consider comprehensively when it was established together with farming.
Now there is only one person in charge of the river bank, who manages water conservancy all over the world and cannot take everything into consideration.
I think Che Yi, the embankment minister, also doesn’t understand the water conservancy situation. He can be transferred to another position and someone with knowledge of water conservancy can be chosen to replace him.
It can be divided into five divisions so that each of them is proficient in the respective ministries.
The fourth thing is: in ancient times, one acre was divided into one hundred square steps, but now one acre is divided into two hundred and forty square steps. The difference is more than double.
In modern times, the Wei Dynasty began to collect land tax, not to collect more acres of land, but to rest and recuperate labor, so white fields received more than ten husks of dendrobium, and paddy fields received dozens of husks of dendrobium.
Recently, the tax on acres of land has been increasing day by day, and the soldiers who farm the fields have become even more powerful. The labor force cannot be rested, and even more than one acre is used, and some are not enough to repay the cost.
It is not that the world is different from the previous one and suffers from disasters. Its shortcomings are precisely due to the lack of rest in labor in order to increase the number of acres.
I privately saw that Shi Hui, the embankment visitor, was very good at water conservancy and farmland, and knew the pros and cons. I asked Zhongshu to summon Shi Hui to carefully inquire about the gains and losses of agricultural water conservancy, which would definitely help.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
其五曰，臣以为胡夷兽心，不与华同，鲜卑最甚。
本邓艾苟欲取一时之利，不虑后患，使鲜卑数万散居人间，此必为害之势也。
秦州刺史胡烈素有恩信于西方，今烈往，诸胡虽已无恶，必且消弭，然兽心难保，不必其可久安也。
若后有动衅，烈计能制之。
惟恐胡虏适困于讨击，便能东入安定，西赴武威，外名为降，可动复动。
此二郡非烈所制，则恶胡东西有窟穴浮游之地，故复为患，无以禁之也。
宜更置一郡于高平川，因安定西州都尉募乐徙民，重其复除以充之，以通北道，渐以实边。
详议此二郡及新置郡，皆使并属秦州，令烈得专御边之宜。
translation: 
The fifth thing is: I think the Hu Yi tribe has a human face and a beast heart. They are not the same as the Chinese. The Xianbei tribe is the most powerful.
At the beginning, Deng Ai only wanted to obtain temporary benefits and did not consider the future troubles. He caused tens of thousands of Xianbei people to live scattered among the people, which would inevitably lead to disaster.
Hu Lie, the governor of Qinzhou, has always been kind to the west. Now that Hu Lie has gone, although all kinds of barbarians have stopped causing trouble and will be eliminated, their beastly hearts cannot be kept alive, and long-term peace and stability may not be possible.
If there are signs of unrest in the future, Hu Lie's strategy can subdue them.
I am just worried that the Hulu will flee eastward to Anding and westward to Wuwei just after being trapped by the conquest. They will appear to surrender, but they will still riot when they can.
These two counties are not under the control of Hu Lie, and the vicious Hu people have caves and caves to buffer and roam, so there is no way to prevent future disasters.
Another county should be established in Gaopingchuan, so that the captain of Anxizhou can recruit people who are willing to migrate, supplement them with a large number of people exempted from corvee, open up the northbound road, and gradually enrich the border.
It is best to consider that these two counties and the established counties belong to Qinzhou, so that Hu Lie can take charge of border affairs.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
诏曰： 得所陈便宜，言农事得失及水官兴废，又安边御胡政事宽猛之宜，申省周备，一二具之，此诚为国大本，当今急务也。
如所论皆善，深知乃心，广思诸宜，动静以闻也。
五年，迁太仆。
时比年不登，羌胡扰边，诏公卿会议。
玄应对所问，陈事切直，虽不尽施行，而常见优容。
转司隶校尉。
献皇后崩于弘训宫，设丧位。
旧制，司隶于端门外坐，在诸卿上，绝席。
其入殿，按本品秩在诸卿下，以次坐，不绝席。
而谒者以弘训宫为殿内，制玄位在卿下。
玄恚怒，厉声色而责谒者。
谒者妄称尚书所处，玄对百僚而骂尚书以下。
御史中丞庾纯奏玄不敬，玄又自表不以实，坐免官。
translation: 
The edict said: "To obtain the things that should be done as stated in the report, including the gains and losses of farming, the rise and fall of water conservancy officials, as well as the security of the border to resist the barbarians and the severity of the political affairs, are described in detail and complete. This is indeed a fundamental matter of governing the country and an urgent task today."
The discussion is correct. Knowing that you are loyal to the royal family, you should think more broadly about what should be done and tell me the situation.
In the fifth year of Taishi's reign, he was appointed as a servant.
At that time, the grain harvest had not been harvested for several years, and the Western Qiang and Hu people were harassing the border. The emperor issued an edict for the ministers to discuss.
Fu Xuan responded to the emperor's questions and stated his reasons sincerely and straightforwardly. Although he did not implement everything, he was often tolerated.
Transferred to the post of Sili Xiaowei.
Queen Xian passed away in Hongxun Palace, and a place of mourning was set up.
According to the old system, the minister should sit outside Duanmen, sitting alone above the other ministers.
Entering the palace, according to the official rank of this product, under the ministers, sit in order and sit at the same table with others.
The visitors believed that Hongxun Palace was within the palace, and placed Fu Xuan's position under the position of Qing.
Fu Xuan was furious and shouted at the visitors.
The visitor pretended that it was arranged by the Minister, and Fu Xuan cursed the Minister in front of all the officials and left the table.
Yu Chun, the imperial censor, reported to Fu Xuan how disrespectful he was, but Fu Xuan's report was inconsistent with the facts, so he was dismissed from office.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
然玄天性峻急，不能有所容；每有奏劾，或值日暮，捧白简，整簪带，竦踊不寐，坐而待旦。
于是贵游慑伏，台阁生风。
寻卒于家，时年六十二，谥曰刚。
玄少时避难于河内，专心诵学，后虽显贵，而著述不废。
撰论经国九流及三史故事，评断得失，各为区例，名为《傅子》，为内、外、中篇，凡有四部、六录，合百四十首，数十万言，并文集百余卷行于世。
玄初作内篇成，子咸以示司空王沈。
沈与玄书曰： 省足下所著书，言富理济，经纶政体，存重儒教，足以塞杨、墨之流遁，齐孙、孟于往代。
每开卷，未尝不叹息也。 不见贾生，自以过之，乃今不及 ，信矣！
其后追封清泉侯。子咸嗣。
咸字长虞，刚简有大节。
风格峻整，识性明悟，疾恶如仇，推贤乐善，常慕季文子、仲山甫之志。
好属文论，虽绮丽不足，而言成规鉴。
颍川庾纯常叹曰： 长虞之文近乎诗人之作矣！
咸宁初，袭父爵，拜太子洗马，累迁尚书右丞。出为冀州刺史，继母杜氏不肯随咸之官，自表解职。
三旬之间，迁司徒左长史。
时帝留心政事，诏访朝臣政之损益。
咸上言曰： 陛下处至尊之位，而修布衣之事，亲览万机，劳心日昃。
在昔帝王，躬自菲薄，以利天下，未有逾陛下也。
translation: 
However, Fu Xuan was by nature severe and impatient, and could not be tolerant when things happened. Every time there was a memorial to report, or when it was late, he would hold the memorial in his hand, straighten his crown and belt, and restlessly not sleep, but sit and wait for dawn.
As a result, those princes and nobles without official positions were afraid to surrender, and the minister suddenly gained prestige.
Soon he died at home at the age of sixty-two. His posthumous title was Gang.
Fu Xuan took refuge in Hanoi when he was young and concentrated on reading. Although he became rich and powerful, his writings were not neglected.
He wrote a book that commented on the three religions and nine streams of governing the country and the three historical events, and judged the pros and cons, each with regulations. The book is called "Fu Zi", which is divided into three chapters: internal, external and middle. It has four parts and six records, with a total of 140 poems and hundreds of thousands of words. It has been popular in the world together with more than 100 volumes of collected works.
Fu Xuan originally wrote the internal chapter, and his son Fu Xian gave it to Sikong Wang Shen to read.
Wang Chen wrote to Fu Xuan: I saw your book, which contains grand words and well-equipped principles, plans for governing the country, and attaches great importance to Confucian education and morality. It is enough to block the debauchery of Yang Zhu and Mo Zhai's teachings, and can be compared with Xun Kuang and Meng Ke in ancient times.
Every time I open the book, I sigh with emotion. Without seeing Jia Yi, I thought I was better than him, but now I know I can't compare to him.
That’s so true! Later, he was granted the title of Marquis of Qingquan, and his son Fu Xian inherited the title.
Fu Xian's character is "Yu", and he has a strong sense of uprightness.
He has a strict demeanor and conduct, is well-informed, intelligent and wise, hates evil as much as his enemies, recommends talents, is willing to do good, and often looks up to the ambitions of Ji Wenzi and Zhongshanfu.
I like to write literary essays. Although my literary talent is not brilliant, my remarks can serve as a warning.
Yu Chun of Yingchuan often lamented: Fu Changyu's articles are close to the poet's creation.
In the early years of Xianning, he inherited his father's title and worshiped him as Prince Xima. He moved to Shangshu Youcheng and went to court to serve as the governor of Jizhou. His stepmother Du refused to go with Fu Xian, so Fu Xian petitioned to be dismissed.
Thirty years later, he was appointed Situ Zuo Changshi.
At that time, Emperor Wu paid attention to political affairs and issued an edict to visit courtiers to inquire about political affairs.
Fu Xian wrote a letter saying: Your Majesty is in the most distinguished position, but you do what commoners do, take care of everything yourself, and work hard until the sun is in the west.
The emperors of the past, even if they personally did small things to benefit the world, they would not surpass His Majesty.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
然泰始开元以暨于今，十有五年矣。而军国未丰，百姓不赡，一岁不登便有菜色者，诚由官众事殷，复除猥滥，蚕食者多而亲农者少也。
臣以顽疏，谬忝近职，每见圣诏以百姓饥馑为虑，无能云补，伏用惭恧，敢不自竭，以对天问。
旧都督有四，今并监军，乃盈于十。
夏禹敷土，分为九州，今之刺史，几向一倍。户口比汉十分之一，而置郡县更多。
空校牙门，无益宿卫，而虚立军府，动有百数。
五等诸侯，复坐置官属。
诸所宠给，皆生于百姓。
一夫不农，有受其饥，今之不农，不可胜计。
纵使五稼普收，仅足相接；暂有灾患，便不继赡。
以为当今之急，先并官省事，静事息役，上下用心，惟农是务也。
咸在位多所执正。
translation: 
However, it has been fifteen years since the founding of Thailand, but the army and the country are not strong enough, and the people are not rich enough. When a year is not good, famine will occur. It is indeed because there are too many official positions and complicated affairs, and there are too many people who are exempted from corvee. There are many people who cannibalize and few people who work in agriculture.
Because of my ignorance and carelessness, I am ashamed of my position. Every time I see the edicts worrying about the people's famine in the years and being unable to help, I feel extremely ashamed. How dare I not use all my stupidity to answer the emperor's inquiries?
There used to be four governors, but now including the supervisors, there are more than ten.
Xia Yu divided the land into nine states. The current number of governors is almost doubled, the household population is only one-tenth that of the Han Dynasty, and there are even more counties and counties.
The empty gate of the captain's teeth is of no use to the palace guards, but military mansions are set up out of thin air, and there are often hundreds of them.
The fifth-level princes also set up official subordinates.
All kinds of favored provisions were taken from the people.
If a person does not farm, someone will suffer from hunger. There are countless people who do not farm now.
Even if the grain harvest is good, it can only meet the needs of the green and yellow; if there is a sudden disaster, it will not be enough.
I believe that the top priority is to consolidate official positions, simplify trivial matters, stop doing errands, stop corvee work, and work together to devote ourselves to agricultural production.
Fu Xian was always able to uphold justice during his tenure.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
豫州大中正夏侯骏上言，鲁国小中正、司空司马孔毓，四移病所，不能接宾，求以尚书郎曹馥代毓，旬日复上毓为中正。
司徒三却，骏故据正。
咸以骏与夺惟意，乃奏免骏大中正。
司徒魏舒，骏之姻属，屡却不署，咸据正甚苦。
舒终不从，咸遂独上。
舒奏咸激讪不直，诏转咸为车骑司马。
咸以世俗奢侈，又上书曰： 臣以为谷帛难生，而用之不节，无缘不匮。
故先王之化天下，食肉衣帛，皆有其制。
窃谓奢侈之费，甚于天灾。
古者尧有茅茨，今之百姓竞丰其屋。古者臣无玉食，今之贾竖皆厌粱肉。古者后妃乃有殊饰，今之婢妾被服绫罗。古者大夫乃不徒行，今之贱隶乘轻驱肥。
古者人稠地狭而有储蓄，由于节也；今者土广人稀而患不足，由于奢也。
欲时之俭，当诘其奢；奢不见诘，转相高尚。
translation: 
Xia Houjun, the Dazhongzheng of Yuzhou, wrote: "The Xiaozhongzheng of Lu and Kong Yu, the Sikong Sima, have been moved to recuperate four times and cannot receive guests. They request that Cao Fu, the Minister of Finance, be allowed to replace Kong Yu." More than ten days later, he went to Shu to let Kong Yu continue to be in the middle.
Situ refused to accept the offer three times, but Xia Houjun still insisted on his opinion.
Fu Xian believed that Xia Houjun praised and criticized Xiahou Jun at will, so he petitioned to remove him from the post of Dazhongzheng.
Situ Wei Shu and Xia Houjun were related by marriage and repeatedly refused to sign. Fu Xian tried his best to argue with his arguments.
Wei Shu finally disagreed, so Fu Xian submitted a letter alone.
Wei Shu reported that Fu Xian's slander was excessive and lacked integrity, so he issued an edict to transfer him to the position of Chariot and Cavalry Commander.
Seeing the luxury of the world, Fu Xian wrote again: I think food and clothing are difficult to produce. If we don't use them sparingly, there is no reason why we should not be in shortage.
Therefore, the former king was popular in the world, and the meat and silk he ate were all customized.
I privately believe that extravagance and waste are worse than natural disasters.
In ancient times, the emperor Yao only had thatched houses, but now common people are competing to build spacious houses; in ancient times, ministers did not have exquisite food, but now businessmen can feast on delicious food; in ancient times, only concubines had special clothes, but now slaves, wives and concubines all wear silk and satin; in ancient times, only doctors had chariots, but now lowly slaves also drive light chariots and fat horses.
In ancient times, the reason for having savings in a densely populated area was due to frugality; now the land is vast and the population is sparse, but there are not enough worries because of luxury.
If you want to be thrifty, you should prohibit luxury; if luxury is not prohibited, you will compete with others.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
昔毛玠为吏部尚书，时无敢好衣美食者。
魏武帝叹曰： 孤之法不如毛尚书。
令使诸部用心，各如毛玠，风俗之移，在不难矣。
又议移县狱于郡及二社应立，朝廷从之。
迁尚书左丞。
惠帝即位，杨骏辅政。
咸言于骏曰： 事与世变，礼随时宜，谅暗之不行尚矣。
由世道弥薄，权不可假，故虽斩焉在疚，而躬览万机也。
逮至汉文，以天下体大，服重难久，遂制既葬而除。
世祖武皇帝虽大孝蒸蒸，亦从时释服，制心丧三年，至于万机之事，则有不遑。
今圣上欲委政于公，谅暗自居，此虽谦让之心，而天下未以为善。
天下未以为善者，以亿兆颙颙，戴仰宸极，听于冢宰，惧天光有蔽。
人心既已若此，而明公处之固未为易也。
窃谓山陵之事既毕，明公当思隆替之宜。
translation: 
In the past, when Mao Wangjie was the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, no one dared to wear beautiful clothes or eat delicious food.
Emperor Wu of Wei lamented: My laws are not as good as those of Mao Shangshu.
If all the ministries have the same intentions as Mao Wangjie, it is indeed not difficult to change customs.
They also discussed moving the county prison to the county and establishing two communes, and the court agreed.
Moved to the post of Minister Zuocheng.
Emperor Hui Sima Zhong succeeded to the throne, and Yang Jun assisted in government affairs.
Fu Xian said to Yang Jun: Things change at any time, and etiquette and justice are appropriate at any time. The emperor has not implemented the system of mourning for a long time.
Because the world is in decline, political affairs cannot be managed by others, so even though we are in a period of mourning, we still have to take care of everything ourselves.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Liu Heng, believed that the world was huge and mourning was too heavy to last, he decided to remove the mourning after burial.
Emperor Wu Sima Yan was very filial and honest, and he also decided to stay in mourning for three years. As for the day-to-day affairs, he was so busy that he had no time to spare.
Now the Holy One wants to hand over political affairs to you and let him stay in mourning. Although this is a humble attitude, people in the world don't think it is very appropriate.
The reason why it is not very appropriate is because all the people admire and respect the emperor. If he obeys the emperor's orders, it may block the light of the sky.
Since people's hearts are like this, it won't be easy for you to be in the regent position.
I privately think that the funeral is over, and you should think about the appropriate time for the funeral.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
周公圣人，犹不免谤。
以此推之，周公之任既未易而处，况圣上春秋非成王之年乎！
得意忘言，言未易尽。
苟明公有以察其悾款，言岂在多。
时司隶荀恺从兄丧，自表赴哀，诏听之而未下，恺乃造骏。
咸因奏曰： 死丧之戚，兄弟孔怀。同堂亡陨，方在信宿，圣恩矜悯，听使临丧。
诏未下而便以行造，急谄媚之敬，无友于之情。
宜加显贬，以隆风教。
帝以骏管朝政，有诏不问，骏甚惮之。
咸复与骏笺讽切之，骏意稍折，渐以不平。
由是欲出为京兆、弘农太守，骏甥李斌说骏，不宜斥出正人，乃止。
骏弟济素与咸善，与咸书曰： 江海之流混混，故能成其深广也。
translation: 
Duke Zhou is a saint and cannot avoid slander.
It can be inferred from this that it is no longer easy to handle the appointment of Duke Zhou, not to mention that the age of the Holy Emperor is not that of King Zhou Cheng?
I was so proud that I forgot to speak, and it was not easy for me to express myself clearly.
If you can sense my sincerity, why does it matter how many words you have?
At that time, Si Li Xun Kai's cousin died, and he went to attend the funeral. Before the imperial edict was issued, Xun Kai visited Yang Jun.
Therefore, Fu Xian wrote in a memorial: "The death of a brother is sad, and the death of a brother is even more sad. Xun Kai died in the same house only a few days ago. The emperor took pity on him and allowed him to mourn."
Before the edict was issued, he went to bid farewell and visit important people, eager to show flattery and respect, but without the true feelings of brotherly friendship.
He should be severely demoted and deposed in order to uphold customs and enlightenment.
The emperor thought that Yang Jun was in charge of the affairs of the court, and when he was asked about the imperial edict, Yang Jun was very frightened.
Fu Xian wrote another letter to Yang Jun, his satirical remonstrances were straightforward. Yang Jun restrained himself slightly and gradually became dissatisfied.
He wanted Fu Xian to serve as the governor of Jingzhao and Hongnong. Yang Jun's nephew Li Bin persuaded Yang Jun that upright people should not be criticized for serving as foreign officials, so he was able to stop.
Yang Jun's younger brother Yang Ji has always been friendly with Fu Xian. He wrote to Fu Xian: The flowing water of the river and sea is rolling in waves, so it can achieve its depth and breadth.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
天下大器，非可稍了，而相观每事欲了。
生子痴，了官事，官事未易了也。
了事正作痴，复为快耳！
左丞总司天台，维正八坐，此未易居。
以君尽性而处未易居之任，益不易也。
想虑破头，故具有白。
咸答曰： 卫公云酒色之杀人，此甚于作直。
坐酒色死，人不为悔。
逆畏以直致祸，此由心不直正，欲以苟且为明哲耳！
自古以直致祸者，当自矫枉过直，或不忠允，欲以亢厉为声，故致忿耳。
安有空空为忠益，而当见疾乎！
居无何，骏诛。咸转为太子中庶子，迁御史中丞。
时太宰、汝南王亮辅政，咸致书曰： 咸以为太甲、成王年在蒙幼，故有伊、周之事。
圣人且犹不免疑，况臣既不圣，王非孺子，而可以行伊、周之事乎！
上在谅暗，听于冢宰，而杨骏无状，便作伊、周，自为居天下之安，所以至死。
translation: 
The world is a big thing and it is impossible to understand it very well, but I think you want to understand everything.
You are born with dementia, but you can understand official affairs, and official affairs are not easy to understand.
It is also a happy thing to understand that official affairs are the time to be stupid.
Zuo Cheng leads the imperial court and assists eight ministers and hundreds of officials. This position is not easy to occupy.
It is even more difficult to be in a position that is not easy for you to speak out with your willfulness.
Thinking about it gives me a headache, so I state it as above.
Fu Xian replied: Duke Wei said that killing people with wine and sex is more powerful than upright people.
I have no regrets about dying because of drunkenness and lust.
In advance, you are afraid that being upright will lead to disaster. This is because your heart is not upright, and you want to live an ignoble life as a wise sage!
Since ancient times, people who have caused disasters because of their integrity should have gone too far or been not loyal enough. They have to use extreme cruelty to establish their reputation, so they are resented.
How can anyone be sincere and loyal yet be envied and hated?
Soon after, Yang Jun was executed, and Fu Xian was transferred to the position of Prince's concubine and promoted to Yu Shi Zhongcheng.
At that time, Dazai and Runan King Sima Liang assisted the government. Fu Xian wrote a letter saying: I think that Taijia of the Shang Dynasty and Chengwang of the Zhou Dynasty were young, so Yi Yin and Zhou Gong assisted the government.
The sages of the previous generations were inevitably doubted, not to mention that the current ministers are not saints, and the kings are not cowards. How can we imitate the old deeds of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong!
The monarch was in mourning and obeyed the orders of the Grand Prime Minister. Yang Jun was rude, but he wanted to be the Duke of Yiyin and Zhou, thinking that he could assist the government and stabilize the world, so he died.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其罪既不可胜，亦是殿下所见。
骏之见讨，发自天聪，孟观、李肇与知密旨耳。
至于论功，当归美于上。
观等已数千户县侯，圣上以骏死莫不欣悦，故论功宁厚，以叙其欢心。
此群下所宜以实裁量，而遂扇动，东安封王，孟、李郡公，余侯伯子男，既妄有加，复又三等超迁。
此之熏赫，震动天地，自古以来，封赏未有若此者也。
无功而厚赏，莫不乐国有祸，祸起当复有大功也。
人而乐祸，其可极乎！
作此者，皆由东安公。
谓殿下至止，当有以正之。
正之以道，众亦何所怒乎！
众之所怒，在于不平耳。
而今皆更倍论，莫不失望。
咸之愚冗，不惟失望而已，窃以为忧。
又讨骏之时，殿下在外，实所不综。
今欲委重，故令殿下论功。
论功之事，实未易可处，莫若坐观得失，有居正之事宜也。
咸复以亮辅政专权，又谏曰： 杨骏有震主之威，委任亲戚，此天下所以喧哗。
今之处重，宜反此失。
谓宜静默颐神，有大得失，乃维持之；自非大事，一皆抑遣。
translation: 
His crimes are countless, as you have witnessed, Your Highness.
Yang Jun was attacked because of the emperor's sage. Meng Guan and Li Zhao only participated in and knew the secret decree.
As for the credit for commenting, it should go to the Emperor.
Meng Guan and others were already marquises in a large county with thousands of households. The Holy Emperor was extremely happy to kill Yang Jun, so he would rather reward generously to express his joy.
This is a fact that ministers and subordinates should weigh. But now they are inciting and inciting them to make Duke Dong'an king, Meng Guan and Li Zhao are both county princes, and the rest are named marquis, uncle, son, and male. After the false titles were added, the third class was promoted to an exceptional level.
This illustrious momentum shook the earth. There had never been such a reward since ancient times.
If there is no merit but generous rewards, no one will be unhappy when the country suffers disasters, because when disasters arise, great achievements will be made.
People take pleasure in causing chaos, so where is the limit?
This practice all came from Dong'an Gong.
After His Highness takes office, he should find a way to correct it.
If we use the Great Way to make things right, why should people be angry?
What everyone is angry about is just unfairness.
Nowadays, everyone is talking behind his back, and no one is not disappointed.
I was stupid, not just disappointed, but secretly worried.
In addition, when you denounced Yang Jun, Your Highness was still outside the court and you really did not participate.
Now we have to entrust you with an important task, so let His Highness discuss his merits.
Discussing merit is really not easy to deal with. It is better to sit back and watch the pros and cons, and you will have the fact that you are upright in your position.
Fu Xian also remonstrated because Sima Liang was in charge of the government and said: "Yang Jun has the power to shock the monarch. He appoints relatives. This is the reason for the uproar in the world."
Now that you are serving as assistant to the government, you should correct this mistake.
I think we should calm down and recuperate. If there are big gains and losses, we will continue to deal with them. Except for major issues, we should refrain from dismissing them.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
比四造诣，及经过尊门，冠盖车马，填塞街衢，此之翕习，既宜弭息。
又夏侯长容奉使为先帝请命，祈祷无感，先帝崩背，宜自咎责，而自求请命之劳，而公以为少府。
私窃之论，云长容则公之姻，故至于此。
一犬吠形，群犬吠声，惧于群吠，遂至叵听也。咸之为人，不能面从而有后言。
尝触杨骏，几为身祸；况于殿下，而当有惜！
往从驾，殿下见语： 卿不识韩非逆鳞之言耶，而欻摩天子逆鳞！
自知所陈，诚触猛兽之须耳。
所以敢言，庶殿下当识其不胜区区。
前摩天子逆鳞，欲以尽忠；今触猛兽之须，非欲为恶，必将以此见恕。
亮不纳。
长容者，夏侯骏也。
会丙寅，诏群僚举郡县之职以补内官。
translation: 
During my four visits to your residence and when I pass by your door on a regular basis, I always see officials and officials crowding the streets. This habit should be stopped.
In addition, Xiahou Changrong was envoyed to pray for the late emperor, but his prayers did not move God. When the late emperor passed away, Xiahou Changrong should blame himself. But now you are asking for the credit of asking for life, and you appointed him as the young man.
I privately think that Xiahou Changrong is your in-law, that's why it's like this. The shape of a dog barking, the sound of a group of dogs barking.
Because he was afraid of the barking of the dogs, he could not obey. As a person, I can't flatter and obey someone in person, and I can't even slander someone behind my back.
It turns out that I once offended Yang Jun and almost suffered disaster, not to mention that I should cherish His Highness.
When I was riding with you earlier, you said to me: Don’t you know what Han Feizi said: Offending a human being is like touching the scales of a dragon? And you are actually touching the scales of the Emperor's inversion.
I know that what I stated is indeed touching the beard of the beast without stopping.
And the reason why I dare to speak out is that I hope that you, Your Highness, will understand my mere thoughts.
When I touched the scales of the emperor before, I wanted to be loyal; now when I touch the beard of a beast, I don’t want to do evil, so I will be forgiven.
Sima Liang did not adopt it.
Xiahou Changrong is Xiahoujun.
On May 28th, an edict was issued asking all officials to recommend officials from counties and counties to supplement the court officials.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
咸复上书曰： 臣咸以为夫兴化之要，在于官人。才非一流，职有不同。
譬诸林木，洪纤枉直，各有攸施。
故明扬逮于仄陋，畴咨无拘内外。内外之任，出处随宜，中间选用，惟内是隆。外举既穨，复多节目，竞内薄外，遂成风俗。
此弊诚宜亟革之，当内外通塞无所偏耳。
既使通塞无偏，若选用不平，有以深责，责之苟深，无忧不平也。
且胶柱不可以调瑟，况乎官人而可以限乎！
伏思所限者，以防选用不能出人。不能出人，当随事而制，无须限法。
法之有限，其于致远，无乃泥乎！
或谓不制其法，以何为贵？臣闻刑惩小人，义责君子，君子之责，在心不在限也。
正始中，任何晏以选举，内外之众职各得其才，粲然之美于斯可观。
如此，非徒御之以限，法之所致，乃委任之由也。委任之惧，甚于限法。
translation: 
Fu Xian wrote again: I believe that the key to national prosperity and education lies in selecting talents and giving them appropriate official positions. There is more than one type of talent, and there are different positions.
For example, forest trees, thick and thin, curved and straight, have their own uses.
Therefore, people with humble backgrounds are carefully observed and recommended, and people who are planning and consulting, regardless of whether they are internal or external, and whether they are serving internally or externally, only seek suitability. Nowadays, only internal officials are recommended for selection and appointment. The recommendation of local officials has been partial and full of side effects, and people are vying to become government officials and despise local appointments. It becomes a custom.
This shortcoming should be corrected immediately to make the selection channels for internal and external officials smooth and impartial.
After making the channels smooth and unbiased, if the selection is unfair, there will be a way to impose heavy penalties; if the penalties are increased, there is no need to worry about unfairness.
Besides, you can't tune the harp if you stick to the strings, not to mention how can you restrict the selection of talents?
I think the reason for the restriction is to prevent the selection from being beyond the general public. If it cannot be beyond the general public, sanctions should be based on the situation, and there is no need to restrict the selection method.
There are restrictions on the selection method. If you want to implement it for a long time, I am afraid it is too rigid!
Some people think that if there is no selection method, why should we select? I have heard that punishments are used to punish villains, and morality is used to demand gentlemen. The requirements for gentlemen are in the heart and not in restrictions.
During the Zhengshi period, He Yan was entrusted with the election, and various officials inside and outside the court received suitable talents, and there were many outstanding talents.
Therefore, this is not caused by restrictive control, nor by measures, but the reason for the appointment. The worries of the appointee are more serious than the restrictive method.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
是法之失，非己之尤，尤不在己，责之无惧，所谓 齐之以刑，人免而无耻 者也。
苟委任之，一则虑罪之及，二则惧致怨谤。
己快则朝野称咏，不善则众恶见归，此之战战，孰与倚限法以苟免乎！
咸再为本郡中正，遭继母忧去官。
顷之，起以议郎，长兼司隶校尉。
咸前后固辞，不听，敕使者就拜，咸复送还印绶。
公车不通，催使摄职。
咸以身无兄弟，丧祭无主，重自陈乞，乃使于官舍设灵坐。
咸又上表曰： 臣既驽弱，不胜重任。
加在哀疚，假息日阕，陛下过意，授非所堪。
披露丹款，归穷上闻，谬诏既往，终然无改。
臣虽不能灭身以全礼教，义无靦然，虚忝隆宠。
前受严诏，视事之日，私心自誓，陨越为报。
translation: 
This is because the method is wrong and it is not your own fault. Since the fault is not yours, there is no need to worry about blaming him. As the saying goes, using criminal laws to unify people's actions, although people are exempted from breaking the law, they have no sense of shame.
If the method of appointment is used, one is to consider that the guilt will be implicated on oneself, and the other is to fear being resented and slandered.
If you are happy, you will be praised both inside and outside the court, if you are not good, all kinds of evil will be committed. Which is more effective, this kind of frightening people, or relying on restrictive laws to avoid it?
Fu Xian was once again appointed Zhengzheng of the county, but resigned when his stepmother died.
Soon he was promoted to Yilang and concurrently served as Sili Xiaowei.
Fu Xian declined many times but was not approved. The imperial court sent an envoy to his home to confer duties, and Fu Xian returned the seal and ribbon.
He was not informed on the bus and urged to take office as director.
Since Fu Xian had no brothers and no one would conduct the funeral, he asked again to allow him to set up a memorial tablet in his official residence.
Fu Xian went on to say, "Since I am dull and cowardly, I cannot take on important responsibilities."
In addition to mourning and asking for leave to rest, Your Majesty was too gracious and granted me a position that I was unable to perform.
I expressed my sincerity and risked my life to report it. I have violated the edict and will not change in the end.
Although I cannot sacrifice my life to preserve the ethics, I cannot change my mind according to morality and receive grace in vain.
In the past, he accepted strict orders and when he took office, he swore privately that he would die as retribution.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
以货赂流行，所宜深绝，切敕都官，以此为先。
而经弥日月，未有所得。
斯由陛下有以奖厉，虑于愚戆，将必死系，故自掩检以避其锋耳。
在职有日，既无赫然之举，又不应弦垂翅，人谁复惮？
故光禄大夫刘毅为司隶，声震内外，远近清肃。
非徒毅有王臣匪躬之节，亦由所奏见从，威风得伸也。
诏曰： 但当思必应绳中理，威风日伸，何独刘毅！
时朝廷宽弛，豪右放恣，交私请托，朝野溷淆。
咸奏免河南尹澹、左将军倩、廷尉高光、兼河南尹何攀等，京都肃然，贵戚慑伏。
咸以 圣人久于其道，天下化成。
是以唐、虞三载考绩，九年黜陟。
其在《周礼》，三年大比。
孔子亦云， 三年有成 。
translation: 
Because bribery is so popular, it should be strictly eradicated, and the governor must be ordered to take this matter as the top priority.
But after years and months, nothing has been achieved.
This is because His Majesty has a way to reward people. Considering that ignorant people will definitely die or be guilty, it is natural to cover up their mistakes to avoid being exposed.
Having been in office for a long time, without any outstanding behavior, and unable to follow the lead, who would still be afraid?
Therefore, Liu Yi, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as the official, and his prestige shocked both inside and outside the court, and he was respected far and near.
Not only did Liu Yi have the integrity to assist the royal family and be loyal to the king, but also because he obeyed everything he told him, so he could display his majesty.
The edict said: You should only think that everything is in compliance with Shengmo's laws and let your prestige spread day by day. How can you be just Liu Yi?
At that time, the politics of the imperial court were relaxed, the powerful and powerful families indulged in unbridled affairs, made personal friends and favors, and the government and the public were in chaos.
Fu Xian submitted a petition to depose Henan Yin Dan, Zuo Jiangjun Qian, Tingwei Gaoguang, and Henan Yin Hepan. The capital was in awe, and the nobles were intimidated and subdued.
Fu Xian believed that only when saints govern the country for a long time can the world be enlightened.
Therefore, Yao and Shun evaluated political performance in three years and discussed promotion and demotion in nine years.
"The Rites of Zhou" also implements a three-year competition.
Confucius also said: It takes three years to achieve success.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
而中间以来，长吏到官，未几便迁，百姓困于无定，吏卒疲于送迎 。
时仆射王戎兼吏部，咸奏： 戎备位台辅，兼掌选举，不能谧静风俗，以凝庶绩，至令人心倾动，开张浮竞。
中郎李重、李义不相匡正。
请免戎等官。
诏曰： 政道之本，诚宜久于其职，咸奏是也。
戎职在论道，吾所崇委，其解禁止。
御史中丞解结以咸劾戎为违典制，越局侵官，干非其分，奏免咸官。诏亦不许。
咸上事以为 按令，御史中丞督司百僚。
皇太子以下，其在行马内，有违法宪者皆弹纠之。虽在行马外，而监司不纠，亦得奏之。
如令之文，行马之内有违法宪，谓禁防之事耳。宫内禁防，外司不得而行，故专施中丞。
今道路桥梁不修，斗讼屠沽不绝，如此之比，中丞推责州坐，即今所谓行马内语施于禁防。
既云中丞督司百僚矣，何复说行马之内乎！
既云百僚，而不得复说行马之内者，内外众官谓之百僚，则通内外矣。
司隶所以不复说行马内外者，禁防之事已于中丞说之故也。
中丞、司隶俱纠皇太子以下，则共对司内外矣，不为中丞专司内百僚，司隶专司外百僚。自有中丞、司隶以来，更互奏内外众官，惟所纠得无内外之限也。
translation: 
But in recent times, long-term officials have taken up posts in government offices and were soon reassigned. The people are troubled by the lack of fixed officials, and the officials are tired of seeing off the old and welcoming the new.
At that time, the servant Wang Rong was also in charge of the official department. Fu Xian reported: Wang Rong was in the position of Taifu and was also in charge of elections, but he did not calm the customs and gather achievements, which made people uneasy and uneasy, and opened up the wind of frivolous competition.
The lieutenants Li Chong and Li Yi did not correct him.
I request that Wang Rong and others be relieved of their duties.
The edict said: The foundation of political ethics is that one should serve for a long time. Fu Xian's report is correct.
Wang Rong's duty is to review affairs. He is recommended by me and cannot be removed from office.
Yushi Zhongcheng Jiejie believed that Fu Xian's impeachment of Wang Rong violated the code, violated the rules, interfered with matters that were not within his authority, so he submitted a memorial to remove Fu Xian from his official position, but the edict did not agree.
Fu Xian Shangshu believed: According to the law, the imperial minister supervises all officials.
Regarding matters below the Crown Prince, those who violate laws and regulations must be impeached and corrected within the scope of the inspection and censor's control. Even outside the scope of the inspection, if the supervisor does not investigate, he can be impeached.
According to the provisions of the law, riding a horse violates the constitution and is considered to be a prohibited matter. Prevention is prohibited in the palace and cannot be carried out by foreign officials, so Zhongcheng is given the full responsibility.
Nowadays, roads and bridges have not been built, and there are constant fights and lawsuits between butchers and customers. For such things, Zhongcheng shirks the responsibility to the governors of prefectures and counties. This is what is now called the implementation of prohibitions and precautions during horseback riding.
Since it is said that Zhongcheng supervises hundreds of officials, why bother talking about Xingma within?
Since we talk about Baiguan, we can no longer talk about Xingma. All kinds of officials inside and outside are called Baiguan. Originally, the internal and external colluded.
The reason why Sili stopped talking about traveling on horseback was because he had already told Zhongcheng about the prohibitions and precautions.
Zhongcheng and Sili both supervise all matters below the crown prince. In fact, they are jointly in charge of internal and external matters. It does not mean that Zhongcheng is in charge of all officials in the inner court, and Sili is in charge of all officials in the outer court. Since Sili and Zhongcheng have been in charge, they have been interfering with internal and external officials. But I am afraid there will be no internal or external restrictions on what they inspect.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
而结一旦横挫臣，臣前所以不罗缕者，冀因结奏得从私愿也。
今既所愿不从，而敕云但为过耳，非所不及也，以此见原。
臣忝司直之任，宜当正己率人，若其有过，不敢受原，是以申陈其愚。
司隶与中丞俱共纠皇太子以下，则从皇太子以下无所不纠也。
得纠皇太子而不得纠尚书，臣之暗塞既所未譬。
皇太子为在行马之内邪，皇太子在行马之内而得纠之，尚书在行马之内而不得纠，无有此理。
此理灼然，而结以此挫臣。
臣可无恨耳，其于观听，无乃有怪邪！
臣识石公前在殿上脱衣，为司隶荀恺所奏，先帝不以为非，于时莫谓侵官；今臣裁纠尚书，而当有罪乎？
咸累自上称引故事，条理灼然，朝廷无以易之。
吴郡顾荣常与亲故书曰： 傅长虞为司隶，劲直忠果，劾按惊人。
虽非周才，偏亮可贵也。
translation: 
However, Jie Jie suddenly accused me. The reason why I did not defend myself before was because I hoped Jie Jie's memorial would fulfill my wish.
Now that I can't do what I want, and the edict says it's just a mistake, and it's not something I didn't say, I forgive him.
I am in charge of direct remonstrance, and I should correct my own moral character to set an example for others. If I make a mistake, I dare not accept forgiveness, so I will state my humble opinion.
If Sili and Zhongcheng jointly correct all matters below the crown prince, then there will be no one from the crown prince on down who cannot correct them.
If the crown prince can be interrogated but the minister cannot be interrogated, this is something I cannot understand.
Does the Crown Prince count as a traveler? If the crown prince can check him within walking distance of the horse, but the minister cannot check him within the walking distance of the horse, there is no such reason.
The truth is very clear, but Jiejie accused me of it.
I can't be resentful, but onlookers shouldn't be surprised either?
I remember that Shi Gong took off his clothes in the palace and was played by Xun Kai, the minister. The late emperor did not think it was wrong. At that time, no one said that it was an infringement of his position and overstepped his authority. Now that I am interrogating the minister, should I be considered guilty?
Fu Xian repeatedly cited past facts in his letters, which were clearly organized and could not be changed by the court.
Gu Rong of Wu County often wrote to his relatives: Fu Xian was a secretary, he was upright, loyal, brave and courageous, and the impeachment memorial was surprising.
Although he is not a perfect talent, he is very valuable in terms of integrity.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
元康四年卒官，时年五十六，诏赠司隶校尉，朝服一具、衣一袭、钱二十万，谥曰贞。
有三子：敷、晞、纂。
长子敷嗣。
translation: 
Yuankang died in the official office in the fourth year of his reign at the age of fifty-six. The edict gave him the title of Sili Xiaowei, a set of court uniforms, a collar and a robe, 200,000 yuan, and a posthumous title of Zhen.
Fu Xian had three sons: Fu Fu, Fu Rixi and Fu Zuan.
The eldest son Fu Fu inherited the title.


