Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝文皇帝，高祖中子也，母曰薄姬。
高祖十一年，诛陈豨，定代地，立为代王，都中都。
十七年秋，高后崩，诸吕谋为乱，欲危刘氏。
丞相陈平、太尉周勃、朱虚侯刘章等共诛之，谋立代王。
语在《高后纪》、《高五王传》。
大臣遂使人迎代王。
郎中令张武等议，皆曰： 汉大臣皆故高帝时将，习兵事，多谋诈，其属意非止此也，特畏高帝、吕太后威耳。
今已诛诸吕，新喋血京师，以迎大王为名，实不可信。
愿称疾无往，以观其变。
中尉宋昌进曰： 群臣之议皆非也。
夫秦失其政，豪杰并起，人人自以为得之者以万数，然卒践天子位者，刘氏也，天下绝望，一矣。
高帝王子弟，地犬牙相制，所谓盘石之宗也，天下服其强，二矣。
汉兴，除秦烦苛，约法令，施德惠，人人自安，难动摇，三矣。
夫以吕太后之严，立诸吕为三王，擅权专制，然而太尉以一节入北军，一呼士皆袒左，为刘氏，畔诸吕，卒以灭之。
此乃天授，非人力也。
今大臣虽欲为变，百姓弗为使，其党宁能专一邪？
内有朱虚、东牟之亲，外畏吴、楚、淮南、琅邪、齐、代之强。
方今高帝子独淮南王与大王，大王又长，贤圣仁孝闻于天下，故大臣因天下之心而欲迎立大王，大王勿疑也。
代王报太后，计犹豫未定。
卜之，兆得大横。占曰： 大横庚庚，余为天王，夏启以光。
代王曰： 寡人固已为王，又何王乎？
卜人曰： 所谓天王者，乃天子也。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowen was the fourth son of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and his mother was Bo Ji.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Chen Xi was executed and the Dai territory was pacified. He made him the Dai king and made his capital Zhongdu.
In the autumn of the seventeenth year of King Dai's reign, Empress Lu passed away, and Zhu Lu planned a coup to seize Liu Han's power.
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang and others jointly killed the Lu family and discussed the appointment of the acting king Liu Heng as the emperor.
The historical events are recorded in "Book of Han·Gao Hou Ji and Gao Wu Wang Biography".
The ministers sent people to greet the king.
After deliberation, Zhang Wu, the king's lieutenant, said: The ministers of the Han Dynasty are all veteran generals from the time of Emperor Gao. They are familiar with military affairs and well versed in intrigues and tricks. In their hearts, they are not satisfied with their current status. They are just afraid of the majesty of Emperor Gao and Empress Lu.
Now that Zhu Lu has been executed and blood has been spilled in the capital, it is unbelievable to welcome the king to the capital in the name of proclaiming himself emperor.
I hope your Majesty will not go there on the grounds of illness, so as to observe changes in the situation.
Lieutenant Song Chang added: Their comments are wrong.
The Qin Dynasty was in disarray, heroes arose, and there were no less than ten thousand people who wanted to replace the Qin Dynasty and claim the title of emperor in the south. However, in the end, only the Liu family was able to rule the world. People in the world who harbored evil thoughts were desperate. This was one of them.
Emperor Gao made his children kings, and the fiefdoms were intertwined. This became a rock-like core. The world obeyed Liu Han's strength. This was the second one.
The establishment of the Han Dynasty abolished the harshness of the Qin Dynasty, reduced punishments, extended kindness and benefits, and made everyone feel at ease, which won the hearts of the people.
With the majesty of the Empress Dowager Lu, she established Zhu Lu as the three kings and was good at despotic power. However, the Taiwei Zhou Bo entered the Northern Army with a talisman and called on the soldiers to support the Liu family and oppose Zhu Lu. As a result, the Lu family was wiped out.
This shows that Liu Han's regime was given by heaven and could not be changed by a few manpower.
Nowadays, although some ministers want to launch a coup, the people are unwilling to listen to them. Can they achieve their goals by relying on a small number of his party members?
Inside Kyoto, there is the unity of Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou, and outside there are the powers of Wu, Chu, Huainan, Langwangya, Qi and Dai.
Nowadays, the only sons of Emperor Gao are the King of Huainan and you, the king. The king lives long, is a sage, benevolent and filial, and is famous all over the world. Therefore, the ministers in the court obey the wishes of the people and want to welcome the king, so the king does not have to worry.
Reporting to the Queen Mother on behalf of the king, it was difficult to make a decision for a while.
Then he asked someone to divine, and he got a great omen. The fortune teller said: Great, Gengen, I am the king of heaven, Xia Qiguang Zong Yaozu.
Dai Wang said: I am already a king, so why do I need to add a king's title?
The diviner said: The so-called king of heaven in the hexagram is the emperor!

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Xiaowen, the fourth son of Emperor Gaozu of Han, was made King of Dai after the execution of Chen Xi. Following Empress Lu’s death, the Lu clan plotted to seize power but were killed by ministers Chen Ping, Zhou Bo, and others, who then decided to welcome King Dai as emperor. King Dai hesitated, with advisor Zhang Wu warning that the ministers were veteran generals skilled in intrigue and might not be trustworthy. However, Song Chang argued that the Han dynasty’s stability, the people’s loyalty to Liu, and the failure of the Lu clan’s usurpation proved divine support for Liu rule. After divination yielded a favorable omen, King Dai sent Bo Zhao to verify the ministers’ intentions. Zhou Bo confirmed their sincerity, and King Dai proceeded to Chang’an. At Weiqiao, Zhou Bo offered the imperial seal, but King Dai declined, insisting on discussing the matter at the palace. The ministers formally petitioned him to accept the throne, citing his lineage as Emperor Gaozu’s son. After three refusals, he agreed and became emperor.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
今不选举焉，而曰必子，人其以朕为忘贤有德者而专于子，非所以忧天下也。朕甚不取。
有司固请曰： 古者殷、周有国，治安皆且千岁，有天下者莫长焉，用此道也。
立嗣必子，所从来远矣。
高帝始平天下，建诸侯，为帝者太祖。
诸侯王、列侯始受国者亦皆为其国祖。
子孙继嗣，世世不绝，天下之大义也。
故高帝设之以抚海内。
今释宜建而更选于诸侯宗室，非高帝之志也。
更议不宜。
子启最长，敦厚慈仁，请建以为太子。
上乃许之。
因赐天下民当为父后者爵一级。
封将军薄昭为轵侯。
三月，有司请立皇后。皇太后曰： 立太子母窦氏为皇后。
诏曰： 方春和时，草木群生之物皆有以自乐，而吾百姓鳏、寡、孤、独、穷困之人或阽于死亡，而莫之省忧。为悯父母将何如？
其议所以振贷之。
又曰： 老者非帛不暖，非肉不饱。
今岁首，不时使人存问长老，又无布帛酒肉之赐，将何以佐天下子孙孝养其亲？
今闻吏禀当受鬻者，或以陈粟，岂称养老之意哉！
具为令。
有司请令县道，年八十已上，赐米人月一石，肉二十斤，酒五斗。
其九十已上，又赐帛人二匹，絮三斤。
赐物及当禀鬻米者，长吏阅视，丞若尉致。
不满九十，啬夫、令史致。
二千石遣都吏循行，不称者督之。
刑者及有罪耐以上，不用此令。
楚元王交薨。
四月，齐、楚地震，二十九山同日崩，大水溃出。
六月，令郡国无来献。
translation: 
If I do not elect virtuous people today, but say that I must establish a prince, people will think that I have forgotten the virtuous people and only want my son to succeed me. This is not really caring about world affairs, and I really do not want to adopt it.
Relevant officials repeatedly requested: In ancient times, Yin and Zhou conquered the world and enjoyed long-lasting peace and stability for nearly a thousand years. In the past, no one in the world could pass on the throne as long as the Yin and Zhou Dynasties. This is because both Yin and Zhou adopted the method of passing on the crown prince.
The crown prince must be the son of the emperor. This has always been the case in history.
Emperor Gao began to pacify the world, establish princes, and became the ancestor of Emperor Liu Han.
The princes, princes, and princes who began to receive feudal states also became the ancestors of the feudal states.
Succession by descendants from generation to generation is a universal justice.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu established a prince to stabilize the world.
It was not Emperor Gao's original intention to give up on the task of establishing a son as prince today and instead choose him from among the princes and clans.
It would be inappropriate to elect another person.
Prince Qi is the eldest son, kind and generous, so he asks the emperor to make him the crown prince.
The emperor finally agreed.
Therefore, the people of the world should be given the title of nobility as their father's heirs.
General Bo Zhao was granted the title of Marquis of Zhi.
In March, the relevant officials asked for the establishment of a queen, and the Empress Dowager said: Make Dou, the mother of the crown prince, the queen.
Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: When the spring breeze is gentle, flying animals, plants and other things have the joy of revival. However, the widowed, lonely and poor among our people may be struggling on the edge of death without receiving care and warmth. How can we, as parents of the people, feel at ease?
Relief should be discussed.
The edict also said: The old man will not be warm if he does not wear a cotton-padded jacket, and he will not be full if he does not eat meat.
In the early spring of this year, people were often sent to visit the elders. If they were not given some cloth, wine and meat, how could they help the descendants of the world to be filial and support their relatives?
I once heard that some officials gave old millets and rotten rice when distributing pension grains. Can this be said to be implementing the edict of providing pensions for the elderly?
The regulations will now be formulated in detail.
Relevant officials notified all counties and roads that those over eighty years of age would be given one stone of rice, twenty catties of meat, and five measures of wine per month.
For those who are over ninety years old, there will be an additional two pounds of silk and three pounds of catkins per person.
When giving gifts and pensions to elderly people over ninety years old, the county magistrate must personally supervise and inspect them, and the county magistrate or county lieutenant must personally deliver them.
Those who are less than 90 years old will be handed over by agricultural officials and regents.
High-ranking officials should send virtuous officials to patrol and inspect, and those who do not implement the edicts should be investigated and punished.
Elderly persons who have been sentenced and whose crimes will result in a sentence of more than two years are not subject to this order.
Liu Jiao, king of Chu Yuan, passed away.
In April, there was an earthquake in Qi and Chu. On the same day, twenty-nine mountains collapsed and floods surged.
In June, the county was ordered not to present property to the court.

summary:
summary line 1: Upon ascending the throne, Emperor Wen issued a general amnesty, rewarded those who had suppressed the Lu clan, and restored lands taken by the Lu family. He abolished the Qin law of collective punishment. When officials urged him to appoint a crown prince, he initially declined, citing his own unworthiness and suggesting a virtuous successor from among his relatives or ministers. After repeated requests, he appointed his eldest son, Prince Qi, as crown prince. He also established his consort Dou as empress. The emperor implemented benevolent policies, including tax relief for farmers, care for the elderly, and pardons for minor offenses. He abolished the crime of slander and attempted treason, emphasizing the importance of agriculture and reducing government expenditures.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
留游太原十余日。
济北王兴居闻帝之代欲自击匈奴，乃反，发兵欲袭荥阳。
于是诏罢丞相兵，以棘蒲侯柴武为大将军，将四将军十万众击之。
祁侯缯贺为将军，军荥阳。
秋七月，上自太原至长安。诏曰： 济北王背德反上，诖误吏民，为大逆。
济北吏民，兵未至先自定及以军、城邑降者，皆赦之，复官爵。
与王兴居居，去来者，亦赦之。
八月，虏济北王兴居，自杀。
赦诸与兴居反者。
四年冬十二月，丞相灌婴薨。
夏五月，复诸刘有属籍，家无所与。
赐诸侯王子邑各二千户。
秋九月，封齐悼惠王子七人为列侯。
绛侯周勃有罪，逮诣廷尉诏狱。
作顾成庙。
五月春二月，地震。
夏四月，除盗铸钱令。
更造四铢钱。
六年冬十月，桃、李华。
十一月，淮南王长谋反，废迁蜀严道，死雍。
七年冬十月，令列侯太夫人、夫人、诸侯王子及吏二千石无得擅征捕。
夏四月，赦天下。
六月癸酉，未央宫东阙罘罳灾。
八年夏，封淮南厉王长子四人为列侯。
有长星出于东方。
九年春，大旱。
十年冬，行幸甘泉。
将军薄昭死。
十一年冬十一月，行幸代。
春正月，上自代还。
夏六月，梁王揖薨。
匈奴寇狄道。
十二年冬十二月，河决东郡。
春正月，赐诸侯王女邑各二千户。
二月，出孝惠皇帝后宫美人，令得嫁。
三月，除关，无用传。
诏曰： 道民之路，在于务本。
translation: 
Stayed and visited Taiyuan for more than ten days.
When King Xingju of Jibei learned that the emperor had gone to Dai and planned to conquer the Xiongnu himself, he took advantage of the fact that there was no master in the court and launched a rebellion, dispatching troops and horses to attack Xingyang.
So he issued an edict to remove the prime minister Guan Ying from military power, and appointed Chai Wu, Marquis of Ji Pu, as the general. He led four brave generals and 100,000 troops to suppress the rebels.
Qihou Zanhe was made a general and sent reinforcements to Xingyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor went from Taiyuan to Chang'an and issued an edict saying: The king of Jibei betrayed the court and harmed the officials and people, and he was the chief culprit.
The officials and people in Jibei who planned to submit to the imperial court before the official troops arrived, or who submitted their army, city, or city to the official troops, would be pardoned and allowed to remain in office.
Those who are related to Wang Xingju of Jibei will also be pardoned.
In August, he captured Xingju, the king of Jibei, and Xingju committed suicide.
Those who participated in the Xingju rebellion were pardoned.
In the winter of December of the fourth year of Emperor Wen's reign, Prime Minister Guan Ying passed away.
In the fifth month of summer, the Liu family of the same clan as Liu Han was exempted from taxes and servitude, and nothing was given to his family.
Grant the princes and princes food and towns to each of 2,000 households.
In the ninth month of autumn, seven princes named Hui Hui of Qi were made marquises.
Jianghou Zhou Bo was guilty and was imprisoned in Tianlao after his arrest.
The small and humble Gu Cheng Temple was built.
In the spring and February of the fifth year, there was an earthquake.
In April of summer, the order for stealing money was abolished and private coining was allowed.
The four-baht coin was re-minted.
In the winter of the sixth year, in October, the peaches and plums bloomed.
In November, the king of Huainan rebelled, deposed the throne and was exiled to Yandao, Shu. He died in Yongdi on the way.
In the winter and tenth month of the seventh year, it was ordered that the wives, wives, princes and officials of the princes and officials should not be searched without permission.
In the fourth month of summer, the world is forgiven.
On June 2, the Quequ Pavilion on the east side of Weiyang Palace caught fire.
In the summer of the eighth year, the four sons of King Li of Huainan were granted the title of marquis.
There is a long comet out of the east.
In the spring of the ninth year, there was a severe drought.
In the winter of ten years, I patrolled to Ganquan.
General Bo Zhao passed away.
In the winter of the eleventh year, in November, I came to Dai.
In the first month of spring, the emperor returned to the capital from Dai.
In June of Xia, King Liang Yi passed away.
The Huns invaded Didao.
In the winter of the twelfth year in December, the Yellow River broke out in Dongjun.
In the first month of spring, the princes, princes and daughters were given 2,000 households each in Tangmuyi.
In February, Emperor Xiaohui dismissed Gong'e from the harem and could get married on her own.
In March, the law requiring the presentation of documents for entry and exit was abolished.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The way to guide the people is to grasp the fundamentals of agriculture.

summary:
summary line 2: During his reign, Emperor Wen faced challenges such as the rebellion of King Xingju of Jibei, which was swiftly suppressed, and conflicts with the Xiongnu, whom he managed through defense rather than costly campaigns. He promoted frugality, wearing simple clothes and forbidding lavish decorations. He also reformed the legal system, abolished corporal punishment, and encouraged the recommendation of virtuous officials. In his later years, he issued an edict on his deathbed, advocating simple funerals and urging the people not to mourn excessively. He was buried in Ba Ling with minimal ceremony, using earthenware vessels and no precious metals. Ban Gu praised Emperor Wen for his benevolence, noting that his reign saw prosperity, few imprisonments, and a flourishing of moral virtue.

