Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝文皇帝，高祖中子也，母曰薄姬。
高祖十一年，诛陈豨，定代地，立为代王，都中都。
十七年秋，高后崩，诸吕谋为乱，欲危刘氏。
丞相陈平、太尉周勃、朱虚侯刘章等共诛之，谋立代王。
语在《高后纪》、《高五王传》。
大臣遂使人迎代王。
郎中令张武等议，皆曰： 汉大臣皆故高帝时将，习兵事，多谋诈，其属意非止此也，特畏高帝、吕太后威耳。
今已诛诸吕，新喋血京师，以迎大王为名，实不可信。
愿称疾无往，以观其变。
中尉宋昌进曰： 群臣之议皆非也。
夫秦失其政，豪杰并起，人人自以为得之者以万数，然卒践天子位者，刘氏也，天下绝望，一矣。
高帝王子弟，地犬牙相制，所谓盘石之宗也，天下服其强，二矣。
汉兴，除秦烦苛，约法令，施德惠，人人自安，难动摇，三矣。
夫以吕太后之严，立诸吕为三王，擅权专制，然而太尉以一节入北军，一呼士皆袒左，为刘氏，畔诸吕，卒以灭之。
此乃天授，非人力也。
今大臣虽欲为变，百姓弗为使，其党宁能专一邪？
内有朱虚、东牟之亲，外畏吴、楚、淮南、琅邪、齐、代之强。
方今高帝子独淮南王与大王，大王又长，贤圣仁孝闻于天下，故大臣因天下之心而欲迎立大王，大王勿疑也。
代王报太后，计犹豫未定。
卜之，兆得大横。占曰： 大横庚庚，余为天王，夏启以光。
代王曰： 寡人固已为王，又何王乎？
卜人曰： 所谓天王者，乃天子也。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowen was the fourth son of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and his mother was Bo Ji.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Chen Xi was executed and the Dai territory was pacified. He made him the Dai king and made his capital Zhongdu.
In the autumn of the seventeenth year of King Dai's reign, Empress Lu passed away, and Zhu Lu planned a coup to seize Liu Han's power.
Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Zhou Bo, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang and others jointly killed the Lu family and discussed the appointment of the acting king Liu Heng as the emperor.
The historical events are recorded in "Book of Han·Gao Hou Ji and Gao Wu Wang Biography".
The ministers sent people to greet the king.
After deliberation, Zhang Wu, the king's lieutenant, said: The ministers of the Han Dynasty are all veteran generals from the time of Emperor Gao. They are familiar with military affairs and well versed in intrigues and tricks. In their hearts, they are not satisfied with their current status. They are just afraid of the majesty of Emperor Gao and Empress Lu.
Now that Zhu Lu has been executed and blood has been spilled in the capital, it is unbelievable to welcome the king to the capital in the name of proclaiming himself emperor.
I hope your Majesty will not go there on the grounds of illness, so as to observe changes in the situation.
Lieutenant Song Chang added: Their comments are wrong.
The Qin Dynasty was in disarray, heroes arose, and there were no less than ten thousand people who wanted to replace the Qin Dynasty and claim the title of emperor in the south. However, in the end, only the Liu family was able to rule the world. People in the world who harbored evil thoughts were desperate. This was one of them.
Emperor Gao made his children kings, and the fiefdoms were intertwined. This became a rock-like core. The world obeyed Liu Han's strength. This was the second one.
The establishment of the Han Dynasty abolished the harshness of the Qin Dynasty, reduced punishments, extended kindness and benefits, and made everyone feel at ease, which won the hearts of the people.
With the majesty of the Empress Dowager Lu, she established Zhu Lu as the three kings and was good at despotic power. However, the Taiwei Zhou Bo entered the Northern Army with a talisman and called on the soldiers to support the Liu family and oppose Zhu Lu. As a result, the Lu family was wiped out.
This shows that Liu Han's regime was given by heaven and could not be changed by a few manpower.
Nowadays, although some ministers want to launch a coup, the people are unwilling to listen to them. Can they achieve their goals by relying on a small number of his party members?
Inside Kyoto, there is the unity of Zhu Xuhou and Dongmuhou, and outside there are the powers of Wu, Chu, Huainan, Langwangya, Qi and Dai.
Nowadays, the only sons of Emperor Gao are the King of Huainan and you, the king. The king lives long, is a sage, benevolent and filial, and is famous all over the world. Therefore, the ministers in the court obey the wishes of the people and want to welcome the king, so the king does not have to worry.
Reporting to the Queen Mother on behalf of the king, it was difficult to make a decision for a while.
Then he asked someone to divine, and he got a great omen. The fortune teller said: Great, Gengen, I am the king of heaven, Xia Qiguang Zong Yaozu.
Dai Wang said: I am already a king, so why do I need to add a king's title?
The diviner said: The so-called king of heaven in the hexagram is the emperor!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是代王乃遣太后弟薄昭见太尉勃，勃等具言所以迎立王者。
昭还报曰： 信矣，无可疑者。
代王笑谓宋昌曰： 果如公言。
乃令宋昌骖乘，张武等六人乘六乘传，诣长安，至高陵止，而使宋昌先之长安观变。
昌至渭桥，丞相已下皆迎。
昌还报，代王乃进至渭桥。
群臣拜谒称臣，代王下拜。
太尉勃进曰： 愿请间。
宋昌曰： 所言公，公言之；所言私，王者无私。
太尉勃乃跪上天子玺。
代王谢曰： 至邸而议之。
闰月己酉，入代邸。
群臣从至，上议曰： 丞相臣平、太尉臣勃、大将军臣武、御史大夫臣苍、宗正臣郢、朱虚侯臣章、东牟侯臣兴居、典客臣揭再拜言大王足下：子弘等皆非孝惠皇帝子，不当奉宗庙。
臣谨请阴安侯、顷王后、琅邪王、列侯、吏二千石议，大王高皇帝子，宜为嗣，愿大王即天子位。
代王曰： 奉高帝宗庙，重事也。
寡人不佞，不足以称。
愿请楚王计宜者，寡人弗敢当。
群臣皆伏，固请。
代王西乡让者三，南乡让者再。
丞相平等皆曰： 臣伏计之，大王奉高祖宗庙最宜称，虽天下诸侯万民皆以为宜。臣等为宗庙、社稷计，不敢忽。愿大王幸听臣等。
臣谨奉天子玺、符再拜上。
代王曰： 宗室、将、相、王、列侯以为莫宜寡人，寡人不敢辞。
遂即天子位。
群臣以次侍。
使太仆婴、东牟侯兴居先清宫，奉天子法驾迎代邸。
皇帝即日夕入未央宫。
夜拜宋昌为卫将军，领南、北军，张武为郎中令，行殿中。
还坐前殿，下诏曰： 制诏丞相、太尉、御史大夫：间者诸吕用事擅权，谋为大逆，欲危刘氏宗庙，赖将、相、列侯、宗室、大臣诛之，皆伏其辜。
translation: 
So King Dai sent Bo Zhao, the younger brother of the Queen Mother, to meet with Taiwei Zhou Bo. Zhou Bo and others reported in detail the true intention of welcoming King Dai.
Bo Zhao reported back to Dai Wang: It is trustworthy and there is nothing to doubt.
The king of Dai smiled and said to Song Chang: "It's just as the teacher said."
So he sent Song Chang to be in charge of driving, and Zhang Wu and six other people were dispatched to Chang'an to report the news. The car stopped at the Mausoleum of Emperor Gao, and Song Chang was sent to Chang'an to observe the situation.
When Song Chang arrived at Weiqiao, officials below the prime minister came to greet him.
Song Chang went to Gaoling to report to King Dai, so King Dai also went to Weiqiao.
The ministers paid homage to the king as ministers, and the king also bowed humbly in return.
Taiwei Zhou Bo came forward and said: Please report to Chen secretly.
Song Chang said: If what the captain is stating is a public matter, please report it in front of all the ministers; if what is being stated is a private matter, the king is selfless.
Taiwei Zhou Bo knelt down and presented the emperor's jade seal.
He said goodbye on behalf of the king: Please come to the palace in Kyoto for further discussion.
On the 29th day of the ninth month, I entered the palace of King Dai.
All the ministers followed and presented a memorial: Prime Minister Chen Ping, Taiwei Minister Zhou Bo, General Chai Wu, Yu Shi Da Fu Chen Zhang Cang, Zong Zheng Chen Liu Ying, Zhu Xuhou Chen Liu Zhang, Dong Mou Hou Chen Liu Xingju, Dian Ke Chen Liu Jie again paid homage to the King and said: Zihong and others are not the sons of Emperor Xiaohui and should not inherit the throne.
I would like to invite Yin'an, Queen Qing, King Langya, the princes, and Li Erqianshi to discuss this matter. The king is the son of Emperor Gao and should inherit. May the king be the emperor.
Dai Wang said: "It is an important matter to enshrine Emperor Gaodi in the ancestral temple."
There are few people and no talent, and they are not enough to take on this responsibility.
I would like to ask the King of Chu, the younger brother of Emperor Gao, to consider a suitable candidate. I really don’t dare to take the position.
All the ministers prostrated themselves on the ground and firmly requested the king's consent.
On behalf of the king, he resigned three times to the west and twice to the south.
Prime Minister Chen Pingping said: I sincerely believe that it is most appropriate for your Majesty to inherit the throne of Emperor Gao. All the princes and people in the world believe that it is a natural and right thing to do. For the sake of the ancestral temple and the country, I do not dare to neglect, and ask your Majesty to obey my request.
I would like to present the emperor's jade seal to you.
Dai Wang said: Since the clan, generals and princes think that I am a suitable successor to the throne, I do not dare to refuse.
So he became the emperor.
The ministers all followed their original posts.
The servants Guan Ying and Dongmou Hou Xingju were sent to clean Weiyang Palace first, and then went to the palace of Dai Wang with the Emperor's guard of honor to greet him.
The emperor entered Weiyang Palace that evening.
That night, Song Chang was appointed as General of the Guard, commanding the Northern and Southern armies, and Zhang Wu was appointed as Lang Zhongling, patrolling the palace.
The emperor sat in the front hall and issued an edict: The Prime Minister, the Taiwei, and the Yushi Dafu: In the past, Lu Zhuan was in charge of power, conspired to usurp the throne, and wanted to harm the Liu family's ancestral temple.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
朕初即位，其赦天下，赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，酺五日。
元年冬十月辛亥，皇帝见于高庙。
遣车骑将军薄昭迎皇太后于代。
诏曰： 前吕产自置为相国，吕禄为上将军，擅遣将军灌婴将兵击齐，欲代刘氏。
婴留荥阳，与诸侯合谋以诛吕氏。
吕产欲为不善，丞相平与太尉勃等谋夺产等军。
朱虚侯章首先捕斩产。
太尉勃身率襄平侯通持节承诏入北军。
典客揭夺吕禄印。
其益封太尉勃邑万户，赐金五千斤。
丞相平、将军婴邑各三千户，金二千斤。
朱虚侯章、襄平侯通邑各二千户，金千斤。
封典客揭为信阳侯，赐金千斤。
十二月，立赵幽王子遂为赵王，徙琅邪王泽为燕王。
吕氏所夺齐、楚地皆归之。尽除收帑相坐律令。
正月，有司请蚤建太子，所以尊宗庙也。
诏曰： 朕既不德，上帝神明未歆飨也，天下人民未有惬志。
今纵不能博求天下贤圣有德之人而嬗天下焉，而曰豫建太子，是重吾不德也。
谓天下何？
其安之。
有司曰： 豫建太子，所以重宗庙、社稷，不忘天下也。
上曰： 楚王，季父也，春秋高，阅天下之义理多矣，明于国家之体。
吴王于朕，兄也；淮南王，弟也：皆秉德以陪朕，岂为不豫哉！
诸侯王、宗室昆弟有功臣，多贤及有德义者，若举有德以陪朕之不能终，是社稷之灵，天下之福也。
translation: 
When I first ascend the throne, I should grant a general amnesty to the world, and reward the men of the world with the rank of nobility, and the women of every hundred households should be given a number of cattle and a stone of wine.
Five days of gathering and drinking are a joy. On the second day of the tenth winter in the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, the emperor met with his ministers at the Gaozu Temple.
Sent Chariot General Bo Zhao to Daidi to welcome the Empress Dowager to Beijing.
The edict said: In the past, Lu Chan proclaimed himself the prime minister, and Lu Lu was the general. He sent General Guan Ying to lead an army to attack in an attempt to replace Liu Han.
General Guan stopped his troops in Xingyang and conspired with the princes to kill the Lu family.
Lu Chan wanted to usurp the throne, so Prime Minister Chen Ping, Lieutenant Zhou Bo and others conspired to seize the Northern Army controlled by Lu Chan.
Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang first captured Lu Chan.
Taiwei Zhou Bo personally led Xiangping Hou Tong to join the Northern Army with the imperial edict.
Dianke Liu Jiezhi seized Lu Lu's seal.
Therefore, he was granted the title of Taiwei Zhou Boyi to ten thousand households and was given five thousand catties of gold.
Prime Minister Chen Ping and General Guanying were granted the title of three thousand households each, and were given two thousand catties of gold.
The Marquis of Zhuxu, Liu Zhang, and the Marquis of Xiangping, Liu Tongyi, were granted the title of two thousand households each, with a thousand catties of gold.
Dian Ke Liu Jie was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxin and was given a thousand catties of gold.
In December, Liu Sui, the son of King You of Zhao, was made King of Zhao, and King Liu Ze of King Ya of Lang was transferred to King of Yan.
The Qi and Chu lands captured by the Lu family were returned to their original owners, and the Qin law was abolished, which stipulated that if one person is guilty, the whole family will be affected.
In the first month of the first month, relevant officials asked Emperor Wen to establish a prince early in order to respect the ancestral temple.
Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: My virtues are shallow, the gods in heaven are not willing to enjoy my sacrifices to them, and the people of the world also think that I am not their ideal emperor.
Today, I cannot seek out the world's sages and virtuous people to succeed the emperor, but I suggest that we should establish a prince early, which makes my bad virtue even worse.
How can this satisfy the expectations of the people in the world for me?
The matter of establishing a prince is postponed.
Relevant officials reported again: The early appointment of the prince was based on the emphasis on the ancestral temple and the country, which proved that the emperor always kept world affairs in mind.
The emperor said: The King of Chu is my uncle. He is old and virtuous, has rich experience and experience, and knows everything about governing the country.
King Wu, King Huainan and I are brothers. They are all virtuous to assist me, haven't they already arranged the successor to the throne?
There are many meritorious officials among the brothers of the princes, kings and clans, and there are many virtuous, benevolent and righteous people. If one of the above-mentioned wise men with noble virtues is selected to succeed me as the emperor who is not qualified for the position, this will be the spirit of the country and the blessing of the world.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今不选举焉，而曰必子，人其以朕为忘贤有德者而专于子，非所以忧天下也。朕甚不取。
有司固请曰： 古者殷、周有国，治安皆且千岁，有天下者莫长焉，用此道也。
立嗣必子，所从来远矣。
高帝始平天下，建诸侯，为帝者太祖。
诸侯王、列侯始受国者亦皆为其国祖。
子孙继嗣，世世不绝，天下之大义也。
故高帝设之以抚海内。
今释宜建而更选于诸侯宗室，非高帝之志也。
更议不宜。
子启最长，敦厚慈仁，请建以为太子。
上乃许之。
因赐天下民当为父后者爵一级。
封将军薄昭为轵侯。
三月，有司请立皇后。皇太后曰： 立太子母窦氏为皇后。
诏曰： 方春和时，草木群生之物皆有以自乐，而吾百姓鳏、寡、孤、独、穷困之人或阽于死亡，而莫之省忧。为悯父母将何如？
其议所以振贷之。
又曰： 老者非帛不暖，非肉不饱。
今岁首，不时使人存问长老，又无布帛酒肉之赐，将何以佐天下子孙孝养其亲？
今闻吏禀当受鬻者，或以陈粟，岂称养老之意哉！
具为令。
有司请令县道，年八十已上，赐米人月一石，肉二十斤，酒五斗。
其九十已上，又赐帛人二匹，絮三斤。
赐物及当禀鬻米者，长吏阅视，丞若尉致。
不满九十，啬夫、令史致。
二千石遣都吏循行，不称者督之。
刑者及有罪耐以上，不用此令。
楚元王交薨。
四月，齐、楚地震，二十九山同日崩，大水溃出。
六月，令郡国无来献。
translation: 
If I do not elect virtuous people today, but say that I must establish a prince, people will think that I have forgotten the virtuous people and only want my son to succeed me. This is not really caring about world affairs, and I really do not want to adopt it.
Relevant officials repeatedly requested: In ancient times, Yin and Zhou conquered the world and enjoyed long-lasting peace and stability for nearly a thousand years. In the past, no one in the world could pass on the throne as long as the Yin and Zhou Dynasties. This is because both Yin and Zhou adopted the method of passing on the crown prince.
The crown prince must be the son of the emperor. This has always been the case in history.
Emperor Gao began to pacify the world, establish princes, and became the ancestor of Emperor Liu Han.
The princes, princes, and princes who began to receive feudal states also became the ancestors of the feudal states.
Succession by descendants from generation to generation is a universal justice.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu established a prince to stabilize the world.
It was not Emperor Gao's original intention to give up on the task of establishing a son as prince today and instead choose him from among the princes and clans.
It would be inappropriate to elect another person.
Prince Qi is the eldest son, kind and generous, so he asks the emperor to make him the crown prince.
The emperor finally agreed.
Therefore, the people of the world should be given the title of nobility as their father's heirs.
General Bo Zhao was granted the title of Marquis of Zhi.
In March, the relevant officials asked for the establishment of a queen, and the Empress Dowager said: Make Dou, the mother of the crown prince, the queen.
Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: When the spring breeze is gentle, flying animals, plants and other things have the joy of revival. However, the widowed, lonely and poor among our people may be struggling on the edge of death without receiving care and warmth. How can we, as parents of the people, feel at ease?
Relief should be discussed.
The edict also said: The old man will not be warm if he does not wear a cotton-padded jacket, and he will not be full if he does not eat meat.
In the early spring of this year, people were often sent to visit the elders. If they were not given some cloth, wine and meat, how could they help the descendants of the world to be filial and support their relatives?
I once heard that some officials gave old millets and rotten rice when distributing pension grains. Can this be said to be implementing the edict of providing pensions for the elderly?
The regulations will now be formulated in detail.
Relevant officials notified all counties and roads that those over eighty years of age would be given one stone of rice, twenty catties of meat, and five measures of wine per month.
For those who are over ninety years old, there will be an additional two pounds of silk and three pounds of catkins per person.
When giving gifts and pensions to elderly people over ninety years old, the county magistrate must personally supervise and inspect them, and the county magistrate or county lieutenant must personally deliver them.
Those who are less than 90 years old will be handed over by agricultural officials and regents.
High-ranking officials should send virtuous officials to patrol and inspect, and those who do not implement the edicts should be investigated and punished.
Elderly persons who have been sentenced and whose crimes will result in a sentence of more than two years are not subject to this order.
Liu Jiao, king of Chu Yuan, passed away.
In April, there was an earthquake in Qi and Chu. On the same day, twenty-nine mountains collapsed and floods surged.
In June, the county was ordered not to present property to the court.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
施惠天下，诸侯、四夷，远近欢洽。
乃修代来功。
诏曰： 方大臣诛诸吕迎朕，朕狐疑，皆止朕，唯中尉宋昌劝朕，朕已得保宗庙。
以尊昌为卫将军，其封昌为壮武侯。
诸从朕六人，官皆至九卿。
又曰： 列侯从高帝入蜀、汉者六十八人益邑各三百户，吏二千石以上从高帝颖川守尊等十人食邑六百户，淮阳守申屠嘉等十人五百户，卫尉足等十人四百户。
封淮南王舅赵兼为周阳侯，齐王舅驷钧为靖郭侯，故常山丞相蔡兼为樊侯。
二年冬十月，丞相陈平薨。
诏曰： 朕闻古者诸侯建国千余，各守其地，以时入贡，民不劳苦，上下欢欣，靡有违德。
今列侯多居长安，邑远，吏卒给输费苦，而列侯亦无由教训其民。
其令列侯之国，为吏及诏所止者，遣太子。
十一月癸卯晦，日有食之。
诏曰： 朕闻之，天生民，为之置君以养治之。
人主不德，布政不均，则天示之灾以戒不治。
乃十一月晦，日有食之，適见于天，灾孰大焉！
朕获保宗庙，以微眇之身托于士民君王之上，天下治乱，在予一人，唯二三执政犹吾股肱也。
朕下不能治育群生，上以累三光之明，其不德大矣。
令至，其悉思朕之过失，及知见之所不及，匄以启告朕。
及举贤良方正能直言极谏者，以匡朕之不逮。
因各敕以职任，务省徭费以便民。
朕既不能远德，故憪然念外人之有非，是以设备未息。
今纵不能罢边屯戍，又饬兵厚卫，其罢卫将军军。
太仆见马遗财足，余皆以给传置。
春正月丁亥，诏曰： 夫农，天下之本也，其开籍田，朕亲率耕，以给宗庙粢盛。
translation: 
The beneficial government spread throughout the world, and the princes and barbarians from far and near were grateful to the emperor for his kindness.
So Quan narrates the contributions of the auxiliary personnel who came to Beijing from generation to generation.
The edict said: When the ministers punished Zhu Lu and made me emperor, I had doubts and often advised me not to leave Dai. Only after Lieutenant Song Chang advised me to live up to public expectations did I decide to inherit the throne.
Song Chang has been conferred the title of General, and now he has been conferred the title of Zhuang Wuhou.
The other six people who followed me to Beijing, including Zhang Wu, were promoted to Jiuqing.
The edict also said: The sixty-eight people who entered the Shu Han from Emperor Gao were each granted an additional 300 households. Senior officials with more than 2,000 shi who once followed the Gao Emperor, such as Yingchuan Shouzun and ten people, were granted a settlement of 600 households, and Huaiyang Shou Shen Tujia and other ten persons were granted a settlement of 500 households. The Weiwei and ten other people granted food to 400 households in the city.
Zhao Jian, the uncle of the king of Huainan, was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang, Si Gou, the uncle of the king of Qi, was granted the title of Marquis of Jingguo, and Cai Qian, the former Prime Minister of Changshan, was granted the title of Marquis of Fan.
In the winter of October of the second year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Prime Minister Chen Ping passed away.
The edict said: I heard that in ancient times, the princes established many kingdoms, each guarding his own territory, and paying tribute to the court on time. The people's taxes and services were not heavy, and the upper and lower classes were harmonious and happy, without violating the wishes of the people.
Nowadays, most of the princes live in Chang'an, which is far away from the feudal towns. The supply and transportation of officials and soldiers is very hard, and the princes have no chance to teach the people of their feudal towns.
Now all the princes are ordered to go to their own fiefdoms. Among them, those who are officials in the court or are allowed to stay in the capital by imperial edict can send their princes to the feudal cities.
November 30th, partial solar eclipse.
The edict said: I have heard that people are born, and heaven sets up monarchs for the people to govern them.
If the monarch has no virtue and his governance is unbalanced, God will send disasters and warnings to warn him that his governance is inappropriate.
And on November 30th, there will be a partial solar eclipse. This is a sign from God that I have made many mistakes!
I can inherit the great power and entrust my humble body to the people, princes and kings. I am the only one who can control the chaos in the world. All ministers are my allies.
I am unable to govern and educate the people, causing the sun, moon and stars to fall out of order. My virtue is very lacking.
After receiving the edict, all the ministers carefully reviewed my faults and problems that I had not yet understood and considered, and prayed that they would not hesitate to tell me.
Please also recommend people who are virtuous and upright and dare to give advice to correct my mistakes.
Therefore, an edict was issued to order all ministers to perform their duties and tasks. The top priority is to reduce provincial taxes to facilitate the people.
I can neither conquer the distant lands with my virtues, nor can I sleep restlessly worrying about the occurrence of foreign invasion, so I dare not relax the border defense equipment.
Even if the border garrison cannot be dismissed today, heavy troops should not be sent to guard Kyoto.
The number of soldiers guarding Kyoto has been greatly reduced. The servants also need to reduce the number of horses. After basically ensuring the needs of the court, the excess will be allocated to the teleportation station.
On the 15th day of the first lunar month in spring, an edict was issued saying: Agriculture is the foundation of the world. A system should be established in which the emperor personally cultivates the fields. I personally lead the people to cultivate the land to supply the meals needed for the ancestral temple sacrifices.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
民谪作县官及贷种食未入、入未备者，皆赦之。
三月，有司请立皇子为诸侯王。
诏曰： 前赵幽王幽死，朕甚怜之，已立其太子遂为赵王。
遂弟辟强及齐悼惠王子朱虚侯章、东牟侯兴居有功，可王。
乃立辟强为河间王，章为城阳王，兴居为济北王。
因立皇子武为代王，参为太原王，揖为梁王。
五月，诏曰： 古之治天下，朝有进善之旌，诽谤之木，所以通治道而来谏者也，今法有诽谤、訞言之罪，是使众臣不敢尽情，而上无由闻过失也。
将何以来远方之贤良？
其除之。
民或祝诅上，以相约而后相谩，吏以为大逆，其有他言，吏又以为诽谤。此细民之愚无知抵死，朕甚不取。
自今以来，有犯此者勿听治。
九月，初与郡守为铜虎符、竹使符。
诏曰： 农，天下之大本也，民所恃以生也，而民或不务本而事末，故生不遂。
朕忧其然，故今兹亲率群臣农以劝之。
其赐天下民今年田租之半。
三年冬十月丁酉晦，日有食之。十一月丁卯晦，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 前日诏遣列侯之国，辞未行。
丞相朕之所重，其为朕率列侯之国。
遂免丞相勃，遣就国。
十二月，太尉颖阴侯灌婴为丞相。罢太尉官，属丞相。
夏四月，城阳王章薨。
淮南王长杀辟阳侯审食其。
五月，匈奴入居北地、河南为寇。上幸甘泉，遣丞相灌婴击匈奴，匈奴去。
发中尉材官属卫将军，军长安。
上自甘泉之高奴，因幸太原，见故群臣，皆赐之。
举功行赏，诸民里赐牛酒。复晋阳、中都民三岁租。
translation: 
Those who are guilty of defaulting on repaying the seeds and grains paid to the county office, or those who are guilty of incomplete payment will be pardoned.
In March, the relevant officials asked the prince to be appointed king of the princes.
The edict said: Previously, King You of Zhao died under house arrest. I sympathized very much and established his prince as King of Zhao.
Then his younger brother Bijiang and Qi Yaohui's princes Zhu Xuhouzhang and Dongmuhou had made great contributions to the throne and could be established as kings.
So Pijiang was made King of Hejian, Liu Zhang was made King of Chengyang, and Xingju was made King of Jibei.
At the same time, the prince Wu was made the acting king, Shen was the king of Taiyuan, and Yi was the king of Liang.
In May, an edict was issued saying: In ancient times, when governing the world, there were banners for promoting good words and pillars for criticism in front of the imperial court, in order to make the upper and lower circles accessible and widen the way for speech. Today's laws include the crime of "libel", which makes the ministers dare not tell everything they know, and the emperor will not be able to hear the fault.
How can we allow virtuous people from far away to criticize the government?
should be abolished.
The people sometimes cursed the king, invited each other at first and then deceived each other. This kind of behavior only had criminal motives but no criminal actions. The officials regarded it as treason. If there were other remarks, the officials also charged them with slander. This was a manifestation of the ignorance of the common people. I think it is very inappropriate to commit a capital crime because of ignorance of the law.
From now on, attempted crimes of this kind need not be prosecuted.
In September, copper tiger talismans and bamboo messenger talismans began to be issued to county guards.
Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: Agriculture is the foundation of the world and what the people rely on for survival. If the people do not seriously engage in the foundation and go to business, then there will be a shortage of food and clothing.
I am very worried about this, so today I personally led the ministers to farm to encourage them.
This year, half of the land rent payable by the people will be exempted as a reward.
On October 30th of the third year of winter, there was a partial solar eclipse. On November 30th, there was another partial eclipse of the sun.
The imperial edict said: In the past, there was an imperial edict to send all the princes back to their feudal states, but they refused and failed to do so.
The Prime Minister is the one I rely on most, and I hope to take the lead and set an example to return to my own kingdom.
So Zhou Bo was dismissed from his post as prime minister and sent back to his feudal state.
In December, the Taiwei Yingyin Marquis Guan Ying was granted the title of Prime Minister. He was relieved of the position of Taiwei and subordinated to the Prime Minister.
In April of summer, Liu Zhang, king of Chengyang, passed away.
Liu Chang, the king of Huainan, killed the Marquis of Piyang and tried to eat him.
In May, the Huns settled in the north and Henan and carried out plunder. The emperor came to Ganquan and sent Prime Minister Guan Ying to fight back against the Huns. The Huns went north.
The officials who maintained law and order in the palace were transferred to General Wei to guard Chang'an and Kyoto.
The emperor traveled from Ganquan to Gaonu, and then to Taiyuan, where he met with officials from the past and received rewards.
In terms of rewards based on merit, cattle and wine were given according to the people, and the people of Jinyang and Zhongdu were exempted from taxes for three years.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
留游太原十余日。
济北王兴居闻帝之代欲自击匈奴，乃反，发兵欲袭荥阳。
于是诏罢丞相兵，以棘蒲侯柴武为大将军，将四将军十万众击之。
祁侯缯贺为将军，军荥阳。
秋七月，上自太原至长安。诏曰： 济北王背德反上，诖误吏民，为大逆。
济北吏民，兵未至先自定及以军、城邑降者，皆赦之，复官爵。
与王兴居居，去来者，亦赦之。
八月，虏济北王兴居，自杀。
赦诸与兴居反者。
四年冬十二月，丞相灌婴薨。
夏五月，复诸刘有属籍，家无所与。
赐诸侯王子邑各二千户。
秋九月，封齐悼惠王子七人为列侯。
绛侯周勃有罪，逮诣廷尉诏狱。
作顾成庙。
五月春二月，地震。
夏四月，除盗铸钱令。
更造四铢钱。
六年冬十月，桃、李华。
十一月，淮南王长谋反，废迁蜀严道，死雍。
七年冬十月，令列侯太夫人、夫人、诸侯王子及吏二千石无得擅征捕。
夏四月，赦天下。
六月癸酉，未央宫东阙罘罳灾。
八年夏，封淮南厉王长子四人为列侯。
有长星出于东方。
九年春，大旱。
十年冬，行幸甘泉。
将军薄昭死。
十一年冬十一月，行幸代。
春正月，上自代还。
夏六月，梁王揖薨。
匈奴寇狄道。
十二年冬十二月，河决东郡。
春正月，赐诸侯王女邑各二千户。
二月，出孝惠皇帝后宫美人，令得嫁。
三月，除关，无用传。
诏曰： 道民之路，在于务本。
translation: 
Stayed and visited Taiyuan for more than ten days.
When King Xingju of Jibei learned that the emperor had gone to Dai and planned to conquer the Xiongnu himself, he took advantage of the fact that there was no master in the court and launched a rebellion, dispatching troops and horses to attack Xingyang.
So he issued an edict to remove the prime minister Guan Ying from military power, and appointed Chai Wu, Marquis of Ji Pu, as the general. He led four brave generals and 100,000 troops to suppress the rebels.
Qihou Zanhe was made a general and sent reinforcements to Xingyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor went from Taiyuan to Chang'an and issued an edict saying: The king of Jibei betrayed the court and harmed the officials and people, and he was the chief culprit.
The officials and people in Jibei who planned to submit to the imperial court before the official troops arrived, or who submitted their army, city, or city to the official troops, would be pardoned and allowed to remain in office.
Those who are related to Wang Xingju of Jibei will also be pardoned.
In August, he captured Xingju, the king of Jibei, and Xingju committed suicide.
Those who participated in the Xingju rebellion were pardoned.
In the winter of December of the fourth year of Emperor Wen's reign, Prime Minister Guan Ying passed away.
In the fifth month of summer, the Liu family of the same clan as Liu Han was exempted from taxes and servitude, and nothing was given to his family.
Grant the princes and princes food and towns to each of 2,000 households.
In the ninth month of autumn, seven princes named Hui Hui of Qi were made marquises.
Jianghou Zhou Bo was guilty and was imprisoned in Tianlao after his arrest.
The small and humble Gu Cheng Temple was built.
In the spring and February of the fifth year, there was an earthquake.
In April of summer, the order for stealing money was abolished and private coining was allowed.
The four-baht coin was re-minted.
In the winter of the sixth year, in October, the peaches and plums bloomed.
In November, the king of Huainan rebelled, deposed the throne and was exiled to Yandao, Shu. He died in Yongdi on the way.
In the winter and tenth month of the seventh year, it was ordered that the wives, wives, princes and officials of the princes and officials should not be searched without permission.
In the fourth month of summer, the world is forgiven.
On June 2, the Quequ Pavilion on the east side of Weiyang Palace caught fire.
In the summer of the eighth year, the four sons of King Li of Huainan were granted the title of marquis.
There is a long comet out of the east.
In the spring of the ninth year, there was a severe drought.
In the winter of ten years, I patrolled to Ganquan.
General Bo Zhao passed away.
In the winter of the eleventh year, in November, I came to Dai.
In the first month of spring, the emperor returned to the capital from Dai.
In June of Xia, King Liang Yi passed away.
The Huns invaded Didao.
In the winter of the twelfth year in December, the Yellow River broke out in Dongjun.
In the first month of spring, the princes, princes and daughters were given 2,000 households each in Tangmuyi.
In February, Emperor Xiaohui dismissed Gong'e from the harem and could get married on her own.
In March, the law requiring the presentation of documents for entry and exit was abolished.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The way to guide the people is to grasp the fundamentals of agriculture.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
朕亲率天下农，十年于今，而野不加辟。岁一不登，民有饥色，是从事焉尚寡，而吏未加务也。
吾诏书数下，岁劝民种树，而功未兴，是吏奉吾诏不勤，而劝民不明也。
且吾农民甚苦，而吏莫之省，将何以劝焉？其赐农民今年租税之半。
又曰： 孝悌，天下之大顺也；力田，为生之本也；三老，众民之师也；廉吏，民之表也。
朕甚嘉此二三大夫之行。
今万家之县，云无应令，岂实人情？
是吏举贤之道未备也。
其遣谒者劳赐三老、孝者帛，人五匹；悌者、力田二匹；廉吏二百石以上率百石者三匹。
及问民所不便安，而以户口率置三老、孝、悌、力田常员，令各率其意以道民焉。
十三年春二月甲寅，诏曰： 朕亲率天下农耕以供粢盛，皇后亲桑以奉祭服，其具礼仪。
夏，除秘祝，语在《郊祀志》。
五月，除肉刑法，语在《刑法志》。
六月，诏曰： 农，天下之本，务莫大焉。
今廑身从事，而有租税之赋，是谓本末者无以异也，其于劝农之道未备。
其除田之租税。
赐天下孤寡布、帛、絮各有数。
十四年冬，匈奴寇边，杀北地都尉卬。
遣三将军军陇西、北地、上郡，中尉周舍为卫将军，郎中令张武为车骑将军，军渭北，车千乘，骑卒十万人。
上亲劳军，勒兵，申教令，赐吏卒。
自欲征匈奴，群臣谏，不听。
皇太后固要上，乃止。
于是以东阳侯张相如为大将军，建成侯董赫、内史栾布皆为将军，击匈奴，匈奴走。
translation: 
It has been ten years since I personally farmed to encourage farming, but the fields have not yet been fully cultivated. Every time the weather is bad, the people are starving. This is because there are not enough people engaged in agriculture and the officials everywhere fail to take agriculture seriously.
I have issued edicts many times, urging the people to plant more trees every year, but with little effect. This is also because the local officials did not implement my edicts seriously, and they did not take clear measures to publicize and mobilize the people.
In addition, our farmers are burdened with heavy burdens and local officials are indifferent. How can this increase farmers' enthusiasm for production? To this end, half of the taxes payable by farmers will be exempted this year.
The edict also said: Respecting the old and loving the young is the noblest social custom.
Working hard is the most important foundation of life. The three elders are the teachers of the people, and honest officials are the role models for the people.
I especially admire the conduct of filial piety, Li Tian, ​​the three elders, and honest officials. Today, in a county with tens of thousands of families, it is said that no one can answer the order of inspection. How can it be consistent with the facts?
This reflects that the measures taken by local officials to promote talents are not effective enough.
Special envoys are now sent to express condolences to the three elders, and each person will be rewarded with five pieces of silk. Those who love young people and those who work hard will be rewarded with two pieces of silk. Corrupt officials will be rewarded with three pieces for every one hundred pieces of silk above two hundred stone.
In order to constantly understand the situation of the people who are uneasy or inconvenient in agriculture, three elders, filial piety, and field managers are set up according to their household registrations, so that they can deeply understand the meaning of the edict and educate the people.
On February 16, the spring of the thirteenth year, an edict was issued saying: I personally led people to carry out farming to promote the development of food production. The queen personally carried out sericulture for the ancestral temple's sacrificial needs, and established a ritual system for mulberry farming.
In the Xia Dynasty, the official of secret blessing was abolished. The matter is recorded in "Jiao Si Zhi".
In May, the criminal law was abolished. The matter is in "Criminal Law Chronicles".
In June, an edict was issued saying: Agriculture is the foundation of the world and should be given special attention.
Today, farmers work hard, but they share the same tax as merchants. This is indistinguishable, and is inconsistent with the principle of rewarding farming.
Farmland rent tax is now exempted.
Give some cloth and silk to the lonely and widowed people in the world.
In the winter of the fourteenth year, the Xiongnu harassed the border and killed the northern captain Sun Ji.
The emperor sent three generals to guard Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun. Lieutenant Zhou She was the guard general, and Langzhong Lingwu was the chariot and cavalry general. They commanded the army in Weibei, with thousands of chariots and 100,000 cavalry.
The emperor personally labored the troops, conducted inspections, affirmed religious orders, and rewarded the soldiers.
The emperor planned to conquer the Xiongnu himself, but the officials refused to listen to his advice.
The Empress Dowager earnestly requested the Emperor not to risk his own life, and the Emperor gave up.
So Zhang Xiangru, the Marquis of Dongyang, was appointed as the general, and Dong He, the Marquis of Jiancheng, and Luan Bu, the Nei Shi, were appointed as generals to attack the Huns, but the Huns retreated.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
春，诏曰： 朕获执牺牲、珪币以事上帝宗庙，十四年于今。
历日弥长，以不敏不明而久抚临天下，朕甚自愧。
其广增诸祀坛场、珪币。
昔先王远施不求其报，望祀不祈其福，右贤左戚，先民后己，至明之极也。
今吾闻祠官祝釐，皆归福于朕躬，不为百姓，朕甚愧之。
夫以朕之不德，而专乡独美其福，百姓不与焉，是重吾不德也。
其令祠官致敬，无有所祈。
十五年春，黄龙见于成纪。
上乃下诏议郊祀。
公孙臣明服色，新垣平设五庙，语在《郊祀志》。
夏四月，上幸雍，始郊见五帝，赦天下。修名山大川尝祀而绝者，有司以岁时致礼。
九月，诏诸侯王、公卿、郡守举贤良能直言极谏者，上亲策之，傅纳以言，语在《晁错传》。
十六年夏四月，上郊祀五帝于渭阳。
五月，立齐悼惠王子六人、淮南厉王子三人皆为王。
秋九月，得玉杯，刻曰 人主延寿 。
令天下大酺，明年改元。
后元年冬十月，新垣平诈觉，谋反，夷三族。
春三月，孝惠皇后张氏薨。
诏曰： 间者数年比不登，又有水旱疾疫之灾，朕甚忧之。
愚而不明，未达其咎。
意者朕之政有所失而行有过与？
乃天道有不顺，地利或不得，人事多失和，鬼神废不享与？
何以致此？
将百官之奉养或费，无用之事或多与？
何其民食之寡乏也！
夫度田非益寡，而计民未加益，以口量地，其于古犹有余，而食之甚不足，者其咎安在？
无乃百姓之从事于末以害农者蕃，为酒醪以靡谷者多，六畜之食焉者众与？
细大之义，吾未能得其中。
translation: 
In the spring, an edict was issued saying: It has been fourteen years since I was able to offer sacrifices of Gui coins to the ancestral temple of God.
I have been in power for a long time and have ruled the world for a long time with someone who has done nothing. I feel deeply ashamed.
Only by expanding the scale of sacrifices and increasing the accuracy of sacrifices can we thank the gods.
In the past, the late kings showed kindness to others without asking others to repay them, offered sacrifices devoutly without praying for personal well-being, favored the virtuous and neglected relatives, and put the people before themselves. This was truly extremely wise.
Now that I hear the blessings from the ancestral officials, I hope that blessings will be concentrated on me instead of praying for the people, which makes me feel even more guilty.
As an immoral person like me, I only pursue personal happiness instead of sharing it with the people. This only increases my fault.
I now order the temple officials to pay tribute to the gods and not to pray for me personally.
In the spring of the fifteenth year, Huanglong appeared in Chengji.
The emperor issued an edict to discuss the matter of suburban sacrifice.
Gongsunchen clarified the various colors of clothing, and established a temple for the Five Emperors in Xinyuanping. All are recorded in "Jiao Si Zhi".
In the fourth month of summer, the emperor drove to Yongdi to conduct suburban sacrifices to worship the Five Emperors, to grant amnesty to the world, and to resume the sacrifices that had been cut off in famous mountains and rivers. The officials in charge carried out sacrifices according to the prescribed seasons.
In September, an edict was issued to all the princes, princes, ministers and county governors to recommend virtuous people who could speak out and give advice. The emperor personally asked for advice and adopted their true knowledge and insights. The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Chao Cuo".
In the summer and April of the 16th year, the emperor worshiped the five emperors in Weiyang.
In May, the six princes of Qi Youhui and the three princes of Huainan Li were made kings.
In the ninth month of autumn, I got a jade cup with four characters engraved on it: "the master prolongs his life" and ordered the world to drink happily.
It will be changed to Yuan next year.
In the winter and tenth month of the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, Xinyuan Ping was discovered for defrauding the emperor, and rebelled against him, and the three clans were executed.
In March of spring, Queen Xiaohui Zhang passed away.
Issued an edict: I am deeply worried about the frequent harvest failures and frequent floods, droughts, and epidemics in the past few years.
I am stupid and ignorant, and I still don’t know why.
Is it because I have made mistakes in my political affairs and have shortcomings in my behavior?
Or is there something wrong with the way of heaven, the right land is hard to come by, there are many conflicts among people, and the ghosts and gods don’t want to enjoy the sacrifice?
What is the reason?
Is it because officials’ salaries are too high and they do too many things that waste money and people?
Why is there such a shortage of food?
The measured cultivated land has not decreased, and the counted population has not increased much. According to the average population, the cultivated land is more than in ancient times, but food is extremely insufficient. What is the source of the mistake?
Is it because people abandon agriculture and engage in business, such as making large quantities of wine and wasting food, or raising too many livestock and consuming food, thus seriously damaging agriculture?
I've tried to figure it out from all angles, both small and large, but I haven't been able to find out the crux.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其与丞相、列侯、吏二千石、博士议之，有可以佐百姓者，率意远思，无有所隐也。
二年夏，行幸雍棫阳宫。
六月，代王参薨。
匈奴和亲。
诏曰： 朕既不明，不能远德，使方外之国或不宁息。
夫四荒之外不安其生，封圻之内勤劳不处，二者之咎，皆自于朕之德薄而不能达远也。
间者累年，匈奴并暴边境，多杀吏民，边臣兵吏又不能谕其内志，以重吾不德。
夫久结难连兵，中外之国将何以自宁？
今朕夙兴夜寐，勤劳天下，忧苦万民，为之恻怛不安，未尝一日忘于心，故遣使者冠盖相望，结彻于道，以谕朕志于单于。
今单于反古之道，计社稷之安，便万民之利，新与朕俱弃细过，偕之大道，结兄弟之义，以全天下元元之民。
和亲以定，始于今年。
三年春二月，行幸代。
四年夏四月丙寅晦，日有蚀之。五月，赦天下。
免官奴婢为庶人。
行幸雍。
五年春正月，行幸陇西。
三月，行幸雍。秋七月，行幸代。
六年冬，匈奴三万骑入上郡，三万骑入云中。
以中大夫令免为车骑将军，屯飞狐；故楚相苏意为将军，屯句注；将军张武屯北地；河内太守周亚夫为将军，次细柳；宗正刘礼为将军，次霸上；祝兹侯徐厉为将军，次棘门，以备胡。
夏四月，大旱，蝗。
令诸侯无人贡，弛山泽，减诸服御，损郎吏员，发仓庚以振民，民得卖爵。
七年夏，六月己亥，帝崩于未央宫。
遗诏曰： 朕闻之：盖天下万物之萌生，靡不有死。
死者天地之理，物之自然，奚可甚哀！
translation: 
Now I am willing to brainstorm with the prime minister, the princes, the officials, and the doctors. Whatever can be helpful to the people, whether they have occasional feelings or mature considerations, I can talk about it endlessly.
In the summer of the second year, the emperor visited Yongmu or Yang Palace.
In June, Dai Wangshen died of illness.
Establish friendly and good relations with the Huns.
The emperor issued an edict saying: I am not a sage and wise king, and I cannot be virtuous enough to convince people from afar, causing repeated intrusions from neighboring countries.
Recently, the soldiers and civilians on the border have been uneasy about their lives, and within the capital, conquests have been running endlessly. The losses in these two areas are due to my poor virtue and my inability to convince those far away.
In the past few years, the Xiongnu have continued to raid the border and killed many border officials and people. However, the border officials were unable to inform them of our intention to live in friendship with them, which further aggravated my fault of being unvirtuous.
With this long-term war and disaster, how will China and foreign countries maintain their own tranquility?
Recently I get up early and go to bed late to work on state affairs and worry about the suffering of all the people.
The mental pain and uneasiness will never be forgotten for a day. Therefore, I sent diplomatic envoys to come and go frequently to convey my friendly wishes to King Shanyu. Today, the King of the Huns has restored the tradition of harmonious coexistence in the past. Considering the stability of the two countries' communities and the convenience of the two peoples, he is willing to forget the past with me, build good-neighborly relations with me, and form a brotherly country to satisfy the wishes of the Chinese and foreign peoples.
The friendly and good-neighborly relations between the two countries have been established starting this year.
In the spring and February of the third year, the emperor came to Yukiyo.
In the summer of the fourth year, on April 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse. In May, the world is forgiven.
The servants of the officials were exempted and made civilians.
Visiting Yongdi.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, he patrolled to Longxi.
In March, I arrived at Yong, and in autumn in July, I was lucky enough to arrive at Dai.
In the winter of the sixth year, 30,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Shangjun, and 30,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Yunzhong.
When the imperial court was appointed, the imperial minister ordered him to garrison the chariot and cavalry generals at Feihu, the former Chu Prime Minister Su Yi garrisoned the generals, Zhang Wu garrisoned the north, the prefect of Hanoi Zhou Yafu garrisoned the generals Xiliu, Zongzheng Liu Li garrisoned the generals Bashang, Zhu Gaohou Xu Liguo general garrisoned the Thorn Gate to guard against the barbarians.
In April of summer, there was severe drought and locust plague.
The princes were ordered not to pay tribute to the court, the ban on mining in the mountains and rivers was lifted, a number of public expenditures were reduced, redundant personnel were reduced, granaries in various places were opened to provide relief to the victims, and those with noble rank could sell their titles.
On the first day of June in the seventh year of summer, Emperor Wen died in Weiyang Palace.
He left an edict and said: I have heard that all things in the world will die after their birth.
Death is the common law of heaven and earth, the natural law of things, so why mourn for it!


Chunk 10: 
original: 
当今之世，咸嘉生而恶死，厚葬以破业，重服以伤生，吾甚不取。
且朕既不德，无以佐百姓。今崩，又使重服久临，以罹寒暑之数，哀人父子；伤长老之志，损其饮食，绝鬼神之祭祀，以重吾不德，谓天下何！
朕获保宗庙，以眇眇之身托于天下君王之上，二十有余年矣。
赖天之灵。社稷之福，方内安宁，靡有兵革。
朕既不敏，常畏过行，以羞先帝之遗德；惟年之久长，惧于不终。
今乃幸以天年得复供养于高庙，朕之不明与嘉之，其奚哀念之有！
其令天下吏民，令到出临三日，皆释服。
无禁取妇、嫁女、祠祀、饮酒、食肉。
自当给丧事服临者，皆无践。绖带无过三寸。
无布车及兵器。无发民哭临宫殿中。
殿中当临者，皆以旦夕各十五举音，礼皆罢。
非旦夕临时，禁无得擅哭临。
以下，服大红十五日，小红十四日，纤七日，释服。
它不在令中者，皆以此令比类从事。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
霸陵山川因其故，无有所改。
归夫人以下至少使。
令中尉亚夫为车骑将军，属国悍为将屯将军，郎中令张武为复士将军，发近县卒万六千人，发内史卒万五千人，臧郭、穿、复土属将军武。
赐诸侯王以下至孝悌、力田金、钱、帛各有数。
乙巳，葬霸陵。
赞曰：孝文皇帝即位二十三年，宫室、苑囿、车骑、服御无所增益。
有不便，辄弛以利民。
尝欲作露台，召匠计之，直百金。
translation: 
In today's world, everyone loves life but hates death. They give rich burials to the point of wasting wealth and heavy service to the point of harming people's livelihood. I strongly disagree.
What's more, my virtues are shallow and I fail to bring benefits to the people. After my death, I held a long and grand condolence event, causing the mourners to suffer the torture of funeral ceremonies in the cold and heat, and let other people's children mourn for me. , it will make other people's elders feel sad; destroy other ghosts and gods' sacrifices to enrich my sacrifices, which will make other ghosts and gods hungry, which will increase my sins. How can I explain to the world!
It has been twenty-three years since I inherited the throne and entrusted my humble body to the kings of the world.
Relying on the power of God and the blessings of the country, the world is peaceful and there is no war.
I am dull by nature, and I am always afraid that I will make mistakes in my words and deeds, thereby tarnishing the late emperor's glorious imperial virtues; and the longer I reign, the more I fear that I will not be able to start well and end well.
Today, I am fortunate enough to die a natural death and be able to be worshiped in Liu Han's ancestral temple. This is really the greatest encouragement to me, a weak-minded person. There is nothing to mourn for!
Officials and people all over the world can be ordered to stop mourning activities three days after receiving the mourning order.
Drinking and eating meat during weddings and sacrifices during the national mourning period shall not be prohibited.
Anyone who must attend a funeral should not wear a lot of linen and mourning. The width of mourning on the head and waist should not be more than three inches.
Do not use cloth to cover the hearse and send Yulin troops to protect the spirit. Do not send people to the palace to mourn the spirit.
Those in the imperial court who should attend funerals can only weep and mourn in the morning and evening and during great ceremonies. Stop when the ceremony is over.
It is forbidden to cry without permission, either in the morning or evening or during a funeral.
After being placed in the coffin, the mourning clothes were worn for fifteen days, the minor ones for fourteen days, and the fine cloth clothes for seven days. After thirty-six days, all mourning clothes were released.
Other relevant matters not mentioned in the order shall be deduced from this order.
Announce it to the world so that my intentions are known.
Ba Lingchuan Mountain should be built according to its original appearance, and no new tombs should be built.
Everyone from the palace ladies to the following were sent home.
The lieutenant Zhou Yafu was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, the subordinate Guohan was appointed as the general of generals and generals, and the doctor ordered Zhang Wu to be the general of restoring the mausoleum. Sixteen thousand soldiers from nearby counties and 15,000 internal soldiers were recruited, and handed over to General Zhang Wu for digging tombs and backfilling.
Give a certain amount of money and silk to each person from the prince level to those who are filial and loyal to Litian.
On the seventh day of June, he was buried in Ba Ling.
Ban Gu commented: Emperor Xiaowen reigned for twenty-three years, and there were no more chariots and cavalry uniforms in the palace and gardens.
When the people feel inconvenienced, prohibitions are often relaxed to benefit the people.
He once wanted to build a terrace to tell the time, and he called a craftsman to estimate the cost, which would cost a hundred gold.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
上曰： 百金，中人十家之产也。
吾奉先帝宫室，常恐羞之，何以台为！
身衣弋绨，所幸慎夫人衣不曳地，帷帐无文绣，以示敦朴，为天下先。
治霸陵，皆瓦器，不得以金、银、铜、锡为饰，因其山，不起坟。
南越尉佗自立为帝，召贵佗兄弟，以德怀之，佗遂称臣。
与匈奴结和亲，后而背约入盗，令边备守，不发兵深入，恐烦百姓。
吴王诈病不朝，赐以几杖。群臣袁盎等谏说虽切，常假借纳用焉。
张武等受赂金钱，觉，更加赏赐，以愧其心。
专务以德化民，是以海内殷富，兴于礼义，断狱数百，几致刑措。呜呼，仁哉！
translation: 
Emperor Wen said: One hundred gold is the property of ten households of a middle-class family.
I continue to guard the palace of the late emperor, and I am always afraid that it will be stained. Why build a terrace?
Wearing black silk clothes, the beloved Mrs. Shen's clothes are not long enough to touch the floor, and her curtains are not embroidered to show her simplicity and set an example for the world.
When building Ba's mausoleum, all earthenware vessels are used, and gold, silver, copper, and tin are not allowed to be decorated. Because the mausoleum rises from the mountain, no other tombs are chosen.
Wei Tuo of Nanyue proclaimed himself emperor. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty honored Wei Tuo's brothers and inspired them with virtue and righteousness, and Tuo proclaimed himself a minister again.
He became friendly with the Xiongnu, but soon the Xiongnu broke the treaty and invaded. Emperor Wen only ordered the border troops to strengthen defense and did not send troops to counterattack the territory, fearing that it would increase the burden on the people.
King Wu falsely claimed that he was ill and refused to go to court, so Emperor Wen gave him a few sticks to express his condolences. Although the ministers Yuan Ang and others tried their best to advise him not to be deceived by King Wu, Emperor Wen still gave a few sticks to King Wu for use.
Zhang Wu and others took bribes and money. When they found out, they rewarded them even more, making them feel ashamed and reflect on themselves.
Emperor Wen's mission was to transform the people with virtue. As a result, the world was prosperous and the trend of etiquette and justice was greatly promoted. Only a few hundred people were imprisoned, and the punishment was almost unnecessary. Alas, the benevolent emperor!


