Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔武王伐纣，迁九鼎于雒邑，伯夷、叔齐薄之，饿死于首阳，不食其禄，周犹称盛德焉。
然孔子贤此二人，以为 不降其志，不辱其身 也。
而《孟子》亦云： 闻伯夷之风者，贪夫廉，懦夫有立志 ； 奋乎百世之上，百世之下莫不兴起，非贤人而能若是乎！
汉兴有园公、绮里季、夏黄公，甪里先生，此四人者，当秦之世，避而入商雒深山，以待天下之定也。
自高祖闻而召之，不至。
其后吕后用留侯计，使皇太子卑辞束帛致礼，安车迎而致之。
四人既至，从太子见，高祖客而敬焉，太子得以为重，遂用自安。
语在《留侯传》。
其后谷口有郑子真，蜀有严君平，皆修身自保，非其服弗服，非其食弗食。
成帝时，元舅大将军王凤以礼聘子真，子真遂不亻出而终。
translation: 
At that time, King Wu of Zhou attacked King Zhou of Shang, destroyed the Shang Dynasty, and moved the Nine Tripods, which symbolized state power, from the Shang capital to Luoyi. Boyi and Shuqi believed that King Wu was unfaithful and unfilial, so they ate Zhou millet in shame and starved to death in Shouyang Mountain. Even the people of Zhou praised them for their noble moral character.
Confucius thought the two of them were virtuous and praised them for not changing their ambitions and not allowing themselves to be humiliated.
Mencius also said: Hearing Boyi's demeanor is enough to make greedy people honest and cowardly people to establish their ambitions; to inspire behavior before a hundred generations, everyone after a hundred generations will be deeply inspired. Who can do this if he is not a sage?
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, there were Yuan Gong, Qili Ji, Xia Huang Gong and Mr. Jiao Li. When the Qin Dynasty ruled the world, these four people fled to the depths of Shangluo Mountain and waited for the world to be peaceful.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty heard about it and summoned them, but they did not come.
Later, Empress Lu adopted the strategy of leaving Zhang Liang behind, and asked the crown prince to bring silk fabrics, bow down and greet him with humility, and use a small car to welcome him to her side to assist her.
After the four arrived, they followed the prince to see Gaozu. Gaozu respected them and treated them as honored guests. From this, the prince was taken seriously and his position was stabilized.
This incident is recorded in detail in "The Biography of Liuhou".
Later, there was Zheng Zizhen in the mouth of the valley, and there was a strict gentleman in Shu. They were able to cultivate themselves and respect themselves, not wearing what they shouldn't wear, and not eating what they shouldn't eat.
When Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty was in power, his uncle and general Wang Feng recruited Zizhen with courtesy, but Zizhen did not accept the call and ended up not yielding.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
君平卜筮于成都市，以为： 卜筮者贱业，而可以惠众人。
有邪恶非正之问，则依蓍龟为言利害。
与人子言依于孝，与人弟言依于顺，与人臣言依于忠，各因势导之以善，从吾言者，已过半矣。
裁日阅数人，得百钱足自养，财闭肆下帘而授《老子》。
博览亡不通，依老子、严周之指著书十余万言。
杨雄少时从游学，以而仕京师显名，数为朝廷在位贤者称君平德。
杜陵李强素善雄，久之为益州牧，喜谓雄曰： 吾真得严君平矣。 雄曰： 君备礼以待之，彼人可见而不可得诎也。
强心以为不然。
及至蜀，致礼与相见，卒不敢言以为从事，乃叹曰： 杨子云诚知人！
君平年九十余，遂以其业终，蜀人爱敬，至今称焉。
及雄著书言当世士，称此二人。
translation: 
A gentleman was doing divination in the Chengdu market. He thought: Although divination is a humble profession, it can benefit everyone.
If someone inquires about something evil or unfair, tell him the pros and cons according to the yarrow and the shell of a tortoise.
The divination for a son is based on the principles of filial piety; the divination for a younger brother is based on the principle of obedience; the divination for a minister is based on the idea of ​​loyalty to the king. In this way, we can take advantage of the situation and guide different people towards the good side. More than half of the people obey my words.
He only receives a few people every day. When he can earn a hundred yuan to survive, he closes the stall and teaches "Laozi" at home.
He also read a lot of various books and became proficient in them all. According to the theories of Laozi and Zhuangzhou, he wrote more than 100,000 words of books.
Yang Xiong studied with him when he was young, and later became an official in the capital and became famous. He repeatedly praised Yan Junping's conduct to the virtuous officials in the court.
Li Qiang, a native of Duling, had always been very good with Yang Xiong. Later he became an official and became a shepherd in Yizhou. He happily said to Yang Xiong: Now I really want to get King Yan Zhou. Hexiong said: You have to treat him with courtesy. He is a person who can be seen and cannot be used by others.
Li Qiang disagreed in his heart.
After he took office in Shu, he met Junping with courtesy, but he still dared not bring up the matter of calling him as an official, so he sighed: "Yang Ziyun really understands people!"
Yan Junping lived to be more than ninety years old, and he continued to work on divination and fortune-telling until his death. People in Shu loved and respected him, and they still praise him to this day.
Later, Yang Xiong wrote a book about the people of the world, praising these two people in particular.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其论曰： 或问：君子疾没世而名不称，盍势诸名卿可几？
曰：君子德名为几。
梁、齐、楚、赵之君非不富且贵也，恶虖成其名！
谷口郑子真不诎其志，耕于岩石之下，名震于京师，岂其卿？
岂其卿？
楚两龚之洁，其清矣乎！
蜀严湛冥，不作苟见，不治苟得，久幽而不改其操，虽随、和何以加诸？
举兹以旃，不亦宝乎！
自园公、绮里季、夏黄公、甪里先生、郑子真、严君平皆未尝仕，然其风声足以激贪厉俗，近古之逸民也。
若王吉、贡禹，两龚之属，皆以礼让进退云。
王吉字子阳，琅邪皋虞人也。
少好学明经，以郡吏举孝廉为郎，补若卢右丞，迁云阳令。
举贤良为昌邑中尉，而王好游猎，驱驰国中，动作亡节，吉上疏谏，曰：
translation: 
He commented: There is a world: a gentleman is afraid that he will live his whole life without a name, so why not use the power of a famous minister to achieve his name?
I believe that if a gentleman accumulates his own virtues, his reputation will be established.
Liang, Qi, Chu, Zhao and other princes and kings are not without wealth and honor, but what do they use to achieve their reputation?
Gu Zhengzi really persevered in his ambition and worked under the rocks, but his reputation spread throughout the capital. Is it because he was a public official?
Is it because he is a minister?
The two gongs in the Chu land are white and clean, and they have the name of Qingming!
The strict gentleman of Shu County is deep and has no desires. He does not seek favors for sexual relations, does not engage in the career of seeking profit, and lives in seclusion for a long time without changing his moral integrity. Even if it is the pearl of Suihou or the jade of He family, how can it be compared with it?
If this person is raised and used, isn’t he also a treasure of the country?
Yuan Gong, Qili Ji, Xia Huang Gong, Mr. Jiao Li, Zheng Zizhen, and Yan Junping were not officials. However, their demeanor and reputation were enough to deter greed and inspire the world. They were people who lived in seclusion in modern times.
For example, Wang Ji, Gong Yu, and Liang Gong all knew how to be courteous and courteous when going out to serve and when they retired.
Wang Ji, courtesy name Ziyang, was born in Langxie, Gao and Yu.
He was eager to learn when he was young and was proficient in classics. He first served as a county official. He was elected as a Lang due to his filial piety and integrity, filling the position of Lu Youcheng, and later he was appointed as the Yunyang County Magistrate.
Ju Xianliang was appointed as the lieutenant of Changyi. The king of Changyi liked hunting and often drove horses galloping in the country. His behavior was uncontrolled. Wang Ji therefore admonished the minister and said:


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻古者师日行三十里，吉行五十里，《诗》云： 匪风发兮，匪车揭兮，顾瞻周道，中心怛兮。
说曰：是非古之风也，发发者；是非古之车也，揭揭者。
盖伤之也。今者大王幸方与，曾不半日而驰二百里，百姓颇废耕桑，治道牵马，臣愚以为民不可数变。
昔召公述职，当民事时，舍于棠下而听断焉。
是时，人皆得其所，后世思其仁恩，至乎不伐甘棠，《甘棠》之诗是也。
大王不好书术而乐逸游，冯式撙衔，驰骋不止，口倦乎叱咤，手苦于箠辔，身劳乎车舆；朝则冒雾露，昼则被尘埃，夏则为大暑之所暴炙，冬则为风寒之所偃薄。
数以耎脆之玉体犯勤劳之烦毒，非所以全寿命之宗也，又非所以进仁义之隆也。
translation: 
I heard that in ancient times, the army usually marched thirty miles a day, but it only marched fifty miles for auspicious occasions. "The Book of Songs" says: The wind is blowing, the car is speeding, I look around and feel sad in my heart.
It means: The rapid and erratic hair is not the ancient way of wind; the horse is driven at a gallop, this is not the ancient way of chariot. Hence the sadness.
Now the king is on a tour of Xingfang and the county. He has traveled two hundred miles in less than half a day. Many people have abandoned their farm work to build roads and lead their horses. I think the people should not be changeable.
In the past, when Duke Zhao took office, he would do business under the Gantang tree when farming was busy.
At that time, everyone had his own place, and later generations of owners also remembered his benevolence and kindness, so much so that they did not cut down a cang tree to commemorate him. The poem "Gantang" in the Book of Songs describes this incident.
Your Majesty, you don't like to study and study, but like to travel. You lean on the carriage rails all day long to drive and ride horses. Your tongue is tired from shouting and yelling, your arms are sore from driving and riding horses, and your body is tired from the jolting of carriages and horses. You face fog and dew in the morning and are covered with dust during the day. You are scorched by the scorching heat in summer and bitten by the biting cold in winter.
Repeatedly using your weak body to withstand the abuse of hard work is not conducive to longevity, nor is it conducive to the growth of benevolence and righteousness.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
夫广夏之下，细旃之上，明师居前，劝诵在后，上论唐、虞之际，下及殷、周之盛，考仁圣之风，习治国之道，焉发愤忘食，日新厥德，其乐岂徒衔橛之间哉！
休则俯仰诎信以利形，进退步趋以实下，吸新吐故以练臧，专意积精以适神，于以养生，岂不长哉！
大王诚留意如此，则心有尧、舜之志，体有乔、松之寿，美声广誉登而上闻，则福禄其辏而社稷安矣。
皇帝仁圣，至今思慕未怠，于官馆囿池弋猎之乐未有所幸，大王宜夙夜念此，以承圣意。
诸侯骨肉，莫亲大王，大王于属则子也，于位则臣也，一身而二任之责加焉，恩爱行义孅介有不具者，于以上闻，非飨国之福也。
臣吉愚戆，愿大王察之。
translation: 
In the spacious and bright room, on the exquisite and gorgeous carpets, teachers with both ability and political integrity are teaching earnestly in the front, and diligent and inquisitive students are studying hard in the back. They discuss the old events of the Tang and Yu Dynasties, and the grand events of the Yin and Zhou Dynasties, and inspect The demeanor of a benevolent and sage person, learning how to govern the country and the people, being leisurely and contented, working hard and forgetting to eat, constantly improving and perfecting one's own moral cultivation, how can the pleasure and joy in it be compared to driving a horse and traveling around!
When resting, bend, bend and stretch to activate the body's tendons, walk in and out instead of driving to strengthen the legs, spit out the old and absorb the new to practice the Qi of the five internal organs, and concentrate on concentrating the mind to nourish the spirit and calm the mind. If you use the above methods to maintain your health, can't you still live a long life?
If your Majesty truly acts with sincerity, you will have the ambitions of Yao and Shun in your heart, and the longevity of Qiao and Song in your body. Your praise will rise and be heard by the emperor, and you will be blessed with good fortune and the country will be stable.
Today's saint is a benevolent and wise saint. Since the late emperor Yanjia, he has been thinking about him endlessly. He has never been involved in traveling to palaces, gardens, hunting and other recreational activities. Your Majesty, you should always bear these in mind and understand the holy will.
Among all the princes, there is no one who has a closer relationship with the emperor than you, the king. From the perspective of biological relationship, the king is the descendant. According to the status of the king and the minister, the king is a minister, and you have double responsibilities. In this position, if the king is slightly imperfect in benevolence and righteousness, and the emperor knows about it, it will not be a good thing for inheriting the country.
Your Majesty, I am ignorant and straightforward, I hope your Majesty will understand.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
王贺虽不遵道，然犹知敬礼吉，乃下令曰： 寡人造行不能无惰，中尉甚忠，数辅吾过。
使谒者千秋赐中尉牛肉五百斤，酒五石，脯五束。
其后复放从自若。
吉辄谏争，甚得辅弼之义，虽不治民，国中莫不敬重焉。
久之，昭帝崩，亡嗣，大将军霍光秉政，遣大鸿胪、宗正迎昌邑王。
吉即奏书戒王曰： 臣闻高宗谅暗，三年不言。
今大王以丧事征，宜日夜哭泣悲哀而已，慎毋有所发。
且何独丧事，凡南面之君何言哉？
天不言，四时行焉，百物生焉，愿大王察之。
大将军仁爱勇智，忠信之德天下莫不闻，事孝武皇帝二十余年未尝有过。
先帝弃群臣，属以天下，寄幼孤焉，大将军抱持幼君襁褓之中，布政施教，海内晏然，虽周公、伊尹亡以加也。
今帝崩，亡嗣，大将军惟思可以奉宗庙者，攀援而立大王，其仁厚岂有量哉！
臣愿大王事之敬之，政事一听之，大王垂拱南面而已。
愿留意，常以为念。
王既到，即位二十余日以行淫乱废。
昌邑群臣坐在国时不举奏王罪过，令汉朝不闻知，又不能辅道，陷王大恶，皆下狱诛。
唯吉与郎中令龚遂以忠直数谏正得减死，髡为城旦。
起家复为益州刺史，病去官，复征为博士、谏大夫。
是时，宣帝颇修武帝故事，宫室车服盛于昭帝。
时外戚许、史、王氏贵宠，而上躬亲政事，任用能吏。
吉上疏言得失，曰：
translation: 
Although Changyi King Liu He did not follow the right path, he still knew how to treat Wang Ji with respect and courtesy, so he issued an order: "It is impossible for me to be lax in my moral character. Lieutenant Wang Ji is loyal and has corrected my mistakes many times."
Therefore, I ordered Qianqiu to give the lieutenant five hundred catties of beef, five stones of wine, and five bunches of dried meat.
After that, Liu He indulged himself as usual.
Wang Ji always fulfilled his duty as an assistant minister by admonishing and arguing according to reason. Although he did not directly participate in the governance of the people, everyone in the feudal country did not respect him.
After a long time, Emperor Zhao died and he had no crown prince. The general Huo Guang came to power and sent Dahonglu Zongzheng to welcome the king of Changyi to the capital.
Wang Ji immediately wrote a letter to warn the king of Changyi: I heard that Emperor Gaozong was in mourning and did not speak for three years.
Now that your Majesty has been summoned for a funeral, you should mourn and weep day and night, and do nothing else.
Besides, why should funerals be like this? Why would the king of the south ever say too much?
The sky is silent, the four seasons are still changing according to the time, and all things in the world are still living and multiplying. I hope your Majesty will understand clearly.
General Huo Guang is kind, wise and brave, and his character of loyalty and integrity is known to everyone in the world. He has served Emperor Xiaowu for more than 20 years without ever making a mistake.
When the late emperor passed away, he entrusted the world and the young orphan to him. The general supported the infant emperor, issued decrees to educate him, and maintained the stability of the country. Even Zhou Gong and Yi Yin could only do this.
Now that the emperor has passed away without an heir, the general considers that he can inherit the Han Dynasty and the ancestral temple, and uses promotion to welcome the king as king. His benevolence and generosity are really unparalleled!
I hope that the king will serve him and respect him, and that all state affairs will be subject to his arrangements. You only need to do nothing to rule the south and call yourself the king.
I hope your Majesty will consider my suggestions and keep them in mind.
After King Changyi arrived in the capital, he took the throne for more than 20 days and was deposed for his lewd behavior.
The ministers of the Changyi feudal state did not report the crimes of King Changyi during the feudal period, so the court did not know the character of King Changyi; and because they failed to fulfill their duties as assistants and guides as ministers, King Changyi committed serious crimes and were all imprisoned and executed.
Only Wang Ji and his lieutenant Gong Sui escaped death because of their loyalty and uprightness and repeated admonitions. They were sentenced to shave their heads and build the city.
Later, he rose up and returned to serve as the governor of Yizhou, but soon resigned due to illness. He was also recruited as a doctor to advise the doctors.
At that time, Emperor Xuan tried his best to follow Emperor Wu's example and restored the rules and regulations of Emperor Wu's time. The palaces, carriages, clothing, etc. were all larger than those of Emperor Zhao's time.
At this time, Xu, Shi, Wang and other relatives were also favored and honored. Emperor Xuan personally handled political affairs and appointed capable officials.
Wang Jishangshu commented on its gains and losses:


Chunk 6: 
original: 
陛下躬圣质，总万方，帝王图籍日陈于前，惟思世务，将兴太平。
诏书每下，民欣然若更生。
臣伏而思之，可谓至恩，未可谓本务也。
欲治之主不世出，公卿幸得遭遇其时，言听谏从，然未有建万世之长策，举明主于三代之隆者也。
其务在于期会簿书，断狱听讼而已，此非太平之基也。
臣闻圣王宣德流化，必自近始。
朝廷不备，难以言治；左右不正，难以化远。
民者，弱而不可胜，愚而不可欺也。
圣主独行于深宫，得则天下称诵之，失则天下咸言之。
行发于近，必见于远，故谨选左右，审择所使。左右所以正身也，所使所以宣德也。《诗》云： 济济多士，文王以宁。
translation: 
His Majesty personally presides over the affairs of all parties with dignity. The national map and household registration are displayed in front of his eyes every day. He is devoted to national government affairs and strives for peace in the world.
Every time Shao Shu was passed down, the people were overjoyed and felt like they had been given a new life.
I believe that although these measures are the greatest favor to the people, they cannot be said to have fulfilled the fundamentals of government affairs.
There are not always monarchs who want to make a difference. The ministers are lucky enough to encounter such an era. The monarchs can listen to the suggestions and advice of the ministers, but they do not have a long-term strategy to establish an eternal foundation, and they do not create wise kings and saints like the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties in their heyday.
Only focusing on matters such as the transfer of property from the court or the government to the settlement of lawsuits is not the basis for establishing a peaceful society.
I heard that when a sage monarch promotes virtue and education, he must start from the present.
If the court is not in order, it will be difficult to govern the country; if the people around the monarch are not upright, it will be difficult to educate people far away.
Although the people are weak, they cannot be bullied, and although they are ignorant, they cannot be deceived.
The Holy Lord lives alone in the deep palace. If his actions win people's hearts, the world will praise him. If he loses people's hearts, the world will talk about him.
Although the emperor's actions are done before the eyes, their influence is far-reaching. Therefore, the left and right ministers and envoys around him should be carefully selected. The left and right ministers are set up to correct the emperor's words and deeds, and the envoys are set up to promote the emperor's kindness. The Book of Songs says: Talents abounded, and King Wen was able to stabilize the world.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
此其本也。
《春秋》所以大一统者，六合同风，九州共贯也。
今俗吏所以牧民者，非有礼义科指可世世通行者也，独设刑法以守之。
其欲治者，不知所由，以意穿凿，各取一切，权谲自在，故一变之后不可复修也。
是以百里不同风，千里不同俗，户异政，人殊服，诈伪萌生，刑罚亡极，质朴日销，恩爱浸薄。
孔子曰 安上治民，莫善于礼 ，非空言也。
王者未制礼之时，引先王礼宜于今者而用之。
translation: 
Creation is the foundation of national government affairs.
The unified politics with the emperor as the center advocated by "Spring and Autumn" means that the customs and education of all parts of the country are the same, and the policies and orders of the nine states are unified.
Nowadays, those mediocre and incompetent officials govern the people, not relying on the etiquette and norms that can be used in all generations for education, but only relying on criminal laws to achieve their goals.
Those officials who want to make a difference cannot carefully examine the rules, regulations, etiquette and norms. Instead, they follow their own will, get what they need, speculate and act arbitrarily. Therefore, once the situation changes, it will be difficult to continue to implement their decrees.
As a result, the customs within a hundred miles are different, the education within a thousand miles is different, every family is engaged in different things, everyone wears different colors, and treachery and deceit compete with each other. There is no end to the abuse of punishment, the simple folk customs are disappearing day by day, and the affection of love is gradually weakening.
Confucius said that the best way to stabilize the political power and govern the people is to rule by courtesy. This is not an empty talk.
As the king of a country, before a new system of etiquette and justice has been formulated, he should choose and apply the parts of the etiquette and justice system established by the previous kings that are suitable for the current situation.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣愿陛下承天心，发大业，与公卿大臣延及儒生，述旧礼，明王制，驱一世之民济之仁寿之域，则俗何以不若成、康，寿何以不若高宗？
窃见当世趋务不合于道者，谨条奏，唯陛下财择焉。
吉意以为： 夫妇，人伦大纲，夭寿之萌也。
世俗嫁娶太早，未知为人父母之道而有子，是以教化不明而民多夭。
聘妻送女亡节，则贫人不及，故不举子。
又汉家列侯尚公主，诸侯则国人承翁主，使男事女，夫诎于妇，逆阴阳之位，故多女乱。
translation: 
Your Majesty, I hope that your Majesty will obey the way of heaven, strive for great achievements, study the old rites together with the ministers and Confucian scholars, declare the royal system, and govern the world with benevolence, justice and etiquette, so that the people can bathe in your majesty's grace, live in comfort and live a long life. In this way, why worry about the world's customs and education not being as good as those of the Cheng and Kang eras, and the long-term peace and stability of the country not being as good as that of King Wuding of Yin?
Your Majesty, I personally believe that there are some things in today's society that are not in line with etiquette and justice, and I would like to submit a list of them for your Majesty's Holy Judgment to make a clear decision.
Wang Ji believes that husband and wife are the most important relationship among human beings. It is related to life, old age, illness and death.
Nowadays, secular people get married too early and have children before they understand the principles of parenthood. Therefore, not only is it difficult to implement moral education, but people are also prone to premature death.
Marrying a wife and having children is expensive and poor families cannot afford it, so they dare not have more children.
In addition, the princes of the Han Dynasty married princesses, and the people in the princely kingdoms married the daughters of princes. This system made men serve women and husbands submitted to their wives, which reversed the order of yin and yang, so disasters caused by women were prone to occur.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
古者衣服车马贵贱有章，以褒有德而别尊卑，今上下僣差，人人自制，是以贪财诛利，不畏死亡。
周之所以能致治，刑措而不用者，以其禁邪于冥冥，绝恶于未萌也。
又言： 舜、汤不用三公九卿之世而举皋陶、伊尹，不仁者远。
今使俗吏得任子弟，率多骄骜，不通古今，至于积功治人，亡益于民，此《伐檀》所为作也。
宜明选求贤，除任子之令。
外家及故人可厚以财，不宜居位。去角抵，减乐府，省尚方，明视天下以俭。
古者工不造雕王缘，商不通侈靡，非工商之独贤，政教使之然也。
translation: 
In ancient times, clothes, carriages and horses had certain regulations according to the status of their owners, to commend virtuous people and distinguish between superior and inferior. However, nowadays, the superior and inferior are arrogant and chaotic. Everyone does their own thing without certain restraint. Therefore, people are greedy for money and pursue personal gain without risking their lives.
The reason why the Zhou Dynasty was able to achieve great order in the world without punishment was because it curbed all kinds of evil and evil before they occurred.
Wang Ji also said: Yu Shun and Shang Tang did not appoint the hereditary sons of Sangong and Jiuqing, but selected Gao Tao and Yi Yin as ministers, so that those who were slanderous and unkind were alienated.
Nowadays, the children of officials are allowed to serve as officials. Most of them are proud and arrogant, and do not understand the affairs of the past and present. As for accumulating merits and governing the people, it is of no benefit to the people. This is the Book of Songs. The phenomenon satirized in "Cutting the Sandalwood".
Open selection should be implemented to recruit talented people, and the system in which sons and daughters serve as officials under the shadow of their father and elder brothers should be abolished.
Foreign relatives, relatives and friends can give them more money, but they should not be allowed to hold high official positions. They should abandon the play of extortion, reduce the number of Yuefu, lay off the craftsmen who are in charge of craftsmanship, and make it clear to the world that they are determined to advocate frugality.
In the past, craftsmen did not make exquisitely carved utensils, and merchants did not circulate extravagant and wasteful goods. This was not because these craftsmen and merchants were uniquely virtuous, but the result of the political education of the rulers.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
民见俭则归本，本立而末成。 其指如此，上以其言迂阔，不甚宠异也。
吉遂谢病归琅邪。
始吉少时学问，居长安。
东家有大枣树垂吉庭中，吉妇取枣以啖吉。
吉后知之，乃去妇。
东家闻而欲伐其树，邻里共止之，因固请吉令还妇。里中为之语曰： 东家有树，王阳妇去；东家枣完，去妇复还。
其厉志如此。
吉与贡禹为友，世称 王阳在位，贡公弹冠 ，言其取舍同也。
元帝初即位，遣使者征贡禹与吉。
吉年老，道病卒，上悼之，复遣使者吊祠云。
初，吉兼通《五经》，能为驺氏《春秋》，以《诗》、《论语》教授，好梁丘贺说《易》，令子骏受焉。
translation: 
When the people of the world see the government's determination to abandon extravagance and adopt frugality, they will return to the fundamentals of agriculture. Once the fundamentals are established, the related industrial and commercial sectors will be able to develop on the right track. The core idea of ​​Wang Jishangshu was roughly the same. The emperor believed that his remarks were unrealistic, so he didn't think highly of him.
Wang Ji then excused himself to feel unwell and returned to his hometown of Langye.
When Wang Ji was young, he studied and lived in Chang'an City.
There was a large jujube tree in the owner's house, and its branches and leaves hung down into the courtyard where Wang Ji lived. Wang Ji's wife picked some jujubes from the tree and gave them to Wang Ji to eat.
Wang Ji later found out that the dates were picked from Shu's tree, so he abandoned his wife.
After the Dong family learned about this, they wanted to cut down the jujube tree. The neighbors dissuaded him and firmly begged Wang Ji to let his wife return home. The people in the village said about this matter: There is a tree in the boss's house, and Wang Yang's wife goes away; when the boss's jujube is finished, the wife who goes away comes back.
This shows Wang Ji's motivation for his own will.
Wang Ji and Gong Yu were good friends, and people said that when Wang Yang was an official in the court, Gong Yu would also become an official, which meant that they both had the same interests.
Not long after Emperor Yuan of Han came to the throne, he sent envoys to recruit Gong Yu and Wang Ji to join the court.
Because Wang Ji was old, he contracted an illness and died on the way. Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty mourned him and sent envoys to pay tribute to him.
At the beginning, Wang Ji was proficient in the Five Classics and was familiar with Li's Spring and Autumn Annals. He taught students the Book of Songs and the Analects of Confucius. He especially liked the Book of Changes explained by Liang Qiuhe and asked his son Wang Jun to study with him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
骏以孝廉为郎。
左曹陈咸荐骏贤父子，经明行修，宜显以厉俗。
光禄勋匡衡亦举骏有专对材。
迁谏大夫，使责淮阳宪王。
迁赵内史。
吉坐昌邑王被刑后，戒子孙毋为王国吏，故骏道病，免官归。
起家复为幽州刺史，迁司隶校尉，奏免丞相匡衡，迁少府，八岁，成帝欲大用之，出骏为京兆尹，试以政事。
先是，京兆有赵广汉、张敞、王尊、王章，至骏皆有能名，故京师称曰： 前有赵、张，后有三王。
而薛宣从左冯翊代骏为少府，会御史大夫缺，谷永奏言： 圣王不以名誉加于实效。
考绩用人之法，薛宣政事已试。
上然其议。宣为少府月余，遂超御史大夫，至丞相，骏乃代宣为御史大夫，并居位。
六岁病卒，翟方进代骏为大夫。
数月，薛宣免，遂代为丞相。
众人为骏恨不得封侯。
骏为少府时，妻死，因不复娶，或问之，骏曰： 德非曾参，子非华、元，亦何敢娶？
骏子崇以父任为郎，历刺史、郡守，治有能名。
建平三年，以河南太守征入为御史大夫数月。
是时，成帝舅安成恭侯夫人放寡居，共养长信宫，坐祝诅下狱，崇奏封事，为放言。
放外家解氏与崇为婚，哀帝以崇为不忠诚，策诏崇曰： 朕以君有累世之美，故逾列次。
translation: 
Wang Jun appointed Xiao Lian as Lang.
Chen Xian, the Zuo Cao, recommended Wang Jun, saying that both his father and son were virtuous, knowledgeable about the classics, and cultivated moral principles. They should be placed in a distinguished position to encourage the worldly people.
Guangluxun Kuangheng also recommended Wang Jun, saying that he was right when asked and had no doubts.
As a result, Wang Jun was promoted to the position of admonishing doctor, and represented the imperial court to criticize and criticize Huaiyang King Xian's misconduct.
Later, he was appointed as the internal history of Zhao State.
After Wang Ji was implicated in the affairs of King Changyi and was sentenced, he warned his descendants not to be officials in the princely kingdoms. Therefore, Wang Jun claimed to be ill and was relieved of his duties and returned home.
Later, he was appointed as the governor of Youzhou from his family, and was promoted to the rank of Sili Xiaowei. He dismissed the prime minister Kuang Heng in a memorial, and was later appointed as the Shaofu. After eight years of this, Emperor Cheng was ready to entrust him with an important task and let him serve as Jing Zhaoyin to test his ability to handle political affairs.
Prior to this, those who served as Zhaoyin in the capital included Fang Guanghan, Zhang Chang, Wang Zun, Wang Zhang and others. Up to Wang Jun, they all had a reputation for being capable. Therefore, people in the capital praised him and said: There were Zhao and Zhang before him, and there were three kings after him.
At that time, Xue Xuan took the post of Zuo Feng Yi and succeeded Wang Jun as the Shaofu. Just in time to catch up with the vacancy of the imperial censor, Gu Yong reported: A wise king does not listen to false names but pays attention to actual results when employing people.
The method of employing people must examine their merits. Xue Xuan passed the inspection and had great political achievements.
Emperor Cheng agreed with Gu Yong's opinion. Therefore, Xue Xuan was promoted to the post of Shaofu for more than a month, and was promoted to Yushi doctor, and finally to prime minister. Wang Jun took over the post of imperial censor instead of Xue Xuan. The two were officials in the same dynasty and held high positions.
Six years later, Wang Jun died of illness, and Zhai Fangjin succeeded Wang Jun as the imperial censor.
A few months later, Xue Xuan was dismissed and Zhai Fangjin took over as prime minister.
Everyone felt sorry that Wang Jun was not granted the title of Marquis.
When Wang Jun was the Shaofu, his wife died and he did not marry again. Someone asked him why. He said: I have no virtue like Zeng Shen, no beautiful son, no virtuous son, how dare I marry again?
Wang Chong, the son of Wang Jun, was appointed as Lang under the influence of his father. He successively held the positions of governor and county governor, and had a reputation for being able to govern.
In the third year of Jianping, when he took office as the governor of Henan, he was recruited into the court and served as a censor for several months.
At that time, the wife of An Chenggonghou, the uncle of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, was released into mourning and widowed, and was supported in the Changxin Palace. She was imprisoned for the crime of witchcraft and curses. Wang Chong submitted a sealed seal to plead for her release.
Fang's natal family Xie and Wang Chong were related by marriage. Therefore, Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty thought that Wang Chong was not loyal to the emperor, so he made a plan to Shao and warned Wang Chong: "Because your family has a good reputation for many generations, I chose you as an exception."


Chunk 12: 
original: 
在位以来，忠诚匡国未闻所由，反怀诈谖之辞，欲以攀救旧姻之家，大逆之辜，举错专恣，不遵法度，亡以示百僚。
左迁为大司农，后徙卫尉、左将军。
平帝即位，王莽秉政，大司空彭宣乞骸骨罢，崇代为大司空，封扶平侯。
岁余，崇复谢病乞骸骨，皆避王莽，莽遣就国。
岁余，为傅婢所毒，薨，国除。
自吉至崇，世名清廉，然材器名称稍不能及父，而禄位弥隆。
皆好车马衣服，其自奉养极为鲜明，而亡金银锦绣之物。
及迁徙去处，所载不过囊衣，不畜积余财。
去位家居，亦布衣疏食。
天下服其廉而怪其奢，故俗传 王阳能作黄金 。
贡禹字少翁，琅邪人也。
translation: 
However, since you took office, you have not done anything loyal to support the country. Instead, you have made these treacherous words in an attempt to save your in-laws' family. This is a crime of treason. You act arbitrarily and wantonly, do not follow the law, and are not good enough to set an example for all officials.
So Wang Chong was demoted to Da Si Nong, and later he was promoted to Weiwei General Zuo.
After Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Wang Mang took control of the government. Peng Xuan, the Grand Sikong, petitioned to resign and return to his hometown. When he was allowed, Wang Chong replaced him as the Grand Sikong and was named Fupinghou.
More than a year later, Wang Chong also claimed to be ill and asked to resign and return home. In fact, they were all trying to avoid Wang Mang, so Wang Mang asked Wang Chong to go to Fupinghou's fief for retirement.
More than a year later, Wang Chong was poisoned to death by his maid, and his feudal kingdom was abolished.
From Wang Ji to Wang Chong, the Wang family has a reputation of being honest and honest for several generations. However, in terms of talent, knowledge and reputation, all the descendants are slightly inferior to their fathers and ancestors, but their official positions are getting higher and higher.
Generations of the Wang family have been fond of carriages, horses, and clothes. Their food, clothing, housing, and transportation are all very particular and outstanding, but they do not have gold, silver, brocade, and other items.
Every time we moved, all the car carried was a bag of spare clothes. They don't store excess belongings.
When he left his official home, he also lived in common people's clothing and ate vegetarian food.
People all over the world admired their honesty, but they were very surprised that they were so particular about food, clothing, carriages and horses. Therefore, it was said among the people that "Wang Yang could turn gold".
Gongyu, courtesy name Shaoweng, was born in Langxie.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
以明经洁行著闻，征为博士、凉州刺史，病去官。
复举贤良为河南令。
岁余，以职事为府官所责，免冠谢。
禹曰： 冠一免，安复可冠也！
遂去官。
元帝初即位，征禹为谏大夫，数虚己问以政事。
是时，年岁不登，郡国多困，禹奏言：
古者宫室有制，宫女不过九人，秣马不过八匹；墙涂而不雕，木摩而不刻，车舆器物皆不文画，苑囿不过数十里，与民共之；任贤使能，什一而税，无它赋敛徭戍之役，使民岁不过三日，千里之内自给，千里之外各置贡职而已。
故天下家给人足，颂声并作。
translation: 
Known for his proficiency in classics and good conduct, he was recruited as a doctor and served as the governor of Liangzhou. He resigned due to illness.
Later, he was elected as a virtuous person and appointed as the order of Henan.
After being exposed for more than a year, he was accused by government officials on official business and was forced to take off his hat and apologize.
Gong Yu said: Once you take off your hat, how can you put it on again?
So he resigned and left.
Not long after Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he recruited Gong Yu as an admonishing official and condescended to ask him about political affairs many times.
At that time, the year was not good, the agricultural harvest was poor, and the prefectures, counties and kingdoms all over the world were in a difficult situation. Gongyu reported to him:
In ancient times, palaces had a certain standard system. There were no more than nine maids and no more than eight horses. Palace walls were painted but not painted, and the wood was polished but not carved. Cars, carriages, utensils, etc. were not decorated with colors and patterns. The radius of the royal gardens did not exceed dozens of miles, and they were shared with the common people. Talented people were appointed, Only a tax equivalent to one-tenth of the people's income is collected. Apart from this, there are no other taxes or labor and border guards. The people are enslaved for no more than three days a year. With the capital as the center, the emperor within a thousand miles collects taxes for himself. A thousand miles away, the emperor determines a certain type and quantity based on their production, so that they can pay tribute on time.
Therefore, the people of the world have enough food and clothing, and the voices of gratitude and praise for the king can be heard everywhere.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
至高祖、孝文、孝景皇帝，循古节俭，宫女不过十余，厩马百余匹。
孝文皇帝衣绨履革，器亡雕文金银之饰。
后世争为奢侈，转转益甚，臣下亦相放效，衣服履裤刀剑乱于主上，主上时临潮入庙，众人不能别异，甚非其宜。
然非自知奢僣也，犹鲁昭公曰： 吾何僣矣？
今大夫僣诸侯，诸侯僣天子，天子过天道，其日久矣。
承衰救乱，矫复古化，在于陛下。
臣愚以为尽如太古难，宜少放古以自节焉。《论语》曰： 君子乐节礼乐。
方今宫室已定，亡可奈何矣，其余尽可减损。
故时齐三服官输物不过十笥，方今齐三服官作工各数千人，一岁费数巨万。
蜀广汉主金银器，岁各用五百万。
三工官官费五千万，东西织室亦然。
厩马食粟将万匹。
臣禹尝从之东宫，见赐怀案，尽文画金银饰，非当所以赐食臣下也。
东宫之费亦不可胜计。
translation: 
By the time of Emperors Gaozu, Xiaowen, and Xiaojing, they still followed the ancient system and were diligent and thrifty. There were only a dozen maids in the palace, and there were no more than a hundred horses in the stables.
Emperor Xiaowen wore clothes made of thick silk and shoes made of animal skins, and the utensils he used were not decorated with carvings, paintings, gold or silver inlays.
However, people in later generations competed for luxury, and the situation became more and more serious, and the ministers also rushed to imitate. There were no certain regulations on clothes, pants, shoes, hats, and swords. They were chaotic and overstepped the master. The master often went to court and temples. It was difficult for everyone to distinguish superiority from inferiority based on the carriage and clothing. This situation was not appropriate.
However, those people did not realize their extravagant transgression. As Lu Zhaogong said: How could I have transgressed?
Nowadays, it has been a long time that the great officials overran the princes, the princes overran the emperor, and the emperor overran the way of heaven.
To take over the declining situation, save the chaotic etiquette, and restore the ancient teachings, I am counting on your Majesty.
My Majesty, I believe that it is difficult to completely restore the situation to the ancient times. It is best to follow the example of others and exercise self-restraint. The Analects of Confucius says: A gentleman enjoys ritual and music.
Now that the palace has been completed, there is nothing we can do or change, so we can try to be frugal in other aspects.
In the past, the three-service officials who made clothes for the emperor in Chadi sent only ten bamboo boxes of clothing every year. Now, the three-service officials in Qidi employ thousands of people each and spend tens of thousands a year.
Lord Guanghan of Shu County made gold and silver vessels at an annual cost of five million each.
The annual official expenses of the three workers under the Shaofu are 50 million, and the same is true for the East and West Weaving Rooms.
There are nearly ten thousand horses eating millet in the stables.
I once followed you to the Queen Mother's Palace, and the Queen Mother gave me a banquet. The wine glasses and tables used were painted with patterns and decorated with gold and silver. These are not suitable for banquets with ministers.
The cost of the Queen Mother's Palace is also prohibitive.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
天下之民所为大饥饿死者，是也。
今民大饥而死，死又不葬，为犬猪食。
人至相食，而厩马食粟，苦其大肥，气甚怒至，乃日步作之。
王者受命于天，为民父母，固当若此乎！
天不见耶？
武帝时又多取好女至数千人，以填后宫。
及弃天下，昭帝幼弱，霍光专事，不知礼正，妄多臧金钱财物，鸟、兽、鱼、鳖、牛、马、虎、豹生禽，凡百九十物，尽瘗臧之，又皆以后宫女置于园陵，大失礼，逆天心，又未必称武帝意也。
昭帝晏驾，光复行之。
至孝宣皇帝时，陛下恶有所言，群臣亦随故事，甚可痛也！
故使天下承化，取女皆大过度，诸侯妻妾或至数百人，豪富吏民畜歌者至数十人，是以内多怨女，外多旷夫。
及众庶葬埋，皆虚地上以实地下。
translation: 
This is the reason why people all over the world are dying of hunger.
Nowadays, people are dying due to famine, and they are unable to bury their bodies after death. Their bones are eaten by pigs and dogs, and there are even cases of cannibalism.
On the contrary, the horses in the palace stables were fed so much corn all day long that people worried about them being too fat. They were also worried that they would be energetic and prone to anger, so they walked them every day to consume their excess energy.
The king is appointed by heaven to be the parents of the people, is this how it should be!
Doesn’t the sky have eyes?
When Emperor Mowu was in power, he recruited thousands of beautiful women to enrich his harem.
After his death, Emperor Zhao was still young. Huo Guang controlled the government and did not understand the correct etiquette. He arbitrarily collected a large amount of money and property, as well as 190 kinds of animals, including black animals, fish, turtles, cattle, horses, tigers, and leopards. They were all buried underground as Emperor Wu's funeral objects. He also placed the women in the harem in the garden to observe the festival, which greatly distorted the etiquette system, violated the laws of heaven, and may not be in line with Emperor Wu's wishes.
When Emperor Zhao died, Huo Guang acted like this again.
When Emperor Xiaoxuan passed away, Your Majesty did not express any intention to change the previous system, and your ministers just continued to do things as usual. It is really sad!
Therefore, everyone in the world followed this trend and married more women than the limit. Some princes had hundreds of wives and concubines. Some wealthy and official families raised dozens of singers and prostitutes for free. As a result, there were many resentful women in the palace and many idle husbands outside the palace.
As for people's funerals, they do not hesitate to leave the ground empty, but bury a large number of belongings underground.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其过自上生，皆在大臣循故事之罪也。
唯陛下深察古道，从其俭者，大减损乘舆服御器物，三分去二。
子产多少有命，审察后宫，择其贤者留二十人，余悉归之。
及诸陵园女亡子者，宜悉遣。
独杜陵宫人数百，诚可哀怜也。
厩马可亡过数十匹。
独舍长安城南苑地以为田猎之囿，自城西南至山西至鄠皆复其田，以与贫民。
方今天下饥馑，可亡大自损减以救之，称天意乎？
天生圣人，盖为万民，非独使自娱乐而已也。
故《诗》曰： 天难谌斯，不易为王 ； 上帝临女，毋贰尔心。
当仁不让 ，独可以圣心参诸天地，揆之往古，不可与臣下议也。
若其阿意顺指，随君上下，臣禹不胜拳拳，不敢不尽愚心。
translation: 
The source of this distressing situation lies in the Lord, but the fault lies in the behavior of his subordinates who follow the old routine.
I hope that your majesty will conduct an in-depth study of the ancient ways, follow their frugal customs, and reduce a large number of vehicles, clothing, and royal utensils by two-thirds.
The number of heirs is determined by fate. Your Majesty should examine the women in the harem and select the virtuous among them to keep twenty, and let the rest return to their homes.
Among the women who observe the festival in each cemetery and have no heirs, they should also be sent back to their homes.
There are hundreds of maids in Du Ling alone, which is really pitiful.
There should be no more than dozens of horses in the palace.
Only the southern garden of Chang'an City was reserved as a place for hunting. The gardens from the southwest of the city to Shanxi and even Hubei were restored to farmland and distributed to poor people.
Nowadays, the people in the world are suffering from hunger. Can we not drastically reduce the cost of food, clothing, housing and transportation to help the people and comply with God's will?
Being born a saint is for the sake of the people of the world, not just for the saint to be happy on his own.
Therefore, the "Book of Songs" says: It is difficult to inherit the will of God, and it is not easy to be a king; God is always monitoring you, and you must not have two minds.
"The Analects of Confucius" says that the emperor should only observe the laws of heaven and earth with the mind of a saint, and follow the example of the ancient sages, and should not discuss with his ministers.
If I, the minister, are bent on flattery and will only act according to the king's will, I, Gongyu, am full of enthusiasm and I dare not fail to give my whole heart.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
天子纳善其忠，乃下诏令太仆减食谷马，水衡减食肉兽，省宜春下苑以与贫民，又罢角抵诸戏及齐三服官。
迁禹为光禄大夫。
顷之，禹上书曰： 臣禹年老贫穷，家訾不满万钱，妻子糠豆不赡，裋褐不完。
有田百三十亩，陛下过意征臣，臣卖田百亩以供车马。
至，拜为谏大夫，秩八百石，俸钱月九千二百。
廪食太官，又蒙赏赐四时杂缯、绵絮、衣服、酒肉、诸果物，德厚甚深。
疾病侍医临治，赖陛下神灵，不死而活。
又拜为光禄大夫，秩二千石，俸钱月万二千。
禄赐愈多，家日以益富，身日以益尊，诚非草茅愚臣所当蒙也。
伏自念终亡以报厚德，日夜惭愧而已。
臣禹犬马之齿八十一，血气衰竭，耳目不聪明，非复能有补益，所谓素餐尸禄洿朝之臣也。
自痛去家三千里，凡有一子，年十二，非有在家为臣具棺椁者也。
诚恐一旦蹎仆气竭，不复自还，洿席荐于宫室，骸骨弃捐，孤魂不归。
不胜私愿，愿乞骸骨，及身生归乡里，死亡所恨。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty appreciated Gong Yu's loyalty and adopted his suggestions. He then ordered his servants to reduce the number of horses that ate grain, and ordered Shui Heng to reduce the number of carnivorous animals for viewing. He also set aside the land in Xiayuan of Yichun and distributed it to the poor for farming.
Gongyu was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
Soon, Gong Yu wrote a letter saying: At that time I was old and poor, my family wealth totaled less than ten thousand yuan, my wife and children could not feed me with coarse food, and my coarse clothes did not cover my body.
I have one hundred and thirty acres of land. His Majesty mistakenly recruited me because of his love. I sold one hundred acres of land to buy carriages and horses to fulfill the imperial edict.
After arriving in the capital, he was worshiped as an admonishing doctor with an official rank of 800 shi and a monthly salary of 9,200.
The eunuch provided food and drink, and was also rewarded with cloth, clothing, wine, meat, and various fruits for the four seasons. His kindness was profound.
I once suffered from an illness, and Your Majesty sent an imperial doctor to condescend to diagnose and treat me. I relied on Your Majesty’s spirit to survive without death.
He was promoted to Guanglu doctor, with a rank of two thousand shi, and a monthly salary of twelve thousand.
The salary and rewards are getting bigger, the family is getting richer and richer, and the status is getting more and more noble. This is really not the honor that a foolish minister like me should receive.
Privately, I often think that there is no way to repay His Majesty's great kindness, and I can only feel ashamed day and night.
Now I am eighty-one years old, my energy and blood are exhausted, my ears are no longer hearing, and my eyesight is no longer clear. It is impossible for me to contribute to the country or the court. I am just a so-called useless person who lives on an empty salary and damages the image of the court.
I was secretly sad that I was three thousand miles away from home and had only one son who had just turned twelve. No one could buy a coffin for me at home to provide for me until I die.
I am really afraid that once I fall down and die, I will not be able to come back to life, and my palace mats will be stained, my bones will be abandoned in a foreign land, and my lonely soul will not be able to return to my hometown.
With this private wish, I very much hope to resign from my official position and return to my hometown. If I can do so, I will die without regrets.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
天子报曰： 朕以生有伯夷之廉，史鱼之直，守经据占，不阿当世，孳孳于民，俗之所寡，故亲近生，几参国政。
今未得久闻生之奇论也，而云欲退，意岂有所恨与？
将在位者与生殊乎？
往者尝令金敞语生，欲及生时禄生之子，既已谕矣，今复云子少。
夫以王命辨护生家，虽百子何以加？
传曰亡怀土，何必思故乡！
生其强饭慎疾以自辅。
后月余，以禹为长信少府。
会御史大夫陈万年卒，禹代为御史大夫，列于三公。
自禹在位，数言得失，书数十上。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan's instructions said: Because your husband has the integrity of Boyi and the uprightness of Shi Yu, he follows the classics and adheres to the ancient ways, does not blindly follow the world's customs, and tirelessly pleads for the people. He is a noble and virtuous person rarely seen in the world today. Therefore, I am close to you and hope that you will participate in state affairs.
Now, before I can hear more of your husband's shocking remarks, he says he wants to retire. Could it be that he has some regrets and unhappy things?
Or is it because he doesn't share the same interests as other officials in the dynasty?
I have previously instructed Jin Chang to tell you that I want your son to be protected and well-off while you are still alive. You already understand my intention, but now you say that your son is young and there is no one to take care of you until you die.
How can a family with a hundred sons compare to the emperor's order to protect the husband's family?
As the saying goes, don’t miss your hometown. Why should you miss your hometown day and night?
Sir, please eat more to be careful of getting sick and take care of yourself.
More than a month later, Gongyu was appointed as the Shaofu of Changxin.
When Chen Wannian, the imperial censor doctor, passed away, Gong Yu succeeded him as the censor doctor, ranking among the three Dukes.
Since Gong Yu became an official in the court, he has commented on the gains and losses of political affairs many times and submitted dozens of letters.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
禹以为古民亡赋算口钱，起武帝征伐四夷，重赋于民，民产子三岁则出口钱，故民重困，至于生子辄杀，甚可悲痛。
宜令儿七岁去齿乃出口钱，年二十乃算。
又言古者不以金钱为币，专意于农，故一夫不耕，必有受其饥者。
今汉家铸钱，及诸铁官皆置吏卒徒，攻山取铜铁，一岁功十万人已上，中农食七人，是七十万人常受其饥也。
凿地数百丈，销阴气之精，地臧空虚，不能含气出云，斩伐林木亡有时禁，水旱之灾未必不由此也。
自五铢钱起已来七十余年，民坐盗铸钱被刑者众，富人积钱满室，犹亡厌足。
translation: 
Gong Yu believed that in ancient times, people did not have the burden of paying taxes. Since Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty conquered the surrounding ethnic minorities, he began to levy heavy taxes from the common people. When the people gave birth to sons who were three years old, they had to pay taxes. Therefore, the people were so poor that they even killed their sons after they were born. It was really tragic and pitiful.
It should be stipulated that children should not pay taxes until they have lost their teeth at the age of seven, and they should start paying taxes after they reach the age of twenty.
Gongyu also said that in ancient times, people did not use money as currency and concentrated on farming. Therefore, if a person did not farm, there would be people who would starve.
Nowadays, the Han Dynasty has implemented the practice of coining money, and the iron officials have appointed officials and convicts one after another, sending them to dig mines and excavate steel. This requires more than 100,000 people to work a year. On average, a farmer with medium labor can feed seven people. As a result, 700,000 people suffer from hunger every year.
Digging hundreds of feet into the ground destroys the essence of Yin Qi. The underground storehouse is empty and cannot contain Qi to produce clouds. There are no seasonal restrictions on felling trees and forests. Floods and droughts may not be caused by this.
It has been more than seventy years since the coining of five-baht coins began. Many people have been sentenced for the crime of coining money privately. Rich families are still not satisfied with accumulating money.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
民心动摇，商贾求利，东西南北各用智巧，好衣美食，岁有十二之利，而不出租税。农夫父子暴露中野，不避寒暑，捽土，手足胼胝，已奉谷租，又出稿税，乡部私求，不可胜供。
故民弃本逐末，耕者不能半。
贫民虽赐之田，犹贱卖以贾，穷则起为盗贼。
何者？
末利深而惑于钱也。
是以奸邪不可禁，其原皆起于钱也。
疾其末者绝其本，宜罢采珠玉金银铸钱之官，无复以为币。
市井勿得贩卖，除其租铢之律，租税禄赐皆以布帛及谷，使百姓一归于农，复古道便。
又言诸离宫及长乐宫卫可减其太半，以宽徭役。
translation: 
People's hearts were shaken, and merchants pursued financial profits. They used all kinds of means in all directions, east, west, north and south, and enjoyed fine clothes and food. They made two-tenths of the profit every year without paying rent and taxes. However, the farmers and their sons were exposed to the fields, not sheltering from the cold and heat, pulling grass and breaking the soil. Their hands and feet were covered with calluses. They had already paid the grain rent and had to pay the straw tax.
As a result, people have abandoned their primary occupation of farming and pursued a career as a merchant. Less than half of the total population is engaged in agricultural production.
Although the emperor granted land to poor farmers, they still sold it at a low price to engage in business. When they were extremely poor, they turned into thieves.
What is the reason for this?
The profit in the final karma is great and people are susceptible to the temptation of money!
Therefore, treacherous and evil things are often prohibited, and their root cause lies in money.
To eliminate all kinds of evil phenomena, it is necessary to eliminate the sources of evil. The officials in charge of mining pearls, jade, gold and silver and minting money should be dismissed, and no more currency should be minted.
The market transactions of buying cheap and selling high were prohibited, and the original law that allowed two bahts to be used to offset taxes on everything was abolished. Taxes, salaries, and rewards were all made of cloth and grain, so that the people could return to farming and follow ancient laws, which would be convenient for the country and politics.
Gong Yu also suggested that the guard personnel in various palaces and Changle Palace could be reduced by more than half to reduce the burden of corvee on the people.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
又诸官奴婢十万余人戏游亡事，税良民以给之，岁费五六巨万，宜免为庶人，廪食，令代关东戍卒，乘北边亭塞候望。
又欲令近臣自诸曹、侍中以上，家亡得私贩卖，与民争利，犯者辄免官削爵，不得仕宦。
禹又言：孝文皇帝时，贵廉洁，贱贪污，贾人、赘婿及吏坐赃者皆禁锢不得为吏，赏善罚恶，不阿亲戚，罪白者伏其诛，疑者以与民，亡赎罪之法，故令行禁止，海内大化，天下断狱四百，与刑错亡异。
武帝始临天下，尊贤用士，辟地广境数千里，自见功大威行，遂从耆欲，用度不足，乃行一切之变，使犯法者赎罪，入谷者补吏，是以天下奢侈，官乱民贫，盗贼并起，亡命者众。
translation: 
In addition, there are more than 100,000 slaves in various government offices. They play games all day long and have nothing to do. They have to collect taxes from the people to provide them with food and clothing. The annual cost reaches 50,000 to 60,000 yuan. They should be exempted from the status of slaves and become common people, given food, and let them replace the Guandong garrison and station in the northern pavilion to serve as reconnaissance and garrison.
Gong Yu also wanted to petition the emperor to order that all departments should not sell goods privately and compete with the people for profit. Anyone who violated the regulations would be removed from office, reduced in rank, and not allowed to enter the official career again.
Gong Yu also said: During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he advocated integrity and despised corruption. Those who bought business, married into the family, and officials who committed corruption or bribery were all imprisoned for life and were not allowed to serve as officials. He rewarded good deeds and punished evildoers. He did not favor relatives. If the evidence is conclusive, he will be killed according to the law. If the evidence of the crime cannot be confirmed, he will be punished with a lighter sentence. There is no provision for atonement. Therefore, the order and prohibition are implemented and the world is governed. A total of 400 cases are tried and judged in the country. It is no different from no one breaking the law and the criminal law is idle.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he respected talents, appointed scholars, and expanded the territory for thousands of miles. He thought that his achievements were great and his prestige was high, so he began to indulge in extravagance and indulgence. When the expenses were insufficient, he changed various old regulations so that offenders could use money and things to atone for their sins, and paid a certain amount of grain to make up for their duties as officials. As a result, luxury prevailed in the world, the government was in chaos, the people were poor, thieves and desperadoes arose in droves.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
郡国恐伏其诛，则择便巧吏书习于计簿能欺上府者，以为右职；奸轨不胜，则取勇猛能操切百姓者，以苛暴威服下者，使居大位。
故亡义而有财者显于世，欺谩而善书者尊于朝，悖逆而勇猛者贵于官。
故俗皆曰： 何以孝弟为？
财多而光荣。
何以礼义为？
史书而仕宦。
何以谨慎为？
勇猛而临官。
故黥劓而髡钳者犹复攘臂为政于世，行虽犬彘，家富势足，目指气使，是为贤耳。
故谓居官而置富者为雄桀，处奸而得利者为壮士，兄劝其弟，父勉其子，俗之坏败，乃至于是！
察其所以然者，皆以犯法得赎罪，求士不得真贤，相，守崇财利，诛不行之所致也。
translation: 
The counties and states were afraid of disaster, so they chose people who were proficient in anecdotes, good at writing, familiar with tax books, and good at deceiving superior officials with clever words. As evil and evil things happened incessantly, they appointed people who were ruthless and able to control the people, and people who could use harsh and cruel methods to coerce people into submission, and put them in important positions.
Therefore, those who are dishonest but rich are prominent in the world, those who are deceitful but good at writing are honored in the court, and those who are rebellious, arrogant and cruel and fearless are in high positions.
Therefore, there is a saying among the people: What is the use of filial piety?
Having more money brings glory.
What's the point of etiquette?
If you are good at writing, you will be distinguished.
Why be cautious?
You can become an official if you are ruthless and cruel.
Therefore, people who have been punished by various punishments such as tattoos, tattoos, tunics, and pincers also rise up to participate in politics in the world. Although they behave like pigs and dogs, they are rich, powerful, and bossy, making them so-called virtuous people.
Therefore, those who become rich by serving as officials are regarded as heroes, and those who are treacherous and gain profits are called brave men. The elder brother encourages his younger brother, and the father encourages his son to follow his own path. The social atmosphere has deteriorated to such an extent!
Investigating the reasons, they are all due to the fact that atonement is allowed for breaking the law, true talents cannot be obtained when seeking scholars, the county officials are greedy for money and personal gain, and punitive measures are not implemented effectively.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
今欲兴至治，致太平，宜除赎罪之法。
相、守选举不以实，及有臧者，辄行其诛，亡但免官，则争尽力为善，贵孝弟，贱贾人，进真贤，举实廉，而天下治矣。
孔子，匹夫之人耳，以乐道正身不解之故，四海之内，天下之君，微孔子之言亡所折中。
况乎以汉地之广，陛下之德，处南面之尊，秉万乘之权，因天地之助，其于变世易俗，调和阴阳，陶冶万物，化正天下，易于决流抑队。
自成、康以来，几且千岁，欲为治者甚众，然而太平不复兴者，何也？
以其舍法度而任私意，奢侈行而仁义废也。
陛下诚深念高祖之苦，醇法太宗之治，正已以先下，选贤以自辅，开进忠正，致诛奸臣、远放谄佞，赦出园陵之女，罢倡乐，绝郑声，去甲乙之帐，退伪薄之物，修节俭之化，驱天下之民皆归于农，如此不解，则三王可侔，五帝可及。
唯陛下留意省察，天下幸甚。
translation: 
Nowadays, if we want to revitalize society, achieve great governance, and bring peace to the world, we should abolish the law of atonement.
If the princes, state ministers and governors select and recommend talents that are not true, and those who engage in corruption, they must be resolutely punished and not just removed from office. In this way, everyone will try their best to do good, praise those who are filial to their parents, friendly to their brothers, and spurn those who are merchants and profit-seekers. If they recommend and promote truly capable and honest people, the world will be well governed.
Confucius was just an ordinary common man. Because he devoted himself to the Tao and cultivated himself unremittingly, all the kings in the four seas and the world used Confucius' words as the standard for judging right and wrong.
What's more, with the vast territory of the Han Dynasty, and the profound virtues of His Majesty, he occupies the noble position of a king and holds the power of the world. With the help of heaven and earth, it is easier to change the world, change folk customs, reconcile yin and yang, educate all things, and rectify the world than opening rivers to drain water and stopping things that are about to fall.
It has been nearly a thousand years since the Sheng Chen Dynasty. During this period, many people wanted to rule the world. However, the peaceful and prosperous age has never appeared again. Why is this?
It is because they abandon the law and indulge in selfish desires, luxury becomes popular and benevolence and righteousness disappear.
If Your Majesty sincerely remembers the hardships of our ancestors in starting a business, fully imitates Taizong's way of governing the country, corrects his words and deeds to set an example for his subordinates, chooses virtuous people to assist him, recruits loyal people, punishes treacherous officials, stays away from flatterers, and releases the women in the gardens and mausoleums, Put an end to singing and dancing, put an end to extravagant music, remove redundant decorative curtains, abandon flashy things, educate people all over the world to be diligent and frugal, and guide people all over the world to return to agricultural production. If you persevere like this, then the great achievements of the Three Emperors and the Five Emperors can be compared.
If your Majesty can pay attention to and examine this, it will be a great blessing to the world.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
天子下其议，令民产子七岁乃出口钱，自此始。
又罢上林宫馆希幸御者，及省建章、甘泉宫卫卒，减诸侯王庙卫卒，省其半。
余虽未尽从，然嘉其质直之意。
禹又奏欲罢郡国庙，定汉宗庙迭毁之礼，皆未施行。
为御史大夫数月卒，天子赐钱百万，以其子为郎，官至东郡都尉。
禹卒后，上追思其议，竟下诏罢郡国庙，定迭毁之礼。
然通儒或非之，语在《韦玄成传》。
两龚皆楚人也，胜字君宾，舍字君倩。
二人相友，并著名节，故世谓之楚两龚。
少皆好学明经，胜为郡吏，舍不仕。
久之，楚王入朝，闻舍高名，聘舍为常侍，不得已随王，归国固辞，愿卒学，复至长安。
而胜为郡吏，三举孝廉，以王国人不得宿卫补吏，再为尉，一为丞，胜辄至官乃去。
州举茂才，为重泉令，病去官。
大司空何武、执金吾阎崇荐胜，哀帝自为定陶王固已闻其名，征为谏大夫。
引见，胜荐龚舍及亢父甯寿、济阴侯嘉，有诏皆征。
胜曰： 窃见国家征医巫，常为驾，征贤者宜驾。
translation: 
After the emperor's memorial was approved and forwarded, the people were ordered to pay oral money after the child was seven years old. This rule began from then on.
He also abolished those places in the Shanglin Palace where there were few opportunities to visit, reduced the guards in Jianzhang and Ganquan Palaces, and reduced the guards in the princes' temples by half.
Although he did not fully follow Gong Yu's suggestions in other aspects, Emperor Yuan praised him for his loyalty and uprightness.
Gongyu went to court again, requesting that the temples in the prefecture and state be abolished, and formulating the ritual system that the Han family's ancestral temples would be destroyed if they had relatives, but they could not be implemented.
Gong Yu died a few months after he became the imperial censor. The Emperor of the Yuan Dynasty gave him a million yuan and appointed his son as Lang, and he was promoted to the Duwei of Shu County.
After Gong Yu's death, Emperor Yuan recalled his suggestion, and finally ordered the destruction of temples in the prefecture and state, and established the system of destroying temples in person.
However, these measures were criticized by some knowledgeable Confucian scholars at that time. For details, see "The Biography of Wei Xuancheng".
Both Gongs were from the Chu state, Gong Sheng was given the courtesy name Junbin, and Gong She was given the courtesy name Junqian.
The two are good friends and both are famous for their integrity. Therefore, the world calls them Chu and Gong.
When they were young, both Gongs were eager to learn and knew the classics well. Gong Sheng became a county official, while Gong She did not hold an official position.
After a long time, the King of Chu was preparing to go to Beijing to meet the emperor. He heard that Gong She had a high reputation and hired him as a regular attendant. Gong She had no choice but to follow the King of Chu to the court. After returning to the kingdom, he resolutely asked to resign, hoping to concentrate on completing his studies, so he came to Chang'an again.
Gong Sheng was a county official and was promoted to Xiaolian three times, but because he was from the kingdom, he could not serve as a palace guard. Later he was appointed as an official, twice as a lieutenant and once as a prime minister. Each time Gong Sheng resigned soon after taking office.
Later, he was recommended by the state as Maocai and served as magistrate of Chongquan County. He resigned due to illness.
Grand Sikong Hewu and Zhijinwu Yan Chong recommended Gong Sheng. Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty had already heard of his reputation when he was king of Dingtao, so he recruited Gong Sheng as an admonishment official.
When Gong Sheng entered the capital and was escorted to see Emperor Ai, he recommended Gong She, Ning Shou of Kang's father, and Hou Jia of Jiyin to Emperor Ai. Emperor Ai issued an edict to recruit them all to the court.
Gong Sheng said: I saw that when the country recruits doctors and wizards, it often prepares carriages for them. When recruiting virtuous people, it should also prepare carriages and horses for them.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
上曰： 大夫乘私车来耶？
胜曰： 唯唯。
有诏为驾。龚舍、侯嘉至，皆为谏大夫。
甯寿称疾不至。
胜居谏官，数上书求见，言百姓贫，盗贼多，吏不良，风俗薄，灾异数见，不可不忧。
制度泰奢，刑罚泰深，赋敛泰重，宜以俭约先下。
其言祖述王吉、贡禹之意。
为大夫二岁余，迁丞相司直，徒光禄大夫，守右扶风。
数月，上知胜非拨烦吏，乃复还胜光禄大夫、诸吏给事中。
胜言董贤乱制度，由是逆上指。
后岁余，丞相王嘉上书荐故廷尉梁相等，尚书劾奏嘉 言事恣意，迷国罔上，不道。
下将军中朝者议，左将军公孙禄，司隶鲍宣、光禄大夫孔光等十四人皆以为嘉应迷国不道法。
胜独书议曰： 嘉资性邪僻，所举多贪残吏。
位列三公，阴阳不和，诸事并废，咎皆繇嘉，迷国不疑，今举相等，过微薄。
translation: 
Emperor Ai asked: Did you come in your own car?
Gong Sheng said: Yes.
Therefore, Emperor Ai ordered chariots and horses to be prepared for the conscripts and went to greet them. Gong She and Hou Jia came from Shao and were appointed as admonishing officials.
Ning Shou said that the illness had not yet come.
After Gong Sheng took up the post of admonisher, he wrote many times to ask for permission, stating that the people were poor, there were many thieves, the officials were bad, the world was weak, and disasters occurred frequently, so he had to worry and be vigilant.
The state's regulatory fees are too lenient, the penalties are too severe, and the taxes are too severe. We should set an example for the world by being frugal and loose.
The purpose of his speech is to explain the meaning of Wang Ji and Gong Yu.
He served as an admonishing doctor for more than two years, and was promoted to Prime Minister Sizhi. He was also moved to Guanglu doctor to act as an agent for You Fufeng.
After a few months, Emperor Ai realized that he was not good at handling complicated government affairs, so he resumed his old position and appointed Dr. Guanglu and other officials as ministers.
Gong Sheng accused Dong Xian of confusing the Chao Gang system and thus disobeying Emperor Ai's will.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Wang Jia wrote a letter recommending the former court captain Liang Xiang and others. The Minister reported to the emperor to impeach Wang Jia, saying that he spoke casually, was irresponsible, confused the people of the country, and deceived the emperor, which was treason.
The emperor sent this impeachment to the generals and ministers of the court for discussion. Fourteen people including Zuo General Gongsun Lu, Si Li Bao Xuan, and Guanglu doctor Kong Guang all believed that Wang Jia had indeed violated the unethical laws of the country.
Only Gong Sheng wrote a letter saying: Wang Jia is evil in nature, and most of the people he recommends are greedy and cruel officials.
He is one of the Three Dukes, Yin and Yang are at odds with each other, and everything is aborted. The fault lies all with Wang Jia. There is no doubt that he committed the crime of confusing the country. However, recommending Liang Xiang and others this time is not a big mistake.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
日暮议者罢。
明旦复会，左将军禄问胜： 君议亡所据，今奏当上，宜何从？
胜曰： 将军以胜议不可者，通劾之。
博士夏侯常见胜应禄不和，起至胜前谓曰： 宜如奏所言。
胜以手推常曰： 去！
后数日，复会议可复孝惠、孝景庙不，议者皆曰宜复。胜曰： 当如礼。
常复谓胜： 礼有变。
胜疾言曰： 去！
是时之变。
常恚，谓胜曰： 我视君何若，君欲小与众异，外以采名，君乃申徒狄属耳！
先是，常又为胜道高陵有子杀母者，胜白之，尚书问： 谁受？
对曰： 受夏侯常。
尚书使胜问常，常连恨胜，即应曰： 闻之白衣，戒君勿言也。奏事不详，妄作触罪。
translation: 
In the evening, the discussion ended.
The discussion continued the next day. General Zuo Gongsun Lu asked Gong Sheng: "Your argument yesterday was unfounded. Today, the results of the discussion will be reported to the emperor. Which opinion will you ultimately decide to obey?"
Gong Sheng said: If the general thinks my opinion is inappropriate, he can impeach me as well.
Dr. Xia Hou saw that the conversation between Gong Sheng and Gongsun Lu was unpleasant, so he got up and went to Gong Sheng and said to him: You should agree with what Shangshu said.
Gong Sheng pushed Xia Houchang and said: "Go away!"
A few days later, the ministers gathered again to discuss whether Xiaohui and Xiaojing temples could be restored. All the participants said they should be restored, but Gong Sheng said: etiquette should be followed.
Xia Houchang said to Gong Sheng: "The etiquette system has also changed."
Gong Sheng immediately retorted: Go away!
Times have changed.
Xia Houchang became angry and said to Gong Bo, "Do you know what I think of you?" If you want to be unconventional and deliberately different from others in order to gain favor and gain fame, you are just like people like Shentu Di in the late Yin Dynasty!
Before that, Xiahou Chang had told Gong Sheng that a man in Gaoling had killed his mother. Gong Sheng reported the matter to his superiors, and the minister asked: Who did you listen to?
Gong Sheng replied: Listen to what Xia Hou often said.
The minister asked him to ask Xia Houchang for details again. Lou Mi reprimanded Xiabao rewards one after another during the political discussion. He was very angry with Gong Sheng, so he replied: I just listened to what the servants in the government said casually, and I asked you not to talk about it outside. Why did you report it to the superiors? If you don't know the details of the incident, you will be punished if you casually report it to the authorities.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
胜穷，无以对尚书，即自劾奏与常争言，洿辱朝廷。
事下御史中丞，召诘问，劾奏 胜吏二千石，常位大夫，皆幸得给事中，与论议，不崇礼义，而居公门下相非恨，疾言辩讼，惰谩亡状，皆不敬。
制曰： 贬秩各一等。
胜谢罪，乞骸骨。
上乃复加赏赐，以子博为侍郎，出胜为渤海太守。
胜谢病不任之官，积六月免归。
上复征为光禄大夫，胜常称疾卧，数使子上书乞骸骨，会哀帝崩。
初，琅邪邴汉亦以清行征用，至京兆尹，后为太中大夫。
王莽秉政，胜与汉俱乞骸骨。
自昭帝时，涿郡韩福以德行征至京师，赐策书束帛遣归。
translation: 
Gong Sheng had no way to explain to the minister, so he wrote a letter to impeach himself, saying that quarreling with Xiahou often was an insult to the dignity of the court.
The matter was reported to Yushi Zhongcheng, who summoned Gong Sheng and Xia Houchang to question him and impeached him, saying: Gong Sheng was an official of two thousand shi, and Xia Hou always held the position of a high official. They were all fortunate enough to participate in the affairs of the court, but they did not respect the etiquette and justice of the court. They were in public office, but they criticized and resented each other, quarreled and debated loudly, and said and acted wantonly without any reason. These are all disrespectful behaviors.
The emperor ordered: Each of them was demoted one level.
Gong Sheng apologized and asked to resign and return to his hometown.
The emperor also rewarded him, appointed his son Gong Bo as his minister, and appointed Gong Sheng as the governor of Bohai.
Gong Sheng refused to take up his post, claiming to be ill. He was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown six months later.
Emperor Ai also recruited Gong Sheng as Doctor Guanglu. Gong Sheng often claimed to be ill and bedridden, and many times asked his son to write letters requesting to be dismissed from office and return home, which coincided with the death of Emperor Ai.
At the beginning, Bing Han, a native of Langxie, was also recruited because of his noble character. He was promoted to Jing Zhaoyin and later became a doctor in Taizhong.
After Wang Mang became proficient in government affairs, both Gong Sheng and Bing Han requested to retire and return home.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Han Fu, a native of Zhuojun, was recruited to Chang'an, the capital, for his outstanding virtues. Emperor Zhao gave him a policy letter and a bundle of silk to allow him to return to his hometown.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
诏曰： 朕闵劳以官职之事，其务修孝弟以教乡里。
行道舍传舍，县次具酒肉，食从者及马。
长吏以时存问，常以岁八月赐羊一头，酒二斛。
不幸死者，赐複衾一，祠以中牢。
于是王莽依故事，白遣胜、汉。
策曰： 惟元始二年六月庚寅，光禄大夫、太中大夫耆艾二人以老病罢。
太皇太后使谒者仆射策诏之曰：盖闻古者有司年至则致仕，所以恭让而不尽其力也。
今大夫年至矣，朕愍以官职之事烦大夫，其上子若孙若同产、同产子一人。
大夫其修身守道，以终高年。
赐帛及行道舍宿，岁时羊酒衣衾，皆如韩福故事。
所上子男皆除为郎。
translation: 
The edict was issued: I can't bear to let you worry about state affairs at such an old age. After returning to your hometown, please work hard to educate the villagers with the principles of filial piety and brotherhood.
On the way back home, you can eat, sleep and rest in the government's post station. Counties along the way must prepare wine and meat to provide food and drink for your entourage, carriages and horses.
The local officials in Zhuo County should pay regular condolences and give him a sheep and two hugs of wine every August.
If he dies unfortunately, the government will give him a funeral quilt and perform sacrifices according to the rites of the prison.
When sending them, Wang Mang followed the old rules and gave permission to send Gong Sheng and Bing Han back to their hometowns.
He also wrote a policy letter saying: In June of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, two old men, Dr. Guanglu and Dr. Taizhong, resigned from office due to old age and serious illness.
The Empress Dowager sent an emissary, Pushe, to convey Shao Ling to them: I heard that in ancient times, officials resigned and went into seclusion when they reached a certain age, in order to respect the latter and preserve a certain amount of spare power.
Now that the two officials are old, I can no longer bother them with official matters. You can choose one of your sons, grandsons, brothers, or brothers' sons to serve in the court.
After the doctor returns home, please cultivate your moral integrity and live a peaceful life.
They were given cloth and allowed to rest overnight at various inns along the way. The specifications of the sheep, wine, clothes and quilts provided by the government on time every year were in accordance with Han Fu's old practice.
One of the recommended children, grandchildren, brothers of the same clan, or sons of brothers will be appointed as Lang.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
于是胜、汉遂归老于乡里。
汉兄子曼容亦养志自修，为官不肯过六百石，辄自免去，其名过出于汉。
初，龚舍以龚胜荐，征为谏大夫，病免。
复征为博士，又病去。
顷之，哀帝遣使者即楚拜舍为太山太守。
舍家居在武原，使者至县请舍，欲令至廷拜授印绶。
舍曰： 王者以天下为家，何必县官？
遂于家受诏，便道之官。
既至数月，上书乞骸骨。
上征舍，至京兆东湖界，固称病笃。
于子使使者收印绶，拜舍为光禄大夫。
数赐告，舍终不肯起，乃遣归。
舍亦通《五经》，以《鲁诗》教授。
舍、胜既归乡里，郡二千石长吏初到官皆至其家，如师弟子之礼。
translation: 
So Gong Sheng and Bing Han returned to their hometown.
Bing Han's elder brother's son was named Manrong. He was also capable of self-cultivation and determination. He refused to exceed the rank of six hundred shi as an official. Once he exceeded 600 shi, he would be dismissed from office and resigned. His reputation surpassed that of Bing Han.
At first, Gong She was recruited as an admonishing doctor because of Gong Sheng's recommendation, but he was dismissed due to illness.
Later, he was recruited as a doctor and resigned due to illness.
Soon, Emperor Moai sent an envoy to Chu State to worship Gong She as the governor of Taishan.
Gong She lived in Wuyuan, and the envoy went to the county to invite Gong She, who was going to go to the county government hall to worship and receive the seal.
Gong She said: The king regards the world as his home, so why must he go to the county government hall to receive Shao orders?
So he accepted Shao Shu at his home and took office on the road.
A few months after taking office, he wrote a letter requesting to retire and return to his hometown.
The emperor also recruited Gong She to serve in Hu County in the Jingzhaoshu region, but Gong She refused because he was seriously ill.
The emperor had no choice but to send an envoy to take back the seal ribbon and worship Gong She as Guanglu doctor.
The emperor warned him many times, but Gong She still refused to accept the appointment, so the emperor had to let him return home.
Gong She was also familiar with the "Five Classics" and once taught his disciples "Lu Shi".
After Gong She and Gong Sheng retired and returned to their hometowns, the chief officials of their counties and counties, such as Erqian Shi and other officials, would come to their homes to pay tribute to teachers and students when they first took office.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
舍年六十八，王莽居摄中卒。
莽既篡国，遣五威将帅行天下风俗，将帅亲奉羊、酒存问胜。
明年，莽遣使者即拜胜为讲学祭酒，胜称疾不应征。
后二年，莽复遣使者奉玺书，太子师友祭酒印绶，安车驷马迎胜，即拜，秩上卿，先赐六月禄直以办装，使者与郡太守、县长吏、三老官属、行义诸生千人以上入胜里致诏。
使者欲令胜起迎，久立门外，胜称病笃，为床室中户西南牖下，东首加朝服拕绅。
使者入户，西行南面立，致诏付玺书，迁延再拜奉印绶，内安车驷马，进谓胜曰： 圣朝未尝忘君，制作未定，待君为政，思闻所欲施行，以安海内 。
胜对曰： 素愚，加以年老被病，命在朝夕，随使君上道，必死道路，无益万分。
使者要说，至以印绶就加胜身，胜辄推不受。
使者即上言： 方盛夏暑热，胜病少气，可须秋凉乃发。
有诏许。
使者五日一与太守俱问起居，为胜两子及门人高晖等言： 朝廷虚心待君以茅土之封，虽疾病，宜动移至传舍，示有行意，必为子孙遗大业。
晖等白使者语，胜自知不见听，即谓晖等： 吾受汉家厚恩，无以报，今年老矣，旦暮入地，谊岂以一身事二姓，下见故主哉？
胜因敕以棺敛丧事： 衣周于身，棺周于衣。
勿随俗动吾冢，种柏，作祠堂。
translation: 
Gong She died at the age of sixty-eight when Wang Mang was regent.
After Wang Mang usurped the state power, he sent General Wuwei to inspect the customs of the world. The general personally visited Gong Sheng with fat sheep and wine.
The next year, Wang Mang sent an envoy to pay homage to Gong Sheng for giving lectures and offering wine. Gong Sheng refused to enlist because he was ill.
Two years later, Wang Mang sent an envoy with the seal of the imperial edict and the seal and ribbon of the prince's mentor and friends, and sent a four-horse chariot to greet Gong Sheng in a grand manner. He planned to go to Gong Sheng's hometown to worship him as a high-ranking official with the rank of high minister, and to give him a gift in advance. Gong Sheng received six months' salary so that he could buy his luggage. Wang Mang's envoys, together with more than a thousand people including the prefect, county magistrates, three elders, prominent people in the township, and disciples, came to the village where Gong Sheng lived to deliver the edict.
The messenger wanted Gong Sheng to stand up and greet him, so he stood outside the door and waited for a long time. Gong Sheng claimed that he was seriously ill and could not get up to greet him, so he set up a bed under the south window of the west room of his home. He wore court clothes and lay on the bed with his head facing east.
The envoy entered the house, walked west, then stood facing south, conveyed the edict, handed over the seal, then stepped back and saluted again, presented the seal and ribbon, and drove the welcoming chariots and horses into the courtyard. Before entering, he said to Gong Sheng: The holy dynasty has not forgotten you, old man. The world system is not yet settled, and I look forward to your participation in political affairs. I hope to hear your suggestions and guidance on the country's major policies, so as to stabilize the world.
Gong Sheng replied: I have always been ignorant, and because of my old age and illness, my life is on the line. If I follow you on the road, I will definitely die on the way. This will be of no benefit to the country or to myself.
The envoy tried his best to persuade and even went forward to put the seal and ribbon on Gong Sheng, but Gong Sheng refused.
The messenger had no choice but to report to Wang Mang: It is now the scorching heat of summer, and Gong Sheng is physically ill and weak, so it is not suitable to go out. He can wait until the autumn cools before embarking on the road.
Wang Mang issued an edict and agreed.
The messenger came with the prefect every five days to ask about his diet, daily life and physical condition, and said to Gong Sheng's two sons and disciples Gao Hui and others: The imperial court is humbly looking forward to Mr. Gong Sheng and wants to make him a marquis. Even if he is seriously ill, he should get up and live in the post to show his intention to go. This will definitely leave a great legacy for future generations.
Gao Hui and others told Gong Sheng what the envoy said. Gong Sheng knew that his words were not listened to, so he said to Gao Hui and others: I have received great kindness from the Han royal family, and I can't repay it. Now that I am old, I may die at any time. Can I serve two surnames all my life, and then go to the underworld to see my old master after my death?
So Gong Sheng ordered his descendants to prepare a coffin and other funeral matters for him, saying: After I die, as long as my clothes are not exposed, my clothes are not exposed.
Do not follow the current social trend and bury many items along with the tomb to avoid excavation. Do not plant pines and cypresses or build an ancestral hall next to the tomb.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
语毕，遂不复开口饮食，积十四日死，死时七十九矣。
使者、太守临敛，赐複衾祭祠如法。
门人衰绖治丧者百数。
有老父来吊，哭甚哀，既而曰： 嗟乎！
薰以香自烧，膏以明自销。
龚生竟夭天年，非吾徒也。
遂趋而出，莫知其谁。
胜居彭城廉里，后世刻石表其里门。
鲍宣字子都，渤海高城人也。
好学，明经，为县乡啬夫，守束州丞。
后为都尉、太守功曹，举孝廉为郎，病去官，复为州从事。
大司马、卫将军王商辟宣，荐为议郎，后以病去。
哀帝初，大司空何武除宣为西曹掾，甚敬重焉，荐宣为谏大夫，迁豫州牧。
translation: 
After giving the instructions, he stopped eating or drinking, and passed away fourteen days later at the age of seventy-nine.
Envoys and prefects all came to attend the funeral. According to the old customs, they were given quilts and offered sacrifices to the temple in the style of a prison.
Hundreds of his disciples wore mourning clothes to pay their respects.
An old man came to express his condolences and cried sadly. After crying, he said: Alas!
Lavender burns itself because of its fragrance, and oil burns itself because it can illuminate.
Gong Sheng died before his full life. He was not my kind of person!
After saying that, he hurried out of the door. No one knew who he was.
Gong Sheng lived in Lianli, Pengcheng, and later generations carved stones to commemorate his hometown gate.
Bao Xuan, courtesy name Zidu, was born in Gaocheng, Bohai Sea.
Diligent and studious, proficient in classics and meanings, he first served as a miserly official in the county and township, and temporarily acted as the county magistrate of Shuzhou.
Later, he became a meritorious officer of the Duwei Prefecture. He was elected as a Lang due to his filial piety and integrity. He resigned due to illness and worked for the state again.
Wang Shang, the general of Sima Wei, once conquered Bao Xuan and recommended him as Yilang, but he later resigned due to illness.
When Emperor Ai came to the throne, the great Sikong Hewu worshiped Bao Xuan as the Western Cao Dynasty. He respected him very much and recommended him as an admonishment official. He was also transferred to Yuzhou as a pastor.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
岁余，丞相司直郭钦奏 宣举错烦苛，代二千石署吏听讼，所察过诏条。
行部乘传去法驾，驾一马，舍宿乡亭，为众所非。
宣坐免。
归家数月，复征为谏大夫。
宣每居位，常上书谏争，其言少文多实。
是时，帝祖母傅太后欲与成帝母俱称尊号，封爵亲属，丞相孔光、大司空师丹、何武、大司马傅喜始执正议，失傅太后指，皆免官。
丁、傅子弟并进，董贤贵幸，宣以谏大夫从其后，上书谏曰：
窃见孝成皇帝时，外亲持权，人人牵引所私以充塞朝廷，妨贤人路，浊乱天下，奢泰亡度，穷困百姓，是以日蚀且十，彗星四起。
危亡之征，陛下所亲见也，今奈何反复剧于前乎？
translation: 
More than a year later, Prime Minister Si Zhi Guo Qin reported: Bao Xuan's administration was cumbersome and harsh. He appointed officials to handle lawsuits on behalf of the county governor, and the issues he supervised exceeded the regulations established by the emperor.
When he went out for inspection, he did not follow the regulations for driving. He drove a horse and stayed in a pavilion overnight, which was criticized by everyone.
Bao Xuan was dismissed as a result.
A few months after returning home, he was recruited as an admonishing doctor.
When Bao Xuan was an official, he often wrote letters to give advice and argue with reason. His words were rarely empty, but they were simple and relevant to the current situation.
At that time, Emperor Ai's grandmother, Empress Dowager Fu, wanted to have the same title as Emperor Cheng's mother, and to confer officials and titles on her relatives. Prime Minister Kong Guang, Grand Sikong Shidan, He Wu, Grand Sima Fu Xi and others insisted on justice from the beginning, so they violated Empress Dowager Fu's will, and were dismissed from office.
The relatives of Ding and Fu were promoted, and Dong Xian was favored and became prominent. Bao Xuan, as a remonstrating official, followed Kong Guang, Shi Dan, He Wu, Fu happy and others, and wrote a letter to remonstrate:
I saw privately that when Emperor Xiaocheng was in power, his relatives were in power, and everyone attracted their close relatives to fill the court, blocking the advancement of virtuous people, making the world chaotic, extravagant, and the people poor. As a result, there were nearly ten solar eclipses in the sky and comets appeared four times.
Your Majesty saw those signs of danger with your own eyes. Why are they worse now than before?


Chunk 33: 
original: 
朝臣亡有大儒骨鲠、白首耆艾、魁垒之士，论议通古今、喟然动众心、忧国如饥渴者，臣未见也。
敦外亲小童及幸臣董贤等在公门省户下，陛下欲与此共承天地，安海内，甚难。
今世俗谓不智者为能，谓智者为不能。
昔尧放四罪而天下服，今除一吏而众皆惑；古刑人尚服，今赏人反惑。
请寄为奸，群小日进。
国家空虚，用度不足。
民流亡，去城郭，盗贼并起，吏为残贼，岁增于前。
translation: 
Among the ministers of the imperial court, there were no upright Confucian scholars, no senior and experienced old people, and no strong warriors. There was no one who was familiar with ancient and modern history, could respond to a hundred calls, and worried about the country and the people as if he was hungry and thirsty but thought about food.
He relied heavily on his foreign cousin Xiaotong and his sycophantic minister Dong Xian to occupy important positions in the imperial court. It would be difficult for Your Majesty to work with these people to carry out destiny and stabilize the world.
Nowadays, the world regards people who lack wisdom as capable people, and people who are talented as incompetent.
In the past, Emperor Yao of the Tang Dynasty exiled four sinners, Gonggong, Guandou, Sanmiao, and Gun, and the world surrendered. Today, when he appoints an official, everyone is doubtful. In ancient times, people were still obedient when they were punished, but now they are rewarded and people are doubtful.
They ask each other to carry out treacherous plots, and the interests of the villain are put to good use.
The state treasury is empty and expenses are insufficient.
The people went into exile and left the city, thieves swarmed in, and officials harmed the people, which became more and more serious every year.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
凡民有七亡：阴阳不和，水旱为灾，一亡也；县官重责更赋租税，二亡也；贪吏并公，受取不已，三亡也；豪强大姓蚕食亡厌，四亡也；苛吏徭役，失农桑时，五亡也；部落鼓鸣，男女遮列，六亡也；盗贼劫略，取民财物，七亡也。
七亡尚可，又有七死：酷吏殴杀，一死也；治狱深刻，二死也；冤陷亡辜，三死也；盗贼横发，四死也；怨雠相残，五死也；岁恶饥饿，六死也；时气疾疫，七死也。
民有七亡而无一得，欲望国安，诚难；民有七死而无一生，欲望刑措，诚难。
此非公卿、守、相贪残成化之所致邪？
群臣幸得居尊官，食重禄，岂有肯加恻隐于细民，助陛下流教化者邪？
志但在营私家，称宾客，为奸利而已。
以苟容曲从为贤。以拱默尸禄为智，谓如臣宣等为愚。
translation: 
There are seven reasons for the unemployment and displacement of the common people: first, the yin and yang are not in harmony, and floods and droughts cause disasters; second, the county magistrates impose heavy taxes and new taxes; third, corrupt officials embezzle public property and continuously plunder; fourth, powerful families encroach upon the land. Insatiable; fifth, the harsh and violent officials imposed corvee duties, which delayed the farming season; sixth, the sound of drums and drums to warn thieves was heard from time to time in rural villages, and people, regardless of gender, had to go out to attack and hunt; seventh, thieves robbed and plundered people's property.
Not to mention these seven causes of people being displaced and unemployed, there are also seven factors that lead to people's death: first, being killed by cruel officials; second, the verdict and sentencing are too harsh and harsh; third, unjustly framed innocent people; fourth, thieves suddenly appear; fifth, those who have grudges kill each other; sixth, the harvest is poor and people suffer from famine; seventh, the climate is bad and diseases are prevalent.
It is really difficult for the country to have stability when the people suffer seven losses and nothing is gained; it is also difficult for the people to put aside the punishment when they suffer seven deaths but nothing to live.
Isn't this situation caused by the greed and cruelty of local officials such as ministers and county governors?
Ministers are fortunate enough to hold high positions and receive generous salaries. Who among them can sympathize with the sufferings of the people and assist His Majesty in imparting kindness and enlightenment?
Their thoughts are only used to run private interests, recruit and buy guests, and covet illegitimate benefits.
Everyone considers flattery and obedience as virtuous, and being wise and protecting oneself while only receiving salary as a silent person is considered smart, while people like me who dare to speak out are regarded as stupid.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
陛下擢臣岩穴，诚冀有益毫毛，岂徒欲使臣美食大官，重高门之地哉！
天下乃皇天之天下也，陛下上为皇太子，下为黎庶父母，为天牧养元元，视之当如一，合《尸鸠》之诗。
今贫民菜食不厌，衣又穿空，父子夫妇不能相保，诚可为酸鼻。
陛下不救，将安所归命乎？
奈何独私养外亲与幸臣董贤，多赏赐以大万数，使奴从宾客浆酒霍肉，苍头庐儿皆用致富！
非天意也。
及汝昌侯傅商亡功而封。
夫官爵非陛下之官爵，乃天下之官爵也。
陛下取非其官，官非其人，而望天说民服，岂不难哉！
方阳侯孙宠、宜陵侯息夫躬辩足以移众，强可用独立，奸人之雄，或世尤剧者也，宜以时罢退。
及外亲幼童未通经术者，皆宜令休就师傅。
translation: 
Your Majesty, you select your ministers in the caves of the mountains, in the hope that they will be of help to the court and the country. Does your Majesty just want your ministers to enjoy high-ranking officials, rich salaries, fine clothes and fine food, in order to increase the majesty of the palace?
The world belongs to the Emperor. Your Majesty is the son of the Emperor above and the parents of the people below. He rules and raises all living beings on behalf of the Emperor. You should treat them equally, just as the poem "Corpse Dove" in the Book of Songs says.
Nowadays, the poor people have no food to eat, no clothing to cover their bodies, and father and son are unable to protect each other. It is really sad.
If Your Majesty does not save them, where will they end up?
Why do you only treat your relatives and fortunate minister Dong Xian favorably, and give them tens of thousands of rewards, so that their servants, servants and retainers regard wine and meat as the most common and low-grade food, and even the servants and servants have become rich!
This is against God's will.
As for Fu Shang, the Marquis of Ruchang, he was awarded a title without merit.
The official title is not His Majesty's official title, but the official title of the world.
How is it possible for Your Majesty to confer an official title that does not belong to you to someone who is not worthy of the official title, but still expect heaven to please people?
The sophistry of Sun Chong, the Marquis of Fang Yang, and Xi Fu Gong, the Marquis of Yiling, is enough to impress everyone, and their power is strong enough to stand alone. They are the most dangerous people among the traitors, and we should find an opportunity to avoid them in time.
As for those relatives and children who do not understand the classics, they should be allowed to leave their jobs and study as teachers.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
急征故大司马傅喜使领外亲。
故大司空何武、师丹、故丞相孔光、故左将军彭宣，经皆更博士，位皆历三公，智谋威信，可与建教化，图安危。
龚胜为司直，郡国皆慎选举，三辅委输官不敢为奸，可大委任也。
陛下前以小不忍退武等，海内失望。
陛下尚能容亡功德者甚众，曾不能忍武等邪！
治天下者当用天下之心为心，不得自专快意而已也。
上之皇天见谴，下之黎庶怨恨，次有谏争之臣，陛下苟欲自薄而厚恶臣，天下犹不听也。
臣虽愚戆，独不知多受禄赐，美食太官，广田宅，厚妻子，不与恶人结仇怨以安身邪？
诚迫大义，官以谏争为职，不敢不竭愚。
translation: 
The former Grand Sima Fu happy should be immediately recruited and given command of his relatives.
The former Grand Commander He Wu and Shi Dan, the former Prime Minister Kong Guang, and the former Zuo General Peng Xuan were all proficient in classics and meanings. They had all held Ph.D. degrees, and all held the rank of Three Dukes. Their intelligence and prestige were enough to establish education and plan for the survival of the country.
With Gong Sheng as the director, the prefectures and states take elections seriously. The losing officials of the third auxiliary committee of Gyeonggi do not dare to opportunistically, so they can be entrusted with big responsibilities.
His Majesty had previously dismissed He Wu and others because of a minor dissatisfaction and could not bear it. The people of the country were very disappointed.
Since you can even tolerate that large group of people who have no merit, why can't you tolerate He Wu and others?
Those who govern the world should think about what the people in the world think, and should not act based on their own likes and dislikes.
There is condemnation from the emperor and heaven above, resentment from the people below, and even the subordinates who dare to rebuke directly rise up to fight. Even if your majesty wants to reduce your own power and increase the power of evil people, no one in the world will listen.
Although I am stupid, don't I know how to receive more salary and rewards, build a big palace, eat delicious food, expand my farm and house, raise my wife and children well, and not make grudges with evil people in order to live a stable life?
In fact, he was forced to act out of great righteousness. Officials regard admonishment as their bounden duty and dare not not exhaust their loyalty.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
惟陛下少留神明，览《五经》之文，原圣人之至意，深思天地之戒。
臣宣呐钝于辞，不胜忄卷々，尽死节而已。
上以宣名儒，优容之。
是时，郡国地震，民讹言行筹，明年正月朔日蚀，上乃征孔光，免孙宠、息夫躬，罢侍中诸曹黄门郎数十人。
宣复上书言：
陛下父事天，母事也，子养黎民，即位已来，父亏明，母震动，子讹言相惊恐。
今日蚀于三始，诚可畏惧。
小民正月朔日尚恐毁败器物，何况于日亏乎！
陛下深内自责，避正殿，举直言，求过失，罢退外亲及旁仄素餐之人，征拜孔光为光禄大夫，发觉孙宠、息夫躬过恶，免官遣就国，众庶歙然，莫不说喜。
天人同心，人心说则天意解矣。
乃二月丙戌，白虹虷日，连阴不雨，此天有忧结未解，民有怨望未塞者也。
translation: 
I hope your Majesty will pay more attention to it, read the contents of the Five Classics, explore the sincerity and profound meaning of the saints, and ponder the warnings of heaven and earth.
Chen Bao declares that his words are slow, his feelings are sincere, and he is loyal and honest.
Because Bao Xuan was a Confucian, the emperor was very tolerant of him and did not blame him.
At this time, an earthquake occurred in the county, and rumors spread among the people that they were asking for fortune-telling. There was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first lunar month of the next year. The emperor summoned Kong Guang, dismissed Sun Chong, Xifu Gong, and dismissed dozens of Cao Huangmenlang and other servants.
Bao Xuan wrote again:
Your Majesty should serve the sky as you serve your father, you should serve the earth as you serve your mother, and you should raise the people as you would your own children. Since Your Majesty came to the throne, the sky has lacked light, the earth has trembled, and rumors have spread among the people to frighten each other.
Nowadays, a solar eclipse appears at the beginning of the year, month, and day, which is really scary.
Ordinary people are afraid of destroying utensils on the first day of the first lunar month, let alone when the sun is in decline?
Your Majesty can deeply blame himself, avoid the main hall, appoint people who dare to rebuke directly to review his own mistakes, remove relatives and useless people around you who are free of salary, worship Kong Guang as the Guanglu doctor, examine the faults and sins of Sun Chong and Xifu Gong, and let them be dismissed from office and return to their own kingdoms. Everyone will be reconciled and everyone will be happy.
Heaven and man are of the same mind, and if people's hearts are at peace, then the will of Heaven will be reconciled.
By Bingxu in February, there was a white rainbow, and there was no rain. This was a sign that the sky was still full of worries and the people were still dissatisfied.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
侍中、驸马都尉董贤本无葭莩之亲，但以令色谀言自进，赏赐亡度，竭尽府藏，并合三第尚以为小，复坏暴室。
贤父子坐使天子使者将作治第，行夜吏卒皆得赏赐。
上冢有会，辄太官为供。
海内贡献当养一君，今反尽之贤家，岂天意与民意耶！
天不可久负，厚之如此，反所以害之也。
诚欲哀贤，宜为谢过天地，解仇海内，免遣就国，收乘舆器物，还之县官。
如此，可以父子终其性命；不者，海内之所仇，未有得久安者也。
孙宠、息夫躬不宜居国，可皆免以视天下。
复征何武、师丹、彭宣、傅喜，旷然使民易视，以应天心，建立大政，以兴太平之端。
translation: 
Dong Xian, the consort in the palace, was not related to the royal family at all, but he was promoted through clever words, flattery, and flattery. The emperor was not restrained in his rewards. He exhausted the treasury and merged three residences to give him. Although they were too small, he also gave him a place to live in a violent house.
Dong Xian and his son sat there and ordered the emperor's envoys and craftsmen to build houses, and the officials who patrolled the houses at night were rewarded.
When visiting his family's grave or having a banquet, the young official would be required to provide supplies and organize the event.
Tribute items from all over the country were originally intended to support the emperor, but now they are all concentrated in Dong Xian's home. Isn't this in line with God's will and the people's will?
God's will and the people's heart cannot be let down for a long time. Treating Dong Xian so favorably is actually harming him.
If your Majesty really loves Dong Xian, you should apologize to heaven and earth for him, eliminate the resentment of the people in the world against him, remove him from his official position, let him return to his feudal country, confiscate his carriage and various utensils, and return them to the county magistrate.
In this way, father and son can still live the rest of their lives in peace; otherwise, those who are hated by the world will not be able to live a stable life for a long time.
Sun Chong and Xi Fu Gong are not suitable for holding important positions. They can be dismissed to show the world.
He Wu, Shi Dan, Peng Xuan, Fu happy and others were requisitioned to enable the people to see a clear and cheerful new atmosphere, to comply with the emperor's will, to establish a sound political system, and to revive the cause of peace in the world.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
高门去省户数十步，求见出入，二年未省，欲使海濒仄陋自通，远矣！
愿赐数刻之间，极竭毣々之思，退入三泉，死亡所恨。
上感大异，纳宣言，征何武、彭宣，旬月皆复为三公。
拜宣为司隶。
时，哀帝改司隶校尉但为司隶，官比司直。
丞相孔光四时行园陵，官属以令行驰道中，宣出逢之，使吏钩止丞相掾史，没入其车马，摧辱宰相。
事下御史，中丞、侍御史至司隶官，欲捕从事，闭门不肯内。
宣坐距闭使者，亡人臣礼，大不敬，不道，下廷尉狱。
博士弟子济南王咸举幡太学下，曰： 欲救鲍司隶者会此下。
诸生会者千余人。
朝日，遮丞相孔光自言，丞相车不得行，又守阙上书。
上遂抵宣罪减死一等，髡钳。
translation: 
Gaomen is only a few dozen steps away from the provincial residence. It is just a matter of going in and out, but it has not been done for two years. Under such circumstances, it is impossible to reach remote places in the world by yourself!
I hope that your majesty will grant me a moment to state my humble opinion, and then, even if I am buried in hell, I will die with no regrets.
The emperor was greatly surprised by what Bao Xuan said, so he adopted his advice and appointed He Wu and Peng Xuan. They were reinstated as three Dukes in ten and a half months.
Bao Xuan was appointed Sili.
At this time, Emperor Ai changed the title of Sili Xiaowei to Sili, and his official rank was equivalent to Sizhi.
Prime Minister Kong Guang was responsible for inspecting the gardens and mausoleums at all times. One of his subordinates violated the regulations by relying on the emperor's order and was walking on the road in a car. Bao Xuan happened to meet him when he was out. Bao Xuan asked his subordinates to detain Prime Minister Shi Shi and confiscate his carriage and horse, humiliating the prime minister.
The matter was handed over to the censor Zhongcheng Nabao. The censor went to the Sili government office and wanted to arrest Bao Xuan's accompanying officials, but Bao Xuan closed the door and refused to let him in.
As a result, Bao Xuan committed crimes such as refusing to accept the envoy, being disrespectful, disrespectful, and unethical, and was arrested and sent to Tingwei Prison.
Wang Xian, a disciple of the doctorate from Jinan, held a flag to the gate of Taixue and said: "Those who want to save Bao Sili please gather under this flag."
More than a thousand people gathered from the Imperial College.
On the day of going to court, they stopped the prime minister to explain the situation himself. The prime minister's carriage and horses could not move forward, and they waited in front of the palace gate to write to the emperor.
The emperor then reduced Bao Xuan's death sentence by one level, shaved off his hair, and tied his neck with an iron ring.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
宣既被刑，乃徙之上党，以为其地宜田牧，又少豪俊，易长雄，遂家于长子。
平帝即位，王莽秉政，阴有篡国之心，乃风州郡以罪法案诛诸豪桀，及汉忠直臣不附己者，宣及何武等皆死。
时，名捕陇西辛兴，兴与宣女婿许绀俱过宣，一饭去，宣不知情，坐系狱，自杀。
自成帝至王莽时，清名之士，琅邪又有纪逡王思，齐则薛方子容，太原则郇越臣仲、郇相稚宾，沛郡则唐林子高、唐尊伯高，皆以明经饬行显名于世。
纪逡、两唐皆仕王莽，封侯贵重，历公卿位。
唐林数上疏谏正，有忠直节。
唐尊衣敝履空，以瓦器饮食，又以历遗公卿，被虚伪名。
郇越、相，同族昆弟也，并举州郡孝廉、茂材，数病，去官。
越散其先人訾千余万，以分施九族州里，志节尤高。
translation: 
After Bao Xuan was sentenced, his family moved to Shangdang. He believed that the Shangdang area was suitable for farming and grazing, and there were few talented people who could easily lead the way, so he settled in Changzi County, Shangdang.
After Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Wang Mang was in power and secretly wanted to usurp the throne. So he hinted at Luo Zhi in various states and counties to frame and kill heroes. As for ministers who were loyal and upright to the Han Dynasty and did not want to cling to him, Bao Xuan, He Wu and others were executed.
At that time, Xin Xing from Longxi was wanted. Xin Xing and Bao Xuan's son-in-law Xu Cang went to Bao Xuan's house together, had a meal and left. Bao Xuan did not know the truth, was implicated, was arrested and imprisoned, and committed suicide.
From the time when he became emperor to Wang Mang, there were people who were honest and upright, such as the Langxie people who rebelled against Wang Mo.
Ji Kui and the Tang Dynasty both served as officials during the reign of Wang Mang, and were awarded the title of marquis. They were honored and distinguished, and ranked as public ministers.
Lu Zheng had written many letters to admonish Jing, and he had a loyal and upright character.
Lu Dian wore shabby clothes, wore perforated shoes, and ate and drank from rough earthenware vessels. He also gave these rough earthenware vessels to ministers, earning him a reputation as a hypocrite.
Xi Yue and Xi Xiang were brothers of the same clan. They were both promoted as filial, honest and maocai by the prefectures and counties. They resigned several times due to illness.
Xun Yue distributed more than tens of millions of property accumulated by his ancestors to the villagers of the nine ethnic groups in the prefecture, and his loyalty was particularly noble.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
相王莽时征为太子四友，病死，莽太子遣使裞以衣衾，其子攀棺不听，曰： 死父遗言，师友之送勿有所受，今于皇太子得托友官，故不受也。 京师称之。
薛方尝为郡掾祭酒，尝征不至，及莽以安车迎方，方因使者辞谢曰： 尧、舜在上，下有巢由，今明主方隆唐、虞之德，小臣欲守箕山之节也。
使者以闻，莽说其言，不强致。
方居家以经教授，喜属文，著诗赋数十篇。
始隃麋郭钦，哀帝时为丞相司直，奏免豫州牧鲍宣、京兆尹薛修等，又奏董贤，左迁卢奴令，平帝时迁南郡太守。
而杜陵蒋诩元卿为兖州刺史，亦以廉直为名。
王莽居摄，钦、诩皆以病免官，归乡里，卧不出户，卒于家。
齐栗融客卿、北海禽庆子夏、苏章游卿、山阳曹竟子期皆儒生，去官不仕于莽。
莽死，汉更始征竟以为丞相，封侯，欲视致贤人，销寇贼。
竟不受侯爵。
会赤眉人长安，欲降竟，竟手剑格死。
世祖即位，征薛方，道病卒。
两龚、鲍宣子孙皆见褒表，至大官。
translation: 
Prime Minister Xun was recruited as one of the four friends of the prince when Wang Mang was in power. After he died of illness, Prince Wang Mang sent an envoy to present mourning clothes and quilts. Prime Minister Xun's son held the coffin and refused to accept the gifts. He said: My deceased father left a message and did not accept gifts from his mentors and friends. Now, my father can be regarded as a friendly official to the crown prince, so he cannot accept gifts from the prince.
People in the capital praised his behavior. Xue Fang once served as a county clerk to offer wine sacrifices. The imperial court summoned him, but he did not answer the call. When Wang Mang was in power, he greeted him with a carriage.
The messenger told Wang Mang what he said. Wang Mang was very happy and stopped forcing him.
Xue Fang taught Confucian classics at home, liked to write articles, and wrote dozens of poems.
Guo Qin, a native of Mi, was originally named Prime Minister Sizhi during the reign of Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty. He once wrote a letter asking for the removal of Yuzhou Mu Bao Xuan, Jing Zhao Yin Xue Xiu and others. He also wrote a letter to impeach Dong Xian. He was demoted to the magistrate of Lunu County, and was promoted to the prefect of Nanjun during the reign of Emperor Ping.
And Jiang Fanqing, a native of Duling, served as the governor of Yanzhou and was also known for his integrity and uprightness.
When Wang Mang was regent, Guo Qin and Jiang Yi both claimed illness and were exempted from official duties. They returned to their hometowns. They were bedridden because of illness and could not leave the house, and died at home.
Li Rongkeqing of Qi State, Qinqing Zixia of Beihai, Su Zhangyouqing, and Cao Jingziqi of Shanyang were all Confucian scholars. After Wang Mang usurped the throne, they all abandoned their official positions.
After Wang Mang's death, Liu Xuan, Emperor Gengshi of the Han Dynasty, summoned Cao Jing as prime minister and granted him the title of Marquis, hoping to show the world his sincerity in recruiting wise men and eliminating bandits.
Cao Jing refused to accept the title.
It happened that the Red Eyebrow Army invaded Chang'an and wanted Cao Jing to surrender. Cao Jing fought with his sword and died.
After Shizu ascended the throne, he summoned Xue Fang. Xue Fang died of illness on his way to Beijing.
The descendants of Gong Sheng, Gong She and Bao Xuan were all commended and promoted to high officials.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
赞曰：《易》称 君子之道也，或出或处，或默或语 ，言其各得道之一节，譬诸草木，区以别矣。
故曰山林之士往而不能反，朝廷之士入而不能出，二者各有所短。
春秋列国卿大夫及至汉兴将相名臣，怀禄耽宠以失其世者多矣！
是故清节之士于是为贵。
然大率多能自治而不能治人。
王、贡之材，优于龚、鲍。
守死善道，胜实蹈焉。
贞而不谅，薛方近之。
郭钦、蒋诩好遁不污，绝纪、唐矣！
translation: 
Zan said: "The Book of Changes" says that the way of a gentleman is to be an official or to live in seclusion, or to be silent or to make suggestions. It means that each of them obtains an aspect of the way, just like the orchids and osmanthus plants. Although they are of different types, they all show their fragrance.
Therefore, it is said that people in the opposition can no longer hide in hiding after becoming an official, and people in the government can no longer hide in hiding after becoming an official. Both have their own shortcomings.
From the senior officials of various states in the Spring and Autumn Period to the generals, ministers and ministers since the rise of Han Dynasty, how many people have missed their official positions, indulged in favors and favors, and have lost the moral integrity of the world!
Therefore, those with high moral character are extremely rare.
However, most people can only govern themselves but cannot govern others.
Talents like Wang Ji and Gong Yu are far superior to Gong Sheng, Gong She and Bao Xuan.
By adhering to the good path until death, Gong Sheng truly practiced the way of a saint.
Consistent and intelligent, Xue Fang's words and deeds are close to those of a saint.
Guo Qin and Jiang Yi avoided chaos and did not taint their integrity. They were completely different from Ji Kui, Tang Lin, Tang Zun and others.


