Chunk 0: 
original: 
陆倕，字佐公，吴郡吴人也。
晋太尉玩六世孙。
祖子真，宋东阳太守。
父慧晓，齐太常卿。
倕少勤学，善属文。
于宅内起两间茅屋，杜绝往来，昼夜读书，如此者数载。
所读一遍，必诵于口。
尝借人《汉书》，失《五行志》四卷，乃暗写还之，略无遗脱。
幼为外祖张岱所异，岱常谓诸子曰： 此儿汝家之阳元也。
年十七，举本州秀才。
刺史竟陵王子良开西邸延英俊，倕亦预焉。
辟议曹从事参军、庐陵王法曹行参军。
天监初，为右军安成王外兵参军，转主簿。
倕与乐安任昉友善，为《感知己赋》以赠昉，昉因此名以报之曰： 信伟人之世笃，本侯服于陆乡。
缅风流与道素，袭衮衣与绣裳。
还伊人而世载，并三骏而龙光。
过龙津而一息，望凤条而曾翔。
彼白玉之虽洁，此幽兰之信芳。
思在物而取譬，非斗斛之能量。
匹耸峙于东岳，比凝厉于秋霜。
不一饭以妄过，每三钱以投渭。
匪蒙袂之敢嗟，岂沟壑之能衣。
既蕴藉其有余，又淡然而无味。
得意同乎卷怀，违方似乎仗气。
类平叔而靡雕，似子云之不朴。
冠众善而贻操，综群言而名学。
折高、戴于后台，异邹、颜乎董幄。
采三《诗》于河间，访九师于淮曲。
术兼口传之书，艺广铿锵之乐。
时坐睡而梁悬，裁枝梧而锥握。
既文过而意深，又理胜而辞缛。
咨余生之荏苒，迫岁暮而伤情。
测徂阴于堂下，听鸣钟于洛城。
唯忘年之陆子，定一遇于班荆。
translation: 
Lu Chui, named Zuogong, was from Wu County, Wu County.
He is the sixth generation grandson of Lu Wan, the Taiwei of the Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather, Zizhen, was the governor of Dongyang in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Huixiao, was Taichang Qing of the Qi Dynasty.
When Lu Chui was young, he studied diligently and was good at writing articles.
He built a two-story thatched house in his residence, cut off contact with others, and studied day and night. This lasted for several years.
Once you read it once, you will definitely be able to recite it orally.
I once borrowed someone else's "Han Shu" and lost four volumes of "Five Elements Chronicles", so I wrote them down silently and returned them to others without any omissions.
When he was young, his grandfather Qiang Dai looked at him with special eyes. Zhang Dai often said to his sons: "Sending children is the Yang Yuan of your family."
At the age of seventeen, he was elected as a scholar of the state.
Prince Liang, the governor of Jingling, set up a residence in the west and introduced talented people, including Lu Ren.
Recruitment was for Yi Cao to join the army, and for Luling King Fa Cao to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as a foreign soldier of King Ancheng of the Right Army and joined the army, and was changed to the chief secretary.
Lu Chui was friendly with Ren Fang, a man from Le'an, and wrote "Perception of Ji Fu" as a gift to Ren Fang. Ren Fang used this title to repay Lu Chui and said: "It is indeed a generation of great men who are born in Lu Township in the Houfu area."
To commemorate meritorious deeds and morality, inherit the top and bottom garments embroidered with dragons.
It was passed down from generation to generation when it came to the Japanese people, and the three horses galloped together to gain grace and glory.
Stop after passing the dragon gate, and fly while looking at the parasol branches.
Although the white jade is pure, the orchids are indeed fragrant.
Thinking about using objects as metaphors is not something Dou Hu can do.
Marriage standing in Shuyue is comparable to being condensed in autumn frost.
He would pass by casually without skipping a meal, and would often throw three pennies into the Wei River.
If you don't dare to sigh with your sleeves covered, how can you wear clothes in a ravine?
Savings and collections are redundant, but also indifferent and tasteless.
Obtaining the will is like having it in the heart, and violating the principles of justice is like trying to uphold justice.
It's like Uncle He Ping's lack of ornamentation, and it's like Yang Ziyun's lack of frugality.
All kinds of good deeds are gathered together to leave integrity, and all kinds of speech are combined to form scholarship.
He impressed the Gao family and the Dai family backstage, and refuted the Zou family and the Yan family in the Dong family's tent.
Collected the Book of Songs from three schools in the river, and visited scholars at the twists and turns of the Huai River.
Academics include books passed down orally, and skills include sonorous music.
Sometimes he would sit down and fall asleep with his hair tied to the roof beams, or he would just be chatting while holding an iron awl in his hand.
The article is beyond others and has profound meaning, the truth is profound and the diction is dense.
Lamenting the passage of my life, I feel sad as I approach the end of the year.
Measure the light under a house and listen to the bells ring in Los Angeles.
Only Lu Zi, regardless of his age, made friends after meeting each other in a paved place.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
余获田苏之价，尔得海上之名。
信落魄而无产，终长对于短生。
饥虚表于徐步，逃责显于疾行。
子比我于叔则，又方余于耀卿。
心照情交，流言靡惑。
万类暗求，千里悬得。
言象可废，蹄筌自默。
居非连栋，行则同车。
冬日不足，夏日靡余。
肴核非饵，丝竹岂娱。
我未舍驾，子已回舆。
中饭相顾，怅然动色。
邦壤既殊，离会莫测。
存异山阳之居，没非要离之侧。
似胶投漆中，离娄岂能识。
其为士友所重如此。
迁骠骑临川王东曹掾。
是时礼乐制度，多所创革，高祖雅爱倕才，乃敕撰《新漏刻铭》，其文甚美。
迁太子中舍人，管东宫书记。
又诏为《石阙铭记》。奏之。
敕曰： 太子中舍人陆倕所制《石阙铭》，辞义典雅，足为佳作。
昔虞丘辨物，邯郸献赋，赏以金帛，前史美谈，可赐绢三十匹。
迁太子庶子、国子博士，母忧去职。
服阕，为中书侍郎，给事黄门侍郎，扬州别驾从事史，以疾陈解。迁鸿胪卿，入为吏部郎，参选事。
出为云麾晋安王长史、寻阳太守、行江州府州事。
以公事免，左迁中书侍郎、司徒司马、太子中庶子、廷尉卿。
又为中庶子，加给事中、扬州大中正。
复除国子博士、中庶子、中正并如故。
守太常卿，中正如故。
普通七年，卒，年五十七。
文集二十卷，行于世。
第四子缵，早慧，十岁通经，为童子奉车郎，卒。
到洽，字茂氵公，彭城武原人也。
宋骠骑将军彦之曾孙。
translation: 
I gain the value of Tian Su, and you gain the reputation of the world.
It is true that people who are poor, frustrated and without property will eventually face a short life for a long time.
Hunger and weakness are shown by pacing slowly, and avoiding responsibilities is shown by walking quickly.
You compare me to Pei Shuze, and you compare me to Yuan Yaoqing.
Friendship is based on sincerity and sincerity, and rumors cannot confuse people.
Search secretly in all things, and obtain it from a thousand miles away.
Speech images can be discarded, and auxiliary tools can be naturally collected.
The houses are not connected to each other for living, and the same car is used for traveling.
There is not enough time in winter and no extra time in summer.
Meats and fruits are not firewood cakes, and music cannot entertain.
Before I even got out of the car, your vehicle had already turned around.
They looked at each other while eating, feeling melancholy and confused, and their faces changed.
The country has become strange, and separation and reunion cannot be predicted.
His residence is different from that of Shanyan when he is alive, and he is not next to his important plate after death.
It's like putting glue into paint, how can Li Lou tell the difference?
This is how Lu Zheng was highly respected by his scholar friends.
He was transferred to the hussar Linchuan King Dong Cao.
At that time, there were many innovations and reforms in the ritual and music system. Emperor Gaozu liked Lu Jia's talent very much, so he ordered the writing of "Xin Lu Ke Inscription", which was very beautiful in diction.
He was transferred to Prince Zhongsheren to be in charge of the palace documents and records.
Shao also ordered Lu Bian to write "Shi Que Ming Ji", and Lu Bian presented it.
Emperor Gaozu ordered: "The Stone Que Inscription" written by Prince Zhongshe Renduubao is elegant and beautiful in its diction and meaning, and can be regarded as a masterpiece.
In the past, Yuqiu was able to distinguish things, and Han Shudan presented poems and poems, and was awarded gold and silk, which became a beautiful story in the history books. Lu Chui can be given thirty pieces of silk.
He was transferred to the position of Prince Concubine and Doctor of the State, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he served as the minister of Zhongshu, the minister of Huangmen, and the history of Yangzhou Biejia. Due to illness, he requested to be relieved of his post and was transferred to Hongluqing. He entered the Shangshu Province as the official of the Ministry of Affairs and participated in the selection affairs.
When he went out, he served as the chief historian of Jin'an in Yunhui, the prefect of Xunyan, and the state affairs of Liaoye Prefecture.
He was dismissed from his post due to official duties and demoted to the rank of Vice Minister of Zhongshu, Situ Sima, Prince's concubine, and Tingweiqing.
He also served as the concubine of the middle school, and was awarded Shizhong, the great Zhongzheng of Yangzhou.
He was also awarded the title of Doctor of Guozi, and his positions as concubine and zhongzheng remained as before.
He was appointed Taichang Qing, and Zhongzheng remained the same.
Xuan passed away for seven years at the age of fifty-seven.
There are twenty volumes of collected works, which are popular in the world.
The fourth son, Lu Zan, was smart in his early years, proficient in scriptures at the age of ten, and served as a charioteer for boys. He died.
To Qia Zi Mao Yi, he was from Wuyuan, Pengcheng.
He is the great-grandson of Yanzhi, the hussar general of the Song Dynasty.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
祖仲度，骠骑江夏王从事中郎。
父坦，齐中书郎。
洽年十八，为南徐州迎西曹行事。
洽少知名，清警有才学士行。
谢朓文章盛于一时，见洽深相赏好，日引与谈论。
每谓洽曰： 君非直名人，乃亦兼资文武。
朓后为吏部，洽去职，朓欲荐之，洽睹世方乱，深相拒绝。
除晋安王国左常侍，不就。遂筑室岩阿，幽居者积岁。
乐安任昉有知人之鉴，与洽兄沼、溉并善。
尝访洽于田舍，见之叹曰： 此子日下无双。
遂申拜亲之礼。
天监初，沼、溉俱蒙擢用，洽尤见知赏，从弟沆亦相与齐名。
高祖问待诏丘迟曰： 到洽何如沆、溉？
迟对曰： 正清过于沆，文章不减溉；加以清言，殆将难及。
即召为太子舍人。
御华光殿，诏洽及沆、萧琛、任昉侍宴，赋二十韵诗，以洽辞为工，赐绢二十匹。
高祖谓昉曰： 诸到可谓才子。
昉对曰： 臣常窃议，宋得其武，梁得其文。
二年，迁司徒主簿，直待诏省，敕使抄甲部书。
五年，迁尚书殿中郎。
洽兄弟群从，递居此职，时人荣之。
七年，迁太子中舍人，与庶子陆倕对掌东宫管记。
俄为侍读，侍读省仍置学士二人，洽复充其选。
九年，迁国子博士，奉敕撰《太学碑》。
十二年，出为临川内史，在郡称职。
十四年，入为太子家令，迁给事黄门侍郎，兼国子博士。
十六年，行太子中庶子。
普通元年，以本官领博士。
顷之，入为尚书吏部郎，请托一无所行。
俄迁员外散骑常侍，复领博士，母忧去职。
五年，复为太子中庶子，领步兵校尉，未拜，仍迁给事黄门侍郎，领尚书左丞。准绳不避贵戚，尚书省贿赂莫敢通。
时銮舆欲亲戎，军国容礼，多自洽出。
六年，迁御史中丞，弹纠无所顾望，号为劲直，当时肃清。
以公事左降，犹居职。
旧制，中丞不得入尚书下舍，洽兄溉为左民尚书，洽引服亲不应有碍，刺省详决。
左丞萧子云议许入溉省，亦以其兄弟素笃，不能相别也。
七年，出为贞威将军、云麾长史、寻阳太守。
大通元年，卒于郡，时年五十一。
赠侍中。
谥曰理子。
translation: 
My grandfather, Zhongdu, was a hussar and a lieutenant of the King of Jiangxia.
When his father arrived in Tan, he was the official official of the Qi Dynasty.
When Qia was eighteen years old, he was in charge of welcoming west Cao in South Xuzhou.
When he was young, he was well-known, high-minded, alert, talented and moral.
Xie Tiao's articles were very famous at that time. When he met Dao Qia, he was very friendly and appreciative of them, and invited him to discuss them with him every day.
I often say to Dao Qia: You are not only a celebrity, but also have both civil and military talents.
Xie Tiao later served as the official of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and resigned when he arrived at Qia. Xie Peng wanted to recommend him, but he refused after observing that the world would be in chaos.
He was appointed as the Zuo Changshi of the Kingdom of Jin'an, but he refused to take up the post, so he built a house on the side of a mountain rock and lived in seclusion for several years.
Ren Fang, a Le'an native, has the ability to understand others, and is friendly with his brother Daoqi, both in the marsh and the irrigated area.
I once visited Qia in a farm house. After seeing him, I admired him and said: This man is unparalleled in the world.
So I used the etiquette of meeting a friend's parents.
In the early years of Tianjian, both Dao Zhou and Dao Gai were promoted, and Dao Qia was especially appreciated by Zhiyu. His cousin Dao Hang also had the same reputation as him.
Emperor Gaozu asked Qiu Chi, who was waiting for the imperial edict, and said: How does Daoqia compare with Daohang and Daoji?
Qiu Chi replied: He is more upright and honest than Dao Hang, and his articles are not inferior to Dao Gai's; plus he can talk clearly, it is difficult for the two of them to compare with Dao Qia.
He was immediately recruited to Qia to serve as the prince's sacrificer.
When Emperor Gaozu went to the Huaguang Hall, Shao Ling went to Xia, and Dao Hang, Xiao Chen, and Ren Fang served him at a banquet. He composed twenty poems in rhyme, and the diction of Dao Qia was the most skillful. He also gave him twenty pieces of silk.
Emperor Gaozu said to Ren Fang: The Dao brothers can be called talented men.
Ren Fang replied: "My ministers often discuss privately that Song Dynasty will get military generals and Liang Liang will get literati."
In the second year, he was transferred to Chief Situ and was on duty in Shao Province. Shao ordered him to copy the scriptures.
In the fifth year, he was transferred to the position of Zhonglang in Shangshu Palace.
The uncles and brothers who came together occupied this position one after another, and people at that time thought they were very honored.
In the seventh year, he was transferred to the crown prince Zhongsheren, and he and his concubine Lu Chui were in charge of the records of the East Palace respectively.
Soon he served as an attendant, and the province soon appointed two bachelors, who came to serve as candidates.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to Dr. Guozi and was ordered to write the "Taixue Monument".
In the twelfth year, he went out to serve as the internal history of Linchuan and became a competent official in the county.
In the fourteenth year, he came to Beijing and served as the prince's family minister. He was transferred to serve as the minister of Huangmen and as a doctor of Guozi.
In the 16th year, he was transferred to the crown prince's concubine.
In the first year of ordinary life, he served as a doctor concurrently with his official position.
Not long after, when he joined the Ministry of Finance and served as a minister, he found it impossible to entrust him with anything.
Soon he was transferred to Yuanwai Sanqi Changshi, and also served as a doctor. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
In the fifth year, he served as the concubine of the crown prince and concurrently as the captain of the infantry school. Before taking office, he was subsequently transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and concurrently as Zuocheng of the Minister. He never avoided noble relatives in his corrections, and bribery to the Minister of Ministers was not feasible.
At that time, the emperor wanted to go on an expedition in person, and the etiquette of the army and the country was mostly formulated through consultation.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the position of censor Zhongcheng. He had no scruples in impeachment and picketing, and was known as strong and upright. He was punished at that time.
Demoted due to official duties, but still in his position.
According to the old system, Zhongcheng could not enter the Shangshu's residence. Daoqia's elder brother Guiji served as Zuomin Shangshu. Daoqia cited the clause that relatives should not interfere and sent it to the Shangshu Province for a detailed decision.
Zuo Cheng Xiao Ziyun suggested that he should be allowed to enter Gai's official office because their brothers had always been loyal and did not distinguish between them.
In the seventh year, he went out to serve as General Zhenwei, Yunhui Chief Shi, and Xunyang Prefect.
In the first year of Datong, he died in the county at the age of fifty-one.
A posthumous gift to the attendant.
Mi's nickname is Li Zi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昭明太子与晋安王纲令曰： 明北兗、到长史遂相系凋落，伤怛悲惋，不能已已。
去岁陆太常殂殁，今兹二贤长谢。
陆生资忠履贞，冰清玉洁，文该四始，学遍九流，高情胜气，贞然直上。
明公儒学稽古，淳厚笃诚，立身行道，始终如一，傥值夫子，必升孔堂。
到子风神开爽，文义可观，当官莅事，介然无私。
皆海内之俊乂，东序之秘宝。
此之嗟惜，更复何论。
但游处周旋，并淹岁序，造膝忠规，岂可胜说，幸免祇悔，实二三子之力也。
谈对如昨，音言在耳，零落相仍，皆成异物，每一念至，何时可言。
天下之宝，理当恻怆。
近张新安又致故，其人文笔弘雅，亦足嗟惜，随弟府朝，东西日久，尤当伤怀也。
比人物零落，特可伤惋，属有今信，乃复及之。
洽文集行于世。
子伯淮、仲举。
明山宾，字孝若，平原鬲人也。
父僧绍，隐居不仕，宋末国子博士征，不就。
山宾七岁能言名理，十三博通经传，居丧尽礼。
服阕，州辟从事史。
起家奉朝请。
兄仲璋婴痼疾，家道屡空，山宾乃行干禄。
齐始安王萧遥光引为抚军行参军，后为广阳令，顷之去官。
义师至，高祖引为相府田曹参军。
梁台建，为尚书驾部郎，迁治书侍御史，右军记室参军，掌治吉礼。
时初置《五经》博士，山宾首膺其选。
迁北中郎谘议参军，侍皇太子读。
累迁中书侍郎、国子博士、太子率更令、中庶子，博士如故。
translation: 
Prince Zhaoming gave an order to Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an: Yan and Changshi in the northern Ming Dynasty passed away one after another. The sorrow and regret cannot be calmed down.
Lu Taichang died last year, and now the two wise men have passed away.
Lu Sheng upholds loyalty and acts steadfastly, is as clear as ice and as clean as jade, possesses literary talent with the four parts of the Book of Songs, has knowledge spanning nine schools, has noble sentiments and superior temperament, and sticks to the right path to reach the sky.
Ming Gong was well versed in Confucianism and investigated ancient affairs. He was honest, sincere, honest, and committed to morality. If he met the Master, he would definitely be promoted to the Hall of Confucius.
He has an open and cheerful demeanor, and his writing style can be used as a role model. He is a director because of his position, and he is honest and has no selfish motives.
They are all outstanding talents in the country, and they are the treasures of Chinese traditional culture.
Such sighs and regrets, what else is there to talk about.
It's just that they have spent time in exchanges and exchanges, and they have loyally advised each other. How can I explain it in detail? Fortunately, it is the strength of these people to avoid regrets.
The conversation is like yesterday, the voice and words are still in my ears. They have passed away one after another, and they have all become people in the underworld. Whenever I miss this, when can I talk about it.
The true weapon of the world should be sad.
Zhang Xin'an died recently. He sent someone to write boldly and elegantly, which is enough to sigh and regret. Following his brother's officialdom, he was separated in the east and west for a long time, which should be especially sad.
The recent decline of characters is particularly sad and regrettable. When I met the current messenger, I talked about it again.
Daoqia's anthology is popular in the world.
His sons' names were Bohuai and Zhongju.
Mingshan Bin's courtesy name is Xiaoruo, and he belongs to Pingyuan Ge Renren.
His father, Seng Shao, lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official. At the end of the Song Dynasty, he was recruited as a doctor of the Imperial Academy and did not take up the post.
When Shan Bin was seven years old, he could talk about the rights and wrongs of things. When he was thirteen years old, he was knowledgeable about scriptures and annotations, and observed all the etiquette in mourning.
After the mourning period expires, the state will requisition him to engage in history.
Serving as an official is a request from the court.
His elder brother Zhongzhang suffered from an incurable disease and the family was empty, so Shan Bin asked for an official position.
Xiao Yaoguang, the first king of the Qi Dynasty, was summoned to join the Fu army and later served as the Guangyang order and soon resigned.
When the rebel army arrived, Emperor Gaozu hired Tian Cao to join the army as Prime Minister.
When the Liang Dynasty Tai Pavilion was established, Shan Bin served as Shangshu Jiabulang, and was transferred to the imperial censor. He joined the army in the Youjun Ji office and was in charge of revising the auspicious rituals.
At that time, doctors of the Five Classics began to be established, and Shanbin was the first to accept this position.
He was transferred to Beizhonglang to consult and join the army, and studied with the crown prince.
He was promoted many times to serve as Minister of the Secretariat, Doctor of the Imperial Academy, Crown Prince, Imperial Concubine, and Doctorate. His titles remained the same.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
天监十五年，出为持节、督缘淮诸军事、征远将军、北兗州刺史。
普通二年，征为太子右卫率，加给事中，迁御史中丞。
以公事左迁黄门侍郎、司农卿。
四年，迁散骑常侍，领青、冀二州大中正。
东宫新置学士，又以山宾居之，俄以本官兼国子祭酒。
初，山宾在州，所部平陆县不稔，启出仓米以赡人。后刺史检州曹，失簿书，以山宾为耗阙，有司追责，籍其宅入官，山宾默不自理，更市地造宅。
昭明太子闻筑室不就，有令曰： 明祭酒虽出抚大籓，拥旄推毂，珥金拖紫，而恒事屡空。
闻构宇未成，今送薄助。
并贻诗曰： 平仲古称奇，夷吾昔檀美。
令则挺伊贤，东秦固多士。
筑室非道傍，置宅归仁里。
庚桑方有系，原生今易拟。
必来三径人，将招《五经》士。
山宾性笃实，家中尝乏用，货所乘牛。
既售受钱，乃谓买主曰： 此牛经患漏蹄，治差已久，恐后脱发，无容不相语。
买主遽追取钱。
处士阮孝绪闻之，叹曰： 此言足使还淳反朴，激薄停浇矣。
五年，又为国子博士，常侍、中正如故。
其年以本官假节，权摄北兗州事。
大通元年，卒，时年八十五。
诏赠侍中、信威将军。
谥曰质子。
昭明太子为举哀，赙钱十万，布百匹，并使舍人王颙监护丧事。
又与前司徒左长史殷芸令曰： 北兗信至，明常侍遂至殒逝，闻之伤怛。
此贤儒术该通，志用稽古，温厚淳和，伦雅弘笃。
授经以来，迄今二纪。
translation: 
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, he went out to serve as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Huaihe River, general of expedition, and governor of Northern Yanzhou.
In the second year of the ordinary year, he was recruited to serve as the crown prince's right guard, and was granted the title of Shizhong, and was transferred to the post of censor Zhongcheng.
Due to official duties, he was demoted to Huangmen Shilang and Sinongqing.
In the fourth year, he was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi, and concurrently served as the chief minister of Qingzhou and Jizhou.
A new bachelor was established in Shu Palace, and Shan Bin was appointed to take charge of it. Soon, he also served as the emperor's wine minister with his own position.
At first, Shanbin was in the prefecture, and the Pinglu County under his jurisdiction had a bad harvest. Yebin started to release grain from the warehouse to help the people. Later, the governor inspected the official office of the prefecture and lost the account books. He thought it was due to Shanbin's losses and omissions. The relevant departments investigated the responsibility and confiscated Shanbin's house and transferred it to the government. Shanbin remained silent and did not appeal for himself, and bought another land to build a house.
Prince Zhaoming heard that Shanbin could not complete the house, so he ordered: Although Ming Jijiu went out to control Dazhou, he held great power to help people achieve things, inserted gold ornaments and pulled purple ribbons, but his hands were always empty.
I heard that the construction of the house has not been completed, so I am offering a meager subsidy.
He also sent a poem saying: Ping Zhong has been called Qiqi since ancient times, and Yi Wu used to be good at good names.
Beautiful laws establish wise people, and the Eastern Qin Dynasty originally had many scholars.
The houses are not built next to the road, but the houses are placed in Quy Nhon.
Geng Sang has a successor, and it is easy to compare with him today.
Those who will come to live in seclusion in the countryside will attract scholars from the Five Classics.
Shanbin has a loyal and honest character. His family once lacked funds and sold the cow he rode.
After withdrawing the money after the sale, he said to the buyer: The cow had suffered from leaky hoof, and it has been cured for a long time after treatment. I am afraid that if it relapses in the future, I will have to tell him.
The buyer immediately recovered the money Shanbin had withdrawn.
After the hermit Ruan Xiaoxu heard about it, he sighed and said: This passage is enough to make people return to simplicity and curb the superficial trend.
Five years later, he served as Doctor of the Imperial College again, and continued to serve as a regular minister and Zhongzheng.
In the year of 1999, he was appointed as a leaver in his own capacity and temporarily acted as an agent for the affairs of Northern Yanzhou.
He died in the first year of La Datong at the age of eighty-five.
Shao Ling gave posthumously to Shi Zhong and General Xinwei.
The name is proton.
Prince Zhaoming held a funeral for him, donated 100,000 yuan in money and 100 bolts of cloth, and sent Wang Yi, the funeral director, to supervise the arrangements for the funeral.
He also gave an order to Yin Yun, the former Situ Zuochang, saying: The envoy from Northern Yanzhou arrived and Lang Jubi passed away suddenly. I felt sad when I heard about it.
This wise man was well versed in Confucianism and determined to investigate ancient affairs. He was meek, loyal, honest, peaceful, elegant and broad.
It has been more than twenty years since he taught the scriptures.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
若其上交不谄，造膝忠规，非显外迹，得之胸怀者，盖亦积矣。
摄官连率，行当言归，不谓长往，眇成畴日。
追忆谈绪，皆为悲端，往矣如何！
昔经联事，理当酸怆也。
山宾累居学官，甚有训导之益，然性颇疏通，接于诸生，多所狎比，人皆爱之。
所著《吉礼仪注》二百二十四卷，《礼仪》二十卷，《孝经丧礼服义》十五卷。
子震，字兴道，亦传父业。
历官太学博士，太子舍人，尚书祠部郎，余姚令。
殷钧，字季和，陈郡长平人也。
晋太常融八世孙。
父睿，有才辩，知名齐世，历官司徒从事中郎。
睿妻王奂女。
奂为雍州刺史、镇北将军，乃言于朝，以睿为镇北长史、河南太守。
奂诛，睿并见害。
钧时年九岁，以孝闻。
及长，恬静简交游，好学有思理。
善隶书，为当时楷法，南乡范云、乐安任昉，并称赏之。
高祖与睿少旧故，以女妻钧，即永兴公主也。
天监初，拜驸马都尉，起家秘书郎、太子舍人、司徒主簿、秘书丞。
钧在职，启校定秘阁四部书，更为目录。
又受诏料检西省法书古迹，别为品目。
迁骠骑从事中郎，中书郎、太子家令、掌东宫书记。
顷之，迁给事黄门侍郎、中庶子、尚书吏部郎、司徒左长史，侍中。
东宫置学士，复以钧为之。
公事免。
复为中庶子，领国子博士、左骁骑将军，博士如故。
出为明威将军、临川内史。
钧体羸多疾，闭阁卧治，而百姓化其德，劫盗皆奔出境。
尝禽劫帅，不加考掠，但和言诮责。
劫帅稽颡乞改过，钧便命遣之，后遂为善人。
郡旧多山疟，更暑必动，自钧在任，郡境无复疟疾。
translation: 
As for the fact that he does not flatter people in his dealings with those in high positions, he advises loyally and does not show outward signs, it comes from his heart, and he probably has a deep foundation.
He took charge of the post of governor, and his actions were appropriate and his words had the purpose. Unexpectedly, he passed away for a long time, which was far from the past.
Reminiscing about his conversation becomes a thread of sadness, how can it be calmed down?
The relationship between the past and the past should be sour and sad.
Ye Xuan has been an academic official for a long time and is very helpful in teaching. However, he has a thorough personality, welcomes students, and gets close to them. Everyone likes him.
He wrote 224 volumes of "Notes on Ji Li", 20 volumes of "Etiquette", and 15 volumes of "The Classic of Filial Piety and Funeral Dress".
His son Zhen, also named Xingdao, also inherited his father's studies.
He successively served as a doctor of Taixue, Prince Sheren, Shangshu Ancestral Minister, and Yuyao Ling.
Yin Jun, whose courtesy name was Jihe, was from Changping, County Chen.
He is the eighth generation grandson of Jin Qiao Taichang Chenlie.
His father, Yin He, was talented and eloquent. He was famous throughout the world and served successively as Situ and Zhonglang.
Yin Shu married Wang Huan's daughter.
Wang Lei served as the governor of Zhenbei and the general of Zhenbei, so he reported to the court and appointed Zhou Yao as the chief historian of Zhenbei and the governor of Henan.
Wang Huan was killed, and Wu Yao was killed together.
Wu Man was nine years old at the time and was known for his filial piety.
When he grows up, he will be indifferent and leisurely and rarely socialize. He likes to study and is intellectually interested.
He was good at official calligraphy and became a role model at that time. Fan Nuo from Nanxiang and Renmao from Luandong all praised him and knew him.
Emperor Gaozu and Yin Chang were friends when they were young, and they married their daughter to Yin Gou, who became Princess Yongxing.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Commander-in-Chief of the Prince Consort, and served as Secretary Lang, Prince Sheren, Situ Chief Secretary, and Secretary Cheng.
When Yin Gou was in office, he began to compile the four books of Mi Ge and compiled a separate catalogue.
Shao also searched for calligraphy monuments in Western Province and compiled a detailed list of grades.
He was transferred to Qiaoqi to serve as Zhonglang, Zhongshulang, Prince's family order, and in charge of the palace documents and records.
Soon after, he was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, the concubine in the middle, the Minister of Libu, Situ Zuo, Changshi, and the minister.
A bachelor was appointed in the East Palace, and Yin Gou was appointed as the official.
Removal from office on official business.
He also served as the concubine, doctor of the state, and general Zuo Xiaoqi. The title of doctor remained the same.
When he went out, he served as General Mingwei and Internal History of Linchuan.
Yin Gou was weak and sick, so he closed his door and treated him in bed. However, the people were inspired by his virtues, and all the thieves fled the country.
Yin Gou once captured the leader of a robbery, but instead of torturing him, he just scolded him in a pleasant manner.
The robber leader kowtowed and begged to change, and Yin Gou ordered him to be released. Later, the man became a good person.
There was a lot of malaria in the county in the past, and it would definitely break out in summer. Since Yin Jun took office, there is no more malaria in the county.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
母忧去职，居丧过礼，昭明太子忧之，手书诫喻曰： 知比诸德，哀顿为过，又所进殆无一溢，甚以酸耿。
迥然一身，宗奠是寄，毁而灭性，圣教所不许。
宜微自遣割，俯存礼制，穀粥果蔬，少加勉强。
忧怀既深，指故有及，并令缪道臻口具。
钧答曰： 奉赐手令，并缪道臻宣旨，伏读感咽，肝心涂地。
小人无情，动不及礼，但禀生霡劣，假推年岁，罪戾所钟，复加横疾。
顷者绵微，守尽晷漏，目乱玄黄，心迷哀乐，惟救危苦，未能以远理自制。
姜桂之滋，实闻前典，不避粱肉，复忝今慈，臣亦何人，降此忧愍。
谨当循复圣言，思自补续，如脱申延，实由亭造。
服阕，迁五兵尚书，犹以顿瘵经时，不堪拜受，乃更授散骑常侍、领步兵校尉，侍东宫。
寻改领中庶子。
昭明太子薨，官属罢，又领右游击，除国子祭酒，常侍如故。
中大通四年，卒，时年四十九。
谥曰贞子。
二子：构，渥。
陆襄，字师卿，吴郡吴人也。
父闲，齐始安王遥光扬州治中。永元末，遥光据东府作乱，或劝闲去之。
闲曰： 吾为人吏，何所逃死。
台军攻陷城，闲见执，将刑，第二子绛求代死，不获，遂以身蔽刃，刑者俱害之。
襄痛父兄之酷，丧过于礼，服释后犹若居忧。
天监三年，都官尚书范岫表荐襄，起家擢拜著作佐郎，除永宁令。
秩满，累迁司空临川王法曹，外兵，轻车庐陵王记室参军。
translation: 
Because his mother passed away and left his job, the mourning exceeded the etiquette. I was worried about him, so I wrote a handwritten letter to warn and enlighten him: I learned about your recent behavior, being sad and sleepy beyond the etiquette, and eating almost not a liter. It is very sad.
You are alone and are the sustenance of the clan. Excessive sadness that endangers your life is not allowed by Confucianism.
You should give up a little on your own, keep the ritual system, rice porridge, fruits and vegetables, and slightly increase it reluctantly.
I was deeply worried and my intention was involved, so I ordered Lung Daopeng to explain it orally in detail.
Wu Man replied: "After accepting the personally written order and the decree announced by Miao Daozhen, I fell down on the ground and read it with emotion and choked with sobs. I was so sad that my liver, blood and brain fluid flowed to the ground."
Villains have no temperament, and their actions cannot meet the etiquette. They are just born weak. As they age, sins accumulate and diseases increase.
Recently, I have been seriously ill and have been mourning all day long. I feel dizzy and my heart is obsessed with sorrow and joy. I just want to cure the mourning and cannot control myself with high principles.
The moistness of the condiments actually comes from the ancient classics. I do not avoid delicacies and delicacies, but I am ashamed to be taught by today's benevolent people. Who am I to receive such pity and sympathy?
We should follow the sage's words respectfully and think about nourishing ourselves to prolong our life. If we are able to extend our life, it is really due to His Highness's cultivation.
After the mourning period was over, he was transferred to the rank of Minister of the Fifth Army. However, because his illness delayed him for a long time and he was unable to bear the responsibilities, he was appointed as a regular attendant of casual cavalry and an infantry school captain to serve in the East Palace.
Soon he became a concubine.
When the fallen ally king died, his officials were dismissed. Xing invited him to serve as a guerrilla general on the right, and he was appointed as the prince of the country to offer wine and serve as usual.
He died in the fourth year of Tula's reign at the age of forty-nine.
Mi's nickname is King Zhen.
He has two sons: Wudi and Yue.
Lu Xiang, courtesy name Shiqing, was born in Wu County, Wu County.
His father, Lu Xian, served as the governor of Yangzhou in the Qi Dynasty. At the end of the Yongyuan Dynasty, Yaoguang occupied Dongfu and started a rebellion. Some people advised Lu Xian to leave him.
Lu Xian said: I am a subordinate of this family, why should I avoid death?
The imperial army captured the city and Lu Xian was captured and was about to be tortured. His second son, Lu Jiang, asked to die in Lu Xian's place. When he was not allowed, he blocked the blade with his body and killed all the torturers.
Lu Xiang mourned the tragic death of his father and brother. The funeral went beyond etiquette. After the mourning period was over, it was like being in mourning.
In the third year of Tianjian, Fan Xiu, the official minister of the capital, recommended Lu Xiang. Lu Xiang was appointed as Zuo Lang in Jiachao, and was appointed Yongning Order.
After his term of office expired, he was repeatedly promoted to the position of Facao, King of Sikong Linchuan. Foreign soldiers joined the army, and Qingche Luling Wang Jishi joined the army.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昭明太子闻襄业行，启高祖引与游处，除太子洗马，迁中舍人，并掌管记。
出为扬州治中，襄父终此官，固辞职，高祖不许，听与府司马换廨居之。
昭明太子敬耆老，襄母年将八十，与萧琛、傅昭、陆杲每月常遣存问，加赐珍羞衣服。
襄母尝卒患心痛，医方须三升粟浆，是时冬月，日又逼暮，求索无所。忽有老人诣门货浆，量如方剂，始欲酬直，无何失之，时以襄孝感所致也。
累迁国子博士，太子家令，复掌管记，母忧去职。
襄年已五十，毁顿过礼，太子忧之，日遣使诫喻。
服阕，除太子中庶子，复掌管记。
中大通三年，昭明太子薨，官属罢，妃蔡氏别居金华宫，以襄为中散大夫、领步兵校尉、金华宫家令、知金华宫事。
七年，出为鄱阳内史。
先是，郡民鲜于琛服食修道法，尝入山采药，拾得五色幡眊，又于地中得石玺，窃怪之。
琛先与妻别室，望琛所处，常有异气，益以为神。
大同元年，遂结其门徒，杀广晋令王筠，号上愿元年，署置官属。其党转相诳惑，有众万余人。
将出攻郡，襄先已帅民吏修城隍，为备御，及贼至，连战破之，生获琛，余众逃散。
时邻郡豫章、安成等守宰，案治党与，因求贿货，皆不得其实，或有善人尽室离祸，惟襄郡部枉直无滥。
民作歌曰： 鲜于平后善恶分，民无枉死，赖有陆君。
又有彭李二家，先因忿争，遂相诬告，襄引入内室，不加责诮，但和言解喻之，二人感恩，深自咎悔。乃为设酒食，令其尽欢，酒罢，同载而还，因相亲厚。
translation: 
When Prince Zhaoming heard about Lu Xiang's academic conduct, he asked his great ancestor to invite him to travel with him. He appointed the prince to wash horses, transfer him to Zhongshe, and take charge of document records.
When Lu Xiang was out to serve as governor of Yangzhou, Lu Xiang's father died while taking this position. He resolutely refused, but Emperor Gaozu did not allow it and allowed the Sima of the government to exchange official residences.
Prince Zhaoming respected the elderly. Lu Xiang's mother was nearly eighty years old. He, Xiao Chen, Fu Zhao and Lu Dai sent people to visit her every month and gave her good food and clothes.
Lu Sai's mother suddenly suffered from angina pectoris, and the prescription required three liters of corn syrup. It was the winter moon, and it was close to dusk. There was no place to search. Suddenly, an old man came to the door to sell corn syrup, and the quantity was just as prescribed. When he was about to pay, the man disappeared somewhere. At that time, he thought it was because Lu Sai's filial piety moved God.
He was repeatedly promoted to doctor of the state, crown prince's family order, and in charge of document records. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
Lu Xiang was already fifty years old, and he was sad and thin beyond etiquette. The prince was worried about him and sent messengers every day to warn and enlighten him.
When the period of mourning was over, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine, and was also in charge of document records.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, Prince Zhaoming passed away and his officials were dismissed. The concubine Cai lived in Jinhua Palace. Lu Xiang was appointed Zhongsan doctor, infantry captain, family magistrate of Jinhua Palace, and informed of Jinhua Palace affairs.
In the sixth year, he went out to serve as the internal history of Poyang.
Before this, the people in the county used elixirs to cultivate Taoism. They once went into the mountains to collect medicines, picked up flags of five colors, and found stone seals in the ground. They felt strange in private.
Xian Yuchen and his wife didn't live in the same room before, but there were always strange weather in the place where Xian Yuchen lived, which made him feel even more magical.
In the first year of Datong, he gathered his disciples and killed Wang Jun, the magistrate of Guangjin. He claimed that he changed his reign to the first year of Shangyuan, set up officials and subordinates, and his followers deceived and tempted him. He had more than 10,000 followers.
When troops were about to be sent to attack the county town, Lu Xiang first led the people and officials to build the city and take precautions. When the bandits arrived, he defeated them in successive battles and captured Xian Yugan alive, while the rest fled and dispersed.
At that time, the magistrates of the neighboring counties of Yuzhang, Ancheng and other counties interrogated the party members who were detained in Xianyuchen, and took advantage of the opportunity to obtain property, but they could not get the truth. Some good people and their whole families were in trouble, but the upright people in Lu Xiang's county were not harmed innocently.
The people composed a ballad and said: After Xianyu was pacified, good and evil were clearly distinguished, and no one died unjustly, all because of Mr. Lu.
There were also two families, the Peng family and the Li family, who had been angry and fighting before, so they falsely accused each other. Lu Xiang called them into the inner room and did not scold them. He only persuaded and guided them with kind words. The two were grateful for the kindness and deeply regretted their mistakes. Lu Xiang then held a banquet for them and let them drink to their heart's content. After the banquet, the two returned in the same car, and they treated each other favorably.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
民又歌曰： 陆君政，无怨家，斗既罢，仇共车。
在政六年，郡中大治，民李睍等四百二十人诣阙拜表，陈襄德化，求于郡立碑，降敕许之。
又表乞留襄，襄固求还，征为吏部郎，迁秘书监，领扬州大中正。
太清元年，迁度支尚书，中正如故。
二年，侯景举兵围宫城，以襄直侍中省。
三年三月，城陷，襄逃还吴。
贼寻寇东境，没吴郡。
景将宋子仙进攻钱塘，会海盐人陆黯举义，有众数千人，夜出袭郡，杀伪太守苏单于，推襄行郡事。
时淮南太守文成侯萧宁逃贼入吴，襄遣迎宁为盟主，遣黯及兄子映公帅众拒子仙。
子仙闻兵起，乃退还，与黯等战于松江，黯败走，吴下军闻之，亦各奔散。
襄匿于墓下，一夜忧愤卒，时年七十。
襄弱冠遭家祸，终身蔬食布衣，不听音乐，口不言杀害五十许年。
侯景平，世祖追赠侍中、云麾将军。
以建义功，追封余干县侯，邑五百户。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：陆倕博涉文理，到洽匪躬贞劲，明山宾儒雅笃实，殷钧静素恬和，陆襄淳深孝性，虽任遇有异，皆列于名臣矣。
translation: 
The people also sang songs and said: In the fallen star policy, there are no enemies, the fight is over, and the enemies are in the same car.
In the sixth year of his reign, the county was under great control. Li Kui and other 420 people went to the court to report Lu Xiang's benevolence and moral education, and requested that a monument be erected in the county. Emperor Gaozu gave the order to allow it.
He also submitted a memorial requesting to keep Lu Xiang, but Lu Xiang firmly requested to return and be recruited as a official, secretary, superintendent, and concurrently as Yangzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was transferred to Duzhi Shangshu, and his title of Zhongzheng remained as before.
In the second year, Hou Jing raised troops to surround the palace city, and Gaozu appointed Lu Xiang to be on duty in Shizhong Province.
In March of the third year, the city fell and Lu Xiang fled back to Wubi.
Soon the bandits invaded Shubu's territory and captured Wu Commandery.
Hou Jing's general Song Zixian marched to attack Yushan. Yu Zun fell into Youzhang and launched a rebellion. Thousands of his troops attacked the county at night, killed the pseudo-prefect Su Shanyu, and recommended Lu Sai to act as agent for the county affairs.
At that time, Lu Kong, the prefect of Huainan, escaped from the traitors and entered Wu County. Lu Xiang sent people to welcome Lu Zhen as the leader of the alliance, and sent Huan Zhang and his brother's son Dan Ju to lead his troops to resist Wang Xian.
Wang Xian heard about the rise of the rebels, so he retreated and fought with Guibi and others in Zhengwang. Guibi was defeated and fled. After the Chenggong army heard about it, they also fled separately.
Lu Xiang hid under the tomb and died of sorrow and anger one night at the age of seventy.
When Lu Xiang became an adult, he encountered disasters in his family and spent his whole life living in rough clothing. He didn't listen to music, and he didn't talk about killing or anything like that for about fifty years.
After the fort's measurement and quilt were decided, Shi Dan posthumously presented Tuo Sai as a servant and General Yunhui.
Due to the attack by the rebels, he was posthumously granted the title of Diewang Diebao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Yao Cha, the official secretary of Chen Shili Department, said: Lu Zhuibo dabbles in literature and history, Qia bandit is loyal and strong, Mingshan guest is elegant and loyal, Yin Jun is quiet and peaceful, Lu Xiang is simple and filial, although the position and salary are different, they are all listed among the famous ministers.


