Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 3, 6, 14, 3]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
扁鹊者，勃海郡郑人也，姓秦氏，名越人。
少时为人舍长。
舍客长桑君过，扁鹊独奇之，常谨遇之。
长桑君亦知扁鹊非常人也。出入十馀年，乃呼扁鹊私坐，间与语曰： 我有禁方，年老，欲传与公，公毋泄。
扁鹊曰： 敬诺。
乃出其怀中药予扁鹊： 饮是以上池之水三十日，当知物矣。
乃悉取其禁方书尽与扁鹊。
忽然不见，殆非人也。
扁鹊以其言饮药三十日，视见垣一方人。
以此视病，尽见五藏症结，特以诊脉为名耳。
为医或在齐，或在赵。
在赵者名扁鹊。
当晋昭公时，诸大夫彊而公族弱，赵简子为大夫，专国事。
简子疾，五日不知人，大夫皆惧，於是召扁鹊。
扁鹊入视病，出，董安于问扁鹊，扁鹊曰： 血脉治也，而何怪！
昔秦穆公尝如此，七日而寤。
寤之日，告公孙支与子舆曰： 我之帝所甚乐。
吾所以久者，適有所学也。
帝告我： 晋国且大乱，五世不安。
其後将霸，未老而死。
霸者之子且令而国男女无别。  公孙支书而藏之，秦策於是出。
夫献公之乱，文公之霸，而襄公败秦师於殽而归纵淫，此子之所闻。
今主君之病与之同，不出三日必间，间必有言也。
居二日半，简子寤，语诸大夫曰： 我之帝所甚乐，与百神游於钧天，广乐九奏万舞，不类三代之乐，其声动心。
有一熊欲援我，帝命我射之，中熊，熊死。
有罴来，我又射之，中罴，罴死。
帝甚喜，赐我二笥，皆有副。
吾见兒在帝侧，帝属我一翟犬，曰： 及而子之壮也以赐之。
帝告我： 晋国且世衰，七世而亡。
嬴姓将大败周人於范魁之西，而亦不能有也。  董安于受言，书而藏之。
以扁鹊言告简子，简子赐扁鹊田四万亩。
其后扁鹊过虢。
虢太子死，扁鹊至虢宫门下，问中庶子喜方者曰： 太子何病，国中治穰过於众事？
translation: 
Bian Que was from Miao, Bohai County. His surname was Qin and his name was Yue.
When he was young, he was the manager of a guesthouse.
A guest named Chang Sang came to the guest house. Only Bian Que thought he was a strange person and always treated him respectfully.
Chang Sangjun also knew that Bian Que was not an ordinary person. He had been coming and going for more than ten years. One day, he asked Bian Que to sit with him and quietly said to Bian Que: I have a secret medical prescription. I am old and I want to pass it on to you. Please don't leak it.
Bian Que said: "I respectfully obey my orders."
Then he took out the medicine in his arms and gave it to Bian Que, and said: Take this medicine with the dew on the grass and trees, and you will know many things in thirty days.
Then he took out all his secret recipes and gave them to Bian Que.
Suddenly the person disappeared, maybe he was not a mortal.
Bian Que took the medicine as he said for thirty days, and he could see the people on the other side of the wall.
Therefore, when diagnosing other people's diseases, you can see all the symptoms in the five internal organs, but on the surface, you are still taking the patient's pulse.
Sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Qi, and sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Zhao.
When he was in Zhao State, his name was Bian Que.
During the reign of Duke Zhao of Jin, the power of many officials was strong but the power of the monarch was weak. Zhao Jianzi was a doctor, but he was in charge of state affairs alone.
Zhao Jianzi fell ill and was unconscious for five days. The doctors were very worried and summoned Bian Que.
Bian Que came into the room to examine the patient and walked out. Doctor Dong Anyu asked Bian Que about his condition. Bian Que said: "His blood is normal, why should you be surprised!"
Once upon a time, Duke Mu of Qin was in this situation and fell into a coma for seven days before he woke up.
The day he woke up, he told Gongsun Zhi and Ziyu: I am very happy when I arrive at the Emperor of Heaven.
The reason why I stayed there for such a long time was that the Emperor of Heaven wanted to teach me.
The Emperor of Heaven told me that the Jin Kingdom was about to be in chaos and that the Five Dynasties would not be able to live in peace.
Then someone will become the overlord, and he will die soon after becoming the overlord.
The sons of overlords will make their country's men and women promiscuous. Gongsun Zhi wrote down these words and kept them. Later, the history books of Qin recorded this matter.
You have heard of the promiscuity of Duke Xian of Jin, the dominance of Duke Wen of Jin, and the indulgence of Duke Xiang of Jin after defeating the Qin army in Miao Mountain. You have heard of these.
Now your lord's illness is the same as his, and he will be cured in less than three days. He will definitely say something after he recovers.
After two and a half days, Zhao Jianzi woke up and told the doctors: I was very happy when I went to the Emperor of Heaven. I played with the gods in the center of the sky, where various musical instruments played many music and dances were performed. It was not like the music and dance of the three ancient times. The music was heart-stirring.
There was a bear trying to catch me, and the Emperor of Heaven ordered me to shoot it. I shot the bear, and it died.
A crab came over, I shot it again, and hit it again, and the crab died.
The Emperor was very happy and gave me two bamboo baskets with jewelry inside.
I saw my son beside the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven entrusted me with a Zhai dog and said: Give it to your son when he grows up.
The Emperor of Heaven told me: The Jin Kingdom will decline from generation to generation, and will perish after seven generations.
The Qin people will defeat the Zhou people to the west of Fan Kui, but they will not be able to possess his power. After hearing these words, Dong Anyu recorded and collected them.
People told Zhao Jianzi what Bian Que had said, and Zhao Jianzi gave Bian Que 40,000 acres of land.
Later, Bian Que passed through Guo State.
When the prince of the Guo Kingdom died of illness, Bian Que came to the gate of the palace of the King of Guo and asked a concubine who was fond of medicine: What disease did the prince have? Why did the capital hold rituals to ward off evil spirits and diseases more than many other things?
summary:
Bian Que, a physician from Bohai County, was originally named Qin Yue. As a young innkeeper, he met a mysterious guest named Chang Sang, who recognized his potential and gave him a secret medical prescription. After taking the medicine for thirty days, Bian Que gained the ability to see through walls and diagnose illnesses internally. He practiced medicine in Qi and Zhao, where he became known as Bian Que. During the reign of Duke Zhao of Jin, Zhao Jianzi fell unconscious for five days. Bian Que diagnosed him, noting his blood was normal, and predicted he would recover in three days, similar to a past episode involving Duke Mu of Qin. Zhao Jianzi indeed woke up after two and a half days, recounting a vision of the Emperor of Heaven. He rewarded Bian Que with 40,000 acres of land.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
中庶子曰： 太子病血气不时，交错而不得泄，暴发於外，则为中害。
精神不能止邪气，邪气畜积而不得泄，是以阳缓而阴急，故暴蹶而死。
扁鹊曰： 其死何如时？
曰： 鸡鸣至今。
曰： 收乎？
曰： 未也，其死未能半日也。
言： 臣齐勃海秦越人也，家在於郑，未尝得望精光侍谒於前也。
闻太子不幸而死，臣能生之。
中庶子曰： 先生得无诞之乎？
何以言太子可生也！
臣闻上古之时，医有俞跗，治病不以汤液醴洒，鑱石挢引，案扤毒熨，一拨见病之应，因五藏之输，乃割皮解肌，诀脉结筋，搦髓脑，揲荒爪幕，湔浣肠胃，漱涤五藏，练精易形。先生之方能若是，则太子可生也；不能若是而欲生之，曾不可以告咳婴之兒。
终日，扁鹊仰天叹曰： 夫子之为方也，若以管窥天，以郄视文。
越人之为方也，不待切脉望色听声写形，言病之所在。
闻病之阳，论得其阴；闻病之阴，论得其阳。
病应见於大表，不出千里，决者至众，不可曲止也。
子以吾言为不诚，试入诊太子，当闻其耳鸣而鼻张，循其两股以至於阴，当尚温也。
中庶子闻扁鹊言，目眩然而不瞚，舌挢然而不下，乃以扁鹊言入报虢君。
虢君闻之大惊，出见扁鹊於中阙，曰： 窃闻高义之日久矣，然未尝得拜谒於前也。
先生过小国，幸而举之，偏国寡臣幸甚。
有先生则活，无先生则弃捐填沟壑，长终而不得反。
言末卒，因嘘唏服臆，魂精泄横，流涕长潸，忽忽承镴，悲不能自止，容貌变更。
translation: 
The concubine said: The prince's disease is caused by the irregular circulation of blood and qi, the intertwining of yin and yang and the inability to drain it. It violently breaks out on the surface of the body, but in fact the internal organs are damaged.
The human body's righteous energy cannot stop the evil energy, and the evil energy accumulates and cannot be released. Therefore, the yang energy weakens and the yin evil becomes strong, so the person suddenly faints and dies.
Bian Que asked: When did he die?
The concubine replied: From the time the rooster crows to now.
Asked again: Has it been buried?
He replied: Not yet, he died less than half a day ago.
Please inform Mr. Guo that I am a Qinyue native of Bohai County, and my home is in Midi. I was unable to look up to the king's majesty and pay homage to him.
I heard that the prince passed away unfortunately and I can revive him.
The concubine said: Sir, are you not talking nonsense?
Why do you say the prince can be resurrected!
I heard that in ancient times, there was a doctor named Yu Fu. He did not use decoctions, medicinal wine, trowels, needles, needles, guides, massages, medicinal irons, etc. He could identify the location of the disease as soon as he undressed and examined the acupoints of the five internal organs, then cut the skin and muscles, dredged the meridians, and tied them Tendons, massage the brain, touch the bones, straighten the diaphragm, cleanse the stomach, cleanse the five internal organs, cultivate the essence, and change the expression and complexion. If the gentleman's medical skills can be like this, then the prince can be reborn; if he can't do this, but you want to resurrect him, you can't deceive the baby who just learned to laugh.
After a long time, Bian Que looked up at the sky and sighed and said: The treatment methods you mentioned are like looking at the sky through a bamboo tube or looking at patterns through the gaps.
The treatment method I use can tell the cause of the disease without taking the patient's pulse, looking at the face, listening to the voice, or observing the patient's posture and expression.
If you know the external manifestations of a disease, you can infer the internal causes; if you know the internal causes of the disease, you can infer the external manifestations.
Diseases in the human body will be reflected from the body surface, and based on this, patients thousands of miles away can be diagnosed. I have many ways to make decisions, and I cannot just look at the problem from one angle.
If you think what I said is untrue, try going in and examining the prince. You should hear his ears ringing, see his nose flaring, and feel his legs and genitals, which should still be warm.
After hearing Bian Que's words, the concubine's eyes were dull and he could not blink, his tongue was stuck out and he could not speak. Later, he went in and told Guo Jun what Bian Que had said.
Guo Jun was very surprised after hearing this. He went out of the inner court to meet Bian Que at the middle gate of the palace and said, "I have heard about your noble moral character for a long time, but I have never had the opportunity to meet you."
This time, sir, you are passing through our small country. I hope you can help us. I, the king of this remote country, am so lucky.
As long as the husband is here, my son can be saved. Without the husband, he will throw his body into the wild and fill the ravines, and he will never come back.
Before he finished speaking, he started sobbing with sadness, his mind was in a daze, and he shed tears for a long time. The teardrops rolled down and stuck to his eyelashes. He couldn't restrain his sorrow, and his appearance and expression changed.
summary:
In Guo State, Bian Que encountered a prince who had seemingly died. He explained the prince suffered from "corpse disease," caused by an imbalance of yin and yang, and was not truly dead. Using acupuncture and medicinal applications, Bian Que revived the prince, though he insisted he could not resurrect the dead, only help those who could recover.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
扁鹊曰： 若太子病，所谓 尸蹶 者也。
夫以阳入阴中，动胃繵缘，中经维络，别下於三焦、膀胱，是以阳脉下遂，阴脉上争，会气闭而不通，阴上而阳内行，下内鼓而不起，上外绝而不为使，上有绝阳之络，下有破阴之纽，破阴绝阳，色废脉乱，故形静如死状。
太子未死也。
夫以阳入阴支兰藏者生，以阴入阳支兰藏者死。
凡此数事，皆五藏蹙中之时暴作也。
良工取之，拙者疑殆。
扁鹊乃使弟子子阳厉针砥石，以取外三阳五会。
有间，太子苏。
乃使子豹为五分之熨，以八减之齐和煮之，以更熨两胁下。
太子起坐。
更適阴阳，但服汤二旬而复故。
故天下尽以扁鹊为能生死人。
扁鹊曰： 越人非能生死人也，此自当生者，越人能使之起耳。
扁鹊过齐，齐桓侯客之。
入朝见，曰： 君有疾在腠理，不治将深。
桓侯曰： 寡人无疾。
扁鹊出，桓侯谓左右曰： 医之好利也，欲以不疾者为功。
後五日，扁鹊复见，曰： 君有疾在血脉，不治恐深。
桓侯曰： 寡人无疾。
扁鹊出，桓侯不悦。
後五日，扁鹊复见，曰； 君有疾在肠胃间，不治将深。
桓侯不应。
扁鹊出，桓侯不悦。
後五日，扁鹊复见，望见桓侯而退走。
桓侯使人问其故。
扁鹊曰： 疾之居腠理也，汤熨之所及也；在血脉，针石之所及也；其在肠胃，酒醪之所及也；其在骨髓，虽司命无柰之何。
今在骨髓，臣是以无请也。
後五日，桓侯体病，使人召扁鹊，扁鹊已逃去。
桓侯遂死。
使圣人预知微，能使良医得蚤从事，则疾可已，身可活也。
人之所病，病疾多；而医之所病，病道少。
translation: 
Bian Que said: Your prince's disease is what people call corpse disease.
That's because the Yang Qi sinks into the Yin vessels, and the pulse Qi entangles and impinges on the stomach. The meridians are damaged and the meridians are blocked. They flow into the lower burner and the bladder respectively. Therefore, the Yang vessels sink and the Yin Qi rises. The Yin and Yang Qi converge, block each other, and cannot be unblocked. The yin energy reverses upward movement, and the yang energy has to move inward. The yang energy is in vain stirring in the lower part but cannot rise. The upper part is blocked and cannot be driven by the yin energy. There are veins above that isolate the yang energy, and there are muscles and joints below that destroy the yin energy. In this way, the yin energy is destroyed and the yang energy is isolated, making the person's complexion decayed and the blood vessels confused, so the person's body becomes as quiet as if he was dead.
The prince actually did not die.
Because if yang attacks yin and blocks the internal qi, it can be cured; if yin attacks yang and blocks the internal qi, it will die.
These conditions will suddenly occur when the five internal organs are reversed.
A good doctor can cure the disease, a bad doctor can endanger the patient through confusion.
Bian Que then asked his disciple Ziyang to sharpen the needle stone and use Sanyang and Wuhui to inject needles.
After a while, the prince woke up.
He also asked his disciple Zi Bao to prepare a medicinal iron that could penetrate into the body for five minutes, and then mix and boil the medicine with eight prescriptions, and then apply it alternately under the two flanks.
The prince was able to sit up.
After further harmonizing the yin and yang, my body returned to the same as before after just taking the decoction for twenty days.
Therefore, people all over the world believe that Bian Que can resurrect the dead.
Bian Que said, "I can't resurrect the dead. He should live. All I can do is help him recover."
When Bian Que arrived in Qi, Marquis Huan of Qi treated him as a guest.
He went to the court to pay homage to Marquis Huan and said, "You have a small illness between your skin and muscles. If it is not treated, it will go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que walked out of the palace, Huan Hou said to the people around him: Doctors love utilitarianism and want to attribute the cure of people to their own merits.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in your blood. If you don't treat it, it may go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in the intestines and stomach. If it is not treated, it will invade deeper into the body."
Marquis Huan refused to answer.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went there again. When he saw Huan Hou, he backed away and ran away.
Marquis Huan sent someone to ask him why he ran away.
Bian Que said: If the disease is between the skin and flesh, decoctions and medicinal irons can cure it; if the disease is in the blood, acupuncture and stone can cure it; if the disease is in the intestines and stomach, medicinal wine can cure it; if the disease enters the bone marrow, even the God in charge of life can do nothing.
Now that the disease has entered the bone marrow, I dare not ask for treatment.
Five days later, Marquis Huan fell seriously ill and sent for Bian Que. Bian Que had already fled Qi.
Marquis Huan fell ill and died.
If Marquis Huan could know in advance the hidden symptoms and let good doctors diagnose and treat them as early as possible, then the disease could be cured and his life could be saved.
People worry that there are too many diseases, and doctors worry that there are too few treatments.
summary:
When visiting Qi, Bian Que warned Marquis Huan of a minor illness between his skin and muscles. The marquis ignored him, and over successive visits, the disease progressed to his blood, then intestines and stomach, and finally to his bone marrow, where it became incurable. Marquis Huan died five days after Bian Que fled, illustrating the importance of early treatment.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
故病有六不治：骄恣不论於理，一不治也；轻身重财，二不治也；衣食不能適，三不治也；阴阳并，藏气不定，四不治也；形羸不能服药，五不治也；信巫不信医，六不治也。
有此一者，则重难治也。
扁鹊名闻天下。
过邯郸，闻贵妇人，即为带下医；过雒阳，闻周人爱老人，即为耳目痹医；来入咸阳，闻秦人爱小兒，即为小兒医：随俗为变。
秦太医令李醯自知伎不如扁鹊也，使人刺杀之。
至今天下言脉者，由扁鹊也。
太仓公者，齐太仓长，临菑人也，姓淳于氏，名意。
少而喜医方术。
高后八年，更受师同郡元里公乘阳庆。
庆年七十馀，无子，使意尽去其故方，更悉以禁方予之，传黄帝、扁鹊之脉书，五色诊病，知人死生，决嫌疑，定可治，及药论，甚精。
受之三年，为人治病，决死生多验。
然左右行游诸侯，不以家为家，或不为人治病，病家多怨之者。
文帝四年中，人上书言意，以刑罪当传西之长安。
意有五女，随而泣。
意怒，骂曰： 生子不生男，缓急无可使者！
於是少女缇萦伤父之言，乃随父西。
上书曰： 妾父为吏，齐中称其廉平，今坐法当刑。
妾切痛死者不可复生而刑者不可复续，虽欲改过自新，其道莫由，终不可得。
妾原入身为官婢，以赎父刑罪，使得改行自新也。
书闻，上悲其意，此岁中亦除肉刑法。
意家居，诏召问所为治病死生验者几何人也，主名为谁。
诏问故太仓长臣意： 方伎所长，及所能治病者？
translation: 
Therefore, there are six types of illness that cannot be cured: those who are arrogant, indulgent and unreasonable are the first incurable; those who despise the body and value money are the two incurable; those who dress inappropriately and eat improperly are the three incurable; those who have Yin and Yang disorder and the five internal organs are not functioning properly are the four incurable; those who are very weak and unable to take medicine are the five incurable; those who are superstitious in witchcraft and do not believe in medical skills are the six incurable.
It is very difficult to cure a situation like this.
Bian Que's reputation spread throughout the world.
When he arrived in Handan, he heard that the local people respected women, so he became a doctor to treat women's diseases; when he arrived in Luo, he heard that Zhou people respected the elderly, so he became a doctor specializing in treating deafness, blindness, limbs, and pain; when he arrived in Xianyang, he heard that Qin people loved children, so he became a doctor to treat children's diseases; he changed the scope of his treatment according to the customs of various places.
Li Xi, the imperial physician of Qin, knew that his medical skills were not as good as Bian Que's, so he sent someone to assassinate Bian Que.
Up to now, people all over the world who talk about pulse diagnosis methods follow Bian Que's theory and practice.
This man in Taicang was the chief officer in charge of the granary in the capital of Qi State. He was from Lingan, his surname was Chunyu, and his given name was Yi.
Young but fond of medical skills.
Eight years after Han Gao's death, he once again studied medicine with Gongcheng Yangqing from Yuanli in the same county.
At this time, Yang Qing was over seventy years old and had no descendants who could inherit the medical skills, so he asked Chunyu Yi to put aside all the medical prescriptions he had learned before, and then gave him all the secret recipes he had mastered. He also taught him the pulse books of Huangdi and Bian Que, and the method of diagnosing diseases by observing different colors on the face, so that he could know the patient's life and death in advance, determine difficult diseases, judge whether they could be cured, and the theory of pharmaceuticals.
After studying for three years, he cured people's illnesses, predicted death and life, and accomplished many things.
However, he traveled among the vassal states to practice medicine and study, and did not take care of his family. Sometimes he refused to treat others, so many patients resented him.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote to the court to accuse him. According to the criminal law, he had to be escorted to Chang'an in a carriage.
Chunyu Yi had five daughters who followed him and cried.
He got angry and cursed: If you don't give birth to a boy, there will be no one available at the critical moment!
So the youngest daughter Tiying was very sad after hearing her father's words, so she followed her father westward to Chang'an.
She wrote to the court and said: My father is an official of the court. The people of Qi State praise him for his integrity and justice. Now he has violated the law and been sentenced.
I am very sad that people who are executed cannot regenerate, and those who are disabled by torture cannot recover. Even if they want to change their ways, there is no way to do it, and in the end they cannot do so.
I would rather join the government and become a slave to atone for my father's sins and give him a chance to reform.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty read Tiying's petition, felt compassion for her, and pardoned Chunyu Yi, and abolished corporal punishment that year.
Chunyu Yi lived at home, and the emperor issued an edict asking him how many people had cured people and made decisions about life and death, and what their names were.
The question asked by Chunyu Yi of Taicang before the imperial edict was: What are the specialties of medical skills and what diseases can they cure?
summary:
Bian Que's fame spread, and he adapted his practice to local customs—treating women in Handan, the elderly in Luo, and children in Xianyang. However, Li Xi, the Qin imperial physician, jealous of his skills, had him assassinated. Despite this, Bian Que's methods in pulse diagnosis endured. The text then shifts to Chunyu Yi, a Taicang official from Qi, who studied medicine under Gongcheng Yangqing. Yangqing taught him the pulse books of Huangdi and Bian Que, along with diagnostic methods. After three years, Chunyu Yi became skilled but faced legal trouble in the fourth year of Emperor Wen's reign. His daughter Tiying petitioned the emperor, offering to become a slave to atone for his crimes. Moved by her plea, the emperor pardoned Chunyu Yi and abolished corporal punishment. The historian concluded that Bian Que suffered due to his medical skills, while Chunyu Yi faced punishment but was saved by his daughter Tiying's petition, reflecting Laozi's saying that beautiful things are unlucky.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
齐中御府长信病，臣意入诊其脉，告曰： 热病气也。然暑汗，脉少衰，不死。
曰： 此病得之当浴流水而寒甚，已则热。
信曰： 唯，然！往冬时，为王使於楚，至莒县阳周水，而莒桥梁颇坏，信则揽车辕未欲渡也，马惊，即堕，信身入水中，几死，吏即来救信，出之水中，衣尽濡，有间而身寒，已热如火，至今不可以见寒。
臣意即为之液汤火齐逐热，一饮汗尽，再饮热去，三饮病已。
即使服药，出入二十日，身无病者。
所以知信之病者，切其脉时，并阴。
脉法曰 热病阴阳交者死 。
切之不交，并阴。
并阴者，脉顺清而愈，其热虽未尽，犹活也。
肾气有时间浊，在太阴脉口而希，是水气也。
肾固主水，故以此知之。
失治一时，即转为寒热。
齐王太后病，召臣意入诊脉，曰： 风瘅客脬，难於大小溲，溺赤。
臣意饮以火齐汤，一饮即前後溲，再饮病已，溺如故。
病得之流汗出氵循。氵循者，去衣而汗晞也。
所以知齐王太后病者，臣意诊其脉，切其太阴之口，湿然风气也。
脉法曰 沈之而大坚，浮之而大紧者，病主在肾 。
肾切之而相反也，脉大而躁。
大者，膀胱气也；躁者，中有热而溺赤。
齐章武里曹山跗病，臣意诊其脉，曰： 肺消瘅也，加以寒热。
即告其人曰： 死，不治。
適其共养，此不当医治。
法曰 後三日而当狂，妄起行，欲走；後五日死 。
即如期死。
山跗病得之盛怒而以接内。
所以知山跗之病者，臣意切其脉，肺气热也。
translation: 
A man named Xin from the Imperial Palace of Qi State was ill. I went to his house for diagnosis and treatment. After taking his pulse, I told him: It is the pulse Qi of a fever. However, due to summer heat, excessive sweating and weak pulse, it will not lead to death.
He also said: I got this disease when I bathed in running water when the weather was very cold, and my body became hot after bathing. He said: Well, that's it!
Last winter, when I was on an envoy to the State of Chu for the King of Qi, I walked to the Yangzhou River in Ju County. I saw that the Ju Bridge was badly damaged.
I immediately prepared a liquid decoction and fire medicine for him to drive away the heat evil. After taking one dose of the medicine, he no longer sweated. After taking two doses of the medicine, the fever subsided. After taking three doses, the disease stopped.
After letting him take the medicine for another twenty days, he felt like a healthy person.
The reason why I knew about his illness was because when I checked his pulse, I found that his pulse belonged to the "Bingyin pulse" where heat evil merges into the body.
Pulse theory says: Death caused by internal heat and external heat being confused and intertwined.
When I took his pulse, I found no internal heat and external heat mixed together, but they were both Yin pulses.
Those with Yin pulse and smooth pulse can be cured by Qing method. Although the heat evil is not completely eliminated, it can still be cured and life saved.
I diagnosed that his kidney qi was sometimes heavy and turbid. I could vaguely detect this situation at Taiyin Cunkou, which was water qi.
The kidneys are responsible for the movement of fluids, so we know his condition from this.
If it is not treated for a while, it will become a disease with alternating colds and hotness.
The Queen Mother of the King of Qi was ill and summoned me to check her pulse. I said: It is a disease caused by wind-heat attacking the bladder, making it difficult to defecate and defecate, and the urine is red in color.
I gave her the gunpowder decoction. After one dose, she was able to defecate. After two doses, she was cured and her urine was the same color as before.
This is a disease caused by urinating while sweating. The disease is caused by taking off clothes and letting the sweat dry.
The reason why I knew about the illness of the Queen Mother of Qi was because when I took her pulse, I found that the opening of the Taiyin was moist, which was due to wind-induced pulse energy.
Pulse theory says: The pulse is large, solid and strong when the pulse is cut forcefully, and is large, tense and strong when the pulse is cut gently, which indicates kidney disease.
But when I took the pulse at the kidney area, the situation was opposite. The pulse was thick and restless.
A thick pulse indicates a disease in the bladder; a restless pulse indicates heat in the middle burner, and the urine is red in color.
Cao Shantao in Zhangburi, Qi State, fell ill. After checking his pulse, I said: This is Fei Xiaobing disease, combined with cold and heat syndrome.
I told his family: This disease is fatal and cannot be cured.
You just satisfy the sick person's request and provide for him, and there is no need to treat him any more.
Medical theory says: This disease will cause you to go crazy and run around in three days, and you will die in five days.
Then he died as expected.
Shanta's illness was caused by having sex after being angry.
The reason I knew about Shantao's illness was because I took his pulse and found out from the pulse that he had lung-qi heat.
summary:
Chunyu Yi later detailed his medical cases to the emperor. He diagnosed a censor with gangrene from excessive drinking and sexual activity, predicting death in eight days, which occurred. He treated the King of Qi's son for a gas diaphragm disease caused by melancholy, curing him with a qi decoction. Another patient, Xun, had a hernia from sexual intercourse, treated successfully with fire medicine. A palace official named Xin had a fever from bathing in cold water, cured with a liquid decoction. The Queen Mother of Qi suffered from wind-heat affecting the bladder, treated with gunpowder decoction. Cao Shantao had a fatal lung disease from anger and sexual activity, dying as predicted. Pan Manru died from a mast disease caused by drinking and sex, as diagnosed. Zhao Zhang had wind disease from alcoholism, dying later than predicted due to his porridge diet. The King of Jibei had wind syndrome from sweating on the ground, cured with medicinal wine. Sikong Chu's wife had a hernia from suppressed urination and sex, treated with moxibustion and decoction. A wet nurse had fever from excessive drinking, cured with acupuncture. A maid named Shu died from spleen damage due to sweating, as predicted. A doctor had dental caries from poor hygiene, treated with moxibustion and rinses. A pregnant woman with dystocia was given hyoscyamus powder to deliver. A servant with spleen damage died in spring, as foreseen. King Shichuan had a fever from washing hair, cured with cold water and acupuncture. Song Jian had kidney paralysis from lifting heavy objects, treated with a soft decoction. A maid named Han had internal cold from unfulfilled desire, cured with medicine and moxibustion. A woman with pinworm disease was treated with a purgative. Sima Chunyu had Dongfeng disease from overeating and running, cured with fire agent soup. A man named Po Shi died from lung damage after a fall, as predicted. A doctor named Sui developed gangrene from improper use of Five Stone Powder, dying as warned. The King of Qi, as Marquis of Yangxu, had paralysis from sexual intercourse, cured with gunpowder porridge. Cheng Kaifang developed tracheitis from drinking and wind, becoming paralyzed and mute. Xiang Chu died from male hernia after strenuous activity, as predicted.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
问臣意： 师庆安受之？
闻於齐诸侯不？
对曰： 不知庆所师受。
庆家富，善为医，不肯为人治病，当以此故不闻。
庆又告臣意曰： 慎毋令我子孙知若学我方也。
问臣意： 师庆何见於意而爱意，欲悉教意方？
对曰： 臣意不闻师庆为方善也。
意所以知庆者，意少时好诸方事，臣意试其方，皆多验，精良。
臣意闻菑川唐里公孙光善为古传方，臣意即往谒之。
得见事之，受方化阴阳及传语法，臣意悉受书之。
臣意欲尽受他精方，公孙光曰： 吾方尽矣，不为爱公所。吾身已衰，无所复事之。
是吾年少所受妙方也，悉与公，毋以教人。
臣意曰： 得见事侍公前，悉得禁方，幸甚。
意死不敢妄传人。
居有间，公孙光间处，臣意深论方，见言百世为之精也。
师光喜曰： 公必为国工。
吾有所善者皆疏，同产处临菑，善为方，吾不若，其方甚奇，非世之所闻也。
吾年中时，尝欲受其方，杨中倩不肯，曰 若非其人也 。
胥与公往见之，当知公喜方也。其人亦老矣，其家给富。
时者未往，会庆子男殷来献马，因师光奏马王所，意以故得与殷善。
光又属意於殷曰： 意好数，公必谨遇之，其人圣儒。
即为书以意属阳庆，以故知庆。
臣意事庆谨，以故爱意也。
问臣意曰： 吏民尝有事学意方，及毕尽得意方不？何县里人？
对曰： 临菑人宋邑。邑学，臣意教以五诊，岁馀。
济北王遣太医高期、王禹学，臣意教以经脉高下及奇络结，当论俞所居，及气当上下出入邪逆顺，以宜鑱石，定砭灸处，岁馀。
菑川王时遣太仓马长冯信正方，臣意教以案法逆顺，论药法，定五味及和齐汤法。
高永侯家丞杜信，喜脉，来学，臣意教以上下经脉五诊，二岁馀。
临菑召里唐安来学，臣意教以五诊上下经脉，奇咳，四时应阴阳重，未成，除为齐王侍医。
问臣意： 诊病决死生，能全无失乎？
臣意对曰： 意治病人，必先切其脉，乃治之。
translation: 
Asked again: Who did your teacher Yang Qing study from?
Do the princes of Qi know about him?
He replied: I don’t know who Yang Qing’s teacher is?
Yangqing's family was very wealthy. He was proficient in medical skills, but he refused to treat people. Perhaps because of this, he was not famous.
Yang Qing told me again: Never let my descendants know that you learned medical skills from me.
Asked again: How did your teacher Yang Qing fall in love with you? Why do you want to teach you all the secret medical skills?
He replied: I didn’t know that my teacher Yang Qing’s medical skills were exquisite.
I later learned that it was because when I was young, I liked various medical techniques and prescriptions. I tried his prescriptions, and most of them were effective and exquisite.
I heard that Gongsun Guang of Tangli in Shichuan was good at using ancient medical prescriptions, so I went to see him.
I can be his student and learn from him the medical prescriptions for regulating yin and yang and the medical theories passed down orally, and I will record them all.
I want to learn all his exquisite medical skills. Gongsun Guang said: I have brought out all my secret medical skills. I will not be gracious to you. I am already old and there is nothing left for you to learn.
These are the exquisite medical prescriptions I learned when I was young. I teach them all to you. Don’t teach them to others.
I said: I am very lucky to be able to serve and study in front of you and get all the secret recipes.
Even if I were to die, I would not dare to pass it on to others casually.
After a few days, Gongsun Guang had nothing to do, so I made an in-depth analysis and discussion of medical prescriptions. He thought that my discussion of the medical prescriptions of the past dynasties was wise.
He said happily: You will definitely become a Chinese doctor.
The medical skills I am good at are all neglected. My compatriots who live in Linyi are good at medical skills, but I am not as good as him. His medical prescriptions are very wonderful and cannot be understood by ordinary people.
When I was middle-aged, I wanted to ask him for advice. My friend Yang Zhongqian disagreed and said: You are not the kind of person who can learn medical skills.
I must go with you to see him, and he will know that you love medicine. He is also old, but his family is wealthy.
Before I went there, it happened that Yang Yin, the son of Yang Qing, came to present a horse to the King of Qi, and presented it to the King of Qi through my teacher Gongsun Guangjin. Because of this, I became familiar with Yang Yin.
Gongsun Guang entrusted me to Yang Yin again and said: Chunyu Yi likes medical skills. You must treat him well. He admires the way of saints.
So he wrote a letter recommending me to Yang Qing, so I got to know Yang Qing.
I served Yang Qing respectfully and cautiously, so he liked me.
He also asked: Have any officials or common people ever learned medical skills from you? Has anyone learned all your medical skills? Where are they from?
He replied: Linshan was born in Songyi. He asked me for advice, and I taught him how to look at his face and diagnose diseases. He studied for more than a year.
Gao Ming and Wang Yu, the imperial doctors sent by the King of Jibei, asked me for advice. I taught them the distribution of meridians up and down and the connection positions of abnormal meridians. I often discussed the location of acupoints and the direction of evil and good and reverse when the energy of the meridians circulates. I taught them how to select the acupoints that need meteorite acupuncture treatment for diseases. I learned it for more than a year.
King Sichuan often sent Feng Xin, an officer in charge of horses in the Taicang Department, to ask me to teach him medical skills. I taught him the massage techniques, how to use medicines, and how to determine the nature and taste of medicines and their compatibility to prepare decoctions.
Gao Yonghou's family minister was named Du Xin. He liked diagnosing pulses and came to study. I taught him the distribution of upper and lower meridians and "Five Color Diagnosis", and he studied for more than two years.
Linyi called a man named Tang An to study. I taught him "Five Color Diagnosis", the location of the upper and lower meridians, "Odd Cough Technique", and the principles of the four seasons and the corresponding yin and yang. Without success, he was appointed as the doctor of the King of Qi.
He also asked: Can you make no mistakes when diagnosing and treating people's illnesses and determining their life and death?
He replied: When I treat a patient, I must first feel his pulse and then treat him.
summary:
Chunyu Yi explained that disease names often overlap, requiring careful pulse diagnosis to distinguish them. He noted that patients' deaths sometimes deviate from predictions due to diet or improper treatment. He avoided serving as a court physician, traveling to learn from multiple teachers. His teacher Yangqing, from a wealthy family, taught him secretly. Chunyu Yi also taught several students, including Songyi, Gao Ming, Wang Yu, Feng Xin, Du Xin, and Tang An, though not all mastered his skills. He admitted that errors in pulse diagnosis could lead to mistakes in predicting outcomes.

