Chunk 0: 
original: 
扁鹊者，勃海郡郑人也，姓秦氏，名越人。
少时为人舍长。
舍客长桑君过，扁鹊独奇之，常谨遇之。
长桑君亦知扁鹊非常人也。出入十馀年，乃呼扁鹊私坐，间与语曰： 我有禁方，年老，欲传与公，公毋泄。
扁鹊曰： 敬诺。
乃出其怀中药予扁鹊： 饮是以上池之水三十日，当知物矣。
乃悉取其禁方书尽与扁鹊。
忽然不见，殆非人也。
扁鹊以其言饮药三十日，视见垣一方人。
以此视病，尽见五藏症结，特以诊脉为名耳。
为医或在齐，或在赵。
在赵者名扁鹊。
当晋昭公时，诸大夫彊而公族弱，赵简子为大夫，专国事。
简子疾，五日不知人，大夫皆惧，於是召扁鹊。
扁鹊入视病，出，董安于问扁鹊，扁鹊曰： 血脉治也，而何怪！
昔秦穆公尝如此，七日而寤。
寤之日，告公孙支与子舆曰： 我之帝所甚乐。
吾所以久者，適有所学也。
帝告我： 晋国且大乱，五世不安。
其後将霸，未老而死。
霸者之子且令而国男女无别。  公孙支书而藏之，秦策於是出。
夫献公之乱，文公之霸，而襄公败秦师於殽而归纵淫，此子之所闻。
今主君之病与之同，不出三日必间，间必有言也。
居二日半，简子寤，语诸大夫曰： 我之帝所甚乐，与百神游於钧天，广乐九奏万舞，不类三代之乐，其声动心。
有一熊欲援我，帝命我射之，中熊，熊死。
有罴来，我又射之，中罴，罴死。
帝甚喜，赐我二笥，皆有副。
吾见兒在帝侧，帝属我一翟犬，曰： 及而子之壮也以赐之。
帝告我： 晋国且世衰，七世而亡。
嬴姓将大败周人於范魁之西，而亦不能有也。  董安于受言，书而藏之。
以扁鹊言告简子，简子赐扁鹊田四万亩。
其后扁鹊过虢。
虢太子死，扁鹊至虢宫门下，问中庶子喜方者曰： 太子何病，国中治穰过於众事？
translation: 
Bian Que was from Miao, Bohai County. His surname was Qin and his name was Yue.
When he was young, he was the manager of a guesthouse.
A guest named Chang Sang came to the guest house. Only Bian Que thought he was a strange person and always treated him respectfully.
Chang Sangjun also knew that Bian Que was not an ordinary person. He had been coming and going for more than ten years. One day, he asked Bian Que to sit with him and quietly said to Bian Que: I have a secret medical prescription. I am old and I want to pass it on to you. Please don't leak it.
Bian Que said: "I respectfully obey my orders."
Then he took out the medicine in his arms and gave it to Bian Que, and said: Take this medicine with the dew on the grass and trees, and you will know many things in thirty days.
Then he took out all his secret recipes and gave them to Bian Que.
Suddenly the person disappeared, maybe he was not a mortal.
Bian Que took the medicine as he said for thirty days, and he could see the people on the other side of the wall.
Therefore, when diagnosing other people's diseases, you can see all the symptoms in the five internal organs, but on the surface, you are still taking the patient's pulse.
Sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Qi, and sometimes he practiced medicine in the state of Zhao.
When he was in Zhao State, his name was Bian Que.
During the reign of Duke Zhao of Jin, the power of many officials was strong but the power of the monarch was weak. Zhao Jianzi was a doctor, but he was in charge of state affairs alone.
Zhao Jianzi fell ill and was unconscious for five days. The doctors were very worried and summoned Bian Que.
Bian Que came into the room to examine the patient and walked out. Doctor Dong Anyu asked Bian Que about his condition. Bian Que said: "His blood is normal, why should you be surprised!"
Once upon a time, Duke Mu of Qin was in this situation and fell into a coma for seven days before he woke up.
The day he woke up, he told Gongsun Zhi and Ziyu: I am very happy when I arrive at the Emperor of Heaven.
The reason why I stayed there for such a long time was that the Emperor of Heaven wanted to teach me.
The Emperor of Heaven told me that the Jin Kingdom was about to be in chaos and that the Five Dynasties would not be able to live in peace.
Then someone will become the overlord, and he will die soon after becoming the overlord.
The sons of overlords will make their country's men and women promiscuous. Gongsun Zhi wrote down these words and kept them. Later, the history books of Qin recorded this matter.
You have heard of the promiscuity of Duke Xian of Jin, the dominance of Duke Wen of Jin, and the indulgence of Duke Xiang of Jin after defeating the Qin army in Miao Mountain. You have heard of these.
Now your lord's illness is the same as his, and he will be cured in less than three days. He will definitely say something after he recovers.
After two and a half days, Zhao Jianzi woke up and told the doctors: I was very happy when I went to the Emperor of Heaven. I played with the gods in the center of the sky, where various musical instruments played many music and dances were performed. It was not like the music and dance of the three ancient times. The music was heart-stirring.
There was a bear trying to catch me, and the Emperor of Heaven ordered me to shoot it. I shot the bear, and it died.
A crab came over, I shot it again, and hit it again, and the crab died.
The Emperor was very happy and gave me two bamboo baskets with jewelry inside.
I saw my son beside the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven entrusted me with a Zhai dog and said: Give it to your son when he grows up.
The Emperor of Heaven told me: The Jin Kingdom will decline from generation to generation, and will perish after seven generations.
The Qin people will defeat the Zhou people to the west of Fan Kui, but they will not be able to possess his power. After hearing these words, Dong Anyu recorded and collected them.
People told Zhao Jianzi what Bian Que had said, and Zhao Jianzi gave Bian Que 40,000 acres of land.
Later, Bian Que passed through Guo State.
When the prince of the Guo Kingdom died of illness, Bian Que came to the gate of the palace of the King of Guo and asked a concubine who was fond of medicine: What disease did the prince have? Why did the capital hold rituals to ward off evil spirits and diseases more than many other things?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
中庶子曰： 太子病血气不时，交错而不得泄，暴发於外，则为中害。
精神不能止邪气，邪气畜积而不得泄，是以阳缓而阴急，故暴蹶而死。
扁鹊曰： 其死何如时？
曰： 鸡鸣至今。
曰： 收乎？
曰： 未也，其死未能半日也。
言： 臣齐勃海秦越人也，家在於郑，未尝得望精光侍谒於前也。
闻太子不幸而死，臣能生之。
中庶子曰： 先生得无诞之乎？
何以言太子可生也！
臣闻上古之时，医有俞跗，治病不以汤液醴洒，鑱石挢引，案扤毒熨，一拨见病之应，因五藏之输，乃割皮解肌，诀脉结筋，搦髓脑，揲荒爪幕，湔浣肠胃，漱涤五藏，练精易形。先生之方能若是，则太子可生也；不能若是而欲生之，曾不可以告咳婴之兒。
终日，扁鹊仰天叹曰： 夫子之为方也，若以管窥天，以郄视文。
越人之为方也，不待切脉望色听声写形，言病之所在。
闻病之阳，论得其阴；闻病之阴，论得其阳。
病应见於大表，不出千里，决者至众，不可曲止也。
子以吾言为不诚，试入诊太子，当闻其耳鸣而鼻张，循其两股以至於阴，当尚温也。
中庶子闻扁鹊言，目眩然而不瞚，舌挢然而不下，乃以扁鹊言入报虢君。
虢君闻之大惊，出见扁鹊於中阙，曰： 窃闻高义之日久矣，然未尝得拜谒於前也。
先生过小国，幸而举之，偏国寡臣幸甚。
有先生则活，无先生则弃捐填沟壑，长终而不得反。
言末卒，因嘘唏服臆，魂精泄横，流涕长潸，忽忽承镴，悲不能自止，容貌变更。
translation: 
The concubine said: The prince's disease is caused by the irregular circulation of blood and qi, the intertwining of yin and yang and the inability to drain it. It violently breaks out on the surface of the body, but in fact the internal organs are damaged.
The human body's righteous energy cannot stop the evil energy, and the evil energy accumulates and cannot be released. Therefore, the yang energy weakens and the yin evil becomes strong, so the person suddenly faints and dies.
Bian Que asked: When did he die?
The concubine replied: From the time the rooster crows to now.
Asked again: Has it been buried?
He replied: Not yet, he died less than half a day ago.
Please inform Mr. Guo that I am a Qinyue native of Bohai County, and my home is in Midi. I was unable to look up to the king's majesty and pay homage to him.
I heard that the prince passed away unfortunately and I can revive him.
The concubine said: Sir, are you not talking nonsense?
Why do you say the prince can be resurrected!
I heard that in ancient times, there was a doctor named Yu Fu. He did not use decoctions, medicinal wine, trowels, needles, needles, guides, massages, medicinal irons, etc. He could identify the location of the disease as soon as he undressed and examined the acupoints of the five internal organs, then cut the skin and muscles, dredged the meridians, and tied them Tendons, massage the brain, touch the bones, straighten the diaphragm, cleanse the stomach, cleanse the five internal organs, cultivate the essence, and change the expression and complexion. If the gentleman's medical skills can be like this, then the prince can be reborn; if he can't do this, but you want to resurrect him, you can't deceive the baby who just learned to laugh.
After a long time, Bian Que looked up at the sky and sighed and said: The treatment methods you mentioned are like looking at the sky through a bamboo tube or looking at patterns through the gaps.
The treatment method I use can tell the cause of the disease without taking the patient's pulse, looking at the face, listening to the voice, or observing the patient's posture and expression.
If you know the external manifestations of a disease, you can infer the internal causes; if you know the internal causes of the disease, you can infer the external manifestations.
Diseases in the human body will be reflected from the body surface, and based on this, patients thousands of miles away can be diagnosed. I have many ways to make decisions, and I cannot just look at the problem from one angle.
If you think what I said is untrue, try going in and examining the prince. You should hear his ears ringing, see his nose flaring, and feel his legs and genitals, which should still be warm.
After hearing Bian Que's words, the concubine's eyes were dull and he could not blink, his tongue was stuck out and he could not speak. Later, he went in and told Guo Jun what Bian Que had said.
Guo Jun was very surprised after hearing this. He went out of the inner court to meet Bian Que at the middle gate of the palace and said, "I have heard about your noble moral character for a long time, but I have never had the opportunity to meet you."
This time, sir, you are passing through our small country. I hope you can help us. I, the king of this remote country, am so lucky.
As long as the husband is here, my son can be saved. Without the husband, he will throw his body into the wild and fill the ravines, and he will never come back.
Before he finished speaking, he started sobbing with sadness, his mind was in a daze, and he shed tears for a long time. The teardrops rolled down and stuck to his eyelashes. He couldn't restrain his sorrow, and his appearance and expression changed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
扁鹊曰： 若太子病，所谓 尸蹶 者也。
夫以阳入阴中，动胃繵缘，中经维络，别下於三焦、膀胱，是以阳脉下遂，阴脉上争，会气闭而不通，阴上而阳内行，下内鼓而不起，上外绝而不为使，上有绝阳之络，下有破阴之纽，破阴绝阳，色废脉乱，故形静如死状。
太子未死也。
夫以阳入阴支兰藏者生，以阴入阳支兰藏者死。
凡此数事，皆五藏蹙中之时暴作也。
良工取之，拙者疑殆。
扁鹊乃使弟子子阳厉针砥石，以取外三阳五会。
有间，太子苏。
乃使子豹为五分之熨，以八减之齐和煮之，以更熨两胁下。
太子起坐。
更適阴阳，但服汤二旬而复故。
故天下尽以扁鹊为能生死人。
扁鹊曰： 越人非能生死人也，此自当生者，越人能使之起耳。
扁鹊过齐，齐桓侯客之。
入朝见，曰： 君有疾在腠理，不治将深。
桓侯曰： 寡人无疾。
扁鹊出，桓侯谓左右曰： 医之好利也，欲以不疾者为功。
後五日，扁鹊复见，曰： 君有疾在血脉，不治恐深。
桓侯曰： 寡人无疾。
扁鹊出，桓侯不悦。
後五日，扁鹊复见，曰； 君有疾在肠胃间，不治将深。
桓侯不应。
扁鹊出，桓侯不悦。
後五日，扁鹊复见，望见桓侯而退走。
桓侯使人问其故。
扁鹊曰： 疾之居腠理也，汤熨之所及也；在血脉，针石之所及也；其在肠胃，酒醪之所及也；其在骨髓，虽司命无柰之何。
今在骨髓，臣是以无请也。
後五日，桓侯体病，使人召扁鹊，扁鹊已逃去。
桓侯遂死。
使圣人预知微，能使良医得蚤从事，则疾可已，身可活也。
人之所病，病疾多；而医之所病，病道少。
translation: 
Bian Que said: Your prince's disease is what people call corpse disease.
That's because the Yang Qi sinks into the Yin vessels, and the pulse Qi entangles and impinges on the stomach. The meridians are damaged and the meridians are blocked. They flow into the lower burner and the bladder respectively. Therefore, the Yang vessels sink and the Yin Qi rises. The Yin and Yang Qi converge, block each other, and cannot be unblocked. The yin energy reverses upward movement, and the yang energy has to move inward. The yang energy is in vain stirring in the lower part but cannot rise. The upper part is blocked and cannot be driven by the yin energy. There are veins above that isolate the yang energy, and there are muscles and joints below that destroy the yin energy. In this way, the yin energy is destroyed and the yang energy is isolated, making the person's complexion decayed and the blood vessels confused, so the person's body becomes as quiet as if he was dead.
The prince actually did not die.
Because if yang attacks yin and blocks the internal qi, it can be cured; if yin attacks yang and blocks the internal qi, it will die.
These conditions will suddenly occur when the five internal organs are reversed.
A good doctor can cure the disease, a bad doctor can endanger the patient through confusion.
Bian Que then asked his disciple Ziyang to sharpen the needle stone and use Sanyang and Wuhui to inject needles.
After a while, the prince woke up.
He also asked his disciple Zi Bao to prepare a medicinal iron that could penetrate into the body for five minutes, and then mix and boil the medicine with eight prescriptions, and then apply it alternately under the two flanks.
The prince was able to sit up.
After further harmonizing the yin and yang, my body returned to the same as before after just taking the decoction for twenty days.
Therefore, people all over the world believe that Bian Que can resurrect the dead.
Bian Que said, "I can't resurrect the dead. He should live. All I can do is help him recover."
When Bian Que arrived in Qi, Marquis Huan of Qi treated him as a guest.
He went to the court to pay homage to Marquis Huan and said, "You have a small illness between your skin and muscles. If it is not treated, it will go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que walked out of the palace, Huan Hou said to the people around him: Doctors love utilitarianism and want to attribute the cure of people to their own merits.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in your blood. If you don't treat it, it may go deep into your body."
Marquis Huan said: I am not sick.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went to see Huan Hou again and said, "Your disease is already in the intestines and stomach. If it is not treated, it will invade deeper into the body."
Marquis Huan refused to answer.
After Bian Que went out, Marquis Huan was unhappy.
Five days later, Bian Que went there again. When he saw Huan Hou, he backed away and ran away.
Marquis Huan sent someone to ask him why he ran away.
Bian Que said: If the disease is between the skin and flesh, decoctions and medicinal irons can cure it; if the disease is in the blood, acupuncture and stone can cure it; if the disease is in the intestines and stomach, medicinal wine can cure it; if the disease enters the bone marrow, even the God in charge of life can do nothing.
Now that the disease has entered the bone marrow, I dare not ask for treatment.
Five days later, Marquis Huan fell seriously ill and sent for Bian Que. Bian Que had already fled Qi.
Marquis Huan fell ill and died.
If Marquis Huan could know in advance the hidden symptoms and let good doctors diagnose and treat them as early as possible, then the disease could be cured and his life could be saved.
People worry that there are too many diseases, and doctors worry that there are too few treatments.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故病有六不治：骄恣不论於理，一不治也；轻身重财，二不治也；衣食不能適，三不治也；阴阳并，藏气不定，四不治也；形羸不能服药，五不治也；信巫不信医，六不治也。
有此一者，则重难治也。
扁鹊名闻天下。
过邯郸，闻贵妇人，即为带下医；过雒阳，闻周人爱老人，即为耳目痹医；来入咸阳，闻秦人爱小兒，即为小兒医：随俗为变。
秦太医令李醯自知伎不如扁鹊也，使人刺杀之。
至今天下言脉者，由扁鹊也。
太仓公者，齐太仓长，临菑人也，姓淳于氏，名意。
少而喜医方术。
高后八年，更受师同郡元里公乘阳庆。
庆年七十馀，无子，使意尽去其故方，更悉以禁方予之，传黄帝、扁鹊之脉书，五色诊病，知人死生，决嫌疑，定可治，及药论，甚精。
受之三年，为人治病，决死生多验。
然左右行游诸侯，不以家为家，或不为人治病，病家多怨之者。
文帝四年中，人上书言意，以刑罪当传西之长安。
意有五女，随而泣。
意怒，骂曰： 生子不生男，缓急无可使者！
於是少女缇萦伤父之言，乃随父西。
上书曰： 妾父为吏，齐中称其廉平，今坐法当刑。
妾切痛死者不可复生而刑者不可复续，虽欲改过自新，其道莫由，终不可得。
妾原入身为官婢，以赎父刑罪，使得改行自新也。
书闻，上悲其意，此岁中亦除肉刑法。
意家居，诏召问所为治病死生验者几何人也，主名为谁。
诏问故太仓长臣意： 方伎所长，及所能治病者？
translation: 
Therefore, there are six types of illness that cannot be cured: those who are arrogant, indulgent and unreasonable are the first incurable; those who despise the body and value money are the two incurable; those who dress inappropriately and eat improperly are the three incurable; those who have Yin and Yang disorder and the five internal organs are not functioning properly are the four incurable; those who are very weak and unable to take medicine are the five incurable; those who are superstitious in witchcraft and do not believe in medical skills are the six incurable.
It is very difficult to cure a situation like this.
Bian Que's reputation spread throughout the world.
When he arrived in Handan, he heard that the local people respected women, so he became a doctor to treat women's diseases; when he arrived in Luo, he heard that Zhou people respected the elderly, so he became a doctor specializing in treating deafness, blindness, limbs, and pain; when he arrived in Xianyang, he heard that Qin people loved children, so he became a doctor to treat children's diseases; he changed the scope of his treatment according to the customs of various places.
Li Xi, the imperial physician of Qin, knew that his medical skills were not as good as Bian Que's, so he sent someone to assassinate Bian Que.
Up to now, people all over the world who talk about pulse diagnosis methods follow Bian Que's theory and practice.
This man in Taicang was the chief officer in charge of the granary in the capital of Qi State. He was from Lingan, his surname was Chunyu, and his given name was Yi.
Young but fond of medical skills.
Eight years after Han Gao's death, he once again studied medicine with Gongcheng Yangqing from Yuanli in the same county.
At this time, Yang Qing was over seventy years old and had no descendants who could inherit the medical skills, so he asked Chunyu Yi to put aside all the medical prescriptions he had learned before, and then gave him all the secret recipes he had mastered. He also taught him the pulse books of Huangdi and Bian Que, and the method of diagnosing diseases by observing different colors on the face, so that he could know the patient's life and death in advance, determine difficult diseases, judge whether they could be cured, and the theory of pharmaceuticals.
After studying for three years, he cured people's illnesses, predicted death and life, and accomplished many things.
However, he traveled among the vassal states to practice medicine and study, and did not take care of his family. Sometimes he refused to treat others, so many patients resented him.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, someone wrote to the court to accuse him. According to the criminal law, he had to be escorted to Chang'an in a carriage.
Chunyu Yi had five daughters who followed him and cried.
He got angry and cursed: If you don't give birth to a boy, there will be no one available at the critical moment!
So the youngest daughter Tiying was very sad after hearing her father's words, so she followed her father westward to Chang'an.
She wrote to the court and said: My father is an official of the court. The people of Qi State praise him for his integrity and justice. Now he has violated the law and been sentenced.
I am very sad that people who are executed cannot regenerate, and those who are disabled by torture cannot recover. Even if they want to change their ways, there is no way to do it, and in the end they cannot do so.
I would rather join the government and become a slave to atone for my father's sins and give him a chance to reform.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty read Tiying's petition, felt compassion for her, and pardoned Chunyu Yi, and abolished corporal punishment that year.
Chunyu Yi lived at home, and the emperor issued an edict asking him how many people had cured people and made decisions about life and death, and what their names were.
The question asked by Chunyu Yi of Taicang before the imperial edict was: What are the specialties of medical skills and what diseases can they cure?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
有其书无有？
皆安受学？
受学几何岁？
尝有所验，何县里人也？何病？
医药已，其病之状皆何如？
具悉而对。
臣意对曰：自意少时，喜医药，医药方试之多不验者。
至高后八年，得见师临菑元里公乘阳庆。
庆年七十馀，意得见事之。
谓意曰： 尽去而方书，非是也。
庆有古先道遗传黄帝、扁鹊之脉书，五色诊病，知人生死，决嫌疑，定可治，及药论书，甚精。
我家给富，心爱公，欲尽以我禁方书悉教公。
臣意即曰： 幸甚，非意之所敢望也。
臣意即避席再拜谒，受其脉书上下经、五色诊、奇咳术、揆度阴阳外变、药论、石神、接阴阳禁书，受读解验之，可一年所。
明岁即验之，有验，然尚未精也。
要事之三年所，即尝已为人治，诊病决死生，有验，精良。
今庆已死十年所，臣意年尽三年，年三十九岁也。
齐侍御史成自言病头痛，臣意诊其脉，告曰： 君之病恶，不可言也。
即出，独告成弟昌曰： 此病疽也，内发於肠胃之间，後五日当鍮肿，後八日呕脓死。
成之病得之饮酒且内。
成即如期死。
所以知成之病者，臣意切其脉，得肝气。
肝气浊而静，此内关之病也。
脉法曰 脉长而弦，不得代四时者，其病主在於肝。
和即经主病也，代则络脉有过 。
经主病和者，其病得之筋髓里。
其代绝而脉贲者，病得之酒且内。
所以知其後五日而鍮肿，八日呕脓死者，切其脉时，少阳初代。
translation: 
Are there any medical books?
Who did you learn medicine from?
How many years have you studied? Who have you cured?
Where are they from? What disease do you have?
How is your condition after treatment? All answered in detail.
Chunyu Yi replied:
When I was young, I was fond of medical prescriptions, and most of the time I tried to treat people with the medical prescriptions I learned had no effect.
In the eighth year of high school, I was able to meet my teacher, Gongcheng Yangqing in Linshan Fanli.
Yang Qing was now over seventy years old, and I was able to pay him a visit and serve him.
He said to me: Put aside all the medical books you have studied, these are incorrect.
I have the pulse diagnosis books of Huang Di and Bian Que taught by ancient ancient doctors, as well as the method of diagnosing diseases by observing the different colors of the face, so that you can predict the patient's life and death, determine difficult diseases, and determine whether they can be cured. There are also books on pharmaceutical theory, which are all very insightful.
My family is rich, and just because I like you in my heart, I want to teach you all the secret recipes and books I have collected.
I said: I'm so lucky, these are not things I dare to hope for.
After saying that, I left the seat and thanked the teacher again. I studied the "Pulse Book", "Shang Jing" and "Xia Jing" taught by him, as well as facial diagnosis, auscultation, external observation of yin and yang, pharmacology, meteorite magic, Fang Zhongshu and other secret books and medical skills. I paid attention to analysis and experience while studying, which took about a year.
The next year, I tried to treat people, but although it was effective, it was not perfect.
I have studied with him for about three years in total. The patients I have treated and the people who have diagnosed their conditions and made decisions about life and death have all been effective and have reached a sophisticated level.
Yang Qing has been dead for more than ten years now. I have studied with him for three years. I am now thirty-nine years old.
A censor named Cheng from the State of Qi reported that he had a headache. After checking his pulse, I told him: Your condition is serious and cannot be explained clearly at once.
After coming out, he only told his brother Chang: This is gangrene, which occurs between the intestines and stomach. It will swell in five days, and in eight days, you will vomit pus and blood and die.
Cheng's illness was caused by having sex after drinking too much.
As a result, he died as expected.
The reason why I was able to diagnose his illness was because when I took the pulse, I could detect the pulse qi of the liver disease.
If the pulse is heavy and turbid but calm, this is a serious disease on the inside but not obvious on the outside.
Pulse theory says: The pulse is long and straight like a bowstring, and cannot change with the changes of the seasons. The disease is mainly in the liver.
Although the pulse is long, straight and hard but uniform and harmonious, it means that the meridians of the liver are diseased. If the pulses are sometimes sparse and sometimes dense, restless and powerful, it means that the meridians of the liver are diseased.
If the meridians of the liver are diseased but the meridians are even, the disease is caused by the tendons and marrow.
His pulse was sparse, dense, stopped, and weak. His illness was caused by drinking heavily and having sex.
The reason I knew he would swell up after five days and die after eight days of vomiting pus and blood was that when I cut his pulse, I found that the Shaoyang meridian had a pulse pattern similar to that of the pulse pulse.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
代者经病，病去过人，人则去。
络脉主病，当其时，少阳初关一分，故中热而脓未发也，及五分，则至少阳之界，及八日，则呕脓死，故上二分而脓发，至界而鍮肿，尽泄而死。
热上则熏阳明，烂流络，流络动则脉结发，脉结发则烂解，故络交。
热气已上行，至头而动，故头痛。
齐王中子诸婴兒小子病，召臣意诊切其脉，告曰： 气鬲病。病使人烦懑，食不下，时呕沫。
病得之忧，数忔食饮。
臣意即为之作下气汤以饮之，一日气下，二日能食，三日即病愈。
所以知小子之病者，诊其脉，心气也，浊躁而经也，此络阳病也。
脉法曰 脉来数疾去难而不一者，病主在心 。
周身热，脉盛者，为重阳。
重阳者，逿心主。故烦懑食不下则络脉有过，络脉有过则血上出，血上出者死。
此悲心所生也，病得之忧也。
齐郎中令循病，众医皆以为蹙入中，而刺之。
臣意诊之，曰： 涌疝也，令人不得前後溲。
循曰： 不得前後溲三日矣。
臣意饮以火齐汤，一饮得前溲，再饮大溲，三饮而疾愈。
病得之内。
所以知循病者，切其脉时，右口气急，脉无五藏气，右口脉大而数。
数者中下热而涌，左为下，右为上，皆无五藏应，故曰涌疝。
中热，故溺赤也。
translation: 
Daimai is a disease of the meridians. If the disease develops throughout the body, the person will die.
Symptoms of the collaterals occur. At this time, the Dai pulse appears in the first branch of Guan on the left hand. This is the heat accumulated in the body but the pus and blood have not come out. When it reaches the fifth branch of Guan, it reaches the boundary of Shaoyang meridian. Eight days later, it will vomit pus and blood and die. Therefore, when it reaches the second branch of Guan, pus and blood will appear. When it reaches the boundary of Shaoyang meridian, it will swell. Afterwards, the sore will burst and pus will leak out and die.
Once the internal heat scorches the Yangming meridians and burns the branches of the collaterals, collateral disease will lead to stagnation and swelling of the meridians. The stagnation and swelling of the meridians will then cause erosion and dissociation. Therefore, the collaterals are blocked alternately.
This causes the heat evil to invade the head, causing the head to be disturbed and causing a headache.
The boy, the second son of the King of Qi, was ill, so he called me to take his pulse and diagnose him. I told him: This is a gas diaphragm disease. This disease makes people feel depressed, unable to eat, and often vomit gastric juice.
This disease is caused by depression and frequent anorexia.
I immediately prepared some qi decoction for him to drink. The diaphragmatic qi subsided in just one day, and he was able to eat after another two days. After three days, he was completely cured.
The reason why I knew his condition was because when I took his pulse, I found that he had a heart disease. The pulse was turbid, heavy, and irritable. This was Yang collateral disease.
Pulse theory says: If the pulse is strong and rapid when it reaches the finger, but is difficult and inconsistent when it leaves the finger, the disease is in the heart.
The whole body feels warm and the pulse is strong, which is called Double Ninth Festival.
Excessive yang energy will disturb the mind, so the heart will be depressed and unable to eat, and the collaterals will be diseased. If the collaterals are diseased, blood will come out from the top, and if the blood comes out from the top, the person will die.
This is a disease of inner sorrow, a disease of melancholy.
A doctor named Xun of Qi State was ill. Many doctors believed that the adverse qi started from the lower body and traveled upwards into the abdomen and chest, so they used acupuncture to treat him.
After examination, I said: This is a hernia. This disease makes people unable to urinate and defecate.
Xun replied: "I haven't been able to urinate or defecate for three days."
I gave him fire medicine decoction. After taking one dose, he could urinate and defecate. After taking the second dose, his urination and defecation were very smooth. After taking the third dose, he was cured.
His illness was caused by sexual intercourse.
The reason why I knew the disease he was suffering from was because when I took the pulse, the pulse in the cunkou of his right hand was urgent. The pulse did not reflect any disease in the five internal organs. The pulse in the cunkou of his right hand was strong and fast.
A fast pulse means heat evil is surging in the middle and lower burners. A fast pulse in his left hand means heat evil is flowing downwards. A fast pulse in his right hand means heat evil is surging up. There is no reaction of disease qi from the five internal organs, so it is said to be "gushing hernia".
The middle burner accumulates heat, so the urine is red.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
齐中御府长信病，臣意入诊其脉，告曰： 热病气也。然暑汗，脉少衰，不死。
曰： 此病得之当浴流水而寒甚，已则热。
信曰： 唯，然！往冬时，为王使於楚，至莒县阳周水，而莒桥梁颇坏，信则揽车辕未欲渡也，马惊，即堕，信身入水中，几死，吏即来救信，出之水中，衣尽濡，有间而身寒，已热如火，至今不可以见寒。
臣意即为之液汤火齐逐热，一饮汗尽，再饮热去，三饮病已。
即使服药，出入二十日，身无病者。
所以知信之病者，切其脉时，并阴。
脉法曰 热病阴阳交者死 。
切之不交，并阴。
并阴者，脉顺清而愈，其热虽未尽，犹活也。
肾气有时间浊，在太阴脉口而希，是水气也。
肾固主水，故以此知之。
失治一时，即转为寒热。
齐王太后病，召臣意入诊脉，曰： 风瘅客脬，难於大小溲，溺赤。
臣意饮以火齐汤，一饮即前後溲，再饮病已，溺如故。
病得之流汗出氵循。氵循者，去衣而汗晞也。
所以知齐王太后病者，臣意诊其脉，切其太阴之口，湿然风气也。
脉法曰 沈之而大坚，浮之而大紧者，病主在肾 。
肾切之而相反也，脉大而躁。
大者，膀胱气也；躁者，中有热而溺赤。
齐章武里曹山跗病，臣意诊其脉，曰： 肺消瘅也，加以寒热。
即告其人曰： 死，不治。
適其共养，此不当医治。
法曰 後三日而当狂，妄起行，欲走；後五日死 。
即如期死。
山跗病得之盛怒而以接内。
所以知山跗之病者，臣意切其脉，肺气热也。
translation: 
A man named Xin from the Imperial Palace of Qi State was ill. I went to his house for diagnosis and treatment. After taking his pulse, I told him: It is the pulse Qi of a fever. However, due to summer heat, excessive sweating and weak pulse, it will not lead to death.
He also said: I got this disease when I bathed in running water when the weather was very cold, and my body became hot after bathing. He said: Well, that's it!
Last winter, when I was on an envoy to the State of Chu for the King of Qi, I walked to the Yangzhou River in Ju County. I saw that the Ju Bridge was badly damaged.
I immediately prepared a liquid decoction and fire medicine for him to drive away the heat evil. After taking one dose of the medicine, he no longer sweated. After taking two doses of the medicine, the fever subsided. After taking three doses, the disease stopped.
After letting him take the medicine for another twenty days, he felt like a healthy person.
The reason why I knew about his illness was because when I checked his pulse, I found that his pulse belonged to the "Bingyin pulse" where heat evil merges into the body.
Pulse theory says: Death caused by internal heat and external heat being confused and intertwined.
When I took his pulse, I found no internal heat and external heat mixed together, but they were both Yin pulses.
Those with Yin pulse and smooth pulse can be cured by Qing method. Although the heat evil is not completely eliminated, it can still be cured and life saved.
I diagnosed that his kidney qi was sometimes heavy and turbid. I could vaguely detect this situation at Taiyin Cunkou, which was water qi.
The kidneys are responsible for the movement of fluids, so we know his condition from this.
If it is not treated for a while, it will become a disease with alternating colds and hotness.
The Queen Mother of the King of Qi was ill and summoned me to check her pulse. I said: It is a disease caused by wind-heat attacking the bladder, making it difficult to defecate and defecate, and the urine is red in color.
I gave her the gunpowder decoction. After one dose, she was able to defecate. After two doses, she was cured and her urine was the same color as before.
This is a disease caused by urinating while sweating. The disease is caused by taking off clothes and letting the sweat dry.
The reason why I knew about the illness of the Queen Mother of Qi was because when I took her pulse, I found that the opening of the Taiyin was moist, which was due to wind-induced pulse energy.
Pulse theory says: The pulse is large, solid and strong when the pulse is cut forcefully, and is large, tense and strong when the pulse is cut gently, which indicates kidney disease.
But when I took the pulse at the kidney area, the situation was opposite. The pulse was thick and restless.
A thick pulse indicates a disease in the bladder; a restless pulse indicates heat in the middle burner, and the urine is red in color.
Cao Shantao in Zhangburi, Qi State, fell ill. After checking his pulse, I said: This is Fei Xiaobing disease, combined with cold and heat syndrome.
I told his family: This disease is fatal and cannot be cured.
You just satisfy the sick person's request and provide for him, and there is no need to treat him any more.
Medical theory says: This disease will cause you to go crazy and run around in three days, and you will die in five days.
Then he died as expected.
Shanta's illness was caused by having sex after being angry.
The reason I knew about Shantao's illness was because I took his pulse and found out from the pulse that he had lung-qi heat.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
脉法曰 不平不鼓，形弊 。
此五藏高之远数以经病也，故切之时不平而代。
不平者，血不居其处；代者，时参击并至，乍躁乍大也。
此两络脉绝，故死不治。
所以加寒热者，言其人尸夺。
尸夺者，形弊；形弊者，不当关灸鑱石及饮毒药也。
臣意未往诊时，齐太医先诊山跗病，灸其足少阳脉口，而饮之半夏丸，病者即泄注，腹中虚；又灸其少阴脉，是坏肝刚绝深，如是重损病者气，以故加寒热。
所以後三日而当狂者，肝一络连属结绝乳下阳明，故络绝，开阳明脉，阳明脉伤，即当狂走。
後五日死者，肝与心相去五分，故曰五日尽，尽即死矣。
齐中尉潘满如病少腹痛，臣意诊其脉，曰： 遗积瘕也。
臣意即谓齐太仆臣饶、内史臣繇曰： 中尉不复自止於内，则三十日死。
後二十馀日，溲血死。
病得之酒且内。
所以知潘满如病者，臣意切其脉深小弱，其卒然合合也，是脾气也。
右脉口气至紧小，见瘕气也。
以次相乘，故三十日死。
三阴俱抟者，如法；痘俱抟者，决在急期；一抟一代者，近也。
故其三阴抟，溲血如前止。
阳虚侯相赵章病，召臣意。
众医皆以为寒中，臣意诊其脉曰： 迵风。 迵风者，饮食下嗌而辄出不留。
法曰 五日死 ，而後十日乃死。
病得之酒。
所以知赵章之病者，臣意切其脉，脉来滑，是内风气也。
饮食下嗌而辄出不留者，法五日死，皆为前分界法。
後十日乃死，所以过期者，其人嗜粥，故中藏实，中藏实故过期。
师言曰 安穀者过期，不安穀者不及期 。
translation: 
Pulse theory says: If the pulse is not steady or pulsating, the body is weak.
This is the result of repeated illnesses of the lungs and liver. So when I took the pulse, the pulse shape was unstable and there was a phenomenon of substituted pulse.
An unstable pulse means that the blood energy cannot be stored in the liver; the pulse is sometimes chaotic, sometimes impetuous, and sometimes grand.
This is because the collaterals of the lungs and liver are severed, so it is said to be fatal but cannot be cured.
The reason why I say add cold and heat is because his spirit is weak and his body is like a corpse.
A person whose spirit is scattered and whose body is like a corpse will definitely become weak. For a weak person, acupuncture cannot be used, nor can strong medicines be taken.
Before I diagnosed and treated him, the imperial doctor of Qi State had already diagnosed and treated his disease. He applied moxibustion on his foot Shaoyang pulse and asked him to take Banxia Pills. The patient immediately had diarrhea and became weak in the abdomen. He also applied moxibustion on his Shaoyin pulse, which severely damaged his liver and tendon Yang Qi. This repeatedly damages the patient's vitality, so it is said to be an injury caused by cold and heat.
Therefore, it is said that people will go crazy after three days. This is because the collaterals of the liver cross the breast and are connected to the Yangming meridian. Therefore, the crossing of the collaterals causes the heat evil to invade the Yangming meridian. If the Yangming meridian is injured, the person will run crazy.
Death after five days is because the liver and heart meridians are five minutes apart, and the vitality of the liver is exhausted in five days. When the vitality is exhausted, the person dies.
Pan Manru, the lieutenant of Qi State, suffered from lower abdominal pain. After I checked his pulse, I said: This is the gas left in the abdomen, which has accumulated to form a "mast disease".
I said to Qi's imperial servant named Rao and his internal history officer named You: If the lieutenant cannot prohibit sexual intercourse himself, he will die within thirty days.
After more than twenty days, he urinated blood and died.
His illness was caused by drinking and having sex.
The reason why I knew his illness was because I took his pulse and it was deep and weak. The combination of these three conditions indicates a diseased pulse in the spleen.
Moreover, the pulse at the cunkou of the right hand was tight and small, showing the pulse condition of a lump.
The two qi restrict and influence each other, so you will die within thirty days.
If the three Yin meridians of Taiyin, Shaoyin and Jueyin appear together, it is consistent with the rule of death within thirty days; if the three Yin meridians do not appear at the same time, the time to decide life and death will be shorter; if the intersecting Yin meridians and Dai meridians appear alternately, the time to death is still short.
Therefore, his three Yin meridians appeared at the same time; as mentioned before, he died of urinating blood.
Zhao Zhang, the prime minister of Marquis Yangxu, was ill and summoned me. Many doctors thought it was a cold in the abdomen.
After diagnosing the pulse, I concluded that it was wind disease. The symptom of Xiangfeng is that after swallowing food, it is always vomited out, and the food cannot be retained in the stomach.
According to medical theory: You will die in five days. As a result, he died ten days later.
The disease is caused by alcoholism.
The reason why I knew Zhao Zhang's illness was because when I took his pulse, it was slippery. This is a sign of wind in the body.
If food is swallowed and always spit out, and the stomach cannot hold it, medical science says that one will die within five days. This is the dividing line mentioned above.
He died ten days later. The reason for the expiration date was because he liked to drink porridge, so his stomach was full. His stomach was full, so it exceeded the scheduled time of death.
My teacher said: If the stomach can hold digested food, it will exceed the scheduled time of death. If the stomach cannot hold digested food, it will die before the time limit.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
济北王病，召臣意诊其脉，曰： 风蹶胸满。
即为药酒，尽三石，病已。
得之汗出伏地。
所以知济北王病者，臣意切其脉时，风气也，心脉浊。
病法 过入其阳，阳气尽而阴气入 。
阴气入张，则寒气上而热气下，故胸满。
汗出伏地者，切其脉，气阴。
阴气者，病必入中，出及瀺水也。
齐北宫司空命妇出於病，众医皆以为风入中，病主在肺，刺其足少阳脉。
臣意诊其脉，曰： 病气疝，客於膀胱，难於前後溲，而溺赤。
病见寒气则遗溺，使人腹肿。
出於病得之欲溺不得，因以接内。
所以知出於病者，切其脉大而实，其来难，是蹶阴之动也。
脉来难者，疝气之客於膀胱也。
腹之所以肿者，言蹶阴之络结小腹也。蹶阴有过则脉结动，动则腹肿。
臣意即灸其足蹶阴之脉，左右各一所，即不遗溺而溲清，小腹痛止。
即更为火齐汤以饮之，三日而疝气散，即愈。
故济北王阿母自言足热而懑，臣意告曰： 热蹶也。
则刺其足心各三所，案之无出血，病旋已。
病得之饮酒大醉。
济北王召臣意诊脉诸女子侍者，至女子竖，竖无病。
臣意告永巷长曰： 竖伤脾，不可劳，法当春呕血死。
臣意言王曰： 才人女子竖何能？
王曰： 是好为方，多伎能，为所是案法新，往年市之民所，四百七十万，曹偶四人。
王曰： 得毋有病乎？
臣意对曰： 竖病重，在死法中。 王召视之，其颜色不变，以为不然，不卖诸侯所。
translation: 
The King of Jibei fell ill and called me for diagnosis and treatment. I said: "This is wind syndrome, which makes the chest full."
He made some medicinal wine for him, and after three days of drinking it, he was cured.
His illness was caused by lying on the ground while sweating.
The reason why I know the cause of King Jibei's illness is that when I took the pulse, there was wind evil in the pulse and the heart pulse was heavy and turbid.
According to the pathology, when the disease invades the body surface, the yang energy on the body surface is exhausted, and the yin energy will invade.
When Yin Qi invades and becomes aggressive, the cold Qi will flow up and the hot Qi will flow down, causing a person's chest to feel full.
When a person is lying on the ground while sweating, his pulse will be cold and cold.
For people with a cold and yin pulse, disease pathogens will inevitably invade the inside. During treatment, the yin and coldness should be caused to flow out with sweat.
The wife of Sikong Chu in the Beigong of Qi State was ill. Many doctors believed that it was the wind that invaded the body, mainly the lungs, so they acupunctured the Foot Shaoyang meridian.
After diagnosing the pulse, I said: It is a hernia disease. The hernia affects the bladder, making it difficult to defecate and defecate, and the urine is red in color.
This disease causes enuresis when encountering cold air, causing the person's lower abdomen to swell.
Her illness was caused by having sex after she wanted to urinate but couldn't.
The reason why I knew her illness was because when I took the pulse, the pulse was large and strong, but the pulse was difficult. This was because there was a change in the Jueyin Liver Meridian.
If the pulse is difficult, it is a hernia affecting the bladder.
The reason why the lower abdomen is swollen is because the Jueyin meridians gather in the lower abdomen. If the Jueyin meridians are diseased, the parts connected to it will also change. This change will cause the lower abdomen to swell.
I burned her foot Jueyin liver meridian, burning one point on each side, and she no longer had enuresis and her urine was clear, and the pain in her lower abdomen stopped.
Then she was given gunpowder decoction. After three days, the hernia disappeared and the disease was cured.
Once upon a time, the wet nurse of the King of Jibei said that she had fever in the soles of her feet and felt depressed in her chest. I told her: It was a fever syndrome.
Three acupoints were pricked on each sole of her foot. When the needles were removed, they were used to hold the acupoints to prevent blood from flowing out. The disease was quickly cured.
Her illness was caused by excessive drinking.
The King of Jibei called me to diagnose the illness of his maids. When I diagnosed a woman named Shu, it seemed that she was not sick.
I told Mr. Yongxiang: If you have injured your spleen, you should not work too hard. According to pathology, you will vomit blood and die in the spring.
I asked the King of Jibei what talents this person has?
The King of Jibei said: She likes Fang skills, has many skills, and can create new ideas in old Fang skills. Last year, she bought it from the private sector. Four people like her shared 4.7 million yuan. Asked again: Is she sick?
I replied: She is very ill and will die according to the pathological conditions.
The King of Jibei called her for treatment again, but her expression did not change. He thought what I said was wrong and did not sell her to other princes.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
至春，竖奉剑从王之厕，王去，竖後，王令人召之，即仆於厕，呕血死。
病得之流汗。流汗者，法病内重，毛发而色泽，脉不衰，此亦内之病也。
齐中大夫病齲齿，臣意灸其左大阳明脉，即为苦参汤，日嗽三升，出入五六日，病已。
得之风，及卧开口，食而不嗽。
菑川王美人怀子而不乳，来召臣意。臣意往，饮以莨锽药一撮，以酒饮之，旋乳。
臣意复诊其脉，而脉躁。
躁者有馀病，即饮以消石一齐，出血，血如豆比五六枚。
齐丞相舍人奴从朝入宫，臣意见之食闺门外，望其色有病气。臣意即告宦者平。
平好为脉，学臣意所，臣意即示之舍人奴病，告之曰： 此伤脾气也，当至春鬲塞不通，不能食饮，法至夏泄血死。
宦者平即往告相曰： 君之舍人奴有病，病重，死期有日。
相君曰： 卿何以知之？
曰： 君朝时入宫，君之舍人奴尽食闺门外，平与仓公立，即示平曰，病如是者死。
相即召舍人而谓之曰： 公奴有病不？
舍人曰： 奴无病，身无痛者。
至春果病，至四月，泄血死。
所以知奴病者，脾气周乘五藏，伤部而交，故伤脾之色也，望之杀然黄，察之如死青之兹。
众医不知，以为大蟲，不知伤脾。
所以至春死病者，胃气黄，黄者土气也，土不胜木，故至春死。
所以至夏死者，脉法曰 病重而脉顺清者曰内关 ，内关之病，人不知其所痛，心急然无苦。若加以一病，死中春；一愈顺，及一时。
其所以四月死者，诊其人时愈顺。
愈顺者，人尚肥也。
奴之病得之流汗数出，於火而以出见大风也。
菑川王病，召臣意诊脉，曰： 蹶上为重，头痛身热，使人烦懑。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, she followed the king to the toilet with a sword in hand. The king left, but she stayed behind. The king sent someone to call her, but she fell face forward in the toilet, vomited blood and died.
Her disease is caused by sweating. According to pathological theory, patients who sweat are seriously ill internally. From the outside, their hair and face are shiny, and their pulse is not weak. This is also a disease of Neiguan.
Dr. Qi Guozhong was suffering from dental caries. I burned the Yangming pulse on his left hand and immediately prepared Sophora flavescens decoction for him. I rinsed his mouth with three liters of it every day. After five or six days, the disease was cured.
His illness was caused by bad habits, opening his mouth while sleeping and not rinsing after eating.
The beauty of King Sichuan was pregnant and had dystocia, so she called me for diagnosis and treatment. I took a pinch of hyoscyamus powder and drank it with wine, and she gave birth quickly.
I checked her pulse again and found that it was irritable.
She had a rapid pulse and other ailments, so I gave her a dose of Shishi, and then blood clots came out from her vagina. There were about five or six blood clots as big as beans.
The servant of the prime minister of Qi State followed his master to the palace. I saw him eating outside the boudoir door and saw that his face looked sick. I immediately told the matter to the eunuch named Ping. He liked to diagnose pulse and learned from me.
I used this slave as an example to guide him and told him: This is a sign of damage to the spleen. By next spring, the chest septum will be blocked and he will not be able to eat. According to the pathology, he will bleed to death in the summer.
He went to the prime minister and reported: "Your servant's servant is sick, very ill, and his death is just around the corner."
The prime minister asked: How did you know?
He replied: When the prime minister went to court and entered the palace, he was eating outside his boudoir door. I and Duke Taicang were standing there. Duke Taicang told me that suffering from this disease would lead to death.
The prime minister summoned this retainer and asked him: Is your servant sick?
The retainer said: My slave is not sick and has no pain in his body.
In the spring, he really fell ill. In April, he died of bleeding.
The reason why I knew about his illness was that his temper generally affected the five internal organs. If the spleen was injured, a certain part of the face would show a corresponding disease color. If the spleen is injured, the face looks yellow, but if you look closely, it will be the color of dead grass with green to gray.
Many doctors are unaware of this situation and think that there are parasites in the body or that the spleen has been damaged.
The reason why this person was seriously ill and died in the spring was because his face turned yellow due to spleen disease. Yellow belongs to the earth in the five elements. The spleen earth cannot overcome the liver wood, so he will die in the spring when the liver wood is strong.
The cause of death in the summer, according to the pathology, is Neiguan disease, which is serious but the pulse is normal. For Neiguan disease, the patient will not feel any pain, as if there is no pain at all. If any disease is added to the disease, he will die in the second month of spring.
That's why he died in April. When I checked his pulse, he was in good spirits and nourished his nature.
If he can do this, the person will still be plump and plump, and he can delay it for a while.
His illness was caused by excessive sweating, exposure to fire, and exposure to wind outside.
He summoned me to check his pulse because of King Shichuan's disease. I said: This is a disease with severe symptoms caused by heat evil invading the upper part of the body, causing headaches, body heat, and making people feel depressed.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
臣意即以寒水拊其头，刺足阳明脉，左右各三所，病旋已。
病得之沐发未乾而卧。
诊如前，所以蹶，头热至肩。
齐王黄姬兄黄长卿家有酒召客，召臣意。
诸客坐，未上食。
臣意望见王后弟宋建，告曰： 君有病，往四五日，君要胁痛不可俯仰，又不得小溲。
不亟治，病即入濡肾。
及其未舍五藏，急治之。
病方今客肾濡，此所谓 肾痺 也。 宋建曰： 然，建故有要脊痛。
往四五日，天雨，黄氏诸倩见建家京下方石，即弄之，建亦欲效之，效之不能起，即复置之。
暮，要脊痛，不得溺，至今不愈。
建病得之好持重。
所以知建病者，臣意见其色，太阳色乾，肾部上及界要以下者枯四分所，故以往四五日知其发也。
臣意即为柔汤使服之，十八日所而病愈。
济北王侍者韩女病要背痛，寒热，众医皆以为寒热也。臣意诊脉，曰： 内寒，月事不下也。
即窜以药，旋下，病已。
病得之欲男子而不可得也。
所以知韩女之病者，诊其脉时，切之，肾脉也，啬而不属。
啬而不属者，其来难，坚，故曰月不下。
肝脉弦，出左口，故曰欲男子不可得也。
临菑氾里女子薄吾病甚，众医皆以为寒热笃，当死，不治。
臣意诊其脉，曰： 蛲瘕。
蛲瘕为病，腹大，上肤黄粗，循之戚戚然。
臣意饮以芫华一撮，即出蛲可数升，病已，三十日如故。
病蛲得之於寒湿，寒湿气宛笃不发，化为蟲。
臣意所以知薄吾病者，切其脉，循其尺，其尺索刺粗，而毛美奉发，是蟲气也。
其色泽者，中藏无邪气及重病。
translation: 
I splashed cold water on his head and acupunctured his foot Yangming meridian, three points on the left and right, and he was cured quickly.
His illness was caused by washing his hair and not drying it before going to bed.
My previous diagnosis was correct, so it's called "kei" because the heat is retrograde to the head and shoulders.
Huang Changqing, the brother of King Huang Ji of Qi, held a banquet at home and invited me.
The guests are seated, but the food has not yet been served.
When I saw Song Jian, the Queen's younger brother, looked unusual, I said, "You are sick. Four or five days ago, you had pain in your waist and flanks that made you unable to lean down or urinate."
If it is not treated quickly, the pathogenic factors will infiltrate the kidneys.
Heal it quickly before it stays in the five internal organs.
Now your condition is just that the pathogenic factors have just invaded and infiltrated the kidneys. This is what people call "kidney paralysis". Song Jian said: You are right, I did have pain in my back.
Four or five days ago, it was raining. Huang's sons-in-law came to my house and saw the ashlar stone under the wall of my warehouse. They wanted to lift it. I wanted to follow suit, but when they couldn't lift it, they put it down.
At dusk, I started to feel pain in my lower back and couldn't urinate. It hasn't healed yet.
His illness was caused by his fondness for lifting heavy objects.
The reason why I was able to diagnose and treat his illness was because I saw the color of his face. The temples were dry and the color was dry at the edges of the kidney disease areas on both cheeks. That's why I knew that the disease had occurred four or five days ago.
I made a soft decoction for him and he was cured in eighteen days.
A maid named Han of the King of Jibei suffered from back pain, aversion to cold and fever. Many doctors thought it was a cold-heat disease. After checking her pulse, I said: It is internal cold and blocked menstruation.
I gave her medicine and moxibustion. After a while, her menstruation came and she was cured.
Her illness was caused by wanting a man but not being able to.
The reason why I knew her illness was that when I took her pulse, I found that her kidney pulse had disease energy and her pulse was stagnant and discontinuous.
This kind of pulse appears hard and strong, so menstruation is blocked.
His liver pulse was hard, straight and long, like a bowstring, extending beyond the left hand cun, so the disease was caused by wanting to get a man but not being able to.
A woman named Bo Wu in Linyi was very ill. Many doctors thought it was a cold and fever disease that would lead to death and could not be cured.
After checking my pulse, I said: This is pinhole disease.
This disease causes a person's belly to become enlarged and the skin on the abdomen to be yellow and rough. The patient feels uncomfortable touching the abdomen with his hands.
我用芫花一撮用水送服，随即泄出约有几升的蛲虫，病也就好了。 Thirty days later, my body was the same as before the illness.
Pinworm disease is caused by cold dampness. Too much cold dampness accumulates and cannot be dispersed, turning into insects.
I could know her illness because when I took her pulse and followed the pulse position in her ulnar area, she found that her ulnar pulse was tight and thick, and her hair was withered. This was a symptom of an insect.
Her face was shiny because her internal organs were free of evil spirits and her illness was not severe.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
齐淳于司马病，臣意切其脉，告曰： 当病迵风。
迵风之状，饮食下嗌辄後之。病得之饱食而疾走。
淳于司马曰： 我之王家食马肝，食饱甚，见酒来，即走去，驱疾至舍，即泄数十出。
臣意告曰： 为火齐米汁饮之，七八日而当愈。
时医秦信在旁，臣意去，信谓左右阁都尉曰： 意以淳于司马病为何？
曰： 以为迵风，可治。
信即笑曰： 是不知也。
淳于司马病，法当後九日死。
即後九日不死，其家复召臣意。
臣意往问之，尽如意诊。
臣即为一火齐米汁，使服之，七八日病已。
所以知之者，诊其脉时，切之，尽如法。
其病顺，故不死。
齐中郎破石病，臣意诊其脉，告曰： 肺伤，不治，当後十日丁亥溲血死。
即後十一日，溲血而死。
破石之病，得之堕马僵石上。
所以知破石之病者，切其脉，得肺阴气，其来散，数道至而不一也。
色又乘之。
所以知其堕马者，切之得番阴脉。
番阴脉入虚里，乘肺脉。
肺脉散者，固色变也乘也。
所以不中期死者，师言曰： 病者安穀即过期，不安穀则不及期 。
其人嗜黍，黍主肺，故过期。
所以溲血者，诊脉法曰 病养喜阴处者顺死，养喜阳处者逆死 。
其人喜自静，不躁，又久安坐，伏几而寐，故血下泄。
齐王侍医遂病，自练五石服之。
臣意往过之，遂谓意曰： 不肖有病，幸诊遂也。
臣意即诊之，告曰： 公病中热。
论曰 中热不溲者，不可服五石 。
石之为药精悍，公服之不得数溲，亟勿服。
色将发臃。
translation: 
Sima Chunyu of Qi State was ill. After checking his pulse, I said: You should have Dongfeng disease.
The symptom of Dongfeng disease is that one vomits food after swallowing it. The cause of this disease is that one runs away after eating a full meal.
He replied: I went to the king's house to eat horse liver. I was very full. When I saw the wine being served, I ran away. Later I rode a fast horse home. When I got home, I ejaculated dozens of times.
I told him: Take the fire agent soup with rice juice and you will be cured in seven or eight days.
Doctor Qin Xin was at the side at that time. After I left, he said to the captains in the left and right cabinets: What disease does he think Sima has?
He replied: I think it is cave wind disease and it can be treated.
Qin Xin smiled and said, "This is because I don't know."
According to pathology, Sima's illness would lead to death in nine days.
After nine days without death, the Sima family summoned me again.
After I went there, I asked about the condition, and it was exactly what I diagnosed.
I made fire rice soup for him and let him take it. After seven or eight days, he was cured.
The reason why I knew his illness was because when I diagnosed his pulse, his pulse pattern completely complied with the normal rules.
His condition and pulse were consistent, so he would not die.
A man named Po Shi from Qi State was ill. After checking his pulse, I told him: "The lungs are damaged and cannot be cured. He will urinate blood and die ten days later on Dinghai Day."
Eleven days later, he urinated blood and died.
His illness was caused by falling from a horse onto a hard stone.
The reason why I was able to diagnose his illness was because when I took his pulse, the pulse conditions of the lung and yin pulse were scattered and scattered, as if they came from several channels and were inconsistent.
At the same time, his face turned red, which was a sign that the heart pulse was suppressing the lung pulse.
The reason why I knew he fell off his horse was because he had cut his Yin channel.
The anti-yin meridian enters the large stomach collateral meridian in Xuli, and then invades the pulmonary meridian.
His pulmonary veins had scattered pulses again, and his face turned red when he should have been white. This was a sign that the heart pulse invaded the lungs.
The reason why he did not die as expected is because my teacher said: If the patient can eat and drink water, he will be able to survive the death period. If he cannot eat or drink water, he will die before the death period.
This man liked to blow millet. Millet can replenish lung energy, so he delayed his death.
The reason for his blood in urine is as stated in the theory of pulse diagnosis: If a patient likes to be quiet during recuperation, his qi and blood will decline and die; if he is active, his qi and blood will rise and die.
This person likes to be quiet, not impatient, and can sit peacefully for a long time and sleep on a table, so blood will be excreted from the bottom.
The doctor named Sui of the King of Qi was ill, so he made Five Stone Powder and took it himself.
I went to greet him and he said: I am sick and I hope you can diagnose and treat me.
I immediately diagnosed and treated him and told him: You have a disease caused by heat in your internal organs.
Pathology says that if there is heat in the internal organs and the patient cannot urinate, he cannot take Wu Shi Powder.
The stone medicine is so powerful that your urination frequency will decrease after taking it. Please stop taking it immediately.
Look at your face, you're going to get sores and swelling.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
遂曰： 扁鹊曰 阴石以治阴病，阳石以治阳病 。
夫药石者有阴阳水火之齐，故中热，即为阴石柔齐治之；中寒，即为阳石刚齐治之。
臣意曰： 公所论远矣。
扁鹊虽言若是，然必审诊，起度量，立规矩，称权衡，合色脉表里有馀不足顺逆之法，参其人动静与息相应，乃可以论。
论曰 阳疾处内，阴形应外者，不加悍药及鑱石 。
夫悍药入中，则邪气辟矣，而宛气愈深。
诊法曰 二阴应外，一阳接内者，不可以刚药 。
刚药入则动阳，阴病益衰，阳病益箸，邪气流行，为重困於俞，忿发为疽。
意告之後百馀日，果为疽发乳上，入缺盆，死。
此谓论之大体也，必有经纪。
拙工有一不习，文理阴阳失矣。
齐王故为阳虚侯时，病甚，众医皆以为蹶。
臣意诊脉，以为痺，根在右胁下，大如覆杯，令人喘，逆气不能食。
臣意即以火齐粥且饮，六日气下；即令更服丸药，出入六日，病已。
病得之内。
诊之时不能识其经解，大识其病所在。
臣意尝诊安阳武都里成开方，开方自言以为不病，臣意谓之病苦沓风，三岁四支不能自用，使人瘖，瘖即死。
今闻其四支不能用，瘖而未死也。
病得之数饮酒以见大风气。
所以知成开方病者，诊之，其脉法奇咳言曰 藏气相反者死 。
切之，得肾反肺，法曰 三岁死 也。
安陵阪里公乘项处病，臣意诊脉，曰： 牡疝。
牡疝在鬲下，上连肺。
病得之内。
臣意谓之： 慎毋为劳力事，为劳力事则必呕血死。
处後蹴踘，要蹶寒，汗出多，即呕血。
translation: 
He said: Bian Que once said that Yin stones can cure diseases with Yin deficiency and heat, and Yang stones can cure diseases with Yang deficiency and cold.
The prescriptions of medicinal stones all distinguish between yin and yang, cold and heat, so if the internal organs are hot, use Yin stone softening agent to treat them; if the internal organs are cold, use Yang stone hardening agent.
I said: What you said is wrong.
Although Bian Que said this, it is necessary to make a careful diagnosis, establish standards, establish rules, consider and weigh, and based on the principles of color and pulse, ups and downs, and compliance, and check whether the patient's behavior and breathing are coordinated before drawing a conclusion.
Medical theory says: If there are yang-heat diseases in the body and yin-cold symptoms on the body surface, strong medicines and meteorites cannot be used to treat them.
Because the powerful medicine enters the body, the evil energy will make the heat evil energy more unbridled and accumulate deeper.
The theory of diagnosis says: For diseases where there is more external cold than internal heat, strong medicines cannot be used.
Because strong medicines entering the body will stimulate Yang Qi, the symptoms of Yin deficiency will be more serious, Yang Qi will be stronger, and evil Qi will flow everywhere and gather in acupoints, eventually causing gangrene.
I told him that after more than a hundred days, the gangrene appeared on the breast and spread to the supraclavicular fossa, whereupon he died.
This means that theory only summarizes the general situation and puts forward general principles.
If mediocre doctors fail to learn and understand deeply, they will make mistakes in identifying the yin and yang principles.
When the King of Qi was a Marquis of Yang Deficiency, he was seriously ill, and many doctors thought it was a serious illness.
I diagnosed his pulse and thought it was paralysis. The root of the disease was in the lower part of the right side of the body. It was as big as a clasped cup, making the person breathless, with rising negative Qi and unable to eat.
I gave him gunpowder porridge, and after six days, the Qi went down. Then I asked him to take pills, and after about six days, the disease was cured.
His illness was caused by improper sexual intercourse.
When I diagnosed his pulse, I couldn't identify which meridian had the disease, but I could roughly tell where the disease was.
I once diagnosed and treated a man named Cheng Kaifang in Wudu, Anyang. He said he was not sick, but I said he would suffer from tracheitis. In three years, his limbs would no longer be under his control, and he would become mute and unable to make a sound, and he would die at this time.
Now I heard that he can no longer move his limbs. Although he is mute, he is not dead yet.
His illness was caused by wind evil after drinking alcohol many times.
The reason why I knew about his illness was because when I took his pulse, I found that his pulse condition was in line with the teachings of "Qi Ke Shu": If the internal qi is opposite, death will occur.
Cut his pulse and get the pulse pattern of kidney qi counteracting lung qi. According to this principle, he will die in three years.
A Gongchen named Xiang Chu in Anling Ban was ill. I diagnosed his pulse and said, "This is male hernia."
Hernia is a disease that occurs under the chest septum and connects to the lungs.
It is caused by sexual intemperance.
I said to him: You must not do anything that requires strenuous effort. If you do such things, you will vomit blood and die.
Later, Xiang Chu went to play Cuju. As a result, his waist became cold, he sweated a lot, and he vomited blood.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
臣意复诊之，曰： 当旦日日夕死。
即死。
病得之内。所以知项处病者，切其脉得番阳。番阳入虚里，处旦日死。
一番一络者，牡疝也。
臣意曰：他所诊期决死生及所治已病众多，久颇忘之，不能尽识，不敢以对。
问臣意： 所诊治病，病名多同而诊异，或死或不死，何也？
对曰： 病名多相类，不可知，故古圣人为之脉法，以起度量，立规矩，县权衡，案绳墨，调阴阳，别人之脉各名之，与天地相应，参合於人，故乃别百病以异之，有数者能异之，无数者同之。
然脉法不可胜验，诊疾人以度异之，乃可别同名，命病主在所居。
今臣意所诊者，皆有诊籍。
所以别之者，臣意所受师方適成，师死，以故表籍所诊，期决死生，观所失所得者合脉法，以故至今知之。
问臣意曰： 所期病决死生，或不应期，何故？
对曰： 此皆饮食喜怒不节，或不当饮药，或不当针灸，以故不中期死也。
问臣意： 意方能知病死生，论药用所宜，诸侯王大臣有尝问意者不？
及文王病时，不求意诊治，何故？
对曰： 赵王、胶西王、济南王、吴王皆使人来召臣意，臣意不敢往。
文王病时，臣意家贫，欲为人治病，诚恐吏以除拘臣意也，故移名数，左右不脩家生，出行游国中，问善为方数者事之久矣，见事数师，悉受其要事，尽其方书意，及解论之。
身居阳虚侯国，因事侯。
侯入朝，臣意从之长安，以故得诊安陵项处等病也。
问臣意： 知文王所以得病不起之状？
臣意对曰： 不见文王病，然窃闻文王病喘，头痛，目不明。
臣意心论之，以为非病也。
以为肥而蓄精，身体不得摇，骨肉不相任，故喘，不当医治。
脉法曰 年二十脉气当趋，年三十当疾步，年四十当安坐，年五十当安卧，年六十已上气当大董 。
文王年未满二十，方脉气之趋也而徐之，不应天道四时。
後闻医灸之即笃，此论病之过也。
臣意论之，以为神气争而邪气入，非年少所能复之也，以故死。
所谓气者，当调饮食，择晏日，车步广志，以適筋骨肉血脉，以泻气。
故年二十，是谓 易 。法不当砭灸，砭灸至气逐。
translation: 
I checked his pulse again and said: He will die at dusk the next day.
He will die then.
His disease was caused by sexual intercourse. The reason why I knew his disease was because when I took the pulse, I found the anti-yang pulse. If the anti-yang pulse energy enters the upper part of the body, he will die the next day.
On the one hand, there is an anti-yang pulse, and on the other hand, it is connected to the lungs. This is a male hernia.
Chen Chunyuyi said: There are too many other diseases that can be correctly diagnosed and treated to determine the time of life and death and can be cured. Because I have forgotten it over time and cannot completely remember it, I dare not use these to answer.
Asked again: Many of the diseases you diagnose and treat have the same names, but the diagnosis results are different. Some people are dead and some are still alive. Why is this?
The answer is: In the past, most of the names of diseases were similar and could not be accurately identified. Therefore, the ancient sages established the pulse method, so that people can use these established standards and established rules to weigh and weigh people. According to the rules, measure a person's yin and yang conditions, distinguish people's pulse conditions, and then name them. Pay attention to the correspondence with natural changes and refer to the human body.
However, the pulse method cannot be fully fulfilled. Diagnosis and treatment of patients must be based on the method of dividing pulses to distinguish diseases with the same name and tell the cause of the disease.
Now all the patients I treat have records of their diagnosis and treatment.
The reason why I distinguish diseases in this way is because my teacher died just after I completed my medical studies. Therefore, I recorded the diagnosis and treatment situation and expected the time of life and death to verify the correspondence between my mistakes, correct results and pulse conditions. Because of this, I am now able to distinguish various diseases.
Asked again: When you decide the patient’s time of death or aliveness, sometimes it fails to come true. Why?
The answer is: This is all because the patient eats without restraint, or because he takes medicine inappropriately, or because he uses acupuncture treatment inappropriately, so his death does not correspond to the predicted date.
He also asked: When you were able to diagnose and treat illnesses and discuss the indications of medicines, did the ministers from various princes and dynasties ask you for advice?
When King Wen of Qi fell ill, he didn't ask you to diagnose him. Why?
He replied: The king of Zhao, Jiaoxi, Jinan and Wu all sent people to summon me, but I dare not go.
When King Wen of Qi was ill, my family was poor and I had to treat people to make a living. At that time, I was really worried about being appointed as a doctor by the officials and being restrained. Therefore, I transferred my household registration to the names of relatives, neighbors, etc. I did not take care of the family affairs, but only wanted to practice medicine and travel around, looking for people with excellent medical skills for a long time to ask for help. I visited several teachers, and I learned all their main skills. I also got all their medical prescriptions and medical books, and conducted in-depth analysis and evaluation.
I lived in the feudal state of Marquis Yangxu, so I served him.
When he entered the court, I followed him to Chang'an. Because of this, I was able to treat Xiang Chu and others in Anling.
Ask me: Do you know the reason why King Qi Wen fell ill?
I replied: I have not seen King Qi Wen's condition with my own eyes, but I heard that King Qi Wen suffered from asthma, headaches and poor eyesight.
I presumed that this was not a disease.
Because his body was fat and his energy had accumulated, his body could not move, and his bones could not support his body, so he was asthmatic. This did not require medical treatment.
According to pulse theory: When a person's pulse energy is strong at the age of twenty, he should do running exercises; when he is thirty years old, he should walk briskly; when he is forty years old, he should sit still; when he is fifty years old, he should lie down; when he is over sixty years old, he should keep his vitality deep.
King Wen of Qi was less than twenty years old. His pulse was strong and he should run more, but he was too lazy to move. This was a sign of not following the laws of nature.
Later I heard that some doctors treated him with broilers, and his condition immediately became worse. This was a mistake in analyzing and judging his condition.
According to my analysis, this is a manifestation of the struggle for healthy energy in the body and the intrusion of disease and evil energy into the body. This was not a disease that young people could recover from, so he died.
For this kind of disease, you should adjust your diet, choose sunny weather, drive or walk out, to expand your mind, harmonize your bones, muscles, blood vessels, and relieve the stagnant qi in the body.
Therefore, at the age of twenty, it is the period when people say that the quality of Qi and blood is strong. From a medical point of view, the treatment method of Bianstone should be used. Using this method will cause the Qi and blood to flow irregularly.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
问臣意： 师庆安受之？
闻於齐诸侯不？
对曰： 不知庆所师受。
庆家富，善为医，不肯为人治病，当以此故不闻。
庆又告臣意曰： 慎毋令我子孙知若学我方也。
问臣意： 师庆何见於意而爱意，欲悉教意方？
对曰： 臣意不闻师庆为方善也。
意所以知庆者，意少时好诸方事，臣意试其方，皆多验，精良。
臣意闻菑川唐里公孙光善为古传方，臣意即往谒之。
得见事之，受方化阴阳及传语法，臣意悉受书之。
臣意欲尽受他精方，公孙光曰： 吾方尽矣，不为爱公所。吾身已衰，无所复事之。
是吾年少所受妙方也，悉与公，毋以教人。
臣意曰： 得见事侍公前，悉得禁方，幸甚。
意死不敢妄传人。
居有间，公孙光间处，臣意深论方，见言百世为之精也。
师光喜曰： 公必为国工。
吾有所善者皆疏，同产处临菑，善为方，吾不若，其方甚奇，非世之所闻也。
吾年中时，尝欲受其方，杨中倩不肯，曰 若非其人也 。
胥与公往见之，当知公喜方也。其人亦老矣，其家给富。
时者未往，会庆子男殷来献马，因师光奏马王所，意以故得与殷善。
光又属意於殷曰： 意好数，公必谨遇之，其人圣儒。
即为书以意属阳庆，以故知庆。
臣意事庆谨，以故爱意也。
问臣意曰： 吏民尝有事学意方，及毕尽得意方不？何县里人？
对曰： 临菑人宋邑。邑学，臣意教以五诊，岁馀。
济北王遣太医高期、王禹学，臣意教以经脉高下及奇络结，当论俞所居，及气当上下出入邪逆顺，以宜鑱石，定砭灸处，岁馀。
菑川王时遣太仓马长冯信正方，臣意教以案法逆顺，论药法，定五味及和齐汤法。
高永侯家丞杜信，喜脉，来学，臣意教以上下经脉五诊，二岁馀。
临菑召里唐安来学，臣意教以五诊上下经脉，奇咳，四时应阴阳重，未成，除为齐王侍医。
问臣意： 诊病决死生，能全无失乎？
臣意对曰： 意治病人，必先切其脉，乃治之。
translation: 
Asked again: Who did your teacher Yang Qing study from?
Do the princes of Qi know about him?
He replied: I don’t know who Yang Qing’s teacher is?
Yangqing's family was very wealthy. He was proficient in medical skills, but he refused to treat people. Perhaps because of this, he was not famous.
Yang Qing told me again: Never let my descendants know that you learned medical skills from me.
Asked again: How did your teacher Yang Qing fall in love with you? Why do you want to teach you all the secret medical skills?
He replied: I didn’t know that my teacher Yang Qing’s medical skills were exquisite.
I later learned that it was because when I was young, I liked various medical techniques and prescriptions. I tried his prescriptions, and most of them were effective and exquisite.
I heard that Gongsun Guang of Tangli in Shichuan was good at using ancient medical prescriptions, so I went to see him.
I can be his student and learn from him the medical prescriptions for regulating yin and yang and the medical theories passed down orally, and I will record them all.
I want to learn all his exquisite medical skills. Gongsun Guang said: I have brought out all my secret medical skills. I will not be gracious to you. I am already old and there is nothing left for you to learn.
These are the exquisite medical prescriptions I learned when I was young. I teach them all to you. Don’t teach them to others.
I said: I am very lucky to be able to serve and study in front of you and get all the secret recipes.
Even if I were to die, I would not dare to pass it on to others casually.
After a few days, Gongsun Guang had nothing to do, so I made an in-depth analysis and discussion of medical prescriptions. He thought that my discussion of the medical prescriptions of the past dynasties was wise.
He said happily: You will definitely become a Chinese doctor.
The medical skills I am good at are all neglected. My compatriots who live in Linyi are good at medical skills, but I am not as good as him. His medical prescriptions are very wonderful and cannot be understood by ordinary people.
When I was middle-aged, I wanted to ask him for advice. My friend Yang Zhongqian disagreed and said: You are not the kind of person who can learn medical skills.
I must go with you to see him, and he will know that you love medicine. He is also old, but his family is wealthy.
Before I went there, it happened that Yang Yin, the son of Yang Qing, came to present a horse to the King of Qi, and presented it to the King of Qi through my teacher Gongsun Guangjin. Because of this, I became familiar with Yang Yin.
Gongsun Guang entrusted me to Yang Yin again and said: Chunyu Yi likes medical skills. You must treat him well. He admires the way of saints.
So he wrote a letter recommending me to Yang Qing, so I got to know Yang Qing.
I served Yang Qing respectfully and cautiously, so he liked me.
He also asked: Have any officials or common people ever learned medical skills from you? Has anyone learned all your medical skills? Where are they from?
He replied: Linshan was born in Songyi. He asked me for advice, and I taught him how to look at his face and diagnose diseases. He studied for more than a year.
Gao Ming and Wang Yu, the imperial doctors sent by the King of Jibei, asked me for advice. I taught them the distribution of meridians up and down and the connection positions of abnormal meridians. I often discussed the location of acupoints and the direction of evil and good and reverse when the energy of the meridians circulates. I taught them how to select the acupoints that need meteorite acupuncture treatment for diseases. I learned it for more than a year.
King Sichuan often sent Feng Xin, an officer in charge of horses in the Taicang Department, to ask me to teach him medical skills. I taught him the massage techniques, how to use medicines, and how to determine the nature and taste of medicines and their compatibility to prepare decoctions.
Gao Yonghou's family minister was named Du Xin. He liked diagnosing pulses and came to study. I taught him the distribution of upper and lower meridians and "Five Color Diagnosis", and he studied for more than two years.
Linyi called a man named Tang An to study. I taught him "Five Color Diagnosis", the location of the upper and lower meridians, "Odd Cough Technique", and the principles of the four seasons and the corresponding yin and yang. Without success, he was appointed as the doctor of the King of Qi.
He also asked: Can you make no mistakes when diagnosing and treating people's illnesses and determining their life and death?
He replied: When I treat a patient, I must first feel his pulse and then treat him.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
败逆者不可治，其顺者乃治之。
心不精脉，所期死生视可治，时时失之，臣意不能全也。
太史公曰：女无美恶，居宫见妒；士无贤不肖，入朝见疑。
故扁鹊以其伎见殃，仓公乃匿迹自隐而当刑。
缇萦通尺牍，父得以後宁。
故老子曰 美好者不祥之器 ，岂谓扁鹊等邪？
若仓公者，可谓近之矣。
translation: 
If the pulse condition is weak and inconsistent with the condition, he will not be treated. Only if the pulse condition is consistent with the condition, he will be treated.
If the pulse cannot be carefully detected, errors will often occur in determining the time of death and life and whether the patient can be cured. I cannot be completely free of mistakes.
Tai Shigong said: No matter whether women are beautiful or ugly, they will be jealous when they live in the palace; whether scholars are virtuous or not, they will be jealous when they enter the court.
So Bian Que suffered disaster because of his medical skills, and the Duke of Taicang made himself invisible and was sentenced to punishment.
Tiying wrote to the emperor, and her father finally found peace.
So Lao Tzu said that all beautiful things are unlucky. Where does he say that about people like Bian Que?
People like Taicang Gong are close to what this sentence means.


