Summary uses chunk [2, 5, 6, 10, 11]

Chunk 2: 
original: 
南山之行不足受我辞，斜谷之木不足为我械。
安世遂从狱中上书，告敬声与阳石公主私通，及使人巫祭祠诅上，且上甘泉当驰道埋偶人，祝诅有恶言。
下有司案验贺，穷治所犯，遂父子死狱中，家族。
巫蛊之祸起自朱安世，成于江充，遂及公主、皇后、太子，皆败。
语在《江充》、《戾园传》。
刘屈氂，武帝庶兄中山靖王子也，不知其始所以进。
征和二年春，制诏御史： 故丞相贺倚旧故乘高势而为邪，兴美田以利子弟宾客，不顾元元，无益边谷，货赂上流，朕忍之久矣。
终不自革，乃以边为援，使内郡自省作车，又令耕者自转，以困农烦扰畜者，重马伤枆，武备衰减；下吏妄赋，百姓流亡；又诈为诏书，以奸传朱安世。
狱已正于理。
其以涿郡太守屈氂为左丞相，分丞相长史为两府，以待天下远方之选。
夫亲亲任贤，周、唐之道也。
以澎户二千二百封左丞相为澎侯。
其秋，戾太子为江充所谮，杀充，发兵入丞相府，屈氂挺身逃，亡其印绶。
translation: 
I am about to report the Prime Minister's illegal activities. There are many words in the lawsuit, and I can't finish all the bamboos cut down in Nanshan. I can't use the wood of the inclined valley as shackles to restrain me and prevent me from reporting.
Zhu Anshi then wrote a letter from prison, reporting Gongsun Jingsheng's affair with Princess Yangshi, and instructing wizards to curse the emperor during sacrifices. He also went to Ganquan Palace to bury puppets on Chidao and cursed in very vicious words.
Emperor Wu ordered the relevant authorities to interrogate and examine Gongsun He, and thoroughly investigate the crimes he committed. As a result, the father and son died in prison, and the entire family was wiped out.
The witchcraft disaster started with Zhu Anshi and was completed by Jiang Chong. It eventually involved the princess, queen and prince, who all died due to the failure.
The words are in "The Biography of Jiang Chong" and "The Biography of Liyuan".
Liu Quyou was the son of Liu Sheng, the half-brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Prince Jing of Zhongshan. It is not clear how he started to be promoted.
In the spring of the second year of Zhenghe, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent a letter to the censor in Shao and said: The former prime minister, Gongsun Heyi, relied on his old relationship with me to do evil things by taking advantage of his high position and power to increase fertile farmland for the benefit of his children and retainers, regardless of the suffering of the people. The soldiers guarding the border were short of food and could not think of ways to increase it. He was greedy for money, causing the people to bribe high-ranking officials. I have tolerated these things he did for a long time.
However, he did not repent on his own. Instead, he arbitrarily extended favors to the border counties in order to seek support for himself. He ordered the counties and counties in the interior to reduce costs to build vehicles for the troops garrisoning in the border counties. He also asked the farmers to transport grain to the border counties themselves, which resulted in poverty for the farmers, fatigue of livestock, loss of horses, and weakening of military equipment. The officials below increased taxes at will, causing the people to go bankrupt and exile. He also faked an edict and arrested Zhu Anshi on charges of treachery.
The case of Gongsun He and his son has been correctly handled by the judge.
He appointed Liu Qushou, the governor of Zhuo County, as the left prime minister, divided the prime minister's long history into two mansions, and waited for a wise man to be appointed as the right prime minister.
Keep close relatives and appoint talented people. This is the common method of Tang Yao and Western Zhou Dynasty.
The 2,200 households in Pengdi were granted the title of Penghou to Zuo Prime Minister Liu Quyou.
In the autumn of the second year of Zhenghe, Jiang Chong made false accusations that Prince Ru was involved in the witchcraft case. Prince Ru killed Jiang Chong and led his troops to attack the Prime Minister's Mansion. Liu Quyou escaped and lost the official seal of Prime Minister Zuo.

summary:
summary line 0: Gongsun He, a native of Beidi Commandery, rose from a knight-errant background through military merit. He became favored due to his marriage to Empress Wei's sister and served as a general under Emperor Wu, earning the title of Marquis of Nanao for attacking the Xiongnu. After losing his marquisate for presenting inferior gold, he eventually became Chancellor and was titled Marquis of Ge Yi. He reluctantly accepted the position, weeping and predicting his own danger. His son Gongsun Jingsheng, arrogant and corrupt, embezzled military funds. To atone for his son, Gongsun He captured the knight Zhu Anshi, who retaliated by reporting Gongsun Jingsheng's affair with a princess and accusations of witchcraft against the emperor. Both father and son died in prison, and their clan was exterminated. This incident sparked the witchcraft disaster that ultimately led to the deaths of the princess, empress, and crown prince.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
诸太子宾客，尝出入宫门，皆坐诛。
其随太子发兵，以反法族。
吏士劫略者，皆徙敦煌郡。
以太子在外，始置屯兵长安诸城门。
后二十余日，太子得于湖。
语在《太子传》。
其明年，贰师将军李广利将兵出击匈奴，丞相为祖道，送至渭桥，与广利辞决。
广利曰： 愿君侯早请昌邑王为太子。
如立为帝，君侯长何忧乎？
屈氂许诺。
昌邑王者，贰师将军女弟李夫人子也。
贰师女为屈氂子妻，故共欲立焉。
是时，治巫蛊狱急，内者令郭穰告丞相夫人以丞相数有谴，使巫祠社，祝诅主上，有恶言，及与贰师共祷祠，欲令昌邑王为帝。
有司奏请案验，罪至大逆不道。
有诏载屈氂厨车以徇，要斩东市，妻子枭首华阳街。
贰师将军妻子亦收。
贰师闻之，降匈奴，宗族遂灭。
translation: 
The prince's retainers, all who had ever entered or exited the palace, were beheaded.
Those who followed the prince and launched an army to rebel would have their entire families exterminated in accordance with the laws that punished rebels.
Officials and soldiers who took advantage of the chaos to rob were all exiled to Dunhuang County.
Since the prince was on the run, troops were stationed at the gates of Chang'an City from this time on.
More than twenty days later, the prince was captured in Hu County.
The words are in "The Story of the Prince".
The next year, General Li Guang of the Second Division led his troops to attack the Huns. Prime Minister Liu Quyou hosted a farewell banquet for Li Guangli and sent it to Weiqiao. Liu Quyou and Li Guangli said goodbye.
Li Guangli said: I hope that the king will ask the emperor to make the king of Changyi the crown prince soon.
If King Changyi is established as emperor, what will you worry about in the future?
Liu Quyou agreed to Li Guangli's request.
King Changyi was the son of Li Guangli's sister, Mrs. Li.
Li Guangli's daughter was the wife of Liu Quya's son, so both Li Guangli and Liu Quya wanted to make the king of Changyi the crown prince.
At this time, the investigation of the witchcraft prison was very tight. The insider ordered Guo Chen to report the wife of Prime Minister Liu Qumo because Liu Qumo was reprimanded by the emperor many times, instructing the wizard to curse the emperor when offering sacrifices to the earth god. There were vicious words, and Liu Qumo and Li Guangli prayed and sacrificed together, hoping to make King Changyi the emperor.
The officials in charge reported the matter to Emperor Wu and requested an interrogation and examination. Emperor Wu approved it, and the investigators convicted Liu Quya of treason.
Emperor Wu ordered Liu Quya to be put on a cart carrying food and paraded through the streets, and then beheaded in half in Shushi, Chang'an. Liu Quli's wife was taken to Huayang Street and beheaded in public.
Li Guangli's wife and children were also imprisoned.
When Li Guangli heard the news, he surrendered to the Huns and all his clan were executed.

summary:
summary line 1: Liu Quli, son of Prince Jing of Zhongshan, replaced Gongsun He as Left Chancellor. Emperor Wu issued an edict condemning Gongsun He's corruption and appointed Liu Quli as Marquis of Peng. During the witchcraft rebellion, Crown Prince Ju killed the accuser Jiang Chong and raised troops. Liu Quli led imperial forces against the prince, resulting in a five-day battle with tens of thousands dead. The prince fled but was captured twenty days later. The following year, Liu Quli conspired with General Li Guangli to make the Prince of Changyi crown prince. This conspiracy was discovered, and Liu Quli was executed by waist-cutting, while Li Guangli surrendered to the Xiongnu.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
车千秋，本姓田氏，其先齐诸田徙长陵。
千秋为高寝郎。
会卫太子为江充所谮败，久之，千秋上急变讼太子冤，曰： 子弄父兵，罪当笞；天子之子过误杀人，当何罢哉！
臣尝梦见一白头翁教臣言。
是时，上颇知太子惶恐无他意，乃大感寤，召见千秋。
至前，千秋长八尺余，体貌甚丽，武帝见而说之，谓曰： 父子之间，人所难言也，公独明其不然。
此高庙神灵使公教我，公当遂为吾辅佐。
立拜千秋为大鸿胪。
数月，遂代刘屈氂为丞相，封富民侯。
千秋无他材能术学，又无伐阅功劳，特以一言寤意，旬月取宰相封侯，世未尝有也。
translation: 
Che Qianqiu's original surname was Tian, ​​and his ancestors were the Tian family from Qi State in the Spring and Autumn Period. Later, a branch of the Tian family moved to Changling County.
Che Qianqiu served as the official guarding the tomb of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
When Prince Wei was slandered by Jiang Chong and was defeated, after a long encounter, Che Qianqiu submitted a memorial of serious emergency, defending the crown prince, saying: The son who played tricks on his father's army should be whipped; the emperor's son accidentally killed someone due to negligence, what crime should he be sentenced to?
I once saw an old man with white hair in a dream who told me how to convict someone.
At this time, Emperor Wu already knew clearly that the prince sent troops out of fear and had no intention of rebellion. After reading Che Qianqiu's letter, he was deeply touched and came to his senses, so he summoned Che Qianqiu.
Che Qianqiu came forward to pay homage to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu saw that Che Qianqiu was more than eight feet tall and handsome and liked him very much. He said to him: It is difficult for others to talk about matters between father and son. Only you understand that this is not the case.
This is the god of Gaomiao asking you to enlighten me, so you should be my assistant.
Immediately ordered the car to be sealed for Qianqiu as Da Honglu.
A few months later, he succeeded Liu Quyou as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Fumin.
Che Qianqiu had no other talents or knowledge in Confucian arts, nor any achievements or qualifications. He only made Emperor Wu realize with one sentence that the prince's death was unjust, and he was made prime minister and made a prince within ten months. This was unprecedented in the world.

summary:
summary line 2: Che Qianqiu, originally named Tian, served as guardian of Emperor Gaozu's tomb. After the crown prince's defeat, Che submitted a memorial defending the prince, arguing that a son who mobilizes troops against his father should only be whipped. Emperor Wu, already regretting his actions, was moved and appointed Che as Grand Herald, then Chancellor within months, creating the unprecedented precedent of becoming Chancellor through a single memorial. Though lacking scholarly talents, Che proved competent and kind-hearted. After Emperor Wu's death, Che served under Emperor Zhao alongside General Huo Guang, deferring to Huo's authority while maintaining loyalty. He served as Chancellor for twelve years and was posthumously titled Marquis Ding.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
胜之过被阳，欲斩欣，欣已解衣伏质，仰言曰： 使君颛杀生之柄，威震郡国，令夏斩一欣，不足以增威，不如时有所宽，以明恩贷，令尽死力。
胜之壮其言，贳不诛，因与相结厚。
胜之使还，荐欣，征为右辅都尉，守右扶风。
上数出幸安定、北地，过扶风，宫馆驰道修治，供张办。
武帝嘉之，驻车，拜欣为真，视事十余年。
昭帝时为御史大夫，代车千秋为丞相，封宜春侯。
明年薨，谥曰敬侯。
子谭嗣，以列侯与谋废昌邑王立宣帝，益封三百户。
薨，子咸嗣。
王莽妻即咸女，莽篡位，宜春氏以外戚宠。
自訢传国至玄孙，莽败，乃绝。
杨敞，华阴人也。
translation: 
Baoshengzhi inspected Beiyang and wanted to kill Wang Xin. Wang Xin had undressed and was lying on the chopping board under the guillotine. Gongxin raised his head and said to Baoshengzhi: You have the power of life and death and are powerful in the county. Killing another Wang Xin now will not increase your prestige. It is better to be lenient according to the situation to show your kindness and mercy. Let me try my best to repay you.
Bao Shengzhi admired what he said and forgave him without killing him. Therefore, Bao Shengzhi and Wang Xin became close friends.
After Shengzhi completed his mission and returned to Beijing, he recommended Wang Xin to the emperor. Emperor Wu recruited him to serve as the captain of Youfu, acting as Youfu Feng.
Emperor Wu visited Saitong and Jiidi many times. When he passed through Diehuang, Tanqiu sent people to clean the palace, make the roads smooth, and set up curtains and curtains for comfort.
Emperor Wu was very happy, commended Wang Xin, stopped the car, and changed Wang Xin's official position to a regular one, and he ruled for more than ten years.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wang Xin served as the imperial censor, succeeded Che Qianqiu as prime minister, and was named Marquis of Yichun.
He died the next year and was named Jinghou.
Wang Xin's son Wang Tan inherited his father's title, and as a prince participated in the plan to abolish the king of Changyi, support Emperor Xuan, and increase the number of 300 households in the land.
After Wang Tan died, his son Wang Xian inherited his title.
Yucha's wife was Wang Sheng's daughter. After Wang Chai usurped the throne, Wang Sheng's family respected her because she was a relative.
Starting from Wang Xin, the feudal state was passed down to Great-grandson, and was discontinued after Wang Mang's defeat.
Yang Chang is from Huayin County.

summary:
summary line 3: Wang Xin of Jinan Commandery rose from minor official to magistrate. When Imperial Censor Bao Shengzhi investigated and prepared to execute him, Wang Xin pleaded for mercy, arguing that killing him would not increase Shengzhi's prestige. Impressed, Shengzhi spared him and later recommended him. Wang Xin served Emperor Wu competently, becoming You Fufeng. Under Emperor Zhao, he succeeded Che Qianqiu as Chancellor and was titled Marquis of Yichun, dying the following year.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
给事大将军莫府，为军司马，霍光爱厚之，稍迁至大司农。
元凤中，稻田使者燕仓知上官桀等反谋，以告敞。
敞素谨累事，不敢言，乃移病卧。
以告谏大夫杜延年，延年以闻。
苍、延年皆封，敞以九卿不辄言，故不得侯。
后迁御史大夫，代王为丞相，封安平侯。
明年，昭帝崩。
昌邑王征即位，淫乱，大将军光与车骑将军张安世谋欲废王更立。
议既定，使大司农田延年报敞。
敞惊惧，不知所言，汗出洽背，徒唯唯而已。
延年起至更衣，敞夫人遽从东箱谓敞曰： 此国大事，今大将军议已定，使九卿来报君侯。
君侯不疾应，与大将军同心，犹与无决，先事诛矣。
延年从更衣还，敞、夫人与延年参语许诺，请奉大将军教令，遂共废昌邑王，立宣帝。
宣帝即位月余，敞薨，谥曰敬侯。
子忠嗣，以敞居位定策安宗庙，益封三千五百户。
忠弟惲，字子幼，以忠任为郎，补常侍骑，惲母，司马迁女也。
惲始读外祖《太史公记》，颇为《春秋》。
translation: 
When he served in the general Tingguang shogunate, he was appointed military commander. Huo Guang liked and treated him favorably, and he was gradually promoted to chief agricultural officer.
During the Wuhuang period of Guitong, the rice field envoy You Dong learned of the rebellion conspiracy of Emperor Jie and others and informed Yang Chang of the matter.
Yang Chang was always cautious and fearful, and did not dare to report to Emperor Zhao, so he wrote a letter claiming to be ill and emigrated.
Yan Cang told the news to Du Yannian, the admonishing doctor, and Du Yannian reported it to Emperor Zhao.
Yan Cang and Du Yannian were both granted the title of marquis for their meritorious service. As the ninth minister, Yang Chang heard the news of the rebellion but failed to report it in time, so he was not granted the title of marquis.
Later, he was promoted to imperial censor, succeeded Wang Xin as prime minister, and was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
In the second year, Emperor Zhao died.
The king of Changyi came to Beijing to take the throne after being summoned by the ministers. He was promiscuous and immoral. The general Huo Guang conspired with the chariot general Zhang Anshi to depose the king of Luyi and reestablish the emperor.
It was agreed upon that Da Si’s farmland would be extended to inform Yang Chang.
Yang Chang was very frightened after hearing this. He didn't know what to say. His back was wet with sweat and he could only make a "weiwei" sound.
Tian Yannian got up and went to the dressing room to change clothes. Yang Chang's wife hurriedly came out of the side room and said to Yang Chang: This is a national event. Now the general's plan has been decided. I asked Dasi Nanyang Yannian to tell you.
If you don't agree quickly and work together with the general, if you hesitate, you will be killed first.
When Tian Yannian came back from the dressing room, both Yang Chang and his wife and Tian Yannian agreed with the general's decision and asked to obey the general's order. So the court ministers deposed King Changyi and established Emperor Xuan.
More than a month after Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Yang Chang died, and Mi was named Jinghou.
His son Yang Zhong inherited the title. Because Yang Chang was the prime minister, he participated in the formulation of the strategy of deposing the king of Changyi and replacing him with Emperor Xuan. He made great contributions to the stabilization of the Moshi ancestral temple and the increase of 3,500 households in the city.
Yang Zhong's younger brother Yang Yun, named Ziyou, relied on Yang Zhong's official position and was appointed Lang Guan according to the Han Dynasty's son appointment system, filling the post of Chang Shiqi. Yang Yun's mother was Sima Qian's daughter.
Yang Yun first read "Tai Shi Gong Ji" written by his grandfather, and was also familiar with "Spring and Autumn".

summary:
summary line 4: Yang Chang of Huayin Commandery served in General Huo Guang's staff, rising to Minister of Agriculture. Learning of a rebellion conspiracy, Yang Chang, being cautious, feigned illness rather than reporting it. Another official reported the matter and received a marquisate, while Yang Chang was denied this honor. He later became Imperial Censor and succeeded Wang Xin as Chancellor, titled Marquis of Anping. After Emperor Zhao's death, when Huo Guang planned to depose the immoral King of Changyi, Yang Chang initially hesitated but was persuaded by his wife to cooperate. He died shortly after Emperor Xuan's accession.

