Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 6, 9, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
郎顗襄楷
郎顗字雅光，北海安丘人也。
父宗，字仲绥，学《京氏易》，善风角、星算、六日七分，能望气占候吉凶，常卖卜自奉。
安帝征之，对策为诸儒表，后拜吴令。
时卒有暴风，宗占知京师当有大火，记识时日，遣人参候，果如其言。
诸公闻而表上，以博士征之。
宗耻以占验见知，闻征书到，夜县印绶于县廷而遁去，遂终身不仕。
顗少传父业，兼明经典，隐居海畔，延致学徒常数百人。
昼研精义，夜占象度，勤心锐思，朝夕无倦。
州郡辟召，举有道、方正，不就。
顺帝时，灾异屡见，阳嘉二年正月，公正征，顗乃诣阙拜章曰：臣闻天垂妖象，地见灾符，所以谴告人主，责躬修德，使正机平衡，流化兴政也。
《易内传》曰： 凡灾异所生，各以其政。
变之则除，消之亦除。
伏惟陛下躬日吴之听，温三省之勤，思过念咎，务消祇悔。
方今时俗奢佚，浅恩薄义。
夫救奢必于俭约，拯薄无若敦厚，安上理人，莫善于礼。
修礼遵约，盖惟上兴，革文变薄，事不在下。
故《周南》之德，《关雎》政本。
本立道生，风行草从，澄其源者流清，混其本者末浊。
天地之道，其犹鼓，以虚为德，自近及远者也。
伏见往年以来，园陵数灾，炎光炽猛，惊动神灵。
《易天人应》曰： 君子不思遵利，兹谓无泽，厥灾孽火烧其宫。
又曰： 君高台府，犯阴侵阳，厥灾火。
又曰： 上不俭，下不节，炎火并作烧君室。
自顷缮理西苍，修复太学，宫殿官府，多所构饰。
昔盘庚迁殷，去奢即俭，夏后卑室，尽力致美。
又鲁人为长府，闵子骞曰： 仍旧贯，何必改作。
臣愚以为诸所缮修，事可省减，禀恤贫人，赈赡孤寡，此天之意也，人之庆也，仁之本也，俭之要也。
焉有应天养人，为仁为俭，而不降福者哉？
translation: 
◆The Legend of Lang Yi
Lang Yi, courtesy name Yaguang, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
His father, Langzong, whose courtesy name was Zhongsui, studied "Jing's Book of Changes" and was good at wind angle, astrology, and six-day and seven-minute calculations. He could tell the weather about good and bad luck, and he often sold divination to support himself.
Emperor An summoned him, and his countermeasures set an example for other Confucian scholars. Later, he became the magistrate of Wu County.
At this time, there was a sudden storm, and Lang Zong learned from divination that there was going to be a fire in the capital. He noted the time and sent someone to inquire, and it was indeed as he said.
After hearing this, all the princes went up to the table to hear the news, and the imperial court summoned him with a doctor.
Lang Zong thought it was shameful to be known for his fortune-telling. When he heard that the summons had arrived, he hung his seal and ribbon in the county court at night and fled, so he never served as an official for the rest of his life.
When he was young, Lang Yi passed on his father's studies and learned the classics. He lived in seclusion by the sea and often taught hundreds of disciples.
During the day, he studies the essence and at night, he divines the images. He meditates diligently and is tireless in the morning and evening.
The prefectures and counties appointed him to be a man of integrity and uprightness, but he did not go to the post.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, disasters occurred many times. In the first month of the second year of Yangjia, when public transport was called for, Lang Yi went to the court to pay homage and wrote a memorial: I heard that monsters descended from the sky and disaster talismans appeared on the earth, in order to condemn the masters, to punish the people, to cultivate virtues, to balance the good opportunities, and to promote the government.
"Yi Neizhuan" says: All disasters and disasters are caused by different things, and everyone has their own governance.
Change it and eliminate it, eliminate it and eliminate it.
Thinking of His Majesty personally attending to the affairs of state every day, I should review Zengzi's three self-examinations, reflect on my faults and blame, and make sure to eliminate my great regrets.
The current custom is one of luxury and licentiousness, and shallow kindness and righteousness.
To save extravagance, one must be frugal. To save the poor, it is better to be generous. To appease the superiors and straighten the people, there is nothing better than using propriety.
When it comes to cultivating etiquette and abiding by promises, only the top takes the lead; changing the rules does not matter to the bottom.
Therefore, the virtues of "Zhou Nan" and "Guan Sui" are the foundation of politics.
The root is rooted in the Tao, and when the wind moves, the grass will follow. If the source of water is clarified, the running water will be clear. If the root is muddied, the end will be turbid.
The way of heaven and earth is similar to that of drums and drums. It takes emptiness as its virtue and moves from near to far.
I have seen that in the past few years, disasters have occurred in the garden and mausoleum several times, and the fire has been very strong, alarming the gods.
"Yi Tianren Ying" said: A gentleman does not think about following the interests, so he is said to be without benefits, and his palace will be burned down by evil.
He also said: In Jun Gaotai Mansion, Yin invades Yang and causes fire.
He also said: If you are not frugal at the top and unscrupulous at the bottom, the fire will burn down your house.
Recently, Xiyuan has been managed, the Imperial College has been restored, many palaces and government buildings have been built.
In the past, Pan Geng moved to Yin to avoid luxury, that is, to be frugal. After Xia, he humbled his family and tried his best to achieve beauty.
Also, when the people of Lu were the governor, Min Ziqian said: "It's still the same, so why change it?"
I think these repairs can be done with frugality, and the warehouses can be used to help the poor, orphans and widows. This is God's will, people's happiness, the foundation of benevolence, and the essence of frugality.
How can anyone support people according to nature, be benevolent and frugal, and not bless them?
summary:
Lang Yi, courtesy name Yaguang, was born in Anqiu, Beihai. His father, Lang Zong, studied the "Jing's Book of Changes," excelled in divination and astrology, and supported himself by fortune-telling. Emperor An summoned him, and his responses set a standard for Confucian scholars. He later became magistrate of Wu County, where he accurately predicted a fire in the capital through divination. The imperial court summoned him with a doctor's title, but Lang Zong, ashamed of being known for fortune-telling, fled by night, hanging his seal in the county court, and never served as an official again. Lang Yi inherited his father's studies, lived in seclusion by the sea, and taught hundreds of disciples. During Emperor Shun's reign, disasters occurred frequently. In the first month of the second year of Yangjia, Lang Yi was summoned to court. He submitted a memorial attributing disasters to the ruler's governance, urging the emperor to practice frugality, reflect on faults, and reform policies. He warned that luxury, excessive construction, and harsh punishments caused celestial anomalies like prolonged cloudiness, cold spells, and fires. He cited classical texts to argue that the emperor should reduce palace expenditures, release palace maids to restore harmony, and dismiss incompetent officials. He also predicted earthquakes, floods, and invasions if reforms were not enacted.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
王者随天，譬犹自春徂夏，改青服绛者也。
自文帝省刑，适三百年，而轻微之禁，渐已殷积。
王者之法，譬犹江河，当使易避而难犯也。
故《易》曰： 易则易知，简则易从，易简而天下之理得矣。
今去奢即俭，以先天下，改易名号，随事称谓。
《易》曰： 君子之道，或出或处，同归殊涂，一致百虑。
是知变常而善，可以除灾，变常而恶，必致于异。
今年仲竟，来年入季，仲终季始，历运变改，故可改元，所以顺天道也。
臣顗愚蔽，不足以答圣问。
顗又上书荐黄琼、李固，并陈消灾之术曰：臣前对七事，要政急务，宜于今者，所当施用。
诚知愚浅，不合圣听，人贱言废，当受诛罚，征营惶怖，靡知厝身。臣闻刳舟剡楫，将欲济江海也；聘贤选佐，将以安天下也。
昔唐尧在上，群龙为用，文、武创德，周、召作辅，是以能建天地之功，增日月之耀者也。
《诗》云： 赫赫王命，仲山甫将之。邦国若否，仲山甫明之。
宣王是赖，以致雍熙。
陛下践祚以来，勤心庶政，而三九之位，未见其人，是以灾害屡臻，四国未宁。
臣考之国典，验之闻见，莫不以得贤为功，失士为败。
且贤者出处，翔而后集，爵以德进，则其情不苟，然后使君子耻贫贱而乐富贵矣。
若有德不报，有言不酬，来无所乐，进无所趋，则皆怀归薮泽，修其故志矣。
夫求贤者，上以承天，下以为人。
不用之，则逆天统，违人望。
逆天统则灾眚降，违人望则化不行。
灾眚降则下呼嗟，化不行则君道亏。
四始之缺，五际之厄，其咎由此。
岂可不刚健笃实，矜矜栗栗，以守天功盛德大业乎？臣伏见光禄大夫江夏黄琼，耽道乐术，清亮自然，被褐怀宝，含味经籍，又果于从政，明达变复。
translation: 
The king follows the will of God, which is like changing his color from blue to red from spring to summer.
It has been exactly three hundred years since Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty reduced corporal punishment, and minor prohibitions have gradually accumulated.
The king's law is like a river, which should be easy for people to avoid but difficult to violate.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says: If it is easy, it is easy to know; if it is simple, it is easy to follow; if it is simple, it is easy to understand the principles of the world.
Now let go of extravagance, start being frugal, be the first in the world, change your name, and use whatever you call me.
"The Book of Changes" says: "The way of a gentleman may come from another place, return to the same place by different paths, and have the same purpose."
This means knowing that changing from normal to good can eliminate disasters, and changing from normal to evil will inevitably lead to disaster.
This year is in the middle of the year, next year the season is in the middle, and the season is in the middle of the end. The calendar fortune has changed, so the yuan can be changed. This is the way of heaven.
I am too ignorant to answer the sage question.
Lang Yi also wrote a letter recommending Huang Qiong and Li Gu, and stated the methods to eliminate disasters: The seven things I answered correctly before are all urgent political matters, meet the current needs, and should be implemented.
Indeed, I knew that I had a foolish and shallow view, which was not in line with the emperor's holy hearing. I was a mean person and should be punished for my bad words. I was very frightened and did not know where to put my body. I heard that the purpose of carving boats and oars is to cross the rivers and seas, and to recruit talents and assistants to stabilize the world.
In ancient times, when Yao of the Tang Dynasty was in power, his ministers worked for him and cultivated virtues in civil and military affairs. The Duke of Zhou and Duke of Zhao served as assistants. Therefore, they were able to build the heaven and earth and increase the brilliance of the sun and the moon.
"The Book of Songs" says: Zhongshan is the one who will lead the illustrious king's order. If the country is not good, Zhongshan will be the one who makes it clear.
King Xuan of Zhou relied on Zhongshanfu, which led to a harmonious situation.
Since your Majesty came to the throne, you have been diligent in the administration of common people, but the positions of the Three Dukes and Nine Ministers have not been seen. Therefore, disasters have occurred one after another, and the countries in the four directions have no peace.
I have examined the canons of the country and verified what I have seen and heard. It is found that if you gain wise men, you will achieve meritorious service, and if you lose wise men, you will fail.
Moreover, whether a wise man comes out or not, he flies like a bird and then gathers, and he is given a title according to virtue, so he is unscrupulous, and then makes the gentleman feel ashamed of poverty and lowliness, but takes pleasure in wealth.
If one's virtues are not rewarded, if one's words are not rewarded, if one comes and there is no reward, and if one enters and there is no hope, then all the wise men will return to the swamp and cultivate their old ambitions.
Those who seek virtue should adhere to God's will at the top, and obey the human heart at the bottom.
Not using it would be against heaven's order and contrary to human expectations.
If it goes against the order of heaven, disaster will happen; if it goes against the wishes of others, it will be ruined.
When a disaster comes, the people below will cry out with resentment. If the weather is not good enough, the ruler will suffer losses.
The "Four Beginnings" in the "Book of Songs" were depleted and the "Five Worlds" were devastated. This is where the fault lies.
Isn’t it possible to be strong and solid, cautious and cautious, and to abide by the great cause of heavenly merit and virtue? The ministers saw Jiangxia Huangqiong, the Guanglu doctor, who was deeply in love with Taoism. He advocated purity and naturalness. He was dressed in coarse cloth and carried precious jade. He had a deep understanding of the classics, was bold in politics, and knew the art of eliminating variation and recovery.
summary:
In a dialogue with the minister, Lang Yi elaborated on seven urgent matters: cemetery fires due to extravagance, hypocritical officials causing yin-yang imbalances, impending droughts and floods, the need to establish an heir, white rainbow portending coups, and the necessity to change the calendar and official titles. He recommended recruiting virtuous men like Huang Qiong and Li Gu to stabilize the state. Despite his detailed warnings, Lang Yi resigned from his appointed doctor position and returned home. His predictions of earthquakes, droughts, and barbarian invasions later proved accurate. He was eventually killed by a local knight-errant, Sun Li.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
陛下宜审详明堂布政之务，然后妖异可消，五纬顺序矣。四事：《易传》曰： 阳无德则旱，阴僭阳亦旱。
阳无德者，人君恩泽不施于人也。
阴僭阳者，禄去公室，臣下专权也。
自冬涉春，讫无嘉泽，数有西风，反逆时节。
朝廷劳心，广为祷祈，荐祭山川，暴龙移市。
臣闻皇天感物，不为伪动，灾变应人，要在责已。
若令雨可请降，水可攘止，则岁无隔并，太平可待。
然而灾害不息者，患不在此也。
立春以来，未见朝廷赏录有功，表显有德，存问孤寡，赈恤贫弱，而但见洛阳都官奔车东西，收系纤介，牢狱充盈。
臣闻恭陵火处，比有光曜，明此天灾，非人之咎。
丁丑大风，掩蔽天地。
风者号令，天之威怒，皆所以感悟人君忠厚之戒。
若臣言不用，朝政不改者，立夏之后乃有澍雨，于今之际未可望也。
若政变于朝而天不雨，则臣为诬上，愚不知量，分当鼎镬。
书奏，特诏拜郎中，辞病不就，即去归家。
至四月京师地震，遂陷。
其夏大旱。
秋，鲜卑入马邑城，破代郡兵。
明年，西羌寇陇右。
皆略如顗言。
后复公车征，不行。
同县孙礼者，积恶凶暴，好游侠，与其同里人常慕顗名德，欲与亲善。
顗不顾，以此结怨，遂为礼所杀。
襄楷字公矩，平原隰阴人也。
好学博古，善天文阴阳之术。
桓帝时，宦官专朝，政刑暴滥，又比失皇子，灾异尤数。
延熹九年，楷自家诣阙上疏曰：臣闻皇天不言，以文象设教。
translation: 
Your Majesty should review the situation of the Mingtang administration in detail, and then the evil will be eliminated, and the five latitudes will be able to operate in order. The fourth thing: "Yi Zhuan" says: If Yang has no virtue, there will be drought, and if Yin submerges Yang, there will be drought.
Yang has no virtue, which means that the king's kindness is not extended to the people.
The yin subsides and the yang lurks, and the salary goes to the public office, which means that the subordinates have exclusive power.
From winter to spring, there has been no Jiaze, and there have been several westerly winds, which violates the seasonal regulations.
The court worked hard, prayed widely, paid homage to the mountains and rivers, and the dragon moved to the city.
I have heard that the emperor and heaven move all things, and do not act in vain. Catastrophes respond to people. The important thing is to blame yourself.
If the rain can fall and the water can stop, then the years will not be separated and the year of peace can wait and come.
However, the disaster does not stop, it can be seen that the problem is not here.
Since the beginning of spring, I have not seen the imperial court appreciating meritorious people, commending virtuous people, caring for orphans and widows, or providing relief to the poor and weak. I have only seen Luoyang officials rushing from east to west, collecting minor crimes, and filling the prisons with prisoners.
I heard that the fire in Gongling continued to shine, indicating that it was a natural disaster and not a human fault.
Ding Chou sent out a strong wind, covering the heaven and earth.
The wind is a command, and the expression of heaven's majesty and anger is used to inspire people to be loyal and honest.
Another month without rain will harm Sumai. If there is no harvest, then three or four out of ten people will be hungry. Your Majesty should indeed be favored widely in response to your heavenly merit. If the minister's words are not adopted and the government is not reformed, there will be some rain after the beginning of summer, and there will be no hope now.
If the government is reformed but it still does not rain, then the minister is falsely accused, stupid and ignorant of his weight, and should be punished.
The book was sent up, and he was specially ordered to be appointed as a doctor. Lang Yi resigned from his illness and refused to take up his post, so he went home immediately.
In April, there was an earthquake in the capital and it fell.
There was a severe drought this summer.
In autumn, the Xianbei people invaded Mayi City and defeated the troops of Dai County.
The next year, the Western Qiang invaded Longyou.
It's all roughly as Lang Yi said.
Later, the court officials summoned him in a bus, but he refused to come out.
Sun Li, a native of the same county, was evil and violent, and liked knight-errants. People in his hometown often envied Lang Yi's reputation and wanted to be friendly with him.
Lang Yi ignored them and became enemies, so Lang Yi was killed by Sun Li.
◆Xiangkai Chuan Xiangkai was named Gongju and was from Xiyin, Pingyuan.
He is good at learning, has extensive knowledge of ancient books, and knows the art of astronomy and yin and yang.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the eunuchs monopolized the affairs of the state, and brutal punishments were rampant. Princes also died one after another, and disasters were particularly common.
In the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, Xiangkai left home and went to the court to preach: I heard that the emperor did not speak, so he used astronomical pictograms to teach.
summary:
Xiang Kai, courtesy name Gongju, was from Xiyin, Pingyuan. During Emperor Huan's reign, eunuchs dominated, punishments were brutal, and disasters were frequent. In the ninth year of Yanxi, Xiang Kai submitted a memorial citing astronomical anomalies—Mars and Venus invading key stars—as warnings against harsh rule and unjust executions. He criticized the killing of loyal officials like Li Yun and Du Zhong, the neglect of heirs due to excessive palace maids, and the decline of education. He noted omens like a dead dragon and falling stars, linking them to past dynastic collapses. He urged the emperor to reform punishments, release prisoners, and promote virtue.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
楷不正辞理，指陈要务，而析言破律，违背经艺，假借星宿，伪托神灵，造合私意，诬上罔事。请下司隶，正楷罪法，收送洛阳狱。
帝以楷言虽激切，然皆天文恒象之数，故不诛，犹司寇论刑。
初，顺帝时，琅邪宫崇诣阙，上其师干吉于曲阳泉水上所得神书百七十卷，皆缥白素朱介青首朱目，号《太平清领书》。
其言以阴阳五行为家，而多巫觋杂语。
有司奏崇所上妖妄不经，乃收臧之。
后张角颇有其书焉。
及灵帝即位，以楷书为然。
太傅陈蕃举方正，不就。
乡里宗之，每太守至，辄致礼清。
中平中，与荀爽、郑玄俱以博士征，不至，卒于家。
translation: 
Xiangkai is not correct in his rhetoric, pointing out the important affairs of the country, but breaking the law with analysis, violating the classics and art, using the stars and gods, falsely entrusting gods, creating personal agendas, and slandering the Holy One for neglecting state affairs. Please hand it over to Sili, and he will be imprisoned in Luoyang Prison for the crime of Zhengkai.
The emperor believed that although Xiangkai's words were passionate, they were all astronomical and constant phenomena, so he was not killed, but was handed over to the commander of the army for deliberation.
At the beginning, during the reign of Emperor Shun, Langfu Palace Chong came to the court and presented one hundred and seventy volumes of sacred books that his master Ganji had obtained in the Quyang Spring. They were all written in white, with Zhu Jieqing's head and eyes, and they were called "Taiping Qingling Shu".
His language is based on yin and yang and the five elements, and is mostly based on shamanism and miscellaneous language.
One official reported that the book written by Gong Chong was monstrous and unreliable, so he kept it.
Later Zhang Jiao had his own writings.
When Emperor Ling came to the throne, he believed that Xiangkai's book was correct.
Grand Tutor Chen Fan appointed him as Founder, but he did not take up the post.
Whenever the governor of the village comes to take office, he always greets him with courtesy.
During the Zhongping period, both Xun Shuang and Zheng Xuan were recruited as doctors, but they did not go and died at home.
summary:
Emperor Huan initially ignored Xiang Kai's reports. When summoned, Xiang Kai condemned eunuchs, stating their proliferation caused the lack of an heir. The minister of corrections accused him of slander, but the emperor spared him, citing the astronomical basis of his words. Xiang Kai later refused official posts, including one offered by Grand Tutor Chen Fan, and died at home during the Zhongping period.

