Summary uses chunk [0]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
田叔者，赵陉城人也。其先，齐田氏苗裔也。
叔喜剑，学黄老术於乐巨公所。叔为人刻廉自喜，喜游诸公。
赵人举之赵相赵午，午言之赵王张敖所，赵王以为郎中。
数岁，切直廉平，赵王贤之，未及迁。
会陈豨反代，汉七年，高祖往诛之，过赵，赵王张敖自持案进食，礼恭甚，高祖箕踞骂之。
是时赵相赵午等数十人皆怒，谓赵王曰： 王事上礼备矣，今遇王如是，臣等请为乱。
赵王齧指出血，曰： 先人失国，微陛下，臣等当蟲出。
公等柰何言若是！毋复出口矣！ 於是贯高等曰： 王长者，不倍德。
卒私相与谋弑上。
会事发觉，汉下诏捕赵王及群臣反者。
於是赵午等皆自杀，唯贯高就系。
是时汉下诏书： 赵有敢随王者罪三族。
唯孟舒、田叔等十馀人赭衣自髡钳，称王家奴，随赵王敖至长安。
贯高事明白，赵王敖得出，废为宣平侯，乃进言田叔等十馀人。
上尽召见，与语，汉廷臣毋能出其右者，上说，尽拜为郡守、诸侯相。
叔为汉中守十馀年，会高后崩，诸吕作乱，大臣诛之，立孝文帝。
孝文帝既立，召田叔问之曰： 公知天下长者乎？
对曰： 臣何足以知之！
上曰： 公，长者也，宜知之。
叔顿首曰： 故云中守孟舒，长者也。
是时孟舒坐虏大入塞盗劫，云中尤甚，免。
上曰： 先帝置孟舒云中十馀年矣，虏曾一人，孟舒不能坚守，毋故士卒战死者数百人。
长者固杀人乎？
公何以言孟舒为长者也？
叔叩头对曰： 是乃孟舒所以为长者也。
夫贯高等谋反，上下明诏，赵有敢随张王，罪三族。
然孟舒自髡钳，随张王敖之所在，欲以身死之，岂自知为云中守哉！
汉与楚相距，士卒罢敝。
匈奴冒顿新服北夷，来为边害，孟舒知士卒罢敝，不忍出言，士争临城死敌，如子为父，弟为兄，以故死者数百人。
孟舒岂故驱战之哉！
是乃孟舒所以为长者也。
於是上曰： 贤哉孟舒！
复召孟舒以为云中守。
後数岁，叔坐法失官。
梁孝王使人杀故吴相袁盎，景帝召田叔案梁，具得其事，还报。
景帝曰： 梁有之乎？
叔对曰： 死罪！
有之。
上曰： 其事安在？
田叔曰： 上毋以梁事为也。
上曰： 何也？ 曰： 今梁王不伏诛，是汉法不行也；如其伏法，而太后食不甘味，卧不安席，此忧在陛下也。
景帝大贤之，以为鲁相。
鲁相初到，民自言相，讼王取其财物百馀人。
田叔取其渠率二十人，各笞五十，馀各搏二十，怒之曰： 王非若主邪？
何自敢言若主！
translation: 
Uncle Tian is a native of Xingcheng, Zhao State, and his ancestors are descendants of the Tian family of Qi State.
Uncle Tian liked swordsmanship and once studied Huang and Lao's theories at Le Jugong's residence.
Uncle Tian is a strict and honest man, and he takes great pride in this. I like to hang out with those people who are highly respected. The people of Zhao recommended him to Zhao Wu, the prime minister, and Zhao Wu praised him to King Zhao Zhang Ao, who appointed him as a doctor.
After serving for several years, he has always been upright, honest and fair. Although King Zhao appreciated him, he did not have time to promote him.
It happened that Chen Xi was rebelling in Dai. In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu went to punish him. When passing by Zhao State, King Zhao Zhang Ao personally brought a plate of food to offer food. The etiquette was very respectful, but Emperor Gaozu of Han arrogantly sat with his legs stretched out and cursed him.
At that time, Zhao Prime Minister Zhao Wu and dozens of others were very angry, and said to Zhao Wang Zhang Ao: You served the emperor with complete etiquette, but now you are treated like this. We ask for rebellion.
King Zhao bit his finger and it bled, and said: My father has lost his country. Without Your Majesty, our bodies will be infested with maggots and no one will collect them after we die. How can you say such things?
Say no more! So Guan Gao and others discussed and said: King Zhao is a loyal and honest man, and he is unwilling to betray the kindness of the emperor.
They secretly plotted against each other to kill the emperor.
Just as the matter was discovered, the Han Dynasty ordered the arrest of King Zhao and the officials who had rebelled.
So Zhao Wu and others committed suicide, and only Guan Gao was willing to be imprisoned.
At this time, the Han Dynasty issued another edict saying: Zhao Guo dares to follow King Zhao to Beijing and is guilty of the crime of three tribes.
Only Meng Shu, Tian Shu and more than a dozen people wore auburn prison clothes, shaved their own hair, and wore torture instruments around their necks. They pretended to be the slaves of King Zhao and followed King Zhao Zhang Ao to Chang'an.
After the rebellion of Guan Gao and others was clarified, King Zhao Zhang Ao was released from prison and deposed as Marquis of Xuan Ping. He recommended and praised Uncle Tian and other ten people.
The emperor summoned them all and talked with them. He thought that none of the ministers in the court could surpass them. The emperor was very happy and appointed them all as county guards or ministers of the princes.
Uncle Tian had been the governor of Hanzhong County for more than ten years. When Empress Gao died, the princes rebelled, and the ministers killed them and established Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty.
After Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he summoned Uncle Tian and asked him: Sir, do you know who is a loyal and virtuous person in the world?
Uncle Tian replied: How could I know?
The emperor said: You are a loyal elder and should be able to know.
Uncle Tian kowtowed and said: Meng Shu, the former governor of Yunzhong County, was a loyal and honest man.
At that time, Meng Shu violated the criminal law because he failed to resist the Huns' invasion and robbery. The invasion and robbery in Yunzhong County was particularly serious, so he was dismissed from his post.
Emperor Wen said: The late emperor appointed Meng Shu as the prefect of Yunzhong County for more than ten years. The Huns invaded, and Meng Shu could not hold on and sent hundreds of soldiers to the army for no reason.
Should a loyal and virtuous elder kill someone?
How can you say that Meng Shu is an elder?
Uncle Tian kowtowed and replied: This is why Meng Shu is an elder.
Guan Gao and others rebelled, and the emperor issued a clear and clear edict. Anyone in Zhao State who dared to follow Zhao Wang Zhang Ao would be punished and the three clans would be punished.
However, Meng Shu shaved off his hair and tied a torture device around his neck, followed Zhao Wang Zhang Ao to where he was going, and wanted to die for him. How could he have expected that he would become the governor of Yunzhong County?
Han and Chu had a long-term confrontation, and the soldiers were tired and distressed.
The Xiongnu King Maodun had just conquered the Northern Yi and came to harm the border. Meng Shu knew that the soldiers were tired and miserable and could not bear to order them to fight again. The soldiers went to the city to fight to the death, just like a son fighting for his father and a younger brother fighting for his elder brother. Therefore, there were hundreds of warriors.
How could Meng Shu deliberately drive them to fight!
This is why Meng Shu is a loyal elder.
So the emperor said: Meng Shu is so virtuous!
He recalled Meng Shu and made him the governor of Yunzhong County again.
A few years later, Uncle Tian lost his position as the prefect of Hanzhong County because of a crime.
King Xiao of Liang sent people to assassinate Yuan Ang, the former prime minister of Wu. Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty recalled Uncle Tian and asked him to go to Liang to review the case. Uncle Tian found out all the facts of the case and reported back to the court.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty said: Did the King of Liang send someone to assassinate Yuan Ang?
He replied: I will be punished by death!
There is such a thing!
The emperor said: Is there any evidence of guilt?
Uncle Tian said: Your Majesty, please don't ask about King Liang's affairs. The emperor said: Why?
Uncle Tian said: If the King of Liang does not obey the law and is executed, the criminal law of the Han Dynasty cannot be implemented. If he fails to obey the law and dies, the Queen Mother will have trouble sleeping and eating. This is your worry again!
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty appreciated him very much and made him the prime minister of Lu.
When Uncle Tian took office, more than a hundred people came to him and accused King Lu of taking their property.
Uncle Tian caught the leading twenty men and beat them with fifty big sticks each, and the rest of them each slapped twenty on their palms. He got angry at them and said, "Isn't King Lu your monarch?"
How dare you slander the monarch!
summary:
Uncle Tian, a native of Xingcheng in Zhao State and a descendant of the Tian family of Qi, was a strict and honest man who studied Huang-Lao theories and swordsmanship. Recommended by Zhao Wu, he served as a doctor under King Zhao Zhang Ao, known for his uprightness. During Emperor Gaozu of Han’s campaign against Chen Xi’s rebellion, the emperor insulted King Zhao, angering Zhao Wu and others who plotted rebellion. King Zhao refused, but Guan Gao secretly conspired to kill the emperor. When discovered, Zhao Wu committed suicide, and Guan Gao was imprisoned. An edict threatened the three-clan punishment for anyone following King Zhao to Chang’an. Meng Shu, Tian Shu, and over a dozen others shaved their heads, wore prison clothes, and pretended to be King Zhao’s slaves to accompany him. After Guan Gao’s rebellion was resolved, King Zhao was deposed as Marquis of Xuan Ping and recommended these men. The emperor appointed them all as county governors or ministers. Uncle Tian served as governor of Hanzhong for over ten years. After Empress Gao’s death, Emperor Wen of Han ascended and asked Uncle Tian about loyal and virtuous men. Uncle Tian praised Meng Shu, who had shaved his head and followed King Zhao to die for him, and who, as governor of Yunzhong, spared his tired soldiers from fighting the Xiongnu, leading to his dismissal. Emperor Wen reinstated Meng Shu. Later, Uncle Tian lost his position due to a crime. Emperor Jing of Han sent him to investigate King Xiao of Liang’s assassination of Yuan Ang. Uncle Tian advised against pursuing the case to avoid upsetting the Queen Mother, and was made prime minister of Lu. There, he punished those accusing King Lu of theft, and King Lu returned the property. Uncle Tian refused to rest in pavilions while King Lu hunted, curbing the king’s excess. He died as prime minister of Lu. His son Tian Ren refused gold offerings, preserving his father’s reputation. Tian Ren became General Wei Qing’s retainer, later a doctor, and served as prime minister with a two-thousand-stone salary. He lost his position, then became Jingfu Duwei and Si Zhi. Implicated in the prince’s rebellion, he let the prince escape the city gate and was executed. Ren An, from Xingyang, rose from poverty to become a retainer of General Wei Qing alongside Tian Ren. Both were recommended by Zhao Yu for their talents. Emperor Wu of Han appointed Ren An to supervise the Northern Army and Tian Ren to oversee border farming. Ren An became governor of Yizhou. Tian Ren, as prime minister, inspected Sanhe, executing corrupt officials, and became Prime Minister Sizhi. During the prince’s rebellion, Tian Ren let the prince escape and was executed. Ren An, as Northern Army protector, refused the prince’s summons but was later accused of duplicity and executed. The text warns against failing to retreat from wealth and power, citing Fan Li as a model.

