Chunk 0: 
original: 
田叔者，赵陉城人也。其先，齐田氏苗裔也。
叔喜剑，学黄老术於乐巨公所。叔为人刻廉自喜，喜游诸公。
赵人举之赵相赵午，午言之赵王张敖所，赵王以为郎中。
数岁，切直廉平，赵王贤之，未及迁。
会陈豨反代，汉七年，高祖往诛之，过赵，赵王张敖自持案进食，礼恭甚，高祖箕踞骂之。
是时赵相赵午等数十人皆怒，谓赵王曰： 王事上礼备矣，今遇王如是，臣等请为乱。
赵王齧指出血，曰： 先人失国，微陛下，臣等当蟲出。
公等柰何言若是！毋复出口矣！ 於是贯高等曰： 王长者，不倍德。
卒私相与谋弑上。
会事发觉，汉下诏捕赵王及群臣反者。
於是赵午等皆自杀，唯贯高就系。
是时汉下诏书： 赵有敢随王者罪三族。
唯孟舒、田叔等十馀人赭衣自髡钳，称王家奴，随赵王敖至长安。
贯高事明白，赵王敖得出，废为宣平侯，乃进言田叔等十馀人。
上尽召见，与语，汉廷臣毋能出其右者，上说，尽拜为郡守、诸侯相。
叔为汉中守十馀年，会高后崩，诸吕作乱，大臣诛之，立孝文帝。
孝文帝既立，召田叔问之曰： 公知天下长者乎？
对曰： 臣何足以知之！
上曰： 公，长者也，宜知之。
叔顿首曰： 故云中守孟舒，长者也。
是时孟舒坐虏大入塞盗劫，云中尤甚，免。
上曰： 先帝置孟舒云中十馀年矣，虏曾一人，孟舒不能坚守，毋故士卒战死者数百人。
长者固杀人乎？
公何以言孟舒为长者也？
叔叩头对曰： 是乃孟舒所以为长者也。
夫贯高等谋反，上下明诏，赵有敢随张王，罪三族。
然孟舒自髡钳，随张王敖之所在，欲以身死之，岂自知为云中守哉！
汉与楚相距，士卒罢敝。
匈奴冒顿新服北夷，来为边害，孟舒知士卒罢敝，不忍出言，士争临城死敌，如子为父，弟为兄，以故死者数百人。
孟舒岂故驱战之哉！
是乃孟舒所以为长者也。
於是上曰： 贤哉孟舒！
复召孟舒以为云中守。
後数岁，叔坐法失官。
梁孝王使人杀故吴相袁盎，景帝召田叔案梁，具得其事，还报。
景帝曰： 梁有之乎？
叔对曰： 死罪！
有之。
上曰： 其事安在？
田叔曰： 上毋以梁事为也。
上曰： 何也？ 曰： 今梁王不伏诛，是汉法不行也；如其伏法，而太后食不甘味，卧不安席，此忧在陛下也。
景帝大贤之，以为鲁相。
鲁相初到，民自言相，讼王取其财物百馀人。
田叔取其渠率二十人，各笞五十，馀各搏二十，怒之曰： 王非若主邪？
何自敢言若主！
translation: 
Uncle Tian is a native of Xingcheng, Zhao State, and his ancestors are descendants of the Tian family of Qi State.
Uncle Tian liked swordsmanship and once studied Huang and Lao's theories at Le Jugong's residence.
Uncle Tian is a strict and honest man, and he takes great pride in this. I like to hang out with those people who are highly respected. The people of Zhao recommended him to Zhao Wu, the prime minister, and Zhao Wu praised him to King Zhao Zhang Ao, who appointed him as a doctor.
After serving for several years, he has always been upright, honest and fair. Although King Zhao appreciated him, he did not have time to promote him.
It happened that Chen Xi was rebelling in Dai. In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu went to punish him. When passing by Zhao State, King Zhao Zhang Ao personally brought a plate of food to offer food. The etiquette was very respectful, but Emperor Gaozu of Han arrogantly sat with his legs stretched out and cursed him.
At that time, Zhao Prime Minister Zhao Wu and dozens of others were very angry, and said to Zhao Wang Zhang Ao: You served the emperor with complete etiquette, but now you are treated like this. We ask for rebellion.
King Zhao bit his finger and it bled, and said: My father has lost his country. Without Your Majesty, our bodies will be infested with maggots and no one will collect them after we die. How can you say such things?
Say no more! So Guan Gao and others discussed and said: King Zhao is a loyal and honest man, and he is unwilling to betray the kindness of the emperor.
They secretly plotted against each other to kill the emperor.
Just as the matter was discovered, the Han Dynasty ordered the arrest of King Zhao and the officials who had rebelled.
So Zhao Wu and others committed suicide, and only Guan Gao was willing to be imprisoned.
At this time, the Han Dynasty issued another edict saying: Zhao Guo dares to follow King Zhao to Beijing and is guilty of the crime of three tribes.
Only Meng Shu, Tian Shu and more than a dozen people wore auburn prison clothes, shaved their own hair, and wore torture instruments around their necks. They pretended to be the slaves of King Zhao and followed King Zhao Zhang Ao to Chang'an.
After the rebellion of Guan Gao and others was clarified, King Zhao Zhang Ao was released from prison and deposed as Marquis of Xuan Ping. He recommended and praised Uncle Tian and other ten people.
The emperor summoned them all and talked with them. He thought that none of the ministers in the court could surpass them. The emperor was very happy and appointed them all as county guards or ministers of the princes.
Uncle Tian had been the governor of Hanzhong County for more than ten years. When Empress Gao died, the princes rebelled, and the ministers killed them and established Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty.
After Emperor Wen of Han came to the throne, he summoned Uncle Tian and asked him: Sir, do you know who is a loyal and virtuous person in the world?
Uncle Tian replied: How could I know?
The emperor said: You are a loyal elder and should be able to know.
Uncle Tian kowtowed and said: Meng Shu, the former governor of Yunzhong County, was a loyal and honest man.
At that time, Meng Shu violated the criminal law because he failed to resist the Huns' invasion and robbery. The invasion and robbery in Yunzhong County was particularly serious, so he was dismissed from his post.
Emperor Wen said: The late emperor appointed Meng Shu as the prefect of Yunzhong County for more than ten years. The Huns invaded, and Meng Shu could not hold on and sent hundreds of soldiers to the army for no reason.
Should a loyal and virtuous elder kill someone?
How can you say that Meng Shu is an elder?
Uncle Tian kowtowed and replied: This is why Meng Shu is an elder.
Guan Gao and others rebelled, and the emperor issued a clear and clear edict. Anyone in Zhao State who dared to follow Zhao Wang Zhang Ao would be punished and the three clans would be punished.
However, Meng Shu shaved off his hair and tied a torture device around his neck, followed Zhao Wang Zhang Ao to where he was going, and wanted to die for him. How could he have expected that he would become the governor of Yunzhong County?
Han and Chu had a long-term confrontation, and the soldiers were tired and distressed.
The Xiongnu King Maodun had just conquered the Northern Yi and came to harm the border. Meng Shu knew that the soldiers were tired and miserable and could not bear to order them to fight again. The soldiers went to the city to fight to the death, just like a son fighting for his father and a younger brother fighting for his elder brother. Therefore, there were hundreds of warriors.
How could Meng Shu deliberately drive them to fight!
This is why Meng Shu is a loyal elder.
So the emperor said: Meng Shu is so virtuous!
He recalled Meng Shu and made him the governor of Yunzhong County again.
A few years later, Uncle Tian lost his position as the prefect of Hanzhong County because of a crime.
King Xiao of Liang sent people to assassinate Yuan Ang, the former prime minister of Wu. Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty recalled Uncle Tian and asked him to go to Liang to review the case. Uncle Tian found out all the facts of the case and reported back to the court.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty said: Did the King of Liang send someone to assassinate Yuan Ang?
He replied: I will be punished by death!
There is such a thing!
The emperor said: Is there any evidence of guilt?
Uncle Tian said: Your Majesty, please don't ask about King Liang's affairs. The emperor said: Why?
Uncle Tian said: If the King of Liang does not obey the law and is executed, the criminal law of the Han Dynasty cannot be implemented. If he fails to obey the law and dies, the Queen Mother will have trouble sleeping and eating. This is your worry again!
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty appreciated him very much and made him the prime minister of Lu.
When Uncle Tian took office, more than a hundred people came to him and accused King Lu of taking their property.
Uncle Tian caught the leading twenty men and beat them with fifty big sticks each, and the rest of them each slapped twenty on their palms. He got angry at them and said, "Isn't King Lu your monarch?"
How dare you slander the monarch!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
鲁王闻之大惭，发中府钱，使相偿之。
相曰： 王自夺之，使相偿之，是王为恶而相为善也。
相毋与偿之。
於是王乃尽偿之。
鲁王好猎，相常从入苑中，王辄休相就馆舍，相出，常暴坐待王苑外。
王数使人请相休，终不休，曰： 我王暴露苑中，我独何为就舍！
鲁王以故不大出游。
数年，叔以官卒，鲁以百金祠，少子仁不受也，曰： 不以百金伤先人名。
仁以壮健为卫将军舍人，数从击匈奴。
卫将军进言仁，仁为郎中。
数岁，为二千石丞相长史，失官。
其後使刺举三河。
上东巡，仁奏事有辞，上说，拜为京辅都尉。
月馀，上迁拜为司直。
数岁，坐太子事。
时左相自将兵，令司直田仁主闭守城门，坐纵太子，下吏诛死。
仁发兵，长陵令车千秋上变仁，仁族死。
陉城今在中山国。
太史公曰：孔子称曰 居是国必闻其政 ，田叔之谓乎！
义不忘贤，明主之美以救过。仁与余善，余故并论之。
褚先生曰：臣为郎时，闻之曰田仁故与任安相善。
任安，荥阳人也。
少孤贫困，为人将车之长安，留，求事为小吏，未有因缘也，因占著名数。
武功，扶风西界小邑也，谷口蜀刬道近山。
安以为武功小邑，无豪，易高也，安留，代人为求盗亭父。
後为亭长。
translation: 
When King Lu heard about it, he was very ashamed and took out money from his inner treasury to ask the prime minister to repay them.
Uncle Tian said: If the king takes something from himself and asks the prime minister to repay it, this means that the king does bad things and the prime minister does good things.
The Prime Minister cannot be involved in repayment.
So King Lu returned all the property to them.
King Lu loved hunting, and Uncle Tian often followed him into the hunting gardens. King Lu always asked him to rest in the pavilion, so Uncle Tian would go out of the gardens and often sit in the open air waiting for King Lu.
King Lu sent people to ask him to rest many times, but he never went, saying: We, King Lu, are exposed in the garden, how can I go to the palace alone?
For this reason, King Lu no longer went out hunting excessively.
A few years later, Uncle Tian died while serving as the Prime Minister of the State of Lu. King Lu used a hundred catties of gold as a sacrifice for him. His youngest son Tian Ren refused to accept it, saying: "You cannot damage your late father's reputation just because of a hundred pounds of gold."
Because of his strong health, Tian Ren became General Wei Qing's retainer. He followed him to attack the Huns many times.
General Wei recommended and praised Tian Ren, and Tian Ren became a doctor.
A few years later, he served as the prime minister with a salary of two thousand stone, but later lost his position.
After that, he was sent to scout and patrol the three counties of Henan, Hedong and Hanoi.
The emperor went to the east to patrol, and Tian Ren played with exquisite words. The emperor was very happy and appointed him as the capital of Jingfu.
More than a month later, the emperor promoted him to Si Zhi again.
A few years later, he was implicated in the prince's rebellion.
At that time, the left prime minister Liu Quyou personally led the army to fight against the prince, and ordered Si Zhi Tianren to close and guard the city gate. Because Tian Ren committed a crime by letting the prince escape from the city gate, he was handed over to the judge and sentenced to death.
As soon as Tian Ren led troops to Changling, Changling ordered Che Qianqiu to report Tian Ren for rebellion, and Tian Ren was exterminated and executed.
Xingcheng now belongs to Zhongshan Kingdom.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said in a complimentary tone that if you live in this country, you will definitely participate in its government affairs. It must be Uncle Tian who said this!
He is righteous and never forgets his virtues, which makes the king's beauty flourish and can correct the king's mistakes. Tian Ren and I have a good relationship, so I will narrate Uncle Tian and Tian Ren together.
Mr. Chu said: When I was the minister, I heard that Tian Ren had a good relationship with Ren An earlier.
Ren An is from Xingyang.
He became an orphan when he was young and lived in poverty. He drove someone else's car to Chang'an and stayed there. He wanted to be a small official. Without a chance, he learned about and estimated the household registration situation and population in some places.
Wugong is a small county to the west of Fufeng. There is a plank road leading to Shu at the entrance of the valley.
Ren An believed that Wugong was a small county with no wealthy families and it would be easy to improve his status, so he stayed and became a thief and thief on behalf of others.
Later he became the director of the pavilion.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
邑中人民俱出猎，任安常为人分麋鹿雉兔，部署老小当壮剧易处，众人皆喜，曰： 无怂也，任少卿分别平，有智略。
明日复合会，会者数百人。
任少卿曰： 某子甲何为不来乎？
诸人皆怪其见之疾也。
其後除为三老，举为亲民，出为三百石长，治民。
坐上行出游共帐不办，斥免。
乃为卫将军舍人，与田仁会，俱为舍人，居门下，同心相爱。
此二人家贫，无钱用以事将军家监，家监使养恶齧马。
两人同床卧，仁窃言曰： 不知人哉家监也！
任安曰： 将军尚不知人，何乃家监也！
卫将军从此两人过平阳主，主家令两人与骑奴同席而食，此二子拔刀列断席别坐。
主家皆怪而恶之，莫敢呵。
其後有诏募择卫将军舍人以为郎，将军取舍人中富给者，令具鞍马绛衣玉具剑，欲入奏之。
会贤大夫少府赵禹来过卫将军，将军呼所举舍人以示赵禹。
赵禹以次问之，十馀人无一人习事有智略者。
赵禹曰： 吾闻之，将门之下必有将类。
传曰 不知其君视其所使，不知其子视其所友 。
今有诏举将军舍人者，欲以观将军而能得贤者文武之士也。
今徒取富人子上之，又无智略，如木偶人衣之绮绣耳，将柰之何？
於是赵禹悉召卫将军舍人百馀人，以次问之，得田仁、任安，曰： 独此两人可耳，馀无可用者。
卫将军见此两人贫，意不平。
赵禹去，谓两人曰： 各自具鞍马新绛衣。
两人对曰： 家贫无用具也。
将军怒曰： 今两君家自为贫，何为出此言？
鞅鞅如有移德於我者，何也？
将军不得已，上籍以闻。
有诏召见卫将军舍人，此二人前见，诏问能略相推第也。
translation: 
The people in the county all went out to hunt in the city. Ren An often distributed elk, pheasants, hares and other prey to people, and arranged the elderly, children and young men to places that were difficult or easy. Everyone was very happy and said: "It doesn't matter. Ren Shaoqing analyzed and judged things fairly and wisely."
There will be another meeting tomorrow, with hundreds of people in attendance.
Ren Shaoqing said: So-and-so’s son is named A. Why doesn’t he come?
Everyone was surprised how quickly he got to know people.
Later, he was appointed as the third elder in the village and recommended as an official close to the people, presiding over the affairs of the township.
He was also appointed as an official with a salary of three hundred stones to manage the people.
Because the emperor failed to arrange curtains for use when he was on tour, he was dismissed from his official position. From then on, he became General Wei Qing's retainer. Together with Tian Ren, they both became retainers and lived in the general's mansion. The two were close friends.
The two men were poor at home and had no money to serve the general's steward, who asked them to feed their master's powerful horses.
The two were sleeping in the same bed, and Tian Ren said quietly: "You don't understand people so well, this housekeeper!"
Ren An said: The general doesn't understand people, let alone the steward?
Once, General Wei asked them to follow him to visit Princess Pingyang. The princess's family asked them to eat on the same mat as Qin Nu. The two men drew their swords and cut the mat and sat on separate tables with Qin Nu.
Everyone in the princess's family was surprised and disgusted with them, and no one dared to shout loudly.
Later, the emperor issued an edict to recruit and select the retainers of General Wei to be his retainers. The general selected the wealthy ones among his retainers and asked them to prepare pommel horses, crimson clothes and jade-decorated swords to prepare for the palace performance.
It happened that Zhao Yu, a capable official and young minister, came to visit General Wei. The general summoned the recommended retainers and showed them to Zhao Yu.
Zhao Yu questioned them one by one, and found that not one of the more than ten people was knowledgeable or wise.
Zhao Yu said: I heard that there must be someone in the general's family who can be a general.
An ancient book says: If you don’t understand the king, look at the people he appoints. If you don’t understand that person, look at the friends he makes.
The reason why the emperor now issues an edict to recommend the general's retainers is to see what kind of virtuous people, civil and military talents the general can get.
Now we just select the children of rich people to report. These people have no intelligence and are like puppets wearing beautiful clothes. What are you going to do?
So Zhao Yu summoned all the guests of General Wei, more than 100 people, and questioned them one by one. He found Tian Ren and Ren An and said: "Only these two people can do it, and the rest can't be used."
General Wei was unhappy when he saw the poverty of these two men.
After Zhao Yu left, he said to the two of them: Everyone prepare saddles and new Jiangyi by yourself.
The two men replied: The family is poor and cannot prepare these things.
General Wei got angry and said: Now you two are poor yourself, why do you say such things?
He looks aggrieved as if he has been kind to me. Why is that?
General Wei had no choice but to write a report for the emperor to hear.
The emperor issued an edict to summon the retainers of General Wei, and the two men went to see them. When the emperor summoned them, he asked them about their talents and asked them to recommend each other.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
田仁对曰； 提桴鼓立军门，使士大夫乐死战斗，仁不及任安。
任安对曰： 夫决嫌疑。定是非，辩治官，使百姓无怨心，安不及仁也。
武帝大笑曰： 善。
使任安护北军，使田仁护边田穀於河上。
此两人立名天下。
其後用任安为益州刺史，以田仁为丞相长史。
田仁上书言： 天下郡太守多为奸利，三河尤甚，臣请先刺举三河。
三河太守皆内倚中贵人，与三公有亲属，无所畏惮，宜先正三河以警天下奸吏。
是时河南、河内太守皆御史大夫杜父兄子弟也，河东太守石丞相子孙也。
是时石氏九人为二千石，方盛贵。
田仁数上书言之。
杜大夫及石氏使人谢，谓田少卿曰： 吾非敢有语言也，原少卿无相诬汙也。
仁已刺三河，三河太守皆下吏诛死。
仁还奏事，武帝说，以仁为能不畏彊御，拜仁为丞相司直，威振天下。
其後逢太子有兵事，丞相自将兵，使司直主城门。
司直以为太子骨肉之亲，父子之间不甚欲近，去之诸陵过。
是时武帝在甘泉，使御史大夫暴君下责丞相 何为纵太子 ，丞相对言 使司直部守城门而开太子 。
上书以闻，请捕系司直。
司直下吏，诛死。
是时任安为北军使者护军，太子立车北军南门外，召任安，与节令发兵。
安拜受节，入，闭门不出。
武帝闻之，以为任安为详邪，不傅事，何也？
任安笞辱北军钱官小吏，小吏上书言之，以为受太子节，言 幸与我其鲜好者 。
书上闻，武帝曰： 是老吏也，见兵事起，欲坐观成败，见胜者欲合从之，有两心。
translation: 
Tian Ren replied: "I am not as good as Ren An holding a drumstick in my hand, standing at the military gate, and making my subordinates willing to die in battle."
Ren An replied: I am not as good as Tian Ren in deciding suspicion, judging right and wrong, distinguishing subordinate officials, and making the people have no resentment.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty laughed and said: OK!
Let Ren An supervise the Northern Army, and let Tian Ren go to the Yellow River to supervise the farming and grain production at the border fortress.
The two men immediately became famous all over the world.
Later, Ren An was made the governor of Yizhou, and Tian Ren was made the prime minister.
Tian Ren once wrote to the emperor saying: There are many people among the prefects of various counties in the world who have used illegal means to seek personal gain, especially in the Sanhe area. I request that the Shanhe area be inspected first.
The governors of Sanhe all rely on the dignitaries in the court in the capital and are related to the three princes. They have nothing to fear. They should first rectify Sanhe to warn the officials who behave badly in the world.
At that time, the prefects of Hexi and Hanoi counties were all relatives of Du Zhou, the imperial censor, and the prefect of Hedong county was a descendant of Prime Minister Shi Qing.
At this time, nine members of the Shi family were serving as officials enjoying a salary of two thousand stone, and they were on the verge of prosperity.
Tian Ren wrote many times to discuss this matter.
The imperial ministers Du Zhou and Shi sent people to apologize and said to Tian Shaoqing: I dare not say anything, but I hope Shaoqing will not make false accusations and taint us.
After Tian Ren investigated and inspected Sanhe, the prefect of Sanhe was sent to the judge and sentenced to death.
Tian Ren reported back to the court. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy. He believed that Tian Ren was talented and not afraid of violent and powerful people. He appointed Tian Ren as Prime Minister Sizhi, and his reputation shocked the world.
Later, when Tian Ren encountered the prince's rebellion, the prime minister personally led the army and ordered Tian Ren to guard the city gate.
Tian Ren believed that the prince and the emperor were flesh and blood relatives, and did not want to get involved in the conflict between father and son, so he left the city gate and went to various tombs, so that the prince could escape from the city gate.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was in Ganquan Palace and sent the imperial censor to question the prime minister: Why did he let the prince go? The prime minister replied: I ordered Sizhi to guard the city gate, but he opened the door and let the prince go.
The imperial censor reported to the emperor and asked for permission to arrest Sizhi.
Si Zhi was sent to the judge for interrogation and then executed.
At this time, Ren An served as the envoy and protector of the Northern Army. The prince stopped the car outside the south gate of the Northern Army, summoned Ren An, gave him the talisman, and ordered him to mobilize the Northern Army.
Ren An bowed down to accept the talisman. After entering, he closed the military door and never came out.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard about it, he thought that Ren An was pretending to accept the festival and refused to agree with the prince, but he also had doubts?
Ren An once beat and humiliated a minor official in charge of money in the Northern Army. The minor official took the opportunity to write a report, revealing that he accepted the Prince's Talisman Festival, and that the Prince also said: He hopes to give me a good army.
The letter was read by the emperor, and Emperor Wu said: This is a tactful official. When he saw the prince's rebellion, he wanted to sit back and watch the victory or defeat, and he would agree and obey whoever saw victory. He had second thoughts.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
安有当死之罪甚众，吾常活之，今怀诈，有不忠之心。
下安吏，诛死。
夫月满则亏，物盛则衰，天地之常也。
知进而不知退，久乘富贵，祸积为祟。
故范蠡之去越，辞不受官位，名传後世，万岁不忘，岂可及哉！
後进者慎戒之。
translation: 
Ren An has committed many crimes that are punishable by death. I often let him live, but now he is harboring fraud and disloyalty.
Ren An was handed over to a judge for trial and sentenced to death.
The moon will be waning when it is full, and things will weaken when they are at their peak. This is the law of all things in the world.
Only knowing how to make progress but not knowing how to retreat, if you stay in a position of wealth and honor for a long time, you will also bring disasters to others due to the accumulation of disasters.
Therefore, Fan Li left the Yue Kingdom and refused to accept the official position and title, so his reputation was passed down to future generations and would not be forgotten for thousands of years. How could ordinary people compare to him?
Those who come after must learn from Tian Ren and Ren An.


