Summary line 0
Span: 0-24 (score=0.5784)

original:
孔休源江革孔休源，字庆绪，会稽山阴人也。
晋丹阳太守冲之八世孙。
曾祖遥之，宋尚书水部郎。
父珮，齐庐陵王记室参军，早卒。
休源年十一而孤，居丧尽礼，每见父手所写书，必哀恸流涕，不能自胜，见者莫不为之垂泣。
后就吴兴沈驎士受经，略通大义。
建武四年，州举秀才，太尉徐孝嗣省其策，深善之，谓同坐曰： 董仲舒、华令思何以尚此，可谓后生之准也。
观其此对，足称王佐之才。
琅邪王融雅相友善，乃荐之于司徒竟陵王，为西邸学士。
梁台建，与南阳刘之遴同为太学博士，当时以为美选。
休源初到京，寓于宗人少府卿孔登宅，曾以祠事入庙，侍中范云一与相遇，深加褒赏，曰： 不期忽觏清颜，顿袪鄙吝，观天披雾，验之今日。
后云命驾到少府门，登便拂筵整带，谓当诣己，既而独造休源，高谈尽日，同载还家，登深以为愧。
尚书令沈约当朝贵显，轩盖盈门，休源或时后来，必虚襟引接，处之坐右，商略文义。
其为通人所推如此。
俄除临川王府行参军。
高祖尝问吏部尚书徐勉曰： 今帝业初基，须一人有学艺解朝仪者，为尚书仪曹郎。
为朕思之，谁堪其选？
勉对曰： 孔休源识具清通，谙练故实，自晋、宋《起居注》诵略上口。
高祖亦素闻之，即日除兼尚书仪曹郎中。
是时多所改作，每逮访前事，休源即以所诵记随机断决，曾无疑滞。
吏部郎任昉常谓之为 孔独诵 。
迁建康狱正，及辨讼折狱，时罕冤人。
后有选人为狱司者，高祖尚引休源以励之。
除中书舍人，司徒临川王府记室参军，迁尚书左丞，弹肃礼闱，雅允朝望。
时太子詹事周舍撰《礼疑义》，自汉魏至于齐梁，并皆搜采，休源所有奏议，咸预编录。

translation:
Kong Xiuyuan, courtesy name Qingxu, was a native of Shanyin, Kuaiji.
The eighth grandson of Kong Chong, the prefect of Danyang in Jin Dynasty.
His great-grandfather Kong Yaozhi served as Minister of the Ministry of Water of the Song Dynasty.
His father, Wang Er, died early when he was appointed to Chalu and fell into the Wangji family to join the army.
Xiuyuan lost his father when he was eleven years old. The mourning period was completely in accordance with etiquette. Every time he saw his father's handwriting, he would burst into tears and couldn't help himself. Everyone who saw it would not shed tears for him.
Later, he went to Wuxing to study under Xuan Diezao, and he was familiar with the principles of Confucian classics.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, the prefecture held a ceremony for scholars. Taiwei Tu Cunqi read his policies and articles and admired them very much. He said to the people sitting with him: "Why are Dong Zhongshu and Hua Lingsi better than him? They can be called models for future generations."
Looking at his policy article, it can be said that he has the talent of a king.
Wang Rong, a native of Longxie, was very friendly with him, so he recommended Kong Shunuo to King Situ Jingling as a bachelor of Xili.
The chisel sculpture was built, and Lu Li and the humanoid master were both doctors of Taixue. People at the time thought it was a beauty.
Xiuyuan came to Beijing for the first time and stayed in the house of Kong Deng, the minister of the clan's Shaofu. He once went to the temple for sacrifices. Fan Yun, the attendant, met him for the first time and praised him very much. He said: "I met you unexpectedly, and my stingy heart disappeared. Unexpectedly, I parted the clouds and saw the blue sky today."
Later in the day, he drove to the Shaofu Gate. Renzhao prepared the banquet, thinking that he must be visiting him. However, he visited Xiuyuan alone, talked for the whole day, and drove back together. Kong Deng felt deeply ashamed.
Shangshu ordered Shen Yue to be a noble person in the court, and the door was full of carriages and horses. Xiu Yuan would arrive later, and he would receive him humbly and let him sit on the right side to discuss literature and meaning.
He was held in high esteem by learned men as such.
Soon he was granted the title of Prince of Linchuan to join the army.
Xu Mian, the Minister of Civil Affairs during the Great Ancestor's reign: Now that the emperor's career has been decided, he needs someone who is knowledgeable and understands the etiquette of the court to be appointed as Minister Cao Lang.
Think about me, who can do the job.
Xu Mian replied: Kong Xiuyuan has clear knowledge and is familiar with the past. He is familiar with the "Daily Notes" of the Jin Dynasty and Song Dynasty.
Emperor Gaozu had always heard about it, so he was awarded the title of Doctor Cao, who was also the Minister of Book Yi.
At that time, there were many changes in the court rituals. Whenever he was asked about the past, Xiuyuan immediately made random decisions based on his memory without hesitation.
Renfang, the official of the official department, often called him "Kong Dusong".
He moved to Kangyuanzheng, where he tried cases and seldom wronged anyone.
Later, some people were selected to serve as prison chiefs, and Emperor Gaozu encouraged them by citing Xiu Yuan's deeds.
He was granted the title of Zhongshu Sheren, and Situ joined the army in the palace's record office. He moved to Zuocheng, Shangshu, and rectified the Shangshu Province, living up to the expectations of the court.
At that time, Prince Zhan Shizhou She compiled "The Book of Rites", which included relevant historical materials from Han and Wei to Qi and Liang, and all Xiuyuan's memorials were selected for inclusion.

summary:
Kong Xiuyuan, courtesy name Qingxu, was from Shanyin, Kuaiji, and a descendant of Jin Dynasty official Kong Chong. Orphaned at eleven, he strictly observed mourning rites and was deeply moved by his father's handwriting. He studied Confucian classics under Xuan Diezao in Wuxing. In the fourth year of Jianwu, his policy essays impressed Taiwei Tu Cunqi, who compared him favorably to Dong Zhongshu and Hua Lingsi. Wang Rong of Longxie recommended him as a bachelor of Xili to King Situ Jingling. Upon arriving in the capital, he stayed with Minister Kong Deng, where Attendant Fan Yun praised him highly. Later, when Renzhao prepared a banquet expecting many guests, he visited only Xiuyuan, causing Kong Deng shame. Shangshu Ling Shen Yue, a powerful court figure, received Xiuyuan humbly and seated him at his right to discuss literature.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 6-50 (score=0.6406)

original:
建武四年，州举秀才，太尉徐孝嗣省其策，深善之，谓同坐曰： 董仲舒、华令思何以尚此，可谓后生之准也。
观其此对，足称王佐之才。
琅邪王融雅相友善，乃荐之于司徒竟陵王，为西邸学士。
梁台建，与南阳刘之遴同为太学博士，当时以为美选。
休源初到京，寓于宗人少府卿孔登宅，曾以祠事入庙，侍中范云一与相遇，深加褒赏，曰： 不期忽觏清颜，顿袪鄙吝，观天披雾，验之今日。
后云命驾到少府门，登便拂筵整带，谓当诣己，既而独造休源，高谈尽日，同载还家，登深以为愧。
尚书令沈约当朝贵显，轩盖盈门，休源或时后来，必虚襟引接，处之坐右，商略文义。
其为通人所推如此。
俄除临川王府行参军。
高祖尝问吏部尚书徐勉曰： 今帝业初基，须一人有学艺解朝仪者，为尚书仪曹郎。
为朕思之，谁堪其选？
勉对曰： 孔休源识具清通，谙练故实，自晋、宋《起居注》诵略上口。
高祖亦素闻之，即日除兼尚书仪曹郎中。
是时多所改作，每逮访前事，休源即以所诵记随机断决，曾无疑滞。
吏部郎任昉常谓之为 孔独诵 。
迁建康狱正，及辨讼折狱，时罕冤人。
后有选人为狱司者，高祖尚引休源以励之。
除中书舍人，司徒临川王府记室参军，迁尚书左丞，弹肃礼闱，雅允朝望。
时太子詹事周舍撰《礼疑义》，自汉魏至于齐梁，并皆搜采，休源所有奏议，咸预编录。
除给事黄门侍郎，迁长兼御史中丞，正色直绳，无所回避，百僚莫不惮之。
除少府卿，又兼行丹阳尹事。
出为宣惠晋安王府长史、南郡太守、行荆州府州事。
高祖谓之曰： 荆州总上流冲要，义高分陕，今以十岁儿委卿，善匡翼之，勿惮周昌之举也。
对曰： 臣以庸鄙，曲荷恩遇，方揣丹诚，效其一割。
上善其对，乃敕晋安王曰： 孔休源人伦仪表，汝年尚幼，当每事师之。
寻而始兴王嶦代镇荆州，复为憺府长史，南郡太守、行府州事如故。
在州累政，甚有治绩，平心决断，请托不行。
高祖深嘉之。
除通直散骑常侍，领羽林监，转秘书监，迁明威将军，复为晋安王府长史、南兰陵太守，别敕专行南徐州事。
休源累佐名籓，甚得民誉，王深相倚仗，军民机务，动止询谋。
常于中斋别施一榻，云 此是孔长史坐 ，人莫得预焉。
其见敬如此。
征为太府卿，俄授都官尚书，顷之，领太子中庶子。
普通七年，扬州刺史临川王宏薨，高祖与群臣议代王居州任者久之，于时贵戚王公，咸望迁授，高祖曰： 朕已得人。
孔休源才识通敏，实应此选。
乃授宣惠将军、监扬州。
休源初为临川王行佐，及王薨而管州任，时论荣之。
而神州都会，簿领殷繁，休源割断如流，傍无私谒。
中大通二年，加授金紫光禄大夫，监扬州如故。
累表陈让，优诏不许。
在州昼决辞讼，夜览坟籍。
每车驾巡幸，常以军国事委之。
昭明太子薨，有敕夜召休源入宴居殿，与群公参定谋议，立晋安王纲为皇太子。
四年，遘疾，高祖遣中使候问，并给医药，日有十数。
其年五月，卒，时年六十四。

translation:
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, the prefecture held a ceremony for scholars. Taiwei Tu Cunqi read his policies and articles and admired them very much. He said to the people sitting with him: "Why are Dong Zhongshu and Hua Lingsi better than him? They can be called models for future generations."
Looking at his policy article, it can be said that he has the talent of a king.
Wang Rong, a native of Longxie, was very friendly with him, so he recommended Kong Shunuo to King Situ Jingling as a bachelor of Xili.
The chisel sculpture was built, and Lu Li and the humanoid master were both doctors of Taixue. People at the time thought it was a beauty.
Xiuyuan came to Beijing for the first time and stayed in the house of Kong Deng, the minister of the clan's Shaofu. He once went to the temple for sacrifices. Fan Yun, the attendant, met him for the first time and praised him very much. He said: "I met you unexpectedly, and my stingy heart disappeared. Unexpectedly, I parted the clouds and saw the blue sky today."
Later in the day, he drove to the Shaofu Gate. Renzhao prepared the banquet, thinking that he must be visiting him. However, he visited Xiuyuan alone, talked for the whole day, and drove back together. Kong Deng felt deeply ashamed.
Shangshu ordered Shen Yue to be a noble person in the court, and the door was full of carriages and horses. Xiu Yuan would arrive later, and he would receive him humbly and let him sit on the right side to discuss literature and meaning.
He was held in high esteem by learned men as such.
Soon he was granted the title of Prince of Linchuan to join the army.
Xu Mian, the Minister of Civil Affairs during the Great Ancestor's reign: Now that the emperor's career has been decided, he needs someone who is knowledgeable and understands the etiquette of the court to be appointed as Minister Cao Lang.
Think about me, who can do the job.
Xu Mian replied: Kong Xiuyuan has clear knowledge and is familiar with the past. He is familiar with the "Daily Notes" of the Jin Dynasty and Song Dynasty.
Emperor Gaozu had always heard about it, so he was awarded the title of Doctor Cao, who was also the Minister of Book Yi.
At that time, there were many changes in the court rituals. Whenever he was asked about the past, Xiuyuan immediately made random decisions based on his memory without hesitation.
Renfang, the official of the official department, often called him "Kong Dusong".
He moved to Kangyuanzheng, where he tried cases and seldom wronged anyone.
Later, some people were selected to serve as prison chiefs, and Emperor Gaozu encouraged them by citing Xiu Yuan's deeds.
He was granted the title of Zhongshu Sheren, and Situ joined the army in the palace's record office. He moved to Zuocheng, Shangshu, and rectified the Shangshu Province, living up to the expectations of the court.
At that time, Prince Zhan Shizhou She compiled "The Book of Rites", which included relevant historical materials from Han and Wei to Qi and Liang, and all Xiuyuan's memorials were selected for inclusion.
He was awarded the title of Shilang of Huangmen, moved to the position of chief and censor Zhongcheng. He enforced the law strictly, without any evasion, and all officials were afraid of him.
He was awarded the title of Shaofu Qing, and also acted as Danyang Yin.
He served as the chief historian of Xuanhui Jin'an Palace, the prefect of Nanjun, and was responsible for the state affairs of Jingzhou Prefecture.
Emperor Gaozu said to him: Jingzhou is located in an important place on the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. It is more important than the Duke of Zhou and Duke Zhao of the Zhou Dynasty in governing Shaanxi. I entrust my ten-year-old son to you now. I hope that I can assist you with all my heart. Don't be afraid of becoming Zhou Chang of the Western Han Dynasty.
Xiuyuan replied: I am so mediocre, but I have been treated so favorably, and I want to do my best.
Emperor Gaozu praised his answer and ordered King Jin'an: Kong Xiuyuan is a role model for people. You are still young and should ask him for advice on everything.
Not long after, Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, took charge of Jingzhou, and Kong Xiuyuan was appointed as the chief historian of Xiao Qi Mansion. The affairs of the Nanjun Prefecture and Xingfu Prefecture continued as before.
He has served in the state for many years, has great political achievements, is fair in dealing with things, and has a bad habit of asking for favors.
Gao Zu highly praised him.
He was awarded the title of Standing Attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, led Yulin Supervisor, was transferred to Secretary Supervisor, moved to the post of General Mingwei, and was appointed Chief Historian of Jin'an Palace and Grand Administrator of Nanlanling. He was also ordered to specialize in the affairs of Southern Xuzhou.
Xiuyuan assisted famous vassal kings many times and was highly praised by the people. King Jin'an relied heavily on him and consulted him on all matters concerning the army and the people.
He often set up another couch in Zhongzhai and said, "This is the special seat of Confucius, and no one else is allowed to sit there."
He was respected as such.
After entering the imperial court, he was appointed as Taifu Qing. He was soon granted the title of Minister of the Capital, and soon became the crown prince's concubine.
In the seventh year of the ordinary year, Wang Hong of Linchuan, the governor of Yangzhou, passed away. Emperor Gaozu discussed with his officials to replace the king with someone who had been the governor of the state for a long time. At that time, all the nobles and princes wanted to transfer the post to him. Emperor Gaozu said: "I have got the person."
Kong Tiyuan is talented and knowledgeable, so he should be appointed to this position.
He was given the title of General Xuanhui and the governor of Yangzhou.
Xiuyuan first served as the assistant to the king of Linchuan. When the king died, he took up this position. Current commentators considered it very honorable.
Yangzhou is a big city in the Central Plains, with complicated affairs. Xiuyuan is decisive in doing things, so the wind of entrustment suddenly subsides.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was awarded the title of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and his supervision of Yangzhou continued as before.
He submitted his resignation many times, but the imperial edict did not allow it.
In the state, he solved cases during the day and read ancient books at night.
Whenever the emperor went on an inspection tour, he often entrusted the general with important affairs of the country.
When Prince Zhaoming passed away, he was ordered to summon Xiuyuan to the banquet hall that night. After discussion with the public, Xiao Gang, the king of Jin'an, was appointed crown prince.
In the fourth year, when he fell ill, Emperor Gaozu sent envoys to greet him and doctors to deliver medicine, as many as ten times a day.
He died in May of that year at the age of sixty-four.

summary:
Xiuyuan was appointed Prince of Linchuan's army adjutant. During Emperor Gaozu's reign, Xu Mian recommended him as Minister Cao Lang for his knowledge of Jin and Song court rituals. He served as Doctor Cao and Minister of Book Yi, answering historical questions from memory without hesitation. Renfang, an official, called him "Kong Dusong." He moved to Kangyuanzheng, where he judged cases fairly. Later, as Zhongshu Sheren and Zuocheng, he rectified the Shangshu Province. He compiled "The Book of Rites" with Prince Zhan Shizhou She, including his own memorials. As Shilang of Huangmen and Censor Zhongcheng, he enforced laws strictly, intimidating officials. He served as Shaofu Qing and Danyang Yin, then as chief historian of Xuanhui Jin'an Palace and Prefect of Nanjun, overseeing Jingzhou. Emperor Gaozu entrusted his young son to him, comparing him to Zhou Chang. Xiuyuan served with distinction, rejecting favor-seeking. He later held posts including Standing Attendant, Yulin Supervisor, and Secretary Supervisor. King Jin'an reserved a special seat for him. In the seventh year of the ordinary year, he became Governor of Yangzhou after Wang Hong's death, praised for his talent and knowledge. In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was awarded Doctor Jin Ziguanglu. He died in May at sixty-four, mourned by Emperor Gaozu, who granted posthumous honors and a frugal burial. His collection included over 7,000 volumes and fifteen volumes of impeachment proceedings.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 69-115 (score=0.5752)

original:
性慎密，寡嗜好。
出入帷幄，未尝言禁中事，世以此重之。
聚书盈七千卷，手自校治，凡奏议弹文，勒成十五卷。
长子云童，颇有父风，而笃信佛理，遍持经戒。
官至岳阳王府谘议、东扬州别驾。
少子宗轨，聪敏有识度，历尚书都官郎，司徒左西掾，中书郎。
江革，字休映，济阳考城人也。
祖齐之，宋尚书金部郎。
父柔之，齐尚书仓部郎，有孝行，以母忧毁卒。
革幼而聪敏，早有才思，六岁便解属文。柔之深加赏器，曰： 此儿必兴吾门。
九岁丁父艰，与弟观同生孤贫，傍无师友，兄弟自相训勖，读书精力不倦。
十六丧母，以孝闻。
服阕，与观俱诣太学，补国子生，举高第。
齐中书郎王融、吏部谢朓雅相钦重。
朓尝宿卫，还过候革，时大雪，见革弊絮单席，而耽学不倦，嗟叹久之，乃脱所著襦，并手割半氈与革充卧具而去。
司徒竟陵王闻其名，引为西邸学士。
弱冠举南徐州秀才。
时豫章胡谐之行州事，王融与谐之书，令荐革。
谐之方贡琅邪王泛，便以革代之。
解褐奉朝请。
仆射江祏深相引接，祏为太子詹事，启革为府丞。
祏时权倾朝右，以革才堪经国，令参掌机务，诏诰文檄，皆委以具。
革防杜形迹，外人不知。
祏诛，宾客皆罹其罪，革独以智免。
除尚书驾部郎。
中兴元年，高祖入石头，时吴兴太守袁昂据郡距义师，乃使革制书与昂，于坐立成，辞义典雅，高祖深赏叹之，因令与徐勉同掌书记。
建安王为雍州刺史，表求管记，以革为征北记室参军，带中庐令。
与弟观少长共居，不忍离别，苦求同行，乃以观为征北行参军，兼记室。
时吴兴沈约、乐安任昉，并相赏重，昉与革书云： 此段雍府妙选英才，文房之职，总卿昆季，可谓驭二龙于长途，骋骐骥于千里。
途次江夏，观遇疾卒。
革时在雍，为府王所礼，款若布衣。
王被征为丹阳尹，以革为记室，领五官掾，除通直散骑常侍，建康正。
频迁秣陵、建康令。为治明肃，豪强惮之。
入为中书舍人，尚书左丞，司农卿，复出为云麾晋安王长史、寻阳太守、行江州府事。
徙仁威庐陵王长史，太守、行事如故，以清严为百城所惮。
时少王行事多倾意于签帅，革以正直自居，不与签帅等同坐。
俄迁左光禄大夫、南平王长史、御史中丞，弹奏豪权，一无所避。
除少府卿，出为贞威将军、北中郎南康王长史、广陵太守，改授镇北豫章王长史，将军、太守如故。
时魏徐州刺史元法僧降附，革被敕随府王镇彭城。
城既失守，革素不便马，乃泛舟而还，途经下邳，遂为魏人所执。
魏徐州刺史元延明闻革才名，厚加接待。革称患脚不拜，延明将加害焉，见革辞色严正，更相敬重。
时祖芃同被拘执，延明使芃作《欹器》、《漏刻铭》，革骂芃曰： 卿荷国厚恩，已无报答，今乃为虏立铭，孤负朝廷。
延明闻之，乃令革作丈八寺碑并祭彭祖文，革辞以囚执既久，无复心思。
延明逼之逾苦，将加箠扑。
革厉色而言曰： 江革行年六十，不能杀身报主，今日得死为幸，誓不为人执笔。
延明知不可屈，乃止。
日给脱粟三升，仅余性命。

translation:
He has a cautious temperament and has few hobbies.
When entering and leaving the palace, he did not talk about the affairs of the palace, and the world respected him more.
He has a collection of more than 7,000 volumes, which he personally collated and compiled, and his impeachment proceedings were compiled into fifteen volumes.
The eldest son's name is Yuntong. He is very fatherly. He believes in Buddhism and upholds sutras and precepts.
The official went to Yueyang Prince's Mansion for consultation and left Dongyangzhou.
The younger son was named Zonggui, who was smart and knowledgeable. He served successively as Shangshu Duguanlang, Situ Zuoxipu, and Zhongshulang.
Jiang Ge, whose courtesy name was Xiuying, was from Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His grandfather's name was Zhazhi, and he served as Shangshu Jinbulang in the Song Dynasty.
His father's name was Rouzhi. He served as Shangshu Cangbu Lang in the Qi Dynasty. He served his parents with the utmost filial piety. He died in grief because of his mother's death.
Jiang Ge was young and smart. He had talent early on and could write articles at the age of six. His father admired him very much and once said: This son will definitely make a difference in our family.
His father died when he was nine years old, and his younger brother Jiang Guan was a twin. Because he was an orphan and a poor boy, he had no teachers or friends, so the brothers encouraged each other and were tireless in studying.
His mother died at the age of sixteen and he was famous for his filial piety.
After the period of mourning expired, he and Jiang Su went to Taixue together to become a national student and achieved the best results.
Wang Rong, the scribe of Qi Quzhong, and Xie Chui, the official secretary, respected them very much.
Jiji once served as a guard in the palace. On his way back, he went to visit Jiang Ge. It was snowing heavily. He saw that Jiang Ge was single-seating in ragged clothes, but he was concentrating on studying without getting tired. After sighing for a long time, he took off his clothes, cut off half of the felt with his own hands and used it as a bedding for Jiang Jin.
When King Situ Jingling heard of his name, he introduced him as a bachelor of Nuoying.
At the age of twenty, he was elected as a scholar in Xuzhou.
At that time, Hu Xiezhi, a native of Yuzhang, was handling state affairs. Wang Rong wrote to him and asked him to recommend Jiang Ge.
Xie Zhi was about to recommend Langxie Wang Fan, so he replaced him with Jiang Ge.
He became an official at the invitation of the imperial court.
Pu She Jiang Zhe tried his best to introduce him. Jiang Zhe was appointed Prince Zhan Shi, and Qi Zuo Hong Jin was appointed as Fu Cheng.
At that time, he was very powerful, and he believed that Wuxing had the talent to manage the country, so he was asked to take charge of secrets, and he was entrusted with all the imperial edicts and documents.
Jiang Ge kept his identity secret, and the matter was not known to outsiders.
Liao Tuo was killed, and all his guests were implicated, but Jiang Jin was able to avoid it only by her cleverness.
He was awarded the title of Minister Jiabu Lang.
In the first year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu marched into Shitou. At that time, Yuan Ang, the prefect of Wuxing, occupied the county and resisted. Emperor Gaozu asked Jiang Ge to write a letter to Ang. He wrote it impromptu. The words were elegant and concise. Emperor Gaozu greatly appreciated it, so he made him and Xu Mian share the post of secretary.
The King of Jian'an was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou, and asked to be in charge of the administration. He appointed Jiang Ge as the Zhengbei Records Office to join the army, and led the Zhonglu Order.
He and his younger brother Jiang Guan had never been separated, and they couldn't bear to be separated, so they begged to accompany him, so he appointed Jiang Guan to join the army for the expedition to the north and also served as a recorder.
At that time, Shen Yue, a native of Wuxing, and Ren La, a native of Le'an, both respected him. Ren Fang wrote to Jiang Ge saying: This time Yong Mansion has made a wonderful selection of talents, and all the positions of the study are held by brothers Qing. It can be said that they can control two dragons for long distances and gallop for thousands of miles.
When he arrived in Jiangxia, Jiang Guan fell ill and died.
Jiang Ge was in Yongzhou at that time and received courtesy from the prince, as if he were a friend of common people.
The king was conquered as Danyang Yin, appointed Jiang Ge as the recorder, led the five officials, and was awarded Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, Jiankangzheng.
He frequently moved to Moling and Jiankang orders, and his administration was clear and strict, and the powerful were afraid of him.
He was appointed as Zhongshu Sheren, Shangshu Zuocheng, Sinong Qing, and then served as Yunhui Jin'an Wang Changshi, Xunyang Prefect, and handled Jiangzhou Prefecture affairs.
He moved to Renwei and became the chief historian of Luling. The governor continued to act as usual, and his purity and strictness made officials in hundreds of cities fear him.
At that time, the young king mostly listened to the opinions of the commander-in-chief when doing things. Jiang Ge regarded himself as upright and would not sit with the commander-in-chief and others.
Soon he was moved to the post of Dr. Zuo Guanglu, Nanping Wang Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He impeached the powerful and was fearless.
He was awarded the rank of Shaofu Qing, and was appointed as General Zhenwei, Beizhonglang, Prince Changshi of Nankang, and Grand Administrator of Guangling. He was then granted the title of Chief Secretary of the Prince of Zhenbei Yuzhang, and the general and governor remained the same.
At that time, Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in the Wei Dynasty, surrendered, and Jiang Ge was ordered to guard Pengcheng with the king.
When the city was lost, Jiang Ge never rode a horse, so he returned by boat. Passing by Xiapi, he was captured by the Wei people.
Yuan Yanming, the governor of Xuzhou in the Wei Dynasty, had known Jiang Ge's talents and received him ceremoniously. Jiang Ge refused to pay homage because he had a foot disease. Yanming was going to harm him. Seeing Jiang Jin's serious words, he respected him even more.
At that time, Zu Qu was detained, and Xingdan surrendered! He argued about writing "Qi Qi" and "Leu Engraving Inscription". Liao Jian scolded Zu Qu and said: You have received great kindness from the country and have not repaid it. Now you have written an inscription for the enemy and you have failed the court.
When Yanming heard this, he asked Jiang Ge to write a stele for Zhangcong Temple and a memorial to Peng Zu. Jiang Ge declined on the grounds that he had been imprisoned for a long time and would no longer have the desire to do so.
Yanming forced him very hard and was about to punish him with a beating.
Jiang Ge said sternly: "Jiang Ge is sixty years old and cannot serve the emperor. He is lucky to die today. I swear not to write for others."
Yanming knew he couldn't make him surrender, so he stopped forcing him.
He was given three liters of millet every day, which was barely enough to sustain life.

summary:
Jiang Ge, courtesy name Xiuying, was from Kaocheng, Jiyang. His father died when he was nine, and his mother when he was sixteen, after which he and his brother Jiang Guan studied at Taixue, excelling. Wang Rong and Xie Chui respected them. Once, Ji Ji saw Jiang Ge studying in ragged clothes during a snowstorm and gave him half a felt. King Situ Jingling made him a bachelor. At twenty, he was elected a scholar in Xuzhou. He served as an official, with Pu She Jiang Zhe introducing him. He kept his role in handling imperial edicts secret, avoiding implication in Liao Tuo's death. In the first year of Zhongxing, Emperor Gaozu appreciated his impromptu letter to Yuan Ang. He served under King Jian'an in Yongzhou, but his brother Jiang Guan died en route. He held various posts, including Zhongshu Sheren and Yushi Zhongcheng, impeaching the powerful. During a Wei invasion, he was captured but refused to write inscriptions for the enemy, even under threat of beating. He was given three liters of millet daily. Emperor Gaozu later praised his integrity and appointed him to high offices. As governor of Dongzhou, he refused gifts, handled cases efficiently, and punished corruption. He left office with only a small boat, using stones for ballast. In Wu County, he quelled thieves through kindness. He served as Minister of Ren Duzhi, supporting commoners and juniors. He died in February of the first year of Datong, leaving a collection of twenty volumes. He served eight palaces and four kings without acquiring concubines, living frugally. His sons Xingmin and Cong Jian died early, the latter killed by Hou Jing's rebels. The historian noted that Emperor Gaozu valued Kong Xiuyuan's insights, while Jiang Ge was known for his intelligence and straightforwardness.

================================================================================

