Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 3, 6, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
班氏之先，与楚同姓，令尹子文之后也。
子文初生，弃于瞢中，而虎乳之。
楚人谓乳 穀 ，谓虎 於菟 ，故名穀於菟，字子文。
楚人谓虎 班 ，其子以为号。
秦之灭楚，迁晋、代之间，因氏焉。
始皇之末，班壹避地于楼烦，致马、牛、羊数千群。
值汉初定，与民无禁，当孝惠、高后时，以财雄边，出入弋猎，旌旗鼓吹，年百余岁，以寿终，故北方多以 壹 为字者。
壹生孺。
孺为任侠，州郡歌之。
孺生长，官至上谷守。
长生回，以茂林为长子令。
回生况，举孝廉为郎，积功劳，至上河农都尉，大司农奏课连最，入为左曹越骑校尉。
成帝之初，女为婕妤，致仕就第，资累千金，徒昌陵。
昌陵后罢，大臣名家皆占数于长安。
况生三子：伯、斿、稚。
伯少受《诗》于师丹。
大将军王凤荐伯宜劝学，召见宴昵殿，容貌甚丽，诵说有法，拜为中常侍。
时，上方乡学，郑宽中、张禹朝夕入说《尚书》、《论语》于金华殿中，诏伯受焉。
既通大义，又讲异同于许商，迁奉车都尉。
数年，金华之业绝，出与王、许子弟为群，在于绮襦纨绔之间，非其好也。
家本北边，志节慷慨，数求使匈奴。
河平中，单于来朝，上使伯持节迎于塞下。
会定襄大姓石、李群辈报怨，杀追捕吏，伯上状，因自请愿试守期月。
上遣侍中中郎将王舜驰传代伯护单于，并奉玺书印绶，即拜伯为定襄太守。
定襄闻伯素贵，年少，自请治剧，畏其下车作威，吏民竦息。
translation: 
Ban's ancestors had the same surname as Chu and were descendants of Ling Yin Ziwen.
When Ziwen was born, he was abandoned in a field, and a tiger nursed him.
Chu people called breast-feeding "gu" and tigers "yuzhan", so they named it "guyugan" with the courtesy name Ziwen.
The people of Chu called the tiger "Ban", and his son named him "Ban".
The Qin State subtracted the Chu State and moved between the Jin State and the Dai State, so they took Ban as their surname.
In the last years of Qin Shihuang's reign, Ban Yi took refuge in Loufan and raised thousands of horses, cattle and sheep.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the state imposed no restrictions on the common people. During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, Banshi dominated the border areas with wealth, went out and hunted, fluttered flags, played drums and played loudly, and died at the age of more than a hundred years old. Therefore, many people in the north used "一" as the character.
Ban Ru, the son of Ban Yi.
Ban Ru was praised by people in this state and county for his chivalrous and righteous actions.
Ban Ru's son is the squad leader and the official is the prefect of Shanggu.
Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became the eldest son county magistrate due to his outstanding talents.
Ban Hui's son Ban Kuang was elected as Xiaolian and served as a Lang. He accumulated merits and was promoted to the rank of Captain of Henong. Da Sinong repeatedly wrote letters saying that he had high merits and entered the court as the captain of Zuo Caoyue's cavalry school.
In the early years when he became emperor, his daughter entered the palace as Jieyu. He retired and returned to his hometown. His family wealth reached a thousand gold and he moved to Changling.
Later, Changling was abolished, and all the ministers and famous officials there moved to Chang'an.
Ban Kuang has three sons: Banbo, Banbo and Banzhi.
Banbo studied the Book of Songs with Shi Dan when he was young.
The general Wang Feng recommended Banbo as a suitable attendant. The emperor summoned Banbo in the banquet hall. He was handsome, recited and preached very well, and he was worshiped as a regular attendant.
At that time, the emperor was keen on studying. Zheng Kuanzhong and Zhang Yu lectured on "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" in the Jinhua Palace every morning and evening. The emperor Shao ordered Banbo to study.
After understanding the righteousness, he discussed the similarities and differences with Xu Shang and was promoted to the captain of Fengche.
After the end of the year, the lecture activities in Jinhua Palace were suspended, and Ban Bo left the palace to associate with Wang and Xu's descendants. Living among the dandies was not his preference.
Because Ban's ancestral home was originally in the northern border, Ban Bo was born to be generous and generous, and repeatedly requested to be sent as an envoy to the Huns.
During the Heping period, Chanyu came to see him, and the emperor ordered Banbo to greet him at the foot of the fortress with amulets.
It happened that the Shi family and the Li family in Dingxiang area killed people because of their personal grievances, and also killed the officials who were chasing them. Banbo wrote a letter expressing his willingness to be temporarily appointed as the prefect of Dingxiang for a month.
The emperor sent his lieutenant general Wang Shun to come and escort Shanyu in place of Banbo. At the same time, he brought a seal and seal ribbon and appointed Banbo as the prefect of Dingxiang on the spot.
The people in Dingxiang heard that Banbo had always been of high status, was young, and had requested to govern this difficult-to-govern place. They were worried that he would use threats when he first arrived, and both officials and people were afraid of him.
summary:
The Ban family, originally sharing the surname of Chu, descended from Ling Yin Ziwen. Ziwen, abandoned as an infant, was nursed by a tiger, leading to his name "Guyugan" from Chu words for nursing and tiger. The tiger was called "Ban," and his son adopted this as their surname. After Qin conquered Chu, the family moved between Jin and Dai, taking Ban as their surname. During the late Qin, Ban Yi fled to Loufan, amassing livestock. In early Han, the Bans dominated border areas with wealth, hunting and living lavishly, with Ban Yi living over a hundred years. Ban Yi's son, Ban Ru, was praised for chivalry. His son, the squad leader, became Shanggu Prefect. Ban Hui, the squad leader's son, became a county magistrate. Ban Kuang, Ban Hui's son, served as a Lang and rose to Captain of Henong, later retiring with wealth to Changling. He had three sons: Banbo, Banbo, and Banzhi. Banbo studied the Book of Songs, was recommended as an attendant, and became a regular attendant. He lectured on classics, was promoted to Fengche Captain, and later requested to govern Dingxiang, where he captured all thieves within ten days. He was summoned back, suffered a stroke, and died at thirty-eight.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
太后曰： 不宣德美，宜与言灾害者异罚。
且后宫贤家，我所哀也。
闳独下狱诛。
稚惧，上书陈恩谢罪，愿归相印，入补延陵园郎，太后许焉。
食故禄终身。
由是班氏不显莽朝，亦不罹咎。
初，成帝性宽，进入直言，是以王音、翟方进等绳法举过，而刘向、杜邺、王章、朱云之徒肆意犯上，故自帝师安昌侯，诸舅大将军兄弟及公卿大夫、后宫外属史、许之家有贵宠者，莫不被文伤诋。
唯谷永尝言： 建始、河平之际，许、班之贵，倾动前朝，熏灼四方，赏赐无量，空虚内臧，女宠至极，不可尚矣；今之后起，无所不飨，仁倍于前。
永指以驳饥赵、李，亦无间云。
稚生彪。
彪字叔皮，幼与从兄嗣共游学，家有赐书，内足于财，好古之士自远方至，父党扬子云以下莫不造门。
嗣虽修儒学，然贵老、严之术。
桓生欲借其书，嗣报曰： 若夫严子者，绝圣弃智，修生保真，清虚淡泊，归之自然，独师友造化，而不为世俗所役者也。
渔钓于一壑，则万物不奸其志，栖迟于一丘，则天下不易其乐。
不絓圣人之罔，不嗅骄君之饵，荡然肆志，谈者不得而名焉，故可贵也。
今吾子已贯仁谊之羁绊，系名声之缰锁，伏周、孔之轨躅，驰颜、闵之极挚，既系挛于世教矣，何用大道为自炫耀？
昔有学步于邯郸者，曾未得其仿佛，又复失其故步，遂匍匐而归耳！恐似此类，故不进。
嗣之行己持论如此。
叔皮唯圣人之道然后尽心焉。
年二十，遭王莽败，世祖即位于冀州。
translation: 
The Queen Mother said: Those who do not promote virtue should be treated differently from those who talk about disasters.
Moreover, Ban Zhi is a virtuous person, and I sympathize with her family.
Gongsun Hong was thrown into prison alone and executed.
Ban Zhi was greatly frightened and wrote a letter of gratitude and apology, expressing his willingness to return the seal and join the court as Yanlingyuan Lang. The Queen Mother agreed.
Spend your life enjoying your original salary.
Therefore, the Ban family was not prominent during Wang Mang's time, and there were no major disasters.
At first, Emperor Cheng was generous by nature and could listen to straightforward opinions, so Wang Yin, Zhai Fangjin and others discussed the emperor's faults according to the law, but Liu Xiang, Du Ye, Wang Zhang, Zhu Yun and others offended the emperor wantonly. Therefore, everyone from the emperor's teacher Anchanghou, the emperor's uncle, the generals, brothers, ministers, ministers, relatives in the harem, Shi, Xu and other families who were favored were slandered.
Only Gu Yong once said: At the time of Jianshi and Heping, the dignitaries of the Xu family and the Ban family moved the previous dynasty, showing off in all directions, and gave excessive rewards, which made the inner palace empty. The favor you have received has reached the limit, and it is impossible to exceed it. But now, the favor received by the rising family cannot even be enjoyed by God, and it is ten times higher than the favor received by the Ban and Xu family mentioned earlier.
What Gu Yong said was intended to ridicule the Zhao family and the Li family, and did not criticize the Ban family.
Ban Zhi's son is Ban Biao.
Ban Biao, also known as Shupi, studied with his cousin Ban Si since he was a child. Ban's family has books given by the emperor, and the family is rich in wealth. Many scholars come from far away, including Bai Yangxiong, a friend of his father's generation, who does not fail to visit him.
Although Ban Si studied Confucianism, he admired the learning of Lao and Zhuang.
Huan Sheng wanted to borrow his books, and the class heir replied: People like Zhuangzi abandon the sage and wisdom, practice life and maintain their true energy, are quiet and nihilistic, and do not pursue fame and fortune. They return all things to nature. They only influence each other between teachers and friends, and are not manipulated by worldly forces.
If he fishes in a mountain ravine, then nothing in the world will be able to interfere with his will; if he lives in seclusion in a small mountain, nothing in the world will be able to change his happiness.
Not bound by saints, not tempted by people's kings and nobles, letting one's body indulge one's own will, people who talk about it find it difficult to name it, so it is very precious.
Now that you have been bound by benevolence and righteousness, you have tied the shackles of fame, you have convinced Zhou Gong and Confucius, you have spread the essence of Yan Hui and Min Ziqian, and you have been restrained by secular education, why do you need to show off by following the great ways of Lao and Zhuang?
In the past, a man went to Handan to learn how to walk, but he didn't succeed. Instead, he forgot the original way of walking, so he had to crawl back!
I'm worried that you will do the same, so I won't lend you the book.
This is how Ban Si behaves and expresses his opinions. Ban Biao only devoted himself to the way of saints.
At the age of twenty, Emperor Guangwu ascended the throne in Jizhou when Wang Mang was reduced.
summary:
Ban Zhen, knowledgeable and talented, served as Yilang and collated books. Ban Zhi, upright and clean, served as Huangmen Langzhong. During Wang Mang's rise, Ban Zhi avoided presenting carols, and the Ban family remained uninfluential but safe. Ban Zhi's son, Ban Biao, studied with his cousin Ban Si. Ban Si, a Confucian who admired Lao-Zhuang, refused to lend books, fearing Ban Biao would lose his way. Ban Biao devoted himself to sage teachings.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
若乃灵端符应，又可略闻矣。
初刘媪任高祖而梦与神遇，震电晦冥，有龙蛇之怪。
及其长而多灵，有异于众，是以王、武感物而折券，吕公睹形而进女；秦皇东游以厌其气，吕后望云而知所处；始受命则白蛇分，西入关则五星聚。
故淮阴、留侯谓之天授，非人力也。
历古今之得失，验行事之成败，稽帝王之世运，考五者之所谓，取舍不厌斯位，符端不同斯度，而苟昧于权利，越次妄据，外不量力，内不知命，则必丧保家之主，失天气之寿，遇折足之凶，伏鈇钺之诛。
英雄诚知觉寤，畏若祸戒，超然远览，渊然深识，收陵、婴之明分，绝信、布之觊觎，距逐鹿之瞽说，审神器之有授，毋贪不可几，为二母之所笑，则福祚流于子孙，天禄其永终矣。
知隗嚣终不寤，乃避地于河西。
河西大将军窦融嘉其美德，访问焉。
举茂材，为徐令，以病去官。
后数应三公之召。
仕不为禄，所如不合；学不为人，博而不俗；言不为华，述而不作。
有子曰固，弱冠而孤，作《幽通之赋》，以致命遂志。
其辞曰：
系高顼之玄胄兮，氏中叶之炳灵，由凯风而蝉蜕兮，雄朔野以飏声。
皇十纪而鸿渐兮，有羽仪于上京。
巨滔天而泯夏兮，考遘愍以行谣，终保已而贻则兮，里上仁之所庐。
translation: 
As for those auspicious and efficacious signs, I have probably heard about them.
At first, when she was pregnant with Emperor Gaozu, Liu Yu dreamed of intercourse with gods and men, thunder and lightning, dark clouds rolling, and strange things like dragons and snakes appearing.
When Gaozu grew up, he often had supernatural powers and was often different from ordinary people. Therefore, when Wang Lao and Wu Fu saw that Gaozu was possessed by a dragon when he was drunk, they wrote off all his wine debts. When Duke Lu saw Gaozu's strange appearance, he betrothed his daughter to him. Qin Shihuang stayed away in order to suppress the emperor's aura. Empress Lu knew where Gaozu was when she saw the clouds in the sky. When Emperor Gaozu was ordered to move to Lishan Road to slay the White Snake, and stationed in Guanzhong to the west, the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire and earth gathered together with Jingchen.
Therefore, both the Marquis of Huaiyin and the Marquis of Liu said that this was a gift from heaven, not a human effort.
Looking at the gains and losses of ancient and modern times, examining the success and failure of actions, examining the rise and fall of emperors in the past, and examining these five factors, if the choice is not commensurate with the status, the effective signs are different from this standard. If you are greedy for power and wealth, are uneasy about your duties and try to occupy a high position, do not know your own capabilities, and do not know the destiny, you will definitely not be able to protect your family, you will not be able to live a long life, you will encounter dangers as dangerous as a broken tripod, and you will be punished by being killed by iron.
The hero can truly understand this truth and wake up secretly. He is afraid of being condemned by heaven for his unreasonable actions. He has a far-sighted and thoughtful approach, and takes the approach of Wang Ling and Chen Ying who know their own duties, and eliminates the unreasonable actions of Han Xin and Yingbo to usurp the Han Dynasty. Think, if you don’t believe the lie that conquering the world can be achieved through conquest, understand that the emperor’s authority is naturally given by God, and don’t be greedy for things that are unattainable and be ridiculed by the two mothers Wang Ling and Chen Ying. This will extend the blessing to future generations and enjoy God-given blessings forever!
Knowing that Wei Xiao would never wake up, he fled to Hexi.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, appreciated his elegant conduct and went to visit him to discuss everything with him.
He was promoted to Maocai and served as Xu Ling, but he resigned from his official position because of illness.
After that, he was called upon by the Three Lords many times.
He is not careful about his salary when he is an official, so the place he goes to is not suitable for his purpose; his knowledge is not used by others, his knowledge is profound but not vulgar; his words are not flashy, and he talks but does not write.
Ban Biao had a son named Ban Gu. His father died when he was twenty years old. He wrote "Ode to You Tong" to express his aspirations by stating the good and bad fate.
The poem reads:
Ban Shifeng is a descendant of Zhuan Xiang. In the middle of his family's life, he showed great prominence in the Chu Kingdom. After the death of Chu, he left his homeland and became famous in the Jin and Dynasties in the north.
During the tenth reign of Emperor Mo, the officials were in high positions, and the banners and honor guards were displayed in the emperor's capital.
Wang Mang's crimes were so heinous that he almost killed the Han Dynasty. My father was in trouble and traveled far away, singing loudly. Finally, he saved himself and set an example for the people, escaping the evil like the benevolent people in ancient times.
summary:
During the chaos of Wang Mang's fall, Wei Xiao asked Ban Biao about the likelihood of another Warring States period. Ban Biao argued that the Han dynasty's centralized system prevented such fragmentation, and the people's hearts remained with Han. He wrote "The Theory of King's Mandate," asserting that the Liu family's rise was destined by heaven, not human effort. He fled to Hexi, where Dou Rong admired him. Ban Biao had a son, Ban Gu, who wrote "Ode to You Tong" to express his aspirations.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
观天罔之纮覆兮，实棐谌而相顺，谟先圣之大繇兮，亦邻德而助信。
虞《韶》美而仪凤兮，孔忘味于千载。
素文信而底麟兮，汉宾祚于异代。
精通灵而感物兮，神动气而入微。
养游睇而猿号兮，李虎发而石开。
非精诚其焉通兮，苟无实其孰信！
操末技犹必然兮，矧湛躬于道真！
登孔、颢而上下兮，纬群龙之所经，朝贞观而夕化兮，犹喧已而遗形，若胤彭而偕老兮，诉来哲以通情。
乱曰： 天造草昧，立性命兮，复心弘道，惟贤圣兮。
浑元运物，流不处兮，保身遗名，民之表兮。
舍生取谊，亦道用兮，忧伤夭物，忝莫痛兮！
昊尔太素，曷渝色兮？
尚粤其几，沦神城兮！
永平中为郎，典校秘书，专笃志于博学，以著述为业。
或讥以无功，又感东方朔、扬雄自谕以不遭苏、张、范、蔡之时，曾不折之以正道，明君子之所守，故聊复应焉。
其辞曰：
宾戏主人曰： 盖闻圣人有一定之论，列士有不易之分，亦云名而已矣。
故太上有立德，其次有立功。
夫德不得后身而特盛，功不得背时而独章，是以圣哲之治，栖栖皇皇，孔席不暧，墨突不黔。
由此言之，取舍者昔人之上务，著作者前列之余事耳。
今吾子幸游帝王之世，躬带冕之服，浮英华，湛道德，矕龙虎之文，旧矣。
卒不能摅首尾，奋翼鳞，振拔洿涂，跨腾风云，使见之者景骇，闻之者响震。
徒乐枕经籍书，纡体衡门，上无所蒂，下无所根。
独摅意乎宇宙之外，锐思于豪芒之内，潜神默记，恒以年岁。
translation: 
Guantian.com is grand and inclusive. It actually assists integrity to protect kindness and seeks the way of the sages to save the world. A virtuous person will have like-minded friends, and an honest person will definitely get help from others.
The beautiful music of Yu Shun's "Shao" attracted the phoenix to come to court, and even after a hundred years, Confucius forgot to listen to it.
King Su's articles showed etiquette and attracted Qilin, and the Han Dynasty pursued him in different generations.
Spiritual energy and magical power can move all things, and divine movement can reach subtle realms.
The ape raised by Ji took up his bow and turned his eyes, then howled, Li Guang's arrow shot and the stone opened.
How can one communicate with spiritual objects without sincerity? Who would believe it if there is no actual effect!
If you have mastered a small skill such as Yashe, you can still sense the Saruishi, not to mention being obsessed with the Dao!
From Confucius and Taihao until today, there have been many sages and sages in the Jingwei Heavenly Way. It's okay to die in the morning and evening, or forget about discarding your body. If I can live as long as Peng Zu and Lao Dan, I will tell those who come to me to express my deep love for you.
Luan said: Heaven created all things in the darkness and determined their lives. Only sages can do this by restoring their original intention and promoting the great road.
The vitality of heaven and earth moves all things, flowing around without stopping, preserving itself and leaving a good name, and setting an example for the people.
It is a great shame and pain to sacrifice one's life for righteousness and practice the Tao, but to be sorrowful because of external things!
If you stick to the good path and are not stained by popular customs, how can your color change?
If you guard the road and lead to seclusion, you will be as good as a god!
During the Yongping period, Ban Gu was appointed as Lang and was responsible for collating the royal collection of books. He concentrated on erudition and made writing his career.
Some people ridiculed that this had no practical use. At the same time, they felt that Dongfang Shuo, Yang Xiong and others thought they had not encountered the era when Su Qin, Zhang Yi, Fan Ju, and Cai Ze lived, and did not use upright principles to convince the other party and show the integrity of a gentleman, so I would like to answer those scoffers.
That article read:
The guest laughed at the host and said: I heard that sages have unshakable words and magi have unchangeable duties, but they only respect reputation.
Therefore, the sage must establish virtue, and secondly, meritorious service.
Virtue will not flourish especially after death, and merit will not be revealed if it is not at the right time. Therefore, the saint's actions are busy, coming and going. Confucius could not wait until the mat was warm while sitting, and Mozi could not wait until the chimney was blackened when he lived in peace.
It can be inferred from this that the implementation of morality is the primary task of the sages, and writing is only a minor matter for the sages.
Now you are lucky enough to be born in the era of sage, wearing loose clothes and broad belt, having a good reputation externally, high moral cultivation internally, and having good literary talent for a long time.
But it never raises its head and tail, flaps its wings and flutters its scales, transcends the mud, and soars above the wind and clouds, making people frightened when they see the shadow and terrified when they hear the sound.
In vain, I indulge in the classics with my head on my head, my body on my back with books, and I am resigned to living in a dilapidated old house, with no one to refer to me and no one to rely on.
Only meditate freely on the universe, think carefully in the details, and concentrate on memorizing silently, year after year.
summary:
During the Yongping period, Ban Gu served as Lang, collating books. When ridiculed for his focus on writing, he responded that in peaceful times, unlike the chaotic Warring States, one should not seek fame through deceit. He argued that the Han dynasty's stability made such pursuits unnecessary, and true virtue and writing were the proper path.

