Chunk 0: 
original: 
郑袤，字林叔，荥阳开封人也。
高祖众，汉大司农。
父泰，扬州刺史，有高名。
袤少孤，早有识鉴。
荀攸见之曰： 郑公业为不亡矣。
随叔父浑避难江东。
时华歆为豫章太守，浑往依之，歆素与泰善，抚养袤如己子。
年十七，乃还乡里。
性清正。
时济阴魏讽为相国掾，名重当世，袤同郡任览与结交。
袤以讽奸雄，终必为祸，劝览远之。
及讽败，论者称焉。
魏武帝初封诸子为侯，精选宾友，袤与徐干俱为临淄侯文学，转司隶功曹从事。
司空王朗辟为掾，袤举高阳许允、扶风鲁芝、东莱王基，朗皆命之，后咸至大位，有重名。
袤迁尚书郎。
出为黎阳令，吏民悦服。
太守班下属城，特见甄异，为诸县之最。
迁尚书右丞。
转济阴太守，下车旌表孝悌，敬礼贤能，兴立庠序，开诱后进。
调补大将军从事中郎，拜散骑常侍。
会广平太守缺，宣帝谓袤曰： 贤叔大匠垂称于阳平、魏郡，百姓蒙惠化。
且卢子家、王子雍继踵此郡，使世不乏贤，故复相屈。
袤在广平，以德化为先，善作条教，郡中爱之。
征拜侍中，百姓恋慕，涕泣路隅。
迁少府。
高贵乡公即位，袤与河南尹王肃备法驾奉迎于元城，封广昌亭侯。
徙光禄勋，领宗正。
毌丘俭作乱，景帝自出征之，百官祖送于城东，袤疾病不任会。
帝谓中领军王肃曰： 唯不见郑光禄为恨。
肃以语袤，袤自舆追帝，及于近道。
帝笑曰： 故知侯生必来也。
遂与袤共载，曰： 计将何先？
袤曰： 昔与俭俱为台郎，特所知悉。
其人好谋而不达事情，自昔建勋幽州，志望无限。
文钦勇而无算。
今大军出其不意，江、淮之卒锐而不能固，深沟高垒以挫其气，此亚夫之长也。
帝称善。
translation: 
Zheng Miao, courtesy name Uncle Lin, was a native of Kaifeng, Xingyang.
The great ancestor Zheng Zhong was the chief agricultural officer during the Han Dynasty.
His father, Zheng Tai, was the governor of Yangzhou during the Han Dynasty and had a good reputation.
Zheng Miao lost his father when he was young, and he was insightful and able to identify talents very early.
Xun You saw him and said, "Zheng Gongye seems to be still alive."
Zheng Miao fled to Jiangdong with his uncle Zheng Hun.
At that time, Hua Xin was the governor of Yuzhang, and Zheng Hun went to join him. Hua Xin had always been friendly with Zheng Tai and raised Zheng Miao as his own son.
Zheng Miao did not return to his hometown until he was seventeen years old.
Be an upright person.
At that time, Wei Xie, a native of Jiyin, was appointed as the prime minister of the country and was very famous. Ren Lan, who was in the same county as Zheng Yu, made friends with him.
Zheng Miao believed that Wei Xi was a traitor who would eventually cause disaster, and advised Ren Lan to stay away from him.
When Wei Xi was defeated, everyone who discussed it praised Zheng Mao.
When Emperor Wu of Wei first made his sons princes, he carefully selected their retainers and friends. Zheng Miao and Xu Qian both served as Marquis of Linzi, and later became Sili Gongcao.
Wang Lang of Sikong invited him to serve as subordinate officials. Zheng Mian recommended Xu Yun from Gaoyang, Lu Zhi from Fufeng, and Wang Ji from Donglai. Wang Lang appointed them all. Later, they all became high-ranking officials with high reputations.
Zheng Miao was promoted to Shangshu Lang.
Later, he was appointed as Li Yangling, and his subordinates and people were sincerely convinced.
The prefect evaluated subordinate officials. After screening, Zheng Miao stood out and was ranked first among the county magistrates.
He was promoted to Minister Youcheng.
He was appointed as the prefect of Jiyin. When he took office, he praised the filial and brotherly people, respected the talented and talented people, and established schools to educate the younger generations.
He was transferred to the rank of general to serve as a lieutenant and a regular attendant on the casual cavalry.
When there was a vacancy for the governor of Guangping, Emperor Xuan said to Zheng Miao: Your uncle will be a great craftsman. Zheng Hun will have a good reputation in Yangping and Wei counties, and the people will be favored and influenced.
Moreover, Lu Zisai and Wang Ziyong continued to manage this county, so that there was no shortage of virtuous people from generation to generation, so I asked you to serve again.
When Zheng Miao was in Guangping, he put education first and was good at using laws and regulations to manage people. The people loved him.
He was recruited as a servant, and the people respected him and were reluctant to let him go. They cried and saw him off by the roadside.
Promoted to Shaofu.
When Gaogui Xianggong came to the throne, Zheng Miao and his mother Yin Wangsheng prepared chariots and horses to greet him in Yuanqiu, and granted him the title of Marquis of Ludantai.
He was appointed Guang Luxun and led Zongzheng.
Guanqiu Jian made a rebellion, and Emperor Jing personally conquered it. Hundreds of officials gathered in the city to offer sacrifices to him as a road god to see him off. Zheng Miao was ill and could not arrive.
Emperor Jing said to Wang Su, the leader of the army: It's just a pity that I didn't see Yinmao.
Wang Su told Zheng Miao, and Zheng Miao personally drove the car to chase Emperor Jing and caught up with him not far away.
Emperor Jing smiled and said: I knew you would definitely come like Hou Sheng.
So he and Zheng Miao rode in the car together and asked him: What strategy should I use first?
Zheng Miao replied: Li Qiujian and I were both ministers in the past, so I knew him very well.
This person likes strategies but does not know the truth. Since his past achievements in Youzhou, his ambitions and desires are unlimited.
Wen Qin is brave but has no plans.
Now the king's army was surprised, and the Jiang and Huai soldiers were energetic but unable to hold on. We dug deep ditches and built high fortresses to dampen their enthusiasm. This is what Yafuqu is best at.
Emperor Jing agreed.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
转太常。
高贵乡公议立明堂辟雍，精选博士，袤举刘毅、刘寔、程咸、庾峻，后并至公辅大位。
及常道乡公立，与议定策，进封安城乡侯，邑千户。
景元初，疾病失明，屡乞骸骨，不许。
拜光禄大夫。
五等初建，封密陵伯。
武帝践阼，进爵为侯。
虽寝疾十余年，而时贤并相推荐。
泰始中，诏曰： 光禄密陵侯袤，履行纯正，守道冲粹，退有清和之风，进有素丝之节，宜登三阶之曜，补衮职之阙。
今以袤为司空。
天子临轩，遣五官中郎将国坦就第拜授。
袤前后辞让，遣息称上送印绶，至于十数。
谓坦曰： 魏以徐景山为司空，吾时为侍中，受诏譬旨。
徐公语吾曰： 三公当上应天心，苟非其人，实伤和气，不敢以垂死之年，累辱朝廷也。 终于不就。
遵大雅君子之迹，可不务乎！
固辞，久之见许，以侯就第，拜仪同三司，置舍人官骑，赐床帐簟褥、钱五十万。
九年薨，时年八十五。
帝于东堂发哀，赐秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、绢布各百匹，以供丧事。
谥曰元。
有子六人，长子默嗣，次质、舒、诩、称、予，位并列卿。
默字思元。
起家秘书郎，考核旧文，删省浮秽。
中书令虞松谓曰： 而今而后，硃紫别矣。
转尚书考功郎，专典伐蜀事，封关内侯，迁司徒左长史。
武帝受禅，与太原郭奕俱为中庶子。
朝廷以太子官属宜称陪臣。默上言： 皇太子体皇极之尊，无私于天下。
宫臣皆受命天朝，不得同之籓国。
事遂施行。
出为东郡太守，值岁荒人饥，默辄开仓振给，乃舍都亭，自表待罪。
translation: 
Changing appointments is too common.
Gaogui Jinggong asked the ministers to discuss the establishment of Mingtang Piyong, carefully selected doctors, and promoted Liu Yi, Liu Shi, Cheng Xian, and Yu Jun. They all later reached the high positions of three ministers and assistant ministers.
When Changdao Xianggong became the monarch, because he participated in the discussion and support, he was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng Township and a thousand households in the city.
In the early years of Jingyuan, he became seriously ill and lost his sight. He requested to retire many times but was not approved.
Dr. Ren Guanglu.
When the fifth level of nobility was established, he was granted the title of Mi Lingbo.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and became a marquis.
Although he had been ill for more than ten years, he was highly recommended by wise men at that time.
During the Taishi period, the edict stated: "Guanglu Milinghou Yuan is a pure man, with a quiet and peaceful demeanor when he retires, and a pure and flawless moral integrity when he enters. He should ascend to the position of the Three Dukes to make up for the vacancies of the Duke."
Zheng Miao was appointed Sikong.
Emperor Wu walked to the front of the palace and sent the Fifth Palace Commander Guo Tan to Zheng Yuan's house to announce the decree.
Zheng Miao repeatedly refused and sent his son back to the official seal, going back and forth more than ten times.
He said to Guotan: Wei appointed Xu Jingshan as Sikong. I was the minister at that time, and I accepted Shao as an imperial edict.
Tugong said to me: "The three princes should be in accordance with the will of God. It would really hurt the harmony of the people if they were not allowed to do so. I did not dare to humiliate the court with someone who was about to die, so I finally refused to accept the appointment."
It is not acceptable to follow in the footsteps of an elegant gentleman!
He resolutely refused, and it was only after a long time that he was allowed to retire as a marquis. He was awarded the same ceremony as the three divisions, set up official guards, and was rewarded with bedding and money of 500,000 yuan.
He died in nine years, at the age of eighty-five.
The emperor held a funeral ceremony in Shutang and was rewarded with a coffin, a set of court clothes, a piece of daily clothes, 300,000 yuan in money, and 100 pieces of silk each to use for the funeral.
Mi Hao Yuan.
He has six sons, the eldest son Zheng Mo succeeds, and the second sons Zheng Zhi, Zheng Shu, Zheng Xu, Zheng Cheng and Zheng Yu all reach the rank of minister.
Zheng Mo's courtesy name is Siyuan.
When I first became a secretary, I revised old articles and deleted redundant and dirty words.
Zhongshu ordered Yu Song to say to him: From now on, there will be a difference between red and purple.
He was changed to Shangshu Kaogong Lang, who was responsible for the campaign against Shu. He was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei, and was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi.
When Emperor Wu of Jin accepted the concession from Emperor Wei, Zheng Mo and Guo Yi, a native of Taiyuan, were both concubines.
The imperial court believed that the crown prince's officials should be called accomplices, and Zheng Mo wrote in an edict: The crown prince embodies the nobility of the emperor and is selfless to the world.
Palace ministers are all under orders from the imperial court and cannot be equated with a feudal state.
The suggestion was adopted.
When he was appointed as the prefect of Sedeng, it was a time of famine and people were hungry. He opened a warehouse to help the people. Then he lived in the county seat and asked for punishment.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
朝廷嘉默忧国，诏书褒叹，比之汲黯。
班告天下，若郡县有此比者，皆听出给。
入为散骑常侍。
初，帝以贵公子当品，乡里莫敢与为辈，求之州内，于是十二郡中正佥共举默。
文帝与袤书曰： 小兒得厕贤子之流，愧有窍贤之累。
及武帝出祀南郊，诏使默骖乘，因谓默曰： 卿知何以得骖乘乎？
选人得才，济世之道。
居官久职，政事之宜。
明慎黜陟，劝戒之由。
崇尚儒素，化导之本。
如此而已矣。
帝善之。
后以父丧去官，寻起为廷尉。
是时鬲令袁毅坐交通货赂，大兴刑狱。
在朝多见引逮，唯默兄弟以洁慎不染其流。
迁太常。
时仆射山涛欲举一亲亲为博士，谓默曰： 卿似尹翁归，令吾不敢复言。
默为人敦重，柔而能整，皆此类也。
及齐王攸当之国，下礼官议崇锡典制。
博士祭酒曹志等并立异议，默容过其事，坐免。
寻拜大鸿胪。
遭母丧，旧制，既葬还职，默自陈恳至，久而见许。
遂改法定令，听大臣终丧，自默始也。
服阕，为大司农，转光禄勋。
太康元年卒，时年六十八，谥曰成。
尚书令卫瓘奏： 默才行名望，宜居论道，五升九卿，位未称德，宜赠三司。
而后父杨骏先欲以女妻默子豫，默曰： 吾每读《隽不疑传》，常想其人。
畏远权贵，奕世所守。
遂辞之。骏深为恨。
至此，骏议不同，遂不施行。
默宽冲博爱，谦虚温谨，不以才地矜物，事上以礼，遇下以和，虽僮竖厮养不加声色，而犹有嫌怨，故士君子以为居世之难。
子球。
球字子瑜。
translation: 
The imperial court believed that this was an act of concern for the country, and Xia Shao praised him and compared him to Ji An.
The imperial court also announced to the world that if any county or county has such a situation, it will be dealt with accordingly.
He was summoned to serve as a regular attendant on Sanqi.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu believed that the clan's children should be ranked according to their rank, and the villagers did not dare to be of the same rank as them, so they sought help from the state, so the Zhongzheng of the twelve counties jointly recommended Zheng Mo.
Emperor Wen wrote to Zheng Miao: I am really ashamed that I can be among the virtuous people.
When Emperor Wu was worshiping heaven in the southern suburbs, he issued an edict to let Zheng Mo accompany him. He said to Zheng Mo: Do ​​you know why I asked you to accompany me?
It turns out that the state recommends you to the same level, which often impairs fair evaluation.
So when asked about political affairs, Qian Yao said: Diligent farming is the foundation of the country, and selecting talents is the way to save the world.
A long term of office is beneficial to political affairs. Advance and retreat cautiously to facilitate admonishment.
Respecting the true meaning of Confucianism is the foundation of education and guidance.
That's all.
Emperor Wu agreed.
Later, he resigned because of his father's funeral and was soon promoted to Tingwei.
At that time, the imperial court ordered Yuan Yi to commit bribery and sentenced him to prison.
Many officials in the government were implicated, but brother Zheng Mo was the only one who stayed clean.
Promotions come too often.
At that time, Pushe Shantao wanted to recommend a relative to be a doctor, and said to Zheng Mo: You seem to be Yin Wenggui, so I dare not say anything more.
Zheng Mo is an honest and dignified person, soft yet strong, and this is generally the case.
When Sima You, King of Qi, was about to entrust the state, he asked the ceremonial officials to discuss the rules and regulations of Chongci.
The doctor's offer of wine to Cao Zhi and others went against Sima You's wishes. Zheng Mo did not investigate further and was dismissed from office because he was implicated and found guilty.
Soon he was appointed Dahonglu.
When his mother passed away, as usual, he had to come back to serve after the funeral. Zheng Mo begged not to come back, but it took a long time for him to be allowed.
So the law was changed and the ministers were allowed to remain in mourning until their period of mourning expired. This started from Zheng Mo.
After the period of mourning expired, he was appointed as Da Si Nong and then as Guang Luxun.
He died in the first year of Taikang at the age of sixty-eight, and his name was Mi.
Shangshu ordered Wei Guan to report: Zheng Mo is highly respected and should be appointed as the Third Duke. However, he served as the Nine Ministers five times and did not fully demonstrate his virtue. He should be granted the posthumous title of Third Duke.
The queen's father, Yang Jun, originally wanted to marry his daughter to Zheng Mo's son Zheng Yu. Zheng Mo said: Every time I read "Juan Buyi Biography", I often think about this person.
Fearing and staying away from people in positions of power is something we have to abide by for generations.
So he declined. Yang Jun was very jealous.
Therefore, he disagreed and the matter was not implemented.
Zheng Mo was generous and gentle, full of love, modest and prudent, and did not look down on others with his talent or family status. He was respectful to his superiors and courteous to his subordinates. He did not get angry even with his domestic servants, but there was still estrangement and resentment, so the scholar-bureaucrats thought it was difficult to live in society.
Zheng Mo's son Zheng Qiu.
Zheng Qiu's courtesy name is Ziyu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
少辟宰府，入侍二宫。
成都王为大将军，起义讨赵王伦，球自顿丘太守为右长史，以功封平寿公。
累迁侍中、尚书、散骑常侍、中护军、尚书右仆射，领吏部。
永嘉二年卒，追赠金紫光禄大夫，谥曰元。
球弟豫，永嘉末为尚书。
李胤，字宣伯，辽东襄平人也。
祖敏，汉河内太守，去官还乡里，辽东太守公孙度欲强用之，敏乘轻舟浮沧海，莫知所终。
胤父信追求积年，浮海出塞，竟无所见，欲行丧制服，则疑父尚存，情若居丧而不聘娶。
后有邻居故人与其父同年者亡，因行丧制服。
燕国徐邈与之同州里，以不孝莫大于无后，劝使娶妻。
既生胤，遂绝房室，恆如居丧礼，不堪其忧，数年而卒。
胤既幼孤，母又改行，有识之后，降食哀戚，亦以丧礼自居。
又以祖不知存亡，设木主以事之。
由是以孝闻。
容貌质素，颓然若不足者，而知度沈邃，言必有则。
初仕郡上计掾，州辟部从事、治中，举孝廉，参镇北军事。
迁乐平侯相，政尚清简。
入为尚书郎，迁中护军司马、吏部郎，铨综廉平。
赐爵关中侯，出补安丰太守。
文帝引为大将军从事中郎，迁御史中丞，恭恪直绳，百官惮之。
伐蜀之役，为西中郎将、督关中诸军事。
后为河南尹，封广陆伯。
泰始初，拜尚书，进爵为侯。
胤奏以为： 古者三公坐而论道，内参六官之事，外与六卿之教，或处三槐，兼听狱讼，稽疑之典，谋及卿士。
translation: 
When he was young, he was recruited by the Prime Minister's Office and served in Shu Palace.
The king of Chengdu was appointed as a general and launched an army to attack Sima Lun, the king of Zhao. Zheng Qiu was changed from the governor of Dunqiu to the post of You Changshi, and was named Pingshou Gong for his merits.
He was promoted many times and served as Shizhong, Shangshu, Sanqi Changshi, Zhonghujun, Shangshu Youpushe, and led the official department.
He died in the second year of Yongjia, and was posthumously named Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, with the title of Yuan.
Zheng Qiu's younger brother Zheng Yu served as minister in the last years of Yongjia.
Li Yin, whose courtesy name was Xuanbo, was from Xiangping, Liaodong.
Grandfather Li Min was the governor of Hanoi during the Han Dynasty. He resigned and returned to his hometown. Gongsun Du, the governor of Liaodong, wanted to force him to become an official. He drifted into the sea in a small boat and disappeared without a trace.
His son Li Xin has been looking for him for many years, crossing the sea and outside the Great Wall, but has never found him. He wants to mourn, but doubts that he is still alive, so he feels like he is mourning and does not want to get married.
Later, because a neighbor and an old friend of the same age as his father died, he also began to mourn.
Xu Miao, a native of Yan State who lived with him, persuaded him to marry him on the grounds that it was extremely unfilial to have no offspring.
After giving birth to Li Yin, he cut off contact with his wife as if in mourning. He was overly sad and died a few years later.
Li Yin lost his father when he was young, and his mother remarried. When he became an adult, he went on a diet and was sad, saying that he was in mourning.
Because the life and death of my grandfather were unknown, a wooden tablet was set up to worship him.
Therefore, he is famous for his filial piety.
The appearance is unmodified and weak, but he is knowledgeable, magnanimous and true to his word.
At the beginning, Li Yin was the chief planner of the county and state. He was requisitioned from the prefecture to work in the ministry and govern the country. He was promoted to Xiaolian and participated in the military affairs of Zhenbei.
He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Leping and advocated simplicity and simplicity in his administration.
He was summoned to serve as Shangshu Lang, and he was changed to Sima of the Central Guards Army and Minister of Civil Affairs to select officials who were fair and honest.
He was given the title of Marquis of Guanzhong and appointed as the prefect of Anfeng.
Emperor Wen used him as a general to serve as a lieutenant, and changed his position to a censor, Zhongcheng. He enforced the law impartially, and all officials were afraid of him.
When he conquered Shu, he was appointed as General Xizhong Lang and in charge of all military affairs in Guanzhong.
Later he served as Yin of Henan and was granted the title of Guanglu Bo.
In the early years of Taishi, he was appointed as Shangshu and became a Marquis.
Li Yin's memorial says: In ancient times, the Three Dukes sat down to discuss Taoism, participating in the affairs of the six officials internally, and participating in the teachings of the Six Armies outside. They were in the position of the Three Dukes, and they also heard cases, examined difficult laws, and discussed with ministers.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
陛下圣德钦明，垂心万机，猥发明诏，仪刑古式，虽唐、虞畴谘，周文翼翼，无以加也。
自今以往，国有大政，可亲延群公，询纳谠言。
其军国所疑，延诣省中，使侍中、尚书谘论所宜。
若有疾病，不任觐会，临时遣侍臣讯访。 诏从之。
迁吏部尚书仆射，寻转太子少傅。
诏以胤忠允高亮，有匪躬之节，使领司隶校尉。
胤屡自表让，忝傅储宫，不宜兼监司之官。
武帝以二职并须忠贤，故每不许。
咸宁初，皇太子出居东宫，帝以司录事任峻重，而少傅有旦夕辅导之务，胤素羸，不宜久劳之，转拜侍中，加特进。
俄迁尚书令，侍中、特进如故。
胤虽历职内外，而家至贫俭，兒病无以市药。
帝闻之，赐钱十万。
其后帝以司徒旧丞相之职，诏以胤为司徒。
在位五年，简亮持重，称为任职。
以吴会初平，大臣多有勋劳，宜有登进，乃上疏逊位。
帝不听，遣侍中宣旨，优诏敦谕，绝其章表。
胤不得已，起视事。
太康三年薨，诏遣御史持节监丧致祠，谥曰成。
皇太子命舍人王赞诔之，文义甚美。
帝后思胤清节，诏曰： 故司徒李胤，太常彭灌，并履忠清俭，身没，家无余积，赐胤家钱二百万、谷千斛，灌家半之。
三子，固、真长、修。
固字万基，散骑郎，先胤卒，固子志嗣爵。
志字彦道，历位散骑侍郎、建威将军、阳平太守。
真长位至太仆卿。
修黄门侍郎、太弟中庶子。
卢钦，字子若，范阳涿人也。
祖植，汉侍中。
父毓，魏司空。
世以儒业显。
translation: 
Your Majesty is a wise man who manages all matters day by day, issues many edicts, and follows ancient laws. Even though Tang and Yu visited and asked for help, Zhou's writings were rigorous, but he could not catch up.
From now on, when there are important matters in the country, you can personally summon the princes to ask for the correct advice.
When encountering difficulties, it can be extended to Taiwan Province and let the ministers and ministers express their opinions.
If you are ill and do not come, you can temporarily send a close minister to inquire. The emperor issued an edict and agreed.
He was promoted to the position of Pushe, Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and soon he was promoted to Prince Shaofu.
Because of his high integrity, he was appointed as the captain of Sili School.
Li Yin repeatedly stated that he was worthy of being the prince's master and was not suitable to serve as a supervisor.
Emperor Wu believed that those holding these two positions must be loyal and wise, so he disagreed every time.
In the early years of Xianning, the crown prince came to live in the East Palace. Emperor Wu thought that the affairs of the Sili school captain were heavy, and the young master had to tutor the crown prince in the morning and evening. Li Yin had always been in weak health and should not be tired for a long time, so he was changed to serve in the imperial palace and was promoted to special rank.
Soon he was appointed as the Minister of Secretariat, and Shizhong and Tejin remained as before.
Although Li Yin had held official positions inside and outside the court, his family was very poor and frugal. His son was sick and had no money to buy medicine.
When Emperor Wu heard about it, he rewarded him with a hundred thousand yuan.
Later, Emperor Wu believed that there was a Situ in the position of prime minister in the past, and Li Yin was appointed Situ in Xia Shao.
He has been in office for five years, and he is quiet, prudent and very competent.
On the grounds that Wu Hui had just been pacified and many ministers had meritorious service and should be promoted, Shangshu requested to resign.
Emperor Wu refused to listen and sent his servants to announce the decree. He refused to go to the throne and issued a thick edict to urge him.
Li Yin had no choice but to come out to deal with political affairs.
When Taikang passed away in the third year of his life, Emperor Wu issued an edict to send censors to monitor the funeral procession and mourn him, and the title of Mi was established.
The crown prince asked Wang Zan, the prince of the family, to write a condolence article. The writing style and content were very beautiful.
Emperor Wu later remembered Li Yin's noble integrity and told Shao: The late Situ Li Yin, Taichang Peng Guan, was loyal, noble and frugal. After his death, his family had no money left. He rewarded Li Yin's family with two million yuan and one thousand dendrobiums of grain, while Peng Guan's family was given half of it.
Three sons: Li Gu, Li Zhenchang, and Li Xiu.
Li Gu, whose courtesy name was Wanji, served as a Sanqi Lang. He died before Li Yin, and his son Li Zhi inherited the title.
Li Zhi, whose courtesy name was Yandao, served successively as Minister of Sanqi, General Jianwei, and Grand Administrator of Yangping.
Chief Li Zhen arrives at Taipuqing.
Li Xiu was appointed as Huangmen's minister and his concubine.
Lu Qin, named Ziruo, was from Fanyang Zhuo.
His grandfather Lu Zhi was a minister during the Han Dynasty.
His father, Lu Yu, served as Sikong during the Wei Dynasty.
Confucianism has been prominent for generations.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
钦清淡有远识，笃志经史，举孝廉，不行，魏大将军曹爽辟为掾。
爽弟尝有所属请，钦白爽子弟不宜干犯法度，爽深纳之，而罚其弟。
除尚书郎。
爽诛，免官。
后为侍御史，袭父爵大利亭侯，累迁琅邪太守。
宣帝为太傅，辟从事中郎，出为阳平太守，迁淮北都督、伏波将军，甚有称绩。
征拜散骑常侍、大司农，迁吏部尚书，进封大梁侯。
武帝受禅，以为都督沔北诸军事、平南将军、假节，给追锋轺卧车各一乘、第二驸马二乘、骑具刀器、御府人马铠等，及钱三十万。
钦在镇宽猛得中，疆埸无虞。
入为尚书仆射，加侍中、奉车都尉，领吏部。
以清贫，特赐绢百匹。
钦举必以材，称为廉平。
咸宁四年卒，诏曰： 钦履道清正，执德贞素。
文武之称，著于方夏。
入跻机衡，惟允庶事。
肆勤内外，有匪躬之节。
不幸薨没，朕甚悼之。
其赠卫将军、开府仪同三司，赐秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭、布五十匹、钱三十万。
谥曰元。
又以钦忠清高洁，不营产业，身没之后，家无所庇，特赐钱五十万，为立第舍。
复下诏曰： 故司空王基、卫将军卢钦、领典军将军杨嚣，并素清贫，身没之后，居无私积。
顷者饥馑，闻其家大匮，其各赐谷三百斛。
钦历宰州郡，不尚功名，唯以平理为务。
禄俸散之亲故，不营赀产。
动循礼典，妻亡，制庐杖，终丧居外。
所著诗赋论难数十篇，名曰《小道》。
子浮嗣。
浮字子云，起家太子舍人。
病疽截手，遂废。
然朝廷器重之，以为国子博士、祭酒、秘书监，皆不就。
钦弟珽字子笏，卫尉卿。
珽子志。
志字子道，初辟公府掾、尚书郎，出为鄴令。
translation: 
Lu Qin was indifferent and far-sighted, specializing in classics and history. He was promoted as a filial and honest man. However, if he did not leave, Cao Shuang, the general of Wei, recruited him as a subordinate official.
Cao Shuang's younger brother once had some instructions. Lu Qin told them that they should act in accordance with the law. Cao Shuang strongly agreed and punished his younger brother.
Served as Shangshu Lang.
Cao Shuang was killed and Lu Qin was dismissed from office.
Later, he became a censor, inherited his father's title of Marquis of Daliting, and was promoted to the prefect of Langxie many times.
When Emperor Xuan was appointed as Taifu, he was recruited as a Zhonglang and was appointed as Yangping Prefect. He was promoted to the governor of Huaibei and the general of Fubo. He had great political achievements.
He was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and a great minister of agriculture. He was promoted to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and was granted the title of Marquis of Liang Dynasty.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and appointed Lu Qin as the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Mianbei, General Pingnan, and Jiejie. He also gave Zhuifeng Tao a sleeping chariot each, two horses for the second son-in-law, riding equipment, knives, mirrors and armor for the imperial men, horses, etc., as well as 300,000 yuan in money.
Lu Qin was generous and fierce in the military town, and the border areas were safe and sound.
He was summoned to serve as a servant of the minister, a servant, a captain of the chariot, and the leader of the official department.
Because he was poor, he was given a hundred pieces of silk.
Lu Qin is a talented person and enjoys the reputation of being honest and fair.
Xianning died in the fourth year. The edict said: Lu Qin followed the right path and was honest and upright.
Excellent in both civil and military affairs, he is famous in China.
Keep secrets in hand and be fair in dealing with matters.
Work diligently both internally and externally, and do your best.
I am devastated by his tragic passing.
As a posthumous gift to General Wei and the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, he was given a coffin, a set of court clothes, a piece of regular clothes, 50 pieces of cloth, and 300,000 yuan in money.
Mi Hao Yuan.
Because Lu Qin was loyal and noble, and did not run any property. After his death, his family had no real estate, so he was given a special reward of 500,000 yuan to build a house.
He also issued an edict saying: The late King Ji of Sikong, General Lu Qin of the Wei Army, and Yang Xiao, the general of the Lingdian Army, have always been poor. After their deaths, their families had no money left.
There has been a famine in Zha recently, and I heard that these families were particularly in need, so each of them was given three hundred dendrobiums of grain.
Lu Qin served as a local official successively, not advocating fame, but only aiming at fair governance.
The salary is distributed to relatives and old friends, and the family property is not managed.
According to the etiquette and regulations, the wife passed away, built a shabby house, and completed the mourning outside.
He has written dozens of poems, poems and essays, and the title of the book is "Xiao Dao".
Heir to son Louvre.
Lufu, whose courtesy name is Ziyun, first gave up his life to the prince.
A poisonous sore on his hand was amputated, leaving him disabled.
But the imperial court valued him very much and asked him to serve as a doctor of the imperial family, a wine minister, and a secretary-supervisor, but he refused.
Lu Qin's younger brother Lu Jue, also known as Zihu, was appointed as Weiweiqing.
Lu Jin, the son of Lu Cui.
Lu Zhi, whose courtesy name was Zidao, was initially recruited as a public official and a minister, and later served as Yeling.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
成都王颖之镇鄴也，爱其才量，委以心膂，遂为谋主。
齐王冏起义，遣使告颖。
颖召志计事，志曰： 赵王无道，肆行篡逆，四海人神，莫不愤怒。
今殿下总率三军，应期电发，子来之众，不召自至。
扫夷凶逆，必有征无战。
然兵事至重，圣人所慎。
宜旌贤任才，以收时望。
颖深然之，改选上佐，高辟掾属，以志为谘议参军，仍补左长史，专掌文翰。
颖前锋都督赵骧为伦所败，士众震骇，议者多欲还保朝歌。
志曰： 今我军失利，敌新得胜，必有轻易陵轹之情，若顿兵不进，三军畏衄，惧不可用。
且战何能无胜负，宜更选精兵，星行倍道，出贼不意，此用兵之奇也。
颖从之。
及伦败，志劝颖曰： 齐王众号百万，与张泓等相持不能决，大王迳得济河，此之大勋，莫之与比，而齐王今当与大王共辅朝政。
志闻两雄不俱处，功名不并立，今宜因太妃微疾，求还定省，推崇齐王，徐结四海之心，此计之上也。
颖纳之，遂以母疾还籓，委重于冏。
由是颖获四海之誉，天下归心。
朝廷封志为武强侯，加散骑常侍。
及河间王颙纳李含之说，欲内除二王，树颖储副，遣报颖，颖将应之，志正谏，不从。
及冏灭，颖遥执期权，遂怀觖望之心。
以长沙王乂在内，不得恣其所欲，密欲去乂。
时荆州有张昌之乱，颖表求亲征，朝廷许之。
会昌等平，乃回兵以讨乂。
志谏曰： 公前有复皇祚之大勋，及事平，归功于齐，辞九锡之赏，不当朝政之权，振阳翟饥人，葬黄桥白骨，皆盛德之事，四海之人莫不荷赖矣。
逆寇纵肆，猾扰荆、楚，今公扫清群难，南土以宁，振旅而旋，顿军关外，文服入朝，此霸王者之事也。
颖不纳。
translation: 
When Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was guarding Ye, he liked his talents and entrusted him to his confidants, so he became the mastermind.
King Sima Jian of Qi raised troops and sent envoys to inform Sima Ying.
Sima Ying summoned Lu Zhi for discussion, and Lu Zhi said: King Zhao is tyrannical and willfully rebels, and everyone in the world hates him.
Now His Highness is in charge of the three armies, and he responds to sudden emergencies on a regular basis.
Those who seek to suppress rebellion will flee without a fight.
However, military matters are of great importance and are a matter of caution for saints.
The virtuous should be commended and valued, so that they can be popular among the public.
Sima Ying strongly agreed with him, re-selected his staff, hired high-level subordinate officials, enlisted Lu Zhi as a consultant to join the army, and appointed Zuo Changshi as his replacement, in charge of documents.
Sima Ying's forward commander Zhao Xiang was defeated by Sima Lun. The soldiers were frightened and most people advocated surrendering to Chaoge.
Lu Zhi said: Now that our army is defeated and the enemy has just won, they will surely relax their vigilance and become arrogant. If we stand still, the three armies will be afraid of failure. I am worried that they will not be able to use it.
Moreover, how can there be no victory or defeat in a war? We should choose elite troops to travel under the stars and night to catch the enemy by surprise. This is a clever strategy in using troops.
Sima Ying obeyed him.
Sima Lun was defeated, Lu Zhi advised Sima Ying: The King of Qi is known as a millionaire, and he is at loggerheads with Zhang Hong and others. His Highness crossed the Yellow River directly. This is a great achievement. No one can compare with His Highness, but now the King of Qi has to co-administrate the government with His Highness.
I heard that two heroes cannot coexist, and fame cannot coexist. Now it is best to ask the concubine to go back to visit her because she has a minor illness, to praise the king of Qi, and to slowly win over the people of the world. This is the best policy.
Sima Ying adopted his suggestion, so she returned to the feudal country on the grounds that her mother was ill, and handed over the important task to Sima Tong.
As a result, it has received widespread praise and people's aspiration.
The imperial court granted Lu Hu the title of Dadanzhao, and added casual cavalry as regular attendants.
Sima Xian, the king of Hejian, adopted Li Han's suggestion and wanted to eliminate the two kings and make Sima Ying the crown prince. He sent someone to report to Sima Ying. Sima Ying was about to agree, but Lu Zhijin tried to stop him and refused to listen.
When Sima Gang was destroyed, Sima Ying controlled the government and became ambitious.
Because Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was involved, he could not do whatever he wanted and wanted to get rid of him secretly.
At that time, there was a rebellion by Zhang Chang in Jingzhou, and Sima Ying petitioned for a personal expedition, and the court agreed.
After Zhang Chang and others were destroyed, he returned to attack Simocong.
Lu Jinjin admonished him and said: "You have made great achievements in restoring national unification in the past. When the situation is settled, you should attribute it to the King of Qi. You will reject the reward of Nine Tins and give up political power. You will help the hungry people in Zhai, Yangzhou, and bury the bones of Huangqiao. These are all great benevolent deeds. There will be no one in the world who does not rely on you."
The rebels invaded and disturbed Jing and Chu. Now you have wiped them out, and the south has been peaceful. You have returned in triumph, stationed outside the pass, and entered the court as a civilian official. This is the cause of the overlord.
Sima Ying didn't listen.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及乂死，颖表志为中书监，留鄴，参署相府事。
乘与败于荡阴，颖遣志督兵迎帝。
及王浚攻鄴，志劝颖奉天子还洛阳。
时甲士尚万五千人，志夜部分，至晓，众皆成列，而程太妃恋鄴不欲去，颖未能决。
俄而众溃，唯志与子谧、兄子綝、殿中武贲千人而已，志复劝颖早发。
时有道士姓黄，号曰圣人，太妃信之。
及使呼人，道士求两杯酒，饮讫，抛杯而去，于是志计始决。
而人马复散，志于营阵间寻索，得数乘鹿车，司马督韩玄收集黄门，得百余人。
志入，帝问志曰： 何故散败至此？
志曰： 贼去鄴尚八十里，而人士一朝骇散，太弟今欲奉陛下还洛阳。
帝曰： 甚佳。
于是御犊车便发。
屯骑校尉郝昌先领兵八千守洛阳，帝召之，至汲郡而昌至，兵仗甚盛。
志喜于复振，启天子宜下赦书，与百姓同其休庆。
既达洛阳，志启以满奋为司隶校尉。
奔散者多还，百官粗备，帝悦，赐志绢二百匹、绵百斤、衣一袭、鹤绫袍一领。
初，河间王颙闻王浚起兵，遣右将军张方救鄴。
方闻成都军败，顿兵洛阳，不敢进，纵兵虏掠，密欲迁都长安，将焚宗庙宫室，以绝人心。
志说方曰： 昔董卓无道，焚烧洛阳，怨毒之声，百年犹存，何为袭之！
乃止。
方遂逼天子幸其垒。
帝垂泣就舆，唯志侍侧，曰： 陛下今日之事，当一从右将军。
臣驽怯，无所云补，唯知尽微诚，不离左右而已。
停方垒三日便西，志复从至长安。
颖被黜，志亦免官。
及东海王越奉迎大驾，颙启帝复颖还鄴，以志为魏郡太守，加左将军，随颖北镇。
translation: 
After Sima Yi's death, Ying Shangzhi appointed Lu Zhi as the Secretary Supervisor and stayed in Ye to participate in the affairs of the prime minister's house.
The emperor was defeated by Dangyin, and Sima Ying sent Lu Jin to lead troops to greet the emperor.
Wang Jun attacked Ye, and Lu Zhi persuaded Ying to send the emperor back to Luoyang.
At that time, there were still 15,000 soldiers. Lu Zhiye regrouped and they were all lined up at dawn. However, Mrs. Cheng was still attached to Ye and refused to leave, so Yingti could not decide.
After a while, everyone dispersed, leaving only Lu Zhi, his son Lu Mi, his nephew Lu Sui, and Wu Ben in the palace, a thousand people. Lu Zhi once again urged Sima Ying to set off early.
At this time, there was a Taoist priest named Tong, who was called Saint, and the concubine believed in him.
When he was called in, he ordered two glasses of wine, drank them, and threw the glasses away, so he decided to use Lu Jin's plan.
But the men and horses dispersed again. Lu Zhi searched among the camps and got several deer carts. Sima Governor Han Xuan summoned Huangmen and got more than a hundred people.
Lu Zhi came to see the emperor, and the emperor asked him: What is the reason for such a defeat?
Lu Zhi replied: The thieves are still eighty miles away from Ye, but the soldiers were frightened and dispersed. My brother now wants to send His Majesty back to Luoyang.
The emperor said: Very good.
So we set off in an ox cart.
Hao Chang, the captain of the Tun Cavalry School, first led 8,000 troops to guard the bandits. The emperor summoned him. When the emperor arrived at Ji County, Hao Chang arrived with a strong force.
Lu Zhi was happy that the military power had been restored, and he wrote a letter of pardon from the emperor to celebrate with the people.
When he arrived in Luoyang, Lu Zhi asked Man Fen to serve as the commander of the Sili school.
Most of the people who had fled returned, and all the officials were basically in place. The emperor was very happy and rewarded him with two hundred pieces of Lu Jin silk, a hundred catties of cotton, a set of clothes, and a crane silk robe.
At first, Sima Xian, king of Hejian, heard that Wang Jun had raised troops and sent right general Zhang Fang to rescue Ye.
Zhang Fang heard that King Sima Ying of Chengdu was defeated and garrisoned in Luoyang. He did not dare to advance and launched troops to plunder and plunder. He secretly wanted to move the capital to Chang'an and burned down the ancestral temples and palaces, so he determined to move the capital.
Lu Zhi said to Zhang Fang: In the past, Dong Zhuo was tyrannical and burned Luoyang. The voice of resentment still exists for a hundred years. Why do you inherit him?
So give up.
Zhang Fang forced the emperor to go to his camp.
The emperor wept and got into the carriage, with only Lu Zhi at his side, and said: "Your Majesty, you should listen to your right general regarding matters today."
I am weak and timid, and I don’t know what to do to help His Majesty. I only know how to be loyal and stay with you.
After staying in Zhang Fang's camp for three days, he headed west. Lu Zhi followed him to Chang'an.
Sima Ying was deposed and Lu Zhi was dismissed from office.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, welcomed the emperor, Sima Yi told the emperor to ask Sima Ying to return to Ye. He appointed Lu Zhi as the prefect of Wei County and added General Zuo to guard the north with Sima Ying.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
行达洛阳，而平昌公模遣前锋督护冯嵩距颖。
颖还长安，未至而闻颙斩张方，求和于越。
颖住华阴，志进长安，诣阙陈谢，即还就颖于武关。
奔南阳，复为刘陶所驱，回诣河北。
及颖薨，官属奔散，唯志亲自殡送，时人嘉之。
越命志为军谘祭酒，迁卫尉，永嘉末，转尚书。
洛阳没，志将妻子北投并州刺史刘琨。
至阳邑，为刘粲所虏，与次子谧、诜等俱遇害于平阳。
长子谌。
谌字子谅，清敏有理思，好《老》《庄》，善属文。
选尚武帝女荥阳公主，拜驸马都尉，未成礼而公主卒。
后州举秀才，辟太尉掾。
洛阳没，随志北依刘琨，与志俱为刘粲所虏。
粲据晋阳，留谌为参军。
琨收散卒，引猗卢骑还攻粲。
粲败走，谌得赴琨，先父母兄弟在平阳者，悉为刘聪所害。
琨为司空，以谌为主薄，转从事中郎。
琨妻即谌之从母，既加亲爱，又重其才地。
建兴末，随琨投段匹磾。
匹磾自领幽州，取谌为别驾。
匹磾既害琨，寻亦败丧。
时南路阻绝，段末波在辽西，谌往投之。
元帝之初，末波通使于江左，谌因其使抗表理琨，文旨甚切，于是即加吊祭。
累徵谌为散骑中书侍郎，而为末波所留，遂不得南渡。
末波死，弟辽代立，谌流离世故且二十载。
石季龙破辽西，复为季龙所得，以为中书侍郎、国子祭酒、侍中、中书监。
属冉闵诛石氏，谌随闵军，于襄国遇害，时年六十七，是岁永和六年也。
谌名家子，早有声誉，才高行洁，为一时所推。
值中原丧乱，与清河崔悦、颖川荀绰、河东裴宪、北地傅暢并沦陷非所，虽俱显于石氏，恆以为辱。
谌每谓诸子曰： 吾身没之后，但称晋司空从事中郎尔。
撰《祭法》，注《庄子》，及文集，皆行于世。
悦字道儒，魏司空林曾孙，刘琨妻子之侄也。
与谌俱为琨司空从事中郎，后为末波佐史。
translation: 
When they arrived in Luoyang, they encountered Pingchang Company Ma Mo sent forward to protect Feng Song to resist Sima Ying.
Sima Ying returned to Chang'an. Before she arrived, she heard that Sima Ji had killed Zhang Fang and asked Sima Yue for peace.
Sima Ying lived in Huayin. Lu Zhi arrived in Chang'an, entered the palace to apologize, and immediately went to Wuguan to meet Sima Ying.
He fled to Nanyang, but was driven back to Hebei by Liu Tao.
When Sima Ying died, the officials and his family fled, and only Lu Zhi personally attended the funeral. People at that time praised him.
Sima Yue appointed Lu Zhi as a military counselor and offered wine, and was promoted to Weiwei. In the last years of Yongjia, he was appointed minister.
Luoyang fell, and Lu Zhi led his wife and children to the north to join Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou.
When he arrived in Yangyi, he was captured by Liu Can and killed in Pingyang together with his second sons Lu Mi and Lu Jiu.
The eldest son Lu Chen.
Lu Chen, whose courtesy name is Ziliang, has a clear mind, quick wit and insights. He likes "Lao" and "Zhuang" and is good at writing articles.
He married Princess Rongyang, the daughter of Emperor Wu, and served as Prince Consort, but the princess died before the marriage was consummated.
Later, he was promoted to scholar in the state and conscripted into Taiwei.
When Luoyang fell, he followed Lu Zhi to the north and attached himself to Liu Kun. He and Lu Zhi were captured by Liu Can.
Liu Can occupied Jinyang and left Lu Chen to join the army.
Liu Kun gathered some scattered troops and led Yi Lu's cavalry to attack Liu Can.
Liu Can was defeated and Lu Chen was able to return to Liu Kun. His parents and brothers who were in Pingyang were all killed by Liu Cong.
Liu Kun was appointed Sikong, with Lu Chen as chief clerk, and was appointed as Zhonglang.
Liu Kun's wife was Lu Chen's aunt. She loved him and valued his talents and family status.
In the last years of Jianxing, he followed Liu Kun to Duan Pichan.
Duan Pichen occupied Youzhou exclusively, with Lu Chen as his chariot.
Duan Pi Tan was defeated soon after he killed Liu Kun.
At that time, the road to the south was blocked, Duan Mobo was in western Liaoning, and Lu Chen went to join him.
In the early years of the Yuan Dynasty, Duan Mobo exchanged envoys with the Jin Dynasty. Lu Chen's envoy petitioned for Liu Kun, and the text was profound, so the court offered condolences and sacrifices.
Lu Chen was recruited many times as the Minister of Sanqi Zhongshu, but was retained by Duan Mobo and was not allowed to cross south.
Duan Mobo died and his younger brother Duan Liao succeeded to the throne. Lu Chen lived in a foreign country for nearly twenty years.
Shi Jilong conquered Liaoxi, and Lu Chen was captured by Shi Jilong. He was appointed as the minister of Zhongshu, the prince of the state, the minister of Zhongshu, and the supervisor of Zhongshu.
Ran Min killed Shi, and Lu Chen followed Ran Min's army and was killed in Xiangguo. He was sixty-seven years old. That was the sixth year of Yonghe.
Lu Chen was the son of a famous family. He had long had a reputation for his high talents and cleanliness, and was highly respected by people at the time.
At the time of the war in the Central Plains, Cui Yue from Qinghe, Xun Chuo from Jiechuan, Pei Xian from Hedong, and Fu Chang from Beidi were all trapped in foreign countries. Although they were very prominent in the later Zhao Dynasty, they were always ashamed of it.
President Lu Chen said to his sons: After my death, I will only be called Sikong Zhonglang of Jin Dynasty.
He wrote "Sacrifice", commented on "Zhuangzi", and collected essays, all of which have been passed down to the world.
Cui Yue, courtesy name Taoist, was the great-grandson of Wei Sikong Cui Ta and Liu Kun's nephew.
Together with Lu Chen, he worked as a lieutenant in Xingxi Sikong, and later served as Kengui Zhezuo Shi.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
没石氏，亦居大官。
其绰、宪、暢并别有传。
华表，字伟容，平原高唐人也，父歆，清德高行，为魏太尉。
表年二十，拜散骑黄门郎，累迁侍中。
正元初，石苞来朝，盛称高贵乡公，以为魏武更生。
时闻者流汗沾背，表惧祸作，频称疾归下舍，故免于大难。
后迁尚书。
五等建，封观阳伯。
坐供给丧事不整，免。
泰始中，拜太子少傅，转光禄勋。迁太常卿。
数岁，以老病乞骸骨。
诏曰： 表清贞履素，有老成之美，久干王事，静恭匪懈。
而以疾固辞，章表恳至。
今听如所上，以为太中大夫，赐钱二十万，床帐褥席禄赐与卿同，门施行马。
表以苦节垂名，司徒李胤、司隶王宏等并叹美表清澹退静，以为不可得贵贱而亲疏也。
咸宁元年八月卒，时年七十二，谥曰康，诏赐朝服。
有六子：暠、岑、峤、鉴、澹、简。
暠字长骏，弘敏有才义。
妻父卢毓典选，难举姻亲，故暠年三十五不得调，晚为中书通事郎。
泰始初，迁冗从仆射。
少为武帝所礼，历黄门侍郎、散骑常侍、前军将军、侍中、南中郎将、都督河北诸军事。
父疾笃辄还，仍遭丧旧例，葬讫复任，暠固辞，迕旨。
初，表有赐客在鬲，使暠因县令袁毅录名，三客各代以奴。
及毅以货赇致罪，狱辞迷谬，不复显以奴代客，直言送三奴与暠，而毅亦卢氏婿也。
又中书监荀勖先为中子求暠女，暠不许，为恨，因密启帝，以袁毅货赇者多，不可尽罪，宜责最所亲者一人，因指暠当之。
translation: 
If you fall into Pengzhao, you will also become a high official.
There are other biographies in the books of Baozhong, Xian and Chang.
Huabiao, whose courtesy name is Weirong, was from Gaotang, Pingyuan. His father, Hua Xin, was of noble character and served as Wei Taiwei.
When Huabiao was twenty years old, he was appointed as a Sanqi Huangmenlang and was promoted to the rank of Attendant several times.
In the early years of the Zhengyuan Dynasty, Shi Bao came to the court and praised Gaogui Xiang Gong, thinking that Wei Wu was reborn.
Everyone present was sweating profusely at that time. Hua Biao was afraid of the impending disaster and repeatedly said that he had to go home because he was ill, so he was spared the disaster.
Later he was promoted to minister.
He was given a fifth-class title and named Guanyang Bo.
Because the supplies for the funeral were not complete, he was dismissed from office.
During the Taishi period, he was appointed Prince Shaofu, changed his post to Guang Luxun, and was promoted to Taichang Qing.
A few years later, he requested to retire due to old age and illness.
The edict said: He is pure and upright, has good conduct, and has the beauty of maturity. He has handled government affairs for many years and dare not slack off.
He requested to retire due to serious illness and his attitude was sincere.
Now let him grant what he asked for, and he will be rewarded with a reward of 200,000 yuan by the Taizhong doctor. The bed, tent, mat, and seat will be the same as those of Jiuqing, and a wooden fence will be set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses.
Known for his unswerving determination, Situ Li Yin, Sili Wang Hong and others all lamented the indifference and tranquility of Jianzhi, and believed that distance should not be determined by high or low.
He died in August of the first year of Xianning at the age of seventy-two. Mi was named Chen and was given imperial robes by imperial edict.
He has six sons: Hua Du, Hua Cen, Hua Wei, Hua Jian, Hua Dan and Hua Jian.
Hua Hao, whose courtesy name is Changjun, has a quick mind.
Father-in-law Lu Yu presided over the election and did not mention in-laws, so Hua Yu was not allowed to be an official at the age of thirty-five, and was appointed Zhongshu Tongshilang very late.
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was promoted to redong servant servant.
He was treated politely by Genduo when he was young, and served successively as Huangmen Shilang, Sanqi Changshi, Qianjun General, Shizhong, Nanzhonglang General, and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Hebei.
When his father was seriously ill, he returned home and died of illness. According to the old rule, one must return to one's post after the burial, but Jianxiang refused to return, violating the emperor's will.
At first, there were three guests in the district, so Hua Hao was sent to the county magistrate Yuan Yi to register his name, and the three guests were all used as slaves.
When Yuan Yi was convicted of bribery, the verdict document was confusing and absurd. It no longer stated that slaves were used as guests, but directly said that three slaves were sent to Jiyu, and Yuan Yi was also the son-in-law of the Lu family.
Furthermore, Zhongshu Jian Baoxi once asked Hua Fu to marry his daughter on behalf of his son. Because he did not agree, he held a grudge, so he secretly reported to the emperor that there were too many people who had given bribes and they could not all be punished. The closest person should be punished, so he suggested that Hua Yu would be suitable.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
又绿暠有违忤之咎，遂于丧服中免暠官，削爵土。
大鸿胪何遵奏暠免为庶人，不应袭封，请以表世孙混嗣表。
有司奏曰： 暠所坐除名削爵，一时之制。
暠为世子，著在名簿，不听袭嗣，此为刑罚再加。
诸侯犯法，八议平处者，褒功重爵也。
嫡统非犯终身弃罪，废之为重，依律应听袭封。
诏曰： 诸侯薨，子逾年即位，此古制也。
应即位而废之，爵命皆去矣，何为罪罚再加？
且吾之责暠，以肃贪秽，本不论常法也。
诸贤不能将明此意，乃更诡易礼律，不顾宪度，君命废之，而群下复之，此为上下正相反也。
于是有司奏免议者官，诏皆以赎论。
混以世孙当受封，逃避，断发阳狂，病喑不能语，故得不拜，世咸称之。
暠栖迟家巷垂十载，教诲子孙，讲诵经典。
集经书要事，名曰《善文》，行于世。
与陈勰共造猪阑于宅侧，帝尝出视之，问其故，左右以实对，帝心怜之。
帝后又登陵云台，望见廙苜蓿园，阡陌甚整，依然感旧。
太康初大赦，乃得袭封。
久之，拜城门校尉，迁左卫将军。
数年，以为中书监。
惠帝即位，加侍中、光禄大夫、尚书令，进爵为公。
暠应杨骏召，不时还，有司奏免官。
寻迁太子少傅，加散骑常侍，动遵礼典，得傅导之义。
后年衰病笃，诏遣太医疗病，进位光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
时河南尹韩寿因托贾后求以女配暠孙陶，暠距而不许，后深以为恨，故遂不登台司。
年七十五卒，谥曰元。
三子：混、荟、恆。
translation: 
Because Hua Mi had violated the imperial edict, Hua Yu was dismissed from his official position and deprived of his title and fief during Hua Yu's mourning period.
Dahonglu He Zunqi reported that Hua Huan should be exempted from being an ordinary citizen and should no longer inherit the title. He requested that Hua Zhou's legitimate grandson Jie should be his heir.
Relevant departments reported that: Hua Yu's original identity and title were revoked for committing crimes. This is only a temporary provision.
If he is a legitimate son, it will be written in the name book and he will not be allowed to have any heirs. This is more severe than the punishment.
When princes break the law, they should be dealt with fairly according to the Eight Disciplines, and their penalties should be reduced or reduced.
The inheritance by a legitimate son does not constitute the crime of lifelong abolition. To abrogate the title is too much. According to the law, he should be allowed to succeed.
The edict said: When a prince dies, his son takes the throne one year later. This is the ancient system.
When he ascended the throne and deposed him, his title and life were lost. What is more serious than a punishment?
Besides, the reason why I punished him was to rectify his greed for money, and I didn’t do it according to the rules.
You cannot understand my intention, but instead secretly change the etiquette and ignore the law. I ordered him to be abolished, and you restored him. This is inconsistent.
So the relevant departments submitted a petition to remove the dissidents from their official positions, and Shao ordered them to be atonement.
Hua Hun's direct grandson should be granted the title, but he escaped, cut off his hair and pretended to be crazy, becoming mute and unable to speak. Because of this, he was able to take office, and people praised him.
Hua Pi has been living in seclusion at home for almost ten years, educating his children and grandchildren, and teaching and reading classics.
He collected important matters from scriptures and compiled them into "Shanwen", which became popular in the world.
He and Chen Xie built a pig pen next to the house. The emperor once saw him when he was out and asked why. He told the truth and the emperor sympathized with him.
Later, the emperor went to the Yuntai of the mausoleum and saw the Hua Dian Alfalfa Garden, with its vast streets and streets, which made him very nostalgic.
After the general amnesty in the early years of Taikang, Hua Yu was able to inherit the title.
A long time later, he was appointed as the captain of the city gate and promoted to the general of Zuowei.
A few years later, he served as secretary-supervisor of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he added Shizhong, Guanglu Dafu, Shangshu Ling, and became a duke.
Yang Jun summoned Hua Mi back, but he did not arrive on time, and the relevant departments reported his dismissal.
Soon he was promoted to the prince's young master's position, and he was appointed as a regular attendant. He acted according to etiquette and learned the true meaning of the master's teachings.
Later, when he got old and became seriously ill, he was ordered to treat his illness and was promoted to Guanglu Doctor and Kaifu Yitong.
Yin Han, the mother of Zaoshi River, asked for her daughter to be betrothed to Hua Fu's grandson Hua Tao after the purchase, but Hua Yu refused. After the purchase, she hated him very much, so she could not take the position of the three princes.
He died at the age of seventy-five and was named Yuan.
Three sons: Hua Hun, Hua Lei, and Hua Heng.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
混字敬伦，嗣父爵，清贞简正，历位侍中、尚书，卒官。
子陶嗣，补巩令，没于石勒。
荟字敬叔，为河南尹。
与荀籓、荀组俱避贼，至临颖，父子并遇害。
恆字敬则，博学以清素为称。
尚武帝女荥阳长公主，拜驸马都尉。
元康初，东宫建，恆以选为太子宾友，赐爵关内侯，食邑百户。
辟司徒王浑仓曹掾，属除散骑侍郎，累迁散骑常侍、北军中候，俄拜领军，加散骑常侍。
愍帝即位，以恆为尚书，进爵苑陵县公。
顷之，刘聪逼长安，诏出恆为镇军将军，领颍川太守，以为外援。
恆兴合义军，得二千人，未及西赴，而关中陷没。
时群贼方盛，所在州郡相继奔败，恆亦欲弃郡东渡，而从兄轶为元帝所诛，以此为疑。
先书与骠骑将军王导，导言于帝。
帝曰： 兄弟罪不相及，况群从乎！
即召恆，补光禄勋。
恆到，未及拜，更以为卫将军，加散骑常侍、本州大中正。
寻拜太常，议立郊祀。
尚书刁协、国子祭酒杜彝议，须还洛乃修郊祀。
恆议，汉献帝居许，即便郊柴，宜于此修立。
司徒荀组、骠骑将军王导同恆议，遂定郊祀。
寻以疾求解，诏曰： 太常职主宗庙，烝尝敬重，而华恆所疾，不堪亲奉职事。
夫子称 吾不与祭，如不祭 ，况宗伯之任职所司邪！
今转恆为廷尉。
顷之，加特进。
太宁初，迁骠骑将军，加散骑常侍，督石头水陆诸军事。
王敦表转恆为护军，疾病不拜。
授金紫光禄大夫，又领太子太保。
成帝即位，加散骑常侍，领国子祭酒。
咸和初，以愍帝时赐爵进封一皆削除，恆更以讨王敦功封苑陵县侯，复领太常。
苏峻之乱，恆侍帝左右，从至石头，备履艰危，困悴逾年。
初，恆为州大中正，乡人任让轻薄无行，为恆所黜。
及让在峻军中，任势多所杀害，见恆辄恭敬，不肆其虐。
钟雅、刘超之死，亦将及恆，让尽心救卫，故得免。
及帝加元服，又将纳后。
寇难之后，典籍靡遗，婚冠之礼，无所依据。
恆推寻旧典，撰定礼仪，并郊庙辟雍朝廷轨则，事并施用。
迁左光禄大夫、开府，常侍如故，固让未拜。
会卒，时年六十九，册赠侍中、左光禄大夫、开府，谥曰敬。
恆清恪俭素，虽居显列，常布衣蔬食，年老弥笃。
translation: 
Huahun, whose courtesy name was Jinglun, inherited his father's title. He was honest and simple. He served successively as a minister and minister, and died in office.
His son, Hua Tao, succeeded him as Gong Ling and fell into the hands of Hu Qin.
Hua Hui, courtesy name Jingshu, served as Yin of Henan.
Together with Xun Lai and Xun Zu, they avoided thieves and arrived at Linying. Father and son were killed at the same time.
Hua Heng, whose courtesy name was Jingze, was famous for his erudition and his innocence.
Married Princess Rongyang, the daughter of Emperor Wu, and served as Prince Consort.
In the early years of Wuchen's reign, the crown prince was established. Jie Heng was selected as the crown prince's guest and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 100 households.
Situ was requisitioned by the labor movement as a cangcao, and then served as the minister of Sanqi. He was promoted to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi and the middle marshal of the Northern Army many times. Soon he was appointed as the leader of the army and became the regular servant of Sanqi.
When Emperor Min ascended the throne, he appointed Hua Heng as Shangshu and became Duke of Jueyuanling County.
Soon, Liu Cong approached Chang'an and ordered Hua Heng to serve as general of the town army and lead Yingchuan as prefect to provide foreign aid.
Hua Heng gathered the rebels and got 2,000 men. Before he could move to the west, Guanzhong was lost.
At that time, the group of thieves was strong, and the prefectures and counties where they were located were fleeing one after another. Hua Heng also wanted to abandon the county Shudu, but his cousin Hua Yi was killed by Emperor Yuan, so he hesitated.
First, write a letter to General Wang Dao, who will report to Emperor Yuan.
Emperor Yuan said: Brothers are not guilty, let alone uncles!
Hua Heng was immediately recalled and replaced by Guang Luxun.
After Hua Heng arrived, before he had time to appoint him, he was changed to General of the Guard, added to the rank of Sanqi Changshi, and the Honshu Dazhongzheng.
Soon Ren Taichang was discussing a suburban sacrifice.
Diao Xie, the minister of state, and Du Yi, the son of the state, thought it was necessary to return to Luoyang and hold sacrifices in the suburbs.
Hua Heng believed that since Emperor Mo Xian lived in Xu, he should offer sacrifices in the suburbs of Xu, and that the sacrifices should be held locally.
Situ Xun's group, Hussar General Wang Dao and Hua Heng agreed, so they decided to sacrifice in the suburbs.
Not long after, he proposed to resign because he was seriously ill. The edict stated: Taichang is in charge of the ancestral temple and the sacrifices are very solemn, but Hua Heng is seriously ill and cannot preside over it himself.
Confucius said, "If I don't participate in sacrifices, it's like there are no sacrifices. What's more, this itself is too often a duty!"
Now Hua Heng is appointed as Tingwei.
Soon, Gat entered.
In the early years of Taining, he was promoted to general of hussars, appointed as regular attendant of Sanqi, and supervised all military affairs including stone, water and land.
Wang Dun reported that Hua Heng was appointed as the guard of the army, but he was seriously ill and refused to take up the post.
He was appointed as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and also served as the crown prince's Taibao.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he added Sanqi regular attendants and led the princes to offer wine.
In the early years of Xianhe, all the titles and titles granted to him by Emperor Min were cancelled. Hua Heng also used Wang Dungong to claim the title of Marquis of Yuanling County, and then received Taichang.
During Su Jun's Rebellion, Hua Heng served the emperor and went to Shitou together. He suffered hardships and was in embarrassment for a year.
At the beginning, Hua Heng was appointed as the Grand Central Officer of the state, while his fellow villager Ren Rang was frivolous and indulgent, and was deposed by Hua Heng.
When Ren Rang was in Su Jun's army, most of the powerful people were killed by him. When he saw Hua Heng, he was very respectful and did not do anything wrong.
After Zhong Ya and Liu Chao died, it would be Hua Heng's turn, and Ren Rang tried his best to save them, so he was able to escape.
When the Yuan Emperor joins the Yuan Dynasty, he will establish a queen.
After the war, all the ancient books were destroyed, leaving no basis for the wedding ceremony.
Hua Heng explored the old scriptures, compiled etiquette, and established the ritual system of the Yong court in the suburban temple, all of which were implemented.
He was promoted to Dr. Zuo Guanglu and opened the mansion, but the regular attendants remained as usual. He refused and refused to take up the post.
When he passed away at the age of sixty-nine, he was given the title to Shizhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu, with the honorific title Mi.
Hua Heng is cautious and frugal. Although he is in a high position, he often lives in plain clothes and eats vegetables, especially when he is old.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
死之日，家无余财，唯有书数百卷，时人以此贵之。
子俊嗣，为尚书郎。
俊子仰之，大长秋。
峤字叔骏，才学深博，少有令闻。
文帝为大将军，辟为掾属，补尚书郎，转车骑从事中郎。
泰始初，赐爵关内侯。
迁太子中庶子。出为安平太守。
辞亲老不行，更拜散骑常侍，典中书著作，领国子博士，迁侍中。
太康末，武帝颇亲宴乐，又多疾病。
属小瘳，峤与侍臣表贺，因微谏曰： 伏惟圣体渐就平和，上下同庆，不觉抃舞。
臣等愚戆，窃有微怀，以为收功于所忽，事乃无悔；虑福于垂成，祚乃日新。
唯愿陛下深垂圣明，远思所忽之悔，以成日新之福。
冲静和气，啬养精神，颐身于清简之宇，留心于虚旷之域。无厌世俗常戒，以忽群下之言，则丰庆日延，天下幸甚！
帝手诏报曰： 辄自消息，无所为虑。
元康初，封宣昌亭侯。
诛杨骏，改封乐乡侯，迁尚书。
后以峤博闻多识，属书典实，有良史之志，转秘书监，加散骑常侍，班同中书。
寺为内台，中书、散骑、著作及治礼音律，天文数术，南省文章，门下撰集，皆典统之。
初，峤以《汉纪》烦秽，慨然有改作之意。
会为台郎，典官制事，由是得遍观秘籍，遂就其绪，起于光武，终于孝献，一百九十五年，为帝纪十二卷、皇后纪二卷、十典十卷、传七十卷及三谱、序传、目录，凡九十七卷。
峤以皇后配天作合，前史作外戚传以继末编，非其义也，故易为皇后纪，以次帝纪。
又改志为典，以有《尧典》故也。
而改名《汉后书》奏之。诏朝臣会议。
translation: 
When he died, his family had no money and only had hundreds of volumes of books, so people respected him very much.
His son Hua Jun succeeded him and became Shangshu Lang.
Jianyu's son welcomes him and stays with him for a long time.
Hua Wei, whose courtesy name is Shu Jun, is knowledgeable and has a good reputation at a young age.
Emperor Wen appointed him as a general, requisitioned him as a subordinate official, replaced him as Shangshulang, and changed his position to charioteer and zhonglang.
In the early years of Taishi, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He was promoted to the crown prince's concubine and appointed as the prefect of Anping.
Because his parents were old and refused, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, responsible for the writing of Zhongshu, and was promoted to the rank of Shizhong under the leadership of Dr. Guozi.
In the last years of Taikang, Emperor Wu indulged in wine and sex and suffered from many diseases.
When the illness got better, Hua Jiao and her courtiers came up to express their congratulations, and took the opportunity to remonstrate in a cryptic manner: "The holy body is getting better, everyone is celebrating and rejoicing."
We are ignorant and secretly believe that we must not miss any detail so that we will have no regrets. When victory is in sight, we think of happiness as hard-won, so that our country can make rapid progress.
I only hope that Your Majesty will be infinitely sage and wise, and ponder over the regrets that may occur unintentionally, so as to gain everlasting happiness.
Be indifferent and kind, maintain your spirit, be open-minded, don't hate worldly conventions, and don't ignore the words of officials, then you will always be rich and happy, and the world will be lucky!
The emperor himself wrote in Shao Shu: "Recuperate by yourself, don't think about it."
In the early years of Yuankang, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanchang Ting.
After killing Yang Jun, he was granted the title of Marquis of Lexiang and was promoted to Shangshu.
Later, Hua Wei was learned and knowledgeable, wrote books and evaluated, and had the ambition to be a good historian. He was changed to Secretary Supervisor, and he was added as a regular servant of casual cavalry, and he was ranked alongside Zhongshu.
The organization is located in the Shangshu Province, and he is in charge of Zhongshu, Sanqi, writing and formulating etiquette, examination of music and rhythm, astronomy and arithmetic, Shangshu and disciples' writing.
At first, Hua Wei thought that the "Han Chronicles" was complicated and expressed his ambition to rewrite it.
Just in time to become a minister, specializing in officialdom, I was able to read all kinds of classics, so I was basically ready. Beginning with Emperor Guangwu and ending with Emperor Xiaoxian, it lasted for one hundred and ninety-five years. There were twelve volumes of Emperor's Chronicles, two volumes of Queen's Chronicles, ten volumes of Ten Canons, seventy volumes of biographies, and three volumes of genealogy, preface and catalogue, totaling ninety-seven volumes.
Huajiao believed that the queen and the emperor were one, and it was wrong to put the queen at the end of the biography of her relatives in previous history, so she changed it to the queen's biography, which came after the emperor's biography.
It was also changed from Zhi to Dian because of the "Yao Dian".
The whole book was renamed "Book of the Later Han Dynasty" and was submitted to the imperial court. Shao ordered the courtiers to discuss it.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时中书监荀勖、令和峤、太常张华、侍中王济咸以峤文质事核，有迁固之规，实录之风，藏之秘府。
后太尉汝南王亮、司空卫瓘为东宫傅，列上通讲，事遂施行。
峤所著论议难驳诗赋之属数十万言，其所奏官制、太子宜还宫及安边、雩祭、明堂辟雍、浚导河渠，巡禹之旧迹置都水官，修蚕宫之礼置长秋，事多施行。
元康三年卒，追赠少府，谥曰简。
峤性嗜酒，率常沈醉。
所撰书十典未成而终，秘书监何劭奏峤中子彻为佐著作郎，使踵成之，未竟而卒。
后监缪徵又奏峤少子暢为佐著作郎，克成十典，并草魏、晋纪传，与著作郎张载等俱在史官。
永嘉丧乱，经籍遗没，峤书存者五十余卷。
峤有三子：颐、彻、暢。
颐嗣，官至长乐内史。
暢有才思，所著文章数万言。
遭寇乱，避难荆州，为贼所害，时年四十。
石鉴，字林伯，乐陵厌次人也。
出自寒素，雅志公亮。
仕魏，历尚书郎、侍御史、尚书左丞、御史中丞，多所纠正，朝廷惮之，出为并州刺史、假节、护匈奴中郎将。
武帝受禅，封堂阳子。
入为司隶校尉，转尚书。
时秦、凉为虏所败，遣鉴都督陇右诸军事，坐论功虚伪免官。
后为镇南将军、豫州刺史，坐讨吴贼虚张首级。
诏曰： 昔云中守魏尚以斩首不实受刑，武牙将军田顺以诈增虏获自杀，诬罔败法，古今所疾。
鉴备大臣，吾所取信。
往者西事，公欺朝廷，以败为得，竟不推究。
中间黜免未久，寻复授用，冀能补过，而乃与下同诈。
所谓大臣，义得尔乎！
有司奏是也，顾未忍耳。
今遣归田里，终身不得复用，勿削爵土也。
久之，拜光禄勋，复为司隶校尉，稍加特进，迁右光禄大夫、开府，领司徒。
translation: 
At that time, Zhongshu supervisor Xun Xu, Zhongshu Linghe Wei, Taichang Zhang Hua, and Shizhong Wang Ji all thought that Hua Wei's writing was simple and historical, and that it had the style of Sima Qian and Ban Gu, so they hid it in a place dedicated to secret books.
Later, Taiwei Runan Wang Sima Liang and Sikong Weigan were appointed as the prince's masters. They had to explain it to the prince once and were allowed to implement it.
Hua Wei wrote hundreds of thousands of comments, refutations, poems and poems. What he said about the official system, the prince should return to the palace and stabilize the frontier, the sacrifice to pray for rain, the bright hall to open the Yong, the dredging of rivers, the appointment of Du Shuiguan to visit Yu's footprints, the etiquette of the queen's silkworm rearing, the appointment of Changqiu official, most of the things were implemented.
Yuankang passed away in the third year of his life and was given posthumously to the Shaofu, with the title of Mi Jian.
Huajiao loves to drink and often gets drunk.
He died before completing the Ten Codes. The secretary supervisor He Shaoshang asked Hua Wei's son Hua Che to be his assistant and asked him to complete the work. He died before completing the work.
Later, secretary-supervisor Miao Zheng proposed to appoint Hua Chang, Hua Wei's youngest son, as his assistant author. He finally completed the Ten Codes and wrote biographies of the Wei and Jin Dynasties. He and his author Zhang Zai were both historians.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, the classics were lost, but more than thirty volumes of Hua Wei's books are still preserved.
Hua Wo has three sons: Hua Yi, Hua Che, and Hua Chang.
Hua Yi succeeded him and became an official in the internal history of Changle.
Hua Chang has a quick mind and his articles are worth thousands of words.
Encountering war, he took refuge in Jingzhou and was killed by thieves at the age of forty.
Shi Jian, courtesy name Lin Bo, was a native of Yanci, Leling.
He was born into a poor family, has noble aspirations and is fair in dealing with things.
When he was an official in the Wei Dynasty, he served successively as Shangshu Lang, Shi Yushi, Shangshu Zuocheng, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He corrected many current affairs and personnel, and the emperor was afraid of him. He served as governor of Bingzhou, Jiajie, and Zhonglang general who protected the Huns.
Emperor Wu accepted Emperor Wei's abdication and granted Shi Jian the title of Tang Yangzi.
He was summoned to serve as Sili Xiaowei, and was changed to Shangshu.
At that time, Qin and Liang were defeated by foreigners, and Shi Jian was sent to supervise the military affairs of Longyou. He was dismissed from his post for falsely reporting military exploits.
Later he served as general of Zhennan and governor of Yuzhou. He was convicted of falsely reporting the number of enemies killed during the campaign against Wu.
The edict said: In the past, Yunzhong's Wei Shang was punished for beheading an incorrect number of people, and Wuya General Tian Shun committed suicide by overreporting the number of prisoners. This is a fraud and bad law, which is hated by ancient and modern times.
Shi Jian is a minister, and I trust him very much.
In the past wars in the west, he blatantly deceived the court and rewarded him with defeat, but in the end he was not investigated.
Shortly after he was dismissed during this period, he was reactivated, hoping to make up for his past mistakes, but he still committed fraud with his subordinates.
As a minister, where is the friendship?
The relevant departments were right to report it, but I can’t bear to think about it in retrospect.
Now he will be sent home and will not be allowed to use it again for life, but he will not be deprived of his title and fief.
A long time later, he was appointed Guangluxun, and then Sili school captain. Soon after, he was promoted to Youguanglu doctor, Kaifu, and Situ.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
前代三公册拜，皆设小会，所以崇宰辅之制也。
自魏末已后，废不复行。
至鉴，有诏令会，遂以为常。
太康末，拜司空，领太子太傅。
武帝崩，鉴与中护军张劭监统山陵。
时大司马、汝南王亮为太傅杨骏所疑，不敢临丧，出营城外。
时有告亮欲举兵讨骏，骏大惧，白太后令帝为手诏，诏鉴及张劭使率陵兵讨亮。
劭，骏甥也，便率所领催鉴速发，鉴以为不然，保持之，遣人密觇视亮，已别道还许昌，于是骏止，论者称之。
山陵讫，封昌安县侯。
元康初，为太尉。
年八十余，克壮慷慨，自遇若少年，时人美之。
寻薨，谥曰元。
子陋，字处贱，袭封，历屯骑校尉。
温羡，字长卿，太原祁人，汉护羌校尉序之后也。
祖恢，魏扬州刺史。
父恭，济南太守。
兄弟六人并知名于世，号曰 六龙 。
羡少以朗寤见称，齐王攸辟为掾，迁尚书郎。
惠帝即位，拜豫州刺史，入为散骑常侍，累迁尚书。
及齐王冏辅政，以羡攸之故吏，意特亲之，转吏部尚书。
先是，张华被诛，冏建议欲复其官爵。
论者或以为非，羡驳之曰： 自天子已下，争臣各有差，不得归罪于一人也。
故晏子曰： 为已死亡，非其亲昵，谁能任之？
里克之杀二庶，陈乞之立阳生，汉朝之诛诸吕，皆积年之后乃得立事。
未有事主见存，而得行其志于数月之内者也。
式乾之会，张华独谏。
上宰不和，不能承风赞善，望其指麾从命，不亦难乎！
况今皇后谮害其子，内难不预，礼非所在。
且后体齐于帝，尊同皇极，罪在枉子，事不为逆，义非所讨。
今以华不能废枉子之后，与赵盾不讨杀君之贼同，而贬责之，于义不经通也。
华竟得追复爵位。
其后以从驾讨成都王颖有勋，封大陵县公，邑千八百户。
出为冀州刺史，加后将军，范阳王虓败于许昌也，自牧冀州，羡乃避之。
惠帝之幸长安，以羡为中书令，不就。
及帝还洛阳，征为中书监，加散骑常侍。
未拜，会帝崩。怀帝即位，迁左光禄大夫、开府，领司徒。论者佥谓为速。
在位未几，病卒，赠司徒，谥曰元。
有三子：祗、允、裕。
祗字敬齐，太傅西曹掾。
允字敬咸，太子舍人。
裕字敬嗣，尚武安长公主，官至左光禄大夫。
史臣曰：晋氏中朝，承累世之资，建兼并之业，衣冠斯盛，英彦如林。
此数公者，或以雅望处台槐，或以高名居保傅，自非一时之秀，亦曷能至于斯。
translation: 
In previous generations, banquets were held to show the importance of the three princes when they were enthroned.
Since the end of the Wei Dynasty, it has no longer been implemented.
By the time of Shijian, Shao Ling was restored and became a system.
In the last years of Taikang, he was appointed Sikong and served as the crown prince and tutor.
When Emperor Wu died, Shi Jian and Zhang Shao, the Central Guardsman, supervised the tomb.
At that time, Grand Sima and Runan King Sima Liang were suspected by Taifu Yang Jun and did not dare to go to express condolences and stationed outside the city.
At this time, someone reported that Sima Liang wanted to send troops to attack Yang Jun. Yang Jun was very frightened and asked the Queen Mother to order the emperor to write the Shao Shu personally, and ordered Shi Jian and Zhang Shao to lead the soldiers guarding the mausoleum to attack Sima Liang.
Zhang Shao was Yang Jun's nephew, so he led his troops to urge Shi Jian to send troops quickly. Shi Jian thought that this would not be the case, so he held his troops back and sent someone to spy on Sima Liang. Sima Liang had returned to Xuchang by another way, so Yang Jun stopped his action, and everyone who discussed it praised Shi Jian.
After guarding the mausoleum, he was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an County.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was appointed Taiwei.
In his eighties, impassioned, he thought of himself as a teenager: people praised him.
He died soon after and was named Yuan.
His son, Shi Chou, had a lowly character, inherited the title, and served as the captain of the Tunqi School.
Wen Xian, also known as Changqing, was a native of Qi, Taiyuan, and a descendant of Wen Xu, the captain of the Han Qiang School.
His grandfather Wen Hui was the governor of Yangzhou during the Wei Dynasty.
His father Wen Gong served as the prefect of Jinan.
The six brothers are famous all over the world and are known as the "Six Dragons".
Wen Xian was famous for his intelligence when he was young. King Sima You of Qi recruited him as a subordinate official and was promoted to Shangshu Lang.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was appointed governor of Yuzhou. He was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi and was promoted to minister several times.
When Sima Jian, King of Qi, assisted in the administration, because Wen Xian was Sima You's old subordinate and was particularly close to him, he was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
It turned out that Zhang Hua was killed, and Ji suggested that his title be reinstated.
Someone raised an objection, and Shi Xian retorted: From the time of the Emperor of Heaven onwards, the admonishment officials all have their faults, and they cannot be blamed on one person.
Therefore King Lei said: If someone is not close to him, who can bear it if he dies for himself?
Rick killed the two concubines, Chen Qi established Yangsheng, and the Han Dynasty killed the Lu family, but it took many years for them to establish their affairs.
No one can do whatever they want within a few months while the victim is still alive.
At the meeting in Shiqian Hall, Zhang Hua was the only one to give advice.
The prime ministers are at odds and cannot take advantage of the situation to promote good deeds. Isn't it difficult to expect Zhang Hua to command them to follow closely?
Moreover, now the queen only framed the prince and did not take part in the internal trouble, so she was ignorant of etiquette.
Moreover, the queen and the emperor are one and the same, and they respect the same emperor. Her crime is to frame the prince, which is not considered treason, and according to etiquette, she should not be attacked.
Now it is unreasonable to equate Zhang Hua's failure to depose the queen who framed the prince with Zhao Dun's failure to attack the thief who killed the king, and to belittle and condemn him.
Zhang Hua was eventually able to regain his title.
Later, he served as a servant in the campaign against Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, and was granted the title of Duke of Daling County, with a settlement of 1,800 households.
He was appointed as the governor of Jizhou and later became a general. Fanyang King Sima Rao defeated Xuchang and took charge of Jizhou himself, but Wen Xian avoided him.
When Emperor Hui went to Chang'an, he appointed Wen Xian as his official secretary, but he refused to go.
When Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang, he was recruited as the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and he was appointed as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
Before the appointment, Emperor Hui died and Emperor Huai ascended the throne. He was appointed doctor Zuo Guanglu, opened the mansion, and led the Situ. People commented that he was promoted too quickly.
He died of illness shortly after taking office and was given to Situ as a gift. Mi was given the title Yuan.
He has three sons: Wen Zhi, Wen Yun and Wen Yu.
Shizhi was named Jingqi and was appointed as Taifu Xicao.
Shiyun's courtesy name was Jingxian, and he was appointed as the prince's wife.
Shiyu, courtesy name Jingsi, married the eldest princess of Wu'an and became the official of Zuo Guanglu.
Shi Chen said: In the middle of the Jin Dynasty, the achievements of several generations were inherited, the great cause of unification was established, and there were many talents and wise men.
These few people either live in Taiwan Province because of their reputation, or they become the prince's master because of their high reputation. They are not talents for a while, so how can they be like this.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
惜其参缄于论道之辰，独善于兼济之日，良图鲠议，无足多谈。
然退已进贤，林叔弘推让之美；自家刑国，宣伯协恭孝之规。
子若之儒素为基，伟容之苦节流誉，庆垂来叶，不亦宜哉！
石鉴以公亮升，温羡以明寤显，属于危乱，不陨其名。
岁寒见松柏之后凋，斯人之谓矣。
赞曰：让矣密陵，孝哉广陆。
钦既博雅，表亦贞肃。
鉴绩克宣，温声载穆。
同锵玉振，争芬兰郁。
translation: 
It is a pity that they remain silent when discussing the truth, and they are alone in saving the world and the country. They are outspoken about their good intentions, which is beyond praise.
However, when he retreated from himself and promoted the virtuous, Uncle Lin promoted the virtue of giving and giving; to govern the country and family, Uncle Xuan followed the rules of filial piety.
Ziruo's Confucian virtues, his majestic appearance and unswerving determination, and his blessings are passed down to the world, isn't it great!
Shi Jian was promoted because of his fairness and straightness, while Wen Xian was famous for his virtuous character. They lived up to the crisis and did not lose their reputation.
Suihan knows how tall the pines and cypresses are, and he is talking about these people.
Praise said: Let the dense mausoleum be, and the filial piety is the vast land.
Qin is both liberal and elegant, and his appearance is also chaste and solemn.
We learn from each other and are more competitive than Dong Sumu.
Resonating with the sound of jade, competing for fragrance.


