Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 5, 18]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
曹沫者，鲁人也，以勇力事鲁庄公。
庄公好力。
曹沫为鲁将，与齐战，三败北。
鲁庄公惧，乃献遂邑之地以和。
犹复以为将。
齐桓公许与鲁会于柯而盟。
桓公与庄公既盟于坛上，曹沫执匕首劫齐桓公，桓公左右莫敢动，而问曰： 子将何欲？
曹沫曰： 齐强鲁弱，而大国侵鲁亦甚矣。
今鲁城坏即压齐境，君其图之。
桓公乃许尽归鲁之侵地。
既已言，曹沫投其匕首，下坛北面就群臣之位颜色不变，辞令如故。
桓公怒，欲倍其约。
管仲曰： 不可。
夫贪小利以自快，弃信于诸侯，矢天下之援，不如与之。
于是桓公乃遂割鲁侵地，曹沫三战所亡地尽复予鲁。
其后百六十有七年而吴有专诸之事。
专诸者，吴堂邑人也：伍子胥之亡楚而如吴也，知专诸之能。
translation: 
Cao Mo was from the state of Lu, and served Duke Zhuang of Lu with bravery and strength.
Duke Zhuang loves brave people.
Cao Mo served as the general of Lu and fought with Qi, being defeated many times and fled.
Duke Zhuang of Lu was afraid, so he offered up Suiyi area to seek peace.
But Cao Mo was still appointed as general.
Duke Huan of Qi agreed to meet with Duke Zhuang of Lu in Ke Di and make an alliance.
After Duke Huan and Duke Zhuang made an alliance on the altar, Cao Mo threatened Duke Huan with a dagger. No one in Duke Huan's bodyguard dared to move rashly. Duke Huan asked, "What are you going to do?"
Cao Mo replied: Qi is strong and Lu is weak, so it would be too much to invade Lu with a big country.
Now if the capital of Lu falls, it will hit the border of Qi. You need to consider this issue.
So Duke Huan of Qi promised to return all the occupied land of Lu.
After he finished speaking, Cao Mo dropped his dagger, walked down from the altar, and returned to where the courtiers were sitting, facing north, his expression unchanged, and his conversation calm as usual.
Duke Huan was very angry and planned to break the covenant.
Guan Zhong said: No.
If you covet small profits for temporary pleasure, you will lose credibility in front of the princes and lose the support of the people in the world. It is better to return the land to Lu.
So, Duke Huan of Qi returned the occupied land of Lu as agreed, and all the land that Cao Mo had lost in many battles returned to Lu.
One hundred and sixty-seven years later, there were Zhuan Zhu's deeds in the state of Wu.
Zhuanzhu was from Wu Guotang. When Wu Zixu fled Chu and went to Wu, he knew that Zhuan Zhu had skills.

summary:
summary line 0: The deeds of five assassins from ancient China, spanning over four centuries. Cao Mo of Lu, a general who, after military defeats against Qi, threatened Duke Huan of Qi with a dagger during a peace alliance. Cao Mo forced the duke to promise the return of all occupied Lu lands. Though the duke initially wanted to break the promise, his advisor Guan Zhong convinced him that keeping his word was crucial for maintaining credibility among the feudal lords, and the lands were returned.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
伍子胥既见吴王僚，说以伐楚之利。
吴公子光曰： 彼伍员父兄皆死于楚而员言伐楚，欲自为报私雠也，非能为吴。
吴王乃止。
伍子胥知公子光之欲杀吴王僚。乃曰： 彼光将有内志，未可说以外事。
乃进专诸于公子光。
光之父曰吴王诸樊。
诸樊弟三人：次曰余祭，次曰夷昧，次曰季子札。
诸樊知季子札贤而不立太子，以次传三弟，欲卒致国于季子札。
诸樊既死，传余祭。
余祭死，传夷昧。
夷昧死，当传季子札；季子札逃不肯立，吴人乃立夷昧之子僚为王。
公子光曰： 使以兄弟次邪，季子当立；必以子乎，则光真适嗣，当立。
故尝阴养谋臣以求立。
光既得专诸，善客待之。
九年而楚平王死。
春，吴王僚欲因楚丧，使其二弟公子盖余、属庸将兵围楚之灊；使延陵季子于晋，以观诸侯之变。
楚发兵绝吴将盖余、属庸路，吴兵不得还。
于是公子光谓专诸曰： 此时不可失，不求何获!
且光真王嗣，当立，季子虽来，不吾废也。
专诸曰： 王僚可杀也：母老子弱，而两弟将兵伐楚，楚绝其后。
方今吴外困于楚，而内空无骨鲠之臣，是无如我何。
公子光顿首曰： 光之身，子之身也。
四月丙子，光伏甲士于窟室中，而具酒请王僚。王僚使兵陈自宫至光之家，门户阶陛左右，皆王僚之亲戚也。
translation: 
After Wu Zixu went to see King Liao of Wu, he persuaded him about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Wu Gongziguang said: That Wu Yuan's father and brother were all killed by the Chu State. Wu Yuan just wanted to attack the Chu State. He did it to avenge his own personal revenge and did not really think about the Wu State.
The king of Wu no longer discussed the attack on Chu.
Wu Zixu knew that Young Master Guang planned to kill King Liao of Wu, so he said: That Young Master Guang has an attempt to seize the throne at home, and we cannot persuade him to send troops abroad yet.
So he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang.
The father of Prince Guang was Zhufan, King of Wu.
Zhufan had three younger brothers: in order of brotherhood, the eldest brother was called Yuji, the second brother was called Yimei, and the youngest brother was called Ji Zha.
Zhufan knew that Ji Zha was a virtuous man, so he did not make his son the crown prince. Instead, he wanted to pass on the throne in the order of brothers, and finally pass the throne to Ji Zha.
After Zhufan died, the throne was passed to Yuji.
After Yuji's death, he passed it on to Yimei.
After Yimei's death, it should have been passed down to Jiziza, but Jiziza avoided and refused to be made king, so the people of Wu made Yimei's son Liao their king.
Prince Guang said: If the order of brothers is to be followed, the youngest son should be established; if it must be passed on to the son, then I am the real legitimate son, and I should be made the king.
Therefore, he often secretly supported some wise people in order to obtain the throne with their help.
After Prince Guang got Zhuanzhu, he treated him well like a guest.
In the ninth year of King Liao of Wu, King Ping of Chu died.
In the spring of this year, King Liao of Wu wanted to take advantage of the funeral of Chu State and sent his two younger brothers, Gongzi Gaiyu and Shuyong, to lead an army to surround the city of Ji of Chu State. He also sent the youngest son of Yanling to Jin State to observe the activities of various vassal states.
The Chu State sent out its troops and cut off Wu generals Gaiyu and Shuyong's retreat. The Wu army could not return.
At this time, Gongzi Guang said to Zhuan Zhu: This opportunity cannot be missed. If you don't fight for it, you will never get it!
Besides, I am the true heir and should be made king. Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not depose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: Wang Liao can be killed. Mother and son were weak, so the two younger brothers led the army to attack the Chu State. The Chu State army cut off their retreat.
At present, the Wu army is besieged by the Chu State outside, but there are no loyal ministers who are upright and outspoken in the country. What else can King Liao do to us?
Gongzi Guang kowtowed his head and said: My Gongzi Guang's body is your body, and I will be responsible for everything after your death.
On Bingzi day in April of this year, Gongzi Guang ambushed the warriors in armor in the basement and prepared a banquet for King Wu. King Liao sent guards to line up from the palace to Gongzi Guang's home. On both sides of the door and steps were King Liao's cronies.

summary:
summary line 1: One hundred and sixty-seven years later, Zhuan Zhu of Wu was recommended to Prince Guang by Wu Zixu. Prince Guang believed he was the rightful heir to the Wu throne, which had passed through brothers instead of to him. He plotted to kill King Liao of Wu. During a banquet, Zhuan Zhu hid a dagger inside a grilled fish and assassinated the king. Prince Guang's warriors then killed the king's guards, and Prince Guang became King Helu of Wu, rewarding Zhuan Zhu's son.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
夹立侍，皆持长铍。
酒既酣，公子光详为足疾，入窟室中，使专诸置首鱼炙之腹中而进之。
既至王前，专诸擘鱼，因以首刺王僚，王僚立死。
左右亦杀专诸，王人扰乱。
公子光出其伏甲以攻王僚之徒。尽灭之，遂自立为王，是为阖闾。
阖闾乃封专诸之子以为上卿，
其后七十余年而晋有豫让之事。
豫让者，晋人也，故尝事范氏及中行氏，而无所知名去而事智伯，智伯甚尊宠之。
及智伯伐赵襄子，赵襄子与韩、魏合谋灭智伯，灭智伯之后而三分其地。
赵襄子最怨智伯，漆其头以为饮器。
豫让遁逃山中，曰： 嗟乎!
士为知己者死，女为说己者容。
今智伯知我，我必为报仇而死，以报智伯，则吾魂魄不愧矣。
乃变名姓为刑人，入宫涂厕，中挟匕首，欲以刺襄子。
襄子如厕，心动，执问涂厕之刑人，则豫让，内持刀兵，曰： 欲为智伯报仇！
左右欲诛之。
translation: 
They stood in the aisle, all holding spears.
When the wine was intoxicating, Prince Guang pretended to have a foot problem, went into the basement, and asked Zhuanzhu to put the dagger into the belly of the grilled fish, and then presented the fish to him.
When he came to King Liao, Zhuan Zhu broke open the fish and stabbed King Liao with his dagger. King Liao died at that time.
The guards also killed Zhuan Zhu, and King Liao's men were in chaos for a while.
Prince Guang sent out an ambush of warriors to attack King Liao's men, and wiped them all out. He then proclaimed himself king, and became King Helu of Wu.
Helu then granted Zhuanzhu's son the title of Shangqing.
Over the next seventy years, Yurang's deeds were recorded in the state of Jin.
Yu Rang was a native of Jin. He had served the Fan family and the Zhongxing family in the past, but he had no reputation. He left them to serve Zhibo, who respected and favored him very much.
When Zhibo attacked Zhao Xiangzi, Zhao Xiangzi, Han and Wei jointly planned to destroy Zhibo. After Zhibo was destroyed, the three families divided his territory.
Zhao Xiangzi hated Zhibo the most, so he painted his skull into a drinking vessel.
Yurang fled to the mountains and said, "Oh!
A man should die for someone who understands him, and a good woman should dress up for someone who loves her.
Now that Uncle Zhi is my confidant, I will definitely avenge him and sacrifice my life to repay Uncle Zhi. Then even if I die, my soul will have nothing to be ashamed of.
So he changed his name and surname, pretended to be a person who had been tortured, entered Zhao Xiang's womb to repair the toilet, and hid a dagger on his body, intending to use it to assassinate Zhao Xiangzi.
Zhao Xiangzi went to the toilet, his heart palpitated, and he questioned the prisoner who was repairing the toilet, and found out that it was Yu Rang, with a sharp knife hidden in his clothes. Yu Rang said: "I want to avenge Zhibo!"
The guards want to kill him.

summary:
summary line 2: Seventy years later, Yu Rang of Jin sought to avenge his master Zhibo, who was killed by Zhao Xiangzi. Yu Rang first attempted assassination while disguised as a prisoner repairing a toilet, but was discovered and released. He then disfigured himself by painting his skin and swallowing charcoal to change his appearance. He hid under a bridge, but Zhao Xiangzi's horse was startled, revealing him. Zhao Xiangzi confronted him, and Yu Rang explained that Zhibo treated him as a national scholar, so he must repay him accordingly. He asked to stab Zhao Xiangzi's robe to fulfill his revenge, then committed suicide.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
杀人避仇，与母、姊如齐，以屠为事。
久之，濮阳严仲子事韩哀侯，与韩相侠累有郤。
严仲子恐诛，亡去，游求人可以报侠累者。
至齐，齐人或言聂政勇敢士也，避仇隐于屠者之间。
严仲子至门请，数反，然后具酒自畅聂政母前。
酒酣，严仲子奉黄金百溢，前为聂政母寿。
聂政惊怪其厚，固谢严仲子：严仲子固进，而聂政谢曰： 臣幸有老母，家贫，客游以为狗屠，可以旦夕得甘毳以养亲。亲供养备，不敢当仲子之赐。
严仲子辟人，因为聂政言曰： 臣有仇，而行游诸侯众矣；然至齐，窃闻足下义甚高，故进百金者，将用为大人粗粝之费，得以交足下之骥，岂敢以有求望邪！
聂政曰： 臣所以降志辱身居市井屠者徒幸以养老母；老母在，政身未敢以许人也。
严仲子固让，聂政竞不肯受也。
然严仲子卒备宾主之礼而去。
久之，聂政母死。既已葬，除服，聂政曰： 嗟乎!
政乃市井之人，鼓刀以屠；而严仲子乃诸侯之卿相也，不远千里，枉车骑而交臣。
臣之所以待之，至浅鲜矣，未有大功可以称者，而严仲子奉百金为亲寿，我虽不受，然是者徒深知政也。
夫贤者以感忿睚眦之意而亲信穷僻之人，而政独安得嘿然而已乎！
且前曰要政，政徒以老母；老母今以天年终，政将为知己者用。
乃遂西至濮阳，见严仲子曰： 前曰所以不许仲子者，徒以亲在；今不幸而母以天年终。
仲子所欲报仇者为谁？
请得从事焉！
translation: 
In order to avoid killing people, he fled to Qi State with his mother and sister, and slaughtered livestock as a profession.
After a long time, Yan Zhongzi of Puyang served Han Aihou and developed a grudge against Xia Lei, the Prime Minister of South Korea.
Yan Zhongzi was afraid of being killed and ran away. He traveled around, looking for someone who could avenge Xia Lei on his behalf.
When he arrived in Qi State, some people in Qi State said that Nie Zheng was a brave man because he avoided his enemies and hid among the butchers.
Yan Zhongzi visited Nie Zheng's house and made many trips. Then he prepared a banquet and personally held a cup to toast Nie Zheng's mother.
When he was very happy after drinking, Yan Zhongzi presented a hundred yi of gold to his mother Nie Zheng to celebrate her birthday.
Nie Zheng was surprised by the generous gift and refused Yan Zhongzi firmly. However, Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it away. Nie Zheng declined and said: I am fortunate to have my mother alive. Although my family is poor, she lives here as a guest and kills pigs and dogs. I buy some sweet and crunchy things in the morning and evening to feed my mother. My mother's support is quite complete, but I dare not accept Zhongzi's reward.
Yan Zhongzi avoided others and took the opportunity to say to Nie Zheng: I have an enemy. I traveled to many vassal states and could not find anyone to avenge me. But when I came to Qi, I heard privately that you are very loyal, so I offered a hundred gold as the cost of some coarse grain for your mother. I can also make friends with you. How dare I ask for anything else!
Nie Zheng said: The reason why I have humbled my ambition and humiliated my status and become a butcher in this market is just to support my mother. While my mother is still alive, I dare not commit myself to others.
Yan Zhongzi insisted on giving it as a gift, but Nie Zheng still refused to accept it.
But Yan Zhongzi finally fulfilled the etiquette of meeting a guest and a host, said goodbye and left.
After a long time, Nie Zheng's mother passed away. After the burial was completed and her mourning clothes were removed, Nie Zheng said: Alas!
I am just a common man, killing pigs and dogs with a knife, but Yan Zhongzi is a minister of the princes, but he has traveled thousands of miles and humiliated his status to befriend me.
My friendship with others is too shallow and insignificant, and there is no great merit that can offset his kindness to me. However, Yan Zhongzi offered a hundred gold coins as a birthday gift to my mother. Although I did not accept it, this incident is enough to show that he knows me very well.
A virtuous man, out of some petty hatred, regards me, a poor butcher living in a remote area, as a confidant. How could I just keep silent and end it like this!
Besides, when you invited me before, I didn’t agree just because my mother was still alive. Now that my mother is enjoying her remaining years, it’s time for me to do my best for those who understand me.
So he went west to Puyang, where he met Yan Zhongzi and said, "The reason why I didn't agree to Zhongzi's invitation before was just because my mother was still alive. Unfortunately, my mother has already reached the end of her life."
Who is the enemy Zhongzi wants to take revenge on?
Please let me do this!

summary:
summary line 3: More than forty years later, Nie Zheng of Zhi was sought out by Yan Zhongzi, who had a grudge against the Korean prime minister Xia Lei. Nie Zheng initially refused because his mother was alive, but after her death, he agreed. He went alone to the Korean court, killed Xia Lei, and then disfigured his own face before dying to protect his family. His sister Nie Rong identified his body, proclaiming his honor, and died of grief beside him.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
秦王复击轲，轲被八创。
轲自知事不就，倚柱而笑箕踞以骂曰： 事所以不成者，以欲生劫之，必得约契以报太子也。
于是左右既前杀轲，秦王不怡者良久。
已而论功，赏群臣及当坐者各有差，而赐夏无且黄金二百溢，曰： 无且爱我，乃以药囊提荆轲也。
于是秦王大怒，益发兵诣赵，诏王翦军以伐燕。十月而拔蓟城。
燕王喜、太子丹等尽率其精兵东保于辽东。
秦将李信追击燕王急，代王嘉乃遗燕王喜书曰： 秦所以尤追燕急者，以太子丹故也。
今王诚杀丹献之秦王，秦王必解，而社稷幸得血食。
其后李信追丹，丹匿衍水中，燕王乃使使斩太子丹，欲献之秦。
秦复进兵攻之。
后五年，秦卒灭燕，虏燕王喜。
其明年，秦并天下，立号为皇帝。
于是秦逐太子丹、荆轲之客，皆亡。
translation: 
The King of Qin attacked Jing Ke one after another, and Jing Ke was stabbed in eight places.
Jing Ke knew that the big thing would not succeed, so he leaned on the pillar and laughed, spread his legs like a dustpan and sat on the ground and cursed: The reason why the big thing didn't succeed is because I want to capture you alive and force you to sign a contract to return the land to the princes in return for the prince.
At this time, the guards rushed forward to kill Jing Ke, but King Qin was not happy for a while.
Afterwards, the merits and demerits were evaluated differently, the rewards given to the officials and the officials responsible for the crimes were dealt with in different ways. He gave Xia Wuji two hundred yi of gold and said, "Wuji loved me, so he threw the medicine bag at Jing Ke."
So the King of Qin became furious, sent more troops to the State of Zhao, ordered Wang Jian's army to attack the State of Yan, and captured Jicheng in October.
King Xi of Yan, Prince Dan and others led all the elite troops to retreat eastward to Liaodong.
Qin general Li Xin pursued the King of Yan closely, and Dai Wangjia wrote to King Yan, saying: The reason why the Qin army is pursuing the Yan army with great urgency is because of Prince Dan.
Now if you kill Prince Dan and offer his head to the King of Qin, you will definitely be forgiven by the King of Qin, and Sheji may be lucky enough to be sacrificed.
After that, Li Xin led his army to chase Prince Dan, who was hiding in the Yanshui River. King Yan sent an envoy to kill Prince Dan and prepared to sacrifice his head to the King of Qin.
The king of Qin marched again to attack Yan.
Five years later, Qin finally destroyed Yan and captured King Xi of Yan.
The next year, King Qin annexed the world and made him emperor.
So the retainers of Prince Dan and Jing Ke were compiled, and all the retainers fled.

summary:
summary line 4: Two hundred and twenty years later, Jing Ke of Wei was recruited by Prince Dan of Yan to assassinate the King of Qin. Jing Ke gained the king's trust by presenting the head of a fugitive general and a map of Yan territory. During the audience, he attempted to stab the king but failed, being wounded and killed. The king then attacked Yan, eventually destroying it. Jing Ke's friend Gao Jianli later attempted to assassinate the First Emperor with a weighted lute but also failed and was executed. The text concludes with the historian's commentary, affirming that despite varying outcomes, these assassins' intentions were clear and their reputations endure.

