Chunk 0: 
original: 
淮南厉王长，高帝少子也，其母故赵王张敖美人。
高帝八年，从东垣过赵，赵王献美人，厉王母也，幸，有身。
赵王不敢内宫，为筑外宫舍之。
及贯高等谋反事觉，并逮治王，尽捕王母兄弟美人，系之河内。
厉王母亦系，告吏曰： 日得幸上，有子。
吏以闻，上方怒赵，未及理厉王母。
厉王母弟赵兼因辟阳侯言吕后，吕后妒，不肯白，辟阳侯不强争。
厉王母已生厉生，恚，即自杀。
吏奉厉王诣上，上悔，令吕后母之，而葬其母真定。
真定，厉王母家县也。十一年，淮南王布反，上自将击灭布，即立子长为淮南子。
王早失母，常附吕后，孝惠、吕后时以故得幸无患，然常心怨辟阳侯，不敢发。
translation: 
King Li of Huainan, with a long name, was the youngest son of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty. His mother used to be the beauty of King Zhao Zhang Ao.
In the eighth year of Emperor Gao's reign, Emperor Gao passed by the State of Zhao from Dongyuan. King Tong presented a beautiful woman to Emperor Gao. This was King Li's mother. She became pregnant after being favored.
King Zhao did not dare to let her return to the palace, so he built an outer palace for her to live in.
When the rebellion by Guangao and others was discovered and King Zhao was implicated, King Tong's mother, brothers and beauties were all arrested and imprisoned in Hanoi.
King Li's mother was also imprisoned. She told the officials: I was once favored by the emperor and had a son.
After hearing this, the officials told the emperor that the emperor was very angry with King Zhao and ignored King Li's mother.
King Li's uncle Chang Jian told Empress Lu through Piyanghou. Empress Lu was jealous and refused to defend them, and Piyanghou did not fight for him.
Queen Li's mother committed suicide out of resentment and anger after giving birth to Queen Li.
The officials sent King Li to the emperor. The emperor regretted it very much and asked Queen Lu to raise King Li, and she was buried in the county where King Li's mother lived.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Huainan, Yingbu, rebelled. The emperor personally led his troops to destroy Yingbu, so he made his son Liu Chang the king of Huainan.
King Huainan lost his mother when he was young and often relied on Empress Lu. During the reigns of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu, he was favored for this reason and had no trouble. However, he often resented Marquis Piyang in his heart, but he did not dare to show it.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及孝文初即位，自以为最亲，骄蹇，数不奉法。
上宽赦之。
三年，入朝，甚横。
从上入苑猎，与上同辇，常谓上 大兄 。
厉王有材力，力扛鼎，乃往请辟阳侯。
辟阳侯出见之，即自袖金椎椎之，命从者刑之。
驰诣阙下，肉袒而谢曰： 臣母不当坐赵时事，辟阳侯力能得之吕后，不争，罪一也。
赵王如意子母无罪，吕后杀之，辟阳侯不争，罪二也。
吕后王诸吕，欲以危刘氏，辟阳侯不争，罪三也。
臣谨为天下诛贼，报母之仇，伏阙下请罪。
文帝伤其志，为亲故不治，赦之。
translation: 
In the early days of Emperor Xiaowen's accession to the throne, he thought he was the closest person to the royal family and was proud and indulgent, breaking the law several times.
The emperor forgave him.
In the third year of Emperor Wen's reign, he behaved very arrogantly when he came to court.
He followed the emperor to the royal gardens for hunting, rode in the same car with the emperor, and often called the emperor "big brother".
King Li was powerful and could lift the cauldron, so he went to pay homage to Marquis Piyang.
When Marquis Piyang came out to receive him, King Li took out the iron spine hidden in his sleeve and struck Marquis Piyang, and ordered his followers to chop off his head.
Then he drove his horse to the emperor's palace, took off his shirt, exposed his arms, and apologized to the emperor, saying: "My mother should not have committed a crime and been imprisoned for visiting the king. Marquis Piyang had the ability to persuade Empress Lu to save her, but he did not try his best to save her. This is the first crime."
King Zhao Ruyi and his mother were both innocent. Empress Lu murdered them, and Marquis Piyang did not try his best to dissuade them. This was the second crime.
Empress Lu wanted to harm our Liu family by conferring the title of king on the Lu family. Marquis Piyang did not try to dissuade her. This is the third crime.
I just killed bad guys for the people of the world and avenged my mother. I am willing to confess my sin to Your Majesty.
Emperor Wen took pity on him because he was avenging his relatives and pardoned his sin.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
当是时，自薄太后及太子诸大臣皆惮厉王，厉王以此归国益恣，不用汉法，出入警跸，称制，自作法令，数上书不逊顺。
文帝重自切责之。
时帝舅薄昭为将军，尊重，上令昭予厉王书谏数之，曰：
窃闻大王刚直而勇，慈惠而厚，贞信多断，是天以圣人之资奉大王也甚盛，不可不察。
今大王所行，不称天资。
皇帝初即位，易侯邑在淮南者，大王不肯。
皇帝卒易之，使大王得三县之实，甚厚。
大王以未尝与皇帝相见，求入朝见，未毕昆弟之欢，而杀列侯以自为名。
皇帝不使吏与其间，赦大王，甚厚。
汉法，二千石缺，辄言汉补，大王逐汉所置，而请自置相、二千石。
皇帝骫天下正法而许大王，甚厚。
translation: 
At that time, everyone from Queen Mother Bo to the Crown Prince and all the ministers were afraid of King Li. As a result, King Li returned to the feudal state and became more arrogant and indulgent. He did not obey the laws of the Han Dynasty. He had left and right guards and clear roads like the emperor when he came in and out. He made his own laws and showed disrespect when writing to the emperor several times.
Emperor Wen could not blame him personally.
At that time, the emperor's uncle Bo Zhao was a general. Emperor Wen respected him and ordered Bo Zhao to write to King Li, admonishing him many times:
I heard that the king is upright and brave, charitable and generous, loyal and decisive. This is God using the talents of a saint to greatly reward the king. You must not understand these.
The king's behavior today is inconsistent with this God-given wisdom.
The emperor had just ascended the throne and wanted to transfer the title of Hou Yi in Huainan to another place, but the king said it was unnecessary.
The emperor finally changed the title, and the king received the benefits of three counties, which was very generous.
The king asked to enter the court to see the emperor because he had never seen him before, but before he could finish talking about his brotherhood, he killed the princes.
The emperor did not send officials to investigate the matter and pardoned the king. This was very generous to the king.
The Han law stipulates that if there is a shortage of officials of two thousand stones, the emperor must report to the court to send someone to supplement them. However, the king expelled the officials appointed by the court and requested that he establish a prime minister and two thousand stone officials.
The emperor violated the solemn laws of the world and allowed the king to do this. This is very generous to the king!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
大王欲属国为布衣，守冢真定。
皇帝不许，使大王毋失南面之尊，甚厚。
大王宜日夜奉法度，修贡职，以称皇帝之厚德，今乃轻言恣行，以负谤于天下，甚非计也。
夫大王以千里为宅居，以万民为臣妾，此高皇帝之厚德也。
高帝蒙霜露，沫风雨，赴矢石，野战攻城，身被创痍，以为子孙成万世之业，艰难危苦甚矣，大王不思先帝之艰苦，日夜怵惕，修身正行，养牺牲，丰洁粢盛，奉祭祀，以无忘先帝之功德，而欲属国为布衣，甚过。
且夫贪让国土之名，轻废先帝之业，不可以言孝。
父为之基，而不能守，不贤。
不求守长陵，而求之真定，先母后父，不谊。
数逆天子之令，不顺。
言节行以高兄，无礼。
translation: 
The king wants to abandon his feudal state and become a commoner, guarding the ancestral graves of Zhending.
The emperor disagreed and asked the king not to lose his status as King of Huainan. This was very kind to the king!
Your Majesty, you should obey the laws day and night and be loyal to your duties, so as to live up to the emperor's love for you. But now you speak arrogantly, do whatever you want, and are slandered by everyone in the world. It is not a wise move to send you away.
The king controls thousands of miles and rules over thousands of people. This is Emperor Gao's kindness to you.
Emperor Gao dined and slept in the open, rain or shine, braved the rain, arrows and rocks, fought in the field and attacked the city, and was seriously injured. He created a great cause for future generations. It was extremely difficult and dangerous. Your Majesty does not think about the difficulties of your ancestors in starting a business. He always reflects and is vigilant, cultivates his moral integrity, raises livestock, harvests rice, and prepares many sacrifices to worship his ancestors, so as not to forget the great kindness and virtue of his ancestors. However, your Majesty wants to abandon his feudal state and become a common man. This is a big mistake.
Moreover, coveting the reputation of surrendering the country and abandoning the great cause of the late emperor is unfilial.
Our fathers conquered the country. If your children cannot hold on, this is unworthy.
It is unjust to go to Zhending instead of guarding Changling, and to put mother before father.
It was disobedient to disobey the emperor's orders many times.
It is rude to guard one's mother's grave just to show one's superiority over one's brothers.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
幸臣有罪，大者立断，小者肉刑，不仁。
贵布衣一剑之任，贱王侯之位，不知。
不好学问大道，触情忘行，不祥。
此八者，危亡之路也，而大王行之，弃南面之位，奋诸、贲之勇，常出入危亡之路，臣之所见，高皇帝之神必不庙食于大王之手，明白。
昔者，周公诛管叔，放蔡叔，以安周；齐桓杀其弟，以反国；秦始皇杀两弟，迁其母，以安秦；顷王亡代，高帝夺之国，以便事；济北举兵，皇帝诛之，以安汉。
故周、齐行之于古，秦、汉用之于今，大王不察古今之所以安国便事，而欲以亲戚之意望于太上，不可得也。
亡之诸侯，游宦事人，及舍匿者，论皆有法。
其在王所，吏主者坐。
今诸侯子为吏者，御史主；为军吏者，中尉主；客出入殿门者，卫尉大行主；诸从蛮夷来归谊及以亡名数自占者，内史县令主。
相欲委下吏，无与其祸，不可得也。
王若不改，汉系大王邸，论相以下，为之奈何？
夫堕父大业，退为布衣所哀，幸臣皆伏法而诛，为天下笑，以羞先帝之德，甚为大王不取也。
宜急改操易行，上书谢罪，曰： 臣不幸早失先帝，少孤，吕氏之世，未尝忘死。
陛下即位，臣怙恩德骄盈，行多不轨。
追念罪过，恐惧，伏地待诛不敢起。
translation: 
If a favored minister is guilty, he may be punished by asking for execution, or he may be punished with physical punishment at the most serious level. This is unkind.
It is unwise to regard being a commoner as a high priority and regard the status of a prince as low.
It is unlucky not to work hard to study and delve into the great road, but to act arbitrarily based on emotional impulse.
The above eight points are all dangerous paths, and you, my king, have implemented them all. Abandoning the position of king, showing the bravery of Zhuan Zhu and Meng Ben, often walking in and out of dangerous roads. In my opinion, the incense of Emperor Gaozu can no longer be inherited with you. Please think clearly, your Majesty.
In the past, the king of Zhou killed Uncle Guan and exiled Uncle Cai to stabilize the Zhou Dynasty; Duke Huan of Qi killed his brothers and returned to Qi. Qin Shihuang killed his two younger brothers and moved his mother to Xianyang Palace to stabilize the Qin state; King Liu Zhong of Qing fled when the Xiongnu attacked Daidi, and Emperor Gao deprived him of his feudal state in order to enforce national laws; King Xingju of Jibei rebelled with his troops, and the emperor killed him to stabilize the Han Dynasty.
Therefore, in ancient times, the kings of Zhou and the Marquis of Qi did this. Today, the kings of Qin and Han emperors still use this method. The kings do not understand the methods of governing the country and bringing peace to the world in the past. Instead, they expect the emperor to be lenient and boundless because of their kinship. This is impossible.
Anyone who flees to the vassal states or harbors criminals will be punished by law.
Even in the king's place, all the officials in charge must bear the responsibility.
Nowadays, those who are officials in the vassal states are under the supervision of the censor; those who are military officials are under the supervision of lieutenants; guests who come in and out of the palace are under the supervision of Weiwei and Daxing; those who come from minority areas and have no names in the household registration book and report their household registration are under the supervision of internal history and county magistrates.
The Prime Minister of the Kingdom wants to pass the responsibility to the lower palace. It is impossible for him to have no responsibility.
If the king does not correct his mistakes, what will you do when Moting imprisons the king in the palace and interrogates people below the prime minister?
Ruining my father's great cause, becoming a pitiful person for the common people, having all my favorite ministers punished, and being laughed at by everyone in the world is a disgrace to the late emperor's merits. I think your Majesty should not be like this.
You should immediately change your ways, write a letter of apology to the emperor, and tell him: Unfortunately, I lost my father at an early age and was lonely since I was a child. When the Lu family was in power, I was often threatened with death.
After you came to the throne, Your Majesty, I relied on your kindness to be extravagant and licentious, and did many unscrupulous things.
Thinking about the mistakes I had made, I was filled with fear. Now I am lying on the ground waiting for the Fa-rectification and dare not get up.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
皇帝闻之必喜。
大王昆弟欢欣于上，群臣皆得延寿于上；上下得宜，海内常安。
愿孰计而疾行之。
行之有疑，祸如发矢，不可追已。
王得书不说。
六年，令男子但等七十人与棘蒲侯柴武太子奇谋，以辇车四十乘反谷口，令人使闽越、匈奴。
事觉，治之，乃使使召淮南王。
王至长安，丞相张苍，典客冯敬行御史大夫事，与宗正、廷尉杂奏： 长废先帝法，不听天子诏，居处无度，为黄屋盖拟天子，擅为法令，不用法令。
及所置吏，以其郎中春为丞相，收聚汉诸侯人及有罪亡者，匿为居，为治家室，赐与财物、爵禄、田宅，爵或至关内侯，奉以二千石所当得。
translation: 
The emperor will definitely be happy after hearing this.
Your Majesty, if your brothers above are happy, your ministers below will live longer. If there is harmony between above and below, the world will be at peace.
May your Majesty accept my suggestion and implement it immediately.
If you hesitate and refuse to implement it, disaster will be like an arrow that has been shot out and cannot be taken back.
King Li was very unhappy after receiving the remonstrance.
In the sixth year, he sent Dan and other seventy men to conspire with Chai Qi, the prince of Chaiwu, the Marquis of Jipu, and sent forty military chariots back to the valley, and sent people to Minyue and Xiongnu.
After the incident was discovered, the emperor wanted to punish him, so he sent someone to summon King Huainan to Beijing.
After the King of Huainan arrived in Chang'an, Prime Minister Zhang Cang and Dianke Feng Jing acted on behalf of the imperial censor. After interrogating Zong Zheng and Ting Wei, they reported: Liu Chang abandoned the laws of the late emperor and did not obey the orders of Emperor Shao. He lived extravagantly. He made chariot and horse umbrellas that could be compared with those of the emperor. He made laws without implementing the laws of the Han Dynasty.
He appointed officials on his own, made Lang Zhongchun the prime minister, gathered the guilty fugitives among the princes and kings of the desert, made them hide and arranged residences for them, managed their families, gave them money and items, granted them titles, and gave them land and houses as salaries. Some were as high as Guannai Marquis, and were given a salary of two thousand dan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
大夫但、士伍开章等七十人与棘蒲侯太子奇谋反，欲以危宗庙社稷，谋使闽越及匈奴发其兵。
事觉，长安尉奇等往捕开章，长匿不予，与故中尉蕳忌谋，杀以闭口，为棺椁衣衾，葬之肥陵，谩吏曰 不知安在 。又阳聚土，树表其上曰 开章死，葬此下 。
及长身自贼杀无罪者一人；令吏论杀无罪者六人；为亡命弃市诈捕命者以除罪；擅罪人，无告劾系治城旦以上十四人；赦免罪人死罪十八人，城旦春以下五十八人；赐人爵关内侯以下九十四人。
前日长病，陛下心忧之，使使者赐枣脯，长不肯见拜使者。
南海民处庐江界中者反，淮南吏卒击之。陛下遣使者赍帛五千匹，以赐吏卒劳苦者。
长不欲受赐，谩曰 无劳苦者 。
南海王织上书献璧帛皇帝，忌擅燔其书，不以闻。
吏请召治忌，长不遣，谩曰 忌病 。
长所犯不轨，当弃市，臣请论如法 。
translation: 
Seventy people, including Dan, the doctor, and Kaizhang, who had lost his official title due to guilt, and Chai Qi, the prince of Jipuhou, conspired to rebel, endangering the national power of the Han Dynasty, and planned to let the Minyue and Huns send troops.
After the incident was revealed, Chang'an Wei Qi and others went to arrest Kaizhang. Liu Chang hid him instead of handing him over to the officials, and conspired with the former lieutenant Lin Ji to kill Kaizhang. They prepared a coffin and clothes for him, buried him in Feiling, deceived the officials sent by the court and said: I don't know where he is, and built a tomb for him.
In addition, Liu Chang secretly killed an innocent person; ordered officials to kill six innocent people; made those guilty who should be punished in public hide; deceived the arresting officials in order to absolve them of their crimes; and gave people without authorization Fourteen people were sentenced to death for crimes above Chengdu without reporting the crime; 18 people were pardoned for crimes that should have been punished by death; 58 people were pardoned for crimes that should have been less than Chengdu; 94 people were given titles below Guannei Marquis.
Liu Chang fell ill a few days ago. His Majesty was very worried and sent an envoy to deliver preserved dates. However, Liu Chang refused to go out to see the envoy sent by the emperor.
The common people in the Nanhai area on the border of the Lujiang River made trouble. The King of Huainan sent troops to attack the rebels. His Majesty sent an envoy to deliver fifty pieces of silk as rewards to those who worked hard among the officers and soldiers.
Liu Chang did not want to accept the reward, but said contemptuously: "There is no hard work."
Wang Zhi of Nanhai wrote a letter to the emperor asking for jade and silk, but Qu Ji burned the letter without reporting it to the emperor.
Officials asked to summon Qu Ji to Chang'an, but Liu Chang refused to let Lin Ji come, saying that "Yin Ji was ill."
The crime Liu Chang committed should be beheaded in the market, and we request that he be sentenced in accordance with the law.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
制曰： 朕不忍置法于王，其与列侯、吏二千石议。
列侯、吏二千石臣婴等四十三人议，皆曰： 宜论如法。
制曰： 其赦长死罪，废勿王。
有司奏： 请处蜀严道邛邮，遣其子、子母从居，县为筑盖家室，皆日三食，给薪菜盐炊食器席蓐。
制曰： 食长，给肉日五斤，酒二斗。
令故美人、材人得幸者十人从居。
于是尽诛所与谋者。
乃遣长，载以辎车，令县次传。
爰盎谏曰： 上素骄淮南王，不为置严相傅，以故至此。
且淮南王为人刚，今暴摧折之，臣恐其逢雾露病死，陛下有杀弟之名，奈何！
上曰： 吾特苦之耳，令复之。
淮南王谓侍者曰： 谁谓乃公勇者？
吾以骄不闻过，故至此。
乃不食而死。
县传者不敢发车封。
translation: 
The emperor issued an edict saying: I cannot bear to punish King Li, so I should discuss it with the princes and the two thousand officials.
After discussion, the princes, 2,000 officials and 43 officials and infants all agreed that the matter should be dealt with according to law.
The emperor ordered: Then pardon Liu Chang's death penalty and dethrone him from the throne.
The officials reported: I request Zaoshang to exile him to Qiongdi, Yandao County, Shu County, and order his children and their mother to live with them. The Yandao County magistrate can build a house for them, and provide firewood, vegetable salt, cooking utensils and mats for each meal.
The emperor ordered: Supply Liu Chang with food, give him five kilograms of meat and two measures of wine.
He ordered ten favored concubines of his past to live with him.
So all the people who conspired with Liu Chang were killed.
He dispatched Liu Chang and sent them heavy-loaded carriages and horses, and all the counties they passed through were equipped with carriages to transport them one by one.
Yuan Ang remonstrated with the emperor and said: The emperor has always indulged the King of Huainan and did not set up strict prime ministers and tutors, which has led to this situation today.
The King of Huainan has an upright character, and now the Emperor has suddenly given him such a big blow. I am afraid that he could not withstand the fog, cold and dew and died of illness on the road. Then His Majesty has the reputation of killing his brothers. What should I do?
The emperor said: I am also troubled by this. I just let him regret himself and recalled him.
The King of Huainan asked the waiter: Who said you, me, and I are brave?
I ended up like this because I was arrogant and didn't know my fault.
So he stopped eating and starved to death.
The county escort did not dare to open the prison van.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
至雍，雍令发之，以死闻。
上悲哭，谓爰盎曰： 吾不从公言，卒亡淮南王。
盎曰： 淮南王不可奈何，愿陛下自宽。
上曰： 为之奈何？
曰： 独斩丞相、御史以谢天下乃可。
上即令丞相、御史逮诸县传淮南王不发封馈侍者，皆弃市，乃以列侯葬淮南王于雍，置守冢三十家。
孝文八年，怜淮南王，王有子四人，年皆七八岁，乃封子安为阜陵侯，子勃为安阳侯，子赐为阳周侯，子良为东城侯。
十二年，民有作歌歌淮南王曰： 一尺布，尚可缝；一斗粟，尚可春。
兄弟二人，不相容！
上闻之曰，昔尧、舜放逐骨肉，周公杀管、蔡，天下称圣，不以私害公。
天下岂以为我贪淮南地邪！
translation: 
When they arrived at Yongxian County, the magistrate of Yongxian County opened the prison car and reported to the emperor that King Huainan was dead.
When the emperor heard about it, he cried sadly and said to Yuan An: I didn't listen to you, and the result was that King Huainan died.
Yuan Ang said: The King of Huainan is already like this. There is no other way. Please be at ease, Your Majesty.
The emperor asked: What should we do?
He replied: Only by killing the prime minister and censor can we apologize to the world.
The emperor immediately ordered the prime minister and censors to arrest those who did not deliver food and food to the king of Huainan from various counties and beheaded them on the street. So the King of Huainan was buried in Yongdi according to the treatment of the princes, and thirty families were arranged to guard his tomb.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor took pity on King Huainan. He still had four sons, all seven or eight years old, so he named his sons Liu An the Marquis of Fuling, Liu Bo the Marquis of Anyang, Liu Ci the Marquis of Yangzhou, and Liu Liang the Marquis of Shucheng.
In the twelfth year, there was a folk song about the King of Huainan, saying: A foot of cloth can be sewed; a bushel of millet can be pounded.
The two brothers are incompatible!
After hearing this, the emperor said: In the past, Yao and Shun exiled their own flesh and blood, and Zhou Gong killed Guan Shu and Cai Shu. The whole world called them saints, and they would not harm the national interests for selfish reasons.
How can people in the world think that I am coveting the land of King Huainan?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
乃徙城阳王王淮南故地，而追尊谥淮南王为厉王，置园如诸侯仪。
十六年，上怜淮南王废法不轨，自使失国早夭，乃徙淮南王喜复王故城阳，而立厉王三子王淮南故地，三分之：阜陵侯安为淮南王，安阳侯勃为衡山王，阳周侯赐为庐江王，东城侯良前薨，无后。
孝景三年，吴、楚七国反，吴使者至淮南，王欲发兵应之。
其相曰： 王必欲应吴，臣愿为将。
王乃属之。
相已将兵，因城守，不听王而为汉。
汉亦使曲城侯将兵救淮南，淮南以故得完。
吴使者至庐江，庐江王不应，而往来使越；至衡山，衡山王坚守无二心。
孝景四年，吴、楚已破，衡山王朝，上以为卢信，乃劳苦之曰： 南方卑湿。
徙王王于济北以褒之。
及薨，遂赐谥为贞王。
庐江王以边越，数使使相交，徙为衡山王，王江北。
translation: 
So King Chengyang was moved to the old land of Huainan to become king, and King Mi of Huainan was named King Li, and his cemetery was set up according to the etiquette of the princes.
In the 16th year, the emperor took pity on King Huainan because he abolished Han law without authorization and behaved indulgently, which caused him to lose his feudal status and died at an early age. Therefore, he moved King Liu Xi of Huainan back to Chengyang as king, and established King Li's three sons as kings in his hometown of Huainan. They are: Fuling Hou Liu An as the King of Huainan, Anyang Hou Liu Bo as the King of Hengshan, and Yangzhou Hou Liu Ci as the King of Lujiang. Liu Liang, the Marquis of Shucheng, died young and had no descendants.
In the third year of Xiaojing's reign, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled. Wu's envoys went to the King of Huainan, who wanted to send troops to meet the King of Wu.
His prime minister said: If your Majesty must raise an army with King Wu, I would like to be a general.
The king of Huainan then handed over the army to the prime minister.
After the prime minister had led the army, he held fast to the city and refused to obey the king's orders and went to the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty also sent the Marquis of Qucheng to lead troops to rescue the Huainan Kingdom, so the Huainan Kingdom was preserved.
The envoy of the King of Wu went to Lujiang, but the King of Lujiang did not respond, so the envoy came to Yue again; when they arrived at Hengshan, the King of Hengshan stood firm and had no intention of rebelling against the Han.
In the fourth year of Xiaojing's reign, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu were wiped out. King Hengshan came to see the emperor. The emperor thought he was loyal and trustworthy, and comforted him by saying: The south is low and humid.
So the king of Hengshan moved to Jibei and became king to praise him.
When he died, he was given the title Zhen Wang.
The King of Lujiang was located on the border with Yue. He sent envoys to interact with Vietnam many times. Later, he was changed to the King of Hengshan and became king in the Jiangbei area.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
淮南王安为人好书，鼓琴，不喜戈猎狗马驰骋，亦欲以行阴德拊循百姓，流名誉。
招致宾客方术之士数千人，作为《内书》二十一篇，《外书》甚众，又有《中篇》八卷，言神仙黄白之术，亦二十余万言。
时武帝方好艺文，以安属为诸父，辩博善为文辞，甚尊重之。
每为报书及赐，常召司马相如等视草乃遣。
初，安入朝，献所作《内篇》，新出，上爱秘之。
使为《离骚传》，旦受诏，日食时上。
又献《颂德》及《长安都国颂》。
每宴见，谈说得失及方技赋颂，昏莫然后罢。
安初入朝，雅善太尉武安侯，武安侯迎之霸上，与语曰： 方今上无太子，王亲高皇帝孙，行仁义，天下莫不闻。
宫车一日晏驾，非王尚谁立者！
淮南王大喜，厚遗武安侯宝赂。
其群臣宾客，江淮间多轻薄，以厉王迁死感激安。
translation: 
Liu An, the king of Huainan, likes reading and playing the piano, but does not like hunting or riding horses. He plans to rely on his kindness to appease the people and leave a good reputation.
He gathered thousands of guests and travelers from all over the world to compile twenty-one "Inner Books", more "Outer Books", and eight volumes of "Middle Chapters". The book discussing the techniques of immortal alchemy also has more than 200,000 words.
At that time, Emperor Wu also loved literature. As uncles, Liu An and others were eloquent and good at diction, so the emperor respected him very much.
Every time he wrote a letter or received a reward, the emperor often ordered Sima Xiangru and others to read the draft first and then copy it and send it.
At first, when Liu An entered the court, he presented his "Neipian" to the emperor. Because the book was a new work, the emperor kept it secretly.
Let him write "Li Sao Zhuan", receive the edict in the morning, and submit it to the emperor during lunch.
He also presented "Ode" and "Ode to the Capital of Chang'an" to the emperor.
Every time we have a banquet to meet the emperor, we talk about ancient and modern gains and losses, folk skills, and poems, and they don't stop until the evening.
Liu Ang just entered the court and was very friendly to the Taiwei Wu'anhou. When Wu'anhou greeted him, he said to him: Now the emperor has no prince. The king is the grandson of Emperor Gao. He is benevolent and righteous, and everyone in the world knows it.
Once the emperor dies, who else can he stand but you?
The King of Huainan was very happy, so he gave Marquis Wuan jewelry and other items.
Most of his ministers and guests were frivolous and mean people from the Jianghuai area. They died because of King Li's migration, so they were extremely grateful to Liu An.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
建元六年，彗星见，淮南王心怪之。
或说王曰： 先吴军时，彗星出，长数尺，然尚流血千里。
今彗星竟天，天下兵当大起。
王心以为上无太子，天下有变，诸侯并争，愈益治攻战具，积金钱赂遗郡国。游士妄作妖言阿谀王，王喜，多赐予之。
王有女陵，彗有口。
王爱陵，多予金钱，为中诇长安，约结上左右。
元朔二年，上赐淮南王几杖，不朝。
后荼爱幸，生子迁为太子，取皇太后外孙修成君女为太子妃。
王谋为反具，畏太子妃知而内泄事，乃与太子谋，令诈不爱，三月不同席。
王阳怒太子，闭使与妃同内，终不近妃。
妃求去，王乃上书谢归之。
后荼、太子迁及女陵擅国权，夺民田宅，妄致系人。
太子学用剑，自以为人莫及，闻郎中雷被巧，召与戏，被壹再辞让，误中太子。太子怒，被恐。
此时有欲从军者辄诣长安，被即愿奋击匈奴。
太子数恶被，王使郎中令斥免，欲以禁后。
元朔五年，被遂亡之长安，上书自明。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, a comet appeared, and Wang Xinhuo of Huainan felt strange.
Someone said to the King of Huainan: Earlier when the King of Wu sent troops, a comet appeared that was several feet long, so he launched a campaign and blood flowed thousands of miles.
Now comets are so long that they can reach the sky, and a great war is about to happen in the world.
The King of Huainan thought that the emperor had no crown prince, and if there was chaos in the world, the princes would fight for it, so he wanted to increase the army's equipment and accumulate money to bribe other counties. The tourists flattered the King of Huainan with nonsense words, which made him happy, so he gave them many rewards.
The King of Huainan has a daughter named Liu Ling, who is intelligent and eloquent.
The King of Huainan loved Liu Ling very much and gave her a lot of money to secretly spy in Chang'an and get to know the emperor's ministers.
In the second year of Yuanshuo, the emperor gave King Huainan several cases and a walking stick, so that he did not have to worship the emperor.
Queen Tu was favored and gave birth to a son Liu Qian, who was established as the crown prince and married the daughter of the Queen Mother's grandson Xiu Chengjun as the crown princess.
The King of Huainan conspired to rebel. He was afraid that the Crown Princess would know the inside story and leak the rebellion, so he planned with the Crown Prince and asked him to pretend that he didn't love her and not eat at the same table for three months.
King Huainan pretended to be angry with the prince and locked him up with the princess, but the prince still did not get close to the princess.
The princess asked to leave, so King Huainan wrote a letter to apologize to the emperor and asked to let her go back.
Queen Tu, Prince Liu Qian and daughter Liu Ling took over the power in the country, seized people's fields and houses, and arrested people at will.
The prince was learning to dance the sword, and he thought that no one could surpass him. He heard that the doctor Lei was good at sword dancing, so he summoned him to compete with him. Lei Ben gave in repeatedly, and then accidentally hit the prince. The prince was furious, and Lei Ben was frightened.
At this time, it happened that someone who was willing to join the army came to Chang'an, and Lei was immediately asked to attack the Huns.
The prince slandered Lei Quan many times, and the king of Huainan sent a doctor to order him not to go, so that future generations would not dare to imitate him.
In the fifth year of Yuanshuo, Lei was fled to Chang'an and wrote a letter to the emperor explaining the matter.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
事下廷尉、河南。
河南治，逮淮南太子，王、王后计欲毋遣太子，遂发兵。
计未定，犹与十余日。
会有诏即讯太子。淮南相怒寿春丞留太子逮不遣，劾不敬。
王请相，相不听。
王使人上书告相，事下廷尉治。
从迹连王，王使人候司。
汉公卿请逮捕治王，王恐，欲发兵。
太子迁谋曰： 汉使即逮王，令人衣卫士衣，持戟居王旁，有非是者，即刺杀之，臣亦使人刺杀淮南中尉，乃举兵，未晚也。
是时上不许公卿，而遣汉中尉宏即讯验王。王视汉中尉颜色和，问斥雷被事耳，自度无何，不发。
中尉还，以闻。
公卿治者曰： 淮南王安雍阏求奋击匈奴者雷被等，格明诏，当弃市。
诏不许。
请废勿王，上不许。
请削五县，可二县。
使中尉宏赦其罪，罚以削地。
中尉入淮南界，宣言赦王。
王初闻公卿请诛之，未知得削地，闻汉使来，恐其捕之，乃与太子谋如前计。
中尉至，即贺王，王以故不发。
其后自伤曰： 吉行仁义见削地，寡人甚耻之。
translation: 
The matter was investigated and handled by Tingwei and Henan County.
Henan ordered to arrest the prince of Huainan King. The king and queen of Huainan decided not to send the prince to Henan, so they rebelled.
The plan has not been made yet and I have been hesitating for more than ten days.
At this time, the emperor issued an order to interrogate the prince in Huainan. The Huainan King's prime minister, Shouchun Cheng, complied with the Huainan King's intention and only arrested the prince instead of sending him away. He was angry and impeached Shouchun Cheng for disrespecting the emperor.
The King of Huainan asked the Prime Minister for help, but the Prime Minister refused to listen.
The King of Huainan sent a letter to the emperor to inform the prime minister, and the matter was investigated and handled by Tingwei.
During the review, the matter involved King Huainan, who sent people to the capital to inquire closely about the matter.
The princes of Mo asked the emperor to arrest and punish King Huainan. King Huainan was frightened and wanted to send troops to rebel.
Prince Liu Qian planned and said: The Han sent envoys to arrest the king. We can have people put on the clothes of guards and stand beside you with weapons. If they find bad guys, we will assassinate them. I also sent people to assassinate Lieutenant Huainan. It is not too late to send troops again.
At this time, the emperor did not agree to the request of the minister, and sent Lieutenant Hong of the Han Dynasty to interrogate King Huainan on the spot. Seeing that the interrogator's face was gentle, King Huainan only asked about the reprimand and the lei. He guessed that there was no danger, so he did not send troops.
After the lieutenant returned, he reported to the emperor.
The ministers said: Liu An, the king of Huainan, stopped Lei Fei who asked to attack the Xiongnu and delayed the imperial edict. He should be beheaded.
The emperor issued an edict not to allow it.
The ministers also requested that the King of Huainan be deposed, but the emperor did not agree.
The emperor requested to reduce the five counties of the feudal state, and the emperor agreed to reduce the number of two counties.
Lieutenant Hong was sent to pardon his crime and punish him by reducing his fiefdom.
The lieutenant entered the territory of Huainan and announced that the emperor would pardon the king of Huainan.
At first, he heard that the minister requested to kill him, but he didn't know that he would only reduce the fiefdom. So when he heard the Han envoys coming, he was afraid that they were coming to arrest him, so he and the prince planned to act according to the previous rebellion plan.
Lieutenant, he congratulated the King of Huainan, and the King of Huainan did not send troops because of this.
Later he said sadly: I practice benevolence and righteousness but my fiefdom has been reduced. I feel very shameful.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
为反谋益甚。
诸使者道长安来，为妄言，言上无男，即喜：言汉廷治，有男，即怒，以为妄言，非也。
日夜与左吴等按舆地图，部署兵所从入。
王曰： 上无太子，宫车即晏驾，大臣必征胶东王，不即常山王，诸侯并争，吾可以无备乎！
且吾高帝孙，亲行仁义，陛下遇我厚，吾能忍之；万世之后，吾宁能北面事竖子乎！
王有孽子不害，最长，王不爱，后、太子皆不以为子兄数。不害子建，材高有气，常怨望太子不省其父。
时，诸侯皆得分子弟为侯，淮南王有两子，一子为太子，而建父不得为侯。
阴结交，欲害太子，以其父代之。
太子知之，数捕系笞建。
建具知太子之欲谋杀汉中尉，即使所善寿春严正上书天子曰： 毒药苦口利病，忠言逆耳利行。
translation: 
The desire to create is even stronger.
The envoys came from Chang'an and talked frivolously, saying that the emperor had no son, and he was very happy. He got angry when he said that the court was being governed and that the emperor had a son, and he thought it was nonsense and untrue.
The King of Huainan and Zuo Wu and others deployed the army's offensive route day and night according to the terrain map.
The King of Huainan said: The emperor has no prince. Once the emperor dies, the ministers will definitely summon King Jiaojian or King Changshan. The princes will compete for it. How can I not be prepared!
Moreover, I am the grandson of Emperor Gao, and I practice benevolence and righteousness. I can tolerate His Majesty's kindness to me. After the Emperor's death, how can I go north and become a minister?
King Huainan had a concubine named Buhai, who was the oldest. King Huainan did not like him, the queen did not regard him as her son, and the prince did not regard him as his brother. Buhai's son, named Jian, was talented and ambitious, and he often complained that the prince did not visit his father.
At that time, all the princes were allowed to ennoble their own children as marquises. King Huainan had two sons, one of whom was established as the prince, but Liu Jian's father was not allowed to be established as a marquis.
So Liu Jian secretly made some friends and wanted to murder the prince and let his father be the prince instead.
When the prince found out, he arrested and whipped Liu Jian many times.
Liu Jian knew about the prince's plot to kill Lieutenant Mo, so he sent his friend Shouchun to write a solemn letter to the emperor, saying: Good medicine is bitter and good for the disease, and loyal advice is hard on the ears and good for action.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
今淮南王孙建材能高，淮南王后荼、荼子迁常疾害建。
建父不害无罪，擅数系，欲杀之。
今建在，可征问，具知淮南王阴事。
书既闻，上以其事下廷尉、河南治。
是岁元朔六年也。
故辟阳侯孙审卿善丞相公孙弘，怨淮南厉王杀其大父，阴求淮南事而扌冓之于弘。
弘乃疑淮南有畔逆计，深探其狱。
河南治建，辞引太子及党与。
初，王数以举兵谋问伍被，被常谏之，以吴、楚七国为效。
王引陈胜、吴广，被复言形势不同，必败亡。
及建见治，王恐国阴事泄，欲发，复问被，被为言发兵权变。语在《被传》。
translation: 
Nowadays, Liu Jian, the grandson of King Huainan, is very talented, so Liu Qian, the son of King Huainan and Queen Tu and Tu, often frame him.
Liu Jian's father was imprisoned many times despite being innocent. They wanted to kill him.
Now that Liu Jianren is here, His Majesty can interrogate him personally, and he will know the plot of King Huainan.
After receiving the memorial, the emperor handed over the matter to Tingwei and Henan Order.
This happened in the sixth year of Yuanshuo.
Shen Qing, the grandson of the late Piyang Marquis, was close to the Prime Minister Gongsun Hong. He hated Huainan King Li for killing his grandfather, so he secretly requested that the Huainan King's case be handed over to Gongsun Hong.
Gongsun Hong suspected that the King of Huainan had a conspiracy, so he pursued the case in depth.
After the Henan Order interrogated Liu Jian, Liu Jian confessed to the prince and his accomplices.
At first, the King of Huainan discussed raising troops with Wu Bei. Wu Bei often advised him to take the chaos of Wu and Chu as a warning.
The king of Huainan cited the cases of Chen Sheng and Wu Guang who successfully raised troops to refute. Wu was replied that the situation was different, and that raising troops now would inevitably fail.
When Liu Jian was questioned, King Huainan was afraid that the conspiracy would be exposed, so he thought of going to war and asked Wu Qui for his opinion. Wu Bei was said to be able to send troops, but it depended on the situation. This was recorded in "The Biography of Wu Bei".


Chunk 15: 
original: 
于是王锐欲发，乃令官奴入宫中，作皇帝玺，丞相、御史大夫、将军、吏中二千石、都官令、丞印，及旁近郡太守、都尉印，汉使节法冠。
欲如伍被计，使人为得罪而西，事大将军、丞相；一日发兵，即刺大将军卫青，而说丞相弘下之，如发蒙耳。
欲发国中兵，恐相、二千石不听，王乃与伍被谋，为失火宫中，相、二千石救火，因杀之。
又欲令人衣求盗衣，持羽檄从南方来，呼言曰 南越兵入 ，欲因以发兵。
乃使人之庐江、会稽为求盗，未决。
廷尉以建辞连太子迁闻，上遣廷尉监与淮南中尉逮捕太子。
至，淮南王闻，与太子谋召相、二千石，欲杀而发兵。
召相，相至；内史以出为解。
中尉曰： 臣受诏使，不得见王。
王念独杀相而内史、中尉不来，无益也，即罢相。
translation: 
So the King of Huainan was ready to go, and ordered his official slaves to go to the palace to carve the emperor's jade seal, as well as the prime minister, imperial censors, generals, officials, two thousand stones, the official order of the capital, the seal of the chief minister, and the seal of the prefect of the neighboring county, and the seal of the captain, and also made official hats for the envoys of the Han Dynasty.
According to Wu Bei's plan, King Huainan planned to send someone to pretend to be afraid of crime and flee to Chang'an to serve the general and the prime minister. Once the army was launched, he would first assassinate the general Wei Qing and then persuade the prime minister Gongsun Hong, which would be easy.
The King of Huainan plans to mobilize the soldiers in the country. Is he afraid of the Prime Minister? Er Qian Shi refused to listen, so he conspired with Wu Bei to set fire to the palace and pretend there was a fire. When the prime minister and Er Qian Shi went to put out the fire, they killed them.
The King of Huainan also planned to send people to pretend to be arresters, rush from the south with urgent military documents, shout that South Vietnam has sent troops to attack, and then take advantage of the situation to raise troops.
So he sent people to Lujiang and Kuaiji to serve as arresters, but the final decision was not made.
Wei Ting reported the matter of Liu Jiangong and Prince Liu Qian, and the emperor sent Wei Jian Ting and Lieutenant Huainan to arrest the prince.
When they arrived in Huainan, the king of Huainan heard about it and conspired with the prince. He summoned the prime minister and two thousand stones to kill them and then raised an army.
The prime minister was summoned. The prime minister came, but the internal history declined the future.
The lieutenant said: I have a mission from the emperor. I cannot come to see the king.
The king of Huainan thought that it would be meaningless to just kill the prime minister and leave the history and lieutenant in the future, so he ordered the prime minister to go back.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
计犹与未决。太子念所坐者谋杀汉中尉，所与谋杀者已死，以为口绝，及谓王曰： 群臣可用者皆前系，今无足与举事者。
王以非时发，恐无功，臣愿会逮。
王亦愈欲休，即许太子。
太子自刑，不殊。
伍被自诣吏，具告与淮南王谋反。
吏因捕太子、王后，围王宫，尽捕王宾客在国中者，索得反具以闻。
上下公卿治，所连引与淮南王谋反列侯、二千石、豪桀数千人，皆以罪轻重受诛。
衡山王赐，淮南王弟，当坐收。
有司请逮捕衡山王，上曰： 诸侯各以其国为本，不当相坐。
与诸侯王列侯议。
赵王彭祖、列侯让等四十三人皆曰： 淮南王安大逆无道，谋反明白，当伏诛。
translation: 
When he was hesitating, the prince thought that the crime they committed was just the murder of a Han Dynasty lieutenant, and all those involved in the murder were dead and there were no witnesses, so he said to the King of Huainan: All the useful officials among the officials have been arrested, and now there is no one who can help in the rebellion.
If your Majesty raises troops at an inappropriate time, I'm afraid it won't be successful. It's better to let them arrest me.
The King of Huainan became less and less willing to take action, so he agreed to the prince's request.
The prince committed suicide but did not die.
Wu Ban went to surrender and confessed to the rebellion against the King of Huainan.
The officials of the Han Dynasty arrested the prince and the queen, surrounded the palace, took away all the guests of King Huainan, copied the utensils used in the rebellion, and reported them to the emperor.
The emperor sent his ministers to investigate and investigate. Thousands of princes, erganshi, and heroes were implicated in King Huainan's rebellion. They were all punished according to the severity of their crimes.
Hengshan Wang Xingmeng, the younger brother of Huainan Wang Xingxuan, should be arrested.
Someone asked for the arrest of the King of Hengshan, and the emperor said: "The princes each have their own enfeoffments and govern the country, and they should not be implicated."
Please discuss and discuss with the princes, kings and princes.
Forty-three people including Diesi Qiandan and Liehou Rang all said: Liu An, the king of Jinnan, is treasonous and treasonous. The evidence of rebellion is conclusive and he should be questioned and executed.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
胶西王端议曰： 安废法度，行邪辟，有诈伪心，以乱天下，营惑百姓，背畔宗庙，妄作妖言。《春秋》曰 臣毋将，将而诛 。
安罪重于将，谋反形已定。
臣端所见其书印图及它逆亡道事验明白，当伏法。
论国吏二百石以上及比者，宗室近幸臣不在法中者，不能相教，皆当免，削爵为士伍，毋得官为吏。
其非吏，它赎死金二斤八两，以章安之罪，使天下明知臣子之道，毋敢复有邪僻背畔之意。
丞相弘、廷尉汤等以闻，上使宗正以符节治王。
未至，安自刑杀。
后、太子诸所与谋皆收夷。
国除为九江郡。
衡山王赐后乘舒生子三人，长男爽为太子，次女无采，少男孝。
姬徐来生子男女四人，美人厥姬生子二人。
淮南、衡山相责望礼节，间不相能。
translation: 
Liu Duan, King of Jiaoxi, said: Liu An is lawless, does not follow the right path, has ulterior motives, and is ready to disrupt the world, confuse the people, betray his ancestors, and confuse the public with his evil words. "Spring and Autumn" says: If the minister does not use the general, he will be executed.
Liu An's crime did not just sprout, his rebellion was already a fact.
In my opinion, after identifying the tools of his rebellion, he can be punished.
Officials of the Huainan Kingdom with a salary of more than 200 shi and those with a salary equivalent to this, as well as favorites of the royal family, who have not rebelled but failed to assist the King of Huainan should be dismissed from their posts, and their titles can be reduced to civilians, and they will not be allowed to serve as officials again.
The other people who were not officials each paid two catties and eighty taels of gold to atone for their death penalty, so that Liu An's crimes could be publicized, so that everyone in the world would understand the way of being a minister and would not dare to have bad intentions and rebel against the court.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Tingweitang and others reported their opinions to the kings, and the emperor sent Zongzheng to punish Liu An.
Before Zong Zheng arrived, Liu An committed suicide.
The queen, prince and other people involved in the rebellion were all executed.
Huainan Kingdom was abolished and changed to Jiujiang County.
Queen Chengshu of Hengshan King Liu Ci gave birth to three children: the eldest son Liu Shuang was the prince, the second daughter Liu Wucai, and the youngest son Liu Xiao.
The beloved concubine Xu Lai gave birth to four children, and the beautiful concubine Jue Ji gave birth to two children.
The king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan blamed each other and complained, and there were constant conflicts.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
衡山王闻淮南王作为畔逆具，亦心结宾客以应之，恐为所并。元光六年入朝，谒者卫庆有方术，欲上书事天子，王怒，故劾庆死罪，强榜服之。
内史以为非是，却其狱。
王使人上书告内史，内史治，言王不直。又数侵夺人田，坏人冢以为田。
有司请逮治衡山王，上不许，为置吏二百石以上。
衡山王以此恚，与奚慈、张广昌谋，求能为兵法候星气者，日夜纵臾王谋反事。
后乘舒死，立徐来为后，厥姬俱幸。
两人相妒。厥姬乃恶徐来于太子，曰： 徐来使婢蛊杀太子母。
太子心怨徐来。
徐来兄至衡山，太子与饮，以刃刑伤之。
后以此怨太子，数恶之于王。
女弟无采嫁，弃归，与客奸。
太子数以数让之，无采怒，不与太子通。
translation: 
The King of Hengshan heard that the King of Huainan was preparing to use the utensils for rebellion, and secretly recruited talents to deal with them to prevent them from being annexed by him. In the sixth year of Yuanguang, King Hengshan went to the capital to pay homage. The visitor, Wei Qing, knew magic and wanted to write a letter to serve the emperor. The King of Hengshan became angry and impeached Wei Qing for committing a capital crime. He tortured Wei Qing to extract a confession and made him admit to the capital crime.
The internal historian believed that the case was untrue and withdrew.
King Hengshan sent a letter to the internal historian. When the internal historian was interrogated, he pointed out that King Hengshan was not upright and had repeatedly invaded other people's fields and used other people's cemeteries as fields.
Some officials requested that King Hengshan be arrested and punished, but the emperor did not allow it. He only deprived King Hengshan of the right to appoint officials with a salary of more than 200 shi.
The King of Hengshan was very dissatisfied and conspired with Xi Ci and Zhang Guangchang to find people who could use military astrology to plot rebellion day and night.
After Queen Chengshu died, King Hengshan made Xu Lai his queen, and Jue Ji was also favored.
Xu Lai and Jue Ji were jealous of each other. Jue Ji slandered Xu Lai in front of the prince: Xu Lai sent his slaves to kill the prince's mother using witchcraft.
The prince resented Xu Lai.
Xu Lai's brother came to Hengshan. The prince drank with him and stabbed him with a knife.
The queen hated the prince because of this and slandered the prince in front of King Hengshan.
After the prince's sister Wucai got married, her husband divorced her and she committed adultery with a guest.
The prince scolded her many times, and she was unhappy and stopped interacting with the prince.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
后闻之，即善遇无采及孝。
孝少失母，附后，后以计爱之，与共毁太子，王以故数系笞太子。
元朔四年中，人有贼伤后假母者，王疑太子使人伤之，笞太子。
后王病，太子时称病不侍。
孝、无采恶太子： 实不病，自言，有喜色。 王于是大怒，欲废太子而立弟孝。
后知王决废太子，又欲并废孝。
后有侍者善舞，王幸之，后欲令与孝乱以污之，欲并废二子而以己子广代之。
太子知之，念后数恶己无已时，欲与乱以止其口。
后饮太子，太子前为寿，因据后股求与卧。
后怒，以告王。
王乃召，欲缚笞之。
太子知王常欲废己而立孝，乃谓王曰： 孝与王御者奸，无采与奴奸，王强食，请上书。
translation: 
After the queen heard about it, she won over Wucai and Liu Xiao.
Liu Xiao lost his mother when he was young and grew up with the queen. The queen doted on him because of her plans. Liu Xiao and the queen went to King Hengshan to slander the prince, and King Hengshan whipped the prince many times.
During the fourth year of Yuanshuo, someone injured the queen's stepmother. King Hengshan suspected that the prince had sent someone to do it, so he whipped him.
Later, when the King of Hengshan fell ill, the prince said that he was also ill and refused to attend to him.
Liu Xiao and Liu Wucai slandered the prince together and said: He is actually not sick. He said this himself, and he was very happy when he said it. King Hengshan was furious and wanted to depose the crown prince and install his younger brother Liu Xiao.
After the queen learned that King Hengshan was determined to depose the crown prince, she wanted him to depose Liu Xiao together.
The queen had a waiter who was good at dancing, and the King of Hengshan favored her. The queen wanted to send the waiter to have an affair with Liu Xiao, and after making Liu Xiao responsible for the crime, she also deposed the two brothers so that her son Liu Guang could replace them.
After the prince found out, he hated the queen for harming him many times and there was no end to it, so he also wanted to silence her with the crime of fornication.
The queen invited the prince to drink. When the prince came to celebrate her birthday, he hugged her thigh and asked to sleep with her.
The queen was furious and told the king of Hengshan.
The King of Hengshan summoned the prince and wanted to tie him up and whip him.
The prince knew that the king often wanted to depose him and make Liu Xiao the prince, so he told the king of Hengshan: Liu Xiao has committed adultery with the king's attendants, and Wucai has committed adultery with his slaves. Your king, please pay attention to your diet. I am going to sue the emperor.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
即背王去。王使人止之，莫能禁，王乃自追捕太子。
太子妄恶言，王械系宫中。
孝日益以亲幸。
王奇孝材能，乃佩之王印，号曰将军，令居外家，多给金钱；招致宾客。
宾客来者，微知淮南、衡山有逆计，皆将养劝之。
王乃使孝客江都人枚赫、陈喜作輣车锻矢，刻天子玺，将、相、军吏印。
王日夜求壮士如周丘等，数称引吴、楚反时计画约束。
衡山王非敢效淮南王求即天子位，畏淮南起并其国，以为淮南已西，发兵定江淮间而有之，望如是。
元朔五年秋，当朝，六年，过淮南。
淮南王乃昆弟语，除前隙，约束反具。
衡山王即上书谢病，上赐不朝。
乃使人上书请废太子爽，立孝为太子。
爽闻，即使所善白嬴之长安上书，言衡山王与子谋逆，言孝作兵车锻矢，与王御者奸。
至长安未及上书，即吏捕赢，以淮南事系。
王闻之，恐其言国阴事，即上书告太子，以为不道。
translation: 
Then he turned around and left. King Hengshan sent people to stop him, but they couldn't stop him, so he chased after him and caught him.
The prince talked nonsense, so King Hengshan locked him up in the palace.
Liu Xiao became more and more popular with King Hengshan.
The King of Hengshan valued his talent, so he put the royal seal on him, made him a general, let him live in his grandfather's house, and gave him a lot of money to recruit talents.
Some of the guests who came to defected knew a little bit about the rebellion of King Huainan and King Hengshan, so they took advantage of the opportunity to persuade them.
The King of Hengshan then sent Liu Xiao's guests Mei He and Chen happy from Jiangdu to battle chariots with bows and arrows, and to engrave the emperor's jade seal and the seals of the generals, prime ministers, and military officers.
King Ye of Hengshan recruited strong men like Zhou Qiu and others, and talked many times about the strategies used by Wu and Chu when they rebelled.
The King of Hengshan did not dare to ascend the throne like the King of Huainan, but he was afraid that the King of Huainan would raise an army and annex his kingdom. He thought that after the King of Huainan sent troops to march westward, he might send troops to occupy the Jianghuai area, and he only hoped for this.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuanshuo, King Hengshan should go to Beijing to pay homage. In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, King Hengshan passed by Huainan.
The King of Huainan recalled the deep love between brothers, and the two sides abandoned their differences and agreed to rebel together.
The King of Hengshan immediately wrote a letter saying that he was ill, and the emperor agreed that he would not come to worship.
The King of Hengshan also sent a letter asking for the deposing of Prince Liu Shuang and the appointment of Liu Xiao as Tai Guang.
After Liu Shuang heard about it, he immediately sent his friend Bai Ying to Chang'an to write a letter, saying that King Hengshan and his son were planning to rebel, that Liu Xiao had made military chariots, bows and arrows, and that Liu Xiao had committed adultery with King Hengshan's attendant.
Bai Ying was arrested before he could file a petition in Chang'an because he was suspected of the Huainan King case.
After King Heng heard about it, he was afraid that he would reveal his secret, so he wrote to the prince and accused him of treason.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
事下沛郡治。
元狩元年冬，有司求捕与淮南王谋反者，得陈喜于孝家。
吏劾孝首匿喜。
孝以为陈喜雅数与王计反，恐其发之，闻律先自告除其罪，又疑太子使白嬴上书发其事，即先自告所与谋反者枚赫、陈喜等。
廷尉治，事验，请逮捕衡山王治。
上曰： 勿捕。
遣中尉安、大行息即问王，王具以情实对。
吏皆围王宫守之。
中尉、大行还，以闻。
公卿请遣宗正、大行与沛郡杂治王。
王闻，即自杀。
孝先自告反，告除其罪。
孝坐与王御婢奸，乃后徐来坐蛊前后乘舒，及太子爽坐告王父不孝，皆弃市。
诸坐与王谋反者皆诛。
国除为郡。
济北贞王勃者，景帝四年徙。
徙二年，因前王衡山，凡十四年薨。
translation: 
The case was handed over to Pei County for trial.
In the winter of the first year of Yuanshou, Yousi requested the arrest of people related to the rebellion of King Huainan, and Chen happy was captured at Liu Xiao's house.
Officials impeached Liu Xiao for harboring Chen happy.
Liu Xiao believed that Chen happy had discussed the rebellion with the King of Hengshan many times in the past and was afraid that he would expose him. He heard that the law stipulated that the person who surrendered first could be exempted from punishment. He also suspected that the prince sent Bai Ying to write a letter to expose his affairs, so he surrendered first and confessed Mei He, Chen Xi and others who participated in the rebellion.
After interrogation, Tingwei found that the evidence was conclusive, so he demanded that King Hengshan be arrested and punished.
The emperor Bu said: Don’t catch me.
Lieutenants An and Da Xingxi were sent to interrogate King Hengshan, and King Hengshan confessed truthfully.
The officials surrounded the palace and stood guard there.
Lieutenant and Daxing returned to Beijing to report to Emperor Ming.
The minister requested that Zongzheng and Daxing be sent together with the governor of Pei County to investigate the King of Hengshan.
When the King of Hengshan heard about it, he committed suicide.
Liu Xiao was exempted from the crime of rebellion because he surrendered for rebellion.
Liu Xiao committed adultery with the maid of the King of Hengshan, Queen Xu Lai killed the former Queen Chengshu, and Prince Liu Shuang was beheaded in public for accusing his father of being unfilial.
Others who conspired with King Hengshan were executed.
The kingdom was deposed into counties.
Liu Bo, the Zhenwang of Jibei, moved in the fourth year of Emperor Jingdi's reign.
Two years after the migration, plus his previous time as King of Hengshan, he died after reigning for fourteen years.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
子式王胡嗣，五十四年薨。
子宽嗣。
十二年，宽坐与父式王后光、姬孝儿奸，悖人伦，又祠祭祝诅上，有司请诛。
上遣大鸿胪利召王，王以刃自刭死。
国除为北安县，属泰山郡。
赞曰：《诗》云 戎狄是膺，荆舒是惩 ，信哉是言也！
淮南、衡山亲为骨肉，疆土千里，列在诸侯，不务遵蕃臣职，以丞辅天子，而剸怀邪辟之计，谋为畔逆，仍父子再亡国，各不终其身。
此非独王也，亦其俗薄，臣下渐靡使然。
夫荆楚剽轻，好作乱，乃自古记之矣。
translation: 
His son Liu Hu, king of Shi, succeeded to the throne and died fifty-four years later.
Liu Hu's son Liu Kuan succeeded to the throne.
When Liu Kuan reigned for 12 years. Because he committed adultery with his father's wife, Queen Guang, and his concubine Xiaoer, which was contrary to human ethics, and he cursed the emperor during the sacrifice, some officials demanded that he be put to death.
The emperor sent Dahong Li to summon Liu Kuan to the capital, but Liu Kuan killed himself with a knife.
The kingdom was abolished as Bei'an County and belonged to Taishan County.
Zan said: "Poetry" says: Ao Da is cheating, Jing Shu is punishment. This statement is absolutely true!
King Jinzhi and King Hengshan were both flesh and blood of the emperor, with a vast territory of thousands of miles, and were classified as vassals. However, they did not abide by the ways of vassals and assist the emperor. Instead, they had ulterior motives and deliberately rebelled. Both father and son perished, and their tribe did not have a good death.
This is not only because of their poor quality as kings, but also because of the vulgar ethos of their kingdom and their ministers drifting with the crowd, which leads to this kind of drama.
People in Jingchu have always liked to offend their superiors and cause trouble. This has been recorded since ancient times.


