Chunk 0: 
original: 
樊哙，沛人也，以屠狗为事。
后与高祖俱隐于芒砀山泽间。
陈胜初起，萧何、曹参使哙求迎高祖，立为沛公。
哙以舍人从攻胡陵、方与，还守丰，击泗水临丰下，破之。
复东定沛，破泗水守薛西。
与司马尸二战砀东，却敌，斩首十五级，赐爵国大夫。
常从，沛公击章邯军濮阳，攻城先登，斩首二十三级，赐爵列大夫。
从攻城阳，先登。下户牖，破李由军，斩首十六级，赐上闻爵。
后攻圉都尉、东郡守尉于成武，却敌，斩首十四级，捕虏十六人，赐爵五大夫。
从攻秦军，出亳南。
河间守军于杠里，破之。
击破赵贲军开封北，以却敌先登，斩候一人，首六十八级，捕虏二十六人，赐爵卿。
从攻破扬熊于曲遇。
攻宛陵，先登，斩首八级，捕虏四十四人，赐爵封号贤成君。
从攻长社、轘辕，绝河津，东攻秦军尸乡，南攻秦军于犨。
破南阳守齮于阳城。东攻宛城，先登。
西至郦，以却敌，斩首十四级，捕虏四十人，赐重封。
攻武关，至霸上，斩都尉一人，首十级，捕虏百四十六人，降卒二千九百人。
项羽在戏下，欲攻沛公。
沛公从百余骑因项伯面见项羽，谢无有闭关事。
项羽既飨军士，中酒，亚父谋欲杀沛公，令项庄拔剑舞坐中，欲击沛公，项伯常屏蔽之。
时，独沛公与张良得入坐，樊哙居营外，闻事急，乃持盾入。
初入营，营卫止哙，哙直撞入，立帐下。
项羽目之，问为谁。
张良曰： 沛公参乘樊哙也。
translation: 
Fan Kuai, a native of Peixian County, kills dogs as a profession.
Later, he hid with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty in the Mangshan and Cishan areas because he was avoiding official duties.
During Chen Sheng's uprising, Xiao He and Cao Shen asked Fan Kuai to find and bring back Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and became Peigong.
Fan Kuai, as a Sheren, attacked Huling and Fangyu and returned to garrison Fengyi. He attacked the army of the Sishui County Supervisor in Fengyi and defeated them.
Then he went east to pacify Peixian County and defeated the army of Sishui County Governor to the west of Xuexian County.
Shumian fought against Sima Chao in Ci County, defeated the enemy, beheaded fifteen of them, and was awarded the title of doctor of another country by Pei Gong.
Fan Kuai often followed Pei Gong. Pei Gong attacked Zhang Han's army in Puyang. When he attacked the city, Fan Kuai was the first to climb up and beheaded twenty-three enemies. Pei Gong gave him the title of Lieutenant.
Then he attacked Chengyang, and was the first to ascend the city, occupy Hufu, defeat Li You's army, beheaded sixteen enemies, and was awarded the title of Shangwen by Pei Gong.
Later, he followed Pei Gong in Chengwu to attack the prefect of Shu County and the captain of Yu County. He drove back the enemy, beheaded 14 of them and captured 16 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of fifth doctor.
He followed Pei Gong to attack the Qin army and sent troops to the south of Boyi.
The troops of the governor of Hejian were stationed in Gangli, and Fan Kuai defeated them.
After defeating Dun Bi's army in the north of Kaifeng, Fan Kuai was the first to ascend the city because he repulsed the enemy. He beheaded one of the military commanders, beheaded the enemy sixty-eighth, and captured twenty-six people. Pei Gong gave him the title of minister.
Then he followed Pei Gong and defeated Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
When he attacked Wanling, Fan Yan first ascended the city, beheaded eight enemies and captured 44 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of Xianchengjun.
Follow Peigong to attack Changshe and Nianyuan, blockade the Yellow River ferry, go east to Xixiang to attack the Qin army, and then go south to Nianyi to attack the Qin army.
Defeated Shouling of Nanyang County in Yangcheng. Heading east to attack Wancheng, Fan Yan was the first to ascend the city.
Going west to Li County, Fan Kuai repelled the enemy army, beheaded fourteen enemies and captured forty people. Pei Gong increased his reward to him.
Attacked Wuguan, came to Bashang, beheaded one captain, beheaded ten enemies, captured 146 people, and surrendered 2,900 soldiers.
Xiang Yu garrisoned under the stage and prepared to attack Peigong.
Pei Gong led more than a hundred cavalry to meet Xiang Yu through Xiang Bo, apologized to Xiang Yu, and explained that there was no blockade of the pass.
Xiang Yu entertained Pei Gong's soldiers with wine and meat. When the wine was flowing freely, Yafu wanted to kill Pei Gong. He asked Xiang Zhuang to dance his sword in front of the banquet and took the opportunity to kill Pei Gong. Xiang Bo often protected Pei Gong.
At this time, only Pei Gong and Zhang Liang were able to enter the camp and sit down. Fan Kuai heard that the matter was urgent outside the camp gate, so he came to the military gate with his sword and shield.
Just as he was about to enter the camp gate, the guard guarding the gate blocked Fan Kuai. Fan Kuai went straight in and stood under the tent.
Xiang Yu looked at him and asked who he was.
Zhang Liang said: "It's Fan Kuai who is accompanying Duke Pei."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
项羽曰： 壮士！
赐之卮酒彘肩。
哙既饮酒，拔剑切肉食之。
项羽曰： 能复饮乎？
哙曰： 臣死且不辞，岂特卮酒乎！
且沛公先人定咸阳，暴师霸上，以待大王。
大王今日至，听小人之言，与沛公有隙，臣恐天下解心疑大王也！
项羽默然。
沛公如厕，麾哙去。
既出，沛公留车骑，独骑马，哙等四人步从，从山下走归霸上军，而使张良谢项羽。
羽亦因遂已，无诛沛公之心。
是日微樊哙奔入营谯让项羽，沛公几殆。
后数日，项羽入屠咸阳，立沛公为汉王。
汉王赐哙爵为列侯，号临武侯。
迁为郎中，从入汉中。
还定三秦，别击西丞白水北，雍轻车骑雍南，破之。
从攻雍、斄城，先登。
击章平军好畤，攻城，先登陷阵，斩县令丞各一人，首十一级，虏二十人，迁为郎中骑将。
从击秦车骑壤东，却敌，迁为将军。
攻赵贲，下郿、槐里、柳中、咸阳；灌废丘，最。
至栎阳，赐食邑杜之樊乡。
从攻项籍，屠煮枣，击破王武、程处军于外黄。
攻邹、鲁、瑕丘、薛。
项羽败汉王于彭城，尽复取鲁、梁地。
哙还至荥阳，益食平阴二千户，以将军守广武一岁。项羽引东，从高祖击项籍，下阳夏，虏楚周将军卒四千人。
围项籍陈，大破之。屠胡陵。
项籍死，汉王即皇帝位，以哙有功，益食邑八百户。
其秋，燕王臧荼反，哙从攻虏荼，定燕地。
楚王韩信反，哙从至陈，取信，定楚。
更赐爵列侯，与剖符，世世勿绝，食舞阳，号为舞阳侯，除前所食。
translation: 
Xiang Yu said: Strong man!
And gave him a cup of wine and a pig's leg.
After Fan Kuai drank the wine, he drew his sword and cut the meat to eat.
Xiang Yu said: Can I drink again?
Fan Kuai said: Even if I refuse to refuse even if I die, am I still afraid of drinking a glass of wine?
Besides, Pei Gong first entered to pacify Xianyang and camped on the top to wait for the king.
As soon as the king arrived today, he listened to the villain's words and became estranged from Pei Gong. I am worried that the world will be divided and people will doubt your Majesty.
Xiang Yu remained silent.
Pei Gong went to the toilet and called Fan Kuai out.
After coming out, Pei Gong left behind his carriage and only rode one horse. Fan Kuai and four others followed on foot and ran back to the Bashang military camp from the foot of the mountain, leaving Zhang Liang to thank Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu left it at that and no longer had the idea of ​​killing Pei Gong.
If Fan Kuai hadn't broken into the camp to condemn Xiang Yu that day, Pei Gong's career would have almost failed.
A few days later, Xiang Yu entered Xianyang, burned and killed people wantonly, and made Peigong King of Han.
The King of Han granted Fan Kuai the title of Marquis of Linwu.
Later Fan Kuai was promoted to doctor and followed the King of Han into Hanzhong.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, Fan Kuai led another army to attack the army of the Xixian County Magistrate north of Baishui, and to attack King Yong's light cavalry troops south of Yong County, defeating the enemy.
Follow the King of Han to attack Yongxian and Tengcheng, and climb the city first.
When Haozhi attacked Zhang Ping's army and attacked the city, Fan Kuai first ascended the city and beheaded one county magistrate and one county magistrate, beheaded eleven enemies and captured twenty others. He was promoted to the rank of Cavalry General.
Following the King of Han, he attacked the Qin army's chariots and cavalry troops in Shumian, Rangxiang. He defeated the enemy and was promoted to general.
Attacking Zhao Bi, occupying Jun, Huaili, Liuzhong, and Xianyang; diverting water to irrigate waste hills, Fan Kuai made the greatest contribution.
After arriving in Luanyang, the King of Han granted Fan Township in Du County as a food town.
Following the king of Han, he attacked Xiang Yu, slaughtered and cooked Zaoyi, and defeated Wang Wu and Cheng Chu's troops in Waihuang County.
Then attack Zouxian, Luxian, Xiaqiu and Xuexian.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng and once again took over all the Lu and Liang areas.
When Fan Kuai returned to Rongyang, the King of Han gave him another 2,000 households in Pingyin as a settlement, and asked him to garrison Guangwu Mountain as a general for one year.
Surrounded Xiang Yu in Chen County, defeated him and bloodbathed Hu Ling.
After Xiang Yu's death, the King of Han became the emperor. Because of Fan Kuai's meritorious service in the battle, he was granted a title of 800 households in the city.
In the autumn of this year, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled. Fan Kuai followed Han Gaozu to attack him, captured Zang Tu, and pacified Yan.
When Chu King Han Xin rebelled, Fan Kuai followed Mo Gaozu to Chen County, arrested Han Xin, and pacified Chu.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty granted Fan Kuai the title of Marquis and a seal of seal. According to legend, Wuyang was given the title of Marquis of Wuyang, exempting him from the previous title.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
以将军从攻反者韩王信于代。
自霍人以往至云中，与绛侯等共定之，益食千五百户。
因击陈豨与曼丘臣军，战襄国，破柏人，先登，降定清河、常山凡二十七县，残东垣，迁为左丞相。
破得綦母卯、尹潘军于无终、广昌。破豨别将胡人王黄军代南，因击韩信军参合。
军所将卒斩韩信，击豨胡骑横谷，斩将军赵既，虏代丞相冯梁、守孙奋、大将王黄、将军一人、太仆解福等十人。
与诸将共定代乡邑七十三。
后燕王卢绾反，哙以相国击绾，破其丞相抵蓟南，定燕县十八、乡邑五十一。
益食千三百户，定食舞阳五千四百户。
从，斩首百七十六级，虏二百八十七人。别，破军七，下城五，定郡六、县五十二，得丞相一人，将军十三人，二千石以下至三百石十二人。
哙以吕后弟吕须为妇，生子伉，故其比诸将最亲。
先黥布反时，高帝尝病，恶见人，卧禁中，诏户者无得入群臣。
群臣绛、灌等莫敢人。
十余日，哙乃排闼直入，大臣随之。
上独枕一宦者卧。
哙等见上，流涕曰： 始，陛下与臣等起丰沛，定天下，何其壮也！
今天下已定，又何惫也！
且陛下病甚，大臣震恐，不见臣等计事，顾独与一宦者绝乎？
且陛下独不见赵高之事乎？
高帝笑而起。
其后卢绾反，高帝使哙以相国击燕。
是时，高帝病甚，人有恶哙党于吕氏，即上一日宫车晏驾，则哙欲以兵尽诛戚氏、赵王如意之属。
高帝大怒，乃使陈平载绛侯代将。而即军中斩哙。
陈平畏吕后，执哙诣长安。
translation: 
Later, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu as a general to attack the rebel food in Daidi.
From Huo Renyi to Yunzhong County, he worked with Jianghou and others to pacify Dai land and increase the number of households by 1,500.
Because he attacked the armies of Chen Xi and Manqiuchen, fought in the state of Xiang, and captured Bairen County, Fan Kuai first ascended the city, surrendered and pacified Qinghe and Changshan counties, a total of 27 counties, destroyed Shuyuan County, and was promoted to prime minister of the left.
Defeated the armies of Qi Muyin and Yin Pan in Wuzhong County and Guangchang County. Defeated Chen Xipian general Wang Huang's army in the south of Daidi, and took advantage of the situation to attack Han Xin's army in Shenhe County.
Fan Kuai's men killed Han Xin, defeated the few Xiongnu cavalry in Henggu County, killed General Zhao Ji, and captured ten people including Prime Minister Feng Liang, County Governor Sun Fen, General Wang Huang, one general, and Tai servant Jie Fu.
Fan Kuai and his generals jointly pacified the seventy-two counties of Dai.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled, and Fan Kuai attacked Lu Wan as prime minister, defeated his prime minister, reached the south of Jixian, and pacified the eighteen counties and fifty-one townships of Yan.
Emperor Gaozu added 1,300 households to Fan Kuai, and designated 5,400 households in Wuyang as Fan Kuai's food territory.
Fan Kuai followed Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty to fight, beheading 176 enemies and capturing 287 people. He also led other troops to fight, defeated seven enemy armies, occupied five cities, pacified six commanderies and fifty-two counties, and captured one prime minister, thirteen generals, and twelve officials ranging from two thousand to three hundred stone.
Fan Kuai married Empress Lu's sister Lu Xu and gave birth to a son named Mr. and Mrs. Fan. Therefore, compared with other generals, he was closest to the emperor.
During the previous rebellion of Yingbu, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was very ill and did not want to see anyone. He lived in the inner palace and ordered the guards not to let the ministers in.
No one, including ministers Jianghou and Guan Ying, dared to enter.
After more than ten days, Fan Kuai opened the palace door and rushed in. The ministers followed him.
The emperor was lying alone with a eunuch on his pillow.
Fan Kuai and others saw the emperor weeping and said: Your Majesty led us to raise troops in Fengyi, Pei County to pacify the world. How majestic it was!
Now that the world is at peace, how tired it is!
Besides, Your Majesty is seriously ill and the ministers are shocked and frightened. Your Majesty will not summon us to discuss state affairs, but will you just say goodbye to a eunuch alone?
Besides, didn’t Your Majesty see what happened to Zhao Gao?
Gaozu stood up with a smile.
Later, Lu Wan rebelled, and Mo Gaozu sent Fan Kuai to attack Yan as prime minister.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu was very ill. Some people slandered Fan Kuai for colluding with the Lu family, saying that once the emperor died, Fan Kuai would use his troops to kill all Madam Qi, King Zhao Ruyi and others.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was very angry when he heard these words, so he sent Chen Ping to take Zhou Bo to lead the army instead of Fan Kuai, and beheaded Fan Kuai on the spot.
Chen Ping was afraid of Empress Lu, so he arrested Fan Kuai and came to Chang'an.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
至则高帝已崩，吕后释哙，得复爵邑。
孝惠六年，哙薨，谥曰武侯，子伉嗣。
而伉母吕须亦为临光侯，高后时用事颛权，大臣尽畏之。
高后崩，大臣诛吕须等，因诛伉，舞阳侯中绝数月。
孝文帝立，乃复封哙庶子市人为侯，复故邑。
薨，谥曰荒侯。
子佗广嗣。
六岁，其舍人上书言： 荒侯市人病不能为人，令其夫人与其弟乱而生佗广，佗广实非荒侯子。
下吏，免。
平帝元始二年，继绝世，封哙玄孙之子章为舞阳侯，邑千户。
郦商，高阳人也。
陈胜起，商聚少年得数千人。
沛公略地六月余，商以所将四千人属沛公于岐。从攻长社，先登，赐爵封信成君。
从攻缑氏，绝河津，破秦军雒阳东。
从下宛、穰，定十七县。
别将攻旬关，西定汉中。
沛公为汉王，赐商爵信成侯，以将军为陇西都尉。
别定北地郡，破章邯别将于乌氏、栒邑、泥阳，赐食邑武城六千户。
从击项籍军，与钟离眛战，受梁相国印，益食四千户。
从击项羽二岁，攻胡陵。
汉王即帝位，燕王臧荼反，商以将军从击荼，战龙脱，先登陷阵，破荼军易下，却敌，迁为右丞相，赐爵列侯，与剖符，世世勿绝，食邑涿郡五千户。
别定上谷，因攻代，受赵相国印。
与绛侯等定代郡、雁门，得代丞相程纵、守相郭同、将军以下至六百石十九人。
还，以将军将太上皇卫一岁。
十月，以右丞相击陈豨，残东垣。
又从击黥布，攻其前垣，陷两阵，得以破布军，更封为曲周侯，食邑五千一百户，除前所食。
凡别破军三，降定郡六，县七十三，得丞相、守相、大将各一人，小将二人，二千石以下至六百石十九人。
translation: 
When they arrived in Chang'an, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already passed away. Empress Lu released Fan Kuai and restored his title and estate to him.
In the sixth year of Xiaohui, Fan Kuai died, and Mi was named Marquis of Wu. His son Fan Kuai succeeded him as Marquis.
Fan's mother, Lu Xu, was also granted the title of Marquis of Linguang. During Queen Lu's period, she had monopolized power and the ministers were all afraid of her.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers killed Lu Xu and others, and also killed Fan and his wife. The title of Wuyang Marquis was suspended for several months.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, he granted Fan Kuai's concubine Fan Shi the title of Marquis of Wuyang and restored his original title and fiefdom.
After the death of Fan Shi, Mi was named Huanghou.
His son Fan Tuoguang inherited the title.
Six years later, the family members of Hou Wuyang wrote a letter saying: Huanghou Fan was sick and infertile, so his wife had an affair with his younger brother and gave birth to Fan Tuoguang. Fan Tuoguang was not actually the son of Huanghou.
The emperor ordered that he be handed over to the officials and dismissed from the title.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Ping inherited the severed title and granted Fan Zhang, the son of Fan Kuai's great-great-grandson, the title of Marquis of Wuyang, with a land of 1,000 households.
Li Shang was born in Gaoyang County.
He gathered thousands of young people during Chen Sheng's uprising.
More than six months after Pei Gong captured some areas, Li Shang led his troops in Qidi and surrendered 4,000 people to Pei Gong. He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe. He was the first to ascend the city. Pei Gong granted him a title and named him Xinchengjun.
He also followed Pei Gong to attack Fengshi County, blocked the Yellow River ferries, and defeated the Qin army in Luoyang.
He then followed up and captured Wan and Xing, and pacified seventeen counties.
He also cooperated with the main force to attack Shanguan Pass and pacified Hanzhong to the west.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, made Li Shangxin the king, granted him a title, and appointed him the captain of Longxi.
He also pacified Beidi County and defeated Zhang Han's deputy generals Wushi, Kuyi and Niyang. The king of Han gave him six thousand households in Wucheng as a food town.
He followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Ji's army and fought a fierce battle with Zhong Limei. After winning the battle, he was awarded the Prime Minister's Seal of Liang State and added four thousand households to the city.
He followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu for two years, and then went to attack Hu Ling.
After the King of Han proclaimed himself emperor, King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled. As a general of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang followed the emperor to attack Zang Tu. He fought at Longtuo and charged into battle. He defeated Zang Tu's army in Yixia and repulsed the enemy. He was promoted to prime minister of the right and was given the title of prince. The emperor gave him a talisman as a certificate that would last for generations, and he was granted food for 5,000 households in Zhuojun.
He also led his troops to attack Shanggu and took advantage of the victory to seize the land of Dai. The emperor granted Zhao Xiang the national seal.
He Jianghou and other generals pacified Dai County and Yanmen, and captured Dai's Prime Minister Cheng Zong, Acting Prime Minister Guo Tong, and 19 people ranging from generals to 600 shi.
He returned in triumph and commanded the Imperial Guard as a general for one year.
In October, as Prime Minister You, he attacked Chen Xi's rebels and destroyed the Shuyuan barrier.
He then followed to attack the Tingbu rebels, broke down the barriers in front of the rebels, captured two formations, and was able to annihilate the Tingbu army. So he was renamed the Marquis of Qu Zhou, and the food town was 5,100 households, and the previous food town was abolished.
To sum up his military achievements, Li Shang led his army to defeat three rebels, pacify six counties and seventy-three counties, and captured one prime minister, one acting prime minister, one general, two minor generals, and a total of 19 people with salaries ranging from less than 2,000 shi to 600 shi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
商事孝惠帝、吕后。
吕后崩，商疾不治事。
其子寄，字况，与吕禄善。
及高后崩，大臣欲诛诸吕，吕禄为将军，军于北军，太尉勃不得入北军，于是乃使人劫商，令其子寄绐吕禄。
吕禄信之，与出游，而太尉勃乃得入据北军，遂以诛诸吕。
商是岁薨，谥曰景侯。
子寄嗣。天下称郦况卖友。
孝景时，吴、楚、齐、赵反，上以寄为将军，围赵城，七月不能下，栾布自平齐来，乃灭赵。
孝景中二年，寄欲取平原君为夫人，景帝怒，下寄吏，免。
上乃封商它子坚为缪侯，奉商后。
传至玄孙终根，武帝时为太常，坐巫蛊诛，国除。
元始中，赐高祖时功臣自郦商以下子孙爵皆关内侯，食邑凡百余人。
夏侯婴，沛人也。
为沛厩司御，每送使客，还过泗上亭，与高祖语，未尝不移日也。
婴已而试补县吏，与高祖相爱。
高祖戏而伤婴，人有告高祖。
高祖时为亭长，重坐伤人，告故不伤婴，婴证之。
移狱复，婴坐高祖系岁余，掠笞数百，终脱高祖。
高祖之初与徒属欲攻沛也，婴时以县令史为高祖使。
上降沛一日，高祖为沛公，赐爵七大夫，以婴为太仆，常奉车。
从攻胡陵，婴与萧何降泗水监平，平以胡陵降，赐婴爵五大夫。
从击秦军砀东，攻济阳，下户牖，破李由军雍丘，以兵车趣攻战疾，破之，赐爵执帛。
translation: 
Li Shang assisted Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu.
After Empress Lu's death, Li Shang was seriously ill and unable to govern.
His son Li Ji, whose courtesy name was good, had a good relationship with Lu Lu.
After Empress Lu died, the ministers wanted to kill the Lu family. Lu Lu was a general at the time and commanded the Northern Army. Because of this, Taiwei Zhou Bo could not command the Northern Army, so he sent people to hold Li Shang hostage and ordered his son Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu.
Lu Lu trusted Li Ji and traveled with him. Taiwei Zhou Bo took the opportunity to enter the Northern Army and surrendered them, so he killed the Lu family.
Li Shang died in this year, and his nickname was Jinghou.
His son Li Ji inherited the title, and everyone in the world said that Li Kuang betrayed his friends.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Wu, Chu, Qi, and Tong rebelled. The emperor ordered Li Ji to be the general and besieged Tong City, but they still could not capture it for seven months. Lebu came from Pingqi and captured Tucheng, thus annihilating the State of Zhao.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Li Ji wanted to marry Lord Pingyuan as his wife. Emperor Jing was furious and had Li Ji arrested and stripped of his title.
The emperor named Li Jian, another son of Li Shang, the Marquis of Mu, a descendant of Li Shang.
The title was passed directly to Xuansun Su, who was appointed as Taichang during the military inspection. He was convicted and killed for being implicated in witchcraft, and his feudal status was abolished.
During the Second Beginning of the year, the great ministers who were granted the title of "Lian Zhi" were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and the descendants of Bai Lishi and below were all given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a total of more than 100 people living in the city.
Xia Houying was from Peixian County.
He was in charge of horse breeding and driving in Peixian County. Every time he passed by Sishang Pavilion after seeing off guests, he would talk to Gaozu, often for a long time.
Xia Houying later served as a county official on probation and became friendly with Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu injured Xia Houying while playing proverbs, so someone broke the law.
As the chief of the pavilion at the time, Gaozu wanted to be sentenced to a higher crime of wounding, but Gaozu told him that he had not harmed Xia Houying at all, and Xia Houying testified for Gaozu that this was not the case.
After a retrial, Xia Houying was found guilty of perjury and imprisoned for more than a year. He was whipped hundreds of times and finally acquitted Gaozu.
When Emperor Gaozu started his army, he and his subordinates wanted to attack Peixian County. Xia Houying, who was a minor official in the county government at that time, was ordered by Emperor Gaozu.
On the first day when Emperor Gaozu captured Peixian County, Emperor Gaozu became the Duke of Pei, and granted Xia Houying the title of seventh-level Duke and Duke, becoming a royal servant in charge of chariots and horses.
Following Emperor Gaozu in attacking Huling, Xiahouying and Xiao He surrendered to Ping, the supervisor of Sishui County. Ping surrendered Huling and surrendered, so Xiahouying was given the rank of ninth rank and the fifth rank.
He also attacked the Qin army in Yangdong, captured Jiyang, captured Hufu, and defeated Li You's army in Yongqiu. He attacked with military chariots and fought fiercely. He defeated the enemy and was awarded a title and silk.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
从击章邯军东阿、濮阳下，以兵车趣攻战疾，破之，赐爵执圭。
从击赵贲军开封，杨熊军曲遇。
婴从捕虏六十八人，降卒八百五十人，得印一匮。
又击秦军雒阳东，以兵车趣攻战疾，赐爵封，转为膝令。
因奉车从攻定南阳，战于蓝田、芷阳，至霸上。
沛公为汉王，赐婴爵列侯，号昭平侯，复为太仆，从入蜀汉。
还定三秦，从击项籍。
至鼓城，项羽大破汉军。
汉王不利，驰去。见孝惠、鲁元，载之。
汉王急，马罢，虏在后，常跋两儿弃之，婴常收载行，面雍树驰。
汉王怒，欲斩婴者十余，卒得脱，而致孝惠、鲁元于丰。
汉王既至荥阳，收散兵，复振，赐婴食邑沂阳。
击项籍下邑，追至陈，卒定楚。
至鲁，益食兹氏。
汉王即帝位，燕王臧荼反，婴从击荼。
明年，从至陈，取楚王信。
更食汝阴，剖符，世世勿绝。
从击代，至武泉、云中，益食千户。
因从击韩信军胡骑晋阳旁，大破之。
追北至平城，为胡所围，七日不得通。
高帝使使厚遗阏氏，冒顿乃开其围一角。
高帝出欲驰，婴固徐行，弩皆持满外乡，卒以得脱。
益食婴细阳千户。
从击胡骑句注北，大破之。
击胡骑平城南，三陷陈，功为多，赐所夺邑五百户。
从击陈豨、黥布军，陷陈却敌，益千户，定食汝阴六千九百户，降前所食。
婴自上初起沛，常为太仆从，竟高祖崩。
translation: 
Following Gaozu, he attacked Zhang Han's army at Shu'a and Puyang. He used his chariots to attack Zhang Han's army quickly and defeated the Qin army. He was awarded the title of Zhigui.
Following Gaozu, he attacked Trip Ben's army in Kaifeng, and attacked Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
Xia Houying captured 68 people and surrendered 850 soldiers, receiving a cabinet of official seals.
He also pursued the Qin army in the east of Luoyang, and still used military chariots to attack. He was granted a title and appointed magistrate of Teng County.
Therefore, he often followed Gao Zu in his chariot to fight, almost to Nanyang, and fought in Lantian and Zhiyang until he reached Ba Shang.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, and granted the title of Marquis of Xia to the title of Marquis of Zhaoping. He was also made a royal servant and followed the king of Han to Shuhan.
The king of Han also ordered the Three Qin Dynasties, and Xia Houying followed the emperor to attack Xiang Ji.
To Pengcheng. Xiang Yu defeated the Han army.
Seeing that the battle situation was not going well, the King of Han quickly retreated and met Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan. Xia Houying asked them to get in the chariot and go together.
The King of Han was impatient, his horse was tired, and his enemies were chasing behind him, so he kicked the two children out of the car several times and abandoned them. Xia Houying always carried them and hugged them tightly.
The King of Han was furious and tried to kill Xia Houying more than ten times, but finally escaped and sent Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan to Fengdi.
After the King of Han arrived in Rongyang, he gathered the scattered soldiers, revitalized the army, and gave Yiyang to Xiahou Ying as a food city.
Attacked Xiang Ji in Xiayi, pursued them all the way to Chen, and finally defeated Chu.
When he arrived in Lucheng, he added Zishi County as a food town.
After the King of Han proclaimed himself emperor, King Yan Zang Tu rebelled, and Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao to attack Zang Tu.
The next year, he followed to Chen County and captured Han Xin, King of Chu.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Ruyin, and the talisman was dissected as evidence and passed down from generation to generation.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the state of Dai, went to Wuquan and Yunzhong, and added a thousand households to the settlements.
He followed Emperor Gaozu to attack Han Xin's army Hu Qi near Jinyang and defeated the enemy.
They pursued northward to Pingcheng, where they were surrounded by the Huns and could not communicate with them for seven days.
Emperor Gao sent an envoy to give the Huns rich items, and Mao Duncai opened a corner of the encirclement to let them go.
Emperor Gao wanted to drive away, but Xia Houying insisted that the troops retreat slowly and carefully through the gap opened by the Xiongnu. The soldiers all pointed their weapons and arrows outward, and finally escaped.
Emperor Gao also gave Xiahou Ying an additional thousand households in Xiyang as food towns.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the Huns cavalry in the north of Juzhu and defeated the enemy.
Attacking the Huns cavalry south of Pingcheng, he charged three times and achieved great military success, so Emperor Gao gave him the 500 households he captured as food.
Following Emperor Gao, he attacked the armies of Chen Zhu and Yingbu, charged into battle, and bravely defeated the enemy. He added a thousand households to the food town, and added 6,900 households to Xiahou Ying's food town in Ruyin, canceling the previously sealed food town.
Xia Houying often followed Emperor Gao as a servant since Emperor Gao launched his army in Pei County, until Emperor Gao's death.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
以太仆事惠帝。
惠帝及高后德婴之脱孝惠、鲁元于下邑间也，乃赐婴北第第一，曰 近我 ，以尊异之。
惠帝崩，以太仆事高后。
高后崩，代王之来，婴以太仆与东牟侯入清宫，废少帝，以天子法驾迎代王代邸，与大臣共立文帝，复为太仆。
八岁薨，谥曰文侯。
传至曾孙颇，尚平阳公主，坐与父御婢奸。自杀，国除。
初，婴为藤令奉车，故号滕公。及曾孙颇尚主，主随外家姓，号孙公主，故滕公子孙更为孙氏。
灌婴，睢阳贩缯者也。
高祖为沛公，略地至雍丘，章邯杀项梁，而沛公还军于砀，婴以中涓从，击破东郡尉于成武及秦军于杠里，疾斗，赐爵七大夫。
又从攻秦军亳南、开封、曲遇，战疾力，赐爵执帛，号宣陵君。
从攻阳武以西至雒阳，破秦军尸北。
北绝河津，南破南阳守齮阳城东，遂定南阳郡。
西入武关，战于蓝田，疾力，至霸上，赐爵执圭，号昌文君。
沛公为汉王，拜婴为郎中，从入汉中，十月，拜为中谒者。
从还定三秦，下栎阳，降塞王。
还围章邯废丘，未拔。
从东出临晋关，击降殷王，定其地。
击项羽将龙且、魏相项佗军定陶南，疾战，破之。
赐婴爵列侯，号昌文侯。
复以中谒者从降下砀，以北至彭城。
项羽击破汉王，汉王遁而西，婴从还，军于雍丘。
translation: 
Later, he served Emperor Hui as a servant.
Emperor Hui and Empress Lu thanked Xia Houying for rescuing Xiaohui and Duke Yuan of Lu in Xiayi, so they gave him a first-class residence closest to the north palace of the palace. Empress Lu inscribed it "near me" to express a special kind of respect superior to other officials.
After Emperor Hui's death, he served as a servant to Empress Lu.
After Empress Lu's death, the acting king Liu Heng arrived. Xia Houying, as a royal servant, entered the palace together with Liu Xingju, the Marquis of Cambodia, to drive out the young emperor established by Empress Lu. According to the emperor's driving ceremony, he went to the palace of the acting king to welcome Liu Heng, the acting king, and he and the ministers jointly supported him as the emperor. He remained the imperial servant.
He died eight years later and was given the title Wenhou.
The title was passed to his great-grandson Xiahou Po, who married Princess Pingyang, the sister of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. Later, he committed adultery with his father's maid and committed suicide, and the feudal state was abolished.
At first, Xia Houying was named Teng Gong because he was the magistrate of Teng County. When his great-grandson Xiahou Po married Princess Pingyang, Princess Pingyang took the surname of Sun from the grandpa's family and was named Princess Sun. Therefore, the descendants of Teng Gong also changed their surname to Sun.
Guan Ying was born as a businessman selling silk products in Suiyang County.
Emperor Gaozu became Duke of Pei and led his soldiers to Yongqiu. After Zhang Han killed Xiang Liang, Pei Gong returned his army to Yang, and Guan Ying served as a follower in Zhongjuan. Defeated Qin's Shujun commandery at Chengwu and defeated the Qin army at Gangli. Because of his bravery in battle, he was awarded the title of Seventh Doctor.
He also followed Pei Gong to attack the Qin army in the south of Bo, Kaifeng and Quyu. The attack was rapid and fierce. Pei Gong gave him the title of Xuanling Jun.
He followed Pei Gong and attacked the west of Yangwu to Luoyang, and defeated the Qin army to the north of Xi.
He crossed the Yellow River ferry to the north, defeated the Nanyang governor and rode to the east of Yangcheng to the south, and pacified Nanyang County.
Then he entered Wuguan to the west and fought in Lantian. He was swift and tenacious in the battle. When he reached Bashang, Duke Pei gave him the title of Zhigui and the title Changwenjun.
When Pei Gong became the king of Han, he worshiped Guan Ying as his doctor and followed him into the desert. In the tenth month, he worshiped him as his lieutenant.
Following the king of Han, he pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, captured Shuoyang, and surrendered to the king of Sai.
Besieging Zhang Han's army in Feiqiu, they failed to completely annihilate the enemy.
Following the King of Han to the east, he went out to Linjin Pass, defeated King Yin and surrendered, and pacified his territory.
The troops of Long Qie, the general who attacked Xiang Yu, and Xiang Tuo, the prime minister of Wei, fought bravely in the south of Dingtao and defeated the enemy.
The King of Han granted Guan Ying the title of Lieutenant Marquis, named Changwen Marquis, with his seat in Pingxiang, Du County.
He still followed the King of Han as a visitor to conquer Ci, and then went north to attack Pengcheng.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng, and the King of Han fled westward. Guan Ying followed the King of Han back and garrisoned Yongqiu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
王武、魏公申徒反，从击破之。
攻下外黄，西收军于荥阳。
楚骑来众，汉王乃择军中可为骑将者；皆推故秦骑士重泉人李必、骆甲习骑兵，今为校尉，可为骑将。
汉王欲拜之，必、甲曰： 臣故秦民，恐军不信臣，臣愿得大王左右善骑者傅之。
婴虽少，然数力战，乃拜婴为中大夫，令李必、骆甲为左右校尉，将郎中骑兵击楚骑于荥阳东，大破之。
受诏别击楚军后，绝其饷道，起阳武至襄邑。
击项羽之将项冠于鲁下，破之，所将卒斩右司马、骑将各一人。
击破柘公王武军燕西，所将卒斩楼烦将五人，连尹一人。
击王武别将桓婴白马下，破之，所将卒斩都尉一人。
以骑度河南，送汉王到雒阳，从北迎相国韩信军于邯郸。
还至敖仓，婴迁为御史大夫。
三年，以列侯食邑杜平乡。
受诏将郎中骑兵东属相国韩信，击破齐军于历下，所将卒虏车骑将华毋伤及将吏四十六人。
降下临淄，得相田光。
追齐相田横至嬴、博，击破其骑，所将卒斩骑将一人，生得骑将四人。
攻下嬴、博，破齐将军田吸于千乘，斩之。
东从韩信攻龙且、留公于假密，卒斩龙且，生得右司马、连尹各一人，楼烦将十人，身生得亚将周兰。
齐地已定，韩信自立为齐王，使婴别将击楚将公杲于鲁北，破之。
转南，破薛郡长，身虏骑将一人。
攻傅阳，前至下相以东南僮、取虑、徐。
度淮，尽降其城邑，至广陵。
项羽使项声、薛公、郯公复定淮北，婴度淮击破顶声、郯公下邳，斩薛公，下下邳、寿春。
击破楚骑平阳，遂降彭城。虏柱国项佗，降留、薛、沛、酂、萧、相。
攻苦、谯，复得亚将。
与汉王会颐乡。从击项籍军陈下，破之。
所将卒斩楼烦将二人，虏将八人。
translation: 
Wang Wu and Wei Gongshen disciples rebelled against the Han Dynasty and followed the Han king to defeat them.
He also captured Wai and headed west to Rongyang to reorganize his army.
Since the Chu army had a large number of cavalry, the King of Han chose people in the army who could serve as cavalry generals. Everyone unanimously recommended the former Qin army knights Li Bi and Luo Jia from Chongquan, who were familiar with cavalry. They were school captains at the time and could serve as cavalry generals.
The King of Han wanted to appoint them. Li Bi and Luo Jia said: We are subjects of the Qin Dynasty. I am afraid that the Han army does not trust us. We would like to be assisted by people who are good at cavalry fighting around the King of Han.
Although Guan Ying was young, he had experienced many battles, so he worshiped Guan Ying as the middle doctor, ordered Li Bi and Luo Jia to be the left and right captains, and led the Langzhong cavalry to attack the Chu cavalry with Cambodia in Rongyang, defeating the enemy.
He was also ordered to lead another large army to attack the rear of the Chu army, cut off their food routes, and blockade Yangwu to Xiangyi.
Xiang Guan, the general who attacked Xiang Yu in Lu, defeated the enemy and led his soldiers to kill one of You Sima and one of the cavalry generals.
To the west of Yan, he defeated the army of Duke Zhe and Wang Wu, and led his troops to kill five generals from Lou Fan and one from Lian Yin.
He defeated Xi's general Dan Ying in the imperial palace and defeated the enemy. His soldiers killed one of the captains.
He led the cavalry to the south across the Yellow River, escorted the King of Han until the day was trapped, and went north to meet the army of the Prime Minister on duty at Yisu.
Returning the troops to Aocang, Guan Ying was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the third year, as a lieutenant, he was granted the title of a food town in Pingxiang, Du County.
As a censor, he was ordered to lead the cavalry of the army to the east and return to the Han Dynasty army of the prime minister. He defeated the rebel army in Lixia and led the soldiers to capture the cavalry general Hua Wushang and his forty-six officials.
Linzi was captured and Qi Prime Minister Tian Guang was captured.
He pursued Qi Xiang Tian Heng to Ying and Bo, defeated his cavalry, led his troops to kill one of the cavalry generals, and captured four of them alive.
He captured Gu and Bo, defeated Qi General Tian Su in Qiancheng, and killed him.
Xiangdong followed Han Xin to attack Longdan and Maojin in Baoshi. His subordinates killed Longdan and captured alive each of You Sima and Lian Yin. Ten generals from Loufan personally captured alive the enemy's deputy general Zhou Lan.
Qi had been pacified, and Han Xin proclaimed himself king of Qi. He sent Guan Ying to lead an army to attack Chu General Gong Dai in the north of Lu, and defeated the enemy.
Turning to the south, he defeated the governor of Xue County and personally captured one of the cavalrymen.
Attack Fu Yang and march to Tong, Qili and Xu in the southeast of Xiaxiang.
After crossing the silver carp, they captured all the cities in this area and arrived at Guangling.
Xiang Xing sent Xideng, Sa Gong and Su Gong back to the north. Wei Yingdu marched back and defeated Xideng and Langsheng in Gongpi, killed Zheng Gong, captured Gongpi and Huahua.
Defeated the Chu cavalry at Wangdang, pacified Pengcheng, captured Xiang Tuo of Zhu State, and captured Liu, Xue, Pei, Deng, Lu, and Dao.
Attacked Xuanse and Zhese, and captured another deputy general.
He joined the King of Han in Yixiang and followed the King of Han to defeat Xiang Lan in Chen.
The soldiers he led killed two generals and captured eight generals.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
赐益食邑二千五百户。
项籍败垓下去也，婴以御史大夫将车骑别追项籍至东城，破之。
所将卒五人共斩项籍，皆赐爵列侯。
降左右司马各一人，卒万二千人，尽得其军将吏。
下东城、历阳。
度江破吴郡长吴下，得吴守，遂定吴、豫章、会稽郡。
还定淮北，凡五十二县。
汉王即帝位，赐益婴邑三千户。
以车骑将军从击燕王荼。
明年，从至陈，取楚王信。
还，剖符世世勿绝，食颍阴二千五百户。
从击韩王信于代，至马邑，别降楼烦以北六县，斩代左将，破胡骑将于武泉北。
复从击信胡骑晋阳下，所将卒斩胡白题将一人。
又受诏将燕、赵、齐、梁、楚车骑，击破胡骑于硰石。
至平城，为胡所困。
从击陈豨，别攻豨丞相侯敞军曲逆下，破之，卒斩敞及特将五人。
降曲逆、卢奴、上曲阳、安国、安平。
攻下东垣。
黥布反，以车骑将军先出，攻布别将于相，破之，斩亚将楼烦将三人。
又进击破布上柱国及大司马军。
又进破布别将肥铢。
婴身生得左司马一人，所将卒斩其小将十人，追北至淮上。
益食邑二千五百户。
布已破，高帝归，定令婴食颍阴五千户，除前所食邑。
凡从所得二千石二人，别破军十六，降城四十六，定国一、郡二、县五十二，得将军二人，柱国、相各一人，二千石十人。
婴自破布归，高帝崩，以列侯事惠帝及吕后。
吕后崩，吕禄等欲为乱。
齐哀王闻之，举兵西，吕禄等以婴为大将军往击之。
translation: 
The king of Han increased his number of food towns by 2,500 households.
Xiang Ji failed to escape at Gaixia. Ying, as the censor, led the cavalry to pursue Xiang Ji to Shucheng and defeated the enemy.
Five of his soldiers killed Xiang Ji together, and they were all given the title of marquis.
One man each from the left and right Sima was captured, and 12,000 enemy soldiers were captured. All the enemy generals and soldiers were captured.
Capture Shucheng and Liyang County.
After crossing Dansi, Zaiyu defeated the county magistrate of Chengsu, captured the county magistrate of Cheng, and pacified Cheng, Qi, and Hui Shandeng.
The Hui army pacified a total of fifty-two counties north of Jin Hui.
After the King of Han ascended the throne, he increased the number of households under Guanying to 3,000 households.
As a chariot general, he followed the emperor to attack King Zang Tu of Yan.
The next year, he followed the emperor to Chen County and captured Han Xin, the king of Chu.
After returning in triumph, the emperor cut off the talisman with him as evidence, and made 2,500 households in Yingyin a food town to be passed down from generation to generation.
He followed the emperor to attack King Xin of Han in Daidi, and when he reached Mayi, he led his generals to capture six counties north of Loufan, beheaded the left general of Daidi, and defeated the Huns cavalry north of Wuquan.
He also followed the emperor to attack the cavalry of Han Zhi and Bao Chu in Jinyang. His soldiers killed one of the generals of Li Chu and Zhi Mo.
Under the emperor's military order, he led the troops of Yan, Zhao, Qi, Liang, and Chu to defeat the Xiongnu cavalry at Bishi.
When he arrived at Pingcheng, he was besieged by the Xiongnu army.
He followed the emperor to attack Chen Xi, and led an army to defeat Chen Xi's prime minister Hou Chang's army in Qu Ni, killing Hou Chang and five generals.
Attack Quni, Lunu, Shangquyang, Anguo, Anping and other counties.
Capture Dongdanse.
When Ying Bu rebelled against the Han, Guan Ying went out with his chariot and cavalry generals first. He attacked Ying Bu's partial generals at Xiangdi, defeated the enemy, and beheaded the three deputy generals, Lou Fan and others.
Then he marched and destroyed the army of Shangzhu State and Da Sima of Yingbu.
He also defeated Ying Bu's general Fei Zhu.
Guan Ying captured Zuo Sima alone. His soldiers killed ten young generals and pursued them to the upper reaches of the Huaihe River.
The emperor increased his food estate by 2,500 households.
After Yingbu was wiped out, the emperor returned to the court and decided to let Guan Ying use the five thousand households in Yingyin as a food town and take back the previously sealed food town.
In total, he captured two generals with a salary of two thousand stone, led his troops to destroy the enemy sixteen times, occupied forty-six cities, pacified one traitor, two counties, and fifty-two counties. He captured two generals, one Zhuguo and Xiang each, and ten people with a salary of two thousand stone.
Zhuo Ying defeated Ying Bu and returned to the army. Emperor Gao died and became a prince to assist Emperor Hui and Empress Lu.
After Queen Lu died, Lu Lu and others wanted to rebel.
King Ai of Qi heard the news and led his troops to march westward. Lu Lu and others used Guan Ying as their general to attack the Cha army.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
婴至荥阳，乃与绛侯等谋，因屯兵荥阳，风齐王以诛吕氏事，齐兵止不前。
绛侯等既诛诸吕，齐王罢兵归。
婴自荥阳还，与绛侯、陈平共立文帝。
于是益封婴三千户，赐金千斤，为太尉。
三岁，绛侯勃免相，婴为丞相，罢太尉官。
是岁，匈奴大入北地，上令丞相婴将骑八万五千击匈奴。
匈奴去，济北王反，诏罢婴兵。
后岁余，以丞相薨，谥曰懿侯。
传至孙强，有罪，绝。
武帝复封婴孙贤为临汝侯，奉婴后，后有罪，国除。
傅宽，以魏五大夫骑将从，为舍人，起横阳。
从攻安阳、杠里，赵贲军于开封，及击杨熊曲遇、阳武、斩首十二级，赐爵卿。
从至霸上。
沛公为汉王，赐宽封号共德君。
从入汉中，为右骑将。
定三秦，赐食邑雕阴。
从击项籍，待怀，赐爵通德侯。
从击项冠、周兰、龙且，所将卒斩骑将一人敖下，益食邑。
属淮阴，击破齐历下军，击田解。
属相国参，残博，益食邑。
因定齐地，剖符世世勿绝，封阳陵侯，二千六百户，除前所食。
为齐右丞相，备齐。
五岁，为齐相国。
四月，击陈豨，属太尉勃，以相国代丞相哙击豨。
一月，徙为代相国，将屯。
二岁，为丞相，将屯。
孝惠五年，薨，谥曰景侯。
传至曾孙偃，谋反，诛，国除。
靳歙，以中涓从，起宛朐。
translation: 
When Zhengying arrived at Mingchang, he and Jihuangdong waited for the plan, stationed troops in Rongyang, and persuaded the King of Qi to focus on the execution of the Lu family, and the Qi troops stopped advancing.
After Jianghou and others punished the Lu, the King of Qi withdrew his troops and returned to the country.
Guan Ying returned from Rongyang and joined ministers Jianghou and Chen Ping to support Emperor Wen.
So Guan Ying was given three thousand households to live in, he was rewarded with a thousand catties of gold, and he was worshiped as a Taiwei.
In the third year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, was dismissed as Prime Minister. Zhuo Ying became Prime Minister and no longer served as a Taiwei officer.
This year the Huns invaded the north in a large scale, and the emperor ordered Guan Ying to lead a cavalry of 85,000 people to fight against the Huns.
The Xiongnu retreated, and the King of Jibei rebelled. The emperor issued a letter to Shao and ordered Guan Ying to withdraw his entire army.
More than a year later, Guan Ying died while serving as prime minister. The whole house is filled with Mi.
The title was passed on to his grandson: Bi Qiang, because of his crime, his title was cut off.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Luo Ying's grandson Yi Zi was granted the title of Linru Marquis and was regarded as a descendant of Luo Ying. Later, he was deprived of his land for committing crimes.
Fu Kuan, as one of the five cavalry officers of Wei State, followed Pei Gong in the campaign. He appointed his troops and raised troops in Hengyang.
Following Pei Gong, he captured Anyang and Gangli, defeated Zhao Ben's army in Kaifeng, and attacked Yang Xiong's army in Quyu and Yangwu. He killed twelve enemies and was awarded the title of Duke of Pei.
Follow Pei Gong to Bashang.
Pei Gong became the king of Han and gave Fu Kuan the title of Gongdejun.
He followed the King of Han into Guanzhong and became a right-hand cavalry general.
After pacifying the Three Qin Dynasties, he was given Diaoyin as a food town.
He followed the attack on Xiang Ji and followed the King of Han in Huai County. The King of Han gave him the title of Marquis of Tongde.
He followed and attacked Xiang Guan, Zhou Lan, and Long Qie. The soldiers he led killed one of the enemy cavalry generals under Ao, and the king of Han increased his food.
Under the command of Huaiyin Hou Han Xin, he defeated Qi Zaili's army and attacked Tian Jie.
Under the command of Prime Minister Cao Shen, he destroyed Bo County and increased the number of food towns due to his merits.
Because of his meritorious service in pacifying Qi, the King of Han cut his talisman with him as proof. His title was passed down from generation to generation, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Yangling, with a settlement of 2,600 households, exempting him from the previous settlement.
He became the right prime minister of Qi and stationed in Qi.
Five years later, he became the prime minister of Qi.
In April, Chen Xi was attacked, led by Lieutenant Zhou Bo, who replaced Prime Minister Fan Yan as Prime Minister to attack Chen Xi.
In January, Xiangguo, who was moved to Dai, led the garrison.
Two years later, he was appointed Prime Minister of Dai State and commanded the garrison.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Fu Kuan died and Mi was given the title Jinghou.
The title was passed to his great-grandson Fu Yan, who was killed for treason and the feudal state was abolished.
Zhou Jie, a native of Pei, followed Gaozu as Zhongjuan and raised troops in Wanqu.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
攻济阳。
破李由军。
击秦军开封东，斩骑千人将一人，首五十七级，捕虏七十三人，赐爵封临平君。
又战蓝田北，斩车司马二人，骑长一人，首二十八级，捕虏五十七人。
至霸上，沛公为汉王，赐歙爵建武侯，迁骑都尉。
从定三秦。
别西击章平军于陇西，破之，定陇西六县，所将卒斩车司马、候各四人，骑长十二人。
从东击楚，至彭城。
汉军败还，保雍丘，击反者王武等。
略梁地，别西击邢说军菑南，破之，身得说都尉二人，司马、候十二人，降吏卒四千六百八十人。
破楚军荥阳东。食邑四千二百户。
别之河内，击赵贲军朝歌，破之，所将卒得骑将二人，车马二百五十匹。
从攻安阳以东，至棘蒲，下十县。
别攻破赵军，得其将司马二人，候四人，降吏卒二千四百人。
从降下邯郸。别下平阳，身斩守相，所将卒斩兵守、郡守各一人，降邺。
从攻朝歌、邯郸，又别击破赵军，降邯郸郡六县。
还军敖仓，破项籍军成皋南，击绝楚饷道，起荥阳至襄邑。
破项冠鲁下。
略地东至鄫、郯、下邳，南至蕲、竹邑。
击项悍济阳下。
还击项籍军陈下，破之。
translation: 
Attack Jiyang.
Defeat Li You's army.
Attacked the Qin army in Shumian, Kaifeng, beheaded one of the thousand generals, killed fifty-seven enemies, captured seventy-three prisoners, and granted him the title and title of Lord Linping.
They fought again in the north of Lantian, killing two chariots and horses, one cavalry commander, twenty-eight enemies, and captured fifty-seven prisoners.
Go to Bashang. Pei Gong became the king of Han, bestowed upon him the title of nobility, the title of Marquis of Jianwu, and the rank of Captain of Cavalry.
He followed the King of Han to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and then went west to attack Zhang Ping's army in Longxi and won.
Occupying six counties in Longxi, his men killed four chariot commanders, four horsemen, and twelve cavalry commanders.
Following the king of Han, he attacked the Chu army eastward and fought as far as Pengcheng.
The Han army was defeated and retreated, holding on to Yongqiu and defeating the rebellious Wang Wu and others.
He captured the Liang area and led an army westward to attack Xing Shuo's army in the south of Jun County. He won and personally captured two Xing Shuo captains, 12 Sima and Hou, and surrendered 4,680 enemy troops.
Yishu defeated the Chu army in Rongyang. There were 4,200 households in the enfeoffed towns.
He led his army to Hanoi alone and defeated the army of Chu Bi in Chaoge. His subordinates captured two enemy cavalry generals and 250 horses and chariots.
Following the king of Han, he attacked Anyang Yishu, fought as far as Jipu, and occupied ten counties.
He also led another army to defeat Tong's army and captured two enemy generals, Sima and four others, and 2,400 officials and soldiers surrendered.
He followed the King of Han to capture Handan, and then led his army to capture Pingyang. He personally beheaded the governor, and his subordinates beheaded an enemy governor and pacified Ye County.
He followed the King of Han to attack Chaoge and Handan, and led his own army to defeat the army of Chang, and captured six counties in Handan County.
Returning to Aocang, he defeated Xiang Ji in the south of Chenggao, cut off the Chu army's food and salary route, and blocked the area from Rongyang to Xiangyi.
Defeat a champion in Ludi.
The occupied land extended to Gao, Tan and Xiapi, and to Qixian and Zhuyi in the south.
Attack Xiang Han in Jiyang.
Returning his army to Chen, he attacked Xiang Ji's army and won. He led his army to pacify Jiangling.


