Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 4, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
扬雄字子云，蜀郡成都人也。
其先出自有周伯侨者，以支庶初食采于晋之扬，因氏焉，不知伯侨周何别也。
扬在河、汾之间，周衰而扬氏或称侯，号曰扬侯。
会晋六卿争权、韩、魏、赵兴而范中行、知伯弊。
当是时，逼扬侯，扬侯逃于楚巫山，因家焉。
楚汉之兴也，扬氏溯江上，处巴江州。
而扬季官至庐江太守。
汉元鼎间避仇复溯江上，处岷山之阳曰郫，有田一廛，有宅一区，世世以农桑为业。
自季至雄，五世而传一子，故雄亡它扬于蜀。
雄少而好学，不为章句，训诂通而已，博览无所不见。
为人简易佚荡，口吃不能剧谈，默而好深湛之思，清静亡为，少耆欲，不汲汲于富贵，不戚戚于贫贱，不修廉隅以徼名当世。
家产不过十金，乏无儋石之储，晏如也。
自有下度：非圣哲之书不好也；非其意，虽富贵不事也。
顾尝好辞赋。
先是时，蜀有司马相如，作赋甚弘丽温雅，雄心壮之，每作赋，常拟之以为式。
又怪屈原文过相如，至不容，作《离骚》，自投江而死，悲其文，读之未尝不流涕也。
以为君子得时则大行，不得时则龙蛇，遇不遇命也，何必湛身哉！
乃作书，往往摭《离骚》文而反之，自岷山投诸江流以吊屈原，名曰《反离骚》；又旁《离骚》作重一篇，名曰《广骚》；又旁《惜诵》以下至《怀沙》一卷，名曰《畔牢愁》。
《畔牢愁》、《广骚》文多，不载，独载《反离骚》，其辞曰：
有周氏之蝉嫣兮，或鼻祖于汾隅，灵宗初谍伯侨兮，流于末之扬侯。
淑周楚之丰烈兮，超既离乎皇波，因江潭而氵往托兮，钦吊楚之湘累。惟天轨之不辟兮，何纯洁而离纷！
纷累以其淟涊兮，暗累以其缤纷。汉十世之阳朔兮，招摇纪于周正，正皇天之清则兮，度后土之方贞。
translation: 
Yang Xiong, courtesy name Ziyun, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
His ancestors were descendants of Zhou Boqiao. As a side branch of the common people, they took Yang of Jin as their food town and took it as their surname. It is not known which branch of Zhou Boqiao belonged to.
Yang is located between He and Fen. After the decline of Zhou Dynasty, some people in the Yang family were called marquises and were known as Yanghou.
When the six ministers of the Jin Dynasty struggled for power, Han, Wei, and Zhao rose, while Fan, Zhongxing, and Zhibo declined.
At this time, Yang Hou was forced to flee to Chuwu Mountain and settled there.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties arose, the Yang family traveled up the river and lived in Bajiang Prefecture.
Yang Jiguan became the prefect of Lujiang.
In the Dingjian of Han Dynasty, he avoided his enemies and went upriver. He lived in Pi, south of Mount Laoshan, where he had a farm and a house. He had been farming and raising silkworms for generations.
From Ji to Xiong, there was only one son in the Five Dynasties, so Yang Xiong had no other Yang clan in Shu.
Yang Xiong was eager to learn when he was a child. He did not study chapters and sentences. He only knew the explanations of words. He was well-read and read everything.
He is easy-going and tolerant, stutters and cannot speak quickly, is silent and contemplative, is quiet and inactive, has no hobbies and desires, does not pursue wealth, does not worry about poverty, and does not deliberately cultivate his character to gain fame in the world.
The family property does not exceed ten pieces of gold, and he is so poor that he does not have a stone to spare, but he is very safe.
If you have a broad mind, you won't like the books of sages; if they don't suit your own needs, you won't do them even if you can get rich and powerful.
But I like Ci Fu very much.
Previously, there was Sima Xiangru in Shu, and his poems were magnificent and elegant. Yang Zhongzhi admired him, and often used him as an example to imitate every time he wrote poems.
I was also surprised that Qu Yuan's writing was more talented than Xiangru, but he was not accepted. He wrote "Li Sao" and threw himself into the river to die. I felt sad for his article, and everyone read it without crying.
I believe that a gentleman can accomplish much when the times are going well, but when the times are not going well, he is just like a dragon and a snake dormant, and whether the opportunities are good or not depends on his destiny, so why bother throwing yourself into the water!
So he wrote an article, often excerpting sentences from "Li Sao" to refute it, and threw himself from Shushan into the river to mourn Qu Yuan, which was called "Reverse Lisao";
There are many texts in "Ban Lao Chou" and "Guang Sao" that do not record it. They only record "Anti Lisao", which says:
It is related to the Zhou family, which originated from Fenpan. The descendants of the gods began to write genealogies from Boqiao and developed to the last generation of Yanghou.
After experiencing the great turbulence of the river, he received the beauty of Zhou and Chu. He dropped memorials along the riverside to mourn the innocent dead ministers of Chu and Xiang. The road to heaven is impassable, so why are the innocent beings in trouble?
Dirty and unclear things are mixed and confused. In the tenth generation of the Han Dynasty, Yangshuo was reached, and the time of the swagger was the first month of Zhou Dynasty, which was based on the Qingming Festival of the emperor and the Zhouzheng of the earth.
summary:
Yang Xiong, courtesy name Ziyun, was from Chengdu, Shu County. His ancestors were descendants of Zhou Boqiao, but as a side branch, they took Yang of Jin as their surname. After the Zhou Dynasty declined, some Yang family members became marquises. During the power struggles of the six ministers of Jin, Yang Hou fled to Chuwu Mountain. Later, during the Chu-Han conflict, the Yang family moved to Bajiang Prefecture. Yang Jiguan served as prefect of Lujiang, and during the Han Dynasty, his ancestor Yang Ji settled in Pi, south of Mount Laoshan, where the family farmed and raised silkworms for generations. From Ji to Xiong, there was only one son per generation for five generations, so Yang Xiong had no other Yang clan in Shu. Yang Xiong was eager to learn as a child, not studying chapters and sentences but focusing on word explanations. He was well-read, easy-going, and tolerant, with a stutter that made him speak slowly. He was contemplative, quiet, and without strong desires, not pursuing wealth or fame. His family property was meager, but he remained content. He admired Sima Xiangru's poetry and imitated him. He also felt sorrow for Qu Yuan's fate, believing a gentleman should adapt to circumstances rather than drown himself. He wrote "Reverse Lisao" to refute Qu Yuan's actions, excerpting from "Li Sao" to express his views.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
图累承彼洪族兮，又览累之昌辞，带钩矩而佩衡兮，履欃枪以为綦。
素初贮厥丽服兮，何文肆而质！
资娵、娃炎珍髢兮，鬻九戎而索赖。
凤皇翔于蓬陼兮，岂驾鹅之能捷！
骋骅骝以曲艰兮，驴骡连蹇而齐足。
枳棘之榛榛兮，蝯虫穴拟而不敢下，灵修既信椒、兰之唼佞兮，吾累忽焉而不蚤睹？衿芰茄之绿衣兮，被夫容之朱裳，芳酷烈而莫闻兮，不如襞而幽之离房。
闺中容竞淖约兮，相态以丽佳，知众嫭之嫉妒兮，何必扬累之蛾眉？
懿神龙之渊潜，俟庆云而将举，亡春风之被离兮，孰焉知龙之所处？
愍吾累之众芬兮，扬烨烨之芳苓，遭季夏之凝霜兮，庆夭悴而丧荣。
横江、湘以南氵往兮，云走乎彼苍吾，驰江潭之泛溢兮，将折衷乎重华。
舒中情之烦或兮，恐重华之不累与，陵阳侯之素波兮，岂吾累之独见许？
精琼靡与秋菊兮，将以延夫天年；临汩罗而自陨兮，恐日薄于西山。解扶桑之总辔兮，纵令之遂奔驰，鸾皇腾而不属兮，岂独飞廉与云师！
卷薜芷与若蕙兮，临湘渊而投之；棍申椒与菌桂兮，赴江湖而沤之。费椒稰以要神兮，又勤索彼琼茅，违灵氛而不从兮，反湛身于江皋！
累既攀夫傅说兮，奚不信而遂行？
徒恐鷤䳏之将鸣兮，顾先百草为不芳！
初累弃彼虙妃兮，更思瑶台之逸女，抨雄鸩以作媒兮，何百离而曾不一耦！
乘云蜺之旖柅兮，望昆仑以樛流，览四荒而顾怀兮，奚必云女彼高丘？
既亡鸾车之幽蔼兮，驾八龙之委蛇？临江濒而掩涕兮，何有《九招》与《九歌》？
夫圣哲之遭兮，固时命之所有；虽增欷以于邑兮，吾恐灵修之不累改。
昔仲尼之去鲁兮，婓々迟迟而周迈，终回复于旧都兮，何必湘渊与涛濑！
混渔父之餔歠兮，洁沐浴之振衣，弃由、聃之所珍兮，庶彭咸之所遗！
孝成帝时，客有荐雄文似相如者，上方郊祠甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土，以求继嗣，召雄待诏承明之庭。
正月，从上甘泉，还奏《甘泉赋》以风。
translation: 
After thinking that you are a noble, I also see your beautiful words, wearing rules and scales, and walking in the footsteps of the demon star.
She usually wears beautiful clothes, but why is her literary talent so narrow-minded?
She had Kunwa's beautiful hair, but she sold it to Jiurong for profit.
The phoenix is ​​flying on the wall, but it can't be caught by a goose!
Yiliu ran through twists and turns and had difficulty keeping up with the donkeys and mules.
Zhijiji is dirty and messy, and Yuan Hang is too worried to go down. Since King Chu believed Tan and Yan’s slander, why didn’t you notice it earlier? Wearing green clothes of lettuce and red clothes of hibiscus, the fragrance is so strong that no one can find it in this world, so it is better to fold it up and put it in another room.
The women compete with each other with their graceful looks, competing with each other in beauty. You know how jealous the beauties are, why do you frown?
The beautiful dragon lurks in the abyss, waiting for the clouds to rise and take off. Without the spring breeze, who knows where the dragon is?
It's a pity that your fragrant fragrance, the fragrant lings that floated in full bloom, were hit by the cold frost of the summer, died young and lost their beauty.
Cross the Hengjiang and Xiangjiang rivers and go south to Cangwu, riding the waves of Liaotan to seek justice from Chonghua.
Telling the troubles in my heart, I am afraid that Chonghua will not turn to you. If I ride on the white waves of Yanghou, will I only praise you?
Jingqiongmi and Qiuju should be used to enjoy life for a long time. They will sink themselves in the face of difficulties and are afraid of the sunset. Untie the bridle of Fusang's car and let it run wildly. Even Luanhuang's soaring speed can't keep up. It's not just Yingqing and Nuomian!
Roll up the rhizome and ruohui and throw them into the bottom of Hunan; a lot of pepper and fungus are drowned in the rivers and lakes. He used pepper paste to pray to the gods, and found a lot of Qiongmao. He did not listen to the spirit's divination, but he drowned by the river!
Since you admire what Fu said, why don't you really put it into practice?
It is in vain to worry that the doves will crow, but there will be no fragrance before the herbs!
It turns out that you abandoned your virgin concubine, and you wanted the beauties from Yaotai, so you asked the male concubine to be your matchmaker. Why did you leave so many times and not even one was worthy of you?
Riding on the beautiful clouds, traveling around Kenhe, looking around and feeling sentimental, why do you have to be an official in Gaoqiu?
If you don't have a magnificent chariot, how can you drive the eight dragons? Wiping tears by the riverside, how can there be "Nine Moves" and "Nine Songs"?
What happened to the sage was a matter of time and fate. Even though you often lament, I am afraid that your spiritual practice will not change because of you.
Once upon a time, Zhongni left Lu and traveled around, and finally returned to his old country. Why would he have to join the rapids at the bottom of Hunan!
Thinking that the fisherman was polluted by eating bad food and drinking pickled food, he shook off his clothes after taking a bath to be pure and pure, throwing away what was cherished by his pride and pride, and made the same mistake as Peng Xian!
When Xiao became emperor, a retainer recommended Yang Xiong's article as Dan Ying. The emperor spent three hours cultivating the ancestral temple in the outskirts of the city, and came to ask for an heir. He summoned Yang Xiong to wait for the imperial edict in Cheng Long's court.
In the first month of the first lunar month, he went up to Juxing and came back to play "Ode to Sweet Springs" as a satirical remonstrance.
summary:
During Emperor Cheng's reign, a retainer recommended Yang Xiong's writing. The emperor summoned him to wait for an imperial edict. In the first month, Yang Xiong presented "Ode to Sweet Springs" as a satirical remonstrance. The ode described the grand procession to Ganquan Palace, its magnificent architecture, and the emperor's prayers for blessings. Yang Xiong praised the palace's splendor but subtly criticized its extravagance, comparing it to the imperial Purple Palace and suggesting it was built by ghosts and gods. He also noted that Zhaoyi, the emperor's favored consort, accompanied him, which he tactfully advised against.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是事毕功弘，回车而归，度三峦兮偈棠梨。
天阃决兮地垠开，八荒协兮万国谐。
岭巆嶙峋，洞无厓兮。上天之縡，杳旭卉兮，圣皇穆穆，信厥对兮。
俫祗效禋，神所依兮，徘徊招摇，灵迟兮。
辉光眩耀，隆厥福兮，子子孙孙，长亡极兮。
甘泉本因秦离宫，既奢泰，而武帝复增通天、高光、迎风。
宫外近则洪崖、旁皇、储胥、弩阹，远则石关、封峦、枝鹊、露寒、棠梨、师得，游观屈奇瑰玮，非木摩而不雕，墙涂而不画，周宣所考，般庚所迁，夏卑宫室，唐、虞棌椽三等之制也。
且其为已久矣，非成帝所造，欲谏则非时，欲默则不能已，故遂推而隆之，乃上比于帝室紫宫，若曰此非人力之所为，党鬼神可也。
又是时赵昭仪方大幸，每上甘泉，常法从，在属车间豹尾中。
故雄聊盛言车骑之众，参丽之驾，非所以感动天地，逆釐三神。
又言 屏玉女，却虑妃 ，以微戒齐肃之事。
赋成，奏之，天子异焉。
其三月，将祭后土，上乃帅群臣横大河，凑汾阴。
既祭，行游介山，回安邑，顾龙门，览盐池，登历观，陟西岳以望八荒，迹殷、周之虚，眇然以思唐、虞之风。
雄以为，临川羡鱼不如归而结网，还，上《河东赋》以劝。
其辞曰：伊年暮春，将瘗后土，礼灵祇，谒汾阴于东郊，因兹以勒崇垂鸿，发祥隤祉，饮若神明者，盛哉铄乎，越不可载已！于是命群臣，齐法服，整灵舆，乃抚翠凤之驾，六先景之乘，掉奔星之流旃，彏天狼之威弧。
张耀日之玄旄，扬左纛，被云梢。
奋电鞭，骖雷辎，鸣洪钟，建五旗。
羲和司日，颜伦奉舆，风发飙拂，神腾鬼趡；千乘霆乱，万骑屈桥，嘻嘻旭旭，天地稠。
translation: 
So when the work was done, I changed my car and returned, passing through Sanman, resting in the fortress, where did I go?
The gates of heaven and the earth are opened, and the eight wastelands are harmonious with all nations.
The king of the land reclamation beats the thunder drum, the sound is loud and the ten brave men rise up, the clouds are flying and the rain is pouring, it is said that virtue shines on the world. Luan said: The high circular hills, the high and far sky, rise and fall, and circle around. The palaces are staggered, tall and connected, and the layers are deep and boundless. The things of heaven are high and swift, the Holy Emperor is beautiful, and they are in harmony with heaven and earth.
Come to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, the gods are attached to you, wandering and swaying, relaxed and relaxed.
The brilliance is dazzling, and the blessings are brought down, and the descendants will be endless forever.
Ganquan was originally built on the basis of Qin Li Palace. It was already very luxurious and gorgeous. Emperor Wu also added a towering, high-gloss, and wind-facing building.
Outside the palace are Hongya, Panghuang, Chuxu, and Nulu in the distance, and in the distance are Shiguan, Fengluan, Zhique, Luhan, Tangli, and Shide. The tour is magnificent and majestic. There are no wooden vessels that are not carved, and there are no walls that are not painted.
And it was a long time ago and was not built by Emperor Cheng. Yang Xiong wanted to remonstrate but felt it was not the right time. He wanted to be silent but couldn't do it himself, so he praised it and compared it to the Purple Palace of the imperial family, as if it was not built by human power. It would be okay if it was built by ghosts and gods.
At this time, Zhaoyi was being favored. Whenever he went to Ganquan, he would always let her follow him according to etiquette and sit in the leopard's tail of the carriage.
Therefore, Yang Xiong tries his best to describe the chariots as numerous and beautiful, but they cannot be used to move heaven and earth and pray for blessings from the three gods.
He also said that he would repel jade girls and worry about concubines to tactfully exhort him to be pious.
The emperor was very surprised when the poem was completed.
In March of that year, when he wanted to offer sacrifices to his queen, the emperor led his ministers across the river and arrived at Fenyin.
After the sacrifice, we visited Jieshan on the road, bypassed Anyi, visited Longmen, Yanchi, climbed to the Li Temple, went up to the Huashan Mountains and looked at the eight wastelands, walked on the site of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, looked far away and missed the wind of Tang and Yu.
Yang Xiong thought that it would be better for the fish in Linchuan to retreat and build a net. After returning, he offered "Hedong Fu" to satirize and admonish him. The poem said:
In the late spring of this year, I wanted to offer sacrifices to my ancestors and worship the spirits. I went to Fenyin in the suburbs of Shu, where I carved my honorary name, passed down my great deeds, brought good fortune and brought blessings, and respected and obeyed the gods. It was so magnificent that I can’t finish the book! Then he ordered the ministers to dress up their legal uniforms and spiritual flags, carry a chariot decorated with emerald phoenixes, ride on six swift horses, turn around and run on a star-like flow, opening up the majestic arc of the Sirius.
Open the Xuanyuan that shines in the sun, raise the left 纛, and cover it with clouds.
Raise the electric whip, drive the thunder chariot, ring the bell, and raise the five flags.
Xihe is in charge of the sun, Yan Lun is driving, the wind is blowing, gods and ghosts are galloping; thousands of chariots and cavalry are vigorous and vigorous, and they are contented and contented, and the heaven and earth are shaken.
summary:
In March, the emperor went to Fenyin for sacrifices, visiting various historical sites. Yang Xiong offered "Hedong Fu" to satirize, praising the emperor's journey and reflecting on ancient rulers. He emphasized the importance of virtue and following the examples of the Three Emperors and Five Emperors.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
簸丘跳峦，涌渭跃泾。
秦神下詟，跖魂负沴；河灵矍踢，掌华蹈衰。
遂臻阴宫，穆穆肃肃，蹲蹲如也。
灵祇既乡，五位时叙，絪缊玄黄，将绍厥后。
于是灵舆安步，周流容与，以览乎介山。
嗟文公而愍推兮，勤大禹于龙门，洒沈灾于豁渎兮，播九河于东濒。
登历观而遥望兮，聊浮游以经营。乐往昔之遗风兮，喜虞氏之所耕。
瞰帝唐之嵩高兮，眽隆周之大宁。
汨低回而不能去兮，行睨陔下与彭城。秽南巢之坎坷兮，易豳岐之夷平。
乘翠龙而超河兮，陟西岳之峣崝。
隃于穆之缉熙兮，过《清庙》之雍雍；轶五帝之遐迹兮，蹑三皇之高踪。
既发轫于平盈兮，谁谓路远而不能从？其十二月羽猎，雄从。
以为昔在二帝、三王，宫馆、台榭、沼池、苑囿、林麓、薮泽，财足以奉郊庙、御宾客、充庖厨而已，不夺百姓膏腴谷土桑柘之地。
女有余布，男有余粟，国家殷富，上下交足，故甘露零其庭，醴泉流其唐，凤皇巢其树，黄龙游其沼，麒麟臻其囿，神爵栖其林。
昔者禹任益虞而上下和，草木茂；成汤好田而天下用足；文王囿百里，民以为尚小；齐宣王囿四十里，民以为大；裕民之与夺民也。
武帝广开上林，南至宜春、鼎胡、御宿、昆吾，旁南山而西，至长杨、五柞，北绕黄山，濒渭而东，周袤数百里，穿昆明池象滇河，营建章、凤阙、神明、馺娑，渐台、泰液象海水周流方丈、瀛洲、蓬莱。
游观侈靡，穷妙极丽。
虽颇割其三垂以赡齐民，然至羽猎、田车、戎马、器械、储偫、禁御所营，尚泰奢丽夸诩，非尧、舜、成汤、文王三驱之意也。
又恐后世复修前好，不折中以泉台，故聊因《校猎赋》以风，其辞曰：
或称戏、农，岂或帝王之弥文哉？
论者云否，各亦并时而得宜，奚必同条而共贯？
则泰山之封，乌得七十而有二仪？
是以创业垂统者俱不见其爽，遐迩五三孰知其是非？
遂作颂曰：丽哉神圣，处于玄宫，富既与地乎侔訾，贵正与天乎比崇。
齐桓曾不足使扶毂，楚严未足以为骖乘；陿三王之厄薜，峤高举而大兴；历五帝之寥郭，涉三皇之登闳；建道德以为师，友仁义与为朋。
于是玄冬季月，天地隆烈，万物权舆于内，徂落于外，帝将惟田于灵之囿，开北垠，受不周之制，以终始颛顼、玄冥之统。
乃诏虞人典泽，东延昆邻，西驰闛阖。
translation: 
Jump over hills and mountains, jump over Jingwei rivers.
The god of Qin jumps in fear, and his soul leans on the embankment; the spirit of the river is startled, and his palms are in China, and his feet are falling.
Then he arrived at the Yin Palace, solemn and solemn, and his actions were measured.
The spirit has arrived, the order of the gods of the five directions has been determined, the sky is mysterious and the earth is yellow, and the great prosperity will follow.
So Lingyu stabilized his position and traveled around Anyu. Visit the company.
Sighing at Se Gong, he became a hero and felt sad. He mourned Yu the Great in the ridges, dug ditches to divert the floods, and spread the nine rivers along the coast of the East China Sea.
Climb the calendar to look far away and plan your travels. Appreciate the wind of the past, and like the land where the Yu family cultivated.
I saw the height of Emperor Tang and the tranquility of Sheng Zhou.
I couldn't leave because I wanted to see Peixia and Pengcheng. I hate the ruggedness of Nanchao, but I love the Guangping of Binqi.
Cross the river on a green dragon and climb the majestic Mount Huashan. The clouds floated in to greet me, the rain and dew fell, the silence was deep and the clouds lingered.
Encourage the gods to set an example and praise the Six Classics to express their aspirations. To be virtuous is too Zhou; to imitate the Three Emperors is better than the Five Emperors.
Starting from Pinglu, who said we can't follow if we have a long way to go? In December of this year, Yu hunted and Yang Xiong followed.
It is believed that during the time of the second emperor and the third king in ancient times, the products of the palaces, pavilions, marshes, ponds, gardens, woods, and deep lakes were enough to serve suburban temples, receive guests, and fill the kitchen, without robbing the people of their fertile grain fields and land for growing mulberry trees.
Women have surplus cloth, men have surplus grain, the country is rich and abundant, so the dew falls in the garden, the sweet spring gushes out from the pond, the phoenix builds its nest in the tree, the yellow dragon swims in the pond, the unicorn comes to the garden, and the divine sparrow roosts in the forest.
In the past, Yu appointed Yi to be in charge of the mountains and rivers, which were harmonious and luxuriant. Chengtang loved hunting in the fields and the world had sufficient wealth. King Wen's garden was a hundred miles long, but the people still thought it was too small. King Xuan of Qi's garden was forty miles long, but the people thought it was too big. This is the difference between making the people rich and robbing them of their wealth.
Emperor Wu expanded Shanglin to Yichun, Dinghu, Yusu, and Kunwu in the south, Nanshan Mountain in the west, Changyang and Wuzha, Huangshan Mountain in the north, and Weishui River in the east, with a circumference of several hundred miles. Following the example of the Dian River, the Kunming Pool was excavated to build Jianzhang, Fengque, Shenming, Yusuo, Jiantai, Taiye and Xiangxiang seawater to surround Fangzhang, Yingzhou and Penglai.
The sightseeing is luxurious and wonderful.
Although a lot of the three sides of Shanglin Garden were cut off for the common people, the construction of palace walls for hunting fields, chariots, horses, and equipment was still too extravagant and flashy, which was not the original intention of Yao, Shun, Cheng Tang, and King Wen.
Yang Xiong was also afraid that his descendants would add more repairs due to hobbies, so he did not take Quantai as a lesson, so he used "Xiao Xie Fu" to satirize and admonish him, saying in his speech:
Some people praise Xi Nong, but are future emperors more decorated?
The commentators said no, each one should adapt to the circumstances, so why should we follow one standard?
Otherwise, how could there be seventy-two rituals for sealing Mount Tai?
Therefore, those who start a business are not wrong. Who knows what is right or wrong among the Five Emperors and Three Kings near and far?
So he sang a poem: It is sacred and magnificent, living in Xuan Palace, as rich as the earth, as noble as the sky.
Qi Huan is not worthy to support the chariot, and Chu Yan is not worthy to drive the horse; break through the remoteness of the three kings and stride forward; be as grand as the five emperors, as high as the three emperors; use morality as a teacher, and make friends with benevolence and righteousness.
So in the last month of Yanyan, when the Yin Qi is strong, everything is born inside and dies outside. The emperor wants to go hunting in Lingde's garden, open up the north, and brave the northwest wind to inherit the legacy of Zhuanxu and Xuanming.
The people of Yu were ordered to take charge of the lake, and it was sent to Kunbian and to Guihe in the west.
summary:
In December, Yang Xiong accompanied the emperor on a hunt. He believed that ancient rulers managed resources wisely, ensuring prosperity without harming the people. He criticized Emperor Wu's expansion of Shanglin Garden and the construction of lavish palaces, arguing they were excessive. He presented "Xiao Xie Fu" to satirize, describing the grand hunt and its impact on the land and people. He urged the emperor to focus on virtue, share resources with the people, and avoid extravagance. The ode concluded with a call for moral governance and a return to simplicity.

