Chunk 0: 
original: 
相如为郎数岁，会唐蒙使略通夜郎、僰中，发巴、蜀吏卒，千人，郡又多为发转漕万余人，用军兴法诛其渠率。巴、蜀民大惊恐。
上闻之，乃遣相如责唐蒙等，因谕告巴、蜀民以非上意。
檄曰：告巴、蜀太守：蛮夷自擅，不讨之日久矣，时侵犯边境，劳士大夫。
陛下即位，存抚天下，集安中国，然后兴师出兵，北征匈奴，单于怖骇，交臂受事，屈膝请和。
康居西域，重译纳贡，稽首来享。
移师东指，闽越相诛；右吊番禺，太子入朝。
南夷之君，西僰之长，常效贡职，不敢惰怠，延颈举踵，喁喁然，皆乡风慕义，欲为臣妾，道里辽远，山川阻深，不能自致。
夫不顺者已诛，而为善者未赏，故道中郎将往宾之，发巴、蜀之士各百人以奉币，卫使者不然，靡有兵革之事，战斗之患。
今闻其乃发军兴制，惊惧子弟，忧患长老，郡又擅为转粟运输，皆非陛下之意也。
当行者或亡逃自贼杀，亦非人臣之节也。
夫边郡之士，闻烽举燧燔，皆摄弓而弛，荷兵而走，流汗相属，惟恐居后，触白刃，冒流矢，议不反顾，计不旋踵，人怀怒心，如报私仇。
彼岂乐死恶生，非编列之民，而与巴、蜀异主哉？
计深虑远，急国家之难，而乐尽人臣之道也。
故有剖符之封，析圭而爵，位为通侯，居列东第。终则遗显号于后世，传土地于子孙，事行甚忠敬，居位甚安佚，名声施于无穷，功烈著而不灭。
是以贤人君子，肝脑涂中原，膏液润野草而不辞也。
今奉币役至南夷，即自贼杀，或亡逃抵诛，身死无名，谥为至愚，耻及父母，为天下笑。
translation: 
During the few years that Xiangru served as a Langguan, Tang Meng was ordered to open Yelang and Fenzhong in the west, and levied a thousand officials and soldiers from Bajun and Shujun. The county also sent tens of thousands more people to transport grain from land and waterways, and executed the leaders who disobeyed the order according to wartime laws. The people of Bajun and Shujun were greatly frightened.
When the emperor learned of this, he sent Sima Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and others, and took the opportunity to inform the people of Ba and Shu counties that Tang Meng's actions were not the emperor's original intention.
The message said: Inform the governors of Bajun and Shujun that the barbarians do not submit to the jurisdiction of the Han Dynasty and have not attacked them for a long time. They often invaded the border and made the sergeants and generals work hard.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he has taken care of the world and brought peace and stability to China. Then he mobilized troops to attack the Huns in the north. Shanzi was frightened, surrendered, and begged for peace.
Kangju and other countries in the Western Regions sent envoys with generous gifts, tributes, and sacrifices.
The army pointed eastward, and Minyue was pacified. To appease Panyu on the right, the King of Nanyue sent the prince to the court.
The monarch of Nanyi and the commander-in-chief of Xifen often served and contributed to the court, and did not dare to slack off. They hoped to return to Daoyi as soon as possible and wanted to serve the Han family. However, because of the long distance and the obstacles of mountains and rivers, they could not pay their respects in person.
Those who disobeyed have been killed, but those who have done good have not been rewarded, so Zhonglang will be sent to make them submit. Five hundred soldiers each from Bajun and Shujun were recruited to offer gifts and guard the envoys to prevent accidents, so that there would be no war or danger of war.
Now that I heard that there is a plan to raise troops, the young people are frightened, the elderly are worried, and the county is transporting food and supplies without authorization. This is not His Majesty's original intention.
Some of the people who applied for the conscription committed suicide, and some ran away. Recruitment was not the moral character that a subject should have.
When the soldiers in border counties heard that beacons were raised and their accumulated wages were burning, they all took their bows and arrows and galloped forward to the battlefield, carrying their weapons and rushing to the battlefield. They were so tired that they were sweating but still followed closely for fear of falling behind. When fighting, they clash with sharp blades, risk flying arrows, and move forward bravely for the sake of morality without retreating. Everyone is filled with anger, just like seeking personal revenge.
Could it be that they love death and hate life, are not good citizens registered in the household registration, and are they not the same monarch as Bajun and Shujun?
Rather, they plan and think deeply, put the country's danger first, and are willing to fulfill their obligations as subjects!
In the past, some people cut talismans and received rewards, were awarded titles, were promoted to nobles, and lived in high-class residences. When they died, they left noble titles for their descendants and passed them on to their descendants. They were extremely loyal and respectful in their work during their lifetime, and felt very comfortable in their official positions. After their death, their fame lasted endlessly, and their achievements were outstanding and will never be extinguished.
Therefore, wise men and gentlemen will not hesitate to use their liver and brain to smear the Central Plains, and use their flesh and blood to nourish the grass.
Now when the coin envoys have arrived in Nanyi, they kill each other, some escape and are killed, and die without a good reputation. They should be called the most stupid people. The shame involves their parents and they are ridiculed by everyone in the world.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
人之度量相越，岂不远哉！
然此非独行者之罪也，父兄之教不先，子弟之率不谨，寡廉鲜耻，而俗不长厚也。
其被刑戮，不亦宜乎！
陛下患使者有司之若彼，悼不肖愚民之如此，故遣信使，晓谕百姓以发卒之事，因数之以不忠死亡之罪，让三老孝弟以不教诲之过。
方今田时，重烦百姓，已亲见近县，恐远所溪谷山泽之民不遍闻，檄到，亟下县道，咸谕陛下意，毋忽！
相如还报。
唐蒙已略通夜郎，因通西南夷道，发巴、蜀、广汉卒，作者数万人。
治道二岁，道不成，士卒多物故，费以亿万计。
蜀民及汉用事者多言其不便。
是时邛、莋之君长闻南夷与汉通，得赏赐多，多欲愿为内臣妾，请吏，比南夷。
上问相如，相如曰： 邛、莋、冉、駹者近署，道易通，异时尝通为郡县矣，至汉兴而罢。
今诚复通，为置县，愈于南夷。
上以为然，乃拜相如为中郎将，建节往使。
副使者王然于、壶弃国、吕越人，驰四乘之传，因巴、蜀吏币物以赂西南夷。
至蜀，太守以下郊迎，县令负弩矢先驱，蜀人以为宠。
于是卓王孙、临邛诸公皆因门下献牛、酒以交欢。
卓王孙喟然而汉，自以得使女尚司马长卿晚，乃厚分与其女财，与男等。
相如使略定西南夷，邛、莋、再、駹、斯榆之君皆请为臣妾，除边关，边关益斥，西至沫、若水，南至牁牂为徼，通灵山道，桥孙水，以通邛、莋。
还报，天子大说。
相如使时，蜀长老多言通西南夷之不为用，大臣亦以为然。
相如欲谏，业已建之，不敢，乃著书，借蜀父老为辞，而己诘难之，以风天子，且因宣其使指，令百姓皆知天子意。
其辞曰：
汉兴七十有八载，德茂存乎六世，威武纷云，港恩汪濊，群生霑濡，洋溢乎方外。
于是乃命使西征，随流而攘，风之所被，罔不披靡。
因朝冉从駹，定莋存邛，略斯榆，举苞蒲，结轨还辕，东乡将报，至于蜀都。
耆老大夫搢绅先生之徒二十有七人，俨然造焉。
辞毕，进曰： 盖闻天子之于夷狄也，其义羁縻勿绝而已。
今罢三郡之士，通夜郎之涂，三年于兹，而功不竟。士卒劳倦，万民不赡；今又接之以西夷，百姓力屈，恐不能卒业，此亦使者这累也，窃为左右患之。
且夫邛、莋、西僰之与中国并也，历年兹多，不可记已。
仁者不以德来，强者不以力并，意者殆不可乎！
今割齐民以附夷狄，弊所恃以事无用，鄙人固陋，不识所谓。
使者曰： 乌谓此乎？
必若所云，则是蜀不变服而巴不化俗也，仆尚恶闻若说。
translation: 
Isn’t there a huge gap in people’s measurements?
Of course, this is not only the fault of those who applied for the draft, but also because their fathers and brothers were not strict in their education and did not set an example for their children. The people had no moral integrity and were shameless, and the customs were not honest.
Isn’t it right for some of them to be killed?
Today, the emperor is worried that the envoys and officials will be like this, as are the sad and unworthy ignorant people. Therefore, he sends honest envoys to clearly inform the people about the recruitment of soldiers. He takes this opportunity to rebuke the fools who are disloyal and escape and commit suicide, and blames the three elders and filial brothers who are in charge of education for not teaching.
It was the farming season, and I was particularly careful not to bother the people. I had already personally informed the people in the nearby counties. I was worried that the people in the remote areas and in the valleys and mountains would not be widely heard. When the message arrived, I quickly distributed it to all counties and provinces to generally inform the emperor of his thoughts, hoping that they would not be ignored.
Xiangru returns the report.
Tang Meng had already opened up Yelang, and took advantage of this to open the road to the southwestern Yi. He recruited soldiers from the three counties of Ba, Shu, and Guanghan, and tens of thousands of them worked.
It took two years to build the road, but it was not completed. Most of the soldiers died, and the money spent was calculated in hundreds of millions.
Most people in Shu County and those in power in the Han Dynasty said that it was not good for the country.
At that time, the commanders of Yinyi and Zha heard that Nanyi had interacted with the Han Dynasty and received many rewards. Most of them were willing to become vassals of the Han Dynasty and requested that they be given officials so that they could be treated the same as Nanyi.
The emperor asked about Wing Kou, and Nuojia said: The Yi tribes of Yin, Jia, Ran and Xiao are close to Shu County, and the roads are easy to open. During the Qin Dynasty, they were opened and set up as counties and counties, but they were abandoned after the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
Now if it is opened again and counties are set up, it will be better than Nanyi.
The emperor thought it was right, so he worshiped Xiangru as Zhonglang General and sent envoys to Xiyi with integrity.
The deputy envoys were Wang Ranyu, Hu Chongguo, and Lu Yue, driving four chariots. They planned to rely on the officials and property of Ba and Shu counties to win over and bribe the southwestern barbarians.
When they arrived at Shu County, the prefect of Shu County and his officials came to greet him on the outskirts. The county magistrate personally led the way with bows and arrows on his back. The people of Shu County were proud of this.
So Zhuo Wangsun and the elders of Linyin all became Xiangru's disciples through their marriage relationships, and offered beef and wine to please Xiangru.
Zhuo Wangsun sighed deeply, thinking that it was too late for his daughter to marry Sima Changqing, so he distributed generous property to his daughter equally with his son.
Sima Changqing sent people to pacify the southwestern barbarians, and the princes of Yin, Zha, Ran, Qo and Siyu all asked to submit to the Han Dynasty. So the old passes were demolished, and the new passes were expanded outwards, reaching Keshui and Ruoshui in the west and the border of Yangge in the south. Lingshan Road was opened and a bridge was built on Sunshui River to connect Gongkou and Zhao.
The emperor was very happy when he returned the report.
When Xiangru was sent as an envoy, most of the senior people in Shu County said that opening up the southwestern barbarians was of no use, and some ministers also thought so.
Xiangru wanted to admonish the emperor, but he remembered that he had already made suggestions and did not dare to deviate from the preface, so he wrote an article and used the form of a conversation with the elders of Shu County to question the other party and use it to satirize the emperor. He also announced his decree to let the people know the emperor's mind.
His article said:
In the seventy-eight years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the benevolence and virtues have been flourishing for six generations. They are mighty and majestic, and their benevolence is profound and wide, benefiting all living beings and filling China and foreign countries.
So he sent envoys to march westward, and the barbarians retreated along the current. Wherever the king's wind covered them, everything collapsed with the wind.
So Ran Yi came to court, Ji Yi obeyed, pacified the capital of Jiao, and the capital of Pingsuo, occupied Siyu, captured Baopu, and drove back and forth with horses and horses to report to the court and drive to the capital of Shu.
Twenty-seven people, including elderly and high-ranking officials in the local area, solemnly went to pay homage to the envoy.
After greetings, we went to Xiju: I heard that the emperor's principle in dealing with the Yi and Di was to contain them and prevent them from severing relations.
Now we have tired the soldiers in the three counties and opened the road to Yelang. It has been three years since the success was achieved. The soldiers are tired and tired, and the people's supplies cannot be satisfied. Now we are opening the road to Xiyi. The people are exhausted, and I am afraid that we will not be able to complete this task. It is also a burden to the envoy. I am worried about you privately.
Moreover, Yin, Zha, and Xijia are juxtaposed with the Central Plains. They have experienced so many years that I can’t remember them clearly.
Since ancient times, emperors, despite their benevolence and virtue, could not be recruited, and although they were powerful, they could not be conquered. I am afraid that this was impossible because the road was difficult, dangerous and far away!
Nowadays, the property of the people who are divided into households is divided to make the barbarians rich, and the common people who the emperor relies on are exhausted and useless land is opened up. We are short-sighted and do not know whether what we are saying is right or wrong?
The messenger said: Why do you say this?
If it is like what you said, it means that the people of Ba and Shu do not need to change their original clothing customs similar to those of the Yi and Di.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
然斯事体大，固非观者之所覯也。
余之行急，其详不可得闻已。
请为大夫粗陈其略：
盖世必有非常之人，然后有非常之事；有非常之事，然后有非常之功。
非常者，固常人之所异也。
故曰非常之元，黎民惧焉；及臻厥成，天下晏如也。
昔者，洪水沸出，泛滥衍溢，民人升降移徙，崎岖而不安。
夏后氏戚之，乃堙洪原，决江疏河，洒沈澹灾，东归之于海，而天下永宁。
当斯之勤，岂惟民哉？
心烦于虑，而身亲其劳，躬傶骿胝无胈，肤不生毛，故休烈显乎无穷，声称浃乎于兹。
且夫贤君之践位也，岂特委琐握龊，拘文牵俗，循诵习传，当世取说云尔哉！
必将崇论谹议，创业垂统，为万世规。
故驰骛乎兼容并包，而勤思乎参天贰地。
且《诗》不云乎： 普天之下，莫非王土；率土之滨，莫非王臣。
是以六合之内，八方之外，浸淫衍溢，怀生之物有不浸润于泽者，贤君耻之。
今封疆之内，冠带之伦，咸获嘉祉，靡有阙遗矣。
而夷狄殊俗之国，辽绝异党之域，舟车不通，人迹罕至，政教未加，流风犹微，内之则犯义侵礼于边境，外之则邪行横作，放杀其上，君臣易位，尊卑失序，父兄不辜，幼孤为奴虏，系累号泣。
内乡而怨，曰： 盖闻中国有至仁焉，德洋恩普，物磨不得其所，今独曷为遗己！
举踵思慕，若枯旱之望雨，盭夫为之垂涕，况乎上圣，又乌能已？
故北出师以讨强胡，南驰使以诮劲越。
translation: 
I never like hearing this. However, this matter is so important that it cannot be understood by onlookers.
My schedule is urgent and I don't have a chance to explain it to you.
Allow me to give you gentlemen a rough outline of the situation:
In the world, only when there are extraordinary talents can there be extraordinary careers; only when there are extraordinary careers can there be extraordinary achievements.
It's so unusual that ordinary people would think it was strange after seeing it.
Therefore, when something unusual begins to appear, the people are afraid; when it succeeds, the world is at peace.
In the past, floods surged and overflowed. People moved around in search of high places and avoided low places, and the ground was rugged, making it difficult to live in peace.
Xia Yu was worried about this, so he blocked the floods, dredged the rivers, and dispersed the deep water to provide relief. From then on, the water flowed to the east and returned to the sea, and the world was forever peaceful.
At this time of strenuous effort, is it only the people who are doing the hard work?
Xia Yu was tired of thinking and participated in the work himself. Calluses appeared on his hands and feet, no muscles could be seen on his legs, and no hair could grow on his skin. Therefore, the beautiful deeds are manifested throughout the ages, and the praises are passed down to this day.
When a wise monarch fulfills his position, can it be that he is just trivial and narrow-minded, sticks to words, involves popular customs, follows ancient legends and records, pleases the current world, and follows what others say?
There will be lofty and grand discussions that can create a foundation and pass it on to future generations, and establish laws for future generations.
Therefore, it can run around and accommodate all things, and be diligent in thinking and juxtaposed with the heaven and earth.
Besides, it is said in the Book of Songs: There is no place in the whole world that is not the king’s territory; there is no place in the four seas that is not the king’s subject.
Therefore, within the heaven and the earth, and beyond the eight directions, there is more than enough moisture. If any living thing is not moistened, it is a matter of shame for a wise monarch.
Now within the borders, all officials and officials are happy and there is no shortage of help.
The Yi and Di are areas with different customs, far away and isolated, a place where rebels are exiled. There is no access to vehicles and boats, and there are few people. Politics and education have not yet been implemented, and the Yimei customs inherited from the previous generations have not yet been revealed. If they adopt it, they will violate Li Yi on the border. If they abandon it, they will become barbaric and rampant, killing their monarchs wantonly, reversing the status of monarchs and ministers, and the hierarchy? During the Kunlun Rebellion, fathers and brothers were killed without charge, orphans were turned into slaves, and people who were caught, robbed, and imprisoned cried and cried.
He complained inwardly towards the Central Plains and said: I heard that the Central Plains has the most beautiful benevolent government. There are many virtues and benefits, and there is no inappropriate place for people. Why have you abandoned me today!
Standing on tiptoes to think about it, like withered and dry grass and trees longing for rain, even the fierce and violent people will shed tears for it, not to mention the current emperor's sage, how can he stop enlightening Yi Di?
Therefore, troops were sent to the north to attack the powerful Xiongnu, and rushing envoys were sent to the south to question the powerful South Vietnam.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
四面风德，二方之君鳞集仰流，愿得受号者以亿计。
故乃关沫、若，徼牂牁，镂灵山，梁孙原，创道德之涂，垂仁义之统，将博恩广施，远抚长驾，使疏逖不闭，昒爽暗昧得耀乎光明，以偃甲兵于此，而息讨伐于彼。
遐迩一体，中外禔福，不亦康乎？
夫拯民于沈溺，奉至尊之休德，反衰世之陵夷，继周氏之绝业，天子之急务也。
百姓虽劳，又恶可以已哉？
且夫王者固未有不始于忧勤，而终于佚乐者也。
然则受命之符合在于此。
方将增太山之封，加梁父之事，鸣和鸾，扬乐颁，上咸五，下登三。
观者未睹指，听者未闻音，犹焦朋已翔乎寥廓，而罗者犹视乎薮泽，悲夫！
于是诸大夫茫然丧其所怀来，失厥所以进，喟然并称曰： 允哉汉德，此鄙人之所愿闻也。
百姓虽劳，请以身先之。
敞罔靡徙，迁延而辞避。
其后人有上书言相如使时受金，失官。
居岁余，复召为郎。
相如口吃而善著书。
常有消渴病。
与卓氏婚，饶于财。
故其仕宦，未尝肯与公卿国家之事，常称疾闲居，不慕官爵。
尝从上至长杨猎。
是时天子方好自击熊豕，驰逐野兽，相如因上疏谏。
其辞曰：
臣闻物有同类而殊能者，故力称乌获，捷言庆忌，勇其贲、育。
臣之愚，窃以为人诚有之，兽亦宜然。
translation: 
Envoys were sent in all directions to proclaim benevolence, and the princes of the Western Yi and Southwestern Yi regions were like fish gathering in the upper reaches of the river. Hundreds of millions of them hoped to receive titles.
Therefore, the Nianshui and Ruoshui are used as pass, Panggu is used as the border, the road to Nangshan is dredged, a bridge is built at the source of Sun River, a path of morality is opened, and the tradition of benevolence and righteousness is spread. It will extend favor widely, appease and control distant places, so that the alienated are not closed, and light shines in the dark, so as to calm the war here and stop the conquest there.
Isn't it also happiness to be united near and far, and to be healthy at home and abroad?
It is the emperor's top priority to save the people from dire straits, respect the emperor's virtues, reverse the decline of the last days, and inherit the cause of the founding monarch of the Zhou Dynasty.
Although the people are working hard, how can they stop?
Moreover, the career of an emperor originally started with sorrow and ended with happiness.
If this is the case, then all the signs of destiny are here.
The title of Mount Tai will be increased, the fear of Liang's father will be added, the luan bells and harps on the carriage will jingle, the sound of music and praise will be loud, and the top will be as tall as the five emperors, and the bottom will be higher than the three kings.
The viewer does not see the fingers, and the listener does not hear the sound, as if the Jiaoming bird has soared in the vast sky, while Zhang Gang's bird-catcher is still watching the lake. How sad!
So the officials were at a loss and lost the expectations they had when they came and the opinions they wanted to state when they came to see you. They sighed and praised together: "It is true that the kindness of the Han Dynasty is exactly what we want to hear."
Although the people are tired, please let us lead by example and walk in front of the people.
Feeling disappointed, he moved back, and after a while he said goodbye and left.
After that, someone wrote a letter to accuse Xiangru of accepting money from others when he was on a mission, and he was dismissed from his official position.
More than a year later, he was summoned to serve as Lang Guan again.
Xiangru stutters but is good at writing articles.
Often suffer from diabetes.
Marrying the Zhuo family, she has abundant property.
Therefore, when he held an official position, he was never willing to participate in the affairs of the public and the country. He excused himself to stay at home due to illness and did not envy his official title.
I once followed the emperor to Changyang Palace for hunting.
At this time, the emperor liked to personally kill bears and wild boars, drive horses to chase wild beasts, and give advice and advice.
Shuwen wrote:
I have heard that some people are of the same type but have different abilities, so when it comes to strength, they are in vain, when it comes to agility, they are jealous, and when it comes to bravery, they are compared to Meng Ben and Xia Yu.
I am ignorant and secretly believe that this is indeed the case for humans, and it should be the same for beasts as well.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
今陛下好陵阻险，射猛兽，卒然遇逸材之兽，骇不存之地，犯属车之清尘，舆不及还辕，人不暇施巧，虽有乌获、逢蒙之技不能用，枯木朽株尽为难矣。
是胡越起于毂下，而羌夷接轸也，岂不殆哉！
虽万全而无患，然本非天子之所宜近也。
且夫清道而后行，中路而驰，犹时有衔橛之变。
况乎涉丰草，骋丘虚，前有利兽之乐，而内无存变之意，其为害也不亦难矣！
夫轻万乘之重不以为安，乐出万有一危之涂以为娱，臣窃为陛下不取。
盖明者远见于未萌，而知者避危于无形，祸固多藏于隐微而发于人之所忽者也。
故鄙谚曰： 家累千金，坐不垂堂。
此言虽小，可以谕大。
臣愿陛下留意幸察。
上善之。
还过宜春宫，相如奏赋以哀二世行失。
其辞曰：
登陂陁之长阪兮，坌入曾宫之嵯峨。临曲江之隑州兮，望南山之参差。
岩岩深山之谾々兮，通谷豁乎谷今谺。
汨淢靸以永逝兮，注平皋之广衍。
观众树之蓊薆兮，览竹林之榛榛。
东驰土山兮，北揭石濑。
弭节容与兮，历吊二世。
持身不谨兮，亡国失势；信谗不寤兮，宗庙灭绝。
乌乎！
操行之不得，墓芜秽而不修兮，魂亡归而不食。
相如拜为孝文园令。
上既美子虚之事，相如见上好仙，因曰： 上林之事未足美也，尚有靡者。
臣尝为《大人赋》，未就，请具而奏之。
相如以为列仙之儒居山泽间，形容甚臞，此非帝王之仙意也，乃遂奏《大人赋》。
其辞曰：
宅弥万里兮，曾不足以少留。
悲世俗之迫隘兮，朅轻举而远游。
translation: 
Nowadays, Your Majesty likes to climb dangerous places and shoot wild beasts. Suddenly, you encounter a particularly powerful beast, which frightens your horse in an unexpected place and offends your auxiliary carriage to clear the road. The carriage has no time to turn the shaft, and the guards have no chance to display their skills. Even if they have the skills of Wuhuo and Fengmeng, if their talents are not used, even the dead trees can become a disaster.
Just like the Hu people and Yue people raised troops in the capital, and the Qiang and Yi people were also very close, wouldn't it be dangerous?
Even if it is absolutely safe and no disaster occurs, this is not a place that the emperor should approach.
Moreover, when pedestrians are warned, then move forward, interrupt the road, and drive on, there are often incidents where the iron bars and crossbars carried by the horses are broken.
What's more, when passing through lush grass or running on barren hills, with the joy of hunting wild beasts in front of you and no preparation for unexpected events in your heart, disaster may easily happen!
I don’t think your Majesty should do this if you look down upon the position of an emperor and do not take pleasure in peace, but take pleasure in traveling on a road that may be in danger.
Perhaps a perspicacious person can foresee things that have not yet sprouted, and a wise person can avoid disasters without any traces. Most disasters are hidden in places that are not easy to detect, and occur when people are careless.
Therefore, as the proverb goes: If you accumulate thousands of gold at home, you will not sit under the hanging tiles on the eaves.
Although the idiom talks about small things, it can be used to describe big things.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention to these words.
The emperor thought it was well written.
When he returned, he passed by Yichun Palace and presented a gift to Xiangru to express his condolences for Qin II's mistakes.
His words read:
Climb the long and slightly sloping hillside and enter the palace. From the winding dock next to the Qujiang River, you can see the jagged layers of Nanshan Mountain in the distance.
The towering mountains are so long and the valleys leading to them are so deep that they are unreachable.
The water flows swiftly and quickly, and flows into a vast area of ​​water.
Spectators are surrounded by dense trees and can see patches of bamboo growing into forests.
It runs through earthy mountains in the east, and crosses shallow currents and rocks in the north.
If you want to stop, stop and pay tribute to the second generation.
Being careless in doing things will lead to the destruction of the country and loss of power; listening to slander and not awakening, the ancestral temple will be exterminated.
Alas!
If someone enters the house without moral integrity, the tomb will be dirty and no one will repair it, the soul will have no place to go and no one will worship it.
Xiangru was appointed as the Order of Xiaowen Garden.
After the emperor praised Zixu's deeds, Xiangru saw that the emperor loved the immortal way, so he said: "The deeds in Shanglin are not beautiful enough, there are also gorgeous ones."
I once wrote "Adult Fu", but it has not yet been completed. Please allow me to complete it and dedicate it to you.
Xiangru thought that the legendary immortals and sorcerers lived among the mountains and swamps, and were very thin in appearance. This did not look like the emperor's immortality, so he wrote "Adult Fu".
His poem reads:
There is an emperor in Zhongzhou who lives thousands of miles away but cannot stay there.
Sad that the world is so narrow, leave it and travel far away.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乘绛幡之素蜺兮，载云气而上浮。
建格泽之修竿兮，总光耀之采旄。
垂旬始以为幓兮，曳慧星而为髾。
掉指桥以偃■兮，又猗抳以招摇。
揽搀抢以为旌兮，靡屈虹而为绸。
红杳眇以玄湣兮，猋风涌而云浮。
纠蓼叫奡踏以■路兮，薎蒙踊跃腾而狂趭。
莅飒芔歙焱至电过兮，焕然雾除，霍然云消。
邪绝少阳而登太阴兮，与真人乎相求。
互折窈窕以右转兮，横厉飞泉以正东。
悉征灵圉而选之兮，部署众神于摇光。
使五帝先导兮，反大壹而从陵阳。
左玄冥而右黔雷兮，前长离而后矞皇。
厮征伯侨而役羡门兮，诏岐伯使尚方。
祝融警而跸御兮，清气氛而后行。
屯余车而万乘兮，綷云盖而树华旗。
使句芒其将行兮，吾欲往乎南娭。
历唐尧于崇山兮，过虞舜于九疑。纷湛湛差差错兮，杂遝胶輵以方驰。
骚扰冲苁其纷拏兮，滂濞泱轧丽以林离。
攒罗列聚丛以笼茸兮，衍曼流烂痑以陆离。
径入雷室之砰磷郁律兮，洞出鬼谷之堀礨崴魁。遍览八纮而观四海兮，朅度九江越五河。
经营炎火而浮弱水兮，杭绝浮渚涉流沙。
奄息葱极泛滥水娭兮，使灵娲鼓琴而舞冯夷。
时若暧暧将混浊兮，召屏翳诛风伯，刑雨师。
西望昆仑之轧沕荒忽兮，直径驰乎三危。
排阊阖而入帝宫兮，载玉女而与之归。
登阆风而遥集兮，亢鸟腾而壹止。
低徊阴山翔以纡曲兮，吾乃今日睹西王母。
暠然白首戴胜而穴处兮，亦幸有三足乌为之使。
translation: 
The car drove onto the white neon with the red flag fluttering, carrying the clouds floating upward.
Build the beam of light from the Zexing as a long flagpole, and tie the rays of light together as the flag of the flag.
The tassels of the star banner of the first ten days of the month are hung, and the comet with its light tail is used as the feathers decorated on the banner.
The flag swayed with the wind and tugged at the staff, swaying affectionately and swaggering.
Bring the Heaven's Powder and Heaven's Spear Star and let them be used as banners, wrapped in colorful silk made of curved rainbows.
The red mist is thin and misty, and the wind and clouds float in response to the movement of the air.
Driving a flying dragon, riding an elephant chariot, walking in a meandering way, driving a red dragon and a green scorpion in a meandering procession. He raised his head and bent his neck to show his pride, and he moved up and down and rolled his arms. Sometimes he pauses and stands still, sometimes his head is raised and his dignity is released.
Advancing and retreating, pacing and turning, looking left and right, running and leaning on each other. They were entangled, clamored, trampled, and for some reason they jumped like a wild dragon. During the exhalation, fire and lightning passed by, and the fog suddenly disappeared.
Cross Shuji diagonally and climb to the North Pole to invite the immortals.
They exchanged greetings with each other and turned west, then crossed the Feiquan and headed due east.
All fairies were collected and selected, and the gods were arranged to shine in the Beidou.
Let the Five Emperors take the lead, reject Taiyi and use the attendant Immortal Lingyang.
On the left is Xuan Ming, on the right is Qian Lei, in front is Chang Li and behind is Nan Huang.
The servant is the Immortal Zheng Boqiao, who has a high family, and orders Qi Bo to manage the prescription.
Let Zhu Rong's guards clear the way and clear away the evil spirits before proceeding.
Gather my ten thousand chariots and set up a gorgeous flag with colorful clouds.
Let Jumang serve as a general. I want to go to the south to play.
Passing through Chongshan where Tang Yao lived, and passing through Jiuyi where Yu Shun lived, the roads were crisscrossed, and the cars and cars were driving in confusion.
Rampages and tramples are coming one after another, and the boundless water is flowing. They are gathered together, arranged and gathered, scattered and scattered, and the lights are strange and strange.
Go straight into the Leiyuan to listen to the rumbling thunder, and walk out of the Ghost Valley to see the steep mountains.
See the eight wastelands and the four seas, cross the Jiujiang River and cross the five rivers.
After passing Huoyan Mountain, I drifted on the weak water, wading on the sandbank in the river and saw desert quicksand.
The river from the green ridge is for me to play in, and Nuwa plays the harp and dances with the river god.
At this time, it seemed dark and turbid, so he summoned the God of Thunder to punish Feng Bo and Rain Master.
Looking to the west, the Kunlun Mountains are full of chaos and evil, and they are flying straight towards the three dangers.
Pushing through the Tianmen Gate, he entered the imperial palace and returned with the jade girl in his arms.
Climb the Minfeng Mountain and call from afar, flying like a bird and stopping neatly.
Circling and twisting in the low altitude of Yinshan Mountain, I only now saw the Queen Mother of the West.
Haoran has white hair and a jade hairpin and lives in a cave. Fortunately, there is a three-legged blue bird to serve her.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
必长生若此而不死兮，虽济万世不足以喜。
回车朅来兮，绝道不周，会食幽郁。
呼吸沆瀣兮餐朝霞，咀噍芝英兮叽琼华。
僸祲寻而高纵兮，纷鸿溶而上厉。
贯列缺之倒景兮，涉丰隆之滂濞。
骋游道而修降兮，骛遗雾而远逝。
迫区中之隘陕兮，舒节出乎北垠。遗屯骑于玄阙兮，轶先驱于寒门。下峥嵘而无地兮，上嵺廓而无天。
视眩泯而亡见兮，听敞怳而亡闻。
乘虚亡而上遐兮，超无友而独存。
相如既奏《大人赋》，天子大说，飘飘有陵云气游天地之间意。
相如既病免，家居茂陵。
天子曰： 司马相如病甚，可往从悉取其书，若后之矣。
使所忠往，而相如已死，家无遗书。
问其妻，对曰： 长卿未尝有书也。
时时著书，人又取去。
长卿未死时，为一卷书，曰有使来求书，奏之。
其遗札书言封禅事，所忠奏焉，天子异之。
其辞曰：伊上古之初肇，自颢穹生民。
历选列辟，以迄乎秦。
率迩者踵武，听逖者风声。
纷轮威蕤，堙灭而不称者，不可胜数也。
继《昭》、《夏》，崇号谥，略可道者七十有二君。
罔若淑而不昌，畴逆失而能存？
轩辕之前，遐哉邈乎，其详不可得闻已。
五三《六经》载籍之传，维见可观也。《书》曰： 元首明哉！
股肱良哉！
因斯以谈，君莫盛于尧，臣莫贤于后稷。
后稷创业于唐，公刘发迹于西戎，文王改制，爰周郅隆，大行越成，而后陵迟衰微，千载亡声，岂不善始善终哉！
然无异端，慎所由于前，谨遗教于后耳。
故轨迹夷易，易遵也；湛恩庞洪，易丰也；宪度著明，易则也；垂统理顺，易继也。
translation: 
This must be the case in order to live forever. Even if you can live through eternity, it is not a joy.
Return to the car and leave, cross Buzhou Mountain and eat in Youdu.
Inhale the dew and eat the morning glow, and taste the Zhiying and Qionghua.
They raised their heads upward and gradually rose up, leaping and flying rapidly.
Encounter the light and shadow of high-altitude lightning, and survive the heavy rain of the rain master.
The guide car of the galloping tour bus falls from the sky, leaving behind the fog and disappearing in the distance.
Due to the narrow confines of my home, I slowly headed north to see the vast expanse. I left my chariots and horses in Xuan'er and my ancestors in Duliudan. When I looked down, I couldn't see the earth, and when I looked up, I couldn't see the sky.
The eyes are dizzy and cannot see, and the hearing is blurred and cannot hear anything.
Riding on nothingness and wandering far away, transcending existence and nothingness and existing alone.
After Xiangru presented "Adult Fu", the emperor was very happy, and he had the spirit of flying clouds, as if he had the artistic conception of traveling between heaven and earth.
After Xiangru was dismissed from his post due to illness, he lived in Maoling's home.
The emperor said: Sima Xiangru is seriously ill. You can send someone to fetch all the books he has written. You are already lagging behind others.
When the dispatcher went there, Xiangru was already dead and there was no book left at home.
Asked his wife, she replied: "It turns out that Chang Qing never had a book."
He often wrote books, and they were often taken away from him.
When Chang Qing was alive, he wrote a book and presented it to the court when an envoy came to look for it.
He sent the letters he left behind to talk about Feng Fang's affairs, and presented the faithful notes to the emperor. The emperor thought the book was strange.
His book said: In ancient times, at the beginning of the creation of the world, people were born.
Count the monarchs of all dynasties until Qin.
Follow the relics of modern times and listen to the sounds of ancient times.
There are countless people who are mixed and confused, buried and not praised by the world.
It can be said that there are seventy-two monarchs who carry forward the uprightness, advocate the beauty of the title, and enshrine Zen in Mount Tai.
No one can govern well but fail to prosper, and who can go against the grain and fail to survive for a long time?
Before Xuanyuan, time was extremely far away, things were unclear, and the details were no longer known.
The movements of the Five Emperors and Three Kings can be known from the records and legends in the "Six Classics". "Shangshu" says: The monarch is wise!
Well done, minister!
Based on this, no monarch can be more beautiful than Yao of the Tang Dynasty, and no minister can be more virtuous than Hou Ji.
Hou Ji established his achievements during the reign of Yao in Tang Dynasty, Gong Liu succeeded in Xirong, and King Wen reformed the system. By the time Zhou Dynasty was extremely prosperous and achieved peace, his achievements were completed. Although it declined weakly in the future, there was no evil voice for thousands of years. Isn't it a good beginning and a good end!
However, there is no other reason than to be cautious at the beginning and carefully uphold the instructions at the end.
Therefore, the rules are simple and easy to follow; the benevolence is deep and broad, it is easy to be rich; the laws are clear and easy to follow; the inheritance is smooth and easy to inherit.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是以业隆于繦保而崇冠乎二后。
揆厥所元，终都攸卒，未有殊尤绝迹可考于今者也。
然犹蹑梁甫，登太山，建显号，施尊名。
大汉之德，逢涌原泉，沕谲曼羡，旁魄四塞，云布雾散，上畅九垓，下溯八埏。
怀生之类，沾濡浸润，协气横流，武节焱逝，尔陿游原，迥阔泳末，首恶郁没，闇昧昭晰，昆虫闿怪，回首面内。
然后囿驺虞之珍群，徼麋鹿之怪兽，导一茎六穗于疱，牺双觡共抵之兽，获周馀放龟于岐，招翠黄乘龙于沼。
鬼神接灵圉，宾于闲馆。奇物谲诡，俶倘穷变。
钦哉，符瑞臻兹，犹以为薄，不敢道封禅。
盖周跃鱼陨杭，休之以燎。微夫斯之为符也，以登介丘，不亦恧乎！
进攘之道，何其爽与？
于是大司马进曰： 陛下仁育群生，义征不譓，诸夏乐贡，百蛮执贽，德牟往初，功无与二，休烈液洽，符瑞众变，斯应绍至，不特创见。
意者太山、梁父设坛场望幸，盖号以况荣，上帝垂恩储祉，将以庆成，陛下嗛让而弗发也。
挈三神之欢，缺王道之仪，群臣恧焉。
或谓且天为质闇，示珍符固不可辞；若然辞之，是泰山靡记而梁父罔几也。
亦各并时而荣，咸济厥世而屈，说者尚何称于后，而云七十二君哉？
夫修德以锡符，奉符以行事，不为进越也。
故圣王弗替，而修礼地祇，谒款天神，勒功中岳，以章至尊，舒盛德，发号荣，受厚福，以浸黎民。
皇皇哉斯事，天下之壮观，王者之卒业，不可贬也。
愿陛下全之。
而后因杂缙绅先生之略术，使获曜日月之末光绝炎，以展采错事。
犹兼正列其义，祓饰厥文，作《春秋》一艺。将袭旧六为七，摅之无穷，俾万世得激清流，扬微波，蜚英声，腾茂实。
前圣之所以永保鸿名而常为称首者用此。
宜命掌故悉奏其仪而览焉。
于是天子沛然改容，曰： 俞乎，朕其试哉！
乃迁思回虑，总公卿之议，询封禅之事，诗大泽之博，广符瑞之富。
遂作颂曰：
translation: 
Therefore, the king's business prospered when he became king, but his achievements were made during the years of King Wen and King Wu.
Measuring the beginning and competing for the end, there are no particularly outstanding and unusual deeds that can be compared with the Han Dynasty.
However, he also climbed Mount Tai and Mount Liangfu, established a noble title, and gained a lofty reputation.
The kindness of the Han Dynasty flows like a source, reaching all over the land, covering all directions, spreading like clouds and mist, reaching up to the nine heavens and flowing down in all directions.
All living things will be blessed, and harmony will spread everywhere. The mighty flames surged, passing through the roots in the near and narrow places, and reaching the branches and leaves in the far and wide places. The culprits were all annihilated. The people of Yi and Di saw the light, and all kinds of animals were joyful and joyful, and turned back to face the Central Plains.
Then he raised a herd of precious crepe fish, intercepted the rare elk monster, selected a six-ear rice stem from the kitchen to offer sacrifices, brought a beast with two horns as a sacrifice, obtained the tortoises that were released in the Zhou Dynasty beside Qishan Mountain, and summoned the divine horse that the Yellow Emperor rode when he ascended to immortality in the swamp.
The most virtuous people are connected with the gods. Immortals live in leisure taverns. Wonderful objects change unpredictably. Excellent talents can study the changes deeply.
I admire you so much. Even now, Fu Guangxiangrui still thinks he has little virtue and dare not mention Feng Chan.
During the Zhou Dynasty, a jumping fish fell onto the boat. King Wu roasted it and offered it to the heavens as a talisman. It was so small, but if he used the white fish as auspiciousness to climb Mount Tai, wouldn't it be shameful?
The Zhou Dynasty could not grant the title of Zen and then go to the Shan Dynasty, but the Han Dynasty could grant the title of Zen without the fear of granting the title of Shan. What a huge difference between fighting and letting!
So the Great Sima spoke to the emperor and said: Your Majesty cares for the people of the world with kindness, relies on morality to fight against unfavorable conditions, China is willing to contribute, and barbarians pay tribute to the court. The virtues are the same as before, and the merits are unparalleled. The grand and beautiful achievements are harmonious. The auspicious signs are ever-changing, and they come one after another according to the period. This is not the first time.
It seems that the altars in Taishan and Liangfu Mountains are looking forward to the emperor's visit, and want to add a title to compare with the glory of the previous generation. God has favored me and accumulated blessings, and they want to celebrate the success. Your Majesty is humble and courteous and refuses to hold a ceremony.
Cutting off the joy of the three gods of heaven, earth and mountain, causing the loss of royal etiquette and justice, and making all the officials feel ashamed!
Some people say that, besides, God's will has indeed hinted that the rare talisman cannot be rejected; if it is rejected, Mount Tai will have no chance to set up a sign and Mount Liang will have no hope of enjoying the sacrifice.
Moreover, if the emperors from ancient times have been prosperous with the times, and the throne has ended and the sacrifices have been discontinued, what else can the narrator say to future generations, and how can he say that there are seventy-two monarchs who passed Mount Tai in Zen?
If one has perfected his virtue and is bestowed upon Fu Rui, and if he respects Fu Rui and performs Zen rituals, it is not regarded as being too arrogant and arrogant.
Therefore, a sage monarch does not abolish his feudal title, but respects the earth gods, sincerely addresses the gods of heaven, and inscribes his merits on stones in Zhongyue. This shows his supreme status, develops his prosperous virtues, reveals his title of glory, and receives abundant blessings to infiltrate the people.
This is the kind of thing Mosaic is doing! The majestic scene of the world and the grand cause of the emperor cannot be diminished!
I hope your majesty will do it more completely.
Then the opinions of the Confucian scholars were gathered, so that they could be illuminated by the last flames of the sun and the moon, so as to promote their official positions and carry out their careers.
Therefore, it is necessary to organize the time and place, personnel, affairs, and the meaning of Zen, and revise and polish the text. As a new chapter of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the original Six Classics will be added to the Seven Classics.
This is the reason why the former sage kings can always maintain their good reputation and are often praised.
You should let the anecdote present the etiquette of the Zen ceremony to you.
So the emperor changed his expression in emotion and said: Yes, let me try it!
Then he changed his mind, changed his mind, summarized the discussions of the ministers, consulted on the important matters of Feng Pang, wrote poems to praise the vastness of Daze, and increased the wealth of Fu Rui.
So he sung:


Chunk 8: 
original: 
自我天覆，云之油油。
甘露时雨，厥壤可游。
滋液渗漉，何生不育！
嘉谷六穗，我穑曷蓄？
匪唯雨之，又润泽之；匪唯偏我，泛布护之；万物熙熙，怀而慕之。
名山显位，望君之来。
君兮君兮，侯不迈哉！
股股之兽，乐我君圃；白质黑章，其仪可喜；旼々穆穆，君子之态。
盖闻其声，今视其来。
厥涂靡从，天瑞之征。
慈尔于舜，虞氏以兴。
濯濯之麟，游彼灵畤。
孟冬十月，君徂郊祀。
驰我君舆，帝用享祉。
三代之前，盖未尝有。
宛宛黄龙，兴德而升；采色玄耀，炳炳辉煌。
正阳显见，觉寤黎烝。
于传载之，云受命所乘。
厥之有章，不必谆谆。
依类托寓，谕以封峦。
披艺观之，天人之际已交，上下相发允答。
圣王之事，兢兢翼翼。
故曰于兴必虑衰，安必思危。
是以汤、武至尊严，不失肃祗，舜在假典，顾省厥遗：此之谓也。
相如既卒五岁，上始祭后土。
八年而遂礼中岳，封于太山，至梁甫，禅肃然。
相如它所著，若《遗平陵侯书》、《与五公子相难》、《草木书篇》，不采，采其尤著公卿者云。
赞曰：司马迁称：《春秋》推见至隐，《易本》隐以之显，《大雅》言王公大人，而德逮黎庶，《小雅》讥小己之得失，其流及上。
所言虽殊，其合德一也。
相如虽多虚辞滥说，然要其归引之于节俭，此亦《诗》之风谏何异？
扬雄以为靡丽之赋，劝百而讽一，犹骋郑、卫之声，曲终而奏雅，不已戏乎！
translation: 
The sky is covered with self, and the clouds are oily.
The dew rains intermittently, and the soil is swimmable.
No matter how wet the fluid is, why is it infertile?
The six ears of Jiagu, my harvest?
The bandit only rains on it and moistens it; the bandit only favors me and spreads to protect it; all things are bustling, cherishing and admiring it.
A famous mountain shows its position, and I hope you will come.
You are here, you are here, you are not here!
The beast with crotch and crotch is happy in my garden; the white body and the black seal are pleasing to the eye; the croaking and muttering are the attitude of a gentleman.
Gai heard its sound and now sees it coming.
Jue Tu Mi Cong, Tian Rui's sign.
Zi Er was in favor of Shun, and Lu was suppressed in favor of prosperity.
The Lin of Zhuo Zhuo, the wandering spirit stands.
In the tenth month of Mengdong, you worship in the suburbs.
Chi my king and father, the emperor enjoys the benefits.
Before the third cut, there was no cover.
Wanwan Huanglong rises with virtue; its color is mysterious and brilliant.
Zhengyang is visible, and Li Yan is aware of it.
According to the legend, Yun was ordered to ride on it.
There are rules to follow, no need to be careful.
According to the analogy, I entrusted the residence and ordered to seal the mountains.
Looking at the "Six Classics", we can see that the boundaries between heaven and humanity have been connected, and heaven and the people express harmony with each other.
The career of the Holy King is conscientious and cautious.
Therefore, when you are prosperous, you must think about decline, and when you are safe, you must think about danger.
Therefore, King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou occupied the supreme position without losing the courtesy; Yu and Shun observed the stars and observed the gains and losses of political affairs.
It's about making things happen. Sima Xiangru had been dead for five years, and the emperor had just offered sacrifices to the earth god.
In the eighth year, he first worshiped the god of Zhongyue, then sealed Mount Tai, went to Mount Liangfu, and offered sacrifices to Mount Suran.
Xiangru's other works, such as "A Letter to the Marquis of Pingling", "A Difficulty with the Five Young Masters", and "Caomu Shupian" are not included. Only his articles that are particularly well-known among the ministers are included.
Praise: Taishi Gong said: "Spring and Autumn" uses subtle words to deduce the righteousness of human affairs, "Book of Changes" uses natural subtleties to explain human affairs, "Daya" talks about princes and great men, and their virtue extends to the common people, "Xiaoya" criticizes political affairs based on one's own gains and losses, and its rumors reach princes and princes.
Therefore, although the appearance of words is different, they are all consistent in meeting moral standards.
Although Xiangru contains many fictional words and exaggerations, its main point boils down to one point: it advocates frugality. How is this different from the satire in the Book of Songs?
Yang Xiong thought that his gorgeous words encouraged extravagance and the words admonishing frugality accounted for only one percent, as if he were racing among the lustful voices of Zheng and Wei, and only played elegant music at the end of the song. Isn't this also a frivolous play!


