Chunk 0: 
original: 
张释之字季，南阳堵阳人也。
与兄仲同居，以赀为骑郎，事文帝，十年不得调，亡所知名。
释之曰： 久宦减仲之产，不遂。
欲免归。
中郎将爰盎知其贤，惜其去，乃请徙释之补谒者。
释之既朝毕，因前言便宜事。
文帝曰： 卑之，毋甚高论，令今可行也。
于是释之言秦、汉之间事，秦所以失，汉所以兴者。
文帝称善，拜释之为谒者仆射。
从行，上登虎圈，问上林尉禽兽簿，十余问，尉左右视，尽不能对。
虎圈啬夫从旁代尉对上所问禽兽簿甚悉，欲以观其能口对向应亡穷者。
文帝曰： 吏不当如此邪？
尉亡赖！
诏释之拜啬夫为上林令。
释之前曰： 陛下以绛侯周勃何如人也？
上曰： 上者。
又复问： 东阳侯张相如何如人也？
上复曰： 长者。
释之曰： 夫绛侯、东阳侯称为长者，此两人言事曾不能出口，岂效此啬夫喋喋利口捷给哉！
且秦以任刀笔之吏，争以亟疾苛察相高，其敝徒文具，亡恻隐之实。
translation: 
Zhang Shizhi, courtesy name Ji, was born in Duyang, Nanyang.
Lives with his brother Zhang Zhong. He used his family wealth to buy a job as a knight and served Emperor Wen of Han. He had not been promoted for many years and had no reputation.
Zhang Shizhi said: I feel uneasy about being a Langguan for a long time and depleting my brother's family property.
I want to automatically request to be dismissed and go home.
The lieutenant-general Yuan Ang knew that he was talented and could not bear to see him leave, so he asked Zhang Shizhi to be transferred to fill the vacant post.
After Zhang Shizhi's audience was over, he took advantage of this opportunity to step forward and state things that would benefit the country and the people.
Emperor Wen said: Be realistic. Don't talk too much about ancient things, but talk about what can be implemented in the present.
So Zhang Shizhi talked about the affairs between Qin and Mo, and talked about the reasons for the demise of Qin Dynasty and the rise of Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wen praised Zhang Shizhi and promoted him to the rank of Servant.
Zhang Shizhi traveled with the emperor and visited the tiger enclosure. The emperor asked Shang Lin about the registration of various animal books and asked more than a dozen questions. Shang Lin looked around but couldn't answer.
The stingy man who was in charge of the tiger enclosure answered the emperor's questions on behalf of Lieutenant Shang Lin. He was very detailed and wanted to show that his answers were as fluent as the responses to the dance.
Emperor Wen said: Shouldn't officials be like this?
You can't go to Lieutenant Lin!
So Zhang Shizhi was ordered to declare the stingy husband as the Shanglin Order.
Zhang Shishang stepped forward and said: What kind of person does Your Majesty think Jianghou Zhou Bo is?
The Emperor replied: A loyal elder.
Asked again: What kind of person is Zhang Xiangru, the Marquis of Cambodia?
The emperor still replied: A loyal elder.
Zhang Shizhi said: Jianghou and Jianyanghou are known as loyal elders, but these two people couldn't even speak when they talked about things. Should people be allowed to imitate this stingy man’s eloquent talk?
Moreover, because the Qin Dynasty appointed those scribes who were good at writing, the scribes competed with each other on the speed of doing things and the harshness of supervision. However, the disadvantage of doing so was that they just followed the rules and there was no mercy at all.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以故不闻其过，陵夷至于二世，天下土崩。
今陛下以啬夫口辩而超迁之，臣恐天下随风靡，争口辩，亡其实。
且下之化上，疾于景，举错不可不察也。 文帝曰： 善。
乃止不拜啬夫。
就车，召释之骖乘，徐行，行问释之秦之敝。
具以质言。至宫，上拜释之为公车令。
顷之，太子与梁王共车入朝，不下司马门，于是释之追止太子、梁王毋入殿门。
遂劾不下公门不敬，奏之。
薄太后闻之，文帝免冠谢曰： 教儿子不谨。
薄太后使使承诏赦太子、梁王，然后得入。
文帝繇是奇释之，拜为中大夫。
顷之，至中郎将。
从行至霸陵，上居外临厕。
translation: 
Because of this, the emperor could not hear his own faults, and he declined day by day. By the second generation, the world fell apart.
Now that Your Majesty has promoted a stingy man to a higher level because of his eloquence and eloquence, I am worried that people in the world will follow the trend and rush to exaggerate instead of being practical.
Moreover, the following imitates the response from above, which is faster than a shadow and echoes. Your Majesty, you can do whatever you want, so you must be cautious! Emperor Wen agreed and said: OK!
So no more promotion of stingy men.
The emperor got into the carriage and summoned Zhang Shizhi to accompany him. As the car moved forward slowly, the emperor asked about the shortcomings of the Qin Dynasty, and Zhang Shizhi answered truthfully.
When they arrived at the palace, the emperor granted Zhang Shizhi the official carriage order.
Soon, the prince and the King of Liang entered the court together in a car. They passed by Sima Gate without getting off the car. At that time, Zhang Shizhi chased after him and stopped the prince and the King of Liang from entering the palace gate.
He then accused them of being disrespectful by not getting out of the car at Simamen and reported them to the police.
When Empress Dowager Bo learned about this, Emperor Wen took off his hat and said, "I blame my lax teaching of my son."
Empress Dowager Bo then sent an envoy to pardon the prince and King Liang, and then they were able to enter the palace.
Emperor Wen believed that Zhang Shizhi was different from this incident and appointed him as a senior official.
Soon, Zhang Shi's official position was Zhonglang General.
He followed the emperor to Ba Ling. The emperor sat on the north side of his mausoleum and looked far away.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时慎夫人从，上指视慎夫人新丰道，曰： 此走邯郸道也。
使慎夫人鼓瑟，上自倚瑟而歌，意凄怆悲怀，顾谓群臣曰： 嗟乎！以北山石为椁，用纻絮斫陈漆其间，岂可动哉！
左右皆曰： 善。 释之前曰： 使其中有可欲，虽锢南山犹有隙；使其中亡可欲，虽亡石椁，又何戚焉？
文帝称善。
其后，拜释之为廷尉。
顷之，上行出中渭桥，有一人从桥下走，乘舆马惊。
于是使骑捕之，属廷尉。
释之治问。
曰： 县人来，闻跸，匿桥下。
久，以为行过，既出，见车骑，即走耳。
释之奏当： 此人犯跸，当罚金。
上怒曰： 此人亲惊吾马，马赖和柔，令它马，固不败伤我乎？
translation: 
At this time, Mrs. Shen followed. The emperor pointed to the road to Xinfeng County and said to Mrs. Shen: This is the road to Handan!
The emperor asked Mrs. Shen to play the harp, and he sang to the melody of the harp. His mood was desolate and sad, and he turned around and said to the ministers: Alas, if you use the good stones from Beishan to make the outer coffin, chop and bundle Susu and cotton wool into the gaps in the stone coffin, and then glue it together with paint, how can it still be opened? The waiters all said: OK.
Zhang Shi stepped forward and said: If it is wrapped with something that can arouse greed, even if Nanshan is closed as a coffin, there will still be gaps; if it is wrapped with something that can arouse greed, even if there is no stone coffin, why worry?
Emperor Wen praised him for being right.
After that, Zhang Shizhi was promoted to Tingwei.
Soon, the emperor was on his way to menstruation? At the Wei Bridge, a man ran out from under the bridge, frightening the horse that the emperor was driving.
So he ordered the knight to arrest the man and hand him over to the court captain for punishment.
Zhang Shizhi interrogated the man.
The man replied: I am a countryman from Chang'an County. When I came here, I heard about the martial law on Qingdao and hurriedly hid under the bridge.
After a long time, I thought the emperor had passed by, so I came out from under the bridge. When I saw the emperor's carriage, horses and honor guard in front of me, I immediately turned around and ran away.
Zhang Shizhi reported the punishment he deserved based on this, saying: This person violated the martial law order of the Qing Dynasty and should be fined.
Emperor Wen was furious and said: "This man frightened my horse. Fortunately, my horse has a gentle temper. If it had been another horse, wouldn't it have injured me long ago?"


Chunk 3: 
original: 
而廷尉乃当之罚金！
释之曰： 法者，天子所与天下公共也。
今法如是，更重之，是法不信于民也。
且方其时，上使使诛之则已。
今已下廷尉，廷尉，天下之平也，壹倾，天下用法皆为之轻重，民安所错其手足？
唯陛下察之。
上良久曰： 廷尉当是也。
其后人有盗高庙座前玉环，得，文帝怒，下廷尉治。
案盗宗庙服御物者为奏，当弃市。
上大怒曰： 人亡道，乃盗先帝器！
吾属廷尉者，欲致之族，而君以法奏之，非吾所以共承宗庙意也。
释之免冠顿首谢曰： 法如是足也。
且罪等，然以逆顺为基。
今盗宗庙器而族之，有如万分一，假令愚民取长陵一抔土，陛下且何以加其法乎？
translation: 
But Tingwei only imposed a fine!
Zhang Shizhi said: The law is obeyed by the emperor and the people of the world.
Nowadays, the law stipulates in this way but the punishment must be increased. In this way, the law cannot win the trust of the people.
Besides, at that time, the emperor could just have him killed on the spot.
Now that it has been handed over to Tingwei, and Tingwei is the symbol of fairness in the world, once there is any deviation, the world will use the law arbitrarily, lightly or heavily. Where can the people put their hands and feet?
I hope your Majesty will understand clearly.
After a long time, the emperor said: Wei Ting was the one who did the right thing.
After that, someone stole the jade ring in front of the shrine in Gaozu Temple and was arrested. Emperor Wen was furious and handed it over to Tingwei for punishment.
Zhang Shizhi petitioned to be sentenced to be beheaded in accordance with the provisions of the law for stealing the ancestral temple's clothing and utensils.
The emperor was furious and said: "That man did something wrong and actually stole the artifacts from the late emperor's ancestral temple!"
The reason why I handed him over to your Tingwei for trial was because I wanted him to exterminate his clan, but you petitioned him in accordance with the ordinary legal provisions. This was not my original intention to respect my ancestors.
Zhang Shizhi took off his hat and kowtowed and explained: According to the law, this sentence has reached the limit.
Moreover, beheading and genocide are both capital crimes, but they are based on the degree of disobedience.
Today, if someone steals the artifacts from the ancestral temple, his entire clan will be killed. Suppose a fool steals a handful of earth from Changling, how will your Majesty punish him?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
文帝与太后言之，乃许廷尉当。
是时，中尉条侯周亚夫与梁相山都侯王恬启见释之持议平，乃结为亲友。
张廷尉繇此天下称之。
文帝崩，景帝立，释之恐，称疾。
欲免去，惧大诛至；欲见，则未知何如。
用王生计，卒见谢，景帝不过也。
王生者，善为黄、老言，处士。
尝召居廷中，公卿尽会立。
王生老人，曰 吾袜解 ，顾谓释之： 为我结袜！
释之跪而结之，既已，人或让王生： 独奈何廷辱张廷尉如此？
王生曰： 吾老且贱，自度终亡益于张廷尉。
廷尉方天下名臣，吾故聊使结袜，欲以重之。
诸公闻之，贤王生而重释之。
释之事景帝岁余，为淮南相，犹尚以前过也。
年老病卒。
其子挚，字长公，官至大夫，免。
以不能取容当世，故终身不仕。
translation: 
Later, Emperor Wen and Empress Dowager Bo discussed the matter and approved Tingwei's verdict.
At that time, Lieutenant Tiaohou Zhou Yafu and Liang Xiangshan Duhou Wang Tianqi saw that Zhang Shizhi was fair in his comments, so they became close friends with him.
Zhang Shizhi was praised by people all over the world.
Later, Emperor Wen died and Emperor Jing came to the throne. Zhang Shizhi was afraid when he remembered that he had offended Emperor Jing, so he asked for leave due to illness.
He wanted to resign and leave, but he was afraid that he would be immediately punished with a bigger and more severe punishment; he wanted to go to the palace to apologize in person, but he didn't know which way to go.
Later, he adopted Wang Sheng's strategy and finally went to Emperor Jing to apologize in person.
Emperor Jing did not blame him. Wang Sheng was good at Huang Lao's scholarship and was a hermit.
Once he was summoned to the palace, where all the ministers gathered and stood.
Wang Sheng, an old man, said: My stockings are loose! Looking back, Zhang Tingwei said: Please tie the stockings for me!
Zhang Shizhi knelt on the ground and tied his socks. Later, someone asked Wang Sheng: Why did he insult Zhang Tingwei in public in the court?
Wang Sheng said: I am old and of low status, so I thought that I would not be able to benefit Zhang Tingwei in the end.
Zhang Tingwei is a famous official in the world today. I want to give him some humiliation by asking him to kneel down and tie my stockings, in order to promote him.
After hearing this, all the ministers said that the wise king respected Zhang Tingwei by nature.
Zhang Tingwei served Emperor Jing for more than a year and was demoted to the position of Prince of Huainan, also because he had offended Emperor Jing in the past.
Zhang Shizhi fell ill and died of old age.
His son was named Zhang Zhi, named Changgong. He became a doctor and was dismissed from his post.
Because he was not good at pleasing those in power, he never held an official position until his death.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
冯唐，祖父赵人也。
父徙代。
汉兴徙安陵。
唐以孝著，为郎中署长，事文帝。
帝辇过，问唐曰： 父老何自为郎？
家安在？
具以实言。
文帝曰： 吾居代时，吾尚食监高祛数为我言赵将李齐之贤，战于巨鹿下。
吾每饮食，意未尝不在巨鹿也。
父老知之乎？
唐对曰： 齐尚不如廉颇、李牧之为将也。
上曰： 何已？ 唐曰： 臣大父在赵时，为官帅将，善李牧。臣父故为代相，善李齐，知其为人也。
上既闻廉颇、李牧为人，良说，乃拊髀曰： 嗟乎！吾独不得廉颇、李牧为将，岂忧匈奴哉！
唐曰： 主臣！
陛下虽有廉颇、李牧，不能用也。
上怒，起入禁中。
良久，召唐让曰： 公众辱我，独亡间处乎？
唐谢曰： 鄙人不知忌讳。
translation: 
Feng Tang, his grandfather was a native of China.
His father immigrated to Dai County.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, he moved to Anling.
Feng Tang was famous for his filial piety and was elected as the director of doctors to serve Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
When Emperor Wen passed by the doctor's office in his car, he asked Feng Tang: Why is the old man still working as a doctor?
Where do you live?
Feng Tangdu answered truthfully.
Emperor Wen said: When I was living in Daidi, my chief food supervisor Gao Qu praised the general Li Qi for his talents many times and told me the story of the fierce battle at Julu City.
Now every time I have a meal, I have to think of the scene of Li Qi's fierce battle with the giant deer.
Does the old man know Li Qi?
Feng Tang replied: Li Qi is not as good as Lian Po and Li Mu as a general. The emperor asked: On what basis?
Feng Tang said: When my grandfather was in the State of Zhao, his official position was as a commander-in-chief and he was a close friend of Li Mu. My father used to be the king's prime minister. He had a close relationship with Zhao General Li Qi and knew him well.
After listening to Feng Tang's description of Lian Po and Li Mu, the emperor was very happy, so he slapped his thigh and said: Alas, it's a pity that I can't get people like Lian Po and Li Mu to be my generals. Otherwise, would I still worry about the Huns?
Feng Tang said: Terrified and ashamed!
Even if His Majesty gets Lian Po and Li Mu, it is impossible for him to appoint them.
The emperor was furious and got up and returned to the palace.
After a long time, he summoned Feng Tang and complained: Why did you insult me ​​in front of everyone? Isn't there a secluded place?
Feng Tang apologized and said: I am a vulgar person who does not understand taboos.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
当是时，匈奴新大入朝那，杀北地都尉卬。
上以胡寇为意，乃卒复问唐曰： 公何以言吾不能用颇、牧也？
唐对曰， 臣闻上古王者遣将也，跪而推毂，曰： 闑以内寡人制之，闑以外将军制之；军功爵赏，皆决于外，归而奏之。 此非空言也。
臣大父言李牧之为赵将居边，军市之租皆自用飨士，赏赐决于外，不从中复也。
委任而责成功，故李牧乃得尽其知能，选车千三百乘，彀骑万三千匹，百金之士十万，是以北逐单于，破东胡，灭澹林，西抑强秦，南支韩、魏。
当是时，赵几伯。
后会赵王迁立，其母倡也，用郭开谗，而诛李牧，令颜聚代之。
是以为秦所灭。
今臣窃闻魏尚为云中守，军市租尽以给士卒，出私养钱，五日壹杀牛，以飨宾客军吏舍人，是以匈奴远避，不近云中之塞。
虏尝一入，尚帅车骑击之，所杀甚众。
夫士卒尽家人子，起田中从军，安知尺籍伍符？
终日力战，斩首捕虏，上功莫府，一言不相应，文吏以法绳之。
其赏不行，吏奉法必用。
愚以为陛下法太明，赏太轻，罚太重。
且云中守尚坐上功首虏差六级，陛下下之吏，削其爵，罚作之。
繇此言之，陛下虽得李牧，不能用也。
臣诚愚，触忌讳，死罪！
translation: 
At that time, the Huns had recently invaded Chaona and killed Sun Yin, the captain of Beidi County.
The emperor was worried about the Huns' invasion, so he finally asked Feng Tang: "How do you know that I cannot appoint Lian Po and Li Mu?"
Feng Tang replied: I heard that in ancient times, kings sent generals to go on expeditions. Before leaving, they knelt down and pushed the cart, saying: I will decide the affairs within the country, and the general will decide the matters outside the country. Military merits, titles and rewards are all decided by the general, and he will report to the court when he returns. This is not empty talk.
My grandfather said that when Li Mu led troops to guard the border with Tongguo, he used all the taxes collected from the military trading market to reward the soldiers. The rewards were decided by the generals and the court did not interfere.
Entrusting him with important tasks and ordering him to succeed, Li Mu could use his wisdom and talent to select 1,300 qualified chariots, 13,000 cavalry who were good at shooting, and 100,000 elite soldiers. Relying on this force, he could drive out the Xiongnu Chanyu in the north, defeat Shu Hu, and destroy Danlin; suppress the powerful Qin in the west; and resist Han and Wei in the south.
At this time, Tangguo almost became the overlord.
After that, Wang Qian happened to come to the throne. His mother was originally a singing artist. When Wang Qian came to the throne, he believed the slander of his favored minister Guo Kai and finally had Li Mu killed and replaced him with Yan Ju.
Therefore, the army was defeated and the soldiers fled and were destroyed by Qin.
Now I heard privately that Wei Shang was appointed as the prefect of Yunzhong. He used all the taxes from the military market to reward the soldiers. He also used his personal salary to kill cattle every five days and entertain guests, military officials and close subordinate officials. Therefore, the Xiongnu stayed far away and did not dare to approach the Yunzhong Fortress.
The Huns once invaded, and Wei Shang led his troops to fight back, killing many enemy troops.
Those soldiers were all sons of ordinary people. They came from Tianwen to join the army. How could they know military laws and regulations such as "Chi Ji" and "Wu Fu".
They fought hard all day long, beheaded enemies, and captured prisoners. But when they reported their merits to the Yamen, as long as they did not comply with one sentence, the judges would invoke the law to punish them.
Their rewards are not fulfilled but the laws of the justices are enforced.
I think His Majesty's laws are too fastidious, the rewards are too light, and the punishments are too severe.
Moreover, Wei Shang, the governor of Yunzhong County, was only six heads short of the number of enemy soldiers he reported killed. Your Majesty handed him over to the judicial officer for punishment, deprived him of his title and sentenced him to one year in prison.
From this point of view, even if His Majesty gets Li Mu, it is impossible to reuse him.
I was indeed stupid and violated a taboo, a capital crime!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
文帝说。
是日，令唐持节赦魏尚，复以为云中守，而拜唐为车骑都尉，主中尉及郡国车士。
十年，景帝立，以唐为楚相。
武帝即位，求贤良，举唐。
唐时年九十余，不能为官，乃以子遂为郎。
遂字王孙，亦奇士。
魏尚，槐里人也。
汲黯字长孺，濮阳人也。
其行有宠于古之卫君也。
至黯十世，世为卿大夫。
以父任，孝景时为太子洗马，以严见惮。
武帝即位，黯为谒者。
东粤相攻，上使黯往视之。
至吴而还，报曰： 粤人相攻，固其俗，不足以辱天子使者。
河内失火，烧千余家，上使黯往视之。
还报曰： 家人失火，屋比延烧，不足忧。
臣过河内，河内贫人伤水旱万余家，或父子相食，臣谨以便宜，持节发河内仓粟以振贫民。
translation: 
Emperor Wen was happy after hearing this.
On the same day, he ordered Feng Tang to send an envoy to Chijie to pardon Wei Shang, and appointed him as the governor of Yunzhong County again. He also appointed Feng Tang as the chariot and cavalry captain, in charge of the lieutenants and chariot warriors of various counties and countries.
Ten years later, Emperor Jing of Han came to the throne and asked Feng Tang to be the prime minister of Chu.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he issued an imperial edict to recommend virtuous people and recommended Feng Tang.
Feng Tang was over ninety years old at the time and could no longer hold an official position, so he made his son Feng Sui the official.
Feng Sui, also known as Wang Sun, was also an outstanding talent.
Wei Shang was from Huaili.
Ji An, whose courtesy name is Changru, was born in Puyang.
His ancestors were favored by Nao in ancient times.
It is the tenth generation to reach the end of the chapter, and he has been appointed as a minister for generations.
Ji An benefited from his father's position and was the prince Xima during the reign of Emperor Xiaojing. He was respected by others because of his seriousness in handling affairs.
When Emperor Wu ascended the throne of God, he paid a visit to An.
The Dongyue tribes were fighting among themselves, and the emperor sent Ji An to inspect.
He did not go to Shuyue, but only came back to the border of Kuaiji County, and reported: "The Shuyue people attack each other. This is their custom, and it is not worth bothering the emperor's envoy."
A fire broke out in Hanoi County, burning more than a thousand people. The emperor sent Ji An to inspect.
He came back and reported: A civilian home accidentally started a fire. Since the houses are adjacent to each other, the fire spreads and burns. It is not worth worrying about.
I passed through Hanoi County. More than 10,000 poor people in Hanoi County were affected by floods and droughts. Some even had fathers eating their sons or sons eating their father's corpse. I just acted according to the opportunity, and based on the talisman I held, I distributed the rice stored in the warehouse of the Hanoi magistrate to help the local poor.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
请归节，伏矫制罚。
上贤而释之，迁为荥阳令。
黯耻为令，称疾归田里。
上闻，乃召为中大夫。
以数切谏，不得久留内，迁为东海太守。
黯学黄、老言，治官民，好清静，择丞史任之，责大指而已，不细苛。
黯多病，卧阁内不出。
岁余，东海大治，称之。
上闻，召为主爵都尉，列于九卿。
治务在无为而已，引大体，不拘文法。
为人性倨，少礼，面折，不能容人之过。
合己者善待之，不合者弗能忍见，士亦以此不附焉。
然好游侠，任气节，行修洁。
其谏，犯主之颜色。
translation: 
I request that I be allowed to return the talisman and be punished under the pretense of the emperor's order.
The emperor thought he was virtuous and exempted him from punishment, and appointed him as the magistrate of Rongyang County.
Ji An felt it was a shame to be the county magistrate, so he asked for leave due to illness and returned to his hometown.
When the emperor heard about it, he summoned him and appointed him as Zhongdafu.
Because he had repeatedly expressed his strong advice to the emperor, he could not stay in the palace as an official for a long time, so he was transferred to the prefect of Shuhai County.
Ji An studied the opinions of Huangdi and Laozi and managed the affairs of the government and the people. He likes to be quiet and inactive, so he chooses county magistrates and capable book historians and entrusts them with all affairs in the county.
When he governs county affairs, he only controls and supervises major matters and does not pay attention to trivial details.
Ji An often fell ill and would lie in his dormitory wrapped up without going out. After more than a year, Donghai County was greatly stabilized, and everyone praised him.
The emperor heard about it and summoned him to serve as the Lord Commander and the ninth minister.
He strives to be quiet and inactive in his work, pays attention to major political principles, and does not stick to legal dogma.
Ji An has an arrogant personality and lacks etiquette. He accuses others face to face and cannot tolerate other people's faults.
Those who get along with oneself should be treated well; those who do not get along with oneself cannot be received patiently, and the scholars will not rely on them for this reason.
But he likes to learn from knight-errants, trusts people with dignity and integrity, and conducts himself noble and pure at home.
He likes to directly advise the monarch to correct his mistakes, and has offended the monarch's majesty many times.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
常慕傅伯、爰盎之为人。
善灌夫、郑当时及宗正刘弃疾。
亦以数直谏，不得久居位。
是时，太后弟武安侯田蚡为丞相，中二千石拜谒，蚡弗为礼。
黯见蚡，未尝拜，揖之。
上方招文学儒者，上曰吾欲云云，默对曰： 陛下内多欲而外施仁义，奈何欲效唐、虞之治乎！
上怒，变色而罢朝。
公卿皆为黯惧。
上退，谓人曰： 甚矣，汲黯之戆心！
群臣或数黯，黯曰： 天子置公卿辅弼之臣，宁令从谀承意，陷主于不谊乎？
且已在其位，纵爱身，奈辱朝廷何！
黯多病，病且满三月，上常赐告者数，终不愈。
最后，严助为请告。
上曰： 汲黯何如人也？
曰： 使黯任职居官，亡以愈人，然至其辅少主守成，虽自谓贲、育弗能夺也。 上曰： 然。
古有社稷之臣，至如汲黯，近之矣！
translation: 
I often envy Uncle Fu and Yuan Ang for their conduct.
Befriend Guan Fu, Zheng Shi, and Zongzheng Liu Qiji.
Because of his many outspoken suggestions, he could not stay in the position of Jiu Qing in Beijing for a long time.
When Ji An was an official in the capital, the Empress Dowager's younger brother Wu'anhou Tian Wei was the prime minister. Officials with two thousand shi of gold paid homage to him, but Tian Wei was arrogant and refused to respond.
However, Ji An never bowed to Tian Fen when he met him, and often bowed his hands.
The emperor is recruiting Confucian scholars who are good at literature and believe in Confucianism. The emperor said what I want. Ji An replied: "Your Majesty has many desires in his heart, but he pretends to be benevolent and righteous outside. Can he imitate the politics of Tang Yao and Yu Shun?"
The emperor became angry, changed his face and announced the suspension of the court meeting.
The ministers were all worried about Guan Yan.
The emperor retired from the court and said to his ministers: "This is too much. Ji An is so stupid!"
Someone among the ministers blamed Ji An, and Ji An said: The emperor appoints ministers such as ministers and other assistants, can they be allowed to flatter, cater to the will, and make the monarch fall into an unrighteous situation?
Besides, since I am already a minister, although I care about my body, what if it harms the interests of the country?
Ji An was ill and had been ill for nearly three months. The emperor often gave him vacation time, but he still did not recover.
When he got sick for the last time, Yan Zhu asked for leave on his behalf.
The emperor said: What kind of person is Ji An?
Yan Zhu said: Let Ji An act as an official, there is nothing to surpass others. But when it comes to assisting his young master, he is able to guard his established career calmly and firmly. Even if someone thinks they have the courage of Meng Ben and Xia Yu, they cannot force him to give up. The emperor said: Yes.
In ancient times, there were so-called ministers of the country who shared hardships with the country. As for Ji An, he was similar to them.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
大将军青侍中，上踞厕视之。
丞相弘宴见，上或时不冠。
至如见黯，不冠不见也。
上尝坐武帐，黯前奏事，上不冠，望见黯，避帷中，使人可其奏。
其见敬礼如此。
张汤以更定律令为廷尉，黯质责汤于上前，曰： 公为正卿，上不能褒先帝之功业，下不能化天下之邪心，安国富民，使囹圄空虚，何空取高皇帝约束纷更之为？
而公以此无种矣！
黯时与汤论议，汤辩常在文深小苛，黯愤发，骂曰： 天下谓刀笔吏不可为公卿，果然。
必汤也，令天下重足而立，仄目而视矣！
是时，汉方征匈奴，招怀四夷。
黯务少事，间常言与胡和亲，毋起兵。
translation: 
General Wei Qing was waiting for him, and the emperor sat on the couch to receive him.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong usually came to see him for business reasons, but the emperor sometimes did not wear his hat.
As for Ji An's visit, the emperor would not meet him without wearing a hat.
The emperor was once sitting in the military tent. Ji An stepped forward to report official business. The emperor was not wearing a hat. When he saw Ji An from a distance, he immediately hid in the tent and sent his attendants to spread the news and approved what he had said.
He was respected and respected by the emperor.
Zhang Tang became a court official for changing the criminal law. Ji An repeatedly questioned and accused Zhang Tang in front of the emperor, saying: You are a high minister. The superiors cannot carry forward the achievements of the late emperors, and the subordinates cannot resolve the evil intentions of the people in the world, stabilize the country, enrich the people, reduce the crime rate and make the prisons empty. What are you doing by changing the laws of the Emperor Gao?
You will also be cutting off future generations!
Ji An often debated disputes with Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang spoke eloquently and often sought depth in articles and details in details. Ji An got angry and scolded him, saying: "People in the world say that officials with swords and pens cannot be high officials. It is true."
If you follow what Zhang Tang said, people in the world will stand on their feet and look squinting!
At this time, the Han Dynasty was conquering the Xiongnu and recruiting and appeasing the peoples from all directions.
Ji An tried to save trouble. When the emperor had free time, he often proposed marriage with the Xiongnu instead of raising troops to conquer.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
上方乡儒术，尊公孙弘，及事益多，吏民巧。
上分别文法，汤等数奏决谳以幸。
而黯常毁儒，面触弘等徒怀诈饰智以阿人主取容，而刀笔之吏专深文巧诋，陷人于罔，以自为功。
上愈益贵弘、汤，弘、汤心疾黯，虽上亦不说也，欲诛之以事。
弘为丞相，乃言上曰： 右内史界部中多贵人宗室，难治，非素重臣弗能任，请徙黯。
为右内史数岁，官事不废。
大将军青既益尊，姊为皇后，然黯与亢礼。
或说黯曰： 自天子欲令群臣下大将军，大将军尊贵，诚重，君不可以不拜。
黯曰： 夫以大将军有揖客，反不重耶？
大将军闻，愈贤黯，数请问以朝廷所疑，遇黯加于平日。
淮南王谋反，惮黯，曰： 黯好直谏，守节死义；至说公孙弘等，如发蒙耳。
上既数征匈奴有功，黯言益不用。
始黯列九卿矣，而公孙弘、张汤为小吏。
及弘、汤稍贵，与黯同位，黯又非毁弘、汤。
已而弘至丞相，封侯，汤御史大夫，黯时丞史皆与同列，或尊用过之。
黯褊心，不能无少望，见上，言曰： 陛下用群臣如积薪耳，后来者居上。
黯罢，上曰： 人果不可以无学，观汲黯之言，日益甚矣。
translation: 
The emperor is yearning for Confucian scholarship and respects Gongsun Hong. When things get more complicated, the lower-level officials resort to tricks and the people use tricks to escape.
The emperor analyzed the regulations and added additional laws. Zhang Tang and others repeatedly reported the cases decided by the Tingwei to the emperor for ruling, thereby gaining his favor.
However, Ji An often slandered Confucianism and accused Gongsun Hong and others face to face of blindly resorting to deceit and cleverness in order to cater to the emperor's intentions and win the favor of the emperor. The swordsman and penman specially analyzed the legal provisions one-sidedly and cleverly slandered them, framed people in the law, and thought they had merit for this.
The emperor valued Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang more. Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang deeply hated Ji An. Even the emperor disliked him and wanted to kill him for an excuse.
When Gongsun Hong became the prime minister, he made a speech to the emperor and said: The area under the jurisdiction of You Nei Shi is home to many high-ranking officials and royal families, and it is difficult to govern. It is not that ministers who are usually well-known and hold important positions in the court are not qualified. Please transfer Ji An to be You Nei Shi.
Ji An had been the internal history of You for several years, and he had not slackened his official duties.
The general Wei Qing was already more noble, and his sister Wei Zifu became the queen, but Ji An treated Wei Qing as an equal.
Someone advised Ji An and said: In the past, the emperor wanted all ministers to be humble to the general. Now that the general is respected and valued by the emperor, his status is even more noble. You have to kneel down and worship.
Ji An said: "If the general has guests who bow his hands as equals, isn't that respecting him?"
When the general heard this, he thought Ji An was more virtuous. He asked him many times for advice on difficult matters related to the country and the court, and treated Ji An more favorably than usual.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, conspired to rebel. He was afraid of Ji An and said: This man likes to speak bluntly to persuade, stick to his integrity, and will sacrifice his life for justice. As for persuading Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, it is as easy as teaching children to do things.
The emperor had already conquered the Xiongnu many times and achieved success, so Ji An's words were even less adopted.
When Ji An was in Jiuqing, Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang were the lower-level officials.
When Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang gradually became noble and equal to Ji An, Ji An again accused and slandered Gongsun Hong and Zhang Tang.
Soon, Gongsun Hong was promoted to prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Pingju; Zhang Tang was promoted to the imperial censor; the assistants such as the prime minister and Shi who were under Ji An's jurisdiction were all promoted to the same status as Ji An, and some were promoted to more important positions than him.
Ji An was narrow-minded and could not help but complain a little. When he went to see the emperor, he said: Your Majesty uses his ministers like stacks of firewood, and those who come later take precedence.
After Ji An left, the emperor said: "A person cannot be uneducated. If you think about Ji An's words, you will be very stupid every day."


Chunk 12: 
original: 
居无何，匈奴浑邪王帅众来降，汉发车二万乘。
县官亡钱，从民贳马。
民或匿马，马不具。
上怒，欲斩长安令。
黯曰： 长安令亡罪，独斩臣黯，民乃肯出马。
且匈奴畔其主而降汉，徐以县次传之，何至令天下骚动，罢中国，甘心夷狄之人乎！
上默然。
后浑邪王至，贾人与市者，坐当死五百余人。
黯入，请间，见高门，曰： 夫匈奴攻当路塞，绝和亲，中国举兵诛之，死伤不可胜计，而费以巨万百数。
臣愚以为陛下得胡人，皆以为奴婢，赐从军死者家；卤获，因与之，以谢天下，塞百姓之心。
今纵不能，浑邪帅数万之众来，虚府库赏赐，发良民侍养，若奉骄子。
愚民安知市买长安中而文吏绳以为阑出财物如边关乎？
陛下纵不能得匈奴之赢以谢天下，又以微文杀无知者五百余人，臣窃为陛下弗取也。
translation: 
Soon after, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu led his troops to surrender, and the Han Dynasty conscripted 20,000 vehicles to pick them up.
The public treasury had no money, so it had to borrow horses from the people.
Some of the people hid their horses, so they couldn't get enough of them.
The emperor was angry and wanted to kill the magistrate of Chang'an.
Ji An said: The magistrate of Chang'an County is not guilty. Only if he kills me, Ji An, will the people be willing to sacrifice their horses.
Moreover, these Huns betrayed their Shanyu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. If the Han Dynasty slowly provided them with post carriages from the counties along the way to transport them, how could it disturb the whole country and make its own people tired and sleepy to serve these Huns?
The emperor was silent.
When King Hunxie came, more than 500 merchants who did business with the Xiongnu surrenderers were sentenced to death for their crimes.
Ji An entered the palace and asked to use his free time to avoid the crowd. He met the emperor in the Gaomen Hall of the Weiyang Palace and said: In the past, the Huns attacked the border fortresses on the road to our country, severing the friendly relations with relatives. We, the Han Dynasty, raised troops to attack, and the number of casualties was too many to count, and the money spent was counted in tens of billions.
I was foolish enough to think that when I acquired the Huns, I would give them as slaves and maids to the families of those who died in the war. I would also distribute the property captured after defeating the enemy to these people to comfort the people of the world for their hard work and satisfy the hearts of the people.
Although this cannot be the case now, King Hunxie led tens of thousands of his tribesmen to surrender, but he emptied the national treasury to reward them, and conscripted kind-hearted people to serve them as if they were arrogant.
How did the ignorant people know that when they were asked to buy local supplies in Chang'an, the eloquent legal officials punished them with the crime of smuggling contraband out of the border?
Even though Your Majesty could not use the supplies captured from the Huns to comfort the people of the world, but still used vague and unclear legal provisions to kill more than 500 ignorant people, I think it is not appropriate for Your Majesty to punish him like this.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
上弗许，曰： 吾久不闻汲黯之言，今又复妄发矣。
后数月，黯坐小法，会赦，免官。
于是黯隐于田园者数年。
会更立五铢钱，民多盗铸钱者，楚地尤甚。
上以为淮阳，楚地之郊也，召黯拜为淮阳太守。
黯伏谢不受印绶，诏数强予，然后奉诏。
召上殿，黯泣曰： 臣自以为填沟壑，不复见陛下，不意陛下复收之。
臣常有狗马之病，今病，力不能任郡事。
臣愿为中郎，出入禁闼，补过拾遗，臣之愿也。 上曰： 君薄淮阳邪？
吾今召君矣。
顾淮阳吏民不相得，吾徒得君重，卧而治之。
黯既辞，过大行李息，曰： 黯弃逐居郡，不得与朝廷议矣。
translation: 
The emperor refused to listen and said, "I haven't heard what Ji An said for a long time, and now I'm talking nonsense again."
A few months later, Ji An committed a minor crime, which coincided with the general amnesty, and he was only relieved of his official position.
So Ji An lived in seclusion in the countryside for several years.
After a few years, when the five-baht coin was re-minted, many people among the people minted coins privately, especially in the hometown of Chu State.
The emperor thought that Huaiyang County was the territory of Chu, so he sent his envoy Zhao Ji'an to appoint him as the prefect of Huaiyang County.
Ji An prostrated himself on the ground and refused to accept the seal. The edict was forced on him many times, and then he accepted the edict.
An imperial edict was issued to summon Ji An. Ji An cried to the emperor and said: I thought the corpse would fill the ravine and never see your majesty again. I didn't expect that your majesty would collect it and use it again.
I have often been ill, and now that I am ill, my energy is not sufficient for the work of a county.
It is my wish to be a close scholar like a lieutenant who can enter and leave the palace's small gates and make amends for Your Majesty's mistakes or remind you of oversights. The emperor said: Do you despise Huaiyang County?
I will call you back soon.
It's just that the Huaiyang County officials and the people don't get along well. I just want to take advantage of your reputation and ask you to govern from your side.
Ji An had already bid farewell to the emperor and visited the general Li Xi, saying: I have been abandoned to a foreign county and cannot participate in the discussion of important affairs of the court.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
然御史大夫汤智足以距谏，诈足以饰非，非肯正为天下言，专阿主意。
主意所不欲，因而毁之；主意所欲，因而誉之。
好兴事，舞文法，内怀诈以御主心，外挟贼吏以为重。
公列九卿不早言之何？
公与之俱受其戮矣！
息畏汤，终不敢言。
黯居郡如其故治，淮阳政清。
后张汤败，上闻黯与息言，抵息罪。
令黯以诸侯相秩居淮阳。
居淮阳十岁而卒。
卒后，上以黯故，官其弟仁至九卿，子偃至诸侯相。
黯姊子司马安亦少与黯为太子洗马。
安文深巧善宦，四至九卿，以河南太守卒。
昆弟以安故，同时至二千石十人。
translation: 
But Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, was clever enough to reject criticism from others, and his tricks were able to cover up his mistakes. He was unwilling to speak for the people of the world according to the right way, and only catered to the Lord's wishes.
The Lord slanders what His heart does not desire; He praises what He desires.
He likes to cause trouble, play with laws and regulations, be cunning in the court to cater to the Lord's will, and intimidate cruel and greedy officials outside the court to maintain his dignity.
You are in the rank of Jiuqing, why don't you give advice to the emperor as soon as possible?
Both you and him will be killed.
Li Xi was afraid of Zhang Tang and finally dared not speak.
Ji An still handled the county affairs according to the past governance methods, and the affairs of Huaiyang County were clear and clear.
Later, Zhang Tang was defeated as expected. The emperor heard what Ji An said to Li Xi and sentenced Li Xi.
Ji An was ordered to have the same status and treatment as the prime minister of the princes and kingdoms during his tenure as the governor of Huaiyang.
Ji An passed away ten years later.
After Ji An's death, the emperor made his younger brother Ji Ren the official of Jiuqing because of Ji An, and his son Ji Yan became the prime minister of the vassal kingdoms.
Sima An, the son of Ji An's sister, also followed Ji An as the prince's horse washer when he was young.
Sima An was profound in interpreting legal provisions and was good at being an official. His official position was promoted to Jiuqing four times and he died while serving as the governor of Henan County.
Because of Sima An, ten of my brothers were promoted to the rank of two thousand shi at the same time.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
濮阳段宏始事盖侯信，信任宏，官亦再至九卿。
然卫人仕者皆严惮汲黯，出其下。
郑当时字庄，陈人也。
其先郑君尝事项籍，籍死而属汉。
高祖令诸故项籍臣名籍，郑君独不奉诏。
诏尽拜名籍者为大夫，而逐郑君。
郑君死孝文时。
当时以任侠自喜，脱张羽于厄，声闻梁、楚间。
孝景时，为太子舍人。
每五日洗沐，常置驿马长安诸郊，请谢宾客，夜以继日，至明旦，常恐不遍。
当时好黄、老言，其慕长者，如恐不称。
自见年少官薄，然其知友皆大父行，天下有名之士也。
武帝即位，当时稍迁为鲁中尉，济南太守，江都相，至九卿为右内史。
以武安魏其时议，贬秩为詹事，迁为大司农。
translation: 
Duan Hong from Puyang initially served Gaihou Wang Xin. Wang Xin recommended Duan Hong, and Duan Hong's official position was promoted to Jiuqing twice.
However, the officials in the Wei people all respected Ji An, and their official positions were all inferior to Ji An.
Zheng was born in Chen County with a courtesy name of Zhuang.
His ancestor Zheng Jun once served as Xiang Ji's general. After Xiang Ji's death, he belonged to the Han Dynasty.
Liu Bang, the great ancestor of Mo, ordered all ministers who had passed Xiang Ji to call Xiang Ji by his first name. Only Zheng Jun did not accept Shao's order.
The edict consecrated those who were willing to use Xiang Ji's name as officials and expelled Lord Zheng.
Zheng Jun died during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen.
At that time, Zheng was proud of his chivalrous deeds and rescued Zhang Yu, the general of King Xiao of Liang, from the trouble, and his reputation spread throughout the Liang-Chu region.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, he sacrificed his life for the prince.
During every five-day holiday, stagecoaches are often set up in the suburbs of Chang'an to invite or thank guests, working day and night until dawn, which is often not thoughtful.
Zheng Zhuang liked the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi. He admired the elderly and virtuous people, fearing that they would not be satisfied with them.
Although he was young and held a low official position, the close friends he made were all famous scholars from his grandfather's generation.
Emperor Wu Liu Che ascended the throne, and Zheng Zhuang was successively promoted to lieutenant of Lu State, prefect of Jinan County, prime minister of Jiangdu State, and finally to Jiuqing as the right internal history.
Because of his involvement in the dispute between Wu'an Hou Tianchi and Wei Qihou Dou Ying, he was demoted to Zhan Shi, and later promoted to Da Sinong.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
当时为大吏，戒门下： 客至，亡贵贱亡留门者。
执宾主之礼，以其贵下人。
性廉，又不治产，卬奉赐给诸公。
然其馈遗人，不过具器食。
每朝，候上间说，未尝不言天下长者。
其推毂士及官属丞史，诚有味其言也。常引以为贤于己。
未尝名吏，与官属言，若恐伤之。
闻人之善言，进之上，唯恐后。
山东诸公为此翕然称郑庄。
使视决河，自请治行五日。
上曰： 吾闻郑庄行，千里不赍粮，治行者何也？
然当时以朝，常趋和承意，不敢甚斥臧否。
汉征匈奴，招四夷，天下费多，财用益屈。
当时为大司农，任人宾客僦，入多逋负。
translation: 
Zheng Zhuang, as a high official, warned the gatekeeper: When guests arrive, please come in immediately. No matter whether they are noble or cheap, do not wait at the door.
He performs the courtesy of a host to his guests and treats his guests humbly with his noble status.
Zheng Zhuang has a clean character and does not acquire any private property. He relies on his salary and rewards to provide for his elderly friends.
But the gift he gave to people was just a plate of food.
Every time he goes to court, when the emperor is free, he always makes remarks without praising the wise people in the world.
When recommending scholars, prime ministers, historians and other subordinate officials, he praised them with great enthusiasm and often mentioned that he thought they were more talented than himself.
He never calls his subordinates by their first names, and talks to them as if he is afraid of hurting them.
I heard the kind words spoken by others and recommended them to the emperor, but I was afraid that I would be too slow.
Therefore, all the scholars in Jingshan Yishu praised Zhengzhuang in unison.
Zheng Zhuang was sent to inspect the breach of the Yellow River, and he applied for a five-day leave to repair his luggage.
The emperor said: I heard that Zheng Zhuang traveled thousands of miles without food. Now I am applying for leave to pack my luggage. Why?
However, when Zheng Zhuang was discussing matters in the court, he often echoed and catered to the emperor's wishes and did not dare to clearly state whether his position was right or wrong.
The Han Dynasty conquered the Xiongnu and recruited the Yi tribes from all directions. The country spent a lot of money and became increasingly depleted of financial and material resources.
When Zheng Zhuang was appointed as the chief minister, some of the people he recommended and the guests who were familiar with him were engaged in transportation for the chief minister, and they owed a lot of money.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
司马安为淮阳太守，发其事，当时在此陷罪，赎为庶人。
顷之，守长史。
迁汝南太守，数岁，以官卒。
昆弟以当时故，至二千石者六七人。
当时始与汲黯列为九卿，内行修。
两人中废，宾客益落。
当时死，家亡余财。
先是，下刲翟公为廷尉，宾客亦填门，及废，门外可设爵罗。
后复为廷尉，客欲往，翟公大署其门，曰： 一死一生，乃知交情；一贫一富，乃知交态；一贵一贱，交情乃见。
赞曰：张释之之守法，冯唐之论将，汲黯之正直，郑当时之推士，不如是，亦何以成名哉！
扬子以为孝文帝诎帝尊以信亚夫之军，曷为不能用颇、牧？
彼将有激云尔。
translation: 
Sima An, the governor of Huaiyang County, exposed this incident, and Zheng Zhuang committed a crime. After Nasu atones for his crime, he was demoted to a commoner.
Soon, he temporarily served as the chief historian in the Prime Minister's Mansion.
He was also promoted to the post of prefect of Runan County. He died in office a few years later.
Due to Zheng's status at that time, six or seven of his brothers had an official rank of two thousand shi.
Yinzhuang and Ji'an were originally listed in Jiuqing, so they paid attention to personal moral cultivation.
The two men resigned from office midway, and the guests became even more scattered.
After Zheng died at that time, his family had no property left.
Earlier, Zhai Gong, a native of the lower state, was appointed as a court captain, and the guests were crowded. After he lost his official position, a bird trap could be set up outside the door.
Later, when the official resumed his duties, guests wanted to come, and Zhai Gong wrote in big characters on the door, saying: One life and one death, one can know the depth of friendship; one poor and one rich, one can know the human condition; one noble and one low, one can see the friendship.
Praise says: Zhang Shizhi abides by the law, is an outspoken official who quotes the past and discusses the present, uses generals with trust between kings and ministers, Ji An has an upright temperament, and Zheng recommended wise men at that time. Otherwise, how can he become famous!
Yangzi thought that Emperor Xiaowen put down his noble status as emperor and commended Zhou Yafu's army. Why couldn't he use Lian Po and Li Mu?
Feng Tang wanted to deal with Wei Shang and used the method of provoking generals against Emperor Wen.


