Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦武何进窦武字游平，扶风平陵人，安丰戴侯融之玄孙也。
父奉，定襄太守。
武少以经行著称，常教授于大泽中，不交时事，名显关西。
延熹八年，长女选入掖庭，桓帝以为贵人，拜武郎中。
其冬，贵人立为皇后，武迁越骑校尉，封槐里侯，五千户。
明年冬，拜城门校尉。
在位多辟名士，清身疾恶，礼赂不通，妻子衣食裁充足而已。
是时，羌蛮寇难，岁俭民饥，武得两宫赏赐，悉散与太学诸生，及载肴粮于路，丐施贫民。
兄子绍，为虎贲中郎将，性疏简奢侈。
武每数切厉相戒，犹不觉悟，乃上书求退绍位，又自责不能训导，当先受罪。
由是绍更遵节，大小莫敢违犯。
时，国政多失，内官专宠，李膺、杜密等为党事考逮。
永康元年，上疏谏曰：臣闻明主不讳讥刺之言，以探幽暗之实；忠臣不恤谏争之患，以暢万端之事。
是以君臣并熙，名奋百世。
臣幸得遭盛明之世，逢文、武之化，岂敢怀禄逃罪，不竭其诚！
陛下初从籓国，爰登圣祚，天下逸豫，谓当中兴。
自即位以来，未闻善政。
梁、孙、寇、邓虽或诛灭，而常侍黄门续为祸虐，欺罔陛下，竞行谲诈，自造制度，妄爵非人，朝政日衰，奸臣日强，伏寻西京放恣王氏，佞臣执政，终丧天下。
今不虑前事之失，复循覆车之轨，臣恐二世之难，必将复及，赵高之变，不朝则夕。
translation: 
◆Dou Wu's biography, Dou Wu's courtesy name is You Ping, a native of Pingling County, Fufeng County, and the great-great-grandson of Dai Hourong of Anfeng County.
His father, Dou Feng, was the prefect of Dingxiang.
When Dou Wu was young, he was famous for his virtues in Confucian classics. He once taught Osawa Zhong. He was not involved in current affairs, and his reputation was prominent in the Kansai area.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, the eldest daughter was elected to the palace. Emperor Huan appointed her as a nobleman and appointed Dou Wu as the doctor.
In the winter of this year, the noble lady was made queen, Dou Wu was promoted to Yueqi Xiaowei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Huaili, with 5,000 households.
In the winter of the second year, he was awarded the title of captain of the city gate.
During his tenure, he recruited famous people, was honest and dedicated to the public affairs, deeply hated bad people and bad deeds, did not accept gifts or bribes, and his wife had only enough food and clothing for food and clothing.
At this time, the Qiang barbarians were in rebellion, the harvest was poor, and the people were hungry. General Dou gave all the rewards from the two palaces to the students of the Imperial Academy, and he also used carts to carry food and meals to the poor on the roads.
Dou Shao, the son of Dou Wu's brother, was appointed as Huben's lieutenant general and had a lazy and extravagant temperament.
Dou Wu often reprimanded him severely, but he still didn't realize it, so he wrote a letter requesting that Dou Shao be removed from his post. He also blamed himself for not being able to discipline Dou Shao well and that he should suffer first.
From then on, Dou Shao abided by restraint and did not dare to violate anything illegal, no matter how big or small.
At that time, there were many political mistakes in the country. The eunuchs had exclusive power. Li Ying, Du Mi and others were arrested and interrogated for party affairs.
In the first year of Yongkang, Dou Wu Shangshu said: I heard that a wise emperor is not afraid of people saying sarcastic words in order to understand some dark facts; loyal ministers are not afraid of causing harm by admonishing the emperor, in order to make everything smooth for the country.
Therefore, the harmony between the monarch and his ministers will be famous for centuries.
I was lucky enough to live in the prosperous Ming Dynasty and be enlightened by civil and military forces. How dare I protect the throne in order to escape crime and not be sincere and wise to the emperor?
The emperor first lived in a vassal state and later ascended to the throne. The whole world rejoiced and thought it was the rejuvenation of the country.
However, since taking office, no good political measures have been seen.
Although Liang Ji, Sun Shou, Kou Rong, and Deng Wandai were executed, the eunuchs who often served him continued to cause trouble, bully His Majesty, and engage in deceit. They created systems without authorization and gave officials and titles to bad people at will. The politics of the court became worse day by day, and the treacherous ministers became stronger day by day. I recall that the Western Han Dynasty indulged the Wang family and ruled with flattering ministers, and finally lost the world.
Ignore the lessons of previous failures and continue on the wrong track; I am afraid that the disaster of Hu Hai, the second emperor of the Qin Dynasty, will definitely happen again, and the chaos of Zhao Gao will come either in the morning or in the evening.
summary:
Dou Wu, a native of Fufeng, was known for his virtue and Confucian scholarship. He entered officialdom after his daughter became Empress to Emperor Huan, rising to Colonel of the City Gates. He was known for his integrity, recruiting worthy men, and refusing bribes. During a famine, he distributed his own rewards to students and the poor. He strictly disciplined his extravagant nephew, Dou Shao, even requesting his dismissal. When eunuchs seized power and arrested scholars like Li Ying and Du Mi in a party affair, Dou Wu memorialized the emperor, criticizing the eunuchs' corruption and warning of historical disasters like the fall of the Qin dynasty. He defended the arrested scholars and recommended virtuous ministers. After Emperor Huan died without an heir, Dou Wu consulted with an official and installed Liu Hong as Emperor Ling. He was made a general and marquis.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
武不从，令冰与尹勋、侍御史祝瑨杂考，辞连及曹节、王甫。
勋、冰即奏收节等，使刘瑜内奏。
时，武出宿归府，典中书者先以告长乐五官史朱瑀。
瑀盗发武奏，骂曰： 中官放纵者，自可诛耳。
我曹何罪，而当尽见族灭！
因大呼曰： 陈蕃、窦武奏白太后废帝，为大逆！
乃夜召素所亲壮健者长乐从官史共普、张亮等十七人，血共盟诛武等。
曹节闻之，惊起，白帝曰： 外间切切，请出御德阳前殿。
令帝拔剑踊跃，使乳母赵娆等拥卫左右，取信，闭诸禁门。
召尚书官属，胁以白刃，使作诏板。
拜王甫为黄门令，持节至北寺狱，收尹勋、山冰。
冰疑，不受诏，甫格杀之。
遂害勋，出送。
还共劫太后，夺玺书。
令中谒者守南宫，闭门，绝复道。
使郑等持节，及侍御使、谒者捕收武等。
武不受诏，驰入步兵营，与绍共射杀使者。
召会北军五校士数千人屯都亭下，令军士曰： 黄门常待反，尽力者封侯重赏。
诏以少府周靖行车骑将军，加节，与护匈奴中郎将张奂率五营士讨武。
夜漏尽，王甫将虎贲、羽林、厩驺、都候、剑戟士，合千余人，出屯朱雀掖门，与奂等合。
明旦悉军阙下，与武对阵。
甫兵渐盛，使其士大呼武军曰： 窦武反，汝皆禁兵，当宿卫宫省，何故随反者乎？
先降有赏！
营府素畏服中官，于是武军稍稍归甫。
自旦至食时，兵降略尽。
武、绍走，诸军追围之，皆自杀，枭首洛阳都亭。
收捕宗亲、宾客、姻属，悉诛之，及刘瑜、冯述，皆夷其族。
徒徙家属日南，迁太后于云台。
当是时，凶竖得志，士大夫皆丧其气矣。
translation: 
Dou Wu did not listen to his opinions and ordered Shan Bing, Yin Xun, and Shi Yushi Zhu Wangjin to interrogate Zheng Sa in a chaotic manner. Sa's confession implicated Cao Jie and Wang Fu.
Yin Xun and Shan Bing petitioned to arrest Cao Jie and others, and asked Liu Yu to report to the Empress Dowager.
At this time, Dou Wu went out to stay and returned to his mansion. The person in charge of Zhongshu first reported him to Zhu Wangyu, the official historian of Changle.
Zhu Wangyu stole Dou Wu's memorial and read it, and cursed: Of course the eunuchs who indulge in illegal acts can be killed.
What sin do we people have, and why should we be exterminated together?
So he shouted: Chen Fan and Dou Wu asked the Queen Mother to depose the emperor. This is treason!
So in the evening, he summoned seventeen of his cronies, including the official Shi Gongpu and Zhang Liang from Changle, and made an alliance with livestock blood in their mouths to kill Dou Wu and others.
After hearing this, Cao Jie told the emperor in panic: "It's very tense outside. Please come out of Yu Deyang's front hall."
The emperor was so excited that he drew his sword, and asked the wet nurse Zhao Rao and others to support and protect the left and right, collect the entrance certificates, and close all the forbidden doors.
Summon the ministers and officials, threaten them with swords, and make them write edicts.
He appointed Wang Fu as the Huangmen Order and went to Beisi Prison to arrest Yin Xun and Shan Bing with the emperor's order.
Shan Bing was suspicious and refused to accept the edict, so Wang Fu killed him.
So Yin Xun was killed and Zheng Sa was released.
They came back together to kidnap the Queen Mother and seize the seal.
Those who are exhausted are ordered to guard the Nangong, close the door, and cut off any further path.
Zheng Sa and others were ordered by the emperor to arrest Dou Wu and others together with the imperial censor and the envoys.
Dou Wu refused to accept the order, ran into the barracks, and shot the envoy together with Dou Shao.
He summoned thousands of soldiers from the five Northern Army schools to station under the capital pavilion, and ordered the sergeants to say: The eunuchs in Huangmen have rebelled, and those who try their best to kill them will be rewarded heavily.
The imperial edict ordered Shaofu Zhou Jing to march and ride on General Zhang Huan to lead five battalions of soldiers to attack Dou Wu.
Late at night, Wang Fu led more than a thousand people including Hu Ben, Yu Lin, Mang Ma Cu, Du Hou, and Jian Zhuo Geshi to go out of Zhuqueye Gate to join Zhang Huan and other troops.
Early the next morning, the entire army was stationed under the palace gate to confront Dou Wu's troops.
Wang Fu's troops gradually increased, and he ordered the soldiers to shout to Dou Wu's army: "Dou Wu rebels, you are all forbidden soldiers. You should protect the palace and province. Why do you follow the rebels?"
The first to surrender will be rewarded!
The camp was usually afraid of subduing the eunuchs, so Dou Wu's army returned to Wang Fu.
From morning to lunch, Dou Wu's troops had almost surrendered.
Dou Wu and Dou Shao fled and were pursued and surrounded by Wang Fu's army. They both committed suicide and showed their heads to Luoyang Duting.
Their clansmen, guests, and in-laws were all captured and killed. Liu Yu and Feng Shu all annihilated their clans.
Moved Dou Wu's family to Rinan and moved the Queen Mother to Yuntai.
At this time, the vicious eunuch succeeded, and the upright people were discouraged and dared not say anything.
summary:
Dou Wu, along with Grand Tutor Chen Fan, planned to eliminate the eunuchs. Chen Fan urged immediate action, citing a solar eclipse as an omen. Dou Wu proposed the plan to the Empress Dowager, but she hesitated, citing tradition. After executing some eunuchs, Dou Wu's plan to kill others like Cao Jie stalled. When an astrological omen appeared, Dou Wu and Chen Fan prepared to act. They appointed allies to key posts and arrested a eunuch, whose confession implicated Cao Jie and Wang Fu. However, a eunuch stole the memorial and alerted his colleagues. They falsely accused Dou Wu of treason to the young emperor, seized the Empress Dowager, and issued an edict for Dou Wu's arrest. Dou Wu refused to submit, rallied troops, but his soldiers were persuaded to defect by the imperial edict. Pursued, Dou Wu and his nephew committed suicide. Their clans were exterminated, and the Queen Mother was moved. Dou Wu's grandson, Dou Fu, was saved by a former student, Hu Teng, who hid him and later helped him establish a family.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
五年，天下滋乱，望气者以为京师当有大兵，两宫流血，大将军司马许凉、假司马伍宕说进曰： 《太公六韬》有天子将兵事，可以威厌四方 。
进以为然，入言之于帝。
于是乃诏进大发四方兵，讲武于平乐观下。
起大坛，上建十二重五采华盖，高十丈，坛东北为小坛，复建九重华盖，高九丈，列步兵、骑士数万人，结营为阵，天子亲出临军，驻大华盖下，进驻小华盖。
礼毕，帝躬擐甲介马，称 无上将军 ，行陈三匝而还。
诏使进悉领兵屯于观下。
是时，置西园八校尉，以小黄门蹇硕为上军校尉，虎贲中郎将袁绍为中军校尉，屯骑都尉鲍鸿为下军校尉，议郎曹操为典军校尉，赵融为助军校尉，淳于琼为佐军校尉，又有左右校尉。
帝以蹇硕壮健而有武略，特亲任之，以为元帅，督司隶校尉以下，虽大将军亦领属焉。
硕虽擅兵于中，而犹畏忌于进，乃与诸常侍共说帝遣进西击边章、韩遂。
帝从之，赐兵车百乘，虎贲斧钺。
进阴知其谋，乃上遣袁绍东击徐、兗二州兵，须绍还，即戎事，以稽行期。
初，何皇后生皇子辩，王贵人生皇子协。
群臣请立太子，帝以辩轻佻无威仪，不可为人主，然皇后有宠，且进又居重权，故久不决。
六年，帝疾笃，属协于蹇硕。
硕既受遣诏，且素轻忌于进兄弟，及帝崩，硕时在内，欲先诛进而立协。
及进从外入，硕司马潘隐与进早旧。迎而目之。进惊，驰从道归营，引兵入屯百郡邸，因称疾不入。
硕谋不行，皇子辩乃即位，何太后临朝，进与太傅袁隗辅政，录尚书事。
进素知中官天下所疾，兼忿蹇硕图己，及秉朝政，阴规诛之。
袁绍亦素有谋，因进亲客张津劝之曰： 黄门常侍权重日久，又与长乐太后专通奸利，将军宜更清选贤良，整齐天下，为国家除患。
进然其言。
又以袁氏累世宠贵，海内所归，而绍素善养士，能得豪杰用，其从弟虑贲中郎将术亦尚气侠，故并厚待之。
因复博征智谋之士逄纪、何颙、荀攸等，与同腹心。
蹇硕疑不自安，与中常侍赵忠等书曰： 大将军兄弟秉国专朝，今与天下党人谋诛先帝左右，埽灭我曹。但以硕典禁兵，故且沈吟。
translation: 
In the past five years, the world has become more chaotic. The angry people think that there will be soldiers in the capital, and the two palaces will bleed. General Xu Liang and fake Sima Wudang said to He Jin: "Tai Gong's Six Tao" has the emperor's military affairs, which can control the four directions.
He Jin thought it was right and went to court to tell the emperor.
So he ordered He Jin to send out troops from all directions, hoping that the situation would be peaceful.
A large altar was built, with twelve layers of colorful canopies, ten feet high, built on it. A small altar was built in the northeast of the altar, and another nine layers of canopies, nine feet high, were built. Tens of thousands of infantry and knights were lined up in a camp. The emperor personally came out to review and stationed under the big canopy. How could he station under the small canopy?
After the ceremony, Emperor Ling, wearing armor and horse, called the "Supreme General" and circled the formation three times before returning.
He Jin was ordered to lead the entire army to watch.
At this time, eight captains of Xiyuan were set up, with Xiaohuangmen Jianshuo as the upper military captain, Huben Zhonglang Yuan Shao as the middle military captain, Tunqi Commander Bao Hong as the lower military captain, Yilang Cao Cao as the dian military captain, Zhao Rong as the assistant military captain, Chunyu Qiong as the assistant military captain, and the left and right captains.
Emperor Ling believed that Jian Shuo was strong and capable of military strategy. He trusted him especially and appointed him as a marshal, supervising and supervising the commanders and subordinates below the school captain. Even the generals were also under his leadership.
Although Jian Shuo was in charge of military power in the imperial court, he was still a little afraid of being jealous of He Jin, so he talked to Emperor Ling with his ministers and asked him to send He Jin to the west to attack Bian Zhang and Han Sui.
Emperor Ling listened to them and rewarded He Jin with hundreds of military chariots, tigers, sharp axes and axes.
He Jin secretly knew this was a conspiracy. So he submitted a petition to send Yuan Zhaodong to attack Xu and Yanzhou soldiers. He wanted to wait for Yuan Shao to return before sending troops to delay time.
At first, Queen He gave birth to Prince Bian, and Wang Gui gave birth to Prince Xie.
The ministers asked for a crown prince, but Emperor Ling thought that he was too frivolous and unworthy to be a king. However, the queen was favored by Emperor Ling, and He Jin held great power, so he hesitated to decide.
In the sixth year, Emperor Ling was seriously ill and asked Jian Shuo to assist Liu Xie.
Jian Shuo had received the imperial edict and had always looked down upon and envied brothers He Jin and He Miao. When Emperor Ling passed away, Jian Shuo was in the palace and wanted to kill He Jin first and establish Xie as emperor.
When He Jin came in from outside, Jian Shuo Sima Pan Yin and He Jin had known each other for a long time, and they welcomed He Jin with his eyes. He Jin was frightened and rode back to the camp from a shortcut, leading his troops to the Baijun Mansion, so he refused to go in because of illness.
Jian Shuo's plot did not come true, and Prince Bian became emperor. The Empress Dowager He came to the court to attend to the affairs of state, while He Jin and the Grand Tutor Yuan Kai assisted in the administration and also took charge of the affairs of the Secretariat.
He Jin had known for a long time that eunuchs were hated by everyone in the world, and he hated Jian Shuo for plotting to harm him and for taking over the power of the court, so he secretly arranged to kill the eunuchs.
Yuan Shao also had a plan for a long time, and asked He Jin's relative Zhang Jin to persuade He Jin: Huangmen Changshi has been in power for a long time, and he has committed adultery with the Empress Dowager Changle. The general should select virtuous talents to rectify the world and eliminate harm to the country.
He Jin thought it was right.
In addition, the Yuan family has been favored for many generations and is supported by people at home. Yuan Zhao was good at raising scholars, and the heroes were willing to be used by him. His younger brother Huben Zhonglang, General Yuan Shu, was also fond of chivalry, so they all accepted him favorably.
Therefore, more resourceful people such as Feng Ji, He, Xun You, etc. were recruited and became close friends with them.
Jian Shuo was suspicious and uneasy, so he wrote a letter to Zhao Zhong and others, saying: The generals and brothers are in power and are now plotting with the people of the world to kill those close to the late emperor and to eliminate us. It is only because I am in charge of the forbidden troops, so I am temporarily hesitant.
summary:
He Jin, from Nanyang, rose to power after his half-sister became Empress to Emperor Ling. He was made a general to suppress the Yellow Turban rebellion and later a marquis. He and his brother He Miao defeated a rebellion of thieves. Emperor Ling established a new army with eight colonels, entrusting the eunuch Jian Shuo with overall command. Jian Shuo, fearing He Jin, plotted to send him away. When Emperor Ling died, Jian Shuo planned to kill He Jin and install Prince Xie as emperor, but He Jin was warned and avoided the trap. He Jin then made Prince Bian emperor, with the Empress Dowager as regent. He Jin, hating the eunuchs and Jian Shuo's plot, planned to eliminate them with Yuan Shao's support. However, the Empress Dowager refused, and He Jin's relatives, bribed by eunuchs, also opposed him.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
今乃欲灭我曹种族，不亦太甚乎？
卿言省内秽浊，公卿以下忠清者为谁？
于是尚方监渠穆拔剑斩进于嘉德殿前。
让、珪等为诏，以故太尉樊陵为司隶校尉，少府许相为河南尹。
尚书得诏板，疑之，曰： 请大将军出共议。
中黄门以进头掷与尚书，曰： 何进谋反，已伏诛矣。
进部曲将吴匡、张璋，素所亲幸，在外闻进被害，欲将兵入宫，宫阁闭。
袁术与匡共斫攻之。中黄门持兵守阁。
会日暮，术因烧南宫九龙门及东西宫，欲以胁出让等。
让等入白太后，言大将军兵反，烧宫，攻尚书闼，因将太后、天子及陈留王，又劫省内官属，从复道走北宫。
尚书卢植执戈于阁道窗下，仰数段珪。
段珪等惧，乃释太后。
太后投阁得免。
袁绍与叔父隗矫诏召樊陵、许相、斩之。
苗、绍乃引兵屯朱雀阙下，捕得赵忠等，斩之。
吴匡等素怨苗不与进同心，而又疑其与宦官同谋，乃令军中曰： 杀大将军者即车骑也，土吏能为报仇乎？
进素有仁恩，士卒皆流涕曰： 愿致死！
匡遂引兵与董卓弟奉车都尉旻攻杀苗，弃其尸于苑中。
绍遂闭北宫门，勒兵捕宦者，无少长皆杀之。
或有无须而误死者，至自发露然后得免。
死者二千余人。
绍因进兵排宫，或上端门屋，以攻省内。
张让、段珪等困迫，遂将帝与陈留王数十人步出穀门，奔小平津。
公卿并出平乐观，无得从者，唯尚书卢植夜驰河上，王允遣河南中部掾闵贡随植后。
贡至，手剑斩数人，余皆投河而死。
明日，公卿百官乃奉迎天子还宫，以贡为郎中，封都亭侯。
董卓遂废帝，又迫杀太后，杀舞阳君，何氏遂亡，而汉室亦自此败乱。
论曰：窦武、何进借元舅之资，据辅政之权，内倚太后临朝之威，外迎群英乘风之势，卒而事败阉竖，身死功颓，为世所悲，岂智不足而权有余乎？
translation: 
Now we actually want to kill our race. Isn't it a bit excessive?
You say that the palace is filthy and filthy, but who is loyal and honest below the rank of minister?
So Shangfang's supervisor, Qu Mu, drew his sword and killed He Jin in front of the Jiade Hall.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others issued an edict to appoint the former Taiwei Fan Ling as the Sili school attaché, and the Shaofu Prime Minister Xu as Henan Yin.
The minister received the edict, suspected it was false, and said: "Please invite the general to come out and discuss it together."
Zhonghuangmen threw He Jin's head to the minister and said: "He Jin has rebelled and has been killed."
He Jin's subordinate generals Wu Kuang and Zhang Zhang were He Jin's cronies. They heard that He Jin had been killed outside and wanted to lead troops into the palace. The palace was closed and no one was allowed to enter.
Yuan Shu and Wu Kuang worked together to cut and attack, while Zhonghuang Gate defended the pavilion with weapons.
At sunset, Yuan Shu set fire to the Nine Dragon Gate of Nangong and the East and West Palaces, and wanted to threaten Zhang Rang and others to come out.
Zhang Rang and others went in and told the Queen Mother that the general had rebelled, burned the palace, and attacked the Shangshu Gate, so he kidnapped the Queen Mother, the Emperor, and King Chenliu, and also robbed the palace officials and their families, and took the North Palace via Fudao.
Shangshu Lu Zhi held a sword under the window of the pavilion, raised his head and scolded Duan Wanggui.
Duan Wanggui was afraid and released the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother jumped from the pavilion and escaped without being robbed.
Yuan Shao and his uncle Yuan Wei falsely claimed that the emperor ordered Fan Ling and Xu Xiang to be killed.
He Miao and Yuan Shao then led troops to station under Zhuque Tower, arrested Zhao Zhong and others and killed them.
Wu Kuang waited for a long time and complained that He Miao was not of the same mind as He Jin. He also suspected that he was conspiring with the eunuchs, so he ordered the army to say: The one who killed the general was the chariot. Can you avenge the general?
He Jin was kind and kind to his subordinates, and all the soldiers cried and said: I am willing to die in repayment!
Wu Kuang led his troops and Dong Zhuo's younger brother, Fengche Duwei Dong, attacked and killed He Miao and dumped his body in the garden.
Yuan Shao closed the North Palace Gate and ordered his soldiers to capture the eunuchs. No matter how big or small, kill them all.
Some were mistakenly thought to be killed by eunuchs, while others exposed themselves and were spared from being killed.
More than two thousand people died.
Yuan Shaoyin marched into the palace, and some people from the upper gates attacked the palace.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others could not escape the siege, so they kidnapped the emperor and dozens of King Chen Liu and fled to Xiaopingjin.
The ministers all came out from Pingtang, and no one ran with them. Only Lu Zhi, the minister, rode on horseback on the river at night. Wang Yun sent Minggong from central Henan to follow Lu Zhi.
Mingong arrived and killed several people with his sword, while the rest jumped into the river and died.
The next day, the ministers and officials welcomed the emperor back to the palace, appointed Min Gong as the doctor, and granted the title of Marquis of Ting.
Dong Zhuo then deposed Emperor Ling, forced the Queen Mother to be killed, and killed Lord Wuyang. The He family died, and the Han Dynasty also fell into chaos.
The historian commented: Dou Wu and He Jin, as uncles, held the power of assisting the government. Inside the palace, they relied on the power of the Queen Mother to listen to the government, and outside they had favorable conditions for heroes to ride on the wind. Finally, they were defeated by the eunuchs, died in power, and were lamented by the world. Is it possible that they lacked intelligence but had more power?
summary:
He Jin hesitated, and Yuan Shao suggested summoning provincial generals like Dong Zhuo to threaten the court. Despite advice against this, He Jin agreed. The eunuchs, fearing for their lives, tricked their way back into the palace. When He Jin went to the palace to urge the Empress Dowager to act, the eunuchs ambushed and killed him. His subordinates then attacked the palace. Yuan Shao and others massacred the eunuchs, killing over two thousand. During the chaos, the eunuchs kidnapped the emperor and his brother, but were eventually killed. Dong Zhuo then deposed the emperor, killed the Empress Dowager, and the He family was destroyed, plunging the Han dynasty into chaos. The historian comments that both Dou Wu and He Jin, despite their power and favorable positions, were defeated by eunuchs due to a lack of wisdom and excessive reliance on power.

