Chunk 0: 
original: 
王充王符仲长统王充字仲任，会稽上虞人也，其先自魏郡元城徒焉。
充少孤，乡里称孝。
后到京师，受业太学，师事扶风班彪。
好博览而不守章句。
家贫无书，常游洛阳市肆，阅所卖书，一见辄能诵忆，遂博通众流百家之言。
后归乡里，屏居教授。
仕郡为功曹，以数谏争不合去。
充好论说，始若诡异，终有理实。
以为俗儒守文，多失其真，乃闭门潜思，绝庆吊之礼，户牖墙壁各置刀笔。著《论衡》八十五篇，二十余万言，释物类同异，正时俗嫌疑。
刺史董勤辟为从事，转治中，自免还家。
友人同郡谢夷吾上书荐充才学，肃宗特诏公车征，病不行。
年渐七十，志力衰耗，乃造《养性书》十六篇，裁节嗜欲，颐神自守。
永元中，病卒于家。
王符字节信，安定临泾人也。
少好学，有志操，与马融、窦章、张衡、崔瑗等友善。
安定俗鄙庶孽，而符无外家，为乡人所贱。
自和、安之后，世务游宦，当涂者更相荐引，而符独耿介不同于俗，以此遂不得升进。
志意蕴愤，乃隐居著书三十余篇，以讥当时失得，不欲章显其名，故号曰《潜夫论》。
其指讦时短，讨谪物情，足以观见当时风政，著其五篇云尔。《贵忠篇》曰：夫帝王之所尊敬者，天也；皇天之所爱育者，人也。
今人臣受君之重位，牧天之所爱，焉可以不安而利之，养而济之哉？
是以君子任职则思利人，达上则思进贤，故居上而下不怨，在前而后不恨也。
translation: 
◆Biography of Wang Chong, Wang Chong, courtesy name Zhongren, was from Shangyu, Kuaiji. His ancestors moved here from Yuancheng, Wei County.
Wang Chong's father died when he was young, and his fellow villagers praised him for his filial piety.
Later he went to the capital to study at Taixue, where he was taught by Ban Biao, a Fufeng native.
He is well-read and does not stick to chapters.
His family was poor and had no books, so he often went to Luoyang bookstore to read the books for sale, and he could memorize them after reading them once. So he understood the theories of various schools of thought.
Later, he returned to his hometown and lived in seclusion to teach.
He served as a meritorious official in the prefecture and county, but because he repeatedly advised the superiors, he left due to disagreements.
Wang Chong likes to make comments, which may sound weird at first, but if you think about it carefully, they are reasonable and well-founded.
He thought that those Confucian scholars with little knowledge clung to the chapters and sentences in the books and lost the essence and true meaning of the books. So I closed my door and thought deeply, and declined those social gatherings of congratulations and condolences. There were knives and pens placed on the door, windows and walls of his home. He wrote 85 chapters of "Lunheng", totaling more than 200,000 words, explaining the similarities and differences of objects and correcting people's doubts about certain things at that time.
Dong Qin, the governor, recruited him to work and was later transferred to Zhizhong. He resigned and returned home.
His friend Xie Yiwu from the same county wrote to the court recommending Wang Chong's talents. Suzong specially issued an edict to recruit him, but he was unable to make the trip due to illness.
When he was nearly seventy years old, his memory failed. Due to exhaustion of energy, he wrote sixteen chapters of "The Book of Cultivation of Nature", which discusses the principles of controlling cravings, maintaining the spirit, and guarding one's mind.
During the Yongyuan period, he died of illness at home.
◆Wang Fu Chuan, Wang Fu, Bye Xin, a native of Linjing, Anding.
When he was young, he was studious and ambitious, and was good friends with Ma Rong, Dou Zhang, Zhang Heng, Cui Yuan, etc.
The custom in Anping was to look down on the children of the younger wives, but Wang Fu did not have a maternal wife, so the village looked down upon him.
Since Emperor He and Emperor An, it was popular to serve as an official on the move, and powerful people recommended each other. However, Wang Fu was upright and unconventional, so he could not become an official.
But he felt very uncomfortable in his heart, so he lived in seclusion at home and wrote more than 30 books to satirize the political gains and losses at that time. He did not want his name to be known by others, so the book was called "The Theory of Qianfu".
The book denounces the shortcomings of the time and discusses customs and sentiments, from which the political fashion of the time can be seen. Here are five of them: 1. "Guizhong Pian" The emperor respects God the most, and God loves people the most.
Now that human ministers are entrusted by the king to govern the people whom God loves, how can they not allow them to be raised and relieved safely and smoothly?
Therefore, when a gentleman is in a position, he should think about how to benefit others, and those who are above should think about how to introduce wise people. Therefore, those who are in the upper position should not be resentful when they are below, and those who are in the front and behind will not be disobedient.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
《书》称 天工人其代之 。
王者法天而建官，故明主不敢以私授，忠臣不敢以虚受。
窃人之财犹谓之盗，况偷天官以私己乎！
以罪犯人，必加诛罚，况乃犯天，得无咎乎？
夫五代之臣，以道事君，泽及草木，仁被率土，是以福祚流衍，本支百世。
季世之臣，以谄媚主，不思顺天，专杖杀伐。
白起、蒙恬，秦以为功，天以为贼；息夫、董贤，主以为忠，天以为盗。
《易》曰： 德薄而位尊，智小而谋大，鲜不及矣。
是故德不称，其祸必酷；能不称，其殃必大。
夫窃位之人，天夺其鉴。
虽有明察之资，仁义之志，一旦富贵，则背亲捐旧，丧其本心，疏骨肉而亲便辟，薄知友而厚犬马，宁见朽贯千万，而不忍贷人一钱，情知积粟腐仓，而不忍贷人一斗，骨肉怨望于家，细人谤讟于道。
前人以败，后争袭之，诚可伤也。
历观前政贵人之用心也，与婴兒子其何异哉？
婴兒有常病，贵臣有常祸，父母有常失，人君有常过。
婴兒常病，伤于饱也；贵臣常祸，伤于宠也。哺乳多则生痫病，富贵盛而致骄疾。
爱子而贼之，骄臣而灭之者，非一也。
极其罚者，乃有仆死深牢，衔刀都市，岂非无功于天，有害于人者乎？
夫鸟以山为埤而增巢其上，鱼以泉为浅而穿穴其中，卒所以得者饵也。
贵戚愿其宅吉而制为令名，欲其门坚而造作铁枢，卒其所以败者，非苦禁忌少而门枢朽也，常苦崇财货而行骄僭耳。
不上顺天心，下育人物，而欲任其私智，窃弄君威，反戾天地，欺诬神明。
居累卵之危，而图太山之安；为朝露之行，而思传世之功。
岂不惑哉！
岂不惑哉！《浮侈篇》曰：王者以四海为家，兆人为子。
translation: 
This is what the Book of Books says about heaven's work being replaced by human power.
The king established large and small official systems based on the arrangement of the stars in the sky. Therefore, the emperor did not dare to appoint officials casually due to partiality, and loyal ministers did not dare to accept official positions with an open mind.
Stealing other people's money is still called a robber, let alone stealing from a heavenly official for personal gain!
If you commit a crime, you must be punished. What’s more, if you commit a crime, how can you not admit your guilt?
The ministers of the Tang, Yu, Xia, Shang, and Wu dynasties served the king with the right way, and their kindness reached the grass and trees, and their kindness spread all over the country. Therefore, their blessings spread far and wide, and their tribe lasted for a hundred generations.
The ministers of the last generation used flattery to please the king, and did not think of how to obey God's will, and relied on killing to oppress the people.
For example, Bai Qi and Meng Tian were regarded by the Qin Dynasty as having great merit, but God regarded them as murderous devils; Xi Fu and Dong Xian were regarded by the monarch as loyal ministers, but God regarded them as thieves.
It is said in the Book of Changes: Those who have poor morals but hold high positions, and have low intelligence but want to do great things will rarely succeed.
Therefore, if the character is not proportional, the disaster will be severe; if the ability is not proportional, the disaster will be magnified.
For those who steal official positions, God has long taken away the mirror in which they can look at themselves.
Even if you have keen observation skills and the ambition to be benevolent and righteous, once you become rich and powerful, you will abandon your relatives and abandon your old ways, lose your true heart, alienate your close relatives, and stay close to your favor.
The predecessors have failed, but the people behind are still following the old path. It is really sighing!
Look at the intentions of the nobles in the previous dynasty in governing the country. Is there any difference between the way they treat babies?
Babies have common diseases, noble ministers have common mistakes, parents have common faults, and people have common faults.
The common diseases of babies are overeating and indigestion; the common mistakes of noble ministers are favoring the wrong people, excessive breastfeeding of babies is prone to diseases, and excessive wealth is prone to pride.
There are more than one or two people who love their sons but end up harming them, and pamper their officials and lead them to destruction.
The punishment was extreme, with some servants dying in prison, and some having their heads hanged in public display in the city. Isn't this not meritorious to God, but harmful to the people?
The birds regard the mountain as a low wall and build their nests on it. The fish think that the spring is shallow and use it as their nest. What they end up with is a fishing hook.
The noble family wanted the house to be auspicious and give it a good name, and wanted the door to be strong and use iron as the hinge. The reason for the final failure was not that there were too few taboos and the door hinges were rotten, but that there were too many possessions, which led to pride and transgression.
If you don't have the heart to obey heaven and support the people, but you want to be clever and use the prestige of the king to offend heaven and earth and deceive the gods.
This is tantamount to lying on a tired egg and wanting to be as safe as Mount Tai; walking on the road of life like morning dew clinging to tung leaves and wanting to make meritorious deeds for a lifetime, isn't it confusing?
Aren’t you confused!
2. "Fuxi Chapter" The king regards the world as his home and hundreds of millions of people as his sons.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
一夫不耕，天下受其饥；一妇不织，天下受其寒。
今举俗舍本农，趋商贾，牛马车舆，填塞道路，游手为巧，充盈都邑，务本者少，浮食者众。 商邑翼翼，四方是极。
今察洛阳，资末业者什于农夫，虚伪游手什于末业。
是则一夫耕，百人食之，一妇桑，百人衣之，以一奉百，孰能供之！
天下百郡千县，市邑万数，类皆如此。
本末不足相供，则民安得不饥寒？
饥寒并至，则民安能无奸轨？
奸轨繁多，则吏安能无严酷？
严酷数加，则下安能无愁怨？
愁怨者多，则咎征并臻。
下民无聊，而上天降灾，则国危矣。
夫贪生于富，弱生于强，乱生于化，危生于安。
是故明王之养民，忧之劳之，教之诲之，慎微防萌，以断其邪。
故《易》美节以制度，不伤财，不害民。
《七月》之诗，大小教之，终而复始。
由此观之，人固不可恣也。
今人奢衣服，侈饮食，事口舌而习调欺。
或以谋奸合任为业，或以游博持掩为事。丁夫不扶犁锄，而怀丸挟弹，携手上山邀游，或好取土作丸卖之，外不足御寇盗，内不足禁鼠雀。
或作泥车瓦狗诸戏弄之具，以巧诈小兒，此皆无益也。
《诗》刺 不绩其麻，市也婆娑 。又妇人不修中馈，休其蚕织，而起学巫祝，鼓舞事神，以欺诬细民，荧惑百姓妻女。
羸弱疾病之家，怀忧愤愤，易为恐惧。
至使奔走便时，去离正宅，崎岖路侧，风寒所伤，奸人所利，盗贼所中。
或增祸重崇，至于死亡，而不知诬所欺误，反恨事神之晚，此妖妄之甚者也。
translation: 
If every farmer does not farm, the people of the world will starve; if every woman does not weave, the people of the world will suffer from cold.
The current custom is to lose the foundation of agriculture, and all people are doing business. The roads are clogged with cattle, horses and vehicles. Idle and opportunistic people are everywhere in the city. There are fewer people engaged in farming and mulberry planting, and more people living on leisure. "The Book of Songs" says: The capital of Shang was very neat and located in the center of the four directions.
Now when I look at Luoyang, there are ten times as many traders as there are farmers, and there are ten times as many people who are cheating and idle as there are traders.
This is like a farmer farming to feed a hundred people, a woman weaving to clothe a hundred people, and one person's labor providing for the enjoyment of a hundred people. Who can afford it?
Hundreds of counties, thousands of counties, and tens of thousands of cities in the world are all like this.
If we can't provide each other, then how can the people not endure hunger and cold?
How can people not do deviant things when they are hungry and cold?
With the number of criminals increasing, how can officials not use harsh punishments?
How can the people not resent the harsh punishments imposed on them?
If there are too many people who are grieving, then all the faults and punishments will come.
The people have no livelihood, and if God brings disaster, the country will be in danger.
Poverty comes from not being thrifty when you are rich, cowardice comes from not being humble when you are strong, disaster comes from not practicing virtue in times of peace, and danger comes from not being cautious in times of peace.
Therefore, when a wise king treats the people, he always worries about their sufferings, comforts their hardships, strengthens education, and is cautious to prevent troubles before they occur and cut off the sources of evil.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" praises saving through system regulations, which does not consume people's property and does not infringe on people's interests.
The "July" chapter of "The Book of Songs" covers everything from plowing fields and planting mulberries to as small as twisting hemp ropes in winter, educating them one by one, from spring to winter, and then over again.
From this point of view, people are not allowed to be unrestrained.
Nowadays, people dress luxuriously, eat noble food, and cook in order to satisfy their taste.
Some people conspire to do bad things; some engage in games and gambling; instead of plowing the fields, young people carry pellets to shoot birds and go to the mountains together to play; some use soil to make pills and sell counterfeit medicine. These people cannot resist the enemy externally, and they cannot stop rats and birds from stealing internally.
Some people make toys such as clay carts and tile dogs to deceive children. These are all useless things.
The Book of Songs once satirized some women who did not practice hemp but went to the market to sing, dance and play. Now some women do not even cook, raise silkworms and weave cloth, but instead imitate witches, pretend to be gods and ghosts, deceive the common people, and make ignorant women deceived.
Households with old, weak, sick and disabled people feel anxious and especially scared when someone is sick.
But the witches asked them to leave home and hide on the rugged mountain roads, where they would be exposed to the cold and wind, so that they could be taken advantage of by bad guys and take advantage of by thieves.
Some people's condition worsens until they die. But they didn't know that they were deceived by witches, and instead regretted that it was too late to worship God. This is a situation where witchcraft is particularly powerful.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
或刻画好缯，以书祝辞；或虚饰巧言，希致福祚；或糜折金彩，令广分寸；或断截众缕，绕带手腕；或裁切绮，缝紩成幡。
皆单费百缣，用功千倍，破牢为伪，以易就难，坐食嘉谷，消损白日。
夫山林不能给野火，江海不能实漏卮，皆所宜禁也。
昔孝文皇帝躬衣弋绨，革舄韦带。
而今京师贵戚，衣服饮食，车舆庐第，奢过王制，固亦甚矣。
且其徒御仆妾，皆服文组彩牒，锦锈绮纨，葛子升越，中女布。
犀象珠玉，虎魄玳瑁，石山隐饰，金银错镂，穷极丽靡，转相夸咤。
其嫁娶者，车軿数里，缇帷竟道，骑奴侍童，夹毂并引。
富者竞欲相过，贫者耻其不逮，一飨之所费，破终身之业。
古者必有命然后乃得衣缯丝而乘车马，今虽不能复古，宜令细民略用孝文之制。
古之葬者，厚衣之以薪，葬之中野，不封不树，丧期无数。
后世圣人易之以棺椁，桐木为棺，葛采为缄，下不及泉，上不泄臭。
中世以后，转用楸梓槐柏杶樗之属，各因方土，栽用胶漆，使其坚足恃，其用足任，如此而已。
今者京师贵戚，必欲江南檽、梓、豫章之木。边远下土，亦竞相放效。
夫檽、梓、豫章，所出殊远，伐之高山，引之穷谷，入海乘淮，逆河溯洛，工匠雕刻，连累日月，会众而后动，多牛而后致，重且千斤，功将万失，而东至乐浪，西达郭煌，费力伤农于万里之地。
古者墓而不坟，中世坟而不崇。
仲尼丧母，冢高四尺，遇雨而崩，弟子请修之，夫子泣曰： 古不修墓。
及鲤也死，有棺无椁。
文帝葬芷阳，明帝葬洛南，皆不臧珠宝，不起山陵，墓虽卑而德最高。
今京师贵戚，郡县豪家，生不极养，死乃崇丧。
或至金缕玉匣，檽、梓、楩、楠，多埋珍宝偶人车马，造起大冢，广种松柏，庐舍祠堂，务崇华侈。
案鄗毕之陵，南城之冢，周公非不忠，曾子非不孝，以为褒君爱父，不在于聚财，扬名显亲，无取于车马。昔晋灵公多赋以雕墙，《春秋》以为不君；华元、乐举厚葬文公，君子以为不臣。
translation: 
Some cut good silk and wrote some congratulations; some used rhetoric to pray for God's blessing; some spent money and mines and cut it into small square pieces; some cut long threads and wrapped them around the wrist; some cut brocade silk and sewed it into long banners.
They waste materials for no reason, spend a lot of effort, turn solid into false, turn easy into difficult, eat good food, and waste good time.
The mountains and forests cannot be burned down by wildfires, and the rivers and seas cannot fill up the leaky cups. Both of these should be prohibited.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowen personally wore black silk cloth and used leather for shoes and belts. He lived a very simple life.
But now, the clothes, food, carriages, horses and housing of the noble relatives in the capital are more luxurious than those of princes and kings, which is too much.
Their coachmen, horsemen, servants and concubines all wear colorful silks, high-grade clothing, Gebu tribute cloth, and everything else.
The utensils and clothing include rhinoceros horns, ivory, pearls, gems, amber and tortoise shells, literary talents, gold and silver jewelry, all extremely gorgeous, showing off to each other.
They were marrying off daughters and wives. The vehicles stretched for miles, and the roads were covered with red clothing. The slaves rode horses and drove them side by side.
Rich people always want to be better than others, while poor people always feel inferior to others. The cost of a banquet is a lifetime of family wealth.
In ancient times, it was necessary to have a royal order to wear silk and ride on carriages and horses. Now, although the ancient system cannot be completely restored, the common people should be allowed to act roughly according to the system of Emperor Xiaowen.
In ancient funerals, a thick layer of firewood was laid out and the person was buried in the wild without sealing the soil or planting trees. The mourning period was also indefinite.
Later generations of saints used coffins instead, using paulownia wood as the coffin and sealing it with kudzu. The lower part would not touch the yellow spring and the upper part would not leak out the stench.
After the Middle Ages, wood such as catalpa, cypress, and cypress was used. Depending on the soil quality in various places, different glue paints were used to make it strong, reliable, and durable.
Nowadays, nobles in the capital must use the wood produced in the south of the Yangtze River, such as Ziyu camphor wood, and remote places are competing to imitate it.
As for the wood of Yuzhang, it is produced far away. It is cut from high mountains and transported from deep valleys. It passes through the Haihe River and turns to the Yellow River and Luoshui. It is processed by craftsmen for many years. It requires a lot of labor to move it and many oxen to transport it. It weighs a thousand kilograms and requires ten thousand men. It reaches Dunhuang in the east and Lelang in the west. It is a laborious and laborious journey for farmers, and it has passed thousands of miles.
In ancient times, only tombs were built, not tombs. In the Middle Ages, although tombs were built, they were not very high.
Confucius's mother died. The tomb was four feet high and collapsed when it rained heavily. Confucius's students asked for it to be repaired. Confucius cried and said: In ancient times, tombs were not repaired.
Later, when Confucius' son Bo Li died, there was only an inner coffin but no outer coffin.
Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty was buried in Zhiyin and Emperor Ming Dynasty was buried in Luonan. They were not buried with jewelry and did not pile up mountain tombs. Although the tombs were low, they were of the highest virtue.
Nowadays, the relatives of nobles in the capital and the rich families of the county are not very filial when their parents are alive, but after their death, they have a big funeral.
Some were buried with gold-laced jade boxes, and the coffins must be made of wood or catalpa wood. They buried many pearls, treasures, puppets, carriages and horses, built large tombs, planted pine and cypress trees, and built a cottage and ancestral hall. His father was buried in Nancheng, so it cannot be said that Zengzi was unfilial.
They believe that respecting the king and loving the father does not depend on spending more money to show off one's family name, nor does it depend on using more carriages and horses for ostentation. In the past, Duke Linggong of Jin levied more taxes to decorate the walls. The Spring and Autumn Annals commented that he was not a good monarch. Song Huayuan and Leju buried Duke Wen of Song generously. Gentlemen thought they were not good ministers.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
况于群司士庶，乃可僭侈主上，过天道乎？
《实贡篇》曰：国以贤兴，以谄衰；君以忠安，以佞危。
此古今之常论，而时所共知也。
然衰国危君，继踵不绝者，岂时无忠信正直之士哉，诚苦其道不得行耳。
夫十步之间，必有茂草；十室之邑，必有忠信。
是故乱殷有三仁，小卫多君子。
今以大汉之广土，士民之繁庶，朝廷之清明，上下之修正，而官无善吏，位无良臣。
此岂时之无贤，谅由取之乖实。
夫志道者少与，逐俗者多畴，是以朋党用私，背实趋华。
其贡士者，不复依其质干，准其才行，但虚造声誉，妄生羽毛。
略计所举，岁且二百。
览察其状，则德侔颜、冉，详核厥能，则鲜及中人，皆总务升官，自相推达。
夫士者贵其用也，不必求备。
故四友虽美，能不相兼；三仁齐政，事不一节。
高祖佐命，出自亡秦；光武得士，亦资暴莽。
况太平之时，而云无士乎！
夫明君之诏也若声，忠臣之和也如响。
长短大小，清浊疾徐，必相应也。
且攻玉以石，洗金以盐，濯锦以鱼，浣布以灰。
夫物固有以贱理贵，以丑化好者矣。
智者弃短取长，以致其功。
今使贡士必核以实，其有小疵，勿强衣饰，出处默语，各因其方，则萧、曹、周、韩之伦，何足不致，吴、邓、梁、窦之属，企踵可待。
孔子曰： 未之思也，夫何远之有？
《爱日篇》曰：国之所以为国者，以有民也。
民之所以为民者，以有谷也。
谷之所以丰殖者，以有民功也。
功之所以能建者，以日力也。
translation: 
What's more, ordinary officials and scholars dare to overstep the Lord and exceed the regulations of the state?
3. "Solid Tribute": A state will prosper if it has good ministers, but it will decline if it uses flattering ministers; a monarch will be stable if it has loyal ministers, but it will be in danger if it uses sycophants.
This is the conclusion of ancient and modern times, and it is also a truth recognized by everyone.
However, the grief for the country and the danger for the king continued one after another. Were there no loyal and upright people at that time? It’s really because the right path doesn’t work.
Within ten steps, there must be lush grass; within ten households, there must be loyal people.
The Shang Dynasty was so chaotic and there were still three wise men. The Wei Kingdom was so small and there were still many gentlemen.
Nowadays, in the vast land of the Han Dynasty, the scholars and people are numerous and prosperous. The government of the court is clear and clear, and the top and bottom are harmonious. However, there are no good officials among the officials, and there are not many good ministers in office.
Does this mean there are no wise men at this time? It must have been used improperly.
Those who are willing to follow the right path use it sparingly, while those who join in the evil deeds use it a lot. Therefore, there are groups of cliques, seeking mutual benefit, deviating from simplicity and tending to magnificence.
When selecting talents, they do not pay attention to their actual ability to do things and measure their talents. They just bluff and add inflated words.
A rough estimate is that nearly two hundred people are promoted each year.
Looking at their resumes, they all have the character of Yan Hui and Ran You. After carefully examining their talents, few of them meet the standards of middle-level talents. They all just focus on promotion and mutual recommendation.
The selection of scholars should focus on talents, not on perfection and blame.
Therefore, although the four friends of Confucius each have their own strengths, not everyone is perfect. The three benefactors of the Shang Dynasty were in the same dynasty, but the affairs of governing the country were not very ideal.
The ministers who assisted Han Emperor Gaozu to conquer the world came from the fallen Qin Dynasty; Emperor Guangwu employed many talents, many of whom came from Wang Mang.
What's more, in times of peace, can we say that there are no talents?
The orders of a wise ruler are like voices, and the responses of loyal ministers are like echoes.
The length of the sound wave, the size of the sound, the severity and speed of the sound must all echo each other.
Not to mention that stones are needed to cure jade, salt water to wash gold, fish to wash silk, and ashes to bleach cloth.
Generally speaking, things are originally made of cheap things to manage noble things, and ugly things are made into beautiful things.
Smart people can put aside shortcomings and learn from strengths and achieve results.
Nowadays, when selecting talents, we must strictly assess their performance. If there are minor flaws, there is no need to cover up their faults. They advance and retreat, silently and silently, each in their own way. Then how can civil servants and generals such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Zhou Bo, and Han Xin not come? Talents such as Wu, Deng, Liang, and Dou can be seen by standing on tiptoes.
Confucius once said: If you don't think carefully, if you think about it, why is it so far away?
4. "Love the Sun" A country can become a country because of its common people.
People can become people because they can produce grain.
Grains can be harvested because people are working.
Agriculture can be built because there is time and labor.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
化国之日舒以长，故其民闲暇而力有余；乱国之日促以短，故其民困务而力不足。
舒长者，非谓羲和安行，乃君明民静而力有余也。
促短者，非谓分度损减，乃上暗下乱，力不足也。
孔子称 既庶则富之，既富乃教之 。
是故礼义生于富足，盗窃起于贫穷；富足生于宽暇，贫穷起于无日。
圣人深知力者民之本，国之基也，故务省徭役，使之爱日。
是以尧敕羲和，钦若昊天，敬授民时。
明帝时，公车以反支日不受章奏，帝闻而怪曰： 民废农桑，远来诣阙，而复拘以禁忌，岂为政之意乎！
于是遂蠲其制。
今冤民仰希申诉，而令长以神自畜，百姓废农桑而趋府廷者，相续道路，非朝餔不得通，非意气不得见。
或连日累月，更相瞻视；或转请邻里，馈粮应对。
岁功既亏，天下岂无受其饥者乎？
孔子曰： 听讼吾犹人也。
从此言之，中才以上，足议曲直，乡亭部吏，亦有任决断者，而类多枉曲，盖有故焉。
夫理直则恃正而不桡，事曲则谄意以行赇。
不桡故无恩于吏，行赇故见私于法。
若事有反复，吏应坐之，吏以应坐之故，不得不枉之于庭。
以羸民之少党，而与豪吏对讼，其势得无屈乎？
县承吏言，故与之同。
若事有反复，县亦应坐之，县以应坐之故，而排之于郡。
以一民之轻，而与一县为讼，其理岂得申乎？
事有反复，郡亦坐之，郡以共坐之故，而排之于州。
以一民之轻，与一郡为讼，其事岂获胜乎？既不肯理，故乃远诣公府，公府复不能察，而当延以日月。
贫弱者无以旷旬，强富者可盈千日。
理讼若此，何枉之能理乎？
translation: 
In a peaceful country, the days are long and comfortable, so the people are leisurely and have a surplus of labor; in a chaotic country, the days are fast and short, so the people are sleepy and have insufficient labor.
The days passed comfortably and long, not because the sun moved slower, but because the monarch was wise and the people were quiet and hardworking.
The days are short, not that the numbers in the almanac are reduced, but that the upper body is confused and the lower body is confused and exhausted, and always feels that the labor is not enough.
Confucius said: When the population increases, we should make them rich; when they are already rich, we should strengthen education.
Therefore, etiquette and righteousness come from wealth, thieves come from poverty; wealth comes from time and leisure, and poverty comes from having no days to make a living.
The sage deeply understood that labor is the basis for people's livelihood and the foundation of the country. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce the number of servants among the people so that they cherish the time and do not violate the farming season.
Therefore, Emperor Yao ordered Xihe, the god of the sun, to respect heaven and give the people enough time.
During the reign of Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, the country once stipulated that the new lunar month should be used as the first day of the new lunar month, and the complaints from the people would not be accepted. The emperor was very surprised when he heard it, and said: The people gave up their working time and traveled thousands of miles to come to the court. If they are not allowed to receive more restrictions, is this the original intention of governing the country?
So abolish this unreasonable system.
Nowadays, the people who have been wronged look up to them to complain, but it is difficult for the officials to see them like gods. People who have delayed their working time and come to the government to complain are in an endless stream. They are not informed until the sun is west, and they are not received when they are not happy.
Some took several days, even ten days and a half, to see the officials; some asked neighbors to send food before they could answer.
If the farming season is delayed too much, won’t the world suffer from hunger?
Confucius said: When it comes to hearing lawsuits, I am no different than others.
Judging from what he said, people with average talents or above can judge who is right and wrong. There are also small officials in the rural pavilion who can resolve cases, but most of them are unfair in their judgments and people are wronged. This is for a reason.
The party that thinks it has enough reason always thinks that it has the right to rule the world and will never give in casually, while the party that lacks reason will adopt the method of flattery and bribery.
The party that refuses to surrender will not benefit from the officials, and the party that pays bribes will get favoritism from the officials and pervert the law.
If things go wrong, the officials should be held accountable. Because they are held accountable, they have to exercise power and bend the law.
The common people are the weak and small party, but when they accuse powerful officials, how can they not lose the case due to the huge disparity in power?
The county magistrate believed the words of the official, so he could only uphold the original verdict.
If things go wrong, the county magistrate should be held responsible. The county magistrate is guilty and will blame it on the superior county.
One party is the common people, and the other party is the county official. If this kind of lawsuit continues, can the common people win?
As things turned out, the county was also guilty, and the county appealed to the state because of its guilt.
When the common people go to court with the county, is there any hope of winning? The state officials refused to accept the case, so the people had no choice but to come to the official residence. The government could not conduct a detailed trial, so it delayed the case.
The poor and weak people can delay it for less than ten days, but the rich and powerful can delay it for a thousand days.
With this kind of lawsuit, what unjust case can be cleared up?


Chunk 6: 
original: 
正士怀怨结而不见信，猾吏崇奸轨而不被坐，此小民所以易侵苦，而天下所以多困穷也。
且除上天感痛致灾，但以人功见事言之。
自三府州郡，至于乡县典司之吏，辞讼之民，官事相连，更相检对者，日可有十万人。
一人有事，二人经营，是为日三十万人废其业也。
以中农率之，则是岁三百万人受其饥者也。
然则盗贼何从而销，太平何由而作乎？
《诗》云： 莫肯念乱，谁无父母？
百姓不足，君谁与足？
可无思哉！
可无思哉！
《述赦篇》曰：凡疗病者，必知脉之虚实，气之所结，然后为之方，故疾可愈而寿可长也。
为国者，必先知民之所苦，祸之所起，然后为之禁，故奸可塞而国可安也。
今日贼良民之甚者，莫大于数赦赎。赦赎数，则恶人昌而善人伤矣。
何以明之哉？
夫勤敕之人，身不蹈非，又有为吏正直，不避强御，而奸猾之党横加诬言者，皆知赦之不久故也。
善人君子，被侵怨而能至阙庭自明者，万无数人；数人之中得省问者，百不过一；既对尚书而空遣去者，复什六七矣。
其轻薄奸轨，既陷罪法，怨毒之家冀其辜戮，以解畜愤，而反一概悉蒙赦释，令恶人高会而夸咤，老盗服臧而过门，孝子见仇而不得讨，遭盗者睹物而不敢取，痛莫甚焉！
夫养稂莠者伤禾稼，惠奸轨者贼良民。《书》曰： 文王作罚，刑兹无赦。
先王之制刑法也，非好伤人肌肤，断人寿命也；贵威奸惩恶，除人害也。
故经称 天命有德，五服五章哉，天讨有罪，五刑五用哉 ；《诗》刺 彼宜有罪，汝反脱之 。
古者唯始受命之君，承大乱之极，寇贼奸轨，难为法禁，故不得不有一赦，与之更新，颐育万民，以成大化。
非以养奸活罪，放纵天贼也。
夫性恶之民，民之豺狼，虽得放宥之泽，终无改悔之心。
旦脱重梏，夕还囹圄，严明令尹，不能使其继绝。
translation: 
The righteous people are full of anger but cannot get justice, and the cunning officials engage in crooked ways and avoid punishment. This is the reason why the people are oppressed and the world is becoming more and more poor.
In addition to God feeling pain and sending disasters, we only need to look at man-made disasters to know.
From the three prefectures and counties, to the county and county judicial officials, as well as the common people who are involved in lawsuits, there are about 100,000 people who are implicated in the lawsuits and find witnesses to bring them to court every day.
One person has something to do and two people are on staff, which means that 300,000 people are delayed in agricultural work every day.
Using the average farmer as a standard, three million people will go hungry every year.
In this way, how can thieves be eliminated and where will the peaceful days come from?
"The Book of Songs" says: Don't look back on chaos, who has no parents?
How can the king be wealthy when the living conditions of the common people are insufficient?
Is it worth pondering?
Can it not arouse deep thought?
5. "Shu Amnesty Chapter" When a doctor treats a patient, he must know the deficiency and excess of the patient's pulse and where the Qi stagnation is before he can prescribe a prescription, so the disease can be cured and the patient can live longer.
Those who govern a country must first know the sufferings of the people and the source of the chaos, and then take measures. Only then can bad people and evil deeds be stopped, and the country be stable.
There is nothing that causes the most suffering to the people now than those who continuously use money to atone their sins and obtain forgiveness. The more forgiveness and atonement you have, the more evil people will gain power and the good people will suffer.
How to prove it?
Cautious people do not make mistakes, and there are decent officials who are not afraid of violent people, but groups of cunning people dare to make random accusations because they know that they will be pardoned soon anyway.
There are only a few good-hearted and upright people who can go to the court to redress their grievances after being complained about. Among several people, only one in a hundred is interrogated by officials. Only six or seven out of ten people are sent back empty-handed after being interrogated by the minister.
Those who have done evil have violated the law. The victims hope that they will be sentenced severely to relieve their hatred, but instead they are all pardoned and released, making the evildoers proud. Some habitual thieves even walk past the door in good clothes. The filial people dare not accuse their enemies when they see it. The stolen goods do not dare to take them back. How can there be more pain than this!
Those who cultivate weeds cause losses to crops, and those who harbor bad guys cause harm to the people. "Shu Jing" says: King Wen of Zhou strictly enforced the law and never pardoned the bad guys.
The former kings formulated criminal laws not to make people suffer physical pain and shorten their lives; but to punish bad people and eliminate harm for the people.
Therefore, the scriptures say: God commands virtuous people to be rewarded with five services and five chapters; God uses five different punishments to punish guilty people. "The Book of Songs" satirizes the humanity of unfair law enforcement: This person should be convicted, but you excused him.
In ancient times, only those who were appointed by heaven to be kings were the first. After the great chaos in the world, there were too many lawbreakers, and it was difficult to hold them accountable one by one. Therefore, a general amnesty had to be adopted to give them a chance to reform, so that the people could live in peace, and promote the great order of the world.
This is by no means appeasing bad people, let alone indulging bad people.
Those people with evil nature are a group of wolves. Even if they are forgiven and pardoned, they never repent.
Some people were released from their shackles in the morning and arrested again at night. Even though there were strict officials, they could not stop them.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
何也？
凡敢为大奸者，才必有过于众，而能自媚于上者也。
多散诞得之财，奉以谄谀之辞，以转相驱，非有第五公之廉直，孰不为顾哉？
论者多曰： 久不赦则奸轨炽而吏不制，宜数肆眚以解散之。
此未昭政乱之本源，不察祸福之所生也。
后度辽将军皇甫规解官归安定，乡人有以贷得雁门太守者，亦去职还家，书刺谒规。
规卧不迎，既入而问： 卿前在郡食雁美乎？
有顷，又白王符在门。
规素闻符名，乃惊遽而起，衣不及带，屣履出迎，援符手而还，与同坐，极欢。
时人为之语曰： 徒见二千石，不如一缝掖。
言书生道义之为贵也。
符竟不仕，终于家。
仲长统字公理，山阳高平人也。
少好学，博涉书记，赡于文辞。
年二十余，游学青、徐、并、冀之间，与交友者多异之。
并州刺史高，袁绍甥也。素贵有名，招致四方游土，士多归附。
统过，善待遇，访以当时之事。
统谓曰： 君有雄志而无雄才，好士而不能择人，所以为君深戒也。
雅自多，不纳其言，统遂去之。
无几，以并州叛，卒至于败。
并、冀之士皆以是异统。
统性俶傥，敢直言，不矜小节，默语无常，时人或谓之狂生。
每州郡命召，辄称疾不就。
常以为凡游帝王者，欲以立身扬名耳，而名不常存，人生易灭，优游偃仰，可以自娱。欲卜居清旷，以乐其志，论之曰：
使居有良田广宅，背山临流，沟池环匝，竹木周布，场圃筑前，果园树后。
translation: 
Why?
Anyone who dares to do bad things must have extraordinary abilities and be able to please their superiors.
For example, stuffing more ill-gotten gains and saying more things to please others to soften them up. If someone is not as honest and upright as the fifth ethical person, who wouldn't care about money?
Some people often say: If sins are not pardoned for a long time, bad people will flourish and officials will be unable to stop them. We should use various methods to enlighten them to break them up.
This is because we do not understand the fundamental source of political chaos and the causes of misfortunes and blessings.
Later, Huangfugui, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, was dismissed from his official post and returned to Anding. The people from the same town who used their goods and wealth to buy the governor of Yanmen also left their jobs and went home, and went to see Huangfugui with their business cards.
Huangfu Gui lay sleeping and did not come out to greet the man. After the man had already entered the door, he asked: "You used to eat wild goose meat in the county magistrate Renli. It tasted good, didn't it?"
Soon, someone reported that Wang Fu was at the door asking to see him.
Huangfu Gui had always heard of Wang Fu's reputation, so he got up quickly, with his clothes not tied yet, put on his shoes and went out to greet him. He held Wang Fu's hand and entered the room, sitting with him very happily.
People at that time said this: A governor with two thousand stones is not worth a common man.
That is to say, the moral character of scholars is noble.
Wang Fu finally stopped serving as an official and died at home.
◆Zhong Changtong, also known as Zhong Changtong, was born in Gaoping, Shanyang.
When he was young, he was studious, read extensively in books, and was good at diction.
When he was more than 20 years old, he studied in Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Bingzhou and Jizhou. Most of his friends thought he was different from ordinary people.
Gao Gan, the governor of Bingzhou, was Yuan Shao's nephew. He had always been noble and famous, attracting wanderers from all over, and many scholars attached themselves to him.
Zhong Changtong passed by Gao Gan, who entertained him well and asked about the major events at that time.
Changtong said to the senior officials: You have great ambitions but no great talents. You like to make friends with scholars but cannot choose talents. Therefore, I am worried about you. Please take this as a warning.
The senior cadre often felt that he was good. If he didn't accept his advice, Chang Tong would leave.
Not long after, the high officials rebelled against Bingzhou and were defeated.
The scholars of Bingzhou and Jizhou all differed in their ability to know people.
Zhong Changtong was a man of suave nature, who dared to speak out without caring about trivial matters, and who spoke impertinently in silence. Some people at that time called him Kuang Sheng.
Whenever summoned by the state or county, he often complained that he was ill and would not go away.
It is often thought that those who lobby the emperor just want to establish themselves and make a name for themselves, but fame does not last forever and life is easy to perish. They can enjoy themselves by wandering and admiring. They want to build a house and live in a clear land to satisfy their ambitions.
His argument is: Suppose you live in a large house with fertile land, with mountains on the back and water on the side, surrounded by ditches and ponds, surrounded by bamboos and trees, with a field in front and an orchard in the back.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
舟车足以代步涉之艰，使令足以息四体之役。
养亲有兼珍之膳，妻孥无苦身之劳。
良朋萃止，则陈酒肴以娱之；嘉时吉日，则亨羔豚以奉之。
蹰躇畦苑，游戏平林，濯清水，追凉风，钓游鲤，弋高鸿。
讽于舞雩之下，咏归高堂之上。
安神闺房，思老氏之玄虚；呼吸精和，求至人之仿佛。
与达者数子，论道讲书，俯仰二仪，错综人物。
弹《南风》之雅操，发清商之妙曲。
消摇一世之上，睥睨天地之间。
不受当时之责，永保性命之期。
如是，则可以陵霄汉，出宇宙之外矣。
岂羡夫入帝王之门哉！
又作诗二篇，以见其志，辞曰：飞鸟遗迹，蝉蜕亡壳。
腾蛇弃鳞，神龙丧角。
至人能变，达士拔俗。
乘云无辔，骋风无足。
垂露成帏，张霄成幄。
沆瀣当餐，九阳代烛。
恒星艳珠，朝霞润玉。
六合之内，恣心所欲。
人事可遗，何为局促？
大道虽夷，见几者寡。
任意无非，适物无可。
古来绕绕，委曲如琐。
百虑何为，至要在我。
寄愁天上，埋忧地下。
叛散《五经》，灭弃《风》、《雅》。
百家杂碎，请用从火。
抗志山栖，游心海左。
元气为舟，微风为。
敖翔太清，纵意容冶。
尚书令荀彧闻统名，奇之，举为尚书郎。
后参丞相曹操军事。
每论说古今及时俗行事，恒发愤叹息。
因著论名曰《昌言》，凡三十四篇，十余万言。
献帝逊位之岁，统卒，时年四十一。
translation: 
Boats and carts can replace the labor of traveling and wading, which is enough to relieve the four-body struggle.
Raising relatives has a delicious meal, and the wife does not have to work hard.
When good friends arrive, they will be entertained with wine and food, festive events, and pigs and sheep will be killed to honor them.
Take a walk in Qiyuan, play in the plain forest, wash your feet on the shore of clear water, enjoy the cool breeze, go fishing, and shoot birds.
Sing under the dancing beauties, chant in the high hall.
Relax in the boudoir, think about the mystery of Lao Tzu, breathe fresh air, and seek to be like a perfect person.
Talking about Taoism and writing with a few close friends, looking down at the sky and the earth, commenting on the rights and wrongs of people.
Play the "South Wind" harp and sing the wonderful music of Qing Dynasty and Shang Dynasty.
A carefree life, looking between heaven and earth.
He will not be blamed at that time, and his life will be preserved forever.
In this way, one can rise above the sky and be beyond the universe.
Are you still envious of entering the imperial family?
He also wrote two poems to express his ambition. The poem says: The flying birds leave their remains, the singing cicada sheds its body.
The flying snake abandons its scales and armor, and the divine dragon loses its head and horns.
A great person can change, a noble person can transcend vulgarity.
Riding on the clouds without a saddle or bridle, riding the wind with no satisfaction.
The hanging dew becomes a tent curtain, and the Zhang Xiao becomes a scarf.
Hangzhou serves as dinner, and Nine Suns replace candles.
The stars are as bright as pearls, and the morning glow is as smooth as jade.
Liuhe allows me to roam as much as I want.
People and things can be left behind, so why be cramped.
Although the road is flat, there are only a few people there.
There is no right or wrong in anything you want, and there is nothing wrong with what you want.
It has been a circuitous and complex process since ancient times.
No matter what I do, the most important thing is still with me.
Put your worries in heaven and bury them in the earth.
The rebellion was dispersed in the Five Classics, and Heaven abandoned the Wind and Ya.
Baijia is too messy, please use a fire.
The ambition to fight is in the mountains, and the heart is in the sea.
The vitality becomes a boat, and the breeze can be the rudder.
Ao Xiang is in Taiqing, Zongyi is in Rongye.
The minister ordered Xun to be surprised when he heard Zhong Changtong's name, so he appointed him as minister.
Later he participated in the military affairs of Prime Minister Cao Cao.
Whenever he talks about ancient and modern times and the customs and practices of that time, he often sighs with anger.
Because the treatise is called "Chang Yan", it has a total of thirty-four chapters and more than 100,000 words.
In the year when Emperor Xian abdicated, Zhong Changtong died at the age of forty-one.


