Summary line 0
Span: 0-48 (score=0.4358)

original:
恭宗孝安皇帝讳祜，肃宗孙也。
父清河孝王庆，母左姬。
帝自在邸第，数有神光照室，又有赤蛇盘于床第之间。
年十岁，好学《史书》，和帝称之，数见禁中。
延平元年，庆始就国，邓太后特诏留帝清河邸。
八月，殇帝崩，太后与兄车骑将军邓骘定策禁中。
其夜，使骘持节，以王青盖车迎帝，斋于殿中。
皇太后御崇德殿，百官皆吉服，群臣陪位，引拜帝为长安侯。
皇太后诏曰： 先帝圣德淑茂，早弃天下。
朕奉皇帝，夙夜瞻仰日月，冀望成就。
岂意卒然颠沛，天年不遂，悲痛断心。
朕惟平原王素被痼疾，念宗庙之重，思继嗣之统，唯长安侯祜质性忠孝，小心翼翼，能通《诗》、《论》，笃学乐古，仁惠爱下。
年已十三，有成人之志。
亲德系后，莫宜于祜。
《礼》 昆弟之子犹己子 ；《春秋》之义，为人后者为之子，不以父命辞王父命。
其以祜为孝和皇帝嗣，奉承祖宗，案礼仪奏。 又作策命曰： 惟延平元年秋八月癸丑，皇太后曰：咨长安侯祜：孝和皇帝懿德巍巍，光于四海；大行皇帝不永天年。
朕惟侯孝章帝世嫡皇孙，谦恭慈顺，在孺而勤，宜奉郊庙，承统大业。
今以侯嗣孝和皇帝后。
其审君汉国，允执其中。一人有庆，万民赖之。
皇帝其勉之哉！ 读策毕，太尉奉上玺绶，即皇帝位，年十三。
太后犹临朝。
九月庚子，谒高庙。
辛丑，谒光武庙。
六州大水。
己未，遣谒者分行虚实，举灾害，赈乏绝。
丙寅，葬孝殇皇帝于庚陵。
乙亥，陨石于陈留。
西域诸国叛，攻都护任尚，遣副校尉梁慬救尚，击破之。
冬十月，四州大水，雨雹。
诏以宿麦不下，赈赐贫人。
十二月甲子，清河王薨，使司空持节吊祭，车骑将军邓骘护丧事。
乙酉，罢鱼龙曼延百戏。
永初元年春正月癸酉朔，大赦天下。
蜀郡徼外羌内属。
戊寅，分犍为南部为属国都尉。
禀司隶、兖、豫、徐、冀、并州贫民。
二月丙午，以广成游猎地及被灾郡国公田假与贫民。
丁卯，分清河国封帝弟常保为广川王。
庚午，司徒梁鲔薨。
三月癸酉，日有食之，诏公卿内外众官、郡国守、相，举贤良方正、有道术之士，明政术、达古今、能直言极谏者，各一人。
己卯，永昌徼外僬侥种夷贡献内属。
甲申，葬清河孝王，赠龙旗、虎贲。
夏五月甲戌，长乐卫尉鲁恭为司徒。
丁丑，诏封北海王睦孙寿光侯普为北海王。
九真徼外夜郎蛮夷举上内属。
六月戊申，爵皇太后母阴氏为新野君。
丁巳，河东地陷。
壬戌，罢西域都护。
先零种羌叛，断陇道，大为寇掠，遣车骑将军邓骘、征西校尉任尚讨之。丁卯，赦除诸羌相连结谋叛逆者罪。

translation:
Emperor Gongzong Xiaoan was named Hu, and he was the grandson of Suzong.
His father is Liu Qing, the Xiaowang of Qinghe, and his mother is Zuo Ji.
Since the emperor lived in his father's mansion, there have been many times when gods have illuminated his room, and there have been red snakes coiled on his bed.
At the age of ten, he was eager to learn "Historical Records" and was praised by Emperor He, who summoned him to the palace many times.
In the first year of Yanping, Liu Qingcai came to Fengguo. Empress Dowager Deng issued a special order to keep Liu Hu in Qinghe residence.
In August, Emperor Shang passed away, and the Queen Mother and her brother, the chariot and cavalry general Deng Zhi, decided on the throne in the palace.
That night, Deng Zhao was sent with a talisman to greet Liu Hu in a Wang Qingqi chariot, and he tidied up his body and mind in the palace.
The Empress Dowager came to the Chongde Hall. All the officials were dressed in auspicious clothes, and all the ministers attended to accompany her. She introduced Liu Hu as the Marquis of Chang'an.
The empress dowager issued an edict saying: The late emperor's holy virtue and virtue, Shumao, abandoned the world long ago.
I serve the emperor and look forward to the years day and night, hoping to grow up quickly.
Unexpectedly, a sudden change occurred, and the life was not forever, and the heart was broken with grief.
I consider that the King of Pingyuan is suffering from a chronic illness. He has the important responsibilities of the ancestral temple and the successor to the throne. Only Liu Hu, the Marquis of Chang'an, is loyal and filial by nature, careful and prudent. He can understand "Poetry" and "Lun", study hard in ancient times, and be benevolent and loving. It is very suitable.
He is now thirteen years old and has the ambition of an adult.
There is no one better than Liu Hu to be close to the people and carry on the family line with virtue and virtue.
"Book of Rites" says: A brother's son is like his own son; the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" means that the son is his son, and he is not ordered by his father but by his grandfather.
Hu should be regarded as the heir of Emperor Xiaohe and inherit the ancestors, in line with etiquette standards. He also wrote a policy letter saying: On the eighth day of the eighth month in the autumn of the first year of Yanping, the Empress Dowager said: "Consultation!" Chang'an Marquis Liu Hu: Emperor Xiaohe's virtue is majestic and shines all over the world; the newly deceased emperor's life span is too short.
I think of you, Marquis of Chang'an, as the direct grandson of Emperor Xiaozhang. You are humble and kind, and very diligent since your childhood. You are suitable for worshiping in suburban temples and inheriting the emperor's legacy.
Now the Marquis of Chang'an is the heir of Emperor Xiaohe.
The Han world should be governed with caution and the golden mean should be practiced with integrity. If one person is happy, all the people will rely on it.
The emperor should encourage him! After reading the policy, the Taiwei presented the imperial seal, and Liu Hu succeeded to the throne at the age of thirteen.
The Queen Mother is still in charge of the government.
On September 26th, I paid a visit to Gaomiao.
On the 27th, I visited Guangwu Temple.
Floods occurred in six states.
At the end of the day, he sent envoys to investigate the actual situation, report disasters, and provide relief to the poor who were short of food.
Bingyin buried Emperor Xiaoshang in Kangling.
Yihai, Chenliu meteorite.
The foreign tribes in the Western Regions rebelled and attacked Ren Shang, the governor. He sent the deputy captain Liang Jinjin to rescue Ren Shang and defeated the foreign tribes.
In October of winter, there were floods and hail in the four states.
The edict issued an order to provide relief and rewards to the poor because wheat could not be planted.
On December 21, King Qinghe passed away. Sikong was sent to hold the talisman to pay tribute, and the chariot general Deng Zhi was sent to protect the funeral.
Yiyou, let's go and let the fish and dragons bloom and perform hundreds of plays.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongchu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
The Qiang people outside Shu County were subordinated to the inner vassal.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Jianwei was divided into the southern part and became the captain of the vassal state.
The grain stored in warehouses was loaned to the poor in Sili, Yan, Yu, Xu, Ji, and Bingzhou.
On the fourth day of February, the Guangcheng recreation and hunting place and the public land of the disaster-stricken counties were lent to the poor.
On the 25th, Liu Changbao, the emperor's brother from the Qinghe Kingdom, was named King of Guangchuan.
On the 28th, Situ Liang died.
On the second day of March, there is a solar eclipse. The imperial edict is directed to all the officials inside and outside the country, as well as to the prime ministers of prefectures and states, to recommend virtuous, upright and Taoist scholars, one person each who has good political skills, has reached the ancient and modern times, and can speak out and give advice.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the Yi people outside Yongchang paid tribute to the internal genus.
On the twelfth day, King Xiao of Qinghe was buried and presented with dragon flags and tiger batons.
On the third day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Lu Gong, the Changle Guardsman, was appointed Situ.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, the imperial edict conferred the title of King of the North Sea, Liu Mu, Sun Shouguanghou Liu Pu.
Jiuzhen is outside Yelang's barbarian tribe, and he is a native of the country.
On the eighth day of the sixth lunar month, the Empress Dowager Mu Yin was granted the title of Xinyejun.
On the 17th, the land east of Hedong collapsed.
On the 22nd, he was dismissed as the Protector of the Western Regions.
The Ling Zhong Qiang rebelled, cut off the Long Road, and carried out major raids. They sent the chariot general Deng Zhi and Zhengxi Xiaowei Ren Shang to attack them. On the 27th, they pardoned the sins of the Qiang people for colluding with each other and conspiring to rebel.

summary:
Emperor Gongzong Xiaoan, named Liu Hu, was the grandson of Suzong and son of Liu Qing, the Xiaowang of Qinghe, and Zuo Ji. From childhood, supernatural signs like illuminated rooms and red snakes on his bed were observed. At ten, he studied "Historical Records" and was favored by Emperor He. In the first year of Yanping, after Emperor Shang's death, Empress Dowager Deng and her brother Deng Zhi chose Liu Hu as successor. He was enthroned at thirteen, with the Empress Dowager regent. The early years saw natural disasters, Qiang rebellions, and relief efforts. In Yongchu years, floods, earthquakes, and famines struck, leading to edicts for grain relief, tax exemptions, and crackdowns on corruption. The Qiang conflicts persisted, with battles and occasional victories. In 107, a solar eclipse prompted calls for virtuous officials. By 108, droughts and locust plagues worsened, with cannibalism reported. The emperor crowned in 109, but disasters continued. In 110, pirate Zhang Bolu raided coastal counties. By 111, rebellions and Qiang attacks intensified. In 112, the capital suffered locusts and earthquakes. In 113, the Empress Dowager visited the ancestral temple. In 114, solar eclipses and Qiang raids occurred. In 115, the reign changed to Yuanchu, with amnesties and relief. In 116, floods and Qiang attacks persisted. In 117, solar eclipses and rebellions marked the year. In 118, the Qiang were pacified. In 119, droughts and Xianbei raids continued. In 120, earthquakes and epidemics struck. In 121, the Empress Dowager died, and the emperor assumed full power. In 122, Xianbei and Qiang attacks continued. In 123, the emperor toured east, performing sacrifices. In 124, solar eclipses and rebellions occurred. In 125, the emperor died at thirty-two, succeeded by Beixiang Hou Liu Yi. Historians criticized his reign for weak governance, reliance on Empress Dowager Deng, and decline of Han power, marked by corruption, Qiang troubles, and natural disasters.

================================================================================

