Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 5, 14, 22, 33]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
霍光字子孟，票骑将军去病弟也。
父中孺，河东平阳人也，以县吏给事平阳侯家，与侍者卫少皃私通而生去病。
中孺吏毕归家，娶妇生光，因绝不相闻。
久之，少皃女弟子夫得幸于武帝，立为皇后，去病以皇后姊子贵幸。
既壮大，乃自知父为霍中孺，未及求问。
会为票骑将军击匈奴，道出河东，河东太守郊迎，负弩矢先驱，至平阳传舍，遣吏迎霍中孺。
中孺趋入拜谒，将军迎拜，因跪曰： 去病不早自知为大人遗体也。
中孺扶报叩头，曰： 老臣得托命将军，此天力也。
去病大为中孺买田宅、奴婢而去。
还，复过焉，乃将光西至长安，时年十余岁，任光为郎，稍迁诸曹、侍中。
translation: 
Huo Guang, courtesy name Zimeng, was the younger brother of Huo Qubing, the general of the Hussars.
His father, Zhong Ru, was from Pingyang, Hedong Province. He served in the Pingyang Hou family as a county official and had an affair with his maid Wei Shaoer and gave birth to Huo Qubing.
After Zhongru completed his errand, he returned home and married again and gave birth to Huo Guang. He broke off the relationship with Wei Shaoer and had no contact with him.
After some time, the boy's younger sister Zifu became favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and was made the queen. Huo Qubing had a distinguished status and was favored by the emperor because he was the son of the queen's sister.
After Huo Qubing grew up, he learned that his father was Huo Zhongru, but he never had time to visit him.
It happened that Huo Qubing was appointed as a hussar general and went to attack the Xiongnu. He passed by Hedong. The governor of Hedong went to the outskirts of the city to greet him. He led the way with a bow and arrow on his back and rested at the reception area of ​​Hou Jiabao in Pingyang.
Huo Qubing sent a small official to invite Huo Zhongru to meet him. Zhongru hurried over and greeted him respectfully. Huo Qubing stepped forward to greet him and bowed down. He knelt down and said, "Qubing didn't know that I was your flesh and blood."
The middle child kowtowed to the ground and said, "This veteran can entrust his destiny to the general. This is God's help."
Qubing bought a large number of fields, houses, and slaves for Zhongru and left.
When returning to the army, Huo Qubing passed by Hedong again, so he took Huo Guang to Chang'an. Huo Guang was only ten years old at the time, so he appointed Huo Guang as Lang, and soon he was promoted to the minister of all Cao Cao.

summary:
summary line 0: Huo Guang, courtesy name Zimeng, was the younger half-brother of the renowned general Huo Qubing. Their father Zhongru served as a county official in the Pingyang Hou family and had an affair with the maid Wei Shaoer, fathering Huo Qubing. After completing his duties, Zhongru returned home, married, and fathered Huo Guang, severing all ties with Wei Shaoer. When Huo Qubing later learned of his father's identity while serving as a hussar general attacking the Xiongnu, he visited Zhongru in Hedong, purchased lands and slaves for him, and took ten-year-old Huo Guang to Chang'an. Huo Guang was appointed as Lang and later promoted to various positions. After Huo Qubing's death, Huo Guang served as Guanglu and Commander-in-Chief, accompanying Emperor Wu for over twenty years with cautious conduct, earning the emperor's complete trust.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
去病死后，光为奉车都尉、光禄大夫，出则奉车，入侍左右，出入禁闼二十余年，小心谨慎，未尝有过，甚见亲信。
征和二年，卫太子为江充所败，而燕王旦、广陵王胥皆多过失。
是时，上年老，宠姬钩弋赵婕妤有男，上心欲以为嗣，命大臣辅之。
察群臣唯光任大重，可属社稷。
上乃使黄门画者画周公负成王朝诸侯以赐光。
后元二年春，上游五柞宫，病笃，光涕泣问曰： 如有不讳，谁当嗣者？
上曰： 君未谕前画意邪？
立少子，君行周公之事。
光顿首让曰： 臣不如金日磾。
日磾亦曰： 臣外国人，不如光。
上以光为大司马大将军，日磾为车骑将军，及太仆上官桀为左将军，搜粟都尉桑弘羊为御史大夫，皆拜卧内床下，受遗诏辅少主。
明日，武帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝昭皇帝。
帝年八岁，政事一决于光。
先是，后元元年，侍中仆射莽何罗与弟重合侯通谋为逆，时，光与金日磾、上官桀等共诛之，功未录。
武帝病，封玺书曰： 帝崩发书以从事。
遗诏封金日磾为秺侯，上官桀为安阳侯，光为博陆侯，皆以前捕反者功封。
时，卫尉王莽子男忽侍中，扬语曰： 帝崩，忽常在左右，安得遗诏封三子事！
translation: 
After Qu Bing's death, Huo Guang was granted the title of Guanglu, the Commander-in-Chief of the Fengcha. He accompanied the emperor as a chariot when traveling, and served around him in the palace. He had been in and out of the forbidden palace for more than 20 years. He had always been cautious and made no mistakes. He was very close and trusted by the emperor.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Prince Wei was framed and defeated by Jiang Chong. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling both made many mistakes.
At this time, the emperor was old, and his beloved concubine Gou Yi and Zhao Jieyu gave birth to a boy. The emperor planned to pass the throne to him and ordered ministers to assist him.
The emperor observed that among the ministers, only Huo Guang could take on the important task of assisting the country.
The emperor then asked the court painter to draw a picture of Duke Zhou carrying King Cheng on his back to receive congratulations from the princes, and gave it to Huo Guang.
In the spring of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor traveled to Wuzha Palace and became very ill. Huo Guang asked in tears: If something happens to the emperor, who will succeed him?
The emperor said: Don't you still understand the meaning of the painting I gave you last time?
When you establish a young son as emperor, you should act like the Duke of Zhou assisting the king.
Huo Guang kowtowed and said humbly: I am not as good as Jin Rixi.
Jin Rixi also said: I am a foreigner, not as good as Huo Guang.
The emperor then appointed Huo Guang as the Grand Sima General, Jin Rixi as the Chariot and Cavalry General, Shangguan Jie, the imperial servant, as the General of the Left, and Sang Hongyang, the captain of the Sosu Su Army, as the Imperial Censor. They all kowtowed before the bed in the emperor's bedroom and accepted their duties, accepting orders to assist the young monarch.
The next day, Emperor Wu died, and the prince inherited the throne and was called Emperor Xiaozhao.
The emperor was only eight years old, and Huo Guang made all political decisions.
Before this, in the first year of Hou, the servant Shemang Heluo and his younger brother Hou Mangtong conspired to rebel. At that time, Huo Guang, Jin Rixi, Shangguan Jie and others killed these rebels, and their achievements were not recorded and rewarded.
After Emperor Wu fell ill, he sealed the seal and said: After I die, I will open the seal and follow it.
An imperial edict was sent to confer Jin Rixi as the Marquis of Jie, Shangguan Jie as the Marquis of Anyang, and Huo Guang as the Marquis of Bolu. They were all awarded according to their achievements in hunting down rebels in the past.
At that time, Wang Hu, the son of Weiwei Wang Mang, was serving as a servant. He threatened outside: "When the emperor died, I was always by his side. How could I send Shao to seal them?"

summary:
summary line 1: As Emperor Wu aged and Prince Wei was defeated, the emperor chose his young son as heir and entrusted Huo Guang with assisting him. He gave Huo Guang a painting of Duke Zhou carrying King Cheng, symbolizing his expectations. When Emperor Wu fell ill at Wuzha Palace, he appointed Huo Guang as Grand Sima General, along with Jin Rixi, Shangguan Jie, and Sang Hongyang as co-regents. After Emperor Wu's death, the eight-year-old Emperor Zhao ascended the throne, with Huo Guang making all political decisions. Huo Guang was calm, thoughtful, and meticulous in his conduct, maintaining consistent positions when entering and leaving the palace gates.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
桀父子既尊盛，而德长公主。
公主内行不修，近幸河间丁外人。
桀、安欲为外人求封，幸依国家故事以列侯尚公主者，光不许。
又为外人求光禄大夫，欲令得召见，又不许。
长主大以是怨光。
而桀、安数为外人求官爵弗能得，亦惭。
自先帝时，桀已为九卿，位在光右。及父子并为将军，有椒房中宫之重，皇后亲安女，光乃其外祖，而顾专制朝事，繇是与光争权。
燕王旦自以昭帝兄，常怀怨望。
及御史大夫桑弘羊建造酒榷、盐铁，为国兴利，伐其功，欲为子弟得官，亦怨恨光。
于是盖主、上官桀、安及弘羊皆与燕王旦通谋，诈令人为燕王上书，言： 光出都肄郎羽林，道上称跸，太官先置。
又引： 苏武前使匈奴，拘留二十年不降，还乃为典属国，而大将军长史敞亡功为搜粟都尉，又擅调益莫府校尉。
光专权自恣，疑有非常。
translation: 
After Shangguan Jie and his son became powerful, they were very grateful to the elder.
The eldest princess has no moral integrity and gets close to Ding, a foreigner who dotes on Hewen.
Shangguan Ji and Shangguan An planned to apply for the title of marquis on behalf of Ding, hoping to follow the country's previous practice of only marquises marrying princesses, but Huo Guang did not agree.
They also asked for the position of Guanglu doctor for Ding foreigners in order to be summoned by Emperor Zhao, but they were rejected by Huo Guang again.
The eldest princess was very resentful towards Huo Guang.
Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An also felt ashamed because they had failed to obtain titles for Ding strangers several times.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Shangguan Jie was already among the nine ministers, and his official position was above Huo Guang. When Shangguan and his son were both generals, they had an important relationship with the queen in the palace. The queen was Shangguan An's biological daughter, and Huo Guang was just her grandfather. Instead, he took charge of the government alone. Therefore, Shangguan and his son competed with Huo Guang for power.
King Liu Dan of Yan thought he was Emperor Zhao's brother, but he did not inherit the throne, so he often harbored resentment.
In addition, Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, suggested setting up a liquor monopoly and salt and iron official management system, which increased the country's wealth. Sang Hongyang took credit for it and planned to get official positions for his children, but failed, so he resented Huo Guang.
So Eyi Gaizhu, Shangguan Jie, Shangguan An and Sang Hongyang conspired with the King of Yan Liu Dan, pretending to have someone write a letter on behalf of the King of Yan, saying: Huo Guang went out of the city to practice Lang Guan and Yu Lin. He set up a dignified manner on the road like an emperor when traveling, and also asked the eunuchs to prepare meals in advance.
Also, Su Wu was sent as an envoy to the Huns, and was detained for twenty years without surrendering. After returning, he was only made a vassal state, while Yang Chang, the chief general of the general, had no merit, but became the captain of Sosu. Huo Guang also transferred in without authorization to increase the number of captains in his shogunate.
Huo Guang is arrogant in his power, I'm afraid he has bad intentions.

summary:
summary line 2: Huo Guang's daughter married Shangguan Jie's son Shangguan An, whose daughter became Emperor Zhao's empress. However, conflicts arose when Huo Guang refused to grant titles to Ding Wairen, a favorite of the Grand Princess Eyi Gaizhu. Shangguan Jie, his son, Sang Hongyang, and the Grand Princess conspired with King Liu Dan of Yan, sending a false letter accusing Huo Guang of arrogance and improper conduct. Emperor Zhao, only fourteen, saw through the deception, noting that the letter mentioned events that occurred only ten days prior, which King Yan could not have known. The conspirators then plotted to assassinate Huo Guang, but their scheme was discovered. Huo Guang executed Shangguan Jie, Shangguan An, Sang Hongyang, Ding Wairen, and their families, while King Yan and the Grand Princess committed suicide.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
后桀党有谮光者，上辄怒曰： 大将军忠臣，先帝所属以辅朕身，敢有毁者坐之。
自是桀等不敢复言，乃谋令长公主置酒请光，伏兵格杀之，因废帝，迎立燕王为天子。
事发觉，光尽诛桀、安、弘羊、外人宗族。
燕王、盖主皆自杀。
光威震海内。
昭帝既冠，遂委任光，讫十三年，百姓充实，四夷宾服。
元平元年，昭帝崩，亡嗣。
武帝六男独有广陵王胥在，群臣议所立，咸特广陵王。
王本以行失道，先帝所不用。
光内不自安。
郎有上书言： 周太王废太伯立王季，文王舍伯邑考立武王，唯在所宜，虽废长立少可也。
广陵王不可以承宗庙。
言合光意。
光以其书视丞相敞等，擢郎为九江太守，即日承皇太后诏，遣行大鸿胪事少府乐成、宗正德、光禄大夫吉、中郎将利汉迎昌邑王贺。
贺者，武帝孙，昌邑哀王子也。
translation: 
Later, whenever Shangguan Jie's party members spoke ill of Huo Guang, Emperor Zhao became angry and said: "The general is a loyal minister, entrusted by the late emperor to assist me. If anyone dares to slander him, he will be punished."
From then on, Shangguan Jie and others did not dare to say bad things anymore, so they conspired to have the eldest princess prepare a banquet for Huo Guang, preparing to ambush soldiers to kill him, and then take the opportunity to depose Emperor Zhao and install King Yan as emperor.
When the incident was discovered, Huo Guang executed Shangguan Jie, Shangguan An, Sang Hongyang, Ding Wairen and their families.
King Yan and Lord Gai also committed suicide.
Huo Guang's power shocked the whole country.
After Emperor Zhao came of age, he formally appointed Huo Guang to be in power. By the 13th year of Emperor Zhao's reign, the people's lives were abundant and abundant, and all ethnic minorities from all over the world had surrendered.
In the first year of Yuanping, Emperor Zhao died without an heir.
Among the six sons of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, only King Liu Xu of Guangling is still alive. The ministers discussed the candidate to be appointed, and everyone advocated the establishment of King Guangling.
King Guangling was originally not selected by the late emperor because of his immoral behavior.
Huo Guang felt uneasy inside.
A Lang official wrote: King Zhou deposed his uncle and established Wang Ji, King Wen abandoned Boyikao and established King Wu. As long as it is beneficial to the country, it is okay even to depose the eldest son and establish a younger son.
King Guangling could not inherit the ancestral temple and the state.
What he said coincided with Huo Guang's thoughts.
Huo Guang showed this memorial to Prime Minister Yang Chang and others, and promoted the official to the prefect of Jiujiang. On the same day, according to the empress dowager's edict, he sent Shaofu Lecheng, Zongzheng Liu De, Guanglu doctor Bingji, and Zhonglang general Lihan to meet the Changyi king Liu He.
Liu He was the grandson of Emperor Mowu and the son of King Ai of Changyi.

summary:
summary line 3: After Emperor Zhao died without an heir, the ministers initially considered King Liu Xu of Guangling, but Huo Guang opposed this due to the king's immoral character. Following a suggestion from a Lang official citing historical precedents, Huo Guang arranged for the installation of King Liu He of Changyi. However, Liu He soon began behaving lewdly and improperly. Huo Guang, troubled by this, consulted with Tian Yannian, who cited the precedent of Yi Yin deposing Taijia. Huo Guang gathered the ministers, and after Tian Yannian threatened those who hesitated with execution, they agreed to depose the king. Huo Guang reported to the Empress Dowager, who issued an edict. The ministers jointly impeached King Changyi for numerous offenses during his twenty-seven-day reign, including failing to observe mourning, engaging in debauchery, and issuing over 1,127 orders for various items. The Empress Dowager approved the deposition, and Huo Guang personally removed the imperial seal from King Changyi, who was sent back to his former residence.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
大司马、大将军光宿卫忠正，宣德明恩，守节乘谊，以安宗庙。
其以河北、东武阳益封光万七千户。
与故所食凡二万户。
赏赐前后黄金七千斤，钱六千万，杂缯三万匹，奴婢百七十人，马二千匹，甲第一区。
自昭帝时，光子禹及兄孙云皆中郎将，云弟山奉车都尉、侍中，邻胡、越兵。
光两女婿为东西宫卫尉，昆弟诸婿外孙皆奉朝请，为诸曹大夫、骑都尉，给事中。
党亲连体，根据于朝廷。
光自后元秉持万机，及上即位，乃归政。
上廉让不受，诸事皆先关白光，然后奏御天子。
光每朝见，上虚己敛容，礼下之已甚。
光秉政前后二十年，地节二年春病笃，车驾自临问光病，上为之涕泣。
光上书谢恩曰： 愿分国邑三千户，以封兄孙奉车都尉山为列侯，奉兄票骑将军去病祀。
事下丞相、御史，即日拜光子禹为右将军。
光薨，上及皇太后亲临光丧。
translation: 
Huo Guang, the great general of Sima, guards the court with loyalty and integrity, promotes morality and shows kindness, preserves integrity and upholds benevolence and righteousness, so as to stabilize the ancestral temple.
Seventeen thousand households in Hebei and Dongwuyang were granted to Huo Guang.
Including his previous fiefdom, there were a total of 20,000 households.
He was rewarded seven thousand catties of gold, sixty million in money, thirty thousand pieces of silk of various colors, one hundred and seventy slaves, two thousand horses, and a first-class residence.
From the time of Emperor Zhao, Huo Guang's son Huo Yu and Huo Guang's brother's grandson Huo Yun were already Zhonglang Generals. Huo Yun's younger brother Huo Shan served as Fengche Captain and Shizhong, and controlled the military power of Hu and Yue.
Huo Guang's two sons-in-law are the guards of the East and West Palaces respectively. The sons-in-law and grandsons of Huo Guang's brothers are eligible to participate in court meetings, serve as Cao officials, cavalry captains, and receive official positions in the affairs.
Factions and relatives were united and occupied the court in an intricate manner.
Huo Guang had been the prime minister of the government since the Hou Yuan Dynasty. He did not return the government until the emperor ascended the throne.
The emperor was humble and refused to accept it. He had to consult Huo Guang for instructions on all political matters before reporting them to the emperor.
Every time Huo Guang went to court to see him, the emperor was humble and serious, and treated him with great respect and courtesy.
Huo Guang was in power for twenty years. In the spring of the second year of Dijie, he became seriously ill. The emperor personally went to his home to see his condition and shed tears for him.
Huo Guang wrote a letter to express his gratitude and said: I would like to use the three thousand property of my feudal land to enfeoff my brother's grandson, Fengche Captain Huo Shan, as a lord, in order to worship my brother Hussar General Huo Qubing.
The emperor handed over the matter to the Prime Minister and Censor, and appointed Huo Guang's son Huo Yu as the right general on the same day.
After Huo Guang passed away, the emperor and the empress dowager personally went to Huo Guang's mourning hall to express their condolences.

summary:
summary line 4: Huo Guang then arranged for the installation of Emperor Wu's great-grandson, who was living among the people, as Emperor Xuan. For his services, Huo Guang received additional fiefdoms totaling 20,000 households, along with gold, money, silk, slaves, and horses. His family members held numerous important positions throughout the court. Huo Guang remained in power for twenty years until his death, after which he was buried with great honors at Maoling and given the title Xuanchenghou.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
谋令太后为博平君置酒，召丞相、平恩侯以下，使范明友、邓广汉承太后制引斩之，因废天子而立禹。
约定未发，云拜为玄菟太守，太中大夫任宣为代郡太守。
山又坐写秘书，显为上书献城西第，八马千匹，以赎山罪。
书报闻，会事发觉，云、山、明友自杀，显、禹、广汉等捕得。
禹要斩，显及诸女昆弟皆弃市。
唯独霍后废处昭台宫，与霍氏相连坐诛灭者数千家。
上乃下诏曰： 乃者东织室令史张赦使魏郡豪李竟报冠阳侯云谋为大逆，朕以大将军故，抑而不扬，冀其自新。
今大司马博陆侯禹与母宣成侯夫人显及从昆弟子冠阳侯云、乐平侯山诸姊妹婿谋为大逆，欲诖误百姓。
赖宗庙神灵，先发得，咸伏其辜，朕甚悼之。
诸为霍氏所诖误，事在丙申前，未发觉在吏者，皆赦除之。
男子张章先发觉，以语期门董忠，忠告在曹杨惲，惲告侍中金安上。
惲召见对状，后章上书以闻。
侍中史高与金安上建发其事，言无入霍氏禁闼，卒不得遂其谋，皆雠有功。
封章为博成侯，忠高昌侯，惲平通侯，安上都成侯，高乐陵侯。
初，霍氏奢侈，茂陵徐生曰： 霍氏必亡。
translation: 
They conspired to ask the Queen Mother to set up a banquet for Lord Boping, summon the prime minister and officials below Ping'enhou, and have Fan Mingyou and Deng Guanghan take these people out and behead them on the Queen Mother's order, taking the opportunity to depose the emperor and make Huo Yu the emperor.
Before the agreed plan was implemented, Huo Yun was appointed as the prefect of Xuantu, and Ren Xuan, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed as the prefect of Daijun.
Huo Shan also broke the law for copying the palace secretaries. Xian wrote a letter expressing his willingness to donate his mansion in the west of the city and a thousand horses to atone for Huo Shan's crime.
Emperor Xuan only approved it in his memorial. Just when their plot was discovered, Huo Yun, Huo Shan, and Fan Mingyou committed suicide, and Xian, Huo Yu, Deng Guanghan and others were captured.
Huo Yu was cut in half, and several of her daughters and brothers were executed.
Only Empress Huo was deposed and imprisoned in Zhaotai. Thousands of families were implicated in the Star Doctor and were convicted and executed to exterminate their clans.
Emperor Xuan then issued an edict saying: Not long ago, Shi Zhangshe, the commander of the Zhishi Office, instructed Li Jing, a wealthy family in Wei County, to reply to Guanyang Hou Huoyun and conspire to cause rebellion. Because of the general, I suppressed the matter and did not make it public, hoping that they could change Bai Xin.
Now the great Sima Bo, Lu Hou Huo Yu, his mother, Xuancheng Hou's wife Xian, and their cousin's sons, Guanyang Hou Huoyun, Leping Hou Huoshan, and their sisters' sons-in-law, are conspiring to harm the people.
Thanks to the blessing of the ancestors, they were discovered and captured in advance, and all of them were executed according to law. I am very sad about this matter.
All those who were implicated by the Huo family, if the incident occurred before Bingshen and had not yet discovered that the reporting officer was in custody, will be pardoned.
The man Zhang Zhang discovered the incident first and told Dong Zhong of Qimen. Dong Zhong reported it to Zuo Cao Yang, and Yang Pan reported it to Shizhong Jin Anshang.
Yang Fan was summoned to state the situation, and later Zhang Zhang wrote a report.
Shi Gao and Jin Anshang, the servants, suggested reporting the matter. If the Huo family was not allowed to enter the palace ban, the Huo family's conspiracy did not succeed. They were both equally meritorious.
Zhang Zhang was specially granted the title of Marquis of Bocheng, Dong Zhong was the Marquis of Gaolu, Yang Peng was the Marquis of Pingtong, Jin Anshang was the Marquis of Ducheng, and Shi Gao was the Marquis of Leling.
At the beginning, the Huo family lived a luxurious life, and Xu Sheng of Maoling said: The Huo family will definitely perish.

summary:
summary line 5: After Huo Guang's death, his wife Xian and their sons Huo Yu, Huo Yun, and Huo Shan became increasingly arrogant and extravagant. Xian had previously poisoned Empress Xu to install her daughter as empress, a secret that Huo Guang had concealed. As Emperor Xuan gradually reduced the Huo family's power, they grew fearful and plotted rebellion, planning to depose the emperor and install Huo Yu. The conspiracy was discovered, leading to Huo Yun, Huo Shan, and Fan Mingyou committing suicide, while Xian, Huo Yu, and others were executed. The Huo clan was exterminated, and Empress Huo was deposed.

Chunk 33: 
original: 
邯以纲纪国体，亡所阿私，忠孝尤著，益封千户。
更封长信少府涉子右曹汤为都成侯。
汤受封日，不敢还归家，以明为人后之谊。
益封为后，莽复用钦弟遵，封侯，历九卿位。
赞曰：霍光以结发内侍，起于阶闼之间，确然秉志，谊形于主。
受襁褓之托，任汉室之寄，当庙堂，拥幼君，摧燕王，仆上官，因权制敌，以成其忠。
处废置之际，临大节而不可夺，遂匡国家，安社稷。
拥昭立宣，光为师保，虽周公、阿衡，何以加此！
然光不学亡术，暗于大理，阴妻邪谋，立女为后，湛溺淫溢之欲，以增颠覆之祸，死财三年，宗族诛夷，哀哉！
昔霍叔封于晋，晋即河东，光岂其苗裔乎！
金日磾夷狄亡国，羁虏汉庭，而以笃敬寤主，忠信自著，勒功上将，传国后嗣，世名忠孝，七世内侍，何其盛也！
本以休屠作金人为祭天主，故因赐姓金氏云。
translation: 
Zhen Han was granted the title of "Thousand Households of the Imperial City" because he upheld the state system without flattery or selfishness, and had outstanding loyalty and filial piety.
He also granted Youcao Jintang, the son of Jin She, the Shaofu governor of Changxin, the title of Marquis of Ducheng.
On the day when Jintang was enshrined, he did not dare to return home to show the meaning of being a human being.
After the title was granted, Wang Mang appointed Jin Qin's younger brother Jin Zun. He was granted the title of Marquis, and his position reached the rank of Jiuqing.
The praise said: Huo Guang has served the emperor since he was a child. He rose up in the palace. His firm ambition and moral deeds were appreciated by the emperor.
Later, he accepted the entrustment of assisting the young master and shouldered the hopes of the Han Dynasty. He presided over the court, supported the young monarch, destroyed King Yan's rebellion, thwarted Shangguan Jie's conspiracy, and relied on power to subdue the enemy, which achieved his loyalty.
At the juncture of the emperor's dethronement and the great festival, but his ambition remained unchanged, he was able to rectify the country and stabilize the country.
Supported Emperor Zhao, established Emperor Xuan, and Huo Guang served as the guardian. Even Zhou Gong and A Heng could not surpass Huo Guang!
However, Huo Guang was ignorant and ignorant of Dharma. He concealed his wife's treacherous plot and made his daughter the queen. He indulged in his unsatisfied desire, which added to the disaster of destruction. Only three years after his death, the entire clan was wiped out. How sad!
In the past, Uncle Huo had his kingdom in Jin, which is east of Hedong. Is Huo Guang his descendant?
Jin Rixi was a member of a minority group. He was imprisoned as a prisoner in the Han court after the fall of the country. With his piety and respect, he impressed the emperor. He was known for his loyalty and trustworthiness. He was named a general for his meritorious service and passed the title to his descendants. He was famous for his loyalty and filial piety for generations. He was a chamberlain for seven generations. What a prosperity this was!
Originally, Xiutu was given the surname Jin because he made a golden man to worship the gods.

summary:
summary line 6: Jin Rixi, originally a Xiongnu prince, was captured as a slave after his father King Xiutu was killed. He served as a horse keeper but caught Emperor Wu's attention through his dignified bearing and honest answers. He became a trusted attendant, known for his loyalty and filial piety. He killed his own son for improper behavior with palace servants and later helped thwart a rebellion by Mang Heluo. When Emperor Wu appointed regents, Jin Rixi served as Huo Guang's deputy, refusing a marquisate due to Emperor Zhao's youth. His descendants continued serving the Han court for seven generations, maintaining a reputation for loyalty and filial piety.

