Chunk 0: 
original: 
霍光字子孟，票骑将军去病弟也。
父中孺，河东平阳人也，以县吏给事平阳侯家，与侍者卫少皃私通而生去病。
中孺吏毕归家，娶妇生光，因绝不相闻。
久之，少皃女弟子夫得幸于武帝，立为皇后，去病以皇后姊子贵幸。
既壮大，乃自知父为霍中孺，未及求问。
会为票骑将军击匈奴，道出河东，河东太守郊迎，负弩矢先驱，至平阳传舍，遣吏迎霍中孺。
中孺趋入拜谒，将军迎拜，因跪曰： 去病不早自知为大人遗体也。
中孺扶报叩头，曰： 老臣得托命将军，此天力也。
去病大为中孺买田宅、奴婢而去。
还，复过焉，乃将光西至长安，时年十余岁，任光为郎，稍迁诸曹、侍中。
translation: 
Huo Guang, courtesy name Zimeng, was the younger brother of Huo Qubing, the general of the Hussars.
His father, Zhong Ru, was from Pingyang, Hedong Province. He served in the Pingyang Hou family as a county official and had an affair with his maid Wei Shaoer and gave birth to Huo Qubing.
After Zhongru completed his errand, he returned home and married again and gave birth to Huo Guang. He broke off the relationship with Wei Shaoer and had no contact with him.
After some time, the boy's younger sister Zifu became favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and was made the queen. Huo Qubing had a distinguished status and was favored by the emperor because he was the son of the queen's sister.
After Huo Qubing grew up, he learned that his father was Huo Zhongru, but he never had time to visit him.
It happened that Huo Qubing was appointed as a hussar general and went to attack the Xiongnu. He passed by Hedong. The governor of Hedong went to the outskirts of the city to greet him. He led the way with a bow and arrow on his back and rested at the reception area of ​​Hou Jiabao in Pingyang.
Huo Qubing sent a small official to invite Huo Zhongru to meet him. Zhongru hurried over and greeted him respectfully. Huo Qubing stepped forward to greet him and bowed down. He knelt down and said, "Qubing didn't know that I was your flesh and blood."
The middle child kowtowed to the ground and said, "This veteran can entrust his destiny to the general. This is God's help."
Qubing bought a large number of fields, houses, and slaves for Zhongru and left.
When returning to the army, Huo Qubing passed by Hedong again, so he took Huo Guang to Chang'an. Huo Guang was only ten years old at the time, so he appointed Huo Guang as Lang, and soon he was promoted to the minister of all Cao Cao.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
去病死后，光为奉车都尉、光禄大夫，出则奉车，入侍左右，出入禁闼二十余年，小心谨慎，未尝有过，甚见亲信。
征和二年，卫太子为江充所败，而燕王旦、广陵王胥皆多过失。
是时，上年老，宠姬钩弋赵婕妤有男，上心欲以为嗣，命大臣辅之。
察群臣唯光任大重，可属社稷。
上乃使黄门画者画周公负成王朝诸侯以赐光。
后元二年春，上游五柞宫，病笃，光涕泣问曰： 如有不讳，谁当嗣者？
上曰： 君未谕前画意邪？
立少子，君行周公之事。
光顿首让曰： 臣不如金日磾。
日磾亦曰： 臣外国人，不如光。
上以光为大司马大将军，日磾为车骑将军，及太仆上官桀为左将军，搜粟都尉桑弘羊为御史大夫，皆拜卧内床下，受遗诏辅少主。
明日，武帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝昭皇帝。
帝年八岁，政事一决于光。
先是，后元元年，侍中仆射莽何罗与弟重合侯通谋为逆，时，光与金日磾、上官桀等共诛之，功未录。
武帝病，封玺书曰： 帝崩发书以从事。
遗诏封金日磾为秺侯，上官桀为安阳侯，光为博陆侯，皆以前捕反者功封。
时，卫尉王莽子男忽侍中，扬语曰： 帝崩，忽常在左右，安得遗诏封三子事！
translation: 
After Qu Bing's death, Huo Guang was granted the title of Guanglu, the Commander-in-Chief of the Fengcha. He accompanied the emperor as a chariot when traveling, and served around him in the palace. He had been in and out of the forbidden palace for more than 20 years. He had always been cautious and made no mistakes. He was very close and trusted by the emperor.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Prince Wei was framed and defeated by Jiang Chong. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling both made many mistakes.
At this time, the emperor was old, and his beloved concubine Gou Yi and Zhao Jieyu gave birth to a boy. The emperor planned to pass the throne to him and ordered ministers to assist him.
The emperor observed that among the ministers, only Huo Guang could take on the important task of assisting the country.
The emperor then asked the court painter to draw a picture of Duke Zhou carrying King Cheng on his back to receive congratulations from the princes, and gave it to Huo Guang.
In the spring of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, the emperor traveled to Wuzha Palace and became very ill. Huo Guang asked in tears: If something happens to the emperor, who will succeed him?
The emperor said: Don't you still understand the meaning of the painting I gave you last time?
When you establish a young son as emperor, you should act like the Duke of Zhou assisting the king.
Huo Guang kowtowed and said humbly: I am not as good as Jin Rixi.
Jin Rixi also said: I am a foreigner, not as good as Huo Guang.
The emperor then appointed Huo Guang as the Grand Sima General, Jin Rixi as the Chariot and Cavalry General, Shangguan Jie, the imperial servant, as the General of the Left, and Sang Hongyang, the captain of the Sosu Su Army, as the Imperial Censor. They all kowtowed before the bed in the emperor's bedroom and accepted their duties, accepting orders to assist the young monarch.
The next day, Emperor Wu died, and the prince inherited the throne and was called Emperor Xiaozhao.
The emperor was only eight years old, and Huo Guang made all political decisions.
Before this, in the first year of Hou, the servant Shemang Heluo and his younger brother Hou Mangtong conspired to rebel. At that time, Huo Guang, Jin Rixi, Shangguan Jie and others killed these rebels, and their achievements were not recorded and rewarded.
After Emperor Wu fell ill, he sealed the seal and said: After I die, I will open the seal and follow it.
An imperial edict was sent to confer Jin Rixi as the Marquis of Jie, Shangguan Jie as the Marquis of Anyang, and Huo Guang as the Marquis of Bolu. They were all awarded according to their achievements in hunting down rebels in the past.
At that time, Wang Hu, the son of Weiwei Wang Mang, was serving as a servant. He threatened outside: "When the emperor died, I was always by his side. How could I send Shao to seal them?"


Chunk 2: 
original: 
群儿自相贵耳。
光闻之，切让王莽，莽鸩杀忽。
光为人沉静详审，长财七尺三寸，白皙，疏眉目，美须髯。
每出入下殿门，止进有常处，郎仆射窃识视之，不失尺寸，其资性端正如此。
初辅幼主，政自己出，天下想闻其风采。
殿中尝有怪，一夜群臣相惊，光召尚符玺郎，郎不肯授光。
光欲夺之，郎按剑曰： 臣头可得，玺不可得也！
光甚谊之。
明日，诏增此郎秩二等。
众庶莫不多光。
光与左将军桀结婚相亲，光长女为桀子安妻。
有女年与帝相配，桀因帝姊鄂邑盖主内安女后宫为婕妤，数月立为皇后。
父安为票骑将军，封桑乐侯。
光时休沐出，桀辄入代光决事。
translation: 
These people are promoting themselves.
After Huo Guang heard these words, he severely blamed Wang Mang, and Wang Mang killed Wang Hu with poisoned wine.
Huo Guang has a calm personality and is thoughtful. He is only seven feet three inches tall. He has fair skin, sparse eyebrows and bright eyes, and a beautiful beard and beard.
Whenever he enters or exits the palace gate, he has a fixed position when moving forward and stopping. Lang Pushe secretly made a mark to observe, and found that there was no difference in his qualifications.
When Huo Guang was assisting his young master, he issued government orders himself, and everyone in the world admired his grace.
There had been ghosts in the palace, and all the officials were in panic all night. Huo Guang summoned the official who was in charge of the seal, but the official refused to give the seal to Huo Guang.
Huo Guang wanted to seize the seal, but Lang Guan pressed his sword and said: My head can be obtained, but the seal cannot be obtained by you!
Huo Guang admired Lang Guan's behavior.
The next day, he went to Shao to raise the rank of the Langguan by two levels.
Everyone applauded Huo Guang's behavior.
Huo Guang and Shangguan Jie, the general of the left, were sons and daughters and had a close relationship. Huo Guang's eldest daughter married Shangguan Jie's son Shangguan An.
Shangguan An had a daughter who was the same age as Emperor Zhao, so Shangguan Jie passed! Emperor Zhao's sister Eyi Gaizhu took the daughter of Shangxuanshi into the harem as Jieyu, and she was established as queen a few months later.
The queen's father, Shangxuanzhou, was appointed as a hussar general and named Sanglehou.
Huo Guang sometimes went out of the palace on vacation, and Shangguan Jie would come into the palace to handle political affairs on Huo Guang's behalf.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
桀父子既尊盛，而德长公主。
公主内行不修，近幸河间丁外人。
桀、安欲为外人求封，幸依国家故事以列侯尚公主者，光不许。
又为外人求光禄大夫，欲令得召见，又不许。
长主大以是怨光。
而桀、安数为外人求官爵弗能得，亦惭。
自先帝时，桀已为九卿，位在光右。及父子并为将军，有椒房中宫之重，皇后亲安女，光乃其外祖，而顾专制朝事，繇是与光争权。
燕王旦自以昭帝兄，常怀怨望。
及御史大夫桑弘羊建造酒榷、盐铁，为国兴利，伐其功，欲为子弟得官，亦怨恨光。
于是盖主、上官桀、安及弘羊皆与燕王旦通谋，诈令人为燕王上书，言： 光出都肄郎羽林，道上称跸，太官先置。
又引： 苏武前使匈奴，拘留二十年不降，还乃为典属国，而大将军长史敞亡功为搜粟都尉，又擅调益莫府校尉。
光专权自恣，疑有非常。
translation: 
After Shangguan Jie and his son became powerful, they were very grateful to the elder.
The eldest princess has no moral integrity and gets close to Ding, a foreigner who dotes on Hewen.
Shangguan Ji and Shangguan An planned to apply for the title of marquis on behalf of Ding, hoping to follow the country's previous practice of only marquises marrying princesses, but Huo Guang did not agree.
They also asked for the position of Guanglu doctor for Ding foreigners in order to be summoned by Emperor Zhao, but they were rejected by Huo Guang again.
The eldest princess was very resentful towards Huo Guang.
Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An also felt ashamed because they had failed to obtain titles for Ding strangers several times.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Shangguan Jie was already among the nine ministers, and his official position was above Huo Guang. When Shangguan and his son were both generals, they had an important relationship with the queen in the palace. The queen was Shangguan An's biological daughter, and Huo Guang was just her grandfather. Instead, he took charge of the government alone. Therefore, Shangguan and his son competed with Huo Guang for power.
King Liu Dan of Yan thought he was Emperor Zhao's brother, but he did not inherit the throne, so he often harbored resentment.
In addition, Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, suggested setting up a liquor monopoly and salt and iron official management system, which increased the country's wealth. Sang Hongyang took credit for it and planned to get official positions for his children, but failed, so he resented Huo Guang.
So Eyi Gaizhu, Shangguan Jie, Shangguan An and Sang Hongyang conspired with the King of Yan Liu Dan, pretending to have someone write a letter on behalf of the King of Yan, saying: Huo Guang went out of the city to practice Lang Guan and Yu Lin. He set up a dignified manner on the road like an emperor when traveling, and also asked the eunuchs to prepare meals in advance.
Also, Su Wu was sent as an envoy to the Huns, and was detained for twenty years without surrendering. After returning, he was only made a vassal state, while Yang Chang, the chief general of the general, had no merit, but became the captain of Sosu. Huo Guang also transferred in without authorization to increase the number of captains in his shogunate.
Huo Guang is arrogant in his power, I'm afraid he has bad intentions.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣旦愿归符玺，入宿卫，察奸臣变。
候司光出沐日奏之。
桀欲从中下其事，桑弘羊当与诸大臣共执退光。
书奏，帝不肯下。
明旦，光闻之，止画室中不入。
上问： 大将军安在？
左将军桀时曰： 以燕王告其罪，故不敢入。
有诏召大将军。
光入，免冠顿首谢，上曰： 将军冠。朕知是书诈也，将军亡罪。
光曰： 陛下何以知之？
上曰： 将军之广明都郎，属耳；调校尉以来未能十日，燕王何以得知之？
且将军为非，不须校尉。
是时，帝年十四，尚书左右皆惊，而上书者果亡，捕之甚急，桀等惧，白上小事不足遂，上不听。
translation: 
The minister Liu Dan is willing to return the Fujie Seal of King Yan and serve as a guard in the court to investigate the conspiracy of the treacherous minister.
When Huo Guang was on leave from the palace, he took the opportunity to present this book.
Shangguan Jie planned to report the matter directly from the palace, so Sang Hongyang and other ministers arrested Huo Guang and dismissed him from his post.
After the memorial was handed in, Emperor Zhao kept the memorial and refused to issue it.
The next morning, Huo Guang heard about this and stayed in the studio in front of the palace without going in to worship.
The emperor asked where the general was?
Shangguan Jie, the general of the left, replied: Because King Yan reported his crime, he did not dare to come in.
The emperor issued an edict to summon the general.
After Huo Guang came in, he took off his official hat and kowtowed to apologize. The emperor said: General, please put on your hat. I know that this memorial is fake and the general is not guilty.
Huo Guang asked: How does your majesty know that I am not guilty?
The emperor said: "The general arrived in Guangming, and the training of lieutenants was only a recent matter. It has only been ten days since the selection of lieutenants. How did King Yan know these things?"
Besides, if a general wants to do something illegal, he doesn't need a lieutenant.
At this time, Emperor Zhao was only fourteen years old. The minister and the ministers around him were surprised. The person who submitted the letter actually escaped, and the government began an urgent search. Shangguan Jie and others were frightened, so they told the emperor that this was just a trivial matter and not worth pursuing. The emperor did not listen.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
后桀党有谮光者，上辄怒曰： 大将军忠臣，先帝所属以辅朕身，敢有毁者坐之。
自是桀等不敢复言，乃谋令长公主置酒请光，伏兵格杀之，因废帝，迎立燕王为天子。
事发觉，光尽诛桀、安、弘羊、外人宗族。
燕王、盖主皆自杀。
光威震海内。
昭帝既冠，遂委任光，讫十三年，百姓充实，四夷宾服。
元平元年，昭帝崩，亡嗣。
武帝六男独有广陵王胥在，群臣议所立，咸特广陵王。
王本以行失道，先帝所不用。
光内不自安。
郎有上书言： 周太王废太伯立王季，文王舍伯邑考立武王，唯在所宜，虽废长立少可也。
广陵王不可以承宗庙。
言合光意。
光以其书视丞相敞等，擢郎为九江太守，即日承皇太后诏，遣行大鸿胪事少府乐成、宗正德、光禄大夫吉、中郎将利汉迎昌邑王贺。
贺者，武帝孙，昌邑哀王子也。
translation: 
Later, whenever Shangguan Jie's party members spoke ill of Huo Guang, Emperor Zhao became angry and said: "The general is a loyal minister, entrusted by the late emperor to assist me. If anyone dares to slander him, he will be punished."
From then on, Shangguan Jie and others did not dare to say bad things anymore, so they conspired to have the eldest princess prepare a banquet for Huo Guang, preparing to ambush soldiers to kill him, and then take the opportunity to depose Emperor Zhao and install King Yan as emperor.
When the incident was discovered, Huo Guang executed Shangguan Jie, Shangguan An, Sang Hongyang, Ding Wairen and their families.
King Yan and Lord Gai also committed suicide.
Huo Guang's power shocked the whole country.
After Emperor Zhao came of age, he formally appointed Huo Guang to be in power. By the 13th year of Emperor Zhao's reign, the people's lives were abundant and abundant, and all ethnic minorities from all over the world had surrendered.
In the first year of Yuanping, Emperor Zhao died without an heir.
Among the six sons of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, only King Liu Xu of Guangling is still alive. The ministers discussed the candidate to be appointed, and everyone advocated the establishment of King Guangling.
King Guangling was originally not selected by the late emperor because of his immoral behavior.
Huo Guang felt uneasy inside.
A Lang official wrote: King Zhou deposed his uncle and established Wang Ji, King Wen abandoned Boyikao and established King Wu. As long as it is beneficial to the country, it is okay even to depose the eldest son and establish a younger son.
King Guangling could not inherit the ancestral temple and the state.
What he said coincided with Huo Guang's thoughts.
Huo Guang showed this memorial to Prime Minister Yang Chang and others, and promoted the official to the prefect of Jiujiang. On the same day, according to the empress dowager's edict, he sent Shaofu Lecheng, Zongzheng Liu De, Guanglu doctor Bingji, and Zhonglang general Lihan to meet the Changyi king Liu He.
Liu He was the grandson of Emperor Mowu and the son of King Ai of Changyi.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
既至，即位，行淫乱。
光忧懑，独以问所亲故吏大司农田延年。
延年曰： 将军为国柱石，审此人不可，何不建白太后，更选贤而立之？
光曰： 今欲如是，于古尝有此不？
延年曰： 伊尹相殷，废太甲以安宗庙，后世称其忠。
将军若能行此，亦汉之伊尹也。
光乃引延年给事中，阴与车骑将军张安世图计，遂召丞相、御史、将军、列侯、中二千石、大夫、博士会议未央宫。
光曰： 昌邑王行昏乱，恐危社稷，如何？
群臣皆惊鄂失色，莫敢发言，但唯唯而已。
田延年前，离席按剑，曰： 先帝属将军以幼孤，寄将军以天下，以将军忠贤能安刘氏也。
今群下鼎沸，社稷将倾，且汉之传谥常为孝者，以长有天下，令宗庙血食也。
如令汉家绝祀，将军虽死，何面目见先帝于地下乎？
今日之议，不得旋踵。群臣后应者，臣请剑斩之。
translation: 
After he arrived in the palace and ascended to the throne of God, he soon began to act lewdly.
Huo Guang was worried and angry, so he went to ask his close confidant, Chief Farming Yannian, about the matter alone.
Tian Yannian said: As the pillar of the country, since the general found that this person cannot be entrusted to the country, why not report it to the Queen Mother and choose another worthy person to make him emperor?
Huo Guang said: I want to do this too. I wonder if there is any precedent for this in ancient times?
Tian Yannian replied: When Yi Yin became the prime minister of the Yin Dynasty, he deposed Taijia to stabilize the country. Later generations praised his loyalty.
If a general could do the same, he would be Yi Yin of the Han Dynasty.
Huo Guang introduced Tian Yannian to the minister, and secretly planned with the cavalry general Zhang Anshi, so he summoned the prime minister, censor, generals, princes, Zhongerqianshi, doctors, doctors, etc. to discuss the matter together.
Huo Guang said: "The king of Changyi behaves in a cowardly and promiscuous manner, which may endanger the country. What do you think we should do?"
All the ministers were frightened and did not dare to speak. They were only obedient.
Tian Yannian left his seat and came forward, holding his sword in his hand and said: The late emperor entrusted the young orphan to the general and entrusted the world to the general because the general was loyal and capable and could stabilize the Liu family's world.
Now the ministers and the people are in an uproar, and the country is about to overthrow. Moreover, the emperors of the Han Dynasty often used the word "filial piety" in their honorifics, in order to control the world for a long time and allow the ancestral temple to enjoy sacrifices forever.
Now that the Han family is about to cut off its incense, even if the general is willing to die to apologize, how can he have the dignity to go to Jiuquan to see the late emperor? Today's discussion should be resolved immediately.
If any of the ministers delays answering, I request that he be beheaded with this sword.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
光谢曰： 九卿责光是也。
天下匈匈不安，光当受难。
于是议者皆叩头，曰： 万姓之命在于将军，唯大将军令。
光即与群臣俱见白太后，具陈昌邑王不可以承宗庙状。
皇太后乃车驾幸未央承明殿，诏诸禁门毋内昌邑群臣。
王入朝太后还，乘辇欲归温室，中黄门宦者各持门扇，王入，门闭，昌邑群臣不得入。
王曰： 何为？
大将军跪曰： 有皇太后诏，毋内昌邑群臣。
王曰： 徐之，何乃惊人如是！
光使尽驱出昌邑群臣，置金马门外。
车骑将军安世将羽林骑收缚二百余人，皆送廷尉诏狱。
令故昭帝侍中中臣侍守王。
光敕左右： 谨宿卫，卒有物故自裁，令我负天下，有杀主名。
translation: 
Huo Guang apologized and said: Jiu Qing is right to blame me.
The world is in turmoil and I should be punished.
So the ministers who participated in the discussion kowtowed and said: "The lives of all the people are tied to the general. We are willing to obey the general's instructions."
Huo Guang immediately went to see the Queen Mother with his ministers and stated in detail the situation that King Changyi could not inherit the throne.
The empress dowager then drove to Weiyang Chengming Palace and ordered the guards of each palace not to let the officials of King Changyi enter the palace.
King Changyi went to the palace to meet the Queen Mother and returned, preparing to take a chariot back to the greenhouse. The eunuchs of the Huangmen in the palace each held a door leaf. After King Changyi entered, they closed the palace door, so that the officials of King Changyi could not enter.
The king of Changyi asked: What is this?
The general knelt down and said: The empress dowager has an edict not to allow the officials of King Changyi to come in.
King Changyi said: Slow down, why do you have to make it so scary!
Huo Guang sent people to expel all the officials of King Changyi from the palace and gathered them outside the Golden Horse Gate.
The cavalry general Zhang Anshi led the Yulin knights to arrest and tie up more than 200 people, and handed them over to Tingwei to be imprisoned in the prison specified by the imperial edict.
He also ordered the former Zhaozhong Shizhong and Zhongchangshi to guard the king of Changyi.
Huo Guang warned them: You must be careful of the guards on duty. If King Changyi dies suddenly or commits suicide, I will be blamed for killing the king.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
王尚未自知当废，谓左右： 我故群臣从官安得罪，而大将军尽系之乎？
顷之，有太后诏召王，王闻召，意恐，乃曰： 我安得罪而召我哉！ 太后被珠襦，盛服坐武帐中，侍御数百人皆持兵，其门武士陛戟，陈列殿下。
群臣以次上殿，召昌邑王伏前听诏。
光与群臣连名奏王，尚书令读奏曰：
丞相臣敞、大司马大将军臣光、车骑将军臣安世、度辽将军臣明友、前将军臣增、后将军臣充国、御史大夫臣谊、宜春侯臣谭、当涂侯臣圣、随桃侯臣昌乐、杜侯臣屠耆堂、太仆臣延年，太常臣昌、大司农臣延年、宗正臣德、少府臣乐成、廷尉臣光，执金吾臣延寿、大鸿胪臣贤、左冯翊臣广明、右扶风臣德、长信少府臣嘉、典属国臣武、京辅都尉臣广汉、司隶校尉臣辟兵、诸吏文学光禄大夫臣迁、臣畸、臣吉、臣赐、臣管、臣胜、臣梁、臣长幸、臣夏侯胜、太中大夫臣德、臣卬昧死言皇太后陛下：臣敞等顿首死罪。
translation: 
The king of Changyi did not know that he was about to be deposed at this time, so he said to the people around him: What are the crimes of my former ministers and entourage, and the general imprisoned them all.
Soon, the Queen Mother issued an edict to summon the King of Changyi. When the king of Changyi heard that he was about to be summoned, he began to be afraid, so he said: "What crime have I committed? I want to summon the queen mother of our factory. She is wearing a short coat embellished with pearls and dressed in fine clothes. She is sitting in a curtain decorated with weapons. Hundreds of palace guards are holding weapons, and Qimen warriors are guarding the steps with halberds. They are all lined up with His Highness."
The ministers walked into the palace in order and asked the king of Changyi to lie in front and listen to the edict.
Huo Guang and other ministers jointly signed a memorial to impeach the king of Changyi. The minister read out the memorial and said:
Your Majesty the Prime Minister Yang Chang, Your Majesty the Sima General Huo Guang, Your Majesty the Chariot and Cavalry General Zhang Anshi, Your Majesty the General Fan Mingyou of the Liao Dynasty, Your Majesty the Former General Han Zeng, Your Majesty the Later General Tong Chongguo, Your Majesty the Censor Cai Yi, Your Majesty the Marquis of Yichun Wang Tan, Dang Tuhou Wei Sheng, Chen followed Taohou to Changle, Chen Duhou Fulu Tuqitang, Chen Taipu Du Yannian, Chen Taichang Suchang, Chen Dasi Nanfang Yannian, Chen Zongzheng Liu De, Chen Shaofu Shi Lecheng, Chen Tingwei Li Guang, Chen Zhijin I am Li Yanshou, I am Da Honglu Wei Xian, I am on the left Feng Yi Tian Guangming, I am on the right Fufeng Zhou De, I am Chang Xin Shaofu Fu Jia, I am Dian Su Wu, I am Jing Fu Duwei Zhao Guanghan, I am Si Lixiao Wei Pi Bing, and I am Wen Guang Dr. Lu Wang Qian, Chen Song Wei, Chen Bingji, Chen Ci, Chen Guan, Chen Sheng, Chen Liang, Chen Changxing, Chen Xia Housheng, Chen Taizhong Dafu De, and Chen Tangyin reported to Her Majesty the Empress Dowager: Chen Yang Chang and others were sentenced to death.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
天子所以永保宗庙总一海内者，以慈孝、礼谊、赏罚为本。
孝昭皇帝早弃天下，亡嗣，臣敞等议，礼曰 为人后者为之子也 ，昌邑王宜嗣后，遣宗正、大鸿胪、光禄大夫奉节使征昌邑王典丧。
服斩縗，亡悲哀之心，废礼谊，居道上不素食，使从官略女子载衣车，内所居传舍。
始至谒见，立为皇太子，常私买鸡豚以食。
受皇帝信玺、行玺大行前，就次发玺不封。
从官更持节，引内昌邑从官驺宰官奴二百余人，常与居禁闼内敖戏。
自之符玺取节十六，朝暮临，令从官更持节从。
为书曰： 皇帝问侍中君卿：使中御府令高昌奉黄金千斤，赐君卿取十妻。
大行在前殿，发乐府乐器，引内昌邑乐人，击鼓歌吹作俳倡。
会下还，上前殿，击钟磬，召内泰壹宗庙乐人辇道牟首，鼓吹歌舞，悉奏众乐。
发长安厨三太牢具祠阁室中，祀已，与从官饮啖。
驾法驾，皮轩鸾旗，驱驰北官、桂宫，弄彘斗虎。
召皇太后御小马车，使官奴骑乘，游戏掖庭中。
与孝昭皇帝宫人蒙等淫乱，诏掖庭令敢泄言要斩。
太后曰： 止！
translation: 
The reason why the emperor was able to maintain the ancestral temple and control the world for a long time was because he could take kindness, filial piety, etiquette and justice, and clear distinction between rewards and punishments as the foundation.
Emperor Xiaozhao passed away prematurely and had no heir. His minister Yang Chang and others discussed it and concluded that according to the rites, "the person who is a person's heir is his son" and the King of Changyi was suitable to be the heir. So they sent Zongzheng, Dahonglu, Guanglu and other officials to serve as envoys on Fu Jie to recruit the King of Changyi to preside over the funeral of Emperor Zhao.
After the king of Changyi put on mourning clothes, he showed no sign of mourning. He also ignored etiquette and righteousness. He refused to eat vegetarian food on the road. He sent his officials to rob women and took them to the post house where he lived in a covered car.
From the time he first arrived in the capital to see the Queen Mother and was established as the crown prince, he often bought chickens and pigs to eat in private.
After receiving the letter seal and travel seal in front of Emperor Zhao's coffin, he opened the seal at the place of mourning and did not seal it again.
The accompanying officials took the talismans and led more than 200 servants, horse officials, and official slaves of King Lu Yi into the palace, and often played games with them in the forbidden palace.
He personally went to the place where the talisman seal was kept and took out the sixteen talismans. When he went to the coffin in the morning and evening to cry and offer sacrifices, he asked the accompanying officials to take turns holding the talismans and follow him.
He also wrote a letter saying: The emperor greets his minister Junqing: He sent Gao Chang, the chief of the imperial palace, to send a thousand catties of gold to Junqing and give him ten wives.
Emperor Xiaozhao's coffin was still in the front hall, so he asked people to take out the Yuefu instruments and bring musicians from Changyi State into the palace to play drums, sing, play instruments, and act as actors.
After the coffin was buried and returned, they went to the front hall to beat the bells and chimes. They also led the musicians from the Taiyi Ancestral Temple to the Moushou along the chariot road, where they beat drums, played music, sang and danced, and played various kinds of music.
Three pairs of Tailao offerings were taken out from Chang'an's kitchen and placed in the cabinet for sacrifice. After the sacrifice, they ate and drank with the accompanying officials.
He drove the emperor's carriage and horses, which were covered with tiger skins and hung with Luan flags, and drove to Beigong and Guigong, chasing wild boars and fighting tigers.
He also summoned the empress dowager's small carriage and asked the official slaves to ride on it. They had fun and entertainment in the Yeting where the concubines lived.
He also committed adultery with Emperor Xiaozhao's court servant Meng et al., and issued an edict to Ye Ting that anyone who dared to leak rumors would be punished by having his waist cut in half.
The Queen Mother said: Stop!


Chunk 10: 
original: 
为人臣子当悖乱如是邪！
王离席伏。
尚书令复读曰：
取诸侯王、列侯、二千石绶及墨缓、黄绶以并佩昌邑郎官者免奴。
变易节上黄旄以赤。
发御府金钱、刀剑、玉器、采缯、赏赐所与游戏者。
与从官官奴夜饮，湛沔于酒。
诏太官上乘舆食如故。
食监奏未释服未可御故食，复诏太官趣具，无关食盐。
太官不敢具，即使从官出买鸡豚，诏殿门内，以为常。
独夜设九宾温室，延见姊夫昌邑关内侯。
祖宗庙祠未举，为玺书使使者持节，以三太牢祠昌邑哀王园庙，称嗣子皇帝。
受玺以来二十七日，使者旁午，持节诏诸官署征发，凡一千一百二十七事。
translation: 
How can a minister be so ignorant and presumptuous!
King Changyi left his seat and fell on the ground.
Shangshu Ling read again:
The king of Changyi took out the ribbons of the princes, princes, two thousand stones, as well as black and yellow ribbons and gave them to the officials of Changyi State to wear them, so that they would not be regarded as good friends.
Change the yellow color on the talisman to red.
Give gold coins, swords, jades, and colorful silks and satins from the imperial palace to those who play and entertain together.
The officials who accompanied him and the slaves who had joined the government gathered together all night and indulged in wine.
Xia Shao asked the eunuch to deliver the emperor's usual meals.
The Food Supervisor reported that no ordinary meals could be eaten without taking off the mourning clothes, so he issued an edict to the eunuchs to prepare them quickly and not to pass by the Food Supervisor.
The eunuch did not dare to prepare, so he sent his courtiers to buy pigs and pigs outside the palace, and issued an edict to the palace guards to let them go, as a routine.
He set up a ceremony for nine guests in the greenhouse alone at night, and invited his brother-in-law, the Marquis of Guannei in Changyi, to meet him.
Before the memorial ceremony for the ancestors and clans was held, he sent an envoy with the seal to hold the talisman and use three sets of Tailao to worship the ancestors in the cemetery of King Ai of Changyi. He called himself the heir emperor.
In the twenty-seven days since receiving the emperor's seal, envoys have been coming and going continuously, holding talismans and issuing Shao orders to various government offices to request items, a total of 1,127 times.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
文学、光禄大夫夏侯胜等及侍中傅嘉数进谏以过失，使人簿责胜，缚嘉系狱。
荒淫迷惑，失帝王礼谊，乱汉制度。
臣敞等数进谏，不变更，日以益甚，恐危社稷，天下不安。
臣敞等谨与博士臣霸、臣隽舍、臣德、臣虞舍、臣射、臣仓议，皆曰： 高皇帝建功业为汉太祖，孝文皇帝慈仁节俭为太宗，今陛下嗣孝昭皇帝后，行淫辟不轨。
《诗》云： 籍曰未知，亦既抱子。 五辟之属，莫大不孝。
周襄王不能事母，《春秋》曰 天王出居于郑 ，繇不孝出之，绝之于天下也。
宗庙重于君，陛下未见命高庙，不可以承天序，奉祖宗庙，子万姓，当废。
臣请有司御史大夫臣谊、宗正臣德、太常臣昌与太祝以一太牢具，告祠高庙。
臣敞等昧死以闻。
translation: 
Literary Guanglu doctor Xia Housheng and others, as well as his servant Fu Jia, warned him several times for his mistakes, so he sent someone with documents to blame Xia Housheng, and tied Fu Jia and put him in prison?
He was dissolute and confused, lost the etiquette and justice of the emperor, and destroyed the system of the Ding and Han Dynasties.
His minister Yang Chang and others gave him advice several times, but he did not change his fault. Instead, he became worse and worse day by day. He was afraid that he would endanger the country and make the world uneasy.
Chen Yang Chang and others would like to discuss with the doctors Kong Ba, Chen Junshe, Chen De, Chen Yushe, Chen She, and Chen Houcang. They all said: Emperor Gao was called Taizu of the Han Dynasty because he established the foundation of the Han Dynasty. Emperor Xiaowen was called Taizong because of his kindness and frugality. Now that your majesty succeeded Emperor Xiaozhao, his behavior was indulgent and illegal.
"The Book of Songs" says: If you are ignorant, you have already conceived a child. The provisions of the five punishments stipulate that there is no greater sin than unfilial piety.
King Xiang of Zhou could not serve his mother well. "Spring and Autumn" said that the King of Heaven went to Zheng State and was driven out of the capital because of his unfilial piety, which cut him off from the rest of the world.
The ancestral temple is more important than the king. If your majesty has not gone to the high temple to accept the great mission, he cannot inherit the will of God, worship the ancestral temple, and rule all the people in the world. He should be deposed.
The minister asked the relevant officials, the imperial censor Cai Yi, Zongzheng Liu De, Taichang Suchang and Taizhu, to prepare a Tailao offering and offer it to Gaomiao.
The minister Yang Chang and others risked death to report the crime.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
皇太后诏曰： 可。
光令王起拜受诏，王曰： 闻天子有争臣七人，虽亡道不失天下。
光曰： 皇太后诏废，安得天子！
乃即持其手，解脱其玺组，奉上太后，扶王下殿，出金马门，群臣随送。
王西面拜，曰： 愚戆不任汉事。
起就乘舆副车。
大将军光送至昌邑邸，光谢曰： 王行自绝于天，臣等驽怯，不能杀身报德。
臣宁负王，不敢负社稷。
愿王自爱，臣长不复见左右。
光涕泣而去。
群臣奏言： 古者废放之人屏于远方，不及以政，请徙王贺汉中房陵县。
太后诏归贺昌邑，赐汤沐邑二千户。
昌邑群臣坐亡辅导之谊，陷王于恶，光悉诛杀二百余人。
出死，号呼市中曰： 当断不断，反受其乱。
translation: 
The Empress Dowager issued an edict: "It must be played accurately."
Huo Guang asked the king of Changyi to stand up and kneel down to accept the edict. The king of Changyi said: I heard that as long as there are seven Jingchen in the sky, even if there is no way, the world will not be lost.
Huo Guang said: The empress dowager has been deposed by decree, but she is still the emperor!
So he stepped forward and grabbed his hand, took off the seal ribbon on his body, handed it to the Queen Mother, helped King Changyi down from the palace, and walked out of the Golden Horse Gate, followed by the officials to see him off.
The king of Changyi bowed to the west and said: "I am ignorant and unreasonable, and cannot bear the heavy responsibility of the Han Dynasty."
He got up and got into the Emperor's attendant's vehicle.
After General Huo Guang sent the King of Changyi to his residence in Changyi, Huo Guang confessed: "Your actions are in vain. My subordinates are cowardly and incompetent and cannot commit suicide to repay your kindness."
I would rather disgrace the king than dare to disgrace the country.
I hope the king can love himself, and I will never see you again.
Huo Guang left King Changyi in tears.
The ministers again reported: In ancient times, people who were deposed and exiled were exiled to far away places. To prevent them from interfering with national policies, we request that Liu He, the king of Changyi, be moved to Fangling County in Hanzhong.
The Queen Mother issued an edict to Liu He to return to Changyi and gave him 2,000 private households to collect taxes.
The ministers of Changyi State failed to assist and educate the king and his ministers, causing the king to go astray and was convicted. Huo Guang killed them all, more than two hundred people in total.
When these people were led out to be executed, they all cried and shouted in the streets: If the interruption continues, they will suffer chaos.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
光坐庭中，会丞相以下议定所立。
广陵王已前不用，及燕刺王反诛，其子不在议中。
近亲唯有卫太子孙号皇曾孙在民间，咸称述焉。
光遂复与丞相敞等上奏曰： 《礼》曰： 人道亲亲故尊祖，尊祖故敬宗。
大宗亡嗣，择支子孙贤者为嗣。
孝武皇帝曾孙病已，武帝时有诏掖庭养视，至今年十八，师受《诗》、《论语》、《孝经》，躬行节俭，慈仁爱人，可以嗣孝昭皇帝后，奉承祖宗庙，子万姓。
臣昧死以闻。
皇太后诏曰： 可。
光遣宗正刘德至曾孙家尚冠里，洗沐赐御衣，太仆以軨猎车迎曾孙就斋宗正府，入未央宫见皇太后，封为阳武侯。
已而光奉上皇帝玺绶，谒于高庙，是为孝宣皇帝。
明年，下诏曰： 夫褒有德，赏元功，古今通谊也。
translation: 
Huo Guang sat in the court and discussed with the ministers below the prime minister to decide on the candidates.
King Guangling had not been selected long before this, and when King Yanla was executed for his rebellion, his son was no longer in the discussion.
Among the close relatives, only the grandson of Prince Wei is still known as Huang Zeng among the people and is generally praised.
Huo Guang then submitted a memorial together with Prime Minister Yang Chang and other ministers: "The book "Li" says that if you can love your relatives, you can respect your ancestors, and if you can respect your ancestors, you can respect the ancestral temple.
Now that the great clan has no heir, he should choose a worthy person from the descendants of his side as his heir.
Emperor Xiaowu's great-grandson was ill. Emperor Wu had Shaoling to raise and take care of him in Yeting. Now he is eighteen years old. He studied "Poetry", "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety" as a teacher. He practiced frugality and was kind and loving. He could inherit the throne of Emperor Xiaozhao, serve his ancestors and rule the people.
I risked my life to tell you.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict: "It must be played accurately."
Huo Guang sent Zongzheng and Liu De to his great-grandson's home, Shangguanli, to help him wash and bathe, and gave him the emperor's clothes. He asked the servant to take his great-grandson to Zongzheng's mansion in a light car to fast, and then went to Weiyang Palace to see the empress dowager. He was named Marquis of Yangwu.
Soon Huo Guang held the emperor's seal and went to the Gaomiao to pay homage, becoming Emperor Xiaoxuan.
The next year, the emperor issued an edict saying: It is common practice in ancient and modern times to praise those who are virtuous and reward those who have made great achievements.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
大司马、大将军光宿卫忠正，宣德明恩，守节乘谊，以安宗庙。
其以河北、东武阳益封光万七千户。
与故所食凡二万户。
赏赐前后黄金七千斤，钱六千万，杂缯三万匹，奴婢百七十人，马二千匹，甲第一区。
自昭帝时，光子禹及兄孙云皆中郎将，云弟山奉车都尉、侍中，邻胡、越兵。
光两女婿为东西宫卫尉，昆弟诸婿外孙皆奉朝请，为诸曹大夫、骑都尉，给事中。
党亲连体，根据于朝廷。
光自后元秉持万机，及上即位，乃归政。
上廉让不受，诸事皆先关白光，然后奏御天子。
光每朝见，上虚己敛容，礼下之已甚。
光秉政前后二十年，地节二年春病笃，车驾自临问光病，上为之涕泣。
光上书谢恩曰： 愿分国邑三千户，以封兄孙奉车都尉山为列侯，奉兄票骑将军去病祀。
事下丞相、御史，即日拜光子禹为右将军。
光薨，上及皇太后亲临光丧。
translation: 
Huo Guang, the great general of Sima, guards the court with loyalty and integrity, promotes morality and shows kindness, preserves integrity and upholds benevolence and righteousness, so as to stabilize the ancestral temple.
Seventeen thousand households in Hebei and Dongwuyang were granted to Huo Guang.
Including his previous fiefdom, there were a total of 20,000 households.
He was rewarded seven thousand catties of gold, sixty million in money, thirty thousand pieces of silk of various colors, one hundred and seventy slaves, two thousand horses, and a first-class residence.
From the time of Emperor Zhao, Huo Guang's son Huo Yu and Huo Guang's brother's grandson Huo Yun were already Zhonglang Generals. Huo Yun's younger brother Huo Shan served as Fengche Captain and Shizhong, and controlled the military power of Hu and Yue.
Huo Guang's two sons-in-law are the guards of the East and West Palaces respectively. The sons-in-law and grandsons of Huo Guang's brothers are eligible to participate in court meetings, serve as Cao officials, cavalry captains, and receive official positions in the affairs.
Factions and relatives were united and occupied the court in an intricate manner.
Huo Guang had been the prime minister of the government since the Hou Yuan Dynasty. He did not return the government until the emperor ascended the throne.
The emperor was humble and refused to accept it. He had to consult Huo Guang for instructions on all political matters before reporting them to the emperor.
Every time Huo Guang went to court to see him, the emperor was humble and serious, and treated him with great respect and courtesy.
Huo Guang was in power for twenty years. In the spring of the second year of Dijie, he became seriously ill. The emperor personally went to his home to see his condition and shed tears for him.
Huo Guang wrote a letter to express his gratitude and said: I would like to use the three thousand property of my feudal land to enfeoff my brother's grandson, Fengche Captain Huo Shan, as a lord, in order to worship my brother Hussar General Huo Qubing.
The emperor handed over the matter to the Prime Minister and Censor, and appointed Huo Guang's son Huo Yu as the right general on the same day.
After Huo Guang passed away, the emperor and the empress dowager personally went to Huo Guang's mourning hall to express their condolences.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
太中大夫任宣与侍御史五人持节护丧事。
中二千石治莫府冢上。
赐金钱、缯絮、绣被百领，衣五十箧，璧珠玑玉衣，梓宫、便房、黄肠题凑各一具，枞木外臧椁十五具。
东园温明，皆如乘舆制度。
载光尸柩以辒辌车，黄屋在纛，发材官轻车北军五校士军陈至茂陵，以送其葬。
谥曰宣成侯。
发三河卒穿复士，起冢祠堂。置园邑三百家，长丞奉守如旧法。
既葬，封山为乐平侯，以奉车都尉领尚书事。
天子思光功德，下诏曰： 故大司马、大将军、博陆侯宿卫孝武皇帝三十有余年，辅孝昭皇帝十有余年，遭大难，躬秉谊，率三公、九卿、大夫定万世册，以安社稷，天下蒸庶咸以康宁。
功德茂盛，朕甚嘉之。
translation: 
Ren Xuan, the Taizhong doctor, and five imperial censors held the talisman to organize the funeral.
The minister of Nakajikoku set up shogunate services on the cemetery.
The emperor also gave money, silk and cotton, a hundred embroidered quilts, fifty boxes of clothes, gold and jade clothes, an inner coffin, an outer coffin, and a pair of yellow intestines, and fifteen pairs of fir wood coffins were buried with him.
The secret weapons of Wenming made by Cambodian Garden are all in compliance with the emperor's specifications.
Huo Guang's body was carried in a roller carriage, which was covered with yellow satin, and a feathered flag was placed on the left side of the shaft. Officers, light carriages, and soldiers from the five schools of the Northern Army were sent to Maoling to bury Huo Guang.
He was given the title of Xuanchenghou.
Soldiers from the three counties of Hedong, Henan and Hanoi were recruited to dig tombs, build mausoleums and ancestral halls, and set up 300 guardians of the gardens. The chief ministers and ministers served and guarded the tombs according to the old law.
After Huo Guang was buried, Emperor Xuan named Huo Shan the Marquis of Leping and took charge of the affairs of the minister as the captain of Fengche.
The emperor recalled Huo Guang's merits and issued an order from Shao: The late Sima General Bo Luhou served Emperor Xiaowu for more than thirty years in palace confinement and assisted Emperor Xiaozhao for more than ten years. During the period, he encountered major disasters. He stood up for justice and led the three gongs and nine ministers to decide on a ten-year plan to stabilize the country, so that the people of the world could achieve health and peace.
His merits are immeasurable and I highly commend him.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
复其后世，畴其爵邑，世世无有所与，功如萧相国。
明年夏，封太子外祖父许广汉为平恩侯。
复下诏曰： 宣成侯光宿卫忠正，勤劳国家，善善及后世，其封光兄孙中郎将云为冠阳侯。
禹既嗣为博陆侯，太夫人显改光时所自造茔制而侈大之。
起三出阙，筑神道，北临昭灵，南出承恩，盛饰祠室，辇阁通属永巷，而幽良人婢妾守之。
广治第室，作乘舆辇，加画绣茵冯，黄金涂，韦絮荐轮，侍婢以五采丝挽显，游戏第中。
初，光爱幸监奴冯子都，常与计事，及显寡居，与子都乱。
而禹、山亦并缮治第宅，走马驰逐平乐馆。
translation: 
It was decided to exempt his descendants from corvee service. His descendants will inherit his title and land, and they are not allowed to change from generation to generation. His contribution is equal to that of Xiao Xiangguo.
In the summer of the next year, Emperor Xuan made Xu Guanghan, the prince's maternal grandfather, the Marquis of Ping'en.
He also issued an edict: Huo Guang of Xuansheng Castle served the emperor loyally and upright in the palace confinement, and worked hard for the country. Praising kind people should be extended to future generations. Here, Huo Yun, the grandson of Huo Guang's brother Zhonglang, is named Guanyang Marquis.
After Huo Yu succeeded him as Marquis of Bolu, the wife changed the cemetery regulations designed by Huo Guang during his lifetime and expanded them.
A gate with three exits was built and a Shinto was built, with the north side close to Zhaoling and the south side beyond Cheng Mo. The ancestral hall was decorated lavishly, a special lane for chariots led directly to the Yongxiang in the tomb, and civilians, slaves, and concubines were imprisoned to guard it.
He also built a large residence, made a chariot for riding, added embroidered cushions and handles with patterns, and painted them with gold. He also wrapped the wheels with leather and silk wadding. The attendants and maids used colorful ribbons to pull the chariot he was riding on, and played games in the house for fun.
At first, Huo Guang doted on Feng Zidu, the house slave manager, and often discussed matters with him. When she became a widow and lived alone, she committed adultery with Feng Zidu.
Huo Yu and Huo Shan also repaired their houses at the same time and often raced horses and chased each other in Pingle Hall.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
云当朝请，数称病私出，多从宾客，张围猎黄山苑中，使苍头奴上朝谒，莫敢谴者。
而显及诸女，昼夜出入长信宫殿中，亡期度。
宣帝自在民间闻知霍氏尊盛日久，内不能善。
光薨，上始躬亲朝政，御史大夫魏相给事中。
显谓禹、云、山： 女曹不务奉大将军余业，今大夫给事中，他人一间，女能复自救邪？
后两家奴争道，霍氏奴入御史府，欲蹋大夫门，御史为叩头谢，乃去。
人以谓霍氏，显等始知忧。
会魏大夫为丞相，数燕见言事。
平恩侯与侍中金安上等径出入省中。
时，霍山自若领尚书，上令吏民得奏封事，不关尚书，群臣进见独往来，于是霍氏甚恶之。
宣帝始立，立微时许妃为皇后。
translation: 
Whenever Huo Yun was in court, he often went out privately claiming to be ill, and took many guests with him to hunt in the Huangshan Garden. However, he appointed servants to go to court on his behalf, and no one dared to condemn him.
Moreover, Xian and her daughters could enter and exit the Changxin Palace regardless of day or night, with no limit.
When Emperor Xuan was among the people, he heard and knew that the Huo family was noble and powerful for a long time, but he did not think this was a good thing.
After Huo Guang's death, Emperor Xuan began to personally manage the affairs of the state, and asked Wei Xiang, the imperial censor, to be responsible for the affairs.
Xian said to Huo Yu, Huo Yun, Huo Shan and others: If you people don't work hard to inherit the general's legacy, now that the appointment of officials is in trouble, once someone stirs up trouble in the middle, can you still save yourselves?
Later, the servants of the Huo and Wei families fought for their way. The servants of the Huo family ran to the censor's house and tried to break down the door of his house. The censor kowtowed and apologized, and then they left.
Someone told the Huo family about this, and Xian and others began to know that there was going to be trouble.
When Dr. Wei became prime minister, he was often summoned to discuss political affairs in his spare time.
Ping Enhou and Jin Anshang, the servant, can directly enter and leave the palace.
At that time, Huo Shan was still in charge of the affairs of the minister, but the emperor asked the officials and the people to seal the memorials and report them without going through the minister. The ministers and officials could come and go alone when they came to see the emperor. Huo was very dissatisfied with this.
When Emperor Xuan first ascended the throne, he consecrated Concubine Xu, whom he had married when he was humble but not yet prominent, as the queen.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
显爱小女成君，欲遣之，私使乳医淳于衍行毒药杀许后，因劝光内成君，代立为后，语在《外戚传》。
始，许后暴崩，吏捕诸医，劾衍侍疾亡状不道，下狱。
吏簿问急，显恐事败，即具以实语光。
光大惊，欲自发举，不忍，犹与。
会奏上，因署衍勿论。
光薨后，语稍泄。
于是上始闻之而未察，乃徙光女婿度辽将军、未央卫尉、平陵侯范明友为光禄勋，次婿诸吏中郎将、羽林监任胜出为安定太守。
数月，复出光姊婿给事中光禄大夫张朔为蜀郡太守，群孙婿中郎将王汉为武威太守。
顷之，复徙光长女婿长乐卫尉邓广汉为少府。
更以禹为大司马，冠小冠，亡印绶，罢其右将军屯兵官属，特使禹官名与光俱大司马者。
又收范明友度辽将军印绶，但为光禄勋。
及光中女婿赵平为散骑、骑都尉、光禄大夫将屯兵，又收平骑都尉印绶。
诸领胡越骑、羽林及两宫卫将屯兵，悉易以所亲信许、史子弟代之。
禹为大司马，称病。
禹故长史任宣候问，禹曰： 我何病？
县官非我家将军不得至是，今将军坟墓未干，尽外我家，反任许、史，夺我印绶，令人不省死。
宣见禹恨望深，乃谓曰： 大将军时何可复行！
translation: 
Xian was very fond of her youngest daughter Chengjun and wanted to make her rich, so she secretly sent obstetrician Chun Yuyan to poison Empress Xu to kill her, and took the opportunity to persuade Huo Guang to ask Emperor Xuan to marry Chengjun and replace Empress Xu as queen. These things are recorded in the "Wai Jie Zhuan".
When Queen Xu died suddenly, the officials arrested all the doctors in the palace and impeached Chun Yuyan for acting suspiciously and unreasonably during the treatment process, so they imprisoned him.
The jailer interrogated him very urgently. He was obviously afraid that the matter would be exposed, so he told Huo Guang the truth.
Huo Guang was shocked. He wanted to report the matter in person but couldn't bear it, so he was hesitating.
When the memorial of the case was reported, Huo Guang took the opportunity to approve that Chunyu Yan no longer needed to be pursued.
After Huo Guang passed away, the truth began to slowly leak out.
The emperor had just heard about this but did not know the truth, so he transferred Huo Guang's son-in-law Du Liao General Weiyang Palace Guard Wei Pinglinghou Fan Mingyou to serve as Guang Luxun, and his second son-in-law Zhu Li Zhonglang General Yu Lin as the governor of Anding.
A few months later, Huo Guang's sister's son-in-law was transferred to Zhang Shuo, the Guanglu doctor, as the prefect of Shu County, and his grandson-in-law Zhonglang General Wang Han was appointed as the prefect of Wuwei.
Not long after they met, Huo Guang's eldest son-in-law, Changle Palace Guard Deng Guangmo, was transferred to the post of Shaofu.
Then Huo Yu was appointed as the Grand Sima, wearing only a small hat and no seal. His right general and the garrison officers and soldiers under his command were removed. Huo Yu was only given the same official name as Huo Guang, that is, the Grand Sima.
He also took back Fan Mingyou's official seal as General Du Liao and only allowed him to serve as Guang Luxun.
In addition, Huo Guang's third son-in-law, Zhao Ping, commanded the garrison for Dr. Guanglu, the cavalry captain of the scattered cavalry, and took back the official seal of the cavalry captain from Tang Ping.
All the soldiers commanded by the Hu people, the Yue cavalry, the Yulin army, and the guards of the two palaces were replaced by the Xu and Shi families who were trusted by Emperor Xuan.
After Huo Yu was appointed as Grand Sima, he complained that he was ill.
Huo Yu's former chief historian Ren Xuan came to visit and greet him. Huo Yu said: "What disease do I have?"
How could the emperor have reached this point without relying on my general? Now that the general's tomb has not yet been buried, he has alienated and ostracized our family. Instead, he appointed people from the Xu and Shi families, and even confiscated my official seal. It's really hard to figure out.
Ren Xuan saw that Huo Yu was deeply resentful, so he said to him: How can the era of generals be allowed to happen again?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
持国权柄，杀生在手中。
廷尉李种、王平、左冯翊贾胜胡及车丞相女婿少府徐仁皆坐逆将军意下狱死。
使乐成小家子得幸将军，至九卿封侯。
百官以下但事冯子都、王子方等，视丞相亡如也。
各自有时，今许、史自天子骨肉，贵正宜耳。
大司马欲用是怨恨，愚以为不可。
禹默然。
数日，起视事。
显及禹、山、云自见日侵削，数相对啼泣，自怨。
山曰： 今丞相用事。县官信之，尽变易大将军时法令，以公田赋与贫民，发扬大将军过失。
又诸儒生多窭人子，远客饥寒，喜妄说狂言，不避忌讳，大将军常仇之，今陛下好与诸儒生语，人人自使书对事，多言我家者。
尝有上书言大将军时主弱臣强，专制擅权，今其子孙用事，昆弟益骄恣，恐危宗庙，灾异数见，尽为是也。
其言绝痛，山屏不奏其书。
translation: 
Holding the power of the country, life and death are in your hands.
Tingwei Li Zhong, Wang Ping, Zuo Fengyi, Jia Shenghu, and Shaofu Xu Ren, the son-in-law of Prime Minister Che, were all imprisoned and executed for violating the general's will.
Because the children of a small family like Lecheng were favored by the general, they were promoted to the rank of Jiuqing, and were given the title of lord.
The officials below only served Feng Zidu, Wang Zifang and others, and did not pay attention to the prime minister at all.
This is their own era. Now the Xu and Shi families are flesh and blood relatives of the emperor, and it is natural for them to be honored.
If Da Sima is resentful because of this, I don’t think it should be.
Huo Yu was silent after hearing this.
A few days later, Huo Yu went to court again to handle affairs.
Xian, Huo Yu, Huo Shan, and Huo Yun saw their power being deprived of power day by day, and they cried and complained to each other several times.
Huo Shan said: Now that the prime minister is in power and is trusted by the emperor, he has changed all the laws enacted by the general at that time and granted public land to the poor to publicize the general's fault.
There are also Confucian scholars, most of whom are poor people, who come from afar to live in the capital without adequate food and clothing, but they like to speak arrogantly and do not shy away from taboos. The general once hated these people with hatred, but now His Majesty likes to talk with the Confucian scholars and lets them write letters to answer political questions. These people talk about our family affairs.
Someone once wrote a letter saying that when the general was in power, the leader was weak and the ministers were strong, and he took power and became dictatorial. Now that his descendants are in power, the brothers are more arrogant and wanton, which may endanger the ancestral temple and the country. Disasters and strange things occur frequently, all because of this reason.
His words were so painful that I refrained from publishing this book.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
后上书者益黠，尽奏封事，辄下中书令出取之，不关尚书，益不信人。
显曰： 丞相数言我家，独无罪乎？
山曰： 丞相廉正，安得罪？
我家昆弟诸婿多不谨。
又闻民间讠雚言霍氏毒杀许皇后，宁有是邪？
显恐急，即具以实告山、云、禹。
山、云、禹惊曰： 如是，何不早告禹等！
县官离散斥逐诸婿，用是故也。
此大事，诛罚不小，奈何？
于是始有邪谋矣。
初，赵平客石夏善为天官，语平曰： 荧惑守御星，御星，太仆奉车都尉也，不黜则死。
平内忧山等。
云舅李竟所善张赦见云家卒卒，谓竟曰： 今丞相与平恩侯用事，可令太夫人言太后，先诛此两人。
移徙陛下，在太后耳。
长安男子张章告之，事下廷尉。
执金吾捕张赦、石夏等，后有诏止勿捕。
山等愈恐，相谓曰： 此县官重太后，故不竟也。
然恶端已见，又有弑许后事，陛下虽宽仁，恐左右不听，久之犹发，发即族矣，不如先也。
translation: 
Later, the people who submitted the letter became more cunning and used seals to make their announcements. The emperor asked Zhongshu Ling to come out and take it away. Without going through the minister, the emperor began to distrust me more and more.
Xian asked: Isn't it a crime for the Prime Minister to talk about my family's affairs many times?
Huo Shan replied: The Prime Minister is honest and upright, how can he be guilty?
Most of my brothers and sons-in-law behave carelessly.
I also heard popular rumors that the Huo family killed Queen Xu with poison. Is this true?
He was very frightened, so he told Huo Shan, Huo Yun and Huo Yu all the truth.
Huo Shan, Huo Yun and Huo Yu said in panic: Why didn't you tell us about things like this earlier?
The emperor separated and expelled several sons-in-law from our family for this reason.
This is a big deal and the punishment will not be light. What should I do?
From then on, they began to have evil plans.
At the beginning, Zhao Ping's disciple Shi Xia knew astronomy. He said to Zhao Ping: Yinghuo guards the Royal Star, which is the constellation of the imperial servant Fengche Duwei. They were either demoted or killed.
Tang Ping was worried about Huo Shan and others.
Zhang She, a good friend of Huo Yun's uncle Li Jing, saw that Huo Yun's family was in danger, so he said to Li Jing: Now that the prime minister and Marquis Ping'en are in power, you can ask the queen mother to tell the queen mother to kill these two people first.
It is up to the Empress Dowager to depose His Majesty.
Zhang Zhang, a man from Chang'an, reported the matter, and Emperor Xuan handed the matter over to Tingwei.
Zhi Jinwu arrested Zhang She, Shi Xia and others, but was later stopped by the Shao Order and no arrests were allowed.
Huo Shan and others were even more panicked and said to each other: "This is because the emperor values ​​the queen mother's face, so he didn't go into details."
But the bad omen has appeared, and there is also the poisonous murder of Queen Xu. Even if His Majesty is lenient and kind, he is afraid that the people around him will not listen and will still investigate after a long time. Once found out, the clan will be exterminated. We might as well take action first.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
遂令诸女各归报其夫，皆曰： 安所相避？
会李竟坐与诸侯王交通，辞语及霍氏，有诏云、山不宜宿卫，免，就第。
光诸女遇太后无礼，冯子都数犯法，上并以为让，山、禹等甚恐，显梦第中井水溢流庭下，灶居树上，又梦大将军谓显曰： 知捕儿不？亟下捕之。
第中鼠暴多，与人相触，以尾画地。
鸮数鸣殿前树上。
第门自坏。云尚冠里宅中门亦坏。
巷端人共见有人居云屋上，彻瓦投地，就视，亡有，大怪之。
禹梦车骑声正讠雚来捕禹，举家忧愁。
山曰： 丞相擅减宗庙羔、菟、蛙，可以此罪也。
translation: 
So they asked their daughters to go back and tell their husbands, saying: Where is there any place to take refuge?
It happened that Li Jing was convicted for colluding with the princes, and the Huo family was involved in his confession. Emperor Xuan went to Shao and said that Huo Yun and Huo Shan were not suitable to serve in the palace, and he was dismissed from office and returned home.
Huo Guang's daughters were rude to the Queen Mother, and Feng Zidu broke the law several times. The emperor scolded them together, which made Huo Shan, Ting Wei and others feel very frightened. In the dream, I saw the well water in the house overflowing and flowing into the hall, and the stove in the kitchen was hung on a big tree. I also dreamed that the general said to Xian: Do you know that our son is going to be arrested?
They'll be here soon to catch you. There were suddenly more rats in the house, colliding with people and scribbling on the ground with their tails.
Owls hooted several times in the trees in front of the temple.
The door of the house was broken for no reason, and the door of Huo Yunshang Guanli's house was also broken for no reason.
People in the streets and alleys saw someone sitting on Huo Yun's roof. They took off the tiles and threw them on the ground. They went to look, but saw no one. They felt very strange.
In his dream, Huo Yu heard the noise of carriages and horses coming to capture him. The whole family felt sad about these strange things.
Huo Shan said: The prime minister arbitrarily reduced the number of lambs, rabbits, and frogs offered to the ancestral temple. This can be used to convict him.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
谋令太后为博平君置酒，召丞相、平恩侯以下，使范明友、邓广汉承太后制引斩之，因废天子而立禹。
约定未发，云拜为玄菟太守，太中大夫任宣为代郡太守。
山又坐写秘书，显为上书献城西第，八马千匹，以赎山罪。
书报闻，会事发觉，云、山、明友自杀，显、禹、广汉等捕得。
禹要斩，显及诸女昆弟皆弃市。
唯独霍后废处昭台宫，与霍氏相连坐诛灭者数千家。
上乃下诏曰： 乃者东织室令史张赦使魏郡豪李竟报冠阳侯云谋为大逆，朕以大将军故，抑而不扬，冀其自新。
今大司马博陆侯禹与母宣成侯夫人显及从昆弟子冠阳侯云、乐平侯山诸姊妹婿谋为大逆，欲诖误百姓。
赖宗庙神灵，先发得，咸伏其辜，朕甚悼之。
诸为霍氏所诖误，事在丙申前，未发觉在吏者，皆赦除之。
男子张章先发觉，以语期门董忠，忠告在曹杨惲，惲告侍中金安上。
惲召见对状，后章上书以闻。
侍中史高与金安上建发其事，言无入霍氏禁闼，卒不得遂其谋，皆雠有功。
封章为博成侯，忠高昌侯，惲平通侯，安上都成侯，高乐陵侯。
初，霍氏奢侈，茂陵徐生曰： 霍氏必亡。
translation: 
They conspired to ask the Queen Mother to set up a banquet for Lord Boping, summon the prime minister and officials below Ping'enhou, and have Fan Mingyou and Deng Guanghan take these people out and behead them on the Queen Mother's order, taking the opportunity to depose the emperor and make Huo Yu the emperor.
Before the agreed plan was implemented, Huo Yun was appointed as the prefect of Xuantu, and Ren Xuan, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed as the prefect of Daijun.
Huo Shan also broke the law for copying the palace secretaries. Xian wrote a letter expressing his willingness to donate his mansion in the west of the city and a thousand horses to atone for Huo Shan's crime.
Emperor Xuan only approved it in his memorial. Just when their plot was discovered, Huo Yun, Huo Shan, and Fan Mingyou committed suicide, and Xian, Huo Yu, Deng Guanghan and others were captured.
Huo Yu was cut in half, and several of her daughters and brothers were executed.
Only Empress Huo was deposed and imprisoned in Zhaotai. Thousands of families were implicated in the Star Doctor and were convicted and executed to exterminate their clans.
Emperor Xuan then issued an edict saying: Not long ago, Shi Zhangshe, the commander of the Zhishi Office, instructed Li Jing, a wealthy family in Wei County, to reply to Guanyang Hou Huoyun and conspire to cause rebellion. Because of the general, I suppressed the matter and did not make it public, hoping that they could change Bai Xin.
Now the great Sima Bo, Lu Hou Huo Yu, his mother, Xuancheng Hou's wife Xian, and their cousin's sons, Guanyang Hou Huoyun, Leping Hou Huoshan, and their sisters' sons-in-law, are conspiring to harm the people.
Thanks to the blessing of the ancestors, they were discovered and captured in advance, and all of them were executed according to law. I am very sad about this matter.
All those who were implicated by the Huo family, if the incident occurred before Bingshen and had not yet discovered that the reporting officer was in custody, will be pardoned.
The man Zhang Zhang discovered the incident first and told Dong Zhong of Qimen. Dong Zhong reported it to Zuo Cao Yang, and Yang Pan reported it to Shizhong Jin Anshang.
Yang Fan was summoned to state the situation, and later Zhang Zhang wrote a report.
Shi Gao and Jin Anshang, the servants, suggested reporting the matter. If the Huo family was not allowed to enter the palace ban, the Huo family's conspiracy did not succeed. They were both equally meritorious.
Zhang Zhang was specially granted the title of Marquis of Bocheng, Dong Zhong was the Marquis of Gaolu, Yang Peng was the Marquis of Pingtong, Jin Anshang was the Marquis of Ducheng, and Shi Gao was the Marquis of Leling.
At the beginning, the Huo family lived a luxurious life, and Xu Sheng of Maoling said: The Huo family will definitely perish.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
夫奢则不逊，不逊必侮上。
侮上者，逆道也。
在人之右，众必害之。
霍氏秉权日久，害之者多矣。
天下害之，而又行以逆道，不亡何待！
乃上疏言： 霍氏泰盛，陛下即爱厚之，宜以时抑制，无使至亡。 书三上，辄报闻。
其后霍氏诛灭，而告霍氏者皆封。
人为徐生上书曰： 臣闻客有过主人者，见其灶直突，傍有积薪，客谓主人，更为曲突，远徙其薪，不者且有火患。
主人嘿然不应。
俄而家果失火，邻里共救之，幸而得息。
于是杀牛置酒，谢其邻人，灼烂者在于上行，余各以功次坐，而不录言曲突者。
人谓主人曰： 乡使听客之言，不费牛、酒，终亡火患。
今论功而请宾，曲突徙薪亡恩泽，焦头烂额为上客耶？
translation: 
Because once you are arrogant, you will not be respectful, and if you are not respectful, you will definitely insult the emperor.
It is treacherous to insult the emperor.
If you are above others, you will definitely be hated by everyone.
The Huo family has been in power for a long time, and there are many people who hate it.
Everyone in the world hates them, and they are doing the opposite. If they don't perish, what are they waiting for?
So he wrote a letter and said: The Huo family is too powerful. Even if your Majesty loves them very much, you should always exercise restraint and not let them embark on the road of destruction.
I wrote to him three times, but the emperor only replied that he understood. Later, after the Huo family was executed and destroyed, everyone who reported on the Huo family was rewarded.
Someone wrote a letter on behalf of Xu Sheng and said: I heard that a guest went to visit the owner and saw that the chimney of the owner's stove was straight with firewood piled next to it. The guest told the owner to change it to a curved chimney and move the firewood farther away, otherwise there would be a fire.
The master remained silent.
Soon the host's house caught fire, and neighbors came to put out the fire. Fortunately, the fire was put out.
So the master killed the cow and served wine to reward his neighbors. The burned person was seated at the top, and the others were seated in order according to their contribution, except for the man who asked him to change the curved chimney.
Someone said to the host: If you had listened to the guests, there would be no need to spend money on killing cattle and buying wine today, and there would never be a fire.
Nowadays, guests are invited based on merit, but the person who suggested changing the crooked chimney and moving the firewood was not repaid. How come the burned-out person became the guest of honor?


Chunk 24: 
original: 
主人乃寤而请之，今茂陵徐福数上书言霍氏且有变，宜防绝之。
乡使福说得行，则国亡裂土出爵之费，臣亡逆乱诛灭之败。
往事既已，而福独不蒙其功，唯陛下察之，贵徙薪曲突之策，使居焦发灼烂之右。
上乃赐福帛十匹，后以为郎。
宣帝始立，谒见高庙，大将军光从骖乘，上内严惮之，若有芒刺在背。
后车骑将军张安世代光骖乘，天子从容肆体，甚安近焉。
及光身死而宗族竟诛，故俗传之曰： 威震主者不畜，霍氏之祸萌于骖乘。
至成帝时，为光置守冢百家，吏卒奉词焉。
元始二年，封光从父昆弟曾孙阳为博陆侯，千户。
金日磾字翁叔，本匈奴休屠王太子也。
translation: 
The host then came to his senses and went to invite the guest. Now Xu Fu from Maoling has written several times to say that something will happen to the Huo family and should be prevented.
If Xu Fu's suggestion had been adopted, the country would not have spent the expense of ceding lands and ennoblements, and the ministers would not have suffered the calamity of rebellion and execution.
The past has passed, but only Xu Fu has not been rewarded for his merits. I hope your majesty will be aware of it and can pay attention to the good strategy of moving the firewood from the crooked chimney, so that it can benefit the people whose body hair was burned.
The emperor then gave Xu Fu ten pieces of silk and silk, and later appointed him as a Langguan.
When Emperor Xuan first came to the throne, he went to visit the Gaomiao Temple. General Huo Guang was riding in a car with him. The emperor was very frightened, as if there were thorns in his back.
Later, the chariot and cavalry general Zhang Anshi accompanied Huo Guang on the ride, and the emperor felt more comfortable and relaxed, feeling very safe and close.
After Huo Guang's death, his clan was also executed. Therefore, there is a legend among the people: Those whose power shocks the monarch will not be tolerated. The Huo family's troubles began with accompanying people.
When he became emperor, a hundred people were assigned to guard Huo Guang's tomb, and officials and soldiers performed sacrifices on time.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Huo Yang, the great-grandson of Huo Guang's cousin, was granted the title of Marquis of Bolu and was granted food to a thousand households in the city.
Jin Rixi, whose courtesy name was Uncle Weng, was originally the prince of King Xiutu of the Xiongnu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
武帝元狩中，票骑将军霍去病将兵击匈奴右地，多斩首，虏获休屠王祭天金人。
其夏，票骑复西过居延，攻祁连山，大克获。
于是单于怨昆邪、休屠居西方多为汉所破，召其王欲诛之。
昆邪、休屠恐，谋降汉。
休屠王后悔，昆邪王杀之，并将其众降汉。
封昆邪王为列侯。
日磾以父不降见杀，与母阏氏、弟伦俱没入官，输黄门养马，时年十四矣。
久之，武帝游宴见马，后宫满侧。
日磾等数十人牵马过殿下，莫不窃视，至日磾独不敢。
日磾长八尺二寸，容貌甚严，马又肥好，上异而问之，具以本状对。
上奇焉，即日赐汤沐衣冠，拜为马监，迁侍中、驸马都尉、光禄大夫。
translation: 
During the Yuanshou period of Emperor Wu, Hussar general Huo Qubing led troops to attack the western region of the Xiongnu and killed many people. They also captured the gold Buddha statue that King Xiutu used to worship the gods.
That summer, General Hussar passed through Juyan from the west and attacked the Qilian Mountains, winning a great victory.
From this, the Chanyu resented that Kunxie and Xiutu who lived in the west had been attacked by the Han army many times, and wanted to summon their kings to kill them.
King Kunxie and Xiutu were frightened and planned to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
King Xiutu later repented, so King Kunxie killed him and led his men to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
King Kunxie was granted the title of lord.
Jin Rixi was killed because his father refused to surrender, so he, his mother Ban and his younger brother Jin Lun were taken into the palace as slaves and sent to Huangmen to raise horses. He was only fourteen years old this year.
After a long time, Emperor Mowu summoned the horses raised by various ministries for fun, and the concubines from the harem stood on both sides of Emperor Wu.
Jin Richan and other dozens of people led the horse past His Highness. Everyone else peeked secretly, except Jin Rixi who did not dare to peek when he passed by.
Jin Rixi was eight feet two inches tall, with a majestic appearance, and his horses were fat and strong. Emperor Wu felt strange and asked him, and he answered truthfully.
Emperor Wu felt that this man was strange, so he gave him a bathing suit and a crown on the same day, appointed him as the general manager of horses, and promoted him to the position of Prince Consort Guanglu.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
日磾既亲近，未尝有过失，上甚信爱之，赏赐累千金，出则骖乘，入侍左右。
贵戚多窃怨，曰： 陛下妄得一胡儿，反贵重之！
上闻，愈厚焉。
日磾母教诲两子，甚有法度，上闻而嘉之。
病死，诏图画于甘泉宫，署曰 休屠王阏氏 。
日磾每见画常拜，乡之涕泣，然后乃去。
日磾子二人皆爱，为帝弄儿，常在旁侧。
弄儿或自后拥上项，日磾在前，见而目之。
弄儿走且啼曰： 翁怒。
上谓日磾 何怒吾儿为？
其后弄儿壮大，不谨，自殿下与宫人戏，日磾适见之，恶其淫乱，遂杀弄儿。
弄儿即日磾长子也。
上闻之大怒，日磾顿首谢，具言所以杀弄儿状。
上甚哀，为之泣，已而心敬日磾。
translation: 
After Jin Rihui got close to the emperor, he did nothing wrong. Emperor Wu trusted him very much and rewarded him with a total of more than a thousand taels of gold. He accompanied the emperor when he went out of the palace and stayed by his side when he was in the palace.
The nobles and relatives all complained privately, saying: Your Majesty got a Hu'er casually, but instead he valued him!
After Emperor Wu heard these words, he treated Jin Rixi even more favorably.
Jin Rixi's mother taught her two sons very appropriately and methodically. Emperor Wu praised her after hearing about it.
After she died of illness, Emperor Wu issued an edict to have her portrait painted and placed in Ganquan Palace. It read: "Xiu slaughtered Wang Ban's family."
Every time Jin Rixi saw the portrait, he would bow down and cry in front of the portrait before leaving.
Jin Rixi's two sons were very cute. They became the children for Emperor Wu to play with and often stayed with Emperor Wu.
Once, two children hugged Emperor Wu's neck from behind. Jin Rixi saw it from the front and glared at them.
The child ran away and cried: The old gentleman is angry.
Emperor Wu said to Jin Rixi: Why are you angry at my children?
Later, when the two children grew up, one of them behaved carelessly and played with the palace servants. Jin Rixi happened to see it. He hated the child's fornication and killed him.
This child is Jin Rixi's eldest son.
Emperor Wu was furious when he heard about this. Jin Rixi kowtowed to apologize and reported in detail the reasons why he wanted to kill the child.
Emperor Wu felt very sad and shed tears for him. After that, Emperor Wu respected Jin Rixi in his heart.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
初，莽何罗与江充相善，及充败卫太子，何罗弟通用诛太子时力战得封。
后上知太子冤，乃夷灭充宗族党与。
何罗兄弟惧及，遂谋为逆。
日磾视其志意有非常，心疑之，阴独察其动静，与俱上下。
何罗亦觉日磾意，以故久不得发。
是时，上行幸林光宫，日磾小疾卧庐。
何罗与通及小弟安成矫制夜出，共杀使者，发兵。
明旦，上未起，何罗亡何从外入。
日磾奏厕心动，立入坐内户下。
须臾，何罗袖白刃从东箱上，见日磾，色变，走趋卧内欲入，行触宝瑟，僵。
日磾得抱何罗，因传曰： 莽何罗反！
上惊起，左右拔刃欲格之，上恐并中日磾，止勿格。
日磾捽胡投何罗殿下，得禽缚之，穷治，皆伏辜。
translation: 
Originally, Mang Heluo and Jiang Chong were very close. When Prince Wei was killed by Jiang Chong, Mang Heluo's younger brother Mang Tong was rewarded for his efforts in fighting the crown prince.
Later, when Emperor Wu learned of the prince's grievances, he killed all Jiang Chong's clan and associates.
The Mangheluo brothers were afraid of harming themselves, so they planned to make trouble.
When Jin Rihui saw that they had abnormal intentions, he began to have doubts in his heart. A person secretly observed their movements and went in and out of the palace with them.
Mang Heluo was also aware of Jin Rixi's intention, so he could not attack for a long time.
At this time, Emperor Wu went to Linguang Palace, where Jin Rixi was lying in the palace to rest because of a minor illness.
Mang Heluo, Mang Tong and their younger brother Mang Ancheng came out at night under the pretense of the emperor's order, killed the envoy together, and then launched an army to rebel.
The next morning, Emperor Wu had not gotten up yet, so Mang Heluo had no excuse to enter the palace from outside.
Jin Rixi was suddenly moved when he was going to the toilet, so he immediately went in and sat down in the noodle room.
After a while, Mang He came in from the box with a dagger wrapped in his sleeves. When he saw Jin Rixi, his expression suddenly changed. He ran quickly towards the emperor's bed, trying to go in, but he encountered the dagger and stayed there for a while.
Jin Rihui took the opportunity to hug Mang Heluo, and then shouted loudly: Mang Heluo has rebelled!
Emperor Wu was frightened and stood up quickly. The people on his left and right drew their swords and wanted to kill Mang Heluo. Emperor Wu was afraid of accidentally hurting Jin Rixi, so he told his people not to kill him.
Jin Richan grabbed Mang Heluo by the neck and threw him to His Highness. The guards then caught Mang Heluo and tied him up. All the rebels were thoroughly investigated and convicted.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
由是著忠孝节。
日磾自在左右，目不忤视者数十年。
赐出宫女，不敢近。
上欲内其女后宫，不肯。
其笃慎如此，上尤奇异之。
及上病，属霍光以辅少主，光让日磾。日磾曰： 臣外国人，且使匈奴轻汉。
于是遂为光副。
光以女妻日磾嗣子赏。
初，武帝遗诏以讨莽何罗功封日磾为秺侯，日磾以帝少不受封。
辅政岁余，病困，大将军光白封日磾，卧授印绶。
一日，薨，赐葬具冢地，送以轻车介士，军陈至茂陵，谥曰敬侯。
日磾两子，赏、建，俱侍中，与昭帝略同年，共卧起。
赏为奉车，建驸马都尉。
及赏嗣侯，佩两绶。上谓霍将军曰： 金氏兄弟两人不可使俱两绶邪？
霍光对曰： 赏自嗣父为侯耳。
上笑曰： 侯不在我与将军乎？
光曰： 先帝之约，有功乃得封侯。
translation: 
From then on, Jin Rixi became famous for his loyalty and filial piety.
Jin Rixi has been keeping his eyes open for decades since he was by Emperor Wu's side.
He never dared to get close to the maid given to him.
Emperor Wu wanted to marry his daughter into the harem, but he refused.
Jin Rixi was so loyal and cautious, and Emperor Wu felt that he was different even more.
When Emperor Wu fell ill, he asked Huo Guang to assist the young monarch. Huo Guang recommended Jin Rixi, and Jin Rixi said: "I am a foreigner. If you do this, the Huns will despise the Han Dynasty."
So he became Huo Guang's deputy.
Huo Guang married his daughter to Jin Rixi's son Jinshang.
Later, Emperor Wu sent an edict to confer Jin Rixi the title of Marquis of Shao for his contribution to the expedition against Mang Heluo. Jin Rixi refused to accept the title of Marquis because Emperor Zhao was young.
After Jin Rixi assisted in political affairs for more than a year, he became seriously ill. General Huo Guang reported to the emperor to seal Jin Rixi, and Jin Rixi lay down to receive the seal and ribbon.
One day, Jin Sun passed away and gave his family burial utensils and a cemetery. They sent him off with a light chariot and warriors. The army lined up all the way to Maoling and gave him the honorary title of Marquis Jing.
Jin Rixi's two sons, Jin Sheng and Jin Jian, were both servants. They were roughly the same age as Emperor Zhao, and they both stood and slept together.
Jin was rewarded with the title of Captain Fengche, and Jin Jian was awarded the title of Commander-in-Chief Prince Consort.
When Jinshang inherited the title of Marquis and wore two ribbons, Emperor Zhao said to General Huo: "Can't both Jin brothers wear two ribbons?"
Huo Guang replied: Jinshang himself succeeded his father as a marquis.
Emperor Zhao smiled and said: "Isn't it up to me and the general to become a marquis?"
Huo Guang said: The late emperor once made a rule that only those with meritorious service can be granted the title of marquis.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
时年俱八九岁。
宣帝即位，赏为太仆，霍氏有事萌牙，上书去妻。
上亦自哀之，独得不坐。
元帝时为光禄勋，薨，亡子，国除。
元始中继绝世，封建孙当为秺侯，奉日磾后。
初，日磾所将俱降弟伦，字少卿，为黄门郎，早卒。
日磾两子贵，及孙则衰矣。而伦后嗣遂盛，子安上始贵显封侯。
安上字子侯，少为侍中，惇笃有智，宣帝爰之。
颇与发举楚王廷寿反谋，赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
后霍氏反，安上传禁门闼，无内霍氏亲属，封为都成侯，至建章卫尉。
薨，赐冢茔杜陵，谥曰敬侯。
四子，常、敞、岑、明。
岑、明皆为诸曹、中郎将，常光禄大夫。
translation: 
They are only eight or nine years old this year.
After Emperor Xuan came to the throne, Jin was rewarded as a royal servant. Something about the Huo family began to show up, so he wrote a letter requesting to divorce his wife.
The emperor also felt pity for him, but he was the only one who was not implicated in the crime.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, he was awarded a gold reward by Ren Guangluxun. After his death, he had no sons and the feudal kingdom was removed.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, the extinct ancestral sacrifice was restored, and Jin Jian's grandson Jin Dang was granted the title of Jiehou, as a descendant of Jin Rihun.
At the beginning, Jin Rihun took his younger brother Jin Lun, named Shaoqing, who surrendered with him, and served as Huangmenlang. He died early.
Jin Yuehui's two sons were both prominent, but they declined in the generation of his grandson. However, Jin Lun's descendants began to prosper, and his son Jin Anshang became prominent and was granted the title of marquis.
Jin'an, named Zihou, was a servant in his youth. He was honest and resourceful, and Emperor Xuan liked him very much.
He took an active part in exposing the conspiracy of Chu King Liu Yanshou to rebel. He was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and 300 households with food.
Later, the Huo family rebelled, and Jin An issued an order to close the palace gates and not let the Huo family's relatives in. He was also named Duchenghou, and later promoted to Jianzhang Weiwei.
After his death, the cemetery was given to Du Ling and he was named Jinghou.
Jin Anshang has four sons, namely Jin Chang, Jin Chang, Jin Cen and Jin Ming.
Jin Cen and Jin Ming were both appointed as generals among various Cao officials, and Jin Changguan was appointed as Guanglu doctor.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
元帝为太子时，敞为中庶子，幸有宠，帝即位，为骑都尉光禄大夫、中郎将侍中。元帝崩，故事，近臣皆随陵为园郎，敞以世名忠孝，太后诏留侍成帝，为奉车水衡都尉，至卫尉。
敞为人正直，敢犯颜色，左右惮之，唯上亦难焉。
病甚，上使使者问所欲，以弟岑为托。
上召岑，拜为使主客。
敞子涉本为左曹，上拜涉为侍中，使待幸绿车载送卫尉舍。
须臾卒。
敞三子，涉、参、饶。
涉明经俭节，诸儒称之。
成帝时为侍中、骑都尉，领三辅胡、越骑。
哀帝即位，为奉车都尉，至长信少府。
而参使匈奴，匈奴中郎将、越骑校尉、关内都尉，安定、东海太守。
饶为墟骑校尉。
涉两子，汤、融，皆侍中、诸曹、将、大夫。
translation: 
When Emperor Yuan was still the prince, Jin Chang was a concubine and was fortunate to be favored by the prince. After the prince ascended the throne, Jin Chang was appointed as the Cavalry Commander Guanglu, and the Zhonglang General served in the palace. After the death of Emperor Yuan, according to the past practice, ministers close to him would go to the imperial mausoleum to guard the tomb. Because Jin Chang was famous for his loyalty and filial piety for generations, he was left to serve the emperor by the Empress Dowager Shao.
Jin Chang was an upright man and dared to offend the majesty of the monarch. Everyone around him was afraid of him. Even Emperor Yuan was in awe of him.
When Jin Chang was seriously ill, Emperor Yuan sent an envoy to ask him what he wanted, and Jin Chang asked for an official title for his younger brother Jin Cen.
Emperor Yuan summoned Jin Cen and made him the envoy's host and guest.
Jin She, the son of Jin Chang, originally served as Zuo Cao. Emperor Yuan appointed Jin She as his minister and sent someone to drive him to the official residence of the Weiwei in the emperor's grand car.
Soon Jin Chang died.
Jin Chang had three sons, Jin She, Jin Can, and Jin Rao.
Jin She was proficient in classics, honest, loyal and moral, and was praised by Confucian scholars.
When he became emperor, he was appointed as the cavalry captain in the imperial palace, commanding the Hu and Yue cavalry of the three auxiliaries.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, Jin She was appointed as the captain of Fengche, and his official position reached Changxin Shaofu.
Jin Shen went to the Xiongnu as an envoy and served successively as the Xiongnu Zhonglang General, the Yue Cavalry Colonel, the Commander-in-Chief of the Pass, and the Prefect of Anding and Shuhai.
Jin Rao was appointed as the captain of the Yue cavalry.
Jin She had two sons, Jintang and Finance, both of whom served as ministers to various Cao, generals and officials.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
而涉之从父弟钦举明经，为太子门大夫，哀帝即位，为太中大夫给事中，钦从父弟迁为尚书令，兄弟用事。
帝祖母傅太后崩，钦使护作，职办，擢为泰山、弘农太守，著威名。
平帝即位，征为大司马司直、京兆尹。
帝年幼，选置师友，大司徒孔光以明经高行为孔氏师，京兆尹金钦以家世忠孝为金氏友。
徙光禄大夫、侍中，秩中二千石，封都成侯。
时，王莽新诛平帝外家卫氏，召明礼少府宗伯凤入说为人后之宜，白令公卿、将军、侍中、朝臣并听，欲以内厉平帝而外塞百姓之议。
钦与族昆弟秺侯当俱封。
初，当曾祖父日磾传子节侯赏，而钦祖父安上传子夷侯常，皆亡子，国绝，故莽封钦、当奉其后。
当母南即莽母功显君同产弟也。
当上南大行为太夫人。
钦因缘谓当： 诏书陈日磾功，亡有赏语。
当名为以孙继祖也，自当为父、祖父立庙。
赏故国君，使大夫主其祭。
时，甄邯在旁，庭叱钦，因劾奏曰： 钦幸得以通经术，超擢侍帷幄，重蒙厚恩，封袭爵号，知圣朝以世有为人后之谊。
前遭故定陶太后背本逆天，孝哀不获厥福，乃者吕宽、卫宝复造奸谋，至于返逆，咸伏厥辜。
translation: 
Jin She's cousin Jin Qin was promoted to the Ming Dynasty, and his official position was Taizimen Dafu. After Emperor Ai came to the throne, he was appointed Taizhong Dafu to Shizhong. Jin Qin's cousin Jin Qian was appointed Shangshuling, and both brothers were in power.
When Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, died, Jin Qin was in charge of the burial. After the incident, he was promoted to the prefect of Taishan and Hongnong, and became famous for his authority.
After Emperor Ping ascended the throne, he was appointed as the Grand Sima Sizhi and Jing Zhaoyin.
Emperor Ping was young and chose to set up mentors and friends. Kong Guang, the great Situ, was chosen as the Master of the Kong family because of his proficiency in Confucian classics and his noble conduct. Jingzhao Yin Jinqin was elected as the friend of the Jin family because of his family's loyalty and filial piety for generations.
He was promoted to the rank of Attendant of Guanglu Dafu, received a salary of two thousand dan, and was granted the title of Marquis.
At that time, Wang Mang had just killed Emperor Hu's uncle, the Wei family, and summoned Mingli Shaofeng Zong Bofeng to the palace to lecture on the behavior of descendants. He ordered the ministers, generals, ministers, and court officials to attend the lecture, hoping to warn Emperor Ping internally and block the discussion of the people externally.
Jin Qin and his cousin Jiehou Jindang were both granted the title of marquis.
It turned out that Jin Hui, the great-grandfather of Jin Dang, passed down the title to his son Jiehou Jinshang, and Jin Qin's grandfather Jin An passed it down to his son Jinchang, the Marquis of Yi. None of them had any sons, and the feudal state was abolished, so Wang Mang rewarded Jin Qin and Jindang as the descendants of Jin Rixi and Jin An.
Jindang's mother Nan is also the sister of Wang Mang's mother Gong Xianjun.
Jin Dang sent a letter to Daxing on behalf of his mother, requesting the title of Tai Fu.
Jin Qin looked for an opportunity and said to Jin Dang: "The edict only talks about Jin Rihun's merits and does not mention the gold reward."
As the grandson of the Jin Dynasty, he inherited his ancestors, so he naturally had to build a temple for his father and grandfather.
Jinshang is the king of the former fiefdom, and he should also ask the doctor to perform sacrifices for him.
Zhen Han was nearby at that time, so he rebuked Jin Qin in the court and impeached him, saying: Jin Qin was lucky enough to be promoted to serve the emperor because of his proficiency in classics. He was also favored and given a title, which made him know that the dynasty has the etiquette and righteousness of being a descendant for generations.
The previous time, the late Empress Dowager Dingtao had forgotten her roots and rebelled against heaven. Xiao Ai was not protected by her. Lu Kuan and Wei Shi also launched treacherous plots and even rebelled against the law.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
太皇太后惩艾悼惧，逆天之咎，非圣诬法，大乱之殃，诚欲奉承天心，遵明圣制，专一为后之谊，以安天下之命，数临正殿，延见群臣，讲习《礼经》。
孙继祖者，谓亡正统持重者也。
赏见嗣日磾，后成为君，持大宗重，则《礼》所谓 尊祖故敬宗 ，大宗不可以绝者也。
钦自知与当俱拜同谊，即数扬言殿省中，教当云云。
当即如其言，则钦亦欲为父明立庙而不入夷侯常庙矣。
进退异言，颇惑众心，乱国大纲，开祸乱原，诬祖不孝，罪莫大焉。
尤非大臣所宜，大不敬。
秺侯当上母南为太夫人，失礼不敬。
莽白太后，下四辅、公卿、大夫、博士、议郎，皆曰： 钦宜以时即罪。
谒者召钦诣诏狱，钦自杀。
translation: 
The Empress Dowager learned from her mistakes and knew the disaster of violating the laws of nature. It was criticized that the saints despised the national laws, which was the root of the chaos. The Empress Dowager sincerely wanted to uphold the will of God, abide by the Mingming Imperial System, and concentrate on the etiquette and justice of being a human being, so as to stabilize the people of the world. She visited the main hall many times to summon the ministers of the imperial court and lecture on the "Book of Rites".
The grandson passed on to his grandfather because there was no legitimate descendant to carry on the ancestral temple rituals.
Jinshang succeeded Jinrixi, and later became the feudal lord, presiding over the large ancestral temple sacrifices. This is what the "Li" said: "If you can respect the ancestors, you can respect the ancestral temple." The large ancestral line cannot be cut off.
Jin Qin himself knew that he and Jin Dang should abide by the same moral standards when being consecrated together, so he threatened many times in the palace to teach Jin Dang how to behave.
If Jin Dang did what Jin Qin said, then Jin Qin would also want to build an ancestral temple for his father Jin Ming instead of entering Yihou Jinchang's temple.
This person's contradictory words can confuse people's hearts, disrupt the country's order, open up the source of disaster, deceive the ancestors, and behave unfilially. There is no greater sin than this.
And this is not what a minister should do, it is really disrespectful.
Zhenhou Jin then submitted a letter asking for his mother to be granted the title of Mrs. Nanfeng, which was disrespectful and disrespectful.
Wang Mang told the Queen Mother about this, and also asked the four assistants, ministers, officials, doctors, Yilang, etc. to discuss it. They all said: Jin Qin should be questioned immediately.
The visitor summoned Jin Qin to the prison where the prisoners were detained under the imperial edict. Jin Qin committed suicide.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
邯以纲纪国体，亡所阿私，忠孝尤著，益封千户。
更封长信少府涉子右曹汤为都成侯。
汤受封日，不敢还归家，以明为人后之谊。
益封为后，莽复用钦弟遵，封侯，历九卿位。
赞曰：霍光以结发内侍，起于阶闼之间，确然秉志，谊形于主。
受襁褓之托，任汉室之寄，当庙堂，拥幼君，摧燕王，仆上官，因权制敌，以成其忠。
处废置之际，临大节而不可夺，遂匡国家，安社稷。
拥昭立宣，光为师保，虽周公、阿衡，何以加此！
然光不学亡术，暗于大理，阴妻邪谋，立女为后，湛溺淫溢之欲，以增颠覆之祸，死财三年，宗族诛夷，哀哉！
昔霍叔封于晋，晋即河东，光岂其苗裔乎！
金日磾夷狄亡国，羁虏汉庭，而以笃敬寤主，忠信自著，勒功上将，传国后嗣，世名忠孝，七世内侍，何其盛也！
本以休屠作金人为祭天主，故因赐姓金氏云。
translation: 
Zhen Han was granted the title of "Thousand Households of the Imperial City" because he upheld the state system without flattery or selfishness, and had outstanding loyalty and filial piety.
He also granted Youcao Jintang, the son of Jin She, the Shaofu governor of Changxin, the title of Marquis of Ducheng.
On the day when Jintang was enshrined, he did not dare to return home to show the meaning of being a human being.
After the title was granted, Wang Mang appointed Jin Qin's younger brother Jin Zun. He was granted the title of Marquis, and his position reached the rank of Jiuqing.
The praise said: Huo Guang has served the emperor since he was a child. He rose up in the palace. His firm ambition and moral deeds were appreciated by the emperor.
Later, he accepted the entrustment of assisting the young master and shouldered the hopes of the Han Dynasty. He presided over the court, supported the young monarch, destroyed King Yan's rebellion, thwarted Shangguan Jie's conspiracy, and relied on power to subdue the enemy, which achieved his loyalty.
At the juncture of the emperor's dethronement and the great festival, but his ambition remained unchanged, he was able to rectify the country and stabilize the country.
Supported Emperor Zhao, established Emperor Xuan, and Huo Guang served as the guardian. Even Zhou Gong and A Heng could not surpass Huo Guang!
However, Huo Guang was ignorant and ignorant of Dharma. He concealed his wife's treacherous plot and made his daughter the queen. He indulged in his unsatisfied desire, which added to the disaster of destruction. Only three years after his death, the entire clan was wiped out. How sad!
In the past, Uncle Huo had his kingdom in Jin, which is east of Hedong. Is Huo Guang his descendant?
Jin Rixi was a member of a minority group. He was imprisoned as a prisoner in the Han court after the fall of the country. With his piety and respect, he impressed the emperor. He was known for his loyalty and trustworthiness. He was named a general for his meritorious service and passed the title to his descendants. He was famous for his loyalty and filial piety for generations. He was a chamberlain for seven generations. What a prosperity this was!
Originally, Xiutu was given the surname Jin because he made a golden man to worship the gods.


