Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 9, 11]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
绛侯周勃者，沛人也。
其先卷人，徙沛。
勃以织薄曲为生，常为人吹箫给丧事，材官引彊。
高祖之为沛公初起，勃以中涓从攻胡陵，下方与。
方与反，与战，卻適。
攻丰。击秦军砀东。还军留及萧。
复攻砀，破之。下下邑，先登。
赐爵五大夫。
攻蒙、虞，取之。
击章邯车骑，殿。
定魏地。攻爰戚、东缗，以往至栗，取之。
攻齧桑，先登。
击秦军阿下，破之。
追至濮阳，下甄城。
攻都关、定陶，袭取宛朐，得单父令。
夜袭取临济，攻张，以前至卷，破之。
击李由军雍丘下。
攻开封，先至城下为多。
後章邯破杀项梁，沛公与项羽引兵东如砀。
自初起沛还至砀，一岁二月。
楚怀王封沛公号安武侯，为砀郡长。
沛公拜勃为虎贲令，以令从沛公定魏地。
攻东郡尉於城武，破之。
击王离军，破之。
攻长社，先登。
攻颍阳、缑氏，绝河津。
击赵贲军尸北。
南攻南阳守齮，破武关、峣关。
破秦军於蓝田，至咸阳，灭秦。
项羽至，以沛公为汉王。
汉王赐勃爵为威武侯。
从入汉中，拜为将军。
还定三秦，至秦，赐食邑怀德。
攻槐里、好畤，最。
击赵贲、内史保於咸阳，最。
translation: 
Jianghou Zhou Bo was a native of Peixian County.
His ancestors were from Juan County and later moved to Peixian County.
Zhou Bo made a living by weaving silkworm foil, and often played the flute and played dirges at other people's funerals. Later, he became a warrior who could draw a strong bow.
When Gaozu was first called Pei Gong and he just raised his army, Zhou Bo followed Gaozu as an attendant to attack Huling and attack Fangyu.
Fang Yu rebelled, and Zhou Bo fought with them and repelled the enemy.
Afterwards, they attacked Fengyi and attacked the Qin army east of Dang County. The army returned to Liu County and Xiao County.
Attacked Dangjun again, finally broke through and captured Xiayi. Zhou Bo was the first to scale the city wall.
Emperor Gaozu gave him the title of Fifth Doctor.
Later, they attacked the two cities of Meng and Yu and captured them all.
When attacking Zhang Han's chariot and cavalry troops, Zhou Bo made a low-level contribution.
After the Wei Dynasty was pacified, they attacked Yuanqi and Dongmin, all the way to Li County, and captured all these places.
When attacking Zhisang, Zhou Bo was the first to ascend the city.
Attacked the Qin army under Dong'a City and defeated them.
He pursued to Puyang and captured Zhencheng.
He attacked Duguan and Dingtao, attacked and captured Wanqu, and captured Shan's father's county magistrate.
They captured Linji with a night attack, attacked Shouzhang, and then moved forward to Juan County and captured it.
Attacked Qin general Li You's army at Yongqiu City.
When attacking Kaifeng, Zhou Bo arrived at the city first and made military exploits.
Later Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang's army and killed Xiang Liang. Peigong Liu Bang and Xiang Yu led their troops eastward back to Dang County.
From the time he started raising troops in Pei County to the time he returned to Dang County, it took a total of one year and two months.
King Huai of Chu gave Duke Pei the title of Marquis of Anwu and made him the governor of Dang County.
Peigong appointed Zhou Bo to follow Peiping in the position of Huben Ling to determine the territory of Wei.
In Chengwu, he attacked the army of Dongjun Commandery and defeated them.
Attacked Qin General Wang Li's army and defeated them.
Attacking Changshe, Zhou Bo was the first to ascend the city.
Attacked Yingyang and Fengshi and cut off the crossing of the Yellow River.
Attack Zhao Ben's army north of Xixiang.
Then he went south to attack Nanyang County and defeated Wuguan and Yaoguan.
Defeated the Qin army in Lantian, marched to Xianyang, and destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
After Xiang Yu arrived in Xianyang, he named Peigong King of Han.
The title given to Zhou Bo by the King of Han was Marquis of Weiwu.
Zhou Bo followed the King of Han into Hanzhong and was appointed general.
The Han army returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. After arriving in Qin, the King of Han gave Huaide to Zhou Bo as a food town.
He attacked Huaili and Haoji and achieved great success.
In Xianyang, he attacked Zhao Bi and Nei Shibao and made great achievements.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhou Bo, a native of Peixian County, began his career as a weaver and funeral musician before becoming a warrior. He followed Liu Bang (later Emperor Gaozu) from the early days of his uprising, participating in numerous battles against the Qin dynasty and other forces. Zhou Bo distinguished himself in combat, often being the first to scale city walls, and was granted titles and rewards, including the Marquis of Weiwu and later the Marquis of Jiang, with a fief of 8,180 households. He continued to serve as a general under Gaozu, suppressing rebellions by Zang Tu, Han Xin, Chen Xi, and Lu Wan, pacifying many counties and capturing numerous enemy officials. Zhou Bo was known for his simplicity, strength, and loyalty, though he had little regard for scholarly learning.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
勃为人木彊敦厚，高帝以为可属大事。
勃不好文学，每召诸生说士，东乡坐而责之： 趣为我语。
其椎少文如此。
勃既定燕而归，高祖已崩矣，以列侯事孝惠帝。
孝惠帝六年，置太尉官，以勃为太尉。
十岁，高后崩。
吕禄以赵王为汉上将军，吕产以吕王为汉相国，秉汉权，欲危刘氏。
勃为太尉，不得入军门。陈平为丞相，不得任事。
於是勃与平谋，卒诛诸吕而立孝文皇帝。
其语在吕后、孝文事中。
文帝既立，以勃为右丞相，赐金五千斤，食邑万户。
居月馀，人或说勃曰： 君既诛诸吕，立代王，威震天下，而君受厚赏，处尊位，以宠，久之即祸及身矣。 勃惧，亦自危，乃谢请归相印。
上许之。
岁馀，丞相平卒，上复以勃为丞相。
十馀月，上曰： 前日吾诏列侯就国，或未能行，丞相吾所重，其率先之。
乃免相就国。
translation: 
Zhou Bo was a simple, strong, honest and loyal man. Emperor Gaozu believed that he could entrust him with important matters.
Zhou Bo didn't like literature and learning. Whenever he summoned Confucian scholars and lobbyists, he would sit facing east and ask them: Tell me quickly!
His simple young literary talent is like this.
After Zhou Bo pacified Yan, he returned to the dynasty. Gaozu had passed away, and he served Emperor Hui as a prince.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign, the official position of Taiwei was established and Zhou Bo was appointed as Taiwei.
Ten years later, Empress Lu died.
Lu Lu served as the general of the Han Dynasty as King Zhao, and Lu Chan served as the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty as King Lu. They controlled the political power of the Han Dynasty and wanted to overthrow the Liu family.
Zhou Bo, as a lieutenant, could not enter the military camp; Chen Ping, as a prime minister, could not handle government affairs.
So Zhou Bo and Chen Ping planned to finally annihilate the Lu family and establish Emperor Xiaowen.
The intercession on this matter is recorded in "The Chronicles of Empress Dowager Lu" and "The Chronicles of Xiaowen".
After Emperor Wen came to the throne, he appointed Zhou Bo as the right prime minister, and gave him five thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households with food. More than a month later, someone persuaded Zhou Bo: You have killed the Lu family and established King Dai as the emperor, which is powerful in the world.
You receive generous rewards and are in a distinguished position. If you are favored like this, disaster will befall you over time. Zhou Bo was afraid and felt that he was in danger, so he resigned and asked for the return of the seal.
The emperor agreed to his request.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Chen Ping passed away. The emperor appointed Zhou Bo as prime minister.
After more than ten months, the emperor said: A few days ago, I ordered all the princes to go to their fiefdoms. Some of them have not left yet. Prime Minister, you are a person I value very much. I hope you will take the lead and go first!
So he was relieved of his position as prime minister and returned to his fiefdom.

summary:
summary line 1: After Gaozu's death, Zhou Bo served Emperor Hui as a prince and later as Taiwei. Following Empress Lu's death, the Lu family attempted to seize power. Zhou Bo, alongside Chen Ping, plotted to annihilate the Lu clan and established Emperor Wen. For this, he was appointed Right Prime Minister and given generous rewards. However, fearing his own power, he resigned and returned to his fief. Later, he was falsely accused of rebellion, imprisoned, and humiliated by jailers. He was eventually released after his daughter (the emperor's daughter-in-law) and Empress Dowager Bo interceded. He died in the eleventh year of Emperor Wen's reign, posthumously titled Marquis Wu.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
由此梁孝王与太尉有卻。
归，复置太尉官。五岁，迁为丞相，景帝甚重之。
景帝废栗太子，丞相固争之，不得。
景帝由此疏之。
而梁孝王每朝，常与太后言条侯之短。
窦太后曰： 皇后兄王信可侯也。
景帝让曰： 始南皮、章武侯先帝不侯，及臣即位乃侯之。
信未得封也。
窦太后曰： 人主各以时行耳。
自窦长君在时，竟不得侯，死後乃其子彭祖顾得侯。吾甚恨之。帝趣侯信也！
景帝曰： 请得与丞相议之。
丞相议之，亚夫曰： 高皇帝约 非刘氏不得王，非有功不得侯。不如约，天下共击之 。
今信虽皇后兄，无功，侯之，非约也。
景帝默然而止。
其後匈奴王徐卢等五人降，景帝欲侯之以劝後。
丞相亚夫曰： 彼背其主降陛下，陛下侯之，则何以责人臣不守节者乎？
景帝曰： 丞相议不可用。
乃悉封徐卢等为列侯。
亚夫因谢病。
景帝中三年，以病免相。
顷之，景帝居禁中，召条侯，赐食。
translation: 
But because of this counterinsurgency. However, King Xiao of Liang had a grudge against the Taiwei.
After Zhou Yafu returned to the court, the imperial court re-established Taiwei officials, Zhou Yafu was promoted to prime minister, and Emperor Jing valued him very much.
Later, Emperor Jing deposed Prince Li. Prime Minister Zhou Yafu tried his best to argue but failed to dissuade him.
Emperor Jing distanced himself from him.
Every time King Xiao of Liang came to Beijing for an audience, he often told the Queen Mother about Zhou Yafu's shortcomings.
One day, Queen Mother Dou said: The queen's brother Wang Xin can be made a marquis.
Emperor Jing declined and said: At first, the late Emperor Nanpihou and Zhangwuhou did not make them marquises. They waited until I came to the throne to make them marquises.
It is not the time to make Wang Xin a marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou said: The monarchs all act according to the situation at that time.
When my brother Dou Changjun was alive, he could not be granted the title of marquis. After his death, his son Peng Zu was granted the title of marquis instead. I regret this very much. Your Majesty, please make Wang Xin a marquis as soon as possible!
Emperor Jing said: This matter needs to be discussed with the Prime Minister.
Emperor Jing discussed with the prime minister, and Zhou Yafu said: Emperor Gao had stipulated that people who were not from the Liu family could not be crowned kings, and people who had not made meritorious deeds could not be crowned marquis. Anyone who did not abide by this rule could be attacked by everyone in the world.
Although Wang Xin is the elder brother of the queen, he has no meritorious service. Making him a marquis is against the Emperor Gaozu's protocol.
Emperor Jing was speechless after hearing this and had to give up.
Later, the Xiongnu king Wei Xulu and five others surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Jing wanted to make them marquis to encourage those who came after them.
Prime Minister Zhou Yafu said: A few of them betrayed their monarch and surrendered to Your Majesty. If Your Majesty makes them marquis, how can you blame the unruly ministers?
Emperor Jing said: The Prime Minister's opinion cannot be adopted.
So Wei Xulu and others were all made marquises.
Zhou Yafu therefore claimed to be ill and retired to his home.
In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, Zhou Yafu was dismissed as prime minister due to illness.
Soon, Emperor Jing summoned Tiaohou in the palace and rewarded him with food and wine.

summary:
summary line 2: Zhou Bo's son Zhou Shengzhi inherited the title but lost it due to murder. Emperor Wen then selected Zhou Yafu, another son, as Marquis of Tiao. Xu Negation predicted Zhou Yafu would be a marquis, general, and prime minister but would starve to death. Zhou Yafu became a general, famously commanding the Xiliu camp with strict discipline, impressing Emperor Wen. During the Rebellion of the Seven States, he served as Taiwei, successfully defeating Wu and Chu by cutting off their food supplies, though this earned him the enmity of King Xiao of Liang. He later became prime minister but fell out of favor with Emperor Jing over disputes regarding the appointment of marquises, including opposing the enfeoffment of the queen's brother Wang Xin and Xiongnu defectors.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
因不食五日，呕血而死。
国除。
绝一岁，景帝乃更封绛侯勃他子坚为平曲侯，续绛侯後。
十九年卒，谥为共侯。
子建德代侯，十三年，为太子太傅。
坐酎金不善，元鼎五年，有罪，国除。
条侯果饿死。
死後，景帝乃封王信为盖侯。
太史公曰：绛侯周勃始为布衣时，鄙朴人也，才能不过凡庸。
及从高祖定天下，在将相位，诸吕欲作乱，勃匡国家难，复之乎正。
虽伊尹、周公，何以加哉！
亚夫之用兵，持威重，执坚刃，穰苴曷有加焉！
足己而不学，守节不逊，终以穷困。悲夫！
translation: 
Zhou Yafu didn't eat for five days, vomited blood and died.
His fiefdom was removed.
Zhou Yafu's title was suspended for a year, so Emperor Jing changed the title of Zhou Jian, another son of Jianghou Zhou Bo, to Pingquhou, and succeeded Jianghou's title.
Zhou Jian died after reigning for 19 years, and his posthumous title was Gonghou.
His son Jiande succeeded him as marquis. Thirteen years later, Zhou Jiande was appointed as the prince's tutor.
Due to the poor quality of the gold offered as an acolyte, he was found guilty in the fifth year of Yuanding and his fiefdom was abolished.
Tiao Hou Zhou Yafu really starved to death.
After his death, Emperor Jing granted Wang Xin the title of Gaihou.
Tai Shigong said: When Jiang Hou Zhou Bo was a commoner, he was a rough and simple man, and his talents were no more than mediocre.
When he followed Gao Zu to bring peace to the world, he took up the position of general. The Lu family wanted to rebel and cause rebellion. Zhou Bo saved the country from crisis and restored the court to normal.
How can even wise men like Yi Yin and Duke Zhou surpass him?
Zhou Yafu always maintained dignity and perseverance in his military use. How could a famous general like Sima Ranju surpass him?
It's a pity that he was complacent but not open-minded to learn. He was able to observe moral integrity but did not know how to be respectful. In the end, he ended up in embarrassment. How sad!

summary:
summary line 3: Zhou Yafu was eventually dismissed as prime minister. After a banquet where he showed dissatisfaction with the lack of chopsticks, Emperor Jing viewed him as unfit for service. His son's purchase of burial armor led to accusations of rebellion. Zhou Yafu was imprisoned, refused to eat for five days, and died of vomiting blood. His fief was abolished. Sima Qian commented that while Zhou Bo saved the state from crisis, Zhou Yafu, despite his military dignity, lacked humility and met a tragic end.

