Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 10, 2]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
匈奴，其先祖夏后氏之苗裔也，曰淳维。
唐虞以上有山戎、獫狁、荤粥，居于北蛮，随畜牧而转移。
其畜之所多则马、牛、羊，其奇畜则橐扆、驴骡、駃騠、騊駼、驒騱。
逐水草迁徙，毋城郭常处耕田之业，然亦各有分地。
毋文书，以言语为约束。
兒能骑羊，引弓射鸟鼠；少长则射狐兔：用为食。
士力能毌弓，尽为甲骑。
其俗，宽则随畜，因射猎禽兽为生业，急则人习战攻以侵伐，其天性也。
其长兵则弓矢，短兵则刀鋋。
利则进，不利则退，不羞遁走。
苟利所在，不知礼义。
自君王以下，咸食畜肉，衣其皮革，被旃裘。
壮者食肥美，老者食其馀。
贵壮健，贱老弱。
父死，妻其後母；兄弟死，皆取其妻妻之。
其俗有名不讳，而无姓字。
夏道衰，而公刘失其稷官，变于西戎，邑于豳。
其後三百有馀岁，戎狄攻大王亶父，亶父亡走岐下，而豳人悉从亶父而邑焉，作周。
其後百有馀岁，周西伯昌伐畎夷氏。
後十有馀年，武王伐纣而营雒邑，复居于酆鄗，放逐戎夷泾、洛之北，以时入贡，命曰 荒服 。
其後二百有馀年，周道衰，而穆王伐犬戎，得四白狼四白鹿以归。
自是之後，荒服不至。
於是周遂作甫刑之辟。
穆王之後二百有馀年，周幽王用宠姬襃姒之故，与申侯有卻。
申侯怒而与犬戎共攻杀周幽王于骊山之下，遂取周之焦穫，而居于泾渭之间，侵暴中国。
秦襄公救周，於是周平王去酆鄗而东徙雒邑。
当是之时，秦襄公伐戎至岐，始列为诸侯。
translation: 
The ancestor of the Xiongnu was a descendant of the Xiahou family, named Chunwei.
Before Yao and Shun of the Tang Dynasty, there were Shanrong, yangxu and Xunzhu, who lived in the wild land in the north and moved with the livestock activities.
Most of their livestock are horses, cattle, and sheep, and their unique livestock are camels, donkeys, and mules? Fan Jun, Fan Dao.
They migrated in pursuit of water and grass. They did not have permanent urban settlements or agricultural production, but they also had their own share of pasture land.
There are no words or books, only words are used to restrain each other.
A child can ride a sheep, draw a bow and shoot birds and mice; an older child can shoot foxes and rabbits for food.
The men all had the strength to draw their bows, and they were all cavalry in armor.
Their custom is that they nomadically roam at will and take hunting animals as their occupation; when the situation is urgent, everyone will practice combat and carry out invasions and conquests. This is their nature.
Their long weapons were bows and arrows, and their short weapons were knives and small spears with iron handles.
Attack when the situation is favorable, retreat when the situation is unfavorable, and do not be ashamed of running away.
If you can get benefits, you don't know what etiquette is.
From the king down, everyone eats the meat of livestock, wears the leather of livestock, and wears fur coats.
Strong people eat rich food, and old people eat leftovers.
Respect the strong and look down upon the old and the infirm.
When the father dies, the son takes his stepmother as his wife; when the brother dies, the surviving brothers all take the wife of the deceased brother.
Their customs are famous but not taboo, and they have no surnames or given names.
When the Xia Dynasty was in political decline, Gong Liu lost his position as Ji official, implemented reforms in Xirong, built a city in Bindi and settled there.
More than 300 years later, the Rongdi tribe attacked Zhou Tai Wang Dan's father, and his father fled to the foot of Qishan. The people of Bindi followed his father to the foot of Qishan, built a city here, and established the Zhou Kingdom.
More than a hundred years later, Jichang, Bo of the Western Zhou Dynasty, attacked the Yi clan.
More than ten years later, King Wu of Zhou attacked King Zhou of Shang and built Luoyi. He returned to live in Fengjing and Haojing. He expelled the Rongyi to the north of Jingshui and Luoshui, and asked them to pay tribute to Zhou on time, which was called "Huangfu".
Over the next two hundred years, when the Zhou Dynasty was in political decline, King Mu of Zhou conquered the Dog Rong and returned after obtaining four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, the Rong and Yi people in Huangfu no longer came to Haojing to pay tribute.
So the Zhou Dynasty formulated the regulations of "Fu Xing".
More than two hundred years after King Mu, King You of Zhou had a grudge against Marquis Shen because of his favor with Bao Si.
The Marquis of Shen was angry, so he and Quan Rong attacked and killed King Zhou You under Mount Li. The Quan Rong captured the Jiaohuo land of the Zhou Dynasty, and the monarch invaded the Central Plains area along the Jing River and the Wei River.
At this time, Qin Xianggong came to the rescue of the Zhou Dynasty, so King Zhou Ping left Fengjing and Haojing and moved eastward to Luoyi.
At this time, Qin Xianggong attacked the Rong people and came to Qishan, and began to be named a prince.
summary:
The Xiongnu, whose ancestor was Chunwei, a descendant of the Xia dynasty, were a nomadic people living in the northern wilds. They moved with their livestock—horses, cattle, sheep, camels, and donkeys—in search of water and pasture, without permanent cities or agriculture. They had no written language, relying on oral agreements. From childhood, they learned archery and riding, and all men were armored cavalry. Their customs prioritized warfare and plunder, favoring attack when advantageous and retreating without shame. They respected the strong and disdained the weak, practiced levirate marriage, and had no taboo against using personal names. Their leaders were called Chanyu, and they held seasonal gatherings for sacrifices and censuses. Laws were harsh, with punishments for murder and theft, and burial practices included human sacrifice for the Chanyu.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
当是之时，东胡彊而月氏盛。
匈奴单于曰头曼，头曼不胜秦，北徙。
十馀年而蒙恬死，诸侯畔秦，中国扰乱，诸秦所徙適戍边者皆复去，於是匈奴得宽，复稍度河南与中国界於故塞。
单于有太子名冒顿。
後有所爱阏氏，生少子，而单于欲废冒顿而立少子，乃使冒顿质於月氏。冒顿既质於月氏，而头曼急击月氏。月氏欲杀冒顿，冒顿盗其善马，骑之亡归。
头曼以为壮，令将万骑。
冒顿乃作为鸣镝，习勒其骑射，令曰： 鸣镝所射而不悉射者，斩之。
行猎鸟兽，有不射鸣镝所射者，辄斩之。
已而冒顿以鸣镝自射其善马，左右或不敢射者，冒顿立斩不射善马者。
居顷之，复以鸣镝自射其爱妻，左右或颇恐，不敢射，冒顿又复斩之。
居顷之，冒顿出猎，以鸣镝射单于善马，左右皆射之。
於是冒顿知其左右皆可用。
从其父单于头曼猎，以鸣镝射头曼，其左右亦皆随鸣镝而射杀单于头曼，遂尽诛其後母与弟及大臣不听从者。
冒顿自立为单于。
冒顿既立，是时东胡彊盛，闻冒顿杀父自立，乃使使谓冒顿，欲得头曼时有千里马。
冒顿问群臣，群臣皆曰： 千里马，匈奴宝马也，勿与。
冒顿曰： 柰何与人邻国而爱一马乎？
遂与之千里马。
居顷之，东胡以为冒顿畏之，乃使使谓冒顿，欲得单于一阏氏。
冒顿复问左右，左右皆怒曰： 东胡无道，乃求阏氏！请击之。
冒顿曰： 柰何与人邻国爱一女子乎？
遂取所爱阏氏予东胡。
东胡王愈益骄，西侵。
与匈奴间，中有弃地，莫居，千馀里，各居其边为瓯脱。
东胡使使谓冒顿曰： 匈奴所与我界瓯脱外弃地，匈奴非能至也，吾欲有之。
冒顿问群臣，群臣或曰： 此弃地，予之亦可，勿予亦可。
於是冒顿大怒曰： 地者，国之本也，柰何予之！
诸言予之者，皆斩之。
冒顿上马，令国中有後者斩，遂东袭击东胡。
东胡初轻冒顿，不为备。
及冒顿以兵至，击，大破灭东胡王，而虏其民人及畜产。
既归，西击走月氏，南并楼烦、白羊河南王。
悉复收秦所使蒙恬所夺匈奴地者，与汉关故河南塞，至朝、肤施，遂侵燕、代。
是时汉兵与项羽相距，中国罢於兵革，以故冒顿得自彊，控弦之士三十馀万。
自淳维以至头曼千有馀岁，时大时小，别散分离，尚矣，其世传不可得而次云。
然至冒顿而匈奴最彊大，尽服从北夷，而南与中国为敌国，其世传国官号乃可得而记云。
translation: 
At this time, Donghu was strong and Yuezhi was prosperous.
The Xiongnu's Chanyu was called Touman. Touman could not defeat Qin, so he moved north.
More than ten years later, Meng Tian died, the princes betrayed Qin, the Central Plains was in chaos, and those who were exiled by Qin to guard the borders also left here. So the Xiongnu got a chance to relax, and gradually crossed the Yellow River, and connected with the old pass in the Central Plains to the south of the Yellow River.
The Chanyu had a prince named Maodun. Later, the Yu family whom the Chanyu loved gave birth to a young son.
The Chanyu wanted to depose Mao Dun and make his younger son the crown prince, so he sent Mao Dun to Yuezhi as a hostage. Mao Dun had already come to Yuezhi as a hostage, but Touman rushed to attack Yuezhi. Yuezhi wanted to kill Mao Dun, but Mo Dun stole Yuezhi's good horse and rode it back to the Huns.
Touman thought he was brave and ordered him to command ten thousand cavalry.
Mao Dun made a kind of sounding arrow, trained his men in horseback archery, and ordered: "Anyone who does not follow me and shoot at the target with my sounding arrow will be beheaded."
First, he shot at birds and beasts. If someone failed to hit the target with his arrow, Mao Dun killed him.
Soon, Mao Dun shot his own good horse with a resounding arrow. Those on his left and right did not dare to shoot, so Mao Dun immediately killed them.
After some time, Mao Dun shot his beloved wife with a loud arrow again. Some of the people around him were frightened and did not dare to shoot, so Mao Dun killed them again.
A few days later, Maodun went out hunting and shot Shanyu's good horse with a loud arrow, and everyone on the left and right followed suit.
So Modu knew that the people around him were all useful people.
He went hunting with Shan Yu Tou Man and shot Tou Man in the head with a ringing arrow. The people on his left and right also followed the sound arrows and shot Shan Yu Tou Man to death. Then he killed all his stepmother, younger brother and disobedient ministers.
Maodun established himself as a Chanyu.
After Mao Dun became a chanyu, Donghu was powerful and prosperous at that time. When he heard that Mao Dun had killed his father and established himself, he sent an envoy to Mao Dun to tell him that he wanted to get Tou Manshi's thousand-mile horse.
Mao Dun asked the officials, and they all said: "The Chollima is the Xiongnu's BMW, don't give it to me."
Mao Dun said: How can we be stingy of a horse even though we are neighboring countries?
So he gave the Chollima to Dong Hu.
After a while, Dong Hu thought that Mao Dun was afraid of him, so he sent an envoy to Mao Dun to tell him that he wanted one of Shan Yu's clans.
Mao Dun asked the ministers on the left and right again, and they all got angry and said: Donghu is unreasonable. He actually wants the Yan family. Please send troops to attack him.
Mao Dun said: How can you be the leader of a country with someone else but begrudge a woman?
So he gave his beloved Yan family to Donghu.
King Donghu became more and more proud and invaded and invaded westward.
There is an open space between the Donghu and the Xiongnu, which is more than a thousand miles away. No one lives in it. Both sides have built outposts on both sides of the open space.
Donghu sent an envoy to Modu and said: You Xiongnu cannot go to the open space outside the border post between the Xiongnu and us. We want to occupy it.
Mao Dun asked the officials for their opinions. Some of them said: This is an abandoned vacant land. You can give it to them or not.
So Modu was furious and said: Land is the foundation of the country, how can we give it to them!
Those who said they would give Donghu free space were killed.
Maodun mounted his horse and ordered anyone in the country who retreated to be beheaded, so he headed east to attack Donghu.
Donghu initially despised the Xiongnu and therefore did not take precautions.
When Mao Dun arrived with his troops, he defeated Donghu as soon as the war started, wiped out the king of Donghu, captured the people of Donghu and plundered their livestock and property.
After the Huns returned from Maodun, they defeated the Yuezhi in the west and annexed Loufan and the Aries Henan King in the south.
And completely recovered the land that Meng Tian of the Qin faction had taken from the Huns, and the original Henan fortress was the boundary with the Han Dynasty, as far as Chao and Fushi, and then invaded Yan and Dai.
At this time, the Han army was fighting against Xiang Yu's troops. The Central Plains area was exhausted by the war, so Maodun was able to become strong on his own, with an army of more than 300,000 people who could draw bows and shoot arrows.
It was more than a thousand years from Chunwei to Touman. The power of the Xiongnu grew and fell, and they often dispersed and differentiated. Because of the long time, their lineages cannot be arranged in sequence.
But when Maodun was the Chanyu, the Huns were the most powerful, making the northern barbarians completely submit to their rule and becoming an enemy of China in the south. After that, their lineage and national official titles could be recorded.
summary:
Historically, the Xiongnu and their predecessors, such as the Shanrong and Xunzhu, interacted with Chinese dynasties. During the Zhou dynasty, King Mu of Zhou campaigned against the Dog Rong, and later, King You of Zhou was killed by the Quanrong, leading to the Zhou capital's eastward move. The Qin dynasty, under Qin Shihuang, sent Meng Tian to drive the Xiongnu from the Ordos region and built the Great Wall. After Qin's fall, the Xiongnu regained strength under Chanyu Touman, who was killed by his son Modun. Modun, after training his troops with a signaling arrow, usurped power and expanded Xiongnu territory, defeating the Donghu, Yuezhi, and other tribes, and amassing over 300,000 cavalry. He established a hierarchical structure with left and right kings, generals, and officials, and his rule marked the Xiongnu's peak, making them a major threat to the Han dynasty. The historian Sima Qian notes that the Xiongnu's nomadic lifestyle and martial culture made them formidable adversaries. He criticizes Han officials for short-sighted policies and emphasizes the importance of selecting capable generals, as even wise rulers like Yao needed talented ministers to achieve success. The Xiongnu's lineage, from Chunwei to Modun, spanned over a thousand years, with their power fluctuating until Modun unified them. Their social structure, with hereditary titles and a focus on warfare, allowed them to dominate the northern steppes and challenge Chinese authority for centuries.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
後北服浑庾、屈射、丁零、鬲昆、薪犁之国。
於是匈奴贵人大臣皆服，以冒顿单于为贤。
是时汉初定中国，徙韩王信於代，都马邑。
匈奴大攻围马邑，韩王信降匈奴。
匈奴得信，因引兵南逾句注，攻太原，至晋阳下。
高帝自将兵往击之。会冬大寒雨雪，卒之堕指者十二三，於是冒顿详败走，诱汉兵。
汉兵逐击冒顿，冒顿匿其精兵，见其羸弱，於是汉悉兵，多步兵，三十二万，北逐之。
高帝先至平城，步兵未尽到，冒顿纵精兵四十万骑围高帝於白登，七日，汉兵中外不得相救饷。
匈奴骑，其西方尽白马，东方尽青駹马，北方尽乌骊马，南方尽骍马。
高帝乃使使间厚遗阏氏，阏氏乃谓冒顿曰： 两主不相困。
今得汉地，而单于终非能居之也。
且汉王亦有神，单于察之。
冒顿与韩王信之将王黄、赵利期，而黄、利兵又不来，疑其与汉有谋，亦取阏氏之言，乃解围之一角。
於是高帝令士皆持满傅矢外乡，从解角直出，竟与大军合，而冒顿遂引兵而去。汉亦引兵而罢，使刘敬结和亲之约。
是後韩王信为匈奴将，及赵利、王黄等数倍约，侵盗代、云中。
居无几何，陈豨反，又与韩信合谋击代。
汉使樊哙往击之，复拔代、雁门、云中郡县，不出塞。
是时匈奴以汉将众往降，故冒顿常往来侵盗代地。
於是汉患之，高帝乃使刘敬奉宗室女公主为单于阏氏，岁奉匈奴絮缯酒米食物各有数，约为昆弟以和亲，冒顿乃少止。
後燕王卢绾反，率其党数千人降匈奴，往来苦上谷以东。
高祖崩，孝惠、吕太后时，汉初定，故匈奴以骄。
冒顿乃为书遗高后，妄言。
高后欲击之，诸将曰： 以高帝贤武，然尚困於平城。
於是高后乃止，复与匈奴和亲。
至孝文帝初立，复修和亲之事。
其三年五月，匈奴右贤王入居河南地，侵盗上郡葆塞蛮夷，杀略人民。
於是孝文帝诏丞相灌婴发车骑八万五千，诣高奴，击右贤王。
右贤王走出塞。
文帝幸太原。是时济北王反，文帝归，罢丞相击胡之兵。
其明年，单于遗汉书曰： 天所立匈奴大单于敬问皇帝无恙。前时皇帝言和亲事，称书意，合欢。
汉边吏侵侮右贤王，右贤王不请，听後义卢侯难氏等计，与汉吏相距，绝二主之约，离兄弟之亲。
皇帝让书再至，发使以书报，不来，汉使不至，汉以其故不和，邻国不附。
今以小吏之败约故，罚右贤王，使之西求月氏击之。
以天之福，吏卒良，马彊力，以夷灭月氏，尽斩杀降下之。
定楼兰、乌孙、呼揭及其旁二十六国，皆以为匈奴。
诸引弓之民，并为一家。
translation: 
Later, Maodun conquered the Hungeng, Qushe, Dingling, Gekun, and Xinli kingdoms in the north.
So the nobles and ministers of the Xiongnu were convinced of Mao Dun, thinking that Mao Dun was a virtuous man.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had just pacified China and sent Han Wangxin to Dai to establish the capital city of Mayi.
The Huns attacked Mayi on a large scale, and King Xin of Han surrendered to the Huns.
The Xiongnu got Han Xin, so they led their troops southward across Juzhu Mountain and attacked Taiyuan until they reached the city of Jinyang.
Emperor Gao personally led his troops to attack the Xiongnu. It was so cold and snowy in winter that two or three tenths of the soldiers lost their fingers due to the cold, so Mao Dun pretended to be defeated and escaped to lure the Han army.
The Han army pursued Mao Dun, but Mao Dun hid his elite troops, leaving only some old and weak soldiers. So the Han Dynasty dispatched its entire army, mostly infantry, totaling 320,000 people, to pursue the Xiongnu northward.
Gaodi arrived at Pingcheng first. Before all the infantry arrived, Mao Dun commanded his 400,000 elite cavalry to surround Gaodi on Baishan Mountain. Within seven days, the Han army and the outside world could not help each other with supplies.
The Huns' cavalry was all white horses in the west, green horses in the east, black horses in the north, and red horses in the south.
Emperor Gao sent envoys to secretly give many gifts to the Yan family. The Yan family said to Mao Dun: The kings of the two sides cannot besiege each other.
If he gets the land of the Han Dynasty, Chanyu will not be able to live there after all.
Moreover, the king of Han also had the help of gods and hoped that Shanyu would seriously consider this matter.
Mao Dun and Han Wangxin's generals Wang Huang and Zhao Li agreed on a date for the meeting, but Wang Huang and Zhao Li's troops did not arrive on time. Mao Dun suspected that they had premeditated plans with the Han army, so he adopted Yan's suggestion and lifted a corner of the encirclement.
So Emperor Gao ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully, string their arrows, face outward, and rush out from the passage where Maodun was relieved, and finally met up with the Han army. Maodun then led his troops away, and Emperor Gao also returned with his troops and sent Liu Jing to the Xiongnu to conclude a peace treaty.
After that, Han Wangxin became the general of the Xiongnu. He, Zhao Li and Wang Huang repeatedly violated the covenant between Han and the Xiongnu and invaded and plundered Daijun and Yunzhongjun.
Not long after, Chen Xi, a general of the Han Dynasty, rebelled and conspired with Han Xin to attack Daidi.
The Han Dynasty sent Fan Kuai to stop them and re-captured Daijun, Yanmen and Yunzhong counties, but did not cross the border fortress.
At this time, because some generals of the Han Dynasty came to surrender to the Xiongnu, Maodun often traveled to Dai to carry out intrusion and robbery activities.
So the Han Dynasty was worried about this, and Emperor Gao sent Liu Jing to send the princess of the Han Dynasty royal family to the Chanyu family, and gave a certain amount of cotton wool, bamboo silk, wine, rice and food to the Xiongnu every year.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled and led thousands of his followers to surrender to the Huns. They traveled east of the Shanggu and caused suffering to the local people.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, during the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu, the Han Dynasty had just settled down, so the Xiongnu seemed proud.
Maodun wrote to the Empress Dowager Lu, talking nonsense.
Empress Dowager Lu wanted to attack him, but the generals said: With Emperor Gao's wisdom and martial arts, he was besieged in Pingcheng.
So Queen Mother Lu gave up her idea of ​​attacking and made peace with the Xiongnu.
When Emperor Xiaowen just succeeded to the throne, he promoted the marriage plan.
In May of the third year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Youxian of the Xiongnu entered Henan to live, harassed and plundered the barbarians in the small border towns, and massacred and plundered the people.
So Emperor Xiaowen ordered Prime Minister Guan Ying to dispatch 85,000 chariots and cavalry to Gaonu to attack King Youxian.
King Youxian fled outside the wall.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty came to Taiyuan in person. At this time, King Liu Xingju of Jibei rebelled. Emperor Wen returned to the capital and disbanded the army sent by the prime minister to fight the Huns.
The next year, the Chanyu of the Xiongnu sent a letter to the Han Dynasty, saying: The Great Chanyu of the Xiongnu, appointed by heaven, respectfully wishes the emperor peace. Some time ago, the emperor said about the marriage, which was consistent with the meaning of the letter, and both parties were happy.
The officials on the border of the Han Dynasty harassed and insulted King Youxian. King Youxian did not ask the Shanyu for instructions, but listened to the plot of Houyi Luhou Nan and others, resisted the Han Dynasty officials, severed the treaty between the Xiongnu and the Han emperor, and alienated the close brotherly relationship between the Han and the Xiongnu.
The emperor's letter reproaching the Xiongnu came for the second time. We sent an envoy to report the situation, but the envoy was detained by the Han Dynasty and did not return. The Han Dynasty's envoy did not come to the Huns. For this reason, the Han Dynasty did not reconcile with us, and our neighboring countries could not surrender.
Now because the petty officials broke the peace treaty, I punish King Youxian and send him to the west to find the Yuezhi and attack them.
Thanks to the blessing of God, the officials and soldiers were all excellent, and the horses were strong and powerful. Therefore, the Yuezhi were wiped out, all those who resisted and disobeyed were killed, and the common people were subjugated.
Loulan, Wusun, Hujie and the twenty-six countries beside them were pacified, and they all became subjects of the Xiongnu.
Those who were good at bending bows and shooting arrows merged into one family.
summary:
The Han dynasty, after its founding, faced constant Xiongnu raids. Emperor Gaozu was besieged at Pingcheng by Modun but escaped through bribery and a peace treaty involving marriage and tribute. Subsequent rulers, including Empress Dowager Lu and Emperor Wen, maintained this policy despite Xiongnu provocations. The Xiongnu, under Chanyu Laoshang and later Junchen, continued to raid border regions, while Han envoys like Zhonghang Yue, who defected to the Xiongnu, advised them to resist Han cultural influence. The Han dynasty alternated between appeasement and military campaigns, with Emperor Wu launching large-scale offensives led by generals Wei Qing and Huo Qubing, who defeated the Xiongnu in the Ordos and Gobi, capturing key territories and forcing them northward.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
汉将军王恢部出代击胡辎重，闻单于还，兵多，不敢出。
汉以恢本造兵谋而不进，斩恢。
自是之後，匈奴绝和亲，攻当路塞，往往入盗於汉边，不可胜数。
然匈奴贪，尚乐关市，嗜汉财物，汉亦尚关市不绝以中之。
自马邑军後五年之秋，汉使四将军各万骑击胡关市下。
将军卫青出上谷，至茏城，得胡首虏七百人。
公孙贺出云中，无所得。
公孙敖出代郡，为胡所败七千馀人。
李广出雁门，为胡所败，而匈奴生得广，广後得亡归。
汉囚敖、广，敖、广赎为庶人。
其冬，匈奴数入盗边，渔阳尤甚。
汉使将军韩安国屯渔阳备胡。
其明年秋，匈奴二万骑入汉，杀辽西太守，略二千馀人。
胡又入败渔阳太守军千馀人，围汉将军安国，安国时千馀骑亦且尽，会燕救至，匈奴乃去。
匈奴又入雁门，杀略千馀人。
於是汉使将军卫青将三万骑出雁门，李息出代郡，击胡。得首虏数千人。
其明年，卫青复出云中以西至陇西，击胡之楼烦、白羊王於河南，得胡首虏数千，牛羊百馀万。
於是汉遂取河南地，筑朔方，复缮故秦时蒙恬所为塞，因河为固。
汉亦弃上谷之什辟县造阳地以予胡。
是岁，汉之元朔二年也。
其後冬，匈奴军臣单于死。
军臣单于弟左谷蠡王伊稚斜自立为单于，攻破军臣单于太子於单。
於单亡降汉，汉封於单为涉安侯，数月而死。
伊稚斜单于既立，其夏，匈奴数万骑入杀代郡太守恭友，略千馀人。
其秋，匈奴又入雁门，杀略千馀人。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty general Wang Hui's army came out of Daijun to attack the Xiongnu's baggage. He heard that the Chanyu army had returned and there were many soldiers, so he did not dare to attack.
The Han Dynasty believed that Wang Hui was the one who planned the ambush but did not dare to attack, so he killed Wang Hui.
From then on, the Xiongnu broke off their fraternal relations, attacked the frontier fortresses leading to important roads, and often invaded the Han Dynasty's borders to plunder, too many times to count.
However, the Xiongnu were greedy and still liked to exchange customs and markets with the Han Dynasty. They liked the Han Dynasty's property very much. The Han Dynasty still maintained customs and market trade relations with the Xiongnu and catered to their wishes.
In the autumn of the fifth year after the Mayi military campaign, the Han Dynasty sent Wei Qing and other four generals with 10,000 cavalry each to attack the Xiongnu near Guan City.
General Wei Qing led his troops out of Shanggu County and arrived at Fucheng, where they killed and captured more than 700 Xiongnu people.
Gongsun He led his troops out of Yunzhong County, but gained nothing.
Gongsun Ao led his troops out of Daijun and was defeated by the Xiongnu, losing more than 7,000 people.
Li Guang led his troops out of Yanmen County and was defeated by the Huns. The Huns captured Li Guang alive. Later, Li Guang was able to escape and return to the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty imprisoned Gongsun Ao and Li Guang. Gongsun Ao and Li Guang paid a ransom and became common people.
This winter, the Xiongnu repeatedly broke into the border and plundered, and Yuyang suffered particularly badly.
The Han Dynasty sent General Han Anguo to garrison Yuyang to defend against the Xiongnu.
In the autumn of the next year, 20,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded the Han Dynasty, killed the prefect of Liaoxi and took away more than 2,000 people.
The Huns invaded Yuyang again, defeated more than a thousand troops of the Yuyang prefect, and besieged Han Anguo, the general of the Han Dynasty. At this time, Han Anguo's more than a thousand cavalry were about to be wiped out. King Yan's reinforcements happened to arrive, and the Huns left.
The Xiongnu invaded Yanmen County again, killing and taking away more than a thousand people.
So the Han Dynasty sent General Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry out of Yanmen. Li Xi led his troops to force out of Dai County and attacked the Huns, killing and capturing thousands of them.
The next year, Wei Qing went out to the west of Yunzhong County and the Longxi area in the west, and attacked Loufan and Aries Wang under the Xiongnu on the south bank of the Yellow River Hetao. He killed and captured thousands of people and obtained more than one million cattle and sheep.
So the Han Dynasty captured the area on the south bank of the Yellow River Hetao, built Shuofang City, and repaired the pass built by Meng Tian of the Qin Dynasty in the past, relying on the Yellow River as a solid defense line.
The Han Dynasty also gave up the twists and turns of Shanggu County and remote counties such as Zaoyang to the Xiongnu.
This year is the second year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
In the winter of the following year, the Xiongnu military official Chanyu died.
The younger brother of the military minister Chanyu, King Zuoguli Yizhixie, established himself as a Chanyu and defeated the military minister Shanyu's prince Yu Shan.
Yu Dan fled and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty named Yu Shan the Marquis of She'an. He died a few months later.
In the summer after Yi Zhixie Chanyu succeeded to the throne, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded Dai County, killed the prefect Gongyou and looted more than a thousand people.
In the autumn of that year, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen again, killing and taking away more than a thousand people.
summary:
Despite these victories, the Xiongnu remained resilient. After Huo Qubing's death, the Han halted major campaigns, and the Xiongnu, under Chanyu Uwei and his successors, continued to raid and negotiate. The Han attempted to sow discord among Xiongnu leaders and used diplomacy with western states like Wusun to isolate them. However, internal strife and harsh winters weakened the Xiongnu. Later Chanyu, such as Er Chanyu and Huyan, faced rebellions and military defeats, including the capture of Han general Li Ling and the defection of Li Guangli. The Han built fortifications and expanded into the Hexi Corridor, but the Xiongnu persisted in their raids, leading to a prolonged stalemate.

