Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 形而上者谓之道，形而下者谓之器。
夫神道广大，妙本于阴阳；形器精微，义先于律吕。
圣人观四时之变，刻玉纪其盈虚，察五行之声，铸金均其清浊，所以遂八风而宣九德，和大乐而成政道。
然金质从革，侈弇无方；竹体圆虚，修短利制。
是以神瞽作律，用写钟声，乃纪之以三，平之以六，成于十二，天之道也。
又叶时日于晷度，效地气于灰管，故阴阳和则景至，律气应则灰飞。
灰飞律通，吹而命之，则天地之中声也。
故可以范围百度，化成万品，则《虞书》所谓 叶时月正日，同律度量衡 者也。
中声节以成文，德音章而和备，则可以动天地，感鬼神，道性情，移风俗。
叶言志于咏歌，鉴盛衰于治乱，故君子审声以知音，审音以知乐，审乐以知政，盖由兹道。
太史公律书云： 王者制事立物，法度轨则，一禀于六律。
六律为万事之本，其于兵械尤所重焉。
故云望敌知吉凶，闻声效胜负，百王不易之道也。
及秦氏灭学，其道浸微。
汉室初兴，丞相张苍首言律，未能审备。
孝武帝创置协律之官，司马迁言律吕相生之次详矣。
及王莽际，考论音律，刘歆条奏，大率有五：一曰备数，一、十、百、千、万也；二曰和声，宫、商、角、徵、羽也；三曰审度，分、寸、尺、丈、引也；四曰嘉量，龠、合、升、斗、斛也；五曰权衡，铢、两、斤、钧、石也。
班固因而志之。
蔡邕又记建武已后言律吕者，至司马绍统采而续之。
translation: 
"Yi" records: Intangible and abstract things are called Tao, and concrete and real things are called utensils.
The mysterious Tao is all-encompassing, and its wonder is embodied in Yin and Yang; the subtleties of tangible objects are fundamentally embodied in the law.
The sage observed the changes of the four seasons and made a standard watch to record the succession of the seasons; he understood the corresponding musical sounds of the five elements and made a bell to distinguish their high and low. Only in this way can he comply with the characteristics of music to promote the virtues of the nine virtues, so that prosperous, solemn and solemn music can harmoniously assist the state affairs.
However, the texture of copper is like leather, which makes it difficult to determine the size of the bell mouth; bamboo is round and hollow, and its length is easy to cut.
So Shen Gu used bamboo to make music to standardize the pitch of the bell. So the three laws of Huang Zhong, Gu Xi, and Yi Ze were determined first, and then the three laws of Taiku, Ruibin, and Wushe were divided equally into the above three laws and inserted in between. Finally, other six laws such as Da Lu were inserted between the above six laws to form twelve laws. This is the embodiment of the laws of nature.
At the same time, the sundial shadow is also used to adjust the seasonal moon, and the rhythm tube is used to adjust the weather to match the earth's Qi. Therefore, if the yin and yang are harmonious, the sundial shadow will be accurate, and the earth's Qi will be ashes if it corresponds to the rhythm tube.
The rhythm pipe can fly ashes and the sound it makes is the sound of harmony between heaven and earth.
Only then can it standardize various measurement standards and be applied to the measurement of various items, creating the principle stated in "Yu Shu" to make the qi of the four seasons, the lengths and lengths of the sun and the moon uniform, and to make the laws, weights and measures uniform.
The sound of neutrality has laws and regulations that can fully embody beauty and goodness. Virtuous music is both grand and harmonious. They can move heaven, earth, ghosts, and gods, guide emotions, and change customs.
Ye Shi said that the expression of aspirations is pinned on chanting, and the identification of the rise and fall of world affairs is pinned on the governance of state affairs. Therefore, a gentleman can listen to the sound to choose the music, listen to the music to grasp the music, and listen to the music to examine political affairs. It is probably due to this reason.
Tai Shigong's "Lvshu" states: When the king formulates the standard laws of things, he always follows the six laws.
Taking the Six Laws as the foundation of all things is especially important in war.
Therefore, observing the enemy's situation can predict good or bad luck, and listening to the sound of the music can determine the outcome. This is an unchanging rule for emperors throughout the ages.
After Qin Shihuang burned books, these laws gradually declined.
When the Han Dynasty just emerged, Prime Minister Zhang Cang began to examine the music and temperament, but failed to make a complete assessment.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, the official position of coordinating music and music began to be set up, and Sima Qian investigated the order of the relationship between music and music in more detail.
Since Wang Mang came to power, he has also investigated and studied musical rhythm, which Liu Xin presented one by one. There are roughly five items: one is complete mathematics, including one, ten, hundreds, thousands, and ten thousand;
Ban Gu compiled these contents into "Moshu". "Lü Li Zhi".
Cai Yong recorded the scholars who later studied Lu and Lu, and compiled these contents into "Xu Hanshu" by Sima Shaotong.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉末天下大乱，乐工散亡，器法堙灭，魏武始获杜夔，使定乐器声调。
夔依当时尺度，权备典章。
及武帝受命，遵而不革。
至泰始十年，光禄大夫荀勖奏造新度，更铸律吕。
元康中，勖子籓嗣其事，未及成功，属永嘉之乱，中朝典章，咸没于石勒。
及元帝南迁，皇度草昧，礼容乐器，扫地皆尽，虽稍加采掇，而多所沦胥，终于恭、安，竟不能备。
今考古律相生之次，及魏武已后言音律度量者，以声明于篇云。
《传》云： 十二律，黄帝之所作也。
使伶伦自大夏之西，乃之昆仑之阴，取竹之嶰谷生，其窍厚均者，断雨节间长三寸九分而吹之，以为黄钟之宫，曰含少。
次制十二竹筒，写凤之鸣，雄鸣为六，雌鸣亦六，以比黄钟之宫，皆可以生之以定律吕。
则律之始造，以竹为管，取其自然圆虚也。
又云 黄帝作律，以玉为管，长尺，六孔，这二十月音。
至舜时，西王母献昭华之琯，以玉为之。
及汉章帝时，零陵文学奚景于泠道舜祠下得白玉琯。
又武帝太康元年，汲郡盗发六国时魏襄王冢，亦得玉律。
则古者又以玉为管矣。
以玉者，取其体含廉润也。
而汉平帝时，王莽又以铜为之。
铜者，自名也，所以同天下，齐风俗也。
为物至精，不为燥湿寒暑改节，介然有常，似士君子之行，故用焉。
《周礼》太师掌六律、六吕，以合阴阳之声。
六律阳声，黄钟、太蔟、姑洗、蕤宾、夷则、无射也；六吕阴声，大吕、应钟、南吕、林钟、仲吕、夹钟也。
又有太师则执同律以听军声，而诏以吉凶。
其典同掌六律之和，以辩天地四方阴阳之声，以为乐器，皆以十有二律而为之数度，以十有二声而为之齐量焉。
及周景王将铸无射，问律于泠州鸠，对曰： 夫六，中之色，故名之曰黄钟，所以宣养六气九德也。
由是第之。二曰太蔟，所以金奏赞阳出滞也。
translation: 
At the end of Mo, the world was in chaos, the musicians fled and scattered, and all the laws and regulations were destroyed and scattered. During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty, he acquired the musician Du Kui and ordered him to test the musical instrument's tune.
Du Kui balanced and perfected the legal system according to the standards of the time.
After Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty founded the country, this system remained unchanged.
In the tenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Xun Kan, the official of Guanglu, wrote a memorial to rebuild new standards and recast new rhythms and instruments.
During the Yuankang period, Xun Xun's son Yingpeng took over this work. Before it was completed, there was the Yongtai Rebellion, and the rituals, music, and institutional norms of the Central Plains fell into the hands of Shi Le.
By the time Emperor Jin and Yuan moved the capital to Jiankang, the emperor's character and quality had just been established, and there were almost no ceremonial utensils and musical instruments. Although some collections had been made, most of them had been lost, and they were no longer even available during the reigns of Emperors An and Gong.
Nowadays, the order of mutual generation of ancient laws has been researched, and scholars who discussed the measurement of laws after Emperor Wu of Wei have been published.
Records say that the Twelve Laws were produced during the Huangdi era.
Huangdi ordered the music officer Linglun to cut bamboo from the valley in the west of Daxia and north of Kunlun Mountain. He selected a bamboo tube with a uniform thickness and thickness, and cut a section three inches and nine minutes long between the two sections. He named the sound produced by it as the Palace of Huang Zhong and called it Han Shao.
Later, twelve bamboo tubes were made to imitate the cry of the phoenix. During this period, there are six sounds of phoenix and six sounds of phoenix. They are all produced from the rhythm tube of the Yellow Bell Palace, forming the twelve rhythms.
It can be seen that bamboo tubes were used in the beginning of rhythm-making, because the size of its cavity was naturally formed.
There are also records saying that the Yellow Emperor used jade to make rhythm tubes, one foot long and six holes, and he used one tube for each month in December.
During the reign of Shun, the king of the West once presented Zhaohua's lüguan, which was made of jade.
During the reign of Emperor Mozhang, Xi Jing of Lingling Literature unearthed a white jade rhythm tube under the Shun Temple in Lingdao.
In the first year of Emperor Wu's reign, he robbed the tomb of King Xiang of Wei in the Zhou Dynasty and obtained the jade rules.
It can be seen that there were examples of jade being used as legal instruments in ancient times.
The advantage of using jade as a tube is that the tube body is clear and moist.
During the reign of Emperor Moping, Wang Ling used copper to make musical instruments.
Copper symbolizes the unity of the world and the same customs.
Copper has excellent texture and is not deformed by dryness, moisture, cold, or heat. Its performance is stable for a long time, just like the character of a gentleman, so it is used.
"Zhou Rites" records that the Taishi is in charge of the six laws and six lu, which are used to coordinate the sounds of yin and yang.
The six rhythms are Yang sounds, which refer to Huangzhong, Taigu, Guxi, Ruibin, Yize, and Wushe; the six Lu are Yin sounds, which refer to Dalu, Yingzhong, Nanlu, Linzhong, Zhonglv, and Jiazhong.
"The Rites of Zhou" also contains the saying that the imperial master used twelve laws and regulations to predict military affairs and tell good or bad luck.
At the same time, Dian Tong was in charge of the sum of six rhythms and six lu, which was used to analyze the sounds of yin and yang in the four directions of the world and make musical instruments. They all used the twelve rhythms as the length standard and the twelve tones as the test standard.
King Zhou Jing wanted to make a Wushe bell, so he asked Jie Zhi about the rhythm. Shi Xi replied: Among the six heavens and earth, its color corresponds to the five elements of earth, and its color is yellow, so it is called a yellow bell.
From the yellow bell downwards, there is the second rhythm of Tai Cun, which means the use of golden music to assist the growth of Yang Qi and get out of the stagnant season.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
三曰姑洗，所以羞洁百物，考神纳宾也。
四曰蕤宾，所以安静神人，献酬交酢也。
五曰夷则，所以咏歌九德，平人无贰也。
六曰无射，所以宣布哲人之令德，示人轨仪也。
为之六间，以扬沈伏而黜散越也。
元间大吕，助宣物也，二间夹钟，出四隙之细也。
三间中吕，宣中气也。
四间林钟，和展百事，俾莫不任肃纯恪也。
五间南吕，赞阳秀也。
六间应钟，均利器用，俾应复也。
此皆所以律述时气效节物也。
及秦始皇焚书荡覆，典策缺亡，诸子琐言时有遗记。
吕不韦《春秋》言：黄钟之宫，律之本也，下生林钟，林钟上生太蔟，太蔟下生南吕，南吕上生姑洗，姑洗下生应钟，应钟上生蕤宾，蕤宾下生大吕，大吕下生夷则，夷则上生夹钟，夹钟下生无射，无射上生中吕。
三分所生，益其一分以上生；三分所生，去其一分以下生。
后代之言音律者多宗此说。
及汉兴，承秦之弊，张苍首治律历，颇未能详。
故孝武帝正乐，乃置协律之官，虽律吕清浊之体粗正，金石高下之音有准，然徒捃采遗存，以成一时之制，而数犹用五。
时淮南王安延致儒博，亦为律吕。
云黄钟之律九寸而宫音调，因而九之，九九八十一，故黄钟之数立焉，位在子。
林钟位在未，其数五十四。
translation: 
The third law is called Guxi, which means that clean objects can be used to worship gods and entertain guests.
The fourth law is called Ruibin, and its metaphorical meaning can be used in the ancestral temple to make the gods and men quiet and enjoy themselves, and toast each other like a guest and a host.
The fifth rhyme is called Yi Ze, and its meaning can sing the virtues of the Nine Gongs. Fulfill the aspirations of the people so that they have no doubts.
The sixth law is called Wushe, and its allegorical meaning can declare the virtues of philosophers and clarify the standards of life.
There are also six rooms for promoting stagnant energy and discarding exciting emotions.
The first room is called Da Lu, and its meaning can assist the Yang Law and Huang Zhong in standardizing all things. The second room is called Jia Zhong, which means to harmonize the subtleties of the four seasons.
The third room is called Zhonglu, which symbolizes justice and nourishes the spirit of neutrality.
The fourth room is called Lin Zhong, which means that everything in the world is peaceful and smooth, and everything is without pretense. People should do their own thing, achieve quick success, and respect their duties.
The fifth room is called Nanlu, which means assisting in the formation of all things.
The sixth room is called Yingzhong, which means that all the utensils are ready, which is beneficial to the major events of the world, and all the organs and utensils can be restored to the normal state corresponding to their rituals.
These are all statements that use laws to verify the qi of the four seasons and correspond to things in the world.
The First Emperor of Qin destroyed culture by burning books, and all the classics were scattered and lost. The articles of various scholars describing trivial anecdotes occasionally survived.
Lu Buwei's "Spring and Autumn Annals" stated: Huangzhong Palace is the foundation of the law. Lin Zhong was born under Huang Zhong, Tai Cun was born above Lin Zhong, Nan Lu was born under Tai Cong, Gu Xi was born above Nan Lu, Ying Zhong was born under Gu Xi, Ruibin was born above Ying Zhong, Da Lu was born under Ruibin, Yi Ze was born under Da Lu, Jia Zhong was born above Yi Ze, Wu She was born under Jia Zhong, and Zhong Lu was born above Wu She.
The length of the law generated by the three thirds increases by one point and produces the law of ascending; decreases by one point and produces the law of descending.
Later generations generally followed this rule when studying music.
After the Han Dynasty prospered and the Qin Dynasty's book-burning practices were stopped, Zhang Cang began to study the legal calendar, but it was not complete yet.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaowu took the music examination in the school and set up the official position of Xielu, which allowed the pitch of lulu to be initially standardized and the pitch of musical instruments to be accurately grasped. However, this was just a collection of past results. As a temporary system, the number of notes was still five.
At that time, King Liu An of Huainan invited scholars to study Lu Lu.
It is said that the rhythm of Huang Zhong is nine inches, and the palace sound is determined. Therefore, when multiplied by nine, nine, nine and eighty-one, the number of Huang Zhong's rhythm is determined, and its position is Zi.
The position of Lin Zhong is in Wei, and the law number is fifty-four.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
太蔟其数七十二，南吕之数四十八，姑洗之数六十四，应钟之数四十二，蕤宾之数五十七，大吕之数七十六，夷则之数五十一，夹钟之数六十八，无射之数四十五，中吕之数六十，极不生。
以黄钟为宫，太蔟为商，姑洗为角，林钟为徽，南吕为羽。
宫生徵，徵生商，商生羽，羽生角，角生应钟，不比正音，故为和；应钟生蕤宾，不比正音，故为缪。
日冬至，音比林钟浸以浊。
日夏至，音比黄钟浸以清。
十二律应二十四时之变。
甲子，中吕之徵也。
丙子，夹钟之羽也。
戊子，黄钟之宫也。
庚子，无射之商也。
壬子，夷则之角也。
其为音也，一律而生五音，十二律而为六十音。
因而六之，六六三十六，故三百六十音以当一岁之日。
故律历之数，天地之道也。
司马迁八书言律吕，粗举大经，著于前史。
则以太极元气函三为一，而始动于子，十二律之生，必所起焉。
于是参一于丑得三，因而九三之，举本位合十辰，得一万九千六百八十三，谓之成数，以为黄钟之法。
又参之律于十二辰，得十七万七千一百四十七，谓之该数，以为黄钟之实。
实如法而一，得黄钟之律长九寸，十一月冬至之气应焉。
盖阴阳合德，气钟于子，而化生万物，则物之生莫不函三。
故十二律空径三分，而上下相生，皆损益以三。
其术则因黄钟之长九寸，以下生者倍其实，三其法：以上生者，四其实，三其法。
所以明阳下生阴，阴上生阳。起子，为黄钟九寸，一。
丑，三分之二。
寅，九分之八。
卯，二十七分之十六。
辰，八十一分之六十四。
巳，二百四十三分之一百二十八。
translation: 
The number of Taiku is seventy-two, the number of Nanlu is forty-eight, the number of Guxi is sixty-four, the number of Yingzhong is forty-two, the number of Ruibin is fifty-seven, the number of Dalu is seventy-six, the number of Yize is fifty-one, the number of Zhong is sixty-eight, the number of Wushe is forty-five, the number of Zhonglu is sixty, and Zhonglu is the end of the twelve laws, no longer rising from above or from below.
Among them, Huang Zhong is the palace, Tai Ku is the merchant, Gu Xi is the horn, Lin Zhong is the Zheng, and Nan Lu is the Yu.
They are composed of the Gong sound producing the Zheng sound, the Zheng sound producing the Shang sound, the Shang sound producing the Yu sound, the Yu sound producing the Jiao sound, and the Jiao sound producing Ying Zhong, which cannot be compared with the five Zheng tones of Gong, Shang, Jiao, Zheng and Yu, so it is called He; Ying Zhong produces Ruibin, which cannot be compared with the Zheng sound, so it is called Miao.
At the winter solstice, the rhythm corresponds to the forest bell, and the tone gradually becomes deeper.
At the summer solstice, the rhythm corresponds to the yellow bell, and the tone gradually becomes higher.
It can be seen that the twelve laws correspond to the twenty-four seasonal changes.
Jiazi said it corresponded to Zhonglu's campaign.
Bingzi said that it corresponds to the feather of the bell.
Wuzi day corresponds to the palace of Huangzhong.
Gengzi day corresponds to the quotient of Wushe.
The day of Renzi corresponds to the corner of Yize.
As five tones, they are all produced by the same law, so the twelve laws can produce sixty tones.
Then multiply by six, six six thirty-six, so three hundred and sixty tones can correspond to the number of days in a year.
Therefore, the number of laws and calendars embodies the principles of heaven and earth.
Sima Qian's "Eight Books" mentioned Lu Lu, which was roughly discussed in a conventional way and recorded in the historical books of previous dynasties.
It mainly says that the most primitive chaotic energy contains the three qi of heaven, earth and human beings as one, and it is activated in Zi, and the mutual generation of the twelve laws must originate from here.
So we multiplied three and one to get three in Chou, and then multiplied by nine three, together with the base, a total of ten cents, we got nineteen thousand six hundred and eighty-three, which is called the number of ratio and is used as the divisor to calculate the length of Huang Zhong's rhythm.
Then multiply the three phases by twelve chen, and we get 177,000 and 147, which is called the inclusive number and is used as the dividend in Huang Zhong's calculation.
The dividend and the divisor are similar, and the yellow bell pattern is nine inches long, and the climate is fulfilled by the winter solstice in November.
This is when Yin Qi and Yang Qi are unified and gather in the Zi, only then can all things be conceived and produced, and the production of all things contains the number three.
Therefore, the diameter of the Twelve Laws is three parts, and their upper and lower births use three as the ratio of gain and loss.
The calculation method is based on the nine-inch length of the Huang Zhong rule. For the lower rule, multiply two by nine and divide it by three. For the upper rule, multiply the lower rule by four and divide it by three.
The so-called yang law produces yin law under it, and the yin law produces yang law above it. This is how it is calculated. Starting from Zi, it is Huang Zhong Jiu Cun, one.
Ugly, two-thirds.
Yin, eight-ninths.
Mao, sixteen/twenty-seven.
Chen, 64/81.
Si, two hundred and forty-three hundred and twenty-eight.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
午，七百二十九分之五百一十二。
未，二千一百八十七分之一千二十四。
申，六千五百六十一分之四千九十六。
酉，一万九千六百八十二分之八千一百九十二。
戌，五万九千四十九分之三万二千七百六十八。
亥，十七万七千一百四十七分之六万五千五百三十六。
如是周十二辰，在六律为阳，则当位自得而下生阴，在六吕为阴，则得其所衡而上生于阳，推算之术无重上生之法也。
所谓律取妻，吕生子，阴阳升降，律吕之大经也。
而迁又言十二律之长，今依淮南九九之数，则蕤宾为重上。
又言五音相生，而以宫生角，角生商，商生徵，徵生羽，羽生宫。
求其理用，罔见通途。
及元始中，王莽辅政，博征通知钟律者，考其音义，使羲和刘歆典领调奏。
班固《汉书》采而志之，其序论虽博，而言十二律损益次第，自黄钟长九寸，三分损一，下生林钟，长六寸。
三分益一，上生太蔟而左旋，八八为位。一上一下，终于无射，下生中吕。
校其相生所得，与司马迁正同。班固采以为志。
元帝时，郎中京房知五音六十律之数，上使太子傅玄成、谏议大夫章杂试问房于乐府，房对： 受学于故小黄令焦延寿。
六十律相生之法：以上生下，皆三生二；以下生上，皆三生四。
阳下生阴，阴上生阳，终于中吕，而十二律毕矣。
中吕上生执始，执始下生去灭。
上下相生，终于南事，而六十律毕矣。
夫十二律之变至于六十，犹八卦之变至于六十四也。
宓牺作《易》，纪阳气之初以为律法。
建日冬至之声，以黄钟为宫，太蔟为商，姑洗为角，林钟为徽，南吕为羽，应钟为变宫，蕤宾为变徵，此声气之元，五音之正也。
故各统一日，其余以次运行，当日者各自为宫，而商角徽羽以类从焉。
translation: 
Noon, 512/729.
Wei, 1024/2187.
Shen, 4096/6561.
Unit 8192/19682.
Xu, 32,768/59,049.
Hai, 65536/177147.
In this way, the law corresponds to the twelve celestial beings, among which the six laws are Yang laws, and the number derived from the first law is generated downward to produce the Yin law, while the six Lu are Yin laws, and the numbers derived from the Yin law are generated upward to produce the Yang law. There is no continuous law in the calculation process.
The creation is the so-called law of marrying a wife and giving birth to a son. The rising and falling of yin and yang formed by the law is also the routine of the operation of the law.
But Sima Qian also said that if the length of the twelve laws is calculated according to the number of laws in "Huainanzi", then Ruibin is a repeated ascendant.
It is also said that the five tones are related to each other by using the palace to generate horns, the horns to generate Shang, the Shang to generate Zheng, the Zheng to generate Yu, and the Yu to generate Gong.
If we look for the principle of their mutual development, it will not make sense at all.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang assisted in state affairs and recruited scholars who were familiar with bell rhythms to examine the music and rhythm issues, and asked Xi and Liu Xin to sort out the memorials piece by piece.
Ban Gu's "Book of Han" was collected and compiled into the annals. Although the contents discussed in sequence are extensive, when it comes to the order of the gain and loss of the twelve laws, it is based on the nine-inch long yellow bell, which loses one by three, and the forest bell, which is six inches long.
In addition, the three points of Lin Zhongchang are beneficial to one, and the left-hand upwards give birth to Taiyun, so that every eight rhythms produce uniformity, the upper ones give birth to the lower parts, and end up in Wushe, and the lower parts give birth to Zhonglu.
The results of the examination were the same as those of Sima Qian, so Ban Gu was included in his annals.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, the doctor Jingfang was proficient in the mathematics of five tones and sixty temperaments. The emperor ordered the crown prince Taifu Xuancheng and the admonishment official Zhang to question Jingfang in Yuefu. Jingfang replied: I learned from the late Xiao Huangling Jiao Yanshou.
The method of mutual generation of sixty laws is: using the upper law to produce the lower law, the ratio is two-thirds; using the lower law to produce the upper law, the ratio is three-fourths.
The Yang law gives rise to the Yin law, and the Yin law gives rise to the Yang law. Until Zhonglu, the twelve laws are mutually generated.
Zhonglu Shangsheng is responsible for the law of beginning, and he is responsible for the law of reduction for his descendants.
Up and down mutually generate each other, until the law of Nanshi, the sixty laws have completed the mutual generation.
The twelve laws change into the sixty laws, just like the eight trigrams change into the sixty-four hexagrams.
Mi Xi wrote "Yi", which comprehensively analyzed the situation of the budding Yang Qi as the standard for high rhythm.
To establish the musical scale used on the day of the winter solstice, that is, Huang Zhong is the palace, Taixun is the Shang, Guxi is the horn, Lin Zhong is the Zheng, Nanlu is the Yu, Yingzhong is the Biangong, and Ruibin is the Bianzheng. This is the foundation of the tone and the correct position of the five tones.
Therefore, they can be controlled separately, and the rest can be arranged in order. The rules that control the day are each palace sounds, and Shang Jiao Zheng Yu is arranged in order according to his palace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
《礼运》曰 五声、六律、十二管还相为宫 ，此之谓也。
以六十律分期之日，黄钟自冬至始，及冬至而复，阴阳、寒燠、风雨之占生焉。
于以检摄群音，考其高下，苟非革木之声，则无不有所合。《虞书》曰 律和声，此之谓也。
京房又曰： 竹声不可以度调，故作准以定数。
准之状如瑟，而长丈，十三弦，隐间九尺，以应黄钟之律九寸。
中央一弦，下有画分寸，以为六十律清浊之节。
房言律详于歆所奏，其术施行于史官，候部用之，文多不悉载。
截管为律，吹以考声，列以效气，道之本也。
术家以其声微而体难知，其分数不明，故作准以代之。
准之声明暢易达，分寸又粗，然弦以缓急清浊，非管无以正也。
均其中弦，令与黄钟相得，案画以求诸律，则无不如数而应者矣。
《续汉志》具载其六十律准度数，其相生之次与《吕览》、《淮南》同。
汉章帝元和元年，待诏候钟律殷肜上言： 官无晓六十律以准调音者。
故待诏严崇具以准法教子男宣，原召宣补学官，主调乐器。
诏曰： 崇子学审晓律，别其族，协其声者，审试。
不得依托父学，以聋为聪。
声微妙，独非莫知，独是莫晓。
以律错吹，能知命十二律不失一，乃为能传崇学耳。
试宣十二律，其二中，其四不中，其六不知何律，宣遂罢。
自此律家莫能为准。
灵帝熹平六年，东观召典律者太子舍人张光等问准意，光等不知，归阅旧藏，乃得其器。
形制如房书，犹不能定其弦缓急。
translation: 
"Liyun" records that five tones, six rhythms, and twelve pipes form a palace, and this is the reason.
According to the corresponding period of the sixty laws, the Huang Zhong began to be used for fulfillment on the winter solstice and returned on the next winter solstice. During this period, the predictions of yin and yang, cold and heat, wind and rain were produced.
Therefore, all kinds of music are standardized and their quality is tested. If it is not played on leather or wooden instruments, there is nothing inappropriate. This is what "Yu Shu" says about "Lune and Harmony".
Jingfang added: It is difficult to adjust the pitch of the bamboo pipe accurately, so a precision instrument is used to determine the temperament data.
The accurate shape is like a zither, one foot long, with thirteen strings. The effective string length is nine feet, which corresponds to the nine inches of Huang Zhonglu.
Under the central string, there is a mark of proportion, which is the mark of the sixty-tone high and low notes.
Jingfang's discussion of the law is more detailed than Liu Xin's memorial. Its method of interdependence was implemented by officials in charge of the celestial calendar and used by the department responsible for divination of good and bad luck. There are too many contents to record them all.
The law of cutting bamboo pipes, playing the music on the flute to test the school music, and arranging the flutes to match the weather are the foundation of Tao.
The people in charge of the rhythm and calendar in ancient times knew that the tiny pitch changes of the rhythm tube, its length was difficult to determine, and its size was unclear, so they made accurate instruments to replace them.
The pitch of the pitch instrument is clear, smooth and easy to understand, and its proportion is obvious. However, the pitch deviation caused by the tightness of the string tension is difficult to standardize without a temperament to calibrate.
Adjust the central string so that it has the same pitch as the yellow bell tempered pipe, and then find the string lengths of each tempered string according to the description, and the pitches will be exactly the same.
"Xu Han Zhi" all records the degrees of the sixty rules on the accurate instrument, and the order of their mutual generation is the same as "Lü Lan" and "Huainan".
In the first year of Yuanhe, Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty, Yin Xi, who was waiting for the imperial edict to wait for Zhonglu, reported: No one in the court knows how to use accurate instruments to adjust the sixty rhythms.
After Shao Yanchong taught his son Yan Xuan how to tune instruments accurately, he hoped to recruit Yan Xuanbu as an academic officer to be responsible for tuning instruments.
The emperor's edict said: If Yan Chong's son really knows the temperament, distinguishes their categories, and harmonizes their pitch, he should be tested.
You can't rely on your father's knowledge and think that you are smart because you don't know the pitch.
The melody is subtle, but is there no one who understands it and masters it?
The sequence of the twelve rhythms is staggered and played, and only those who can accurately judge each rhythm and ensure that they are consistent can receive Yan Chong's degree.
When he tested Yan Xuan's twelve laws, he found that two of them were accurate, but four were not accurate, and six laws could not be identified. Therefore, Yan Xuan could not be appointed as a scholar.
From then on, lawyers could no longer adjust the instrument.
In the sixth year of Xiping, Emperor Ling summoned Zhang Guang, the prince's minister in charge of music, and others in Dongguan, and asked about the meaning of the accurate instrument. Zhang Guang and others did not know what it meant, so they went back to check the treasure and found it.
Its shape is just like what Jingfang said, but the pitch of the string sound cannot be determined.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
音，不可书以晓人，知之者欲教而无从，心达者体知而无师，故史官能辨清浊者遂绝。
其可以相传者，唯候气而已。
汉末纷乱，亡失雅乐。
魏武时，河南杜夔精识音韵，为雅乐郎中，令铸铜工柴玉铸钟，其声均清浊多不如法，数毁改作，玉甚厌之，谓夔清浊任意，更相诉白于魏武王。
魏武王取玉所铸钟杂错更试，然后知夔为精，于是罪玉。
泰始十年，中书监荀勖、中书令张华出御府铜竹律二十五具，部太乐郎刘秀等校试，其三具与杜夔及左延年律法同，其二十二具，视其铭题尺寸，是笛律也。
问协律中郎将列和，辞： 昔魏明帝时，令和承受笛声以作此律，欲使学者别居一坊，歌咏讲习，依此律调。
至于都合乐时，但识其尺寸之名，则丝竹歌咏，皆得均合。
歌声浊者用长笛长律，歌声清者用短笛短律。
凡弦歌调张清浊之制，不依笛尺寸名之，则不可知也。
勖等奏： 昔先王之作乐也，以振风荡俗，飨神祐贤，必协律吕之和，以节八音之中。
是故郊祀朝宴，用之有制，歌奏分献，清浊有宜。
故曰 五声、十二律还相为宫 ，此经传记籍可得知者也。
如和对辞，笛之长短无所象则，率意而作，不由曲度。考以正律，皆不相应；吹其声均，多不谐合。
又辞 先师传笛，别其清浊，直以长短。工人裁制，旧不依律。 是为作笛无法。
而和写笛造律，又令琴瑟歌咏，从之为正，非所以稽古先哲，垂宪于后者也。
谨条牒诸律，问和意状如左。
translation: 
Therefore, the problem of music cannot be summarized and understood. People who understand some music principles have no basis for teaching it. People who understand it can understand it but have no tools to express it. There are no people in the palace who can distinguish the pitch of music.
The only content that can be passed down from generation to generation is the climate.
At the end of the Han Dynasty, there were many wars, and Yale San was lost.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty, Du Kui of Henan Province was proficient in music. He was appointed as a doctor of Yale and ordered the bronze caster Chai Yu to cast a bell. The pitch of the bell was often out of standard and he was destroyed and recast several times. Chai Yu was very tired of it and said that Du Kui arbitrarily determined the pitch of the pitch and complained to King Wu of Wei one after another.
King Wu of Wei took the bell made by Chai Yu and checked it crosswise. Only then did he know that Du Kui's opinion was accurate, so he punished Chai Yu.
In the tenth year of Taishi's reign, Zhongshu supervisor Gou Xu and Zhongshu ordered Zhang Hua to produce twenty-five copper and bamboo flutes in the palace collection, and ordered Tai Lelang Liu Xiu and others to check them. Three of them were consistent with the laws of Du Kui and Zuo Yannian, and the other twenty-two, judging from the size of the inscriptions, were flute flutes.
When I asked Liehe, the general in charge of Xielu, he told me: In the past, during the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, Ranghe inherited the pitch of the flute and made this set of rhythmic pipes so that music students could practice singing and standardize the tone according to this rhythm when they lived in another place.
As for the whole group playing together, as long as the names and dimensions of the music are known, the instrumental music and singing can all be in tune.
When the singing is low, use the long flute, and when the singing is high, use the short flute.
Generally speaking, if the standard for tuning the strings of a string song is not based on the flute size, you don’t know how to tune it correctly.
Xun Xu and others reported: In the past, when the kings made music, in order to change customs, sacrifice to gods, and protect the wise, they must harmonize the laws and regulations and use them to standardize various musical instruments.
Therefore, the music used in suburban ceremonies and banquets all have a certain music system. Singing and playing music have their own order, and the pitch of the music is also appropriate.
It is recorded in the scriptures that the five tones and twelve rhythms and melody phases are palaces, which can be understood here.
As Lihe He told me, there is no legal standard for the length of the flute. It is made haphazardly and not according to the requirements of the tune. Even if it is checked with a standard tempered pipe, it cannot be consistent; the tunes played are often discordant.
It is also said that the flute passed down from the teacher in the past was directly divided into different scales by length. When the workers made it, they did not follow the rules. This shows that the flute making was not standardized.
However, Lihe imitated the music of the flute to compose the rhythm, and then asked the people who played musical instruments and singers to follow it as regular rules. This was not a method of studying the knowledge of ancient sages and showing the rules to future generations.
I would like to record the various laws and regulations, as well as the contents of the inquiries and lists as follows.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及依典制，用十二律造笛象十二枚，声均调和，器用便利。讲肄弹击，必合律吕，况乎宴飨万国，奏之庙堂者哉？
虽伶夔旷远，至音难精，犹宜仪形古昔，以求厥衷，合乎经礼，于制为详。
若可施用，请更部笛工选竹造作，下太乐乐府施行。
平议诸杜夔、左延年律可皆留，其御府笛正声、下徽各一具，皆铭题作者姓名，其余无所施用，还付御府毁。
奏可。
勖又问和： 作笛为可依十二律作十二笛，令一孔依一律，然后乃以为乐不？
和辞： 太乐东厢长笛正声已长四尺二寸，今当复取其下徵之声。于法，声浊者笛当长，计其尺寸乃五尺有余，和昔日作之，不可吹也。
又，笛诸孔虽不校试，意谓不能得一孔辄应一律也。
案太乐四尺二寸笛正声均应蕤宾，以十二律还相为宫，推法下徵之孔当应律大吕。
大吕笛长二尺六寸有奇，不得长五尺余。
辄令太乐郎刘秀、邓昊等依律作大吕笛以示和，又吹七律，一孔一校，声皆相应。
然后令郝生鼓筝，宋同吹笛，以为杂引、《相和》诸曲。
和乃辞曰： 自和父祖汉世以来，笛家相传，不知此法，而令调均与律相应，实非所及也。
郝生、鲁基、种整、硃夏皆与和同。
又问和： 笛有六孔，及其体中之空为七，和为能尽名其宫商角徵不？
孔调与不调，以何检知？
和辞： 先师相传，吹笛但以作曲，相语为某曲当举某指，初不知七孔尽应何声也。
若当作笛，其仰尚方笛工依案旧像讫，但吹取鸣者，初不复校其诸孔调与不调也。
translation: 
According to the rules and regulations. Using twelve rhythms to make twelve flutes that comply with the law, the sound is harmonious and easy to use. It can be used for lectures, exercises, playing and performances, and it can all comply with the laws and regulations, not to mention the music used for banquets for all nations and for sacrifices in temples?
Although Ling Lun and Zhu Kui have been away from us for a long time, and it is difficult to master the most beautiful music, we should still imitate the ancient system in order to be correct and in line with the classics and etiquette, so the theory of flute system is quite detailed.
If it can be used, please let the flute player choose bamboo to make it and order Taiyue Yuefu to implement it.
The reviewed Du Kui and Zuo Gen locust rhythms can be kept. One Zhengsheng flute and one Xiazheng flute each are kept in the imperial treasury, both of which are engraved with the author's name. The rest that are not in use should be returned to the emperor's treasury for destruction.
The emperor is ready to play.
Gou Xu asked Liehe again: The method of making flutes can be to make twelve flutes according to the twelve laws, let each hole of the flute be tuned according to the same tune, and then use it for playing, is it possible?
Liehe replied: The flute in Taiyue Shuxiang's main tone is already four feet and two inches long. Now let's take the lower tone. According to the rules, the flute with the lower tone should be longer. Calculating its size, it can be more than five feet long. The wings were made in the past and can no longer be played.
In addition, since there is no proofreading test for each hole of the flute, I don’t think it is possible to make every hole correspond exactly.
Taiyue's four-foot-two-inch positive flute corresponds to the Ruibin rhythm. According to the method of deducing the twelve pipes to form a palace, the lower hole should correspond to the Dalu rhythm.
The length of the Dalu flute is two feet and six inches, and the length of the flute should not be more than five feet.
So he asked Tai Lelang Liu Xiu, Deng Hao and others to make a big Lu flute according to the rules and show it to Fudi. They also played the seven rhythms and checked the corresponding holes of the flute. The sounds all matched.
Then Hao Sheng was asked to play the zither and Song Tong to play the flute and other music such as Zayin and "Xianghe".
Lie He replied: He's ancestors have been making flutes since the Jin Dynasty. I don't know how to do this, especially how to make the pronunciation of the flute holes correspond to the rhythm. It is really beyond my ability.
Chaosheng, Listem, Wall Zheng, and Sexia all have the same feeling as shaping.
He also asked Wudi: The flute has six holes, and the tube sound makes it seven. Wudi, can you tell the names of the sounds they produce, such as Gong, Shang, Jiao, Zheng, etc.?
Is the Kongtone adjustment accurate? How to check?
Lie He replied: According to my ancestors, the flute is only used to play tunes. For example, if you are told to raise a certain finger to a certain note of a certain tune, you initially did not know what rhythm each of the seven holes corresponds to.
When it comes to making flutes, they rely on the flute workers in the government offices to make them according to the old drawings. The person who plays them does not have to recalibrate the pitch of each hole to see if it is accurate.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
案《周礼》调乐金石，有一定之声，是故造钟磬者先依律调之，然后施于厢悬。
作乐之时，诸音皆受钟磬之均，即为悉应律也。
至于飨宴殿堂之上，无厢悬钟磬，以笛有一定调，故诸弦歌皆从笛为正，是为笛犹钟磬，宜必合于律吕。
如和所对，直以意造，率短一寸，七孔声均，不知其皆应何律，调与不调，无以检正，唯取竹之鸣者，为无法制。
辄部郎刘秀、邓昊、王艳、魏邵等与笛工参共作笛，工人造其形，律者定其声，然后器象有制，音均和协。
又问和： 若不知律吕之义作乐，音均高下清浊之调，当以何名之？
和辞： 每合乐时，随歌者声之清浊，用笛有长短。
假令声浊者用三尺二笛，因名曰此三尺二调也；声清者用二尺九笛，因名曰此二尺九调也。
汉魏相传，施行皆然。
案《周礼》奏六乐，乃奏黄钟，歌大吕；乃奏太蔟，歌应钟，皆以律吕之义，纪歌奏清浊。
而和所称以二尺，三尺为名，虽汉魏用之，俗而不典。
部郎刘秀、邓昊等以律作笛，三尺二寸者应无射之律，若宜用长笛，执乐者曰请奏无射；二尺八寸四分四厘应黄钟之律，若宜用短笛，执乐者曰请奏黄钟。
则歌奏之义，若合经礼，考之古典，于制为雅。
《书》曰： 予欲闻六律、五声、八音，在治忽。
《周礼》、《国语》载六律六同，《礼记》又曰 五声、十二律还相为宫 。
刘歆、班固撰《律历志》亦纪十二律，惟京房始创六十律。
至章帝时，其法己绝，蔡邕追纪其言，亦曰今无能为者。
依案古典及今音家所用，六十律者无施于乐。
谨依典记，以五声、十二律还相为宫之法，制十二笛象，记注图侧，如别，省图，不如视笛之孔，故复重作蕤宾伏孔笛。
translation: 
"Zhou Li" records that bell and chime orchestras must comply with certain musical standards, so the people who made the bells and chimes first harmonized them according to the rhythm before they could be used in the four-chamber music suspension.
During the performance, if other instruments can harmonize with the pitch of the chime, then it is considered to be in tune.
As for the banquet in the palace, there are no bells and chimes hanging in four chambers. Since the flute has a fixed pitch, string songs and other string songs use the flute sound as the pitch criterion. Therefore, if the flute is like a bell and chime, it must of course be consistent with the rules and regulations.
Just like what Liehe said, it can be made simply by imagination. The position of each hole is reduced by one inch. The intervals between two adjacent holes among the seven holes are equal. It is not known which rhythm they correspond to. There is no way to test whether the pitch is accurate. Just from the sound produced by the flute, they are irregular.
Tai Lelang Liu Xiu, Deng Hao, Wang Yan, Wei Shao and others were asked to study and make the flute together with the flute workers. The workers were responsible for the shape of the flute, and the rhythmists adjusted their temperament. As a result, the shape of the instruments was standardized and the sounds were harmonious.
He also asked Liehe: If you perform music without knowing the principles of rhythm and Lu, what should you call the pitch of the music and the ups and downs of the melody?
Liehe replied: Whenever there is an ensemble, flutes of different lengths should be chosen according to the pitch of the singer's voice.
If a person with a low-pitched voice uses a three-foot-two flute, it is called a three-foot-two tune; if a person with a high-pitched voice uses a two-foot-nine flute, it is called a two-foot-nine tune.
This has been done from generation to generation since Mowei.
The six kinds of music recorded in "Zhou Rites" are to play Huang Zhong and sing to Da Lu; to play Tai Cun and sing to Ying Zhong. They all use the name of Lu to express the level of singing and playing.
Lihe used the names of two feet and three feet. Although they have been used since the Han and Wei dynasties, they are vulgar and not elegant.
Taiyue Lang Liu Xiu, Deng Hao and others were ordered to make flutes according to the rhythm. The three-foot-two-inch flute corresponds to the Wushe rhythm. If it is suitable to use the flute to perform, the person who plays the music will say please play Wushe;
In this way, both singing and playing comply with the requirements of the classics and etiquette, and the music system becomes more elegant after studying ancient canons.
"Shangshu" records: I hope to hear the music of six rhythms and five tones played on eight-note instruments to examine and control chaos.
"Zhou Lang" and "Guoyu" record six rhythms and six tones, and "Book of Rites" also says: Five tones and twelve rhythms form a palace.
The "Lü Li Zhi" written by Liu Xin and Ban Gu also recorded twelve laws, and only Jingfang created the sixty laws.
By the time of Emperor Zhang, his law of life had been extinct. Although Cai Yong had memorized some of its contents, he believed that no one could master it today.
Examining the practice of ancient and contemporary musicians, the Sixty Rules are not used in musical performances.
According to the records in the classics, the image of the twelve flutes was made using the method of forming a palace with five tones and twelve melodies, and annotations were added on the sides of the pictures. In addition, it is not as good as inspecting the sound holes of the flutes to examine the images, so the Ruibin Fukong flute was redone.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其制云：
黄钟之笛，正声应黄钟，下徵应林钟，长二尺八寸四分四厘有奇。
其宫声正而不倍，故曰正声。
正声调法：黄钟为宫，第一孔也。应钟为变宫，第二孔也。
南吕为羽，第三孔也。
林钟为徵，第四孔也。
蕤宾为变徵，第五附孔也。
姑洗为角，笛体中声。
太蔟为商。
笛后出孔也。
商声浊于角，当在角下，而角声以在体中，故上其商孔，令在宫上，清于宫也。
然则宫商正也，余声皆倍也；是故从宫以下，孔转下转浊也。
此章记笛孔上下次第之名也。
下章说律吕相生，笛之制也。
正声调法，黄钟为宫。
作黄钟之笛，将求宫孔，以始洗及黄钟律，从笛首下度之，尽二律之长而为孔，则得宫声也。
宫生徵，黄钟生林钟也。
以林钟之律从宫孔下度之。尽律作孔，则得徵声也。
徵生商，林钟生太蔟也。
以太蔟律从徵孔上度之，尽律以为孔，则得商声也。
商生羽，太蔟生南吕也。
以南吕律从商孔下度之，尽律为孔，则得羽声也。
羽生角，南吕生姑洗也。
以姑洗律从羽孔上行度之，尽律而为孔，则得角声也。
然则出于商孔之上，吹笛者左手所不及也。
从羽孔下行度之，尽律而为孔，亦得角声，出于商附孔之下，则吹者右手所不逮也，故不作角孔。
推而下之，复倍其均，是以角声在笛体中，古之制也。
音家旧法，虽一倍再倍，但令均同，适足为唱和之声，无害于曲均故也。
translation: 
Its shape is:
Huang Zhong's flute, the upright tone corresponds to the Huang Zhong rhythm, and the lower tone corresponds to the Lin Zhong rhythm. It is two feet eight inches long and four minutes and four centimeters long.
In the positive tone fingering method, Huang Zhong is the palace and Gu Xi is the horn. The full closed sound of the flute is pronounced as Gu Xi, so four times the length of the horn sound is the length of the Huang Zhong flute.
The palace sound it produces is the positive tone in the middle range and does not belong to the double tone of the bass range, so it is called the positive tone. Fingering method for positive tone: Huang Zhong is the palace. The bell is the palace of change, the second hole.
Nanlu is a feather, the third hole.
Lin Zhongwei Zheng, the fourth hole.
Ruibin is a change sign, with the fifth hole attached.
Guxi is the horn that closes the sound produced by all the sound holes on the flute.
Taiyuan is a businessman.
The hole behind the flute.
The Shang sound is lower than the horn sound, when it is below the horn sound, and the horn sound is already in the tube sound with the sound hole fully closed, so the Shang sound can only be determined at the upper end to make it higher than the Gong sound.
However, the palace and shang are all the main voices in the middle range, and the other sounds are doubled in the bass range. Therefore, from the position below the palace hole to the lower part of the flute body, the sounds also turn into the bass range.
This section describes the order of the upper and lower parts of the flute.
The next paragraph says that the law and the Lu are mutually reinforcing, which is the rhythm of the flute.
The law is rightly tuned, and the yellow bell is the palace.
To make a Huang Zhong flute, the Gong sound hole is required to be measured from the blowing hole at the head of the flute downwards using the lengths of Gu Xi Lu and Huang Zhong Lu. Make a hole at the sum of the lengths of Huang Zhong Lu and Gu Xi Lu, which is the Gong hole.
Gong gives birth to Zheng, Huang Zhong gives birth to Lin Zhong.
Use the length of Lin Zhonglu to measure from the palace hole downwards. If the length of Lin Zhonglu is full of holes, it is called the Zheng Kong.
Zheng gave birth to Shang, and Lin Zhong gave birth to Taigong.
Use the length of the human pole to measure from the Zheng hole upwards. If you open a hole at the length of the Tai pole, it is the Shang hole.
Shang gave birth to Yu, and Taifu gave birth to Nanlu.
Use the length of Nanlulu to measure from the Shang hole downwards. If the hole is opened at the length of Nanlulu, it is the Feather hole.
Yushengjiao, Nanlushengguxi.
Use the length of the Guxilu to measure upward from the feather hole. If the hole is opened at the length of the length of the Guxilu, it is the horn hole.
However, it is above the Shang Kong, and the flute player can no longer press it with his left hand.
Measuring from the lower part of the feather hole, you can find a corner hole by opening a hole in the center of Mangu Xilu. However, it is under the Shangfu hole and the flute player's right hand cannot take care of it, so no corner hole is made.
Extrapolating downward, one octave lower would be the horn sound produced by a tube sound with a fully closed sound hole. This is an ancient standard.
Although the old method of opening holes by musicians has been lowered by two octaves, their pitch framework has not changed. It is just suitable for singing and singing music performances without damaging the expressiveness of the tune at all.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
《国语》曰，匏竹利制，议宜，谓便于事用从宜者也。角生变宫，姑洗生应钟也。
上句所谓当为角孔而出于商上者，墨点识之，以应钟律。从此点下行度之，尽律为孔，则得变宫之声也。
变宫生变徵，应钟生蕤宾也。
以蕤宾律从变宫下度之，尽律为孔，则得变徵之声。
十二笛之制，各以其宫为主，相生之法，或倍或半，其便事用，例皆一也。
下徵调法：林钟为宫，第四孔也。本正声黄钟之徵。
徵清，当在宫上，用笛之宜，倍令浊下，故曰下徵。
下徵更为宫者，《记》所谓 五声，十二律还相为宫 也。然则正声清，下徵为浊也。
南吕为商，第三孔也。
本正声黄钟之羽，今为下徵之商也。
应钟为角，第二孔也。
本正声黄钟之变宫，今为下徵之角也。
黄钟为变徵，下徵之调，林钟为宫，大吕当为变徵，而黄钟笛本无大吕之声，故假用黄钟以为变徵也。
假用之法，当为变徵之声，则俱发黄钟及太蔟、应钟三孔。
黄钟应浊而太蔟清，大吕律在二律之间，俱发三孔而徵硙蒦之，则得大吕变徵之声矣。
诸笛下徵调求变徵之法，皆如此也。
太蔟为徵，笛后出孔。
本正声之商，今为下徵之徵也。
姑洗为羽，笛体中翕声。
本正声之角，今为下徵之羽。
蕤宾为变宫。
附孔是也。
本正声之变徵也，今为下徵之变宫也。
然则正声之调，孔转下转浊，下徵之调，孔转上转清也。
清角之调：以姑洗为宫，即是笛体中翕声。
于正声为角，于下徵为羽。
清角之调乃以为宫，而哨吹令清，故曰清角。
惟得为宛诗谣俗之曲，不合雅乐也。
蕤宾为商，正也。
林钟为角，非正也。
translation: 
"Mandarin" states that the tunes of sheng and xiao instruments are easy to standardize, and this statement is appropriate, which means that they are easy to use flexible methods to solve problems. The corner is born to change the palace, and the aunt is born to answer the bell.
The sound hole mentioned in the previous sentence should be a corner hole and comes out of the upper part of the Shang hole. It is marked with an ink dot and measured downward from this point with the length of Yingzhong's rhythm. If the hole is opened at the length of Yingzhong's rhythm, it is the palace hole.
Bian Gong gives birth to Bian Zheng, Ying Zhong gives birth to Ruibin.
Use Ruibinlu's length to measure from the Biangong hole downwards. If the hole is opened at the full length of Ruibinlu's length, it is the Bianzheng hole.
In the production of twelve flutes, each flute is mainly based on its palace sound, and the method of interplay is either an octave lower or an octave higher, whichever is easier to adapt. The principle is the same.
Fingering method for Xia Zheng tone: Lin Zhong is Gong, which is originally the Zheng tone of Huang Zhong Gong scale.
The zheng sound is high, above the palace sound. Due to the workaround on the flute hole, the zheng sound below it is an octave lower, so it is called the lower sign.
The lower Zheng tone has replaced the Gong tone, which is exactly what the "Ji" says: the five tones and the twelve melodies are in harmony with the Gong tone. However, the tone area of ​​the Zheng tone is high and the tone area of ​​the Xia Zheng tone is low.
Nan Lu was Shang, and his third son was Yi.
Originally the upright Huang Zhong tone was the Yu tone of the palace scale, but now it is the Shang tone of the lower Zheng scale.
The bell should be the corner, the second hole.
Originally the upright yellow bell was the palace scale, but now it is the horn tone of the lower Zheng tone.
Huang Zhong is Bian Zheng, Xia Zheng Tune, Lin Zhong is Gong, Da Lu should be Bian Zheng, and Huang Zhong Flute originally did not have the phoneme of Da Lu, so the Huang Zhong sound hole was used instead of Bian Zheng.
The way to play it is to open the three holes of Huang Zhong, Tai Cun and Ying Zhong together when making the change of Zheng sound.
The Huang Zhong should be low and the Tai Cun should be high. Da Lu is between the two rhythms, with all three holes open. If you press the Huang Zhong hole a little quickly and half way, you can get the pitch of Zheng Sheng Da Lu.
The same is true for other methods of tuning and changing the sound of the flute.
The Taixuan is a sign, and the hole comes out of the flute.
The original tone of Shang Sheng is now the lower tone of Zheng Sheng.
Gu Xi is a feather, and the flute hole is completely closed.
Originally the horn sound was in the upright tone, but now it is the feather sound in the lower tone.
Ruibin is a palace changer.
Attached hole.
Originally it was Bian Zheng in the upright tone, but now it is Bian Gong in the lower Zheng tone.
However, in the positive tone, the sound hole is at the bottom, and the sound range is also low; in the lower tone, the sound hole is upward, and the sound range is also high.
Fingering method for the tune of Qingjiao: With Guxi as the palace, it is the sound of the flute with the hole completely closed.
The main tone is the horn tone, and the lower tone is the feather tone.
The tone of Qingjiao is Gongyin, which is made an octave higher by super blowing, so it is called Qingjiao.
The music is only used for small poems and ballads, and does not conform to the standards of elegant music.
Ruibin is a businessman and his pitch is accurate.
Lin Zhong is the horn, and the pitch is not accurate.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
南吕为变徵，非正也。
应钟为徵，正也。
黄钟为羽，非正也。
太蔟为变宫。
非正也。
清角之调，唯宫、商及徵与律相应，余四声非正者皆浊，一律哨吹令清，假而用之，其例一也。
凡笛体用律，长者八之，蕤宾、林钟也。
短者四之。
其余十笛，皆四角也。
空中实容，长者十六。
短笛竹宜受八律之黍也。
若长短大小不合于此，或器用不便声均法度之齐等也。
然笛竹率上大下小，不能均齐，必不得已，取其声均合。
三宫，一曰正声，二曰下徵，三曰清角也。
二十一变也。宫有七声，错综用之，故二十一变也。
诸笛例皆一也。
伏孔四，所以便事用也。
一曰正角，出于商上者也，二曰倍角，近笛下者也，三曰变宫，近于宫孔，倍令下者也；四曰变徵，远于徵孔，倍令高者也。
或倍或半，或四分一，取则于琴徽也。
四者皆不作其孔，而取其度，以应退上下之法，所以协声均，便事用也。
其本孔隐而不见，故曰伏孔也。
大吕之笛，正声应大吕，下徵应夷则，长二尺六寸六分三厘有奇。
太蔟之笛，正声应太蔟，下徵应南吕，长二尺五寸三分一厘有奇。
夹钟之笛，正声应夹钟，下徵应无射，长二尺四寸。
姑洗之笛，正声应姑洗，下徵应应钟，长二尺二寸三分三厘有奇。
蕤宾之笛，正声应蕤宾，下徵应大吕，长三尺九寸九分五厘有奇。
变宫近宫孔，故倍半令下，便于用也。
林钟亦如之一。
林钟之笛，正声应林钟，下徵应太蔟，长三尺七寸九分七厘有奇。
夷则之笛，正声应夷则，下徵应夹钟，长三尽六寸。
变宫之法，亦如蕤宾，体用四角，故四分益一也。
南吕之笛，正声应南吕，下徵姑洗，长三尺三寸七分有奇。
无射之笛，正声应无射，下徵应中吕，长三尺二寸。
应钟之笛，正声应应钟，下徵应蕤宾，长二尺九寸九分六厘有奇。
五音十二律土音宫，数八十一，为声之始。
translation: 
Nanchang is a changed sign, and the pitch is inaccurate.
Respond to the bell as a sign, and the pitch is accurate.
Huang Zhong is a feather, and the pitch is inaccurate.
Taifu is the palace of change.
The pitch is not accurate.
In the Qingjiao tune, only the Gong, Shang and Zhengyu temperaments correspond to each other, and the pitches are accurate. The other four tones are all low in pitch. They all use superblowing to raise the tone. The pitches of the corresponding temperaments all have changes, and the principle is the same.
Generally speaking, when determining the length of a flute body, the length of the flute's angular rhythm is used as a reference. The full length of a longer flute is equivalent to eight times the length of its angular rhythm. This is the case for the Ruibin flute and the Linzhong flute.
The length of the shorter flute is equivalent to four times the length of the respective horns.
The flutes corresponding to the other ten rhythms are four times the angle rhythm of each other.
The volume of the flute tube is ten times its angular volume.
The piccolo bamboo pipe should be able to accommodate eight times the amount of millet grains per rhythm.
If the length and size of the flute are inconsistent with this, it is inconvenient for other instruments to take the pitch of the flute as the standard.
However, most bamboo pipes are larger at the top and smaller at the bottom, and the pipe diameter is uneven. This is a last resort, as long as the sound and rhythm are matched.
Of the three palaces, one is the positive tone, the second is the downward sign, and the third is the clear angle. Twenty-one changes.
Each palace has seven tones, each of which is the first tone, and they are used alternately, so there are twenty-one changes.
The principle of each flute is the same.
There are four holes, which are used to change the pitch.
The first fu hole is a positive angle, above the Shang hole; the second fu hole is an octave lower angle sound, close to the tube sound with the sound hole fully closed; the third fu hole is a Bian Gong, close to the palace hole, and is a Bian Gong within an octave lower; the fourth Fu hole is a Bian Zheng, which is farther from the Zheng hole, and is a Bian Zheng within an octave higher.
Either an octave lower, a higher octave, or an octave higher, and the ratio is the same as shown on the piano emblem.
The four holes are not actually opened, but are only sized to meet the needs of opening up and down and pronunciation, that is, to adapt to the method of making the sounds uniform and harmonious, and changing the pitch.
These holes are hidden and not visible, so they are called Fu holes.
The flute of Da Lu, the upright sound should be in accordance with the law of Da Lu, and the lower sound should be in accordance with the law of Yi Ze. It is two feet, six inches, six minutes and three centimeters long.
Taiku's flute, the upright sound should be in accordance with Taiku's rhythm, and the lower pitch should be in accordance with Nanlu's rule. It is two feet and five inches long, three-thirds and one centimeter hanging zero.
The flute of Jia Zhong, the main tone should be in accordance with the rhythm of Jia Zhong, and the lower tone should be in compliance with the rhythm of Wu Sheng. It is two feet and four inches long.
The flute of Guxi, the upright sound should be in accordance with the rhythm of Guxi, and the lower sound should be in accordance with the rhythm of the bell. It is two feet, two inches long, three thirds and three centimeters long.
Ruibin's flute, the upright sound should conform to Ruibin's rhythm, and the lower tone should conform to Dalu's rhythm. It is three feet, nine inches, nine minutes and five centimeters long.
The palace of change is close to the hole of the palace, so its high and low octaves are one octave lower for ease of use.
The same goes for Ring of Bells and Flute.
Lin Zhong's flute, the upright sound should be in accordance with the Lin Zhong rhythm, and the lower sound should be in accordance with the Taiku rhythm. It is three feet, seven inches long, nine minutes and seven centimeters long.
The flute of Yi Ze, the upright sound should be in accordance with the law of Yi Ze, and the lower sound should be in accordance with the rhythm of the bell. It is three feet and six inches long.
The determination of the changing palace hole is the same as the rhyme of Ruibin. The flute length uses four times the horn tone, so the method of four points plus one is used.
The flute of Nanlu, the main tone should be in accordance with the Nanlu rhythm, and the lower tone should be in accordance with the Guchi rhythm. It is three feet, three inches long and seven points hanging zero.
Wushe's flute, the upright tone should be in accordance with the Wushe rhythm, and the lower tone should be in line with the Zhonglu rhythm. It is three feet and two inches long.
The flute of Yingzhong, the main tone should be in accordance with the rhythm of Yingzhong, and the lower tone should be in accordance with the rhythm of Ruibin. It is two feet, nine inches, nine minutes and six centimeters long.
The earth sound is the palace, and the rhythm number is eighty-one, which is the starting point for the mutual generation of all sounds.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
属土者，以其最浊，君之象也。
季夏之气和，则宫声调。
宫乱则荒，其君骄。
黄钟之宫，律最长也。
火音徵，三分宫去一以生，其数五十四。
属火者，以其徵清，事之象也。
夏气和，则徵声调。
徵乱则哀，其事勤也。
金音商，三分徵益一以生，其数七十二。
属金者，以其浊次宫，臣之象也。
秋气和，则商声调。
商乱则诐，其官坏也。
水音羽，三分商去一以生，其数四十八。
属水者，以为最清，物之象也。
冬气和，则羽声调。
羽乱则危，其财匮也。
木音角，三分羽益一以生，其数六十四。
属木者，以其清浊中，人之象也。
春气和，则角声调。
角乱则忧，其人怨也。
凡声尊卑，取象五行，数多者浊，数少者清；大不过宫，细不过羽。
十一月，律中黄钟，律之始也，长九寸。
仲冬气至，则其律应，所以宣养六气九德也。
班固三分损一，下生林钟。
十二月，律中大吕，司马迁未下生之律，长四寸二百四十三分寸之五十二，倍之为八寸二百四十三分寸之一百四。
季冬气至，则其律应，所以助宣物也。
三分益一，上生夷则；京房三分损一，下生夷则。
正月，律中太蔟，未上生之律，长八寸。
孟春气至，则其律应，所以赞阳出滞也。
三分损一，下生南吕。
二月，律中夹钟，酉下生之律，长三寸二千一百八十七分寸之一千六百三十一，倍之为七寸二千一百八十七分寸之一千七十五。
translation: 
Because it is the lowest, it belongs to earth and is a symbol of the monarch.
If the Qi in the last month of summer is calm, the palace sounds will be harmonious.
If the palace sounds are disordered, pleasure will be excessive and the ruler will be arrogant.
Huang Zhonglu is the palace, which is the longest among all the rules.
The sound of fire is the sign, and the rhythm of the three-thirds of the sound of the palace is obtained by removing one point of it. The number is fifty-four.
The reason why it belongs to fire is because the zhengyin is higher, and it is also a symbol of things.
The air of summer is peaceful and the sound of the battle is harmonious.
If the Zhengsheng is disordered, there will be sorrow and more troubles will occur.
The golden sound is the quotient, and the three points of the rhythm of the sound are added by one point. The number is seventy-two.
The reason why it belongs to gold is because its sound is second only to the palace, and it is a symbol of ministers.
The atmosphere of autumn is peaceful, and the sound of business is harmonious.
If the business voice is disordered, the atmosphere will be unhealthy and officials will be corrupted.
The water sound is the feather, and the three-thirds of the rhythm of the Shang sound are obtained by subtracting one point from it. The number is forty-eight.
The reason why it belongs to water is because its sound is the highest and it is a symbol of things.
When the air of winter is calm, the sound of feathers becomes harmonious.
If the feather sound is disordered, there will be danger and financial scarcity.
The wooden sound is the horn, and the three-point feather sound is added to the rhythm by one point. The law number is sixty-four.
The reason why it belongs to wood is that its pitch is moderate and it is a symbol of human beings.
The air of spring is peaceful, and the sound of the trumpet is harmonious.
If the trumpet sound is disordered, it will cause trouble and cause people's resentment.
Musical sounds have their own dignity and inferiority, based on the Five Elements, the sound with more rules is lower, and the sound with less rules is higher; the sound with a big sound is not as low as the palace sound, and the sound with a few small sounds is not as high as the feather sound.
In November, the corresponding rhythm is Huang Zhong, which is the beginning of the twelve rhythms and is nine inches long.
When the Qi of the second month of winter comes, this law is combined accordingly to comprehensively cultivate the virtues of the six Qi and the nine merits.
Ban Gu's record is that if three points of the law are lost, one will be lost, and Lin Zhong will be born.
In December, the corresponding law was Da Lu. The law recorded by Sima Qian, who was born before he became emperor, was four and 243/52 inches long, twice as long as 8 and 243/104 inches.
When the qi of the third month of winter comes, this law will be combined accordingly to help the yang qi cultivate various species.
Three-thirds will benefit one, and Yi will be born on the top; Jingfang's record is that three-thirds will lose one, and Yi will be born on the bottom.
In the first lunar month, the corresponding law is Tai Cun, the law born before the ascendant is eight inches long.
When the Qi of the first month of spring comes, the law will be combined accordingly, and the Yang Qi will leave the stagnant state.
Three points will be lost and one will be lost, and Nanlu will be born.
In February, the corresponding law is Jia Zhong, and the law born from the position of You is three and one thousand six hundred and thirty-one inches long, and twice its length is seven and one thousand seventy-five inches.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
仲春气至，则其律应，所以出四隙之细也。
三分益一，上生无射；京房三分损一，下生无射。
三月，律中姑洗，酉上生之律，长七寸九分寸之一。
季春气至，则其律应，所以修絜百物，考神纳宾也。
三分损一，下生应钟。
四月，律中中吕，亥下生之律，长三寸万九千六百八十三分寸之六千四百八十七，倍之为六寸万九千六百八十三分寸之万二千九百七十四。
孟夏气至，则其律应，所以宣中气也。
五月，律中蕤宾，亥上生之律，长六寸八十一分寸之二十六。
仲夏气至，则其律应，所以安静人神，献酬交酢也。
三分损一，下生大吕；京房三分益一，上生大吕。
六月，律中林钟，丑下生之律，长六寸。
季夏气至，则其律应，所以和展百物，俾莫不任肃纯恪也。
三分益一，上生太蔟。
七月，律中夷则，丑上生之律，长五寸七百二十九分寸之四百五十一。
孟秋气至，则其律应，所以咏歌九则，平百姓而无贷也。
三分损一，下生夹钟；京房三分益一，上生夹钟。
八月，律中南吕，卯下生之律，长五寸三分寸之一。
仲秋气至，则其律应，所以赞阳秀也。
三分益一，上生姑洗。
九月，律中无射，卯上生之律，长四寸六千五百六十一分寸之六千五百二十四。
季秋气至，则其律应，所以宣布哲人之令德，示人轨仪也。
三分损一，下生中吕；京房三分益一，上生中吕。
十月，律中应钟，巳下生之律，长四寸二十七分寸之二十。
孟冬气至，则其律应，所以均利器用，俾应复也。
三分益一，上生蕤宾。
淮南、京房、郑玄诸儒言律历，皆上下相生，至蕤宾又重上生大吕，长八寸二百四十三分寸之百四；夷则上生夹钟，长七寸千一百八十七分寸之千七十五；无射上生中吕，长六寸万九千六百八十三分寸之万二千九百七十四；此三品于司马迁、班固所生之寸数及分皆倍焉，余则并同。
translation: 
When the Qi of the second month of spring comes, the law will respond and the subtle Qi of the four seasons can be released.
Three points will benefit one, and there will be no shooting for the upper body; Jingfang will lose one with three points, and there will be no shooting for the lower body.
In March, the corresponding law is Gu Xi. The law born in the You position is seven and one-ninth of an inch long.
When the Qi comes in the last month of spring, the law will be in compliance, and everything will be neat and clean, which can be used to offer sacrifices to gods and guests.
Three points lose one, and the next life will answer the bell.
In April, the corresponding law is Zhonglu, born under the position of Hai, with a length of three and nineteen thousand six hundred and eighty-thirds six thousand four hundred and eighty-seven cun, twice as long as six and nineteen thousand six hundred and eighty-third twelve thousand nine hundred and seventy-four cun.
When the Qi comes in the first month of summer, this law will be in harmony to cultivate Yang Qi.
In the fifth month, the corresponding law is Ruibin. The law born in the Hai position is six and twenty-six/81 inches long.
When the Qi of the second month of summer comes, this law will be in compliance. It can make gods and men calm down and toast to each other like a guest and a host.
Three points loses one, and Da Lu will be born in the lower part; use three points in Jingfang to gain one, and Da Lu will be born in the upper part.
In June, the corresponding law is Lin Zhong. The law born from the Chou position is six inches long.
When the Qi comes in the last month of summer, this law will respond. It will make current affairs smooth, everything will be done without falsehood, people will do their own thing, and achieve quick success.
Three points are beneficial to one, and the upper body is too gloomy.
In July, the corresponding law is Yi Ze, and the law born in Chou position is five and 451/729 inches long.
When the Qi of the first month of autumn comes, the law will be in harmony, and the virtues of the Nine Gongs can be sung to fulfill the people's aspirations and make them no longer doubtful.
Three points loses one, and the lower part is a bell; use three points of the capital to gain one, and the upper part is a bell.
In August, the corresponding law is Nanlu, and the law born under the position of Mao is five and one-third inches long.
When the Qi of the second month of autumn comes, the law will be combined accordingly and assist in the formation of all things.
Three points equals one, and I will give birth to my aunt.
In the ninth month, the corresponding law is Wushe, and the law born in the Mao position is four and six thousand five hundred and twenty-four inches long.
When the Qi comes in the last month of autumn, the law will be combined accordingly, and it can announce the virtues of philosophers and the standards of life.
Three points loses one, and the lower part will give birth to Zhong Lu; use three points of Jingfang to gain one, and the upper part will give birth to Zhong Lu.
In the tenth month, the corresponding law is Ying Zhong, and the law obtained by the descendant is four and twenty-sevenths of an inch long.
When the Qi of the first month of winter comes, the law will be in compliance with it, and all the tools will be in place, which will be beneficial to world affairs, and all organs and organs will be able to return to the normal state corresponding to their rituals.
Three points make one, and Ruibin will be born.
Scholars from Huainan, Jingfang, and Zheng Xuan studied the law and calendar, and they all believed that the upper and lower generations came to Ruibin Law, and repeated the upper birth to Dalu Law, which was eight and two hundred and forty-three hundred and four inches long; Fifteen inches; Wushe Shang gave birth to Zhonglu, which was six and nineteen thousand six hundred and eighty-third and twelve thousand nine hundred and seventy-four inches long: these three calculations in the records of Sima Qian and Ban Gu are all the result of multiplying the number of inches obtained by two, and the other rules are the same.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
斯则泠州鸠所谓六间之道，扬沈伏，黜散越，假之为用者也。
变通相半，随事之宜，赞助之法也。
凡音声之体，务在和均，益则加倍，损则减半，其于本音恆为无爽。
然则言一上一下者，相生之道；言重上生者，吹候之用也。
于蕤宾重上生者，适会为用之数，故言律者因焉，非相生之正也。
杨子云曰： 声生于日，谓甲己为角，乙庚为商，丙辛为徵，丁壬为羽，戊癸为宫也。
律生于辰，谓子为黄钟，丑为大吕之属也。
声以情质，质，正也。各以其行本情为正也。
律以和声，当以律管钟均和其清浊之声。
声律相协而八音生。协，和也。
宫、商、角、徵、羽，谓之五声。
金、石、匏、革、丝、竹、土、木，谓之八音。
声和音谐，是谓五乐。
夫阴阳和则景至，律气应则灰除。
是故天子常以冬夏至日御前殿，合八能之士，陈八音，听乐均，度晷景，候钟律，权土灰，效阴阳，冬至阳气应则灰除，是故乐均清，景长极，黄钟通，土灰轻而衡仰。
夏至阴气应则乐均浊，景短极，蕤宾通，土灰重而衡低。
进退于先后五日之中，八能各以候状闻，太史令封上。
效则和，否则占。
候气之法，为室三重，户闭，涂衅周密，布缇幔。
室中以木为案，每律各一，内房中外高，从其方位，加律其上，以葭莩灰抑其内端，案历而候之：气至者灰去；其为气所动者，其灰散；人及风所动者，其灰聚。
殿中候用玉律十二，惟二至乃候。
translation: 
Those words about Liu Jian mentioned by Lingzhou Jiu, the so-called promotion of stagnant energy and abandonment of exciting emotions, are all false and useful words.
The workarounds of double or half are appropriate to the situation and enrich the method of generating laws.
The length of the tempered pipe is mainly about the pitch that is consistent with the tune. The so-called gain of one means that the sound is an octave lower. The so-called loss of one means that the sound is an octave higher. There is no difference in the essence of the sound.
However, what is said is that one is born above and the other is born below. This is the principle of mutual growth. It is advocated to repeat the birth above and use it for the sake of climate.
In Ruibin, Sangsheng is always used repeatedly, and the number is adapted to this situation. Therefore, what people who study the law inherit is not the correct method of law and Lu Xiangsheng.
Yang Ziyun said: The five tones are derived from the method of remembering, that is, Jiaji is the horn, Yigeng is the Shang, Bingxin is the Zheng, Dingren is the Yu, and Wugui is the palace.
The law originated from the method of recording time, that is, the son is called Huang Zhong, the ugly is Da Lu, etc.
The five tones are righteous to express emotions, and the quality is righteousness. Each tone is righteous according to the emotion it represents.
The temperament is used to adjust the consonants, and the pitch system represented by the temperament should be used to standardize the pitch of the sound.
Only when the rhythm is harmonious can musical instruments be produced. Xie means harmony.
Gong, Shang, Jiao, Zheng, and Yu are called the five tones.
Various musical instruments of gold, stone, gourd, leather, silk, bamboo, earth and wood are called eight tones.
The eight tones can harmonize with the five tones and are called five kinds of music.
If the yin and yang are in harmony, the sundial shadow will be accurate, the qi of the law will be fulfilled, and the ashes in the tube will fly away.
Therefore, the emperor often visited the front hall on the days of the winter solstice and summer solstice, summoned people who could coordinate the yin and yang rhythms and calendars, put out various musical instruments, listened to the rhythms, examined the shadows of the sundials, waited for the rhythm of the bells, and weighed the earth and charcoal to measure the yin and yang energy. On the day of the winter solstice, the yang energy responds to the rhythm and the ashes fly away, so the music sound is high, the sundial shadow is long, the yellow bell rhythm tube is transparent, the earth charcoal is light and the scale is raised.
On the day of the summer solstice, when the Yin Qi corresponds to the rhythm, the music will be low, the sundial shadow will be extremely short, the Ruibin rhythm tube will be transparent, the earth will be heavy and the scales will be low.
These obvious changes in growth and decline occurred within five consecutive days. Scholars who reconciled the yin and yang rhythms and calendars reported the signs they saw to the emperor, and Taishi ordered the results to be sealed.
If it comes true, it means peace; if it doesn't, it means predicting good or bad luck.
The method of weathering is to build a triple secret room, close the door tightly, paint the four walls with blood, and hang orange curtains.
Make a wooden case for each rhythm position in the house, with the surface low and the outside high. According to the orientation, place the law tube on the table, press the Jia Chi ashes into the tube, and wait for the Qi to arrive according to the calendar: when the Qi arrives, the Jia Chi ashes will fly away; if it is really moved by the Qi, the Jia Chi ashes will fly away; if it is moved by the wind or people, the Jia Chi ashes will gather.
The weather in the palace is controlled by twelve jade branches, which can only be done during the winter solstice and summer solstice.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
灵台用竹律。
杨泉记云： 取弘农宜阳县金门山竹为管，河内葭莩为灰。
或云以律著室中，随十二辰埋之，上与地平，以竹莩灰实律中，以罗縠覆律吕，气至吹灰动縠。
小动为和，大动，君弱臣强；不动，君严暴之应也。
审度起度之正，《汉志》言之详矣。
武帝泰始九年，中书监荀勖校太乐，八音不和，始知后汉至魏，尺长于古四分有余。
勖乃部著作郎刘恭依《周礼》制尺，所谓古尺也。
依古尺更铸铜律吕，以调声韵。
以尺量古器，与本铭尺寸无差。
又，汲郡盗发六国时魏襄王冢，得古周时玉律及钟、磬，与新律声韵闇同。
于时郡国或得汉时故钟，吹律命之皆应。
勖铭其尺曰： 晋泰始十年，中书考古器，揆校今尺，长四分半。
所校古法有七品：一曰姑洗玉律，二曰小吕玉律，三曰西京铜望臬，四曰金错望臬，五曰铜斛，六曰古钱，七曰建武铜尺。
姑洗微强，西京望臬微弱，其余与此尺同。
铭八十二字。
此尺者勖新尺也，今尺者杜夔尺也。
荀勖造新钟律，与古器谐韵，时人称其精密，惟散骑侍郎陈留阮咸讥其声高，声高则悲，非兴国之音，亡国之音。
亡国之音哀以思，其人困。
今声不合雅，惧非德正至和之音，必古今尺有长短所致也。
会咸病卒，武帝以勖律与周汉器合，故施用之。
后始平掘地得古铜尺，岁久欲腐，不知所出何代，果长勖尺四分，时人服咸之妙，而莫能厝意焉。
史臣案： 勖于千载之外，推百代之法，度数既宜，声韵又契，可谓切密，信而有徵也。
而时人寡识，据无闻之一尺，忽周汉之两器，雷同臧否，何其谬哉！
《世说》称 有田父于野地中得周时玉尺，便是天下正尺，荀勖试以校己所治金石丝竹，皆短校一米 。
又，汉章帝时，零陵文学史奚景于泠道舜祠下得玉律，度以为尺，相传谓之汉官尺。
translation: 
The spiritual platform uses bamboo rhythm tubes.
Yang Quan described: The bamboos from Jinmen Mountain in Yiyang County, Hongnong were used to make the pipes, and the bamboo from Hanoi was used as ashes.
In other words, place the rhythm tube in the room and bury it at the twelve o'clock position, with the upper end level with the ground. Put bamboo ash into the tube, cover the rhythm tube with thin silk fabric, and when the air is blown, blow the ash to make the filaments shake.
A small tremor indicates peace; a large tremor indicates a weak king and a strong minister; no tremor indicates a harsh and tyrannical king.
For the correct length standard, the description in "Mozhi" is very detailed.
In the ninth year of Emperor Wu's reign, Xun Xu, the supervisor of the Zhongshu, checked Taiyue. Various musical instruments were at odds with each other. He learned that from Houmo to Wei, the standard of the ruler was more than four points longer than in ancient times.
Xun Xu then led the author Liu Gong to make the scale according to the standards of "Zhou Rites", which is the so-called ancient ruler.
The copper temperament pipe was recast according to the ancient ruler and used to adjust the rhythm.
Use this standard to measure ancient artifacts, and there is no discrepancy with the dimensions engraved on the artifacts.
Later, Jijun robbed the tomb of King Wei Xiang of the Six Kingdoms period and obtained the jade rhythm and bell and chime instruments of the ancient Zhou Dynasty, which were also secretly consistent with the new rhythm.
At that time, if ancient bells from the Han Dynasty were obtained in some areas, they would be consistent if they were blown to the new rhythm and checked.
Xun Xu's inscription on the ruler is: In the tenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Zhongshu examined the ancient artifacts and checked the current ruler with reference to it, and found that it was four and a half minutes longer than the ancient ruler.
There are seven types of ancient standard artifacts on which it is based: the first is Guxi Yulu, the second is Xiaolu Yulu, the third is Xijing Bronze Watch, the fourth is Jincuo Watch, the fifth is Bronze Dendrobium, the sixth is ancient coins, and the seventh is Jianwu Bronze Ruler.
Among them, the Guxi Yulu is slightly longer and the Xijing Wangzhi is slightly shorter. The rest of the instruments are the same as this ruler.
The inscription contains a total of eighty-two characters.
This ruler is the new ruler of Xun Xu, and the current ruler is Du Kui ruler.
The new clock rhythm made by Xun Xu was consistent with the measurement standards of ancient artifacts. People at that time praised its precision. Only Chen Liuyi, the minister of Sanqi, ridiculed him for his high pitch, which would cause sorrow. It was not music for the rejuvenation of the country, but music for the destruction of the country.
The music of a subjugated country is sad and sad, and people are trapped in poverty.
Nowadays, the melody does not conform to the standards of elegant music. I am afraid that it is not the harmonious sound that embodies great virtue. It must be caused by the different lengths of ancient rulers and modern rulers.
When Ruan Xian died of illness, Emperor Wu believed that the legal instruments made by Xun Xu were consistent with the standard instruments of the Zhou and Mo dynasties, so he issued an edict to use them.
Later, he dug in the ground and obtained an ancient copper ruler. The shape was corroded over time. It was unknown what dynasty it was. It was indeed four minutes longer than Xun Xu's ruler. People admired Ruan Xian's wisdom, but they could no longer attract their attention.
Historians believe that after a thousand years, Xunxu deduced that the laws of a hundred generations ago were of suitable scale and consistent with the pronunciation. They were accurate, precise, convincing and verified.
At that time, people were ill-informed and based on an unheard-of ruler, ignored the calibration of Zhou Mo's two generations of standards, and went along with them to praise and criticize. The fallacy reached the extreme!
"Shishuo" states that the jade ruler from the Zhou Dynasty that Tian's father obtained in the countryside was the standard ruler for the world. Xun Xu tried to use it to calibrate various musical instruments of gold, stone, silk and bamboo he made, but all were short by a few points.
In addition, during the reign of Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty, Xi Jing, a literary historian in Lingling, obtained the Yulu in the underground of Shun Temple in Lingdao. As a standard of scale, it is said that it was called the Han Palace Ruler.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
以校荀勖尺，勖尺短四分；汉官、始平两尺，长短度同。
又，杜夔所用调律尺，比勖新尺，得一尺四分七厘。
魏景元四年，刘徽注《九章》云：王莽时刘歆斛尺弱于今尺四分五厘，比魏尺其斛深九寸五分厘；即荀勖所谓今尺长四分半是也。
元帝后，江东所用尺，比荀勖尺一尺六分二厘。
赵刘曜光初四年铸浑仪，八年铸土圭，其尺比荀勖尺一尺五分。
荀勖新尺惟以调音律，至于人间未甚流布，故江左及刘曜仪表，并与魏尺略相依准。
嘉量《周礼》： 栗氏为量，鬴深尺，内方尺而圆其外，其实一鬴。其臀一寸，其实一豆。其耳三寸，其实一升。
重一钧，其声中黄钟。
概而不税。其铭曰： 时文思索，允臻其极。
嘉量既成，以观四国。
永启厥后，兹器维则。  《春秋左氏传》曰： 齐旧四量，豆、区、釜、钟。四升曰豆，各自其四，以登于釜。
四豆为区，区斗六升也。
四区为釜，六斗四升也。
釜十则钟，六十四斗也。
郑玄以为釜方尺，积千寸，比《九章粟米法》少二升八十一分升之二十二。
以算术考之，古斛之积凡一千五百六十二寸半，方尺而圆其外，减傍一厘八毫，其径一尺四寸一分四毫七秒二忽有奇，而深尺，即古斛之制也。
《九章商功法》程粟一斛，积二千七百寸；米一斛，积一千六百二十七寸；菽荅麻麦一斛，积二千四百三十寸。
translation: 
Used to check Xunxu's ruler, Xunxu's ruler is four points shorter; Hangong ruler and Shiping ruler, the two feet are the same length.
In addition, the tuning ruler used by Du Kui, compared with Xun Xu's new ruler, was one quarter and seven centimeters per ruler.
In the fourth year of Wei Jingyuan, Liu Hui commented on "Nine Chapters" and said: Liu Xin's dendrobium ruler during Wang Mang's reign was four and a half centimeters shorter than today's ruler. Compared with the Wei ruler, its height was nine inches and five centimeters and a half centimeters; this is what Xun Xu said about the current ruler's length of four and a half cents.
After Emperor Yuan, the scale used by Jiangdong was equal to Xun Xu's ruler, one foot six points and two centimeters.
The armillary sphere was cast in the fourth year of the reign of Liu Yaoguang of Zhao Dynasty, and the Tugui was cast in the eighth year. Its ruler was equal to one and a half of Xun Xu's ruler.
Xun Xu's new ruler was only used for tuning, and it was not widely circulated in civil society transactions. Therefore, Jiangzuo and Liu Yao's instruments are roughly equivalent to Wei ruler.
"Zhou Li" records: The Jia Liang made by Li includes a fu, which is one foot high and has a volume of a one-foot-square cube inside a cylinder, with a capacity of one fu; the bottom of the Jia Liang is called the hip, one inch high, and the capacity is one bean; the Jia Liang has ears on both sides, three inches high, and the capacity is one liter.
The total weight of the capacity is one jun, and its size standard comes from the yellow bell rhythm tube.
When measuring, the surface of each part should be scraped flat to prevent the actual object from overflowing when measured. Its inscription is: This is the thinking and exploration of the civilization of the times, and it strives to achieve perfection with integrity.
Now that the Jia Liang has been made, the measurement standards in various places can be examined, and its laws can be used to inform future generations forever.
"The Biography of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period" records: In the past, the state of Qi had four capacity units: Dou, District, Fu, and Zhong. Four liters are equivalent to one bean, and the following are promoted to 黼 with four liters.
That is, four beans are divided into areas, and one area is equal to one bucket of six liters.
The fourth area is Fu, one breast equals six buckets and four liters.
Ten seals constitute one bell, and one bell equals sixty-four dou.
Zheng Xuan believed that the volume of the one-foot-square container inside the fu was one thousand cubic inches, which was two and twenty-two/81 liters less than the "Nine Chapters on Corn Method".
Using arithmetic to examine it, the volume of the ancient dendrobium is one thousand five hundred and sixty-two and one-half cubic inches. If the diagonal line of a one-foot-square square is inscribed in a circle, and one centimeter and eight centimeters is needed to be subtracted from the side, its diameter should be one foot four inches, one minute, four millimeters, seven seconds, and two seconds, and the height is one foot, which is the shape of the ancient dendrobium.
"Nine Chapters of Shang Gong Method" believes that one dendrobium of millet has a volume of 2,700 cubic inches; one dendrobium of rice has a volume of 1,627 cubic inches; one dendrobium of beans, sesame and wheat has a volume of 2,430 cubic inches.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
此据精粗为率，使价齐，而不等其器之积寸也。以米斛为正，则同于《汉志》。
魏陈留王景元四年，刘徽注《九章商功》曰： 当今大司农斛，圆径一尺三寸五分五厘，深一尺，积一千四百四十一寸十分寸之三。
王莽铜斛，于今尺为深九寸五分五厘，径一尺三寸六分八厘七毫。以徽术计之，于今斛为容九斗七升四合有奇。
魏斛大而尺长，王莽斛小而尺短也。
衡权衡权者，衡，平也；权，重也。
衡所以任权而均物，平轻重也。
古有黍、垒、锤、锱、镮、钧、锊、镒之目，历代参差。
《汉志》言衡权名理甚备，自后变更，其详未闻。
元康中，裴頠以为医方人命之急，而称两不与古同，为害特重，宜因此改治权衡，不见省。
赵石勒十八年七月，造建德殿，得圆石，状如水碓，铭曰： 律权石，重四钧，同律度量衡。
有辛氏造。
续咸议，是王莽时物。
translation: 
These are different standards established based on the different densities of the substances to be tolerated. Although the capacity units of different substances to be tolerated are the same, their actual values ​​are different. The capacity of Dendrobium is based on rice dendrobium, which is the same as "Han Zhi".
King Chenliu of Wei Dynasty: In the 54th year of Kuang Dynasty, he commented on "Nine Chapters" by Plastic Tunnel. "Shang Gong" said: Today's large Dendrobium sinong has a circular diameter of one foot three inches and five minutes and five centimeters, a height of one foot, and a volume of one thousand four hundred and forty-one and three-tenths cubic inches.
The height of the king stem copper dendrobium is equal to nine inches and a half and a half centimeters of today's chi, and its diameter is one foot and three inches, six minutes and eight centimeters and seven millimeters. According to Liu Hui's calculation method, it is equal to the capacity of nine buckets, seven liters and four hanging zeros of today's dendrobium.
"魭" means that Dendrobium officinale is large and long, while Dendrobium of Wangmang is small and short.
The explanation of Weng Quan is that Heng means balance; Quan means weight.
Weighing is to measure the weight and quantity of substances by weight.
In ancient times, there were different units such as millet, lei, hammer, 锱,糳, hook, e, and yi. The standards of units in the past dynasties were different.
"Mo Zhi" talks about the name and principle of weighing in great detail, but we have not heard about the changes in the system in detail in the future.
During the Wuchen period, the tomb inscription held that the doctor's prescription was life-threatening, and the weighing unit was different from the ancient system, which caused serious harm and the weighing system should be reformed, but there was no introspection.
In July of the 18th year of Zhao Shile's reign, when the Jianlong Hall was being built, a round stone was obtained, which was shaped like a water hammer, with an inscription engraved on it: The law and authority stone weighs four hooks to unify the laws, weights and measures.
Produced by Xin.
It is said to be from Wang Mang's time.


