Chunk 0: 
original: 
萧子恪，字景冲，兰陵人，齐豫章文献王嶷第二子也。
永明中，以王子封南康县侯。
年十二，和从兄司徒竟陵王《高松赋》，卫军王俭见而奇之。
初为宁朔将军、淮陵太守，建武中，迁辅国将军、吴郡太守。
大司马王敬则于会稽举兵反，以奉子恪为名，明帝悉召子恪兄弟亲从七十余人入西省，至夜当害之。
会子恪弃郡奔归，是日亦至，明帝乃止，以子恪为太子中庶子。
东昏即位，迁秘书监，领右军将军，俄为侍中。
中兴二年，迁辅国谘议参军。
天监元年，降爵为子，除散骑常侍，领步兵校尉，以疾不拜，徙为光禄大夫，俄为司徒左长史。
子恪与弟子范等，尝因事入谢，高祖在文德殿引见之，从容谓曰： 我欲与卿兄弟有言。
夫天下之宝，本是公器，非可力得。
苟无期运，虽有项籍之力，终亦败亡。
所以班彪《王命论》云： 所求不过一金，然终转死沟壑 。
卿不应不读此书。
宋孝武为性猜忌，兄弟粗有令名者，无不因事鸩毒，所遗唯有景和。
至于朝臣之中，或疑有天命而致害者，枉滥相继，然而或疑有天命而不能害者，或不知有天命而不疑者，于时虽疑卿祖，而无如之何。
此是疑而不得。
又有不疑者，如宋明帝本为庸常被免，岂疑而得全？
又复我于时已年二岁，彼岂知我应有今日？
当知有天命者，非人所害，害亦不能得。
我初平建康城，朝廷内外皆劝我云： 时代革异，物心须一，宜行处分。
我于时依此而行，谁谓不可！
我政言江左以来，代谢必相诛戮，此是伤于和气，所以国祚例不灵长。
所谓 殷鉴不远，在夏后之世。
此是一义。
translation: 
Xiao Zike, whose courtesy name was Jingchong, was the second son of Lanlingru, Xiao Yi, the king of literature in Yuzhang of the Qi Dynasty.
During the Yongming Dynasty, he was named Marquis of Nankang County because he was a prince.
When he was twelve years old, he wrote "Gaosong Fu" with his cousin King Situ Jingling. The guard Gongjian saw him and admired him very much.
He first served as General Ningshuo and Grand Administrator Jinduo. During the Jiangan period, he moved to General Fu Guo and Grand Administrator Wujun.
Grand Sima Wang Jingze raised troops in Kuaiji to rebel. In the name of supporting Zijian, Dandantong summoned more than 70 Wang Tan brothers to the Western Province and planned to kill them at night.
Shizi abandoned Wu County and fled back. He rushed to the capital that day, so Emperor Ming did not harm them. Appointed Wang Yan as the crown prince's concubine.
Donghunhou ascended the throne, moved to the post of secretary supervisor, led the right army general, and soon became the minister.
In the second year of Zhongxing Dynasty, he moved to the post of auxiliary to consult the country and join the army.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was demoted to viscount, appointed as a regular attendant of the cavalry, and a captain of the infantry. However, he was not appointed because of illness. He was moved to the post of Guanglu doctor, and soon he was appointed as the chief historian of Situ Zuo.
Fan and others, disciples of Xiao Zike, once came to court to express gratitude for their affairs. Emperor Gaozu received them in the Hall of Wende and calmly said to them: I want to say a few words to you brothers.
The most precious thing in the world is fame and fortune, but it cannot be obtained by force.
If there is no luck, even with Xiang Ji's strength, he will eventually fail.
Therefore, Mo Ai's "The Theory of King's Destiny" says: What he sought was just a gold, but he ended up tossing and dying in a ravine.
You should not not read this book.
Emperor Xiaowu of the Song Dynasty was jealous by nature, and all of his brothers with a slight reputation were poisoned to death for no apparent reason. The only one who survived was Liu Ziye.
As for the ministers of the imperial court, they may be killed on suspicion of destiny, which is a mistake, and innocent victims follow one after another. However, there are also those who doubt a person's destiny but cannot kill him, or who do not know that a person has a destiny but do not doubt him. At that time, although he doubted your grandfather, he did not know how to treat him.
This is when people are suspected but not killed.
There are also people who are not suspected. For example, Emperor Ming of the Song Dynasty was exempted because of his mediocrity and inaction, but he was saved because he was suspected.
Then again, I was already two years old at that time, how could he know that I should be where I am today.
You should know that people with destiny cannot be harmed by humans, and even if you want to harm them, you cannot succeed.
When I first pacified Jiankang City, people inside and outside the court advised me: Times have changed, people must be united, and punishments must be implemented.
I acted according to this theory at that time, who would say it’s not possible!
I was saying that since the founding of Jiangzuo, if we want to change dynasties, we must kill each other. This is damaging to harmony, so the national destiny cannot be broad and long-lasting as usual.
The so-called lessons of Xia's demise are right in front of us, and the descendants of Yin should take them as a warning.
This is the first meaning.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
二者，齐梁虽曰革代，义异往时。
我与卿兄弟虽复绝服二世，宗属未远。
卿勿言兄弟是亲，人家兄弟自有周旋者，有不周旋者，况五服之属邪？
齐业之初，亦是甘苦共尝，腹心在我。卿兄弟年少，理当不悉。
我与卿兄弟，便是情同一家，岂当都不念此，作行路事。
此是二义。
我有今日，非是本意所求。
且建武屠灭卿门，致卿兄弟涂炭。我起义兵，非惟自雪门耻，亦是为卿兄弟报仇。
卿若能在建武、永元之世，拨乱反正，我虽起樊、邓，岂得不释戈推奉；其虽欲不已，亦是师出无名。
我今为卿报仇，且时代革异，望卿兄弟尽节报我耳。
且我自藉丧乱，代明帝家天下耳，不取卿家天下。
昔刘子舆自称成帝子，光武言 假使成帝更生，天下亦不复可得，况子舆乎 。
梁初，人劝我相诛灭者，我答之犹如向孝武时事：彼若苟有天命，非我所能杀；若其无期运，何忽行此，政足示无度量。
曹志亲是魏武帝孙，陈思之子，事晋武能为晋室忠臣，此即卿事例。
卿是宗室，情义异佗，方坦然相期，卿无复怀自外之意。
小待，自当知我寸心。
又文献王时，内斋直帐阉人赵叔祖，天监初，入为台齐斋帅，在寿光省，高祖呼叔祖曰： 我本识汝在北第，以汝旧人，故每驱使。
汝比见北第诸郎不？
叔祖奉答云： 比多在直，出外甚疏，假使暂出，亦不能得往。
高祖曰： 若见北第诸郎，道我此意：我今日虽是革代，情同一家；但今磐石未立，所以未得用诸郎者，非惟在我未宜，亦是欲使诸郎得安耳。
但闭门高枕，后自当见我心。
叔祖即出外具宣敕语。
子恪寻出为永嘉太守。
还除光禄卿，秘书监。
出为明威将军、零陵太守。
十七年，入为散骑常侍、辅国将军。
普通元年，迁宗正卿。
三年，迁都官尚书。
translation: 
Furthermore, although the Qi Dynasty and the Liang Dynasty were revolutionary dynasties, their principles were different from previous revolutionary dynasties.
Although your brothers and I have not mourned each other for two generations, our clan relationship is not far apart.
Don't say that brothers are very close. Some brothers deal with each other, and some don't deal with each other. What's more, how about estranged relatives who are in mourning?
At the beginning of the founding of the Qi Dynasty, we experienced joys and sorrows together, and I also have a sincere heart. You brothers are young and should not be familiar with me.
You and I, brothers, are from the same family, why don't we think about this and act like we are strangers on the road?
This is the second meaning.
What I have today is not what I originally wanted.
Moreover, Emperor Qi Ming wants to slaughter your family and put your brothers in extremely difficult situations. I raised an army to attack him, not only to shame myself, but also to avenge your brothers.
If you could bring order to things in the reign of Emperor Ming and Marquis Donghun, how could I not lay down my weapons and support them even though I was raising troops under Fan and Deng?
Now I have avenged you and changed the dynasty. I hope you brothers will repay me as much as possible.
Moreover, I took advantage of the turbulent political situation to replace Emperor Ming and unify the world, not to seize your family's world.
In the past Liu Wangyu claimed to be Danshi's son. Guang Genzao said that even if Emperor Sheng were to be reborn, he would not be able to regain the world, let alone Ziyu.
In the early years of the Liang Dynasty, someone advised me to kill him, and I replied as follows: If he had destiny, I could not kill him; if he had no destiny, why did he do it in such a hurry? This would just show my immeasurability.
Cao Zhi is the grandson of Emperor Wu of Wei and the son of King Chen Si. Serving Emperor Wu of Jin can become a loyal minister of the Jin Dynasty. This is your example.
You are members of the clan, and your friendship is different from his, so you can treat each other calmly, and you should no longer harbor any external intentions.
If you wait a little longer, you will know my wish.
It is also reported that Zhao Shuzu, the eunuch who was in charge of the account books in Neizhai during the king's reign, was appointed commander of Taizhai in the early years of Tianjian. In Shouguang Province, Emperor Gaozu called his uncle and said: I knew you in Beidi. Because you are an old friend, I often entrust you.
Have you seen the princes from Beidi recently?
My uncle replied, "I have been working here a lot recently and rarely go out. Even if I go out temporarily, I have no time to go there."
Emperor Gaozu said: If you see the princes of Beidi, tell them what I mean: Although I have changed the dynasty, I still feel the same family as them. However, the foundation of the country today is not stable yet, so I have not appointed the princes. Not only is it inappropriate for me, but I also want to stabilize the princes.
Let them sit back and relax, and they will see my heart later.
The great-uncle immediately went out to announce the imperial edict in detail.
Xiao Zike soon became the prefect of Yongjia.
Returning to the capital, he was appointed Guanglu Qing, Secretary and Supervisor.
He served as General Mingwei and Prefect of Lingling.
In the seventeenth year, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the auxiliary country.
In the first year of Pongyang, he was moved to Zong Zhengqing.
Three years later, he was moved to the post of Du Guan Shangshu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
四年，转吏部。
六年，迁太子詹事。
大通二年，出为宁远将军、吴郡太守。
三年，卒于郡舍，时年五十二。
诏赠侍中、中书令。
谥曰恭。
子恪兄弟十六人，并仕梁。
有文学者，子恪、子质、子显、子云、子晖五人。
子恪尝谓所亲曰： 文史之事，诸弟备之矣，不烦吾复牵率，但退食自公，无过足矣。
子恪少亦涉学，颇属文，随弃其本，故不传文集。
子瑳，亦知名太清中，官至吏部郎，避乱东阳，后为盗所害。
子范字景则，子恪第六弟也。
齐永明十年，封祁阳县侯，拜太子洗马。
天监初，降爵为子，除后军记室参军，复为太子洗马，俄迁司徒主簿，丁所生母忧去职。
子范有孝性，居丧以毁闻。
服阕，又为司徒主簿，累迁丹阳尹丞，太子中舍人。
出为建安太守，还除大司马南平王户曹属，从事中郎。
王爱文学士，子范偏被恩遇，尝曰： 此宗室奇才也。
使制《千字文》，其辞甚美，王命记室蔡薳注释之。
自是府中文笔，皆使草之。
王薨，子范迁宣惠谘议参军，护军临贺王正德长史。
正德为丹阳尹，复为正德信威长史，领尹丞。
历官十余年，不出籓府，常以自慨，而诸弟并登显列，意不能平，及是为到府笺曰： 上籓首佐，于兹再忝，河南雌伏，自此重升。
以老少异时，盛衰殊日，虽佩恩宠，还羞年鬓。
子范少与弟子显、子云才名略相比，而风采容止不逮，故宦途有优劣。
每读《汉书》，杜缓兄弟 五人至大官，唯中弟钦官不至而最知名 ，常吟讽之，以况己也。
寻复为宣惠武陵王司马，不就，仍除中散大夫，迁光禄、廷尉卿。
出为戎昭将军、始兴内史。
还除太中大夫，迁秘书监。
太宗即位，召为光禄大夫，加金章紫绶，以逼贼不拜。
其年葬简皇后，使与张缵俱制哀策文，太宗览读之，曰： 今葬礼虽阙，此文犹不减于旧。
寻遇疾卒，时年六十四。
贼平后，世祖追赠金紫光禄大夫。
translation: 
Four years later, he was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
In the sixth year, he was moved to Prince Zhan Shi.
In the second year of Datong, he served as General Ningyuan and Prefect Yuxing.
Three years later, he died in Shedi, Danjun County, at the age of fifty-two.
The imperial edict was issued posthumously to Shi Zhong and Zhong Shu Ling.
The name of Mi is Gong.
There were sixteen Wang Ke brothers, all of whom served as officials in the Liang Dynasty.
There were five talented people: Zi Ke, Zizhi, Zixian, Ziyun and Zihui.
Wang Deng once said to those close to him: "My brothers are all good at literature and history. Don't bother me to guide them. As long as you give up your business and make no mistakes, you will be satisfied."
Wang Deng also dabbled in learning when he was young, and was good at writing articles, but then abandoned his original intention, so no collection of essays was handed down.
Ziyao is also very famous. During the Taiqing period, his official position reached the rank of official. He came to Dongyang to escape the war, but was later stolen and killed.
Zifan, whose courtesy name was Jingze, was the sixth younger brother of Zike.
In the 10th year of Yongming reign of the Qi Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Qiyang County and was granted the title of Prince Washing Horse.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was demoted to Viscount, granted the title of military recorder, and joined the army. He was then appointed as Prince Xi Ma, and soon moved to the position of Master Situ. He resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
Wang Huang had a filial nature, and was famous for being excessively sad and damaging to his health during mourning.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed as the chief secretary of Situ. After repeated promotions, he was appointed as Yan Yin Cheng, the crown prince.
He served as the prefect of Jian'an, and was appointed as the Grand Sima of the Imperial Household of Cao in the capital, where he worked as a lieutenant.
The king loved people with literary talents, and Wang Yan received special favors. He once said: "He is a genius in the clan."
He was asked to compile the "Thousand-Character Essay". The diction was very beautiful, and Cai Peng of the Wang Mingji Office made annotations for the essay.
From then on, all articles in the government were drafted by him.
When the king died, Zifan moved to Xuanhui to consult and join the army. The army guard came to congratulate the king, who was good at history.
Zheng was good at his duties and Yan Yin, he was also appointed as the chief official of Zhengtan Xinwei and led Yin Cheng.
After serving as an official for more than ten years, he never left the feudal prince's palace. He often felt sorry for himself. However, all his brothers had obtained high positions, and he could not balance himself. When he came to serve in the palace this time, he wrote a letter and said: I am ashamed to be the chief officer of the feudal lord at this time. I have been inferior to others in Heman, and I have been promoted since then.
Because old and young are different at the same time, and rise and fall on different days, although they receive grace, they are still ashamed of their old age.
When Wang Zheng was young, his talents and names were roughly similar to those of his younger brothers Wang Ti and Wang Zhou, but their elegance and appearance were not as good as theirs. Therefore, their paths to becoming officials were divided into pros and cons.
Every time I read "Moshu", five of Du Xu's brothers became senior officials. But the middle brother, Zhu Zhenguan, did not become a big one but was the most famous. He often sarcastically compares himself to others.
Soon after, he was appointed Sima, the fallen king of Xuanhui. Before he could take up the post, he was awarded the title of Zhongsan doctor and moved to Guanglu and Tingweiqing.
He served as general Rong Zhao and direct internal history of Zhou Dynasty.
He returned to the capital and was awarded the title of Taizhong doctor, and was moved to the position of secretary and supervisor.
Taisai ascended the throne and appointed Dr. Guanglu, who was given a gold medal and purple ribbon. However, he was not accepted because he forced the thieves to do so.
This year, Empress Jian was buried, and he was asked to write a memorial article together with Zhi Kuanglan. After Zuo Sai read it, he said: Although the funeral will not be held today, this article is no less good than in the old days.
Soon he fell ill and died at the age of sixty-four.
After the thief was put down, Shizu posthumously presented him with the title of Golden Ziguanglu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
谥曰文。
前后文集三十卷。
二子滂、确，并少有文章。
太宗东宫时，尝与邵陵王数诸萧文士，滂、确亦预焉。
滂官至尚书殿中郎，中军宣城王记室，先子范卒。
确，太清中历官宣城王友，司徒右长史。
贼平后，赴江陵，因没关西。
子显字景阳，子恪第八弟也。
幼聪慧，文献王异之，爱过诸子。
七岁，封宁都县侯。
永元末，以王子例拜给事中。
天监初，降爵为子。
累迁安西外兵，仁威记室参军，司徒主簿，太尉录事。
子显伟容貌，身长八尺。
好学，工属文。
尝著《鸿序赋》，尚书令沈约见而称曰： 可谓得明道之高致，盖《幽通》之流也。
又采众家《后汉》，考正同异，为一家之书。
又启撰《齐史》，书成，表奏之，诏付秘阁。
累迁太子中舍人，建康令，邵陵王友，丹阳尹丞，中书郎，守宗正卿。
出为临川内史，还除黄门郎。
中大通二年，迁长兼侍中。
高祖雅爱子显才，又嘉其容止吐纳，每御筵侍坐，偏顾访焉。
尝从容谓子显曰： 我造《通史》，此书若成，众史可废。
子显对曰： 仲尼赞《易》道，黜《八索》，述职方，除《九丘》，圣制符同，复在兹日。
时以为名对。
三年，以本官领国子博士。
高祖所制经义，未列学官，子显在职，表置助教一人，生十人。
又启撰高祖集，并《普通北伐记》。
其年迁国子祭酒，又加侍中，于学递述高祖《五经义》。
五年，迁吏部尚书，侍中如故。
子显性凝简，颇负其才气。
translation: 
Mi Hao Wen.
There are thirty volumes of collected works before and after.
The second son, Xiao Pang and Xiao Que, could write articles when they were young.
When Taizong was in the East Palace, he once consulted King Shaoling to plan for the scribes named Xiao, and Xiao Pang and Xiao Que were among them.
Xiao Pang was appointed as a lieutenant in the Shangshu Palace, and in the Imperial Palace of the Chinese Army, he passed away before Xiao Fan.
Xiao Que, during the Taiqing Dynasty, was the official of Xuancheng Wangyou, and Situ You was the chief historian.
After the thief was put down, he went to Hongzhi and died in Kansai.
Xiao's inscription is Ji Yan, who is Wang Deng's eighth younger brother.
He was smart when he was young, and Sesaiduo valued him and loved him more than other sons.
When he was seven years old, he was named Kongdu Tibao.
At the end of the fifth year of Cheng Dynasty, he was awarded Shizhong according to the regulations for princes to appoint officials.
In the early years of Tianjian, his title was reduced to viscount.
Lei Jing was promoted to serve as a foreign soldier in Anxi, joined the army in Renwei Jishi, Situ was in charge of bookkeeping, and Taiwei recorded affairs.
Xiao Ti has outstanding appearance and is eight feet tall.
Eager to learn and good at writing articles.
He once wrote "Hongxu Fu", and the minister ordered Shen to meet him and praise him: "It can be said that he has a noble sentiment of Mingdao, which is of the same level as "Youtong Fu".
He also collected "Hou Mo" from many schools, examined the similarities and differences between them, and became a school.
He also initiated the compilation of "History of Qi". The book was completed, reported to the public, and ordered to be delivered to the Secret Pavilion for collection.
Lei Jing was promoted to Yaoyao and served as Prince Zhongsheren, Jianchenling, Shaoling Wangyou, Danyan Yincheng, Zhongshulang, and Shouzong Zhengqing.
He was appointed as the internal history of Luochuan, and was awarded the title of Huang Menlang in the capital.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to the position of chief and minister.
Emperor Gaozu loved his son very much and admired his talent, and he admired his manner and conversation. Whenever he sat with him at the imperial banquet, he would look back and ask him questions.
Zeng Calmly said to Zixian: I compiled "General History". If this book is compiled, other history books can be abandoned.
The king's answer to the question said: "Zhu Xing clearly stated the "Yi" Dao, abandoned "Ba Suo", and described the official prescription. In addition to "Jiu Qiu", the emperor's compilation was consistent with this, and Shan Sheng's works appeared again today.
People at the time thought this was a very clever answer.
In three years, he became a doctor of Guozi as his own official.
When he was directly responsible for the compilation of classics and meanings, there was no academic officer. Zihao was appointed as a doctor of Guozi. There was one teaching assistant in the above list, and ten students of Guozi were appointed.
He also started compiling Zhidan's collection and "Ordinary Northern Expedition".
In the next year, he was moved to the post of Guozi Jijiu, and was also appointed as a servant. He continued to expound the "Five Classics" written by Gao Dan in terms of knowledge.
In the fifth year, he was moved to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but his position as a minister remained the same.
Xiao Xi has a solemn and simple personality and is very proud of her talents.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及掌选，见九流宾客，不与交言，但举扇一捴而已，衣冠窃恨之。
然太宗素重其为人，在东宫时，每引与促宴。
子显尝起更衣，太宗谓坐客曰： 尝闻异人间出，今日始知是萧尚书。
其见重如此。
大同三年，出为仁威将军、吴兴太守，至郡未几，卒，时年四十九。
诏曰： 仁威将军、吴兴太守子显，神韵峻举，宗中佳器。
分竹未久，奄到丧殒，恻怆于怀。
可赠侍中、中书令。
今便举哀。
及葬请谥，手诏 恃才傲物，宜谥曰骄 。
子显尝为《自序》，其略云： 余为邵陵王友，忝还京师，远思前比，即楚之唐、宋，梁之严、邹。
追寻平生，颇好辞藻，虽在名无成，求心已足。
天监十六年，始预九日朝宴，稠人广坐，独受旨云： 今云物甚美，卿得不斐然赋诗。
诗既成，又降帝旨曰： 可谓才子。 余退谓人曰： 一顾之恩，非望而至。
遂方贾谊何如哉？
未易当也。
每有制作，特寡思功，须其自来，不以力构。
少来所为诗赋，则《鸿序》一作，体兼众制，文备多方，颇为好事所传，故虚声易远。
子显所著《后汉书》一百卷，《齐书》六十卷，《普通北伐记》五卷，《贵俭传》三十卷，文集二十卷。
二子序、恺，并少知名。
序，太清中历官太子家令，中庶子，并掌管记。
及乱，于城内卒。
恺，初为国子生，对策高第，州又举秀才。
起家秘书郎，迁太子中舍人，王府主簿，太子洗马，父忧去职。
translation: 
When he was in charge of selecting officials, when he saw the nine-class guests, he ignored them and just waved his fan. Privately, the gentry and officials hated him.
However, Sai Saiping always valued his character, and when he was still in the palace, he often had banquets with him.
Zixian got up and went to the toilet. Taizong said to the guests: I heard that a strange person appeared recently, but today I found out that it was Xiao Shangshu.
He was valued as such.
In the third year of Datong, he served as General Renwei and Grand Administrator of Chengxuan. He died within a few days of arriving in the county at the age of forty-nine.
The edict said: General Renwei, Zixian, the governor of Wuxing County, has an outstanding demeanor and is the best talent among the royal family.
Not long after I was granted the title of official, he passed away suddenly, which made me sad.
It can be given as a posthumous gift to Shizhong and Zhongshu Ling.
You can cry now.
Please give him the nickname Mi when he is buried. The emperor himself wrote Shao Ling and said, "If you are proud of your talents, you should give him the nickname Mi."
Zixian once wrote a "Preface to his Autobiography", which roughly states: I am a friend of the King of Shaoling, and I am ashamed to return to the capital. Compared with my predecessors, I am like Tang Le and Song Yu of Chu State, and Yan Zhu and Zou Yang of Han Dynasty.
Looking back on my life, I really like the words of poetry and prose. Although I have not become famous, my heart is satisfied.
But like climbing high and looking far away, saying goodbye to people returning by the water, the windy spring morning, the moonlit autumn night, the early geese, the first call of the oriole, the blossoming and falling leaves, such scenery is so emotional in my heart when it appears before my eyes, and I often can't control myself.
In previous lives, Jia Yi, Fu Yi, Cui Si, Ma Rong, Handan Chun, Miao Xi, Lu Cui, etc. all became famous because of their articles, so I have repeatedly praised them: The scenery is beautiful today, can you write poems with rich literary talent? After the poem was written, the emperor's decree came again: He can be called a talented man. After I left the table, I said to people: The favor of being praised cannot be obtained by hope.
How does 逭 compare with Maiyi?
I'm afraid he can't be my equal.
Whenever I make something, I seldom put in the effort to conceive it. I have to let the inspiration come to me without trying too hard to brew it.
The only poem he has written since he was young is the "Hongxu", which has many genres and various writing styles. It is highly praised by those who like it, so his reputation can easily spread far and wide.
Zixian's works include 100 volumes of Houmo Shu, 60 volumes of Qi Shu, 5 volumes of Ordinary Northern Expedition, 30 volumes of Guijian Biography, and 20 volumes of collected works.
The second sons, Xiao Xu and Xiao Kai, became famous at a young age.
Xiao Xu, during the Taiqing period, served as an official in the prince's family, became a concubine, and was in charge of records.
When Hou Jing rebelled, he died in the city.
Xiao Kai, who was born in the country at the beginning, had the best performance in strategy, and was recommended as a scholar by Zhou Xiang.
He started out as a secretary, moved to the prince's office, and became the royal registrar, the prince's horse washer, and resigned after his father's death.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
服阕，复除太子洗马，迁中舍人，并掌管记。
累迁宣城王文学，中书郎，太子家令，又掌管记。
恺才学誉望，时论以方其父，太宗在东宫，早引接之。
时中庶子谢嘏出守建安，于宣猷堂宴饯，并召时才赋诗，同用十五剧韵，恺诗先就，其辞又美。
太宗与湘东王令曰： 王筠本自旧手，后进有萧恺可称，信为才子。
先是时太学博士顾野王奉令撰《玉篇》，太宗嫌其书详略未当，以恺博学，于文字尤善，使更与学士删改。
迁中庶子，未拜，徙为吏部郎。
太清二年，迁御史中丞。
顷之，侯景寇乱，恺于城内迁侍中，寻卒官，时年四十四。
文集并亡逸。
子云字景乔，子恪第九弟也。
年十二，齐建武四年，封新浦县侯，自制拜章，便有文采。
天监初，降爵为子。
既长勤学，以晋代竟无全书，弱冠便留心撰著，至年二十六，书成，表奏之，诏付秘阁。
子云性沈静，不乐仕进。
年三十，方起家为秘书郎。
迁太子舍人，撰《东宫新记》，奏之，敕赐束帛。
累迁北中郎外兵参军，晋安王文学，司徒主簿，丹阳尹丞。
时湘东王为京尹，深相赏好，如布衣之交。
迁北中郎庐陵王谘议参军，兼尚书左丞。
大通元年，除黄门郎，俄迁轻车将军，兼司徒左长史。
二年，入为吏部。
三年，迁长兼侍中。
中大通元年，转太府卿。
三年，出为贞威将军、临川内史。
在郡以和理称，民吏悦之。
还除散骑常侍，俄复为侍中。
大同二年，迁员外散骑常侍、国子祭酒，领南徐州大中正。
顷之，复为侍中，祭酒、中正如故。
translation: 
After the period of mourning was over, the mourning period was over and he was given the title of Prince Washing Horse. He was moved to the position of Zhongsheren and was in charge of records.
Lei Jing was promoted to the position of King Xuancheng's Wenxue, Zhongshu Lang, Prince's family magistrate, and in charge of records.
Xiao Kai's talent and reputation were considered to be equal to those of his father. When Taizong was in the East Palace, he had already summoned him to receive him.
At that time, the concubine Xie Gu went out to guard Jian'an and held a farewell banquet in Xuanyou Hall. He summoned the talented scholars at that time to compose poems, using the same fifteen dangerous rhymes. Xiao Kai wrote the poem first, and the poem's diction was beautiful.
Taizong Yu Wang Ling of eastern Hunan said: Wang Jun is a veteran in writing articles. His descendants have Xiao Kai to praise him. He is indeed a talented man.
Previously, Gu Yewang, a doctor of Taixue, was ordered to write the "Yupian". Emperor Taizong thought it was inappropriate for him to write a detailed book. Because Xiao Kai was knowledgeable and could write better words, he asked him and his bachelor to delete it.
He was moved to the post of concubine, but before he was appointed, he was moved to the post of official official.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng.
Soon after, Hou Jing rebelled, and Xiao Kai moved to the city to serve as a minister. Soon after, he died in his official position at the age of forty-four.
The anthologies have all disappeared.
Ziyun, whose courtesy name was Jingqiao, was Zike's ninth younger brother.
When he was twelve years old, in the fourth year of Jianwu in the Qi Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xinpu County. He wrote memorials of respect and acceptance by himself, which showed his literary talent.
In the early years of Tianjian, his title was reduced to viscount.
He grew up and was diligent in studying. Since there was no complete book recording history in the Jin Dynasty, he started writing books at the age of twenty.
Ziyun had a quiet temperament and was unwilling to become an official.
When he was thirty years old, he was recruited from his family as a secretary.
He was moved to the position of Prince Sheren, compiled "Xin Ji of Shu Gong" and presented it to him, and ordered him to be rewarded with silk silk.
Lei Jing was promoted to the post of Beizhong Lang, a foreign soldier, and joined the army. He was the king of Jin'an in literature, the chief secretary of Situ, and the Yin Cheng of Danyang.
At that time, King Shu of Xiang was appointed as Jingyin, and he deeply appreciated and loved him. The two were like common acquaintances.
He was moved to the position of Prince of Luling, Beizhong Lang, to consult with the army, and concurrently served as Minister Zuo Cheng.
In the first year of Datong, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang, and soon he was promoted to General Qingche and concurrently Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the second year, he was appointed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
Three years later, he was moved to the position of chief and servant.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was transferred to the post of Taifuqing.
Three years later, he served as General Zhenwei and Internal History of Linchuan.
In the county, he was praised for his harmonious management of affairs, and all the officials liked him.
He returned to the capital and was appointed as a regular servant of casual cavalry, and soon he was appointed as a servant again.
In the second year of Datong, he moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and a minister of state, and led the Dazhongzheng of Xuzhou in the south.
Immediately he was appointed as a waiter again, and his duties as a minister and official remained as before.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
梁初，郊庙未革牲牷，乐辞皆沈约撰，至是承用，子云始建言宜改。
启曰： 伏惟圣敬率由，尊严郊庙，得西邻之心，知周、孔之迹，载革牢俎，德通神明，黍稷苹藻，竭诚严配，经国制度，方悬日月，垂训百王，于是乎在。
臣比兼职斋官，见伶人所歌，犹用未革牲前曲。
圜丘视燎，尚言 式备牲牷 ；北郊《諴雅》，亦奏 牲云孔备 ；清庙登歌，而称 我牲以洁 ；三朝食举，犹咏 硃尾碧鳞 。声被鼓钟，未符盛制。
臣职司儒训，意以为疑，未审应改定乐辞以不？
敕答曰： 此是主者守株，宜急改也。
仍使子云撰定。
敕曰： 郊庙歌辞，应须典诰大语，不得杂用子史文章浅言；而沈约所撰，亦多舛谬。
子云答敕曰： 殷荐朝飨，乐以雅名，理应正采《五经》，圣人成教。
而汉来此制，不全用经典；约之所撰，弥复浅杂。
臣前所易约十曲，惟知牲牷既革，宜改歌辞，而犹承例，不嫌流俗乖体。
既奉令旨，始得发蒙。
臣夙本庸滞，昭然忽朗，谨依成旨，悉改约制。
惟用《五经》为本，其次《尔雅》、《周易》、《尚书》、《大戴礼》，即是经诰之流，愚意亦取兼用。
臣又寻唐、虞诸书，殷《颂》周《雅》，称美是一，而复各述时事。
大梁革服，偃武修文，制礼作乐，义高三正；而约撰歌辞，惟浸称圣德之美，了不序皇朝制作事。
《雅》、《颂》前例，于体为违。
伏以圣旨所定《乐论》，钟律纬绪，文思深微，命世一出，方悬日月，不刊之典，礼乐之教，致治所成。
谨一二采缀，各随事显义，以明制作之美。
覃思累日，今始克就，谨以上呈。
敕并施用。
translation: 
In the early years of the Liang Dynasty, all sacrifices to temples and temples in the suburbs were made with solid-colored whole animals without the fur removed. The music and lyrics for the sacrifices were all written by Shen Yue and are still in use today. Ziyun was the first to suggest the revision of the music and lyrics.
He started by saying: The Holy Lord respects the customs, and the sacrifices in the suburban temples are solemn and solemn, which is very popular among the people in the western neighboring countries. It can be compared with the deeds of Zhou Gong and Confucius. During the sacrifice, the processed and hairless animal skins are placed in the altar to communicate with the gods.
I have been working part-time as a Zhaiguan recently, and when I heard the songs sung by musicians during sacrifices, they were still old songs for sacrificial animals whose furs had not been removed.
The Shiliao official who worshiped the heaven in the circle hill also said "Shi prepares the animal bolt"; the northern suburbs performed "Jie Ya" to worship the heaven, and also sang "The sacrifice of the jade hole prepares"; the ancestral temple worshiped and sang, and said "I sacrifice to clean"; the food and celebration music played in the three dynasties still chanted "Red tail and green scales", the singing was accompanied by drums and bells, and the dispatch was not in line with the grand system.
The minister, who is in charge of Confucianism, thinks that singing this way is suspicious and is not sure whether the music should be changed?
The imperial edict said: This is because the supervisor sticks to narrow experience and does not know how to adapt and make emergency corrections.
Then he asked Ziyun to write some music poems.
The imperial edict said: The lyrics used for sacrificial rituals in suburban temples should be the elegant and ancient words in the imperial edicts, and should not be mixed with the simple words in the history books; and there are many errors in what Shen Yue wrote.
Ziyun replied to the edict: "To play grand music and songs to worship the ancestral temple of heaven and earth, and to use elegant names for music, we should adopt them from the Five Classics. The sage has become a religion."
However, the music poems compiled since the Han Dynasty are not all based on classics; those compiled by Shen Yue are even more crude and messy.
The minister changed the ten songs composed by Shen Yue, but he only knew that the animal pegs used for sacrifice had been replaced by leather, so the lyrics should be changed and the lyrics should still be continued, not avoiding the customs and deviating from the actual situation.
After obeying the order, I was able to broaden my horizons.
I have always been mediocre and stubborn, but now I suddenly understand. I respectfully follow Cheng's decree and completely correct Shen Yue's organization.
Only the Five Classics are used as the basis, followed by Erya, Zhouyi, Shangshu, and Dadaili. This is a category of classics and imperial edicts, and can also be used in foolish ways.
I also explored the books written by Yao and Shun in the Tang Dynasty, including "Song" of Yin Dynasty and "Ya" of Zhou Dynasty. They were mainly praising, but each described current events.
Daliang changed dynasties and the world obeyed, Yan Wu cultivated literature, made rituals and music, and promoted the Xia, Yin, and Zhou dynasties. However, the lyrics written by Shen Yue were only immersed in praising the beauty of holy virtues and did not describe the creation of the dynasty.
"Ya" and "Song" are precedents, and Shen Yue's arrangement is inconsistent with the style.
According to the music theory, rules and threads prescribed by the imperial edict, as soon as a person with profound and subtle literary thoughts and the ability to govern the world appears, it is like the sun and moon hanging in the sky, indelible classics, and the education of ritual and music was made in the peaceful and prosperous times.
I would like to collect them one by one and show their meaning according to the circumstances to show the appropriateness of the production.
I have thought deeply about it for many days, and now I have completed it and respectfully submit it.
Used together with the edict.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
子云善草隶书，为世楷法。自云善效钟元常、王逸少而微变字体。
答敕云： 臣昔不能拔赏，随世所贵，规摹子敬，多历年所。
年二十六，著《晋史》，至《二王列传》，欲作论语草隶法，言不尽意，遂不能成，略指论飞白一势而已。
十许年来，始见敕旨《论书》一卷，商略笔势，洞澈字体；又以逸少之不及元常，犹子敬之不及逸少。
自此研思，方悟隶式，始变子敬，全范元常。
逮尔以来，自觉功进。
其书迹雅为高祖所重，尝论子云书曰： 笔力劲骏，心手相应，巧逾杜度，美过崔实，当与元常并驱争先。
其见赏如此。
七年，出为仁威将军、东阳太守。
中大同元年，还拜宗正卿。
太清元年，复为侍中、国子祭酒，领南徐州大中正。
二年，侯景寇逼，子云逃民间。
三年三月，宫城失守，东奔晋陵，馁卒于显灵寺僧房，年六十三。
所著《晋书》一百一十卷，《东宫新记》二十卷。
第二子特，字世达。
早知名，亦善草隶。
高祖尝谓子云曰： 子敬之书，不及逸少。
近见特迹，遂逼于卿。
历官著作佐郎，太子舍人，宣惠主簿，中军记室。
出为海盐令，坐事免。
年二十五，先子云卒。
子晖字景光，子云弟也。
少涉书史，亦有文才。
起家员外散骑侍郎，迁南中郎记室。
出为临安令。
性恬静，寡嗜好，尝预重云殿听制讲《三慧经》，退为《讲赋》奏之，甚见称赏。
迁安西武陵王谘议，带新繁令，随府转仪同从事、骠骑长史，卒。
translation: 
Ziyun was good at writing cursive official script and was regarded as a model by the world. He said that he was good at imitating Zhong Yao and Wang Xizhi and slightly changing his handwriting.
In reply to the edict: I used to have no ability to appreciate, so I decided it was precious according to the opinions of the world, so I imitated Wang Xianzhi's calligraphy for many years.
When he was twenty-six years old, he compiled the "Book of Jin" and wrote "The Biography of Two Kings". He wanted to write a comment on the writing style of cursive script, but it was not satisfactory and he failed to write it. He only briefly commented on Feibai style writing style.
It has been more than ten years since I first saw the imperial edict "On Calligraphy", a volume in which I commented on the calligraphy style and thoroughly understood the shape of the characters; I also thought that Wang Xizhi was inferior to Zhong Yao, just like Wang Xianzhi was inferior to Wang Xizhi.
After thinking about it, I realized that the rules of official script were first changed by Wang Xianzhi, and Zhong Yao was the one who standardized everything.
Since then, I feel that my writing skills have improved.
His calligraphy was highly praised by Emperor Gaozu. He once commented on Ziyun's calligraphy: "The pen is strong and straight, the heart and hand are in harmony, the skill is beyond Du Du, and the physical beauty is better than Cui Wei. He should compete with Zhong Yao."
He was appreciated like this.
In the seventh year, he served as General Renwei and Grand Administrator of Shuyang.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he returned to the capital and was awarded Zong Zhengqing.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was again appointed as Shizhong and Guozi Jijiu, and led the Dazhongzheng of Xuzhou in the south.
In the second year, Hou Jing invaded the palace city, and Ziyun fled to the people.
In March of the third year, the palace city was lost. He fled eastward to Jinling and died of starvation in the monk's room of Xianling Temple. He was sixty-three years old.
His works include 110 volumes of "Book of Jin" and 20 volumes of "New Records of the East Palace".
The second son Xiaote was named Shida.
He became famous very early and was good at cursive calligraphy.
Emperor Gaozu once said to Xiao Te: Zijing's calligraphy is not as good as Wang Baozhi's.
Seeing Xiao Yi's handwriting recently made Qing feel threatened.
His official titles include Zuolang, Prince Sheren, Xuanhui, and the Zhongjun Records Office.
He took up the post of Haiyan Order, but was dismissed for some reasons.
At the age of twenty-five, he died in front of Wang Yun.
Zihui, whose courtesy name is Jingguang, is Ziyun's younger brother.
When he was young, he dabbled in book history and was also talented in literature.
He started as a member of the imperial family and served as a minister of Sanqi, and moved to the office of Nanzhonglang.
Served as Lin'an Order.
He has a quiet temperament and few hobbies. He once participated in the Chongyun Hall to listen to the "Three Wisdom Sutra" lectures, and came back to write "Lectures on Fu" as a memorial, which was highly praised.
He moved to Anxi to serve as a consultant to King Wuling of Anxi Province, and brought in new orders. He was transferred to Yitong to serve as a member of the imperial family, and to serve as the chief historian of Hussar. He died.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：昔魏藉兵威而革汉运，晋因宰辅乃移魏历，异乎古之禅授，以德相传，故抑前代宗枝，用绝民望。
然刘晔、曹志，犹显于朝；及宋遂为废姓。
而齐代，宋之戚属，一皆歼焉。
其祚不长，抑亦由此。
有梁革命，弗取前规，故子恪兄弟及群从，并随才任职，通贵满朝，不失于旧，岂惟魏幽晋显而已哉。
君子以是知高祖之弘量，度越前代矣。
translation: 
Chen Libu Shangshu Yao Chari: In the past, Aiqiao changed the fate of Lianqu by relying on his military power, and changed the calendar of the Wei Dynasty by relying on the Prime Minister. This is different from the ancient Zen teachings, which were passed down by virtue, so they suppressed the clans of the previous generation and cut off the popularity of the people.
However, Liu Ye and Cao Zhi were still prominent in the new dynasty; in the end, their surnames became obsolete in Saichi.
The Qi Dynasty was a relative of the Song Dynasty, but it wiped out all the Song Dynasty clans.
Its short-term national fortune may be caused by this reason.
The revolution of the Liang Dynasty did not adopt the practices of the previous dynasty, so the Zike brothers and their followers were given positions according to their talents. They were all nobles in the dynasty and did not abandon them because they were old people. Is it just that the Wei Dynasty was dim and the Jin Dynasty was obvious.
Therefore, a gentleman knows that the great ancestor is magnanimous and his magnanimity surpasses that of previous generations.


