Chunk 0: 
original: 
谢举，字言扬，中书令览之弟也。
幼好学，能清言，与览齐名。
举年十四，尝赠沈约五言诗，为约称赏。
世人为之语曰： 王有养、炬，谢有览、举。
养、炬，王筠、王泰小字也。
起家秘书郎，迁太子舍人，轻车功曹史，秘书丞，司空从事中郎，太子庶子，家令，掌东宫管记，深为昭明太子赏接。
秘书监任昉出为新安郡，别举诗云： 讵念耋嗟人，方深老夫托。
其属意如此。
尝侍宴华林园，高祖访举于览，览对曰： 识艺过臣甚远，惟饮酒不及于臣。
高祖大悦。
转太子中庶子，犹掌管记。
天监十一年，迁侍中。
十四年，出为宁远将军、豫章内史，为政和理，甚得民心。
十八年，复入为侍中，领步兵校尉。
普通元年，出为贞毅将军、太尉临川王长史。
translation: 
Xie Ju, whose courtesy name is Yan Yang, is the younger brother of Xie Lan, who was ordered by Zhongshu Ling.
He was eager to learn when he was young, could talk about mystical principles, and was as famous as Xie Li.
When Xie Gao was fourteen years old, he once presented a selected five-character poem, which was praised by the composer.
People in the world therefore say: The person named Wang has Yang and Ju, and the person named Xie has Lan and Ju.
Yang and Ju are the nicknames of Wang Yun and Wang Tai.
Xie Ju first served as Secretary Lang, and later moved to Prince Sheren. He was Cao Shi of Qingchao Gong, Secretary Cheng, Sikong Zhonglang, Prince's concubine, family order, and in charge of the management of the East Palace. He was deeply appreciated by Prince Zhaoming.
When Ren Fang, the secretary supervisor, took office as the prefect of Xin'an County, he bid farewell to Xie Ju with a poem and said: If you miss the elderly, remember my sustenance deeply.
He was valued like this.
Once at a banquet, Emperor Gaozu asked Xie Ju for advice. Xie Ju replied: "My knowledge and skills are far superior to those of my ministers, but I am not as good as my ministers in drinking."
Emperor Gaozu was very happy.
He was transferred to the position of concubine among the crown princes and was still in charge of the records.
In the eleventh year of Tianjian, he moved to serve in the middle school.
In the fourteenth year, he served as General Ningyuan and Internal History of Yuzhang. His administration was tolerant and gentle, which won the hearts of the people.
In the 18th year, he entered the imperial court and served as a servant and an infantry captain.
In the first year of Pongyong, he served as General Zhenyi and Taiwei Wang Changshi of Linchuan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
四年，入为左民尚书。
其年迁掌吏部，寻以公事免。
五年，起为太子中庶子，领右军将军。
六年，复为左民尚书，领步兵校尉。
俄徙为吏部尚书，寻加侍中。
出为仁威将军、晋陵太守。
在郡清静，百姓化其德，境内肃然。
罢郡还，吏民诣阙请立碑，诏许之。
大通二年，入为侍中、五兵尚书，未拜，迁掌吏部，侍中如故。
举祖庄，宋世再典选，至举又三为此职，前代未有也。
举少博涉多通，尤长玄理及释氏义。
为晋陵郡时，常与义僧递讲经论，征士何胤自虎丘山赴之。
其盛如此。
先是，北渡人卢广有儒术，为国子博士，于学发讲，仆射徐勉以下毕至。
translation: 
Four years later, he entered the court and was appointed Minister of Zuo Min.
In the same year, he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, but was soon dismissed due to official business.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as the prince's concubine and led the right army general.
In the sixth year, he was again appointed Minister of Zuo Min and led the infantry school captain.
Soon he was moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and then he was added to the post of Shizhong.
He served as General Renwei and Governor of Jinling.
In the county government, the people were influenced by their virtues and their policies, and the territory was awe-inspiring.
After the dismissed governor returned to the capital, officials and people went to the court to request that a monument be erected for him, and Xia Shao agreed.
In the second year of Taibi's reign, he was appointed as Shizhong and Shangshu of the Five Arms. Before taking office, he was moved to the position of Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel, and Shizhong remained as before.
Xie Ju's grandfather, Xie Zhuang, was in charge of the election of officials twice in Fengfa, and Xie Ju held this position three times. This was not done in previous generations.
Xie Ju read a lot of books when he was young and was able to understand them all. He was especially good at Lao, Zhuang, Xuanli and Buddhist philosophy.
When he was appointed as the prefect of Jinling County, monk Chang Yuyi took turns explaining Buddhist scriptures, and the conscript He Yin came from Huqiu Mountain to listen to the lectures.
Such a grand occasion.
Before that, Lu Guang, who came from across the Yangtze River, was proficient in Confucianism and was a doctor of the Imperial Academy. When he explained the Confucian classics, everyone under Xu Mian went to listen.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
举造坐，屡折广，辞理通迈。广深叹服，仍以所执麈尾荐之，以况重席焉。
四年，加侍中。
五年，迁尚书右仆射，侍中如故。
大同三年，以疾陈解，徙为右光禄大夫，给亲信二十人。
其年，出为云麾将军、吴郡太守。
先是，何敬容居郡有美绩，世称为何吴郡。及举为政，声迹略相比。
六年，入为侍中、中书监，未拜，迁太子詹事、翊左将军，侍中如故。
举父綍，齐世终此官，累表乞改授，敕不许，久之方就职。
九年，迁尚书仆射，侍中、将军如故。
举虽居端揆，未尝肯预时务，多因疾陈解。敕辄赐假，并手敕处方，加给上药。
其恩遇如此。
其年，以本官参掌选事。
太清二年，迁尚书令，侍中、将军如故。
translation: 
Xie Ju sat on the floor and pointed out Lu Guang's mistakes many times, and his rhetoric was beyond the ordinary. Lu Guang was so impressed that he gave him the pawn tail he held and gave him a precious seat.
In four years, he was appointed as a minister.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu, and he continued to serve as the minister.
In the third year of Datong, Chen resigned due to illness and was transferred to Dr. Youguanglu, giving 20 close followers.
That year, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
Previously, He Jinrong served as the county governor and performed in politics, and was known as "He Wujun". He was in power with Xie Ju, and his reputation was roughly the same.
In the sixth year, he was appointed as Shizhong and Zhongshu Supervisor. Before taking office, he was moved to Prince Zhan Shi and General Yizuo, and Shizhong remained as usual.
Xie Ju's father, Xie Man, ended up in this position in the Qi Dynasty. Xie Ju went to the court many times to beg for a new appointment, but was not allowed to do so. It took a long time before he could take up the post.
In the ninth year, he was moved to the post of Minister Pushe, but Shishen and General remained as before.
Although Xie Ju held the position of prime minister, he was unwilling to participate in current affairs and requested to be dismissed many times due to illness. The emperor granted him leave, wrote prescriptions in his own hand, and gave the emperor medicine.
He was so favored by the emperor.
In the year of dispatch, I used my official position to participate in the election.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he was moved to the post of Shangshu Ling, but the ministers and generals remained as before.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是岁，侯景寇京师，举卒于围内。
诏赠侍中、中卫将军、开府仪同三司，侍中、尚书令如故。
文集乱中并亡逸。
二子禧，嘏，并少知名。
嘏，太清中，历太子中庶子，出为建安太守。
何敬容，字国礼，庐江人也。
祖攸之，宋太常卿；父昌珝，齐吏部尚书；并有名前代。
敬容以名家子，弱冠选尚齐武帝女长城公主，拜驸马都尉。
天监初，为秘书郎，历太子舍人，尚书殿中郎，太子洗马，中书舍人，秘书丞，迁扬州治中。
出为建安内史，清公有美绩，民吏称之。
还除黄门郎，累迁太子中庶子，散骑常侍，侍中，司徒左长史。
普通二年，复为侍中，领羽林监，俄又领本州大中正。
顷之，守吏部尚书，铨序明审，号为称职。
四年，出为招远将军、吴郡太守，为政勤恤民隐，辨讼如神，视事四年，治为天下第一。
translation: 
This year, Hou Jing invaded the capital, and Xie Ju died in the besieged city.
Shao Ling posthumously presented Shizhong, Zhongwei General, and Kaifu Yitong to the three divisions, while Shizhong and Shangshu Ling remained as before.
The collected works were all lost during the war.
The two sons, Xie Xi and Xie Gu, both became famous at a young age.
Xie Gu, during the Taiqing period, served successively as the concubine among the crown princes and as the prefect who built the house.
He Jinrong, courtesy name Guoli, was born in Lujiang.
His grandfather Youzhi served as Taichang Qing of the Song Dynasty; his father Chang Jue served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel of the Qi Dynasty: both were well-known at that time.
He Jinrong came from a well-known family, and when he came of age, he married Princess Changcheng, the daughter of Emperor Wu of Shang Qi, and was awarded the title of Prince Consort.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as Secretary Lang, and successively served as Prince Sheren, Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace, Prince Xima, Zhongshu Sheren, Secretary Cheng, and moved to Yangzhou to rule the country.
He served as the internal history of Jian'an. He was honest, fair and effective in politics, and the people all praised him.
After returning to the capital, he was granted the title of Huang Menlang, and was later moved to the crown prince's concubine.
In the second year of ordinary life, he was appointed as a servant again, led by Yulin Supervisor, and soon became the Grand Chief of Honshu.
Immediately, he acted as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, and selected officials carefully and strictly, and was known as competent.
In four years, he served as General Zhaoyuan and County Governor. He was able to understand the people's sentiments and resolve cases like a god. After four years in office, his political performance ranked first in the world.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
吏民诣阙请树碑，诏许之。
大通二年，征为中书令，未拜，复为吏部尚书，领右军将军，俄加侍中。
中大通元年，改太子中庶子。
敬容身长八尺，白皙美须眉。
性矜庄，衣冠尤事鲜丽，每公庭就列，容止出人。
三年，迁尚书右仆射，参掌选事，侍中如故。
时仆射徐勉参掌机密，以疾陈解，因举敬容自代，故有此授焉。
五年，迁左仆射，加宣惠将军，置佐史，侍中、参掌如故。
大同三年正月，硃雀门灾，高祖谓群臣曰： 此门制卑狭，我始欲构，遂遭天火。
并相顾未有答。
敬容独曰： 此所谓陛下 先天而天不违 。 时以为名对。
俄迁中权将军、丹阳尹，侍中、参掌、佐史如故。
五年，入为尚书令，侍中、将军、参掌、佐史如故。
translation: 
Officials and people went to the court to request that a monument be built for him, and they were allowed to do so.
In the second year of Zuotong's reign, he entered the court and served as the Secretary of the Central Committee. Before taking office, he still served as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, leading the general of the right army, and soon he was appointed as the Minister of Internal Affairs.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine.
He Jingrong is eight feet tall, with fair complexion and beautiful eyebrows.
He is solemn and dignified, and his clothes are particularly beautiful. Whenever he is in the court, his appearance must be top-notch.
In the third year, he was moved to the right servant of Shangshu, and participated in the election of ministers. However, he continued to serve as the minister.
At that time, the servant Xu Mian was in charge of secrets and asked to resign due to illness, so he recommended Jingrong as his successor, so Jingrong was given this position.
In the fifth year, he moved to Zuopushe and was appointed General Xuanhui. He was appointed as an assistant historian, and his ministers and ministers remained as usual.
In the first month of the third year of Datong, the Zhuque Gate caught fire. Gao Dan said to the ministers: "This gate is too small. I was trying to rebuild it, but it was hit by fire from heaven."
The ministers looked at each other without answering.
He Jinrong said: This so-called majesty precedes heaven and does not violate it. People at the time thought this was right.
Soon he was moved to the post of General Zhongquan and Danyang Yin, and his duties as Shizhong, Shenzhang and Assistant Shi remained as before.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as Shangshu Ling, with the titles of Shizhong, General, Shenzhang and Assistant Shi remaining as before.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
敬容久处台阁，详悉旧事，且聪明识治，勤于簿领，诘朝理事，日旰不休。
自晋、宋以来，宰相皆文义自逸，敬容独勤庶务，为世所嗤鄙。
时萧琛子巡者，颇有轻薄才，因制卦名离合等诗以嘲之，敬容处之如初，亦不屑也。
十一年，坐妾弟费慧明为导仓丞，夜盗官米，为禁司所执，送领军府。
时河东王誉为领军将军，敬容以书解慧明，誉即封书以奏。
高祖大怒，付南司推劾。御史中丞张绾奏敬容挟私罔上，合弃市刑，诏特免职。
初，天监中，有沙门释宝志者，尝遇敬容，谓曰： 君后必贵，然终是何败何耳 。
及敬容为宰相，谓何姓当为其祸，故抑没宗族，无仕进者，至是竟为河东所败。
中大同元年三月，高祖幸同泰寺讲《金字三慧经》，敬容请预听，敕许之。
又有敕听朔望问讯。
寻起为金紫光禄大夫，未拜，又加侍中。
敬容旧时宾客门生喧哗如昔，冀其复用。
会稽谢郁致书戒之曰： 草莱之人，闻诸道路，君侯已得瞻望朝夕，出入禁门，醉尉将不敢呵，灰然不无其渐，甚休，甚休！
translation: 
He Jingrong had been in the court for a long time and was familiar with past events. He was also smart and capable. He was familiar with government affairs and was diligent in writing. He worked early in the morning and worked day and night.
Since the Jin and Song Dynasties, all prime ministers have entertained themselves with literary words. Only Jingrong is diligent in government affairs and is despised by the world.
At that time, Xiao Xun, Xiao Chen's son. He was very frivolous, so he composed famous hexagram poems and acrostic poems to ridicule him. He respected Cha as if nothing had happened and disdained to care about him.
In the eleventh year, because his concubine Fei Huiming was appointed as the director of Cangcheng, he was convicted of stealing official rice at night and was arrested by the Imperial Bureau and sent to the leading army mansion.
At that time, King Yu of Hedong was appointed as the leading general. Jingrong wrote a letter to excuse Huiming, and Yu was about to submit the letter.
Emperor Gaozu was furious and submitted it to the imperial censor for review. Zhang Wan, the censor's chief minister, reported that Jingrong had deceived the emperor for personal gain and should be put in public display on the street. Shao Ling was dismissed from office and dismissed.
At the beginning, during the Tianjian period, the monk Shi Shizhi once met Jingrong and said to him: The queen will be rich and powerful, but in the end it will be nothing more than a loss.
When Jingrong was appointed prime minister, he thought that people named He were harming him, so he suppressed his fellow clansmen and prevented them from serving as officials. Only then did he know that he was defeated by the King of Hedong.
In March of the first year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu went to Tongtai Temple to lecture on the "Three Wisdoms Sutra with Golden Characters". Jingrong asked to attend the lecture and was allowed to do so.
He was also allowed to greet the emperor on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month.
Soon he was promoted to the post of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu. Before taking office, he was appointed as a servant.
Jing Rong's former guest disciple is as proud as ever, hoping that he will be reused again.
Xie Yu from Kuaiji wrote a letter warning: I, a man from the grassland, have heard that you can pay homage to the monarch day and night when he goes in and out of the forbidden gate. The drunk captain dare not scold him. The resurgence of death always has its origins. It should really stop, it should really stop!


Chunk 6: 
original: 
敢贺于前，又将吊也。
昔流言裁作，公旦东奔；燕书始来，子孟不入。
夫圣贤被虚过以自斥，未有婴时衅而求亲者也。
且曝鳃之鳞，不念杯杓之水；云霄之翼，岂顾笼樊之粮。
何者？
所托已盛也。
昔君侯纳言加首，鸣玉在腰，回豊貂以步文昌，耸高蝉而趋武帐，可谓盛矣。
不以此时荐才拔士，少报圣主之恩；今卒如爰丝之说，受责见过，方复欲更窥朝廷，觖望万分，窃不为左右取也。
昔窦婴、杨恽亦得罪明时，不能谢绝宾客，犹交党援，卒无后福，终益前祸。
仆之所吊，实在于斯。
人人所以颇犹有踵君侯之门者，未必皆感惠怀仁，有灌夫、任安之义，乃戒翟公之大署，冀君侯之复用也。
夫在思过之日，而挟复用之意，未可为智者说矣。
translation: 
So I would like to congratulate you first, and then I will miss you.
In the past, rumors spread that Zhou Gongdan fled to the east; as soon as the letter from Yan State arrived, Zimeng stopped entering the country.
When a sage is falsely accused, he should first blame himself and not seek help because he is hated by the people of his time.
Moreover, the fish with its gills exposed in the dragon's gate will not miss the water in the cup; the bird flying in the sky will not miss the food in the birdcage.
Why?
Because its support has become grand.
In the past, you wore a Nayan frame scarf on your head, Mingyu around your waist, walked into the Wenchang Department wearing a precious sable fur coat, and walked straight to the military tent wearing a high hat decorated with cicada patterns. You were so majestic.
Don't recommend talented people at this time to repay the kindness of the Holy Lord. Now, just like Yuan Ang said, you are being blamed for your mistakes, but you still beg the court and complain about the court. I don't think you should adopt this approach.
In the past, Baoying and Yang Geng offended the Ming Dynasty. They could not refuse the guests and made friends. In the end, they did not gain blessings, but only increased the disaster.
This is what worries me about you.
The reason why people still follow you is not necessarily because they are grateful for your kindness, as in the sentiments of Guan Fu and Ren An, but because of the sentiments expressed by Zhai Gong in writing on the door, expressing his feelings about the harsh conditions of the world, hoping that you would be reused again.
Having the thought of being reused after thinking about past mistakes cannot be the opinion of a wise man.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
君侯宜杜门念失，无有所通，筑茅茨于钟阜，聊优游以卒岁，见可怜之意，著待终之情。复仲尼能改之言，惟子贡更也之譬，少戢言于众口，微自救于竹帛，所谓 失之东隅，收之桑榆 。
如此，令明主闻知，尚有冀也。
仆东皋鄙人，入穴幸无衔窭，耻天下之士不为执事道之，故披肝胆，示情素，君侯岂能鉴焉。
太清元年，迁太子詹事，侍中如故。
二年，侯景袭京师，敬容自府移家台内。
初，景于涡阳退败，未得审实，传者乃云其将暴显反，景身与众并没，朝廷以为忧。
敬容寻见东宫，太宗谓曰： 淮北始更有信，侯景定得身免，不如所传。
敬容对曰： 得景遂死，深是朝廷之福。
太宗失色，问其故。
敬容曰： 景翻覆叛臣，终当乱国。
是年，太宗频于玄圃自讲《老》、《庄》二书，学士吴孜时寄詹事府，每日入听。
translation: 
You should shut yourself up and think about your mistakes, don't interact with others, build a hut in Zhongfu, live leisurely and contentedly, look down on your pitiful thoughts, express your feelings of waiting for the end, think twice about Confucius's words about correction, consider Zigong's metaphor about correction, let people stop talking bad about you, and save yourself in books and history.
in this way. Let the Lord know, there is still hope.
I am a man from the fields. Although I live in a cave, I am fortunate that I do not resent my poverty and simplicity. I am ashamed that the people in the world do not explain the truth to you. Therefore, I express my true feelings with all my heart and courage, and the princes should be able to understand clearly.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, he was moved to the position of Prince Zhan Shi, but his service remained as usual.
In the second year, Hou Jing attacked the capital, and Jingrong moved from his home to the official residence.
At the beginning, Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang, but the court did not receive any definite news. Rumors claimed that Hou Jing's generals had rebelled, and that Hou Jingji and everyone else were dead. The court was worried about this.
Jingrong was summoned by the prince soon, and Taizong said to him: There is news from Huaibei. Hou Jing will definitely be able to avoid death, unlike the rumors.
Jingrong replied: "If Hou Jing can die, it will be a blessing to the court."
Taizong became pale after hearing this and asked him the reason.
Jing Rong said: Hou Jing overthrew his rebellious ministers and would eventually bring chaos to the country.
During the reign of Emperor Taizong, he lectured on the two books "Lao" and "Zhuang" many times in Xuanpu. Bachelor Yu Jian lived in Zhan Shifu at that time and went to listen to the lectures every day.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
敬容谓孜曰： 昔晋代丧乱，颇由祖尚玄虚，胡贼殄覆中夏。
今东宫复袭此，殆非人事，其将为戎乎？
俄而侯景难作，其言有征也。
三年正月，敬容卒于围内，诏赠仁威将军，本官并如故。
何氏自晋司空充、宋司空尚之，世奉佛法，并建立塔寺；至敬容又舍宅东为伽蓝，趋势者因助财造构，敬容并不拒，故此寺堂宇校饰，颇为宏丽。时轻薄者因呼为 众造寺 焉。
及敬容免职出宅，止有常用器物及囊衣而已，竟无余财货，时亦以此称之。
子，秘书丞，早卒。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：魏正始及晋之中朝，时俗尚于玄虚，贵为放诞，尚书丞郎以上，簿领文案，不复经怀，皆成于令史。
逮乎江左，此道弥扇，惟卞壸以台阁之务，颇欲综理，阮孚谓之曰： 卿常无闲暇，不乃劳乎？
宋世王敬弘身居端右，未尝省牒，风流相尚，其流遂远。
translation: 
Qian Rong said to Xian Qi: The decline of Zhiqu in the past was due to advocating metaphysics, which led to the occupation of the Central Plains by the barbarians.
Today, the prince still advocates Gui and Lan, which may not be the right way. Are we going to have another war?
Soon there was a rebellion, and his words came true.
In the first month of the third year, Qianjiao died in the besieged capital. Shaoling posthumously awarded him to General Renwei, but his original official position remained the same.
Since Sikongchong of the Jin Dynasty and Sikongshang of the Song Dynasty, He family has believed in Buddhism for generations and built pagodas and temples. Zhi Jingrong abandoned his house to build a Buddhist temple in Shubu. Trendsetters donated money for him to build, and Jingrong did not refuse. Therefore, the temple halls were decorated very magnificently. At that time, the frivolous people called the Buddhist temple "Zhongzao Temple".
When Jingrong was dismissed from his post and left his house, he only had common utensils and clothes in his bag, but no extra possessions. People at that time praised him for this.
His son's name was Yong, he was appointed Secretary Cheng, and he died early.
Yao Chari, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: From the Zhengpan and Youzhi of the Wei Dynasty, Xuanxu was regarded as high, and birthdays were valued. Officials above Chenglang, the Minister, ignored the copywriting and left everything to the Lingshi.
When we arrived at Jiangzuo, the situation became even more popular. Only Bian Yi, the general of Tai Pavilion, wanted to take charge of the government affairs. Yifu said to him, "Isn't it very hard for you to be so busy?"
King Jinghong of the Song Dynasty was the governor of Shangshu Province, but he did not read official documents. He advocated romance and had a profound influence.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
望白署空，是称清贵；恪勤匪懈，终滞鄙俗。
小人道长，抑此之由。
呜呼！
伤风败俗，曾莫之悟。
永嘉不竞，戎马生郊，宜其然矣。何国礼之识治，见讥薄俗，惜哉！
translation: 
Officials who only sign documents and do not care about government affairs are called noble people; while those who are respectful, diligent and unswerving stay in vulgar positions for life.
In this way, those in power do not follow the rules and regulations, and those below cannot fulfill their duties. This may be the reason why the villain gains power.
Alas!
He is immoral but does not wake up.
The decline of the Western Jin Dynasty and frequent wars were inevitable. He Jingrong had a premonition, but was ridiculed, which was a pity.


