Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 0, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
经云： 夫孝，德之本也。
此生民之为大，有国之所先欤！
高祖创业开基，饬躬化俗，浇弊之风以革，孝治之术斯著。
每发丝纶，远加旌表。
而淳和比屋，罕要诡俗之誉，潜晦成风，俯列逾群之迹，彰于视听，盖无几焉。
今采缀以备遗逸云尔。
滕昙恭，豫章南昌人也。
年五岁，母杨氏患热，思食寒瓜，土俗所不产。昙恭历访不能得，衔悲哀切。
俄值一桑门问其故，昙恭具以告。
桑门曰： 我有两瓜，分一相遗。
昙恭拜谢，因捧瓜还，以荐其母。
举室惊异。
寻访桑门，莫知所在。
及父母卒，昙恭水浆不入口者旬日，感恸呕血，绝而复苏。
隆冬不著茧絮，蔬食终身。
每至忌日，思慕不自堪，昼夜哀恸。
其门外有冬生树二株，时忽有神光自树而起，俄见佛像及夹侍之仪，容光显著，自门而入。昙恭家人大小，咸共礼拜，久之乃灭，远近道俗咸传之。
太守王僧度引昙恭为功曹，固辞不就。
王俭时随僧度在郡，号为滕曾子。
天监元年，陆琏奉使巡行风俗，表言其状。昙恭有子三人，皆有行业。
时有徐普济者，长沙临湘人。
居丧未及葬，而邻家火起，延及其舍，普济号恸伏棺上，以身蔽火。
邻人往救之，焚炙已闷绝，累日方苏。
宣城宛陵有女子与母同床寝，母为猛虎所搏，女号叫拿虎，虎毛尽落，行十数里，虎乃弃之。女抱母还，犹有气，经时乃绝。
translation: 
The scriptures say: Filial piety is the foundation of virtue.
Filial piety is an important thing for the people, and it is the first thing that a king should do well!
Emperor Gaozu founded the emperor's career and practiced virtue to transform customs. The corrupt and superficial atmosphere was changed, and the rule of governing the country with filial piety was demonstrated.
Every time an edict is issued, more praise is given to those who obey filial piety.
Every family is kind and peaceful, but few people pursue the honor of deceiving the world. It has become a custom to hide one's own talents and not expose them, and everyone hides his achievements that surpass others.
Therefore, not much is seen and heard by people.
Now collect their deeds to complete the story of their disappearance. Teng Tanggong was born in Nanchang, Yuzhang.
When he was five years old, his mother, Yang, contracted a fever and wanted to eat cold melons, but they were not produced locally. Teng Tanggong searched everywhere but could not find them. He felt sad and in great pain.
Soon Teng Tangong met a monk. He was in pain and sorrow among the monks. Teng Tangong told the monk everything.
The monk said: I have two cold melons, and I will give one to you.
After Teng Tan respectfully thanked the monk, he took the melon home and presented it to his mother.
The whole family was very surprised.
Everyone was looking for the monk everywhere, but no one knew where the monk was.
After his parents died, Teng Tanggong did not eat or drink for about ten days. He cried so sadly that he vomited blood, fainted and then woke up.
Teng Tanggong did not wear cotton-padded clothes during the mid-winter season and only ate vegetables throughout his life.
Every time on the anniversary of the death of my parents, I can't bear the longing, and I cry heartbroken day and night.
There were two winter trees outside Teng Tangong's house. Suddenly a divine light appeared from the trees. Soon the image of the Buddha and the guards of honor on both sides appeared. Their appearance was clear. They walked into Teng Tangong's house from the gate. Everyone in the Teng family, big and small, bowed and worshiped the Buddha. It took a long time for the Buddha's image to disappear. Monks and people from far and near preached and performed things.
The prefect Wang Sengqian recommended Teng Tanggong to be a meritorious officer, but Teng Tanggong firmly refused to take up the post.
Wang Jian followed Wang Sengqian in the county at that time, and he called Teng Tanggong Teng Zengzi.
In the first year of Tianjian, Lu Lian was ordered to serve as an envoy to visit various places to understand the customs and conditions of the people. He reported Teng Tangong's filial piety and his response to the gods and Buddhas. Teng Tangong had three sons, all of whom were virtuous and accomplished.
At that time, there was also Xu Puji, a native of Linxiang, Changsha.
He was in mourning and the coffin had not yet been buried. A fire broke out in his neighbor's house and the fire spread to his house. Xu Puji howled and cried bitterly and leaned on the coffin, trying to cover the fire with his body.
Neighbors went to rescue him, but he was roasted until he passed out. It took many days for him to wake up.
There was a girl in Wanling, Xuancheng, who was sleeping in the same bed with her mother. Her mother was caught by a tiger. The girl screamed and grabbed the tiger, and all the tiger hairs were caught by her. After running for more than ten miles, the tiger dropped the girl's mother. The girl carried her mother home, and her mother was still alive. It took an hour before she died.
summary:
Filial piety as the foundation of virtue, emphasizing its importance for both the people and rulers. Emperor Gaozu promoted filial piety through edicts, transforming customs and encouraging virtuous behavior. The text then recounts the deeds of several individuals known for their exceptional filial piety. Teng Tanggong, from Nanchang, demonstrated filial piety at age five by seeking cold melons for his ill mother, which a monk miraculously provided. After his parents' deaths, he mourned excessively, refusing food and warm clothing. Divine signs, including a vision of Buddha, appeared at his home. He refused official positions and was praised as "Teng Zengzi." Xu Puji, from Linxiang, protected his mother's coffin from a fire, suffering severe burns. A girl from Wanling fought a tiger to save her mother, carrying her home before she died. Shen Chongsu, from Wuxing, mourned his mother with extreme grief, lying on her grave in all weather. Despite an imperial edict promoting him, he refused the position and died from grief at age thirty-nine.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
荀匠，字文师，颍阴人，晋太保勖九世孙也。
祖琼，年十五，复父仇于成都市，以孝闻。
宋元嘉末，渡淮赴武陵王义，为元凶追兵所杀，赠员外散骑侍郎。
父法超，齐中兴末为安复令，卒于官。
凶问至，匠号恸气绝，身体皆冷，至夜乃苏。
既而奔丧，每宿江渚，商旅皆不忍闻其哭声。
服未阕，兄斐起家为郁林太守，征俚贼，为流矢所中，死于阵。
丧还，匠迎于豫章，望舟投水，傍人赴救，仅而得全。
既至，家贫不得时葬。居父忧并兄服，历四年不出庐户。
自括发后，不复栉沐，发皆秃落。
哭无时，声尽则系之以泣，目眦皆烂，形体枯悴，皮骨裁连，虽家人不复识。
郡县以状言，高祖诏遣中书舍人为其除服，擢为豫章王国左常侍。
匠虽即吉，毁悴逾甚。
外祖孙谦诫之曰： 主上以孝治天下，汝行过古人，故发明诏，擢汝此职。
非唯君父之命难拒，故亦扬名后世，所显岂独汝身哉！
匠于是乃拜。
竟以毁卒于家，时年二十一。
庾黔娄，字子贞，新野人也。
父易，司徒主簿，征不至，有高名。
黔娄少好学，多讲诵《孝经》，未尝失色于人，南阳高士刘虬、宗测并叹异之。
起家本州主簿，迁平西行参军。
出为编令，治有异绩。
translation: 
Xunjiang, also known as Wenshi, was born in Yingyin. He was the ninth generation descendant of Xun Xu, the Taibao of Jin Dynasty.
Xun Jiang's grandfather, Xun Qiong, avenged his father in the Chengdu market when he was fifteen years old, and was therefore famous for his filial piety.
In the late years of the Song and Yuan Dynasties, Xunjiang crossed the river and rushed to King Wuling to join the rebel army. He was killed by the culprit's pursuers. The imperial court awarded him the posthumous title of Yuanwai Sanqi Shilang.
Xun Fachao, the father of Xunjiang, was appointed as Anfu Ling in the late years of Zhongxing in Qi Dynasty, and died while serving.
When the bad news reached the Xun family, Xunjiang howled and cried bitterly. He passed out and his whole body was cold. He didn't wake up until night.
Not long after, Xunjiang went to mourn. Every time he stayed by the river, the business travelers who came and went couldn't bear to hear his mournful cries.
Before the mourning was over, Xun Fei, Xun Jiang's brother, was recruited from home to serve as the governor of Yulin. When he was conquering the slang bandits, he was shot by a stray arrow and died in the battle.
When the coffin was brought back, Xunjiang went to Yuzhang to greet him. He saw the boat carrying the coffin from a distance and jumped into the water. People on both sides rushed to rescue him and barely rescued him.
After the coffin arrived home, he could not be buried on time because his family was poor, so he mourned for his father and brother and did not step out of the mourning hut for four years.
After the mourning began, Xunjiang stopped combing and washing his hair, and all his hair fell out.
He cried without timing, his voice became hoarse and then he cried silently, his eye sockets were all rotten, his body was haggard and emaciated, and he was so skinny that even his family no longer recognized him.
The prefectures and counties reported this situation to the court, and Gaozu Xiashao sent Zhongshushe to remove his mourning clothes and promoted him to the Zuo Changshi of the Yuzhang Kingdom.
Although Xunjiang had removed his mourning clothes, he was even more sad and haggard.
His grandfather Sun Qian told him: Your Majesty governs the world with filial piety, and your conduct exceeds that of the ancients, so I issued an edict to remove you from obedience and promote you to this position.
Not only is your father's order irresistible, but it will also make you famous in future generations. It's not just your reputation that will be made famous!
Xunjiang then accepted the official position.
In the end, he died at home due to grief and physical damage. He died at the age of twenty-one.
Yu Qianlou's courtesy name is Zizhen, a new savage.
Yu Yi, the father of Yu Qian Lou, was recruited as the chief secretary of Situ. He refused to take office, so he was famous.
Yu Qianlou was eager to learn since he was a child. He often discussed and recited the "Book of Filial Piety" with others. He never blushed in front of others because he couldn't answer an answer. Nanyang Gaoshi Liu Qiu and Zong Chai thought he was a genius and praised him greatly.
Yu Qianlou was recruited from his home to serve as the governor of the state, and moved to Pingxi to join the army.
He was also appointed as the county magistrate and had special achievements in governing the county.
summary:
Xunjiang, from Yingyin, mourned his father and brother with such intensity that he lost his hair and eyesight. He was promoted by imperial decree but died at twenty-one from grief. Yu Qianlou, from Xinye, tasted his father's excrement to check his health and prayed to die in his father's place. He served as an honest official, refusing treasures, and died at forty-six.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
丹阳尹王志求其在廷尉故事，并请乡居，欲于岁首，举充纯孝之选。
翂曰： 异哉王尹，何量翂之薄乎！
夫父辱子死，斯道固然。若翂有靦面目，当其此举，则是因父买名，一何甚辱！
拒之而止。
年十七，应辟为本州主簿。
出监万年县，摄官期月，风化大行。
自雍还至郢，湘州刺史柳悦复召为主簿。
后乡人裴俭、丹阳尹丞臧盾、扬州中正张仄连名荐翂，以为孝行纯至，明通《易》、《老》。
敕付太常旌举。
初，翂以父陷罪，因成悸疾，后因发而卒。
甄恬，字彦约，中山无极人也，世居江陵。
祖钦之，长宁令。
父标之，州从事。
恬数岁丧父，哀感有若成人。
家人矜其小，以肉汁和饭饲之，恬不肯食。
年八岁，问其母，恨生不识父，遂悲泣累日，忽若有见，言其形貌，则其父也，时以为孝感。
家贫，养母常得珍羞。
及居丧，庐于墓侧，恒有鸟玄黄杂色，集于庐树，恬哭则鸣，哭止则止。
又有白雀栖宿其庐。
州将始兴王憺表其行状。
诏曰： 朕虚己钦贤，寤寐盈想。诏彼群岳，务尽搜扬。
恬既孝行殊异，声著邦壤，敦风厉俗，弘益兹多。
牧守腾闻，义同亲览。
可旌表室闾，加以爵位。
恬官至安南行参军。
韩怀明，上党人也，客居荆州。
年十岁，母患尸疰，每发辄危殆。
translation: 
Danyang Yin Wangzhi visited Jifu and asked him to stay in Danyang. He wanted to recommend him to the court as an outstanding person with filial piety at the beginning of the second year.
Ji Feo said: Wang Yin is so weird. Why do you think that I, Ji Feo, are so shallow?
If the father is humiliated, the son should die. Morality should be like this. If I accept Wang Yin's recommendation with a thick face and no shame, it will be to gain fame through my father. What a shame.
Ji Fei rejected Wang Zhi's request.
When Ji Fol was seventeen years old, he was called up to be the chief registrar of the state.
He was released from prison in Wannian County and served as county magistrate for one year. His education moved the people and benevolence and righteousness prevailed.
Ji Feo returned to Ying from Yong, and Liu Chen, the governor of Xiangzhou, summoned Ji Feo to take charge of the book.
Later, Pei Jian, a fellow countryman of Ji Ce, Danyang Yin Cheng Zang Dun, Yangzhou Zhongzheng Zhang Ping and others jointly recommended Ji Fe, thinking that he was filial, sincere and sincere, and he was proficient in "Yi" and "Laozi".
The emperor ordered Taichang to be commended and recommended.
At first, Ji Fol suffered from heart palpitations because his father was falsely accused of guilt, and later died of heart palpitations.
Zhen Tian, ​​courtesy name Yanyue, was born in Wuji, Zhongshan, and had lived in Jiangling for generations.
Zhen Tian's grandfather, Zhen Qinzhi, was appointed Chang Ningling.
His father selected him and Renzhou engaged in it.
Zhen Tian's father passed away when he was only a few years old. He was as sad and painful as an adult.
The family felt sorry for his young age and fed him rice with broth, but Zhen Tian refused to eat it.
When he was eight years old, he asked his mother about his biological father. He felt sorry for not remembering his father's image, so he cried sadly for several days. Suddenly, he seemed to see someone. The appearance of this person was his father. People at the time thought that this was filial piety that moved the gods.
His family is poor, but he feeds his mother with delicious dishes.
During the mourning time, a thatched cottage was built next to the tomb in the villa area. Black and yellow birds of various colors often gathered in the trees next to the thatched cottage. When Zhen Tian cries, the birds chirp, and when Zhen Tian stops crying, the chirping of the birds stops.
There was also a white sparrow perched on his thatched cottage.
Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing in the state, came to report Zhen Tian's virtue and performance.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: I admire sages with all my heart, think about my dreams all day long, and issue edicts to ministers from all over the world. I must do my best to search for, recommend and commend them.
Zhen Tian's filial piety is particularly outstanding, and her reputation is well-known in her hometown. This has many benefits for the honest and honest folk customs.
The magistrate presented the dispatches just as I saw them with my own eyes.
His whole family should be commended and he should be given a title.
Zhen Tian was appointed an official and went to Annan to join the army.
Han Huaiming, a member of the Shangdang Party, lived in Jingzhou.
When he was ten years old, Han Huaiming's mother suffered from tuberculosis, and each attack was often dangerous.
summary:
Ji Feo, from Xiangyang, begged to die for his father, who was falsely accused. At fifteen, he beat the Dengwen drum and faced torture without flinching. His father was pardoned, but Ji Feo later died from heart palpitations. Zhen Tian, from Jiangling, mourned his father from childhood, with birds responding to his cries. He was commended by the emperor and appointed to a military post.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
怀明夜于星下稽颡祈祷，时寒甚切，忽闻香气，空中有人语曰： 童子母须臾永差，无劳自苦。
未晓，而母豁然平复。
乡里异之。
十五丧父，几至灭性，负土成坟，赠助无所受。
免丧，与乡人郭瑀俱师事南阳刘虬。
虬尝一日废讲，独居涕泣。
怀明窃问其故，虬家人答云： 是外祖亡日。
时虬母亦亡矣。
怀明闻之，即日罢学，还家就养。
虬叹曰： 韩生无虞丘之恨矣。
家贫，常肆力以供甘脆，嬉怡膝下，朝夕不离母侧。
母年九十一，以寿终，怀明水浆不入口一旬，号哭不绝声。
有双白鸠巢其庐上，字乳驯狎，若家禽焉，服释乃去。
既除丧，蔬食终身，衣衾无改。
天监初，刺史始兴王憺表言之。
州累辟不就，卒于家。
刘昙净，字元光，彭城莒人也。
祖元真，淮南太守，居郡得罪；父慧镜，历诣朝士乞哀，恳恻甚至，遂以孝闻。
昙净笃行有父风。
解褐安成王国左常侍。父卒于郡，昙净奔丧，不食饮者累日，绝而又苏。
每哭辄呕血。
服阕，因毁瘠成疾。
会有诏，士姓各举四科，昙净叔父慧斐举以应孝行，高祖用为海宁令。
昙净以兄未为县，因以让兄，乃除安西行参军。
父亡后，事母尤淳至，身营飧粥，不以委人。
母疾，衣不解带。
及母亡，水浆不入口者殆一旬。
母丧，权瘗药王寺。时天寒，昙净身衣单布，庐于瘗所，昼夜哭泣不绝声，哀感行路，未及期而卒。
translation: 
Han Huaiming was kowtowing and praying under the starry sky at night. It was very cold at that time. He suddenly smelled the fragrance. Someone in the air said to him: Little child, your mother will recover permanently in a while, and you don’t have to worry about it anymore.
Before dawn, his mother's illness had recovered.
The fellow villagers were surprised by this.
When Han Huaiming was fifteen years old, his father passed away. He was extremely sad during the funeral, almost to the point of destroying his life. He piled dirt on his back and made a grave, and did not accept any gifts or help from others.
After the mourning period expired, he and his fellow villager Guo Mo went to Nanyang to worship Liu Qiu as their teacher.
Liu Qiu once stopped teaching one day and was alone, crying sadly.
Han Huaiming secretly asked others why Liu Qiu was sad and alone. Liu Qiu's family replied: Today is the death anniversary of my grandfather's death.
Liu Qiu's mother had also died at that time.
When Han Huaiming heard about this, he stopped studying that day and went home to support his mother.
Liu Qiu sighed and said: Han Sheng no longer has the regret of not being able to support his parents like Qiu Wuzi.
Han Huaiming's family was poor, so he often tried his best to provide his mother with delicious food, and often laughed at his mother's side to make her happy. He would not leave his mother's side all day long.
When his mother was ninety-one years old, she passed away. Han Huaiming was deprived of water and food for ten days, howling and crying incessantly.
A pair of white doves built a nest on the thatched cottage where he was mourning. They laid eggs and raised small birds. They were very close to people, just like poultry. The white doves did not leave until the mourning period of Han Huaiming was over.
After the mourning period expired, Han Huaiming only ate vegetarian food for the rest of his life and did not change his clothes.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xiao Qi, the governor of Shixing, went to the court to commemorate Han Huaiming's filial piety.
Han Huaiming was called up many times by the state capital, but Han Huaiming failed to do so and died at home.
Liu Tanjing, courtesy name Yuanguang, was born in Lu County, Pengcheng.
Liu Tanjing's grandfather, Liu Yuanzhen, served as the prefect of Huainan and was convicted while serving in the county. Liu Tanjing's father, Liu Huijing, went to the court ministers to plead for mercy one by one. His feelings were sad and pitiful, and his words were very sincere, so he became famous for his filial piety.
Liu Tanjing practiced filial piety and possessed the character of his father.
Liu Tanjing first became an official and served as the Zuo Changshi of the Ancheng Kingdom. His father died in the county. He went to attend the funeral and did not eat or drink for many days. He fainted and regained consciousness many times.
Every time I cried, I cried until I vomited blood.
After the mourning period expired, he became thin and sick due to excessive grief during the mourning period.
It happened that the emperor issued the Shao Order, instructing the gentry to recommend talents according to four subjects. Liu Tanjing's uncle Liu Huifei recommended Liu Tanjing to be a filial scholar, and Gaozu appointed Liu Tanjing as the Haining Order.
Because his brother had not yet obtained the post of county magistrate, Liu Tanjing gave up the order of Haining to his brother, and the court then appointed him to join the army for the Anxi expedition.
After Liu Tanjing's father died, he served his mother with utmost sincerity and filial piety. He cooked the rice and porridge himself and did not leave the chores to others.
When his mother was sick, he took care of her day and night without taking any clothes off.
After his mother died, he went without food or water for nearly ten days.
His mother's coffin was temporarily buried at Yaowang Temple. The weather was cold at that time. Liu Tanjing, wearing single clothes, built a thatched cottage at the place where the coffin was buried to observe the mourning. He cried continuously day and night, and his grief moved everyone on the way. Within a year, Liu Tanjing himself passed away.
summary:
Han Huaiming, from Jingzhou, prayed for his mother's recovery and heard a divine voice. He mourned his father excessively and served his mother with devotion. White doves nested at his mourning hut. He refused official posts and died at home. Liu Tanjing, from Pengcheng, mourned his father with vomiting blood and later served his mother with care, dying within a year of her death.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
何炯，字士光，庐江灊人也。
父撙，太中大夫。
炯年十五，从兄胤受业，一期并通《五经》章句。
炯白皙，美容貌，从兄求、点每称之曰： 叔宝神清，弘治肤清。今观此子，复见卫、杜在目。
炯常慕恬退，不乐进仕。
从叔昌珝谓曰： 求、点皆已高蹈，尔无宜复尔。
且君子出处，亦各一途。
年十九，解褐扬州主簿。
举秀才，累迁王府行参军、尚书兵、库部二曹郎。
出为永康令，以和理称。
还为仁威南康王限内记室，迁治书侍御史。
以父疾经旬，衣不解带，头不栉沐，信宿之间，形貌顿改。
及父卒，号恸不绝声，枕塊藉地，腰虚脚肿，竟以毁卒。
庾沙弥，颍阴人也。
晋司空冰六世孙。
父佩玉，辅国长史、长沙内史，宋升明中坐沈攸之事诛，沙弥时始生。
年至五岁，所生母为制采衣，辄不肯服。母问其故，流涕对曰： 家门祸酷，用是何为！
既长，终身布衣蔬食。
起家临川王国左常侍，迁中军田曹行参军。
嫡母刘氏寝疾，沙弥晨昏侍侧，衣不解带，或应针灸，辄以身先试之。
及母亡，水浆不入口累日，终丧不解衰绖，不出庐户，昼夜号恸，邻人不忍闻。
墓在新林，因有旅松百余株，自生坟侧。
族兄都官尚书咏表言其状，应纯孝之举，高祖召见嘉之，以补歙令。
还除轻车邵陵王参军事，随府会稽，复丁所生母忧。
丧还都，济浙江，中流遇风，舫将覆没，沙弥抱柩号哭，俄而风静，盖孝感所致。
服阕，除信威刑狱参军，兼丹阳郡囗囗囗累迁宁远录事参军，转司马。
出为长城令，卒。
translation: 
He Jiong, courtesy name Shiguang, was born in Dan County, Lujiang.
His father, He Huan, served as a doctor in Taizhong.
When He Jiong was fifteen years old, he followed his brother He Yin in his profession, and within one year he read through the general outline of the Five Classics.
He Jiong has fair skin and handsome appearance. His cousins ​​He Qiu and He Dian often praise him and say: "Wei Niushi has a clear mind, and Du Hongzhi has a beautiful appearance. Now when I look at the child, I seem to see Wei and Du again."
He Jiong often yearned for a quiet and retired life and was not willing to enter an official career.
He Jiongtang's uncle He Changyu said to him: "Why do you want to live in seclusion? You should not behave like this again."
Moreover, every gentleman has his own way of becoming an official and retiring from office.
When Yu Yan was nineteen years old, he became an official for the first time and held the owner's book.
He was recommended as a scholar, and was successively promoted to the royal palace to join the army, Shangshu Bing, and the second caolang of the Treasury.
He left the capital and served as Yongkang Ling, and was famous for his harmonious handling of affairs.
He returned to Beijing and served as the internal record office of Renwei Nankang King, and moved to the post of official secretary and censor.
Because his father was ill, He Jiong stayed naked for more than ten days without combing or washing his hair. He was busy serving his father. In two or three nights, his appearance suddenly changed a lot.
After his father passed away, He Jiong howled and cried constantly, sitting and lying on the ground, and sleeping with his head on the earth. As a result, his waist and kidneys were weak and his feet were swollen. Eventually, his body was destroyed by excessive grief and he died.
Yu Shami, a native of Yingyin.
The sixth generation grandson of Jin Si Kong Yubing.
His father, Yu Peiyu, served as the official governor of the state and the internal history of Changsha. During the reign of Emperor Shengming of the Song Dynasty, he was executed for being convicted of Yu Shami's affair. Yu Shami had just been born at that time.
When Yu novice was five years old, his biological mother made him a minor's dress, but he often refused to wear it. When his mother asked him why he refused to wear it, he answered with tears: Our family has suffered a tragic disaster, what's the use of sending things away!
After growing up, he wore civilian clothes and ate a vegetarian diet throughout his life.
Yu Shami was recruited from his family to serve as the Zuo Changshi of the Linchuan Kingdom, and moved to the Central Army Tian Caoxing to join the army.
When his aunt passed away and fell ill, Yu novice stayed by her side morning and evening, undressed, and sometimes needed acupuncture treatment, so Yu novice would test it on his own body first.
After his aunt's death, he had no food or drink for many days. Until the period of mourning is over, he does not take off his mourning clothes and does not leave the gate of the mourning hut. He howls and cries day and night, and the neighbors cannot bear to hear his cry.
My aunt's tomb was built in the new forest, and then there were more than a hundred unplanted pine trees growing beside the tomb.
Yu Yong, the official minister of the capital of Yushami tribe, reported Yushami's filial piety and recommended him to the subject of pure filial piety. Emperor Gaozu summoned Yushami, commended him for his filial piety, and appointed him as the replacement magistrate of She County.
After returning to Kyoto, he was given a light chariot by King Shaoling to join the military, and he followed King Shaoling in the palace of Kuaiji.
When his biological mother died again, Yu novice escorted the coffin back to the capital. When crossing Zhejiang, the ship encountered a strong wind in the center of Zhejiang and almost sank. Yu novice hugged his biological mother's coffin and howled bitterly. After a while, the wind dried up and the sea calmed down. This was probably because his filial piety moved the gods.
After the mourning period expired, Yu Shami was awarded the title of Xinwei Penal Prison and joined the army and Danyang County Koukou. He was repeatedly promoted to Ningyuan Lushi, joined the army, and was transferred to Sima.
He served as the Great Wall Order and died.
summary:
He Jiong, from Lujiang, served his ill father without rest, changing appearance drastically. He died from grief after his father's death. Yu Shami, from Yingyin, refused fine clothes due to family tragedy. He served his aunt with devotion, and pine trees grew at her tomb. He was commended for filial piety and died in office.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
江紑，字含洁，济阳考城人也。
父蒨，光禄大夫。
紑幼有孝性。年十三，父患眼，紑侍疾将期月，衣不解带。
夜梦一僧云： 患眼者，饮慧眼水必差。
及觉说之，莫能解者。
紑第三叔禄与草堂寺智者法师善，往访之。
智者曰： 《无量寿经》云：慧眼见真，能渡彼岸。
蒨乃因智者启舍同夏县界牛屯里舍为寺，乞赐嘉名。
敕答云： 纯臣孝子，往往感应。
晋世颜含，遂见冥中送药。
近见智者，知卿第二息感梦，云饮慧眼水。
慧眼则是五眼之一号，若欲造寺，可以慧眼为名。
及就创造，泄故井，井水清冽，异于常泉。
依梦取水洗眼及煮药，稍觉有瘳，因此遂差。
时人谓之孝感。
南康王为南州，召为迎主簿。
紑性静，好《老》、《庄》玄言，尤善佛义，不乐进仕。
及父卒，紑庐于墓，终日号恸不绝声，月余卒。
刘霁，字士烜，平原人也。
祖乘民，宋冀州刺史。
父闻慰，齐工员郎。
霁年九岁，能诵《左氏传》，宗党咸异之。
十四居父忧，有至性，每哭辄呕血。
家贫，与弟杳、高相笃励学。
既长，博涉多通。
天监中，起家奉朝请，稍迁宣惠晋安王府参军，兼限内记室，出补西昌相。
入为尚书主客侍郎。未期，除海盐令。
霁前后宰二邑，并以和理著称。
还为建康正，非所好。顷之，以疾免。
寻除建康令，不拜。
母明氏寝疾，霁年已五十，衣不解带者七旬，诵《观世音经》，数至万遍，夜因感梦，见一僧谓曰： 夫人算尽，君精诚笃至，当相为申延。
后六十余日乃亡。
霁庐于墓，哀恸过礼。
常有双白鹤驯翔庐侧。
处士阮孝绪致书抑譬，霁思慕不已，服未终而卒，时年五十二。
著《释俗语》八卷，文集十卷。
弟杳在《文学传》，高在《处士传》。
translation: 
Jiang Yu, whose courtesy name is Hanjie, was born in Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His father, Jiang Bei, served as doctor Guanglu.
Jiang Bian had a filial nature since he was a child. When he was thirteen years old, his father suffered from an eye disease. Jiang Biao served his sick father for nearly a year without taking off his clothes.
He dreamed of a monk at night who said: People suffering from eye diseases will definitely be cured by drinking Eye Wisdom Water.
Jiang Pu woke up and told the story, but no one could explain the meaning of "Hui Yan Shui".
Jiang Pu's third uncle Liao Zheng had a good relationship with Master Zhizhe of Caotang Temple, so he went to consult Master Zhizhe.
Master Wise said: "The Infinite Life Sutra" says: The wise eye sees the truth and can cross to the other side.
Jiang Hao followed the inspiration of the wise master and dedicated a house in Niutun, Tongxia County, as a temple, asking God to give him a good name.
The imperial edict replied: A loyal minister and a filial son are responsive everywhere.
Yan Han of the Jin Dynasty finally saw the medicine sent from the underworld.
I met a wise man recently and learned that your second son had a dream because of his sincerity, saying that he wanted to drink the water of wisdom.
Wisdom Eye is the name of one of the five eyes. If you want to build a temple, you can use Wisdom Eye as the name of the temple.
When they built the temple, they discovered an old well with clear water, which was different from ordinary spring water.
Jiang Bei took water from the well to wash her eyes and boil medicine according to what Jiang Xia saw in her dream. She gradually felt better and her eye disease was cured.
People at that time thought this was an expression of filial piety.
The King of Nankang was the governor of Southern Xuzhou, and he summoned Pi to be the chief official.
Dou Mian is quiet by nature, likes the mystical words of "Laozi" and "Zhuangzi", is especially proficient in the essence of Buddhism, and is not willing to enter an official career.
After his father passed away, Jiang Huai built a thatched cottage next to his father's tomb, howling and crying all day long. More than a month later, Jiang Pu also passed away.
Liu Ji, courtesy name Shiju, was from Pingyuan.
His grandfather Liu Chengmin was the governor of Jizhou during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Liu Wenwei, was a member of the imperial family during the Qi Dynasty.
When Liu Ji was nine years old, he could recite "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and his relatives were surprised by his talent.
When he was fourteen years old, his father died. Liu Ji had a natural sense of filial piety and cried until he vomited blood every time.
The family was poor, so Liu Ji and his younger brothers Liu Yao and Liu Di encouraged each other and devoted themselves to study.
After growing up, Liu Ji has been involved in a wide range of subjects and is knowledgeable and talented.
During the Tianjian period, Liu Ji was recruited from his home to serve at the court's invitation. He was gradually promoted to Xuanhui and joined the army in Jin'an Palace.
He also went to Beijing and served as Minister of Host and Guest. Within a year, he was appointed as the Order of Haiyan.
Liu Ji served as magistrate of two counties. During his tenure, he was known for his harmonious handling of affairs.
When he returned to the capital, he was appointed as Jian Kangzheng, but he did not like the position. He was soon dismissed because of illness.
Soon he was awarded the Jiankang Order, but he did not accept the appointment.
Liu Ji's mother, Mingshi, fell ill. Liu Ji was already fifty years old at that time. He served his mother untiedly for seventy days and recited the "Avalokiteśvara Sutra" ten thousand times. At night, he had a dream due to emotion. In his dream, he saw a monk saying to him: My wife's life span has been exhausted. With your sincerity and sincerity, I will extend your wife's life for you.
Liu Ji's mother passed away more than sixty years later.
Liu Ji built a thatched hut next to his mother's grave to mourn. His grief exceeded common courtesy.
There is often a pair of white cranes flying docilely beside the thatched cottage.
Ruan Xiaoxu, a virgin, wrote to him to comfort and enlighten him. But Liu Ji still missed his deceased mother endlessly, and died before the mourning was over. He died at the age of fifty-two.
Liu Ji is the author of eight volumes of "Explanation of Common Sayings" and ten volumes of collected works.
The deeds of his younger brother Liu Yao are in "The Biography of Literature", and the deeds of Liu Di are in "The Biography of Chu Shi".
summary:
Jiang Yu, from Kaocheng, served his blind father, dreaming of "Wisdom Eye Water." He built a temple where an old well appeared, curing his father's eyes. He mourned his father excessively and died. Liu Ji, from Pingyuan, mourned his father with vomiting blood and served his mother, reciting sutras. White cranes appeared at his mourning hut. He died before mourning ended at fifty-two. Chu Xiu, from Qiantang, mourned his parents with extreme grief, fasting for twenty-three days and dying from weakness. Xie Lin, from Yangxia, refused food before his parents ate. He mourned his father excessively and later his mother, dying from grief at thirty-eight. The text concludes by comparing these individuals to ancient filial exemplars like Zeng Shen, noting that some, like Liu Tanjing, He Jiong, Jiang Yu, and Xie Lin, died from grief, similar to Ruqiu and Wu.

