Chunk 0: 
original: 
左雄字伯豪，南阳涅阳人也。
安帝时，举孝廉，稍迁冀州刺史。
州部多豪族，好请托，雄常闭门不与交通。
奏案贪猾二千石，无所回忌。
永建初，公车征拜议郎。
时，顺帝新立，大臣懈怠，朝多阙政，雄数言事，其辞深切。
尚书仆射虞诩以雄有忠公节，上疏荐之曰 臣见方今公卿以下，类多拱默，以树恩为贤，尽节为愚，至相戒曰：白璧不可为，容容多后福。
伏见议郎左雄，数上封事，至引陛下身遭难厄，以为警戒，实有王臣蹇蹇之节，周公谟成王之风。
臣闻柔远和迩，莫大宁人，宁人之务，莫重用贤，用贤之道，必存考黜。
是以皋陶对禹，贵在知人。 安人则惠，黎民怀之 分伯建侯，代位亲民，民用和穆，礼让以兴。
故《诗》云 有渰凄凄，兴雨祁祁。
雨我公田，遂及我私 及幽、厉昏乱，不自为政，褒艳用权，七子党进，贤愚错绪，深谷为陵。
故其诗云 四国无政，不用其良 又曰 哀今之人，胡为虺蜴 言人畏吏如虺蜴也。
宗周既灭，六国并秦，坑儒泯典，刬革五等，更立郡县，县设令苛救敝，悦以济难，抚而循之。
至于文、景，天下康乂。诚由玄靖宽柔，克慎官人故也。
降及宣帝，兴于仄陋，综核名实，知时所病，刺史守相，辄亲引见，考察言行，信赏必罚。
帝乃叹曰 民所以安而无怨者，政平吏良也。
translation: 
◆Zuo Xiong's biography, Zuo Xiong's courtesy name is Bohao, a native of Nieyang, Nanyang.
During the reign of Emperor An, he was elected as Xiaolian and promoted to the governor of Jizhou.
There are a lot of people in the state who like to build relationships and go through the back door. Zuo Xiong often kept the door closed and did not interact with them.
Deal with those corrupt, cunning and ferocious Erqianshi without any respect.
In the early years of Yongjian's reign, public buses were sent to pay homage to Yilang.
At this time, Emperor Shun was newly established, and the ministers were following the rules, and many tasks in the court were not completed.
Zuo Xiong wrote several times with fierce words. Minister Pushe Yu Xu believed that Zuo Xiong was loyal and upright, and wrote a report to the emperor recommending him, saying: I have seen that most of the officials below the public minister are silent and self-respecting. They regard showing kindness as a virtue and loyalty to the court as a fool.
I saw that Zuo Xiong dared to mention the fact that the emperor was in trouble in several memorials, and I took it as a warning. He really has the loyalty and upright spirit of a minister, and has the high demeanor of Zhou Gong to assist the king. If he serves as an official, he will definitely get the benefits of correcting and assisting.
Therefore, he worshiped Zuo Xiong as minister and was promoted to minister. Zuo Xiong said in a memorial: I heard that we should adopt a tolerant policy towards remote areas and use peaceful means towards the inland. The most important thing in doing so is to ensure that the people can get peace, and the most important thing in order for the people to be peaceful is to appoint wise men. But using the wise man’s method, there must be rewards and punishments.
Therefore Gao Tao replied to Xia Yu: The most important thing is to know people. To make the people peaceful, you must love the people. In this way, the people will love you. When he was granted the title of Bo and built a marquis, he cared for the people on behalf of the emperor, so the people became harmonious and respectful, and the custom of courtesy and concessions flourished.
Therefore, "The Book of Songs" says: The clouds are cloudy and the good rain is like silk. Let it rain in the public fields first!
Fall into my private land again. In the chaotic era of King You and King Li, the country was not governed well and Baosi was dictatorial. The seven sons formed a gang and ran rampant. There was no distinction between the wise and the foolish. Deep valleys turned into high mountains.
Therefore, there is a poem that goes: In a country with four directions, political corruption is due to the lack of talented people. He also said: People nowadays are pitiful! Like a lizard, it runs away when it sees an official.
Although the Han Dynasty did not restore the ancient system, it was able to carefully select officials, abolish tyranny, correct shortcomings, appease the people, and solve their difficult problems.
In the Wen and Jing eras, the peace in the world was really the result of quietness and careful selection of officials.
Down to Emperor Xuan, because he came from a humble background, he followed his name and his responsibilities, and knew what was wrong with the politics at that time. Officials such as the governor and the prime minister should be introduced in person and their every word and deed should be scrutinized. If they believe in rewards, they must be punished.
Emperor Xuan sighed and said: The people are now peaceful and have no resentment because of good policies and good officials.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
与我共此者，其唯良二千石乎 以为吏数变易，则下不安业。久于其事，则民服教化。
其有政理者，辄以玺书勉励，增秩赐金，或爵至关内侯，公卿缺则以次用之。
是以吏称其职，人安其业。
汉世良吏，于兹为盛，故能降来仪之端，建中兴之功。汉初至今，三百馀载，俗浸雕敝，巧伪滋萌，下饰其诈，上肆其残。
曲城百里，转动无常，各怀一切，莫虑长久。
谓杀害不辜为威风，聚敛整辨为贤能，以理已安民为劣弱，以奉法循理为不化。
髡钳之戮，生于睚眦。
覆尸之祸，成于喜怒。
视民如寇雠，税之如豺虎。
监司项背相望，与同疾騊，见非不举，闻恶不察，观政于停传，责成于期月，言善不称德，论功不据实，虚诞者获誉，拘检者离毁。
或因罪而引高，或色斯以求名。
州宰不覆，竞共辟召，踊跃升腾，超等逾匹。
或考奏捕案，而亡不受罪，会赦行赂，复见洗涤。
朱紫同色，清浊不分。
故使奸猾枉滥，轻忽去就，拜除如流，缺动百数。
乡官部吏，职斯禄薄，车马衣服，一出于民，谦者取足，贪者充家，特选横调，纷纷不绝，送迎烦费，损政伤民。
和气未洽，灾眚不消，咎皆在此。
今之墨绶，犹古之诸侯，拜爵王庭，舆服有庸，而齐于匹竖，叛命避负，非所以崇宪明理，惠育元元也。
臣愚以为守相长吏，惠和有显效者，可就增秩，勿使移徙，非父母丧不得去官。
其不从法禁，不式王命，锢之终身，虽会赦令，不得齿列。
若被劾奏，亡不就法者，徙家边郡，以惩其后。
乡部亲民之吏，皆用儒生清白任从政者，宽其负算，增其秩禄，吏职满岁，宰府州郡乃得辟举。
如此，威福之路塞，虚伪之端绝，送迎之役损，赋敛之源息。
循理之吏，得成其化。率土之民，各宁其所。
translation: 
Those who have reached this point with me are all these very good two thousand stones! It is believed that when officials change frequently, the subordinates will not be satisfied with their jobs. If they work for a long time, the people will be influenced by his education.
Those who perform well will write letters of encouragement, be promoted and receive bonuses. Some were promoted to the rank of Marquis of Guannei, and if there were any vacancies among the ministers, they would be filled accordingly.
Therefore, the officials are all competent and the people live and work in peace and contentment.
There were the most good officials in the Han Dynasty at this time. Therefore, the auspicious omen of the Five Arrivals of the Phoenix occurred, and the achievements of Zhongxing were built. From the early years of the Han Dynasty to the present, more than three hundred years have passed, and customs have gradually deteriorated. Counterfeiting and cleverness have flourished, with the lower levels concealing their deceit and the upper levels ruthlessly tyrannizing.
Both the governor and the county magistrate were transferred too frequently. Everyone had their own ideas and did not make long-term considerations.
It is said that killing the innocent is a sign of authority, that extortion and extortion is a method, that it is mediocre and incompetent to lead by example and to calm the people, that it is inflexible and inflexible to abide by the law and act in accordance with the law.
For trivial matters, people's hair is often shaved off and their necks are tied up with iron rings.
Between joy and anger, people are often killed.
Treat the common people as enemies, levy taxes, and be as fierce as tigers, leopards, and wolves.
The officials responsible for supervision looked at each other before and after, but worked together in collusion. Don’t expose wrongdoing when you see it, don’t picket up bad things when you hear them. Observing politics at the post station and asking for success in career in a short period of time can only mean that goodness is not called virtue, merit is not actual performance, deception is used to gain a good reputation, and prudent people are slandered.
Some run away because of their sins in order to gain a noble reputation, while some act based on people's colors and gain a good reputation.
The state chiefs do not conduct assessments, but strive for recommendation and recruitment, continuous promotion, and super promotion.
Some were about to be arrested and brought to justice, but they escaped and were not punished; when they encountered amnesty, they bribed them generously, but nothing happened.
The red and purple colors are mixed together, and the clear and turbid colors are indistinguishable.
Therefore, there are many cunning people, so you can go wherever you like. The orders of appointments flow like a stream, and there are often hundreds of omissions.
Township officials, general officials, have low-level positions, meager salaries, and their carriages, horses, and clothing all come from the common people. The honest ones will be fine if they get enough, but the corrupt ones will have everything for the whole family. Special selections and recruitments are carried out one after another, which causes a lot of trouble and expense, harming the government and harming the people.
If there is no harmony and misfortune persists, the source of guilt lies here.
The current county magistrate is equivalent to the ancient princes. Appointed by the government, there are regulations on clothes and horses, but in fact they are no more than ordinary boys, running away to avoid debts. This cannot be said to be serious about law and discipline, emphasizing governance, and caring for the people.
Although I am ignorant, I believe that those who keep the prime minister and have outstanding administrative achievements can be promoted on the spot and are not allowed to migrate. Unless their parents are dead, they are not allowed to leave their jobs.
Those who disobey the law or obey the king's orders will be banned from serving as officials for life. Even if they are pardoned, they will not be allowed to be among the good people.
If he is impeached, he should be punished by law. If he escapes and disobeys the law, he will move to remote areas to punish future generations.
Officials in the countryside who are close to the people are all Confucian scholars who are clean and capable of serving in politics. If they owe money, they will not be forced to pay. They will increase their salary by a certain amount. After serving for one year, they can be recruited and recommended by the prefectures and counties.
In this way, the way of arrogance and domination is cut off, there are no more frauds, the amount of labor sent to us is reduced, and the source of arbitrary expropriation is blocked.
Officials who govern according to the law can educate people; people all over the world can live and work in peace and contentment.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
追配文、宣中兴之轨，流光垂祚，永世不刊。
帝感其言：申下有司，考其真伪，详所施行。
雄之所言，皆明达政体，而宦竖擅权，终不能用。
自是选代交互，令长月易，迎新送旧，劳扰无已，或官寺空旷，无人案事，每选部剧，乃至逃亡。
永建三年，京师、汉阳地皆震裂，水泉涌出。
四年，司、冀复有大水。
雄推较灾异，以为下人有逆上之征，又上疏言 宜密为备，以俟不虞 寻而青、冀、杨、州盗贼连发，数年之间，海内扰乱。
其后天下大赦，贼虽颇解，而官犹无备，流叛之馀，数月复起。雄与仆射郭虔共上疏，以为 寇贼连年，死亡太半，一人犯法，举宗群亡。
宜及其尚微，开令改悔。若告党与者，听除其罪。能诛斩者，明加其赏 书奏，并不省。
又上言 宜崇经术，缮修太学 帝从之。
阳嘉元年，太学新成，诏试明经者补弟子，增甲乙之科，员各十人。除京师及郡国耆儒年六十以上为郎、舍人、诸王国郎者百三十八人。
雄又上言 郡国孝廉，古之贡士，出则宰民，宣协风教。
若其面墙，则无所施用。
孔子曰四十不惑，《礼》称强仕。
请自今孝廉年不满四十，不得察举，皆先诣公府，诸生试家法，文吏课笺奏，副之端门，练其虚实，以观异能，以美风俗。
有不承科令者，正其罪法。
若有茂才异行，自可不拘年齿 帝从之，于是班下郡国。
明年，有广陵孝廉徐淑，年未及举，台郎疑而诘之。
对曰 诏书曰有如颜回、子奇，不拘年齿，是故本郡以臣充选 郎不能屈。
雄诘之曰 昔颜回闻一知十，孝廉闻一知几邪 淑无以对，乃谴却郡。
于是济阴太守胡广等十馀人皆坐谬举免黜，唯汝南陈蕃、颍川李膺、下邳陈球等三十馀人得拜郎中。
自是牧守畏栗，莫敢轻举。
迄于永憙，察选清平，多得其人。
雄又奏征海内名儒为博士，使公卿子弟为诸生。
translation: 
The great cause of the rejuvenation of Zhongxing with articles and propaganda, and its virtues will be passed down to future generations and will never be extinguished.
Emperor Shun was moved by Zuo Xiong's words, and repeatedly ordered officials to check whether it was true or false and implement it prudently.
What Zuo Xiong said all clarified the principles of governance, but because eunuchs had exclusive power, they never adopted it.
From then on, recommendation replaced interaction, county magistrates changed every month, welcoming the new and seeing off the old, and the labor and harassment were endless. Some government offices are deserted and no one is doing anything. Whenever the election work becomes tense, some even run away.
In the third year of Yongjian's reign, the ground in the capital and Hanyang was cracked by earthquakes, and water springs gushed out.
In the fourth year, there was another flood in Si and Ji.
Zuo Xiong deduced the occurrence of the disaster and believed that the people below showed signs of rebellion. And Shangshu said: We should make strict preparations to deal with the occurrence of unexpected events. Soon, thieves from Qingzhou, Hebei, and Yangzhou became troubled one after another. Within a few years, the country was in chaos.
Later, the imperial court granted a general amnesty to the whole country. Although the thieves were slightly relieved, the officials were still unguarded. The remnants of the rebellious party in exile rose up to cause trouble again within a few months. Zuo Xiong and his servant Guo Qian jointly signed a petition, believing that the bandits had been bandits for many years, and most of them died. If one person broke the law, the whole clan would die together.
We should teach him to change his ways while his crime is still minor. If he exposes his accomplices, he can be exempted from the crime; if he can fight back and kill the criminal, he should be rewarded.
I sent it to him, but he didn't accept it. He also said: We should respect the classics and build the Imperial Academy. Emperor Shun listened to him.
In the first year of Yangjia, the Taixue was completed. The emperor ordered to add two types of disciples, A and B, with ten students each. Thirty-eight people from the capital and prefectures who were over sixty years old were awarded to be Lang, Sheren, and Lang of various kingdoms.
Zuo Xiong said again: "The filial piety and integrity of the county are the tribute officials in ancient times." When you become an official, you must help regulate customs and promote education.
If you don't have knowledge and skills, it will be of no use at all.
Confucius said: A person at the age of forty will no longer have any doubts.
"Li" states that "forty means strong and official", which means that when a man is forty, his intelligence, consideration and strength are strong, and he can become an official. Please, from now on, those who are under the age of 40 will not be recommended. They should all go to the government office first. They will study in the Confucian family, and the civil servants will take the official document examination. Duanmen re-examination, test his true and false, observe his special talents, and improve his customs.
Anyone who fails to comply with the law will be dealt with according to law.
If you meet someone with special talents, you can naturally do it regardless of age. Emperor Shun accepted it. So the county was promulgated.
The next year, there was Xu Shu, a filial and honest woman in Guangling who was not yet old enough to be elected. Tailang was suspicious and asked him what was going on.
Xu Shu replied: "What the edict said is like Yan Hui and Zi Qi, regardless of age." So our county asked me to serve as an elector. Lang couldn't give in to him.
Zuo Xiong asked him: "In the past, when Yan Hui heard one, he knew ten. When Xiaolian heard one, he knew how many?" Xu Shu had no answer, so she gave him a lecture and ordered him to return to the county.
Therefore, Hu Guang, the governor of Jiyin, and more than a dozen people were dismissed from office due to election errors. Only more than 30 people, including Chen Fan from Runan, Li Ying from Yingchuan, and Chen Qiu from Xiapi, were allowed to worship the doctor.
From then on, Mu Shou was afraid and did not dare to recommend Xiaolian casually.
By the time of Yongxi, the election was clean and many talents were hired.
Zuo Xiong also requested that famous Confucian scholars in the country be recruited as doctors, and the children of public ministers be recruited as students.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
有志操者，加其俸禄。
及汝南谢廉，河南赵建，年始十二，各能通经，雄并奏拜童子郎。
于是负书来学，云集京师。
初，帝废为济阴王，乳母宋娥与黄门孙程等共议立帝，帝后以娥前有谋，遂封为山阳君，邑五千户。
又封大将军梁商子冀襄邑侯。
雄上封事曰 夫裂土封侯，王制所重。
高皇帝约，非刘氏不王，非有功不侯。
孝安皇帝封江京、王圣等，遂致地震之异。
永建二年，封阴谋之功，又有日食之变。
数术之士，咸归咎于封爵。
今青州饑虚，盗贼未息，民有乏绝，上求禀贷。
陛下乾乾劳思，以济民为务。
宜循古法，宁静无为，以求天意，以消灾异。
诚不宜追录小恩，亏失大典 帝不听。
雄复谏曰：臣闻人君莫不好忠正而恶谗谀，然而历世之患，莫不以忠正得罪，谗谀蒙幸者，盖听忠难，从谀易也。
夫刑罪，人情之所甚恶。贵宠，人情之所甚欲。
是以时俗为忠者少，而习谀者多。
故令人主数闻其美，稀知其过，迷而不悟，至于危亡。
臣伏见诏书，顾念阿母旧德宿恩。欲特加显赏。
案尚书故事，无乳母爵邑之制，唯先帝时阿母王圣为野王君。
圣造生谗贼废立之祸，生为天下所咀嚼，死为海内所欢快。
桀、纣贵为天子，而庸仆羞与为比者，以其无义也。
夷、齐贱为匹夫，而王侯争与为伍者，以其有德也。
今阿母躬蹈约俭，以身率下，群僚蒸庶，莫不向风，而与王圣并同爵号，惧违本操，失其常愿。
臣愚以为凡人之心，理不相远，其所不安，古今一也。
百姓深惩王圣倾覆之祸，民萌之命，危于累卵，常惧时世复有此类。
translation: 
Those who are ambitious and moral will receive an increase in salary.
Xie Lian of Runan and Zhao Jian of Henan were only twelve years old and both knew the art of Confucian classics. Zuo Xiong both petitioned to worship the boy.
Therefore, many people came to the capital to study with their schoolbags on their backs.
At first, Emperor Shun was deposed as King of Jiyin, and wet nurse Song E discussed with Huangmen Sun Cheng to establish an emperor. Later, the emperor believed that Song E had a plot, so he named her Lord of Shanyang, with a city of 5,000 households.
He also made Liang Ji, the general of Liang Shangzi, the Marquis of Xiangyi.
Zuo Xiong secretly wrote a letter saying: "It is a major event for the Wang family to entrust the land to the princes."
Emperor Gao once had a rule: no one with the surname Liu could be granted the title of king, and no one with the surname of Liu could be granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Xiaoan granted the title of Jiangjing, Wangsheng and others, which caused earthquake disasters.
In the second year of Yongjian's reign, there was another solar eclipse.
Some yin and yang scientists blame these strange things on the kings and princes.
Now there is a famine in Qingzhou, the bandits have not been subdued, the people are in dire straits, and they are asking for help from the state.
The emperor was diligent and thoughtful all day long, taking care of the sufferings of the people as his first priority.
We should abide by the ancient laws, stay quiet and do nothing, in order to seek God's will and eliminate disasters.
In fact, the national ceremony should not be ruined by remembering small favors. The emperor did not accept it.
Zuo Xiong also advised: I have heard that there is no monarch who does not love loyalty and integrity but hates flattery and flattery. However, there have been great troubles in the past dynasties, and there are always those who are not guilty of loyalty and integrity, but flattery and flattery. Probably because he likes to hear honest words but flattery.
Generally speaking, being sentenced and sentenced is always the most evil thing in human feelings, and being favored by the emperor and being promoted to a noble title is always the most desirable thing in human feelings.
Therefore, there are few loyal people in the world, but many people are imitators.
The master only hears good things about him and rarely hears about his shortcomings. He is confused and does not know how to wake up, and in the end he is in danger.
I saw that the edict cared about my mother's old virtues and kindness, and wanted to reward her specially.
According to the old rules of the Shangshu, there is no system of conferring titles and towns on wet nurses. Only during the reign of the late emperor, King Amu conferred the title of Ye Wangjun.
Wang Sheng caused the catastrophe of abolishing Li. When he was alive, he was hated by everyone in the world. After he died, no one in the world was unhappy.
Jie and Zhou are the emperors, but their servants are ashamed to be with them. This is because Jie and Zhou are unrighteous!
Boyi and Shuqi were ordinary people, but the princes and princes fought to be friends with them because Boyi and Shuqi were virtuous!
Nowadays, my mother lives a frugal life and sets an example. All officials and ordinary people follow her example. If I were to be knighted like Wang Sheng, I would be afraid that it would violate her ethics and instead violate her wishes.
I think that all people are the same, and the principles are not too far apart. Everything that is wrong has the same understanding in ancient and modern times.
The people deeply hated the great disaster that Wang Sheng brought to overthrow the country. The lives of the people were like stacking eggs, which was very dangerous.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
怵惕之念，未离于心。
恐惧之言，未绝乎口。
乞如前议，岁以千万给奉阿母，内足以尽恩爱之欢，外可不为吏民所怪。
梁冀之封，事非机急，宜过灾厄之运，然后平议可否。
会复有地震、缑氏山崩之异，雄复上疏谏曰 先帝封野王君，汉阳地震，今封山阳君而京城复震，专政在阴，其灾尤大。
臣前后瞽言封爵至重，王者可私人以财，不可以官，宜还阿母之封，以塞灾异。
今冀已高让，山阳君亦宜崇其本节 雄言数切至，娥亦畏惧辞让，而帝恋恋不能已，卒封之。
后阿母遂以交遘失爵。
是时，大司农刘据以职事被谴，召诣尚书，传呼促步，又加以捶扑。
雄上言 九卿位亚三事，班在大臣，行有佩玉之节，动有庠序之仪。
孝明皇帝始有扑罚，皆非古典 帝从而改之，其后九卿无复捶扑者。
自雄掌纳言，多所匡肃，每有章表奏议，台阁以为故事。迁司隶校尉。
初，雄荐周举为尚书，举既称职，议者咸称焉。
及在司隶，又举故冀州刺史冯直以为将帅，而直尝坐臧受罪，举以此劾奏雄。
雄悦曰 吾尝事冯直之父而又与直善，今宣光以此奏吾，乃是韩厥之举也 由是天下服焉。
明年坐法免。后复为尚书。
永和三年卒。
周举字宣光，汝南汝阳人，陈留太守防之子。
防在《儒林传》。
举姿貌短陋，而博学洽闻，为儒者所宗，故京师为之语曰 《五经》从横周宣光
延光四年，辟司徒李郃府。
时宦者孙程等既立顺帝，诛灭诸阎，议郎陈禅以为阎太后与帝无母子恩，宜徙别馆，绝朝见。
translation: 
I often worry about something like this happening again.
Because the thoughts of vigilance are always in the chest, the words of fear are never far from the mouth.
Please follow the previous agreement and give tens of millions of dollars to your mother every year. On the one hand, you will show your love and love, and on the other hand, you will not be blamed by the officials and the people.
Liang Ji's appointment of a marquis is not an urgent matter at the moment. It should be judged whether it is appropriate or not after the disaster has passed.
It happened that there were strange earthquakes and Goushi landslides, and Zuo Xiong went to Shu to advise: "The previous emperor granted the king of Ye, and there was an earthquake in Hanyang. Now he seals the king of Shanyang, and there is another earthquake in the capital, and women interfere in politics, and the disaster is extremely serious."
My nonsense about the title of knight is of great importance. The king can give money to others, but he cannot give officials to others. Grandma's title should be restored and the source of disaster should be blocked.
Now that Liang Ji has given up the title, Lord Shanyang should also respect his own position and give up the title. Zuo Xiong repeatedly gave advice, and his words were very urgent. Song E was also afraid and asked to resign and be granted a title. The emperor was still in love with her and finally made her Lord of Shanyang.
Later, my mother finally lost her title due to conspiracy.
At this time, Liu Zhi, the chief minister, was reprimanded for dereliction of duty. He called him to the minister, shouted loudly, and chased and beat him.
Zuo Xiong said: Jiuqing's official position is second only to Sanshi, and he is a minister. He has the custom of wearing jade and behaves like a scholar.
Only Emperor Xiaoming had the punishment of beating, but it was not in line with the ancient legal system. The emperor listened to him and made corrections. From then on, Jiu Qing was never beaten again.
Ever since Zuo Xiong took charge of Na Yanguan, many things have been done to rectify things. Every time there was a chapter report, Taige regarded it as a model and was promoted to the rank of Sili Xiaowei.
First, Zuo Xiong recommended Zhou Ju as minister. Zhou Ju did a good job and everyone praised Zuo Xiong.
He was promoted to Sili, and Feng Zhi, the former Jizhou governor, was promoted to general. Feng Zhi was once convicted of accepting stolen money, and Zhou Ju took this matter to impeach Zuo Xiong.
Zuo Xiong said happily: I used to be a staff member of Feng Zhi's father, and I was very close to Feng Zhi. Now Zhou Ju is using this to impeach me. This is the behavior of the Jin and Han Dynasties in the Spring and Autumn Period! Therefore, everyone in the world is convinced.
The next year he was convicted and dismissed from office, and later he became minister.
Yonghe died three years ago.
◆Zhou Ju's biography, Zhou Ju's courtesy name is Xuanguang, a native of Ruyang County, Runan County. The son of Chenliu Prefect Zhou Fang.
Zhou Fang is in "The Scholars".
Zhou Ju was short in stature and ugly in appearance, but he was erudite and respected by Confucianists. Therefore, there is a popular saying in the capital: Zhou Xuanguang is governed by the Five Classics.
In the fourth year of Yanguang's reign, he was recruited to serve as an official in Situ Li He's mansion.
At that time, the eunuch Sun Cheng and others had already appointed Emperor Shun to annihilate all the Yan family members. Chen Chan, the eunuch, thought that the Empress Dowager Yan had no mother-child relationship with the emperor, so she should move to a separate residence and cut off any court visits.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
群臣议者咸以为宜。
举谓郃曰 昔郑武姜谋杀严公，严公誓之黄泉。秦始皇怨母失行，久而隔绝，后感颍考叔、茅焦之言，循复子道。书传美之。
今诸阎新诛，太皇幽在离宫，若悲愁生疾，一旦不虞，主上将何以令于天下。
如从禅议，后世归咎明公。
宜密表朝廷，令奉太后，率厉群臣，朝觐如旧，以厌天心，以答人望 郃即上疏陈之。
明年正月，帝乃朝于东宫，太后由此以安。
后长乐少府朱伥代郃为司徒，举犹为吏。
时孙程等坐怀表上殿争功，帝怒，悉徙封远县，敕洛阳令促期发遣。
举说朱伥曰 朝廷在西钟下时，非孙程等岂立。
虽韩、彭、吴、贾之功，何以加诸。今忘其大德，录其小过，如道路夭折，帝有杀功臣之讥。
及今未去，宜急表之 伥曰 今诏怒，二尚书已奏其事，吾独表此，必致罪谴 举曰 明公年过八十，位为台辅，不于今时竭忠报国，惜身安宠，欲以何求。
禄位虽全，必陷佞邪之讥。谏而获罪，犹有忠贞之名。
若举言不足采，请从此辞 伥乃表谏，帝果从之。
举后举茂才，为平丘令。上书言当世得失，辞甚切正。
尚书郭虔、应贺等见之叹息，共上疏称举忠直，欲帝置章御坐，以为规诫。
举稍迁并州刺史。
太原一郡，旧俗以介子推焚骸，有龙忌之禁。
至其亡月，咸言神灵不乐举火，由是士民每冬中辄一月寒食，莫敢烟爨，老小不堪，岁多死者。
举既到州，乃作吊书以置子推之庙，言盛冬去火，残损民命，非贤者之意，以宣示愚民，使还温食。
于是众惑稍解，风俗颇革。
转冀州刺史。
阳嘉三年，司隶校尉左雄荐举，征拜尚书。
举与仆射黄琼同心辅政，名重朝廷，左右惮之。
translation: 
All the ministers in the court thought it was appropriate.
Zhou Ju told Li: Once upon a time, Zheng Wujiang murdered Duke Yan, and Duke Yan swore to meet her underground. Qin Shihuang complained about his mother's bad behavior, and was isolated from his mother for a long time without contact. Later, he was inspired by the words of Ying Kaoshu and Mao Jiao, and restored his son's ways. Letters praised them.
Now that Zhu Yan has just confessed his crime, and the Queen Mother is in confinement and has left the palace, if she is sad and sick and dies, how will the emperor order the world?
If you follow Chen Chan's words, future generations will blame you.
You should secretly go to the court, respect the Queen Mother, lead the ministers, and meet in court as before, fulfilling the aspirations of the people and answering the hopes of the people. Li Jiushangshu stated the matter.
In the first month of the second year, Emperor Shun came to the East Palace, and the Queen Mother was at peace.
Later, Zhu Qian, the Shaofu of Changle, acted as Situ for Li. Zhou Ju was still an official.
At this time, Sun Cheng and others went to the palace to compete for merit because of their pocket watches. The emperor was angry and moved them all to Fengyuan County, and ordered Luoyang to send them away within a time limit.
Zhou Ju said to Zhu Qian: When the emperor was under the Western Bell, how could Sun Cheng and others be established as kings?
Now forget their great virtues and remember their small faults. If they die on the road, the emperor will kill the meritorious officials as a mockery. Before they leave, they should quickly go to court to persuade the emperor.
Zhu Qian said: Now the emperor is angry, the two ministers have already reported it, I am the only one to go to the table, I must be punished. Zhou Ju said: You are already over eighty years old, and you are serving as the Fu of Taiwan. If you don't serve the country with loyalty today, cherish your life and property, and rest assured of the favor you have gained, what else do you want to ask for?
Although he has a good salary and position, he must be the best in being framed and treacherous; if he is punished for admonishing, he must still have a reputation of loyalty.
If what I say is not acceptable, I will say goodbye to you from now on. Zhu Qian then came forward to advise him, and the emperor indeed listened to Zhu Qian's words.
Zhou Ju was later promoted to Maocai and appointed Pingqiu Ling. He wrote a letter describing the gains and losses of the world, and his words were very passionate and upright.
Shangshu Guo Qian, Ying He and others were filled with admiration after seeing this, and jointly wrote a letter to commend Zhou Ju for his loyalty and uprightness. They asked the emperor to place Zhou Ju's letter next to the emperor's seat as a warning.
Zhou Ju moved slightly and merged with the governor of the state.
In a county in Taiyuan, it was an old custom that Jie Zitui burned people to death, and there was a custom of prohibiting fire.
In the month when Jie Zitui died, it was said that the gods did not like to raise fire, so the people had to eat cold food for a month every winter and did not dare to light fires to cook. The old and young could not bear to eat cold food, and many people died every year.
Zhou Ju went to Bingzhou and posted a message in his temple to commemorate Jiezi, saying that the fire in midwinter would destroy the lives of the people. This was not the intention of a sage, so he promoted it to the people so that they could resume eating cooked food.
As a result, the confusion of the people was somewhat explained, and customs gradually changed.
Transferred to Jizhou governor.
In the third year of Yangjia, Zuo Xiong, the captain of the Sili school, recommended Zhou Ju to be appointed minister.
Zhou Ju and Pushe Huang Qiong worked together to assist the government, and their reputation was more important than that of the court. People around the court respected him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
是岁河南、三辅大旱，五谷灾伤，天子亲自露坐德阳殿东厢请雨，又下司隶、河南祷祀河神、名山、大泽。
诏书以举才学优深，特下策问曰 朕以不德，仰承三统，夙兴夜寐，思协大中。
顷年以来，旱灾屡应，稼穑焦枯，民食困乏。
五品不训，王泽未流，群司素餐，据非其位。
审所贬黜，变复之征，厥效何由。
分别具对，勿有所讳 举对曰：臣闻《易》称 天尊地卑，乾坤以定 。
二仪交构，乃生万物，万物之中，以人为贵。
故圣人养之以君，成之以化，顺四节之宜，适阴阳之和，便男女婚娶不过其时。
包之以仁恩，导之以德教，示之以灾异，训之以嘉祥。
此先圣承乾养物之始也。
夫阴阳闭隔，则二气否塞。二气否塞，则人物不昌。人物不昌，则风雨不时。风雨不时，则水旱成灾。
陛下处唐、虞之位，未行尧、舜之政，近废文帝、光武之法，而循亡秦奢侈之欲，内积怨女，外有旷夫。
今皇嗣不兴，东宫未立，伤和逆理，断绝人伦之所致也。
非但陛下行此而已，竖宦之人，亦复虚以形势，威侮良家，取女闭之，至有白首殁无配偶，逆于天心。
昔武王入殷，出倾宫之女。
成汤遭灾，以六事克己。
鲁僖遇旱，而自责祈雨。皆以精诚，转祸为福。
自枯旱以来，弥历年岁，未闻陛下改过之效，徒劳至尊暴露风尘，诚无益也。
又下州郡祈神致请。
昔齐有大旱，景公欲祀河伯，晏子谏曰 不可。
夫河伯以水为城国，鲁鳖为民庶。水尽鱼枯，岂不欲雨。
translation: 
This year, there was a severe drought in Henan and Sanfu, and the grains were affected. The emperor personally sat in the east chamber of Deyang Hall in the open air to pray for rain. He also ordered Sili and Henan to pray and sacrifice to the river god, famous mountains and Daze.
The imperial edict cited Zhou Ju's outstanding talents and profound knowledge, and specifically asked the question: "I am immoral and uphold the authority of heaven, earth, and people. I get up early and go to bed late, hoping to coordinate the great and middle principles to carry out the world."
In recent years, droughts have continued, crops have withered, and people have nothing to eat.
The Wuchang's education is not good, the king's virtues are not spread all over, and all the officials are in their seats and are not qualified for their duties.
Where do the signs of censorship, demotion, dismissal, and restoration come from?
Answer them individually without any worries. Zhou Ju said to him: I heard it said in the Book of Changes: The heaven and the earth are determined by this.
When heaven and earth merge, all things come into being, and among all things, human beings are valued.
Therefore, the saints in ancient times set up monarchs to nurture the people and educate them to grow. The four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter change in time, and the yin and yang are in harmony, so that the marriage between men and women will not become outdated.
Encompass them with benevolence and righteousness, induce them with education and morality, warn them with disasters and disasters, and instruct them with good luck and good luck.
This is the basis for the sages to rely on God’s will to nourish all things.
When heaven and earth are separated, Yin and Yang are not in harmony. If Yin and Yang are not in harmony, people will not be prosperous. If people are not prosperous, wind and rain will come from time to time. Wind and rain will not come from time to time, and floods and droughts will cause disasters.
The emperor was in the position of Yao and Shun of the Tang Dynasty. He did not implement the politics of Yao and Shun, and even abolished the legal system of Emperor Wen and Guangwu. Instead, he followed the luxurious path of the Qin Dynasty. The palace was full of resentful women, and there were many wivesless husbands in the countryside.
There is no crown prince yet, and the East Palace has not been established. This is the result of harming harmony, going against natural principles, and severing human relations.
It is not only the emperor who is like this. The eunuchs resort to fraud, threaten and humiliate the children of good families, take the girls into confinement, and some even die without a spouse, which is against the will of heaven.
Once upon a time, King Wu entered the Yin Dynasty and released all the women in the court so that they could get married.
Chengtang suffered from seven years of drought, how could we do it? The slanderer is evil?
Miyamiya? A female visit? He blamed himself for the six things; when Lu Xi encountered a drought, he blamed himself and prayed for rain; they all thanked Heaven with their sincerity and turned misfortune into blessing.
It has been several years since the drought, and I have not heard of the emperor's changed words and deeds. It is useless to expose myself to the dust. What is the use of this.
He also issued an edict to the prefectures and counties to pray to gods for rain.
Once upon a time, there was a severe drought in the state of Qi. Jinggong wanted to sacrifice to Hebo, but Yanzi advised him: "No."
He Bo uses water as his city and country, and fish and turtles are his common people. When the water is gone and the fish are dry, don’t you want it to rain?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
自是不能致也 陛下所行，但务其华，不寻其实，犹缘木求鱼，却行求前。
诚宜推信革政，崇道变惑，出后宫不御之女，理天下冤枉之狱，除太官重膳之费。
夫五品不训，责在司徒，有非其位，宜急黜斥。
臣自藩外擢典纳言，学薄智浅，不足以对。《易传》曰 阳感天，不旋日 惟陛下留神裁察。
因召见举及尚书令成翊世、仆射黄琼，问以得失。
举等并对以为宜慎官人，去斥贪污，离远佞邪，循文帝之俭，尊孝明之教，则时雨必应。
帝曰 百官贪污佞邪者为谁乎 举独对曰 臣从下州，超备机密，不足以别群臣。
然公卿大臣数有直言者，忠贞也。阿谀苟容者，佞邪也。
司徒视事六年，未闻有忠言异谋，愚心在此 其后以事免司徒刘崎，迁举司隶校尉。
永和元年，灾异数见，省内恶之。
诏召公、卿、中二千石、尚书诣显亲殿，问曰 言事者多云，昔周公摄天子事，及薨，成王欲以公礼葬之，天为动变。
及更葬以天子之礼，即有反风之应。
北乡侯亲为天子而葬以王礼，故数有灾异，宜加尊谥，列于昭穆 群臣议者多谓宜如诏旨，举独对曰 昔周公有请命之应，隆太平之功，故皇天动威，以章圣德。
北乡侯本非正统，奸臣所立，立不逾岁，年号未改，皇天不祐，大命夭昏。
《春秋》王子猛不称崩，鲁子野不书葬。
今北乡侯无它功德，以王礼葬之，于事已崇，不宜称谥。
translation: 
I just can’t ask for it! What the emperor does is only to look good on the surface, without seeking reality. This is like climbing a tree to fish, retreating in order to move forward.
What we should really do is honestly reform the bad government, strengthen the rule of law and eliminate confusion, release the excess women from the harem, rectify the unjust, false and wrong cases in the world, and eliminate the excessive expense of excessive food for the eunuchs.
The education of the Wuchang is not good. This is Situ's responsibility. Incompetent officials should be removed from their posts as soon as possible and dismissed.
I was transferred to the imperial court from out of town to advise the court. I have little knowledge and insufficient intelligence to cope with the situation. "Yi Zhuan" says: Yang touches the sky and does not rotate around the sun. Yang is the Son of Heaven. If you do good deeds for one day, Heaven will do good deeds.
Your Majesty, please pay attention. The emperor then summoned Zhou Ju and Shangshu Ling Cheng Yishi and Pushe Huang Qiong to ask about the gains and losses of the government.
Zhou Ju and others agreed that they should carefully select officials, denounce corruption, avoid getting close to treacherous and sycophantic bad people, abide by Emperor Wen's tradition of frugality, and abide by the teachings of Xiaoming. In this way, the rains will surely respond.
The Emperor said: Who are the corrupt and sycophantic officials among the officials? One of Zhou Ju replied: "I am from Xiazhou. I was promoted to a confidential job and I don't know much about the ministers."
However, if a minister can often dare to speak upright words, he is loyal; if he is flattery and clever, he is treacherous and slanderous.
Situ has been in office for six years, but I haven't heard of any good advice or unique strategies. I'm talking about him. Later, Liu Qi was removed from the post of Situ due to some circumstances, and Zhou Ju was promoted to Sili Xiaowei.
In the first year of Yonghe, disasters often occurred. The palace considered it ominous and scary.
The imperial edict summoned Gongqing, Zhong Erqianshi, and Shangshu to the palace of showing the relatives, and asked: "Those who talk too much talk about things. In the past, the Duke of Zhou handled political affairs on behalf of the emperor. When the Duke of Zhou died, King Cheng wanted to bury him with a public ceremony. Heaven changed for this."
When they are buried with the emperor's rites, there will be a feeling of wind and rain, and the harvest will be exhausted.
The Marquis of Beixiang was originally the Son of Heaven and was buried with royal rites. Therefore, he saw frequent disasters and disasters. He should be given the posthumous title of Son of Heaven and listed among Zuo Zhao and You Mu. Most of the ministers who participated in the discussion said that it should be as the emperor said. One person from Zhou Ju replied: In the past, Duke Zhou responded to requests for orders and made great achievements in bringing peace to the world. Therefore, the emperor used his power to demonstrate his saintliness.
The Marquis of Beixiang was not orthodox in the first place. He was supported by treacherous ministers. He was not established for more than a year, and his reign title was not changed. The emperor did not bless him, and his life was short-lived.
"Spring and Autumn" Prince Meng didn't talk about the collapse of the body, and Lu Ziye didn't write about the burial.
Now the Marquis of Beixiang has no other merits, so burying him with royal rites is already very solemn and he should not be given a posthumous title.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
灾眚之来，弗由此也 于是司徒黄尚、太常桓焉等七十人同举议，帝从之。
尚字伯河，南郡人也，少历显位，亦以政事称。
举出为蜀郡太守，坐事免。
大将军梁商表为从事中郎，甚敬重焉。
六年三月上已日，商大会宾客，宴于洛水，举时称疾不往。
商与亲昵酣饮极欢，及酒阑倡罢，继以《Ε露》之歌，坐中闻者，皆为掩涕。
太仆张种时亦在焉，会还，以事告举。举叹曰 此所谓哀乐失时，非其所也，殃将及乎 商至秋果薨。
商疾笃，帝亲临幸，问以遗言。
对曰 人之将死，其言也善。
臣从事中郎周举，清高忠正，可重任也 由是拜举谏议大夫。
时，连有灾异，帝思商言，召举于显亲殿，问以变眚。
举对曰 陛下初立，遵修旧典，兴化致政，远近肃然。
顷年以来，稍违于前，朝多宠幸，禄不序德。
时，诏遣八使巡行风俗，皆选素有威名者，乃拜举为侍中，与侍中杜乔、守光禄大夫周栩、前青州刺史冯羡、尚书栾巴、侍御史张纲、兖州刺史郭遵、太尉长史刘班，并守光禄大夫，分行天下。
其刺史、二千石有臧罪显明者，驿马上之。墨绶以下，便辄收举。
其有清忠惠利，为百姓所安，宜表异者，皆以状上。
于是八使同时俱拜，天下号曰 八俊 。
举于是劾奏贪猾，表荐公清，朝廷称之。
迁河内太守，征为大鸿胪。
及梁太后临朝，诏以殇帝幼崩，庙次宜在顺帝下。
太常马访奏宜如诏书，谏议大夫吕勃以为应依昭穆之序，先殇帝，后顺帝。
诏下公卿。
translation: 
The disaster is not due to this. So Situ Huang Shang, Taichang Huan Yan and other seventy people all agreed with Zhou Ju's words, and the emperor obeyed.
Huang Shang, whose courtesy name was Bohe, was from Nanjun. When he was young, he held many important positions and was good at political affairs.
Zhou Ju was transferred to the post of governor of Shu County and was dismissed due to circumstances.
General Liang Shang was recommended as a Zhonglang, and he was highly respected.
On the first day of March in the sixth year, Liang Shang gathered guests and held a banquet in Luoshui. Zhou Ju could not go because he was ill.
Liang Shang and those close to him got drunk and were very happy. After the wine was over, the female singers stopped, and then the song "Zhao Lu" was sung. Everyone in the audience shed tears when they heard it.
The servant Zhang Zhong was also there at that time. After he came back, he told Zhou Ju about this. Zhou Ju sighed and said: This is what is called losing time for joy and sorrow, and it is not the right place. Disaster is coming! Liang Shang died in the autumn.
When Liang Shang was critically ill, the emperor visited him in person and asked him if he had anything to say.
Liang Shang replied: When a person is about to die, what he says is good.
My profession is Zhonglang Zhouju. I am honest, loyal and upright, and can hold important positions. Therefore, Zhou Ju was appointed as an admonishing official.
At this time, disasters continued, and the emperor remembered Liang Shang's words, summoned Zhou Ju to the palace of showing his relatives, and asked him the reasons for the disasters.
Zhou Ju replied: The emperor succeeded to the throne, abided by the original laws and regulations of the country, carried out enlightenment to seek governance, and was solemn from far and near, showing no signs of restlessness.
In recent years, slightly contrary to the previous practice, some bad people in the court have been favored and appointed officials without paying attention to moral character.
At this time, the imperial court issued an edict to send eight envoys to inspect the customs. They always choose the most prestigious people to serve. Zhou Ju was awarded the title of Shizhong, and together with Du Qiao, the acting Guanglu doctor, Zhou Xiang, former Qingzhou governor Feng Xian, Shangshu Luanba, Shiyushi Zhang Gang, Yanzhou governor Guo Zun, Taiwei chief Liu Ban and guard Guanglu doctor, they branched out all over the world.
For those who have obvious crimes of being a governor and stealing two thousand stones, they can be issued an edict on the post horse; if they are under the county magistrate, they can be arrested immediately.
Those who are honest and upright, have political achievements, are supported by the people, and should be praised should be reported to the court.
So eight envoys were appointed at the same time, and the world was known as the "Eight Heroes".
Zhou Ju impeached him for corruption and cunning, and recommended him as fair and honest. The court was very satisfied.
He was conquered as Dahonglu.
The Empress Dowager of Liang came to govern the court and issued an edict that Emperor Shang died when he was young, and his temple order should be under that of Emperor Shun.
Taichang Ma visited and reported that it should be as stated in the imperial edict. Lu Bo, the remonstrating official, believed that the order of Zuo Zhao and You Mu should be followed, first to destroy the emperor and then to submit to the emperor.
The edict ordered the ministers to discuss it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
举议曰 《春秋》鲁闵公无子，庶兄僖公代立，其子文公遂跻僖于闵上。
孔子讥之，书曰：有事于太庙，跻僖公。
《传》曰：逆祀也。
及定公正其序，经曰从祀先公，为万世法也。
今殇帝在先，于秩为父，顺帝在后，于亲为子，先后之义不可改，昭穆之序不可乱。
吕勃议是也 太后下诏从之。
迁光禄勋，会遭母忧去职，后拜光禄大夫。
建和三年卒。朝廷以举清公亮直，方欲以为宰相，深痛惜之。
乃诏先光禄勋、汝南太守曰 昔在前世，求贤如渴，封墓轼闾，以光贤哲。
故公叔见诔，翁归蒙述，所以昭忠厉俗，作范后昆。
故光禄大夫周举，性侔夷、鱼，忠逾随、管，前授牧守，及还纳言，出入京辇，有钦哉之绩，在禁闱有密静之风。
予录乃勋，用登九列。
方欲式序百官，亮协三事，不永夙终，用乖远图。
朝廷愍悼，良为怆然。
《诗》不云乎：肇敏戎功，用锡尔祉。
其令将大夫以下到丧发日复会吊。
加赐钱十万，以旌委蛇素丝之节焉 子勰。
勰字巨胜，少尚玄虚，以父任为郎，自免归家。
父故吏河南召夔为郡将，卑身降礼，致敬于勰。
勰耻交报之，因杜门自绝。
后太太守举孝廉，复以疾去。
时梁冀贵盛，被其征命者，莫敢不应，唯勰前后三辟，竟不能屈。
后举贤良方正，不应。
又公车征，玄纁备礼，固辞废疾。
常隐处窜身，慕老聃清静，杜绝人事，巷生荆棘，十有馀岁。
至延熹二年，乃开门延宾，游谈宴乐，及秋而梁冀诛，年终而勰卒，时年五十。
translation: 
Zhou Ju said: During the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Min of Lu had no children, and his concubine brother, Duke Xi, took over the throne. His son, Duke Wen, ranked Duke Xi above Duke Min.
Confucius ridiculed this matter and said in the Spring and Autumn Annals: If something happens in the Ancestral Temple, he will be promoted to Duke Xi.
"Zuo Zhuan" says: This is an inverted sacrifice.
It was not until Dinggong that this order was corrected. The "Spring and Autumn Annals" scripture says: "Sacrifice to the ancestors." He corrected the positions of Duke Min and Duke Xi. A teacher for all generations.
Now Emperor Shang is first, and he is the father according to the order, Emperor Shun is next, and he is the son according to his relatives. The righteousness of succession cannot be changed, and the order of Zuo Zhao and You Mu cannot be disturbed.
Lu Bo is right. The Queen Mother issued an edict and agreed.
He was promoted to Guangluxun, and resigned when his mother died. Later, he was awarded the title of Guanglu Doctor.
Zhou Ju passed away in the third year of Jianhe's reign. The imperial court believed that Zhou Ju was an upright and upright man, and was preparing to appoint him as prime minister. It was deeply saddened and regretful to see his death.
So he issued an edict to Guang Luxun, the prefect of Runan, saying: In the past life, I was thirsty for talents. King Wu entered the Yin Dynasty and sealed Bigan's tomb, and Shi Shang Ronglu.
Ban Gu said: The old man returned to Chengfeng, and the emperor raised his voice. They are all to demonstrate loyalty, encourage customs, and set an example for future generations.
The late Guanglu doctor Zhou Ju was as noble in character as Boyi and Shi Yu, and his loyalty exceeded that of Suihui and Guan Zhong. He was a local official, and later became an adviser to the court and traveled to and from the capital. His achievements are worthy of admiration. There is a cautious and quiet style in the government.
I narrated his meritorious deeds and listed him as the Nine Ministers.
Just when I was thinking of taking charge of all officials, coordinating moral integrity, and making use of health and welfare, he unfortunately died young and my ambitious plan could not be realized.
The court mourned and was extremely sad.
Didn't "Poetry" say it? Hurry up and tell me your merits and bless you.
Order the generals to come down to the day of mourning, and then gather together to mourn.
He was given an additional 100,000 yuan to show his integrity and impartiality. He has a son, Zhou Xie.
◆Zhou Xie's biography, Zhou Xie's courtesy name is Jusheng. When he was young, he liked the study of Xuanxu. Because of his father's relationship, he became a man. Resign yourself and go home.
His father's old subordinate, Henan, summoned Kui as a county general and showed his respect to Zhou Xie with humility and courtesy.
Zhou Xie thought it was shameful to associate with him and secluded himself from him behind closed doors.
Later, the eunuch promoted him as Xiaolian, but he refused to leave because of his illness.
At this time, Liang Ji was so powerful that those who were conscripted by him did not dare to respond. Only Zhou Xie, who was conscripted three times before and after, did not surrender to him after all.
Later, he promoted virtuous and upright people, but he should not do so.
He was also recruited on the bus, and money and silk were used to prepare gifts, and he said goodbye because of his illness.
He often lives in secluded places, enviing me for being quiet and inactive, not contacting anyone. The alley where I have lived for more than ten years is full of thorns.
It was not until the second year of Yanxi that he opened the door to receive guests, chat and have fun. In the autumn, Liang Ji was killed. At the end of the year, Zhou Xie died at the age of fifty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
蔡邕以为知命。
自勰曾祖父扬至勰孙恂，六世一身，皆知名云。
黄琼字世英，江夏安陆人，魏郡太守香之子也。
香在《文苑传》。
琼初以父任为太子舍人，辞病不就。
遭父忧，服阕，五府俱辟，连年不应。
永建中，公卿多荐琼者，于是与会稽贺纯、广汉杨厚俱公车征。
琼至纶氏，称疾不进。
有司劾不敬，诏下县以礼慰遣，遂不得已。
先是，征聘处士多不称望，李固素慕于琼，乃以书逆遗之曰：闻已度伊、洛，近在万岁亭，岂即事有渐，将顺王命乎。
盖君子谓伯夷隘，柳下惠不恭，故传曰 不夷不惠，可否之间 。
盖圣贤居身之所珍也。
诚遂欲枕山栖谷，拟亦巢、由，斯则可矣。若当辅政济民，今其时也。
自生民以来，善政少而乱俗多，必待尧、舜之君，此为志士终无时矣。
常闻语曰 峣峣者易缺，皦皦者易污 《阳春》之曲，和者必寡，盛名之下，其实难副。
近鲁阳樊君，被征初至，朝廷设坛席，犹待神明。
虽无大异，而言行所守无缺。
而毁谤布流，应时折减者，岂非观听望深，声名太盛乎。
自顷征聘之士，胡元安、薛孟尝、朱仲昭、顾季鸿等，其功业皆无所采，是故俗论皆言处士纯盗虚声。
愿先生弘此远谟，令众人叹服，一雪此言耳。
琼至，即拜议郎，稍迁尚书仆射。
初，琼随父在台阁，习见故事。
及后居职，达练官曹，争议朝堂，莫能抗夺。
时连有灾异，琼上疏顺帝曰 间者以来，卦位错谬，寒燠相干，蒙气数兴，日暗月散。
translation: 
Cai Yong believed that he knew destiny.
From Zhou Xie's great-grandfather Zhou Yang to Zhou Xie's grandson Zhou Xun, they were all only sons for six generations, and they were all famous.
◆Huang Qiong's biography, Huang Qiong's courtesy name is Shiying, a native of Anlu County, Jiangxia County, and the son of Huang Xiang, the prefect of Wei County.
Huang Xiang in "Wenyuan Biography".
At first, Huang Qiong was appointed as the prince's successor because of his father's relationship, but refused to take up the post due to illness.
When his father passed away and the period of mourning expired, he was summoned by all the five governments, but he did not respond for several years.
During the Yongjian period, many ministers recommended Huang Qiong, so Huang Qiong, He Chun of Kuaiji, and Yang Hou of Guanghan were all recruited.
Huang Qiong went to Lunshi but refused to go because he was ill.
Officials reported that he was disrespectful to the emperor, and the emperor issued an edict to the county, ordering him to comfort him with courtesy and send him away. Huang Qiong had no choice but to accept the call.
Most of the virgins recruited in the past were not prestigious. Li Gu usually admired Huang Qiong, so he wrote to him in advance: I heard that you have crossed the Yishui and Luoshui rivers and are close to the Wansui Pavilion. Is it because you are delaying your departure to obey the emperor's order?
Gentlemen say that Boyi is narrow-minded and Liu Xiahui is disrespectful. "The Biography" says: Don't be as narrow-minded as Boyi, and don't be as humble and humiliating as Liu Xiahui. It's just a compromise.
This is the treasure of a saint!
If you really want to live in seclusion in the mountains and forests and learn from Chao Fu and Xu You, that's fine; if you want to enter politics and do something for the people, now is the time.
Since the beginning of mankind, there have been few times of peace and prosperity and many times of chaos. If we have to wait until the kings of Yao and Shun are born to do things, then we will never have the opportunity to be an aspiring person.
I once heard: Tall things are easy to break; white things are easy to stain. The song "Yangchun" is rarely sung in harmony, and it is difficult to live up to its reputation.
Recently, Fan Jun of Luyang had just arrived after being recruited. The court set up an altar to welcome him as if he were a god.
Although he has no special talents, there are no shortcomings in his words and deeds.
However, the popularity of slander has been reduced in due course. Isn't it because the officials and the people have too high expectations of watching and hearing, and the reputation is too great?
The recent recruits such as Hu Yuanan, Xue Mengchang, Zhu Zhongzhao, Gu Jihong, etc. have no merits in their achievements, so current public opinion says that all virgins have stolen false reputations.
I hope that Mr. Xi will carry forward his lofty plans and win everyone's respect, and wash away these words that steal a false reputation!
When Huang Qiong arrived at the court, he was awarded the title of Yilang and was slightly promoted to Minister of Public Affairs.
Previously, Huang Qiong was in Shangshu Province with his father, familiar with old historical news.
When he served in the court, he was very capable in handling government affairs. No one could win against him in any debate in the court.
At that time, there were continuous disasters. Huang Qiong went to Emperor Shushun and said: Recently, the hexagram positions have been out of order, hot and cold have invaded each other, Yin Qi has repeatedly appeared, the sun has no light, and the moon is unclear.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
原之天意，殆不虚然。
陛下宜开石室，案《河》、《洛》，外命史官，悉条上永建以前至汉初灾异，与永建以后讫于今日，孰为多少。
又使近臣儒者参考政事，数见公卿，察问得失。
诸无功德者，宜皆斥黜。
臣前颇陈灾眚，并荐光禄大夫樊英、太中大夫薛包及会稽贺纯、广汉杨厚，未蒙御省。伏见处士巴郡黄错、汉阳任棠，年皆耆耋，有作者七人之志。
宜更见引致，助崇大化 于是有诏公车征错等。三年，大旱。琼复上疏曰 昔鲁僖遇旱，以六事自让，躬节俭，闭女谒，放谗佞者十三人，诛税民受货者九人，退舍南郊，天立大雨。
今亦宜顾省政事，有所损阙，务存质俭，以易民听。
尚方御府，息除烦费。
明敕近臣，使遵法度，如有不移，示以好恶。
数见公卿，引纳儒士，访以政化，使陈得失。
又囚徒尚积，多致死亡，亦足以感伤和气，招降灾旱。
若改敝从善，择用嘉谋，则灾消福至矣 书奏，引见德阳殿，使中常侍以琼奏书属主者施行。
自帝即位以后，不行籍田之礼。琼以国之大典不宜久废，上疏奏
自古圣帝哲王，莫不敬恭明祀，增致福祥，故必躬郊庙之礼，亲籍田之勤，以先群萌，率劝农功。昔周宣王不籍千亩，虢文公以为大讥，卒有姜戎之难，终损中兴之名。
窃见陛下遵稽古之鸿业，体虔肃以应天，顺时奉元，怀柔百神，朝夕触尘埃于道路，昼暮聆庶政以恤人。
虽《诗》咏成汤之不怠遑，《书》美文王之不暇食，诚不能加。
今庙祀适阕，而祈谷洁斋之事，近在明日。
臣恐左右之心，不欲屡动圣躬，以为亲耕之礼，可得而废。
translation: 
Seeking God's will is probably not accidental.
The emperor should open the stone chamber, consult the "Heluo" book, and order the historian to compare all the disasters and disasters from before Yongjian to the early Han Dynasty, and compare them with those after Yongjian to today.
He also asked the Confucian scholars who were close to him to refer to political affairs, and summoned many ministers to visit and inquire about gains and losses.
Those who have no merit or virtue should be dismissed or demoted.
I have previously made a statement about the disaster, and recommended Dr. Fan Ying of Guang, Dr. Xue Bao of Taizhong, He Chun of Kuaiji, and Yang Hou of Guanghan, but they were not accepted. Huang Cuo of Bajun and Rentang of Hanyang, who are both in their sixties or seventies, have the ambitions of Boyi, Shuqi, Yuzhong, Yiyi, Zhu Zhang, Liuxiahui, and Shaolian. They should be received and appointed to help promote political reform.
So the imperial edict was issued to recruit Huang Cuo and others. Three years later, there was a severe drought. Huang Qiong wrote again: Once upon a time, Duke Xi of Lu was hit by a drought. Duke Xi blamed himself for six sins, practiced frugality, and was not close to women. He banished thirteen bad guys who were flatterers and slanderers, killed nine who were corrupt and took bribes, and retreated to the southern suburbs. It rained heavily immediately.
Now we should examine political affairs to see if there are any improper measures. We must be practical and frugal to change people's views on the government.
Shangfang Yufu wants to eliminate unnecessary expenses.
Tell your neighbors clearly to abide by the laws and disciplines, and if they don't listen, you must look good to them.
It is necessary to meet more ministers and high officials, quote Confucian scholars, ask for political enlightenment, and ask them to state the gains and losses of the government.
In addition, there are too many prisoners in prison and they are not dealt with, which often leads to death. It can also express feelings about the harmony of heaven and earth. Bring about drought.
If we change our ways and adopt good policies, natural disasters will be eliminated and a peaceful age will come. The emperor summoned Huang Qiong's memorial to the Deyang Palace and ordered Chang Shi to take Huang Qiong's memorial to the competent authorities for execution.
Since the emperor ascended the throne, the ceremony of plowing farmland by the emperor has not been held. Huang Qiong believes that the country's grand ceremony should not be abandoned for a long time. He wrote in a memorial: "Since ancient times, there are no wise monarchs who have not dedicated their lives to sacrifices to increase happiness and prosperity."
Therefore, we must personally hold rituals in suburban temples, cultivate farmland personally, set an example for the people, and reward farming. In the past, King Xuan of Zhou did not cultivate the farmland himself, and Duke Wen of Guo criticized him for this. Finally, Jiang Rong's rebellion broke out, which damaged Zhongxing's good reputation.
The emperor upholds the great cause of his ancestors, responds to heaven's omens with respect and solemnity, honors the yuan at the right time, sacrifices to the gods, braves the dust on the road in the morning and evening, handles political affairs day and night, and cares for the people.
Although the "Book of Songs" praises Cheng Tang for not being arrogant or excessive, and not daring to neglect it, the "Book of Books" praises King Wen for being at the peak of the sun, not even having time to eat, nor exceeding it.
There is currently a shortage of sacrifices in the ancestral temple, and we are praying for a good harvest and fasting tomorrow.
I'm afraid of the people around the emperor and don't want to disturb you too much. I think the gift of plowing can be abolished.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣闻先王制典，籍田有日，司徒咸戒，司空除坛。
先时五日，有协风之应，王即斋官，飨醴载耒，诚重之也。
自癸巳以来，仍西北风，甘泽不集，寒凉尚结。
迎春东郊，既不躬亲，先农之礼，所宜自勉，以逆和气，以致时风。
《易》曰 君子自强不息 斯其道也。
书奏，帝从之。
顷之，迁尚书令。
琼以前左雄所上孝廉之选，专用儒学文吏，于取士之义，犹有所遗，乃奏增孝悌及能从政者为四科，事竟施行。
又雄前议举吏先试之于公府，又覆之于端门，后尚书张盛奏除此科。
琼复上言 覆试之作，将以澄洗清浊，覆实虚滥，不宜改革 帝乃止。
出为魏郡太守，稍迁太常。
和平中，以选入侍讲禁中。
元嘉元年，迁司空。
桓帝欲褒崇大将军梁冀，使中朝二千石以上会议其礼。
特进胡广、太常羊溥、司隶校尉祝恬、太中大夫边韶等，咸称冀之勋德，其制度赍赏，以宜比周公，锡之山川、土田、附庸。
琼独建议曰 冀前以亲迎之劳，增邑三千，又其子胤亦加封赏。
昔周公辅相成王，制礼作乐，化致太平，是以大启土宇，开地七百。
今诸侯以户邑为制，不以里数为限。
萧何识高祖于泗水，霍光定倾危以兴国，皆益户增封，以显其功。
冀可比邓禹，合食四县，赏赐之差，同于霍光，使天下知赏必当功，爵不越德 朝廷从之。
冀意以为恨。
会以地动策免。复为太仆。
永兴元年，迁司徒，转太尉。
梁冀前后所托辟召，一无所用。
虽有善人而为冀所饰举者，亦不加命。
延熹元年，以日食免。
复为大司农。
明年，梁冀被诛，太尉胡广、司徒韩縯、司空孙朗皆坐阿附免废，复拜琼为太尉。
以师傅之恩，而不阿梁氏，乃封为邟乡侯，邑千户。
琼辞疾让封六七上，言旨恳恻，乃许之。
梁冀既诛，琼首居公位，举奏州郡素行贪污至死徙者十馀人，海内由是翕然望之。
寻而五侯擅权，倾动内外，自度力不能匡，乃称疾不起。
四年，以寇贼免。
其年复为司空。
秋，以地震免。
七年，疾笃，上疏谏曰：其年卒，时年七十九。
translation: 
I heard that the late kings made regulations, and the day when the emperor plowed the farmland was approaching, Situ fasted, and Sikong swept the altar.
Five days ago, with the sign of a gentle breeze, the king went to the Zhai Palace. After offering sacrifices, he used the farm tools. He was extremely cautious.
Since Guisi, the northwest wind has been blowing, good rain never falls, and the cold air never dissipates.
In the eastern suburbs of Yingchun, since there is no one to go there in person, it is appropriate to commend the people, so that we can usher in peace and attract the wind of the times.
"Yi" says that a gentleman is constantly striving for self-improvement. This is the truth.
The memorial was sent and the emperor accepted it.
Soon, Huang Qiong was promoted to minister.
Huang Qiong believed that Zuo Xiong's previous method of selecting filial and honest officials and using Confucian officials was insufficient for selecting scholars. So he petitioned to increase filial piety and those who could serve in politics as four subjects, and all of them were implemented.
Zuo Xiong also proposed that the election of officials should be conducted first in the government examination and then in the Duanmen examination. Later, Zhang Sheng, the minister, petitioned to abolish it.
Huang Qiong said again: The method of reexamination is to clarify the ambiguity and verify hypocrisy and inaccuracies, and should not be reformed. The emperor therefore did not abolish this subject.
He was transferred to the prefect of Wei County and moved to Taichang.
During the Heping years, he was selected into the palace to give lectures to the emperor.
In the first year of Yuanjia, he was promoted to Sikong.
Emperor Huan wanted to commend the general Liang Ji, so he sent more than two thousand stones to the court to discuss the etiquette of commendation.
Special Jin Hu Guang, Taichang Yangpu, Sili Colonel Zhu Tian, ​​Taizhong doctor Bian Shao, etc. all praised Liang Ji's meritorious deeds and believed that the ceremonial rewards for praise should be compared to those given by Zhou Gong to mountains, rivers, fields, and vassals.
Huang Qiongdu suggested: Liang Jiqian was granted an additional three thousand cities for his contribution to welcoming the emperor in person, and he also increased the reward for his son Liang Yin.
In the past, the Duke of Zhou assisted the king, made rituals and music, and made the world peaceful. Therefore, he opened up a large earth and opened 700 lands.
Nowadays, the feudal lords are based on households and towns, not on the basis of miles.
Xiao He met Gaozu in Surabaya, and Huo Guang saved the country from danger and revived the country. They all benefited households and increased their titles to highlight their achievements.
Liang Ji can compare with Deng Yu, he can live in four counties, and his rewards can be the same as Huo Guang, so that the world will know that rewards must be commensurate with his merits, and his title should not exceed his virtues. The court accepted it.
Liang Ji held a grudge.
At the time of the earthquake, the imperial edict removed him from the post of Sikong and appointed him as a servant again.
In the first year of Yongxing, he was promoted to Situ and transferred to Taiwei.
Liang Ji repeatedly asked Huang Qiong to recommend and recruit, but none of them was appointed.
Although there are good people who are recommended by Liang Ji, he will not appoint them.
In the first year of Yanxi, he was dismissed due to solar eclipse.
Soon, he was appointed as Da Si Nong.
The next year, Liang Ji was killed. Taiwei Hu Guang, Situ Hanbin, and Sikong Sunlang were all dismissed for flattery and attachment to Liang Ji, and Huang Qiong was appointed as Taiwei.
Because he was a master, and he did not flatter Liang Ji, he was granted the title of Marquis of Kangnan Township, with a thousand households in the city.
Huang Qiong resigned six or seven times due to illness and spoke sincerely, and finally got the emperor's approval.
After Liang Ji was executed, Huang Qiong ranked first in the court. The more than ten people who reported corruption in prefectures and counties to death all hope that Huang Qiong will rectify the government's affairs soon.
However, soon there were five princes who took over power, and there was turmoil inside and outside the court. Huang Qiong himself thought that he had no power to correct the situation, so he excused himself from work because of illness.
In the fourth year of Yanxi's reign, he was dismissed from office due to harassment by bandits.
This year he was appointed Sikong again.
In the autumn, he was dismissed from office due to an earthquake.
In the seventh year of Yanxi's reign, Huang Qiong was seriously ill. Shangshu advised him: "I heard that the emperor's task is to strengthen his spirit, and the king's task is to strengthen his government."


Chunk 13: 
original: 
赠车骑将军，谥曰忠侯。
孙琬。琬字子琰。
少失父。早而辩慧。
祖父琼，初为魏郡太守，建和元年正月日食，京师不见而琼以状闻。
太后诏问所食多少，琼思其对而未知所况。
琬年七岁，在傍，曰 何不言日食之馀，如月之初 琼大惊，即以其言应诏，而深奇爱之。
后琼为司徒，琬以公孙拜童子郎，辞病不就，知名京师。
时司空盛允有疾，琼遣琬候问，会江夏上蛮贼事副府，允发书视毕，微戏琬曰 江夏大邦，而蛮多士少 琬奉手对曰 蛮夷猾夏，责在司空 因拂衣辞去，允甚奇之。
稍迁五官中郎将。
时陈蕃为光禄勋，深相敬待，数与议事。
旧制，光禄举三署郎，以高功久次才德尤异者为茂才四行。
时权富子弟多以人事得举，而贫约守志者以穷退见遗，京师为之谣曰 欲得不能，光禄茂才 于是琬、蕃同心，显用志士，平原刘醇、河东朱山、蜀郡殷参等并以才行蒙举。
蕃、琬遂为权富郎所见中伤，事下御史中丞王畅、侍御史刁韪。韪、畅素重蕃、琬，不举其事，而左右复陷以朋党，畅坐左转议郎而免蕃官，琬、韪俱禁锢。
韪字子荣，彭城人。
后陈蕃被征，而言事者多讼韪，复拜议郎，迁尚书。
在朝有鲠直节，出为鲁、东海二郡相。
性抗厉，有明略，所在称神。
常以法度自整，家人莫见墯容焉。
translation: 
Therefore, when a king is in a high position, he must be self-possessed and must not be uneasy; when in danger, he must be confident and capable and must not fail to do so.
If you are not confident, you will fall; if you are not strong enough, you will be in danger.
Therefore, when a saint rises to the throne, he must put virtue and righteousness first, and when facing danger, he must rely on the wise as his strength.
Tang Yao took Dehua as the leader and Ji and Qi as the strength. Higher and higher, moving and more stable, this is the reason why the holy kings in the past were able to guard all nations and protect the country forever!
In the past, the emperor of the Han Dynasty obeyed the heaven and obeyed the people, used force to become king, wiped out the Qin Dynasty and Xiang Yu's forces, founded the country through revolution, and applied virtue to future generations. When it came to Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, the emperor's ways were not consistent.
The politics became more and more chaotic day by day, allowing traitors and flatterers to rule the country, and relatives and relatives acting haphazardly. They did not value benevolence and righteousness, and did not use virtuous assistants. Finally, the Western Han Dynasty collapsed and the Western Han Dynasty was destroyed. The pillars of heaven collapsed, and the ghosts and gods of the people were in mourning. Fortunately, the emperor and heaven took care of them, and the fire virtues returned to glory.
Emperor Guangwu was born as a holy warrior, inherited the great unification, and revived the Han Dynasty. The foundation is built in danger and established in difficult times.
Select wise men among ordinary people, and reward meritorious ones when there is no sign of the world.
In war, etiquette and justice were also emphasized, and in times of chaos, moral education was also followed.
In this way, it will be able to achieve great success without falling, be able to be in danger without falling, revive the great cause, start the construction of Zhongxing, be blessed with eight poles, and have an endless reputation. In the middle ages, the prosperity gradually declined.
The emperor was originally in a vassal country and ascended to the throne. People in the world looked forward to it and said that the world would see peace.
However, since taking office, no good political measures have been seen.
The Liang Ji family had sole power, and the court was filled with eunuchs. The titles were awarded one after another, the official positions were promoted one after another, the court was in chaos, and the ministers and pastors of the high school were selected and appointed by their disciples and followers. Treasures such as feather tooth leather, pearls and gold were piled up in their rooms, and they were rich and powerful in the palace.
Those who speak of them will definitely be exterminated, and those who rely on them will definitely be promoted and rich.
The loyal ministers kept their mouths shut for fear of death, and the ten thousand men did not dare to speak for fear of causing trouble.
Blocking the emperor's ears and eyes made him a deaf and blind monarch. The late lieutenants Li Gu and Du Qiao were loyal and outspoken, assisted the government with virtue, and worried about the country. They forgot everything about themselves and repaid them with death.
He was killed just for stating state affairs.
The wise and foolish are heartbroken, and the whole world is filled with sorrow and fear. Li Yun, the former White Horse Commander, accused the eunuchs of committing crimes worthy of execution. This was all because everyone had this idea to save the dangerous government.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
琬被废弃几二十年。至光和末，大尉杨赐上书荐琬有拨乱之才，由是征拜议郎，擢为青州刺史，迁侍中。
中平初，出为右扶风，征拜将作大芹、少府、太仆。又为豫州牧。
时寇贼陆梁，州境雕残，琬讨击平之，威声大震。
政绩为天下表，封关内侯。
及董卓秉政，以琬名臣，征为司徒，迁太仆，更封阳泉乡侯。
卓议迁都长安，琬与司徒杨彪同谏不从。
琬退而驳议之曰 昔周公营洛邑以宁姬，光武卜东郡以隆汉，天之所启，神之所安。
大业既定，岂宜妄有迁动，以亏四海之望 时人惧卓暴怒，琬必及害，固谏之。琬对曰 昔白公作乱于楚，屈庐冒刃而前。
崔杼弑君于齐，晏婴不惧其盟。
吾虽不德，诚慕古人之节 琬竟坐免。
卓犹敬其名德旧族，不敢害。
后与杨彪同拜光禄大夫，及徙西都，转司隶校尉，与司徒王允同谋诛卓。及卓将李傕、郭汜攻破长安，遂收琬下狱死，时年五十二。
translation: 
Du Zhong, Hongnong, knew that Li Yun's words were right and could be implemented, but he was afraid that Li Yun would be convicted for his loyalty, so he wrote a letter and requested to be executed on the same day as Li Yun. I want to impress the emperor and hope that Li Yun can be spared death.
As a result, Li Yun was killed innocently, and Du Zhong also died because of his petition. The world is the most painful and the most resentful.
Therefore, people in the government and the public do not dare to be loyal to the emperor. Once upon a time, Zhao Jianzi killed Dou Mingdu, and Confucius went to the Yellow River and returned. He was hurt when the good man was killed and Zhao Jianzi was not seen. Oh, the nest is covered with eggs and broken, the phoenix does not fly, the sacrifice is stillborn, the unicorn does not come.
Things react to each other, and this must be the case.
Shangshu Zhou Yong, formerly Peiling, served Liang Ji for a long time. Because of Liang Ji's power, he waved the flag and shouted for Liang Ji's power. He was punished for the crime and was appointed to the superior position.
Seeing that Liang Ji was about to be defeated, he attacked Liang Ji on the surface and expressed his loyalty to the emperor. In this way, his treacherous plan succeeded and he was granted the title of marquis.
In addition, the Huangmen cooperated with evil and formed cliques with each other. Since Liang Ji took power, he followed each other, made plans day and night, and helped each other with evil. When Liang Ji was about to be executed, he had nothing to do, but he remembered Liang Ji's crimes and invited him to be rewarded.
The emperor did not clarify the truth, distinguished the true from the false, and sealed them at the same time as the loyal ministers, mixing the red and purple into one color, the white and the black, throwing gold and jade into the gravel, and smashing the king's jade into the soil.
When everyone heard this, everyone sighed with indignation. Once upon a time, Zengzi was a filial son, but his loving mother threw herself into a tree and ran away after listening to slander. Boqi, the most virtuous, was eventually exiled.
Slander and flattery can reach no matter how high the place is; party suppression can stir up ripples no matter how deep the water is.
Don't be careless! I am stubborn and foolish. I have relied on the country's blessings for generations. I am insignificant and my position is important. Although I am diligent, I cannot compensate for my sins.
However, the fear of death makes the guilt even deeper. Therefore, I dare to state what I shouldn't say at the moment of death, hoping that one ten thousandth of it can help the emperor. Then I will have no regrets under Jiuquan. In this year, Huang Qiong died at the age of seventy-nine. He was given a gift to the general of chariots and cavalry, and his posthumous title was Zhonghou. Sun Huangwan.


