Chunk 0: 
original: 
郑太字公业，河南开封人，司农众之曾孙也。
少有少略。灵帝末，知天下将乱，阴交结豪杰。
家富于财，有田四百顷，而食常不足，名闻山东。
初，举孝廉，三府辟，公车征，皆不就。
及大将军何进辅政，征用名士，以公业为尚书待郎，迁待御史。
进将诛阉官，欲召并州牧董卓为助。
公业谓进曰： 董卓强忍寡义，志欲无厌。
若借之朝政，授以大事。将恣凶欲，必危朝廷。
明公以亲德之重，据阿衡之权，秉意独断，诛除有罪，诚不宜假卓以为资援也。
且事留变生，殷鉴不远。
又为陈时务之所急数事。
进不能用，乃弃官去。
谓颍川人旬攸曰： 何公未易辅也。
进寻见害，卓果作乱。
公业等与侍中伍琼、卓长史何颙共说卓，以袁绍为勃海太守，以发山东之谋。
及义兵起，卓乃会公卿议，大发卒讨之，群僚莫敢忤旨。
公业恐其众多益横，凶强难制，独曰： 夫政在德，不在众也。
卓不悦，曰： 如卿此言，兵为无用邪？
公业惧，乃诡词更对曰：非谓无用，以为山东不足加大兵耳。
translation: 
◆Zheng Taichuan, also named Gongye, was born in Kaifeng, Henan. The great-grandson of Sinong Zheng Zhong.
He was talented when he was young. In the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, Mrs. Zheng knew that the world would be in chaos, so she secretly made friends with heroes.
His family was very wealthy, with 400 hectares of land, but he often had no food to eat. He was very famous, and everyone in Shandong knew about him.
At the beginning, he was promoted to Xiaolian, and he was recruited from the three government offices and buses, but he was not accepted.
After the general He Jin assisted in the administration, he recruited famous people and appointed Zheng Gongye as the Minister of the Secretariat and promoted to the Censor.
He Jin was preparing to kill the eunuchs and wanted to recruit Dong Zhuo, the governor of Bingzhou, as his assistant.
Zheng Gongye said to He Jin: Dong Zhuo is violent, cruel, unloyal, and very ambitious.
If you lend him the government affairs and grant him important tasks, you will be able to fulfill your evil desires and endanger the court.
With your important position as a pro-German, you have the authority to guide the emperor and preside over state affairs. Chengyi is arbitrary and punishes the guilty, so he really shouldn't use Dong Zhuo's power as a back-up.
And things change over time, and lessons are never far away.
Why enter Chen's top priority?
He Jin couldn't use it, so he abandoned his official position and left.
He said to Xun You, a native of Yingchuan: Mr. He is not easy to help.
He Jin was soon killed, and Dong Zhuo indeed rebelled.
Zheng Gongye and others, together with his servant Wu Qiong and Dong Zhuo's chief historian He, jointly talked about Dong Zhuo and appointed Yuan Shao as the prefect of Bohai to carry out Shandong's plan.
When the rebels arose, Dong Zhuo convened a discussion with the ministers and sent out a large army to attack the rebels. All the officials did not dare to violate Dong Zhuo's will.
Zheng Gongye was worried that if Dong Zhuo had more soldiers, he would become more arrogant and vicious and difficult to control. He said: "Ruling a country depends on virtue, not on having many soldiers."
Dong Zhuo was unhappy and said: According to what you say, soldiers are useless?
Zheng Gongye became frightened, so he made up a lie and said to Dong Zhuo: "I'm not saying that soldiers are useless, I just mean that Shandong doesn't have enough soldiers."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
如有不信，试为明公略陈其要。
今山东合谋，州郡连结，人庶相动，非不强盛，然光武以来，中国无警，百姓优逸，忘战日久。
仲尼有言： 不教人战，是谓弃之。
其众虽多，不能为害。
袁本初公卿子弟，生处京师。
张孟卓东平长者，坐不窥堂。
孔公绪清谈高论，嘘枯吹生。
并无军旅之才，执锐之干，临锋决敌，非公之俦。
三也。
山东之士，素乏精悍。未有勇贲之勇，庆忌之捷，聊城之守，良、平之谋，可任以偏师，责以成功。
四也。
就有其人，而尊卑无序，王爵不如，若恃众怙力，将各棋峙，以观成败，不肯同心共胆，与齐进退。
五也。
关西诸郡，颇习兵事，自顷以来，数与羌战，妇女犹戴戟操矛，挟弓负矢，况其壮勇之士，以当妄战之人乎！
其胜可必。
六也，且天下强勇，百姓所畏者，有并、凉之人，及匈奴、屠各、湟中义从、西羌八种，而明公拥之，以为爪牙，譬驱虎兕以赴犬羊。
translation: 
If you don't believe it, I can give you a rough idea.
Now Shandong is colluding, the states and counties are connected, and the people are united, it cannot be said that it is not strong. However, since Guangwu, the country has been safe and sound, the people have lived a prosperous life, and have long forgotten about the war.
Confucius said: To teach the people to fight without educating them is to abandon the people.
Therefore, although there are many of them, they are not enough to cause harm. This is one thing.
You were born in Xizhou and became a general of the country at a young age. You are familiar with military affairs and have participated in many battles. You are famous in the world. Everyone is afraid of you and obeys you. These are two.
Zhang Mengzhuo is a loyal elder in Dongping, and he doesn't look around.
Kong Gongxu was a clear talker, impartial and impartial.
These people have no military talent or experience in fighting. They are not your opponents in a decisive battle. This is three.
Talents in Shandong are never brave.
We don't have the bravery of Meng Ben, the agility of Qingji, the solid defense of Liaocheng, or the strategies of Zhang Liang and Chen Ping.
This is four.
Even if there are people who can be appointed, there is no distinction between superiority and inferiority, and the title of the country is not given to them. They rely on the number of people and their strength. They will stand alone and wait to see success or failure, and are unwilling to work together to advance and retreat together.
This is five.
Most of the counties in Guanxi are familiar with military affairs. In recent years, they have fought against the Qiang many times. Women also wear halberds and spears, and carry bows and arrows. How much more brave soldiers to resist untrained people!
Victory is inevitable.
This is six. Moreover, among the powerful and brave people in the world, those who are afraid of the common people are the Bing and Liang people, as well as the Xiongnu, Tuge, Huangzhong Yicong, and Xiqiang. You have them as your minions, just like driving tigers to attack dogs and sheep, and they are invincible.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
七也。
又明公将帅，皆中表腹心，周旅日久，恩信淳著，忠诚可任，智谋可恃。
以胶固之众，当解合之势，犹以烈风扫彼枯叶。
八也。
夫战有三亡，以乱攻理者亡，以邪攻正者亡，以逆攻顺者亡。
今明公秉国平正，讨灭宦竖，忠义克立。
以此三德，待彼三亡，奉辞伐罪，谁敢御之！
九也。
东州郑玄学该古今，北海邴原清高直亮，皆儒生所仰，群士楷式。
彼诸将若询其计画，足知强弱。
且燕、赵、齐、梁非不盛也，终灭于泰；吴、楚七国非不众也，卒败荥阳。
况今德政赫赫，股肱惟衣，彼岂赞成其谋，造乱长寇哉？
其不然。
十也，若其所陈少有可采，无事征兵以惊天下，使患役之民相聚为非，弃德恃众，自亏威重。
卓乃悦，以公业为将军，使统诸军讨击关东。
translation: 
This is seven.
Moreover, your generals are all cousins ​​​​and are your confidants. They have been with you for a long time. They are kind and trustworthy, loyal and trustworthy, and your intelligence can be relied on.
With a united army, we can defeat the scattered enemy like a strong wind sweeping away dead leaves.
This is eight.
We know that there are three kinds of destruction in war: destruction by using chaos to attack reason, destruction by using evil to attack righteousness, and destruction by using counterattack and obedience.
Now you govern the country with justice, destroy the eunuchs, and your loyalty has been established.
Use these three virtues to kill the three of them, and follow the orders of the imperial court to attack the guilty ones. Who dares to resist!
This is nine.
The knowledge of Zheng Xuan in Dongzhou includes modern and ancient times, and Bingyuan in Beihai is honest and upright. They are all admired by Confucian scholars and are models for all scholars.
If their generals ask Zheng Xuan and Bing Yuan about their plans, they can know which one is stronger and which one is weaker.
In the past, Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Liang were not weak, but they were eventually destroyed by Qin; Wu and Chu were not weak, and they were finally defeated by Zhou Yafu in Xingyang.
What's more, now that the government is clearly virtuous and the virtuous are assisted, will Zheng Xuan and Bing Yuan agree with their plan to create rebellion and encourage banditry?
Definitely not.
This is ten. If what I said can be adopted at all, it is that we should not conscript troops to disturb the world and make the people who are afraid of conscription gather together to commit evil. If you don't abandon your virtue and rely on the public, you will lose your dignity.
Dong Zhuo was happy. Make Zheng Gongye the general and lead all armies to attack Guandong.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
或说卓曰： 郑公业智略过人，而结谋外寇，今资之士马，就其党与，窃为明公惧之。
卓乃收还其兵，留拜议郎。
卓既迁都长安，天下饥乱，士大夫多不得其命。
而公业家有余资，日引宾客高会倡乐，所赡救者甚众。
乃与何颙、荀攸共谋杀卓。
事泄，颙等被执，公业脱身自武关走，东归袁术。
术上以为杨州刺。
未至官，道卒，年四十一。
孔融字文举，鲁国人，孔子二十世孙也。
七世祖霸，为元帝师，位至侍中。
父宙，太山都尉。
融幼有异才。
年十岁，随父诣京师。
时，河南尹李膺以简重自居，不妄接士宾客，敕外自非当世名人及与通家，皆不得白。
融欲观其人，故造膺门。语门者曰： 我是李君通家子弟。
门者言之。
膺请融，问曰： 高明祖父尝与仆有恩旧乎？ 融曰： 然。
先君孔子与君先人李老君同德比义，而相师友，则融与君累世通家。
translation: 
Someone said to Dong Zhuo: Zheng Gongye is very resourceful and has conspired with foreign invaders. Now giving him an army is helping his party members. I think it is terrible.
Dong Zhuo then took back the troops given to Zheng Gongye and appointed him as Yilang.
Dong Zhuo moved the capital to Chang'an, and there was famine and turmoil in the world, and many scholar-bureaucrats were unable to survive.
But Zheng Gongye's family had plenty of money, and he invited guests to have fun every day. He saved many people.
He, He and Xun You jointly planned to kill Dong Zhuo.
When the incident was leaked out and the others were arrested, Zheng Gongye escaped from Wuguan and returned east to Yuan Shu.
Yuan Shu made a memorial to appoint him as the governor of Yangzhou.
He did not take office and died on the road at the age of forty-one.
◆Biography of Kong Rong, Kong Rong was a native of Lu and the 20th grandson of Confucius.
Kong Ba, the seventh generation ancestor, was the disciple of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty and served as an official.
His father, Kong Zhou, was the captain of Taishan.
Kong Rong had special talents when he was a child.
At the age of ten, he went to the capital with his father.
At that time, Henan Yin and Li Ying kept themselves simple and strict, and did not receive scholar-bureaucrats and guests casually. They were not allowed to inform anyone who was not a contemporary celebrity or a family with whom they had known each other for generations.
Kong Rong wanted to see what kind of person Li Ying was, so he went to Li Ying's house and knocked on the door. The person who answered the door said, "I am a descendant of Li Juntong's family."
The gatekeeper told Li Ying that Li Ying asked Kong Rong to meet him.
Question: Did Grandfather Gao Ming ever have any friendship with me? Kong Rong said: Yes.
The ancestor Confucius and your ancestor Li Laojun have the same virtues and synonyms, and they have a mentor-friend relationship. Then, I, Kong Rong, and you have been friends for generations.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
众坐莫不叹息。
太中大夫陈炜后至，坐中以告炜。
炜曰： 夫人小而聪了，大未必奇。
融应声曰： 观君所言，将不早惠乎？ 膺大笑曰： 高明必为伟器。
年十三，丧父，哀悴过毁，扶而后起，州里归其孝。
性好学，博涉多该览。
亡抵于褒，不遇。时融年二六，俭少之而不告。
融见其有窘色，谓曰： 兄虽在外，吾独不能为君主邪？
因留舍之。
后事泄，国相以下，密就掩捕，俭得脱走，遂并收褒、融送狱。
二人未知所坐。
融曰： 保纳舍藏者，融也，当坐之。
褒曰： 彼来求我，非弟之过，请甘其罪。
吏问其母，母曰： 家事任长，妾当其辜。
一门争死，郡县疑不能决，乃上谳之。
translation: 
Everyone sitting here was impressed by it.
Taizhong doctor Chen Wei arrived later, and those present told Chen Wei this.
Chen Wei said: Oh, people are smart when they are young, but they may not be of much use when they grow up.
Kong Rong continued what he said: According to what you said, were you quite smart when you were young? Li Ying laughed and said: You will be very promising in the future.
When Kong Rong was thirteen years old, his father died. He was so grieved that he had to be helped to stand up. The state praised his filial piety.
He has a good nature to learn and is well-read.
Shanyang Zhang Jian was hated by Hou Lan, the official of Zhongchang. Hou Lan concealed his name and sent a memorial to the prefectures and counties to arrest Zhang Jian. Zhang Jian was friends with Kong Rong's brother Kong Bao, so he fled to Kong Bao's home, but Kong Bao was not there.
Kong Rong was sixteen years old at this time. Zhang Jian thought Kong Rong was young and did not tell him. Kong Rong saw Zhang Jian's embarrassed look and said to Zhang Jian: Although my brother has not returned home, can't I be your host?
So Zhang Jian was left to live in his home.
Later, the matter was leaked out, and the Prime Minister and others were secretly arrested, and Zhang Jian was able to escape. So Kong Bao and Kong Rong were arrested and sent to prison.
I don’t know who of the two was convicted.
Kong Rong said: I was the one who sheltered and hid Zhang Jian, and I am the one who is guilty.
Kong Bao said: "It's not my brother's fault that Zhang Jian came to me. It's my fault. I'm willing to do so."
The official asked their mother, who said: "The elders are in charge of the housework, and the blame lies with me."
One sect was fighting to the death, and the county could not make a decision, so it asked the court for instructions.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
诏书竟坐褒焉。
融由是显名，与平原陶丘洪、陈留边让齐声称。州郡礼命，皆不就。
辟司徒杨赐府。
时，隐核官僚之贪浊者，将加贬黜，融多举中官亲族。
尚书畏迫内宠，召掾属诘责之。融陈对罪恶，言无阿挠。
河南尹何进当迁为大将军，杨赐遣融奉谒贺进，不时通，融即夺谒还府，投劾而去。
河南官属耻之，私遣剑客欲追杀融。客有言于进曰： 孔文举有重名，将军若造怨此人，则四方之士引领而去矣。
不如因而礼之，可以示广于天下。
进然之，既拜而辟融，举高第，为侍御史。
与中丞赵舍不同，托病归家。
后辟司空掾，拜中军候。
在职三日，迁虎贲中郎将。
会董卓废立，融每因对答，辄有匡正之言。以忤卓旨，转为议郎。
translation: 
The edict finally convicted Kong Bao.
Kong Rong was famous for this, and he was as famous as Pingyuan Tao Qiuhong and Chen Liubian Rang. He was appointed by the prefectures and counties according to etiquette, but he was not qualified.
Recruit Situ Yang to give his residence.
At that time, he secretly inspected the corrupt elements in the bureaucracy and prepared to demote and remove them. Kong Rong prosecuted most of them as relatives of eunuchs.
The minister was afraid of offending the emperor's favor, so he summoned his officials to question and rebuke them. Kong Rong stated their crimes without any secret.
When He Jin, Yin of Henan Province, was to be promoted to general, Yang Ci sent Kong Rong to congratulate He Jin with his business card. However, without informing him in time, Kong Rong took the invitation back to the palace and went back home, blaming himself.
The officials of Henan Yin thought they had lost face and sent private swordsmen to hunt down Kong Rong. A visitor said to He Jin: Kong Wenju has a great reputation. If the general has a grudge with him, people from all over the world will follow him and flee.
It is better to treat him with courtesy and let everyone in the world know that the general has a broad mind.
He Jin thought it was right, and after being appointed as a general, he conquered Kong Rong, promoted him to a high rank, and became the imperial censor.
Because he was at odds with Zhongcheng Zhao She, he returned home due to illness.
Later he was conscripted as Sikong Peng and awarded the title of Military Marquis.
After three days in office, he was promoted to General of Tiger and Lieutenant Commander.
When Dong Zhuo deposed the Young Emperor and established the Xian Emperor, Kong Rong often corrected his mistakes when answering questions. Therefore, he violated Dong Zhuo's wishes and was transferred to Yilang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时黄巾寇数州，而北海最为贼冲，卓乃讽三府同举融为北海相。
融到郡，收合士民，起兵讲武，驰檄飞翰，引谋州郡。
贼张饶等群辈二十万众从冀州还，融逆击，为饶所败，乃收散兵保朱虚县。
稍复鸠集吏民为黄巾所误者男女四万余人，更置城邑，立学校，表显儒术，荐举贤良郑玄、彭璆、邴原等。
郡人甄子然、临孝存知名早卒，融恨不及之，乃命配食县社。
其余虽一介之善，莫不加礼焉。
郡人无后及四方游士有死亡者，皆为棺具而敛葬之。
时，黄巾复来侵暴，融乃出屯都昌，为贼管亥所围。
融逼急，乃遣东莱太史慈求救于平原相刘备。
备惊曰： 孔北海乃复知天下有刘备邪？
即遣兵三千救之，贼乃散走。
时，袁、曹方盛，而融无所协附。
translation: 
At that time, the Yellow Turbans invaded several states, and Beihai was the place where thieves attacked the most. Dong Zhuo then signaled the three governments to jointly appoint Kong Rong as the Prime Minister of Beihai.
Kong Rong went to the county, summoned the soldiers and people, raised troops and taught martial arts. He not only issued proclamations, but also wrote letters himself, communicating with the prefectures and counties, and planning together.
The thief Zhang Rao and other 200,000 people returned from Jizhou. Kong Rong faced him and was defeated by Zhang Rao. So he gathered scattered soldiers to defend Zhuxu County.
Then he slowly gathered more than 40,000 officials and people, men and women who had been misled by the Yellow Turban, and built cities and schools, praised Confucianism, and recommended virtuous people such as Zheng Xuan, Peng Chu, and Bing Yuan.
Zhen Ziran, a county native, was famous in Linxiaocun. He died young. Kong Rong regretted not seeing him. Ordered to distribute food to the county society.
Even if the others have only a small amount of good deeds, they will not be treated with courtesy.
County residents who had no descendants and travelers from all over the country who died were buried in coffins.
At this time, the Yellow Turbans invaded again. Kong Rong then went to Duchang County and was surrounded by the thief Guan Hai.
Kong Rong was in great danger and sent Donglai Taishi Ci to ask for help from Pingyuan Prime Minister Liu Bei.
Liu Bei said in surprise: Kong Beihai actually knew that there was another Liu Bei in the world.
Three thousand soldiers were immediately sent to rescue him, but the thief escaped because he was scattered.
At that time, Yuan Shao and Cao Cao were very powerful, and Kong Rong did not rely on anyone.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
左丞祖者，称有意谋，劝融有所结纳。
融知绍、操终图汉室，不欲与同，故怒而杀之。
融负有高气，志在靖难，而才疏意广，迄无成功。
在郡六年，刘备表领青州刺史。
建安元年，为袁谭所攻，自春至夏，战士所余裁数百人，流矢雨集，戈矛内接。
融隐几读书，谈笑自若。
城夜陷，乃奔东山，妻、子为谭所虏。
及献帝都许，征融为将作大匠，迁少府。
融乃独议曰： 日磾以上公之尊，秉髦节之使，衔命直指，宁辑东夏，而曲媚奸臣，为所牵率，章表署用，辄使首名，附下罔上，奸以事君。
昔国佐当晋军而不挠，宜僚临白刃而正色。
translation: 
Zuo Chengzu was rich in strategy and advised Kong Rong to join forces with Cao Cao and Yuan Shao.
Kong Rong knew that Yuan Shao and Cao Cao were ultimately trying to usurp the Han Dynasty, and he didn't want to get involved with them, so he killed Zuo Chengzu in a rage.
Kong Rong himself thought that he had a noble spirit and was determined to quell the country's crisis, but he failed because of his limited talents and empty ideas.
After six years in the county, Liu Bei recommended him to concurrently serve as the governor of Qingzhou.
In the first year of Jian'an, he was attacked by Yuan Tan. From spring to summer, there were only a few hundred soldiers left. Arrows came like rain, and the city was already in close combat.
Kong Rong could read a few books and talk and laugh freely.
The city fell at night and he fled to Shandong. His wife was captured by Yuan Tan.
When Emperor Xian arrived, he made Xuchang his capital and recruited Kong Rong as a general to be a great craftsman and promoted to Shaofu.
Every time the emperor visited and summoned his ministers, Kong Rong often made decisions, and the ministers and officials were just in name. In the past, Taifu Ma Rishi was sent to Shandong as an envoy to Huainan. He was dissatisfied with Yuan Shu many times. Yuan Shu despised him, insulted him, and took away his talisman. Ma Rishidan was so worried and angry that he vomited blood and died. Ma Rishidan's funeral was returned to the capital, and the court wanted to arrange a funeral ceremony. Kong Rong said: Ma Rishidan was ordered to handle local affairs directly by relying on his noble status as a prince and the integrity of the emperor. He calmed down Dongxia and even flattered a traitor. He was instigated by him. Ma Rishidan was the first to sign and sign the articles. Relying on subordinates, deceiving the court, and serving the emperor treacherously.
In the past, the state assisted the enemy Jin army and was not convinced. Yi Liao's expression did not change in front of the shining white sword.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
王室大臣，岂得以见胁为辞！
又袁术僭逆，非一朝一夕，日磾随从，周旋历岁。
《汉律》与罪人交关三日已上，皆应知情。
《春秋》鲁叔孙得臣卒，以不发扬襄仲之罪，贬不书日。
郑人讨幽公之乱，斫子家之棺。
圣上哀矜旧臣，未忍追案，不宜加礼。
朝廷从之。
时论者多欲复肉刑。
融乃建议曰：古者敦，善否不别，吏端刑清，政无过失。
百姓有罪，皆自取之。
末世陵迟，风化坏乱，政挠其俗，法害其人。
故曰上失其道，民散久矣。而欲绳之以古刑，投之以残弃，非所谓与时消息者也。
纣斫朝涉之胫，天下谓为无道。
夫九牧之地，千八百君若各刖一人，是下常有千八百纣也。
求俗休和，弗可得已。
且被刑之人，虑不念生，志在思死，类多趋恶，莫复归正。
translation: 
Can court ministers be threatened as an excuse?
Moreover, Yuan Shu became more and more rebellious, and he did not just follow Sun and Shi single-handedly over the years.
"Han Code": Anyone who has been with a sinner for more than three days should know his situation.
"Spring and Autumn": Lu Shusun Dechen died. In order not to publicize Xiang Zhong's crime and demotion, he did not write the date.
Zheng attacked Duke You and chopped down the coffins of Bozi's family because he killed the king.
The emperor feels pity for his old minister and cannot bear to pursue the crime against him. This is very lenient and it is not appropriate to add courtesy.
The court accepted his opinion.
Public opinion at the time mostly wanted to reinstate corporal punishment.
Kong Rong suggested: People in ancient times were honest and simple, did not distinguish between good and evil, officials were upright, criminal laws were clear and clear, and there were no mistakes in politics.
If the common people are guilty, they are all responsible for themselves.
In the last days, the country has declined, the moral education has become chaotic, politics has disturbed the customs, and the country's laws have harmed the people.
Therefore, if the monarch fails to behave as a monarch, the people will become disloyal and disobedient, and want to use ancient criminal laws to mutilate their limbs. This is not a way to eliminate evil and promote good.
Zhou cut off the legs of those who waded into the river in the morning. People all over the world said that Zhou was cruel and cruel.
Once upon a time, there were 1,800 kingdoms in the Zhou Dynasty, and the people of the Nine Provinces supported 1,800 kings. If each person's foot was cut off, there would be 1,800 kings below.
It is absolutely impossible to achieve pure and beautiful customs.
Moreover, people who have been punished have no desire to live and are determined to die. Most of them take desperate risks and never return to the right path.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
夙沙乱齐，伊戾祸宋，赵高、英布，为世大患。
不能止人遂为非也，适足绝人还为善耳。
虽忠如鬻拳，信如卞和，智如孙膑，冤如巷伯，才如史迁，达如子政，一离刀锯，没世不齿。
是太甲之思诵，穆公之霸秦，南睢之骨立，卫武之《初筵》，陈汤之都赖，魏尚之守边，无所复施也。
汉开改恶之路，凡为此也。
故明德之君，远度深惟，弃短就长，不荀革其政者也。
朝廷善之，卒不改焉。
是时，荆州牧刘表不供职贡，多行僭伪，遂乃郊祀天地，拟斥乘舆。
诏书班下其事。
融上疏曰：窃闻领荆州牧刘表桀逆放恣，所为不轨，至乃郊祭天地，拟仪社稷。
虽昏僭恶极，罪不容诛，至于国体，宜且讳之。
何者？
万乘至重，天王至尊，身为圣躬，国为神器，陛级县远，禄位限绝，犹天之不可阶，日用之不可逾也。
每有一竖臣，辄云图之，若形之四方，非所以杜塞邪萌。
愚谓虽有重戾，必宜隐忍。
translation: 
Susha caused chaos in the Qi Dynasty, Yi's violence brought disaster to the Song Dynasty, and Zhao Gao and Yingbu caused great trouble to the world.
Not only does it not prevent people from doing bad things, it just cuts off the way for people to do good.
Although he is as loyal as Wan Quan, as trustworthy as Bian He, as wise as Sun Bin, as unjust as Xiang Bo, as talented as Shi Qian, and as daring as Zizheng, he will be laughed at even after his death.
Therefore, Taijia's thoughts are often said: Qin Mugong made Qin conquer Xirong, Nan Sui stood up, Wei Wu drank at the "Chu Banquet" and repented, Chen Tang made the right move and sent troops, killed Zhi Zhizhi and Du Lai Shui, Wei Shang guarded the border, etc., there is no need to mention them again.
The Han Dynasty widely opened the way to reform evil, and this was mostly the case.
Therefore, a wise and virtuous king will think deeply, discard shortcomings and learn from the strong points, and will not make political reforms casually.
The court thought his suggestion was good and finally did not resume corporal punishment.
At this time, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, refused to pay tribute to the court and did many things that went beyond the law. He actually worshiped heaven and earth in the countryside, intending to refer to the emperor.
The edict declared him to the world.
Kong Rong's Shangshu said: I heard that Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, was fierce and rebellious, and did not observe etiquette. He even worshiped heaven and earth in the suburbs and prepared rituals like the emperor.
Although he exceeded the limit and exceeded the limit, his crime was extremely heinous and he deserved to die. But as far as the country is concerned, it should not be made public for the time being.
Why?
The country is supreme and the emperor is supreme. The body is the bow of the sage, and the country is the sacred weapon. The ministers are like your Majesty, your Majesty's rank is far away, and your salary and position are limited. This is just like the sky cannot be ascended by the steps, and the sun and the moon cannot be surpassed.
Occasionally, if there is a minor minister, you have to deal with it and let everyone know that this is not a way to block evil cuteness.
I thought that even though I had committed a serious sin, I must endure it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
贾谊所谓 掷鼠忌器 ，盖谓此也。
是以齐兵次楚，唯责包茅；王师败绩，不书晋人。
前以露袁术之罪，今复下刘表之事，是使跛牂欲窥高岸，天险可得而登也。
案表跋扈，擅诛列侯，遏绝诏命，断盗贡篚，招呼元恶，以自营卫，专为群逆，主萃渊萎。郜鼎在庙，章孰甚焉！
桑落瓦解，其势可见。
臣愚以为宜隐郊祀之事，以崇国防。
五年，南阳王冯、东海王祗薨，帝伤其早殁，欲为修四时之祭，以访于融。
融对曰：圣恩敦睦，盛时增思，悼二王之灵，发哀愍之诏，稽度前典，以正礼制。
窃观故事，前梁怀王、临江愍王、齐哀王、临淮怀王并薨无后，同产昆弟，即景、武、昭、明四帝是也，未闻前朝修立祭祀。
若临时所施，则不列传纪。
臣愚以为诸在冲，圣慈哀悼，礼同成人，加以号谥者，宜称上恩，祭祀礼毕，而后绝之。
至于一岁之限，不合礼意，又违先帝已然之法，所未敢处。
translation: 
Jia Yi said: This is what it means to throw a rat-throwing weapon.
Therefore, when Qi troops attacked Chu, they only blamed Chu for not paying tribute and the defeat of the king's army, not that they were defeated by Jin.
In the past, Yuan Shu's crimes were exposed, and now Liu Biao's story is publicized. This makes the lame ewe look at the high bank and think that natural dangers can be climbed!
He found out that Liu Biao was domineering and disobedient, killed princes, prevented imperial edicts, cut off tributes, summoned evil, defended himself, and concealed the rebellious villains in the world. Gao Ding was housed in the Ancestral Temple. There is nothing more outstanding than this!
The Sangluo disintegrates and the situation becomes clear.
Therefore, I believe that the matter of suburban sacrifice should be concealed in order to safeguard the state.
In five years, Nanyang Wang Feng and Donghai Wang Zhi died. Emperor Xian was sad that they died too early, and wanted to arrange sacrifices for them at four times. To this end, Emperor Xian asked Kong Rong.
Kong Rong replied: Your Majesty is kind and considerate of the times. He mourns the souls of the two kings and issues pity edicts, examines and reviews the previous laws and regulations, and corrects the etiquette system.
I look at history and it turns out that in the past, King Huai of Liang, King Linjiang Min, King Qi Ai, and King Huai of Linhuai all died without descendants. Their brothers, namely Emperor Jing, Emperor Wu, Emperor Zhao, and Emperor Ming, never heard that the previous dynasty performed sacrifices for them.
If it's temporary, don't include it in the legend.
I am not sensible and think that they all died at a young age. The emperor grieved and gave them posthumous titles through the coming-of-age ceremony. This should be done according to your wishes. After the sacrifice, don't do it again in the future.
As for the one-year period, it is not in line with etiquette and violates the legal system established by the late emperor. This is inappropriate.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
初，曹操攻屠鄴城，袁氏妇子多见侵略，而操子丕私纳袁熙妻甄氏。
融乃与操书，称 武王伐纣，以妲己赐周公 。
操不悟，后问出何经典。
对曰： 以今度之，想当然耳。
后操讨乌桓，又嘲之曰： 大将军远征，萧条海外。昔肃慎不贡楛矢，丁零盗苏武牛羊，可并案也。
时，年饥兵兴，操表制酒禁，融频书争之，多侮慢之辞。
既见操雄诈渐著，数不能堪，故发辞偏宕，多致乖忤。
又尝奏宜准古王畿之制，千里寰内，不以封建诸侯。
操疑其所论建渐广，益惮之。
然以融名重天下，外相容忍，而潜怨正议，虑鲠大业。
山阳郗虑承望风旨，以微法奏免融官。
因显明仇怨，操故书激厉融曰：
盖闻唐、虞之朝，有克让之臣，故麟凤来而颂声作也。
translation: 
Earlier, Cao Cao attacked Yecheng and massacred the residents of Yecheng. Many of the women and girls of Yuan Shao's family were taken captive. Cao Cao's son Cao Pi secretly married Yuan Xi's wife Zhen.
Kong Rong wrote to Cao Cao, saying: King Wu defeated Zhou and rewarded Daji to Duke Zhou.
Cao Cao didn't understand, and later asked Kong Rong where this scripture came from.
Kong Rong replied: "Based on the current situation, I think it will be certain."
Later, when Cao Cao attacked Wuhuan, Kong Rong laughed at him and said: "The general went on an expedition and was depressed overseas. In the past, Su was careful not to pay tribute to Mu Kuya, and Ding Ling stole Su Wu's cattle and sheep. We can attack him together!"
At that time, there was famine and war, and Cao Cao petitioned for a ban on alcohol. Kong Rong wrote to Cao Cao many times, arguing that he should not ban alcohol, and his words were too insulting.
Having seen Cao Cao's treacherousness and deceit gradually revealed, he couldn't bear it, so he spoke in extreme ways and often offended Cao Cao.
He also once submitted a memorial that the ancient capital system should be followed, and no feudal princes should be allowed within a thousand miles.
Cao Cao doubted what he said gradually and became even more afraid of him.
However, because Kong Rong was famous all over the world, he pretended to be tolerant on the surface, but secretly he was jealous of his correct opinions and was afraid of hindering his great cause.
Shanyin Xilu tried to figure out Cao Cao's thoughts, and dismissed Kong Rong from his official position in defiance of national law.
In order to show his resentment, Cao Cao deliberately provoked Kong Rong.
Said: I once heard that in the Tang and Yu Dynasties, there were ministers who were able to do so, so linfeng flew over and sang loudly.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
后世德薄，犹有杀身为君，破国为国。
及至其敝，睚眦之怨必仇，一餐之惠必报。故晁错念国，遘祸于袁盎；屈平悼楚，受谮于椒、兰；彭宠倾乱，起自朱浮；邓禹威损，失于宗、冯。
由此言之，喜怒怨爱，祸福所困，可不慎与！
昔廉、蔺小国之臣，犹能相下；寇、贾仓卒武夫，屈节崇好；光武不问伯升之怨；齐侯不疑射钩之虏。
夫立大操者，岂累细故哉！
往闻二君有执法之平，以为小介，当收旧好；而怨毒渐积，志相危害，闻之怃然，中夜而起。
昔国家东迁，文举盛叹鸿豫名实相副，综达经学，出于郑玄，又明《司马法》，鸿豫亦称文举奇逸博闻，诚怪今者与始相违。
孤与文举既非旧好，又于鸿豫亦无恩纪，然愿人之相美，不乐人之相伤，是以区区思协欢好。
又知二君群小所构，孤为人臣，进不能风化海内，退不能建德和人，然抚养战士，杀身为国，破浮华交会之徒，计有余矣。
translation: 
Later generations have poor moral character, but there are still some who kill themselves to defend their rulers and destroy their families for the sake of their country.
When it comes to decline, a small grudge will definitely turn into revenge, and a favor must be repaid. Therefore, Chao Cuo misses the country, because he caused trouble to Yuan An, Qu Ping misses the Chu country, because Jiao Lan Jin framed him with greedy words, Peng Chong rebelled, because of Zhu Fu's slander, Deng Yu's prestige was lost, and he lost due to the power struggle between Zong Qin and Feng An.
In this way, shouldn't we be careful about the causes of joy, anger, resentment, and misfortunes?
In the past, Lian Po and Lin Xiangru, the ministers of a small country, could still give in to each other. The warriors in the troubled times of Kou and Jia were humble and respectful to each other. Guangwu did not forget the grudge of killing his brother Bo Sheng, and the Marquis of Qi did not hesitate to shoot the enemy.
Will those who set up big festivals be burdened by small stories?
I heard that although the two law enforcement officers were on good terms, they had some personal grievances and should be reconciled as before. However, your resentment gradually accumulated until it harmed each other. I was very sad to hear that and got up in the middle of the night.
In the past, when the country moved to the east, Hongyu, who was highly praised in literary examinations, lived up to his name. He was proficient in Confucian classics. He came from Zheng Xuan, and he also knew "Sima Fa". Hongyu also said that Wenju Qiyi was rumored. I am surprised that you are the opposite now.
Wen Ju and I are not old friends, nor do we have any friendship with Hongyu. However, we hope that we can get along well with each other rather than harm each other, so I sincerely hope that you will be harmonious and happy.
I also know that the two princes are separated by villains. As human ministers, they cannot be civilized in the sea when they advance, and they cannot build virtue and people when they retreat. However, I have many strategies to raise warriors, serve the country personally, and deal with those who are flamboyant and friendly.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
融报曰：猥惠书教，告所不逮。
融与鸿豫州里比郡，知之最早。
虽尝陈其功美，欲以厚于见私，信于为国，不求其覆过掩恶，有罪望不坐也。
前者黜退，欢欣受之。
昔赵宣子朝登韩厥，夕被其戮，喜而求贺。
况无彼人之功，而敢枉当官之平哉！
忠非三闾，智非晁错，窃位为过，免罪为幸。乃使余论远闻，所以惭惧也。
朱、彭、寇、贾，为世壮士，爱恶相攻，能为国忧。
至于轻弱薄劣，犹昆虫之相啮，适足还害其身，诚无所至也。
晋侯嘉其臣所争者大，而师旷以为不如心竞。
性既迟缓，与人无伤，虽出胯下之负，榆次之辱，不如贬毁之于己，犹蚊虻之一过也。
translation: 
Kong Rong's newspaper said: I was given a letter to teach you, and told me what I couldn't do.
Hongyuzhou and I are in neighboring counties, and I have known him for a long time.
Although I once said that his achievements were wonderful, I just wanted him to see more of his own shortcomings and be loyal to the country. Unexpectedly, he concealed his mistakes and his evildoings, and did not feel guilty when he was guilty.
I've been dismissed before and gladly accepted it.
In the past, Zhao Xuanzi was promoted to Han Jue's official position in the morning, and Han Jue killed Zhao Xuanzi's envoys in the evening. Zhao Xuanzi finally treated him with courtesy and happily asked others to congratulate him, saying that from now on I can be exempted from sin.
What's more, without Han Jue's merits, he dared to waste his position as an official?
Without Qu Yuan's loyalty and wrong wisdom, it would be a sin to steal the throne, and it would be a blessing to be exempted from guilt. However, some unnecessary comments were made to let you know, which makes me feel ashamed and afraid.
Zhu, Peng, Kou, and Jia were the strong men of the world. They loved and hated each other and attacked each other, which was a worry for the country.
As for being weak and weak, it is just like the bite of insects, it only harms oneself and nothing else.
The Marquis of Jin commended his ministers for their great efforts, but Shi Kuang thought it was not as good as Xin Jing Jing.
He is slow-witted by nature and does not harm others. Even though Han Xin suffered the humiliation of his crotch, and Jing Ke suffered the humiliation of Yu Ci, he did not realize the seriousness of the disparagement to himself.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
子产谓人心不相似，或矜势者，欲以取胜为荣，不念宋人待四海之洛，大炉不欲令酒酸也。
至于屈穀巨瓠，坚而无窃，当以无用罪之耳。
它者奉遵严教，不敢失坠。
郗为故吏，融所推进。
赵衰之拔穀，不轻公叔之升臣也。
知同其爱，训诲发中。
虽懿伯之忌，犹不得念，况恃旧交，而欲自外于贤吏哉！
辄布腹心，修好如初。
苦言至意，终身诵之。
岁余，复拜太中大夫。
必宽容少忌，好士，喜诱益后进。
及退闲职，宾客日盈其门。
常叹曰： 坐上客恒满，尊中酒不空，吾无忧矣。
与蔡邕素善，邕卒后，有虎贲士貌类于邕，融每酒酣，引与同坐，曰： 虽无老成人，且有典刑。
translation: 
Zichan said that people's hearts are different. Some value power and want to win as an honor, while others do not want Song people to receive guests from all over the world. Da Chu Lu didn’t want to make the wine sour.
As for Qu's big earthenware pot, it is hard and hollow and should be punished as useless.
Others should strictly follow the instructions and not dare to make any mistakes.
Xi Lu is an old official and I recommend him.
When Zhao Shui promoted Gu Quan, he did not underestimate the promotion of his uncle.
I know that you and I both love and care for Xi Liu, and our teachings come from the bottom of our hearts.
Although there is Yibo's jealousy, it is still not considered. How about relying on old friends and trying to rely on good officials?
Dedicated to the heart and mind, repair it as before.
Your hard words mean the most and will never be forgotten for the rest of your life.
After more than a year, he was again appointed as Taizhong doctor.
He is tolerant and non-suspicious by nature, a good scholar, and likes to induce and promote young people.
And after retiring from his idle position, the house is full of guests every day.
Chang sighed and said: If the seats are always full of guests and the wine in the wooden statue is not empty, then I will have no worries.
He was very good with Cai Yong. After Cai Yong's death, there was a tiger warrior who looked a bit like Cai Yong. Every time Kong Rong drank enough wine, he invited him to sit with him and said: Although there is no old man, I am glad that there are still typical models.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
融闻人之善，若出诸己，言有可采，必演而成之，面告其短，而退称所长，荐达贤士，多所奖进，知而未言，以为己过，故海内英俊皆信服之。
曹操既积嫌忌，而郗虑复构成其罪，遂令丞相军谋祭酒路粹枉状奏融曰：少府孔融，昔在北海，见王室不静，而招合徒众，欲规不轨，云 我大圣之后，而见灭于宋，有天下者，何必卯金刀 。
及与孙权使语，谤讪朝廷。
又融为九列，不遵朝仪，秃巾微行，唐突官掖。
又前与白衣祢衡跌荡放言，云 父之于子，当有何亲？
论其本意，实为情欲发耳。
子之于母，亦复奚为？
譬如寄物缶中，出则离矣 。
既而与衡更相赞扬。衡谓融曰： 仲尼不死。
融答曰： 颜回复生。
大逆不道，宜极重诛。
书奏，下狱弃市。
时年五十六。
妻、子皆被诛。
初，女年七岁，男年九岁，以其幼弱得全，寄它舍。
二子方弈棋，融被收而不动。
左右曰： 父执而不起，何也？
答曰： 安有巢毁而卵不破乎！
主人有遗肉汁，男渴而饮之。
女曰： 今日之祸，岂得久活，何赖知肉味乎？
兄号泣而止。
translation: 
When Kong Rong heard that others had good deeds, he treated them as if they were his own, and if his words were useful, he would always respond perfunctorily, telling others their shortcomings and praising their strengths. Recommend wise men and reward enterprising people. If he knew something and didn't tell it, he thought it was his own fault, so all the handsome people in the country believed in him.
Cao Cao was full of suspicion and jealousy, and Xi worried and framed him for his crime, so he ordered the prime minister's army to plan a wine sacrifice. Lu Cui wrongfully reported to Kong Rong, saying: Kong Rong, the young master, once saw the royal family in Beihai and saw the unrest in the royal family. He gathered his disciples and plotted evil. He said: After the great sage, I was destroyed by the Song Dynasty. If there is a world, why must it be the Mao Jin Dao?
Later, he spoke to Sun Quan's envoy and slandered the court.
In addition, Kong Rong was in the position of Jiuqing. He did not abide by the etiquette of the court, did not wear a bow, and went around in the palace.
In the past, he and Mi Heng, who had not become an official, were talking carelessly and nonsense. What kind of relationship do father and son have?
In terms of its original intention, it is actually just lust.
What happened to the son and mother?
It's like putting things in a can and being separated when they come out.
Soon, Ni Heng and Ni Heng even boasted that Kong Rong was "Zhong Ni Immortal".
Kong Rong replied: Yan Hui is reborn.
Those who are treasonous and dishonest should be severely punished.
The book was written and sentenced to abandon the market.
He was fifty-six years old.
His wife and children were all killed.
First, the daughter was seven years old and the boy was nine years old. Because they were both young and weak, they had to be preserved. Send it to someone else.
When the two men were playing chess, Kong Rong was arrested and did not move.
People around him said: My father was arrested and I can’t afford it. Why?
Answer: Where is the nest that is destroyed but the eggs are not broken?
The master left some gravy, and the boy was thirsty and drank it.
The girl said: How can I survive such a disaster today and still know the taste of meat?
Brother cried and stopped drinking.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
或言于曹操，遂尽杀之。
及收至，谓兄曰： 若死者有知，得见父母，岂非至愿！
乃延颈就刑，颜色不变，莫不伤之。
初，京兆人脂习元升，与融相善，每戒融刚直。
及被害，许下莫敢收者，习往抚尸曰： 文举舍我死，吾何用生为？
操闻大怒，将收习杀之，后得赦出。
魏文帝深好融文辞，每叹曰： 杨、班俦也。
募天下有上融文章者，辄赏以金、帛。
所著诗、颂、碑文、论议、六言、策文、表、檄、教令、书记凡二十五篇。
文帝以习有栾布之节，加中散大夫。
论曰：昔谏大夫郑是有言： 山有猛兽者，藜藿为之不采。
是以孔父正色，不容弑虐之谋；平仲立朝，有纾盗齐之望。
若夫文举之高志直情，其足以动义概而忤雄心。
故使移鼎之迹，事隔于人存；代终之规，启机于身后也。
夫严气正性，覆折而己。
岂有员园委屈，可以每其生哉！懔懔焉，皓皓焉，其与琨玉秋霜比质可也。
translation: 
Someone told Cao Cao, so he decided to kill them all.
When the arresters arrived, the woman said to her brother: If the deceased was known and his parents could be seen, wouldn't it be our greatest wish?
So he was tortured by his neck, and his color did not change. No one could not feel sad for him.
In the past, the people of Jingzhao, Zhi Xi and Yuan Sheng, had a good relationship with Kong Rong, and had warned Kong Rong of being upright.
When he was killed, no one in Xuchang dared to collect the body. Zhi Xi went to caress the body and said: Wen Ju left me to die, and I will no longer live.
Cao Cao was furious when he heard that he was about to arrest Zhi Xi and kill him. He was later pardoned and released.
Emperor Wen of Wei loved Kong Rong's literary works most, and he often sighed and said: Yang Xiong and Ban Gu are first-rate.
Recruiting those who submit Kong Rong's articles from all over the world, they will be rewarded with gold and silk.
Kong Rong wrote a total of twenty-five poems, odes, inscriptions, discussions, six words, strategies, lists, appeals, orders, and secretaries.
Emperor Wen believed that Zhi Xi had a strong relationship with Luan Bu, so he added Zhongsan Dafu.
The historian commented: Once upon a time, Zheng Chang, an admonishing doctor, said: There are ferocious beasts in the mountains, but no one dares to pick quinoa.
Therefore, Confucius established his dynasty in an upright manner, and no one made any mistakes that would cause trouble to his lord. Yan Pingzhong was in the dynasty, and Tian Chengzi did not dare to kill the lord of Qi and steal his country.
As for Kong Wenju's noble aspirations and frank feelings, they can definitely inspire loyalty and resist the treacherous heart.
Therefore, when Cao Cao was alive, he did not dare to usurp the Han Dynasty, but it was Cao Pi who succeeded the Han Dynasty after his death.
Strict qi and righteousness are nothing more than overturning and destroying.
Is it possible to live a life of humiliation and compromise? Strict and neat, bright and white, Kong Rong's quality can be compared with that of white jade and autumn frost!


Chunk 17: 
original: 
荀彧字文若，颍川颍阴人，朗陵令淑之孙也。
父绲，为济南相。
绲畏惮宦官，乃为彧娶中常侍唐衡女。
彧以少有才名，故得免于讥议。
南阳何颙名知人，见彧而异之，曰： 王佐才也。
中平六年，举孝廉，再迁亢父令。
董卓之乱，弃官归乡里。
同郡韩融时将宗亲千余家，避乱密西山中。
彧谓父老曰： 颍川，四战之地也。
天下有变，常为兵冲。
密虽小固，不足以大难，宜亟避之。
乡人多怀土不能去。
会冀州牧同郡韩馥遣骑迎之，彧乃独将宗族从馥，留者后多为董卓将李所杀略焉。
彧比至冀州，而袁绍已夺馥位，绍待彧以上宾之礼。
彧明有意数，见汉室崩乱，每怀匡佐之义。
translation: 
◆Xun Yu's biography, Xun Yu's courtesy name Wenruo, was born in Yingyin, Yingchuan, and was the grandson of Xun Shu, the magistrate of Langling County.
His father, Xun Nu, served as Prime Minister of Jinan.
Xun Yu was afraid of eunuchs, so he married Xun Yu's daughter to Tang Heng, the official minister of the imperial court.
Xun Yu was saved from being ridiculed because he was famous for his talent at a young age.
He Yong from Nanyang claimed to be able to understand people. When he saw Xun Yu, he thought he was extraordinary and said: "This is the talent of the emperor's assistant."
In the sixth year of Zhongping, he was recommended as Xiaolian and appointed as the magistrate of Kangfu County.
When Dong Zhuo rebelled, he abandoned his official position and returned to his hometown.
Han Rong from the same county took more than a thousand members of his clan to escape the chaos in the western mountains of Mi County.
Xun Yu said to his elders: Yingchuan is a place where war must pass.
When the world changes, it is often the place where troops are needed.
Although Mi County is somewhat safe, it is not enough to withstand a major disaster. You should leave here as soon as possible.
Most of the fellow countrymen are nostalgic for their homeland and are unwilling to leave.
When Han Fu, a fellow herdsman from Jizhou, sent cavalry to pick them up, Xun Yu led his clan to follow Han Fu. Most of the people he left behind were later killed and robbed by Dong Zhuo's general Li Jue.
By the time Xun Yu arrived in Jizhou, Yuan Shao had already usurped Han Fu's position. Yuan Shao treated Xun Yu like a distinguished guest.
Xun Yu was a well-informed person. Seeing the chaos in the Han Dynasty, he always wanted to correct things.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
时，曹操在东郡，彧闻操有雄略，而度绍终不能定大业。
初平二年，乃去绍从操。
操与语大悦，曰： 吾子房也。
以为奋武司马，时年二十九。
明年，又为操镇东司马。
兴平元年，操东击陶谦，使彧守甄城，任以留事。
会张邈、陈宫以兗州反操，而潜迎吕布。
布即至，诸城悉应之。
邈乃使人谲彧曰： 吕将军来助曹使君击陶谦，宜亟供军实。
彧知邈有变，即勒兵设备，故邈计不行。
豫州刺史郭贡率兵数万来到城下，求见彧。
彧将往，东郡太守夏侯淳等止之。曰： 何知贡不与吕布同谋，而轻欲见之。
今君为一州之镇，往必危也。
彧曰： 贡与邈等分非素结，今来速者，计必未定，及其犹豫，宜时说之，纵不为用，可使中立。
若先怀疑嫌，彼将怒而成谋，不如往也。
贡既见彧无惧意，知城不可攻，遂引而去。
彧乃使程昱说范、东阿，使固其守，卒全三城以待操焉。
二年，陶谦死，操欲遂取徐州，还定吕布。
彧谏曰：昔高祖保关中，光武据河内，皆深根固本，以制天下。
translation: 
At that time, Cao Cao was in Dongjun. Xun Yu heard that Cao Cao was talented and strategist, but he estimated that Yuan Shao would not be able to achieve great things in the end.
In the second year of Chuping, he left Yuan Shao and went to Cao Cao.
Cao Cao was overjoyed after talking to him and said: "This is my Zhang Liang."
He was appointed Fenwu Sima when he was twenty-nine years old.
The next year, he was appointed Sima of Zhendong.
In the first year of Xingping, Cao Cao attacked Tao Qian in the east and sent Xun Yu to guard Zhen City to take charge of the affairs left behind.
He caught up with Zhang Miao and Chen Gong and took Yanzhou to rebel against Cao Cao, and secretly welcomed Lu Bu.
After Lu Bu arrived, all cities responded.
Zhang Miao sent someone to deceive Xun Yu and said: General Lu came to help Cao Shijun defeat Tao Qian, so we should quickly supply him with military supplies.
Xun Yu knew that Zhang Miao had changed, so he deployed troops to fortify Zhang Miao's plan. Therefore, Zhang Miao's plan could not succeed.
Guo Gong, the governor of Yuzhou, led tens of thousands of troops to the city and asked to see Xun Yu.
Xun Yu was about to go, but Xiahou Dun, the prefect of Dongjun, and others stopped him, saying: "How do you know that Guo Gong is not conspiring with Lu Bu and meets him rashly?"
Now that you are the head of a state, it must be dangerous to go there.
Xun Yu said: Guo Gong and Zhang Miao and others usually have no friendship. Now that they have come so quickly, they must not have reached an agreement. When he is hesitant, we should persuade him in time. Even if it is not of our use, he can still be neutral.
If you doubt him first, he will be angry and conspire with them. It is better to go there.
Guo Gong saw that Xun Yu had no intention of fear and knew that the city could not be attacked, so he led his troops and left.
Xun Yu sent Cheng Yu to persuade Fan County and Dong'a to strengthen the city defense, and finally secured the three cities to wait for Cao Cao's return.
In the second year of Xingping, Tao Qian died. Cao Cao wanted to capture Xuzhou immediately and quell Lu Bu after returning his troops.
Xun Yu advised: In the past, when Emperor Gaozu occupied Guanzhong and Emperor Guangwu occupied Hanoi, they both consolidated the foundation first to control the world.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
进可以胜敌，退足以坚守，故虽有困败，而终济大业。
将军本以兗州首事，故能平定山东，此实天下之要地，而将军之关河也。
若不先定之，根本将何寄乎？
宜急分讨陈宫，使虏不得西顾，乘其间而收熟麦，约食稸谷，以资一举，则吕布不足破也。
今舍之而东，未见其便。
多留兵则力不胜敌，少留兵则后不足因。
布乘虚寇暴，震动人心，纵数城或全，其余非复己有，则将军尚安归乎？
且前讨徐州，威罚实行，其子弟念父兄之耻，必人自为守。就能破之，尚不可保。
彼若惧而相结，共为表里，坚壁清野，以待将军，将军攻之不拔，掠之无获，不出一旬，则十万之众未战而自困矣。
夫事固有弃彼取此，以权一时之势，愿将军虑焉。
操于是大收熟麦，复与布战。
布败走，因分定诸县，兗州遂平。
translation: 
You can attack when you advance, and you can defend when you retreat, so even though you may fail, you can eventually accomplish your great cause.
The general is based on Yanzhou, so he can pacify Shandong. This is really an important place in the world, the general's Hangu Pass and the Yellow River.
If we don't stabilize it first, where should we put the foundation?
We should immediately divide our troops to attack Chen Gong, so that the enemy cannot go west, take advantage of the opportunity to harvest the ripe wheat, diet and store grain to support military operations, then Lu Bu will not be difficult to defeat.
There may not be much benefit in leaving this place and heading east.
If you retain too many troops, the front force will not be able to defeat the enemy; if you retain too few troops, the rear will not be able to consolidate.
Lu Bu took advantage of the opportunity to invade and shocked people's hearts. Even if a few cities were saved, the rest were no longer his own, so where could the general return?
Moreover, when we conquered Xuzhou in the past, we showed off our power and imposed punishments. The children there remembered the shame of their father and brother being killed, so everyone must hold on to it. Even if they could conquer it, they would not be able to hold it.
If they unite out of fear, support each other, fortify the walls and clear the country, waiting to deal with the general, the general's attack will not be defeated, and the looting will not be harvested. In less than ten days, the 100,000-strong army will be passive before fighting.
Although there have been cases of choosing one over the other, it all depends on the situation at the time, so I hope the general will consider it.
Cao Cao then vigorously harvested the ripe wheat and fought with Lu Bu.
Lu Bu was defeated and fled, taking the opportunity to pacify each county separately, and Yanzhou was pacified.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
建安元年，献帝自河东还洛阳，操议欲奉迎车驾，徙都于许。
众多以山东未定，韩暹、杨奉负功恣睢，未可卒制。
彧乃劝操曰： 昔晋文公纳周襄王，而诸侯景从；汉高祖为义帝缟素，而天下归心。
自天子蒙尘，将军首唱义兵，徒以山东扰乱，未遑远赴，虽御难于外，乃心无不在王室。
今銮驾旋轸，东京榛芜，义士有存本之思，兆人怀感旧之哀。
诚因此时奉主上以从人望，大顺也；秉至公以服天下，大略也；扶弘义以致英俊，大德也。
四方虽有逆节，其何能为？
韩暹、杨奉，安足恤哉！
若不时定，使豪杰生心，后虽为虑，亦无及矣。
操纵之。
及帝都许，以彧为侍中，守尚书令。
translation: 
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian returned to Luoyang from Hedong. Cao Cao planned to welcome the chariot and move the capital to Xuchang.
Most people believed that Shandong was not yet stable, and that Han Xian and Yang Feng were relying on their merits and acting arrogantly, so they should not act hastily.
Xun Yu then encouraged Cao Cao and said: In the past, Duke Wen of Jin accepted King Xiang of Zhou, and the princes followed Jin like a shadow; the emperor of the Han Dynasty paid filial piety to the Righteous Emperor, and the people of the world surrendered.
Since the emperor's calamity, the general raised the first volunteer army, but because of the chaos in Shandong, he did not bother to take over. Although he was out fighting the chaos, he was always thinking about the royal family in his heart.
Now that the emperor has returned, Luoyang is desolate, the righteous people have the desire to protect the orthodoxy, and the people feel the sorrow of remembering the past.
If you can really serve the Lord at this time and comply with the wishes of all the people, this is great obedience; if you hold the greatest authority to make the world obey, this is great strategy; if you support great righteousness to attract talents, this is great virtue.
Even if someone disobeys, what can be done?
Why should Han Xian and Yang Feng be worried?
If you don't decide in time and let other heroes have this intention, even if you think about it again in the future, it will be too late.
Cao Cao listened to his advice.
When the emperor moved the capital to Xuchang, he appointed Xun Yu as his minister and acting minister.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
操每征伐在外，其军国之事，皆与彧筹焉，彧又进操计谋之士从子攸，及钟繇、郭嘉、陈群、杜袭、司马懿、戏志才等，皆称其举。
唯严象为杨州，韦康为凉州，后并负败焉。
袁绍既兼河朔之地，有骄气。
而操败于张绣，绍与操书甚倨。
操大怒，欲先攻之，而患力不敌，以谋于彧。
彧量绍虽强，终为操所制，乃说先取吕布，然后图绍，操从之。
三年，遂擒吕布，定徐州。
五年，袁绍率大众以攻许，操与相距。
绍甲兵甚盛，议者咸怀惶惧。
少府孔融谓彧曰： 袁绍地广兵强，田丰、许攸智计之士为其谋，审配、逢纪尽忠之臣任其事，颜良、文丑勇冠三军，统其兵，殆难克乎？
彧曰： 绍兵虽多而法不整，田丰刚而犯上，许攸贪而不正，审配专而无谋，逢纪果而自用，颜良、文丑匹夫之勇，可一点而擒也。
后皆如彧所筹，事在《袁绍传》。
操保官度，与绍连战，虽胜而军粮方尽，书与彧议，欲还许以致绍师。
彧报曰： 今谷食虽少，未若楚汉在荥阳、成皋间也。
是时刘、项莫肯先退者，以为先退则势屈也。
公以十分居一之众，画地而守之，扼其喉而不得进，已半年矣。
translation: 
Cao Cao often went out to fight, and discussed all major military and state affairs with Xun Yu. Xun Yu also recommended to Cao Cao his nephew Xun You who was good at strategy, as well as Zhong Yao, Guo Jia, Chen Qun, Du Xi, Sima Yi, Xi Zhicai, etc., and they all lived up to his recommendation.
Only Yan Xiang was appointed governor of Yangzhou and Wei Kang was appointed governor of Liangzhou, but they were both defeated and died.
After Yuan Shao annexed the land of Heshuo, he became arrogant.
When Cao Cao was defeated by Zhang Xiu, Yuan Shao's letter to Cao Cao was very arrogant.
Cao Cao was furious and wanted to attack Yuan Shao first, but was afraid that he would not be able to defeat him, so he discussed this with Xun Yu.
Xun Yu estimated that although Yuan Shao was strong, he would be subdued by Cao Cao sooner or later, so he advised Cao Cao to eliminate Lu Bu first and then deal with Yuan Shao. Cao Cao followed his advice.
In the third year of Jian'an, Lu Bu was finally captured and Xuzhou was pacified.
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Yuan Shao led an army to attack Xuchang, and Cao Cao had a stalemate with him.
Yuan Shao's army was large, and everyone who discussed this matter was afraid.
Kong Rong, the Shaofu, said to Xun Yu: "Yuan Shao has a vast territory and a strong army. Wise men like Tian Feng and Xu You are planning for him. He has appointed ministers who are loyal and loyal to discipline and assigned to important positions. Yan Liang and Wen Chou are the bravest among the three armies." command his army.
I'm afraid it's hard to win, right? Xun Yu said: Although Yuan Shao had many soldiers, his military law was not strict, Tian Feng was upright and committed crimes, Xu You was greedy and not upright, his officers were arbitrary but unintelligent, he was bold and self-righteous in the face of discipline, Yan Liangwen was brave and ugly, and he could capture them in one battle.
Later, everything happened as Xun Yu expected. This matter is recorded in "The Biography of Yuan Shao".
Cao Cao was guarding Guandu and fought successive battles with Yuan Shao. Although he won the victory, he was about to run out of military rations. He wrote to Xun Yu to discuss the matter and wanted to return to Xuchang to wait for Yuan Shao's army.
Xun Yu wrote back and said: Although there is little food now, it is not like when Chu and Han were in a stalemate between Xingyang and Chenggao.
At that time, Liu Bang and Xiang Yu refused to retreat first, thinking that retreating first would damage morale.
It has been half a year since you used one-tenth of the opponent's troops to defend the territory and guard the choke points to prevent him from advancing.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
情见势谒，必将有变，此用奇之时，不可失也。
操从之，乃坚壁持之。
遂以奇兵破绍，绍退走。
封彧万岁亭侯，邑一千户。
六年，操以绍新破，未能为患，但欲留兵卫之，自欲南征刘表，以计问彧。
彧对曰： 绍既新败，众惧人扰，今不因而定之，而欲远兵江汉，若绍收离纠散，乘虚以出，则公之事去矣。
操乃止。
九年，操拔鄴，自领冀州牧。
有说操宜复置九州者，以为冀部所统既广，则天下易服。
操将从之。
彧言曰： 今苦依古制，是为冀州所统，悉有河东、冯翊、扶风、西河、幽、并之地也。
公前屠鄴城，海内震骇，各惧不得保其土宇，守其兵众。
translation: 
It can be seen that this situation is about to end, and there will be a turnaround soon. This is a time to use extraordinary measures, and you must not miss the opportunity.
Cao Cao listened to his advice and stood firm against Yuan Shao.
Finally, Yuan Shao was defeated with extraordinary troops, and Yuan Shao was defeated.
Xun Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Long Live Pavilion, and was granted the title of Marquis of Long Live Pavilion, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao believed that Yuan Shao had just been defeated and was not in danger. He wanted to leave only the guard troops and conquer Liu Biao southward to question Xun Yu.
Xun Yu replied: "Yuan Shao has just been defeated and people are in panic. Now instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to pacify the situation, they are going to expedition to Jianghan. If Yuan Shao gathers the defeated tribesmen and takes advantage of the opportunity, then your big thing will be ruined."
Cao Cao then gave up.
In the ninth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao captured Yecheng and appointed himself the shepherd of Jizhou.
Some people advised Cao Cao to restore the ancient Jiuzhou system, thinking that if the territory under Jizhou's jurisdiction was larger, the world would be more likely to obey.
Cao Cao planned to accept this proposal.
Xun Yu said to him: If the ancient system is followed now, the jurisdiction of Jizhou will include Hedong, Fengyi, Fufeng, Xihe, Youzhou, Bingzhou and other places.
You massacred Yecheng before, and the world was in shock. Everyone was afraid that they would not be able to defend their territory and their own troops.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
今若一处被侵，必谓以次见夺，人心易动，若一旦生变，天下未可图也。
愿公先定河北，然后修复旧京，南临楚郢，责王贡之不入。
天下咸知公意，则人人自安。
须海内大定，乃议古制，此主稷长久之利也。
操报曰： 微足下之相难，所失多矣！
遂寝九州议。
十二年，操上书表彧曰：昔袁绍作逆，连兵官度，时众寡粮单，图欲还许。
尚书令荀彧深建宜住之便，远恢进讨之略，起发臣心，革易愚虑，坚营固守，徼其军实，遂摧扑大寇，济危以安。
绍既破败，臣粮亦尽，将舍河北之规，改就荆南之策。
彧复备陈得失，用移臣议，故得反冀土，克平四州。
向使臣退军官度，绍必鼓行而前，敌人怀利以自百，臣众怯沮以丧气，有必败之形，无一捷之势。
复苦南征刘表，委弃兗、豫，饥军深入，逾越江、沔，利既难要，将失本据。
而彧建二策，以亡为存，以祸为福，谋殊功异，臣所不及。
是故先帝贵指纵之功，薄搏获之赏；古人尚帷幄之规，下攻拔之力。
translation: 
Nowadays, if one place is attacked, others will definitely think that other places will be taken over in turn. People's hearts will be turbulent. If chaos occurs, things will be difficult to manage in the world.
I hope you can pacify Hebei first, then repair and restore the old capital, march to Chu Ying, and accuse them of not paying tribute to the court.
Everyone in the world understands what you mean, and everyone feels at ease.
The world must be completely stable before we can talk about the issue of ancient systems. This is in the long-term interests of the country.
Cao Cao wrote back and said: If it weren't for this step's reminder, the loss would have been great!
So the Jiuzhou proposal was abandoned.
In the twelfth year of Jian'an, Cao Cao wrote a letter praising Xun Yu's achievements and said: In the past, Yuan Shao caused rebellion and assembled a large army in Guandu. At that time, we had few soldiers and food, and planned to retreat to Xuchang.
The minister ordered Xun Yu to state the advantages of holding on and put forward a strategic strategy from a high position, which inspired my thinking and changed my wrong plan. He strengthened the fortress and defended it tenaciously, captured the enemy's armaments, and finally defeated the powerful enemy and turned the danger into safety.
After Yuan Shao's defeat, I also ran out of military rations and planned to abandon my plan to capture Hebei and instead plot Jingnan.
Xun Yu also explained the gains and losses in detail to change the opinions of his ministers, so he was able to return to Jizhou and pacify four states and counties.
If I had retreated from Guandu, Yuan Shao would have beaten the drums and advanced. The enemy would have the upper hand and become more courageous. However, my army would be timid and demoralized. It would be a sure defeat and there would be no chance of victory.
Moreover, if Liu Biao marched southward and left Yanzhou and Yuzhou behind, and the hungry army penetrated deeper and crossed the Yangtze River and Hanshui River, not only would it be difficult to make any gains, but they would also lose support.
However, Xun Yu proposed these two strategies, which turned defeat into victory and misfortune into blessing. His strategy was extraordinary and his achievements were outstanding, which I could not compare with.
Therefore, the late emperor valued the merits of commanding and dispatching, but gave less rewards to those who achieved victory in combat. The ancients valued the merits of strategizing and underestimated the courage of attacking cities and building strongholds.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
原其绩效，足享高爵。
而海内未喻其状所受不侔其功，臣诚惜之，乞重平议，增畴户邑。
彧深辞让。
操譬之曰： 昔介子推有言： 窃人之财，犹谓之盗。
况君奇谟拔出，兴亡所系，可专有之邪？
虽慕鲁连冲高之迹，将为圣人达节之义乎！
于是增封千户，并前二千户。
又欲授以正司，彧使荀攸深自陈让，至于十数，乃止。
操将伐刘表，问彧所策。
彧曰： 今华夏以平，荆、汉知亡矣，可声出宛、叶而间行轻进，以掩其不意。
操从之。
会表病死。
十七年，董昭等欲共进操爵国公，九锡备物，密以访彧。
彧曰： 曹公本兴义兵，以匡振汉朝，虽勋庸崇著，犹秉忠贞之节。
translation: 
Looking back on Xun Yu's achievements, he was enough to enjoy high official status and generous salary.
However, people in the world did not understand the situation, and what he got was not commensurate with his merits. I really regretted this and asked for a re-evaluation to increase his food.
Xun Yu tried his best to refuse.
Cao Cao persuaded him and said: Once upon a time, Jie Zitui said: Those who steal other people's property are still called thieves.
What's more, my husband's extraordinary ingenuity is related to the rise and fall of the world. Can I take all the credit?
Although you admire Lu Zhonglian’s noble behavior, you should still imitate the saint and understand current affairs!
So one thousand more households were sealed, adding to the previous ones a total of two thousand households were sealed.
He also wanted to appoint him as the official minister, but Xun Yu asked Xun You to give in as hard as he could, and he gave up after more than ten times.
Cao Cao was about to attack Liu Biao and asked Xun Yu about his military strategy.
Xun Yu said: Now that the Central Plains has been pacified, the Jing and Han Dynasties know that they are about to perish, so they can declare that they will send troops from Wan and Ye and attack with light cavalry from the trail to catch them by surprise.
Cao Cao followed his advice.
At this time Liu Biao died of illness.
In the seventeenth year of Jian'an, Dong Zhao and others wanted to jointly recommend Cao Cao to the title of Duke of Jin, give him Jiuxi ceremonial utensils, and secretly consult Xun Yu for his opinions.
Xun Yu said: Duke Cao originally mobilized rebel troops to revitalize the Han Dynasty. Although he had outstanding achievements, he still maintained his loyalty.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
君子爱人以德，不宜如此。
事遂。
操心不能平。
会南征孙权，表请彧劳军于谯，因表留彧曰： 臣闻古之遣将，上设监督之重，下建副二之任，所以尊严国命，谋而鲜过者也。
臣今当济江，奉辞伐罪，宜有大使肃将王命。
文武并用，自古有之。
使持节侍中守尚书令万岁亭侯彧，国之重臣，德洽华夏，既停军所次，便宜与臣俱进，宣示国命，威怀丑虏。
军礼尚速，不及先请，臣辄留彧，依以为重。
书奏，帝从之，遂以彧为侍中、光禄大夫，持节，参丞相军事。
至濡须，彧病留寿春，操馈之食，发视，乃空器也，于是饮药而卒。
时年五十。
帝哀惜之，祖日为之废宴乐。
谥曰敬侯。
明年，操遂称魏公云。
论曰：自迁帝西京，山东腾沸，天下之命倒县矣。
荀君乃越河、冀，间关以从曹氏。
translation: 
A gentleman's love for others must be moral, and it shouldn't be like this.
The matter was put on hold.
Cao Cao couldn't calm down.
When Sun Quan was conquering the south, Cao Cao asked Xun Yu to work in Qiao County. He took the opportunity to report that Xun Yu would stay, saying: "I heard that in ancient times, generals were dispatched with supervising troops above and deputies below to help, in order to show the dignity of the country and reduce mistakes."
Now that I am about to cross the river, I will send you my message to attack the enemy. There should be noble envoys to solemnly carry out the king's orders.
The use of both civil and military forces has existed since ancient times.
The envoy Chijie Shizhong, the guardian of Shangshu Ling Long Live Pavilion Marquis Xunyu, is an important minister of the country. His virtues are spread all over China. He has already arrived at the army's garrison, so that he can march with the ministers, declare the imperial orders, and use his mighty virtue to pacify the enemy invaders.
The military leader was so quick that he had no time to ask for instructions, so he kept Xun Yu privately as an important assistant.
After submitting a written report, the emperor agreed to his request, and appointed Xun Yu as Shizhong and Guanglu Doctor to uphold integrity and advise the prime minister on military affairs.
When he arrived in Ruxu, Xun Yu stayed in Shouchun due to illness. Cao Cao presented him with food. When he opened the box, he found it was empty, so Xun Yu took poison and died.
He was fifty years old.
The emperor felt sorry for him, so no music was played on the day of sacrifice.
The posthumous title is respectful.
The next year, Cao Cao finally called himself Duke of Wei.
The argument goes: Since Dong Zhuo moved the emperor to Xijing, Shandong has been in chaos. The lives of all people in the world seem to be hanging upside down.
Jun Xun crossed the Yellow River and Jizhou, and followed the Cao family.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
察其定举措，立言策，崇明王略，以急国艰，岂云因乱假义，以就违正之谋乎？
诚仁为己任，期纾民于仓卒也。
及阻董昭之议，以致非命，岂数也夫！
世言荀君者，通塞或过矣。
常以为中贤以下，道无求备，智算有所研疏，原始未必要末，斯理之不可全诘者也。
夫以卫赐之贤，一说而毙两国。
彼非薄于仁而欲之，盖有全必有丧也，斯又功之不兼者也。
方时运之屯，非雄才无以济其溺，功高势强，则皇器自移矣。
此文时之不可并也。
盖取其归正而已，亦杀身以成仁之义也。
赞曰：公业称豪，骏声升腾。
权诡时逼，挥金僚朋。
北海天逸，音情顿挫。越俗易惊，孤音少和。
translation: 
Looking at the measures he established and the strategies he planned, they were all based on royal principles and eager to save the country from crisis. How could it be said that he was taking advantage of the chaos and pretending to be benevolent and righteous to cater to the evil conspiracy?
I really take it as my responsibility to be benevolent and righteous, hoping to save the people during this chaotic period.
Waiting for blocking Dong Zhao's proposal and losing his life, isn't that what fate should be like!
When people comment on Xun Jun, they may pay too much attention to his prominence and difficulties.
I often think that wise men below the average level cannot seek perfection in their conduct and actions, and their plans are both fine and rough. They consider the beginning but not necessarily the end. This is the principle of not seeking perfection.
With Zigong's wisdom, his lobbying even harmed the two countries.
He didn't do this intentionally because he lacked benevolence. I'm afraid that if something is saved, something must be lost. This is the reason why it is difficult to have both sides.
Times were difficult at that time, and if you were not a heroic figure, you would not be able to save it from decline. However, since this person was so successful and powerful, the political power was naturally transferred to his hands.
This again means that this moment and the other moment cannot be compared.
It mainly depends on whether his return to the imperial court's position is in line with the righteousness of killing one's life and becoming a benevolent person.
Praise: Mrs. Deng showed her heroic spirit and her reputation spread.
Forced by the situation, he dealt with powerful traitors hypocritically and squandered money to save his friends.
Kong Rong was handsome, graceful, transcendent, easily frightened, and his lonely voice rarely responded.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
直辔安归，高谋谁佐？
彧之有弼，诚感国疾。
功申运改，迹疑心一。
translation: 
Go straight ahead, where is your destination? Who will help with the lofty strategy?
Xun Yu assisted Cao Cao because he was feeling the national crisis.
The career is successful but the destiny changes. The behavior is questionable but the heart remains true to the right path.


