Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦婴字王孙，孝文皇后从兄子也。
父世观津人也。喜宾客。
孝文时为吴相，病免。
孝景即位，为詹事。
帝弟梁孝王，母窦太后爱之。
孝王朝，因燕昆弟饮。
是时，上未立太子，酒酣，上从容曰： 千秋万岁后传王。
太后欢。
婴引卮酒进上曰： 天下者，高祖天下，父子相传，汉之约也，上何以得传梁王！
太后由此憎婴。婴亦薄其官，因病免。
太后除婴门籍，不得朝请。
孝景三年，吴、楚反、上察宗室诸窦无如婴贤，召入见，固让谢，称病不足任。
太后亦惭。
于是上曰： 天下方有急，王孙宁可以让邪？
translation: 
Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin.
Tracing back to his father, he has lived in Guanjin for generations and likes to entertain guests.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Baoying was the prime minister of Wu State, but was dismissed due to illness.
Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne and appointed Dou Ying as Zhan Shi.
Emperor Xiaojing's younger brother, King Liang Xiao, was doted on by his mother, Queen Mother Dou.
Once, when King Xiao of Liang entered the court, Emperor Xiaojing drank with his brothers.
There was no crown prince at this time, and when everyone had finished drinking, Emperor Xiaojing said calmly: After my death, I will pass the throne to King Liang.
Queen Mother Dou was very happy to hear this.
At this time, Dou Ying brought a glass of wine to the emperor and said: The world belongs to Emperor Gaozu, and the throne should be passed down from father to son. This is a legal restriction of the Han Dynasty. How can the emperor pass it on to King Liang?
The Queen Mother hated Bao Ying because of this, and Dou Ying also felt that Zhan Shi's official position was too young, so she resigned due to illness.
The Empress Dowager then removed the name list that allowed Dou Ying to enter and leave the palace. During festivals, he was not allowed to enter the palace to see him.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wu and Chu rebelled. At this time, the emperor investigated and found that neither the Liu clan nor the Dou family members were as wise as Dou Ying, so he recruited Dou Ying. After Dou Ying came to see him, he resolutely declined, saying that he was ill and could not take on this important task.
The Queen Mother also felt ashamed.
The emperor said: "Now the world is in crisis, how can Wang Sun refuse?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃拜婴为大将军，赐金千斤。
婴言爰盎、栾布诸名将贤士在家者进之。
所赐金，陈廊庑下，军吏过，辄令财取为用，金无入家者。
婴守荥阳，监齐、赵兵。
七国破，封为魏其侯。
游士宾客争归之。
每朝议大事，条侯、魏其，列侯莫敢与亢礼。
四年，立栗太子，以婴为傅。
七年，栗太子废，婴争弗能得，谢病，屏居蓝田南山下数月，诸窦宾客辩士说，莫能来。
梁人高遂乃说婴曰： 能富贵将军者，上也；能亲将军者，太后也。
今将军傅太子，太子废，争不能拔，又不能死，自引谢病，拥赵女屏闲处而不朝，只加怼自明，扬主之过。
translation: 
So he made Dou Ying a general and rewarded him with a thousand pieces of gold.
At this time, Yuan An, Le Bu and other famous generals and wise men retired from their posts and stayed at home, so Dou Ying recommended them to Emperor Jing to recruit them.
Dou Ying placed all the gold given to him by the emperor in the hallway. Whenever his military officials came to see him, he would ask them to use the gold according to their own expenses. He never took the gold given by the emperor to his private residence.
Dou Ying sat in Rongyang and supervised the armies of Qi and Zhao.
After the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms was put down, Dou Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Wei.
At this time, many tourists and guests rushed to join Wei Qihou's family.
Whenever Emperor Xiaojing went to court to discuss important matters with his ministers, all the princes would not dare to treat him with courtesy like Tiaohou and Wei Qihou.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he established Prince Li and ordered Wei Qihou to be the prince's teacher.
In the seventh year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Prince Li was deposed. Wei Qihou argued for Prince Li many times, but to no avail. Wei Qihou claimed that he was ill and stayed at the foot of Nanshan Mountain in Lantian for several months. People named Dou, many guests and debaters asked him to come out, but he was unwilling to come out.
Liang Guoren Zhisui said to Bin Ying: The one who can make you rich is the emperor, and the one who can make you a confidant of the court is the Queen Mother.
Now the general is the master of the prince. The prince has been deposed and cannot fight for it. He cannot fight hard and cannot die. He retires due to illness, embraces a beautiful singer, and lives in Nanshan, refusing to go to the capital to see him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
有如两宫奭将军，则妻子无类矣。
婴然之，乃起，朝请如故。
桃侯免相，窦太后数言魏其。
景帝曰： 太后岂以臣有爱相魏其者？
魏其沾沾自喜耳，多易，难以为相持重。
遂不用，用建陵侯卫绾为丞相。
田蚡，孝景王皇后同母弟也，生长陵。
窦婴已为大将军，方盛，蚡为诸曹郎，未贵，往来侍酒婴所，跪起如子姓。
及孝景晚节，蚡益贵幸，为中大夫。
辩有口，学《盘盂》诸书，王皇后贤之。
孝景崩，武帝初即位，蚡以舅封为武安侯，弟胜为周阳侯。
translation: 
Comparing these situations, it is obvious that you are exposing the emperor's fault.
If the emperor and the queen mother are dissatisfied with you and want to harm you, then your wife and children will be killed, and no one in the family will be left.
Dou Ying thought what he said was right, so he resumed his duties and went to court to see the emperor as before.
When Taohou was removed from his position midway, Empress Dowager Dou repeatedly recommended Wei Qihou to be the prime minister. Emperor Xiaojing said: Does the Queen Mother think that I am stingy by not letting Wei Qihou become prime minister?
Wei Qihou was proud and complacent, and often acted rashly and casually. It was difficult for him to be the prime minister and shoulder important responsibilities.
In the end, he was not appointed, but Wei Wan, Marquis of Jianling, was appointed as prime minister.
Tian Fu was the half-brother of Emperor Xiaojing and Queen Wang, and was born in Changling.
After Dou Ying became the general, he was in his prime. Tian Fu, then a minister and not yet a nobleman, went to and from Dou Ying's house, accompanying Yi Ying to drink, kneeling and rising, as if he were a junior member of the Dou family.
In the later years of Emperor Xiaojing's life, Danxuan became more and more noble and fortunate, and became a middle-aged doctor.
Tian Fu was very talented in literature and had studied some ancient books such as "Pan Yu". Queen Wang thought he was very talented.
Emperor Xiaojing passed away and Emperor Wu Liu Che had just ascended the throne. Tian Fu was named Marquis of Wu'an as his uncle, and Tian Sheng, Tian Fu's younger brother, was named Marquis of Zhou Yang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
蚡新用事，卑下宾客，进名士家居者贵之，欲以倾诸将相。
上所填抚，多蚡宾客计策。
会丞相绾病免，上议置丞相、太尉。
藉福说蚡曰： 魏其侯贵久矣，素天下士归之。
今将军初兴，未如，即上以将军为相，必让魏其。
魏其为相，将军必为太尉。
太尉、相尊等耳，有让贤名。
蚡乃微言太后风上，于是乃以婴为丞相，蚡为太尉。
藉福贺婴，因吊曰： 君侯资性喜善疾恶，方今善人誉君侯，故至丞相；然恶人众，亦且毁君侯。
君侯能兼容，则幸久；不能，今以毁去矣。
婴不听。
婴、蚡俱好儒术，推毂赵绾为御史大夫，王臧为郎中令。
迎鲁申公，欲设明堂，令列侯就国，除关，以礼为服制，以兴太平。
translation: 
Tian Fu had just gained power and was very humble to his retainers. He also introduced those who had not served as officials among his retainers and made them serve as officials, hoping to overwhelm the power of the generals and ministers in the court.
Most of the emperor's efforts to calm the political situation at that time were planned by Tian Fu's guests.
When the Prime Minister Wei Wan was dismissed due to illness, the Emperor discussed setting up the Prime Minister and the Taiwei.
He persuaded Tian Fu to borrow the opportunity and said: "Wei Qihou has been a noble man for a long time, and all the talents in the world have always been loyal to him. General, you have just become more prosperous and cannot be compared with Wei Qihou."
Even if the emperor intends to use the general as prime minister, the general must give up the position to Wei Qihou.
When Wei Qihou becomes prime minister, the general will definitely become a Taiwei.
The noble status of the Taiwei and the Prime Minister are the same. The general not only gets the Taiwei, but also has a good reputation of giving his position to the wise.
Tian Fu secretly revealed his thoughts to the Queen Mother and asked the Queen Mother to hint to the emperor. So Dou Ying was made prime minister and Tian Fu was made Taiwei.
I congratulated Dou Ying by taking advantage of his blessings, and advised him by the way: The nature of a prince is to like good and hate evil. Now good people praise the prince, so the prince can be the prime minister. But there are many evil people, and they will also slander the king.
If the ruler can be tolerant to both good and bad people, then the ruler's position is expected to last for a long time; otherwise, he will be slandered and leave his job immediately.
Dou Ying didn't listen to him.
Dou Ying and Tian Fu both liked Confucianism, so they elected Zhao Wan as the imperial censor and Wang Zang as the doctor.
Welcoming Lord Shen of Lu State to the capital and preparing to set up a Mingtang. Let the princes return to their respective fiefdoms, cancel the confinement, and uniform them according to ancient rituals to show peace.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
举谪诸窦宗室无行者，除其属籍。
诸外家为列侯，列侯多尚公主，皆不欲就国，以故毁日至窦太后。
太后好黄、老言，而婴、蚡、赵绾等务隆推儒术，贬道家言，是以窦太后滋不说。
二年，御史大夫赵绾请毋奏事东宫。
窦太后大怒，曰： 此欲复为新垣平邪！
乃罢逐赵绾、王臧，而免丞相婴、太尉蚡，以柏至侯许昌为丞相，武强侯庄青翟为御史大夫。
婴、蚡以侯家居。
蚡虽不任职，以王太后故亲幸，数言事，多效，士吏趋势利者皆去婴而归蚡。
蚡日益横。
六年，窦太后崩，丞相昌、御史大夫青翟坐丧事不办，免。
上以蚡为丞相，大司农韩安国为御史大夫。
天下士郡诸侯愈益附蚡。
蚡为人貌侵，生贵甚。
又以为诸侯王多长，上初即位，富于春秋，蚡以肺附为相，非痛折节以礼屈之，天下不肃。
translation: 
He also reported all the descendants of the sinister clan and the clan, and all those with bad conduct would be removed from the genealogy.
At this time, the princes of the foreign relatives married many princesses and were unwilling to return to their fiefdoms. Therefore, the slanderous words of Dou Ying and others reached the ears of Queen Mother Dou every day.
The Queen Mother was interested in Huang Lao's scholarship, but Dou Ying, Tian Fu, Zhao Wan and others insisted on respecting Confucianism and belittling Taoism. Therefore, Queen Mother Dou became increasingly dissatisfied with Dou Ying and others.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, did not want the Queen Mother to continue to interfere in political affairs, so he asked the emperor not to make trouble against the Queen Mother in the future.
When Empress Dowager Dou found out, she was furious and said, "Are you trying to repeat Aragaki Ping's tricks?"
So Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were dismissed and expelled, and Dou Ying was removed from the post of prime minister and Tian Fu from the post of Taiwei. In addition, Bai Zhi Hou Xuchang was appointed as the prime minister, and Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai was appointed as the censor.
From then on, Dou Ying and Tian Fu only lived at home as Hou.
Although Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, did not hold an official position, he was still favored by the emperor because of his relationship with the Queen Mother. He discussed political affairs many times, and most of them were adopted and came into effect. Those officials and scholars who were in favor of others left Wei Qihou Dou Ying and joined Tian Fu.
As a result, Marquis Wu'an became more and more arrogant day by day.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. Prime Minister Xuchang and Yushi doctor Zhuang Qingzhai were removed from their official positions because they failed to organize the funeral.
The emperor then appointed Tian Fu as the prime minister and the chief minister Nong Han Anguo as the censor.
As a result, the scholars of the world, the officials of the prefectures, and the princes and kings became even more attached to Wu'an Marquis Tian Fu.
Tian Fu is ugly in appearance but considers himself to be very noble by nature.
He believed that the princes and kings at that time were all older, and the emperor had just ascended the throne and was very young. Tian Fu himself regarded the emperor's closest relative as the prime minister. If he did not thoroughly rectify the situation and use etiquette to restrain them, the people of the world would not obey.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
当是时，丞相入奏事，语移日，所言皆听。
荐人或起家至二千石，权移主上。
上乃曰： 君除吏尽未？
吾亦欲除吏。
尝请考工地益宅，上怒曰： 遂取武库！
是后乃退。
召客饮，坐其兄盖侯北乡，自坐东乡，以为汉相尊，不可以兄故私桡。
由此滋骄，治宅甲诸第，田园极膏腴，市买郡县器物相属于道。
前堂罗钟鼓，立曲旃；后房妇女以百数。
诸奏珍物狗马玩好，不可胜数。
而婴失窦太后，益疏不用，无势，诸公稍自引而怠骜，唯灌夫独否。
故婴墨墨不得意，而厚遇夫也。灌夫字仲孺，颍阴人也。
translation: 
At that time, the prime minister would often sit there for most of the day when he came in to perform business, and the emperor accepted all his suggestions.
Some of the people he recommended reached the position of two thousand stones, and their power almost exceeded that of the emperor.
The emperor then said: Have you used up all the people you want to appoint?
I also want to appoint a few people!
Once, he asked the emperor to allocate the official land of the examination room for him to expand his private residence. The emperor was furious and said to him: Why don't you take away my arsenal too?
After this time, he restrained himself a little.
Once, he invited guests to a banquet and asked his elder brother Gaihou to sit facing north, but he sat facing east. He believed that the prime minister of the Han Dynasty was noble and he could not wrong himself in private just because he was his elder brother.
From then on, Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, became even more arrogant. The residences he built were extremely gorgeous and majestic, surpassing those of all nobles. His fields and manors are extremely fertile, and there is an endless stream of people he sends to counties to buy valuable artifacts on the road.
There are bells, drums and music in the front hall, and there are hundreds of women in the back room.
The treasures, dogs, horses, antiques and furnishings presented to him by the princes are countless.
Contrary to Tian Fu, Wei Qihou Dou Ying became even more alienated, not reused, and had no power since the death of Queen Mother Dou. All the guests gradually retreated and even treated Dou Ying with arrogance. Only Guan Fu still treated him the same way.
Dou Ying felt depressed every day, but he only had a particularly good relationship with Guan Fu. Guan Fu, courtesy name Zhongru, was born in Yingyin.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
父张孟，尝为颍阴侯灌婴舍人，得幸，因进之，至二千石，故蒙灌氏姓为灌孟。
吴、楚反时，颍阴侯灌婴为将军，属太尉，请孟为校尉。
夫以千人与父俱。
孟年老，颍阴侯强请之，郁郁不得意，故战常陷坚，遂死吴军中。
汉法，父子俱，有死事，得与丧归，夫不肯随丧归。
奋曰： 愿取吴王若将军头以报父仇！
于是夫被甲持戟，募军中壮士所善愿从数十人。及出壁门，莫敢前。独两人及从奴十余骑驰入吴军，至戏下，所杀伤数十人。
不得前，复还走汉壁，亡其奴，独与一骑归。
translation: 
His father was Zhang Meng, who had once been the servant of Guan Ying, the Marquis of Yingyin. He was very favored, so he promoted him to an official of two thousand shi, so he took the surname of Guan and changed his name to Guan Meng.
When Wu and Chu were in power, Guan Ying, Marquis of Yingyin, was a general and was subordinate to Taiwei Zhou Yafu. He recommended Guan Meng to the Taiwei as a school lieutenant.
Guan Fu also brought a thousand people with him to be with his father.
At that time, Guan Meng was already very old, and the Taiwei did not want to use him. However, because Marquis Yingyin firmly recommended him, he agreed to let Guan Meng be the captain. Therefore, Guan Meng was depressed and frustrated. Whenever he fought, he often broke into the enemy's strong points, so he died in the Wu army.
According to the military law of the Han Dynasty at that time: if both father and son were in the army, and if someone died in the war, the surviving people could escort the remains back to their hometowns.
But Guanfu refused to do this. He said impassionedly: I am willing to behead the king of Wu or the general of Wu to avenge my father.
So Guan Fu put on his armor and held a halberd, and recruited dozens of strong men in the army who were friendly with him and willing to go with him. When they walked out of the gate of the military camp, no one dared to go forward. Only two people and more than ten slaves under Guan Fu's horse rushed into the Wu army and attacked until they were under the Wu army's general flag, killing and wounding dozens of people.
Because he could no longer attack, he rushed back to the Han army's camp. All the slaves he brought out died in the battle, and only he and a knight returned.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫身中大创十余，适有万金良药，故得无死。
创少瘳，又复请将军曰： 吾益知吴壁曲折，请复往。
将军壮而义之，恐亡夫，乃言太尉，太尉召固止之。
吴军破，夫以此名闻天下。
颍阴侯言夫，夫为郎中将。
数岁，坐法去，家居长安中，诸公莫不称，由是复为代相。
武帝即位，以为淮阳天下郊，劲兵处，故徙夫为淮阳太守。
人为太仆。
二年，夫与长乐卫尉窦甫饮，轻重不得，夫醉，搏甫。
甫，窦太后昆弟。上恐太后诛夫，徙夫为燕相。
数岁，坐法免，家居长安。
夫为人刚直，使酒，不好面谀。
translation: 
Guan Fu suffered more than a dozen serious injuries on his body. He happened to have precious medicine to heal the wounds, so he survived.
Guan Fu's wounds recovered slightly, and he asked the general again: "I now know more about the twists and turns of the Wu camp. Please allow me to go there again."
The general admired Guan Fu's courage and sympathized with his behavior. He was worried that Guan Fu's life would be in danger if he went again, so he reported it to the Taiwei, who then firmly stopped him and refused to let him go.
When the Wu army was defeated, Guan Fu became famous all over the world.
Marquis Yingyin reported Guan Fu's situation to the emperor, and the emperor appointed Guan Fu as lieutenant general.
A few years later, I lost my official position for breaking the law. Guan Fu's family was in Chang'an, and many dignitaries in the capital praised him, so he later became the Prime Minister.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he believed that Huaiyang County was a place where the world's traffic radiated, and a strong force must be stationed to defend it, so he appointed Guan Fu as the prefect of Huaiyang.
In the first year of Jianyuan, he was transferred to Taipu.
In the second year of Jianyuan's reign, Guan Fu and Dou Fu, the Changle guard captain, had a dispute while drinking together. Guan Fu was already drunk at the time, so he beat Dou Fu.
Dou Fu was originally the brother of the Empress Dowager Dou. The Emperor was afraid that the Empress Dowager would kill Guan Fu and transfer him to the position of Prime Minister of Yan.
A few years later, he was disgraced for breaking the law and lived idle at home in Chang'an.
Guan Fu is an upright person, he likes to use alcohol to make himself angry, and he doesn't like to flatter others in person.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
贵戚诸势在己之右，欲必陵之；士在己左，愈贫贱，尤益礼敬，与钧。
稠人广众，荐宠下辈。士亦以此多之。
夫不好文学，喜任侠，已然诺。
诸所与交通，无非豪桀大猾。
家累数千万，食客日数十百人。
波池田园，宗族宾客为权利，横颍川。
颍川儿歌之曰： 颍水清，灌氏宁；颍水浊，灌氏族。
夫家居，卿相侍中宾客益衰。
及窦婴失势，亦欲倚夫引绳排根生平慕之后弃者。夫亦得婴通列侯宗室为名高。
两人相为引重，其游如父子然，相得欢甚，无厌，恨相知之晚。
夫尝有服，过丞相蚡。
translation: 
For those noble relatives or generally powerful people who were above Guan Fu, he not only refused to show respect to them, but also tried to find ways to insult them. The poorer the ordinary scholars were below him, the more respectful Guan Fu was to them and treated them with equal etiquette.
In crowded situations, Guan Fu always praises and praises low-status juniors, so most people praise him.
Guan Fu didn't like learning, but he liked chivalry and would always do what he promised.
Those who associate with him are nothing more than heroes, knights, or cunning people.
His family's assets are tens of millions, and the number of diners every day ranges from dozens to nearly a hundred.
He built pits in his fields to store water for irrigation purposes. In order to monopolize the water conservancy fields, Guanfu's clan guests often fought for power and became rampant in the Yingchuan area.
So the children in Yingchuan sang: If the Yingshui is clear, the Guan family will be at peace; if the Yingshui is dirty, the Guan family will be destroyed.
Although Guan Fu's family was wealthy, they lost their power. As a result, the ministers, ministers, and those who had always been Guan Fu's guests gradually distanced themselves from him.
When Dou Ying lost power, he also wanted to rely on Guan Fu to settle accounts with those who followed Yan's influence. Guan Fu also wanted to use Dou Ying's relationship to make friends with the princes and clan members to increase his social status.
Therefore, the two of them respected each other and were as close as father and son. The two of them were very compatible and had no objections. They just regretted that it was too late for them to know each other.
Guan Fu's sister passed away, and Guan Fu went to visit the Prime Minister Tian Fu during the period of mourning.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
蚡从容曰： 吾欲与仲孺过魏其侯，会仲孺有服。
夫曰： 将军乃肯幸临况魏其侯，夫安敢以服为解！
请语魏其具，将军旦日蚤临。
蚡许诺。
夫以语婴。婴与夫人益市牛酒，夜洒扫张具至旦。
平明，令门下侯司。
至日中，蚡不来。
婴谓夫曰： 丞相岂忘之哉？
夫不怿，曰： 夫以服请，不宜。
乃驾，自往迎蚡。
蚡特前戏许夫，殊无意往。
夫至门，蚡尚卧也。
于是夫见，曰： 将军昨日幸许过魏其，魏其夫妻治县，至今未敢尝食。
蚡悟，谢曰： 吾醉，忘与仲孺言。
乃驾往。往又徐行，夫愈益怒。
及饮酒酣，夫起舞属蚡，蚡不起。夫徙坐，语侵之。
婴乃扶夫去，谢蚡。
蚡卒饮至夜，极欢而去。
translation: 
The prime minister said calmly: "I want to visit Wei Qihou with you. It happens that you are in mourning and it is inconvenient to go."
Guan Fu said: "The general is actually willing to come to Wei Qihou's home. How dare I refuse because of mourning?"
Let me inform Wei Qihou and ask him to prepare wine and food. Please come early tomorrow.
Tian Fu then agreed.
Guan Fu told Wei Qihou Baoying the details of his appointment with the prime minister. Dou Ying and his wife specially bought more meat and wine. They got up at night to clean, prepare wine and food, and were busy until dawn.
At dawn, he asked his servants to wait in front of the house.
But at noon, Prime Minister Tian Fu still didn't come.
Dou Ying said to Guan Fu, "Has the Prime Minister forgotten?"
Guanfu was very unhappy and said, "I don't mind asking him to keep his promise during the mourning period. He should come himself and should not forget."
So Guan Fu drove his car and went to meet the prime minister in person.
Prime Minister Tian Fu just agreed to Guan Fu the day before and had no intention of actually going to the banquet.
When Guan Fu came, the prime minister was still lying down.
So Guan Fu went in to see him and said, "General, I was fortunate enough to agree to visit Wei Qihou yesterday." Wei Qihou and his wife organized a banquet, but from early morning to now, they have not dared to eat anything!
Wu Anhou pretended to be stunned and apologized to Guan Fu, saying: I was drunk yesterday and forgot what I said to you.
So he ordered him to go, but he went very slowly, which made Guanfu even more angry.
When the wine was almost done, Guan Fu started dancing, and after the dance invited the prime minister, but the prime minister didn't get up, so Guan Fu used words to offend the prime minister during the banquet.
Dou Ying helped Guan Fu leave and apologized to the prime minister in person.
Prime Minister Tian Fu drank wine until dark before leaving happily.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
后蚡使藉福请婴城南田，婴大望曰： 老仆虽弃，将军虽贵，宁可以势相夺乎！
不许。
夫闻，怒骂福。
福恶两人有隙，乃谩好谢蚡曰： 魏其老且死，易忍，且待之。
已而蚡闻婴、夫实怒不予，亦怒曰： 魏其子尝杀人，蚡活之。
蚡事魏其无所不可，爱数顷田？
且灌夫何与也？
吾不敢复求田！
由此大怒。
元光四年春，蚡言灌夫家在颍川，横甚，民苦之。
请案之。上曰： 此丞相事，何请？
夫亦持蚡阴事，为奸利，受淮南王金与语言。
宾客居间，遂已，俱解。
translation: 
Later, Prime Minister Tian Fu asked Dou Ying to give him the land in the south of the city to take advantage of his blessings. Dou Ying said very unhappy: Although I, an old man, have been abandoned by the court, and the general is noble, can I use my power to seize my land?
Refuse to agree.
When my husband heard about this, he cursed me for being lucky.
Not wanting Dou and Tian to be at odds with each other, he made up some good words and said to the prime minister: Wei Qihou is old and is about to die. It's not difficult to endure it for a few more days. Let's wait.
Soon, Tian Fu heard that Dou Ying and Guan Fu were actually angry and refused to give him the land. He also got angry and said, "The son of Wei Qihou once committed a serious crime of murder, and I saved him."
I serve Wei Qihou, and I refuse to obey him on anything. Why is he reluctant to part with these few hectares of fields?
Besides, what does this have to do with Guan Fu!
I don't dare to ask for this land anymore.
From then on, Tian Fu became very resentful towards Dou Ying and Guan Fu.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuanguang, the Prime Minister reported that Guan Fu's family was extremely arrogant in Yingchuan and the people suffered from it, and asked the emperor to investigate Guan Fu.
The emperor said: This is a matter within the prime minister's duties, why should I ask for instructions?
Guan Fu also seized on the prime minister's shortcomings as threats, including the prime minister using illegal means to pursue personal interests, accepting property from the King of Huainan, and saying things he shouldn't have said.
Later, thanks to the mediation and persuasion between the guests of the two families, the two sides stopped attacking each other and reconciled with each other.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夏，蚡取燕王女为夫人，太后诏召列侯宗室皆往贺。
婴过夫，欲与俱。
夫谢曰： 夫数以酒失过丞相，丞相今者又与夫有隙。
婴曰： 事已解。
强与俱。
酒酣，蚡起为寿，坐皆避席伏。
已婴为寿，独故人避席，余半膝席。
夫行酒，至蚡，蚡膝席曰： 不能满觞。
夫怒，因嘻笑曰： 将军贵人也，毕之！
时蚡不肯。
行酒次至临汝侯灌贤，贤方与程不识耳语，又不避席。
夫无所发怒，乃骂贤曰： 平生毁程不识不直一钱，今日长者为寿，乃效女曹儿呫嗫耳语！
蚡谓夫曰： 程、李俱东西宫卫尉，今众辱程将军，仲孺独不为李将军地乎？
夫曰： 今曰斩头穴匈，何知程、李！
translation: 
In the summer of that year, Prime Minister Tian Fu married the daughter of King Yan as his wife. The Queen Mother issued an edict asking all the princes and clan members to go to congratulate her.
Dou Ying went to visit Guan Fu and wanted to invite him to go with him.
Guan Fu declined and said, "I have offended the prime minister many times because of my drunkenness and impoliteness, and the prime minister has recently had a grudge against me."
Dou Ying said: This matter has been settled.
So he reluctantly asked Guanfu to go with him.
When the wine was almost done, the prime minister stood up and toasted to everyone. All the guests left their seats and fell on the ground, expressing their disapproval.
After a while, Wei Qihou Dou Ying stood up to propose a toast. Only those who had old acquaintances with him left their seats, and the other half of the people just sat there without even leaving the table.
Guan Fu got up and left his seat, and toasted to Tian Fu one after another. When he came to Tian Fu, Tian Fu still sat there and said, "I can't drink a full cup anymore."
Guan Fu was very angry and said with a smile: "You are a noble man, but you still have to drink a full cup!"
But Tian Fu refused to toast.
A toast came to Lin Ruhou Guan Xian. Guan Xian was talking quietly to Cheng Bushi without moving away from his seat.
Guan Fu was so angry that he had nowhere to vent his anger, so he scolded Guan Xian and said, "Normally, it is worthless to slander Cheng Bu Shi. Now that the elders are toasting you, you are just like a girl, biting your ears and talking to Cheng Bu Shi."
Tian Fu said to Guan Fu: Cheng and Li are both guards in the East and West Palaces. Now that you insult Cheng Bushi in public, won't you leave room for your beloved General Li?
Guan Fu said, "I don't care if you kill my head or pierce my chest today. What else do I care about Cheng and Li?"


Chunk 12: 
original: 
坐乃起更衣，稍稍去。
婴去，戏夫。
夫出，蚡遂怒曰： 此吾骄灌夫罪也。
乃令骑留夫，夫不得出。
藉福起为谢，案夫项令谢。
夫愈怒，不肯顺。
蚡乃戏骑缚夫置传舍，召长史曰： 今日召宗室，有诏。
劾灌夫骂坐不敬，系居室。
遂其前事，遣吏分曹逐捕诸灌氏支属，皆得弃市罪。
婴愧，为资使宾客请，莫能解。
蚡吏皆为耳目，诸灌氏皆仁匿，夫系，遂不得告言蚡阴事。
婴锐为救夫，婴夫人谏曰： 灌将军得罪丞相，与太后家迕，宁可救邪？
translation: 
Seeing that the situation was not good, the guests at the table got up and excused themselves to go to the toilet, and gradually dispersed.
Shi Ying also stood up and left, waving to Guan Fu to leave quickly.
When Guan Fu had just left, Tian Fu said angrily: "It's my fault, because I spoiled him so much that he became so presumptuous."
He ordered his knights to detain Guan Fu so that Guan Fu could not leave.
Taking advantage of the blessing, he quickly got up and apologized to the prime minister for Guan Fu. He pressed his hand on Guan Fu's neck and asked him to bow his head and apologize.
Guan Fu became even more angry and refused to apologize.
Tian Gou then ordered the knights to tie up Guan Fu and keep him in the transfer house. He also called for Chang Shi and said to him: "Today we invite guests from the royal family to a banquet here in accordance with the order of the Queen Mother Shao."
So Guan Fu was impeached, saying that he insulted the guests at the banquet, insulted Shao Ling, and committed the crime of disrespect. He was imprisoned in the living room.
At the same time, a thorough investigation was made of Guan Fu's various illegal activities in Yingchuan, and officers were dispatched to arrest relatives of each branch of the Guan family. They were all sentenced to death by beheading in public.
Dou Ying felt so ashamed that he paid and sent guests to plead with the prime minister, but in the end he could not get Guan Fu released.
Since Tian Fu's subordinates were all the prime minister's eyes and ears, the people in Guan's family who had slipped through the net were all running away and hiding, and Guan Fu himself was being detained, so he could not report all the bad things Tian Fu had done secretly.
Dou Ying desperately tried to rescue Guan Fu, but his wife persuaded him: General Guan offended the prime minister and went against the Queen Mother's family. Can he be saved?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
婴曰： 侯自我得之，自我捐之，无所恨。
且终不令灌仲孺独死，婴独生。
乃匿其家，窃出上书。
立召人，具告言灌夫醉饱事，不足诛。上然之，赐婴食，曰： 东朝廷辩之。
婴东朝，盛推夫善，言其醉饱得过，乃丞相以它事诬罪之。
蚡盛毁夫所为横恣，罪逆不道。
婴度无可奈何，因言蚡短。
蚡曰： 天下幸而安乐无事，蚡得为肺附，所好音乐、狗马、田宅，所爱倡优、巧匠之属，不如魏其、灌夫日夜招聚天下豪杰壮士与论议，腹诽而心谤，卬视天，俯画地，辟睨两官间，幸天下有变，而欲有大功。臣乃不如魏其等所为。
translation: 
Dou Ying said: I earned the Marquis by myself, and now I throw it away without any regrets.
Besides, I can't let Guan Zhongru die alone, while I, Dou Ying, live alone.
So he went out privately to write to the emperor without telling his family.
The emperor read the memorial of Wei Qihou Dou Ying and immediately summoned him into the palace. Dou Ying explained in detail the situation where Guan Fu made a mistake because he was drunk at the banquet, and believed that it was just a trivial matter of excessive drinking and not worthy of the death penalty. The emperor agreed with him, so he gave Dou Ying a meal together and said to him: "You can go to the Empress Dowager of the Eastern Dynasty to plead her case in court."
When Dou Ying arrived in the Eastern Dynasty, he praised Guan Fu's merits and said that he made a blunder while drunk, but the prime minister used other crimes to frame Guan Fu.
Tian Fu then tried his best to slander Guan Fu for what he had done, which was arrogant and indulgent, and committed the crime of treason.
Baoying had no other choice but to attack the prime minister's shortcomings.
Tian Xidian said: Fortunately, everything in the world is peaceful and peaceful. Xizhi can be an important minister of the court and likes music, dogs, horses, and fields. What I like is just people who advocate excellence and skillful craftsmen. Unlike Wei Qihou and Guan Fu, who summon the heroes of the world and discuss with them day and night, full of dissatisfaction with the court, they either raise their eyes to look at the sky, or lower their heads to draw on the ground with their hands, squinting at the two palaces, hoping that there will be some unexpected changes in the world so that they can achieve great things and make great achievements. But I don't know what Wei Qihou and the others are going to do!


Chunk 14: 
original: 
上问朝臣： 两人孰是？
御史大夫韩安国曰： 魏其言灌夫父死事，身荷戟驰不测之吴军，身被数十创，名冠三军，此天下壮士，非有大恶，争杯酒，不足引它过以诛也。
魏其言是。
丞相亦言灌夫通奸猾，侵细民，家累巨万，横恣颍川，輘轹宗室，侵犯骨肉，此所谓 支大于干，胫大于股，不折必披 。丞相信亦是。
唯明主裁之。
主爵都尉汲黯是魏其。
内史郑当时是魏其，后不坚。余皆莫敢对。
上怒内史曰： 公平生数言魏其、武安长短，今日廷论，局趣效辕下驹，吾并斩若属矣！
即罢起入，上食太后。
translation: 
So the emperor asked the ministers at court: Which of the two of them is right?
Yushi doctor Han Anguo said: Wei Qihou said that when his father died for the country, Guan Fu rushed into the powerful Wu army with a halberd and suffered dozens of wounds on his body. His reputation for bravery was high among the three armies. He is a rare strong man in the world. If he has not committed a particularly serious crime, just to cause a verbal dispute after drinking is not worthy of the death penalty by citing other charges.
What Wei Qihou said is right.
The Prime Minister said that Guan Fu associates with big traitors and cunning people, oppresses the common people, owns tens of millions of gold, runs rampant in Yingchuan, insults the clan, and violates the flesh and blood. This is what is called "the branches are greater than the roots, and the courage of the legs is greater than the thighs. If it is not broken, it must be divided." The Prime Minister's words are not bad.
We can only ask the wise Lord to decide the rights and wrongs between the two families.
The Lord Commander Ji An believed that what Wei Qihou said was correct.
The internal historian Zheng also accepted what Wei Qihou said at the time, but later he did not dare to insist on his own opinion to answer the emperor.
The rest of the people didn't dare to answer correctly. The emperor became angry and said to the internal history: You have often discussed the merits of Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou, but today at the court debate, you cowered like a horse under the shaft of a chariot, not daring to express your opinions clearly.
I want to kill this group of people.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
太后亦已使人候司，具以语太后。太后怒，不食，曰： 我在也，而人皆藉吾弟，令我百岁后，皆鱼肉之乎！
且帝宁能为石人邪！
此特帝在，即录录，设百岁后，是属宁有可信者乎？
上谢曰： 俱外家，故廷辨之。不然，此一狱吏所决耳。
是时，郎中令石建为上分别言两人。
蚡已罢朝，出止车门，召御史大夫安国载，怒曰： 与长孺共一秃翁，何为首鼠两端？
安国良久谓蚡曰： 君何不自喜！
夫魏其毁君，君当免冠解印绶归，曰 臣以肺附幸得待罪，固非其任，魏其言皆是。 如此，上必多君有让，不废君。
魏其必愧，杜门齿齰舌自杀。
今人毁君，君亦毁之，譬如要竖女子争言，何其无大体也！
蚡谢曰： 争时争，不知出此。
translation: 
So the emperor got up from court and went in to serve the Queen Mother for dinner. The Queen Mother had also sent people to the court to inquire about the news. At this time, those inquiring people reported the details of the court debate to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother was angry and stopped eating and said: Now that I am still alive, others are already killing my brother; if I seek death, others will definitely come to slaughter my brother.
Besides, how could the emperor be like the stone man and not make his own opinions?
Fortunately, the emperor is still here, so these ministers can only echo what he says. If the emperor dies, will these people still be reliable?
The emperor apologized and said: The two families of Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou are relatives, so they debated in the court; otherwise, only one jailer can solve the problem.
At that time, the doctor ordered Shi Jian to tell the emperor privately about the feud between Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou.
After Tian Fu retired from the court, he walked out of the carriage door and asked Han Anguo, the imperial censor, to sit in the carriage with him. He said angrily: You and I will deal with an old bald man together. What's so difficult about it? Why are you always hesitant?
After a long time, Han Anguo said to Tian Fu: Why don't you respect yourself so much?
Since Wei Qihou has slandered you just now, you should apologize to the emperor without your crown, remove the seal and ribbon of the prime minister, return it to the emperor, and say: I am a close relative of the emperor, and I am fortunate to be prime minister. I was not qualified for the job. Wei Qihou's criticism of me is right. In this way, the emperor will definitely praise you for your virtue of humility and will not depose you.
When Wei Qihou saw that you were so humble and the emperor sympathized with you, he would definitely commit suicide behind closed doors.
Now when others scold you, you also scold others. In this way, each other is insulting each other, just like businessmen or women quarreling. Why are you so ignorant?
Tian Fu apologized and said: I was too anxious when arguing in the court and did not think of doing this.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
于是上使御史簿责婴所言灌夫颇不雠，劾系都司空。
孝景时，婴尝受遗诏，曰 事有不便，以便宜论上 。
及系，灌夫罪至族，事日急，诸公莫敢复明言于上。
婴乃使昆弟子上书言之，幸得召见。
书奏，案尚书，大行无遗诏。
诏书独臧婴家，婴家丞封。
乃劾婴矫先帝诏害，罪当弃市。
五年十月，悉论灌夫支属。
婴良久乃闻有劾，即阳病痱，不食欲死。
或闻上无意杀婴，复食，治病，议定不死矣。
乃有飞语为恶言闻上，故以十二月晦论弃市渭城。
translation: 
Later, the emperor sent the censor to investigate Guan Fu's case file and found that what Dou Ying said was very inconsistent with the facts. Therefore, Dou Ying was corrected by the censor and was detained in the prison of Dusikong Yamen.
When Emperor Xiaojing was dying, Dou Ying once accepted the edict, and the Shao Shu said: If there is any inconvenience, you can make a note of it.
When Dou Ying was detained, Guan Fu might be sentenced to the crime of genocide. The situation became more and more urgent day by day, and no one among the ministers dared to mention the incident to the emperor again.
Dou Ying had no choice but to ask his nephew to write to the emperor to report the imperial edict, hoping to get a chance to be summoned again.
The memorial was submitted, but when checking the archives of the inner court, there was no sign of Emperor Jing's dying words.
This edict was only kept in Baoying's home and was sealed by his family chief.
So Dou Ying was impeached again, saying that he forged the emperor's edict and should be sentenced to the death penalty of beheading in public.
In October of the fifth year of Yuanguang, Guan Fu and his family were all convicted. It took a long time for Dou Ying to hear the news.
As soon as he heard this, he felt extremely sad and angry, and suffered a serious stroke. He didn't want to eat but wanted to die.
Later, I heard from somewhere that the emperor had no intention of killing him, so he resumed his diet and healed his illness.
The imperial court had decided not to execute Dou Ying, but at this time, rumors spread again, saying a lot of bad things about Dou Ying, deliberately letting the emperor hear it, so on December 30 of that year, Dou Ying was beheaded on the streets of Weicheng.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
春，蚡疾，一身尽痛，若有击者，呼服谢罪。上使视鬼者瞻之，曰： 魏其侯与灌夫共守，笞欲杀之。
竟死。
子恬嗣，元朔中有罪免。
后淮南王安谋反，觉。
始安入朝时，蚡为太尉，迎安霸上，谓安曰： 上未有太子，大王最贤，高祖孙，即宫车晏驾，非大王立，尚谁立哉？
淮南王大喜，厚遗金钱财物。
上自婴、夫事时不直蚡，特为太后故。
及闻淮南事，上曰： 使武安侯在者，族矣。
韩安国字长孺，梁成安人也，后徒睢阳。
尝受《韩子》、杂说邹田生所。事梁孝王，为中大夫。
translation: 
In the spring of the sixth year of Yuanguang, Tian Fu fell ill and felt pain all over his body, as if someone was beating him. He kept shouting loudly, admitting his guilt and apologizing. The emperor invited a wizard who could see ghosts to diagnose his illness. The wizard said: Two ghosts, Wei Qihou and Guan Fu, were guarding Wu'anhou and whipped him with whips to kill him.
Finally died.
His son Tian Tian inherited his father's title. During the Yuan Shuo period, his title was revoked because of his crimes.
Later, the rebellion of Huainan King Liu An was discovered.
A few years ago, the King of Huainan, Liu An, came to Beijing to pay homage. At that time, Tian Fu was the Taiwei and went to Ba Shang to greet the King of Huainan. He said to Liu An: The emperor does not have a prince yet. Your Majesty, you are the wisest and the grandson of the great ancestor. Once the emperor dies, who else should inherit the throne instead of you, the King of Huainan!
The King of Huainan was very happy after hearing this and gave Tian Ai many gold and silver items.
Ever since the incident involving Dou Ying and Guan Fu happened, the emperor did not take Tian Fu's actions seriously and tolerated them just to hinder the Queen Mother.
When the emperor heard about Tian Fu's collusion with King Huainan and the incident of accepting money from King Huainan, he said: If Marquis Wu'an is still there, it is time to exterminate the clan.
Han Anguo, whose courtesy name is Changru, was born in Cheng'an County, Liang State, and later moved to Suiyang.
He once studied "Han Feizi" and the doctrines of Zajia in Tiansheng's place in Zouxian County. Serve King Xiao of Liang and become a great official.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
吴、楚反时，孝王使安国及张羽为将，扞吴兵于东界。
张羽力战，安国持重，以故吴不能过梁。
吴、楚破、安国、张羽名由此显梁。
梁王以至亲故，得自置相、二千石，出入游戏，僣于天子。
天子闻之，心不善。
太后知帝弗善，乃怒梁使者，弗见，案责王所为。
安国为梁使，见大长公主而泣曰： 何梁王为人子之孝，为人臣之忠，而太后曾不省也？
夫前日吴、楚、齐、赵七国反，自关以东皆合从而西向，唯梁最亲，为限难。
梁王念太后、帝在中，而诸侯扰乱，壹言泣数行而下，跪送臣等六人将兵击却吴、楚、吴、楚以故兵不敢西，而卒破亡，梁之力也。
translation: 
When Wu Chu rebelled, King Xiao sent An Guo and Zhang Yu as generals to resist the Wu army in Shu territory.
Because Zhang Yu fought hard and An Guo was mature and prudent, the Wu army could not cross Liang's defense line.
After the Wu Chu rebellion was over, the reputations of Han Anguo and Zhang Yu became prominent in the Liang Kingdom.
Because the King of Liang was a close relative of the royal family, he had the power to nominate candidates for the Prime Minister of Liang and the two thousand officials. His appearance in and out of the palace, and his entertainment, surpassed the status of ministers and was comparable to that of the emperor.
Emperor Han Jing, the emperor at that time, was very unhappy after hearing this.
Empress Dowager Dou knew that the emperor was dissatisfied, so she was angry with the envoys sent by King Liang and refused to receive them. Instead, she accused them of what King Liang had done.
At that time, Han Anguo was the envoy of Liang Dynasty, so he went to see the eldest princess and cried, "Why didn't the Queen Mother clearly understand the filial piety of King Liang as a son and the loyalty as a minister?"
In the past, when the Seven Kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Tang were in power, all the princes who had been separated from each other united to march westward. Only Liang was the closest to the emperor and became a hindrance to the rebels.
The King of Liang often thought of the Queen Mother and the Emperor living in Guanzhong, and the princes rose up in rebellion. Every time he mentioned it, he shed several lines of tears. He knelt to see off his ministers and six other people, leading troops to repel the Wu Chu rebels. Therefore, Wu Chu's army did not dare to cross the Leichi even half a step westward, and was ultimately defeated. This was all the credit of the King of Liang!


Chunk 19: 
original: 
今太后以小苛礼责望梁王。
梁王父兄皆帝王，而所见者大，故出称跸，入言警，车旗皆帝所赐，即以嫮鄙小县，驱驰国中，欲夸诸侯，令天下知太后、帝爱之也。
今梁使来，辄案责之，梁王恐，日夜滋泣思慕，不知所为。
何梁王之忠孝而太后不恤也？
长公主具以告太后，太后喜曰： 为帝言之。
言之，帝心乃解，而免冠谢太后曰： 兄弟不能相教，乃为太后遗忧。
悉见梁使，厚赐之。
其后，梁王益亲欢。
太后、长公主更赐安国直千余金。
由此显，结于汉。
其后，安国坐法抵罪，蒙狱吏田申辱安国。安国曰： 死灰独不复然乎？
甲曰： 然即溺之。
translation: 
Now the Queen Mother blamed King Liang for some small etiquette.
King Liang's father and brother were both emperors, and they were used to seeing grand pomp and show, so when he came in and out for recreation, he would clear the roads and be vigilant like an emperor. The carriages and flags were all given by the emperor. He just wanted to boast to his people in the border towns, and gallop back and forth in the country to show off to the princes, so that everyone in the world would know that the queen mother and the emperor loved him very much.
Now that Liang Envoy has arrived, he is being investigated and held accountable. King Liang was very frightened. He cried and thought day and night, not knowing what to do.
Why was the King of Liang so filial as a son and the most loyal as a minister, but the Queen Mother showed no mercy?
The eldest princess told the Queen Mother all this.
The Queen Mother happily said: I will explain to the Emperor for him. After the explanation, the Emperor felt relieved. He took off his hat and apologized to the Queen Mother and said: My brothers cannot advise each other, but the Queen Mother has made you worry.
So he received all the envoys sent by King Liang and rewarded them heavily.
After that, King Liang became even more favored.
The queen mother and the eldest princess rewarded Han Anguo with property worth about a thousand gold.
As a result, Han Anguo's reputation became more prominent and he established relations with the Han court.
Later, Han Anguo broke the law and was sentenced. Tian Jia, the warden of Meng County, humiliated him and said: Will the ashes that extinguish the fire not burn again?
Tian Jia said: If the fire breaks out again, I will drown it by urinating.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
居无几，梁内史缺，汉使使者拜安国为梁内史，起徒中为二千石。
田甲亡。
安国曰： 甲不就官，我灭而宗。
甲肉袒谢，安国笑曰： 公等足与治乎？
卒善遇之。
内史之缺也，王新得齐人公孙诡，说之，欲请为内史。
窦太后闻，乃诏王以安国为内史。
公孙诡、羊胜说王求为帝太子及益地事，恐汉大臣不听，乃阴使人刺汉用事谋臣。
及杀故吴相爰盎，景帝遂闻诡、胜等计划，乃遣使捕诡、胜，必得。
汉使十辈至梁，相以下举国大索，月余弗得。
安国闻诡、胜匿王所，乃入见王而泣曰： 主辱者臣死。
大王无良臣，故纷纷至此。
今胜、诡不得，请辞赐死。
王曰： 何至此？
安国泣数行下，曰： 大王自度于皇帝，孰与太上皇之与高帝及皇帝与临江王亲？
王曰： 弗如也。
安国曰： 夫太上皇、临江亲父子间，然高帝曰 提三尺取天下者朕也 ，故太上终不得制事，居于栎阳。
临江，適长太子，以一言过，废王临江；用宫垣事，卒自杀中尉府。
何者？
治天下终不用私乱公。
translation: 
Soon after, the position of domestic history of Liang was vacant. The Han court sent an envoy to appoint Han Anguo as internal history of Liang, and promoted him from his disciples to serve as an official of two thousand stones.
Tian Jia abandoned his official position and fled.
Han Anguo said: If Tian Jia doesn't come back and take office, I will annihilate your clan.
Tian Jia then took off his clothes and apologized. Anguo smiled and said: Is a person like you worthy of my punishment?
Finally treat Tian Jia well.
When the internal history of Liang was vacant, King Xiao had just recruited Gongsun Gui from Qi. He liked him very much and wanted to request his appointment as internal history.
After Empress Dowager Dou heard about it, she issued an edict and ordered the King of Liang to appoint Han Anguo as the internal historian.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng lobbied King Xiao and asked him to request to be the heir to the throne and increase the fiefdom. They were afraid that the ministers of the Han court would not agree, so they secretly sent people to assassinate the powerful advisers of Moting.
When Yuan An, the former Prime Minister of Wu, was killed, Emperor Jing heard about the plans of Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others, so he sent people to capture Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
The Han Dynasty sent many envoys to Liang one after another, and a nationwide search was carried out from the Prime Minister of Liang on down. After more than a month, no one was caught.
The internal history of Han Anguo heard that Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others were hiding in Xiaowang's palace, so he went to the palace to see the king and cried and said: If the monarch is humiliated, the ministers should die.
The king has no good ministers, so things have become such a mess.
Now that I can't catch Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng, please let me say goodbye to you and grant my death.
King Liang said: "Why are you doing this?"
Han Anguo burst into tears for several lines and said: The king himself is thinking about the relationship between you and the emperor. Compared with the Supreme Emperor and Emperor Gao, or the emperor and King Linjiang, who is closer?
King Xiao said: Not as good as them.
An Guo said: The Supreme Emperor, Prince Linjiang, Emperor Gao and the Emperor all have a father-son relationship, but Emperor Gao said that I am the one who conquers the world with a three-foot sword, so the Supreme Emperor has never had the right to interfere in political affairs and only lives in Liangyang Palace.
King Linjiang was the eldest prince, but because his mother made a mistake, he was deprived of the title of King Linjiang; and because of the palace wall incident, he finally committed suicide in the Lieutenant's Mansion.
Why is this happening?
Because in governing the world, one cannot harm the public for private reasons.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
语曰： 虽有亲父，安知不为虎？
虽有亲兄，安知不为狼？
今大王列在诸侯，訹邪臣浮说，犯上禁，桡明法。
天子以太后故，不忍致法于大王。
太后日夜涕泣，幸大王自改，大王终不觉寤。
有如太后宫车即晏驾，大王尚谁攀乎？
语未卒，王泣数行而下，谢安国曰： 吾今出之。
即日诡、胜自杀。
汉使还报，梁事皆得释，安国力也。
景帝、太后益重安国。
孝王薨，共王即位，安国坐法失官，家居。
武帝即位，武安侯田蚡为太尉，亲贵用事。
安国以五百金遗蚡，蚡言安国太后，上素闻安国贤，即召以为北地都尉，迁为大司农。
闽、东越相攻，遣安国、大行王恢将兵。
未至越，越杀其王降，汉兵亦罢。
其年，田蚡为丞相，安国为御史大夫。
translation: 
As the saying goes: Although I have a biological father, how do I know that he is not a tiger?
Although he has a biological brother, how do you know that he will not turn into a wolf?
Now the king is a prince, but he listened to the false words of an evil official, violated the monarch's prohibition, and distorted the strict law.
Because of the Queen Mother, the Emperor cannot bear to use laws against you.
The Queen Mother cried at night, hoping that the king would realize and change his ways, but the king still could not wake up.
If the Queen Mother dies, who else can you cling to, Your Majesty?
Before he finished speaking, King Xiao burst into tears and blamed himself to Han Anguo: "I will hand over Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng immediately."
On that day, Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng committed suicide.
The Han envoys returned to answer their orders, and Liang's troubles were completely resolved. This was all due to An Guo's contribution.
So Emperor Jing and Empress Dowager Dou valued Han Anguo even more.
After the death of King Xiao, King Gong came to the throne. Han Anguo lost his official position because of breaking the law and lived at home.
After Liu Che, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, ascended the throne, Tian Fu, Marquis of Wu'an, became the Taiwei, favored and trusted and held great power.
Han Anguo gave five hundred gold to Tian Fu. Tian Fu mentioned Han Anguo to the Queen Mother. The emperor often heard about Anguo's talents, so he called him the captain of the North, and later he was promoted to Da Si Nong.
Min Yue and Shu Yue attacked each other, so the emperor sent Han Anguo and Daxing Wang Hui to lead troops to Vietnam.
Before reaching Yue, the Yue people killed their king and surrendered, and the Han court withdrew its troops.
At that time, Tian Fu became the prime minister, and Han Anguo was the censor.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
匈奴来请和亲，上下其议。
大行王恢，燕人，数为边吏，习故事，议曰： 汉与匈奴和亲，率不过数岁即背约。
不如勿许，举兵击之。
安国曰： 千里而战，即兵不获利。
今匈奴负戎马足，怀鸟兽心，迁徙鸟集，难得而制。
得其地不足为广，有其众不足为强，自上古弗属。
汉数千里争利，则人马罢，虏以全制其敝，势必危殆。
臣故以为不如和亲。
群臣议多附安国，于是上许和亲。
明年，雁门马邑豪聂壹因大行王恢言： 匈奴初和亲，亲信边，可诱以利致之，伏兵袭击，必破之道也。
上乃召问公卿曰： 朕饰子女以配单于，币帛文锦，赂之甚厚。
translation: 
The Xiongnu sent people to ask for peace, and the emperor asked the emperor to discuss it.
Wang Zheng of Daxing was an artist and had served as an official in border counties many times. He was very familiar with the situation of the Xiongnu. He made a comment and said: Most of the time when the Han soldiers make peace with the Huns, the Huns break the treaty again within a few years.
It would be better not to agree and send troops to attack them.
Han Anguo said: Sending troops to fight thousands of miles away will not yield good results.
If the Xiongnu relied on the speed of their troops and horses, had a heart like an animal, and migrated like a bird, it would be difficult to restrain them.
Acquiring their land does not count as opening up the territory, and ruling their people does not count as becoming rich and powerful. They have not been our subjects since ancient times.
If the Han soldiers traveled thousands of miles to gain victory, the troops and horses would be exhausted, while the Xiongnu could rest and wait for work. This was certainly very dangerous.
I think it's better to make peace with them.
When the ministers discussed this matter, most of them agreed with Anguo, so the emperor agreed to make peace with the Huns.
The next year, Nie Yi, a hero from Mayi City in Yanmen County, expressed to the emperor through Daxing Wang Zheng: Yu Xiangang has made a marriage with Xuan and is close to the people in the border areas. We can use profit to lure them over, and if we lay an ambush on the road, we will definitely destroy them.
The emperor then summoned all the ministers and asked him, "I will select my children, dress them, wear them, and betroth them to the Chanyu. I will also give him a lot of money, silk, and brocade."


Chunk 23: 
original: 
单于待命加嫚，侵盗无已，边竟数惊，朕甚闵之。
今欲举兵攻之，何如？
大行恢对曰： 陛下虽未言，臣固愿效之。
臣闻全代之时，北有强胡之敌，内连中国之兵，然尚得养老长幼，种树以时，仓廪常实，匈奴不轻侵也。
今以陛下之威，海内为一，天下同任，又遣子弟乘边守塞，转粟挽输，以为之备，然匈奴侵盗不已者，无它，以不恐之故耳。
臣窃以为击之便。
御史大夫安国曰： 不然。
臣闻高皇帝尝围于平城，匈奴至者投鞍高如城者数所。
平城之饥，七日不食，天下歌之，及解围反位，而无忿怒之心。
translation: 
The Chanyu treated my orders very lightly, and invaded and plundered without end. The people of the border counties were harassed many times, and I sympathized with them very much.
Now I want to send a large army to attack the Huns. What do you think?
Daxing Wang Hui replied: Even if your Majesty did not say it, I would have advocated the use of this strategy.
I heard that during the Warring States Period, when the world was not unified, although there were powerful barbarians in the north who threatened the interior, and the interior of the Central Plains was in turmoil, the countries were still able to support their people, farm according to the seasons, and the public and private warehouses were always full, so the Xiongnu did not dare to invade easily.
Now, relying on your majesty, the world is unified, and the Han Dynasty has sent its disciples to board the border towns to guard the fortress, transporting grain, and transporting chariots and horses. But Bao Xi continued to invade and plunder, for no other reason than because he had no fear.
I privately believe that attacking is beneficial.
Han Anguo, the imperial censor, retorted: That's not the case.
I heard that Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was once besieged by the Xiongnu in Pingcheng. The Xiongnu army took off their saddles and piled them up into camps. There were several places higher than Pingcheng.
In Pingcheng, Emperor Gao endured hunger and did not eat for seven days. Everyone in the world praised this incident. When the siege was lifted and he returned to the capital, he did not feel anxious, hateful or angry.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
夫圣人以天下为度者也，不以己私怒伤天下之功，故乃遣刘敬奉金千斤，以结和亲，至今为五世利。
孝文皇帝又尝壹拥天下之精兵聚之广武常溪，然终无尺寸之功，而天下黔首无不忧者。
孝文寤于兵之不可宿，故复合和亲之约。
此二圣之迹，足以为效矣。
臣窃以为勿击便。
恢曰： 不然。
臣闻五帝不相袭礼，三王不相复乐，非故相反也，各因世宜也。
且高帝身被坚执锐，蒙雾露，沐霜雪，行几十年，所以不报平城之怨者，非力不能，所以休天下之心也。
今边竟数惊，士卒伤死，中国槥车相望，此仁人之所隐也。臣故曰 击之便 。 安国曰： 不然。
臣闻利不十者不易业，功不百者不变常，是以古之人君谋事必就祖，发政占古语，重作事也。
且自三代之盛，夷狄不与正朔服色，非威不能制，强弗能服也，以为远方绝地不牧之民，不足烦中国也。
translation: 
A sage should put the world first, be magnanimous, and not harm the world out of his own personal anger. Therefore, Emperor Gao sent Liu Jingfeng with a thousand catties of gold to make peace with the Huns. Up to now, the five emperors in Ligeng have benefited from it.
Emperor Xiaowen once unified and led the world's best soldiers and generals to assemble in Changxi, Guangwu. However, in the end, he achieved nothing, but the people of the world were all worried.
Emperor Xiaowen knew that the war could not be prolonged, so he once again made a peace treaty with the Xiongnu.
The deeds of these two enlightened emperors are enough to be followed.
I privately believe that not attacking is the best policy.
Wang Hui said again: What Han Anguo said is wrong.
I heard that the etiquette of the five emperors did not follow each other, and the etiquette and music of the three kings did not repeat. This was not a deliberate violation of the laws of the previous life. Only when each generation made laws and etiquette according to the actual Sui situation at that time was it appropriate.
Moreover, the Emperor of the Han Dynasty wore strong armor and held a sharp weapon in his hand, braved the morning fog, dew, and severe cold, frost, and snow, and traveled for nearly ten years. The reason why he did not avenge the resentment of the Qiancheng disaster was not because of lack of strength, but to allow the people of the world to rest and give them peace of mind.
Now the border has been invaded several times, soldiers have been killed and injured, and hearses are waiting for each other in China. This is a sad situation for people with lofty ideals. Your Majesty, I firmly believe that attacking and counterattacking is in the interests of the country. Han Anguo continued: That's not the case.
I heard that when the benefits do not reach ten times, they will never change their original occupation, and when the benefits do not reach a hundred times, they will never change their fixed careers. Therefore, when people in ancient times planned things, they would use the ancestral laws as an example, and they would also consult the scriptures when governing. This is because it is difficult to do things.
Moreover, since the Bai Dynasty became powerful, the Yi Di did not follow China to correct Shuo Yi's clothes. This is not because the majesty is not enough to subdue them, and the strength is not enough to make them obey, but because the people in the distant Jedi land who cannot be pastoral do not need to bother China to do so.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
且匈奴，轻疾悍亟之兵也，至如猋风，去如收电，畜牧为业，弧弓射猎，逐兽随草，居处无常，难得而制。
今使边郡久废耕织，以支胡之常事，其势不相权也。
臣故曰 勿击便 。 恢曰： 不然。
臣闻凤鸟乘于风，圣人因于时。
昔秦缪公都雍，地方三百里，知时宜之变，攻取西戎，辟地千里，并国十四，陇西、北地是也。
及后蒙恬为秦侵胡，辟数千里，以河为竟，累石为城，树榆为塞，匈奴不敢饮马于河，置烽燧然后敢牧马。
夫匈奴独可以威服，不可以仁畜也。
今以中国之盛，万倍之资，遣百分之一以攻匈奴，譬犹以强弩射且溃之痈也，必不留行矣。
若是，则北发月氏可得而臣也。
translation: 
Moreover, the Huns' army was powerful and swift, coming like a gust of wind and going as fast as lightning. They rely on animal husbandry as their occupation, use bows and arrows to hunt, chase animals, and follow water and grass. They live in unstable places and are difficult to subdue.
Now it is not worth the gain to let the people of the border counties give up farming and weaving for a long time and come to support the things that the Huns are accustomed to.
I therefore consider it advantageous not to attack. Wang Hui said: That's not the case.
I heard that the phoenix crow flies on the wind, and the sage controls it according to the time.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin established his capital in Yongcheng, which was a land of three hundred miles. Knowing the changes of time and opportunity, he captured Xirong, opened up a territory of more than a thousand miles, and annexed fourteen countries. From then on, Longxi and the north became Qin's territory.
Later, Meng Tian led the army to attack the Xiongnu for Qin. Thousands of miles of territory were opened up, and all the north and south of the Yellow River were included in the territory of Qin. The Great Wall was built with soil and stones, and elm trees were planted as barriers. The Huns did not dare to go to the Yellow River to drink horses.
The Huns can only be subdued with majesty, but cannot be educated with benevolence and righteousness.
Now, relying on the strength of Mo, it has ten thousand times the wealth of the Xiongnu, and allocating one percent of it to attack the Xiongnu is like using a powerful crossbow to shoot through a festering sore, and there will definitely be no obstacles.
If the Huns are conquered in this way, then the Yuezhi can be recruited from the north to make them surrender.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
臣故曰 击之便 。
安国曰： 不然。
臣闻用兵者以饱待饥，正治以待其乱，定舍以待其劳。
故接兵覆众，伐国堕城，常坐而役敌国，此圣人之兵也。
且臣闻之，冲风之衰，不能起毛羽；强弩之末，力不能入鲁缟。
夫盛之有衰，犹朝之必莫也。
今将卷甲轻举，深入长驱，难以为功；从行则迫胁，衡行则中绝，疾则粮乏，徐则后利，不至千里，人马乏食。
兵法曰： 遗人获也。
意者有它缪巧可以禽之，则臣不知也；不然，则未见深入之利也。
臣故曰 勿击便 。 恢曰： 不然。
夫草木遭霜者，不可以风过；清水明镜，不可以形逃；通方之士，不可以文乱。
translation: 
Therefore, I said that it would be beneficial to use troops to conquer.
Han Anguo continued to argue and said: What Wang Hui said is wrong.
I heard that whenever you use troops to fight, you must feed yourself when you are hungry, rectify yourself, and treat the enemy? Kun is in chaos, rest in peace and wait until the enemy is tired.
In this way, the two armies are connected, defeating the enemy, conquering the enemy country, destroying their city, and often enslaving the enemy country easily. This is the method of the sage's use of arms.
Moreover, I have heard that when two strong winds collide, their power will become weaker and they will not even be able to blow the feathers; when a strong crossbow is at its end, its power will not be able to pass through Lu Zhen.
Therefore, whatever is strong must fall, just as morning must turn into evening.
Now if you put on your armor and go out hastily, going deep into the depths of the enemy, it will be difficult to achieve success and establish achievements. If it goes deep vertically, both wings will be threatened; if it goes deep horizontally, the center will be easily defeated; if the army moves quickly, food will be scarce and supplies will not be available; if it moves slowly, victory will not be achieved; before it reaches a thousand miles, the troops and horses will be short of food.
Zaocheng is as the Art of War says: Send the army to the enemy and let them capture it.
If those who advocate the use of troops have other techniques and methods to capture the enemy, then I don't know; if not, then I can't see what benefit it will be to attack the enemy in depth.
Therefore, I still advocate the advantage of not using troops. Wang Hui said: What Han Anguo said is wrong.
If grass and trees are hit by frost, they cannot withstand the wind and will wither quickly; clear water is like a mirror, and both beauty and ugliness can be revealed in its surface; a person who is proficient in the road and has a profound knowledge cannot disturb his mind with words.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
今臣言击之者，固非发而深入也，将顺因单于之欲，诱而致之边，吾选枭骑壮士阴伏而处以为之备，审遮险阻以为其戒。
吾势已定，或营其左，或营其右，或当其前，或绝其后，单于可禽，百全必取。 上曰： 善。
乃从恢议，阴使聂壹为间，亡入匈奴，谓单于曰： 吾能斩马邑令丞，以城降，财物可尽得。
单于爱信，以为然而许之。
聂壹乃诈斩死罪囚，县其头马邑城下，视单于使者为信，曰： 马邑长吏已死，可急来。
于是单于穿塞，将十万骑入武州塞。
当是时，汉伏兵车骑材官三十余万，匿马邑旁谷中。
卫尉李广为骁骑将军，太仆公孙贺为轻车将军，大行王恢为将屯将军，太中大夫李息为材官将军。御史大夫安国为护军将军，诸将皆属。
约单于入马邑纵兵。王恢、李息别从代主击辎重。
于是单于入塞，未至马邑百余里，觉之，还去。
translation: 
Now the attack method I mentioned is not necessarily to send troops to fight deep into the hinterland of the Xiongnu. Instead, we will obey the Chanyu's desire and use leverage to lure him to the border. We choose smart, capable, brave, and swift cavalry units to secretly ambush as preparations, and inspect and inspect places with obstructions and dangers to strengthen our vigilance.
After our general situation is determined, we set up camps on the front, rear and left sides of the Shanyu's path. If we advance, we can resist him, and if we retreat, we can cut off his retreat. In this way, the Shanyu can capture him, and we will definitely win a complete victory. The emperor said: Very good.
So Wang Hui's suggestion was adopted. Secretly sending Nie Yi as a spy, he fled to the Huns and said to Shanyu: I can kill the magistrate and magistrate of Mayi and surrender the city of Mayi to you, so that I can get all the property.
Shanyu trusted him very much and felt that what he said was reasonable, so he agreed to him.
Nie Yi came back, beheaded the condemned prisoner, hung it under the city of Mayi, and pretended to be an official of Mayi city to win the trust of Shanzi's envoy. Said: The senior officials of Mayi City are all dead. You can come quickly.
So Shanyu passed through the border fortress and led more than 100,000 cavalry into Wuzhou Fortress.
At this time, the Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 chariots, cavalry, and officials, hiding in the valley next to Mayi City.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang is the heroic cavalry general, Grand Servant Sun He is the light chariot general, Daxing Wang Hui is the general general, Taizhong doctor Li Xi is the caiguan general, and Yushi doctor Han Anguo is the guard general. All the generals are led by the guard generals.
The generals agreed that as soon as Shan Yu entered Mayi City, the Han ambush troops would rush out to attack. Wang Hui and Li Xi would separately attack the Huns' baggage from Dai County.
At that time, Chanyu entered the Wuzhou Fortress of the Great Wall, which was still more than a hundred miles away from Mayi. He realized that there was a fraud in it, so he withdrew his troops.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
语在《匈奴传》。
塞下传言单于已去，汉兵追至塞，度弗及，王恢等皆罢兵。
上怒恢不出击单于辎重也，恢曰： 始约为入马邑城，兵与单于接，而臣击其辎重，可得利。今单于不至而还，臣以三万人众不敌，祗取辱。
固知还而斩，然完陛下士三万人。
于是下恢廷尉，廷尉当恢逗桡，当斩。
恢行千金丞相蚡，蚡不敢言上，而言于太后曰： 王恢首为马邑事，今不成而朱恢，是为匈奴报仇也。
上朝太后，太后以蚡言告上。
上曰： 首为马邑事者恢，故发天下兵数十万，从其言，为此。
且纵单于不可得，恢所部击，犹颇可得，以尉士大夫心。
今不诛恢，无以谢天下。
于是恢闻，乃自杀。
安国为人多大略，知足以当世取舍，而出于忠厚。
贪耆财利，然所推举皆廉士贤于己者。
于梁举壶遂、臧固，至它，皆天下名士，士亦以此称慕之，唯天子以为国器。
translation: 
The relevant situation is in "The Biography of the Huns".
It was said under the fortress that Shan Yu had retreated and the Han soldiers pursued them to the frontier fortress, but they probably could not catch up. So Wang Hui and other generals withdrew their troops and returned.
The emperor was very angry that Wang Hui did not attack the Xiongnu's baggage. Wang Hui said: It was originally agreed that as soon as the Xiongnu entered Mayi City and Mayi's army fought with the Chanyu, I would attack his baggage. This would be profitable. Now that the Chanyu has not entered Mayi and retreated, I can't fight with 30,000 people, and will only bring defeat to myself.
Although I know that I will be killed when I come back, this way I can save your Majesty's 30,000 soldiers.
So Wang Hui was handed over to the Tingwei for punishment. The Tingwei sentenced him to be afraid of the enemy and should be executed.
Wang Hui secretly gave a thousand pieces of gold to Prime Minister Tian Fu. Tian Fu did not dare to plead with the emperor, but said to the queen mother: Wang Hui was the first to propose the strategy of luring the enemy in Mayi, and now he has failed and killed him. This is to avenge the Huns!
When the emperor met with the queen mother, the queen mother told the emperor what Tian Xi had said.
The emperor said: Initially, it was Wang Hui who initiated the Mayi plan, so he mobilized hundreds of thousands of soldiers from all over the world to follow his plan and attack the Huns.
Moreover, even if Shanyu cannot be captured this time, if the troops led by Wang Hui attack the Huns' baggage, they may be able to achieve some results to appease the soldiers.
If Wang Hui is not killed now, he will not be able to apologize to the world.
Wang Hui heard about it and committed suicide.
An Guo is a man with deep strategies, and his wisdom and wisdom are all in line with worldly standards of choice, but they are all based on loyalty.
Although he is greedy for money, he only recommends honest people who are more capable than himself.
Recommend Yi Ya in Luang time? Wei Zhou and others were also famous people in the world, so the scholars praised and admired him very much. Even the emperor thought he was a talented person in governing the country.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
安国为御史大夫五年，丞相蚡薨。
安国行丞相事，引堕车，蹇。
上欲用安国为丞相，使使视，蹇甚，乃更以平棘侯薛泽为丞相。安国病免，数月，愈，复为中尉。
岁余，徒为卫尉。
而将军卫青等击匈奴，破龙城。
明年，匈奴大入边。
语在《青传》。
安国为材官将军，屯渔阳，捕生口虏，言匈奴远去。
即上言方佃作时，请且罢屯。
罢屯月余，匈奴大入上谷、渔阳。
安国壁乃有七百余人，出与战，安国伤，入壁。
匈奴虏略千余人及畜产去。
上怒，使使责让安国。
徙益东，屯右北平。
是时，虏言当入东方。
安国始为御史大夫及护军，后稍下迁。新壮将军卫青等有功，益贵。
安国既斥疏，将屯又失亡多，甚自愧，幸得罢归，乃益东徙，意忽忽不乐，数月，病呕血死。
translation: 
Han Anguo served as the imperial censor for five years, and the prime minister passed away.
Longxuanli also acted as prime minister. When he was leading the way for the emperor, he fell from his car and became lame.
The emperor wanted to appoint Han Anguo as prime minister, but sent someone to visit him and found that he was lame badly, so he appointed Pingjihou Lanya as prime minister. Longyi was dismissed from office for several months due to illness. After his leg injury healed, the emperor appointed him as lieutenant again.
More than a year later, he was appointed as a guard.
At this time, General Wei Qing and others attacked Bao Chu and broke through.
The next year, Bao Chao invaded the border again.
The relevant situation is in "The Biography of Wei Qing".
Han Anguo was appointed as Caiguan General and stationed in Yuyang. Anguo captured and plundered the enemy alive, saying that the Huns had retreated far away.
He wrote a letter saying that it was the busy farming season and requested to temporarily stop the army.
Only a month after stopping the garrison, Xionghe launched a large-scale attack on Shangcha and Setan.
There were only more than 700 people in the state camp. They went out to fight with the Xiongnu. Han Anguo was injured and returned to the camp.
The Bao plastic prisoners plundered the remaining people, livestock and property and left.
The emperor was furious and sent an envoy to blame Han Anguo.
He was even ordered to move eastward and stationed in Youbeiping.
Because the prisoners at that time said that the Huns would invade from the east.
Han Anguo initially served as a royal censor and a general protecting the army, but was later alienated and demoted. The newly favored and young general Wei Qing and others had military merits and were even more important to the emperor.
Han Anguo was ostracized and alienated, and leading troops stationed at the border suffered many casualties. He felt very ashamed in his heart. I hoped to be lucky enough to return to the imperial court, but I was even transferred to the east to station. I felt very frustrated and unhappy. A few months later, he fell ill and vomited blood and died.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
壶遂与太史迁等定汉律历，官至詹事，其人深中笃行君子。
上方倚欲以为相，会其病卒。
赞曰： 窦婴、田蚡皆以外戚重，灌夫用一时决策，而各名显，并位卿相，大业定矣。
然婴不知时变，夫亡术而不逊，蚡负贵而骄溢。
凶德参会，待时而发，藉福区区其间，恶能救斯败哉！
以韩安国之见器，临其挚而颠坠，陵夷以忧死，遇合有命，悲夫！
若王恢为兵首而受其咎，岂命也乎？
translation: 
Husui, together with Taishi Sima Qian and others, revised the Han Dynasty laws and regulations, and served as an official until Zhan Shi. This man was honest, honest, consistent in his words and deeds, and a man of high moral character.
The emperor was about to rely on him to become the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, but he fell ill and died.
Zan said: Dou Ying and Tian Fu both held important positions because of their relatives, while Guan Fu became famous at that time because he made up his mind and showed his performance. They are all in the ranks of ministers, and their great cause has been determined.
However, Bao Ying was too ignorant of current affairs, Guan Fu was uneducated and not humble, and Tian Fu relied on his noble status to become arrogant and domineering.
The evil qualities of each other collide with each other, and they will show up at the right moment. Although Jiufeng mediates between them sincerely, how can he save their decline?
Based on Han Anguo's knowledge and understanding, when he was about to ascend to the throne, he suffered from illness and failed, and finally slowly died of worry. What happened to people is really destined, how sad!
For example, Wang Hui first proposed the use of troops against the Xiongnu but suffered disasters as a result. Was the dispatch ordained by fate?


