Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 8, 12, 20, 30]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦婴字王孙，孝文皇后从兄子也。
父世观津人也。喜宾客。
孝文时为吴相，病免。
孝景即位，为詹事。
帝弟梁孝王，母窦太后爱之。
孝王朝，因燕昆弟饮。
是时，上未立太子，酒酣，上从容曰： 千秋万岁后传王。
太后欢。
婴引卮酒进上曰： 天下者，高祖天下，父子相传，汉之约也，上何以得传梁王！
太后由此憎婴。婴亦薄其官，因病免。
太后除婴门籍，不得朝请。
孝景三年，吴、楚反、上察宗室诸窦无如婴贤，召入见，固让谢，称病不足任。
太后亦惭。
于是上曰： 天下方有急，王孙宁可以让邪？
translation: 
Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin.
Tracing back to his father, he has lived in Guanjin for generations and likes to entertain guests.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Baoying was the prime minister of Wu State, but was dismissed due to illness.
Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne and appointed Dou Ying as Zhan Shi.
Emperor Xiaojing's younger brother, King Liang Xiao, was doted on by his mother, Queen Mother Dou.
Once, when King Xiao of Liang entered the court, Emperor Xiaojing drank with his brothers.
There was no crown prince at this time, and when everyone had finished drinking, Emperor Xiaojing said calmly: After my death, I will pass the throne to King Liang.
Queen Mother Dou was very happy to hear this.
At this time, Dou Ying brought a glass of wine to the emperor and said: The world belongs to Emperor Gaozu, and the throne should be passed down from father to son. This is a legal restriction of the Han Dynasty. How can the emperor pass it on to King Liang?
The Queen Mother hated Bao Ying because of this, and Dou Ying also felt that Zhan Shi's official position was too young, so she resigned due to illness.
The Empress Dowager then removed the name list that allowed Dou Ying to enter and leave the palace. During festivals, he was not allowed to enter the palace to see him.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wu and Chu rebelled. At this time, the emperor investigated and found that neither the Liu clan nor the Dou family members were as wise as Dou Ying, so he recruited Dou Ying. After Dou Ying came to see him, he resolutely declined, saying that he was ill and could not take on this important task.
The Queen Mother also felt ashamed.
The emperor said: "Now the world is in crisis, how can Wang Sun refuse?"

summary:
summary line 0: Dou Ying, courtesy name Wangsun, was the son of Queen Xiaowen's cousin. He lived in Guanjin and enjoyed entertaining guests. During Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he served as prime minister of Wu State but was dismissed due to illness. Under Emperor Xiaojing, he became Zhan Shi. When Emperor Xiaojing offered the throne to his brother King Liang Xiao, Dou Ying objected, citing Han law that the throne must pass from father to son. This angered Queen Mother Dou, leading to Dou Ying's resignation and exclusion from court. In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, during the Wu-Chu rebellion, Dou Ying was appointed general and granted gold, which he distributed to his officers. After suppressing the rebellion, he was made Marquis of Wei. He later served as the prince's teacher but argued for the deposed prince, leading to his retirement. Persuaded by Zhisui, he resumed his duties. Despite Queen Mother Dou's recommendations, Emperor Xiaojing refused to make Dou Ying prime minister, citing his pride and rashness.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
举谪诸窦宗室无行者，除其属籍。
诸外家为列侯，列侯多尚公主，皆不欲就国，以故毁日至窦太后。
太后好黄、老言，而婴、蚡、赵绾等务隆推儒术，贬道家言，是以窦太后滋不说。
二年，御史大夫赵绾请毋奏事东宫。
窦太后大怒，曰： 此欲复为新垣平邪！
乃罢逐赵绾、王臧，而免丞相婴、太尉蚡，以柏至侯许昌为丞相，武强侯庄青翟为御史大夫。
婴、蚡以侯家居。
蚡虽不任职，以王太后故亲幸，数言事，多效，士吏趋势利者皆去婴而归蚡。
蚡日益横。
六年，窦太后崩，丞相昌、御史大夫青翟坐丧事不办，免。
上以蚡为丞相，大司农韩安国为御史大夫。
天下士郡诸侯愈益附蚡。
蚡为人貌侵，生贵甚。
又以为诸侯王多长，上初即位，富于春秋，蚡以肺附为相，非痛折节以礼屈之，天下不肃。
translation: 
He also reported all the descendants of the sinister clan and the clan, and all those with bad conduct would be removed from the genealogy.
At this time, the princes of the foreign relatives married many princesses and were unwilling to return to their fiefdoms. Therefore, the slanderous words of Dou Ying and others reached the ears of Queen Mother Dou every day.
The Queen Mother was interested in Huang Lao's scholarship, but Dou Ying, Tian Fu, Zhao Wan and others insisted on respecting Confucianism and belittling Taoism. Therefore, Queen Mother Dou became increasingly dissatisfied with Dou Ying and others.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, did not want the Queen Mother to continue to interfere in political affairs, so he asked the emperor not to make trouble against the Queen Mother in the future.
When Empress Dowager Dou found out, she was furious and said, "Are you trying to repeat Aragaki Ping's tricks?"
So Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were dismissed and expelled, and Dou Ying was removed from the post of prime minister and Tian Fu from the post of Taiwei. In addition, Bai Zhi Hou Xuchang was appointed as the prime minister, and Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai was appointed as the censor.
From then on, Dou Ying and Tian Fu only lived at home as Hou.
Although Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, did not hold an official position, he was still favored by the emperor because of his relationship with the Queen Mother. He discussed political affairs many times, and most of them were adopted and came into effect. Those officials and scholars who were in favor of others left Wei Qihou Dou Ying and joined Tian Fu.
As a result, Marquis Wu'an became more and more arrogant day by day.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. Prime Minister Xuchang and Yushi doctor Zhuang Qingzhai were removed from their official positions because they failed to organize the funeral.
The emperor then appointed Tian Fu as the prime minister and the chief minister Nong Han Anguo as the censor.
As a result, the scholars of the world, the officials of the prefectures, and the princes and kings became even more attached to Wu'an Marquis Tian Fu.
Tian Fu is ugly in appearance but considers himself to be very noble by nature.
He believed that the princes and kings at that time were all older, and the emperor had just ascended the throne and was very young. Tian Fu himself regarded the emperor's closest relative as the prime minister. If he did not thoroughly rectify the situation and use etiquette to restrain them, the people of the world would not obey.

summary:
summary line 1: Tian Fu, half-brother of Emperor Xiaojing and Queen Wang, rose in prominence after Emperor Wu's ascension, becoming Marquis of Wu'an. He initially humbled himself before Dou Ying but later gained power. Tian Fu recommended Dou Ying as prime minister while becoming Taiwei himself. Both favored Confucianism, promoting Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, and planned to establish a Mingtang. However, Queen Mother Dou, a Huang-Lao adherent, opposed them, leading to their dismissal. Tian Fu remained influential due to his ties to the Queen Mother, while Dou Ying's power waned. After Queen Mother Dou's death, Tian Fu became prime minister, growing arrogant. He built lavish residences, acquired fertile lands, and received countless treasures. Dou Ying, by contrast, became alienated and powerless, finding solace only in his friendship with Guan Fu.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
贵戚诸势在己之右，欲必陵之；士在己左，愈贫贱，尤益礼敬，与钧。
稠人广众，荐宠下辈。士亦以此多之。
夫不好文学，喜任侠，已然诺。
诸所与交通，无非豪桀大猾。
家累数千万，食客日数十百人。
波池田园，宗族宾客为权利，横颍川。
颍川儿歌之曰： 颍水清，灌氏宁；颍水浊，灌氏族。
夫家居，卿相侍中宾客益衰。
及窦婴失势，亦欲倚夫引绳排根生平慕之后弃者。夫亦得婴通列侯宗室为名高。
两人相为引重，其游如父子然，相得欢甚，无厌，恨相知之晚。
夫尝有服，过丞相蚡。
translation: 
For those noble relatives or generally powerful people who were above Guan Fu, he not only refused to show respect to them, but also tried to find ways to insult them. The poorer the ordinary scholars were below him, the more respectful Guan Fu was to them and treated them with equal etiquette.
In crowded situations, Guan Fu always praises and praises low-status juniors, so most people praise him.
Guan Fu didn't like learning, but he liked chivalry and would always do what he promised.
Those who associate with him are nothing more than heroes, knights, or cunning people.
His family's assets are tens of millions, and the number of diners every day ranges from dozens to nearly a hundred.
He built pits in his fields to store water for irrigation purposes. In order to monopolize the water conservancy fields, Guanfu's clan guests often fought for power and became rampant in the Yingchuan area.
So the children in Yingchuan sang: If the Yingshui is clear, the Guan family will be at peace; if the Yingshui is dirty, the Guan family will be destroyed.
Although Guan Fu's family was wealthy, they lost their power. As a result, the ministers, ministers, and those who had always been Guan Fu's guests gradually distanced themselves from him.
When Dou Ying lost power, he also wanted to rely on Guan Fu to settle accounts with those who followed Yan's influence. Guan Fu also wanted to use Dou Ying's relationship to make friends with the princes and clan members to increase his social status.
Therefore, the two of them respected each other and were as close as father and son. The two of them were very compatible and had no objections. They just regretted that it was too late for them to know each other.
Guan Fu's sister passed away, and Guan Fu went to visit the Prime Minister Tian Fu during the period of mourning.

summary:
summary line 2: Guan Fu, courtesy name Zhongru, was born in Yingyin. His father, Zhang Meng, served Guan Ying and took the surname Guan. During the Wu-Chu rebellion, Guan Fu fought fiercely to avenge his father, earning fame despite severe injuries. He later served as a general but lost his position due to legal troubles. Known for his uprightness and disdain for flattery, Guan Fu respected the poor and insulted the powerful. He associated with heroes and rogues, amassing wealth and a large following. His family's arrogance in Yingchuan led to a local song warning of their downfall. After losing power, Guan Fu bonded with Dou Ying, each seeking to bolster the other's status. Their friendship deepened, though Guan Fu's bluntness often caused conflict.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
坐乃起更衣，稍稍去。
婴去，戏夫。
夫出，蚡遂怒曰： 此吾骄灌夫罪也。
乃令骑留夫，夫不得出。
藉福起为谢，案夫项令谢。
夫愈怒，不肯顺。
蚡乃戏骑缚夫置传舍，召长史曰： 今日召宗室，有诏。
劾灌夫骂坐不敬，系居室。
遂其前事，遣吏分曹逐捕诸灌氏支属，皆得弃市罪。
婴愧，为资使宾客请，莫能解。
蚡吏皆为耳目，诸灌氏皆仁匿，夫系，遂不得告言蚡阴事。
婴锐为救夫，婴夫人谏曰： 灌将军得罪丞相，与太后家迕，宁可救邪？
translation: 
Seeing that the situation was not good, the guests at the table got up and excused themselves to go to the toilet, and gradually dispersed.
Shi Ying also stood up and left, waving to Guan Fu to leave quickly.
When Guan Fu had just left, Tian Fu said angrily: "It's my fault, because I spoiled him so much that he became so presumptuous."
He ordered his knights to detain Guan Fu so that Guan Fu could not leave.
Taking advantage of the blessing, he quickly got up and apologized to the prime minister for Guan Fu. He pressed his hand on Guan Fu's neck and asked him to bow his head and apologize.
Guan Fu became even more angry and refused to apologize.
Tian Gou then ordered the knights to tie up Guan Fu and keep him in the transfer house. He also called for Chang Shi and said to him: "Today we invite guests from the royal family to a banquet here in accordance with the order of the Queen Mother Shao."
So Guan Fu was impeached, saying that he insulted the guests at the banquet, insulted Shao Ling, and committed the crime of disrespect. He was imprisoned in the living room.
At the same time, a thorough investigation was made of Guan Fu's various illegal activities in Yingchuan, and officers were dispatched to arrest relatives of each branch of the Guan family. They were all sentenced to death by beheading in public.
Dou Ying felt so ashamed that he paid and sent guests to plead with the prime minister, but in the end he could not get Guan Fu released.
Since Tian Fu's subordinates were all the prime minister's eyes and ears, the people in Guan's family who had slipped through the net were all running away and hiding, and Guan Fu himself was being detained, so he could not report all the bad things Tian Fu had done secretly.
Dou Ying desperately tried to rescue Guan Fu, but his wife persuaded him: General Guan offended the prime minister and went against the Queen Mother's family. Can he be saved?

summary:
summary line 3: Tian Fu once agreed to visit Dou Ying with Guan Fu but forgot, causing Guan Fu to confront him. At a banquet, Guan Fu insulted Tian Fu, leading to a rift. Tian Fu later demanded land from Dou Ying, who refused, deepening their enmity. In the fourth year of Yuanguang, Tian Fu reported Guan Fu's family's arrogance, and Guan Fu retaliated by exposing Tian Fu's misdeeds. At a wedding feast for Tian Fu, Guan Fu insulted guests, leading to his arrest. Tian Fu accused him of disrespect, and Dou Ying tried to save him, arguing his drunken mistake was minor. In court, Tian Fu slandered Guan Fu as treasonous. The emperor asked ministers to judge, but opinions were divided. Queen Mother Dou pressured the emperor, leading to Guan Fu's execution and Dou Ying's imprisonment. Dou Ying was later executed for allegedly forging an imperial edict. Tian Fu died soon after, haunted by ghosts of Dou Ying and Guan Fu. His son's title was later revoked.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
居无几，梁内史缺，汉使使者拜安国为梁内史，起徒中为二千石。
田甲亡。
安国曰： 甲不就官，我灭而宗。
甲肉袒谢，安国笑曰： 公等足与治乎？
卒善遇之。
内史之缺也，王新得齐人公孙诡，说之，欲请为内史。
窦太后闻，乃诏王以安国为内史。
公孙诡、羊胜说王求为帝太子及益地事，恐汉大臣不听，乃阴使人刺汉用事谋臣。
及杀故吴相爰盎，景帝遂闻诡、胜等计划，乃遣使捕诡、胜，必得。
汉使十辈至梁，相以下举国大索，月余弗得。
安国闻诡、胜匿王所，乃入见王而泣曰： 主辱者臣死。
大王无良臣，故纷纷至此。
今胜、诡不得，请辞赐死。
王曰： 何至此？
安国泣数行下，曰： 大王自度于皇帝，孰与太上皇之与高帝及皇帝与临江王亲？
王曰： 弗如也。
安国曰： 夫太上皇、临江亲父子间，然高帝曰 提三尺取天下者朕也 ，故太上终不得制事，居于栎阳。
临江，適长太子，以一言过，废王临江；用宫垣事，卒自杀中尉府。
何者？
治天下终不用私乱公。
translation: 
Soon after, the position of domestic history of Liang was vacant. The Han court sent an envoy to appoint Han Anguo as internal history of Liang, and promoted him from his disciples to serve as an official of two thousand stones.
Tian Jia abandoned his official position and fled.
Han Anguo said: If Tian Jia doesn't come back and take office, I will annihilate your clan.
Tian Jia then took off his clothes and apologized. Anguo smiled and said: Is a person like you worthy of my punishment?
Finally treat Tian Jia well.
When the internal history of Liang was vacant, King Xiao had just recruited Gongsun Gui from Qi. He liked him very much and wanted to request his appointment as internal history.
After Empress Dowager Dou heard about it, she issued an edict and ordered the King of Liang to appoint Han Anguo as the internal historian.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng lobbied King Xiao and asked him to request to be the heir to the throne and increase the fiefdom. They were afraid that the ministers of the Han court would not agree, so they secretly sent people to assassinate the powerful advisers of Moting.
When Yuan An, the former Prime Minister of Wu, was killed, Emperor Jing heard about the plans of Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others, so he sent people to capture Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng.
The Han Dynasty sent many envoys to Liang one after another, and a nationwide search was carried out from the Prime Minister of Liang on down. After more than a month, no one was caught.
The internal history of Han Anguo heard that Gongsun Gui, Yang Sheng and others were hiding in Xiaowang's palace, so he went to the palace to see the king and cried and said: If the monarch is humiliated, the ministers should die.
The king has no good ministers, so things have become such a mess.
Now that I can't catch Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng, please let me say goodbye to you and grant my death.
King Liang said: "Why are you doing this?"
Han Anguo burst into tears for several lines and said: The king himself is thinking about the relationship between you and the emperor. Compared with the Supreme Emperor and Emperor Gao, or the emperor and King Linjiang, who is closer?
King Xiao said: Not as good as them.
An Guo said: The Supreme Emperor, Prince Linjiang, Emperor Gao and the Emperor all have a father-son relationship, but Emperor Gao said that I am the one who conquers the world with a three-foot sword, so the Supreme Emperor has never had the right to interfere in political affairs and only lives in Liangyang Palace.
King Linjiang was the eldest prince, but because his mother made a mistake, he was deprived of the title of King Linjiang; and because of the palace wall incident, he finally committed suicide in the Lieutenant's Mansion.
Why is this happening?
Because in governing the world, one cannot harm the public for private reasons.

summary:
summary line 4: Han Anguo, courtesy name Changru, was born in Cheng'an County, Liang State. He studied Han Feizi and served King Xiao of Liang during the Wu-Chu rebellion, helping repel the Wu army. After the rebellion, his reputation grew. When Emperor Jing was displeased with King Liang's extravagance, Han Anguo defended him to the eldest princess, easing tensions. He later became internal history of Liang, resolving conflicts by persuading King Xiao to surrender conspirators. After King Xiao's death, Han Anguo lost his position but regained favor under Emperor Wu through Tian Fu's patronage. He became a censor and advocated peace with the Xiongnu, opposing Wang Hui's war plans. Despite initial success, the Mayi ambush failed, and Wang Hui committed suicide. Han Anguo later served as a general but was demoted due to military setbacks. He died of illness, frustrated and unhappy. His colleague Husui, a virtuous official, also died before becoming prime minister.

Chunk 30: 
original: 
壶遂与太史迁等定汉律历，官至詹事，其人深中笃行君子。
上方倚欲以为相，会其病卒。
赞曰： 窦婴、田蚡皆以外戚重，灌夫用一时决策，而各名显，并位卿相，大业定矣。
然婴不知时变，夫亡术而不逊，蚡负贵而骄溢。
凶德参会，待时而发，藉福区区其间，恶能救斯败哉！
以韩安国之见器，临其挚而颠坠，陵夷以忧死，遇合有命，悲夫！
若王恢为兵首而受其咎，岂命也乎？
translation: 
Husui, together with Taishi Sima Qian and others, revised the Han Dynasty laws and regulations, and served as an official until Zhan Shi. This man was honest, honest, consistent in his words and deeds, and a man of high moral character.
The emperor was about to rely on him to become the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, but he fell ill and died.
Zan said: Dou Ying and Tian Fu both held important positions because of their relatives, while Guan Fu became famous at that time because he made up his mind and showed his performance. They are all in the ranks of ministers, and their great cause has been determined.
However, Bao Ying was too ignorant of current affairs, Guan Fu was uneducated and not humble, and Tian Fu relied on his noble status to become arrogant and domineering.
The evil qualities of each other collide with each other, and they will show up at the right moment. Although Jiufeng mediates between them sincerely, how can he save their decline?
Based on Han Anguo's knowledge and understanding, when he was about to ascend to the throne, he suffered from illness and failed, and finally slowly died of worry. What happened to people is really destined, how sad!
For example, Wang Hui first proposed the use of troops against the Xiongnu but suffered disasters as a result. Was the dispatch ordained by fate?

summary:
summary line 5: In summary, Dou Ying and Tian Fu rose through family ties, while Guan Fu gained fame through valor. Their conflicts, fueled by pride and arrogance, led to their downfalls. Han Anguo's wisdom and loyalty were overshadowed by fate, and Wang Hui's war advocacy ended in tragedy.

