Summary line 0
Span: 0-22 (score=0.6290)

original:
夫帝王者，配德天地，叶契阴阳，发号施令，动关幽显，休咎之征，随感而作，故《书》曰： 惠迪吉，从逆凶，惟影响。
昔伏羲氏继天而王，受《河图》，则而画之，八卦是也。
禹治洪水，赐《洛书》，法而陈之，《洪范》是也。
圣人行其道，宝其真，自天祐之，吉无不利。
三五已降，各有司存。
爰及殷之箕子，在父师之位，典斯大范。
周既克殷，以箕子归，武王虚己而问焉。
箕子对以禹所得《雒书》，授之以垂训。
然则《河图》、《雒书》相为经纬，八卦、九章更为表里。
殷道绝，文王演《周易》；周道弊，孔子述《春秋》。
奉乾坤之阴阳，郊洪范之休咎，天人之道粲然著矣。
汉兴，承秦灭学之后，文帝时，虙生创纪《大传》，其言五行庶征备矣。
后景武之际，董仲舒治《公羊春秋》，始推阴阳，为儒者之宗。
宣元之间，刘向治《谷梁春秋》，数其祸福，传以《洪范》，与仲舒多所不同。
至向子歆治《左氏传》，其言《春秋》及五行，又甚乖异。
班固据《大传》，采仲舒、刘向、刘歆著《五行志》，而传载眭孟、夏侯胜、京房、谷永、李寻之徒所陈行事，讫于王莽，博通祥变，以传《春秋》。
综而为言，凡有三术。
其一曰，君治以道，臣辅克忠，万物咸遂其性，则和气应，休征效，国以安。
二曰，君违其道，小人在位，众庶失常，则乖气应，咎征效，国以亡。
三曰，人君大臣见灾异，退而自省，责躬修德，共御补过，则消祸而福至。
此其大略也。
辄举斯例，错综时变，婉而成章，有足观者。
及司马彪纂光武之后以究汉事，灾眚之说不越前规。

translation:
The emperor must have virtue that matches heaven and earth, harmonizes with yin and yang, gives orders, and acts in a state of trance. Signs of disaster and auspiciousness will appear due to induction. Therefore, "Shangshu" says: The way of benevolence and love is auspicious, and the indulgence of evil is unlucky, just like a shadow echoing the sound.
In the past, the Fuyi family inherited the destiny of being king, accepted the "River Map", and drew circles based on it, creating the Bagua.
When Yu controlled the flood, he was given "Luo Shu". According to its description, this is "Hong Fan".
A sage who follows his path takes truth as his treasure and is blessed by God with good fortune and no disadvantage.
Since the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, officials have been in charge of each.
Until the Yin Dynasty, Jizi occupied the position of his father's teacher and followed the example of sending great disciples.
After the Zhou Dynasty replaced the Yin Dynasty, Jizi was brought back, and King Wu humbly asked him for advice.
Jizi responded with the "Luoshu" that Yu had obtained, taught him and left instructions.
In this way, "He Yuan" and "Luo Shu" are the longitude and latitude of each other, and the Bagua and Jiu Zhang are the surface wrappers of each other.
The Taoism of the Yin Dynasty was cut off, and King Wen deduced the Book of Changes; the Taoism of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Respect the yin and yang of the universe, and imitate the disasters and auspiciousness of Hong Fan, and the way of correspondence between heaven and man will be clear.
The rise of the Han Dynasty continued after the extinction of scholarship in the Qin Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Wen, Liu Sheng created the "Da Zhuan", in which the various signs of the five elements were fully discussed.
Later, during the reigns of Emperor Jing and Emperor Wu, Dong Zhongshu studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" and began to deduce Yin and Yang, becoming the master of Confucianism.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan and Yuan Hu, Liu Xue studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", calculated its blessings and misfortunes, and wrote annotations for "Hong Fan", which was very different from Dong Zhongshu.
When Xingyi's son Su Ta studied the "Zuo Shi Zhuan", he discussed the "Spring and Autumn" and the Five Elements, but there were many differences and errors.
Based on the "Da Zhuan", Ban Gu adopted the comments of Dong Zhongshu, Liu Xiang, and Liu Xin in the "Five Elements Chronicles", and recorded the comments and deeds of Suimeng, Xia Housheng, Jingfang, Gu Yong, Kuiman, etc., ending with Wang Mang, and Botong auspicious variations to provide evidence for the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Generally speaking, there are three methods.
First, if the king governs according to the Tao, and his ministers assist and are loyal, and all things follow their nature, then there will be harmony, auspicious signs will appear, and the country will be peaceful.
Secondly, if the king disobeys his way, if a villain is in power, and all people lose their way, ominous omens will come true, signs of disaster will appear, and the country will perish.
Third, when emperors and ministers see disasters, they retreat and reflect on themselves, review their own moral character, and work together to make up for their mistakes. Then the disasters will be eliminated and good fortune will come.
This is roughly it.
Just give examples in this regard, interweave and review the changes at that time, and form a mixed chapter, which is worthy of reference.
When Sima Biao compiled the events after Emperor Guangwu to deduce the affairs of the Han Dynasty, the theory of disaster did not go beyond previous rules.

summary:
The emperor's virtue must align with heaven and earth, harmonizing yin and yang, as signs of disaster or auspiciousness appear through induction. The "Shangshu" states that benevolence brings good fortune, while evil brings misfortune, like a shadow following form. In antiquity, the Fuyi family received the "River Map" to create the Bagua, and Yu was given the "Luo Shu" during flood control, forming the "Hong Fan." Sages who follow this path are blessed by God. From the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors onward, officials managed affairs. In the Yin Dynasty, Jizi served as a teacher, and after the Zhou replaced Yin, King Wu consulted Jizi, who taught him from the "Luoshu." Thus, the "He Yuan" and "Luo Shu" are intertwined, as are the Bagua and Jiu Zhang. When Yin's Taoism declined, King Wen deduced the Book of Changes; when Zhou's Taoism waned, Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals. By respecting yin and yang and imitating Hong Fan's disasters and auspiciousness, the correspondence between heaven and man becomes clear.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 3-26 (score=0.6798)

original:
圣人行其道，宝其真，自天祐之，吉无不利。
三五已降，各有司存。
爰及殷之箕子，在父师之位，典斯大范。
周既克殷，以箕子归，武王虚己而问焉。
箕子对以禹所得《雒书》，授之以垂训。
然则《河图》、《雒书》相为经纬，八卦、九章更为表里。
殷道绝，文王演《周易》；周道弊，孔子述《春秋》。
奉乾坤之阴阳，郊洪范之休咎，天人之道粲然著矣。
汉兴，承秦灭学之后，文帝时，虙生创纪《大传》，其言五行庶征备矣。
后景武之际，董仲舒治《公羊春秋》，始推阴阳，为儒者之宗。
宣元之间，刘向治《谷梁春秋》，数其祸福，传以《洪范》，与仲舒多所不同。
至向子歆治《左氏传》，其言《春秋》及五行，又甚乖异。
班固据《大传》，采仲舒、刘向、刘歆著《五行志》，而传载眭孟、夏侯胜、京房、谷永、李寻之徒所陈行事，讫于王莽，博通祥变，以传《春秋》。
综而为言，凡有三术。
其一曰，君治以道，臣辅克忠，万物咸遂其性，则和气应，休征效，国以安。
二曰，君违其道，小人在位，众庶失常，则乖气应，咎征效，国以亡。
三曰，人君大臣见灾异，退而自省，责躬修德，共御补过，则消祸而福至。
此其大略也。
辄举斯例，错综时变，婉而成章，有足观者。
及司马彪纂光武之后以究汉事，灾眚之说不越前规。
今采黄初以降言祥异者，著于此篇。
《经》曰： 五行：一曰水，二曰火，三曰木，四曰金，五曰土。
水曰润下，火曰炎上，木曰曲直，金曰从革，土爰稼穑。
《传》曰： 田猎不宿，饮食不享，出入不节，夺农时及有奸谋，则木不曲直。

translation:
A sage who follows his path takes truth as his treasure and is blessed by God with good fortune and no disadvantage.
Since the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, officials have been in charge of each.
Until the Yin Dynasty, Jizi occupied the position of his father's teacher and followed the example of sending great disciples.
After the Zhou Dynasty replaced the Yin Dynasty, Jizi was brought back, and King Wu humbly asked him for advice.
Jizi responded with the "Luoshu" that Yu had obtained, taught him and left instructions.
In this way, "He Yuan" and "Luo Shu" are the longitude and latitude of each other, and the Bagua and Jiu Zhang are the surface wrappers of each other.
The Taoism of the Yin Dynasty was cut off, and King Wen deduced the Book of Changes; the Taoism of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Respect the yin and yang of the universe, and imitate the disasters and auspiciousness of Hong Fan, and the way of correspondence between heaven and man will be clear.
The rise of the Han Dynasty continued after the extinction of scholarship in the Qin Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Wen, Liu Sheng created the "Da Zhuan", in which the various signs of the five elements were fully discussed.
Later, during the reigns of Emperor Jing and Emperor Wu, Dong Zhongshu studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" and began to deduce Yin and Yang, becoming the master of Confucianism.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan and Yuan Hu, Liu Xue studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", calculated its blessings and misfortunes, and wrote annotations for "Hong Fan", which was very different from Dong Zhongshu.
When Xingyi's son Su Ta studied the "Zuo Shi Zhuan", he discussed the "Spring and Autumn" and the Five Elements, but there were many differences and errors.
Based on the "Da Zhuan", Ban Gu adopted the comments of Dong Zhongshu, Liu Xiang, and Liu Xin in the "Five Elements Chronicles", and recorded the comments and deeds of Suimeng, Xia Housheng, Jingfang, Gu Yong, Kuiman, etc., ending with Wang Mang, and Botong auspicious variations to provide evidence for the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Generally speaking, there are three methods.
First, if the king governs according to the Tao, and his ministers assist and are loyal, and all things follow their nature, then there will be harmony, auspicious signs will appear, and the country will be peaceful.
Secondly, if the king disobeys his way, if a villain is in power, and all people lose their way, ominous omens will come true, signs of disaster will appear, and the country will perish.
Third, when emperors and ministers see disasters, they retreat and reflect on themselves, review their own moral character, and work together to make up for their mistakes. Then the disasters will be eliminated and good fortune will come.
This is roughly it.
Just give examples in this regard, interweave and review the changes at that time, and form a mixed chapter, which is worthy of reference.
When Sima Biao compiled the events after Emperor Guangwu to deduce the affairs of the Han Dynasty, the theory of disaster did not go beyond previous rules.
Now we select the things that Huang Chu mentioned about auspicious disasters and strange things after that, and write them in the scroll.
"Jing" says: Five elements: one is water, the second is fire, the third is wood, the fourth is metal, and the fifth is earth.
Water refers to moistening the lower part, fire refers to the flaming upper part, wood refers to straightness, gold refers to leather, and earth refers to crops.
The "Biography" says: If one does not return from the field to rest on time, does not eat and drink according to the gifts offered, does not go in and out according to the regulations, violates the farming season, and has evil plans, the tree will not be upright.

summary:
The Han Dynasty revived scholarship after the Qin. Under Emperor Wen, Liu Sheng created the "Da Zhuan," discussing the five elements. Later, Dong Zhongshu studied "Gongyang Chunqiu," deducing yin and yang, becoming a Confucian master. During Emperor Xuan and Yuan's reigns, Liu Xue studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu," calculating fortunes and writing annotations for "Hong Fan," differing from Dong Zhongshu. Su Ta studied "Zuo Shi Zhuan," discussing the "Spring and Autumn" and Five Elements, but with errors. Ban Gu compiled the "Five Elements Chronicles," incorporating comments from Dong Zhongshu, Liu Xiang, and Liu Xin, along with records from others, ending with Wang Mang, to provide evidence for the Spring and Autumn Annals. Generally, there are three methods: if the king governs according to the Tao, harmony and auspicious signs appear; if he disobeys, ominous omens and disasters occur; when emperors and ministers see disasters and reflect, disasters can be eliminated. Sima Biao compiled events after Emperor Guangwu, and now we select auspicious and strange occurrences from Huang Chu onward.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 24-60 (score=0.5792)

original:
《经》曰： 五行：一曰水，二曰火，三曰木，四曰金，五曰土。
水曰润下，火曰炎上，木曰曲直，金曰从革，土爰稼穑。
《传》曰： 田猎不宿，饮食不享，出入不节，夺农时及有奸谋，则木不曲直。
说曰：木，东方也。
于《易》，地上之木为《观》。
于王事，威仪容貌亦可观者也。
故行步有佩玉之度，登车有和鸾之节，三驱之制，饮食有享献之礼；出入有名，使人以时，务在劝农桑，谋在安百姓，如此，则木得其性矣。
若乃田猎驰骋，不反宫室；饮食沈湎，不顾法度；妄兴徭役，以夺农时；作为奸诈，以伤人财，则木失其性矣。
盖工匠之为轮矢者多伤败，及木为变怪，是为不曲直。
魏文帝黄初六年正月，雨，木冰。
案刘歆说，上阳施不下通，下阴施不上达，故雨，而木为之冰，氛气寒，木不曲直也。
刘向曰，冰者阴之盛，木者少阳，贵臣卿大夫象也。
此人将有害，则阴气胁木，木先寒，故得雨而冰也。
是年六月，利成郡兵蔡方等杀太守徐质，据郡反。
太守，古之诸侯，贵臣有害之应也。
一说以木冰为木介，介者甲兵之象。
是岁，既讨蔡方，又八月天子自将以舟师征吴，戍卒十余万，连旌数百里，临江观兵，又属常雨也。
元帝太兴三年二月辛未，雨，木冰。
后二年，周顗等遇害，是阳施不下通也。
穆帝永和八年正月乙巳，雨，木冰。
是年殷浩北伐，明年军败，十年废黜。
又曰，荀羡、殷浩北伐，桓温入关之象也。
孝武帝太元十四年十二月乙巳，雨，木冰。
明年二月王恭为北籓，八月庾楷为西籓，九月王国宝为中书令，寻加领军将军，十七年殷仲堪为荆州，虽邪正异规，而终同夷灭，是其应也。
吴孙亮建兴二年，诸葛恪征淮南，后所坐听事栋中折。
恪妄兴征役，夺农时，作邪谋，伤国财力，故木失其性致毁折也。
及旋师而诛灭，于《周易》又为 栋挠之凶 也。
武帝太康五年五月，宣帝庙地陷，梁折。
八年正月，太庙殿又陷，改作庙，筑基及泉。
其年九月，遂更营新庙，远致名材，杂以铜柱，陈勰为匠，作者六万人。
至十年四月乃成，十一月庚寅梁又折。
天戒若曰，地陷者分离之象，梁折者木不曲直也。
明年帝崩，而王室遂乱。
惠帝太安二年，成都王颖使陆机率众向京都，击长沙王乂，及军始引而牙竿折，俄而战败，机被诛，颖遂奔溃，卒赐死。
此奸谋之罚，木不曲直也。
元帝太兴四年，王敦在武昌，铃下仪仗生华如莲华，五六日而萎落。
此木失其性。

translation:
"Jing" says: Five elements: one is water, the second is fire, the third is wood, the fourth is metal, and the fifth is earth.
Water refers to moistening the lower part, fire refers to the flaming upper part, wood refers to straightness, gold refers to leather, and earth refers to crops.
The "Biography" says: If one does not return from the field to rest on time, does not eat and drink according to the gifts offered, does not go in and out according to the regulations, violates the farming season, and has evil plans, the tree will not be upright.
Commentary: Wood is the east.
In "Yi", the tree on the ground is "Guan".
In kingly affairs, one's majesty and appearance are impressive.
Therefore, there is a system for wearing jade when walking, there are festivals for hanging luan bells when boarding, there are regulations for three drives in the field, and there are etiquette for eating and drinking. There are regulations for going in and out, advising the people according to the seasons, encouraging farming and mulberry planting, planning and stabilizing the people. If you do this, the wood will get its nature.
If you go hunting in the fields without returning to the palace; if you indulge in food and drink without regard to the laws; if you engage in corvee work at will and violate the farming season; if you are hypocritical, evil and deceitful and harm the people's property, you will lose your nature.
The craftsmen who make chariots, bows and arrows are often in danger, and the Trojan spirit becomes strange and the creation is not straight.
In the first month of the sixth year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei, it rained and the trees froze.
Liu Xin said that there is yang above but not below, and there is yin below but no upwards, so it rains and the trees freeze because of it. This is because the evil energy is cold and the trees are not straight.
Liu Xiang said that ice represents the prosperity of yin and wood represents shaoyang, which is a symbol of noble ministers and officials.
This person will be hurt, and the yin energy will invade the wood. The wood will be cold first, so it will freeze when it rains.
In June of this year, Cai Fang and others, a soldier from Licheng County, killed the prefect Xu Zhi and occupied the county to rebel.
The prefect is like the princes in ancient times. This is the fulfillment of the harm to noble ministers.
One theory is that the frozen wood is wood, and the wood is a symbol of armor and soldiers.
That year, after the crusade against Cai Fang, and in August, the emperor himself led a navy to conquer the state of Wu, with more than 100,000 soldiers and banners stretching for hundreds of miles. He went to the Yangtze River to inspect the army, and it was Chang Yu.
In the second month of the third year of Emperor Taixing's reign, it rained and the trees froze.
In the next two years, Zhou Wei and others were killed. This was because the Yang Qi was not in harmony with the lower levels.
On Yisi, the first month of the eighth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, it rained and the trees froze.
Yin Hao was sent to the Northern Expedition in the first year, but was defeated in the second year, and Yonghe was deposed in the tenth year.
He also said that Xun Xian and Yin Hao's Northern Expedition was a sign of Huan Wen joining the alliance.
In the twelfth month of the 54th year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, it rained and the trees froze.
In February of the next year, Wang Gong became the commander-in-chief of the northern border. In August, Yu Kai became the commander-in-chief of the western border. In September, Wang Huangcha was appointed Zhongshuling, and soon became the general of the army. In the seventeenth year, Yin Zhongkan commanded Jingzhou. Although the evil and the righteous were different, they were all eliminated in the end. This was their sign.
In the second year of Wu Sunliang's reign, Zhuge Ke conquered Huainan, and the beams of the later official halls were broken.
Zhuge Ke increased taxes and corvee at will, violated the farming season, plotted evil schemes, and damaged the country's financial and material resources. Therefore, wood lost its nature and caused damage and breakage.
When he withdrew his troops and returned, he was executed and his clan was exterminated. He was also called "The Fierce of Dong Nao" in the "Book of Changes".
In May of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign in Taikang, the foundation of Emperor Xuan's temple collapsed and the beams were broken.
In the first month of the eighth year, the Imperial Ancestral Temple collapsed again, so the Imperial Ancestral Temple was rebuilt and the foundation and basement were built.
In September of that year, a new temple was rebuilt. Precious wood was found from far away and copper pillars were used. Chen Xie was appointed as the official craftsman, and 60,000 people built it.
It was not completed until April of the 10th year, and the Gengyin beam was broken again in November.
Tian Jie said this: The collapse of the earth is a sign of separation, and the broken beams and columns are a sign of the crookedness of the wood.
Emperor Wu died the next year, and the royal family was in chaos.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, sent Lu Ji and his troops to Kyoto to attack Sima Yi, king of Changsha. The flagpole of the flag broke just after the army was sent out. Soon after, they were defeated. Lu Ji was killed. Sima Ying broke up and fled, and was eventually sentenced to death.
This is punishment for an evil plan, and it has no merit.
In the fourth year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, when Wang Dun was in Wuchang, the ceremonial guard under the bell sprouted flowers like lotus, which withered and fell after five or six days.
Qi Shimu loses his nature.

summary:
The "Jing" says the five elements are water, fire, wood, metal, and earth, each with specific properties. The "Biography" states that if one violates farming seasons and has evil plans, trees will not be upright. Wood represents the east, and in "Yi," it is "Guan." In kingly affairs, majesty and appearance are important, with systems for walking, boarding, hunting, and eating. If these are followed, wood gains its nature; if violated, it loses it. In the sixth year of Huangchu, rain froze trees, interpreted as yin energy harming wood. This led to rebellions and military campaigns. Similar events occurred in later reigns, such as in the third year of Taixing and the eighth year of Yonghe, where frozen trees presaged conflicts and deaths. In the second year of Wu Sunliang, beams broke due to Zhuge Ke's violations, leading to his execution. In the fifth year of Taikang, temple beams broke, foretelling Emperor Wu's death and royal chaos. In the second year of Emperor Hui, a flagpole broke during a campaign, leading to defeat. In the fourth year of Taixing, a bell guard sprouted flowers, which withered, presaging Wang Dun's rebellion and execution.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 108-161 (score=0.5722)

original:
孙皓建衡二年三月，大火，烧万余家，死者七百人。
案《春秋》齐大灾，刘向以为桓公好内，听女口，妻妾数更之罚也。
时皓制令诡暴，荡弃法度，劳臣名士，诛斥甚众，后宫万余，女谒数行，其中隆宠佩皇后玺绶者又多矣，故有大火。
武帝太康八年三月乙丑，震灾西阁楚王所止坊及临商观窗。
十年四月癸丑，崇贤殿灾。
十一月庚辰，含章鞠室、修成堂前庑、景坊东屋、晖章殿南阁火。
时有上书曰： 汉王氏五侯，兄弟迭任，今杨氏三公，并在大位，故天变屡见，窃为陛下忧之。
由是杨珧求退。
是时帝纳冯紞之间，废张华之功，听杨骏之谗，离卫瓘之宠，此逐功臣之罚也。
明年，宫车宴驾。
其后楚王承窃发之旨，戮害二公，身亦不免。
震灾其坊，又天意乎。
惠帝元康五年闰月庚寅，武库火。
张华疑有乱，先命固守，然后救火。
是以累代异宝，王莽头，孔子屐，汉高祖断白蛇剑及二百八万器械，一时荡尽。
是后愍怀太子见杀之罚也。
天戒若曰，夫设险击柝，所以固其国，储积戒器，所以戒不虞。
今冢嗣将倾，社稷将泯，禁兵无所复施，皇旅又将谁卫。
帝后不悟，终丧四海，是其应也。
张华、阎纂皆曰，武库火而氐羌反，太子见废，则四海可知。
八年十一月，高原陵火。
是时贾后凶恣，贾谧擅朝，恶积罪稔，宜见诛绝。
天戒若曰，臣妾之不可者，虽亲贵莫比，犹宜忍而诛之，如吾燔高原陵也。
帝既眊弱，而张华又不纳裴頠、刘卞之谋，故后遂与谧杀太子也。
干宝以为 高原陵火，太子废之应。
汉武帝世，高园便殿火，董仲舒对与此占同 。
永康元年，帝纳皇后羊氏，后将入宫，衣中忽有火，众咸怪之。
永兴元年，成都王遂废后，处之金墉城。
是后还立，立而复废者四。
又诏赐死，荀籓表全之。
虽来还在位，然忧逼折辱，终古未闻。
此孽火之应也。
永兴二年七月甲午，尚书诸曹火起，延崇礼闼及阁道。
夫百揆王化之本，王者弃法津之应也。
后清河王覃入嗣，不终于位，又杀太子之罚也。
孝怀帝永嘉四年十一月，襄阳火，烧死者三千余人。
是时王如自号大将军、司雍二州牧，众四五万，攻略郡县。
此下陵上，阳失其节之应也。
元帝太兴中，王敦镇武昌，武昌灾，火起，兴众救之，救于此而发于彼，东西南北数十处俱应，数日不绝。
旧说所谓 滥炎妄起，虽兴师众，不能救之 之谓也。
干宝以为 此臣而君行，亢阳失节，是为王敦陵上，有无君之心，故灾也。
永昌二年正月癸巳，京师大火。
三月，饶安、东光、安陵三县火，烧七千余家，死者万五千人。
明帝太宁元年正月，京都火。
是时王敦威侮朝廷，多行无礼，内外臣下咸怀怨毒，极阴生阳也。
成帝咸和二年五月，京师火。
康帝建元元年七月庚申，吴郡灾。
穆帝永和五年六月，震灾石季龙太武殿及两庙端门。
震灾月余乃灭，金石皆尽。
其后季龙死，大乱，遂灭亡。
海西公太和中，郗愔为会稽太守。
六月大旱灾，火烧数千家。延及山阴仓米数百万斛，炎烟蔽天，不可扑灭。
此亦桓温强盛，将废海西，极阴生阳之应也。
孝武帝宁康元年三月，京师风火大起。

translation:
In March of the second year of Sun Hao's Jianheng reign, a fire burned more than 10,000 homes and killed 700 people.
"Spring and Autumn" tells about the great fire in Qi. Liu Xiang believed that it was because Duke Huan loved the inner chamber, obeyed women, and changed his wives and concubines many times as a punishment.
At that time, the law of Youbi was insidious and cruel, completely abandoning the law. Many ministers and virtuous people were killed and denounced. There were more than ten thousand people in the harem, and there were many queues of female officials who obeyed the orders. Among them, there were many who were especially fond of wearing the Queen's seal and ribbon, so there was a big fire.
In March of the eighth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign (Yichou), an earthquake and fire burned down the viewing window of Fanghe Linshang where the King of Chu lived in Xihe.
In April of the tenth year of Guichou, there was a fire in Chongxian Hall.
In the Gengchen period of November, there was a fire in the Hanzhang Ju Room, Xiucheng Hall Qianlian, Jingfang East Room, and Huizhang Hall Nanhe.
At that time, there was a report saying: The brothers of the five princes of the Han Dynasty held office one after another, and now the three princes of the Yang family are all in high positions. Therefore, there have been many disasters in heaven, and I am privately worried about this matter for your majesty.
Therefore, Yang Yao requested to resign.
Emperor Wu of the time listened to Feng You's instigation, abolished Zhang Hua's achievements, listened to Yang Jun's slander, and stopped doting on Wei Cui. This was a punishment for belittling the meritorious officials.
The next year, the emperor died.
After that, the King of Chu followed the secretly conveyed decree and killed the two princes, and he himself was not spared.
It must have been God's will that the earthquake destroyed his workshop.
In the leap month of Gengyin in the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a fire broke out in the military supplies warehouse.
Zhang Hua suspected that there was something wrong and ordered him to hold on. Then put out the fire.
Therefore, the rare treasures of the past dynasties, such as Wang Mangtou, Confucius' clog, Mo Gaozu's White Snake Sword and the instruments used by two million people, were all gone for a while.
This was the punishment for the later murder of Prince Huai.
Tian Jie said that the purpose of setting up guards in dangerous places is to protect the country, and the purpose of stockpiling weapons is to prepare for unexpected situations.
Now that the country is about to overthrow, the country is about to perish, and the imperial guards have nowhere to go, who will the royal army defend?
The emperor and the empress did not wake up and finally lost the world. This was a sign.
Zhang Hua and Jian Zhuan both said that if the military supplies warehouse caught fire, the Di and Qiang rebelled, and the prince was deposed, then the situation in the world could be predicted.
In November of the eighth year, Gaoyuan Mausoleum caught fire.
When he was sent and bought, he was vicious and wanton, and Jia Mi was arbitrary in the government. His crimes were serious and he should be killed.
Heaven's commandment says that the bad ones among the concubines, even if they are extremely intimate and noble, should still suppress their emotions and punish them, just like the heaven burning the mausoleums on the plateau.
Emperor Hui was stupid and cowardly, and Zhang Hua did not adopt the strategies of Pei Hao and Liu Bian, so Empress Jia and Jia Mi killed the prince.
Qian Bao believed that the fire in Gaoyuan Mausoleum was a sign that the prince would be deposed.
During the reign of Emperor Mowu, a fire broke out in the banquet hall of Gaoyuan, and Dong Zhongshu responded in the same way.
In the first year of Yongkang, Emperor Hui married Queen Yang. When the Queen was about to enter the palace, there was a fire in her clothes. Everyone was surprised.
In the first year of Yongxing, the king of Chengdu deposed the queen and asked her to live in Jinyong City.
After that, he was re-established and then deposed, a total of four times.
Then Shao ordered her to die, and Xun Fan sent a memorial to preserve her.
Although she came back to restore her position as queen, such persecution and humiliation has never been heard of since ancient times.
This is a sign of evil fire.
In the seventh month of the second year of Yongxing, fires broke out all over Shangshu Province and spread to Chongli Gui and Pavilion Road.
Officials are the foundation of education and a sign that the king has abandoned the law.
Later, Sima Tan, the king of Qinghe, entered the palace and succeeded to the throne. If he did not die well on the throne, it was also the punishment for killing the prince.
In November of the fourth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, a fire broke out in Xiangyan, killing more than 3,000 people.
At that time, Wang Dian claimed to be a general and the shepherd of Siyong and the two prefectures. He had a tribe of 40,000 to 50,000 people and captured the counties.
This is a sign that the Yang Qi is out of control.
During the Taixing period of Emperor Yuan, Wang Dun was guarding Wuchang. Wuchang was hit by a fire. The fire broke out and the people were asked to put out the fire. After saving the fire, it started elsewhere. Fires broke out in dozens of places in the east, west, south, and north, and they continued for several days.
This is the old saying that a raging fire can't be extinguished even if the troops are mobilized.
Wang Xuan believes that this is the behavior of a minister acting like a king, and the Yang Qi is out of control. It is because Wang Dun bullies his superiors and has the heart to ignore the king, so there is fire.
In the first month of the second year of Yongchang, there was a big fire in Kyoto.
In March, fires broke out in Rao'an, Dongguang and Anling counties, burning more than 7,000 homes and killing 15,000 people.
In the first month of the first year of Emperor Taining's reign, a fire broke out in Kyoto.
At this time, Wang Dun invaded and insulted the imperial court, and most of his actions were very rude. All the ministers inside and outside the imperial court were resentful and angry, which was extremely yin and yang.
In May of the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the capital caught fire.
In July of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, there was a fire in Wujun.
In June of the fifth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, an earthquake and fire destroyed Dongzhuzhan Hall and the end gates of the two temples.
It took more than a month for the earthquake and fire to be extinguished, and all the gold and stone were burned down.
This year Shi Jilong died, and there was great chaos and soon perished.
During the reign of Haixi Gongtaihe, Xi Min was appointed as the prefect of Kuaiji.
In June, there was a severe drought and fires burned thousands of homes, spread and burned millions of rice in Shanyin warehouse. The flames and smoke covered the sky and could not be extinguished.
It is also a sign that the Zunyou Basin will be destroyed because of its excessive yin and yang.
In March of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, a strong wind and fire broke out in the capital.

summary:
The "Biography" says that if one abandons law, drives out heroes, kills princes, and takes concubines as wives, fire will not burn. Fire represents the south and brilliance. For kings, it is about ruling with light. Yao and Shun promoted talents and exiled the treacherous. If one follows this, fire gains its nature; if not, it loses it, leading to fires in palaces and temples. In the fifth year of Taihe, the Qing Shang Palace burned due to Emperor Wei Ming taking a concubine as queen. In the first year of Qinglong, fires occurred in Luoyang Palace, and Emperor Ming ignored advice to stop construction, leading to more fires. In the first year of Jianxing, fires at Wuchang's Duanmen were linked to Zhuge Ke's arrogance. In the second year of Taiping, a fire in Jianye was man-made, tied to Sun Lin's actions. In the fifth year of Yong'an, fires occurred due to Zhang Bu's misconduct. In the second year of Jianheng, a great fire killed 700 people, linked to Sun Hao's cruelty. In the eighth year of Taikang, fires destroyed buildings, tied to the Yang family's power. In the fifth year of Yuankang, a fire in the military supplies warehouse destroyed treasures, presaging the prince's murder. In the eighth year, Gaoyuan Mausoleum burned, linked to Empress Jia's crimes. In the first year of Yongkang, a fire in the queen's clothes presaged her deposition. In the second year of Yongxing, fires in Shangshu Province were tied to the king's abandonment of law. In the fourth year of Yongjia, a fire killed 3,000 people, linked to Wang Dian's rebellion. During Taixing, fires in Wuchang were tied to Wang Dun's arrogance. In the second year of Yongchang, a great fire in Kyoto was tied to Wang Dun's invasion. In the first year of Taining, another fire occurred. In the second year of Xianhe, the capital burned. In the first year of Xiankang, Wujun had a fire. In the fifth year of Yonghe, an earthquake and fire destroyed halls. During Haixi Gongtaihe, a fire burned thousands of homes. In the first year of Ningkang, a strong wind and fire occurred, tied to Huan Wen's ambitions. In the tenth year of Taiyuan, students set fires. In the thirteenth year, fires in Yanxian Hall and other places were tied to government shortcomings. In the second year of Long'an, dragon boats burned. In the first year of Yuanxing, the Shangshu office burned. In the third year, a fire in Guangzhou killed 10,000 people. In the fourth year of Yixi, fires occurred in official offices, and in the ninth and eleventh years, fires raged in Kyoto.

================================================================================

Summary line 4
Span: 186-212 (score=0.5961)

original:
王弘时为吴郡，昼在听事，见天上有一赤物下，状如信幡，遥集路南人家屋上，火即大发。
弘知天为之灾，故不罪火主。
此帝室衰微之应也。
《传》曰： 修宫室，饰台榭，内淫乱，犯亲戚，侮兄弟，则稼穑不成。
说曰：土，中央，生万物者也。
其于王者，为内事，宫室、夫妇、亲属，亦相生者也。
古者天子诸侯，宫庙大小高卑有制，后夫人媵妾多少有度，九族亲疏长幼有序。
孔子曰： 礼，与其奢也，宁俭。
故禹卑宫室，文王刑于寡妻，此圣人之所以昭教化也。
如此，则土得其性矣。
若乃奢淫骄慢，则土失其性。
亡水旱之灾而草木百谷不熟，是为稼穑不成。
吴孙皓时，常岁无水旱，苗稼丰美而实不成，百姓以饥，阖境皆然，连岁不已。
吴人以为伤露，非也。
案刘向《春秋说》曰 水旱当书，不书水旱而曰大无麦禾者，土气不养，稼穑不成 ，此其义也。
皓初迁都武昌，寻还建鄴，又起新馆，缀饰珠玉，壮丽过甚，破坏诸营，增广苑囿，犯暑妨农，官私疲怠。
《月令》，季夏不可以兴土功，皓皆冒之。
此修宫室饰台榭之罚也。
元帝太兴二年，吴郡、吴兴、东阳无麦禾，大饥。
成帝咸和五年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
穆帝永和十年，三麦不登。
十二年，大无麦。
孝武太元六年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
安帝元兴元年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
《传》曰： 好战攻，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，则金不从革。
说曰：金，西方，万物既成，杀气之始也。
故立秋而鹰隼击，秋分而微霜降。

translation:
Wang Hong was serving in Wu County at that time and was handling political affairs in the government office during the day. He saw a red object coming down from the sky, shaped like a flag, and quickly landed on the roof of a house in the south of the road, causing a fire.
Wang Hong knew that the fire was caused by heaven, so he did not punish the owner of the fire.
This is a sign of the decline and fall of the imperial family.
"The Biography" says: If you build palaces, decorate pavilions, engage in sexual immorality at home, bully your relatives, and insult your father and elder brothers, your crops will not be harvested.
Explanation: Earth, in the center, is the source of all things.
For the king, it is internal affairs, and the palace, husband and wife, and relatives also have a mutual relationship.
In ancient times, for the emperors and princes, there were regulations on the size of palaces and temples, there were certain limits on the number of queens, wives, and concubines, and the elders and younger relatives of the nine tribes had their own etiquette.
Confucius said: It is better to be frugal than to be extravagant in etiquette.
Therefore, Yu built a low palace and King Wen showed it to future generations. This was a way for the saint to declare his enlightenment.
By doing this, the earth will acquire its true nature.
If it is luxurious, licentious, arrogant and arrogant, earth will lose its nature.
There are no floods or droughts, but the vegetation and grains are all immature, which means there is no harvest.
During Wu Sunhao's time, there were no floods or droughts in normal years. The crops grew well but there was no food. As a result, the people suffered from hunger. This was the case throughout the territory, year after year.
People in Wu thought it was caused by dew, but it wasn't.
Liu Xiang's "Chun Qiu Shuo" said that floods and droughts should be recorded. If floods and droughts are not recorded and there is no wheat, it means that the soil is not nourishing and the crops will not be successful. This is the reason.
Sun Hao initially moved the capital to Wuchang, but soon returned to Jianye. He built new buildings, decorated with jewels and jade, which were extremely magnificent. He destroyed the camps, expanded the palaces and gardens, hindered the farming season, harmed the farmers, and the government and the people were tired and slack.
According to the "Moon Order", no large-scale construction work can be carried out in late summer, and Sun Hao was offended.
This is a punishment for building decorative terraces and pavilions in palaces.
In the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was no wheat in Wujun, Wuxing, and Shuyang, and there was a severe famine.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, there were no wheat seedlings and there was a great famine in the world.
In the tenth year of Emperor Mu's reign, the three crops of wheat were not ripe.
For twelve years, there was no wheat in a large area.
In the sixth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, there was no wheat and there was a great famine in the world.
In the first year of Emperor An's Yuanxing, there was no wheat and there was a great famine in the world.
"The Biography" says: If he likes war and attack, despises the people, repairs the city walls, and invades the borders, Jin will not follow the revolution.
Explanation: Gold, the west, all things have grown up, which is the beginning of murderous intent.
Therefore, hawks and falcons hunt after the beginning of autumn, and light frost falls after the autumnal equinox.

summary:
The "Biography" says that if one builds palaces, engages in sexual immorality, and insults relatives, crops will not be harvested. Earth represents the center and internal affairs. If one is frugal, earth gains its nature; if luxurious, it loses it, leading to crop failure. During Wu Sunhao's time, crops grew but yielded no food, causing famine, due to his extravagant building and neglect of farming. In the second year of Taixing, there was no wheat in Wujun. In the fifth year of Xianhe, no wheat seedlings led to famine. In the tenth year of Yonghe, wheat did not ripen. In the sixth year of Taiyuan, no wheat caused famine. In the first year of Yuanxing, another famine occurred.

================================================================================

Summary line 5
Span: 210-254 (score=0.6591)

original:
《传》曰： 好战攻，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，则金不从革。
说曰：金，西方，万物既成，杀气之始也。
故立秋而鹰隼击，秋分而微霜降。
其于王事，出军行师，把旄杖钺，誓士众，抗威武，所以征叛逆，止暴乱也。
《诗》云： 有虔执钺，如火烈烈。
又曰： 载戢干戈，载橐弓矢。
动静应宜，说以犯难，人忘其死，金得其性矣。
若乃贪欲恣睢，务立威胜，不重人命，则金失其性。
盖工冶铸金铁，冰滞涸坚，不成者众，乃为变怪，是为金不从革。
魏时张掖石瑞，虽是晋之符命，而于魏为妖。
好攻战，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，魏氏三祖皆有其事。
石图发于非常之文，此不从革之异也。
晋定大业，多毙曹氏，石瑞文 大讨曹 之应也。
案刘歆以《春秋》石言于晋，为金石同类也，是为金不从革，失其性也，刘向以为石白色为主，属白祥。
魏明帝青龙中，盛修宫室，西取长安金狄，承露槃折，声闻数十里，金狄泣，于是因留霸城。
此金失其性而为异也。
吴时，历阳县有岩穿，似印，咸云 石印封发，天下太平 。
孙皓天玺元年，印发。
又，阳羡山有石穴，长十余丈。
皓初修武昌宫，有迁都之意。
是时武昌为离宫。
班固云 离宫与城郭同占 ，饰城郭之谓也。
其宝鼎三年后，皓出东关，遣丁奉至合肥，建衡三年皓又大举出华里，侵边境之谓也。
故令金失其性，卒面缚而吴亡。
惠帝元康三年闰二月，殿前六钟皆出涕，五刻止。
前年贾后杀杨太后于金墉城，而贾后为恶不止，故钟出涕，犹伤之也。
永兴元年，成都伐长沙，每夜戈戟锋有火光如悬烛。
此轻人命，好攻战，金失其性而为光变也。
天戒若曰，兵犹火也，不戢将自焚。
成都不悟，终以败亡。
怀帝永嘉元年，项县有魏豫州刺史贾逵石碑，生金可采，此金不从革而为变也。
五月，汲桑作乱，群寇飙起。
清河王覃为世子时，所佩金铃忽生起如粟者，康王母疑不祥，毁弃之。
及后为惠帝太子，不终于位，卒为司马越所杀。
愍帝建兴五年，石言于平阳。
是时帝蒙尘亦在平阳，故有非言之物而言，妖之大者。
俄而帝为逆胡所弑。
元帝永昌元年，甘卓将袭王敦，既而中止。
及还，家多变怪，照镜不见其头。
此金失其性而为妖也。
寻为敦所袭，遂夷灭。
石季龙时，鄴城凤阳门上金凤皇二头飞入漳河。
海西太和中，会稽山阴县起仓，凿地得两大船，满中钱，钱皆轮文大形。
时日向暮，凿者驰以告官，官夜遣防守甚严。
至明旦，失钱所在，惟有船存。

translation:
"The Biography" says: If he likes war and attack, despises the people, repairs the city walls, and invades the borders, Jin will not follow the revolution.
Explanation: Gold, the west, all things have grown up, which is the beginning of murderous intent.
Therefore, hawks and falcons hunt after the beginning of autumn, and light frost falls after the autumnal equinox.
The king's business is to mobilize the army, hold the flag, fight with ax and iron, swear an oath to the soldiers, and inspire the power to conquer the rebellious traitors and stop the rebellion.
"The Book of Songs" says: Holding the axe mightily, it is as prosperous as fire.
He also said: Put away your weapons and put your bows and arrows in your bag.
Movement and stillness are appropriate, and dangers are met happily. People forget about death, and gold has its nature.
If greed is indulged, blindly establishing prestige and victory, and not paying attention to life, gold will lose its nature.
As craftsmen smelt and cast gold and iron, the coldness, condensation, dryness and hardness caused many of them to become mutated monsters, making the metal unable to follow the leather.
During the Wei Dynasty, Zhangye's stone was auspicious. Although it was the talisman of Jin, it was a monster to Wei.
They like to attack and fight, ignore the people, build cities, and invade borders. The three ancestors of the Wei family all had such things.
The stone map shows unusual pictures and texts, which is the weirdness of Jin Bu Congge.
The great cause of the Jin Dynasty and the killing of many Cao family members were a sign of Shi Rui's graphic and written campaign against Cao Cao family.
Liu Xin believes that when "Spring and Autumn" mentions stone in the Jin Dynasty, it is the same kind as metal and stone. This is because metal does not follow the rules and loses its nature. Liu Xiang believes that the stone is mainly white and belongs to Baixiang.
During the Qinglong period of Emperor Ming of Wei Dynasty, he renovated the palace on a large scale. He went west to get the bronze statue of Chang'an. The dew plate broke and the sound spread for ten miles. The bronze statue shed tears, so he stayed in Bacheng.
This is when gold loses its nature and becomes weird.
During the Wu Dynasty, there was a rock in Liyang County with a seal, and it was said that if the stone seal is unsealed, the world will be at peace.
In the first year of Sun Hao's Tianxi, the seal was opened.
Also, there is a stone cave on Yangxian Mountain, which is more than ten feet long.
Sun Hao initially built Wuchang Palace and had the idea of ​​moving the capital.
During the Han Dynasty, Wuchang was the Ligong Palace.
Ban Gu said that the divination of leaving the palace is the same as that of the city, which refers to the construction of the city.
Three years after Xuan Gu, Qiangbi left the Sai League and sent workers to Jinfei. In the third year of Jianman, Sun Hao left China on a large scale, which can be called a border invasion.
Therefore, Jin lost his nature, eventually tied his arms and surrendered, and the Wu Kingdom perished.
In the second month of the third year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, all the six bells in front of the palace shed tears and stopped after five quarters.
The previous year, Mai Li killed Jin Shanqiu after disturbing the situation, but Mai Hou continued to do evil, so Zhong shed tears and seemed to be sad about this.
In the first year of Yongxing, King Shengdu attacked the Kenye workers. Every night, the blade of the halberd shone like a hanging candle.
This is to ignore human life and like to attack and fight. Metal loses its nature and changes in light.
Tian Jie said this, soldiers are like fire. If you don't restrain yourself, you will burn yourself.
The King of Chengdu did not wake up and finally failed and perished.
In the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, there was a stone tablet of Jia Kui, the governor of Wei Yuzhou, in Xiang County. The gold produced could be harvested. This was because the gold was mutated because it was not produced.
In May, chaos broke out in Jisang, and many bandits broke out.
When Sima Qin, King of Qinghe, was the heir apparent, the golden bell he was wearing suddenly produced something like millet. King Kang's mother suspected that it was unlucky, so she destroyed it and threw it away.
The prince who later became Emperor Hui did not die well on the throne and was eventually killed by Sima Yue.
In the fifth year of Emperor Min's reign, there were stones talking in Pingyang.
Emperor Min of Japan was also in trouble in Pingyang, so something that couldn't speak spoke, and it was a big monster.
Soon Emperor Min was killed by the rebellious Hu people.
In the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, Ganzhuo prepared to attack Wangdun, but stopped midway.
When I returned, there were many strange things happening at home, and I couldn't see my head when I looked in the mirror.
This is when gold loses its nature and becomes a demon.
Soon he was attacked by Wang Dun and was executed.
During the reign of Shi Jilong, there were two golden phoenixes flying in and out of Fengyang Gate in Yecheng.
During the Taihe period of Haixi Gong, a warehouse was built in Shanyin County, Kuaiji, and two large ships were obtained by digging in the ground, filled with money, and the money was all in the shape of a wheel.
It was near dusk at that time, and the excavators hurried to report to the government, who sent people to strictly guard the site overnight.
At dawn, the money was nowhere to be found, only the boat was still there.

summary:
The "Biography" says that if one likes war, despises the people, and invades borders, metal will not follow its nature. Metal represents the west and murder. If movement is appropriate, metal gains its nature; if greed and war prevail, it loses it, leading to metal monsters. During the Wei Dynasty, Zhangye's stone was auspicious for Jin but a monster for Wei. In the Qinglong period, a bronze statue shed tears, showing metal's loss of nature. In the Wu Dynasty, a stone seal was opened, and a stone cave appeared. Sun Hao's building of Wuchang Palace and border invasions led to metal losing its nature, and Wu perished. In the third year of Yuankang, bells shed tears, presaging chaos. In the first year of Yongxing, halberd blades shone like candles, tied to war. In the first year of Yongjia, a stone tablet produced gold, a monster. In the fifth year of Emperor Min, stones spoke in Pingyang, presaging his death. In the first year of Yongchang, Ganzhuo saw strange things in a mirror, tied to his execution. During Shi Jilong's reign, golden phoenixes appeared. During Haixi Gong's Taihe period, a boat filled with money was found but disappeared.

================================================================================

Summary line 6
Span: 330-392 (score=0.5290)

original:
五年九月，郡国四大水，又陨霜。
是月，南安等五郡大水。
六年四月，郡国十大水，坏庐舍。
七年九月，郡国八大水。
八月六月，郡国八大水。
惠帝元康二年，有水灾。
五年五月，颍川、淮南大水。
六月，城阳、东莞大水，杀人，荆、扬、徐、兗、豫五州又水。
是时帝即位已五载，犹未郊祀，其蒸尝亦多不亲行事。
此简宗庙废祭祀之罚。
六年五月，刑、扬二州大水。
是时贾后乱朝，宠树贾、郭，女主专政，阴气盛之应也。
八年五月，金墉城井溢。
《汉志》，成帝时有此妖，后王莽僭逆。
今有此妖，赵王伦篡位，伦废帝于此城，井溢所在，其天意也。
九月，荆、扬、徐、冀、豫五州大水。
是时贾后暴戾滋甚，韩谧骄猜弥扇，卒害太子，旋以祸灭。
九年四月，宫中井水沸溢。
永宁元年七月，南阳、东海大水。
是时齐王冏专政，阴盛之应也。
太安元年七月，兗、豫、徐、冀四州水。
时将相力政，无尊主心，阴盛故也。
孝怀帝永嘉四年四月，江东大水。
时王导等潜怀翼戴之计，阴气盛也。
元帝太兴三年六月，大水。
是时王敦内怀不臣，傲很陵上，此阴气盛也。
四年七月，又大水。
永昌二年五月，荆州及丹阳、宣城、吴兴、寿春大水。
明帝太宁元年五月，丹阳、宣城、吴兴、寿春大水。
是时王敦威权震主，阴气盛故也。
成帝咸和元年五月，大水。
是时嗣主幼冲，母后称制，庾亮以元舅决事禁中，阴胜阳故也。
二年五月戊子，京都大水。
是冬，以苏峻称兵，都邑涂地。
四年七月，丹阳、宣城、吴兴、会稽大水。
是冬，郭默作乱，荆豫共讨之，半岁乃定，兵役之应也。
七年五月，大水。
是时帝未亲机务，政在大臣，阴胜阳也。
咸康元年八月，长沙、武陵大水。
穆帝永和四年五月，大水。
五年五月，大水。
六年五月，又大水。
时幼主冲弱，母后临朝，又将相大臣各执权政，与咸和初同事也。
七年七月甲辰夜，涛水入石头，死者数百人。
是时殷浩以私忿废蔡谟，遐迩非之。
又幼主在上而殷桓交恶，选徒聚甲，各崇私权，阴胜阳之应也。
一说，涛水入石头，以为兵占。
是后殷浩、桓温、谢尚、荀羡连年征伐，百姓愁怨也。
升平二年五月，大水。
五年四月，又大水。
是时桓温权制朝廷，专征伐，阴胜阳也。
海西太和六年六月，京师大水，平地数尺，浸及太庙。
硃雀大航缆断，三艘流入大江。
丹阳、晋陵、吴郡、吴兴、临海五郡又大水，稻稼荡没，黎庶饥馑。
初，四年桓温北伐败绩，十丧其九，五年又征淮南，逾岁乃克，百姓愁怨之应也。
简文帝咸安元年十二月壬午，涛水入石头。
明年，妖贼卢竦率其属数百人入殿，略取武库三库甲仗，游击将军毛安之讨灭之，兵兴、阴盛之应也。
孝武帝太元三年六月，大水。
是时帝幼弱，政在将相。
五年五月，大水。
六年六月，扬、荆、江三州大水。
八年三月，始兴、南康、庐陵大水，平地五丈。
十年五月，大水。

translation:
In September of the fifth year, there were floods and frost in the four counties.
That month, how could we wait for the floods to hit the five counties?
In April of the sixth year, floods occurred in the ten counties, destroying the houses.
In September of the seventh year, there was a flood in the eight counties.
In June of the eighth year, there was a flood in the eight counties.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, there was a flood.
In May of the fifth year, floods occurred in Yingchuan and Huainan.
In June, floods occurred in Chengyang and Dongguan, killing people, and floods occurred again in Jing, Yang, Xu, Yan, and Yu prefectures.
At this time, Emperor Hui had been on the throne for five years, and still no suburban festivals were held, and most of the winter and autumn festivals were not held in person.
This is a punishment for neglecting sacrifices in the simple ancestral temple.
In May of the sixth year, floods occurred in Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
When the Empress Jia was sent, she disturbed the government affairs and favored Yong Mai and Guo. The heroine was arbitrary in the government affairs, which was a sign of strong Yin energy.
In May of the eighth year, the well in Jinyong City overflowed.
According to "Han Chronicles", there was such a change when he became emperor, and later Wang Mang usurped the throne.
Now there is such a change. King Sima Lun of Zhao usurps the throne. Sima Lun deposes Emperor Hui in this city. The well in the place where he is located is overflowing. It is God's will.
In September, floods occurred in the five prefectures of Jing, Yang, Xu, Hebei, and Henan.
At this time, the cruelty and surliness after the purchase became more serious, and Han Mi's arrogance and suspicion became more arrogant, and finally killed the prince, who was soon eliminated due to the disaster.
In April of the ninth year, the well in the palace was boiling and overflowing.
In July of the first year of Yongning, floods occurred in Nanyang and Shuhai.
At this time, King Sima Tong of Qi was in charge of the government, which was a sign of strong Yin Qi.
In July of the first year of Tai'an, floods occurred in the four prefectures of Yan, Henan, Xu, and Hebei.
During the period of time, the generals were trying to control the affairs of the state and had no intention of respecting their masters. This was due to the strong Yin Qi.
In April of the fourth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, the river flooded.
At that time, Wang Dao and others secretly had a plan to support the new emperor, which was full of evil.
In June of the third year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was a flood.
At this time, Wang Dun had a traitorous heart and was arrogant and bullying the monarch. This was a sign of strong Yin energy.
In July of the fourth year, there was another flood.
In May of the second year of Yongchang, floods occurred in Jingzhou, Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing, and Shouchun.
In May of the first year of Taining, Emperor Ming, floods occurred in Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing and Shouchun.
During the period of time, Wang Dun had great power and threatened the monarch. This was due to the strong Yin Qi.
In May of the first year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, there was a flood.
At this time, the king who succeeded to the throne was young, and his mother and descendants exercised their authority. Yu Liang controlled the political power in the palace as the eldest uncle. This was because the yin energy prevailed over the yang energy.
In May of the second year of Wuzi, there was a flood in Kyoto.
That winter, because Su Jun raised his troops, the city was destroyed.
In July of the fourth year, floods occurred in Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing, and Kuaiji.
In the winter of that year, Guo Mo rebelled, and Jing and Yu jointly attacked him. It took half a year to pacify him. This was a sign of military war.
In May of the seventh year, there was a flood.
At this time, the emperor cannot handle government affairs personally, and the power is controlled by ministers. This is the victory of yin and yang.
In August of the first year of Xiankang, floods occurred in Changsha and Wuling.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, there was a flood.
In May of the fifth year, there was a flood.
In May of the sixth year, there was another flood.
At that time, the young monarch was naive, his mother acted as the agent of the government, and the generals, ministers and ministers each had power. The situation was the same as in the early years of Xianhe.
On the night of Jiachen in the seventh month of the seventh year, raging water rushed into the rocks, killing hundreds of people.
At this time, Yin Hao dismissed Cai Mo out of personal anger, and people near and far blamed him.
Also, when the young monarch was in power, there was a conflict between Yin Hao and Huan Wen, so he selected his tribesmen and gathered sergeants, each of whom wanted to improve his power and prestige. This was a sign that yin triumphed over yang.
It is said that raging water rushing into Hutou is considered to be a harbinger of war.
Later, Yin Hao, Dan Wen, Yao Shi, and Jie Shi continued their campaigns and campaigns year after year, making the people sad and resentful.
In May of the second year of Shengping, there was a flood.
In April of the fifth year, there was another flood.
At this time, Huan Wen controlled the government and specialized in conquests. Yin prevailed over Yang.
In June of the sixth year of Taihe in Haixi, there was a flood in the capital. The flat ground was as deep as a foot, and it flooded to the Ancestral Temple.
The cables of the Suzaku ship broke and three ships flowed into the river.
Floods occurred again in Danyang, Jinling, Wujun, Wuxing and Linhai counties, washing away crops and causing famine among the people.
At the beginning, Huan Wen's Northern Expedition failed in four years, with losses of nine-tenths. In five years, Huainan was conquered, and it took more than a year to pacify it. This was a sign of the people's sorrow and resentment.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Jianwen's reign in Xian'an, at Renwu, the raging water rushed into the stone.
The next year, the thief Lu Chang led hundreds of people into the palace and plundered the weapons and honors in the arsenal. The guerrilla general Mao Anzhi attacked and eliminated him. This was a sign of the rise of the army.
In June of the third year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu, there was a flood.
At this time, Emperor Xiaowu was young and the government was in the hands of the generals.
In May of the fifth year, there was a flood.
In June of the sixth year, floods occurred in Yang, Jing, and Jiang prefectures.
In March of the eighth year, floods occurred in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the plains were five feet deep.
In May of the tenth year, there was a flood.

summary:
The "Biography" says that if one treats the ancestral temple slowly and neglects sacrifices, water will not flow. Water represents the north and collection. If one respects ghosts and gods and follows timing, water gains its nature; if not, it loses it, leading to floods. In the fourth year of Emperor Wen of Wei, heavy rain caused floods, due to neglecting ancestral temples. In the eighth year of Wu Sunquan's Chiwu reign, floods occurred, tied to his lack of temple building. In the first year of Jingchu, continuous rain caused floods, tied to Emperor Ming's licentiousness. In the first year of Wufeng, floods occurred due to neglected temples. In the fourth year of Yong'an, heavy rain caused floods, tied to construction and rebellion. In the fourth year of Taishi, floods occurred due to neglected sacrifices. In the first year of Xianning, floods occurred, tied to selecting palace women. In the second year of Taikang, floods occurred, tied to Wang Jun's slander. In the second year of Emperor Hui, floods occurred due to no suburban festivals. In the fifth year, floods occurred, tied to Empress Jia's power. In the eighth year, a well overflowed, presaging Sima Lun's usurpation. In the ninth year, a palace well boiled. In the first year of Yongning, floods occurred. In the first year of Tai'an, floods occurred. In the fourth year of Yongjia, the river flooded. In the third year of Taixing, floods occurred due to Wang Dun's treachery. In the second year of Yongchang, floods occurred. In the first year of Taining, floods occurred. In the first year of Xianhe, floods occurred due to the young emperor. In the second year, floods occurred, tied to Su Jun's rebellion. In the fourth year, floods occurred due to Guo Mo's rebellion. In the seventh year, floods occurred due to ministers' power. In the first year of Xiankang, floods occurred. In the fourth year of Yonghe, floods occurred. In the seventh year, raging water killed hundreds, tied to Yin Hao's actions. In the second year of Shengping, floods occurred. In the sixth year of Taihe, floods occurred, tied to Huan Wen's failed expedition. In the first year of Xian'an, raging water occurred, tied to Lu Chang's rebellion. In the third year of Taiyuan, floods occurred. In the fifth year, floods occurred. In the eighth year, floods occurred. In the tenth year, floods occurred. In the thirteenth year, raging water occurred. In the fifteenth year, floods occurred. In the seventeenth year, raging water occurred. In the eighteenth year, floods occurred. In the nineteenth year, floods occurred. In the twentieth year, floods occurred. In the twenty-first year, floods occurred. In the third year of Long'an, floods occurred. In the fifth year, floods occurred. In the second year of Yuanxing, Huan Xuan usurped the throne. In the third year, raging water occurred. In the first year of Yixi, raging water occurred. In the second year, raging water occurred. In the third year, floods occurred. In the fourth year, raging water occurred. In the sixth year, floods occurred. In the eighth year, floods occurred. In the ninth year, floods occurred. In the tenth year, floods occurred, and the ground cracked at Ximing Gate. In the eleventh year, floods occurred.

================================================================================

Summary line 7
Span: 642-703 (score=0.4603)

original:
遂布天下，亦服妖也。
无几时，孝武晏驾而天下骚动，刑戮无数，多丧其元。
至于大殓，皆刻木及蜡或缚菰草为头，是假头之应云。
桓玄篡立，殿上施绛帐，镂黄金为颜，四角金龙衔五色羽葆流苏。
群下相谓曰： 颇类轜车。
寻而玄败，此服之妖也。
晋末皆冠小而衣裳博大，风流相放，舆台成俗。
识者曰： 上小而下大，此禅代之象也。
寻而宋受终焉。
鸡祸魏明帝景初二年，廷尉府中雌鸡化为雄，不鸣不将。
干宝曰： 是岁宣帝平辽东，百姓始有与能之义，此其象也。
然晋三后并以人臣终，不鸣不将，又天意也。
惠帝元康六年，陈国有鸡生雄鸡无翅，既大，坠坑而死。
王隐以为： 雄者，胤嗣子之象。
坑者，母象。
今鸡生无翅，坠坑而死，此子无羽翼，为母所陷害乎？
于后贾后诬杀愍怀，此其应也。
太安中，周家雌鸡逃承溜中，六七日而下，奋翼鸣将，独毛羽不变。
其后有陈敏之事。
敏虽控制江表，终无纪纲文章，殆其象也。
卒为所灭。
鸡祸见家，又天意也。
京房《易传》曰： 牝鸡雄鸣，主不荣。
元帝太兴中，王敦镇武昌，有雌鸡化为雄。
天戒若曰，雌化为雄，臣陵其上。
其后王敦再攻京师。
孝武太元十三年四月，广陵高平阎嵩家雌鸡生无右翅，彭城人刘象之家鸡有三足。
京房《易传》曰： 君用妇人言，则鸡生妖。
是时，主相并用尼媪之言，宠赐过厚，故妖象见焉。
安帝隆安元年八月，琅邪王道子家青雌鸡化为赤雄鸡，不鸣不将。
桓玄将篡，不能成业之象。
四年，荆州有鸡生角，角寻堕落。
是时桓玄始擅西夏，狂慢不肃，故有鸡祸。
天戒若曰，角，兵象，寻堕落者，暂起不终之妖也。
后皆应也。
元兴二年，衡阳有雌鸡化为雄，八十日而冠萎。
天戒若曰，衡阳，桓玄楚国之邦略也。
及桓玄篡位，果八十日而败，此其应也。
青祥武帝咸宁元年八月丁酉，大风折大社树，有青气出焉，此青祥也。
占曰： 东莞当有帝者。
明年，元帝生。
是时，帝大父武王封东莞，由是徙封琅邪。
孙盛以为中兴之表。
晋室之乱，武帝子孙无孑遗，社树折之应，又常风之罚。
惠帝元康中，洛阳南山有虻作声，曰 韩尸尸 。
识者曰： 韩氏将尸也，言尸尸者，尽死意也。
其后韩谧诛而韩族歼焉，此青祥也。
金沴木魏文帝黄初七年正月，幸许昌。
许昌城南门无故自崩，帝心恶之，遂不入，还洛阳。
此金沴木，木动之也。
五月，宫车晏驾。京房《易传》曰： 上下咸悖，厥妖也城门坏。 元帝太兴二年六月，吴郡米庑无故自坏。
天戒若曰，夫米庑，货籴之屋，无故自坏，此五谷踊贵，所以无籴卖也。
是岁遂大饥，死者千数焉。
明帝太宁元年，周莚自归王敦，既立其宅宇，所起五间六梁，一时跃出坠地，余桁犹亘柱头。
此金沴木也。
明年五月，钱凤谋乱，遂族灭莚，而湖熟寻亦为墟矣。
安帝元兴元年正月丙子，会稽王世子元显将讨桓玄，建牙竿于扬州南门，其东者难立，良久乃正。
近沴妖也。
而元显寻为玄所擒。
三年五月，乐贤堂坏。
时帝嚚眊，无乐贤之心，故此堂是沴。
义熙九年五月，国子圣堂坏。

translation:
So it became popular in the world, and it was also a demon.
Not long after, Emperor Xiaowu died, and the world was in turmoil. People were killed regardless of the consequences, and most of them had no heads.
At the time of burial, people would carve wood and wax or tie wildgrass to make a head, which is a sign of a false head.
Huan Xuan usurped the throne and established himself. A red curtain was installed on the hall, and the face was carved with gold. At the four corners, there were golden dragons holding five-color feather tassels in their mouths.
The ministers said to each other: It looks like a funeral car.
Soon Huan Xuan was destroyed, and he was convinced of the demon.
In the last years of Zhifa, the hats were small and the clothes were wide. The customs and educations imitated each other and became a custom among the common people.
Knowledgeable people say: The top is small and the bottom is large, which is a symbol of surrender and substitution.
Liu Song soon replaced the last emperor.
In the second year of Emperor Jingchu of Wei Ming Dynasty, the female harlequin in Tingwei's mansion turned into a male harlequin, neither singing nor fighting.
Wang Yi said: After the war was over, the common people began to talk about recommending talented people. This is a symbol of it.
However, the three emperors of Zhiqiao all lived their lives as ministers. It was God's will not to complain or fight.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, a chicken in Chen State gave birth to a male male without wings. When he grew up, he fell into a pit and died.
Wang Yin believes that: Xiong is a symbol of inheritance for descendants.
The pit is a symbol of mother.
Now a chicken is born without wings and falls into a pit and dies. Is this a sign that the son has no wings and has been framed by his mother?
Later, after buying it, he was framed and killed by Prince Minhuai, which was a sign.
During the Tai'an period, Zhou Guan's mother fled into the water canal in the eaves. It took her six or seven days to come down. She flapped her wings, cried and fought, but only her feathers remained unchanged.
After that, there was the Chen Min incident.
Although Chen Min controlled the Jiangnan area, he finally had no laws of etiquette and music, which was probably a symbol of him.
Eventually it was eliminated by Zhou Quan.
The disaster that happened to Zhou Guan's family was God's will.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If a hen crows like a rooster, the master will be dishonored.
During the Taixing period of Emperor Yuan, Wang Dun was guarding Wuchang, and a hen turned into a male.
Tian Jie said this: the female becomes male, and the subordinates invade the monarch.
After that, Wang Dun attacked Kyoto twice.
In April of the thirteenth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, a hen from the Minsong family in Gaoping, Guangling, was born without a right wing, while a chicken from Liu Xiangzhi's family in Pengcheng had three legs.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If the monarch listens to the woman's words, monsters will appear in him.
At this time, the king and his ministers all listened to the old nun woman's words, and the favor and reward were particularly generous, so strange signs appeared.
In August of the first year of Emperor Long'an of Emperor An, the green hen of Sima Daozi's family turned into a red rooster, which neither crow nor fight.
It is a symbol that General Huanxuan usurped power but was unable to achieve success.
In the fourth year, a slug in Jingzhou grew horns, which soon fell off.
At that time, Huanxuan began to dominate the Xixia region. He was arrogant, arrogant and disrespectful, which led to disaster.
Tian Jie said this, the horn, the symbol of the weapon, soon fell off, it was a temporary evil that could not last forever.
Later it all came true.
In the second year of Yuanxing, a hen in Hengyang turned into a rooster. After eighty days, the comb shrank.
Tian Jie said this: Hengyang is a state of Huanxuan Chu State.
When Huan Xuan usurped the throne, he was defeated in eighty days. This was his fulfillment.
In the eighth month of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, a strong wind broke the big tree in the temple, and green air came out. This was Qingxiang.
Divination said: Secha should have an emperor.
The next year, five children were born.
When he was dispatched, Wutong's grandfather, King Chonghuang, was entrusted with the title of Tombmaster, and his title was changed from Bao Bao to King Zhexiachen.
Sesheng thinks it is a symbol of ZTE.
The Jin Dynasty was in chaos, and no descendants of Emperor Wu were left behind. This was a sign that the tree in the temple was broken, and it was also a punishment from the continuous strong wind.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, there were flies called "Han Shishi" in the Nanshan Mountains of Luoyang.
A knowledgeable person said: There will be dead corpses in the Han family. The word corpse means all death.
After that, Han Mi was executed and the Han family was destroyed. This was Qing Xiang.
In the first month of the seventh year of Emperor Huangchu's reign, Emperor Wen of Wei visited Xuchang.
The south gate of Xuchang City collapsed on its own for no reason. Emperor Wen was disgusted by this incident, so he did not enter the city and returned to Luoyang.
This is where metal overcomes wood and wood vibrates. In May, Emperor Wen died.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: The top and bottom are rebellious, and the evil is the destruction of the city gate. In June of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Mi Lian of Wu County destroyed it without any reason.
Tian Jie said this: Millennium is a house that is bought and sold, and it is destroyed without any reason. This is because the grain is too expensive, so there is no buying or selling.
There was a great famine that year, and more than a thousand people died of starvation.
In the first year of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, Zhou Xun himself joined Wang Dun and built his house. The five bays and six beams he built suddenly jumped off and fell to the ground, while the remaining purlins were still intertwined on the pillar heads.
This is Jinkemu.
In May of the following year, Qian Feng conspired to rebel and destroyed Zhou Xun's family. Soon the Hushu area was in ruins.
On Bingzi of the first month of the first year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, Prince Yuanxian of Kuaiji was preparing to attack Huanxuan and erected a tooth flag pole at the south gate of Yangzhou. The flagpole on the east side was difficult to stand and took a long time to stand upright.
Almost as strange as Kemu.
Yuan Xian was soon captured by Huan Xuan.
In May of the third year, Lexian Hall was destroyed.
At that time, Emperor An was tyrannical and ignorant, and had no love for talented people, so the hall was destroyed.
In May of the ninth year of Yixi, the Guozi Temple was destroyed.

summary:
The "Jing" says people have five things: appearance, speech, seeing, hearing, and thinking. Respect leads to solemnity, obedience to righteousness, understanding to philosophy, intelligence to strategy, and wisdom to sage. Good omens include rain, sunny, warm, cold, and wind. Bad omens include continuous rain, sunny, warm, cold, and strong wind. The "Biography" says that disrespect in appearance leads to madness, punished by continuous rain. Strange costumes, turtles, diseases, and blue omens may appear. During Emperor Xiaowu's reign, Xiahou Shichang taught the "Five Elements," similar to Liu Xiang's teachings. Disrespect leads to madness, and if the emperor is lazy and arrogant, yin qi prevails, causing continuous rain. Strange costumes appear when customs are crazy. Water moves, so turtles appear. In "Yi," "Xun" is a chicken, and if authority is lost, chicken trouble occurs. Strong ministers attack the monarch, causing diseases where lower limbs grow on the upper body. Blue omens appear due to damaged appearance. During the Yuankang period, noble sons behaved disrespectfully, leading to Hu Di's invasion. Jia Mi was rude to the prince, leading to disaster. Sima Gang was arrogant and was executed. Sima Daozi opened a shop, a sign of disrespect, and was deposed. In the seventh year of Yixi, Liu Yi was disrespectful and was executed. Continuous rain occurred in the first year of Taihe, tied to Emperor Ming's behavior. In the fourth year of Taihe, heavy rain caused disasters. In the second year of Taiping, heavy rain and snow occurred, tied to Sun Liang's deposition. In the sixth year of Hutai, heavy rain caused floods. In the fifth year of Taikang, heavy rain damaged crops. In the first year of Yongning, continuous rain occurred. In the third year of Taixing, continuous rain occurred due to Wang Dun. In the first year of Yongchang, continuous rain occurred. In the fourth year of Xianhe, continuous rain occurred. In the first year of Xiankang, heavy rain occurred. Strange costumes appeared, such as Emperor Wei Ming wearing an embroidered hat, which was a monster. In the first year of Jingchu, bronze figures were made, a sign of a perishing country. He Yan wore women's clothes, a monster. Women in Wudi modified their appearance, leading to aggressive customs. After Sun Xiu, clothes were long at the top and short at the bottom, a sign of extravagance. In the early years of Emperor Wu, clothes were tight at the waist, a sign of deception. In the last years of Yongjia, clothes changed, and Hu customs were adopted. In the Taikang period, felt was used, a sign of barbarian invasion. Women's clogs became square, a sign of Empress Jia's power. The dance "Jin Shining" was a sign of complacency. Women wore weapon-shaped ornaments, a sign of women's evil. Hair was tied with silk ribbons, a sign of the prince's harm. Black sticks were used as crutches, a sign of support. Broken straw sandals gathered, a sign of chaos. Wei made Bai Qia, which changed in Yongjia. Scholar-bureaucrats wore single clothes, a sign of mourning. Soldiers used purple pouches, a sign of minister invasion. Feather fans were modified, a sign of Wang Dun's control. Clothes had short tops, a sign of rebellion. Haixi Gong forgot the leopard's tail, a sign of deposition. People stopped wearing turbans, a sign of danger. Clogs changed, a sign of conspiracy. Women wore false buns, a sign of chaos. Huan Xuan's red curtain looked like a funeral car. Hats became small and clothes wide, a sign of replacement. In the second year of Jingchu, a female harlequin turned male, a sign of war. In the sixth year of Yuankang, a chicken without wings died, a sign of the prince's harm. In the Tai'an period, a chicken fled, a sign of Chen Min's rebellion. In the Taixing period, a hen turned male, a sign of Wang Dun's invasion. In the thirteenth year of Taiyuan, a chicken without a wing appeared, a sign of listening to women's words. In the first year of Long'an, a hen turned red, a sign of Huanxuan's usurpation. In the fourth year, a slug grew horns, a sign of Huanxuan's arrogance. In the second year of Yuanxing, a hen turned into a rooster, a sign of Huanxuan's defeat. In the first year of Xianning, a strong wind broke a tree, a sign of an emperor. In the Yuankang period, flies called "Han Shishi" appeared, a sign of the Han family's destruction. In the seventh year of Huangchu, the south gate of Xuchang collapsed, a sign of Emperor Wen's death. In the second year of Taixing, a house collapsed, a sign of famine. In the first year of Taining, beams fell, a sign of Zhou Xun's destruction. In the first year of Yuanxing, a flagpole was difficult to stand, a sign of Yuan Xian's capture. In the third year, Lexian Hall was destroyed, a sign of Emperor An's tyranny. In the ninth year of Yixi, the Guozi Temple was destroyed, a sign of the emperor's fortune ending.

================================================================================

