Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝怀皇帝讳炽，字丰度，武帝第二十五子也。
太熙元年，封豫章郡王。
属孝惠之时，宗室构祸，帝冲素自守，门绝宾游，不交世事，专玩史籍，有誉于时。
初拜散骑常侍，及赵王伦篡，见收。
伦败，为射声校尉。
累迁车骑大将军、都督青州诸军事。未之镇。
永兴元年，改授镇北大将军、都督鄴城守诸军事。
十二月丁亥，立为皇太弟。
帝以清河王覃本太子也，惧不敢当。
典书令庐陵修肃曰： 二相经营王室，志宁社稷，储贰之重，宜归时望，亲贤之举，非大王而谁？
清河幼弱，未允众心，是以既升东宫，复赞籓国。
今乘舆播越，二宫久旷，常恐氐羌饮马于泾川，蚁众控弦于霸水。
宜及吉辰，时登储副，上翼大驾，早宁东京，下允黔首喁喁之望。 帝曰： 卿，吾之宋昌也。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaohuai, whose name was Chi and whose courtesy name was Fengdu, was the twenty-fifth son of Emperor Wu.
In the first year of Taixi's reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Yuzhang County.
When Emperor Hui was on the throne, members of the royal family were in chaos. The emperor was peaceful and self-restrained, thanked guests behind closed doors, paid no attention to worldly affairs, and concentrated on studying historical classics. He was very prestigious at that time.
At first he served as a regular servant of Sanqi, but when King Zhao Sima Jian usurped the throne, he was imprisoned.
After Sima Lun failed, he served as the captain of Shesheng.
Gradually he was promoted to general of chariots and cavalry, and commander of all military forces in Qingzhou, but he did not go to the town.
In the first year of Chenglei's reign, he was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yecheng garrison.
In December Dinghai, he was established as the emperor's younger brother.
The emperor believed that Sima Tan, the king of Qinghe, was the prince, so he was afraid and did not dare to take the responsibility.
Kaisheng, a doctor in Lu, said: The two prime ministers manage royal affairs with the aim of stabilizing the country. The crown prince has an important position and should be carried out by someone who is favored by the public. To recommend worthy people, who else but the king can do it?
King Qinghe was young and weak, and was not popular with everyone, so he entered the East Palace and returned to the feudal kingdom as King Qinghe.
Nowadays, the emperor is homeless, and the second palace has been empty for a long time. He is often worried that the Di and Qiang people will attack him, and the enemies like ants will come to the shore of the river to show off their power.
He should take advantage of the auspicious time and ascend to the position of crown prince in time, so that he can assist the emperor and pacify the house of Sesai as soon as possible, and satisfy the people's sincere and urgent wishes. Emperor Huai said: You are really my Song Ken.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃从之。
光熙元年十一月庚午，孝惠帝崩。
羊皇后以于太弟为嫂，不得为太后，催清河王覃入，已至尚书阁，侍中华混等急召太弟。
癸酉，即皇帝位，大赦，尊皇后羊氏为惠皇后，居弘训宫，追尊所生太妃王氏为皇太后，立妃梁氏为皇后。
十二月壬午朔，日有蚀之。
己亥，封彭城王植子融为乐城县王。
南阳王模杀河间王颙于雍谷。
辛丑，以中书监温羡为司徒，尚书左仆射王衍为司空。
己酉，葬孝惠皇帝于太阳陵。
李雄别帅李离寇梁州。
永嘉元年春正月癸丑朔，大赦，改元，除三族刑。
以太傅、东海王越辅政，杀御史中丞诸葛玫。
二月辛巳，东莱人王弥起兵反，寇青、徐二州，长广太守宋罴、东牟太守庞伉并遇害。
三月己未朔，平东将军周馥斩送陈敏首。
丁卯，改葬武悼杨皇后。
庚午，立豫章王诠为皇太子。
辛未，大赦。
庚辰，东海王越出镇许昌。
以征东将军、高密王简为征南大将军、都督荆州诸军事，镇襄阳；改封安北将军、东燕王腾为新蔡王、都督司冀二州诸军事，镇鄴；以征南将军、南阳王模为征西大将军、都督秦雍梁益四州诸军事，镇长安。
并州诸郡为刘元海所陷，刺史刘琨独保晋阳。
夏五月，马牧帅汲桑聚众反，败魏郡太守冯嵩，遂陷鄴城，害新蔡王腾。
烧鄴宫，火旬日不灭。
又杀前幽州刺史石鲜于乐陵，入掠平原，山阳公刘秋遇害。
translation: 
So he followed Xiu Su's advice.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Guangya, Chu Zhao passed away.
Queen Jian thought that she was just a sister-in-law to the crown prince and could not be the queen mother, so she urged Qinghe King Sima Tan to enter the palace. She had already arrived at Shangshuhe, and Shi Zhonghuahun and others hurriedly summoned the crown prince.
Guiyou, that is, the emperor, granted amnesty to the world, honored Queen Yang as Queen Hui, and allowed her to live in Hongxun Palace. After honoring her biological mother, Princess Wang, as the Empress Dowager, she established the concubine as the Queen.
On the first day of Renwu, there will be a solar eclipse.
In Jihai, Sima Rong, the son of Dan Zhouchui, the king of Yue, was granted the title of King of Lecheng County.
Sima Mo, who pressed his eyes directly, killed Sima Yi, the king of Hejian, in Yongzhao.
Xin Chou appointed Zhongshu Jian as Situ, and Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Qu as Sikong.
Jiyou buried Emperor Xiaohui in Zhukenqiu.
Kui Bao's general Kui Zheng invaded Luan Ye.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongjia, on the first day of the first lunar month, Guichou Shuo, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, the reign name was changed, and the punishment of the three clans of Lian was abolished.
He asked Taifu and Shuhai King Sima Yue to assist the government and killed Zhuge Mei, the censor Zhongcheng.
In the second month of Xinsi, Wang Mi from Donglai rebelled and invaded Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Song Ba, the governor of Changguang, and Pang and his wife, the governor of Dongmou, were both killed.
On the first day of the third month, Pingshu General Zhou Fu beheaded Chen Min and sent him to him.
Ding Mao reburied Empress Wu and Yang.
In Gengwu, Sima Quan, the king of Yuzhang, was made the crown prince.
Xin Wei, grant amnesty to the world.
In Gengchen, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, came out of the capital to guard Xuchang.
Sima Jian, the general of Zhengdong and King of Gaomi, was appointed as the general of Zhengnan, the governor of Jingzhou's military forces, and guarded Xiangyang; the general of Anbei and Sima Teng, king of Shuyan, was appointed as the new king of Cai, the governor of Jizhou military, and guarded Ye; the general of Zhengnan and Nanyang King Sima Mo was appointed as the general of Zhengxi, the governor of Qin Yongliang, and the military of Yizhou, guarding Chang'an.
All the counties in Bingzhou were captured by Liu Yuanhai, and only Jinyang was defended by the governor Liu Kun.
In the fifth month of summer, Marshal Ma Mu Ji Sang gathered a crowd to rebel and defeated Feng Song, the prefect of Wei County. He then captured Yecheng and killed Sima Teng, the king of Xincai.
The Ye Palace was burned down and the fire continued for ten days.
He also killed Shi Shi, the former governor of Youzhou, in Leling, and went into the plains to plunder. Liu Qiu, the Duke of Shanyang, was killed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
洛阳步广里地陷，有二鹅出，色苍者冲天，白者不能飞。
建宁郡夷攻陷宁州，死者三千余人。
秋七月己酉朔，东海王越进屯官渡，以讨汲桑。
己未，以平东将军、琅邪王睿为安东将军、都督扬州江南诸军事、假节，镇建鄴。
八月己卯朔，抚军将军苟晞败汲桑于鄴。
甲辰，曲赦幽、并、司、冀、兗、豫等六州。
分荆州、江州八郡为湘州。
九月戊申，苟晞又破汲桑，陷其九垒。
辛亥，有大星如日，小者如斗，自西方流于东北，天尽赤，俄有声如雷。
始修千金堨于许昌以通运。
冬十一月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
甲寅，以尚书右仆射和郁为征北将军，镇鄴。
十二月戊寅，并州人田兰、薄盛等斩汲桑于乐陵。
甲午，以前太傅刘寔为太尉。
庚子，以光禄大夫、延陵公高光为尚书令。
东海王越矫诏囚清河王覃于金墉城。
translation: 
The ground in Buguangli, Luoyang, sank, and two geese emerged. The pale one soared into the sky, while the white one could not fly.
The Yi people from Jianning County captured Ningzhou City and killed more than 3,000 people.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, stationed in Guandu, preparing to attack Jisang.
Before long, he appointed General Pingdong and King Sima Rui of Langxie as General Andong and Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Yangzhou and Jiangnan. He was temporarily in charge of the festival and guarded Jianye.
On the first day of the eighth lunar month, Gou Xi, the general of the Fu army, defeated Ji Sang in Ye.
In Jiachen, six states including You, Bing, Si, Ji, Yan, and Liao were granted amnesty.
The eight counties in Jingzhou and Jiangzhou were divided into Xiangzhou.
In the ninth month of Wushen, Gou Xi defeated Ji Sang again and captured nine of his fortresses.
In Xinhai, there were big stars like the sun and small stars like buckets, flowing from the west to the northeast. The sky turned red, and soon there was a sound like thunder.
Construction of Wangjin Fort began in Jiangdan to facilitate transportation.
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of Wushen lunar month in the eleventh month of winter.
In Jiayin, Shangshu Youpushe and Yu were appointed as generals in the northern expedition to guard Ye.
On the 12th day of the twelfth month of the lunar month, Tian Lan and Bo Sheng from the state were sent to kill Ji Sang in Leling.
In the Jiawu period, Liu Shi, the former Taifu, was appointed as Taiwei.
Gengzi appointed Dr. Guanglu and Duke Yanling Zhili as ministers.
Moyue of Sejulong falsely told Shaoshu that Sima Tan, king of Zhahe, was imprisoned in Jinyong City.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
癸卯，越自为丞相。
以抚军将军苟晞为征东大将军。
二年春正月丙子朔，日有蚀之，日有蚀之。
三月，东海王越镇鄄城。刘元海侵汲郡，略有顿丘、河内之地。
王弥寇青、徐、兗、豫四州。
夏四月丁亥，入许昌，诸郡守将皆奔走。
五月甲子，弥遂寇洛阳，司徒王衍帅众御之，弥退走。
秋七月甲辰，刘元海寇平阳，太守宋抽奔京师，河东太守路述力战，死之。
十一月乙巳，尚书令高光卒；丁卯，以太子少傅荀籓为尚书令。
己酉，石勒寇鄴，魏郡太守王粹战败，死之。
十二月辛未朔，大赦。
translation: 
Guimao, Si District Yue proclaimed himself prime minister.
General Gou Xi of the Fu Army was appointed as the General of the Conquest of the East.
There was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year. Ding Wei, grant amnesty to the world.
In the second month of Xinmao, Sima Qin, king of Qinghe, was killed by Sima Yue, king of Donghai. Gengzi, Huqin invaded Xiaodan, and Anbei general Tu attacked and defeated him.
In March, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, guarded Juancheng. Sleep invades the feet and occupies the area of ​​pulling and chattering. The title infringes on the four states of Yi, Tu, Yan and Tu.
In the fourth month of summer, Dinghai entered Xu Dan, and all the generals stationed in the counties fled.
In the fifth month of Jiazi, Wang Jiang then invaded Haoshi. Situ Gongqian led his troops to resist, and Wang You withdrew his troops.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Liu Wuji invaded Naodang, and the prefect Secuo fled to the capital. The prefect Mi Dengshu fought hard and died in the battle.
In the eighth month of Dinghai, Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, moved from Jianqiu to Yimeng. In September, Huqin invaded Longzhu, and Renthi, the general who conquered the north, fled from Ye to Qiquang. In the winter of October, during the Jiaxu period, Xingwutu assumed the title of emperor in the guard area and was still called Xuan.
In November Yisi, Shangshu Ling Gao Guang died; in Jiyou, Shi Le invaded Ye; Wang Zheng, the prefect of Yun and Deng, was defeated and died in the battle.
Ding Mao appointed Prince Shaofu Jipeng as Shangshu Ling. On the first day of the Xinwei lunar month in December, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
立长沙王乂子硕为长沙王，鲜为临淮王。
三年春正月甲午，彭城王释薨。
三月戊申，征南大将军、高密王简薨。
以尚书左仆射山简为征南将军、都尉荆湘交广等四州诸军事，司隶校尉刘暾为尚书左仆射。
丁巳，东海王越归京师。
乙丑，勒兵人宫，于帝侧收近臣中书令缪播、帝舅王延等十余人，并害之。
丙寅，曲赦河南郡。
丁卯，太尉刘寔请老，以司徒王衍为太尉。
东海王越领司徒。
刘元海冠黎阳，遣车骑将军王堪击之，王师败绩于延津，死者三万余人。
大旱，江、汉、河、洛皆竭，可涉。
夏四月，左积弩将军硃诞叛奔于刘元海。
石勒攻陷冀州郡县百余壁。
秋七月戊辰，当阳地裂三所，各广三丈，长三百余步。
translation: 
Sima Shuo, the son of Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was made Kenlanwa, and Sima Shi was the king of Linhuai.
In the spring of the first month of the third year of Jiawu, Sima Shi, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the third month of Wushen, Sima Jian, the general who conquered the south and the king of Gaomi, passed away.
He appointed Shangshu Zuopushe Shan Jian as the general of the southern expedition and the governor of the military in the four states of Jing, Xiang, Kui, and Lu. He also appointed Liu Tun, the captain of Sili school, as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Ding Si, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, returned to the capital.
Yi Chou. He led troops into the palace, captured close ministers Zhongshu Ling Longzhong, the emperor's uncle Gong Yan and more than ten people from the emperor's side, and killed them all.
Bingyin, amnesty and return to Yixing.
On Ding Mao, Taiwei Liu Shi requested to retire and appointed Situ Wang Yan as Taiwei.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, also served as Situ.
Liu Yuanhai invaded Liyang and sent chariot general Wang Kan to attack him. Wang Kan's troops were defeated in Yanjin, and more than 30,000 people died.
There is a severe drought, and the Yangtze River, Han River, Yellow River, and Luoshui River have little water and can be waded across.
In April of summer, Zuo Jinu General Zhu Dan defected to Liu Yuanhai.
Shi Le captured more than a hundred fortresses in various counties in Jizhou.
On the Wuchen day of the seventh month in autumn, the ground in Dangyang area cracked in three places, each three feet wide and more than three hundred steps long.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
辛未，平阳人刘芒荡自称汉后，诳诱羌戎，僭帝号于马兰山。
支胡五斗叟、郝索聚众数千为乱，屯新丰，与芒荡合党。
刘元海遣子聪及王弥寇上党，围壶关。
并州刺史刘琨使兵救之，为聪所败。
淮南内史王旷、将军施融、曹超及聪战，又败，超、融死之。
上党太守庞淳以郡降贼。
九月丙寅，刘聪围浚仪，遣平北将军曹武讨之。
丁丑，王师败绩。
东海王越人保京城。
聪至西明门，越御之，战于宣阳门外，大破之。
石勒寇常山，安北将军王浚使鲜卑骑救之，大破勒于飞龙山。
征西大将军、南阳王模使其将淳于定破刘芒荡、五斗叟，并斩之。
使车骑将军王堪、平北将军曹武讨刘聪，王师败绩，堪奔还京师。
李雄别帅罗羡以梓潼归顺。
刘聪攻洛阳西明门，不克。
宜都夷道山崩，荆、湘二州地震。
冬十一月，石勒陷长乐，安北将军王斌遇害。因屠黎阳。
乞活帅李恽、薄盛等帅众救京师，聪退走。
恽等又破王弥于新汲。
十二月乙亥，夜有白气如带，自地升天，南北各二丈。
四年春正月乙丑朔，大赦。
二月，石勒袭鄄城，兗州刺史袁孚战败，为其部下所害。
勒又袭白马，车骑将军王堪死之。
李雄将文硕杀雄大将军李国，以巴西归顺。
戊午，吴兴人钱璯反，自称平西将军。
三月，丞相仓曹属周帅乡人讨璯，斩之。
translation: 
In Xinwei, Liu Mangdang, a native of Pingyang, claimed to be a descendant of the Han royal family, deceived the Qiang Rong tribe, and claimed the title of emperor in Malan Mountain.
Wudaosou and Hao Suo, who supported the Hu, gathered thousands of people to rebel, stationed in Xinfeng, and formed a party with Mangdang.
Liu Yuanhai sent his sons Liu Cong and Wang Mi to invade Shangdang and besieged Huguan.
Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou, sent troops to rescue, but was defeated by Liu Cong.
Huainan internal history Wang Kuang, general Shi Rong, Cao Chao and Liu Cong fought and were defeated again. Cao Chao and Shi Rong died in the battle.
Pang Chun, the governor of Shangdang, surrendered the county and the city to rebel against the traitors.
In September Bingyin, Liu Cong besieged Junyi and sent Pingbei General Cao Wu to attack Liu Cong.
Ding Chou, the army was defeated.
Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, came to defend the capital.
Liu Cong attacked Ximing Gate, but Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, resisted and fought outside Xuanyang Gate, defeating Liu Cong.
Shi Le invaded Changshan. Anbei general Wang Jun asked the Xianbei cavalry to rescue him and defeated Shi Le at Feilong Mountain.
Sima Mo, the general who conquered the west and king of Nanyang, sent his general Chun Yuding to defeat Liu Mangdang and Wu Dousou and kill them all.
He sent chariot general Wang Kan and Pingbei general Cao Wu to attack Liu Cong. The officers and soldiers were defeated, and Wang Kan fled back to the capital.
Li Xiong's deputy commander Luo Xian came to submit to Zitong.
Liu Cong attacked Ximing Gate in Luoyang but failed.
A landslide occurred in Yidao, Yidu, and there were earthquakes in Jing and Xiang prefectures.
In November of winter, Shile captured Changle, Anbei general Wang Bin was killed, and massacred in Liyang.
Refugee leaders Li Pang, Bo Sheng and others led everyone to rescue the capital, but Liu Cong retreated and fled.
Li Pang and others defeated Wang Mi again in Xinji.
In Yihai, December, at night there is white air like a belt, rising from the ground to the sky, two feet in length in the north and south.
On the first day of the first month of the fourth year of spring, Yi Chou, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, Shi Le attacked Juancheng. Yuan Fu, the governor of Yanzhou, was defeated and killed by his men.
Shi Le attacked Baima again, and Wang Kan, the chariot and cavalry general, was killed in battle.
Li Xiong's general Wenshuo killed Li Xiong's general Li Guo and submitted to Brazil.
In Wuwu, Qian Fen, a native of Wuxing, rebelled and called himself General Pingxi.
In March, Prime Minister Cang Cao, who was subordinate to Zhou Quan, led his countrymen to attack Qian Wei and killed him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
夏四月，大水。
将军祁弘破刘元海将刘灵曜于广宗。李雄陷梓潼。
兗州地震。
五月，石勒寇汲郡，执太守胡宠，遂南济河，荥阳太守裴纯奔建鄴。
大风折木。
地震。
幽、并、司、冀、秦、雍等六州大蝗，食草木，牛马毛皆尽。
六月，刘元海死，其子和嗣伪位，和弟聪杀和而自立。
秋七月，刘聪从弟曜及其将石勒围怀，诏征虏将军宋抽救之，为曜所败，抽死之。
九月，河内人乐仰执太守裴整叛，降于石勒。
徐州监军王隆自下邳弃军奔于周馥。
雍州人王如举兵反于宛，杀害令长，自号大将军、司雍二州牧，大掠汉沔，新平人庞寔、冯翊人严嶷、京兆人侯脱等各起兵应之。
translation: 
In April of summer, there are floods.
General Qi Hong defeated Liu Yuanhai's general Liu Lingyao at Guangzong. Li Xiong captured Zitong.
An earthquake occurred in Yanzhou.
In May, Shi Le invaded Ji County and captured Hu Chong, the prefect. He then crossed the Yellow River southward, while Pei Chun, the prefect of Rongyang, fled to Jianye.
Strong winds broke trees.
earthquake.
Locusts infested the six prefectures of You, Bing, Si, Ji, Qin, and Yong, eating up all the grass, trees, cattle, and horses.
In June, Liu Yuanhai died and his son Liu He took over the throne of the pseudo-emperor. Liu He's younger brother Liu Cong murdered Liu He and proclaimed himself the pseudo-emperor.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Cong's younger brother Liu Yao and his general Shi Le besieged Huai. Xia Shao asked the conquest general Song Tuo to rescue them, but they were defeated by Liu Yao and Song Tuo died in the battle.
In September, the Hanoi people rebelled against the capture of the prefect Pei Zheng and surrendered to Shi Le.
Wang Long, the supervisor of the Xuzhou army, abandoned his army from Xiapi and fled to Zhou Fu.
Wang Ru, a native of Yongzhou, first raised troops to rebel in Wan, killed the local governor, called himself a general and the pastor of Siyong Erzhou, and looted the Hanmio area. Ponce of Xinping, Yan Yi of Feng Yi, and Hou Tuo of Jingzhao each raised their own troops to respond to him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
征南将军山简、荆州刺史王澄、南中郎将杜蕤并遣兵援京师，及如战于宛，诸军皆大败；王澄独以众进至沶口，众溃而归。
冬十月辛卯，昼昏，至于庚子。
大星西南坠，有声。
壬寅，石勒围仓垣，陈留内史王赞击败之，勒走河北。
壬子，以骠骑将军王浚为司空，平北将军刘琨为平北大将军。
京师饥。
东海王越羽檄征天下兵，帝谓使者曰： 为我语诸征镇，若今日，尚可救，后则无逮矣。
时莫有至者。
石勒陷襄城，太守崔旷遇害，遂至宛。
王浚遣鲜卑文鸯帅骑救之，勒退。
浚又遣别将王申始讨勒于汶石津，大破之。
十一月甲戌，东海王越帅众出许昌，以行台自随。
宫省无复守卫，荒馑日甚，殿内死人交横，府寺营署并掘堑自守，盗贼公行，桴鼓之音不绝。
translation: 
Shan Jian, the general who conquered the south, Wang Cheng, the governor of Jingzhou, and Du Rui, the general of Nanzhonglang, all sent troops to rescue the capital. They fought with Wang Ru in Wan and all their armies were defeated. Only Wang Cheng led his troops to Luokou and returned because his troops were defeated.
In the tenth month of winter, the days are dark and dark, lasting for ten days until Gengzi Day.
There is a big star falling to the southwest and there is a sound.
In Renyin, Shi Le besieged Cangyuan. Wang Zan, Chen Liu's internal history officer, defeated him and Shi Le fled to the north of the Yellow River.
Renzi appointed Hussar General Wang Jun as Sikong and Pingbei General Liu Kun as Pingbei General.
Famine in the capital.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, issued a letter with feathers to urgently recruit the troops from all over the world. The emperor said to the envoys: Tell the generals for me that if you send troops immediately, you can still save us. If you delay, it will be too late.
No general came to rescue him at that time.
Shi Le captured Xiangcheng and the prefect Cui Kuang was killed. Then he attacked Wan.
Wang Jun sent Xianbei Wenyang to lead the cavalry to rescue Nahuo, but Shi Le retreated.
Wang Jun also sent his general Wang Shenshi to attack Shile in Wenshijin and defeated Shile.
In November of Jiaxu, King Sima Yue of Shuhai led his troops to leave Xuchang and asked Xingtai to follow him.
The palace offices no longer have guards, famine and famine are becoming more and more serious day by day, the palaces and palaces are littered with dead people, the government offices, temples, barracks, etc. all dig trenches to defend themselves, thieves and robbers are openly operating, and the sound of alarm drums is endless.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
越军次项，自领豫州牧，以太尉王衍为军司。
丁丑，流氐隗伯等袭宜都，太守嵇晞奔建鄴。
王申始攻刘曜、王弥于瓶垒，破之。
镇东将军周馥表迎大驾迁都寿阳，越使裴硕讨馥，为馥所败，走保东城，请救于琅邪王睿。
襄阳大疫，死者三千余人。
加凉州刺史张轨安西将军。
十二月，征东大将军苟晞攻王弥别帅曹嶷，破之。
乙酉，平阳人李洪帅流人入定陵作乱。
五年春正月，帝密诏苟晞讨东海王越。
壬申，晞为曹嶷所破。
乙未，越遣从事中郎将杨瑁、徐州刺史裴盾共击晞。
癸酉，石勒入江夏，太守杨珉奔于武昌。
乙亥，李雄攻陷涪城，梓潼太守谯登遇害。
湘州流人杜弢据长沙反。
戊寅，安东将军、琅邪王睿使将军甘卓攻镇东将军周馥于寿春，馥众溃。
庚辰，太保、平原王干薨。
translation: 
Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, stationed his troops in Xiang. He concurrently served as the shepherd of Yuzhou, and asked Wang Yan, the Taiwei, to serve as military commander.
Ding Chou, the wandering Di people Kai Bo and others attacked Yidu, and the prefect Ji Xi fled to Jianye.
Wang Shenshi attacked Liu Yao and Wang Mi at the bottle base and defeated them.
General Zhenshu Zhou Fu came to welcome the emperor to move the capital to Shouyang. King Sima Yue of Donghai sent Pei Shuo to attack Zhou Fu, but was defeated by Zhou Fu. He fled to Dongcheng to defend and asked Sima Rui, King of Langxie, for help.
A great plague broke out in Xiangyang, and more than 3,000 people died.
Zhang Gui, the governor of Jialiang Prefecture, was appointed General Anxi.
In December, General Gou Xi attacked Wang Mi's deputy general Cao Yi and defeated him.
In Yiyou, Li Hong from Pingyang led the refugees into Dingling to cause trouble.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, the emperor secretly issued an edict to Gou Xi to attack Shuhai King Sima Yue.
Renshen and Gou Xi were defeated by Cao Yi.
At the end of the day, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, sent Yang Hao, a general of Zhonglang, and Pei Dun, the governor of Xuzhou, to jointly attack Gou Xi.
In Guiyou, Shi Le invaded Jiangxia, and the prefect Yang Min fled to Wuchang.
In Yihai, Li Xiong captured Fucheng and Qiao Deng, the prefect of Zitong, was killed.
Du Sou, a refugee from Xiangzhou, occupied Changsha and rebelled.
Wuyin, General Anshu and King Sima Rui of Langxie asked General Ganzhuo to attack General Zhou Fu in Shouchun, and Zhou Fu's men collapsed.
In Gengchen, Sima Qian, the Taibao and the original king, passed away.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
二月，石勒寇汝南，汝南王祐奔建鄴。
三月戊午，诏下东海王越罪状，告方镇讨之。
以证东大将军苟晞为大将军。
丙子，东海王越薨。
四月戊子，石勒追东海王越丧，及于东郡，将军钱端战死，军溃，太尉王衍、吏部尚书刘望、廷尉诸葛铨、尚书郑豫、武陵王澹等皆遇害，王公已下死者十余万人。
东海世子毗及宗室四十八王寻又没于石勒。
贼王桑、冷道陷徐州，刺史裴盾遇害，桑遂济淮，至于历阳。
五月，益州流人汝班、梁州流人蹇抚作乱于湘州，虏刺史苟眺，南破零、桂诸郡，东掠武昌，安城太守郭察、劭陵太守郑融、衡阳内史滕育并遇害。
进司空王浚为大司马，征西大将军、南阳王模为太尉，太子太傅傅祗为司徒，尚书令荀籓为司空，安东将军、琅邪王睿为镇东大将军。
东海王越之出也，使河南尹潘滔居守。
大将军苟晞表迁都仓垣，帝将从之，诸大臣畏滔，不敢奉诏，且宫中及黄门恋资财，不欲出。
translation: 
In February, Shi Le invaded Runan, and Sima Ku, the king of Runan, fled to Jianye.
On Wuwu in the third month, Xia Shao announced the crimes of Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, and asked the generals from various places to attack him.
Appointed Gou Xi, the general who conquered Cambodia, as the general.
In Bingzi, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, passed away.
On Wuzi in April, Shi Le chased the coffin of Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, and caught up with him in Dongjun. General Ji Duan died in battle, and the army collapsed. Taiwei Wang Yan, Shangshu Liu Wang, Tingwei Zhuge Quan, Shangshu Zheng Yu, and Wuling King Sima Dan were all killed. More than 100,000 people died from the prince level down.
Sima Pi, the eldest son of King Shuhai, and the forty-eight kings of the clan were soon killed by Shi Le.
The bandits Wang Sang and Leng Dao captured Xuzhou and the governor Pei Dun was killed. Wang Sang then crossed the Huaihe River and arrived at Liyang.
In May, Yizhou refugees Ruban and Liangzhou refugees Jianfu rebelled in Xiangzhou and captured Gou Tiao, the governor. They went south to attack the counties of Ling and Gui, and to the east they plundered Wuchang. Guo Cha, the governor of Ancheng, Zheng Rong, the governor of Shaoling, and Teng Yu, the internal historian of Hengyang, were all killed.
Wang Jun, Sikong, was promoted to Grand Sima, General Zhengxi and King Sima Mo of Nanyang were promoted to Taiwei, Prince Fu Zhi was promoted to Situ, Shangshu Ling Goufan was promoted to Sikong, General Andong and Sima Rui, King of Langxie, were promoted to General Zhendong.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, left the capital, he asked Yin Pantao of Henan to stay behind.
General Gou Xi petitioned to move the capital to Cangyuan, and the emperor was prepared to listen to his advice. The ministers were afraid of Pan Tao and did not dare to follow Shao's orders. Moreover, the palace officials and eunuchs were greedy for money and did not want to leave the capital.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
至是饥甚，人相食，百官流亡者十八九。
帝召群臣会议，将行而警卫不备。
帝抚手叹曰： 如何会无车舆！
乃使司徒傅祗出诣河阴，修舟楫，为水行之备。
朝士数人导从。
帝步出西掖门。至铜驰街，为盗所掠，不得进而还。
六月癸未，刘曜、王弥、石勒同寇洛川，王师频为贼所败，死者甚众。
庚寅，司空荀籓、光禄大夫荀组奔轘辕，太子左率温几夜开广莫门奔小平津。
丁酉、刘曜、王弥入京师。
帝开华林园门，出河阴藕池，欲幸长安，为曜等所追及。
曜等遂焚烧宫庙，逼辱妃后，吴王晏、竟陵王楙、尚书左仆射和郁、右仆射曹馥、尚书闾丘冲、袁粲、王绲、河南尹刘默等皆遇害，百官士庶死者三万余人。
帝蒙尘于平阳，刘聪以帝为会稽公。
荀籓移檄州镇，以琅邪王为盟主。
translation: 
When they were sent, they were extremely hungry, and people were eating people. Nine out of ten people in the palace were exiled.
The emperor convened the ministers to discuss and prepared to travel, but there were no guards.
The emperor rubbed his hands and sighed: "Why are there no vehicles?"
He asked Situ Fu Zhi to go out of the city to Heyin to repair the boats and prepare for the waterway.
Dozens of officials from the DPRK and China accompanied him.
The emperor walked out of Xiyemen and went to Tongchi Street. He was robbed by robbers and could not move forward and returned to the palace.
In Guiwei, Liu Yao, Wang Mi, and Shi Le invaded Luochuan. The imperial army was frequently defeated by the rebels, and many people died.
In the sixth month of Gengyin, Sikong Xunfan and Guanglu doctor Xun group fled to Yuanyuan. Prince Zuo led Wen Ji to open Guangmo gate at night and fled to Xiaopingjin.
Ding You, Liu Yao and Wang Mi entered the capital.
The emperor opened the gate of Hualin Garden and passed by Heyin Lotus Pond. He wanted to go to Chang'an, but Liu Yao and others caught up with him.
Liu Yao burned the palaces and temples, forced and insulted the concubines and queens. King Sima Yan of Wu, King Sima Suan of Jingling, Shangshu Zuopushe Heyu, Youpushe Caofu, Shangshu Luqiuchong, Yuan Can, Wang Nui, Henan Yin Liumo and others were all killed. More than 30,000 officials, officials and common people died.
The emperor was captured in Pingyang, and Liu Cong made the emperor the Duke of Kuaiji.
Xun Fan sent a message to the military towns in various states, with King Langxie as the leader of the alliance.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
豫章王端东奔苟晞，晞立为皇太子，自领尚书令，具置官属，保梁国之蒙县。
百姓饥俭，米斛万余价。
秋七月，大司马王浚承制假立太子，置百官，署征镇。
石勒寇谷阳，沛王滋战败遇害。
八月，刘聪使子粲攻陷长安，太尉、征西将军、南阳王模遇害，长安遗人四千余家奔汉中。
九月癸亥，石勒袭阳夏，至于蒙县，大将军苟晞、豫章王端并没于贼。
冬十月，勒寇豫州，诸军至江而还。
十一月，猗卢寇太原，平北将军刘琨不能制，徙五县百姓于新兴，以其地居之。
六年春正月，帝在平阳。
刘聪寇太原。
故镇南府牙门将胡亢聚众寇荆土，自号楚公。
二月壬子，日有蚀之。
癸丑，镇东大将军、琅邪王睿上尚书，檄四方以讨石勒。
translation: 
Sima Duan, the king of Yuzhang, fled east to Gou Xi, who made him the crown prince. He also served as Shangshu Ling and set up various government agencies to garrison Meng County in Liang State.
The people were hungry and the harvest was bad. The price of rice was more than ten thousand yuan per bushel.
In the seventh month of autumn, Grand Sima Wang Jun followed the emperor's will and temporarily established the crown prince, appointed hundreds of officials, and arranged various military towns.
Shi Le invaded Guyang, and King Sima Zi of Pei was defeated and killed.
In August, Liu Cong sent his son Liu Can to capture Chang'an. Taiwei, General Zhengxi, and Nanyang King Sima Mo were killed. More than 4,000 people from Chang'an fled to Hanzhong.
In the ninth month of Guihai, Shi Le attacked Yangxia and reached Meng County. General Gou Xi and King Sima Duan of Yuzhang were both killed by the rebels.
In the tenth month of winter, Shi Le invaded all counties in Yuzhou and did not return until he reached the Yangtze River.
In November, Yilu invaded Taiyuan, and Pingbei General Liu Kun could not control it. He moved the people of five counties to Xinxing and let them live there.
In the first month of the spring of the sixth year, the emperor was in Pingyang.
Liu Cong invaded Taiyuan.
Hu Kang, the general of Yamen in the former Zhennan Prefecture, gathered a crowd to invade the Jingzhou area and named himself Duke of Chu.
In the second month of Renzi, there is a solar eclipse.
In Guichou, Sima Rui, the general of Zhendong and king of Langxie, wrote to the minister, advocating issuing a proclamation to recruit soldiers and horses from all over the country to attack Shile.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
大司马王浚移檄天下，称被中诏承制，以荀籓为太尉。
汝阳王熙为石勒所害。
夏四月丙寅，征南将军山简卒。
秋七月，岁星、荧惑、太白聚于牛斗。
石勒寇冀州。
刘粲寇晋阳，平北将军刘琨遣部将郝诜帅众御粲，诜败绩，死之，太原太守高乔以晋阳降粲。
八月庚戌，刘琨奔于常山。
辛亥，阴平都尉董冲逐太守王鉴，以郡叛降于李雄。
乙亥，刘琨乞师于猗卢，表卢为代公。
九月己卯，猗卢使子利孙赴琨，不得进。
辛巳，前雍州刺史贾疋讨刘粲于三辅，走之，关中小定，乃与卫将军梁芬、京兆太守梁综共奉秦王鄴为皇太子于长安。
冬十月，猗卢自将六万骑次于盆城。
十一月甲午，刘粲遁走，刘琨收其遗众，保于阳曲。
是岁大疫。
七年春正月，刘聪大会，使帝著青衣行酒。
侍中庾珉号哭，聪恶之。
丁未，帝遇弑，崩于平阳，时年三十。
translation: 
Wang Jun, the Grand Sima, forwarded a message to the world, claiming that he had accepted the palace edict, upheld the emperor's will, and appointed Xun Fan as Taiwei.
Sima Xi, king of Ruyang, was killed by Shi Le.
In the fourth month of Xia Bingyin, General Shan Jian passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Suixing, Yinghuo, and Taibai gather between the Ox and Diu constellations.
Shi Le invaded Jizhou.
Liu Can invaded Jinyang. Pingbei general Liu Kun sent his general Hao Yue to lead an army to resist Liu Can. Hao Yue was defeated and died in battle. Gao Qiao, the prefect of Taiyuan, surrendered Jinyang to Liu Can.
In August Gengxu, Liu Kun fled to Changshan.
In Jihai, Yinping Captain Dong Chong drove away the prefect Wang Jian, led the county to rebel and surrendered to Li Xiong.
In the year of 1911, Liu Kun asked Yi Lu for reinforcements and recommended Yi Lu as the acting duke.
On Ji Mao in the ninth month, Yilu sent his son Lisun to Liu Kun, but he could not reach it.
Xin Si, the former governor of Yongzhou, Maizhen, attacked Liu Can in Sanfu and defeated him. Guanzhong became a little more stable, so he, General Liang Fen of the Wei, and Liang Zong, the prefect of Jingzhao, jointly honored the King of Qin, Sima Ye, as the crown prince in Chang'an.
In the tenth month of winter, Yilu himself led 60,000 cavalry and garrisoned Yucheng.
During the Sino-Japanese War in November, Liu Can quietly withdrew his troops and fled, while Liu Kun gathered his remaining troops and guarded Yangqu.
In the same year, a great plague prevailed.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, Liu Cong convened a banquet with ministers and asked the emperor to wear Tsing Yi and go back and forth to drink.
The servant Yu Min howled and cried, and Liu Cong hated him.
Ding Wei, the emperor was killed and died in Pingyang at the age of thirty.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
帝初诞，有嘉禾生于豫章之南昌。
先是望气者云 豫章有天子气 ，其后竟以豫章王为皇太弟。
在东宫，恂恂谦损，接引朝士，讲论书籍。
及即位，始遵旧制，临太极殿，使尚书郎读时令，又于东堂听政。
至于宴会，辄与群官论众务，考经籍。
黄门侍郎傅宣叹曰： 今日复见武帝之世矣！
秘书监荀崧又常谓人曰： 怀帝天姿清劭，少著英猷，若遭承平，足为守文佳主。
而继惠帝扰乱之后，东海专政，无幽厉之衅，而有流亡之祸。
孝愍皇帝讳鄴，字彦旗，武帝孙，吴孝王晏之子也。
出继后伯父秦献王柬，袭封秦王。
永嘉二年，拜散骑常侍、抚军将军。
及洛阳倾覆，避难于荥阳密县，与舅荀籓、荀组相遇，自密南趋许颍。
translation: 
When the emperor was born, auspicious seedlings grew in Nanchang, Yuzhang County.
Before that, the alchemist who observed the weather said that Yuzhang County had heaven and earth. Later, he became the crown prince as the king of Yuzhang.
When he was in Shugong, he was respectful, cautious, humble and self-disciplined, socialized with court officials, and discussed history books.
When he came to the throne, he began to follow the old system and went to Taiji Hall to have Shangshu Lang read out the political decrees formulated according to the seasons, and listened to politics in the East Hall.
At every banquet, he always discussed various affairs with the ministers and studied the classics.
Huangmen Shilang Fu Xuan exclaimed: Now we have seen the era of Emperor Wu again!
Xun Song, the secretary supervisor, often told people: Emperor Huai's natural talents were elegant and beautiful, and he had outstanding talents since he was a child. If he encounters a peaceful era, he can definitely become a good monarch who abides by the old system.
However, after Emperor Hui's disturbance and the dictatorship of King Shuhai, there was no disaster like King You and King Li of Zhou, but there was the disaster of exile.
Emperor Xiaomin's name was Sima Ye, whose courtesy name was Chan'ao. He was the grandson of Genzao and the son of King Xiao of Wu, Sima Yan.
He was adopted by his uncle Luwang Sima Dong, who later inherited the title of King of Painting.
In the second year of Cheng Sai's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of Fujun.
When Luoyang fell, he took refuge in Mi County, Rongyang, where he met his uncles Xun Fan and Xun Zu, and together they headed south from Mi County to Xuchang and Yingchuan.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
豫州刺史阎鼎与前抚军长史王毗、司徒长史刘畴、中书郎李昕及籓、组等同谋奉帝归于长安，而畴等中涂复叛，鼎追杀之，籓、组仅而获免。
鼎遂挟帝乘牛车，自宛趣武关，频遇山贼，士卒亡散，次于蓝田。
鼎告雍州刺史贾疋，疋遽遣州兵迎卫，达于长安，又使辅国将军梁综助守之。
时有玉龟出霸水，神马鸣城南焉。六年九月辛巳，奉秦王为皇太子，登坛告类，建宗庙社稷，大赦。
加疋征西大将军，以秦州刺史、南阳王保为大司马。
贾疋讨贼张连，遇害，众推始平太守麹允领雍州刺史，为盟主，承制选置。
建兴元年夏四月丙午，奉怀帝崩问，举哀成礼。
壬申，即皇帝位，大赦，改元。
以卫将军梁芬为司徒，雍州刺史麹允为使持节、领军将军、录尚书事，京兆大守索綝为尚书右仆射。
石勒攻龙骧将军李恽于上白，恽败，死之。
五月壬辰，以镇东大将军、琅邪王睿为侍中、左丞相、大都督陕东诸军事，大司马、南阳王保为右丞相、大都督陕西诸军事。
translation: 
The governor of Yuzhou, Jian Ding, together with former Fu army chief Shi Wangbi, Situ chief Shi Liu Chou, Zhongshu Lang Li Xin, Xun Fan, Xun Zu and others jointly planned to serve the emperor and settle down in Chang'an. However, Liu Chou and others rebelled midway, and Yan Ding chased and killed them. Xun Fan and Xun Zu were lucky enough to escape death.
Yan Ding took the emperor hostage and rode in an ox cart from Wan to Wuguan. He encountered bandits on the mountains many times, and the soldiers escaped dead and wounded, and temporarily settled in Lantian.
Qin Ding informed the governor of Yongzhou, Jia Zong, and Jia Zong hurriedly sent troops from the state to meet the guards. Finally they arrived in Chang'an and asked General Liang Zong to assist in the guard.
At that time, a jade turtle appeared in Bashui and a divine horse neighed in the south of the city. In the ninth month of the sixth year of Xinsi, King Qin was honored as the crown prince, went to the altar to offer sacrifices to heaven and the five emperors, established an ancestral temple and a shrine, and granted amnesty to the world.
He also conferred the title of Great General to Conquer the West, and appointed Sima Bao, the governor of Qinzhou and King of Nanyang, as the Great Sima.
Buying Zhuan attacked the traitor Zhang Lian and was killed. Everyone recommended Qu Yun, the prefect of Shihu, to concurrently serve as the governor of Yongzhou and the leader of the alliance. He would select people and appoint officials in accordance with the emperor's will.
On Bingwu in the summer of April of the first year of Jianxing, I learned of the death of Emperor Huai, and held a mourning ceremony according to etiquette.
Renshen ascended the throne as emperor, granted amnesty to the world, and changed his reign title.
General Liang Fen of the Wei was appointed as Situ, Qu Yun, the governor of Yongzhou, was appointed as envoy Chijie, leading general and secretary of the Shangshu Shi, and Suo Sui, the prefect of Jingzhao, was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
Shi Le attacked Longxiang General Li Tan in Shangbai, but Li Tan was defeated and died in battle.
On Renchen in the fifth month, Sima Rui, the general of Zhendong and the king of Langxie, was appointed as the minister, prime minister of the left, and the chief military officer of Shaanxi Shu.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
又诏二王曰： 夫阳九百六之灾，虽在盛世，犹或遘之。
朕以幼冲，纂承洪绪，庶凭祖宗之灵，群公义士之力，荡灭凶寇，拯拔幽宫，瞻望未达，肝心分裂。
昔周邵分陕，姬氏以隆；平王东迁，晋郑为辅。
今左右丞相茂德齐圣，国之昵属，当恃二公，扫除鲸鲵，奉迎梓宫，克复中兴。
令幽、并两州勒卒三十万，直造平阳。
右丞相宜帅秦、凉、梁、雍武旅三十万，径诣长安。
左丞相帅所领精兵二十万，径造洛阳。
分遣前锋，为幽并后驻。
赴同大限，克成元勋。
又诏琅邪王曰： 朕以冲昧，纂承洪绪，未能枭夷凶逆，奉迎梓宫，枕戈烦冤，肝心抽裂。
前得魏浚表，知公帅先三军，已据寿春，传檄诸侯，协齐威势，想今渐进，已达洛阳。
translation: 
He also issued an edict to these two kings: Speaking of disasters and bad luck, even in the heyday of the dynasty, we still sometimes encounter them.
I am still young and inherit the throne. I hope that with the protection of my ancestors and gods and the help of my ministers and loyal people, I can wipe out the vicious bandits and save and support the distressed royal family. My hope has not yet been realized, and my heart is broken.
In the past, the Dukes of Zhou and Shao ruled Shaanxi separately, and the Ji family prospered because of it. King Ping Shu of Zhou moved to Luoyi, and Jin and Zheng became his assistants.
Nowadays, the virtues of the prime ministers on the left and right can be compared with those of the ancient saints. They are the closest people to the country. Naturally, they must rely on them to eliminate the evildoers, welcome back the coffin of the late emperor, and restore Zhongxing.
Order You and Bing two states to raise 300,000 troops and fight all the way to Pingyang.
Prime Minister You should lead the Qin, Liang, Liang, and Yong armies with 300,000 troops, and march directly to Chang'an.
Prime Minister Zuo led his 200,000 elite troops to attack Luoyang.
Send forward troops respectively as backup for You and Ping's armies.
Let’s go to the decisive battle together and accomplish great achievements.
He also issued an edict to King Langye, saying: When I was young and ignorant, I inherited the throne, but I was not able to kill and eliminate the traitors and rebels. I respectfully welcomed back the coffin of the late emperor. The war continued, and my heart was depressed and my liver was broken.
Not long ago, I received a letter from Wei Jun. I knew that the three armies led by the Duke had already established themselves in Shouchun and issued a message to the princes. They worked together to form a mighty military force. It is expected that they will gradually advance and have arrived in Luoyang.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
凉州刺史张轨，乃心王室，连旗万里，已到氵幵陇；梁州刺史张光，亦遣巴汉之卒，屯在骆谷：秦川骁勇，其会如林。
间遣使适还，具知平阳定问，云幽并隆盛，余胡衰破，然犹恃险，当须大举。
未知公今所到，是以息兵秣马，未便进军。
今为已至何许，当须来旨，便乘舆自出，会除中原也。
公宜思弘谋猷，勖济远略，使山陵旋反，四海有赖。
故遣殿中都尉刘蜀、苏马等具宣朕意。
公茂德昵属，宣隆东夏，恢融六合，非公而谁！
但洛都陵庙，不可空旷，公宜镇抚，以绥山东。
右丞相当入辅弼，追踪周邵，以隆中兴也。
六月，石勒害兗州刺史田徽。
是时，山东郡邑相继陷于勒。
秋八月癸亥，刘蜀等达于扬州。
translation: 
Zhang Gui, the governor of Liangzhou, was loyal to the imperial court and led his troops from far away and had already reached Yi and Long; Zhang Guang, the governor of Liangzhou, also sent troops from Ba and Han to garrison in Luo Valley; the generals and warriors of Qinchuan gathered together one after another.
Recently, an envoy was sent to Pingyang, and they have returned. They know the real news about Pingyang, saying that You and Bing are prosperous, and the remaining Hu people are in decline and ruin, but they still rely on the danger to resist and must attack in a large scale.
Because they still didn't know where Gong was now, they temporarily stopped their troops to rest and did not attack immediately.
Now that you have arrived somewhere, you should come and let me know. I will ride out in my car and go out in person to join forces to wipe out the enemies in the Central Plains.
The Duke should consider using his talents and work hard to complete the ambitious plan so that the late emperor's coffin can be returned and people all over the world can rely on it.
To this end, I dispatched the imperial commanders Liu Shu and Su Ma to declare my intention in detail.
He has outstanding public morals and is a close member of the clan. Who else can revitalize China and unify the Central Plains?
However, the mausoleums and ancestral temples in Luodu cannot be left empty and deserted. They should be guarded and protected in order to stabilize Shandong.
Prime Minister You should enter the court to assist in government affairs and imitate the ancient Duke of Zhou, Shao Gong, to complete the great cause of ZTE.
In June, Shi Le killed Tian Hui, the governor of Yanzhou.
At this time, the counties and cities in Shandong were captured by Shi Le one after another.
In the autumn and August of Guihai, Liu Shu and others arrived in Yangzhou.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
改建鄴为建康，改鄴为临漳。
杜弢寇武昌，焚烧城邑。
弢别将王真袭沔阳，荆州刺史周顗奔于健康。
九月，司空荀籓薨于荥阳。
刘聪寇河南，河南尹张髦死之。
冬十月，荆州刺史陶侃讨杜弢党杜曾于石城，为曾所败。
己巳，大雨雹。
庚午，大雪。
十一月，流人杨武攻陷梁州。
十二月，河东地震，雨肉。
二年春正月己巳朔，黑雾著人如墨，连夜，五日乃止。
辛未，辰时日陨于地。
又有三日相承，出于西方而东行。
丁丑，大赦。
杨武大略汉中，遂奔李雄。
二月壬寅，以司空王浚为大司马，卫将军荀组为司空，凉州刺史张轨为太尉，封西平郡公，并州刺史刘琨为大将军。
三月癸酉，石勒陷幽州，杀侍中、大司马、幽州牧、博陵公王浚，焚烧城邑，害万余人。
杜弢别帅王真袭荆州刺史陶侃于林鄣，侃奔滠中。
夏四月甲辰，地震。
translation: 
Jianye was renamed Jiancheng, and Ye was renamed Linzhang.
Du Chen invaded Wuchang and set fire to the houses in the city.
Du Sou's general Wang Zhen attacked Mianyang, and Jingzhou governor Zhou Hao fled to Jiankang.
In September, Sikong Goufan died in Rongyang.
Liu Cong invaded Henan, and Yin Zhangmao of Henan died in battle.
In the winter of October, Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Du Zeng, a member of Du Qiang's party, but was defeated by Du Zeng in Shicheng.
Ji Si, heavy hail fell.
Gengwu, it snowed heavily.
In November, the refugee Yang Wu captured Liangzhou.
In December, an earthquake occurred in Hedong and it rained meat.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of the first lunar month, there was a black fog, which stuck to people's bodies like ink stains. It was difficult to distinguish between day and night, and it took five consecutive days to dissipate.
Xinwei, the sun sets at midnight in the morning.
There are three more suns connected, coming out from the west and going east.
Ding Chou, grant amnesty to the world.
Yang Wu looted the Hanzhong area and then defected to Li Xiong.
In the second month of Renyin, Wang Jun of Sikong was appointed as Grand Sima, General Xun Zu of Wei was appointed as Sikong, Zhang Gui, the governor of Liangzhou, was made Taiwei, Zhang Gui was made the Duke of Xiping County, and Liu Kun, the governor of Bingzhou, was appointed as the general.
In the third month of Guiyou, Shi Le captured Youzhou and killed Shi Zhong, Da Sima, Youzhou Mu, and Prince Boling. He set fire to the houses in the city and killed more than 10,000 people.
Du Sou's deputy commander Wang Zhen attacked Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, in Lin Zhang, and Tao Kan fled to Tianzhong.
On the first day of April in summer, there was an earthquake.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
五月壬辰，太尉、领护羌校尉、凉州刺史、西平公张轨薨。
六月，刘曜、赵冉寇新丰诸县，安东将军索綝讨破之。
秋七月，曜、冉等又逼京都，领军将军麹允讨破之，冉中流矢而死。
九月，北中郎将刘演克顿丘，斩石勒所署太守邵攀。丙戌，麟见襄平。
单于代公猗卢遣使献马。
蒲子马生人。
三年春正月，盗杀晋昌太守赵佩。
吴兴人徐馥害太守袁琇。
以侍中宋哲为平东将军。屯华阴。
二月丙子，进左丞相、琅邪王睿为大都督、督中外诸军事，右丞相、南阳王保为相国，司空荀组为太尉，大将军刘琨为司空。
进封代公猗卢为代王。
荆州刺史陶侃破王真于巴陵。
杜弢别将杜弘、张彦与临川内史谢摛战于海昏，摛败绩，死之。
三月，豫率内史周访击杜弘，走之，斩张彦于陈。
夏四月，大赦。
五月，刘聪寇并州。
translation: 
In the fifth month of Renchen, Zhang Gui, the Taiwei, the captain who led the Qiang army, the governor of Liangzhou, and the Duke of Xiping died.
In June, Liu Yao and Tran Ran invaded Xinfeng counties, and Anton general Suo Sui attacked and defeated them.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Yao, Zhao Ran and others invaded Kyoto again. The leading general Qu Yun attacked and defeated them. Zhao Ran was killed by an arrow.
In September, Beizhonglang general Liu Yan captured Dunqiu and beheaded Bingxu, Shao Pan, the prefect appointed by Shi Le. Qilin appeared in Xiangping.
Shanyu sent an envoy to offer horses on behalf of Duke Yilu.
Puzi's horse gave birth to a human being.
In the first month of spring of the third year, thieves killed Zhao Pei, the prefect of Jinchang.
Xu Fu, a native of Wuxing, killed the prefect Yuan You.
Song Zhe, the servant in charge, was appointed as General Pingdong and stationed in Huayin.
On the second day of the second month, Sima Rui, the prime minister of the left and the king of Langxie, was promoted to the general governor, supervising all the Chinese and foreign military affairs. The prime minister on the right and the king of Nanyang, Sima Bao, was promoted to the prime minister.
Jin made Dai Gong Yilu the acting king.
Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated Wang Zhen in Baling.
Du Hong and Zhang Yan, Du Sou's generals, fought with Linchuan Nei Shi Xie in Haihun. Xie Zie failed and died in the battle.
In March, Zhou Fang, the internal historian of Yuzhang, attacked Du Hong, drove him away, and beheaded Zhang Yan in the battle.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In May Liu Cong invaded Bingzhou.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
六月，盗发汉霸、杜二陵及薄太后陵，太后面如生，得金玉彩帛不可胜记。
时以朝廷草创，服章多阙，敕收其余，以实内府。
丁卯，地震。
辛巳，大赦。
敕雍州掩骼埋胔，修复陵墓，有犯者诛及三族。
秋七月，石勒陷濮阳，害太守韩弘。
刘聪寇上党，刘琨遣将救之。
八月癸亥，战于襄垣，王师败绩。
荆州刺史陶侃攻杜弢，弢败走，道死，湘州平。
九月，刘曜寇北地，命领军将军麹允讨之。
冬十月，允进攻青白城。
以豫州牧、征东将军索綝为尚书仆射、都督宫城诸军事。
刘聪陷冯翊，太守梁肃奔万年。
十二月，凉州刺史张寔送皇帝行玺一纽。
盗杀安定太守赵班。
四年春三月，代王猗卢薨，其众归于刘琨。
夏四月丁丑，刘曜寇上郡，太守籍韦率其众奔于南郑。
translation: 
In June, thieves excavated the two mausoleums of Ba and Du in Modai, as well as the mausoleum of Queen Mother Bo. The Queen Mother's face looked just like when she was alive, and they got countless gold, jade, color and silk.
At that time, because the imperial court was new and there were not enough official costumes, the emperor ordered that the remaining tomb robbers be confiscated and put into the royal warehouse.
Ding Mao, Chang'an earthquake.
Xin Si, grant amnesty to the world.
Yongzhou was ordered to bury the dead bones and carrion, repair the tombs, and execute the three clans who broke the law in tomb robbery.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shi Le captured Puyang and killed the prefect Han Hong.
Liu Cong invaded Shangdang, and Liu Kun sent generals to rescue him.
In August Guihai, they fought at Xiangyuan and Wang's army was defeated.
Tao Kan, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Du Fu, but Du Sou was defeated and fled, dying on the way. Xiangzhou was pacified.
In September, Liu Yao invaded the north and ordered the leading general Qu Yun to attack him.
In the tenth month of winter, Qu Yun marched to attack Qingbaicheng.
Appoint Yuzhou Mu and Zhengshu General Suo Sui as Shangshu Pushe and Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Gongcheng.
Liu Cong captured Feng Yi, and the prefect Liang Su fled for thousands of years.
In December, Zhang Xuan, the governor of Liangzhou, sent the emperor's official seal.
The robbers killed Zhao Ban, the governor of Anding.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, Dai Wang Yilu died, and his subordinates belonged to Liu Kun.
In the fourth month of Xia, Ding Chou, Liu Yao invaded Shangjun, and the prefect Ji Wei led his men to flee to Nanzheng.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
凉州刺史张寔遣步骑五千来赴京都。
石勒陷廪丘，北中郎将刘演出奔。
五月，平夷太守雷照害南广太守孟桓，帅二郡三千余家叛降于李雄。
六月丁巳朔，日有蚀之。
大蝗。秋七月，刘曜攻北地，麹允帅步骑三万救之。
王师不战而溃，北地太守麹昌奔于京师。
曜进至泾阳，渭北诸城悉溃，建威将军鲁克、散骑常侍梁纬、少府皇甫阳等皆死之。
八月，刘曜逼京师，内外断绝，镇西将军焦嵩、平东将军宋哲、始平太守竺恢等同赴国难，麹允与公卿守长安小城以自固，散骑常侍华辑监京兆、冯翊、弘农、上洛四郡兵东屯霸上，镇军将军胡崧帅城西诸郡兵屯遮马桥，并不敢进。
冬十月，京师饥甚，米斗金二两，人相食，死者太半。
太仓有曲数饼，麹允屑为粥以供帝，至是复尽。
translation: 
Zhang Shi, the governor of Liangzhou, sent a total of 5,000 infantry and cavalry to Kyoto.
Shi Le captured Linqiu, and Bei Zhonglang's general Liu Xiang fled.
In May, Lei Zhao, the prefect of Pingyi, killed Meng Huan, the prefect of Nanguang, and led three families in two counties to rebel and surrender to Li Xiong.
On the first day of June, Dingsi, there was a solar eclipse and locusts were infested.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Yao attacked the north, and Qu Yun led a total of 30,000 infantry and cavalry to rescue him.
The king's army collapsed without a fight, and Qu Chang, the governor of the north, fled to the capital.
When Liu Yao entered Jingyang, all the cities north of the Wei River were lost. Jianwei General Lu Chong, Sanqi Changshi Liang Wei, Shaofu Huangfu Yang and others were all killed in the battle.
In August, Liu Yao advanced towards the capital, cutting off all traffic within and outside the city. General Jiao Song of Zhenxi, General Song Zhe of Pingshu, Zhu Hui, the prefect of Shiping, and others all went to the national disaster. Qu Yun and his ministers defended the small town of Chang'an in self-defense. Hua Ji, the regular servant of Sanqi, supervised the troops of Jingzhao, Fengyi, Hongnong and Shangluo counties stationed at Bashang of the city. The town army general Hu Song led the soldiers and horses of the counties in the west of the city to station at Zemaqiao, but they did not dare to advance.
In the tenth month of winter, there was a serious famine in the capital. A bushel of rice was worth two taels of gold. People were cannibalizing and most of the people died.
There were dozens of wine cakes left in Taicang, and Qu Yun crushed them into crumbs and cooked them into porridge for the emperor to eat. By this time, they were all eaten.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
帝泣谓允曰： 今窘厄如此，外无救援，死于社稷，是朕事也。
然念将士暴离斯酷，今欲因城未陷为羞死之事，庶令黎元免屠烂之苦。
行矣遣书，朕意决矣。
十一月乙末，使侍中宋敞送笺于曜，帝乘羊车，肉袒衔壁，舆榇出降。
群臣号泣攀车，执帝之手，帝亦悲不自胜。
御史中丞吉朗自杀。
曜焚榇受壁，使宋敞奉帝还宫。
初，有童谣曰： 天子何在豆田中。
时王浚在幽州，以豆有藿，杀隐士霍原以应之。
及帝如曜营，营实在城东豆田壁。
辛丑，帝蒙尘于平阳，麹允及群官并从。
刘聪假帝光禄大夫、怀安侯。
壬寅，聪临殿，帝稽首于前，麹允伏地恸哭，因自杀。
尚书梁允、侍中梁浚、散骑常侍严敦、左丞臧振、黄门侍郎任播、张伟、杜曼及诸郡守并为曜所害，华辑奔南山。
石勒围乐平，司空刘琨遣兵援之，为勒所败，乐平太守韩据出奔。
司空长史李弘以并州叛降于勒。
translation: 
The emperor cried and said to Qu Yun: Now that we are in such distress and there is no one outside to rescue us, it is my business to die for the country.
Unfortunately, the officers and soldiers of Gu Nian fell into such a cruel situation. Now I want to do something humiliating before the city is captured, hoping to save the people of Li from the suffering of massacre.
Go ahead and send me a letter of surrender. I have made up my mind.
At the end of November, Song Chang, the attendant, was sent to deliver a letter to Liu Yao. The emperor rode a sheep cart, with his upper body exposed and a jade in his mouth, and carried the coffin out of the city to surrender.
The ministers cried and clung to the car, holding the emperor's hand tightly. The emperor could not help himself in grief.
Yushi Zhongcheng Jilang committed suicide.
Liu Yao burned the coffin, accepted the jade, and asked Song Chang to serve the emperor and return to the palace.
At the beginning, there was a nursery rhyme that said: Why is the emperor wrapped in a bean field?
At that time, Wang Jun was in Youzhou. He thought that the bean leaf was called Huo, so he killed the hermit Huo Yuan to make the nursery rhyme come true.
When the emperor went to Liu Yao's military camp, the military camp was on the wall of the bean field near the city.
Xin Chou, the emperor was taken to Pingyang and imprisoned, and Qu Yun and other officials accompanied him.
Liu Cong asked the emperor to temporarily serve as Doctor Guanglu and Marquis Huai'an.
In Renyin, Liu Cong went to the palace, and the emperor kowtowed in front of him. Qu Yun fell on the ground and cried bitterly, and then committed suicide.
Shangshu Liang Yun, Shizhong Liang Jun, Sanqi Changshi Yan Dun, Zuo Cheng Zang Zhen, Huangmen Shilang Ren Bo, Zhang Wei, Du Man and the prefects of various counties were all killed by Liu Yao, and Hua Ji fled to Nanshan.
Shi Le besieged Leping, and Sikong Liu Kun sent troops to rescue him. Shi Le was defeated, and Han Ju, the governor of Leping, fled.
Sikong Chief Shi Li Hong betrayed Bingzhou and surrendered to Shi Le.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
十二月甲申朔，日有蚀之。
己未，刘琨奔蓟，依段匹磾。
五年春正月，帝在平阳。
庚子，虹霓弥天，三日并照。
平东将军宋哲奔江左。
李雄使其将李恭、罗寅寇巴东。
二月，刘聪使其将刘暢攻荥阳，太守李矩击破之。
三月，琅邪王睿承制改元，称晋王于建康。
夏五月丙子，日有蚀之。
秋七月，大暑，司、冀、青、雍等四州螽蝗。
石勒亦竞取百姓禾，时人谓之 胡蝗 。
八月，刘聪使赵固袭卫将军华荟于定颍，遂害之。
冬十月丙子，日有蚀之。
刘聪出猎，令帝行车骑将军，戎服执戟为导，百姓聚而观之，故老或歔欷流涕，聪闻而恶之。
聪后因大会，使帝行酒洗爵，反而更衣，又使帝执盖，晋臣在坐者多失声而泣，尚书郎辛宾抱帝恸哭，为聪所害。
十二月戊戌，帝遇弑，崩于平阳，时年十八。
translation: 
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of December, Yi Mao.
Before long, Liu Kun fled to Ji and attached himself to Duan Pichen.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, the emperor was in Pingyang.
Gengzi, the sky is full of rainbows, and three suns are shining at the same time.
Pingdong General Song Zhe fled to Jiangzuo.
Li Xiong sent his generals Li Gong and Luo Yin to invade Ba Shu.
In February, Liu Cong sent his general Liu Chang to attack Rongyang, and the prefect Li Ju defeated him.
In March, Langye King Sima Rui followed the emperor's will and changed his reign title, calling himself King Jin in Jiankang.
In the fifth month of summer, there is a solar eclipse.
In autumn and July, there is a severe drought, and there are locusts in Si, Ji, Qing, and Yong prefectures.
Shi Le also rushed to collect the crops of the people. At that time, people called them "Hu locusts".
In August, Liu Cong sent Zhao Gu to attack General Hua Lei in Linying and killed him.
In the tenth month of winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Liu Cong went out hunting and ordered the emperor to act as a general of chariots and cavalry, wearing a military uniform and holding a halberd as a leader. The people gathered to watch him. Some of the old ministers cried and shed tears. Liu Cong was disgusted after hearing this.
Later, at the banquet, Liu Cong asked the emperor to drink wine and rinse the wine master. When he went to the toilet, he asked the emperor to hold the toilet lid. Many of the old officials of the Jin Dynasty present here burst into tears. Shangshulang Xinbin held the emperor in his arms and cried bitterly, and was killed by Liu Cong.
In December of 1898, the emperor was killed and Zai Huyang passed away at the age of eighteen.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
帝之继皇统也，属永嘉之乱，天下崩离，长安城中户不盈百，墙宇颓毁，蒿棘成林。
朝廷无车马章服，唯桑版署号而已。
众唯一旅，公私有车四乘，器械多阙，运馈不继。
巨猾滔天，帝京危急，诸侯无释位之志，征镇阙勤王之举，故君臣窘迫，以至杀辱云。
史臣曰：昔炎晖杪暮，英雄多假于宗室。金德韬华，颠沛共推于怀愍。
樊阳寂寥，兵车靡会，岂力不足而情有余乎？
喋喋遗萌，苟存其主，譬彼诗人，爱其棠树。
夫有非常之事，而无非常之功，详观发迹，用非天启，是以舆棺齿剑，可得而言焉。
于时五岳三涂，并皆沦寇，龙州、牛首，故以立君。
股肱非挑战之秋，刘石有滔天之势，疗饥中断，婴戈外绝，两京沦狄，再驾徂戎。
周王陨首于骊峰，卫公亡肝于淇上，思为一郡，其可得乎！
translation: 
When the emperor inherited the throne, the Yongjia Rebellion was happening, and the world was falling apart. There were less than a hundred households in the city of Chang'an, the walls and palaces were in ruins, and forests of wormwood and thorns had grown.
The imperial court had no vehicles, horses, or clothing, but only used mulberry boards to write names on them.
There is only one brigade of soldiers, and there are four public and private vehicles. Many equipments are lacking, and food is not received.
The traitor was so cunning and arrogant, the situation in the capital was very critical, the princes did not have the courage to give up their titles, and the generals lacked the courage to do their best for the emperor. Therefore, the monarch and his ministers were embarrassed and forced, and were finally killed and humiliated.
Shi Chen said: The dynasty is like the glorious sun. At dusk, most of the heroes who save the country come from the royal family; the destiny of the country is like gold and jade that has lost its luster. The wandering emperors all think that they should pay tribute to Emperor Huai and Emperor Min.
Yangfan is quiet and deserted, and no military chariots came to the gathering. Could it be that he is not strong enough but loyal enough?
The people who survived the disaster struggled to keep the monarch alive, just like the ancient poets cherished the Tangdi tree.
Extraordinary events have occurred, but no one has established extraordinary achievements. Carefully examining the situation of prosperity is not inspired by heaven. Therefore, it is possible to carry a coffin in a car and to surrender with a sword between teeth.
As a result, the mountains and rivers including Wuyue and Santu all fell into the hands of the enemy. Places like Longzhou and Niushou were used as the base of the monarch.
The ministers of Gu and Gong were not capable of defeating the enemy, but Liu and Shi were extremely powerful. As a result, they had no food to satisfy their hunger and no troops to rescue them. The two capitals were captured by the Di people, and the two emperors were escorted to the Rong camp.
King You of Zhou lost his head in Mount Li, and Duke Wu of Wei was heartbroken by the Qishui River. He wanted to get a county, but how could he do it?


Chunk 24: 
original: 
干宝有言曰：昔高祖宣皇帝以雄才硕量，应时而仕，值魏太祖创基之初，筹画军国，嘉谋屡中，遂服舆轸，驱驰三世。
性深阻有若城府，而能宽绰以容纳；行任数以御物，而知人善采拔。
故贤愚咸怀，大小毕力。
尔乃取邓艾于农隙，引州泰于行役，委以文武，各善其事。
故能西禽孟达，东举公孙，内夷曹爽，外袭王凌。
神略独断，征伐四克，维御群后，大权在己。
于是百姓与能，大象始构。
世宗承基，太祖继业，玄丰乱内，钦诞寇外，潜谋虽密，而在机必兆；淮浦再扰，而许洛不震：咸黜异图，用融前烈。
然后推毂钟邓，长驱庸蜀，三关电埽，而刘禅入臣，天符人事，于是信矣。
始当非常之礼，终受备物之锡。
至于世祖，遂享皇极。
translation: 
Gan Bao commented: In the past, Emperor Xuan, the great ancestor, took up official positions in response to the current situation due to his talent and strategy. Just when Wei Taizu began to establish his foundation, he planned military and national affairs. His clever plans were often successful, so he shouldered heavy responsibilities and fought hard for three dynasties.
He has a deep and dignified character, is able to be magnanimous and accommodates everyone; he can control things by letting things happen naturally, and he knows how to handle people well.
Therefore, no matter wise or foolish, everyone respects him and does his best in all matters big and small.
In this way, Deng Ai, a small official in charge of farming, was promoted, and Zhou Tai, who had a humble position in the army, was promoted to them. They were assigned civil and military positions, and they were all qualified.
Therefore, he was able to conquer Meng Da in the western expedition, defeat Gongsun Wenyi in the eastern expedition, pacify Cao Shuang internally, and surprise Wang Leng externally.
His strategies are miraculous and his decisions are unique. He conquers all directions in battles, protects the emperor and princes, and has great power.
Under such circumstances, people get close to talented people, and a general trend begins to take shape.
Shizong and Taizu established their foundations, Xiahou Xuan and Li Feng rebelled in the court, and Wen Qin and Zhuge Dan raised troops as bandits abroad. Although the conspiracy was carried out secretly, it would be exposed at a critical moment; the banks of the Huai River were harassed repeatedly, but the Xu and Luo areas were not shaken: all the rebellion plots were stopped.
The merits of our predecessors have thus been carried forward. Then Zhong Hui and Deng Ai were reused, and they marched into Yong and Shu. The three passes were wiped out like lightning. Liu Chan came to surrender and became a vassal. The auspicious symbols and human conspiracies from the sky all became facts by this time.
Receive extraordinary courtesy at the beginning and receive the highest reward that is unparalleled.
When he arrived at Shizu, he finally became the emperor.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
仁以厚下，俭以足用，和而不驰，宽而能断，故民咏维新，四海悦劝矣。
聿修祖宗之志，思辑战国之苦。
腹心不同，公卿异议，而独纳羊祜之策，杖王杜之决，役不二时，江湘来同。
掩唐虞之旧域，班正朔于八荒，天下书同文，车同轨，牛马被野，余粮委亩，故于时有 天下无穷人 之谚。
虽太平未洽，亦足以明吏奉其法，民乐其生矣。
武皇既崩，山陵未乾，而杨骏被诛，母后废黜。
寻以二公、楚王之变，宗子无维城之助，师尹无具瞻之贵，至乃易天子以太上之号，而有免官之谣。
translation: 
Benevolence makes the subjects rich, frugality makes the use sufficient, peace does not relax the laws and disciplines, generosity makes the government decisive, so the people praise the innovation, and the whole world happily accepts the decree.
Carry forward the aspirations of our ancestors and calm the pain of war.
The intimate ministers had different ideas, and the ministers had different opinions, but they only adopted Yang Ku's strategy and relied on Wang Jun and Du Yu's decisions. In less than two quarters, the Jiang and Hunan areas were unified.
It governed the old areas of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, and the new calendar reached far-flung places in all directions. People all over the world used the same writing script, and the carriage and horse roads used the same specifications. Cattle and horses were everywhere in the mountains and fields, and surplus grain was piled up in the fields. Therefore, there was a proverb at that time that there are endless people in the world.
Although peace has not yet completely settled, it is enough to show that the officials obey the law and the people live and work in peace and contentment.
After the death of Gen Locust, before the soil in the mountains was dry, Yang Jun was executed and his mother was deposed.
Soon after, because he killed the Taizai and the Taibao and killed the King of Chu, the eldest son no longer had a helper to protect him, and the leader of the officials did not have a dignified status respected by everyone. As a result, the emperor was changed to the Supreme Emperor, and there were rumors that he was dismissed from office.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
民不见德，惟乱是闻，朝为伊周，夕成桀蹠，善恶陷于成败，毁誉胁于世利，内外混淆，庶官失才，名实反错，天纲解纽。
国政迭移于乱人，禁兵外散于四方，方岳无钧石之镇，关门无结草之固。
李辰、石冰倾之于荆杨，元海、王弥挠之于青冀，戎羯称制，二帝失尊，何哉？树立失权，托付非才，四维不张，而苟且之政多也。
夫作法于治，其弊犹乱；作法于乱，谁能救之！彼元海者，离石之将兵都尉；王弥者，青州之散吏也。
盖皆弓马之士，驱走之人，非有吴先主、诸葛孔明之能也；新起之寇，乌合之众，非吴蜀之敌也；脱耒为兵，裂裳为旗，非战国之器也；自下逆上，非邻国之势也。
然而扰天下如驱群羊，举二都如拾遗芥，将相王侯连颈以受戮，后嫔妃主虏辱于戎卒，岂不哀哉！天下，大器也；群生，重畜也。
爱恶相攻，利害相夺，其势常也。
translation: 
The people see no virtue and only hear about rebellion. In the morning they are virtuous people like Duke Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, but in the evening they become evil people like Xia Ji and thieves. Good and evil are determined by success or failure, reputation and reputation are controlled by worldly interests, internal and external are confused, common people and officials are not determined by their status, names and reality are inconsistent, and the laws and regulations of the heaven are omitted and incomplete.
The political affairs of the country were successively taken over by those who caused trouble. The army of the imperial guards fled in all directions.
Li Chen and Shi Bing rebelled in Jing and Yang, Liu Wutu and Wang You rebelled in Zhi and Ji, Rong and Dan became emperors, and the two emperors, Dei and Jian, lost their dignity and became prisoners. Why? The people who were given important positions lost their power, the people who were promoted had no talents, the laws and disciplines of the country could not be upheld, and too many political affairs were perfunctory.
Laws and regulations are made to control chaos, but if there are shortcomings, they will lead to chaos; laws and regulations are made without common sense, who can save him? Liu Yuanhai is the captain of the army in Lishi; Wang Mi is the casual official in Qingzhou.
They are all people who lead bows and horses, and are driven by others, and they do not have the talents of Wu Xianzhu and Zhuge Kongming; the newly emerged bandits and rabble cannot be compared with Wu and Shu; they put down their farm tools and became soldiers, and tore their clothes to make flags, which was not a weapon to conquer the country; they rebelled against the imperial court from below, and they were not the same force as neighboring countries.
However, disrupting the world is like driving a flock of sheep, and capturing the two capitals is like picking up fallen mustard grass. The generals, ministers, princes, and princes were killed one after another, and the queens, concubines, and princesses were captured and insulted by the soldiers. How sad that the world is the foundation of the throne; the people are the most precious wealth.
It is common for people to attack each other because of likes or dislikes, and to compete with each other because of interests.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
若积水于防，燎火于原，未尝暂静也。
器大者，不可以小道治；势重者，不可以争竞扰。
古先哲王知其然也，是以捍其大患，御其大灾。
百姓皆知上德之生己，而不谓浚己以生也，是以感而应之，悦而归之，如晨风之郁北林，龙鱼之趣薮泽也。
然后设礼文以理之，断刑罚以威之，谨好恶以示之，审祸福以喻之，求明察以官之，尊慈爱以固之。
故众知向方，皆乐其生而哀其死，悦其教而安其俗；君子勤礼，小人尽力，廉耻笃于家闾，邪辟消于胸怀。
故其民有见危以授命，而不求生以害义，又况可奋臂大呼，聚之以干纪作乱乎！基广则难倾，根深则难拔，理节则不乱，胶结则不迁，是以昔之有天下者之所以长久也。
夫岂无僻主，赖道德典刑以维持之也。
translation: 
Just like the accumulated water in the dam and the lit fire in the grassland, there is never a moment of stillness.
If the country is too big, it cannot be governed by ordinary methods; if the power is too big, it cannot be obtained by fighting for it.
Wise emperors in ancient times understood this truth, so they were prepared for major disasters and resisted major disasters.
The common people knew that it was the emperor's benevolence that enabled them to survive, and did not think that they survived by squeezing themselves. Therefore, they were grateful and obeyed him, and they were satisfied and attached to him, just like the morning breeze blowing into the lush forest, or the dragon fish swimming into the swamp lake.
Then set up etiquette and education to govern them, determine punishments and punishments to deter them, carefully distinguish the good and the ugly for them to see, clearly distinguish the causes of misfortunes and blessings to teach them, strive to manage them with discernment, and win over them with respect and advocating love.
Therefore, the people know what to pursue, are happy for his existence, sad for his death, feel happy and at ease with his teachings and accept his moral standards; the gentleman diligently practices etiquette and justice, the villain works hard, integrity is promoted in the alleys of the family, and evil thoughts are eliminated at the beginning of their minds.
Therefore, when the people see danger and can stand up, and do not compromise morality in order to survive, how can they be shouted out and gather to cause chaos? If the foundation is broad, it will be difficult to topple, if the roots are deep, it will be difficult to pull out, if the texture is regular, it will not be disordered, and if it is glued together, it will not move. Therefore, those who once occupied the world can last for a long time.
How could there not be a few monarchs who made mistakes? They all relied on morality and the legal system to maintain their existence.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
昔周之兴也，后稷生于姜嫄，而天命昭显，文武之功起于后稷。
至于公刘，遭夏人之乱，去邰之豳，身服厥劳。
至于太王，为戎翟所逼，而不忍百姓之命，杖策而去之。
故从之如归市，一年成邑，二年成都，三年五倍其初。
至于王季，能貊其德音；至于文王，而维新其命。
由此观之，周家世积忠厚，仁及草木，内隆九族，外尊事黄耇，以成其福禄者也。
而其妃后躬行四教，尊敬师傅，服瀚濯之衣，修烦辱之事，化天下以成妇道。
是以汉滨之女，守洁白之志，中林之士，有纯一之德，始于忧勤，终于逸乐。
以三圣之知，伐独夫之纣，犹正其名教，曰逆取顺守。
及周公遭变，陈后稷先公风化之所由，致王业之艰难者，则皆农夫女工衣食之事也。
故自后稷之始基靖民，十五王而文始平之，十六王而武始居之，十八王而康克安之。
translation: 
In the past, the rise of the Zhou Dynasty, when Jiang Xuan gave birth to Hou Ji, God's will was clearly revealed. The achievements of King Wen and King Wu began from Hou Ji's side.
When Gong Liu arrived, he encountered war in the Xia Dynasty, so he left Tai and moved to Bin to engage in hard work himself.
When he arrived at Taiwang, he was threatened by Rong and Zhai, but he couldn't bear to hurt the people, so Zhang Ce ran away and left Bin.
Therefore, the people followed him just like going to the market. They formed a town in one year and a capital in two years. After three years, the scale was five times that of the original.
When it comes to King Ji, it can eliminate rumors of right and wrong, and people's hearts are stable; when it comes to King Wen, it can renew Zhou's destiny.
From this point of view, the Zhou family has been loyal and kind for generations, making the nine clans prosperous internally, and respecting and serving the elders externally, which is why they have such good fortune.
Moreover, their concubines personally practiced the four virtues of women, respected their masters, wore washed clothes, and engaged in menial and menial household chores, thus influencing the people of the world and forming the virtue of women.
Therefore, a woman, like a wandering girl by the Han River, can protect her chastity and innocence, and a reclusive person has a pure and firm character, which begins with care and diligence and ends with ease and happiness.
With the wisdom of the three saints, the crusade against an independent man like Zhou must have a legitimate name. It is called conquering the world by force and governing the world by cultivating culture and education.
When Zhou Gong encountered an incident, he recounted the history of Houji's ancestors educating the people and the difficulties of the ancestors' starting a business. The contents were all related to the food and clothing of farmers and women workers.
Therefore, since Hou Ji began to establish foundations to appease the people, after fifteen generations, King Wen pacified the world, after sixteen generations, King Wu took possession of the world, and after eighteen kings, King Kang finally stabilized the world.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
故其积基树本，经纬礼俗，节理人情，恤隐民事，如此之缠绵也。
今晋之兴也，功烈于百王，事捷于三代。
宣景遭多难之时，诛庶孽以便事，不及修公刘、太王之仁也。
受遗辅政，屡遇废置，故齐王不明，不获思庸于亳；高贵冲人，不得复子明辟也。
二祖逼禅代之期，不暇待参分八百之会也。
是其创基立本，异于先代者也。
加以朝寡纯德之人，乡乏不贰之老，风俗淫僻，耻尚失所，学者以老庄为宗而黜《六经》，谈者以虚荡为辨而贱名检，行身者以放浊为通而狭节信，进仕者以苟得为贵而鄙居正，当官者以望空为高而笑勤恪。
是以刘颂屡言治道，傅咸每纠邪正，皆谓之俗吏；其倚杖虚旷，依阿无心者皆名重海内。
若夫文王日旰不暇食，仲山甫夙夜匪懈者，盖共嗤黜以为灰尘矣。
translation: 
They accumulate foundations, cultivate fundamentals, promote etiquette and customs, adjust human relations and appease civil society, they are so meticulous and long-lasting.
Now that the Jin Dynasty has risen, its achievements are more prominent than those of previous emperors, and its career is more successful than that of the three generations.
When Emperor Xuan and Emperor Jing encountered many disasters, they killed the evildoers to solve the problem, and did not bother to implement the benevolent government like Gong Liu and King Tai.
Accepting orders to assist in government affairs, he encountered the deposing of the emperor many times. Therefore, the king of Qi did not know the political etiquette and was unable to regain control of the government. Gaoguixianggong was young and ignorant, and did not restore his status as emperor.
When the two ancestors forced the Zen throne to be established, they had no time to wait for the princes from all walks of life to come together to recommend them.
Dispatching was what made them different from previous generations when they created the foundation and established the country.
In addition, there are few people with pure moral character in the court, there is a lack of loyal elders in the countryside, and the customs are unhealthy. They have lost their sense of shame and the goals they should uphold. Scholars regard Lao and Zhuang’s thoughts as authentic and do not study the Six Classics, and talkers regard them as empty. Honor and morality are regarded as goals and looked down upon. People who act in an ordinary way regard laissez-faire behavior as understanding and lack integrity and integrity. Officials value greed and despise integrity. Those in power regard indifference to government affairs as wisdom and ridicule diligence.
Therefore, Liu Song often talked about the methods of governance, and Fu Xian often corrected the good and the evil, and they were both called lay officials. Those who respected emptiness and relied on inaction were well-known in the world.
As for people like King Wen of Zhou who had no time to eat when the sun was in the west, and people like Zhong Shanfu who dared not slack off from morning to night, they were laughed at by everyone and regarded as dust.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
由是毁誉乱于善恶之实，情慝奔于货欲之涂。
选者为人择官，官者为身择利，而执钧当轴之士，身兼官以十数。
大极其尊，小录其耍，而世族贵戚之子弟，陵迈超越，不拘资次。
悠悠风尘，皆奔竞之士，列官千百，无让贤之举。
子真著崇让而莫之省，子雅制九班而不得用。
其妇女，庄栉织纴皆取成于婢仆，未尝知女工丝枲之业，中馈酒食之事也。
先时而婚，任情而动，故皆不耻淫泆之过，不拘妒忌之恶，父兄不之罪也，天下莫之非也，又况责之闻四教于古，修贞顺于今，以辅佐君子者哉！
礼法刑政于此大坏，如水斯积而决其提防，如火斯畜而离其薪燎也。
translation: 
As a result, criticism and praise of good and evil become confused, and true feelings and good and falsehood lose their boundaries on the road of bribery and selfish desires.
Those who select talents select officials based on human sentiments, and those who hold official positions decide their own interests and trade-offs. The people in power who hold the most important positions hold dozens or even dozens of official positions at the same time.
The older one reaches the limit of respect and favor, while the younger one also holds an important position. As for the children of noble family members, they are superior to others, regardless of their seniority or rank.
In the long and dusty world, people are all competing for fame and fortune. There are hundreds of redundant officials in every position, and there is no move to give way to the worthy.
Liu Zizhen wrote "Chong Rang Lun" but no one paid attention to it. Liu Ziya formulated the system of nine classes but could not implement it.
At that time, women relied on maids to wash, dress, weave and tailor clothes. They never knew anything about female workers, nor did they know anything about cooking, wine and food.
They get married before the time comes and let their emotions lead them. Therefore, they do not consider lasciviousness and indulgence to be shameful, and they do not restrain themselves from evil behaviors such as jealousy. Their fathers and brothers do not blame them for their sins, and no one in the world criticizes them for their faults. Why should we ask them to learn the four virtues of women in ancient times and cultivate the character of chastity and test time now to assist gentlemen!
Etiquette, law, punishment, and government were completely destroyed in Japan, just as water accumulates and bursts the embankment, and fire accumulates and burns the pyre.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
国之将亡，未必先颠，其此之谓乎！
故观阮籍之行，而觉礼教崩驰之所由也。
察庾纯、贾充之争，而见师尹之多僻；考平吴之功，而知将帅之不让；思郭钦之谋，而寤戎狄之有衅；览傅玄、刘毅之言，而得百官之邪；核傅咸之奏、《钱神》之论，而睹宠赂之彰。
民风国势如此，虽以中庸之主治之，辛有必见之于祭祀，季札必得之于声乐，范燮必为之请死，贾谊必为之痛哭，又况我惠帝以放荡之德临之哉！
怀帝承乱得位，羁于强臣，愍帝奔播之后，徒厕其虚名，天下之政既去，非命世之雄才，不能取之矣！
淳耀之烈未渝，故大命重集于中宗皇帝。
赞曰：怀佩玉玺，愍居黄屋。
鰲坠三山，鲸吞九服，獯入金商，穹居未央。
圜颅尽仆，方趾咸僵。大夫反首，徙我平阳。
主忧臣哭，于何不臧！
translation: 
If a country is going to perish, its foundation must first be overthrown. This is the situation!
Therefore, by observing Ruan Ji's behavior, we can discover the reasons for the weakening of ethics and education.
Observing the conflicts between Yu Chun and Jia Chong, we can see that Minister Shi Yin has many unrighteous things; studying the military achievements of pacifying Wu, we can know that the generals were not modest; looking back at Guo Qin's strategy, we can realize that Rong Di will provoke war; listening to the remarks of Fu Xuan and Liu Yi, we can know the likes and evils of the officials; verifying Fu Xian's memorial and the discussion in "Qian Shen", we can see the behavior of favor bribery.
When the people's customs and national situation have reached this point, even if a monarch with mediocre talents and virtues who can abide by the established laws is allowed to govern, Xin You will definitely find something from the sacrifices, Jizha will definitely get inspiration from the vocal music, Fan Xie will definitely ask for death for such a situation, Jia Yi will definitely cry for such a situation, not to mention Emperor Hui's debauched virtues to rule the people and the world!
Emperor Huai succeeded to the throne in troubled times and was controlled by strong ministers; Emperor Min ruled in exile in vain; the political situation of the world was over, and if he were not an unparalleled talent, it would be impossible to conquer the world!
The great and glorious achievements of our ancestors have not been completely lost, so the power and mission given by God were added to Emperor Zhongzong Yuan.
Praise says: Emperor Huai is wearing a jade seal, and Emperor Min is sitting under the cover of a yellow carriage.
The turtle made three mountains fall, and the whale swallowed up all the places. Maowan broke into Jinshangmen, and the dome house was built in Weiyang Palace.
The common people fell, the people suffered, and the officials, with disheveled hair, followed the captured emperor to move to Pingyang.
The Lord is worried and his subjects are crying. Why is it so unfortunate!


