Summary uses chunk [4]

Chunk 4: 
original: 
十一月庚午，李傕、郭汜等追乘舆，战于东涧，王师败绩，杀光禄勋邓泉、卫尉士孙瑞、廷尉宣播、大长秋苗祀、步兵校尉魏桀、侍中朱展、射声校尉沮俊。
壬申，幸曹阳，露次田中。
杨奉、董承引白波帅胡才、李乐、韩暹及匈奴左贤王去卑，率师奉迎，与李傕等战，破之。
十二月庚辰，车驾乃进。
李傕等复来追战，王师大败，杀掠宫人，少府田芬、大司农张义等皆战殁。
进幸陕，夜度河。
乙亥，幸安邑。
是岁，袁绍遣将麹义与公孙瓒战于鲍丘，瓒军大败。
建安元年春正月癸酉，郊祀上帝于安邑，大赦天下，改元建安。
二月，韩暹攻卫将军董承。
夏六月乙未，幸闻喜。
秋七月甲子，车驾至洛阳，幸故中常侍赵忠宅。
丁丑，郊祀上帝，大赦天下。
己卯，谒太庙。
八月辛丑，幸南宫杨安殿。
癸卯，安国将军张杨为大司马，韩暹为大将军，杨奉为车骑将军。
是时，宫室烧尽，百官披荆棘，依墙壁间。
州郡各拥强兵，而委输不至，群僚饥乏，尚书郎以下自出采稆，或饥死墙壁间，或为兵士所杀。
辛亥，镇东将军曹操自领司隶校尉，录尚书事。
曹操杀侍中台崇、尚书冯硕等。
封卫将军董承为辅国将军，伏完等十三人为列侯，赠沮俊为弘农太守。
庚申，迁都许。己巳，幸曹操营。
九月，太尉杨彪、司空张喜罢。
冬十一月丙戌，曹操自为司空，行车骑将军事，百官总己以听。
二年春，袁术自称天子。
三月，袁绍自为大将军。
夏五月，蝗。
秋九月，汉水溢。
是岁饥，江淮间民相食。
袁术杀陈王宠。
孙策遣使奉贡。
三年夏四月，遣谒者裴茂率中郎将段煨讨李傕，夷三族。
吕布叛。
translation: 
On the third day of November, Li Chu, Guo Si and others chased Emperor Xian. A fight broke out in Dongjian, and Wang Shi was defeated. Guang Luxun Deng Quan, guard captain Sun Rui, Ting Lieutenant Xuanbo, Dachangqiu Miao Si, infantry captain Wei Jie, Shizhong Zhu Zhan, and Shesheng captain Ju Zi were killed.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Xian arrived in Caoyang and slept in the fields.
Yang Feng and Dong Cheng led Baibo generals Hu Cai, Li Le, Han Xian and the Xiongnu Zuoxian King to Bei, and led their troops to meet Emperor Xian. They fought with Li Chu and others, and defeated Li Chu.
In December Gengchen, Emperor Xian continued to move forward.
Li Chu and others came to pursue again, and the king's army was defeated. Li Chu and others killed the people who looted the palace, and Shaofu Tian Fen and Da Sinong Zhang Yi were all killed in the battle.
Emperor Xian marched to Shaanzhou and crossed the Yellow River at night.
In Yihai, Emperor Xian arrived at Anyi.
This year, Yuan Shao sent general Qu Yi to fight Gongsun Zan in Baoqiu, and Zan's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the first month of spring in the first year of Jian'an, he offered sacrifices to God in the suburbs of Anyi and granted amnesty to the world, changing the Yuan Dynasty to Jian'an.
In February, Bai Boshuai attacked General Dong Cheng.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Xian arrived to hear the news.
On the first day of July in autumn, Emperor Xian arrived in Luoyang and went to his hometown to serve Zhao Zhong at his residence.
On the fourteenth day, sacrifices were made to heaven in the suburbs and a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 16th, I visited the Ancestral Temple.
On the eighth day of August, Emperor Xian went to the Yang'an Hall of Nangong.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Zhang Yang, the general of Anguo, was appointed as the Grand Sima, Han Xian as the Grand General, and Yang Feng as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
At this time, the palace was burned down, and the officials cut off the thorns and lived among the walls.
The prefectures and counties each had strong soldiers, but food supplies were not transported. Many officials were hungry, and the officials below the minister went out to eat their own crops to satisfy their hunger. Some starved to death between the walls, and some were killed by the soldiers.
On August 18, Cao Cao, the general of Zhendong, took the post of Sili Xiaowei and Shangshu on his own initiative.
Cao Cao killed his servants Zhong Taichong, Shangshu Feng Shuo and others.
Dong Cheng, the general of the Wei Dynasty, was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state. Thirteen people including Fu Wan were appointed as lieutenants, and Ju Zi was given as the prefect of Hongnong.
On the 27th, the capital was moved to Xuchang, Jisi, and Emperor Xian arrived at Cao Cao's military camp.
In September, Taiwei Yang Biao and Sikong Zhangxi left.
On November 25th in winter, Cao Cao appointed himself Sikong and acting general of chariots and cavalry, and all officials obeyed him.
In the spring of the second year, Yuan Shu claimed to be the emperor.
In March, Yuan Shao appointed himself general.
In the summer of May, there was a locust plague.
In autumn and September, the Han River overflows.
There was a famine this year, and people in the Jianghuai River were cannibalistic.
Yuan Shu killed Chen Wang Liu Chong.
Sun Ce sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the summer and April of the third year, Pei Mao, the envoy, was sent to lead Duan Xuan, the general of Zhonglang, to attack Li Chu and annihilate Li Chu's father, mother and wife.
Lu Bu rebelled.

summary:
summary line 0: Xiaoxian Emperor Liu Xie, the son of Emperor Ling, ascended the throne at age nine in September 189, moving the Empress Dowager to Yong'an Palace and granting amnesty. Dong Zhuo soon killed the Empress Dowager and appointed himself Prime Minister. In 190, prefectures raised troops against Dong Zhuo, who killed the former emperor Liu Bian and moved the capital to Chang'an, burning Luoyang's palaces. Dong Zhuo destroyed five-baht coins for small coins. In 191, Dong Zhuo became Grand Master, and Sun Jian defeated his general. Dong Zhuo excavated imperial tombs. In 192, Dong Zhuo was executed, and his clan was wiped out. His generals Li Jue and Guo Si rebelled, capturing Chang'an and killing over 10,000 officials and civilians. Li Jue killed Wang Yun and others. In 193, Yuan Shu killed the Yangzhou governor and occupied Huainan. In 194, a severe drought and locust plague caused famine, with grain prices soaring and cannibalism. The emperor personally inspected relief efforts. In 195, Li Jue killed Fan Chou and fought Guo Si, forcing the emperor to flee. The emperor began his journey back to Luoyang, facing attacks from Li Jue and Guo Si, with many officials killed. In 196, the emperor arrived in Luoyang, but the palace was burned, and officials suffered from hunger. Cao Cao took control, moving the capital to Xuchang and appointing himself Sikong. In 197, Yuan Shu claimed emperorship. In 198, Cao Cao killed Lü Bu. In 199, Yuan Shao captured Gongsun Zan. In 200, Dong Cheng's plot to kill Cao Cao failed, and Cao Cao killed him. Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao at Guandu. In 207, Cao Cao defeated the Wuhuan. In 208, Cao Cao became Prime Minister, defeated Liu Biao's son, but was defeated by Sun Quan at Red Cliffs. In 213, Cao Cao became Duke of Wei. In 214, Cao Cao killed Empress Fu. In 215, Cao Cao captured Hanzhong. In 216, Cao Cao became King of Wei. In 220, Cao Cao died, and his son Cao Pi succeeded. Emperor Xian abdicated, becoming Duke of Shanyang. Liu Bei proclaimed himself emperor of Shu, and Sun Quan became king of Wu, dividing the realm into three. Emperor Xian died in 234 at age 54, buried with Han rites. Historians note that Han's decline began long before his reign, and he was a victim of his era.

