Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝献皇帝讳协，灵帝中子也。
母王美人，为何皇后所害。
中平六年四月，少帝即位，封帝为勃海王，徙封陈留王。
九月甲戌，即皇帝位，年九岁。
迁皇太后于永安宫。
大赦天下。
改昭宁为永汉。
丙子，董卓杀皇太后何氏。
初令侍中、给事黄门侍郎员各六人。
赐公卿以下至黄门侍郎家一人为郎，以补宦官所领诸署，侍于殿上。
乙酉，以太尉刘虞为大司马。
董卓自为太尉，加鈇钺、虎贲。
丙戌，太中大夫杨彪为司空。
甲午，豫州牧黄琬为司徒。
遣使吊祠故太傅陈蕃、大将军窦武等。
冬十月乙巳，葬灵思皇后。
白波贼寇河东，董卓遣其将牛辅击之。
十一月癸酉，董卓自为相国。
十二月戊戌，司徒黄琬为太尉，司空杨彪为司徒，光禄勋荀爽为司空。
省扶风都尉，置汉安都护。
诏除光熹、昭宁、永汉三号，还复中平六年。
初平元年春正月，山东州郡起兵以讨董卓。
辛亥，大赦天下。
癸酉，董卓杀弘农王。
白波贼寇东郡。
二月乙亥，太尉黄琬、司徒杨彪免。
庚辰，董卓杀城门校尉伍琼、督军校尉周珌。
以光禄勋赵谦为太尉，太仆王允为司徒。
丁亥，迁都长安。
董卓驱徙京师百姓悉西入关，自留屯毕圭苑。
壬辰，白虹贯日。
三月乙巳，车驾入长安，幸未央宫。
己酉，董卓焚洛阳宫庙及人家。
戊午，董卓杀太傅袁隗、太仆袁基，夷其族。
夏五月，司空荀爽薨。
六月辛丑，光禄大夫种拂为司空。
大鸿胪韩融、少府阴脩、执金吾胡母班、将作大匠吴脩、越骑校尉王瑰安集关东，后将军袁术、河内太守王匡各执而杀之，唯韩融获免。
董卓坏五铢钱，更铸小钱。
冬十一月庚戌，镇星、荧惑、太白合于尾。
是岁，有司奏，和、安、顺、桓四帝无功德，不宜称宗，又恭怀、敬隐、恭愍三皇后并非正嫡，不合称后，皆请除尊号。
translation: 
Xiaoxian Emperor Liu Xie, the neutron son of Emperor Ling.
Why did the queen harm the beautiful mother?
In April of the sixth year of Zhongping, the young emperor Liu Bian ascended the throne and was granted the title of King of Bohai. He was also granted the title of King of Chenliu.
On the first day of September, Liu Xie became emperor at the age of nine.
Moved the Queen Mother to Yong'an Palace.
Amnesty to the world.
Change Zhaoning to Yonghan.
On the third day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo killed the Empress Dowager He.
At the beginning, there were six servants in the palace and six servants in Huangmen.
Give the minister a person from the family of the minister of Huangmen, down to Huangmen, as a minister to supplement the offices led by the eunuchs and serve in the palace.
On September 12, Taiwei Liu Yu was appointed as Grand Sima.
Dong Zhuo appointed himself Taiwei, and added Fu Yue and Huben.
On the 13th, Yang Biao, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed Sikong.
On the 21st, Huang Wan, the shepherd of Yuzhou, was appointed as Situ.
Envoys were sent to pay homage to the late Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu.
On the third day of October in winter, Queen Lingsi was buried.
Baibo bandits raided the east of the river, and Dong Zhuo sent his general Niu Fu to attack.
On the first day of November, Dong Zhuo appointed himself Prime Minister.
In December of 1898, Situ Huang Wan was appointed Taiwei, Sikong Yang Biao was appointed Situ, and Guang Luxun Xun Shuang was appointed Sikong.
The captain of Fufeng was omitted and the captain of Han'an was set up.
The imperial edict abolished the titles of Guangxi, Zhaoning and Yonghan in the third year, and returned them to the sixth year of Zhongping.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Chuping, the prefectures and counties in Shandong raised troops to attack Dong Zhuo.
On the tenth day of the first lunar month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On the third day of February, Dong Zhuo killed Hongnong King Liu Bian.
Baibo bandits raided Dongjun.
On the fifth day of February, Taiwei Huang Wan and Situ Yang Biao were dismissed from their posts.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo killed Wu Qiong, the captain of the city gate, and Zhou Mi, the captain of the military governor.
He appointed Guang Luxun and Zhao Qian as Taiwei, and appointed his servant Wang Yun as Situ.
On February 17, the capital was moved to Chang'an.
Dong Zhuo drove all the people in the capital to move westward and entered the Pass, while he stayed in Biguiyuan.
On February 22nd, a white rainbow penetrated the sun.
On the fifth day of March, the emperor entered Chang'an and went to Weiyang Palace.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Dong Zhuo burned palaces, temples and people's homes in Luoyang.
On March 18, Dong Zhuo killed the Grand Tutor Yuan Wei and the Imperial Servant Yuan Ji, and wiped out their relatives.
In May of summer, Sikong Xunshuang passed away.
In Xinchou in June, Dr. Guanglu was appointed Sikong Fu.
Dahonglu Han Rong, Shaofu Yinxiu, Zhijinwu Hu Muban, General Wu Xiu, the great craftsman, and Yueqi captain Wang Gui'an gathered in Guandong. Later general Yuan Shu and Hanoi prefect Wang Kuang captured and killed them respectively. Only Han Rong was spared.
Dong Zhuo destroyed five baht coins and exchanged them for small coins.
On November 14th in winter, Saturn, Mars, and Venus converge in Ojuku, one of the twenty-eight constellations.
This year, the stewards requested that the three empresses He Di Mu Zong, An Di Gong Zong, Shun Di Jing Zong, and Huan Di Wei Zong have no merit and should not be called the clan; and the three empresses Gong Huai, Jing Yin, and Gong Min were not legitimate, and if they were not suitable for the title, they were all asked to have their titles revoked.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
制曰： 可。 孙坚杀荆州刺史王叡，又杀南阳太守张咨。
二年春正月辛丑，大赦天下。
二月丁丑，董卓自为太师。
袁术遣将孙坚与董卓将胡轸战于阳人，轸军大败。
董卓遂发掘洛阳诸帝陵。
夏四月，董卓入长安。
六月丙戌，地震。
秋七月，司空种拂免，光禄大夫济南淳于嘉为司空。
太尉赵谦罢，太常马日磾为太尉。
九月，蚩尤旗见于角、亢。
冬十月壬戌，董卓杀卫尉张温。
十一月，青州黄巾寇太山，太山太守应劭击破之。
黄巾转寇勃海，公孙瓒与战于东光，复大破之。
是岁，长沙有人死经月复活。
三年春正月丁丑，大赦天下。
袁术遣将孙坚攻刘表于襄阳，坚战殁。
袁绍及公孙瓒战于界桥，瓒军大败。
夏四月辛巳，诛董卓，夷三族。
司徒王允录尚书事，总朝政，遣使者张种抚慰山东。
青州黄巾击杀兖州刺史刘岱于东平。
东郡太守曹操大破黄巾于寿张，降之。
五月丁酉，大赦天下。
丁未，征西将军皇甫嵩为车骑将军。
董卓部曲将李傕、郭汜、樊稠、张济等反，攻京师。
六月戊午，陷长安城，太常种拂、太仆鲁旭、大鸿胪周奂、城门校尉崔烈、越骑校尉王颀并战殁，吏民死者万余人。
李傕等并自为将军。
己未，大赦天下。
李傕杀司隶校尉黄琬，甲子，杀司徒王允，皆灭其族。
丙子，前将军赵谦为司徒。
秋七月庚子，太尉马日磾为太傅，录尚书事。
八月，遣日磾及太仆赵岐，持节尉抚天下。
车骑将军皇甫嵩为太尉。
司徒赵谦罢。
九月，李傕自为车骑将军，郭汜后将军，樊稠右将军，张济镇东将军。
济出屯弘农。
甲申，司空淳于嘉为司徒，光禄大夫杨彪为司空，并录尚书事。
冬十二月，太尉皇甫嵩免。光禄大夫周忠为太尉，参录尚书事。
translation: 
Emperor Xian’s edict said: Yes. Sun Jian killed Wang Ruiyou, the governor of Jingzhou, and Zhang Zi, the governor of Nanyang.
On the sixth day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On February 12, Dong Zhuo appointed himself Grand Master.
Yuan Shu sent general Sun Jian to fight Dong Zhuo's general Hu Zhen in Yangren, and Hu Zhen's army was severely defeated.
Dong Zhuo then excavated the tombs of emperors in Luoyang.
In the fourth month of summer, Dong Zhuo entered Chang'an.
June 23, earthquake.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Zhongfu was dismissed from his post, and Chunyu Jia of Jinan, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as Sikong.
Taiwei Zhao Qian resigned and appointed Taichang Ma Rishidan as Taiwei.
In September, Chi You, who is like a comet and then curves like a flag, with yellow upper part and white lower part, appears in the corner of the twenty-eight constellations.
On the first day of October in winter, Dong Zhuo killed the guard Zhang Wen.
In November, the Qingzhou Yellow Turban Army raided Taishan, and the Taishan Prefect Ying Shao defeated them.
The Yellow Turban Army turned around and raided Bohai. Gongsun Zan fought with them in Dongguang and defeated them severely.
This year, someone died in Changsha and was resurrected after a month.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Ding Chou issued a general amnesty to the whole world.
Yuan Shu sent general Sun Jian to attack Liu Biao in Xiangyang, and Sun Jian died in the battle.
Yuan Shao and Gongsun Zan fought at Jieqiao, and Gongsun Zan's army was defeated.
On April 23rd in summer, Dong Zhuo was executed, and his father, mother, and wife clans were wiped out.
Situ Wangyun acted as the Secretary, took charge of the government affairs, and sent envoy Zhang Zhong to appease and comfort the people in Shandong area.
The Qingzhou Yellow Turban Army killed Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, in Dongping.
Cao Cao, the governor of Dongjun, defeated the Yellow Turban Army in Shouzhang and forced them to surrender.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month, there is a general amnesty.
On May 20th, Huangfu Song, the general who conquered the west, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
Dong Zhuo's generals Li Chu, Guo Si, Fan Chou, Zhang Ji and others rebelled and attacked the capital.
On the first day of June, Chang'an City was captured. Taichang Zhongfu, Taipu Lu Xu, Taihong Lu and Zhou Huan, Chengmen Colonel Cui Lie, and Yueqi Colonel Wang Qi all died in the battle. More than 10,000 officials and civilians died.
Li Chu and others all called themselves generals.
On the second day of June, there is a general amnesty.
Li Chu killed Huang Wan, the captain of Sili School. On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, Situ Wang Yun was killed; Huang Wan and Wang Yun were both exterminated.
On June 19, former general Zhao Qian was appointed as Situ.
On the 13th day of the seventh month in the autumn, Taiwei Ma Rishidan was appointed as Taifu, acting as Shangshu.
In August, Ma Rishishan and his servant Zhao Qi were sent to hold talismans to express condolences and appease the world.
He appointed Chariot and Cavalry General Huangfu Song as Taiwei.
Situ Zhao Qian leaves.
In September, Li Chu appointed himself General of Chariots and Cavalry, Guo Si as General of the Rear, Fan Chou as General of the Right, and Zhang Ji as General of Zhendong.
Zhang Ji left the capital and was stationed in Hongnong.
On September 29, Sikong Chunyujia was appointed as Situ, and Guanglu doctor Yang Biao was appointed as Sikong and acted as minister.
In December of winter, the Taiwei Huangfusong was dismissed from his post, and Zhou Zhong, the Guanglu doctor, was appointed as the Taiwei and participated in the affairs of the general secretary.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
四年春正月甲寅朔，日有食之。丁卯，大赦天下。
三月，袁术杀杨州刺史陈温，据淮南。
长安宣平城门外屋自坏。
夏五月癸酉，无云而雷。
六月，扶风大风，雨雹。
华山崩裂。
太尉周忠免，太仆朱俊为太尉，录尚书事。
下邳贼阙宣自称天子。
雨水。
遣侍御史裴茂讯诏狱，原轻系。
六月辛丑，天狗西北行。
九月甲午，试儒生四十余人，上第赐位郎中，次太子舍人，下第者罢之。
诏曰： 孔子叹 学之不讲 ，不讲则所识日忘。
今耆儒年逾六十，去离本土，营求粮资，不得专业。
结童入学，白首空归，长委农野，永绝荣望，朕甚愍焉。
其依科罢者，听为太子舍人。
冬十月，太学行礼，车驾幸永福城门，临观其仪，赐博士以下各有差。
辛丑，京师地震。
有星孛于天市。
司空杨彪免，太常赵温为司空。
公孙瓒杀大司马刘虞。
十二月辛丑，地震。
司空赵温免，乙巳，卫尉张喜为司空。
是岁，琅邪王容薨。
兴平元年春正月辛酉，大赦天下，改元兴平。
甲子，帝加元服。
二月壬午，追尊谥皇妣王氏为灵怀皇后，甲申，改葬于文昭陵。
丁亥，帝耕于藉田。
三月，韩遂、马腾与郭汜、樊稠战于长平观，遂、腾败绩，左中郎将刘范、前益州刺史种劭战殁。
夏六月丙子，分凉州河西四郡为廱州。
丁丑，地震；戊寅，又震。
乙巳晦，日有食之，帝避正殿，寝兵，不听事五日。
大蝗。
秋七月壬子，太尉朱俊免。
戊午，太常杨彪为太尉，录尚书事。
三辅大旱，自四月至于是月。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse. On the fourteenth day of the first lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In March, Yuan Shu killed Chen Wen, the governor of Yangzhou, and occupied Huainan.
The outhouse of Xuanping City Gate in Chang'an collapsed on its own.
On May 22nd in the summer, there was no cloud but thunder.
In June, strong winds and hail fell in the Fufeng area.
Huashan collapsed.
Taiwei Zhou Zhong was dismissed from his post, and his servant Zhu Jun was appointed as Taiwei to act as minister.
Quexuan, a bandit from Xiapi, claimed to be the emperor.
Lots of rain.
Pei Mao, the imperial censor, was sent to interrogate the prisoners imprisoned under the imperial edict, and to pardon those detained for misdemeanors.
On June 20th, the star Tengu moves northwest.
In the ninth month of the ninth lunar month, there were more than 40 Confucian scholars in the program of selecting scholars by subject. The higher rankings were awarded the title of doctor, the lower rankings were awarded the title of prince, and the lower rankings were given away without any arrangement.
The imperial edict said: Confucius lamented that if he did not study academics, he would forget the knowledge he knew day by day.
Nowadays, the old Confucian scholars are over sixty years old. They have left their hometowns to make a living and cannot engage in specialized careers.
I have pity and sympathy for them when they were married in childhood and went to school empty-handed in old age.
Those who fail in the examination will be accepted as princes.
In the winter of October, a ceremony was held at Taixue. Emperor Xian went to the gate of Yongfu City to watch the ceremony in person. He rewarded the doctor with the following money and materials.
On October 22, there was an earthquake in the capital.
Comet appears in Tianshi star.
Sikong Yang Biao was dismissed and Taichang Zhao Wen was appointed as Sikong.
Gongsun Zan killed the Grand Sima Liu Yu.
December 23, earthquake.
Sikong Zhao Wen was dismissed, and on December 27, Weiwei Zhang happy was appointed as Sikong.
In this year, Langyi King Liu Rong passed away.
On the thirteenth day of the first spring month of the first year of Xingping, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Xingping.
On the 16th, the emperor crowned him.
On the fifth day of the second lunar month, the imperial concubine Wang was posthumously honored as Queen Linghuai. On the seventh day of the second lunar month, she was buried in Wenzhao Mausoleum.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the emperor plowed the fields.
In March, Han Sui and Ma Teng fought with Guo Si and Fan Chou at Changpingguan. Han Sui and Ma Teng failed. Liu Fan, the general of Zuo Zhonglang, and Zhongshao, the former governor of Yizhou, were killed in the battle.
On the first day of June in summer, the four counties of Liangzhou and Hexi were divided into Yingzhou.
On the second day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake; on the third day of the lunar month, there was another earthquake.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. The emperor did not enter the main hall, did not use weapons, and ignored the government for five days.
Great locust plague.
On the seventh day of July in autumn, Captain Zhu Jun was dismissed from his post.
On the 13th, Taichang Yang Biao was appointed as Taiwei, acting as Shangshu.
There is a severe drought in Sanfu area from April to July.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
帝避正殿请雨，遣使者洗囚徒，原轻系。
是时谷一斛五十万，豆麦一斛二十万，人相食啖，白骨委积。
帝使侍御史侯汶出太仓米豆，为饥人作糜粥，经日而死者无降。
帝疑赋恤有虚，乃亲于御坐前量试作糜，乃知非实，使侍中刘艾出让有司。
于是尚书令以上皆诣省阁谢，奏收侯汶考实。
诏曰： 未忍致汶于理，可杖五十。 自是之后，多得全济。
八月，冯翊羌叛，寇属县，郭汜、樊稠击破之。
九月，桑复生椹，人得以食。
司徒淳于嘉罢。
冬十月，长安市门自坏。
以卫尉赵温为司徒，录尚书事。
十二月，分安定、扶风为新平郡。
是岁，杨州刺史刘繇与袁术将孙策战于曲阿，繇军败绩，孙策遂据江东。
太傅马日磾薨于寿春。
二年春正月癸丑，大赦天下。
二月乙亥，李傕杀樊稠而与郭汜相攻。
三月丙寅，李傕胁帝幸其营，焚宫室。
夏四月甲午，立贵人伏氏为皇后。
丁酉，郭汜攻李傕，矢及御前。
是日，李傕移帝幸北坞。
大旱。
五月壬午，李傕自为大司马。
六月庚午，张济自陕来和傕、汜。
秋七月甲子，车驾东归。
郭汜自为车骑将军，杨定为后将军，杨奉为兴义将军，董承为安集将军，并侍送乘舆。
张济为票骑将军，还屯陕。
八月甲辰，幸新丰。
冬十月戊戌，郭汜使其将伍习夜烧所幸学舍，逼胁乘舆。
杨定、杨奉与郭汜战，破之。
壬寅，幸华阴，露次道南。
是夜，有赤气贯紫宫。
张济复反，与李傕、郭汜合。
translation: 
The emperor went into the main hall to worship the sky and pray for rain, and sent envoys to clean up and examine the prisoners, and to forgive the minor criminals in custody.
At this time, a handful of grain cost 500,000 yuan, and a handful of beans and wheat cost 200,000 yuan. People were so hungry that they ate people, and their bones were piled up everywhere.
The emperor sent Hou Wen, the imperial censor, to take out the rice and beans from Taicang, the capital, and give rice porridge to the hungry people, but the number of dead among the hungry people was not reduced after many days.
The emperor suspected that the relief was false, so he personally measured the rice and beans in front of his seat and tried to make rice porridge. As a result, he found that the quality and quantity of Hou Wen's rice porridge were not real. Liu Ai, one of the servants, was sent to question the person in charge.
Therefore, the minister ordered the following officials to go to the Provincial Central Government Office to admit their mistakes, and asked Hou Wen to be arrested for investigation and verification.
The emperor issued an edict saying: If Hou Wen cannot bear to be tried by the prison officer, he will be punished with fifty canes. From then on, most of the hungry people received full relief.
In August, Feng Yiqiang rebelled and invaded the subordinate county. Guo Si and Fan Chou defeated them.
In September, the mulberry trees grow again and people can eat.
Situ Chun left in Jia.
In October of winter, the city gate of Chang'an collapsed on its own.
Wei Wei Zhao Wen was appointed as Situ to act as the minister.
In December, Anding and Fufeng were divided into Xinping counties.
In this year, Yangzhou governor Liu Yao fought with Yuan Shu's general Sun Ce in Qu'a. Liu Yao was defeated and Sun Ce occupied Jiangdong.
Taifu Ma Rishidan passed away in Shouchun.
On the eleventh day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
On the third day of February, Li Ju killed Fan Chou and attacked Guo Si.
On March 25, Li Chu forced Emperor Xian to go to his military camp and burn the palace.
On April 23rd in the summer, Emperor Xian made the noble Fu Shi his queen.
On April 26, Guo Si attacked Li Chu and shot an arrow in front of the tall building where Emperor Xian lived.
On this day, Li Chu moved Emperor Xian to Beiwu.
A major drought occurs.
On Renwu in the fifth month, Li Ju became the Grand Sima.
On the Gengwu day of June, Zhang Ji came to Chang'an from Shaanxi to persuade Li Ju and Guo Si to make peace and stop attacking each other.
In the autumn of the seventh month, Emperor Xian set out from Chang'an to return to Luoyang.
Guo Si appointed himself General of Chariots and Cavalry, Yang Ding as General of the Rear, Yang Feng as General of Xingyi, Dong Cheng as General of Anji, and together they served Emperor Xian.
Zhang Ji was a hussar general and was still stationed in Shaanxi after his return.
On the sixth day of August, Emperor Xian arrived at Xinfeng.
On the first day of October in winter, Guo Si sent his general Wu Xi to burn down the school building where Emperor Xian lived at night. Forced and threatened Xiandi.
Yang Ding and Yang Feng fought with Guo Si, and Guo Si was defeated.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Xian arrived in Huayin and slept in the south of the avenue.
This night, there is a red air band crossing the purple palace constellation.
Zhang Ji returned and joined forces with Li Chu and Guo Si.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十一月庚午，李傕、郭汜等追乘舆，战于东涧，王师败绩，杀光禄勋邓泉、卫尉士孙瑞、廷尉宣播、大长秋苗祀、步兵校尉魏桀、侍中朱展、射声校尉沮俊。
壬申，幸曹阳，露次田中。
杨奉、董承引白波帅胡才、李乐、韩暹及匈奴左贤王去卑，率师奉迎，与李傕等战，破之。
十二月庚辰，车驾乃进。
李傕等复来追战，王师大败，杀掠宫人，少府田芬、大司农张义等皆战殁。
进幸陕，夜度河。
乙亥，幸安邑。
是岁，袁绍遣将麹义与公孙瓒战于鲍丘，瓒军大败。
建安元年春正月癸酉，郊祀上帝于安邑，大赦天下，改元建安。
二月，韩暹攻卫将军董承。
夏六月乙未，幸闻喜。
秋七月甲子，车驾至洛阳，幸故中常侍赵忠宅。
丁丑，郊祀上帝，大赦天下。
己卯，谒太庙。
八月辛丑，幸南宫杨安殿。
癸卯，安国将军张杨为大司马，韩暹为大将军，杨奉为车骑将军。
是时，宫室烧尽，百官披荆棘，依墙壁间。
州郡各拥强兵，而委输不至，群僚饥乏，尚书郎以下自出采稆，或饥死墙壁间，或为兵士所杀。
辛亥，镇东将军曹操自领司隶校尉，录尚书事。
曹操杀侍中台崇、尚书冯硕等。
封卫将军董承为辅国将军，伏完等十三人为列侯，赠沮俊为弘农太守。
庚申，迁都许。己巳，幸曹操营。
九月，太尉杨彪、司空张喜罢。
冬十一月丙戌，曹操自为司空，行车骑将军事，百官总己以听。
二年春，袁术自称天子。
三月，袁绍自为大将军。
夏五月，蝗。
秋九月，汉水溢。
是岁饥，江淮间民相食。
袁术杀陈王宠。
孙策遣使奉贡。
三年夏四月，遣谒者裴茂率中郎将段煨讨李傕，夷三族。
吕布叛。
translation: 
On the third day of November, Li Chu, Guo Si and others chased Emperor Xian. A fight broke out in Dongjian, and Wang Shi was defeated. Guang Luxun Deng Quan, guard captain Sun Rui, Ting Lieutenant Xuanbo, Dachangqiu Miao Si, infantry captain Wei Jie, Shizhong Zhu Zhan, and Shesheng captain Ju Zi were killed.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Xian arrived in Caoyang and slept in the fields.
Yang Feng and Dong Cheng led Baibo generals Hu Cai, Li Le, Han Xian and the Xiongnu Zuoxian King to Bei, and led their troops to meet Emperor Xian. They fought with Li Chu and others, and defeated Li Chu.
In December Gengchen, Emperor Xian continued to move forward.
Li Chu and others came to pursue again, and the king's army was defeated. Li Chu and others killed the people who looted the palace, and Shaofu Tian Fen and Da Sinong Zhang Yi were all killed in the battle.
Emperor Xian marched to Shaanzhou and crossed the Yellow River at night.
In Yihai, Emperor Xian arrived at Anyi.
This year, Yuan Shao sent general Qu Yi to fight Gongsun Zan in Baoqiu, and Zan's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the first month of spring in the first year of Jian'an, he offered sacrifices to God in the suburbs of Anyi and granted amnesty to the world, changing the Yuan Dynasty to Jian'an.
In February, Bai Boshuai attacked General Dong Cheng.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Xian arrived to hear the news.
On the first day of July in autumn, Emperor Xian arrived in Luoyang and went to his hometown to serve Zhao Zhong at his residence.
On the fourteenth day, sacrifices were made to heaven in the suburbs and a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 16th, I visited the Ancestral Temple.
On the eighth day of August, Emperor Xian went to the Yang'an Hall of Nangong.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Zhang Yang, the general of Anguo, was appointed as the Grand Sima, Han Xian as the Grand General, and Yang Feng as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
At this time, the palace was burned down, and the officials cut off the thorns and lived among the walls.
The prefectures and counties each had strong soldiers, but food supplies were not transported. Many officials were hungry, and the officials below the minister went out to eat their own crops to satisfy their hunger. Some starved to death between the walls, and some were killed by the soldiers.
On August 18, Cao Cao, the general of Zhendong, took the post of Sili Xiaowei and Shangshu on his own initiative.
Cao Cao killed his servants Zhong Taichong, Shangshu Feng Shuo and others.
Dong Cheng, the general of the Wei Dynasty, was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state. Thirteen people including Fu Wan were appointed as lieutenants, and Ju Zi was given as the prefect of Hongnong.
On the 27th, the capital was moved to Xuchang, Jisi, and Emperor Xian arrived at Cao Cao's military camp.
In September, Taiwei Yang Biao and Sikong Zhangxi left.
On November 25th in winter, Cao Cao appointed himself Sikong and acting general of chariots and cavalry, and all officials obeyed him.
In the spring of the second year, Yuan Shu claimed to be the emperor.
In March, Yuan Shao appointed himself general.
In the summer of May, there was a locust plague.
In autumn and September, the Han River overflows.
There was a famine this year, and people in the Jianghuai River were cannibalistic.
Yuan Shu killed Chen Wang Liu Chong.
Sun Ce sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the summer and April of the third year, Pei Mao, the envoy, was sent to lead Duan Xuan, the general of Zhonglang, to attack Li Chu and annihilate Li Chu's father, mother and wife.
Lu Bu rebelled.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
冬十一月，盗杀大司马张杨。
十二月癸酉，曹操击吕布于徐州，斩之。
四年春三月，袁绍攻公孙瓒于易京，获之。
卫将军董承为车骑将军。
夏六月，袁术死。
是岁，初置尚书左右仆射。
武陵女子死十四日复活。
五年春正月，车骑将军董承、偏将军王服、越骑校尉种辑受密诏诛曹操，事泄。
壬午，曹操杀董承等，夷三族。
秋七月，立皇子冯为南阳王。
壬午，南阳王冯薨。
九月庚午朔，日有食之。
诏三公举至孝二人，九卿、校尉、郡国守、相各一人。
皆上封事，靡有所讳。
曹操与袁绍战于官度，绍败走。
冬十月辛亥，有星孛于大梁。
东海王祗薨。
是岁，孙策死，弟权袭其余业。
六年春二月丁卯朔，日有食之。七年夏五月庚戌，袁绍薨。
于窴国献驯象。
是岁，越巂男子化为女子。
八年冬十月己巳，公卿初迎冬于北郊，总章始复务八佾舞。
初置司直官，督中都官。
九年秋八月戊寅，曹操大破袁尚，平冀州，自领冀州牧。
冬十月，有星孛于东井。
十二月，赐三公已下金、帛，各有差。自是三年一赐，以为常制。
十年春正月，曹操破袁谭于青州，斩之。
夏四月，墨山贼张燕率众降。
秋九月，赐百官尤贫者金、帛，各有差。
十一年春正月，有星孛于北斗。
三月，曹操破高幹于并州，获之。
秋七月，武威太守张猛杀雍州刺史邯郸商。
是岁，立故琅邪王容子熙为琅邪王。
齐、北海、阜陵、下邳、常山、甘陵、济北、平原八国皆除。
十二年秋八月，曹操大破乌桓于柳城，斩其蹋顿。
冬十月辛卯，有星孛于鹑尾。
乙巳，黄巾贼杀济南王赟。
十一月，辽东太守公孙康杀袁尚、袁熙。
十三年春正月，司徒赵温免。
translation: 
In November of winter, thieves killed the great Sima Zhang Yang.
On December 24, Cao Cao attacked Lu Bu in Xuzhou and killed him.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, Yuan Shao attacked Gongsun Zan in Yijing and captured him.
General Dong Cheng of Wei was appointed general of chariots and cavalry.
In June of summer, Yuan Shu died.
This year, the ministers began to set up left and right servants.
Li E, a woman from Wuling, died for fourteen days and was resurrected.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the cavalry general Dong Cheng, the partial general Wang Fu, and the Yue cavalry captain Zhong Ji received a secret edict from Emperor Xian to kill Cao Cao, and the incident was leaked.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Cao Cao killed Dong Cheng and others, destroying his father, mother, and wife clans.
In the seventh month of autumn, Prince Liu Feng was made King of Nanyang.
On the 12th, Nanyang King Liu Feng passed away.
On the first day of September, there is a solar eclipse.
Emperor Xian ordered the Three Dukes to recommend two people who were of the highest filial piety, and the Jiuqing, Xiaowei, and Prime Minister each recommended one person.
They are all secretly submitting letters to state their interests in government affairs, and there should be no taboos.
Cao Cao and Yuan Shao fought in Guandu, and Yuan Shao was defeated and fled.
On October 12th in winter, the comet appeared in Daliangxing.
Liu Zhi, King of East China Sea, passed away.
This year, Sun Ce passed away, and his younger brother Sun Quan inherited the business he left behind.
In the spring of the sixth year, on the first day of the second lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. On May 21, in the summer of the seventh year, Yuan Shao passed away.
He contributed domesticated elephants to the country.
This year, Vietnamese men transformed into women.
In October of the eighth year of winter, Gongqing welcomed the winter solstice for the first time in the northern suburbs, and the Music Officer General Chapter began to resume the Eight Yi Dance.
For the first time, direct officials were set up to supervise Zhongdu officials.
On the second day of August in the ninth year of autumn, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shang, pacified Jizhou, and took charge of Jizhou's pastoralist.
In October in winter, the comet appears in Dongjingxing.
In December, rewards of gold and silk were given to the three princes and below. From then on, the reward was given once every three years, which became a regular system.
In the first month of the spring of the tenth year, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Tan in Qingzhou and killed him.
In April of summer, the Black Mountain bandit Zhang Yan led his troops to surrender.
In the autumn and ninth month, the particularly poor among the officials were given gold and silk in varying amounts.
In the first month of spring of the eleventh year, a comet appeared in the Big Dipper.
In March, Cao Cao defeated Gao Gan in Bingzhou and captured him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhang Meng, the governor of Wuwei, killed Handan merchants, the governor of Yongzhou.
In this year, Liu Rongzi Liu Xi, the deceased king of Langji, was established as the king of Langji.
The eight feudal states of Qi, Beihai, Fuling, Xiapi, Changshan, Ganling, Jibei and Pingyuan were revoked.
In the autumn and August of the twelfth year, Cao Cao defeated Wuhuan in Liucheng and beheaded his king Tadun.
On the third day of October in winter, the comet appeared in the Quail's Tail star.
On the 17th, Yellow Turban thieves killed Jinan King Liu Binbei.
In November, Gongsun Kang, the governor of Liaodong, killed Yuan Shang and Yuan Zhao.
In the first month of the spring of the thirteenth year, Situ Zhao Wen was dismissed from office.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
夏六月，罢三公官，置丞相、御史大夫。
癸巳，曹操自为丞相。
秋七月，曹操南征刘表。
八月丁未，光禄勋郗虑为御史大夫。
壬子，曹操杀太中大夫孔融，夷其族。
是月，刘表卒，少子琮立，琮以荆州降操。
冬十月癸未朔，日有食之。
曹操以舟师伐孙权，权将周瑜败之于乌林、赤壁。
十四年冬十月，荆州地震。
十五年春二月乙巳朔，日有食之。
十六年秋九月庚戌，曹操与韩遂、马超战于渭南，遂等大败，关西平。
是岁，赵王赦薨。
十七年夏五月癸未，诛卫尉马腾，夷三族。
六月庚寅晦，日有食之。秋七月，洧水、颍水溢。
螟。
八月，马超破凉州，杀刺史韦康。
九月庚戌，立皇子熙为济阴王，懿为山阳王，为济北王，敦为东海王。
冬十二月，星孛于五诸侯。
十八年春正月庚寅，复《禹贡》九州。
夏五月丙申，曹操自立为魏公，加九锡。
大雨水。
徙赵王珪为博陵王。
是岁，岁星、镇星、荧惑俱入太微。
彭城王和薨。
十九年夏四月，旱。
五月，雨水。
刘备破刘璋，据益州。
冬十月，曹操遣将夏侯渊讨宋建于枹罕，获之。
十一月丁卯，曹操杀皇后伏氏，灭其族及二皇子。
二十年春正月甲子，立贵人曹氏为皇后。
赐天下男子爵，人一级，孝悌、力田二级。
赐诸王侯公卿以下谷，各有差。
秋七月，曹操破汉中，张鲁降。
二十一年夏四月甲午，曹操自进号魏王。
五月己亥朔，日有食之。秋七月，匈奴南单于来朝。
是岁，曹操杀琅邪王熙，国除。
二十二年夏六月，丞相军师华歆为御史大夫。
冬，有星孛于东北。
是岁大疫。
translation: 
In the sixth month of summer, the three public officials were dismissed and the prime minister and censor were appointed.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Cao Cao appointed himself prime minister.
In the seventh month of autumn, Cao Cao marched south to conquer Liu Biao.
On August 24, Guang Luxun and hope Yanli were appointed as censors.
On the 29th, Cao Cao killed Kong Rong, the Taizhong official, and wiped out his relatives.
This month, Liu Biao died and his youngest son Liu Cong was established. Liu Cong surrendered Jingzhou to Cao Cao.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Cao Cao led the navy to conquer Sun Quan, and Sun Quan's general Zhou Yu defeated Cao Cao in Wulin and Chibi.
In the winter of October of the 14th year, there was an earthquake in Jingzhou.
On the first day of the second lunar month in the spring of the fifteenth year, there was a solar eclipse.
On September 15, in the autumn of the 16th year, Cao Cao fought with Han Sui and Ma Chao in Weinan. Han Sui and others were defeated and Guanxi was pacified.
This year, King Zhao Liu She passed away.
In the summer of the 17th year, in the fifth month of Guiwei, Ma Teng, the Weiwei Lieutenant, was executed, and his father, mother, and wife clans were exterminated.
June 29th, solar eclipse. In autumn, in July, the Jishui and Yingshui rivers overflow.
Locust plague.
In August, Ma Chao captured Liangzhou and killed Wei Kang, the assassin.
On September 21st, the prince Liu Xi was made the King of Jiyin, Liu Yi was the King of Shanyang, Liu was the King of Jibei, and Liu Dun was the King of the East China Sea.
In the twelfth month of winter, the comet appeared in the Five Princes Star.
On the third day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 18th year, the names of Yan, Yu, Qing, Xu, Jing, Yang, Yong, Yi, and Ji Jiuzhou in "Yu Gong" were restored.
On the tenth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Cao Cao established himself as Wei Gong and added Jiuxi.
It rained heavily.
King Liu Wanggui of Zhao was transferred to King Boling.
This year, Suixing, Zhenxing, and Yinghuo three stars entered the Taiwei Star Wall.
Liu He, King of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the nineteenth year, in the summer of April, a drought occurred.
In May, there is a lot of rain.
Liu Bei defeated Liu Zhang. Occupied Yizhou.
In October of winter, Cao Cao sent general Xia Houyuan to attack Song Jian in Mubaohan and captured Song Jian.
On November 20th, Cao Cao killed Queen Fu and destroyed her family and two princes.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 20th year, the noble Cao family was made queen.
Grant the title of nobility to the men in the world, each one is one level; the three elders, filial piety, and Li Tian are each two level.
The princes, princes and ministers are given the following valleys, each of which is different.
In the seventh month of autumn, Cao Cao captured Hanzhong and Zhang Lu surrendered.
On April 25, in the summer of the 21st year, Cao Cao promoted himself as King of Wei.
On the first day of May, there is a solar eclipse. In autumn and July, the Xiongnu Nan Chanyu came to worship.
In this year, Cao Cao killed Liu Xi, the king of Langfu, and the feudal state was revoked.
In the summer and June of the 22nd year, Hua Xin, the prime minister's military advisor, became the censor.
In winter, comets appear in the northeast.
There was a pandemic this year.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
二十三年春正月甲子，少府耿纪、丞相司直韦晃起兵诛曹操，不克，夷三族。
三月，有星孛于东方。
二十四年春二月壬子晦，日有食之。
夏五月，刘备取汉中。
秋七月庚子，刘备自称汉中王。
八月，汉水溢。
冬十一月，孙权取荆州。
二十五年春正月庚子，魏王曹操薨。
子丕袭位。
二月丁未朔，日有食之。三月，改元延康。
冬十月乙卯，皇帝逊位，魏王丕称天子。
奉帝为山阳公，邑一万户，位在诸侯王上，奏事不称臣，受诏不拜，以天子车服郊祀天地，宗庙、祖、腊皆如汉制，都山阳之浊鹿城。
四皇子封王者，皆降为列侯。
明年，刘备称帝于蜀，孙权亦自王于吴，于是天下遂三分矣。
魏青龙二年三月庚寅，山阳公薨。自逊位至薨，十有四年，年五十四，谥孝献皇帝。
八月壬申，以汉天子礼仪葬于禅陵，置园邑令丞。
太子早卒，孙康立五十一年，晋太康六年薨。
子瑾立四年，太康十年薨。
子秋立二十年，永嘉中为胡贼所杀，国除。
论曰：传称鼎之为器，虽小而重，故神之所宝，不可夺移。
至令负而趋者，此亦穷运之归乎！
天厌汉德久矣，山阳其何诛焉！
赞曰：献生不辰，身播国屯。
终我四百，永作虞宾。
translation: 
On the sixth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 23rd year, Shaofu Geng Ji and Prime Minister Sizhi Weihuang launched an army to kill Cao Cao. He failed and was wiped out, including his father, mother and wife.
In March, the comet appears in the east.
On February 30, spring of the twenty-fourth year, there was a solar eclipse.
In the fifth month of summer, Liu Bei captured Hanzhong.
In the seventh month of autumn, Gengzi, Liu Bei claimed to be the King of Hanzhong.
In August, the Han River overflows.
In November of winter, Sun Quan captured Jingzhou.
On the 23rd of the first month of the spring of the twenty-fifth year, King Cao Cao of Wei passed away.
His son Cao Pi succeeded to the throne.
On the first day of February, there was a solar eclipse. In March, it was changed to Yankang.
On October 13th in winter, Emperor Xian abdicated and King Cao Pi of Wei became emperor.
Emperor Xian was granted the title Duke of Shanyang, with a fiefdom of 10,000 households, and his status was higher than that of the princes and kings. He refused to submit to Wei Emperor Cao Pi's duties, and did not kneel down when receiving Wei Emperor's orders. He worshiped heaven and earth in the suburbs with the emperor's chariots and costumes. The Han Dynasty's ancestral temples, ancestral tombs, and sacrifices in the twelfth lunar month were all according to the Han Dynasty system. The capital was built in Zhuolu City, Shanyang.
The four princes Liu Xi, Liu Yi, Liu and Liu Dun who were granted the title of king were all demoted to the rank of marquis.
The next year, Liu Bei proclaimed himself emperor of Shu, and Sun Quan also claimed to be king of Wu, so the world became divided into three parts: Wei, Shu, and Wu.
On the sixth day of March in the second year of Wei Qinglong, Duke Shanyang abdicated one by one and died of Han Xian Emperor Liu Xie. It took a total of fourteen years from abdication to death. At the age of fifty-four, he was given the posthumous title of Emperor Xiaoxian.
On August 20, he was buried in the Zen Mausoleum of Xiuwu County, Huaizhou with the rites of the Emperor of the Han Dynasty. A residential area was set up to guard the cemetery, and officials were appointed to manage the cemetery.
The eldest son of Emperor Xian died early, his grandson Liu Kang was in his fiftieth year, and Emperor Wu of Jin died in the sixth year of Taikang.
Liu Kangzi and Liu Jin were established for four years, and Taikang died in the tenth year of his reign.
In the 21st year of Liu Qiuli's reign, Liu Jinzi, Emperor Huai of Jin Dynasty Yongjiazhong was killed by barbarians, and the feudal state was revoked.
Historians commented: "The Biography of the Zuo Family" states that the tripod is a sacred tool passed down to the country. Although it is small but heavy, it is a treasure of the gods and cannot be taken away.
If the royal family does not build it, evil spirits are rampant, and although the divine tripod is large but light, and people carry it on their backs, this will be the time when the country's destiny is exhausted and cannot be revived.
Since the time of Emperor He of the Han Dynasty, politics and religion have been gradually lost, and the world has long hated Han virtues. How can this disaster be completely pushed to Xian Emperor Shan Yanggong and blame him alone?
Historians praise: Emperor Xian was born at the wrong time, he was displaced, and the country suffered.
The Han family's four hundred years of rule over the world were finally lost in his hands, and he could only be a guest of Wei Emperor Cao Pi, just like Emperor Yao's son Danzhu was a guest of Emperor Shun.


