Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝文皇帝四男：窦皇后生孝景帝、梁孝王武，诸姬生代孝王参、梁怀王揖。
梁孝王武以孝文二年与太原王参、梁王揖同日立。
武为代王，四年徙为淮阳王，十二年徙梁，自初王通历已十一年矣。
孝王十四年，入朝。
十七年、十八年，比年入朝，留。其明年，乃之国。
二十一年，入朝。
二十二年，文帝崩。
二十四年，入朝。
二十五年，复入朝。
是时，上未置太子，与孝王宴饮，从容言曰： 千秋万岁后传于王。
王辞谢。
虽知非至言，然心内喜。
太后亦然。
其春，吴、楚、齐、赵七国反，先击梁棘壁，杀数万人。
梁王城守睢阳，而使韩安国、张羽等为将军以距吴、楚。
吴、楚以梁为限，不敢过而西，与太尉亚夫等相距三月。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowen had four sons: Empress Dou gave birth to Emperor Xiaojing and King Xiao of Liang Wang Wu, and Zhu Ji gave birth to Prince Xiao Shen and King Huai of Liang Yi.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Liang Xiaowang Liu Wu was crowned king on the same day as Taiyuan Wang Liu Shen and Liang Wang Liu Yi.
Liu Wu was first granted the title of King of Dai. In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaowen, he was transferred to the title of King of Huaiyang. In the twelfth year of Emperor Xiaowen, Liu Wu was transferred to the Kingdom of Liang. From the initial appointment, he was the king for a total of eleven years.
In the fourteenth year of King Xiao's reign, Liu Wu entered the court.
In the 17th and 18th years, he entered the DPRK one after another and stayed in the capital. He returned to China in the second year.
He entered the DPRK again in the twenty-first year.
In the twenty-second year, Emperor Wen died.
Entered the DPRK in the twenty-fourth year.
Twenty-five years later, he entered the DPRK again.
At that time, the emperor had not decided on the crown prince, so he casually said while having a banquet with Xiao Wang Liu Wu: I will pass the throne to you after my death.
King Xiao resigned.
Although King Xiao knew that what the emperor said was not true, he was very happy.
The same is true for the Queen Mother.
In the spring of this year, the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Tang rebelled. They first attacked Liang Guo Jibi and killed tens of thousands of people.
Liang Wang Liu Wu stayed in Suiyang and sent Han Anguo, Zhang Yu and others as generals to fight against Wu and Chu.
Wu and Chu were stopped by Liang Guo and did not dare to go westward. They faced off with Taiwei Zhou Yafu and others for three months.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吴、楚破，而梁所杀虏略与汉中分。
明年，汉立太子。
梁最亲，有功，又为大国，居天下膏腴地，北界泰山，西至高阳，四十余城，多大县。
孝王，太后少子，爱之，赏赐不可胜道。
于是孝王筑东苑，方三百余里，广睢阳城七十里，大治宫室，为复道，自宫连属于平台三十余里。
得赐天子旌旗，从千乘万骑，出称警，入言跸，拟于天子。
招延四方豪桀，自山东游士莫不至：齐人羊胜、公孙诡、邹阳之属。
公孙诡多奇邪计，初见日，王赐千金，官至中尉，号曰公孙将军。
多作兵弩弓数十万，而府库金钱且百巨万，珠玉宝器多于京师。
二十九年十月，孝王入朝。
景帝使使持乘舆驷，迎梁王于关下。
既朝，上疏，因留。以太后故，入则侍帝同辇，出则同车游猎上林中。
translation: 
Wu, Chu and other countries were defeated, and the number of enemy troops killed by Liang and Han was approximately the same.
In the second year, the Han Dynasty established a prince.
The Liang Kingdom was the closest to the emperor, had military exploits, and was a big country with fertile territory. It stretched from Mount Tai in the north to Gaoyang in the west. It had more than 40 cities in total, most of which were large counties.
Xiao Wang Liu Wu was the youngest son of the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother liked him very much and gave him countless rewards.
King Xiao then built Shuyuan, with a radius of more than 300 miles, which was 70 miles wider than Suiyang City. He built a large palace in Dongyuan, built an air passage between the pavilions, and built a road more than 30 miles from the palace to the platform to leave the palace.
Under the banner of the emperor's gift, he followed thousands of people on horseback and avoided pedestrians when he came in and out, just like the emperor.
He also recruited heroes from all over, and Yang Sheng, Gongsun Gui, Zou Yang and other wanderers from Shandong came to him one after another.
Gongsun Gui was a man of many tricks. After the first meeting with King Xiao, he gave him a thousand pieces of gold, promoted him to lieutenant, and became known as General Gongsun.
King Xiao also ordered hundreds of thousands of crossbows, bows and arrows to be made, and the money in the treasury was millions, and the jewels and jades were more than those in the capital.
In October of the 29th year, King Xiao entered the court.
Emperor Jing sent someone in a four-horse chariot to meet him outside the city. After arriving at court, King Xiao wrote to Emperor Jing and stayed.
Because of the empress dowager, King Xiao was of the same generation as Emperor Jing when he went in, and rode with Emperor Jing when he went out, and went hunting in the mountains and forests together.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
梁之侍中、郎、谒者著引籍出入天子殿门，与汉宦官亡异。
十一月，上废栗太子，太后心欲以梁王为嗣。
大臣及爰盎等有所关说于帝，太后议格，孝王不敢复言太后以嗣事。
事秘，世莫知，乃辞归国。
其夏，上立胶东王为太子。
梁王怨爰盎及议臣，乃与羊胜、公孙诡之属谋，阴使人刺杀爰盎及他议臣十余人。
贼未得也。
于是天子意梁，逐贼，果梁使之。
遣使冠盖相望于道，复案梁事。
捕公孙诡、羊胜，皆匿王后宫。
使者责二千石急，梁相轩丘豹及内史安国皆泣谏王，王乃令胜、诡皆自杀，出之。
上由此怨望于梁王。
梁王恐，乃使韩安国因长公主谢罪太后，然后得释。
上怒稍解，因上书请朝。
translation: 
The servants, ministers and eunuchs of the Liang Kingdom could enter and leave the Emperor's Palace with their name certificates, just like the eunuchs in the desert.
In November, the emperor deposed Prince Li, and the Queen Mother wanted to let Prince Liang succeed him.
The ministers and Yuan An and others remonstrated with Emperor Jing, and the Queen Mother's suggestion was shelved. King Xiao did not dare to discuss the succession with the Queen Mother anymore.
The matter was a secret and unknown to the world, so King Xiao immediately left and returned to his country.
In the summer, the emperor made King Micellar the crown prince.
The King of Liang hated Yuan An and the ministers who made suggestions, so he conspired with Yang Sheng, Gongsun Gui and others, and secretly sent people to assassinate Yuan An and a dozen other ministers.
As a result, the assassin failed.
The emperor suspected that this matter was done by Liang Guo, and after further investigation, he found out that it was indeed sent by Liang Guo.
So he sent a large team of people to Liang Guo to investigate the matter.
Gongsun Gui and Yang Sheng were hunted down and hid in the palace of Queen Liang.
The envoy sent two thousand stone officials to urge the king of Liang to surrender. Liang's Prime Minister Xuan Qiubao and Internal Secretary Han Anguo cried to persuade the King of Liang, and the King of Liang ordered Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui to commit suicide and then hand them over.
The emperor was angry with King Liang because of this.
The King of Liang was in panic, so he sent Han Anguo to apologize to the Queen Mother through the eldest princess, and then he calmed down.
After the emperor's anger subsided, King Xiao of Liang immediately submitted a letter to the court.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
既至关，茅兰说王，使乘布车，从两骑入，匿于长公主园。
汉使迎王，王已入关，车骑尽居外，外不知王处。
太后泣曰： 帝杀吾子！
帝忧恐。
于是梁王伏斧质，之阙下谢罪。然后太后、帝皆大喜，相与泣，复如故。
悉召王从官入关。
然帝益疏王，不与同车辇矣。
三十五年冬，复入朝。上疏欲留，上弗许。
归国，意忽忽不乐。
北猎梁山，有献牛，足上出背上，孝王恶之。
六月中，病热，六日薨。
孝王慈孝，每闻太后病，口不能食，常欲留长安侍太后。
太后亦爱之。
及闻孝王死，窦太后泣极哀，不食，曰： 帝果杀吾子！
帝哀惧，不知所为。
与长公主计之，乃分梁为五国，尽立孝王男五人为王，女五人皆令食汤沐邑。
奏之太后，太后乃说，为帝壹餐。
孝王未死时，财以巨万计，不可胜数。
及死，藏府余黄金尚四十余万斤，他财物称是。
translation: 
When they arrived outside the city, the doctor Mao Lan advised King Xiao to enter the city in a carriage with a cloth curtain, taking only two knights with him, and first hid in the eldest princess's garden.
When the Han Emperor's envoy came to pick up King Xiao, King Xiao had already entered the city, but his carriage and horses were outside the city, and others did not know where he had gone.
The Queen Mother cried and said: The emperor has killed my son!
The emperor was also very nervous.
Soon King Xiao of Liang came to the palace to plead guilty. The Queen Mother and the Emperor were overjoyed to see him. After crying with each other, they reconciled as before.
King Xiao's followers were also summoned into the city.
However, Emperor Jing became more distant from Prince Xiao and stopped riding in the chariot with him.
In the winter of the thirty-fifth year, King Xiao entered the court again and wrote a letter to stay, but the emperor refused.
King Xiao felt unhappy after returning home.
One day, King Xiao went hunting on Liangshan Mountain in the north. Someone offered a cow with legs growing out of its back. King Xiao didn't like it very much.
On June 6, King Xiao fell ill with fever and died.
King Xiao was very filial. Every time he heard that the Queen Mother was ill, he couldn't eat and often wanted to stay in Chang'an to accompany the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother also liked him very much.
After hearing that King Xiao died, Queen Mother Dou cried very sadly, refused to eat or drink, and said: The emperor really killed my son!
The emperor was sad and scared, and didn't know what to do.
After discussing with the eldest princess, the emperor decided to divide the Liang Kingdom into five kingdoms, grant the title of king to each of King Xiao's five sons, and grant land and salary to King Xiao's five daughters.
This matter was reported to the Queen Mother, who became happy and had a meal for the sake of the Emperor.
Before the death of King Xiao, his property was in the tens of millions, which was countless.
By the time of his death, there were more than 400,000 kilograms of gold hidden in the house, and other properties were also equivalent to that.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
代孝王参初立为太原王。
四年，代王武徙为淮阳王，而参徙为代王，复并得太原，都晋阳如故。
五年一朝，凡三朝。
十七年薨，子共王登嗣。
二十九年薨，子义嗣。
元鼎中，汉广关，以常山为阻。徙代王于清河，是为刚王。
并前在代凡立四十年薨，子顷王汤嗣。
二十四年薨，子年嗣。
地节中，冀州刺史林奏年为太子时与女弟则私通。
及年立为王后，则怀年子，其婿使勿举。
则曰： 自来杀之。
婿怒曰： 为王生子，自令王家养之。
则送儿顷太后所。
相闻知，禁止则，令不得入宫。
年使从季父往来送迎则，连年不绝。
有司奏年淫乱，年坐废为庶人，徙房陵，与汤沐邑百户。
translation: 
On behalf of Xiao Wang Liu Canchu was granted the title of King of Taiyuan.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the original king Liu Wu was granted the title of King of Huaiyang. Liu Shen was renamed the acting king and continued to be in charge of Taiyuan, with Jinyang as the capital.
He went to Beijing to pay homage once every five years and visited the court three times in total.
Seventeen years later, King Dai died and his son, King Liu Deng, succeeded him.
Twenty-nine years later, Liu Deng died and his son Liu Yi succeeded him.
During the Yuanding period, the Han Dynasty expanded the mountain passes and used Changshan as a dangerous pass. The Prince Dai's Mansion was moved to Qinghe and renamed Prince Gang's Mansion.
Including the time of the current king, he died after reigning forty years. His son Liu Tang, King Qing, came to the throne.
He died twenty-four years later and was succeeded by his son Liu Nian.
During the Dijie period, Lin, the governor of Jizhou, wrote a letter stating that when Liu Nian was the prince, he had an affair with his sister Liu Ze.
After Liu Nian was crowned king, Liu Ze became pregnant with Liu Nian's child.
Liu Ze's husband refused to let her raise the child, so Liu Ze said: "Come and kill him yourself."
Her husband said angrily: If you give birth to a child for King Gang, of course you have to raise it for him.
Liu Ze sent the child to the Queen Mother Qing's home.
When the prime minister of the palace found out, he stopped her and refused to let her enter the palace.
However, Liu Nian sent his father Ji to greet and see off Liu Ze, which continued year after year.
A superior reported that Liu Nian was guilty of promiscuity, so Liu Nian was deposed as a commoner, moved to Fangling, and granted a hundred households a fief.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
立三年，国除。
元始二年，新都侯王莽兴灭继绝，白太皇太后，立年弟子如意为广宗王，奉代孝王后。
莽篡位，国绝。
梁怀王揖，文帝少子也。
好《诗》、《书》，帝爱之，异于他子。
五年一朝，凡再入朝。
因堕马死，立十年薨。
无子，国除。
明年，梁孝王武徙王梁。
梁孝王子五人为王。太子买为梁共王，次子明为济川王，彭离为济东王，定为山阳王，不识为济阴王，皆以孝景中六年同日立。
梁共王买立七年薨，子平王襄嗣。
济川王明以垣邑侯立。
七年，坐射杀其中尉，有司请诛，武帝弗忍，废为庶人，徙房陵，国除。
济东王彭离立二十九年。
translation: 
Three years later, the state was abolished.
In the second year of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the prince of Xindu sent a mission to support the extinct kingdom. He sent a report to the Empress Dowager and established his younger brother's son, Zhuxuan, as King Chensai to succeed King Xiao.
After Wang Ling usurped the throne, the feudal state was abolished.
Although Liang Huai Wang Yi was the youngest son of Emperor Wen.
He likes "Shi Zhen" and "Shang Shu", and the chief inspector likes him differently from other sons.
He entered the DPRK once every five years and entered the DPRK twice in total.
Died due to falling from a horse and reigned for ten years.
Since there were no successors, the country was abolished.
In the second year, King Luan Xiao died and moved to Feng Kuang.
The five sons of King Xiao of Liang were all named kings: the eldest son Liu Mai was the King of Liang Gong, the second son Liu Ming was the King of Ji, the third son Peng Li was the King of Ji Shu, the fourth son Liu Xuan was the King of Shanyang, and the fifth son Pi Yao was the King of Nadan Mu. They were all crowned kings on the same day in the sixth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Liang Communist King Liu Mai died after reigning for seven years, and his son Ping Wang Liu Xiang succeeded to the throne.
Liu Ming, the king of Jichuan, was granted the title of king from the title of Marquis of Yuanyi.
When he was in power for seven years, he shot and killed one of his lieutenants. His superiors reported that he should be executed. Jihu could not bear to kill him, so he was deposed as a civilian and moved to Fangling County, thus deposing his kingdom.
King Pengli of Jidong reigned for twenty-nine years.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
彭离骄悍，昏暮私与其奴亡命少年数十人行剽，杀人取财物以为好。
所杀发觉者百余人，国皆知之，莫敢夜行。
所杀者子上书告言，有司请诛，武帝弗忍，废为庶人，徙上庸，国除，为大河郡。
山阳哀王定立九年薨。亡子，国除。
济阴哀王不识立一年薨。亡子，国除。
孝王支子四王，皆绝于身。
梁平王襄，母曰陈太后。
共王母曰李太后。
李太后，亲平王之大母也。
而平王之后曰任后，任后甚有宠于襄。
初，孝王有雷尊，直千金，戒后世善宝之，毋得以与人。
任后闻而欲得之。
李太后曰： 先王有命，毋得以尊与人。
他物虽百巨万，犹自恣。
任后绝欲得之。
王襄直使人开府取尊赐任后，又王及母陈太后事李太后多不顺。
translation: 
Peng Li has an arrogant temperament. He often goes out secretly at night to rob with dozens of his desperate youths, taking pleasure in killing people and grabbing money.
As far as anyone knew, they killed more than a hundred people. The whole country knew about this, and the people did not dare to go out at night.
The victim's children complained, and a minister petitioned the emperor to behead him. Emperor Wu couldn't bear it, so he deposed him as a commoner and moved him to Shangyong County. He abolished his feudal state and changed it to Dahe County.
Liu Ding, the Ai King of Shanyang, died after reigning for nine years. Because he had no children, the feudal state was abolished.
King Ji Yin'ai died without a son within a year of his reign, and the feudal kingdom was abolished.
Prince Xiao and his concubine were all crowned kings, but they all died without heirs.
The mother of Liang Ping Wang Liu Xiang was the Queen Mother Chen.
The mother of King Gong of Liang was Queen Mother Li.
Queen Mother Li is the biological grandmother of King Liang Ping.
The queen of King Ping of Liang was Queen Ren, and she was very favored by Liu Xiang.
At that time, King Xiao had a wine bottle decorated with cloud and thunder patterns, which was worth thousands of gold. King Xiao once told his descendants to take good care of it and never give it to others.
After Ren Hou heard about this wine bottle, he wanted to get it.
Queen Mother Li said: The late king has a destiny, and this wine bottle cannot be given to others.
You can take other things no matter how much they are worth.
But Ren Hou insisted on getting it.
So Liu Xiang directly sent someone to open the door of the mansion, take out the wine bottles, and give them to the queen. Liu Xiang and his mother, Queen Mother Chen, were not filial enough to Queen Mother Li.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
有汉使者来，李太后欲自言，王使谒者中郎胡等遮止，闭门。
李太后与争门，措指，太后啼呼，不得见汉使者。
李太后亦私与食官长及郎尹霸等奸乱，王与任后以此使人风止李太后。
李太后亦已，后病薨。病时，任后未尝请疾；薨，又不侍丧。
元朔中，睢阳人犴反，人辱其父，而与睢阳太守客俱出同车。犴反杀其仇车上，亡去。
睢阳太守怒，以让梁二千石。
二千石以下求反急，执反亲戚。
反知国阴事，乃上变告梁王与大母争尊状。
时相以下具知之，欲以伤梁长吏，书闻。
天子下吏验问，有之。
公卿治，奏以为不孝，请诛王及太后。
天子曰： 首恶失道，任后也。
朕置相吏不逮，无以辅王，故陷不谊，不忍致法。
削梁王五县，夺王太后汤沐成阳邑，枭任后首于市，中郎胡等皆伏诛。
translation: 
One time, Emperor Mo's envoy came, and Empress Dowager Li wanted to complain in person. Liu Xiang sent his envoy Zhonglang Hu and others to stop him and closed the door.
Empress Dowager Li tried to rush out and injured her finger. She cried and shouted, but she still didn't see the Han envoy.
Because Empress Dowager Li had committed adultery with the Chief Food Officer and Lang Guan Yin Ba, King Ping and Empress Ren sent people to dissuade Empress Dowager Li, and Empress Dowager Li gave up.
Later Empress Dowager Li died of illness. When Empress Dowager Li was ill, Empress Ren did not visit her; when she died, Empress Ren did not go to mourn her either.
During the Yuanshuo period, someone insulted the father of a rebel named Suiyang. The man went out to ride with the guests of Suiyang Prefect, and then he jumped on the train and killed the enemy, and then ran away.
The prefect of Suiyang was furious and ordered two thousand officials from Liang State to capture the fugitive.
Er Qian Shi's men were very anxious to capture Mian Fan, so they first took his relatives as hostages.
Wan Fu knew about the scandal in Liang's palace, so he complained to the king of Liang about the dispute over the wine bottle with his grandmother.
At that time, everyone below the prime minister knew about this and wanted to use it to punish the senior officials of Liang State.
Someone wrote a letter to the emperor, and the emperor sent someone to inquire and found that the matter was true.
After the minister investigated the case, he reported to the emperor that he wanted to kill the King of Liang and the Queen Mother Chen for being unfilial.
The emperor said: The culprit is Empress Ren.
As for the King of Liang, I appointed the prime minister and officials inappropriately and failed to assist him properly, which led to his inappropriate behavior. I couldn't bear to let him die.
So he only cut off the territory of the five counties of Liang Wang, took away the Chengyang city of Empress Dowager Chen, and put the heads of the queen's oars in public, and beheaded the middle men and Hu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
梁余尚有八城。
襄立四十年薨，子顷王无伤嗣。
十一年薨，子敬王定国嗣。
四十年薨，子夷王遂嗣。
六年薨，子荒王嘉嗣。
十五年薨，子立嗣。
鸿嘉中，太傅辅奏： 立一日至十一犯法，臣下愁苦，莫敢亲近，不可谏止。
愿令王，非耕、祠，法驾毋得出宫，尽出马置外苑，收兵杖藏私府，毋得以金钱财物假赐人。
事下丞相、御史，请许。
奏可。
后数复驱伤郎，夜私出宫。
傅相连奏，坐削或千户或五百户，如是者数焉。
荒王女弟园子为立舅任宝妻，宝兄子昭为立后。
数过宝饮食，报宝曰： 我好翁主，欲得之。
宝曰： 翁主，姑也，法重。
立曰： 何能为！
遂与园子奸。
积数岁，永始中，相禹奏立对外家怨望，有恶言。
有司案验，因发淫乱事，奏立禽兽行，请诛。
太中大夫谷永上疏曰： 臣闻 礼，天子外屏，不欲见外 也。
是故帝王之意，不窥人闺门之私，听闻中冓之言。
translation: 
In this way, Liang Guo still had eight cities left.
Liu Xiang died after reigning for forty years, and his son Qing Wang Wushang succeeded him.
Wushang died eleven years after he ascended the throne, and his son Jingwang Dingguo succeeded him.
Dingguo died after reigning for forty years, and his son Liu Sui, King of Yi, succeeded him.
Liu Sui died after reigning for six years and was succeeded by his son Liu Jia, King Huang.
Liu Jia died after reigning for fifteen years, and his son Liu Li succeeded him.
During the Hongjia period, the Imperial Tutor's assistant reported: Liu Li broke the law up to eleven times a day, and his subjects were miserable. No one dared to approach him, and no one could stop him.
Your Majesty, please give an order to the King of Liang. Chariots and horses are not allowed to leave the palace gates except for farming or worship. Horses are to be kept outside the palace garden. Weapons and instruments of torture are kept in the palace. Money and property are not allowed to be given to others indiscriminately.
The Prime Minister and the Censor, please ask the Emperor for permission.
The emperor played it accurately.
But later Liu Li wounded the official several times and left the palace privately at night.
Tutors and prime ministers were sometimes deprived of one thousand or five hundred households for breaking the law. Repeat this several times.
King Huang's sister Yuanzi is the wife of Liu Li's uncle Ren Bao, and Ren Bao's brother's daughter Ren Zhao is Liu Li's queen.
Liu Li went to Ren Bao's house several times to eat and drink, and said to him: I like the princess, I want her.
Ren Shi said: The princess is your aunt, and breaking this law is a serious crime.
Liu Li said: How could it be!
So he committed adultery with Yuanzi.
Several years passed, and during the Yongshi period, Prime Minister Yu reported that Liu Li was resentful of his relatives and had made bad words to insult the court.
An official went to investigate the case and discovered Liu Li's fornication. Therefore, he reported that Liu Li behaved like an animal and should be beheaded.
Gu Yongshangshu, a senior official in Taizhong, said: I have heard that ritual is a screen for the emperor, and the emperor marches through it.
Therefore, an emperor should not pry into other people's rooms, and should not eavesdrop on what others say in their rooms.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
《春秋》为亲者讳。
《诗》云 戚戚兄弟，莫远具尔 。今梁王年少，颇有狂病，始以恶言按验，既亡事实，而发闺门之私，非本章所指。
王辞又不服，猥强劾立，傅致难明之事，独以偏辞成罪断狱，亡益于治道。
污蔑宗室，以内乱之恶披布宣扬于天下，非所以为公族隐讳，增朝廷之荣华，昭圣德之风化也。
臣愚以为王少，而父同产长，年齿不伦；梁国之富，足以厚聘美女，招致妖丽；父同产亦有耻辱之心。
案事者乃验问恶言，何故猥自发舒？
以三者揆之，殆非人情，疑有所迫切，过误失言，文吏蹑寻，不得转移。
萌牙之时，加恩勿治，上也。
既已案验举宪，宜及王辞不服，诏廷尉选上德通理之吏，更审考清问，著不然之效，定失误之法，而反命于下吏，以广公族附疏之德，为宗室刷污乱之耻，甚得治亲之谊。
translation: 
"Spring and Autumn" also does not talk about matters between relatives.
The Book of Songs says that close relatives are close no matter how far away they are. The King of Liang was young and ignorant, and a little arrogant. He initially investigated the case based on evil words, but now that no factual basis has been found, he went to expose the secrets of his boudoir, which was beyond the scope of the initial investigation and filing of the case.
The King of Liang claimed to be dissatisfied and insisted on impeaching him, which was an unexplainable matter. Convicting and concluding the case based on one side's words would probably be detrimental to the emperor's governance.
Insulting the clan's family and publicizing the evils of civil strife to the world cannot protect the reputation of the clan, add glory to the court, and add virtue to the royal family.
The minister thought that the king of Liang was young and his father's sister was older, so the two were not in commensurate ages. The country of Liang was also very rich and had enough money to hire beauties and attract beautiful women. Besides, his aunt would also have a shameful heart.
The person handling the case originally wanted to find out the perpetrators, so why did they find out such a thing to investigate?
From the above three points, this matter is not normal. I suspect that King Liang just said two wrong words under urgent circumstances.
If any of the officials under the department continue to investigate, it will not be conducive to their rehabilitation. When mistakes happen, caring rather than sanctions is the best policy.
Now that the case has been concluded, the King of Liang's objections should be taken into consideration, and the Ting Wei should be asked to select an official with good moral character and reasonableness, conduct further inquiries to correct the inappropriateness and untruths, and then hand over the innocent facts to Yousi, so that the virtues of the royal relatives can be promoted, the filth and shame of the clan can be removed, and the matter can be handled well.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
天子由是寝而不治。
居数岁，元延中，立复以公事怨相掾及睢阳丞，使奴杀之，杀奴以灭口。
凡杀三人，伤五人，手驱郎吏二十余人。
上书不拜奏。
谋篡死罪囚。
有司请诛，上不忍，削立五县。
哀帝建平中，立复杀人。
天子遣廷尉赏、大鸿鼐由持节即讯。
至，移书傅、相、中尉曰： 王背策戒，悖暴妄行，连犯大辟，毒流吏民。
比比蒙恩，不伏重诛，不思改过，复贼杀人。
幸得蒙恩，丞相长史、大鸿胪丞即问。
王阳病抵谰，置辞骄嫚，不首主令，与背畔亡异。
丞相、御史请收王玺绶，送陈留狱。
明诏加恩，复遣廷尉、大鸿胪杂问。
今王当受诏置辞，恐复不首实对。
《书》曰： 至于再三，有不用，我降尔命。
傅、相、中尉皆以辅正为职， 虎兕出于匣，龟玉毁于匮中，是谁之过也？ 书到，明以谊晓王。
敢复怀诈，罪过益深。
傅、相以下，不能辅导，有正法。
立惶恐，免冠对曰： 立少失父母，孤弱处深宫中，独与宦者婢妾居，渐渍小国之俗，加以质性下愚，有不可移之姿。
往者傅、相亦不纯以仁谊辅翼立，大臣皆尚苛刻，刺求微密。
谗臣在其间，左右弄口，积使上下不和，更相眄伺。宫殿之里，毛氂过失，亡不暴陈。
当伏重诛，以视海内，数蒙圣恩，得见贳赦。
今立自知贼杀中郎曹将，冬月迫促，贪生畏死，即诈僵仆阳病，侥幸得逾于须臾。
谨以实对，伏须重诛。
translation: 
Therefore, the emperor did not punish the king of Liang.
A few years later, during the Yuanyan period, Liu Li hated the prime minister's subordinate officials and Suiyang Cheng again because of official business, so he sent his slaves to kill them, and then killed the slaves to silence them.
This time, three people were killed, five were injured, and more than 20 Lang officials were beaten.
The letter will not be played.
Imprisoned for conspiracy to usurp the death penalty.
Someone asked him to behead him, but the emperor couldn't bear it and only cut off five counties of Liang State.
During the Jianping period of Emperor Ai, Liu Li committed another murder.
The emperor sent a court official to reward him, and Da Honglu was ordered to make a special trip to inquire.
After they arrived, they told the Taifu, the Prime Minister, and the Lieutenant: The King of Liang has betrayed the commandments made when he was granted the title of King, and has committed tyranny, committed capital crimes, and harmed the people of the palace.
The emperor showed mercy many times without punishing him severely. But Liang Wang did not want to regret Bai Xin, but killed again.
Now the emperor is merciful and allows the prime ministers Changshi and Dahonglucheng to come here for interrogation.
However, the King of Liang pretended to be ill and denied it, spoke arrogantly, and did not bow his head to admit his guilt. According to the law, it was no different from betrayal.
Please ask the prime minister and censor to take away the royal seal of Liang Wang and send him to Chenliu Prison.
The emperor has special favors. We also need to send Tingwei and Dahonglu to interrogate.
Now the King of Liang should confess according to the decree, but I am afraid that he is unwilling to confess truthfully again.
"Book of Zhou" says: I have taught you many times, but if you still can't do it, I will take your life.
Tutors, prime ministers, and lieutenants should all be loyal to their duties, support good and suppress evil. The tiger escaped from the cage and the jewelry was destroyed in the cabinet. Whose fault caused it? The emperor's decree is here, and Liang Wangxiao is righteous.
If there is another act of disloyalty and betrayal, it will be an additional crime.
If the Taifu, the Prime Minister and his subordinates cannot help King Liang to follow the right path, they must also rectify the law.
Liu Li became frightened, took off his hat and replied: I lost my parents when I was very young. I lived alone in the palace with eunuchs and maids. I slowly developed bad habits, and with low intelligence, I reached the point where I couldn't become smarter.
Over the years, the Taifu and the Prime Minister have not only assisted me with benevolence and righteousness, but the ministers are also picky and like to pry into my secrets.
There are also slanderous ministers among these people who specialize in stirring up trouble. As a result, the upper and lower levels are now at odds with each other, and even the slightest mistake in the palace will be spread out.
I should have confessed my crime and been beheaded to bring peace to the world, but I was fortunate enough to receive mercy from the emperor many times and was pardoned.
Now I have killed Zhonglang's lieutenants. Because he knew that the day of execution in winter was coming, he was greedy for life and afraid of death, so he pretended to be ill and hoped to live a few more days.
I have told you the truth here, and I will plead guilty and be punished.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
时冬月尽，其春大赦，不治。
元始中，立坐与平帝外家中山卫氏交通，新都侯王莽奏废立为庶人，徙汉中。
立自杀。
二十七年，国除。
后二岁，莽白太皇太后立孝王玄孙之曾孙沛郡卒史音为梁王，奉孝王后。
莽篡，国绝。
赞曰：梁孝王虽以爱亲故王膏腴之地，然会汉家隆盛，百姓殷富，故能殖其货财，广其宫室车服。
然亦僣矣。
怙亲亡厌，牛祸告罚，卒用忧死，悲夫！
translation: 
The winter was over at that time, and the emperor granted a general pardon in the spring of the next year, so King Liang was not punished.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, because Liu Li had contacts with the Wei family of Zhongshan, the grandfather of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, petitioned to depose Liu Li as a commoner and move him to Hanzhong.
Liu Lizui committed suicide.
Twenty-seven years after his reign, the feudal state was abolished.
Two years later, Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager that the great-grandson of the great-great-grandson of King Chu, Xingtong, a small official named Xingtong, should be named King Luan to inherit the ancestral hall of the king.
After Wang Cha usurped the throne, Zhuyou was abolished again.
Praise: Although King Xiao of Liang was granted a fertile land because he was the closest to the emperor, he also encountered the prosperity of the Han Dynasty and the prosperity of the people, so he was able to collect a large amount of property, expand the palace, and build luxurious cars and beautiful clothes.
Yet he was too far beyond the system.
It is so sad to be greedy by relying on the relationship between close relatives, receive the ominous condemnation from the strange cow, and finally die of worry!


