Summary uses chunk [0, 4]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝昭皇帝，武帝少子也。
母曰赵婕妤，本以有奇异得幸，及生帝，亦奇异。
语在《外戚传》。武帝末，戾太子败，燕王旦、广陵王胥行骄嫚，后元二年二月上疾病，遂立昭帝为太子，年八岁。
以侍中奉车都尉霍光为大司马大将军，受遗诏辅少主。
明日，武帝崩。戊辰，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
帝姊鄂邑公主益汤沐邑，为长公主，共养省中。
大将军光秉政，领尚书事，车骑将军金日磾、左将军上官桀副焉。
夏六月，赦天下。
秋七月，有星孛于东方。
济北王宽有罪，自杀。
赐长公主及宗室昆弟各有差。追遵赵婕妤为皇太后，起云陵。
冬，匈奴入朔方，杀略吏民。
发军屯西河，左将军桀行北边。
始元元年春二月，黄鹄下建章宫太液池中。公卿上寿。
赐诸侯王、列侯、宗室金钱各有差。
已亥，上耕于钩盾弄田。
益封燕王、广陵王及鄂邑长公主各万三千户。
夏，为太后起园庙云陵。
益州廉头、姑缯、牂柯谈指、同并二十四邑皆反。
遣水衡都尉吕破胡募吏民及发犍为、蜀郡奔命击益州，大破之。
有司请河内属冀州，河东属并州。
秋七月，赦天下，赐民百户牛、酒。
大雨，渭桥绝。
八月，齐孝王孙刘泽谋反，欲杀青州刺史隽不疑，发觉，皆伏诛。
迁不疑为京兆尹，赐钱百万。
九月丙子，车骑将军日磾薨。
闰月，遣故廷尉王平等五人持节行郡国，举贤良，问民所疾苦、冤、失职者。
冬，无冰。
二年春正月，大将军光、左将军桀皆以前捕斩反虏重合侯马通功封，光为博陆侯，桀为安阳侯。
以宗室毋在位者，举茂才刘辟强、刘长乐皆为光禄大夫，辟强守长乐卫尉。
translation: 
Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty was the youngest son of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
The mother is Zhao Jieyu. She was favored because of her strange aura. When she gave birth to Emperor Zhao, there was also something strange about her.
In the last years of Emperor Wu, the violent prince Liu Ju was deposed. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling both behaved arrogantly. Emperor Wu fell seriously ill in February of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, so he made Emperor Zhao the prince. He was eight years old at the time.
As a servant, Huo Guang, the captain of the chariot, was appointed as the general of the Sima army. He was ordered by Emperor Wu to assist the young master.
Emperor Wu died the next day, and on February 15th, the prince succeeded to the throne and paid homage to the great ancestor in the temple.
Princess Eyi, the sister of Emperor Zhao, was granted the title of Tang Muyi, honored as the eldest princess, and was enshrined in the palace.
The general Huo Guang presides over the state affairs and is in charge of the secretarial affairs. The chariot and cavalry general Jin Rixi and the left general Shangguan Jie are his deputy.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive all sinners in the world.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the eastern sky.
Liu Kuan, the king of Jibei, was guilty and committed suicide.
The eldest princess and her clan brothers were given various rewards, and Zhao Jieyu was posthumously given the title of empress dowager, and a Yunyang mausoleum was built for her.
In winter, the Xiongnu invaded Shuofang, killing and plundering the officials and civilians.
The imperial court sent troops to garrison in Xihe, and left general Shangguan Jie inspected the northern border.
In the spring of February of the first year of the First Yuan Dynasty, yellow swans were perched in the Taiye Pond of Jianzhang Palace. The minister thought it was a symbol of auspiciousness and wished the emperor long life.
There are differences in the amount of money given to princes, princes, and clans.
On March 23, Emperor Zhao started farming in Goudun Field.
The king of Yan, the king of Guangling and the eldest princess of Eyi were granted 13,000 households each.
In summer, the Yunling Garden Temple was built for the Queen Mother.
The twenty-four cities of Liantou, Guzhen, and Zangke that belonged to Yizhou rebelled.
The imperial court sent Shuiheng Captain Lu Pohu to recruit officials and the elite soldiers from Jianwei and Shu counties and immediately went to the front line of Yizhou to defeat the rebels.
The competent administrative division department petitioned Hanoi to belong to Jizhou and Hedong to Bingzhou.
In the seventh month of autumn, a general amnesty will be given to the whole country, and every 100 households will be given one cow and wine.
It rained heavily and flash floods broke through the Wei Bridge.
In August, Liu Ze, the grandson of Prince Xiao of Qi, rebelled and intended to kill Jun Buyi, the governor of Qingzhou. He was discovered and executed.
There is no doubt that Sheng Yu is Jing Zhaoyin, and he will be rewarded with millions of dollars.
On September 2, the chariot general Jin Rishidan passed away.
In the intercalated tenth month, the imperial court sent five people, Wang Pingping and Wang Pingping, from the former court, to patrol the county and country with talisman festivals to inspect the virtuous and investigate the suffering of the people, unjust cases, dereliction of duty and other matters.
Winters are warm and free of ice.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, the general Huo Guang and the left general Shangguan Jie both captured and killed the rebels and reunited Hou Ma Tong with meritorious service. Huo Guang was the Marquis of Bolu, and Shangguan Jie was the Marquis of Anyang.
Among the clan members who were not in power, Liu Piqiang and Liu Changle were recommended as Guanglu officials, and Piqiang was recommended as Changle palace guard.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Zhao of Han, youngest son of Emperor Wu, ascended the throne at age eight after his father’s death in 87 BCE. Huo Guang, appointed regent, managed state affairs with deputies Jin Rixi and Shangguan Jie. Early reign events included amnesties, a comet sighting, and Xiongnu raids repelled by garrisons. Auspicious signs like yellow swans prompted celebrations, while rebellions in Yizhou and by Liu Ze were suppressed. Reforms reduced taxes, exempted land rent, and provided relief to the poor. In 81 BCE, Emperor Zhao ended state monopolies on salt, iron, and wine after consulting virtuous scholars. Su Wu returned from 19 years of captivity among the Xiongnu and was rewarded.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
十二月庚戌，丞相薨。
六年春正月，募郡国徒筑辽东玄菟城。
夏，赦天下。
诏曰： 夫谷贱伤农，今三辅、太常谷减贱，其令以叔粟当今年赋。
右将军张安世宿卫忠谨，封富平侯。
乌桓复犯塞，遣度辽将军范明友击之。
元平元年春二月，诏曰： 天下以农、桑为本。
日者省用，罢不急官，减外徭，耕、桑者益众，而百姓未能家给，朕甚愍焉。
其减口赋钱。
有司奏请减什三，上许之。
甲申晨，有流星，大如月，众星皆随西行。
夏四月癸未，帝崩于未央宫。
六月壬申，葬平陵。
赞曰：昔周成以孺子继统，而有管、蔡四国流言之变。
孝昭幼年即位，亦有燕、盍、上官逆乱之谋。
成王不疑周公，孝昭委任霍光，各因其时以成名，大矣哉！
承孝武奢侈余敝师旅之后，海内虚耗，户口减半，光知时务之要，轻徭薄赋，与民休息。
至始元、元凤之间，匈奴和亲，百姓充实。
举贤良、文学，问民所疾苦，议盐、铁而罢榷酤，尊号曰 昭 ，不亦宜乎！
translation: 
On December 6, Prime Minister Wang Xin passed away.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, prisoners from the county were recruited to build Xuantu City in Liaodong.
Xia, forgive the sinners in the world.
The edict was issued: "Generally, low prices of grain will hurt farmers. Now that grain prices have dropped in Sanfu and Taichang, various regions are specially ordered to use grain as tax payment."
The right general Zhang Anshi loyally and cautiously executed the guard and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuping.
Wuhuan once again invaded the border fortress and sent General Fan Mingyou, the general from Liao Dynasty, to lead the pursuit.
In the spring and February of the first year of Yuanping, Emperor Zhao issued an edict saying: The world is based on farming and mulberry.
In the past period, we have saved money, cut redundant personnel, and reduced additional taxes. As a result, the number of people engaged in farming has increased, but the people are still not self-sufficient. I am deeply disturbed.
It is now decided to reduce the oral tax payment.
Someone petitioned for a reduction of three-tenths, and the emperor agreed.
On February 17, there was a meteor in the morning, as big as the moon, and the stars followed the meteor westward.
On April 17th in the summer, Emperor Zhao died in Weiyang Palace.
On June 7, he was buried in Pingling.
Ban Gu commented: In the past, King Cheng of Zhou inherited the throne with a young son, but there were rumors from Guan and Cai, slandering the Duke of Zhou who served as regent and assisted the young master.
When Emperor Zhao succeeded to the throne at a young age, Yan, Yong, and Shangguan also conspired to rebel and slander Huo Guang, who was regent and assistant to the young emperor.
King Cheng did not doubt Duke Zhou, and Emperor Zhao appointed Huo Guang. It is remarkable that both monarchs and ministers can become famous in their own time!
After Emperor Zhao succeeded Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he was very happy with his achievements and went on a military expedition. The domestic economy was in depression and the population was reduced by half. However, Huo Guangneng focused on the most urgent tasks, did light corvees and low taxes, and rested with the people.
During the Shiyuan and Yuanfeng years, the country made peace with the Xiongnu on the outside and enriched the people on the inside.
He also recommended virtuous literature, inquired about the sufferings of the people, stopped selling salt, iron and wine, and did not compete with the people for profit. His posthumous title was Zhao, which is very appropriate!

summary:
summary line 1: In 80 BCE, a major conspiracy involving King Liu Dan of Yan, Princess Eyi, Shangguan Jie, and others to assassinate Huo Guang was foiled. Emperor Zhao, then 14, exposed the plot, leading to executions of the conspirators. Huo Guang’s loyalty was vindicated, and he continued as regent. Subsequent years saw further reforms: tax reductions, amnesties, and agricultural support. Emperor Zhao died in 74 BCE at age 21, buried in Pingling. Ban Gu praised his reign for restoring stability after Emperor Wu’s costly campaigns, implementing light corvée and low taxes, and fostering peace with the Xiongnu while enriching the people.

