Chunk 0: 
original: 
《传》曰： 听之不聪，是谓不谋，厥咎急，厥罚恆寒，厥极贫。
时则有鼓妖，时则有鱼孽，时则有豕祸，时则有耳痾，时则有黑眚黑祥。
惟火沴水。
听之不聪，是谓不谋，言上偏听不聪，下情隔塞，则谋虑利害，失在严急，故其咎急也。
盛冬日短，寒以杀物，政促迫，故其罚常寒也。
寒则不生百谷，上下俱贫，故其极贫也。
君严猛而闭下，臣战栗而塞耳，则妄闻之气发于音声，故有鼓妖。
寒气动，故有鱼孽。
而龟能为孽，龟能陆处，非极阴也，鱼去水而死，极阴之薛也。
于《易》，《坎》为水，为豕，豕大耳而不聪察，听气毁，故有豕祸也。
一曰，寒岁豕多死及为怪，亦是也。
及人，则多病耳者，故有耳痾。
水色黑，故有黑眚黑祥。
凡听伤者，病水敢；水气病，则火沴之。
其极贫者，顺之，其福曰富。
刘歆《听传》曰有介虫之孽也。
庶征之恆寒，刘歆以为大雨雪，及未当雨雪而雨雪，及大雨雹，陨霜杀菽草，皆恆寒之罚也。
京房《易传》曰： 有德遭险兹谓逆命，厥异寒。
诛罚过深，当燠而寒，尽六日，亦为雹。
害正不诛兹谓养贼，寒七十二日，杀飞禽。
道人始去兹谓伤，其寒，物无霜而死，涌水而出。
战不量敌帮兹谓辱命，其寒，虽雨物不茂。
闻善不予，厥咎聋。
吴孙权嘉禾三年九月朔，陨霜伤谷。
案刘向说，诛罚不由君出，在臣下之象也 。
是时，校事吕壹专作威福，与汉元帝时石显用事陨霜同应。
班固书九月二日，陈寿言朔，皆明未可以伤谷也。
壹后亦伏诛。
translation: 
"The Biography" says: Hearing but not hearing is called not planning, and the crime is impatience, and the punishment is continuous coldness, and ultimately poverty.
Sometimes there are drum monsters, sometimes there are fish evils, sometimes there are pigs, sometimes there are strange ear diseases, sometimes there are black disasters and black signs.
It is fire overcoming water.
To listen but not to hear is called not to seek, which means that the superior listens to one's will, and the subordinate's feelings are blocked and cannot be communicated. If one considers interests, there will be failures due to extreme urgency, so the crime is to be impatient.
The days are short in midwinter, the cold hurts everything, and politics are urgent, so the penalty is lasting cold.
The cold will prevent all grains from growing, and the top and bottom will be impoverished, so in the end there will be poverty.
The monarch is harsh and mighty and blocks his subordinates' emotions. The ministers are frightened and panicked and unable to listen to opinions. The spirit of listening will arise, so there is a drum demon.
The cold air is moving, so there are fish evils.
Turtles can become monsters. Turtles can move on land, which is not extremely yin. Fish will die when they leave the water. They are extremely yin monsters.
In "Yi", "Kan" refers to water and pigs. Pigs have big ears but cannot hear clearly. Listening to Qi is damaged, so pigs are troubled.
It is also correct to say that in cold years more pigs die and become monsters.
As for people, there are many people with ear diseases, so they have strange ear diseases.
The color of water is black, so there will be black disaster and black auspiciousness.
Anyone whose hearing is damaged is diseased by water vapor; if water vapor is diseased, fire will be suppressed.
In the end, it is poverty. After adapting, its blessing is called wealth.
Liu Xin's "Listen to the Legend" says that there are beetle monsters.
The usual sign of continuous cold is heavy snow, snowfall when snow is not supposed to fall, heavy hail, and frost that freezes the seedlings and grasses to death. These are all punishments for continuous cold.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: A virtuous person who encounters hardships and dangers is called rebellious fate, and his abnormal sign is coldness.
The punishment of killing was too severe, it was cold when it should be hot, and there was hail for six whole days.
Framing loyalty and not punishing him is called raising thieves. It will be cold for seventy-two days and birds will freeze to death.
The wise people begin to leave this is called injury, this cold, all things are frost-free but will die, and the gushing water comes out.
Fighting without considering the strength of the enemy is called humiliation. With this kind of coldness, even though there is rain, everything is not lush.
He who hears good things but does not agree with them is guilty of being deaf.
On the first day of September in the third year of Jiahe of Wu Sun Quan, frost fell and damaged the grains.
Liu Xiang said that the punishment of execution is not determined by the king, but depends on the behavior of his ministers.
At this time, Lu Yi, the school official, was monopolizing power and doing things well, which was the same sign as when the five children of Yao were in power and were in power.
The inaccurate record is that it is September 2nd, and Chen Shou said it was the first day of the lunar month, both of which indicate that grain cannot be harmed when sending time.
Lu Yi was later executed.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
京房《易传》曰： 兴兵妄诛兹谓亡法，厥灾霜，夏杀五谷，冬杀麦。
诛不原情兹谓不仁，其霜，夏先大雷风，冬先雨，乃陨霜，有芒角。
贤圣遭害，其霜附木不下地。
佞人依刑兹谓私贼，其霜在草根土隟间。
不教而诛兹谓虐，其霜反在草下。
四年七月，雨雹，又陨霜。
案刘向说， 雹者，阴协阳也 。
是时，吕壹作威用事，诋毁重臣，排陷无辜。
自太子登以下咸患毒之，而壹反获封侯宠异，与春秋时公子遂专任雨雹同应也。
汉安帝信谗，多杀无辜，亦雨雹。
董仲舒曰： 凡雹皆为有胁，行专一之政故也。
赤乌四年正月，大雪，平地深三尺，鸟兽死者太半。
是年夏，全琮等四将军攻略淮南、襄阳，战死者千余人。
其后，权以谗邪数责让陆议，议愤恚致卒，与汉景武大雪同事。
十一年四月，雨雹。
是时权听谗，将危太子。
其后，硃据、屈晃以迕意黜辱，陈正、陈象以忠谏族诛，而太子终废。
此有德遭险，诛罚过深之应也。
武帝泰始六年冬，大雪。
七年十二月，又大雪。
明年，有步阐、杨肇之败，死伤甚众，不聪之罚也。
九年四月辛未，陨霜。
是时，贾充亲党比周用事，与鲁定公、汉元帝时陨霜同应也。
咸宁三年八月，平原、安平、上党、泰山四郡霜，害三豆。
是月，河间暴风寒冰，郡国五陨霜伤谷。
是后大举征吴，马隆又帅精勇讨凉州。
五年五月丁亥，钜鹿、魏郡雨雹，伤禾麦。
辛卯，雁门雨雹，伤秋稼。
六月庚戌，汲郡、广平、陈留、荥阳雨雹。
丙辰，又雨雹，陨霜，伤秋麦千三百余顷，坏屋百二十余间。
癸亥，安定雨雹。
七月丙申，魏郡又雨雹。
translation: 
Jingfang's "Yi Lai" said: Raising troops to kill at will is called a violation of law. The disaster is frost, which damages the grains in summer and the wheat seedlings in winter.
Killing without caring about love is called unkindness. There is frost. In summer, there is a strong thunder and wind. In winter, there is rain first, and then there is frost, which has horns like awns.
Sages and saints were killed, and frost clung to the trees and did not come down to the ground.
The treacherous person who relies on the criminal law is called a private thief, and the frost is in the cracks of the grass roots and soil.
Punishing without educating is called cruelty, and the frost is under the grass.
In July of the fourth year, there was hail and frost.
Liu Xiang said that hail is Yin Qi threatening Yang Qi.
At that time, Lu Yi had the power to slander important ministers and exclude innocent people.
Everyone from the prince Sun Deng down hated him, but Lu Yi was particularly favored by the feudal lord. It was the same as the sign of hail falling from the sky when the prince arbitrarily ruled the government in the day and autumn.
Emperor An of the Han Dynasty listened to the slander and killed many innocent people. It was also hail from the sky.
Dong Zhongshu said: Any hailstorm is caused by coercion and arbitrary politics.
In the first month of the fourth year of Chiwu, there was heavy snow, the ground was three feet deep, and most of the birds and beasts died.
In the summer of that year, Quan Cong and four other generals captured Jinlu and Saiyan, and more than a thousand people died in the battle.
After that, Jian Jiu scolded Lu Yi many times for listening to the slanderous words, and Lu Yi died in anger, which was the same as the incident of Liang Tong and Gen Shi Shi in the Han Dynasty.
In April of the eleventh year, there was hail.
At this time, Sun Quan listened to the slander and was about to endanger the prince.
After that, Zhu Ju and Qu Huang were deposed and humiliated for going against his will, Chen Zheng and Chen Xiang were reduced from their clans for their loyal admonitions, and the crown prince was eventually deposed.
This is a sign that a virtuous person will encounter danger and severe punishment.
In the winter of the sixth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was heavy snow.
In December of the seventh year, it snowed heavily again.
In the second year, Youbu Chan and Yang Zhao were defeated, and many people were killed and injured. This was a punishment for being unable to listen to opinions.
At the end of April in the ninth year, frost fell.
At this time, the trusted cronies colluded with each other to control the government, which was the same sign of frost during the reign of Lu Dinggong and Mo Yuan.
In August of the third year of Xianning, there was frost in Pingyuan, Anping, Shangdang and Taishan counties, damaging three beans.
That month, there were storms and ice in Hejian County, and five frosts in the county damaged the grain.
After that, he launched a large-scale campaign against Wu, and Ma Long led his elite troops to conquer Liangzhou.
In the fifth month of the fifth year of Dinghai, hail fell in Julu and Wei counties, damaging the crops and wheat.
On Xinmao, hail fell in Yanmen County, damaging autumn crops.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, there was hail in Jijun, Guangping, Chenliu and Rongyang.
On Bingchen, hail and frost fell again, damaging more than 1,300 hectares of autumn wheat and destroying more than 120 houses.
Guihai, there is hail in peace.
In July Bingshen, there was another hailstorm in Wei County.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
闰月壬子，新兴又雨雹。
八月庚子，河南、河东、弘农又雨雹，兼伤秋稼三豆。
太康元年三月，河东、高平霜雹，伤桑麦。
四月，河南、河内、河东、魏郡、弘农雨雹，伤麦豆。
是月庚午，畿内县二及东平、范阳雨雹。
癸酉，畿内县五又雨雹。
五月，东平、平阳、上党、雁门、济南雨雹，伤禾麦三豆。
是时王浚有大功，而权戚互加陷抑，帝从容不断，阴胁阳之应也。
二年二月辛酉，陨霜于济南、琅邪，伤麦。壬申，琅邪雨雹，伤麦。
三月甲午，河东陨霜，害桑。
五月丙戌，城阳、章武、琅邪伤麦。
庚寅，河东、乐安、东平、济阴、弘农、濮阳、齐国、顿丘、魏郡、河内、汲郡、上党雨雹，伤禾稼。
六月，郡国十七雨雹。
七月，上党雨雹。
三年十二月，大雪。
五年七月乙卯，中山、东平雨雹，伤秋稼。
甲辰，中山雨雹。
九月，南安大雪，折木。
六年二月，东海陨霜，伤桑麦。
三月戊辰，齐郡临淄、长广不其等四县，乐安梁邹等八县，琅邪临沂等八县，河间易城等六县，高阳北新城等四县陨霜，伤桑麦。
六月，荣阳、汲郡、雁门雨雹。
八年四月，齐国、天水二郡陨霜。
十二月，大雪。
九年正月，京都大风雨雹，发屋拔木。
四月，陇西陨霜。
十年四月，郡国八陨霜。
惠帝元康二年八月，沛及荡阴雨雹。
三年四月，荥阳雨雹。
六月，弘农湖、华阴又雨雹，深三尺。
是时，贾后凶淫专恣，与春秋鲁桓夫人同事，阴气盛也。
五年六月，东海雨雹，深五寸。
十二月，丹阳建鄴雨雹。
是月，丹阳建鄴大雪。
六年三月，东海陨雪，杀桑麦。
七年五月，鲁国雨雹。
七月，秦、雍二州陨霜，杀稼也。
九年三月旬有八日，河南、荥阳、颍川陨霜，伤禾。
五月、雨雹。
translation: 
In the leap month of Renzi, there is another hailstorm.
In August Gengzi, hail fell again in Henan, Hedong, and Hongnong, damaging autumn crops and three beans.
In March of the first year of Taikang, there were frost and hail in Hedong and Gaoping, which damaged mulberry and wheat.
In April, hail fell in Henan, Hanoi, Hedong, Weijun, and Hongnong, damaging wheat and beans.
On Gengwu of that month, hail fell in two counties in the capital area, Shuping and Fanyang.
Guiyou, there was another hailstorm in five counties in the Beijing area.
In May, hail fell in Shuping, Pingyang, Shangdang, Yanmen, and Jinan, damaging wheat and beans.
When Wang Jun was dispatched, he had great achievements, but the powerful ministers and nobles belittled and framed each other, and Emperor Wu did not stop him. This was a sign that Yin Qi was coercing Yang Qi.
In February of the second year of the second year of Xinyou, frost fell in Jinan and Langxie, hurting wheat. In Renshen, there was hail in Langxie, which damaged the wheat.
In March, frost fell on the east side of the river, damaging the mulberry trees.
In the fifth month of Bingxu, Chengyang, Zhangwu, and Langxie were injured in wheat.
Hail fell in Gengyin, Hedong, Le'an, Shuping, Jiyin, Hongnong, Puyang, Qiguo, Dunqiu, Weijun, Hanoi, Jijun, and Shangdang, damaging crops.
In June, the county hailed seventeen times.
In July, there was hail in Shangdang.
In December of the third year, it snowed heavily.
In the seventh month of the fifth year on Yi Mao, hail fell in Zhongshan and Dongping, damaging the autumn crops.
On Jiachen, there was hail in Zhongshan.
In September, it snowed heavily in Nan'an, breaking trees.
In February of the sixth year, frost fell on the East China Sea, hurting mulberry and wheat.
On the Wuchen day of March, frost fell in four counties including Linzi and Changguang Buqi in Qi County, eight counties including Liangzo in Le'an, eight counties including Langxie Linyi, six counties including Yicheng in Hejian, and four counties including Beixincheng in Gaoyang, damaging mulberry and wheat.
In June, there was hail in Rongyang, Jijun and Yanmen.
In April of the eighth year, frost fell in the counties of Qi and Tianshui.
In December, it snows heavily.
In the first month of the ninth year, strong winds and hail fell in Kyoto, knocking down houses and uprooting trees.
In April, frost falls in Longxi.
In April of the tenth year, frost fell eight times in the county.
In August of the second year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was hail in Hedangyin, Pei County.
In April of the third year, there was hail in Rongyang.
In June, there was another hailstorm in Hongnong Lake and Huayin, which was three feet deep.
During the Han Dynasty, Empress Jia was vicious, dissolute and domineering. The situation was the same as that of Duke Huan of Lu in the Spring and Autumn Period. She had too much yin energy.
In June of the fifth year, there was hail in Shuhai, which was five inches deep.
In December, there was hail in Danyang Jianye.
That month, it snowed heavily in Danyang Jianye.
In March of the sixth year, snow fell in the East China Sea, damaging Sangmai.
In the fifth month of the seventh year, there was hail in the state of Lu.
In July, frost fell in Qin and Yong prefectures, damaging crops.
On March 18, 1999, frost fell in the three counties of Henan, Xingyang, and Yingchuan, damaging the seedlings.
In May, there was hail.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是时，贾后凶躁滋甚，及冬，遂废愍怀。
永宁元年七月，襄城、河南雨雹。
十月，襄城、河南、高平、平阳又风雹，折木伤稼。
光熙元年闰八月甲申朔，霰雪。
刘向曰： 盛阳雨水，伤热，阴气胁之，则转而为雹。
盛阴雨雪，凝滞，阳气薄之，则散而为霰。
今雪非其时，此听不聪之应。
是年，帝崩。
孝怀帝永嘉元年十二月冬，雪，平地三尺。
七年十月庚午，大雪。
元帝太兴二年三月丁未，成都风雹，杀人。
三年三月，海盐雨雹。
是时，王敦陵上。
永昌二年十二月，幽、冀、并三州大雨。
明帝太宁元年十二月，幽、冀、并三州大雪。
二年四月庚子，京都雨雹，燕雀死。
三年三月丁丑，雨雪。
癸巳，陨霜。
四月，大雨雹。
是年，帝崩，寻有苏峻之乱。
成帝咸和六年三月癸未，雨雹。
是时，帝幼弱，政在大臣。
九年八月，成都大雪。
是岁，李雄死。
咸康二年正月丁巳，皇后见于太庙，其夕雨雹。
康帝建元元年八月，大雪。
是时，政在将相，阴气盛也。
刘向曰： 凡雨阴也，雪又雨之阴也。
出非其时，迫近象也。
穆帝永和二年八月，冀方大雪，人马多冻死。
五年六月，临漳暴风震电，雨雹，大如升。
十年五月，凉州雪。
明年八月，张祚枹罕护军张瓘率宋混等攻灭祚，更立张耀灵弟玄靓。
京房《易传》曰： 夏雪，戒臣为乱。
此其乱之应也。
十一年四月壬申朔，霜。
十二月戊午，雷。
己未，雪。
是时帝幼，母后称制，政在大臣，阴盛故也。
升平二年正月，大雪。
海西太和三年四月，雨雹，折木。
孝武太元二年四月己酉，雨雹。
十二月，大雪。
是时帝幼，政在将相，阴之盛也。
translation: 
At this time, Maizheng's violence became increasingly serious, and in winter, Prince Minhuai was finally deposed.
In July of the first year of Yongning, there was hail in Xiangcheng and Henan.
In October, there were strong winds and hail in Xiangcheng, Henan, Gaoping, and Pingyang, which broke trees and damaged crops.
On the first day of the eighth leap month in the first year of Guangxi, there was snow in Jiashen.
Liu Xiang said: Strong Yang Qi will cause rainfall, but if it is invaded by heat and Yin Qi threatens it, it will turn into hail.
Strong Yin Qi causes snow to condense and stagnate; when Yang Qi approaches it, it disperses and becomes graupel.
Snowfall is out of season now, which is a bad sign.
This year, Emperor Hui died.
In the winter of December of the first year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, snow fell and the flat ground was three feet deep.
In October of the seventh year, it snowed heavily.
In the third month of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was strong wind and hail in Chengdu, and people died.
In March of the third year, there was hail on the sea salt.
During the period of the Han Dynasty, Wang Dun invaded and invaded the king.
In December of the second year of Yongchang, it rained heavily in You, Ji, and Bingzhou.
In December of the first year of Taining, Emperor Ming, it snowed heavily in You, Ji, and Bingzhou.
In April of the following year, there was hail in Kyoto and the sparrows died.
In March of the third year, it snowed.
Guisi, the frost comes.
In April, there was massive hail.
That year, Dan Mi passed away, and soon there was the Lan Jun Rebellion.
In the third month of Guiwei, the sixth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, there was hail.
When he was sent, Emperor Cheng was young and weak, and the political power was controlled by his ministers.
In August of the ninth year, there was heavy snow in Chengdu.
That year, Li Xiong died.
On Dingsi day of the first month of the second year of Xiankang, the queen appeared in the Ancestral Temple. It was hailed that night.
In August of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's reign, it snowed heavily.
At this time, the political power is controlled by the generals, and the Yin energy is too strong.
Liu Xiang said: All rain is yin, and snow is the yin of rain.
The appearance is not at the normal season and is a sign of persecution.
In August of the second year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, it snowed heavily in Jizhou, and many people and horses froze to death.
In June of the fifth year, there was a storm in Linzhang, with thunder and lightning and hail as big as a liter.
In May of the tenth year, it snowed in Liangzhou.
In August of the next year, Zhang Zuo took charge of his army and led Song Hun and others to attack and destroy Zhang Zuo.
Saigu's "Yi Zhuan" said: Snow in summer is a warning to ministers to cause trouble.
This is a sign that Zhang Guan is causing trouble.
On the first day of April in the eleventh year of Renshen, there was frost.
On Wuwu in December, there was thunder.
Jiwei, there is snow.
At this time, Chamu was young, his mother was in charge of the government, and the government was controlled by ministers. This was due to the strong Yin energy.
In the first month of the second year of Shengping, there was heavy snow.
In the fourth month of the third year of Hercynian Taihe, there was hail and the trees were broken.
In April of the second year of Xiaowu Taiyuan, there was hail.
In December, it snows heavily.
At this time, Emperor Xiaowu was young and the political power was controlled by generals, so the Yin energy was too strong.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十二年四月己丑，雨雹。
二十年五月癸卯，上虞雨雹。
二十一年四月丁亥，雨雹。
是时，张夫人专宠，及帝暴崩，兆庶尤之。
十二月，雨雪二十三日。
是时嗣主幼冲，冢宰专政。
安帝隆安二年三月乙卯，雨雹。
是秋，王恭、殷仲堪称兵内侮，终皆诛之也。
元兴二年十二月，酷寒过甚。
是时，桓玄篡位，政事烦苛。
识者以为朝政失在舒缓，玄则反之以酷。
案刘向曰： 周衰无寒岁，秦灭无燠年。
此之谓也。
三年正月甲申，霰雪又雷。
雷霰同时，皆失节之应也。
四月丙午，江陵雨雹。
是时，安帝蒙尘。
义熙元年四月壬申，雨雹。
是时，四方未一，钲鼓日戒。
五年三月己亥，雪，深数尺。
五月癸巳，溧阳雨雹。
九月己丑，广陵雨雹。
明年，卢循至蔡洲。
六年正月丙寅，雪又雷。
五月壬申，雨雹。
八年四月辛未朔，雨雹。
六月癸亥，雨雹，大风发屋。
是秋，诛刘蕃等。
十年四月辛卯，雨雹。
雷震魏明帝景初中，洛阳城东桥、城西洛水浮桥桓楹同日三处俱时震。
寻又震西城上候风木飞鸟。
时劳役大起，帝寻晏驾。
吴孙权赤乌八年夏，震宫门柱，又击南津大桥桓楹。
孙亮建兴元年十二月朔，大风震电。
是月，又雷雨。
义同前说，亮终废。
武帝太康六年十二月甲申朔，淮南郡震电。
七年十二月己亥，毗陵雷电，南沙司盐都尉戴亮以闻。
十年十二月癸卯，庐江、建安雷电大雨。
惠帝永康元年六月癸卯，震崇阳陵标，西南五百步标破为七十片。
translation: 
In April of the twelfth year, there was hail.
In the fifth month of the 20th year, there was hail and rain.
On April 21, Dinghai, there was hail.
At that time, Mrs. Zhang was favored. Emperor Wu died suddenly, and the people blamed Mrs. Zhang.
In December, it snowed for twenty-three days.
At this time, the monarch who succeeded to the throne was young, and the prime minister was arbitrary in government affairs.
In March Yimao of the second year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was hail.
In the autumn of that year, Wang Yu and Yin Zhongkan raised troops to invade the capital, and were eventually killed.
In December of the second year of Yuanxing, it was extremely cold.
At this time, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and the political affairs were harsh.
Insightful people believed that the fault of the government was looseness and leniency, but Huanxuan went against the grain and became harsh.
Liu Xiang said: There was no cold year when the Zhou Dynasty fell, and there was no hot year when the Qin Dynasty fell.
That's the case.
In the first month of the third year of Jiashen, there was snow and thunder.
The appearance of thunder and lightning at the same time is a sign of violating the rules.
On Bingwu in April, there was hail in Jiangling.
At this time, Emperor An was in trouble.
In the fourth month of the first year of Yixi, there was hail in Renshen.
During the period of time, there was no unity in the world, and the army was on alert every day.
In March of the fifth year of Jihai, it snowed several feet deep.
In the fifth month of Guisi, there was hail in Liyang.
In the ninth month of September, there was hail in Guangling.
The next year, Lu Xun went to Caizhou.
In the first month of the sixth year, Bingyin, it snowed and thundered.
In Renshen in May, there was hail.
On the first day of April in the eighth year of the lunar month, there was hail.
In June of Guihai, there was hail and strong winds destroyed the houses.
In the autumn of that year, Liu Fan and others were executed.
In April of the tenth year, there was hail.
During the reign of Emperor Wei and Ming Dynasty, the perforated wooden pillars of Luoyang Chengshu Bridge and Luoshui Floating Bridge in the west of the city were struck by lightning on the same day.
Soon there was another thunder and lightning that shook the trees on the west side of the city.
At that time, labor was greatly promoted, and Emperor Ming died soon after.
In the summer of the eighth year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, lightning struck the gate pillars of the palace and the perforated wooden pillars of the Nanjin Bridge.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month in the first year of Jianxing's reign by Sun Liang, there were strong winds and thunder and lightning.
That month, there was another thunderstorm.
The meaning is the same as what was said before, Sun Liang was finally deposed.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month in the sixth year of Taikang, Emperor Wu, there was thunder and lightning in Huainan County.
In the twelfth month of the seventh year of Jihai, there was thunder and lightning near the mausoleum, and Dai Liang, the salt captain of Nanshasi, reported it.
In December of the 10th year of Guimao, there were thunder, lightning and heavy rain in Lujiang and Jian'an.
In the sixth month of the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongkang reign, lightning struck 500 steps southwest of the Chongyang Mausoleum cairn, and the cairn broke into seventy pieces.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
是时，贾后陷害鼎辅，宠树私戚，与汉桓帝时震宪陵寝同事也。
后终诛灭。
永兴二年十月丁丑，雷震。
怀帝永嘉四年十月，震电。
愍帝建兴元年十一月戊午，会稽大雨震电。
己巳夜，赤气曜于西北。
是夕，大雨震电。
庚午，大雪。
案刘同说， 雷以二月出，八月入。
今此月震电者，阳不闭藏也。
既发泄而明日便大雪，皆失节之异也。
是时，刘聪僭号平阳，李雄称制于蜀，九州幅裂，西京孤微，为君失时之象也。
赤气，赤祥也。
元帝太兴元年十一月乙卯，暴雨雷电。
永昌二年七月庚子朔，雷震太极殿柱。
十二月，会稽、吴郡雷震电。
成帝咸和元年十月己巳，会稽郡大雨震电。
三年六月辛卯，临海大雷，破郡府内小屋柱十枚，杀人。
九月二日壬午立冬，会稽雷电。
四年十一月，吴郡、会稽大震电。
穆帝永和七年十月壬午，雷雨震电。
升平元年十一月庚戌，雷。
乙丑，又雷。
五年十月庚午，雷发东南方。
孝武帝太元五年六月甲寅，雷震含章殿四柱，并杀内侍二人。
十年十二月，雷声在南方。
十四年七月甲寅，雷震，烧宣阳门西柱。
安帝隆安二年九月壬辰，雷雨。
元兴三年，永安皇后至自巴陵，将设仪导入宫，天雷震，人马各一俱殪焉。
义熙四年十一月辛卯朔，西北方疾风发。
癸丑，雷。
五年六月丙寅，雷震太庙，破东鸱尾，彻柱，又震太子西池合堂。
是时，帝不亲蒸尝，故天震之，明简宗庙也。
西池是明帝为太子时所造次，故号太子池。
及安帝多病，患无嗣，故天震之，明无后也。
六年正月丙寅，雷，又雪。
十二月壬辰，大雷。
九年十一月甲戌，雷。
乙亥，又雷。
鼓妖惠帝元康九年三月，有声若牛，出许昌城。
translation: 
At this time, Empress Jia framed the three ministers and favored and trusted her relatives, which was the same as Emperor Mohuan when lightning struck the Xianling mausoleum.
After buying it, he was eventually executed and his family was exterminated.
In October of the second year of Yongxing, there was thunder.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, there was thunder and lightning.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, there was heavy rain and thunder and lightning in Kuaiji County.
At night, there was red air shining in the northwest.
That night, there was heavy rain and thunder.
Gengwu, it snowed heavily.
Liu Xiang said that thunder appeared in February and subsided in August.
Now that there is thunder and lightning in this month, it means that Yang Qi has not retreated and converged.
It snowed heavily the day after I vented my anger, and I felt weird and out of control.
At this time, Liu Zai cares about Yang and claims the title of emperor, Li Xiong establishes political power in Shu, the world is divided, and Xijing is isolated and weak, which is a sign that the monarch has lost his time.
Chi Qi means red color symbolizes auspiciousness.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was heavy rain and lightning.
On the first day of the seventh month in the second year of Yongchang, lightning struck the pillars of Tai Chi Hall.
In December, there were thunder and lightning in Kuaiji and Wu counties.
In October of the first year of Emperor Cheng's Xianhe reign, there was heavy rain and thunder and lightning in Kuaiji County.
In the sixth month of the third year of Xinmao, there was a big thunder near the sea. It broke ten pillars of the hut in the county mansion and killed people.
On September 2nd, the beginning of winter at Renwu, there was thunder and lightning in Kuaiji.
In November of the fourth year, there was thunder and lightning again in Wujun and Kuaiji.
In the tenth month of the seventh year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, there was a thunderstorm and electric shock.
In the eleventh month of the first year of Shengping, there was thunder.
Yi Chou, thunder struck again.
On Gengwu day in October of the fifth year, thunder occurred in the southeast.
In the sixth month of Jiayin in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowu's Taiyuan period, lightning struck four pillars in Hanzhang'e, killing two chamberlains at the same time.
In December of the 10th year, there was thunder in the south.
In July of the 14th year of Jiayin, there was a thunderstorm and the west pillar of Xuanyang Gate was burned.
In the ninth month of the second year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a thunderstorm.
In the third year of Yuanxing, Queen Yong'an came from Baling and was about to set up a guard of honor to lead the palace into the palace. There was a thunderstorm and one person and one horse were killed.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the fourth year of Yixi, there was a strong wind blowing from the northwest.
Guichou, thunder.
In the sixth month of the fifth year, Bingyin, thunder and lightning struck the Ancestral Temple, breaking the decoration of the beamed roof, penetrating the pillars, and hitting the hall of the Prince's West Pool.
At that time, Emperor An did not hold the autumn and winter sacrifices in person, so lightning struck from the sky, indicating that he was neglecting the ancestral temple.
Xichi is where Emperor Ming stayed when he was the crown prince, so it is called Prince Pond.
When Emperor An was sick, he was worried that he would not have an heir, so he was struck by lightning, indicating that he had no descendants.
In the first month of the sixth year, Bingyin, there was thunder and snow.
On Renchen in December, there was a big thunder.
In November of the ninth year of Jiaxu, there was thunder.
Yihai, there is thunder again.
In March of the ninth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a sound like a cow's braying came out of Xuchang City.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
十二月，废愍怀太子，幽于许宫。
明年，贾后遣黄门孙虑杀太子，击以药杵，声闻于外，是其应也。
苏峻在历阳外营，将军鼓自鸣，如人弄鼓者。
峻手自破之，曰： 我乡土时有此，则城空矣。
俄而作乱夷灭，此听不聪之罚也。
石季龙末，洛阳城西北九里，石牛在青石趺上，忽鸣，声闻四十里。
季龙遣人打落两耳及尾，铁钉钉四脚。
寻而季龙死。
孝武太元十五年三月己酉朔，东北方有声如雷。
案刘向说，以为 雷当托于云，犹君托于臣。
无云而雷，此君不恤于下，下人将叛之象也。
及帝崩而天下渐乱，孙恩、桓玄交陵京邑。
吴兴长城夏架山有石鼓，长丈余，面迳三尺许，下有盘石为足，鸣则声如金鼓，三吴有兵。
至安帝隆安中大鸣，后有孙恩之乱。
鱼孽魏齐王嘉平四年五月，有二鱼集于武库屋上，此鱼孽也。
王肃曰： 鱼生于水，而亢于屋，介鳞之物，失其所也。
边将其殆有弃甲之变乎！
后果有东关之败。
干宝又以为高贵乡公兵祸之应。
二说皆与班固旨同。
武帝太康中，有鲤鱼二见武库屋上。
干宝以为： 武库兵府，鱼有鳞甲，亦兵类也。
鱼既极阴，屋上太阳，鱼见屋上，象至阴以兵革之祸干太阳也。
至惠帝初，诛杨骏，废太后，矢交馆阁。
元康末，贾后谤杀太子，寻亦诛废。
十年之间，母后之难再兴，是其应也，自是祸乱构矣。
京房《易传》曰： 鱼去水，飞入道路，兵且作。
蝗虫《春秋》，螽。
刘歆从介虫之孽，与鱼同占。
魏文帝黄初三年七月，冀州大蝗，人饥。
案蔡邕说， 蝗者，在上贪苛之所致也 。
translation: 
In December, Prince Minhuai was deposed and imprisoned in Xu Palace.
The next year, Empress Jia sent Huangmen Sunlu to kill the prince and beat him with a pestle. The sound was heard outside the palace, which was a sign of his death.
Su Jun was in the barracks outside Liyang City. The general's drum sounded by itself, as if someone was playing with the drum.
Su Jun broke the drum with his own hands and said: Sometimes this happens in my hometown, and the city becomes empty.
Not long after, he rebelled and was killed, which was a punishment for being indifferent.
In the last years of Shi Jilong's life, nine miles northwest of Luoyang City, a stone cow was sitting on a bluestone foot. Suddenly it howled, and the sound spread for forty miles.
Shi Jilong sent people to knock off the ears and tail of the stone cow and nail its four feet with iron nails.
Shi Jilong died soon after.
On the first day of the third month of the fifteenth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, there was a sound like thunder in the northeast.
Liu Xiang said that he believed that thunder should rely on clouds, just like a king relies on his ministers.
If there are no clouds but thunder, this is a sign that the king is not considerate of his subjects and that they will rebel.
After Xiaowutong died and the world gradually became chaotic, Sun En and Huan Xuan invaded the capital one after another.
There is a stone drum on Xiajia Mountain of the Wuxing Great Wall, which is more than one foot long and has a diameter of about three feet. There is a rock underneath for support. When it sounds, it sounds like a golden drum. There is a war in the three counties.
During the Long'an period of Emperor An, there was a loud noise, and later there was the Huanmo Rebellion.
In May of the fourth year of King Jiaping of Wei Qi, two fish fell on the roof of the arsenal. This was a fish evil.
Wang Su said: Fish are born in the water, but they are as high as the roof. They are scaly animals and have lost their place.
Border generals will have to abandon their mail armor!
Later, there was indeed the defeat of Dongguan.
Wang Mo also thought it was a sign of the military disaster of Gaogui Township.
Both statements are the same as what Ban Gu said.
During the Taikang period of Emperor Wu, carp appeared twice on the arsenal house.
Wang Xuan believes: The arsenal is the weapons department, and fish have scales and armor, which is also a category of soldiers.
The fish is extremely yin, and the house is the sun. The fish appearing on the house symbolizes the extremely yin invading the sun with the disaster of war.
In the early years of Emperor Hui's reign, Gui was killed, the Queen Mother was deposed, and bows and arrows were fired at each other in the pavilions.
In the last years of Yuan Chen, he was framed and killed by the prince, and he was soon deposed and punished.
In ten years, the disaster caused by the mother happened twice. This was a sign, and the disaster took shape from then on.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When fish leave the water and fly onto the road, war is about to happen.
"Spring and Autumn", locusts are katydids.
Liu Xin regarded it as a monster of beetles, which is the same as the divination of fish monsters.
In July of the third year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei, there was a severe locust plague in Jizhou and the people were famine.
Cai Yong said that the locust plague was caused by the Lord's greed and harshness.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是时，孙权归顺，帝因其有西陵之役，举大众袭之，权遂背叛也。
武帝泰始十年六月，蝗。
是时，荀、贾任政，疾害公直。
惠帝永宁元年，郡国六蝗。
怀帝永嘉四年五月，大蝗，自幽、并、司、冀至于秦雍，草木牛马毛鬣皆尽。
是时，天下兵乱，渔猎黔黎，存亡所继，惟司马越、苟晞而已。
竞为暴刻，经略无章，故有此孽。
愍帝建兴四年六月，大蝗。
去岁刘曜频攻北地、冯翊，麹允等悉众御之，卒为刘曜所破，西京遂溃。
五年，帝在平阳，司、冀、青、雍螽。
元帝太兴元年六月，兰陵合乡蝗，害禾稼。
乙未，东莞蝗虫纵广三百里，害苗稼。
七月，东海、彭城、下邳、临淮四郡蝗虫害禾豆。
八月，冀、青、徐三州蝗，食生草尽，至于二年。
是时，中州沦丧，暴乱滋甚也。
二年五月，淮陵、临淮、淮南、安丰、庐江等五郡蝗虫食秋麦。
是月癸丑，徐州及扬州江西诸郡蝗，吴郡百姓多饿死。
是年，王敦并领荆州，苛暴之衅自此兴矣。
孝武帝太元十五年八月，兗州蝗。
是时，慕容氏逼河南，征戍不已，故有斯孽。
十六年五月，飞蝗从南来，集堂邑县界，害苗稼。
是年春，发江州兵营甲士二千人，家口六七千，配护军及东宫，后寻散亡殆尽。
又边将连有征役，故有斯孽。
豕祸吴孙皓宝鼎元年，野豕入右大司马丁奉营，此豕祸也。
后奉见遣攻谷阳，无功而反。
皓怒，斩其导军。
及举大众北出，奉及万彧等相谓曰： 若至华里，不得不各自还也。
此谋泄，奉时虽已死，皓追讨谷阳事，杀其子温，家属皆远徙，豕祸之应也。
translation: 
At this time, Sun Quan surrendered. Emperor Wen took advantage of the battle between Xiling and Shu to launch a large army to attack him, and Sun Quan betrayed him.
In June of the tenth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a locust plague.
At this time, Xun and Jia were in power and persecuted just and upright people.
In the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongning reign, locust plagues occurred six times in the county.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, there was a great plague of locusts. From You, Bing, Si, and Ji to Qin and Yong, all vegetation, cattle and horses were eaten away.
At this time, the world was in chaos and the common people were being invaded. Only Sima Yue and Gou Xi could decide life or death.
The competition is cruel and harsh, and there are no laws and regulations in governance, so there are monsters like this.
In June of the fourth year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, there was a great locust plague.
Last year, Liu Yao attacked Beidi and Feng Yi many times. Qu Yun and others led all his troops to resist him, but were finally defeated by Liu Yao, and Xijing was defeated.
In the fifth year, when Emperor Min was in Pingyang, there was a locust plague in Sizhou, Jizhou, Qingzhou, and Yongzhou.
In June of the first year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was a locust plague in Hexiang, Lanling, which damaged crops.
Yiwei, locusts spread across three hundred miles in Dongguan, damaging crops and seedlings.
In July, locusts damaged crops and beans in Shuhai, Pengcheng, Xiapi and Linhuai counties.
In August, there was a plague of locusts in Ji, Qing, and Xuzhou, which ate up all the growing grass for two years.
At this time, Zhongzhou fell and the riots became increasingly serious.
In May of the second year, locusts ate autumn wheat in the five counties of Huailing, Linhuai, Huainan, Anfeng and Lujiang.
In the month of Guichou, there was a locust plague in Xuzhou and Yangzhou counties west of Jiangxi. Many people in Wu County starved to death.
At that time, Wang Dun also led Jingzhou, and the disaster of harshness and cruelty began.
In August of the fifteenth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign in Taiyuan, there was a locust plague in Yanzhou.
When he was sent, Man Rongdan forced Dong Huinan, and the conquests continued, so there was such a monster.
In May of the 16th year, migratory locusts came from the south and gathered in Tangkenxuan, damaging the seedlings and crops.
In the spring of this year, 2,000 soldiers from the Liaoye Barracks and 6,000 to 7,000 family members were recruited and assigned to the guard army and the East Palace. Soon after, almost all of them fled.
In addition, the soldiers on the border continued to work in battles, so there were such monsters.
In the first year of Wu Sun Haobao Ding's reign, a wild boar entered the Youda Si Martin Feng military camp. This was a pig disaster.
Later, Ding Feng was sent to attack Guyang, but returned without success.
Sun Hao became angry and killed his leading officer.
When it came time to mobilize the army to march north, Ding Feng, Wan You and others said to each other: If they reach Huali, they will have to return separately.
The conspiracy was exposed. Although Ding Feng was already dead at that time, Sun Hao pursued the crusade against Guyang and killed his son Ding Wen. His family members were exiled to distant places. This was a sign of the pig disaster.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
龚遂曰， 山野之兽，来入宫室，宫室将空 ，又其象也。
怀帝永嘉中，寿春城内有豕生两头而不活。
周馥取而观之，时识者云： 豕，北方畜，胡狄象。
两头者，无上也。
生而死，不遂也。
天戒若曰，勿生专利之谋，将自致倾覆也。
周馥不寤，遂欲迎天子令诸侯，俄为元帝所败，是其应也。
石勒亦寻渡淮，百姓死者十有其九。
元帝建武元年，有豕生八足，此听不聪之罚，又所任邪也。
是后有刘隗之变。
成帝咸和六年六月，钱唐人家豭豕产两子，而皆人面，如胡人状，其身犹豕。
京房《易妖》曰： 豕生人头豕身者，危且乱。
今此豭豕而产，异之甚者也。
孝武帝太元十年四月，京都有豚一头二脊八足。
十三年，京都人家豕产子，一头二身八足，并与建武同妖也。
是后，宰相沈酗，不恤朝政，近习用事，渐乱国纲，至于大坏也。
黑眚黑祥孝怀帝永嘉五年十二月，黑气四塞，近黑祥也。帝寻沦陷，王室丘墟，是其应也。
愍帝建兴二年正月己已朔，黑雾著人如墨，连夜，五日乃止，此近黑祥也。
其四年，帝降刘曜。
元帝永昌元年十月，京师大雾，黑气蔽天，日月无光。
十一月，帝崩。
火沴水武帝太康五年六月，任城、鲁国池水皆赤如血。
案刘向说，近水沴水，听之不聪之罚也。
京房《易传》曰： 君淫于色，贤人潜，国家危，厥异水流赤。
穆帝升平三年二月，凉州城东池中有火。
四年四月，姑臧泽水中又有火。
此火沴水之妖也。
明年，张天锡杀中护军张邕。
邕，执政之人也。
安帝元兴二年十月，钱唐临平湖水赤，桓玄讽吴郡使言开除以为己瑞，俄而桓玄败。
《传》曰： 思心之不容，是谓不圣，厥咎，厥罚恆风，厥极凶短折。
translation: 
Gong Sui said, "When wild beasts enter the palace, the palace will be empty. This is another sign."
During the Yongjia period of Emperor Huai, a sow in Shouchun City gave birth to two piglets, but they did not survive. Zhou Fu took them for inspection.
Knowledgeable people at that time said: Pigs are animals from the north and are the symbol of Hu Di.
The two ends are not up.
It cannot be accomplished by dying immediately after birth.
Tian Jie said this: Do not make plans solely for profit, otherwise you will lead to your own destruction.
Zhou Fu could not wake up, so he wanted to coerce the emperor to order the princes, but was soon defeated by Emperor Yuan. This was a sign.
Soon Shi Le also crossed the Huaihe River, and nine out of ten people died.
In the first year of Emperor Jianwu of the Yuan Dynasty, a pig grew eight legs. This was a punishment for being indifferent and a punishment for those who allowed evil.
After that, there was Liu Wei's change.
In June of the sixth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, a boar from a family in Qiantang gave birth to two offspring. Both had human faces, resembling barbarians, but their bodies were still pig's.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: Pigs giving birth to things with human heads and pig bodies are dangerous and bring disaster.
Nowadays, when boars give birth, the evil is even more serious.
In April of the 10th year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, a pig in Kyoto had two spines and eight legs.
In the thirteenth year, a pig in Kyoto gave birth to piglets with one head, two bodies and eight legs, all of which were the same as the monsters during the Jianwu period.
After that, the prime minister indulged in alcoholism and ignored the government affairs. People close to him took power and gradually messed up the country's principles and disciplines until he was defeated.
In the twelfth month of the fifth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, black air spread in all directions, almost black and auspicious. Emperor Xiaohuai soon fell, and the royal family became a deserted hill and ruins, which was a sign of his death.
On the first day of the first month of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, black mist clung to people's bodies like ink. It lasted for several nights and five days before it ended. It was almost a black mist.
In the fourth year, Emperor Min surrendered to Liu Yao.
In October of the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, there was heavy fog in the capital, black air covered the sky, and the sun and moon lacked light.
In November, Emperor Yuan died.
In the sixth month of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign in Taikang, the water in Ren Yue and Dieyu's cities was as red as blood.
Xi Roo said that it was close to fire overcoming water, and it was a punishment for those who listened but refused to comply.
Zhiqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: The king is fond of women, the wise men are hidden, the country is in danger, and the strange sign is that the water is red.
In February of the third year of Emperor Mu's reign, there was a fire in Liangzhou City.
In April of the fourth year, there was fire again in the water in Guzang.
This is the magic of fire overcoming water.
The next year, Zhang Tianxi killed Zhang Yong, the central guard.
Zhang Yong is the one who holds the power.
In October of the second year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, the water of Linping Lake in Qiantang turned red. Huanxuan persuaded Wu County to order the removal as a good omen. Soon after, Huanxuan failed.
"Zhuan" says: If the mind and heart are not allowed, it is called unholy. The disaster is dark weather, the punishment is continuous wind, and the result is early death.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
时则有脂夜之妖，时则有华孽，时则有牛祸，时则有心腹之痾，时则有黄眚黄祥，时则有金木水火沴土。
思心不容，是谓不圣。
思心者，心思虑也。
容，宽也。孔子曰： 居上不宽，吾何以观之哉！
言上不宽大包容，臣下则不能居圣位。
貌言视听，以心为主，四进皆失，则区无识，故其咎也。
雨旱寒燠，亦以风为本，四气皆乱，故其罚恆风也。
恆风伤物，故其极凶短折也。
伤人曰凶，禽兽曰短，草木曰折。
一曰，凶，夭也；兄丧弟曰短，父丧子曰折。
在人，腹中肥而包裹心者，脂也。
心区则冥晦，故有脂夜之妖。
一曰，有脂物而夜为妖，若脂夜污人衣，淫之象也。
一曰，夜妖者，云风并起而杳冥，故与常风同象也。
温而风则生螟螣，有裸虫之孽。
刘向以为： 于《易》，《巽》为风，为木。
卦在三月四月，继阳而治，主木之华实。
风气盛至，秋冬木复华，故有华孽。
一曰，地气盛同秋冬复华。
一曰，华者色也，土为内事，谓女孽也。
于《易》，《坤》为土，为牛。
牛大心而不能思虑，心气毁，故有牛祸。
一曰，牛多死及为怪，亦是也。
及人，则多病心腹者，故有心腹之痾。
土色黄，故有黄眚黄祥。
凡思心伤者，病土气；土气病，则金木水火沴之，故曰时则有金木水火沴土。
不言 惟 而独曰 时则有 者，非一冲气所沴，明其异大也。
其极凶短折者，顺之，其福曰考终命。
刘歆《思心传》曰： 时有臝虫之孽，谓螟螣之属也。
庶征恆风
魏齐王正始九年十一月，大风数十日，发屋折树。
十二月戊午晦尤甚，动太极东阁。
translation: 
Sometimes there may be demons of fat night, sometimes there may be flower evils, sometimes there may be cow troubles, sometimes there may be strange diseases in close friends, sometimes there may be yellow disasters and yellow signs of auspiciousness, sometimes there may be metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming the earth.
If your mind and heart don't allow it, this is called unholiness.
Thinking about the heart is thinking about the mind. Capacity means tolerance.
Confucius said: If the superior is not tolerant, how can I observe him?
It means that if the master is not tolerant and tolerant, his subordinates will not be able to occupy virtuous positions.
Appearance, speech, vision, and hearing are dominated by the heart. If all four are lost, then there will be darkness, so the disaster will be dark weather.
Rainfall, drought, cold, and heat are also wind-based, and the four qi are chaotic, so the penalty is continuous wind.
Continuous wind harms all things, so it is extremely short-lived.
Injury to people is called fierce, injury to animals is called short, injury to vegetation is called broken.
One thing is that bad luck is from heaven; when a brother loses a younger brother, it is called short, and when a father loses a son, it is called zhe.
For people, the fat in the belly and surrounding the heart is fat.
When the mind is dim, it is dark and unclear, so there is the demon of fat night.
One theory is that fat things become monsters at night, just like fat and water staining people's clothes at night, which is a sign of sexual immorality.
One theory is that night demons are clouds and winds that appear simultaneously and are dark and unclear, so they have the same symptoms as regular winds.
When it is warm and windy, moths and naked insects will appear.
Liu Xiang believes: In "Yi", "Xun" is wind and wood.
The hexagram is in March and April, following the Yang and governing the flowering and fruiting of vegetation.
The wind is strong, and the vegetation will bloom again in autumn and winter, so there are flowers.
It is said that if the earth's energy is strong, it will bloom again in autumn and winter.
When I say it, Hua means color, earth means internal affairs, and it refers to female evildoers.
In "Yi", "Kun" is soil, which refers to cow.
The cow has a big heart but cannot think, and the heart energy is damaged, so the cow is in trouble.
It is also correct to say that many cows die and become monsters.
For people, most of the time their close friends are sick, so they have strange illnesses in their close friends.
The color of earth is yellow, so there are yellow disasters and yellow auspiciousness.
Anyone whose thoughts and minds are hurt is caused by earthy energy. When earthy energy is sick, metal, wood, water, and fire will overcome earth. Therefore, it is said that metal, wood, water, fire, and earth may sometimes overcome earth.
Instead of saying that there is only sex, saying that sometimes there is sex is not a kind of restraint, which shows that it is very strange.
Its extreme is bad luck, short break, obedience, and its blessing is called test of death.
Suda's "Si Xin Zhuan" says: Sometimes there are evil insects, which refers to moths and the like.
The sign is continued wind.
In November of the ninth year of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, strong winds occurred for dozens of days, overturning houses and destroying trees.
The Wuwu Festival at the end of December was particularly serious, shaking the Donghe of Taiji Hall.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
嘉平元年正月壬辰朔，西北大风，发屋折树木，昏尘蔽天。
案管辂说，此为时刑大臣，执政之忧也。
是时，曹爽区自专，骄僭过度，天戒数见，终不改革，此思心不睿，恆风之罚也。
后逾旬而爽等诛灭。
京房《易传》曰： 众逆同志，至德乃潜，厥异风。
其风也，行不解，物不长，雨小而伤。
政悖德隐兹谓乱，厥风先风不雨，大风暴起，发屋折木。
守义不进兹谓眊，厥风与云俱起，折五谷茎。
臣易上政兹谓不顺，厥风大飙发屋。
赋敛不理兹谓祸，厥风绝经纪，止即温，温即虫。
侯专封兹谓不统，厥风疾而树不摇，谷不成。
辟不思道利兹谓无泽，厥风不摇木，旱无云，伤禾。
公常于利兹谓乱，厥风微而温，生虫蝗，害五谷。
弃政作淫兹谓惑，厥风温，螟虫起，害有益人之物。
诸侯不朝兹谓畔，厥风无恆，地变赤，雨杀人。
吴孙权太元元年八月朔，大风，江海涌溢，平地水深八尺，拔高陵树二千株，石碑蹉动，吴城两门飞落。
案华核对，役繁赋重，区不容之罚也。
明年，权薨。
孙亮建兴元年十二月丙申，大风震电。
是岁，魏遣大众三道来攻，诸葛恪破其东兴军，二军亦退。
明年，恪又攻新城，丧众太半，还，伏诛。
孙休永安元年十一月甲午，风四转五复，蒙雾连日。
是时，孙綝一门五侯，权倾吴主，风雾之灾，与汉五侯、丁、傅同应也。
十二月丁卯夜，有大风，发木扬沙。
明日，綝诛。
translation: 
On Renchen, the first day of the first month of the first year of Jiaping, there was a strong wind from the northwest, overturning houses and breaking trees, and dark flying dust covered the sky.
Jurisdiction said that this was the worry of killing ministers and governing at that time.
When he was sent, Cao Shuang was ignorant and arbitrary, arrogant and overbearing. God's warnings appeared many times and he never changed his ways. This was a punishment for his unwise thoughts and continuous strong winds.
More than ten years later, Cao Shuang and others were executed and their clans were reduced.
Jingqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: When the people rebel against the same aspirations, people with extremely high virtues cannot hide, and there are strange trends.
If the wind lasts for a long time, all things cannot grow; if the rain is light, it will cause damage.
When politically ignorant and virtuous people retreat, this is called chaos. The wind blows first but does not rain, and strong winds rise suddenly, overturning houses and destroying trees.
Maintaining righteousness but not advancing is called ignorance. The wind rises with the clouds and breaks the stalks of the grain.
When a subordinate takes the place of his superior in power, this is called disobedience, and the strong wind blows and overthrows the house.
If taxes are collected without management, this is called disaster. The wind will cut off the law. When the wind stops, there will be warmth, and when the warmth is warm, there will be insects.
The princes and kings arbitrarily divide the land into feudal states, which is called disunity. The wind is swift but the trees cannot shake and the grains cannot mature.
Rejecting and not thinking about moral interests is called being ruthless. The wind does not shake the trees, the drought is cloudless, and it harms the seedlings.
The public minister often pays attention to the wind, which is called chaos. The wind is weak and gentle, causing insects and locusts to harm the grain.
Abandoning political affairs and engaging in sexual immorality is called confusion. The wind is gentle, causing borers to appear and damage crops that are beneficial to people.
If the princes do not come to pay homage, it is called rebellion. The wind is unstable, the ground turns red, and the rain causes disasters and kills people.
On the first day of August in the first year of Taiyuan of Wu Sunquan, there was a strong wind. The rivers and seas surged and overflowed. The water on the plains was eight feet deep. Two thousand trees in Gaoling were uprooted. The stone tablets shook and cracked, and two gates of Wucheng fell down.
Hua Sou's response was that the many corvees and heavy taxes were a punishment for ignorance and intolerance.
The next year, Sun Quan died.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Jianxing reign of Sun Liang, there was strong wind and thunder and lightning.
In the year of Han, Wei sent a large army to attack in three directions. Zhuge Ke defeated Shu Xing's army and the other two armies also retreated.
The next year, Zhuge Ke attacked Xincheng again and lost most of his troops. He returned and was executed.
In November of the first year of Sun Xiu's reign, the wind turned five times and the fog continued for several days.
At that time, five members of Jianchui's family were granted the title of marquis, and their power exceeded that of the Xi monarch. The misfortune of wind and fog was the same as the omen of the five marquises, Gong, and Chuan who fell into the mold.
On the night of Ding Mao in December, there was a strong wind, uprooting trees and raising sand and dust.
The next day, Luo Ji was killed.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
武帝泰始五年五月辛卯朔，广平大风，折木。
咸宁元年五月，下邳、广陵大风，坏千余家，折树木。
其月甲申，广陵、司吾、下邳大风，折木。
三年八月，河间大风，折木。
太康二年五月，济南暴风，折木，伤麦。
六月，高平大风，折木，发坏邸阁四十余区。
七月，上党又大风，伤秋稼。
八年六月，郡国八大风。
九年正月，京都风雹，发屋拔树。
后二年，宫车晏驾。
惠帝元康四年六月，大风雨，拔木。
五年四月庚寅夜，暴风，城东渠波浪杀人。
七月，下邳大风，坏庐舍。
九月，雁门、新兴、太原、上党灾风伤稼。
明年，氐羌反叛，大兵西讨。
九年六月，飙风吹贾谧朝服飞数百丈。
明年，谧诛。
十一月甲子朔，京都连大风，发屋折木。
十二月，愍怀太子废，幽于许昌。
永康元年二月，大风拔木。
三月，愍怀被害。
己卯，丧柩发许昌还洛。
是日，又大风雷电，帏盖飞裂。
四月，张华第舍飙风起，折木飞缯，折轴六七。
是月，华遇害。
十一月戊午朔，大风从西北来，折木飞沙石，六日止。
明年正月，赵王伦篡位。
永宁元年八月，郡国三大风。
永兴元年正月乙丑，西北大风。
赵王伦建始元年正月癸酉，赵土伦祠太庙，灾风暴起，尘四合。
其年四月，伦伏辜。
元帝永昌元年七月丙寅，大风拔木，屋瓦皆飞。
八月，暴风坏屋，拔御道柳树百余株。
其风纵横无常，若风自八方来者。
是时，王敦专权，害尚书令刁协、仆射周顗等，故风纵横若非一处也。
此臣易上政，诸侯不朝之罚也。
十一月，宫车晏驾。
translation: 
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a strong wind in Guangping and the trees were broken.
In May of the first year of Xianning, strong winds occurred in Xiapi and Guangling, destroying more than a thousand homes and breaking trees.
In Jiashen this month, there were strong winds in Guangling, Siwu, and Crafts, which broke trees.
In August of the third year, there was a strong wind and the trees were broken.
In May of the second year of Taikang, there was a storm in Jinan, which broke the trees and damaged the wheat.
In June, there was a strong wind in Gaoping, which broke trees and damaged more than 40 government buildings.
In July, strong winds hit Shangdang again, damaging autumn crops.
In June of the eighth year, there were strong winds in the county eight times.
In the first month of the ninth year, there were strong winds and hailstorms in Kyoto, which overturned houses and uprooted trees.
In the third year, Emperor Wu died.
In June of the fourth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was a strong wind and rain, which uprooted the trees.
On Gengyin night in April of the fifth year, there was a storm, and the waves in the city's canals drowned people.
In July, there was a strong wind in Xiapi, which damaged the house.
In September, strong winds damaged crops in Yanmen, Xinxing, Taiyuan and Shangdang.
The next year, the Di and Qiang rebelled and their army marched westward.
In June of the ninth year, a strong wind blew away Jia Mi's court clothes and flew several hundred feet away.
The next year, Jia Mi was killed.
On the first day of November, there were continuous strong winds in Kyoto, blowing down houses and breaking trees.
In December, Prince Bihuai was deposed and imprisoned in Xuchang.
In February of the first year of Yongkang, strong wind uprooted the trees.
In March, Prince Minhuai was killed.
On Ji Mao, the coffin left Xuchang and returned to Luoyang.
That day, there were strong winds and thunder and lightning, and the curtains and car covers flew and cracked.
In April, a strong wind blew up in Zhang Hua's mansion and buildings, breaking trees, blowing silk and silk, and breaking six or seven axles.
That month, Zhang Hua was killed.
On the first day of November, a strong wind came from the northwest, breaking trees and blowing sand and rocks. It took six days to stop.
In the first month of the second year, King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne.
In August of the first year of Yongning, there were three strong winds in the county.
In the first month of the first year of Yongxing, there was a strong wind blowing from the northwest.
In the first month of the first year of the founding of King Sima Lun, King Sima Lun of Zhao was worshiping the Ancestral Temple. A storm arose and flying dust was everywhere.
In April of this year, Sima Lun was convicted.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, strong wind uprooted the trees and blew off the roof tiles.
In August, a storm destroyed houses and uprooted more than a hundred willow trees along the road to the palace.
This wind is erratic, like wind blowing from all directions.
At this time, Wang Dun was in power and framed Shangshu Ling Diao Xie, Pushe Zhou Zhuan and others, so Feng Zongheng did not come from the same direction.
This is the punishment for the subordinates to take power on behalf of the Lord and the princes not to come to perform Hajj.
In November, the emperor died.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
成帝咸康四年三月壬辰，成都大风，发屋折木。
四月，李寿袭杀李期，自立。
穆帝升平元年八月丁未，策立皇后何氏。
是日，疾风。
后桓玄篡位，乃降后为零陵县君，不睿之罚也。
五年正月戊戌朔，疾风。
海西公太和六年二月，大风迅急，是年被废。
孝武帝宁康元年三月，京都大风，火大起。
是时，桓温入朝，志在陵上，帝又幼少，人怀忧恐，斯不睿之征也。
三年三月戊申朔，暴风迅起，从丑上来，须臾逆转，从子上来，飞沙扬砾。
太元二年二月乙丑朔，暴风折木。
闰三月甲子朔，暴风疾雨俱至，发屋折木。
三年六月，长安大风，拔苻坚宫中树。
其后，坚再南伐，遂有淝水之败，身戮国亡。
四年八月乙未，暴风扬沙石。
十二年正月壬子夜，暴风。
七月甲辰，大风折木。
十三年十二月乙未，大风，昼晦。
其后帝崩而诸侯违命，权夺于元显，祸成于桓玄，是其应也。
十七年六月乙卯，大风折木。
安帝元兴二年二月甲辰夜，大风雨，大航门屋瓦飞落。
明年，桓玄篡位，由此门入。
三年正月，桓玄出游大航南，飘风飞其卑輗盖，经三月而玄败归江陵。
五月，江陵又大风折木。
是月，桓玄败于峥嵘洲，身亦屠裂。
十一月丁酉，大风，江陵多死者。
义熙四年十一月辛卯朔，西北疾风起。
五年闰十月丁亥，大风发屋。
明年，卢循至蔡洲。
六年五月壬申，大风拔北郊树，树几百年也。
并吹琅邪、扬州二射堂倒坏。
是日，卢循大艦漂没。
甲戌，又风，发屋折木。
是冬，王师南讨。
九年正月，大风，白马寺浮图刹柱折坏。
十年四月己丑朔，大风拔木。
六月辛亥，大风拔木。
七月，淮北大风，坏庐舍。
明年，西讨司马休之应。
夜妖魏高贵乡公正元二年正月戊戌，景帝讨毌丘俭，大风晦暝，行者皆顿伏，近夜妖也。
刘向曰： 正昼而暝，阴为阳，臣制君也。
元帝景元三年十月，京都大震，昼晦，此夜妖也。
班固曰： 夜妖者，云风并起而杳冥，故与常风同象也。
translation: 
In the third month of Renchen, the fourth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, there was a strong wind in Chengdu, which blew down houses and broke trees.
In April, Li Shou attacked and killed Li Qi and proclaimed himself king.
In the seventh month of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Jinling and Wujun were affected by the wind. In the eighth month of the first year of Emperor Mu's rise to peace, he decided to establish the Queen He family.
That day, there was strong wind.
Later, Huanxuan usurped the throne and demoted the queen to be the king of Lingling County, which was a punishment for unwiseness.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, there was a strong wind.
In February of the sixth year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, there was a strong wind. In the year of Qian, Haixi Gong was deposed.
In March of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, there was a strong wind in Kyoto and a fire broke out.
At this time, Huan Wen entered the court and wanted to invade the emperor. Emperor Xiaowu was still young, so people were worried and fearful. This was an unwise sign.
On the first day of March in the third year of Wushen, a storm came quickly, blowing from the Chou position, and quickly changed direction, blowing from the Zi position, raising sand, dust and gravel.
On the first day of the second lunar month in the second year of Taiyuan, a storm broke the trees.
On the first day of the third month of leap month, a storm came, knocking down houses and breaking trees.
In June of the third year, there was a strong wind in Chang'an, which uprooted the trees in Fu Jian's palace.
After that, Fu Jian went south again to conquer, but was defeated at Feishui and died.
At the end of August in the fourth year, a storm blew up sand and rocks.
On the night of Renzi in the first month of the twelfth year, there was a storm.
On the first day of the seventh month, strong winds broke the trees.
At the end of December of the thirteenth year, there was a strong wind and the day was dark.
After that, when the emperor died and the princes disobeyed the imperial orders, their power was seized by Wu Ti, and disasters were caused by Pan, which was a sign.
On Yimao, June of the seventeenth year, strong winds broke the trees.
On the night of Jiachen in February of the second year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, there was a heavy storm and the roof tiles of Dahangmen were blown off.
In the second year, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and entered through this gate.
In the first month of the third year, Huanxuan traveled to Dahangnan. A whirlwind blew away the hood of his Han-wan chariot. Three months later, Huanxuan failed and returned to Jianglu.
In May, strong winds broke trees again.
That month, Huan Xuan was defeated in Junyibi and his body was cut into pieces.
There was a strong wind on Dingyou in November, and many people died in Jiangling.
On the first day of the eleventh month of the fourth year of Yixi, there was a strong wind in the northwest.
In the leap tenth month of the fifth year, a strong wind blew down the house.
The next year, Lu Xun visited the tomb.
In May of the sixth year of Renshen's reign, strong winds uprooted the trees in the northern suburbs. The trees had grown for hundreds of years.
At the same time, the two shooting halls in Langye and Yangzhou were blown down and destroyed.
On this day, Lu Xun's ship drifted and sank.
In Jiaxu, there was another strong wind, which blew down the houses and broke the trees.
That winter, the imperial army marched south.
In the first month of the ninth year, there was a strong wind, and the pillars of the White Horse Temple were broken and destroyed.
On the first day of April of the tenth year, strong winds uprooted the trees.
In June of Xinhai, strong wind uprooted the trees.
In July, there was a strong wind in Huaibei, which destroyed the houses.
In the second year, he went west to conquer Sima Xiu.
In the first month of the 52nd year of Zhenggong in Gaogui Township, Wei Dynasty, Xingyi was conquering Danqiu Jun. A strong wind blew, the sky was dark, and pedestrians stopped and approached the night demon.
Xingzhi said: It is daytime but it is dim, yin becomes yang, the minister controls the monarch.
In October of the third year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, a great earthquake occurred in Kyoto. The day was dark and it was a night demon.
Ban Gu said: Night demons are dark and dark when wind and clouds arise at the same time, so they are the same as the signs of regular wind.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
刘向《春秋说》云： 天戒若曰，勿使大夫世官，将令专事。
暝晦，公室卑矣。
魏见此妖，晋有天下之应也。
怀帝永嘉四年十月辛卯，昼昏，至于庚子，此夜妖也。
后年，刘曜寇洛川，王师频为贼所败，帝蒙尘于平阳。
孝武帝太元十三年十二月乙未，大风晦暝。
其后帝崩，而诸侯违命，干戈内侮，权夺于元显，祸成于桓玄。
臝虫之孽京房《易传》曰： 臣安禄位兹谓贪，厥灾虫食根。
德无常兹谓烦，虫食叶。
不绌无德，虫食本。
与东作争兹谓不时，虫食茎。
蔽恶生孽，虫食心。
武帝咸宁元年七月，郡国螟。
九月。青州又螟。
是月，郡国有青虫食其禾稼。
四年，司、冀、兗、豫、荆、扬郡国二十螟。
太康四年，会稽彭蜞及蟹皆化为鼠，甚众，复大食稻为灾。
九年八月，郡国二十四螟。
九月，虫又伤秋稼。
是时，帝听谗谀，宠任贾充、杨骏，故有虫蝗之灾，不绌无德之罚。
惠帝元康三年九月，带方等六县螟，食禾叶尽。
永宁元年七月，梁、益、凉三州螟。
是时，齐王冏执政，贪苛之应也。
十月，南安、巴西、江阳、太原、新兴、北海青虫食禾叶，甚者十伤五六。
十二月，郡国六螟。
牛祸武帝太康九年，幽州塞北有死牛头语，近牛祸也。
是时，帝多疾病，深以后事为念，而托付不以至公，思瞀乱之应也。
则有非言之物而言。
又其义也。
京房《易传》曰： 杀无罪，牛生妖。
惠帝太安中，江夏张骋所乘牛言曰： 天下乱，乘我何之！
translation: 
"Liu Xiang Chunqiu Shuo" said: Tian Jie said this, don't let the officials have hereditary official positions, which will make them arbitrary.
The sky is dark and the royal family is in decline.
The appearance of such monsters in Wei is a sign that Jin will dominate the world.
In the tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, Xin Mao, the day was dark until Gengzi, which was the night demon.
In the third year, Liu Yao invaded Luoyang, and the imperial army was defeated by the enemy many times. Emperor Huai went into exile in Pingyang.
In the late twelfth month of the fifty-third year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, there was a strong wind and the sky was dark.
After that, Yu Genyou died, and the princes disobeyed the imperial order and raised troops to invade the capital. The power was seized by Yuan Xian, and the disaster was caused by Huan Xuan.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: When ministers are content with their salaries and official positions, this is called greed, and the disaster is that worms eat the roots.
Virtue cannot be maintained for a long time and is called annoying, and insects eat the leaves.
If you do not demote the immoral, the worms will eat the stems and roots.
This is called fighting with the bunches from time to time, and the stem insects eat them.
Ignorance and evil produce monsters, and worms eat away at the heart.
In July of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, there were borers in the county.
In September, borers appeared again in Qingzhou.
That month, there were caterpillars in the county that ate up the crops.
In four years, there were twenty borer infestations in the counties of Sizhou, Jizhou, Yanzhou, Yuzhou, Jingzhou, and Yangzhou.
In the fourth year of Taikang, there were many Pengchu and crabs in Kuaiji County who turned into rats. There were so many of them that they ate rice and became a disaster.
In August of the ninth year, there were borers in twenty-four counties.
In September, insects damaged autumn crops again.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Emperor Wu listened to slanderous words and favored Yong Maichong and Yang Jun. Therefore, there was a plague of locusts, which was a punishment for those who did not demote or retreat without virtue.
In September of the third year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, there were borers in six counties including Daifang, which ate up all the leaves of the seedlings.
In July of the first year of Yongning, there were borers in Liangzhou, Yizhou and Liangzhou.
At this time, King Sima Tong of Qi took control of the government, which was a sign of greed and harshness.
In October, caterpillars ate the leaves of rice seedlings in Nan'an, Brazil, Jiangyang, Taiyuan, Xinxing, and Beihai, causing serious injuries.
In December, borers appeared six times in the county.
In the ninth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign, a dead bull's head spoke in the northern part of Youzhou, which was close to a bull disaster.
At this time, Emperor Wu was very sick and cared about his posthumous affairs. However, the unfair entrustment was a sign of confusion.
Shi Kuang said: When people complain, there is something that does not speak but speaks.
That's what it means.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If you kill an innocent person, the cow will produce monsters.
When Emperor Hui was in Tai'an, the ox ridden by Zhang Cheng of Jiangxia said: "The world is in chaos, where can I ride you!"


Chunk 14: 
original: 
骋惧而还，犬又言曰： 归何早也？
寻后牛又人立而行。
骋使善卜者卦之，谓曰： 天下将有兵乱，为祸非止一家。
其年，张昌反，先略江夏，骋为将帅，于是五州残乱，骋亦族灭。
京房 易传 曰： 牛能言，如其言占吉凶。
《易萌气枢》曰： 人君不好士，走马被文绣，犬狼食人食，则有六畜谈言。
时天子诸侯不以惠下为务，又其应也。
元帝建武元年七月，晋陵陈门才牛生犊，一体两头。
案京房《易传》言： 牛生子二首一身，天下将分之象也。
是时，愍帝蒙尘于平阳，寻为逆胡所杀。
元帝即位江东，天下分为二，是其应也。
太兴元年，武昌太守王谅牛生子，两头八足，两尾共一腹，三年后死。
又有牛一足三尾，皆生而死。
案司马彪说， 两头者，政在私门，上下无别之象也。
京房《易传》曰： 足多者，所任邪也；足少者，不胜任也。
其后王敦等乱政，此其祥也。
四年十二月，郊牛死。
案刘向说《春秋》效牛死曰： 宣公区昏乱，故天不飨其祀。
今元帝中兴之业，实王导之谋也。
刘隗探会上意，以得亲幸，导见疏外，此区不睿之祸。
成帝咸和二年五月，护军牛生犊，两头六足。
是冬，苏峻作乱。
七年，九德人袁荣家牛产犊，两头八足，二尾共身。
桓玄之国，在荆州诣刺史殷仲堪，行至鹤穴，逢一老公驱青牛，形色瑰异，桓玄即以所乘牛易取。
乘至零陵泾溪，骏驶非常，息驾饮牛，牛迳入江水不出。
玄遣人觇守，经日无所见。
于后玄败被诛。
黄眚黄祥蜀刘备章武二年，东伐。
二月，自秭归进屯夷道。
六月，秭归有黄气见，长十余里，广数十丈。
后逾旬，备为陆议所破，近黄祥也。
魏齐王正始中，中山王周南为襄邑长。
有鼠从穴出，语曰： 王周南，尔以某日死。
周南不应，鼠还穴。
translation: 
Zhang Cheng was frightened and returned. Quanmai said, "Why did you come back so early?"
Soon the cow was standing and walking like a human again.
Zhang Cheng asked someone who was good at divination to divine the matter and explained: There will be war in the world, and more than one family will be the cause of disaster.
At that time, Tui Dan rebelled and attacked first, and Zhang Bi was appointed as the general. As a result, the five states were destroyed and in chaos, and Zhang Cheng was also reduced from his clan.
Jingqing's "Yi Zhuan" said: The cow can talk and predict good and bad fortune according to its words.
"Yi Meng Qi Shu" says: If the monarch does not like wise men, good horses will wear ornaments and embroidery, and dogs and wolves will eat human food, then there will be six animals talking.
At that time, the emperor and the princes did not care about the common people, which was another sign.
In July of the first year of Emperor Jianwu's reign, Chen Mencai's cow in Jinling gave birth to a calf, one body and two heads.
An Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: A cow gives birth to a baby with two heads and one body, which is a sign that the world will be divided.
When he was sent, Emperor Min went into exile in Pingyang, and was soon killed by the rebellious Lang people.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne in Jiangdong, and the world split into two, which was a sign.
In the first year of Taixing, Wang Liang, the prefect of Wuchang, gave birth to a cow with two heads, eight legs and two tails on the same body. He died three years later.
There was also a cow with one foot and three tails. They all died after being born.
Sima Biao said: "Two heads" is a sign that the government is in private hands and there is no distinction between top and bottom.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: "To have many legs means to employ evil spirits; to have few legs means to be incompetent."
After that, Wang Dun and others disrupted the government, which was a sign of good fortune.
In December of the fourth year, the cow used for suburban sacrifice died.
Liu Xiang explained the death of an ox recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals: Duke Xuan was ignorant and confused, so God did not enjoy his sacrifice.
Now Emperor Yuan's great cause of resurgence is actually Yu Zun's strategy.
Liu Wei understood the emperor's will and gained favor, while Wang Feng was alienated. This was a disaster caused by ignorance.
In the fifth month of the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the ox guarding the army gave birth to a calf with two heads and six feet.
In the winter of this year, Su Jun made trouble.
In the seventh year, the cow of Yuan Rong's family from Jiude gave birth to a calf with two heads, eight legs, and two tails.
Huanxuan went to Fengguo and visited Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou. When he walked to Crane Cave, he met an old man driving a green ox with a strange appearance and color. Huanxuan offered him the ox in exchange.
Riding to the Lingling Jing River, Huan Xuan stopped his carriage and drank from the cow. The cow went straight into the river and never came out.
Huan Xuan sent someone to guard him, but he still didn't see him after a day.
Later Huan Xuan failed and was killed.
In the second year of Shu Liu Bei's reign, he went on an eastern expedition.
In February, he moved from Zigui to Taidao.
In June, yellow air appears in Hanging Mo, which is more than ten miles long and dozens of feet wide.
Later, after ten years, Liu Bei was defeated by Lu Yi, who was close to Huang Zhengxiang.
During the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, King Zhou Nan of Zhongshan was appointed as the magistrate of Xiangyi County.
A mouse came out of the cave and said: Wang Zhounan, you will die on a certain day.
Wang Zhounan did not respond, and the mouse returned to the cave.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
后至期，更冠帻皁衣出，语曰： 周南，汝日中当死。
又不应，鼠复入穴。
斯须更出，语如向。
日适欲中，鼠入须臾复出，出复入，转更数，语如前。
日适中，鼠曰： 周南，汝不应，我复何道！
言绝，颠蹶而死，即失衣冠。
取视，俱如常鼠。
案班固说，此黄祥也。
是时，曹爽专政，竞为比周，故鼠作变也。
惠帝元康四年十二月，大雾。
帝时昏眊，政非已出，故有区之妖。
元帝太兴四年八月，黄雾四寒，埃氛蔽天。
永昌元年十月，京师大雾，黑气贯天，日无光。
明帝太守元年正月癸巳，黄雾四塞。
二月，又黄雾四塞。
是时王敦擅权，谋逆愈甚。
穆帝永和七年三月，凉州大风拔木，黄雾下尘。
是时，张重华纳谮，出谢艾为酒泉太守，而所任非其人，至九年死，嗣子见杀，是其应也。
京房《易传》曰： 闻善不予兹谓不知，厥异黄，厥咎聋，厥灾不嗣。
黄者，有黄浊气四塞天下。
蔽贤绝道，灾至绝世也。
孝武太元八年二月癸未，黄雾四塞。
是时，道子专政，亲近佞人，朝纲方替。
安帝元兴元年十月丙申朔，黄雾昏浊不雨。
是时桓玄谋逆之应。
义熙五年十一月，大雾。
十年十一月，又大雾。
是时，帝室衰微，臣下权盛，兵及土地，略非君有，此其应也。
地震刘向曰： 地震，金木水火沴土者也。伯阳甫曰： 天地之气，不过其序；若过其序，人之乱也。
阳伏而不能出，阴迫而不能升，于是有地震。
吴孙权黄武四年，江东地连震。
是时，权受魏爵命为大将军、吴王，改元专制，不修臣迹。
translation: 
On the said date, the mouse put on a turban and black clothes and came out, saying: "My mother, you are going to die at noon."
There was no answer again, so the mouse entered the hole again.
Come out soon and say as before.
When the sun was approaching noon, the mouse went into the hole and came out quickly, came out and went in again, going back and forth many times, and the story was still the same as before.
When the sun reached noon, the mouse said: Danchen, if you don't answer, what else can I say?
After saying this, the mouse fell to the ground and died, immediately losing his clothes.
Looking at it, it looks exactly like an ordinary mouse.
Ban Gu said, this is Huang Zhengxiang.
At this time, Cao Shuang was dictatorial in government affairs and formed factions for personal gain, so the mice mutated.
In December of the fourth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was heavy fog.
Emperor Xian was ignorant at that time, and he could not control the political power, so there was a strange phenomenon of ignorance.
In August of the fourth year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, yellow fog enveloped all directions, and dust and smoke covered the sky.
In October of the first year of Yongchang, there was heavy fog in the capital, black air reached into the sky, and the sun lost its light.
In the first month of the first year of the Ming Dynasty, the yellow mist shrouded all directions.
In February, there was another yellow fog covering all directions.
At this time, Wang Dun was in power, and the conspiracy and rebellion became increasingly intense.
In March of the seventh year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, a strong wind uprooted the trees in Yuanye, and yellow mist dropped dust.
At this time, Zhang Chonghua listened to the slander and demoted Xie Aiwai to be the prefect of Jiuquan. However, the person he appointed was incompetent. He died in the ninth year and his successor son was killed. This was a sign.
Jingfang's "Yi Ming" says: Hearing good words but not obeying them is called unwise, his evil is yellow, his punishment is deafness, his disaster is having no heir.
Yellow means yellow and turbid air covering all directions.
Covering up talented people cuts off morality and justice, so the disaster is the severing of the lineage.
In the second month of Guiwei in the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, yellow mist enveloped all directions.
At this time, Sima Daozi was monopolizing power and was close to treacherous people, and the rules and regulations of the court were corrupted.
On the first day of October in the first year of Emperor An's Yuanxing reign, the yellow fog was dim and dirty, and it didn't rain.
This was a sign of Huan Xuan's conspiracy and rebellion at that time.
In November of the fifth year of Yixi, there was heavy fog.
In November of the following year, there was heavy fog again.
When he was sent, the royal family declined, the power of his subordinates was great, and most of the army and land were not owned by the emperor. This was a sign.
Plastic Roar said: Earthquakes are caused by metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming earth. Zhi Kenmi said: The Qi of heaven and earth cannot be chaotic; if the order goes wrong, people will be in chaos.
If Yang Qi is hidden and cannot come out, and Yin Qi is oppressed and cannot rise, there will be earthquakes.
In the fourth year of Wu, Sunquan and Huangwu, there were successive earthquakes in Jiangdong.
At this time, Sun Quan accepted the title of General of Wei and King of Wu. He changed his title to rule the roost and did not practice the behavior of a courtier.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
京房《易传》曰： 臣事虽正，专必震。
其震，于水则波，于木则摇，于屋则瓦落。
大经在辟而易臣兹谓阴动，厥震摇政宫。
大经摇政兹谓不阴，厥震摇山，出涌水。
嗣子无德专禄兹谓不顺，厥震动丘陵，涌水出。
刘向并云； 臣下强盛，将动而为害之应也。
魏明帝青龙二年十一月，京都地震，从东来，隐隐有声，摇屋瓦。
景初元年六月戊申，京都地震。
是秋，吴将硃然围江夏，荆州刺史胡质击退之。
又，公孙文懿叛，自立为燕王，改年，置百官。
明年，讨平之。
吴孙权嘉禾六年五月，江东地震。
赤乌二年正月，地再震。
是时，吕壹专事，步骘上疏曰： 伏闻校事吹毛求瑕，趣欲陷人，成其威福，无罪无辜，横受重刑，虽有大臣，不见信任，如此，天地焉得无变！
故地连震动，臣下专政之应也。
冀所以警悟人主，可不深思其意哉！
壹后卒败。
魏齐王正始二年十一月，南安郡地震。
三年七月甲申，南安郡地震。
十二月，魏郡地震。
六年二月丁卯，南安郡地震。
是时，曹爽专政，迁太后于永宁宫，太后与帝相泣而别。
连年地震，是其应也。
吴孙权赤乌十一年二月，江东地仍震。
是时，权听谗，寻黜硃据，废太子。
蜀刘禅炎兴元年，蜀地震。
是时宦人黄皓专权。
案司马彪说， 阉官无阳施，犹妇人也 。
皓见任之应，与汉和帝时同事也。
是冬，蜀亡。
武帝泰始五年四月辛酉，地震。
是年冬，新平氐羌叛。
明年，孙皓遣大众入涡口。
七年六月丙申，地震。
咸宁二年八月庚辰，河南、河东、平阳地震。
translation: 
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: Although the ministers behave uprightly, arbitrariness will definitely cause earthquakes.
This earthquake will cause waves to form on the water, shake the trees, and cause tiles to fall off the houses.
If the Tao is not straight and the ministers change, it is called Yin movement, and earthquakes will shake the palace.
The regular Tao shakes political affairs and is called unyin. Earthquakes shake mountains and water gushes out.
A son who succeeds to the throne has no virtue and only excels in his position, which is called unfavorable. Earthquakes shake the hills and water gushes out.
Liu Xiang also said: This is the fulfillment of the fact that my subordinates are powerful and will act to cause harm.
In November of the second year of the Qinglong reign of Emperor Wei Ming, there was an earthquake in Kyoto. It came from the east and made a low sound, shaking the tiles on the house.
In June of the first year of Jingchu, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In the autumn of that year, Wu general Zhu Ran led his troops to besiege Jiangxia, but Hu Zhi, the governor of Jingzhou, repulsed him.
Also, Gongsun Wenyi rebelled and proclaimed himself King of Yan. He changed his reign and appointed hundreds of officials.
The next year, he was put down.
In May of the sixth year of Jiahe, Sun Quan of the State of Wu, there was an earthquake in Jiangdong.
In the first month of the second year of Chiwu, there were two earthquakes.
At that time, Lu Yi was in power, and Bu Lu Shangshu said: I heard that he was picky about school affairs, indulged in selfish desires, framed others, and acted arrogantly, innocent people were accidentally severely punished, and even ministers were not trusted. How could there be no variation in heaven and earth like this!
Therefore, there were earthquakes one after another, which was the fulfillment of the minister's expertise in government affairs.
Heaven and Earth hope that it can be used to alert the emperor. How can we not think deeply about its purpose?
Lu Yi finally failed.
In November of the second year of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
In July of the third year of Jiashen, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
In December, there was an earthquake in Weijun.
On Ding Mao in February of the sixth year, there was an earthquake in Nan'an County.
At that time, Cao Shuang was specialized in government affairs and asked the Queen Mother to move into Yongning Palace. The Queen Mother and the Emperor parted in tears.
Earthquakes in successive years are the fulfillment of this.
In February of the eleventh year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, there were successive earthquakes in Jiangdong.
At that time, Sun Quan listened to the slander and soon deposed Zhu Ju and deposed the prince.
In the first year of Yanxing of Shu Liu Chan, there was an earthquake in Shu.
At that time, the eunuch Huang Hao had exclusive power.
According to Sima Biao, Chuang Guan does not have a penis, just like a woman.
The fulfillment of Huang Hao's trust was the same as what happened during the Han Dynasty.
That winter, the Kingdom of Shu perished.
In April of the fifth year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, there was an earthquake.
That winter, the Di and Qiang people in Xinping rebelled.
The next year, Sun Hao sent a large army into the mouth of the vortex.
In June of the seventh year, there was an earthquake.
In August of the second year of Xianning, there were earthquakes in Henan, Hedong, and Pingyang.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
四年六月丁未，阴平广武地震，甲子又震。
太康二年二月庚申，淮南、丹阳地震。
五年正月朔壬辰，京师地震。
六年七月己丑，地震。
七年七月，南安、犍为地震。
八月，京兆地震。
八年五月壬子，建安地震。
七月，阴平地震。
八月，丹阳地震。
九年正月，会稽、丹阳、吴兴地震。
四月辛酉，长沙、南海等郡国八地震。
七月至于八月，地又四震，其三有声如雷。
九月，临贺地震，十二月又震。
十年十二月己亥，丹杨地震。
太熙元年正月，地又震，武帝世，始于贾充，终于杨骏，阿党昧利，苟窃朝权。
至于末年，所任转弊，故频年地震，过其序也，终丧天下。
惠帝元康元年十二月辛酉，京都地震。
此夏，贾后使楚王玮杀汝南王亮及太保卫瓘，此阴道盛、阳道微故也。
四年二月，上谷、上庸、辽东地震。
五月，蜀郡山移；淮南寿春洪水出，山崩地陷，坏城府。
八月，上谷地震，水出，杀百余人。
十月，京都地震。
十一月，荥阳、襄城、汝阴、梁国、南阳地皆震。
十二月，京都又震。
是时，贾后乱朝，终至祸败之应也。
汉邓太后摄政时，郡国地震。
李固以为： 地，阴也，法当安静。
此同事也。京房《易传》曰： 小人剥庐，厥妖山崩，兹谓阴乘阳，弱胜强。
又曰： 阴背阳则地裂，父子分离，夷羌叛去。
五年五月丁丑，地震。
六月，金城地震。
六年正月丁丑，地震。
八年正月丙辰，地震。
太安元年十月，地震。
时齐王冏专政之应。
二年十二月丙辰，地震。
translation: 
In the sixth month of the fourth year, there were earthquakes in Yinping and Guangwu, and another earthquake in Jiazi.
In February of the second year of Taikang, there were earthquakes in Huainan and Danyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In the seventh month of the sixth year, there was an earthquake.
In July of the seventh year, there was an earthquake in Nan'an and Qianwei.
In August, there was an earthquake in Beijing.
In May of the eighth year of Renzi, there was an earthquake in Jian'an.
In July, there was an earthquake in Yinping.
In August, there was an earthquake in Danyang.
In the first month of the ninth year, there were earthquakes in Kuaiji, Danyang, and Wuxing.
In April Xinyou, there were eight earthquakes in Changsha, Nanhai and other counties.
Between July and August there were four more earthquakes, three of which sounded like thunder.
In September, there was an earthquake in Linhe, and another earthquake in December.
In December of the tenth year of Jihai, there was an earthquake in Danyang.
In the first month of the first year of Taixi, the earth shook again. During the reign of Emperor Wu, from Jia Chong to Chaoshuang, they formed cliques for personal gain and stole the power of the government.
In the last years, the appointment of officials became even more corrupt. As a result, there were earthquakes year after year, the Yin and Yang order went wrong, and the world was finally lost.
In the Xinyou month of the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In the summer of the year of Zao, Empress Jia ordered Sima Zhang, King of Chu, to kill Wang Liang of Runan and Taibao Guan. This was because the vagina was strong and the Yang Dao was weak.
In February of the fourth year, there were earthquakes in Shanggu, Shangyong and Liaodong.
In May, the mountains in Shu County moved; floods surged out in Shouchun, Huainan, landslides and landslides occurred, and the government buildings were damaged.
In August, there was an earthquake in Shanggu, and water surged out, drowning more than a hundred people.
In October, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
In November, there were earthquakes in Rongyang, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Liangguo, and Nanyang.
In December, another earthquake hit Kyoto.
At that time, disturbing the imperial court after the purchase was the fulfillment that finally led to disaster.
During the regency of Empress Dowager Deng in the Han Dynasty, there was an earthquake in the county.
Li Gu believes: The earth belongs to Yin, so it should be peaceful according to the law.
Now it has exceeded the responsibilities of yin and specializes in yang political affairs, so there are earthquakes. It's the same kind of thing. Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: A villain takes away someone's shelter, and a monster is like a landslide. This is called Yin taking advantage of Yang, and the weak defeats the strong.
He also said: When yin deviates from yang, the earth will split, father and son will be separated, and the Yi and Qiang will rebel.
In May of the fifth year of Ding Chou, there was an earthquake.
In June, there was an earthquake in Jincheng.
In the first month of the sixth year of Ding Chou, there was an earthquake.
On Bingchen of the first month of the eighth year, there was an earthquake.
In October of the first year of Tai'an, there was an earthquake.
This was the fulfillment of the fact that Sima Tong, the king of Qi at that time, was good at government affairs.
In December of the second year, there was an earthquake.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
是时，长沙王乂专政之应也。
孝杯帝永嘉三年十月，荆、湘二州地震。
时司马越专政。
四年四月，兗州地震。
五月，石勒寇汲郡，执太守胡宠，遂南济河，是其应也。
愍帝建兴二年四月甲辰，地震。
三年六月丁卯，长安又地震。
是时主幼，权倾于下，四方云扰，兵乱不息之应也。
元帝太兴元年四月，西平地震，涌水出。
十二月，庐陵、豫章、武昌、西陵地震，涌水出，山崩。
干宝以为王敦陵上之应也。
二年五月己丑，祁山地震，山崩，杀人。
是时，相国南阳王保在祁山，称晋王不终之象也。
三年五月庚寅，丹阳、吴郡、晋陵又地震。
成帝咸和二年二月，江陵地震。
三月，益州地震。
四月己未，豫章地震。
是年，苏峻作乱。
九年三月丁酉，会稽地震。
穆帝永和元年六月癸亥，地震。
是时，嗣主幼冲，母后称制，政在臣下，所以连年地震。
二年十月，地震。
三年正月丙辰，地震。
九月，地又震。
四年十月己未，地震。
五年正月庚寅，地震。
是时，石季龙僭即皇帝位，亦过其序也。
九年八月丁酉，京都地震，有声如雷。
十年正月丁卯，地震，声如雷，鸡雉皆鸣句。
十一年四月乙酉，地震。
五月丁未，地震。
升平二年十一月辛酉，地震。
五年八月，凉州地震。
哀帝隆和元年四月甲戌，地震。
是时，政在将相，人主南面而已。
兴宁元年四月甲戌，扬州地震，湖渎溢。
二年二月庚寅，江陵地震。
是时，桓温专政。
海西公太和元年二月，凉州地震，水涌。
是海西将废之应也。
简文帝咸安二年十月辛未，安成地震。
translation: 
At that time, Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, was specialized in government affairs, which was fulfilled.
In October of the third year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, there was an earthquake in Jingzhou and Xiangzhou.
At that time, Sima Yue was specialized in government affairs.
In April of the fourth year, there was an earthquake in Yanzhou.
In the fifth month, Shi Le invaded Ji County and captured the prefect Hu Chong, so he crossed the Yellow River southward, which was fulfilled.
In April of the second year of Emperor Min's reign, there was an earthquake.
On Ding Mao in June of the third year, there was another earthquake in Chang'an.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that the monarch was young at that time, his power was controlled by his subordinates, and there was turmoil in all directions and endless wars.
In April of the first year of Taixing, Emperor Yuan, there was an earthquake in Xiping, and water gushed out.
In December, earthquakes occurred in Luling, Yuzhang, Wuchang, and Xiling, causing water to gush out and landslides.
The royal family believed that this was the fulfillment of Lord Wang Dunlingling.
In May of the second year, Ji Chou suffered an earthquake and landslide in Qishan Mountain, killing people.
This is a sign that Sima Bao, the king of Nanyang in the prime minister state at that time, proclaimed himself the king of Jin in Qishan and did not end well.
In the fifth month of the third year of Gengyin, there was another earthquake in Danyang, Wujun and Jinling.
In February of the second year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
In March, there was an earthquake in Yizhou.
At the end of April, there was an earthquake in Yuzhang.
At that time, Su Jun caused chaos.
In March of the ninth year of Dingyou, there was an earthquake in Kuaiji.
There was an earthquake in Guihai in June of the first year of Yonghe, Emperor Mu.
At that time, the stepfather was young and his mother came to the court to listen to the government. The political power was controlled by his subordinates, so there were earthquakes year after year.
In October of the second year, there was an earthquake.
On Bingchen of the first month of the third year, there was an earthquake.
In September, there was another earthquake.
At the end of October of the fourth year, there was an earthquake.
In the first month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake.
At that time, Shi Jilong usurped the throne of emperor, which also caused a breakdown in order.
On August 9th of the ninth year, there was an earthquake in Kyoto, with a sound like thunder.
On Ding Mao, the first month of the tenth year, there was an earthquake. The sound was like thunder, and the pheasants howled.
In April Yiyou of the eleventh year, there was an earthquake.
At the end of May, there was an earthquake.
In November of the second year of Shengping, there was an earthquake.
In August of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou.
In April of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, there was an earthquake in Jiaxu.
At that time, the state affairs were in the hands of the generals, and the emperor was in name only.
In April of the first year of Xingning, there was an earthquake in Yangzhou and the lakes and rivers overflowed.
In February of the second year of Gengyin, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
At that time, Huan Wen was specialized in state affairs.
In February of the first year of Haixi Gongtaihe's reign, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou and water gushed out.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that Haixi will be deposed.
In the tenth month of the second year of Emperor Jianwen's reign in Xian'an, there was an earthquake in Ancheng.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
是年帝崩。
孝武帝宁康元年十月辛未，地震。
二年二月丁巳，地震。
七月甲午，凉州地又震，山崩。
是时，嗣主幼冲，权在将相，阴盛之应也。
太元二年闰三月壬午，地震。
五月丁丑，地震。
十一年六月己卯，地震。
是后缘河诸将连岁兵役，人劳之应也。
十五年二月己酉朔夜，地震。
八月，京都地震。
十二月己未，地震。
十七年六月癸卯，地震。
十二月己未，地又震。
是时，群小弄权，天下侧目。
十八年正月癸亥朔，地震。
二月乙未夜，地震。
安帝隆安四年四月乙未，地震。
九月癸丑，地震。
是时，幼主冲昧，政在臣下。
义熙四年正月壬子夜，地震有声。
十月癸亥，地震。
五年正月戊戌夜，寻阳地震，有声如雷。
明年，卢循下。
八年，自正月至四月，南康、庐陵地四震。
明年，王旅西讨荆益。
十年三月戊寅，地震。
山崩地陷裂吴孙权赤乌十三年八月，丹阳、句容及故鄣、宁国诸山崩，鸿水溢。案刘向说， 山，阳，君也。
水，阴，百姓也。
天戒若曰，君道崩坏，百姓将失其所与 ！
春秋梁山崩，汉齐、楚众山发水，同事也。
夫三代命祀，祭不越望，吉凶祸福，不是过也。
吴虽称帝，其实列国，灾发丹阳，其天意矣。
刘歆以为： 国主山川，山崩川竭，亡之征也。
后二年而权薨，又二十六年而吴亡。
魏元帝咸熙二年二月，太行山崩，此魏亡之征也。
其冬，晋有天下。
武帝泰始三年三月戊午，大石山崩。
四年七月，泰山崩坠三里。
translation: 
This year the emperor died.
In the tenth month of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, there was an earthquake.
In February of the second year of Dingsi, there was an earthquake.
In July, there was another earthquake and landslide in Liangzhou.
This is the fulfillment of the fact that the successor was young at that time, the power was in the hands of generals, and Yin was strong.
In the second year of Taiyuan, there was an earthquake at Renwu in the leap month of March.
Ding Chou in May, earthquake.
In June of the eleventh year, there was an earthquake.
This was the fulfillment of the fact that the generals in the Yellow River Basin fought for years and the people were exhausted.
On the first night of March in the fifteenth year, there was an earthquake.
In August, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
At the end of December, there was an earthquake.
In June of the 17th year of Guimao, there was an earthquake.
At the end of December, there was another earthquake.
At that time, when villains wielded power, people all over the world looked at him with suspicion.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the eighteenth year, Guihai, there was an earthquake.
It's night in February. earthquake.
At the end of April in the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was an earthquake.
September Guichou, earthquake.
At that time, the emperor was young and ignorant, and the affairs of the country were controlled by his subordinates.
In the first month of the fourth year of Yixi, at night of Renzi, there was an earthquake and there was a sound.
In October Guihai, there was an earthquake.
On the night of Wuxu in the first month of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in Xunyang, and there was a sound like thunder.
The next year, Lu Xun failed.
In eight years, from the first month to April, there were four earthquakes in Nankang and Luling.
The next year, the imperial army attacked Jingzhou and Yizhou in the west.
In March of the 10th year of Wuyin, there was an earthquake.
In August of the 13th year of Wu Sunquan's reign in Chiwu, landslides occurred in Danyang, Jurong, Guzhang, and Ning states, and floods overflowed. According to Liu Xiang, mountain belongs to Yang and governs the emperor.
Water belongs to Yin and governs the people.
God has shown a warning, the emperor's way has collapsed, and the people will lose their favor!
In the Spring and Autumn Period, the Liangshan Mountains collapsed and the mountains in the Han, Qi and Chu lands flooded. It was the same thing.
During the Three Dynasties, the king's sacrifices did not exceed the number of sacrifices, and the good and bad fortunes did not exceed these.
Although Lord Wu is proclaimed emperor, he is actually one of the nations. The disaster in Danyang is God's will.
Liu Xin believed: The country is dominated by mountains and rivers, and landslides and rivers dry up. This is a sign of national subjugation.
Two years later, Sun Quan died, and twenty-six years later, the state of Wu fell.
In February of the second year of Xianxi, Emperor Yuan of Wei, a landslide occurred in Taihang Mountain. This was a sign of the demise of Wei.
This winter, the Jin Dynasty dominated the world.
In the third month of the third month of the third year of Emperor Wu's reign, a landslide occurred in Dashi Mountain.
In July of the fourth year, Mount Tai collapsed three miles away.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
京房《易传》曰： 自上下者为崩，厥应泰山之石颠而下，圣王受命人君虏。
及帝晏驾，而禄去王室，惠皇懦弱，怀愍二帝俱辱虏庭，沦胥于北，元帝中兴于南，此其应也。
太康五年五月丙午，宣帝庙地陷。
六年十月，南安新兴山崩，涌水出。
七年二月，硃提之大泸山崩，震坏郡舍，阴平之仇池崖陨。
八年七月，大雨，殿前地陷，方五尺，深数丈，中有破船。
惠帝元康四年，蜀郡山崩，杀人。
五月壬子，寿春山崩，洪水出，城坏，地陷方三十丈，杀人。
六月，寿春大雷，山崩地坼，人家陷死，上庸亦如之。
八月，居庸地裂，广三十六丈，长八十四丈，水出，大饥。
上庸四处山崩，地坠广三十丈，长百三十丈，水出杀人。
皆贾后乱朝之应也。
太安元年四月，西墉崩。
怀帝永嘉元年三月，洛阳东北步广里地陷。
二年八月乙亥，鄄城城无故自坏七十余丈，司马越恶之，迁于濮阳，此见沴之异也。
越卒以陵上受祸。
三年七月戊辰，当阳地裂三所，广三丈，长三百余步。
京房《易传》曰： 地坼裂者，臣下分离，不肯相从也。
其后司马越苟晞交恶，四方牧伯莫不离散，王室遂亡。
三年十月，宜都夷道山崩。
四年四月，湘东需阝黑石山崩。
元帝太兴元年二月，庐陵、豫章、武昌，西阳地震山崩。
二年五月，祁山地震，山崩，杀人。
三年，南平郡山崩，出雄黄数千斤。
时王敦陵傲，帝优容之，示含养祸萌也。
四年八月，常山崩，水出，滹沲盈溢，大木倾拔。
成帝咸和四年十月，柴桑庐山西北崖崩。
十二月，刘胤为郭默所杀。
穆帝永和七年九月，峻平、崇阳二陵崩。
十二年十一月，遣散骑常侍车灌修峻平陵，开埏道，崩压，杀数十人。
升平五年二月，南掖门马足陷地，得钟一，有文四字。
哀帝隆和元年四月丁丑，浩亹山崩，张天锡亡征也。
安帝义熙八年三月壬寅，山阴地陷，方四丈，有声如雷。
十年五月戊寅，西明门地穿，涌水出，毁门扇及限，此水沴土也。
十一年五月，霍山崩，出铜钟六枚。
十三年七月，汉中成固县水涯有声若雷，既而岸崩，出铜钟十有二枚。
惠帝元康九年六月夜，暴雷雨，贾谧斋屋柱陷入地，压谧床帐，此木沴土，土失其性，不能载也。
明年，谧诛焉。
光熙元年五月，范阳国地燃，可以爨，此火沴土也。
translation: 
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: What goes from top to bottom is called collapse, which is true for the stone of Mount Tai falling from a high place, and the sage king was ordered to be captured.
After the death of Emperor Wu, Fulu left the royal family. Emperor Hui was cowardly. Emperor Huai and Emperor Min were all bullied by the barbarians and imprisoned in the north. Emperor Yuan was resurrected in the south. This was fulfilled.
On Bingwu in the fifth month of the fifth year of Taikang, the ground of Emperor Xuan Temple sank.
In October of the sixth year, a landslide occurred in Xingxing, Nan'an, and water gushed out.
In February of the seventh year, the Dalu Mountain in Zhu Ti collapsed, damaging the county building, and the cliff of Qiu Chi in Yin Ping collapsed.
In July of the eighth year, there was heavy rain, and the ground in front of the palace collapsed. It was five feet square and several feet deep, and there was a broken boat wrapped around it.
In the fourth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, a landslide occurred in Shu County, causing some casualties.
In the fifth month of Renzi, a landslide occurred in Shouchun, floods came out, the city wall was washed away, and the ground collapsed thirty feet square, causing some casualties.
In June, there was a loud thunder in Shouchun, the mountains collapsed and the ground cracked. Some people fell into the ground and died, and the same happened in Shangyong.
In August, the ground in Juyong cracked, with a width of 36 feet and a length of 84 feet. Water gushed out, and a great famine occurred.
Landslides occurred in four places in Shangyong. The area where the ground fell was 30 feet wide and 130 feet long. Water gushes out and drowns people.
These are all manifestations of disrupting government affairs after buying.
In April of the first year of Tai'an, the Xiyong Mountain collapsed.
In March of the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, the ground in Buguangli, northeast of Luoyang, sank.
In August Yihai of the second year of the year, more than 70 feet of the Juancheng wall collapsed for no reason. Sima Yue hated this and moved to Puyang. This was a conflicting disaster.
Sima Yue eventually suffered disaster for offending the emperor.
On the Wuchen day of the seventh month of the third year, the ground cracked in three places in Dangyang, which was three feet wide and more than three hundred steps long.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: The ground is cracked, which means that the ministers are separated and unwilling to follow.
Later, Sima Yue and Gou Xi had conflicts, and officials from all directions were separated, and the royal family perished.
In October of the third year, a landslide occurred in Yidao, Yidu.
In April of the fourth year, a landslide occurred in Lingheishi Mountain in eastern Hunan.
In February of the first year of Taixing, Emperor Yuan, there were earthquakes and landslides in Luling, Yuzhang, Wuchang, and Xiyang.
In May of the second year, there was an earthquake and landslide in Qishan Mountain, killing people.
Three years ago, a landslide occurred in Nanping County, releasing thousands of kilograms of realgar.
At that time, Wang Dun was arrogant and domineering, and the emperor's tolerance for him meant that he would bring disaster.
In August of the fourth year, a landslide occurred in Changshan, water gushed out, the Hucan River overflowed, and the big trees collapsed.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the northwest cliff of Chaisanglu Mountain collapsed.
In December, Liu Yin was killed by Guo Mo.
In September of the seventh year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, the two imperial tombs, Junping and Chongyang, collapsed.
In November of the twelfth year, some cavalrymen were sent to repair the Junping Mausoleum, and the passage to the tomb collapsed, killing dozens of people.
In February of the fifth year of Shengping, Nanye Gate fell into the ground and found a bell with four characters on it.
In April of the first year of Emperor Longhe's reign, Ding Chou and the Haomi Mountain collapsed, which was a sign of Zhang Tianxi's demise.
In the third month of the eighth year of Emperor An's Yixi reign, the ground in Shanyin collapsed, measuring four feet square, and the sound was as loud as thunder.
In the fifth month of the tenth year of the lunar calendar, the ground of Ximing Gate cracked and water gushed out, destroying the bow fan and threshold. This was water overcoming earth.
In May of the eleventh year, a landslide occurred in Huoshan, and six bronze bells appeared.
In July of the thirteenth year, a sound like thunder appeared on the water bank of Chenggu County, Hanzhong. Soon the water bank collapsed and twelve bronze bells appeared.
One night in June of the ninth year of Emperor Hui's reign, there was a thunderstorm. The pillars of Jia Mi's house sank into the ground, pressing down on Jia Mi's bed tent. This was wood overpowering earth, and earth lost its nature and could not bear the weight.
The next year, Jia Mi was killed.
In the fifth month of the first year of Guangxi's reign, the ground in Fanyang Kingdom was burning, and cooked rice could be cooked. This was fire overcoming earth.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
是时，礼乐征伐自诸候出。
《传》曰： 皇之不极，是谓不建，厥咎眊，厥罚恆阴，厥极弱。
时则有射妖，时则有龙蛇之孽，时则有马祸，时则有下人伐上之痾，时则有日月乱行，星辰逆行。
皇之不极，是谓不建。
皇，君；极，中；建，立也。
人君貌言视听思心五事皆失，不得其中，不能立万事，失在眊悖，故其咎眊也。
王者自下承天理物。
云起于山，而弥于天；天气乱，故其罚恆阴，一曰： 上失中，则下强盛而蔽君明也。
《易》曰： 亢龙有悔，贵而亡位，高而亡民，贤人在下位而亡辅。
如此，则君有南面之尊，而亡一人之助，故其极弱也。
盛阳动进轻疾。
礼，春而大射，以顺阳气。
上微弱则下奋惊动，故有射妖。
《易》曰： 云从龙。
又曰： 龙蛇之蛰，以存身也。
阴气动，故有龙蛇之孽。
于《易》，《乾》为君，为马。
任用而强力，君气毁，故有马祸。
一曰，马多死及为怪，亦是也。
君乱且弱，人之所叛，天之所去，不有明王之诛，则有篡杀之祸，故有下人伐上之痾。
凡君道伤者，病天气。
不言五行沴天，而曰 日月乱行，星辰逆行 者，为若下不敢沴天，犹《春秋》曰 王师败绩于贸戎 ，不言败之者，以自败为文，尊尊之意也。
刘歆《皇极传》曰有下体生于上之痾。
说以为下人伐上，天诛已成，不得复为痾云。
恆阴吴孙亮太平三年，自八月沈阴不雨，四十余日。
是时，将诛孙綝，谋泄。
translation: 
At that time, the princes made the decision on ritual and music expeditions.
"The Biography" says: If the monarch's words and deeds are inappropriate, he will be said to be unable to achieve success, his crime will be ignorance, his punishment will be a long period of cloudy weather, and in the extreme, his country will be weak.
Sometimes there are shooting monsters, sometimes there are monsters like dragons and snakes, sometimes there are horse troubles, sometimes there are bad things like inferior people attacking superior people, sometimes the sun and the moon move out of order, and the stars go retrograde.
If the ruler's words and deeds are inappropriate, this is called being unable to achieve success.
The emperor is a monarch, extremely appropriate and established.
The monarch's appearance, speech, eyes, hearing, and thoughts, and the five behaviors are all defective. They are not appropriate and cannot achieve success. The mistakes are due to confusion and confusion, so the crime is due to confusion.
The king inherits the destiny and governs all things.
Clouds rise from the mountains and fill the sky; the air in the sky is chaotic, so the punishment is long cloudy days. Another way of saying it is that if the Lord's words and deeds are inappropriate, then the subordinates will become powerful and obscure the monarch's wisdom.
The Book of Changes says: A man who has become a dragon has regrets; he who is noble loses his title; he who is noble loses his people; a wise man loses his assistant when he is in a low position.
In this way, the king is the emperor, but there is no one to help him, so he is extremely weak.
Shengyang moves quickly.
According to the etiquette, in spring the emperor needs to perform sacrifices and perform the shooting ceremony to adapt to the yang energy.
If the upper level is weak, the lower level will be alarmed, so there is a shooting demon.
"Yi" says: The factory cloud follows the dragon.
He also said: Dragons and snakes hibernate in order to preserve themselves.
Yin Qi is moving, so there are evil spirits like dragons and snakes.
In "Yi", "Qian" means king and horse.
The manpower appointed is strong, and the monarch's spirit is damaged, so there will be trouble with the horse.
Another way of saying it is that horses die more and become monsters, which is also correct.
If the monarch is confused and weak, people will betray him, and God will not want him. If there is no sage monarch to be killed, there will be the danger of usurping the throne and killing himself, so there will be the disadvantage of attacking from below.
Anyone whose way of being a ruler is damaged will have abnormal Qi from Heaven.
The reason why we don't say that the five elements conquer the sky, but say that the sun and the moon move in disorder, and the stars move retrograde, is because the underworld dare not conquer the sky. Just like the Spring and Autumn Annals said that Zhou's army defeated Maurong. Instead of saying that Maorong defeated Zhou, it said that he defeated the battle. This is a way of respecting the noble.
Liu Xin's "Huang Ji Zhuan" said that there is a disadvantage that the lower body is born in the upper body.
He sent someone to explain that by attacking from below, God's punishment has become a reality and it can no longer be a disaster.
During the three years of peace in Sun Liang in the state of Wu, it started to be gloomy and rainless from August for more than forty days.
At that time, he was preparing to kill Sun Sui, but the plan was leaked.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
九月戊午，綝以兵围宫，废亮为会稽王，此恆阴之罚也。
吴孙皓宝鼎元年十二月，太史奏久阴不雨，将有阴谋。
孙皓惊惧。
时陆凯等谋因其谒庙废之。
及出，留平领兵前驱，凯先语平，平不许，是以不果。
皓既肆虐，群下多怀异图，终至降亡
射妖蜀车骑将军邓芝征涪陵，见玄猨缘山，手射中之。
猨拔其箭，卷木叶塞其创。芝曰： 嘻！
吾违物之性，其将死矣！
俄而卒，此射妖也。
一曰，猨母抱子，芝射中之，子为拔箭，取木叶塞创。
芝叹息，投弩水中，自知当死。
恭帝为琅邪王，好奇戏，尝闲一马于门内，令人射之，欲观几箭死，左右有谏者曰： 马，国姓也。
今射之，不祥。
于是乃止，而马已被十许箭矣。
此盖射妖也。
俄而禅位于宋焉。
龙蛇之孽魏明帝青龙元年正月甲申，青龙见郏之摩陂井中。
凡瑞兴非时，则为妖孽，况困于井，非嘉祥矣。
魏以改年，非也。
干宝曰： 自明帝，终魏世，青龙、黄龙见者，皆其主兴废之应也。
魏土运，青木色，而不胜于金。
黄得位，青失位之象也。
青能多见者，君德国运内相克伐也。
故高贵乡公卒败于兵。
案刘向说，龙贵象而困井中，诸侯将有幽执之祸也。
魏世，龙莫不在井，此居上者逼制之应。
高贵乡公著《潜龙诗》，即此旨也。
高贵乡公正元元年十月戊戌，黄龙见于鄴井中。
甘露元年正月辛丑，青龙见轵县井中。
六月乙丑，青龙见元城县界井中。
二年二月，青龙见温县井中。
三年，黄龙、青龙俱见顿丘、冠军、阳夏县界井中。
四年正月，黄龙二见宁陵县界井中。
元帝景元元年十二月甲申，黄龙见华阴县井中。
translation: 
On Wuwu in the ninth month, Sun Sui led troops to besiege the palace and deposed Sun Liang as King of Kuaiji. This was punishment for a long period of cloudy weather.
In the twelfth month of Wu Sun Hao Baoding, Taishi reported that if it is cloudy and does not rain for a long time, there will be a conspiracy.
Sun Hao was surprised and scared.
At that time, Zuo Kai and others planned to depose Xun Bi while he was visiting the ancestral temple.
When Sun Hao came out, Liu Ping led the troops as the vanguard. Lu Kai told Lu Kai in advance, but Lu Kai disagreed, so it failed.
Sun Hao was tyrannical, and most of his ministers had separate homes. Finally surrendered and perished.
When Shu's chariot general Langzhi was on an expedition against the mainland, he saw a black ape climbing a mountain and shot it with his bow.
The ape pulled out the arrowhead and rolled up some leaves to cover the wound. Deng Zhi said: Alas!
I have violated the nature of all things and will die!
He died in a short time, and he was the shooting demon.
According to another theory, the mother ape was holding the young ape, and Deng Zhi shot the mother ape. The young ape pulled out the arrow for the big ape and used leaves to block the wound.
Deng Zhi sighed and threw his bow into the water, knowing that he was going to die.
When Emperor Gong was King Langxie, he liked to play some strange games. He once locked a horse in a door and asked him to shoot it, hoping to see how many arrows it would take to kill the horse. The person next to me remonstrated: "Ma is the surname of the country."
It is unlucky to shoot it now.
It stopped, but the horse had been shot with more than ten arrows.
Creation means shooting demons.
Soon, Emperor Gong gave the Zen throne to Song Dynasty.
In the first month of Jiashen in the first year of Qinglong, Emperor Wei Ming, Qinglong appeared in the well in Mobei, Jia Di.
Any auspicious sign that does not appear at the right time becomes a monster, not to mention being trapped in a well is not a good omen.
Therefore, Li changed the year name and did something wrong.
Gan Shi said: From the beginning of Danxi to the end of the tomb, the appearance of green dragon and yellow dragon is the fulfillment of the rise and fall of the emperor.
Wei is the luck of earth, and green is the color of wood, but it cannot beat gold.
It is a symbol of yellow gaining the throne and green losing the throne.
The green dragon appears many times, indicating that the virtue of the king and the fate of the country are at odds with each other.
Therefore, Zhi Zhen Sha Gong was finally defeated.
According to Su Pao, if the dragon is a noble elephant but is trapped in a well, it is a sign that the princes will be imprisoned.
In the Wei Dynasty, dragons appeared in wells, which was the fulfillment of the persecution of those in superior positions.
Gao Guixiang's "Poetry of Qianlong" has the meaning of respite.
In October of the Wuxu Day in the fifth year of Zhenggong in Gaogui Township, Huanglong appeared in the well in Ye.
In Xinchou, the first month of the first year of Ganlu, a green dragon appeared in the well in Ruan County.
In the sixth month of Yichou, a green dragon appears in a well in Yuancheng County.
In February of the second year, Qinglong appeared in a well in Wen County.
In the past three years, Huanglong and Qinglong have appeared in wells in Dunqiu, Champion, and Yangxia counties.
In the first month of the fourth year, Huanglong appeared twice in the well in Ningling County.
In the twelfth month of Jiashen in the first year of Emperor Jingyuan of the Yuan Dynasty, Huanglong appeared in the well of Hua Zhuixun.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
三年二月，龙见轵县井中。
吴孙皓天册中，龙乳于长沙人家，啖鸡雏。
京房《易妖》曰： 龙乳人家，王者为庶人。
其后皓降晋。
武帝咸宁二年六月丙午，白龙二见于九原井中。
太康五年正月癸卯，二龙见武库井中。
帝观之，有喜色。
百僚将贺，刘毅独表曰： 昔龙漦夏庭，祸发周室。
龙见郑门，子产不贺。
帝答曰： 朕德政未修，未有以应受嘉祥。
遂不贺也。
孙盛曰： 龙，水物也，何与于人！
子产言之当矣。但非其所处，实为妖灾。
夫龙以飞翔显见为瑞，今则潜伏幽处，非休祥也。
汉惠帝二年，两龙见兰陵井中，本志以为其后赵王幽死之象。
武库者，帝王威御之器所宝藏也，屋宇邃密，非龙所处。
是后七年，籓王相害，二十八年，果有二胡僭窃神器，二逆皆字曰龙，此之表异，为有证矣。
愍帝建兴二年十一月，枹罕羌妓产一龙子，色似锦，文常就母乳，遥见神光，少得就视。
此亦皇之不建，于是帝竟沦没。
吕纂末，龙出东厢井中，到其殿前蟠卧，比旦失之。
俄又有黑龙升其宫门。
纂咸以为美瑞。
或曰： 龙者阴类，出入有时，今而屡见，必有下人谋上之变。
后纂果为吕超所杀。
武帝咸宁中，司徒府有二大蛇，长十许丈，居听事平上而人不知，但数年怪府中数失小兒及猪犬之属。
后有一蛇夜出，被刃伤不能去，乃觉之，发徒攻击，移时乃死。
夫司徒，五教之府；此皇极不建，故蛇孽见之。
汉灵帝时，蛇见御座，杨赐云为帝溺于色之应也。
魏代宫人猥多，晋又过之，燕游是湎，此其孽也。
《诗》云 惟虺惟蛇，女子之祥 也。
惠帝元康五年三月癸巳，临淄有大蛇，长十余丈，负二小蛇入城北门，迳从市入汉城阳景王祠中，不见。
translation: 
In February of the third year, the dragon appeared in the well in Ruan County.
During the Yuce period of Wu Sun Haotian, Long gave birth to a son in a common people's home in Kensi and ate the common people's babies.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: Dragons give birth to children in people's homes, and kings will become common people.
Later Sun Hao surrendered to Jin.
On Bingwu in June of the second year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, the white dragon appeared twice in the well in Jiuyuan.
In the first month of the fifth year of Taikang, two dragons appeared in the well in the arsenal.
When the emperor saw it, he was delighted.
When all the officials were about to congratulate, the Holy Tunnel came up and said: Once upon a time, a dragon spit in the summer court, and disasters came from the Dan room.
The dragon appeared in Zhengmen, but the king did not celebrate.
The emperor replied: My virtuous government has not yet been established, and I have nothing to do to fulfill the good omen.
So there was no celebration.
Sun Chu said: Dragon is a water creature, what does it have to do with humans!
Zichan is right. But appearing in inappropriate places is actually a demonic disaster.
It is auspicious that the dragon appears in flight, but now it is lurking in the deep place, which is not a good omen.
In the second year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, two dragons appeared in the well in Lanling. I thought it was a symbol of King Tang's imprisonment and death.
The arsenal is where the emperor hides the tools for ruling the country. The building is deep and tight, not suitable for dragons to stay.
In the next seven years, the vassal kings harmed each other. In the twenty-eighth year, two barbarians usurped the title of emperor and sent two rebels named Long. There is evidence for the disasters recorded in the package.
In November of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, a Paohan Qiang prostitute gave birth to a little dragon, which looked like a gorgeous pattern. It often went to its mother to nurse. She could see the divine light from a distance, but could rarely see it up close.
This also means that the emperor failed to make any achievements and eventually fell.
In the last years of Lu Zuan's reign, the dragon appeared in the well in the east chamber, lay down in front of the main hall, and disappeared the next morning.
Soon another black dragon flew to the palace gate.
Lu Zuan thought it was a good omen.
Some people say: Dragons are yin types and come and go at certain times. If they appear many times now, there must be subordinates plotting against those above.
Later, Lu Zuan was indeed killed by Lu Chao.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of Xianning, there were two large snakes in Situ's Mansion, more than ten feet long, on the rafters of the hall. No one knew about it, but for many years it was strange that children, pigs and dogs often disappeared in the Mansion.
Later, a snake came out at night and was injured and could not leave. Only then did it find out and sent people to kill it. It took some time before it died.
Situ is the home of the Five Religions; this is because the ruler's words and deeds are inappropriate, so snake evil appears.
During the reign of Emperor Mo Ling, a snake appeared on the throne. Yang Ci said that this was the fulfillment of the emperor's addiction to women.
There are many people in the Wei palace, and Jin surpasses Wei. They indulge in banquets and entertainment. This is the fulfillment of these things.
"Poetry" says: Snakes and snakes are bad omens for women.
In the third month of Guisi in the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, there was a big snake in Linzi, more than ten feet long. It entered the north gate of the city carrying two small snakes on its back, went directly from the market to the Yangjing Prince Temple in Seoul, and disappeared.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
天戒若曰，昔汉景王有定倾之功，而不厉节忠慎，以至失职夺功之辱。
今齐王冏不寤，虽建兴复之功，而骄陵取祸，此其征也。
明帝太宁初，武昌有大蛇，常居故神祠空树中，每出头从人受食。
京房《易妖》曰： 蛇见于邑，不出三年有大兵，国有大忧。
寻有王敦之逆。
马祸武帝太熙元年，辽东有马生角，在两耳下，长三寸。
案刘向说曰， 此兵象也 。
及帝晏驾之后，王室毒于兵祸，是其应也。
京房《易传》曰： 臣易上，政不顺，厥妖马生角，兹谓贤士不足。
又曰： 天子亲伐，马生角。
《吕氏春秋》曰： 人君失道，马有生角。
及惠帝践阼，昏愚失道，又亲征伐成都，是其应也。
惠帝元康八年十二月，皇太子将释奠，太傅赵王伦骖乘，至南城门，马止，力士推之不能动。
伦入轺车，乃进。
此马祸也。
天戒若曰，伦不知义方，终为乱逆，非傅导行礼之人也。
九年十一月戊寅，忽有牡骝马惊奔至廷尉讯堂，悲鸣而死。
天戒若曰，愍怀冤死之象也。
见廷尉讯堂，其天意乎！
怀帝永嘉六年二月，神马鸣南城门。
愍帝建兴二年九月，蒲子县马生人。
京房《易传》曰： 上亡天子，诸侯相伐，厥妖马生人。
是时，帝室衰微，不绝如线，胡狄交侵，兵戈日逼，寻而帝亦沦陷，故此妖见也。
元帝太兴二年，丹阳郡吏濮阳演马生驹，两头，自项前别，生而死。
司马彪说曰： 此政在私门，二头之象也。
其后王敦陵上。
成帝咸康八年五月甲戌，有马色赤如血，自宣阳门直走入于殿前，盘旋走出，寻逐，莫知所在。
己卯，帝不豫。
translation: 
Tian Jie said this: In the past, King Mojing had great achievements in stabilizing the country, but he was not loyal and cautious, so that he had the shame of losing his official position and being deprived of his merits.
Now Sima Tong, the king of Qi, is not aware that although he has made great achievements in reviving the country, he is domineering and invites disasters, which is a sign.
In the early years of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, there was a big snake in Wuchang. It often stayed in the empty tree of the old temple and often stretched out its head to accept people's food.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" says: If a snake appears in a city, a big war will break out within three years, and the country will be in great trouble.
Soon there was the Wangdun Rebellion.
In the first year of Emperor Wu Taixi's reign, a horse in Liaodong grew horns, which were three inches long below its ears.
According to Liu Xiang, this is a symbol of war.
After the emperor's death, the royal family was harmed by war, and this was fulfilled.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: If the ministers despise the lord, the country's government will not be smooth, and its monster is the horse with long horns. This means that there are not enough virtuous people.
He also said: When the emperor goes to war in person, the horses grow horns.
"Lu's Spring and Autumn Annals" says: When the emperor loses his way, the horse grows horns.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he was ignorant and lost his way, and he personally conquered Chengdu. This was fulfilled.
In December of the eighth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, the crown prince was about to enter school to pay homage to his ancestors. Sima Lun, Prince of Zhao, accompanied him by car. When they arrived at the south city gate, the horse stopped and the strong men could not push it.
Sima Lun got into the cart and the horse moved forward.
It's a horse disaster.
Tian Jie said this: Sima Lun does not know how to be a human being and will eventually rebel and cause chaos. He is not a person who can teach and behave politely.
In November of the ninth year of Wuyin, suddenly a stallion was frightened and ran to Tingwei's interrogation hall, neighed sadly and died.
Tian Jie said this, this is a sign of King Si falling off the wall and dying unjustly.
Appearing in Tingwei's hearing hall, this is God's will!
In February of the sixth year of Emperor Huai's reign in Yongjia, the divine horse neighed at the south gate.
In September of the second year of Jianxing reign of Emperor Min, a horse in Puzi County gave birth to a child.
Jingwu's "Yi Zhuan" said: There is no emperor above, the princes are fighting each other, and the monsters are horses and people.
At that time, the royal family was in decline, and the barbarians and Di people were invading each other. Wars were fought every day. Soon the emperor also fell into the hands of his enemies, so monsters appeared.
In the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Puyang, an official of Danyang County, played a horse with two heads separated from the front of the neck, and died after birth.
Dan Xingbiao said: This is a symbol of the two heads of government orders coming from a selfish door.
Later Wang Dun deceived the emperor.
During the Jiaxu period in May of the eighth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, a horse, as red as blood, ran from Xuanyang Gate into the palace, then circled out, and soon it was unknown where it was.
Ji Mao, the emperor was unwell.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
六月，崩。
此马祸，又赤祥也。
是年，张重华在凉州，将诛其西河相张祚，厩马数十匹，同时悉无后尾也。
安帝隆安四年十月，梁州有马生角，刺史郭铨送示桓玄。
案刘向说曰，马不当生角，犹玄不当举兵向上也。
玄不寤，以至夷灭。
石季龙在鄴，有一马尾有烧状，入其中阳门，出显阳门，东宫皆不得入，走向东北，俄尔不见。
术者佛图澄叹曰： 灾其及矣！
逾年季龙死，其国遂灭。
人痾魏文帝黄初初，清河宋士宗母化为鳖，入水。
明帝太和三年，曹休部曲丘奚农女死复生。
时又有开周世冢，得殉葬女子，数日而有气，数月而不能言，郭太后爱养之。
又，太原人发冢破棺，棺中有一生妇人，问其本事，不知也，视其墓木，可三十岁。
案京房《易传》曰： 至阴为阳，下人为上。
宣帝起之象也。
汉平帝、献帝并有此异，占以为王莽、曹操之征。
孙休永安四年，安吴民陈焦死七日复生，穿冢出。
干宝曰： 此与汉宣帝同事，乌程侯皓承废故之家，得位之祥也。
孙皓宝鼎元年，丹阳宣骞母年八十，因浴化为鼋，兄弟闭户卫之。
掘堂上作大坎，实水其中，鼋入坎游戏，一二日恆延颈外望。
伺户小开，便轮转自跃，入于远潭，遂不复还。
与汉灵帝时黄氏母同事，吴亡之象也。
魏元帝咸熙二年八月，襄武县言有大人见，长三丈余，迹长三尺二寸，发白，著黄巾黄单衣，柱杖呼王始语曰： 今当太平。
晋寻代魏。
武帝泰始五年，元城人年七十生角。
殆赵王伦篡乱之象也。
咸宁二年十二月，琅邪人颜畿病死，棺敛已久，家人咸梦畿谓己曰； 我当复生，可急开棺。
遂出之，渐能饮食屈伸视瞻，不能行语，二年复死。
京房《易传》曰： 至阴为阳，下人为上，厥妖人死复生。
其后刘元海、石勒僭逆，遂亡晋室，下为上之应也。
惠帝元康中，安丰有女子周世宁，年八岁，渐化为男，至十七八而气性成。
京房《易传》曰： 女子化为丈夫，兹谓阴昌，贱人为王。
此亦刘元海、石勒荡覆天下之妖也。
永宁初，齐王冏唱义兵，诛除乱逆，乘舆反正。
translation: 
In June, died.
This is a horse disaster, and it is Chixiang.
One year later, Ji was wilting in the distant bushes and was about to kill each other. Ten horses wrapped in the stable were missing their tails at the same time.
In October of the fourth year of Emperor Long'an's reign, there was a horse in Liangzhou with horns, and the governor Guo Quan gave it to Huan Xuan to see.
According to Liu Xiang, horses should not have horns, just like Huan Xuan should not raise an army to attack the emperor.
Huan Xuan didn't realize it, which led to the annihilation of his clan.
When Shi Jilong was in Ye, a horse's tail seemed to have been burned. It entered Zhongyang Gate and exited Haoyang Gate. It could not enter Shu Palace, so it ran to the northeast and disappeared after a while.
The sorcerer Fotucheng sighed and said: Disaster has arrived!
A year later, Shi Jilong died and his country perished.
In the early years of Huang Chu, Emperor Wen of Wei, the mother of Song Shizong in Qinghe turned into a turtle and entered the water.
In the third year of Taihe reign of Emperor Ming, the daughter of Qiu Xi Nong, a soldier of Cao Xiu's family, died and came back to life.
In addition, someone dug up Zhou Shi's tomb and found the woman who was buried. After a few days, she breathed and after a few months she could speak. Empress Dowager Guo liked her and adopted her.
Also, the Taiyuan people dug up the grave and opened the coffin. There was a living woman in the coffin. They asked her about herself. She didn't know. Looking at the trees on her grave, they were about thirty years old.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When yin becomes yang, those who are subordinate are superior.
It is a symbol of the rise of Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Ping and Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty had such strange things, and divination believed them to be signs of Wang Mang and Cao Cao.
In the fourth year of Yong'an reign of Sun Xiu, Chen Jiao, a commoner in Anwu, came back to life seven days after his death and came out of his tomb.
Gan Shi said: This is the same as the case of Emperor Mo Xuan. Sun Hao, Marquis of Wucheng, inherited the abandoned business, which is a good omen for gaining the throne.
In the first year of Sun Hao Baoding's reign, the eighty-year-old mother of Xuan Qian, a native of Danyang, turned into a turtle after taking a bath, so the Xuan Qian brothers closed the door to protect her.
Dig a big hole in the hall, fill it with water, and play in the hole. For a day or two, they often stretch their necks to look out.
When he saw the door opened slightly, he turned around and jumped out, into the pool in the distance, and never came back.
This is the same as what happened to Huang's mother during the reign of Emperor Mo Ling, and it is a symbol of the demise of the Wu Kingdom.
In August of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, there was a rumor in Xiangwu County that a giant appeared in Xiangwu County. He was more than three feet tall, with footprints three feet and two inches long. He had white hair, wore a yellow scarf and yellow single clothes. He leaned on a cane and called Wang Shi, saying: "There will be peace now."
The Jin Dynasty soon replaced Wei.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was a man in Yuancheng who grew horns on his head when he was seventy years old.
This is a sign that King Sima Lun usurped the throne and rebelled.
In December of the second year of Xianning, Yan Ji from Langxie died of illness and had been buried for a long time. Everyone in his family dreamed that Yan Ji said to them: I will be resurrected, so open the coffin quickly.
He was removed from the coffin and gradually became able to eat, drink, stretch his limbs, and see. However, he was unable to move or speak. Two years later, he died again.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: When the yin becomes yang, the inferior becomes the superior, and its evil spirit is the resurrection of the dead.
Later, Liu Yuanhai and Huqin rebelled against the rebellion and proclaimed themselves emperors, and destroyed Zhishi. This was the fulfillment of a subordinate becoming a superior.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, there was a woman named Zhou Shining in Anfeng. At the age of eight, she gradually became a man. By the age of seventeen or eighteen, her temperament and temperament became that of a man.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When a woman turns into a man, this is called Yin Sheng. A bitch wants to be a king.
Qian is also the evildoer Liu Yuanhai and Shi Le who overthrew the world.
In the early years of Yongning, King Sima Wen of Qi led a group of righteous soldiers to eliminate rebellion and bring order to the country.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
忽有妇人诣大司马门求寄产，门者诘之，妇曰； 我截脐便去耳。
是时，齐王冏匡复王室，天下归功，识者为其恶之，后果斩戮。
永宁元年十二月甲子，有白头公入齐王冏大司马府，大呼曰： 有大兵起，不出甲子旬。
冏杀之。
明年十二月戊辰，冏败，即甲子旬也。
太安元年四月癸酉，有人自云龙门入殿前，北面再拜曰： 我当作中书监。
即收斩之。
干宝以为 禁庭尊秘之处，今贱人径入而门卫不觉者，宫室将虚而下人逾上之妖也 。
是后帝北迁鄴，又迁长安，宫阙遂空焉。
元康中，梁国女子许嫁，已受礼娉，寻而其夫戍长安，经年不归，女家更以适人。
女不乐行，其父母逼强，不得已而去，寻得病亡。
后其夫还，问其女所在，其家具说之。
其夫迳至女墓，不胜哀情，便发冢开棺，女遂活，因与俱归。
后婿闻知，诣官争之，所在不能决。
秘书郎王导议曰： 此是非常事，不得以常理断之，宜还前夫。
朝廷从其议。
惠帝世，杜锡家葬而婢误不得出，后十年开冢祔葬而婢尚生。
始如瞑，有顷渐觉，问之，自谓再宿耳。
初，婢之埋年十五六，及开冢更生，犹十五六也，嫁之有子。
光熙元年，会稽谢真生子，头大而有发，两蹠反向上，有男女两体，生便作丈夫声，经一日死。
此皇之不极，下人伐上之痾，于是诸王有僭乱之象也。
惠帝之世，京洛有人兼男女体，亦能两用人道，而性尤淫，此乱气所生。
translation: 
Suddenly a woman came to Da Sima's gate and asked for a boarding house to give birth. The gatekeeper questioned her, and the woman said, "I will leave as soon as the umbilical cord is cut."
At that time, Sima Tongkuang, the king of Qi, restored the royal family, and the whole world was indebted to him. People of insight despised him, and he was actually killed later.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Yongning, a white-headed old man walked into the mansion of Sima Wen, King of Qi, and shouted: A large-scale army has risen in less than a year.
Sima Tong killed him.
In December of the following year, Sima Jian failed. That was one year.
In the fourth month of the first year of Tai'an, on Guiyou day, someone entered the temple from Yunlong Gate, bowed twice to the north and said: I am going to be the scribe.
He was caught and killed at that time.
Qian Bao believes that in the secret place of the Forbidden Court, lowly people can come in directly but the guards are not aware of it. This is a monster that the palace is going to be empty and the people below are overtaking the people above.
After that, the emperor moved north to Ye and then to Chang'an, leaving the palace empty.
During the Yuankang period, there was a woman in the Liang State who made a marriage contract and accepted the bride price. Soon her husband was stationed in Chang'an and did not come back for a whole year. The woman's parents married her to someone else.
The woman didn't like to go, so her parents forced her to go. She got sick and died soon after.
Later, her husband came home and asked where the woman was, and the woman's family explained the situation in detail.
Her husband went directly to the woman's grave. He was very sad, dug up the grave and opened the coffin. The woman soon came to life and went home with her.
After the son-in-law heard about it, he went to the government to plead his case and wanted to take the girl back, but the government could not make a decision.
Secretary Lang Wangdao commented: This is an unusual thing. We cannot use common sense to make a decision. It should be returned to the ex-husband.
The imperial court agreed with this opinion.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the Du Xi family buried dead people, and the slaves were mistakenly imprisoned until they could not get out of the tomb. Ten years later, the graves were dug up and buried together, and the slaves were still alive.
It felt like a drowsiness at first, but soon she gradually woke up. She said she had just slept for two nights.
At first, the slave was fifteen or sixteen years old when he was buried. When the grave was dug and he woke up, he was still fifteen or sixteen years old. He got married and gave birth to a son.
In the first year of Guangxi's reign, Xie Zhen of Kuaiji gave birth to a son. He had a big head and hair, and his two feet were turned upside down. He had both male and female genitals. His voice was like that of an adult man. He died a day later.
This is a malady caused by inappropriate behavior of the emperor, attacks by subordinates, and the appearance of tyranny among the kings.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, there were people in Jingluo who had both male and female genitals and could use them normally. They were particularly lascivious by nature and were born from disordered energy.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
自咸宁、太康之后，男宠大兴，甚于女色，士大夫莫不尚之，天下相仿效，或至夫妇离绝，多生怨旷，故男女之气乱而妖形作也。
怀帝永嘉元年，吴郡吴县万详婢生子，鸟头，两足马蹄，一手，无毛，尾黄色，大如枕。
此亦人妖，乱之象也。
五年五月，枹罕令严根妓产一龙，一女，一鹅。
京房《易传》曰： 人生他物，非人所见者，皆为天下大兵。
是时，帝承惠皇之后，四海沸腾，寻而陷于平阳，为逆胡所害，此其征也。
愍帝建兴四年，新蔡县吏任侨妻产二女，腹与心相合，自胸以上、脐以下各分，此盖天下未一之妖也。
时内史吕会上言： 案《瑞应图》，异根同体谓之连理，异亩同颖谓之嘉禾。
草木之异犹以为瑞，今二人同心，《易》称 二人同心，其利断金 ，盖四海同心之瑞也。
时皆哂之。
俄而四海分崩，帝亦沦没。
元帝太兴初，有女子其阴在腹，当脐下，自中国来至江东，其性淫而不产。
又有女子阴在首，渡在扬州，性亦淫。
京房《易妖》曰； 人生子，阴在首，天下大乱；在腹，天下有事；在背，天下无后。
于时王敦据上流，将欲为乱，是其征。
三年十二月，尚书驺谢平妻生女，堕地濞濞有声，须臾便死。
鼻目皆在顶上，面处如项，口有齿，都连为一，胸如鳖，手足爪如鸟爪，皆下勾。
此亦人生他物，非人所见者。
后二年，有石头之败。
明帝太宁二年七月，丹阳江宁侯纪妻死，经三日复生。
translation: 
Since Xianning and Taikang, the trend of favoring men has become more and more popular, even more so than lusting after women. Scholars and officials all advocate this custom, and people all over the world are eager to imitate it. Some couples even have no contact with each other. There are many situations where women have no husbands and men have no wives. Therefore, the auras of men and women are confused and evil spirits appear.
In the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, Wanxiang's slave in Wu County, Wu County, gave birth to a son with a bird's head, two feet like horse hooves, only one hand, no hair, and a yellow tail as big as a pillow.
The 逭 is also a human-demon, a symbol of war.
In May of the fifth year, Paohan ordered Yangen, a female prostitute, to give birth to a dragon, a daughter, and a goose.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: If a person gives birth to other things, which are not encountered by humans, there will be war.
At that time, the emperor succeeded Emperor Hui, and the world was in turmoil. Soon after, he fell into the hands of his enemies in Pingyang and was killed by rebel Hu, which was a sign.
In the fourth year of Emperor Min's Jianxing reign, the wife of Xincai County official Ren Qiao gave birth to two daughters. The two babies were connected from the abdomen to the heart, and separated from the chest to the navel. This is a monster that has not yet been unified in the world.
At that time, Lu Huihui, the internal historian, wrote: "Zhao Rui Ying Tu", different roots but the same body is called Lianli, not a seedling but the grains and ears are connected together is called Jiahe.
Abnormalities in the grass and trees are auspicious, and now the hearts of two people are connected together. "Book of Changes" says that two people are of the same mind, and their sharpness can break the metal. This is the auspicious sign that the world is united in one heart and one mind.
People at that time laughed at him.
Soon the world fell apart and the emperor fell into the hands of his enemies.
In the early years of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a woman whose vulva was in the abdomen, just below the navel. She came from Zhongyuan to Jiangdong. She was lustful by nature but could not give birth to children.
There was also a woman with a vulva on her head who took a boat to Yangzhou. She was also lustful by nature.
Jingfang's "Yi Yao" said: When a person gives birth to children, if the genitals are on the head, the world will be in chaos; if the genitals are on the abdomen, there will be changes in the world; if the genitals are on the back, there will be no offspring in the world.
At that time, Wang Dun occupied a high position and was about to cause chaos, so it was a sign.
In December of the third year, Shangshu Xie Ping's wife gave birth to a daughter. She made a buzzing sound after birth and died soon after.
The baby's nose and eyes are on the top of its head, its face is like a neck, its mouth is wrapped with teeth, all connected together, its chest is like a turtle, and its fingers and toes are like bird's claws, all hooked downwards.
Sending is also a strange thing in life, not something that people have ever encountered.
Two years later, there was the defeat of Shitou.
In July of the second year of Taining, Emperor Ming, the wife of Hou Ji of Jiangning in Danyang died and came back to life three days later.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
成帝咸康五年四月，下邳民王和侨居暨阳，息女可年二十，自云上天来还，得征瑞印绶，当母天下。
晋陵太守以为妖，收付狱。
至十一月，有人持柘杖绛衣诣止车门，口列为圣人使求见天子。
门侯受辞，辞称姓吕名赐，其言王和女可右足下有七星，星皆有毛，长七寸，天今命可为天下母。
奏闻，即伏诛，并下晋陵诛可。
康帝建元二年十月，卫将军营督过望所领兵陈渎女台有文在其足，曰 天下之母 ，灸之愈明。
京都喧哗，有司收系以闻。
俄自建康县狱亡去。
明年，帝崩，献后临朝，此其祥也。
孝武帝宁康初，南郡州陵女唐氏渐化为丈夫。
安帝义熙七年，无锡人赵未年八岁，一旦暴长八尺，髭须蔚然，三日而死。
义熙中，东阳人莫氏生女不养，埋之数日，于土中啼，取养遂活。
义熙末，吴豫章人有二阳道，重累生。
恭帝元熙元年，建安人阳道无头，正平，本下作女人形体。
translation: 
In April of the fifth year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, Wang He, a commoner from Xiapi, lived in Jiyang. His biological queen, Wu, was twenty years old. She said that she had come back from heaven and received the Zhengrui seal ribbon, and would be her mother's example.
The prefect of Jinling thought she was a monster, so he arrested her and put her in prison.
In November, someone holding a eucalyptus crutch and wearing red clothes stopped in front of the car door, saying that he was an envoy sent by the saint to see the emperor.
The gatekeeper asked her name and said that her surname was Lu Mingci. Wang Ke, Wang He's daughter, had seven stars under her right foot. The stars were all hairy and seven inches long. God had appointed Wang Ke as her mother's model.
After these words were reported to the emperor, Lu Ci was executed. The emperor also ordered the prefect of Jinling to execute Wang Ke.
In October of the second year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, Sutai, the daughter of Suyi, who was led by Suyi, the general of the Wei camp, had a calligraphy on her feet, which was called "Mother of the World". It became more obvious after moxibustion.
There was an uproar in Kyoto, and the relevant officials arrested Sutai and reported it.
Soon Sutai escaped from Jiankang County Prison.
The next year, the emperor died, and the queen came to the court to listen to the government. This was a sign of it.
In the early years of Emperor Xiaowu's Ningkang reign, the Tang family from Nanjun Prefecture gradually became a man.
In the seventh year of Yixi reign of Emperor An, Zhao Wei from Wuxi was eight years old. One day he suddenly grew eight feet tall and had a thick beard. He died three days later.
During the Yixi period, Mo, a native of Dongyang, gave birth to a daughter and did not want to raise her, so she buried her in the sky. The baby cried in the soil, so she took her home and raised her.
In the late years of Yixi, there was a man in Wu Yuzhang who had two penises, which were overlapping and long.
In the first year of Emperor Gong's Yuanxi reign, there was a man in Jian'an who had no head on his penis. He was very straight and looked like a woman underneath.


