Summary uses chunk [0, 9, 21, 1, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
《传》曰： 听之不聪，是谓不谋，厥咎急，厥罚恆寒，厥极贫。
时则有鼓妖，时则有鱼孽，时则有豕祸，时则有耳痾，时则有黑眚黑祥。
惟火沴水。
听之不聪，是谓不谋，言上偏听不聪，下情隔塞，则谋虑利害，失在严急，故其咎急也。
盛冬日短，寒以杀物，政促迫，故其罚常寒也。
寒则不生百谷，上下俱贫，故其极贫也。
君严猛而闭下，臣战栗而塞耳，则妄闻之气发于音声，故有鼓妖。
寒气动，故有鱼孽。
而龟能为孽，龟能陆处，非极阴也，鱼去水而死，极阴之薛也。
于《易》，《坎》为水，为豕，豕大耳而不聪察，听气毁，故有豕祸也。
一曰，寒岁豕多死及为怪，亦是也。
及人，则多病耳者，故有耳痾。
水色黑，故有黑眚黑祥。
凡听伤者，病水敢；水气病，则火沴之。
其极贫者，顺之，其福曰富。
刘歆《听传》曰有介虫之孽也。
庶征之恆寒，刘歆以为大雨雪，及未当雨雪而雨雪，及大雨雹，陨霜杀菽草，皆恆寒之罚也。
京房《易传》曰： 有德遭险兹谓逆命，厥异寒。
诛罚过深，当燠而寒，尽六日，亦为雹。
害正不诛兹谓养贼，寒七十二日，杀飞禽。
道人始去兹谓伤，其寒，物无霜而死，涌水而出。
战不量敌帮兹谓辱命，其寒，虽雨物不茂。
闻善不予，厥咎聋。
吴孙权嘉禾三年九月朔，陨霜伤谷。
案刘向说，诛罚不由君出，在臣下之象也 。
是时，校事吕壹专作威福，与汉元帝时石显用事陨霜同应。
班固书九月二日，陈寿言朔，皆明未可以伤谷也。
壹后亦伏诛。
translation: 
"The Biography" says: Hearing but not hearing is called not planning, and the crime is impatience, and the punishment is continuous coldness, and ultimately poverty.
Sometimes there are drum monsters, sometimes there are fish evils, sometimes there are pigs, sometimes there are strange ear diseases, sometimes there are black disasters and black signs.
It is fire overcoming water.
To listen but not to hear is called not to seek, which means that the superior listens to one's will, and the subordinate's feelings are blocked and cannot be communicated. If one considers interests, there will be failures due to extreme urgency, so the crime is to be impatient.
The days are short in midwinter, the cold hurts everything, and politics are urgent, so the penalty is lasting cold.
The cold will prevent all grains from growing, and the top and bottom will be impoverished, so in the end there will be poverty.
The monarch is harsh and mighty and blocks his subordinates' emotions. The ministers are frightened and panicked and unable to listen to opinions. The spirit of listening will arise, so there is a drum demon.
The cold air is moving, so there are fish evils.
Turtles can become monsters. Turtles can move on land, which is not extremely yin. Fish will die when they leave the water. They are extremely yin monsters.
In "Yi", "Kan" refers to water and pigs. Pigs have big ears but cannot hear clearly. Listening to Qi is damaged, so pigs are troubled.
It is also correct to say that in cold years more pigs die and become monsters.
As for people, there are many people with ear diseases, so they have strange ear diseases.
The color of water is black, so there will be black disaster and black auspiciousness.
Anyone whose hearing is damaged is diseased by water vapor; if water vapor is diseased, fire will be suppressed.
In the end, it is poverty. After adapting, its blessing is called wealth.
Liu Xin's "Listen to the Legend" says that there are beetle monsters.
The usual sign of continuous cold is heavy snow, snowfall when snow is not supposed to fall, heavy hail, and frost that freezes the seedlings and grasses to death. These are all punishments for continuous cold.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: A virtuous person who encounters hardships and dangers is called rebellious fate, and his abnormal sign is coldness.
The punishment of killing was too severe, it was cold when it should be hot, and there was hail for six whole days.
Framing loyalty and not punishing him is called raising thieves. It will be cold for seventy-two days and birds will freeze to death.
The wise people begin to leave this is called injury, this cold, all things are frost-free but will die, and the gushing water comes out.
Fighting without considering the strength of the enemy is called humiliation. With this kind of coldness, even though there is rain, everything is not lush.
He who hears good things but does not agree with them is guilty of being deaf.
On the first day of September in the third year of Jiahe of Wu Sun Quan, frost fell and damaged the grains.
Liu Xiang said that the punishment of execution is not determined by the king, but depends on the behavior of his ministers.
At this time, Lu Yi, the school official, was monopolizing power and doing things well, which was the same sign as when the five children of Yao were in power and were in power.
The inaccurate record is that it is September 2nd, and Chen Shou said it was the first day of the lunar month, both of which indicate that grain cannot be harmed when sending time.
Lu Yi was later executed.
summary:
Various calamities and portents, linking them to failures in the five behaviors of a ruler: appearance, speech, sight, hearing, and thought. A failure in hearing, described as "hearing but not hearing," is called "not planning." This occurs when a superior's will is blocked from subordinates, leading to impatience. The punishment for this is continuous cold, which prevents grain growth and results in poverty. Associated portents include drum monsters, fish evils, pig troubles, ear diseases, and black disasters. The text explains that cold air causes fish evils, and pigs, associated with water in the "Yi," suffer when the spirit of hearing is damaged. The color of water is black, hence black disasters. This condition is described as fire overcoming water.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
时则有脂夜之妖，时则有华孽，时则有牛祸，时则有心腹之痾，时则有黄眚黄祥，时则有金木水火沴土。
思心不容，是谓不圣。
思心者，心思虑也。
容，宽也。孔子曰： 居上不宽，吾何以观之哉！
言上不宽大包容，臣下则不能居圣位。
貌言视听，以心为主，四进皆失，则区无识，故其咎也。
雨旱寒燠，亦以风为本，四气皆乱，故其罚恆风也。
恆风伤物，故其极凶短折也。
伤人曰凶，禽兽曰短，草木曰折。
一曰，凶，夭也；兄丧弟曰短，父丧子曰折。
在人，腹中肥而包裹心者，脂也。
心区则冥晦，故有脂夜之妖。
一曰，有脂物而夜为妖，若脂夜污人衣，淫之象也。
一曰，夜妖者，云风并起而杳冥，故与常风同象也。
温而风则生螟螣，有裸虫之孽。
刘向以为： 于《易》，《巽》为风，为木。
卦在三月四月，继阳而治，主木之华实。
风气盛至，秋冬木复华，故有华孽。
一曰，地气盛同秋冬复华。
一曰，华者色也，土为内事，谓女孽也。
于《易》，《坤》为土，为牛。
牛大心而不能思虑，心气毁，故有牛祸。
一曰，牛多死及为怪，亦是也。
及人，则多病心腹者，故有心腹之痾。
土色黄，故有黄眚黄祥。
凡思心伤者，病土气；土气病，则金木水火沴之，故曰时则有金木水火沴土。
不言 惟 而独曰 时则有 者，非一冲气所沴，明其异大也。
其极凶短折者，顺之，其福曰考终命。
刘歆《思心传》曰： 时有臝虫之孽，谓螟螣之属也。
庶征恆风
魏齐王正始九年十一月，大风数十日，发屋折树。
十二月戊午晦尤甚，动太极东阁。
translation: 
Sometimes there may be demons of fat night, sometimes there may be flower evils, sometimes there may be cow troubles, sometimes there may be strange diseases in close friends, sometimes there may be yellow disasters and yellow signs of auspiciousness, sometimes there may be metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming the earth.
If your mind and heart don't allow it, this is called unholiness.
Thinking about the heart is thinking about the mind. Capacity means tolerance.
Confucius said: If the superior is not tolerant, how can I observe him?
It means that if the master is not tolerant and tolerant, his subordinates will not be able to occupy virtuous positions.
Appearance, speech, vision, and hearing are dominated by the heart. If all four are lost, then there will be darkness, so the disaster will be dark weather.
Rainfall, drought, cold, and heat are also wind-based, and the four qi are chaotic, so the penalty is continuous wind.
Continuous wind harms all things, so it is extremely short-lived.
Injury to people is called fierce, injury to animals is called short, injury to vegetation is called broken.
One thing is that bad luck is from heaven; when a brother loses a younger brother, it is called short, and when a father loses a son, it is called zhe.
For people, the fat in the belly and surrounding the heart is fat.
When the mind is dim, it is dark and unclear, so there is the demon of fat night.
One theory is that fat things become monsters at night, just like fat and water staining people's clothes at night, which is a sign of sexual immorality.
One theory is that night demons are clouds and winds that appear simultaneously and are dark and unclear, so they have the same symptoms as regular winds.
When it is warm and windy, moths and naked insects will appear.
Liu Xiang believes: In "Yi", "Xun" is wind and wood.
The hexagram is in March and April, following the Yang and governing the flowering and fruiting of vegetation.
The wind is strong, and the vegetation will bloom again in autumn and winter, so there are flowers.
It is said that if the earth's energy is strong, it will bloom again in autumn and winter.
When I say it, Hua means color, earth means internal affairs, and it refers to female evildoers.
In "Yi", "Kun" is soil, which refers to cow.
The cow has a big heart but cannot think, and the heart energy is damaged, so the cow is in trouble.
It is also correct to say that many cows die and become monsters.
For people, most of the time their close friends are sick, so they have strange illnesses in their close friends.
The color of earth is yellow, so there are yellow disasters and yellow auspiciousness.
Anyone whose thoughts and minds are hurt is caused by earthy energy. When earthy energy is sick, metal, wood, water, and fire will overcome earth. Therefore, it is said that metal, wood, water, fire, and earth may sometimes overcome earth.
Instead of saying that there is only sex, saying that sometimes there is sex is not a kind of restraint, which shows that it is very strange.
Its extreme is bad luck, short break, obedience, and its blessing is called test of death.
Suda's "Si Xin Zhuan" says: Sometimes there are evil insects, which refers to moths and the like.
The sign is continued wind.
In November of the ninth year of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, strong winds occurred for dozens of days, overturning houses and destroying trees.
The Wuwu Festival at the end of December was particularly serious, shaking the Donghe of Taiji Hall.
summary:
A failure in thought, described as "the mind and heart not allowing," is called "unholiness." This means a ruler is not tolerant, preventing subordinates from holding virtuous positions. The disaster is dark weather, and the punishment is continuous wind, which harms all things and leads to early death. Associated portents include the demon of fat night, flower evils, cow troubles, strange illnesses among close friends, and yellow disasters. The text notes that cows have large hearts but cannot think, so they suffer when heart energy is damaged. The color of earth is yellow, hence yellow disasters. This condition is described as metal, wood, water, and fire overcoming earth.

Chunk 21: 
original: 
是时，礼乐征伐自诸候出。
《传》曰： 皇之不极，是谓不建，厥咎眊，厥罚恆阴，厥极弱。
时则有射妖，时则有龙蛇之孽，时则有马祸，时则有下人伐上之痾，时则有日月乱行，星辰逆行。
皇之不极，是谓不建。
皇，君；极，中；建，立也。
人君貌言视听思心五事皆失，不得其中，不能立万事，失在眊悖，故其咎眊也。
王者自下承天理物。
云起于山，而弥于天；天气乱，故其罚恆阴，一曰： 上失中，则下强盛而蔽君明也。
《易》曰： 亢龙有悔，贵而亡位，高而亡民，贤人在下位而亡辅。
如此，则君有南面之尊，而亡一人之助，故其极弱也。
盛阳动进轻疾。
礼，春而大射，以顺阳气。
上微弱则下奋惊动，故有射妖。
《易》曰： 云从龙。
又曰： 龙蛇之蛰，以存身也。
阴气动，故有龙蛇之孽。
于《易》，《乾》为君，为马。
任用而强力，君气毁，故有马祸。
一曰，马多死及为怪，亦是也。
君乱且弱，人之所叛，天之所去，不有明王之诛，则有篡杀之祸，故有下人伐上之痾。
凡君道伤者，病天气。
不言五行沴天，而曰 日月乱行，星辰逆行 者，为若下不敢沴天，犹《春秋》曰 王师败绩于贸戎 ，不言败之者，以自败为文，尊尊之意也。
刘歆《皇极传》曰有下体生于上之痾。
说以为下人伐上，天诛已成，不得复为痾云。
恆阴吴孙亮太平三年，自八月沈阴不雨，四十余日。
是时，将诛孙綝，谋泄。
translation: 
At that time, the princes made the decision on ritual and music expeditions.
"The Biography" says: If the monarch's words and deeds are inappropriate, he will be said to be unable to achieve success, his crime will be ignorance, his punishment will be a long period of cloudy weather, and in the extreme, his country will be weak.
Sometimes there are shooting monsters, sometimes there are monsters like dragons and snakes, sometimes there are horse troubles, sometimes there are bad things like inferior people attacking superior people, sometimes the sun and the moon move out of order, and the stars go retrograde.
If the ruler's words and deeds are inappropriate, this is called being unable to achieve success.
The emperor is a monarch, extremely appropriate and established.
The monarch's appearance, speech, eyes, hearing, and thoughts, and the five behaviors are all defective. They are not appropriate and cannot achieve success. The mistakes are due to confusion and confusion, so the crime is due to confusion.
The king inherits the destiny and governs all things.
Clouds rise from the mountains and fill the sky; the air in the sky is chaotic, so the punishment is long cloudy days. Another way of saying it is that if the Lord's words and deeds are inappropriate, then the subordinates will become powerful and obscure the monarch's wisdom.
The Book of Changes says: A man who has become a dragon has regrets; he who is noble loses his title; he who is noble loses his people; a wise man loses his assistant when he is in a low position.
In this way, the king is the emperor, but there is no one to help him, so he is extremely weak.
Shengyang moves quickly.
According to the etiquette, in spring the emperor needs to perform sacrifices and perform the shooting ceremony to adapt to the yang energy.
If the upper level is weak, the lower level will be alarmed, so there is a shooting demon.
"Yi" says: The factory cloud follows the dragon.
He also said: Dragons and snakes hibernate in order to preserve themselves.
Yin Qi is moving, so there are evil spirits like dragons and snakes.
In "Yi", "Qian" means king and horse.
The manpower appointed is strong, and the monarch's spirit is damaged, so there will be trouble with the horse.
Another way of saying it is that horses die more and become monsters, which is also correct.
If the monarch is confused and weak, people will betray him, and God will not want him. If there is no sage monarch to be killed, there will be the danger of usurping the throne and killing himself, so there will be the disadvantage of attacking from below.
Anyone whose way of being a ruler is damaged will have abnormal Qi from Heaven.
The reason why we don't say that the five elements conquer the sky, but say that the sun and the moon move in disorder, and the stars move retrograde, is because the underworld dare not conquer the sky. Just like the Spring and Autumn Annals said that Zhou's army defeated Maurong. Instead of saying that Maorong defeated Zhou, it said that he defeated the battle. This is a way of respecting the noble.
Liu Xin's "Huang Ji Zhuan" said that there is a disadvantage that the lower body is born in the upper body.
He sent someone to explain that by attacking from below, God's punishment has become a reality and it can no longer be a disaster.
During the three years of peace in Sun Liang in the state of Wu, it started to be gloomy and rainless from August for more than forty days.
At that time, he was preparing to kill Sun Sui, but the plan was leaked.
summary:
A failure in speech and action, described as "words and deeds being inappropriate," is called "being unable to achieve success." The punishment is a long period of cloudy weather, and in the extreme, the country becomes weak. Associated portents include shooting demons, monsters like dragons and snakes, horse troubles, and the disadvantage of subordinates attacking superiors. The text explains that if the upper level is weak, the lower level will be alarmed, causing shooting demons. Yin Qi moving causes dragon and snake evils. The horse, associated with the king in the "Yi," suffers when the monarch's spirit is damaged. The text states that when the ruler's way is damaged, the sun and moon move out of order and stars go retrograde.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
京房《易传》曰： 兴兵妄诛兹谓亡法，厥灾霜，夏杀五谷，冬杀麦。
诛不原情兹谓不仁，其霜，夏先大雷风，冬先雨，乃陨霜，有芒角。
贤圣遭害，其霜附木不下地。
佞人依刑兹谓私贼，其霜在草根土隟间。
不教而诛兹谓虐，其霜反在草下。
四年七月，雨雹，又陨霜。
案刘向说， 雹者，阴协阳也 。
是时，吕壹作威用事，诋毁重臣，排陷无辜。
自太子登以下咸患毒之，而壹反获封侯宠异，与春秋时公子遂专任雨雹同应也。
汉安帝信谗，多杀无辜，亦雨雹。
董仲舒曰： 凡雹皆为有胁，行专一之政故也。
赤乌四年正月，大雪，平地深三尺，鸟兽死者太半。
是年夏，全琮等四将军攻略淮南、襄阳，战死者千余人。
其后，权以谗邪数责让陆议，议愤恚致卒，与汉景武大雪同事。
十一年四月，雨雹。
是时权听谗，将危太子。
其后，硃据、屈晃以迕意黜辱，陈正、陈象以忠谏族诛，而太子终废。
此有德遭险，诛罚过深之应也。
武帝泰始六年冬，大雪。
七年十二月，又大雪。
明年，有步阐、杨肇之败，死伤甚众，不聪之罚也。
九年四月辛未，陨霜。
是时，贾充亲党比周用事，与鲁定公、汉元帝时陨霜同应也。
咸宁三年八月，平原、安平、上党、泰山四郡霜，害三豆。
是月，河间暴风寒冰，郡国五陨霜伤谷。
是后大举征吴，马隆又帅精勇讨凉州。
五年五月丁亥，钜鹿、魏郡雨雹，伤禾麦。
辛卯，雁门雨雹，伤秋稼。
六月庚戌，汲郡、广平、陈留、荥阳雨雹。
丙辰，又雨雹，陨霜，伤秋麦千三百余顷，坏屋百二十余间。
癸亥，安定雨雹。
七月丙申，魏郡又雨雹。
translation: 
Jingfang's "Yi Lai" said: Raising troops to kill at will is called a violation of law. The disaster is frost, which damages the grains in summer and the wheat seedlings in winter.
Killing without caring about love is called unkindness. There is frost. In summer, there is a strong thunder and wind. In winter, there is rain first, and then there is frost, which has horns like awns.
Sages and saints were killed, and frost clung to the trees and did not come down to the ground.
The treacherous person who relies on the criminal law is called a private thief, and the frost is in the cracks of the grass roots and soil.
Punishing without educating is called cruelty, and the frost is under the grass.
In July of the fourth year, there was hail and frost.
Liu Xiang said that hail is Yin Qi threatening Yang Qi.
At that time, Lu Yi had the power to slander important ministers and exclude innocent people.
Everyone from the prince Sun Deng down hated him, but Lu Yi was particularly favored by the feudal lord. It was the same as the sign of hail falling from the sky when the prince arbitrarily ruled the government in the day and autumn.
Emperor An of the Han Dynasty listened to the slander and killed many innocent people. It was also hail from the sky.
Dong Zhongshu said: Any hailstorm is caused by coercion and arbitrary politics.
In the first month of the fourth year of Chiwu, there was heavy snow, the ground was three feet deep, and most of the birds and beasts died.
In the summer of that year, Quan Cong and four other generals captured Jinlu and Saiyan, and more than a thousand people died in the battle.
After that, Jian Jiu scolded Lu Yi many times for listening to the slanderous words, and Lu Yi died in anger, which was the same as the incident of Liang Tong and Gen Shi Shi in the Han Dynasty.
In April of the eleventh year, there was hail.
At this time, Sun Quan listened to the slander and was about to endanger the prince.
After that, Zhu Ju and Qu Huang were deposed and humiliated for going against his will, Chen Zheng and Chen Xiang were reduced from their clans for their loyal admonitions, and the crown prince was eventually deposed.
This is a sign that a virtuous person will encounter danger and severe punishment.
In the winter of the sixth year of Emperor Wu's reign, there was heavy snow.
In December of the seventh year, it snowed heavily again.
In the second year, Youbu Chan and Yang Zhao were defeated, and many people were killed and injured. This was a punishment for being unable to listen to opinions.
At the end of April in the ninth year, frost fell.
At this time, the trusted cronies colluded with each other to control the government, which was the same sign of frost during the reign of Lu Dinggong and Mo Yuan.
In August of the third year of Xianning, there was frost in Pingyuan, Anping, Shangdang and Taishan counties, damaging three beans.
That month, there were storms and ice in Hejian County, and five frosts in the county damaged the grain.
After that, he launched a large-scale campaign against Wu, and Ma Long led his elite troops to conquer Liangzhou.
In the fifth month of the fifth year of Dinghai, hail fell in Julu and Wei counties, damaging the crops and wheat.
On Xinmao, hail fell in Yanmen County, damaging autumn crops.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, there was hail in Jijun, Guangping, Chenliu and Rongyang.
On Bingchen, hail and frost fell again, damaging more than 1,300 hectares of autumn wheat and destroying more than 120 houses.
Guihai, there is hail in peace.
In July Bingshen, there was another hailstorm in Wei County.
summary:
The text provides numerous historical examples of these portents. For continuous cold, it cites heavy snow, unseasonable frost, and hail, linking them to harsh punishments, framing of loyal officials, and unjust killings. Examples include frost damaging grains in the third year of Jiahe of Wu Sun Quan, and heavy snow in the fourth year of Chiwu. For continuous wind, it records strong winds overturning houses and breaking trees, linking them to ignorant and arbitrary rule, as during the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi. Earthquakes are extensively documented, attributed to the power of subordinates and the disorder of yin and yang, with examples from the reigns of Sun Quan, Emperor Wu of Jin, and Emperor Hui.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
十二月，废愍怀太子，幽于许宫。
明年，贾后遣黄门孙虑杀太子，击以药杵，声闻于外，是其应也。
苏峻在历阳外营，将军鼓自鸣，如人弄鼓者。
峻手自破之，曰： 我乡土时有此，则城空矣。
俄而作乱夷灭，此听不聪之罚也。
石季龙末，洛阳城西北九里，石牛在青石趺上，忽鸣，声闻四十里。
季龙遣人打落两耳及尾，铁钉钉四脚。
寻而季龙死。
孝武太元十五年三月己酉朔，东北方有声如雷。
案刘向说，以为 雷当托于云，犹君托于臣。
无云而雷，此君不恤于下，下人将叛之象也。
及帝崩而天下渐乱，孙恩、桓玄交陵京邑。
吴兴长城夏架山有石鼓，长丈余，面迳三尺许，下有盘石为足，鸣则声如金鼓，三吴有兵。
至安帝隆安中大鸣，后有孙恩之乱。
鱼孽魏齐王嘉平四年五月，有二鱼集于武库屋上，此鱼孽也。
王肃曰： 鱼生于水，而亢于屋，介鳞之物，失其所也。
边将其殆有弃甲之变乎！
后果有东关之败。
干宝又以为高贵乡公兵祸之应。
二说皆与班固旨同。
武帝太康中，有鲤鱼二见武库屋上。
干宝以为： 武库兵府，鱼有鳞甲，亦兵类也。
鱼既极阴，屋上太阳，鱼见屋上，象至阴以兵革之祸干太阳也。
至惠帝初，诛杨骏，废太后，矢交馆阁。
元康末，贾后谤杀太子，寻亦诛废。
十年之间，母后之难再兴，是其应也，自是祸乱构矣。
京房《易传》曰： 鱼去水，飞入道路，兵且作。
蝗虫《春秋》，螽。
刘歆从介虫之孽，与鱼同占。
魏文帝黄初三年七月，冀州大蝗，人饥。
案蔡邕说， 蝗者，在上贪苛之所致也 。
translation: 
In December, Prince Minhuai was deposed and imprisoned in Xu Palace.
The next year, Empress Jia sent Huangmen Sunlu to kill the prince and beat him with a pestle. The sound was heard outside the palace, which was a sign of his death.
Su Jun was in the barracks outside Liyang City. The general's drum sounded by itself, as if someone was playing with the drum.
Su Jun broke the drum with his own hands and said: Sometimes this happens in my hometown, and the city becomes empty.
Not long after, he rebelled and was killed, which was a punishment for being indifferent.
In the last years of Shi Jilong's life, nine miles northwest of Luoyang City, a stone cow was sitting on a bluestone foot. Suddenly it howled, and the sound spread for forty miles.
Shi Jilong sent people to knock off the ears and tail of the stone cow and nail its four feet with iron nails.
Shi Jilong died soon after.
On the first day of the third month of the fifteenth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, there was a sound like thunder in the northeast.
Liu Xiang said that he believed that thunder should rely on clouds, just like a king relies on his ministers.
If there are no clouds but thunder, this is a sign that the king is not considerate of his subjects and that they will rebel.
After Xiaowutong died and the world gradually became chaotic, Sun En and Huan Xuan invaded the capital one after another.
There is a stone drum on Xiajia Mountain of the Wuxing Great Wall, which is more than one foot long and has a diameter of about three feet. There is a rock underneath for support. When it sounds, it sounds like a golden drum. There is a war in the three counties.
During the Long'an period of Emperor An, there was a loud noise, and later there was the Huanmo Rebellion.
In May of the fourth year of King Jiaping of Wei Qi, two fish fell on the roof of the arsenal. This was a fish evil.
Wang Su said: Fish are born in the water, but they are as high as the roof. They are scaly animals and have lost their place.
Border generals will have to abandon their mail armor!
Later, there was indeed the defeat of Dongguan.
Wang Mo also thought it was a sign of the military disaster of Gaogui Township.
Both statements are the same as what Ban Gu said.
During the Taikang period of Emperor Wu, carp appeared twice on the arsenal house.
Wang Xuan believes: The arsenal is the weapons department, and fish have scales and armor, which is also a category of soldiers.
The fish is extremely yin, and the house is the sun. The fish appearing on the house symbolizes the extremely yin invading the sun with the disaster of war.
In the early years of Emperor Hui's reign, Gui was killed, the Queen Mother was deposed, and bows and arrows were fired at each other in the pavilions.
In the last years of Yuan Chen, he was framed and killed by the prince, and he was soon deposed and punished.
In ten years, the disaster caused by the mother happened twice. This was a sign, and the disaster took shape from then on.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: When fish leave the water and fly onto the road, war is about to happen.
"Spring and Autumn", locusts are katydids.
Liu Xin regarded it as a monster of beetles, which is the same as the divination of fish monsters.
In July of the third year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei, there was a severe locust plague in Jizhou and the people were famine.
Cai Yong said that the locust plague was caused by the Lord's greed and harshness.
summary:
The text also records instances of fish falling on arsenal roofs, interpreted as a sign of war, and locust plagues, linked to the lord's greed and harshness. Pig disasters, such as wild boars entering military camps, are seen as portents of failure and emptiness. Black and yellow mists are recorded as signs of impending doom or usurpation. Landslides and ground collapses are interpreted as signs of the emperor's way collapsing and the people losing favor. The appearance of dragons in wells is considered a bad omen, indicating that the ruler's virtue is at odds with fate. Finally, the text records numerous human anomalies, such as women turning into men, the dead coming back to life, and births of monstrous children, all interpreted as signs of social and political disorder, with subordinates overtaking superiors.

