Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
皇甫规张奂段颎皇甫规字威明，安定朝那人也。
祖父棱，度辽将军。
父旗，扶风都尉。
永和六年，西羌大寇三辅，围安定，征西将军马贤将诸郡兵击之，不能克。
规虽在布衣，见贤不恤军事，审其必败，乃上书言状。寻而贤果为羌所没。
郡将知规有兵略，乃命为功曹，使率甲士八百，与羌交战，斩首数级，贼遂退却。
举规上计掾。
其后羌众大合，攻烧陇西，朝廷患之。
规乃上疏求乞自效，曰：臣比年以来，数陈便宜。
羌戎未动，策其将反，马贤始出，颇知必败。
误中之言，在可考校。
臣每惟贤等拥众四年，未有成功，悬师之费且百亿计，出于平人，回入奸吏。
故江湖之人，群为盗贼，青、徐荒饥，襁负流散。
夫羌戎溃叛，不由承平，皆由边将失于绥御。
乘常守安，则加侵暴，苟竞小利，则致大害，微胜则虚张首级，军败则隐匿不言。
军士劳怨，困于猾吏，进不得快战以徼功，退不得温饱以全命，饿死沟渠，暴骨中原。徒见王师之出，不闻振旅之声。
酋豪泣血，惊惧生变。
是以安不能久，败则经年。
臣所以搏手叩心而增叹者也。
愿假臣两营二郡，屯列坐食之兵五千，出其不意，与护羌校尉赵冲共相首尾。
土地山谷，臣所晓习；兵势巧便，臣已更之。
可不烦方寸之印，尺帛之赐，高可以涤患，下可以纳降。
若谓臣年少官轻，不足用者，凡诸败将，非官爵之不高，年齿之不迈。
translation: 
Huangfu Guizhuan, whose courtesy name was Weiming, was from that county in Anding County.
His grandfather Huangfuleng was a general of Liao Dynasty.
His father, Huangfu Banner, was the Commander-in-Chief of Fufeng.
In the sixth year of Yonghe, the Western Qiang invaded Chang'an and the nearby Guanzhong areas, and surrounded Anding. General Ma Xian, the general who conquered the West, led troops from various counties to attack the Qiang, but they failed to win.
Although Huangfu Gui was a civilian at this time, he found that Ma Xian was not worried about the war and judged that he was bound to fail, so he wrote to the court stating Ma Xian's situation and his own views.
Soon Ma Xian was defeated by the Xiqiang. The county governor knew Huangfu Gui's strategy of using soldiers, so he appointed him as a meritorious officer and sent him to lead 800 armed soldiers to fight with the Qiang people and kill several enemies, so the bandits retreated.
Then he recommended Huangfu Gui to the position of planner.
Later, Qiang soldiers gathered in large numbers to attack, burn, and plunder Longxi, and the court thought it was a disaster.
Huangfu went to the imperial court and asked to serve the country, saying: In recent years, I have stated many times the measures to deal with the Western Qiang.
The Qiang Rong had not yet moved, so I expected him to rebel. As soon as Ma Xian sent troops, I knew he would be defeated.
These words said by chance are supported by facts everywhere.
I often think that Ma Xian and others have been holding troops for four years without success. The cost of suspending the army is calculated in tens of billions. This money comes from the common people and falls into the pockets of traitors.
Therefore, the common people in the rivers and lakes gathered together as thieves, there was famine in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and the old and the weak were scattered.
It turns out that the Qiang Rong rebelled, not when the world was at peace, because the border generals failed to appease and govern them.
They should be in peace, but they invade them. In order to obtain small benefits, they end up causing great harm. In order to prove that they won the battle, they often falsely reported the number of beheadings, and they kept it secret when they lost the battle.
The soldiers worked hard, were full of resentment, and were forced by the treacherous officials. They could not advance quickly to gain fame and retreat, and could not retreat to have enough food and clothing to survive. They starved to death in the ditch and left their corpses scattered everywhere. They saw the king's division send troops in vain, but did not see the king's division come back.
Weeping and weeping for God's sorrow, fearing that something might happen.
Therefore, the period of peace is very short, and once chaos breaks out, it lasts for many years.
This is what I sigh with clapping my hands and tapping my heart.
I hope to give me the strength of the two battalions of Ma Xian and Zhao Chong and the land of the two counties of Anding and Longxi. I will lead five thousand soldiers to sit down and eat. If there is an unexpected Qiang Rong incident, I will be responsible for the head and tail of Zhao Chong, the captain of the Qiang school.
The situation of the land and valleys is familiar to me; the military situation is convenient and I have rectified it.
You don't have to worry about using a square-inch seal to issue documents, and a foot of silk as a reward. High can eliminate worries, and low can accept surrender.
If it is said that I am young and have a low official rank, I cannot be used. Those generals who defeated the army are not high in official rank and young in age.
summary:
Huangfu Gui, courtesy name Weiming, was from Anding County. His grandfather served as a Liao general and his father as Commander-in-Chief of Fufeng. During the sixth year of Yonghe, when Western Qiang forces invaded Chang'an and surrounded Anding, General Ma Xian failed to defeat them. Huangfu Gui, though a civilian, recognized Ma Xian's impending defeat and wrote to the court about it. After Ma Xian was defeated, the county governor appointed Huangfu Gui as a meritorious officer. He led 800 soldiers against the Qiang, killing several enemies and causing the bandits to retreat. He was subsequently recommended as a planner.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
臣生长边远，希涉紫庭，恢慑失守，言不尽心。
梁冀忿其刺己，以规为下第，拜郎中。
托疾免归，州郡承冀旨，几陷死者再三。
遂以《诗》、《易》教授，门徒三百余人，积十四年。
后梁冀被诛，旬月之间，礼命五至，皆不就。
时，太山贼叔孙无忌侵乱郡县，中郎将宗资讨之未服。
公车特征规，拜太山太守。
规到官，广设方略，寇贼悉平。
延熹四年秋，叛羌零吾等与先零别种寇抄关中，护羌校尉段颎坐征。
后先零诸种陆梁，覆没营坞。
规素悉羌事，志自奋效，乃上疏曰：自臣受任，志竭愚钝，实赖兗州刺史牵颢之清猛，中郎将宗资之信义，得承节度，幸无咎誉。
今猾贼就灭，太山略平，复闻群羌并皆反逆。
臣生长邠岐，年五十有九，昔为郡吏，再更叛羌，豫筹其事，有误中之言。
臣素有固疾，恐犬马齿穷，不报大恩，愿乞冗官，备单车一介之使，劳来三辅，宣国威泽，以所习地形兵势，佐助诸军。
臣穷居孤危之中，坐观郡将，已数十年矣。
自鸟鼠至于东岱，其病一也。力求猛敌，不如清平；勤明吴、孙，未若奉法。
前变未远，臣诚戚之。
是以越职，尽其区区。
至冬，羌遂大合，朝廷为忧。
三公举规为中郎将，持节监关西兵，讨零吾等，破之，斩首八百级。
先零诸种羌慕规威信，相劝降者十余万。
明年，规因发其骑共讨陇右，而道路隔绝，军中大疫，死者十三四。
规亲入庵庐，巡视将士，三军感悦。
东羌遂遣使乞降，凉州复通。
先是，安定太守孙受取狼籍，属国都尉李翕、督军御史张禀多杀降羌，凉州剌史郭闳、汉阳大守越熹并老弱不堪任职，而皆倚恃权贵，不遵法度。
规到州界，悉条奏其罪，或免或诛。
羌人闻之，翕然反善。沈氐大豪滇昌、饥恬等十余万口，复诣规降。
规出身数年，持节为将，拥众立功，还督乡里，既无他私惠，而多所举奏，又恶绝宦官，不与交通，于是中外并怨，遂共诬规货赂群羌，令其文降。
天子玺书诮让相属。
规惧不免，上疏自讼曰：四年之秋，戎丑蠢戾，爰自西州，侵及泾阳，旧都惧骇，朝廷西顾。
明诏不以臣愚驽，急使军就道。
幸蒙威灵，遂振国命，羌戎诸种，大小稽首，辄移书营郡，以访诛纳，所省之费，一亿以上。
translation: 
I grew up in a remote place and seldom came to the capital. I was so frightened that I did not speak out everything that was in my heart.
Liang Ji hated Huangfu Gui for mocking him, so he took Huangfu Gui as his subordinate and appointed him as a doctor.
Huangfu Gui excused himself from official duties and returned home due to illness. The prefectures and counties followed Liang Ji's will and almost framed him to death several times.
Huangfu taught more than 300 students using "Poetry" and "Yi" for a total of fourteen years.
Later, Liang Ji was killed. Within a month, the court summoned him five times with courtesy, but he failed.
At this time, the Taishan bandit uncle Sun Wuji invaded the counties, and Zhonglang conquered Zongzi without success.
The character of the bus was called Huangfu Gui, who was appointed as the prefect of Taishan.
Huangfu Gui took office and launched various conquest strategies, and all the bandits were pacified.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Yanxi, the rebellious Qiang Lingwu and others and the Xianling Qiang tribe invaded and plundered Guanzhong. Duan Zhen, the Qiang school captain, was found guilty and summoned.
Later, all kinds of things went rampant and destroyed the camp.
Huangfu Gui was usually familiar with Qiang affairs and was determined to work hard, so Shangshu said: Since my appointment, I have been dull in ambition. It is only thanks to the leadership of the Yanzhou governor that I am honest and brave, and the loyalty of Zhonglang Zongzi has allowed me to uphold the discipline. Fortunately, I don't have a bad reputation.
Now that the cunning Qiang thieves have been exterminated, and most of the Taishan bandits have been put down, it is also heard that the Qiang groups are revolting.
I am Changqi, now fifty-nine years old. I used to be a county official. After several Qiang rebellions, I planned in advance and often said the right things.
I have a stubborn illness and am afraid of dogs and horses. Once I die, I will not be able to repay the emperor's great kindness. Please allow me to serve as an official and prepare a bicycle to comfort the three assistants, promote the country's prestige and grace, and use the familiar terrain and military forces to help the armies.
I have been living in poverty, isolation and danger, watching the commander-in-chief for decades.
From Niao Mo to Dong Dai, it was because the governor did not appease the Qiang and led to rebellion. The cause of the disaster was the same. If you want brave generals, it is better to have a peaceful politics of the Qing Dynasty and to study the military techniques of Wu Qi and Sun Wu than to have a county guard follow the law so that they will not rebel.
The memories of the Qiang rebellion in the past are still fresh in my mind, and I am really worried about this.
Therefore, I went beyond my duties and submitted a letter to fulfill my only patriotic intention.
In winter, all the Qiang people gathered together and were ready to move, and the court felt worried.
Sangong promoted Huangfu Gui to the rank of Zhonglang General, held the emperor's talisman to supervise the Guanxi soldiers, conquered Lingwu and others, defeated them, and beheaded eight hundred people.
There were more than 100,000 Qiang people who envied Huangfu Gui's prestige and persuaded each other to surrender.
The next year, Huangfu Gui took the opportunity to mobilize his cavalry to jointly attack Longyou. However, the roads were blocked and an epidemic broke out in the army. Three or four out of ten people died of the disease.
Huangfu Gui personally entered the nunnery to express condolences to the soldiers. The three armies were grateful and happy.
Because the Eastern Qiang sent envoys to beg for surrender, Liangzhou was no longer blocked.
At that time, Sun Gen, the governor of Anding, was very serious about bribery and corruption. Li Xi, the captain of the country, and Zhang Xun, the governor's censor, killed and surrendered the Qiang. Guo Hong, the governor of Liangzhou, and Zhao Xi, the governor of Hanyang, were both old and weak and could not hold their posts. However, they relied on powerful relatives and did not abide by the laws of the country.
Huangfu Gui arrived at the state border and reported their crimes one by one. Some were removed from their official positions and some were sentenced to death.
After hearing this, the Qiang people quickly surrendered. More than 100,000 people including Dianchang and Xongtian, the great tycoons of the Shen family, surrendered to Huangfu Gui.
Huangfu Gui was born a few years ago and held the Emperor's Talisman as a general. He led the people to perform meritorious service and returned to supervise the countryside. He had no personal favors. On the contrary, he reported many bad people and bad deeds. He also hated eunuchs deeply and refused to associate with them. As a result, people inside and outside the court complained about him, and they all falsely accused Huangfu Gui of bribing the Qiang people and causing them to surrender.
The emperor issued edicts one after another.
Huangfu Gui was afraid that he would be killed, so he complained to Shangshu: In the autumn of the fourth year, Rong Chou made a fool of himself to cause chaos. From Xizhou to Jingyang, the old capital was frightened and the imperial court looked westward.
The imperial edict of the Ming Dynasty did not consider me a fool and ordered me to urgently lead the army on the road.
Thanks to the emperor's power, the country's fortunes were greatly boosted. Qiang and Rong, large and small, kowtowed and submitted. I immediately sent a letter to the military camp and the county guard to inquire how many they had killed and how many they had surrendered. This saved the cost, which was more than 100 million.
summary:
When Qiang soldiers later gathered to attack Longxi, Huangfu Gui petitioned the emperor, explaining that the Qiang rebellion resulted from border generals failing to properly govern, instead invading peaceful territories for small gains, falsely reporting victories, and concealing defeats. He requested command of troops from two battalions and two counties to lead 5,000 soldiers against the Qiang, but the emperor did not use him at that time. During the reigns of Emperors Chong and Zhi, when Empress Dowager Liang held power, Huangfu Gui was praised as virtuous and upright. He criticized the court for allowing treacherous ministers to accumulate wealth, sell official positions, and disturb the world. He specifically condemned General Liang Ji and others for their misconduct, urging the dismissal of corrupt officials. Liang Ji hated Huangfu Gui for mocking him and appointed him as a doctor, but Huangfu Gui excused himself due to illness and returned home, teaching over 300 students for fourteen years. After Liang Ji was killed, the court summoned Huangfu Gui five times but he did not respond. He was later appointed as the prefect of Taishan to deal with bandit Sun Wuji, and he successfully pacified all the bandits. In the fourth year of Yanxi, when Qiang forces invaded Guanzhong, Huangfu Gui, familiar with Qiang affairs, petitioned to serve. He was promoted to Zhonglang General and defeated the Qiang, beheading 800 people. Over 100,000 Qiang people surrendered due to his prestige. However, Huangfu Gui reported the crimes of corrupt officials, including the governor of Anding and others, leading to their removal or execution. This made him enemies both inside and outside the court, who falsely accused him of bribing the Qiang. Huangfu Gui defended himself, explaining that his actions saved over 100 million in costs and that his expenditures were documented. Despite his merits, eunuchs Xu Huang and Zuo Xiang demanded bribes from him, and when he refused, they framed him. He was sentenced to hard labor but was released after an amnesty.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
伏见中郎将张奂，才略兼优，宜正元帅，以从众望。
若犹谓愚臣宜充军事者，愿乞冗官，以为奂副。
朝廷从之，以奂代为度辽将军，规为使匈奴中郎将。及奂迁大司农，规复代为度辽将军。
规为人多意算，自以连在大位，欲退身避第，数上病，不见听。
会友人上郡太守王旻丧还，规缟素越界，到下亭迎之。
因令客密告并州刺史胡芳，言规擅远军营，公违禁宪，当急举奏。
芳曰： 威明欲避第仕涂，故激发我耳。
吾当为朝廷爱才，何能申此子计邪！
遂无所问。
及党事大起，天下名贤多见染逮，规虽为名将，素誉不高。
自以西州豪桀，耻不得豫，乃先自上言： 臣前荐故大司农张奂，是附党也。
又臣昔论输左校时，太学生张凤等上书讼臣，是为党人所附也。
朝廷知而不问，时人以为规贤。
在事数岁，北边威服，永康元年，征为尚书。其夏日食，诏公卿举贤良方正，下问得失。
规对曰：天之于王者，如君之于臣，父之于子也。诫以灾妖，使从福祥。
陛下八年之中，三断大狱，一除内嬖，再诛外臣。
而灾异犹见，人情未安者，殆贤愚进退，威刑所加，有非其理也。
前太尉陈蕃、刘矩，忠谋高世，废在里巷；刘祜、冯绲、赵典、尹勋，正直多怨，流放家门；李膺、王暢、孔翊，洁身守礼，终无宰相之阶。
至于钩党之衅，事起无端，虐贤伤善，哀及无辜。
今兴改善政，易于覆手，而群臣杜口，鉴畏前害，互相瞻顾，莫肯正言。
伏愿陛下暂留圣明，容受謇直，则前责可弭，后福必降。
对奏，不省。
迁规弘农太守，封寿成亭侯，邑二百户，让封不受。
translation: 
Zhang Huan, the commander-in-chief, is very talented and strategic. He should be appointed as the marshal in order to meet everyone's expectations.
If I can still serve in the military, I would like to be given a casual official position as Zhang Huan's assistant.
The imperial court approved his request, and Zhang Huan was appointed as the general to conquer the Liao Dynasty, and Huangfu Gui was appointed as the envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General. Later, Zhang Huan was promoted to the chief minister of agriculture, and Huangfu Gui was appointed as the general to conquer the Liao Dynasty again.
Huangfu Gui was very scheming. He thought that he was still in the high position, and wanted to retire quickly and stop serving as an official. He wrote many times to complain about his illness, but no one listened.
When the coffin of his friend Wang, the governor of Shangjun, passed away and returned to his hometown, Huangfu Gui crossed the border in white plain clothes and went to the lower pavilion to welcome the funeral.
Yin Lingke secretly told Hu Fang, the governor of Bingzhou, that Huangfu Gui stayed away from the military camp without permission and blatantly violated the ban, so he should report it immediately.
Hu Fang said: Wei Ming wanted to return home and leave his official career, so he inspired me.
I should love talents for the imperial court, so how can I help him with his plans?
Ignore him.
Later, party affairs broke out, and many celebrities and sages in the world were implicated. Although Huangfu Gui was a famous general, he was not usually well-known.
He considered himself a hero of Xizhou, and thought it was shameful that he was not involved in party affairs, so he wrote to him first and said: I used to recommend Zhang Huan, the great minister of agriculture, but this was a sign of being a party member.
Also, when I was undergoing reform through labor at the Left School, Taipei student Zhang Feng and others wrote a letter to appeal on my behalf. This was a party member trying to win over me, and I should be held accountable.
The imperial court knew this but did not hold anyone accountable. People at that time thought Huangfu Gui was a wise man.
During the past few years, nothing happened on the northern border. In the first year of Yongkang, he was recruited as a minister. In the summer of that year, there was a solar eclipse. The emperor ordered the ministers to recommend virtuous and upright people and ask about political gains and losses.
Huangfu Gui replied: God treats a king just as a king treats his ministers, and a father treats his son. He warns him with disasters and monsters, so that he can achieve happiness and good fortune.
During the eight years of the emperor's reign, he cleared prisons three times, eliminated his internal concubines once, and then executed his foreign ministers.
However, there are still disasters and uneasy relationships, probably due to the appointment of wise and foolish people and the implementation of criminal laws, which are also unreasonable.
Former Taiwei Chen Fan and Liu Ju were loyal and outstanding, but were discarded; Liu, Feng Nui, Zhao Dian, and Yin Xun were upright and resentful, so they were exiled; Li Ying, Wang Chang, and Kong Yi were honest and law-abiding, and were never appointed as prime ministers.
As for the so-called party imprisonment, it is simply created out of nothing to torture good people and cause harm to many innocent people.
Nowadays, it is easy to do good and eliminate evil. The officials kept silent because they took the past events as a warning and looked at each other, not daring to tell the truth.
I only hope that the emperor will be wise and tolerate honest and honest advice, then the mistakes of the past can be eliminated, and future blessings will come.
The emperor ignored his words.
He transferred Huangfu to serve as the prefect of Hongnong, and granted him the title of Marquis of Ting, with 200 households in the city. Huangfu humbly refused to comply with the regulations.
summary:
Huangfu Gui later recommended General Zhang Huan to replace him as commander. He was appointed as General Conquering Liao, but repeatedly requested retirement due to illness. When party affairs broke out, Huangfu Gui, considering himself a hero of Xizhou, felt ashamed not to be implicated and wrote to claim involvement, but the court did not hold him accountable. He died at age seventy-one, leaving twenty-seven written works. The historian commented that Huangfu Gui's words matched his actions, and he achieved success in military affairs without greed or arrogance.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
再转为护羌校尉。
熹平三年，以疾召还，未至，卒于穀城，年七十一。
所著赋、铭、碑、赞、祷文、吊、章表、教令、书、檄、笺记，凡二十七篇。
论曰：孔子称 其言之不怍，则其为之也难 。
察皇甫规之言，其心不怍哉！
夫其审己则干禄，见贤则委位，故干禄不为贪，而委位不求让；称己不疑伐，而让人无惧情。
故能功成于戎狄，身全于邦家也。
张奂字然明，敦煌渊泉人也。
父忄享，为汉阳太守。
奂少游三辅，师事太尉朱宠，学《欧阳尚书》。
初，《牟氏章句》浮辞繁多，有四十五万余言，奂减为九万言。
后辟大将军梁冀府，乃上书桓帝，奏其《章句》，诏下东观，以疾去官，复举贤良，对策第一，擢拜议郎。
永寿元年，迁安定属国都尉。
初到职，而南匈奴左薁鞬台耆、且渠伯德等七千余人寇美稷，东羌复举种应之，而奂壁唯有二百许人，闻即勒兵而出。
军吏以为力不敌，叩头争止之。奂不听，遂进屯长城，收集兵士，遣将王卫招诱东羌，因据龟兹，使南匈奴不得交通东羌。
诸豪遂相率与奂和亲，共击薁鞬等，连战破之。
伯德惶恐，将其众降，郡界以宁。
羌豪帅感奂恩德，上马二十匹，先零酋长又遗金八枚，奂并受之，而召主簿于诸羌前，以酒酹地曰： 使马如羊，不以入厩；使金如粟，不以入怀。
悉以金马还之。
羌性贪而贵吏清，前有八都尉率好财货，为所患苦，及奂正身洁己，威化大行。
迁使匈奴中郎将。
时，休屠各及朔方乌桓并同反叛，烧度辽将军门，引屯赤坑，烟火相望。
兵众大恐，各欲亡去。
translation: 
He was then transferred to the rank of Colonel Protecting Qiang.
In the third year of Xiping's reign, he was recalled to the court due to illness, but he did not arrive and died in Yuncheng at the age of seventy-one.
He wrote a total of twenty-seven articles including poems, inscriptions, tablets, praises, prayers, condolences, chapters, orders, letters, epistles, and notes.
Historian's comment: Confucius said: If you speak well, you will not feel ashamed, but doing it is not easy.
After examining what Huangfu Gui said, he would not be ashamed in his heart!
Seeking an official position based on one's own talents, and giving the position to others when he sees someone smarter than himself; therefore, his seeking an official position is not considered greedy, and giving the position to others is not asking for concessions; he does not doubt his own talents, and does not brag, so that people have no fear.
Therefore, you can achieve success in the army and Di, and achieve good things for your family and country.
◆The biography of Zhang Huan, named Ranming, was from Yuanquan County, Dunhuang County.
His father, Zhang, was the governor of Hanyang.
When Zhang Huan was young, he traveled to study at Sanfu, where he studied "Ouyang Shangshu" with Taiwei Zhu Chong as his teacher.
At first, "Mou's Chapters" contained many redundant words and phrases, with more than 450,000 words, but Zhang Huan cut it down to 90,000 words.
Later, the general Liang Jifu was recruited, so he wrote to Emperor Huan and presented his "Zhangju" and ordered him to serve in Dongguan. He was dismissed from the official position due to illness, and was recommended as a virtuous person. When the emperor asked for advice, he answered first, and was promoted to Yilang.
In the first year of Yongshou, he was transferred to the capital of Anding.
Just after taking office, more than 7,000 people including Zuo Ge, Qiequ Bode and others from the Southern Xiongnu invaded Meiji. The Eastern Qiang responded to them all again. There were only 200 people in Zhang Huan's position. When he heard the alarm, he led his troops out.
The military officials believed that they were not as powerful as the enemy and kowtowed to stop them. Zhang Huan refused to listen. They stationed at the Great Wall, gathered soldiers, and sent general Wang Wei to lure the Eastern Qiang. They occupied Qiuci so that the Southern Huns could not communicate with the Eastern Qiang.
The leaders of various ministries made peace with Zhang Huan, and together they attacked the Gejian and other ministries. They defeated the Gejian and other ministries in several consecutive battles.
Byrd was frightened and led his men to surrender, and the county was at peace.
The Qiang marshal was grateful for Zhang Huan's kindness and presented him with twenty horses. Chief Xianling also presented eight gold taels. Zhang Huan accepted it, but called the chief clerk in front of each Qiang, poured wine over it and said: If the horse is like a sheep, it cannot be put into the stable; if the gold is like millet, it cannot be put into the bosom.
All the golden horses were returned to the marshal and chief.
The Qiang people are greedy in nature, but they respect honest officials the most. In the past, the eight captains were all fond of wealth and suffered from them.
Promoted to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General.
At this time, Xiutuge and Wuhuan of Shuofang rebelled at the same time. They burned the general gate of Duliao and stationed in Chinankang, facing each other with fireworks.
The army was frightened and wanted to escape.
summary:
Zhang Huan, courtesy name Ranming, was from Dunhuang County. He studied at Sanfu and later reduced a lengthy text from over 450,000 words to 90,000 words. After serving as a gentleman, he was transferred to Anding. When Southern Xiongnu and Eastern Qiang forces invaded with 7,000 men, Zhang Huan led only 200 troops but stationed at the Great Wall, gathered soldiers, and lured the Eastern Qiang to make peace. Together they attacked and defeated the invaders. The Qiang marshal presented him with twenty horses and eight gold taels, but Zhang Huan returned them, saying gold and horses could not be kept. He was promoted to Xiongnu Zhonglang General. When Xiutuge and Wuhuan rebelled, Zhang Huan calmly sat in his tent while others panicked, secretly lured Wuhuan to make peace, and defeated the rebels. After Liang Ji was executed, Zhang Huan was dismissed as his subordinate. Huangfu Gui recommended him seven times. He later served as prefect of Wuwei, where he changed the custom of killing children born in certain months. He was appointed General of Liao Dynasty, and for several years the border was peaceful.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
奂安坐帷中，与弟子讲诵自若，军士稍安。
乃潜诱乌桓阴与和通，遂使斩屠各渠帅，袭破其众。诸胡悉降。
延熹元年，鲜卑寇边，奂率南单于击之，斩首数百级。
明年，梁冀被诛，奂以故吏免官禁锢。
奂与皇甫规友善，奂既被锢，凡诸交旧莫敢为言，唯规荐举前后七上。
在家四岁，复拜武威太守。
平均徭赋，率厉散败，常为诸郡最，河西由是而全。
其俗多妖忌，凡二月、五月产子及与父母同月生者，悉杀之。
奂示以义方，严加赏罚，风俗遂改，百姓生为立祠。
举尤异，迁度辽将军。
数载间，幽、并清静。
九年春，征拜大司农。
鲜卑闻奂去，其夏，遂招结南匈奴、乌桓数道入塞，或五六千骑，或三四千骑，寇掠缘边九郡，杀略百姓。
秋，鲜卑复率八九千骑入塞，诱引东羌与共盟诅。
于是上郡沈氐、安定先零诸种共寇武威、张掖，缘边大被其毒。
朝廷以为忧，复拜奂为护匈奴中郎将，以九卿秩督幽、并、凉三州及度辽、乌桓二营，兼察刺史、二千石能否，赏赐甚厚。
匈奴、乌桓闻奂至，因相率还降，凡二十万口。
奂但诛其首恶，余皆慰纳之。
唯鲜卑出塞去。
永康元年春，东羌、先零五六千骑寇关中，围礻殳礻羽，掠云阳。
夏，复攻没两营，杀千余人。
冬，羌岸尾、摩錜等胁同种复抄三辅。
奂遣司马尹端、董卓并击，大破之，斩其酋豪，首虏万余人，三州清定。
论功当封，奂不事宦官，故赏遂不行，唯赐钱二十万，除家一人为郎。并辞不受，而愿徙属弘农华阴。
旧制边人不得内移，唯奂因功特听，故始为弘农人焉。
建宁元年，振旅而还。
时窦太后临朝，大将军窦武与大傅陈蕃谋诛宦官，事泄，中常侍遭节等于中作乱，以奂新征，不知本谋，矫制使奂与少府周靖率五营士围武。武自杀，蕃因见害。
奂迁少府，又拜大司农，以功封侯。
奂深病为节所卖，上书固让，封还印绶，卒不肯当。
明年夏，青蛇见于御坐轩前，又大风雨雹，霹雳拔树，诏使百僚各言灾应。
奂上疏曰：臣闻风为号令，动物通气。木生于火，相须乃明。
translation: 
Zhang Huan sat safely in the curtain, talking and reciting to his disciples freely, and his subordinates finally settled down a little.
So he secretly lured Wuhuan to make peace with him, ordered the generals to behead Xiutu, and attacked them suddenly, defeating them, and all the Husbands surrendered.
In the first year of Yanxi, Xianbei invaded the border. Zhang Huan led Nan Shanyu to attack them and beheaded hundreds of them.
The next year, Liang Ji was executed. Zhang Huan was dismissed from office because he was a subordinate of Liang Ji, and was banned from serving as an official.
Zhang Huan and Huangfu Gui were good friends, but Zhang Huan had been imprisoned. None of his old friends and relatives dared to speak for Zhang Huan. Only Huangfu recommended Zhang Huan seven times.
After living at home for four years, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuwei.
Counties are best at balancing the burdens of the common people and leading and training the fleeing soldiers and civilians. Hexi was thus preserved.
There are many monsters and taboos in the customs of Hexi. All sons born in February and May, as well as those born in the same month as their parents, must be killed.
Zhang Huan taught him the responsibility of being a parent and set strict rewards and punishments. As a result, customs changed and the people built a shrine in his honor.
He was recommended by You Yi as the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the past few years, Youzhou and Bingzhou were quiet and peaceful.
In the spring of the ninth year, he was recruited and appointed as the chief agricultural officer.
When Xianbei heard about Zhang Huan's mobilization, that summer, he summoned the Southern Xiongnu and Wuhuan to invade the fortress in several groups. Some had five or six thousand cavalry, and some had three or four thousand cavalry. They invaded and plundered the nine surrounding counties, killing and plundering the people.
In autumn, Xianbei led eight or nine thousand cavalry to invade the fortress and lured the Dong Qiang to make an alliance with them.
So the Shen family of Shangjun, Anding Xianling and others invaded Wuwei and Zhangye together, causing great harm to the border area.
The court felt worried. Zhang Huan was then appointed as the Zhonglang General who protected the Xiongnu. According to the position of Jiuqing, he would oversee the three states of You, Bing, and Liang, as well as the two camps of Liao and Wuhuan. He also inspected the governor and inspected the competent and incompetent officials with two thousand stones. He was rewarded with many rewards.
When the Xiongnu and Wuhuan heard that Zhang Huan was coming, they led the Prime Minister back, and a total of 200,000 people surrendered.
Zhang Huan only killed the most guilty ones, and the rest of the people comforted and accepted them.
Only Xianbei went beyond the Great Wall.
In the spring of the first year of Yongkang, five or six thousand cavalry from Dong Qiang and Xian Ling invaded Guanzhong, surrounded 绻箳礻yu, and captured Yunyang.
In the summer, they attacked Yuying again and killed more than a thousand people.
In winter, Qiang Anwei, Mo Ni, etc., threatened the same species and robbed Sanfu again.
Zhang Huan sent Sima Yin Duan and Dong Zhuo to attack together. They defeated them completely, beheaded their leaders, captured more than 10,000 people, and pacified the three states.
In terms of merit, Zhang Huan should be ennobled, but Zhang Huan did not make friends with eunuchs, so the matter of ennobling him was not carried out. He only gave 200,000 yuan in money and appointed one of his family members as a man, but Zhang Huan did not accept it and asked to move to Huayin County, Hongnong.
Under the old system, people from the border were not allowed to move inward. Only Zhang Huan was allowed to move in because of his merit, so Zhang Huan became a Hongnong native.
In the first year of Jianning, he led his army back to the dynasty.
At this time, Empress Dowager Dou came to power. General Dou Wu and Tai Fu Chen Fan plotted to kill the eunuchs. The matter was leaked out, and Zhongchang Shi Cao Jie and others caused trouble. Because Zhang Huanxin was recruited, they did not know about the plan. Cao Jie and others pretended to entrust Zhang Huan to the imperial court, and Shaofu Zhou Jing led five battalions to surround Dou Wu. Dou Wu committed suicide, and Chen Fan was also killed.
Zhang Huan was promoted to the post of Shaofu and then to the post of Chief Agriculture Officer, and was granted the title of Marquis for his meritorious service.
Zhang Huan was devastated to be betrayed by Cao Jie, so he resolutely resigned in a letter and returned the seal and ribbon, but finally refused to accept it.
In the summer of the second year, a green snake was found in front of the imperial pavilion. There was also strong wind, rain, hail, and thunder uprooting trees, and the officials were ordered to report the unusual disaster.
Zhang Huan Shangshu said: I heard that wind is the command, animals are ventilated, wood is born from fire, and wind and fire interact to produce light.
summary:
When Xianbei invaded, Zhang Huan was recalled to defend against them. Over 200,000 Xiongnu and Wuhuan surrendered. He was later deceived by eunuch Cao Jie into surrounding General Dou Wu, who committed suicide. Zhang Huan was devastated and refused the marquis title granted for this action. He later petitioned to rebury Dou Wu and Chen Fan and vindicate those imprisoned for their association, but eunuchs opposed this. Zhang Huan was eventually banned from office due to party crimes. He educated thousands of disciples and wrote over 300,000 words. He died at age seventy-eight, leaving instructions for a simple burial. His sons were famous for cursive calligraphy.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
既而恐贼惊去，乃使驿骑诈赍玺书诏颎，颎于道伪退，潜于还路设伏。
虏以为信然，乃入追颎。
颎因大纵兵，悉斩获之。
坐诈玺书伏重刑，以有功论司寇。
刑竟，征拜议郎。
时，太山、琅邪贼东郭窦、公孙举等聚众三万人，破坏郡县，遣兵讨之，连年不克。
永寿二年，桓帝诏公卿选将有文武者，司徒尹颂荐颎，乃拜为中郎将。
击窦、举等，大破斩之，获首万余级，余党降散。
封颎为列侯，赐钱五十万，除一子为郎中。
延熹二年，迁护羌校尉。
会烧当、烧何、当煎、勒姐等八种羌寇陇西、金城塞，颎将兵及湟中义从羌万二千骑出湟谷，击破之。
追讨南度河，使军吏田晏、夏育募先登，悬索相引，复战于罗亭，大破之，斩其酋豪以下二千级，获生口万余人，虏皆奔走。
明年春，余羌复与烧何大豪寇张掖，攻没钜鹿坞，杀属国吏民，又招同种千余落，并兵晨奔颎军。
颎下马大战，至日中，刀折矢尽，虏亦引退。
颎追之，且斗且行，昼夜相攻，割肉食雪，四十余日，遂至河首积石山，出塞二千余里，斩烧何大帅，首虏五千余人。
又分兵击石城羌，斩首溺死者千六百人。
烧当种九十余口诣颎降。
又杂种羌屯聚白石，颎复进击，首虏三千余人。
冬，勒姐、零吾种围允街，杀略吏民，颎排营救之，斩获数百人。
四年冬，上郡沈氐、陇西牢姐、乌吾诸种羌共寇并、凉二州，颎将湟中义从讨之。
凉州刺史郭闳贪共其功，稽固颎军，使不得进。
义从役久，亦恋旧，皆悉反叛。
郭闳归罪于颎，颎坐征下狱，输作左校。
羌遂陆梁，覆没营坞，转相招结，唐突诸郡，于是吏人守阙讼颎以千数。
朝廷知颎为郭闳所诬，诏问其状。
颎但谢罪，不敢言枉，京师称为长者。
起于徒中，复拜议郎，迁并州刺史。
时，滇那等诸种羌五六千人寇武威、张掖、酒泉，烧人庐舍。
六年，寇势转盛，凉州几亡。
冬，复以颎为护羌校尉，乘驿之职。
明年春，羌封、良多、滇那等酋豪三百五十五人率三千落诣颎降。
当煎、勒姐种犹自屯结。
冬，颎将万余人击破之，斩其酋豪，首虏四千余人。
八年春，颎复击勒姐种，斩首四百余级，降者二千余人。
夏，进军击当煎种于湟中，颎兵败，被围三日，用隐士樊志张策，潜师夜出，鸣鼓还战，大破之，首虏数千人。
颎遂穷追，展转山谷间，自春及秋，无日不战，虏遂饥困败散，北略武威间。
颎凡破西羌，斩首二万三千级，获生口数万人，马牛羊八百万头，降者万余落。
封颎都乡侯，邑五百户。
永康元年，当煎诸种复反，合四千余人，欲攻武威，颎复追击于鸾鸟，大破之，杀其渠帅，斩首三千余级，西羌于此弭定。
而东羌先零等，自覆没征西将军马贤后，朝廷不能讨，遂数寇扰三辅。
其后度辽将军皇甫规、中郎将张奂招之连年，既降又叛。
桓帝诏问颎曰： 先零东羌造恶反逆，而皇甫规、张奂各拥强众，不时辑定。
translation: 
Because he was afraid that the thieves would flee in fear, he sent a post rider to pretend to deliver a seal to order Duan Jiong to retreat. Duan Jiong pretended to retreat on the road and set up an ambush on the retreating road.
Xianbei thought that Duan Jiong was really retreating and pursued Duan Jiong.
Duan Qiao then sent out a large number of troops, and all the Xianbei invaders were captured.
Duan Jong, however, deserved severe punishment for falsely claiming to be the official seal official. Because of his meritorious service, he was punished as a bandit and sent to the border to defend against enemies.
After serving his sentence, he was appointed as Yilang.
At this time, Taishan, Langfu bandits Dongguo Dou, Gongsun Ju and others gathered 30,000 people and destroyed the counties. The imperial court sent troops to suppress the rebellion, which could not be quelled for several years.
In the second year of Yongshou's reign, Emperor Huan ordered the ministers to elect those with all-round talents in both civil and military affairs as generals. Situ Yin Song recommended Duan Jiong, and Duan Jiong was awarded the title of Zhonglang General.
He conquered Dongguo Dou, Gongsun Ju and others and won a great victory. He killed Dongguo Dou and Gongsun Ju and gained more than 10,000 leaders. Some of the remaining party members fled and some surrendered.
He made Duanju a prince, rewarded him with 500,000 yuan, and appointed one of his sons as a doctor.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, he was promoted to the rank of Colonel Protecting Qiang.
When eight kinds of Qiang including Shaodang, Shaohe, Dangjian and Lejie invaded the borders of Longxi and Jincheng, Duan Jun led his troops and 12,000 Huangzhong uprising Qiang cavalry out of Huanggu and defeated them.
Pursuing the remaining troops who fled south across the Yellow River, they sent military officials Tian Yan and Xia Yu to recruit warriors to ascend first and use ropes to pull them up. They then fought at Luoting and won a great victory. They killed 2,000 people under their leader and captured more than 10,000 people. The remaining captives fled.
In the spring of the second year, the remaining Qiang captives and Marshal Shao He invaded Zhangye, captured Juluwu, and killed the officials and people of the country. They also summoned more than a thousand tribesmen of their own kind and concentrated their forces to attack Duan Jiong's troops at dawn.
Duan Jiong dismounted and fought with them. The battle lasted until noon, when all the swords and arrows were broken and the prisoners retreated.
Duan Jiao pursued, fighting and walking at the same time, fighting day and night, cutting flesh and swallowing snow. After more than forty days, they arrived at Jishi Mountain, the source of the Yellow River, and traveled more than 2,000 miles beyond the Great Wall. They beheaded and burned Marshal He, and killed and captured more than 5,000 people.
They also divided their troops to attack the Shicheng Qiang and killed 1,600 people who drowned.
More than ninety people from Shaodangzhong surrendered to Duan Jiong.
When the Qiang hybrids were stationed in Baishi, Duan Jong sent troops to attack, beheading and capturing more than 3,000 people.
In winter, Le Jie and Ling Wuzhong surrounded Yunjie, killing and robbing officials and people. Duan Juan organized a rescue camp and captured hundreds of people.
In the winter of the fourth year, Shen Di, Longxi Laojie, and Wuwu Qiang from Shangjun jointly invaded the two prefectures of Bing and Liang. Duan Jun led the Qiang uprising in Huangzhong to conquer them.
Guo Hong, the governor of Liangzhou, shared the military exploits with Duan Jiong and delayed and stopped Duan Jiong's army from advancing.
The uprising Qiang had been fighting for too long and missed their hometown, so they all rebelled.
Guo Hong put the blame on Duan Jiong, who was therefore arrested and imprisoned and sentenced to hard labor.
The Qiang pirates became more rampant, captured camps, and colluded with each other to disrupt various counties. So thousands of officials and people stayed at the court to appeal to Duan Jiong.
The imperial court knew that Duan Jiong had been framed by Guo Hong, and the emperor issued an edict to inquire about Duan Jiong's situation.
Duan Jiong just apologized and did not dare to say that he had been wronged. The capital called Duan Jiong an elder.
He was transferred from among the criminals, appointed as Yilang, and promoted to governor of Bingzhou.
At that time, five or six thousand Qiang people from Dian and other tribes invaded Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan and burned people's houses.
In six years, the enemy forces became stronger and Liangzhou almost fell.
In the winter, Duan Ji was appointed as the captain of the Qiang Guard, and he rushed to his post by post.
In the spring of the next year, 355 Qiang marshals including Fengshuang, Liangduo, and Dianna led 3,000 tribesmen and surrendered in front of Duan Jiao's army.
Dangjian and Lejiezhong also gathered and stationed themselves.
In winter, Duan Juan defeated them with more than 10,000 people, beheaded their commander, and killed more than 4,000 prisoners.
In the spring of the eighth year, Duan Juan attacked Lejiezhong again, beheading more than 400 people and surrendering more than 2,000 people.
In the summer, they marched to attack Dang Jianzhong in Huangzhong. Duan Zhao's soldiers were defeated and were besieged for three days. He used the hermit Fan Zhi to devise a strategy and secretly sent out troops at night, beating drums to fight back. They defeated the rebel army and killed thousands of people.
Duan Jiong pursued them fiercely, moving through the valleys, fighting every day from spring to autumn. As a result, the enemy was hungry and sleepy, so they fled and went north to invade the Wuwei area.
Duan Juan defeated the Xiqiang, beheading 23,000 people in total, captured tens of thousands of people, and captured 8 million horses, cattle and sheep. More than 10,000 tribesmen surrendered.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Duanjudu Township, with a settlement of 500 households.
In the first year of Yongkang, Dangjian Zhuzhong rebelled and gathered more than 4,000 people to attack Wuwei. Duan Jiong pursued Luanniao and completely defeated them. He killed their leader and beheaded more than 3,000 people. The Xiqiang was pacified from then on.
Since the Eastern Qiang Xianling and others defeated the general Ma Xian who conquered the West, the imperial court was unable to conquer and often harassed the three assistants.
Later, the Liao generals Huangfu Gui and Zhonglang general Zhang Huan tried to surrender year after year, but they always surrendered and then rebelled.
Emperor Huan issued an edict and asked Duan Qiang: "Xian Ling Dong Qiang rebelled against evil, but Huangfu Gui and Zhang Huan each had elite troops and could not quell them on time."
summary:
Duan Jiong, courtesy name Jiming, was from Wuwei County. He learned horse racing and archery as a youth but later turned to ancient learning. He served as a captain and used a clever ambush to capture Xianbei invaders. He was appointed Zhonglang General to suppress bandits in Taishan, killing their leaders and gaining over 10,000 heads. He was promoted to Colonel Protecting Qiang and fought numerous battles against various Qiang groups, killing thousands and capturing tens of thousands. He was imprisoned due to a governor's false accusations but was later released and appointed governor of Bingzhou. He was again appointed Colonel Protecting Qiang and defeated the Qiang, beheading 23,000 and capturing tens of thousands. He was granted a marquis title. When Emperor Huan asked about dealing with Eastern Qiang, Duan Jiong argued that the Qiang could not be won over with kindness and would rebel again after surrendering. He proposed using 5,000 cavalry, 10,000 infantry, and 3,000 chariots to completely defeat them in two or three years. The emperor agreed. Duan Jiong fought 180 battles, beheading over 38,600 enemies and capturing over 427,500 animals, at a cost of 4.4 billion. He was granted a county marquis title. He later relied on eunuchs and unjustly killed several people. He served as Taiwei but committed suicide in prison after being implicated in a murder. The three men were collectively known as "Liangzhou Sanming."

