Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 15, 21]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
武皇帝讳炎，字安世，文帝长子也。
宽惠仁厚，沈深有度量。
魏嘉平中，封北平亭侯，历给事中、奉车都尉、中垒将军，加散骑常侍，累迁中护军、假节。
迎常道乡公于东武阳，迁中抚军，进封新昌乡侯。
及晋国建，立为世子，拜抚军大将军，开府、副贰相国。
初，文帝以景帝既宣帝之嫡，早世无后，以帝弟攸为嗣，特加爱异，自谓摄居相位，百年之后，大业宜归攸。
每曰： 此景王之天下也，吾何与焉。
将议立世子，属意于攸。
何曾等固争曰： 中抚军聪明神武，有超世之才。
发委地，手过膝，此非人臣之相也。
由是遂定。
咸熙二年五月，立为晋王太子。
八月辛卯，文帝崩，太子嗣相国、晋王位。
下令宽刑宥罪，抚众息役，国内行服三日。
是月，长人见于襄武，长三丈，告县人王始曰： 今当太平。
九月戊午，以魏司徒何曾为丞相，镇南将军王沈为御史大夫，中护军贾充为卫将军，议郎裴秀为尚书令、光禄大夫，皆开府。
十一月，初置四护军，以统城外诸军。
乙未，令诸郡中正以六条举淹滞：一曰忠恪匪躬，二曰孝敬尽礼，三曰友于兄弟，四曰洁身劳谦，五曰信义可复，六曰学以为己。
是时晋德既洽，四海宅心。
于是天子知历数有在，乃使太保郑冲奉策曰： 咨尔晋王：我皇祖有虞氏诞膺灵运，受终于陶唐，亦以命于有夏。
惟三后陟配于天，而咸用光敷圣德。
translation: 
Emperor Wu's name was Yan and his courtesy name was Anshi. He was the eldest son of Emperor Wen of Jin Dynasty.
He is tolerant and kind, deep and magnanimous.
During the Jiaping period of Wei Dynasty, he was granted the title of Tinghou of Beiping, and successively served as the commander of the army, the commander of the army, the general of the base, the general of the cavalry, the general of the cavalry, and the title of the protector of the army and the holiday.
He went to Wuyang in the east to welcome Changdao Xianggong to the throne, moved to Zhongfujun, and was granted the title of Xinchang Xianghou in Jin Dynasty.
When the Jin State was established, he was established as the heir apparent and granted the title of General of Fujun, Kaifu, and Deputy Second Prime Minister.
At the beginning, because Emperor Jing was the heir of Emperor Xuan and died early without any heirs, Emperor Wen regarded Emperor Wu's younger brother Sima You as a heir of Emperor Jing. He took special care of him, thinking that he would be the prime minister and should pass on his great legacy to Sima You after his death.
Chang said: This is King Jing's world, and I will not get involved.
When it was time to decide on the crown prince, Emperor Wen wanted to appoint Sima You.
He Zeng and others persisted in their dissent and said: The Zhongfu Army is smart and martial, with extraordinary talents.
The hair is on the floor and the arms are above the knees. This is not the appearance of a minister!
It’s been settled ever since.
In May of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, he was established as the crown prince of Jin Dynasty.
On the ninth day of August, Emperor Wen died, and the prince inherited the titles of the Prime Minister and the King of Jin.
Orders were given to relax punishments, pardon sinners, appease the people, reduce corvee service, and observe three days of mourning in the country.
This month, a tall man appeared in Xiangwu, three feet tall, and said to the local Wang Shi: Now is the time of peace and prosperity.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, Wei Situ He Zeng became prime minister, Zhennan General Wang Shen became Yushi Dafu, Central Guards Jia Chong became Guard General, Yi Lang Pei Xiu became Shangshu Ling and Guanglu Dafu. These people can open offices and set up staff.
In November, the Fourth Guard Army was set up for the first time to command the armies outside the city.
On the 15th, he ordered the officials of all counties to recommend talents among the people according to six standards: the first one is loyalty, respect, diligence and self-restraint, the second one is filial piety, the third one is brotherhood and friendliness, the fourth one is self-discipline, hard work and humility, the fifth one is to strictly keep faith and words and deeds can be verified, and the sixth one is to study hard to cultivate oneself.
At this time, the virtues of the King of Jin were spread all over the world, and the whole world returned to his heart.
So the emperor knew that the movement of heaven would be transferred to Jin, so he sent the Taibao Zheng Chongfeng to read the policy book and said: Inform the king of Jin that my imperial ancestor has the Yu family. In response to the order of heaven, he received the Zen of Tao and Tang and became the throne. He also gave the world to Youxia.
Only Xia Yu, Shang Tang, and Zhou Wen were able to match the sky, all because their holy virtues were like the sun and moon shining brightly.
summary:
Emperor Wu, named Sima Yan with the courtesy name Anshi, was the eldest son of Emperor Wen of Jin. He was known for his tolerance, kindness, and magnanimity. During the Jiaping period of Wei, he was granted the title of Tinghou of Beiping and held various military positions. He welcomed Changdao Xianggong to the throne in Wuyang, became Zhongfujun, and was granted the title of Xinchang Xianghou in Jin. When the Jin state was established, he was made heir apparent and given the title of General of Fujun. Emperor Wen initially intended to pass the legacy to Sima You, but after opposition from He Zeng and others, Sima Yan was established as crown prince in May of the second year of Xianxi. Upon Emperor Wen's death in August, he inherited the titles of Prime Minister and King of Jin, implementing policies to relax punishments, pardon sinners, and reduce corvée.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
邓艾虽矜功失节，然束手受罪。
今大赦其家，还使立后。
兴灭继绝，约法省刑。
除魏氏宗室禁锢。
诸将吏遭三年丧者，遣宁终丧。
百姓复其徭役。
罢部曲将长吏以下质任。省郡国御调，禁乐府靡丽百戏之伎及雕文游畋之具。开直言之路，置谏官以掌之。
是月，凤皇六、青龙三、白龙二、麒麟各一见于郡国。
二年春正月丙戌，遣兼侍中侯史光等持节四方，循省风俗，除禳祝之不在祀典者。
丁亥，有司请建七庙，帝重其役，不许。
庚寅，罢鸡鸣鼓。
辛丑，尊景皇帝夫人羊氏曰景皇后，宫曰弘训。
丙午，立皇后杨氏。
二月，除汉宗室禁锢。
己未，常山王衡薨。
诏曰： 五等之封，皆录旧勋。
本为县侯者传封次子为亭侯，乡侯为关内侯，亭侯为关中侯，皆食本户十分之一。
丁丑，郊祀宣皇帝以配天，宗祀文皇帝于明堂以配上帝。
庚午，诏曰： 古者百官，官箴王阙。然保氏特以谏诤为职，今之侍中、常侍实处此位。
择其能正色弼违匡救不逮者，以兼此选。
三月戊戌，吴人来吊祭，有司奏为答诏。
帝曰： 昔汉文、光武怀抚尉佗、公孙述，皆未正君臣之仪，所以羁糜未宾也。
皓遣使之始，未知国庆，但以书答之。
夏五月戊辰，诏曰： 陈留王操尚谦冲，每事辄表，非所以优崇之也。
主者喻意，非大事皆使王官表上之。
壬子，骠骑将军博陵公王沈卒。
六月壬申，济南王遂薨。
translation: 
Although Deng Ai was proud of his merits and betrayed his integrity, he still folded his hands and confessed.
Today, the two families are granted amnesty and they can return to their hometown to raise heirs.
Reviving what was destroyed, continuing what was destroyed, simplifying the law and saving punishment.
The confinement of the Wei clan was lifted.
All generals, non-commissioned officers and officials who have been mourned for three years will be sent back to mourn for three years.
People who have been mourning for three years are exempted from corvee during the period of mourning.
It exempts generals and officials below from using their families as hostages, saves the supplies that counties and states transport to the capital, prohibits Yuefu, extravagant opera skills and ornately carved hunting equipment, opens the door to public opinion, and sets up admonishers to take charge of this matter.
During this month, six phoenixes, three blue dragons, two white dragons, and one unicorn appeared in each county.
On the seventh day of the first lunar month of the second year, Shi Guang and others were sent to all parts of the country to inspect the customs and eliminate the sacrifices that were not included in the ceremony.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, a minister requested the construction of seven temples. Emperor Wu thought that the corvee was too heavy and would not allow it.
On the eleventh day, those who sang rooster songs stopped.
On the 22nd, Emperor Zunjing's wife Yang Shi became Queen Jing, and the palace she lived in was called Hongxun Palace.
On the 27th, Queen Yang was established.
In February, the confinement of the Han clan was lifted.
On the eleventh day, Sima Heng, the king of Changshan, died.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The five titles of nobility are reserved for the heroes of the past.
If a person was originally a county marquis, his second son would be granted the title of Tinghou when he ascended the title; if he was originally a township marquis, his second son would be a Guannei marquis; if he was originally a Tinghou, his second son would be a Guanzhong marquis, and they would all receive one-tenth of the title of the title.
On the 29th, Emperor Xuan was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of heaven.
The edict issued on the 22nd said: In ancient times, hundreds of officials were set up to admonish the king for his mistakes. However, Bao's officials have a special job of admonishing. Today's Shizhong and Changshi are actually in this position.
Choose those who can correct violations and rescue deficiencies to take on this position.
On March 20th, people from Wu came to offer condolences, and a superior responded with an edict.
Emperor Wu said: In the past, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty recruited Wei Ta, and Emperor Guangwu recruited Gongsun Shu, but they did not follow the etiquette of a monarch towards his ministers. This was to win over those who did not surrender.
When Sun Hao began to send envoys, he did not know that Jin had established a country and established an emperor, so he only thanked him in letters.
On Wuchen day of the fifth month of Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: King Chenliu has a humble character and always has to go to court for everything. This is not my request for preferential treatment and respect for him.
The person in charge of the matter explained to him that as long as it was not a major matter, it would be enough to let King Chenliu's officials come to the table.
On the day of Renzi, the hussar general Prince Boling died.
On June 25th, King Sima of Jinan died.
summary:
In December of the first year of Taishi, Sima Yan ascended the throne as emperor after a formal ceremony in the southern suburbs, attended by numerous ethnic minorities. He issued an edict of general amnesty, changed the reign name, and granted various titles and rewards. He honored his ancestors with posthumous titles and established many kings and dukes. He promoted frugality, distributed palace treasures, and reformed the calendar. He also issued edicts to simplify laws, lift restrictions on certain clans, and allow officials to observe mourning periods. Throughout his reign, he conducted inspections, established institutions, and responded to natural disasters with relief efforts.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
十一月，大举伐吴，遣镇军将军、琅邪王伷出涂中，安东将军王浑出江西，建威将军王戎出武昌，平南将军胡奋出夏口，镇南大将军杜预出江陵，龙骧将军王浚、广武将军唐彬率巴蜀之卒浮江而下，东西凡二十余万。
以太尉贾充为大都督，行冠军将军杨济为副，总统众军。
十二月，马隆击叛虏树机能，大破，斩之，凉州平。肃慎来献楛矢石砮。
太康元年春正月己丑朔，五色气冠日。
癸丑，王浑克吴寻阳赖乡诸城，获吴武威将军周兴。
二月戊午，王浚、唐棼等克丹阳城。
庚申，又克西陵，杀西陵都督、镇军将军留宪，征南将军成璩，西陵监郑广。
壬戌，浚又克夷道乐乡城，杀夷道监陆晏、水军都督陆景。
甲戌，杜预克江陵，斩吴江陵督王延；平南将军胡奋克江安。
于是诸军并进，乐乡、荆门诸戍相次来降。
乙亥，以浚为都督益、梁二州诸军事，复下诏曰： 浚、彬东下，扫除巴丘，与胡奋、王戎共平夏口、武昌，顺流长鹜，直造秣陵，与奋、戎审量其宜。
杜预当镇静零、桂，怀辑衡阳。
大兵既过，荆州南境固当传檄而定，预当分万人给浚，七千给彬。
夏口既平，奋宜以七千人给浚。
武昌既了，戎当以六千人增彬。
太尉充移屯项，总督诸方。
浚进破夏口、武昌，遂泛舟东下，所至皆平。
王浑、周浚与吴丞相张悌战于版桥，大败之，斩悌及其将孙震、沈莹，传首洛阳。
孙皓穷蹙请降，送玺绶于琅邪王伷。
三月壬申，王浚以舟师至于建鄴之石头，孙皓大惧，面缚舆榇，降于军门。
浚杖节解缚焚榇，送于京都。
收其图籍，得州四，郡四十三，县三百一十三，户五十二万三千，吏三万三千，兵二十三万，男女口二百三十万。
其牧守下皆因吴所置，除其苛政，示之简易，吴人大悦。
translation: 
In November, they launched a large-scale attack on Wu. They sent General Zhenjun and King Yawang of Lang, Sima Qianyou to send troops to Tuzhong, General Andong Wang Hun to Jiangxi, General Jianwei Wang Rong to send troops to Wuchang, General Pingnan Hu Fen to send troops to Xiakou, General Zhennan Du Yu to send troops to Jiangling, General Longxiang Wang Jun and General Guangwu Tang Bin led the Bashu army to float down the river, with a total of more than 200,000 troops from the east and west.
Taiwei Jia Chong was appointed as the chief governor, and General Yang Ji, the champion of the line, was appointed as his deputy, with overall command of the army.
In the twelfth month, Ma Long attacked the traitor Shu Jie Feng, defeated the rebel army, killed Shu Jie Feng, Liangzhou was pacified, and Su Shen came to offer wood, bitter arrows and stone valerians.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Taikang, there were five-colored clouds surrounding the sun.
On the 25th, Wang Hun captured the cities in Laixiang, Wu Xunyang, and captured Wu Wuwei general Zhou Xing.
On the first day of February, Wang Jun, Tang Bin and others captured Danyang City.
On the third day of the lunar month, they captured Xiling again and killed the governor of Xiling, the general of the town army Liu Xian, the general of the southern expedition Cheng Xu, and the supervisor of Xiling Zheng Guang.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Wang Jun captured the Lexiang City of Yi Dao and killed Lu Yan, the eunuch of Yi Dao, and Lu Jing, the commander of the navy.
On the 17th, Du Yu captured Jiangling and killed Wu Yan, the governor of Jiangling. Pingnan general Hu Fen captured Jiang'an.
So all the armies advanced together, and the Wu garrison garrison in Lexiang, Jingmen and other places surrendered one after another.
On the 18th, Wang Jun was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in Yi and Liang prefectures, and an edict was issued: Wang Jun and Kang Bin went eastward, wiped out the Wu army in Baqiu, and together with Hu Fen and Wang Rong, pacified Xiakou and Wuchang.
Du Yu should pacify the Lingling and Guilin areas and recruit the soldiers and civilians of Hengyang.
After the soldiers passed, the southern part of Jingzhou could be pacified with a single message. Du Yu should allocate 10,000 people to Wang Jun and 7,000 people to Tang Bin.
After Xiakou was pacified, Hu Fenying distributed 7,000 men to Wang Jun.
After Wuchang was pacified, Wang Rongying divided 6,000 men into Tang Bin.
Taiwei Jia Chong moved to Xiang, and the governor had various troops.
Wang Jun conquered Xiakou and Wuchang, and then sailed eastward. Wherever he went, he immediately pacified them.
Wang Hun and Zhou Jun fought with Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti at Banqiao and defeated the Wu army. Zhang Ti and his generals Sun Zhen and Shen Ying were beheaded, and their heads were sent to Luoyang.
Sun Hao was at the end of his rope and asked for surrender. He gave the seal to King Langya and King Sima Qinyou.
On March 15, Wang Jun led his navy to the Stone City near Jianye, the capital of Wu. Sun Hao was so frightened that he bound his hands, carried the coffin, and surrendered in front of the military gate.
Wang Jun held the emperor's talisman, untied Sun Hao, burned the coffin, and sent it to the capital.
After collecting Wu's books and records, we found that in this battle against Wu, a total of four states, 43 counties, 313 counties, 523,000 households, 32,000 officials, 230,000 soldiers, and a population of 2.3 million men and women were captured.
Officials below the county governor level remained in their original positions. Wu's harsh rule was removed and simple laws and regulations were implemented. The people of Wu were very happy.
summary:
Emperor Wu's reign saw numerous military campaigns, including conflicts with Wu and various barbarian tribes. He expanded the empire, eventually conquering Wu in the first year of Taikang, capturing Sun Hao and unifying the realm. He implemented policies to stabilize the newly conquered territories, granted amnesty, and rewarded officials. He also faced internal challenges, such as rebellions and natural disasters, which he addressed through edicts and relief measures.

Chunk 21: 
original: 
平吴之后，天下乂安，遂怠于政术，耽于游宴，宠爱后党，亲贵当权，旧臣不得专任，彝章紊废，请谒行矣。
爰至未年，知惠帝弗克负荷，然恃皇孙聪睿，故无废立之心。
复虑非贾后所生，终致危败，遂与腹心共图后事。说者纷然，久而不定，竟用王佑之谋，遣太子母弟秦王柬都督关中，楚王玮、淮南王允并镇守要害，以强帝室。
又恐杨氏之逼，复以佑为北军中候，以典禁兵。
既而寝疾弥留，至于大渐，佐命元勋，皆已先没，群臣惶惑，计无所从。会帝小差，有诏以汝南王亮辅政，又欲令朝士之有名望年少者数人佐之，杨骏秘而不宣。
帝复寻至迷乱，杨后辄为诏以骏辅政，促亮进发。
帝寻小间，问汝南王来未，意欲见之，有所付托。左右答言未至，帝遂困笃。中朝之乱，实始于斯矣。
制曰：武皇承基，诞膺天命，握图御宇，敷化导民，以佚代劳。以治易乱。
绝缣綸之贡，去雕琢之饰，制奢俗以变俭约，止浇风而反淳朴。
雅好直言，留心采擢，刘毅、裴楷以质直见容，嵇绍、许奇虽仇雠不弃。
仁以御物，宽而得众，宏略大度，有帝王之量焉。
于是民和俗静，家给人足，聿修武用，思启封疆。
决神算于深衷，断雄图于议表。马隆西伐，王浚南征，师不延时，獯虏削迹，兵无血刃，扬越为墟。
通上代之不通，服前王之未服。
translation: 
After the extravagant and harsh government in the late Wei Dynasty, the people longed for the simplicity of ancient times, so they encouraged respect and simplicity, and urged honesty and lack of desire. A minister once reported that the green silk rope used to guard the cattle was broken, and he issued an edict to replace it with green hemp. He was to be lenient and graceful in his dealings with the court, and his laws were consistent. After the Ping Wu Dynasty, the world was stable, so he neglected political affairs, indulged in banquets, doted on the queen's family, relatives and nobles were in power, old ministers were not allowed to hold full-time posts, and the laws and regulations were disordered or abandoned. Please ask for bribes.
In his later years, he knew clearly that Emperor Hui could not shoulder the important responsibilities of the country, but relied on the wisdom of the emperor and his grandson and did not make up his mind to depose the prince.
He was also worried that the emperor's grandson was not born to Empress Jia and would eventually be in danger, so he plotted with his confidants about the future affairs. The planners came out one after another, and the decision was still pending for a long time. Finally, using Wang You's plan, he sent the prince's brother Qin Wang Sima Cambodia to supervise Guanzhong. Chu Wang Sima Wei and Huainan Wang Sima Yun guarded the key points to strengthen the imperial family.
Fearing the threat of the Yang family in the rear party, Wang You was appointed as the Marquis of the Northern Army to lead the imperial army.
Later, the illness worsened, and all the founding fathers of the country died. The ministers were panicked, doubtful, and at a loss. After Emperor Wu recovered from his illness, he issued an edict to let Sima Liang, king of Runan, assist in the government. He also wanted to ask several young and famous courtiers to assist him, so Yang Jun hid the edict secretly and did not publish it.
Emperor Wu soon fell into a coma again, and Empress Yang actually issued an edict to make Sima Jun assist the government and urge Sima Liang to advance.
Emperor Wu's illness improved slightly and he asked King Runan if he had come. He wanted to meet with King Runan and entrust him with something, but when no reply came, Emperor Wu changed the story. The chaos in the late Western Jin Dynasty actually started at this time.
Zhi said: Emperor Wu inherited the great cause, in fact, he complied with the destiny, controlled the world, universally educated the people, replaced labor with ease, and replaced chaos with rule.
No longer allow the four parties to pay tribute with fine silk fabrics, strive to get rid of carved decorations, suppress the trend of luxury and turn to frugality, stop frivolity and superficiality and return to simplicity.
They like to be outspoken and reverent, and carefully select talents. Plastic tunnel and tomb bumper are trusted because of their simplicity and integrity. Although haze crocodile and injection boy are enemies, they are not abandoned.
Rule the world with benevolence and righteousness, win the hearts of the people because of tolerance, be majestic and generous, and have the grace of an emperor.
At that time, the people were harmonious, their customs were peaceful, and their families were prosperous. Then they managed the army, practiced martial arts, and planned to expand the territory.
God's clever calculations and grand plans. Ma Long's expedition to the west and Wang Jun's expedition to the south did not delay the opportunity. The bandits disappeared, the blades were not stained with blood, and Yang Yue was reduced to ruins.
Communicate in places that were inaccessible in previous generations, and conquer countries that were not subject to previous kings.
summary:
In his later years, Emperor Wu became neglectful of political affairs, indulging in banquets and favoring the queen's family, leading to the rise of relatives and nobles in power. He failed to depose the incapable crown prince, leading to chaos after his death. Despite his initial successes, his reign ended with turmoil, as the Western Jin dynasty eventually collapsed due to his lack of foresight and poor decisions. Historians note that while he had a good beginning, his later years were marked by decline and disaster.

