Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 3, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫性灵之表，不知所以发于咏歌；感动之端，不知所以关于手足。
生于心者谓之道，成于形者谓之用。
譬诸天地，其犹影响，百兽率舞，而况于人乎！美其和平而哀其丧乱，以兹援律，乃播其声焉。
农瑟羲琴，倕钟和磬，达灵成性，象物昭功，由此言之，其来自远。
殷氏不纲，遗风馀孽，淫奏既兴，雅章奔散，《英》《茎》之制，盖已微矣。
孔子曰： 人能弘道，非道弘人。
周始二《南》，《风》兼六代。
昔黄帝作《云门》，尧作《咸池》，舜作《大韶》，禹作《大夏》，殷作《大濩》，周作《大武》，所谓因前王之礼，设俯仰之容，和顺积中，英华发外。
《书》称命夔典乐，教胄子，则《周官》所谓奏大吕，歌黄钟。
天贶来下，人祗动色，抑扬周监，以弘雅音。
及褒艳兴灾，平王逢乱，礼废亲疏，乐沈河海。
是以延陵季子闻歌《小雅》曰： 其周德之衰乎！犹有先王之遗风焉。
而列壤称孤，各兴吟咏。
魏文侯聆古乐而恐卧，晋平公听新声而忘食，先王之道，渐以陵夷。
八方殊风，九州异则。
秦氏并吞，遂专刑宪，至于弦歌《诗》《颂》，干戚旄羽，投诸烟火，扫地无遗。
汉祖提剑寰中，削平天下，文匪躬于德化，武有心于制作。
太后摈儒家之道，大臣排贾氏之言，搢绅先生所以长叹，而子政、仲舒犹不能已也。
炎汉中兴，明皇帝即位，表圭景而陈《清庙》，树槐阴而疏璧流；祀光武于明堂，以配上帝；召桓荣于太学，袒而割牲；济济焉，皇皇焉，有足观者。
自斯厥后，礼乐弥殷。
永平三年，官之司乐，改名大予，式扬典礼，旁求图谶，道邻《雅》《颂》，事迩中和。
translation: 
The expression of spirituality, for some reason, turns to chanting; the expression of emotion, for some reason, involves the hands and feet.
What arises from the heart is called Tao, and what is reflected in images is called Yong.
It is also influential to use this principle to look at the heaven and earth. All animals dance together, not to mention humans. They praise peace and mourn for chaos. In this case, the use of music can spread the sound.
Shennong made the harp and Fuxi made the harp, and then made the bell and the chime to express the soul and temperament, and to imitate the achievements of all things. From this point of view, its origin is very old.
The Yin Shang Dynasty had no discipline and left behind a very bad atmosphere. After the rise of obscene music, elegant music was lost and scattered. Works such as "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems" have declined.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people.
Starting from the Zhou Dynasty, there were two "Southern", and "Guofeng" was compatible with six generations.
In the past, the Yellow Emperor wrote "Yunmen", Yao wrote "Xianchi", Shun wrote "Da Shao", Yu wrote "Da Xia", Yin wrote "Da Xi", and Zhou wrote "Ren Wu". It is said that they inherited the etiquette of the virtuous kings of the previous generation and formulated the etiquette of bowing and behaving. The accumulation of gentleness is included, and the elegance is expressed on the outside.
"Shang Shu" said that Kui was ordered to take charge of music and teach the noble children, which is what "Zhou Guan" said about playing Da Lu and singing Huang Zhong.
When God's gift came down, people looked respectful and solemn, inheriting the glory of the Zhou Dynasty and promoting elegant music.
When Bao Si Yan Ji caused disaster, King Ping was in troubled times, etiquette was destroyed, relatives were alienated, and elegant music was lost in the rivers and seas.
Therefore, Yanling Jizi heard the song "Xiaoya" and said: "Probably it is the decline of virtue in the Zhou Dynasty that still has the legacy of the previous kings."
And the nations became kings and raised their own music.
Marquis Wen of Wei was afraid of falling asleep when he heard the music of ancient kings. Duke Ping of Jin forgot to eat when he heard new music. The way of the kings gradually declined because of this.
The customs are different in all directions, and the practices in Kyushu are different.
The Qin family annexed the world and unified the legal system. As for Xiange "Poetry". "Ode" and other works, Qian Qi Yanyu and other props were all thrown into the fireworks, and nothing was left behind.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his sword to revolt and pacified the world. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty devoted all his efforts to implement moral education, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty devoted himself to making rituals and music.
The Queen Mother abandoned Confucianism, and the ministers rejected Jia's remarks. Mr. Wu Shen sighed deeply, but Zizheng and Dong Zhongshu still could not give up.
When the Cambodian-Han Dynasty resurgence, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne, Li Tugui watched the shadow of the sun and used "Song of Zhou". In the "Qing Temple", a pagoda market was established to carry out enlightenment; in the Mingtang, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped to be worthy of enjoying God; Huan Rong was summoned to the Imperial Academy to perform the circumcision ceremony in person; it was solemn, solemn, grand and solemn, and it was worth seeing.
Since then, rituals and music have become more prosperous.
In the third year of Yonghu, the official position in charge of music in the government was renamed as Dayu Le. It promoted the laws and etiquette, searched for prophecy documents, and was close to the "Ya" and "Song" in moral terms, and close to neutrality in affairs.
summary:
The history of music and ritual in China from ancient times to the Jin Dynasty, emphasizing their spiritual and emotional significance. Spirituality and emotion are expressed through chanting and physical movement, with the heart's essence called Tao and its reflection in images called Yong. Music is used to spread sound, praise peace, and mourn chaos. Ancient sages like Shennong and Fuxi created instruments such as harps, bells, and chimes to express the soul and imitate nature. The Yin Shang Dynasty saw a decline in elegant music due to obscene influences, leading to the loss of works like "Five Heroes" and "Six Stems." Confucius remarked that people can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people. From the Zhou Dynasty onward, various rulers composed music, including the Yellow Emperor's "Yunmen," Yao's "Xianchi," and others. The text describes how music and ritual were used to educate and govern, with the "Shang Shu" and "Zhou Guan" referencing the teaching of music to noble children. However, during the reign of King Ping, etiquette was destroyed, and elegant music was lost. Yanling Jizi noted that the Zhou Dynasty's decline still retained the legacy of previous kings. As nations rose, they created their own music, leading to a gradual decline in the way of kings. The Qin Dynasty unified the world but destroyed all musical works and instruments. The Han Dynasty revived music and ritual under Emperors Gaozu, Wen, and Wu, though Confucianism was abandoned. Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty further promoted rituals and music, establishing a pagoda market and performing ceremonies in the Mingtang.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
汉自东京大乱，绝无金石之乐，乐章亡缺，不可复知。
及魏武平荆州，获汉雅乐郎河南杜夔，能识旧法，以为军谋祭酒，使创定雅乐。
时又有散骑侍郎邓静、尹商善训雅乐，歌师尹胡能歌宗庙郊祀之曲，舞师冯肃、服养晓知先代诸舞，夔悉总领之。
远详经籍，近采故事，考会古乐，始设轩悬钟磬。
而黄初中柴玉、左延年之徒，复以新声被宠，改其声韵。
及武帝受命之初，百度草创。
泰始二年，诏郊祀明堂礼乐权用魏仪，遵周室肇称殷礼之义，但改乐章而已，使傅玄为之词云。
祀天地五郊夕牲歌
天命有晋，穆穆明明。
我其夙夜，祗事上灵。
常于时假，迄用其成。
于荐玄牡，进夕其牲。
崇德作乐，神祇是听。
祀天地五郊迎送神歌
宣文蒸哉，日靖四方。
永言保之，夙夜匪康。光天之命，上帝是皇。
嘉乐殷荐，灵祚景祥。
神祗降假，享福无疆。
飨天地五郊歌
天祚有晋，其命惟新。
受终于魏，奄有黎民。
燕及皇天，怀和百神。
丕显遗烈，之德之纯。
享其玄牡，式用肇禋。
神祗来格，福禄是臻。
时迈其犹，昊天子之。
祐享有晋，肇庶戴之。
畏天之威，敬授人时。
丕显丕承，于犹绎思。
皇极斯建，庶绩咸熙。庶几夙夜，惟晋之祺。
宣文惟后，克配彼天。
抚宁四海，保有康年。
于乎缉熙，肆用靖民。
爰立典制，爰修礼纪。
作民之极，莫匪资始。
translation: 
After the chaos in Tokyo in the Han Dynasty, there was no epigraphic music at all, and the music was scattered and incomplete, and can no longer be known.
When Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty pacified Jingzhou, Du Kui, a native of Henan, who was appointed Yale Lang in the Han Dynasty, remembered the old rules and regulations, appointed him as a military adviser, and asked him to create Yale.
At that time, there were also Sanqi ministers Deng Jing and Yin Shang who were good at singing elegant music, singer Yin Hu who could sing songs for the ancestral temple suburbs, dancers Feng Su and Fu Yang who were familiar with the various dances of the ancestors, and Du Kui led them all.
They studied classic ancient books in detail, collected old stories and legends recently, studied ancient music, and began to set up shelves to hang bells and chimes.
However, during the early years of the Huang Dynasty, people such as Chai Yu and Zuo Yannian became favored because of new music, which changed the charm of their music.
In the early days when Emperor Wu of Jin received his destiny, everything was in the preliminary stage.
In the second year of Taishi, an edict was issued stating that the rituals and music of the Suburban Sacrifice Mingtang should be based on the rituals of the Wei Dynasty. In compliance with the principle that the Zhou Dynasty adopted the Yin and Shang ritual systems at the beginning, it was only necessary to modify the lyrics and let Fu Xuan compose the lyrics for the music.
Sacrifice songs for heaven and earth and the five suburbs:
God gave the Jin Dynasty his destiny because the way of heaven was far-reaching and the emperor was virtuous.
I will work day and night to serve God reverently.
Always comes on time and waits until ready.
A black bull is sacrificed, and one comes on the eve of the sacrifice to view the animals prepared for sacrifice.
When he upholds virtue and governs, he plays music, and both the gods and the earth hear this.
Sacrifice to the heaven and earth and the greeting and farewell songs of the five suburbs:
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen were so wonderful, they comforted everyone all day long.
Keep this country for a long time and never rest day or night. God is honored by magnifying God’s command.
Beautiful music has been presented again and again, and it is a great omen for the wonderful National Games.
Gods and earth only send blessings, and there is no end to the enjoyment of blessings.
A song to worship the five suburbs of heaven and earth:
God made the Jin Dynasty rule the world and gave orders to establish a new government.
Received the world from the Wei Dynasty and owned all the people.
Let the great gods rest assured, and let the gods be at peace.
Glorify the achievements left by the previous kings and their virtues and goodness.
Offering a black bull, imitating the founding method of the Western Zhou Dynasty.
Gods and gods came together, and fortune and fortune gathered together.
Patrolling the world on time, God Wu Tian bless us.
Bless us to enjoy the Jin Dynasty, and the people of the world support us.
Fear the majesty of God and carefully inform the people of the seasons.
Guangyao inherits the mandate from God and constantly ponders over his mission.
From then on, he set a glorious example of being respectful and diligent without rest.
I hope to work hard day and night for the good fortune of the Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Xuan and Emperor Wen, as monarchs, were able to comply with the will of God. Soothe the world and maintain prosperity.
Be respectful, diligent, and keep working hard, so you can stabilize the people of the world.
Establish rules and regulations and revise etiquette and laws.
The establishment of people's behavioral norms always begins at this time.
summary:
The text details various types of music, including great music for the world, sacrificial music for ancestral temples, and ceremonial music for different occasions. It explains the five tones (palace, shang, jiao, zheng, yu) and their associations with virtues and emotions, as well as the eight sounds (stone, leather, bamboo, wood, silk, earth, metal) and their corresponding winds. The twelve pitches (six yang and six yin) are linked to the twelve months and their characteristics. After the Han Dynasty's chaos, music was scattered. Emperor Wu of Wei appointed Du Kui to create Yale, but new music later changed its charm. Emperor Wu of Jin initially based rituals on the Wei Dynasty, with Fu Xuan composing lyrics for various sacrifices, including songs for heaven and earth, the five suburbs, and ancestral temples.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
荀勖又作新律笛十二枚，以调律吕，正雅乐，正会殿庭作之，自谓宫商克谐，然论者犹谓勖暗解。
时阮咸妙达八音，论者谓之神解。
咸常心讥勖新律声高，以为高近哀思，不合中和。
每公会乐作，勖意咸谓之不调，以为异己，乃出咸为始平相。
后有田父耕于野，得周时玉尺，勖以校己所治钟鼓金石丝竹，皆短校一米，于此伏咸之妙，复徵咸归。
勖既以新律造二舞，次更修正钟声。
会勖薨，未竟其业。
元康三年，诏其子籓修定金石，以施郊庙。
寻值丧乱，莫有记之者。
汉高祖自蜀汉将定三秦，阆中范因率賨人以从帝，为前锋。
及定秦中，封因为阆中侯，复賨人七姓。
其俗喜舞，高祖乐其猛锐，数观其舞，后使乐人习之。
阆中有渝水，因其所居，故名曰《巴渝舞》。
舞曲有《矛渝本歌曲》、《安弩渝本歌曲》、《安台本歌曲》、《行辞本歌曲》，总四篇。
其辞既古，莫能晓其句度。
魏初，乃使军谋祭酒王粲改创其词。
粲问巴渝帅李管、种玉歌曲意，试使歌，听之，以考校歌曲，而为之改为《矛渝新福歌曲》、《弩渝新福歌曲》、《安台新福歌曲》、《行辞新福歌曲》，《行辞》以述魏德。
黄初三年，又改《巴渝舞》曰《昭武舞》。
至景初元年，尚书奏，考览三代礼乐遗曲，据功象德，奏作《武始》、《咸熙》、《章斌》三舞，皆执羽龠。
及晋又改《昭武舞》曰《宣武舞》，《羽龠舞》曰《宣文舞》。
咸宁元年，诏定祖宗之号，而庙乐乃停《宣武》、《宣文》二舞，而同用荀勖所使郭夏、宋识等所造《正德》、《大豫》二舞云。
translation: 
Xun Xu also created twelve new rhythmic flutes, which were used to adjust the rhythm and standardize elegant music. They were used in the palace and courtyard for formal gatherings. They claimed that they could harmonize the palace and merchants, but the people who discussed it still called Xun Xu "Anjie".
At that time, Ruan Xian was proficient in eight tones, and the commentators called him "Shenjie".
Ruan Xian often criticized Xun Xu's new rhythm in his heart for its high tone, thinking that the high tone was close to sadness and melancholy, which was not in line with the spirit of Zhongzheng and harmony.
Every time the guild played music, Xunxu felt that Ruan Xian thought he was out of tune and regarded him as a dissident, so he transferred Ruan Xian out of the capital to serve as the Prime Minister.
Later, some farmers were farming in the fields and found that the jade rulers from the Zhou Dynasty, which Xun Xu used to check the bells, drums, gold, stone, silk, bamboo and other musical instruments he made, were all a little short. They were impressed by Ruan Xian's cleverness and recruited Ruan Xian back again.
Xun Xu created two dances based on the new rhythm, and later revised the instruments.
When Xun Xu died, his work was not completed.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xia Shao asked his son Gou Fan to repair musical instruments and use them in suburban sacrifices and ancestral temple sacrifices.
Soon he was in mourning and was not recorded.
Emperor Mo Gaozu sent troops from the Shu Desert to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. Fan Yin from Banzhong led the people from Bindi to follow him and act as the vanguard.
When the Qin Dynasty was pacified, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yan Zhonghou and the seven surnames of the guests were restored.
Their custom was to love dancing. Emperor Gaozu liked their brave elites and watched their dances many times, and later sent Yue to learn from them.
There is a Yushui River in Khotan. According to the place where they live, it is called "Bayu Dance".
The dance music includes "Songs from Mao Yu", "Songs from Annu Yu", "Songs from An Tai" and "Songs from Xingci", a total of four pieces.
The lyrics are very ancient and no one can understand its sentences.
In the early years of the Wei Dynasty, Wang Can, who served as a military adviser and offered wine, was asked to adapt its lyrics.
Wang Can asked Bayu generals Li Guan and Zhong Yu about the meaning of the songs, and tried to get them to sing them and listen to them. Based on this research, he studied the songs and adapted them into "Maoyu New Fortune Songs", "Zayu New Fortune Songs", "Antai New Fortune Songs", and "Xingci New Fortune Songs". "Xingci" is used to describe the virtues of the Wei Dynasty.
In the third year of Wei Huangchu's reign, "Bayu Dance" was renamed "Zhaowu Dance".
In the first year of Wei Liangchi's reign, the minister of state reviewed and studied the music left by the three generations in terms of ritual music. According to the symbol of merit, it was recommended to create three dances: "Wu Shi", "Xian Xi" and "Zhang Bin", all of which should hold feathers and harps.
In the Jin Dynasty, "Zhaowu Dance" was renamed "Xuanwu Dance" and "Yuxi Dance" was renamed "Xuanwen Dance".
In the first year of Xianning in Jin Dynasty, Xia Shao determined the name of the ancestral temple, so the two dances "Xuanwu" and "Xuanwen" were stopped in the ancestral temple music, and under the same situation, the two dances "Zhengde" and "Dayu" composed by Guo Xia, Song Shi and others were used.
summary:
The text includes numerous songs and poems used in rituals, such as those for the first day of the first lunar month, sacrifices to heaven and earth, and ancestral temple ceremonies. It describes the evolution of music under different rulers, including the adaptation of old melodies by Zuo Yannian and the creation of new songs by Xun Xu and Zhang Hua. Xun Xu developed new rhythmic flutes and adjusted the pitch, though Ruan Xian criticized the high tone as sorrowful. The text concludes with the history of the "Bayu Dance," which originated from the Banshun people and was adapted by Wang Can during the Wei Dynasty. In the Jin Dynasty, it was renamed "Xuanwu Dance" and later replaced by "Zhengde" and "Dayu" dances.

