Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴汉字子颜，南阳宛人也。
家贫，给事县为亭长。
王莽末，以宾客犯法，乃亡命至渔阳，资用乏，以贩马自业，往来燕、蓟间，所至皆交结豪杰。
更始立，使使者韩鸿徇河北。
或谓鸿曰： 吴子颜，奇士也，可与计事。 鸿召见汉，其悦之，遂承制拜为安乐令。
会王郎起，北州扰惑。
汉素闻光武长者，独欲归心。
乃说太守彭宠曰： 渔阳、上谷突骑，天下所闻也。
君何不合二郡精锐，附刘公击邯郸，此一时之功也。 宠以为然，而官属皆欲附王郎，宠不能夺。
汉乃辞出，止外亭，念所以谲众，未知所出。
望见道中有一人似儒生者，汉使人召之，为具食，问以所闻。
生因言刘公所过，为郡县所归；邯郸举尊号者，实非刘氏。
汉大喜，即诈为光武书，移檄渔阳，使生赍以诣宠，令县以所闻说之，汉复随后入。
宠甚然之。
于是遣汉将兵与上谷诸将并军而南，所至击斩王郎将帅。
及光武于广阿，拜汉为偏将军。
既拔邯郸，赐号建策侯。
汉为人质厚少文，造次不能以辞自达。
邓禹及诸将我知之。数相荐举，及得召见，遂见亲信，赏居门下。
光武将发幽州兵，夜召邓禹，问可使行者。
禹曰： 间数与吴汉言，其人勇鸷有智谋，诸将鲜能及者。 即拜汉大将军，持节北发十郡突骑。
更始幽州牧苗曾闻之，阴勒兵，敕诸郡不肯应调。
汉乃将二十骑先驰至无终。
曾以汉无备，出迎于路，汉即捴兵骑，收曾斩之，而夺其军。
北州震骇，城邑莫不望风弭从。
遂悉发其兵，引而南，与光武会清阳。
诸将望见汉还，士马甚盛，皆曰： 是宁肯分兵与人邪？ 及汉至莫府，上兵簿，诸将人人多请之。
光武曰： 属者恐不与人，今所请又何多也？ 诸将皆惭。
初，更始遣尚书令谢躬率六将军攻王郎，不能下。
translation: 
Wu Hanzi Ziyan was born in Wan County, Nanyang County.
His family was poor and he worked as the county pavilion chief.
In Wang Mang's last years, because his guests broke the law, he took off his name and fled to Yuyang. Due to lack of funds, he made a living by selling horses. He traveled between Yan and Ji, and made friends with heroes wherever he went.
Gengshi ascended the throne and sent envoy Han Hong to Hebei to recruit surrender.
Someone said to Han Hong, "Wu Ziyan is a wonderful man. You can discuss matters with him." Han Hong summoned Wu Han and was very happy. He appointed him as the magistrate of Anle County according to the emperor's order.
Coinciding with the rise of Wang Lang, Beizhou was disturbed and confused.
Wu Han had always heard that Guangwu was an elder, and he wanted to return to Guangwu.
He told the prefect Peng Chong: The cavalry in Yuyang and Shanggu that attack the enemy are famous all over the world.
Why don't you gather the elites from the two counties and join Liu Gong to attack Handan? This is a rare achievement. Peng Chong thought it was right, but the officials below all wanted to join Wang Lang, and Peng Chong could not take away his ambition.
Wu Han then resigned and stayed in the outer pavilion, trying to blackmail everyone, but he still couldn't figure out a way.
Seeing a man who looked like a Confucian scholar on the road, Wu Han sent people to summon him, provided him with food, and asked him what he had heard.
Therefore, Confucian scholars said that wherever Liu Gong went, all counties and counties were devoted to him; the man in Handan who arrogantly claimed the title was indeed not a member of the Liu family.
Wu Han was overjoyed, so he pretended to be a letter written by Guangwu himself, and sent it to Yuyang. He sent a Confucian scholar to Peng Chong and asked him to convince Peng Chong of what he had heard. Wu Han also followed him to Yuyang.
Peng Chong was very satisfied.
So Wu Han was sent to lead his troops and the generals from Shanggu to the south, killing General Wang Lang wherever they went.
After chasing Guangwu in Guang'a, he worshiped Wu Han as a partial general.
After conquering Handan, he was given the title of Marquis Jiance.
Wu Han was a man of loyal nature but lacked literary talent and could not express his thoughts in words in a hurry.
Deng Yu and other generals knew him well and recommended him many times. When he was summoned, Guangwu trusted him and often lived under his door.
General Guang sent troops to Youzhou and summoned Deng Yu at night to ask who could take on the task.
Deng Yu said: I have talked with Wu Han many times. He is brave and resourceful. Few generals can match him. That is to say, Wu Han was appointed as the general and ordered to carry the talisman to the north to attack the enemy's cavalry from ten counties.
Gengshi Youzhou Mu Miao once heard that he secretly mobilized troops and ordered the counties not to send troops accordingly.
Wu Han led twenty horses and galloped to the end.
Miao Zeng thought that Wu Han was unprepared and came out to meet him on the road. Wu Han immediately commanded his troops and cavalry to capture Miao Zeng and kill him, seizing his troops and horses.
Beizhou was shaken and frightened, and all the cities and towns obeyed.
So he mobilized all his troops and led them southward to join forces with Guangwu at Qingyang.
When the generals saw Wu Han coming back and his troops were very strong, they all said: "Is he willing to divide his troops with others?" When Wu Han arrived at the place where the general was conducting business, he presented the name list of the sergeants, and the generals invited everyone to accept their troops.
Guangwu said: "I'm afraid he was unwilling to accept requests from others before. Why are there so many requests now?" All the generals felt ashamed.
At first, Gengshi sent Shangshu Ling Xie Gong and six generals to attack Wanglang, but they could not capture it.
summary:
Wu Han, courtesy name Ziyan, was born into poverty in Wan County, Nanyang County, and served as a county pavilion chief. During Wang Mang's final years, he fled to Yuyang after his guests broke the law, supporting himself by selling horses and befriending heroes throughout Yan and Ji regions. When Gengshi ascended the throne, envoy Han Hong appointed Wu Han as magistrate of Anle County. During Wang Lang's uprising, Wu Han sought to join Guangwu, attempting to persuade Prefect Peng Chong to ally with Guangwu against Handan. When officials favored Wang Lang, Wu Han fabricated a letter from Guangwu and sent a Confucian scholar to convince Peng Chong, who ultimately agreed. Wu Han led troops south, killing Wang Lang's generals, and after pursuing Guangwu to Guang'a, was appointed partial general. Following the conquest of Handan, he was made Marquis Jiance. Wu Han was loyal but lacked literary talent. Deng Yu recommended him, and Guangwu trusted him deeply. When Guangwu needed a general for Youzhou, Deng Yu praised Wu Han's bravery and resourcefulness. Wu Han was appointed general and sent north with a talisman to mobilize troops from ten counties. When Gengshi's Youzhou governor Miao Zeng refused to comply, Wu Han captured and killed him, seizing his troops. All cities in Beizhou submitted. Wu Han then led his forces south to join Guangwu at Qingyang, presenting the roster of his troops to Guangwu, which shamed other generals who had doubted his willingness to share command.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
会光武至，共定邯郸，而躬裨将虏掠不相承禀，光武深忌之。
虽俱在邯郸，遂分城而处，然每有以慰安之。
躬勤于职事，光武常称曰 谢尚书真吏也 ，故不自疑。
躬既而率其兵数万，还屯于邺。
时光武南击青犊，谓躬曰： 我追贼于射犬，必破之。
尤来在山阳者，势必当惊走。
若以君威力，击此散虏，必成禽也。 躬曰： 善。 及青犊破，而尤来果北走隆虑山，躬乃留大将军刘庆、魏郡太守陈康守邺，自率诸将军击之。
穷寇死战，其锋不可当，躬遂大败，死者数千人。
光武因躬在外，乃使汉与岑彭袭其城。
汉先令辩士说陈康曰： 盖闻上智不处危以侥幸，中智能因危以为功，下愚安于危以自亡。
危亡之至，在人所由，不可不察。
今京师败乱，四方云扰，公所闻也。
萧王兵强士附，河北归命，公所见也。
谢躬内背萧王，外失众心，公所知也。
公今据孤危之城，待灭亡之祸，义无所立，节无所成。不若开门内军，转祸为祸，免下愚之败，收中智之功，此计之至者也。 康然之。
于是康收刘庆及躬妻子，开门内汉等。
及躬从隆虑归邺，不知康已反之，乃与数百骑轻入城。
汉伏兵收之，手击杀躬，其众悉降。
躬字子张，南阳人。
初，其妻知光武不平之，常戒躬曰： 君与刘公积不相能，而信其虚谈，不为人备，终受制矣。 躬不纳，故及于难。
光武北击群贼，汉常将突骑五千为军锋，数先登陷陈。
及河北平，汉与诸将奉图书，上尊号。
光武即位，拜为大司马，更封舞阳侯。
translation: 
Just as Guangwu arrived, they jointly pacified Handan, but Xie Gongbi looted and looted without asking for instructions to report, which Guangwu hated deeply.
Although they are both in Handan, they live in separate cities, but they often comfort him.
Xie Gong was diligent in his duties, and Guangwu often praised him and said: "Xie Shangshu is a real official." So I don’t doubt myself.
Xie Gong then led tens of thousands of his troops and returned to Ye.
At that time, Guang Wunan attacked Qingdu and said to Xie Gong: I will chase the thieves and shoot the dogs, and I will definitely defeat the thieves.
Anyone who comes to Shanyang will definitely be frightened away.
If you use your power to attack these scattered captives, you will definitely win. Xie Gong said: OK. When Qingdu was defeated, You Lai walked north to Longlu Mountain. After thanking him, he left the general Liu Qing and the governor of Wei County Chen Kang to guard Ye, while he led the generals to attack Qingdu.
The poor bandits fought hard, but their sharpness was unstoppable. Xie Gong was defeated and thousands of people died.
Since Guangwu was out of town, he sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack the city.
The Wu Han Dynasty sent debaters in advance to persuade Chen Kang: I heard that a wise person does not seek luck in danger, a moderately wise person can take advantage of danger as a merit, and a foolish person lives in danger as a means of self-destruction.
The arrival of danger is caused by human beings and cannot be ignored.
Now the capital is in chaos, and there are disturbances in all directions, and you know that.
King Xiao's soldiers were strong, and Hebei was under his command. This was seen by the public.
It is known to everyone that Xie Gong betrayed King Xiao internally and lost the hearts of the people externally.
The Duke is now guarding the isolated city, waiting for the disaster of destruction. There is no loyalty and integrity, and no integrity. It is better to open the door to welcome the Han soldiers, turn disaster into blessing, avoid the defeat of foolishness, and gain the merit of wisdom. This is the best plan!
Chen Kang thought so. So Chen Kang took Liu Qing and Xie Gong's wife and opened the door to welcome the Han soldiers into the city.
When Xie Gong returned to Ye from Longlu, he didn't know that Chen Kang had rebelled, so he entered the city lightly with hundreds of cavalry.
Han ambushes captured him and killed Xie Gong with his hands. All his troops surrendered.
Xie Gong, courtesy name Zizhang, was from Nanyang County.
At first, his wife knew that Guangwu could not live in harmony with him, so she often warned Xie Gong and said: You and Liu Gong are not harmonious together, but you believe his lies and make no preparations, and you will eventually be controlled by him. Xie Gong refused to accept it, so he suffered.
When Guangwu attacked groups of thieves in the north, Wu Han often led five thousand assault cavalry as the vanguard and attacked the bandits several times.
When Hebei was pacified, Wu Han and his generals held maps and books and paid tribute to the emperor.
Guangwu ascended the throne, worshiped Wu Han as Grand Sima, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang.
summary:
When Xie Gong, a Gengshi official, occupied Handan with his troops, Guangwu outwardly praised him while secretly planning against him. After Xie Gong was defeated by bandits at Qingdu, Guangwu sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack Ye. Wu Han sent debaters to persuade Chen Kang, the Wei county governor, to surrender, which he did, opening the gates to Han forces. When Xie Gong returned, he was captured and killed. Guangwu later attacked bandits in the north with Wu Han leading five thousand assault cavalry as vanguard. After Hebei was pacified, Guangwu ascended the throne and appointed Wu Han Grand Sima, granting him the title Marquis of Wuyang.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
建武二年春，汉率大司空王梁，建义大将军朱祐，大将军杜茂，执金吾贾复，扬化将军坚镡，偏将军王霸，骑都尉刘隆、马武、阴识，共击檀乡贼于邺东漳水上，大破之。降者十余万人。
帝使使者玺书定封汉为广平侯，食广平、斥漳、曲周、广年，凡四县。
复率诸将击邺西山贼黎伯卿等，及河内脩武，悉破诸屯聚。
车驾亲幸抚劳。
复遣汉进兵南阳，击宛、涅阳、郦、穰、新野诸城、皆下之。
引兵南，与秦丰战黄邮水上，破之。
又与偏将军冯异击昌城五楼贼张文等，又攻铜马、五幡于新安，皆破之。
明年春，率建威大将军耿弇、虎牙大将军盖延，击青犊于轵西，大破降之。
又率骠骑大将军杜茂、强弩将军陈俊等，围苏茂于广乐。
刘永将周建别招聚收集得十余万人，救广乐。
汉将轻骑迎与之战，不利，堕马伤膝，还营，建等遂连兵入城。
诸将谓汉曰： 大敌在前而公伤卧，众心惧矣。 汉乃勃然裹创而起，椎牛飨士，令军中曰： 贼众虽多，皆劫掠群盗， 胜不相让，败不相救 ，非有仗节死义者也。
今日封侯之秋，诸君勉之！ 于是军士激怒，人倍其气。
旦日，建、茂出兵围汉。
汉选四部精兵黄头吴河等，及乌桓突骑三千余人，齐鼓而进。
建军大溃，反还奔城。
汉长驱追击，争门并入，大破之，茂、建突走。
汉留杜茂、陈俊等守广乐，自将兵助盖延围刘永于睢阳。
永既死，二城皆降。
明年，又率陈俊及前将军王梁，击破五校贼于临平，追至东郡箕山，大破之。
北击清河长直及平原五里贼，皆平之。
时，鬲县五姓共逐守长，据城而反。
诸将争欲攻之，汉不听，曰： 使鬲反者，皆守长罪也。
translation: 
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Wu Han led the general Wang Liang, the general Zhu You of Jianyi, the general Du Mao, the Jin Wu Jiafu, the Yanghua general Jian Tan, the partial general Wang Ba, the cavalry captain Liu Long, Ma Wu, and Yinshi. They attacked the Tanxiang bandits on the Zhang River in the east of Ye. They defeated the bandits and more than 100,000 people surrendered.
The emperor sent envoys to seal Wu Han as the Marquis of Guangping, with four counties in total: Guangping, Kuizhang, Quzhou and Guangnian.
Wu Han again led his generals to attack the bandits Li Boxing and others in the western mountains of Ye, and pursued them to Hanoi Wu, where they defeated all the bandits' gatherings.
Guangwu personally came to express his condolences.
Wu Han was sent back to march into Nanyang County, attack Wan, Nie, Yang, Li, Rang and Xinye cities, and captured them all.
He led his troops to the south, fought with Qin Feng on the Huangyou River, and defeated Qin Feng.
He and the partial general Feng Yi attacked Zhang Wen and others on the fifth floor of Changcheng. They also attacked Bronze Horse and Five Flags in Xin'an, and defeated them all.
In the spring of the next year, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan and Huya General Gai Yan to attack Qingdu in the west of Zhejiang, defeating him and forcing him to surrender.
He also led the hussar general Du Mao, the strong crossbow general Chen Jun and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle.
Liu Yong recruited Zhou Jian and gathered more than 100,000 people to rescue Guangle.
Wu Han sent Qingqi to fight with him, but was unfavorable. He fell from his horse and injured his knee. When he returned to camp, Zhou Jian led his troops into the city.
The generals said to Wu Han: The enemy is in front, but the Duke is lying down due to his wounds, and everyone is afraid. Wu Hannai became angry, changed his color, wrapped up his knee wound, and rose up, killing cattle and feasting on the soldiers. He ordered the army to say: Although there are many thieves, they are just a group of robbers. When they win, they will not give in, and when they lose, they will not save each other. They are not loyal and willing to die for righteousness.
Today is a good opportunity to make meritorious deeds and become a lord, please give me more encouragement. The sergeant was enraged and his morale doubled.
Early in the morning, Zhou Jian and Su Mao sent troops to surround Wu Han.
Wu Han selected four elite soldiers, including Huangtou Wu He and others, as well as more than 3,000 Wuhuan cavalry, and advanced together with great noise.
Zhou Jianjun was defeated and ran back to the city.
Wu Han pursued them with a long drive, fought for the gate and entered with all their strength, and greatly defeated Jian and Mao's army. Su Mao and Zhou Jian broke through and left.
Wu Han left Du Mao, Chen Jun and others to guard Guangle, and led his own troops to help Gai Yan encircle Liu Yong in Suiyang.
After Liu Yong's death, both cities surrendered.
In the third year, he led Chen Jun and former general Wang Liang to defeat the bandits from the five schools in Linping, chased them to Jishan in Dongjun, and defeated the bandit army.
Then he attacked the Qinghe River and five miles north of the plain and defeated the bandits.
At that time, the five surnames in Li County jointly expelled the warden and occupied the county seat.
The generals were vying to attack, but Wu Han refused to listen and said: "Whoever caused Ge to rebel is the fault of the guard."
summary:
In subsequent campaigns, Wu Han defeated the Tanxiang bandits, earning the title Marquis of Guangping. He conquered multiple cities in Nanyang County and defeated Qin Feng. He fought alongside Geng Yan and Gai Yan against Qingdu, forcing his surrender. During the siege of Guangle, Wu Han was wounded but rallied his troops, defeating Zhou Jian and Su Mao's forces. He later helped besiege Liu Yong in Suiyang, and after Liu Yong's death, both cities surrendered. Wu Han continued defeating bandits across multiple regions, including Linping, Dongjun, Qinghe, and Pingyuan. He pacified Li County by diplomatic means, convincing the five surnames to surrender without battle.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
敢轻冒进兵者斩。 乃移檄告郡，使收守长，而使人谢城中。
五姓大喜，即相率归降。
诸将乃服，曰： 不战而下城，非众所及也。
冬，汉率建威大将军耿弇、汉忠将军王常等，击富平、获索二贼于平原。
明年春，贼率五万余人夜攻汉营，军中惊乱，汉坚卧不动，有顷乃定。
即夜发精兵出营突击，大破其众。
因追讨余党，遂至无盐，进击勃海，皆平之。
东方悉定，振旅还京师。
会隗嚣畔，夏，复遣汉西屯长安。
八年，从东驾上陇，遂围隗嚣于西城。
帝敕汉曰： 诸郡甲卒但坐费粮食，若有逃亡，则沮败众心，宜悉罢之。 汉等贪并力攻嚣，遂不能遣，粮食日少，吏士疲役，逃亡者多，及公孙述救至，汉遂退败。
十一年春，率征南大将军岑彭等伐公孙述。
及彭破荆门，长驱入江关，汉留夷陵，装露桡船，将南阳兵及弛刑募士三万人溯江而上。
会岑彭为刺客所杀，汉并将其军。
十二年春，与公孙述将魏党、公孙永战于鱼涪津，大破之，遂围武阳。
述遣子婿史兴将五千人救之。
汉迎击兴，尽殄其众，因入犍为界。
诸县皆城守。
汉乃进军攻广都，拔之。
遣轻骑烧成都市桥，武阳以东诸小城皆降。
帝戒汉曰： 成都十余万众，不可轻也。
但坚据广都，待其来攻，勿与争锋。
若不敢来，公转营迫之，须其力废，乃可击也。 汉乘利，遂自将步骑二万余人进逼成都，去城十余里，阻江北为营，作浮桥，使副将武威将军刘尚将万余人屯于江南，相去二十余里。
帝闻大惊，让汉曰： 比敕公千条万端，何意临事勃乱！
translation: 
Anyone who dares to risk rashly and enter the army should be killed. Then he sent a notice to the county and asked them to arrest the chief guard and make people express their gratitude to the city.
The five surnames were overjoyed and led their people to surrender one after another.
The generals were convinced and said: "It is not possible for others to surrender the whole city without fighting."
In the winter, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan, Hanzhong General Wang Chang and others to attack Fuping and capture two thieves in the plain.
In the spring of the fourth year, the thieves led more than 50,000 people to attack the Han camp at night. The army was in panic, but Wu Han stood firm. It took a while for the army to calm down.
Then he sent elite soldiers out of the camp at night to attack and defeated his tribe.
Therefore, they further attacked the remnants of the party, entered Wuyan County, and attacked Bohai, but they were all put down.
He also attacked Dong Xian and besieged Qucheng. In the spring of the fifth year, Qu City was captured. Kill Dong Xian. Dongfang was all pacified, and the troops were reorganized and returned to the capital.
Coincidentally, Wei Xiao rebelled, and Xia sent Wu Han to the west to garrison Chang'an.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he followed Guangwu to Longlong and besieged Weixiao in Xicheng.
The emperor ordered Wu Han: "The soldiers in each county are wasting food. If they flee, they will be depressed and demoralized, so they should all be dismissed." Wu Han and others were greedy to use these people to attack Wei Xiao together, so they refused to send them away. As a result, the food supply was gradually reduced, the officials and soldiers were tired of hard work, and more people fled. When Gongsun Shu's troops arrived to rescue Wei Xiao, Wu Han was defeated.
In the spring of the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he led the southern general Cen Peng and others to attack Gongsun Shu.
When Cen Peng broke through Jingmen and drove into Jiangguan, Wu Han stayed in Yiling, built short ships, and carried 30,000 Nanyang soldiers and recruited prisoners who had been released from shackles up the river.
When Cen Peng was killed by an assassin, Wu Han also led his army.
In the spring of the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, he fought with Gongsun Shu's generals Wei Dang and Gongsun Yong in Yufujin and defeated his army, so he besieged Wuyang.
Gongsun Shu sent his son-in-law Shi Xing to lead five thousand people to rescue him.
Wu Han attacked Shi Xing and wiped out all his troops, thus entering the territory of Qianwei.
All counties guarded the city.
Wu Han then marched to Guangdu and captured it.
Qingqi was sent to burn the Chengdu city bridge, and all the small towns east of Wuyang surrendered.
Guangwu warned Wu Han: Chengdu has more than 100,000 troops and should not be underestimated.
Just hold Guangdu firmly and don't fight with them when they come to attack.
If they dare not attack, the public camp forces them to fight, and they must wait until they are exhausted before they can attack. Taking advantage of the victory, Wu Han advanced to Chengdu with more than 20,000 troops on foot and cavalry. He was more than ten miles away from the city. He established a camp at the dangerous point in the north of the Yangtze River and built a pontoon bridge. He sent his deputy general Wuwei General Liu Shang to lead more than 10,000 men to garrison in the south of the Yangtze River. The two camps were more than 20 miles apart.
The emperor was shocked when he heard the news and blamed Wu Han: "I have always given many orders to you, why did things go wrong again?"
summary:
When Wei Xiao rebelled, Wu Han garrisoned Chang'an. In the eighth year of Jianwu, he disobeyed Guangwu's order to dismiss troops, leading to defeat when Gongsun Shu's forces arrived. In the eleventh year, Wu Han led forces against Gongsun Shu. After Cen Peng's assassination, Wu Han took command. Despite Guangwu's warnings, Wu Han advanced recklessly toward Chengdu, establishing two camps separated by twenty miles. When Gongsun Shu's forces attacked, Wu Han was defeated and surrounded. He secretly joined forces with Liu Shang in Jiangnan, defeated the Shu army, killing Xie Feng and Yuan Ji. After eight consecutive victories, Wu Han's forces killed Gongsun Shu in battle, and Chengdu surrendered.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
故能常任职，以功名终。
及在朝廷，斤斤谨质，形于体貌。
汉尝出征，妻子在后买田业。
汉还，让之曰： 军师在外，吏士不足，何多买田宅乎！ 遂尽以分与昆弟外家。
二十年，汉病笃。
车驾亲临，问所欲言。
对曰： 臣愚无所知识，惟愿陛下慎无亦攵而已。 及薨，有诏悼愍，赐谥曰忠侯。
发北军五校、轻车、介士送葬，如大将军霍光故事。
子哀侯成嗣，为奴所杀。
二十八年，分汉封为三国：成子旦为灈阳侯，以奉汉嗣；旦弟盱为筑阳侯；成弟国为新蔡侯。
旦卒，无子，国除。
建初八年，徙封盱为平春侯，以奉汉后。
盱卒，子胜嗣。
初，汉兄尉为将军，从征战死，封尉子彤为安阳侯。
帝以汉功大，复封弟翕为褒亲侯。
吴氏侯者凡五国。
初，渔阳都尉严宣与汉俱会光武于广阿，光武以为偏将军，封建信侯。
论曰：吴汉自建武世，常居上公之位，终始倚爱之亲，谅由质简而强力也。
子曰 刚毅木讷近仁 ，斯岂汉之方乎！
昔陈平智有余以见疑，周勃资朴忠而见信。
夫仁义不足以相怀，则智者以有余为疑，而朴者以不足取信矣。
盖延字巨卿，渔阳要阳人也。
身长八尺，弯弓三百斤。
边俗尚勇力，而延以气闻，历郡列掾、州从事，所在职办。
彭宠为太守，召延署营尉，行护军。
及王郎起，延与吴汉同谋归光武。
延至广阿，拜偏将军，号建功侯，从平河北。
光武即位，以延为虎牙将军。
建武二年，更封安平侯。
translation: 
Therefore, he can hold important positions permanently and spend his whole life with fame.
When he returns to the court, he carefully observes his physical appearance.
After Wu Han went to war, his wife purchased some land at home.
After Wu Han returned, he ordered his wife to say: "The military advisor is away and the officials and soldiers are not enough to provide for themselves, so why buy more land and houses?" So they distributed all the money to Kun's brothers and his mother-in-law.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, Wu Han was critically ill.
Guangwu came to visit in person and asked Wu Han if he had anything to say.
Wu Han said: "I am ignorant. I only hope that your majesty will be careful not to pardon criminals easily." After his death, an imperial edict was issued to commiserate with him and he was given the posthumous title of Zhonghou.
The five schools of the Northern Army, military vehicles, and soldiers were sent to his funeral, just like General Huo Guang's previous funeral.
Zi Aihou Wu became the heir, but was killed by his slaves.
In the 28th year of Jianwu's reign, the fiefdoms of Wu and Han were divided into three kingdoms. Wu Cheng's son Wu Dan was named Quyanghou to worship Wu and Han; Wu Dan's brother Wu Xu was named Zhuyanghou; Wu Cheng's brother Wu Guo was named Xincaihou.
When Wu Dan died, the feudal state was removed because he had no children.
In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wu Xu was granted the title of Marquis of Pingchun in order to honor the descendants of Wu and Han.
Wu Xu died, and his son Wu Sheng succeeded to the throne.
At first, Wu Wei, brother of Wu Han, was a general. He died in the expedition, and Wu Tong, Wu Wei's son, was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang.
The emperor thought that Wu Han had made great contributions and made Wu Xi, Wu Han's younger brother, a prince of praise.
Wu's family has five nobles.
At first, Yan Xuan, the captain of Yuyang, and Wu Handu met with Guangwu in Guang'a. Guangwu made Yan Xuan a partial general and a feudal lord of faith.
The historian commented: Since the founding of Wu Han Dynasty, officials have always occupied the position of superior, and they have always been relied on by Guangwu. It must be because of his loyalty, simplicity and strength.
Confucius said: Fortitude, simplicity, slowness and few words are closer to benevolence. Isn’t this a metaphor from Wu Han?
In the past, Chen Ping was suspicious because of his resourcefulness, and Zhou Bo was loyal and simple, so he was trustworthy.
If benevolence and righteousness are not enough to depend on each other, then the wise will be suspicious because of their many schemes, and the simple will be trusted because of their lack of wisdom.
Gai Yan, named Juqing, was from Yaoyang County, Yuyang County.
He is eight feet long and can draw a bow of three hundred kilograms.
Frontier customs valued prowess, and Guyan was known for his courage. He also works for counties, deputies and states, and can perform his duties wherever he goes.
Peng Chong was appointed as the prefect, and he called Gai Yan to serve as a battalion lieutenant to protect the army.
When Wang Lang rose to prominence, Gai Yan and Wu Han managed to return to Guangwu.
Gai Yan went to Guang'a, where he was worshiped as a partial general and given the title of Jiangonghou. He followed him to pacify Hebei.
Guangwu ascended the throne and appointed Gai Yan as General Huya.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
summary:
Wu Han was known for his strong character and composure during crises. He distributed his wealth to relatives rather than acquiring land. On his deathbed in the twentieth year of Jianwu, he advised Guangwu not to pardon criminals easily. He was given the posthumous title Zhonghou.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
十三年，增封定食万户。
十五年，薨于位。
子扶嗣。
扶卒，子侧嗣。
永平十三年，坐与舅王平谋反，伏诛，国除。
永初七年，邓太后绍封延曾孙恢为芦亭侯。
恢卒，子遂嗣。
陈俊字子昭，西阳西鄂人也。
少为郡吏，更始立，以宗室刘嘉为太常将军，俊为长史。
光武徇河北，嘉遣书荐俊，光武以为安集掾。
从击铜马于清阳，进至蒲阳，拜强弩将军。
与五校战于安次，俊下马，手接短兵，所向必破，追奔二十余里，斩其渠帅而还。
光武望而叹曰： 战将尽如是，岂有忧哉！ 五校引退入渔阳，所过虏掠。
俊言于光武曰： 宜令轻骑出贼前，使百姓各自坚壁，以绝其食，可不战而殄也。 光武然之，遣俊将轻骑驰出贼前。
视人保壁坚完者，敕令固守；放散在野者，因掠取之。
贼至无所得，遂散败。
及军还，光武谓俊曰： 困此虏者，将军策也。 及即位，封俊为列侯。
建武二年春，攻匡贼，下四县，更封新处侯。
引击顿丘，降三城。
其秋，大司马吴汉承制拜俊为强弩大将军，别击金门、白马贼于河内，皆破之。
四年，转徇汝阳及项，又拔南武阳。
是时，太山豪杰多拥众与张步连兵，吴汉言于帝曰： 非陈俊莫能定此郡。 于是拜俊太山太守，行大将军事。
张步闻之，遣其将击俊，战于嬴下，俊大破之，追至济南，收得印绶九十余，稍攻下诸县，遂定太山。
五年，与建威大将军耿弇共破张步。
事在《弇传》。
时，琅邪未平，乃徙俊为琅邪太守，领将军如故。
齐地素闻俊名，入界，盗贼皆解散。
俊将兵击董宪于赣榆，进破朐贼孙阳，平之。
八年，张步畔，还琅邪，俊追讨，斩之。
帝美其功，诏俊得专征青、徐。
俊抚贫弱，表有义，检制军吏，不得与郡县相干，百姓歌之。
数上书自请，愿奋击陇、蜀。
诏报曰： 东州新平，大将军之功也。
负海猾夏，盗贼之处，国家以为重忧，且勉镇抚之。
十三年，增邑，定封祝阿侯。
明年，征奉朝请。
二十三年卒。
子浮嗣，徙封薪春侯。
浮卒，子专诸嗣。
专诸卒，子笃嗣。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, 10,000 households were added to the fiefdom.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he died of illness.
Zi Gai supports the heir.
Help him die, and he will be the next heir.
In the 13th year of Yongping, he was killed because of rebellion with his uncle Wang Ping, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Empress Dowager Deng succeeded Gai Hui, Gai Yan's great-grandson, as Marquis of Luting.
After Gai Hui died, Zi Gai succeeded to the throne.
Chen Jun, whose courtesy name was Zizhao, was from Xi'e, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he was a county official. Gengshi was established, with clan member Liu Jia as Taichang General and Chen Jun as Changshi.
Guangwu attacked Hebei, Liu Jia recommended Chen Jun in letters, and Guangwu appointed Chen Jun as his governor.
Follow Guangwu to attack the bronze horse in Qingyang, enter Puyang, and worship as General Qiannu.
During the battle with the Five Schools in Anci, Chen Jun dismounted his horse and took up short soldiers. The thieves would be defeated wherever they went. He chased for more than 20 miles, killed his commander and returned.
Guangwu looked at it and sighed: If all the generals were like him, there would be nothing to worry about! The five schools retreated into Yuyang, looting and plundering wherever they went.
Chen Jun said to Guangwu: "You should order the Qingqi to appear in front of the rebel army, so that the people can hold on to the barriers to cut off the rebel army's food, and then the enemy can be annihilated without a fight." Guangwu thought so and sent Chen Jun to lead Qingqi in front of the thieves.
When he saw that the people were guarding strong and intact fortifications, he ordered them to hold on; if they were scattered, he plundered them.
In this way, the bandits will be defeated when they have nothing to gain.
When he returned to the army, Guangwu said to Chen Jun: "These thieves are troubled."
This is the general's strategy. Guangwu ascended the throne and made Chen Jun a marquis. In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, he attacked the Kuang bandits, captured four counties, and granted the new title of Marquis.
They led an attack on Dunqiu and the three cities surrendered.
In the autumn of that year, the Grand Sima Wu Han Cheng ordered Chen Jun to be appointed as the General of Strong Crossbows. He also attacked Kinmen and the White Horse Bandits in Hanoi, and defeated them both.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he turned to attack Ruyang and Xiang, and then attacked Nanwuyang.
At this time, most of Taishan's heroes had troops and Zhang Bu's company. Wu Han said to Guangwu: No one but Chen Jun can pacify this county. So he worshiped Chen Jun as the prefect of Taishan and acted as the military general.
Zhang Bu heard about it and sent his generals to attack Chen Jun. They fought against Yingxia. Chen Jun defeated his army and chased him to Jinan. He collected more than 90 seals and ribbons, and then conquered various counties and pacified Mount Taishan.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he and Jianwei General Geng Yan defeated Zhang Bu.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Geng Yan".
At this time, Langfu was not pacified, so Chen Jun was moved to be the prefect of Langfu, and his military leadership remained the same as in the past.
Qi Di has always heard of Chen Jun's reputation. As soon as Chen Jun arrived, the thieves dispersed.
Chen Jun led his army to attack Dong Xian in Ganyu County. He marched and defeated the Qu thief Sun Yang, and Langji was pacified.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Zhang Bu rebelled and returned to Langyi. Chen Jun sent troops to pursue Zhang Bu and kill him.
The emperor praised his achievements and ordered Chen Jun to conquer Qing and Xuzhou specifically.
Chen Jun comforted the poor, commended the righteous, restrained the military officials from interfering in the affairs of counties and counties, and the people praised him.
He wrote several times to invite himself, willing to fight against Kai Xiao and Gongsun Shu.
The edict replied: Dongzhou has just been pacified, and it is thanks to the great general.
The coastal waters of Dongzhou are disturbed and are a hiding place for thieves. The imperial court is concerned about this place. Please try your best to pacify it for the time being.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the city was increased and it was named Zhu'ahou.
Next year, he will be summoned back to Beijing to serve at the court's invitation.
Jianwu died in the 23rd year of his reign.
His son Chen Fu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Qichun.
After Fu died, his son Chen Zhuanzhu succeeded him.
Zhuan Zhu died, and his son Chen Du succeeded to the throne.
summary:
The text also records the careers of Gai Yan, Chen Jun, and Zang Gong, who served under Guangwu with distinction in various campaigns, including against Liu Yong, Dong Xian, and Gongsun Shu. The historian's commentary notes that Guangwu's defensive strategy was cautious and far-reaching, rejecting proposals for aggressive campaigns against the Xiongnu in favor of allowing the people to recuperate.

