Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴汉字子颜，南阳宛人也。
家贫，给事县为亭长。
王莽末，以宾客犯法，乃亡命至渔阳，资用乏，以贩马自业，往来燕、蓟间，所至皆交结豪杰。
更始立，使使者韩鸿徇河北。
或谓鸿曰： 吴子颜，奇士也，可与计事。 鸿召见汉，其悦之，遂承制拜为安乐令。
会王郎起，北州扰惑。
汉素闻光武长者，独欲归心。
乃说太守彭宠曰： 渔阳、上谷突骑，天下所闻也。
君何不合二郡精锐，附刘公击邯郸，此一时之功也。 宠以为然，而官属皆欲附王郎，宠不能夺。
汉乃辞出，止外亭，念所以谲众，未知所出。
望见道中有一人似儒生者，汉使人召之，为具食，问以所闻。
生因言刘公所过，为郡县所归；邯郸举尊号者，实非刘氏。
汉大喜，即诈为光武书，移檄渔阳，使生赍以诣宠，令县以所闻说之，汉复随后入。
宠甚然之。
于是遣汉将兵与上谷诸将并军而南，所至击斩王郎将帅。
及光武于广阿，拜汉为偏将军。
既拔邯郸，赐号建策侯。
汉为人质厚少文，造次不能以辞自达。
邓禹及诸将我知之。数相荐举，及得召见，遂见亲信，赏居门下。
光武将发幽州兵，夜召邓禹，问可使行者。
禹曰： 间数与吴汉言，其人勇鸷有智谋，诸将鲜能及者。 即拜汉大将军，持节北发十郡突骑。
更始幽州牧苗曾闻之，阴勒兵，敕诸郡不肯应调。
汉乃将二十骑先驰至无终。
曾以汉无备，出迎于路，汉即捴兵骑，收曾斩之，而夺其军。
北州震骇，城邑莫不望风弭从。
遂悉发其兵，引而南，与光武会清阳。
诸将望见汉还，士马甚盛，皆曰： 是宁肯分兵与人邪？ 及汉至莫府，上兵簿，诸将人人多请之。
光武曰： 属者恐不与人，今所请又何多也？ 诸将皆惭。
初，更始遣尚书令谢躬率六将军攻王郎，不能下。
translation: 
Wu Hanzi Ziyan was born in Wan County, Nanyang County.
His family was poor and he worked as the county pavilion chief.
In Wang Mang's last years, because his guests broke the law, he took off his name and fled to Yuyang. Due to lack of funds, he made a living by selling horses. He traveled between Yan and Ji, and made friends with heroes wherever he went.
Gengshi ascended the throne and sent envoy Han Hong to Hebei to recruit surrender.
Someone said to Han Hong, "Wu Ziyan is a wonderful man. You can discuss matters with him." Han Hong summoned Wu Han and was very happy. He appointed him as the magistrate of Anle County according to the emperor's order.
Coinciding with the rise of Wang Lang, Beizhou was disturbed and confused.
Wu Han had always heard that Guangwu was an elder, and he wanted to return to Guangwu.
He told the prefect Peng Chong: The cavalry in Yuyang and Shanggu that attack the enemy are famous all over the world.
Why don't you gather the elites from the two counties and join Liu Gong to attack Handan? This is a rare achievement. Peng Chong thought it was right, but the officials below all wanted to join Wang Lang, and Peng Chong could not take away his ambition.
Wu Han then resigned and stayed in the outer pavilion, trying to blackmail everyone, but he still couldn't figure out a way.
Seeing a man who looked like a Confucian scholar on the road, Wu Han sent people to summon him, provided him with food, and asked him what he had heard.
Therefore, Confucian scholars said that wherever Liu Gong went, all counties and counties were devoted to him; the man in Handan who arrogantly claimed the title was indeed not a member of the Liu family.
Wu Han was overjoyed, so he pretended to be a letter written by Guangwu himself, and sent it to Yuyang. He sent a Confucian scholar to Peng Chong and asked him to convince Peng Chong of what he had heard. Wu Han also followed him to Yuyang.
Peng Chong was very satisfied.
So Wu Han was sent to lead his troops and the generals from Shanggu to the south, killing General Wang Lang wherever they went.
After chasing Guangwu in Guang'a, he worshiped Wu Han as a partial general.
After conquering Handan, he was given the title of Marquis Jiance.
Wu Han was a man of loyal nature but lacked literary talent and could not express his thoughts in words in a hurry.
Deng Yu and other generals knew him well and recommended him many times. When he was summoned, Guangwu trusted him and often lived under his door.
General Guang sent troops to Youzhou and summoned Deng Yu at night to ask who could take on the task.
Deng Yu said: I have talked with Wu Han many times. He is brave and resourceful. Few generals can match him. That is to say, Wu Han was appointed as the general and ordered to carry the talisman to the north to attack the enemy's cavalry from ten counties.
Gengshi Youzhou Mu Miao once heard that he secretly mobilized troops and ordered the counties not to send troops accordingly.
Wu Han led twenty horses and galloped to the end.
Miao Zeng thought that Wu Han was unprepared and came out to meet him on the road. Wu Han immediately commanded his troops and cavalry to capture Miao Zeng and kill him, seizing his troops and horses.
Beizhou was shaken and frightened, and all the cities and towns obeyed.
So he mobilized all his troops and led them southward to join forces with Guangwu at Qingyang.
When the generals saw Wu Han coming back and his troops were very strong, they all said: "Is he willing to divide his troops with others?" When Wu Han arrived at the place where the general was conducting business, he presented the name list of the sergeants, and the generals invited everyone to accept their troops.
Guangwu said: "I'm afraid he was unwilling to accept requests from others before. Why are there so many requests now?" All the generals felt ashamed.
At first, Gengshi sent Shangshu Ling Xie Gong and six generals to attack Wanglang, but they could not capture it.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
会光武至，共定邯郸，而躬裨将虏掠不相承禀，光武深忌之。
虽俱在邯郸，遂分城而处，然每有以慰安之。
躬勤于职事，光武常称曰 谢尚书真吏也 ，故不自疑。
躬既而率其兵数万，还屯于邺。
时光武南击青犊，谓躬曰： 我追贼于射犬，必破之。
尤来在山阳者，势必当惊走。
若以君威力，击此散虏，必成禽也。 躬曰： 善。 及青犊破，而尤来果北走隆虑山，躬乃留大将军刘庆、魏郡太守陈康守邺，自率诸将军击之。
穷寇死战，其锋不可当，躬遂大败，死者数千人。
光武因躬在外，乃使汉与岑彭袭其城。
汉先令辩士说陈康曰： 盖闻上智不处危以侥幸，中智能因危以为功，下愚安于危以自亡。
危亡之至，在人所由，不可不察。
今京师败乱，四方云扰，公所闻也。
萧王兵强士附，河北归命，公所见也。
谢躬内背萧王，外失众心，公所知也。
公今据孤危之城，待灭亡之祸，义无所立，节无所成。不若开门内军，转祸为祸，免下愚之败，收中智之功，此计之至者也。 康然之。
于是康收刘庆及躬妻子，开门内汉等。
及躬从隆虑归邺，不知康已反之，乃与数百骑轻入城。
汉伏兵收之，手击杀躬，其众悉降。
躬字子张，南阳人。
初，其妻知光武不平之，常戒躬曰： 君与刘公积不相能，而信其虚谈，不为人备，终受制矣。 躬不纳，故及于难。
光武北击群贼，汉常将突骑五千为军锋，数先登陷陈。
及河北平，汉与诸将奉图书，上尊号。
光武即位，拜为大司马，更封舞阳侯。
translation: 
Just as Guangwu arrived, they jointly pacified Handan, but Xie Gongbi looted and looted without asking for instructions to report, which Guangwu hated deeply.
Although they are both in Handan, they live in separate cities, but they often comfort him.
Xie Gong was diligent in his duties, and Guangwu often praised him and said: "Xie Shangshu is a real official." So I don’t doubt myself.
Xie Gong then led tens of thousands of his troops and returned to Ye.
At that time, Guang Wunan attacked Qingdu and said to Xie Gong: I will chase the thieves and shoot the dogs, and I will definitely defeat the thieves.
Anyone who comes to Shanyang will definitely be frightened away.
If you use your power to attack these scattered captives, you will definitely win. Xie Gong said: OK. When Qingdu was defeated, You Lai walked north to Longlu Mountain. After thanking him, he left the general Liu Qing and the governor of Wei County Chen Kang to guard Ye, while he led the generals to attack Qingdu.
The poor bandits fought hard, but their sharpness was unstoppable. Xie Gong was defeated and thousands of people died.
Since Guangwu was out of town, he sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack the city.
The Wu Han Dynasty sent debaters in advance to persuade Chen Kang: I heard that a wise person does not seek luck in danger, a moderately wise person can take advantage of danger as a merit, and a foolish person lives in danger as a means of self-destruction.
The arrival of danger is caused by human beings and cannot be ignored.
Now the capital is in chaos, and there are disturbances in all directions, and you know that.
King Xiao's soldiers were strong, and Hebei was under his command. This was seen by the public.
It is known to everyone that Xie Gong betrayed King Xiao internally and lost the hearts of the people externally.
The Duke is now guarding the isolated city, waiting for the disaster of destruction. There is no loyalty and integrity, and no integrity. It is better to open the door to welcome the Han soldiers, turn disaster into blessing, avoid the defeat of foolishness, and gain the merit of wisdom. This is the best plan!
Chen Kang thought so. So Chen Kang took Liu Qing and Xie Gong's wife and opened the door to welcome the Han soldiers into the city.
When Xie Gong returned to Ye from Longlu, he didn't know that Chen Kang had rebelled, so he entered the city lightly with hundreds of cavalry.
Han ambushes captured him and killed Xie Gong with his hands. All his troops surrendered.
Xie Gong, courtesy name Zizhang, was from Nanyang County.
At first, his wife knew that Guangwu could not live in harmony with him, so she often warned Xie Gong and said: You and Liu Gong are not harmonious together, but you believe his lies and make no preparations, and you will eventually be controlled by him. Xie Gong refused to accept it, so he suffered.
When Guangwu attacked groups of thieves in the north, Wu Han often led five thousand assault cavalry as the vanguard and attacked the bandits several times.
When Hebei was pacified, Wu Han and his generals held maps and books and paid tribute to the emperor.
Guangwu ascended the throne, worshiped Wu Han as Grand Sima, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
建武二年春，汉率大司空王梁，建义大将军朱祐，大将军杜茂，执金吾贾复，扬化将军坚镡，偏将军王霸，骑都尉刘隆、马武、阴识，共击檀乡贼于邺东漳水上，大破之。降者十余万人。
帝使使者玺书定封汉为广平侯，食广平、斥漳、曲周、广年，凡四县。
复率诸将击邺西山贼黎伯卿等，及河内脩武，悉破诸屯聚。
车驾亲幸抚劳。
复遣汉进兵南阳，击宛、涅阳、郦、穰、新野诸城、皆下之。
引兵南，与秦丰战黄邮水上，破之。
又与偏将军冯异击昌城五楼贼张文等，又攻铜马、五幡于新安，皆破之。
明年春，率建威大将军耿弇、虎牙大将军盖延，击青犊于轵西，大破降之。
又率骠骑大将军杜茂、强弩将军陈俊等，围苏茂于广乐。
刘永将周建别招聚收集得十余万人，救广乐。
汉将轻骑迎与之战，不利，堕马伤膝，还营，建等遂连兵入城。
诸将谓汉曰： 大敌在前而公伤卧，众心惧矣。 汉乃勃然裹创而起，椎牛飨士，令军中曰： 贼众虽多，皆劫掠群盗， 胜不相让，败不相救 ，非有仗节死义者也。
今日封侯之秋，诸君勉之！ 于是军士激怒，人倍其气。
旦日，建、茂出兵围汉。
汉选四部精兵黄头吴河等，及乌桓突骑三千余人，齐鼓而进。
建军大溃，反还奔城。
汉长驱追击，争门并入，大破之，茂、建突走。
汉留杜茂、陈俊等守广乐，自将兵助盖延围刘永于睢阳。
永既死，二城皆降。
明年，又率陈俊及前将军王梁，击破五校贼于临平，追至东郡箕山，大破之。
北击清河长直及平原五里贼，皆平之。
时，鬲县五姓共逐守长，据城而反。
诸将争欲攻之，汉不听，曰： 使鬲反者，皆守长罪也。
translation: 
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Wu Han led the general Wang Liang, the general Zhu You of Jianyi, the general Du Mao, the Jin Wu Jiafu, the Yanghua general Jian Tan, the partial general Wang Ba, the cavalry captain Liu Long, Ma Wu, and Yinshi. They attacked the Tanxiang bandits on the Zhang River in the east of Ye. They defeated the bandits and more than 100,000 people surrendered.
The emperor sent envoys to seal Wu Han as the Marquis of Guangping, with four counties in total: Guangping, Kuizhang, Quzhou and Guangnian.
Wu Han again led his generals to attack the bandits Li Boxing and others in the western mountains of Ye, and pursued them to Hanoi Wu, where they defeated all the bandits' gatherings.
Guangwu personally came to express his condolences.
Wu Han was sent back to march into Nanyang County, attack Wan, Nie, Yang, Li, Rang and Xinye cities, and captured them all.
He led his troops to the south, fought with Qin Feng on the Huangyou River, and defeated Qin Feng.
He and the partial general Feng Yi attacked Zhang Wen and others on the fifth floor of Changcheng. They also attacked Bronze Horse and Five Flags in Xin'an, and defeated them all.
In the spring of the next year, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan and Huya General Gai Yan to attack Qingdu in the west of Zhejiang, defeating him and forcing him to surrender.
He also led the hussar general Du Mao, the strong crossbow general Chen Jun and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle.
Liu Yong recruited Zhou Jian and gathered more than 100,000 people to rescue Guangle.
Wu Han sent Qingqi to fight with him, but was unfavorable. He fell from his horse and injured his knee. When he returned to camp, Zhou Jian led his troops into the city.
The generals said to Wu Han: The enemy is in front, but the Duke is lying down due to his wounds, and everyone is afraid. Wu Hannai became angry, changed his color, wrapped up his knee wound, and rose up, killing cattle and feasting on the soldiers. He ordered the army to say: Although there are many thieves, they are just a group of robbers. When they win, they will not give in, and when they lose, they will not save each other. They are not loyal and willing to die for righteousness.
Today is a good opportunity to make meritorious deeds and become a lord, please give me more encouragement. The sergeant was enraged and his morale doubled.
Early in the morning, Zhou Jian and Su Mao sent troops to surround Wu Han.
Wu Han selected four elite soldiers, including Huangtou Wu He and others, as well as more than 3,000 Wuhuan cavalry, and advanced together with great noise.
Zhou Jianjun was defeated and ran back to the city.
Wu Han pursued them with a long drive, fought for the gate and entered with all their strength, and greatly defeated Jian and Mao's army. Su Mao and Zhou Jian broke through and left.
Wu Han left Du Mao, Chen Jun and others to guard Guangle, and led his own troops to help Gai Yan encircle Liu Yong in Suiyang.
After Liu Yong's death, both cities surrendered.
In the third year, he led Chen Jun and former general Wang Liang to defeat the bandits from the five schools in Linping, chased them to Jishan in Dongjun, and defeated the bandit army.
Then he attacked the Qinghe River and five miles north of the plain and defeated the bandits.
At that time, the five surnames in Li County jointly expelled the warden and occupied the county seat.
The generals were vying to attack, but Wu Han refused to listen and said: "Whoever caused Ge to rebel is the fault of the guard."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
敢轻冒进兵者斩。 乃移檄告郡，使收守长，而使人谢城中。
五姓大喜，即相率归降。
诸将乃服，曰： 不战而下城，非众所及也。
冬，汉率建威大将军耿弇、汉忠将军王常等，击富平、获索二贼于平原。
明年春，贼率五万余人夜攻汉营，军中惊乱，汉坚卧不动，有顷乃定。
即夜发精兵出营突击，大破其众。
因追讨余党，遂至无盐，进击勃海，皆平之。
东方悉定，振旅还京师。
会隗嚣畔，夏，复遣汉西屯长安。
八年，从东驾上陇，遂围隗嚣于西城。
帝敕汉曰： 诸郡甲卒但坐费粮食，若有逃亡，则沮败众心，宜悉罢之。 汉等贪并力攻嚣，遂不能遣，粮食日少，吏士疲役，逃亡者多，及公孙述救至，汉遂退败。
十一年春，率征南大将军岑彭等伐公孙述。
及彭破荆门，长驱入江关，汉留夷陵，装露桡船，将南阳兵及弛刑募士三万人溯江而上。
会岑彭为刺客所杀，汉并将其军。
十二年春，与公孙述将魏党、公孙永战于鱼涪津，大破之，遂围武阳。
述遣子婿史兴将五千人救之。
汉迎击兴，尽殄其众，因入犍为界。
诸县皆城守。
汉乃进军攻广都，拔之。
遣轻骑烧成都市桥，武阳以东诸小城皆降。
帝戒汉曰： 成都十余万众，不可轻也。
但坚据广都，待其来攻，勿与争锋。
若不敢来，公转营迫之，须其力废，乃可击也。 汉乘利，遂自将步骑二万余人进逼成都，去城十余里，阻江北为营，作浮桥，使副将武威将军刘尚将万余人屯于江南，相去二十余里。
帝闻大惊，让汉曰： 比敕公千条万端，何意临事勃乱！
translation: 
Anyone who dares to risk rashly and enter the army should be killed. Then he sent a notice to the county and asked them to arrest the chief guard and make people express their gratitude to the city.
The five surnames were overjoyed and led their people to surrender one after another.
The generals were convinced and said: "It is not possible for others to surrender the whole city without fighting."
In the winter, Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan, Hanzhong General Wang Chang and others to attack Fuping and capture two thieves in the plain.
In the spring of the fourth year, the thieves led more than 50,000 people to attack the Han camp at night. The army was in panic, but Wu Han stood firm. It took a while for the army to calm down.
Then he sent elite soldiers out of the camp at night to attack and defeated his tribe.
Therefore, they further attacked the remnants of the party, entered Wuyan County, and attacked Bohai, but they were all put down.
He also attacked Dong Xian and besieged Qucheng. In the spring of the fifth year, Qu City was captured. Kill Dong Xian. Dongfang was all pacified, and the troops were reorganized and returned to the capital.
Coincidentally, Wei Xiao rebelled, and Xia sent Wu Han to the west to garrison Chang'an.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he followed Guangwu to Longlong and besieged Weixiao in Xicheng.
The emperor ordered Wu Han: "The soldiers in each county are wasting food. If they flee, they will be depressed and demoralized, so they should all be dismissed." Wu Han and others were greedy to use these people to attack Wei Xiao together, so they refused to send them away. As a result, the food supply was gradually reduced, the officials and soldiers were tired of hard work, and more people fled. When Gongsun Shu's troops arrived to rescue Wei Xiao, Wu Han was defeated.
In the spring of the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he led the southern general Cen Peng and others to attack Gongsun Shu.
When Cen Peng broke through Jingmen and drove into Jiangguan, Wu Han stayed in Yiling, built short ships, and carried 30,000 Nanyang soldiers and recruited prisoners who had been released from shackles up the river.
When Cen Peng was killed by an assassin, Wu Han also led his army.
In the spring of the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, he fought with Gongsun Shu's generals Wei Dang and Gongsun Yong in Yufujin and defeated his army, so he besieged Wuyang.
Gongsun Shu sent his son-in-law Shi Xing to lead five thousand people to rescue him.
Wu Han attacked Shi Xing and wiped out all his troops, thus entering the territory of Qianwei.
All counties guarded the city.
Wu Han then marched to Guangdu and captured it.
Qingqi was sent to burn the Chengdu city bridge, and all the small towns east of Wuyang surrendered.
Guangwu warned Wu Han: Chengdu has more than 100,000 troops and should not be underestimated.
Just hold Guangdu firmly and don't fight with them when they come to attack.
If they dare not attack, the public camp forces them to fight, and they must wait until they are exhausted before they can attack. Taking advantage of the victory, Wu Han advanced to Chengdu with more than 20,000 troops on foot and cavalry. He was more than ten miles away from the city. He established a camp at the dangerous point in the north of the Yangtze River and built a pontoon bridge. He sent his deputy general Wuwei General Liu Shang to lead more than 10,000 men to garrison in the south of the Yangtze River. The two camps were more than 20 miles apart.
The emperor was shocked when he heard the news and blamed Wu Han: "I have always given many orders to you, why did things go wrong again?"


Chunk 4: 
original: 
既轻敌深入，又与尚别营，事有缓急，不复相及。
贼若出兵缀公，以大众攻尚，尚破，公即败矣。
幸无它者，急引兵还广都。 诏书未到，述果使其将谢丰、袁吉将众十许万，分为二十余营，并出攻汉。
使别将将万余人劫刘尚，令不得相救。
汉与大战一日，兵败，走入壁，丰因围之。
汉乃召诸将厉之曰： 吾共诸君逾越险阻，转战千里，所在斩获，遂深入敌地，至其城下。
而今与刘尚二处受围，势既不接，其祸难量。
欲潜师就尚于江南，并兵御之。
若能同心一力，人自为战，大功可立；如其不然，败必无余。
成败之机，在此一举。 诸将皆曰 诺 。
于是飨士秣马，闭门三日不出，乃多树幡旗，使烟火不绝，夜衔枚引兵与刘尚合军。
丰等不觉，明日，乃分兵拒江北，自将攻江南。
汉悉兵迎战，自旦至晡，遂大破之，斩谢丰、袁吉，获甲首五千余级。
于是引还广都，留刘尚拒述，具以状上，而深自谴责。
帝报曰： 公还广都，甚得其宜，述必不敢略尚而击公也。
若先攻尚，公从广都五十里悉步骑赴之，适当值其危困，破之必矣。 自是汉与述战于广都、成都之间，八战八克，遂军于其郭中。
述自将数万人出城大战，汉使护军高午、唐邯将数万锐卒击之。
述兵败走，高午奔陈刺述，杀之。
事已见《述传》。旦日城降，斩述首传送洛阳。
明年正月，汉振旅浮江而下。
至宛，诏令过家上冢，赐谷二万斛。
十五年，复率扬武将军马成、捕虏将军马武北击匈奴，徙雁门、代郡、上谷吏人六万余口，置居庸、常山关以东。
十八年，蜀郡守将史歆反于成都，自称大司马，攻太守张穆，穆逾城走广都，歆遂移檄郡县，而宕渠杨伟、朐〈月忍〉徐容等，起兵各数千人以应之。
帝以歆昔为岑彭护军，晓习兵事，故遣汉率刘尚及太中大夫臧宫将万余人讨之。
汉入武都，乃发广汉、巴、蜀三郡兵围成都，百余日城破，诛歆等。
汉乃乘桴沿江下巴郡，杨伟、徐容等惶恐解散，汉诛其渠帅二百余人，徙其党与数百家于南郡、长沙而还。
汉性强力，每从征伐，帝未安，恒侧足而言。
诸将见战陈不利，或多惶惧，失其常度。
汉意气自若，方整厉器械，激扬士吏。
帝时遣人观大司马何为，还言方修战攻之具，乃叹曰： 吴公差强人意，隐若一敌国矣！ 每当出师，朝受诏，夕即引道，初无办严之日。
translation: 
Not only did they underestimate the enemy's penetration, but they also built another camp with Liu Shang. If things were urgent, it would be too late.
If the thief sends troops to contain you and attacks Liu Shang with a large force, and Liu Shang is defeated, the duke will also be defeated.
Fortunately, there is nothing else to make you urgently lead your troops back to Guangdu. When the edict did not arrive, Gongsun Shuguo ordered Xie Feng and Yuan Ji to lead more than 100,000 troops, divided them into more than 20 battalions, and marched out to attack Wu Han.
He sent other generals with more than 10,000 men to rob Liu Shang, making it impossible for the two places to save each other.
Wu Han fought with Shu soldiers for a day and was defeated. They entered the military camp and were surrounded by Xie Feng.
Wu Han summoned his generals and said excitedly: "I and you all overcame dangers and fought for thousands of miles. We defeated the enemy wherever we went. So we went deep into the enemy's territory and reached the gates of his city."
Now he and Liu Shang are surrounded by two places, and the situation cannot be connected, and the consequences are incalculable.
I want to secretly send troops to join Liu Shang in Jiangnan and defend the enemy with all my strength.
If we can work together and fight for ourselves, great achievements can be made; otherwise, we will definitely fail.
The chance of success or failure lies in this one move. All the generals said: OK.
So he made the soldiers and horses well fed, closed the camp gates for three days, and set up more flags and streamers to keep the fireworks going.
Xie Feng and others did not notice. The next day, they divided their troops to resist Jiangbei and led their own troops to attack Jiangnan.
Wu Han led the entire army to fight. From morning to afternoon, he defeated the Shu soldiers, killed Xie Feng and Yuan Ji, and won more than 5,000 soldiers' heads.
So he was led back to Guangdu, leaving Liu Shang to reject Gongsun Shu, write a letter to report to Guangwu, and deeply condemn himself.
Guangwu replied: It is very appropriate for you to return to Guangdu. Gongsun Shu will not dare to ignore Liu Shang and attack you.
If he attacks Liu Shang first, and you lead all the infantry and cavalry fifty miles from Guangdu to the enemy, and you happen to encounter his danger, you will definitely defeat the Shu army. From then on, Wu Han and Gongsun Shu fought between Guangdu and Chengdu, winning eight out of eight battles, and then marched to the outer city.
Gongsun Shu himself led tens of thousands of troops out of the city to fight. Wu Han sent guards Gao Wu and Tang Han to lead tens of thousands of elite soldiers to attack.
Gongsun Shu was defeated and fled. Gao Wu quickly rushed to the enemy camp to assassinate Gongsun Shu and killed him.
The next morning, Chengdu opened its doors and surrendered. Gongsun Shu was beheaded and sent to Luoyang.
In the first month of the second year, Wu Han reorganized his army and floated down the river.
When they arrived in Wancheng, they ordered Wu Han to stay at home and go to the tomb to worship his ancestors, and he was given 20,000 dendrobium grains.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he led General Ma Cheng and Capture General Ma Wu to attack the Xiongnu in the north. More than 60,000 officials and people from Yanmen, Daijun, and Shanggu were relocated to the east of Juyongguan and Changshanguan.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Shi Xin, the governor of Shu County, rebelled in Chengdu. He claimed to be Grand Sima and attacked the prefect Zhang Mu. Zhang Mu fled over the city wall and fled to Guangdu. Shi Xin moved his petition to the county. Danqu Yang Wei, Qu Yue Ren Xu Rong and others each raised thousands of troops to respond to Shi Xin.
Because Shi Xin used to be Cen Peng's guard and knew and practiced military affairs, the emperor sent Wu Han to lead Liu Shang and Taizhong doctor Zang Gong to lead more than 10,000 people to crusade.
When Wu Han entered Wudu, he sent troops from Guanghan, Ba, and Shu counties to surround Chengdu. After more than a hundred days, the city was breached and Shi Xin and others were killed.
Wu Han took a raft along the river to Bajun. Yang Wei, Xu Rong and others dispersed in fear. Wu Han killed more than 200 of his generals and moved his party and hundreds of families to Nanjun and Changsha.
Wu Han's character was very strong and strong, so every time he went on an expedition, the emperor was very uneasy and worried.
Usually when the generals see the disadvantages of the battle, some of them become frightened and lose their composure.
But Wu Han was in good spirits, arranging equipment and motivating the officials.
The emperor often sent people to see what Da Sima was doing, and they reported that he was repairing war equipment. The emperor sighed: "The Duke of Wu is more satisfying, and his power is as powerful as an enemy country." Whenever I set off, I would receive orders in the morning and be on the road before sunset, without even having time to pack my gear.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
故能常任职，以功名终。
及在朝廷，斤斤谨质，形于体貌。
汉尝出征，妻子在后买田业。
汉还，让之曰： 军师在外，吏士不足，何多买田宅乎！ 遂尽以分与昆弟外家。
二十年，汉病笃。
车驾亲临，问所欲言。
对曰： 臣愚无所知识，惟愿陛下慎无亦攵而已。 及薨，有诏悼愍，赐谥曰忠侯。
发北军五校、轻车、介士送葬，如大将军霍光故事。
子哀侯成嗣，为奴所杀。
二十八年，分汉封为三国：成子旦为灈阳侯，以奉汉嗣；旦弟盱为筑阳侯；成弟国为新蔡侯。
旦卒，无子，国除。
建初八年，徙封盱为平春侯，以奉汉后。
盱卒，子胜嗣。
初，汉兄尉为将军，从征战死，封尉子彤为安阳侯。
帝以汉功大，复封弟翕为褒亲侯。
吴氏侯者凡五国。
初，渔阳都尉严宣与汉俱会光武于广阿，光武以为偏将军，封建信侯。
论曰：吴汉自建武世，常居上公之位，终始倚爱之亲，谅由质简而强力也。
子曰 刚毅木讷近仁 ，斯岂汉之方乎！
昔陈平智有余以见疑，周勃资朴忠而见信。
夫仁义不足以相怀，则智者以有余为疑，而朴者以不足取信矣。
盖延字巨卿，渔阳要阳人也。
身长八尺，弯弓三百斤。
边俗尚勇力，而延以气闻，历郡列掾、州从事，所在职办。
彭宠为太守，召延署营尉，行护军。
及王郎起，延与吴汉同谋归光武。
延至广阿，拜偏将军，号建功侯，从平河北。
光武即位，以延为虎牙将军。
建武二年，更封安平侯。
translation: 
Therefore, he can hold important positions permanently and spend his whole life with fame.
When he returns to the court, he carefully observes his physical appearance.
After Wu Han went to war, his wife purchased some land at home.
After Wu Han returned, he ordered his wife to say: "The military advisor is away and the officials and soldiers are not enough to provide for themselves, so why buy more land and houses?" So they distributed all the money to Kun's brothers and his mother-in-law.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, Wu Han was critically ill.
Guangwu came to visit in person and asked Wu Han if he had anything to say.
Wu Han said: "I am ignorant. I only hope that your majesty will be careful not to pardon criminals easily." After his death, an imperial edict was issued to commiserate with him and he was given the posthumous title of Zhonghou.
The five schools of the Northern Army, military vehicles, and soldiers were sent to his funeral, just like General Huo Guang's previous funeral.
Zi Aihou Wu became the heir, but was killed by his slaves.
In the 28th year of Jianwu's reign, the fiefdoms of Wu and Han were divided into three kingdoms. Wu Cheng's son Wu Dan was named Quyanghou to worship Wu and Han; Wu Dan's brother Wu Xu was named Zhuyanghou; Wu Cheng's brother Wu Guo was named Xincaihou.
When Wu Dan died, the feudal state was removed because he had no children.
In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wu Xu was granted the title of Marquis of Pingchun in order to honor the descendants of Wu and Han.
Wu Xu died, and his son Wu Sheng succeeded to the throne.
At first, Wu Wei, brother of Wu Han, was a general. He died in the expedition, and Wu Tong, Wu Wei's son, was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang.
The emperor thought that Wu Han had made great contributions and made Wu Xi, Wu Han's younger brother, a prince of praise.
Wu's family has five nobles.
At first, Yan Xuan, the captain of Yuyang, and Wu Handu met with Guangwu in Guang'a. Guangwu made Yan Xuan a partial general and a feudal lord of faith.
The historian commented: Since the founding of Wu Han Dynasty, officials have always occupied the position of superior, and they have always been relied on by Guangwu. It must be because of his loyalty, simplicity and strength.
Confucius said: Fortitude, simplicity, slowness and few words are closer to benevolence. Isn’t this a metaphor from Wu Han?
In the past, Chen Ping was suspicious because of his resourcefulness, and Zhou Bo was loyal and simple, so he was trustworthy.
If benevolence and righteousness are not enough to depend on each other, then the wise will be suspicious because of their many schemes, and the simple will be trusted because of their lack of wisdom.
Gai Yan, named Juqing, was from Yaoyang County, Yuyang County.
He is eight feet long and can draw a bow of three hundred kilograms.
Frontier customs valued prowess, and Guyan was known for his courage. He also works for counties, deputies and states, and can perform his duties wherever he goes.
Peng Chong was appointed as the prefect, and he called Gai Yan to serve as a battalion lieutenant to protect the army.
When Wang Lang rose to prominence, Gai Yan and Wu Han managed to return to Guangwu.
Gai Yan went to Guang'a, where he was worshiped as a partial general and given the title of Jiangonghou. He followed him to pacify Hebei.
Guangwu ascended the throne and appointed Gai Yan as General Huya.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遣南击敖仓，转攻酸枣、封丘，皆拔。
其夏，督驸马都尉马武、骑都尉刘隆、护军都尉马成、偏将军王霸等南伐刘永，先攻拔襄邑，进取麻乡，遂围永于睢阳。
数月，尽收野麦，夜梯其城入。
永惊惧，引兵走出东门，延追击，大破之。
永弃军走谯，延进攻，拔薛，斩其鲁郡太守，而彭城、扶阳、杼秋、萧皆降。
又破永沛郡太守，斩之。
永将苏茂、佼彊、周建等三万余人救永，共攻延，延与战于沛西，大破之。
永军乱，遁没溺死者大半。
永弃城走湖陵，苏茂奔广乐。
延遂定沛、楚、临淮，修高祖庙，置啬夫、祝宰、乐人。
三年，睢阳复反城迎刘永，延复率诸将围之百日，收其野谷。
永乏食，突走，延追击，尽得辎重。
永为其所杀，永弟防举城降。
四年春，延又击苏茂、周建于蕲，进与董宪战留下，皆破之。
因率平狄将军庞萌攻西防，拔之。
复追败周建、苏茂于彭城，茂、建亡奔董宪，董宪将贲休举兰陵城降。
宪闻之，自郯围休。
时，延及庞萌在楚，请往救之。
帝敕曰： 可直往捣郯，则兰陵必自解。 延等以贲休城危，遂先赴之。
宪逆战而阳败，延等逐退，因拔围入城。
明日，宪大出兵合围，延等惧，遽出突走，因往攻郯。
帝让之曰： 间欲先赴郯者，以其不意故耳。
今既奔走，贼计已立，围岂可解乎！ 延等至郯，果不能克，而董宪遂拔兰陵，杀贲休。
延等往来要击宪别将于彭城、郯、邳之间，战或日数合，颇有克获。
帝以延轻敌深入，数以书诫之。
及庞萌反，攻杀楚郡太守，引军袭败延，延走，北渡泗水，破舟楫，坏津梁，仅而得免。
帝自将而东，征延与大司马吴汉、汉忠将军王常、前将军王梁、捕虏将军马武、讨虏将军王霸等会任城，讨庞萌于桃乡，又并从征董宪于昌虑，皆破平之。
六年春，遣屯长安。
九年，隗嚣死，延西击街泉、略阳、清水诸屯聚，皆定。
十一年，与中郎将来歙攻河池，未克，以病引还，拜为左冯翊，将军如故。
translation: 
He was sent to attack Aocang in the south, then to Suanzao and Fengqiu counties, and captured them all.
In the summer of that year, the governor led the prince-in-law Ma Wu, the cavalry commander Liu Long, the guard commander Ma Cheng, and the partial general Wang Ba to attack Liu Yong in the south. He first captured Xiangyi and then Masiang County, and then surrounded Liu Yong in Suiyang.
After several months, he harvested all the wheat in the fields and entered the city by ladder at night.
Liu Yong was frightened and led his troops to escape from the east gate. Gai Yan pursued and defeated Liu Yong's army.
Liu Yong abandoned his army and fled to Qiao. Gai Yan attacked Xue County and killed his prefect of Lu County. Pengcheng, Fuyang, Zhuqiu and Xiao County all surrendered.
He also defeated the prefect of Liu Yongpei County and killed him.
Liu Yong's generals Su Mao, Jiaojiang, Zhou Jian and more than 30,000 men rescued Liu Yong and attacked Gaiyan together. Gaiyan fought with them in Peixi and defeated his army.
Liu Yong's army was in chaos, and most of them fell into the water and drowned.
Liu Yong abandoned the city and went to Huling, while Su Mao went to Guangle.
Gai Yan then pacified Pei, Chu, Linhuai and other places, built the temple of Gaozu, and appointed Shifu, Zhuzai and musicians to preside over temple worship.
In the third year of Jianwu, Suiyang rebelled again and welcomed Liu Yong back. Gai Yan again led his generals to besiege him for a hundred days to collect wheat from the fields.
Liu Yong was short of food and broke out. Gai Yan pursued him and captured all his luggage.
Liu Yong was killed by his generals, and Liu Yong's younger brother Liu Fang surrendered the city.
In the spring of the fourth year of Jianwu, Gai Yan attacked Sumao and Zhou Jian again in Qixian, and advanced to fight Dong Xian in Liuxian, both of which were defeated.
Therefore, he led Ping Di General Pang Meng to attack Xifang County and captured it.
They pursued and defeated Zhou Jian and Su Mao in Pengcheng. Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Dong Xian, and Dong Xian's general Ben Xiu surrendered in Lanling City.
When Dong Xian heard this, he surrounded Ben Xiu from Tan.
Gai Yan and Pang Meng were in Chu at that time and requested rescue.
The emperor ordered: "You can go straight to Paotan, and the siege of Lanling will be lifted." Gai Yan and others wanted to protect the city from danger, so they went first.
Dong Xian faced the enemy and pretended to be defeated. Gai Yan and others drove him back, thus breaking the siege and entering the city.
The next day, Dong Xianda sent out troops to encircle. Gai Yan's army was afraid and hurriedly left the city to break out of the encirclement and attack Tan.
The emperor reproached him and said: "It turns out that I ordered you to attack Tan first, just to surprise the enemy."
Now that they are on the run and the bandit army's plan has been laid down, how can the siege of Lanling be solved? Gai Yan waited until Tan was unable to capture it, but Dong Xian captured Lanling and killed Ben Xiu.
Gai Yan and others went back and forth to invite Dong Xian to leave between Pengcheng, Tan and Pi, or fight several battles every day, and some gains were achieved.
The emperor used cover and extension to underestimate the enemy and went deeper, and issued several edicts to admonish him.
When Pang Meng rebelled, he attacked and killed the governor of Chu, and led an army to attack and defeat Gai Yan. Gai Yan fled north and crossed the Si River, destroying the boats and dismantling the bridges, and only escaped with his own life.
The emperor led his army to the east. He recruited Gai Yan, Grand Sima Wu Han, Han loyal general Wang Chang, former general Wang Liang, captor general Ma Wu, and captive general Wang Ba to join forces in Rencheng. They attacked Pang Meng in Taoxiang, and together they conquered Dong Xian in Changli, and they all defeated and pacified Ding.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he was sent to garrison Chang'an.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Kuai Xiao died, and Gai Yanxi attacked the settlements in Jiequan, Lueyang and Qingshui counties and pacified them.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he and Zhonglang attacked Hechi in the future, but failed, so he was lured back due to illness. He worshiped Zuo Fengyi and led the troops as before.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
十三年，增封定食万户。
十五年，薨于位。
子扶嗣。
扶卒，子侧嗣。
永平十三年，坐与舅王平谋反，伏诛，国除。
永初七年，邓太后绍封延曾孙恢为芦亭侯。
恢卒，子遂嗣。
陈俊字子昭，西阳西鄂人也。
少为郡吏，更始立，以宗室刘嘉为太常将军，俊为长史。
光武徇河北，嘉遣书荐俊，光武以为安集掾。
从击铜马于清阳，进至蒲阳，拜强弩将军。
与五校战于安次，俊下马，手接短兵，所向必破，追奔二十余里，斩其渠帅而还。
光武望而叹曰： 战将尽如是，岂有忧哉！ 五校引退入渔阳，所过虏掠。
俊言于光武曰： 宜令轻骑出贼前，使百姓各自坚壁，以绝其食，可不战而殄也。 光武然之，遣俊将轻骑驰出贼前。
视人保壁坚完者，敕令固守；放散在野者，因掠取之。
贼至无所得，遂散败。
及军还，光武谓俊曰： 困此虏者，将军策也。 及即位，封俊为列侯。
建武二年春，攻匡贼，下四县，更封新处侯。
引击顿丘，降三城。
其秋，大司马吴汉承制拜俊为强弩大将军，别击金门、白马贼于河内，皆破之。
四年，转徇汝阳及项，又拔南武阳。
是时，太山豪杰多拥众与张步连兵，吴汉言于帝曰： 非陈俊莫能定此郡。 于是拜俊太山太守，行大将军事。
张步闻之，遣其将击俊，战于嬴下，俊大破之，追至济南，收得印绶九十余，稍攻下诸县，遂定太山。
五年，与建威大将军耿弇共破张步。
事在《弇传》。
时，琅邪未平，乃徙俊为琅邪太守，领将军如故。
齐地素闻俊名，入界，盗贼皆解散。
俊将兵击董宪于赣榆，进破朐贼孙阳，平之。
八年，张步畔，还琅邪，俊追讨，斩之。
帝美其功，诏俊得专征青、徐。
俊抚贫弱，表有义，检制军吏，不得与郡县相干，百姓歌之。
数上书自请，愿奋击陇、蜀。
诏报曰： 东州新平，大将军之功也。
负海猾夏，盗贼之处，国家以为重忧，且勉镇抚之。
十三年，增邑，定封祝阿侯。
明年，征奉朝请。
二十三年卒。
子浮嗣，徙封薪春侯。
浮卒，子专诸嗣。
专诸卒，子笃嗣。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, 10,000 households were added to the fiefdom.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he died of illness.
Zi Gai supports the heir.
Help him die, and he will be the next heir.
In the 13th year of Yongping, he was killed because of rebellion with his uncle Wang Ping, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Empress Dowager Deng succeeded Gai Hui, Gai Yan's great-grandson, as Marquis of Luting.
After Gai Hui died, Zi Gai succeeded to the throne.
Chen Jun, whose courtesy name was Zizhao, was from Xi'e, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he was a county official. Gengshi was established, with clan member Liu Jia as Taichang General and Chen Jun as Changshi.
Guangwu attacked Hebei, Liu Jia recommended Chen Jun in letters, and Guangwu appointed Chen Jun as his governor.
Follow Guangwu to attack the bronze horse in Qingyang, enter Puyang, and worship as General Qiannu.
During the battle with the Five Schools in Anci, Chen Jun dismounted his horse and took up short soldiers. The thieves would be defeated wherever they went. He chased for more than 20 miles, killed his commander and returned.
Guangwu looked at it and sighed: If all the generals were like him, there would be nothing to worry about! The five schools retreated into Yuyang, looting and plundering wherever they went.
Chen Jun said to Guangwu: "You should order the Qingqi to appear in front of the rebel army, so that the people can hold on to the barriers to cut off the rebel army's food, and then the enemy can be annihilated without a fight." Guangwu thought so and sent Chen Jun to lead Qingqi in front of the thieves.
When he saw that the people were guarding strong and intact fortifications, he ordered them to hold on; if they were scattered, he plundered them.
In this way, the bandits will be defeated when they have nothing to gain.
When he returned to the army, Guangwu said to Chen Jun: "These thieves are troubled."
This is the general's strategy. Guangwu ascended the throne and made Chen Jun a marquis. In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, he attacked the Kuang bandits, captured four counties, and granted the new title of Marquis.
They led an attack on Dunqiu and the three cities surrendered.
In the autumn of that year, the Grand Sima Wu Han Cheng ordered Chen Jun to be appointed as the General of Strong Crossbows. He also attacked Kinmen and the White Horse Bandits in Hanoi, and defeated them both.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he turned to attack Ruyang and Xiang, and then attacked Nanwuyang.
At this time, most of Taishan's heroes had troops and Zhang Bu's company. Wu Han said to Guangwu: No one but Chen Jun can pacify this county. So he worshiped Chen Jun as the prefect of Taishan and acted as the military general.
Zhang Bu heard about it and sent his generals to attack Chen Jun. They fought against Yingxia. Chen Jun defeated his army and chased him to Jinan. He collected more than 90 seals and ribbons, and then conquered various counties and pacified Mount Taishan.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he and Jianwei General Geng Yan defeated Zhang Bu.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Geng Yan".
At this time, Langfu was not pacified, so Chen Jun was moved to be the prefect of Langfu, and his military leadership remained the same as in the past.
Qi Di has always heard of Chen Jun's reputation. As soon as Chen Jun arrived, the thieves dispersed.
Chen Jun led his army to attack Dong Xian in Ganyu County. He marched and defeated the Qu thief Sun Yang, and Langji was pacified.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Zhang Bu rebelled and returned to Langyi. Chen Jun sent troops to pursue Zhang Bu and kill him.
The emperor praised his achievements and ordered Chen Jun to conquer Qing and Xuzhou specifically.
Chen Jun comforted the poor, commended the righteous, restrained the military officials from interfering in the affairs of counties and counties, and the people praised him.
He wrote several times to invite himself, willing to fight against Kai Xiao and Gongsun Shu.
The edict replied: Dongzhou has just been pacified, and it is thanks to the great general.
The coastal waters of Dongzhou are disturbed and are a hiding place for thieves. The imperial court is concerned about this place. Please try your best to pacify it for the time being.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the city was increased and it was named Zhu'ahou.
Next year, he will be summoned back to Beijing to serve at the court's invitation.
Jianwu died in the 23rd year of his reign.
His son Chen Fu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Qichun.
After Fu died, his son Chen Zhuanzhu succeeded him.
Zhuan Zhu died, and his son Chen Du succeeded to the throne.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臧宫字君翁，颍川郏人也。
少为县亭长、游徼，后率宾客入下江兵中为校尉，因从光武征战，诸将多称其勇。
光武察宫勤力少言，甚亲纳之。
及至河北，以为偏将军，从破群贼，数陷陈却敌。
光武即位，以为侍中、骑都尉。
建武二年，封成安侯。
明年，将突骑与征虏将军祭遵击更始将左防、韦颜于涅阳、郦，悉降之。
五年，将兵徇江夏，击代乡、钟武、竹里，皆下之。
帝使太中大夫持节拜宫为辅威将军。
七年，更封期思侯。
击梁郡、济阴，皆平之。
十一年，将兵至中卢，屯骆越。
是时，公孙述将田戎、任满与征南大将军岑彭相距于荆门，彭等战数不利，越人谋畔从蜀。
官兵少，力不能制。
会属县送委输车数百乘至，宫夜使锯断城门限，令车声回转出入至旦。
越人候伺者闻车声不绝，而门限断，相告以汉兵大至。
其渠帅乃奉牛、酒以劳军营。
宫陈兵大会，击牛酾酒，飨赐慰纳之，越人由是遂安。
宫与岑彭等破荆门，别至垂鹊山，通道出秭归，至江州。
岑彭下巴郡，使宫将降卒五万，从涪水上平曲。
公孙述将延岑盛兵于沈水，时宫众多食少，转输不至，而降者皆欲散畔，郡邑复更保聚，观望成败。
宫欲引还，恐为所反，会帝遣谒者将兵诣岑彭，有马七百匹，宫矫制取以自益，晨夜进兵，多张旗帜，登山鼓噪，右步左骑，挟船而引，呼声动山谷。
岑不意汉军卒至，登山望之，大震恐。
宫因从击，大破之。斩首溺死者万余人，水为之浊流。
延岑奔成都，其众悉降，尽获其兵马珍宝。
自是乘胜追北，降者以十万数。
军至平阳乡，蜀将王元举众降。
进拔绵竹，破涪城，斩公孙述弟恢，复攻拔繁、郫。
前后收得节五，印绶千八百。
是时，大司马吴汉亦乘胜进营逼成都。
宫连屠大城，兵马旌旗甚盛，乃乘兵入小雒郭门，历成都城下，至吴汉营，饮酒高会。
汉见之甚欢，谓宫曰： 将军向者经虏城下，震扬威灵，风行电照。
translation: 
Zang Gong, courtesy name Junweng, was from Jiaxian County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he was the head of the county pavilion and traveled around. Later, he led the guests to join the Xiajiang Army as a captain. Therefore, he followed Guangwu in the battles, and many generals praised him for his bravery.
Guangwu inspected Zang Palace, worked diligently and spoke little, and received him cordially.
When he arrived in Hebei, he took him as a partial general and followed him to defeat the bandits. He captured the enemy's positions many times and drove back the enemy.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he was appointed as Shizhong and Cavalry Commander.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of An.
The next year, he led the assault cavalry and the conquest general Ji Zun to attack Gengshi generals Zuofang and Wei Yan at Nieyang and Li. Zuo and Wei both surrendered.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, he led his troops to attack Jiangxia, attacked Daixiang, Zhongwu, and Zhuli, and captured them all.
The emperor sent the Taizhong doctor to pay homage to Zang Palace with a talisman to assist General Wei.
In July, the period of mourning is changed.
Liangjun and Jiyin were both pacified.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he led his troops to Zhonglu County and stationed troops in Luoyue.
At this time, Tian Rong and Ren Man, the generals of Gongsun Shu's tribe, and Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, refused to fight in Jingzhou. Cen Peng and others were unsuccessful in several battles, and the Yue people were ready to rebel and return to Shu.
Zang Gong had few soldiers and was unable to control them.
It happened that hundreds of transfer vehicles arrived from various counties. Zang Gong sent people to saw off the city gate threshold at night and push carts in and out, making the sound of carts ringing until early morning.
The Yue scouts heard the constant sound of cars and the broken city gate threshold, and informed each other that a large group of Han soldiers had arrived.
The commander-in-chief offered cattle and wine to comfort the military camp.
At Zang Palace's army meeting, cattle were killed and wine was poured out, and people were comforted and accepted. The Yue people gradually settled down.
Zang Gong, Cen Peng and others broke through Jingmen and went to Chuique Mountain. They passed through Zigui and reached Jiangzhou.
Cen Peng captured Bajun and ordered Zang Gong to lead 50,000 surrendered soldiers to level the bend on the Fu River.
Gongsun Shu's general Yancen sent his army to Shenshui. At this time, Zang palace had more soldiers and less food, and could not transport it. The 50,000 surrendered soldiers wanted to break up and rebel. All the counties and counties just wanted to protect themselves and wait and see whether they would succeed or not.
Zang Gong wanted to lead his troops back, but he was afraid that he would be rebelled by his surrender. At this time, the emperor sent an envoy to lead his troops to Cen Peng. There were 700 horses. Zang Gong pretended to ask the emperor to get them to arm himself. He marched at night with many flags. He climbed the mountain and beat drums and shouted. On the right were infantry and on the left were cavalry. They entered with ships, and the sound of shouts shook the valley.
Yancen didn't expect the Han soldiers to arrive suddenly. He climbed up the mountain to watch, and was extremely frightened.
As a result, Zang Gong launched his troops to attack and defeated the Shu army. More than 10,000 people were beheaded and drowned, and the water turned red.
Yancen rushed back to Chengdu, where all his troops surrendered and captured all the soldiers, horses and treasures of Shu.
From then on, they took advantage of the victory and pursued it, and as many as 100,000 Shu soldiers surrendered.
Marching to Pingyang Township, Shu general Wang Yuan surrendered in large numbers.
They marched to capture Mianzhu, defeated Fucheng, killed Gongsun Shu's younger brother Gongsun Hui, and then captured Fan and Pi counties.
Five talismans were collected before and after, and one thousand eight hundred seals and ribbons were obtained.
At this time, Grand Sima Wu Han also took advantage of the victory and marched directly towards Chengdu.
Zang Gong defeated the big city, and his troops, horses, and flags were very strong, so he sent his troops into Xiaoluoguo Gate, patrolled the city of Chengdu, and went to Wuhan camp for a drinking and banquet.
Wu Han was very happy to see him and said to Zang Gong: When the general came, he passed by the enemy city. He was so powerful that he walked like the wind and shined like lightning.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
然穷寇难量，还营愿从它道矣。 宫不从，复路而归，贼亦不敢近之。
进军咸门，与吴汉并灭公孙述。
帝以蜀地新定，拜宫为广汉太守。
十三年，增邑，更封酂侯。
十五年，征还京师，以列侯奉朝请，定封朗陵侯。
十八年，拜太中大夫。
十九年，妖巫维汜弟子单臣、傅镇等，复妖言相聚，入原武城，劫吏人，自称将军。
于是遣宫将北军及黎阳营数千人围之。
贼谷食多，数攻不下，士卒死伤。
帝召公卿诸侯王问方略，皆曰 宜重其购赏 。
时，显宗为东海王，独对曰： 妖巫相劫，势无久立，其中必有悔欲亡者。
但外围急，不得走耳。
宜小挺缓，令得逃亡，逃亡则一亭长足以禽矣。 帝然之，即敕宫彻围缓贼，贼众分散，遂斩臣、镇等。
宫还，迁城门校尉，复转左中郎将。
击武溪贼，至江陵，降之。
宫以谨信质朴，故常见任用。
后匈奴饥疫，自相分争，帝以问宫，宫曰： 愿得五千骑以立功。 帝笑曰： 常胜之家，难与虑敌，吾方自思之。 二十七年，宫乃与杨虚侯马武上书曰： 匈奴贪利，无有礼信，穷则稽首，安则侵盗，缘边被其毒痛，中国忧其抵突。
虏今人畜疫死，旱蝗赤地，疫困之力，不当中国一郡。
万里死命，县在陛下。
福不再来，时或易失，岂宜固守文德而堕武事乎？
今命将临塞，厚县购赏，喻告高句骊、乌恒、鲜卑攻其左，发河西四郡、天水、陇西羌胡击其右。
translation: 
However, poverty is hard to estimate. I hope you will change your ways when you return. Zang Gong didn't listen and still returned from the original route. The thieves did not dare to approach.
Marched into Xianmen, and together with Wu Han destroyed Gongsun Shu.
The emperor newly established the territory of Shu and worshiped Zang Palace as the prefect of Guanghan.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the number of towns increased, and the title of Marquis Zan was granted.
In the fifteenth year of Wu's reign, he was summoned to the capital, and at the invitation of the court, he was appointed Marquis of Langling.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he paid homage to Dr. Taizhong.
In the 19th year of Jianwu's reign, Shan Chen, Fu Zhen, and others, disciples of the witch Wei Si, once again gathered together with the witch's words, entered the original Wucheng, robbed officials and people, and claimed to be generals.
So Zang Gong was sent to lead the Northern Army and thousands of people from the Liyang Camp to surround Shan Chen and others.
The thieves had a lot of food, but they failed to capture it several times, and the soldiers were killed or wounded.
The emperor summoned the ministers, princes and kings to inquire about the strategy, and they all said: The reward should be increased.
Xianzong was the king of the East China Sea at that time, and he replied: "The demons and witches are in danger, and their power cannot last long. Some of them must repent and want to flee."
But the outside was tightly surrounded and there was no way to escape.
The siege should be relaxed slightly and they should be allowed to escape, so that only one pavilion commander can capture them alive. The emperor thought so and ordered Zang Gong to withdraw from the siege and slow down the thieves. The thieves fled and dispersed, so Shan Chen, Fu Zhen and others were killed.
When Zang Gong returned, he was promoted to the city gate school captain, and then to the Zuo Zhonglang general.
They attacked the bandits in Wuxi Valley and when they arrived at Jiangling, they surrendered.
Because Zang Gong was cautious, trustworthy and simple, he was often appointed.
Later, there was a famine and epidemic in the Xiongnu, and there were internal disputes among themselves. The emperor asked Zang Gong about this, and Zang Gong said: I am willing to lead five thousand cavalry to perform meritorious service. The emperor smiled and said: "It is difficult for a home that is always victorious to plan for the enemy's country. I am thinking about it myself." In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Zang Gong and Xiangxuhou Mawu wrote a letter saying: The Huns are greedy for profit and have no etiquette. When they are poor, they will bow their heads to the ground to worship their ministers. When they are stable, they invade and steal from the outside. The border has been poisoned and hurt by them. China is worried about their rudeness.
Now the Xiongnu people and livestock are dead from the epidemic, and the drought locusts have eaten all the food on the ground. The epidemic is so severe that it cannot withstand a single county in China.
Thousands of miles of dying life hang in His Majesty's hands.
Opportunities are easy to lose and blessings never come. How can we stick to virtue and abandon martial arts?
Now send a general to the north of the Great Wall, offer a heavy reward, and tell Goguryeo, Wuhuan, and Xianbei to send troops to attack its left, and send troops and horses from the four counties of Hexi to join Tianshui and Longxi Qianghu to attack its right.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
如此，北虏之灭，不过数年。
臣恐陛下仁恩不忍，谋臣狐疑，令万世刻石之功不立于圣世。 诏报曰： 《黄石公记》曰， 柔能制刚，弱能制强 。
柔者德也，刚者贼也，弱者仁之助也，强者怨之归也。
故曰有德之君，以所乐乐人；无德之君，以所乐乐身。
乐人者其乐长，乐身者不久而亡。
舍近谋远者，劳而无功；舍远谋近者，逸而有终。
逸政多忠臣，劳政多乱人。
故曰务广地者荒，务广德者强。
有其有者安，贪人有者残。
残灭之政，虽成必败。
今国无善政，灾变不息，百姓惊惶，人不自保，而复欲远事边外乎？
孔子曰： 吾恐季孙之忧，不在颛臾。
且北狄尚强，而屯田警备传闻之事，恒多失实。
诚能举天下之半以灭大寇，岂非至愿；苟非其时，不如息人。 自是诸将莫敢复言兵事者。
宫永平元年卒，谥曰愍侯。
子信嗣。信卒，子震嗣。
震卒，子松嗣。
元初四年，与母别居，国除。
永宁元年，邓太后绍封松弟由为郎陵侯。
论曰：中兴之业，诚艰难也。
然敌无秦、项之强，人资附汉之思，虽怀玺纡绂，跨陵州县，殊名诡号，千队为群，尚未足以为比功上烈也。
至于山西既定，威临天下，戎竭丧其精胆，群帅贾其余壮，斯诚雄心尚武之几，先志玩兵之日。
臧宫、马武之徒，抚鸣剑而抵掌，志驰于伊吾之北矣。
光武审《黄石》，存包桑，闭玉门以谢西域之质，卑词币以礼匈奴之使，其意防盖已弘深。岂其颠沛平城之围，忍伤黥王之陈乎？
translation: 
In this way, the destruction of Beilu will be successful in just a few years.
I am afraid that your majesty will be unkind and your advisers will be doubtful, so that the merits of carving stone and tree monuments for eternity will not be established in the contemporary holy world. The edict replied: "Huangshi Gongji" says: Softness can control hardness, and weakness can control strength.
Tenderness is virtue, hardness is a thief, the weak are helped by benevolence, and the strong are the destination of resentment.
Therefore, it is said that a virtuous king enjoys others according to what he enjoys; an unvirtuous king enjoys himself only according to what he enjoys.
He who can please others will be happy for a long time, and he who can only enjoy himself will soon die.
Those who seek the near at the expense of the near often work in vain; those who seek the near at the expense of the distant are often comfortable and have an end.
When politics is comfortable, there will be more loyal ministers; when politics is hard, there will be more chaotic people.
Therefore, those who strive to expand their territory will become desolate, and those who strive to implement virtuous government will become strong.
Those who are satisfied with what they have will find peace, while those who are greedy for what others have will lead to destruction.
A cruel government, although successful for a while, will eventually fail.
Now the country does not have good politics, the disasters continue, the people are shocked and frightened, and the people cannot protect themselves, but do they still want to go abroad?
Confucius said: I am afraid that Ji Sun's worries are not in Zhuan Yu.
Moreover, Beidi is still very powerful, and the information obtained from rumors about the garrison guards is often one-sided and inaccurate.
Sure enough, it is not the greatest wish to be able to take half of the world and destroy the big bandits; but if it is not timely, then it is better to let people recuperate and recuperate. From then on, none of the generals dared to talk about war.
Zang Gong died in the first year of Yongping, and his posthumous title was Minhou.
Zizang believed in the throne, believed in death, and Zizang Zhen succeeded in the throne.
After Zhen died, his son Zang Song succeeded him.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, he lived with his mother separately, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the first year of Yongning, Empress Dowager Deng succeeded Zang Song's younger brother Zang You as Marquis of Langling.
The historian commented: ZTE's career was really difficult.
However, the enemy was not as powerful as Emperor Qin and Xiang Yu, and people still cherished the idea of ​​​​submitting to the Han Dynasty. Although they had official seals and official seals, they traveled across prefectures and counties under various names or false numbers, and formed thousands of groups, which was not enough to compete with dignitaries and high-ranking officials.
When Shanxi is pacified and its power reaches the world, the Rong Jie have lost their energy and courage, and the generals and generals are brave. This is really a good opportunity to be ambitious and martial, and it is a time to take advantage of the victory to practice the army.
Zang Gong and Ma Wu's disciples held their swords in their palms, and their ambitions were galloping to the north of Yiwu.
When Guangwu read "Huangshi Gongji", he was always afraid and uneasy. He closed the Jade Gate to thank the hostages in the Western Regions and responded to the Xiongnu envoys with words and coins. His defensive awareness was already very grand and far-reaching. Could it be that he was worried about being surrounded by Pingcheng like Gaozu, and he couldn't bear to be wounded in the battle when he personally attacked Yingbu like Gaozu?


