Chunk 0: 
original: 
韩王信者，故韩襄王孽孙也，长八尺五寸。
及项梁之立楚後怀王也，燕、齐、赵、魏皆已前王，唯韩无有後，故立韩诸公子横阳君成为韩王，欲以抚定韩故地。
项梁败死定陶，成饹怀王。
沛公引兵击阳城，使张良以韩司徒降下韩故地，得信，以为韩将，将其兵从沛公入武关。
沛公立为汉王，韩信从入汉中，乃说汉王曰： 项王王诸将近地，而王独远居此，此左迁也。
士卒皆山东人，跂而望归，及其锋东乡，可以争天下。
汉王还定三秦，乃许信为韩王，先拜信为韩太尉，将兵略韩地。
项籍之封诸王皆就国，韩王成以不从无功，不遣就国，更以为列侯。
translation: 
King Han Xin of Han was the concubine grandson of the original King Xiang of Han. He was eight feet five inches tall.
When Xiang Liang supported King Chu Huai, the descendant of King Chu, Yan, Qi, Zhao, and Wei had already established their own kings. Only South Korea had no successor, so Hancheng, Lord Hengyang among the Korean princes, was made King of Han, hoping to appease the land of the original South Korea.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in Dingtao, and Han Cheng defected to King Huai of Chu.
When Pei Gong led the army to attack Yangcheng, he ordered Zhang Liang to surrender the original territory of South Korea as the Korean Situ. He obtained Han Xin and appointed him as the general of South Korea. He led his army to follow Pei Gong into Wuguan.
Pei Gong was appointed as the king of Han. Han Xin followed Pei Gong into Hanzhong and persuaded the king of Han: "Xiang Yu has sealed all his subordinates in the areas near the Central Plains, but you, the king, are in this far away place. This is tantamount to demotion!"
The soldiers under your command are all from the east of Mount Laoshan. They stand on tiptoe, eager to return to their hometown, so that while they are strong and strong, they can march eastward and compete for the world.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, he agreed to make Han Xin the King of Han. He first appointed him as Taiwei Han to lead troops to capture the old land of Korea.
The princes and kings granted by Xiang Yu all went to their respective fiefdoms. King Han Cheng of Han did not follow Xiang Yu in the battle and had no military exploits, so he was not sent to the fiefdom and instead made him a prince.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及闻汉遣韩信略韩地，乃令故项籍游吴时吴令郑昌为韩王以距汉。
汉二年，韩信略定韩十馀城。
汉王至河南，韩信急击韩王昌阳城。
昌降，汉王乃立韩信为韩王，常将韩兵从。
三年，汉王出荥阳，韩王信、周苛等守荥阳。
及楚败荥阳，信降楚，已而得亡，复归汉，汉复立以为韩王，竟从击破项籍，天下定。
五年春，遂与剖符为韩王，王颍川。
明年春，上以韩信材武，所王北近巩、洛，南迫宛、叶，东有淮阳，皆天下劲兵处，乃诏徙韩王信王太原以北，备御胡，都晋阳。
信上书曰： 国被边，匈奴数入，晋阳去塞远，请治马邑。
上许之，信乃徙治马邑。
translation: 
When he heard that the king of Han sent Han Xin to attack Han, he ordered Zheng Chang, the magistrate of Wu County when he was traveling in Wu, to be the king of Han to resist the Han army.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin pacified more than a dozen cities in Korea.
When the King of Han arrived in Henan, Han Xin violently attacked King Zheng Chang of Han in Yangcheng.
When Zheng Chang surrendered, the King of Han made Han Xin the King of Han, and he often led the Korean army to follow the King of Han.
In the third year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han withdrew from Xingyang, and King Han Xin, Zhou Ke and others guarded Xingyang.
When the Chu army conquered Xingyang, Han Xin surrendered to the Chu army, escaped soon, and surrendered to the King of Han. The King of Han again made him King of Han, and finally followed the King of Han to defeat Xiang Yu and pacify the world.
In the spring of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty cut the talisman with Han Xin as a letter and officially named him King of Han, with the fiefdom in Yingchuan.
In the spring of the next year, Emperor Gaozu thought that Han Xin was strong and brave, and his fief Yingchuan was close to Gongxian and Luoyang in the north, Wanxian and Yexian in the south, and the important town of Huaiyang in the east. These were all strategic places in the world, so he issued an edict and ordered Han Xin, the king of Han, to move to the north of Taiyuan to prepare for resistance to the Xiongnu and establish Jinyang as his capital.
Han Xin wrote: "My kingdom is close to the border. The Huns have invaded many times. Jinyang is far from the border. Please allow me to establish Mayi as the capital."
The emperor agreed, and Han Xin moved the capital to Mayi.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
秋，匈奴冒顿大围信，信数使使胡求和解。
汉发兵救之，疑信数间使，有二心，使人责让信。
信恐诛，因与匈奴约共攻汉，反，以马邑降胡，击太原。
七年冬，上自往击，破信军铜鞮，斩其将王喜。
信亡走匈奴。其与白土人曼丘臣、王黄等立赵苗裔赵利为王，复收信败散兵，而与信及冒顿谋攻汉。
匈奴仗左右贤王将万馀骑与王黄等屯广武以南，至晋阳，与汉兵战，汉大破之，追至于离石，破之。
匈奴复聚兵楼烦西北，汉令车骑击破匈奴。
匈奴常败走，汉乘胜追北，闻冒顿居代谷，高皇帝居晋阳，使人视冒顿，还报曰 可击 。
上遂至平城。
上出白登，匈奴骑围上，上乃使人厚遗阏氏。
阏氏乃说冒顿曰： 今得汉地，犹不能居；且两主不相戹。
translation: 
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu Maodun Shanyu surrounded Han Xin heavily. Han Xin sent envoys to the Xiongnu many times to sue for peace.
The Han Dynasty sent people to lead troops to rescue, but they suspected that Han Xin had sent envoys privately many times and had the intention of betraying the Han Dynasty, so he sent people to blame Han Xin.
Han Xin was afraid of being killed, so he made an agreement with the Xiongnu to jointly attack the Han Dynasty, raised an army to rebel, surrendered the capital of Mayi to the Xiongnu, and led his army to attack Taiyuan.
In the winter of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the emperor personally led an army to attack Han Xin, defeated Han Xin's army in Tongdan, and beheaded his general Wang Xi.
Han Xin fled and defected to the Huns. His generals Manqichuchen, Wang Huang and others from the Bai Tu people supported Zhao Li, a descendant of King Zhao, as king. They also gathered Han Xin's defeated and fled army, and negotiated with Han Xin and the Xiongnu Maodun Shanyu to attack the Han Dynasty.
The Xiongnu sent the right and left wise kings to lead more than 10,000 cavalry and Wang Huang and others to station in the area south of Guangwu. When they arrived in Jinyang, they fought with the Han army. The Han army defeated them. They took advantage of the victory and pursued them to Lishi, where they were defeated again.
The Xiongnu again gathered troops in the Xijiang area of ​​Loufan, and Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty ordered chariot troops and cavalry to defeat them.
The Xiongnu were always defeated and fled, and the Han army took advantage of the victory to pursue the defeated troops. I heard that Maodun Shanyu was stationed in Daigu. Han Emperor Gaozu was in Jinyang at the time and sent people to scout Maodun. The scouts came back and reported that they could attack.
The emperor also arrived at Pingcheng.
When the emperor left the city and climbed Baishan Mountain, he was surrounded by the Huns' cavalry. The emperor sent people to give many gifts to the Queen of the Huns.
The Yan family then advised Maodun Shanyu, saying: Now that the land of the Han Dynasty has been captured, it is still impossible to live there; let alone the monarchs of the two countries do not besiege each other.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
居七日，胡骑稍引去。
时天大雾，汉使人往来，胡不觉。
护军中尉陈平言上曰： 胡者全兵，请令彊弩傅两矢外乡，徐行出围。
入平城，汉救兵亦到，胡骑遂解去。
汉亦罢兵归。
韩信为匈奴将兵往来击边。
汉十年，信令王黄等说误陈豨。
十一年春，故韩王信复与胡骑入居参合，距汉。
汉使柴将军击之，遗信书曰： 陛下宽仁，诸侯虽有畔亡，而复归，辄复故位号，不诛也。
大王所知。
今王以败亡走胡，非有大罪，急自归！
韩王信报曰： 陛下擢仆起闾巷，南面称孤，此仆之幸也。
荥阳之事，仆不能死，囚於项籍，此一罪也。
及寇攻马邑，仆不能坚守，以城降之，此二罪也。
今反为寇将兵，与将军争一旦之命，此三罪也。
夫种、蠡无一罪，身死亡；今仆有三罪於陛下，而欲求活於世，此伍子胥所以偾於吴也。
今仆亡匿山谷间，旦暮乞贷蛮夷，仆之思归，如痿人不忘起，盲者不忘视也，势不可耳。
遂战。柴将军屠参合，斩韩王信。
translation: 
After seven days, the Huns cavalry gradually dispersed.
At that time, heavy fog fell from the sky, and the Han Dynasty sent people to travel between Baishan Mountain and Heping City. The Xiongnu did not notice at all.
Chen Ping, the lieutenant of the guard, said to the emperor: The Huns all use long spears and bows. Please order the soldiers to shoot two sharp arrows outwards with each strong crossbow, and slowly withdraw from the encirclement.
After retreating into Pingcheng, reinforcements from the Han Dynasty also arrived, and the Huns' cavalry finally relieved the siege and left.
The Han Dynasty also withdrew its troops and returned.
Han Xin led troops for the Huns to attack the Han army along the border.
In the tenth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Han Xin ordered Wang Huang and others to persuade Chen Xi, causing him to misbelieve and rebel.
In the spring of the eleventh year, Han Xin, the former king of Han, invaded Shenhe together with the Huns cavalry to fight against the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent General Chai to lead troops to attack. General Chai first wrote to Han Xin: Your Majesty the Emperor is generous and kind. Although some princes rebelled and fled, when they returned to submission again, they always restored their original titles and titles and did not execute them.
These are all things you know, Your Majesty.
Now you fled to the Huns because of their defeat. There is no serious crime. You should come and submit as soon as possible!
King Han Xin of Han wrote back: The emperor promoted me from a commoner in the lanes and made me king in the south. This is a great honor for me.
In the battle to defend Xingyang, I could not die to be loyal to him, so I was imprisoned by Xiang Yu. This is my first crime.
When the Xiongnu invaded Mayi, I could not hold on to the city and surrendered. This is my second crime.
Now instead, he leads troops for the enemy, fights with the general, and fights for life in the blink of an eye.
This is my third crime. Wen Zhong and Fan Li did not have a single crime, but after they succeeded, one was killed and the other fled; now I have committed three crimes against the emperor, and I still want to survive in the world. This is the reason why Wu Zixu was killed in Wu State.
Now I am running for my life and hiding in the valley, living by begging from the barbarians every day. My desire to return is just like a paralyzed person who never forgets to walk upright, or a blind person who never forgets to open his eyes to see, but the situation does not allow it.
So the two armies fought, and General Chai Tu Ping joined the city and killed King Han Xin of Han.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
信之入匈奴，与太子俱；及至穨当城，生子，因名曰穨当。
韩太子亦生子，命曰婴。
至孝文十四年，穨当及婴率其众降汉。
汉封穨当为弓高侯，婴为襄城侯。
吴楚军时，弓高侯功冠诸将。
传子至孙，孙无子，失侯。
婴孙以不敬失侯。
穨当孽孙韩嫣，贵幸，名富显於当世。
其弟说，再封，数称将军，卒为案道侯。
子代，岁馀坐法死。
後岁馀，说孙曾拜为龙嵒侯，续说後。
卢绾者，丰人也，与高祖同里。
卢绾亲与高祖太上皇相爱，及生男，高祖、卢绾同日生，里中持羊酒贺两家。及高祖、卢绾壮，俱学书，又相爱也。
里中嘉两家亲相爱，生子同日，壮又相爱，复贺两家羊酒。
translation: 
When Han Xin took refuge with the Xiongnu, he went with his prince. When they arrived at the city of Dandang, they gave birth to another son, named him Dandang.
Prince Han also gave birth to a son, named Ying.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Han Daidang and Han Ying led their men to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
In the Han Dynasty, Han Daidang was granted the title of Marquis of Gonggao, and Han Ying was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangcheng.
When quelling the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms of Wu and Chu, Gong Gaohou's military merit exceeded that of other generals.
The title was passed from son to grandson, and his grandson had no sons, so the marquis was cancelled.
Han Ying's grandson was dismissed as a marquis for being guilty of disrespect.
Han Yan, the grandson of Han Dai who was born as a concubine, had a distinguished status and was very favored by the emperor. His fame and wealth were both prominent in the world.
His younger brother Han Yue was once again granted the title of Marquis, and was appointed as a general several times, and was finally granted the title of Case Daohou.
The son inherited the title of marquis and was executed for breaking the law more than a year later.
More than a year later, Han Shuo's grandson Han Zeng was named Long'ehou and inherited Han Shuo's title.
Lu Wan was from Fengyi, the same hometown as Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Lu Wan's father and Gaozu's father were very close, and when it came time to give birth to a son, Han Gaozu and Lu Wan were born on the same day. The villagers brought sheep wine to the two families to congratulate them. When Gaozu and Lu Wan grew up, they studied together and became very close.
The villagers saw that the fathers of the two families were very close friends. Their sons were born on the same day and became very close when they grew up. They once again came to congratulate them with sheep wine.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
高祖为布衣时，有吏事辟匿，卢绾常随出入上下。及高祖初起沛，卢绾以客从，入汉中为将军，常侍中。
从东击项籍，以太尉常从，出入卧内，衣被饮食赏赐，群臣莫敢望，虽萧曹等，特以事见礼，至其亲幸，莫及卢绾。
绾封为长安侯。
长安，故咸阳也。
汉五年冬，以破项籍，乃使卢绾别将，与刘贾击临江王共尉，破之。
七月还，从击燕王臧荼，臧荼降。
高祖已定天下，诸侯非刘氏而王者七人。
欲王卢绾，为群臣觖望。
及虏臧荼，乃下诏诸将相列侯，择群臣有功者以为燕王。
群臣知上欲王卢绾，皆言曰： 太尉长安侯卢绾常从平定天下，功最多，可王燕。
诏许之。
汉五年八月，乃立虏绾为燕王。诸侯王得幸莫如燕王。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu was a commoner, he was chased by officials and needed to hide. Lu Wan always accompanied him, running around. When Emperor Gaozu raised troops from Pei County, Lu Wan accompanied him as a guest. After arriving in Hanzhong, he served as a general and was always by his side.
When he followed Gaozu to attack Xiang Yu in the east, he had the status of Taiwei and could go in and out of Gaozu's bedroom. He was given generous rewards in terms of clothing, clothing and food. No other minister could match him. Even Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were only treated politely because of their merits. As for being favored by people, no one could match Lu Wan.
Lu Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Chang'an.
Chang'an is the original Xianyang.
In the winter of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu had been defeated, so he sent Lu Wan to lead another army to attack Linjiang King Gongwei together with Liu Jia, and defeated him.
In July, he returned triumphantly and followed the emperor to attack Yan King Zang Tu, who surrendered.
After Emperor Gaozu brought peace to the world, there were seven princes who were not named Liu but were granted the title of king.
Emperor Gaozu originally wanted to make Lu Wan king, but he was afraid that the officials would be resentful and dissatisfied.
After capturing Zang Tu, he issued an edict to confer the title of marquis on the generals and ministers, and selected meritorious officials among the ministers to confer the title of King of Yan.
All the civil and military officials knew that the emperor wanted to make Lu Wan king, so they all said in unison: Lu Wan, the Taiwei Marquis of Chang'an, often followed the emperor to bring peace to the world, and he made the most contributions, so he can be named King of Yan.
The emperor issued an edict and approved it.
In August of the fifth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Lu Wan was appointed King of Yan. No one among the princes and kings was as favored as King Yan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
汉十一年秋，陈豨反代地，高祖如邯郸击豨兵，燕王绾亦击其东北。
当是时，陈豨使王黄求救匈奴。
燕王绾亦使其臣张胜於匈奴，言豨等军破。
张胜至胡，故燕王臧茶子衍出亡在胡，见张胜曰： 公所以重於燕者，以习胡事也。
燕所以久存者，以诸侯数反，兵连不决也。
今公为燕欲急灭豨等，豨等已尽，次亦至燕，公等亦且为虏矣。
公何不令燕且缓陈豨而与胡和？
事宽，得长王燕；即有汉急，可以安国。
张胜以为然，乃私令匈奴助豨等击燕。
燕王绾疑张胜与胡反，上书请族张胜。
胜还，具道所以为者。
燕王寤，乃诈论它人，脱胜家属，使得为匈奴间，而阴使范齐之陈豨所，欲令久亡，连兵勿决。
汉十二年，东击黥布，豨常将兵居代，汉使樊哙击斩豨。
其裨将降，言燕王绾使范齐通计谋於豨所。
translation: 
In the autumn of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled in Dai. Emperor Gaozu went to Handan to attack Chen Xi's army. King Lu Wan of Yan also led an army to attack Chen Xi's northeast.
At this time, Chen Xi sent Wang Huang to ask for help from the Xiongnu.
King Lu Wan of Yan also sent his subordinate Zhang Sheng to envoy the Xiongnu, claiming that the troops of Chen Xi and others had been defeated.
After Zhang Sheng arrived in the Xiongnu, Zang Yan, the son of Zang Tu, the former king of Yan, fled to the Xiongnu. When he saw Zhang Sheng, he said: "The reason why you are in important positions in Yan is because you are familiar with Xiongnu affairs."
The reason why the Yan State was able to exist for a long time was because the princes rebelled many times and wars continued year after year.
Now you want to eliminate Chen Xi and others as soon as possible for the Yan State, but after Chen Xi and others are eliminated, it will be the turn of the Yan State, and your group will also become prisoners.
Why don't you let Yan postpone the attack on Chen Xi and make peace with the Xiongnu?
The postponement of the war allowed Lu Wan to remain King of Yan for a long time. If there was an emergency in the Han Dynasty, it could also be used to stabilize the country.
Zhang Sheng believed that what he said was right, so he secretly asked the Xiongnu to help Chen Xi attack Yan.
King Lu Wan of Yan suspected that Zhang Sheng was colluding with the Xiongnu to rebel, so he wrote to the emperor requesting that Zhang Sheng's entire family be executed.
Zhang Sheng returned and told Lu Wan all the reasons for doing this.
When Lu Wan came to his senses, he found some substitutes and executed them, freed Zhang Sheng's family members and made Zhang Sheng a spy for the Huns. He also secretly sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi's place, hoping to make him defect away for a long time, so that the war would continue year after year.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, during the Eastern Campaign against Yingbu, Chen Kuai often led his troops to station in Dai. The Han Dynasty sent Fan Kuai to attack Chen Kuai and kill him.
One of his lieutenants surrendered and said that King Lu Wan of Yan sent Fan Qi to Chen Xi to exchange information and discuss plans.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
高祖使使召卢绾，绾称病。
上又使辟阳侯审食其、御史大夫赵尧往迎燕王，因验问左右。
绾愈恐，闭匿，谓其幸臣曰： 非刘氏而王，独我与长沙耳。
往年春，汉族淮阴，夏，诛彭越，皆吕后计。
今上病，属任吕后。
吕后妇人，专欲以事诛异姓王者及大功臣。
乃遂称病不行。
其左右皆亡匿。
语颇泄，辟阳侯闻之，归具报上，上益怒。
又得匈奴降者，降者言张胜亡在匈奴，为燕使。
於是上曰： 卢绾果反矣！
使樊哙击燕。
燕王绾悉将其宫人家属骑数千居长城下，侯伺，幸上病愈，自入谢。
四月，高祖崩，卢绾遂将其众亡入匈奴，匈奴以为东胡卢王。
绾为蛮夷所侵夺，常思复归。
居岁馀，死胡中。
高后时，卢绾妻子亡降汉，会高后病，不能见，舍燕邸，为欲置酒见之。
高祖竟崩，不得见。
卢绾妻亦病死。
孝景中六年，卢绾孙他之，以东胡王降，封为亚谷侯。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu sent an envoy to summon Lu Wan to Beijing, but Lu Wan refused to go because he was ill.
The emperor also sent the Marquis of Piyang to review the food, and Zhao Yao, the imperial censor, went to greet King Yan, and also questioned King Yan's ministers.
Lu Wan was even more frightened and couldn't hide behind closed doors. He said to his favorite ministers: The only ones who were named kings without the surname Liu are me, Lu Wan, and Wu Rui, the king of Changsha.
Last spring, the Han Dynasty executed the entire family of Huaiyin Marquis Han Xin, and in the summer, they killed Peng Yue. This was Empress Lu's plan.
Now the emperor was seriously ill and handed over all state affairs to Queen Lu.
And Queen Lu was a woman who always wanted to find an excuse to kill princes, kings with different surnames and ministers with high achievements.
So Lu Wan still refused to go to Beijing, claiming to be ill.
Lu Wan's subordinates and ministers all fled and hid.
But some of Lu Wan's words leaked out. Marquis Piyang heard about it and reported all this to the emperor, who became even more angry.
Later, the Han Dynasty got some surrendered Huns and said that Zhang Sheng had fled to the Huns and was the envoy of King Yan.
So the emperor said: Lu Wan has really rebelled!
He sent Fan Kuai to attack Yan.
King Lu Wan of Yan settled all his family members and thousands of cavalry under the Great Wall, waiting for an opportunity, hoping that after the emperor recovered from his illness, he would come to Beijing to apologize in person.
In April, Emperor Gaozu passed away, and Lu Wan led his men to flee to the Huns, who named him King of Donghulu.
Lu Wan was invaded and plundered by the Huns, and always wanted to return to the Han Dynasty.
More than a year later, Lu Wan died in Xiongnu.
When he was the Queen of Gao, Lu Wan's wife and children escaped from the Xiongnu and returned to the Han Dynasty. Just as the Queen of Gao was seriously ill and could not see each other, they lived in King Yan's palace in Beijing and planned to hold a banquet to see each other after they recovered from the illness.
But Empress Gao passed away unexpectedly and could not meet.
Lu Wan's wife also died of illness.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Lu Tazhi, the grandson of Lu Wan, surrendered to the Han Dynasty as King of Donghu and was named Marquis of Yagu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
陈豨者，宛朐人也，不知始所以得从。
及高祖七年冬，韩王信反，入匈奴，上至平城还，乃封豨为列侯，以赵相国将监赵、代边兵，边兵皆属焉。
豨常告归过赵，赵相周昌见豨宾客随之者千馀乘，邯郸官舍皆满。
豨所以待宾客布衣交，皆出客下。
豨还之代，周昌乃求入见。
见上，具言豨宾客盛甚，擅兵於外数岁，恐有变。
上乃令人覆案豨客居代者财物诸不法事，多连引豨。
豨恐，阴令客通使王黄、曼丘臣所。
及高祖十年七月，太上皇崩，使人召豨，豨称病甚。
九月，遂与王黄等反，自立为代王，劫略赵、代。
上闻，乃赦赵、代吏人为豨所诖误劫略者，皆赦之。上自往，至邯郸，喜曰： 豨不南据漳水，北守邯郸，知其无能为也。
赵相奏斩常山守、尉，曰： 常山二十五城，豨反，亡其二十城。
translation: 
Chen Xi was from Wanqu, and he didn't know why he followed Gaozu in the first place.
In the winter of the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Han Xin of Han rebelled and fled to the Xiongnu. The emperor returned to Pingcheng and made Chen Xi a marquis. As the prime minister of Zhao State, he led the border defense troops of Zhao State and Dai State. The troops guarding the border in this area were under his jurisdiction.
Chen Xi once asked for leave to return home. When passing through the State of Zhao, Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao State, saw that Chen Xi's accompanying guests had more than a thousand cars and filled all the official residences in Handan.
Chen Xi treated his guests with the same etiquette among common people, and he was always humble and respectful, and he treated others with humility.
When Chen Xi returned to Dai, Zhou Chang asked to come to Beijing to see him.
After meeting the emperor, he told the whole story that Chen Xi had many guests and had been in sole control of the military for several years. He was afraid that something might happen.
The emperor ordered people to investigate Chen Xi's guests for their violations of laws and regulations regarding property and property, many of which implicated Chen Xi.
Chen Xi was very frightened and secretly sent guests to Wang Huang and Manqiu Chen to inform them.
In July of the tenth year of Emperor Gaozu, the Supreme Emperor passed away. The emperor sent someone to summon Chen Wei to Beijing, but Chen Wei said that his condition was serious.
In September, he rebelled with Wang Huang and others, proclaimed himself the king of Dai, and plundered Zhao and Dai two places.
After the emperor heard about it, he pardoned all Zhao and Dai officials who were implicated by Chen Xi and committed plunder. The emperor went there in person and said happily after arriving at Handan: "Chen Xi will not occupy Zhangshui in the south and guard Handan in the north. From this we know that he will not do anything."
Zhao Xiangguo submitted a memorial requesting that the governors and lieutenants of Changshan be beheaded, saying: Changshan had a total of twenty-five cities, but Chen Xi rebelled and lost twenty of them.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
上问曰： 守、尉反乎？
对曰： 不反。
上曰： 是力不足也。
赦之，复以为常山守、尉。
上问周昌曰： 赵亦有壮士可令将者乎？
对曰： 有四人。
四人谒，上谩骂曰： 竖子能为将乎？
四人惭伏。
上封之各千户，以为将。
左右谏曰： 从入蜀、汉，伐楚，功未遍行，今此何功而封？
上曰： 非若所知！
陈豨反，邯郸以北皆豨有，吾以羽檄徵天下兵，未有至者，今唯独邯郸中兵耳。
吾胡爱四千户封四人，不以慰赵子弟！
皆曰： 善。
於是上曰： 陈豨将谁？ 曰： 王黄、曼丘臣，皆故贾人。
上曰： 吾知之矣。 乃各以千金购黄、臣等。
translation: 
The emperor asked: Have the county guards and county lieutenants rebelled?
Zhao Xiangguo replied: No rebellion.
The emperor said: This is because of insufficient troops.
They were pardoned and their duties as captains were restored.
The emperor asked Zhou Chang: Does Zhao still have generals who can lead troops to fight?
Zhou Chang replied: There are four people.
Then these four people were asked to meet the emperor. When the emperor saw it, he cursed: Can you boys lead troops to fight?
The four people lay on the ground in shame.
However, the emperor still granted each of them a thousand households and appointed them as generals.
The ministers admonished and advised: "Many people followed you into Shu County and Hanzhong, and then conquered Western Chu. They had meritorious service but were not generally rewarded. What merits do these people have now and why should they be rewarded?"
The emperor said: This is beyond what you can understand!
Chen Xi rebelled and occupied everything north of Handan. I sent an emergency proclamation to recruit troops from various places, but no one has arrived yet. The only troops available now are from Handan.
Why should I begrudge the four thousand households granted to four people and not use it to appease the young people of Zhao! All the ministers on the left and right said, "Okay."
So the emperor asked again: Who are Chen Xi's generals?
The left and right people replied: Wang Huang and Manqiu Chen were both merchants in the past. The emperor said: I understand.
So each offered a thousand gold rewards to buy the heads of Wang Huang, Manchuchen and others.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
十一年冬，汉兵击斩陈豨将侯敞、王黄於曲逆下，破豨将张春於聊城，斩首万馀。
太尉勃入定太原、代地。
十二月，上自击东垣，东垣不下，卒骂上；东垣降，卒骂者斩之，不骂者黥之。
更命东垣为真定。
王黄、曼丘臣其麾下受购赏之，皆生得，以故陈豨军遂败。
上还至洛阳。
上曰： 代居常山北，赵乃从山南有之，远。
乃立子恆为代王，都中都，代、雁门皆属代。
高祖十二年冬，樊哙军卒追斩豨於灵丘。
太史公曰：韩信、卢绾非素积德累善之世，徼一时权变，以诈力成功，遭汉初定，故得列地，南面称孤。
内见疑彊大，外倚蛮貊以为援，是以日疏自危，事穷智困，卒赴匈奴，岂不哀哉！
陈豨，梁人，其少时数称慕魏公子；及将军守边，招致宾客而下士，名声过实。
周昌疑之，疵瑕颇起，惧祸及身，邪人进说，遂陷无道。
translation: 
In the winter of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the Han army attacked and killed Chen Xi's generals Hou Chang and Wang Huang at Quni City. They also defeated Chen Xi's general Zhang Chun in Liaocheng, killing more than 10,000 people.
Taiwei Zhou Bo marched and pacified Taiyuan and Daijun.
In December, the emperor personally led an army to attack Dongyuan, but failed to capture it. The rebel soldiers insulted the emperor. Soon Dongyuan surrendered. All soldiers who insulted the emperor were beheaded, and other soldiers who did not insult were sentenced to tattoos and tattoos on their foreheads.
Change Dongyuan's name to Zhending.
All Wang Huang and Manqiuchen's men who were offered rewards were captured alive, so Chen Xi's army was completely defeated.
The emperor returned to Luoyang.
The emperor said: Daijun is located to the north of Changshan Mountain, but Zhao Guo controls it from the south of the mountain. It is too far away.
So he named his son Liu Yuan the king of Dai, made Zhongdu the capital, and Daijun and Yanmen were all subordinate to Daiguo.
In the winter of the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Fan Kuai's soldiers chased Chen Kuai to Lingqiu and beheaded him.
Tai Shigong said: Han Xin and Lu Wan were not a family that had always accumulated good deeds. Instead, they were lucky enough to improvise and succeeded through deception and violence. Just as the Han Dynasty was just established, they were able to divide the territory and make the south the king.
Internally, it was suspected because of its strong power, and externally, it relied on foreigners for assistance. Therefore, he was increasingly alienated by the emperor, found himself in danger, had no choice but to surrender to the Huns. Isn't it sad?
Chen Xi was a native of Liang. When he was young, he always praised and admired Wei Gongzi Xinlingjun. Later, he led the army to guard the border, gathered guests, and treated virtuous corporals, and his reputation exceeded his actual status.
Zhou Chang doubted him, and many mistakes occurred from here. Fearing that disaster would come, the treacherous villain took the opportunity to speak again, and finally fell into a treasonous situation.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
於戏悲夫！
夫计之生孰成败於人也深矣！
translation: 
Oh, how sad!
It can be seen from this that the maturity and success or failure of the plan have a profound impact on a person!


