Chunk 0: 
original: 
张苍，阳武人也，好书律历。
秦时为御史，主柱下方书。
有罪，亡归。
及沛公略地过阳武，苍以客从攻南阳。
苍当斩，解衣伏质，身长大，肥白如瓠，时王陵见而怪其美士，乃言沛公，赦勿斩。
遂西入武关，至咸阳。
沛公立为汉王，入汉中，还定三秦。
陈馀击走常山王张耳，耳归汉。汉以苍为常山守。
从韩信击赵，苍得陈馀。
赵地已平，汉王以苍为代相，备边冠。
已而徙为赵相，相赵王耳。
耳卒，相其子敖。
复徙相代。
燕王臧荼反，苍以代相从攻荼有功，封为北平侯，食邑千二百户。
迁为计相，一月，更以列侯为主计四岁。
是时，萧何为相国，而苍乃自秦时为柱下御史，明习天下图书计籍，又善用算律历，故令苍以列侯居相府，领主郡国上计者。
黥布反，汉立皇子长为淮南王，而苍相之。
translation: 
Zhang Cang, a native of Yangwu, Henan, was fond of writing, music and calendars.
In the Qin Dynasty, he served as censor and was in charge of household registration albums all over the world.
He fled back to his hometown because he broke the law.
When Pei Gong was marching through Yangwu, Zhang Cang followed Pei Gong as a guest to attack Nanyang.
When Zhang Cang was about to be executed, he took off his clothes and leaned on the chopping block of the torture instrument, revealing his tall figure and fat muscles as white as gourds. At that time, Wang Ling saw Zhang Cang and was very surprised by this beauty, so he told Pei Gong that he would not be punished by beheading if he was pardoned.
So he entered Wuguan in the west and arrived in Xianyang.
Pei Gong became the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and returned to the army to pacify the Sanqin area.
Chen Yu drove away Zhang Er, king of Changshan, and Zhang Er defected to the king of Han. The king of Han appointed Zhang Cang as the governor of Changshan County.
Following Han Xin to attack Zhao, Zhang Cang captured Chen Yu.
After the Zhao area was pacified, the King of Han appointed Zhang Cang as acting prime minister to guard against border bandits.
Soon he was moved to the state of Zhao and became the prime minister of Zhao Wang Zhang Er.
Zhang Er died, and Zhang Cang became his son Zhang Ao, the prime minister.
Later, he was appointed as the Prime Minister of Daiguo.
King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled, and Zhang Cang served as the Prime Minister and accompanied the army to attack Zang Lai. He was granted the title of Marquis of Beiping and was granted a settlement of 1,200 households.
Zhang Cang changed his plan, and one month later, he made Liehou the leader for four years.
At that time, Xiao He was appointed as the prime minister, and Zhang Cang had been the censor under the pillar since the Qin Dynasty. He was familiar with the world's atlas and household registration, and was good at calculating the calendar. Therefore, Zhang Cang was appointed to serve in the prime minister's mansion as a lieutenant, in charge of the books sent by the county.
Ying Bu rebelled, and the Han Dynasty established the prince Liu Chang as the King of Huainan, and Zhang Cang as the Prime Minister of Huainan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
十四年，迁为御史大夫。
周昌者，沛人也。
其从兄苛，秦时皆为泗水卒史。
及高祖起沛，击破泗水守监，于是苛、昌以卒史从沛公，沛公以昌为职志，苛为客。
从入关破秦。
沛公立为汉王，以苛为御史大夫，昌为中尉。
汉三年，楚围汉王荥阳急，汉王出去，而使苛守荥阳城。
楚破荥阳城，欲令苛将，苛骂曰： 若趣降汉王！
不然，今为虏矣！
项羽怒，亨苛。
汉王于是拜昌为御史大夫。
常从击破项籍。
六年，与萧、曹等俱封，为汾阴侯。
苛子成以父死事，封为高景侯。
昌为人强力，敢直言，自萧、曹等皆卑下之。
昌尝燕入奏事，高帝方拥戚姬，昌还走。
高帝逐得，骑昌项，上问曰： 我何如主也？
昌仰曰： 陛下即桀、纣之主也。
translation: 
After serving for fourteen years, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
Zhou Chang was from Peijun.
His cousin Zhou Ke and he were both soldiers of the Qin Dynasty in Surabaya.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised an army in Peixian County, he defeated the governor and supervisor of the Sishui County, so the two brothers Zhou Ke and Zhou Chang went to Pei Gong as soldiers. Pei Gong took Zhou Chang as the flag bearer and Zhou Ke as the guest in the tent.
Follow the army into the pass to reduce the Qin Dynasty.
Peigong was the king of Han, with Zhou Ke as the censor and Zhou Chang as the lieutenant.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, the Chu army surrounded the King of Han in Rongyang. The situation was critical. After the King of Han escaped, he asked Zhou Ke to defend Rongyang.
The Chu army defeated Rongyang and planned to appoint Zhou Ke as general. Zhou Ke scolded him and said: Surrender to the King of Han as soon as possible!
Otherwise, you will be a prisoner today!
Xiang Yu was furious and had Zhou Ke killed.
The king of Han then appointed Zhou Chang as the imperial censor.
He often followed the King of Han to defeat Xiang Yu.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Zhou Changyu Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were granted the title of Fenyin Marquis at the same time.
Zhou Ke's son Zhou Cheng was granted the title Gao Jinghou because of his father's death.
Zhou Chang was strong and upright, and dared to speak out. Officials from Xiao He and Cao Shen down were cautious and despicable towards him.
Zhou Chang once played an important role when Emperor Gao was having a banquet. Emperor Gao was hugging Qi Ji, and Zhou Chang retreated.
Emperor Gao caught up with Zhou Chang, rode on his neck and asked, "What kind of monarch am I?"
Zhou Lu raised his head and said: Your Majesty is the lord of Jie and Zhou.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
于是上笑之，然尤惮昌。
及高帝欲废太子，而立戚姬子如意为太子，大臣固争莫能得，上以留侯策止。
而昌庭争之强，上问其说，昌为人吃，又盛怒，曰： 臣口不能言，然臣期期知其不可。
陛下欲废太子，臣期期不奉诏。
上欣然而笑，即罢。
吕后侧耳于东箱听，见昌，为跪谢曰： 微君，太子几废。
是岁，戚姬子如意为赵王，年十岁，高祖忧万岁之后不全也。
赵尧为符玺御史，赵人方与公谓御史大夫周昌曰： 君之史赵尧年虽少，然奇士，君必异之，是且代君之位。
昌笑曰： 尧年少，刀笔吏耳，何至是乎！
居顷之，尧侍高祖，高祖独心不乐，悲歌，群臣不知上所以然。
尧进请问曰： 陛下所为不乐，非以赵王年少，而戚夫人与吕后有隙，备万岁之后而赵王不能自全乎？
translation: 
Then the emperor laughed, but he was still afraid of him.
At that time, Emperor Gao wanted to depose the crown prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi the crown prince. The ministers insisted on admonishing and arguing, but they failed. The emperor gave up because of his plan to keep Zhang Liang as a marquis.
However, Zhou Chang argued vigorously in the court. When the emperor asked him for his reasons, Zhou Chang was very angry and said: I know that I cannot tell you, but I have always known that I cannot do it.
Your Majesty wants to depose the crown prince, but I refuse to accept the order every time.
The emperor smiled happily and stopped deposing the prince.
Empress Lu eavesdropped in the Shuxiang room. When she saw Zhou Chang, she knelt down and thanked him, saying: Without your force, the prince would have been deposed.
This year, Qi Ji's son Ruyi became the king of Zhao, and he was only ten years old. Gaozu was worried that he would not be able to protect himself after his death.
Zhao Yao was serving as the imperial censor of Fuxi at that time. Fang Yugong, a native of Zhao, said to Zhou Chang, the imperial censor: Although your subordinate Zhao Yao is very young, he is a genius. You must pay special attention to him and let him replace you in the future.
Zhou Chang smiled and said: "Zhao Yao is young and is a small official with a sword and a pen. Why would you exalt him like this?"
Soon, Zhao Yao served Gaozu. Gaozu was alone and unhappy, humming tragic songs. The officials did not know why the emperor was like this.
Zhao Yao came in to say hello and asked: "Your Majesty is unhappy because King Zhao is young and Mrs. Qi is at odds with Empress Lu. Are you worried that King Zhao will not be able to protect himself after you live forever?"


Chunk 3: 
original: 
高祖曰： 我私忧之，不知所出。
尧曰： 陛下独为赵王置贵强相，及吕后、太子、群臣素所敬惮者乃可。
高祖曰： 然。
吾念之欲如是，而群臣谁可者？
尧曰： 御史大夫昌，其人坚忍伉直，自吕后、太子及大臣皆素严惮之。
独昌可。
高祖曰： 善。
于是召昌谓曰： 吾固欲烦公，公强为我相赵。
昌泣曰： 臣初起从陛下，陛下独奈何中道而弃之于诸侯乎？
高祖曰： 吾极知其左迁，然吾私忧赵，念非公无可者。
公不得已强行！
于是徙御史大夫昌为赵相。
既行久之，高祖持御史大夫印弄之，曰： 谁可以为御史大夫者？
孰视尧曰： 无以易尧。
遂拜尧为御史大夫。
尧亦前有军功食邑，及以御史大夫从击陈豨有功，封为江邑侯。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu said: I am privately worried and don’t know what strategy to use.
Zhao Yao said: Your Majesty only needs to arrange a noble and strong prime minister for King Zhao. He is someone who is always respected and feared by Empress Lu, the prince, and the ministers.
Emperor Gaozu said: That’s right.
This is what I want to do, but who among the ministers can do it?
Zhao Yao said: Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, is a strong and upright man. From Empress Lu to the crown prince, as well as the ministers, they are usually afraid of him.
Only Zhou Chang can.
Gaozu said: OK.
So he summoned Zhou Chang and said: I must trouble you, and you must be the prime minister for me.
Zhou Chang cried and said: I have followed your majesty from the beginning. Why did your majesty abandon me to the vassal kingdoms?
Emperor Gaozu said: I know very well that this is demoting you from the official position, but I am secretly worried about King Zhao. After much thought, I think you can't be in this position except you.
You'd better not refuse and force yourself to go and take up the post!
So Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, was appointed as the prime minister of Zhao.
Long after Zhou Chang left, Emperor Gaozu held the seal of the imperial censor and touched it and said: Who can be the imperial censor?
He looked at Zhao Yao carefully and said: No one can replace Zhao Yao.
So he worshiped Zhao Yao as the censor.
Zhao Yao also had military merits in the past and had food and towns. As a censor, he accompanied the army to attack Chen Jinji and was granted the title of Marquis of Jiangyi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
高祖崩，太后使使召赵王，其相昌令王称疾不行。
使者三反，昌曰： 高帝属臣赵王，王年少，窃闻太后怨戚夫人，欲召赵王并诛之。
臣不敢遣王，王且亦疾，不能奉诏。
太后怒，乃使使召赵相。
相至，谒太后，太后骂昌曰： 尔不知我之怨戚氏乎？
而不遣赵王！
昌既被征，高后使使召赵王。
王果来，至长安月余，见鸩杀。
昌谢病不朝见，三岁而薨，谥曰悼侯。
传子至孙意，有罪，国除。
景帝复封昌孙左车为安阳侯，有罪，国除。
初，赵尧既代周昌为御史大夫，高祖崩，事惠帝终世。
高后元年，怨尧前定赵王如意之画，乃抵尧罪，以广阿侯任敖为御史大夫。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu passed away, the Queen Mother sent envoys to summon King Zhao to the capital. Zhao Prime Minister Zhou Chang told King Zhao that he was ill and could not go.
The envoy returned to Zhao State for the third time. Zhou Chang said: Emperor Gao entrusted King Zhao to his protection. The king was young. He heard that the Queen Mother resented Madam Qi and wanted to summon King Zhao to kill him.
I dare not send King Zhao away. King Zhao is ill and cannot accept the imperial edict to go.
The Queen Mother was furious and sent envoys to summon Prime Minister Zhao.
When Prime Minister Zhao arrived in Beijing, he paid a visit to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother scolded Zhou Chang and said, "Don't you know that I hate the Qi family?"
He didn’t even send King Zhao here!
After Zhou Chang was summoned to Beijing, Empress Gao sent envoys to summon King Zhao.
As expected, King Zhao came to Beijing and was poisoned to death after arriving in Chang'an for more than a month.
Zhou Chang refused to go to court due to illness. He died three years later and was given the title of Mourning Hou.
It was passed down to the marquis to his son, and then to Sun Zhouyi, who violated the law and was removed from the marquis state.
Emperor Jing also made Zhou Chang's grandson Zhou Zuoche the Marquis of Anyang. He was removed from the Marquis State due to his crimes.
At the beginning, after Zhao Yao replaced Zhou Chang as the imperial censor, Emperor Gaozu died and served Emperor Hui until his death.
In the first year of Gaohou, Gaohou resented Zhao Yao for proposing a strategy to protect King Zhao Ruyi, so he convicted Zhao Yao and asked Guang'ahou to appoint Ao as the censor.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
任敖，沛人也，少为狱吏。
高祖尝避吏，吏系吕后，遇之不谨。
任敖素善高祖，怒，击伤主吕后吏。
及高祖初起，敖以客从为御史，守丰二岁。
高祖立为汉王，东击项羽，遨迁为上党守。
陈豨反，敖坚守，封为广阿侯，食邑千八百户。
高后时为御史大夫，三岁免。
孝文元年薨，谥曰懿侯。
传子至曾孙越人，坐为太常庙酒酸不敬，国除。
初任敖免，平阳侯曹窋代敖为御史大夫。
高后崩，与大臣共诛诸吕。
后坐事免，以淮南相张苍为御史大夫。
苍来绛侯等尊立孝文皇帝，四年，代灌婴为丞相。
汉兴二十余年，天下初定，公卿皆军吏。苍为计相时，绪正律历。
以高祖十月始至霸上，故因秦时本十月为岁首，不革。
推五德之运，以为汉当水德之时，上黑如故。
translation: 
Ren Ao, a native of Peijun, worked as a jailer when he was young.
Emperor Gaozu once escaped from the pursuit of officials. The officials captured Empress Lu and acted frivolously towards her.
Ren Ao always valued Gaozu, so he was furious and injured the minor official who was guarding Empress Lu.
When Emperor Gaozu started to raise troops, Ren Ao followed Zhidan as a guest and became the censor, and stayed in Fengdan for two years.
Zhisu became the king of election, marched eastward to attack Xiang Yu, and appointed Ao as the governor of Shangdang County.
Chen Xi rebelled, but Ren Ao held on and was granted the title of Marquis of Guang'a, with a settlement of 1,800 households.
After high school, he served as the imperial censor. Removed in three years.
Emperor Xiaowen died in the first year of his reign, and Mi was given the title Yihou.
The Marquis was passed on to his son, and then to his great-grandson Ren Yue. He was removed from the Marquis State because of the crime of being sour and disrespectful in the wine offered at the Taichang Temple.
At the beginning, Ren Ao was dismissed, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Zhuo replaced Ren Ao as the imperial censor.
After the death of Empress Gao, she and her ministers jointly annihilated the Lu family.
Later, he was dismissed from office for violating the law and appointed Huainan Prime Minister Zhang Cang as the imperial censor.
Zhang Cang, Jianghou Zhou Bo and others established Emperor Xiaowen as emperor. Four years later, they replaced Guan Ying as prime minister.
The Han Dynasty had been established for more than 20 years, and the world had just been peaceful. All the officials were military officers. When Zhang Cang was appointed as the Prime Minister, the calendar was corrected.
Since Emperor Gaozu arrived at Bashang in October, he continued to use the Qin calendar with October as the beginning of the year without any changes.
Calculating the movement of the five elements, it is believed that Mo is in the realm of water virtue and advocates black, just like the Qin Dynasty.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
吹律调乐，入之音声，及以比定律令。
若百工，天下作程品。
至于为丞相，卒就之。故汉家言律历者本张苍。
苍凡好书，无所不观，无所不通，而尤邃律历。
苍德安国侯王陵，及贵，父事陵。
陵死后，苍为丞相，洗沐，常先朝陵夫人上食，然后敢归家。
苍为丞相十余年，鲁人公孙臣上书，陈终始五德传，言 汉土德时，其符黄龙见，当改正朔，易服色 。
事下苍，苍以为非是，罢之。
其后黄龙见成纪，于是文帝召公孙臣以为博士，草立土德时历制度，更元年。
苍由此自绌，谢病称老。苍任人为中候，大为奸利，上以为让，苍遂病免。
孝景五年薨，谥曰文侯。
传子至孙类，有罪，国除。
初苍父长不满五尺，苍长八尺余，苍子复长八尺，及孙类长六尺余。
苍免相后，口中无齿，食乳，女子为乳母。
妻妾以百数，尝孕者不复幸。
translation: 
Adjust the sound of the music, set the rhythm, and formulate laws and regulations.
It is like a craftsman’s standard of measurement, which sets the rules for making utensils.
Eventually he reached the position of prime minister. Therefore, those who talked about laws and regulations in the Han Dynasty took Zhang Cang as the standard.
Zhang Cang likes books. He can read everything and knows everything, especially the music and calendar.
Zhang Cang was grateful for Wang Ling, the Marquis of Anguo, for saving his life. After he became a nobleman, he served Wang Ling like a father.
After Wang Ling's death, Zhang Cang became prime minister. During his vacation, he often visited Mrs. Ling and served her dinner before returning home.
Zhang Cang had been prime minister for more than ten years. Gongsun Chen from Lu State wrote a letter stating the order of transmission of the Five Elements. He said that when Han ascended to virtue, it should coincide with the appearance of the Yellow Dragon, and the month at the beginning of the year should be changed and the color of sacrificial clothing should be changed.
The matter was handed over to Zhang Cang. Zhang Cang thought it was wrong and canceled it.
Later, Huanglong appeared in the Chengji period, so Emperor Wen summoned Gongsun Chen as a doctor, established Tu De and the calendar system, and changed the first year.
Zhang Cang therefore devalued himself and claimed that he was old and sick. Zhang Cang recommended a middle-ranking official who committed treacherous things for profit. The emperor blamed Zhang Cang, and Zhang Cang was dismissed from office due to illness.
Xiaojing died in the fifth year, and Mi was given the title Wenhou.
The title of marquis was passed down to his descendants until his grandson Zhang Lei. Due to crimes, the marquis state was abolished.
At first, Zhang Cang's father was less than five feet tall. Zhang Cang is eight feet tall, Zhang Cang's children are eight feet tall, and his grandson Zhang Lei is over six feet tall.
After Zhang Cang was exempted from the phase, there were no teeth in his mouth. He ate human milk and used women as wet nurses.
There are many wives and concubines, and those who are pregnant are no longer favored.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
年百余岁乃卒。
著书十八篇，言阴阳律历事。
申屠嘉，梁人也。
以材官蹶张从高帝击项籍，迁为队率。
从击黥布，为都尉。
孝惠时，为淮阳守。
孝文元年，举故以二千石从高祖者，悉以为关内侯，食邑二十四人，而嘉食邑五百户。
十六年，迁为御史大夫。
张苍免相，文帝以皇后弟窦广国贤有行，欲相之，曰： 恐天下以吾私广国。
久念不可，而高帝时大臣余见无可者，乃以御史大夫嘉为丞相，因故邑封为故安侯。
嘉为人廉直，门不受私谒。
是时，太中大夫邓通方爱幸，赏赐累巨万。
文帝常燕饮通家，其宠如是。
是时，嘉入朝而通居上旁，有怠慢之礼。
translation: 
He lived about a hundred years before passing away.
He wrote eighteen chapters about yin and yang, music, and calendar matters.
Shen Tujia was from Liang.
As a strong crossbowman, he followed Gao Tong to attack the fallen type, and was later promoted to the leader of the team.
He followed Emperor Gao to attack Yingbu and served as a subordinate.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, he served as the governor of Huaiyang County.
In the first year of Xiaowen, the original two thousand stone-level officials were elected to follow Emperor Gao in the expedition. All of them were given the title of Marquis of Guannei. Twenty-four people were granted the title, and 500 households in the city were slaughtered.
In the 16th year, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
After Zhang Cang was removed from the post of prime minister, Emperor Wen planned to appoint Bao Guangguo, the queen's younger brother, as prime minister because of his virtuous character. He also said: I'm afraid people in the world will say that I favor Guangguo because of my personal relationship.
After long consideration, it was decided that it was not possible, and there was no living minister who could serve as the prime minister, so he appointed Shentujia, the imperial censor, as the prime minister, and named him Gu'anbao after his original food town.
Shen Tujia is an upright person and does not accept private visits at home.
At that time, Deng Tong, the Taizhong doctor, was favored and received hundreds of millions of rewards.
Emperor Wen often went to Deng Tong's house to drink in his spare time, and he was so favored.
When Shen Tujia entered the dynasty in this temple, Deng usually stayed next to the emperor, showing signs of neglect and disrespect.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
嘉奏事毕，因言曰： 陛下幸爱群臣则富贵之，至于朝廷之礼，不可以不肃！
上曰： 君勿言，吾私之。
罢朝坐府中，嘉为檄召通诣丞相府，不来，且斩通。
通恐，入言上。
上曰： 汝第往，吾今使人召若。
通至丞相府，免冠，徒跣，顿首谢嘉。
嘉坐自如，弗为礼，责曰： 夫朝廷者，高皇帝之朝廷也，通小臣，戏殿上，大不敬，当斩。
史今行斩之！
通顿首，首尽出血，不解。
上度丞相已困通，使使持节召通，而谢丞相： 此语弄臣，君释之。
邓通既至，为上泣曰： 丞相几杀臣。
嘉为丞相五岁，文帝崩，孝景即位。
translation: 
After Shen Tujia finished the divination, he immediately said: Your Majesty loves his ministers and makes them rich and noble. As for court etiquette, it must not be lax!
The emperor said: "Don't say anything. I will warn him privately."
After retiring from the court, Shen Tujia sat in the Prime Minister's Mansion and personally wrote a message to summon Deng Tong to come to the manor. If he did not come, Deng Tong would be executed immediately.
Deng Tong was frightened and went to court to tell Zaoshang.
The emperor said: Just go, I will send someone to call you out immediately.
When Deng Tong arrived at the Prime Minister's Mansion, he took off his hat and went barefoot, kowtowed to apologize to Shen Tujia.
Shen Tujia sat calmly as usual, without any courtesy to the guests, and scolded Zhen, saying: "The imperial court is the imperial court of Emperor Gao. It is the greatest disrespect for a minor minister to play in the palace and should be beheaded."
Prime Minister Shi went to execute the beheading!
Deng Tong kowtowed, and blood flowed from his head, but it still didn't stop.
The emperor estimated that the prime minister had already punished Deng Tong, so he sent an envoy to recall Deng Tong with a talisman, thanked the prime minister, and said: "This man is my mocking minister, please let him go."
Deng Tong went to the palace, cried to the emperor, and said: The prime minister almost killed me.
Shen Tujia served as prime minister for five years, Emperor Wen died, and Emperor Jing ascended the throne.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
二年，晁错为内史，贵幸用事，诸法令多所请变更，议以適罚侵削诸侯，而丞相嘉自绌所言不用，疾错。
错为内史，门东出，不便，更穿一门，南出。
南出者，太上皇庙堧垣也。
嘉闻错穿宗庙垣，为奏请诛错。
客有语错，错恐，夜入宫上谒，自归上。
至朝，嘉请诛内史错。
上曰： 错所穿非真庙垣，乃外堧垣，故冗官居其中，且又我使为之，错无罪。
罢朝，嘉谓长史曰： 吾悔不先斩错乃请之，为错所卖！
至舍，因呕血而死。
谥曰节侯。
传子至孙臾，有罪，国除。
translation: 
In the second year, Chao Cuo was in office and was highly appreciated by Zaoshang. He proposed to change many laws and regulations, and also proposed punishments to weaken the power of the princes. However, Prime Minister Shen Tujia demoted himself and his words were not accepted. He hated Chao Cuo very much.
During Chao Cuo's tenure, it was inconvenient to enter and exit the east gate, so he opened another gate and entered and exited from the south.
Entering and exiting from the south, pass through the open space outside the inner wall and within the outer wall of Taishanghuang Temple.
Shen Tujia heard that Chao Cuo had passed through the ancestral temple wall and was preparing to petition Chao Cuo to be killed.
A guest told Chao Cuo in advance. Chao Cuo was so frightened that he went to the palace late at night to see the emperor and took the initiative to confess to the emperor.
The next day, when he went to court, Shen Tujia petitioned to kill Chao Cuo, the internal official.
The emperor said: What Chao Cuo opened was not the real temple wall, but the outer wall outside the inner wall, so that the officials could live in it. Besides, I asked him to do it, so Chao Cuo was not guilty.
After retiring from the court, Shen Tujia said to Chang Shi: I regret that I didn't kill him first and report later, but I was betrayed by Chao Cuo.
After returning home, he vomited blood and died.
Mi Hao Jiehou.
The marquis passed down to his son, and at Sun Shentu's time, the title and fiefdom were abolished due to crimes.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
自嘉死后，开封侯陶青、桃侯刘舍及武帝时柏至侯许昌、平棘侯薛泽、武强侯庄青翟、商陵侯赵周，皆以列侯继踵，齿齿廉谨，为丞相备员而已，无所能发明功名著于世者。
赞曰：张苍文好律历，为汉名相，而专遵用奉之《颛顼历》，何哉？
周昌，木强人也。
任敖以旧德用。
申屠嘉可谓刚毅守节，然无术学，殆与萧、曹、陈平异矣。
translation: 
Since the death of Shen Tujia, the Marquis of Kaifeng, Tao Qing, the Marquis of Tao, Liu She, and the Marquis of Shibai, Xuchang, the Marquis of Pingji, Xue Ze, the Marquis of Wuqiang, Zhuang Qingzhai, and the Marquis of Shanling, Zhao Zhou, have all succeeded as prime ministers as marquises. They are serious, honest, and cautious, but they are just prime ministers, and they have no inventions or achievements that are famous in the world.
Praise: Zhang Cang apparently liked the calendar and became a famous minister in the Han Dynasty, but he only respected the "Zhuanxu Calendar" of the Kui Dynasty. Why?
Dandan, strong and upright as wood and stone.
Yu Ao used his old favor to protect Dan Qiu.
Shen Tujia can be said to be resolute and upright, but he is uneducated and has no skills, and his knowledge is not as good as Gai He, Jiang Shen, Su Na and others.


