Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 3]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
管叔鲜、蔡叔度者，周文王子而武王弟也。
武王同母兄弟十人。
母曰太姒，文王正妃也。
其长子曰伯邑考，次曰武王发，次曰管叔鲜，次曰周公旦，次曰蔡叔度，次曰曹叔振铎，次曰成叔武，次曰霍叔处，次曰康叔封，次曰厓季载。
厓季载最少。同母昆弟十人，唯发、旦贤，左右辅文王，故文王舍伯邑考而以发为太子。
及文王崩而发立，是为武王。
伯邑考既已前卒矣。
武王已克殷纣，平天下，封功臣昆弟。
於是封叔鲜於管，封叔度於蔡：二人相纣子武庚禄父，治殷遗民。
封叔旦於鲁而相周，为周公。
封叔振铎於曹，封叔武於成，封叔处於霍。
康叔封、厓季载皆少，未得封。
武王既崩，成王少，周公旦专王室。
管叔、蔡叔疑周公之为不利於成王，乃挟武庚以作乱。
周公旦承成王命伐诛武庚，杀管叔，而放蔡叔，迁之，与车十乘，徒七十人从。
而分殷馀民为二：其一封微子启於宋，以续殷祀；其一封康叔为卫君，是为卫康叔。
封季载於厓。
厓季、康叔皆有驯行，於是周公举康叔为周司寇，厓季为周司空，以佐成王治，皆有令名於天下。
蔡叔度既迁而死。
其子曰胡，胡乃改行，率德驯善。
周公闻之，而举胡以为鲁卿士，鲁国治。
于是周公言于成王，复封胡于蔡，以奉蔡叔之祀，是为蔡仲。余五叔皆就国，无为天子吏者。
蔡仲卒，子蔡伯荒立。
蔡伯荒卒，子宫侯立。
宫侯卒，子厉侯立。
厉侯卒，子武侯立。
武侯之时，周厉王失国，奔彘，共和行政，诸侯多叛周。
武侯卒，子夷侯立。
translation: 
Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu were both sons of King Wen of Zhou and younger brothers of King Wu of Zhou.
There were ten brothers from the same mother of King Wu of Zhou.
Their mother's name was Taisi, who was King Wen's wife.
Her eldest son is Boyikao, followed by Wu Wangfa, Guan Shuxian, Zhou Gongdan, Cai Shudu, Cao Shuzhenduo, Cheng Shuwu, Huo Shuchu, Kang Shufeng, and the youngest is Ran Jizai.
Among the ten brothers, only Wu Wangfa and Zhou Gongdan were highly virtuous and talented, and they were the right-hand men to assist King Wen. Therefore, King Wen did not establish Boyikao, but made his second son Fa the crown prince.
After King Wen died, Prince Fa came to the throne and became King Wu.
Boyikao had passed away before this.
After King Wu defeated King Zhou of Yin and pacified the world, he granted great titles to his heroes and brothers.
So he enfeoffed the administrative land to Shuxian and the Cai land to Shudu; and made them ministers to the father of Wu Genglu, the son of Zhou, to govern the remnants of the Yin people together.
He enfeoffed the land of Lu to Shu Dan, and at the same time made Shu Dan the prime minister of the Zhou Dynasty, so he was called Zhou Gong.
Shu Zhenduo was granted the title of Cao Di, Shu Wu was granted the title of Cheng Di, and Shu Chu was granted the title of Huo Di.
Uncle Kang and Ran Jizai were young at that time, so they were not awarded the title.
After King Wu died, King Cheng succeeded to the throne at a young age, and Duke Zhou took control of the country.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected that Duke Zhou's actions were not conducive to becoming king, so they supported Wu Geng in the rebellion.
Zhou Gongdan conquered the rebels according to the decree of King Cheng, executed Wu Geng, killed Guan Shu and exiled Cai Shu. During the exile, Cai Shu was only given a carriage and seventy prisoners as his entourage.
The survivors of the Southern Dynasties were also divided into two parts: part of the Song Dynasty was granted to Wei Ziqi to continue the sacrifices of the Yin Dynasty; and part of the Wei Dynasty was established to establish the Wei Kingdom and appointed Uncle Kang as the king of the Wei Kingdom, which was Uncle Kang of Wei.
He also entrusted the land of Ran to Ji Zai.
Ran Ji and Uncle Kang had good conduct, so Duke Zhou recommended Uncle Kang to be the Sikong of the Zhou Dynasty, and Ran Ji to be the Sikong of the Zhou Dynasty. The two assisted King Cheng in governing the country, and their reputation spread throughout the world.
Cai Shudu died after being exiled.
His son's name was Hu. Hu changed his father's old behavior, followed moral precepts, and practiced good deeds.
After Duke Zhou heard about it, he recommended him to be a minister of the state of Lu. The state of Lu was governed very well.
The Duke of Zhou suggested to King Cheng that Hu should be granted a title in the land of Cai, in order to perform the annual sacrificial ceremony for Uncle Cai, who was Cai Zhong. The other five uncles returned to their respective kingdoms and did not serve as officials in the Zhou court.
Cai Zhong died and his son Cai Bohuang succeeded him.
Cai Bohuang died and his son Gonghou succeeded to the throne.
Gong Hou died and his son Li Hou succeeded to the throne.
Marquis Li died and his son Marquis Wu succeeded him.
When Wuhou was on the throne, King Zhou Li lost his throne and fled to the land of Hu. Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao were in power together, and many princes rebelled against the Zhou family.
Wuhou died and his son Yihou succeeded to the throne.
summary:
The lineage and history of the sons of King Wen of Zhou, focusing on Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu, younger brothers of King Wu. King Wu had ten brothers from the same mother, Taisi. Among them, only King Wu and Zhou Gongdan were virtuous and talented, leading King Wen to make Fa (King Wu) crown prince. After King Wu conquered the Yin, he enfeoffed lands to his brothers: Shuxian received Guan, Shudu received Cai, and they were made ministers to Wu Geng, son of the Yin king. Zhou Gongdan was enfeoffed in Lu and served as prime minister. Other brothers received Cao, Cheng, and Huo. Kang Shu and Ran Jizai were too young for titles.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
十九年，成侯卒，子声侯产立。
声侯十五年卒，子元侯立。
元侯六年卒，子侯齐立。
侯齐四年，楚惠王灭蔡，蔡侯齐亡，蔡遂绝祀。后陈灭三十三年。
伯邑考，其后不知所封。
武王发，其后为周，有本纪言。
管叔鲜作乱诛死，无后。
周公旦，其后为鲁，有世家言。
蔡叔度，其后为蔡，有世家言。
曹叔振铎，有后为曹，有世家言。
成叔武，其后世无所见。
霍叔处，其后晋献公时灭霍。
康叔封，其后为卫，有世家言。
冉季载，其后世无所见。
太史公曰：管蔡作乱，无足载者。
然周武王崩，成王少，天下既疑，赖同母之弟成叔、冉季之属十人为辅拂，是以诸侯卒宗周，故附之世家言。
曹叔振铎者，周武王弟也。武王已克殷纣，封叔振铎于曹。
叔振铎卒，子太伯脾立。
太伯卒，子仲君平立。
仲君平卒，子宫伯侯立。
宫伯侯卒，子孝伯云立。
孝伯云卒，子夷伯喜立。
夷伯二十三年，周厉王奔于彘。
三十年卒，弟幽伯强立。
幽伯九年，弟苏杀幽伯代立，是为戴伯。
戴伯元年，周宣王已立三岁。
三十年，戴伯卒，子惠伯兕立。
惠伯二十五年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，因东徙，益卑，诸侯畔之。
秦始列为诸侯。
三十六年，惠伯卒，子石甫立，其弟武杀之代立，是为缪公。
缪公三年卒，子桓公终生立。
桓公三十五年，鲁隐公立。
四十五年，鲁弑其君隐公。
四十六年，宋华父督弑其君殇公，及孔父。
五十五年，桓公卒，子庄公夕姑立。
translation: 
In the 19th year, Chenghou died and his son Shenghou Chan succeeded to the throne.
Shenghou died in the fifteenth year, and his son Yuanhou succeeded to the throne.
Yuan Hou died in the sixth year, and his son Hou Qi succeeded to the throne.
In the fourth year of Hou Qi's reign, King Hui of Chu destroyed the State of Cai, and Hou Qi of Cai fled. From then on, the sacrifices of the State of Cai were cut off, and the country was destroyed, thirty-three years later than the State of Chen.
Boyikao's descendants don't know where they were sealed.
The descendant of Wu Wangfa was Zhou Wang, which is recorded in "Benji".
Guan Shuxian rebelled and was killed, leaving no descendants.
The descendants of Zhou Gongdan were the monarchs of Lu State, which are recorded in "Shijia".
The descendants of Cai Shudu are the monarchs of Cai State, which are recorded in "Guan Cai Family".
The descendants of Cao Shu Zhenduo are the monarchs of Cao State, which are recorded in "Guan Cai Family".
The whereabouts of Cheng Shuwu's descendants are unknown.
The descendants of Huo Shuchu were enfeoffed in Huo Di and were later destroyed by Duke Xian of Jin.
The descendants of Kang Shufeng are the monarchs of Wei State, which are recorded in "Wei Kangshu Family".
The whereabouts of Ran Jizai's descendants are unknown.
Tai Shigong said: There is nothing worth recording about the rebellion of Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai.
However, after King Wu of Zhou died and King Cheng was young, everyone in the world doubted Duke Zhou. It was only with the help of Cheng Shu, Ran Ji and ten other people, including his mother and brothers, that all the princes in the world respected the Zhou family, so their deeds were appended to the "Aristocratic Family".
Cao Shu Zhenduo was the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou. After King Wu defeated Shang Zhou, he enfeoffed the land of Cao to Shu Zhenduo.
Shu Zhenduo died, and his son Taibo Pi succeeded to the throne.
Tai Bo died and his son Zhong Junping came to the throne.
Zhong Junping died, and his son Xian Bohou succeeded to the throne.
When Xian Bohou passed away, his son Xiao Boyun succeeded him.
Xiao Boyun died, and his son Yi Boxi succeeded him.
In the twenty-third year of Yibo, King Li of Zhou fled to the land of pigs.
Yi Bo died in the 30th year, and his younger brother You Boqiang succeeded to the throne.
In the ninth year of Youbo's reign, his younger brother Su killed Youbo and established himself as the king of the country. He was Daibo.
In the first year of Dai Bo, King Zhou Xuan had been on the throne for three years.
Thirty years later, Dai Bo died and his son Hui Boyi succeeded him.
In the twenty-fifth year of Huibo's reign, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong. The royal family moved eastward and became increasingly weak. The princes betrayed the royal family one after another.
Qin State began to be classified as a vassal state in this year.
In the thirty-sixth year, Hui Bo died and his son Shi Fu succeeded to the throne. His younger brother Wu killed Shi Fu and made himself king, namely Duke Mu.
Duke Mu died after reigning for three years, and his son Duke Huan succeeded him for life.
In the thirty-fifth year of Duke Huan, Duke Yin of Lu succeeded to the throne.
Forty-five years ago, the people of Lu killed Duke Yin.
In the forty-sixth year, Governor Hua Fu of the Song Dynasty killed Song Shang Gong and the doctor Kong Fu.
In the fifty-fifth year, Cao Huan Gong passed away, and his son Zhuang Gong Xi Gu succeeded to the throne.
summary:
After King Wu died, King Cheng succeeded as a child, and Zhou Gongdan ruled as regent. Guan Shu and Cai Shu, suspecting Zhou Gong's intentions, rebelled with Wu Geng. Zhou Gong crushed the rebellion, executing Wu Geng and Guan Shu, and exiling Cai Shu. Cai Shu died in exile, but his son Hu reformed and was later enfeoffed in Cai by Zhou Gong's recommendation. The text then traces the succession of Cai rulers through generations, including conflicts with Chu and Qi. Key events include Cai Aihou's capture by Chu, Cai Miao Hou's conflict with Duke Huan of Qi over a marriage dispute, and Cai's eventual destruction by King Hui of Chu after 33 years. The text also covers the lineage of Cao Shu Zhenduo, another brother, whose descendants ruled Cao until its destruction by Song. It notes that Guan Shu left no descendants, while Zhou Gongdan's descendants ruled Lu, and Kang Shu's descendants ruled Wei. The historian concludes that Guan and Cai's rebellion was unremarkable, but Zhou Gong's regency stabilized the Zhou dynasty. The dream of a Cao man predicting the state's fall is recounted, ending with Cao's destruction due to poor governance under Boyang and Gongsun Qiang.

