Chunk 0: 
original: 
管叔鲜、蔡叔度者，周文王子而武王弟也。
武王同母兄弟十人。
母曰太姒，文王正妃也。
其长子曰伯邑考，次曰武王发，次曰管叔鲜，次曰周公旦，次曰蔡叔度，次曰曹叔振铎，次曰成叔武，次曰霍叔处，次曰康叔封，次曰厓季载。
厓季载最少。同母昆弟十人，唯发、旦贤，左右辅文王，故文王舍伯邑考而以发为太子。
及文王崩而发立，是为武王。
伯邑考既已前卒矣。
武王已克殷纣，平天下，封功臣昆弟。
於是封叔鲜於管，封叔度於蔡：二人相纣子武庚禄父，治殷遗民。
封叔旦於鲁而相周，为周公。
封叔振铎於曹，封叔武於成，封叔处於霍。
康叔封、厓季载皆少，未得封。
武王既崩，成王少，周公旦专王室。
管叔、蔡叔疑周公之为不利於成王，乃挟武庚以作乱。
周公旦承成王命伐诛武庚，杀管叔，而放蔡叔，迁之，与车十乘，徒七十人从。
而分殷馀民为二：其一封微子启於宋，以续殷祀；其一封康叔为卫君，是为卫康叔。
封季载於厓。
厓季、康叔皆有驯行，於是周公举康叔为周司寇，厓季为周司空，以佐成王治，皆有令名於天下。
蔡叔度既迁而死。
其子曰胡，胡乃改行，率德驯善。
周公闻之，而举胡以为鲁卿士，鲁国治。
于是周公言于成王，复封胡于蔡，以奉蔡叔之祀，是为蔡仲。余五叔皆就国，无为天子吏者。
蔡仲卒，子蔡伯荒立。
蔡伯荒卒，子宫侯立。
宫侯卒，子厉侯立。
厉侯卒，子武侯立。
武侯之时，周厉王失国，奔彘，共和行政，诸侯多叛周。
武侯卒，子夷侯立。
translation: 
Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu were both sons of King Wen of Zhou and younger brothers of King Wu of Zhou.
There were ten brothers from the same mother of King Wu of Zhou.
Their mother's name was Taisi, who was King Wen's wife.
Her eldest son is Boyikao, followed by Wu Wangfa, Guan Shuxian, Zhou Gongdan, Cai Shudu, Cao Shuzhenduo, Cheng Shuwu, Huo Shuchu, Kang Shufeng, and the youngest is Ran Jizai.
Among the ten brothers, only Wu Wangfa and Zhou Gongdan were highly virtuous and talented, and they were the right-hand men to assist King Wen. Therefore, King Wen did not establish Boyikao, but made his second son Fa the crown prince.
After King Wen died, Prince Fa came to the throne and became King Wu.
Boyikao had passed away before this.
After King Wu defeated King Zhou of Yin and pacified the world, he granted great titles to his heroes and brothers.
So he enfeoffed the administrative land to Shuxian and the Cai land to Shudu; and made them ministers to the father of Wu Genglu, the son of Zhou, to govern the remnants of the Yin people together.
He enfeoffed the land of Lu to Shu Dan, and at the same time made Shu Dan the prime minister of the Zhou Dynasty, so he was called Zhou Gong.
Shu Zhenduo was granted the title of Cao Di, Shu Wu was granted the title of Cheng Di, and Shu Chu was granted the title of Huo Di.
Uncle Kang and Ran Jizai were young at that time, so they were not awarded the title.
After King Wu died, King Cheng succeeded to the throne at a young age, and Duke Zhou took control of the country.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected that Duke Zhou's actions were not conducive to becoming king, so they supported Wu Geng in the rebellion.
Zhou Gongdan conquered the rebels according to the decree of King Cheng, executed Wu Geng, killed Guan Shu and exiled Cai Shu. During the exile, Cai Shu was only given a carriage and seventy prisoners as his entourage.
The survivors of the Southern Dynasties were also divided into two parts: part of the Song Dynasty was granted to Wei Ziqi to continue the sacrifices of the Yin Dynasty; and part of the Wei Dynasty was established to establish the Wei Kingdom and appointed Uncle Kang as the king of the Wei Kingdom, which was Uncle Kang of Wei.
He also entrusted the land of Ran to Ji Zai.
Ran Ji and Uncle Kang had good conduct, so Duke Zhou recommended Uncle Kang to be the Sikong of the Zhou Dynasty, and Ran Ji to be the Sikong of the Zhou Dynasty. The two assisted King Cheng in governing the country, and their reputation spread throughout the world.
Cai Shudu died after being exiled.
His son's name was Hu. Hu changed his father's old behavior, followed moral precepts, and practiced good deeds.
After Duke Zhou heard about it, he recommended him to be a minister of the state of Lu. The state of Lu was governed very well.
The Duke of Zhou suggested to King Cheng that Hu should be granted a title in the land of Cai, in order to perform the annual sacrificial ceremony for Uncle Cai, who was Cai Zhong. The other five uncles returned to their respective kingdoms and did not serve as officials in the Zhou court.
Cai Zhong died and his son Cai Bohuang succeeded him.
Cai Bohuang died and his son Gonghou succeeded to the throne.
Gong Hou died and his son Li Hou succeeded to the throne.
Marquis Li died and his son Marquis Wu succeeded him.
When Wuhou was on the throne, King Zhou Li lost his throne and fled to the land of Hu. Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao were in power together, and many princes rebelled against the Zhou family.
Wuhou died and his son Yihou succeeded to the throne.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
夷侯十一年，周宣王即位。
二十八年，夷侯卒，子厘侯所事立。
厘侯三十九年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，周室卑而东徙。
秦始得列为诸侯。
四十八年，厘侯卒，子共侯兴立。
共侯二年卒，子戴侯立。
戴侯十年卒，子宣侯措父立。
宣侯二十八年，鲁隐公初立。
三十五年，宣侯卒，子桓侯封人立。
桓侯三年，鲁弑其君隐公。
二十年，桓侯卒，弟哀侯献舞立。
哀侯十一年，初，哀侯娶陈，息侯亦娶陈。息夫人将归，过蔡，蔡侯不敬。
息侯怒，请楚文王： 来伐我，我求救于蔡，蔡必来，楚因击之，可以有功。
楚文王从之，虏蔡哀侯以归。
哀侯留九岁，死于楚。
凡立二十年卒。蔡人立其子肸，是为缪侯。
缪侯以其女弟为齐桓公夫人。
十八年，齐桓公与蔡女戏船中，夫人荡舟，桓公止之，不止，公怒，归蔡女而不绝也。
蔡侯怒，嫁其弟。
齐桓公怒，伐蔡；蔡溃，遂虏缪侯，南至楚邵陵。
已而诸侯为蔡谢齐，齐侯归蔡侯。
二十九年，缪侯卒，子庄侯甲午立。
庄侯三年，齐桓公卒。
十四年，晋文公败楚于城濮。
二十年，楚太子商臣弑其父成王代立。
二十五年，秦穆公卒。
三十三年，楚庄王即位。
三十四年，庄侯卒，子文侯申立。
文侯十四年，楚庄王伐陈，杀夏征舒。
十五年，楚围郑，郑降楚，楚复之。
二十年，文侯卒，子景侯固立。
景侯元年，楚庄王卒。
四十九年，景侯为太子般娶妇于楚，而景侯通焉。太子弑景侯而自立，是为灵侯。
translation: 
In the eleventh year of Yihou's reign, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
In the twenty-eighth year, Yihou died, and his son Lihou succeeded to the throne.
In the thirty-ninth year of Lihou, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, and the Zhou family declined and moved eastward.
Qin began to be classified as vassals.
In the forty-eighth year, Marquis Li died, and his son Gonghou Xing succeeded him.
Hou Gong died in the second year, and his son Dai Hou succeeded to the throne.
Dai Hou died in the tenth year, and his son Xuanhou Cuo succeeded to the throne.
In the twenty-eighth year of Xuanhou's reign, Duke Yin of Lu ascended the throne.
In the thirty-fifth year, Xuanhou died and his son Huanhou succeeded him.
In the third year of Marquis Huan, the people of Lu killed their king, Duke Yin of Lu.
In the 20th year, Huanhou died and his younger brother Aihou Xianwu succeeded him.
In the eleventh year of Aihou's reign, Aihou married a wife from the Chen State. In this year, Xihou also married a wife from the Chen State. Mrs. Xi passed by the Cai State after getting married, and Aihou showed great disrespect.
Xihou was furious and asked King Wen of Chu: You bring troops to conquer our country. I ask Cai Guo for help. Cai's soldiers will come to rescue. Chu will take the opportunity to attack Cai Guo and will definitely win.
King Wen of Chu followed the plan and captured Cai Aihou and brought him back to Chu.
Aihou was detained in Chu State for nine years and finally died in Chu State.
Aihou died after reigning for twenty years, and the Cai people made Aihou's son Gui their king, who was Miaohou.
Marquis Mu married his sister to Duke Huan of Qi as his wife.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Huan of Qi and his wife, Cai Nu, were taking a boat trip. His wife rocked the boat vigorously. Duke Huan stopped her, but she still did not stop. Duke Huan was furious and sent her back to her parents' home but did not sever ties with her.
Cai Hou was also very angry and married his sister to someone else.
Duke Huan of Qi attacked Cai State in anger. Cai State was defeated and Miao Hou was captured. Qi State marched south to Shaoling of Chu State.
Later, all the princes apologized to Duke Huan of Qi on behalf of Marquis Cai, and then Duke Huan of Qi allowed Marquis Cai to return home.
In the 29th year, Muhou died, and his son Zhuanghou succeeded to the throne in Jiawu.
In the third year of Zhuanghou's reign, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Wen of Jin defeated Chu in Chengpu.
Twenty years later, the prince Shangchen of Chu killed his father Chengwang and seized the throne.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the thirty-third year, King Zhuang of Chu came to the throne.
In the thirty-fourth year, Zhuang Hou died, and his son Wen Hou Shen Jili was established.
In the fourteenth year of Marquis Wen's reign, King Zhuang of Chu attacked the state of Chen and killed Xia Zhengshu.
In the fifteenth year, the Chu army surrounded the state of Zheng. The king of Zheng surrendered, and the state of Chu released Lord Zheng.
Twenty years later, Wen Hou died and his son Jing Hou Gu succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Jinghou, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
In the forty-ninth year, Jinghou married a girl from Chu State like a prince. Jinghou also committed adultery with his daughter-in-law. The prince killed Jinghou and established himself as king, Linghou.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
灵侯二年，楚公子围弑其王郏敖而自立，为灵王。
九年，陈司徒招弑其君哀公。
楚使公子弃疾灭陈而有之。
十二年，楚灵王以灵侯弑其父，诱蔡灵侯于申，伏甲饮之，醉而杀之，刑其士卒七十人。
令公子弃疾围蔡。
十一月，灭蔡，使弃疾为蔡公。
楚灭蔡三岁，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王代立，为平王。
平王乃求蔡景侯少子庐，立之，是为平侯。
是年，楚亦复立陈。
楚平王初立，欲亲诸侯，故复立陈、蔡后。
平侯九年卒，灵侯般之孙东国攻平侯子而自立，是为悼侯。
悼侯父曰隐太子友。
隐太子友者，灵侯之太子，平侯立而杀隐太子，故平侯卒而隐太子之子东国攻平侯子而代立，是为悼侯。
悼侯三年卒，弟昭侯申立。
昭侯十年，朝楚昭王，持美裘二，献其一于昭王而自衣其一。
楚相子常欲之，不与。
子常谗蔡侯，留之楚三年。
蔡侯知之，乃献其裘于子常；子常受之，乃言归蔡侯。
蔡侯归而之晋，请与晋伐楚。
十三年春，与卫灵公会邵陵。
蔡侯私于周苌á弘以求长于卫；卫使史鳅言康叔之功德，乃长卫。
夏，为晋灭沈，楚怒，攻蔡。
蔡昭侯使其子为质于吴，以共伐楚。
冬，与吴王阖闾遂破楚入郢。
蔡怨子常，子常恐，奔郑。
十四年，吴去而楚昭王复国。
十六年，楚令尹为其民泣以谋蔡，蔡昭侯惧。
二十六年，孔子如蔡。
楚昭王伐蔡，蔡恐，告急于吴。
吴为蔡远，约迁以自近，易以相救；昭侯私许，不与大夫计。
吴人来救蔡，因迁蔡于州来。
二十八年，昭侯将朝于吴，大夫恐其复迁，乃令贼利杀昭侯；已而诛贼利以解过，而立昭侯子朔，是为成侯。
成侯四年，宋灭曹。
十年，齐田常弑其君简公。
十三年，楚灭陈。
translation: 
In the second year of Linghou, the princes of Chu surrounded and killed the king Jia Ao and established himself as King of Chu, namely King Ling of Chu.
In the ninth year, Situ Zhao of Chen State killed his king Chen Aigong.
The Chu State sent its son Qi Ji to occupy the Chen State, and the Chen State was destroyed.
In the twelfth year, King Ling of Chu killed his father on the pretext of Marquis Cai Ling, lured Marquis Cai Ling to Shendi, ambushed the armored soldiers in advance, and entertained Marquis Ling with a banquet.
Linghou was killed by the Chu people after he was drunk, and the seventy soldiers who followed Linghou were also tortured and killed.
King Ling of Chu ordered his son Qi Ji to surround Cai Guo. In November, the Chu State destroyed the Cai State and appointed Qiji as Cai Gong.
Three years after the fall of the Chu State and the fall of the Cai State, the Chu State's son Qi Ji killed King Ling of Chu and replaced him as king, namely King Ping.
King Ping found Cai Jinghou's youngest son, Lu, and established him as the king of Cai State, namely Pinghou.
This year, Chu State also restored Chen State.
King Ping of Chu had just ascended the throne and planned to get close to the princes, so he asked the descendants of Chen and Cai to succeed him.
Pinghou died after reigning for nine years. Dongguo, the grandson of Cai Linghou, defeated Pinghou's son and established himself as the king of the country. He was named Mourning Hou.
The father of Hou Hou was Prince Yin.
Youben was the prince of Linghou. After Pinghou succeeded to the throne, he killed Prince Yinyou. Therefore, as soon as Pinghou died, Prince Yin's son Dongguo attacked Pinghou's son and seized the throne.
After three years of reigning, Hou Hou died, and his younger brother Zhaohou Shen succeeded to the throne.
When Zhaohou was ten years old, he went to see King Zhao of Chu. He brought two beautiful leather coats, one for King Zhao and one for himself.
Yin Zichang, the commander of Chu State, wanted the piece from Cai Zhaohou, but Zhaohou would not give it to him.
Zichang spoke ill of Zhaohou to King Zhao of Chu and detained Zhaohou in Chu for three years.
Later, Cai Zhaohou knew the reason and presented his leather coat to Zichang. After Zichang accepted the leather coat, he suggested to the King of Chu that Zhaohou be returned to the country.
After Cai Hou returned home, he rushed to Jin and asked Jin to help Cai attack Chu.
In the spring of the thirteenth year, Zhaohou and Wei Linggong held an alliance in Shaoling.
Marquis Cai secretly bribed Zhou's official Chang Hong and requested that Cai Guo be ranked ahead of Wei Guo in the alliance meeting. The historian of Wei Zepai said that Wei Kangshu was highly virtuous and meritorious, so Wei Guo was ranked ahead of Cai Guo.
In the summer, the state of Cai destroyed the state of Shen according to the wishes of the state of Jin. The king of Chu was furious and sent troops to attack the state of Cai.
Cai Zhaohou sent his son to Wu as a hostage and asked Wu to send troops to jointly attack Chu.
In winter, the Marquis of Cai and King Helu of Wu broke through the Chu State and entered Ying, the capital of Chu.
Because Marquis Cai hated Zichang, Zichang was afraid and fled to the state of Zheng.
In the fourteenth year, the State of Wu withdrew its troops, and King Zhao of Chu recovered the State of Chu.
In the 16th year, Ling Yin of the Chu State planned to attack Cai Cai to avenge him. When he appealed to the people, he burst into tears. Cai Zhaohou was very frightened when he heard about it.
In the twenty-sixth year, Confucius went to Cai State.
When King Zhao of Chu attacked the state of Cai, the Marquis of Cai panicked and asked the state of Wu for help.
The King of Wu thought that the capital of Cai State was too far away from Wu State, and asked Cai Hou to move his capital closer to Wu State so that he could send troops to rescue him. Cai Zhaohou secretly agreed without consulting the officials.
So Wu sent troops to rescue Cai and moved the capital of Cai to Zhou.
In the twenty-eighth year, Zhaohou was going to meet King Wu. The officials of Cai State were afraid that he would move the capital again, so they ordered a thief named Li to kill Zhaohou, and then killed Li to avoid the crime of killing the king. So they supported Zhaohou's son Shuo as the king, that is, Chenghou.
In the fourth year of Marquis Cheng, the Song State destroyed the Cao State.
In the tenth year, Tian Chang of Qi State killed his king, Duke Jian of Qi State.
In the thirteenth year, Chu State destroyed Chen State.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
十九年，成侯卒，子声侯产立。
声侯十五年卒，子元侯立。
元侯六年卒，子侯齐立。
侯齐四年，楚惠王灭蔡，蔡侯齐亡，蔡遂绝祀。后陈灭三十三年。
伯邑考，其后不知所封。
武王发，其后为周，有本纪言。
管叔鲜作乱诛死，无后。
周公旦，其后为鲁，有世家言。
蔡叔度，其后为蔡，有世家言。
曹叔振铎，有后为曹，有世家言。
成叔武，其后世无所见。
霍叔处，其后晋献公时灭霍。
康叔封，其后为卫，有世家言。
冉季载，其后世无所见。
太史公曰：管蔡作乱，无足载者。
然周武王崩，成王少，天下既疑，赖同母之弟成叔、冉季之属十人为辅拂，是以诸侯卒宗周，故附之世家言。
曹叔振铎者，周武王弟也。武王已克殷纣，封叔振铎于曹。
叔振铎卒，子太伯脾立。
太伯卒，子仲君平立。
仲君平卒，子宫伯侯立。
宫伯侯卒，子孝伯云立。
孝伯云卒，子夷伯喜立。
夷伯二十三年，周厉王奔于彘。
三十年卒，弟幽伯强立。
幽伯九年，弟苏杀幽伯代立，是为戴伯。
戴伯元年，周宣王已立三岁。
三十年，戴伯卒，子惠伯兕立。
惠伯二十五年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，因东徙，益卑，诸侯畔之。
秦始列为诸侯。
三十六年，惠伯卒，子石甫立，其弟武杀之代立，是为缪公。
缪公三年卒，子桓公终生立。
桓公三十五年，鲁隐公立。
四十五年，鲁弑其君隐公。
四十六年，宋华父督弑其君殇公，及孔父。
五十五年，桓公卒，子庄公夕姑立。
translation: 
In the 19th year, Chenghou died and his son Shenghou Chan succeeded to the throne.
Shenghou died in the fifteenth year, and his son Yuanhou succeeded to the throne.
Yuan Hou died in the sixth year, and his son Hou Qi succeeded to the throne.
In the fourth year of Hou Qi's reign, King Hui of Chu destroyed the State of Cai, and Hou Qi of Cai fled. From then on, the sacrifices of the State of Cai were cut off, and the country was destroyed, thirty-three years later than the State of Chen.
Boyikao's descendants don't know where they were sealed.
The descendant of Wu Wangfa was Zhou Wang, which is recorded in "Benji".
Guan Shuxian rebelled and was killed, leaving no descendants.
The descendants of Zhou Gongdan were the monarchs of Lu State, which are recorded in "Shijia".
The descendants of Cai Shudu are the monarchs of Cai State, which are recorded in "Guan Cai Family".
The descendants of Cao Shu Zhenduo are the monarchs of Cao State, which are recorded in "Guan Cai Family".
The whereabouts of Cheng Shuwu's descendants are unknown.
The descendants of Huo Shuchu were enfeoffed in Huo Di and were later destroyed by Duke Xian of Jin.
The descendants of Kang Shufeng are the monarchs of Wei State, which are recorded in "Wei Kangshu Family".
The whereabouts of Ran Jizai's descendants are unknown.
Tai Shigong said: There is nothing worth recording about the rebellion of Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai.
However, after King Wu of Zhou died and King Cheng was young, everyone in the world doubted Duke Zhou. It was only with the help of Cheng Shu, Ran Ji and ten other people, including his mother and brothers, that all the princes in the world respected the Zhou family, so their deeds were appended to the "Aristocratic Family".
Cao Shu Zhenduo was the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou. After King Wu defeated Shang Zhou, he enfeoffed the land of Cao to Shu Zhenduo.
Shu Zhenduo died, and his son Taibo Pi succeeded to the throne.
Tai Bo died and his son Zhong Junping came to the throne.
Zhong Junping died, and his son Xian Bohou succeeded to the throne.
When Xian Bohou passed away, his son Xiao Boyun succeeded him.
Xiao Boyun died, and his son Yi Boxi succeeded him.
In the twenty-third year of Yibo, King Li of Zhou fled to the land of pigs.
Yi Bo died in the 30th year, and his younger brother You Boqiang succeeded to the throne.
In the ninth year of Youbo's reign, his younger brother Su killed Youbo and established himself as the king of the country. He was Daibo.
In the first year of Dai Bo, King Zhou Xuan had been on the throne for three years.
Thirty years later, Dai Bo died and his son Hui Boyi succeeded him.
In the twenty-fifth year of Huibo's reign, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong. The royal family moved eastward and became increasingly weak. The princes betrayed the royal family one after another.
Qin State began to be classified as a vassal state in this year.
In the thirty-sixth year, Hui Bo died and his son Shi Fu succeeded to the throne. His younger brother Wu killed Shi Fu and made himself king, namely Duke Mu.
Duke Mu died after reigning for three years, and his son Duke Huan succeeded him for life.
In the thirty-fifth year of Duke Huan, Duke Yin of Lu succeeded to the throne.
Forty-five years ago, the people of Lu killed Duke Yin.
In the forty-sixth year, Governor Hua Fu of the Song Dynasty killed Song Shang Gong and the doctor Kong Fu.
In the fifty-fifth year, Cao Huan Gong passed away, and his son Zhuang Gong Xi Gu succeeded to the throne.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
庄公二十三年，齐桓公始霸。
三十一年，庄公卒，子厘公夷立。
厘公九年卒，子昭公班立。
昭公六年，齐桓公败蔡，遂至楚召陵。
九年，昭公卒，子共公襄立。
共公十六年，初，晋公子重耳其亡过曹，曹君无礼，欲观其骈胁。
厘负羁谏，不听，私善于重耳。
二十一年，晋文公重耳伐曹，虏共公以归，令军毋入厘负羁之宗族闾。
或说晋文公曰： 昔齐桓公会诸侯，复异姓；今君囚曹君，灭同姓，何以令于诸侯？
晋乃复归共公。
二十五年，晋文公卒。
三十五年，共公卒，子文公寿立。
文公二十三年卒，子宣公强立。
宣公十七年卒，弟成公负刍立。
成公三年，晋厉公伐曹，虏成公以归，已复释之。
五年，晋栾书、中行偃使程滑弑其君厉公。
二十三年，成公卒，子武公胜立。
武公二十六年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王代立。
二十七年，武公卒，子平公须立。
平公四年卒，子悼公午立。
是岁，宋、卫、陈、郑皆火。
悼公八年，宋景公立。
九年，悼公朝于宋，宋囚之；曹立其弟野，是为声公。
悼公死于宋，归葬。
声公五年，平公弟通弑声公代立，是为隐公。
隐公四年，声公弟露弑隐公代立，是为靖公。
靖公四年卒，子伯阳立。
伯阳三年，国人有梦众君子立于社宫，谋欲亡曹；曹叔振铎止之，请待公孙强，许之。
translation: 
At the 23rd day of Duke Zhuang's reign, Duke Huan of Qi began to serve as the leader of all alliances and to dominate the world.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Zhuang passed away, and his son Li Gong Yi succeeded him.
Li Gong died in the ninth year of his reign, and his son Zhao Gong Ban succeeded him.
In the sixth year of Duke Zhao, Duke Huan of Qi defeated Cai and came to Shaoling of Chu.
In the ninth year, Zhaogong passed away, and his son Gonggong Xiang succeeded him.
Sixteen years of public service. At first, Chong'er, the prince of Jin State, passed by Cao State when he was on the run. The king of Cao State was very rude to Chong'er and wanted to see Chong'er's ribs growing together.
Lifuji advised him, but Cao Jun did not listen, so Lifuji got close to Chonger in private.
In the 21st year, Duke Wen of Jin Chong'er attacked the state of Cao. He captured Duke Cao and returned. He ordered the Jin army not to enter the place where Lifuji's family lived.
Someone said to Duke Wen of Jin: In the past, Duke Huan of Qi held an alliance with the princes and restored the countries with different surnames; now you have imprisoned Jun Cao and destroyed the countries with the same surname. Why do you issue orders to the princes in the world?
Duke Wen of Jin then released his father-in-law and returned him to his country.
In the twenty-fifth year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the thirty-fifth year, Gonggong Cao passed away and his son Wen Gongshou succeeded to the throne.
Duke Wen passed away in the twenty-third year of his reign, and his son Xuangong Qiang succeeded him.
Duke Xuan died in the seventeenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Cheng Gong succeeded to the throne.
In the third year of Chenggong's reign, Duke Li of Jin attacked the state of Cao. He captured Chenggong and returned, but soon released him.
In the fifth year, Luan Shu and Zhongxing Yan of Jin ordered Cheng Hua to kill their king, Duke Li.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Cheng died, and his son Duke Wu succeeded him.
In the twenty-sixth year of Duke Wu, the prince of Chu State Qi Ji killed his king Ling Wang and replaced him as king.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Wu died, and his son Duke Ping had to succeed him.
Duke Ping passed away in the fourth year of his reign, and his son succeeded him in mourning.
This year, fires broke out in the states of Song, Wei, Chen, and Zheng.
In the eighth year of his mourning, Duke Jinggong of Song Dynasty came to the throne.
In the ninth year, Duke Cao went to the Song Dynasty for a court meeting and was imprisoned by the Song Dynasty. The ministers of Cao State supported Ye, the younger brother of Duke Cao, as king, which was called Sheng Gong.
Duke Mourning finally died in the Song Dynasty and was later buried in Cao Cao.
In the fifth year of Shenggong's reign, Cao Pinggong's younger brother Tong killed Shenggong and established himself as Yin Gong.
In the fourth year of Duke Yin's reign, Duke Cao Sheng's younger brother Lu killed Duke Yin and established himself as Duke Jing.
Jinggong died in the fourth year and was succeeded by his son Boyang.
In the third year of Boyang, a man in the capital of Cao State had a dream. He dreamed that many gentlemen were standing in the palace and discussing the destruction of Cao State. Cao Shu Zhenduo stopped them and asked them to wait for Gongsun Qiang. The gentlemen agreed to Shu Zhenduo's request.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
旦，求之曹，无此人。
梦者戒其子曰： 我亡，尔闻公孙强为政，必去曹，无离曹祸。
及伯阳即位，好田弋之事。
六年，曹野人公孙强亦好田弋，获白雁而献之，且言田弋之说，因访政事。
伯阳大说之，有宠，使为司城以听政。
梦者之子乃亡去。
公孙强言霸说于曹伯。
十四年，曹伯从之，乃背晋干宋。
宋景公伐之，晋人不救。
十五年，宋灭曹，执曹伯阳及公孙强以归而杀之。曹遂绝其祀。
太史公曰：余寻曹共公之不用僖负羁，乃乘轩者三百人，知唯德之不建。
及振铎之梦，岂不欲引曹之祀者哉？
如公孙强不修厥政，叔铎之祀忽诸。
translation: 
The dreamer searched all over Cao State after dawn, but there was no such person as Gongsun Qiang.
The dreamer warned his son: After my death, if you hear that Gongsun Qiang is in charge of political affairs, you must leave Cao State to avoid disaster.
After Boyang ascended the throne, he became fond of hunting.
In the sixth year of Cao State, there was a farmer named Gongsun Qiang who also liked hunting. He hunted white geese and presented them to Boyang. He talked about the art of hunting and discussed political affairs.
Boyang was extremely happy and favored Gongsun Qiang very much. He appointed him as Sicheng to handle government affairs.
When the dreamer's son heard about it, he fled Cao's country.
Gongsun Qiang presented to Cao Bo his idea of ​​dominating the feudal lords.
In the fourteenth year, Cao Bo followed Gongsun Qiang's idea, betrayed Jin and invaded Song.
Duke Jinggong of Song Dynasty attacked Cao Cao, but the state of Jin did not save him.
In the fifteenth year, Song Dynasty destroyed Cao Cao, captured Cao Boyang and Gongsun Qiang, returned to Song Dynasty and killed them, and Cao State was destroyed.
Tai Shigong said: I found out that Mr. Cao did not practice virtuous government by studying the fact that Mr. Cao did not listen to the rules of wise men but favored three hundred beauties in his harem and rode in the royal carriage.
As for Cao Shu Zhenduo's entrustment of dreams to others, doesn't he want to prolong the fate of Cao State?
Unfortunately, Gongsun Qiang failed to govern the country well, and Cao Shu Zhenduo's sacrificial cigarettes finally became extinct.


