Chunk 0: 
original: 
李恂字叔英，安定临泾人也。
少习《韩诗》，教授诸生常数百人。
太守颍川李鸿请署功曹，未及到，而州辟为从事。
会鸿卒，恂不应州命，而送鸿丧还乡里。
既葬，留起冢坟，持丧三年。
辟司徒桓虞府。
后拜侍御史，持节使幽州，宣布恩泽，慰抚北狄，所过皆图写山川、屯田、聚落百余卷，悉封奏上，肃宗嘉之。拜兗州刺史。
以清约率下，常席羊皮，服布被。
迁张掖太守，有威重名。
时大将军窦宪将兵屯武威，天下州郡远近莫不修礼遗，恂奉公不阿，为宪所奏免。
后复征拜谒者，使持节领西域副校尉。
西域殷富，多珍宝，诸国侍子及督使贾胡数遗恂奴婢、宛马、金银、香罽之属，一无所受。
北匈奴数断西域车师、伊吾，陇沙以西使命不得通，恂设购赏，遂斩虏帅，悬首军门。
translation: 
◆In the biography of Li Xun, Li Xun was born in Linjing, Anding.
He studied "Han Shi" at a young age and taught hundreds of students.
Li Hong, the prefect of Yingchuan, asked Li Xun to be appointed as a meritorious official. However, he failed to take up the post, and the prefecture called him to work.
When Li Hong died, Li Xun responded to the state's order and sent Li Hong back to his hometown for his funeral.
He has been buried, and the grave has been left to mourn for three years.
Later Li Xun was called into Situ Huanyu's mansion.
Later he was promoted to the imperial censor, and he went to Youzhou as an envoy to declare the emperor's favor and comfort Beidi. Wherever he went, he described the mountains and rivers, as well as the conditions of villages and settlements, etc., in more than a hundred volumes, all of which were sealed. Emperor Suzong commended him and appointed him as the governor of Yanzhou.
He set an example by keeping promises, often using sheepskin as a mat and a quilt as a cover.
He was promoted to the governor of Zhangye and gained a prestigious reputation.
At that time, General Dou Xian and his soldiers were stationed in Wuwei. No matter how far or near the country was, no one in the country did not practice rituals and gifts of property. Li Xun was not loyal to his duty and was dismissed by Dou Xian.
Later, he was recruited as a visitor and made Chijie the captain of the Western Regions.
The Western Region was rich and rich, and there were many treasures. The servants and envoys of various countries and merchants from Hu Dynasty gave Li Xun many things such as slaves, horses, gold, silver, and fragrant yokes, but Li Xun refused to accept any of them.
The Northern Xiongnu cut off Cheshi and Yiwu in the Western Regions several times, and missions in the area west of Longsha were blocked. Li Xun offered a reward, so he beheaded the commander and hung his head at the military gate.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自是道路夷清，威恩并行。
迁武威太守。
后坐事免，步归乡里，潜居山泽，结草为庐，独与诸生织席自给。
会西羌反畔，恂到田舍，为所执获。
羌素闻其名，放遣之。
恂因诣洛阳谢。
时岁荒，司空张敏、司徒鲁恭等各遣子馈粮，悉无所受。
徙居新安关下，拾橡实以自资。
年九十六卒。
陈禅字纪山，巴郡安汉人也。
仕郡功曹，举善黜恶，为邦内所畏。
察孝廉，州辟治中从事。
时刺史为人所上受纳臧赂，禅当传考，无它所赍，但持丧敛之具而已。
及至，笞掠无算，五毒毕加，禅神意自若，辞对无变，事遂散释。
车骑将军邓骘闻其名而辟焉，举茂才。
时汉中蛮夷反畔，以禅为汉中太守。
夷贼素闻其声，即时降服。
translation: 
From then on, the road was clear and smooth, and kindness and power flowed side by side.
Later he moved to Wuwei to be the prefect.
He was dismissed from his post for some reason and walked back to his hometown. He lived in seclusion in the mountains and swamps, making a hut from grass and weaving mats with other people to support himself.
When the Xiqiang rebelled, Li Xun went to the farm and was captured by the Qiang people.
The Qiang people always heard Xun's name and sent him away.
Xun went to Luoyang to express his gratitude.
At that time, there was a famine. Sikong Zhang Min, Situ Lu Gong and other sons sent grain to Xun, but Xun did not accept it.
He moved to Xin'an Pass and picked up acorns to fill his stomach.
Died at the age of ninety-six.
◆Chen Chan's biography, Chen Chan's courtesy name is Jishan, and he was a native of Anhan, Ba County.
He was a meritorious officer in the county, doing good and punishing evil, and was feared by the people in the country.
He was inspected for being filial and honest, and he was appointed in the state to be engaged in governance.
At that time, the governor was accused of accepting bribes, and Chen Chan should be arrested and investigated. He had no property, just some funeral utensils.
After arriving, the plunder was in vain, all the five poisons were used, the Zen mind was at ease, the confession remained unchanged, and the case was solved.
Deng Zhi, the general of chariots and cavalry, heard about his reputation and summoned him, making him a talented person.
At that time, the barbarians in Hanzhong rebelled and made Chen Chan the governor of Hanzhong.
The barbarians always surrendered immediately when they heard about his reputation.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
迁左冯翊，入拜谏议大夫。
永宁元年，西南夷掸国王献乐及幻人，能吐火，自支解，易牛马头。
明年元会，作之于庭，安帝与群臣共观，大奇之。
禅独离席举手大言曰： 昔齐、鲁为夹谷之会，齐作侏儒之乐，仲尼诛之。
又曰： 放郑声，远佞人。
帝王之庭，不宜设夷狄之技。
尚书陈忠劾奏禅曰： 古者合欢之乐舞于堂，四夷之乐陈于门，故《诗》云 以《雅》以《南》，《韎》、《任》、《朱离》 。
今掸国越流沙，逾县度，万里贡献，非郑、卫之声，佞人之比，而禅廷讪朝政，请劾禅下狱。
有诏勿收，左转为玄菟候城障尉，诏 敢不之官，上妻子从者名 。
禅既行，朝廷多讼之。
会北匈奴入辽东，追拜禅辽东太守。
translation: 
Chen Chan was promoted to Zuo Fengyi and entered the court to worship as an admonishing doctor.
In the first year of Yongning, the king of the Shan Dynasty in the southwest presented music and illusions to people who could spit fire, dismember their bodies, and replace the heads of cattle and horses.
In the second year of Yuanhui, there was a performance in the court. Emperor An and his ministers watched it together and found it strange.
Chen Chan left the table alone and raised his hands and said loudly: In the past, Qi and Lu had a meeting in the valley, and Qi was enjoying the dwarfs. Confucius took photos of ministers and thought it was an insult to the princes, so he beheaded the dwarfs.
He also said: If you listen to the sound of Zheng, you will be far away from the sycophants.
It is not appropriate for the imperial court to have the skills of barbarians and Di.
Shangshu Chen Zhonggai reported to Chen Chan: In ancient times, the music of Hehuan was danced in the hall, and the music of the four barbarians was played in the door. Therefore, the Book of Songs said: To the south of Yiya, Zhu Li was appointed in the late Wei Dynasty.
Today, the Shan State passes through the Liusha River and crosses the county mountains, coming thousands of miles to contribute. It is not the voice of Zheng Wei, it is comparable to the sycophants, but Chen Chan ridiculed the government in the court, and asked Chen Chan to be impeached and imprisoned.
There was an edict stating that arrests were not allowed and he was demoted to the rank of Xuantuhou Chengzhaowei. The edict said: If you dare not take up the post, report the name of your wife's servant.
Chen Chan has already set off, and the court is accusing him.
When the Northern Huns invaded Liaodong, they pursued Chen Chan as the governor of Liaodong.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
胡惮其威强，退还数百里。
禅不加兵，但使吏卒往晓慰之，单于随使还郡。
禅于学行礼，为说道义以感化之。
单于怀服，遗以胡中珍货而去。
及邓骘诛废，禅以故吏免。
复为车骑将军阎显长史。
顺帝即位，迁司隶校尉。
明年，卒于官。
子澄，有清名，官至汉中太守。
庞参字仲达，河南缑氏人也。
初仕郡，未知名，河南尹庞奋见而奇之，举为孝廉，拜左校令。
坐法输作若卢。
永初元年，凉州先零种羌反畔，遣车骑将军邓骘讨之。
参于徒中使其子俊上书曰：方今西州流民扰动，而征发不绝，水潦不休，地力不复。
重之以大军，疲之以远戍，农功消于转运，资财竭于征发。
田畴不得垦辞，禾稼不得收入，搏手困穷，无望来秋。
百姓力屈，不复堪命。
translation: 
The Hu people were afraid of his power and retreated hundreds of miles.
Chen Chan did not add troops to pursue them, but only sent officers and soldiers to Xiaoyu to comfort them. Chanyu followed the envoy back to the county.
Chen Chan studied etiquette and taught moral principles to influence them.
Chanyu was convinced and sent away some of Hu's treasures.
Later, Deng Zhao was killed, and Chen Chan was dismissed from office because he was Deng's former official.
He also made a long history of the chariot and cavalry general Yan Xian.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and was promoted to Sili Xiaowei.
The next year, he died in the government.
His son, Chen Cheng, had a clear name and became the prefect of Hanzhong.
◆Pang Can's biography, Pang Can's courtesy name is Zhongda, and he was a native of Fengshi, Henan.
He began to serve as an official there, and was unknown. Henan Yin Pangfen saw it and thought it was strange. He promoted him to Xiaolian and worshiped him as Zuo Xiaoling.
He broke the law and was sent to Ruolu Prison.
In the first year of Yongchu, the Zhongqiang people in Liangzhou rebelled, and the imperial court sent cavalry general Deng Zhi to attack them.
When Pang Shen was in exile, he sent his son Pang Jun to write: "Nowadays, the refugees in Xizhou are causing disturbances, the conscription continues, the water supply continues, and the soil does not recover."
In addition, the army was deployed, the distant garrison was very tired, the farm work was busy transferring, and all the resources were exhausted.
The fields cannot be cultivated, the crops cannot be harvested, there is no plan, and there is no hope for autumn.
The people were exhausted and could not bear it.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣愚以为万里运粮，远就羌戎，不若总兵养众，以待其疲。
车骑将军骘宜且振旅，留征西校尉任尚使督凉州士民，转居三辅。
休徭役以助其时，止烦赋以益其财，令男得耕种，女得织纴，然后畜精锐，乘懈沮，出其不意，攻其不备，则边人之仇报，奔北之耻雪矣。
书奏，会御史中丞樊准上疏荐参曰：臣闻鸷鸟累百，不如一鹗。
昔孝文皇帝悟冯唐之言，而赦魏尚之罪，使为边守，匈奴不敢南向。
夫以一臣之身，折方面之难者，选用得也。
臣伏见故左校令河南庞参，勇谋不测，卓尔奇伟，高才武略，有魏尚之风。
前坐微法，输作经时。
今羌戎为患，大军西屯，臣以为如参之人，宜在行伍。
惟明诏采前世之举，观魏尚之功，免赦参刑，以为军锋，必有成效，宣助国威。
邓太后纳其言，即擢参于徒中，召拜竭者，使西督三辅诸军屯，而征邓骘还。
translation: 
The foolish minister thinks that transporting grain thousands of miles away is as far away as the Qiang Rong. It is better to gather troops to support the people and wait until they are tired.
Deng Zhao, the general of chariots and cavalry, was supposed to lead his troops on the expedition, leaving Ren Shang, the captain of Zhengxi School, to supervise the people of Liangzhou and move to Sanfu.
Let the corvees rest to help them during their time, and stop the fertilization to increase their wealth, so that the men can farm and the women can weave, and then recharge their batteries, take advantage of the slack, and attack when they are surprised and unprepared. Then the revenge of the border people can be avenged, and the shame of running north will be avenged.
When the book was sent out, the imperial censor, Fan Zhunshang, recommended Pang Shendao: "I heard that there are hundreds of birds of prey, but they are not as good as one osprey."
In the past, Emperor Xiaowen understood Feng Tang's words and pardoned Wei Shang's crime, making him a border guard. The Huns did not dare to take a step south.
Use a minister's body to solve a party's difficulties and choose people.
I saw that Pang Shen, the former commander of the Zuo School, was brave, resourceful, unique, talented in military strategy, and had the demeanor of Wei Shang.
I committed a micro-law in the past and lost my job for a long time.
Now the Qiang and Rong are in danger, and the army is stationed in Xitun. I think that people like Pang Shen should be included in the army.
I hope that the Ming Dynasty will adopt the measures of the previous life, observe Wei Shang's contribution, pardon Pang Shen's punishment, and use it as a military vanguard, it will be effective and help the country's prestige.
Empress Dowager Deng accepted his words, immediately promoted Pang Shen from among his disciples, worshiped him as a visitor, asked him to go to the west to supervise the three auxiliary military camps, and summoned Deng Stallion back.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四年，羌寇转盛，兵费日广，且连年不登，谷石万余。
参奏记于邓骘曰：比年羌寇特困陇右，供徭赋役为损日滋，官负人责数十亿万。
今复募发百姓，调取谷帛，衒卖什物，以应吏求。
外伤羌虏，内困征赋。
遂乃千里转粮，远给武都西郡。
涂路倾阻，难劳百端，疾行则抄暴为害，迟进则谷食稍损，运粮散于旷野，牛马死于山泽。
县官不足，辄贷于民。
民已穷矣，将从谁求？
名救金城，而实困三辅。
三辅既困，还复为金城之祸矣。
参前数言宜弃西域，乃为西州士大夫所笑。
今苟贪不毛之地，营恤不使之民，暴军伊吾之野，以虑三族之外，果破凉州，祸乱至今。
夫拓境不宁，无益于强；多田不耕，何救饥敝！
故善为国者，务怀其内，不求外利；务富其民，不贪广土。
三辅山原旷远，民庶稀疏，故县丘城，可居者多。
今宜徙边郡不能自存者，入居诸陵，田戍故县。
孤城绝郡，以权徙之；转运远费，聚而近之；徭役烦数，休而息之。
此善之善者也。
translation: 
Four years later, the Qiang bandits came back again. Military expenditures were increasing, and the harvests had been poor year after year. Each stone of grain cost more than 50,000 yuan.
Pang Shen reported to Deng Zhi: "Qiang bandits have been particularly troublesome in Longyou in recent years. The expenditure on corvee taxes and services has been huge, and the government's debt has reached billions."
Now he collects grain and silk from the people and sells various items to meet the needs of the officials.
The Qiang captives were injured externally and trapped internally.
So he transported grain thousands of miles to the west county of Wudu.
The road is dangerous and there are too many difficulties. If you go fast, the money will be damaged, and if you go slowly, the grain will be damaged. The grain will be scattered in the wilderness, and the cattle and horses will die in the mountains and swamps.
There are not enough county officials, so they often borrow money from the people.
The people are already poor, who will they turn to for help?
In name, he rescued Jincheng, but actually trapped Sanfu.
Sanfu was already poor, which in turn became a disaster for Jincheng.
Shen had said several times before that the Western Regions should be abandoned, but he was laughed at by the scholar-bureaucrats in Xizhou.
Now if we covet the barren land, care about the useless people, let the army suffer in the Yiwu wilderness, and worry about the other three tribes, if Liangzhou is destroyed, the chaos will continue to this day.
The open borders are not peaceful and are of no benefit to the strength of the country; if there are many fields left uncultivated, how can we avoid famine!
Therefore, those who know how to govern a country must focus on the country and not seek external benefits; they must make the people rich and not greedy for the vast territory.
Sanfu Mountain is far away and the people are sparse, so the county is empty, but there are many places for people to live.
Nowadays, those border counties that cannot survive on their own should be moved to Zhuling and fields to garrison the old counties.
There are isolated cities and counties, so they are forced to move; it is expensive to transport people far away, but they gather together to get close; there are too many corvees, so let them rest.
This is the best of the best strategies.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
骘及公卿以国用不足，欲从参议，众多不同，乃止。
拜参为汉阳太守。
郡人任棠者，有奇节，隐居教授。
参到，先候之，棠不与言，但以薤一大本，水一盂，置户屏前，自抱孙兒伏于户下。
主簿白以为倨。
参思其微意良久，曰： 棠是欲晓太守也。水者，欲吾清也。
拔大本薤者，欲吾击强宗也。
抱兒当户，欲吾开门恤孤也。
于是叹息而还。
参在职，果能抑强助弱，以惠政得民。
元初元年，迁护羌校尉，畔羌怀其恩信。
明年，烧当羌种号多等皆降，始复得还都令居，通河西路。
时，先零羌豪僭号北地，诏参将降羌及湟中义从胡七千人，与行征西将军司马钧期会北地击之。
参于道为羌所败。
既已失期，乃称病引兵还，坐以诈疾征下狱。
校书郎中马融上书请之曰：伏见西戎反畔，寇抄五州，陛下愍百姓之伤痍，哀黎元之失业，单竭府库以奉军师。
translation: 
Deng Zhao and his ministers wanted to follow Pang Shen's suggestion due to insufficient state resources, but many people disagreed, so they stopped.
Later, he worshiped Pang Shen as the prefect of Hanyang.
Ren Tang, a county man, has a strange festival and lives in seclusion to teach apprentices.
When Pang Shen took office, he went to visit him first. Ren Tang didn't talk to him. He just placed a big book of sage and a bowl of water in front of the screen, and he lay down under the door with his grandson in his arms.
The chief clerk reported that Ren Tang was arrogant.
Pang Shen thought about his intention, and after a long time he said: "Ren Tang wants to tell the prefect: Shui, you want me to be innocent."
Pull out a big book of sage, and you want me to attack the powerful clan.
Holding a child in your arms, you want me to open the door and take pity on the orphan.
So he sighed and returned.
When Pang Shen was in office, he was indeed able to restrain the strong and help the weak, and win the hearts and minds of the people with favorable policies.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the captain of the Qiang Protector. The rebel Qiang missed his kindness.
The next year, many of the Shaodang Qiang people surrendered, and then they were allowed to return to their capital and live on the road to the west of the river.
At this time, the Xianling Qiang tyrants were arrogant in the north, and the imperial court ordered Shen to lead 7,000 Hu soldiers who surrendered to the Qiang and Huangzhong uprisings, and made an appointment with Sima Jun, the general who was marching to the west, to meet in the north to attack them.
Pang Shen was defeated by the Qiang people on the road.
He had missed his deadline, so he claimed he was ill and brought his troops back. He was called to jail for the crime of false illness.
Ma Rong, the school's doctor, wrote a request: "The Xirong rebelled and the bandits invaded the five states. Your Majesty sympathizes with the suffering of the people, mourns the unemployment of the people, and uses up all the property in the treasury to support the army."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔周宣猃狁侵镐及方，孝文匈奴亦略上郡，而宣王立中兴之功，文帝建太宗之号。
非惟两主有明睿之姿，抑亦扞城有虓虎之助，是以南仲赫赫，列在《周诗》，亚夫赳赳，载于汉策。
窃见前护羌校尉庞参，文武昭备，智略弘远，既有义勇果毅之节，兼以博雅深谋之姿。
又度辽将军粱，前统西域，勤苦数年，还留三辅，攻效克立，间在北边，单于降服。
今皆幽囚，陷于法网。
昔荀林父败绩于邲晋侯使复其位；孟明视丧师于崤，秦伯不替其官。
故晋景并赤狄之土，秦穆遂霸西戎。
宜远览二君，使参、得在宽宥之科，诚有益于折冲，毘佐于圣化。
书奏，赦参等。
后以参为辽东太守。
永建元年，迁度辽将军。
四年，入为大鸿胪。
尚书仆射虞诩荐参有宰相器能，以为太尉，录尚书事。
是时三公之中，参名忠直，数为左右所陷毁，以所举用忤帝旨，司隶承风案之。
时当会茂才孝廉，参以被奏，称疾不得会。
上计掾广汉段恭因会上疏曰： 伏见道路行人，农夫织妇，皆曰 太尉庞参，竭忠尽节，徒以直道不能曲心，孤立郡邪之间，自处中伤之地 。
translation: 
In the past, during the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, the yongnu invaded Haohe Fang. During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Xiongnu also invaded Shangjun. However, King Xuan made great contributions to the revival, and Emperor Wen established the title of Taizong.
Not only were the two emperors wise and talented, but also because of the help of the tiger generals who defended the city, "Nan Zhong Hehe" was listed in "Zhou Shi", and Yafu Jiujiu was recorded in Han Ce.
Pang Shen, the former guard of the Qiang School, was a versatile man of both civil and military talent and far-reaching intellect. He had both a sense of righteousness, bravery and perseverance, as well as a talent for erudition and profound planning.
He also conquered the Liao general Liang Jinjin. He had commanded the Western Regions and worked hard for several years. He returned and stayed in the third auxiliary. He was able to achieve results and was idle in the north. Chanyu surrendered.
Now they are all locked up and trapped in the legal system.
In the past, Xun Lin's father was defeated in Bi'an, and the Marquis of Jin restored his position; Meng Mingshi lost his division in Gu, but Qin Bo did not depose him.
Therefore, Jin Jing merged with Chi Di's land, and Qin Mu Gong dominated Xirong.
We should look at the two monarchs from a distance and allow Pang Shen and Liang Jinjin to be forgiven. This will indeed be beneficial to Zhechang and conducive to sanctification.
According to the memorial, Liang Jinjin and Pang Shen were pardoned.
Later, Pang Shen was appointed as the governor of Liaodong.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, he was promoted to general of Liao Dynasty.
Four years later, he entered the imperial court and became Da Honglu.
The minister's servant shot Yu Xu and recommended him, saying that he had the skills and talents of a prime minister. During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was appointed as a Taiwei to record the affairs of the minister.
At this time, among the three princes, Pang Shen had a reputation of being loyal and upright. He was framed and slandered many times by the left and right. He believed that the person he appointed was against the emperor's decree, so he was put under charge of Chengfeng.
At this time, the meeting was about Mao Cai, Xiao Lian, and Pang was imprisoned. He said that he was ill and could not meet at the meeting.
In the plan, Duan Gong of the Han Dynasty in Guangzhou met to clear the road: I saw people walking on the road, farmers and weavers, and they all said: Taiwei Pang Shen pays homage to his loyalty, but because of the straight road, he cannot do anything against his will, so he is isolated among the evil people, and he is in a place where he will be slandered.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣犹冀在陛下之世，当蒙安全，而复以谗佞伤毁忠正，此天地之大禁，人主之至诫。
昔白起赐死，诸侯酌酒相贺；季子来归，鲁人喜其纾难。
夫国以贤化，君以忠安。
今天下咸欣陛下有此忠贤，愿卒宠任，以安社稷。
书奏，诏即遣小黄门视参疾，太医致羊、酒。
后参夫人疾前妻子，投于井而杀之。
参素与洛阳令祝良不平，良闻之，率吏卒入太尉府案实其事，乃上参罪，遂因灾异策免。
有司以良不先闻奏，辄折辱宰相，坐系诏狱。
良能得百姓心，洛阳吏人守阙请代其罪者，日有数千万人，诏乃原刑。
阳嘉四年，复以参为太尉。
永和元年，以久病罢，卒于家。
陈龟字叔珍，上党泫氏人也。
translation: 
I also hope that I will be safe in Your Majesty's life, but because of the slanderous people, I hurt the loyal and upright people. This is the great prohibition of heaven and earth and the sincerity of the human master.
In the past, Bai Qi gave death, and the princes drank wine to congratulate each other; when Ji Zi came back, the people of Lu were happy that he had alleviated the national crisis.
The country is transformed because of its virtuous ministers, and its monarch is at peace because of its loyal ministers.
Today, everyone is happy that your Majesty has such a loyal and virtuous minister, and I hope that he will be favored and appointed in order to bring peace to the world.
According to the memorial, the imperial court sent Xiaohuangmen to monitor Pang Shen's illness, and sent an imperial doctor to deliver sheep wine.
Later, Pang Shen hated his ex-wife's son and threw him into a well to kill him.
Pang Shen had always been at loggerheads with Zhu Liang, the commander of Luoyang. When Zhu Liang heard about this, he led his officials into the Taiwei's Mansion to find out what was going on. He then reported Pang Shen's crime, and he was averted because of the disaster.
Some officials thought that Zhu Liang insulted the prime minister without reporting it first and was thrown into prison.
I wish Liang could win the hearts of the people, and Luoyang officials would guard the palace and ask for punishment, tens of millions of people every day, and they would be exempted from punishment according to the edict.
In the fourth year of Yangjia, Pang Shen was appointed as Taiwei.
In the first year of Yonghe, he was dismissed from office due to long illness and died at home.
◆Chen Gui's biography, Chen Gui's courtesy name is Shuzhen, and he was born in the Shangdang family.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
家世边将，便习弓马，雄于北州。
龟少有志气。
永建中，举孝廉，五迁五原太守。
永和五年，拜使匈奴中郎将。
时南匈奴左部反乱，龟以单于不能制下，外顺内畔，促令自杀，坐征下狱免。
后再迁，拜京兆尹。
时三辅强豪之族，多侵枉小民。
龟到，厉威严，悉平理其怨屈者，郡内大悦。
会羌胡寇边，杀长吏，驱略百姓，桓帝以龟世谙边俗，拜为度辽将军。
龟临行，上疏曰：臣龟蒙恩累世，驰聘边垂，虽展鹰犬之用，顿毙胡虏之庭，魂骸不返，荐享狐狸，犹无以塞厚责，答万分也。
translation: 
His family background was that of a border general. He learned to bow and horse since he was a child, and he dominated Beizhou.
Chen Gui was ambitious at a young age.
During the Yongjian period, he was promoted to Xiaolian, promoted five times, and became the prefect of Wuyuan.
In the fifth year of Yonghe's reign, he was appointed as Zhonglang General who was sent as envoy to the Xiongnu.
At that time, the left wing of the Southern Xiongnu was in rebellion. Gui believed that the Chanyu could not subdue his subordinates and was submissive on the outside but rebellious on the inside, prompting him to commit suicide. He was ordered to be jailed for committing a crime and was exempted from execution.
After being promoted twice, he was worshiped as Jing Zhaoyin.
At this time, the powerful clans of the three auxiliaries invaded the people many times.
When Chen Gui took office, he exercised great authority and tried all those who had suffered grievances. The people in the county were very happy.
When the Qiang and Hu invaded the border, they killed the officials and drove away and plundered the people. Emperor Huan believed that Chen Gui had been familiar with border customs for generations and worshiped him as the general who conquered Liao.
When Chen Gui was leaving, he said to the emperor: "I have received the emperor's favor and galloped on the border. Although I displayed the role of hawks and dogs, I died in the court of the barbarians. My soul did not return to the Han Dynasty. I used foxes as sacrifices, but I could not repay the emperor even one tenth of his kindness."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
臣至顽驽，器无铅刀一割之用，过受国恩，荣秩兼优，生年死日，永惧不报。
臣闻三辰不轨，擢士为相；蛮夷不恭，拔卒为将。
臣无文武之才，而忝鹰扬之任，上惭圣明，下惧素餐，虽殁躯体，无所云补。
今西州边鄙，土地，鞍马为居，射猎为业，男寡耕稼之利，女乏机杼之饶，守塞候望，悬命锋镝，闻急长驱，去不图反。
自顷年以来，匈奴数攻营郡，残杀长吏，侮略良细。
战夫身膏沙漠，居人首系马鞍。
或举国掩户，尽种灰灭，孤兒寡妇，号哭空城，野无青草，室如悬罄。
虽含生气，实同枯朽。
往岁并州水雨，灾螟互生，稼穑荒耗，租更空阙。
老者虑不终年，少壮惧于困厄。
translation: 
I am an extremely stubborn servant and cannot be cut with a lead knife. I have received favors from the country and have received superior honors and ranks. I am afraid that I will never be able to repay my favor when I am alive or on the day of my death.
I heard that Sanchen was unruly, so I promoted a scholar to be the prime minister; the barbarians were disrespectful, so I selected soldiers to be generals.
I have no talents in civil and military affairs, but I have fulfilled my responsibilities as an eagle. I am ashamed of my sage, and I am afraid of vegetarian food. Even if I try my best and die, it will not be of any benefit.
Today, in the border areas of Xizhou, the land is barren. The people are accustomed to saddle horses and hunt as their occupation. The men do not know how to farm and the women do not know how to weave. They guard the fortress and wait, hanging on the edge of the sword. They hear urgent orders and drive for a long time. After leaving, they do not want to come back.
In recent years, the Huns have attacked the camp headquarters several times, killing officials and plundering the people.
Soldiers die in the desert, and residents hang their saddles on their heads.
In some places, corpses are buried all over the country, and all kinds of things are wiped out. Orphans and widows cry in empty cities. There is no green grass in the fields, and the houses are like hanging chimes.
Even if there is still life, it is like a dead tree.
In previous years, there was too much rain in Bingzhou, causing damage caused by plague borers. The crops were wasted and the rents and taxes were vacant.
The old are worried that they will not live to be old, and the young are afraid of being in trouble.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
陛下以百姓为子，品庶以陛下为父，焉可不日昊劳神，垂抚循之恩哉！
唐尧亲舍其子以禅虞舜者，是欲民遭圣君，不令遇恶主也。
故古公杖策，其民五倍；文王西伯，天下归之。
岂复舆金辇宝，以为民惠乎！
近孝文皇帝感一女子之言，除肉刑之法，体德行仁，为汉贤主。
陛下继中兴之统，承光武之业，临朝听政，而未留圣意。
且牧守不良，或出中官，惧逆上旨，取过目前。
呼嗟之声，招致灾害，胡虏凶悍，因衰缘隙。
而令仓库单于豺狼之口，功业无铢两之效，皆由将帅不忠，聚奸所致。
前凉州刺史祝良，初除到州，多所纠罚，太守令长，贬黜将半，政未逾时，功效卓然。
实应赏异，以劝功能，改任牧守，去斥奸残。
translation: 
Your Majesty regards the common people as your sons, and the common people regard you as their father. How can you not work hard every day and appreciate the kindness of Xun?
Emperor Yao of the Tang Dynasty gave up his throne to Yu Shun, his son, because he wanted the people to meet a sage king instead of a tyrant.
Therefore, when the ancient father-in-law moved to Qishan, the number of people flocking to him increased five times compared with before. King Wen Xibo practiced benevolent government, and the people of the world joined him.
Do you want to use gold chariots and treasures to show kindness to the people?
Recently, Emperor Xiaowen was moved by the words of a woman named Tiying. He abolished the law of corporal punishment, practiced morality and benevolence, and became a wise king in the Han Dynasty.
Your Majesty inherited the tradition of Zhongxing, inherited the foundation of Emperor Guangwu, and took charge of government affairs without retaining the holy will.
Moreover, if the pastoral care is not good, or if he becomes a middle-ranking official, he is afraid of disobeying the will and takes over the present.
The sound of shouting brings disaster, and the barbarians are fierce and take advantage of the weakness.
However, the treasury fell into the mouths of jackals and the merits had no effect. This was all due to the disloyalty of the generals and the gathering of traitors.
When Zhu Liang, the former governor of Liangzhou, first arrived in the prefecture and county, he was punished many times and nearly half of the prefectural commanders were demoted. His administration was not outdated and his results were remarkable.
He should be rewarded to encourage meritorious people to be appointed as shepherds and guardians to scold the traitors and cripples.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
又宜更选匈奴乌桓护羌中郎将校尉，简练文武，授之法令，除并、凉二州今年租更，宽赦罪隶，扫除更始。
则善吏知奉公之祐，恶者觉营私之祸，胡马可不窥长城，塞下无候望之患矣。
帝觉悟，乃更选幽、并刺史，自营郡太守都尉以下，多所革易，下诏 为陈将军除并、凉一年租赋，以赐吏民 。
龟既到职，州郡重足震栗，鲜卑不敢近塞，省息经用，岁以亿计。
大将军梁冀与龟素有隙，谮其沮毁国威，挑取功誉，不为胡虏所畏。
坐征还，遂乞骸骨归田里。
复征为尚书。
冀暴虐日甚，龟上疏言其罪状，请诛之。
帝不省。
自知必为冀所害，不食七日而死。
西域胡夷，并、凉民庶，咸为举哀，吊祭其墓。
桥玄字公祖，梁国睢阳人也。
translation: 
It is also necessary to select more generals and lieutenants from the Huns and Wuhuan to protect the Qiang. They should be concise in civil and military affairs and give them laws. In addition to the two states of Liang and Liang, they should be rented this year. They should be pardoned and punished.
Then the good officials know how to serve the public, and the evil people know the harm of selfishness. Hu Ma can't peek at the Great Wall, and there is no danger of waiting behind the wall.
The emperor was awakened, so he selected the governors of Youzhou and Bingzhou, and appointed them as prefects and governors of their own counties and below. Many of them were dismissed. He issued an edict to General Chen to reduce the one-year rent of Bingzhou and Liangzhou in order to give it to the officials and the people.
After Chen Gui took office, the prefectures and counties were so scared that Xianbei did not dare to approach the frontiers, thus saving hundreds of millions of dollars in interest and expenses every year.
General Liang Ji had a long-standing quarrel with Chen Gui, and he told the monarch that Chen Gui had destroyed the country's prestige and gained fame alone, and was not feared by the barbarians.
Chen Gui was recalled and asked to retire and return to his hometown.
Later, he became a minister.
Liang Ji's tyranny increased day by day. Chen Gui explained his crimes and asked for his death.
The emperor is not aware.
Chen Gui knew that he would be killed by Liang Ji, so he went on a hunger strike for seven days and died.
The Hu barbarians in the Western Regions and the people in Bingzhou and Liangzhou all mourned for him and paid homage to his grave.
◆The biography of Qiao Xuan, the ancestor of Qiao Xuan, was a native of Suiyang, Liang State.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
七世祖仁，从同郡戴德学，著《礼记章句》四十九篇，号曰 桥君学 。
成帝时为大鸿胪。
祖父基，广陵太守。
父肃，东莱太守。
玄少为县功曹。
时豫州刺史周景行部到梁国，玄谒景，因伏地言陈相羊昌罪恶，乞为部陈从事，穷案其奸。
景壮玄意，署而遣之。
玄到，悉收昌宾客，具考臧罪。
昌素为大将军梁冀所厚，冀为驰檄救之。
景承旨召玄，玄还檄不发，案之益急。
昌坐槛车征，玄由是著名。
举孝廉，补洛阳左尉。
时梁不疑为河南尹，玄以公事当诣府受对，耻为所辱，弃官还乡里。
后四迁为齐相，坐事为城旦。
刑竟，征，再迁上谷太守，又为汉阳太守。
时上令皇甫祯有臧罪，玄收考髡笞，死于冀市，一境皆震。
郡人上姜岐，守道隐居，名闻西州。
玄召以为吏，称疾不就。
玄怒，敕督邮尹益逼致之，曰： 岐若不至，趣嫁其母。
益固争不能得，遽晓譬岐。
岐坚卧不起。
郡内士大夫亦竞往谏，玄乃止。
时颇以为讥。
translation: 
Qiao Ren, the seventh generation ancestor, learned from Dade in the same county and wrote forty-nine chapters of "Book of Rites", known as "Qiao Jun Xue".
When he became emperor, he became Dahonglu.
Grandfather Qiao Ji served as the prefect of Guangling.
My father was serious and had served as the governor of Donglai.
Qiao Xuan was a county meritorious official when he was young.
At that time, Zhou Jingxing, the governor of Yuzhou, went to Liang State. Qiao Xuan paid a visit to Zhou Jing, so he lay down on the ground and told Chen Xiang Yangchang's crimes, and asked to be the leader of Chen to conduct an in-depth investigation of his crimes.
Zhou Jing thought Qiao Xuan was very brave, so he wrote his name and dispatched him.
After Qiao Xuan arrived, he arrested all Yangchang's guests and interrogated Zang Zui in detail.
Yang Chang had always had a close friendship with General Liang Ji, and Liang Ji rushed to the rescue for him.
Zhou Jing summoned Xuan according to the order, but Qiao Xuan still didn't say anything, so the investigation became more urgent.
Yangchang rode in a carriage to answer the call, and Qiaoxuan became famous from then on.
Qiao Xuan was promoted to Xiaolian and supplemented Luoyang Zuowei.
At this time, Liang Buyi became the Yin of Henan Province, and Qiao Xuan went to the government for official duties. He did not want to suffer the humiliation, so he abandoned his official position and returned to his hometown.
Later, he was promoted to Qi Xiang four times, and was punished as Cheng Dan for committing crimes.
After his sentence was completed, he was conscripted, promoted to the governor of Shanggu, and then the governor of Hanyang.
At this time, Shang Guizhen ordered Huangfuzhen to be guilty of Zang. Qiao Xuan arrested him and punished him with whippings and other punishments. He died in the city of Ji County, which shocked the whole country.
Jiang Qi, a native of the county, lived in seclusion and guarded the road, and his reputation spread throughout Xizhou.
Qiao Xuan called him an official, but he refused to come out because he was ill.
Qiao Xuan was angry and ordered the governor Yin Yi to force him, saying: If Jiang Qi doesn't come, he will marry his mother.
Yin Yi insisted on trying not to get it, and quickly enlightened Jiang Qi.
Qi Jian couldn't get up.
The scholar-bureaucrats in the county also tried to dissuade him, and Qiao Xuan stopped his action.
People were quite ridiculed at that time.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
后谢病免，复公车征为司徒长史，拜将作大匠。
桓帝末，鲜卑、南匈奴及高句骊嗣子伯固并畔，为寇抄，四府举玄为度辽将军，假黄钺。
玄至镇，休兵养士，然后督诸将守讨击胡虏及伯固等，皆破散退走。
在职三年，边境安静。
灵帝初，征入为河南尹，转少府、大鸿胪。
建宁三年，迁司空，转司徒。
素与南阳太守陈球有隙，及在公位，而荐球为廷尉。
玄以国家方弱，自度力无所用，乃称疾上疏，引众灾以自劾。
遂策罢。
岁余，拜尚书令。
时太中大夫盖升与帝有旧恩，前为南阳太守，臧数亿以上。
玄奏免升禁锢，没入财贿。
帝不从，而迁升侍中。
玄托病免，拜光禄大夫。
光和元年，迁太尉。
数月，复以疾罢，拜太中大夫，就医里舍。
translation: 
Later, Xie was dismissed due to illness and was summoned to the post of Chief Situ in a public car. He was worshiped as a general and a great craftsman.
In the last years of Emperor Huan's reign, the Xianbei, Southern Xiongnu and Gaogouli's heir Bogu rebelled together and became bandits. The four prefectures held Qiao Xuan as the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty and faked Huang Yue.
When Qiao Xuan arrived at the town, he rested his troops to recuperate his troops, and then supervised the generals to attack the Hulu and Bo Gu. They were all defeated and retreated.
After three years in office, the border is quiet.
In the early years of Emperor Ling's reign, he was summoned to serve as the magistrate of Henan, transferred to the Shaofu, and made Dahonglu.
In the third year of Jianning, he was promoted to Sikong and transferred to Situ.
Qiao Xuan had always had a quarrel with Chen Qiu, the prefect of Nanyang. When he was in the position of Sangong, he recommended Chen Qiu to be the court captain.
Qiao Xuan believed that the country was weak and his own strength was useless, so he blamed himself for causing disasters by claiming that he was ill and neglected.
So let's do it.
After more than a year, he became the minister.
At that time, Gai Sheng, a senior official in Taizhong, had an old relationship with the emperor. He was the prefect of Nanyang and gained hundreds of millions in stolen goods.
Qiao Xuanzhuo asked Gai Sheng to be removed from his post and imprisoned, confiscating his financial bribes.
The emperor disagreed and promoted Gai Sheng to be a servant.
Qiao Xuan was dismissed from his post due to illness and became a doctor of Guanglu.
In the first year of Guanghe, he was promoted to Taiwei.
A few months later, he resigned from office due to illness, became a Taizhong doctor, and sought medical treatment.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
玄少子十岁，独游门次，卒有三人持杖劫执之，入舍登楼，就玄求货，玄不与。
有顷，司隶校尉阳球率河南尹、洛阳令围守玄家。
球等恐并杀其子，未欲迫之。
玄目呼曰： 奸人无状，玄岂以一子之命而纵国贼乎！
促令兵进。
于是攻之，玄子亦死。
玄乃诣阙谢罪，乞下天下： 凡有劫质，皆并杀之，不得赎以财宝，开张奸路。
诏书下其章。初自安帝以后，法禁稍，京师劫质，不避豪贵，自是遂绝。
玄以光和六年卒，时年七十五。
玄性刚急无大体，然谦俭下士，子弟亲宗无在大官者。
及卒，家无居业，丧无所殡，当时称之。
初，曹操微时，人莫知者。尝往候玄，玄见而异焉。谓曰： 今天下将乱，安生民者其在君乎！
操常感其知己。
及后经过玄墓，辄凄怆致祭。
自为其文曰： 故太尉桥公，懿德高轨，泛爱博容。
国念明训，士思令谟。
幽灵潜翳，哉缅矣！
操以幼年，逮升堂室，特以顽质，见纳君子。
增荣益观，皆由奖助，犹仲尼称不如颜渊，李生厚叹贾复。
translation: 
Qiao Xuan's youngest son was ten years old and was traveling alone. Three men with sticks kidnapped him, took him to a house and climbed a building, and asked Qiao Xuan for his property, but Qiao Xuan refused to give it.
Soon, Sili Colonel Chen Qiu led Henan Yin and Luoyang orders to surround and guard Qiaoxuan's house.
Qiu and others were afraid of killing his son as well and did not want to force him.
Qiao Xuan stared and shouted: "Traitors have no law, how can I let go of a national traitor just because of the life of a son?"
Urging the troops to advance.
So they attacked and Qiao Xuan's son also died.
Qiao Xuan then went to the court to apologize and asked for an order to the world: anyone who robbed hostages should be killed together, and no treasures could be used to atone for sins or open up a treacherous path.
This memorial was written in the imperial edict. At first, after Emperor An, the laws and regulations were slightly relaxed, and the capital officials robbed hostages and did not avoid the homes of rich and noble people. From then on, there was no such thing.
Qiao Xuan died in the sixth year of Guanghe at the age of seventy-five.
Qiao Xuan's personality was impetuous and careless, but he was humble, thrifty, courteous and virtuous. None of his descendants became high-ranking officials.
When he died, his family had little property and there was no funeral ceremony. At that time, people praised him.
At first, when Cao Cao was humble, no one knew that he had visited Qiao Xuan to greet him. Qiao Xuan felt a little strange when he saw him, and said to him: Now the world is about to be in chaos, and you must be the one who stabilizes the people!
Cao Cao was often grateful that he was a confidant.
Later, I passed Qiao Xuan's tomb and paid homage sadly.
I wrote a memorial poem myself and said: Therefore, Taiwei Qiaogong was a man of noble virtue and great love.
The country thinks clearly about the instructions, and the scholars think about the instructions.
The ghost is still there, but the beauty is far away.
When Cao Cao was young, he came to the emperor's room and was appreciated by the emperor because of his stubbornness.
Increased glory is all rewarded, which is equivalent to Confucius saying that he is not as good as Yan Yuan, and Li Shenghou sighed at Jia Fu.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
士死知己，怀此无忘。
又承从容约誓之言： 徂没之后，路有经由，不以斗酒只鸡过相沃酹，车过三步，腹痛勿怨。
虽临时戏笑之言，非至亲之笃好，胡肯为此辞哉？
怀旧惟顾，念之凄怆。
奉命东征，屯次乡里，北望贵土，乃心陵墓。
裁致薄奠，公其享之！
玄子羽，官至任城相。
translation: 
A man dies for his close friend, and will never forget this.
He also promised to take the oath: After I die, when you pass by, you don't have to fight with wine and chickens to pay tribute. After passing three steps, you won't complain about your stomachache.
Although it was a temporary joke, how could he say it if he was not a close relative?
I miss my old relationship and feel sad.
I was ordered to march eastward and stationed myself in the countryside, looking north to the precious land and my heart to the mausoleum.
Cut it to a thin layer and enjoy it publicly!
Qiao Yu, the son of Qiao Xuan, became the Prime Minister of the city.


