Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 13, 15]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
李恂字叔英，安定临泾人也。
少习《韩诗》，教授诸生常数百人。
太守颍川李鸿请署功曹，未及到，而州辟为从事。
会鸿卒，恂不应州命，而送鸿丧还乡里。
既葬，留起冢坟，持丧三年。
辟司徒桓虞府。
后拜侍御史，持节使幽州，宣布恩泽，慰抚北狄，所过皆图写山川、屯田、聚落百余卷，悉封奏上，肃宗嘉之。拜兗州刺史。
以清约率下，常席羊皮，服布被。
迁张掖太守，有威重名。
时大将军窦宪将兵屯武威，天下州郡远近莫不修礼遗，恂奉公不阿，为宪所奏免。
后复征拜谒者，使持节领西域副校尉。
西域殷富，多珍宝，诸国侍子及督使贾胡数遗恂奴婢、宛马、金银、香罽之属，一无所受。
北匈奴数断西域车师、伊吾，陇沙以西使命不得通，恂设购赏，遂斩虏帅，悬首军门。
translation: 
◆In the biography of Li Xun, Li Xun was born in Linjing, Anding.
He studied "Han Shi" at a young age and taught hundreds of students.
Li Hong, the prefect of Yingchuan, asked Li Xun to be appointed as a meritorious official. However, he failed to take up the post, and the prefecture called him to work.
When Li Hong died, Li Xun responded to the state's order and sent Li Hong back to his hometown for his funeral.
He has been buried, and the grave has been left to mourn for three years.
Later Li Xun was called into Situ Huanyu's mansion.
Later he was promoted to the imperial censor, and he went to Youzhou as an envoy to declare the emperor's favor and comfort Beidi. Wherever he went, he described the mountains and rivers, as well as the conditions of villages and settlements, etc., in more than a hundred volumes, all of which were sealed. Emperor Suzong commended him and appointed him as the governor of Yanzhou.
He set an example by keeping promises, often using sheepskin as a mat and a quilt as a cover.
He was promoted to the governor of Zhangye and gained a prestigious reputation.
At that time, General Dou Xian and his soldiers were stationed in Wuwei. No matter how far or near the country was, no one in the country did not practice rituals and gifts of property. Li Xun was not loyal to his duty and was dismissed by Dou Xian.
Later, he was recruited as a visitor and made Chijie the captain of the Western Regions.
The Western Region was rich and rich, and there were many treasures. The servants and envoys of various countries and merchants from Hu Dynasty gave Li Xun many things such as slaves, horses, gold, silver, and fragrant yokes, but Li Xun refused to accept any of them.
The Northern Xiongnu cut off Cheshi and Yiwu in the Western Regions several times, and missions in the area west of Longsha were blocked. Li Xun offered a reward, so he beheaded the commander and hung his head at the military gate.

summary:
summary line 0: Li Xun was born in Linjing, Anding, and studied "Han Shi" from a young age, teaching hundreds of students. He was appointed as a meritorious official by Prefect Li Hong of Yingchuan but failed to take up the post initially. After Li Hong's death, Li Xun served three years of mourning at his grave. He later served in Situ Huanyu's mansion and was promoted to imperial censor, traveling to Youzhou and Beidi to declare the emperor's favor. He documented mountains, rivers, and villages in over a hundred volumes. Emperor Suzong appointed him governor of Yanzhou, where he lived frugally with sheepskin mats and quilts. He was later promoted to governor of Zhangye with a prestigious reputation.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
李恂字叔英，安定临泾人也。
少习《韩诗》，教授诸生常数百人。
太守颍川李鸿请署功曹，未及到，而州辟为从事。
会鸿卒，恂不应州命，而送鸿丧还乡里。
既葬，留起冢坟，持丧三年。
辟司徒桓虞府。
后拜侍御史，持节使幽州，宣布恩泽，慰抚北狄，所过皆图写山川、屯田、聚落百余卷，悉封奏上，肃宗嘉之。拜兗州刺史。
以清约率下，常席羊皮，服布被。
迁张掖太守，有威重名。
时大将军窦宪将兵屯武威，天下州郡远近莫不修礼遗，恂奉公不阿，为宪所奏免。
后复征拜谒者，使持节领西域副校尉。
西域殷富，多珍宝，诸国侍子及督使贾胡数遗恂奴婢、宛马、金银、香罽之属，一无所受。
北匈奴数断西域车师、伊吾，陇沙以西使命不得通，恂设购赏，遂斩虏帅，悬首军门。
translation: 
◆In the biography of Li Xun, Li Xun was born in Linjing, Anding.
He studied "Han Shi" at a young age and taught hundreds of students.
Li Hong, the prefect of Yingchuan, asked Li Xun to be appointed as a meritorious official. However, he failed to take up the post, and the prefecture called him to work.
When Li Hong died, Li Xun responded to the state's order and sent Li Hong back to his hometown for his funeral.
He has been buried, and the grave has been left to mourn for three years.
Later Li Xun was called into Situ Huanyu's mansion.
Later he was promoted to the imperial censor, and he went to Youzhou as an envoy to declare the emperor's favor and comfort Beidi. Wherever he went, he described the mountains and rivers, as well as the conditions of villages and settlements, etc., in more than a hundred volumes, all of which were sealed. Emperor Suzong commended him and appointed him as the governor of Yanzhou.
He set an example by keeping promises, often using sheepskin as a mat and a quilt as a cover.
He was promoted to the governor of Zhangye and gained a prestigious reputation.
At that time, General Dou Xian and his soldiers were stationed in Wuwei. No matter how far or near the country was, no one in the country did not practice rituals and gifts of property. Li Xun was not loyal to his duty and was dismissed by Dou Xian.
Later, he was recruited as a visitor and made Chijie the captain of the Western Regions.
The Western Region was rich and rich, and there were many treasures. The servants and envoys of various countries and merchants from Hu Dynasty gave Li Xun many things such as slaves, horses, gold, silver, and fragrant yokes, but Li Xun refused to accept any of them.
The Northern Xiongnu cut off Cheshi and Yiwu in the Western Regions several times, and missions in the area west of Longsha were blocked. Li Xun offered a reward, so he beheaded the commander and hung his head at the military gate.

summary:
summary line 1: When General Dou Xian stationed troops in Wuwei, Li Xun refused to participate in corrupt gift-giving practices and was dismissed. He was later recruited as a visitor and made captain of the Western Regions. Despite receiving many valuable gifts from foreign envoys and merchants, he refused all of them. When the Northern Xiongnu cut off routes to Cheshi and Yiwu, Li Xun offered rewards, resulting in the enemy commander's beheading. The roads became clear, and his kindness and power spread. He later became prefect of Wuwei but was dismissed and walked home, living in seclusion and weaving mats. When the Xiqiang rebelled, he was captured but released due to his reputation. During a famine, he refused grain from officials, moved to Xin'an Pass, and ate acorns. He died at age ninety-six.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
自是道路夷清，威恩并行。
迁武威太守。
后坐事免，步归乡里，潜居山泽，结草为庐，独与诸生织席自给。
会西羌反畔，恂到田舍，为所执获。
羌素闻其名，放遣之。
恂因诣洛阳谢。
时岁荒，司空张敏、司徒鲁恭等各遣子馈粮，悉无所受。
徙居新安关下，拾橡实以自资。
年九十六卒。
陈禅字纪山，巴郡安汉人也。
仕郡功曹，举善黜恶，为邦内所畏。
察孝廉，州辟治中从事。
时刺史为人所上受纳臧赂，禅当传考，无它所赍，但持丧敛之具而已。
及至，笞掠无算，五毒毕加，禅神意自若，辞对无变，事遂散释。
车骑将军邓骘闻其名而辟焉，举茂才。
时汉中蛮夷反畔，以禅为汉中太守。
夷贼素闻其声，即时降服。
translation: 
From then on, the road was clear and smooth, and kindness and power flowed side by side.
Later he moved to Wuwei to be the prefect.
He was dismissed from his post for some reason and walked back to his hometown. He lived in seclusion in the mountains and swamps, making a hut from grass and weaving mats with other people to support himself.
When the Xiqiang rebelled, Li Xun went to the farm and was captured by the Qiang people.
The Qiang people always heard Xun's name and sent him away.
Xun went to Luoyang to express his gratitude.
At that time, there was a famine. Sikong Zhang Min, Situ Lu Gong and other sons sent grain to Xun, but Xun did not accept it.
He moved to Xin'an Pass and picked up acorns to fill his stomach.
Died at the age of ninety-six.
◆Chen Chan's biography, Chen Chan's courtesy name is Jishan, and he was a native of Anhan, Ba County.
He was a meritorious officer in the county, doing good and punishing evil, and was feared by the people in the country.
He was inspected for being filial and honest, and he was appointed in the state to be engaged in governance.
At that time, the governor was accused of accepting bribes, and Chen Chan should be arrested and investigated. He had no property, just some funeral utensils.
After arriving, the plunder was in vain, all the five poisons were used, the Zen mind was at ease, the confession remained unchanged, and the case was solved.
Deng Zhi, the general of chariots and cavalry, heard about his reputation and summoned him, making him a talented person.
At that time, the barbarians in Hanzhong rebelled and made Chen Chan the governor of Hanzhong.
The barbarians always surrendered immediately when they heard about his reputation.

summary:
summary line 2: Chen Chan, courtesy name Jishan, was from Anhan, Ba County. As a county meritorious officer, he punished evil and was feared by the people. After being recommended as filial and incorruptible, he served in the state government. When the governor was accused of bribery, Chen Chan was arrested for investigation but remained composed under torture, maintaining his confession. General Deng Zhi summoned him. When barbarians rebelled in Hanzhong, Chen Chan became governor, and they surrendered upon hearing his reputation. He was promoted to Zuo Fengyi and became an admonishing doctor.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
迁左冯翊，入拜谏议大夫。
永宁元年，西南夷掸国王献乐及幻人，能吐火，自支解，易牛马头。
明年元会，作之于庭，安帝与群臣共观，大奇之。
禅独离席举手大言曰： 昔齐、鲁为夹谷之会，齐作侏儒之乐，仲尼诛之。
又曰： 放郑声，远佞人。
帝王之庭，不宜设夷狄之技。
尚书陈忠劾奏禅曰： 古者合欢之乐舞于堂，四夷之乐陈于门，故《诗》云 以《雅》以《南》，《韎》、《任》、《朱离》 。
今掸国越流沙，逾县度，万里贡献，非郑、卫之声，佞人之比，而禅廷讪朝政，请劾禅下狱。
有诏勿收，左转为玄菟候城障尉，诏 敢不之官，上妻子从者名 。
禅既行，朝廷多讼之。
会北匈奴入辽东，追拜禅辽东太守。
translation: 
Chen Chan was promoted to Zuo Fengyi and entered the court to worship as an admonishing doctor.
In the first year of Yongning, the king of the Shan Dynasty in the southwest presented music and illusions to people who could spit fire, dismember their bodies, and replace the heads of cattle and horses.
In the second year of Yuanhui, there was a performance in the court. Emperor An and his ministers watched it together and found it strange.
Chen Chan left the table alone and raised his hands and said loudly: In the past, Qi and Lu had a meeting in the valley, and Qi was enjoying the dwarfs. Confucius took photos of ministers and thought it was an insult to the princes, so he beheaded the dwarfs.
He also said: If you listen to the sound of Zheng, you will be far away from the sycophants.
It is not appropriate for the imperial court to have the skills of barbarians and Di.
Shangshu Chen Zhonggai reported to Chen Chan: In ancient times, the music of Hehuan was danced in the hall, and the music of the four barbarians was played in the door. Therefore, the Book of Songs said: To the south of Yiya, Zhu Li was appointed in the late Wei Dynasty.
Today, the Shan State passes through the Liusha River and crosses the county mountains, coming thousands of miles to contribute. It is not the voice of Zheng Wei, it is comparable to the sycophants, but Chen Chan ridiculed the government in the court, and asked Chen Chan to be impeached and imprisoned.
There was an edict stating that arrests were not allowed and he was demoted to the rank of Xuantuhou Chengzhaowei. The edict said: If you dare not take up the post, report the name of your wife's servant.
Chen Chan has already set off, and the court is accusing him.
When the Northern Huns invaded Liaodong, they pursued Chen Chan as the governor of Liaodong.

summary:
summary line 3: In the first year of Yongning, the Shan Kingdom presented performers who could spit fire and perform illusions. In the second year of Yuanhui, Emperor An watched these performances. Chen Chan protested, citing Confucius's execution of dwarfs at the Qi-Lu meeting and arguing that barbarian skills were inappropriate for court. Shangshu Chen Zhonggai defended the performances as legitimate tribute and requested Chen Chan's impeachment. The emperor demoted Chen Chan to Xuantuhou Chengzhaowei. When the Northern Huns invaded Liaodong, Chen Chan became governor. The Hu people retreated in fear, and Chen Chan used moral influence to persuade the Chanyu, who sent treasures. After Deng Zhao's death, Chen Chan was dismissed as Deng's former official. He later served under Yan Xian and was promoted to Sili Xiaowei under Emperor Shun, dying in office the following year.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
胡惮其威强，退还数百里。
禅不加兵，但使吏卒往晓慰之，单于随使还郡。
禅于学行礼，为说道义以感化之。
单于怀服，遗以胡中珍货而去。
及邓骘诛废，禅以故吏免。
复为车骑将军阎显长史。
顺帝即位，迁司隶校尉。
明年，卒于官。
子澄，有清名，官至汉中太守。
庞参字仲达，河南缑氏人也。
初仕郡，未知名，河南尹庞奋见而奇之，举为孝廉，拜左校令。
坐法输作若卢。
永初元年，凉州先零种羌反畔，遣车骑将军邓骘讨之。
参于徒中使其子俊上书曰：方今西州流民扰动，而征发不绝，水潦不休，地力不复。
重之以大军，疲之以远戍，农功消于转运，资财竭于征发。
田畴不得垦辞，禾稼不得收入，搏手困穷，无望来秋。
百姓力屈，不复堪命。
translation: 
The Hu people were afraid of his power and retreated hundreds of miles.
Chen Chan did not add troops to pursue them, but only sent officers and soldiers to Xiaoyu to comfort them. Chanyu followed the envoy back to the county.
Chen Chan studied etiquette and taught moral principles to influence them.
Chanyu was convinced and sent away some of Hu's treasures.
Later, Deng Zhao was killed, and Chen Chan was dismissed from office because he was Deng's former official.
He also made a long history of the chariot and cavalry general Yan Xian.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and was promoted to Sili Xiaowei.
The next year, he died in the government.
His son, Chen Cheng, had a clear name and became the prefect of Hanzhong.
◆Pang Can's biography, Pang Can's courtesy name is Zhongda, and he was a native of Fengshi, Henan.
He began to serve as an official there, and was unknown. Henan Yin Pangfen saw it and thought it was strange. He promoted him to Xiaolian and worshiped him as Zuo Xiaoling.
He broke the law and was sent to Ruolu Prison.
In the first year of Yongchu, the Zhongqiang people in Liangzhou rebelled, and the imperial court sent cavalry general Deng Zhi to attack them.
When Pang Shen was in exile, he sent his son Pang Jun to write: "Nowadays, the refugees in Xizhou are causing disturbances, the conscription continues, the water supply continues, and the soil does not recover."
In addition, the army was deployed, the distant garrison was very tired, the farm work was busy transferring, and all the resources were exhausted.
The fields cannot be cultivated, the crops cannot be harvested, there is no plan, and there is no hope for autumn.
The people were exhausted and could not bear it.

summary:
summary line 4: Pang Can, courtesy name Zhongda, was from Fengshi, Henan. He began as an obscure official until Henan Yin Pangfen promoted him to Xiaolian and Zuo Xiaoling. After breaking the law and being imprisoned, during the Yongchu period when the Zhongqiang people rebelled, Pang Can sent his son with a memorial advising against distant military campaigns and advocating for gathering troops to support the people. The imperial censor Fan Zhunshang recommended him, comparing him to Wei Shang. Empress Dowager Deng promoted him to visitor and sent him west to supervise military camps.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔周宣猃狁侵镐及方，孝文匈奴亦略上郡，而宣王立中兴之功，文帝建太宗之号。
非惟两主有明睿之姿，抑亦扞城有虓虎之助，是以南仲赫赫，列在《周诗》，亚夫赳赳，载于汉策。
窃见前护羌校尉庞参，文武昭备，智略弘远，既有义勇果毅之节，兼以博雅深谋之姿。
又度辽将军粱，前统西域，勤苦数年，还留三辅，攻效克立，间在北边，单于降服。
今皆幽囚，陷于法网。
昔荀林父败绩于邲晋侯使复其位；孟明视丧师于崤，秦伯不替其官。
故晋景并赤狄之土，秦穆遂霸西戎。
宜远览二君，使参、得在宽宥之科，诚有益于折冲，毘佐于圣化。
书奏，赦参等。
后以参为辽东太守。
永建元年，迁度辽将军。
四年，入为大鸿胪。
尚书仆射虞诩荐参有宰相器能，以为太尉，录尚书事。
是时三公之中，参名忠直，数为左右所陷毁，以所举用忤帝旨，司隶承风案之。
时当会茂才孝廉，参以被奏，称疾不得会。
上计掾广汉段恭因会上疏曰： 伏见道路行人，农夫织妇，皆曰 太尉庞参，竭忠尽节，徒以直道不能曲心，孤立郡邪之间，自处中伤之地 。
translation: 
In the past, during the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, the yongnu invaded Haohe Fang. During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Xiongnu also invaded Shangjun. However, King Xuan made great contributions to the revival, and Emperor Wen established the title of Taizong.
Not only were the two emperors wise and talented, but also because of the help of the tiger generals who defended the city, "Nan Zhong Hehe" was listed in "Zhou Shi", and Yafu Jiujiu was recorded in Han Ce.
Pang Shen, the former guard of the Qiang School, was a versatile man of both civil and military talent and far-reaching intellect. He had both a sense of righteousness, bravery and perseverance, as well as a talent for erudition and profound planning.
He also conquered the Liao general Liang Jinjin. He had commanded the Western Regions and worked hard for several years. He returned and stayed in the third auxiliary. He was able to achieve results and was idle in the north. Chanyu surrendered.
Now they are all locked up and trapped in the legal system.
In the past, Xun Lin's father was defeated in Bi'an, and the Marquis of Jin restored his position; Meng Mingshi lost his division in Gu, but Qin Bo did not depose him.
Therefore, Jin Jing merged with Chi Di's land, and Qin Mu Gong dominated Xirong.
We should look at the two monarchs from a distance and allow Pang Shen and Liang Jinjin to be forgiven. This will indeed be beneficial to Zhechang and conducive to sanctification.
According to the memorial, Liang Jinjin and Pang Shen were pardoned.
Later, Pang Shen was appointed as the governor of Liaodong.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, he was promoted to general of Liao Dynasty.
Four years later, he entered the imperial court and became Da Honglu.
The minister's servant shot Yu Xu and recommended him, saying that he had the skills and talents of a prime minister. During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was appointed as a Taiwei to record the affairs of the minister.
At this time, among the three princes, Pang Shen had a reputation of being loyal and upright. He was framed and slandered many times by the left and right. He believed that the person he appointed was against the emperor's decree, so he was put under charge of Chengfeng.
At this time, the meeting was about Mao Cai, Xiao Lian, and Pang was imprisoned. He said that he was ill and could not meet at the meeting.
In the plan, Duan Gong of the Han Dynasty in Guangzhou met to clear the road: I saw people walking on the road, farmers and weavers, and they all said: Taiwei Pang Shen pays homage to his loyalty, but because of the straight road, he cannot do anything against his will, so he is isolated among the evil people, and he is in a place where he will be slandered.

summary:
summary line 5: Four years later, when the Qiang rebelled again, Pang Can advised abandoning the Western Regions and moving border counties to Zhuling. Though Deng Zhao agreed, many opposed, so the plan stopped. As prefect of Hanyang, Pang Can understood the cryptic advice of recluse Ren Tang to be upright, attack powerful clans, and pity orphans. He governed by restraining the strong and helping the weak. Promoted to Qiang Protector captain, many Qiang surrendered. When ordered to lead troops against the Xianling Qiang, he was defeated and jailed for falsely claiming illness. Ma Rong petitioned for his release, citing historical precedents. Later pardoned, Pang Can became governor of Liaodong, then general of Liao Dynasty, and finally Da Honglu. Recommended by Yu Xu, he became Taiwei under Emperor Shun. Despite his reputation for loyalty, he was slandered and imprisoned. After being cleared, he was restored but later accused of killing his ex-wife's son. He was dismissed but later reinstated as Taiwei in the fourth year of Yangjia, dying at home in the first year of Yonghe.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
家世边将，便习弓马，雄于北州。
龟少有志气。
永建中，举孝廉，五迁五原太守。
永和五年，拜使匈奴中郎将。
时南匈奴左部反乱，龟以单于不能制下，外顺内畔，促令自杀，坐征下狱免。
后再迁，拜京兆尹。
时三辅强豪之族，多侵枉小民。
龟到，厉威严，悉平理其怨屈者，郡内大悦。
会羌胡寇边，杀长吏，驱略百姓，桓帝以龟世谙边俗，拜为度辽将军。
龟临行，上疏曰：臣龟蒙恩累世，驰聘边垂，虽展鹰犬之用，顿毙胡虏之庭，魂骸不返，荐享狐狸，犹无以塞厚责，答万分也。
translation: 
His family background was that of a border general. He learned to bow and horse since he was a child, and he dominated Beizhou.
Chen Gui was ambitious at a young age.
During the Yongjian period, he was promoted to Xiaolian, promoted five times, and became the prefect of Wuyuan.
In the fifth year of Yonghe's reign, he was appointed as Zhonglang General who was sent as envoy to the Xiongnu.
At that time, the left wing of the Southern Xiongnu was in rebellion. Gui believed that the Chanyu could not subdue his subordinates and was submissive on the outside but rebellious on the inside, prompting him to commit suicide. He was ordered to be jailed for committing a crime and was exempted from execution.
After being promoted twice, he was worshiped as Jing Zhaoyin.
At this time, the powerful clans of the three auxiliaries invaded the people many times.
When Chen Gui took office, he exercised great authority and tried all those who had suffered grievances. The people in the county were very happy.
When the Qiang and Hu invaded the border, they killed the officials and drove away and plundered the people. Emperor Huan believed that Chen Gui had been familiar with border customs for generations and worshiped him as the general who conquered Liao.
When Chen Gui was leaving, he said to the emperor: "I have received the emperor's favor and galloped on the border. Although I displayed the role of hawks and dogs, I died in the court of the barbarians. My soul did not return to the Han Dynasty. I used foxes as sacrifices, but I could not repay the emperor even one tenth of his kindness."

summary:
summary line 6: Chen Gui, courtesy name Shuzhen, was from a border general family in Shangdang. He learned archery and horsemanship as a child, dominating Beizhou. During the Yongjian period, he became Xiaolian and later prefect of Wuyuan. In the fifth year of Yonghe, he became Zhonglang General envoy to the Xiongnu. When the Southern Xiongnu's left wing rebelled, Chen Gui blamed the Chanyu and was jailed but spared execution. As Jing Zhaoyin, he punished powerful clans and brought justice. When Qiang and Hu invaded, Emperor Huan appointed him general who conquered Liao. Chen Gui advised the emperor on border policies, recommending rewards for good officials and punishment for corrupt ones. The emperor selected new governors and reduced taxes. Chen Gui's administration so frightened Xianbei that they avoided the borders, saving millions annually. General Liang Ji, who had a long-standing quarrel with Chen Gui, accused him of destroying national prestige. Chen Gui was recalled and later became a minister. As Liang Ji's tyranny grew, Chen Gui accused him and requested his death. When the emperor ignored him, Chen Gui starved himself for seven days and died. People in the Western Regions, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou mourned him.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
七世祖仁，从同郡戴德学，著《礼记章句》四十九篇，号曰 桥君学 。
成帝时为大鸿胪。
祖父基，广陵太守。
父肃，东莱太守。
玄少为县功曹。
时豫州刺史周景行部到梁国，玄谒景，因伏地言陈相羊昌罪恶，乞为部陈从事，穷案其奸。
景壮玄意，署而遣之。
玄到，悉收昌宾客，具考臧罪。
昌素为大将军梁冀所厚，冀为驰檄救之。
景承旨召玄，玄还檄不发，案之益急。
昌坐槛车征，玄由是著名。
举孝廉，补洛阳左尉。
时梁不疑为河南尹，玄以公事当诣府受对，耻为所辱，弃官还乡里。
后四迁为齐相，坐事为城旦。
刑竟，征，再迁上谷太守，又为汉阳太守。
时上令皇甫祯有臧罪，玄收考髡笞，死于冀市，一境皆震。
郡人上姜岐，守道隐居，名闻西州。
玄召以为吏，称疾不就。
玄怒，敕督邮尹益逼致之，曰： 岐若不至，趣嫁其母。
益固争不能得，遽晓譬岐。
岐坚卧不起。
郡内士大夫亦竞往谏，玄乃止。
时颇以为讥。
translation: 
Qiao Ren, the seventh generation ancestor, learned from Dade in the same county and wrote forty-nine chapters of "Book of Rites", known as "Qiao Jun Xue".
When he became emperor, he became Dahonglu.
Grandfather Qiao Ji served as the prefect of Guangling.
My father was serious and had served as the governor of Donglai.
Qiao Xuan was a county meritorious official when he was young.
At that time, Zhou Jingxing, the governor of Yuzhou, went to Liang State. Qiao Xuan paid a visit to Zhou Jing, so he lay down on the ground and told Chen Xiang Yangchang's crimes, and asked to be the leader of Chen to conduct an in-depth investigation of his crimes.
Zhou Jing thought Qiao Xuan was very brave, so he wrote his name and dispatched him.
After Qiao Xuan arrived, he arrested all Yangchang's guests and interrogated Zang Zui in detail.
Yang Chang had always had a close friendship with General Liang Ji, and Liang Ji rushed to the rescue for him.
Zhou Jing summoned Xuan according to the order, but Qiao Xuan still didn't say anything, so the investigation became more urgent.
Yangchang rode in a carriage to answer the call, and Qiaoxuan became famous from then on.
Qiao Xuan was promoted to Xiaolian and supplemented Luoyang Zuowei.
At this time, Liang Buyi became the Yin of Henan Province, and Qiao Xuan went to the government for official duties. He did not want to suffer the humiliation, so he abandoned his official position and returned to his hometown.
Later, he was promoted to Qi Xiang four times, and was punished as Cheng Dan for committing crimes.
After his sentence was completed, he was conscripted, promoted to the governor of Shanggu, and then the governor of Hanyang.
At this time, Shang Guizhen ordered Huangfuzhen to be guilty of Zang. Qiao Xuan arrested him and punished him with whippings and other punishments. He died in the city of Ji County, which shocked the whole country.
Jiang Qi, a native of the county, lived in seclusion and guarded the road, and his reputation spread throughout Xizhou.
Qiao Xuan called him an official, but he refused to come out because he was ill.
Qiao Xuan was angry and ordered the governor Yin Yi to force him, saying: If Jiang Qi doesn't come, he will marry his mother.
Yin Yi insisted on trying not to get it, and quickly enlightened Jiang Qi.
Qi Jian couldn't get up.
The scholar-bureaucrats in the county also tried to dissuade him, and Qiao Xuan stopped his action.
People were quite ridiculed at that time.

summary:
summary line 7: Qiao Xuan was from Suiyang, Liang State. His ancestor Qiao Ren wrote forty-nine chapters of the "Book of Rites." Qiao Xuan began as a county meritorious official. When Governor Zhou Jing visited Liang State, Qiao Xuan accused Chen Xiang Yangchang of crimes and investigated thoroughly despite Yangchang's friendship with General Liang Ji. Qiao Xuan became famous. After being promoted to Xiaolian and Luoyang Zuowei, he resigned when Liang Buyi became Henan Yin. He later became governor of Shanggu and Hanyang, punishing corrupt officials severely. When recluse Jiang Qi refused to serve, Qiao Xuan threatened to marry his mother, but relented after persuasion. During Emperor Huan's reign, when Xianbei, Southern Xiongnu, and Gaogouli rebelled, Qiao Xuan became general who conquered Liao. He rested his troops and defeated the rebels, bringing border peace for three years.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
玄少子十岁，独游门次，卒有三人持杖劫执之，入舍登楼，就玄求货，玄不与。
有顷，司隶校尉阳球率河南尹、洛阳令围守玄家。
球等恐并杀其子，未欲迫之。
玄目呼曰： 奸人无状，玄岂以一子之命而纵国贼乎！
促令兵进。
于是攻之，玄子亦死。
玄乃诣阙谢罪，乞下天下： 凡有劫质，皆并杀之，不得赎以财宝，开张奸路。
诏书下其章。初自安帝以后，法禁稍，京师劫质，不避豪贵，自是遂绝。
玄以光和六年卒，时年七十五。
玄性刚急无大体，然谦俭下士，子弟亲宗无在大官者。
及卒，家无居业，丧无所殡，当时称之。
初，曹操微时，人莫知者。尝往候玄，玄见而异焉。谓曰： 今天下将乱，安生民者其在君乎！
操常感其知己。
及后经过玄墓，辄凄怆致祭。
自为其文曰： 故太尉桥公，懿德高轨，泛爱博容。
国念明训，士思令谟。
幽灵潜翳，哉缅矣！
操以幼年，逮升堂室，特以顽质，见纳君子。
增荣益观，皆由奖助，犹仲尼称不如颜渊，李生厚叹贾复。
translation: 
Qiao Xuan's youngest son was ten years old and was traveling alone. Three men with sticks kidnapped him, took him to a house and climbed a building, and asked Qiao Xuan for his property, but Qiao Xuan refused to give it.
Soon, Sili Colonel Chen Qiu led Henan Yin and Luoyang orders to surround and guard Qiaoxuan's house.
Qiu and others were afraid of killing his son as well and did not want to force him.
Qiao Xuan stared and shouted: "Traitors have no law, how can I let go of a national traitor just because of the life of a son?"
Urging the troops to advance.
So they attacked and Qiao Xuan's son also died.
Qiao Xuan then went to the court to apologize and asked for an order to the world: anyone who robbed hostages should be killed together, and no treasures could be used to atone for sins or open up a treacherous path.
This memorial was written in the imperial edict. At first, after Emperor An, the laws and regulations were slightly relaxed, and the capital officials robbed hostages and did not avoid the homes of rich and noble people. From then on, there was no such thing.
Qiao Xuan died in the sixth year of Guanghe at the age of seventy-five.
Qiao Xuan's personality was impetuous and careless, but he was humble, thrifty, courteous and virtuous. None of his descendants became high-ranking officials.
When he died, his family had little property and there was no funeral ceremony. At that time, people praised him.
At first, when Cao Cao was humble, no one knew that he had visited Qiao Xuan to greet him. Qiao Xuan felt a little strange when he saw him, and said to him: Now the world is about to be in chaos, and you must be the one who stabilizes the people!
Cao Cao was often grateful that he was a confidant.
Later, I passed Qiao Xuan's tomb and paid homage sadly.
I wrote a memorial poem myself and said: Therefore, Taiwei Qiaogong was a man of noble virtue and great love.
The country thinks clearly about the instructions, and the scholars think about the instructions.
The ghost is still there, but the beauty is far away.
When Cao Cao was young, he came to the emperor's room and was appreciated by the emperor because of his stubbornness.
Increased glory is all rewarded, which is equivalent to Confucius saying that he is not as good as Yan Yuan, and Li Shenghou sighed at Jia Fu.

summary:
summary line 8: Under Emperor Ling, he became Henan magistrate, then Sikong and Situ. Despite quarreling with Chen Qiu, he recommended him as court captain. Qiao Xuan later became minister and accused official Gai Sheng of corruption, but the emperor protected Gai Sheng. Qiao Xuan resigned due to illness. When kidnappers took his ten-year-old son and demanded property, Qiao Xuan refused and ordered troops to attack, resulting in his son's death. He then requested an edict that hostage-takers be killed without ransom. This law ended hostage-taking among nobles. Qiao Xuan died at seventy-five. He was humble and thrifty, leaving little property. When Cao Cao was young and unknown, Qiao Xuan recognized his potential, saying Cao would stabilize the world. Cao Cao later visited Qiao Xuan's tomb and wrote a memorial poem honoring him.

