Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在颛顼，命南正重司天，火正黎司地。
唐、虞之际，绍重、黎之后，使复典之，至于夏、商，故重、黎氏世序天地。
其在周，程伯林甫其后也。
当宣王时，官失其守而为司马氏。
司马氏世典周史。
惠、襄之间，司马氏适晋。
晋中军随会奔魏，而司马氏入少梁。
自司马氏去周适晋，分散，或在卫，或在赵，或在秦。
其在卫者，相中山。
在赵者，以传剑论显，蒯聩其后也。
在秦者错，与张仪争论，于是惠王使错将兵伐蜀，遂拔，因而守之。
错孙蕲，事武安君白起。
而少梁更名夏阳。
蕲与武安君坑赵长平军，还而与之俱赐死杜邮，葬于华池。
蕲孙昌，为秦王铁官。
当始皇之时，蒯聩玄孙卬为武信君将而徇朝歌。
诸侯之相王，王卬于殷。
汉之伐楚，卬归汉，以其地为河内郡。
昌生毋怿，毋怿为汉市长。
毋怿生喜，喜为五大夫，卒，皆葬高门。
喜生谈，谈为太史公。
太史公学天官于唐都，受《易》于杨何，习道论于黄子。
太史公仕于建元、元封之间，愍学者不达其意而师悖，乃论六家之要指曰：
《易大传》： 天下一致而百虑，同归而殊涂。
夫阴阳、儒、墨、名、法、道德，此务为治者也。直所从言之异路，有省不省耳。
尝窃观阴阳之术，大详而众忌讳，使人拘而多畏，然其叙四时之大顺，不可失也。
translation: 
In the past, during Zhuanxu's reign, he appointed Nan Zhengzhong to be in charge of astronomy and Huo Zhengli to be in charge of geography.
During the reigns of Yao, Yu and Shun in the Tang Dynasty, the descendants of Zhong and Li continued to be in charge of astronomy and geography. Until the Xia and Shang dynasties, the generations of people surnamed Li were in charge of astronomy and geography.
During the Western Zhou Dynasty, Xiu Fu, who was named Cheng Bo, was their descendant.
By the time of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, they lost their official positions in charge of astronomy and geography and became the Sima clan.
The Sima family has been in charge of the history of the Zhou Dynasty for generations.
On the occasion of King Zhou Hui and King Zhou Xiang, the Sima family arrived in Jin.
The marshal of the Jin army fled to Wei, and the Sima family also came to Shaoliang.
Since the Sima family left Zhou and came to Jin, they were scattered, some in Wei, some in Zhao, and some in Qin.
In Weiguo, he later became the prime minister of Zhongshan.
在赵国的，由于传播有关剑术的理论而声名显赫，蒯聩就是他们的后代。
In Sima Cuo of Qin State, he once argued with Zhang Yi about conquering Shu. King Qin Hui accepted his suggestion and asked him to lead his troops to conquer Shu.
He was victorious and appointed governor of Shu. Sima Cuo's grandson Sima Qi was a subordinate of Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an.
At this time, Shaoliang changed his name to Xia Yang.
Sima Qiyu and Wu'an Jun Bai Qi killed the army of Tongguo in Changping pit. After returning to Qin, both he and Bai Qi were ordered to die in Duyou by the King of Qin and were buried in Huachi.
Sima Qi's grandson was named Sima Chang, and he served as an iron official in the Qin State.
During the reign of Qin Shihuang, Kuai Kuai's great-great-grandson Sima Yan was a general of Wu Xinjun and led troops to capture Chaoge.
When Xiang Yu granted the title of eighteen princes, he granted Sima Yan the title of King of Yin.
When Liu Bang, the king of Han, attacked Xiang Yu, the king of Chu, Sima Xuan surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the king of Han changed Sima Xuan's ruling area to Hanoi County.
Sima Lu gave birth to Sima Wutang, who served as the mayor of Chang'an in the Han Dynasty.
Sima Wuyun gave birth to Sima happy. Sima happy was once the fifth official. After their death, they were all buried in Gaomen.
Sima Xi gave birth to Sima Tan, who once served as Grand Historian.
Tai Shigong studied astronomy from the Tang Dynasty, "Book of Changes" from Yang Zhe, and Taoism from Huang Zi.
Tai Shigong served as an official during the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty from Jianyuan to Yuanfeng. He was worried that those who studied the various schools of thought in the pre-Qin Dynasty would fail to understand the original meaning of each school and blindly believe in some absurd statements. He discussed the main spiritual principles of the six schools of thought:
"Yi Da Zhuan" says: People all over the world have the same direction, but their ideas are diverse, their goals are the same, but their paths are different.
Yin-Yang, Confucianism, Mohism, Mingjia, Legalism, Moralism, these schools of thought all take governing the country as their top priority, but their theories are different, with or without provinces.
I think that the Yin-Yang theory advocates auspiciousness and has many taboos, which often restricts people and creates a lot of fear. However, the order of the four seasons it arranges cannot be abandoned.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
儒者博而寡要，劳而少功，是以其事难尽从，然其叙君臣、父子之礼，列夫妇、长幼之别，不可易也。
墨者俭而难遵，是以其事不可偏循；然其强本节用，不可废也。
法家严而少恩，然其正君臣上下之分，不可改也。
名家使人俭而善失真，然其正名实，不可不察也。
道家使人精神专一，动合无形，澹足万物。
其为术也，因阴阳之大顺，采儒、墨之善，撮名、法之要，与时迁徙，应物变化，立俗施事，无所不宜，指约而易操，事少而功多。
儒者则不然，以为人主天下之仪表也，君唱臣和，主先臣随。
如此，则主劳而臣佚。
至于大道之要，去健羡，黜聪明，释此而任术。
夫神大用则竭，形大劳则敝；神形蚤衰，欲与天地长久，非所闻也。
夫阴阳，四时、八位、十二度、二十四节各有孝令，曰 顺之者昌，逆之者亡 ，未必然也，故曰 使人拘而多畏 。
夫春生、夏长、秋收、冬藏，此天道之大经也，弗顺，则无以为天下纪纲。
故曰 四时之大顺，不可失也 。
夫儒者，以六艺为法，六艺经传以千万数，累世不能通其学，当年不能究其礼。
故曰 博而寡要，劳而少功 。
若夫列君臣、父子之礼，序夫妇、长幼之别，虽百家弗能易也。
墨者亦上尧、舜，言其德行，曰 堂高三尺，土阶三等，茅茨不剪，采椽不斫；饭土簋，歠土刑，粝梁之食，藜藿之羹；夏日葛衣，冬日鹿裘。
其送死，桐棺三寸，举音不尽其哀。
教丧礼，必以此为万民率。
故天下法若此，则尊卑无别也。
夫世异时移，事业不必同，故曰 俭而难遵 也。
要曰 强本节用 ，则人给家足之道也。
此墨子之所长，虽百家不能废也。
法家不别亲疏，不殊贵贱，一断于法，则亲亲尊尊之恩绝矣，可以行一时之计，而不可长用也，故曰 严而少恩 。
若尊主卑臣，明分职不得相逾越，虽百家不能改也。名家苛察缴绕，使人不得反其意，剸决于名，时失人情，故曰 使人俭而善失真 。
若夫控名责实，参伍不失，此不可不察也。
道家无为，又曰无不为，其实易行，其辞难知。
其术以虚无为本，以因循为用。
无成势，无常形，故能究万物之情。
translation: 
Confucianism is broad but lacks essentials, and it takes a lot of effort but has little effect. Therefore, it is difficult to fully implement what it advocates. However, the etiquette between monarch, minister, father and son, and the distinction between husband and wife, elder and younger, which it stipulates cannot be changed.
Mohism advocates frugality but it is difficult to follow it, so all the things Mohism advocates cannot be adopted. However, the Mohist ideas on strengthening the development of the industry and practicing economy cannot be discarded.
Legalism's ideas are harsh and harsh and lack kindness. However, the fact that they uphold the status of emperor and ministers cannot be changed.
Famous scholars are too rigid in their formality and easily lose their correct understanding of things. However, the dialectical relationship between name and reality cannot but be seriously considered.
Taoism unites people's spirit and actions in line with the invisible Tao, making all things abundant and perfect.
Their doctrine follows the order of Yin and Yang in the four seasons, absorbs the strengths of Confucianism and Mohism, and takes the essence of Ming and Dharma. It transfers with time and changes with things. In this way, there is nothing inappropriate in establishing routines and handling affairs. The purpose is concise and easy to grasp. Although they do not do many things, they are very effective.
This is not the case with Confucians. They believe that the monarch is the model for the world. In everything, the monarch initiates and his subordinates respond. The monarch takes the lead and his subordinates follow.
Like this, the monarch is tired and his subjects are at ease.
As for the essence of the great Taoist theory, it not only removes strongness and greed, but also abolishes intelligence and wisdom. Confucianism abandoned these and allowed Confucianism to govern.
If the spirit is overused, it will be exhausted, and if the body is overworked, it will be damaged; if the spirit and body are prematurely exhausted, it has never been heard of to be with the heaven and the earth for a long time.
The Yin and Yang theory has its own rules and taboos for the four seasons of the year, the Bagua directions, the twelve stars, and the twenty-four solar terms. It is said that if you follow these, you will prosper, and if you violate them, you will perish. In fact, this is not necessarily the case, so it makes people restricted and creates a lot of fear.
As for spring birth, summer growth, autumn harvest, and winter storage, these are the laws of nature. If you don't follow them, there will be no laws for the world.
Therefore, the running sequence of the four seasons of the year stipulated by it cannot be discarded.
Confucianism uses the Six Arts as its criterion. There are tens of millions of scriptures on the Six Arts. People cannot understand its doctrines for several generations, and they cannot fully understand its etiquette in a lifetime.
Therefore, Confucianism is broad but lacks essentials, and it takes a lot of effort but has little effect.
As for the Confucian etiquette between monarch, minister, father and son, and the distinction between husband and wife, elder and younger, these cannot be changed by any school of thought.
The Mohists also admired Yao and Shun, praising the virtues of Yao and Shun and saying: They lived in three-foot-high halls with three-story earthen steps. Their thatched roofs were not trimmed, and their oak rafters were not decorated. They used pottery gui for rice and earthen basins for soup. They ate brown rice and drank bean leaf soup. They wore kudzu clothes in summer and deer skins in winter.
They bury their dead in coffins made of three-inch thin paulownia boards, and their cries are not sad.
Educating people to follow funeral rituals must be based on this standard.
If the world were to be like this, then there would be no distinction between high and low.
The world is different, times have changed, and careers do not have to be the same, so it is difficult for people to follow the frugality advocated by Mohism.
In short, Mohism advocates emphasizing local use, which is a way to guide the family to become rich and the people to be prosperous.
It can be used as a temporary measure, but not for long-term use.
Therefore, the preacher is harsh and harsh but lacks kindness. As for the Legalist idea of ​​making the king noble and his ministers humble, and clarifying the boundaries of duties that cannot be crossed, this cannot be changed by any school of thought.
Famous names are so trivial and confusing that people cannot deduce its true meaning. They focus on the reasoning of noun concepts and lose the common sense that is easy to grasp. Therefore, it is said that famous scholars make people constrained and easily lose their correct understanding of things.
As for the fact that it follows the name and fulfills its duties and comprehensively examines the essence of things, it must be seriously considered.
Taoism advocates inaction and does everything. Its actual proposition is easy to implement, but its words are difficult to understand.
Its doctrine takes nothingness as its theoretical basis and conformity to nature as its practical principle.
There is neither an established trend nor a fixed form, so we can ascertain the true nature of all things.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
不为物先后，故能为万物主。
有法无法，因时为业；有度无度，因物兴舍。
故曰 圣人不巧，时变是守 。
虚者，道之常也；因者，君之纲也。
群臣并至，使各自明也。
其实中其声者谓之端，实不中其声者谓之款。
款言不听，奸乃不生，贤不肖自分，白黑乃形。
在所欲用耳，何事不成！
乃合大道，混混冥冥。光耀天下，复反无名。
凡人所生者神也，所托者形也。
神大用则竭，形大劳则敝，形神离则死。
死者不可复生，离者不可复合，故圣人重之。
由此观之，神者生之本，形者生之俱。
不先定其神形，而曰 我有以治天下 ，何由哉？
太史公既掌天官，不治民。
有子曰迁。
迁生龙门，耕牧河山之阳。
年十岁则诵古文。
二十而南游江、淮，上会稽，探禹穴，窥九疑，浮沅、湘。
北涉汶、泗，讲业齐鲁之都，观夫子遗风，乡射邹峄；厄困蕃、薛、彭城，过梁、楚以归。
于是迁仕为郎中，奉使西征巴、蜀以南，略邛、莋、昆明，还报命。
是岁，天子始建汉家之封，而太史公留滞周南，不得与从事，发愤且卒。
而子迁适反，见父于河、洛之间。
太史公执迁手而泣曰： 予先，周室之太史也。
自上世尝显功名虞、夏，典天官事。
后世中衰，绝于予乎？
汝复为太史，则续吾祖矣。
今天子接千岁之统，封泰山，而予不得从行，是命也夫！
命也夫！予死，尔必为太史；为太史，毋忘吾所欲论著矣。
translation: 
He neither walks in front of things nor lags behind things, so he can become the master of all things.
The existence of laws is determined according to the current situation; the rise and fall of systems is determined according to changes in things.
Therefore, it is said that the sage does not act cunningly, but adapts to the current situation.
Nothingness is the core of Taoism, and conformity is the program of monarchy.
All the ministers went to court together, and the monarch asked them to demonstrate their talents.
If the actual situation is consistent with the reputation, it is called Duan; if the actual situation is not consistent with the reputation, it is called emptiness.
If the monarch does not listen to empty words, evil will not occur, the virtuous and the unworthy will naturally be distinguished, and black and white will naturally be distinguished.
The success lies in how the monarch uses them. What can't be accomplished by doing this!
This is in line with the Dao. It looks chaotic, but the light shines on the world, and returns to the realm of namelessness.
What people rely on for survival is the spirit, and what they rely on is the body.
If the spirit is overused, it will be exhausted. If the body is overworked, it will be damaged. If the body and spirit are separated, the person will die.
The dead cannot be reborn, and the body and spirit will not be reunited if they are separated, so the saints attach great importance to this issue.
From this point of view, the spirit is the foundation of human survival, and the body is the tool for human survival.
If you don't first stabilize your own spirit and body, then you say that I have a way to govern the world. What can I rely on?
The official position of Taishi is in charge of astronomical work and does not care about civil affairs.
He had a son named Sima Qian.
Sima Qian was born in Longmen and lived a life of farming and herding at the southern foot of Longmen Mountain.
At the age of ten, he was able to read ancient Chinese works.
At the age of 20, he traveled south to the Yangtze River and Huaihe River. He climbed Mount Kuaiji, visited Yu's Cave, went to Mount Jiuyi, inspected Shun's deeds, and went boating on the Yuan and Xiang Rivers.
He crossed the Wenshui River and the Sichuan River in the north, studied in the capitals of Qi and Lu, observed the teachings of Confucius, and learned the etiquette of local archery in Zoufeng. When he traveled to Fan, Xue, Pengcheng and other places, he encountered danger for a time, and returned to Chang'an after passing through the lands of Liang and Chu.
So Sima Qian became a doctor and sent an envoy to the west to conquer the area south of Bashu under the order of the imperial court. After briefly setting up Qiong, Jia and Kunming, he returned to Chang'an to report his orders to the imperial court.
In this year, the emperor began to hold the Han Dynasty's Zen ceremony, but Tai Shigong was left in Zhounan and could not participate in the ceremony. Therefore, he became ill and was about to die due to anger.
His son Sima Qian happened to return from his mission at this time and met his father in Luoyang.
Taishi Gong held Sima Qian's hand and said with tears: Our ancestor was the Taishi of the Zhou Dynasty.
As early as the ancient times of Yu, Shun and Xia Yu, he had achieved great fame and was in charge of astronomical work.
Later, it declined. Do you think it will be ruined by me?
If you become Taishi, you can continue the work of our ancestors.
Now the emperor has inherited the great cause of the thousand-year unification of the Han Dynasty and went to Mount Tai to enshrine the Zen, but I cannot do it. This is destined!
After I die, you will definitely become Taishi; once you become Taishi, you must not forget the treatise I want to write.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
且夫孝，始于事亲，中于事君，终于立身；扬名于后世，以显父母，此孝之大也。
夫天下称周公，言其能论歌文、武之德，宣周、召之风，达大王、王季思虑，爰及公刘，以尊后稷也。
幽、厉之后，王道缺，礼乐衰，孔子修旧起废，论《诗》、《书》，作《春秋》，则学者至今则之。
自获麟以来四百有余岁，而诸侯相兼，史记放绝。
今汉兴，海内一统，明主贤君，忠臣义士，予为太史而不论载，废天下之文，予甚惧焉，尔其念哉！
迁俯首流涕曰： 小子不敏，请悉论先人所次旧闻，不敢阙。
卒三岁，而迁为太史令，史记石室金鐀之书。五年而当太初元年，十一月甲子朔旦冬至，天历始改，建于明堂，诸神受记。
太史公曰： 先人有言  自周公卒五百岁而有孔子，孔子至于今五百岁，有能绍而明世，正《易传》，继《春秋》，本《诗》、《书》、《礼》、《乐》之际。
意在斯乎！
意在斯乎！
小子何敢攘焉！
上大夫壶遂曰： 昔孔子为何作《春秋》哉？
太史公曰： 余闻之董生： 周道衰废，孔子为司寇，诸侯害之，大夫壅之。
孔子知言之不用，道之不行也，是非二百四十二年之中，以为天下仪表，贬天子，退诸侯，讨大夫，以达王事而已矣。 子曰： 我欲载之空言，不如见之于行事之深切著明也。
《春秋》上明三王之道，下辨人事之经纪，别嫌疑，明是非，定犹与，善善恶恶，贤贤贱不肖，存亡国，继绝世，补弊起废，王道之大者也。
《易》，著天地、阴阳、四时、五行，故长于变；《礼》，纲纪人伦，故长于行；《书》，记先王之事，故长于政；《诗》，记山川、溪谷、禽兽、草木、牝牡、雌雄，故长于风；《乐》，乐所以立，故长于和；《春秋》，辩是非，故长于治人。
是故《礼》以节人，《乐》以发和，《书》以道事，《诗》以达意，《易》以道化，《春秋》以道义。
translation: 
Moreover, filial piety starts from serving parents, and then passes through serving the monarch, and finally can establish a foothold in society, become famous in future generations, and bring glory to parents. This is the most important thing in filial piety.
The world praises Duke Zhou because he can praise the merits of King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, promote the style of Zhou and Zhao, make people understand the thoughts of King Tai and Wang Ji of Zhou, and the achievements of Gong Liu, so that the ancestor Hou Ji can be respected.
After King You and King Li of Zhou Dynasty, the royal way declined and the rituals and music were damaged. Confucius studied and sorted out the old literature and classics to revitalize the abandoned royal way and rituals and music. He compiled "Poems" and "Books" and wrote "Spring and Autumn". To this day, scholars still use this as a rule.
It has been more than four hundred years since Duke Ai of Lu acquired Lin. During this period, due to mergers and melees between princes, historical books were scattered and records were interrupted.
Now that the Han Dynasty has risen and the country has been unified, the deeds of wise monarchs and loyal ministers, as Taishi, I will not comment on and record, interrupting the country's historical documents. I feel very uneasy about this. You must keep it in mind!
Sima Qian lowered his head and said with tears: Although Yu is not smart, he will definitely complete his father's plan of compiling history without making any omissions.
Three years after the death of Taishi Gong, Sima Qian made the Taishi Order. He read and excerpted the books and files collected in the stone cabinet. Five years later, in the first year of Taichu, at the early morning of the winter solstice on the first day of the first lunar month, the Taichu calendar began to be used. The new calendar was announced in the Mingtang, and the gods were remembered.
Tai Shigong said: My late father once said: Confucius was born five hundred years after the death of Duke Zhou, and another five hundred years have passed since Confucius. It is time to inherit and carry forward Confucius's career, revise "Yi Zhuan", continue "Spring and Autumn", and measure everything according to "Poetry", "Book", "Ritual" and "Music".
That’s what it means!
That’s what it means!
How dare I refuse!
The doctor Hu then asked: Why did Confucius write the Spring and Autumn Annals in the first place?
Tai Shigong replied: I heard Mr. Dong say: The kingship of the Zhou Dynasty declined. Confucius became the military commander of the Lu State and wanted to revitalize the kingship, but the princes framed him and the officials obstructed him.
Confucius knew that his ideas would not be adopted at that time and that the royal way could not be implemented, so he incorporated his own praise and blame into the 242 years of history recorded in the "Spring and Autumn Annals" as a rule for the world. He denounced the princes who violated etiquette and denounced the officials who violated the law, just to implement the king's way. Confucius said: I think that instead of educating others with empty preaching, it is better to record specific historical events and see the truth from the facts, which will be more profound and obvious.
"Spring and Autumn" is a book that can explain the ways of the three kings, distinguish the ethical principles of human affairs, identify suspicions and distinguish right from wrong, decide on difficult and hesitant matters, praise the good, denounce the ugly, respect the worthy and despise the unworthy, preserve the historical relics of the destroyed country, continue the severed lineage, make up for the incomplete, revitalize the decayed, these are the key points of the king's way.
"Yi" specializes in talking about heaven and earth, yin and yang, four seasons, and five elements, so it is good at change; "Li" regulates human relations, so it is good at doing things; "Book" records the deeds of the previous kings, so it is good at political affairs; "Poetry" It records mountains, rivers, valleys, animals, plants, males and females, so it is good at customs and customs; "Yue" discusses music classics, so it is good at harmony; "Spring and Autumn" distinguishes right from wrong, so it is good at governing people.
It can be seen that "Li" is used to control human desires, "Yue" is used to promote harmony, "Book" is used to guide political affairs, "Poetry" is used to express thoughts and feelings, "Yi" is used to clarify the changes in things, and "Spring and Autumn" is used to guide people to observe morality.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
拨乱世反之正，莫近于《春秋》。
《春秋》文成数万，其指数千。万物之散聚皆在《春秋》。
《春秋》之中，弑君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走不得保社稷者不可胜数。
察其所以，皆失其本已。
故《易》曰 差以豪氂，谬以千里 。故 臣弑君，子弑父，非一朝一夕之故，其渐久矣 。
有国者不可以不知《春秋》，前有谗而不见，后有贼而不知。
为人臣者不可以不知《春秋》，守经事而不知其宜，遭变事而不知其权。
为人君父者而不通于《春秋》之义者，必蒙首恶之名。
为人臣子不通于《春秋》之义者，必陷篡弑诛死之罪。
其实皆为善为之，而不知其义，被之空言不敢辞。
夫不通礼义之指，至于君不君，臣不臣，父不父，子不子。
夫君不君则犯，臣不臣则诛，父不父则无道，子不子则不孝：此四行者，天下之大过也。
以天下大过予之，受而不敢辞。
故《春秋》者，礼义之大宗也。
夫礼禁未然之前，法施已然之后；法之所为用者易见，而礼之所为禁者难知。
壶遂曰： 孔子之时，上无明君，下不得任用，故作《春秋》，垂空文以断礼义，当一王之法。
今夫子上遇明天子，下得守职，万事既具，咸各序其宜，夫子所论，欲以何明？
太史公曰： 唯唯，否否，不然。
余闻之先人曰： 伏羲至纯厚，作《易》八卦。
尧、舜之盛，《尚书》载之，礼乐作焉。
汤、武之降，诗人歌之。
《春秋》采善贬恶，推三代之德，褒周室，非独刺讥而已也。
translation: 
To manage the troubled times and put them on the right track, there is no more suitable book than "Spring and Autumn".
"Spring and Autumn" has tens of thousands of words and thousands of purposes. The discrete gathering of all things is concentrated in the "Spring and Autumn".
In the "Spring and Autumn Annals", there are recorded thirty-six incidents of killing kings and fifty-two incidents of country subjugation. It is impossible to count the number of princes who fled and failed to protect their countries.
Looking at the reason why this is the case, it is all due to the loss of the foundation of etiquette and justice.
Therefore, the Book of Changes says that a slight error can make a difference of a thousand miles. Therefore, ministers regicide and sons murdering their fathers did not happen overnight, but developed gradually.
A ruler must be familiar with the Spring and Autumn Annals, otherwise he will not be able to see the slanderers in front of him, and he will not be aware of the traitors behind him.
A minister must be familiar with "Spring and Autumn", otherwise he will not know how to handle daily affairs appropriately, and will not be able to adopt expedient measures to deal with sudden changes.
Those who are kings and fathers and do not understand the righteousness of the Spring and Autumn Annals will definitely be accused of being the chief culprits.
A person who is a minister and a son of a human being. Those who do not understand the righteousness of "Spring and Autumn" will definitely be charged with murder and be executed.
In fact, they all thought they were doing good deeds, but because they didn't know what their morality was, they didn't dare to shirk the accusations against them.
If you do not understand the purpose of etiquette and justice, you will end up in a situation where a monarch is not like a monarch, a wealthy man is not like a minister, a father is not like a father, and a son is not like a son.
If a monarch is not like a monarch, he will be violated by his ministers; if a minister is not like a minister, he will be killed; if a father is not like a father, there will be no human ethics; if a son is not like a son, he will be disobedient and unfilial. These four behaviors are the greatest sins in the world.
If the crime of the greatest sin in the world is placed on them, they can only accept it without daring to refuse.
Therefore, the book "Spring and Autumn" is the foundation of etiquette and justice.
The role of etiquette and justice is to prevent bad things from happening, and the role of law is to punish bad things after they happen. The role of law is obvious, but the preventive role of etiquette and justice is not easy to be understood.
Hu Sui said: In the time of Confucius, there was no sage monarch above, and the ministers below were not reused, so the Spring and Autumn Annals were written, leaving discussions to judge etiquette and justice as a unified king's law.
Now that you have met a wise ruler above, and have been appointed officials below, everything is ready, and everyone is in their proper place. What will your discussion illustrate?
Tai Shigong replied: Ah, no, no, that's not the case.
I heard my father say: Fuxi is the most pure and honest person. He wrote the "Yi" gossip.
The prosperity of Yao and Shun's morality was recorded in "Shangshu", and ritual and music flourished from this.
Shang Tang and Zhou Wu prospered and were praised by poets.
"Spring and Autumn" praises good and belittles evil, praises the virtues of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, and praises the Zhou royal family. It is not just a satire.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
汉兴已来，至明天子，获符瑞，封禅，改正朔，易服色，受命于穆清，泽流罔极，海外殊俗，重译款塞，请来献见者，不可胜道。
臣下百官，力诵圣德，犹不能宣尽其意。
且士贤能矣，而不用，有国者耻也；主上明圣，德不布闻，有司之过也。
且余掌其官，废明圣盛德不载，灭功臣、贤大夫之业不述，堕先人所言，罪莫大焉。
余所谓述故事，整齐其世传，非所谓作也，而君比之《春秋》，谬矣。
于是论次其文。
十年而遭李陵之祸，幽于累绁。
乃喟然而叹曰： 是余之罪夫！
身亏不用矣。
退而深惟曰： 夫《诗》、《书》隐约者，欲遂其志之思也。
卒述陶唐以来，至于麟止，自黄帝始。
《五帝本纪》第一，《夏本纪》第二，《殷本纪》第三，《周本纪》第四，《秦本纪》第五，《始皇本纪》第六，《项羽本纪》第七，《高祖本纪》第八，《吕后本纪》第九，《孝文本纪》第十，《孝景本纪》第十一，《今上本纪》第十二。
《三代世表》第一，《十二诸侯年表》第二，《六国年表》第三，《秦楚之际月表》第四，《汉诸侯年表》第五，《高祖功臣年表》第六，《惠景间功臣年表》第七，《建元以来侯者年表》第八，《王子侯者年表》第九，《汉兴以来将相名臣年表》第十。
《礼书》第一，《乐书》第二，《律书》第三，《历书》第四，《天官书》第五，《封禅书》第六，《河渠书》第七，《平准书》第八。
translation: 
From the establishment of the Han Dynasty to the present day, the Emperor of Heaven has received auspicious fortunes, held sealing ceremonies, reformed the calendar, changed the colors of clothing, and received orders from the sky. The emperor's favor has been endless. Countries in foreign lands overseas have also gone through translators and knocked on the door to enter, asking for gifts and audience. There are countless such things.
All the officials tried their best to praise the emperor's virtues, but they could not fully express their feelings.
Moreover, it is a shame for the king if the most capable people in the world are not reused; it is the fault of the officials in charge if the Lord is wise and his kindness cannot be spread throughout the world.
What's more, as a historian, if I ignore the emperor's saintly merits and fail to record them, bury the achievements of meritorious ministers and wise officials without discussing them, and betray my father's instructions, it will be a great sin.
What I write is just a record of historical stories, and a compilation and summary of historical materials passed down from generation to generation. It is not what people call a work. And you are wrong to compare it to "Spring and Autumn".
So he discussed and compiled his book in order.
In the tenth year of writing, he suffered the disaster of Li Ling and was imprisoned.
In prison, he sighed: This is my sin!
There is no use in being crippled.
After thinking about it carefully, he said: The reason why the meaning of "Poetry" and "Book" is implicit is that the author used it to better express his deep thoughts.
He finally began to record the history from the Yellow Emperor to the Emperor Wu Huolin. Its titles are:
The Benji of the Five Emperors is first, the Benji of Xia is the second, the Benji of Yin is the third, the Benji of Zhou is fourth, the Benji of Qin is fifth, the Benji of the First Emperor is sixth, the Benji of Xiang Yu is seventh, the Benji of Gaozu is eighth, the Benji of Empress Lu is ninth, the Xiaowen Chronicle is the tenth, the Xiaojing Benji is eleventh, and the Jinshang Benji is the twelfth.
The "Chronology of the Three Dynasties" is the first, the "Chronology of the Twelve Princes" is the second, the "Chronology of the Six Kingdoms" is the third, the "Monthly Table of the Qin and Chu" is the fourth, the "Chronology of the Princes of the Han" is fifth, the "Chronology of the Heroes of Gaozu" is sixth, the "Chronology of the Heroes of the Emperor Huijing" is seventh, the "Chronology of the Marquises since the Founding of the Yuan Dynasty" is the eighth, the "Chronology of the Princes and Marquises" is ninth, and the "Chronology of the Generals and Ministers since the rise of the Han Dynasty" is tenth.
The "Book of Rites" is first, the "Book of Music" is second, the "Book of Laws" is third, the "Almanac" is fourth, the "Book of Heavenly Officials" is fifth, the "Book of Fengpan" is sixth, the "Book of Rivers and Qus" is seventh, and the "Book of Pingzhun" is eighth.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
《吴太伯世家》第一，《齐太公世家》第二，《鲁周公世家》第三，《燕召公世家》第四，《管蔡世家》第五，《陈杞世家》第六，《卫康叔世家》第七，《宋微子世家》第八，《晋世家》第九，《楚世家》第十，《越世家》第十一，《郑世家》第十二，《赵世家》第十三，《魏世家》第十四，《韩世家》第十五，《田完世家》第十六，《孔子世家》第十七，《陈涉世家》第十八，《外戚世家》第十九，《楚元王世家》第二十，《荆燕王世家》第二十一，《齐悼惠王世家》第二十二，《萧相国世家》第二十三，《曹相国世家》第二十四，《留侯世家》第二十五，《陈丞相世家》第二十六，《绛侯世家》第二十七，《梁孝王世家》第二十八，《五宗世家》第二十九，《三王世家》第三十。
《伯夷列传》经一，《管晏列传》第二，《老子韩非列传》第三，《司与穰苴列传》第四，《孙子吴起列传》第五，《伍子胥列传》第六，《仲尼弟子列传》第七，《商君列传》第八，《苏秦列传》第九，《张仪列传》第十，《樗里甘茂列传》第十一，《穰侯列传》第十二，《白起王翦列传》第十三，《孟子荀卿列传》第十四，《平原虞卿列传》第十五，《孟尝君列传》第十六，《魏公子列传》第十七，《春申君列传》第十八，《范睢蔡泽列传》第十九，《乐毅列传》第二十，《廉颇蔺相如列传》第二十一，《田单列传》第二十二，《鲁仲连列传》第二十三，《屈原贾生列传》第二十四，《吕不韦列传》第二十五，《刺客列传》第二十六，《李斯列传》第二十七，《蒙恬列传》第二十八，《张耳陈馀列传》第二十九，《魏豹彭越列传》第三十，《黥布列传》第三十一，《淮阴侯韩信列传》第三十二，《韩王信卢绾列传》第三十三，《田儋列传》第三十四，《樊郦滕灌列传》第三十五，《张丞相仓列传》第三十六，《郦生陆贾列传》第三十七，《傅靳崩阝成侯列传》第三十八，《刘敬叔孙通列传》第三十九，《季布栾布列传》第四十，《爰盎朝错列传》第四十一，《张释之冯唐列传》第四十二，《万石张叔列传》第四十三，《田叔列传》第四十四，《扁鹊仓公列传》第四十五，《吴王濞列传》第四十六，《魏其武安列传》第四十七，《韩长孺列传》第四十八，《李将军列传》第四十九，《卫将军骠骑列传》第五十，《平津主父列传》第五十一，《匈奴列传》第五十二，《南越列传》第五十三，《闽越列传》第五十四，《朝鲜列传》第五十五，《西南夷列传》第五十六，《司马相如列传》第五十七，《淮南衡山列传》第五十八，《循吏列传》第五十九，《汲郑列传》第六十，《儒林列传》第六十一，《酷吏列传》第六十二，《大宛列传》第六十三，《游侠列传》第六十四，《佞幸列传》第六十五，《滑稽列传》第六十六，《日者列传》第六十七，《龟策列传》第六十八，《货殖列传》第六十九。
惟汉继五帝末流，接三代绝业。
周道既废，秦拨去古文，焚灭《诗》、《书》，故明堂、石室、金鐀、玉版图籍散乱。
汉兴，萧何次律令，韩信申军法，张苍为章程，叔孙通定礼仪，则文学彬彬稍进，《诗》、《书》往往间出。
自曹参荐盖公言黄、老，而贾谊、韩错明申、朝，公孙弘以儒显，百年之间，天下遗文古事靡不毕集。
太史公仍父子相继■其职，曰： 於戏！
translation: 
"Family of Wu Taibo" is first, "Family of Duke Taigong of Qi" is second, "Family of Duke Zhou of Lu" is third, "Family of Yan Zhaogong" is fourth, "Family of Guan Cai" is fifth, "Family of Chen Qi" is sixth, "Family of Wei Kangshu" is seventh, "Family of Song Weizi" is fourth Eighth, "Jin Family" ninth, "Chu Family" tenth, "Yue Family" eleventh, "Zheng Family" twelfth, "Zhao Family" thirteenth, "Wei Family" fourteenth, "Han Family" fifteenth, "Tian Wan Family" sixteenth, "Confucius" "Family of Chen She" No. 18, "Family of Foreign Relatives" No. 19, "Family of King Chu Yuan" No. 20, "Family of King Jing Yan" No. 21, "Family of King Qi Mourning Hui" No. 22, "Family of Xiao Xiangguo" No. 23, "Family of King Cao" The 24th "Xiangguo Family", the 25th "Liuhou Family", the 26th "Prime Minister Chen's Family", the 27th "Jianghou Family", the 28th "Liang Xiaowang Family", the 29th "Five Sects Family", and the 30th "Three Kings Family".
"The Biography of Boyi" is the first, "The Biography of Guan Yan" is the second, "The Biography of Laozi and Han Fei" is the third, "The Biography of Sima Zhuju" is the fourth, "The Biography of Sun Tzu Wu Qi" is the fifth, "The Biography of Wu Zixu" is the sixth, "The Biography of Zhongni's Disciples" is the seventh, "The Biography of Shang Jun" is the eighth, "The Biography of Su Qin" is the ninth, "The Biography of Zhang Yi" is the tenth, "Biography of Gan Mao in Chuili" 11th, "Biography of Zhou Hou" 12th, "Biography of Bai Qi Wang Jian" 13th, "Biography of Mencius and Xunqing" 14th, "Biography of Yuqing of Pingyuan" 15th, "Biography of Mengchangjun" 16th, "Biography of Wei Gongzi" 17th, "Biography of Chunshenjun" 18th, "Biography of Fan Sui and Cai Ze" 10th 9. "Biography of Le Yi" No. 20, "Biography of Lian Po Lin Xiangru" No. 21, "Biography of Tian Dan" No. 22, "Biography of Lu Zhonglian" No. 23, "Biography of Qu Yuan Maisheng" No. 24, "Biography of Lu Buwei" No. 25, "Biography of Assassin" No. 26, "Biography of Li Si" No. 27, "Biography of Meng Tian" "Biography" 28, "Biography of Zhang Er and Chen Yu" 29, "Biography of Wei Bao and Peng Yue" 30, "Biography of Qing Bu" 31, "Biography of Huaiyin Marquis Han Xin" 32, "Biography of Han Wang Xin Lu Wan" 33, "Biography of Tian Dan" 34, "Biography of Fan Li Teng Guan" 35, "Biography of Prime Minister Zhang Cang" "Biography" 36, "Biography of Li Sheng and Lu Mai" 37, "Biography of Fu Jin, Nocheng Hou" 38, "Biography of Liu Jingshu and Sun Tong" 39, "Biography of Ji Bu Le Bu" 40, "Biography of Yuan An Chao Cuo" 41, "Biography of Zhang Shizhi and Feng Tang" 42, "Biography of Uncle Wan Shi Zhang" 43, "The Biography of Uncle Tian" 44, "The Biography of Bian Quecang Gong" 45, "The Biography of Wu Wangbi" 46, "The Biography of Wei Qiwu'an" 47, "The Biography of Han Changru" 48, "The Biography of General Li" 49, "The Biography of General Wei Hussar" 50, "The Biography of the Master of Pingjin" 51, "Biography of Xiongnu" 52nd, "Biography of South Vietnam" 53rd, "Biography of Minyue" 54th, "Biography of Korea" 55th, "Biography of Southwest Yi" 56th, "Biography of Sima Xiangru" 57th, "Biography of Huainan Hengshan" 58th, "Biography of Xunli" 59th, "Biography of Jizheng" 6th 10. The 61st "Biography of Scholars", the 62nd "Biography of Cool Officials", the 63rd "Biography of Dawan", the 64th "Biography of Rangers", the 65th "Biography of Ni Xing", the 66th "Biography of Funny", the 67th "Biography of Yue Zhe", the 68th "Biography of Guice", and the 69th "Biography of Huo Shi".
The Han Dynasty inherited the work of the Five Emperors and continued the interrupted work of the three generations.
The royal power of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and the Qin Dynasty destroyed ancient cultural classics and burned "Poems" and "Books", thus causing the jade plates and books in the Mingtang and the stone chamber to be scattered.
When the Han Dynasty was established, Xiao He promulgated laws and regulations, Han Xin rectified military law, Zhang Cang formulated regulations, and Shusun Tong formulated etiquette. As a result, literary scholars with both good character and learning were gradually used, and classics such as "Poems" and "Books" were constantly discovered in various places.
Since Cao Shen recommended Gai Gong and advocated Huang Lao's theory, Jia Yi and Chao Cuo were familiar with the Legalist theories of Shen Buhai and Han Fei, and Gongsun Hong became famous because of Confucianism, in the past hundred years, all the old affairs of the world have been collected in Taishi Gong's office.
Tai Shigong and his son took up this position one after another. Tai Shigong said: Ah!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
余维先人尝掌斯事，显于唐、虞；至于周，复典之。故司马氏世主天宫，至于余乎，钦念哉！
网罗天下放失旧闻，王迹所兴，原始察终，见盛观衰，论考之行事，略三代，录秦、汉，上记轩辕，下至于兹，著十二本纪；既科条之矣，并时异世，年差不明，作十表；礼乐损益，律历改易，兵权、山川、鬼神，天人之际，承敝通变，作八书；二十八宿环北辰，三十辐共一毂，运行无穷，辅弼股肱之臣配焉，忠信行道以奉主上，作三十世家；扶义俶傥，不令己失时，立功名于天下，作七十列传：凡百三十篇，五十二万六千五百字，为《太史公书》。
序略，以拾遗补蓺，成一家言，协《六经》异传，齐百家杂语，臧之名山，副在京师，以俟后圣君子。
第七十，迁之自叙云尔。
而十篇缺，有录无书。
迁既被刑之后，为中书令，尊宠任职。
故人益州刺史任安予迁书，责以古贤臣之义。
迁报之曰：
少卿足下：曩者辱赐书，教以慎于接物，推贤进士为务。
意气勤勤恳恳，若望仆不相师用，而流俗人之言。仆非敢如是也。
虽罢驽，亦尝侧闻长者遗风矣。
顾自以为身残处秽，动而见尤，欲益反损，是以抑郁而无谁语。谚曰： 谁为为之，孰令听之？
盖钟子期死，伯牙终身不复鼓琴。
何则？
士为知已用，女为说己容。
若仆大质已亏缺，虽材怀随、行，行若由、夷，终不可以为荣，适足以发笑而自点耳。
书辞宜答，会东从上来，又迫贱事，相见日浅，卒卒无须臾之间得竭指意。
今少卿抱不测之罪，涉旬月，迫季冬，仆又薄从上上雍，恐卒然不可讳。
是仆终已不得舒愤懑以晓左右，则长逝者魂魄私恨无穷。
请略陈固陋。
阙然不报，幸勿过。
仆闻之：修身者，智之府也；爱施者，仁之端也；取予者，义之符也；耻辱者，勇之决也；立名者，行之极也：士有此五者，然后可以托于世，列于君子之林矣。
translation: 
Supporting the righteous, generous and outstanding people, they did not let themselves lose the opportunity, and established their fame in the world, and wrote seventy biographies for them.
The book has a total of 130 chapters and 526,500 words. This is the "Tai Shi Gong Shu".
This "Preface" summarizes the purpose of the narrative, which is to pick up lost historical events to supplement the shortcomings of the six arts and become a family story. It harmonizes various interpretations of the Six Classics and organizes hundreds of miscellaneous theories. Hide the original in a famous mountain and leave the copy in the capital, waiting for future generations of saints and gentlemen to view it.
The seventieth chapter of the biographies is Sima Qian's autobiography.
However, ten articles are missing among the one hundred and thirty articles. There is a table of contents but no content.
After Sima Qian was sentenced, he was appointed Zhongshu Ling, a high-ranking official.
His old friend Ren An, the governor of Yizhou, wrote to him and asked him to use the standards of ancient wise ministers.
Sima Qian wrote back:
Your Majesty, Shaoqing: Thank you for writing to me earlier, teaching me to be cautious in dealing with people and dealing with people, and to shoulder my due obligation to recommend talents to the emperor.
The letter is sincere and sincere, as if you are reproaching me for not following your advice but for following worldly rumors. I dare not do this.
Although I have mediocre talents, I have also listened to the teachings of respected elders.
It's just that I think my body is disabled and I am in a lowly position. I will be criticized for my slightest actions. Subjectively I want to make a difference, but objectively it will cause harm. Therefore, I am depressed and can't find a close friend to talk to. As the saying goes: For whom do I do this, and who will listen to me?
Therefore, when Zhong Ziqi died, Boya stopped playing the harp for the rest of his life.
Why?
Because a gentleman works for those who know him; a woman dresses for those who love her.
A physically disabled person like me, even if I have valuable talents like Suihou Pearl and He Shibi, and noble moral character like Xu You and Boyi, I cannot be proud of it. On the contrary, I will be ridiculed by others and make myself even more filthy.
I should have replied to you a long time ago. I just returned from the emperor's eastward tour, and I am busy with trivial matters. The days we see each other are getting fewer and fewer, and I am in a hurry and have no time to explain my feelings in detail.
Now you are in catastrophe, and the execution date will be close in a month. I will follow the emperor to Yongdi again. I am afraid that you will encounter misfortune in the blink of an eye.
In this way, it will be impossible for me to express my inner resentment to you, and your soul under the Nine Springs will also hold endless hatred.
Please allow me to share my humble opinion.
I apologize for not replying to you for a long time.
I have heard: Strengthening self-cultivation is a symbol of wisdom; being willing to give alms is the beginning of benevolence; choosing appropriately is a manifestation of morality; treating shame correctly is the criterion for judging bravery; establishing a good reputation is the highest criterion of conduct. Only when scholars possess these five things can they gain a foothold in society and enter the ranks of gentlemen.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故祸莫忄朁于欲利，悲莫痛于伤心，行莫丑于辱先，而诟莫大于宫刑。
刑余之人，无所比数，非一世也，所从来远矣！
昔卫灵公与雍渠载，孔子适陈；商鞅因景监见，赵良寒心；同子参乘，爰丝变色：自古而耻之。
夫中材之人，事关于宦竖，莫不伤气，况忼慨之士乎！
如今朝虽乏人，奈何令刀锯之余荐天下豪隽哉！
仆赖先人绪业，得待罪辇毂下，二十余年矣。
所以自惟：上之，不能纳忠效信，有奇策材力之誉，自结明主；次之，又不能拾遗补阙，招贤进能，显岩穴之士；外之，不能备行伍，攻城野战，有斩将搴旗之功；下之，不能累日积劳，取尊官厚禄，以为宗族交游光宠。
四者无一遂，苟合取容，无所短长之效，可见于此矣。
乡者，仆亦尝厕下大夫之列，陪外廷末议。
不以此时引维纲，尽思虑，今已亏形为扫除之隶，在阘茸之中，乃欲卬首信眉，论列是非，不亦轻朝廷，羞当世之士邪！
嗟乎！嗟乎！
如仆，尚何言哉！
尚何言哉！且事本末未易明也。
仆少负不羁之才，长无乡曲之誉，主上幸以先人之故，使得奉薄技，出入周卫之中。
仆以为戴盆何以望天，故绝宾客之知，忘室家之业，日夜思竭其不肖之材力，务壹心营职，以求亲媚于主上。
而事乃有大谬不然者。
夫仆与李陵俱居门下，素非相善也，趣舍异路，未尝衔杯酒接殷勤之欢。
然仆观其为人自奇士，事亲孝，与士信，临财廉，取予义，分别有让，恭俭下人，常思奋不顾身以徇国家之急。
其素所畜积也，仆以为有国士之风。
夫人臣出万死不顾一生之计，赴公家之难，斯已奇矣。
translation: 
Therefore, the worst disaster is greed for self-interest; the most painful sorrow is hurting one's self-esteem; the ugliest behavior is humiliating one's ancestors; and the greatest shame is being castrated.
No one wants to be with a person who has been castrated. This is not a one-time thing, but has been going on for a long time.
Once upon a time, Duke Ling of Wei was riding in the same carriage with Duke Ling of Wei who broke into Yongqu. Confucius, who was accompanying him, felt humiliated and left Wei for Chen. Shang Yang relied on the recommendation of Duke Jingjian of Qin to gain a high position from Duke Xiao of Qin. Zhao Liang was afraid of this. Eunuchs have been regarded as shameful people since ancient times.
Even ordinary people, when it comes to matters related to eunuchs, their spirits will be dampened, let alone those impassioned scholars!
Although the imperial court lacks talents, how can a person who has been castrated to recommend heroes to the world?
Relying on my father's side job, I have been able to serve in the capital for more than 20 years.
On weekdays, I often think: On the one hand, I failed to be loyal and gain the reputation of being a clever and talented person, so as to win the appreciation of the sage monarch; secondly, I failed to fill gaps for the emperor and recruit talents to show the talents of those hermits;
None of these four succeeded, they just muddle along and were tolerated by the emperor.
I don't have any merits worth mentioning, as you can see from these. In the past, I also lived in the ranks of the lower officials, serving in the court and making some trivial comments.
But I did not defend the country's laws and use my wisdom for the country at that time. Now I am physically disabled and have become a slave to sweep away. In such a humble position, I have to be proud and talk about right and wrong. Isn't this contempt for the court and humiliation of today's scholars? well! well!
What else can a person like me say?
What else is there to say?
Besides, the whole story is not easy to explain clearly.
When I was young, I was very talented, but when I grew up, I could not win the praise of the village. Fortunately, the emperor, because of my father's relationship, allowed me to contribute my meager talents and go in and out of the heavily guarded palace.
I thought that I couldn't see the sky with a pot on my head, so I cut off my friends, put my family's personal affairs aside, and spent my nights thinking about using my meager talents and concentrating on my job to win the favor of the emperor.
However, things turned out to be exactly the opposite.
Li Ling and I were both serving in the palace, and we were not always close to each other. We had different thoughts and interests, and we never drank or made friends together.
But I observed his behavior, he is an outstanding person who can keep his own integrity. He served his parents very filially, was trustworthy when making friends, was honest and courteous in his dealings with property, valued morality and righteousness when making choices, was courteous to the elders and young, was humble and self-restrained, courteous to the virtuous and corporal, and often thought of risking his own life and dedicating himself to the danger of the country.
Judging from his usual self-cultivation and moral character, I think he has the demeanor of an outstanding talent in the country.
As a minister, it is remarkable that he would rather die than live for a lifetime and go to the country's crisis!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今举事壹不当，而全躯保妻子之臣随而媒孽其短，仆诚私心痛之！
且李陵提步卒不满五千，深践戎马之地，足历王庭，垂饵虎口，横挑强胡，卬亿万之师，与单于连战十余日，所杀过当。
虏救死扶伤不给，旃裘之君长咸震怖，乃悉征左右贤王，举引弓之民，一国共攻而围之。
转斗千里，矢尽道穷，救兵不至，士卒死伤如积。
然李陵一呼劳军，士无不起，躬流涕，沫血饮泣，张空弮，冒白刃，北首争死敌。
陵未没时，使有来报，汉公卿王侯皆奉觞上寿。
后数日，陵败书闻，主上为之食不甘味，听朝不怡。大臣忧惧，不知所出。
仆窃不自料其卑贱，见主上惨凄怛悼，诚欲效其款款之愚。
以为李陵素与士大夫绝甘分少，能得人之死力，虽古名将不过也。
身虽陷败，彼观其意，且欲得其当而报汉。
事已无可奈何，其所摧败，攻亦足以暴于天下。
仆怀欲陈之，而未有路，适会召问，即以此指推言陵功，欲以广主上之意，塞睚眦之辞。
未能尽明，明主不深晓，以为仆沮贰师，而为李陵游说，遂下于理。
拳拳之忠，终不能自列。因为诬上，卒从吏议。
家贫，财赂不足以自赎，交游莫救，左右亲近不为一言。
身非木石，独与法吏为伍，深幽囹圄之中，谁可告诉者！
此正少卿所亲见，仆行事岂不然邪？
李陵既生降，颓其家声，而仆又茸以蚕室，重为天下观笑。
translation: 
Now, because he did something wrong, those ministers who were greedy for life and fearful of death, and who only cared about protecting the lives of their families, would arbitrarily frame him and exaggerate his charges. I feel very sad about this.
Moreover, Li Ling led less than 5,000 infantrymen and marched straight into the battlefield, reaching the royal court of the Huns. Although his army was just a force that lured tigers, he was able to take the initiative, challenge everywhere, and attack powerful enemies. He fought with Shanyu's army for more than ten days and killed more enemies than his own army lost.
The enemy soldiers were killed so much that they didn't even bother to save their lives or heal their wounded. The Xiongnu rulers were all shocked, so they mobilized the troops of the wise kings on the left and right, mobilized all those who could draw bows and fought, and used all the strength of the country to besiege them.
Li Ling's army fought for thousands of miles, but the arrows were exhausted and there was no way to go. No reinforcements arrived, and the dead and wounded soldiers piled up like mountains.
It was under such circumstances that when Li Ling gave an order, the exhausted soldiers all rose up. With tears in their eyes and blood on their faces, they swallowed their tears, raised their empty bows, kept the enemy's weapons, and rushed north to fight the enemy to the death.
Before Li Ling's army was defeated, an envoy came to report the battle situation. The princes and ministers in the court all raised their glasses to congratulate the emperor.
But a few days later, news of Li Ling's defeat came. The emperor's food was not good and his court was unhappy. The ministers were worried and afraid, and they didn't know what to do.
I do not think of my humble status, but seeing the Lord's extremely sad mood, I really want to be loyal to the Emperor.
I think Li Ling has always been very kind to his soldiers, so he can get the desperate efforts of his subordinates. Even the famous generals in ancient times cannot catch up with him.
Although Li Ling failed and was captured, I think his intention was to repay the Han with meritorious deeds against the Huns, so as to offset the crime of his defeat.
Things have reached this point and are irreversible, but the merit of penetrating into the enemy's position and defeating the enemy is enough to bring glory to the world.
I wanted to express these thoughts to the Lord, but I didn’t get the chance. When the Lord happened to ask, I discussed Li Ling's achievements based on the above meaning, hoping to comfort the Lord and stop the slanderous rumors that framed Li Ling.
However, because I did not explain clearly, and the master of Shengming did not investigate further, he thought that I was slandering General Ershi and exonerating Li Ling, so he handed me over to Dali Temple for punishment.
I never had a chance to express my sincerity and loyalty, and I was accused of deceiving the king. The Lord finally agreed with the judge's sentence.
My family was poor and I had no money to atone for my sins. None of my friends came to rescue me, and none of the Lord’s close followers said a word for me.
My body is not like grass, trees or stones. I deal with the judge alone and am imprisoned in a deep prison. Who can I tell my sufferings to!
These are exactly what you saw with your own eyes. Isn’t this what happened to me?
Li Ling had surrendered to the Huns, ruining his family's reputation, but I was sentenced to death by castration and lived in a silkworm room, suffering humiliation and being ridiculed by everyone in the world.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
悲夫！
悲夫！
事未易一二为俗人言也。
仆之先人，非有剖符丹书之功，文史、星历，近乎卜祝之间，固主上所戏弄，倡优畜之，流俗之所轻也。
假令仆伏法受诛，若九牛亡一毛，与蝼蚁何异！
而世又不与能死节者比，特以为智穷罪极，不能自免，卒就死耳。
何也？
素所自树立使然。
人固有一死，死有重于泰山，或轻于鸿毛，用之所趋异也。
太上不辱先，其次不辱身，其次不辱理色，其次不辱辞令，其次诎体受辱，其次易服受辱，其次关木索被箠楚受辱，其次剔毛发婴金铁受辱，其次毁肌肤断支体受辱，最下腐刑，极矣。传曰 刑不上大夫 ，此言士节不可不厉也。
猛虎处深山，百兽震恐，及其在阱槛之中，摇尾而求食，积威约之渐也。
故士有画地为牢势不入，削木为吏议不对，定计于鲜也。
今交手足，受木索，暴肌肤，受榜箠，幽于圜墙之中，当此之时，见狱吏则头枪地，视徒隶则心惕息。
何者？积威约之势也。
及已至此，言不辱者，所谓强颜耳，曷足贵乎！
translation: 
How sad!
How sad!
Some things are not easy to explain clearly to secular people.
My ancestors did not have any meritorious service such as receiving the Talisman Dissection Book, but the officials in charge of literature, history, stars, and calendars had similar status to the fortune tellers and Zhu officials. They were originally driven by the emperor, just like the supporting actors, and they were palace positions despised by the world.
If I die after obeying the law, it is like losing a single hair on the body of a nine-oxen and becoming insignificant. What is the difference between a mole cricket or an ant being trampled to death?
And public opinion cannot regard me as dying for integrity and justice. It just thinks that I have exhausted my wits, committed such a heinous crime, and was unable to free myself, so I was finally killed.
Why?
The profession they usually engage in inevitably makes people have this view.
People are always going to die. Some die heavier than a mountain, and some die lighter than a feather. This is because they have different effects of death.
It is best for a person not to humiliate his ancestors. The next best thing is not to humiliate himself. The next best thing is not to humiliate his face. The next best thing is not to be humiliated by his words. The third best thing is not to suffer the humiliation of being tied up. The next best thing is not to be humiliated by wearing ocher clothes. Second to this is the humiliation of wearing instruments of torture, being tortured, shaving your head, and wearing iron chains. Even lower than this is the humiliation of having your body destroyed. The lowest level is the humiliation of being tortured, which reaches the pinnacle of humiliation. "Book of Rites" says: No punishment or humiliation will be imposed on those above the rank of official.
Training means that scholars must strictly maintain their conduct. Tigers roam deep in the mountains, and all animals feel fear, but once they fall into traps or cages, they will sway their heads and tails to beg for food from humans. This habit of succumbing to human power is gradually formed.
Therefore, there is such a scholar who dares not go in even if he draws a circle on the ground as a prison, or dares to raise his head to answer a question even if he cuts a piece of wood to serve as an official. Instead, he is determined to commit suicide before he is humiliated.
Now, my hands and feet were tied, I was put on a torture device, my clothes were stripped off, I was whipped, and I was locked up in a prison with four high walls. At this time, he would kowtow to the jailer when he saw him, and he would be frightened when he met the jailer. Why?
It was caused by the gradual accumulation of fear towards the power of the jailers.
Having reached this point, but saying that he has not been humiliated, isn't it shameless? How can there be any dignity at all?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
且西伯，伯也，拘牖里；李斯，相也，具五刑；淮阴，王也，受械于陈；彭越、张敖，南乡称孤，系狱具罪；绛侯诛诸吕，权倾五伯，囚于请室；魏其，大将也，衣赭，关三木；季布为朱家钳奴；灌夫受辱居室；此人皆身至王侯将相，声闻邻国，及罪至罔加，不能引决自财。
在尘埃之中，古今一体，安在其不辱也！
由此言之，勇怯，势也；强弱，形也。审矣，曷足怪乎！
且人不能蚤自财绳墨之外，已稍陵夷至于鞭箠之间，乃欲引节，斯不亦远乎！
古人所以重施刑于大夫者，殆为此也。
夫人情莫不贪生恶死，念亲戚，顾妻子，至激于义理者不然，乃有不得已也。
今仆不幸，蚤失二亲，无兄弟之亲，独身孤立，少卿视仆于妻子何如哉？
且勇者不必死节，怯夫慕义，何处不勉焉！
仆虽怯耎欲苟活，亦颇识去就之分矣，何至自湛溺累绁之辱哉！
且夫臧获婢妾犹能引决，况若仆之不得已乎！
所以隐忍苟活，函粪土之中而不辞者，恨私心有所不尽，鄙没世而文采不表于后也。
古者富贵而名摩灭，不可胜记，唯俶傥非常之人称焉。
盖西伯拘而演《周易》；仲尼厄而作《春秋》；屈原放逐，乃赋《离骚》；左丘失明，厥有《国语》，孙子膑脚，《兵法》修列；不韦迁蜀，世传《吕览》；韩非囚秦，《说难》、《孤愤》。
《诗》三百篇，大氐贤圣发愤之所为作也。
此人皆意有所郁结，不得通其道，故述往事，思来者。
及如左丘无目，孙子断足，终不可用，退论书策以舒其愤，思垂空文以自见。
translation: 
Moreover, Xibo, as a prince, was also imprisoned in Xianli; Li Si, who was once prime minister, also suffered five kinds of punishments; Huaiyin Marquis was originally the king, but was arrested in Chendi; Peng Yue and Zhang Ao once claimed the title of king in Nanxiang, but were also imprisoned for their crimes. He was imprisoned; Jianghou Zhou Bo destroyed Zhu Lu and became more powerful than the five hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period, but was imprisoned in the invitation room; Wei Qihou was a general, and he also wore ocher clothes and torture tools; Ji Bu was tortured and made a slave of the Zhu family; Guan Fu was also imprisoned and humiliated. These people were once princes, generals and ministers, and their reputations spread far and wide. When their crimes were brought to justice, they could not commit suicide early.
People who fall into the dust are the same from ancient times to the present. How can they not be humiliated?
From this point of view, courage, timidity, strength and weakness are all determined by the situation. If you understand this truth, what is there to be surprised about?
A person cannot commit suicide before legal punishment. Isn't it too late to hesitate for a moment and wait until the situation worsens and the whip falls on him before he wants to die for his integrity?
This is probably the reason why it was difficult for the ancients to torture doctors.
Speaking of human nature, there is no one who is not greedy for life, afraid of death, and misses his parents, brothers, wife and children. The only exception is those who are inspired by justice. However, there are also situations where there is no choice.
Now I am unfortunate, my parents are dead long ago, I have no brothers, I am alone. Shaoqing, what do you think of my treatment of my wife and children?
Brave people do not necessarily die for the sake of integrity. If a cowardly person admires integrity, he will encourage himself everywhere.
Although I am weak and want to live an ignoble existence, I am also very aware of the weight of sacrificing my life for righteousness. Why suffer the shame of going to jail!
Besides, servants, maids, and concubines can still go to the Day of the Righteous Death, let alone someone like me who has to be in a desperate situation!
The reason why I endured the humiliation and survived, even when I fell into the dirt, was because I regretted that my will had not yet been expressed. If I died silently, my articles and writings would not be passed down to future generations.
In ancient times, there were many people who were wealthy and unknown, too many to count. Only the outstanding and extraordinary people will be remembered in future generations.
King Wen of Zhou was imprisoned in Xianli and deduced "The Book of Changes"; Confucius was impoverished and wrote "Spring and Autumn"; Qu Yuan was exiled and wrote "Li Sao"; Zuo Qiuming was blind and wrote "Guoyu"; Sun Tzu was executed and wrote "The Art of War"; Lu Buwei was exiled to Shu, and his "Lü Lan" was passed down to later generations; Han Fei was imprisoned in Qin and wrote "Speaking of Difficulties" and "Huan Ang".
There are 300 poems in "Poetry", most of which are works by sages expressing their anger.
These people are all depressed because their ideals cannot be realized, so they discuss the past to place their hopes in the future.
Just like Zuo Qiuming, who lost his eyesight, his grandson lost his legs and could no longer be used by the world for the rest of his life, so he retired and wrote books to express his inner resentment in the hope that the article would be passed down to future generations and his feelings could be expressed.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
仆窃不逊，近自托于无能之辞，网罗天下放失旧闻，考之行事，稽其成败兴坏之理，凡百三十篇，亦欲以究天人之际，通古今之变，成一家之言。
草创未就，适会此祸，惜其不成，是以就极刑而无愠色。
仆诚已著此书，藏之名山，传之其人，通邑大都，则仆偿前辱之责，虽万被戮，岂有悔哉！
然此可为智者道，难为俗人言也。
且负下未易居，下流多谤议。
仆以口语遇遭此祸，重为乡党戮笑，污辱先人，亦何面目复上父母之丘墓乎？
虽累百世，垢弥甚耳！
是以肠一日而九回，居则忽忽若有所亡，出则不知所如往。
每念斯耻，汗未尝不发背沾衣也。
身直为闺阁之臣，宁得自引深臧于岩穴邪！故且从俗浮湛，与时俯仰，以通其狂惑。
今少卿乃教以推贤进士，无乃与仆之私指谬乎？
今虽欲自雕瑑，曼辞以自解，无益，于俗不信，只取辱耳。
要之死日，然后是非乃定。
书不能尽意，故略陈固陋。
迁既死后，其书稍出。
宣帝时，迁外孙平通侯杨惲祖述其书，遂宣布焉。
王莽时，求封迁后，为史通子。
赞曰：自古书契之作而有史官，其载籍博矣。
至孔氏籑之，上断唐尧，下讫秦缪。
唐、虞以前，虽有遗文，其语不经，故言黄帝、颛顼之事未可明也。
及孔子因鲁史记而作《春秋》，而左丘明论辑其本事以为之传，又籑异同为《国语》。
又有《世本》，录黄帝以来至春秋时帝王、公、侯、卿、大夫祖世所出。
春秋之后，七国并争，秦兼诸侯，有《战国策》。
translation: 
In recent years, I have overestimated my ability and expressed my thoughts in superficial articles. I have collected old stories that have been lost all over the world, examined historical facts, studied the reasons for the success or failure of enterprises, and explored the reasons for the rise and fall of dynasties. There are a total of 130 articles. I also want to use them to reflect the relationship between nature and society, understand the changes from ancient times to the present, and form a theory.
The first draft was not finished yet, just in time for this disaster. I regret that the book was not completed, and therefore suffered a capital punishment without any sign of resentment.
I really completed the writing of this book, kept it in a famous mountain, and passed it on to like-minded people in Tongdu and Dayi. In this way, I can repay the debt of humiliation I suffered in the past. Even if I am killed, I will never regret it!
However, these can only be told to knowledgeable people, and it is difficult to tell simple people.
Moreover, it is difficult to gain a foothold in society with a bad reputation, and one's humble status is often slandered.
I suffered this disaster because of my comments. I was ridiculed by the villagers and insulted my ancestors. How could I go to pay homage to my parents' graves?
Even after EMI, the shame will still get deeper and deeper!
Therefore, I felt restless all day long. I stayed at home and felt as if I had lost something. When I went outside, I didn't know where to go.
Whenever I think of this shame, my clothes are soaked in cold sweat.
I am just a servant in the palace, how can I live in seclusion in the mountains! So I had no choice but to go with the flow for the time being and live a muddle-headed life to express my inner depression.
Now Shaoqing is teaching me to recommend wise men. I am afraid this is contrary to my personal thoughts!
Now even if I want to decorate myself and use beautiful words to liberate myself, it is useless. The worldly people will not believe me. On the contrary, it will only bring shame.
In short, right and wrong will only be decided on the day of death.
This letter cannot express my thoughts in detail, but only briefly outlines my superficial opinions.
After Sima Qian's death, his books gradually spread.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Sima Qian's grandson Yang Pang, Marquis of Pingtong, was the first to state Sima Qian's works, and thus they were published.
When Wang Mang arrived, someone requested that Sima Qian's descendants be granted the title of Shi Tongzi.
Zan said: Since the ancients had writing, there have been historians and many historical books have been written.
When Confucius compiled the history books, they started from the Tang Yao period and ended with the Qin Mu Gong period.
Although there are written texts about the previous situations of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, they are not considered classics, and the deeds of Huang Di and Zhuan Xu are not so clear.
When Confucius based his historical work "Spring and Autumn" on the state of Lu, Zuo Qiuming expounded and compiled relevant historical facts to write a biography of "Spring and Autumn", and compiled similar and different historical materials into "Guoyu".
There is also the "Shiben", which records the ancestors and lineages of emperors, princes, and officials from the Yellow Emperor to the Spring and Autumn Period.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, seven kingdoms competed for supremacy, and finally the Qin State annexed all the vassal states. The history book that records this period of history is the Warring States Policy.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
汉兴伐秦定天下，有《楚汉春秋》。
故司马迁据《左氏》、《国语》，采《世本》、《战国策》，述《楚汉春秋》，接其后事，讫于天汉。
其言秦、汉，详矣。
至于采经摭传，分散数家之事，甚多疏略，或有抵梧。
亦其涉猎者广博，贯穿经传，驰骋古今，上下数千载间，斯以勤矣。
又，其是非颇缪于圣人，论大道而先黄、老而后六经，序游侠则退处士而进奸雄，述货殖则崇势利而羞贱贫，此其所蔽也。
然自刘向、扬雄博极群书，皆称迁有良史之材，服其善序事理，辨而不华，质而不俚，其文直，其事核，不虚美，不隐恶，故谓之实录。
乌呼！以迁之博物洽闻，而不能以知自全，既陷极刑，幽而发愤，书亦信矣。
迹其所以自伤悼，《小雅》巷伯之伦。
夫唯《大雅》 既明且哲，能保其身 ，难矣哉！
translation: 
The rise of the Han Dynasty overthrew the Qin Dynasty and brought peace to the world. This period of history is recorded in the Chu-Han Spring and Autumn Annals.
Therefore, Sima Qian used some historical materials from "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu" and "Guo Yu" and "Shi Ben" and "Warring States Policy" to state the historical facts of "Chu Han Chun Qiu" and continued to record subsequent historical events, ending in the Tianhan period.
The history of the Qin and Han Dynasties is very detailed.
As for collecting and excerpting scriptures and biographies, and recording the historical events of several families, there are many places that are rough and concise, and some are contradictory.
In addition, he has covered a wide range of subjects, and has penetrated the classics and biographies, spanning thousands of years from ancient to modern times. This is the result of his diligent efforts.
In addition, his view of right and wrong is very different from that of the saints. When discussing the great road, he mainly focuses on Huang Lao's theory and supplements it with the Six Classics; when describing knights, he demotes hermits and promotes traitors; when describing economic activities, he advocates power and wealth and humiliates the poor. These are his shortcomings.
However, from Liu Xiang to Yang Xiong, these people were well-read, and they all praised Sima Qian for his talent as a good historian. They admired him for being good at explaining the truth of things in a preface, clear distinction but not gorgeous, simple but not vulgar. well!
Although Sima Qian was knowledgeable and well-informed, he could not rely on his wisdom to protect himself. He had already suffered the death penalty and was still writing vigorously in prison. What he stated in his letter to Ren An was also credible.
Investigate why he mourns himself, it belongs to the Book of Songs. People like Xiangbo in "Xiaoya".
Like the Book of Songs. As stated in "Daya", it is so difficult to be discerning and smart and still protect yourself!


