Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 21]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
楚之先祖出自帝颛顼高阳。
高阳者，黄帝之孙，昌意之子也。
高阳生称，称生卷章，卷章生重黎。
重黎为帝喾高辛居火正，甚有功，能光融天下，帝喾命曰祝融。
共工氏作乱，帝喾使重黎诛之而不尽。
帝乃以庚寅日诛重黎，而以其弟吴回为重黎后，复居火正，为祝融。
吴回生陆终。
陆终生子六人，坼剖而产焉。
其长一曰昆吾；二曰参胡；三曰彭祖；四曰会人；五曰曹姓；六曰季连，芈ǐ姓，楚其后也。
昆吾氏，夏之时尝为侯伯，桀之时汤灭之。
彭祖氏，殷之时尝为侯伯，殷之末世灭彭祖氏。
季连生附沮，附沮生穴熊。
其后中微，或在中国，或在蛮夷，弗能纪其世。
周文王之时，季连之苗裔曰鬻熊。
鬻熊子事文王，蚤卒。
其子曰熊丽。
熊丽生熊狂，熊狂生熊绎。
熊绎当周成王之时，举文、武勤劳之后嗣，而封熊绎于楚蛮，封以子男之田，姓芈氏，居丹阳。
楚子熊绎与鲁公伯禽、卫康叔子牟、晋侯燮、齐太公子吕伋俱事成王。
熊绎生熊艾，熊艾生熊，熊生熊胜。
熊胜以弟熊杨为后。
熊杨生熊渠。
熊渠生子三人。
当周夷王之时，王室微，诸侯或不朝，相伐。
熊渠甚得江汉间民和，乃兴兵伐庸、杨粤，至于鄂。
熊渠曰： 我蛮夷也，不与中国之号谥。
乃立其长子康为句亶王，中子红为鄂王，少子执疵为越章王，皆在江上楚蛮之地。
及周厉王之时，暴虐，熊渠畏其伐楚，亦去其王。
后为熊毋康，毋康蚤死。
熊渠卒，子熊挚红立。
挚红卒，其弟弑而代立，曰熊延。
熊延生熊勇。
熊勇六年，而周人作乱，攻厉王，厉王出奔彘。
熊勇十年，卒，弟熊严为后。
熊严十年，卒。
有子四人，长子伯霜，中子仲雪，次子叔堪，少子季徇。
熊严卒，长子伯霜代立，是为熊霜。
熊霜元年，周宣王初立。
熊霜六年，卒，三弟争立。
仲雪死；叔堪亡，避难于濮；而少弟季徇立，是为熊徇。
熊徇十六年，郑桓公初封于郑。
二十二年，熊徇卒，子熊咢立。
熊咢九年，卒，子熊仪立，是为若敖。
若敖二十年，周幽王为犬戎所弑，周东徙，而秦襄公始列为诸侯。
二十七年，若敖卒，子熊坎立，是为霄敖。
霄敖六年，卒，子熊眴立，是为鼢冒。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Chu State came from Gaoyang, Emperor Zhuanxu.
Gao Yang is the grandson of Huangdi and the son of Changyi.
Gao Yang gave birth to Cheng, Cheng gave birth to Juan Zhang, and Juan Zhang gave birth to Chong Li.
Chongli became the Huozheng of Emperor Ku's Gaoxin family. He was very meritorious and could illuminate the world. Emperor Ku gave him the title of Zhu Rong.
The Gonggong clan launched a civil strife, and Emperor Ku asked Chong Li to kill the rebels, but he did not kill them all.
Emperor Ku killed Chongli on the day of Gengyin, and asked his younger brother Wu Hui to succeed Chongli and also take up the post of Huozheng, still called Zhurong.
Wu Hui gave birth to Lu Zhong.
Lu Zhong had six sons, all born by caesarean section.
The eldest son is called Kunwu, the second son is called Shenhu, the third son is called Pengzu, the fourth son is called Huiren, the fifth son is named Cao, the sixth son is named Jilian, and Jilian's surname is Mi. He is the ancestor of the Chu king's family.
Kunwu once served as Hou Bo during the Xia and Shang Dynasties, but was destroyed by Tang during the Jie Dynasty.
Peng Zu once served as Hou Bo during the Yin Dynasty. At the end of the Yin Dynasty, Peng Zu was destroyed.
Ji Lian gave birth to Fuju, and Fuju gave birth to Cave Bear.
His descendants declined midway. Some were in the Central Plains, and some were in barbarians, and history books failed to record their lineages.
During the reign of King Wen of Zhou Dynasty, there was a descendant of Ji Lian called Wan Xiong.
Wu Xiong served King Wen like a son and died young.
His son's name is Xiong Li.
Xiong Li gave birth to Xiong Kuang, and Xiong Kuang gave birth to Xiong Yi.
Xiong Yi was in the era of King Cheng of Zhou Dynasty. King Cheng wanted to use the descendants of the heroes of King Wen and King Wu, so he granted Xiong Yi the title of baron in Chu Man. His surname was Mi and he lived in Danyang.
Xiong Yi, the son of Chu, served the king together with Bo Qin, the Duke of Lu, Zi Mou, the uncle of Wei Kang, Xie, the Marquis of Jin, and Lu Ji, the prince of Qi.
Xiong Yi gave birth to Xiong Ai, Xiong Ai gave birth to Xiong Ai, and Xiong Ai gave birth to Xiong Sheng.
Xiong Sheng made his younger brother Xiong Yang his successor.
Xiong Yang gave birth to Xiong Qu.
Xiong Qu has three sons.
During the reign of King Zhou Yi, the Zhou royal family declined. Some princes refused to pay homage to the emperor, and the princes attacked each other.
Xiong Qu won the support of the people along the Yangtze River and Han River, so he sent troops to attack Yong and Yang Yue, all the way to Hubei.
Xiong Qu said: I am located in a barbarian land, so I don’t have to have the same names and posthumous titles as those of other countries in the Central Plains.
So he named his eldest son Xiong Kang King of Judan, his second son Xiong Hong as King of E, and his youngest son Xiong Zhizhen as King of Yue Zhang, all in the Chuman area along the Yangtze River.
When King Li of Zhou came to power, Xiong Qu was worried that King Li would attack Chu due to his violent temper, so he removed his title as king.
Xiong Qu's successor was his eldest son Xiong Wukang, who died early.
After Xiong Qu's death, his second son Xiong Zhihong came to the throne.
Zhihong's younger brother killed him and took the throne himself. This was Xiong Yan.
Xiong Yan gave birth to Xiong Yong.
In the sixth year of Xiong Yong's reign, the Zhou people provoked civil strife and attacked King Li, who was forced to flee to Pig.
Xiong Yong reigned for ten years, passed away, and his younger brother Xiong Yan succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Yan reigned for ten years and passed away.
Xiong Yan has four sons, the eldest son is called Bo Shuang, the second son is called Zhong Xue, the second son is called Shu Kan, and the younger son is called Ji Liu.
Xiong Yan passed away. The eldest son Bo Shuang came to the throne, this is Xiong Shuang.
In the first year of Xiong Shuang, King Xuan of Zhou just ascended the throne.
Xiong Shuang died after six years of reign, and his three younger brothers competed with each other for the throne.
Zhongxue died, Shukan fled to Pu, and his youngest brother Ji Liu came to the throne, this is Xiong Liu.
In the sixteenth year of Xiong's reign, Duke Huan of Zheng had just been granted a title to Zheng.
In the 22nd year, Xiong You passed away and his son Xiong Ji came to the throne.
Xiong Jie passed away in the ninth year of his reign, and his son Xiong Yi came to the throne. This is Ruao.
In the 20th year of Ruao Ao, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, the capital of Zhou moved eastward, and Duke Xiang of Qin began to become a vassal.
In the twenty-seventh year, Ruo Ao died and his son Xiong Kan came to the throne. This was Xiao Ao.
Xiao Ao died in the sixth year of his reign, and his son Xiong Zhen came to the throne. This is Fimao.

summary:
summary line 0: The ancestors of the Chu State originated from Gaoyang, Emperor Zhuanxu, who was the grandson of Huangdi. The lineage passed through several generations to Chongli, who served as Huozheng under Emperor Ku and was granted the title Zhurong. After Chongli failed to completely suppress the Gonggong rebellion, Emperor Ku executed him and appointed his younger brother Wu Hui as his successor. Wu Hui fathered Luzhong, who had six sons by caesarean section. The youngest son, Jilian, whose surname was Mi, became the ancestor of the Chu royal family. Jilian's descendants included Yuxiong, who served King Wen of Zhou like a son but died young.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
楚之先祖出自帝颛顼高阳。
高阳者，黄帝之孙，昌意之子也。
高阳生称，称生卷章，卷章生重黎。
重黎为帝喾高辛居火正，甚有功，能光融天下，帝喾命曰祝融。
共工氏作乱，帝喾使重黎诛之而不尽。
帝乃以庚寅日诛重黎，而以其弟吴回为重黎后，复居火正，为祝融。
吴回生陆终。
陆终生子六人，坼剖而产焉。
其长一曰昆吾；二曰参胡；三曰彭祖；四曰会人；五曰曹姓；六曰季连，芈ǐ姓，楚其后也。
昆吾氏，夏之时尝为侯伯，桀之时汤灭之。
彭祖氏，殷之时尝为侯伯，殷之末世灭彭祖氏。
季连生附沮，附沮生穴熊。
其后中微，或在中国，或在蛮夷，弗能纪其世。
周文王之时，季连之苗裔曰鬻熊。
鬻熊子事文王，蚤卒。
其子曰熊丽。
熊丽生熊狂，熊狂生熊绎。
熊绎当周成王之时，举文、武勤劳之后嗣，而封熊绎于楚蛮，封以子男之田，姓芈氏，居丹阳。
楚子熊绎与鲁公伯禽、卫康叔子牟、晋侯燮、齐太公子吕伋俱事成王。
熊绎生熊艾，熊艾生熊，熊生熊胜。
熊胜以弟熊杨为后。
熊杨生熊渠。
熊渠生子三人。
当周夷王之时，王室微，诸侯或不朝，相伐。
熊渠甚得江汉间民和，乃兴兵伐庸、杨粤，至于鄂。
熊渠曰： 我蛮夷也，不与中国之号谥。
乃立其长子康为句亶王，中子红为鄂王，少子执疵为越章王，皆在江上楚蛮之地。
及周厉王之时，暴虐，熊渠畏其伐楚，亦去其王。
后为熊毋康，毋康蚤死。
熊渠卒，子熊挚红立。
挚红卒，其弟弑而代立，曰熊延。
熊延生熊勇。
熊勇六年，而周人作乱，攻厉王，厉王出奔彘。
熊勇十年，卒，弟熊严为后。
熊严十年，卒。
有子四人，长子伯霜，中子仲雪，次子叔堪，少子季徇。
熊严卒，长子伯霜代立，是为熊霜。
熊霜元年，周宣王初立。
熊霜六年，卒，三弟争立。
仲雪死；叔堪亡，避难于濮；而少弟季徇立，是为熊徇。
熊徇十六年，郑桓公初封于郑。
二十二年，熊徇卒，子熊咢立。
熊咢九年，卒，子熊仪立，是为若敖。
若敖二十年，周幽王为犬戎所弑，周东徙，而秦襄公始列为诸侯。
二十七年，若敖卒，子熊坎立，是为霄敖。
霄敖六年，卒，子熊眴立，是为鼢冒。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Chu State came from Gaoyang, Emperor Zhuanxu.
Gao Yang is the grandson of Huangdi and the son of Changyi.
Gao Yang gave birth to Cheng, Cheng gave birth to Juan Zhang, and Juan Zhang gave birth to Chong Li.
Chongli became the Huozheng of Emperor Ku's Gaoxin family. He was very meritorious and could illuminate the world. Emperor Ku gave him the title of Zhu Rong.
The Gonggong clan launched a civil strife, and Emperor Ku asked Chong Li to kill the rebels, but he did not kill them all.
Emperor Ku killed Chongli on the day of Gengyin, and asked his younger brother Wu Hui to succeed Chongli and also take up the post of Huozheng, still called Zhurong.
Wu Hui gave birth to Lu Zhong.
Lu Zhong had six sons, all born by caesarean section.
The eldest son is called Kunwu, the second son is called Shenhu, the third son is called Pengzu, the fourth son is called Huiren, the fifth son is named Cao, the sixth son is named Jilian, and Jilian's surname is Mi. He is the ancestor of the Chu king's family.
Kunwu once served as Hou Bo during the Xia and Shang Dynasties, but was destroyed by Tang during the Jie Dynasty.
Peng Zu once served as Hou Bo during the Yin Dynasty. At the end of the Yin Dynasty, Peng Zu was destroyed.
Ji Lian gave birth to Fuju, and Fuju gave birth to Cave Bear.
His descendants declined midway. Some were in the Central Plains, and some were in barbarians, and history books failed to record their lineages.
During the reign of King Wen of Zhou Dynasty, there was a descendant of Ji Lian called Wan Xiong.
Wu Xiong served King Wen like a son and died young.
His son's name is Xiong Li.
Xiong Li gave birth to Xiong Kuang, and Xiong Kuang gave birth to Xiong Yi.
Xiong Yi was in the era of King Cheng of Zhou Dynasty. King Cheng wanted to use the descendants of the heroes of King Wen and King Wu, so he granted Xiong Yi the title of baron in Chu Man. His surname was Mi and he lived in Danyang.
Xiong Yi, the son of Chu, served the king together with Bo Qin, the Duke of Lu, Zi Mou, the uncle of Wei Kang, Xie, the Marquis of Jin, and Lu Ji, the prince of Qi.
Xiong Yi gave birth to Xiong Ai, Xiong Ai gave birth to Xiong Ai, and Xiong Ai gave birth to Xiong Sheng.
Xiong Sheng made his younger brother Xiong Yang his successor.
Xiong Yang gave birth to Xiong Qu.
Xiong Qu has three sons.
During the reign of King Zhou Yi, the Zhou royal family declined. Some princes refused to pay homage to the emperor, and the princes attacked each other.
Xiong Qu won the support of the people along the Yangtze River and Han River, so he sent troops to attack Yong and Yang Yue, all the way to Hubei.
Xiong Qu said: I am located in a barbarian land, so I don’t have to have the same names and posthumous titles as those of other countries in the Central Plains.
So he named his eldest son Xiong Kang King of Judan, his second son Xiong Hong as King of E, and his youngest son Xiong Zhizhen as King of Yue Zhang, all in the Chuman area along the Yangtze River.
When King Li of Zhou came to power, Xiong Qu was worried that King Li would attack Chu due to his violent temper, so he removed his title as king.
Xiong Qu's successor was his eldest son Xiong Wukang, who died early.
After Xiong Qu's death, his second son Xiong Zhihong came to the throne.
Zhihong's younger brother killed him and took the throne himself. This was Xiong Yan.
Xiong Yan gave birth to Xiong Yong.
In the sixth year of Xiong Yong's reign, the Zhou people provoked civil strife and attacked King Li, who was forced to flee to Pig.
Xiong Yong reigned for ten years, passed away, and his younger brother Xiong Yan succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Yan reigned for ten years and passed away.
Xiong Yan has four sons, the eldest son is called Bo Shuang, the second son is called Zhong Xue, the second son is called Shu Kan, and the younger son is called Ji Liu.
Xiong Yan passed away. The eldest son Bo Shuang came to the throne, this is Xiong Shuang.
In the first year of Xiong Shuang, King Xuan of Zhou just ascended the throne.
Xiong Shuang died after six years of reign, and his three younger brothers competed with each other for the throne.
Zhongxue died, Shukan fled to Pu, and his youngest brother Ji Liu came to the throne, this is Xiong Liu.
In the sixteenth year of Xiong's reign, Duke Huan of Zheng had just been granted a title to Zheng.
In the 22nd year, Xiong You passed away and his son Xiong Ji came to the throne.
Xiong Jie passed away in the ninth year of his reign, and his son Xiong Yi came to the throne. This is Ruao.
In the 20th year of Ruao Ao, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, the capital of Zhou moved eastward, and Duke Xiang of Qin began to become a vassal.
In the twenty-seventh year, Ruo Ao died and his son Xiong Kan came to the throne. This was Xiao Ao.
Xiao Ao died in the sixth year of his reign, and his son Xiong Zhen came to the throne. This is Fimao.

summary:
summary line 1: During King Cheng of Zhou's reign, Yuxiong's descendant Xiong Yi was granted the title of baron in the Chu Man region with Danyang as his residence. Xiong Yi served the Zhou king alongside other noble descendants. The lineage continued through several generations until Xiong Qu, who gained support from people along the Yangtze and Han Rivers. He conquered territories including Yong and Yangyue, and declared his three sons kings of various regions in the Chu Man area. When King Li of Zhou ascended, Xiong Qu removed his kingly title out of fear.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
鼢冒十三年，晋始乱，以曲沃之故。
鼢冒十七年，卒。
鼢冒弟熊通弑鼢冒子而代立，是为楚武王。
武王十七年，晋之曲沃庄伯弑主国晋孝侯。
十九年，郑伯弟段作乱。
二十一年，郑侵天子之田。
二十三年，卫弑其君桓公。
二十九年，鲁弑其君隐公。
三十一年，宋太宰华督弑其君殇公。
三十五年，楚伐随。
随曰： 我无罪。
楚曰： 我蛮夷也。
今诸侯皆为叛相侵，或相杀。
我有敝甲，欲以观中国之政，请王室尊吾号。
随人为之周，请尊楚，王室不听，还报楚。
三十七年，楚熊通怒曰： 吾先鬻熊，文王之师也，蚤终。
成王举我先公，乃以子男田令居楚，蛮夷皆率服，而王不加位，我自尊耳。
乃自立为武王，与随人盟而去。
于是始开濮地而有之。
五十一年，周召随侯，数以立楚为王。
楚怒，以随背己，伐随。
武王卒师中而兵罢。
子文王熊赀立，始都郢。
文王二年，伐申过邓，邓人曰 楚王易取 ，邓侯不许也。
六年，伐蔡，虏蔡哀侯以归，已而释之。
楚强，陵江汉间小国，小国皆畏之。
十一年，齐桓公始霸，楚亦始大。
十二年，伐邓，灭之。
十三年，卒，子熊囏立，是为庄敖。
庄敖五年，欲杀其弟熊恽，恽奔随，与随袭弑庄敖代立，是为成王。
成王恽元年，初即位，布德施惠，结旧好于诸侯。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year of Fu Mao's reign, the state of Jin began to be in turmoil because of Quwo.
Fu Mao died in the seventeenth year of his reign.
Fu Mao's younger brother Xiong Tong killed Fu Mao's son and ascended the throne. This was King Wu of Chu.
In the seventeenth year of King Wu's reign, Prince Quwo of Jin State killed Jin Xiaohou, the king of the suzerain state.
In the nineteenth year, Zheng Bo's younger brother Duan provoked civil strife.
In the twenty-first year, Zheng Guo invaded the emperor's fields.
In the twenty-third year, the people of Wei killed their king Huan Gong.
In the twenty-ninth year, the people of Lu killed their king Yin Gong.
In the thirty-first year of the Song Dynasty, Hua Du, the governor of the Song Dynasty, killed his own monarch Shang Gong.
In the thirty-fifth year, the Chu State attacked Sui State.
Sui Guojun said: I have no sin.
The King of Chu said: I am in a barbarian area.
Today, all the princes have betrayed the royal family, invaded and killed each other.
I have an army and want to use it to participate in the political affairs of the Central Plains. I request the Zhou royal family to respect my name.
The people of Sui went to the Zhou royal family to ask for a title on his behalf, but the Zhou royal family refused, so the people of Sui came back and reported to Chu.
In the thirty-seventh year, Chu Xiongtong said angrily: My ancestor Wu Xiong was the teacher of King Wen, but it was a pity that he died early.
King Zhou Cheng promoted my late grandfather, but only gave him the land with the title of baron and let him live in the Chu region. Now the barbarian tribes are submissive, but King Zhou still does not grant him a title, so I have no choice but to claim my title!
So he called himself King Wu and made an alliance with the people of Sui before withdrawing his troops.
From then on, he began to cultivate Pu land and occupy it.
In the fifty-first year, the king of Zhou summoned Sui Hou and scolded him for supporting the king of Chu to become king.
King Wu of Chu was very angry and thought that Sui Hou had betrayed him, so he attacked Sui.
King Wu died of illness on the march, and Chu State stopped its march.
King Wu's son King Wen Xiong Yu came to the throne, and the Chu State began to move its capital to Ying.
In the second year of King Wen's reign, the state of Chu attacked the state of Shen and passed by Deng. Deng's people said: It is easy to capture the king of Chu at this moment.
Deng Hou did not agree. In the sixth year, the Chu State attacked the Cai State, captured Cai Aihou, returned to the country, and soon released him.
The State of Chu became powerful and bullied the small countries in the Yangtze and Han River basins. The small countries were all afraid of the State of Chu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate, and the state of Chu also began to become powerful.
In the twelfth year, the Chu State attacked the Deng State and destroyed the Deng State.
In the thirteenth year, King Wen passed away and his son Xiong Jin came to the throne. This is Zhuang Ao.
In the fifth year of Zhuang Ao's reign, he wanted to kill his younger brother Xiong Yun. Xiong Yun fled to Sui, attacked and killed Zhuang Ao with his followers, and became king.
In the first year of the reign of King Cheng Yun, as soon as he came to the throne, he extended kindness and morality to the people and restored the old friendly relations among the princes.

summary:
summary line 2: After several successions and internal conflicts, Xiong Tong killed his nephew and ascended the throne as King Wu of Chu. He declared himself king after the Zhou royal family refused to grant him a higher title, stating that his ancestor had served King Wen and that the Zhou had only given his family a baron's title in the Chu region. King Wu attacked Sui and died of illness during the campaign. His son King Wen Xiong Yu moved the capital to Ying. Under King Wen, Chu attacked Shen, Cai, and Deng, becoming powerful and intimidating smaller states in the region.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
使人献天子，天子赐胙，曰： 镇尔南方夷越之乱，无侵中国。
于是楚地千里。
十六年，齐桓公以兵侵楚，至陉山。
楚成王使将军屈完以兵御之，与桓公盟。
桓公数以周之赋不入王室，楚许之，乃去。
十八年，成王以兵北伐许，许君肉袒谢，乃释之。
二十二年，伐黄。
二十六年，灭英。
三十三年，宋襄公欲为盟会，召楚。
楚王怒曰： 召我，我将好往袭辱之。
遂行，至盂，遂执辱宋公，已而归之。
三十四年，郑文公南朝楚。
楚成王北伐宋，败之泓，射伤宋襄公，襄公遂病创死。
三十五年，晋公子重耳过楚，成王以诸侯客礼飨，而厚送之于秦。
三十九年，鲁僖公来请兵以伐齐，楚使申侯将兵伐齐，取榖，置齐桓公子雍焉。
齐桓公七子皆奔楚，楚尽以为上大夫。
灭夔，夔不祀祝融、鬻熊故也。
夏，伐宋，宋告急于晋，晋救宋，成王罢归。
将军子玉请战，成王曰： 重耳亡居外久，卒得反国，天之所开，不可当。
子玉固请，乃与之少师而去。
晋果败子玉于城濮。成王怒，诛子玉。
四十六年，初，成王将以商臣为太子，语令尹子上。
子上曰： 君之齿未也，而又多内宠，绌乃乱也。楚国之举常在少者。
且商臣蜂目而豺声，忍人也，不可立也。
王不听，立之。
后又欲立子职而绌太子商臣。
商臣闻而未审也，告其傅潘崇曰： 何以得其实？
崇曰： 飨王之宠姬江芈而勿敬也。
translation: 
He sent people to pay tribute to the emperor, and the emperor rewarded him with meat. Said: Take good care of the turmoil in the Yiyue region in your south, and do not invade the Central Plains.
So the Chu State expanded to a thousand miles in radius.
In the 16th year, Duke Huan of Qi sent troops to invade the state of Chu, all the way to Xingshan.
King Cheng of Chu asked General Qu Wan to lead his army to resist, and made an alliance with Duke Huan of Qi.
Duke Huan scolded King Chu Cheng for not paying tribute to the Zhou royal family. King Chu Cheng agreed and he withdrew his troops from Chu.
In the eighteenth year, King Cheng led his army to attack the state of Xu in the north. The king of Xu State took off his shirt and exposed his arms to plead guilty, and King Cheng of Chu released him.
In the twenty-second year, Chu State attacked Huang State.
In the twenty-sixth year, Chu State destroyed Britain.
In the thirty-third year, Duke Xianggong of the Song Dynasty wanted to form an alliance with the princes and summoned King Cheng of Chu to attend.
The King of Chu said angrily: "How dare you summon me? I will go with a friendly attitude, and then take the opportunity to attack and insult him."
So the King of Chu sent troops to Yu, arrested and humiliated Song Xianggong, and soon let him return to his country.
In the thirty-fourth year, Zheng Wengong went south to pay homage to the King of Chu.
King Chu Cheng went north to attack the Song Dynasty, defeated the Song army at Hongshui, and shot and wounded Song Xianggong. Xianggong died of the arrow wound soon after.
In the thirty-fifth year of the Jin Dynasty, Chong'er, the prince of Jin Dynasty, passed through the state of Chu. King Cheng entertained Chong'er according to the etiquette of entertaining guests from princes, gave Chong'er many gifts, and escorted him to the state of Qin.
In the 39th year, Duke Xi of Lu asked Chu State to send troops to attack Qi State. Chu State sent Marquis Shen to lead an army to attack Qi State, captured the valley, and settled Qi Huangong's son Yong in the valley.
The seven sons of Duke Huan of Qi all fled to the State of Chu, and all of them in the State of Chu worshiped them as senior officials.
The Chu State destroyed Kui because Kui did not sacrifice to Zhu Rong and Wan Xiong.
In the summer, Chu State attacked Song State. Song State asked Jin State for help. Jin State sent troops to rescue Song State. King Chu Cheng had to give up and return to Chu State.
General Ziyu asked to continue fighting, and King Cheng said: Chong'er has been on the run for many years and finally returned to Jin. God is blessing him and cannot stop him.
Ziyu resolutely asked for a battle, so King Chu Cheng left with only a small army.
As expected, Jin defeated Ziyu in Chengpu. King Chu Cheng was very angry and killed Ziyu.
In the forty-sixth year, at first, King Cheng planned to establish Shang Chen as the crown prince and told Ling Yin Zishang.
The Master said: Your Majesty is still young, and you have many lovely wives and concubines. If you establish the crown prince now, he may be deposed in the future, and the country will be in trouble. The crown prince of Chu State is often born to his young son.
Moreover, the merchant's eyes were like poisonous bees and his voice was like that of a jackal. He was an extremely cruel person and it was not suitable for him to be crown prince.
The King of Chu refused to listen and finally appointed Shang Chen.
Later, the King of Chu wanted to establish the position of son, and abandoned the prince and merchant.
Shang Chen heard some rumors but had not confirmed it, so he told his teacher Pan Chong: How can we get the real situation?
Pan Chong said: Treat Jiang Miji, whom King Cheng loves, but do not respect her.

summary:
summary line 3: King Cheng Xiong Yun extended kindness to the people and restored relations with other states. He expanded Chu's territory to a thousand miles in radius. When Duke Huan of Qi invaded Chu, King Cheng made an alliance with him. King Cheng later captured and humiliated Duke Xiang of Song, attacked Song, and entertained the Jin prince Chong'er. After Chong'er returned to Jin, Chu's general Ziyu was defeated at Chengpu, and King Cheng executed him. King Cheng initially established Shang Chen as crown prince despite warnings about his cruel nature. When King Cheng planned to replace him, Shang Chen surrounded the palace, and King Cheng hanged himself.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
商臣从之。
江芈怒曰： 宜乎王之欲杀若而立职也。
商臣告潘崇曰： 信矣。
崇曰： 能事之乎？
曰： 不能。
能亡去乎？
曰： 不能。
能行大事乎？ 曰： 能。
冬十月，商臣以宫卫兵围成王。成王请食熊蹯而死，不听。丁未，成王自绞杀。
商臣代立，是为穆王。
穆王立，以其太子宫予潘崇，使为太师，掌国事。
穆王三年，灭江。
四年，灭六、蓼。
六、蓼，皋陶之后。
八年，伐陈。
十二年，卒。
子庄王侣立。
庄王即位三年，不出号令，日夜为乐，令国中曰： 有敢谏者死无赦！
伍举入谏。
庄王左抱郑姬，右抱越女，坐钟鼓之间。
伍举曰： 愿有进隐。
曰： 有鸟在于阜，三年不蜚不鸣，是何鸟也？
庄王曰： 三年不蜚，蜚将冲天；三年不鸣，鸣将惊人。
举退矣，吾知之矣。
居数月，淫益甚。
大夫苏从乃入谏。
王曰： 若不闻令乎？
对曰： 杀身以明君，臣之愿也。
于是乃罢淫乐，听政，所诛者数百人，所进者数百人，任伍举、苏从以政，国人大说。
是岁灭庸。
六年，伐宋，获五百乘。
八年，伐陆浑戎，遂至洛，观兵于周郊。
周定王使王孙满劳楚王。
楚王问鼎小大轻重，对曰： 在德不在鼎。
庄王曰： 子无阻九鼎！
楚国折钩之喙，足以为九鼎。 王孙满曰： 呜呼！
君王其忘之乎？
昔虞夏之盛，远方皆至，贡金九牧，铸鼎象物，百物而为之备，使民知神奸。
桀有乱德，鼎迁于殷，载祀六百。
translation: 
The merchants followed his plan.
Jiang Mi said angrily: The king wants to kill you and make you the crown prince.
The merchant told Pan Chong: The king really wants to depose me and replace me with another official.
Pan Chong asked: Can you serve?
The merchant replied: No!
Can you escape from here?
The merchant replied: No.
Can you do what it takes to kill a king? The merchant replied: Yes.
In October of winter, the merchants asked the palace guards to surround King Cheng. King Cheng asked to eat bear paws before dying, but the merchants refused. On the day of Ding Wei, King Cheng hanged himself.
Shang Chen came to the throne, and this was King Mu.
After King Mu ascended the throne, he gave Pan Chong his royal palace and made him the grand master to preside over state affairs.
In the third year of King Mu, Chu State was destroyed by Jiang State.
In four years, the Chu State destroyed the Six Kingdoms and the Liao Kingdom.
6. The king of Liao is a descendant of Gaotao.
In the eighth year, Chu State attacked Chen State.
In the twelfth year, King Mu passed away.
His son Zhuang Wanglu came to the throne.
King Zhuang has been on the throne for three years. He has never issued any political orders to the country. He has had fun day and night. He also issued an edict to the country: Anyone who dares to remonstrate will be killed!
Wu Ju entered the palace to admonish him.
King Zhuang holds Zheng Ji in his left hand and Yue Nu in his right hand, sitting among the singers and dancers.
Wu Ju said: I hope to give you a hidden word.
Then he said: There was a bird that landed on the mountain. It did not fly or sing for three years. What kind of bird was it?
King Zhuang said: If you don't fly for three years, you will soar into the sky; if you don't sing for three years, you will become a blockbuster.
Go down, I know what you mean.
After a few months, King Zhuang became even more lewd and indulgent.
Su Cong, the doctor, went to the palace to give advice.
King Zhuang of Chu said: Didn't you hear my edict?
Su Cong replied: It is my long-cherished wish to sacrifice myself to make you wise.
The king of Chu then stopped his lewdness and pleasure and began to handle government affairs. He killed hundreds of criminals, promoted hundreds of meritorious ministers, and appointed Wu Ju and Su Cong to manage government affairs, which was supported by the whole country.
At that time, the state of Chu was destroyed.
In six years, Chu State attacked Song State and obtained 500 chariots.
In the eighth year, the Chu State attacked Lu Hunrong and arrived at Luo, where they held a military parade on the outskirts of the Zhou capital.
King Zhou Ding sent Wang Sunman to reward King Chu.
The King of Chu asked Wang Sunman about the size of the tripod. Wang Sunman replied: Ruling a country depends on whether the government is virtuous, not on the size of the tripod.
King Zhuang said: Don't rely on owning Jiuding!
The state of Chu only had to destroy the tip of the sword to make the Jiuding. Wang Sunman said: Hey!
Has the king forgotten this?
In the past, when the Yu and Xia Dynasties were prosperous, all the remote countries came to pay tribute, and asked the chiefs of Kyushu to pay tribute to the metal and cast it into a Jiuding. Many mountains and rivers were painted on it, and all kinds of weird things were there, so that the people could know the harm done by the weird things.
Jie's morals deteriorated, so Ding was moved to the Yin Dynasty, which lasted for six hundred years.

summary:
summary line 4: King Mu Shang Chen ascended and destroyed several states. His son King Zhuang Lu initially indulged in pleasure but reformed after remonstrance from Wu Ju and Su Cong. King Zhuang attacked Lu Hunrong, paraded troops near the Zhou capital, and asked about the Nine Tripods. Wang Sunman replied that ruling depends on virtue, not tripods, and that the Zhou dynasty's mandate was difficult to change. King Zhuang withdrew. He later attacked Chen, captured it, but restored it after Shen Shu's advice. He besieged Zheng, accepted its surrender, and defeated Jin at the Yellow River. He besieged Song for five months until its people resorted to cannibalism, then withdrew.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
灵王闻太子禄之死也，自投车下，而曰： 人之爱子亦如是乎？
侍者曰： 甚是。
王曰： 余杀人之子多矣，能无及此乎？
右尹曰： 请待于郊以听国人。
王曰： 众怒不可犯。
曰： 且入大县而乞师于诸侯。
王曰： 皆叛矣。
又曰： 且奔诸侯以听大国之虑。
王曰： 大福不再，祗取辱耳。
于是王乘舟将欲入鄢。
右尹度王不用其计，惧俱死，亦去王亡。灵王于是独傍徨山中，野人莫敢入王。
王行遇其故鋗人，谓曰： 为我求食，我已不食三日矣。
鋗人曰： 新王下法，有敢饷王从王者，罪及三族，且又无所得食。
王因枕其股而卧。
鋗人又以土自代，逃去。
王觉而弗见，遂饥弗能起。
芋尹申无宇之子申亥曰： 吾父再犯王命，王弗诛，恩孰大焉！
乃求王，遇王饥于厘泽，奉之以归。
夏五月癸丑，王死申亥家，申亥以二女从死，并葬之。
是时楚国虽已立比为王，畏灵王复来，又不闻灵王死，故观从谓初王比曰： 不杀弃疾，虽得国犹受祸。
王曰： 余不忍。
从曰： 人将忍王。
王不听，乃去。
弃疾归。国人每夜惊，曰： 灵王入矣！
乙卯夜，弃疾使船人从江上走呼曰： 灵王至矣！
国人愈惊。
又使曼成然告初王比及令尹子皙曰： 王至矣！
国人将杀君，司马将至矣！
君蚤自图，无取辱焉。
众怒如水火，不可救也。
初王及子皙遂自杀。
丙辰，弃疾即位为王，改名熊居，是为平王。
平王以诈弑两王而自立，恐国人及诸侯叛之，乃施惠百姓。
translation: 
When King Ling heard the news that Prince Lu had been killed, he lost his mind and fell under the car, saying: Do people love their sons as much as I do?
The waiter said: Even more than you.
The Spiritual King said: I have killed too many other people's sons, how can I avoid falling into this situation?
You Yin said: Please go to the outskirts of the capital and obey the people's decision.
The Spiritual King said: Don’t offend everyone’s anger.
You Yin said: "Let's take shelter in a big county for now, and then ask for troops from the princes."
King Ling said: All the princes have betrayed me.
You Yin then said: For the time being, we should flee to the vassal states to listen to the opinions of the great kings.
The Spiritual King said: Great blessing cannot come again, it is just an insult to oneself.
So King Ling wanted to enter Yan City by boat.
You Yin estimated that King Ling would never listen to his advice, and feared that he would be killed together with King Ling, so he left King Ling and ran away. The Spirit King then wandered alone in the mountains, and no villagers dared to take him in.
On the way, King Ling met Juan Ren who had been in the palace and said to him: "Please find something to eat for me. I have been hungry for three days."
Juan said: The new king has just issued an edict to kill any of the three tribes who dare to give you food and flee with you, not to mention there is no food to be found here.
The Ling King then fell asleep with his head on his lap.
Juanren replaced it with a clod of earth, pulled out his legs and ran away.
After King Ling woke up, he could not find Juan Ren. He was so hungry that he could not sit up.
Shen Hai, the son of Shen Wuyu, the local magistrate of Tudi, said: My father violated the king's law twice, but King Ling pardoned him both times. There is no greater kindness than this!
So he searched everywhere for the Spirit King, and finally found the hungry and fainting Spirit King in Lize, and served the Spirit King all the way to his own home.
On the day of Guichou in the fifth month of summer, King Ling passed away at Shen Hai's house. Shen Hai had two women buried in sacrifice and buried King Ling.
At this time, although the Chu State had already elected Prince Bi as King of Chu, it was afraid that King Ling would return again and had not heard the news of King Ling's death. Therefore, Guan Cong said to the new prince Bi: If you don't kill Qiji, even if you own the entire country, you will still suffer disaster.
The king of Chu said: I can't bear to kill him.
Guan Cong said: Others can't bear to kill you.
The new king did not obey, so Guan Cong left.
After Qi Ji returned to the capital, the people in the capital were frightened every night, saying: King Ling has entered the city.
On the night of Yimao day, Qiji asked the boatmen to run along the bank of the Yangtze River and shout: "The King of Spirits is coming!"
People in the capital were even more frightened.
Qiji then asked Man Chengran to tell the new prince Bi and his ling Yin Zixi: King Ling is here!
The people in the capital will kill you, Sima is coming!
You should think of a solution as soon as possible and don't insult yourself.
The anger of the people is like floods and fires, which cannot be saved.
The new king and Zixi committed suicide.
On Bingchen day, Qiji ascended the throne and became the king of Chu, and changed his name to Xiong Ju. He was the king of Ping.
King Ping used deception to kill two kings and ascended the throne. He was afraid that the people in the capital and the princes would betray him, so he extended favors to the people.

summary:
summary line 5: King Gong Shen was defeated by Jin at Yanling and shot in the eye. After several successions, King Ling Xiong Wei gathered the princes, built Zhanghua Terrace, and asked about obtaining the Zhou tripod. He became arrogant but faced rebellion when his brother Qiji conspired with Guan Cong. King Ling's soldiers abandoned him, and he died of starvation at Shen Hai's house. Qiji ascended as King Ping, who deceived and killed two kings to gain the throne. He extended favors to the people, returned territories, and improved governance.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
对曰： 齐桓，卫姬之子也，有宠于厘公。
有鲍叔牙、宾须无、隰朋以为辅，有莒、卫以为外主，有高、国以为内主。
从善如流，施惠不倦。
有国，不亦宜乎？
昔我文公，狐季姬之子也，有宠于献公。好学不倦。
生十七年，有士五人，有先大夫子余、子犯以为腹心，有魏犨、贾佗以为股肱，有齐、宋、秦、楚以为外主，有栾、郄、狐、先以为内主。
亡十九年，守志弥笃。
惠、怀弃民，民从而与之。故文公有国，不亦宜乎？
子比无施于民，无援于外，去晋，晋不送；归楚，楚不迎。
何以有国！
子比果不终焉，卒立者弃疾，如叔向言也。
平王二年，使费无忌如秦为太子建取妇。
妇好，来，未至，无忌先归，说平王曰： 秦女好，可自娶，为太子更求。
平王听之，卒自娶秦女，生熊珍。
更为太子娶。
是时伍奢为太子太傅，无忌为少傅。
无忌无宠于太子，常谗恶太子建。
建时年十五矣，其母蔡女也，无宠于王，王稍益疏外建也。
六年，使太子建居城父，守边。
无忌又日夜谗太子建于王曰： 自无忌入秦女，太子怨，亦不能无望于王，王少自备焉。
且太子居城父，擅兵，外交诸侯，且欲入矣。
平王召其傅伍奢责之。
伍奢知无忌谗，乃曰： 王奈何以小臣疏骨肉？
无忌曰： 今不制，后悔也。
于是王遂囚伍奢。
乃令司马奋扬召太子建，欲诛之。
太子闻之，亡奔宋。
无忌曰： 伍奢有二子，不杀者为楚国患。
盍以免其父召之，必至。
于是王使使谓奢： 能致二子则生，不能将死。
translation: 
Shuxiang replied: Duke Huan of Qi is the son of Wei Ji, and he is favored by Duke Li.
There are Bao Shuya, Bin Xuwu, and Xi Peng as assistants, Ju and Wei as external aid, and Gao and Guo as internal support.
He listens to correct opinions like running water and is tireless in giving kindness to the people.
He enjoys the throne, doesn’t he deserve it?
In the past, our Duke Wen was the son of Hu Jiji and was favored by Duke Xian. He is eager to learn.
At the age of only seventeen, he made friends with five talented people, including the former great masters Ziquan and Zifu as his confidants, Wei Ji and Jia Tuo as his right-hand men, Qi, Song, Qin and Chu as foreign aids, and Luan, Que, Hu and Xian as internal responders.
Duke Wen had been on the run for nineteen years, and his ambition to return was very firm.
Because Hui Gong and Huai Gong lost the support of the people, the people all followed each other and turned to Wen Gong. In this way, shouldn't it be appropriate for Wen Gong to enjoy the country?
Zibi had nothing to give to the people, and he received no foreign aid. When he left Jin, the Jin people did not escort him; when he returned to Chu, the Chu people did not welcome him.
Why do you enjoy the country?
As expected, Zibi's reign as king did not last long, and it was Qiji who finally ascended the throne, just as Shu Xiang predicted.
In the second year of King Ping's reign, Fei Wuji was sent to the State of Qin to marry Prince Jian.
This woman was extremely beautiful. Before she could reach the capital of Chu, Wuji hurried back and encouraged King Ping: "The woman of Qin is as beautiful as the king. You can stay here and find another one for the prince."
King Ping listened to Wuji's persuasion and finally married Qin's daughter and gave birth to Xiong Zhen.
He married another woman for the prince.
At that time, Wu She was the prince's tutor and Wuji was the young tutor.
Wuji was not favored by the prince and often slandered and slandered the prince Jian.
Prince Jian was fifteen years old at the time. His mother was a woman from Cai State, and was not favored by King Ping. King Ping gradually became more distant from Prince Jian.
In the sixth year, King Ping asked the prince to live with his father in the city and guard the border.
Wuji again slandered Prince Jian in front of King Ping day and night, saying: Ever since I sent the Qin women to your harem, the Prince has resented me very much, and it is impossible not to have resentment towards you. You should also be careful.
Moreover, the prince lives in the city father, monopolizes military power, makes friends with foreign princes, and always wants to invade the capital.
King Ping called Tai Fu Wu She to scold him.
Wu She knew that this was the result of Wuji's rumors, so he said: Your Majesty, why have you alienated your own flesh and blood because of a villain?
Wuji said to King Ping: If you don't punish Wu She today, you will regret it in the future.
So King Ping imprisoned Wu She.
Let Sima Fenyang summon Prince Jian back and want to kill the Prince.
The prince heard the news and fled to Song Dynasty.
Fei Wuji said: Wu She has two sons. If they are not killed, they will become a disaster to the Chu State.
Why not summon them on the condition of exempting their father from the death penalty, so that they will definitely return to Chu.
So King Ping sent an envoy to Wu She and said: If you can recall your two sons, you can live, otherwise you will be executed.

summary:
summary line 6: King Ping listened to Fei Wuji's slander against Prince Jian, imprisoned Wu She, and forced Prince Jian to flee. Wu She's son Wu Zixu escaped to Wu. King Ping married the woman intended for Prince Jian and fathered Xiong Zhen, who became King Zhao. Fei Wuji's slander caused Prince Jian's exile and Wu She's execution. King Zhao fled when Wu invaded, and Wu Zixu desecrated King Ping's tomb. King Zhao eventually returned with Qin's help.

Chunk 21: 
original: 
裂楚之地，足以肥国；诎楚之名，足以尊主。
今子将以欲诛残天下之共主，居三代之传器，吞三翮六翼，以高世主，非贪而何？
《周书》曰 欲起无先 ，故器南则兵至矣。
于是楚计辍不行。
十九年，秦伐楚，楚军败，割上庸、汉北地予秦。
二十年，秦将白起拔我西陵。
二十一年，秦将白起遂拔我郢，烧先王墓夷陵。
楚襄王兵散，遂不复战，东北保于陈城。
二十二年，秦复拔我巫、黔中郡。
二十三年，襄王乃收东地兵，得十余万，复西取秦所拔我江旁十五邑以为郡，距秦。
二十七年，使三万人助三晋伐燕。
复与秦平，而入太子为质于秦。
楚使左徒侍太子于秦。
三十六年，顷襄王病，太子亡归。秋，顷襄王卒，太子熊元代立，是为考烈王。
考烈王以左徒为令尹，封以吴，号春申君。
考烈王元年，纳州于秦以平。
是时楚益弱。
六年，秦围邯郸，赵告急楚，楚遣将军景阳救赵。
七年，至新中。
秦兵去。
十二年，秦昭王卒，楚王使春申君吊祠于秦。
十六年，秦庄襄王卒，秦王赵政立。
二十二年，与诸侯共伐秦，不利而去。
楚东徙都寿春，命曰郢。
二十五年，考烈王卒，子幽王悍立。
李园杀春申君。
幽王三年，秦、魏伐楚。
秦相吕不韦卒。
九年，秦灭韩。
十年，幽王卒，同母弟犹代立，是为哀王。
哀王立二月余，哀王庶兄负刍之徒袭杀哀王而立负刍为王。
是岁，秦虏赵王迁。
王负刍元年，燕太子丹使荆轲刺秦王。
二年，秦使将军伐楚，大破楚军，亡十余城。
三年，秦灭魏。
四年，秦将王翦破我军于蕲，而杀将军项燕。
五年，秦将王翦、蒙武遂破楚国，虏楚王负刍，灭楚名为郡云。
太史公曰：楚灵王方会诸侯于申、诛齐庆封、作章华台、求周九鼎之时，志小天下；及饿死于申亥之家，为天下笑。
translation: 
Possessing the land of Chu is enough to make the country strong; condemning the reputation of Chu is enough to make the monarch noble.
Today, you are going to kill the king respected by all the princes in the world, take possession of the treasures passed down from three generations, swallow up the nine tripods, and look down upon all the kings. Isn't this greed?
"Book of Zhou" says that if you want to get started in politics, you should not initiate chaos first. Therefore, if the sacrificial vessels were moved south to the Chu State, large armies would follow.
So Chu State gave up its original plan.
In the 19th year, Qin attacked Chu. The Chu army was defeated and ceded Shangyong and Hanbei to Qin.
Twenty years later, Bai Qi, the general of Qin State, captured Xiling of Chu State.
In the 21st year, Bai Qi, the general of Qin State, captured Ying of Chu State and burned Yiling, the tomb of the late king.
King Chu Xiang's army was defeated and could no longer fight, so he retreated to the northeast and defended Chencheng.
In the 22nd year, Qin State captured Wu County and Qianzhong County of Chu State.
In the twenty-third year, King Xiang gathered the soldiers from the east, a total of more than 100,000 people, and went west to capture the fifteen cities on the Yangtze River that Qin had captured, and divided them into counties to resist Qin.
In the twenty-seventh year, Chu sent 30,000 men to help the Three Jins attack Yan.
Chu made peace with Qin again and asked the prince to serve as a hostage in Qin.
The state of Chu asked Zuo Tu to serve the prince in the state of Qin.
In the thirty-sixth year, King Qingxiang fell ill, and the prince fled back to Chu. In autumn, King Qingxiang died, and prince Xiong Yuan came to the throne. This was King Kaolie.
King Kaolie appointed Zuo Tu as his Ling Yin and granted him the title of Lord Chunshen of Wu.
In the first year of King Kaolie's reign, he gave the state to Qin in order to make peace with Qin.
At this time, the state of Chu was getting weaker and weaker.
In the sixth year, the State of Qin surrounded Handan. The State of Zhao asked the State of Chu for help. The State of Chu sent the late general Jingyang to rescue the State of Zhao.
In seven years, Chu State invaded Xinzhong.
The Qin army left.
In the twelfth year, King Zhao of Qin passed away, and the King of Chu asked Chun Shenjun to come to Qin to express his condolences.
In the 16th year, King Zhuangxiang of Qin passed away, and King Zhao Zheng of Qin came to the throne.
In the twenty-second year, the Chu State and the vassal states jointly attacked the Qin State, failed in the battle and withdrew their troops.
The Chu State moved its capital eastward to Shouchun, which was called Ying.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Kaolie passed away, and his son You Wanghan came to the throne.
Li Yuan killed Chun Shenjun.
In the third year of King You, Qin and Wei attacked Chu.
Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin, passed away.
In the ninth year, Qin destroyed South Korea.
In the tenth year, King You passed away, and his younger half-brother, You, came to the throne. This was King Ai.
More than two months after King Ai came to the throne, the gangsters of King Ai's brother, Fu Chu, attacked and killed King Ai, and made Fu Chu king of Chu.
At that time, Qin captured Zhao Wangqian.
In the first year of Wang Fuchu's reign, Prince Dan of Yan sent Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin.
In the second year, Qin sent generals to attack Chu, defeated the Chu army and captured more than ten cities.
In three years, Qin State destroyed Wei State.
In the fourth year, the Qin general Wang Jian defeated the Chu army in Qi and killed the general Xiang Yan.
In the fifth year, the Qin generals Wang Jian and Meng Wu invaded the capital of Chu, captured the Chu king Fu Chu, destroyed the Chu state, and established three counties in Chu.
Tai Shigong said: When King Ling of Chu gathered the princes in Shen, killed Qi Qingfeng, built Zhanghua Terrace, and asked for the nine tripods of the Zhou royal family, he had lofty ambitions and looked down on the world. When he died of starvation at Shenhai's house, he was ridiculed by the people of the world.

summary:
summary line 7: King Hui was kidnapped by Bai Gongsheng but rescued by Ye Gong. After several more successions, King Huai was deceived by Zhang Yi into breaking relations with Qi, then attacked Qin and was defeated. He was later tricked into meeting King Zhao of Qin, who detained him. King Huai died in Qin, causing Chu to break relations with Qin. King Qingxiang moved the capital eastward as Qin captured Chu territories. The Chu state continued to weaken, eventually moving its capital to Shouchun. Qin generals Wang Jian and Meng Wu captured the Chu king, destroyed the state, and established three commanderies in Chu territory.

