Chunk 0: 
original: 
《夏书》：禹堙洪水十三年，过家不入门。
陆行载车，水行乘舟，泥行乘毳，山行则梮，以别九州；随山浚川，任土作贡；通九道，陂九泽，度九山。
然河灾之羡溢，害中国也尤甚。
唯是为务，故道河自积石，历龙门，南到华阴，东下底柱，及盟津、雒内，至于大伾。
于是禹以为河所从来者高，水湍悍，难以行平地，数为败，乃酾二渠以引其河，北载之高地，过洚水，至于大陆，播为九河。同为迎河，入于勃海。
九川既疏，九泽既陂，诸夏乂安，功施乎三代。
自是之后，荥阳下引河东南为鸿沟，以通宋、郑、陈、蔡曹、卫，与济、汝、淮、泗会。
于楚，西方则通渠汉川、云梦之际，东方则通沟江、淮之间。
于吴，则通渠三江、五湖。
于齐，则通淄、济之间。
于蜀，则蜀守李冰凿离堆，避沫水之害，穿二江成都中。
此渠皆可行舟，有余则用溉，百姓飨其利。
至于它，往往引其水，用溉田，沟渠甚多，然莫足数也。
魏文侯时，西门豹为邺令，有令名。
至文侯曾孙襄王时，与群臣饮酒，王为群臣祝曰： 令吾臣皆如西门豹之为人臣也！
史起进曰： 魏氏之行田也以百亩，邺独二百亩，是田恶也。
漳水在其旁，西门豹不知用，是不智也。
知而不兴，是不仁也。
仁智豹未之尽，何足法也！
于是以史起为邺令，遂引漳水溉邺，以富魏之河内。
民歌之曰： 邺有贤令兮为史公，决漳水兮灌邺旁，终古舄卤兮生稻梁 。
其后韩闻秦之好兴事，欲罢之，无令东伐。
及使水工郑国间说秦，令凿泾水，自中山西邸瓠口为渠，并北山，东注洛，三百余里，欲以溉田。
translation: 
"Book of Xia" records: Yu spent thirteen years controlling the floods, and did not enter his house when he passed by.
He traveled by car when traveling by land, by boat when traveling by water, by boat when traveling on dirt roads, and by mountaineering sedans when traveling on mountain roads to divide the boundaries of Kyushu. He dredged rivers according to the trend of the mountains and determined tax levels according to the land conditions; he built roads in Kyushu, built embankments of lakes in Kyushu, and measured the mountains of Kyushu.
However, the Yellow River overflowed and caused great harm to the Central Plains.
He regarded the management of the Yellow River as his top priority, so he guided the Yellow River water from Jishi Mountain, through Longmen, south to Huayin County, eastward through Dizhu Mountain and the bends of Mengjin and Luoshui Rivers, to Daren Mountain.
So Dayu believed that the source of the Yellow River was high and the current was turbulent, making it difficult to circulate on flat land. After several diversion attempts failed, he divided the Yellow River into two rivers to reduce the water potential.
The rivers in Kyushu have been dredged, the lakes in Kyushu have been embanked, and the various countries in China have been managed and stabilized. Their achievements have benefited the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
From then on, the water of the Yellow River was diverted from Rongyang to the southeast, forming a gap that connected the countries of Song, Zheng, Chen, Cai, Cao, and Wei, and intersected with Jishui, Rushui, Huaishui, and Swimming rivers respectively.
In the Chu region, ditches were built to connect Moshui and Yunmeng in the west, and ditches were dug to connect the Yangtze River and Huaishui in Shumian.
In Wudi, canals were opened to connect the three rivers and five lakes.
At Qidi, it connects Zi River and Jishui River.
In Shu, Li Bing, the governor of Shu, dug two rivers in Chengdu to avoid the harm of Moshui.
These canals can be used for boats, and the excess water is used for irrigation, and the people enjoy its benefits.
As for the areas where canal water passes, people often drink water to irrigate their fields. There are quite a few ditches, but they are countless.
During the reign of Wei Wenhou, Ximen Bao was the magistrate of Ye County and had a good reputation.
When King Xiang, the great grandson of Marquis Wen, was drinking with his ministers, King Xiang toasted the ministers and said: I hope all my ministers will be ministers like Ximen Bao!
Shi Qi remonstrated: "Wei's practice is to allow one man to have one hundred acres of land. Ye County alone has two hundred acres. The land here is not good."
Zhangshui is next to it, and Ximen Leopard does not know how to use it. This is not smart.
Not doing it after knowing it is unkind.
Neither benevolence nor wisdom has been achieved, so how can we imitate them?
So he appointed Shi Qi as the magistrate of Ye County, and diverted water from Zhangzhou to irrigate Ye County, making the Hanoi area of ​​Wei rich.
The people praised him and said: There is a wise magistrate in Ye County, Shi Gong, who opened the Zhang River to irrigate the areas around Ye County, so that rice can grow on the salty land since ancient times.
After that, Han heard that Qin liked to build things, so he planned to tire Qin so that it would not be able to send troops to the east.
So South Korea sent hydraulic engineer Zheng Guo to secretly lobby the Qin State, asking it to drill through the Jingshui River, build a canal from the west of Zhongshan to Hukou, follow the Beishan Mountain, and flow eastward into the Luoshui River. The total length is more than 300 miles, and it is intended to be used to irrigate farmland.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
中作而觉，秦欲杀郑国。
郑国曰： 始臣为间，然渠成亦秦之利也。
臣为韩延数岁之命，而为秦建万世之功。
秦以为然，卒使就渠。
渠成而用注填阏之水，溉舄卤之地四万余顷，收皆亩一钟。
于是关中为沃野，无凶年，秦以富强，卒并诸侯，因名曰郑国渠。
汉兴三十有九年，孝文时河决酸枣，东溃金堤，于是东郡大兴卒塞之。
其后三十六岁，孝武元光中，河决于瓠子，东南注巨野，通于淮、泗。
上使汲黯、郑当时兴人徒塞之，辄复坏。
是时，武安侯田蚡为丞相，其奉邑食鄃。
鄃居河北，河决而南则鄃无水灾。邑收入多。
蚡言于上曰： 江、河之决皆天事，未易以人力强塞，强塞之未必应天。
而望气用数者亦以为然，是以久不复塞也。
时郑当时为大司农，言： 异时关东漕粟从渭上，度六月罢，而渭水道九百余里，时有难处。
引渭穿渠起长安，旁南山下，至河三百余里，径，易漕，度可令三月罢；而渠下民田万余顷又可得以溉。
此损漕省卒，而益肥关中之地，得谷。
上以为然，令齐人水工徐伯表，发卒数万人穿漕渠，三岁而通。
以漕，大便利。
其后漕稍多，而渠下之民颇得以溉矣。
后河东守番系言： 漕从山东西，岁百余万右，更底柱之艰，败亡甚多而烦费。
穿渠引汾溉皮氏、汾阴下，引河溉汾阴、蒲坂下，度可得五千顷。
故尽河堧弃地，民茭牧其中耳，今溉田之，度可得谷二百万右石以上。
translation: 
The matter was discovered during the process, and Qin Guo planned to kill Zheng Guo.
Zheng Guo said: In the beginning, the minister was a spy, but after it was completed, it was also in the interests of Qin.
I extended the fate of South Korea for a few years, but made achievements for Qin that lasted forever.
The State of Qin also thought this was the case, and finally ordered him to continue building the canal.
After the canal was built, the silted and turbid water was used to irrigate more than 40,000 hectares of salty land, so that the harvest reached one minute per mu.
As a result, the Guanzhong area became a fertile land with no disasters. As a result, the Qin State became rich and powerful, and finally annexed the princes, so the canal was named Zheng Guo Canal.
Thirty-nine years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Yellow River burst its banks at Suizao and the Jin Dynasty in the east collapsed. So Dongjun mobilized soldiers to block the Yellow River.
Thirty-six years later, during the Yuanguang period of Emperor Xiaowu, the Yellow River broke through Guzi and flowed southeast into Juyeze, and then to the Huai River and the Swimming River.
The emperor sent Ji An and Zheng to mobilize personnel to block the breach, but it soon collapsed again.
At this time, Marquis Tian Ju of Wuzhou was the prime minister, and his town was in Lang County.
If Hexian County is north of the Yellow River, and the Yellow River flows to the south, then there will be no floods in Hexian County, and the income of Yixian County will increase.
Tian Gecko said to the emperor: The bursting of the banks of the Yangtze River and the Yellow River is God's will. It is not suitable to use human power to forcefully block the breaches. Forcibly blocking the breaches may not be in accordance with God's will.
And people who looked up at the clouds and used magic to divine fortune also thought so, so it was no longer blocked for a long time.
Zheng Zheng, who was the chief agricultural officer at the time, said that in the past, it took about six months to transport corn from the Wei River to Guandong. However, the Wei River is more than 900 miles long and there are often dangerous places.
A canal was opened from Chang'an to divert the Wei River, flowing downstream along the Nanshan Mountains. It is more than 300 miles away from the Yellow River. It is a straight road and is easy to navigate by boat. It is estimated that it will take three months; and more than 10,000 hectares of farmland that the canal water passes through can be irrigated.
This can not only reduce water transportation time and soldiers, but also make Guanzhong's farmland more fertile and obtain more food.
The emperor thought it was right, so he sent Uncle Xu, a water engineer from the state of Qi, to make a mark, and sent tens of thousands of soldiers to dig canals and canals, and they were completed in three years.
It is indeed very convenient for water transportation.
After that, water transportation gradually increased, and the people around the canal were able to benefit from irrigated fields.
Later, Fan Xi, the governor of Hedong, said: The cost of transporting grain and rice from Shandong to the west is more than one million dan per year. After going through the hardships in the Dizhu area, the damage was huge and the cost was huge.
By opening canals to divert Fen water to irrigate Pishi and Fenyin areas, and to divert Yellow River water to Fenyin and Puban areas, it is estimated that 5,000 hectares of farmland can be created.
Because this is all abandoned wasteland by the Yellow River. People graze here and now irrigate and cultivate it. It is estimated that they can get more than two million shi of grain.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
谷从渭上，与关中无异，而底柱之东可毋复漕。
上以为然，发卒数万人作渠田。
数岁，河移徙，渠不利，田者不能偿种。
久之，河东渠田废，予越人，令少府以为稍入。
其后人有上书，欲通褒斜道及漕，事下御史大夫张汤。
汤问之，言： 抵蜀从故道，故道多阪，回远。
今穿褒斜道，少阪，近四百里；而褒水通沔，斜水通渭，皆可以行船漕。
漕从南阳上沔入褒，褒绝水至斜，间百余里，以车转，从斜下渭。
如此，汉中谷可致，而山东从沔无限，便于底柱之漕。
且褒斜材木竹箭之饶，似于巴、蜀。
上以为然。
拜汤子卬为汉中守，发数万人作褒斜道五百余里。
道果便近，而水多湍石，不可漕。
其后，严熊言： 临晋民愿穿洛以溉重泉以东万余顷故恶地。
诚即得水，可令亩十石。
于是为发卒万人穿渠，自徵引洛水至商颜下。
岸善崩，乃凿井，深者四十余丈。
往往为井，井下相通行水。
水隤以绝商颜，东至山领十余里间。
井渠之生自此始。
穿得龙骨，故名曰龙首渠。
作之十余岁，渠颇通，犹未得其饶。
自河决瓠子后二十余岁，岁因以数不登，而梁楚之地尤甚。
上既封禅，巡祭山川，其明年，干封少雨。
上乃使汲仁、郭昌发卒数万人塞瓠子决河。
于是上以用事万里沙，则还自临决河，湛白马玉璧，令群臣从官自将军以下皆负薪寘决河。
是时，东郡烧草，以故薪柴少，而下淇园之竹以为揵。
上既临河决，悼功之不成，乃作歌曰：
translation: 
These grains transported by water from the Wei River are no different from those harvested in Guanzhong, and the bottom pillars are bundled so that they can no longer be transported by water.
The emperor thought he was right, so he sent tens of thousands of soldiers to dig canals to irrigate the fields.
After a few years, the Yellow River changed its course, and the canals were no longer useful. The harvests of farmers were not enough to compensate for the grain.
Over time, all the irrigation canal and cultivated land in the east of the river were abandoned. They were given to the Yue people and the young government was ordered to earn a little rent.
After this, someone wrote a letter and planned to clear the Baoxie Road and water transportation. The emperor handed over the incident to Zhang Tang, the imperial censor.
After Zhang Tang inquired about this matter, he said that when entering Shu County from the old road, the old road had many slopes and was winding and far away.
Now the Baoxie Road has been dug with fewer slopes and is 400 miles shorter than the original distance. The Baoxue River is connected with the Mian River, and the Xie River is connected with the Wei River, so both can be transported by boat and water.
The water transport ships went up from Nanyang along the Mian River to Baoshui River. From Baoshui Landing to Xieshui River, they were transported by dry road for more than 100 miles. They were transported by vehicles and traveled under Xieshui River into Wei River.
In this way, food from the desert can be obtained. There is no restriction on food from Shandong passing through Mianshui River, which is more convenient than water transportation through the bottom pillar.
Moreover, Baoshui and Xieshui are rich in timber, bamboo and arrows, which are comparable to Bashu.
The emperor thinks it makes sense.
Zhang Tang's son Zhang Yin was made the prefect of Hanzhong and sent tens of thousands of people to dig more than 500 miles of ramps.
The road is indeed convenient and short, but the water is fast and rocky and cannot be transported by boat or water.
After that, Yan Xiong said that the people of Linjin hoped to drill through the Luoshui River to irrigate the more than 10,000 hectares of old salty land east of Chongquan.
If water can be obtained for irrigation, the yield per mu can reach ten shi.
So he dispatched 10,000 soldiers to dig canals and divert the Luoshui River from the acquired land to the foot of Yan Mountain.
The banks of the Luoshui River were prone to landslides, so wells were dug along the river, the deepest of which was more than 40 feet deep.
Wells were dug in many places, and the wells were connected to each other to allow water to pass through.
The water passes through Shangyan Mountain from underground and flows into the mountains for more than ten miles.
The birth of Jingqu started from this time.
The keel was obtained when the canal was dug, so the canal was called Longshou Canal.
This canal has been built for more than ten years, and water has been opened in many places, but it has still not benefited much.
For more than 20 years since the Yellow River burst in the Huzi area, the annual harvest has been bad due to this, especially in the Liang and Chu areas.
After the emperor enshrined Zen, he visited and offered sacrifices to the mountain! The next year there was drought and little rain.
The emperor sent Ji Ren and Guo Chang to mobilize tens of thousands of troops to block the breach of the Yellow River in the Huzi area.
After the construction, the emperor went to Wanlisha to perform sacrifices. On his way back, he went to the breach of the Yellow River in person, sank the white horse jade into the river, and ordered all the ministers from the palace to the general to carry firewood on their backs to fill the breach.
At that time, people in Dongjun burned grass and had little firewood, so they used bamboo from the Qiyuan area as a tree.
Now that the emperor had personally visited the breach of the Yellow River, he was saddened by his failure to block the river, so he composed a song:


Chunk 3: 
original: 
瓠子决兮将奈何？
浩浩洋洋，虑殚为河。
殚为河兮地不得宁，功无已时兮吾山平。
吾山平兮巨野溢，鱼弗郁兮柏冬日。
正道弛兮离常流，蛟龙骋兮放远游。
归旧川兮神哉沛，不封禅兮安知外！
皇谓河公兮何不仁，泛滥不止兮愁吾人！
啮桑浮兮淮、泗满，久不反兮水维缓。
一曰：
河汤汤兮激潺湲，北渡回兮迅流难。
搴长蒋兮湛美玉，河公许兮薪不属。
薪不属兮卫人罪，烧萧条兮噫乎何以御水！隤林竹兮揵石菑，宣防塞兮万福来。
于是卒塞瓠子，筑宫其上，名曰宣防。
而道河北行二渠，复禹旧迹，而梁、楚之地复宁，无水灾。
自是之后，用事者争言水利。
朔方、西河、河西、酒泉皆引河及川谷以溉田。
而关中灵轵、成国、湋渠引诸川，汝南、九江引淮，东海引巨定，泰山下引汶水，皆穿渠为溉田，各万余顷。
它小渠及陂山通道者，不可胜言也。
自郑国渠起，至元鼎六年，百三十六岁，而儿宽为左内史，奏请穿凿六辅渠，以益溉郑国傍高卬之田。
上曰： 农，天下之本也。
泉流灌浸，所以育五谷也。
左、右内史地，名山川原甚众，细民未知其利，故为通沟渎，畜陂泽，所以备旱也。
今内史稻田租挈重，不与郡同，其议减。
令吏民勉农，尽地利，平繇行水，勿使失时。
后十六岁，太始二年，赵中大夫白公复奏穿渠。
引泾水，首起谷口，尾入栎阳，注渭中，袤二百里，溉田四千五百余顷，因名曰白渠。
民得其饶，歌之曰： 田于何所？
池阳、谷口。
translation: 
What can I do about the Huzi River Judgment?
The mighty water may become the Yellow River.
The whole Yellow River has become uneasy, and there is no end to the river work. My mountains have already been dug.
My mountains are being leveled, the wild rivers are flowing out, the fish are not happy, and winter is approaching again.
The rivers are slack and the water is always flowing, and the dragons are galloping and they are allowed to travel far away.
The water has returned to the old river channel. God is taking care of Peixian. If you don’t come out to pray, you don’t know what’s going on outside!
I said to He Bo, why are you so unkind and the floods are endless and so depressing?
The Huai River and the swimming pool are full of mulberry trees floating in the water. I wish I could not return to my old path for a long time. I wish the water flow would slow down a little.
Another one is:
The Yellow River is soupy and the water flows quickly. The north crossing is winding and the water flow is difficult to clear.
He pulled out the sprigs of grass and stuck them in the breach, and the beautiful jade fell into the river. He Bo agreed to calm the water, but there was not enough grass.
The lack of grass is the fault of the defenders. The people have insufficient firewood to keep the water flowing. Cut down the bamboos from the Qi Garden and make them into arbors to block the stone pillars. If the defense is blocked, great blessings will come.
So the breach of the gourd was finally blocked, and a palace was built on it, named Xuanfang.
Moreover, two canals were built on the north bank of the Yellow River to divert the water flow and restore the old appearance during the time of Dayu. The Liang and Chu areas regained peace and were free from floods.
From then on, people in power rushed to talk about the benefits of building canals.
Shuofang, Xihe, Hexi, Jiuquan and other areas all divert water from the Yellow River and river valleys to irrigate farmland.
The Lingzhi, Chengguo and Zhang canals in Guanzhong diverted the rivers, Runan and Jiujiang diverted the Huai River, Shuhai diverted the Juding, and the bottom of Mount Tai diverted the Wen River. They all dug canals to irrigate the fields, each with more than 10,000 hectares.
There are countless other small canals and water channels that cut through the mountains.
From the time when the Zheng Guo Canal was dug to the sixth year of Yuanding, it had been 136 years. Ni Kuan, the internal history of Zuo, petitioned to dig six auxiliary canals to facilitate the irrigation of the high farmland in the Zheng Guo Canal area.
The emperor said: Agriculture is the foundation of the world.
The spring water irrigates and nourishes the crops.
There used to be quite a lot of famous mountains and rivers in places where internal history was concerned, but the people didn't know their benefits, so they dug ditches and raised lake embankments to prevent droughts.
Nowadays, the land lease of Naishi rice fields is very heavy. Unlike other counties, I advocate for a reduction or exemption.
Order the government and the people to devote themselves to agriculture, make full use of the potential of the land, balance water conservancy, and not cause the people to miss the time for farming.
Sixteen years later, in the second year of Taishi, Bai Gong, the middle official of Zhao State, again petitioned to open the canal.
The Jing River is diverted from the mouth of the valley, flows into Liyang, and flows into the Wei River. It is 200 miles long and irrigates more than 4,500 hectares of farmland, so the canal is called Baiqu.
When the people benefited from it, they praised it and said: Where is the field?
Chiyang and Taniguchi are the places.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
郑国在前，白渠起后。
举臿为云，决渠为雨。
泾水一石，其泥数斗。
且溉且粪，长我禾黍。
衣食京师，亿万之口。
言此两渠饶也。
是时，方事匈奴，兴功利，言便宜者甚众。
齐人延年上书言： 河出昆仑，经中国，注勃海。是其地势西北高而东南下也。
可案图书，观地形，令水工准高下，开大河上领，出之胡中，东注之海。
如此，关东长无水灾，北边不忧匈奴，可以省堤防备塞，士卒转输，胡寇侵盗，覆军杀将，暴骨原野之患。
天下常备匈奴而不忧百越者，以其水绝壤断也。
此功一成，万世大利。
书奏，上壮之，报曰： 延年计议甚深。
然河乃大禹之所道也，圣人作事，为万世功，通于神明，恐难改更。
自塞宣房后，河复北决于馆陶，分为屯氏河，东北经魏郡、清河、信都、勃海入海，广深与大河等，故因其自然，不堤塞也。
此开通后，馆陶东北四五郡虽时小被水害，而兖州以南六郡无水忧。
宣帝地节中，光禄大夫郭昌使行河。
北曲三所水流之势皆邪直贝丘县。
恐水盛，堤防不能禁，乃各更穿渠，直东，经东郡界中，不令北曲。
渠通利，百姓安之。
元帝永光五年，河决清河灵鸣犊口，而屯氏河绝。
成帝初，清河都尉冯逡奏言： 郡承河下流，与兖州东郡分水为界，城郭所居尤卑下，土壤轻脆易伤。
顷所以阔无大害者，以屯氏河通，两川分流也。
今屯氏河塞，灵鸣犊口又益不利，独一川兼受数河之任，虽高增堤防，终不能泄。
translation: 
Zheng Guoqu is in front and Bai Qu is in the back.
The raised radium is like clouds, and the dug canals are like rain.
There is a stone in Jingshui and several buckets of mud.
I irrigate and fertilize at the same time to make my millet grow.
The food and clothing provided to the capital amounted to hundreds of millions of people.
It refers to the richness of these two canals.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was fighting against the Xiongnu, building utilitarian forces, and there were quite a few people stating things that were beneficial to the country.
Yannian, a native of Qi, wrote to the emperor: The Yellow River originates from the Kunlun Mountains, flows through the Central Plains, and flows into the Bohai Sea. This is because its terrain is high in the northwest and low in the southeast.
You can research books, observe the terrain, order hydraulic engineers to measure the height, open a big river on the mountain top, popular among the barbarians, and flow eastward into the sea.
In this way, the Kanto region will be free of floods for a long time, and the north will not have to worry about the Xiongnu. It can save the cost of embankments and blocking breaches, save soldiers the transportation of food, and avoid the invasion of barbarian enemies, reduce the casualties of soldiers and the losses of generals, and avoid the worry of leaving corpses in the wilderness.
The reason why the world is always on guard against the Xiongnu and not worried about the Baiyue is that the water in the Baiyue area blocks them.
Once this achievement is achieved, it will be a great benefit for all generations.
After the book was written, the emperor thought his plan was great and wrote back: The plan to extend life is quite profound.
But the Yellow River was channelized by Dayu. What the saints did has become the achievements of all generations. It is connected with the gods and may be difficult to change.
Since the Xuanfang breach was blocked, the Yellow River breached again in the Guantao area in the north and branched off to form the Tunshi River. It flowed into the sea through Weijun, Qinghe, Xindu and the Bohai Sea in the northeast. It was as wide and deep as a big river, so it was allowed to take its course and no blockage occurred.
After this was opened, although the four or five counties in the northeast of Guantao often suffered from small-scale floods, the six counties south of Yanzhou had no flood worries.
During the Dijie period of Emperor Xuan, Guo Chang, the official of Guanglu, was sent to patrol the Yellow River.
The water flows slowly through Beiqiu County in three meandering places in the north.
Guo Chang was worried that the embankment would not be able to withstand the flood, so he opened another canal straight to the east and passed through Shujun to prevent it from bending northward.
After the canal was opened, the people benefited and felt safe.
In the fifth year of Yongguang reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, the Yellow River burst at Lingmingdukou of Qinghe River, and the Tunshi River disappeared from then on.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Qinghe Commandery Feng Kui reported: Qinghe County is located in the lower reaches of the Yellow River, and is bounded by water from Shu County in Yanzhou. The residents in the suburbs are particularly low-lying, and the soil is fragile and easily damaged.
The reason why there are no major disasters at present is because the Tunshi River is flowing smoothly and the two rivers are diverted.
Now the Tunshi River is blocked, and Lingmingdukou is even more unfavorable. There is only one big river shouldering the tasks of several rivers. Even if the embankments are raised, the water will not be released.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
如有霖雨，旬日不霁，必盈溢。
灵鸣犊口在清河东界，所在处下，虽令通利，犹不能为魏郡、清河减损水害。
禹非不爱民力，以地形有势，故穿九河，今既灭难明，屯氏河不流行七十余年，新绝未久，其处易浚。
又其口所居高，于以分流杀水力，道里便宜，可复浚以助大河泄暴水，备非常。
又地节时郭昌穿直渠，后三岁，河水更从枚第二曲间北可六里，复南合。
今其曲势复邪直贝丘，百姓寒心，宜复穿渠东行。
不豫修治，北决病四五郡，南决病十余郡，然后忧之，晚矣。
事下丞相、御史，白博士许商治。《尚书》，善为算，能度功用。
遣行视，以为屯氏河盈溢所为，方用度不足，可且勿浚。
后三岁，河果决于馆陶及东郡金堤，泛滥兖、豫，入平原、千乘、济南，凡灌四郡三十二县，水居地十五万余顷，深者三丈，坏败官亭室庐且四万所。
御史大夫尹忠对方略疏阔，上切责之，忠自杀。
遣大司农非调调均钱谷河决所灌之郡，谒者二人发河南以东漕船五百木叟，徙民避水居丘陵，九万七千余口。
河堤使者王延世使塞，以竹落长四丈，大九围，盛以小石，两船夹载而下之。
三十六日，河堤成。
上曰： 东郡河决，流漂二州，校尉廷世堤防三旬立塞。
其以五年为河平元年。
卒治河者为著外繇六月。
惟延世长于计策，功费约省，用力日寡，朕甚嘉之。
其以延世为光禄大夫，秩中二千石，赐爵关内侯，黄金百斤。
后二岁，河复决平原，流入济南、千乘，所坏败者半建始时，复遣王延世治之。
translation: 
If there is continuous heavy rain and no sunshine for more than ten days, the river will definitely overflow.
Lingmingdukou is located on the eastern border of Qinghe River and is in a low position. Even if it is made unobstructed, it will not reduce the flood damage to Weijun and Qinghe River.
It's not that Dayu didn't value the power of the people, but because the terrain was high and low, he dug the Jiuhe River. Now it's hard to distinguish the traces of the Jiuhe River. The Tunshi River has been stagnant for more than 70 years. It was cut off not long ago and is easy to dredge.
In addition, the terrain where it originates is high, which can be used to divert water and reduce hydraulic pressure, making it easy to channel. It can be re-dredged to help the river divert floods in case of special circumstances.
In addition, in the middle of the Dijie year, Guo Chang dug a straight canal. Three years later, the Yellow River flow rejoined southward about six miles north of the original second bend.
Now its curved momentum is slowly passing through Danqiu County again. The people feel chilled and should reopen the canal to make the water flow eastward.
If it is not repaired, four or five counties will be harmed by the breach in the north, and more than ten counties will be harmed by the breach in the south. We will not worry about it until then. It's too late.
The matter was handed over to the Prime Minister and the Censor. The Prime Minister and the Censor said that Xu Shang, a doctor, had studied the Book of Documents and was good at calculations and could estimate costs.
Xu Shang was sent to inspect the river, and he believed that the flooding of the Tunshi River coincided with the country's lack of financial resources and manpower, so dredging could not be carried out for the time being.
Three years later, the Yellow River broke through the Jindi in Guantao and Shujun, flooding Yanzhou and Yuzhou, and entering Pingyuan, Qiancheng, Jinan and other places. A total of 32 counties in four counties were flooded, and more than 150,000 hectares of water were flooded. The depth was up to 30 feet, and nearly 40,000 official houses were damaged.
The imperial censor Yin Zhong's correct strategy was unrealistic. The emperor severely scolded him, and Yin Zhong committed suicide.
The emperor sent his chief minister Nong Fei to allocate the money and grains of Junping to the counties and counties flooded by the Yellow River burst. He sent two emissaries to recruit 500 canal boats from Henan Province, and moved the people to live on the hills to avoid the water flow. There were more than 97,000 people in total.
Wang Yanshi, the envoy of the Yellow River Embankment, was sent to block the breach. He used bamboo four feet long and nine feet in diameter, filled with small stones, and thrown into the river between two boats.
In thirty-six days, the Yellow River embankment was formed.
The emperor said: The Yellow River in Shujun burst and drifted to Erzhou. The school captain Wang Yanshi built an embankment and it was completed in the thirtieth year.
It is decreed that five years will be the first year of Heping.
Among the soldiers who controlled the Yellow River, they were ordered to serve as border guards for six months.
Only Wang Yanshi was good at strategizing and planning, and he was very economical in achieving his achievements, using less energy and less time. I appreciate this very much.
Wang Yanshi was specially appointed as Guanglu doctor, received a salary of two thousand dan, was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and was rewarded with a hundred catties of gold.
Two years later, the Yellow River broke through the plain again and flowed into Jinan and Qiancheng. The damage was more than half of what it was at the beginning of Jianjian. The emperor sent Wang Yanshi to control Tonghui.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
杜钦说大将军王凤，以为： 前河决，丞相史杨焉言延世受焉术以塞之，蔽不肯见。
今独任延世，延世见前塞之易，恐其虑害不深。
又审如焉言，延世之巧，反不如焉。
且水势各异，不博议利害而任一人，如使不及今冬成，来春桃华水盛，必羡溢，有填淤反壤之害。
如此，数郡种不得下，民人流散，盗贼将生，虽重诛延世，无益于事。
宜遣焉及将作大匠许商、谏大夫乘马延年杂作。
延世与焉必相破坏，深论便宜，以相难极。
商、延年皆明计算，能商功利，足以分别是非，择其善而从之，必有成功。
凤如钦言，白遣焉等作治，六月乃成。
复赐延世黄金百斤，治河卒非受平贾者，为著外繇六月。
后九岁，鸿嘉四年，杨焉言： 从河上下，患底柱隘，可镌广之。
上从其言，使焉镌之。
镌之裁没水中，不能去，而令水益湍怒，为害甚于故。
是岁，勃海、清河、信都河水湓溢，灌县邑三十一，败官亭民舍四万余所。
河堤都尉许商与丞相史孙禁共行视，图方略。
禁以为： 今河溢之害数倍于前决平原时。
今可决平原金堤间，开通大河，令入故笃马河。
至海五百余里，水道浚利，又干三郡水地，得美田且二十余万顷，足以偿所开伤民田庐处，又省吏卒治堤救水，岁三万人以上。
许商以为： 古说九河之名，有徒骇、胡苏、鬲津，今见在成平、东光、鬲界中。
自鬲以北至徒骇间，相去二百余里，今河虽数移徙，不离此域。
孙禁所欲开者，在九河南笃马河，失水之迹，处势平夷，旱则淤绝，水则为败，不可许。
公卿皆从商言。
translation: 
Si Fu persuaded General Gong Huang, thinking that the previous time the Yellow River burst, Prime Minister Shi Yang Yan said that Wang Yanshi used the method provided by Yang Yan to block the breach, and this matter was hidden and refused to be exposed.
Wang Yanshi is now the sole president. Wang Yanshi saw that it was easy to block the breach last time. I am afraid that he will not think deeply about the problem.
And as Yang Yan said, Wang Yanshi's skills were not as good as Yang Yan's.
Moreover, water potentials vary from person to person, and if one person is used without discussing the pros and cons extensively, if it does not succeed this winter, there will be a lot of water when the peach blossoms are in bloom next spring, and it will definitely flood, and there will be dangers of being filled with silt and causing the soil to return.
If this is the case, grain seeds in several counties will not be planted, the people will be displaced, and thieves will appear. Even if Wang Yanshi is killed again, it will not be helpful.
Yang Yan, the general minister Xu Shang, and the admonishing doctor should be dispatched to ride on horseback and participate together.
Wang Yanshi and Yang Yan will definitely undermine each other. It is really difficult to discuss their interests in depth.
Xu Shang and Cheng Ma Yannian both know how to calculate and estimate benefits, and are able to distinguish right from wrong. If they choose what they are right to adopt, they will definitely succeed.
Wang Feng listened to Du Qin and told the emperor to send Yang Yan and others to control the river. They succeeded within six months.
The emperor also gave Wang Yanshi a hundred catties of gold. The soldiers who regulated the Yellow River refused to accept the lower price, so they recorded that they had served for six months on the border.
Nine years later, in the fourth year of Hongjia, Yang Yan said that people from the upper reaches to the lower reaches of the Yellow River were worried about the collapse of the embankments in the Dizhu area, and they could dig mountains to widen the river surface.
The emperor listened to his words and sent Yang Yan to be responsible for chiseling the mountain.
The stones used to cut the mountain are buried in the water and cannot flow away. Instead, it makes the water more turbulent and causes greater harm than before.
This year, the Yellow River in Bohai, Qinghe, and Xindu overflowed, submerging 31 counties and cities, and damaging more than 40,000 official pavilions and private houses.
Xu Shang, the captain of the Yellow River Embankment, patrolled with Prime Minister Shi Sunjin and planned strategies.
Sun Jin believes that the current flooding of the Yellow River is several times more serious than the last time it burst in the plains.
Nowadays, a large river can be opened in the Jindi area of ​​​​Pingyuan, so that the river water can flow into the former Tuma River.
It is more than 500 miles to the sea, and the waterway is unimpeded. It can also dry out the water in the three counties and gain nearly 200,000 hectares of fertile land, which is enough to compensate for the damage to the people's fields and houses caused by the opening of the river. It also saves the officers and soldiers to man the embankments and rescue water, which can reach more than 30,000 people a year.
Xu Shang believes that in ancient legends, the names of Jiuhe include Tuhai, Husu and Kejin, which can now be seen in Chengping, Shuguang and Kedi.
The distance from the north of Lijin to Tuhai is more than two hundred miles. Although the current Yellow River has moved several times, it has not left this area.
The place Sun Jin wanted to dig was in the Duma River south of Jiuhe River. There was no water flow route and the terrain was flat. It would be silted up and cut off when there was drought, and it would collapse when there was a lot of water. It was not advisable.
The ministers all agreed with Xu Shang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
先是，谷永以为： 河，中国之经渎，圣王兴则出图书，王道废则竭绝。
今溃溢横流，漂没陵阜，异之大者也。
修政以应之，灾变自除。
是时，李寻、解光亦言： 阴气盛则水为之长，故一日之间。昼减夜增，江河满溢，所谓水不润下，虽常于卑下之地，犹日月变见于朔望，明天道有因而作也。
众庶见王延世蒙重赏，竞言便巧，不可用。
议者常欲求索九河故迹而穿之，今因其自决，可且勿塞，以观水势。
河欲居之，当稍自成川，跳出沙土，然后顺天心而图之，必有成功，而用财力寡。
于是遂止不塞。
满昌、师丹等数言百姓可哀，上数遣使者处业振赡之。
哀帝初，平当使领河堤，奏言： 九河今皆寘灭，按经义治水，有决河深川，而无堤防雍塞之文。
河从魏郡以东，北多溢决，水迹难以分明。
四海之众不可诬，宜博求能浚川疏河者。
下丞相孔光、大司空何武，奏请部刺史、三辅、三河、弘农太守举吏民能者，莫有应书。
待诏贾让奏言：
治河有上、中、下策。
古首立国居民，疆理土地，必遗川泽之分，度水势所不及。
大川无防，小水得入，陂障卑下，以为汙泽，使秋水多，得有所休息，左右游波，宽缓而不迫。
夫土之有川，犹人之有口也。
治土而防其川，犹止儿蹄而塞其口，岂不遽止，然其死可立而待也。
故曰： 善为川者，决之使道；善为民者，宣之使言。
盖堤防之作，近起战国，雍防百川，各以自利。
齐与赵、魏，以河为竟。
translation: 
Before this, Gu Yong believed that the Yellow River was the main river in the Central Plains. When the sage kings rose, pictures and books were produced, but when the king's way disappeared, the water dried up.
Now the river has collapsed and flowed across, submerging the tomb house. This is the biggest weird thing.
Modify politics to respond to it, and the catastrophe can be eliminated naturally.
At this time, Li Xun and Jie Guang also said that when Yin Qi is strong, water will rise. Therefore, during the day, the water decreases during the day and increases at night. The rivers are overflowing. The so-called water does not nourish low places, although it is often in low places. It is like the sun and the moon changing during the synodic period. It is understood that the way of heaven moves for a reason.
When everyone saw that Wang Yanshi had received a heavy reward, they all came up with simple and cunning strategies, but they could not be used.
The people who proposed it often wanted to explore the old traces of Jiuhe and dig it out. Now let it flow by itself, and leave it unblocked for the time being to observe the water flow.
If the water of the Yellow River wants to flow through it, it should gradually form a river, jump out of the sand, and then follow the will of God. It will definitely succeed and cost little money and resources.
So it stopped without blocking.
Man Lu, Shi Dan and others expressed their pity for the people several times, and the emperor sent envoys several times to appease the people and provide relief.
In the early years of Emperor Ai, Pingdang was ordered to manage the embankments of the Yellow River. He wrote in a memorial: All the nine rivers have been silted up now. To manage the river water according to the meaning of the scriptures, there are rivers for drainage and large rivers for dredging, but there is no text about embankments and siltation.
The Yellow River flows from Wei County to the east. There are many breaches caused by water overflow in the north, and the traces of the water flow are difficult to distinguish.
The people all over the world cannot be deceived, and people who can dredge rivers should be widely solicited.
The emperor handed over the matter to Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu, and asked the governor, Sanfu, Sanhe and Hongnong to recommend people among the officials and the people who could manage the river. No one responded to the call.
Waiting for the imperial edict, Mairang went to the memorial and said:
There are three strategies to manage the Yellow River: upper, middle and lower.
In ancient times, when establishing a country, stabilizing the people, and dividing the land, it was necessary to leave behind the distribution of rivers and lakes, and to estimate the places that the water potential could not reach.
The big river is unprepared, and small water can enter, and the water bank is low, becoming a stagnant lake. If there is a lot of water in autumn, the water must be allowed to stay, and the water waves sway left and right, calmly and leisurely without being urgent.
The land has rivers, just like people have mouths.
Managing the land and guarding against the rivers is like stopping the crying of a child and blocking his mouth. Wouldn't it stop immediately, but his death can also be waited for immediately?
Therefore, it is said: Those who are good at managing rivers should open the mouth of the river so that it can be channeled; those who are good at managing people should let them speak freely.
Probably the construction of embankments started during the Warring States Period, blocking hundreds of rivers, each for its own benefit.
Qi State, Tang State and Wei State took the Yellow River as their boundary.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
赵、魏濒山，齐地卑下，作堤去河二十五里。
河水东抵齐堤，则西泛赵、魏，赵、魏亦为堤去河二十五里。
虽非其正，水尚有所游荡。
时至而去，则填淤肥美，民耕田之。
或久无害，稍筑室宅，遂成聚落。
大水时至漂没，则更起堤防以自救，稍去其城郭，排水泽而居之，湛溺自其宜也。
今堤防陿者去水数百步，远者数里。
近黎阳南故大金堤，从河西西北行，至西山南头，乃折东，与东山相属。
民居金堤东，为庐舍，往十余岁更起堤，从东山南头直南与故大堤会。
又内黄界中有泽，方数十里，环之有堤，往十余岁太守以赋民，民今起庐舍其中，此臣亲所见者也。
东郡白马故大堤亦复数重，民皆居其间。
从黎阳北尽魏界，故大堤去河远者数十里，内亦数重，此皆前世所排也。
河从河内北至黎阳为石堤，激使东抵东郡平刚；又为石堤，使西北抵黎阳、观下；又为石堤；使东北抵东郡津北；又为石堤，使西北抵魏郡昭阳；又为石堤，激使东北。
百余里间，河再西三东，迫厄如此，不得安息。
今行上策，徙冀州之民当水冲者，决黎阳遮害亭，放河使北入海。
河西薄大山，东薄金堤，势不能远泛滥，期月自定，难者将曰： 若如此，败坏城郭田庐冢墓以万数，百姓怨恨。
昔大禹治水，山陵当路者毁之，故凿龙门，辟伊阙，析底柱，破碣石，堕断天地之性。
此乃人功所造，何足言也！
translation: 
The states of Zhao and Wei were close to the mountains, and the state of Qi was located in a low terrain. The embankment they built was twenty-five miles away from the Yellow River.
When the water of the Yellow River reaches the embankment of Qi State in the east, it will flood the land of Fang and Wei in the west. Fang and Wei also built embankments twenty-five miles away from the Yellow River.
Although this is not quite right, water still has some room for maneuver.
Sometimes the water would recede as soon as it arrived, leaving the land filled with silt to become quite fertile, and the people would clear up wasteland and farm.
Sometimes there are no disasters for a long time, and people gradually build houses here, forming villages.
When the flood came and they were submerged, they built dikes to save themselves. They left their city a little bit, drained the water, and lived there. The water sank just right.
Now the narrow part of the embankment is only a few hundred steps away from the water, and it is several miles away.
Close to the former Dajin Embankment in the south of Liyang, it winds from the west of the Yellow River to the northwest. After reaching the south end of Xishan Mountain, it turns east and connects with Dongshan Mountain.
People lived on the east side of Jindi and built houses. Often the embankment would be rebuilt after more than ten years, starting from the south end of Shushan Mountain and going straight south to join the old embankment.
In addition, there is a lake in Neihuang, with a radius of dozens of miles, and a dike surrounding the lake. Often after more than ten years, the prefect will allocate part of the land to the people, and the people are now building houses in it. This is what I have seen with my own eyes.
There are also several old dykes in Baima, Shujun, and the people live in them.
After walking north from Liyang to the Wei border, the old embankment is dozens of miles away from the Yellow River, and there are several embankments on the surface, all of which were built by the previous generation.
The Yellow River forms a stone embankment from Hanoi to the north to Liyang, and the water hits the stone to make it reach Pinggang in Shujun in the east. It also builds a stone embankment to make the water flow northwest to Liyang and Guanxian County. It builds a stone embankment to make the water flow to the northeast and reaches the north of Shujun Ferry. It builds a stone embankment to make it go northwest to Zhaoyang in Weijun. It also builds a stone embankment to make the water flow to the northeast.
For more than a hundred miles, the Yellow River turned west twice and three times east. It was so winding that it was impossible to rest.
If we implement the best strategy now, we should relocate the people in the Jizhou area where the water flow is important, open the breach of Liyang Zhahu Pavilion, and let the water of the Yellow River flow northward into the sea.
The Yellow River faces mountains to the west and Jindi to the east and west. Judging from the situation, it will not flood for a long time and will naturally stabilize after a full month. Those who criticize will say: If this is done, tens of thousands of tombs in the city's fields and houses will be damaged, and the people will be resentful.
In the past, when Dayu controlled the floods, he destroyed the mountains and tombs that blocked the waterway. Therefore, he dug out the dragon gates, opened up the Yique, split the bottom pillars, and broke the jieshi, destroying the characteristics of the heaven and the earth.
This is formed by human skill, so what is there to say!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今濒河十郡治堤岁费且万万，及其大决，所残无数。
如出数年治河之费，以业所徙之民，遵古圣之法，定山川之位，使神人各处其所，而不相奸。
且以大汉方制万里，岂其与水争咫尺之地哉？
此功一立，河定民安，千载无患，故谓之上策。
若乃多穿漕渠于冀州地，使民得以溉田，分杀水怒，虽非圣人法，然亦救败术也。
难者将曰： 河水高于平地，岁增堤防，犹尚决溢，不可以开渠。
臣窃按视遮害亭西十八里，至淇水口，乃月金堤，高一丈。
自是东，地稍下，堤稍高，至遮害亭，高四五丈。
往六七岁，河水大盛，增丈七尺，坏黎阳南郭门，入至堤下。
水未逾堤二尺所，从堤上北望，河高出民屋，百姓皆走上山。
水留十三日，堤溃，吏民塞之。
臣循堤上，行视水势，南七十余里，至淇口，水适至堤半，计出地上五尺所。
今可从淇口以东为石堤，多张水门。
初元中，遮害亭下河去堤足数十步，至今四十余岁，适至堤足。
由是言之，其地坚矣。
恐议者疑河大川难禁制，荥阳漕渠足以卜之，其水门但用木与土耳，今据坚地作石堤，势必完安。
冀州渠首尽当卬此水门。
治渠非穿地也，但为东方一堤，北行三百余里，入漳水中，其西因山足高地，诸渠皆往往股引取之；旱则开东方下水门溉冀州，水则开西方高门分河流。
通渠有三利，不通有三害。
民常罢于救水，半失作业；水行地上，凑润上彻，民则病湿气，木皆立枯，卤不生谷；决溢有败，为鱼鳖食：此三害也。
translation: 
The ten counties close to the Yellow River now spend nearly 100 million yuan on embankment control. As for the large breaches, the damage caused is countless.
If we spend several years managing the Yellow River to resettle the relocated people, we should follow the methods of ancient sages to determine the location of mountains and rivers so that gods and humans can stay in their own places without disturbing each other.
Moreover, the Han Dynasty had just ruled the country thousands of miles away, how could it compete with water for land within a stone’s throw?
Once this achievement is established, the Yellow River will be stable, the people will be at peace, and they will have no worries for thousands of years, so it is called the best policy.
If more canals are dug in the Jizhou area so that the people can use them to irrigate farmland and share the rapid flow of water, even if it is not the method of a saint, it is still a tactic to save failure.
Those who challenge will say: The water level of the Yellow River is higher than the level of the plains, and the embankments are added every year. If they are breached, no more canals can be opened.
I privately inspected the area eighteen miles west of Zhahu Pavilion. When I reached the mouth of Qishui River, there was a golden embankment, one foot high.
From Zao to the east, the terrain gradually becomes lower and the embankment becomes higher, reaching the Zhaha Pavilion, which is four or five feet high.
Six or seven years ago, the Yellow River was so strong that it rose to a height of one to seven feet. It destroyed the city gate in the south of Liyang and the water flowed down the embankment.
The water had not crossed more than two feet below the embankment. Looking north from the embankment, I saw that the Yellow River was higher than the houses, and the people ran to the mountains.
The water stayed for thirteen days, the embankment collapsed, and the officials and the people blocked it.
I walked upstream along the embankment to check the water situation. I walked south for more than ten miles and reached Qikou. The water only reached half of the embankment and was estimated to be about five feet above the ground.
Now we can build stone embankments from the east of Qikou and open more water gates.
In the early Yuan Dynasty, Zhaha Pavilion was lower than the Yellow River and dozens of steps away from the embankment. It has been more than 40 years since it reached the foot of the embankment.
In this sense, this place is solid.
I'm afraid those who are talking about it will doubt that the Yellow River is a big river that is difficult to control. The canal in Rongyang is enough to prove that this sluice uses only wood and earth. Now it will be very safe to build a stone embankment based on a solid foundation.
All water canals in Jizhou area rely on this water gate.
The construction of the canal does not involve digging the ground. It only builds an embankment in the east. It goes north for more than 300 miles and flows into the Zhang River. The west side of the canal is highland because the foot of the mountain is high, so each canal often diverts water separately. When there is a drought, the sluices in the eastern lowlands are opened to irrigate Jizhou. When there are floods, the sluices in the western highlands are opened to divert the water.
There are three benefits to opening water canals, and there are three harms to not opening water canals.
People often struggle to save water and basically lose production; when water flows to the ground and the accumulated water evaporates, people will get rheumatism, and trees will quickly wither, forming saline-alkali land where millet cannot grow; river mouths burst and become food for fish and turtles: these are three hazards.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
若有渠溉，则盐卤下湿，填淤加肥；故种禾麦，更为粳稻，高田五倍，下田十倍；转漕舟船之便：此三利也。
今濒河堤吏卒郡数千人，伐买薪石之费岁数千万，足以通渠成水门；又民利其溉灌，相率治渠，虽劳不罢。
民田适治，河堤亦成，此诚富国安民，兴利除害，支数百岁，故谓之中策。
若乃缮完故堤，增卑倍薄，劳费无已，数逢其害，此最下策也。
王莽时，征能治河者以百数，其大略异者，长水校尉平陵关并言： 河决率常于平原、东郡左右，其地形下而土疏恶。
闻禹治河时，本空此地，以为水猥，盛则放溢，少稍自索，虽时易处，犹不能离此。
上古难识，近察秦、汉以来，河决曹、卫之域，其南北不过百八十里者，可空此地，勿以为官亭民室而已。
大司马史长安张戎言： 水性就下，行疾则自刮除成空而稍深。
河水重浊，号为一石水而六斗泥。
今西方诸郡，以至京师东行，民皆引河、渭山川水溉田。
春夏干燥。少水时也，故使河流迟，贮淤而稍浅；雨多水暴至，则溢决。
而国家数堤塞之，稍益高于平地，犹筑垣而居水也。
可各顺从其性，毋复灌溉，则百川流行，水道自利，无溢决之害矣。
御史临淮韩牧以为 可略于《禹贡》九河处穿之，纵不能为九，但为四五，宜有益。
大司空掾王横言： 河入勃海，勃海地高于韩牧所欲穿处。
往者天尝连雨，东北风，海水溢，西南出，浸数百里，九河之地已为海所渐矣。
禹之行河水，本随西山下东北去。
《周谱》云定王五，年河徙，则今所行非禹之所穿也。
又秦攻魏，决河灌其都，决处遂大，不可复补。
宜却徙完平处，更开空，使缘西山足乘高地而东北入海，乃无水灾。
translation: 
If there is canal water for irrigation, then the saline and alkaline soil will sink, and the silt will be filled to increase fertilizer; therefore, wheat and japonica rice are planted, and the yield is five times higher than that of high-yielding fields and ten times higher than that of low-yielding fields; it is conducive to the convenience of water transportation ships: these are three conveniences.
Now there are thousands of officers and soldiers near the embankment of the Yellow River, and the cost of cutting firewood and buying stones is tens of millions a year. These expenses are enough to open canals and build sluices. In addition, when the people get the benefits of irrigation, they will rush to open canals, and they will not feel tired even if they are tired.
The people's farmland has been managed, and the banks of the Yellow River have been built. This has made the country prosperous and peaceful, bringing benefits and eliminating harm, and can last for hundreds of years, so it is called Zhongce.
If we just repair the old embankment, fill up the low land, and thicken the thin areas, the labor and cost will be endless, and we will be repeatedly harmed by it. This is the worst strategy.
During Wang Mang's reign, he recruited more than a hundred people who could manage the Yellow River. Among them, the most prominent one was Changshui Colonel Wei Pinglingguan. He said: The Yellow River breaches are usually found in plains and around Shujun. Its terrain is low and the soil is loose.
I heard that when Dayu was regulating the Yellow River, he originally passed through this place. He thought that there was a lot of water in it.
It is difficult to identify the ancient times. Recent observations since the Qin and Han dynasties show that the Yellow River bursts in the Cao and Wei areas, and the distance between the north and the south is no more than 180 miles. This place can be left vacant and no official pavilions or houses should be built.
Zhang Rong of Da Sima Shi Chang'an said: The nature of water is to move toward lowlands. If it travels quickly, it will naturally scrape away the soil and form an open space that will gradually deepen.
The water in the Yellow River is quite turbid. It is said that one stone of water contains six buckets of mud.
Now in all counties in the west, as well as in the capital, people use water from the Yellow River, Wei River, and mountains to irrigate their farmland.
Spring and summer are dry, when there is less water, so the Yellow River flows slowly, silts out and gradually becomes shallower; when it rains more, water rushes in crazily, causing it to burst.
And the country blocked the breach several times and gradually became higher than the ground, just like building a low wall and living in the water.
You can each obey their circumstances and don't use them for irrigation, which will cause hundreds! If it flows smoothly, the waterway will naturally be smooth, and there will be no danger of the river bursting.
Han Mu of Linhuai, the imperial censor, said: It can be dug roughly according to the location of the nine rivers in "Yu Gong". Even if it cannot be dug into nine, as long as it can be dug into four or five, it will be beneficial.
Wang Heng, the Great Sikong Dynasty, said: The Yellow River flows into Bohai, and the terrain of Bohai is higher than where Han Mu planned to dig.
In the past, it rained continuously and the wind blew from the northeast. The sea water overflowed and surged out to the southwest, submerging hundreds of miles of land. The area of ​​Jiuhe has been swallowed up by the sea.
The water of the Yellow River flowed by Dayu originally followed the mountains to the west and flowed down to the northeast.
"Book of Zhou" records that the Yellow River shifted its position in the fifth year of King Ding, so the place where it is now popular was not dug by Dayu.
In addition, Qin State attacked Wei State and broke through the Yellow River, flooding the capital of Wei State. The breach gradually increased and could no longer be repaired.
It should be returned to the original completely flat area and re-excavated so that the river water can reach the high ground along the west mountain and flow northeast to the sea, so that there will be no floods.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
沛郡桓谭为司空掾，典其议，为甄丰言： 凡此数者，必有一是。
宜详考验，皆可豫见，计定然后举事，费不过数亿万，亦可以事诸浮食无产业民。
空居与行役，同当衣食；衣食县官，而为之作，乃两便，可以上继禹功，下除民疾。
王莽时，但崇空语，无施行者。
赞曰：古人有言： 微禹之功，吾其鱼乎！
中国川原以百数，莫著于四渎，而河为宗。
孔子曰： 多闻而志之，知之次也。
国之利害，故备论其事。
translation: 
Huan Tan of Peijun was Sikong Tu and was in charge of their suggestions. He said to Zhen Feng: One of these suggestions must be right.
It should be carefully examined, and most of them can be foreseen. Work will be carried out after the plan is finalized, and the cost will only be a few hundred million. You can also hire people who are freeloaders and have no industry.
You can save housing and labor, and use your power as food and clothing; ask the government for food and clothing, and the government will provide it for them. This is convenient in both aspects. You can inherit the achievements of Dayu upwards and eliminate the sufferings of the people downwards.
During the reign of Wang Mang, people had no choice but to talk empty words without anyone implementing them.
Praise: The ancients once said: Without the contribution of Dayu, we would all have become fish!
There are hundreds of rivers and plains in China, and none is more famous than Sidu, among which the Yellow River is the suzerain.
Confucius said: Listening more and remembering carefully are secondary aspects of seeking knowledge.
Water is a national interest, so its ins and outs must be discussed in detail.


