Chunk 0: 
original: 
乌孙国，大昆弥治赤谷城，去长安八千九百里。
户十二万，口六十三万，胜兵十八万八千八百人。
相，大禄，左右大将二人，侯三人，大将、都尉各一人，大监二人，大吏一人，舍中大吏二人，骑君一人。
东至都护治所千七百二十一里，西至康居蕃内地五千里。
地莽平。多雨，寒。
山多松樠。
不田作种树，随畜逐水草，与匈奴同俗。
国多马，富人至四五千匹。
民刚恶，贪狼无信，多寇盗，最为强国。
故服匈奴，后盛大，取羁属，不肯往朝会。
东与匈奴、西北与康居、西与大宛、南与城郭诸国相接。
本塞地也，大月氏西破走塞王，塞王南越县度。大月氏居其地。
后乌孙昆莫击破大月氏，大月氏徙西臣大夏，而乌孙昆莫居之，故乌孙民有塞种、大月氏种云。
始张骞言乌孙本与大月氏共在敦煌间，今乌孙虽强大，可厚赂招，令东居故地，妻以公主，与为昆弟，以制匈奴。
语在《张骞传》。
武帝即位，令骞赍金币住。
昆莫见骞如单于礼，骞大惭，谓曰： 天子致赐，王不拜，则还赐。
昆莫起拜，其它如故。
初，昆莫有十余子，中子大禄强，善将，将众万余骑别居。
大禄兄太子，太子有子曰岑陬。
太子蚤死，谓昆莫曰： 必以岑陬为太子。
昆莫哀许之。
大禄怒，乃收其昆弟，将众畔，谋攻岑陬。
昆莫与芩陬万余骑，令别居，昆莫亦自有万余骑以自备。
国分为三，大总羁属昆莫。
骞既致赐，谕指曰： 乌孙能东居故地，则汉遣公主为夫人，结为昆弟，共距匈奴，不足破也。
translation: 
In the Wusun Kingdom, Da Kunmi governed Chigu City and was sent to Chang'an for 8,900 miles.
There are 120,000 households, a population of 630,000, and an army of 188,800 people.
There is a prime minister, a big official, two generals on the left and right, three marquis, one general and a captain, two eunuchs, one official, two senior officials in the house, and one knight.
It went as far as Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, for 1,721 miles, and to the west as far as the hinterland of Kangju and Fan, 5,000 miles.
The land is grassy and flat, rainy and the climate is cold.
There are many pines on the mountain.
The residents do not farm or plant trees, but live with their livestock in search of water and grass, which is the same custom as the Xiongnu.
The country is prolific with horses, and wealthy people have as many as four to five thousand horses.
The people are strong-willed, greedy for money, unfaithful, and have many thieves. This is a powerful country.
He used to submit to the Xiongnu, but later he became powerful and adopted a restrained attitude towards the Xiongnu and refused to go to worship.
It borders the Xiongnu in the east, Kangju in the northwest, Dawan in the west, and the Chengguo Kingdoms in the south.
Zaojie was originally the land of the Sai people. The Dayue clan defeated and drove away the King of Sai to the west. The King of Sai moved to the south of the county, and the Dayue clan occupied the land of the Sai people.
Later, Wusun Kunmo defeated Dayuezhi, and Dayuezhi moved westward and surrendered to Daxia. Wusun Kunmo occupied the original Dayuezhi land, so Wusun residents included Sai people and Dayuezhi people.
At first, Zhang Qian said that Wusun and Da Yueshi were originally in Dunhuang. Although Wusun was now stronger, he could still give them some generous gifts to lure them back to their hometown; and then marry the princess to Kunmo, and!
The emperor urgently wanted to become a country of brothers and used this method to restrain the Xiongnu.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Qian". Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne and ordered Zhang Qian to bring gold coins and treasures to Wusun.
Kun Mo met Zhang Qian with the attitude of the Xiongnu Chanyu. Zhang Qian was very ashamed and angry, and said to Kun Mo: If you don't thank the emperor for giving you a gift, then return the gift to us.
Kunmo stood up and thanked him, but in other respects he remained the same.
At the beginning, Kunmo had more than a dozen sons. The middle son Dalu was very strong and good at leading troops. He led more than 10,000 cavalry and lived elsewhere.
Dalu's brother was the prince, and the prince had a son named Cen Zuo.
The prince died early. Before his death, he said to Kunmo: "Cen Zou must be the prince."
Kunmo was sad and agreed.
Dalu was very angry about this incident, so he captured all the other brothers, led his soldiers to rebel, and prepared to attack Cen Zuo.
Kunmo gave Cen Zuo more than 10,000 cavalry and ordered him to station elsewhere. He also had more than 10,000 cavalry for self-defense.
At this time, the country was divided into three parts, all under the control of Kunmo.
After Zhang Qian handed over the gifts given to Kunmo by the Han Dynasty, he said to Kunmo: If Wusun can return to his hometown, the Han Dynasty will send the princess as Kunmo's wife. The two countries will become brotherly countries and resist the Xiongnu together. The Xiongnu will definitely be defeated.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乌孙远汉，未知其大小，又近匈奴，服属日久，其大臣皆不欲徙。
昆莫年老国分，不能专制，乃发使送骞，因献马数十匹报谢。
其使见汉人众富厚，归其国，其国后乃益重汉。
匈奴闻其与汉通，怒欲击之。
又汉使乌孙，乃出其南，抵大宛、月氏，相属不绝。
乌孙于是恐，使使献马，愿得尚汉公主，为昆弟。
天子问群臣，议许，曰： 必先内聘，然后遣女。
乌孙以马千匹聘。
汉元封中，遣江都王建女细君为公主，以妻焉。赐乘舆服御物，为备官属宦官侍御数百人，赠送甚盛。
乌孙昆莫以为右夫人。
匈奴亦遣女妻昆莫，昆莫以为左夫人。
公主至其国，自治宫室居，岁时一再与昆莫会，置酒饮食，以币、帛赐王左右贵人。
昆莫年老，言语不通，公主悲愁，自为作歌曰： 吾家嫁我兮天一方，远托异国兮乌孙王。
穹庐为室兮旃为墙，以肉为食兮酪为浆。
居常土思兮心内伤，愿为黄鹄兮归故乡。
天子闻而怜之，间岁遣使者持帷帐锦绣给遗焉。
昆莫年老，欲使其孙岑陬尚公主。
公主不听，上书言状，天子报曰： 从其国俗，欲与乌孙共灭胡。
岑陬遂妻公主。
昆莫死，岑陬代立。
岑陬者，官号也，名军须靡。
昆莫，王号也，名猎骄靡。
后书 昆弥 云。
岑陬尚江都公主，生一女少夫。
公主死，汉复以楚王戊之孙解忧为公主，妻岑陬。
岑陬胡妇子泥靡尚小，岑陬且死，以国与季父大禄子翁归靡，曰： 泥靡大，以国归之。
translation: 
But Wusun was far away from the Han Dynasty, and the size of the Han Dynasty was unknown. Wusun himself was close to the Xiongnu and had obeyed the Xiongnu for a long time. None of the ministers were willing to move eastward.
Kunmo is old, the country is divided, and power cannot be concentrated. So an envoy was sent to take Zhang Qian back to Chang'an, and at the same time, he offered dozens of horses as a thank you.
The envoy saw that the Han Dynasty had a large population and rich products. After returning home, Wusun respected the Han Dynasty more and more.
When the Xiongnu heard that Wusun had contact with the Han, they were very angry and wanted to attack Wusun.
In addition, the envoys of the Han Dynasty passed south of Wusun to Dayuan and Yuezhi, and they were not stopped on the road.
Wusun was very frightened, so he sent an envoy to offer horses to the Han Dynasty and offered to marry Princess Mo, and the two countries became brothers.
The emperor asked the ministers for their opinions, and the court agreed. Decision: The bride price must be paid first, and then the princess must be sent away.
Wusun gave a thousand horses as a betrothal gift.
During the Yuanfeng period of the Han Dynasty, Xijun, the daughter of King Liu Jian of Jiangdu, was sent to marry Kunmo as a princess. The emperor gave her carriages, horses and royal utensils. He also equipped her with hundreds of officials, eunuchs, maids and servants, and gave her rich gifts.
Wusun Kunmo took Mr. Bin as his right wife.
The Xiongnu also sent women to marry Kunmo, and Kunmo took the Xiongnu girl as his left wife.
After the princess arrived in Wusun, she built a palace to live in. She had gatherings with Kunmo several times a year, drank and ate, and rewarded the nobles around Kunmo with property, silk fabrics, etc.
Kunmo was old and couldn't understand the language. The princess was very sad and composed a song by herself: My family married me to the far side of the sky, and asked King Yan of Wu to come to a foreign country far away.
The dome is the room, the walls are the walls, the meat is the food, and the cheese is the pulp.
Living in this land, I miss you and my heart hurts. I wish you could return to your hometown as a yellow swan.
When the emperor heard about it, he felt pity for her and sent envoys every other year to deliver curtains, brocade and other items.
Kunmo is old and wants his grandson Cen Zuo to marry the princess.
The princess disagreed and wrote to the emperor explaining the matter. The emperor replied: Following the custom of Wusun country, Mo wants to join forces with Wusun to destroy the Xiongnu.
Cen Zuo married the princess.
Kun Mo died, and Cen Zou became king in his stead.
Cen Zuo is an official title, and his name is Jun Xumi.
Kunmo is the king's name, and his name is Liejiaomi.
Later, the king was named Kunmi.
Cen Zuo married the princess of Jiangdu and gave birth to a daughter named Shaofu.
After the princess died, the Han Dynasty sent Jieyou, the granddaughter of King Liu Wu of Chu, to marry Cen Zou for the princess.
Cen Zou's son Nimi by his Hun wife was still young. When Cen Zou was about to die, he passed the throne to his uncle Dalu's son Weng Guimi. He said: When Nimi grows up, he will return the throne to Nimi.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
翁归靡既立，号肥王，复尚楚主解忧，生三男两女：长男曰元贵靡；次曰万年，为莎车王；次曰大乐，为左大将；长女弟史为龟兹王绛宾妻；小女素光为若呼翕侯妻。
昭帝时，公主上书，言： 匈奴发骑田车师，车师与匈奴为一，共侵乌孙，唯天子幸救之！
汉养士马，议欲击匈奴。
会昭帝崩，宣帝初即位，公主及昆弥皆遣使上书，言： 匈奴复连发大兵侵兵乌孙，取车延、恶师地，收人民去，使使谓乌孙趣持公主来，欲隔绝汉。
昆弥愿发国半精兵，自给人马五万骑，尽力击匈奴。
唯天子出兵以救公主、昆弥。
汉兵大发十五万骑，五将军分道并出。
语在《匈奴传》。
遣校尉常惠使持节护乌孙兵，昆弥自将翕侯以下五万骑从西方人，至右谷蠡王庭，获单于父行及嫂、居次、名王、犁氵于都尉、千长、骑将以下四万级，马、牛、羊、驴、橐驼七十余万头，乌孙皆自取所虏获。
还，封惠为长罗侯。
是岁，本始三年也。
汉遣惠持金币赐乌孙贵人有功者。
元康二年，乌孙昆弥因惠上书： 愿以汉外孙元贵靡为嗣，得令复尚汉公主，结婚重亲，畔绝匈奴，原聘马、骡各千匹。
诏下公卿议，大鸿胪萧望之以为： 乌孙绝域，变故难保，不可许。
上美乌孙新立大功，又重绝故业，遣使者至乌孙，先迎取聘。
昆弥及太子、左右大将、都尉皆遣使，凡三百余人，入汉迎取少主。
上乃以乌孙主解忧弟子相夫为公主，置官属侍御百余人，舍上林中，学乌孙言。
天子自临平乐观，会匈奴使者、外国君长大角抵，设乐而遣之。使长罗侯光禄大夫惠为副，凡持节者四人，送少主至郭煌。
未出塞，闻乌孙昆弥翁归靡死，乌孙贵人共从本约，立岑陬子泥靡代为昆靡，号狂王。
惠上书： 愿留少主郭煌，惠驰至乌孙责让不立元贵靡为昆靡，还迎少主。
事下公卿，望之复以为： 乌孙持两端，难约结。
前公主在乌孙四十余年，恩爱不亲密，边竟未得安，此已事已验也。
令少主以元贵靡不立而还，信无负于夷狄，中国之福也。
少主不止，徭役将兴，其原起此。
天子从之，征还少主。
translation: 
Weng Guimi came to the throne and was named King Fei. He married Jieyou and gave birth to three sons and two daughters: the eldest son was named Yuan Guimi; the second son was named Wannian and was the king of Shache; the third son was named Dalue and was the general of Zuo; the eldest daughter was named Shi and was the wife of King Jiangbin of Qiuci; the younger daughter was named Suguang and was the wife of Ruohulinghou.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, Princess Jieyou wrote to the emperor, saying that the Xiongnu sent cavalry to farm in Cheshi, and that the Cheshi and the Xiongnu united to invade Wusun, hoping that the emperor would rescue them.
The Han Dynasty prepared soldiers and horses to attack the Xiongnu.
When Emperor Zhao died and Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne, Princess Jieyou and Kunmi both sent envoys to write, saying that the Xiongnu invaded and attacked Wusun in succession, captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places, and plundered all the local residents. He also sent an envoy to tell Wusun to send the princess to the Huns as soon as possible, hoping to destroy the relationship between Wusun and Han.
Kunmi is willing to send half of the country's elite troops and prepare 50,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu with all his strength.
I hope the emperor will send troops to rescue the princess and Kunmi as soon as possible.
The Han Dynasty sent an army of 150,000 cavalry, led by five generals.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
The Han Dynasty also sent Lieutenant Chang Hui as an envoy to protect the Wusun soldiers. Kunmi personally led a total of 50,000 knights under the Marquis of Ji to attack the Xiongnu from the west. When the Xiongnu arrived at the royal court of Yougu Li, they captured 40,000 people including Shanyu's father, sister-in-law, Juzi, Ming Wang, Ligu Duwei, Qian Chang, and cavalry generals, as well as more than 700,000 horses, cattle, sheep, donkeys, and camels. Wusun took these trophies away.
When the Han army returned home, Emperor Xuan granted Chang Hui the title of Marquis of Changluo.
This year is the third year of the original year.
The Han Dynasty also sent Chang Hui with valuable belongings and silk fabrics to be given to the nobles of Wusun who had made military exploits.
In the second year of Yuankang, Wusun Kunmi wrote to Emperor Xuan through Chang Hui, saying: I would like to make my grandson Yuan Guimi of the Han Dynasty the heir to the throne, and let him also marry a Han princess, form a double marriage, and sever ties with the Huns. I am willing to use a thousand horses and mules as a betrothal gift.
Emperor Xuan ordered ministers to discuss the matter. Xiao Wangzhi, the great emperor, thought: Wusun is located very far away and there is no guarantee that it will not change. Don't agree to their request.
Emperor Xuan admired Wusun's recent great achievements and found it difficult to sever the established marriage relationship, so he sent an envoy to Wusun to receive the betrothal gift first.
Kunmi, the crown prince, the left and right generals, and the captain sent a delegation of more than 300 people to the Han Dynasty to welcome the young princess.
Emperor Xuan took Princess Jieyou's niece and husband as the princess, and appointed more than a hundred officials, maids, etc. to live in Shanglin Garden and learn the Wusun language.
Emperor Xuan personally came to Pingganguang, met with the Huns envoys and foreign princes, performed a jiaoduan drama, music, singing and dancing, and then sent the princess to the west to marry. The envoy Chang Luohou Guanglu, the doctor Chang Hui assisted, and four people were envoys to send the young princess to Dunhuang.
Before leaving the frontier fortress, they heard that Wusun Kunmi Weng Guimi had died. According to the agreement made by Cen Zou during his lifetime, the Wusun nobles appointed Cen Zou's son Nimi as Kunmi, named Kuangwang.
Chang Hui wrote to Emperor Xuan saying: He wanted to keep the young princess in Dunhuang temporarily. Chang Hui rushed to Wusun and blamed Yuan Guimi for not appointing Yuan Guimi as Kunmi, and then took the young princess back to Chang'an.
The matter was discussed by the ministers, and Xiao Wangzhi said: "It is difficult to make a treaty with Wusun, who is headed by a rat."
Princess Jieyou has been in Wusun for more than 40 years. The relationship between the two countries is not close and the border is not peaceful. This is proved by creation.
Today, the young princess returned to Chang'an because Yuan Gui was not able to stand up. She did not feel sorry for Wusun, and it was also a blessing for the Han Dynasty.
If the young princess does not stop going to Wusun, the corvee will flourish, and this is where the roots begin.
Emperor Xuan accepted this opinion and took the young princess back to Chang'an.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
狂王复尚楚主解忧，生一男鸱靡，不与主和，又暴恶失众。
汉使卫司马魏和意、副侯任昌送侍子，公主言狂王为乌孙所患苦，易诛也。
遂谋置酒会，罢，使士拔剑击之。
剑旁下，狂王伤，上马驰去。
其子细沈瘦会兵围和意、昌及公主于赤谷城。
数月，都护郑吉发诸国兵救之，乃解去。
汉遣中郎将张遵持医药治狂王，赐金二十斤，采缯。
因收和意、昌系锁，从尉犁槛车至长安，斩之。
车骑将军长史张翁留验公主与使者谋杀狂王状，主不服，叩头谢，张翁捽主头骂詈。
主上书，翁还，坐死。
副使季都别将医养视狂王，狂王从十余骑送之。
都还，坐知狂王当诛，见便不发，下蚕室。
初，肥王翁归靡胡妇子乌就屠，狂五伤时惊，与诸翕侯俱去，居北山中，扬言母家匈奴兵来，故众归之。
后遂袭杀狂王，自立为昆弥。
汉遣破羌将军辛武贤将兵万五千人至郭煌，遣使者案行表，穿卑鞮侯井以西，欲通渠转谷，积居庐仓以讨之。
初，楚主侍者冯嫽能史书，习事，尝持汉书为公主使，行赏赐于城郭诸国，敬信之，号曰冯夫人。
为乌孙右大将妻，右大将与乌就屠相爱，都护郑吉使冯夫人说乌就屠，以汉兵方出，必见灭，不如降。
乌就屠恐，曰： 愿得小号。
宣帝征冯夫人，自问状。
遣谒者竺次、期门甘延寿为副，送冯夫人。
冯夫人锦车持节，诏乌就屠诣长罗侯赤谷城，立元贵靡为大昆弥，乌就屠为小昆弥，皆赐印绶。
破羌将军不出塞还。
后乌就屠不尽归诸翕侯民众，汉复遣长罗侯惠将三校屯赤谷，因为分别其人民地界，大昆弥户六万余，小昆弥户四万余，然众心皆附小昆弥。
translation: 
The mad king married Princess Jieyou again and gave birth to a son named Ou Mi. The mad king was at odds with the princess and was cruel and unpopular.
The Han Dynasty sent Wei Si Ma Wei Heyi and deputy candidate Ren Chang to send a servant to Wusun. The princess told the Wusun people that the mad king was dissatisfied and said it would be easy to get rid of him.
So, they planned to have someone kill the mad king with a sword at the cocktail party.
The sword failed to cut accurately, and the mad king was injured, so he mounted his horse and fled.
His son Tao Shenshou led his troops to surround Princess Wei Heyi, Ren Chang and Heyou in Chigu City.
A few months later, Zheng Ji, the governor of the Western Regions, sent troops from nearby countries to rescue him and bundled up Shen Shou and fled.
The Han court sent Zhang Zun, a lieutenant general, to bring medicine to the mad king to treat his injuries. He also gave the mad king twenty kilograms of gold and various silk fabrics.
They also arrested Wei Heyi and Ren Chang, who were transported from Yuli to Chang'an in a prison car and beheaded.
The chariot general Shi Zhangweng stayed in Chigu to investigate the murder of the mad king by Princess Jieyou, Wei Heyi and Ren Chang. The princess was dissatisfied, kowtowed to Zhang Weng, and refused to plead guilty. Zhang Weng threw the princess's hair and cursed.
The princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, and Zhang Weng returned to Chang'an and was executed.
Ji Du, the deputy envoy of the Han Dynasty, led others to treat and nurse the mad king's injuries. When he returned to Chang'an, the mad king led more than ten knights to see him off.
Ji Du returned to Chang'an, knowing that the mad king was guilty and should be beheaded, but failed to get rid of the mad king and was castrated.
When the mad king was injured, Wujiutu, the son of Fat King Weng Guimi's Huns wife, fled to the northern mountains with all the princes, threatening that the Huns soldiers from his grandmother's house were coming soon, so many people surrendered to him.
Later, he attacked and killed the mad king and established himself as Kunmi.
The Han Dynasty ordered the Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian to lead 15,000 troops to Dunhuang. He sent people to measure the terrain, set up markers, dig the Beiqianhou Well, and open a canal to the west to prepare for transporting grain and building warehouses to attack Wujiutu.
Princess Jieyou originally had a waiter named Feng Liao, who knew history books and was familiar with the affairs of the Western Regions. She used to serve as an envoy of the Han Dynasty to various countries in the Western Regions to reward kings and nobles. She was respected and trusted by various countries and was known as Mrs. Feng.
Later, he married the wife of Wusun Youdajiang, who had a close relationship with Wujiutu. At this time, Zheng Ji, the governor of the Western Regions, sent Mrs. Feng to persuade Wujiutu, saying: The Han Dynasty is sending troops to the Western Regions, Wusun will be destroyed, so it is better to surrender early.
Wujiitu was very frightened and said: I just want to keep the title of Xiao Kunmi.
Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty summoned Mrs. Feng to Chang'an to personally inquire about Wusun's situation.
Later, he sent the visitors Zhu Ci and Qimen Gan Yanshou as deputy envoys to send Mrs. Feng back to Wusun.
Mrs. Feng rode in a brocade chariot and served as the official envoy of the Han Dynasty. She conveyed Emperor Xuan's edict and ordered Wujiitu to be sent to Luohou Changhui, the mayor of Chigu City.
Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian returned to Chang'an before leaving the fortress.
Later, the Wujiu Massacre failed to return all the people of the Xihous to their original owners. The Han Dynasty sent Changluohou Changhui to lead three schools to farm in Chigu, and divided the ruling areas within Wusun. Dakunmi had more than 60,000 households, and Xiaokunmi had more than 40,000 households. However, people's hearts were in favor of Xiaokunmi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
元贵靡、鸱靡皆病死，公主上书言年老土思，愿得归骸骨，葬汉地。
天子闵而迎之，公主与乌孙男女三人俱来至京师。
是岁，甘露三年也。
时年且七十，赐以公主田宅、奴婢，奉养甚厚，朝见仪比公主。
后二岁卒，三孙因留守坟墓云。
元贵靡子星靡代为大昆弥，弱，冯夫人上书，愿使乌孙镇抚星靡。
汉遣之，卒百人送焉。
都护韩宣奏，乌孙大吏、大禄、大监皆可以赐金印紫绶，以尊辅大昆弥，汉许之。
后都护韩宣复奏，星靡怯弱，可免，更以季父左大将乐代为昆弥，汉不许。
后段会宗为都护，招还亡畔，安定之。
星靡死，子雌栗靡代。
小昆弥乌就屠死。
子拊离代立，为弟日贰所杀。
汉遣使者立拊离子安日为小昆弥。
日贰亡，阻康居。
汉徙已校屯姑墨，欲候便讨焉。
安日使贵人姑莫匿等三人诈亡从日贰，刺杀之。
都护廉褒赐姑莫匿等金人二十斤，缯三百匹。
后安日为降民所杀，汉立其弟末振将代。
时大昆弥雌栗靡健，翕侯皆畏服之，告民牧马畜无使人牧，国中大安和翁归靡时。
小昆弥末振将恐为所并，使贵人乌日领诈降刺杀雌栗靡。
汉欲以兵讨之而未能，遣中郎将段会宗持金币与都护图方略，立雌栗靡季父公主孙伊秩靡为大昆弥。
汉没入小昆弥侍子在京师者。
久之，大昆弥翕侯难栖杀末振将，末振将兄安日子安犁靡代为小昆弥。
汉恨不自诛末振将，复使段会宗即斩其太子番丘。
还，赐爵关内侯。
是岁，元延二年也。
会宗以翕侯难栖杀末振将，虽不指为汉，合于讨贼，奏以为坚守都尉。
责大禄、大吏、大监以雌栗靡见杀状，夺金印紫绶，更与铜墨云。
末振将弟卑爰疐本共谋杀大昆弥，将众八万余口北附康居，谋欲借兵兼并两昆弥。
两昆弥畏之，亲倚都护。
哀帝元寿二年，大昆弥伊秩靡与单于并入朝，汉以为荣。
至元始中，卑爰疐杀乌日领以自效，汉封为归义侯。
两昆弥皆弱，卑爰疐侵陵，都护孙建袭杀之。
自乌孙分立两昆弥后，汉用忧劳，且无宁岁。
姑墨国，王治南城，去长安八千一百五十里。
translation: 
Yuan Guimi and Juan Mi both died of illness. The princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying that she was homesick in old age and hoped to die in Han.
Emperor Xuan took pity on her and sent someone to welcome her and her three grandchildren to Chang'an.
This year is the third year of Ganlu, and the princess is nearly seventy years old.
Emperor Xuan gave the princess fields, houses, slaves, etc., and she was well supported. The etiquette for meeting the emperor was the same as that for the emperor's own princess.
Two years later, Princess Jieyou passed away, and her two grandchildren stayed in Chang'an to guard the tomb.
Xingmi, the son of Yuanguimi, took the place of Dakunmi. He was still young. Mrs. Feng wrote to Emperor Xuan, hoping to send Wusun as an envoy to assist Xingmi.
Emperor Xuan sent more than a hundred people to escort Mrs. Feng to Wusun.
At first, Han Xuan, the Protector of the Western Regions, reported to Emperor Xuan and suggested that Wusun's officials, officials, and eunuchs be given gold seals and purple ribbons so that they could assist Da Kunmi. Emperor Xuan agreed.
Later, Han Xuan wrote that Xingmi was weak and could remove Da Kunmi and let his uncle Zuo Dajiang Le replace him as Da Kunmi. Emperor Xuan did not agree.
Later, Duan Huizong became the protector of the Western Regions, recruiting the rebellious population of Wusun, and the society was stabilized.
Xing Mi died, and his son Li Mi became Da Kun Mi.
Xiao Kunmi Wu was slaughtered to death, and his son Kaoli was named Xiao Kunmi.
Kaoli was killed by his younger brother Ri Er.
The Han Dynasty sent envoys to Wusun to establish Gaoli's son Anri as Xiaokunmi.
On the second day, he fled to Kangju.
The Han Dynasty moved Jixiaowei to station in Gumo, waiting for an opportunity to attack Japan.
Anri sent Gu Mo Ni and three other people to pretend to be defectors, defected to Yue Er, and assassinated Yue Er.
Lian Baobao, the Protector of the Western Regions, gave Gumon Ni and others twenty kilograms of gold and three hundred bolts of silk fabrics.
Later, Anri was killed by the surrendered people, and the Han Dynasty appointed Anri's younger brother Mo Zhen as Xiao Kunmi.
At this time, the great Kun Mi female Li Mi was strong and vigorous, and all the princes were afraid of him and obeyed him. The Linghous informed the people not to enter the herd area in Kunmi when herding horses and livestock to avoid confusion. The country is very peaceful, just like when Weng Guimi.
General Mo Zhen of Xiao Kunmi was afraid of being annexed by Da Kunmi, so he sent the nobleman Wu Ri to surrender to Feli Mi and assassinate him.
The Han Dynasty wanted to send troops to attack General Mo Zhen, but when he failed to send troops, he sent General Duan Huizong to the Western Regions with gold treasures and silk to make plans with the governor, and appointed Yi Zhimi, the uncle of Fei Li Mi and the grandson of Princess Jieyou, as the great Kunmi.
The Han Dynasty made Xiao Kunmi's servant in Chang'an an official slave.
A long time later, Xihou Nanqi of Dakunmi killed General Mo Zhen, and Anlimi, son of Anri of Xiaokunmi who was originally killed, was established as Xiaokunmi.
The Han Dynasty regretted not being able to kill General Mo Zhen himself, so he ordered Duan Huizong to kill General Mo Zhen's prince Fanqiu.
Duan Huizong returned to Chang'an and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei.
This year is the second year of Yuanyan of Emperor Cheng.
Duan Huizong believed that Linghou Nanqi's killing of Mo Zhenjiang was not for the Han Dynasty, but it was in line with the Han Dynasty's purpose of punishing Mo Zhenjiang, so he petitioned Emperor Cheng to make him a strong guard.
The Han Dynasty blamed Da Lu, Da Li, Da Jian and other officials for being responsible for the murder of Li Mi. They took away their gold-seal and purple ribbons and replaced them with bronze-seal and ink ribbons.
Bei Yuanxun, the younger brother of Mo Zhenjiang, was originally involved in the murder of Da Kunmi's female Li Mi. Later, he led more than 80,000 people to the north and attached himself to Kangju, hoping to use Kangju's troops to annex Dakunmi and Xiaoyu Kunmi.
Both Kunmi were afraid of being humble and honest, so they attached themselves to the protector.
In the second year of Emperor Ai's reign, Dakun Miyi Zhimi and the Xiongnu Chanyu came to Chang'an to pay homage to Emperor Ai. The Han Dynasty felt it was an honor.
During the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, Bei Yuan directly killed Wu Yueling to serve the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty named him Marquis of Guiyi.
Both the big and small Kunmi were weak. Bei Yuanting kept attacking the two Kunmi, and Sun Jian, the guardian of the army, attacked and killed Bei Yuanzhi.
Since Wusun separated the two Kunmi, the Han Dynasty sometimes appeased and sometimes suppressed, and there was no peace for a year.
In the Gumo Kingdom, the king governed Nancheng and extended it to Chang'an for eight thousand one hundred and fifty miles.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
户二千二百，口二万四千五百，胜兵四千五百人。
姑墨侯、辅国侯、都尉、左右将、左右骑君各一人，译长二人。
东至都护治所二千二十一里，南至于阗马行十五日，北与乌孙接。
出铜、铁、雌黄。
东通龟兹六百七十里。
王莽时，姑墨王丞杀温宿王，并其国。
温宿国，王治温宿城，去长安八千三百五十里，户二千二百，口八千四百，胜兵千五百人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉、左右骑君、译长各二人。
东至都护治所二千三百八十里，西至尉头三百里，北至乌孙赤谷六百一十里。土地物类所有与鄯善诸国同。
东通姑墨二百七十里。
龟兹国，王治延城，去长安七千四百八十里。
户六千九百七十，口八万一千三百一十七，胜兵二万一千七十六人。
大都尉丞、辅国侯、安国侯、击胡侯、却胡都尉、击车师都尉、左右将、左右都尉、左右骑君、左右力辅君各一人，东西南北部千长各二人，却胡君三人，译长四人。
南与精绝、东南与且末、西南与杅弥、北与乌孙、西与姑墨接。
能铸冶，有铅。
东至都护治所乌垒城三百五十里。
乌垒，户百一十，口千二百，胜兵三百人。
城都尉、译长各一人。
与都护同治。
其南三百三十里至渠犁。
渠梨，城都尉一人，户百三十，口千四百八十，胜兵百五十人。
东北与尉犁、东南与且末、南与精绝接。
西有河，至龟兹五百八十里。
自武帝初通西域、置校尉，屯田渠犁。
是时，军旅连出，师行三十二年，海内虚耗。
征和中，贰师将军李广利以军降匈奴。
上既悔远征伐，而搜粟都尉桑弘羊与丞相御史奏言： 故轮台东捷枝、渠犁皆故国，地广，饶水草，有溉田五千顷以上，处温和，田美，可益通沟渠，种五谷，与中国同时孰。
translation: 
There are 3,500 households, a population of 24,500, and an army of 4,500.
There are one Gumohou, Fuguohou, Duwei, left and right generals, left and right cavalry monarchs, and two translators.
It takes 2,021 miles to reach Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor. It takes fifteen days to reach Khotan in the south and connect with Wusun in the north.
Produces copper, iron, orpiment and other minerals.
It is six hundred and seventy miles from Cambodia to Kucha.
During the reign of Wang Mang, Wang Cheng of Gumo killed King Wensu and annexed the Wensu Kingdom.
In the Wensu Kingdom, the king governed Wensu City, which was eight thousand three hundred and fifty miles east of Chang'an. There are 2,200 households, a population of 8,400, and an army of 1,500.
There are two auxiliary princes, two generals on the left and right, two captains on the left and right, two knights on the left and right, and two chief translators.
It extends 2,380 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Protectorate, 300 miles to Weitou in the west, and 610 miles to Wusunchi Valley in the north. The land and products are the same as those of the Shanshan countries.
It was bound to Gumo for two hundred and seventy miles.
In the Kingdom of Qiuci, the king governed Yancheng, which was 7,480 miles east of Chang'an.
There are 6,970 households, a population of 81,317, and an army of 21,076.
There are one each of Da Du Wei Cheng, Fu Guo Hou, An Guo Hou, Chu Hu Hou, Que Hu Du Wei, Cha Cha Shi Du Wei, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right cavalry lords, left and right auxiliary lords, two each from the east, west, south and north Qianchang, three from Quehu Jun, and four interpreters.
It is connected to Jingjue in the south, Qiemo in the southeast, Ganmi in the southwest, Wusun in the north, and Gumo in the west.
There are simple casting and metallurgical techniques, and lead is also produced.
It was sent to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, three hundred and fifty miles away.
Wulei has 110 households, a population of 1,200, and an army of 300.
There is one city captain and one interpreter.
Together with the Protector of Youyue, he governed Wuleiyue.
Three hundred and thirty miles south to Quli.
Quli has a city captain, one hundred and thirty households, a population of one thousand four hundred and eighty, and an army of one hundred and fifty.
It is connected to Yuli in the northeast, Qiemo in the southeast, and Jingjue in the south.
There is a river in the west, five hundred and eighty miles to Qiuci.
From the time when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty opened the Western Regions, he set up school captains to plow and farm fields in Ququ.
At this time, the Han Dynasty continued to send troops for thirty-two years, and its national power was seriously depleted.
During the Zhenghe period, General Li Guang of the Second Division led his army to surrender to the Huns.
Emperor Wu regretted the expedition. At this time, Sang Hongyang, the captain of Susu, together with the prime minister and the imperial censor, told Emperor Wu: Luntai, with its beams of branches and ditches and plows, was the place where the country was founded in the past. The land is vast and the water and grass are rich. There are more than 5,000 hectares of irrigated fields. The climate is mild, the fields are fertile, and irrigation is convenient. Grains grown there mature at the same time as those in the Central Plains.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
臣愚以为可遣屯田卒诣故轮台以东，置校尉三人分护，各举图地形，通利沟渠，务使以时益种五谷，张掖、酒泉遣骑假司马为斥候，属校尉，事有便宜，因骑置以闻。
田一岁，有积谷，募民壮健有累重敢徙者诣田所，就畜积为本业，益垦溉田，稍筑列亭，连城而西，以威西国，辅乌孙，为便。
臣谨遣征事臣昌分部行边，严敕太守、都尉明烽火，选士马，谨斥候，蓄茭草。
愿陛下遣使使西国，以安其意。臣昧死请。
上乃下诏，深陈既往之悔，曰：
前有司奏，欲益民赋三十助边用，是重困老弱孤独也。
而今又请遣卒田轮台。
轮台西于车师千余里，前开陵侯击车师时，危须、尉犁、楼兰六国子弟在京师者皆先归，发畜食迎汉军，又自发兵，凡数万人，王各自将，共围车师，降其王。
诸国兵便罢，力不能复至道上食汉军。
汉军破城，食至多，然士自载不足以竟师，强者尽食畜产，羸者道死数千人。
朕发酒泉驴、橐驼负食，出玉门迎军。
吏卒起张掖，不甚远，然尚厮留其众。
曩者，朕之不明，以军候弘上书言 匈奴缚马前后足，置城下，驰言 秦人，我匄若马  ，又汉使者久留不还，故兴遣贰师将军，欲以为使者威重也。
古者卿大夫与谋，参以蓍龟，不吉不行。
乃者以缚马书遍视丞相、御史、二千石、诸大夫、郎为文学者，乃至郡属国都尉成忠、赵破奴等，皆以 虏自缚其马，不祥甚哉！
或以为 欲以见强，夫不足者视人有余。
translation: 
The neighboring country lacks iron tools such as awls and precious gold and colorful silk ribbons. Mo Mo can use these things to exchange for their grain to supply the field soldiers, so they don't have to worry about food shortages. The ministers and others thought that Mo could send soldiers to Yuan Luntai to consolidate the farmland, and set up three divisions of school captains to protect the troops. Let them draw maps of their respective areas, build irrigation ditches, and plant grain according to the seasons every year. Zhangye and Jiuquan counties each sent fake commanders and soldiers to look out for those who were working in the fields. Riding a fake Sima is within the control of the military commander in the field. If there is an important situation, you can use the post horse to report to the emperor.
If there is food stored in the fields for a year, people who are healthy and willing to migrate can be recruited to the farm. Using the stored food as a basis, they can expand the irrigated field area, build more pavilions, connect the cities to the west, and control the western countries with power, which is very beneficial to assisting the Wusun Kingdom.
The ministers and others can send the Chengchang Branch of the Expeditionary Affairs Bureau to patrol the western border areas, and strictly order the relevant prefects and captains to prepare beacon fires, select soldiers and horses, be cautious and vigilant, and store grain and grass.
I hope your Majesty will send envoys to Western countries so that they will not be uneasy because of fear of the Huns. I will risk my life to speak about this matter.
Emperor Wu issued a Shao Shu and deeply reflected on his past mistakes.
Shaoshu said: In the past, the relevant departments petitioned to increase the civil tax by thirty yuan per person to provide for frontier expenses. This is exacerbating the hardships of the elderly, weak and lonely population.
Today, please send soldiers to Luntai to farm.
Luntai is more than a thousand miles west of Cheshi. When Kailinghou attacked Cheshi, Weixu, Yuli, Loulan and other disciples from the Six Kingdoms in Chang'an returned home first to transport grain and livestock to meet the Han army. Tens of thousands of soldiers from various countries, all led by the king himself, jointly surrounded the charioteer and forced the charioteer king to surrender.
The soldiers from various countries in the Western Region were exhausted and unable to go to the road to supply food to the Han army.
When the Han army captured Cheshi City, they had a lot of food, but they brought it with them and ate it all before they could return to Chang'an. The strong ones ate livestock, while the sick and weak ones died on the roads in thousands.
I sent donkeys and camels from Jiuquan County to carry grain out of Yumen Pass to meet the army.
He also ordered Zhangye County to send officials and soldiers to meet him. The journey was not very far, but there were many stragglers and stranded people.
Once upon a time, I was confused because the military commander Hong sent a letter saying: The Huns tied the front and rear hooves of the horse, put them at the foot of the Great Wall, and rode on the horse shouting: Qin people, I will divide the horses for you. In addition, the Han Dynasty envoys were detained by the Xiongnu for a long time and could not return. Therefore, I sent the general of the Second Division to attack in order to enhance the prestige of the Han envoys.
In ancient times, when officials were involved in making decisions, they would refer to divination and not do anything if it was unlucky.
At that time, I also showed the horse-tying book to the prime minister, the imperial censor, Erqian Shi, various officials, and Lang Wei. I even read it to the commander-in-chief of the county and vassal state, Chengzhong, and Tangponu. They all said that it was very unlucky for the Huns to tie their own horses!
Some people also think that the Huns wanted to show their strength, just like the poor pretending to be rich.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
《易》之卦得《大过》，爻在九五，匈奴困败。
公军方士、太史治星望气，及太卜龟蓍，皆以为吉，匈奴必破，时不可再得也。
又曰： 北伐行将，于鬴山必克。 卦诸将，贰师最吉。
故朕亲发贰师下鬴山，诏之必毋深入。
今计谋卦兆皆反缪。
重合侯得虏候者，言： 闻汉军当来，匈奴使巫埋羊牛所出诸道及水上以诅军。
单于遗天子马裘，常使巫祝之。
缚马者，诅军事也。 又卜 汉军一将不吉 。
匈奴常言： 汉极大，然不能饥渴，失一狼，走千羊。
乃者贰师败，军士死略离散，悲痛常在朕心。
今请远田轮台，欲起亭隧，是扰劳天下，非所以优民也。
今朕不忍闻。
大鸿胪等又议，欲募囚徒送匈奴使者，明封侯之赏以报忿，五伯所弗能为也。
且匈奴得汉降者，常提掖搜索，问以所闻。
今边塞未正，阑出不禁，障候长吏使卒猎兽，以皮肉为利，卒苦而烽火乏，失亦上集不得，后降者来，若捕生口虏，乃知之。
当今务在禁苛暴，止擅赋，力本农，修马复令，以补缺，毋乏武备而已。
郡国二千石各上进畜马方略补边状，与计对。
由是不复出军。
而封丞相车千秋为富民侯，以明休息，思富养民也。
初，贰师将军李广利击大宛，还过杅弥，杅弥遣太子赖丹为质于龟兹。
translation: 
I once consulted the "Book of Changes" and found the hexagram "Great Encounter". The line is nine and five, which indicates that the Xiongnu will be defeated.
The alchemists and Taishi who were picked up by the bus looked at the celestial phenomena and divined fortune-telling, and they all thought it was an auspicious sign, and the Xiongnu would definitely be defeated. It was a rare opportunity.
He also said: If you lead the army in the Northern Expedition, you will definitely overcome the Nitrate Mountain. According to the divination of the generals, the second division general will be the most auspicious.
Therefore, I personally sent General Second Division to attack Fushan and ordered him not to go deep.
Today, it seems that these strategies and omens are contrary to the situation and are really wrong.
Marquis Chonghe captured a Xiongnu detective and said: "I heard that the Han army was coming soon, so the Xiongnu ordered wizards to bury sheep and cattle on the roads and rivers that the Han army must pass through, in order to curse the Han army."
The horses and furs given to the emperor by the Shanyu were all cursed by wizards.
Tying a horse's front and rear hooves is a curse that the Han army will be defeated. It is also a divination, which means that a general of the Han army will be unlucky.
The Xiongnu often said that the Han Dynasty was great, but the Han people could not bear hunger and thirst. Lost a wolf. Go dry sheep.
In the past, when the general of the Second Division failed, the soldiers died, the captured were captured, and the escaped fled, I often felt sad in my heart.
Today, some people suggest that when farming in distant Luntai, pavilions should be built to clear roads. This is an approach that disturbs the toiling world and does not benefit the people.
Today I cannot bear to listen to Luntai Tuntian.
Da Honglu and others discussed again, planning to recruit prisoners to escort the Huns envoy back, and clearly told him to make him a marquis and let him assassinate Shan Yu.
This is a practice that even the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period would not do. Moreover, when the Huns obtained surrendered Han people, they searched them and interrogated them about what they knew.
Nowadays, the control of the border fortress is not strict, and those who leave the country without authorization cannot be prohibited. The officials who are waiting for the troops are forcing the soldiers to hunt and make profits from the skins and flesh of wild animals. The soldiers are working hard, and few people care about the beacon fires. These situations are not reported. Later, people came to surrender or captured prisoners, and we learned about these situations.
The main task now is to strictly prohibit officials from being harsh and cruel to the people, stop the government from increasing taxes without authorization, vigorously develop agricultural production, and implement horse restoration orders to supplement the needs of border defense, but it is enough to meet the needs of border defense.
The prefects and ministers of each county must report the methods of raising horses and plans to improve border defense.
Come to the capital with the officials to discuss.
From then on, the Han Dynasty no longer sent troops to fight. At the same time, the prime minister Che Qianqiu was granted the title of Marquis of Enriching the People, to show that the implementation of the policy of recuperation and recuperation was intended to enrich the people.
At the beginning, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, attacked Dayuan and passed through Ganmi. At that time, Ganmi's crown prince Lai Dan was in Qiuci as a hostage.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
广利责电兹曰： 外国皆臣属于汉，龟兹何以得受杅弥质？
即将赖丹入至京师。
昭帝乃用桑弘羊前议，以杅弥太子赖丹为校尉，将军田轮台，轮台与渠犁地皆相连也。
龟兹贵人姑翼谓其王曰： 赖丹本臣属吾国，今佩汉印绶来，迫吾国而田，必为害。
王即杀赖丹，而上书谢汉，汉未能征。
宣帝时，长罗侯常惠使乌孙还，便宜发诸国兵，合五万人攻龟兹，责以前杀校尉赖丹。
龟兹王谢曰： 乃我先王时为贵人姑翼所误，我无罪。
执姑翼诣惠，惠斩之。
时乌孙公主遣女来至京师学鼓琴，汉遣侍郎乐奉送主女，过龟兹。
龟兹前遣人至乌孙求公主女，未还。
会女过龟兹，龟兹王留不遣，复使使报公主，主许之。
后公主上书，愿令女比宗室入朝，而龟兹王绛宾亦受其夫人，上书言得尚汉外孙为昆弟，愿与公主女俱入朝。
元康元年，遂来朝贺。王及夫人皆赐印绶。
夫人号称公主，赐以车骑旗鼓，歌吹数十人，绮绣杂缯琦珍凡数千万。
留且一年，厚赠送之。
后数来朝贺，乐汉衣服制度，归其国，治宫室，作檄道周卫，出入传呼，撞钟鼓，如汉家仪。外国胡人皆曰： 驴非驴，马非马，若龟兹王，所谓骡也。
绛宾死，其子丞德自谓汉外孙，成、哀帝时往来尤数，汉遇之亦甚亲密。
东通尉犁六百五十里。
尉犁国，王治尉犁城，去长安六千七百五十里。
户千二百，口九千六百，胜兵二千人。
尉犁侯、安世侯、左右将、左右都尉、击胡君各一人，译长二人。
西至都护治所三百里，南与鄯善、且未接。
translation: 
Li Guangli blamed Qiuci and said: All foreign countries surrendered to the Han Dynasty, why did Qiuci accept Ganmi's proton?
He took Lai Dan to Chang'an.
Emperor Zhao followed Sang Hongyang's previous suggestion, appointed Lai Dan as the captain, and led his troops to farm in Luntai, which was connected to the plowed fields.
Guyi, a nobleman of Qiuci, said to King Qiuci: Lai Dan originally belonged to our country. Today, he comes wearing the seal and ribbon of the Han Dynasty and comes close to our farmland, which will definitely harm our country.
King Qiuci killed Laidan and wrote a letter to the Han Dynasty to express his guilt. Han failed to inflict punishment.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Changluo Hou Changhui was sent to Wusun as an envoy. On his way back, he took the opportunity to send a total of 50,000 soldiers from various countries to attack Qiuci, condemning the killing of school captain Lai Dan.
King Qiuci confessed and said: "My late king was misled by the noble Gu Yi when he was still alive. I am not guilty."
He captured Guyi and gave it to Chang Hui, who beheaded Guyi.
At that time, Princess Jieyou sent her daughter to Chang'an to learn drums and harps. The Han Dynasty sent its minister Le Feng to escort the princess back to Wusun and passed by Qiuci.
King Qiuci once sent people to Wusun to ask for the princess's daughter, but he has not returned yet.
It happened that the princess passed by Qiuci, so the king of Qiuci kept the princess and refused to let her go. He also sent an envoy to Wusun to report to the princess, and the princess agreed.
Later, the princess wrote to Emperor Xuan, hoping that her daughter would enter the imperial court with the royal family; King Jiangbin of Qiuci also loved his wife, and wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying that he could marry the granddaughter of the Han Dynasty as his son-in-law, and hoped that he could enter the imperial court with the princess's daughter.
In the first year of Yuankang, King Qiuci and his wife came to congratulate him and were both given seals and ribbons.
The lady was called a princess, and Emperor Xuan gave her carriages, horses, drums, dozens of people singing, dancing and making music, and silk treasures worth tens of millions of dollars.
He kept it for a year and sent many gifts back to Qiuci.
Princess Qiuci came to Chang'an several times to congratulate her. She likes the clothes and various systems of the Han Dynasty. After returning to the country, he built palaces, set up sanitation on forbidden roads, called people when going in and out, and beat bells and drums, just like the etiquette of the Han Dynasty. Foreign barbarians all say: A donkey is not a donkey, and a horse is not a horse, just like King Qiuci, he is a mule.
After Jiangbin died, his son Chengde claimed to be Mo's grandson. During the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, he traveled to Chang'an more frequently, and the Han Dynasty treated him very closely.
It is six hundred and fifty miles from Qiuchian to Yuli.
In the country of Yuli, the king governed the city of Yuli, which was six thousand seven hundred and fifty miles away from Chang'an.
There are 1,200 households, a population of 9,600, and an army of 2,000.
There was one each of Marquis Weili, Marquis Anshi, left and right generals, left and right captains, and Jun Hu, and two translators came in.
It is 300 miles from Youqiu Duhuzhi Dan Softball in the west, and connected with Qiancha and Danyuan in the south.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
危须国，王治危须城，去长安七千二百九十里。
户七百，口四千九百，胜兵二千人。
击胡侯、击胡都尉、左右将、左右都尉、左右骑君、击胡君、译长各一人。
西至都护治所五百里，至焉耆百里。
焉耆国，王治员渠城，去长安七千三百里。
户四千，口三万二千一百，胜兵六千人。
击胡侯、却胡侯、辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉、击胡左右君、击车师君、归义车师君各一人，击胡都尉、击胡君各二人，译长三人。
西南至都护治所四百里南至尉犁百里，北与乌孙接。
近海水多鱼。
乌贪訾离国，王治于娄谷，去长安万三百三十里。
户四十一，口二百三十一，胜兵五十七人。
辅国侯、左右都尉各一人。
东与单桓、南与且弥、西与乌孙接。
卑陆国，王治天山东乾当国，去长安八千六百八十里。
户二百二十七，口千三百八十七，胜兵四百二十二人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉、左右译长各一人。
西南至都护治所千二百八十七里。
卑陆后国，王治番渠类谷，去长安八千七百一十里。
户四百六十二，口千一百三十七，胜兵三百五十人。
辅国侯、都尉、译长各一人，将二人。
东与郁立师、北与匈奴、西与劫国、南与车师接。
郁立师国，王治内咄谷，去长安八千八百三十里。
户百九十，口千四百四十五，胜兵三百三十一人。
辅国侯、左右都尉、译长各一人，东与车师后城长、西与卑陆、北与匈奴接。
单桓国，王治单桓城，去长安八千八百七十里。
户二十七，口百九十四，胜兵四十五人。
辅国侯、将、左右都尉、译长各一人。
蒲类国，王治天山西疏榆谷，去长安八千三百六十里。
户三百二十五，口二千三十二，胜兵七百九十九人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉各一人。
西南至都护治所千三百八十七里。
蒲类后国，王去长安八千六百三十国。
户百，口千七十，胜兵三百三十四人，辅国侯、将、左右都尉、译长各一人。
translation: 
In Weixutian, the king governed Weixucheng, which was seven thousand two hundred and ninety miles east to Kuangxuan.
There are 700 households, 4,900 people, and 2,000 troops.
There is one person each for attacking Hu Hou, attacking Hu Duwei, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right cavalry kings, attacking Hu Jun, and interpreter chief.
From the west to Wuken, the headquarters of the Western Region Protectorate, it is more than five hundred miles, and to Ogshi, it is one hundred miles.
In the Yanqi Kingdom, the king governed Qucheng and was sent to Chang'an for seven thousand three hundred miles.
There are 4,000 households, a population of 32,100, and an army of 6,000.
There are one person each for attacking Huhou, Quehuhou, Fu Guohou, left and right generals, left and right captains, attacking Hu Youjun, attacking Che Shijun, and Guiyi Cheshijun, two each for attacking Hu Duwei and attacking Hu Jun, and three interpreters.
It is four hundred miles from the Duhu Administration Office in the southwest, one hundred miles from Yuli in the south, and connects with Wusun in the north.
There are many fish in the nearby sea water.
Wu Tanzi left the country, and the king ruled in Lou Valley, 10,330 miles east of Chang'an.
There are forty-one households, a population of two hundred and thirty-one, and an army of fifty-seven.
There is one auxiliary prince and one captain each on the left and right.
Shu connects with Shanhuan, south with Qiemi, and west with Wusun.
In the country of Beilu, the king governed the eastern stems of Yushan Mountain and cultivated them for eight thousand six hundred and eighty miles.
There are 227 households, a population of 1,387, and an army of 422.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, one left and right captain, and one left and right translator.
One thousand two hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the Hou Kingdom of Beilu, the king controlled the canals and cultivated grains, extending 8,710 miles east to Chang'an.
There are 462 households, a population of 1,137, and an army of 350.
There are one auxiliary prince, one captain, one chief translator, and two generals.
Shu is connected with Yulishi, the Xiongnu in the north, Jieguo in the west, and Cheshi in the south.
Yu established his country, and the king ruled the inner Danyang carp, which was sent to Xingsan for eight thousand eight hundred and thirty miles.
There are 190 households, a population of 1,445, and an army of 331.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right captain, and one interpreter. The beam is connected to Cheshihoucheng Chang, to the west is Huanglu, and to the north is Licu.
In the Shanhuan Kingdom, the king governed Shanhuan City, which was 8,870 miles away from Chang'an.
There are twenty-seven households, a population of one hundred and ninety-four, and an army of forty-five.
There are one auxiliary prince, one general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.
In the Pu Lei Kingdom, the king ruled over Shuyu Valley in the west of Tianshan Mountain and was sent to Chang'an for eight thousand three hundred and sixty miles.
There are 325 households, a population of 2,032, and an army of 799.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, and one left and right captain.
It is one thousand three hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the kingdom of Puleihou, the king ruled eight thousand six hundred and thirty miles to the east of Xingzhi.
There are one hundred households, a population of one thousand and seventy, and an army of three hundred and thirty-four. There are one auxiliary prince, one general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
西且弥国，王治天山东于大谷，去长安八千六百七十里。
户三百三十二，口千九百二十六，胜兵七百三十八人。
西且弥侯、左右将、左右骑君各一人。
西南至都护治所千四百八十七里。
东且弥国，王治天山东兑虚谷，去长安八千二百五十里。
户百九十一，口千九百四十八，胜兵五百七十二人。
东且弥侯、左右都尉各一人。
西南至都护治所千五百八十七里。
劫国，王治天山东丹渠谷，去长安八千五百七十里。
户九十九，口五百，胜兵百一十五人。
辅国侯、都尉、译长各一人。
西南至都护治所千四百八十七里。
狐胡国，王治车师柳谷，去长安八千二百里。
户五十五，口二百六十四，胜兵四十五人。
辅国侯、左右都尉各一人。
西至都护治所千一百四十七里，至焉耆七百七十里。
山国，王去长安七千一百七十里。
户四百五十，口五千，胜兵千人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉、译长各一人。
西至尉犁二百四十里，西北至焉耆百六十里，西至危须二百六十里，东南与鄯善、且末接。
山出铁，民出居，寄田籴谷于焉耆、危须。
车师前国，王治交河城。河水分流绕城下，故号交河。去长安八千一百五十里。
户七百，口六千五十，胜兵千八百六十五人。
辅国侯、安国侯、左右将、都尉、归汉都尉、车师君、通善君、乡善君各一人，译长二人。
西南至都护治所千八百七里，至焉耆八百三十五里。
车师后国，王治务涂谷，去长安八千九百五十里。户五百九十五，口四千七百七十四，胜兵千八百九十人。
击胡侯、左右将、左右都尉、道民君、译长各一人。
西南至都护治所千二百三十七里。
车师都尉国，户四十，口三百三十三，胜兵八十四人。
车师后城长国，户百五十四，口九百六十，胜兵二百六十人。
translation: 
To the west is the kingdom of Mi, and the king governs Wangtai Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain. In the east, it reaches Danshi eight thousand and six hundred and seventy miles.
There are 332 households, a population of 1,926, and an army of 738.
There are the Marquis of Xiqie Mi, one general on the left and right, and one riding monarch on the left and right.
One thousand four hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Imperial Guard Office.
In the east of the country, the king governed Danlu Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain, and he was as far away as day and night for eight thousand two hundred and fifty miles.
There are 191 households, a population of 1,948, and an army of 572.
Youshujimihou and one captain each on the left and right.
It is one thousand five hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
During the robbery of the country, the king governed the Danqu Valley in the east of Yushan Mountain, extending 8,570 miles east to Chang'an.
There are ninety-nine households, a population of five hundred, and an army of one hundred and fifteen.
There is one auxiliary prince, one captain, and one interpreter.
One thousand four hundred and eighty-seven miles from the southwest to the Imperial Guard Office.
In the Huhu Kingdom, the king's charioteer, Liu Gu, was eight thousand two hundred miles east of Danxuan.
There are fifty-five households, a population of two hundred and sixty-four, and an army of forty-five.
There is one auxiliary prince and one captain each on the left and right.
One thousand one hundred and forty-seven miles to the west of Duhu Zhizong, and seven hundred and seventy miles to Niezhi.
Shanguo, 7,170 miles from Chang'an to the east.
There are 450 households, a population of 5,000, and an army of 1,000 people.
There is one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, one left and right captain, and one interpreter.
It reaches Yuli 240 miles to the west, Yanqi 160 miles to the northwest, Weixu 260 miles to the west, and connects Shanshan and Qiemo to the southeast.
There are iron mines that produce iron. People live in the mountains and go to Yanqi and Weixu to farm and buy grain.
In the country before Cheshi, the king was on patrol, and the river branched around the city, so it was named Kuihui. It lasted eight thousand one hundred and fifty miles in the morning.
There are 700 households, a population of 6,050, and an army of 1,865.
There are one Fuguohou, Anguohou, left and right generals, Duwei, Guihan Duwei, Cheshijun, Tongshanjun, Xiangshanjun, and two translators.
From the southwest, it reaches 1,807 miles from Duhu Zhizong and 835 miles from Og Dong.
In the country behind Cheshi, the king governed Tugu, which was 8,950 miles away from Kenxuan. There were 595 households, a population of 4,774, and an army of 1,890 people.
There is one person each for attacking Hu Hou, the left and right generals, the left and right captains, the Dao Minjun, and the chief translator.
It is one thousand two hundred and thirty-seven miles from the southwest to the Capital Protectorate.
In the state of Cheshi Duwei, there are forty households, a population of three hundred and thirty-three, and an army of eighty-four.
Cheshi Houcheng Changguo has one hundred and fifty-four households, a population of nine hundred and sixty, and an army of two hundred and sixty.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
武帝天汉二年，以匈奴降者介和王为开陵侯，将楼兰国兵始击车师，匈奴遣右贤王将数万骑救之，汉兵不利，引去。
征和四年，遣重合侯马通将四万骑击匈奴，道过车师北，复遣开陵侯将楼兰、尉犁、危须凡六国兵别击车师，勿令得遮重合侯。
诸国兵共围车师，车师王降服，臣属汉。
昭帝时，匈奴复使四千骑田车师。
宣帝即位，遣五将将兵击匈奴，车师田者惊去，车师复通于汉。
匈奴怒，召其太子军宿，欲以为质。
军宿，焉耆外孙，不欲质匈奴，亡走焉耆。车师王更立子乌贵为太子。
及乌贵立为王，与匈奴结婚姻，教匈奴遮汉道通乌孙者。
地节二年，汉遣侍郎郑吉、校尉司马憙将免刑罪人田渠犁，积谷，欲以攻车师。
至秋收谷，吉、憙发城郭诸国兵万余人，自与所将田士千五百人共击车师，攻交河城，破之。
王尚在其北石城中，未得，会军食尽，吉等且罢兵，归渠犁田。
收秋毕，复发兵攻车师王于石城。
王闻汉兵且至，北走匈奴求救，匈奴未为发兵。
王来还，与贵人苏犹议欲降汉，恐不见信。
苏犹教王击匈奴边国小蒲类，斩首，略其人民，以降吉。
车师旁小金附国随汉军后盗车师，车师王复自请击破金附。
匈奴闻车师降汉，发兵攻车师，吉、憙引兵北逢之，匈奴不敢前。
吉、憙即留一候与卒二十人留守王，吉等引兵归渠犁。
车师王恐匈奴兵复至而见杀也，乃轻骑奔乌孙，吉即迎其妻子置渠犁。
东奏事，至酒泉，有诏还田渠犁及车师，益积谷以安西国，侵匈奴。
吉还，传送车师王妻子诣长安，赏赐甚厚，每朝会四夷，常尊显以示之。
于是吉始使吏卒三百人别田车师。
得降者，言单于大臣皆曰： 车师地肥美，近匈奴，使汉得之，多田积谷，必害人国，不可不争也。
果遣骑来击田者，吉乃与校尉尽将渠犁田士千五百人往田，匈奴复益遣骑来，汉田卒少不能当，保车师城中。
匈奴将即其城下谓吉曰： 单于必争此地，不可田也。
围城数日乃解。
后常数千骑往来守车师，吉上书言： 车师去渠犁千余里，间以河山，北近匈奴，汉兵在渠犁者势不能相救，愿益田卒。
公卿议以为道远烦费，可且罢车师田者。
诏遣长罗侯将张掖、酒泉骑出车师北千余里，扬威武车师旁。
胡骑引去，吉乃得出，归渠犁，凡三校尉屯田。
车师王之走乌孙也，乌孙留不遣，遣使上书，愿留车师王，备国有急，可从西道以击匈奴。
汉许之。
于是汉召故车师太子军宿在焉耆者，立以为王，尽徙车师国民令居渠犁，遂以车师故地与匈奴。
车师王得近汉田官，与匈奴绝，亦安乐亲汉。
后汉使侍郎殷广德责乌孙，求车师王乌贵，将诣阙，赐第与其妻子居。
是岁，元康四年也。
其后置戍己校尉屯田，居车师故地。
元始中，车师后王国有新道，出五船北，通玉门关，往来差近，戊己校尉徐普欲开以省道里半，避白龙堆之厄。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Wu's reign in the Han Dynasty, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made King Jiehe of the Xiongnu who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty the title of Marquis of Kailing, and ordered him to lead the Loulan army to attack the Che division. The Xiongnu sent King Youxian to lead tens of thousands of knights to rescue the Che division. The desert soldiers failed in the battle and retreated.
In the fourth year of Zhenghe, the Han sent Chonghehou Ma Tong and led 40,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu north through Che Division; he also sent Kailinghou to lead troops from six countries including Loulan, Yuli and Weixu to attack the Che Division to prevent the Che Division from intercepting Chonghe Hou's army.
The soldiers of the Six Kingdoms surrounded Cha Shi, and the king of Cha Shi surrendered and became a subordinate of the Han Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, the Xiongnu sent another four thousand knights to the Che Division to garrison the fields.
Emperor Xuan succeeded to the throne and sent five generals to lead troops to attack the Huns. The Huns soldiers stationed in Cheshi fled out of fear, and Cheshi resumed contact with the Han.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was very angry and asked the Che Division to send the prince to stay with the Xiongnu as a hostage.
Junsu was the grandson of King Yanqi. He did not want to be held hostage by the Xiongnu, so he fled to Yanqi. King Cheshi made his other son Wu Gui the prince.
Later, Wu Gui became King of Cheshi, married the Huns, and provided information for the Huns to intercept the Han Dynasty's envoys to Wusun.
In the second year of Dijie, the Han Dynasty sent the minister Zheng Ji and the captain Sima Yi to lead the exempted prisoners to plow the fields in Qu, accumulate food, and prepare to attack the chariot division.
At the time of autumn harvest, Zheng Ji and Sima Yi recruited more than 10,000 troops from nearby countries, and together with their own 1,500 soldiers from the field, they attacked Che Division and captured Jiaohe City.
At that time, the chariot king was in Shicheng, north of Jiaohe City, and was not captured. At this time, the Han army ran out of food, and Zheng Ji and others withdrew their troops and returned to Quli to continue farming.
After the autumn harvest was over, Zheng Ji and others sent troops to attack the king of Cheshi in Shicheng.
King Cheshi heard that the Han soldiers were coming, so he went north to the Xiongnu to ask for help, but the Xiongnu did not send any reinforcements.
King Chaushi returned to his country and discussed surrendering to the Han Dynasty with the noble charioteer Su You, but he was afraid that the Han Dynasty would not believe him.
Su You suggested that King Cheshi attack the Xiaopu Lei Kingdom on the border of the Xiongnu, kill the king of Xiaopu Lei, plunder its people, and then surrender to Zheng Ji.
Xiao Jinfu, who was next to the chariot division, followed the Han army and robbed the chariot division. The king of chariot division asked Yu Han for permission to defeat Jin Fu himself.
When the Xiongnu heard that Che Division had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, they sent troops to attack Che Division. When Zheng Ji and Sima Xi led their troops to the north, the Xiongnu soldiers did not dare to advance.
Zheng Ji and Sima Yi left Yihou and twenty soldiers to defend the Cheshi King, while Zheng Ji and others led their troops back to Quli.
The King of Cheshi was afraid that the Huns would come again and he would be killed, so he fled to Wusun on horseback. Zheng Ji welcomed the wife of the King of Cheshi and stayed in Quli.
Zheng Jidong went to Jiuquan and reported the situation to Emperor Xuan. Emperor Xuan ordered him to return to Quli and Cheshi to farm and accumulate a large amount of grain to reassure the countries in the Western Regions and prepare to attack the Xiongnu.
Zheng Ji returned to Quli and sent the wife of Che Shiwang to Chang'an by post. Emperor Xuan rewarded Che Shiwang's wife very generously. Every time he met with the leaders of the ethnic minorities, he often showed them the Han's kindness to Che Shiwang's wife.
So Zheng Ji sent 300 officials to camp in Cheshi.
Some Huns surrendered to Zheng Ji, and the ministers of the Xiongnu Chanyu said: The land in Cheshi is fertile and close to the Xiongnu. If the Han Dynasty gets this land, it will open up fields and accumulate grain, which will definitely be harmful to other people's countries, so they have to fight for this land.
果然匈奴派骑士来攻击汉的屯田吏卒，郑吉就与校尉把在渠犁屯田的吏卒一千五百人都带到车师屯田。但匈奴又增派骑士前来，汉屯田吏卒太少，不能抵挡匈奴的侵袭，就退保于车师城中。
The Xiongnu general went to the city and said to Zheng Ji: The Xiongnu Chanyu must fight for this place, so you should not camp here anymore.
The Huns surrounded Cheshi City for several days before retreating.
Later, the Han Dynasty often sent thousands of cavalry to protect the chariot divisions. Zheng Ji wrote to Emperor Xuan, saying: The chariot troops have reached Quli for more than a thousand miles, separated by rivers and mountains, and close to the Xiongnu in the north. The Han soldiers who were at Quli had no time to rescue them. I hope to increase the number of charioteers and field pawns.
The ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed and thought that the journey of the chariot division was too long and the cost was too great, so they could temporarily withdraw the chariot division and the officials and soldiers from the fields.
Emperor Xuan ordered Luo Hou Changhui to lead the cavalry from Zhangye and Jiuquan counties to more than a thousand miles north of Che Division to promote their might.
After the Xiongnu knights retreated, Zheng Ji left Cheshi City, returned to Quli, and used three captains to farm the fields.
King Cheshi fled to the Wusun Kingdom. Wusun kept King Cheshi and refused to allow him to return home. He sent an envoy to write to Emperor Xuan, saying that he was willing to keep King Cheshi so that when the Huns invaded, they could attack the Huns from the west.
Emperor Xuan agreed.
So the Han Dynasty summoned the former Cheshi Prince Junsu who had fled to Yanqi and established him as King of Cheshi, moved all the people of Cheshi country to Quli, and gave Cheshi's original land to the Xiongnu.
The Cheshi King was close to the field officials in the desert, isolated from the Xiongnu, and at ease, close to the Han.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent the minister Yin Guangde as an envoy to rebuke Wusun and asked the former chariot master Wang Wugui to go to Chang'an together. Emperor Xuan gave the former chariot master Wang Wugui's mansion and lived with his wife Guang.
This year is the fourth year of Yuankang.
Later, Wuji Xiaowei was set up to live in the old place of Cheshi.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, there was a new road in Cheshihou's kingdom, which ran from the north of Wuchuan to Yumen Pass.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
车师后王姑句以道当为拄置，心不便也。
地又颇与匈奴南将军地接，曾欲分明其界然后奏之，召姑句使证之，不肯，系之。
姑句数以牛羊赇吏，求出不得。
姑句家矛端生火，其妻股紫陬谓姑句曰： 矛端生火，此兵气也，利以用兵。
前车师前王为都护司马所杀，今久系必死，不如降匈奴。
即驰突出高昌壁，入匈奴。
又去胡来王唐兜，国比大种赤水羌，数相冠，不胜，告急都护。
都护但钦不以时救助，唐兜困急，怨钦，东守玉门关。
玉门关不内，即将妻子人民千余人亡降匈奴。
匈奴受之，而遣使上书言状。
是时，新都侯王莽秉政，遣中郎将王昌等使匈奴，告单于西域内属，不当得受。
单于谢属。执二王以付使者。
莽使中郎王萌待西域恶都奴界上逢受。
单于遣使送，因请其罪。
使者以闻，莽不听，诏下会西域诸国王，陈军斩姑句、唐兜以示之。
至莽篡位，建国二年，以广新公甄丰为右伯，当出西域。
车师后王须置离闻之，与其右将股鞮、左将尸泥支谋曰： 闻甄公为西域太伯，当出，故事给使者牛、羊、谷、刍茭，导译，前五威将过，所给使尚未能备。
今太伯复出，国益贫，恐不能称。
欲亡入匈奴。
戊己校尉刀护闻之，召置离验问，辞服，乃械致都护但钦在所埒娄城。
置离人民知其不还，皆哭而送之。
至，钦则斩置离。
置离兄辅国侯狐兰支将置离众二千余人，驱畜产，举国亡降匈奴。
translation: 
Wang Guju, the driver behind the wheel, thought that the new road ran straight through his country, and he was unhappy in his heart.
The location of the new road was connected to the Xiongnu South General's territory. Xu Pu wanted to draw this boundary and report it to the emperor, so he summoned Gu Ju and asked him to help prove it.
But Gu Ju refused, so Xu Pu arrested him.
Guju bribed the Han palace with cattle and sheep several times and asked to let him out, but he was not allowed. There were sparks on the spearheads of Guju's family. Guju's wife Zi Zou said to Guju: "There are sparks on the spearheads. This is military spirit, which is conducive to fighting."
In the past, the former king of chariot division was killed by Sima, the guardian of the army. Today, you have been detained for a long time and you will definitely die too. It is better to surrender to the Huns.
So he escaped from Gaochangbi on horseback and surrendered to the Huns.
Then he went to the country of Tangdou, king of Hu Lai, and was close to the Chishui Qiang, a large species. He was plundered by bandits several times. Tang Dou couldn't win, so he asked the governor for help.
The protector Danqin failed to rescue him in time, and Tang Dou was trapped and critical. He resented Danqin and fled eastward to Yumen Pass.
The guard at Yumen Pass refused to let him in, so he led his wife and more than a thousand people to flee and surrendered to the Huns.
After the Huns took him in, they sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to report the situation to the emperor.
At this time, Wang Mang, the lord of the new capital, was in charge of the government and sent Wang Chang and others as envoys to the Xiongnu to tell Shan Yu that the Western Region belonged to the Han and that the Xiongnu should not accept Tang Dou's surrender.
Chanyu confessed his crime and arrested the two kings and handed them over to the Han envoys.
Wang Mang sent his lieutenant, Wang Meng, to the Edunu Realm in the Western Regions to wait to accept the two kings.
Shan Yu sent envoys to send the two kings to ask Han to absolve them of their sins.
The envoy reported to Wang Mang, but Wang Mang disagreed and ordered the kings of the Western Regions to gather together, set up military formations, and behead the two kings Guju and Tangdou in front of everyone.
Wang Mang usurped the throne. In the second year after the founding of the People's Republic of China, he appointed Zhen Feng, Duke of Guangxin, as your uncle and was about to go to the Western Regions.
When Wang Xuzhili, the queen of the chariot division, heard about it, he discussed with his right general Gu Ta and his left general Xi Nizhi and said: "I heard that Zhen Feng will be the Taibo of the Western Regions and is about to come." As usual, we had to provide the Han envoys with cattle, sheep, food, fodder for their animals, as well as guides and translators. In the past, Wang Qi, the general of the Five Powers, passed by here, but the things he should provide were not yet ready.
Today, the uncle from the Western Regions is here again. Our country is getting poorer and we may not be able to provide supplies.
Want to escape to the Huns.
When Wuji Colonel Daohu heard about this, he called Zhili for questioning. Zhili confessed and was escorted to Qilou City, where the Duhu Danqin was stationed.
Zhili's people knew that Zhili could not come back, so they all sent him off in tears.
Zhili arrived at Qilou City, but Danqin beheaded him.
Zhili's elder brother Hulan, the Marquis of Fuguo, led more than 2,000 Zhili people and drove their livestock. The whole country fled and surrendered to the Huns.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时戊己校尉刀护病，遣史陈良屯桓且谷备匈奴寇。史终带取粮食，司马丞韩玄领诸壁，右曲候任商领诸垒，相与谋曰： 西域诸国颇背叛，匈奴欲大侵。要死。
可杀校尉，将人众降匈奴。
即将数千骑至校尉府，胁诸亭令燔积薪，分告诸壁曰： 匈奴十万骑来人，吏士皆持兵，后者斩！
得三四百人，去校尉府数里止，晨火然。
校尉开门击鼓收吏士，良等随人，遂杀校尉刀护及子男四人、诸昆弟子男，独遗妇女小儿。
止留戊己校尉城，遣人与匈奴南将军相闻，南将军以二千骑迎良等。良等尽胁略戊己校尉吏士男女二千余人入匈奴。
单于以良、带为乌贲都尉。
后三岁，单于死，弟乌累单于咸立，复与莽和亲。
莽遣使者多赍金币赂单于，购求陈良、终带等。
单于尽收四人及手杀刀护者芝音妻子以下二十七人，皆械槛车付使者。
到长安，莽皆烧杀之。
其后莽复欺诈单于，和亲遂绝。
匈奴大击北边，而西域瓦解。
焉耆国近匈奴，先叛，杀都护但钦，莽不能讨。
天凤三年，乃遣五威将王骏、西域都护李崇将戊己校尉出西域，诸国皆郊迎，送兵谷，焉耆诈降而聚兵自备。
骏等将莎车、龟慈兵七千余人，分为数部入焉耆，焉耆伏兵要遮骏。及姑墨、尉犁、危须国兵为反间，还共袭击骏等，皆杀之。
唯戊己校尉郭钦别将兵，后至焉耆。
焉耆兵未还，钦击杀其老弱，引兵还。
莽封钦为剼胡子。
李崇收余士，还保龟兹。
数年莽死，崇遂没，西域因绝。
translation: 
At this time, Wang Mang changed the Seal of the Xiongnu Chanyu to the New Xiongnu Chanyu Zhang. The Chanyu was very resentful about this matter. When Hulanzhi came to surrender, he accepted it and sent troops to attack Che Division together with Hulanzhi. They killed the commander of the rear city of Che Division and wounded Sima, the capital guard. Hulanzhi troops returned to the Xiongnu. At this time, Wuji Xiaowei Daohu fell ill, so he sent Shi Chenliang to lead his troops to garrison in Huanqie Valley to prevent the Huns from invading. Shi Zhong was responsible for transporting grain, Sima Cheng Han Xuan was in charge of each wall, and You Qu was appointed Shang Guan to lead each base. Chen Liang and others discussed and said: Now many countries in the Western Region have rebelled against the Han, and the Huns are about to invade on a large scale. We are probably going to die.
We might as well kill the captain and lead the troops to surrender to the Huns.
So he led thousands of cavalry to the captain's mansion, threatened the pavilions and lit beacon fires, and informed the fortresses separately: "The Huns are coming to attack with one hundred thousand cavalry." Officials and soldiers must take up arms to face the enemy, and those who lag behind must be beheaded!
Three to four hundred people gathered together and stopped advancing a few miles away from the captain's mansion.
At dawn, light the beacon fire. The school captain opened the city gate and beat drums to gather the officials and soldiers. Chen Liang and others took the opportunity to enter and killed the school captain Dao Hu and his four sons, as well as their brothers, nephews, and only the women and children were left alive.
Chen Liang and others stayed in Wuji Xiaowei City and sent people to report the situation to the Xiongnu General Nan. General Nan sent 2,000 knights to greet Chen Liang and others. Chen Liang and others threatened Wuji Xiaowei, officers, men and women, a total of more than 2,000 men and women, to defect to the Huns.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was appointed Chen Liang, and eventually he was made the captain of Wuben.
Three years later, the Chanyu died. His younger brother Wu abandoned the Chanyu and established him as the Chanyu in Xian. He also made peace with Wang Mang.
Wang Mang sent an envoy to bring a lot of gold, treasure, silk and satin to Shan Yu, demanding that Chen Liang, Zhong Dai and others be handed over.
Chanyu arrested a total of twenty-seven people, including Chen Liang, Zhong Dai, Han Xuan, and Ren Shang, as well as Zhiyin, who killed Dao Hu himself, and their wives. They were all put into prison carts and handed over to the Han envoys.
After arriving in Chang'an, Wang Mang burned and killed all these people.
Later, Wang Mang deceived Shanyu again, and the harmonious relationship between the Xiongnu and Han was severed.
The Huns invaded Han's northern border and Han's rule in the Western Regions collapsed.
The Yanqi Kingdom was close to the Xiongnu, and they rebelled against the desert first and killed Danqin, the governor. Wang Mang was unable to send troops to conquer.
It was only in the third year of Tianfeng's reign that he sent General Wang Jun of the Five Powers, Li Chong, the Protector of the Western Regions, and Guo Qin, the captain of the Wuji School, to the Western Regions. All countries in the Western Regions welcomed him in the suburbs and supplied him with food. King Yanqi also pretended to surrender to the Han Dynasty, but secretly prepared his own troops.
Wang Jun and others led more than 7,000 soldiers from Yarkand and Qiuci into several groups and entered Yanqi. Yanqi set up an ambush to intercept Wang Jun and others. National soldiers such as Zhumo, Xianken and Yuti secretly communicated with Nie Yi and jointly attacked Wang Zhui and others, killing all Wang Zhui's officers and soldiers.
Only Wuji captain Guo Qin led another army to Yanqi later.
Yanqi's soldiers had not returned from the battle, so Guo Qin killed all the old and weak in their city and retreated back to the chief's room.
Wang Ling conferred the title of Ginsengzi.
Kuise gathered up the remaining soldiers and retreated to Kucha.
A few years later, Wang Mang died, and Li Chong fled to the Western Regions, which cut off contact with the Central Plains dynasty.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
最凡国五十。
自译长、城长、君、监、吏、大禄、百工、千长、都尉、且渠、当户、将、相至侯、王，皆佩汉印绶，凡三百七十六人。
赞曰：孝武之世，图制匈奴，患者兼从西国，结党南羌，乃表河西，列四郡，开玉门，通四域，以断匈奴右臂，隔绝南羌、月氏。
单于失援，由是远遁，而幕南无王庭。
遭值文、景玄默，养民五世，天下殷富，财力有余，士马强盛。
故能睹犀布、玳瑁则建珠崖七郡，感枸酱、竹杖则开牂柯、越巂，闻天马、蒲陶则通大宛、安息。
自是之后，明珠、文甲、通犀、翠羽之珍盈于后宫，薄梢、龙文、鱼目、汗血之马充于黄门，巨象、师子、猛犬、大雀之群食于外囿。
殊方异物，四面而至。
于是广开上林，穿昆明池，营千门万户之宫，立神明通天之台，兴造甲乙之帐，落以随珠和璧，天子负黼依，袭翠被，冯玉几，而处其中。
设酒池肉林以飨四夷之客，作《巴俞》都卢、海中《砀极》、漫衍鱼龙、角抵之戏以观视之。
及赂遗赠送，万里相奉，师旅之费，不可胜计。
至于用度不足，乃榷酒酤，管盐铁，铸白金，造皮币，算至车船，租及六畜。
民力屈，财力竭，因之以凶年，寇盗并起，道路不通，直指之使始出，衣绣杖斧，断斩于郡国，然后胜之。
是以末年遂弃轮台之地，而下哀痛之诏，岂非仁圣之所悔哉！
且通西域，近有龙堆，远则葱岭，身热、头痛、县度之厄。
translation: 
There are fifty countries in total.
There are 376 people in total who have been translated as chiefs, city chiefs, kings, jailers, officials, dalu, baichang, qianchang, captains, ququ, danghu, generals, ministers, marquises, and kings, all wearing seals and ribbons issued by the Han Dynasty.
Kangju, Dayuezhi, Anxi, Shanbin, Wuyi and other countries are not among the fifty countries because they are far away from the desert. If these countries come to Chang'an and make contributions, the Han Dynasty will repay them with considerable wealth and will not rule over them. Zan said: During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he tried to subdue the Xiongnu. However, the Xiongnu threatened the various countries in the Western Region and united with the Southern Qiang, posing a serious problem to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established four counties in Hexi and opened the Yumen Pass to connect the Western Regions to cut off the right arm of the Xiongnu and isolate the connection with the Southern Qiang and Yuezhi.
The Chanyu lost the support of the Western Region countries and the Qiang people, and fled to the distance. There was no royal court of the Xiongnu south of the desert.
After five generations of inaction and recuperation, the world became rich, had abundant financial resources, and had strong military and horse forces.
Therefore, when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty saw rhinos, elephants, and tortoiseshells, he founded seven counties including Zhuya; he was inspired by wolfberry and bamboo sticks and established the counties of Yangke and Yuejun; and when he heard about Tianma and Putao, he opened the road to Dawan and Anxi.
Since its creation, the harem has been filled with treasures such as pearls, tortoise shells, rhinos, and green feathers. Horses of all kinds including Pushao, dragons, fish eyes, and sweats have filled the Yellow Gate. Elephants, lions, fierce dogs, and ostriches have roamed the gardens in droves.
Rare and strange things from far away come from all directions.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty expanded Shanglin Garden, excavated the Kunming Pool, built palaces with thousands of doors and households, built a platform for gods to reach the sky, made tents for armor and armor, tied with beads and biscuits.
Emperor Wu lived here and set up a wine pool and a meat forest to entertain the guests of the surrounding ethnic minorities; he performed the "Bayu" dance, Dulu, "Intestine Ji" in the sea, fish and dragon illusions, costumed horns and other plays.
There are also rewards and gifts, supplies for thousands of miles, and military expenditures, countless.
If the finances were not enough, the state would sell wine, salt and iron, cast platinum and leather coins as money, and levy taxes on vehicles, ships, and livestock.
The people's strength was exhausted, their wealth was exhausted, coupled with the famine years and poor harvests, bandits and bandits appeared together, and the roads were blocked, so Emperor Wu ordered his envoys to wear embroidered clothes, hold axes and iron, and go to various counties to suppress them, and then won victory.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, he gave up farming in Yaluntai and issued a painful edict. Isn't this something that a benevolent saint would regret?
Moreover, on the road leading to the Western Region, there are Bailongdui nearby, Congling far away, and dangerous areas such as body heat, headache, and counties.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
淮南、杜钦、扬雄之论，皆以为此天地所以界别区域，绝外内也。
《书》曰 西戎即序 ，禹即就而序之，非上威服致其贡物也。
西域诸国，各有君长，兵众分弱，无所统一，虽属匈奴，不相亲附。
匈奴能得其马畜旃罽，而不能统率与之进退。
与汉隔绝，道里又远，得之不为益，弃之不为损。
盛德在我，无取于彼。
故自建武以来，西域思汉威德，咸乐内属。
唯其小邑鄯善、车师，界迫匈奴，尚为所拘。
而其大国莎车、于阗之属，数遣使置质于汉，愿请属都护。
圣上远览古今，因时之宜，羁縻不绝，辞而未许。
虽大禹之序西戎，周公之让白雉，太宗之却走马，义兼之矣，亦何以尚兹！
translation: 
The Huainan kings Liu An, Du Qin, and Yang Xiong all believed that this was set up by heaven and earth to divide areas to isolate the inside and outside.
"Shangshu" says "Xirong is the preface", which means that after Yu controlled the floods and divided the nine states, he put the countries of Xirong within a certain range, and did not rely on the emperor's might to make them pay tribute.
The countries in the Western Region each have their own kings and commanders. Their armies are scattered and weak and cannot be unified. Although he once belonged to the Xiongnu, he was not close to them.
The Xiongnu could get their horses, livestock and felt kitchens, but they could not lead them to attack or retreat.
They are isolated from the Han Dynasty and the road is far away. It is not a benefit to get them and it is not a loss to abandon them.
The virtues of the Han Dynasty were created by ourselves and did not come from them.
Therefore, since the founding of Emperor Guangwu, all countries in the Western Regions have longed for the might and virtue of the Han Dynasty and have been willing to submit to them.
Only small countries such as Shanshan and Cheshi were close to the Xiongnu and were still controlled by the Xiongnu.
Other great powers, such as Yarkand and Khotan, sent envoys several times to bring hostages to the Han Dynasty, hoping that they would be allowed to become guardians.
Emperor Guangwu studied ancient and modern history, and based on the situation at that time, he adopted a policy of restraint. He disagreed with the dispatch of the Western Region Protector and also repatriated the hostages from various countries.
Although Dayu demarcated the territory of Xirong, Duke Zhou did not accept the white pheasants of the Yueshang clan, and Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty did not accept thousands of miles of horses, these were all beautiful things done by ancient sages, but Emperor Guangwu's actions all had this meaning, and there was nothing more clever than sending a man to do it.


