Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 2, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
乌孙国，大昆弥治赤谷城，去长安八千九百里。
户十二万，口六十三万，胜兵十八万八千八百人。
相，大禄，左右大将二人，侯三人，大将、都尉各一人，大监二人，大吏一人，舍中大吏二人，骑君一人。
东至都护治所千七百二十一里，西至康居蕃内地五千里。
地莽平。多雨，寒。
山多松樠。
不田作种树，随畜逐水草，与匈奴同俗。
国多马，富人至四五千匹。
民刚恶，贪狼无信，多寇盗，最为强国。
故服匈奴，后盛大，取羁属，不肯往朝会。
东与匈奴、西北与康居、西与大宛、南与城郭诸国相接。
本塞地也，大月氏西破走塞王，塞王南越县度。大月氏居其地。
后乌孙昆莫击破大月氏，大月氏徙西臣大夏，而乌孙昆莫居之，故乌孙民有塞种、大月氏种云。
始张骞言乌孙本与大月氏共在敦煌间，今乌孙虽强大，可厚赂招，令东居故地，妻以公主，与为昆弟，以制匈奴。
语在《张骞传》。
武帝即位，令骞赍金币住。
昆莫见骞如单于礼，骞大惭，谓曰： 天子致赐，王不拜，则还赐。
昆莫起拜，其它如故。
初，昆莫有十余子，中子大禄强，善将，将众万余骑别居。
大禄兄太子，太子有子曰岑陬。
太子蚤死，谓昆莫曰： 必以岑陬为太子。
昆莫哀许之。
大禄怒，乃收其昆弟，将众畔，谋攻岑陬。
昆莫与芩陬万余骑，令别居，昆莫亦自有万余骑以自备。
国分为三，大总羁属昆莫。
骞既致赐，谕指曰： 乌孙能东居故地，则汉遣公主为夫人，结为昆弟，共距匈奴，不足破也。
translation: 
In the Wusun Kingdom, Da Kunmi governed Chigu City and was sent to Chang'an for 8,900 miles.
There are 120,000 households, a population of 630,000, and an army of 188,800 people.
There is a prime minister, a big official, two generals on the left and right, three marquis, one general and a captain, two eunuchs, one official, two senior officials in the house, and one knight.
It went as far as Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, for 1,721 miles, and to the west as far as the hinterland of Kangju and Fan, 5,000 miles.
The land is grassy and flat, rainy and the climate is cold.
There are many pines on the mountain.
The residents do not farm or plant trees, but live with their livestock in search of water and grass, which is the same custom as the Xiongnu.
The country is prolific with horses, and wealthy people have as many as four to five thousand horses.
The people are strong-willed, greedy for money, unfaithful, and have many thieves. This is a powerful country.
He used to submit to the Xiongnu, but later he became powerful and adopted a restrained attitude towards the Xiongnu and refused to go to worship.
It borders the Xiongnu in the east, Kangju in the northwest, Dawan in the west, and the Chengguo Kingdoms in the south.
Zaojie was originally the land of the Sai people. The Dayue clan defeated and drove away the King of Sai to the west. The King of Sai moved to the south of the county, and the Dayue clan occupied the land of the Sai people.
Later, Wusun Kunmo defeated Dayuezhi, and Dayuezhi moved westward and surrendered to Daxia. Wusun Kunmo occupied the original Dayuezhi land, so Wusun residents included Sai people and Dayuezhi people.
At first, Zhang Qian said that Wusun and Da Yueshi were originally in Dunhuang. Although Wusun was now stronger, he could still give them some generous gifts to lure them back to their hometown; and then marry the princess to Kunmo, and!
The emperor urgently wanted to become a country of brothers and used this method to restrain the Xiongnu.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Qian". Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne and ordered Zhang Qian to bring gold coins and treasures to Wusun.
Kun Mo met Zhang Qian with the attitude of the Xiongnu Chanyu. Zhang Qian was very ashamed and angry, and said to Kun Mo: If you don't thank the emperor for giving you a gift, then return the gift to us.
Kunmo stood up and thanked him, but in other respects he remained the same.
At the beginning, Kunmo had more than a dozen sons. The middle son Dalu was very strong and good at leading troops. He led more than 10,000 cavalry and lived elsewhere.
Dalu's brother was the prince, and the prince had a son named Cen Zuo.
The prince died early. Before his death, he said to Kunmo: "Cen Zou must be the prince."
Kunmo was sad and agreed.
Dalu was very angry about this incident, so he captured all the other brothers, led his soldiers to rebel, and prepared to attack Cen Zuo.
Kunmo gave Cen Zuo more than 10,000 cavalry and ordered him to station elsewhere. He also had more than 10,000 cavalry for self-defense.
At this time, the country was divided into three parts, all under the control of Kunmo.
After Zhang Qian handed over the gifts given to Kunmo by the Han Dynasty, he said to Kunmo: If Wusun can return to his hometown, the Han Dynasty will send the princess as Kunmo's wife. The two countries will become brotherly countries and resist the Xiongnu together. The Xiongnu will definitely be defeated.
summary:
The Wusun Kingdom, governed by Da Kunmi from Chigu City, was located 8,900 miles from Chang'an. It had 120,000 households, a population of 630,000, and an army of 188,800. The kingdom had a structured government with officials including a prime minister, generals, marquises, and eunuchs. The land was grassy, rainy, and cold, with residents practicing nomadic herding like the Xiongnu. The country was rich in horses, with wealthy individuals owning up to 4,000-5,000. The people were strong-willed but greedy and unfaithful. Wusun originally submitted to the Xiongnu but later became powerful and resisted them. It bordered the Xiongnu, Kangju, Dawan, and various Chengguo Kingdoms. The region was originally inhabited by the Sai people, then conquered by the Dayuezhi, and later by Wusun Kunmo, who incorporated both Sai and Dayuezhi populations.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
乌孙远汉，未知其大小，又近匈奴，服属日久，其大臣皆不欲徙。
昆莫年老国分，不能专制，乃发使送骞，因献马数十匹报谢。
其使见汉人众富厚，归其国，其国后乃益重汉。
匈奴闻其与汉通，怒欲击之。
又汉使乌孙，乃出其南，抵大宛、月氏，相属不绝。
乌孙于是恐，使使献马，愿得尚汉公主，为昆弟。
天子问群臣，议许，曰： 必先内聘，然后遣女。
乌孙以马千匹聘。
汉元封中，遣江都王建女细君为公主，以妻焉。赐乘舆服御物，为备官属宦官侍御数百人，赠送甚盛。
乌孙昆莫以为右夫人。
匈奴亦遣女妻昆莫，昆莫以为左夫人。
公主至其国，自治宫室居，岁时一再与昆莫会，置酒饮食，以币、帛赐王左右贵人。
昆莫年老，言语不通，公主悲愁，自为作歌曰： 吾家嫁我兮天一方，远托异国兮乌孙王。
穹庐为室兮旃为墙，以肉为食兮酪为浆。
居常土思兮心内伤，愿为黄鹄兮归故乡。
天子闻而怜之，间岁遣使者持帷帐锦绣给遗焉。
昆莫年老，欲使其孙岑陬尚公主。
公主不听，上书言状，天子报曰： 从其国俗，欲与乌孙共灭胡。
岑陬遂妻公主。
昆莫死，岑陬代立。
岑陬者，官号也，名军须靡。
昆莫，王号也，名猎骄靡。
后书 昆弥 云。
岑陬尚江都公主，生一女少夫。
公主死，汉复以楚王戊之孙解忧为公主，妻岑陬。
岑陬胡妇子泥靡尚小，岑陬且死，以国与季父大禄子翁归靡，曰： 泥靡大，以国归之。
translation: 
But Wusun was far away from the Han Dynasty, and the size of the Han Dynasty was unknown. Wusun himself was close to the Xiongnu and had obeyed the Xiongnu for a long time. None of the ministers were willing to move eastward.
Kunmo is old, the country is divided, and power cannot be concentrated. So an envoy was sent to take Zhang Qian back to Chang'an, and at the same time, he offered dozens of horses as a thank you.
The envoy saw that the Han Dynasty had a large population and rich products. After returning home, Wusun respected the Han Dynasty more and more.
When the Xiongnu heard that Wusun had contact with the Han, they were very angry and wanted to attack Wusun.
In addition, the envoys of the Han Dynasty passed south of Wusun to Dayuan and Yuezhi, and they were not stopped on the road.
Wusun was very frightened, so he sent an envoy to offer horses to the Han Dynasty and offered to marry Princess Mo, and the two countries became brothers.
The emperor asked the ministers for their opinions, and the court agreed. Decision: The bride price must be paid first, and then the princess must be sent away.
Wusun gave a thousand horses as a betrothal gift.
During the Yuanfeng period of the Han Dynasty, Xijun, the daughter of King Liu Jian of Jiangdu, was sent to marry Kunmo as a princess. The emperor gave her carriages, horses and royal utensils. He also equipped her with hundreds of officials, eunuchs, maids and servants, and gave her rich gifts.
Wusun Kunmo took Mr. Bin as his right wife.
The Xiongnu also sent women to marry Kunmo, and Kunmo took the Xiongnu girl as his left wife.
After the princess arrived in Wusun, she built a palace to live in. She had gatherings with Kunmo several times a year, drank and ate, and rewarded the nobles around Kunmo with property, silk fabrics, etc.
Kunmo was old and couldn't understand the language. The princess was very sad and composed a song by herself: My family married me to the far side of the sky, and asked King Yan of Wu to come to a foreign country far away.
The dome is the room, the walls are the walls, the meat is the food, and the cheese is the pulp.
Living in this land, I miss you and my heart hurts. I wish you could return to your hometown as a yellow swan.
When the emperor heard about it, he felt pity for her and sent envoys every other year to deliver curtains, brocade and other items.
Kunmo is old and wants his grandson Cen Zuo to marry the princess.
The princess disagreed and wrote to the emperor explaining the matter. The emperor replied: Following the custom of Wusun country, Mo wants to join forces with Wusun to destroy the Xiongnu.
Cen Zuo married the princess.
Kun Mo died, and Cen Zou became king in his stead.
Cen Zuo is an official title, and his name is Jun Xumi.
Kunmo is the king's name, and his name is Liejiaomi.
Later, the king was named Kunmi.
Cen Zuo married the princess of Jiangdu and gave birth to a daughter named Shaofu.
After the princess died, the Han Dynasty sent Jieyou, the granddaughter of King Liu Wu of Chu, to marry Cen Zou for the princess.
Cen Zou's son Nimi by his Hun wife was still young. When Cen Zou was about to die, he passed the throne to his uncle Dalu's son Weng Guimi. He said: When Nimi grows up, he will return the throne to Nimi.
summary:
Zhang Qian, sent by Emperor Wu of Han, attempted to persuade Wusun to return to their homeland and ally with Han against the Xiongnu. Kunmo initially treated Zhang Qian with Xiongnu-like arrogance but eventually showed respect. Wusun was divided among Kunmo's sons, with internal conflicts over succession. Despite Zhang Qian's efforts, Wusun was reluctant to move east due to distance and longstanding ties with the Xiongnu. However, after envoys saw Han's wealth, Wusun grew more respectful. The Xiongnu, angered by Wusun's contact with Han, threatened attack, leading Wusun to propose marriage to a Han princess. The Han agreed, and during the Yuanfeng period, Princess Xijun was sent to marry Kunmo. The Xiongnu also sent a bride, and Kunmo took both as wives. The princess, homesick and unable to communicate with the elderly Kunmo, composed a sorrowful song. Emperor Wu, pitying her, sent gifts regularly.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
翁归靡既立，号肥王，复尚楚主解忧，生三男两女：长男曰元贵靡；次曰万年，为莎车王；次曰大乐，为左大将；长女弟史为龟兹王绛宾妻；小女素光为若呼翕侯妻。
昭帝时，公主上书，言： 匈奴发骑田车师，车师与匈奴为一，共侵乌孙，唯天子幸救之！
汉养士马，议欲击匈奴。
会昭帝崩，宣帝初即位，公主及昆弥皆遣使上书，言： 匈奴复连发大兵侵兵乌孙，取车延、恶师地，收人民去，使使谓乌孙趣持公主来，欲隔绝汉。
昆弥愿发国半精兵，自给人马五万骑，尽力击匈奴。
唯天子出兵以救公主、昆弥。
汉兵大发十五万骑，五将军分道并出。
语在《匈奴传》。
遣校尉常惠使持节护乌孙兵，昆弥自将翕侯以下五万骑从西方人，至右谷蠡王庭，获单于父行及嫂、居次、名王、犁氵于都尉、千长、骑将以下四万级，马、牛、羊、驴、橐驼七十余万头，乌孙皆自取所虏获。
还，封惠为长罗侯。
是岁，本始三年也。
汉遣惠持金币赐乌孙贵人有功者。
元康二年，乌孙昆弥因惠上书： 愿以汉外孙元贵靡为嗣，得令复尚汉公主，结婚重亲，畔绝匈奴，原聘马、骡各千匹。
诏下公卿议，大鸿胪萧望之以为： 乌孙绝域，变故难保，不可许。
上美乌孙新立大功，又重绝故业，遣使者至乌孙，先迎取聘。
昆弥及太子、左右大将、都尉皆遣使，凡三百余人，入汉迎取少主。
上乃以乌孙主解忧弟子相夫为公主，置官属侍御百余人，舍上林中，学乌孙言。
天子自临平乐观，会匈奴使者、外国君长大角抵，设乐而遣之。使长罗侯光禄大夫惠为副，凡持节者四人，送少主至郭煌。
未出塞，闻乌孙昆弥翁归靡死，乌孙贵人共从本约，立岑陬子泥靡代为昆靡，号狂王。
惠上书： 愿留少主郭煌，惠驰至乌孙责让不立元贵靡为昆靡，还迎少主。
事下公卿，望之复以为： 乌孙持两端，难约结。
前公主在乌孙四十余年，恩爱不亲密，边竟未得安，此已事已验也。
令少主以元贵靡不立而还，信无负于夷狄，中国之福也。
少主不止，徭役将兴，其原起此。
天子从之，征还少主。
translation: 
Weng Guimi came to the throne and was named King Fei. He married Jieyou and gave birth to three sons and two daughters: the eldest son was named Yuan Guimi; the second son was named Wannian and was the king of Shache; the third son was named Dalue and was the general of Zuo; the eldest daughter was named Shi and was the wife of King Jiangbin of Qiuci; the younger daughter was named Suguang and was the wife of Ruohulinghou.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, Princess Jieyou wrote to the emperor, saying that the Xiongnu sent cavalry to farm in Cheshi, and that the Cheshi and the Xiongnu united to invade Wusun, hoping that the emperor would rescue them.
The Han Dynasty prepared soldiers and horses to attack the Xiongnu.
When Emperor Zhao died and Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne, Princess Jieyou and Kunmi both sent envoys to write, saying that the Xiongnu invaded and attacked Wusun in succession, captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places, and plundered all the local residents. He also sent an envoy to tell Wusun to send the princess to the Huns as soon as possible, hoping to destroy the relationship between Wusun and Han.
Kunmi is willing to send half of the country's elite troops and prepare 50,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu with all his strength.
I hope the emperor will send troops to rescue the princess and Kunmi as soon as possible.
The Han Dynasty sent an army of 150,000 cavalry, led by five generals.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
The Han Dynasty also sent Lieutenant Chang Hui as an envoy to protect the Wusun soldiers. Kunmi personally led a total of 50,000 knights under the Marquis of Ji to attack the Xiongnu from the west. When the Xiongnu arrived at the royal court of Yougu Li, they captured 40,000 people including Shanyu's father, sister-in-law, Juzi, Ming Wang, Ligu Duwei, Qian Chang, and cavalry generals, as well as more than 700,000 horses, cattle, sheep, donkeys, and camels. Wusun took these trophies away.
When the Han army returned home, Emperor Xuan granted Chang Hui the title of Marquis of Changluo.
This year is the third year of the original year.
The Han Dynasty also sent Chang Hui with valuable belongings and silk fabrics to be given to the nobles of Wusun who had made military exploits.
In the second year of Yuankang, Wusun Kunmi wrote to Emperor Xuan through Chang Hui, saying: I would like to make my grandson Yuan Guimi of the Han Dynasty the heir to the throne, and let him also marry a Han princess, form a double marriage, and sever ties with the Huns. I am willing to use a thousand horses and mules as a betrothal gift.
Emperor Xuan ordered ministers to discuss the matter. Xiao Wangzhi, the great emperor, thought: Wusun is located very far away and there is no guarantee that it will not change. Don't agree to their request.
Emperor Xuan admired Wusun's recent great achievements and found it difficult to sever the established marriage relationship, so he sent an envoy to Wusun to receive the betrothal gift first.
Kunmi, the crown prince, the left and right generals, and the captain sent a delegation of more than 300 people to the Han Dynasty to welcome the young princess.
Emperor Xuan took Princess Jieyou's niece and husband as the princess, and appointed more than a hundred officials, maids, etc. to live in Shanglin Garden and learn the Wusun language.
Emperor Xuan personally came to Pingganguang, met with the Huns envoys and foreign princes, performed a jiaoduan drama, music, singing and dancing, and then sent the princess to the west to marry. The envoy Chang Luohou Guanglu, the doctor Chang Hui assisted, and four people were envoys to send the young princess to Dunhuang.
Before leaving the frontier fortress, they heard that Wusun Kunmi Weng Guimi had died. According to the agreement made by Cen Zou during his lifetime, the Wusun nobles appointed Cen Zou's son Nimi as Kunmi, named Kuangwang.
Chang Hui wrote to Emperor Xuan saying: He wanted to keep the young princess in Dunhuang temporarily. Chang Hui rushed to Wusun and blamed Yuan Guimi for not appointing Yuan Guimi as Kunmi, and then took the young princess back to Chang'an.
The matter was discussed by the ministers, and Xiao Wangzhi said: "It is difficult to make a treaty with Wusun, who is headed by a rat."
Princess Jieyou has been in Wusun for more than 40 years. The relationship between the two countries is not close and the border is not peaceful. This is proved by creation.
Today, the young princess returned to Chang'an because Yuan Gui was not able to stand up. She did not feel sorry for Wusun, and it was also a blessing for the Han Dynasty.
If the young princess does not stop going to Wusun, the corvee will flourish, and this is where the roots begin.
Emperor Xuan accepted this opinion and took the young princess back to Chang'an.
summary:
After Kunmo's death, his grandson Cen Zuo married the princess per Wusun custom, as Emperor Wu approved to maintain the alliance. Cen Zuo became king, and the princess bore a daughter. Upon her death, Princess Jieyou, granddaughter of a Han king, was sent to marry Cen Zuo. Cen Zuo's son by his Xiongnu wife was young, so the throne passed to his uncle's son, Weng Guimi, who married Jieyou and had three sons and two daughters. During Emperor Zhao's reign, Princess Jieyou sought Han aid against Xiongnu attacks. Emperor Xuan later sent a large force, including 150,000 Han cavalry and 50,000 Wusun troops, defeating the Xiongnu and capturing many people and livestock. Wusun took the spoils. Emperor Xuan rewarded Chang Hui, who had led the Wusun forces. Wusun Kunmi proposed making his Han-descended grandson Yuan Guimi heir, with a double marriage to sever ties with the Xiongnu. Emperor Xuan agreed but faced opposition from officials like Xiao Wangzhi, who doubted Wusun's reliability. Despite this, the emperor proceeded, sending a young princess to Wusun. However, Weng Guimi died before her arrival, and the throne passed to Nimi, Cen Zuo's son. Chang Hui advised keeping the princess in Dunhuang, and after debate, Emperor Xuan recalled her. Princess Jieyou remained in Wusun for over 40 years, and the mad king, who succeeded, was cruel and unpopular. A plot to kill him failed, leading to conflict. The Han intervened, executing those involved. Later, Wujiutu, a son of Weng Guimi, killed the mad king and declared himself Kunmi. The Han sent forces but ultimately negotiated, dividing Wusun into two Kunmi with separate households. Princess Jieyou, now elderly, was allowed to return to Chang'an, where she died two years later.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
时戊己校尉刀护病，遣史陈良屯桓且谷备匈奴寇。史终带取粮食，司马丞韩玄领诸壁，右曲候任商领诸垒，相与谋曰： 西域诸国颇背叛，匈奴欲大侵。要死。
可杀校尉，将人众降匈奴。
即将数千骑至校尉府，胁诸亭令燔积薪，分告诸壁曰： 匈奴十万骑来人，吏士皆持兵，后者斩！
得三四百人，去校尉府数里止，晨火然。
校尉开门击鼓收吏士，良等随人，遂杀校尉刀护及子男四人、诸昆弟子男，独遗妇女小儿。
止留戊己校尉城，遣人与匈奴南将军相闻，南将军以二千骑迎良等。良等尽胁略戊己校尉吏士男女二千余人入匈奴。
单于以良、带为乌贲都尉。
后三岁，单于死，弟乌累单于咸立，复与莽和亲。
莽遣使者多赍金币赂单于，购求陈良、终带等。
单于尽收四人及手杀刀护者芝音妻子以下二十七人，皆械槛车付使者。
到长安，莽皆烧杀之。
其后莽复欺诈单于，和亲遂绝。
匈奴大击北边，而西域瓦解。
焉耆国近匈奴，先叛，杀都护但钦，莽不能讨。
天凤三年，乃遣五威将王骏、西域都护李崇将戊己校尉出西域，诸国皆郊迎，送兵谷，焉耆诈降而聚兵自备。
骏等将莎车、龟慈兵七千余人，分为数部入焉耆，焉耆伏兵要遮骏。及姑墨、尉犁、危须国兵为反间，还共袭击骏等，皆杀之。
唯戊己校尉郭钦别将兵，后至焉耆。
焉耆兵未还，钦击杀其老弱，引兵还。
莽封钦为剼胡子。
李崇收余士，还保龟兹。
数年莽死，崇遂没，西域因绝。
translation: 
At this time, Wang Mang changed the Seal of the Xiongnu Chanyu to the New Xiongnu Chanyu Zhang. The Chanyu was very resentful about this matter. When Hulanzhi came to surrender, he accepted it and sent troops to attack Che Division together with Hulanzhi. They killed the commander of the rear city of Che Division and wounded Sima, the capital guard. Hulanzhi troops returned to the Xiongnu. At this time, Wuji Xiaowei Daohu fell ill, so he sent Shi Chenliang to lead his troops to garrison in Huanqie Valley to prevent the Huns from invading. Shi Zhong was responsible for transporting grain, Sima Cheng Han Xuan was in charge of each wall, and You Qu was appointed Shang Guan to lead each base. Chen Liang and others discussed and said: Now many countries in the Western Region have rebelled against the Han, and the Huns are about to invade on a large scale. We are probably going to die.
We might as well kill the captain and lead the troops to surrender to the Huns.
So he led thousands of cavalry to the captain's mansion, threatened the pavilions and lit beacon fires, and informed the fortresses separately: "The Huns are coming to attack with one hundred thousand cavalry." Officials and soldiers must take up arms to face the enemy, and those who lag behind must be beheaded!
Three to four hundred people gathered together and stopped advancing a few miles away from the captain's mansion.
At dawn, light the beacon fire. The school captain opened the city gate and beat drums to gather the officials and soldiers. Chen Liang and others took the opportunity to enter and killed the school captain Dao Hu and his four sons, as well as their brothers, nephews, and only the women and children were left alive.
Chen Liang and others stayed in Wuji Xiaowei City and sent people to report the situation to the Xiongnu General Nan. General Nan sent 2,000 knights to greet Chen Liang and others. Chen Liang and others threatened Wuji Xiaowei, officers, men and women, a total of more than 2,000 men and women, to defect to the Huns.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was appointed Chen Liang, and eventually he was made the captain of Wuben.
Three years later, the Chanyu died. His younger brother Wu abandoned the Chanyu and established him as the Chanyu in Xian. He also made peace with Wang Mang.
Wang Mang sent an envoy to bring a lot of gold, treasure, silk and satin to Shan Yu, demanding that Chen Liang, Zhong Dai and others be handed over.
Chanyu arrested a total of twenty-seven people, including Chen Liang, Zhong Dai, Han Xuan, and Ren Shang, as well as Zhiyin, who killed Dao Hu himself, and their wives. They were all put into prison carts and handed over to the Han envoys.
After arriving in Chang'an, Wang Mang burned and killed all these people.
Later, Wang Mang deceived Shanyu again, and the harmonious relationship between the Xiongnu and Han was severed.
The Huns invaded Han's northern border and Han's rule in the Western Regions collapsed.
The Yanqi Kingdom was close to the Xiongnu, and they rebelled against the desert first and killed Danqin, the governor. Wang Mang was unable to send troops to conquer.
It was only in the third year of Tianfeng's reign that he sent General Wang Jun of the Five Powers, Li Chong, the Protector of the Western Regions, and Guo Qin, the captain of the Wuji School, to the Western Regions. All countries in the Western Regions welcomed him in the suburbs and supplied him with food. King Yanqi also pretended to surrender to the Han Dynasty, but secretly prepared his own troops.
Wang Jun and others led more than 7,000 soldiers from Yarkand and Qiuci into several groups and entered Yanqi. Yanqi set up an ambush to intercept Wang Jun and others. National soldiers such as Zhumo, Xianken and Yuti secretly communicated with Nie Yi and jointly attacked Wang Zhui and others, killing all Wang Zhui's officers and soldiers.
Only Wuji captain Guo Qin led another army to Yanqi later.
Yanqi's soldiers had not returned from the battle, so Guo Qin killed all the old and weak in their city and retreated back to the chief's room.
Wang Ling conferred the title of Ginsengzi.
Kuise gathered up the remaining soldiers and retreated to Kucha.
A few years later, Wang Mang died, and Li Chong fled to the Western Regions, which cut off contact with the Central Plains dynasty.
summary:
The text also details various other kingdoms in the Western Regions, including Gumo, Wensu, Qiuci, and others, with their distances from Chang'an, populations, armies, and administrative structures. It describes the Han Dynasty's efforts to establish agricultural colonies, such as in Luntai, and the challenges of maintaining control over distant territories. Emperor Wu's later years saw a shift away from expansion, with a focus on domestic recovery and reduced military campaigns. The narrative covers conflicts with the Xiongnu, internal rebellions, and the eventual decline of Han influence in the region, culminating in the collapse of the Western Regions Protectorate during Wang Mang's reign. The summary concludes with a reflection on the costs and benefits of Han's Western Regions policy, noting that while the region offered exotic goods, it also drained resources and led to instability.

