Chunk 0: 
original: 
王浑，字玄冲，太原晋阳人也。
父昶，魏司空。
浑沈雅有器量。
袭父爵京陵侯，辟大将军曹爽掾。
爽诛，随例免。
起为怀令，参文帝安东军事，累迁散骑黄门侍郎、散骑常侍。
咸熙中为越骑校尉。
武帝受禅，加扬烈将军，迁徐州刺史。
时年荒岁饥，浑开仓振赡，百姓赖之。
泰始初，增封邑千八百户。
久之，迁东中郎将，监淮北诸军事，镇许昌。
数陈损益，多见纳用。
转征虏将军、监豫州诸军事、假节，领豫州刺史。
浑与吴接境，宣布威信，前后降附甚多。
吴将薛莹、鲁淑众号十万，淑向弋阳，莹向新息。
时州兵并放休息，众裁一旅，浮淮潜济，出其不意，莹等不虞晋师之至。
浑击破之，以功封次子尚为关内侯。
迁安东将军、都督扬州诸军事，镇寿春。
吴人大佃皖城，图为边害。
浑遣扬州刺史应绰督淮南诸军攻破之，并破诸别屯，焚其积谷百八十余万斛、稻苗四千余顷、船六百余艘。
浑遂陈兵东疆，视其地形险易，历观敌城，察攻取之势。
及大举伐吴，浑率师出横江，遣参军陈慎、都尉张乔攻寻阳濑乡，又击吴牙门将孔忠，皆破之，获吴将周兴等五人。
又遣殄吴护军李纯据高望城，讨吴将俞恭，破之，多所斩获。
吴历武将军陈代、平虏将军硃明惧而来降。
吴丞相张悌、大将军孙震等率众数万指城阳，浑遣司马孙畴、扬州刺史周浚击破之，临阵斩二将，及首虏七千八百级，吴人大震。
孙皓司徒何植、建威将军孙晏送印节诣浑降。
既而王濬破石头，降孙皓，威名益振。
明日，浑始济江，登建鄴宫，酾酒高会。
自以先据江上，破皓中军，案甲不进，致在王濬之后。
意甚愧恨，有不平之色，频奏濬罪状，时人讥之。
帝下诏曰： 使持节、都督扬州诸军事、安东将军、京陵侯王浑，督率所统，遂逼秣陵，令贼孙皓救死自卫，不得分兵上赴，以成西军之功，又摧大敌，获张悌，使皓途穷势尽，面缚乞降。
遂平定秣陵，功勋茂著。
其增封八千户，进爵为公，封子澄为亭侯、弟湛为关内侯，赐绢八千匹。
转征东大将军，复镇寿阳。
浑不尚刑名，处断明允。
时吴人新附，颇怀畏惧。
浑抚循羁旅，虚怀绥纳，座无空席，门不停宾。
于是江东之士莫不悦附。
征拜尚书左仆射，加散骑常侍。
会朝臣立议齐王攸当之籓，浑上书谏曰： 伏承圣诏，宪章古典，进齐王攸为上公，崇其礼仪，遣攸之国。
昔周氏建国，大封诸姬，以籓帝室，永世作宪。
至于公旦，武王之弟，左右王事，辅济大业，不使归籓。
translation: 
Wang Hun, courtesy name Xuanchong, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His father, Wang Chang, was Wei Sikong.
Wang Hun is deep, elegant and thoughtful.
Inheriting his father's title of Marquis of Jingling, he was recruited as a subordinate officer of General Cao Shuang.
Cao Shuang was executed and dismissed from office as usual.
He was promoted to Huailing, and was promoted to serve as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi and the regular servant of Sanqi.
During the Xianxi period, he was appointed as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, granted Wang Hun the title of General Yanglie, and moved him to the post of governor of Xuzhou.
When there was famine and famine at that time, Wang Hun opened a warehouse to provide relief, and the people relied on him.
In the early years of Taishi, 1,800 households were added to the fiefdom.
After a period of time, he was transferred to General Dongzhonglang to supervise the military affairs in Huaibei and guard Zhuchang.
He stated the strategy of governing the country many times and was mostly adopted.
He was transferred to the post of general of conquering captives, supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and serving as the governor of Yuzhou.
Xinggeng's jurisdiction was connected to the county border. He declared his prestige, and many people surrendered and attached themselves to him.
The armies of Wu generals Xue Ying and Lu Shu were said to be one hundred thousand. Lu Shu's army went to Yiyang, and Xue Ying's army went to the new emperor.
At that time, all the soldiers in the state were on holiday, and there was only one traveler in the army. Wang Hun used a boat to cross the border quietly, but by surprise, Ying and others did not expect the arrival of Zhijun.
Wang Hun defeated them and made Wang Hun's second son Wang Shang the Marquis of Guannei due to his meritorious service.
He was moved to the post of General Andong, Commander-in-Chief of the Yangzhou military forces, and guarded Shouchun.
The Wu people settled in Wancheng on a large scale and planned to cause harm on the border.
Wang Hun sent the governor of Yangzhou, Ying Chuo, to lead all the armies in the south to defeat them. He also defeated some other military camps and burned more than 1.8 million hu of grain, more than 4,000 hectares of rice seedlings, and more than 600 ships that the Wu people had accumulated.
Wang Yun then deployed his troops on the eastern border to understand the dangers of the terrain, watched the enemy cities one by one, and inspected the situation of the attack.
After a large-scale crusade against Wu, Wang Hun led his troops from Hengjiang and sent soldiers Chen Shen and captain Zhang Qiao to attack Xunyangse Township. He also attacked Wuya gate general Kong Zhong and defeated them all, capturing Wu general Zhou Xing and five others.
He also sent Li Chun, the protector of Wu, to occupy Gaowang City and attack Wu general Yu Gong. He defeated him, killed many of them and captured many.
Wu Liwu's general Chen Dai and Pinglu general Zhu Ming came to surrender out of fear.
Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti, General Sun Zhen and others led tens of thousands of troops towards Chengyang. Wang Hun sent Sima Sunchou and Yangzhou Governor Zhou Jun to defeat them. They killed two generals in front of the battle and beheaded 7,800 people. The Wu people were very frightened.
Sun Hao's Situ He Zhi and Jianwei General Sun Yan sent Guanyin Fujie to Wang Hun to surrender.
Later, Wang Jun broke through the stone and made Sun Hao surrender, gaining even greater prestige and fame.
The next day, Wang Hunchai crossed the river and boarded Jianye Palace to hold a banquet.
Thinking that he would occupy the river first and defeat Sun Hao's central army, he stood still and fell behind Wang Jun.
He felt very ashamed and jealous, and seemed unconvinced. He reported Wang Jun's crimes many times, and the people at the time ridiculed him.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou's military forces, General Andong, and the Marquis of Jingling Wang Hun led his army to advance to Moling, which made the enemy Sun Hao save his own life and defend himself, and was unable to divide his troops and rush upstream, thus achieving the success of the Western Army. He also destroyed the enemy and captured Zhang Ti, leaving Sun Hao with no choice but to tie himself up and beg to surrender.
So he pacified Moling and made outstanding achievements.
Eight more households were added to the fiefdom, he was promoted to the title of Duke, his son Wang Cheng was made Tinghou, his younger brother Wang Zhan was Guanneihou, and he was given eight thousand pieces of silk.
He was transferred to General Zhengshu and guarded Shouyang.
Wang Hun does not believe in criminal status and is fair and decisive in dealing with matters.
At that time, the Wu people had just surrendered and were very fearful.
Wang Hun comforted the strangers and sincerely comforted and accepted them. There were no empty seats in the seats and no guests lingering in front of the door.
Therefore, there are no people in Jiang Shu who are not happy to rely on him.
He was conscripted and appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
It happened that the courtiers were discussing that King Sima You of Qi should go to the vassal state. Wang Hun wrote a letter to advise: Accept the edict respectfully, follow the ancient laws, promote King Sima You of Qi to the rank of superior, uphold the etiquette towards him, and send Sima You to the vassal state.
In the past, when the Zhou family founded the country, they granted the surname Ji to shield the royal family, and they followed suit from generation to generation.
As for Gong Dan, he was the younger brother of King Yuan. He was in charge of the king's affairs and assisted in the great cause, and he was not allowed to go to the vassal state.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
明至亲义著，不可远朝故也。
是故周公得以圣德光弼幼主，忠诚著于《金縢》，光述文武仁圣之德。
攸于大晋，姬旦之亲也。
宜赞皇朝，与闻政事，实为陛下腹心不贰之臣。
且攸为人，修洁义信，加以懿亲，志存忠贞。
今陛下出攸之国，假以都督虚号，而无典戎干方之实，去离天朝，不预王政。
伤母弟至亲之体，亏友于款笃之义，惧非陛下追述先帝、文明太后待攸之宿意也。
若以攸望重，于事宜出者，今以汝南王亮代攸。
亮，宣皇帝子，文皇帝弟，伷、骏各处方任，有内外之资，论以后虑，亦不为轻。
攸今之国，适足长异同之论，以损仁慈之美耳。
而令天下窥陛下有不崇亲亲之情，臣窃为陛下不取也。
若以妃后外亲，任以朝政，则有王氏倾汉之权，吕产专朝之祸。
若以同姓至亲，则有吴楚七国逆乱之殃。
历观古今，苟事轻重，所在无不为害也。
不可事事曲设疑防，虑方来之患者也。唯当任正道而求忠良。
若以智计猜物，虽亲见疑，至于疏远者亦何能自保乎！
人怀危惧，非为安之理。此最有国有家者之深忌也。
愚以为太子太保缺，宜留攸居之，与太尉汝南王亮、卫将军杨珧共为保傅，干理朝事。
三人齐位，足相持正，进有辅纳广义之益，退无偏重相倾之势。
令陛下有笃亲亲之恩，使攸蒙仁覆之惠。
臣同国休戚，义在尽言，心之所见，不能默已。
私慕鲁女存国之志，敢陈愚见，触犯天威。
欲陛下事每尽善，冀万分之助。
臣而不言，谁当言者。 帝不纳。
太熙初，迁司徒。
translation: 
This shows that the close relatives have obvious moral principles and cannot stay away from the court.
Therefore, the Duke of Zhou was able to shine with his holy virtues and help the young king. His loyalty was recorded in "Jin Teng" and he followed the virtues of King Wen and Wu Renyi.
Sima You has as close a relationship with Da Jin as Ji Dan.
He should support the dynasty and participate in political affairs. He is really a loyal minister of His Majesty.
Moreover, Sima You was a noble and honest man, and he was a relative of the royal family, so he was loyal.
Now His Majesty sent Sima You to the vassal state, giving him the false title of governor, but without the actual power to mobilize troops to govern, and to stay away from the court. Do not participate in government affairs.
Injuring the decency of the closest relatives of the same mother, and damaging the morality of brotherly love and loyalty, I am afraid that Your Majesty will not be able to follow the wishes of the late Emperor and the Queen Mother Wenming in treating Sima You Pingsu.
If Sima You should be dispatched due to national concerns because of his great reputation, Sima Liang, King of Runan, can now be used to replace Sima You.
Sima Liang was the son of Emperor Xuan and the younger brother of Emperor Wen. Sima Dian and Sima Jun each had important responsibilities and were highly respected both inside and outside the court. When it came to worries about the future, they were not minor.
If Sima You is allowed to go to the feudal state, it will just encourage the disparity between closeness and distance, and damage the reputation of the monarch's kindness.
Let the world see that Your Majesty does not advocate kindness to relatives, I secretly think that His Majesty's behavior is not advisable.
If it is believed that handing over the government affairs to the concubines and relatives, there will be the danger of the Wang family losing power to the Han Dynasty, and the disaster of Lu Chan's monopoly power.
If a close relative with the same surname is appointed, there will be disasters such as the rebellion of Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms.
Throughout the ages, as long as the matter is of great importance, it may cause disaster.
You can't be suspicious of everything or worry about the disaster that will happen. You should only use the right path to search for loyalty.
If you are suspicious of others out of scheming, even your relatives will be suspected, so how can people who are not related to each other protect themselves?
Having a sense of fear in people's hearts is not a way to achieve stability. This is something that those who rule a country should deeply avoid.
I think that since the crown prince is short of security guards, Sima You should be retained in this post, and should serve as security guards together with Taiwei Runan Wang Sima Liang and Wei General Yang Jue to take care of the government affairs.
The three people have equal official positions, which is enough to support and correct each other. Furthermore, they have the benefit of assisting Na Yan to promote morality. To say the least, there is no preference for one side to compete with each other.
May Your Majesty have the grace to be kind to his relatives, and may Sima You receive the grace of benevolence and righteousness.
I am closely related to the fate of the country. I am morally required to say what I have to say, and I cannot remain silent about what is in my heart.
Privately, he admired Lu Nu's patriotic ambition and ventured to state his own opinions, thus offending Tianwei.
I want His Majesty to do everything perfectly, and I hope I can do my best.
If I don’t say it, who should? The emperor did not accept it.
In the early years of Taixi's reign, he was appointed Situ.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
惠帝即位，加侍中，又京陵置士官，如睢陵比。
及诛杨骏，崇重旧臣，乃加浑兵。
浑以司徒文官，主史不持兵，持兵乃吏属绛衣。
自以偶因时宠，权得持兵，非是旧典，皆令皁服。
论者美其谦而识体。
楚王玮将害汝南王亮等也。公孙宏说玮曰： 昔宣帝废曹爽，引太尉蒋济参乘，以增威重。
大王今举非常事，宜得宿望，镇厌众心。
司徒王浑宿有威名，为三军所信服，可请同乘，使物情有凭也。
玮从之。
浑辞疾归第，以家兵千余人闭门距玮。
玮不敢逼。
俄而玮以矫诏伏诛，浑乃率兵赴官。
帝尝访浑元会问郡国计吏方俗之宜，浑奏曰： 陛下钦明圣哲，光于远近，明诏冲虚，询及刍荛，斯乃周文畴咨之求，仲尼不耻下问也。
旧三朝元会前计吏诣轩下，侍中读诏，计吏跪受。
臣以诏文相承已久，无他新声，非陛下留心方国之意也。
可令中书指宣明诏，问方土异同，贤才秀异，风俗好尚，农桑本务，刑狱得无冤滥，守长得无侵虐。
其勤心政化兴利除害者，授以纸笔，尽意陈闻。
以明圣指垂心四远，不复因循常辞。
且察其答对文义，以观计吏人才之实。
又先帝时，正会后东堂见征镇长史司马、诸王国卿、诸州别驾。
今若不能别见，可前诣轩下，使侍中宣问，以审察方国，于事为便。
帝然之。
又诏浑录尚书事。
浑所历之职，前后著称，及居台辅，声望日减。
元康七年薨，时年七十五，谥曰元。
translation: 
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, he was granted the rank of servants and appointed non-commissioned officers in Jingling, just like Suiling.
After Yang Jun was killed and his old ministers were respected, Wang Hun was given a military post.
Wang Hun said that because Situ was a civilian official, he was in charge of the history of the country and did not command the army. When he commanded the army, the officials wore red clothes.
Thinking that he had been favored by chance and had the power to take charge of the army, which was inconsistent with the old regulations, he ordered everyone to wear black clothes.
Commentators praised him for his humility and general knowledge.
King Sima Zhang of Chu was about to kill Sima Liang, King of Runan, and others. Gongsun Hong advised Sima Zhang: In the past, Emperor Xuan deposed Cao Shuang and summoned Taiwei Jiang Ji to accompany him to increase his majesty.
Now that the king is doing unusual things, there should be mature and famous people to suppress everyone's hearts.
Situ Wang Hunping has a reputation and is convinced by the three armies. He can be invited to ride with him to make people rely on him.
Sima Zhang obeyed him.
Wang Hun claimed to be ill and returned to his residence, where he sent more than a thousand soldiers to resist Sima Zhang behind closed doors.
Sima Zhang did not dare to force him.
Soon Sima Zhang was killed for falsely conveying the imperial edict, and Wang Hun led his troops to take office.
The emperor once consulted Wang Hun on how to inquire about customs and customs from the county planners during the New Year's Day meeting. Wang Hun reported: Your Majesty's sage is bright, illuminating far and near. His enlightened edicts dilute the quietness, and he consults with the common people. This is like King Wen of Zhou's visit to all directions, and the shameless questioning of the emperor.
In the past three dynasties, before the New Year's Day meeting, the planners came to the front of the palace. The servants read Shao Shu, and the planners knelt down to receive the Shao script.
I think the edict has been passed down for a long time and has no new ideas. It is not in line with His Majesty’s original intention of paying attention to the vassal states in all directions.
You can ask Zhongshu to read out the Shao Shu by name, and ask about the similarities and differences in the four places, the status of talents, the admiration of customs, the situation of farming and mulberry trees, whether there are injustices and abuses in prisons, and whether there are plunders and tyranny in local palaces.
For those who are dedicated to political enlightenment to bring about benefits and eliminate harms, give them paper and pen and write down everything they know.
This shows that the Holy One cares about all directions and will no longer follow previous words.
Moreover, the literary meaning of their answers was examined to observe the actual talents of the planners.
In addition, during the reign of the late emperor, after the New Year's Day meeting in Shutang, he met with the mayor of the town, Shi Sima, the ministers of various kingdoms, and the farewell officials from various states.
If you can't see him now, you can call him to the front of the palace and send your attendants to express condolences, so as to inspect the four vassal states. This is also convenient in form.
The emperor agreed to Wang Hun's memorial.
He also issued an edict and ordered Wang Hun to record the affairs of the minister.
Wang Hun had always been famous in the positions he held, but when he became the prime minister in the palace, his reputation gradually declined.
Yuan Kang died in the seventh year of his reign at the age of seventy-five, and his name was Yuan.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
长子尚早亡，次子济嗣。
济字武子。
少有逸才，风姿英爽，气盖一时，好弓马，勇力绝人，善《易》及《庄》、《老》，文词俊茂，伎艺过人，有名当世，与姊夫和峤及裴楷齐名。
尚常山公主。
年二十，起家拜中书郎，以母忧去官。
起为骁骑将军，累迁侍中，与侍中孔恂、王恂、杨济同列，为一时秀彦。
武帝尝会公卿籓牧于式乾殿，顾济、恂而谓诸公曰： 朕左右可谓恂恂济济矣！
每侍见，未尝不谘论人物及万机得失。
济善于清言，修饰辞令，讽议将顺，朝臣莫能尚焉。帝益亲贵之。
仕进虽速，论者不以主婿之故，咸谓才能致之。
然外虽弘雅，而内多忌刻，好以言伤物，侪类以此少之。
以其父之故，每排王濬，时议讥焉。
齐王攸当之籓，济既陈请，又累使公主与甄德妻长广公主俱入，稽颡泣请帝留攸。
帝怒谓侍中王戎曰： 兄弟至亲，今出齐王，自是朕家事，而甄德、王济连遣妇来生哭人！
以忤旨，左迁国子祭酒，常侍如故。
数年，入为侍中。
时浑为仆射，主者处事或不当，济性峻厉，明法绳之。
素与从兄佑不平，佑党颇谓济不能顾其父，由是长同异之言。
出为河南尹，未拜，坐鞭王官吏免官。而王佑始见委任。
而济遂被斥外，于是乃移第北芒山下。
性豪侈，丽服玉食。
时洛京地甚贵，济买地为马埒，编钱满之，时人谓为 金沟 。
王恺以帝舅奢豪，有牛名 八百里驳 ，常莹其蹄角。
济请以钱千万与牛对射而赌之。
恺亦自恃其能，令济先射。
一发破的，因据胡床，叱左右速探牛心来，须臾而至，一割便去。
和峤性至俭，家有好李，帝求之，不过数十。
济候其上直，率少年诣园，共啖毕，伐树而去。
帝尝幸其宅，供馔甚丰，悉贮琉璃器中。
蒸肫甚美，帝问其故，答曰： 以人乳蒸之。
帝色甚不平，食未毕而去。
济善解马性，尝乘一马，著连乾鄣泥，前有水，终不肯渡。
济云： 此必是惜鄣泥。
使人解去，便渡。
故杜预谓济有马癖。
帝尝谓和峤曰： 我将骂济而后官爵之，何如？
峤曰： 济俊爽，恐不可屈。
帝因召济，切让之，既而曰： 知愧不？
济答曰： 尺布斗粟之谣，常为陛下耻之。
他人能令亲疏，臣不能使亲亲，以此愧陛下耳。
帝默然。
帝尝与济弈棋，而孙皓在侧，谓皓曰： 何以好剥人面皮？
皓曰： 见无礼于君者则剥之。
济时伸脚局下，而皓讥焉。
寻使白衣领太仆。
translation: 
The eldest son Wang Shang died early, and the second son Wang Ji succeeded him.
Wang Ji, courtesy name Wuzi.
When he was young, he had superhuman talents, was handsome and bold, and his spirit was beyond compare. He likes to bow and arrow and ride horses. His bravery is unmatched. He is good at "Yi", "Zhuang" and "Lao". His writing is beautiful and his skills are superhuman. He is famous in the world, and he is as famous as his brother-in-law He Wei and Pei Kai.
Married Princess Changshan.
At the age of twenty, he was called away from home to serve as Zhongshu Lang and resigned in mourning for his mother.
He was appointed as a general of valiant cavalry, and was gradually promoted to the rank of servant. He was in the same official rank as the servants Kong Xun, Wang Xun and Yang Ji, and became a hero of his time.
Emperor Wu once met with ministers and local governors in the Shiqian Hall. Looking at Erji and Erxun, he said to the ministers: My right and left servants can be said to be docile and respectful.
Every time the servants come to see him, they always discuss the gains and losses of people and various things.
Wang Nai was good at talking, eloquent, and sarcastic. No courtier could surpass him, and the emperor valued him more closely.
Although he was promoted quickly, those who commented did not think it was because of Weng's son-in-law. They all said that he was achieved through talent.
However, although he looks magnanimous and elegant on the outside, he is very jealous and harsh on the inside and likes to hurt others with words, so people around him despise him.
Because of his father, Wang Jun was often excluded, and the discussions at that time ridiculed him.
King Sima You of Qi was about to go to the vassal state. After Wang Ji stated his request, he repeatedly asked the princess to enter the palace with Princess Changguang, Zhen De's wife, and kowtowed and cried, begging the emperor to keep Sima You.
The emperor angrily said to his attendant Wang Rong: "Brothers have the closest relationship. Now sending the King of Qi is naturally a matter for my family." And Zhen De and Wang Ji sent women one after another to cry to death!
Due to his disobedience to the imperial edict, he was demoted to the post of Prince of the State to offer wine, but his position as a regular attendant remained unchanged.
A few years later, he entered the palace and served as a servant.
At that time, Wang Hun was a servant, and his boss sometimes handled things improperly. Wang Ji was strict by nature and punished him according to law.
Wang Jiping had always been at odds with his cousin Wang You. Wang You's party members believed that Wang Liao did not care about his father too much, so they encouraged different opinions.
He took up the post of Henan Yin, but before he took office, he was found guilty of whipping an auxiliary official in the palace and was dismissed from office. Wang Youzheng was appointed.
Shan Shan was dismissed from the court, so Wang Ji moved his family to the foot of Beimang Mountain.
Wang Ji was extravagant by nature and was very particular about food and clothing.
At that time, the land price in Luojing was very high. Wang Ji bought the land and used it as a riding and shooting track. He put the money together to pave the track. People at the time called it "Jingou".
Because Wang Kai was the emperor's uncle, he was extravagant and luxurious. He had a cow named "Eight Hundred Miles Pier", and the horns of the cow's hooves were often decorated.
Wang Ji proposed to use 10 million yuan as a bet and a cow to compete in archery.
Wang Kai thought he was capable and asked Wang Ji to shoot first.
As soon as Wang Ji hit the target, he sat on the throne and yelled at everyone to quickly get the heart of the cow. In a blink of an eye, he arrived, cut it off with a knife, and left.
He Wei was very frugal by nature and had a good plum tree at home. The emperor asked for it but only gave him dozens of it.
While Wang Ji was on duty with Wei, he led the young man to the orchard, ate together, and cut down the plum tree before leaving.
The emperor once visited Wang Ji's residence and served him a sumptuous meal, all of which was served in glassware.
Steamed gizzards tasted very good. When the emperor asked why, he replied: Steamed with human milk.
The emperor looked very unhappy and left before finishing his meal.
Wang Ji knew the temperament of horses very well. He once rode a horse that was covered with dry mud. There was water in front of it, but the horse refused to cross.
Wang Zha said: This must be because he is reluctant to give up the clay.
He was asked to let go, and the horse crossed the water.
Therefore, Du Yu said that Wang Ji had a hobby of loving horses.
The emperor once said to Qi Ku: I want to scold Wang Liao and then give him an official title. How about that?
He Wei said: Wang Ji is generous and generous, I'm afraid I can't wrong him.
The emperor then summoned Wang Ji, scolded him deeply, and then said: Do you know how ashamed you are?
Wang Ji replied: Brothers are incompatible. I am always ashamed of your majesty.
Others can alienate their relatives, but I cannot let my relatives get close. I am ashamed of Your Majesty for this.
The emperor remained silent.
The emperor once played chess with Wang Ji, and Sun Hao was beside him. The emperor said to Zhubi: Why do you like to skin people?
Sun Hao said: If you see someone who is rude to the king, skin him.
Wang Ji put his feet under the chessboard, so Sun Hao ridiculed Wang Ji.
Soon he was made a civilian and served as a servant.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
年四十六，先浑卒，追赠骠骑将军。
及其将葬，时贤无不毕至。
孙楚雅敬济，而后来，哭之甚悲，宾客莫不垂涕。
哭毕，向灵床曰： 卿常好我作驴鸣，我为卿作之。
体似声真，宾客皆笑。
楚顾曰： 诸君不死，而令王济死乎！
初，济尚主，主两目失明，而妒忌尤甚，然终无子，有庶子二人。
卓字文宣，嗣浑爵，拜给事中。
次聿，字茂宣，袭公主封敏阳侯。
济二弟，澄字道深，汶字茂深，皆辩慧有才藻，并历清显。
王濬，字士治，弘农湖人也。
家世二千石。
濬博坟典，美姿貌，不修名行，不为乡曲所称。
晚乃变节，疏通亮达，恢廓有大志。
尝起宅，开门前路广数十步。
人或谓之何太过，濬曰： 吾欲使容长戟幡旗。
众咸笑之，濬曰： 陈胜有言，燕雀安知鸿鹄之志。
州郡辟河东从事。
守令有不廉洁者，皆望风自引而去。
刺史燕国徐邈有女才淑，择夫未嫁。
邈乃大会佐吏，令女于内观之。
女指濬告母，邈遂妻之。
后参征南军事，羊祜深知待之。
祜兄子暨白祜： 濬为人志太，奢侈不节，不可专任，宜有以裁之。
祜曰： 濬有大才，将欲济其所欲，必可用也。
转车骑从事中郎，识者谓祜可谓能举善焉。
除巴郡太守。
郡边吴境，兵士苦役，生男多不养。
濬乃严其科条，宽其徭课，其产育者皆与休复，所全活者数千人。
转广汉太守，垂惠布政，百姓赖之。
濬夜梦悬三刀于卧屋梁上，须臾又益一刀，濬警觉，意甚恶之。
主簿李毅再拜贺曰： 三刀为州字，又益一者，明府其临益州乎？
及贼张弘杀益州刺史皇甫晏，果迁濬为益州刺史。
濬设方略，悉诛弘等，以勋封关内侯。
translation: 
At the age of forty-six, he died before Wang Yun, and was posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
When it was about to be buried, all the wise men of that time came.
Sun Chu respected Wang Ji very much. He came late and cried very sadly. All the guests shed tears.
After crying, he said to the coffin: You often like me to bray like a donkey, so I will bray for you.
I learned that the shape is similar and the voice is lifelike, and the guests all laughed.
Yaochu looked back at them and said: You didn't die, but Wang Zha died!
At the beginning, Wang Ji married a princess. The princess was blind and very jealous. However, she never had children. She had two sons by his concubine.
The king, named Seixuan, inherited the title of Yuyun and paid homage to Shizhong.
The second son, Wang Lou, whose courtesy name was Jianxuan, succeeded the princess and was given the title of Qian Dancai.
Wang Zha has two younger brothers, Wang Tuo, whose courtesy name is Su, and Wang, who has a short stem. They are both good at talking, intelligent and literary, and both have held high and noble positions.
Wang Jun, courtesy name Shizhi, was from Hongnong Lake.
Someone in the family has been a prefect.
Wang Jun was well-read in ancient books and had a handsome appearance. He did not pay attention to reputation and conduct, and was not praised by the villagers.
Later, I changed my moral integrity, became open-minded and had great ambitions.
Once a house was built, dozens of steps were left in front of the door.
Someone asked him why he left too much space. Wang Jun said: I want to allow halberds and flags to be accommodated in front of the door.
Everyone laughed at him, and Wang Jun said: "Chen Sheng once said, how can the sparrow know the ambition of the swan?"
The state and county recruited him to work in Hedong.
Those who were dishonest among the officials all left on their own after hearing the news.
Xu Miao, a native of the state of Yan, the governor, had a daughter, Shu Xian, who was talented and unmarried.
Xu Miao gathered his subordinate officials in a grand ceremony and asked his daughter to watch them in their buns.
The daughter pointed at Wang Jun and told her mother, so Xu Miao married her daughter to him.
Later, when he participated in the Southern Military Campaign, Yang Hu understood and treated him favorably.
Yang Ji, the son of Yang Hu's elder brother, said to Yang Hu: Wang Jun's ambitions as a man are too excessive, his extravagance is intemperate, and he cannot be trusted too much. He should be restricted.
Yang Hu said: Wang Jun has a great talent. I will help him realize his wish and I will definitely use him.
He was transferred to the position of charioteer and knight, and knowledgeable people said that Yang Hu could recommend talented people.
He was appointed as the governor of Bajun.
Bajun is adjacent to the border with Wu State. The soldiers are hard at work and most of the boys are not supported.
Wang Jun then made the regulations strict and the corvee loose. Those who gave birth were allowed to rest and exempted from the corvee. Thousands of people survived in this way.
He was transferred to the post of governor of Guanghan and implemented benevolent and benevolent policies, and the people relied on him.
Wang Jun dreamed of three knives hanging on the beam in his bedroom at night, and then another knife was added. Wang Jun woke up with a start, hating this dream in his heart.
Li Yi, the chief registrar, paid two obeisances to congratulate him and said: "The three knives are the characters for state. One more sword has been added. I'm afraid you are going to Yizhou?"
When the thief Zhang Hong killed Huangfu Yan, the governor of Yizhou, he transferred Wang Jun to be the governor of Yizhou.
Wang Jun planned to kill Zhang Hong and others, and was named a Marquis of Guannei for their meritorious services.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
怀辑殊俗，待以威信，蛮夷徼外，多来归降。
征拜右卫将军，除大司农。
车骑将军羊祜雅知濬有奇略，乃密表留濬，于是重拜益州刺史。
武帝谋伐吴，诏濬修舟舰。
濬乃作大船连舫，方百二十步，受二千余人。
以木为城，起楼橹，开四出门，其上皆得驰马来往。
又画鹢首怪兽于船首，以惧江神。
舟楫之盛，自古未有。
濬造船于蜀，其木柿蔽江而下。
吴建平太守吾彦取流柿以呈孙皓曰： 晋必有攻吴之计，宜增建平兵。
建平不下，终不敢渡。
皓不从。
寻以谣言拜濬为龙骧将军、监梁益诸军事。
语在《羊祜传》。
时朝议咸谏伐吴，濬乃上疏曰： 臣数参访吴楚同异，孙皓荒淫凶逆，荆扬贤愚无不嗟怨。
且观时运，宜速征伐。
若今不伐，天变难预。
令皓卒死，更立贤主，文武各得其所，则强敌也。
臣作船七年，日有朽败，又臣年已七十，死亡无日。
三者一乖，则难图也，诚愿陛下无失事机。
帝深纳焉。
贾充、荀勖陈谏以为不可，唯张华固劝。
又杜预表请，帝乃发诏，分命诸方节度。
濬于是统兵。
先在巴郡之所全育者，皆堪徭役供军，其父母戒之曰： 王府君生尔，尔必勉之，无爱死也！
太康元年正月，濬发自成都，率巴东监军、广武将军唐彬攻吴丹杨，克之，擒其丹杨监盛纪。
吴人于江险碛要害之处，并以铁锁横截之，又作铁锥长丈余，暗置江中，以逆距船。
先是，羊祜获吴间谍，具知情状。
translation: 
To appease different customs and treat others with dignity and trust, most of the foreigners from outside the country came to submit and surrender.
He was conscripted and appointed as a right-guard general, and appointed as a minister of agriculture.
Yang Hu, the general of chariots and cavalry, knew that Wang Jun had a strange plan, so he secretly asked Wang Jun to retain him, and he was appointed governor of Yizhou.
Emperor Wu planned to attack Wu and issued an edict to Wang Jun to build boats.
Wang Jun then built large ships connected to each other, one hundred and twenty paces square, carrying more than two thousand people.
The city was built with wood, raised on a high platform, and opened gates to all directions. People could ride horses on the city.
He also painted the heads of falcons and monsters on the bows to intimidate the river god.
The scale of the boats was unprecedented since ancient times.
Wang Jun built ships in Sichuan, and the cut wood pieces covered the river and drifted downstream.
Wu Yan, the prefect of Wu Jianping, took the pieces of wood and presented them to Sun Hao, saying: Jin must have a plan to attack Wu, and Jianping's troops should be increased.
Jianping was not captured, and the Jin army finally did not dare to cross the river.
Sun Hao didn't listen.
Soon, due to rumors, Wang Jun was given the title of General Long Xiang, supervising the military affairs of Liang and Yi.
The incident is recorded in "Yang Ku Zhuan".
At that time, all the discussions in the court discouraged the attack on Wu, so Wang Jun wrote a letter saying: I have investigated the similarities and differences between Wu and Chu many times. Sun Haohuang was lewd and violent, and everyone in Jingyang, whether wise or stupid, complained.
Moreover, observing the timing and luck, we should conquer quickly.
If we don't attack now, the changes in God's will will be unpredictable.
If Sun Hao suddenly dies, a wise king is replaced, and the civil servants and generals have their proper positions, then Wu will be a strong enemy.
I have been building the ship for seven years, and it will gradually become corrupted. Besides, I am already seventy years old, and my death is not far away.
If one of these three items does not go as planned, it will be difficult to make a plan. I sincerely hope that your Majesty will not lose the opportunity.
The emperor deeply accepted his opinion.
Jia Chong and Xun Xu stated their advice and advised that Wu should not be attacked. Only Zhang Hua persisted in persuading war.
In addition to Du Yu's request, the emperor issued a letter from Shao, assigning orders to all parties to control the festival.
Wang Jun then took command of the army.
Previously, those who had preserved their fertility in Bajun were able to serve as corvees to provide for the army. Their parents warned them: "Prefect Wang has given birth to you, you must work hard and don't be reluctant to die!"
In the first month of the first year of Taikang, Wang Jun sent troops from Chengdu and led the Badong Supervisory Army and Guangwu General Tang Bin to attack Danyang of Wu State, captured Nahuo, and captured Danyang Supervisor Shengji.
The Wu people used iron locks to cut off the Yangtze River in dangerous and critical places, and made iron cones more than ten feet long, which were secretly placed in the river to block ships head-on.
Before attacking Wu, Yang Hu captured Wu spies and fully understood the situation.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
濬乃作大筏数十，亦方百余步，缚草为人，被甲持杖，令善水者以筏先行，筏遇铁锥，锥辄著筏去。
又作火炬，长十余丈，大数十围，灌以麻油，在船前，遇锁，然炬烧之，须臾，融液断绝，于是船无所碍。
二月庚申，克吴西陵，获其镇南将军留宪、征南将军成据、宜都太守虞忠。
壬戌，克荆门、夷道二城，获监军陆晏。
乙丑，克乐乡，获水军督陆景。
平西将军施洪等来降。
乙亥，诏进濬为平东将军、假节、都督益梁诸军事。
濬自发蜀，兵不血刃，攻无坚城，夏口、武昌，无相支抗。
于是顺流鼓棹，径造三山。
皓遣游击将军张象率舟军万人御濬，象军望旗而降。
皓闻濬军旌旗器甲，属天满江，威势甚盛，莫不破胆。
用光禄薛莹、中书令胡冲计，送降文于濬曰： 吴郡孙皓叩头死罪。
昔汉室失御，九州幅裂，先人因时略有江南，遂阻山河，与魏乖隔。
大晋龙兴，德覆四海，暗劣偷安，未喻天命。
至于今者，猥烦六军，衡盖露次，还临江渚。
举国震惶，假息漏刻，敢缘天朝，含弘光大。
谨遣私署太常张夔等奉所佩玺绶，委质请命。
壬寅，濬入于石头。
皓乃备亡国之礼，素车白马，肉袒面缚，衔璧牵羊，大夫衰服，士舆榇，率其伪太子瑾、瑾弟鲁王虔等二十一人，造于垒门。
濬躬解其缚，受璧焚榇，送于京师。
收其图籍，封其府库，军无私焉。
帝遣使者犒濬军。
初，诏书使濬下建平，受杜预节度，至秣陵，受王浑节度。
translation: 
Wang Jun then made dozens of large rafts, more than a hundred feet square, made of grass into human shapes, wore armor and carried weapons, and ordered people with good water skills to ride in front of the raft. When the raft encountered an iron cone, the iron cone pierced the raft and floated away.
He also made a torch, more than ten feet long, with a circumference of dozens of circumferences. Fill it with sesame oil and place it in front of the ship. When it encounters an iron lock, he lights the torch and burns it. After a while, it melts into liquid and cuts off, so there is no obstacle to the ship.
On Gengshen day in February, Wu Xiling was captured, and Wu Zhennan general Liu Xian, Zhengnan general Cheng Zhengzhi, and Yidu prefect Yu Zhong were captured.
Renxu said that he captured the two cities of Jingmen and Yidao and captured the supervisor Lu Yan.
Yichou captured Lexiang and captured Lu Jing, the naval commander.
General Pingxi Shi sent and others came to surrender.
On Yihai Day, Shaoshu promoted Wang Jun to the rank of General Pingdong, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of Yiliang's military affairs.
Since Wang Jun sent troops to Shu, the weapons have not seen blood, and there are no stubborn enemies in the siege. Xiakou and Wuchang do not support each other and resist each other.
So he paddled along the current and headed straight for the three mountains.
Sun Hao sent guerrilla general Zhang Xiang with ten thousand sailors to resist Wang Jun. Zhang Xiang's army surrendered after seeing the Jin army's battle flag.
Sun Hao heard that Wang Jun's army's flags, weapons and armor were connected to the sky, and they were all over the river. They were so powerful that everyone was frightened.
Adopting the strategy of Guang Luxun Xue Ying and Zhongshu Ling Hu Chong, they sent a surrender document to Wang Jun and said: Sun Hao of Wu County is guilty of death by kowtow.
In the past, the royal family of the Han Dynasty lost its rule and the nine states were divided. The ancestors occupied the south of the Yangtze River by virtue of the weather, so the mountains and rivers were blocked and isolated from the Wei Dynasty.
The Jin Dynasty was prosperous, and virtues spread all over the world. Wu was ignorant and ignorant of destiny.
As for today, Duoduo bothered the Sixth Army, slept in the wild, and came all the way to the small island in the middle of the river.
The whole country was shocked and frightened. They managed to survive for a while and took the liberty of climbing to the throne of heaven. They were magnanimous.
I respectfully dispatch Zhang Kui, Taichang of the Private Office, and others to present the jade seal ribbon I wear and hand over my life to you.
In Renyin, Wang Jun entered the stone.
Sun Hao then prepared the etiquette of subjugation, including white carriages and horses with bare limbs, hands tied behind their backs, jade in their mouths and sheep in their hands, the doctor wearing mourning clothes, and officials pulling the coffin in a cart. He led twenty-one people, including the pseudo-prince Sun Jin, Sun Jin's younger brother Lu Wang Sun Qian, to the gate of the military base.
Wang Jun bowed to loosen his bonds, accepted the jade and burned the coffin, and sent Sun Hao and others to the capital.
Received Wu's maps and books, sealed their treasury, and the army did not invade and occupy it.
The emperor sent an envoy to reward Wang Jun's army.
At first, Shaoshu ordered Wang Jun to capture Jianping and be controlled by Du Yu. When he arrived at Moling, he was controlled by Wang Hun.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
预至江陵，谓诸将帅曰： 若濬得下建平，则顺流长驱，威名已著，不宜令受制于我。
若不能克，则无缘得施节度。
濬至西陵，预与之书曰： 足下既摧其西籓，便当径取秣陵，讨累世之逋寇，释吴人于涂炭。
自江入淮，逾于泗汴，溯河而上，振旅还都，亦旷世一事也。
濬大悦，表呈预书。
及濬将至秣陵，王浑遣信要令暂过论事，濬举帆直指，报曰： 风利，不得泊也。
王浑久破皓中军，斩张悌等，顿兵不敢进。
而濬乘胜纳降，浑耻而且忿，乃表濬违诏不受节度，诬罪状之。
有司遂按濬槛车征，帝弗许，诏让濬曰： 伐国事重，宜令有一。
前诏使将军受安车将军浑节度，浑思谋深重，案甲以待将军。
云何径前，不从浑命，违制昧利，甚失大义。
将军功勋，简在朕心，当率由诏书，崇成王法，而于事终恃功肆意，朕将何以令天下？
濬上书自理曰：
臣前被庚戌诏书曰： 军人乘胜，猛气盆壮，便当顺流长骛，直造秣陵。
臣被诏之日，即便东下。
又前被诏书云 太尉贾充总统诸方，自镇东大将军伷及浑、濬、彬等皆受充节度 ，无令臣别受浑节度之文。
臣自连巴丘，所向风靡，知孙皓穷踧，势无所至。
十四日至牛渚，去秣陵二百里，宿设部分，为攻取节度。
前至三山，见浑军在北岸，遣书与臣，可暂来过，共有所议，亦不语臣当受节度之意。
臣水军风发，乘势造贼城，加宿设部分行有次第，无缘得于长流之中回船过浑，令首尾断绝。
须臾之间，皓遣使归命。
臣即报浑书，并写皓笺，具以示浑，使速来，当于石头相待。
军以日中至秣陵，暮乃被浑所下当受节度之符，欲令臣明十六日悉将所领，还围石头，备皓越逸。
又索蜀兵及镇南诸军人名定见。
臣以为皓已来首都亭，无缘共合空围。
又兵人定见，不可仓卒，皆非当今之急，不可承用。
translation: 
Du Yu arrived at Jiangling and said to the generals: If Wang Jun can capture Jianping, he can drive down the river. His reputation is already obvious, so it is not appropriate for him to be controlled by me.
If Jianping cannot be conquered, there will be no way to implement Jiedu.
When the dredging arrived in Xiling, Du Yu wrote to him: You have destroyed the western barrier of Wu State, so you should go directly to capture Moling, defeat the enemy invaders who have fled for generations, and save the Wu people from the disaster.
Entering the Huaihe River from the Yangtze River, crossing the Bianshui River, and going up the Yellow River to return to the capital in triumph, this is also an unprecedented undertaking.
Wang Jun was very happy and presented Du Yu's letter to the court.
When Wang Jun was about to arrive at Moling, Wang Hun sent a letter inviting Wang Jun to go and discuss military affairs temporarily. Wang Jun sailed straight down and reported: "The wind is favorable and the ship cannot be stopped."
Wang Hun had already defeated Sun Hao's central army, killed Zhang Ti and others, and did not dare to advance.
However, Wang Jun took advantage of the victory and surrendered. Wang Hun felt ashamed and resentful, so he reported that Wang Jun had violated the imperial edict and was not subject to restraint, and sued him on fabricated charges.
The relevant officials then wanted to use a carriage to conquer Wang Jun in accordance with the law, but the emperor did not allow it. He issued an edict to blame Wang Jun, saying: "The crusade against the enemy country is of great importance, and the orders should be unified."
Previously, I had written a letter to let the general accept the command of Anton general Wang Hun. Wang Hun had a far-reaching strategy and stood still waiting for the general.
Why go forward on your own, disobey Wang Hun's orders, go against the system and have no interest in it? It is very unjust.
The general's meritorious deeds are all recorded in my heart. Everything should be carried out in accordance with the imperial edict and the king's law should be respected and fulfilled. If everyone acts arbitrarily based on merit, how can I command the world?
Wang Jun wrote a letter stating his own reasoning:
I previously accepted the "Edict of Gengxu" and said: When a soldier takes advantage of a victory and becomes more courageous, he should push forward with the current and go straight to save the fallen.
The day I accepted the edict, I started to put it in.
In addition, the book of Shao previously stated that Taiwei Jia Chong was in charge of all parties. General Sima Dian, Wang Hun, Wang Jun, Tang Bin and others were all under the control of Jia Chong. He did not order me to accept Wang Hun Jiedu's writings.
Since I arrived at Baqiu, I have been invincible. I know that Sun Hao is in trouble and has no power.
On the 14th, we arrived at Niuzhu, two hundred miles away from Moling. We stationed ourselves there and prepared for the attack.
Advancing to Sanshan, I saw Wang Hun's army on the north bank. He sent me a letter, saying that I could stay at his place for a short time and discuss matters together. He did not say that I should be controlled by him.
My navy worked hard and took advantage of the momentum to rush to the enemy city. In addition, the deployment and march were not in order, and they were unable to turn the bow of the ship to Wang Hun in the mighty river, causing the fleet to be cut off from head to tail.
In the blink of an eye, Sun Hao sent an envoy to surrender.
I immediately replied to Wang Hun's letter and copied Sun Hao's letter. I gave them to Wang Hun Yumu and asked him to come quickly. I will wait for him at Shitou.
The army arrived at Moling at noon, and at dusk they received orders from Wang Hun to accept his orders. He wanted to order me to lead all my troops back on the 16th day of the next day to surround Shitou to prevent Sun Hao from escaping.
He also asked for the names of soldiers from the Shu army and Zhennan to make an appointment to meet.
I think Sun Hao has come to Duting to avenge his crime, so there is no need to join the futile siege.
Besides, when soldiers agree to meet, they cannot be hasty, and it is not an urgent matter at the moment, so they cannot accept orders.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
中诏谓臣忽弃明制，专擅自由。
伏读严诏，惊怖悚忄栗，不知躯命当所投厝。
岂惟老臣独怀战灼，三军上下咸尽丧气。
臣受国恩，任重事大，常恐托付不效，孤负圣朝，故投身死地，转战万里，被蒙宽恕之恩，得从临履之宜。是以凭赖威灵，幸而能济，皆是陛下神策庙算。
臣承指授，效鹰犬之用耳，有何勋劳而恃功肆意，宁敢昧利而违圣诏。
臣以十五日至秣陵，而诏书以十六日起洛阳，其间悬阔，不相赴接，则臣之罪责宜蒙察恕。
假令孙皓犹有螳螂举斧之势，而臣轻军单入，有所亏丧，罪之可也。
臣所统八万余人，乘胜席卷。
皓以众叛亲离，无复羽翼，匹夫独立，不能庇其妻子，雀鼠贪生，苟乞一活耳。
而江北诸军不知其虚实，不早缚取，自为小误。
臣至便得，更见怨恚，并云守贼百日，而令他人得之，言语噂沓，不可听闻。
案《春秋》之义，大夫出疆，由有专辄。
臣虽愚蠢，以为事君之道，唯当竭节尽忠，奋不顾身，量力受任，临事制宜，苟利社稷，死生以之。
若其顾护嫌疑，以避咎责，此是人臣不忠之利，实非明主社稷之福也。
臣不自料，忘其鄙劣，披布丹心，输写肝脑，欲竭股肱之力，加之以忠贞，庶必扫除凶逆，清一宇宙，愿令圣世与唐虞比隆。
陛下粗察臣之愚款，而识其欲自效之诚，是以授臣以方牧之任，委臣以征讨之事。
虽燕主之信乐毅，汉祖之任萧何，无以加焉。
受恩深重，死且不报，而以顽疏，举错失宜。
陛下弘恩，财加切让，惶怖怔营，无地自厝，愿陛下明臣赤心而已。
浑又腾周浚书，云濬军得吴宝物。
濬复表曰：
被壬戌诏书，下安东将所上扬州刺史周浚书，谓臣诸军得孙皓宝物，又谓牙门将李高放火烧皓伪宫。
辄公文上尚书，具列本末。
translation: 
Shaoshu said that I ignored the system and acted arbitrarily.
After reading the stern edict, I was terrified and trembling, not knowing what my fate would be.
I am not the only one who harbors fear. All the three armies have lost their spirit.
I enjoy the grace of the country and have great responsibilities, but I am often afraid of living up to the emperor's trust and being sorry to the court. Therefore, he devoted himself to the dangerous battlefield, fought thousands of miles, received the grace of forgiveness, and had the convenience to act according to the opportunity. Therefore, he relied on his power and luck to succeed. It was all his majesty's miraculous calculations.
I followed the instructions and just followed the work of an eagle and a dog. What meritorious achievements can I make to let me indulge myself based on my merits? Do I dare to violate the imperial edict out of ignorance of my own interests?
I arrived at Moling on the 15th, and the edict was issued from Luoyang on the 16th. This period was long and not connected, so my guilt should be considered and forgiven.
If Sun Hao still has the momentum of a mantis raising his axe, and I lead my light army to attack on my own, resulting in losses and deaths, I can be punished.
More than 80,000 people under my command pursued the victory.
Sun Hao has betrayed his relatives, has no accomplices anymore, is alone, cannot protect his wife and children, and is greedy for life, just trying to survive.
However, the armies in the north of the Yangtze River did not know the reality of the Wu state, and it was a small mistake not to capture it early.
I was about to succeed, but I was even more resented by others. They said that I would wait for the enemy for a hundred days, while others got the credit. The comments were mixed and hard to listen to.
According to the principles of the Spring and Autumn Annals, when officials go out, they still have autonomy.
Although I am stupid, I believe that the morality of serving the king is to be loyal and loyal, to accept tasks according to ability, to formulate countermeasures according to ability, and to live or die as long as it is beneficial to the country.
If you are worried about incurring suspicion and avoid responsibility, this is the benefit of a disloyal minister, and it is not a blessing for a wise monarch and his court.
I am not overestimating my abilities, and regardless of my low status, I reveal my daring loyalty and tell the truth about my loyalty at the risk of my life. I hope that I can use my strength to assist the ministers and be loyal. I hope that I will be able to eliminate the fierce enemies and rebellion, unify and stabilize the world, and may the Holy World be as prosperous as Yao, Yu and Shun of Tang Dynasty.
His Majesty is generally aware of my honesty and loyalty, and also knows my sincerity in serving, so he has given me the important task of governing the country and entrusted me with the important task of conquest.
Even if Lord Yan trusts Le Yi and Han Zu trusts Xiao He, they cannot exceed your trust in me.
The kindness I received was so great that it would take my life to repay it, but I acted inappropriately due to my stubbornness and negligence.
Your Majesty is very gracious and only blames me. I am terrified and ashamed. I hope your Majesty understands my absolute loyalty.
Wang Hun wrote to Zhou Jun, saying that Wang Jun's army had obtained Wu's treasure.
Wang Jun went to the table again and said:
Following the "Edict of Renxu", I sent a letter from General Anton to Qie Qi, the governor of Qiangye, saying that the army under my command had received the physical object of chasing the pedal, and that General Li Gao of Yamen had set fire to Sun Bi's puppet palace.
He wrote an official document and submitted it to the minister, listing all the circumstances.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
又闻浑案陷上臣。
臣受性愚忠，行事举动，信心而前，期于不负神明而已。
秣陵之事，皆如前所表，而恶直丑正，实繁有徒，欲构南箕，成此贝锦，公于圣世，反白为黑。
夫佞邪害国，自古而然。
故无极破楚，宰嚭灭吴，及至石显，倾乱汉朝，皆载在典籍，为世所戒。
昔乐毅伐齐，下城七十，而卒被谗间，脱身出奔。
乐羊既反，谤书盈箧。
况臣顽疏，能免谗慝之口！
然所望全其首领者，实赖陛下圣哲钦明，使浸润之谮不得行焉。
然臣孤根独立，朝无党援，久弃遐外，人道断绝，而结恨强宗，取怨豪族。
以累卵之身，处雷霆之冲；茧栗之质，当豺狼之路，其见吞噬，岂抗脣齿！
夫犯上干主，其罪可救，乖忤贵臣，则祸在不测。
故硃云折槛，婴逆鳞之怒，庆忌救之，成帝不问。
望之、周堪违忤石显，虽阖朝嗟叹，而死不旋踵。
此臣之所大怖也。
今浑之支党姻族内外，皆根据磐，并处世位。
闻遣人在洛中，专共交构，盗言孔甘，疑惑观听。
夫曾参之不杀人，亦以明矣，然三人传之，其母投杼。
今臣之信行，未若曾参之著；而谗构沸腾，非徒三夫之对，外内扇助，为二五之应。
夫猛兽当途，麒麟恐惧，况臣脆弱，敢不悚忄栗。
伪吴君臣，今皆生在，便可验问，以明虚实。
前伪中郎将孔摅说，去二月武昌失守，水军行至。
皓案行石头还，左右人皆跳刀大呼云： 要当为陛下一死战决之。
皓意大喜，谓必能然，便尽出金宝，以赐与之。
小人无状，得便持走，皓惧，乃图降首。
降使适去，左右劫夺财物，略取妻妾，放火烧宫。
translation: 
I also heard that Wang Hun wrote a document to file a false accusation against me.
I am dull and honest by nature, and I do it with a clear conscience, just hoping to live up to the gods.
Moling's affairs are all as I mentioned in the previous table. However, there are many people who are jealous of integrity. They deliberately fabricate and fabricate accusations, blatantly act in the holy world, and confuse right and wrong.
The sycophants are evil and harm the country. This has been the case since ancient times.
Therefore, Chu was conquered without a hammer, Chu was destroyed by a tremor in the air, and as for the eternal title and the selection of the dynasty, these were recorded in the classics and were taken as a warning by the world.
In the past, Luan Yi conquered Qi and captured seventy cities. However, he was eventually alienated by slander and ran away.
After Le Yang returned to the court in victory, the book box was filled with letters slandering him.
What's more, I am stubborn and careless, so how can I stop the mouths of those who say bad things?
However, my hope of saving my body and soul depends entirely on Your Majesty's wisdom, which makes gradual slander unworkable.
However, I was alone, with no support from my allies in the DPRK, and I was left in a remote place for a long time. I was cut off from personal relations and had enmity with a powerful sectarian family.
With my fragile body, I am under the impact of thunder; with my weak body of a newborn calf, I stand in the way of the wolf and will be devoured, how can I resist with my lips and teeth!
If you offend the king, the crime can be cured; if you offend the powerful ministers, the disaster will be unfathomable.
Therefore, Zhu Yun broke the cage, which greatly angered Emperor Cheng. Qing Ji rescued him, and Sheng Tong no longer questioned the crime.
Looking at it, Qi'an offended Huti. Although the whole court sighed, death was still inevitable.
This is what scares me.
Now Wang Hun's party members and in-laws, both inside and outside, are colluding with each other, and they are all in official positions inherited from generation to generation.
I heard that people were sent to Luozhong to collude with each other. Their slanderous words were very pleasant and confused people's hearing and hearing.
It was clear that Zeng Shen would not kill anyone. However, when the three people heard that he had killed anyone, his mother was so frightened that she dropped her weaving shuttle and ran away.
Nowadays, my credibility and character are not as outstanding as Zeng Shen's; and the slanderous talk is boiling, not just three people are talking, instigating it internally and externally, and everyone is responding.
The beast blocks the road and the unicorn is frightened, not to mention my frailty, how can I not tremble!
The kings and ministers of the fake Wu are all alive now, so they can be verified and interrogated to distinguish the true from the false.
Previously, Kong Xin, the puppet general, said that Wuchang fell in February last year and the navy was about to arrive.
When Sun Hao inspected the stone and returned to the court, the people on his left and right waved their swords and shouted: "We must fight to the death for your majesty."
Sun Hao was overjoyed and thought that it would definitely happen, so he took out all the gold and silver objects and gave them to them.
The villain was rude and ran away with it. Sun Hao was frightened and planned to surrender.
The surrendered envoys had just left, plundering property from left and right, plundering wives and concubines, and setting fire to the palace.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
皓逃身窜首，恐不脱死，臣至，遣参军主者救断其火耳。
周浚以十六日前入皓宫，臣时遣记室吏往视书籍，浚使收缚。
若有遗宝，则浚前得，不应移踪后人，欲求苟免也。
臣前在三山得浚书云： 皓散宝货以赐将士，府库略虚。
而今复言 金银箧笥，动有万计 ，疑臣军得之。
言语反覆，无复本末。
臣复与军司张牧、汝南相冯紞等共入观皓宫，乃无席可坐。
后日又与牧等共视皓舟船，浑又先臣一日上其船，船上之物，皆浑所知见。
臣之案行，皆出其后，若有宝货，浑应得之。
又臣将军素严，兵人不得妄离部阵间。
在秣陵诸军。凡二十万众。
臣军先至，为土地之主。
百姓之心，皆归仰臣，臣切敕所领，秋毫不犯。
诸有市易，皆有伍任证左，明从券契，有违犯者，凡斩十三人，皆吴人所知也。
余军纵横，诈称臣军，而臣军类皆蜀人，幸以此自别耳，岂独浚之将士皆是夷齐，而臣诸军悉聚盗跖耶！
时有八百余人，缘石头城劫取布帛。
臣牙门将军马潜即收得二十余人，并疏其督将姓名，移以付浚，使得自科结，而寂无反报，疑皆纵遣，绝其端绪也。
又闻吴人言，前张悌战时，所杀财有二千人，而浑、浚露布言以万计。
以吴刚子为主簿，而遣刚至洛，欲令刚增斩级之数。
可具问孙皓及其诸臣，则知其定审。
若信如所闻，浚等虚诈，尚欺陛下，岂惜于臣！
云臣屯聚蜀人，不时送皓，欲有反状。
又恐动吴人，言臣皆当诛杀，取其妻子，冀其作乱，得骋私忿。
谋反大逆，尚以见加，其余谤沓，故其宜耳。
浑案臣 瓶磬小器，蒙国厚恩，频繁擢叙，遂过其任 。
浑此言最信，内省惭惧。
translation: 
Sun Hao ran away desperately, fearing that he would not survive. When I got there, I sent someone who was in charge of the army to put out the fire.
Zhou Jun entered Sun Hao's palace 16 days ago. I sent the clerk to inspect the books, but Zhou Jun sent someone to arrest the clerk.
If there is treasure left behind by Qi, then Zhou Jun has obtained it first and should not leave traces to future generations in order to avoid guilt.
I previously received a letter from Zhou Jun in Sanshan, saying: Sun Hao distributed treasures to reward the soldiers, but the storehouse was plundered and empty.
And now it is said that there are tens of thousands of gold, silver and bamboo boxes, and it is suspected that my army has taken them.
The words are repeated and the whole story is no longer clear.
I went into Sun Hao's palace with military commander Zhang Mu, Runan Prime Minister Feng Shou and others to watch, but there was no place to sit.
Later, I went to see Sun Hao's boat with Zhang Mu and others. Wang Hun boarded Sun Hao's boat one day earlier than me. Everything on the boat was what Wang Hun knew and saw.
I followed him in all my patrols. If there is any treasure, Wang Hun should get it.
Besides, I have always been strict in running the army, and soldiers are not allowed to leave the unit without authorization.
The number of troops in Moling totaled 200,000.
My army arrived first and became the lord of the land.
百姓的心，都归附仰仗我，我深切告诫我所统领的部队，秋毫不犯。
Whenever there was a market transaction, several people served as witnesses and the contract was clearly abided by. A total of thirteen people who violated the contract were killed. This was known to the people of Wu.
Other troops are running around everywhere, pretending to be my subordinates, and our troops are all Shu people. Fortunately, we can distinguish ourselves. Could it be that Zhou Jun's officers and men were all Boyi and Shuqi, while all my armies were gathered together by the bandit Zhi?
At that time, there were more than 800 people looting cloth and silk along the Stone City.
My Yamen general Ma Dang immediately captured more than 20 people, wrote down the names of their governors, and handed them over to Zhou Jun so that he could deal with them according to law. However, without any news to report back, I suspected that they had all been indulged in, and the trace of the matter was cut off.
I also heard from people in Wu that during Zhang Ti’s previous battle, only two thousand people were killed, but Wang Hun and Zhou Jun spread rumors that it was enough to kill tens of thousands.
He took Yuju's son as the chief keeper, and sent Chengju to steal, hoping that Yujian would increase the number of enemies he killed.
You can ask Sun Hao and his ministers about everything, and you can know for sure in detail.
If it is true, as I heard, that Zhou Jun and others falsely reported fraud and even deceived Your Majesty, will you take pity on me?
He said that I was gathering people from Shu and did not deliver Juebi on time, so I seemed to want to rebel.
He also threatened the Wu people, saying that I would kill them all and rob their wives and children, hoping that they would cause rebellion and vent their anger.
Conspiracy and treason would be charged additionally, so other slanderous remarks are only natural.
I have to repay my little talent in the official report. I have received great favor from the country and have been promoted and appointed frequently, so I have exceeded his ability.
Wang Yun's words were the most true, and he reflected in his heart with shame and fear.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今年平吴，诚为大庆，于臣之身，更受咎累。
既无孟侧策马之好，而令济济之朝有谗邪之人，亏穆穆之风，损皇代之美。
由臣顽疏，使致于此，拜表流汗，言不识次。
濬至京都，有司奏，濬表既不列前后所被七诏月日，又赦后违诏不受浑节度，大不敬，付廷尉科罪。
诏曰： 濬前受诏径造秣陵，后乃下受浑节度。
诏书稽留，所下不至，便令与不受诏同责，未为经通。
濬不即表上被浑宣诏，此可责也。
濬有征伐之劳，不足以一眚掩之。
有司又奏，濬赦后烧贼船百三十五艘，辄敕付廷尉禁推。
诏曰 勿推 。
拜濬辅国大将军，领步兵校尉。
旧校唯五，置此营自濬始也。
有司又奏，辅国依比，未为达官，不置司马，不给官骑。
诏依征镇给五百大车，增兵五百人为辅国营，给亲骑百人、官骑十人，置司马。
封为襄阳县侯，邑万户。
封子彝杨乡亭侯，邑千五百户，赐绢万匹，又赐衣一袭、钱三十万及食物。
濬自以功大，而为浑父子及豪强所抑，屡为有司所奏，每进见，陈其攻伐之劳，及见枉之状，或不胜忿愤，径出不辞。
帝每容恕之。
益州护军范通，濬之外亲也。谓濬曰： 卿功则美矣，然恨所以居美者，未尽善也。
濬曰： 何谓也？
通曰： 卿旋旆之日，角巾私第，口不言平吴之事。
若有问者，辄曰： 圣主之德，群帅之力，老夫何力之有焉！
如斯，颜老之不伐，龚遂之雅对，将何以过之。
蔺生所以屈廉颇，王浑能无愧乎！
translation: 
Wu was pacified this year, which was a great joy, but for me, it was a disaster.
Meng Zhili did not have the good character of whipping horses to show his lack of respect for his achievements, but also allowed slanderous people in the prosperous court to speak and behave evilly, damaging the solemn atmosphere and damaging the reputation of the emperor.
Because of my stubbornness and omission, this situation was caused. I was sweating all over my face and my speech was incoherent.
When Yuxuan arrived in the capital, the relevant officials reported to Wang Jun that he did not list the months of the seven edicts he had received before and after, but also pardoned him for violating the edicts and not being subject to chariot control, which was disrespectful and handed over to Tingwei for punishment.
The edict said: Wang Jun first received the edict and went straight to Moling, and then the edict was issued for him to be under Wang Hun's control.
If the edict was withheld and was not fulfilled, it would not be reasonable to say that this is the same as not accepting the edict.
Wang Jun was punished if he did not immediately report to Wang Hun and was ordered to do so.
Wang Jun's achievements in conquests and conquests were not enough to be covered up by a single mistake.
Relevant officials reported again that Wang Jun burned 135 enemy ships after issuing an imperial edict to pardon the state of Wu, so he should order Tingwei to be imprisoned for investigation.
The edict said not to speculate.
He worshiped Wang Jun as the general of the auxiliary country and the captain of the infantry.
In the past, the school only had five establishments. The establishment of this battalion started with Wang Jun.
Relevant officials also reported that according to the regulations, the position of assistant to the country was not considered a high official, and there was no command horse or official riding.
The edict ordered that 500 carts be given according to the position of the town, 500 additional troops should be added to assist the state, 100 personal cavalry, 10 official cavalry, and Sima.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangyang County and was granted the title of 10,000 households.
He granted his son Wang Yi the title of Tinghou of Yangxiang, granted him a settlement of 1,500 households, and granted him 10,000 bolts of silk, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan and food.
Wang Jun believed that he had made great achievements, but was suppressed by Wang Hun, his son and other powerful men, and was impeached by the officials many times. Whenever he came to see him, he would state his achievements in attacking and conquering, as well as the situation of being wronged. Sometimes he would be so angry that he would leave without saying goodbye.
The emperor often forgave him.
Fan Tong, the guardian of Yizhou, was Wang Jun's in-law, and said to Wang Jun: Your contribution can be said to be great, but it is a pity that you failed to achieve perfection in the aspects that can make you enjoy a good reputation.
Wang Jun asked: What does this mean?
Fan Tong said: On the day of your victory, you should return home wearing a kerchief and not mention the pacification of Wu.
If there is a person in the world, say: It depends on the virtue of the sage king and the strength of the generals. How can I have any merit in this matter?
, Like this, Yan Lao's lack of respect for his achievements and Gong Sui's humble answers, how can they surpass you.
Lin Xiangru wronged himself in front of Lian Po. How could Wang Hun not be ashamed?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
濬曰： 吾始惧邓艾之事，畏祸及，不得无言，亦不能遣诸胸中，是吾偏也。
时人咸以濬功重报轻，博士秦秀、太子洗马孟康、前温令李密等并表讼濬之屈。
帝乃迁濬镇军大将军，加散骑常侍，领后军将军。
王浑诣濬，濬严设备卫，然后见之，其相猜防如此。
濬平吴之后，以勋高位重，不复素业自居，乃玉食锦服，纵奢侈以自逸。
其有辟引，多是蜀人，示不遗故旧也。
后又转濬抚军大将军、开府仪同三司，加特进，散骑常侍、后军将军如故。
太康六年卒，时年八十，谥曰武。
葬柏谷山，大营茔域，葬垣周四十五里，面别开一门，松柏茂盛。
子矩嗣。
矩弟暢，散骑郎。
暢子粹，太康十年，武帝诏粹尚颍川公主，仕至魏郡太守。
濬有二孙，过江不见齿录。
安西将军恆温镇江陵，表言之曰： 臣闻崇德赏功，为政之所先；兴灭继绝，百王之所务。
故德参时雍，则奕世承祀；功烈一代，则永锡祚胤。
案故抚军王濬历职内外，任兼文武，料敌制胜，明勇独断，义存社稷之利，不顾专辄之罪。
荷戈长鹜，席卷万里，僭号之吴，面缚象魏，今皇泽被于九州，玄风洽于区外，襄阳之封，废而莫续；恩宠之号，坠于近嗣。
遐迩酸怀，臣窃悼之。
濬今有二孙，年出六十，室如悬磬，糊口江滨，四节蒸尝，菜羹不给。
昔汉高定业，求乐毅之嗣；世祖旌贤，建葛亮之胤。
夫效忠异代，立功异国，尚通天下之善，使不泯弃，况濬建元勋于当年，著喜庆于身后，灵基托根于南垂，皇祚中兴于江左，旧物克彰，神器重耀，岂不由伊人之功力也哉！
诚宜加恩，少垂矜悯，追录旧勋，纂锡茅土。
则圣朝之恩，宣暢于上，忠臣之志，不坠于地矣。
translation: 
Wang Jun said: At first, I was afraid of things like Deng Ai's. I was afraid of disasters. I had to say it and couldn't keep it in my heart. This was because I was narrow-minded.
People at that time believed that Wang Jun's merits were great but his rewards were light. Dr. Qin Xiu, Prince Xima Meng Kang, former Wenling Li Mi and others came together to express Wang Jun's grievances.
The emperor then promoted Wang Jun to the rank of general of the town army, and appointed him as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry and a general of the rear army.
Wang Hun visited Wang Jun, and Wang Jun put up a tight guard before meeting him. This was the mutual suspicion and precaution between them.
After Wang Jun pacified the state of Wu, because of his high status, he no longer regarded himself as simple, but instead lived in jade and rich clothes. Indulge in luxury and enjoy comfort.
If anyone is recruited and recommended, most of them are from Shu, which means that they will not forget the past.
Later, he was transferred to Wang Jun as the general of the Fu army and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He was granted special promotion and his positions of regular attendant of the casual cavalry and general of the rear army remained.
He died in the sixth year of Taikang at the age of eighty, and his name was Wu.
He was buried in Baigu Mountain, and a large-scale cemetery was built. The perimeter of the cemetery is forty-five miles, with a gate on each side and lush pines and cypresses.
He was succeeded by his son Wang Ju.
Wang Ju's younger brother Wang Chang was appointed Sanqi Lang.
In the tenth year of Taikang, Emperor Wu issued an edict for Wang Cui, the son of Wang Chang, to marry Princess Yingchuan and become the prefect of Wei County.
Wang Jun had two grandsons who were not hired after moving south of the Yangtze River.
Huan Wen, the general of Anxi, who was guarding Jiangling, discussed the matter and said: I heard that advocating virtue and rewarding meritorious officials is the first thing in politics; revitalizing what has been lost and continuing what has been cut off is what emperors of all generations are engaged in.
Therefore, if virtue participates in the stability of the world, then sacrifices will continue from generation to generation; if achievements are prominent in one generation, then blessings will be forever given to future generations.
The late General Wang Jun of the Fu Army held various official positions within and outside the imperial court. He was capable of literary and military skills, could predict the enemy's victory, was wise, courageous and good at making decisions. He had national interests in mind and did not care about the accusation of specialization.
Wu Jun drove straight in with a gun and swept thousands of miles. Wu Jun, who usurped his name, tied himself behind his back and surrendered outside the palace gate. Nowadays, the emperor's favor spreads all over Jiuzhou, and the style of talking about mysteries spreads beyond the region. The title of the Marquis of Xiangyang was abandoned without anyone to inherit it; the title of Grace was lost to descendants in modern times.
I feel sad near and far, and I am secretly sad.
Wang Jun now has two grandsons who are over sixty years old. The family has nothing, and they live by the river. During the four seasons, they have no vegetable soup to offer.
In the past, Mo Gaozu established his empire and sought Le Yi's descendants; Jin Shizu commended the virtuous and appointed officials to Zhuge Liang's descendants.
Having served loyally to other dynasties and performed meritorious services in other countries, they can still perform good deeds in the world so that their achievements will not be abandoned. What's more, Wang Jun established the first achievements in that year and left auspiciousness behind him. His ancestors entrusted their descendants to southern Xinjiang. The imperial industry of the royal family was revived and rebuilt in Jiangdong. Old things can be prominent and artifacts can shine again. Isn't it because of the credit of that person!
In fact, we should show grace and a little mercy, recall past meritorious deeds, and inherit the title.
Then the grace of the holy dynasty will flow freely from heaven, and the ambitions of loyal ministers will not fall to the ground.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
卒不见省。
唐彬，字儒宗，鲁国邹人也。父台，太山太守。
彬有经国大度，而不拘行检。
少便弓马，好游猎，身长八尺，走及奔鹿，强力兼人。
晚乃敦悦经史，尤明《易经》，随师受业，还家教授，恆数百人。
初为郡门下掾，转主簿。
刺史王沈集诸参佐，盛论距吴之策，以问九郡吏。
彬与谯郡主张恽俱陈吴有可兼之势，沈善其对。
又使彬难言吴未可伐者，而辞理皆屈。
还迁功曹，举孝廉，州辟主簿，累迁别驾。
彬忠肃公亮，尽规匡救，不显谏以自彰，又奉使诣相府计事，于时僚佐皆当世英彦，见彬莫不钦悦，称之于文帝，荐为掾属。
帝以问其参军孔颢，颢忌其能，良久不答。
陈骞在坐，敛板而称曰： 彬之为人，胜骞甚远。
帝笑曰： 但能如卿，固未易得，何论于胜。
因辟彬为铠曹属。
帝问曰： 卿何以致辟？
对曰： 修业陋巷，观古人之遗迹，言满天下无口过，行满天下无怨恶。
帝顾四坐曰： 名不虚行。
他日，谓孔颢曰： 近见唐彬，卿受蔽贤之责矣。
初，邓艾之诛也，文帝以艾久在陇右，素得士心，一旦夷灭，恐边情搔动，使彬密察之。
彬还，白帝曰： 邓艾忌克诡狭，矜能负才，顺从者谓为见事，直言者谓之触迕。
虽长史司马，参佐牙门，答对失指，辄见骂辱。
处身无礼，大失人心。
又好施行事役，数劳众力。
陇右甚患苦之，喜闻其祸，不肯为用。
今诸军已至，足以镇压内外，愿无以为虑。
俄除尚书水部郎。
translation: 
The above table is never considered.
Tang Bin, named Confucian, was from Zou, Leili. His father, Tangtai, was the prefect of Taishan.
Tang Bin had the magnanimity to govern the country, regardless of his moral integrity.
He was familiar with horseback riding and archery when he was young, and loved hunting. He was eight feet tall, could catch up with a running deer, and was as strong as several men.
Later, I paid more attention to my love of classics and history books, especially the "Book of Changes". I studied with teachers and taught them at home, often to hundreds of people.
At first, he was appointed as a subordinate of the county gate, and then as the chief registrar.
The governor Wang Shen summoned many of his subordinates to discuss the countermeasures against Wu and asked the officials of the nine counties.
Tang Bin and Zhang Pang, the chief registrar of Qiao County, both stated the situation in which Wu could be annexed, and Wang Chen appreciated their answers.
He also asked Tang Bin to refute those who thought that Wu could not be conquered, but those people were indifferent.
After returning home, he was promoted to meritorious service, Xiaolian was recommended, Zhou Bao called him to be the chief secretary, and he was gradually promoted to Biejia.
Tang Bin is loyal, respectful, just and open-minded, and he wholeheartedly advises and corrects others, and does not show advice just to express himself. He was also ordered to go to the Prime Minister's Mansion to discuss matters. At that time, the staff were all famous and talented people in the world. They all admired Tang Bin and were happy. They went to Emperor Wen to praise him and recommend him to be an official.
Emperor Wen asked Kong Hao, a soldier in the army, about the matter. Kong Hao was jealous of Tang Bin's talent and did not reply for a long time.
Chen Qian was present, and he restrained his wat ban and said: "Tang Bin's character is much better than mine."
Emperor Wen smiled and said: "As long as I can be like you, it is already rare. How can I surpass you?"
So Tang Bin was recruited to serve as Zhong Cao's vassal.
The emperor asked: Why were you requisitioned?
The answer is: He cultivates his studies in the simple streets and inspects the relics of the ancients. His words are spread all over the world without any mistakes, and his actions are spread all over the world without any resentment.
The emperor looked around and said: Well-deserved.
Afterwards, Emperor Wen said to Kong Hao: I saw Tang Bin recently. You have the fault of covering up the wise man.
At the beginning, when Deng Ai was executed, Emperor Wen sent Tang Bin to secretly investigate because Deng Ai had been in Longxi for a long time and was usually very popular. He was afraid that the situation at the border would be unstable once he was destroyed.
Tang Bin came back and told Emperor Wen: Deng Ai was jealous, harsh, cunning and narrow-minded by nature, boastful and arrogant. Those who were obedient were considered to be able to do things, and those who were outspoken were considered offensive.
Even if Sima, the chief historian, consulted Yamen, he would insult him if his answers were not to his liking.
If you don't pay attention to etiquette, you will be very unpopular.
He also likes to perform miscellaneous tasks and work many times.
Long Xi felt very worried and hard. He was very happy to hear that he had met with trouble and refused to work hard for him anymore.
Now that all the armies have arrived, they are enough to suppress both internal and external forces. I hope you don’t have to worry about this matter.
Soon he was appointed Minister of Water Affairs.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
泰始初，赐爵关内侯。
出补鄴令，彬道德齐礼，期月化成。
迁弋阳太守，明设禁防，百姓安之。
以母丧去官。
益州东接吴寇，监军位缺，朝议用武陵太守杨宗及彬。
武帝以问散骑常侍文立，立曰： 宗、彬俱不可失。
然彬多财欲，而宗好酒，惟陛下裁之。
帝曰： 财欲可足，酒者难改。
遂用彬。
寻又诏彬监巴东诸军事，加广武将军。
上征吴之策，甚合帝意。
后与王濬共伐吴，彬屯据冲要，为众军前驱。
每设疑兵，应机制胜，陷西陵、乐乡，多所擒获。
自巴陵、沔口以东，诸贼所聚，莫不震惧，倒戈肉袒。
彬知贼寇已殄，孙皓将降，未至建鄴二百里，称疾迟留，以示不竞。
果有先到者争物，后到者争功，于时有识莫不高彬此举。
吴平，诏曰： 广武将军唐彬受任方隅，东御吴寇，南监蛮越，抚宁疆埸，有绥御之绩。
又每慷慨，志在立功。
顷者征讨，扶疾奉命，首启戎行，献俘授馘，勋效显著。
其以彬为右将军、都督巴东诸军事。
征拜翊军校尉，改封上庸县侯，食邑六千户，赐绢六千匹。
朝有疑议，每参预焉。
北虏侵掠北平，以彬为使持节、监幽州诸军事、领护乌丸校尉、右将军。
彬既至镇，训卒利兵，广农重稼，震威耀武，宣喻国命，示以恩信。
于是鲜卑二部大莫廆、擿何等并遣侍子入贡。
兼修学校，诲诱无倦，仁惠广被。
遂开拓旧境，却地千里。
复秦长城塞，自温城洎于碣石，绵亘山谷且三千里，分军屯守，烽堠相望。
由是边境获安，无犬吠之警，自汉魏征镇莫之比焉。
鲜卑诸种畏惧，遂杀大莫廆。
彬欲讨之，恐列上俟报，虏必逃散，乃发幽冀车牛。
参军许祗密奏之。诏遣御史槛车征彬付廷尉，以事直见释。
百姓追慕彬功德，生为立碑作颂。
彬初受学于东海阎德，门徒甚多，独目彬有廊庙才。
及彬官成，而德已卒，乃为之立碑。
元康初，拜使持节、前将军、领西戎校尉、雍州刺史。
translation: 
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Ye Ling was left alone, Tang Bin's morals were in line with etiquette, and his education was completed in one year.
He was moved to the post of governor of Yiyang, and public bans were established to prevent it, and the people became stable.
He resigned from the palace because of his mother's funeral.
Yizhou was adjacent to the enemy invaders in Chengli, and there was a shortage of personnel for the position of military supervisor. The court discussed appointing Wuling prefects Yang Zong and Tang Bin.
Emperor Wu asked Wen Li, the regular attendant of Sanqi, about this incident. Wen Li said: "Neither Yang Zong nor Tang Bin should be lost."
However, Tang Bin has a strong desire for wealth and Yang Zong is a drunkard. Please ask your Majesty to rule.
Emperor Wu said: The desire for money can be satisfied, but it is difficult for people who are greedy to change.
So Tang Bin was appointed.
Soon after, Tang Bin was ordered to supervise the military affairs in Badong and was awarded the title of General Guangwu.
Shangshu discussed the strategy of conquering Wu, which was very much in line with the emperor's wishes.
Later, he and Wang Yi conquered the stars together, and Lu Qian occupied the main transportation road and served as the vanguard of the army.
Always set up suspicious soldiers and seize the opportunity to win. They captured Xiling and Lexiang and captured many enemies.
From the east of Danyi and Maggot, wherever the enemy troops gathered, everyone was shocked and frightened, and they all turned over and surrendered.
Tang Bin knew that the enemy was in a desperate situation and Sun Hao was about to surrender. He was 200 miles away from Jianye and stayed there claiming to be ill to show that he would not take credit.
Sure enough, those who arrived first competed for things, and those who arrived later competed for credit. All knowledgeable people at that time praised Lu Qu's move.
Yuli was pacified, Shao Shu said; Guangwu general Lu Si served on the border, resisted the Cheng bandits to the east, faced the barbarian Yue to the south, pacified and stabilized the battlefield, and had the merit of stabilizing the country and resisting the enemy.
He often makes generous speeches and aims to achieve meritorious service.
During the recent expedition, he accepted orders even though he was ill, and made prisoners and killed enemies for the vanguard of the army, which was a remarkable achievement.
Lu Yan was appointed as the right general and the military commander of Dansai.
He was conscripted into the Yi Military Academy and granted the title of Marquis of Shangyong County. He was granted a settlement of 6,000 households and was given 6,000 bolts of silk.
If the court had any problems, he would often get involved.
The enemy invaders from the north invaded and plundered Peiping, so Tang Bin was appointed as envoy Chijie, supervising Youye's military affairs, and also protecting Karasuma's captain and right general.
After Tang Ao arrived at the border town, he trained soldiers to repair weapons, expanded farmland and focused on agriculture, inspired military power to show force, publicized national laws, and showed kindness and credit.
So the two tribes of Xianbei, Damo Mo and Lao He, sent their sons to serve the emperor as hostages.
Tang Bin studied in school concurrently, taught tirelessly and spread kindness and kindness widely.
So we opened up the old borders and advanced thousands of miles.
The Qin Great Wall fortress was restored, stretching nearly three thousand miles in the valley from Wencheng to Jieshi. It was divided into garrison troops and guarded by beacon towers.
From then on, the border was peaceful, and there were no dogs barking to call the police. No general since Luo Wei could compare with him.
The Xianbei tribes were afraid, so they killed Damo Mo.
Tang Bin wanted to attack them, but he was afraid that if he waited for the report according to the procedure, the enemies would definitely flee, so he mobilized Youji chariots and cattle.
Xu Zhi, who joined the army, reported secretly and issued an imperial edict to send the imperial censor to escort Tang Bin to the imperial court. However, he was released due to unforeseen circumstances.
The people admired Tang Bin's merits and built monuments to praise him while Tang Bin was still alive.
Tang Bin first studied in Yande, Donghai. Yande had many students, but he only thought that Tang Bin had the ability to serve as an official in the court.
When Tang Bin became an official and Yan De was dead, a monument was erected for Yan De.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, former general, Xirong school captain, and Yongzhou governor.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
下教曰： 此州名都，士人林薮。
处士皇甫申叔、严舒龙、姜茂时、梁子远等，并志节清妙，履行高洁。
践境望风，虚心饥渴，思加延致，待以不臣之典。
幅巾相见，论道而已，岂以吏职，屈染高规。
郡国备礼发遣，以副于邑之望。
于是四人皆到，彬敬而待之。
元康四年卒官，时年六十，谥曰襄，赐绢二百匹，钱二十万。
长子嗣，官至广陵太守。
少子岐，征虏司马。
史臣曰：孙氏负江山之阻隔，恃牛斗之妖氛，奄有水乡，抗衡上国。
二王属当戎旅，受律遄征，浑既献捷横江，濬亦克清建鄴。
于时讨吴之役，将帅虽多，定吴之功，此焉为最。
向使弘范父之不伐，慕阳夏之推功，上禀庙堂，下凭将士。
岂非茂勋茂德，善始善终者欤！
此而不存，彼焉是务。
或矜功负气，或恃势骄陵，竞构南箕，成兹贝锦。
遂乃喧黩宸扆，斁乱彝伦，既为戒于功臣，亦致讥于清论，岂不惜哉！
王济遂骄父之褊心，乖争子之明义，俊材虽多，亦奚以为也。
唐彬畏避交争，属疾迟留，退让之风，贤于浑濬远矣。
传云 不拘行检 ，安得长者之行哉！
赞曰：二王总戎，淮海攸同。
浑既害善，濬亦矜功。
武子豪桀，夙参朝列。
逞欲牛心，纡情马埒。
儒宗知退，避名全节。
translation: 
Issued a decree saying: This state is a famous big city where scholars gather.
Those who lived in seclusion and did not serve as officials, such as Huangfu Shenshu, Ti Zhuikang, Jiang Maoshi, Liang Ziyuan and others, all had noble moral integrity and noble conduct.
As soon as I set foot on this land, I heard about their reputation. I humbly wanted to invite them to come and receive them without following the official etiquette.
They meet each other dressed as civilians and just talk about scriptures. How can they be wronged and pollute their noble principles because of their official positions.
The prefectures and states prepare and send gifts to satisfy the wishes of the cities and towns.
So the four people arrived, and Tang Bin treated them respectfully.
Yuankang died in office in the fourth year of his reign at the age of sixty. He was given the title of Xiang and was given two hundred pieces of silk and two hundred thousand money.
The eldest son succeeded him and became the prefect of Guangling.
The youngest son Tang Qi was appointed Sima of Zhenglu.
Shi Chen said: The Sun family relied on the barrier of mountains and rivers and the demonic aura of Niudou Xingxu to occupy the water towns and compete with the Jin Kingdom.
Wang Hun and Wang Jun were in the army and were ordered to go out quickly. After Wang Hun's victory at Hengjiang, Wang Yi also conquered Jiansu.
The crusade at that time: In the battle of the main country, although there were many generals, the greatest contribution was made in pacifying Wu.
If you admire Father Lian's meritorious service, you can admire Yajiang's meritorious service. It is said that those above take orders from the imperial court, while those below rely on the soldiers.
Isn’t he a man of great merit and virtue who starts well and ends well?
There is no such spirit, but it is pursued on the other side.
Either he works hard to control his energy, or he uses his power to frame others and fabricate accusations.
So it polluted the air in the palace, corrupted and messed up the laws and regulations, not only made the heroes a warning, but also attracted the ridicule of public opinion. Isn't it a pity!
Wang Jishun complied with the narrow-mindedness of his arrogant father and violated the moral principles of the son's admonishment in front of his father. Although superman has many talents, what's the use?
Lu Que was afraid of and avoided competing with each other. He stayed away due to illness and gave in. His demeanor was much more virtuous than Wang Yun Wang's.
The biography says that he was not limited in his conduct. Where did he get the conduct of an elder?
Zan said: The two kings commanded the army, and they were unified when they entered the sea.
Wang Lun hurts good people, but Wang Zha boasts about his achievements.
Wang Ji is a hero, and he is among the courtiers.
The heart of an ox is dug out to show luxury, and the wall of riding and shooting is built to express one's state of mind.
Luqian knows how to give in, avoid fame and preserve his moral integrity.


