Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 4, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王浑，字玄冲，太原晋阳人也。
父昶，魏司空。
浑沈雅有器量。
袭父爵京陵侯，辟大将军曹爽掾。
爽诛，随例免。
起为怀令，参文帝安东军事，累迁散骑黄门侍郎、散骑常侍。
咸熙中为越骑校尉。
武帝受禅，加扬烈将军，迁徐州刺史。
时年荒岁饥，浑开仓振赡，百姓赖之。
泰始初，增封邑千八百户。
久之，迁东中郎将，监淮北诸军事，镇许昌。
数陈损益，多见纳用。
转征虏将军、监豫州诸军事、假节，领豫州刺史。
浑与吴接境，宣布威信，前后降附甚多。
吴将薛莹、鲁淑众号十万，淑向弋阳，莹向新息。
时州兵并放休息，众裁一旅，浮淮潜济，出其不意，莹等不虞晋师之至。
浑击破之，以功封次子尚为关内侯。
迁安东将军、都督扬州诸军事，镇寿春。
吴人大佃皖城，图为边害。
浑遣扬州刺史应绰督淮南诸军攻破之，并破诸别屯，焚其积谷百八十余万斛、稻苗四千余顷、船六百余艘。
浑遂陈兵东疆，视其地形险易，历观敌城，察攻取之势。
及大举伐吴，浑率师出横江，遣参军陈慎、都尉张乔攻寻阳濑乡，又击吴牙门将孔忠，皆破之，获吴将周兴等五人。
又遣殄吴护军李纯据高望城，讨吴将俞恭，破之，多所斩获。
吴历武将军陈代、平虏将军硃明惧而来降。
吴丞相张悌、大将军孙震等率众数万指城阳，浑遣司马孙畴、扬州刺史周浚击破之，临阵斩二将，及首虏七千八百级，吴人大震。
孙皓司徒何植、建威将军孙晏送印节诣浑降。
既而王濬破石头，降孙皓，威名益振。
明日，浑始济江，登建鄴宫，酾酒高会。
自以先据江上，破皓中军，案甲不进，致在王濬之后。
意甚愧恨，有不平之色，频奏濬罪状，时人讥之。
帝下诏曰： 使持节、都督扬州诸军事、安东将军、京陵侯王浑，督率所统，遂逼秣陵，令贼孙皓救死自卫，不得分兵上赴，以成西军之功，又摧大敌，获张悌，使皓途穷势尽，面缚乞降。
遂平定秣陵，功勋茂著。
其增封八千户，进爵为公，封子澄为亭侯、弟湛为关内侯，赐绢八千匹。
转征东大将军，复镇寿阳。
浑不尚刑名，处断明允。
时吴人新附，颇怀畏惧。
浑抚循羁旅，虚怀绥纳，座无空席，门不停宾。
于是江东之士莫不悦附。
征拜尚书左仆射，加散骑常侍。
会朝臣立议齐王攸当之籓，浑上书谏曰： 伏承圣诏，宪章古典，进齐王攸为上公，崇其礼仪，遣攸之国。
昔周氏建国，大封诸姬，以籓帝室，永世作宪。
至于公旦，武王之弟，左右王事，辅济大业，不使归籓。
translation: 
Wang Hun, courtesy name Xuanchong, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His father, Wang Chang, was Wei Sikong.
Wang Hun is deep, elegant and thoughtful.
Inheriting his father's title of Marquis of Jingling, he was recruited as a subordinate officer of General Cao Shuang.
Cao Shuang was executed and dismissed from office as usual.
He was promoted to Huailing, and was promoted to serve as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi and the regular servant of Sanqi.
During the Xianxi period, he was appointed as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, granted Wang Hun the title of General Yanglie, and moved him to the post of governor of Xuzhou.
When there was famine and famine at that time, Wang Hun opened a warehouse to provide relief, and the people relied on him.
In the early years of Taishi, 1,800 households were added to the fiefdom.
After a period of time, he was transferred to General Dongzhonglang to supervise the military affairs in Huaibei and guard Zhuchang.
He stated the strategy of governing the country many times and was mostly adopted.
He was transferred to the post of general of conquering captives, supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and serving as the governor of Yuzhou.
Xinggeng's jurisdiction was connected to the county border. He declared his prestige, and many people surrendered and attached themselves to him.
The armies of Wu generals Xue Ying and Lu Shu were said to be one hundred thousand. Lu Shu's army went to Yiyang, and Xue Ying's army went to the new emperor.
At that time, all the soldiers in the state were on holiday, and there was only one traveler in the army. Wang Hun used a boat to cross the border quietly, but by surprise, Ying and others did not expect the arrival of Zhijun.
Wang Hun defeated them and made Wang Hun's second son Wang Shang the Marquis of Guannei due to his meritorious service.
He was moved to the post of General Andong, Commander-in-Chief of the Yangzhou military forces, and guarded Shouchun.
The Wu people settled in Wancheng on a large scale and planned to cause harm on the border.
Wang Hun sent the governor of Yangzhou, Ying Chuo, to lead all the armies in the south to defeat them. He also defeated some other military camps and burned more than 1.8 million hu of grain, more than 4,000 hectares of rice seedlings, and more than 600 ships that the Wu people had accumulated.
Wang Yun then deployed his troops on the eastern border to understand the dangers of the terrain, watched the enemy cities one by one, and inspected the situation of the attack.
After a large-scale crusade against Wu, Wang Hun led his troops from Hengjiang and sent soldiers Chen Shen and captain Zhang Qiao to attack Xunyangse Township. He also attacked Wuya gate general Kong Zhong and defeated them all, capturing Wu general Zhou Xing and five others.
He also sent Li Chun, the protector of Wu, to occupy Gaowang City and attack Wu general Yu Gong. He defeated him, killed many of them and captured many.
Wu Liwu's general Chen Dai and Pinglu general Zhu Ming came to surrender out of fear.
Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti, General Sun Zhen and others led tens of thousands of troops towards Chengyang. Wang Hun sent Sima Sunchou and Yangzhou Governor Zhou Jun to defeat them. They killed two generals in front of the battle and beheaded 7,800 people. The Wu people were very frightened.
Sun Hao's Situ He Zhi and Jianwei General Sun Yan sent Guanyin Fujie to Wang Hun to surrender.
Later, Wang Jun broke through the stone and made Sun Hao surrender, gaining even greater prestige and fame.
The next day, Wang Hunchai crossed the river and boarded Jianye Palace to hold a banquet.
Thinking that he would occupy the river first and defeat Sun Hao's central army, he stood still and fell behind Wang Jun.
He felt very ashamed and jealous, and seemed unconvinced. He reported Wang Jun's crimes many times, and the people at the time ridiculed him.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou's military forces, General Andong, and the Marquis of Jingling Wang Hun led his army to advance to Moling, which made the enemy Sun Hao save his own life and defend himself, and was unable to divide his troops and rush upstream, thus achieving the success of the Western Army. He also destroyed the enemy and captured Zhang Ti, leaving Sun Hao with no choice but to tie himself up and beg to surrender.
So he pacified Moling and made outstanding achievements.
Eight more households were added to the fiefdom, he was promoted to the title of Duke, his son Wang Cheng was made Tinghou, his younger brother Wang Zhan was Guanneihou, and he was given eight thousand pieces of silk.
He was transferred to General Zhengshu and guarded Shouyang.
Wang Hun does not believe in criminal status and is fair and decisive in dealing with matters.
At that time, the Wu people had just surrendered and were very fearful.
Wang Hun comforted the strangers and sincerely comforted and accepted them. There were no empty seats in the seats and no guests lingering in front of the door.
Therefore, there are no people in Jiang Shu who are not happy to rely on him.
He was conscripted and appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
It happened that the courtiers were discussing that King Sima You of Qi should go to the vassal state. Wang Hun wrote a letter to advise: Accept the edict respectfully, follow the ancient laws, promote King Sima You of Qi to the rank of superior, uphold the etiquette towards him, and send Sima You to the vassal state.
In the past, when the Zhou family founded the country, they granted the surname Ji to shield the royal family, and they followed suit from generation to generation.
As for Gong Dan, he was the younger brother of King Yuan. He was in charge of the king's affairs and assisted in the great cause, and he was not allowed to go to the vassal state.
summary:
Wang Hun, courtesy name Xuanchong, was from Jinyang, Taiyuan, and inherited his father Wang Chang's title of Marquis of Jingling. He served under Cao Shuang but was dismissed after Shuang's execution. Later, he held various posts, including Governor of Xuzhou, where he opened granaries to relieve famine. During the Taishi era, he was transferred to guard Zhuchang and frequently submitted governance strategies that were often adopted. As General of Conquering Captives in Yuzhou, he attracted many surrenders. He defeated Wu generals Xue Ying and Lu Shu, earning his son Wang Shang the title of Marquis of Guannei. As General Andong in Yangzhou, he repelled Wu forces, burning their grain and ships. During the major campaign against Wu, Wang Hun led troops from Hengjiang, capturing Wu generals and receiving surrenders from Chen Dai and Zhu Ming. He defeated Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti, killing 7,800, leading to Sun Hao's surrender via He Zhi and Sun Yan. However, Wang Jun later took Sun Hao's surrender, causing Wang Hun shame and jealousy. He reported Wang Jun's crimes, drawing public ridicule. The emperor praised Wang Hun's role in pacifying Moling, adding fiefs and promoting him to Duke. He was later transferred to General Zhengshu, where he comforted surrendered Wu people. As Shangshu Zuopushe, he advised against sending Prince Sima You to a vassal state, citing historical precedents and urging retention for state security, but the emperor did not accept. In the Taixi era, he became Situ. Under Emperor Hui, he was given military command but insisted on wearing black robes to avoid impropriety, earning praise. When Prince Sima Zhang of Chu sought to kill Sima Liang, Wang Hun feigned illness and resisted with soldiers, and Sima Zhang was later killed. The emperor consulted Wang Hun on customs inquiries; Wang Hun proposed detailed questioning of local planners, which was approved. He died at seventy-five, posthumously named Yuan.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
长子尚早亡，次子济嗣。
济字武子。
少有逸才，风姿英爽，气盖一时，好弓马，勇力绝人，善《易》及《庄》、《老》，文词俊茂，伎艺过人，有名当世，与姊夫和峤及裴楷齐名。
尚常山公主。
年二十，起家拜中书郎，以母忧去官。
起为骁骑将军，累迁侍中，与侍中孔恂、王恂、杨济同列，为一时秀彦。
武帝尝会公卿籓牧于式乾殿，顾济、恂而谓诸公曰： 朕左右可谓恂恂济济矣！
每侍见，未尝不谘论人物及万机得失。
济善于清言，修饰辞令，讽议将顺，朝臣莫能尚焉。帝益亲贵之。
仕进虽速，论者不以主婿之故，咸谓才能致之。
然外虽弘雅，而内多忌刻，好以言伤物，侪类以此少之。
以其父之故，每排王濬，时议讥焉。
齐王攸当之籓，济既陈请，又累使公主与甄德妻长广公主俱入，稽颡泣请帝留攸。
帝怒谓侍中王戎曰： 兄弟至亲，今出齐王，自是朕家事，而甄德、王济连遣妇来生哭人！
以忤旨，左迁国子祭酒，常侍如故。
数年，入为侍中。
时浑为仆射，主者处事或不当，济性峻厉，明法绳之。
素与从兄佑不平，佑党颇谓济不能顾其父，由是长同异之言。
出为河南尹，未拜，坐鞭王官吏免官。而王佑始见委任。
而济遂被斥外，于是乃移第北芒山下。
性豪侈，丽服玉食。
时洛京地甚贵，济买地为马埒，编钱满之，时人谓为 金沟 。
王恺以帝舅奢豪，有牛名 八百里驳 ，常莹其蹄角。
济请以钱千万与牛对射而赌之。
恺亦自恃其能，令济先射。
一发破的，因据胡床，叱左右速探牛心来，须臾而至，一割便去。
和峤性至俭，家有好李，帝求之，不过数十。
济候其上直，率少年诣园，共啖毕，伐树而去。
帝尝幸其宅，供馔甚丰，悉贮琉璃器中。
蒸肫甚美，帝问其故，答曰： 以人乳蒸之。
帝色甚不平，食未毕而去。
济善解马性，尝乘一马，著连乾鄣泥，前有水，终不肯渡。
济云： 此必是惜鄣泥。
使人解去，便渡。
故杜预谓济有马癖。
帝尝谓和峤曰： 我将骂济而后官爵之，何如？
峤曰： 济俊爽，恐不可屈。
帝因召济，切让之，既而曰： 知愧不？
济答曰： 尺布斗粟之谣，常为陛下耻之。
他人能令亲疏，臣不能使亲亲，以此愧陛下耳。
帝默然。
帝尝与济弈棋，而孙皓在侧，谓皓曰： 何以好剥人面皮？
皓曰： 见无礼于君者则剥之。
济时伸脚局下，而皓讥焉。
寻使白衣领太仆。
translation: 
The eldest son Wang Shang died early, and the second son Wang Ji succeeded him.
Wang Ji, courtesy name Wuzi.
When he was young, he had superhuman talents, was handsome and bold, and his spirit was beyond compare. He likes to bow and arrow and ride horses. His bravery is unmatched. He is good at "Yi", "Zhuang" and "Lao". His writing is beautiful and his skills are superhuman. He is famous in the world, and he is as famous as his brother-in-law He Wei and Pei Kai.
Married Princess Changshan.
At the age of twenty, he was called away from home to serve as Zhongshu Lang and resigned in mourning for his mother.
He was appointed as a general of valiant cavalry, and was gradually promoted to the rank of servant. He was in the same official rank as the servants Kong Xun, Wang Xun and Yang Ji, and became a hero of his time.
Emperor Wu once met with ministers and local governors in the Shiqian Hall. Looking at Erji and Erxun, he said to the ministers: My right and left servants can be said to be docile and respectful.
Every time the servants come to see him, they always discuss the gains and losses of people and various things.
Wang Nai was good at talking, eloquent, and sarcastic. No courtier could surpass him, and the emperor valued him more closely.
Although he was promoted quickly, those who commented did not think it was because of Weng's son-in-law. They all said that he was achieved through talent.
However, although he looks magnanimous and elegant on the outside, he is very jealous and harsh on the inside and likes to hurt others with words, so people around him despise him.
Because of his father, Wang Jun was often excluded, and the discussions at that time ridiculed him.
King Sima You of Qi was about to go to the vassal state. After Wang Ji stated his request, he repeatedly asked the princess to enter the palace with Princess Changguang, Zhen De's wife, and kowtowed and cried, begging the emperor to keep Sima You.
The emperor angrily said to his attendant Wang Rong: "Brothers have the closest relationship. Now sending the King of Qi is naturally a matter for my family." And Zhen De and Wang Ji sent women one after another to cry to death!
Due to his disobedience to the imperial edict, he was demoted to the post of Prince of the State to offer wine, but his position as a regular attendant remained unchanged.
A few years later, he entered the palace and served as a servant.
At that time, Wang Hun was a servant, and his boss sometimes handled things improperly. Wang Ji was strict by nature and punished him according to law.
Wang Jiping had always been at odds with his cousin Wang You. Wang You's party members believed that Wang Liao did not care about his father too much, so they encouraged different opinions.
He took up the post of Henan Yin, but before he took office, he was found guilty of whipping an auxiliary official in the palace and was dismissed from office. Wang Youzheng was appointed.
Shan Shan was dismissed from the court, so Wang Ji moved his family to the foot of Beimang Mountain.
Wang Ji was extravagant by nature and was very particular about food and clothing.
At that time, the land price in Luojing was very high. Wang Ji bought the land and used it as a riding and shooting track. He put the money together to pave the track. People at the time called it "Jingou".
Because Wang Kai was the emperor's uncle, he was extravagant and luxurious. He had a cow named "Eight Hundred Miles Pier", and the horns of the cow's hooves were often decorated.
Wang Ji proposed to use 10 million yuan as a bet and a cow to compete in archery.
Wang Kai thought he was capable and asked Wang Ji to shoot first.
As soon as Wang Ji hit the target, he sat on the throne and yelled at everyone to quickly get the heart of the cow. In a blink of an eye, he arrived, cut it off with a knife, and left.
He Wei was very frugal by nature and had a good plum tree at home. The emperor asked for it but only gave him dozens of it.
While Wang Ji was on duty with Wei, he led the young man to the orchard, ate together, and cut down the plum tree before leaving.
The emperor once visited Wang Ji's residence and served him a sumptuous meal, all of which was served in glassware.
Steamed gizzards tasted very good. When the emperor asked why, he replied: Steamed with human milk.
The emperor looked very unhappy and left before finishing his meal.
Wang Ji knew the temperament of horses very well. He once rode a horse that was covered with dry mud. There was water in front of it, but the horse refused to cross.
Wang Zha said: This must be because he is reluctant to give up the clay.
He was asked to let go, and the horse crossed the water.
Therefore, Du Yu said that Wang Ji had a hobby of loving horses.
The emperor once said to Qi Ku: I want to scold Wang Liao and then give him an official title. How about that?
He Wei said: Wang Ji is generous and generous, I'm afraid I can't wrong him.
The emperor then summoned Wang Ji, scolded him deeply, and then said: Do you know how ashamed you are?
Wang Ji replied: Brothers are incompatible. I am always ashamed of your majesty.
Others can alienate their relatives, but I cannot let my relatives get close. I am ashamed of Your Majesty for this.
The emperor remained silent.
The emperor once played chess with Wang Ji, and Sun Hao was beside him. The emperor said to Zhubi: Why do you like to skin people?
Sun Hao said: If you see someone who is rude to the king, skin him.
Wang Ji put his feet under the chessboard, so Sun Hao ridiculed Wang Ji.
Soon he was made a civilian and served as a servant.
summary:
Wang Ji, courtesy name Wuzi, was Wang Hun's son. He was exceptionally talented, skilled in archery and the "Yi," "Zhuang," and "Lao" texts, and married Princess Changshan. He served as Zhongshu Lang and later as a servant, known for his eloquence and favored by Emperor Wu. However, he was inwardly jealous and harsh with words. He opposed sending Prince Sima You away, crying with the princess, which angered the emperor and led to demotion. As Henan Yin, he was dismissed for whipping an official. He was extravagant, paving a riding track with money and betting a prized cow with Wang Kai, cutting it up after winning. He once served human-milk-steamed food to the emperor, who left displeased. He understood horses, once recognizing a horse's reluctance to cross mud. He died at forty-six, posthumously named General of Hussars. At his funeral, Sun Chu brayed like a donkey in tribute, making guests laugh. He married a blind, jealous princess and had two sons by a concubine.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
年四十六，先浑卒，追赠骠骑将军。
及其将葬，时贤无不毕至。
孙楚雅敬济，而后来，哭之甚悲，宾客莫不垂涕。
哭毕，向灵床曰： 卿常好我作驴鸣，我为卿作之。
体似声真，宾客皆笑。
楚顾曰： 诸君不死，而令王济死乎！
初，济尚主，主两目失明，而妒忌尤甚，然终无子，有庶子二人。
卓字文宣，嗣浑爵，拜给事中。
次聿，字茂宣，袭公主封敏阳侯。
济二弟，澄字道深，汶字茂深，皆辩慧有才藻，并历清显。
王濬，字士治，弘农湖人也。
家世二千石。
濬博坟典，美姿貌，不修名行，不为乡曲所称。
晚乃变节，疏通亮达，恢廓有大志。
尝起宅，开门前路广数十步。
人或谓之何太过，濬曰： 吾欲使容长戟幡旗。
众咸笑之，濬曰： 陈胜有言，燕雀安知鸿鹄之志。
州郡辟河东从事。
守令有不廉洁者，皆望风自引而去。
刺史燕国徐邈有女才淑，择夫未嫁。
邈乃大会佐吏，令女于内观之。
女指濬告母，邈遂妻之。
后参征南军事，羊祜深知待之。
祜兄子暨白祜： 濬为人志太，奢侈不节，不可专任，宜有以裁之。
祜曰： 濬有大才，将欲济其所欲，必可用也。
转车骑从事中郎，识者谓祜可谓能举善焉。
除巴郡太守。
郡边吴境，兵士苦役，生男多不养。
濬乃严其科条，宽其徭课，其产育者皆与休复，所全活者数千人。
转广汉太守，垂惠布政，百姓赖之。
濬夜梦悬三刀于卧屋梁上，须臾又益一刀，濬警觉，意甚恶之。
主簿李毅再拜贺曰： 三刀为州字，又益一者，明府其临益州乎？
及贼张弘杀益州刺史皇甫晏，果迁濬为益州刺史。
濬设方略，悉诛弘等，以勋封关内侯。
translation: 
At the age of forty-six, he died before Wang Yun, and was posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
When it was about to be buried, all the wise men of that time came.
Sun Chu respected Wang Ji very much. He came late and cried very sadly. All the guests shed tears.
After crying, he said to the coffin: You often like me to bray like a donkey, so I will bray for you.
I learned that the shape is similar and the voice is lifelike, and the guests all laughed.
Yaochu looked back at them and said: You didn't die, but Wang Zha died!
At the beginning, Wang Ji married a princess. The princess was blind and very jealous. However, she never had children. She had two sons by his concubine.
The king, named Seixuan, inherited the title of Yuyun and paid homage to Shizhong.
The second son, Wang Lou, whose courtesy name was Jianxuan, succeeded the princess and was given the title of Qian Dancai.
Wang Zha has two younger brothers, Wang Tuo, whose courtesy name is Su, and Wang, who has a short stem. They are both good at talking, intelligent and literary, and both have held high and noble positions.
Wang Jun, courtesy name Shizhi, was from Hongnong Lake.
Someone in the family has been a prefect.
Wang Jun was well-read in ancient books and had a handsome appearance. He did not pay attention to reputation and conduct, and was not praised by the villagers.
Later, I changed my moral integrity, became open-minded and had great ambitions.
Once a house was built, dozens of steps were left in front of the door.
Someone asked him why he left too much space. Wang Jun said: I want to allow halberds and flags to be accommodated in front of the door.
Everyone laughed at him, and Wang Jun said: "Chen Sheng once said, how can the sparrow know the ambition of the swan?"
The state and county recruited him to work in Hedong.
Those who were dishonest among the officials all left on their own after hearing the news.
Xu Miao, a native of the state of Yan, the governor, had a daughter, Shu Xian, who was talented and unmarried.
Xu Miao gathered his subordinate officials in a grand ceremony and asked his daughter to watch them in their buns.
The daughter pointed at Wang Jun and told her mother, so Xu Miao married her daughter to him.
Later, when he participated in the Southern Military Campaign, Yang Hu understood and treated him favorably.
Yang Ji, the son of Yang Hu's elder brother, said to Yang Hu: Wang Jun's ambitions as a man are too excessive, his extravagance is intemperate, and he cannot be trusted too much. He should be restricted.
Yang Hu said: Wang Jun has a great talent. I will help him realize his wish and I will definitely use him.
He was transferred to the position of charioteer and knight, and knowledgeable people said that Yang Hu could recommend talented people.
He was appointed as the governor of Bajun.
Bajun is adjacent to the border with Wu State. The soldiers are hard at work and most of the boys are not supported.
Wang Jun then made the regulations strict and the corvee loose. Those who gave birth were allowed to rest and exempted from the corvee. Thousands of people survived in this way.
He was transferred to the post of governor of Guanghan and implemented benevolent and benevolent policies, and the people relied on him.
Wang Jun dreamed of three knives hanging on the beam in his bedroom at night, and then another knife was added. Wang Jun woke up with a start, hating this dream in his heart.
Li Yi, the chief registrar, paid two obeisances to congratulate him and said: "The three knives are the characters for state. One more sword has been added. I'm afraid you are going to Yizhou?"
When the thief Zhang Hong killed Huangfu Yan, the governor of Yizhou, he transferred Wang Jun to be the governor of Yizhou.
Wang Jun planned to kill Zhang Hong and others, and was named a Marquis of Guannei for their meritorious services.
summary:
Wang Jun, courtesy name Shizhi, was from Hongnong Lake. He was well-read and handsome, initially lacking reputation but later changed his ways. He built a house with a wide gate, saying it would accommodate halberds and flags. He married Xu Miao's daughter after she saw him at a gathering. Yang Hu recognized his talent and helped him. As Governor of Bajun, he eased corvée for newborns, saving thousands. As Governor of Guanghan, he was benevolent. He dreamed of knives, interpreted as a sign he would govern Yizhou, and became its governor, pacifying rebels. He built large ships for attacking Wu, with iron cones and locks countered by rafts and torches. He captured Wu territories, and Sun Hao surrendered. Wang Jun entered Shitou, accepting Sun Hao's surrender. He was promoted but conflicted with Wang Hun, who accused him of violating orders. Wang Jun defended himself, citing edicts and circumstances. He was made General of the Auxiliary State but felt under-rewarded, often complaining. He died at eighty, posthumously named Wu. His descendants later fell into poverty, prompting Huan Wen to request restoration of their title.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
泰始初，赐爵关内侯。
出补鄴令，彬道德齐礼，期月化成。
迁弋阳太守，明设禁防，百姓安之。
以母丧去官。
益州东接吴寇，监军位缺，朝议用武陵太守杨宗及彬。
武帝以问散骑常侍文立，立曰： 宗、彬俱不可失。
然彬多财欲，而宗好酒，惟陛下裁之。
帝曰： 财欲可足，酒者难改。
遂用彬。
寻又诏彬监巴东诸军事，加广武将军。
上征吴之策，甚合帝意。
后与王濬共伐吴，彬屯据冲要，为众军前驱。
每设疑兵，应机制胜，陷西陵、乐乡，多所擒获。
自巴陵、沔口以东，诸贼所聚，莫不震惧，倒戈肉袒。
彬知贼寇已殄，孙皓将降，未至建鄴二百里，称疾迟留，以示不竞。
果有先到者争物，后到者争功，于时有识莫不高彬此举。
吴平，诏曰： 广武将军唐彬受任方隅，东御吴寇，南监蛮越，抚宁疆埸，有绥御之绩。
又每慷慨，志在立功。
顷者征讨，扶疾奉命，首启戎行，献俘授馘，勋效显著。
其以彬为右将军、都督巴东诸军事。
征拜翊军校尉，改封上庸县侯，食邑六千户，赐绢六千匹。
朝有疑议，每参预焉。
北虏侵掠北平，以彬为使持节、监幽州诸军事、领护乌丸校尉、右将军。
彬既至镇，训卒利兵，广农重稼，震威耀武，宣喻国命，示以恩信。
于是鲜卑二部大莫廆、擿何等并遣侍子入贡。
兼修学校，诲诱无倦，仁惠广被。
遂开拓旧境，却地千里。
复秦长城塞，自温城洎于碣石，绵亘山谷且三千里，分军屯守，烽堠相望。
由是边境获安，无犬吠之警，自汉魏征镇莫之比焉。
鲜卑诸种畏惧，遂杀大莫廆。
彬欲讨之，恐列上俟报，虏必逃散，乃发幽冀车牛。
参军许祗密奏之。诏遣御史槛车征彬付廷尉，以事直见释。
百姓追慕彬功德，生为立碑作颂。
彬初受学于东海阎德，门徒甚多，独目彬有廊庙才。
及彬官成，而德已卒，乃为之立碑。
元康初，拜使持节、前将军、领西戎校尉、雍州刺史。
translation: 
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Ye Ling was left alone, Tang Bin's morals were in line with etiquette, and his education was completed in one year.
He was moved to the post of governor of Yiyang, and public bans were established to prevent it, and the people became stable.
He resigned from the palace because of his mother's funeral.
Yizhou was adjacent to the enemy invaders in Chengli, and there was a shortage of personnel for the position of military supervisor. The court discussed appointing Wuling prefects Yang Zong and Tang Bin.
Emperor Wu asked Wen Li, the regular attendant of Sanqi, about this incident. Wen Li said: "Neither Yang Zong nor Tang Bin should be lost."
However, Tang Bin has a strong desire for wealth and Yang Zong is a drunkard. Please ask your Majesty to rule.
Emperor Wu said: The desire for money can be satisfied, but it is difficult for people who are greedy to change.
So Tang Bin was appointed.
Soon after, Tang Bin was ordered to supervise the military affairs in Badong and was awarded the title of General Guangwu.
Shangshu discussed the strategy of conquering Wu, which was very much in line with the emperor's wishes.
Later, he and Wang Yi conquered the stars together, and Lu Qian occupied the main transportation road and served as the vanguard of the army.
Always set up suspicious soldiers and seize the opportunity to win. They captured Xiling and Lexiang and captured many enemies.
From the east of Danyi and Maggot, wherever the enemy troops gathered, everyone was shocked and frightened, and they all turned over and surrendered.
Tang Bin knew that the enemy was in a desperate situation and Sun Hao was about to surrender. He was 200 miles away from Jianye and stayed there claiming to be ill to show that he would not take credit.
Sure enough, those who arrived first competed for things, and those who arrived later competed for credit. All knowledgeable people at that time praised Lu Qu's move.
Yuli was pacified, Shao Shu said; Guangwu general Lu Si served on the border, resisted the Cheng bandits to the east, faced the barbarian Yue to the south, pacified and stabilized the battlefield, and had the merit of stabilizing the country and resisting the enemy.
He often makes generous speeches and aims to achieve meritorious service.
During the recent expedition, he accepted orders even though he was ill, and made prisoners and killed enemies for the vanguard of the army, which was a remarkable achievement.
Lu Yan was appointed as the right general and the military commander of Dansai.
He was conscripted into the Yi Military Academy and granted the title of Marquis of Shangyong County. He was granted a settlement of 6,000 households and was given 6,000 bolts of silk.
If the court had any problems, he would often get involved.
The enemy invaders from the north invaded and plundered Peiping, so Tang Bin was appointed as envoy Chijie, supervising Youye's military affairs, and also protecting Karasuma's captain and right general.
After Tang Ao arrived at the border town, he trained soldiers to repair weapons, expanded farmland and focused on agriculture, inspired military power to show force, publicized national laws, and showed kindness and credit.
So the two tribes of Xianbei, Damo Mo and Lao He, sent their sons to serve the emperor as hostages.
Tang Bin studied in school concurrently, taught tirelessly and spread kindness and kindness widely.
So we opened up the old borders and advanced thousands of miles.
The Qin Great Wall fortress was restored, stretching nearly three thousand miles in the valley from Wencheng to Jieshi. It was divided into garrison troops and guarded by beacon towers.
From then on, the border was peaceful, and there were no dogs barking to call the police. No general since Luo Wei could compare with him.
The Xianbei tribes were afraid, so they killed Damo Mo.
Tang Bin wanted to attack them, but he was afraid that if he waited for the report according to the procedure, the enemies would definitely flee, so he mobilized Youji chariots and cattle.
Xu Zhi, who joined the army, reported secretly and issued an imperial edict to send the imperial censor to escort Tang Bin to the imperial court. However, he was released due to unforeseen circumstances.
The people admired Tang Bin's merits and built monuments to praise him while Tang Bin was still alive.
Tang Bin first studied in Yande, Donghai. Yande had many students, but he only thought that Tang Bin had the ability to serve as an official in the court.
When Tang Bin became an official and Yan De was dead, a monument was erected for Yan De.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, former general, Xirong school captain, and Yongzhou governor.
summary:
Tang Bin, courtesy name Confucian, was from Zou. He was skilled in riding and archery and studied the "Book of Changes." He served as a county official and was recommended for his talent. He investigated Deng Ai's execution, reporting no border concerns. As Governor of Yiyang, he stabilized the people. He was appointed General Guangwu to supervise Badong military affairs. During the Wu campaign, he served as vanguard, capturing Xiling and Lexiang. He feigned illness near Jianye to avoid credit disputes. He later guarded the northern border, training soldiers and expanding farmland, restoring the Great Wall and securing peace. He died at sixty, posthumously named Xiang. The historian's commentary notes that Wang Hun and Wang Jun both contributed to pacifying Wu but were marred by jealousy and conflict, while Tang Bin's humility preserved his integrity.

