Chunk 0: 
original: 
冯奉世字子明，上党潞人也，徙杜陵。
其先冯亭，为韩上党守。
秦攻上党，绝太行道，韩不能守，冯亭乃入上党城守于赵。
赵封冯亭为华阳君，与赵将括距秦，战死于长平。
宗族由是分散，或留潞，或在赵。
在赵者为官帅将，官帅将子为代相。
及秦灭六国，而冯亭之后冯毋择、冯去疾、冯劫皆为秦将相焉。
汉兴，文帝时冯唐显名，即代相子也。
至武帝末，奉世以良家子选为郎。
昭帝时，以功次补武安长。
失官，年三十余矣，乃学《春秋》涉大义，读兵法明习，前将军韩增奏以为军司空令。
本始中，从军击匈奴。
军罢，复为郎。
先是时，汉数出使西域，多辱命不称，或贪污，为外国所苦。
是时，乌孙大有击匈奴之功，而西域诸国新辑，汉方善遇，欲以安之，选可使外国者。
前将军增举奉世以卫候使持节送大宛诸国客。
至伊脩城，都尉宋将言莎车与旁国共攻杀汉所置莎车王万年，并杀汉使者奚充国。
时，匈奴又发兵攻车师城，不能下而去。
莎车遣使扬言北道诸国已属匈奴矣，于是攻劫南道，与歃盟畔汉，从鄯善以西皆绝不通。
都护郑吉、校尉司马意皆在北道诸国间。
奉世与其副严昌计，以为不亟击之则莎车日强，其势难制，必危西域。
遂以节谕告诸国王，因发其兵，南北道合万五千人进击莎车，攻拔其城。
莎车王自杀，传其首诣长安。
诸国悉平，威振西域。
奉世乃罢兵以闻。
宣帝召见韩增，曰： 贺将军所举得其人。
奉世遂西至大苑。
大苑闻其斩莎车王，敬之异于它使。
得其名马象龙而还。
上甚说，下议封奉世。
translation: 
Feng Fengshi, courtesy name Ziming, was a native of Lu County, Shangdang County, and later moved to Duling.
His ancestor Feng Ting was the governor of Shangdang County in South Korea.
Qin attacked Shangdang and blocked the passage in the Taihang Mountains. South Korea could not defend it, so Feng Ting dedicated Shangdang City to Zhao and defended it.
The State of Zhao granted Feng Ting the title of Lord of Huayang, and together with General Zhao Kuo of the State of Zhao, he resisted the State of Qin and died in battle in Changping.
Since then, the Feng family has dispersed in various places, some staying in Lu County and some traveling to other places.
Those in Zhao became official generals, and the sons of official generals became prime ministers of the country.
After Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, Feng Ting's descendants Feng Wuze, Feng Quji, and Feng Jie all became Qin's generals.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Feng Tang was very famous during the reign of Emperor Wen. He was the son of the Prime Minister of Dai.
By the end of Emperor Wu's reign, Feng Fengshi was elected as a Langguan because he was a son of a good family.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, he was appointed as the Chang Palace of Wu'an County in accordance with the size and order of his achievements.
When he was dismissed from office, he was already in his thirties. He only studied "Spring and Autumn", studied its subtle meanings, read the art of war, and knew its contents and examples. Former general Han Zeng reported to him and appointed him as the military commander.
During this period, he accompanied the army to attack the Xiongnu.
After the war, he became a Langguan again.
Prior to this, the Han Dynasty sent envoys to the Western Regions several times, but most of them failed to fulfill their mission, some were corrupt, and some were made difficult and insulted by foreign countries.
At this time, the Wusun Kingdom was very powerful and had the merit of attacking the Xiongnu. At the same time, the countries in the Western Regions had just reconciled with the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty was preparing to treat them well. If they wanted to take the opportunity to appease these countries, they selected people who could be sent as envoys to foreign countries.
Former general Han Zeng recommended Feng Fengshi to escort guests from Dawan and other countries back home as an envoy.
When they arrived at Yixiu City, Captain Song said that the Shache people, together with some other countries, had attacked and killed King Wannian of Shache appointed by the Han Dynasty, and also killed Xi Chongguo, the envoy of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the Xiongnu sent troops to attack Cheshi City again, but they went back because they failed to capture it.
The Shache Kingdom sent envoys to threaten that the Northern Kingdoms had belonged to the Xiongnu. At that time, they attacked and plundered the Southern Kingdoms, and made a blood alliance with them to betray the Han Dynasty, cutting off all traffic from the Shanshan Kingdom to the west.
The Protector Zheng Ji and the Colonel Sima Yi were both trapped among the countries on the North Road.
Feng Fengshi discussed with his deputy Yan Lu and believed that if they did not attack quickly, the Shache Kingdom would become increasingly powerful, making the situation difficult to control and jeopardizing the entire Western Region.
So he notified the kings by envoys and mobilized their armies. A total of 15,000 people from the north and south attacked the Shache Kingdom and captured its city.
King Shache committed suicide and his head was sent to Chang'an.
All the countries were pacified, and Feng Fengshi's reputation shocked the Western Regions.
Feng Fengshi withdrew his troops and returned home, reporting the situation to the court.
Emperor Xuan summoned Han Zeng and said: Congratulations to the general on the competent person he recommended.
Feng Fengshi traveled west to the Kingdom of Dayuan.
The Kingdom of Dawan heard that he had killed King Shache and respected him more than other envoys.
After getting the famous horse Xianglong from Dayuan, he returned to Chang'an.
The emperor was very happy and issued an order to discuss the matter of rewarding Feng Fengshi.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
丞相、将军皆曰： 《春秋》之义，大夫出疆，有可以安国家，则颛之可也。
奉世功效尤著，宜加爵士之赏。
少府萧望之独以奉世奉使有指，而擅矫制违命，发诸国兵，虽有功效，不可以为后法。
即封奉世，开后奉使者利，以奉世为比，争逐发兵，要功万里之外，为国家生事于夷狄。
渐不可长，奉世不宜受封。
上善望之议，以奉世为光禄大夫、水衡都尉。
元帝即位，为执金吾。
上郡属国归义降胡万余人反去。
初，昭帝末，西河属国胡伊酋若王亦将众数千人畔，奉世辄持节将兵追击。
右将军典属国常惠薨，奉世代为右将军典属国，加诸吏之号。
数岁，为光禄勋。
永光二年秋，陇西羌彡姐旁种反，诏召丞相韦玄成、御史大夫郑弘、大司马车骑将军王接、左将军许嘉、右将军奉世入议。
是时，岁比不登，京师谷石二百余，边郡四百，关东五百。
四方饥馑，朝廷方以为忧，而遭羌变。
玄成等漠然莫有对者。
奉世曰： 羌虏近在境内背畔，不以时诛，亡以威制远蛮。
臣愿帅师讨之。
上问用兵之数，对曰： 臣闻善用兵者，役不再兴，粮不三载，故师不久暴而天诛亟决。
往者数不料敌，而师至于折伤；再三发軵，则旷日烦费，威武亏矣。
今反虏无虑三万人，法当倍用六万人。
然羌戎弓矛之兵耳，器不犀利，可用四万人，一月足以决。
丞相、御史、两将军皆以为民方收敛时，未可多发；万人屯守之，且足。
奉世曰： 不可。
translation: 
The prime minister and the generals all said: The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that when an official is on a mission abroad, if he encounters something that is beneficial to the country, he can take matters into his own hands.
Feng Fengshi's contribution is particularly significant, and he should be awarded a title and land.
Xiao Wangzhi, the Shaofu, believed that Feng Feng was on an envoy mission and had his mission, but he pretended to be the emperor's order and went against the will and sent troops from various countries. Although he had merit, he should not be used as an example for future generations.
If Feng Fengshi is to be rewarded, it will open the door for future envoys to use Feng Fengshi as an example to mobilize armies, claim credit and reward from thousands of miles away, and cause trouble for the country among the Yi and Di tribes.
This is an unacceptable example, and Feng Fengshi should not be rewarded.
The emperor thought Xiao Wangzhi's suggestion was good, and granted Feng Fengshi the titles of Doctor Guanglu and Captain Shuiheng.
Emperor Yuan came to the throne, and Feng Fengshi was appointed as Jinwu.
More than 10,000 Hu people from the vassal state of Shangjun surrendered to the Han Dynasty and rebelled.
At the beginning, in the last years of Emperor Zhao's reign, King Yiruo, a Hu from the Xihe County vassal state, also led thousands of people to rebel. Feng Fengshi immediately led an envoy and led an army to pursue them.
Chang Hui, the right general of the Dian Kingdom, passed away, and Feng Fengshi succeeded him as the right general of the Dian Kingdom, adding the titles of various officials.
A few years later, he became Guang Luxun.
In the autumn of the second year of Yongguang's reign, a branch of the Qiang village sisters in Longxi County rebelled. The emperor summoned Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng, imperial censor Zheng Hong, Da Sima Cavalry General Wang Jie, left general Xu Jia, and right general Feng Fengshi to come to the court to discuss countermeasures.
At that time, the crops were not harvested in consecutive years, and grain was sold for more than 200 fen per stone in Kyoto, 400 fen per stone in border counties, and 500 fen per stone in Kanto.
There was famine everywhere, and the court was worried about it, but it encountered a rebellion by the Qiang people.
Wei Xuancheng and others were silent and no one spoke.
Feng Fengshi said: The Qiang bandits are rebelling within the borders of the country. If they are not killed in time, there will be no way to subdue the barbarians far away.
I am willing to lead an army against them.
The emperor asked about the number of troops needed, and replied: I heard that those who are good at using troops will not use troops twice or transport food three times. Therefore, the army should not be deployed for a long time, and the crusade in obedience to God's will should be carried out quickly.
In the past, we often failed to measure the enemy's situation, and the army suffered losses; transporting food multiple times would take a long time and consume a lot of time, and the morale of the army would be low.
There are currently about 30,000 rebel soldiers. According to the law of war, an additional 60,000 people should be mobilized.
The Qiang Rong were an army that only used bows and spears. Their weapons were not sharp. They could mobilize 40,000 men and a month would be enough to solve the problem.
The prime minister, the censor, and the two generals all believed that the people were in the harvest season and could not send more troops; 10,000 troops were stationed for defense, which was almost enough.
Feng Fengshi said: No.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
天下被饥馑，士马羸秏，守战之备久废不简，夷狄皆有轻边吏之心，而羌首难。
今以万人分屯数外，虏见兵少，必不畏惧，战则挫兵病师，守则百姓不救。
如此，怯弱之形见，羌人乘利，诸种并和，相扇而起，臣恐中国之役不得止于四万，非财币所能解也。
故少发师而旷日，与一举而疾决，利害相万也。
固争之，不能得。
有诏益二千人。
于是遣奉世将万二千人骑，以将屯为名。
典属国任立、护军都尉韩昌为偏裨，到陇西，分屯三处。
典属国为右军，屯白石；护军都尉为前军，屯临洮；奉世为中军，屯首阳西极上。
前军到降同阪，先遣校尉在前与羌争地利，又别遣校尉救民于广阳谷。
羌虏盛多，皆为所破，杀两校尉。
奉世具上地形部众多少之计，愿益三万六千人乃足以决事。
书奏，天子大为发兵六万余人，拜太常弋阳侯任千秋为奋武将军以助焉。
奉世上言： 愿得其众，不须烦大将。
因陈转输之费。
上于是以玺书劳奉世，且让之，曰： 皇帝问将兵右将军，甚苦暴露。
羌虏侵边境，杀吏民，甚逆天道，故遣将军帅士大夫行天诛。
以将军材质之美，奋精兵，诛不轨，百下百全之道也。
今乃有畔敌之名，大为中国羞。
以昔不闲习之故邪？
以恩厚未洽，信约不明也？
朕甚怪之。
上书言羌虏依深山，多径道，不得不多分部遮要害，须得后发营士，足以决事，部署已定，势不可复置大将，闻之。
前为将军兵少，不足自守，故发近所骑，日夜诣，非为击也。
今发三辅、河东、弘农越骑、迹射、佽飞、彀者、羽林孤儿及呼速累、嗕种，方急遣。
且兵，凶器也，必有成败者，患策不豫定，料敌不审也，故复遣奋武将军。
兵法曰大将军出必有偏裨，所以扬威武，参计策，将军又何疑焉？
夫爱吏士，得众心，举而无悔，禽敌必全，将军之职也。
若乃转输之费，则有司存，将军勿忧。
须奋武将军兵到，合击羌虏。
十月，兵毕至陇西。
十一月，并进。
translation: 
The country suffered from famine, the soldiers and horses were thin and few in number, and the war equipment had been left unmaintained for a long time. All the Yi and Di tribes had the intention to despise the border officials, so the Qiang people were the first to attack.
Now ten thousand men are divided into several places to defend several places. The traitors will not be afraid when they see that our army is small in number. In battle, the army will be damaged and morale will be low, and the rules will not be able to save the people.
If this happens and the cowardice is revealed, the Qiang people will take the opportunity to attack, and all the ethnic minorities will respond together and incite each other to raise troops. I am afraid that the Han Dynasty will have to collect more than 40,000 soldiers. This cannot be solved by money.
Therefore, sending less troops will take a long time. Compared with quickly solving the problem in one battle, the benefits and risks are ten thousand times different.
Feng Fengshi persisted in fighting but could not get more troops.
Another edict was issued to increase the number of 2,000 people.
Immediately dispatched Feng Fengshi to lead 12,000 soldiers and horses to set off, in the name of leading troops to farm.
Han Chang, the captain of the Dian Kingdom and the military guard, was appointed as the deputy general and went to Longxi County to station troops in three places.
Dian Zhuguo was appointed as the right army, stationed at Baishi; the guard captain Han Chang was appointed as the front army, stationed at Lintao; Feng Fengshi was appointed as the central army, stationed at Xiji Mountain in Shouyang County.
When the former army arrived at Tongban, they first sent a school lieutenant to compete with the Qiang people in front for favorable terrain, and then sent another school lieutenant to Guangyang Valley to rescue the people.
There were so many Qiang bandits that the officers and soldiers were defeated and two captains were killed.
Feng Fengshi reported the terrain and plans for how many troops would be needed to the emperor, and requested an additional 36,000 troops, which would be enough to resolve the war.
According to the letter, the emperor sent more than 60,000 troops and appointed Taichang Yiyang Marquis Ren Qianqiu as General Fenwu to help him.
Feng Fengshi reported: I hope to get a large number of soldiers, so I don't need to trouble the generals.
So Chen asked for the cost of transshipment.
At that time, the emperor sent a letter to express condolences to Feng Fengshi, but also blamed him, saying: The emperor expressed condolences to the right general who was leading the army. It was very hard to fight abroad.
The Qiang bandits invaded the border and killed officials and people, which was against the will of heaven, so they sent generals and army generals to kill them according to God's will.
With the outstanding qualities of a general, leading elite troops to attack unruly bandits, there is a principle of victory in every battle.
Now he actually has the reputation of not daring to attack in the face of battle, which is too embarrassing for the Han Dynasty.
Is it because I was not familiar with military affairs before?
Or is it because the favor is not widespread and military discipline is unclear?
I'm very strange.
You wrote a letter saying that the Qiang rebels had to divide their troops to occupy key areas due to the deep mountains and many small roads. Then they had to mobilize the garrisoned soldiers to solve the problem. The army deployment has been decided, and judging from the situation, no more generals can be arranged. I understand.
In the past, because the general lacked soldiers to defend, he dispatched nearby cavalry and rushed there day and night, not for offense.
Sanfu, Hedong, Hongnong Yueqi, Jishe, Youfei, Yuzhe, Yulin Orphan, Husuqi and Zhengzhong are currently being mobilized at a rapid pace.
War is a dangerous thing, and there will definitely be success or failure. I am afraid that the strategy is not agreed upon in advance, and it is not prudent to understand the enemy's situation, so I send General Fenwu.
The Art of War says that when a general goes on an expedition, he must have a supporting general to show off his power and provide advice. What doubts does the general have?
Care for the soldiers, gain military morale, and you will not regret your decision. You must be thorough in capturing the enemy. This is the responsibility of the general.
As for the transportation costs, special officials are responsible for them, so the general does not have to worry.
Wait until General Fenwu's troops arrive and attack the Qiang bandits together.
In October, the army gathered in Longxi County.
In November, attack together.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
羌虏大破，斩首数千级，余皆走出塞。
兵未决间，汉复发募士万人，拜定襄太守韩安国为建威将军。
未进，闻羌破，还。上曰： 羌虏破散创艾，亡逃出塞，其罢吏士，颇留屯田，备要害处。
明年二月，奉世还京师，更为左将军光禄勋如故。
其后录功拜爵，下诏曰： 羌虏桀黠，贼害吏民，攻陇西府寺，燔烧置亭，绝道桥，甚逆天道。
左将军光禄勋奉世前将兵征讨，斩捕首虏八千余级，卤马、牛、羊以万数。
赐奉世爵关内侯，良邑五百户，黄金六十斤。
裨将、校尉三十余人，皆拜。
后岁余，奉世病卒。
居爪牙官前后十年，为折冲宿将，功名次赵充国。
奋武将军任千秋者，其父宫，昭帝时以丞相征事捕斩反者左将军上官桀，封侯，宣帝时为太常，薨。
千秋嗣后，复为太常。
成帝时，乐昌侯王商代奉世为左将军，而千秋为右将军，后亦为左将军。
子孙传国，至王莽乃绝云。
奉世死后二年，西域都护甘延寿以诛郅支单于封为列侯。
时，丞相匡衡亦用延寿矫制生事，据萧望之前议，以为不当封，而议者咸美其功，上从众而侯之。
于是杜钦上疏，追讼奉世前功曰： 前莎车王杀汉使者，约诸国背畔。
左将军奉世以卫候便宜发兵诛莎车王，策定城郭，功施边境。
议者以奉世奉使有指，《春秋》之义亡遂事，汉家之法有矫制，故不得侯。
令匈奴郅支单于杀汉使者，亡保康居，都护延寿发城郭兵屯田吏士四万余人以诛斩之，封为列侯。
臣愚以为比罪则郅支薄，量敌则莎车众，用师则奉世寡，计胜则奉世为功于边境安，虑败则延寿为祸于国家深。
其违命而擅生事同，延寿割地封，而奉世独不录。
translation: 
The Qiang thieves were defeated and thousands of their heads were beheaded, while the rest fled across the border.
When the outcome of the war was still undecided, the Han Dynasty recruited another 10,000 soldiers and appointed Han Anguo, the prefect of Dingxiang, as General Jianwei.
Before setting off, I heard that the Qiang rebels had been defeated. The emperor said: The Qiang rebels were defeated and punished, and fled from the border. Those soldiers who had a truce should leave more field guards to defend key points.
In February of the next year, Feng Fengshi returned to the capital and was appointed General Zuo, while Guang Luxun's position remained unchanged.
After recording his meritorious service and conferring a title, the emperor issued an edict saying: The Qiang thieves were cruel and cunning, killing officials and common people, attacking Longxi County government offices, burning post houses, and cutting off roads and bridges, which greatly violated the law of heaven.
The general of the left, Guang Luxun and Feng Fengshi, led an army to conquer the area, beheading more than 8,000 prisoners and seizing tens of thousands of cattle, horses and sheep.
Feng Fengshi was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, a settlement of 500 households, and 60 kilograms of gold.
More than thirty generals and lieutenants were rewarded.
More than a year later, Feng Fengshi died of illness.
He served as a military general for ten years. He was a veteran general who killed enemies and defended the country, and his reputation was second only to Tong Chongguo.
General Fenwu was appointed Qianqiu, and his father was appointed to the palace. During Emperor Zhao's reign, he used the prime minister's campaign to capture and kill the rebellious left general Shangguan Jie, and granted him the title of Marquis. Emperor Xuan was appointed Taichang and died.
Qianqiu inherited the title and was appointed Taichang.
When he became emperor, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Lechang, replaced Feng Fengshi as the left general, while Ren Qianqiu was appointed the right general, and later the left general.
Descendants inherited the title from generation to generation until the era of Wang Mang.
Two years after Feng Fengshi's death, Gan Yanshou, the governor of the Western Regions, was named a prince because he killed the Zhizhi Chanyu.
At that time, Prime Minister Kuang Heng also used Gan Yanshou's counterfeit edicts to cause trouble as an excuse. Based on Xiao Wangzhi's case, he believed that Gan Yanshou should not be made a marquis. However, the commentators all praised Gan Yanshou's achievements, and the emperor followed everyone's opinions and made him a marquis.
At that time, Du Qin went to Shangshu and praised Feng Fengshi's previous contributions: In the past, King Yarkand killed the envoys of the Han Dynasty and formed an alliance with other countries to betray the Han Dynasty.
General Feng Fengshi of the left, as a guard, sent troops to annihilate the King of Shache according to convenient conditions, used strategies to stabilize the city, and made great contributions to the border areas.
Commentators believed that Feng Fengshi had his mission as an envoy. According to the meaning of the Spring and Autumn Annals, ministers cannot act arbitrarily. According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, it was a crime of restraint, so he could not be granted a title.
Now the Xiongnu Zhizhi Chanyu killed the envoys of the Han Dynasty and fled to the state of Kangju. The governor Gan Yanshou sent more than 40,000 soldiers from the city and soldiers in the field to kill him and made him a prince.
In my humble opinion, in terms of crime, Zhi Zhi Shan is lighter than Zhi Zhi; in terms of military strength, Yash Che is more than Zhi Zhi; in terms of the use of troops, Feng Fengshi is less; in terms of the degree of victory, Feng Fengshi has contributed to the peace of the border; in terms of failure, it is the disaster that Yanshou has brought to the country.
They had the same crime of disobeying orders and causing trouble. However, Yanshou ceded lands and made lords, but Feng Fengshi did not remember the rewards.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣闻功同赏异则劳臣疑，罪钧刑殊则百姓惑；疑生无常，惑生不知所从；亡常则节趋不立，不知所从则百姓无所措手足。
奉世图难忘死，信命殊俗，威功白著，为世使表，独抑厌而不扬，非圣主所以塞疑厉节之意也。
愿下有司议。
上以先帝时事，不复录。
奉世有子男九人，女四人。
长女媛以选充兵宫，为元帝昭仪，产中山孝王。
元帝崩，媛为中山太后，随王就国。
奉世长子谭，太常举孝廉为郎，功次补天水司马。
奉世击西羌，谭为校尉，随父从军有功，未拜病死。
谭弟野王、逡、立、参至大官。
野王字君卿，受业博士，通《诗》。
少以父任为太子中庶子。
年十八，上书愿试守长安令。
宣帝奇其志，问丞相魏相，相以为不可许。
后以功次补当阳长，迁为栎阳令，徙夏阳令。
元帝时，迁陇西太守，以治行高，入为左冯翊。
岁余，而池阳令并素行贪污，轻野王外戚年少，治行不改。
野王部督邮掾礻殳祤赵都案验，得其主守盗十金罪，收捕。
并不首吏，都格杀。
并家上书陈冤，事下廷尉。
都诣吏自杀以明野王，京师称其威信，迁为大鸿胪。
数年，御史大夫李延寿病卒，在位多举野王。
上使尚书选第中二千石，而野王行能第一。
上曰： 吾用野王为三公，后世必谓我私后宫亲属，以野王为比。
乃下诏曰： 刚强坚固，确然亡欲，大鸿胪野王是也。
心辨善辞，可使四方，少府五鹿充宗是也。
translation: 
I heard that if the merits are the same and the rewards are different, the ministers who have worked hard will have doubts; if the crime is the same but the punishment is different, the people will be confused; doubts will lead to uncertainty, and confusion will lead to not knowing what to do; uncertainty will lead to unclear systems and directions, and not knowing what to follow will lead to the people not knowing how to act.
Feng Fengshi relieved the danger, risked his life in the battle, completed the mission with extraordinary achievements, and achieved a remarkable reputation. He was a model for generations of envoys, but he was suppressed and did not praise him. This is not the meaning of a sage monarch who eliminates doubts and encourages integrity.
I hope it will be handed over to the relevant departments for discussion.
The emperor believed that this was a matter of the late emperor's time, so he no longer accepted his opinion.
Feng Fengshi had nine sons and four daughters.
The eldest daughter Feng Yuan was elected to the palace as Emperor Yuan Zhaoyi and gave birth to Prince Xiao of Zhongshan.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Feng Yuan became the Queen Mother of Zhongshan and followed King Xiao of Zhongshan to the feudal state.
Feng Fengshi's eldest son, Feng Tan, was recommended by Taichang as Xiaolian to be a Langguan, and he was appointed Tianshui Sima in order of merit.
Feng Fengshi attacked Xiqiang. Feng Tan was a captain. He served in the army with his father and died of illness before he was promoted to an official.
Feng Tan's younger brothers Feng Yewang, Feng Kui, Feng Li, and Feng Shen all became high officials.
Feng Yewang, nicknamed Junqing, studied with a doctor and was proficient in the Book of Songs.
When he was young, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine because his father was an official.
When he was eighteen years old, he wrote to the emperor hoping to be tried as the magistrate of Chang'an County.
Emperor Xuan was surprised by his ambition and asked Prime Minister Wei Xiang, who thought it was unacceptable.
Later, he was appointed Dangyang County Magistrate in order of merit, promoted to Liyang County Magistrate, and transferred to Xiayang County Magistrate.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, he was promoted to the prefect of Longxi County. Because of his outstanding political achievements, he entered the court and served as Zuo Fengyi.
For more than a year, the magistrate of Chiyang County, who was not known to be corrupt, despised King Feng Ye as a young relative, and did not correct his misdeeds in governance.
King Feng Ye deployed the postal supervisor Zhao Du from Touxu County to file a case for investigation and found out that the person in power was responsible for stealing ten gold coins from himself and arrested him.
When he refused to obey the arrest, Zhao Duge killed him.
Bing's family wrote a letter stating their grievances, and the matter was handed over to Tingwei.
Zhao Du committed suicide in front of the officials to prove that he had nothing to do with King Feng Ye. People in the capital praised his prestige and promoted him to Dahonglu.
A few years later, the imperial censor Li Yanshou died of illness, and many officials recommended King Feng Ye to succeed him.
The emperor sent the minister to select two thousand-level officials, and King Feng Ye ranked first in terms of character and ability.
The emperor said: If I use King Feng Ye as the three princes, future generations will definitely use this as an example to say that I prefer concubines in the harem.
Then Xia Shao said: The man who is strong and resolute, and truly has no selfish desires, is the king of Da Honglu and Feng Ye.
He can speak eloquently and can be sent to various places, such as Shaofu Wulu Chongzong.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
廉洁节俭，太子少傅张谭是也。
其以少傅为御史大夫。
上繇下第而用谭，越次避嫌不用野王，以昭仪兄故也。
野王乃叹曰： 人皆以女宠贵，我兄弟独以贱！
野王虽不为三公，甚见器重，有名当世。
成帝立，有司奏野王王舅，不宜备九卿，以秩出为上郡太守，加赐黄金百斤。
朔方刺史萧育奏封事，荐言： 野王行能高妙，内足与图身，外足以虑化。
窃惜野王怀国之宝，而不得陪朝廷与朝者并。
野王前以王舅出，以贤复入，明国家乐进贤也。
上自为太子时闻知野王。
会其病免，复以故二千石使行河堤，因拜为琅邪太守。
是时，成帝长舅阳平侯王凤为大司马大将军，辅政八九年矣，时数有灾异，京兆尹王章讥凤专权不可任用，荐野王代凤。
上初纳其言，而后诛章，语在《元后传》。
于是野王惧不自安，遂病，满三月赐告，与妻子归杜陵就医药。
大将军凤风御史中丞劾奏野王赐告养病而私自便，持虎符出界归家，奉诏不敬。
杜钦时在大将军莫府，钦素高野王父子行能，奏记于凤，为野王言曰： 窃见令曰，吏二千石告，过长安谒，不分别予赐。
今有司以为予告得归，赐告不得，是一律两科，失省刑之意。
夫三最予告，令也；病满三月赐告，诏恩也。
令告则得，诏恩不得，失轻重之差。
又二千石病赐告得归有故事，不得去郡亡著令。
传曰： 赏疑从予，所以广恩劝功也；罚疑从去，所以慎刑，阙难知也。
今释令与故事而假不敬之法，甚违阙疑从去之意。
即以二千石守千里之地，任兵马之重，不宜去郡，将以制刑为后法者，则野王之罪，在未制令前也。
刑赏大信，不可不慎。
凤不听，竟免野王。
郡国二千石病赐告不得归家，自此始。
translation: 
The most honest and frugal person is Zhang Tan, the young master of the prince.
Shaofu Zhang Tan is now appointed as the imperial censor.
The emperor appointed Zhang Tan from a subordinate position and went beyond the rank to avoid suspicion and did not use Feng Yewang because he was Zhaoyi's brother.
King Feng Ye then sighed and said: Others are noble because of the emperor's favored concubine, but our brothers are humble because of it!
Although King Feng Ye did not become a third official, he was highly regarded and was very famous at that time.
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, the relevant departments reported that King Feng Ye was the uncle of the country and was not suitable for the post of Jiuqing. According to his rank, he will serve as the prefect of Shangjun and will be rewarded with one hundred catties of gold.
Xiao Yu, the governor of Shuofang, reported a secret report and recommended that King Feng Ye was of outstanding character and ability, capable of considering himself in domestic affairs and capable of strategy and enlightenment in diplomacy.
It is a pity that King Feng Ye is the pillar of governing the country, but he cannot assist the government and serve as ministers in the government.
King Feng Ye was previously transferred from the court because he was the uncle of the state, and he was also transferred to the court because of his virtuousness, which shows that the country is willing to employ virtuous people.
The emperor had heard of King Feng Ye since he was the crown prince.
It happened that he was dismissed from his post due to illness, and managed the Yellow River embankment at the original level of two thousand stones, so he was named Langxie Prefect.
At that time, the emperor's eldest uncle, Yangpinghou Wang Feng, was appointed as the Grand Sima General and had been assisting the government for eight or nine years. Several disasters occurred at that time. King Yin Zhang of Jingzhao ridiculed Wang Feng for his exclusive power and recommended that Feng Yewang replace Wang Feng.
The emperor initially accepted Wang Zhang's suggestion, but later Wang Zhang was executed, and the incident was recorded in the "Biography of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty".
So King Feng Ye was frightened and uneasy, so he fell ill. After three months of sick leave, he took another sick leave and returned to Duling with his wife and children for treatment.
General Wang Feng instructs Yushi Zhongcheng to impeach King Feng Ye for taking leave to recuperate for his own well-being, and going home with a tiger talisman out of bounds, which is disrespectful to the emperor's edict.
Du Qin was in the shogunate of General Wang Feng at the time. He always respected the character and talents of Feng Yewang and his son, so he presented a memorial to Wang Feng and spoke for Feng Yewang: I saw the edict saying that two thousand stone-level officials asked for leave and passed through Chang'an to pay homage. There was no distinction between giving and reporting.
Now the relevant departments believe that King Feng Ye was able to recuperate his illness, but could not approve the prosecution. These are two levels of the same law, which loses the meaning of reducing the penalty.
The most prominent thing is to give a warning during the three performance appraisals, which is an order; to give a warning after three months of illness is to give a warning, which is an edict from the emperor to bestow favors.
Orders and reports can be obtained, but favors cannot be obtained, and the difference between importance and importance is lost.
In addition, there is a tradition that officials with two thousand stone rank are allowed to go home if they are sick, and there is no explicit rule that they cannot leave the county.
An old saying goes: Rewards are given when merit is unclear, in order to show kindness and encourage meritorious deeds; punishment should be waived when faults are not obvious, in order to be careful about punishment and not to deal with things that are difficult to know.
Nowadays, disregarding laws and old practices and relying on disrespectful laws is contrary to the original meaning of Quexin.
Even if there are two thousand stone-level officials guarding the surrounding area and holding important military positions, they should not leave the garrison and use punishment as the law of future generations. Then the crime of King Feng Ye is that he did not formulate a law before.
Punishments and rewards should be very credible and should not be lax.
Wang Feng refused to listen and was eventually removed from the Wild King's official position.
Officials with a rank of 2,000 or so in the county were told not to go home, and that was the beginning.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
初，野王嗣父爵为关内侯，免归。
数年，年老，终于家。
子座嗣爵，至孙坐中山太后事绝。
逡字子产，通《易》，太常察孝廉为郎，补谒者。
建昭中，选为复土校尉。
光禄勋于永举茂材，为美阳令。
功次迁长乐屯卫司马，清河都尉，陇西太守。
治行廉平，年四十余卒。
为都尉时，言河堤方略，在《沟洫志》。
立字圣卿，通《春秋》。
以父任为郎，稍迁诸曹。
竟宁中，以王舅出为五原属国都尉。
数年，迁五原太守，徙西河、上郡。
立居职公廉，治行略与野王相似，而多知有恩贷，好为条教。
吏民嘉美野王、立相代为太守，歌之曰： 大冯君，小冯君，兄弟继踵相因循，聪明贤知惠吏民，政如鲁、卫德化钧，周公、康叔犹二君。
后迁为东海太守，下湿病痹。
天子闻之，徙立为太原太守。
更历五郡，所居有迹。
年老卒官。
参字叔平，学通《尚书》。
少为黄门郎给事中，宿卫十余年，参为人矜严，好修容仪，进退恂恂，甚可观也。
参，昭仪少弟，行又敕备，以严见惮，终不得亲近侍帷幄。
竟宁中，以王舅出补渭陵食官令。
以数病徙为寝中郎，有诏勿事。
阳朔中，中山王来朝，参擢为上河农都尉。
病免官，复为渭陵寝中郎。
永始中，超迁代郡太守。
以边郡道远，徙为安定太守。
数岁，病免，复为谏大夫，使领护左冯翊都水。
绥和中，立定陶王为皇太子，以中山王见废，故封王舅参为宜乡侯，以慰王意。
参之国，上书愿至中山见王、太后。
行未到而王薨。
王病时，上奏愿贬参爵以关内侯食邑留长安。
上怜之，下诏曰： 中山孝王短命早薨，愿以舅宜乡侯参为关内侯，归家，朕甚愍之。
其还参京师，以列侯奉朝请。
translation: 
At first, King Feng Ye inherited his father's title as Marquis of Guannei and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
A few years later, he died at home of old age.
His son Feng Zuo inherited the title, but his grandson was stripped of his title because of the case of being the Queen Mother of Zhongshan.
Feng Kui's courtesy name is Zichan, and he is familiar with the Book of Changes. Taichang inspected those who were filial and honest and appointed them as Langguan, and supplemented those who were appointed as Ye.
During the Jianzhao period, he was elected as Futu Xiaowei.
Guang Luxun recommended him as a scholar in Yong and appointed him as the magistrate of Meiyang County.
In order of merit, he was promoted to Sima of Changle Palace Guards, Captain of Qinghe County, and Prefect of Longxi County.
His governance was honest and fair, and he died in his forties.
When he was the captain, he had some ideas about regulating the embankment of the Yellow River. For details, see the book "Gou Xi Zhi".
Feng Li, also known as Shengqing, was proficient in the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Because of his father's relationship, he was appointed as Lang Guan, and then promoted to Cao Guan.
During the Jingning period, because he was the uncle of the state, he was appointed as the captain of the vassal state of Wuyuan County.
A few years later, he was promoted to the prefect of Wuyuan County, and then to the prefect of Xihe County and Shang County.
Feng Li was fair and honest as an official, and his political performance was roughly the same as that of King Feng Ye. He was often wise, generous and kind to others, and liked to formulate rules and regulations.
The officials and the people praised Feng Yewang and Feng Li for being the prefects before and after. They praised them by saying: Great Feng Jun and Xiao Feng Jun are brothers who serve as prefects. They are smart and wise and love the officials and the people. Their government is like Lu Weide's Hua Gou, Zhou Gong and Kang Shu are still two monarchs.
Later he was promoted to the prefect of Donghai County. The local terrain was low and humid, and he suffered from rheumatism.
When the emperor heard about the incident, he appointed Feng Li as the governor of Taiyuan.
He served as the governor of five counties successively and made political achievements wherever he went.
He died in office when he was old.
Feng Shen, courtesy name Shuping, was proficient in Shangshu.
When he was young, he served as Huang Menlang and worked as a palace guard for more than ten years. Feng Shen is a solemn and serious person, likes to modify his appearance and etiquette, behaves cautiously and honestly, and is very graceful.
Feng Shen is Zhaoyi's younger brother. He is cautious and prepared. Because he is serious and awe-inspiring, he cannot be the emperor's close minister.
During the Jingning period, he went to court as the uncle of the state and was appointed as the food officer of Weiling.
Because he was often sick, he was assigned to the position of sleeping lieutenant, and there was an edict that allowed him not to do anything.
In the year of Yangshuo, King Zhongshan came to pay homage, and Feng Shen was promoted to the rank of Captain of Shanghe Nong.
He was dismissed from office due to illness and was appointed as the lieutenant in the Weiling Palace.
During the Yongshi period, he was promoted to the prefect of Daijun.
Because the road was far away from the border counties, he was transferred to the prefect of Anding County.
A few years later, he was dismissed from his post due to illness and served as an admonishing doctor and also as a bodyguard Zuo Feng Yi Du Shui.
During the Suihe period, King Tao was made the crown prince. Because King Zhongshan was deposed, his uncle Feng Shen was granted the title of Marquis of Yixiang to appease King Zhongshan.
Feng Shen went to the feudal state and wrote to the emperor that he wanted to see the King of Zhongshan and the Queen Mother of Zhongshan.
King Zhongshan died before he arrived.
When the King of Zhongshan was ill, he wrote in a memorial that he hoped to demote Feng Shen's title and live in Chang'an as the Marquis of Guannei.
The emperor took pity on him and issued an edict: "King Xiao of Zhongshan died prematurely. I would like to ennoble my uncle Feng Shen, Marquis of Yixiang, as the Marquis of Guannei and return home. I pity him very much."
He asked Feng Shen to return to the capital and serve in the court as a prince.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
五侯皆敬惮之。
丞相翟方进亦甚重焉，数谓参： 物禁太甚。
君侯以王舅见废，不得在公卿位，今五侯至尊贵也，与之并列，宜少诎节卑体，视有所宗。
而君侯盛修容貌以威严加之，此非所以下五侯而自益者也。
参性好礼仪，终不改其恒操。
顷之，哀帝即位，帝祖母傅太后用事，追怨参姊中山太后，陷以祝诅大逆之罪，语在《外戚传》。
参以同产当相坐，谒者承制召参诣廷尉，参自杀。
且死，仰天叹曰： 参父子兄弟皆备大位，身至封侯，今被恶名而死，姊弟不敢自惜，伤无以见先人于地下！
死者十七人，众莫不怜之。
宗族徙归故郡。
赞曰：《诗》称 抑抑威仪，惟德之隅。
宜乡侯参鞠躬履方，择地而行，可谓淑人君子，然卒死于非罪，不能自免，哀哉！
谗邪交乱，贞良被害，自古而然。
故伯奇放流，孟子宫刑，申生雉经，屈原赴湘，《小弁》之诗作，《离骚》之辞兴。
经曰： 心之忧矣，涕既陨之。
冯参姊弟，亦云悲矣！
translation: 
The five princes of the Wang family respected and feared him.
Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin also respected him and said to Feng Shen several times: "The taboo on this matter is too much."
Because you are the uncle of the state and have been deposed, you are not allowed to occupy the position of public minister. Now the five princes have the most honorable status. You and they are equal, so you should be a little humble and show respect.
However, you pay great attention to grooming your appearance and treat them with dignity. This is not a way to show that you are lower than the five princes and benefit yourself.
Feng Shen was a man of etiquette by nature and never changed his conduct.
Soon, Emperor Ai came to the throne, and his grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, came to power. She pursued the grudge against Feng Shen's sister, the Empress Dowager Zhongshan, and framed her for the crime of curse and treason. The incident was recorded in "The Biography of the Wife".
Because Feng Shen and she were born from the same mother, they should sit together. The emissary ordered Shao to capture Feng Shen and bring him to the court for interrogation. Feng Shen committed suicide.
When he was about to die, he looked up to the sky and sighed and said: My father, son and brothers, Feng Shen, are all high-ranking officials, marquises and knights. Now I am dying with a bad reputation. My sister and brother dare not feel sorry for themselves. What hurts me is that I have no face to see my ancestors in the ground.
Seventeen people were executed, and everyone felt pity for them.
The Feng family all moved back to their hometown.
Praise said: "The Book of Songs" says that the majesty of the dignified person is truly upright, and the virtue and appearance are integrated inside and outside.
Marquis Feng Shen of Yixiang worked hard, had good conduct, and was cautious in his words and deeds. He could be said to be a gentleman. However, he died innocently in the end and could not escape. It was so sad!
Slander and evil create chaos, and loyal and kind people are persecuted. This has been the case since ancient times.
That's why Boqi was exiled, the eunuch Mencius was tortured, Shen Sheng was hanged and died, and Qu Yuan drowned himself in the Xiang River. That's why poems like "Xiao Bian" and "Li Sao" emerged.
The Book of Songs says: The heart is sad and tears fall down.
The Feng Shen siblings are also miserable!


