Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏其侯窦婴者，孝文后从兄子也。
父世观津人。
喜宾客。
孝文时，婴为吴相，病免。
孝景初即位，为詹事。
梁孝王者，孝景弟也，其母窦太后爱之。
梁孝王朝，因昆弟燕饮。
是时上未立太子，酒酣，从容言曰： 千秋之後传梁王。
太后驩。
窦婴引卮酒进上，曰： 天下者，高祖天下，父子相传，此汉之约也，上何以得擅传梁王！
太后由此憎窦婴。
窦婴亦薄其官，因病免。
太后除窦婴门籍，不得入朝请。
孝景三年，吴楚反，上察宗室诸窦毋如窦婴贤，乃召婴。
婴入见，固辞谢病不足任。
太后亦惭。
於是上曰： 天下方有急，王孙宁可以让邪？
乃拜婴为大将军，赐金千斤。
婴乃言袁盎、栾布诸名将贤士在家者进之。
所赐金，陈之廊庑下，军吏过，辄令财取为用，金无入家者。
窦婴守荥阳，监齐赵兵。七国兵已尽破，封婴为魏其侯。
诸游士宾客争归魏其侯。
孝景时每朝议大事，条侯、魏其侯，诸列侯莫敢与亢礼。
孝景四年，立栗太子，使魏其侯为太子傅。
孝景七年，栗太子废，魏其数争不能得。
魏其谢病，屏居蓝田南山之下数月，诸宾客辩士说之，莫能来。
梁人高遂乃说魏其曰： 能富贵将军者，上也；能亲将军者，太后也。
今将军傅太子，太子废而不能争；争不能得，又弗能死。
自引谢病，拥赵女，屏间处而不朝。
translation: 
Wei Qihou Dou Ying was the son of the cousin of Empress Dou, Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
His father's generation and above have been Guanjin people for generations.
He loves guests.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Dou Ying served as the Prime Minister of Wu State, but was dismissed due to illness.
When Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he took charge of Zhan.
King Xiao of Liang was the younger brother of Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty, and his mother, Queen Mother Dou, loved him very much.
One time when King Xiao of Liang entered the court, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty had a banquet with him as a brother. At this time, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty had not yet established a prince.
When the wine was in full swing, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty said casually: After my death, I will pass the throne to King Liang.
Queen Mother Dou was very happy to hear this.
At this time, Dou Ying offered a glass of wine to the emperor and said: The world was created by Emperor Gaozu, and the throne should be passed down from father to son. This is the system established by the Han Dynasty. Why should the emperor pass it on to King Liang without authorization?
Queen Mother Dou hated Dou Ying for this reason.
Dou Ying also felt that Zhan Shi's official position was too small, so he resigned on the pretext of illness.
Empress Dowager Dou then expelled Dou Ying from entering and exiting the palace, and did not allow him to enter the palace to see him during festivals.
In the third year of Emperor Jing's reign in the Han Dynasty, seven kingdoms including Wu and Chu rebelled. The emperor found that no one in the royal family or anyone with the surname Dou was as capable as Dou Ying, so he summoned Dou Ying.
Dou Ying went to the palace to see him, but refused firmly, saying that he was ill and incompetent.
Empress Dowager Dou also felt ashamed.
So the emperor said: The world is in crisis, how can you refuse?
So he appointed Dou Ying as the general and rewarded him with a thousand catties of gold.
At this time, Yuan Ang, Luan Bu and other famous generals and wise men retired from their posts and stayed at home, so Dou Ying recommended them to the emperor.
The gold rewarded by the emperor was all displayed in the corridor. When the subordinate officers passed by, they were allowed to use it as they saw fit. None of the gold rewarded by the emperor was taken home.
When Dou Ying was stationed in Xingyang, he supervised the troops of Qi and Zhao. After all the rebellions in the seven countries were put down, the emperor granted Dou Ying the title of Marquis of Wei.
At this time, all the tourists and guests rushed to join Wei Qihou.
During the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, every time the court discussed major military and political affairs, all the princes did not dare to sit on an equal footing with Zhou Yafu, the Marquis of Tiao, and Dou Ying, the Marquis of Wei Qi.
In the fourth year of Emperor Jing's reign in the Han Dynasty, he established Prince Li and appointed Wei Qihou as his tutor.
In the seventh year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Prince Li was deposed. Wei Qihou argued for Prince Li many times, but to no avail.
Wei Qihou pretended to be ill and lived in seclusion at the foot of Nanshan Mountain in Lantian County for several months. Many guests and debaters came to persuade him, but no one could persuade him to return to the capital.
Gao Sui, a native of Liang, came to persuade Wei Qihou and said: The one who can make you rich is the emperor, and the one who can make you a confidant of the court is the queen mother.
Now you are the master of the prince. The prince was deposed and could not fight for it. His efforts could not succeed, and he could not die in the line of duty.
He retired due to illness, embraced the beautiful singer, and retired to live in seclusion instead of attending court meetings.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
相提而论，是自明扬主上之过。
有如两宫螫将军，则妻子毋类矣。
魏其侯然之，乃遂起，朝请如故。
桃侯免相，窦太后数言魏其侯。
孝景帝曰： 太后岂以为臣有爱，不相魏其？
魏其者，沾沾自喜耳，多易。难以为相，持重。
遂不用，用建陵侯卫绾为丞相。
武安侯田蚡者，孝景后同母弟也，生长陵。
魏其已为大将军後，方盛，蚡为诸郎，未贵，往来侍酒魏其，跪起如子姓。
及孝景晚节，蚡益贵幸，为太中大夫。
蚡辩有口，学槃盂诸书，王太后贤之。
孝景崩，即日太子立，称制，所镇抚多有田蚡宾客计筴，蚡弟田胜，皆以太后弟，孝景後三年封蚡为武安侯，胜为周阳侯。
武安侯新欲用事为相，卑下宾客，进名士家居者贵之，欲以倾魏其诸将相。
建元元年，丞相绾病免，上议置丞相、太尉。
籍福说武安侯曰： 魏其贵久矣，天下士素归之。
今将军初兴，未如魏其，即上以将军为丞相，必让魏其。
魏其为丞相，将军必为太尉。
太尉、丞相尊等耳，又有让贤名。
武安侯乃微言太后风上，於是乃以魏其侯为丞相，武安侯为太尉。
籍福贺魏其侯，因吊曰： 君侯资性喜善疾恶，方今善人誉君侯，故至丞相；然君侯且疾恶，恶人众，亦且毁君侯。
君侯能兼容，则幸久；不能，今以毁去矣。
魏其不听。
魏其、武安俱好儒术，推毂赵绾为御史大夫，王臧为郎中令。
迎鲁申公，欲设明堂，令列侯就国，除关，以礼为服制，以兴太平。
translation: 
Comparing these situations with each other, this is your own statement that you want to publicize the emperor's fault.
If both the Emperor and the Queen Mother harm you, then your wife and children will all be killed.
Wei Qihou thought he was right, so he went back to the court and met the emperor as before.
When Taohou Liu She was dismissed from the post of prime minister, Empress Dowager Dou recommended Wei Qihou to be prime minister many times.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty said: Does the Queen Mother think that I am stingy in not letting Wei Qihou become prime minister?
Wei Qihou is a proud and complacent person, prone to self-admiration, careless and frivolous in doing things, making it difficult for him to serve as prime minister and assume important responsibilities.
Finally, he was not appointed, and Wei Wan, Marquis of Jianling, was appointed as prime minister.
Tianfen, Marquis of Wu'an, was the half-brother of Emperor Jing and Queen of the Han Dynasty. He was born in Changling.
After Wei Qihou became a general, when he was at the height of his prominence, Tian Fu was still an official, not a distinguished person. He went to and from Wei Qihou's home, attended banquets, knelt down and stood up like Wei Qihou's descendants.
In the later years of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Tian Fu also became prominent, favored and became a Taizhong doctor.
Tian Fu was eloquent and eloquent. He had studied books such as "Pan Yu" and the Queen Mother thought he had talent.
When Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty passed away, the prince ascended the throne and the Queen Mother became regent. Her suppression and appeasement actions throughout the country mostly adopted the strategy of Tian Fu's guests. Tian Fu and his younger brother Tian Sheng were both named Marquis of Wu'an and Marquis of Zhou Yang respectively in the same year that Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty died because they were the younger brothers of the Queen Mother.
Marquis Wu'an had just come to power and wanted to be prime minister, so he was very humble to his guests. He recommended famous people who were idle at home to become officials and make them prominent, hoping to overwhelm the power of generals such as Dou Ying.
In the first year of Jianyuan, Prime Minister Wei Wan was dismissed due to illness, and the emperor was planning to arrange for the prime minister and Taiwei.
Ji Fu persuaded Marquis Wu'an: "Wei Qihou has been a prominent figure for a long time, and the talented people in the world have always attached themselves to him."
Now that you have just made a fortune, you cannot compare with Wei Qihou. Even if the emperor appoints you as prime minister, you must give it to Wei Qihou.
If Wei Qihou becomes prime minister, you will definitely become Taiwei.
The noble status of the Taiwei and the Prime Minister are equal, and you have a good reputation of giving your position to the wise.
Marquis Wu'an then tactfully told the Queen Mother to hint to the emperor, so he appointed Marquis Wei Qi as prime minister and Marquis Wu'an as Taiwei.
Ji Fu went to congratulate Wei Qihou and reminded him: Your nature is to like good people and hate bad people. Today, good people praise you, so you become prime minister. However, you also hate bad people. There are many bad people, and they will slander you.
If you can tolerate both good and bad people, then your position as prime minister can be maintained for a long time; if you cannot, you will be slandered and resigned immediately.
Wei Qihou did not listen to him.
Dou Ying, the Marquis of Wei Qi, and Tian Fu, the Marquis of Wu'an, both loved Confucianism. They recommended Zhao Wan to be the imperial censor, and Wang Zang to be the doctor's order.
Welcoming Shen Pei, a native of Lu, to the capital, he prepared to set up a Mingtang, ordered the princes to return to their own fiefdoms, abolished confinement, and stipulated good and bad clothing and systems according to etiquette and law, so as to show the atmosphere of peace.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
举適诸窦宗室毋节行者，除其属籍。
时诸外家为列侯，列侯多尚公主，皆不欲就国，以故毁日至窦太后。
太后好黄老之言，而魏其、武安、赵绾、王臧等务隆推儒术，贬道家言，是以窦太后滋不说魏其等。
及建元二年，御史大夫赵绾请无奏事东宫。
窦太后大怒，乃罢逐赵绾、王臧等，而免丞相、太尉，以柏至侯许昌为丞相，武彊侯庄青翟为御史大夫。
魏其、武安由此以侯家居。
武安侯虽不任职，以王太后故，亲幸，数言事多效，天下吏士趋势利者，皆去魏其归武安，武安日益横。
建元六年，窦太后崩，丞相昌、御史大夫青翟坐丧事不办，免。
以武安侯蚡为丞相，以大司农韩安国为御史大夫。
天下士郡诸侯愈益附武安。
武安者，貌侵，生贵甚。
又以为诸侯王多长，上初即位，富於春秋，蚡以肺腑为京师相，非痛折节以礼诎之，天下不肃。
当是时，丞相入奏事，坐语移日，所言皆听。荐人或起家至二千石，权移主上。
上乃曰： 君除吏已尽未？
吾亦欲除吏。
尝请考工地益宅，上怒曰： 君何不遂取武库！
是後乃退。
尝召客饮，坐其兄盖侯南乡，自坐东乡，以为汉相尊，不可以兄故私桡。
武安由此滋骄，治宅甲诸第。
田园极膏腴，而市买郡县器物相属於道。
前堂罗锺鼓，立曲旃；後房妇女以百数。
诸侯奉金玉狗马玩好，不可胜数。
translation: 
At the same time, people with bad moral character among the Dou family and royal family members were reported and condemned, and they were expelled from the clan.
At this time, most of the princes among the relatives married princesses and did not want to return to their respective fiefdoms. For this reason, words slandering Wei Qihou and others reached the ears of Queen Mother Dou every day.
Empress Dowager Dou liked Huang Lao's theory, but Wei Qihou, Wu'anhou, Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others tried hard to promote Confucianism and belittle Taoist theory. Therefore, Empress Dowager Dou disliked Wei Qihou and others even more.
In the second year of Jianyuan, the imperial censor Zhao Wan asked the emperor not to report political affairs to the queen mother.
Empress Dowager Dou was furious, so she dismissed and expelled Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others. She also dismissed the prime minister and Taiwei from their posts, appointed Bai Zhihou Xuchang as prime minister, and Wuqianghou Zhuang Qingzhai as the imperial censor.
From then on, Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou stayed at home as marquises.
Although Wu'anhou did not hold an official position, he was still favored by the emperor because of the Queen Mother. He discussed political affairs many times, and most of his suggestions were effective. The officials and scholars in the world who were in favor of others all left Wei Qihou and joined Wuanhou. Marquis Wu'an became more arrogant day by day.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan's reign, Empress Dowager Dou passed away. Prime Minister Xuchang and Yushi doctor Zhuang Qingzhai were dismissed from office because of poor funeral arrangements.
So Wu'an Hou Tianfan was appointed as the prime minister, and Han Anguo, the chief minister, was appointed as the censor.
The scholars in the world, including governors and princes, were even more dependent on Wu'anhou.
Marquis Wu'an was short in stature and unattractive in appearance, but he was very noble right from birth.
He also thought that the princes and kings at that time were all old, and the emperor had just ascended the throne and was very young. He served as the emperor's closest relative and confidant as the prime minister of the court. If he didn't rectify them severely and use etiquette to make them submit, the people of the world would not be obedient.
At that time, when the prime minister came to the court to perform affairs, he would often sit there for most of the day. The emperor would listen to what he said. Some of the people he recommended were promoted from idle residence to two thousand stone levels at once, transferring the emperor's power to his own hands.
The emperor then said: Have you finished appointing the officials you want to appoint?
I also want to appoint a few officials.
He once requested that the land of the Examination and Labor Examination Office be allocated to him to expand his residence. The emperor said angrily: Why don't you take away the weapons depot too!
Since then, I have calmed down a bit.
Once, he invited guests to a banquet and asked his elder brother Gaihou to sit facing south, but he sat facing east. He believed that the prime minister of the Han Dynasty was noble and he should not tolerate himself in private just because he was his elder brother.
From then on, Marquis Wu'an became even more arrogant. He built residences whose scale and luxury surpassed all the noble houses.
The fields and manors were extremely fertile, and there was an endless stream of people he sent to various counties to buy utensils on the road.
There are bells and drums placed in the front hall and long cranked flags erected. There are hundreds of beauties in the back room.
The princes presented him with countless treasures, gold, jade, dogs, horses, and playthings.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
魏其失窦太后，益疏不用，无势，诸客稍稍自引而怠傲，唯灌将军独不失故。
魏其日默默不得志，而独厚遇灌将军。
灌将军夫者，颍阴人也。
夫父张孟，尝为颍阴侯婴舍人，得幸，因进之至二千石，故蒙灌氏姓为灌孟。
吴楚反时，颍阴侯灌何为将军，属太尉，请灌孟为校尉。
夫以千人与父俱。
灌孟年老，颍阴侯彊请之，郁郁不得意，故战常陷坚，遂死吴军中。
军法，父子俱从军，有死事，得与丧归。
灌夫不肯随丧归，奋曰： 原取吴王若将军头，以报父之仇。
於是灌夫被甲持戟，募军中壮士所善原从者数十人。
及出壁门，莫敢前。
独二人及从奴十数骑驰入吴军，至吴将麾下，所杀伤数十人。
不得前，复驰还，走入汉壁，皆亡其奴，独与一骑归。
夫身中大创十馀，適有万金良药，故得无死。
夫创少瘳，又复请将军曰： 吾益知吴壁中曲折，请复往。
将军壮义之，恐亡夫，乃言太尉，太尉乃固止之。
吴已破，灌夫以此名闻天下。
颍阴侯言之上，上以夫为中郎将。
数月，坐法去。
後家居长安，长安中诸公莫弗称之。
孝景时，至代相。
孝景崩，今上初即位，以为淮阳天下交，劲兵处，故徙夫为淮阳太守。
建元元年，入为太仆。
二年，夫与长乐卫尉窦甫饮，轻重不得，夫醉，搏甫。
甫，窦太后昆弟也。
上恐太后诛夫，徙为燕相。
数岁，坐法去官，家居长安。
灌夫为人刚直使酒，不好面谀。
translation: 
Since Wei Qihou lost Empress Dowager Dou, he was further alienated by the emperor and was not reused. He had no power. All the guests gradually left of their own accord, and even became lazy and arrogant towards him. Only General Guan did not change his original attitude.
Wei Qihou was unhappy every day, but he treated General Guan particularly well.
General Guan is from Yingyin.
Guan Fu's father was Zhang Meng, who once served as a retainer of Yingyin Marquis Guan Ying. Because of Guan Ying's favor, he recommended him to an official of two thousand stone level, so he pretended to be named Guan Meng after Guan's family name.
During the rebellion of Wu and Chu, Yingyin Marquis Guan He served as a general and was a subordinate of Taiwei Zhou Yafu. He recommended Guan Meng to the Taiwei as a school captain.
Guan Fu led a thousand men to join the army with his father.
Guan Meng was already old, and Marquis Yingyin reluctantly recommended him. Therefore, Guan Meng was depressed and frustrated. During battles, he often attacked the enemy's strong positions and died in the Wu army.
According to the provisions of the military law at that time, father and son joined the army together and participated in the war. If one died fighting for the country, the surviving son could escort the coffin back.
But Guanfu refused to go back with his father's coffin. He expressed impassionedly that he hoped to behead the King of Wu or the general of Wu to avenge his father.
So Guan Fu put on his armor and held a halberd in his hand, and summoned dozens of warriors in the army who had always been friendly with him and were willing to go with him.
After walking out of the military gate, no one dared to move forward.
Only the two of them and Guan Fu's slaves, a total of more than ten cavalry, rushed into the Wu army until they reached the Wu army's general flag, killing and wounding dozens of enemy soldiers.
Unable to move forward any further, he flew back to the Han camp. All the slaves he brought with him were killed, and he was the only one who returned.
Guan Fu suffered more than ten serious injuries on his body, but he happened to have precious medicine, so he survived.
Guan Fu's wounds improved a little, and he asked the general again: "I now know more about the twists and turns in the Wu army camp. Please let me go back again."
The general thought that Guan Fu was brave and loyal, and he was afraid that Guan Fu would die in the battle, so he reported it to the Taiwei Zhou Yafu, who resolutely stopped him.
When the Wu army was defeated, Guan Fu became famous all over the world.
Marquis Yingyin reported Guan Fu's situation to the emperor, and the emperor appointed Guan Fu as Zhonglang General.
A few months later, he lost his official position because of a violation of the law.
Later he settled in Chang'an, and many dignitaries in Chang'an praised him.
During the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Guan Fuguan became the Prime Minister of the country.
Emperor Jing passed away and Emperor Wu, the current emperor, had just ascended the throne. He believed that Huaiyang was the transportation hub of the world and must be defended by strong troops, so he appointed Guan Fu as the governor of Huaiyang.
In the first year of Jianyuan's reign, he transferred Guan Fu Nei to the rank of imperial servant.
In the second year, Guan Fu was drinking with Changle guard Dou Fu. Guan Fu got drunk and beat Dou Fu.
Dou Fu is the brother of Queen Mother Dou.
The emperor was afraid that Empress Dowager Dou would kill Guan Fu, so he appointed him as the prime minister of Yan State.
A few years later, he was disgraced for breaking the law and lived idle at home in Chang'an.
Guan Fu is a strong and straightforward person, he is prone to drunkenness and does not like to flatter people in person.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
贵戚诸有势在己之右，不欲加礼，必陵之；诸士在己之左，愈贫贱，尤益敬，与钧。
稠人广众，荐宠下辈。
士亦以此多之。
夫不喜文学，好任侠，已然诺。
诸所与交通，无非豪桀大猾。
家累数千万，食客日数十百人。
陂池田园，宗族宾客为权利，横於颍川。
颍川兒乃歌之曰： 颍水清，灌氏宁；颍水浊，灌氏族。
灌夫家居虽富，然失势，卿相侍中宾客益衰。
及魏其侯失势，亦欲倚灌夫引绳批根生平慕之後弃之者。
灌夫亦倚魏其而通列侯宗室为名高。
两人相为引重，其游如父子然。
相得驩甚，无厌，恨相知晚也。
灌夫有服，过丞相。丞相从容曰： 吾欲与仲孺过魏其侯，会仲孺有服。
灌夫曰： 将军乃肯幸临况魏其侯，夫安敢以服为解！
请语魏其侯帐具，将军旦日蚤临。
武安许诺。
灌夫具语魏其侯如所谓武安侯。
魏其与其夫人益市牛酒，夜洒埽，早帐具至旦。
平明，令门下候伺。
至日中，丞相不来。
魏其谓灌夫曰： 丞相岂忘之哉？
灌夫不怿，曰： 夫以服请，宜往。
乃驾，自往迎丞相。
丞相特前戏许灌夫，殊无意往。
及夫至门，丞相尚卧。
於是夫入见，曰： 将军昨日幸许过魏其，魏其夫妻治具，自旦至今，未敢尝食。
武安鄂谢曰： 吾昨日醉，忽忘与仲孺言。
乃驾往，又徐行，灌夫愈益怒。
及饮酒酣，夫起舞属丞相，丞相不起，夫从坐上语侵之。
魏其乃扶灌夫去，谢丞相。
丞相卒饮至夜，极驩而去。
translation: 
For the emperor's relatives and powerful people, who were above him, he not only did not want to show respect to them, but also tried to find ways to insult them; for many scholars who were below him, the poorer he was, the more respectful he was and treated them as equals.
In public, it is recommended to praise those who are lower than yourself.
Scholars also respected him for this.
Guan Fu doesn't like articles and classics, and he likes to fight against injustice. He has already promised others things and will definitely fulfill them.
All the people he interacted with were either outstanding people or cunning people.
The assets accumulated in his family are tens of millions, and the number of diners every day ranges from dozens to nearly a hundred.
In order to build embankments and ponds in the countryside and irrigate farmland, his clan and guests expanded their power, monopolized interests, and became tyrannical in the Yingchuan area.
The children of Yingchuan then sang: If the Yingshui is clear, the Guan family will be at peace; if the Yingshui is turbid, the Guan family will be exterminated.
Although Guan Fu lived at home and was wealthy, he lost his power, and the number of dignitaries and ordinary guests gradually decreased.
When Wei Qihou lost power, he also wanted to follow Guan Fu to take revenge on those who usually admired him but abandoned him after losing power.
Guan Fu also wanted to follow Wei Qihou to make friends with other princes and the royal family to improve his reputation.
The two quoted each other and their relationship was as close as that between father and son.
They are in love with each other and have no objections. They just regret that it was too late for them to know each other.
Guanfu went to visit the Prime Minister during the period of mourning. The Prime Minister said casually: "I want to go with you to visit Wei Qihou. It just happens that you are in mourning and it is inconvenient to go."
Guanfu said: "You are actually willing to come to Wei Qihou. How dare I, Guanfu, refuse because of mourning?"
Please allow me to tell Wei Qihou to set up the curtains and prepare a banquet. You can come early tomorrow.
Marquis Wu'an agreed.
Guan Fu told Wei Qihou in detail, just like he told Wu'an Hou.
Wei Qihou and his wife specially bought more meat and wine, cleaned the house all night, arranged the curtains, and prepared the banquet. They were busy until dawn.
As soon as it dawned, the people in charge of the mansion were asked to wait in front of the house.
By noon, the prime minister had not arrived.
Wei Qihou said to Guan Fu: Has the Prime Minister forgotten this?
Guanfu was very unhappy and said, "I, Guanfu, don't mind being in mourning, so I agreed to his appointment and he should come."
So he drove and went to meet the prime minister in person.
The Prime Minister only agreed to Guan Fu as a joke the day before, and really had no intention of coming to the banquet.
When Guan Fu came to the door, the prime minister was still sleeping.
So Guan Fu went in to see him and said, "General, I was fortunate enough to pay a visit to Wei Qihou yesterday. Wei Qihou and his wife prepared wine and food, but they have not dared to eat anything from morning until now."
Marquis Wu'an pretended to be surprised and apologized, saying: I was drunk yesterday and forgot what I said to you.
So he drove there, but he went very slowly, which made Guan Fu even more angry.
When he got drunk, Guanfu danced a bit. After the dance, he invited the prime minister, but the prime minister didn't get up. Guanfu made fun of him during the banquet.
Wei Qihou helped Guan Fu leave and expressed his apology to the prime minister.
The prime minister drank until dark and had a great time before leaving.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
丞相尝使籍福请魏其城南田。
魏其大望曰： 老仆虽弃，将军虽贵，宁可以势夺乎！
不许。
灌夫闻，怒，骂籍福。
籍福恶两人有郄，乃谩自好谢丞相曰： 魏其老且死，易忍，且待之。
已而武安闻魏其、灌夫实怒不予田，亦怒曰： 魏其子尝杀人，蚡活之。
蚡事魏其无所不可，何爱数顷田？
且灌夫何与也？
吾不敢复求田。
武安由此大怨灌夫、魏其。
元光四年春，丞相言灌夫家在颍川，横甚，民苦之。
请案。
上曰： 此丞相事，何请。
灌夫亦持丞相阴事，为奸利，受淮南王金与语言。
宾客居间，遂止，俱解。
夏，丞相取燕王女为夫人，有太后诏，召列侯宗室皆往贺。
魏其侯过灌夫，欲与俱。
夫谢曰： 夫数以酒失得过丞相，丞相今者又与夫有郄。
魏其曰： 事已解。
彊与俱。
饮酒酣，武安起为寿，坐皆避席伏。
已魏其侯为寿，独故人避席耳，馀半膝席。
灌夫不悦。
起行酒，至武安，武安膝席曰： 不能满觞。
夫怒，因嘻笑曰： 将军贵人也，属之！
时武安不肯。
行酒次至临汝侯，临汝侯方与程不识耳语，又不避席。
夫无所发怒，乃骂临汝侯曰： 生平毁程不识不直一钱，今日长者为寿，乃效女兒呫嗫耳语！
武安谓灌夫曰： 程李俱东西宫卫尉，今众辱程将军，仲孺独不为李将军地乎？
灌夫曰： 今日斩头陷匈，何知程李乎！
坐乃起更衣，稍稍去。
魏其侯去，麾灌夫出。
translation: 
The prime minister once sent Ji Fu to claim Wei Qihou's fields in the south of the city.
Wei Qihou said with great resentment: Although I have been abandoned and the general is noble, how can he take my land by force?
No.
When Guanfu heard about it, he was also angry and cursed Jifu.
Ji Fu didn't want there to be any estrangement between the two, so he made up some good words to apologize to the prime minister and said: "Wei Qihou is old and is about to die. Can't you bear it anymore? Just wait for now!"
Soon, Wu'anhou heard that Wei Qihou and Guanfu were actually angry and refused to give up the land. He also said angrily: Wei Qihou's son once killed someone, and I saved his life.
When I serve Wei Qihou, I always obey him. Why is he reluctant to part with these few hectares of fields?
Besides, why did Guan Fu intervene?
I don't dare to ask for this field anymore!
From then on, Marquis Wu'an resented Guan Fu and Wei Qihou.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuanguang, the Prime Minister told the emperor that Guan Fu's family lived in Yingchuan and were very rampant, and the people suffered from it.
Ask the emperor to investigate.
The emperor said: This is the prime minister's duty, why bother asking for instructions.
Guan Fu also caught the Prime Minister's secrets, used illegal means to seek benefits, accepted money from King Huainan and said some things that he shouldn't have said.
The guests mediate. Only then did the two sides stop attacking each other and reconcile with each other.
That summer, the prime minister married the daughter of King Yan as his wife. The queen mother issued an edict, calling all the princes and royal family to congratulate her.
Wei Qihou visited Guan Fu and planned to go with him.
Guan Fu declined and said, "I have offended the Prime Minister many times because of my drunkenness and impoliteness. Recently, the Prime Minister has had a problem with me."
Wei Qihou said: The matter has been reconciled.
Drag him along.
When the wine was almost drunk, Marquis Wu An stood up to toast his birthday. All the guests left their seats and fell on the ground, expressing their disapproval.
After a while, Wei Qihou stood up and toasted everyone's birthday. Only those Wei Qihou's old friends left their seats, and the other half of the people sat there as usual, only slightly bowed.
Guanfu was not happy.
He stood up and toasted in turn. When the toast came to Wu'an Hou, Wu'an Hou sat there as usual, only bowed his upper body a little and said: "You can't drink a full cup."
Guan Fu got angry, so he smiled bitterly and said: "You are a noble man, I will entrust this cup to you!"
At that time, Marquis Wu'an refused to agree.
The toast came to Linruhou, who was whispering to Cheng Bushi without leaving his seat.
Guanfu had no place to vent his anger, so he scolded Marquis Linru and said: "Normally slandering Cheng Bushi is worthless. Today, the elders are toasting you for your birthday, but you are just like a girl, talking to Cheng Bushi."
Marquis Wu'an said to Guan Fu: General Cheng and General Li are both guards of the East and West. Now that General Cheng is being insulted in public, doesn't Zhong Ru leave some room for General Li, whom you respect?
Guan Fu said, "I don't care if I kill my head or pierce my chest today. Why do I care about General Cheng and General Li!"
The guests got up to go to the toilet and gradually left.
Wei Qihou also left, waving his hand for Guan Fu to go out.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
武安遂怒曰： 此吾骄灌夫罪。
乃令骑留灌夫。
灌夫欲出不得。
籍福起为谢，案灌夫项令谢。
夫愈怒，不肯谢。
武安乃麾骑缚夫置传舍，召长史曰： 今日召宗室，有诏。
劾灌夫骂坐不敬，系居室。
遂按其前事，遣吏分曹逐捕诸灌氏支属，皆得弃市罪。
魏其侯大媿，为资使宾客请，莫能解。
武安吏皆为耳目，诸灌氏皆亡匿，夫系，遂不得告言武安阴事。
魏其锐身为救灌夫。
夫人谏魏其曰： 灌将军得罪丞相，与太后家忤，宁可救邪？
魏其侯曰： 侯自我得之，自我捐之，无所恨。
且终不令灌仲孺独死，婴独生。
乃匿其家，窃出上书。
立召入，具言灌夫醉饱事，不足诛。
上然之，赐魏其食，曰： 东朝廷辩之。
魏其之东朝，盛推灌夫之善，言其醉饱得过，乃丞相以他事诬罪之。
武安又盛毁灌夫所为横恣，罪逆不道。
魏其度不可柰何，因言丞相短。
武安曰： 天下幸而安乐无事，蚡得为肺腑，所好音乐狗马田宅。
蚡所爱倡优巧匠之属，不如魏其、灌夫日夜招聚天下豪桀壮士与论议，腹诽而心谤，不仰视天而俯画地，辟倪两宫间，幸天下有变，而欲有大功。
臣乃不知魏其等所为。
於是上问朝臣： 两人孰是？
御史大夫韩安国曰： 魏其言灌夫父死事，身荷戟驰入不测之吴军，身被数十创，名冠三军，此天下壮士，非有大恶，争杯酒，不足引他过以诛也。
魏其言是也。
丞相亦言灌夫通奸猾，侵细民，家累巨万，横恣颍川，凌轹宗室，侵犯骨肉，此所谓 枝大於本，胫大於股，不折必披 ，丞相言亦是。
唯明主裁之。
主爵都尉汲黯是魏其。
内史郑当时是魏其，後不敢坚对。
馀皆莫敢对。
上怒内史曰： 公平生数言魏其、武安长短，今日廷论，局趣效辕下驹，吾并斩若属矣。
translation: 
Marquis Wu'an then got angry and said: "This is my fault for pampering Guan Fu."
He ordered the knight to detain Guan Fu.
Guanfu wanted to go out but couldn't.
Ji Fu stood up and apologized for Guan Fu, and pressed Guan Fu's neck to ask him to apologize.
Guan Fu became even more angry and refused to apologize.
Marquis Wu'an then ordered the knights to tie up Guan Fu and put him in the guest room. He called Chang Shi and said, "Today we invite guests from the clan to the banquet. This is because of the Queen Mother's order."
Guan Fu was impeached, saying that he insulted the guests at the banquet, insulted the edict, and committed the crime of "disrespect". He was imprisoned in a special prison.
So he traced his past affairs and dispatched officers to hunt down all the relatives of the Guan family. They were all sentenced to beheading in public.
Wei Qihou felt very ashamed. Even paying guests to plead with Tian Fu could not free Guan Fu.
All the officials of Marquis Wu'an were his eyes and ears, and all the people of the Guan family fled and hid. Guanfu was imprisoned, so he could not tell the secrets of Marquis Wu'an.
Wei Qihou stepped forward to rescue Guan Fu.
His wife advised him: General Guan has offended the Prime Minister and opposed the Queen Mother's family. How can he be rescued?
Wei Qihou said: I earned the title of Marquis, and now I throw it away. There is nothing to regret.
Besides, I can't let Guan Zhongru die on his own while I live alone.
So he went out privately to write to the emperor without telling his family.
The emperor immediately called him into the palace, and Wei Qihou explained in detail the situation in which Guan Fu had lost his speech because he was drunk, and considered it not enough to sentence him to death.
The emperor thought he was right and rewarded Wei Qihou for dining with him, saying: "Go to the East Palace to openly debate this matter."
Wei Qihou went to the East Palace and praised Guan Fu's merits, saying that he was guilty of drunkenness, but the prime minister used other crimes to frame Guan Fu.
Marquis Wu'an then tried his best to slander Guan Fu's arrogance and indulgence, and committed the crime of treason.
Wei Qihou thought that there was no other way to deal with it, so he attacked the prime minister's shortcomings.
Marquis Wu'an said: Fortunately, the world is peaceful and peaceful, so I can be the emperor's confidant. I like music, dogs, horses, and fields.
What I like are just people like karaoke artists and skilled craftsmen. They are not like Wei Qihou and Guan Fu, who gathered the heroes of the world to discuss and discuss day and night. They secretly slandered and harbored deep dissatisfaction with the imperial court. They spoke without scruples and were arrogant. They peered between the east and west palaces, hoping for changes in the world so that they could achieve success.
I don't understand what Wei Qihou and the others are going to do?
So the emperor asked the ministers at court: Which of the two of them is right?
Han Anguo, the imperial censor, said: Wei Qihou said that Guan Fu's father died for the country. Guan Fu rushed into the powerful Wu army with a sword and halberd. He suffered dozens of wounds and had the highest reputation in the army. He was a warrior in the world. If there was no particularly serious crime, it was just a quarrel because of drinking. It is not worthy of citing other crimes to sentence him to death.
What Wei Qihou said is right.
The Prime Minister also said that Guan Fu made friends with powerful cunning people, oppressed the common people, accumulated tens of millions of wealth, ran rampant in Yingchuan, insulted and invaded the royal family. This is what is called "the branches are bigger than the trunk, and the calves are thicker than the thighs". The consequences will either be broken or split. What the Prime Minister said is not bad either.
Let the wise Lord decide this matter himself.
The Lord Commander Ji An thought that Wei Qihou was right.
Internal historian Zheng also believed that Wei Qihou was right at the time, but later he did not dare to insist on his opinion and answer the emperor.
The rest of them didn't dare to answer.
The emperor angrily rebuked the internal historian and said: "You have talked about the strengths and weaknesses of Wei Qihou and Wu'an Marquis many times on weekdays. Today in the court debate, you are as timid as a colt under the shaft of a chariot. I will kill you all together."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
即罢起入，上食太后。
太后亦已使人候伺，具以告太后。
太后怒，不食，曰： 今我在也，而人皆藉吾弟，令我百岁後，皆鱼肉之矣。
且帝宁能为石人邪！
此特帝在，即录录，设百岁後，是属宁有可信者乎？
上谢曰： 俱宗室外家，故廷辩之。
不然，此一狱吏所决耳。
是时郎中令石建为上别言两人事。
武安已罢朝，出止车门，召韩御史大夫载，怒曰： 与长孺共一老秃翁，何为首鼠两端？
韩御史良久谓丞相曰： 君何不自喜？
夫魏其毁君，君当免冠解印绶归，曰 臣以肺腑幸得待罪，固非其任，魏其言皆是 。
如此，上必多君有让，不废君。
魏其必内愧，杜门齰舌自杀。
今人毁君，君亦毁人，譬如贾竖女子争言，何其无大体也！
武安谢罪曰： 争时急，不知出此。
於是上使御史簿责魏其所言灌夫，颇不雠，欺谩。
劾系都司空。
孝景时，魏其常受遗诏，曰 事有不便，以便宜论上 。
及系，灌夫罪至族，事日急，诸公莫敢复明言於上。
魏其乃使昆弟子上书言之，幸得复召见。
书奏上，而案尚书大行无遗诏。
诏书独藏魏其家，家丞封。
乃劾魏其矫先帝诏，罪当弃市。
五年十月，悉论灌夫及家属。
魏其良久乃闻，闻即恚，病痱，不食欲死。
或闻上无意杀魏其，魏其复食，治病，议定不死矣。
乃有蜚语为恶言闻上，故以十二月晦论弃市渭城。
translation: 
He immediately got up and left the court, and entered the palace to serve the Queen Mother for dinner.
The Queen Mother has also sent people to the court to inquire about the news. They reported the situation of the court debate to the Queen Mother in detail.
The Queen Mother got angry and stopped eating, saying: Now that I am still alive, others dare to molest my brother. If I die, they will slaughter him like a fish.
Besides, how can the emperor be like a stone man and not make his own opinions!
Fortunately, the emperor is still here, and these ministers are following suit. If the emperor dies, can these people still be trusted?
The emperor apologized and said: They are all aunts of the royal family, so they are debating their affairs in the court.
Otherwise, only one jailer can solve it.
At this time, the doctor ordered Shi Jian to report to the emperor the affairs of Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou respectively.
Marquis Wu'an had already retired from the court, walked out of the parking lot, and called out to Dr. Han Yushi to ride in the same car. He said angrily: You and I are dealing with an old bald man together, why are you still ambiguous and hesitant?
After a while, Dr. Han Yushi said to the prime minister: "Why don't you love and respect yourself?"
If Marquis Wei Qi slanders you, you should take off your official hat, take off your seal and ribbon, return it to the emperor, and say: As the emperor's confidant, I was lucky enough to get this position. I was originally incompetent. What Wei Qihou said is correct.
Like this, the emperor will definitely praise you for your virtue of humility and will not dismiss you.
Wei Qihou must have felt ashamed and committed suicide behind closed doors.
Now when others are slandering you, you are also slandering others. You are scolding each other like a businessman and a woman quarreling. How ignorant you are!
Marquis Wu An admitted his mistake and said: I was too impatient during the argument and did not think that I should do this.
So the emperor sent his censor to investigate Guan Fu's crimes according to the records. There were many inconsistencies with what Wei Qihou said, and he committed the crime of deceiving the emperor.
He was impeached and imprisoned in a special prison called Dusikong.
During the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Wei Qihou received his edict before his death, which read: If something inconvenient happens to you, you can adapt to the situation and report your opinions to the emperor.
When he was imprisoned and Guan Fu was convicted of genocide, the situation became more and more urgent day by day. No one among the ministers dared to explain the matter to the emperor.
Wei Qihou asked his nephew to write a letter to the emperor to report the acceptance of the imperial edict, hoping to be summoned by the emperor again.
The memorial was submitted to the emperor, but after checking the files kept by the minister, there was no final edict from Emperor Jing.
This edict was only sealed and hidden in Wei Qihou's home, and was sealed by Wei Qihou's retainers.
Therefore, Wei Qihou was impeached for forging the imperial edict of the late emperor and should be sentenced to beheading in public.
In October of the fifth year of Yuanguang, Guan Fu and his family were all executed.
It took a long time for Wei Qihou to hear the news. After hearing this, he was extremely angry and suffered from a stroke. He stopped eating and planned to die.
Someone heard that the emperor had no intention of killing Wei Qihou. Wei Qihou began to eat again, began to treat diseases, and discussed and decided not to impose the death penalty.
There were rumors and many slanderous words about Wei Qihou were heard by the emperor, so on the last day of December of that year, Wei Qihou was beheaded on the streets of Weicheng.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
其春，武安侯病，专呼服谢罪。
使巫视鬼者视之，见魏其、灌夫共守，欲杀之。
竟死。
子恬嗣。
元朔三年，武安侯坐衣襜褕入宫，不敬。
淮南王安谋反觉，治。
王前朝，武安侯为太尉，时迎王至霸上，谓王曰： 上未有太子，大王最贤，高祖孙，即宫车晏驾，非大王立当谁哉！
淮南王大喜，厚遗金财物。
上自魏其时不直武安，特为太后故耳。
及闻淮南王金事，上曰： 使武安侯在者，族矣。
太史公曰：魏其、武安皆以外戚重，灌夫用一时决筴而名显。
魏其之举以吴楚，武安之贵在日月之际。
然魏其诚不知时变，灌夫无术而不逊，两人相翼，乃成祸乱。
武安负贵而好权，杯酒责望，陷彼两贤。
呜呼哀哉！
迁怒及人，命亦不延。
众庶不载，竟被恶言。
呜呼哀哉！祸所从来矣！
translation: 
In the spring of this year, Marquis Wu'an fell ill and kept shouting, saying things like apology.
He asked a wizard who could see ghosts to diagnose his illness. The wizard saw the ghosts of Wei Qihou and Guan Fu guarding Wu'anhou and wanted to kill him.
Finally died.
His son Tian Tian inherited the title.
In the third year of Yuan Shuo, Hou Tiantian of Wu'an committed the crime of "disrespect" because he entered the palace wearing short clothes, and his title was revoked.
The rebellion of Huainan King Liu An was discovered, and the emperor ordered the matter to be investigated.
The last time King Huainan came to court, Marquis Wu'an was appointed as Taiwei. At that time, he came to Ba Shang to greet King Huainan and said: The emperor has no prince, and the king is the wisest and the grandson of the great ancestor. Once the emperor dies, who else should inherit the throne instead of the king?
The King of Huainan was very happy and gave Marquis Wu'an many gold and silver items.
Ever since the incident involving Marquis Wei Qi happened, the Emperor did not think that Marquis Wu An was right, and it was just because of the Queen Mother's hindrance.
When he heard that King Huainan sent gold and silver to Marquis Wu'an, the emperor said: If Marquis Wu'an is still alive, it's time to exterminate the clan.
Tai Shigong said: Wei Qihou and Wu'anhou were both in prominent positions due to their relatives. Guan Fu became famous at that time because he made up his mind to take risks and perform meritorious deeds.
Wei Qihou was re-employed because he put down the rebellions of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu; Wu'an Hou was promoted because he took advantage of the opportunity that the emperor had just ascended the throne and the Queen Mother came to power.
However, Wei Qihou really didn't understand the changes in the situation, and Guan Fu was neither knowledgeable nor humble. The two protected each other, which caused this disaster.
Marquis Wu'an relied on his noble status and liked to play with power; because of his resentment over a glass of wine, he framed two wise men.
How sad!
Tian Fu transferred his anger towards Guan Fu to Dou Ying, and his own life was short-lived.
Guan Fu was not supported by the people and eventually lost a bad reputation. How sad!
From this we can see the source of Guanfu’s disaster!


