Chunk 0: 
original: 
王祥郑冲何曾
石苞
王祥，字休徵，琅邪临沂人，汉谏议大夫吉之后也。
祖仁，青州刺史。
父融，公府辟不就。
祥性至孝。
早丧亲，继母硃氏不慈，数谮之，由是失爱于父。
每使扫除牛下，祥愈恭谨。
父母有疾，衣不解带，汤药必亲尝。
母常欲生鱼，时天寒冰冻，祥解衣将剖冰求之，冰忽自解，双鲤跃出，持之而归。
母又思黄雀灸，复有黄雀数十飞入其幕，复以供母。
乡里惊叹，以为孝感所致焉。
有丹柰结实，母命守之，每风雨，祥辄抱树而泣。
其笃孝纯至如此。
汉未遭乱，扶母携弟览避地庐江，隐居三十余年，不应州郡之命。
母终，居丧毁瘁，杖而后起。
translation: 
Where did Wang Xiang and Zheng Chong ever
Lithos
Wang Xiang, whose courtesy name was Xiuzheng, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was a descendant of Wang Ji, an admonishing official of the Han Dynasty.
His grandfather, Wang Ren, was the governor of Qingzhou.
His father, Wang Rong, was recruited by the government, but he refused to become an official.
Wang Xiang is very filial by nature.
His mother died when he was young, and his stepmother Zhu was not loving and spoke ill of him many times, thus losing his father's love.
Wang Xiang is often asked to clean the cattle pen, and Wang Xiang is more respectful and cautious.
When his parents were ill, he couldn't take off his clothes, so he had to taste the medicine himself first.
His stepmother once wanted to eat live fish. It was freezing cold at that time. Wang Xiang took off his clothes and was about to break the ice to catch fish. The ice suddenly cracked on its own and two carps jumped out. He took the fish home.
Stepmother wants to eat roasted oriole again. Dozens more orioles flew into his tent and took them to his stepmother.
The villagers were amazed and thought it was caused by the influence of filial piety.
There was a red sand fruit tree bearing fruit, and his stepmother ordered him to guard it. Whenever there was wind or rain, Wang Xiang would hug the tree and cry.
His filial piety reaches such an extent.
During the war at the end of the Han Dynasty, he supported his mother and took his younger brother Wang Lan to escape to Lujiang. They lived in seclusion for more than 20 years and refused to accept appointments from prefectures and counties.
When her mother passed away, she became ill due to grief and could only stand with a cane.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
徐州刺史吕虔檄为别驾，祥年垂耳顺，固辞不受。
览劝之，为具车牛，祥乃应召，虔委以州事。
于时寇盗充斥，祥率励兵士，频讨破之。
州界清静，政化大行。
时人歌之曰： 海沂之康，实赖王祥。
邦国不空，别驾之功。
举秀才，除温令，累迁大司农。
高贵乡公即位，与定策功，封关内侯，拜光禄勋，转司隶校尉。
从讨毌丘俭，增邑四百户，迁太常，封万岁亭侯。
天子幸太学，命祥为三老。
祥南面几杖，以师道自居。
天子北面乞言，祥陈明王圣帝君臣政化之要以训之，闻者莫不砥砺。
及高贵乡公之弑也，朝臣举哀，祥号哭曰 老臣无状 ，涕泪交流，众有愧色。
顷之，拜司空，转太尉，加侍中。
五等建，封睢陵侯，邑一千六百户。
translation: 
Lu Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, asked him to be his guest. Wang Xiang, who was nearly sixty years old, resolutely refused to accept the offer.
Wang Lan persuaded him and prepared an ox cart for him. Only then did Wang Xiang answer the call, and Lu Qian handed over the affairs of the state to him.
At that time, there were robbers and thieves everywhere. Wang Xiang led and encouraged the soldiers to defeat the enemy many times.
The state is peaceful and peaceful, and political decrees and enlightenment are passed unimpeded.
People at that time sang: Haiyi's happiness really depends on Wang Xiang.
The fact that the feudal country is not poor is due to others.
Wang Xiang was recommended as a scholar, appointed as Wen Ling, and promoted to Da Sinong many times.
Gaogui Xianggong ascended the throne, participated in the planning and made meritorious services, and was named Guannei Marquis. His official title was Guang Luxun, and he was transferred to Sili Xiaowei.
Following his attack on his mother Qiu Jian, he increased his residence by 400 households, was promoted to Taichang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wansui Ting.
The emperor came to the Imperial Academy and ordered Wang Xiang to be the third elder.
Wang Xiang faces south, leaning on several tables and holding a walking stick, and considers himself a teacher.
The emperor asked for advice from the north, and Wang Xiang taught him the key points of political education for emperors and ministers of the Ming Dynasty. Everyone who heard this was inspired.
When the noble countryman was killed, the ministers of the court held a mourning ceremony. Wang Xiang cried and said, "The old minister has no face to see others." His nose burst into tears and everyone looked ashamed.
Soon after, he was promoted to Sikong, and was transferred to Taiwei, and then to Shizhong.
He was awarded the fifth-class title and was named Suiling Marquis, with a settlement of 1,600 households.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
及武帝为晋王，祥与荀顗往谒，顗谓祥曰： 相王尊重，何侯既已尽敬，今便当拜也。
祥曰： 相国诚为尊贵，然是魏之宰相。
吾等魏之三公，公王相去，一阶而已，班例大同，安有天子三司而辄拜人者！
损魏朝之望，亏晋王之德，君子爱人以礼，吾不为也。
及入，顗遂拜，而祥独长揖。
帝曰： 今日方知君见顾之重矣！
武帝践阼，拜太保，进爵为公，加置七官之职。
帝新爱命，虚己以求谠言。
祥与何曾、郑冲等耆艾笃老，希复朝见，帝遣侍中任恺谘问得失，及政化所先。
祥以年老疲耄，累乞逊位，帝不许。
御史中丞侯史光以祥久疾，阙朝会礼，请免祥官。
诏曰： 太保元老高行，朕所毗倚以隆政道者也。
前后逊让，不从所执，此非有司所得议也。
遂寝光奏。
祥固乞骸骨，诏听以睢陵公就第，位同保傅，在三司之右，禄赐如前。
诏曰： 古之致仕，不事王侯。
今虽以国公留居京邑，不宜复苦以朝请。
translation: 
When Emperor Wen became the king of Jin, Wang Xiang and Xun Pin went to see him. Xunjie said to Wang Xiang: "The Prime Minister respects his position. He Hou has already respected him, so he should kneel down and worship him now."
Wang Xiang said: The prime minister is indeed noble, but he is the prime minister of Wei.
We are the three princes of the Wei State. The difference between the prince and the king is only one level, and the ranks are the same. How can the three princes of the emperor be bowed to others easily?
It damages the prestige of the Wei Dynasty and the reputation of the King of Jin. A gentleman treats others with courtesy, so I will not bow down.
After entering, Xunjie knelt down and worshiped, while Wang Xiang performed a long salute alone.
Emperor Wen said: Today I know the reason why you are appreciated!
When Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he granted Wang Xiang the title of Taibao, promoted him to the title of Duke, and granted him the powers of seven additional officials.
Not long after Emperor Wu came to the throne, he humbly sought out honest opinions.
Wang Xiang, He Zeng, Zheng Chong and other senior ministers wished to see him again, so the emperor sent Ren Kai, an aide-de-camp, to inquire about the gains and losses and the primary measures for political enlightenment.
Wang Xiang requested to retire many times on the grounds of old age and frailty, but the emperor refused.
The censor, Zhongcheng Hou Shiguang, requested that Wang Xiang be removed from his official position on the grounds that Wang Xiang had been ill for a long time and could not attend court.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The Taibao is an experienced official with high qualifications and high virtues, and I rely on him to govern.
I have not complied with his wishes despite humility and concessions many times before and after. This is not something that officials can discuss.
So the memorial of Bao Huangguang was withheld.
Xingmang firmly requested to resign and issued an edict to allow Duke Suiling to return to his residence. His official position was the same as that of Baofu. He was above the three divisions and his salary was the same as before.
The edict said: People in ancient times retired and no longer served princes.
Now, although he is staying in the capital as the Duke of the country, he should not be made to suffer any more hardships due to court invitations.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其赐几杖，不朝，大事皆谘访之。
赐安车驷马，第一区，钱百万，绢五百匹，床帐簟褥，以舍人六人为睢陵公舍人，置官骑二十人。
以公子骑都尉肇为给事中，使常优游定省。
又以太保高洁清素，家无宅宇，其权留本府，须所赐第成乃出。
及疾笃，著遗令训子孙曰： 夫生之有死，自然之理。
吾年八十有五，启手何恨。
不有遗言，使尔无述。
吾生值季末，登庸历试，无毗佐之勋，没无以报。
气绝但洗手足，不须沐浴，勿缠尸，皆浣故衣，随时所服。
所赐山玄玉佩、卫氏玉玦、绶笥皆勿以敛。
西芒上土自坚贞，勿用甓石，勿起坟陇。
穿深二丈，椁取容棺。
勿作前堂、布几筵、置书箱镜奁之具，棺前但可施床榻而已。
糒脯各一盘，玄酒一杯，为朝夕奠。
家人大小不须送丧，大小祥乃设特牲。
无违余命！
translation: 
Give him a cane for several cases, so you don't have to go to court. Ask him for advice on important matters.
He was given a chariot and four horses, a house, one million dollars, five hundred pieces of silk, beds and mats, six housekeepers named Suiling Gong's housekeepers, and twenty officers and cavalrymen.
Wang Zhao, Wang Xiang's son, the Cavalry Commander, was appointed to serve as a minister, so that he would always have time to pay respects to Wang Xiang.
Because Taibao was of high moral character and did not have a house at home, he temporarily stayed in the house until the house given to him was completed before moving out.
When he was critically ill, he wrote a will to instruct his descendants: "Within life comes death. This is a natural principle."
I am eighty-five years old, what regrets do I have when I die?
Failure to leave any last words will leave you with nothing to follow.
I was born in the last days and was selected for important positions. I had no meritorious service and could not repay it after I died.
After dying, you only need to wash your hands and feet. You don’t need to take a bath. You don’t need to wrap your body around your body. You only need to wear old clothes you find in the wash and wear them according to the season.
Do not put the Shanxuan jade pendant, Wei jade piece, and ribbon that were given to me into a coffin.
The soil on Ximang is inherently solid and clean, so there is no need for bricks, stones or grave mounds.
The pit should be dug two feet deep and the coffin should be large enough to hold the coffin.
It is not necessary to build a front hall, set up a sacrificial feast, set up bookcases, mirrors, etc. Just set up a bed in front of the coffin.
A plate of dry food and dried meat, and a cup of black wine, as a morning and evening memorial.
Family members do not need to be buried, only special sacrifices are held on the anniversary and second anniversary.
Don't disobey my orders!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
高柴泣血三年，夫子谓之愚。
闵子除丧出见。援琴切切而哀，仲尼谓之孝。
故哭泣之哀，日月降杀，饮食之宜，自有制度。
夫言行可覆，信之至也；推美引过，德之至也；扬名显亲，孝之至也；兄弟怡怡，宗族欣欣，悌之至也；临财莫过乎让：此五者，立身之本。
颜子所以为命，未之思也，夫何远之有！
其子皆奉而行之。
泰始五年薨，诏赐东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，钱三十万，布帛百匹。
时文明皇太后崩始逾月，其后诏曰： 为睢陵公发哀，事乃至今。
虽每为之感伤，要未得特叙哀情。
今便哭之。
明年，策谥曰元。
祥之薨，奔赴者非朝廷之贤，则亲亲故吏而已，门无杂吊之宾。
族孙戎叹曰： 太保可谓清达矣！
又称： 祥在正始，不在能言之流。
及与之言，理致清远，将非以德掩其言乎！
translation: 
Gao Chai cried for three years, and Confucius said he was stupid.
Minzi took off his mourning clothes and came out to meet people. He played the harp sadly, and Confucius said he was filial.
Therefore, the expression of sorrow by crying decreases with the passage of time, and the sacrifice of food and drink has its own system.
Being consistent in words and deeds is the pinnacle of faith; giving a good reputation to others while shouldering the blame yourself is the pinnacle of virtue; spreading a good reputation to make relatives famous is the pinnacle of filial piety; brotherly harmony and clan rejoicing are the pinnacle of brotherhood; there is nothing better than humility in the face of property: these five principles are the foundation of a good life.
The remarks made by Yan Zi were not thought through and are not far from these five points.
The sons were ordered to do so.
When Taishi died in the fourth year, an edict was issued to give the nobles a coffin, a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand money, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
It had just been a month since the death of Empress Dowager Wenming. After this, Xia Shaoshu said: I express my condolences to Duke Sui, and the matter has been postponed until today.
Although I often feel sad for him, I never express my sorrow specifically.
Cry him today.
In the second year, he was granted the title Yuan.
When Wang Xiang passed away, the mourners were either wise ministers in the court, relatives or former officials. There were no idle mourning guests in the house.
Wang Rong, the grandson of the family, sighed and said: The Taibao can be said to be honest and open-minded!
He also said: During the Zhengshi period, Wang Xiang was not among the celebrities who were good at speaking.
When talking to him, the truth is fresh and profound. Isn't it because his virtues cover up his kind words?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
祥有五子：肇、夏、馥、烈、芬。
肇孽庶，夏早卒，馥嗣爵。
咸宁初，以祥家甚贫俭，赐绢三百匹，拜馥上洛太守，卒谥曰孝。
子根嗣，散骑郎。
肇仕至始平太守。
肇子俊，守太子舍人，封永世侯。
俊子遐，郁林太守。
烈、芬并幼知名，为祥所爱。
二子亦同时而亡。
将死，烈欲还葬旧土，芬欲留葬京邑。
祥流涕曰： 不忘故乡，仁也；不恋本土，达也。
惟仁与达，吾二子有焉。
览字玄通。
母硃，遇祥无道。
览年数岁，见祥被楚挞，辄涕泣抱持。
至于成童，每谏其母，其母少止凶虐。
硃屡以非理使祥，览辄与祥俱。
又虐使祥妻，览妻亦趋而共之。
硃患之，乃止。
祥丧父之后，渐有时誉。
硃深疾之，密使鸩祥。
translation: 
Wang Xiang had five sons: Wang Zhao, Wang Xia, Wang Fu, Wang Lie, and Wang Fen.
Wang Zhao was a concubine, Wang Xia died early, and Wang Fu inherited the title.
In the early years of Xianning, because Wang Xiang's family was very poor, he was given 300 pieces of silk and appointed Wang Fu as the prefect of Shangluo. After his death, he was named Xiao.
His son Wang Gen inherited the title and was appointed Sanqi Lang.
From Wang Zhaogong to Shiping, he was the prefect.
Wang Zhao's son Wang Jun was appointed Prince Sheren and was granted the title of Eternal Marquis.
Wang Jun's son Wang Xia was appointed as the governor of Yulin.
Wang Lie and Wang Fen both became famous when they were young and were loved by Wang Xiang.
The two sons died at the same time.
When he was about to die, Wang Lie wanted to be buried in his hometown, and Wang Fen wanted to be buried in the capital.
Wang Xiang said with tears: Not forgetting your hometown is benevolence; not being nostalgic for your homeland is broad-minded.
Ren and Da, our two sons are ready.
Wang Lan's courtesy name is Xuantong.
His mother, Mrs. Zhu, treated Wang Xiang unkindly.
When Wang Lan was a few years old, he cried and hugged Wang Xiang when he saw Wang Xiang being beaten by a branch.
As an older child, he often remonstrated with his mother, who somewhat restrained her cruelty.
Zhu repeatedly drove Wang Xiang unreasonably, so Wang Lan went with Wang Xiang.
He also tortured and instigated Wang Xiang's wife, and Wang Lan's wife also did the same.
When Mr. Zhu had concerns, he gave up sending his talents.
After the death of his father, Wang Xiang gradually gained reputation.
Zhu was deeply jealous and secretly poisoned Wang Xiang with poisonous wine.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
览知之，径起取酒。
祥疑其有毒，争而不与，硃遽夺反之。
自后硃赐祥馔，览辄先尝。
硃惧览致毙，遂止。
览孝友恭恪，名亚于祥。
及祥仕进，览亦应本郡之召，稍迁司徒西曹掾、清河太守。
五等建，封即丘子，邑六百户。
泰始末，除弘训少府。
职省，转太中大夫，禄赐与卿同。
咸宁初，诏曰： 览少笃至行，服仁履义，贞素之操，长而弥固。
其以览为宗正卿。
顷之，以疾上疏乞骸骨。
诏听之，以太中大夫归老，赐钱二十万，床帐荐褥，遣殿中医疗疾给药。
后转光禄大夫，门施行马。
咸宁四年卒，时年七十三，谥曰贞。
有六子：裁、基、会、正、彦、琛。
translation: 
Wang Lan found out about this and got up to get the wine.
Wang Xiang suspected that the wine was poisonous and fought for it but refused to give it to him. Zhu quickly grabbed the wine and poured it away.
After that, Zhu gave Wang some food, and Wang Lan tasted it first.
Zhu was afraid that Wang Lan would be poisoned first, so he gave up.
Wang Lan has a lower reputation than Wang Xiang in terms of filial piety, kindness and respect.
When Wang Xiang became an official, Wang Lan also responded to the call from the county and was gradually promoted to Situ Xicao and Qinghe prefect.
After being awarded the fifth-class title, he was named Jiqiuzi and was granted a settlement of 600 households.
In the last years of Taishi's reign, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Hongxun.
After serving in the province, he was transferred to Taizhong doctor, and his salary and reward were the same as those of the minister.
In the early years of Xianning, Xia Shao wrote: Wang Lan had good conduct since he was a child, and he was benevolent and righteous in his work. His chaste conduct became more stable as he grew older.
Wang Lan was appointed Zong Zhengqing.
Soon, he submitted a letter requesting to resign on the grounds of illness.
Xia Shaoshu agreed that he would return to his old age as a Taizhong doctor, give him two hundred thousand yuan, a bed tent and a mattress, and send palace doctors to treat his illness and deliver medicine.
Later, he became a doctor of Guanglu, and a wooden frame was set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses.
He died in the fourth year of Xianning at the age of seventy-three, and his nickname was Zhen.
He has six sons: Wang Cai, Wang Ji, Wang Hui, Wang Zheng, Wang Yan and Wang Chen.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
裁字士初，抚军长史。
基字士先，治书御史。
会字士和，侍御史。
正字士则，尚书郎。
彦字士治，中护军。
琛字士玮，国子祭酒。
初，吕虔有佩刀，工相之，以为必登三公，可服此刀。
虔谓祥曰： 苟非其人，刀或为害。
卿有公辅之量，故以相与。
祥固辞，强之乃受。
祥临薨，以刀授览，曰： 汝后必兴，足称此刀。
览后奕世多贤才，兴于江左矣。
裁子导，别有传。
郑冲，字文和，荥阳开封人也。
起自寒微，卓尔立操，清恬寡欲，耽玩经史，遂博究儒术及百家之言。
有姿望，动必循礼，任真自守，不要乡曲之誉，由是州郡久不加礼。
translation: 
Wang Cai, whose courtesy name was Shichu, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Fu Army.
Wang Ji's courtesy name was Shixian, and he was appointed as the Censor of Zhishu.
Wang Hui's courtesy name was Shihe, and he was appointed as the censor.
Wang Zheng, courtesy name Shize, was appointed Shangshulang.
Wang Yan, nicknamed Shizhi, was appointed as the Central Guard.
Wang Chen, whose courtesy name was Shiwei, was appointed as the son of the state to offer wine.
At first, Lu Qian had a sword. The craftsman looked at it and thought that it must be someone who was in the position of Sangong and could wear this sword.
Lu Qian said to Wang Xiang: If it were not so, this sword might be a disaster.
You have the courage of a public servant, so I will give you the knife.
Wang Xiang firmly refused, but Lu Qian insisted that he accept.
Before Wang Xiang died, he handed the sword to Wang Lan and said: Your descendants will be prosperous enough to match this sword.
Wang Lan's descendants had many talented people from generation to generation and prospered in Jiangzuo.
There is another biography in this book about Wang Cai's son Wang Dao.
Zheng Chong, courtesy name Wenhe, was born in Kaifeng, Rongyang.
He was born in a poor and humble background, and established moral integrity beyond ordinary people. He was quiet and had few desires. He loved to ponder the classics and history, and he had extensive research on Confucianism and hundreds of schools of thought.
He has good looks and good reputation, must follow etiquette in his actions, be sincere and self-responsible, and does not seek the reputation of his hometown people. Therefore, the state and county did not discover his talent for a long time.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及魏文帝为太子，搜扬侧陋，命冲为文学，累迁尚书郎，出补陈留太守。
冲以儒雅为德，莅职无干局之誉，箪食缊袍，不营资产，世以此重之。
大将军曹爽引为从事中郎，转散骑常侍、光禄勋。
嘉平三年，拜司空。
及高贵乡公讲《尚书》，冲执经亲授，与侍中郑小同俱被赏赐。
俄转司徒。
常道乡公即位，拜太保，位在三司之上，封寿光侯。
冲虽位阶台辅，而不预世事。
时文帝辅政，平蜀之后，命贾充、羊祜等分定礼仪、律令，皆先谘于冲，然后施行。
及魏帝告禅，使冲奉策。
武帝践阼，拜太傅，进爵为公。
顷之，司隶李憙、中丞侯史光奏冲及何曾，荀顗等各以疾病，俱应免官。
帝不许。
冲遂不视事，表乞骸骨。
优诏不许，遣使申喻。
冲固辞，上貂蝉印绶，诏又不许。
translation: 
When Emperor Wen of Wei was the crown prince, he searched for and promoted lowly talents, appointed Zheng Chong as the literary minister, and was promoted to Shangshulang many times. He also went to Beijing to replace Chenliu as the prefect.
Zheng Chong regards elegance as his virtue. He does not have the reputation of being talented or magnanimous in his position. He only needs food and clothing and does not seek wealth. The world values ​​him for this.
General Cao Shuang recommended him to serve as a lieutenant, and then he was promoted to a regular attendant of Sanqi and Guang Luxun.
In the third year of Jiaping's reign, he was appointed Sikong.
When the Duke of Gaogui was giving lectures on Shangshu, Zheng Chong took the scriptures and taught them in person, and was rewarded together with his attendant Zheng Xiaotong.
Soon he was transferred to Situ.
Chang Daoxiang came to the throne and appointed him as Taibao, ranking above the three divisions, and named him Shouguang Hou.
Although Zheng Chong's official rank is the same as that of prime minister, he does not interfere in world affairs.
At that time, Emperor Wen assisted the government and after pacifying the Shu Kingdom, he ordered Jia Chong, Yang Hu and others to formulate etiquette and legal regulations respectively. They all asked Zheng Chong first and then implemented them.
When Emperor Wei announced his abdication, he sent Zheng Chong to present the policy letter.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, appointed him as Taifu, and promoted him to Duke.
Soon, Si Li Yi and Zhong Cheng Hou Shi Guang wrote a letter saying that Zheng Chong, He Zeng, Xun Hao and others should be relieved of their official positions due to illness.
The emperor did not allow it.
Zheng Chong then stopped dealing with political affairs and asked to resign.
He issued an edict to dissuade him with good words, and sent someone to explain.
Zheng Chong resolutely refused and handed over Diao Chan's seal ribbon, but the edict did not allow it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
泰始六年，诏曰： 昔汉祖以知人善任，克平宇宙，推述勋劳，归美三俊。
遂与功臣剖符作誓，藏之宗庙，副在有司，所以明德庸勋，籓翼王室者也。
昔我祖考，遭世多难，揽授英俊，与之断金，遂济时务，克定大业。
太傅寿光公郑冲、太保郎陵公何曾、太尉临淮公荀顗各尚德依仁，明允笃诚，翼亮先皇，光济帝业。
故司空博陵元公王沈、卫将军钜平侯羊祜才兼文武，忠肃居正，朕甚嘉之。
《书》不云乎： 天秩有礼，五服五章哉！
其为寿光、郎陵、临淮、博陵、钜平国置郎中令，假夫人、世子印绶，食本秩三分之一，皆如郡公侯比。
九年，冲又抗表致仕。
诏曰： 太傅韫德深粹，履行高洁，恬远清虚，确然绝世。
艾服王事，六十余载，忠肃在公，虑不及私。
遂应众举，历登三事。
仍荷保傅之重，绸缪论道之任，光辅奕世，亮兹天工，迪宣谋猷，弘济大烈，可谓朝之俊老，众所具瞻者也。
朕昧于政道，庶事未康，挹仰耆训，导扬厥蒙，庶赖显德，缉熙有成。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Taishi, Xia Shao Shu said: In the past, the emperor of the Han Dynasty was able to pacify the world by relying on his knowledge of people and his good deeds. He traced his merits and attributed his good name to the three heroes.
So he made an oath with the meritorious ministers to collect Fu Jiefeng and kept it in the ancestral temple, and the copy was left in the relevant departments, so as to show his virtue and appoint meritorious service, thereby protecting the auxiliary royal family.
In the past, my ancestors encountered difficulties in the world, recruited and appointed talented people, and worked with them to achieve worldly things and establish the great cause of the country.
The Grand Tutor Shouguang Gong Zheng Chong, the Taibao Langling Gong He Zeng, and the Taiwei Linhuai Gong Xun Hao each advocated virtue, benevolence and righteousness, were wise, fair and loyal, assisted the late emperor and prospered the emperor's career.
The former Sikong Bo Ling Yuan Gong Wang Shen and Wei General Ju Ping Hou Yang Hu were talented in both civil and military affairs, and they were loyal, respectful and upright. I admire them very much.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say: The order of heaven is polite, and the five levels of clothing and color are used to distinguish the superior and the inferior!
He appointed Langzhongling for Shouguang, Langling, Linhuai, Boling and Juping, gave seals to his wife and prince, and received one-third of the original official salary. Everything was like a prince in a county.
In the ninth year, Zheng Chong went out to resign again.
The edict said: The Taifu contains virtues, noble conduct, and is extraordinary. He is truly unparalleled in the world.
He has been involved in royal affairs for more than sixty years and is loyal to the public and does not consider personal gain.
According to everyone's recommendation, he once ascended to the position of Sangong.
He is still responsible for the important task of protecting the emperor, diligently discussing Taoism, and assisting generation after generation. He has completed the responsibilities entrusted by God, contributed strategies, and achieved great achievements. He can be said to be an outstanding veteran in the court and a person respected by everyone.
I am ignorant about politics, and many things have not been done yet. I rely on the advice of my old ministers to enlighten me. I hope that by relying on the virtue of my ministers, great things can be done.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
而公屡以年高疾笃，致仕告退。
惟从公志，则朕孰与谘谋？
譬彼涉川，罔知攸济。
是用未许，迄于累载。
而高让弥笃，至意难违，览其盛指，俾朕怃然。
夫功成弗有，上德所隆，成人之美，君子与焉。
岂必遂朕凭赖之心，以枉大雅进止之度哉！
今听其所执，以寿光公就第，位同保傅，在三司之右。
公宜颐精养神，保卫太和，以究遐福。
其赐几杖，不朝。
古之哲王，钦祗国老，宪行乞言，以弥缝其阙。
若朝有大政，皆就谘之。
又赐安车驷马，第一区，钱百万，绢五百匹，床帷簟褥，置舍人六人，官骑二十人，以世子徽为散骑常侍，使常优游定省。
禄赐所供，策命仪制，一如旧典而有加焉。
明年薨。
translation: 
However, the Duke resigned from his post many times on the grounds of old age and serious illness.
If I follow the Duke's wishes, then who should I ask for advice?
It’s like crossing a river on foot and not knowing where to get into the water.
So I didn't allow it, and it's been several years now.
However, my desire to resign became more and more determined, and it was difficult to go against my sincere intentions. Looking at his good intentions, I felt disappointed.
It is a sign of a noble person to accomplish something without enjoying it. Fulfilling the good deeds of others is what a gentleman should do.
Do you have to obey my wish to rely on dependence and violate the request of a talented and virtuous person to resign?
Now he obeys his wishes and returns to the mansion as Duke Shouguang. His status is like that of Taibao Taifu, above the three divisions.
Gong should maintain his spirit and maintain the harmony of yin and yang in order to enjoy his life.
I was given a cane for several cases, so I didn't have to go to court.
The sage kings of ancient times admired and respected the senior ministers of the country, imitated their actions, and solicited their opinions to make up for their shortcomings.
If there is any important matter in the court, go and ask them.
He was also given four chariots and horses, a house, one million coins, five hundred pieces of silk, beds and mats, six servants, and twenty cavalry. The eldest son Zheng Hui was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi, so that he would always have free time to pay respects to Zheng Chong.
Salaries, rewards and supplies, as well as orders and ritual systems, are all more comprehensive according to the old regulations.
He died the following year.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
帝于朝堂发哀，追赠太傅，赐秘器，朝服，衣一袭，钱三十万，布百匹。
谥曰成。
咸宁初，有司奏，冲与安平王孚等十二人皆存铭太常，配食于庙。
初，冲与孙邕、曹羲、荀顗、何晏共集《论语》诸家训注之善者，记其姓名，因从其义，有不安者辄改易之，名曰《论语集解》。
成，奏之魏朝，于今传焉。
冲无子，以从子徽为嗣，位至平原内史。
徽卒，子简嗣。
何曾，字颖考，陈国阳夏人也。
父夔，魏太仆、阳武亭侯。
曾少袭爵，好学博闻，与同郡袁侃齐名。
魏明帝初为平原侯，曾为文学。
及即位，累迁散骑侍郎、汲郡典农中郎将、给事黄门侍郎。
上疏曰： 臣闻为国者以清静为基，而百姓以良吏为本。
translation: 
The emperor expressed his condolences in the court hall and posthumously presented Zheng Chong as Taifu. He also gave the nobles a coffin, court robes, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan, and 100 pieces of cloth.
Mi Hao succeeded.
In the early years of Xianning, relevant officials reported that Zheng Chong, Anping King Sima Fu and other twelve people set up inscriptions in Taichang Temple and attached sacrifices in the temple.
At the beginning, Zheng Chong, together with Sun Yong, Cao Xi, Xun Hao and He Yan, collected various commentaries on "The Analects of Confucius", selected the good ones and recorded their names, followed their opinions, and changed the comments where inappropriate, which was called "Collected Commentary of the Analects of Confucius".
After the book was completed, it was reported to the Wei Dynasty and has been passed down to this day.
Zheng Chong had no sons, so his nephew Zheng Hui inherited the title and became an official in Pingyuan Neishi.
When Zheng Hui died, his son Zheng Jian inherited the title.
He Zeng, courtesy name Yingkao, was born in Yangxia, Chen State.
His father, He Kui, was the Taipu of Wei and the Marquis of Yangwu Ting.
He Zeng inherited the title when he was young. He was eager to learn and knowledgeable, and had a reputation with Yuan Kan from the same county.
Emperor Wei Ming was originally a Marquis of Pingyuan, but he was not a literary scholar.
When the emperor came to the throne, he was promoted many times to the positions of Minister of Sanqi, General of Diannong in Jijun, and Minister of Huangmen in Guishi.
He Zeng Shangshu said: I heard that the rule of the country is based on tranquility, and the people based on good officials.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
今海内虚耗，事役众多，诚宜恤养黎元，悦以使人。
郡守之权虽轻，犹专任千里，比之于古，则列国之君也。
上当奉宣朝恩，以致惠和，下当兴利而除其害。
得其人则可安，非其人则为患。
故汉宣称曰： 百姓所以安其田里，而无叹息愁恨之心者，政平讼理也。
与我共此者，其惟良二千石乎！
此诚可谓知政之本也。
方今国家大举，新有发调，军师远征，上下劬劳。
夫百姓可与乐成，难与虑始。
愚惑之人，能厌目前之小勤，而忘为乱之大祸者，是以郡守益不可不得其人。
才虽难备，犹宜粗有威恩，为百姓所信惮者。
臣闻诸郡守，有年老或疾病，皆委政丞掾，不恤庶事。
或体性疏怠，不以政理为意。
在官积年，惠泽不加于人。
然于考课之限，罪亦不至诎免。
故得经延岁月，而无斥罢之期。
臣愚以为可密诏主者，使隐核参访郡守，其有老病不隐亲人物，及宰牧少恩，好修人事，烦挠百姓者，皆可征还，为更选代。
translation: 
Nowadays, the world is empty and depleted, and there are many corvees. We should be considerate of the people and make them happy to pay taxes.
Although the power of the county governor is light, he is in charge of thousands of miles of territory. Compared with ancient times, he is the king of all countries.
To those above, one should respectfully and publicize the court's grace in order to gain harmony, while to those below, one should promote benefits and eliminate harm.
If you employ people appropriately, you will have stability; if you employ them inappropriately, you will have disaster.
Therefore, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty said: The reason why the people can live and work in peace and contentment without any resentment is because the politics are fair and the litigation is reasonable.
The people who started my business with me relied on those good officials with a salary of two thousand dan!
This can actually be said to be the foundation of knowing how to govern.
Nowadays, the country vigorously recruits talents, and there are often dispatches and transfers, military expeditions, and hard work.
The people can enjoy success with the court, but it is difficult to think about the beginning together.
Foolish people can be satisfied with the current small hardships and forget about the big disasters that cause turmoil. Therefore, the county governor cannot appoint inappropriate people.
It is difficult to find talented people, so it is better to use people who are a little dignified and trusted and respected by the people.
I heard that some county guards, some of whom are old or sick, leave political affairs to their subordinate officials and do not worry about political affairs.
Some people are lazy by nature and do not take government affairs to heart.
He has been in office for many years and has not been kind to the people.
However, when officials are evaluated, they will not be dismissed if they commit crimes.
Therefore, he can go year after year without being dismissed.
I think we can secretly send people in charge to secretly examine and inspect the county governors. Those who are too old and sick to be in charge, and those who lack grace among the officials and like to engage in personal affairs and annoy the people can be recalled to Beijing and replaced by replacements.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
顷之，迁散骑常侍。
及宣帝将伐辽东，曾上疏魏帝曰： 臣闻先王制法，必全于慎。
故建官受任，则置副佐；陈师命将，则立监贰；宣命遣使，则设介副；临敌交刃，又参御右，盖以尽思谋之功，防安危之变也。
是以在险当难，则权足相济；陨缺不豫，则才足相代。
其为国防，至深至远。
及至汉氏，亦循旧章，韩信伐赵，张耳为贰；马援讨越，刘隆副军。
前世之迹，著在篇志。
今太尉奉辞诛罪，精甲锐锋，步骑数万，道路迥阻，且四千里。
虽假天威，有征无战，寇或潜遁，消引日月。
命无常期，人非金石，远虑详备，诚宜有副。
今北军诸将及太尉所督，皆为僚属，名位不殊，素无定分统御之尊，卒有变急，不相镇摄。
存不忘亡，圣达所裁。
臣愚以为宜选大臣名将威重宿著者，成其礼秩，遣诣北军，进同谋略，退为副佐。
虽有万一不虞之变，军主有储，则无患矣。
translation: 
Soon, he was promoted to a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When Emperor Xuan was about to attack Liaodong, he went to Emperor Wei and said: I heard that the former king must be cautious and thorough when formulating laws and regulations.
Therefore, when officials are appointed, deputy assistants are set up; when generals are dispatched, deputy posts are set up to supervise the army; when orders are announced and envoys are dispatched, deputies are set up; when fighting the enemy, a right guard is set up, all for the purpose of careful planning and preventing changes in safety.
Therefore, in times of danger and difficulty, the powers are sufficient to restrict each other; in the event of injuries or shortages, they are sufficient to provide substitutes.
Construction has far-reaching significance for national defense.
In the Han Dynasty, the old rules were also followed. When Han Xin conquered Han, his 丸 was his deputy; when a donkey conquered Han, his legs were his deputy.
The events of past lives are written in history books.
Now the Taiwei is ordered to punish the criminals. The soldiers are brave and have sharp weapons. There are tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry. The road is winding and dangerous, and it is four thousand miles long.
Although with the power of God, there is no battle, the enemy may abscond and kill time.
There is no fixed date for military orders, and people are not gold and stones. For comprehensive and far-reaching considerations, there should be a deputy position.
Nowadays, the generals of the Northern Army and the people led by the Taiwei are all subordinates, and there is no difference in their status. They have never had the status and the prestige of commanding the army. Suddenly, there is an emergency and they cannot control them.
It is the decision of a sage king to worry about defeat when you win.
I think we should select the most prestigious ministers and veterans among the famous ministers and generals, arrange their official positions, and send them to the Northern Army to plan the advance together and retreat as their deputies.
Even if something unexpected happens, the army commander will still have a deputy position, so there will be no worries.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
帝不从。
出补河内太守，在任有威严之称。
征拜侍中，母忧去官。
嘉平中，为司隶校尉。
抚军校事尹模凭宠作威，奸利盈积，朝野畏惮，莫敢言者。
曾奏劾之，朝廷称焉。
时曹爽专权，宣帝称疾，曾亦谢病。
爽诛，乃起视事，魏帝之废也，曾预其谋焉。
时步兵校尉阮籍负才放诞，居丧无礼。
曾面质籍于文帝座曰： 卿纵情背礼，败俗之人，今忠贤执政，综核名实，若卿之曹，不可长也。
因言于帝曰： 公方以孝治天下，而听阮籍以重哀饮酒食肉于公座。
宜摈四裔，无令污染华夏。
帝曰： 此子羸病若此，君不能为吾忍邪！
曾重引据，辞理甚切。
帝虽不从，时人敬惮之。
毌丘俭诛，子甸、妻荀应坐死。
其族兄顗、族父虞并景帝姻通，共表魏帝以丐其命。
诏听离婚，荀所生女芝为颍川太守刘子元妻，亦坐死，以怀妊系狱。
荀辞诣曾乞恩曰： 芝系在廷尉，顾影知命，计日备法。
乞没为官婢，以赎芝命。
曾哀之，腾辞上议。
朝廷佥以为当，遂改法。
语在《刑法志》。
translation: 
The emperor did not listen.
He left the capital to serve as the governor of Hanoi, and had a majestic reputation in office.
He was recruited as a servant, but resigned due to the death of his mother.
During the Jiaping period, he served as the school captain of Sili.
Yin Mo, the official of the Fujun Academy, showed off his authority by being favored and made a lot of illegal profits. He was feared both inside and outside the court, and no one dared to speak out.
Tanshou impeached him, and the court praised the incident.
At that time, Cao Shuang was in power, and Emperor Xuan claimed to be ill, but he retired due to illness.
Cao Shuang was killed and became an official. How could he participate in the planning of Emperor Wei's deposedness?
At that time, the infantry colonel Ruan Ji was dissolute and eccentric because of his talent, and he did not pay attention to etiquette when in mourning.
The fish beast confronted the doctor in front of Sai Tong and said: You are indulgent and violate the etiquette, and you are a corrupt person. Now that the loyal and virtuous people are in power, based on the facts and names, people like you cannot last long.
He also said to Emperor Wen: "The Duke governs the world with filial piety, but let Ruan Ji drink wine and eat meat in front of you while he is observing filial piety."
He should be excluded from the country and not allowed to pollute China.
Emperor Wen said: This is what's wrong with this man. Can't you be patient for me?
He once quoted scriptures and argued with great enthusiasm.
Although Emperor Wen did not obey, people at that time were in awe of He Zeng.
Guanqiu Jian was executed, and his son's mother, Qiudian's wife, Xun, should be sentenced to death.
Clan brother Xun Zhuan and clan father Xun Yu were both related by marriage to Emperor Jing, and they both petitioned Emperor Wei for her life.
The edict stated that they were allowed to divorce. Qiu Zhi, the daughter of the Gou family, was the wife of Liu Ziyuan, the prefect of Yingchuan. She was also sentenced to death and was thrown into prison because of her pregnancy.
Xun sent a message to He Zeng to beg for mercy, saying: "My mother Qiu Zhi is in prison. Gu Ying feels sorry for himself and is counting the days to prepare for punishment."
He begged to become an official slave and redeem his mother Qiu Zhi's life.
How could he ever pity her and send a letter to her for discussion?
The imperial court thought it was appropriate and amended the law.
The memorial can be found in the book "Criminal Law Chronicles".


Chunk 15: 
original: 
曾在司隶积年，迁尚书，正元年中为镇北将军、都督河北诸军事、假节。
将之镇，文帝使武帝、齐王攸辞送数十里。
曾盛为宾主，备太牢之馔。
侍从吏驺，莫不醉饱。
帝既出，又过其子劭。
曾先敕劭曰： 客必过汝，汝当豫严。
劭不冠带，停帝良久，曾深以谴劭。
曾见崇重如此。
迁征北将军，进封颍昌乡侯。
咸熙初，拜司徒，改封郎陵侯。
文帝为晋王，曾与高柔、郑冲俱为三公，将入见，曾独致拜尽敬，二人犹揖而已。
武帝袭王位，以曾为晋丞相，加侍中。
与裴秀、王沈等劝进。
践阼，拜太尉，进爵为公，食邑千八百户。
泰始初，诏曰： 盖谟明弼谐，王躬是保，所以宣崇大训，克咸四海也。
侍中、太尉何曾，立德高峻，执心忠亮，博物洽闻，明识弘达，翼佐先皇，勋庸显著。
translation: 
He Zeng held the position of Sili for many years and was promoted to Shangshu. In the first year of Zhengyuan, he was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs and holidays in Hebei.
When he was about to take office, Emperor Wen sent Emperor Wu and King Sima You of Qi to see him off for dozens of miles.
Have you ever solemnly performed the courtesy of guest and host, and prepared meals of cattle, sheep, pigs, etc.?
All the attendants accompanying him were well fed and drunk.
After Emperor Wu left, he stopped by to visit He Zeng's son He Shao.
He Zeng warned He Shao in advance: Guests will definitely drop by to visit you. You should prepare in advance and treat the guests grandly.
He Shao didn't wear a crown or lace, which made Emperor Wu stay for a long time, and he never scolded He Shao severely.
Have you ever been valued like this?
He was promoted to General of the Northern Expedition and granted the title of Marquis of Yingchang Township.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was appointed Situ and was granted the title of Marquis of Langling.
When Emperor Wen was the king of the Jin Dynasty, he, Gao Rou and Zheng Chong were the three princes. When they were about to enter the palace to pay homage, they knelt down in the most respectful manner. The two of them only bowed their hands.
Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne and appointed He Zeng as the prime minister of Jin and as a minister.
He Zeng, Pei Xiu, Wang Shen and others persuaded the King of Jin to ascend the throne.
After ascending to the throne of the emperor, He Zeng was promoted to Taiwei, his title was promoted to Duke, and he was granted an estate of 1,800 yuan.
In the early years of Taishi, the edict said: Plan shrewdly to assist harmony and protect the royal family, so as to spread teachings and spread throughout the world.
He Zeng, a Shizhong and Taiwei, was of high moral character, loyal and straightforward, erudite and far-sighted. He assisted the late Emperor and made outstanding contributions.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
朕纂洪业，首相王室。
迪惟前人，施于朕躬。
实佐命兴化，光赞政道。
夫三司之任，虽左右王事，若乃予违汝弼，匡奖不逮，则存平保傅。
故将明衮职，未如用乂厥辟之重。
其以曾为太保，侍中如故。
久之，以本官领司徒。
曾固让，不许。
遣散骑常侍谕旨，乃视事。
进位太傅。
曾以老年，屡乞逊位。
诏曰： 太傅明朗高亮，执心弘毅，可谓旧德老成，国之宗臣者也。
而高尚其事，屡辞禄位。
朕以寡德，凭赖保佑，省览章表，实用怃然。
虽欲成人之美，岂得遂其雅志，而忘翼佐之益哉！
又司徒所掌务烦，不可久劳耆艾。
其进太宰，侍中如故。
朝会剑履乘舆上殿，如汉相国萧何、田千秋、魏太傅锺繇故事。
赐钱百万，绢五百匹及八尺床帐簟褥自副。
translation: 
I inherited the great cause, and he first served as the prime minister of the royal family.
Just like the ancients, help me.
In fact, it was Sasuke who granted destiny, promoted enlightenment, and praised politics.
Although the position of the Third Division can influence the political affairs of the dynasty, if I disobey your assistance and the rewards of the Third Division's correction are insufficient, Baofu will be responsible.
Therefore, it is best to use talented people to assist the king and put him in an important position.
He Zeng was appointed as Taibao, and his position as servant remained as before.
After a long time, he also served as Situ in addition to his own duties.
He once insisted on giving in, but Emperor Wu would not allow it.
He was sent to serve as a regular attendant on Xiao's orders, and then he took office.
The carry is Taifu.
He had repeatedly begged to resign on the grounds of old age.
The edict said: Taifu is upright, upright, strong and decisive. It can be said that he is highly respected and a famous minister of the country.
For the sake of state affairs, he resigned from his official position many times.
I am not very virtuous, so I relied on the blessing and looked at the seal. I was really disappointed.
Although I think about the beauty of adulthood, how can I follow his elegant ambition and forget the benefits of his assistance!
However, the tasks in charge of Situ were heavy and could not tire the old man for a long time.
If he is promoted to Dazai, he will remain as a servant.
During the court meeting, he wore a sword, wore shoes, and rode in a carriage, just like Xiao He, Tian Qianqiu, and Wei Taifu Zhong Yao of Mo Xiangguo.
He was given a million dollars, five hundred bolts of silk, and two sets of eight-foot beds, tents, mats, and mattresses.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
置长史掾属祭酒及员吏，一依旧制。
所给亲兵官骑如前。
主者依次按礼典，务使优备。
后每召见，敕以常所饮食服物自随，令二子侍从。
咸宁四年薨，时年八十。
帝于朝堂素服举哀，赐东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，钱三十万，布百匹。
将葬，下礼官议谥。
博士秦秀谥为 缪丑 ，帝不从，策谥曰孝。
太康末，子劭自表改谥为元。
曾性至孝，闺门整肃，自少及长，无声乐嬖幸之好。
年老之后，与妻相见，皆正衣冠，相待如宾。
己南向，妻北面，再拜上酒，酬酢既毕便出。
一岁如此者不过再三焉。
初，司隶校尉傅玄著论称曾及荀顗曰： 以文王之道事其亲者，其颍昌何侯乎，其荀侯乎！
translation: 
The setting up of the chief minister's subordinates to offer wine and attendants shall all follow the old regulations.
The soldiers, officers and cavalry given were the same as before.
The person in charge must follow the etiquette in order and must be rich and complete.
From now on, whenever he was summoned, he was asked to bring his usual food and clothing with him, and his two sons were asked to serve him.
Sheng Ning died in the fourth year of his reign at the age of eighty.
The emperor paid his respects in plain clothes in the court hall, and gave the nobles a coffin, a set of court uniforms, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand dollars, and a hundred pieces of cloth.
When he is about to be buried, let the ceremonial officials discuss the title of Mi.
The doctor's stage show was given the nickname "Miao Chou", but the emperor did not comply, so he decided to give him the nickname "Xiao".
In the last years of Taikang's reign, his son He Shao changed his name from Mi to Wu.
He was born with a very filial nature and his family was serious and solemn. From childhood to adulthood, he had no interest in singing, dancing or favoring maids and concubines.
When you get older, when you meet your wife, you should dress appropriately and treat each other with respect as a guest.
He faces south and his wife faces north, bows twice to drink wine, and goes out after toasting and socializing.
This happens only two or three times a year.
At the beginning, Sili Xiaowei Bao Sai wrote an article praising Bao Shouji: The title said: Isn't it the Marquis of Yingchang He who serves his relatives according to the way of King Sai? Isn't it Bao Bao!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
古称曾、闵，今日荀、何。
内尽其心以事其亲，外崇礼让以接天下。
孝子，百世之宗；仁人，天下之命。
有能行孝之道，君子之仪表也。
《诗》云： 高山仰止，景行行止。 令德不遵二夫子之景行者，非乐中正之道也。
又曰： 荀、何，君子之宗也。
又曰： 颍昌侯之事亲，其尽孝子之道乎！
存尽其和，事尽其敬，亡尽其哀，予于颍昌侯见之矣。
又曰： 见其亲之党，如见其亲，六十而孺慕，予于颍昌侯见之矣。
然性奢豪，务在华侈。
帷帐车服，穷极绮丽，厨膳滋味，过于王者。
每燕见，不食太官所设，帝辄命取其食。
蒸饼上不坼作十字不食。
食日万钱，犹曰无下箸处。
人以小纸为书者，敕记室勿报。
translation: 
The ancients praised Daofeng for participating in the alliance's losses, and today he can be counted as a bud and a bag.
Serve your loved ones wholeheartedly at home, and respect and treat others with courtesy outside.
A filial son is a master of all generations; a benevolent man is an outstanding talent in the world.
If you can practice filial piety, you will have the appearance of a gentleman.
"The Book of Songs" says: The mountains stand tall and the scenery stops. Those who pursue virtue and do not follow the two masters do not like the upright way.
He also said: Xun and He are the masters of the gentleman.
He also said: Marquis Yingchang served his relatives, didn’t he fulfill the duty of a filial son?
He was as kind as possible when he was asked, he was as respectful as possible when he served, and he was as sad as possible when he was buried. I saw these qualities in Marquis Yingchang.
He also said: Meeting like-minded people is like meeting a relative. Although he is sixty years old, he looks up to and loves him like a young child. I saw this kind of character in Yingchang Hou.
However, if you have ever been extravagant in nature, you must be luxurious and extravagant.
The curtains, carriages, and clothes should be as gorgeous as possible, and the food, wine, and food should exceed those of the royal family.
Whenever he attended a banquet and refused to eat the food prepared by the eunuch, the emperor would order him to get his own food.
He won't eat the steamed cake until it splits into a cross.
One day's food costs ten thousand yuan, and he says he has nowhere to put down chopsticks.
Someone had written a letter on a small piece of paper and he told the concierge not to report it.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
刘毅等数劾奏曾侈忲无度，帝以其重臣，一无所问。
都官从事刘享尝奏曾华侈，以铜钩纼车，莹牛蹄角。
后曾辟享为掾，或劝勿应，享谓至公之体，不以私憾，遂应辟。
曾常因小事加享杖罚。
其外宽内忌，亦此类也。
时司空贾充权拟人主，曾卑充而附之。
及充与庾纯因酒相竞，曾议党充而抑纯，以此为正直所非。
二子：遵、劭。
劭嗣。
劭字敬祖，少与武帝同年，有总角之好。
帝为王太子，以劭为中庶子。
及即位，转散骑常侍，甚见亲待。
劭雅有姿望，远客朝见，必以劭侍直。
每诸方贡献，帝辄赐之，而观其占谢焉。
咸宁初，有司奏劭及兄遵等受故鬲令袁毅货，虽经赦宥，宜皆禁止。
事下廷尉。
诏曰： 太保与毅有累世之交，遵等所取差薄，一皆置之。
translation: 
Liu Yi and others went to court for impeachment several times and were extravagant. The emperor, because he was an important minister, did not ask any questions.
Liu Xiang, the official in charge of the capital, once reported to He Zeng that he was extravagant, using copper hook ribbons to make cow nose ropes to decorate the cow's hoof horns.
Later, Liu Xiang was recruited as an official, but some people advised Liu Xiang not to agree. Liu Xiang believed that this was entirely a business matter and would not involve personal grudges, so he applied.
Why was he often punished with a stick and a seal box for trivial matters?
The so-called tolerance on the outside but jealousy on the inside is this kind of thing.
At that time, Sikong Jia Chong's power was similar to that of a king. How could he be humble and dependent on Jia Li?
When Mai Chong and Yu Chun quarreled over wine, He Beast favored Gen Chong and suppressed the clock. Therefore, he was criticized by the upright people.
He once had two sons: He Zun and He Shao.
He Shao inherited the title.
He Shao, named Jingzu, was the same age as Emperor Wu when he was young, and they had a friendship since childhood.
When Emperor Wu was the crown prince, He Shao was considered the concubine.
When he came to the throne, He Shao was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, and he was very close to him.
He Shao had good looks and reputation, and when guests from far away came to court, He Shao would definitely accompany him.
Whenever various places made contributions, the emperor would reward him and watch him express his thanks.
In the early years of Xianning, officials reported that He Shao and his brother He Zun had accepted property from Sai Yao, a former member of the family. Although they had been pardoned, they should still be completely prohibited.
The matter was left to Ting Wei.
Shao Shu said: Taibao and Saiqian have been friends for several generations, and He Zun and others have been exempted from all the minor charges they received.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
迁侍中尚书。
惠帝即位，初建东宫，太子年幼，欲令亲万机，故盛选六傅，以劭为太子太师，通省尚书事。
后转特进，累迁尚书左仆射。
劭博学，善属文，陈说近代事，若指诸掌。
永康初，迁司徒。
赵王伦篡位，以劭为太宰。
及三王交争，劭以轩冕而游其间，无怨之者。
而骄奢简贵，亦有父风。
衣裘服玩，新故巨积。
食必尽四方珍异，一日之供以钱二万为限。
时论以为太官御膳，无以加之。
然优游自足，不贪权势。
尝语乡人王诠曰： 仆虽名位过幸，少无可书之事，惟与夏侯长容谏授博士，可传史册耳。
所撰《荀粲》、《王弼传》及诸奏议文章并行于世。
永宁元年薨，赠司徒，谥曰康。
子岐嗣。
劭初亡，袁粲吊岐，岐辞以疾。
translation: 
Promoted to the position of minister.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and began to build the East Palace. The prince was young and wanted him to govern personally, so he solemnly selected the Sixth Fu and appointed He Shao as the prince's grand master and also in charge of the affairs of the minister.
Later, he became a special scholar and was gradually promoted to Shangshu Zuopushe.
He Shao was erudite, good at writing articles, and described modern events with a thorough knowledge.
In the early years of Yongkang, he was appointed Situ.
King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne and appointed He Shao as Grand Prime Minister.
When the three kings fought, He Shaochengxuan and Dai Mian were among them, and no one resented him.
And arrogant and extravagant, just like his father's style.
There are a lot of old and new clothing and toys.
You must eat rare and exotic foods from all over the world, and the daily supply is limited to 20,000 yuan.
Comments at the time believed that the food served by imperial officials could not surpass He Shao's meals.
However, he is self-sufficient and not greedy for power.
He once said to Wang Quan, a fellow countryman: Although I was too lucky in my fame and position, there was nothing that could be recorded when I was young. Only the fact that I and Chang Rong, the Marquis of Xia, came to admonish and confer a doctorate could be passed down in the annals of history.
The "Biography of Xun Can", "Biography of Wang Bi" and those memorial articles written by him are all spread in the world.
When Yongning died in the first year of his life, he gave it to Situ and gave him the nickname Kang.
His son He Qi inherited.
When He Shao just passed away, Yuan Can paid his condolences to He Qi, but He Qi declined on the grounds of illness.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
粲独哭而出曰： 今年决下婢子品。
王诠谓之曰： 知死吊死，何必见生！
岐前多罪，尔时不下，何公新亡，便下岐品。人谓中正畏强易弱。
粲乃止。
遵字思祖，劭庶兄也。
少有干能。
起家散骑黄门郎、散骑常侍、侍中，累转大鸿胪。
性亦奢忲，役使御府工匠作禁物，又鬻行器，为司隶刘毅所奏，免官。
太康初，起为魏郡太守，迁太仆卿，又免官，卒于家，四子，嵩、绥、机、羡。
嵩字泰基，宽弘爱士，博观坟籍，尤善《史》、《汉》。
少历清官，领著作郎。
绥字伯蔚，位至侍中尚书。
自以继世名贵，奢侈过度，性既轻物，翰札简傲。
城阳王尼见绥书疏，谓人曰： 伯蔚居乱而矜豪乃尔，岂其免乎！
刘舆、潘滔谮之于东海王越，越遂诛绥。
初，曾侍武帝宴，退而告遵等曰： 国家应天受禅，创业垂统。
translation: 
Yuan Can came out crying and said: This year, He Qi is determined to be demoted to the level of a slave.
Wang Quan said to him: Why do you need to see the living when you are mourning the dead?
He Qi had committed too many crimes before, but he was not demoted at that time. Just after He Gong passed away, he was demoted. People would say that you were afraid of bullying the weak.
Only then did Yuan Can give up.
He Zun, whose courtesy name was Sizu, was He Shao's concubine.
Talented at a young age.
He was initially appointed as Huang Menlang of Sanqi, Changshi of Sanqi, and Shizhong, and was gradually promoted to Dahonglu.
He was also extravagant, forcing the imperial craftsmen to make items for use in the palace, and selling the monarch's travel equipment. Liu Yi, the secretary, participated in the performance and was dismissed from office.
In the early years of Taikang, he was appointed as the prefect of Wei County, promoted to the imperial servant, and was dismissed from office. He died at home. He has four sons: He Song, He Sui, He Ji, and He Xian.
He Song, also known as Taiji, was a generous lover, well-read in classics, and especially proficient in "Historical Records" and "Hanshu".
When he was young, he held an official position with a high status and not complicated political affairs, and also served as a writer.
He Sui's courtesy name was Bo Wei, and he was a minister in the imperial court.
He considers himself a noble person, is excessively extravagant, has a scornful temperament, and is arrogant in his work.
When King Ni of Chengyang saw He Sui writing a memorial, he said to someone: "Bo Wei is so arrogant when he is in war. How can he avoid disaster?"
Liu Yu and Pan Tao spoke ill of Shuhai King Sima Yue in front of him, so Sima Yue killed He Sui.
At first, He served Emperor Wu at a banquet. After returning, he told He Zun and others: The country accepted the abdication in accordance with the destiny and created great achievements to be passed down to future generations.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
吾每宴见，未尝闻经国远图，惟说平生常事，非贻厥孙谋之兆也。
及身而已，后嗣其殆乎！
此子孙之忧也。
汝等犹可获没。
指诸孙曰： 此等必遇乱亡也。
及绥死，嵩哭之曰； 我祖其大圣乎！
机为邹平令。
性亦矜傲，责乡里谢鲲等拜。
或戒之曰： 礼敬年爵，以德为主。
令鲲拜势，惧伤风俗。
机不以为惭。
羡为离狐令。
既骄且吝，陵驾人物，乡闾疾之如仇。
永嘉之末，何氏灭亡无遗焉。
石苞，字仲容，渤海南皮人也。
雅旷有智局，容仪伟丽，不修小节。
故时人为之语曰： 石仲容，姣无双。
县召为吏，给农司马。
会谒者阳翟郭玄信奉使，求人为御，司马以苞及邓艾给之。
行十余里，玄信谓二人曰： 子后并当至卿相。
苞曰： 御隶也，何卿相乎？
translation: 
Every time I go to a banquet, I never hear any long-term strategies for running the country, only trivial things. This is not a sign of plans for future generations.
If you can still be in power, your descendants may be in danger!
This is a worry for our descendants.
You can still be safe.
Pointing to his grandchildren, he said: These people must be in troubled times.
When He Sui died, He Song cried to him and said: My grandfather is really a great saint!
He Ji is Zouping Ling.
He was also arrogant and ordered fellow countrymen Xie Kun and others to kneel down and worship.
Someone warned him: Etiquette is based on age and title, and virtue is the main thing.
Asking Xie Wan to worship power is probably against the customs.
He Ji didn't feel ashamed.
He Xian is Lihuling.
He is arrogant and loves money, and he puts himself above others. The villagers hate him as an enemy.
In the last years of Yongjia, every member of the He family died.
Shi Bao, courtesy name Zhongrong, was from Nanpi, Bohai Sea.
Elegant, cheerful and intelligent, with beautiful appearance and appearance, he does not pay attention to details.
Therefore, when people talked about him at that time, they said: Shi Zhongrong is unparalleled in beauty.
The county called him as a minor official to be dispatched by the farmers and horses.
It happened that Guo Xuanxin, the visitor to Yangzhai, was ordered to go on an envoy to find the driver. Sima gave Shi Bao and Deng Ai to him.
After walking for more than ten miles, Xuanxin said to the two of them: You will all become officials and prime ministers in the future.
Shi Bao said: How can a servant who drives a carriage become a minister?


Chunk 23: 
original: 
既而又被使到鄴，事久不决，乃贩铁于鄴市。
市长沛国赵元儒名知人，见苞，异之，因与结交。
叹苞远量，当至公辅，由是知名，见吏部郎许允，求为小县。
允谓苞曰； 卿是我辈人，当相引在朝廷，何欲小县乎？
苞还叹息，不意允之知己乃如此也。稍迁景帝中护军司马。
宣帝闻苞好色薄行，以让景帝。
帝答曰： 苞虽细行不足，而有经国才略。
夫贞廉之士，未必能经济世务。
是以齐桓忘管仲之奢僭，而录其匡合之大谋；汉高舍陈平之污行，而取其六奇之妙算。
苞虽未可以上俦二子，亦今日之选也。
意乃释。
徙鄴典农中郎将。
时魏世王侯多居鄴下，尚书丁谧贵倾一时，并较时利。
苞奏列其事，由是益见称。
translation: 
After that, he was sent to Ye again. He could not finish his work for a long time, so he sold iron in the market of Ye.
Mayor Pei Guo and Zhao Yuanru were known for being good at discovering talents. When he saw Shi Bao, he was surprised and made friends with Shi Bao.
Sighing that Shi Bao had great energy, he served as an official and served as a auxiliary to the public, so Shi Bao became famous. I met Xu Yun, the official of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and asked to be appointed as the magistrate of a small county.
Xu Yun said to Shi Bao: "You are a generation sent by us. We should recommend each other to the court. Why do you want a small county?"
Shi Bao sighed after going back. He didn't expect Xu Yun to be such a confidant. Gradually he was promoted to Sima of the Imperial Guard of Emperor Jing.
Emperor Xuan heard that Shi Bao was a womanizer but did not pay attention to his character, so he blamed Emperor Jing.
Emperor Jing replied: Although Shi Bao is deficient in small matters, he has the talent to govern the country.
A chaste and honest person may not be able to manage state affairs.
Therefore, Duke Huan of Qi did not care about Guan Zhong's extravagance and arrogance, but adopted his great strategy to conquer the world; Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty did not consider the shortcomings in Chen Ping's life, but adopted his six wonderful strategies.
Although Shi Bao can't compare with them, he can still be considered as today's candidate.
Only then did he get rid of his scruples.
He was promoted to Ye Diannong Zhonglang Jiang.
At that time, most of the princes of the Wei Dynasty lived in Yexia. The power of Shangshu Ding Mi was unparalleled at that time, and he cared about temporary interests.
There are memorials on the stone buds displaying these things, so they are even more praised.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
历东莱、琅邪太守，所在皆有威惠。
迁徐州刺史。
文帝之败于东关也，苞独全军而退。
帝指所持节谓苞曰： 恨不以此授卿，以究大事。
乃迁苞为奋武将军、假节、监青州诸军事。
及诸葛诞举兵淮南，苞统青州诸军，督兗州刺史州泰、徐州刺史胡质，简锐卒为游军，以备外寇。
吴遣大将硃异、丁奉等来迎，诞等留辎重于都陆，轻兵渡黎水。
苞等逆击，大破之。
泰山太守胡烈以奇兵诡道袭都陆，尽焚其委输。异等收余众而退，寿春平。
拜苞镇东将军，封东光侯、假节。
顷之，代王基都督扬州诸军事。
苞因入朝。
当还，辞高贵乡公，留语尽日。
既出，白文帝曰： 非常主也。
数日而有成济之事。
后进位征东大将军，俄迁骠骑将军。
文帝崩，贾充、荀勖议葬礼未定。
translation: 
He has successively served as the governor of Donglai and Langye, and he has gained prestige and favor wherever he took office.
He was promoted to the governor of Xuzhou.
When Emperor Wen was defeated at Dongguan, only Shi Bao retreated.
Emperor Wen pointed to the talisman he took and said to Shi Bao: I regret not giving it to you to complete the great thing.
So Shibao was promoted to General Fenwu, Jiajie, and supervised the military affairs of Qingzhou.
When Zhuge Dan raised troops in Huainan, Shi Bao led the troops in Qingzhou, supervised Zhou Tai, the governor of Yanzhou, and Hu Zhi, the governor of Xuzhou, and selected elite soldiers as mobile troops to resist foreign enemies.
The state of Wu sent generals Zhu Yi, Ding Feng and others to fight. Zhuge Dan and others left their baggage in the capital and crossed the Lishui River with light troops.
Shi Bao and others attacked and defeated the enemy.
Hu Lie, the prefect of Taishan, sent out surprise troops to attack Dulu in a hidden way and burned all the enemy's transportation supplies. Zhu Yi and others gathered up the remaining troops and retreated.
After Shouchun was pacified, Shi Bao was awarded the title of General Zhenshu, and was granted the title of Marquis of Shuguang and Jiejie.
Soon, the acting king Jidu was in charge of the military affairs in Yangzhou.
Shi Bao therefore entered the court.
When it was time to return to his post, he announced his resignation to Gaogui Township and left him talking for a whole day.
After coming out, he said to Emperor Wen: He is not a permanent lord.
A few days later, Cheng Ji killed Gao Gui.
After that, he was promoted to General of Zhengshu, and soon changed to General of Hussars.
When Emperor Wen passed away, Jia Chong and Xun Xu discussed the funeral but failed to decide.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
苞时奔丧，恸哭曰： 基业如此，而以人臣终乎！
葬礼乃定。
后每与陈骞讽魏帝以历数已终，天命有在。
及禅位，苞有力焉。
武帝践阼，迁大司马，进封乐陵郡公，加侍中，羽葆鼓吹。
自诸葛破灭，苞便镇抚淮南，士马强盛，边境多务，苞既勤庶事，又以威德服物。
淮北监军王琛轻苞素微，又闻童谣曰： 宫中大马几作驴，大石压之不得舒。
因是密表苞与吴人交通。
先时望气者云 东南有大兵起 。
及琛表至，武帝甚疑之。
会荆州刺史胡烈表吴人欲大出为寇，苞亦闻吴师将入，乃筑垒遏水以自固。
帝闻之，谓羊祜曰： 吴人每来，常东西相应，无缘偏尔，岂石苞果有不顺乎？
祜深明之，而帝犹疑焉。
会苞子乔为尚书郎，上召之，经日不至。
帝谓为必叛，欲讨苞而隐其事。
遂下诏以苞不料贼势，筑垒遏水，劳扰百姓，策免其官。
遣太尉义阳王望率大军征之，以备非常。
又敕镇东将军、琅邪王伷自下邳会寿春。
苞用掾孙铄计，放兵步出，住都亭待罪。
帝闻之，意解。
及苞诣阙，以公还第。
苞自耻受任无效而无怨色。
时鄴奚官督郭暠上书理苞。
帝诏曰： 前大司马苞忠允清亮，才经世务，干用之绩，所历可纪。
translation: 
Shi Bao went to the funeral at that time and cried bitterly: "With such a foundation, how can we end up being a minister?"
The funeral was then decided.
After that, he often talked to Chen Qian to persuade Wei Emperor politely when he had exhausted his energy and had a choice in destiny.
When Zen abdicated the throne, Shi Bao stepped in.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, promoted him to the rank of Grand Sima, granted him the title of Duke of Leling County, added him as a servant, and used Yu Bao's chariot cover and drum unit.
Since Zhuge Dan was defeated, Shi Bao had been guarding Huainan, with strong troops and horses, and troubled borders. Shi Bao not only tried his best in various matters, but also convinced others with his majesty and kindness.
Huaibei Supervisor Wang Chen despised Shi Bao's humble background, and heard a nursery rhyme saying: The big horse in the palace has become a donkey, and the big stone can't help it.
So he secretly reported that Shi Bao was colluding with the Wu people.
The fortune teller said earlier that a large army was coming from the southeast.
When Wang Chen's seal arrived at the palace, Emperor Wu was very suspicious.
Just when Hu Lie, the governor of Jingzhou, reported that the Wu people planned to invade on a large scale, Shi Bao also heard that the Wu people would invade, so he built a wall to block the water for defense.
Emperor Wu heard about this and said to Yang Hu: Every time the Wu invaded, they always responded to each other from east to west. There was no reason to send troops from one side. Did Shi Baoguo really want to rebel?
Yang Ku tried his best to explain, but Emperor Wu still doubted Shi Bao.
It happened that Hu Man's son Hu Man was sold to be Shangshu Lang. The emperor summoned him, but he didn't arrive for a whole day.
Emperor Wu thought it must be a rebellion and planned to attack Shi Bao without making any announcement.
Then he issued an edict saying that Shi Bao lacked estimates of the enemy, built forts to block water, and worked hard to disturb the people, so he was dismissed from his official position.
The Taiwei Yiyang King Sima Wang was sent to lead a large army to recruit him back to Beijing to prepare for emergencies.
He also ordered Zhendong General and Langxie King Sima Dian to join forces with Huahua from Xia Li.
Hu Bao used the strategy of returning lithium by subordinate officials. He went out on foot without an army and lived in Duting to await punishment.
After Emperor Wu heard about it, he dispelled his suspicions.
Shi Bao arrived at the court and ordered him to return to the mansion as a public servant.
Shi Bao felt ashamed that he had no merit and had no intention of complaining.
At that time, the governor of Yexi, Juhuang, wrote a letter to defend Shi Bao.
The emperor wrote a letter to Shao saying: The former Grand Sima Shibao was loyal, fair, upright and upright. He was capable of managing world affairs, and his achievements in doing things can be recorded in all his experiences.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
宜掌教典，以赞时政。
其以苞为司徒。
有司奏： 苞前有折挠，不堪其任。
以公还第，已为弘厚，不宜擢用。
诏曰： 吴人轻脆，终无能为。
故疆埸之事，但欲完固守备，使不得越逸而已。
以苞计画不同，虑敌过甚，故征还更授。
昔邓禹挠于关中，而终辅汉室，岂以一眚而掩大德哉！
于是就位。
苞奏： 州郡农桑未有赏罚之制，宜遣掾属循行，皆当均其土宜，举其殿最，然后黜陟焉。
诏曰： 农殖者，为政之本，有国之大务也。
虽欲安时兴化，不先富而教之，其道无由。
而至今四海多事，军国用广，加承征伐之后，屡有水旱之事，仓库不充，百姓无积。
古道稼穑树艺，司徒掌之。
今虽登论道，然经国立政，惟时所急，故陶唐之世，稷官为重。
今司徒位当其任，乃心王事，有毁家纾国，乾乾匪躬之志。
其使司徒督察州郡播殖，将委事任成，垂拱仰办。
若宜有所循行者，其增置掾属十人，听取王官更练事业者。
苞在位称为忠勤，帝每委任焉。
translation: 
It is suitable to take charge of education and assist in government affairs.
Appoint Shi Bao as Situ.
The officials reported: Shi Bao has made mistakes before and cannot bear this important responsibility.
Resigning and returning home in his official capacity is already treating him favorably, and it is not appropriate to promote or appoint him.
Xia Shao said: The Wu people are weak and will not be able to accomplish anything.
Therefore, on the battlefield, the only purpose is to improve the defense so that the enemy cannot invade.
Because Shi Bao had different plans and was too worried about the enemy, he was recruited back to Beijing to be re-appointed.
In the past, Hengxi suffered a setback in Youzhong, but in the end he assisted the Han Dynasty. How can a small mistake cover up a great virtue?
So Shi Bao took office.
Shi Bao reports: There is no reward and punishment system for mulberry farming in prefectures and counties. Subordinate officials should be dispatched to patrol. They should determine the best and worst performance based on the soil and crops suitable for planting in each place, and then decide on the promotion or demotion of officials.
The edict said: Agriculture and breeding are the foundation of government and a major event in governing the country.
Although he wanted to stabilize the situation and promote enlightenment, it would not work without first getting rich and then educating the people.
However, there are many wars in the world, and the country's military needs are great, plus conquests. There are frequent floods and droughts, warehouses are not full, and people have no savings.
In ancient times, Situ was in charge of planting and harvesting.
Although it is in charge of education now, the governance of the country and the establishment of government affairs can only be based on the urgent needs of the time. Therefore, in the era of Dilu, the Farm Palace was the most important.
Now that Situ is in this position, he is loyal to the court and has the ambition to destroy his family and save the country and strive for self-improvement.
I sent Situ to supervise the farming in the prefectures and counties, and I will leave the matter to him. I hang my clothes and look forward to success.
If it is necessary to send someone to patrol the country and appoint ten additional officials, let him choose those who have experience in farming among the officials.
Shi Bao was known as loyal and diligent in his position, and the emperor often entrusted him with important tasks.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
泰始八年薨。
帝发哀于朝堂，赐秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，钱三十万，布百匹。
及葬，给节、幢、麾、曲盖、追锋车、鼓吹、介士、大车，皆如魏司空陈泰故事。车驾临送于东掖门外。
策谥曰武。
咸宁初，诏苞等并为王功，列于铭飨。
苞豫为《终制》曰： 延陵薄葬，孔子以为达礼；华元厚葬，《春秋》以为不臣，古之明义也。
自今死亡者，皆敛以时服，不得兼重。
又不得饭含，为愚俗所为。
又不得设床帐明器也。
定窆之后，复土满坎，一不得起坟种树。
昔王孙裸葬矫时，其子奉命，君子不讥，况于合礼典者耶？ 诸子皆奉遵遗令，又断亲戚故吏设祭。
有六子：越、乔、统、浚、俊、崇。
以统为嗣。
translation: 
He died in the eighth year of Taishi.
The emperor paid his condolences in the court hall and gave him a coffin, a set of court robes, a set of clothes, three hundred thousand dollars, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
During the burial, the emperor's funeral was carried out outside Shuye Gate with festivals, buildings, huts, qugai, chariots, drums, warriors, and carts, all according to the old practice of Wei Sikong and Chen Tai.
Ce Feng Mi was named Wu.
In the early years of Xianning, Shi Bao and others were ordered to enjoy the king's funeral ceremony and to keep inscriptions and sacrifices.
Shi Bao had written the "Final System" in advance and said: If Yanling was buried lightly, Ren Yuan would consider it a courtesy; if Hua Yuan was buried generously, "Spring and Autumn" would consider him unfaithful. This is a clear teaching in ancient times.
From now on, those who die will be buried in the clothes they wear at the time, and they cannot wear two sets of clothes.
You cannot put pearls, jade, beans, etc. into the mouth of the deceased and do what ordinary people do.
It is also not allowed to set up bed tents and sacrificial vessels.
After the coffin is buried, the hole is filled with soil, and no trees can be planted at the grave.
In the past, Yang Wangsun rectified the current situation by burying him naked. His sons followed their father's orders, and a gentleman would not ridicule them, not to mention those who conformed to the etiquette and codes. The sons all obeyed the orders, and refused to offer sacrifices to relatives or former subordinates.
Shi Bao had six sons: Shi Yue, Shi Qiao, Shi Tong, Shi Jun, Shi Jun, and Shi Chong.
Shi Tong inherited the title.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
统字弘绪，历位射声校尉、大鸿胪。
子顺，为尚书郎。
越字弘伦，早卒。
乔字弘祖，历尚书郎、散骑侍郎。
帝既召乔不得，深疑苞反。
及苞至，有惭色，谓之曰 卿子几破卿门 。
苞遂废之，终身不听仕。
又以有秽行，徙顿丘，与弟崇同被害。
二子超、熙亡走得免。
成都王颖之起义也，以超为折冲将军，讨孙秀，以功封侯。
又为振武将军，征荆州贼李辰。
颖与长沙王乂相攻，超常为前锋，迁中护军。
陈等挟惠帝北伐，超走还鄴。
颖使超距帝于荡阴，王师败绩，超逼帝幸鄴宫。
会王浚攻颖于鄴，颖以超为右将军以距浚，大败而归。
从驾之洛阳，西迁长安。
河间王颙以超领北中郎将，使与颖共距东海王越。
超于荥阳募兵，右将军王阐与典兵中郎赵则并受超节度，为豫州刺史刘乔继援。
范阳王虓逆击斩超，而熙得走免。
永嘉中，为太傅越参军。
浚字景伦，清俭有鉴识，敬爱人物。
位至黄门侍郎，为当世名士，早卒。
俊字彦伦，少有名誉，议者称为令器。
官至阳平太守，早卒。
崇字季伦，生于青州，故小名齐奴。
translation: 
Shi Tong, whose courtesy name was Hongxu, served successively as the captain of Shesheng and Dahonglu.
His son Shi Shun was appointed Shangshu Lang.
Shi Yue, whose courtesy name was Honglun, died early.
Shi Qiao, whose courtesy name was Hongzu, served successively as Shangshu Lang and Sanqi Shilang.
Since Emperor Wu could not summon Shi Qiao, he suspected Shi Bao of rebellion.
When Shi Bao arrived, Emperor Wu looked ashamed and said to him: Your son almost destroyed your family.
Shi Bao then deposed him and refused to let him serve as an official for the rest of his life.
Because of his dirty behavior, he was exiled to Dunqiu and was killed together with his younger brother Shi Chong.
His two sons, Shi Chao and Shi Xi, escaped and were not killed.
When King Sima Ying of Chengdu raised an army, he appointed Shi Chao as General Zhechong to attack Sun Xiu. He was granted the title of Marquis for his meritorious service.
He was also appointed General Zhenwu to conquer the Jingzhou bandits and bandits who were fighting for the house.
Sima Ying and Sima Yi, king of Kensha, attacked each other. Shi Chao served as the vanguard and was promoted to the central guard.
Chen Zhen and others kidnapped Emperor Hui for the Northern Expedition, and Shi Chao returned to Ye.
Sima Ying sent Shi Chao to resist the emperor in Dangyin. The emperor's army was defeated, and Shi Chao forced the emperor to visit Ye Palace.
When Wang Jun attacked Sima Ying in Ye, Sima Ying appointed Shi Chao as the right general to resist Wang Jun, but he returned with a disastrous defeat.
Follow the emperor to Luoyang and move west to Chang'an.
Sima Ji, the king of Hejian, appointed Shi Chao and General Beizhonglang, and sent him and Sima Ying to jointly resist Sima Yue, the king of the East China Sea.
Shi Chao recruited troops in Rongyang. Wang Chan, the right general, and Zhao Ze, the commander of the Dian soldiers, were both under Shi Chao's command and served as backup for Liu Qiao, the governor of Yuzhou.
Fanyang King Sima Chengcheng attacked and killed Shi Chao, but Shi Xi was able to escape and avoid death.
In the reign of Yongjia, Sima Yue was appointed as Taifu and joined the army.
Shi Jun, whose courtesy name is Jinglun, is honest, frugal, knowledgeable, and respectful.
He was a well-known scholar at the time when he reached the rank of Huangmen Shilang. He died early.
Shi Jun, courtesy name Yanlun, was famous when he was young. People who commented on him said that he was an outstanding talent.
When he reached Yangping Prefecture, he died early.
Shi Chong, whose courtesy name was Jilun, was born in Qingzhou, so his nickname was Qinu.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
少敏惠，勇而有谋。
苞临终，分财物与诸子，独不及崇。
其母以为言，苞曰： 此兒虽小，后自能得。
年二十余，为修武令，有能名。
入为散骑郎，迁城阳太守。
伐吴有功，封安阳乡侯。
在郡虽有职务，好学不倦，以疾自解。
顷之，拜黄门郎。
兄统忤扶风王骏，有司承旨奏统，将加重罚，既而见原。
以崇不诣阙谢恩，有司欲复加统罪。
崇自表曰： 臣兄统以先父之恩，早被优遇，出入清显，历位尽勤。
伏度圣心，有以垂察。
近为扶风王骏横所诬谤，司隶中丞等飞笔重奏，劾案深文，累尘天听。
臣兄弟跼蹐，忧心如悸。
骏戚属尊重，权要赫奕。
内外有司，望风承旨。
苟有所恶，易于投卵。
自统枉劾以来，臣兄弟不敢一言稍自申理。
translation: 
When he was young, he was smart, brave and resourceful.
When Shi Bao died, he divided his property among his sons, but not Shi Chong.
Shi Chong's mother spoke for Shi Chong, and Shi Bao said: Although this son is young, he can get it later.
In his twenties, he was practicing martial arts and had a reputation for being capable.
He entered the court as a Sanqi Lang and was promoted to the prefect of Chengyang.
For his meritorious service in the crusade against Wu, he was granted the title of Anyang Marquis.
Although he had a position in the county, he was eager to learn and asked to be dismissed due to illness.
Soon, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang.
Brother Shi Tong offended Sima Jun, King of Fufeng. Officials accepted the decree and impeached Shi Tong, who was about to be severely punished, but he was later forgiven.
Because Shi Chong did not go to the palace to thank him, the officials wanted to accuse Shi of ruling again.
Shi Chong himself said in the letter: With the grace of his late father, my brother Shi Tong received favorable treatment early on. His official position is clean and he works hard in office.
I guessed the emperor's heart and was aware of this.
Recently, he was slandered and slandered by King Sima Jun of Fufeng. Sili Zhongcheng and others used words to emphasize the memorial, and the impeachment memorial quoted the law and fabricated charges to cover up the emperor's hearing.
My two brothers were terrified and worried.
Sima Jun was a relative of the emperor, with a respected position and great power.
Officials at home and abroad can obey his will when they hear the news.
As long as you are disgusted, it is easier than throwing an egg.
Since Shi Tong was wronged and impeached, our brothers have not dared to say anything to defend ourselves.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
戢舌钳口，惟须刑书。
古人称 荣华于顺旨，枯槁于逆违 ，诚哉斯言，于今信矣。
是以虽董司直绳，不能不深其文，抱枉含谤，不得不输其理。
幸赖陛下天听四达，灵鉴昭远，存先父勋德之重，察臣等勉励之志。
中诏申料，罪谴澄雪。
臣等刻肌碎首，未足上报。
臣即以今月十四日，与兄统、浚等诣公车门拜表谢恩。
伏度奏御之日，暂经天听。
此月二十日，忽被兰台禁止符，以统蒙宥，恩出非常，臣晏然私门，曾不陈谢，复见弹奏，讪辱理尽。
臣始闻此，惶惧狼狈，静而思之，固无怪也。
苟尊势所驱，何所不至，望奉法之直绳，不可得也。
臣以凡才，累荷显重，不能负载析薪，以答万分。
一月之中，奏劾频加，曲之与直，非臣所计。
所愧不能承奉戚属，自陷于此。
translation: 
Remain silent and wait for the execution letter.
The ancients said that if you follow people's wishes, you will be rich, but if you go against people's wishes, you will be unlucky. This is absolutely true. Today I believe it.
Therefore, although the officials concerned are fair, they cannot use the law to unjustly accuse people. Although they are unjustly accused and slandered, they cannot help but admit defeat.
Fortunately, Your Majesty is attentive to all directions and discerns every detail. He remembers the merits and virtues of our late father and understands our diligence and loyalty.
He personally issued an edict and appealed to the court, and the charges were clarified.
Our broken bones are not enough to repay the kindness.
On the 14th of this month, I waited at the bus door with my brothers Shi Tong and Shi Jun to express our gratitude.
I thought that when the time came to play, the emperor would soon hear it.
On the 20th of this month, I suddenly received a ban from Lantai, saying that Shi Tong was pardoned, which was an unusual grace, but I actually stayed at home without expressing my gratitude, and was impeached again. The ridicule and humiliation were unreasonable.
When I first heard these words, I was frightened and uneasy, but when I calmed down and thought about it, it was not surprising at all.
There is nothing that cannot be done when driven by noble and powerful people, and it is impossible to expect impartial enforcement of the law.
With my unremarkable talents, I shouldered heavy responsibilities many times and was unable to pull a cart and chop firewood just to repay the unexpected.
Over the past month, impeachment memorials have been thrown at us frequently, and I don’t care about them anymore.
What I am ashamed of is that I cannot flatter my relatives and I am in trouble.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
不媚于灶，实愧王孙，《随巢子》称 明君之德，察情为上，察事次之 。
所怀具经圣听，伏待罪黜，无所多言。
由是事解。
累迁散骑常侍、侍中。
武帝以崇功臣子，有干局，深器重之。
元康初，杨骏辅政，大开封赏，多树党援。
崇与散骑郎蜀郡何攀共立议，奏于惠帝曰： 陛下圣德光被，皇灵启祚，正位东宫，二十余年，道化宣流，万国归心。
今承洪基，此乃天授。
至于班赏行爵，优于泰始革命之初。
不安一也。
吴会僭逆，几于百年，边境被其荼毒，朝廷为之旰食。
先帝决独断之聪，奋神武之略，荡灭逋寇，易于摧枯。
然谋臣猛将，犹有致思竭力之效。
而今恩泽之封，优于灭吴之功。
不安二也。
上天眷祐，实在大晋，卜世之数，未知其纪。
今之开制，当垂于后。
若尊卑无差，有爵必进，数世之后，莫非公侯。
不安三也。
臣等敢冒陈闻。
窃谓泰始之初，及平吴论功，制度名牒，皆悉具存。
纵不能远遵古典，尚当依准旧事。
书奏，弗纳。
translation: 
If you don't curry favor with the powerful, you are really ashamed of Wang Sun. "Sui Chao Zi" explains the character of the king, first understand the situation, and then understand the situation.
Everything I think of is in line with holiness. I am waiting for punishment. There is nothing more I can say.
Thanks to this table, things work out.
Gradually he was promoted to serve as a regular attendant and an attendant on Sanqi.
Emperor Wu thought highly of Shi Chong because he was the son of a meritorious official and was talented.
In the early years of Yuankang, Yang Jun assisted in government affairs, awarded many rewards and established many party members.
Shi Chong and San Qi Lang He Pan of Shu County jointly formulated their opinions and reported to Emperor Hui: Your Majesty's holy virtue shines in all directions, the emperor's spirit opened Fu Zuo, and he became the prince of Shu Palace. For more than 20 years, moral education was spread and all countries surrendered.
Now I have inherited a grand inheritance, which is a gift from God.
As for the awards and titles awarded, they are more generous than at the beginning of the Taishi Revolution.
This is the first point of uneasiness.
Wu Hui was arrogant and rebellious for almost a hundred years. The border was damaged by them and the court was too busy to eat on time.
The late emperor, with his decisive wisdom and powerful strategies, swept away and eliminated the fleeing enemies, just like destroying the dead.
However, the fierce advisers and generals still have their own merits.
Nowadays, the reward for Enze is more generous than the reward for reducing Wu.
This is the second point of uneasiness.
God's favor and help are indeed in Da Jin, and Da Jin has been prosperous for countless generations.
The system created now should be passed on to future generations.
If there is no difference between superiority and inferiority, and those who have a title must be given a title, then after a few generations, no one will be a prince.
This is the third point of uneasiness.
We take the liberty of stating what we have heard.
We believe that from the beginning of the Taishi year to the time of the pacification of Wu, all the merits and official documents of the system have been preserved.
Even if you cannot follow the ancient laws, you should still follow the old laws of modern times.
The document was submitted but was not accepted.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
出为南中郎将、荆州刺史，领南蛮校尉，加鹰扬将军。
崇在南中，得鸩鸟雏，以与后军将军王恺。
时制，鸩鸟不得过江，为司隶校尉傅祗所纠，诏原之，烧鸩于都街。
崇颖悟有才气，而任侠无行检。
在荆州，劫远使商客，致富不赀。
征为大司农，以征书未至擅去官免。
顷之，拜太仆，出为征虏将军，假节、监徐州诸军事，镇下邳。
崇有别馆在河阳之金谷，一名梓泽，送者倾都，帐饮于此焉。
至镇，与徐州刺史高诞争酒相侮，为军司所奏，免官。
复拜卫尉，与潘岳谄事贾谧。
谧与之亲善，号曰 二十四友 。
广城君每出，崇降车路左，望尘而拜，其卑佞如此。
财产丰积，室宇宏丽。
translation: 
He served as general of Nanzhonglang, governor of Jingzhou, captain of Nanman school, and general of Yingyang.
When Shi Chong was in the south, he got a small bird and gave it to General Gong Kai of the rear army.
Under the system at that time, the poisonous bird was not allowed to cross Kuang Liao. He was impeached by the Sili captain for being a witch. The emperor forgave him and burned the poisonous bird to death on the streets of the capital.
Shi Chong was intelligent and talented, but he acted recklessly and misbehaved.
In Huicong, they robbed envoys and merchants who came quickly, and gained countless wealth.
He was recruited as a senior agricultural officer, but he was dismissed because he left his post without permission before the recruitment documents arrived.
Soon after, he was granted the title of Imperial Servant, and was appointed as General of the Conqueror Army. During holidays, he supervised the military affairs of Xuzhou and guarded Gongpi.
Shi Chong had another residence in Jingu, also known as Zize, in Heyang. People from all over the city saw him off and set up a tent here to drink.
When he arrived at his post, he and Gao Dan, the governor of Xuzhou, insulted each other due to a drinking quarrel and were reported by the military commander to be dismissed from their official posts.
He was also appointed as a guard, and he flattered Pan Yue and bought rice cakes.
Buying is friendly to him and is known as the "Twenty-Four Friends".
Every time Guangcheng Jun went out, Shi Chong got off the car and walked to the left side of the road, bowing to Che Chen. He was so humble and flattering.
The property is very large and the houses are gorgeous.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
后房百数，皆曳纨绣，珥金翠。丝竹尽当时之选，庖膳穷水陆之珍。
与贵戚王恺、羊琇之徒以奢靡相尚。
恺以台澳釜，崇以蜡代薪。
恺作紫丝布步障四十里，崇作锦步障五十里以敌之。
崇涂屋以椒，恺用赤石脂。
崇、恺争豪如此。
武帝每助恺，尝以珊瑚树赐之，高二尺许，枝柯扶疏，世所罕比。
恺以示崇，崇便以铁如意击之，应手而碎。
恺既惋惜，又以为嫉己之宝，声色方厉。
崇曰： 不足多恨，今还卿。
乃命左右悉取珊瑚树，有高三四尺者六七株，条干绝俗，光彩曜日，如恺比者甚众。
恺忄兄然自失矣。崇为客作豆粥，咄嗟便办。
每冬，得韭萍齑。
尝与恺出游，争入洛城，崇牛迅若飞禽，恺绝不能及。
恺每以此三事为根，乃密货崇帐下问其所以。
答云： 豆至难煮，豫作熟末，客来，但作白粥以投之耳。
韭萍齑是捣韭根杂以麦苗耳。
牛奔不迟，良由驭者逐不及反制之，可听蹁辕则駃矣。
translation: 
There were hundreds of wives and concubines, all wearing silk and gold and jade, using the best musical instruments of the time, and eating delicacies from all over the world.
Comparing with people like Wang Kai and Yang You, the royal relatives, they compare themselves with luxury.
Wang Kai used sugar paste to wash the pot and used wax as firewood.
Wang Kai used purple silk cloth to make a screen forty miles long, and Shi Chong used brocade to make a screen fifty miles long to match.
Huya used pepper to paint the house, and Wang Kai used red weathered stone.
This is how Wang Kai and Wang Kai fight for wealth.
Emperor Wu often supported Wang Kai and once gave him a coral tree, which was about two feet high and had staggered branches, which was rare in the world.
Wang Kai showed it to Husai, who struck it with Tie Ruyi and it shattered.
Wang Kai felt sorry for each other, but also felt that they were jealous of each other's treasures.
Shi Chong said: "It's not worth the regret. I will compensate you today."
So he ordered everyone to fetch all the coral trees from their homes. There were six or seven of them three or four feet high, with good trunks and brilliant brilliance. There were many like Wang Kai.
If Wang Kai missed something, Shi Chong made bean porridge for the guests. He ordered it to be cooked immediately.
Every winter, pickles are made with leeks.
Once on a trip with Wang Kai, they competed to enter the Robbery Castle first. The cattle that were crossing each other were as fast as birds, and Wang Kai could never catch up.
Yu Kai often regretted these three things, so he secretly bribed Shi Sai's men to ask him the reason.
He replied: It is extremely difficult to boil beans. Make the minced beans in advance. When guests come, you only need to cook the porridge and put the cooked minced beans on it.
Chive Jiangkui is made by pounding chive roots and adding wheat seedlings.
The cow runs slowly only because the driver does not drive it properly and restricts it. It can run as fast as it can if it is allowed to run wildly.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
于是悉从之，遂争长焉。
崇后知之，因杀所告者。
尝与王敦入太学，见颜回、原宪之象，顾而叹曰： 若与之同升孔堂，去人何必有间。
敦曰： 不知余人云何，子贡去卿差近。
崇正色曰： 士当身名俱泰，何至甕牖哉！
其立意类此。
刘舆兄弟少时为王恺所嫉，恺召之宿，因欲坑之。
崇素与舆等善，闻当有变，夜驰诣恺，问二刘所在，恺迫卒不得隐。
崇径进于后斋索出，同车而去。
语曰： 年少何以轻就人宿！
舆深德之。
及贾谧诛，崇以党与免官。
时赵王伦专权，崇甥欧阳建与伦有隙。
崇有妓曰绿珠，美而艳，善吹笛。
孙秀使人求之。
崇时在金谷别馆，方登凉台，临清流，妇人侍侧。
使者以告。
translation: 
So they all obeyed his words and gained dignity.
Shi Chong later learned the reason and killed the informer.
Once he entered the Imperial Academy with Wang Dun and saw the portraits of Yan Hui and Yuan Xian. While looking at them, he sighed and said, "If you go to the Jiezi Hall with them, why should you be different from others?"
Wang Dun said: I don’t know what other people said, but Zigong is closer to you.
Shi Chong said with a serious expression: A scholar should be distinguished both in body and reputation. Why should he be so poor that he uses a broken urn as a window?
His concept is roughly the same.
When the Liu Yu brothers were young, they were jealous of Wang Kai. Wang Kai invited them to stay overnight and wanted to take the opportunity to bury them alive.
Shi Chong had always been friendly with Liu Yu and others. When he heard that something was going to happen, he drove to Wang Kai overnight and asked where the Liu brothers were. Wang Kai was in a hurry and had no time to hide.
Shi Chong went directly into the back room to find them and left in the same car.
He said to them: How can young people stay overnight at other people's homes?
Liu Yu was very grateful to him.
Jia Mi was executed, and Shi Chong was removed from office because he was a comrade.
At that time, King Zhao Sima Lun was in power, and Shi Chong's nephew Ouyang Jian had conflicts with Sima Lun.
There was a prostitute named Luzhu in Shi Chong who was beautiful and good at playing the flute.
Sun Xiu sent someone to ask for her.
Shi Chong was at the villa in Jingu. He was on the balcony, facing the clear water, with the woman waiting beside him.
The messenger came to ask for someone.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
崇尽出其婢妾数十人以示之，皆蕴兰麝，被罗縠，曰： 在所择。
使者曰： 君侯服御丽则丽矣，然本受命指索绿珠，不识孰是？
崇勃然曰： 绿珠吾所爱，不可得也。
使者曰： 君侯博古通今，察远照迩，愿加三思。
崇曰： 不然。
使者出而又反，崇竟不许。
秀怒，乃劝伦诛崇、建。
崇、建亦潜知其计，乃与黄门郎潘岳阴劝淮南王允、齐王冏以图伦、秀。
秀觉之，遂矫诏收崇及潘岳、欧阳建等。
崇正宴于楼上，介士到门。
崇谓绿珠曰： 我今为尔得罪。
绿珠泣曰： 当效死于官前。
因自投于楼下而死。
崇曰： 吾不过流徙交、广耳。
及车载诣东市，崇乃叹曰： 奴辈利吾家财。
收者答曰： 知财致害，何不早散之？
崇不能答。
崇母兄妻子无少长皆被害，死者十五人，崇时年五十二。
初，崇家稻米饭在地，经宿皆化为螺，时人以为族灭之应。
有司簿阅崇水碓三余区，苍头八百余人，他珍宝货贿田宅称是。
及惠帝复阼，诏以卿礼葬之。
translation: 
Shi Chong called out all his dozens of maids and concubines to show the envoys. They were all smelling of fragrance and wearing silk clothes. Shi Chong said: Pick whatever you want.
The messenger said: The king's maids and concubines are beautiful, but the order I accepted asked for green beads. I don't know which one is it?
Shi Chong was furious and said: Luzhu is the one I love, and you can't get it.
The messenger said: Your Majesty is knowledgeable about the past and the present, and can see clearly from far and near. I hope you will think twice.
Shi Chong said: No.
The envoy went out and came back, but Shi Chong still refused.
Sun Xiu was furious and persuaded Sima Lun to kill Shi Chong and Ouyang Jian.
Shi Chong and Ouyang Jian also secretly knew Sun Xiu's plan, so they secretly persuaded Huainan King Sima Yun and Qi King Sima to come to Pu to seek advice from Sima Lun and Sun Xiu.
When Sun Xiu noticed this, he falsely claimed that the emperor had issued an edict to arrest Shi Chong, Pan Yue, Ouyang Jian and others.
Shi Chong was having a banquet upstairs when the soldier arrived at the door.
Shi Chong said to Lu Zhu: I am going to get you guilty today.
Luzhu cried and said: I should die in front of you in retribution.
So he jumped downstairs and died.
Shi Chong said: I was just exiled to Jiao and Guangzhou.
When the car took him to Dongshi, Shi Chongcai sighed and said: That slave is interested in my wealth.
His captor replied: Knowing that wealth can bring disaster, why didn't you distribute it early?
Shi Chong had nothing to say.
Shi Chong's mother, brothers, wives and children were all killed, regardless of age. Fifteen people died. Shi Chong was fifty-two years old at the time.
At first, Shi Chong's rice fell on the ground and turned into snails overnight. People at the time thought it was a sign of family extinction.
Officials checked the books and found that Shi Chong had more than 30 water-powered rice milling facilities, more than 800 slaves, and other treasures, properties and houses equivalent to this.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne again and issued an edict to bury Shi Chong according to Qing's rites.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
封崇从孙演为乐陵公。
苞曾孙朴字玄真，为人谨厚，无他材艺，没于胡。
石勒以与朴同姓，俱出河北，引朴为宗室，特加优宠，位至司徒。
欧阳建字坚石，世为冀方右族。
雅有理思，才藻美赡，擅名北州。
时人为之语曰： 渤海赫赫，欧阳坚石。
辟公府，历山阳令、尚书郎、冯翊太守，甚得时誉。
及遇祸，莫不悼惜之，年三十余。
临命作诗，文甚哀楚。
孙铄字巨鄴，河内怀人也。
少乐为县吏，太守吴奋转以为主簿。
铄自微贱登纲纪，时僚大姓犹不与铄同坐。
奋大怒，遂荐铄为司隶都官从事。
司隶校尉刘讷甚知赏之。
时奋又荐铄于大司马石苞，苞辟为掾。
铄将应命，行达许昌，会台已密遣轻军袭苞。
于时汝阴王镇许，铄过谒之。
王先识铄，以乡里之情私告铄曰： 无与祸。
铄即出，即驰诣寿春，为苞画计，苞赖而获免。
迁尚书郎，在职驳议十有余事，为当时所称。
史臣曰：若夫经为帝师，郑冲于焉无愧；孝为德本，王祥所以当仁；何曾善其亲而及其亲之党者也。
夏禹恭俭，殷因损益。
牲牢服用，各有品章，诸侯不恆牛，命士不恆豕。
translation: 
Feng Shichong's great-nephew Shi Yan was named Leling Gong.
Shi Bao's great-grandson Shi Pu, named Xuan Zhen, was a respectful and kind man with no other talents. He died in a barbaric area.
Because Shi Le and Shi Pu had the same surname and were both from the north of the Yellow River, he regarded Shi Pu as a clan member, so he treated Shi Pu with special privileges and favored him, and he was promoted to Situ.
Ouyang Jian, whose courtesy name is Jianshi, has been a wealthy family in Jizhou for generations.
Elegant, talented, and eloquent, he is famous in the northern states and counties.
People at that time commented on him: Ouyang Jianshi is famous in the Bohai area.
He was recruited to the palace and served successively as Shanyang Ling, Shangshu Lang, and Feng Yi Grand Administrator. He was highly praised by people at that time.
When disaster strikes him, no one will fail to mourn and pity him. He was in his thirties.
He wrote poems before his death, which were very sad and desolate.
Sun Shuo, courtesy name Juye, was a native of Huaidi, Hanoi.
When he was young, he was willing to serve as a county official. Wu Fen, the prefect, made him the chief official.
Sun Shuo rose from a humble position to an official career, and the bureaucrats at that time were still unwilling to sit with him.
Wu Fen was furious and recommended him to serve as the governor of Sili.
Liu Na, the captain of Sili School, appreciated him very much.
At that time, Wu Fen recommended Sun Shuo to the Grand Sima Shi Bao, who recruited him as an official.
Sun Shuo was about to accept the appointment and traveled to Xuchang, just when the imperial court had secretly dispatched light troops to attack Shi Bao.
At that time, King Ruyin was guarding Xuchang, and Sun Shuo went to see him.
King Ruyin knew Sun Shuo before, and he told Sun Shuo privately as a fellow villager: Don't get involved in disasters.
After Sun Shuo left, he rushed to Shouchun to plan for Shi Bao. Fortunately, Shi Bao was able to avoid disaster thanks to him.
He was promoted to Shangshulang, and he refuted more than ten petitions by others while in office, and was highly praised at the time.
Shi Chen said: If we talk about being the emperor's teacher, then Zheng Chong deserves it; filial piety is the foundation of morality, so Wang Xiang can be regarded as benevolent; how could he ever be kind to his relatives and extend it to his relatives?
Xia Yu was frugal and simple, while the Yin Shang Dynasty increased and decreased.
When used for sacrifices, each has its own hierarchy. Lords do not always use oxen, and scholars do not always use pigs.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
御而骄奢，其关乎治政。
乘时立制，莫不由之。
石崇学乃多闻，情乖寡悔，超四豪而取富，喻五侯而竞爽。
春畦靡，列于凝沍之晨；锦障逶迤，亘以山川之外。
撞钟舞女，流宕忘归，至于金谷含悲，吹楼将坠，所谓高蝉处乎轻阴，不知螳良袭其后也。
赞曰：郑冲含素，王祥迟暮。
百行斯融，双飞天路。
何石殊操，芳饪标奇。
帝风流靡，崇心载驰。
矜奢不极，寇害成赀。
邦分身坠，乐往哀随。
translation: 
Stopping luxury is related to the governance of the country.
Take advantage of the opportunity to formulate a system, and there will be no failure to follow it.
Shi Chong was well-educated, had a surly temperament and rarely repented. He showed wealth beyond all wealthy families, and competed with princes to win.
The bean leaves in the spring vegetable field can be obtained in the freezing morning; the brocade barrier winds and connects to the mountains and rivers beyond.
The bell-ringing dancer lingers, but as for the death in the Golden Valley, the banquet place is about to crash. As the saying goes, the cicada under the tall tree does not know that the mantis is attacking behind.
Praising: Zheng Chong was simple in nature, and Wang Xiang became an official in his later years.
Various qualities merge and walk together on the path guided by God.
He Zeng and Shi Bao had different conduct and strange lives.
The emperor's style was luxurious, and Shi Chong pursued him wholeheartedly.
Arrogance and luxury have no end, and assets cause harm.
Nations divide and destroy themselves, joy and sorrow accompany them.


