Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘毅，字仲雄，东莱掖人。
汉城阳景王章之后。
父喈，丞相属。
毅幼有孝行，少厉清节，然好臧否人物，王公贵人望风惮之。
侨居平阳，太守杜恕请为功曹，沙汰郡吏百余人，三魏称焉。
为之语曰： 但闻刘功曹，不闻杜府君。
魏末，本郡察孝廉，辟司隶都官从事，京邑肃然。
毅将弹河南尹，司隶不许，曰： 攫兽之犬，鼷鼠蹈其背。
毅曰： 既能攫兽，又能杀鼠，何损于犬！
投传而去。
同郡王基荐毅于公府，曰： 毅方正亮直，介然不群，言不苟合，行不苟容。
往日侨仕平阳，为郡股肱，正色立朝，举纲引墨，硃紫有分，《郑》、《卫》不杂，孝弟著于邦族，忠贞效于三魏。
昔孙阳取骐骥于吴坂，秦穆拔百里于商旅。毅未遇知己，无所自呈。
前已口白，谨复申请。
太常郑袤举博士，文帝辟为相国掾，辞疾，积年不就。
时人谓毅忠于魏氏，而帝怒其顾望，将加重辟。
毅惧，应命，转主薄。
武帝受禅，为尚书郎、驸马都尉，迁散骑常侍、国子祭酒。
帝以毅忠蹇正直，使掌谏官。
转城门校尉，迁太仆，拜尚书，坐事免官。
咸宁初，复为散骑常侍、博士祭酒。
转司隶校尉，纠正豪右，京师肃然。
司部守令望风投印绶者甚众，时人以毅方之诸葛丰、盖宽饶。
皇太子朝，鼓吹将入东掖门，毅以为不敬，止之于门外，奏劾保傅以下。
诏赦之，然后得入。
帝尝南郊，礼毕，喟然问毅曰： 卿以朕方汉何帝也？ 对曰： 可方桓、灵。
帝曰： 吾虽德不及古人，犹克己为政。
又平吴会，混一天下。
方之桓、灵，其已甚乎！
对曰： 桓、灵卖官，钱入官库；陛下卖官，钱入私门。
translation: 
Liu Yi, whose courtesy name is Zhongxiong, is from Ye, Donglai.
Descendants of Liu Zhang, King of Yangjing, Seoul.
His father, Liu Zhe, was the Prime Minister.
Liu Yi was filial when he was young, and he honed his noble integrity in his youth, but he liked to comment on people, and he was afraid of princes and nobles.
Qi lived in Yang, and the prefect Du Shu asked him to serve as a meritorious official. He eliminated more than a hundred county officials and was praised by the people of the Three Wei Dynasties.
Commenting on him, he said: I only heard about Liu Gongcao, but not about Du Fujun.
At the end of the Wei Dynasty, Xiaolian was recommended by the county and requisitioned as Si Li Duguan, and the capital was in order.
Liu Yi was about to impeach Yin of Henan, but Sili disagreed, saying: When a dog attacks an animal, a mole will kick its back.
Liu Yi said: It can not only catch animals, but also kill rats, so what harm does it do to dogs?
Throw down the documents and leave.
Wang Ji of Tongjun recommended Liu Yi to the government, saying: Liu Yi is upright, honest, extraordinary, and does not cater to others with his words and deeds.
He used to be an official in Pingyang and an important official in the county. In the government office, he was dignified and serious, well-organized, and distinguished among nobles. He was not chaotic in "Zheng" and "Wei". He was famous in the state and county for his filial piety and was imitated in the Three Wei Dynasties because of his loyalty.
In the past, Sun Yang got a horse from Wu Ban, and Duke Mu of Qin used Baili Xi among the merchants. Liu Yi had never met a confidant and did not recommend himself.
Having said it verbally before, apply again with caution.
Taichang Zheng Miao recommended him to be a doctor, and Emperor Wen appointed him as a prime minister. He declined due to illness and did not serve as an official for many years.
People said that Liu Yi was loyal to the Wei family, but the emperor hated him for being nostalgic for the old dynasty and would punish him with death.
Liu Yi was frightened, so he responded to the call and was appointed as the chief registrar.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and became the emperor, and made Liu Yi the minister and the prince-in-law.
Emperor Wu believed that Liu Yi was loyal and upright, and asked him to serve as an admonishment officer.
He was changed to the city gate school captain, promoted to servant, and appointed minister. He was dismissed from office because of his crimes.
In the early years of Xianning, he offered wine to the regular attendants and doctors of Sanqi again.
He was re-appointed as a lieutenant of Sili school, and he promoted the powerful families and brought order to the capital.
Seeing the situation, many officials put down their official seals. People compared him to Zhuge Feng and Gai Kuanrao.
When the crown prince entered the court, the band was about to enter Dongye Gate. Liu Yi thought it was not serious, so he blocked them out and impeached officials below the crown prince Baofu.
The edict pardoned them and allowed them to enter.
The emperor once went to the southern suburbs to worship heaven. After the ceremony, he sighed to Liu Yi and said: Which emperor of the Han Dynasty do you compare me to? Liu Yi replied: Comparable to Emperor Huan and Emperor Ling.
The emperor said: Although my virtue is not as good as that of the ancients, I still control myself and govern myself.
He also pacified Wu Hui and unified the world.
Isn’t it too much to compare me to Emperors Huan and Ling?
Liu Yi replied: The second emperor sold his official position, and the money went into the official treasury; Your Majesty sold his official position, and the money went into his private family.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以此言之，殆不如也。
帝大笑曰： 桓灵之世，不闻此言。
今有直臣，故不同也。
散骑常侍邹湛进曰： 世谈以陛下比汉文帝，人心犹不多同。
昔冯唐答文帝，云不能用颇牧而文帝怒，今刘毅言犯顺而陛下欢。
然以此相校，圣德乃过之矣。
帝曰： 我平天下而不封禅，焚雉头裘，行布衣礼，卿初无言。
今于小事，何见褒之甚？
湛曰： 臣闻猛兽在田，荷戈而出，凡人能之。
蜂虿作于怀袖，勇夫为之惊骇，出于意外故也。
夫君臣有自然之尊卑，言语有自然之逆顺。向刘毅始言，臣等莫不变色。
陛下发不世之诏，出思虑之表，臣之喜庆，不亦宜乎！
在职六年，迁尚书左仆射。
时龙见武库井中，帝亲观之，有喜色。
百官将贺，毅独表曰： 昔龙降郑时门之外，子产不贺。
龙降夏庭，沫流不禁，卜藏其漦，至周幽王，祸衅乃发。
《易》称 潜龙勿用，阳在下也。
证据旧典，无贺龙之礼。
诏报曰： 正德未修，诚未有以膺受嘉祥。
省来示，以为瞿然。
贺庆之事，宜详依典义，动静数示。
而毅乃引衰世妖异，以疑今之吉祥。
又以龙在井为潜，皆失其意。
潜之为言，隐而不见。
今龙彩质明焕，示人以物，非潜之谓也。毅应推处。
诏不听。
后阴气解而复合，毅上言： 必有阿党之臣，奸以事君者，当诛而不诛故也。
毅以魏立九品，权时之制，未见得人，而有八损，乃上疏曰：臣闻：立政者，以官才为本，官才有三难，而兴替之所由也。
人物难知，一也；爱憎难防，二也；情伪难明，三也。
今立中正，定九品，高下任意，荣辱在手。
translation: 
For that matter, not as good as them.
The emperor laughed and said: Huan and Lingshi did not hear this.
Now there are direct ministers, so it is different.
Zou Zhan, the regular attendant of Sanqi, remonstrated and said: People still have objections when comparing His Majesty to Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty.
In the past, Feng Tang replied to Emperor Wen that Lian Po and Li Mu could not be used, and Emperor Wen was angry. Now Liu Yi has offended His Majesty, and His Majesty is happy.
In comparison, holiness surpasses him.
The emperor said: "I brought peace to the world without enfeoffing the emperor. I burned my pheasant's hair and fur, and performed commoner rituals. You didn't tell me at the beginning."
Why are we overly praising small things today?
Zou Zhan said: Everyone can do it if there are fierce beasts in the field and fight against them.
The bee vine appeared in the arms, and Yongfu was frightened by it. This was due to accident.
It is natural for a king to be superior and his ministers to be humble, and this should also be the case when speaking. When Liu Yi started talking, all the ministers turned pale.
His Majesty issued a rare order, which was unexpected. We are happy. Isn’t it okay?
After six years in office, he was promoted to Minister Zuopushe.
At that time, the dragon appeared in the arsenal well, and the emperor went to see it in person, with a happy face.
When hundreds of officials were about to go to congratulate him, Liu Yi reported alone: ​​"In the past, the dragon descended outside the gate of the state of Zheng, and there was no congratulation on the birth of a child."
The dragon descended in the Xia Dynasty's courtyard, salivating, and the fortune teller told him to hide it. To King You of Zhou Dynasty, disaster occurred.
"Book of Changes" says that the reason why the dragon lurks and does not perform its functions is because the yang energy is low.
Examining the old scriptures, there is no ceremony for congratulating the dragon.
The edict replied: If you do not cultivate your righteousness, you will indeed not be able to accept auspiciousness.
I feel horrified when I see your above table.
When celebrating, one should act carefully and according to the etiquette.
Shang Shulang Liu Han and others believed: The dragon is cyan with white patterns, which is a sign of Yanwu's literary practice in the Jin Dynasty. But Liu Yi used the evil spirits of the declining world to doubt the current good fortune.
It is also incorrect to think that the dragon in the well is a hidden dragon.
Hidden means invisible.
Nowadays, the dragon is brightly colored, showing its shape to people, not hiding. Type cuttings should be investigated and dealt with.
Shao is not sure.
Later, the Yin Qi dispersed and then reunited, and the seal tunnel said: It must be because the ministers formed cliques for personal gain and served the king cunningly, so they should have been killed but were not killed.
Liu Yi believed that Wei's establishment of the nine-rank Zhongzheng system was an expedient system that failed to select talents and had eight disadvantages. So Shangshu said: I heard that rulers should appoint officials based on their talents. This matter has three difficulties, but it is related to the rise and fall of the country.
Characters are difficult to know, which is one; love and hate are difficult to guard against, which is two; authenticity is difficult to distinguish, which is three.
Nowadays, Zhongzheng has been established to evaluate the nine grades. You can be high or low at will, with honor and disgrace in hand.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
操人主之威福，夺天朝之权势。爱憎决于心，情伪由于己。公无考校之负，私无告讦之忌。
用心百态，求者万端。
廉让之风灭，苟且之欲成。
天下讻讻，但争品位，不闻推让，窃为圣朝耻之。
夫名状以当才为清，品辈以得实为平，安危之要，不可不明。
清平者，政化之美也；枉滥者，乱败之恶也，不可不察。
然人才异能，备体者衅。
器有大小，达有早晚。
前鄙后修，宜受日新之报；抱正违时，宜有质直之称；度远阙小，宜得殊俗之状；任直不饰，宜得清实之誉；行寡才优，宜获器任之用。
是以三仁殊途而同归，四子异行而均义。
陈平、韩信笑侮于邑里，而收功于帝王；屈原、伍胥不容于人主，而显名于竹帛，是笃论之所明也。
今之中正，不精才实，务依党利，不均称尺，备随爱憎。
所欲与者，获虚以成誉；所欲下者，吹毛以求疵。
高下逐强弱，是非由爱憎。
随世兴衰，不顾才实，衰则削下，兴则扶上，一人之身，旬日异状。
或以货赂自通，或以计协登进，附托者必达，守道者困悴。
无报于身，必见割夺。有私于己，必得其欲。
是以上品无寒门，下品无势族。
暨时有之，皆曲有故。
慢主罔时，实为乱源。
损政之道一也。
置州都者，取州里清议，咸所归服，将以镇异同，一言议。
不谓一人之身，了一州之才，一人不审便坐之。
若然，自仲尼以上，至于庖牺，莫不有失，则皆不堪，何独责于中人者哉！
若殊不修，自可更选。
今重其任而轻其人，所立品格，还访刁攸。
translation: 
There is the power of the emperor and the power of the court. Love, hate, truth and falsehood all depend on oneself, one should not be responsible for public assessment, and one should not be afraid of being reported privately.
Use all your scheming to infiltrate all parties.
The atmosphere of honesty and humility disappeared, and the custom of muddling along was formed.
The world is in chaos. They only strive for rank and official position. There is no mention of humility. I am ashamed of the Holy Dynasty.
When describing a situation, it is fair to grasp talents, and when evaluating people, it is fair to seek truth from facts. The key to national security must not be unclear.
Integrity and fairness are the bright side of political education; distorting facts is the dark side of chaos and destruction, and we must be aware of it.
However, everyone has his or her own strengths, and few are all-rounders.
Only people have their own size, and fame comes sooner or later.
Those who have despicable virtues in the past and practice good deeds in the future should be rewarded with reform; those who stick to the right path and do not follow the customs of the times should be praised for their integrity; those who have long-term plans and make minor mistakes should be evaluated differently from ordinary people; those who are honest and upright without being false should be praised as honest and faithful; those who have outstanding virtues and excellent talents should be reused.
Therefore, the three benevolent men came to the same destination through different paths, and the four sons traveled in different ways, but they were all in harmony with each other.
Chen Ping and Han Xin were ridiculed and insulted in their hometowns, but they made great contributions to the emperor; Qu Yuan and Wu Zixu were not tolerated by the emperor, but their names remained in history. This is what appropriate comments should show.
Today's Zhongzheng does not look at real talents and knowledge, but only relies on gang interests; it does things unfairly and only based on personal feelings.
If you want to give, you will lie to help him become famous; if you want to let him, you will find fault.
The level of rank changes with the strength of the power, and right and wrong are determined by personal likes and dislikes.
Following the rise and fall of the world, regardless of true talent and learning, he will be lowered when he is weak and raised when he is prosperous. The same person will change within ten days.
Either bribe oneself to gain access, or go with the planners in order to be promoted. Those who rely on others will surely achieve their goals, while those who abide by principles will be embarrassed and sad.
If it is not good for oneself, it will be harmed; if it is good for oneself, it will be gained.
Therefore, no high-ranking official comes from a poor family, and no low-ranking official comes from a powerful family.
Even if it is possible, there are other reasons.
To deceive the emperor and deceive the world is actually the source of chaos.
This is one of the shortcomings of the Nine-Rank Zhongzheng System.
Set up the Zhongzheng and use the clear deliberation of the state. Everyone will obey. You can suppress the dissatisfied and unify the opinions.
It does not mean that one person can know the talents of a state. If he does not know the person being criticized, he cannot be judged.
In this way, since Confucius and above, everyone has made mistakes when it comes to slaughtering and sacrificing, but they are all wrong, so why only blame ordinary people!
If it's particularly bad, you can naturally choose again.
Now he attaches great importance to his authority but despises his person. After establishing the hierarchy, he returns to visit Diao You.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
攸非州里之所归，非职分之所置。
今访之，归正于所不服，决事于所不职，以长谗构之源，以生乖争之兆，似非立都之本旨，理俗之深防也。
主者既善刁攸，攸之所下而复选以二千石，已有数人。
刘良上攸之所下，石公罪攸之所行，驳违之论横于州里，嫌雠之隙结于大臣。
夫桑妾之讼，祸及吴、楚；斗鸡之变，难兴鲁邦。
况乃人伦交争而部党兴，刑狱滋生而祸根结。
损政之道二也。本立格之体，将谓人伦有序，若贯鱼成次也。
为九品者，取下者为格，谓才德有优劣，伦辈有首尾。
今之中正，务自远者，则抑割一国，使无上人；秽劣下比，则拔举非次，并容其身。
公以为格，坐成其私。
君子无大小之怨，官政无绳奸之防。
使得上欺明主，下乱人伦。
乃使优劣易地，首尾倒错。推贵异之器，使在凡品之下，负戴不肖，越在成人之首。
损政之道三也。
陛下践阼，开天地之德，弘不讳之诏，纳忠直之言，以览天下之情，太平之基，不世之法也。
然尝罚，自王公以至于庶人，无不加法。
置中正，委以一国之重，无尝罚之防。
人心多故，清平者寡，故怨讼者众。
听之则告讦无已，禁绝则侵枉无极，与其理讼之烦，犹愈侵枉之害。
今禁讼诉，则杜一国之口，培一人之势，使得纵横，无所顾惮。
诸受枉者抱怨积直，独不蒙天地无私之德，而长壅蔽于邪人之铨。
使上明不下照，下情不上闻。
损政之道四也。
昔在前圣之世，欲敦风俗，镇静百姓，隆乡党之义，崇六亲之行，礼教庠序以相率，贤不肖于是见矣。
然乡老书其善以献天子，司马论其能以官于职，有司考绩以明黜陟。
故天下之人退而修本，州党有德义，朝廷有公正，浮华邪佞无所容厝。
translation: 
He was neither surrendered by the state nor appointed by authority.
Now ask him, let the correct submit to the disobedient, let the indifferent decide things, thus encouraging slander and creating conflicts. This seems not to be the original intention of establishing Zhongzheng, but to be more vigilant in governing the world.
The person in charge was good with Diao You, and there were already several people who had Diao You downgraded and were selected as two thousand stones.
Liu Liang raised the rank that Diao You had demoted, and Shi Bao punished Diao You for what he had done. Debate was everywhere in the state, and hatred and resentment was forged among the ministers.
Lawsuits between wives and concubines brought disaster to Wu and Chu; cockfighting incidents brought disaster to Lu.
As a result, there will be moral conflicts and cliques, prisons and prisons will breed, and the root of disaster will be laid.
This is the basis for its shortcomings. The principle of establishing grades is to make human relations orderly, just like skewering fish into order.
The establishment of nine grades and the inclusion of inferior grades means that there are pros and cons in talents and virtues, and there are pros and cons in human relations and seniority.
The current Zhongzheng, who has long-term plans for himself, will suppress one party and make it the highest quality; the promiscuous, despicable and inferior person will be promoted out of order and can accommodate him.
Public grades became private property.
A gentleman has no grudges, and national politics has no measures to punish traitors.
It makes the superiors bully the Ming Lord and the inferiors disrupt human relations.
Therefore, the distinction between good and bad was reversed, noble and outstanding talents were placed below ordinary grades, and those with a reputation for unfilial piety were placed at the forefront.
This is its third drawback.
Your Majesty ascended the throne, opened up the benevolence of heaven and earth, issued the Shao Order to open up the way of speech, adopted loyal words, and surveyed the people's sentiments in the world. This is the foundation of peace and a rare method.
As for rewards and punishments, laws are used to stipulate them from the princes to the common people.
Set up a Zhongzheng and entrust a country with important responsibilities, but there is no preparation for rewards and punishments.
There are many deceitful people in people's hearts, and few people are honest, so there are many people who are resentful and litigious.
If you allow it, the exposure of people's privacy will continue, but if you prohibit it, the violation of innocent people will never end. Although handling the case is cumbersome, it is still better than infringing on innocent people.
Prohibiting litigation now will block the mouth of a country and cultivate the power of one person, allowing him to do whatever he wants without any scruples.
Each of those who were wronged harbored resentment and sincere words, but they did not receive the selfless favor of heaven and earth, and remained under the election of evil and sycophantic people for a long time.
So that the light from above cannot be illuminated from below, and the emotions from below cannot be expressed from above.
This is its fourth drawback.
As early as the Holy Age, if you want to improve the folk customs and appease the people, you must improve the morality of the village, praise the behavior of the six relatives, and make the etiquette schools consistent with each other, so that they can be distinguished from the unworthy.
The village elder wrote down his good deeds to the emperor, Sima awarded him an official position based on his ability, and the relevant departments assessed his performance to decide his promotion or demotion.
Therefore, people in the world retreat and cultivate themselves, there is morality in the countryside, justice in the court, and there is no place for flashy and evil people.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
今一国之士多者千数，或流徙异邦，或取给殊方，面犹不识，况尽其才力！
而中正知与不知，其当品状，采誉于台府，纳毁于流言。
任己则有不识之蔽，听受则有彼此之偏。
所知者以爱憎夺其平，所不知者以人事乱其度；既无乡老纪行之誉，又非朝廷考绩之课；遂使进宫之人，弃近求远，背本逐末。
位以求成，不由行立，品不校功，党誉虚妄。
损政五也。
凡所以立品设状者，求人才以理物也，非虚饰名誉，相为好丑。
虽孝悌之行，不施朝廷，故门外之事，以义断恩。
既以在官，职有大小，事有剧易，各有功报，此人才之实效，功分之所得也。
今则反之，于限当报，虽职之高，还附卑品，无绩于官，而获高叙，是为抑功实而隆虚名也。
上夺天朝考绩之分，下长浮华朋党之士。
损政六也。凡官不同事，人不同能，得其能则成，失其能则败。
今品不状才能之所宜，而以九等为例。
以品取人，或非才能之所长；以状取人，则为本品之所限。
若状得其实，犹品状相妨，系絷选举，使不得精于才宜。
况今九品，所疏则削其长，所亲则饰其短。
徒结白论，以为虚誉，则品不料能，百揆何以得理，万机何以得修？
损政七也。前九品诏书，善恶必书，以为褒贬，当时天下，少有所忌。
今之九品，所下不彰其罪，所上不列其善，废褒贬之义，任爱憎之断，清浊同流，以植其私。
故反违前品，大其形势，以驱动众人，使必归己。
进者无功以表劝，退者无恶以成惩。
惩劝不明，则风俗污浊，天下人焉得不解德行而锐人事？
损政八也。
由此论之，选中正而非其人，授权势而无尝罚，或缺中正而无禁检，故邪党得肆，枉滥纵横。
translation: 
Nowadays, there are thousands of people in a country, some are living in other places, or some are seeking food and clothing in other places. If they don’t recognize their faces, how can they give full play to their talents?
No matter whether you know the truth or you don't know, when it comes time to criticize, you will get a good reputation from the government and a bad reputation from rumors.
If you only believe in yourself, you will be blinded by your lack of understanding, and if you listen to others, you will be limited by each other's limitations.
For people you know, you only rely on love and hate; for people you don't know, you only rely on relationships. It is neither a reputation recorded in the records of the village elders nor an assessment by the imperial court. Therefore, officials are made to abandon the near and seek the distant, abandon the basic and pursue the weak.
Official positions are obtained by begging, not determined by behavior, merit is not assessed when assessing grades, and the flattery of cronies is untrue.
This is its fifth drawback.
Generally speaking, the reason for looking at performance based on rank is to seek talents to govern the people, not to distinguish between good and bad based on reputation.
Filial piety and brotherhood cannot be used in the imperial court, so outside the family, we can only talk about loyalty but not love.
Now that you are an official, your duties and powers may vary, things may be difficult or easy, and each has his or her merits. This is the practicality of a person and the purpose of his or her duties.
Now, on the contrary, when the deadline for reporting merit has come, although the position is very high, it is at a very low level. Those who have no political achievements are given a very high level, and those who have merit are suppressed and those who have merit are worshiped in vain.
On the one hand, the assessment of the imperial court was in name only, on the other hand, it helped people who were not practical and formed cliques. This is its sixth drawback.
The establishment of official positions should be aimed at different things, and people's abilities are also different. If his talents are used, he will succeed, and if he loses his talents, he will fail.
Now, regardless of whether the talent is suitable, just let him ascend to the ninth rank.
Selecting people based on their grades does not mean that they have achieved their talents; selecting people based on their performance is limited by their grades.
If the performance is in line with the actual situation and the grade and performance still interfere with each other, they will be constrained by the election and will not be able to focus on their talents.
What's more, today's Zhongzheng, those who are distant from him will belittle others' strengths, and those who are close to him will cover up others' shortcomings.
If you only talk empty words and think you have a false reputation, then your grade and ability do not match, how can you handle things. This is its seventh drawback.
In the past, the Shaoshu, which was awarded to the ninth grade, must be written about good and evil, and was regarded as praise and blame. At that time, there were few taboos.
Today's Zhengzheng, demotion does not reveal the other party's mistakes, promotion does not list the other party's good deeds, abandons the purpose of praise and criticism, and only relies on emotions, mixing pure and dirty, to achieve personal goals.
Therefore, he violated the early system and created a great momentum to incite everyone and make them all turn to him.
A person who is promoted has no merit to motivate him, and a person who is demoted has no mistakes to punish him.
If rewards and punishments are unclear, the atmosphere will be filthy. How can people in the world not slack off in virtue and concentrate on human affairs?
This is the eighth drawback.
From this point of view, if you establish the right person without choosing the right person, give him power without rewards or punishments, or lack the right person without restraint, evil will be rampant and injustice will be everywhere.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
虽职名中正，实为奸府；事名九品，而有八损。
或恨结于亲亲，猜生于骨肉，当身困于敌雠，子孙离其殃咎。
斯乃历世之患，非徒当今之害也。
是以时主观时立法，防奸消乱，靡有常制，故周因于殷，有所损益。
至于中正九品，上圣古贤皆所不为，岂蔽于此事而有不周哉，将以政化之宜无取于此也。
自魏立以来，未见其得人之功，而生雠薄之累。
毁风败俗，无益于化，古今之失，莫大于此。
愚臣以为宜罢中正，除九品，弃魏氏之弊法，立一代之美制。
疏奏，优诏答之。
后司空卫瓘等亦共表宜省九品，复古乡议里选。
帝竟不施行。
毅夙夜在公，坐而待旦，言议切直，无所曲挠，为朝野之所式瞻。
尝散斋而疾，其妻省之，毅便奏加妻罪而请解斋。
妻子有过，立加杖捶，其公正如此。
然以峭直，故不至公辅。
帝以毅清贫，赐钱三十万，日给米肉。
年七十，告老。
久之，见许，以光禄大夫归第，门施行马，复赐钱百万。
后司徒举毅为青州大中正，尚书以毅悬车致仕，不宜劳以碎务。
陈留相乐安孙尹表曰： 礼，凡卑者执劳，尊得居逸，是顺叙之宜也。
司徒魏舒、司隶校尉严询与毅年齿相近，往者同为散骑常侍，后分授外内之职，资途所经，出处一致。
今询管四十万户州，兼董司百僚，总摄机要，舒所统殷广，兼执九品，铨十六州论议，主者不以为剧。
毅但以知一州，便谓不宜累以碎事，于毅太优，询、舒太劣。
若以前听致仕，不宜复与迁授位者，故光禄大夫郑袤为司空是也。
夫知人则哲，惟帝难之。
translation: 
Although it is called Zhongzheng, it is actually a place of evil; although it is in the ninth level, it has eight harms.
Either it creates hatred among relatives or creates suspicion among flesh and blood. When one is among enemies, one's descendants will avoid harm.
The disaster has been throughout the ages, not just now.
Therefore, there is no unchanging system for the monarch to legislate during the trial to prevent adultery and eliminate chaos. Therefore, the Zhou Dynasty followed the Yin Dynasty, with some additions and subtractions.
At the ninth level of Zhongzheng, the ancient sages did not use it. Could it be that they were blinded by this and were not thorough? They focused on political education and did not use it.
Since the establishment of Wei Dynasty, it has never received any credit from people, but it has brought hatred and unkindness.
Being immoral is not conducive to education. There is no greater mistake in ancient and modern times than sending someone away.
I believe that Zhongzheng should be dismissed, Jiupin should be abolished, Cao Wei's flawed methods should be abandoned, and a better system should be established.
After the memorial, Emperor Youshao answered him.
Later, Sikong Weigan and others jointly suggested that the nine-level Zhongzheng system should be abolished and the ancient village discussion and recommendation system should be restored.
The emperor did not implement it.
Liu Yi is dedicated to serving the public good. From morning to night, he speaks sincerely and does not beat around the bush. Both the government and the public follow his example.
Once he fell ill during the fasting period, and his wife went to see him. Liu Yi punished his wife and ordered her to break her fast.
If a wife or child makes a mistake, they should be beaten with a rod immediately. Such is the justice.
But because he was strict and upright, the official failed to fulfill his duties.
Because Liu Yi was poor, the emperor rewarded him with a reward of 300,000 yuan and provided him with rice and meat for each meal.
At the age of seventy, he asked to retire.
It took a long time for it to be approved. When Dr. Guanglu returned home, a wooden fence was set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses, and he was rewarded with another one million yuan.
Later, Situ recommended Liu Yi to be the Grand Central Magistrate of Qingzhou. The Minister believed that Liu Yi had retired and should no longer bother him with trivial matters.
Sun Yin, the Prime Minister of Chen Liu, Le'an, wrote in a memorial: According to etiquette, those with lower status are tired while those with higher status are at leisure. This is in order.
Situ Wei Shu, Sili Colonel Yan Xun and Liu Yi were similar in age. They were both regular servants of Sanqi in the past. Later, they served in internal and external positions with the same qualifications.
Now Yan Xun is in charge of 400,000 households in the state, and he is also the inspector in charge of hundreds of officials. He is always in charge of secrets. Wei Shu governs a large population, and is also in charge of Zhongzheng. He weighs the opinions of sixteen states, and the person in charge does not think it is onerous.
Liu Yi was only in charge of one state, so he said that he was not suitable to be involved in trivial matters. He was too good to Liu Yi and too bad to Yan Xun and Wei Shu.
If he was allowed to retire before, he should not be awarded or promoted again. This is what happened when Zheng Miao, the former Guanglu doctor, became Sikong.
Knowing people's wisdom is not easy even for the emperor.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
尚可复委以宰辅之任，不可谘以人伦之论，臣窃所未安。
昔郑武公年过八十，入为周司徒，虽过悬车之年，必有可用。
毅前为司隶，直法不挠，当朝之臣，多所按劾。
谚曰： 受尧之诛，不能称尧。
直臣无党，古今所悉。
是以汲黯死于淮阳，董仲舒裁为诸侯之相。
而毅独遭圣明，不离辇毂，当世之士咸以为荣。
毅虽身偏有风疾，而志气聪明，一州品第，不足劳其思虑。
毅疾恶之心小过，主者必疑其论议伤物，故高其优礼，令去事实，此为机阁毅，使绝人伦之路也。
臣州茂德惟毅，越毅不用，则清谈倒错矣。
于是青州自二品已上凭毅取正。光禄勋石鉴等共奏曰： 谨按陈留相孙尹表及与臣等书如左。
臣州履境海岱，而参风齐、鲁，故人俗务本，而世敦德让，今虽不充于旧，而遗训犹存，是以人伦归行，士识所守也。
前被司徒符，当参举州大中正。
佥以光禄大夫毅，纯孝至素，著在乡闾。
忠允亮直，竭于事上，仕不为荣，惟期尽节。
正身率道，崇公忘私，行高义明，出处同揆。
故能令义士宗其风景，州闾归其清流。
虽年耆偏疾，而神明克壮，实臣州人士所思准系者矣。诚以毅之明格，能不言而信，风之所动，清浊必偃，以称一州咸同之望故也。
窃以为礼贤尚德，教之大典，王制夺与，动为开塞，而士之所归，人伦为大。
臣等虚劣，虽言废于前，今承尹书，敢不列启。
按尹所执，非惟惜名议于毅之身，亦通陈朝宜夺与大准。
以为尹言当否，应蒙评议。
由是毅遂为州都，铨正人流，清浊区别，其所弹贬，自亲贵者始。
太康六年卒，武帝抚几惊曰： 失吾名臣，不得生作三公！
即赠仪同三司，使者监护丧事。
translation: 
Although we can entrust the prime minister with important responsibilities, we cannot consult him about human ethics. I feel uneasy privately.
In the past, Zheng Wugong was over eighty years old and entered the court as Zhou Situ. Even if he retired, he would be available.
Liu Yi used to be a lieutenant in charge of Sili, and he was very good at enforcing the law. When he was a minister, he was often impeached.
The proverb says: One who was killed by Yao cannot speak well of Yao.
Upright ministers have no factions, as everyone knows in ancient and modern times.
So Ji An died in Huaiyang, and Dong Zhongshu was reduced to the rank of prince.
But Liu Yi was the only one who met the Holy Emperor and never left his side. The scholars in the dynasty thought it was an honor.
Although Liu Yi suffered from local diseases, he was smart and ambitious. He was able to comment and rank in every state, which did not bother him.
Liu Yi's jealousy was a little too much, and the person in charge must have suspected that his comments were harmful to things, so he was given very high courtesy and was not allowed to do practical things. He was isolated from the world and blocked the path of human ethics.
The only outstanding talent in Chenzhou is Liu Yi. If he is not used, the fair evaluation will be reversed.
So Qingzhou's second rank and above Guang Luxun Shi Jian and others jointly submitted a memorial saying: I would like to follow the memorial of Chen Liuxiang Sun Yin and us as follows.
We are located between Haidai and have the styles of Qi and Lu, so people have a basic mentality and advocate humility. Although it is not as strong as in the past, the training is still there, so everyone advocates virtue and scholars insist on integrity.
Not long ago, I won Situ Fujie and I will run for the state Zhongzheng election.
They all thought that Liu Yi, the Guanglu doctor, was famous in his hometown for his simplicity, filial piety and simplicity.
Be loyal and upright, try your best to serve the emperor, do not seek honor as an official, only hope to maintain your integrity.
Cultivate one's moral character and observe the Tao, forget selfishness, be morally noble, and be disciplined in advancing and retreating.
Therefore, it can make the righteous people look up to their style and influence the atmosphere of a state.
Although he is old and sick, he is energetic and energetic, and he is really popular in this state. Indeed, with Liu Yi's upright style, he is able to keep his word and influence people from all walks of life. This is because he is a role model for the state.
I secretly believe that treating virtuous people with courtesy and advocating morality are important contents of education. The appointment and removal of officials in the imperial court are related to whether the road to official selection is smooth, and scholars pay most attention to human ethics.
The ministers and others are incompetent. Although they did not start the memorial before, now they are holding the memorial to Huan Yin and dare not start it.
What Jian Yin said was not only Cherish's comments on plastic tunnels, but also a comprehensive statement of the general principles for selecting officials in the imperial court.
We think whether what Sun Yin said is correct or not should be evaluated.
So Xingqian was appointed as the Zhongzheng of the state, elected talents, distinguished the innocent from the dirty, impeached officials, and devalued the official positions, starting with relatives and nobles.
When Taikang died in the sixth year of his life, Emperor Wu touched the mortuary bed and said in shock: I have lost a famous official. He cannot be born as a third prince!
That is to say, the three departments of Yitong and others were sent to oversee the funeral.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
羽林左监北海王宫上疏曰： 中诏以毅忠允匪躬，赠班台司，斯诚圣朝考绩以毅著勋之美事也。
臣谨按，谥者行之迹，而号者功之表。今毅功德并立，而有号无谥，于义不体。
臣窃以《春秋》之事求之，谥法主于行而不系爵。
然汉、魏相承，爵非列侯，则皆没而高行，不加之谥，至使三事之贤臣，不如野战之将。
铭迹所殊，臣愿圣世举《春秋》之远制，改列爵之旧限，使夫功行之实不相掩替，则莫不率赖。
若以革旧毁制，非所仓卒，则毅之忠益，虽不攻城略地，论德进爵，亦应在例。
臣敢惟行甫请周之义，谨牒毅功行如石。
帝出其表使八坐议之，多同宫议。
奏寝不报。
二子：暾、总。
暾字长升，正直有父风。
太康初为博士，会议齐王攸之国，加崇典礼，暾与诸博士坐议迕旨。
武帝大怒，收暾等付廷尉。
会赦得出，免官。
初，暾父毅疾冯紞奸佞，欲奏其罪，未果而卒。
至是，紞位宦日隆，暾慨然曰： 使先人在，不令紞得无患。
后为酸枣令，转侍御史。
会司徒王浑主簿刘舆狱辞连暾，将收付廷尉。
浑不欲使府有过，欲距劾自举之。
与暾更相曲直，浑怒，便逊位还第。
暾乃奏浑曰： 谨按司徒王浑，蒙国厚恩，备位鼎司，不能上佐天子，调和阴阳，下遂万物之宜，使卿大夫各得其所。
敢因刘舆拒扞诏使，私欲大府兴长狱讼。
昔陈平不答汉文之问，邴吉不问死人之变，诚得宰相之体也。
既兴刑狱，怨怼而退，举动轻速，无大臣之节，请免浑官。
右长史、杨丘亭侯刘肇，便辟善柔，苟于阿顺，请大鸿胪削爵土。 诸闻暾此奏者，皆叹美之。
translation: 
Yulin Zuojian Beihai Palace Shangshu said: The emperor thought that Liu Yi had dedicated his whole life and posthumously granted him the title. This was because the imperial dynasty believed that Liu Yi had significant achievements.
I would like to press the button, the silence indicates one's virtue, and the trumpet indicates one's merit. Now Liu Yi has both merits and virtues, but his reputation is inconsistent with his righteousness.
Taking the example of "Spring and Autumn" as an example, Mi's method is mainly based on virtue and not on nobility.
However, since the Mo and Wei Dynasties were not princes, they did not consider their noble moral character and did not give them any honors. As a result, the virtuous ministers who were prime ministers were not as good as the generals in the field, and the inscriptions on their inscriptions were also very different.
I hope that the Holy World will adhere to the ancient system of "Spring and Autumn" and reform the old restrictions on awarding titles so that the truth of merit and virtue cannot be concealed. There is no one who will not obey and rely on Your Majesty.
If it is believed that reform or the abolition of the old system cannot be carried out hastily, then Liu Yi's loyalty, although he does not attack cities and seize territory, should be included in the promotion of virtue and nobility.
The minister dared to think about the example of Xingfu inviting Zhou, and carefully wrote down Liu Yi's merits and virtues as above.
The emperor took the memorial to the Shangshu Province for discussion, and most of them agreed with the palace's suggestions.
The memorial was not reported for a long time.
Two sons: Liu Tun and Mr. Liu.
Liu Tun, whose courtesy name is Changsheng, has the integrity of his father.
In the early years of Taikang, when he scolded the doctors, they were discussing the matter of King Sima You of Qi going to enfeoff the country and increase the etiquette. Liu Tun and other doctors were punished for discussing against the will.
Emperor Wu was furious and handed Liu Tun and others over to Tingwei.
He was released due to amnesty and dismissed from office.
At first, Liu Tun's father Liu Yi hated Feng Yu for being a treacherous person and wanted to punish him, but he died before the results came to fruition.
Now that Feng Squid's official career is prosperous, Liu Tun lamented: If his father were still alive, he would not let him feel so comfortable.
Later, he was appointed Suanzao Ling and was appointed as Shi Yushi.
At this time, the confessions of Situ Wanghun and Chief Secretary Liu Yu implicated Liu Tun and were about to be handed over to Tingwei.
Wang Hun didn't want the Situ Mansion to make any mistakes, so he spoke out himself if he wanted to resist impeachment.
After arguing with Liu Tun about right and wrong, Wang Hun became angry and abdicated and returned home.
Liu Tun then impeached Wang Hun and said: "Situ Wanghun has been favored by the country and is one of the three princes. He cannot assist the emperor, reconcile yin and yang, and regulate all things below, so that the ministers and officials can each have their own place."
He dared to use Liu Yu to resist the emperor's envoys, and personally wanted to involve the Situ Mansion in litigation.
In the past, when Chen Ping did not answer Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Bing Ji did not ask about the changes of the dead, which was indeed consistent with his status as a prime minister.
However, Wang Hun launched a lawsuit and retreated in resentment. His actions were rash and unworthy of a minister. Please avoid Dan Yuan Guan.
You Changshi and Yangqiuting Marquis Liu Zhao flattered him and asked Dahonglu to remove his title and fiefdom. Anyone who has heard of the pendant memorial praises it.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
其后武库火，尚书郭彰率百人自卫而不救火，暾正色诘之。
彰怒曰： 我能截君角也。
暾勃然谓彰曰： 君何敢恃宠作威作福，天子法冠而欲截角乎！
求纸笔奏之，彰伏不敢言，众人解释，乃止。
彰久贵豪侈，每出辄众百余人。
自此之后，务从简素。
暾迁太原内史，赵王伦篡位，假征虏将军，不受，与三王共举义。
惠帝复阼，暾为左丞，正色立朝，三台清肃。
寻兼御史中丞，奏免尚书仆射、东安公繇及王粹、董艾等十余人。
朝廷嘉之，遂即真。
迁中庶子、左卫将军、司隶校尉，奏免武陵王澹及何绥、刘坦、温畿、李晅等。
长沙王乂讨齐王冏，暾豫谋，封硃虚县公，千八百户。
乂死，坐免。
顷之，复为司隶。
及惠帝之幸长安也，留暾守洛阳。
河间王颙遣使鸩羊皇后，暾乃与留台仆射荀籓、河南尹周馥等上表，理后无罪。
语在《后传》。
颙见表，大怒，遣陈颜、吕朗率骑五千收暾，暾东奔高密王略。
会刘根作逆，略以暾为大都督，加镇军将军讨根。
暾战失利，还洛。
至酸枣，值东海王越奉迎大驾。
及帝还洛，羊后反宫。
后遣使谢暾曰： 赖刘司隶忠诚之志，得有今日。
以旧勋复封爵，加光禄大夫。
暾妻前卒，先陪陵葬。
子更生初婚，家法，妇当拜墓，携宾客亲属数十乘，载酒食而行。
先是，洛阳令王棱为越所信，而轻暾，暾每欲绳之，棱以为怨。
时刘聪、王弥屯河北，京邑危惧。
棱告越，云暾与弥乡亲而欲投之。
越严骑将追暾，右长史傅宣明暾不然。
暾闻之，未至墓而反，以正义责越，越甚惭。
translation: 
After this, the weapons depot caught fire, and Shangshu Guo Zhang led a hundred men to defend themselves but did not put out the fire. Liu Tun seriously questioned him.
Guo Zhang got angry and said: I can cut your corners.
Liu Tun was furious and said: How dare you rely on your favor to dominate? Do you want to cut off the crown of the emperor?
When asked to write a memorial with pen and paper, Guo Zhang fell to the ground and did not dare to speak. Only after everyone persuaded him did he stop.
Guo Zhang has been living in luxury for a long time, and every time he goes out, he is followed by more than a hundred people.
From now on, be frugal.
Liu Tun was promoted to the position of internal history of Taiyuan. After King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, he made him pretend to be a conscript general, but he refused to accept it and revolted with the three kings.
Emperor Hui was restored to power, and Liu Tun was appointed as Zuocheng.
Soon, he concurrently served as the censor Zhongcheng, and he was exempted from the position of Shangshu Pushe, Shu'an company Ma Yao, Wang Cui, Dong Ai and other more than ten officials.
The imperial court praised him and he was officially appointed.
He was promoted to the rank of concubine, general of Zuowei, and lieutenant of Sili. He was dismissed from the post of King Sima Dan of Wuling, He Sui, Liu Tan, Wen Ji, Li Wei and others.
When Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, attacked Sima Tong, the king of Qi, Liu Tun participated in the plan and made Zhuxu County Duke, sealing 1,800 households.
Sima died righteously and was dismissed from office.
Soon, he became the captain of Sili school again.
When Emperor Hui arrived in Chang'an, he left Liu Tun to guard Luoyang.
King Sima Yong of Hejian sent people to kill Queen Sheep, so Liu Tun and his servants She Xunfan and Yin Zhoufu of Henan went to court to declare that the Queen was not guilty.
The memorial is in "Post Biography".
When Sima Ti saw this, he was furious and sent Chen Yan and Lu Lang to lead five thousand cavalry to capture Liu Tun. Liu Tun rushed eastward to Sima Lue, the king of Gaomi.
At the time of Liu Gen's rebellion, Sima Lue appointed Liu Tun as the commander-in-chief and joined the generals of the town army to attack Liu Gen.
Liu Gen failed and returned to Luoyang.
Arriving at Suanzao, it was time for Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, to welcome the emperor.
When the emperor returned to Luoyang, Queen Sheep also returned to the palace.
The queen sent an envoy to thank Liu Hui and said: We are here today only because of Liu Sili's loyalty.
He was knighted again with his old honors and became a doctor named Guanglu.
Liu Tun's wife was dead and was buried first.
The son was reborn and had just gotten married. According to family law, the daughter-in-law should pay homage to the grave. The whole family went there with ten guests and relatives in the car, as well as food and wine.
In the past, Wang Leng, the commander of Luoyang, was trusted by Sima Yue and despised Liu Tun. Liu Tun always wanted to punish him and he hated Liu Tun.
At that time, Liu Cong and Wang Mi were stationed in Hebei, and the capital was in danger and fear.
Wang Leng told Sima Yue that Liu Dunyu and Wang Mi were fellow villagers and wanted to join him.
Sima Yue urgently ordered the cavalry to pursue Liu Tun, but Shi Fuxuan, the commander on the right, said that Liu Tun would not do this.
After Liu Tun heard about it, he returned without going to the cemetery and blamed Sima Yue for the purpose of his trip. Sima Yue was very ashamed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
及刘曜寇京师，以暾为抚军将军、假节、都督城守诸军事。
曜退，迁尚书仆射。
越惮暾久居监司，又为众情所归，乃以为右光禄大夫，领太子少傅，加散骑常侍。
外示崇进，实夺其权。
怀帝又诏暾领卫尉，加特进。
后复以暾为司隶，加侍中。
暾五为司隶，允协物情故也。
王弥入洛，百官歼焉。
弥以暾乡里宿望，故免于难。
暾因说弥曰： 今英雄竞起，九州幅裂，有不世之功者，宇内不容。
将军自兴兵已来，何攻不克，何战不胜，而复与刘曜不协，宜思文种之祸，以范蠡为师。
且将军可无帝王之意，东王本州，以观时势，上可以混一天下，下可以成鼎峙之事，岂失孙、刘乎！
蒯通有言，将军宜图之。
弥以为然，使暾于青州，与曹嶷谋，且征之。
暾至东阿，为石勒游骑所获，见弥与嶷书而大怒，乃杀之。
暾有二子：佑、白。
佑为太傅属，白太子舍人。
白果烈有才用，东海王越忌之，窃遣上军何伦率百余人入暾第，为劫取财物，杀白而去。
总字弘纪，好学直亮，后叔父彪，位至北军中候。
程卫，字长玄，广平曲周人也。
少立操行，强正方严。
刘毅闻其名，辟为都官从事。
毅奏中护军羊琇犯宪应死。
武帝与琇有旧，乃遣齐王攸喻毅，毅许之。
卫正色以为不可，径自驰车入护军营，收琇属吏，考问阴私，先奏琇所犯狼藉，然后言于毅。
由是名振遐迩，百官厉行。
遂辟公府掾，迁尚事郎、侍御史，在职皆以事干显。
补洛阳令，历安定、顿丘太守，所莅著绩。
卒于官。
和峤，字长舆，汝南西平人也。
祖洽，魏尚书令。
父逌，魏吏部尚书。
translation: 
When Liu Yao invaded the capital, he appointed Liu Tun as the general of Fujun, Jiajie, and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces that defended the city.
Liu Yao retreated and was promoted to minister Pushe.
Sima Yue was afraid that Liu Tun would stay in the supervision department for a long time. He was favored by the public, so he was appointed as the official Youguanglu, leading the prince's young master, and adding casual cavalry as a regular attendant.
It was a promotion on the surface, but it actually took away his power.
Emperor Huai also ordered Liu Tun to lead the guards and advance with special force.
Later, Liu Tun was appointed as the captain of the Sili school, and he was added as a minister.
Liu Tun was appointed as the captain of the Sili school five times. This was because of the harmonious personnel affairs.
When Wang Mi arrived in Luoyang, hundreds of officials were killed.
Wang Mi believed that Liu Tun was a well-established and respected person in the village, so he did not harm him.
Liu Tun took the opportunity and said to Wang Mi: Today, heroes compete with each other, the country is divided, and those who have extraordinary achievements are not tolerated.
Since the general launched his army, he has been invincible in every attack and invincible in every battle, but he is at odds with Liu Yao. He should think about the disaster of Wen Zhong and take Fan Li as his teacher.
Besides, how can the general not have the intention to become the king of this state? Judging from the situation, one can unify the world from above, and establish a powerful alliance from below. Be like Liu Bei or Sun Quan!
According to Kuai Tong's advice to Liu Bang, the general should have made plans in advance.
Wang Mi thought it was reasonable and sent Liu Tun to Qingzhou to plan with Cao Yi and appoint him.
When Liu Tun arrived in Cambodia, he was captured by Shi Le's patrol cavalry. When he saw Wang Mi's letter to Cao Yi, he was furious and killed him.
Liu Tun had two sons: Liu You and Liu Bai.
Liu You was a vassal of the Taifu, and he was appointed as the prince's wife.
Liu Huang was upright and talented. King Sima of the East China Sea hated him more and privately sent his army Yu Jian and more than a hundred people to Liu Dun's house to rob the property, kill Emperor Xing and leave.
Mr. Liu, whose courtesy name was Hongji, was studious, upright and loyal. He was adopted by his uncle Xingbiao and served as a middle-ranking official in the Northern Army.
Cheng Wei, whose courtesy name is Changxuan, was from Quzhou, Guangping.
Establish a moral character at a young age, be upright and serious.
When Liu Yi heard of his name, he recruited him to work as a capital official.
Liu Yi reported to the Central Guards that Yang Xiu had violated the law and deserved death.
Emperor Wu had a relationship with Xiu before, so he sent King Sima You of Qi to intercede, and Liu Yi agreed.
Liu Yi insisted that it was not possible, so he drove directly to the guard camp, captured Guise's subordinate officer, tortured him about the secret, first reported Yun Tuo's misconduct, and then reported it to Liu Yi.
As a result, his reputation spread far and wide, and all officials acted seriously.
So he was recruited into the government and promoted to minister and censor. He was known for his ability in handling affairs.
He supplemented the Luoyang order and served successively as the prefect of Anding and Dunqiu. Wherever he went, he made remarkable achievements.
Died in office.
Hexiao, whose courtesy name is Changyu, is from Xiping, Runan.
My grandfather made peace with him, and he was appointed as Shangshu Ling at that time.
His father, He Di, was the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel in the Wei Dynasty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
峤少有风格，慕舅夏侯玄之为人，厚自崇重。
有盛名于世，朝野许其能风俗，理人伦。袭父爵上蔡伯，起家太子舍人。
累迁颍川太守，为政清简，甚得百姓欢心。
太傅从事中郎庾顗见而叹曰： 峤森森如千丈松，虽磥可多节目，施之大厦，有栋梁之用。
贾充亦重之，称于武帝，入为给事黄门侍郎，迁中书令，帝深器遇之。
旧监令共车入朝，时荀勖为监，峤鄙勖为人，以意气加之，每同乘，高抗专车而坐。
乃使监令异车，自峤始也。
吴平，以参谋议功，赐弟郁爵汝南亭侯。
峤转侍中，愈被亲礼，与任恺、张华相善。
峤见太子不令，因侍坐曰： 皇太子有淳古之风，而季世多伪，恐不了陛下家事。
帝默然不答。
后与荀顗、荀勖同侍，帝曰： 太子近入朝，差长进，卿可俱诣之，粗及世事。
即奉诏而还。顗、勖并称太子明识弘雅，诚如明诏。
峤曰： 圣质如初耳！
帝不悦而起。
峤退居，恆怀慨叹，知不见用，犹不能已。
在御坐言及社稷，未尝不以储君为忧。帝知其言忠，每不酬和。
后与峤语，不及来事。
或以告贾妃，妃衔之。
太康末，为尚书，以母忧去职。
及惠帝即位，拜太子少傅，加散骑常侍、光禄大夫。
太子朝西宫，峤从入。
贾后使帝问峤曰： 卿昔谓我不了家事，今日定云何？
峤曰： 臣昔事先帝，曾有斯言。
言之不效，国之福也。
臣敢逃其罪乎！
元康二年卒，赠金紫光禄大夫，加金章紫绶，本位如前。
永平初，策谥曰简。
峤家产丰富，拟于王者，然性至吝，以是获讥于世，杜预以为峤有钱癖。
以弟郁子济嗣，位至中书郎。
translation: 
He Chuan was young and graceful, and envied his uncle Xia Houxuan for his self-respect and reputation at that time.
The government and the public praised him for his ability to rectify customs and straighten out human relations. After inheriting his father's title, Cai Bo began to serve as an official and sacrificed his life for the prince.
He was promoted to prefect of Yingchuan many times. His administration was simple and simple, and he was very popular with the people.
When Yujie, the minister in charge of the Taifu, saw him, he sighed: "Hezuo is as tall as a thousand-foot pine. Although it has many knots, it is used in buildings and is the material of pillars."
Maitong also valued him and praised him in front of Genyou. He was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen and promoted to Zhongshu Ling. Emperor Wu thought highly of him.
In the past, the prisoner He Ling came to the court in the same carriage. At that time, Gou Xu was the prisoner, and He Wei despised him as a man and was domineering. Every time he entered the court, He Wei rode alone in the carriage.
The prison and order are different from each other, starting from Hexiao.
Wu Pingding gave his younger brother and Yu Jue the title of Marquis of Runan Ting for their participation in the planning.
Qiao was appointed as a servant, and became more trusted and treated favorably. He became close to Ren Kai and Zhang Hua.
Seeing that the prince did not obey the order, Qiao said from the seat next to him: "The prince has a simple style, but in the declining world, there are many hypocrisies. I am afraid that he does not understand your majesty's family affairs."
Emperor Wu remained silent.
Later, he served with Xun Yi and Xun Xu together, and the emperor said: "The prince has recently entered the court and has made some progress. You can go together and talk about human affairs."
After returning home, Xun Yi and Xun Xu jointly praised the prince for being smart and elegant, which was indeed what the emperor said.
He Wei said: His temperament is as good as before!
The emperor stood up unhappily.
When Kuo Wei returned home, he often lamented that he still couldn't be himself even if he knew he wasn't being used.
When the emperor talks about the country, he is always worried about the prince. The emperor knew that he was loyal to his words and never responded with words.
Hou Yu spoke crookedly and no longer mentioned the future.
Someone told Concubine Jia that she hated him.
In the last years of Taikang's reign, he was appointed as Minister of Finance and resigned due to his mother's funeral.
When Emperor Hui came to the throne, he was appointed Prince Shaofu, Sanqi Changshi, and Guanglu Doctor.
The prince paid homage to the queen mother, and He Jiao followed.
Empress Jia asked Emperor Hui to ask He Wei: You said before that I didn't understand family affairs. What are you going to say today?
He Wei said: I once said this when I served the emperor.
If words don’t work, it’s a blessing for the country.
Do you dare to escape this crime?
When Yuankang died in the second year of his life, he was posthumously granted the title of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, with a gold medal and purple ribbon, and his official position remained as before.
Mi Hao Jian.
He Wei's family was rich in wealth and could rival the king's, but he was stingy and was ridiculed by others. Du Yu thought that He Wei had a money habit.
His younger brother Heyu's son Heji succeeded him to the position of Zhongshu Lang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
郁字仲舆，才望不及峤，而以清干称，历尚书左右仆射、中书令、尚书令。
洛阳倾没，奔于苟晞，疾卒。
武陔，字元夏，沛国竹邑人也。
父周，魏卫尉。
陔沈敏有器量，早获时誉，与二弟韶叔夏、茂季夏并总角知名，虽诸父兄弟及乡闾宿望，莫能觉其优劣。
同郡刘公荣有知人之鉴，常造周，周见其三子焉。
公荣曰： 皆国士也。
元夏最优，有辅佐之才，陈力就列，可为亚公。
叔夏、季夏不减常伯、纳言也。
陔少好人伦，与颍川陈泰友善。
魏明帝世，累迁下邳太守。
景帝为大将军，引为从事中郎，累迁司隶校尉，转太仆卿。
初封亭侯，五等建，改封薛县侯。
文帝甚亲重之，数与诠论时人。
尝问陈泰孰若其父群，陔各称其所长，以为群、泰略无优劣，帝然之。
泰始初，拜尚书，掌吏部，迁左仆射、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
陔以宿齿旧臣，名位隆重，自以无佐命之功，又在魏已为大臣，不得已而居位，深怀逊让，终始全洁，当世以为美谈。
卒于位，谥曰定。
子辅嗣。
韶历吏部郎、太子右卫率、散骑常侍。
茂以德素称，名亚于陔，为上洛太守、散骑常侍、侍中、尚书。
颍川荀恺年少于茂，即武帝姑子，自负贵戚，欲与茂交，距而不答，由是致怨。
及杨骏诛，恺时为仆射，以茂骏之姨弟，陷为逆党，遂见害。
茂清正方直，闻于朝野，一旦枉酷，天下伤焉。
侍中傅祗上申明之，后追赠光禄勋。
任恺，字元褒，乐安博昌人也。
父昊，魏太常。
恺少有识量，尚魏明帝女，累迁中书侍郎、员外散骑常侍。
晋国建，为侍中，封昌国县侯。
translation: 
Heyu, whose courtesy name was Zhongyu, was not as talented and famous as Hewei, but he was known for his integrity and ability. He served successively as minister, left and right pushe, Zhongshu Ling, and Shangshu Ling.
After the fall of Diaoyang, he took refuge in Baochai and died of illness.
Wu Yi, whose courtesy name was Yuanxia, ​​was a native of Zhuyi in the state of Pei.
His father, Wu Zhou, served as a guard in Wei Dynasty.
Wu Ye was deep, perceptive and measured, and had a long-standing reputation. He and his second brothers Wu Shao, also known as Shuxia, and Wu Mao, named Jixia, were known to each other when they were children. Even brothers from their father's generation and mature and famous people in the village could not tell their merits.
Liu Gongrong of the same county was good at appreciating figures and often visited Wu Zhou's house. Wu Zhou asked his three sons to come out to meet him.
Gongrong said: They are all national scholars.
The best in the Yuan Xia Dynasty were those who had the talents of Wang Zuo and used their talents to become officials. They could be Situ.
Shu Xia and Ji Xia are no less inferior to Chang Bo and Na.
When Wu Wei was young, he liked to criticize people and was friendly with Chen Tai, the prefect of Yingchuan.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, he was promoted to the governor of Xiapi.
Emperor Jing was a general, and he was promoted to Zhonglang. He was promoted to Sili Xiaowei many times, and then to Taipuqing.
He was first granted the title of Marquis of Ting, and when the fifth-level title was established, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xue County.
Emperor Wen valued him very much and discussed with him many times the figures of that time.
I once asked Chen Tai or his father Chen Qun which one is better. Wu Ye talked about their strengths and thought that Chen Qun and Chen Tai were almost the same, and Emperor Wen agreed.
In the early years of Taishi's reign, he was appointed as Shangshu, in charge of the Ministry of Personnel, and was promoted to Zuopushe, Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong.
Wu Ye was an old minister and had a high reputation and official position. He thought that he had no help. He was already a minister in Wei and had no choice but to become an official. He wanted to resign to preserve his moral integrity. He thought it was a good talk in the world.
If he dies in office, his name will be determined.
He was succeeded by his son Wu Fu.
Wu Shao successively served as the official of the official department, the prince's right guard leader, and the regular attendant of Sanqi.
Gendi was famous for his moral character and conduct, and his reputation was second to Gendai. He served as the prefect of Shangluo, the regular attendant of Sanqi, the minister in the middle, and the minister.
Yingchuan Xunkai was younger than Wu Mao and was the son of Emperor Wu's aunt. He believed that he was a noble relative and wanted to make friends with Wu Mao, but Wu Mao refused, which led to a feud.
When Yang Jun was killed, Xun Kai served as a servant. Because Wu Mao was Yang Jun's cousin, he was falsely accused of rebelling against the party and was killed.
Wu Mao was known for his integrity and integrity, both in the government and at home. Once he died unjustly, the whole world would be heartbroken.
Attendant Fu Zhi went to court to defend him, and was later posthumously named Guang Luxun.
Ren Kai, whose courtesy name is Yuanbao, was born in Bochang, Le'an.
His father, Ren Hao, was appointed Taichang in Wei Dynasty.
Ren Kai was a young man with little knowledge and fortitude. He married the daughter of Emperor Wei Ming and was promoted to the rank of Minister of the Secretariat of the Central Committee and the Standing Minister of Yuanwai Sanqi many times.
After the establishment of the Jin State, he was appointed as a minister and granted the title of County Marquis of Chang State.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
恺有经国之干，万机大小多管综之。
性忠正，以社稷为己任，帝器而昵之，政事多谘焉。
泰始初，郑冲、王祥、何曾、荀顗、裴秀等各以老疾归第。
帝优宠大臣，不欲劳以筋力，数遣恺谕旨于诸公，谘以当世大政，参议得失。
恺恶贾充之为人也，不欲令久执朝政，每裁抑焉。
充病之，不知所为。
后承间言恺忠贞局正，宜在东宫，使护太子。
帝从之，以为太子少傅，而侍中如故，充计画不行。
会秦、雍寇扰，天子以为忧。
恺因曰： 秦、凉覆败，关右骚动，此诚国家之所深虑。
宜速镇抚，使人心有庇。
自非威望重臣有计略者，无以康西土也。
帝曰： 谁可任者？
恺曰： 贾充其人也。
中书令庾纯亦言之，于是诏充西镇长安。
充用荀勖计得留。
充既为帝所遇，欲专名势，而庾纯、张华、温颙、向秀、和峤之徒皆与恺善，杨珧、王恂？华暠等充所亲敬，于是朋党纷然。
帝知之，召充、恺宴于式乾殿，而谓充等曰： 朝廷宜一，大臣当和。
充、恺各拜谢而罢。
既而充、恺等以帝已知之而不责，结怨愈深，外相崇重，内甚不平。
或为充谋曰： 恺总门下枢耍，得与上亲接，宜启令典选，便得渐疏，此一都令史事耳。
且九流难精，间隙易乘。
充因称恺才能，宜在官人之职。
帝不之疑，谓充举得其才。
即日以恺为吏部尚书，加奉车都尉。
恺既在尚书，选举公平，尽心所职，然侍觐转希。
充与荀勖、冯紞承间浸润，谓恺豪侈，用御食器。
充遣尚书右仆射、高阳王珪奏恺，遂免官。
translation: 
Ren Kai has the ability to govern the country and is in charge of everything big and small.
He was loyal and upright, and regarded the country as his own responsibility. The emperor valued him and was close to him, and he often consulted him on political affairs.
In the early years of Taishi, Zheng Chong, Wang Xiang, He Zeng, Xun Hao, Pei Xiu, etc. all went home due to old age and illness.
The emperor treated them favorably and trusted them, and did not want to strain his muscles. He sent Ren Kai many times to inform them of his will, consult on major affairs of the day, and participate in discussions on gains and losses.
Ren Kai hated Jia Chong's behavior and did not want him to be in power for a long time, so he always suppressed him.
Jia Chong hated him, but couldn't do anything about him.
Later, he took the opportunity to say that Ren Kai was loyal and upright and should stay in Shu Palace to take care of the prince.
The emperor agreed, thinking that the prince's young master and his servants would remain as usual, and Jia Chong's conspiracy had not succeeded.
At a time when Qin and Yong were being harassed by thieves and bandits, the emperor was worried.
Ren Kai took the opportunity and said: Qin and Liang were destroyed, and Guanyou was in turmoil. This is indeed worth pondering for the country.
They should be quickly guarded and comforted to stabilize people's hearts.
If it were not for the powerful ministers with prestige and strategy, it would be impossible to regain the Western Territory.
The emperor asked: Who can take on this responsibility?
Ren Kai said: You can buy and recharge.
Zhongshu ordered Yu Chun to agree, so Shao ordered Jia Chong to visit Chang'an in the west.
Jia Chong used Taoxu's strategy to stay.
Since Maichong was valued by the emperor, he wanted to control power. Yu Chun, Zhang Hua, Wen Xian, Xiang Xiu, He Wei, etc. were all friendly with Ren Kai. Yang Jue, Wang Xun, Hua Ting, etc. were all close to Maichong, so the cronies fought.
After the emperor found out, he hosted a banquet for Jia Chong and Ren Kai in Shiqian Hall, and said to Jia Chong and others: The court should be unified and the ministers should be in harmony.
Jia Chong and Ren Kai gave up their apology.
Then Jia Chong, Ren Kai and others did not blame the emperor because they already knew about it, and their resentment became deeper and deeper. On the outside, they pushed each other away, but inside they were very unbalanced.
Someone gave Jia Chong an idea and said: Ren Kai, the general manager of the sect, has to be close to the emperor. He should ask the emperor to order him to preside over the election, so that he can gradually become alienated, which will make the history of the capital.
What's more, it is difficult to figure out the ninth-grade characters, so there are opportunities to take advantage of them.
Maichong then praised Ren Kai for his talent and that he should preside over the election.
The emperor was not suspicious and said that Maichong had recommended a suitable candidate.
The next day, Ren Kai was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and appointed as the Captain of Che.
When Ren Kai was appointed minister, the election was fair and he tried his best, but he saw that the emperor was missing.
Jia Chong, Xun Xu and Feng You took the opportunity to slander Ren Kai, saying that Ren Kai was extravagant and used the emperor's tableware.
Maichong asked Shangshu Youpuse and Sima Gui, King of Gaoyang, to impeach Ren Kai and remove him from office.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
有司收太官宰人检核，是恺妻齐长公主得赐魏时御器也。
恺既免而毁谤益至，帝渐薄之。
然山涛明恺为人通敏有智局，举为河南尹。
坐贼发不获，又免官。
复迁光禄勋。
恺素有识鉴，加以在公勤恪，甚得朝野称誉。
而贾充朋党又讽有司奏恺与立进令刘友交关。
事下尚书，恺对不伏。
尚书杜友、廷尉刘良并忠公士也，知恺为充所抑，欲申理之，故迟留而未断，以是恺及友、良皆免官。
恺既失职，乃纵酒耽乐，极滋味以自奉养。
初，何劭以公子奢侈，每食必尽四方珍馔，恺乃逾之，一食万钱，犹云无可下箸处。
恺时因朝请，帝或慰谕之，恺初无复言，惟泣而已。
后起为太仆，转太常。
初，魏舒虽历位郡守，而未被任遇，恺为侍中，荐舒为散骑常侍。
至是舒为右光禄、开府，领司徒，帝临轩使恺拜授。
舒虽以弘量宽简为称，时以恺有佐世器局，而舒登三公，恺止守散卿，莫不为之愤叹也。
恺不得志，竟以忧卒，时年六十一，谥曰元，子罕嗣。
罕字子伦，幼有门风，才望不及恺，以淑行致称，为清平佳士。
历黄门侍郎、散骑常侍、兗州刺史、大鸿胪。
崔洪，字良伯，博陵安平人也。
高祖寔，著名汉代。
父赞，魏吏部尚书、左仆射，以雅量见称。
洪少以清厉显名，骨鲠不同于物，人之有过，辄面折之，而退无后言。
武帝世，为御史治书。
时长乐冯恢父为弘农太守，爱少子淑，欲以爵传之。
恢父终，服阕，乃还乡里，结草为庐，阳喑不能言，淑得袭爵。
恢始仕为博士祭酒，散骑常侍翟婴荐恢高行迈俗，侔继古烈。
洪奏恢不敦儒素，令学生番直左右，虽有让侯微善，不得称无伦辈，婴为浮华之目。
遂免婴官，朝廷惮之。
寻为尚书左丞，时人为之语曰： 丛生棘刺，来自博陵。
translation: 
Relevant departments arrested the eunuchs and slaughtered people for inspection and verification. It turned out that Ren Kai's wife, Princess Qi Chang, had received the imperial supplies of the Wei Dynasty as rewards.
Ren Kai had been dismissed from office, but the slanders became more and more frequent, and the emperor gradually alienated him.
But Shan Tao understood that Ren Kai was broad-minded, smart and intelligent, so he recommended him as Henan Yin.
Because he failed to cure the thieves, he was dismissed from office.
Promoted to Guang Luxun again.
Ren Kai has always been able to appreciate people, and he is diligent and cautious in official affairs, which is highly praised by the government and the public.
However, Jia Chong's cronies also suggested that relevant departments should impeach Ren Kai for colluding with Li Jinling Liu You.
Ren Kai refused to accept the matter.
Shangshu Du You and Tingwei Liu Liang were both loyal to their duties. They knew that Ren Kai was being bribed and suppressed, and wanted to defend him, so they delayed the judgment. So Ren Kai, Du You, and Liu Liang were dismissed from office.
Since Ren Kai lost his official position, he indulged in drinking and enjoying himself, and tasted all the flavors to maintain himself.
At first, He Shao thought that the young master was extravagant and would gather delicacies from all over the world every time he ate. Ren Kai went even further, charging ten thousand gold for a meal and saying there was nothing to eat.
Ren Kai sometimes went to court, and the emperor expressed condolences to him. At first, he didn't answer and just cried.
Later, he was promoted to Tai servant and changed to Taichang.
At the beginning, although Wei Shu served as the governor of the county, he was not taken seriously. He appointed Kai as the servant and recommended Wei Shu to be the regular servant of the Sanqi.
At this point, Wei Shu served as You Guanglu, Kaifu, and led the Situ. The emperor walked to the front of the palace to let Ren Kai confer the official.
Although Wei Shu was known for his magnanimity, people at the time thought that Ren Kai had the talent to assist. However, since Wei Shu was the Three Dukes, Ren Kai was only a nine minister in name only, and everyone was indignant about it.
Ren Kai failed to achieve his ambition, and finally died due to worry. He was sixty-one years old. He was named Yuan and was succeeded by his son Ren Han.
Ren Han, courtesy name Wang Jian, was young and had a good family tradition. His talent and reputation were not as good as those of Ren Kai. He gained reputation for his kind deeds and was an outstanding scholar who was honest and fair.
He successively served as the minister of Huangmen, the regular minister of Sanqi, the governor of Yanzhou, and Dahonglu.
Cui Hong, named Liangbo, was from Anping, Boling.
Cui Palace, the great ancestor, was very famous in the Han Dynasty.
His father, Cui Zan, served as Minister of Civil Affairs and Zuopushe during the Wei Dynasty. He was famous for his magnanimity.
When he was young, Cui Hong was famous for his integrity and seriousness. When he met people, he would criticize them face to face if they made mistakes, and he would not say anything afterward.
In the reign of Emperor Wu, he served as the censor and wrote books.
At that time, Feng Hui's father in Changle was the prefect of Hongnong. He loved his youngest son Feng Shu and wanted to pass on the title to him.
When Feng Hui's father passed away, Feng Hui returned to his hometown after his period of mourning, woven straw into a simple house, and pretended to be mute, so that Feng Shu could inherit it.
Feng Hui began to serve as an official and offered wine to the doctor. Zhai Ying, a regular servant of Sanqi, recommended Feng Hui, saying that he had noble conduct, was extraordinary and had the style of an ancient martyr.
Cui Hong reported that Feng Hui could not take the lead in carrying out the moral conduct of a Confucian scholar and ordered students to take turns on duty. Although he had the small kindness of Rang Hou, he could not be said to be unparalleled. Zhai Ying was a flashy and unrealistic person.
So Zhai Ying was removed from the official position, and the court was afraid of him.
Not long after he was appointed Minister Zuocheng, people at that time commented on him: "The thorns come from Boling."


Chunk 14: 
original: 
在南为鹞，在北为鹰。
选吏部尚书，举用甄明，门无私谒。
荐雍州刺史郤诜代己为左丞。
诜后纠洪，洪谓人曰： 我举郤丞而还奏我，是挽弩自射也。
诜闻曰： 昔赵宣子任韩厥为司马，以军法戮宣子之仆。
宣子谓诸大夫曰： 可贺我矣，我选厥也任其事。
崔侯为国举才，我以才见举，惟官是视，各明至公，何故私言乃至此！
洪闻其言而重之。
洪口不言货财，手不执珠玉。
汝南王亮常晏公卿，以琉璃钟行酒。
酒及洪，洪不执。
亮问其故，对曰： 虑有执玉不趋之义故尔 。
然实乖其常性，故为诡说。
杨骏诛，洪与都水使者王佑亲，坐见黜。
后为大司农，卒于官。
子廓，散骑侍郎，亦以正直称。
郭奕，字大业，太原阳曲人也。
少有重名，山涛称其高简有雅量。
初为野王令，羊祜常过之，奕叹曰： 羊叔子何必减郭大业！
少选复往，又叹曰： 羊叔子去人远矣。
遂送祜出界数百里，坐此免官。
咸熙末，为文帝相国主薄。
时钟会反于蜀，荀勖即会之从甥，少长会家，勖为文帝掾，奕启出之。帝虽不用，然知其雅正。
武帝践阼，初建东宫，以奕及郑默并为中庶子。
迁右卫率、骁骑将军，封平陵男。
咸宁初，迁雍州刺史、鹰扬将军，寻假赤幢曲盖、鼓吹。
奕有寡姊，随奕之官，姊下僮仆多有奸犯，而为人所纠。
奕省按毕，曰： 大丈夫岂当以老姊求名？
遂遣而不问。
时亭长李含有俊才，而门寒为豪族所排，奕用为别驾，含后果有名位，时以奕为知人。
太康中，征为尚书。
奕有重名，当世朝臣皆出其下。
时帝委任杨骏，奕表骏小器，不可任以社稷。
帝不听，骏后果诛。
及奕疾病，诏赐钱二十万，日给酒米。
translation: 
In the south is a harrier, in the north is an eagle.
When appointed as Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the selection of officials should be fair, and there should be no private pleas.
He recommended the governor of Yongzhou but said that he would be replaced by Zuocheng.
Shao said that he later reported Cui Hong. Cui Hong said to others: I recommended Shao Cheng but he impeached me instead. This is a shot at himself.
After hearing this, Shao said: In the past, Zhao Xuanzi regarded Han Jue as his commander, but Han Jue killed Xuanzi's servants with military law.
Xuanzi said to the doctors: You can congratulate me. I chose Han Jue to make him fulfill his responsibility.
Marquis Cui selected talents for the country, and I was selected based on my talents and only for my official position. I behaved very fairly. Why would I say such unfair words!
Cui Hong thought highly of him after hearing about it.
Cui Hong didn't talk about wealth in his mouth, and he didn't hold pearls and jade in his hands.
Sima Liang, king of Runan, often entertained ministers and drank wine with glass bells.
Cui Hong wouldn't take the wine when he got it.
Sima Liang asked the reason and replied: I thought it was because I couldn't walk quickly while holding the jade.
But it does go against common sense, so it is sophistry.
Yang Jun was killed, Cui Hong was close to Wang You, the envoy of Dushui, and was deposed for being implicated in the crime.
Later he became the great minister of agriculture and died in office.
His son Cui Kuo, the minister of Sanqi, was also famous for his integrity.
Guo Yi, named Daye, was from Yangqu, Taiyuan.
He was famous at a young age, and Shan Tao praised him for his magnanimity and magnanimity.
When he first served as the Ye Wang Ling, Yang Ku often passed by. Guo Yi sighed: Why should Uncle Yang be second to Guo Daye!
Not long after he went there again, Guo Yi sighed again: Uncle Yang is not a mortal.
So Yang Hu was sent out of the border to travel a hundred miles, and was punished and dismissed from office.
In the last years of Xianxi's reign, he was the Prime Minister of Emperor Wen.
At this time, Zhong Hui rebelled in Shu. Xun Xu was Zhong Hui's nephew and grew up in Zhong Hui's family.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and built the East Palace for the first time, with Guo Yi and Zheng Mo as the middle sons.
He was promoted to the right guard and the general of the heroic cavalry, and was granted the title of Ping Lingnan.
In the early years of Xianning, he was promoted to the governor of Yongzhou and general Yingyang. Soon, he was lent to him a red canopy with a curved cover and a drum.
Guo Yi had a widowed sister who worked as an official with Guo Yi. Many of her slaves committed crimes, so they were reported.
After Guo Yi completed the review, he said: How can a man seek fame after his elder sister?
So I sent him away without asking.
At that time, Li Han, the head of the pavilion, was talented, but his family was low and he was excluded by the rich. Guo Yi used him as a substitute. As expected, Li Han later became a high official. People at the time thought that Guo Yi could recognize people.
During the Taikang period, he was requisitioned as a minister.
Guo Yi had a great reputation, and all the ministers in the dynasty were ranked below him.
At that time, Emperor Wu appointed Yang Jun, but Guo Yi said that Yang Jun was too small to be entrusted with important national responsibilities.
Emperor Wu refused to listen, and Yang Jun was later killed.
When Guo Yi became seriously ill, Shaoling rewarded him with a reward of 200,000 yuan and gave him wine and rice every day.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
太康八年卒，太常上谥为景。
有司议以贵贱不同号，谥与景皇同，不可，请谥曰穆。
诏曰： 谥所以旌德表行，按谥法一德不懈为简。
奕忠毅清直，立德不渝。
于是遂赐谥曰简。
侯史光，字孝明，东莱掖人也。幼有才悟，受学于同县刘夏。
举孝廉，州辟别驾。
咸熙初，为洛阳典农中郎将，封关中侯。
泰始初，拜散骑常侍，寻兼侍中。
与皇甫陶、荀暠持节循省风俗，及还，奏事称旨，转城门校尉，进爵临海侯。
其年诏曰： 光忠亮笃素，有居正执义之心，历职内外，恪勤在公，其以光为御史中丞。
虽屈其列校之位，亦所以伸其司直之才。
光在职宽而不纵。
太保王祥久疾废朝，光奏请免之，诏优祥而寝光奏。
后迁少府，卒官，诏赐朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、布百匹。
及葬，又诏曰： 光厉志守约，有清忠之节。
家极贫俭，其赐钱五十万。
光儒学博古，历官著绩，文笔奏议皆有条理。
长子玄嗣，官至玄菟太守。
卒，子施嗣，东莞太守。
何攀，字惠兴，蜀郡郫人也。
仕州为主薄。属刺史皇甫晏为牙门张弘所害，诬以大逆。
时攀适丁母丧，遂诣梁州拜表，证晏不反，故晏冤理得申。
王濬为益州，辟为别驾。
濬谋伐吴，遣攀奉表诣台，口陈事机，诏再引见，乃令张华与攀筹量进时讨之宜。
濬兼遣攀过羊祜，面陈伐吴之策。
攀善于将命，帝善之，诏攀参濬军事。
及孙皓降于濬，而王浑恚于后机，欲攻濬，攀劝濬送皓与浑，由是事解。
以攀为濬辅国司马，封关内侯。
转荥阳令，上便宜十事，甚得名称。
translation: 
Taikang died in the eighth year, and Taichang went to Mi Haojing.
Relevant departments believe that there are different titles for noble and humble, and the title of Mi is the same as that of King Jing. It is not acceptable and the request is for Mu.
Shao Shu said: Mi Hao commends virtue, and it is simple to adhere to morality according to Mi's law and not relax.
Guo Yi is loyal, resolute, upright and unswervingly moral.
So Mi was given the title Jian.
Hou Shiguang's character is Chang, and he is a person from Lou. He was young and smart, and he worshiped Xingxia from the same county as his teacher.
To promote filial piety and honesty, the state is used as a special vehicle.
In the early years of Chenli's reign, he was appointed as Luoyang Diannong Zhonglang General and granted the title of Guan Zhonghou.
In the early years of Taishi, he was appointed as the regular attendant of Sanqi, and soon he was also appointed as the middle attendant.
He ran straight with the emperor, and Baoyan took the talisman to inspect the local customs. When he came back, he reported that the situation was in line with the emperor's will, and he was appointed as the captain of the city gate and the title of Marquis of Linhai.
The edict at that time said: Shi Guang was loyal and simple, with a heart of justice. He had served as an internal and external official, and he was respectful and hard-working. Shi Guang was appointed as Yushi Zhongcheng.
Although he has been relegated to the official positions of minister and lieutenant, it is also to display his talents as a direct officer.
Hou Shiguang is relaxed but not indulgent in his work.
Taibao Wang Xiang was ill for a long time and did not go to court. Hou Shiguang petitioned to remove him from office. He ordered Wang Xiang to be treated favorably and withheld Hou Shiguang's memorial.
Later he was promoted to Shaofu, and when he died in office, he was given a court uniform, a regular uniform, 300,000 yuan, and 100 pieces of cloth.
After the burial, another edict was issued saying: Shi Guang was resolute and poor, with integrity and loyalty.
The family was very poor and was given a reward of 500,000 yuan.
Hou Shiguang was good at Confucianism and was familiar with ancient times. He had remarkable achievements in his tenure and his writings and memorials were well organized.
The eldest son Hou Xuan succeeded him and became the prefect of Xuan Tu.
After his death, his son Hou Shi succeeded him and became the prefect of Dongguan.
He Pan, whose courtesy name was Huixing, was from Pi, Shu County. Served as state registrar.
At this time, the governor Huangfu Yan was killed by Yamen Zhang Hong, who was framed for treason.
At that time, He Pan was catching up with his mother's funeral, so he went to Liangzhou to submit a memorial to prove that Huangfu Yan had not rebelled, so Huangfu Yan could appeal his grievances.
Wang Jun is the governor of Yizhou and serves as a special driver.
Wang Jun planned a crusade against Yu You and sent Bao Pan to the central government with a memorial to describe the opportunity. Shaoling introduced him again and ordered Zhang Huayu to plan the crusade.
Wang Jun also sent He Pan to pass by Yanghu to present the strategy of attacking Wu.
He Pan was good at conveying orders, and the emperor cherished him and allowed him to join Wang Jun's military affairs.
When Jianbi surrendered to Wang Tan, Wang Yun was angry because he was late and wanted to attack Wang Jun. He Pan persuaded Wang Jun to give Sun Hao to Wang Tan, and the conflict was resolved.
He Pan was appointed as Wang Jun's auxiliary Sima, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
He was changed to Rongyang Ling, and he reported ten things that were beneficial to the country, which was highly praised.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
除廷尉平。时廷尉卿诸葛冲以攀蜀士，轻之，及共断疑狱，冲始叹服。
迁宣城太守，不行，转散骑侍郎。
杨骏执政，多树亲属，大开封尝，欲以恩泽自卫。
攀以为非，乃与石崇共立议奏之。
语在崇传。
帝不纳。
以豫诛骏功，封西城侯，邑万户，赐绢万匹，弟逢平卿侯，兄子逵关中侯。
攀固让所封户及绢之半，余所受者分给中外宗亲，略不入己。
迁翊军校尉，顷之，出为东羌校尉。
征为扬州刺史，在任三年，迁大司农。
转兗州刺史，加鹰扬将军，固让不就。
太常成粲、左将军卞粹劝攀涖职，中诏又加切厉，攀竟称疾不起。
及赵王伦篡位，遣使召攀，更称疾笃。
伦怒，将诛之，攀不得已，扶疾赴召。
卒于洛阳，时年五十八。
攀居心平允，氵位官整肃，爱乐人物，敦儒贵才。
为梁、益二州中正，引致遗滞。
巴西陈寿、阎乂、犍为费立皆西州名士，并被乡闾所谤，清议十余年。
攀申明曲直，咸免冤滥。
攀虽居显职，家甚贫素，无妾媵伎乐，惟以周穷济乏为事。
子璋嗣，亦有父风。
史臣曰：幽厉不君，上德犹怀进善；共驩在位，大圣之所不堪。
况乎志士仁人，宁求苟合！
怀其宠秩，所以系其存亡者也。
虽复自口销金，投光抚剑，驰书北阙，败车犹践，而谏主不易，讥臣实难。
刘毅一遇宽容，任和两遭肤受，详观余烈，亦各其心焉。
若夫武陔怀魏臣之志，崔洪爱郤诜之道，长升劝王弥之尊，何攀从赵伦之命，君子之人，观乎临事者也。
赞曰：仲雄初令，忠謇扬庭。
身方诸葛，帝拟桓、灵。
大业非杨，元褒诮贾。
translation: 
When he was appointed Tingwei, Zhuge Chong, the Tingwei minister at that time, despised him because he was from Shu. He did not start to admire him until they jointly tried difficult cases.
He was promoted to the prefect of Xuancheng, but before he left, he was appointed as the minister of Sanqi.
When he was in power, he used relatives more, promoted rewards, and wanted to use favors to defend himself.
Jian! thought it was inappropriate, so they impeached him together with Gensai.
The memorial can be found in "The Biography of Shi Chong".
The emperor did not accept it.
Because of his meritorious service in participating in the plot to kill Zizhui, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xicheng, with a settlement of 10,000 households, and a reward of 10,000 pieces of silk. His younger brother Bao Feng was made Marquis of Pingxiang, and his nephew Yukui was made Marquis of Guanzhong.
Yu Pan resolutely gave up half of the settlement house and half of the silk, and distributed the rest to relatives, basically leaving nothing for himself.
He was promoted to the rank of captain of Yijun, and soon he was appointed as the captain of Shuqiang.
He was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou. He served for three years and was promoted to Da Si Nong.
He was changed to the governor of Manye and general Yingyang was appointed, but he resolutely declined.
Taichang Shengsai and General Zuo Industrial Control persuaded him to take office. The emperor was urging him urgently, but he refused to take office claiming that he was ill.
When King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and sent someone to summon He Pan, he increasingly said that he was seriously ill.
Sima Lun was angry and wanted to kill him, so he had no choice but to answer the call despite being sick.
Died in Luoyang at the age of fifty-eight.
He Pan was fair-minded, serious as an official, appreciative of people, respecting Confucianism and loving talents.
Ren Liang and Yizhou Zhongzheng cited buried talents.
Chen Shou, Yan Yi, and Jianwei Feili were all famous figures in Xizhou. They were slandered by the villagers and criticized for more than ten years.
He Pan can clarify the right and wrong and clear up the wrongdoing.
Although He Pan held a high position, his family was very poor. He had no concubines, maids, dancing girls or musical instruments, so he only did charity work for the poor.
His son, He Zhang, also inherited his father's legacy.
Shi Chen said: King You and King Li of Zhou lost their status as kings, but the virtuous ones still had the heart to do good; while Gonggong and Jidou were in power, the Holy Saint could not bear it.
What's more, a person with lofty ideals and benevolence will just agree with it casually!
Being favored by the monarch and being given an official rank means thinking about his survival.
Although the hundred swords are decorated with gold, caressed by the light, and reported to the court, they are still trampled by defeated chariots. It is not easy to admonish the king, but it is really difficult to ridicule the courtiers.
Liu Yi encountered tolerance, and Ren Kai and He Wei were slandered twice. After observing the remaining brave men in detail, they each had their own ideas.
For example, Wu Ye still regarded himself as a minister of Wei, Cui Hong liked him but talked about the truth, Liu Tun advised Wang Mi to dominate, and He Pan obeyed the orders of King Sima Lun. To know the character of a gentleman, you can see how he handles things.
Praise says: When Zhongxiong first took office, his loyalty spread throughout the court.
Compared with Zhuge Liang, he compared the emperor to Emperor Huan and Emperor Mo Ling of Han Dynasty.
Guo Yi criticized Yang Jun, and Ren Kai condemned Jia Chong.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
和氏条暢，堪施大厦。
崔门不谒，声飞朝野。
侯史、武陔，辅佐之才。
何攀平允，冤滥多回。
translation: 
The bridges are smooth and can be used as pillars.
No one paid a private visit to Cui Hong, but his reputation spread throughout the government and the public.
Hou Shiguang and Wu Ye were also talented assistants.
Wherever there is fairness, injustice and cruelty are often corrected.


