Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘表字景升，山阳高平人，鲁恭王之后也。
身长八尺余，姿貌温伟。
与同郡张俭等俱被讪议，号为 八顾 ，诏书捕案党人，表亡走得免。
党禁解，辟大将军何进掾。
初平元年，长沙太守孙坚杀荆州刺史王，诏书以表为蒯州刺史。
时，江南宗贼大盛，又袁术阻兵屯鲁阳，表不能得至，乃单马入宜城，请南郡人荆越、襄阳人蔡瑁与共谋画。
表谓越曰： 宗贼虽盛而众不附，若袁术因之，祸必至矣。
吾欲征兵，恐不能集，其策焉出？
对曰： 理平者先仁义，理乱者先权谋。
兵不在多，贵乎得人。
袁术骄而无谋，宗贼率多贪暴。
越有所素养者，使人示之以利，必持众来。
使君诛其无道，施其才用，威德既行，襁负而至矣。
translation: 
Liu Biao, courtesy name Jingsheng, was born in Gaoping, Shanyang, and was a descendant of King Lu Gong.
Liu Biao was more than eight feet tall, with a gentle appearance and a burly build.
Together with Zhang Jian and others from the same county, he was slandered and discussed as "Ba Gu". The emperor issued an edict to arrest the party members and punish them, but Liu Biao escaped without being caught.
After the party ban was lifted, Liu Biao was summoned by General He Jin as an assistant.
In the first year of Chuping, Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, killed Wang Xu, the governor of Jingzhou, and issued an edict appointing Liu Biao as the governor of Jingzhou.
At that time, there were many bandits of the same clan in the south of the Yangtze River, and Yuan Shu's troops were stationed in Luyang to block the road. Liu Biao could not reach Jingzhou, so he rode into Yicheng alone and invited Kuai Yue from Nanjun and Cai Mao from Xiangyang to discuss countermeasures.
Liu Biao said to Kuai Yue: Although there are many thieves in the same clan, no one will join them. If Yuan Jie takes advantage of them, disaster will inevitably come.
I want to recruit troops, but I'm worried that I can't combine them. What strategy should I use?
Kuai Yue replied: When governing peace, benevolence and righteousness should be the first priority; when governing war, the first priority should be to use contingency strategies.
The army does not have a large number of people, the important thing is to get the right talents.
Yuan Shu was proud and had no strategy, and most of the thieves gathered from his own clan were greedy and cruel.
Among them are people who I usually support. If I send someone to tell them the benefits, they will definitely lead their troops over.
You kill the cruel ones among them and appoint the talented ones among them. Once your prestige and kindness are established, people will come to you carrying their children in swaddling clothes.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
兵集众附，南据江陵，北守襄阳，荆州八郡可传檄而定。
公路虽至，无能为也。
表曰： 善。
乃使赵遣人诱宗贼帅，至者十五人，皆斩之而袭取其众。
唯江夏贼张虎、陈坐拥兵据襄阳城，表使越与庞季往譬之，乃降。
江南悉平。
诸守令闻表威名，多解印绶去。
表遂理兵襄阳，以观时变。
袁术与其从兄绍有隙，而绍与表相结，故术共孙坚合从袭表。
表败，坚遂围襄阳。
会表将黄祖救至，坚为流箭所中死，余众退走。
及李等入长安，冬，表遣使奉贡。
傕以表为镇南将军、荆州牧，封成武侯，假节，以为己援。
建安元年，骠骑将军张济自关中走南阳，因攻穰城，中飞矢而死。
荆州官属皆贺。
表曰： 济以穷来，主人无礼，至于交锋，此非牧意，牧受吊不受贺也。
使人纳其众，众闻之喜，遂皆服从。
三年，长沙太守张羡率零陵、桂阳三郡畔表，表遣兵攻围，破羡，平之。
于是开土遂广，南接五领，北据汉川，地方数千里，带甲十余万。
初，荆州人情好扰，加四方骇震，寇贼相扇，处处麋沸。
表招诱有方，威怀兼洽，其奸猾宿贼更为效用，万里肃清，大小咸悦而服之。
关西、兗、豫学士归者盖有千数，表安尉赈赡，皆得资全。
遂起立学校，博求儒术，綦母闿、宋忠等撰立《五经》章句，谓之《后定》。
爱民养士，从容自保。
及曹操与袁绍相持于官度，绍遣人求助，表许之，不至，亦不援曹操，且欲观天下之变。
从事中郎南阳韩嵩、别驾刘先说表曰： 今豪桀并争，两雄相持，天下之重在于将军。
translation: 
The soldiers gathered and the people surrendered. Jiangling was captured in the south and Xiangyang was defended in the north. The eight counties under Jingzhou's jurisdiction could be pacified with a single proclamation.
Even if Yuan Gongli arrives, there is nothing he can do.
Liu Biao said: Yes.
So he asked Kuai Yue to send people to lure the leaders of thieves from his own tribe. Fifteen people came, killed them all and captured their tribes by surprise.
Only when the Jiangxia thieves Zhang Hu and Chen Li gathered their troops to occupy Xiangyang City, and Liu Biao sent Kuai Yue and Pang Ji to inform them, did they surrender.
Everything south of the Yangtze River was pacified.
Many prefects and county magistrates heard about Liu Biao's reputation, and many of them took off their seals and ribbons and left.
Liu Hu then organized his troops in the fortress area to observe changes in the current situation.
There was a gap between Yuan Shu and his cousin Yuan Shao, and Yuan Shao was friends with Liu Biao, so Yuan Shu and Sun Jian jointly attacked Liu Biao from the north and south.
Liu Biao was defeated, and Sun Jian then surrounded Xiangyang.
Just as Liu Biao's general Huang Zu came to rescue him, Sun Jian was shot by a stray arrow and died, and the rest of the people retreated.
When Li Cui and others entered Chang'an, in winter, Liu Biao sent envoys to pay tribute to the emperor.
Li Ji appointed Liu Biao as the General of Zhennan and the Shepherd of Jingzhou, and made him a Marquis of Wu, holding the Emperor's Talisman as his aid.
In the first year of Jian'an, the hussar general Zhang Ji fled from Guanzhong to Nanyang, attacked Lucheng along the way, and was shot to death by a flying arrow.
Officials and subordinates from Jingzhou came to celebrate.
Liu Biao said: Zhang Ji came because he was in embarrassment, and the master did not treat him politely, which resulted in a fight. It was not my idea to send him away. I accept condolences but not congratulations.
He sent people to receive Zhang Ji's troops. The soldiers were very happy and surrendered to Liu Biao.
In the third year, Zhang Xian, the governor of Changsha, led Lingling and Guiyang counties to betray Liu Biao. Liu Biao sent troops to besiege him, defeated Zhang Xian and pacified these areas.
In this way, the area that Liu Biao expanded was very wide. It connected with Wuling in the south and Han in the north. It was thousands of miles in radius and had more than 100,000 armored warriors.
At first, the people in Jingzhou were prone to harassment. In addition, there was shock and fear in all directions, and bandits were rampant, so there was turmoil everywhere.
Liu Biao summoned and persuaded well, and used force and appeasement in a coordinated manner. Among the thieves, the cunning and cunning old thief even helped him, and he leveled everything within ten thousand miles. Everyone, young and old, was convinced by him.
Thousands of scholars and literati from Guanxi, Yanzhou, and Yuzhou came to seek refuge. Liu Biao gave comfort and relief, and these people were fully supported.
So Liu Biao established a school and extensively visited people with Confucianism. People like Qi Muhe, Song Zhong and others wrote chapters and sentences of the "Five Classics", which is called Houding.
Liu Biao cared for the people, supported the scholars, and calmly defended Jingzhou.
When Cao Cao and Yuan Shao were confronting each other in Guandu, Yuan Shao sent people to ask for help. Liu Biao agreed, but he did not send troops or reinforce Cao Cao, and wanted to wait and see the changes in the world.
Han Song, a Nanyang native, and Liu Xian, a lieutenant in charge, persuaded Liu Biao: Now heroes are competing with each other, two powerful people are confronting each other, and the key to the world lies with you.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
若欲有为，起乘其敝可也；如其不然，固将择所宜从。岂可拥甲十万，坐观成败，求援而不能助，见贤而不肯归！
此两怨必集于将军，恐不得中立矣。
曹操善用兵，且贤俊多归之，其势必举袁绍，然后移兵以向江汉，恐将军不能御也。
今之胜计，莫若举荆州以附曹操，操必重德将军，长享福祚，垂之后嗣，此万全之策也。
蒯越亦劝之。
表狐疑不断，乃遣嵩诣操，观望虚实。
谓嵩曰： 今天下未知所定，而曹操拥天子都许，君为我观其衅。
嵩对曰： 嵩观曹公之明，必得志于天下。
将军若欲归之，使嵩可也；如其犹豫，嵩至京师，天子假嵩一职，不获辞命，则成天子之臣，将军之故吏耳。
在君为君，不复为将军死也。
惟加重思。
表以为惮使，强之。
至许，果拜嵩侍中、零陵太守。
translation: 
If you want to make a difference, raising troops when they are tired is a feasible way; if you don't want to do this, you must choose appropriate measures. How can you have an army of 100,000, sit back and watch the success or failure of others, refuse to rescue others when they ask for help, and refuse to submit to wise people when you see them!
In this way, the resentment of both parties will be concentrated on you, and I'm afraid it will be impossible for you to obtain neutrality.
Cao Cao is good at using troops, and most of the wise and outstanding people defect to Cao Cao. This situation will definitely defeat Yuan Shao, and then mobilize his troops to attack the Yangtze River and Han River area. I am afraid that the general will not be able to resist.
The best way at the moment is to surrender the entire Jingzhou to Cao Cao. Cao Cao must value the grateful general. You can enjoy the status of fortune and wealth for a long time and pass it on to future generations. This is an extremely perfect strategy.
Kuai Yue also tried to persuade Liu Biao.
But Liu Biao was hesitant and sent Han Song to Cao Cao to see what was going on.
Liu Biao said to Han Song: Now I don't know who can pacify the world, but Cao Cao supports the emperor to make Xu County his capital. You can go and see the truth for me.
Han Song replied: In my opinion, with Cao Gong's wisdom, he will definitely be able to realize his wish to unify the world.
If the general wants to submit to Cao Cao, he can send me. If he is undecided, I go to the capital and the emperor offers me an official position. If my refusal is not accepted, then I will become the emperor's minister and the general's former subordinate.
When you are with the Emperor, you will be loyal to the Emperor, and I will no longer devote myself to you.
I hope you reconsider.
Liu Biao thought that he was afraid of sending an envoy and forced him to go.
After arriving in Xu County, the emperor appointed Han Song as his minister and prefect of Lingling.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
及还，盛称朝廷曹操之德，劝遣子入侍。
表大怒，以为怀贰，陈兵诟嵩，将斩之。
嵩不为动容，徐陈临行之言。
表妻蔡氏知嵩贤，谏止之。
表犹怒，乃考杀从行者。
知无他意，但囚嵩而已。
六年，刘备自袁绍奔荆州，表厚相待结而不能用也。
十三年，曹操自将征表，未至。
八月，表疽发背卒。
在荆州几二十年，家无余积。
二子：琦、琮。
表初以琦貌类于己，甚爱之，后为琮娶其后妻蔡氏之侄，蔡氏遂爱琮而恶琦，毁誉之言日闻于表。
表宠耽后妻，每信受焉。
又妻弟蔡瑁及外甥张允并得幸于表，又睦于琮。
而琦不自宁，尝与琅邪人诸葛亮谋自安之术。
亮初不对。
后乃共升高楼，因令去悌，谓亮曰： 今日上不至天，下不至地，言出子口而入吾耳，可以言未？
亮曰： 君不见申生在内而危，重耳居外而安乎？
琦意感悟，阴规出计。会表将江夏太守黄祖为孙权所杀，琦遂求代其任。
及表病甚，琦归省疾，素慈孝，允等恐其见表而父子相感，更有托后之意，乃谓琦曰： 将军命君抚临江夏，其任至重。
translation: 
After returning, Han Song strongly praised the kindness of the emperor and Cao Cao, and persuaded Liu Biao to send his son to serve.
Liu Biao was furious, thinking that Han Song had double-minded intentions, so he displayed his troops, insulted Han Song, and prepared to kill him.
Han Song's expression remained unchanged as he slowly recounted what he had said before leaving.
Liu Biao's wife Cai knew Han Song's virtues and dissuaded Liu Biao.
Liu Biao was still furious, so he tortured and killed Han Song's entourage.
Liu Biao learned that Han Song had no other intention but to imprison him.
In the sixth year, Liu Bei came from Yuan Shao and defected to Jingzhou. Liu Biao treated Liu Bei favorably and made friends with him, but he could not use him.
In the thirteenth year, Cao Cao personally led an army to conquer Liu Biao but did not reach Jingzhou.
In August, Liu Biao died of malignant sores on his back.
Liu Biao had been in Jingzhou for nearly twenty years, and his family had no extra savings.
Liu Biao had two sons: Liu Qi and Liu Cong.
At first, Liu Biao thought Liu Qi looked like him and liked him very much. Later, he married Liu Cong's niece, Cai's niece. Cai then liked Liu Cong and hated Liu Qi. Liu Biao heard words slandering Liu Qi and praising Liu Cong every day.
Liu Biao loved his second wife deeply, so he believed and accepted these words every time.
In addition, Liu Biao's brother-in-law Cai Mao and nephew Zhang Yun were both placed in important positions by Liu Biao, and they were also close friends with Liu Cong.
Liu Qi felt that he was not safe and once discussed with Zhuge Liang, a man from Langxie, how to protect himself.
Zhuge Liang didn't answer at first.
Later, the two climbed up the tall building together, and then Liu Qi asked someone to take away the ladder. He said to Zhuge Liang: Today, the sky can't be seen from the top, and the ground can't be seen from the bottom. The words that came out of your mouth reached my ears. Can you speak?
Zhuge Liang said: "Don't you see that Shen Sheng is in danger at home and Chong'er is safe when he lives abroad?"
Liu Qi realized in his heart and secretly planned a way out. It happened that Huang Zu, the governor of Jiangxia under Liu Biao, was killed by Sun Quan, so Liu Qi asked to take over the position.
When Liu Biao was seriously ill, Liu Qi came back to visit him. Because Liu Qi was kind and filial by nature, Zhang Yun and others were afraid that they would have a father-son relationship after seeing Liu Biao. Liu Biao once again wanted to let him succeed, so he said to Liu Qi: The general has ordered you to govern Jiangxia. This responsibility is of great importance.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
今释众擅来，必见谴怒。
伤亲之欢，重增其疾，非孝敬之道也。
遂遏于户外，使不得见。
琦流涕而去，人众闻而伤焉。
遂以琮为嗣。
琮以侯印授琦。琦怒，投之地，将因奔丧作难。
会曹操军至新野，琦走江南。
蒯越、韩嵩及东曹掾傅巽等说琮归降。
琮曰： 今与诸君据全楚之地，守先君之业，以观天下，何为不可？
巽曰： 逆顺有大体，强弱有定势。
以人臣而拒人主，逆道也；以新造之楚而御中国，必危也；以刘备而敌曹公，不当也。
三者皆短，欲以抗王师之锋，必亡之道也。
将军自料何与刘备？
琮曰： 不若也。
巽曰： 诚以刘备不足御曹公，则虽全楚不能以自存也。
诚以刘备足御曹公，则备不为将军下也。
愿将军勿疑。
及操军到襄阳，琮举州请降，刘备奔夏口。
操以琮为青州刺史，封列侯。
蒯越等侯者十五人。
乃释嵩之囚，以其名重，甚加礼待，使条品州人优劣，皆擢而用之。
以嵩为大鸿胪，以交友礼待之。
蒯越光禄勋，刘先尚书令。
初，表之结袁绍也，侍中从事邓义谏不听。义以疾退，终表世不仕，操以为侍中，其余多至大官。
操后败于赤壁，刘备表琦为荆州刺史。
明年卒。
论曰： 袁绍初以豪侠得众，遂怀雄霸之图，天下胜兵举旗者，莫不假以为名。
translation: 
If you leave your subordinates and come here without permission, you will definitely be scolded.
It is not filial piety to ruin your father's interest and aggravate his illness.
So he blocked the door and prevented him from seeing Liu Biao.
Liu Qi left in tears, and many people sighed after hearing this.
In this way, Liu Cong succeeded to the throne.
Liu Cong awarded Liu Qi the seal of the feudal lords. Liu Qi became angry and threw the seal to the ground, preparing to take advantage of the funeral to make trouble.
Just as Cao Cao's army arrived in Xinye, Liu Qi fled to the south of the Yangtze River.
Kuai Yue, Han Song and Dong Cao's Fu Xun persuaded Liu Cong to surrender to Cao Cao.
Liu Cong said: Now that I have the entire territory of Chu State with you, I can preserve the career of the late emperor and use it to observe the situation in the world. Why not?
Fu Xun said: There are important principles for rebellion and surrender, and there are certain situations between strong and weak.
It is rebellious to fight against the emperor as a minister; to rely on the newly created Chu land to resist the central power will be dangerous; to antagonize Cao Gong for Liu Bei's sake is not worth it.
These three aspects are all shortcomings, and if you want to use them to resist the king's army, this is the road to inevitable destruction.
How does the general compare with Liu Bei?
Liu Cong said: I am not as good as him.
Fu Xun said: If Liu Bei's ability is not enough to resist Duke Cao, then even if he owns the entire Chu land, he cannot protect himself.
If Liu Bei is strong enough to resist Duke Cao, then Liu Bei will not be under your control.
I hope the general won't doubt it.
When Cao Cao's army reached Xiangyang, Liu Cong asked for the surrender of the entire Jingzhou, and Liu Bei rushed to Xiakou.
Cao Cao appointed Liu Cong as the governor of Qingzhou and made him a marquis.
Fifteen people including Kuai Yue were granted the title of marquis.
Then Cao Cao released Han Song from prison. Because of his high reputation, he treated him with special courtesy and asked him to list the talents in Jingzhou. All those he recommended were promoted and appointed.
Appoint Han Song as Da Honglu and treat him as a friend.
Kuai Yue was appointed Guang Luxun, and Liu Xian was appointed Shangshu Ling.
At first, Liu Biao made friends with Yuan Shao, but Deng Yi tried to dissuade him from doing so, but Liu Biao refused to listen. Deng Yi resigned on the pretext of illness and did not serve as an official while Liu Biao was alive. Cao Cao appointed him as a servant. Many others have become high-ranking officials.
Cao Cao was later defeated in Chibi, and Liu Bei wrote a letter recommending Liu Qi to be the historian of Jing.
He died the following year.
The argument goes: Yuan Shao initially won many people because of his heroic and chivalrous behavior, so he had the intention of becoming the hegemon. All the people in the world who could serve as soldiers and hold high the banner were all in the name of the Yuan family.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
及临场决敌，则悍夫争命；深筹高议，则智士倾心。
盛哉乎，其所资也！
《韩非》曰： 佷刚而不和，愎过而好胜，嫡子轻而庶子重，斯之谓亡征。
刘表道不相越，而欲卧收天运，拟踪三分，其犹木禺之于人也。
选曰：绍姿弘雅，表亦长者。
称雄河外，擅强南夏。
鱼俪汉舳，云屯冀马。
窥图讯鼎，禋天类社。既云天工，亦资人亮。
矜强少成，坐谈奚望。
回皇冢嬖，身穨业丧。
translation: 
When it comes to a decisive battle with the enemy on the battlefield, the brave people will fight for him; if there is foresight behind the curtain, the wise people will plan for him.
How powerful are the conditions on which he relies!
Han Fei said: Being fierce but not gentle, insisting on going your own way when it comes to mistakes and liking to fight for victory, despising the son born from a legitimate wife and valuing the son born from a concubine, this can be said to be a sign of destruction.
Liu Biao's morality was not higher than that of others, but he was as stupid as a puppet if he wanted to lie down and accept the fate of God and imitate the three-part world.
Praising: Yuan Shao has a magnanimous and elegant appearance, and Liu Biao is also considered a loyal elder.
One dominates north of the Yellow River, and the other shows off his strength in the southern part of the Central Plains.
The warships in Han River are as dense as a school of fish, and the war horses in Jizhou are as numerous as clouds.
From this, I wanted to spy on the prophecies, aspire to the throne, worship heaven, and worship the gods of society. Although it was said that it was God's will, it also relied on human faith.
People who rely on their own strength rarely succeed. What can people who sit and talk talk expect?
Uncertainty in choosing between legitimate son and favor leads to ruin of reputation and ruin of career.


