Chunk 0: 
original: 
凡货，金、钱、布、帛之用，夏、殷以前其详靡记云。
太公为周立九府圜法：黄金方寸而重一斤；钱圜函方，轻重以铢；布、帛广二尺二寸为幅，长四丈为匹。
故货宝于金，利于刀，流于泉，布于布，束于帛。
太公退，又行之于齐。
至管仲相桓公，通轻重之权，曰： 岁有凶穰，故谷有贵贱；令有缓急，故物有轻重。
人君不理，则畜贾游于市，乘民之不给，百倍其本矣。
故万乘之国必有万金之贾，千乘之国必有千金之贾者，利有所并也。
计本量委则足矣，然而民有饥饿者，谷有所臧也。
民有余则轻之，故人君敛之以轻；民不足则重之，故人君散之以重。
凡轻重敛散之以时，即准平。
守准平，使万室之邑必有万钟之臧，臧繦千万；千室之邑必有千钟之臧，臧繦百万。
春以奉耕，夏以奉耘，耒耜器械，种饷粮食，必取澹焉。
故大贾畜家不得豪夺吾民矣。
桓公遂用区区之齐合诸侯，显伯名。
其后百余年，周景王时患钱轻，将更铸大钱，单穆公曰： 不可。
古者天降灾戾，于是乎量资币，权轻重，以救民。
民患轻，则为之作重币以行之，于是有母权子而行，民皆得焉。
若不堪重，则多作轻而行之，亦不废重，于是乎有子权母而行，小大利之。
今王废轻而作重，民失其资，能无匮乎？
民若匮，王用将有所乏，乏将厚取于民，民不给，将有远志，是离民也。
且绝民用以实王府，犹塞川原为潢洿也，竭亡日矣。
王其图之。 弗听，卒铸大钱，文曰 宝货 ，肉好皆有周郭，以劝农澹不足，百姓蒙利焉。
translation: 
As for the uses of property, money, cloth and silk, their details are not recorded before the Xia and Yin Dynasties.
Jiang Taigong established the method of currency circulation in the nine prefectures for the Zhou Dynasty: gold is one inch square and weighs one catty; coins are round and have square holes, and baht is used as the weight; cloth is two feet and two inches wide and is one piece, and four feet long is one piece.
Therefore, currency is more precious than gold, sharper than a knife, smoother than spring water, more dispersed than cloth, and more able to gather than silk.
After Jiang Taigong retreated to the feudal country, he implemented it in Qi.
When Guan Zhong assisted Duke Huan of Qi, he established the standard of measuring weight. He said: There are years of famine and years of harvest, so grains are expensive and cheap; orders are slow and urgent, so goods are light and heavy.
If the emperor does not govern, then the hoarding merchants will roam the market, and when the people cannot support themselves, they will raise the price to a hundred times the cost.
Therefore, a country with ten thousand cars must have merchants worth ten thousand gold to buy them, and a country with a thousand cars must have merchants worth ten thousand gold. This is because the profits are hidden.
If we consume what we produce, we will be able to meet our own expenses. However, if there are hungry people among the people, that is why the grain is hidden.
When the people have plenty, they despise grain, so the monarch levies a low price; when the people have a shortage, they value grain, so the monarch distributes it at a high price.
All low prices, high prices, collections, and distributions are all done at a certain time. Then supply and demand are adjusted, and prices will be stable.
Adhere to the measures of regulating supply and demand and stabilizing prices, so that a town with a population of ten thousand households must have a collection of ten thousand bells, and a string of money tied with millions of strings; a town with a population of only ten thousand households must have a collection of thousands of bells, and a string of money tied with millions of strings.
Farming is carried out in the spring, weeding is carried out in the summer, and the equipment and seeds must be abundant.
Therefore, big merchants and hoarding merchants cannot use their power to rob the people.
Duke Huan of Qi used the small state of Qi to unite the princes and promote his reputation as an overlord.
More than a hundred years later, when King Jing of Zhou Dynasty came to the throne, he was worried that the money was too light and planned to cast large coins instead. Duke Shan Mu said: "This won't work."
In ancient times, when disasters came from heaven, it was necessary to weigh property and currency to save the people.
The people think that money is light, so we create heavy money for them to use. In this way, big money and small money go hand in hand with heavy money being the main one, and the people can get convenience.
If heavy money cannot be used, make more light money for use, and do not abolish heavy money. Therefore, if the heavy money is insufficient, use light money to make up for it. Money and small money are mostly beneficial.
Now that the king has abolished light money and created heavy money, the people have lost their wealth. How can they not be in want?
If the people are in shortage, the king will have difficulty in spending money; if there is difficulty, he must collect more from the people; if the people cannot provide, they will flee. This is a way to separate the people.
Moreover, exhausting the people's wealth to enrich the palace is like blocking the water source to stop the flow of water. It will not take a few days for the water to dry up. Please make your decision, Your Majesty.
King Jing did not listen to his words, and finally made a large coin with "actual goods" engraved on it. The round edges and holes of the money had outlines, which were used to encourage farmers to make up for the shortage, and the people benefited.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
秦兼天下，币为二等：黄金以溢为名，上币；铜钱质如周钱，文曰 半两 ，重如其文。
而珠、玉、龟、贝、银、锡之属为器饰宝臧，不为币，然各随时而轻重无常。
汉兴，以为秦钱重难用，更令民铸荚钱。
黄金一斤。
而不轨逐利之民蓄积余赢以稽市，物痛腾跃，米至石万钱，马至匹百金。
天下已平，高祖乃令贾人不得衣丝乘车，重税租以困辱之。
孝惠、高后时，为天下初定，复弛商贾之律，然市井子孙亦不得为官吏。
孝文五年，为钱益多而轻，乃更铸四铢钱，其文为 半两 。
除盗铸钱令，使民放铸。
贾谊谏曰：法使天下公得顾租铸铜锡为钱，敢杂以铅铁为它巧者，其罪黥。
然铸钱之情，非杂为巧，则不可得赢；而之甚微，为利甚厚。
夫事有召祸而法有起奸，今令细民人操造币之势，各隐屏而铸作，因欲禁其厚利微奸，虽黥罪日报，其势不止。
乃者，民人抵罪，多者一县百数，及吏之所疑，榜笞奔走者甚众。
夫县法以诱民，使入陷井，孰积如此！
曩禁铸钱，死罪积下；今公铸钱，黥罪积下。
为法若此，上何赖焉？
又，民用钱，郡县不同：或用轻钱，百加若干；或用重钱，平称不受。
法钱不立，吏急而壹之虖，则大为烦苛，而力不能胜；纵而弗呵虖，则市肆异用，钱文大乱。
苟非其术，何乡而可哉！
今农事弃捐而采铜者日蕃，释其耒耨，冶熔炊炭；奸钱日多，五谷不为多；善人怵而为奸邪，愿民陷而之刑戮：将甚不详，奈何而忽！
国知患此，吏议必曰禁之。
禁之不得其术，其伤必大。
令禁铸钱，则钱必重。重则其利深，盗铸如云而起，弃市之罪又不足以禁矣！
奸数不胜而法禁数溃，铜使之然也。
故铜布于天下，其为祸博矣。
translation: 
When the Qin State annexed the world, its currency was divided into two classes: gold was measured in yi, which was the first-class currency; copper coins were shaped like the money of the Zhou Dynasty, with the inscription "ban liang" on the front and a weight of half a liang.
Pearls, jade, turtles, shells, silver and tin are used as decorations and treasures, not as currency, but they change at any time, and their weight has no rules.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, they thought that the Qin Dynasty coins were heavy and difficult to use, so they ordered the people to mint pod coins instead.
The unit of gold returned to the weekly system of kilograms.
Those who did not abide by the law and pursued profits used their own surplus to accumulate goods, so that the goods on the market accumulated in their own hands, causing prices to skyrocket. The price of rice reached ten thousand gold per stone, and a horse was worth one hundred gold.
After the world was peaceful, Emperor Gaozu ordered merchants not to wear silk and ride in carriages, and increased taxes to frustrate them.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, considering that the world had just stabilized, the laws on merchants were relaxed again, but the descendants of people in the market could not become officials.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, because the money was more abundant and lighter, four baht coins were minted, with the characters "banliang" on the front.
Abolish the law on stealing money and let the people mint it at will.
Jia Yi remonstrated and said: The law allows the world to openly hire people to make coins with copper and tin. Anyone who dares to mix lead and iron to commit adultery will be punished by tattooing.
But the situation with coining money is that if there is no doping, there will be no benefits; and the more subtle the doping, the more generous the benefits will be.
Things can bring disaster, and laws can cause evil. Now the common people can mint money, and they mint it in hiding, intending to prevent their huge profits and cunning. Even if they are sentenced to tattoos every day, this situation cannot stop.
Recently, the people have paid their share of the crime, with as many as a hundred people in one county. As for the officials who suspected it, many people were whipped and tortured and fled.
There is nothing more than making laws to seduce the people and make them fall into a trap!
In the past, it was forbidden to mint coins, and the death penalty was accumulated at the bottom; now that coins are minted openly, the crimes of tattooing are accumulated at the bottom.
In enacting such a law, what would the emperor rely on?
In addition, the coins used by the people vary from county to county: some use light money, plus a hundred plus a few; some use heavy money, even if the weight is the same, it cannot be accepted.
There is no place for coins formulated according to law. If officials are anxious, they should unify them, but it is too cumbersome and not powerful enough. If they are allowed to flow without punishment, then the coins will be extremely confusing if they are used differently in the market.
If there is no way to deal with this situation, people will not know where to go!
Nowadays, more and more people are giving up farming and mining copper. They put down their farm tools and use furnace charcoal to smelt money molds. The illegal money is increasing day by day, but the grain is not increasing. If kind people are tempted and go astray, and cautious people fall into punishment, the punishment will be very unfair. How can we ignore this!
The country knows that the worries are like this, and the officials must have discussed that it is forbidden to mint money.
Forbidding coining money is illegal and will cause great harm.
If there is an order to prohibit the minting of coins, then the coins must be valuable; if they are valuable, the benefits will be great. Secretly minting coins is like a cloud, and the crime of abandoning the market is not enough to prohibit it.
The evil has never been exhausted and the law has prohibited the collapse. This is caused by copper.
Copper is scattered all over the world, so the harm it causes is great.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今博祸可除，而七福可致也。
何谓七福？
上收铜勿令布，则民不铸钱，黥罪不积，一矣。
伪钱不蕃，民不相疑，二矣。
采铜铸作者反于耕田，三矣。
铜毕归于上，上挟铜积以御轻重，钱轻则以术敛之，重则以术散之，货物必平，四矣。
以作兵器，以假贵臣，多少有制，用别贵贱，五矣。
以临万货，以调盈虚，以收奇羡，则官富实而末民困，六矣。
制吾弃财，以与匈奴逐争其民，则敌必怀，七矣。
故善为天下者，因祸而为福，转败而为功。
今久退七福而行博祸，臣诚伤之。
上不听。
是时，吴以诸侯即山铸钱，富埒天子，后卒叛逆。
邓通，大夫也，以铸钱，财过王者。
故吴、邓钱布天下。
武帝因文、景之蓄，忿胡、粤之害，即位数年，严助、朱买臣等招徠东瓯，事两粤，江、淮之间萧然烦费矣。
唐蒙、司马相如始开西南夷，凿山通道千余里，以广巴、蜀，巴、蜀之民罢焉。
彭吴穿秽貊、朝鲜，置沧海郡，则燕、齐之间靡然发动。
及王恢谋马邑，匈奴绝和亲，侵扰北边，兵连而不解，天下共其劳。
干戈日滋，行者赍，居者送，中外骚扰相奉，百姓抏敝以巧法，财赂衰耗而不澹。
人物者补官，出货者除罪，选举陵夷，廉耻相冒，武力进用，法严令具。
兴利之臣自此而始。
其后，卫青岁以数万骑出击匈奴，遂取河南地，筑朔方。
时又通西南夷道，作者数万人，千里负担馈饷，率十余钟致一石，散币于邛、僰以辑之。
数岁而道不通，蛮夷因以数攻，吏发兵诛之。
translation: 
Now great disasters can be avoided and seven kinds of blessings can be obtained.
What are the seven blessings?
If the emperor collects copper and prevents it from being scattered, then the people will not mint money and the crime of tattooing will not increase. This is one kind.
There is not much fake money, and people do not doubt each other. This is the second type.
People who mine copper ore to mint money return to farming. This is the third type.
All copper is gathered in the emperor, and the emperor controls the weight by accumulating a lot of copper. If the coins are light, he will try to collect them. If the coins are heavy, he will try to distribute them. Money and things will definitely be balanced. This is the fourth.
It is used to make weapons, and it is used to give to noble ministers. There are some restrictions. Its use can distinguish the noble from the humble. This is the fifth.
It is used to monitor the market, adjust profits and losses, and collect surpluses. Then the government will be rich but the industrial and commercial people will be poor. This is the sixth type.
If we control our excess money and compete with the Xiongnu for its people, then the enemy will definitely surrender. This is the seventh way.
Therefore, those who are good at ruling the world can turn disaster into happiness and failure into success.
Now, the seven blessings have been suppressed for a long time and the great disaster has been allowed. I really feel sad for this.
The emperor did not listen to him.
At this time, Wu State relied on its status as a prince to mint coins in Shanhuo, and became richer than the emperor. Later, it finally became a rebellion.
Deng Tong was a great official. Because he minted coins, his wealth exceeded that of the king.
Therefore, the money of Wu and Deng Tong became popular all over the world.
Relying on the savings of Emperors Wen and Jing, Emperor Wu resented the harm caused by Hu and Guangdong. A few years after he ascended the throne, Yan Zhu, Zhu Maichen and others recovered Shuou and dealt with the two Guangdong. The Jianghuai issue was turbulent and cost a lot of money.
Tang Meng and Sima Xiangru began to open up the southwestern Yi. They dug mountains and opened more than a thousand miles of roads to expand Bashu. The people of Bashu were tired.
Peng Wu traveled through Huiqi and North Korea and established Canghai County. In this way, Yan and Qi successively launched catastrophes.
When Wang Hui set up a plan in Mayi, the Xiongnu broke off the peace and invaded the northern border. The war continued for many years, and the whole world was suffering from it.
The number of wars increased day by day. Those who traveled far away took their luggage with them, and those who did not leave went to see each other off. Internal and external harassments were connected, and the people were in decline. They had to resort to deception to avoid criminal laws, and the loss of property caused shortages.
Those who pay money can be replaced by official positions, and those who contribute money can be exempted from punishment. Elections are declining, integrity is ignored, force is used, and laws are strict.
This is where the profit-seeking ministers began.
After that, Wei Qing used tens of thousands of cavalry to attack the Xiongnu every year, and then captured the area south of Hetao and built Shuofang City.
At that time, the southwestern barbarian channel was opened, and tens of thousands of people were working. They carried the army's supplies thousands of miles. It took about ten minutes to send one stone. Coins were distributed in Gongkou and Jiaocheng to recruit people.
A few years later, the roads were still blocked, and the barbarians attacked several times. The officials sent troops to kill them.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
悉巴、蜀租赋不足以更之，乃募豪民田南夷，入粟县官，而内受钱于都内。
东置沧海郡，人徒之费疑于南夷。
又兴十余万人筑卫朔方，转漕甚远，自山东咸被其劳，费数十百巨万，府库并虚。
乃募民能人奴婢得以终身复，为郎增秩，及入羊为郎，始于此。
此后四年，卫青比岁十余万众击胡，斩捕首虏之士受赐黄金二十余万斤，而汉军士马死者十余万，兵甲转漕之费不与焉。
于是大司农陈臧钱经用赋税既竭，不足以奉战士。
有司请令民得买爵及赎禁锢免减罪；请置赏官，名曰武功爵，级十七万，凡值三十余万金。
诸买武功爵 官首 者试补吏，先除； 千夫 如王大夫；其有罪又减二等；爵得至 乐卿 。以显军功。
军功多用超等，大者封侯、卿大夫，小者郎。
吏道杂而多端，则官职秏废。
自公孙弘以《春秋》之义绳臣下取汉相，张汤以峻文决理为廷尉，于是见知之法生，而废格、沮诽穷治之狱用矣。
其明年，淮南、衡山、江都王谋反迹见，而公卿寻端治之，竟其党与，坐而死者数万人，吏益惨急而法令察。
当是时，招尊方正贤良文学之士，或至公卿大夫。
公孙弘以实相，布被，食不重味，为下先，然而无益于俗，稍务于功利矣。
其明年，票骑仍再出击胡，大克获。
浑邪王率数万众来降，于是汉发车三万两迎之。
既至，受赏，赐及有功之士。
是岁费凡百余巨万。
先是十余岁，河决，灌梁、楚地，固已数困，而缘河之郡堤塞河，辄坏决，费不可胜计。
其后番系欲省底柱之漕，穿汾、河渠以为溉田；郑当时为渭漕回远，凿漕直渠自长安至华阴；而朔方亦穿溉渠。
作者各数万人，历二三期而功未就，费亦各以巨万十数。
天子为伐胡故，盛养马，马之往来食长安者数万匹，卒掌者关中不足，乃调旁近郡。
translation: 
After all the rents from Ba and Shu were insufficient to cover the expenses, they recruited wealthy people to farm in Nanyi, handed over millet to the local government, and received millet money from the capital.
Canghai County was established in Shumian, and the cost of personnel was comparable to that of Nanyi.
More than 100,000 people were mobilized to build a city to guard Shuofang. The water transportation was quite far. Starting from Shandong, the people had to suffer from fatigue, spending hundreds of thousands to tens of billions, and the treasury was even more empty.
The emperor called on the people who could provide slaves and maids to be exempted from taxes or labor for life, and those who were men could have their salaries increased. Accepting sheep to serve as Langguan began at this time.
For the next four years, Wei Qing led more than 100,000 people to attack the Xiongnu every year. The reward for killing and capturing the enemy soldiers was more than 200,000 catties of gold. However, more than 100,000 soldiers and horses of the Han Dynasty died, and the cost of weapons, boring armor, and transportation of grain was not included.
So Da Sinong reported that the usual money and taxes had been used up and were not enough to pay the soldiers.
Relevant officials asked for instructions so that people could buy titles and use money in exchange for exemption or reduction of the criminal penalties that prohibited industrial and commercial people from serving as officials; they also asked for the establishment of a rewarded official position, called Wugongjue, with each level worth 170,000 yuan, and a total value of more than 300,000 gold.
Anyone who buys a martial arts title will first try to confer it; the thousand-fu martial arts title is the same as the five great officers; if convicted, it will be reduced by two ranks; if you buy a title, you can go to the Leqing martial arts title to highlight military merit.
Most of the military merits are given by super-level awards, such as the title of marquis and minister for great achievements, and the title of Lang for minor achievements.
The official career is complicated and there are many clues, so the official position will be chaotic.
From the time when Gongsun Hong used the moral principles of the Spring and Autumn Annals to restrain his ministers and became the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, and when Zhang Tang judged lawsuits with harsh and stringent laws and became a court lieutenant, officials knew that others had committed crimes but did not report them.
A year later, signs of conspiracy by the kings of Huainan, Hengshan, and Jiangdu were discovered. The ministers looked for Mansuo to review the case and pursue their accomplices. Tens of thousands of people were sentenced to death. The officials used more ruthless methods and the laws became stricter.
At this time, scholars who respected the upright, virtuous, and literary were recruited, and some of them became ministers and officials.
Gongsun Hong used his position as prime minister, covered himself with cloth quilts, and did not eat many kinds of dishes as an example for the world. However, it did not benefit the folk customs and was only slightly beneficial to utilitarianism.
Another year passed, and the hussar general sent troops to attack the Huns again and won a great victory.
King Hunxie led tens of thousands of people to surrender, so the Han Dynasty sent 30,000 chariots to meet them.
After arriving, they were given rewards, including those who had meritorious service.
A total of more than 10 billion was spent this year.
More than ten years before this, the Yellow River burst and flooded the Liang and Chu regions. It had been in trouble several times, and the counties and counties next to the Yellow River built embankments to block the Yellow River breach, but it soon collapsed again, costing countless people.
After that, Fan Xi planned to save the water in the bottom pillar and use the canal connecting Fenshui and Yellow River to irrigate the fields. Zheng Zheng believed that the water transportation of Wei River was long and winding, so he dug a straight canal from Chang'an to Huayin; and Shuofang was also opening irrigation canals.
There were tens of thousands of people working on each project, and it took two or three years without success, and each cost billions of dollars.
Because of the attack on the Xiongnu, the emperor raised a large number of horses. Tens of thousands of horses traveled to Chang'an to obtain feed. The horse herders saw that Guanzhong was insufficient, so they transferred to the counties nearby Chang'an.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
而胡降者数万人皆得厚赏，衣食仰给县官，县官不给，天子乃损膳，解乘舆驷，出御府禁臧以澹之。
其明年，山东被水灾，民多饥乏，于是天子遣使虚郡国仓廪以振贫。
犹不足，又募豪富人相假贷。
尚不能相救，乃徙贫民于关以西，及充朔方以南新秦中，七十余万口，衣食皆仰给于县官。
数岁贷与产业，使者分部护，冠盖相望，费以亿计，县官大空。
而富商贾或滞财役贫，转毂百数，废居居邑，封君皆氐首仰给焉。
冶铸煮盐，财或累万金，而不佐公家之急，黎民重困。
于是天子与公卿议，更造钱币以澹用，而摧浮淫并兼之徒。
是时禁苑有白鹿而少府多银、锡。
自孝文更造四铢钱，至是岁四十余年，从建元以来，用少，县官往往即多铜山而铸钱，民亦盗铸，不可胜数。
钱益多而轻，物益少而贵。
有司言曰： 古者皮币，诸侯以聘享。
金有三等，黄金为上，白金为中，赤金为下。
今半两钱法重四铢，而奸或盗摩钱质而取鋊，钱益轻薄而物贵，则远方用币烦费不省。
乃以白鹿皮方尺，缘以缋，为皮币，值四十万。
王侯、宗室朝觐、聘享，必以皮币荐璧，然后得行。
又造银锡白金。
以为天用莫如龙，地用莫如马，人用莫如龟，故白金三品：其一曰重八两，圜之，其文龙，名 白撰 ，值三千；二曰以重养小，方之，其文马，值五百；三曰复小，橢之，其文龟，值三百。
令县官销半两钱，更铸三铢钱，重如其文。
盗铸诸金钱罪皆死，而吏民之犯者不可胜数。
translation: 
The tens of thousands of people who surrendered to the Xiongnu received generous rewards, and relied on government supplies for food and clothing. When the government's supplies were insufficient, the emperor reduced the meals, untied the horses from the carriages, and provided them with the property collected by the imperial palace.
Another year later, Shanshu suffered from floods and many people were hungry and exhausted. So the emperor sent envoys to use up all the food in the county's warehouses to help the poor.
If it still wasn't enough, he called in rich people to borrow money.
Still unable to save these people, they moved the poor to the west of Guan and supplemented them to Xinqin south of Shuofang. There were more than 700,000 people who relied on government supplies for food and clothing.
For several years, money was lent to production and operations, and envoys were escorted in batches, connected by cars in front and back, spending hundreds of millions, leaving the government with a huge emptiness.
Some wealthy merchants hoard goods and serve the poor, transporting them with hundreds of vehicles. Some of them live in the city and hoard goods, buying at low prices and selling at high prices. The monarchs of the feudal states bow their heads and rely on their supply.
Smelting steel, casting utensils, and boiling salt, some accumulated wealth worth tens of thousands of gold, but without supporting the government's difficulties, the people became even more miserable.
So the emperor discussed with the ministers to change the coins to supplement the expenses, in order to combat those who were arrogant and extravagant and occupied other people's property.
At this time, there were white deer in the Imperial Garden and there was a lot of silver and tin in the Shaofu Palace.
It has been more than 40 years since Emperor Xiaowen reformed the four-baht coin. Since the founding of the Yuan Dynasty, very little has been in circulation. The government often went to the copper-rich mountains to mint coins, and the common people also minted coins secretly, which is incalculable.
The more money, the lighter it is; the less material things are, the more expensive they are.
Relevant officials said: In the past, they were leather coins, which the princes used to greet each other and pay tribute to the emperor.
There are three grades of gold, gold is the upper grade, silver is the middle grade, and copper is the lower grade.
Nowadays, the legal weight of half a tael of money is four baht, but some evil people secretly grind the money to obtain copper shavings. The money is thinner and the material is more valuable. People in distant places spend no less on using coins.
Just use the skin of a white deer, one foot square, and paint the edges with five colors to make a leather coin, worth 400,000 yuan.
When princes and clans met with the emperor to greet each other and pay tribute to the emperor, they must express their allegiance with leather coins before they could pass.
Currency made of silver-tin alloy is called platinum.
It is believed that nothing is better for heaven than a dragon, for earth nothing is better than a horse, and for humans there is nothing better than a tortoise. Therefore, there are three grades of platinum: one weighs eight taels, is round, and has a dragon pattern on its front, which is called Bai Zhuan, and is worth three thousand; one is slightly lighter, square, and has a horse pattern on its front, and is worth five hundred; and one is smaller, oval, and has a turtle pattern on its front, and is worth three hundred.
Order the government to destroy half of the two coins and recast three baht coins so that the weight is the same as the one engraved on it.
Those who secretly minted various kinds of money were punished with death, and countless officials and citizens broke the law.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
于是以东郭咸阳、孔仅为大农丞，领盐铁事，而桑弘羊贵幸。
咸阳，齐之大煮盐；孔仅，南阳大冶，皆至产累千金，故郑当时进言之。
弘羊，洛阳贾人之子。以心计，年十三侍中。
故三人言利事析秋豪矣。
法既益严，吏多废免。
兵革数动，民多买复及五大夫、千夫，征发之士益鲜。
于是除千夫、五大夫为吏，不欲者出马；故吏皆適令伐棘上林，作昆明池。
其明年，大将军、票骑大出击胡，赏赐五十万金，军马死者十余万匹，转漕、车甲之费不与焉。
是时财匮，战士颇不得禄矣。
有司言三铢钱轻，轻钱易作奸诈，乃更请郡国铸五铢钱，周郭其质，令不可得摩取鋊。
大农上盐铁丞孔仅、咸阳言： 山海，天地之臧，宜属少府，陛下弗私，以属大农佐赋。
愿募民自给费，因官器作煮盐，官与牢盆。
浮食奇民欲擅斡山海之货，以致富羡，役利细民。
其沮事之议，不可胜听。
敢私铸铁器、煮盐者，釱左趾，没入其器物。
郡不出铁者，置小铁官，使属在所县。
使仅、咸阳乘传举行天下盐、铁，作官府，除故盐、铁家富者为吏。
吏益多贾人矣。商贾以币之变，多积货逐利。
于是公卿言： 郡国颇被灾害，贫民无产业者，募徙广饶之地。
陛下损膳省用，出禁钱以振元元，宽贷，而民不齐出南亩，商贾滋众。
贫者畜积无有，皆仰县官。
异时算轺车、贾人之缗钱皆有差小，请算如故。
诸贾人末作贳贷卖买，居邑贮积诸物，及商以取利者，虽无市籍，各以其物自占，率缗钱二千而算一。
诸作有租及铸，率缗钱四千算一。
非吏比者、三老、北边骑士，轺车一算；商贾人轺车二算。船五丈以上一算。
translation: 
So Shu Guo Xianyang and Kong Wei were appointed as great agricultural ministers to take charge of salt and iron affairs, while Sang Hongyang was favored.
Shuguo Xianyang was a big salt boiler in Qi State, and Kong Yuan was a big smelter in Nanyang. They both managed industries and accumulated a fortune of gold, so Zheng recommended them at that time.
Sang Hongyang was the son of a Luoyang merchant. Because he could do mental arithmetic, he was appointed as a servant at the age of thirteen.
Therefore, the interests stated by the three people can be distinguished very finely.
Since the laws were stricter, most of the officials were dismissed.
During the several wars launched, most of the people used money to exempt themselves from military service. As for the five great officials and thousands of men, there were even fewer people who were conquered from military service.
So the officials were made officials, and those who did not want to be officials had to contribute horses. Therefore, the officials were punished to go to the forest to cut down thorns and build Kunming Pool.
A year later, the generals and hussars launched a large-scale attack on the Xiongnu, and received a reward of 500,000 gold. More than 100,000 horses were killed, not including the cost of transporting grain and weapons.
At that time, the national treasury was depleted of financial resources, and it was difficult for soldiers to get merit.
Relevant officials said that three baht coins were light and easy to be counterfeited, so they asked the county and state to mint five baht coins instead, and made the edges of the coins into convex outlines so that people could not get copper scraps by rubbing them.
Da Sinong wrote to Yan Tiecheng Kong Yu and Shu Guo Xianyang, saying: Mountains and seas are the treasures of heaven and earth and should be managed by the Shaofu. Your Majesty has no selfish motives, so he asked Da Nong Cheng to help collect taxes.
It is hoped that the people will be recruited to boil salt at their own expense and use government equipment to boil salt, and the government will provide tools for boiling salt.
The princes who eat without working want to control the goods of the mountains and seas without authorization in order to become rich and gain profits from the common people.
No more talk can be heard of stopping these things.
Anyone who dares to forge iron tools to boil salt without permission will have his left toe clamped and his utensils confiscated.
If a county does not produce iron, a small iron official will be set up to take charge of the ironware in the county.
Let Kong Zhi and Shu Guo Xianyang Chiyi inform the world about the development of salt and iron industry, set up salt and iron government offices, and let the rich salt and iron families in the past become officials. There are more businessmen among the officials.
Merchants hoard more goods in pursuit of profits based on currency changes.
So the minister said: The disaster suffered by the county was quite serious, and the poor people who had no property were widely recruited and moved to vast and fertile places.
Your Majesty reduced meals to save money, used official money to relieve the common people, and relaxed loans. However, the common people did not go to farmland to cultivate, and the number of merchants increased.
Poor people have no savings and rely on the government.
In the past, there was an equal difference between the car tax and the merchant's income tax. Please continue to pay the same tax.
Businessmen who lend money at high interest rates, buy at low prices and sell at high prices, hoard money, and all those who make profits from business, even if they do not have a merchant's household registration, declare their own property and collect a tax of two thousand guan.
Various handicrafts, iron smelting and salt boiling all have taxes, and the tax is charged at a rate of four thousand guan.
Not only the officials, the three elders, and the knights on the northern border, but also those who own cars have to pay one tax; the cars bought by merchants have to pay two taxes; the boats that are more than five feet tall have to pay one tax.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
匿不自占，占不悉，戍边一岁，没入缗钱。
有能告者，以其半畀之。
贾人有市籍，及家属，皆无得名田，以便农。
敢犯令，没入田货。
是时，豪富皆争匿财，唯卜式数求入财以助县官。
天子乃超拜式为中郎，赐爵左庶长，田十顷，布告天下，以风百姓。
初，式不愿为官，上强拜之，稍迁至齐相。
语自在其《传》。
孔仅使天下铸作器，三年中至大司农，列于九卿。
而桑弘羊为大司农中丞，管诸会计事，稍稍置均输以通货物。
始令吏得入谷补官，郎至六百石。
自造白金、五铢钱后五岁，而赦吏民之坐盗铸金钱死者数十万人。
其不发觉相杀者，不可胜计。
赦自出者百余万人。
然不能半自出，天下大氐无虑皆铸金钱矣。
犯法者众，吏不能尽诛，于是遣博士褚大、徐偃等分行郡国，举并兼之徒守、相为利者。
而御史大夫张汤方贵用事，减宣、杜周等为中丞，义纵、尹齐、王温舒等用惨急苛刻为九卿，直指夏兰之属始出。
而大农颜异诛矣。
初，异为济南亭长，以廉直稍迁至九卿。
上与汤既造白鹿皮币，问异。
异曰： 今王侯朝贺以仓璧，直数千，而其皮荐反四十万，本末不相称。
天子不说。
汤又与异有隙，及人有告异以它议，事下汤治。
异与客语，客语初令下有不便者，异不应，微反脣。
汤奏当异九卿见令不便，不入言而腹非，论死。
自是后有腹非之法比，而公卿大夫多谄谀取容。
天子既下缗钱令而尊卜式，百姓终莫分财佐县官，于是告缗钱纵矣。
translation: 
If you conceal something and fail to declare it, if you declare something concealed, you will be fined for guarding the border for one year and your property will be confiscated.
If anyone can report it, give him half of the reward.
Businessmen with household registration and their family members were not allowed to occupy fields in their private names to facilitate farmers.
Anyone who dares to violate the law will have their land and property confiscated.
At this time, the rich were scrambling to hide their property. Only Bu Shi asked several times to donate property to help the government.
The emperor made an exception and promoted Bu Shi to the rank of Zhonglang, gave him the title of Zuo Shuchang, and rewarded him with ten hectares of land. He announced this to the world and persuaded the people.
At first, Shi was unwilling to become an official, but the emperor forcibly granted him the title, and then he was gradually promoted to the position of Prime Minister of Qi.
It is recorded in his biography.
Kong only ordered the world to forge ironware, and within three years he was promoted to the rank of Da Sinong, ranking among the nine ministers.
Sang Hongyang was appointed as the chief minister of Nong Zhongcheng, responsible for managing various properties and cashiers, etc., and gradually set up Junshu officials to circulate goods.
Officials began to be allowed to pay grain to supplement their promotion, and the amount of grain paid by Lang officials was increased to 600 shi.
Five years after the platinum five-baht coins were minted, hundreds of thousands of people, both officials and civilians, who had illegally minted coins and were condemned to death were pardoned.
And there are countless people who were killed without being found guilty.
More than one million people were pardoned and surrendered.
But less than half of the people surrendered, and everyone in the world was probably making money.
There were so many people who broke the law that the officials could not finish them off, so they sent Dr. Chu Da, Xu Yan and others to patrol the counties respectively to report those who had misappropriated other people's property and those who had conspired with the governors and princes for personal gain.
Zhang Tangzheng, the imperial censor, was favored to take power, and Jia Xuan, Du Zhou and others were appointed as Zhongcheng. Yizong, Yin Qi, Wang Wenshu and others were appointed as Jiuqing due to severe and harsh officials, and people like Xia Lan, the direct official, began to appear.
The great farmer Yan Yi was executed.
At first, Yan Yi was appointed as the pavilion chief of Jinan, and gradually rose to the rank of Jiuqing due to his integrity.
The emperor and Zhang Tang had already made white deer skin coins to ask Yan Yi.
Yan Yi said: Nowadays, princes use blue jade to pay tribute, which is worth several thousand, but leather coins cost 400,000, which is not proportional.
The emperor was not happy.
Zhang Tang had a rift with Yan Yi again. When someone accused Yan Yi of making different remarks, the matter was handed over to Zhang Tang for trial.
Yan Yi talked with the guest. The guest said that Shao Ling had just been issued and there was something inconvenient about it. Yan Yi did not respond and just turned his lips slightly to express contempt.
Zhang Tang submitted a memorial and sentenced Yan Yiguan to the rank of Jiuqing. If he saw that the edict was inconvenient and did not speak up but thought it was wrong, he would be punished by death.
From then on, there were laws and regulations regarding slander, and officials mostly used flattery to please others.
The emperor had issued a decree on taxation and respected the divination method. In the end, the people did not use their property to help the government, so rewards for reporting wealthy households to hide their property and evade taxes became popular.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
郡国铸钱，民多奸铸，钱多轻，而公卿请令京师铸官赤仄，一当五，赋官用非赤仄不得行。
白金稍贱，民弗宝用，县官以令禁之，无益，岁余终废不行。
是岁，汤死而民不思。
其后二岁，赤仄钱贱，民巧法用之，不便，又废。
于是悉禁郡国毋铸钱，专令上林三官铸。
钱既多，而令天下非三官钱不得行，诸郡国前所铸钱皆废销之，输入其铜三官。
而民之铸钱益少，计其费不能相当，唯直工大奸乃盗为之。
杨可告缗遍天下，中家以上大氐皆遇告。
杜周治之，狱少反者。
乃分遣御史、廷尉正监分曹往，即治郡国缗钱，得民财物以亿计；奴婢以千万数；田，大县数百顷，小县百余顷；宅亦如之。
于是商贾中家以上大氐破，民甘食好衣，不事畜臧之业，而县官以盐、铁、缗钱之故，用少饶矣。
益广关，置左右辅。
初，大农斡盐铁官布多，置水衡，欲以主盐铁。及杨可告缗，上林财物众，乃令水衡主上林。
上林既充满，益广。
是时粤欲与汉用船战逐，乃大修昆明池，列馆环之。
治楼船，高十余丈，旗织加其上，甚壮。
于是天子感之，乃作柏梁台，高数十丈。
宫室之修，繇此日丽。
乃分缗钱诸官，而水衡、少府、太仆、大农各置农官，往往即郡县比没入田田之。
其没入奴婢，分诸苑养狗、马、禽兽，及与诸官。
官益杂置多，徒奴婢众，而下河漕度四百万石，及官自籴乃足。
所忠言： 世家子弟富人或斗鸡走狗马，弋猎博戏，乱齐民。
translation: 
When the county minted coins, most of the people cast them by craftsmanship, and most of the coins were lighter. The minister asked the mint official of the capital to cast red oblique coins, one for five, but it was not possible to pay taxes and supply the government with coins other than red oblique coins.
The price of platinum gradually dropped, and people did not use it as a treasure. The government ordered a ban, which was of no benefit. It was finally abolished after more than a year and became no longer popular.
This year, Zhang Tang died, but the people did not mourn.
In the next two years, the price of red money fell again, and people used it in clever ways. However, it was inconvenient and was abolished.
So they all banned the prefectures and states from casting money, and specifically ordered the three officials of Shanglin to cast money.
Since there were a lot of coins, he ordered that money that was not made by the three officials should not be popular in the world. The coins minted by each county and state were abolished and destroyed, and the copper was given to the three officials.
In this way, the number of coins minted by the common people decreased even more. They calculated that the expenses and profits could not be equal. Only clever craftsmen and wealthy people minted money secretly.
Yang Ke's activities of concealing property and evading taxes were reported all over the country, and most of the people from middle-income families and above were prosecuted.
Du Zhou came to review the case, and few people could reverse the case.
So they sent censors, court lieutenants, and eunuchs to various countries with different missions to deal with cases of hidden property in counties and counties. They obtained hundreds of millions of people's property, tens of millions of slaves, hundreds of hectares of land in large counties, and more than a hundred hectares in small counties, and the same number of real estate.
As a result, most of the middle-class and above-average merchants went bankrupt, and the people settled on good food and clothing and no longer engaged in hoarding. The government gradually became richer because of the money-making business of salt and iron.
The Guanzhong area was expanded and left and right auxiliaries were set up.
At first, there were a lot of salt and iron officials under the management of Da Nong, so he appointed Captain Shuiheng to be in charge of salt and iron affairs. After Yang Ke encouraged the report of hidden property, Shanglin's property increased, and he appointed Captain Shuiheng to be in charge of Shanglin.
Now that Shanglin has enough property, he needs to expand it.
At this time, the Guangdong Kingdom planned to use ships to start a war with the Han Dynasty, so it built Kunming Pool on a large scale and built temples around the pool.
The building boat is built, more than ten feet high, and the flag is placed on it. It is very spectacular.
So the emperor was infected by this style and built the Bailiang Fortress, which was dozens of feet high.
The construction of palaces has become more and more magnificent since then.
So min money was distributed to various government offices, and Shuiheng, Shaofu, Taipu, and Da Nong each set up agricultural officials, who often cultivated the confiscated land in various counties and counties on the spot.
The confiscated slaves and maidservants were distributed to various gardens to feed dogs, horses, and animals, and to various government offices.
The official positions were more complicated and more numerous, and there were many criminals and slaves. Therefore, the grain transported to the capital from the Dong River was about four million shi, and the government had to buy part of the grain itself to be able to use it.
Suozhong said: The children of aristocratic families and the rich engage in cockfighting, dog racing, and horse racing, as well as hunting and gambling games, disrupting the lives of ordinary people.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
乃征诸犯令，相引数千人，名曰 株送徒 。
入财者得补郎，郎选衰矣。
是时山东被河灾，乃岁不登数年，人或相食，方二三千里。
天子怜之，令饥民得流就食江、淮间，欲留，留处。
使者冠盖相属于道护之，下巴、蜀粟以赈焉。
明年，天子始出巡郡国。
东度河，河东守不意行至，不辩，自杀。
行西逾陇，卒，从官不得食，陇西守自杀。
于是上北出萧关，从数万骑行猎新秦中，以勒边兵而归。
新秦中或千里无亭徼，于是诛北地太守以下，而令民得畜边县，官假马母，三岁而归，及息什一，以除告缗，用充入新秦中。
既得宝鼎，立后土、泰一祠，公卿白议封禅事，而郡国皆豫治道，修缮故宫，及当驰道县，县治宫储，设共具，而望幸。
明年，南粤反，西羌侵边。
天子为山东不澹，赦天下囚，因南方楼船士二十余万人击粤，发三河以西骑击羌，又数万人度河筑令居。
初置张掖、酒泉郡、而上郡朔方、西河、河西开田官，斥塞卒六十万人戊田之。
中国缮道馈粮，远者三千，近者千余里，皆仰给大农。
边兵不足，乃发武库、工官兵器以澹之。
车骑马乏，县官钱少，买马难得，乃著令，令封君以下至三百石吏以上差出牝马天下亭，亭有畜字马，岁课息。
齐相卜式上书，愿父子死南粤。
天子下诏褒扬，赐爵关内侯，黄金四十斤，田十顷。
布告天下，天下莫应。
列侯以百数，皆莫求从军。
至饮酎，少府省金，而列侯坐酎金失侯者百余人。
translation: 
So the criminals were punished, and thousands of people were implicated, called "Zhu Shou Tu".
Those who donated money and property could be replaced as Lang Guan, and the selection of Lang Guan declined from then on.
At that time, Shandong was hit by floods from the Yellow River, coupled with successive years of poor harvests, and cannibalism occurred, covering an area of ​​2,000 to 3,000 miles.
The emperor felt pity and ordered the hungry people to flee to the Jianghuai River to make a living, and those who planned to stay there could settle there.
Messengers came and went in an endless stream to escort the hungry people on the road, and brought food from Bashu to provide relief to the victims.
In the second year, the emperor began to inspect the prefectures.
After crossing the Yellow River, the governor of Hedong did not expect that the emperor's chariot would arrive here, so he committed suicide because he did not pay attention to the offerings.
The journey westward through Longshan was so hasty that the emperor's officials could not even eat, and the governor of Longxi committed suicide.
So the emperor left Xiaoguan in the north and followed tens of thousands of horses to hunt in Xinqin. He used this to manage the border guards and then returned to the capital.
Some places in Xin Qinzhong had no border posts for thousands of miles, so they killed officials below the governor of the north. Shao ordered the people to go to the border counties to graze livestock. The government loaned the mares to the mares, which would be returned after three years, with one-tenth of the interest. The law on accusing hidden money was abolished, and the interest was used to supplement Xin Qinzhong.
After obtaining the treasure tripod, they built the Houtu Temple and the Taiyi Temple. The ministers discussed matters related to the enshrinement of Zen, while the counties and counties built roads in advance and tidied up the old palaces. Those counties near Chidao prepared items for the emperor to enjoy and arranged utensils for wine and food, waiting for the emperor's arrival.
A year later, Southern Guangdong rebelled and Western Qiang invaded the border.
Seeing that Shandong was in short supply, the emperor pardoned the prisoners from all over the world, relied on more than 200,000 warships and soldiers from the south to attack the Cantonese army, mobilized the cavalry west of the Three Rivers to attack the Qiang people, and sent tens of thousands of people across the Yellow River to build Lingju City.
Zhangye and Jiuquan counties were set up, field officials were set up in Shangjun, Shuofang, Xihe, and Hexi, and 600,000 soldiers were added to guard the border while guarding and farming.
In the interior of the Central Plains, roads were built to transport grain. The roads were as far as three thousand miles away and as close as more than a thousand miles, and they all relied on Da Si Nong.
If the weapons for border defense are insufficient, weapons from the arsenal and engineering officers are allocated to meet the needs of the border area.
There were not enough military chariots and horses, and the government had little money and it was difficult to buy horses, so an order was made to order officials from the prince to the annual salary of three hundred dan or more to pay different numbers of mares according to different levels to various pavilions in the world. Those who had mares in the pavilions were required to mate and breed every year.
The state of Qi wrote a letter to the prime minister, expressing that father and son were willing to die for southern Guangdong.
The emperor then issued an edict to praise him and gave him the title of Marquis of Guannei, as well as forty kilograms of gold and ten hectares of land.
Announcement to the world, but no one in the world responded.
There were hundreds of princes, but none of them asked to join the army.
When it was time to drink the wine, the Shaofu inspected the gold. There were more than a hundred princes who were deprived of their title due to insufficient gold.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
乃拜卜式为御史大夫。
式既在位，见郡国多不便县官作盐铁，器苦恶，贾贵，或强令民买之。
而船有算，商者少，物贵，乃因孔仅言船算事。
上不说。
汉连出兵三岁，诛羌，灭两粤，番禺以西至蜀南者置初郡十七，且以其故俗治，无赋税。
南阳、汉中以往，各以地比给初郡吏卒奉食币物，传车马被具。
而初郡又时时小反，杀吏，汉发南方吏卒往诛之，间岁万余人，费皆仰大农。
大农以均输调盐铁助赋，故能澹之。
然兵所过县，县以为訾给毋乏而已，不敢言轻赋法矣。
其明年，元封元年，卜式贬为太子太傅。
而桑弘羊为治粟都尉，领大农，尽代仅斡天下盐铁。
弘羊以诸官各自市相争，物以故腾跃，而天下赋输或不偿其僦费，乃请置大农部丞数十人，分部主郡国，各往往置均输、盐、铁官，令远方各以其物如异时商贾所转贩者为赋，而相灌输。
置平准于京师，都受天下委输。
召工官治车诸器，皆仰给大农。
大农诸官尽笼天下之货物，贵则卖之，贱则买之。
如此，富商大贾亡所牟大利则反本，而万物不得腾跃。
故抑天下之物，名曰 平准 。
天子以为然而许之。
于是天子北至朔方，东封泰山，巡海上，旁北边以归。
所过赏赐，用帛百余万匹，钱、金以巨万计，皆取足大农。
弘羊又请令民得入粟补吏，及罪以赎。
令民入粟甘泉各有差，以复终身，不复告缗。
它郡各输急处。而诸农各致粟，山东漕益岁六百万石。
一岁之中，太仓、甘泉仓满。
边余谷，诸均输帛五百万匹。
民不益赋而天下用饶。
translation: 
So he was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
After Shi became the censor, he saw that most of the counties reported that the government was inconvenient to make salt and iron. The quality of the iron was poor and the price was high, and some forced the people to buy it.
And ships have tax collection. There are few merchants who use ships to transport goods, and the goods are expensive, so the holes only reflect the tax collection of ships.
The emperor was therefore dissatisfied with Bu Shi.
The Han Dynasty fought for three consecutive years, killing the Qiang army, and annihilating northern and southern Guangdong. For the first time, seventeen counties were set up in the area from the west of Panyu to southern Shu. They were governed according to their old customs for the time being, and there were no taxes.
Nanyang and Hanzhong each provided salaries, food, money, and tools such as carriages, horses, quilts, and clothing for the officials in the newly established counties according to regional proportions.
The newly established counties often had small-scale rebellions and killed officials. The Han Dynasty sent southern officers and soldiers to suppress them. Every other year, more than 10,000 people were needed, and the expenses were all paid by Da Si Nong.
Da SiNong used the equalization method to allocate salt and iron from various places to subsidize taxes, so he could cope with it.
However, the counties the army passed through believed that as long as the supply was sufficient, they did not dare to say that they would reduce tax laws.
The next year, the first year of Yuanfeng, Bu Shi was demoted to the title of Crown Prince and Tutor.
And Sang Hongyang was appointed as the captain of the grain management and the agricultural order, completely replacing Kong in managing the world's salt and iron.
Sang Hongyang thought that the officials were competing in their own business, and prices were soaring because of this, and some of the taxes paid by the world were not enough to repay the cost of transshipment, so he asked for the establishment of dozens of agricultural ministers to take charge of agricultural affairs in each county. The major agricultural ministers often set up junshu officials and salt and iron officials, so that remote areas could use the prices of goods sold by them and previous merchants as taxes, and transfer goods to each other.
Set up a leveling agency in the capital to receive goods from all over the world.
The cost of hiring craftsmen to make vehicles and other utensils was paid by the Da Nong Order.
All the institutions affiliated to the big farmers have a monopoly on the world's goods, selling them when prices are high and buying them when they are low.
In this way, wealthy businessmen will not be able to make huge profits and will return to their roots as farmers, and all commodities will not experience sharp fluctuations.
Therefore, suppressing prices in the world is called "levelling".
The emperor thought it was reasonable and agreed to his request.
So the emperor went north to Shuofang, went east to Fengchan Taishan, patrolled the sea, and after reaching the northern border, returned to the capital.
Wherever he went, the rewards amounted to more than a million pieces of silk and hundreds of millions of dollars, all of which came from large farmers.
Sang Hongyang also requested that the people could donate grain to serve as officials, and that they could pay grain to atone for crimes.
The people were ordered to pay grain to Ganquan Palace according to a certain level, so that they could be exempted from lifelong labor and no longer report the hidden money.
Other counties and counties each paid to the urgent need, and every farmer had to pay. The amount of grain transported to Beijing from Shandong increased to six million shi every year.
During the year, the warehouses in Taicang and Ganquan Palace were full.
The remaining grain on the border was converted into five million bolts of silk according to the equalization method.
The people do not increase taxes, and the world's expenses are sufficient.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
于是弘羊赐爵左庶长，黄金者再百焉。
是岁小旱，上令百官求雨。
卜式言曰： 县官当食租衣税而已，今弘羊令吏坐市列，贩物求利。
亨弘羊，天乃雨。
久之，武帝疾病，拜弘羊为御史大夫。
昭帝即位六年，诏郡国举贤良文学之士，问以民所疾苦，教化之要。
皆对愿罢盐、铁、酒榷均输官，毋与天下争利，视以俭节，然后教化可兴。
弘羊难，以为此国家大业，所以制四夷，安边足用之本，不可废也。
乃与丞相千秋共奏罢酒酤。
弘羊自以为国兴大利，伐其功，欲为子弟得官，怨望大将军霍光，遂与上官桀等谋反，诛灭。
宣、元、成、哀、平五世，无所变改。
元帝时尝罢盐、铁官，三年而复之。
贡禹言： 铸钱采铜，一岁十万人不耕，民坐盗铸陷刑者多。
富人臧钱满室，犹无厌足。
民心动摇，弃本逐末，耕者不能半，奸邪不可禁，原起于钱。
疾其末者绝其本，宜罢采珠、玉、金、银铸钱之官，毋复以为币，除其贩卖租铢之律，租税、禄、赐皆以布、帛及谷，使百姓壹意农桑。
议者以为交易待钱，布、帛不可尺寸分裂。
禹议亦寝。
自孝武元狩五年三官初铸五铢钱，至平帝元始中，成钱二百八十亿万余云。
王莽居摄，变汉制，以周钱有子母相权，于是更造大钱，径寸二分，重十二铢，文曰 大钱五十 。
又造契刀、错刀。
契刀，其环如大钱，身形如刀，长二寸，文曰 契刀五百 。
错刀，以黄金错其文，曰 一刀直五千 。
与五铢钱凡四品，并行。
莽即真，以为书 刘 字有 金 、 刀 ，乃罢错刀、契刀及五铢钱，而更作金、银、龟、贝、钱、布之品，名曰 宝货 。
translation: 
So Sang Hongyang was given the title of Zuo Shuchang and two hundred catties of gold.
There was a slight drought that year, and the emperor ordered all officials to pray for rain.
The fortune teller said: The government should use taxes and taxes for food and clothing. Now Sang Hongyang makes officials sit in the shops and buy and sell goods in order to make profits.
Only when the Sanghong sheep is boiled will it rain.
After some time, Emperor Wu fell ill and worshiped Sang Hongyang as the imperial censor.
Six years after Emperor Zhao's reign, he ordered the prefectures and counties to recommend virtuous and literary people and ask them about the sufferings of the people and the key to political and religious culture.
They all responded by hoping to remove Yan Tie, Jiu Guo, and all officials, compete for interests with the world, use frugality to show the world, and then enlightenment can arise.
Sang Hongyang criticized them, arguing that these were the great undertakings of the country, which were used to subdue the barbarians, stabilize the borders, and satisfy consumption, and could not be abolished.
So he and Prime Minister Qianqiu petitioned to abolish the wine tax.
Sang Hongyang thought he had brought great benefits to the country and was arrogant about taking credit. He wanted to seek official positions for his children. He hated the general Huo Guang, so he rebelled against Shangguan Jie and others and was executed.
There were no changes in the five generations of Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Emperor Hu.
The Yantie Palace was deposed during the reign of Emperor Yuan, but was restored three years later.
Gong Yu said: To make money, copper must be mined. One hundred thousand people do not work in farming every year. Many people break the law and secretly make money, and many people are punished.
The rich have a house full of money, but they still don't know how to be satisfied.
The people's hearts are shaken, and they abandon the fundamentals of agriculture and pursue commercial interests. There are not half of the people cultivating, and evil cannot be banned because of money.
Those who are eager to engage in commerce will cut off agriculture. Officials who mine pearls, jade, gold and silver and make money should be dismissed. Coins should no longer be minted. The laws on selling and paying taxes in kind should be removed. Taxes, salaries, and rewards should be paid in cloth and grain, so that the people can devote themselves wholeheartedly to farming.
The people discussing it believed that transactions required money and that cloth could not be divided by size.
Gong Yu's suggestion was not adopted.
From the fifth year of Emperor Xiaowu's Yuanshou, the three officials began to mint five baht coins. By the first year of Emperor Yuan's reign, there were more than 28 billion yuan in money.
When Wang Mang was regent, he changed the system of the Han Dynasty. Because the money of the Zhou Dynasty was balanced by the son and the mother, he changed the big coin to one and a half inches in diameter and weighed twelve baht. The words on the front were "big coin fifty".
They also made deed-knife coins and wrong-knife coins.
The edge of the Qidao is like a big coin, shaped like a knife, two inches long, and the words on the front are "Qidao Five Hundred".
The wrong knife is inlaid with gold and its pattern is engraved with the words "One knife is worth five thousand".
There are four types of coins and five baht coins, which are circulated together.
Wang Mang officially ascended the throne as emperor. He believed that the character Liu was written with gold and a knife, so he abolished wrong knives, contract knives and five-baht coins, and replaced them with gold, silver, turtle, shell, money and cloth coins, which are called "treasure goods".


Chunk 11: 
original: 
小钱径六分，重一铢，文曰 小钱直一 。
次七分，三铢，曰 幺钱一十 。
次八分，五铢，曰 幼钱二十 。
次九分，七铢曰 中钱三十 。
次一寸，九铢，曰 壮钱四十 。
因前 大钱五十 ，是为钱货六品，直各如其文。
黄金重一斤，直钱万。
朱提银重八两为一流，直一千五百八十。
它银一流直千。
是为银货二品。
元龟冉长尺二寸，直二千一百六十，为大贝十朋。
公龟九寸，直五百，为壮贝十朋。
侯龟七寸以上，直三百，为幺贝十朋。
子龟五寸以上，直百，为小贝十朋。
是为龟宝四品。
大贝四寸八分以上，二枚为一朋，直二百一十六。
壮贝三寸六分以上，二枚为一朋，直五十。
幺贝二寸四分以上，二枚为一朋，直三十。
小贝寸二分以上，二枚为一朋，直十。
不盈寸二分，漏度不得为朋，率枚直钱三。
是为贝货五品。
大布、次布、弟布、壮布、中布、差布、厚布、幼布、幺布、小布。
小布长寸五分，重十五铢，文曰 小布一百 。
自小布以上，各相长一分，相重一铢，文各为其布名，直各加一百。
上至大布，长二寸四分，重一两，而直千钱矣。
是为布货十品。
凡宝货三物，六名，二十八品。
铸作钱布皆用铜，淆以连锡，文质周郭放汉五铢钱云。
其金、银与它物杂，色不纯好，龟不盈五寸，贝不盈六分，皆不得为宝货。
元龟为蔡，非四民所得居，有者，入大卜受直。
百姓愦乱，其货不行。
民私以五铢钱市买。
莽患之，下诏： 敢非井田、挟五铢钱者为惑众，投诸四裔以御魑魅。
于是农、商失业，食、货俱废，民涕泣于市道。
translation: 
The small coin is six cents in diameter and weighs one baht. The text on the front reads "small coin is worth one".
Another kind of small coin is seven cents in diameter and weighs three baht. The text on the front is "One Coin Ten".
Another type is eight cents in diameter and weighs five baht, which is called "Young Qian Twenty".
Another type is nine cents in diameter and weighs seven baht, which is called Zhongqian Thirty.
There is also a kind with a diameter of one inch and a weight of nine baht, called "Zhuang Qian Forty".
Based on the previous "Big Money Fifty", six types of coins are created, each with the same value as the words on it.
Gold weighs one pound and is worth ten thousand dollars.
Zhu Tiyin weighs eight liang and is first-class, worth one thousand five hundred and eighty yuan.
The other silver is worth one thousand first-rate.
These are two types of silver coins.
The two sides of the big turtle coin are one foot and two inches apart. They are worth 2,160 yuan, which is equivalent to ten pennies of big shells.
The male turtle is nine inches long and is worth five hundred coins, which is equivalent to ten pennies of shellfish.
A Hougui over seven inches is worth three hundred coins, which is equivalent to ten pennies.
A turtle over five inches is worth one hundred yuan, which is equivalent to ten pennies of small shells.
These are the four types of turtle treasures.
The large shells are more than four inches and eight cents long. Two shells make a penny and are worth 216 coins.
Strong shells are more than three inches and six cents long. Two shells make a penny, worth fifty cents.
Unit shells are more than two inches and four cents long. Two shells make a penny and are worth thirty cash.
Xiaobei is more than two cents an inch, and two pieces are worth ten coins.
If it is less than an inch or two, it does not conform to the system and cannot be friends. One piece is worth about three cents.
It is the fifth type of shellfish.
Big cloth, second cloth, younger cloth, strong cloth, medium cloth, poor cloth, thick cloth, small cloth, small cloth, small cloth.
The small cloth is one inch and a half long and weighs fifteen baht. The words on the front are "小布百".
From the small cloth upwards, add one point to each length and one baht to each weight. The writing on the front is the name of the cloth, and add one hundred to each value.
Going up to the big cloth, it is two inches and four cents long, weighs one tael, and is worth a thousand coins.
The creation is ten-grade cloth goods.
There are three substances, six names, and twenty-eight categories in the actual product.
The coins are made of copper, mixed with lead and tin, and their shape and outline are all imitated by the five-baht coin.
Among them, gold and silver are mixed with other substances, the color is not pure, the turtle is less than five inches, and the shell is less than six cents, they cannot be regarded as treasures.
The big tortoise is Cai, which cannot be kept by ordinary people. Those who have big tortoises should be given to the big divination to receive rewards.
The people are in trouble, and none of these currencies will work.
People privately use five baht to buy goods in the market.
Wang Mang was worried about this, so he went down to Shao and said: Those who dare to criticize Jingtian for carrying five baht are deceiving the public and sending them to remote areas in all directions to defend against evil spirits.
As a result, farmers and businessmen lost their jobs, food and goods were gone, and people cried on the market roads.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
坐卖买田、宅、奴婢、铸钱抵罪者，自公卿大夫至庶人，不可称数。
莽知民愁，乃但行小钱直一，与大钱五十，二品并行，龟、贝、布属且寝。
莽性躁扰，不能无为，每有所兴造，必欲依古得经文。
国师公刘歆言周有泉府之官，收不雠，与欲得，即《易》所谓 理财正辞，禁民为非 者也。
莽乃下诏曰： 夫《周礼》有赊、贷，《乐语》有五均，传记各有斡焉。
今开赊贷，张五均，设诸斡者，所以齐众庶，抑并兼也。
遂于长安及五都立五均官，更名长安东、西市令及洛阳、邯郸、临菑、宛、成都市长皆为五均同市师、东市称京，西市称畿，洛阳称中，余四都各用东、西、南、北为称，皆置交易丞五人，钱府丞一人，工商能采金、银、铜、连锡，登龟、取贝者，皆自占司市钱府，顺时气而取之。
又以《周官》税民：凡田不耕为不殖，出三夫之税；城郭中宅不树艺者为不毛，出三夫之布；民浮游无事，出夫布一匹。
其不能出布者，冗作，县官衣食之。
诸取众物、鸟、兽、鱼、鳖、百虫于山林、水泽及畜牧者，嫔妇桑蚕、织纴、纺绩、补缝，工匠、医、巫、卜、祝及它方技、商贩、贾人坐肆、列里区、谒舍，皆各自占所为于其所之县官，除其本，计其利，十一分之，而以其一为贡。敢不自占、自占不以实者，尽没入所采取，而作县官一岁。
诸司市常以四时中月实定所掌，为物上、中、下之贾，各自用为其市平，毋拘它所。
众民卖买五谷、布帛、丝绵之物，周于民用而不雠者，均官有以考检厥实，用其本贾取之，毋令折钱。
万物卬贵，过平一钱，则以平贾卖与民。
其贾氐贱，减平者，听民自相与市，以防贵庾者。
民欲祭祀、丧纪而无用者，钱府以所入工、商之贡但赊之，祭祀无过旬日，丧纪毋过三月。
民或乏绝，欲贷以治产业者，均授之，除其费，计所得受息。毋过岁什一。
translation: 
There are countless people who have been punished for crimes such as buying and selling land, houses, slaves, and coining money, from officials to common people.
Wang Mang knew that the people were resentful, so he only used small coins worth one penny and large coins worth fifty penny. The two types were used together, and turtles, shells, cloth and other types were temporarily stopped.
Wang Mang had an impatient and restless temper, and could not remain silent. Whenever he wanted to create something, he would imitate the texts from the ancient scriptures.
Liu Xin, the Grand Master of the State, said that in the Zhou Dynasty, there were Quan officials who purchased unsalable goods on the market and gave people what they wanted, which is what the "Book of Changes" said. Use correct words to manage property and prohibit people from doing evil.
Wang Mang said to Xia Shao: "Zhou Li" has credit, "Le Yu" has Wujun, and each has its own office in the biography.
Now credit is opened, five equalizations are implemented, and various good offices are established, which are used to unify the people and inhibit mergers.
So Wujun officials were established in Chang'an and the five capitals, and the east and west municipal orders of Chang'an and the mayors of Luoyang, Handan, Linshi, Wan, and Chengdu were each designated as Wujun division municipal divisions. The east city is called Jing, the west city is called Ji, Luoyang is called Zhong, and the other four capitals are each called Shu, west, Nan, and Bei. They all have five trading chiefs and one Qianfu chief. Craftsmen and merchants who can mine gold, silver, copper, lead, tin and contribute turtle shells must report to the City Qianfu themselves and mine according to a certain time.
According to the tax law for collecting common people according to the "Zhou Guan": If the fields are not cultivated, it means that there is no production, and you must pay a tax of three laborers; if you do not plant trees, fruits, and vegetables around the residences in the city, you must pay a tax of three laborers of cloth; if the people wander around and are not engaged in production, they must pay a labor fee of one piece.
Among them, those who were unable to pay their bills worked as casual laborers and were provided with food and clothing by the government.
All the people who hunt various kinds of materials, including black animals, fish, turtles, and hundreds of insects in the mountains, forests and swamps for raising livestock, the women who feed the silkworms, weave silk threads and weave and mend, the craftsmen, doctors, wizards, fortune-tellers, magicians, traders, and merchants who sit in the markets and guesthouses, all in their respective directions. The government where he is located declares what he has done, removes his capital, calculates his profits, collects one-tenth of the tax, and uses one of the taxes as tribute. If anyone dares not to declare it himself, or if his self-report is unrealistic, all his harvest will be confiscated, and he will work for the government for another year.
Each city usually determines what it is in charge of according to the actual situation in January between the four seasons, and sets the prices for goods in the upper, middle and lower grades. Each of them can adapt to the stability of their own market and do not need to stick to other places.
Everyone buys and sells grains, cloth, silk and other items. As long as the items are needed by the people and are unsaleable, they will be purchased at their original price after being inspected and verified by the officials. Do not make them lose money.
All goods will be sold to the people at a flat price if the price of all goods increases by one penny more than the equilibrium price.
If the price drops below parity, people are allowed to participate in buying and selling on their own to prevent hoarding.
If the people want to offer sacrifices or hold funerals but do not have the money, the Qian government will use the tribute paid by craftsmen and merchants to give them credit without interest. The sacrifices should not last more than ten days, and the funerals should not last more than three months.
If some people are poor and want to borrow money to manage their property, they should lend as much as they need. After deducting their expenses, the interest charged on their income should not exceed one-tenth of a year.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
羲和鲁匡言： 名山、大泽，盐、铁、钱、布、帛，五均赊贷，斡在县官，唯酒酤独未斡。
酒者，天之美禄，帝王所以颐养天下，享祀祈福，扶衰养疾。
百礼之会，非酒不行。
故《诗》曰 无酒酤我 ，而《论语》曰 酤酒不食 ，二者非相反也。
夫《诗》据承平之世，酒酤在官，和旨便人，可以相御也。
《论语》孔子当周衰乱，酒酤在民，薄恶不诚，是以疑而弗食。
今绝天下之酒，则无以行礼相养；放而亡限，则费财伤民。
请法古，令官作酒，以二千五百石为一均，率开一卢以卖，雠五十酿为准。
一酿用粗米二斛，曲一斛，得成酒六斛六斗。
各以其市月朔米曲三斛，并计其贾而参分之，以其一为酒一斛之平。
除米曲本贾，计其利而什分之，以其七入官，其三及糟、灰炭给工器、薪樵之费。
羲和置命士督五均、六斡，郡有数人，皆用富贾。
落阳薛子仲、张长叔、临菑姓伟等，乘传求利，交错天下，因与郡县通奸，多张空簿，府臧不实，百姓俞病。
莽知民苦之，复下诏曰： 夫盐，食肴之将；酒，百药之长，嘉会之好；铁，田农之本；名山、大泽，饶衍之臧；五均、赊贷，百姓所取平，卬以给澹；铁布、铜冶，通行有无，备民用也。
此六者，非编户齐民所能家作，必卬于市，虽贵数倍，不得不买。
豪民富贾，即要贫弱，先圣知其然也，故斡之。
每一斡为设科条防禁，犯者罪至死。
奸吏猾民并侵，众庶各不安生。
后五岁，天凤元年，复申下金、银、龟、贝之货，颇增减其贾直。
translation: 
Lu Kuang, an official of Xihe, said: The famous mountains and lakes, salt and iron, money, cloth, Wujun, and credit are all under the control of the government. Only the sale of wine has no one in charge.
Wine is a beautiful gift from God. Emperors use it to maintain the world, offer sacrifices to ghosts and gods to pray for blessings, and support the weak and sick.
The ceremony cannot be held without wine.
Therefore, the "Poetry" says "I will buy wine if there is no wine", while the "Analects" says "I will not drink the wine bought". These two statements are not opposite.
What the "Poetry" says is that in the era of peace, the wine tax was in the government, which was harmonious and convenient, and could be used by each other.
What the Analects of Confucius says is that Confucius was in chaos during the Zhou Dynasty, and the wine tax was on the people. He was frivolous, evil and dishonest, so he was suspicious and refused to drink.
Now that the wine is cut off from the world, there will be nothing to use for rituals and maintenance; if it is released without limit, it will waste money and harm the people.
Please follow the example of ancient times and order the government to make wine, with a price of 2,500 shi per unit. First, open a shop to sell wine, and sell 50 wines as a basis.
One brew uses brown rice and two dendrobium. For one dendrobium, you can get six dendrobiums and six buckets of ready-made wine.
Each uses the three bushels of rice koji they purchased each month, and calculated their prices, divided them into three parts, and used one of them as the par price of one bushel of wine.
After excluding the cost price of rice koji, calculate the profit and divide it into ten parts, pay seven parts to the government, and pay the remaining three parts and the wine slurry, ash and charcoal to supply the craftsmen with equipment and firewood.
Xihe appointed magistrates to supervise Wujun and Liuou. There were several magistrates in each county, and they were all wealthy businessmen.
People like Xue Zizhong, Zhang Changshu, and Linmiao surnamed Wei from Luoyang traveled around the country in pursuit of profits in post cars. By the way, he colluded with the counties and created many false accounts. The government collection was not sufficient, and the people were even more worried.
Knowing that the people were suffering from these things, Wang Mang issued a new edict: Salt is the leader of meals; wine is the leader of hundreds of medicines and a good thing for banquets; iron is the capital of farming; famous mountains and lakes are the places where rich materials are hidden; Wujun credit is the basis for people to obtain materials and supplies at a fair price; coins are minted to communicate what is available and prepare for people's consumption.
Not every household with a registered permanent residence can do these six things by themselves. They must rely on buying and selling. Even if they are several times more expensive, they still have to buy them.
Rich people and businessmen used this to threaten the poor and weak. The sages of previous generations knew about this situation, so they had to take charge of them.
Each supervisor established regulations to prevent and prohibit them, and those who violated them were punished to death.
Evil officials and cunning people invaded the common people together, and the majority of the people could not live in peace.
Five years later, in the first year of Tianfeng, gold, silver, turtle shells and other currencies were re-promulgated, and their values ​​were greatly increased or decreased.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
而罢大、小钱，改作货布，长二寸五分，广一寸，首长八分有奇，广八分，其圜好径二分半，足枝长八分，间广二分，其文右曰 货 ，左曰 布 ，重二十五铢，直货泉二十五。
货泉径一寸，重五铢，文右曰 货 ，左曰 泉 ，枚直一，与货布二品并行。
又以大钱行久，罢之，恐民挟不止，乃令民且独行大钱，与新货泉俱枚直一，并行尽六年，毋得复挟大钱矣。
每壹易钱，民用破业，而大陷刑。
莽以私铸钱死，及非沮宝货投四裔，犯法者多，不可胜行，乃更轻其法；私铸作泉布者，与妻子没入为官奴婢；吏及比伍，知而不举告，与同罪；非沮宝货，民罚作一岁，吏免官。
犯者俞众，及五人相坐皆没入，郡国槛车铁锁，传送长安钟官，愁苦死者什六七。
作货布后六年，匈奴侵寇甚，莽大募天下囚徒、人奴，名曰猪突豨勇，壹切税吏民，訾三十而取一。
又令公卿以下至郡县黄绶吏，皆保养军马，吏尽复以与民。
民摇手触禁，不得耕桑，徭役烦剧，而枯、旱、蝗虫相因。
又用制作未定，上自公侯，下至小吏，皆不得奉禄，而私赋敛，货赂上流，狱讼不决。
吏用苛暴立威，旁缘莽禁，侵刻小民。
富者不得自保，贫者无以自存，起为盗贼，依阻山泽，吏不能禽而覆蔽之，浸淫日广，于是青、徐、荆楚之地往往万数。
战斗死亡，缘边四夷所系虏，陷罪，饥疫，人相食，及莽未诛，而天下户口减半矣。
自发猪突豨勇后四年，而汉兵诛莽。
后二年，世祖受命，荡涤烦苛，复五铢钱，与天下更始。
translation: 
The big and small coins were abolished and replaced with goods cloth, two inches and five cents long and one inch wide. The head of the goods cloth is more than eight cents long and eight cents wide. Its round hole is two and a half minutes in diameter. Its foot branch is eight cents long and two cents wide in the middle. The words on the right side of the front are "goods" and the words on the left are "cloth". It weighs twenty-five baht, which is equivalent to twenty-five pieces of money.
The currency spring is one inch in diameter and weighs five baht. The text on the right side of the front is "huo" and the text on the left is "quan". The value of one coin is one. The two types of goods and cloth are popular at the same time.
And because the big money had been circulating for a long time, it was abolished. I was afraid that the people would not stop using it, so I ordered the people to use the big money alone for the time being, and the value of each coin was one with the new currency. It lasted for a total of six years, and they were not allowed to use the big money again.
Every time the currency was changed, people went bankrupt and committed a large number of crimes.
Wang Mang executed those who made money privately, and moved those who criticized and slandered the treasures to remote areas. There were too many people who broke the law, and it could not be fully implemented, so he changed the criminal law to reduce the punishment: Those who made spring cloth privately were confiscated and sent to the palace as slaves together with their wives and children;
There were even more people who broke the law. When five people were seated in a row without entering the government office, the county prison car was locked and escorted to Zhongguan in Chang'an. Sixty-seven out of ten people died in pain.
Six years after making the cloth, the Huns invaded fiercely. Wang Mang recruited prisoners and slaves from all over the world on a large scale, called Zhu Tu Xi Yong. All taxes came from the palace residents, and he collected one-thirtieth of the property tax.
He also ordered the ministers to the Huangshou officials in counties and counties to maintain the military horses. The officials transferred all the military horses to the people and asked them to maintain them.
The people often violated the ban and were unable to farm and pick mulberry. The corvee was complicated and heavy, and there were droughts and locusts causing trouble.
And because the system has not been established, no one from the princes to the petty officials can get their salaries, but they collect taxes privately, bribe their superiors, and do not deal with it tightly.
Officials relied on harshness and cruelty to establish their authority, and with Wang Mang's ban, they invaded and plundered the weak common people.
The rich cannot protect themselves, and the poor cannot survive, so they band together and become thieves. Depending on the dangers of the mountains and lakes, the officials cannot capture them and conceal the truth. Things get bigger and bigger, so there are often tens of thousands of people in Qing, Xu, Jingchu and other places.
Those who died in wars, those who were captured by ethnic minorities along the border, those who broke the law, those who died of hunger and disease, and those who cannibalized people. In this way, before Wang Mang was killed, the household registration in the world had been reduced by half.
Four years after the conquest of Zhutu Xiyong, the Han army killed Wang Mang.
Two years later, Shizu accepted the destiny, eliminated the cumbersome and harsh criminal laws, restored the five-baht coin, and worked with the people of the world to eliminate the old and introduce the new.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
赞曰：《易》称 裒多益寡，称物平施 ，《书》云 茂迁有无 ，周有泉府之官，而《孟子》亦非 狗彘食人之食不知敛，野有饿殍而弗知发 。
故管氏之轻重，李悝之平籴，弘羊均输，寿昌常平，亦有从徠。
顾古为之有数，吏良而令行，故民赖其利，万国作乂。
及孝武时，国用饶给，而民不益赋，其次也。
至于王莽，制度失中，奸轨弄权，官民俱竭，亡次矣。
translation: 
Praising: "Yi" said: "take out the more and give to the less, weigh the amount of material and then give it fairly", "Book" said "trade with or without", the Zhou Dynasty had the official position of Quanfu, and "Mencius" still criticized dogs and pigs when they eat human food, they don't know how to restrain themselves, and there are people who starve to death in the fields but they don't know how to open warehouses to relieve the people.
Therefore, Guanzi's theories on commodities, currencies, and prices, Li Kui's Pingluo method, Sang Hongyang's adjustment of transportation to suppress prices, and Geng Shouchang's establishment of Changpingcang are all for a reason.
It’s just that in ancient times, these things were done with moderation, the officials were good, and the laws were implemented, so the people relied on them to benefit, and the world was peaceful.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowu, the country's expenses were abundant, and the people did not increase taxes, so their education was not good enough.
By the time of Wang Mang, the system was out of whack, evildoers had the power, the officials and the people were being squeezed dry, and the education was even worse.


