Chunk 0: 
original: 
朱异贺琛朱异，字彦和，吴郡钱唐人也。
父巽，以义烈知名，官至齐江夏王参军、吴平令。
异年数岁，外祖顾欢抚之，谓异祖昭之曰： 此儿非常器，当成卿门户。
年十余岁，好群聚蒲博，颇为乡党所患。
既长，乃折节从师，遍治《五经》，尤明《礼》、《易》，涉猎文史，兼通杂艺，博弈书算，皆其所长。
年二十，诣都，尚书令沈约面试之，因戏异曰： 卿年少，何乃不廉？
异逡巡未达其旨。
约乃曰： 天下唯有文义棋书，卿一时将去，可谓不廉也。
其年，上书言建康宜置狱司，比廷尉。敕付尚书详议，从之。
旧制，年二十五方得释褐。
时异适二十一，特敕擢为扬州议曹从事史。
寻有诏求异能之士，《五经》博士明山宾表荐异曰： 窃见钱唐硃异，年时尚少，德备老成。在独无散逸之想，处暗有对宾之色，器宇弘深，神表峰峻。
金山万丈，缘陟未登；玉海千寻，窥映不测。
加以珪璋新琢，锦组初构，触响铿锵，值采便发。
观其信行，非惟十室所稀，若使负重遥途，必有千里之用。
高祖召见，使说《孝经》、《周易》义，甚悦之，谓左右曰： 硃异实异。
后见明山宾，谓曰： 卿所举殊得其人。
仍召异直西省，俄兼太学博士。
其年，高祖自讲《孝经》，使异执读。
迁尚书仪曹郎，入兼中书通事舍人，累迁鸿胪卿，太子右卫率，寻加员外常侍。
translation: 
Zhu Yi, whose courtesy name was Yanhe, was from Qiantang, Wu County.
His father, Zhu Xun, was well-known for his loyalty and righteousness. He served as an official in the Qi Dynasty until the king of Jiangxia joined the army and was ordered by Wu Ping.
When Zhu Yi was old, his grandfather stroked Zhu Yi's head happily and said to his grandfather Zhaozhi: "This son is not an ordinary person. He will become your family."
He is more than ten years old. He likes to gamble in groups and is extremely hated by the township party.
When he grew up, he forced himself to change his bad habits and studied as a teacher. He studied the Five Classics, especially "Li" and "Yi", dabbled in literature and history, and was proficient in miscellaneous arts. He was good at gambling, go, calligraphy, and arithmetic.
When he was twenty years old, he arrived in the capital. The Minister ordered Shen to interview him, so he joked with him: "You are young, why are you not honest?"
Zhu Yi hesitated and did not understand the meaning of these words.
Shen Yue then said: "The only skills in the world are literature, history, classics, Yi, chess, calligraphy and so on. If you take them all at once, you can call them dishonest."
In this year, a letter was written stating that it was appropriate for Jiankang to set up a prison department, and Yu Tingwei was of the same rank. The edict was submitted to Yu Shangshu for detailed discussion, and he agreed with his opinion.
Under the old system, one could only become an official at the age of twenty-five.
At this time, Zhu Yi was twenty-one years old, and the imperial court made an exception and ordered him to be promoted to the post of Yangzhou Councilor to engage in history.
Not long ago, Shaoling was looking for people with special talents. Doctor Mingshan of the Five Classics recommended Zhu Yi and said: I met Zhu Yi, a native of Qiantang. He was still young, but he had perfect moral character, was shrewd and sophisticated in his work, had no thoughts of distraction when he was alone, and when no one saw him, he still looked respectful as if he were facing guests. His mind was broad and deep, and his demeanor was extraordinary.
For example, a famous mountain is so high that it is difficult to climb to the top; a blue sea is so deep that it is difficult to peer into its depths.
Another example is that Guizhang has just been carved, and the brocade group he is wearing begins to weave. When touched, it will make a loud sound, and the decoration will appear in the world.
Observe his honest character, which is not only rare among ten families. If he is allowed to carry a heavy load and gallop on a long distance, he will definitely have the function of a thousand-mile horse.
Emperor Gaozu summoned him and asked him to explain the principles of "The Book of Filial Piety" and "The Book of Changes". He was very happy after hearing this and said to the people around him: "Zhu Yi is indeed special."
Later I met Ming Shanbin and said to him: The person you recommended is indeed a very qualified person.
So he called Zhu Yi to be on duty in the Western Province, and soon he became a doctor of Imperial College.
This year, Emperor Gaozu personally explained the "Book of Filial Piety" and asked Zhu Yi to read it.
He was moved to the post of Minister Yi Cao Lang, and concurrently served as Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to Hongluqing, the prince's right guard, and soon he was appointed as a member of the imperial family.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
普通五年，大举北伐，魏徐州刺史元法僧遣使请举地内属，诏有司议其虚实。
异曰： 自王师北讨，克获相继，徐州地转削弱，咸愿归罪法僧，法僧惧祸之至，其降必非伪也。
高祖仍遣异报法僧，并敕众军应接，受异节度。
既至，法僧遵承朝旨，如异策焉。
中大通元年，迁散骑常侍。
自周舍卒后，异代掌机谋，方镇改换，朝仪国典，诏诰敕书，并兼掌之。
每四方表疏，当局簿领，谘询详断，填委于前。异属辞落纸，览事下议，纵横敏赡，不暂停笔，顷刻之间，诸事便了。
大同四年，迁右卫将军。
六年，异启于仪贤堂奉述高祖《老子义》，敕许之。
及就讲，朝士及道俗听者千余人，为一时之盛。
时城西又开士林馆以延学士，异与左丞贺琛递日述高祖《礼记中庸义》，皇太子又召异于玄圃讲《易》。
八年，改加侍中。
太清元年，迁左卫将军，领步兵。
二年，迁中领军，舍人如故。
高祖梦中原平，举朝称庆，旦以语异，异对曰： 此宇内方一之征。
及侯景归降，敕召群臣议，尚书仆射谢举等以为不可，高祖欲纳之，未决；尝夙兴至武德阁，自言 我国家承平若此，今便受地，讵是事宜，脱致纷纭，悔无所及 。
异探高祖微旨，应声答曰： 圣明御宇，上应苍玄，北土遗黎，谁不慕仰？为无机会，未达其心。
今侯景分魏国太半，输诚送款，远归圣朝，岂非天诱其衷，人奖其计！
原心审事，殊有可嘉。
今若不容，恐绝后来之望。
此诚易见，愿陛下无疑。
高祖深纳异言，又感前梦，遂纳之。
及贞阳败没，自魏遣使还，述魏相高澄欲更申和睦。敕有司定议，异又以和为允，高祖果从之。
其年六月，遣建康令谢挺、通直郎徐陵使北通好。
是时，侯景镇寿春，累启绝和，及请追使。
又致书与异，辞意甚切，异但述敕旨以报之。
八月，景遂举兵反，以讨异为名。
募兵得三千人，及景至，仍以其众守大司马门。
初，景谋反，合州刺史鄱阳王范、司州刺史羊鸦仁并累有启闻，异以景孤立寄命，必不应尔，乃谓使者： 鄱阳王遂不许国家有一客！
并抑而不奏，故朝廷不为之备。
及寇至，城内文武咸尤之。
皇太子又制《围城赋》，其末章云： 彼高冠及厚履，并鼎食而乘肥，升紫霄之丹地，排玉殿之金扉，陈谋谟之启沃，宣政刑之福威，四郊以之多垒，万邦以之未绥。
translation: 
In the fifth year of the Ordinary Period, a large-scale Northern Expedition was launched. Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in the Northern Wei Dynasty, sent an envoy to ask for the surrender of the land and the people. Shao ordered a minister to discuss the truth of the matter.
Zhu Yi said: Since the king's army marched north and continued to win, the local forces in Xuzhou have weakened, and they all want to blame Fa Monk. Fa Monk is afraid of the impending disaster, so his surrender will not be false.
Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Yi to report to the Dharma monk and ordered all the troops to respond, all under Zhu Yi's command.
After arriving, the monk followed the imperial decree, just as Zhu Yi predicted.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he moved to serve as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Since Zhou She's death, Zhu Yi took his place in charge of the court's affairs, the replacement of military commanders, court rituals and state codes, and the drafting of Shao's imperial edicts.
Whenever people from all over the world come in to submit their reports, the official records and detailed consultations are all piled up in front of him. Zhu Yi writes with his pen and makes decisions. He is talented and smart. He keeps writing in his hand, and everything is done in an instant.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was promoted to General Youwei.
In the sixth year, Zhu Yishou told the "Lao Zi Yi" written by Chan Dan in Jinshu Hall, and the imperial order allowed it.
When he sat down to speak, there were more than a thousand people from the imperial court and Taoists and laymen listening, which became a grand event at that time.
At that time, the Shilin Museum was opened in the west of the city to introduce scholars. Zhu Yiyu and Zuo Cheng He Chen took turns lecturing on the "Book of Rites" written by Gao Zu, and the crown prince summoned Zhu Yi to lect on "Yi" in Xuanpu.
In the eighth year, he was appointed as a servant.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was moved to the position of general of Zuowei and led the infantry.
In the second year, he was moved to the position of leader, but his family remained as usual.
Emperor Gaozu dreamed that he had pacified the Central Plains, and he praised and celebrated it. The next morning, he told Zhu Yi the dream, and Zhu Yi replied: This is a sign of the unification of the four directions in the universe.
When Hou Jing returned and surrendered, he summoned the ministers to discuss it. Shangshu Pu She Xie Li and others thought it was unacceptable to accept it. Emperor Gaozu wanted to take Zhu Yi over, but the matter was pending. Zeng came to Wu Shanyu at dawn and said to himself: Our country is so peaceful that I will accept the land now. If doing so will cause chaos to the country, it will be too late to regret it.
Zhu Yi sensed Gaozu's hidden thoughts and responded: The wise emperor rules the world and obeys the will of heaven. The people of the subjugated north do not admire you because they have no chance to express their wishes.
Now Hou Jing divides most of the land of Wei State, sincerely expresses his submission, and comes from afar to join the Holy Dynasty. Isn't it true that God enlightens his heart and everyone helps him realize his plan?
After deducing Hou Jing's original intention and examining this matter, it is highly commendable.
If we don't accept him today, I'm afraid it will make those who come after us despair.
This is obvious, may your Majesty have no doubts.
Emperor Gaozu wanted to adopt Zhu Yi's advice, but he thought of his previous dream, so he accepted Hou Jing's surrender.
The Marquis of Zhenyang was defeated and captured, and an envoy was sent back from Wei to tell him that Gao Cheng, the prime minister of Wei, wanted to live in harmony with the Liang Dynasty again.
In June of that year, Jiankang Ling Xie Ting and Tongzhi Lang Xu Ling were sent as envoys to Tonghao in the north.
At that time, Hou Jing was guarding Shouchun. He repeatedly warned Gaozu to sever peace with Wei and asked for the envoy to be recovered.
He also wrote to Zhu Yi with sincere words, but Zhu Yi just relayed the imperial edict in reply.
In August, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel in the name of condemning Zhu Yi.
Zhu Yi recruited 3,000 troops. Hou Jing marched to Beijing and used these people to guard Da Sima Gate.
At the beginning, Hou Jing conspired to rebel, and the governor of Hezhou, Xiao Fan, the king of Poyang, and the governor of Sizhou, Yang Yaren, reported many times. Zhu Yi thought that Hou Jing would not do that if he was sent to the Liang Dynasty alone, so he said to the envoy: The king of Poyang does not allow the country to have a guest!
He also suppressed the report and did not report it, so the court did not take precautions against this matter.
When Hou Jing came to invade, the civil and military officials in the city blamed him.
The crown prince also wrote "Ode to the Siege of the City", the last chapter of which says: Wearing a high crown and thick-soled shoes, he sat on a fat horse, climbed to the palace where the emperor lived, opened the golden gate of the royal family, stated strategies to assist the king, and announced the power of political punishments. Many fortifications were built in the surrounding suburbs, and all nations were unrest.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
问豺狼其何者？
访虺蜴之为谁？
盖以指异。
异因惭愤，发病卒，时年六十七。
方赞朝经，永申寄任。奄先物化，恻悼兼怀。
可赠侍中、尚书右仆射，给秘器一具。
凶事所须，随由资办。
旧尚书官不以为赠，及异卒，高祖惜之，方议赠事。左右有善异者，乃启曰： 异忝历虽多，然平生所怀，愿得执法。
高祖因其宿志，特有此赠焉。
异居权要三十余年，善窥人主意曲，能阿谀以承上旨，故特被宠任。
历官自员外常侍至侍中，四官皆珥貂，自右卫率至领军，四职并驱卤簿，近代未之有也。
异及诸子自潮沟列宅至青溪，其中有台池玩好，每暇日与宾客游焉。
四方所馈，财货充积。
性吝啬，未尝有散施。
厨下珍羞腐烂，每月常弃十数车，虽诸子别房亦不分赡。
所撰《礼》、《易》讲疏及仪注、文集百余篇，乱中多亡逸。
长子肃，官至国子博士；次子闰，司徒掾。
并遇乱卒。
贺琛，字国宝，会稽山阴人也。
伯父蒨，步兵校尉，为世硕儒。
琛幼，蒨授其经业，一闻便通义理。
蒨异之，常曰： 此儿当以明经致贵。
蒨卒后，琛家贫，常往还诸暨，贩粟以自给。
闲则习业，尤精《三礼》。
初，蒨于乡里聚徒教授，至是又依琛焉。
普通中，刺史临川王辟为祭酒从事史。
琛始出都，高祖闻其学术，召见文德殿，与语悦之，谓仆射徐勉曰： 琛殊有世业。
仍补王国侍郎，俄兼太学博士，稍迁中卫参军事、尚书通事舍人，参礼仪事。
累迁通直正员郎，舍人如故。
又征西鄱阳王中录事，兼尚书左丞，满岁为真。
诏琛撰《新谥法》，至今施用。
translation: 
May I ask the jackal who he is?
May I ask the gizzard who he is for?
This refers to Zhu Yi.
Zhu Yi was so angry that he fell ill and died at the age of sixty-seven.
Shaoling said: Zhu Yi, the leader of the old army, has a broad mind and outstanding talents. He has been discussing and planning strategies in the court for many years. I was supposed to be assisting the imperial government in its administration, and I had entrusted him with important responsibilities for a long time. He died suddenly, and my heart was filled with sadness.
You can posthumously give him a coffin as a posthumous gift from his attendant and minister, Youpu She.
The money needed for the funeral can be provided at will.
In the past, when ministers died, they did not give posthumous gifts to the chancellor. When Zhu Yi passed away, Emperor Gaozu felt sorry for him. When discussing the matter of posthumous gifts, some people who were friendly to Zhu Yi began to report: Although Zhu Yi held many officials, what he hoped for in his life was to be a law enforcement official.
According to his long-cherished ambition, Emperor Gaozu made this posthumous gift.
Zhu Yi had been in power for more than thirty years. He was good at peering into the innermost intentions of his lord, and he was able to flatter and obey the emperor's orders, so he was particularly favored.
Officials in the officialdom often serve from outside to the middle. All these four positions can wear mink tails on their hats, and lead from the right guard to the leader. These four positions all have retinues and honor guards when they travel. There has never been such a thing in modern times.
Zhu Yi and his disciples built houses from Chaogou all the way to Qingxi. The house was surrounded by terraces and ponds, where they could play with guests every spare time.
Gifts from all parties and wealth accumulated.
He has a stingy temperament and has never given anything to others.
The delicacies in the kitchen were delicious and rotten, and more than ten carts of them were often thrown away every month, even though his sons and relatives did not give them away.
He wrote more than 100 expositions, notes on rituals, and essays on "Li" and "Yi", many of which were lost during the war.
The eldest son was named Su, and he was a doctor of state; the second son was named Run, and he was appointed as Situ Tuo.
Both died in the war.
He Chen, named Guobao, was from Shanyin in Kuaiji.
His uncle He Chang was appointed as an infantry captain and was a great Confucianist of the time.
When He Chen was young, He Chang taught him Confucian classics, and he could understand the principles as soon as he listened.
He Yi felt very strange and often said: "This son should be distinguished by his understanding of the meaning of the scriptures."
After He Chang's death, He Chen's family was poor and he often traveled to and from Zhuji, selling millet to support himself.
In his spare time, he studied economics and was especially proficient in the "Three Rites".
At first, He Jiang gathered his disciples in the countryside to teach economics, but now they started to learn economics from He Chen.
In ordinary years, the governor of Linchuan called him to serve as a wine minister and engage in history.
He Ge began to show his talents in the capital. When Emperor Gaozu learned that he had knowledge, he summoned him in the Wende Hall and talked happily with him. He told Xu Mian, a servant of Xu Mian: "He Ge indeed has a scholarship that has been handed down from generation to generation."
So he was appointed as the minister of the kingdom, and soon he was concurrently appointed as the doctor of Taixue. Then he was moved to the position of Zhongwei to participate in military affairs, Shangshu general, Shiren, and ceremonial affairs.
After many years of promotion, he was promoted to Tongzhi Zhengyuanlang, but he remained the same.
He was also appointed to record the affairs of the king of Poyang in the west, and concurrently served as minister Zuo Cheng. Upon completion of his term, he was actually granted the title.
He Chen was ordered to compile the "New Mi Law", which is still in use today.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
时皇太子议，大功之末，可以冠子嫁女。
琛驳之曰：
令旨以 大功之末可得冠子嫁女，不得自冠自嫁。
推以《记》文，窃犹致惑。
案嫁冠之礼，本是父之所成，无父之人，乃可自冠。故称大功小功，并以冠子嫁子为文；非关惟得为子，己身不得也。
小功之末，既得自嫁娶，而亦云 冠子娶妇 ，其义益明。
故先列二服，每明冠子嫁子，结于后句，方显自娶之义。
既明小功自娶，即知大功自冠矣，盖是约言而见旨。
若谓缘父服大功，子服小功，小功服轻，故得为子冠嫁，大功服重，故不得自嫁自冠者，则小功之末，非明父子服殊，不应复云 冠子嫁子 也。
若谓小功之文言己可娶，大功之文不言己冠，故知身有大功，不得自行嘉礼，但得为子冠嫁。
窃谓有服不行嘉礼，本为吉凶不可相干。
子虽小功之末，可得行冠嫁，犹应须父得为其冠嫁。
若父于大功之末可以冠子嫁子，是于吉凶礼无碍；吉凶礼无碍，岂不得自冠自嫁？
若自冠自嫁于事有碍，则冠子嫁子宁独可通？
今许其冠子而塞其自冠，是琛之所惑也。
又令旨推 下殇小功不可娶妇，则降服大功亦不得为子冠嫁 。
伏寻此旨，若谓降服大功不可冠子嫁子，则降服小功亦不可自冠自娶，是为凡厥降服大功小功皆不得冠娶矣。
《记》文应云降服则不可，宁得惟称下殇？
今不言降服，的举下殇，实有其义。
夫出嫁出后，或有再降，出后之身，于本姊妹降为大功；若是大夫服士，又以尊降，则成小功。
其于冠嫁，义无以异。
所以然者，出嫁则有受我，出后则有传重，并欲薄于此而厚于彼，此服虽降，彼服则隆。
昔实期亲，虽再降犹依小功之礼，可冠可嫁。
若夫期降大功，大功降为小功，止是一等，降杀有伦，服末嫁冠，故无有异。
惟下殇之服，特明不娶之义者，盖缘以幼稚之故。夭丧情深，既无受厚佗姓，又异传重彼宗，嫌其年稚服轻，顿成杀略，故特明不娶，以示本重之恩。
是以凡厥降服，冠嫁不殊；惟在下殇，乃明不娶。
其义若此，则不得言大功之降服，皆不可冠嫁也。
且《记》云 下殇小功 ，言下殇则不得通于中上，语小功则不得兼于大功。
若实大小功降服皆不冠嫁，上中二殇亦不冠嫁者，《记》不得直云 下殇小功则不可 。
恐非文意。
translation: 
At that time, the crown prince suggested that at the end of the great career, the crown prince could marry the daughter.
He Chen retorted:
The decree holds that at the end of the great career, one can crown a son and marry a daughter, but one is not allowed to crown oneself and hold a wedding ceremony on one's own.
Looking at the literal meaning of "Book of Rites", I am still very confused about this explanation.
Looking at the etiquette of marrying a crown, it is originally presided over by the father. Only those without fathers can do the ceremony on their own, so it is called great merit and small merit, and it is a ritual system to marry a crown to a son;
At the end of Xiaogong, you can marry on your own, and it is also said that "a crown prince marries a wife", and its meaning becomes clearer.
Therefore, the two names for mourning are listed first, both of which state that the crown is married to the son, and they are placed in the next sentence, which clearly shows the meaning of marrying.
Since it is obvious that small meritorious deeds lead to self-marriage, it means that great meritorious deeds can lead to self-importance. This is to express the will in simple language.
If it is said that because the father is in mourning for a great service, the son is in mourning for a minor service, and the mourning for a minor service is light, he can marry his son with a crown, but the mourning for a major service is heavy, so he is not allowed to marry himself.
If it is said that the article of small merit has already stated that one can marry, the article of great merit does not say that one can be crowned. Therefore, knowing that one is in mourning for great merit, one is not allowed to give gifts on his own, but he can be crowned and married for his son.
I believe that rituals should not be performed when in mourning. The rituals of good and bad fortune should not interfere with each other.
Although the son is at the end of his life and can get married, his father still has to perform the wedding for them if necessary.
If the father can crown his son and marry his son at the end of his great work, it means that there is no obstacle between good and bad rites; there is no obstacle between good and bad rites, how can he not be allowed to marry by himself?
If one's crown and one's own marriage interferes with mourning, then is it possible for one's crown to marry one's own son alone?
He Chen was puzzled by the fact that he was allowed to be crowned his son but not allowed to crown himself.
He also decreed that if you have accomplished a small feat of sacrifice, you are not allowed to marry a wife, and if you have a great merit of surrendering, you are not allowed to marry a wife for your son.
I have studied this purpose and found out that if you have done a great job of surrender, you cannot marry someone else, and if you have done a small job in surrender, you cannot marry someone else. This means that anyone who has done a great job in surrender cannot be married.
In this case, the "Book of Rites" should say that if you surrender, you cannot marry, how can it only talk about mourning?
Today we don’t talk about surrender, but only mourning, which actually has its meaning.
When a man marries and adopts someone else as a heir, or he goes through mourning and then surrenders, and when he meets a person who is passed on to someone else, it is considered a great merit to surrender to his biological sister; if a doctor is in mourning for his father who is a scholar, and because he surrenders with respect, it becomes a small merit.
There is no difference in the meaning of "倭" for crown marriage.
So it is like this, because when you get married, you have to bear the responsibility of yourself, and when you meet someone else, you have to inherit the heavy responsibility, and you want to be less generous with one and more generous with the other. Although this is a surrender, the other is prosperous.
In the past, I served as a mourner for my relatives. Although I surrendered again, I still followed the etiquette of Xiaogong and could be crowned or married.
If the great merit is reduced to a minor merit, it will only be downgraded by one level. There are regulations for downgrading, but there is no difference if one accepts the lowest grade and marries the crown.
Only wearing mourning clothes expresses his intention not to marry. Because he died young, he was deeply in mourning. He was not favored by others, and the public opinion was different from the other sect. He thought he was too young to be mourned lightly, which immediately became a murderous strategy. Therefore, he specifically expressed his intention not to marry, to show his true kindness.
Therefore, there is no difference in surrendering and marrying; only in mourning can one express his intention not to marry.
The meaning is this, and it cannot be said that the surrender of great merit cannot be crowned and married.
Moreover, the "Book of Rites" says "Xia Shang is a small meritorious deed", which means that the lower Shang can not be applied to both the Zhongyu and Shangshang, and the small merits cannot be used in both great merits.
If it is true that the surrender of small and large merits is not worthy of marriage, and the sacrifice of the upper and middle grades is not worthy of marriage, the "Book of Rites" cannot only say that "the lower sacrifices of small merits are not worthy of marriage".
I'm afraid it's not the literal meaning.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
此又琛之所疑也。
遂从琛议。
迁员外散骑常侍。
旧尚书南坐，无貂；貂自琛始也。
顷之，迁御史中丞，参礼仪事如先。
琛家产既豊，买主第为宅，为有司所奏，坐免官。
俄复为尚书左丞，迁给事黄门侍郎，兼国子博士，未拜，改为通直散骑常侍，领尚书左丞，并参礼仪事。
琛前后居职，凡郊庙诸仪，多所创定。
每见高祖，与语常移晷刻，故省中为之语曰： 上殿不下有贺雅。
琛容止都雅，故时人呼之。
迁散骑常侍，参礼仪如故。
是时，高祖任职者，皆缘饰奸谄，深害时政，琛遂启陈事条封奏曰：
臣荷拔擢之恩，曾不能效一职；居献纳之任，又不能荐一言。
窃闻 慈父不爱无益之子，明君不畜无益之臣 ，臣所以当食废飧，中宵而叹息也。
辄言时事，列之于后。
非谓谋猷，宁云启沃。
独缄胸臆，不语妻子。
辞无粉饰，削槁则焚。
脱得听览，试加省鉴。
如不允合，亮其戆愚。
其一事曰：今北边稽服，戈甲解息，政是生聚教训之时，而天下户口减落，诚当今之急务。
虽是处雕流，而关外弥甚，郡不堪州之控总，县不堪郡之裒削，更相呼扰，莫得治其政术，惟以应赴征敛为事。
百姓不能堪命，各事流移，或依于大姓，或聚于屯封，盖不获已而窜亡，非乐之也。
国家于关外赋税盖微，乃至年常租课，动致逋积，而民失安居，宁非牧守之过？
东境户口空虚，皆由使命繁数。
夫犬不夜吠，故民得安居。
translation: 
This is what He Chen is confused about again.
Then he listened to He Chen's argument.
He was moved to serve as an official and a regular attendant.
In the old days, the minister's seat was in the south and he did not wear mink clothes; the wearing of mink clothes started from He Chen.
Soon after, he was moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng and participated in ceremonial affairs as before.
Since He Chen's family had a large fortune, he bought the princess's house as a residence. He was impeached by a minister and was dismissed from office because of this.
Soon after, he was appointed Zuocheng, the minister, and was transferred to serve as the minister of Huangmen and the doctor of Guozi. He was not appointed as the official minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, and was appointed as the minister Zuocheng, and participated in ceremonial affairs.
He Chen served successively, and most of the rituals for sacrifices in suburban temples were formulated by him.
Whenever I see Gaozu, I often talk with him for a long time, so people in the palace say: "There is no He Ya in the upper palace."
He Sui's appearance and demeanor were very elegant, so people called him that way.
He was moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi, and the etiquette remained as usual.
At that time, the officials appointed by Emperor Gaozu were all guilty of treachery, which seriously harmed the current affairs. Therefore, He Bao issued a sealed report stating:
The minister received the grace of being promoted, but he could not serve in the post; the great ancestor had the important task of giving loyal advice, but he could not recommend a word.
It is said that a loving father does not like a son who does nothing, and a wise king does not tolerate incompetent ministers. Therefore, I forget to sleep and eat after receiving my salary, and sigh in the middle of the night.
Then he talked about current affairs and listed them later.
It can't be called a strategy, but rather a matter of loyalty.
Keep it to yourself and don't tell your wife or children.
There is no embellishment to the words, and the drafts are burned after they are written.
Maybe you can listen to it, please try to review it.
If you don't agree, please forgive me for being stupid.
One of the things is: Today, the Northern Wei Dynasty has kowtowed and professed its vassalage, and its weapons and uniforms have been taken off. It is the time for the people to reproduce and accumulate wealth and educate them. However, the number of household registrations in the world is decreasing. This is indeed an urgent matter today.
Although it was in decline and scattered everywhere, and it was even more serious outside the customs, the counties could not bear the numerous pressures from the state, and the counties could not bear the raids of the counties. They disturbed one after another, and did not implement political skills, but only went to collect the goods as their business.
The people could not accept the orders, so they went into exile, or attached themselves to the common surnames, or gathered at the borders. They were forced to flee as a last resort, and they were not willing to do so.
The state collects very light taxes from outside the customs, and even the normal rental classes back then were often in arrears and accumulated a backlog, and the people lost their homes. Isn't it Mu Shou's fault?
The empty household registration in Shujing is due to the numerous tasks.
The dogs do not bark at night, so the people can live in peace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
今大邦大县，舟舸衔命者，非惟十数；复穷幽之乡，极远之邑，亦皆必至。
每有一使，属所搔扰；况复烦扰积理，深为民害。
驽困邑宰，则拱手听其渔猎；桀黠长吏，又因之而为贪残。
纵有廉平，郡犹掣肘。
故邑宰怀印，类无考绩，细民弃业，流冗者多，虽年降复业之诏，屡下蠲赋之恩，而终不得反其居也。
其二事曰：圣主恤隐之心，纳隍之念，闻之遐迩，至于翾飞蠕动，犹且度脱，况在兆庶。
而州郡无恤民之志，故天下颙颙，惟注仰于一人，诚所谓 爱之如父母，仰之如日月，敬之如鬼神，畏之如雷霆 。
苟须应痛逗药，岂可不治之哉？
今天下宰守所以皆尚贪残，罕有廉白者，良由风俗侈靡。使之然也。
淫奢之弊，其事多端，粗举二条，言其尤者。
夫食方丈于前，所甘一味。
今之燕喜，相竞夸豪，积果如山岳，列肴同绮绣，露台之产，不周一燕之资，而宾主之间，裁取满腹，未及下堂，已同臭腐。
又歌姬儛女，本有品制，二八之锡，良待和戎。
今畜妓之夫，无有等秩，虽复庶贱微人，皆盛姬姜，务在贪污，争饰罗绮。
故为吏牧民者，竞为剥削，虽致赀巨亿，罢归之日，不支数年，便已消散。
盖由宴醑所费，既破数家之产；歌谣之具，必俟千金之资。
所费事等丘山，为欢止在俄顷。
乃更追恨向所取之少，今所费之多。如复傅翼，增其搏噬，一何悖哉！
其余淫侈，著之凡百，习以成俗，日见滋甚，欲使人守廉隅，吏尚清白，安可得邪！
今诚宜严为禁制，道之以节俭，贬黜雕饰，纠奏浮华，使众皆知，变其耳目，改其好恶。
translation: 
In today's big states and counties, big ships are ordered to come, not only from Shifu; but also from poor and secluded villages. Even the most remote small towns must be reached.
Every time a messenger comes, there will be harassment, not to mention the continuous harassment, which is deeply harmful to the people.
Officials with low talents and tiredness surrendered themselves to the envoys' raids; ferocious and cunning officials relied on the envoys to become even more corrupt.
Even if there are honest officials, county officials will still be constrained.
Therefore, the governor of the city had a great seal, but the categories were not assessed. The people abandoned their businesses and many people were displaced. Although they were allowed to resume their businesses every year in the lower summer and were given many tax exemptions, the people were not allowed to return to the place where they lived.
The second thing is: the Holy Lord is concerned about the sufferings of the people, and the people's urgent mood for water and fire is heard far and near. As for those flying and wriggling insects, if they can relieve the suffering, let alone the people.
However, the officials of the prefectures and counties have no emotion to worry about the suffering of the people. Therefore, the people of the world can only look forward to one person. As it is said, they love him like their parents, look up to him like the sun and moon, respect him like ghosts and gods, and fear him like thunder.
If medicine can be administered according to the disease, how can the disease not be cured?
Today, all the ministers are greedy and corrupt, and there are very few who are honest and honest. It is indeed because of extravagant customs that they are like this.
The disadvantages of extravagance are manifested in many things. Let me briefly mention two of them and point out the most serious ones.
When people eat at a monk's place, they can only get good food.
Today is a feast that competes to show off its luxury. The accumulated fruits are like mountains, the delicacies on display are like embroidery, and the money used to build a terrace is less than the cost of a banquet. However, the choice between the host and the guest is just for the sake of fullness, so before they come down from the hall, the food has been thrown away with the rotten food.
Also, singers and dancers have a certain rank. At the age of sixteen, they should be waiting to get married.
People who keep prostitutes today have no rank. Although they are lowly and humble people, they all accept beautiful girls, Ji Jiang, do their best to embezzle, and compete for Luo Qi to decorate them.
Therefore, the herdsmen who served as officials competed to exploit the people, and even though they collected huge amounts of money, after they resigned from office and returned home, they could not support them for a few years, and all the money was spent.
It is because of the expense of banquets and fine wines that many people went bankrupt; the equipment needed for singing and dancing must be purchased with thousands of gold.
The things consumed are as much as hills and mountains, but just for a moment of pleasure.
He even resents that he has taken too little in the past but now spends too much. If he can become an official again, he will take more money. How ridiculous this is!
There will be thousands of other lewd and extravagant things written down, and they will become more and more common every day. If you want to make people keep their integrity in a corner, and make officials respect innocence, how can you get it!
Today, it is appropriate to impose strict restrictions, teach them to be frugal, demote those who are ornamental, engage in flashy things, and make them known to everyone, change their extravagant life of feasting, singing and dancing, and change their likes and dislikes.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
夫失节之嗟，亦民所自患，正耻不及群，故勉强而为之，苟力所不至，还受其弊矣。
今若厘其风而正其失，易于反掌。
夫论至治者，必以淳素为先，正雕流之弊，莫有过俭朴者也。
其三事曰：圣躬荷负苍生以为任，弘济四海以为心，不惮胼胝之劳，不辞癯瘦之苦，岂止日昃忘饥，夜分废寝。
至于百司，莫不奏事，上息责下之嫌，下无逼上之咎，斯实道迈百王，事超千载。
但斗筲之人，藻棁之子，既得伏奏帷扆，便欲诡竞求进，不说国之大体。
不知当一官，处一职，贵使理其紊乱，匡其不及，心在明恕，事乃平章。
但务吹毛求疵，擘肌分理，运挈瓶之智，徼分外之求，以深刻为能，以绳逐为务，迹虽似于奉公，事更成其威福。
犯罪者多，巧避滋甚，旷官废职，长弊增奸，实由于此。
今诚愿责其公平之效，黜其谗愚之心，则下安上谧，无侥幸之患矣。
其四事曰：自征伐北境，帑藏空虚。
今天下无事，而犹日不暇给者，良有以也。
夫国弊则省其事而息其费，事省则养民，费息则财聚，止五年之中，尚于无事，必能使国豊民阜。
若积以岁月，斯乃范蠡灭吴之术，管仲霸齐之由。
今应内省职掌，各检其所部。
凡京师治、署、邸、肆应所为，或十条宜省其五，或三条宜除其一；及国容、戎备，在昔应多，在今宜少。
虽于后应多，即事未须，皆悉减省。
应四方屯、传、邸、治，或旧有，或无益，或妨民，有所宜除，除之；有所宜减，减之。
凡厥兴造，凡厥费财，有非急者，有役民者；又凡厥讨召，凡厥征求，虽关国计，权其事宜，皆须息费休民。
translation: 
Losing moral integrity is something that the people suffer from themselves. They are ashamed of not being able to join the group, so they do it reluctantly. If they try their best and fail to do so, they will suffer disadvantages.
Today, if you rectify the atmosphere and correct the disorder, it will be easy to turn back the palm.
When discussing perfect governance, honesty and simplicity must be the first priority. To correct the shortcomings of ornamental and licentiousness, there is no better way than to promote frugality.
The three things are: His Majesty takes it as his own responsibility to shoulder the responsibility of the people, and his wish to spread benefits to the world. He is not afraid of the hard work that wears out the calluses on his hands and feet, and does not refuse the hard work that makes the body weak. He is not only forgetful of hunger when the sun sets, and sleeps late at night.
As for Baisi, there is no one who does not report to the superiors. The suspicion of blaming the subordinates is stopped, and the subordinates are no longer guilty of persecuting the superiors. The way of governing the country is better than that of a hundred kings, and it has been recorded that it has caused troubles for more than a thousand years.
However, people with short talents and children from wealthy families, since they can perform in front of His Majesty, want to seek advancement through unfair means, regardless of the overall situation of the country.
I don’t know that the most important thing about being an official or holding any position is to control disorder, correct inappropriate things, and have a clear and forgiving heart, so that things can be done fairly.
They only find faults, make precise analyses, use shallow intelligence, make extraordinary demands, are capable of being severe and harsh, and devote themselves to correcting the faults of others and expelling them. Although their deportation behavior may seem to be fair, in fact it makes them more powerful.
There are more people committing crimes, and clever avoidance is even more serious. This is indeed the reason why officials are neglected and abolished, and evil and evil are promoted.
Now I sincerely hope to realize the benefits of requiring them to act fairly and get rid of their slanderous wishes, so that there will be stability below and peace above, and there will be no misfortune.
The fourth thing is: since the expedition to the north, the national treasury has been empty.
There is no war today, but there is still no time to spare. There is indeed a reason.
When the country is tired, it should reduce war and stop waste. If there are fewer things, it can support the people. If it stops waste, it can accumulate wealth. It only takes five years. If there is no war, the country will be rich and the people will be rich.
If accumulated over time, it will be Fan Li's method to reduce the Wu State, and Guan Zhong's method to make Qi State dominate.
Now we should reduce the number of officials and inspect their respective positions.
For all the things that should be done in the capital's administrative offices, government offices, official residences, and shops, five out of ten should be omitted, or one out of three should be omitted; as well as the national appearance and military equipment, there should be more in the past, but less today.
Although there should be more in the future, that is, things may not be necessary, so all is reduced.
If there are garrisons, post offices, official offices, and administrative offices in the four directions that are old, useless, or hinder the people, and should be eliminated, they should be eliminated; if there are any that should be reduced, they should be reduced.
Wherever there is construction, there is a waste of money, whether it is urgently needed or to serve the people; and when there is conquest, recruitment, expropriation or expropriation, even if it is related to the national economy and weighing matters, it is necessary to pay for it and rest the people.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
不息费，则无以聚财；不休民，则无以聚力。
故蓄其财者，所以大用之也；息其民者，所以大役之也。
若言小事不足害财，则终年不息矣；以小役不足妨民，则终年不止矣。
扰其民而欲求生聚殷阜，不可得矣。
耗其财而务赋敛繁兴，则奸诈盗窃弥生，是弊不息而其民不可使也，则难可以语富强而图远大矣。
自普通以来，二十余年，刑役荐起，民力雕流。
今魏氏和亲，疆埸无警，若不及于此时大息四民，使之生聚，减省国费，令府库蓄积，一旦异境有虞，关河可扫，则国弊民疲，安能振其远略？
事至方图，知不及矣。
书奏，高祖大怒，召主书于前，口授敕责琛曰：
謇謇有闻，殊称所期。
但朕有天下四十余年，公车谠言，见闻听览，所陈之事，与卿不异，常欲承用，无替怀抱，每苦倥偬，更增惛惑。
卿珥貂纡组，博问洽闻，不宜同于郤茸，止取名字，宣之行路。
言 我能上事，明言得失，恨朝廷之不能用 。
或诵《离骚》 荡荡其无人，遂不御乎千里 。
或诵《老子》 知我者希，则我贵矣 。
如是献替，莫不能言，正旦虎樽，皆其人也。
卿可分别言事，启乃心，沃朕心。
卿云 今北边稽服，政是生聚教训之时，而民失安居，牧守之过 。
朕无则哲之知，触向多弊，四聪不开，四明不达，内省责躬，无处逃咎。
尧为圣主，四凶在朝；况乎朕也，能无恶人？
但大泽之中，有龙有蛇，纵不尽善，不容皆恶。
translation: 
If you don't pay taxes, you can't gather wealth; if you don't rest people, you can't gather people's strength.
Therefore, saving money is to use it for big things; recuperating the people is to use them for big labor.
If you think that small things will not cost much money, then the expenses will continue all year round; if you think that small labor will not hinder the people, then the labor will continue all year round.
It is impossible to harass the people in order to gain a prosperous life.
If their money is consumed to increase wealth and prosperity, treachery and theft will be more likely to grow. As a result, ills will continue and the people will not be able to use them. It is difficult to say that the country is rich and the people are strong and have lofty goals.
In the more than 20 years since the Revolution, criminal law and labor have gradually emerged, while the people's power has declined and dispersed.
Now that the Wei family is getting married, there is no alarm on the battlefield. It is better to take advantage of this time to take good care of the people, so that they can live together, reduce national expenses, and have reserves in the treasury. If there is a worry abroad, Guanhe can be swept away. But the country is exhausted and the people are tired, how can we implement far-reaching strategies?
The plan was only consummated after the incident happened, and it was too late to find out.
When the book was read, Emperor Gaozu was furious and called the master to come forward. He dictated an edict and asked He Chen:
Honest words are heard, and extra praise is what you expect.
But I have been in the world for more than 40 years. The Public Transport Department has received outspoken memorials. I have seen and heard them. The things they stated are no different from your statements. I always want to accept them and never give up their wishes. Every time I suffer from complicated things, I become more confused and confused.
A minister with a mink tail seal on his crown and a ribbon on his head means he is knowledgeable and knowledgeable. He should not be like a lowly person who only seeks fame and shows off on the road.
He said that he could do things to the higher authorities and clearly stated the political gains and losses, but it was a pity that the court could not adopt them.
Or recite "Li Sao" There is no one in the vast distance, so you can't drive a horse and carriage thousands of miles away.
Or recite "Laozi": If few people know me, then I will be valuable.
There is no one who can't speak out such criticisms and remonstrances. At the banquet on the first day of the first lunar month, there were all such people.
You can classify things, inspire my heart, and enlighten my mind.
Qing said: Now that the Eastern Wei Dynasty in the north is kowtowing and proclaiming its vassalage, it is the time for the people to reproduce and accumulate wealth and educate them. However, the people have lost their peaceful homes. This is the fault of Mu Shou.
I do not have the wisdom to understand people, and there are many shortcomings everywhere. I cannot listen to what is said in the four directions, and I cannot see everything in the four directions. I can examine and blame myself from the heart. There is no way to escape my sins.
Yao was the holy lord, but there were still four evil people in the court; not to mention me, how could there be no evil people in the court?
But in the great swamp, there are dragons and snakes, and even if they are not all good, they are not all evil.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
卿可分明显出：某刺史横暴，某太守贪残，某官长凶虐；尚书、兰台，主书、舍人，某人奸猾，某人取与，明言其事，得以黜陟。
向令舜但听公车上书，四凶终自不知，尧亦永为暗主。
卿又云 东境户口空虚，良由使命繁多 ，但未知此是何使？
卿云 驽困邑宰，则拱手听其渔猎；桀黠长吏，又因之而为贪残 ，并何姓名？
廉平掣肘，复是何人？
朝廷思贤，有如饥渴，廉平掣肘，实为异事。
宜速条闻，当更擢用。
凡所遣使，多由民讼，或复军粮，诸所飚急，盖不获已而遣之。
若不遣使，天下枉直云何综理？
事实云何济办？
恶人日滋，善人日蔽，欲求安卧，其可得乎！
不遣使而得事理，此乃佳事。
无足而行，无翼而飞，能到在所；不威而伏，岂不幸甚。
卿既言之，应有深见，宜陈秘术，不可怀宝迷邦。
卿又云：守宰贪残，皆由滋味过度。
贪残糜费，已如前答。
汉文虽爱露台之产，邓通之钱布于天下，以此而治，朕无愧焉。
若以下民饮食过差，亦复不然。
天监之初，思之已甚。
其勤力营产，则无不富饶；惰游缓事，则家业贫窭。
勤修产业，以营盘案，自己营之，自己食之，何损于天下？
无赖子弟，惰营产业，致于贫窭，无可施设，此何益于天下？
且又意虽曰同富，富有不同：悭而富者，终不能设；奢而富者，于事何损？
若使朝廷缓其刑，此事终不可断；若急其制，则曲屋密房之中，云何可知？
若家家搜检，其细已甚，欲使吏不呼门，其可得乎？
更相恐胁，以求财帛，足长祸萌，无益治道。
若以此指朝廷，我无此事。
translation: 
You can clearly point out: a certain governor is cruel, a certain eunuch is corrupt, a certain official is cruel; a minister, Lantai, a chief secretary, a minister, someone is cunning, someone accepts and gives, and he can be dismissed or promoted by clearly stating what he is doing.
If Shun had only listened to the letter from the bus, he would not have known about the four evils in the end, and Yao would have always been a fatuous monarch.
Qing also said that the household registration in Shujing was empty because of the large number of people sent on envoys, but it is unknown who these envoys were.
Qing said that the officials with low talents and tiredness surrendered themselves to the envoys' raids; the ferocious and cunning officials became even more corrupt and cruel by relying on the envoys. What are their names?
Who are the honest officials and the constrained officials?
It is a strange thing that the imperial court misses the virtuous, just as a hungry man seeks food, a thirsty man seeks water, and honest officials are hampered.
It should be reported one by one quickly and should be promoted more effectively.
Most of the envoys sent were due to civil lawsuits or for military supplies. These things were as fast as the wind, and they were all sent out of necessity.
If we don't send envoys, how can we deal with the injustice of the world?
How to handle things successfully?
Evil people are growing day by day, and good people are being buried day by day. If you want to find a peaceful place to sleep, how can you find it?
It is a good thing to manage things without sending envoys.
Able to walk without feet, able to fly without wings, able to reach where he wants to go; able to subdue others without exerting force, isn't it very lucky?
Since you say this, you should have profound insights and state the secret skills, and you should not be too talented to make the country confused.
Qing also said: The chief minister is greedy and cruel, all because of excessive and extravagant food.
The officials' corruption and wastefulness are as shown in the previous answer.
Although Mosai Tong was stingy with the money used to build the terrace, the money made by Deng Tong was all over the world. I have no shame in governing the country in this way.
If you think that the diet of the common people is poor, this is not the case.
In the early years, I thought about it a lot.
If they are diligent in running their property, then there will be no one who is not rich; if they are idle and not eager to make money, then their family will be poor.
If you work hard to buy property, use it to get food on the plate, run it yourself, and eat it yourself, what harm will this do to the world?
Scoundrels, who are not diligent in building property, make themselves poor, and do nothing, what good will this do to the world?
Moreover, logically speaking, they are both called rich, but being rich is different: if you are rich while being stingy, you will never be able to build anything; if you are rich while being extravagant, what harm will it do to things?
If the court postpones the punishment, the matter cannot be cut off; if it imposes a ban, how can we know what happened in the secret room of Quwu?
If we go to every house to search, we are doing this very meticulously. Is it possible to prevent the officials from calling the door?
This intensifies mutual threats and demands for property, which is enough to encourage the emergence of disasters and is not conducive to governance.
If this refers to the imperial court, I have no idea about it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
昔之牲牢，久不宰杀，朝中会同，菜蔬而已，意粗得奢约之节。
若复减此，必有《蟋蟀》之讥。
若以为功德事者，皆是园中之所产育。
功德之事，亦无多费，变一瓜为数十种，食一菜为数十味，不变瓜菜，亦无多种，以变故多，何损于事，亦豪芥不关国家。
如得财如法而用，此不愧乎人。
我自除公宴，不食国家之食，多历年稔，乃至宫人，亦不食国家之食，积累岁月。
凡所营造，不关材官，及以国匠，皆资雇借，以成其事。
近之得财，颇有方便，民得其利，国得其利，我得其利，营诸功德。
或以卿之心度我之心，故不能得知。
所得财用，暴于天下，不得曲辞辩论。
卿又云女妓越滥，此有司之责，虽然，亦有不同：贵者多畜妓乐，至于勋附若两掖，亦复不闻家有二八，多畜女妓者。
此并宜具言其人，当令有司振其霜豪。
卿又云： 乃追恨所取为少，如复傅翼，增其搏噬，一何悖哉。
勇怯不同，贪廉各用，勇者可使进取，怯者可使守城，贪者可使捍御，廉者可使牧民。
向使叔齐守于西河，岂能济事？
吴起育民，必无成功。
若使吴起而不重用，则西河之功废。
今之文武，亦复如此。
取其搏噬之用，不能得不重更任，彼亦非为朝廷为之傅翼。
卿以朝廷为悖，乃自甘之，当思致悖所以。
卿云 宜导之以节俭 。又云 至治者必以淳素为先 。
此言大善。
夫子言 其身正，不令而行；其身不正，虽令不从 。
朕绝房室三十余年，无有淫佚。
朕颇自计，不与女人同屋而寝，亦三十余年。
至于居处不过一床之地，雕饰之物不入于宫，此亦人所共知。
受生不饮酒，受生不好音声，所以朝中曲宴，未尝奏乐，此群贤之所观见。
translation: 
Animals used for sacrifices in the past. It has been a long time since butchering was done, and only vegetables were served when gathering in the court, which shows a rough understanding of the limits of luxury and frugality.
If the cost is further reduced, there will be the irony in "Cricket".
If you think that doing meritorious deeds is a waste, they are all produced in the garden.
When doing meritorious deeds, there is no need to spend too much money. One melon can be transformed into dozens of varieties. One dish can be made with more than ten flavors. The melons remain the same and there is no need to have more varieties. Changing the types will result in more flavors. What harm will be done to the matter has nothing to do with the country.
If you use this method to gain wealth, you will have nothing to be ashamed of in front of others.
I myself have not eaten the food of the state except official banquets for many years. Even the people in the palace have not eaten the food of the state for a long time.
Everything that was built did not go through the materials officials or the national craftsmen. They were all hired with money to complete the work.
It is extremely convenient to get wealth nearby, benefit the people, benefit the country, benefit me, and create various merits.
Or you can judge my heart based on your heart, so you cannot know these things.
The wealth obtained will be made public to the world, and no one-sided arguments will be allowed.
Qing also said that there is no restraint in keeping female prostitutes beyond the rank. This is the responsibility of the official. Even so, there are differences: wealthy people often keep prostitutes. As for the nobles, relatives, and officials such as Zhongshu Sheng, they have not heard that there are 16-year-old girls in the family, and many keep female prostitutes.
These should be spoken out to the person concerned and should be given the luxury of years of rectification.
Qing added: "Then I hate Xiang Ri even more for taking too little. If I can become an official again, I will double my money. How ridiculous this is."
Brave and cowardly people are different. Greedy and honest people have their own uses. A brave person can make him enterprising, a cowardly person can help him defend the city, a greedy person can help him defend against foreign invasion, and an honest person can help him govern the people.
If Shu Qi were to guard Xihe, would he be able to succeed?
And Wu Qi went to educate the people, but he would not succeed.
If Wu Qi is used instead of reused, he will not make great achievements in Xihe.
Today's use of civil and military officials is similar to this.
Take the role they can seize, and if that doesn't work, they don't have to be re-appointed. They are not entrusted with a position of power by the court and do more evil.
If you think the court's actions are absurd, even if you are willing to do so, you should consider the reasons for the absurdity.
Qing said that they should be taught to be frugal, and said that the best management method must be to put honesty first.
This is a great saying.
Confucius said that if a person in power is upright, his subordinates will act without giving orders; if a person in power is not upright, his subordinates will not obey even if they give orders.
It has been more than thirty years since I lost my wife, maid, and concubine, and I have never behaved in a lustful and dissolute manner.
I am very capable of thinking about myself, and I have not slept in the same room with a woman for more than thirty years.
As for the size of the residence, it is no more than a bed, and it is well known that carved things are not allowed into the palace.
His nature is not to drink alcohol, and his nature does not like sound, so the court held a banquet without playing music, which was seen by all the wise men.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
朕三更出理事，随事多少，事少或中前得竟，或事多至日昃方得就食。
日常一食，若昼若夜，无有定时。
疾苦之日，或亦再食。
昔要腹过于十围，今之瘦削裁二尺余，旧带犹存，非为妄说。
为谁为之？
救物故也。
《书》曰： 股肱惟人，良臣惟圣。
向使朕有股肱，故可得中主。
今乃不免居九品之下， 不令而行 ，徒虚言耳。
卿今慊言，便罔知所答。
卿又云 百司莫不奏事，诡竞求进 。
此又是谁？
何者复是诡事？
今不使外人呈事，于义可否？
无人废职，职可废乎？
职废则人乱，人乱则国安乎？
以咽废飧，此之谓也。
若断呈事，谁尸其任？
专委之人，云何可得？
是故古人云： 专听生奸，独任成乱。
犹二世之委赵高，元后之付王莽。
呼鹿为马，卒有阎乐望夷之祸，王莽亦终移汉鼎。
卿云 吹毛求疵 ，复是何人所吹之疵？ 擘肌分理 ，复是何人乎？
事及 深刻  绳逐 ，并复是谁？
又云 治、署、邸、肆 ，何者宜除？
何者宜省？ 国容戎备 ，何者宜省？
何者未须？ 四方屯传 ，何者无益？何者妨民？
何处兴造而是役民？
何处费财而是非急？
若为 讨召 ？
若为 征赋 ？
朝廷从来无有此事，静息之方复何者？
宜各出其事，具以奏闻。
卿云 若不及于时大息其民，事至方图，知无及也 。
如卿此言，即时便是大役其民，是何处所？
卿云 国弊民疲 ，诚如卿言，终须出其事，不得空作漫语。
夫能言之，必能行之。
富国强兵之术，急民省役之宜，号令远近之法，并宜具列。
若不具列，则是欺罔朝廷，空示颊舌。
凡人有为，先须内省，惟无瑕者，可以戮人。
卿不得历诋内外，而不极言其事。
伫闻重奏，当复省览，付之尚书，班下海内，庶乱羊永除，害马长息，惟新之美，复见今日。
translation: 
I get up in the middle of the night to take care of things. Depending on the number of things I have to do, if I have a few things I can finish them before noon, if I have a lot of things I can finish them before the sun is in the west.
Often eat one meal a day, day or night, at no fixed time.
On days when you are sick and suffering, maybe take it twice.
In the past, my waist and abdomen were more than five feet wide, but today I have slimmed down to more than two feet. The old belt is still preserved, which is not nonsense.
For whom?
It is for the sake of saving all things.
"The Book" says: Only with siblings can one become a human being, and with good ministers can one become a holy master.
If I have some arms and legs toward the sun, I can be the master of the game.
Today, I still cannot help but succumb to the rank of a ninth-rank official. Doing things without orders is just a lie.
Qing is still resentful and dissatisfied, so he doesn't know how to answer.
Qing also said that there is no one in Baisi who does not refuse to go up and adopt unfair means to seek advancement.
Who is this person?
What is fraud again?
Now we don’t ask outsiders to report things to the higher authorities. Is this logically okay?
If no one neglects his official position, can the official position be abolished?
If official positions are abolished, people will cause chaos. If people cause chaos, can the country be peaceful?
Losing food due to choking is what we are talking about.
If the petition is cut off, who will bear the responsibility?
How can we find people who can be specially appointed?
Therefore, the ancients said: If you listen to one person's opinion alone, evil things will happen; if you only trust one person, it will cause chaos.
This is like Tai II appointing Gao Gao, and Empress Yuan giving power to Wang Mang.
Calling the deer a horse, the calamity of Jian Le killing the second generation in Wangyi Palace finally occurred, and Wang Mang finally seized power in the Western Han Dynasty.
Qing said, "Fault-finding, who is it?" Precise analysis, who is he?
When things get serious, who is the person who accuses others of their faults and excommunicates them?
He also said that among the administration, office, residence and premises, which one should be removed?
Which position should be omitted? Which item should be omitted from the national capacity and military preparation?
Which item is not needed? Among the Sifangtun rumors, which one is useless and which one harms the people?
Where is Xingzao built to serve the people?
Where to spend money instead of what is urgently needed?
Why be called?
What is levy for?
There has never been anything like this in the imperial court, so what is the way to rest quietly?
Examples should be given for each incident and a report should be prepared.
Qing said, "If we don't take this opportunity to take good care of our people, we will not make plans until something happens, and it will be too late when we know it."
Just like what you said, now is a big battle for the people. Where is it?
You said that our country is exhausted and its people are tired. As you said, you must give examples after all, and you must not say nonsense out of thin air.
If you can talk about it, you can definitely put it into practice.
Strategies for enriching the country and strengthening its army, rescuing the people in emergencies and reducing labor, and methods for commanding both near and far should be laid out in detail.
If you don't display it, you will be deceiving the court and showing your eloquence in vain.
Anyone who wants to do something must first examine himself. Only those who have no faults or faults can blame others.
You must not slander officials inside and outside the court without telling the truth.
I look forward to hearing your memorial again, watching it again, paying it to the Minister of Finance, and promulgating it to the whole country, so that the disasters like random sheep will be eradicated forever, and the harmful things will be extinct forever. I hope that new beautiful policies will appear again today.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
琛奉敕，但谢过而已，不敢复有指斥。
久之，迁太府卿。
太清二年，迁云骑将军、中军宣城王长史。
侯景举兵袭京师，王移入台内，留琛与司马杨曒守东府。
贼寻攻陷城，放兵杀害，琛被枪未至死，贼求得之，轝至阙下，求见仆射王克、领军硃异，劝开城纳贼。
克等让之，涕泣而止，贼复轝送庄严寺疗治之。
明年，台城不守，琛逃归乡里。
其年冬，贼进寇会稽，复执琛送出都，以为金紫光禄大夫。
后遇疾卒，年六十九。
琛所撰《三礼讲疏》、《五经滞义》及诸仪法，凡百余篇。
子诩，太清初，自仪同西昌侯掾，出为巴山太守，在郡遇乱卒。
陈吏部尚书姚察云：夏侯胜有言曰： 士患不明经术；经术明，取青紫如拾地芥耳。
硃异、贺琛并起微贱，以经术逢时，致于贵显，符其言矣。
而异遂徼宠幸，任事居权，不能以道佐君，苟取容媚。
及延寇败国，实异之由。
祸难既彰，不明其罪，至于身死，宠赠犹殊。
罚既弗加，赏亦斯滥，失于劝沮，何以为国？
君子是以知太清之乱，能无及是乎。
translation: 
After receiving the order, He Chen could only admit his mistake and did not dare to criticize him again.
A long time later, he was moved to the post of Taifuqing.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was moved to the post of General Yunqi and Changshi of Xuancheng King of the Chinese Army.
Hou Jinggao's troops attacked the capital, and the king moved to Taiwan, leaving He Chen and Sima Yang Ao to guard the East Mansion.
The thieves soon captured the capital and allowed the soldiers to slaughter him. He Chen was shot but was still alive. The thieves found him and drove him to the palace in a car. They asked him to see Wang Ke, the servant, and Zhu Yi, the leader, and persuaded them to open the city gate and let the thieves in.
Wang Ke and others blamed him, but he stopped crying. The thief drove him to Zhuangyan Temple in a car for treatment of his wounds.
The next year, Taicheng fell and He Chen fled back to his hometown.
In the winter of that year, thieves invaded Kuaiji, arrested He Chen again, sent him out of the capital, and appointed him as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu.
He later became ill and died at the age of sixty-nine.
He Chen compiled more than 100 chapters in total such as "The Book of Rites", "The Five Classics' Zhiyi" and various rites and methods.
His son Xu Mian, in the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, served as the prefect of Bashan together with the Marquis of Xichang. He died in chaos in the county.
Yao Cha, the official secretary of the Chen Dynasty, said: Xia Housheng once said: The worry of a scholar is that he is not proficient in Confucian classics; if he is proficient in Confucian classics, he will be able to obtain high officials and titles as easily as picking up mustard greens on the ground.
Zhu Yi and He Chen were both from humble backgrounds. They relied on their knowledge of Confucian classics to gain eminence when they had the opportunity, which is in line with Xia Housheng's remarks.
However, after Zhu Yi received the emperor's favor and assumed power, he could not assist the emperor in the right way, but was aggressive and flattering.
It was Zhu Yi's responsibility to lead the enemy to defeat the country.
The disaster caused was obvious, but his guilt was not shown. After his death, he was still treated with special favors.
If there is no punishment for the guilty, and the rewards are so false and unrealistic, and there is no reason to persuade them to stop them, how can we govern the country?
Gentleman, the reason why you know about the troubles in the Taiqing period is that it has something to do with Zaodian.


