Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝宣皇帝五男。
许皇后生孝元帝，张婕妤生淮阳宪王钦，卫婕妤生楚孝王嚣，公孙婕妤生东平思王宇，戎婕妤生中山哀王竟。
淮阳宪王钦，元康三年立，母张婕妤有宠于宣帝。
霍皇后废后，上欲立张婕妤为后。
久之，惩艾霍氏欲害皇太子，乃更选后宫无子而谨慎者，乃立长陵王婕妤为后，令母养太子。
后无宠，希御见，唯张婕妤最幸。
而宪王壮大，好经书、法律，聪达有材，帝甚爱之。
太子宽仁，喜儒术，上数嗟叹宪王，辅曰： 真我子也！
常有意欲立张婕妤与宪王，然用太子起于微细，上少依倚许氏，及即位而许后以杀死，太子蚤失母，故弗忍也。
久之，上以故丞相韦贤子玄成阳狂让侯兄，经明行高，称于朝廷，乃召拜玄成为淮阳中尉，欲感谕宪王，辅以推让之臣，由是太子遂安。
宣帝崩，元帝即位，乃遣宪王之国。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoxuan had five sons.
Note that the empress gave birth to Emperor Xiaoyuan, the urgent maggot gave birth to King Xian of Huaiyang, Zhiyin, the envoy of Wei gave birth to King Xiaoxiao of Chu, Xingxiao, the nephew of Gongsun, Prince Shuhusi, King Liu, and the nephew of Rong, Prince Ai of Zhongshan, died.
Huaiyang Xianwang Liu Qin was established as king in the third year of Yuankang, and his mother Zhang Shidan was favored by Emperor Xuan.
After Queen Huo was deposed, the emperor wanted to make Zhang Tuzi his queen.
As time went by, I was wary of Huo's intention to harm the crown prince, so I changed my mind and chose someone who had no sons in the harem and was cautious. So I made Wang Jiantun, a native of Changling, the queen, and asked her to raise the crown prince like a mother.
The queen was not favored and rarely slept with or met the emperor. Only Zhang Jiantun was favored the most.
When King Xian of Huaiyang grew up, he liked scriptures and laws, was smart and talented, and Emperor Xuan liked him very much.
The prince was kind-hearted and fond of Confucianism. Emperor Xuan praised King Xian several times and said, "You are really my son!"
I often wanted to make Zhang Jianzi the queen and Prince Xian the prince. However, because the prince grew up in civilian life, Emperor Xuan relied on the Xu family when he was young, and Empress Xu had been killed when he came to the throne. The prince lost his mother when he was young, so he couldn't bear it.
After a long time, Emperor Xuan summoned and made Wei Xuan the lieutenant of Huaiyang Kingdom because Wei Xuancheng, the son of the former prime minister Wei Xian, pretended to be crazy and gave the marquis to his brother. He was praised by the court for his knowledge of Confucian classics and noble conduct.
When Emperor Xuan died and Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he ordered King Xian to go to the feudal country.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
时，张婕妤已卒，宪王有外祖母，舅张博兄弟三人岁至淮阳见亲，辄受王赐。
后王上书，请徙外家张氏于国。博上书，愿留守坟墓，独不徙。
王恨之。
后博至淮阳，王赐之少。
博言： 负责数百万，愿王为偿。
王不许，博辞去，令弟光恐云王遇大人益解，博欲上书为大人乞骸骨去。
王乃遣人持黄金五十斤送博。
博喜，还书谢，为谄语盛称誉王，因言： 当今朝廷无贤臣，灾变数见，足为寒心。
万姓咸归望于大王，大王奈何恬然不求入朝见，辅助主上乎？
使弟光数说王宜听博计，令于京师说用事贵人为王求朝。
许不纳其言。
后光欲至长安，辞王，复言 愿尽力与博共为王求朝。
王即日至长安，可因平阳侯。
光得王欲求朝语，驰使人语博。
博知王意动，复遗王书曰： 博幸得肺腑，数进愚策，未见省察。
北游燕、赵，欲循行郡国求幽隐之士，闻齐有驷先生者，善为《司马兵法》，大将之材也，博得谒见，承间进问五帝、三王究竟要道，卓尔非世俗之所知。
今边境不安，天下骚动，微此人其莫能安也。
又闻北海之濒有贤人焉，累世不可逮，然难致也。
translation: 
At this time, Zhang Biandan had passed away. King Xian had a maternal grandmother. His uncle Zhang Bo and his three brothers would be rewarded by King Xian if they went to Huaiyang to visit their mother every year.
Later, King Xian wrote a letter asking for the relocation of the Zhang family to Huaiyang. Zhang Bo wrote a letter saying he hoped to stay at his ancestral graves but refused to move.
King Xian resented him.
Later, when Zhang Bo went to Huaiyang, King Xian rewarded him less.
Zhang Bo said: The debt is several million. I hope King Xian will repay it for me.
King Xian refused. Zhang Bo left and sent his brother Zhang Guang to threaten King Xian, saying that he was even more lax in treating his grandmother. Zhang Bo wanted to write a letter to his mother asking for leave to go home.
King Xian sent someone to give Zhang Bo fifty pounds of gold.
Zhang Bo was happy and wrote back a letter of thanks. He praised King Xian very much with flattering words, and said: There are no good ministers in the court today, and disasters have occurred many times, which makes the court miserable. later.
The people all place their hopes on the king. Why does the king quietly do not ask to visit the court and assist the emperor?
His younger brother Zhang Guang persuaded King Xian several times to follow Zhang Bo's strategy. He himself went to the capital to lobby the powerful dignitaries to request an audience on King Xian's behalf.
King Xian did not adopt his opinion.
Later, Zhang Guang wanted to go to Chang'an. When he said goodbye to King Xian, he said that he would do his best to work with Zhang Bo to petition for the king's admission to the court.
The king is about to arrive in Chang'an and can rely on Marquis Pingyang.
When Zhang Guang heard that King Xian wanted to request an audience, he sent Pegasus to tell Zhang Bo.
Zhang Bo knew about King Xian's change of mind and sent another letter to King Xian, saying: "Zhang Bo is fortunate to be the king's confidant. He has made stupid suggestions several times, but they have not attracted your attention."
I traveled north to Yanzhao and other places, and wanted to visit the reclusive scholars in various places. I heard that there was a Mr. Si in Qi who was familiar with "Sima's Art of War" and was a talented general. Zhang Bo once paid a visit to him and took the opportunity to go and inquire about the ruling principles of the Five Emperors and Three Kings. His words were brilliant and could not be understood by ordinary people.
Now the border is unstable and the world is in turmoil. Unless this person, no one else can bring peace to the world.
I also heard that there is a wise man next to Beihai. He is a rare talent that can only be found in several lifetimes, but it is difficult to attract him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
得此二人而荐之，功亦不细矣。
博愿驰西以此赴助汉急，无财币以通显之。
赵王使谒者持牛、酒，黄金三十斤劳博，博不受；复使人愿尚女，聘金二百斤，博未许。
会得光书云大王已遣光西，与博并力求朝。
博自以弃捐，不意大王还意反义，结以朱颜，愿杀身报德。
朝事何足言！
大王诚赐咳唾，使得尽死，汤、禹所以成大功也。
驷先生蓄积道术，书无不有，愿知大王所好，请得辄上。
王得书喜说，报博书曰： 子高乃幸左顾存恤，发心恻隐，显至诚，纳以嘉谋，语以至事，虽亦不敏，敢不谕意！
今遣有司为子高偿责二百万。
是时，博女婿京房以明《易》阴阳得幸于上，数召见言事。
自谓为石显、五鹿充宗所排，谋不得用，数为博道之。
博常欲诳耀淮阳王，即具记房诸所说灾异及召见密语，持予淮阳王以为信验，诈言： 已见中书令石君求朝，许以金五百斤。
贤圣制事，盖虑功而不计费。
translation: 
Acquiring these two talents and recommending them to the court would be a great achievement.
I am willing to rush west to Chang'an to recommend these two people to help the Han Dynasty in crisis, but I don't have the money to reach the dignitaries.
The king sent an audience to reward me with oxen, wine, and thirty pounds of gold, but I refused. He also sent someone to ask for my daughter's hand in marriage, offering a bride price of two hundred pounds, but I did not agree.
I happened to receive a letter from Zhang Guang saying that the king had sent him west to Chang'an, and he and I would try our best to request an audience.
I thought that the king had given up on this matter, but I didn't expect that the king would change his mind and befriend me kindly. I am willing to repay your kindness with my life.
What's the matter with the court meeting?
If your Majesty gives me some money and allows me to work hard, this is the reason why Tang Yu achieved great achievements.
Mr. Si has a profound knowledge of Taoism and has a wide range of books. He hopes to know the king's hobbies and can present them in time.
King Xian was very happy to receive the letter and wrote back to Zhang Bo: Fortunately, Zigao, you condescended to be considerate, and the compassion from your heart showed extremely high sincerity, offered good strategies, and told me the most important thing. Although I am not smart, how dare I not understand your thoughts!
Now send a company to repay your debt of two million.
At this time, Jingfang, Zhang Bo's son-in-law, died because of Mingxiao's "Yi Yi". "Yin Yang" won the emperor's favor and summoned him several times to discuss state affairs.
He thought he was ostracized by Shi Xian and Wulu Chongzong, and his plan was not adopted. He told Zhang Bo these things many times.
Zhang Bo often wanted to deceive the King of Huaiyang and show off to him, so he recorded all the disasters reported by the capital and the secret words the emperor said when he summoned him, and gave them to the King of Huaiyang as evidence. He lied to him that he had seen Zhongshu Ling Shijun requesting an audience and promised him five hundred catties of gold.
A wise man only considers merit and does not care about the cost.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昔禹治鸿水，百姓罢劳，成功既立，万世赖之。
今闻陛下春秋未满四十，发齿堕落，太子幼弱，佞人用事，阴阳不调，百姓疾疫饥馑死者且半，鸿水之害殆不过此。
大王绪欲救世，将比功德，何可以忽？
博已与大儒知道者为大王为便宜奏，陈安危，指灾异，大王朝见，先口陈其意而后奏之，上必大说。
事成功立，大王即有周、邵之名，邪臣散亡，公卿变节，功德亡比，而梁、赵之宠必归大王，外家亦将富贵，何复望大王之金钱？
王喜说，报博书曰： 乃者诏下，止诸侯朝者，寡人憯然不知所出。
子高素有颜、冉之资，臧武之智，子贡之辩，卞庄子之勇，兼此四者，世之所鲜。
既开端绪，愿卒成之。
求朝，义事也，奈何行金钱乎！
translation: 
Although Dayu made the people exhausted when he controlled the floods, his success benefited the people for generations to come.
Now it is said that the emperor is less than forty, his hair and teeth have fallen out, the prince is young, the sycophants are dictatorial, and the yin and yang are not balanced. Nearly half of the people died due to disease, epidemics, and famine, and the harm of floods was no more than this.
Your Majesty is preparing to save the world and will compare his merits with those of the ancient holy kings. How can you slack off?
I have already made a memorial to the king with a learned and enlightened scholar, stating the way to protect the country and pointing out the dangers of disasters. When the king meets, he will first explain the general idea and then give a memorial. The emperor will definitely be very happy.
When things are successful and achievements are established, the king will have the reputation of Zhou Gong and Shao Gong. The treacherous ministers will flee in all directions. The ministers will change their moral integrity and their merits will be unparalleled. The emperor's favor for Liang Wang and Zhao Wang will definitely be transferred to the king. We foreigners will also be rich. How can we count on the king's money?
King Xian was happy and wrote back to Zhang Bo: "In the past, edicts were issued prohibiting princes from attending court. I feel so sad that I don't know what strategy to use."
Zi Gao, you have always had the talent of Yan Yuan and Ran You, the intelligence of Zang Wu Zi, the eloquence of Zigong, and the bravery of Bian Zhuang Zi. You have the best of all four, which is rare in the world.
It's been started, and I hope it will finally come to fruition.
Asking for an audience is a reasonable thing, but how to use money?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
博报曰： 已许石君，须以成事。
王以金五百斤予博。
会房出为郡守，离左右，显具有此事告之。
房漏泄省中语，博兄弟诖误诸侯王，诽谤政治，狡猾不道，皆下狱。
有司奏请逮捕钦，上不忍致法，遣谏大夫王骏赐钦玺书曰： 皇帝问淮阳王。
有司奏王，王舅张博数遗王书，非毁政治，谤讪天子，褒举诸侯，称引周、汤，以谄惑王，所言尤恶，悖逆无道。
王不举奏而多与金钱，报以好言，罪至不赦，朕恻焉不忍闻，为王伤之。
推原厥本，不祥自博，惟王之心，匪同于凶。
已诏有司勿治王事，遣谏大夫骏申谕朕意。
《诗》不云乎？ 靖恭尔位，正直是与。
王其勉之！ 骏谕指曰： 礼为诸侯制相朝聘之义，盖以考礼一德，尊事天子也。
且王不学《诗》乎？
《诗》云： 俾侯于鲁，为周室辅。 今王舅博数遗王书，所言悖逆。
translation: 
Zhang Bo wrote back and said: I have promised Shi Jun that I need to use it to accomplish this.
King Xian gave Zhang Bo five hundred catties of gold.
It happened that Jingfang left the capital to serve as county governor and left the emperor's side. Shi Xian knew the whole situation and reported it.
The conversation in the imperial palace was leaked by the Jingfang, and the Zhang Bo brothers misled the princes and kings, slandered the government, and acted cunningly, so they were all arrested.
Relevant departments submitted a petition to arrest Liu Qin, but the emperor could not bear to bring him to justice, so he sent Wang Jun, an admonishing doctor, to reward Liu Qin with a seal and a letter saying: The emperor told the King of Huaiyang.
Relevant departments have accused you. Your uncle Zhang Bo has written to you many times, slandering the state affairs, ridiculing the emperor, praising and recommending princes, and citing the conquests of Zhou Gong and Shang Tang to confuse you. What he said is particularly bad and disobedient.
You didn't report him, but you often gave him money and kind words in return. Your sin has reached a point where it cannot be forgiven. I can't bear to hear this, and I feel sad for you.
Looking at the origin, the bad things come from Zhang Bo. Your intentions are different from those of evil people.
I have ordered you not to punish you, but I have sent Wang Jun to remonstrate with you to explain my intention.
Doesn’t the Book of Songs say it? Be loyal to your position and behave with integrity. You have to encourage me!
Wang Jun pointed out the king of Huaiyang and said: Etiquette is a ritual for the princes to make a joint pilgrimage to pay homage to the betrothal gift. Therefore, they should fulfill the etiquette with one heart and one mind and serve the emperor with respect.
Besides, didn’t Wang study the Book of Songs?
"The Book of Songs" says: He was made a prince in the state of Lu and a vassal of the royal family of Zhou. Now Wang uncle Zhang Bo has written to you many times, and what he said is contrary to the holy way.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
王幸受诏策，通经术，知诸侯名誉不当出竟。
天子普覆，德布于朝，而恬有博言，多予金钱，与相报应，不忠莫大焉。
故事，诸侯王获罪京师，罪恶轻重，纵不伏诛，必蒙迁削贬黜之罪，未有但已者也。
今圣主赦王之罪，又怜王失计忘本，为博所惑，加赐玺书，使谏大夫申谕至意，殷勤之恩，岂有量哉！
博等所犯恶大，群下之所共攻，王法之所不赦也。
自今以来，王毋复以博等累心，务与众弃之。
《春秋》之义，大能变改。
《易》曰 借用白茅，无咎 ，言臣子之道，改过自新，洁己以承上，然后免于咎也。
王其留意慎戒，惟思所以悔过易行，塞重责，称厚恩者。
如此，则长有富贵，社稷安矣。
translation: 
Fortunately, you are bound by the edict, understand the classics, and know that your status as a prince should not leave the country.
The emperor's kindness spreads to everyone in the court, but you calmly accept Zhang Bo's words, often give him money, and respond to each other. There is no greater sin of disloyalty than this.
As always, if a prince commits a crime in the capital, no matter how serious it is, even if he is not killed, he will definitely be punished by exile, removal from office, demotion, dethronation, etc., and there will be no one who will not be held accountable.
Now the sage monarch pardons your crimes, but also takes pity on you for going astray and forgetting your duty, being deceived by Zhang Bo. He gives you a seal and a letter, and sends an admonishment official to explain your intention. How can we estimate the great kindness of the emperor!
The crime committed by Zhang Bo and others was serious, and the officials attacked him together, which cannot be forgiven by the king's law.
From now on, you should no longer worry about Zhang Bo and others, and you must abandon him together with everyone else.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that the most important thing is to be able to change one's past.
"The Book of Changes" says that if you use Imperata for sacrifices, you will not encounter any mistakes. It means that the ministers must correct their mistakes and purify themselves to assist the emperor, and then they can avoid mistakes.
You should be careful and vigilant, consider how to repent and change your behavior, make up for the heavy responsibility, and express the emperor's great kindness.
In this way, you will enjoy long-lasting wealth and honor, and the country will be stable.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
于是淮阳王钦免冠稽首谢曰： 奉藩无状，过恶暴列，陛下不忍致法，加大恩，遣使者申谕道术守藩之义。
伏念博罪恶尤深，当伏重诛。
臣钦愿悉心自新，奉承诏策。
顿首死罪。
京房及博兄弟三人皆弃市，妻子徙边。
至成帝即位，以淮阳王属为叔父，敬宠之，异于它国。
王上书自陈舅张博时事，颇为石显等所侵，因为博家属徙者求还。
丞相、御史复劾钦： 前与博相遗私书，指意非诸侯王所宜，蒙恩勿治，事在赦前。
不悔过而复称引，自以为直，失藩臣礼，不敬。
上加恩，许王还徙者。
三十六年薨。
子文王玄嗣，二十六年薨。
子縯嗣，王莽时绝。
translation: 
At that time, King Liu Qin of Huaiyang took off his hat, kowtowed and apologized, saying: I failed to fulfill my duties as a king of princes, and my crime was so obvious that your Majesty could not bear to punish the crime according to law, so he showed great kindness and sent envoys to explain the truth and fulfill the duties of princes.
Considering that Zhang Bo's crime is particularly serious, he should be sentenced to death.
The minister Liu Qin is willing to reform himself wholeheartedly and accept the edict respectfully.
I should deserve to die.
The three brothers Jingfang and Zhang Bo were all exiled from the city, and their wives and children were exiled to the border.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, because King Huaiyang was his uncle as a relative, he was respected by Emperor Cheng, far above other princes and kings.
The King of Huaiyang wrote a letter stating that his uncle Zhang Bo was being bullied by Shi Xian and others, so he requested to return to his hometown for the exiled Zhang Bo's family.
The prime minister and the imperial censor impeached the King of Huaiyang again: He and Zhang Bo had communicated privately with each other in the past, and their intentions were not what a prince should have. Thanks to the emperor's grace, he was not punished. The matter happened before the pardon.
Instead of repenting, he quoted past events and thought he was upright, which was unbecoming of a prince and committed the crime of disrespect.
However, the emperor granted King Huaiyang's request and promised King Xian to move the exiles back.
King Xian died in his thirty-sixth year.
His son King Wen Liu Xuan succeeded to the throne and died after reigning for twenty-six years.
His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne, but was cut off by Wang Mang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
楚孝王嚣，甘露二年立为定陶王，三年徙楚，成帝河平中入朝，时被疾，天子闵之，下诏曰： 盖闻 天地之性人为贵，人之行莫大于孝 。楚王嚣素行孝顺仁慈，之国以来二十余年，孅介之过未尝闻，朕甚嘉之。
今乃遭命，离于恶疾，夫子所痛，曰： 蔑之，命矣夫！斯人也而有斯疾也！
朕甚闵焉。
夫行纯茂而不显异，则有国者将何勖哉？
《书》不云乎？ 用德章厥善。 今王朝正月，诏与子男一人俱，其以广戚县户四千三百封其子勋为广戚侯。
明年，嚣薨。
子怀王文嗣，一年薨，无子，绝。
明年，成帝复立文弟平陆侯衍，是为思王。
二十一年薨，子纡嗣，王莽时绝。
初，成帝时又立纡弟景为定陶王。
广戚侯勋薨，谥曰炀侯，子显嗣。
平帝崩，无子，王莽立显子婴为孺子，奉平帝后。
莽篡位，以婴为定安公。
汉既诛莽，更始时婴在长安，平陵方望等颇知天文，以为更始必败，婴本统当立者也，共起兵将婴至临泾，立为天子。
更始遣丞相李松击破杀婴云。
东平思王宇，甘露二年立。
元帝即位，就国。
壮大，通奸犯法，上以至亲贳弗罪，傅相连坐。
translation: 
Liu Xiao, King Xiao of Chu, was established as King Dingtao in the second year of Ganlu's reign, and was granted the title of King of Chu three years later. Emperor Cheng entered the dynasty during the Heping period. He was ill at that time. The emperor took pity on him and issued an edict: It is said that human beings are the most noble of life in the world, and filial piety is the most important thing in human behavior. King Liu Xiao of Chu has always been filial and kind. In the more than 20 years since he became a feudal country, he has not heard of any minor mistakes. I admire him very much.
Now he is suffering from bad luck and is seriously ill. The Master deplored it and said: What a sad fate! Can such a person suffer from such a disease?
I feel sorry for him.
He is kind and noble without appearing to be different from the public. How will the princes be encouraged?
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Rewards are given to virtuous people in recognition of their kindness. Now is the first month of the dynasty. King Xiao is ordered to come to court with one of his sons, and his son Liu Xun is named the Marquis of Guangqi with a settlement of 4,300 households in Guangqi County.
The next year, Liu Xiao died.
His son Liu Wen, King Huai, succeeded to the throne and died a year later. He had no sons and was cut off.
In the second year, Emperor Cheng appointed Liu Wen's younger brother Liu Yan, Marquis of Lu, as King Si.
He died in the 21st year of his reign, and his son Liu Yu succeeded to the throne, which was cut off by Wang Mang.
At the beginning, when he became emperor, Liu Jing, Liu Yu's younger brother, was appointed King of Dingtao.
When Liu Xun, Marquis of Guangqi, died, Mi was named Yanghou, and his son Liu Xian succeeded him.
Emperor Ping died without a son, so Wang Mang made Liu Xian's son Liu Ying his son, who succeeded Emperor Ping.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and made Liu Ying the Duke of Ding'an.
After Wang Mang was executed by the Han Dynasty, Liu Ying was in Chang'an during the Gengshi period. Fang Wang and others from Pingling knew the astronomical phenomena very well and believed that the Gengshi Emperor would definitely fail. Liu Ying was the one who should be established as emperor according to the imperial tradition. Together they sent troops to take Liu Ying to Linjing and established him as the emperor.
Emperor Gengshi sent Prime Minister Li Song to defeat them and kill Liu Ying.
Liu Zi, the king of Dongping, was established as king in the second year of Ganlu.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and went to the feudal state.
When he grew up, he committed a crime for colluding with bad people. The emperor refused to punish him because he was the closest relative. His master was in line with the country.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
久之，事太后，内不相得，太后上书言之，求守杜陵园。
上于是遣太中大夫张子蟜奉玺书敕谕之，曰： 皇帝问东平王。
盖闻亲亲之恩莫重于孝，尊尊之义莫大于忠，故诸侯在位不骄以致孝道，制节谨度以冀天子，然后富贵不离于身，而社稷可保。
今闻王自修有阙，本朝不和，流言纷纷，谤自内兴，朕甚僣焉，为王惧之。
《诗》不云乎？ 毋念尔祖，述修厥德，永言配命，自求多福 。
朕惟王之春秋方刚，忽于道德，意有所移，忠言未纳，故临遣太中大夫子蟜谕王朕意。
孔子曰： 过而不改，是谓过矣。 王其深惟孰思之，无违朕意。
又特以玺书赐王太后，曰： 皇帝使诸吏宦者令承问东平王太后。
朕有闻，王太后少加意焉。
夫福善之门莫美于和睦，患咎之首莫大于内离。
translation: 
After some time, King Si served the Queen Mother, which was not in line with the Queen Mother's wishes. The Queen Mother wrote about this and asked to guard Du Mausoleum.
The emperor then sent Zhang Zijiao, the Taizhong doctor, to receive the seal order and inform him, saying: The emperor told King Shuping.
It is said that the kindness of close relatives is not more important than filial piety, and the principle of respecting noble people is not greater than loyalty. Therefore, when the princes are in power, they should not be proud to fulfill their filial piety, and be temperate and prudent to assist the emperor. In this way, they can maintain wealth and national stability forever.
Now I hear that you have a lack of self-cultivation, there is disharmony within the feudal country, rumors have appeared one after another, and slander has arisen from within. I feel sorry for you and I am afraid for you.
Doesn’t the Book of Songs say it? Miss your ancestors, cultivate your own morality, always follow the destiny, and pray for blessings.
I know that when you were in the prime of your life, you neglected your morality, your mind was deviated, and you did not take good advice, so I personally sent Zijiao, the Taizhong doctor, to convey my wishes to you.
Confucius said: If you fail to correct your mistakes, this is a fault. You should think carefully and do not go against my will.
He also specially gave it to the Queen Mother with a seal, saying: The emperor sent officials and eunuchs to report this to the Queen Mother of Dongping.
I heard something and the Queen Mother paid a little attention to it.
There is no greater happiness in a happy family than harmony, and there is no greater source of disaster than internal division.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今东平王出襁褓之中而托于南面之位，以年齿方刚，涉学日寡，骜忽臣下，不自它于太后，以是之间，能无失礼义者，其唯圣人乎！
传曰： 父为子隐，直在其中矣。 王太后明察此意，不可不详。
闺门之内，母子之间，同气异息，骨肉之恩，岂可忽哉！
岂可忽哉！
昔周公戒伯禽曰： 故旧无大故，则不可弃也，毋求备于一人。
夫以故旧之恩，犹忍小恶，而况此乎！
已遣使者谕王，王既悔过服罪，太后宽忍以贳之，后宜不敢。
王太后强餐，止思念，慎疾自爱。
字惭俱，因使者顿首谢死罪，愿洒心自改。
诏书又敕傅相曰： 夫人之性皆有五常，及其少长，耳目牵于耆欲，故五常销而邪心作，情乱其性，利胜其义，而不失厥家者，未之有也。
今王富于春秋，气力勇武，获师傅之教浅，加以少所闻见，自今以来，非《五经》之正术，敢以游猎非礼道王者，辄以名闻。
translation: 
King Dongping was raised by you, and therefore he is on the throne. He is still young and full of energy, and has little time to study. He despises his ministers, and his relationship with you, the Queen Mother, is different from others. Under such circumstances, the only person who can do it without disrespecting etiquette is a saint!
Legend: When a father conceals something for his son, integrity lies in it. The Queen Mother clearly understands this meaning and must be careful.
Within a family, between mother and child, they are connected by blood but have different voices. How can the kindness of flesh and blood be ignored?
Can it be ignored?
Once upon a time, Zhou Gong warned Bo Qin: "You can't abandon an old friend if he's not making any serious mistakes. Don't seek perfection from a person."
Because it is an old friend's kindness, I still tolerate his small shortcomings, not to mention such a flesh-and-blood relationship!
I have sent a messenger to tell King Si that he has repented and confessed his crime. Queen Mother, please be lenient and tolerant to ease this matter. He should not dare to do so in the future.
Queen Mother, please try your best to eat, stop worrying, treat illness carefully, and take care of yourself.
Liu Yu was ashamed and frightened. He kowtowed in front of the messenger and apologized, willing to change his mind and make amends on his own.
The edict also ordered Si Wang's master and the state minister to say: Human nature has five qualities: benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith. When he grows up, what he hears and sees is related to his hobbies and desires. Therefore, after the five permanent things disappear, evil thoughts arise, lust disturbs his nature, and profit overcomes his moral heart. There is no one who does not lose his home.
King Si is now in the prime of life, strong and mighty, but he has received little instruction from his master, and has little knowledge. From now on, if he dares to tell King Si about anything other than serious knowledge of the Five Classics, such as outings and hunting, etc., his name will be reported immediately.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
宇立二十年，元帝崩。
宇谓中谒者信等曰： 汉大臣议天子少弱，未能治天下，以为我知文法，建欲使我辅佐天子。
我见尚书晨夜极苦，使我为之，不能也。
今暑热，县官年少，持服恐无处所，我危得之！
比至下，宇凡三哭，饮酒食肉，妻妾不离侧。
又姬朐臑故亲幸，后疏远，数叹息呼天。
宇闻，斥朐臑为家人子，扫除永巷，数笞击之。
朐臑私疏宇过失，数令家告之。
宇觉知，绞杀朐臑。
有司奏请逮捕，有诏削樊、亢父二县。
后三岁，天子诏有司曰： 盖闻仁以亲亲，古之道也。
前东平王有阙，有司请废，朕不忍。
又请削，朕不敢专。惟王之至亲，未尝忘于心。
translation: 
Liu Yu reigned for twenty years, and Emperor Yuan died.
Liu Yu told Xin and others in the palace: The ministers of the Han Dynasty commented that the emperor was young and could not govern the world. They thought that I knew the system and laws, and suggested that I assist the emperor.
I saw the minister working hard at night. If I were to do this job, I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to do it.
The weather is hot now and the emperor is young. I am afraid there will be no place to observe filial piety. I almost got the throne!
When Emperor Yuan was buried, Liu Yu cried three times in total, drank wine and ate meat, and never left his wife and concubines.
The concubine Qucuo was originally favored by him, but later became estranged from him. She often sighed and called to heaven.
When Liu Yu heard about this, he deposed Qu Teng as a palace maid with no status, asked her to clean the palace streets, and often whipped her.
Qu Suo secretly wrote down Liu Yu's faults in separate notes, and asked his family to report him several times.
When Liu Zi found out, he hanged Qu Chang.
Relevant departments petitioned to arrest Liu Yu, and the emperor issued an edict to cut off Fan and Kangfu counties.
Three years later, the emperor ordered Yousi to say: It is said that benevolent government is to be close to one's relatives. This is an ancient truth.
In the past, King Dongping made mistakes and the relevant departments asked him to be deposed. I couldn't bear it.
I also asked for the reduction of the feudal state. I dare not be arbitrary, because he is the closest relative and has never been forgotten.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今闻王改行自新，尊修经术，亲近仁人，非法之求，不以奸吏，朕甚嘉焉。
传不云乎？
朝过夕改，君子与之。
其复前所削县如故。
后年来朝，上疏求诸子及《太史公书》，上以问大将军王凤，对曰： 臣闻诸侯朝聘，考文章，正法度，非礼不言。
今东平王幸得来朝，不思制节谨度，以防危失，而求诸书，非朝聘之义也。
诸子书或反经术，非圣人；或明鬼神，信物怪；《太史公书》有战国纵横权谲之谋，汉兴之初谋臣奇策，天官灾异，地形厄塞：皆不宜在诸侯王。
不可予。
不许之辞宜曰： 《五经》圣人所制，万事靡不毕载。
王审乐道，傅相皆儒者，旦夕讲诵，足以正身虞意。
夫小辩破义，小道不通，致远恐泥，皆不足以留意。
诸益于经术者，不爱于王。
translation: 
Now I am pleased to hear that he has repented, respects the art of practicing scriptures, is close to benevolent people, and does not ask for illegal requests from officials.
Didn’t the legend say that?
If you change it day by day, a gentleman will praise it.
Restore the closed counties that were removed before.
In the court meeting the following year, Shangshu asked for the books of the Confucius and the "Historical Records". The emperor asked the general Wang Feng about this matter, and replied: I heard that the princes went to court to recruit people, study articles, and correct laws and regulations. I did not mention anything that was not in line with etiquette.
Now that King Dongping has the honor to come to the court, he does not consider restraint and prudence to prevent mistakes, but asks for books, which is not the principle of court employment.
Some of the books of the philosophers are against the classics and slanderous saints, some record ghosts and gods, and believe in strange objects and strange phenomena; the "Historical Records" contains the treacherous strategies of the powerful forces in the Warring States Period, the strange strategies of the counselors when the Han Dynasty just emerged, catastrophic changes in the sky, and dangerous terrain: none of them are suitable for princes and kings.
Can't give it to him.
The excuse for disagreeing should be: The Five Classics were produced by sages, and everything is recorded.
The king is indeed willing to follow the right path. His masters and ministers are all Confucian scholars. He teaches and recites morning and evening, which is enough to correct his behavior and cheer his mood.
Small tricks undermine great righteousness, small principles are not understood, and may affect the long-term cause, so it is not enough to pay attention to them.
Those who are beneficial to the scriptures will show no mercy to the king.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
对奏，天子如凤言，遂不与。
立三十三年薨，子炀王云嗣。
哀帝时，无盐危山土自起覆草，如驰道状，又瓠山石转立。
云及后谒自之石所祭，治石象瓠山立石，束倍草，并祠之。
建平三年，息夫躬、孙宠等共因幸臣董贤告之。
是时，哀帝被疾，多所恶，事下有司，逮王、后谒下狱验治，言使巫傅恭、婢合欢等祠祭诅祝上，为云求为天子。
云又与知灾异者高尚等指星宿，言上疾必不愈，云当得天下。
石立，宣帝起之表也。
有司请诛王，有诏废徙房陵。
云自杀，谒弃市。
立十七年，国除。
元始元年，王莽欲反哀帝政，白太皇太后，立云太子开明为东平王，又立思王孙成都为中山王。
translation: 
What was said was reported to the emperor, and the emperor obeyed Wang Feng's words and refused to give it to King Si.
King Dongping Si died in the thirty-third year of his reign, and his son Yang King Liu Yun succeeded him.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, the ground of Wuyanwei Mountain swelled up on its own and was covered with grass, resembling the shape of a galloping road, and stood up on the side of the stone of Hushan Mountain.
Liu Yun and Queen Ye personally went to the stone to offer sacrifices, carved a stone like the stone in Hushan, used Shubeicao as a god, and offered sacrifices together.
In the third year of Jianping, Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and others relied on the favored minister Dong Xian to report the matter.
At this time, Emperor Ai was ill and disgusted with many things. He handed the matter over to the relevant departments, arrested King Yang and Queen Ye, put them in prison for interrogation, and sent wizard Fu Gong, maid Hehuan and others to curse the emperor during sacrifices and pray for Liu Yun to become emperor.
Liu Yun and Gao Shang, who knew about the disaster, observed the stars and said that the emperor's illness would definitely not be cured, and Liu Yun should win the world.
The standing stone symbolizes the rise of Emperor Xuan.
Relevant departments requested that King Yang be killed, and the emperor issued an edict to depose him and move him to Fangling.
Liu Yun committed suicide and Ye was executed and abandoned in the market.
In the seventeenth year of his reign, the feudal state was eliminated.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang wanted to change Emperor Ai's approach, so he petitioned the Empress Dowager to appoint Liu Yun's prince Liu Kaiming as King of Dongping, and he also appointed Liu Chengdu, the grandson of King Si, as King of Zhongshan.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
开明立三年，薨，无子。
复立开明兄严乡侯信子匡为东平王，奉开明后。
王莽居摄，东郡太守翟义与严乡侯信谋举兵诛莽，立信为天子。
兵败，皆为莽所灭。
中山哀王竟，初元二年立为清河王。三年，徙中山，以幼少未之国。
建昭四年，薨邸，葬杜陵，无子，绝。
太后归居外家戎氏。
孝元皇帝三男。
王皇后生孝成帝，傅昭仪生定陶共王康，冯昭仪生中山孝王兴。
定陶共王康，永光三年立为济阳王。
八年，徙为山阳王。
八年，徙定陶。
王少而爱，长多材艺，习知音声，上奇器之。
母昭仪又幸，几代皇后太子。
语在《元后》及《史丹传》。
成帝即位，缘先帝意，厚遇异于它王。
十九年薨，子欣嗣。
translation: 
Liu Kaiming reigned for three years and died without any sons.
He also established Xingkuang, the son of Liu Kaiming's elder brother Yanxiang Hou Liu Xin, as the king of Sechu, succeeding Liu Tilong.
Wang Ling assumed the position of regent, and Yizhan, the governor of Sejing, and Xingzhi of Leisubao planned to send troops to kill Yuling, and he was declared emperor.
The army was defeated and all were destroyed by Wang Ling.
Liu Tong, the Ai King of Zhongshan, was established as the King of Qinghe in the 52nd year of Niu. Three years later, he moved to Zhongshan, but he did not go to the feudal country because he was young.
In the fourth year of Jianzhao's reign, he died in his official residence and was buried in Duling. He had no sons and was cut off.
The Queen Mother went back to live in the Rong family of her relatives.
Emperor Xiaoyuan had three sons.
Queen Wang gave birth to Xiao Chengdi, Fu Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Kang, King of Dingtao, and Feng Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Xing, King of Zhongshan.
Liu Kang, the co-king of Dingtao, was established as King of Jiyang in the third year of Yongguang.
Eight years later, he moved to Shanyang King.
After another eight years, he moved to Dingtao.
King Dingtao Gong was loved by Emperor Yuan when he was young. When he grew up, he was versatile and familiar with music. The emperor valued him very much.
His mother Fu Zhaoyi was favored again and almost replaced the queen and crown prince.
The incident was recorded in "Emperor Yuan" and "Standard's Biography".
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he abided by the wishes of the late emperor and treated King Dingtao Gong differently from other kings.
He died in the 19th year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Xin.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十五年，成帝无子，征入为皇太子。
上以太子奉大宗后，不得顾私亲，乃立楚思王子景为定陶王，奉共王后。
成帝崩，太子即位，是为孝哀帝。
即位二年，追尊共王为共皇帝，置寝庙京师，序昭穆，仪如孝元帝。
徙定陶王景为信都王云。
中山孝王兴，建昭二年立为信都王。
十四年，徙中山。成帝之议立太子也，御史大夫孔光以为《尚书》有殷及王，兄终弟及，中山王元帝之子，宜为后。
成帝以中山王不材，又兄弟，不得相入庙。
外家王氏与赵昭仪皆欲用哀帝为太子，故遂立焉。
上乃封孝王舅冯参为宜乡侯，而益封孝王万户，以尉其意。
三十年，薨，子衎嗣。
七年，哀帝崩，无子，征中山王衎入即位，是为平帝。
太皇太后以帝为成帝后，故立东平思王孙桃乡顷侯子成都为中山王，奉孝王后。
王莽时绝。
赞曰：孝元之后，遍有天下，然而世绝于孙，岂非天哉！
淮阳宪王于时诸侯为聪察矣，张博诱之，几陷无道。
《诗》云 贪人败类 ，古今一也。
translation: 
Fifteen years after he ascended the throne, Emperor Cheng had no sons and was conscripted into the palace as the crown prince.
Because the prince wanted to serve as a great clan and could not only care about his private relatives, the emperor appointed Liu Jing, the son of King Chu Si, as King Dingtao to succeed King Gong.
When Emperor Cheng died and the crown prince ascended the throne, he was the Emperor Xiaoai.
Two years after he ascended the throne, he honored the King of Gong as the Emperor of Gong, placed his dormitory temple in the capital, and arranged the order of Zhao and Mu with the same etiquette as Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Tao Wangjing was changed to King Xindu.
Liu Xing, the Xiaowang of Zhongshan, was established as King of Xindu in the second year of Jianzhao.
Fourteen years later, he moved to the throne of Zhongshan. When Emperor Cheng was discussing the establishment of a crown prince, Kong Guang, the imperial censor, believed that "Shangshu" contained lessons from the demise of the Yin Dynasty and inherited the throne. When the elder brother died, the younger brother succeeded. King Zhongshan was the son of Emperor Yuan and should be the next emperor.
Emperor Cheng believed that King Zhongshan had no talent and they were brothers, so they could not enter the ancestral temple together.
Both Wang and Zhao Zhao wanted Emperor Ai to be the crown prince, so they made him the crown prince.
The emperor named Xiao Wang's uncle Feng Shen the Marquis of Yixiang, and also granted Xiao Wang Wanhu the title to express his comfort.
He reigned for thirty years and died. His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne.
After reigning for seven years, Emperor Ai died without a son, so he recruited Liu Shu, King of Zhongshan, to the palace and ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Ping.
The Empress Dowager believed that the emperor was a descendant of Emperor Cheng, so she established Liu Chengdu, the son of Taoxiang Qinghou, the grandson of King Shu Pingsi, as King of Zhongshan, succeeding King Xiao.
It was cut off when Wang Mang died.
Zan said: The descendants of Emperor Xiaoyuan are all over the world, but the heirs are cut off in the generation of his grandchildren. Isn't it God's will?
Huaiyang Xianyu was very smart among the princes at that time. He seduced him and almost fell into a state of immorality.
"The Book of Songs" says that greedy people are the black sheep, and this has been true in ancient and modern times.


