Chunk 0: 
original: 
隗嚣字季孟，天水成纪人也。
少仕州郡。
王莽国师刘歆引嚣为士。
歆死，嚣归乡里。
季父崔，素豪侠，能得众。
闻更始立而莽兵连败，于是乃与兄义及上邽人杨广、冀人周宗谋起兵应汉。
嚣止之曰： 夫兵，凶事也。
宗族何辜！ 崔不听，遂聚众数千人，攻平襄，杀莽镇戎大尹，崔、广等以为举事宜立主以一众心，咸谓嚣素有名，好经书，遂共推为上将军。
嚣辞让不得已，曰： 诸父众贤不量小子。必能用嚣言者，乃敢从命。 众皆曰 诺 。
嚣既立，遣使聘请平陵人方望，以为军师。
望至，说嚣曰： 足下欲承天顺民，辅汉而起，今立者乃在南阳，王莽尚据长安，虽欲以汉为名，其实无所受命，将何以见信于众乎？
宜急立高庙，称臣奉祠，所谓 神道设教 ，求助人神者也。
且礼有损益，质文无常。
translation: 
Kaixiao, courtesy name Jimeng, was from Chengji County, Tianshui County.
When he was young, he served as a state and county official.
Wang Mang's imperial advisor Liu Xin introduced Kai Xiao as his Yuanshi.
After Liu Xin died, Wei Xiao returned to his hometown.
His uncle, Kui Cui, had always been bold and chivalrous, and was supported by everyone.
When he heard that Gengshi was proclaimed emperor and that Wang Mang's troops were defeated, he planned to raise troops to respond to the Han army with his brother Wei Yi, Yang Guang from Shanggui, and Zhou Zong from Ji.
Wei Xiao stopped him and said: "Sending troops to fight is a dangerous thing!"
What sin does our clan have? Wei Cui refused to listen, so he gathered thousands of people to attack Pingxiang and killed Wang Mang's Zhenrong Dayin. Wei Cui, Yang Guang and others thought that if they wanted to take action, they should appoint a general to unify everyone's thoughts. They all said that Wei Xiao was well-known and loved scriptures, so they jointly recommended Wei Xiao as the general.
Wei Xiao resigned and had no choice but to say: "Fathers and wise men think highly of me, young man, and must use my opinion before I dare to obey." Everyone said: OK.
After Kuai Xiao was established, he sent an envoy to hire Fang Wang from Pingling as a military advisor.
Fang Wangzhi suggested to Kaixiao: "I want to obey the destiny of the people and support the Han Dynasty and start an uprising. Today, I am standing in Nanyang. Wang Mang is still guarding Chang'an. Although he wants to act in the name of the Han Dynasty, he has not actually received the order from the Han Dynasty. What will he do to convince everyone?"
We should quickly build a temple for Emperor Gaozu, worship him as a minister, and use the so-called "Shinto teachings" to seek help from humans and gods.
Moreover, etiquette may be added or deleted from time to time, and there is no standard between simplicity and splendor.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
削地开兆，茅茨土阶，以致其肃敬。
虽未备物，神明其舍诸。 嚣从其言，遂立庙邑东，祀高祖、太宗、世宗。
嚣等皆称臣执事，史奉璧而告。
祝毕，有司穿坎于庭，牵马操刀，奉盘错鍉，遂割牲而盟。
曰： 凡我同盟三十一将，十有六姓，允承天道，兴辅刘宗。
如怀奸虑，明神殛之。
高祖、文皇、武皇，俾坠厥命，厥宗受兵，族类灭亡。 有司奉血鍉进，护军举手揖诸将军曰： 鍉不濡血，歃不入口，是欺神明也，厥罚如盟。 既而薶血加书，一如古礼。
事毕，移檄告郡国曰：
汉复元年七月己酉朔。
己巳，上将军隗嚣、白虎将军隗崔、左将军隗义、右将军杨广、明威将军王遵、云旗将军周宗等，告州牧、部监、郡卒正、连率、大尹、尹、尉队大夫、属正、属令：故新都侯王莽，慢侮天地，悖道逆理。鸩杀孝平皇帝，篡夺其位。
矫托天命，伪作符书，欺惑众庶，震怒上帝。
反戾饰文，以为祥瑞。
戏弄神祇，歌颂祸殃。
楚、越之竹，不足以书其恶。
天下昭然，所共闻见。
今略举大端，以喻使民。
translation: 
Cutting the ground to open a sign area, even if it is a hut with earthen steps, can still show respect.
Although it is simple and has no material equipment, the gods will not leave here. Kuai Xiao listened to his advice and built a temple in the east of the city to worship Gaozu, Taizong and Shizong.
Wei Xiao and others all called themselves ministers and deacons, and Zhu Shi held a jade in his hand to appeal to the gods.
After the blessing, various functional officials came and went in the court, some leading horses and wielding swords, some carrying plates and spoons, so they killed animals and formed an alliance.
Alliance Dao: There are a total of thirty-one generals with 16 surnames in the alliance, who follow the way of heaven and raise troops to assist Liu Zong.
If there is someone with evil intentions, the gods will destroy him.
Emperor Gaozu, Emperor Wen, and Emperor Wu caused his death, the clan was bloodbathed, and the race was destroyed. The officials marched forward with spoons containing the blood of the sacrifices. The guards held up their hands and bowed to the generals, saying: "The spoons are not stained with blood. If you don't drink the blood, you will deceive the gods and punish him according to the oath of the alliance." In this way, the blood of the sacrifice was applied on the mouth and the covenant was carried out exactly according to the ancient rituals.
At the end of the ceremony, a document was issued to all counties saying:
The first day of the seventh month of the first year of the Han Dynasty is Jiyou Day.
On the past day, General Wei Xiao, White Tiger General Wei Cui, Left General Wei Yi, Right General Yang Guang, Mingwei General Wang Zun, Yunqi General Zhou Zong, etc., sent a proclamation to the state shepherds, department supervisors, county pawns, company leaders, Dayin, Yin, Wei team officials, subordinate Zheng, and subordinate orders: Wang Mang, the former lord of Xindu, insulted and neglected the world, violated the Tao, and violated the principles. He poisoned Emperor Xiaoping and usurped the throne.
Pretending to be destined by heaven, he forged talismans and falsely said that he should replace the Han Emperor, deceiving the people and angering heaven.
Being arrogant and violent is used to cover up the false text and serves as auspicious talismans.
They make fun of the gods with nonsense words and sing praises of disaster.
Although there are many bamboos in Chu and Yue, they are not enough to describe their crimes.
Everyone in the world heard and witnessed what he did.
Now I will briefly mention a few major aspects to explain to the officials and the people.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
盖天为父，地为母，祸福之应，各以事降。
莽明知之，而冥昧触冒，不顾大忌，诡乱天术，援引史传。
昔秦始皇毁坏谥法，以一二数欲至万世，而莽下三万六千岁之历，言身当尽此度。
循亡秦之轨，推无穷之数。
是其逆天之大罪也。
分裂郡国，断截地络。
田为王田，卖买不得。规锢山泽，夺民本业。
造起九庙，穷极土作。
发冢河东，攻劫丘垄。
此其逆地之大罪也。
尊任残贼，信用奸佞，诛戮忠正，复按口语，赤车奔驰，法冠晨夜，冤系无辜，妄族众庶。
行炮格之刑，除顺时之法，灌以醇醯，袭以五毒。
政令日变，官名月易，货币岁改，吏民昏乱，不知所从，商旅穷窘，号泣市道。
translation: 
Heaven is the father and the earth is the mother, and they use corresponding time to respond to misfortunes and blessings.
Wang Mang clearly knew the principle of telepathy between heaven and man, but he was stubborn and deliberately offended, regardless of taboos. Whenever there was a disaster, he quoted historical biographies to distort explanations and cover up his crimes.
In the past, Qin Shihuang destroyed the posthumous title system and called himself the First Emperor while he was still alive. From then on, it was passed down from generation to generation, hoping to proclaim himself emperor from generation to generation until eternity. Wang Mang followed in the footsteps of Qin Shihuang and promulgated a thirty-six thousand year calendar, claiming that the Wang regime would be passed down from generation to generation during these years.
Along the path of the Qin Dynasty's demise, endless calendars can be derived.
This is his grave sin.
Wang Mang divided the prefecture, cut off its boundaries, and renamed Tianxia Tian as Wang Tian.
Buying and selling is prohibited. It was stipulated that famous mountains and swamps should be imprisoned, taking away the people's livelihood of fishing and hunting.
The construction of nine temples was extremely wasteful and extravagant.
Dig up all the tombs in the east of the river and plunder the hills and ridges.
This is his grave sin against the earth.
Respecting crooks, trusting traitors, killing loyal and upright people, creating excuses, cars with red curtains galloping on the road, officials wearing ceremonial crowns arrest innocent people morning and night, and kill all the people's families at every turn.
Use the cruel incineration method to burn good people to death, abolish the laws and regulations that were in good time in the past, and use alcohol to break the five poisons.
Government orders change every day, official names remain the same every month, currency changes every year, officials and people make mistakes and don't know what to do, and merchants and travelers are poor and distressed, crying in the market streets.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
设为六管，增重赋敛，刻剥百姓，厚自奉养，苞苴流行，财入公辅，上下贪贿，莫相检考，民坐挟铜炭，没入钟官，徒隶殷积，数十万人，工匠饥死，长安皆臭。
既乱诸夏，狂心益悖，北攻强胡，南扰劲越，西侵羌戎，东摘濊貊。使四境之外，并入为害，缘边之郡，江海之濒，涤地无类。
故攻战之所败，苛法之所陷，饥馑之所夭，疾疫之所及，以万万计。
其死者则露尸不掩，生者则奔亡流散，幼孤妇女，流离系虏。
此其逆人之大罪也。是故上帝哀矜，降罚于莽，妻子颠殒，还自诛刈。
大臣反据，亡形已成。
大司马董忠、国师刘歆、卫将军王涉，皆结谋内溃，司命孔仁、纳言严尤、秩宗陈茂，举众外降。
今山东之兵二百余万，已平齐、楚，下蜀、汉，定宛、洛，据敖仓，守函谷，威命四布，宣风中岳。
translation: 
The law that established six administrations increased taxes, exploited the people, filled private pockets to enrich themselves, bribed public officials, and confiscated wealth to the three ministers and the assistant minister, and there was no inspection at all. The common people made money for their crimes, tied their necks with iron chains, and were enslaved by bell officials. Hundreds of thousands of prisoners and slaves gathered together. Craftsmen starved to death, and the stench of corpses could be smelled in Chang'an City.
It has messed up China, and its arrogance is even more arrogant. It attacks the Hu in the north, disturbs the Jinyue in the south, invades the Qiang and Rong in the west, and harasses the Qian in the east. The neighboring countries on all sides have merged into the border and become troubles. The counties and counties on the border, along the rivers and seas, have suffered misfortune and all the people have died.
Therefore, under Wang Mang’s tyrannical rule, there were tens of thousands of people killed and injured in wars, people framed under the brutal criminal laws, people who froze to death and starved to death, and diseases and plagues that killed tens of millions of people.
The corpses of the dead were thrown into the wild and could not be buried, the living fled and fled, and young orphans and women were displaced and plundered.
This is his grave sin against humanity. Therefore, God took pity on the people and punished Wang Mang. Several of his sons were killed by himself, and his wife was also angry to death.
The ministers rebelled against him, and the situation for his demise was already set.
Grand Sima Dong Zhong, Imperial Advisor Liu Xin, and General Wei Wang She all united to disintegrate from within; Si Ming Kong Ren, Nayan Yanyou, and Zhizong Chen Mao surrendered outside.
Today, there are more than two million soldiers in Shandong. They have pacified Qi, Chu, Xia Shu, and Han, and pacified Wan and Luo. They are based in Aocang, guarding Hanguan, and spreading their orders everywhere, proclaiming their reputation in Zhongyue.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
兴灭继绝，封定万国，遵高祖之旧制，修孝文之遗德。有不从命，武军平之。
驰命四夷，复其爵号。
然后还师振旅，橐弓卧鼓。
申命百姓，各安其所，庶无负子之责。
嚣乃勒兵十万，击杀雍州牧陈庆。
将攻安定。
安定大尹王向，莽从弟平阿侯谭之子也，威风独能行其邦内，属县皆无叛者。
嚣乃移书于向，喻以天命，反复诲示，终不从。
于是进兵虏之，以徇百姓，然后行戮，安定悉降。
而长安中亦起兵诛王莽。
嚣遂分遣诸将徇陇西、武都、金城、武威、张掖、酒泉、敦煌，皆下之。
更始二年，遣使征嚣及崔、义等。
嚣将行，方望以为更始未可知，固止之，嚣不听。
望以书辞谢而去，曰：
足下将建伊、吕之业，弘不世之功，而大事草创，英雄未集。
translation: 
Reviving the Han Dynasty to succeed Liu Si, enfeoffing all the kingdoms, following the old system of Emperor Gaozu, restoring the traditional virtues of Xiaowen, and quelling those who dare to disobey the order by force.
Send envoys to neighboring countries to restore their original titles.
Then he returned to reorganize his troops and put away the bows, arrows, and golden drums.
I specifically order the people to stay in their own place, live and work in peace and contentment, and they will live up to their responsibilities.
Wei Xiao then led an army of 100,000 to kill Chen Qing, the shepherd of Yongzhou.
Prepare to attack Anxi.
Wang Xiang, the Great Yin of Anding, was the son of Wang Mang's cousin Ping'ahou Wang Tan. He was quite popular in the Anding state, and no one in his county rebelled against him.
Wei Xiao then wrote to Wang Xiang, telling him the destiny of heaven, and repeatedly gave him instructions, but Wang Xiang never obeyed.
So they marched in, captured him, declared to the people, and then killed him, and all Anding surrendered.
At this time, someone in Chang'an City raised troops and killed Wang Mang.
Wei Xiao then sent his generals to seize Longxi, Wudu, Jincheng, Wuwei, Zhangye, Jiuquan, and Dunhuang, and captured them all.
In the second year of Gengshi, envoys were sent to recruit Wei Xiao, Wei Cui, Wei Yi and others.
Wei Xiao was about to meet with Gengshi. Fang Wang believed that Gengshi's future was still uncertain and resolutely stopped him, but Wei Xiao refused to listen.
Fang Wang wrote a letter of thanks and left, saying:
Generals like Yi Yin and Lu Shang will establish the achievements of the founding of the country and carry forward achievements that are not common in one generation. But now when major events are still being hastily established, heroes and heroes have not yet gathered together.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
以望异域之人，疵瑕未露，欲先崇郭隗，想望乐毅，故钦承大旨，顺风不让。
将军以至德尊贤，广其谋虑，动有功，发中权，基业已定，大勋方缉。
今俊乂并会，羽翮并肩，望无耆考之德，而猥托宾客之上，诚自愧也。
虽怀介然之节，欲絜去就之分，诚终不背其本，贰其志也。
何则？
范蠡收责句践，乘偏舟于五湖；舅犯谢罪文公，亦逡巡于河上。
夫以二子之贤，勒铭两国，犹削迹归愆，请命乞身，望之无劳，盖其宜也。
望闻乌氏有龙池之山，微径南通，与汉相属，其傍时有奇人，聊及闲暇，广求其真。
愿将军勉之。
嚣等遂至长安，更始以为右将军，崔、义皆即旧号。
其冬，崔、义谋欲叛归，嚣惧并祸，即以事告之，崔、义诛死。
更始感嚣忠，以为御史大夫。
translation: 
I am from a different county, and my faults have not yet been exposed. I originally wanted to follow Guo Wei's example in serving King Yan Zhao, so as to attract a great hero like Le Yi and join him under the general's command. Therefore, when you hired me, I came with the wind and did not refuse.
The general respects the talented with the highest virtue, widely adopts his plans, his actions are meritorious, and his troops can hit the key points. Now the foundation has been set, and the Prime Minister's great achievements are being achieved.
Nowadays, there are many talented people, and their wings are already full. I hope that I don’t have any virtue or talent above ordinary people. I am really ashamed to be ranked first among the guests.
Although I have a moral integrity and want to weigh the expediency of resigning and staying in my job, I will never abandon my original intention and have other ambitions.
Why?
After Fan Li helped Gou Jian destroy Wu, he accepted his guilt and took a boat to the five lakes. Jin Wengong's uncle's uncle also stopped on the river on the way back to the country with Wen Gong, apologized to Wen Gong and asked to resign.
With the virtues of Fan Li and Zifu, they have left their names in the history books of Yue and Jin. If they still blame themselves for requesting to return to their hometown, I hope that they have no merit, so it is very appropriate to resign.
I heard that there is Longchi Mountain in Wushi County, with a small road leading to the south, connecting it with the Han Dynasty. There are often strange people and strangers there. In your spare time, you can seek out the truth.
May the general encourage him.
Wei Xiao came to Chang'an, and he was appointed as the right general. Wei Cui and Wei Yi still maintained their original titles.
In the winter of that year, Wei Cui and Wei Yi planned to rebel against Gengshi and return to the north. Wei Xiao was afraid of harming himself, so he reported the matter to Gengshi, and Wei Cui and Wei Yi were killed.
Gengshi felt that Kui Xiao was loyal to him, so he made him the imperial censor.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
明年夏，赤眉入关，三辅扰乱。
流闻光武即位河北，嚣即说更始归政于光武叔父国三老良，更始不听。
诸将欲劫更始东归，嚣亦与通谋。
事发觉，更始使使者召嚣，嚣称疾不入，因会客王遵、周宗等勒兵自守。
更始使执金吾邓晔将兵围嚣，嚣闭门拒守；至昏时，遂溃围，与数十骑夜斩平城门关，亡归天水。
复招聚其众，据故地，自称西州上将军。
及更始败，三辅耆老士大夫皆奔归嚣。
嚣素谦恭爱士，倾身引接为布衣交。
以前王莽平河大尹长安谷恭为掌野大夫，平陵范逡为师友，赵秉、苏衡、郑兴为祭酒，申屠刚、杜林为持书，杨广、王遵、周宗及平襄人行巡、阿阳人王捷、长陵人王元为大将军，杜陵、金丹之属为宾客。
由此名震西州，闻于山东。
建武二年，大司徒邓禹西击赤眉，屯云阳，禹裨将冯愔引兵叛禹，西向天水，嚣逆击，破之于高平，尽获辎重。
于是禹承制遣使持节命嚣为西州大将军，得专制凉州、朔方事。
及赤眉去长安。欲西上陇，嚣遣将军杨广迎击，破之，又追败之于乌氏、泾阳间。
嚣既有功于汉，又受邓禹爵，署其腹心，议者多劝通使京师。
三年，嚣乃上书诣阙。
translation: 
In the summer of the next year, Chimei entered the pass and was disturbed by Sanfu.
It was rumored that Guangwu was already located in Hebei, so Wei Xiao suggested to Gengshi that he should hand over the power to Liu Liang, Guangwu's uncle, but Gengshi refused to listen.
The generals wanted to kidnap Gengshi when he returned to the east, and Wei Xiao also participated in this plan.
After the incident was exposed, Gengshi sent someone to summon Wei Xiao. Wei Xiao claimed that he was ill and would not go away, so he and his subordinates Wang Zun and Zhou Zong led their troops to defend themselves.
Gengshi sent Jinwu Deng Ye to lead an army to surround Kaixiao, but Kaixiao closed the gate and refused to defend. At dusk, he could not hold on and broke the siege. Kaixiao and dozens of riders cut down the city gate at night and fled back to Tianshui.
Then he gathered his old troops, occupied the original territory, and called himself General Xizhou.
When the reform failed, all the senior scholar-bureaucrats in Sanfu fled to Tianshui to join Kaixiao.
Kui Xiao has always been honest and respectful, and he tries his best to introduce famous people as common people's acquaintances.
In the past, Wang Mang's Pinghe great Yin Chang'an Gu Gong was appointed as the official in charge, Pingling Fan Ku was appointed as his mentor, Zhao Bing, Su Heng, and Zheng Xing were the wine drinkers, Shen Tugang and Du Lin were the book holders, Yang Guang, Wang Zun, Zhou Zong and Pingxiang people were on patrol, Wang Jie from Heyang and Wang Yuan from Changling were the generals, and the relatives of Du Ling and Jin Dan were the guests.
From this, he became famous in Xizhou and became famous in Shandong.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, the great Situ Deng Yuxi attacked Chimei and settled in Yunyang. Deng Yu Pi led his troops to rebel against Deng Yu and headed west toward Tianshui. Wei Xiao met the attack, defeated Feng Huanyin at Gaoping, and captured all the baggage.
Therefore, Deng Yu followed the emperor's will and sent a special envoy, Ji Jie Ming, to serve as the general of Xizhou, and he was able to dominate the political affairs of Liangzhou and Shuofang.
When Chimei went to Chang'an and wanted to go west to Long, Kaixiao sent general Yang Guang to attack and defeated Chimei. He also pursued and defeated Chimei between Wushi and Jingyang.
Wei Xiao not only made contributions to the Han Dynasty, but also accepted the title of nobility from Deng Yu, and was able to appoint his confidants. Many people advised him to be the envoy to the capital.
Three years later, Wei Xiao wrote to the capital.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
光武素闻其风声，报以殊礼，言称字，用敌国之仪，所以慰藉之良厚。
时，陈仓人吕鲔拥众数万，与公孙述通，寇三辅。
嚣复遣兵佐征西大将军冯异击之，走鲔，遣歙上状。
帝报以手书曰：
慕乐德义，思相结纳。
昔文王三分，犹服事殷。
但弩马铅刀，不可强扶。
数蒙伯乐一顾之价，而苍蝇之飞，不过数步，即托骥尾，得以绝群。
隔于盗贼，声问不数。
将军操执款款，扶倾救危，南距公孙之兵，北御羌胡之乱，是以冯异西征，得以数千百人踯躅三辅。微将军之助，则咸阳已为他人禽矣。
今关东寇贼，往往屯聚，志务广远，多所不暇，未能观兵成都，与子阳角力。
如令子阳到汉中、三辅，愿因将军兵马，鼓旗相当。
傥肯如言，蒙天之福，即智士计功割地之秋也。
管仲曰； 生我者父母，成我者鲍子。 自今以后，手书相闻，勿用傍人解构之言。
自是恩礼愈笃。
translation: 
Guangwu had always heard of his virtues and reputation, so he rewarded him with special etiquette, addressed him by name, and used the etiquette of a state guest to comfort and recommend him deeply.
At this time, Lü Kun, a native of Chencang, supported tens of thousands of people, and was connected with Gongsun Shu, and invaded the three assistants.
Wei Xiao once again sent troops to help General Feng Yi attack the west, drove Lu Qian away, and sent an envoy to report.
The emperor politely replied in handwriting:
I admire your virtue and want to befriend you.
In the past, King Wen of Zhou had two out of three parts of the world, and he also served the Yin Shang Dynasty.
But the blunt sword of the horse cannot be forced to be used.
I have received patronage ten times the price of Bole several times. A fly can only fly a few steps away, but if it is attached to its tail, it can surpass a group of flies.
You and I are blocked by thieves and cannot greet each other often.
The general was loyal and courteous, supported and rescued people in danger, resisted Gongsun Shu's troops in the south, and resisted the Qiang and Hu bandits in the north. Therefore, Feng Yi marched westward, and thousands of people were trapped in Sanfu. Without the help of the general, Xianyang would have fallen into the hands of the thieves.
Nowadays, the bandits in Guandong often gather in groups, aiming to achieve great success and have no time to spare, so they did not parade in Chengdu to compete with Gongsun Shu.
If Gongsun Shu invades Hanzhong and Sanfu, I would like to borrow the general's troops and horses to have a showdown with him.
If this can be done, it will be a blessing from God, and it is time for wise men to plan their achievements, cut off territories, discuss merits and reward them.
Guan Zhong said: It was my parents who gave birth to me, and it was Uncle Bao who helped me succeed. From now on, you and I can communicate with each other in handwriting, and don't believe in the rumors of others to sow discord.
From then on, Guangwu's kindness to him became even more grand.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
其后公孙述数出兵汉中，遣使以大司空扶安王印绶授嚣。
嚣自以与述敌国，耻为所臣，乃斩其使，出兵击之，连破述军，以故蜀兵不复北出。
时，关中将帅数上书，言蜀可击之状，帝以示器，因使讨蜀，以效其信。
器乃遣长史上书，盛言三辅单弱，刘文伯在边，未宜谋蜀。
帝知嚣欲持两端，不愿天下统一，于是稍黜其礼，正君臣之仪。
初，嚣与来歙、马援相善，故帝数使歙、援奉使往来，劝令入朝，许以重爵。
嚣不欲东，连遣使深持谦辞，言无功德，须四方平方，退伏闾里。
五年，复遣来歙说嚣遣子入侍，嚣闻刘永、鼓宠皆已破灭，乃遣长子恂随歙诣阙。以为胡骑校尉，封镌羌侯。
而嚣将王元、王捷常以为天下成败未可知，不愿专心内事。
元遂说嚣曰： 昔更始西都，四方响应，天下喁喁，谓之太平。
translation: 
Later, Gongsun Shu sent troops to Hanzhong several times, and sent envoys to confer the title of Grand Sikong, King of Fu'an, Yinshou on Kaixiao.
Wei Xiao believed that he had once been an enemy of Shu and felt that it was shameful to be his minister, so he beheaded the envoys and sent out troops to attack and defeated Gongsun Shu's army. Therefore, Shu soldiers no longer went north.
At this time, the generals of Guanzhong wrote several times about the situation of Shu's attack. The emperor conveyed these opinions to Wei Xiao and asked him to send troops to attack Shu to test his credibility.
Wei Xiao then sent his chief to write a letter in the history, saying that the three auxiliary forces were weak and with Lu Fang at his side, it was not appropriate to attack Shu.
Guangwu knew that Wei Xiao wanted to step on both sides of the boat and did not want the world to be unified, so he slightly lowered the courtesy to Wei Xiao and corrected the etiquette between the monarch and his ministers.
At first, Wei Xiao had a good relationship with Lai She and Ma Yuan, so the emperor sent Lai She and Ma Yuan several times as envoys to persuade Wei Xiao to enter the court and promise him a high title.
Kuai Xiao was unwilling to return to the east, so he sent envoys to see him one after another with memorials expressing his humility, saying that he had no merit and would wait until the four sides were settled before resigning and returning to his hometown.
Five years later, the emperor once again sent Lai She to persuade Kaixiao to send his son to serve. Kaixiao heard that both Liu Yong and Peng Chong had been destroyed, so he sent his eldest son Wei Xun to follow Laishe to the capital to pay a visit. He was named Hu Qi Xiaowei and Marquis of Qiang.
However, Wang Yuan and Wang Jie, the generals of Wei Xiao, often thought that the success or failure of the world was still unknown and were unwilling to submit to Guangwu wholeheartedly.
Wang Yuan then said to Wei Xiao: "In the past, Chang'an, the capital of the West, was responded to by all directions, and the world looked up to him, saying that the world was at peace."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
一旦败坏，大王几所厝。
今南有子阳，北有文伯，江湖海岱，王公十数，而欲牵儒生之说，弃千乘之基，羁旅危国，以求万全，此循覆车之轨，计之不可者也。
今天水完富，士马最强，北收西河、上郡，东收三辅之地，案秦旧迹，表里河山。
元请以一丸泥为大王东封函谷关，此万世一时也。
若计不及此，且畜养士马，据隘自守，旷日持久，以待四方之变，图王不成，其弊犹足以霸。
要之，鱼不可脱于渊，神龙失势，即还与蚯蚓同。 嚣心然元计，虽遣子入质，犹负其险厄，欲专方面，于是游士长者，稍稍去之。
六年，关东悉平。
帝积苦兵间，以嚣子内侍，公孙述远据边陲，乃谓诸将曰： 且当置此两子于度外耳。 因数腾书陇、蜀，告示祸福。
嚣宾客、掾史多文学生，每所上事，当世士大夫皆讽诵之，故帝有所辞答，尤加意焉，嚣复遣使周游诣阙，先到冯异营，游为仇家所杀。
translation: 
Once the reform fails, the king will have almost no place to stay.
Now there are Gongsun Shu in the south, Lu Fang in the north, Jianghu Haitai, Zhang Bu, Dong Xian and more than a dozen princes, each occupying one side. They want to accommodate Ma Yuan's opinions, give up the Qiancheng foundation, and live as guests in dangerous countries in order to be safe. This is following the track of overturning the car, and it is not a good plan.
Now Tianshui is complete and prosperous, and the army and horses are the most powerful. Xihe and Shangjun are attacked in the north, and the three auxiliary lands are taken in the east. According to the old traces of Qin, the outer mountains and inner rivers are the inside and outside of each other.
Wang Yuan requested that he use a small number of troops to guard the dangerous Hangu Pass for the king. This was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
If this strategy cannot be adopted now, then temporarily raise troops and horses, defend yourself according to danger, and hold on to wait for changes in all directions. Even if the king fails, taking a step back is enough to dominate one party.
In short, fish cannot escape from deep water. Without the support of dragons, they are no different from earthworms. Wei Xiao heartily agreed with Wang Yuan's plan. Although he sent his son to the court as a hostage, he still wanted to dominate the country by relying on its dangerous geographical conditions. So some elders gradually left him.
In six years, Guandong was pacified.
Because of the long military hardships, the emperor thought that Wei Xiao had a son as a servant and Gongsun Shu was stationed far away in the border area, so he said to the generals: Put these two boys aside for the time being. Therefore, several letters were sent to Wei Xiao and Gongsun Shu, telling them of misfortunes and blessings.
Most of Kui Xiao's guests and ministers were bachelors of literature. Every time they wrote a letter to express their opinions, the scholar-bureaucrats of the time would read and recite it aloud, so they paid special attention to the emperor's remarks. Wei Xiao once again sent envoys to travel around the capital. They first went to Feng Yiying, but Zhou You was killed by his enemies.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝遣卫尉铫期持珍宝缯帛赐嚣，期至郑被盗，亡失财物。
帝常称嚣长者，务欲招之，闻而叹曰： 吾与隗嚣事欲不谐，使来见杀，得赐道亡。
会公孙述遣兵寇南郡，乃诏嚣当从天水伐蜀，因此欲以溃其心腹。
嚣复上言： 白水险阻，栈阁绝败。 又多设支阂。
帝知其终不为用，叵欲讨之。
遂西幸长安，遣建威大将军耿弇等七将军从陇道伐蜀，先使来歙奉玺书喻旨。
嚣疑惧，即勒兵，使王元据陇坻，伐木塞道，谋欲杀歙。歙得亡归。
诸将与嚣战，大败，各引退。
嚣因使王元、行巡侵三辅，征西大将军冯异、征虏将军祭遵等击破之。
嚣乃上疏谢曰： 吏人闻大兵卒至，惊恐自救，臣嚣不能禁止。
兵有大利，不敢废臣子之节，亲自追还。昔虞舜事父，大杖则走，小杖则受。
臣虽不敏，敢忘斯义。
translation: 
The emperor sent Wei Wei Yaoqi to bring treasures and silk to reward Kaixiao. When Yaoqi went to Zheng, he encountered thieves and all the treasures and property were stolen.
The emperor often called Kaixiao an elder and tried every means to recruit him. After hearing the news, he sighed: Things between me and Weixiao were not going well. The envoy he sent was killed, and all the property I gave him was stolen on the road.
It happened that Gongsun Shu sent troops to invade Nanjun, so Guangwu issued an edict to order Wei Xiao to attack Shu from Tianshui, hoping to divide and disintegrate his confidants.
Wei Xiao wrote again and said: The terrain of Baishui is very dangerous, the mountain road is dangerous, and the road is made of stacks of trees. The difficulties were emphasized in many ways.
The emperor knew that Wei Xiao would not be used by him, so he wanted to attack him.
He went west to Chang'an and sent Geng, the general of Jianwei, and seven other generals to attack Shu from Longdao. He first sent She Fengxi to inform Weixiao.
Kui Xiao was suspicious and fearful, so he led his troops to resist, causing Wang Yuan to occupy Longdi. He cut down trees to block the road, hoping to kill Lai She, who then fled back.
The generals fought with Kai Xiao and were defeated, and each led his troops to retreat.
Therefore, Wei Xiao sent Wang Yuan and Xing to patrol and plunder the Sanfu, but they were defeated by General Feng Yi and General Ji Zun.
Wei Xiao then wrote a letter to apologize and said: "When my subordinates heard that the soldiers were suddenly arriving, they were frightened and tried to save themselves. I, Wei Xiao, could not stop it."
He did not dare to break the loyalty of his ministers and return the spoils of war himself. In the past, Yu Shun served his father. When his father hit him with a big stick, he would run away, but when his father hit him with a small stick, he would let him hit him.
Although I am not sensitive, I dare not forget this etiquette.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今臣之事，在于本朝，赐死则死，加刑则刑。
如遂蒙恩，更得洗心，死骨不朽。 有司以嚣言慢，请诛其子恂，帝不忍，复使来歙至氵幵，赐嚣书曰： 昔柴将军与韩信书云： 陛下宽仁，诸侯虽有亡叛而后归，辄复位号，不诛也。
以嚣文吏，晓义理，故复赐书。
深言则似不逊，略言则事不决。
今若束手，复遣恂弟归阙庭者，则爵禄获全，有浩大之福矣。
吾年垂四十，在兵中十岁，厌浮语虚辞。
即不欲，勿报。 嚣知帝审其诈，遂遣使称臣于公孙述。
明年，述以嚣为朔宁王，遣兵往来，为之援势。
秋，嚣将步骑三万侵安定，至阴槃，冯异率诸将拒之。
嚣又令别将下陇，攻祭遵于氵幵，兵并无利，乃引还。
帝因令来歙以书招王遵，遵乃与家属东诣京师，拜为太中大夫，封向义侯。
遵字子春，霸陵人也。
徒以人思旧主，先君蒙汉厚恩，思效万分耳。 又数劝嚣遣子入侍，前后辞谏切甚，嚣不从，故去焉。
translation: 
Now my affairs are all decided by this dynasty. If you want to kill me, I will kill you, and if you want to increase the punishment, I will increase the punishment.
If you are forgiven by grace and can change your mind, your life will be immortal. The officials thought that Wei Xiao had spoken arrogantly and requested that his son Wei Xun be killed. The emperor could not bear it, so he sent She again and sent a letter to Wei Xiao, saying: General Chai previously wrote to Han Xin: Your Majesty is merciful. Although some princes have rebelled and come back, they will still have their titles restored and will not be killed.
Since you, Kuai Xiao, are a civil servant and understand justice, I give you this book.
If you speak more clearly, it will appear impolite. If you say too little, it will be difficult to make a decision.
If you stop now and send your son Wei Xun to me as you did in the past, then you will get all the honors and fortunes, and you will enjoy great blessings.
I am almost forty years old and have been in the military for ten years. I hate those empty words.
If you don't want to, don't reciprocate. Wei Xiao knew that the emperor had noticed his treachery, so he sent an envoy to Gongsun Shu to proclaim his vassal.
In the second year, Gongsun Shu appointed Wei Xiao as King Shuoning and sent troops to show support.
In autumn, Wei Xiao led 30,000 infantry and cavalry to invade Anding and reached Yin. Feng Yi led his generals to resist.
Wei Xiao also ordered other generals to go down to Long and attack Ji Zunyu, but they were unsuccessful, so he withdrew his troops and returned.
The emperor came to She with a letter to recruit Wang Zun. Wang Zun and his family went east to the capital, where he was worshiped as Taizhong doctor and granted the title of Xiang Yihou.
Wang Zun, courtesy name Zichun, was from Baling.
His father is the prefect of Shangjun. Wang Zun was a gallant and eloquent person when he was young. Although he raised troops with Wei Xiao, he often had the intention of returning to the Han Dynasty. He also repeatedly urged Wei Xiao to send his son to serve in the court, and he was very sincere in admonishing him, but he refused, so Wang Zun left Kai Xiao and returned to Shun Guangwu.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
八年春，来歙从山道袭得略阳城。
嚣出不意，惧更有大兵，乃使王元拒陇坻，行巡守番须口，王孟塞鸡头道，牛邯军瓦亭，嚣自悉其大众围来歙。
公孙述亦遣其将李育、田弇助器攻略阳，连月不下。
亲乃率诸将西征之，数道上陇，使王遵持节监大司马吴汉留屯于长安。
遵知嚣必败灭，而与牛邯旧故，知其有归义意，以书喻之曰：
遵与隗王歃盟为汉，自经历虎口，践履死地，已十数矣。
于时周洛以西无所统壹，故为王策，欲东收关中，北取上郡，进以奉天人之用，退以惩外夷之乱。
数年之间，冀圣汉复存，当挈河陇奉旧都以归本朝。
生民以来，臣人之势，未有便于此时者也。
而王之将吏，群居穴处之徒，人人抵掌，欲为不善之计。
遵与孺卿日夜所争，害几及身者，岂一事哉！
前计抑绝，后策不从，所以吟啸扼腕，垂涕登车。
幸蒙封拜，得延论论，每及西州之事，未尝敢忘孺卿之言。
今车驾大众，已在道路，吴、耿骁将，云集四境，而孺卿以奔离之卒，距要厄，当军冲，视其形势何如哉？
translation: 
In the spring of the eighth year, Lai She attacked Lueyang City from the mountain road.
Wei Xiao was afraid that there would be more soldiers, so he sent Wang Yuan to guard Longdi and patrol Fanxukou. Wang Meng blocked Jitou Road and Niuhan garrisoned Wating. Wei Xiao led a large army to surround She.
Gongsun Shu also sent generals Li Yu and Tian Yan to help Wei Xiao attack Yang, but he could not capture it for several months.
The emperor then led his generals to march westward, and marched toward Long with several troops and horses, and ordered the king to stay in Chang'an, the chief commander of the festival, Wu Han.
Wang Zun knew that Weixiao would be destroyed, and he was an old friend of Niu Han. Knowing that he wanted to return to the Han Dynasty, he wrote to him and said:
Wang Zun and King Wei formed a blood alliance and became the Han Dynasty. Since then, they have experienced the tiger's mouth and the desperate situation more than ten times.
At that time, there was no unity to the west of Zhou Luo, so he made suggestions for King Wei. He wanted to take Guanzhong in the east and Shangjun in the north, so as to advance to serve the will of heaven and people's hearts and retreat to punish the rebellion of foreign barbarians.
In a few years, I hope that the Holy Han will survive again, and the land of Helong should be dedicated to the old tribe to submit to this dynasty.
Since the beginning of time, the situation of ministers has never been more convenient than now.
Most of King Wei's generals were people who lived in caves in the wild and did not understand current affairs. Everyone talked about it and tried to do evil things.
Is there only one thing that you and I have been fighting about day and night, and that has almost brought disaster to us?
The previous plan was rejected, and the subsequent plan refused to be obeyed, so he looked up to the sky and sighed, and boarded the car with tears in his eyes.
Fortunately, I was granted the title of Taizhong doctor and was able to discuss matters in my official position. Whenever I think about the affairs of Xizhou, I dare not forget what you said in the past.
Now the imperial chariot is marching in person, the chariots and chariots are already on the road, brave generals such as Wu Han and Geng are gathered in the four areas, and you, with your soldiers fleeing, are refusing to defend the Wating pass and are the key point of the Han army's attack. What will be the situation on both sides?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
夫智者睹危思变，贤者泥而不滓，是以功名终申，策画复得。
故夷吾束缚而相齐，黥布杖敛以归汉，去愚就义，功名并著。
今孺卿当成败之际，遇严兵之锋，可为怖栗。
宜断之心胸，参之有识。
邯得书，沉吟十余日，乃谢士众，归命洛阳，拜为太中大夫。
于是嚣大将十三人，属县十六，众十众万，皆降。
王元入蜀求救，嚣将妻子奔西域，从杨广，而田弇、李育保上邽。
诏告嚣曰： 若束手自诣，父子相见，保无他也。
高皇帝云： 横来，大者王，小者侯。
若遂欲为黥布者，亦自任也。 嚣终不降。
于是诛其子恂，使吴汉与征南大将军岑彭围西城，耿弇与虎牙大将军盖延围上邽。
车驾东归。
月余，杨广死，嚣穷困。
translation: 
Smart people should think of contingency plans when they see danger, and wise people can emerge from the mud unstained, so their fame can finally be extended and their plans can finally be restored.
Therefore, Guan Zhong was bound and sent away to become the prime minister. He returned to the Han Dynasty with a tattoo and a sword. He abandoned his foolishness and sincerity and performed a righteous act, gaining both fame and fame.
You are now at the crossroads of success or failure, and you are facing the sharp edge of a powerful force, which is very scary.
You should make up your mind to make a decision quickly and consult with knowledgeable people.
Niu Han got the book, thought about it for more than ten days, and finally made a decision. He thanked the scholars, returned to Luoyang, and was worshiped as a Taizhong doctor.
As a result, 13 of Kaixiao's generals, 16 counties, and more than 100,000 soldiers surrendered without a fight.
Wang Yuan went to Shu to ask for help. Wei Xiao led his wife to the west city and followed Yang Guang, while Tian and Li Yubao went to Guiyang.
The emperor sent an edict to Wei Xiao, saying: "If you restrain your hands and come by yourself, then the father and son will meet each other, and nothing will happen."
Emperor Gao said: When Tian Heng comes back, the older one will be granted the title of king and the younger one will be granted the title of marquis.
If you want to be like Ting Bu and never surrender, then that's up to you. Wei Xiao finally refused to surrender.
So Guangwu killed his son Wei Xun, and sent Wu Han and Cen Peng, the general of Zhengnan, to besiege the west city, and Geng and Huya general Gai Yan to besiege Gui'an.
Guangwu returned to the east.
More than a month later, Yang Guang died, and Kui Xiao became even more depressed.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
其大将王捷别在戎丘，登城呼汉军曰： 为隗王城守者，皆必死无二心！愿诸军亟罢，请自杀以明之。 遂自刎颈死。
数月，王元、行巡、周宗将蜀救兵五千余人，乘高卒至，鼓噪大呼曰： 百万之众方至！ 汉军大惊，未及成陈，元等决围，殊死战，遂得入城，迎嚣归冀。
会吴汉等食尽退去，于是安定、北地、天水、陇西复反为嚣。
九年春，嚣病且饿，出城餐糗糒，恚愤而死。
王元、周宗立嚣少子纯为王。
明年，来歙、耿弇、盖延等攻破落门，周宗、行巡、苛宇、赵恢等将纯降。
宗、恢及诸隗分徙京师以东，纯与巡、宇徙弘农。
唯王元留为蜀将。
及辅威将军臧宫破延岑，元举众诣宫降。
元字惠孟，初拜上蔡令，迁东平相，坐垦田不实，下狱死。
牛邯字孺卿，狄道人。有勇力才气，雄于边垂。
及降，大司徒司直杜林、太中大夫马援并荐之，以为护羌校尉，与来歙平陇右。
十八年，纯与宾客数十骑亡入胡，至武威，捕得，诛之。
论曰：隗嚣援旗纠族，假制明神，迹夫创图首事，有以识其风矣。
终于孤立一隅，介于大国，陇坻虽隘，非有百二之势，区区两郡，以御堂堂之锋，至使穷庙策，竭征徭，身殁众解，然后定之。
则知其道有足怀者，所以栖有四方之桀，士至投死绝亢而不悔者矣。
夫功全则誉显，业谢则衅生，回成丧而为其议者，或未闻焉。
若嚣命会符运，敌非天力，虽坐论西伯，岂多嗤乎？
translation: 
His general, Wang Jie, was stationed at Rongqiu. He climbed up the city tower and shouted to the Han army: "The soldiers guarding the city for King Wei all know that they will die without any hesitation. I hope you will stop attacking the city as soon as possible. Please let me commit suicide to prove what I said." So he committed suicide.
A few months later, Wang Yuan, Xingxun, Zhou Zong and others led more than 5,000 reinforcements from Shu. They suddenly arrived from a high place, beat drums and shouted: "A million-strong army has just arrived!" The Han army was frightened and had no time to prepare their positions. Wang Yuan and others broke through the siege and fought desperately to enter the city and welcome Wei Xiao back to Hebei.
It happened that Wu Han and others retreated because they ran out of food, so Anding, Beidi, Tianshui, and Longxi returned to Weixiao.
In the spring of the ninth year, Kuai Xiao was sick and hungry. He went out of the city to boil soybeans and rice for food, and finally died of anger.
Wang Yuan and Zhou Zong made Kai Chun, the youngest son of Kai Xiao, king.
The next year, Lai She, Geng, Gai Yan and others attacked and fell. Zhou Zong, Xing Xun, Gou Yu, Zhao Hui and others surrendered with Kai Chun.
Zhou Zong, Zhao Hui and Zhu Wei moved to the east of the capital respectively, and Wei Chun, Xing Xun and Gou Yu moved to Hongnong.
Only Wang Yuan remained as a Shu general.
When the auxiliary general Zang Gong defeated Yancen, Wang Yuan led everyone to surrender to Zang Gong.
Wang Yuan, whose courtesy name was Huimeng, first served as magistrate of Cai County after the surrender, and later moved to the post of Prime Minister of Dongping. He was imprisoned and died for the crime of untruthfully cultivating land.
Niu Han, named Ruqing, was born in Di Dao. He was brave and talented and dominated the frontier.
After returning to the Han Dynasty, he was recommended by Du Lin, the great situ Sizhi, and Ma Yuan, the great minister of Taizhong, so he became a captain to protect the Qiang, and together with Lai She, he pacified Longyou.
In the 18th year, Kai Chun and dozens of his guests prepared to flee into Hu. When they arrived in Wuwei, they were captured and killed.
The historian commented: "Kui Xiao raised a banner to gather his clan, and established the Gaozu and Xiaowen temples as false gods. When you examine his first creation, you can see his style."
Later, it was finally isolated in a corner, between Han and Shu. Although Longdi was dangerous, it did not have the power of 20,000 people to fight against a million people. The two counties of Longxi and Tianshui were used to fight against Guangwu's powerful army, until they were exhausted in wisdom and strength, with no corvee and taxes. Finally, they died and the troops collapsed, and then they were able to pacify.
It can be seen that there is indeed something worth remembering about his conduct. This is the reason why heroes from all over the world gathered under his command, and the soldiers were loyal and committed suicide without regret.
Fame and reputation will become prominent, careers will wither, and various sins will occur. The success or failure of things depends on heaven and not on people. Perhaps I have not heard of anyone who can break this conclusion.
If Wei Xiao's fate is consistent with his luck, and the opponent he encounters is not a powerful opponent like Guangwu, then can we laugh more at comparing Wei Xiao with Xibo in history?


Chunk 15: 
original: 
公孙述字子阳，扶风茂陵人也。
哀帝时，以父任为郎，后父仁为河南都尉，而述补清水长。
仁以述年少，遣门下掾随之官，月余，掾辞归，白仁曰： 述非待教者也。 后太守以其能，使兼摄五具，政事修理，奸盗不发，郡中谓有鬼神。
王莽天凤中，为导江卒正，居临邛，复有能名。
及更始立，豪杰各起其县以应汉，南阳人宗成自称： 虎牙将军 ，入略汉中；又商人王岑亦起兵于雒县，自称 定汉将军 ，杀王莽庸部牧以应成，众合数万人。
述闻之，遣使迎成等。
成等至成都，虏掠暴横。
述意恶之，召县中豪桀谓曰： 天下同苦新室，思刘氏久矣，故闻汉将军到，驰迎道路。
今百姓无辜而妇子系获，室屋烧燔，此寇贼，非义兵也。
吾欲保郡自守，以待真主。诸卿欲并力者即留，不欲者便去。 豪桀皆叩头曰： 愿效死。 述于是使人诈称汉使者自东方来，假述辅汉将军、蜀郡太守兼益州牧印绶。
乃选精兵千余人，西击成等。
比至成都，众数千人，遂攻成，大破之。
成将垣副杀成，以其众降。
二年秋，更始遣柱功侯李宝、益州刺史张忠，将兵万余人徇蜀、汉。
述恃其地险众附，有自立志，乃使其弟恢于绵竹击宝、忠，大破走之。
由是威震益部。
功曹李熊说述曰： 方今四海波荡，匹夫横议。
将军割据千里，地什汤、武，若奋威德以投天隙，霸王之业成矣。
宜改名号，以镇百姓。 述曰： 吾亦虑之，公言起我意。 于是自立为蜀王，都成都。
蜀地肥饶，兵力精强，远方士庶多往归之，邛、笮君长皆来贡献。
李熊复说述曰： 今山东饥馑，人庶相食；兵所屠灭，城邑丘墟。
蜀地沃野千里，土壤膏腴，果实所生，无谷而饱。
translation: 
Gongsun Shu, courtesy name Ziyang, was born in Maoling, Fufeng. During the reign of Emperor Ai, he took his father Baoren as his minister.
Later, his father, Gongsun Ren, became the captain of Henan, and Gongsun Shu replaced him as the magistrate of Qingshui County. Gongsun Ren said that Gongsun Shu was young and sent his disciples to follow him to his post.
After more than a month, he returned home and said to Gongsun Ren: "Gongsun Shu is not someone waiting to be taught." Later, the eunuch took advantage of the report and asked him to take charge of five counties. As a result, the political affairs of these five counties were repaired, gangsters and bandits no longer occurred, and the county said that there were ghosts and gods.
Wang Mang, Tianfengzhong, was the leader of Jiang Zhengzheng. He lived in Linqiong and was also famous as Neng.
When Gengshi came to the throne, heroes raised troops in their respective counties to respond. Zongcheng from Nanyang called himself "General Huya" and invaded Hanzhong; Wang Cen, a businessman, also raised troops in Luo County and called himself "General Dinghan". He killed Wang Mangyong's pastor in response to Zongcheng, and tens of thousands of people were gathered.
When Gongsun Shu heard about it, he sent envoys to meet Zong Cheng and others.
Zongcheng waited until Chengdu, where he looted and tyrannized.
Gongsun Shu was disgusted, so he summoned the heroes of the county and said to them: "The whole world is suffering from Wang Mang's new wife. I have been thinking about the Liu family for a long time, so as soon as I heard that the Han general had arrived, I sent someone to greet him."
Now the people are innocent, but the women and children have become prisoners, and the people's homes and houses have been burned. This is bandits, not volunteers.
Gongsun Shu then sent someone to falsely claim that a Han envoy was coming from the east, and ordered Gongsun Shu to temporarily act as the assistant general of the Han Dynasty, the prefect of Shu County, and the Mu Yinshou of Yizhou.
He selected more than a thousand elite soldiers to attack Zong Cheng and others westward.
When they reached the capital and grew to thousands of people, they launched an attack on Zongcheng and defeated Zongcheng.
Zongcheng's general Yuan Fu killed Zongcheng and led his troops to surrender to Gongsun Shu.
In the autumn of the second year, Gengshi sent Li Bao, the Marquis of Zhugong, and Zhang Zhong, the governor of Yizhou, to lead more than 10,000 troops to invade Shu and Han.
Gongsun Shu relied on the dangerous terrain of Shu and the people's surrender, and he had the will to establish himself as king, so he sent his younger brother Gongsun Hui to attack Li Bao and Zhang Zhong in Mianzhu, defeated Bao and Zhong and drove them away.
From then on, Gongsun Shu's power shocked and benefited the tribe.
The meritorious officer Li Xiong told Gongsun: Now the world is turbulent and uneasy, and the common people are talking wantonly.
The generals separated themselves thousands of miles away, and the area was ten times that of Tang and Wu in the past. If they can use their might and virtue to suit the heaven and earth, they can achieve the cause of overlordship.
The name should be changed to calm the people. Gongsun Shu said: I have also thought about it. Your words inspired me. So he proclaimed himself King of Shu and established his capital in Chengdu.
The land of Shu was fertile and fertile, and its military force was strong. Many scholars and people from far away came to join him, and the kings of Qiong and Zeo, small countries in the southwest, all came to contribute.
Li Xiong said to Gongsun again: "Now there is a famine in Shandong, and the people are eating each other. They have been massacred by the army, and the cities have become ruins."
The land of Shu is fertile and wild for thousands of miles, and the soil is fertile, and the fruits grown there can fill your stomach even if you don't cultivate it.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
女工之业，覆衣天下。
名材竹干，器构之饶，不可胜用，又有鱼、盐、铜、银之利，浮水转漕之便。
北据汉中，杜褒、斜之险；东守巴郡，拒扞关之口；地方数千里，战士不下百万。
见利则出兵而略地，无利则坚守而力农。
东下汉水以窥秦地，南顺江流以震荆、杨。
所谓用天因地，成功之资。
今君王之声，闻于天下，而名号未定，志士孤疑，宜即大位，使远人有所依归。 述曰： 帝王有命，吾何足以当之？ 熊曰： 天命无常，百姓与能。
能者当之，王何疑焉！ 述梦有人语之曰： 八厶子系，十二为期。 觉，谓其妻曰： 虽贵而祚短，若何？ 妻对曰： 朝闻道，夕死尚可，况十二乎！ 会有龙出其府殿中，夜有光耀，述以为符瑞，因刻其掌，文曰 公孙帝 。
建武元年四月，遂自立为天子，号成家。色尚白。
建元曰龙兴元年。
translation: 
Women's textile industry can cover the world with clothes.
The precious wood, bamboo trunks, and the abundance of equipment are inexhaustible. It also has the benefit of fish, salt, copper and silver, which can be easily transported by floating water to canals.
To the north, Hanzhong is occupied, blocking the dangerous points of Bao and Xie; to the east, Bajun is guarded, and the entrance to Qianguan is blocked; the area is thousands of miles away, and there are no less than a million soldiers.
If you see a favorable opportunity, you will send troops to expand your territory; if it is unfavorable, you will stick to it and engage in agriculture.
To the east, you can go down to the Han River to get a glimpse of the Qin Dynasty, and to the south, you can follow the river to shake Jing and Yang.
It means having the right time, right place and all the conditions for success.
Now your reputation as the King of Shu has been heard all over the world, but your title has not yet been decided. People with lofty ideals are doubting and waiting. You should take the throne and make people from far away have something to rely on. Gongsun said: The emperor is destined by fate, how can I afford it? Li Xiong said: There is no definite destiny. The common people will follow the capable people and the capable people will shoulder the mission. Why do you still doubt it?
Gongsun Shu dreamed that someone said to him: The eight-year-old son lineage lasts for twelve years. After waking up, he said to his wife: Although he is noble, he is short-lived. How about that? The wife said: If I hear the Word in the morning, it will be okay if I die in the evening, let alone twelve! It happened that a dragon came out of the palace, and there was a dazzling light at night. Gongsun Shu thought it was Fu Rui, so he wrote on the palm of his hand: Emperor Gongsun.
In April of the first year of Jianwu, he proclaimed himself emperor, named himself a family, and was still white.
The year of establishment is the first year of Longxing.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
以李熊为大司徒，以其弟光为大司马，恢为大司空。
改益州为司隶校尉，蜀郡为成都尹。
越巂任贵亦杀王莽大尹而据郡降。
述遂使将军侯丹开白水关，北守南郑；将军任满从阆中下江州，东据扞关。
于是尽有益州之地。
自更始败后，光武方事山东，未遑西伐。
关中豪杰吕鲔等往往拥众以万数，莫知所属，多往归述，皆拜为将军。
遂大作营垒，陈车骑，肄习战射，会聚兵甲数十万人，积粮汉中，筑宫南郑。
又造十层赤楼帛兰船。
多刻天下牧守印章，备置公卿百官。
使将军李育、程乌将数万众出陈仓，与吕鲔徇三辅。
三年，征西将军冯异击鲔、育于陈仓，大败之，鲔、育奔汉中。
五年，延岑、田戎为汉兵所败，皆亡入蜀。
岑字叔牙，南阳人。
始起据汉中，又拥兵关西，所在破散，走至南阳，略有数县。
戎，汝南人。初起兵夷陵，转寇郡县，众数万人。
translation: 
Li Xiong was appointed as the Great Situ, his younger brother Gongsun Guang was appointed as the Great Sima, and Gongsun Hui was appointed as the Great Sikong.
Yizhou was renamed Sili Xiaowei, and Shu County was renamed Chengdu Yin.
Yuexun Rengui also killed Wang Mang Dayin and occupied the county to surrender to Gongsun Shu.
After that, he sent General Hou Dan to open Baishui Pass and guard Nanzheng in the north. After his term was over, General Hou went down to Jiangzhou from Langzhong and occupied Luqian Pass in the east.
So all the land in Yizhou belonged to Gongsun Shu.
Since the defeat of Gengshi, Guangwu was busy with affairs in Shandong and did not have time to make an expedition to the west.
The heroes of Guanzhong, such as Lu Jun, often had tens of thousands of soldiers, but they didn't know where they belonged. They often returned to Gongsun Shu, who worshiped them as generals.
So he built a large fort, prepared chariots and cavalry, practiced warfare and archery, gathered hundreds of thousands of soldiers, accumulated grain in Hanzhong, and built a palace in Nanzheng.
He also built a ten-story red-roofed orchid boat.
The seals of the shepherds and guardians of the world are engraved many times, and all officials are prepared.
He sent generals Li Yu and Cheng Wu to lead tens of thousands of troops out of Chencang, and together with Lu Tuna invaded Sanfu.
In the third year, Feng Yi, the general who conquered the west, attacked Lu Tuna and Li Yu in Chencang. They defeated Tuna and Yu, and Tuna and Yu fled to Hanzhong.
In the fifth year, Yan Cen and Tian Rong were defeated by Han soldiers, and Cen and Rong troops fled to Shu.
Yancen, courtesy name Shuya, was from Nanyang.
When he started to raise troops, he occupied Hanzhong, and then supported Guanxi. After Guanxi was defeated, he moved to Nanyang and occupied several counties.
Tian Rong, a native of Runan, first raised his army in Yiling and then invaded counties and counties, growing to tens of thousands.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
岑、戎并与秦丰合，丰俱以女妻之。
及丰败，故二人皆降于述。
述以岑为大司马，封汝宁王，戎翼江王。
六年，述遣戎与将军任满出江关，下监沮、夷陵间，招其故众，因欲取荆州诸郡，竟不能克。
是时，述废铜钱，置铁官钱，百姓货币不行。
蜀中童谣言曰： 黄牛白腹，五铢当复。 好事者窃言王莽称 黄，述自号 白 ，五铢钱，汉货也，言天下并还刘氏。
述亦好为符命鬼神瑞应之事，妄引谶记。
以为孔子作《春秋》，为赤制而断十二公，明汉至平帝十二代，历数尽也，一姓不得再受命。
又引《录运法》曰： 废昌帝，立公孙。 《括地象》曰： 帝轩辕受命，公孙氏握。 《援神契》曰： 西太守，乙卯金。 谓西方太守而乙绝卯金也。五德之运，黄承赤而白继黄，金据西方为白德，而代王氏，得其正序。又自言手文有奇，及得龙兴之瑞。
数移书中国，冀以感动众心。
帝患之，乃与述书曰： 图谶言 公孙 ，即宣帝也。
代汉者当涂高，君岂高之身邪？
乃复以掌文为瑞，王莽何足效乎！
translation: 
Yancen and Tian Rongdu joined Qin Feng, and Qin Fengdu gave his daughter to Cen and Rong as his wife.
Later, Qin Feng failed, and both Cen and Rong surrendered to Gongsun Shu.
Gongsun Shu made Yancen the Grand Sima, granted him the title of King of Runing, and made Tianrong the King of Yijiang.
In the sixth year, Gongsun Shu sent Tian Rong and General Renman out of Jiangguan and went down to Ju and Yiling to recruit their old people. They wanted to capture the counties in Jingzhou, but they failed.
At this time, Gongsun Shu abolished copper coins and installed iron officials to mint coins. The coins in the hands of the people could not circulate.
A nursery rhyme in Shu says: A yellow ox has a white belly, and five baht is worth it. The good people whispered that Wang Mang called himself "Huang", Gongsun Shu called himself "Bai", and the five baht coins were Han goods, saying that the world should be rewarded and returned to the Liu family.
Gongsun Shu was also fond of quoting prophecies in absurd ways for fortune-telling ghosts and gods.
It is thought that Confucius created the Spring and Autumn Period and cut off the twelve dukes for the red system, which shows that twelve generations have passed from Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty. The calendar has been completed, and one surname can no longer be appointed as emperor.
He also quoted Lu Yunfa as saying: Depose Emperor Chang and establish Gongsun. Kuo Dixiang said: Emperor Xuanyuan was ordered by Gongsun. The aid deed says: The governor of the West, Yimao Jin. It is said that the Western governor eliminated the Liu family of Maojin. In the fortune of the Five Virtues, Huang succeeded Chi and Bai succeeded Huang. Jin occupied the west as Baide and replaced the Wang family to obtain the correct order. He also said that the lines on his hands were strange, and he was able to establish the auspiciousness of Longxing.
These things were transferred to China several times, hoping to confuse people's minds.
Guangwu was worried, so he wrote to Gongsun and said: The Gongsun mentioned in the prophecy is Emperor Xuan.
Dai Han is supposed to be Tu Gao, are you supposed to be Tu Gao?
You regard palm prints as auspiciousness, what can Wang Mang do to imitate you?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
君非吾贼臣乱子，仓卒时人皆欲为君事耳，何足数也。
君日月已逝，妻子弱小，当早为定计，可以无忧。
天下神器，不可力争，宜留三思。 署曰 公孙皇帝 。
述不答。
明年，隗嚣称臣于述。
述骑都尉平陵人荆邯见东方将平，兵且西向，说述曰：
兵者，帝王之大器，古今所不能废也。
昔秦失其守，豪桀并起，汉祖无前人之迹，立锥之地，起于行阵之中，躬自奋击，兵破身困者数矣。
然军败复合，创愈复战。
何则？前死而成功，逾于却就于灭亡也。
隗嚣遭遇运会，割有雍州，兵强士附，威加山东。
遇更始政乱，复失天下，众庶引领，四方瓦解。
嚣不及此时推危乘胜，以争天命，而退欲为西伯之事，尊师章句，宾友处士，偃武自戈，卑辞事汉，喟然自以文王复出也。
translation: 
You are not my rebellious minister and traitor. Everyone wants to be the emperor in a hurry, so you are not worthy of blame.
Your days and months have passed away, and your wife and children are weak. You should have made plans in advance so that you can have no worries.
The emperor's throne cannot be fought for, so you should think twice. Signed by Emperor Gongsun.
Gongsun Shu made no reply.
The next year, Wei Xiao declared himself a minister to Gongsun Shu.
Gongsun Shu's cavalry captain Jing Han from Pingling saw that the generals in the east were at peace and the Han soldiers were marching to the west, so he said to Gongsun Shu:
Soldiers are an important weapon of emperors and cannot be abolished in ancient or modern times.
In the past, Qin lost its defense and its heroes rose up together. Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was a commoner, with no traces of his predecessors and no place to establish himself. He raised his troops among the troops and fought personally. The troops were defeated and he was besieged many times.
However, after the defeat, they reunited, and after being healed from their wounds, they went back to fighting.
From this point of view, struggling in the realm of death will lead to success, while crawling in the gaps will bring you closer to death.
Kaixiao encountered an excellent opportunity and separatized Yongzhou, with strong soldiers and soldiers, and Weijia Shandong.
In the face of political chaos during the Gengshi period, the country was lost again. The people looked up and down, and the four directions tended to collapse.
Wei Xiao did not take advantage of the crisis to rise up and fight for destiny. Instead, he retreated and wanted to contribute to Xibo's career. He respected Zheng Xing and others as his masters of chapters and sentences, and became friends with Fang Wang and other ministers. He stopped fighting in military affairs and served the Han Dynasty with an inferiority complex. He sighed and thought that he was the reincarnation of King Wen.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
令汉帝释关陇之忧，专精东伐，四分天下而有其三；使西州豪杰咸居心于山东，发间使，招携贰，则五分而有其四；若举兵天水，必至沮溃，天水既定，则九分而有其八。
陛下以梁州之地，内奉万乘，外给三军，百姓愁困，不堪上命，将有王氏自溃之变。
臣之愚计，以为宜及天下之望未绝，豪杰尚可招诱，急以此时发国内精兵，令田戎据江陵，临江南之会，倚巫山之固，筑垒坚守，传檄吴、楚，长沙以南必随风而靡。
令延岑出汉中，定三辅，天水、陇西拱手自服。
如此，海内震摇，冀有大利。
述以问群臣。
博士吴柱曰： 昔武王伐殷，先观兵孟津，八百诸侯不期同辞，然犹还师以待天命。
未闻无左右之助，而欲出师千里之外，以广封疆者也。
邯曰： 今东帝无尺土之柄，驱乌合之众，跨马陷敌，所向辄平。
不亟乘时与之分功，而坐谈武王之说，是效隗嚣欲为西伯也。 述然邯言，欲悉发北军屯士及山东客兵，使延岑、田戎分出两道，与汉中诸将合兵并势。
translation: 
In this way, the Han Emperor eliminated the worries about Guanlong and was able to carefully plan the Eastern Expedition and divide the world into three parts. It also enabled the heroes of Xizhou to be interested in Shandong and sent She, Ma Yuan and others as envoys to persuade the king. Zun, Zheng Xing, Du Lin, Niu Han, etc. all submitted to Guangwu one after another, so the world would be divided into five points and the Han would have four. If they raised troops to rebel against the Han in Tianshui, they would be defeated. If Tianshui was established, the world would be nine points and the Han would have eight.
Your Majesty, for the land of Liangzhou, must be enshrined in the land of ten thousand chariots internally, and provide supplies to the three armies externally. The burden must be placed on the people. The people will be distressed and unable to bear the orders from above. They will be in danger of collapse from within like Wang Mang.
My stupid plan is to take advantage of the opportunity when the world is not completely in despair and heroes can still be lured, send out the best soldiers in the country, and order Tian Rong to occupy Jiangling, a place where people and things gather in the south of the Yangtze River. Relying on the strength of Wushan, build forts and hold on, and send a message to Chu. The south of Changsha will be invincible with the wind.
Yancen was ordered to leave Hanzhong and appointed as the third assistant. Tianshui and Longxi surrendered.
In this way, the shaking of the sea will be of great benefit to us.
Gongsun Shu asked the officials.
Doctor Wu Zhu said: In the past, when King Wu of Zhou attacked Yin, he first reviewed the troops in Mengjin, and eight hundred princes unanimously supported it. However, King Wu thought that the time was not yet ripe, so he still returned the troops and waited for destiny.
I have never heard of anyone going thousands of miles away to expand their territory without help from the left or right.
Jing Han said: The current Han emperor did not have the authority to rule the land. He drove the mob and killed the enemy on horseback. He was invincible.
If you don't rush to compete with him for the world now, but sit and talk about King Wu's preaching, you are just imitating Wei Xiao and trying to become Xibo. Gongsun Shu agreed with Jing Han's opinion and prepared to mobilize the northern army's garrison soldiers and Shandong guest soldiers, so that Yancen and Tian Rong could divide their troops into two groups and merge their forces with the Hanzhong generals.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
蜀人及其弟光以为不宜空国千里之外，决成败于一举，固争之，述乃上。
延岑、田戎亦数请兵立功，终疑不听。
述性苛细，察于小事。
敢诛杀而不见大体，好改易郡县官名。
然少为郎，习汉家制度，出入法驾，鸾旗旄骑，陈置陛戟，然后辇出房闼。
又立其两子为王，食犍为、广汉各数县。
群臣多谏，以为成败未可知，戎士暴露，而遽王皇子，示无大志，伤战士心。
述不听。
唯公孙氏得任事，由此大臣皆怨。
八年，帝使诸将攻隗嚣，述遣李育将万余人救嚣。
嚣败，并没其军，蜀地闻之恐动。
述惧，欲安众心。
成都郭外有秦时旧仓，述改名白帝仓，自王莽以来常空。
述即诈使人言白帝仓出谷如山陵，百姓空市里往观之。
述乃大会群臣，问曰： 白帝仓竟出谷乎？ 皆对言 无 。
述曰： 讹言不可信，道隗王破者复如此矣。 俄而嚣将王元降，述以为将军。
translation: 
Shu and his younger brother Gongsun Kuang believed that they should not leave the country thousands of miles away and decide success or failure in one fell swoop. They argued resolutely, and Gongsun Shu stopped.
Yancen and Tian Rong also repeatedly invited troops to fight and perform meritorious service, but Gongsun Shu was finally confused and refused to listen.
Gongsun Shuxi was very particular about details and was concerned about trivial matters.
Dare to kill without understanding the general situation, and like to change the official names of counties and counties.
However, when he was young, he worked as a knight and learned the Han system. He imitated the emperor's method of driving in and out, carrying flags and riding horses, setting up halberds, and then driving out of the house.
He also established his second son as king, and established several counties in Shijianwei and Guanghan.
The ministers gave many advices, thinking that success or failure was still unknown, and the army was exposed. They were eager to make their son king, which showed that they had no ambition and dampened the hearts of the soldiers.
Gongsun Shu refused to listen.
Only members of his Gongsun family could be officials and hold power, and the ministers complained endlessly.
In the eighth year, the emperor sent generals to attack Weixiao. Gongsun Shu sent Li Yu and more than 10,000 people to rescue Weixiao.
Wei Xiao failed and Li Yu's army was wiped out. The people of Shu were shocked and horrified when they heard the news.
Gongsun Shu was afraid and wanted to calm everyone down.
There is an old warehouse from the Qin Dynasty outside Guo, Chengdu, which was renamed Baidi warehouse. It has been often empty since Wang Mang's time.
Gongsun Shu then made people falsely claim that the valleys coming out of Baidi Cang were like mountains and mausoleums, and the people went to see it in empty towns.
Shu then gathered the ministers and asked, "Did Baidicang actually come out of the valley?" All the ministers said: No.
Narrated: False rumors cannot be trusted, and the same goes for rumors that Kui Xiao has been shattered. Soon after, Wang Yuan was surrendered to Shu, and he was appointed as general.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
明年，使元与领军环安拒河池，又遣田戎及大司徒任满、南郡太守程汎将兵下江关，破威虏将军冯骏等，拔巫及夷陵、夷道，因据荆门。
十一年，征南大将军岑彭攻之，满等大败，述将王政斩满首降于彭。
田戎走保江州。
城邑皆开门降。彭遂长驱至武阳。
帝及与述书，陈言祸福，以明丹青之信。
述省书叹息，以示所亲太常常少、光禄勋张隆。
降、少皆劝降。
述曰： 废兴命也。
岂有降天子哉！ 左右莫敢复言。
中郎将来歙急攻王元、环安，安使刺客杀歙；述复令刺杀岑彭。
十二年，述弟恢及子婿史兴并为大司马吴汉、辅威将军臧宫所破，战死。
自是将帅恐惧，日夜离叛，述虽诛灭其家，犹不能禁。
帝必欲降之，乃下诏喻述曰： 往年诏书比下，开示恩信，勿以来歙、岑彭受害自疑。
今以时自诣，则家族完全；若迷惑不喻，委肉虎口，痛哉奈何！
将帅疲倦，吏士思归，不乐久相屯守，诏书手记，不可数得，朕不食言。 述终无降意。
translation: 
Next year, Wang Yuan and the leading army Huan'an refused to defend Hechi. They also sent Tian Rong, Da Situ Renman, and Nanjun prefect Cheng Xun to lead their troops down to Jiangguan. They defeated the Hanwei general Feng Jun and others, captured Wu, Yiling, and Yidao, and therefore defended Jingmen.
In the eleventh year, Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, launched an attack. Ren Man and others were defeated. General Wang Zheng beheaded Ren Man and surrendered to Cen Peng.
Tian Rong left to protect Jiangzhou.
All the cities opened their doors and surrendered to Cen Peng, and Cen Peng drove to Wuyang.
Emperor Guangwu wrote a letter to Gongsun Shu, stating the blessings and misfortunes to show that he had no joke.
Gongsun Shu sighed after reading the letter and showed it to his confidants Tai Chang Shao, Guang Luxun and Zhang Long.
Long and Shao both urged Gongsun Shu to surrender.
Gongsun said: The rise and fall are fate.
Where is the emperor who surrenders? People on the left and right did not dare to speak anymore.
Han Zhonglang rushed to Lai She to attack Wang Yuan and Huan'an. Huan'an sent assassins to kill Lai She; Gongsun Shu also ordered Cen Peng to be assassinated.
In the twelfth year, Gongsun Shu's younger brother Gongsun Hui and son-in-law Shi Xing were both attacked by the great Sima Wu Han and the general Zang Gong of Fuwei, and died in battle.
From then on, the general was afraid and rebelled day and night. Although Gongsun Shu killed his entire family, he could not stop him.
Emperor Guangwu wanted Gongsun Shu to surrender, so he issued an edict to inform Gongsun Shu: In previous years, edicts were issued frequently to enlighten and show kindness. Don't doubt yourself because of the harm done to She and Cen Peng.
Now as long as you return as scheduled, you can ensure the integrity of the family; if you are confused and don't realize it, it will be like sending meat into the tiger's mouth, but there is no way to do it!
Your generals are tired, and all the officials want to go home and are unwilling to continue to garrison. There are countless notes in the edict, but I will not break my promise. Gongsun Shu finally had no intention of surrendering.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
九月，吴汉又破斩其大司徒谢丰、执金吾袁吉，汉兵遂守成都。
述谓延岑曰： 事当奈何！ 岑曰： 男儿当死中求生，可坐穷乎！
财物易聚耳，不宜有爱。 述乃悉散金帛，募敢死士五千余人，以配岑于市桥，伪建旗帜，鸣鼓挑战，而潜遣奇兵出吴汉军后，袭击破汉。
汉堕水，缘马尾得出。
十一月，臧宫军至咸门。
述视占书，云 虏死城下 ，大喜，谓汉等当之。
乃自将数万人攻汉，使延岑拒宫。
大战，岑三合三胜。
自旦及日中，军士不得食，并疲，汉因令壮士突之，述兵大乱，被刺洞胸，堕马。
左右舆入城。
述以兵属延岑，其夜死。
明旦，岑降吴汉。
乃夷述妻子，尽灭公孙氏，并族延岑。
遂放兵大掠，焚述宫室。
帝闻之怒，以谴汉。
又让汉副将刘尚曰： 城降三日，吏人从服，孩儿老母，口以万数，一旦放兵纵火，闻之可为酸鼻！
translation: 
In September, Wu Han defeated and beheaded its chief disciple Xie Feng and its chief Jinwu Yuan Ji, and Han troops stationed in Chengdu.
Gongsun Shu said to Yancen: What should we do now? Cen said: A man should survive in death, how can he sit and wait for death?
Wealth is easy to accumulate and should not be grudged. Gongsun Shu took out all the gold and silk and recruited more than 5,000 death squads. They cooperated with Yancen at the city bridge, pretending to raise flags and beating drums to challenge, but secretly sent strange troops to go behind Wu Han's army to attack and defeat Wu Han's army.
Wu Han fell into the water and managed to get out of the water by grabbing the horse's tail.
In November, Zang Gong's army arrived at Xianmen.
Gongsun Shu saw that the divination said: "Capture and die below the city." He was overjoyed and thought that Wu Han and others should die under the city.
So he personally led tens of thousands of people to attack Wu and Han, causing Yancen to reject Zang Palace.
In the big battle, Yancen won three times in three games.
From early morning to noon, the soldiers had no food and were very tired. Wu Han ordered the strong men to attack. Gongsun Shu's soldiers were in chaos. Gongsun Shu was shot in the chest and fell off his horse.
The people on the left and right used cars to rescue Gongsun Shu into the city.
Gongsun Shu handed over his troops to Yancen and died in the evening.
The next morning, Yancen surrendered to Wu Han.
Wu Han then killed Gongsun Shu's wife, killed all the Gongsun clan, and also killed the entire Yancen clan.
He also sent troops to loot and burn Gongsun Shu's palace.
Guangwu got angry when he heard this and condemned Wu Han.
He also ordered Liu Shang, the deputy general of Wu Han, to say: "The city has been surrendered for three days, and all the officials have obeyed. There are tens of thousands of children, mothers, and mothers. Once the troops are set on fire, it will make people's noses sore when they hear it!"


Chunk 24: 
original: 
尚宗室子孙，尝更吏职，何忍行此？
仰视天，俯视地，观放麑啜羹，二者孰仁？
良失斩将吊人之义也！
初，常少、张隆劝述降，不从，并以忧死。
帝下诏追赠少为太常，隆为光禄勋，以礼改葬之。
其忠节志义之士，并蒙旌显。
程乌、李育以有才干，皆擢用之。
于是西土咸悦，莫不归心焉。
论曰：昔赵佗自王番禺，公孙亦窃帝蜀汉，推其无他功能，而至于后亡者，将以地边处远，非王化之所先乎？
述虽为汉吏，无所冯资，徒以文俗自憙，逐能集其志计。
道未足而意有余，不能因隙立功，以会时变，方乃坐饰边幅，以高深自安，昔吴起所以惭魏侯也。
及其谢臣属，审废兴之命，与夫泥首衔玉者异日谈也。
translation: 
The descendants of your clan, Liu Shang, have also experienced official positions. How can they bear to do such a thing?
Looking up at the sky, looking down at the earth, Qin Xiba letting go of the rice to return to his mother or Le Yang sipping the son's soup, which one is more benevolent?
It is a loss of morality to kill generals and hang their people.
At first, Chang Shao and Zhang Long persuaded Gongsun Shu to surrender to the Han Dynasty, but Shu refused. Chang Shao and Zhang Long both died of depression.
Guangwu issued an edict to posthumously confer Chang Shao as Taichang and Zhang Long as Shao Luxun. They were buried in the same ceremony as Taichang and Guang Luxun.
All those who were loyal and upright were commended and honored.
Cheng Wu and Li Yu were both promoted and employed because of their talents.
So all the people in the West were happy, and there was no one who was unwilling to return.
Historians commented: In the past, Zhao Tuo established himself as the king of South Vietnam due to the unrest in the early Han Dynasty. Gongsun Shu also stole the emperor's seat in the Shu Han Dynasty. It is presumed that he had no other functions and only perished in the end. Could it be that he was able to live in a corner because of the remote location?
Although Gongsun Shu was a Han official, he did not have much capital to rely on. He only enjoyed himself in culture and customs, so that he could realize his wishes and strategies.
If the Dao is insufficient but the intention is sufficient, you cannot take advantage of the opportunity to make meritorious deeds to observe the changes of the times. Instead, you should sit on the edge and take comfort in the depth. This is the same as when the Marquis of Wei rejoiced in the solidity of rivers and mountains, and Wu Qi said to him that the country's strength lies in virtue and not in danger.
When he thanked his subordinates and insisted that rise and fall were fate and refused to surrender, he was no longer the same as Sun Haoni, who surrendered to King Xu Rui and Xu Nan, who met Chu Zi with a jade in his head.


