Chunk 0: 
original: 
武帝上高祖武皇帝，讳衍，字叔达，小字练儿，南兰陵中都里人，汉相国何之后也。
何生酂定侯延，延生侍中彪，彪生公府掾章，章生皓，皓生仰，仰生太子太傅望之，望之生光禄大夫育，育生御史中丞绍，绍生光禄勋闳，闳生济阴太守阐，阐生吴郡太守冰，冰生中山相苞，苞生博士周，周生蛇丘长矫，矫生州从事逵，逵生孝廉休，休生广陵郡丞豹，豹生太中大夫裔，裔生淮阴令整，整生济阴太守辖，辖生州治中副子，副子生南台治书道赐，道赐生皇考讳顺之，齐高帝族弟也。
参预佐命，封临湘县侯。
历官侍中，卫尉，太子詹事，领军将军，丹阳尹，赠镇北将军。
高祖以宋孝武大明八年甲辰岁生于秣陵县同夏里三桥宅。
生而有奇异，两胯骈骨，顶上隆起，有文在右手曰 武 。
帝及长，博学多通，好筹略，有文武才干，时流名辈咸推许焉。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu Wu's name was Yan, whose courtesy name was Shuda and whose nickname was Lian'er. He was a native of Zhongduli in Nanlanling and a descendant of Xiao He, the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty.
Xiao He gave birth to Xiao Yan, the Marquis of Fengding, Xiao Yan gave birth to Xiao Biao, Xiao Biao gave birth to Xiao Zhang, the Duke's official, Xiao Zhang gave birth to Xiao Hao, Xiao Hao gave birth to Xiao Yang, Xiao Yang gave birth to the prince Taifu Wangzhi, Wangzhi gave birth to Guanglu doctor Xiao Yu, Xiao Yu gave birth to Xiao Shao, the censor, Xiao Shao gave birth to Guangluxun Xiao Hong, Xiao's boudoir gave birth to Xiao Chan, the prefect of Jiyin, Xiao Chan gave birth to Xiao Bing, the prefect of Wujun. Xiao Bao, the prime minister of Zhongshan, was born in Bing, Xiao Bao was born in doctor Xiao Zhou, Xiao Jiao was born in Xiao Jiao, the chief of Sheqiu, Xiao Kui was born in the state, Xiao Kui was born in Xiao Xiu, Xiao Xiu was born in Xiao Bao, the prime minister of Guangling County, Xiao Bao was born in Xiao Bao, the Taizhong doctor, Xiao Zheng was born in Huaiyin, Xiao Zheng was born in Xiao Ju, the prefect of Jiyin, Xiao Ju was the deputy son of Zhizhong in Nantai, and the deputy son was the son of Nantai Zhizhi. The late father of Emperor Daoci was named Shunzhi, and he was the younger brother of Emperor Qi Gao.
Because he participated in assisting the emperor in starting a business, he was granted the title of Marquis of Linxiang County.
He served successively as a servant, including Prince Wei Zhan Shi, leading general, Danyang Yin, and was given as a gift to General Zhenbei.
Emperor Gaozu was born in the residence of Tongxiali Sanqiao in Moling County in the eighth year of the Ming Dynasty, that is, the Jiachen year of Xiaowu in the Song Dynasty.
He was born strange and abnormal, with two bones connected between his two strands, a protruding top of his head, and a tattoo on his right hand for "Martial".
When the emperor grew up, he was knowledgeable, fond of strategy, and talented in civil and military affairs. He was highly praised by secular people and celebrities.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
所居室常若云气，人或过者，体辄肃然。
起家巴陵王南中郎法曹行参军，迁卫将军王俭东阁祭酒。
俭一见，深相器异，谓庐江何宪曰： 此萧郎三十内当作侍中，出此则贵不可言。
竟陵王子良开西邸，招文学，高祖与沈约、谢朓、王融、萧琛、范云、任昉、陆倕等并游焉，号曰八友。
融俊爽，识鉴过人，尤敬异高祖，每谓所亲曰： 宰制天下，必在此人。
累迁隋王镇西咨议参军，寻以皇考艰去职。
隆昌初，明帝辅政，起高祖为宁朔将军，镇寿春。
服阕，除太子庶子、给事黄门侍郎，入直殿省。
预萧谌等定策勋，封建阳县男，邑三百户。
建武二年，魏遣将刘昶、王肃帅众寇司州，以高祖为冠军将军、军主，隶江州刺史王广为援。
translation: 
The room where I live often seems to be surrounded by clouds and mist, and people who pass by are in awe.
When he first became an official, he was appointed as the king of Baling, Nanzhong Lang, Fa Cao Xing joined the army, and was promoted to the general of the guard.
Wang Jian valued him very much when they first met him, and said to Lu Hongren maggot: "This man will be a poet within thirty years old, and beyond that he will be worthless."
Prince Liang of Jingling set up an official residence in Youpan, attracting learned people. Gaozu, Xuanqu, Xie Tiao, Wang Rong, Xiao Chen, Fan Yun, Ren Fang, Lu Bian and others socialized here, and they were known as the Eight Friends.
Wang Rong was handsome and clear, with extraordinary insight and ability to identify talents. He especially respected Gaozu. He often said to those close to him: The ruler of the world must belong to this person.
Zhenxi, who was repeatedly promoted to follow the king, consulted to join the army, but soon resigned due to mourning for his late father.
In the early years of Longchang, Emperor Ming assisted the government and appointed Gaozu as General Ningshuo to guard Shouchun.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine, the assistant minister of Huangmen, and went on duty in the palace and Taiwan Province.
Because of his participation in Xiao Chen and others' efforts to establish the emperor, he was granted the title of male from Jianyang County and had 300 households living in the city.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, the Northern Wei Dynasty sent generals Liu Chang and Wang Su to lead the army to invade Sizhou. Gaozu was appointed as the champion general and military leader, and Wang Guang, the governor of Jiangzhou, served as reinforcements.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
距义阳百余里，众以魏军盛，趑趄莫敢前。
高祖请为先启，广即分麾下精兵配高祖。
尔夜便进，去魏军数里，迳上贤首山。
魏军不测多少，未敢逼。
黎明，城内见援至，因出军攻魏栅。高祖帅所领自外进战。
魏军表里受敌，乃弃重围退走。
军罢，以高祖为右军晋安王司马、淮陵太守。
还为太子中庶子，领羽林监。
顷之，出镇石头。
四年，魏帝自率大众寇雍州，明帝令高祖赴援。
十月，至襄阳。诏又遣左民尚书崔慧景总督诸军，高祖及雍州刺史曹虎等并受节度。
明年三月，慧景与高祖进行邓城，魏主帅十万余骑奄至。
慧景失色，欲引退，高祖固止之，不从，乃狼狈自拔。
魏骑乘之，于是大败。
高祖独帅众距战，杀数十百人，魏骑稍却，因得结阵断后，至夕得下船。
慧景军死伤略尽，惟高祖全师而归。
俄以高祖行雍州府事。
七月，仍授持节、都督雍梁南北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事、辅国将军、雍州刺史。
其月，明帝崩，东昏即位，扬州刺史始安王遥光、尚书令徐孝嗣、尚书右仆射江祏、右将军萧坦之、侍中江祀、卫尉刘暄更直内省，分日帖敕。
高祖闻之，谓从舅张弘策曰： 政出多门，乱其阶矣。
translation: 
When they were more than a hundred miles away from Yiyang, everyone was afraid and hesitant because of the strong army of the Northern Wei Dynasty. No one dared to march.
Gaozu asked for orders to go ahead, and Wang Guang assigned his elite troops to serve Gaozu.
That night, he marched forward. When he was a few miles away from the Northern Wei army, he went straight to Xianshou Mountain.
The Northern Wei army did not know how many troops came and did not dare to approach.
At dawn, the people in the city saw reinforcements arriving, so the army went out of the city to attack the camp gate of the Northern Wei army. The troops led by Emperor Gaozu attacked from outside.
The troops of the Northern Wei Dynasty were attacked both internally and externally, so they abandoned the siege and withdrew.
After the battle, Gaozu was appointed as Sima, King of Jin'an, and Grand Administrator of Huailing in the right army.
After returning, he served as the crown prince's concubine and led the Yulin Supervisor.
Soon, he went out to guard the stone.
In the fourth year, Emperor Wei personally led an army to invade Yongzhou, and Emperor Ming ordered Zhidan to go to the rescue.
In October, when they arrived at Xiangyang, they were ordered to send Zuo Min Shangshu Cui Huijing to lead the army. Gaozu and Yongzhou governor Cao Hu were all under his control.
In March of the following year, Huijing and Gaozu marched to Dengcheng, and Commander Wei suddenly arrived with more than 100,000 cavalry.
Jiang Jing became panicked and planned to retreat, but Gaozu resolutely stopped him and refused to obey, so he hurriedly withdrew.
The cavalry of the Northern Wei Dynasty took the opportunity to attack him and was defeated.
Only Emperor Gaozu led his army to resist and killed nearly a hundred enemies. The cavalry of the Northern Wei Dynasty retreated slightly, so they were able to form a formation and break off, and they were not able to disembark until evening.
Huijing's army was almost exhausted, and only Gaozu returned with his army intact.
Soon Gaozu was appointed to conduct affairs in Yongzhou.
In July, he was still appointed as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the four prefectures of Yongliang, North and South Qin, Yingzhou, Jingling and Sizhou, all military affairs, general of the auxiliary country, and governor of Yongzhou.
In the first month of dispatch, Emperor Ming passed away and ascended the throne in the early evening. Yangzhou governor Shi'an Wang Yaoguang, Shangshu Ling Xu Xiaosi, Shangshu Youpu Jiji, General Shi Xiao Tanzhi, Shi Zhongjiang Si, and Wei Wei Liu Xuan took turns to be on duty in the palace, signing their opinions on memorials every day as imperial orders.
After Emperor Gaozu heard about it, he said to his mother's uncle and brother Zhang Hongce: The administration of government comes from multiple families, which is the cause of trouble.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
《诗》云： 一国三公，吾谁适从？
况今有六，而可得乎！
嫌隙若成，方相诛灭，当今避祸，惟有此地。
勤行仁义，可坐作西伯。
但诸弟在都，恐罹世患，须与益州图之耳。
时高祖长兄懿罢益州还，仍行郢州事，乃使弘策诣郢，陈计于懿曰： 昔晋惠庸主，诸王争权，遂内难九兴，外寇三作。
今六贵争权，人握王宪，制主画敕，各欲专威，睚眦成憾，理相屠灭。
且嗣主在东宫本无令誉，媟近左右，蜂目忍人，一总万机，恣其所欲，岂肯虚坐主诺，委政朝臣。
积相嫌贰，必大诛戮。
始安欲为赵伦，形迹已见，蹇人上天，信无此理。
且性甚猜狭，徒取乱机。
所可当轴，惟有江、刘而已。
祏怯而无断，暄弱而不才，折鼎覆餗，翘足可待。
萧坦之胸怀猜忌，动言相伤，徐孝嗣才非柱石，听人穿鼻，若隙开衅起，必中外土崩。
今得守外籓，幸图身计，智者见机，不俟终日。
及今猜防未生，宜召诸弟以时聚集。
后相防疑，拔足无路。
translation: 
The Book of Songs says: There are three princes in power in a country. Whose do we obey?
What's more, there are six people in power now, how can it be possible?
If a grudge is formed, they will kill each other. Now there is only one place to avoid disaster.
If you diligently practice benevolence and righteousness, you can naturally become Xibo.
It's just that my brothers are in Kyoto and may encounter troubles in the world, so they need to plan this matter with Yizhou.
At that time, Xiao Yi, the eldest brother of Emperor Gaozu, returned from his dismissal from Yizhou and went on to engage in affairs in Yingzhou. So he sent Hongce to Yingzhou and stated his strategy to Xiao Yi: In the past, Jin Hui was a fatuous master, and kings competed for power. As a result, internal troubles arose nine times and foreign invaders were attracted three times.
Now six dignitaries are vying for power. Each controls the king's law and controls the monarch's signature on official documents. Each wants to dominate the power, and even the smallest grievances are enmity, and they will kill each other as expected.
Moreover, when the succeeding monarch was in the East Palace, he did not have a good reputation. He was intimate with those around him, was cruel to others, and the prime minister would indulge his desires. How could he be willing to occupy the throne in vain and only express his consent and entrust government affairs to the court ministers?
As mutual suspicion accumulates over time, great killings will surely occur.
Shi'an wants to become Tailun, and the signs have been revealed. There is really no such reason for a lame person to ascend to heaven.
What's more, if you are very jealous and narrow-minded by nature, you will only bring trouble to yourself.
The only people who want to be in power are Jiang Zhe and Liu Xuan.
Jiang Zhe is cowardly and indecisive, Liu Xuan is weak and incapable, and his lack of strength and heavy responsibility will lead to failure.
Xiao Tanzhi is jealous and hurts others with his words. Xu Xiaosi's talents are not the backbone and can be manipulated by others. If conflicts intensify and chaos arises, things will surely fall apart internally and externally.
Now that I can guard the outer vassal, I am lucky enough to find a way to settle down. A wise person can foresee the omens from the subtle changes in things, and it does not take long.
While suspicion and prevention have not yet become widespread, we should summon all the younger brothers to gather in time.
If you take precautions later, there will be no way to escape.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
郢州控带荆、湘，西注汉、沔；雍州士马，呼吸数万，虎视其间，以观天下。
世治则竭诚本朝，时乱则为国剪暴，可得与时进退，此盖万全之策。
如不早图，悔无及也。
懿闻之变色，心弗之许。
弘策还，高祖乃启迎弟伟及憺。是岁至襄阳。
于是潜造器械，多伐竹木，沉于檀溪，密为舟装之备。
时所住斋常有五色回转，状若蟠龙，其上紫气腾起，形如伞盖，望者莫不异焉。
永元二年冬，懿被害。信至，高祖密召长史王茂、中兵吕僧珍、别驾柳庆远、功曹史吉士瞻等谋之。
既定，以十一月乙巳召僚佐集于厅事，谓曰： 昔武王会孟津，皆曰 纣可伐 。今昏主恶稔，穷虐极暴，诛戮朝贤，罕有遗育，生民涂炭，天命殛之。
translation: 
Yingzhou surrounds Jingzhou and Xiangzhou, and flows into Moshui and Mianshui to the west. Yongzhou has tens of thousands of soldiers and horses, and among them are tigers and cypresses to observe the world.
When the era is peaceful and the society is stable, you should be loyal to your dynasty. When the current situation is in chaos, you can cut off violence for the country. You can move forward and retreat freely with the changes of the world. Dismissal is a safe strategy.
If you didn't plan it earlier, you would regret it.
Xiao Jing's expression changed after hearing this, but he didn't agree with it.
After Hongce came back, Gaozu set out to meet his younger brothers Xiao Wei and Xiao Dan, and arrived in Xiangyang in the first year of his life.
So they secretly manufactured military equipment, cut down large quantities of bamboo, and sank it in Tanxi River, secretly using it as spare materials for building ships.
The houses they lived in at that time were often surrounded by five colors of green, red, white, black and yellow, and the shape was like a coiled dragon, with purple air rising from it, and the shape was like an umbrella cover. Everyone who saw it found it strange.
In the winter of the second year of Yongyuan, news of Xiao Yi's murder came. Emperor Gaozu secretly summoned Chang Shi Wang Mao, Zhongbing Lu Sengzhen, Biejia Liu Qingyuan, Gong Cao Shi Ji Shizhan and others to plan.
After the plan was made, in November, Yisi summoned his staff in the official hall and told them: In the past, King Wu held an alliance in Mengjin and said that Yin Zhou could be conquered. Now the fatuous monarch is full of evil, doing his best to commit extreme cruelty, killing the virtuous officials of the court, leaving few descendants, and making the people miserable. It is God's will to kill him.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
卿等同心疾恶，共兴义举，公侯将相，良在兹日，各尽勋效，我不食言。
是日建牙。
于是收集得甲士万余人，马千余匹，船三千艘，出檀溪竹木装舰。
先是，东昏以刘山阳为巴西太守，配精兵三千，使过荆州就行事萧颖胄以袭襄阳。
高祖知其谋，乃遣参军王天虎、庞庆国诣江陵，遍与州府书。
及山阳西上，高祖谓诸将曰： 荆州本畏襄阳人，加脣亡齿寒，自有伤弦之急，宁不暗同邪？
我若总荆、雍之兵，扫定东夏，韩、白重出，不能为计。
况以无算之昏主，役御刀应敕之徒哉？
我能使山阳至荆，便即授首，诸君试观何如。
及山阳至巴陵，高祖复令天虎赍书与颖胄兄弟。
去后，高祖谓张弘策曰： 夫用兵之道，攻心为上，攻城次之，心战为上，兵战次之，今日是也。
近遣天虎往州府，人皆有书。
translation: 
You must unite to hate evil, work together for righteousness, and obtain the status of princes, generals and ministers. It is indeed on this day that you can do your best. I will never break my promise.
Send one day to set up the banner of uprising.
So he recruited and gathered more than 10,000 armored soldiers, more than 1,000 war horses, and 3,000 ships. They built warships out of bamboo and wood in Tanxi River.
Previously, Donghun appointed Liu Shanyang as the governor of Brazil, equipped with 3,000 elite soldiers, and sent him to Jingzhou to attack Xiangyang with Xiao Yingzhou accompanying him.
Emperor Gaozu knew of their plan, so he sent soldiers Wang Tianhu and Pang Qingguo to Jiangling to write to all states.
When they were heading west from Shanyang, Emperor Gaozu said to the generals: Jingzhou was originally afraid of the Xiangyang people, and because of the cold lips and teeth, it felt like a bird with a wounded bow. Wouldn't they secretly agree with me?
If I unite the troops of Jingzhou and Yongzhou, sweep and pacify Shuxia, even if Han Xin and Bai Qi are reincarnated, they will not be able to do anything to me.
What's more, what about the group of servants who are used by the incomparable and foolish Lord to convey his will?
I can send Shan Yang to Jingzhou and he will be killed immediately. You guys can try and see what happens.
When Shanyang arrived at Baling, Emperor Gaozu once again ordered Tianhu to bring a letter to Yingzhou brothers.
After he left, Emperor Gaozu said to Zhang Hongce: The best way to use military force is to attack the heart. Siege is second, psychological warfare is the top priority, and fighting between two soldiers is the second priority. This is what happened today.
Not long ago, Tianhu was sent to the state capital, and everyone got letters.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今段乘驿甚急，止有两封与行事兄弟，云 天虎口具 ；及问天虎而口无所说，行事不得相闻，不容妄有所道。
天虎是行事心膂，彼闻必谓行事与天虎共隐其事，则人人生疑。
山阳惑于众口，判相嫌贰，则行事进退无以自明，必漏吾谋内。
是驰两空函定一州矣。
山阳至江安，闻之，果疑不上。
颖胄大惧，乃斩天虎，送首山阳。
山阳信之，将数十人驰入，颖胄伏甲斩之，送首高祖。
仍以南康王尊号之议来告，且曰： 时月未利，当须来年二月；遽便进兵，恐非庙算。
高祖答曰： 今坐甲十万，粮用自竭，况所藉义心，一时骁锐，事事相接，犹恐疑怠；若顿兵十旬，必生悔吝。
童儿立异，便大事不成。
今太白出西方，仗义而动，天时人谋，有何不利？
处分已定，安可中息？
translation: 
This time the post horse trip was very urgent, and there were only two letters to the acting brothers, saying that Tianhu would state it face to face. When asked about it, Tianhu had nothing to say. The acting brother could not know anything, and he was not allowed to talk nonsense.
Tianhu was Xingxing's most capable confidant. After hearing this, he must have thought that Xingxing and Tianhu were hiding something together, so everyone became suspicious.
Shan Yang was deceived by everyone's words and became suspicious of them, so he couldn't make his own progress and retreat, and he was bound to fall into my plan.
This is sending two empty letters to decide the fate of a state.
When Shanyang arrived in Jiang'an and learned of this situation, he was indeed suspicious of going west.
Yingzhou was very frightened, so he killed Tianhu and gave his head to Shanyang.
Shan Yang believed him and rode in with dozens of people. Ying Zhou ambushed the soldiers, beheaded him, and gave his head to Gaozu.
He also reported his plan to honor King Nankang as emperor, and said: "The time is unfavorable, we should wait until February of the next year; if we march in a hurry."
I'm afraid it's not the emperor's plan for the war. Emperor Gaozu replied: Nowadays, there are 100,000 soldiers in armor waiting for the enemy, and the military supplies of food and grass will soon be exhausted. Moreover, the moral heart based on it is a moment of bravery and sharpness. As time goes by, many things happen, but we are still afraid of suspicion and slackness. If we camp for a hundred days, we will definitely regret.
If children deviate, great things will not succeed.
Now that Taibai Star appears in the West, he acts based on morality and has destiny and plans. What's the disadvantage?
The plan has been decided, how can it be stopped midway?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔武王伐纣，行逆太岁，复须待年月乎？
竟陵太守曹景宗遣杜思冲劝高祖迎南康王都襄阳，待正尊号，然后进军。高祖不从。
王茂又私于张弘策曰： 我奉事节下，义无进退，然今者以南康置人手中，彼便挟天子以令诸侯，而节下前去为人所使，此岂岁寒之计？
弘策言之，高祖曰： 若使前途大事不捷，故自兰艾同焚；若功业克建，威慑四海，号令天下，谁敢不从！
岂是碌碌受人处分？
待至石城，当面晓王茂、曹景宗也。
于沔南立新野郡，以集新附。
三年二月，南康王为相国，以高祖为征东将军，给鼓吹一部。
戊申，高祖发襄阳。
留弟伟守襄阳城，总州府事，弟憺守垒城，府司马庄丘黑守樊城，功曹史吉士询兼长史，白马戍主黄嗣祖兼司马，鄀令杜永兼别驾，小府录事郭俨知转漕。
translation: 
In the past, King Wu's campaign against Yin Zhou was contrary to Tai Sui's actions. How long do we have to wait?
Cao Jingzong, the prefect of Jingling, sent Du Sichong to persuade Gaozu to welcome King Nankang and build his capital in Xiangbao. After Zheng Zheng confirmed the throne, he then marched, but Gaozu did not listen.
Wang Mao said to Zhang Hongce privately: I serve Jiexia without any hesitation; however, now that Nankang is in the hands of others, others can use the emperor to command the princes, and Jiexia will be ordered around by others. Is this a plan for troubled times?
Hongce told Gaozu about the affair, and Chanzu said: If the great things in the future are not successful, the good and the bad will perish together; if the achievements can be completed, the world will be intimidated, and the world will be commanded, who dares to disobey!
Which Xiang is mediocre and incapable of being manipulated?
When they arrive at Shicheng, they will tell Wang Mao and Cao Jingzong face to face.
Xinye County was established south of Mianshui to gather the newly converted people.
In February of the third year, King Nankang belonged to the Xiangguo, and he appointed Gaozu as the general of Zhengsu, and assigned him to the propaganda department.
Wushen, Emperor Gaozu set out from Xiangyang.
His younger brother Xiao Wei was left to guard Xiangyang City and manage the affairs of the state government, his younger brother Xiao Dan was to guard Licheng, Sima Zhuang Qiuhei was to guard Fan City, Shi Jishixun, the meritorious officer, was also the chief historian, Huang Sizu, the leader of the White Horse garrison, was also the Sima, Du Yong, the county magistrate, was also in charge of farewell, and Guo Yan, the green minister of the Xiaofu, was in charge of transferring food and wages.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
移檄京邑曰：夫道不常夷，时无永化，险泰相沿，晦明非一，皆屯困而后亨，资多难以启圣。
故昌邑悖德，孝宣聿兴，海西乱政，简文升历，并拓绪开基，绍隆宝命，理验前经，事昭往策。
独夫扰乱天常，毁弃君德，奸回淫纵，岁月滋甚。
挺虐于剪之年，植险于髫丱之日。猜忌凶毒，触途而著，暴戾昏荒，与事而发。
自大行告渐，喜容前见，梓宫在殡，靦无哀色，欢娱游宴，有过平常，奇服异衣，更极夸丽。
至于选采妃嫔，姊妹无别，招侍巾栉，姑侄莫辨，掖庭有稗贩之名，姬姜被干殳之服。
至乃形体宣露，亵衣颠倒，斩斫其间，以为欢笑。
translation: 
A message was issued to Kyoto: The road will not always be leveled, and the world will not be permanently peaceful. Danger and obstacles will attack each other, and the light and darkness are not the same. They all experience hardships and embarrassments and then gain success. Too much support will make it difficult to become a saint.
Therefore, Changyi's betrayal of virtue, the rise of Xiaoxuan, the chaos in Haixi, and the promotion of Jianwen all expanded the career of the ancestors and established the foundation, inheriting and carrying forward the mission of God. These principles are fulfilled in the previous classics, and the deeds are evident in the Jian policies of the past.
The cruel and unprincipled rulers, who rebelled against their relatives and relatives, disturbed the general ethics and destroyed the king's virtues. The evil and eccentric people indulged in lust and indulgence, which became more and more serious as time went by.
A cruel quality was blended into him when he was a child, and a sinister character was implanted in him at an early age. Suspicion and viciousness are evident everywhere, and violence and confusion arise when trouble arises.
When the newly deceased emperor was told that he was critically ill, he showed a look of joy early on. Before the emperor's coffin was buried, there was no sadness on his face. He entertained, played and feasted more happily than usual, dressed up in strange clothes, and became even more beautiful and gorgeous.
As for the selection of concubines, the sisters are the same, the toiletries used for entertaining are not distinguished by aunt and nephew, the place where the concubines live has the name of a merchant, and the beautiful women are dressed in military uniforms.
As for physical nudity. Wear underwear outside and kill them in between, as a way of making fun of you.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
骋肆淫放，驱屏郊邑。
老弱波流，士女涂炭。
行产盈路，舆尸竟道，母不及抱，子不遑哭。
劫掠剽虏，以日继夜。昼伏宵游，曾无休息。
淫酗摐肆，酣歌垆邸。
宠恣愚竖，乱惑妖甗。
梅虫儿、茹法珍臧获斯小，专制威柄，诛剪忠良，屠灭卿宰。
刘镇军舅氏之尊，尽忠奉国；江仆射外戚之重，竭诚事上；萧领军葭莩之宗，志存柱石；徐司空、沈仆射搢绅冠冕，人望攸归。
或《渭阳》余感，或勋庸允穆，或诚著艰难，或劬劳王室，并受遗托，同参顾命，送往事居，俱竭心力。
宜其庆溢当年，祚隆后裔；而一朝齑粉，孩稚无遗。
人神怨结，行路嗟愤。
萧令君忠公干伐，诚贯幽显。
translation: 
Unbridled and licentious, they were driven out and abandoned in the countryside.
The old and the weak are homeless, and the gentlemen and women are in trouble.
The roads are filled with childbirths, and the roads are full of corpses. Mothers have no time to hold them, and their children have no time to cry.
Robbery and plundering continued day and night. Traveling day and night, never resting.
Drinking and debauchery, singing in the hotel.
Favoring a villain who is indulgent and stupid, and a treacherous official who is confused and confused by evil.
Mei Chong'er and Ru Fazhen were slaves and servants, they were arbitrary and authoritative, eliminated the loyal and good, and massacred the ministers.
Liu Zhenjun has the respect of an uncle and serves the country with all his heart; Jiang Pushe has the respect of a foreign relative and is devoted to his work; Xiao Lingjun is a distant relative of the same clan and aspires to be worthy of important national responsibilities; Xu Sikong and Shen Pushe are the families of officials and are respected by everyone.
Some were nephews and uncles, some were honest and meritorious, some were loyal in times of hardship, and some worked hard for the royal family. They were all entrusted by Shao Shao to participate in the national affairs handed over by the emperor on his deathbed, sacrifice the dead monarch, serve the newly established emperor, and work together to do their best.
It should have been full of blessings at that time, and good fortune extended to future generations; but it was destroyed for a while, and no children were left.
The grievances between man and God are stagnant, and passers-by sigh with hatred.
Xiao Lingjun established his meritorious service with loyalty and integrity, and his integrity connects the two realms of Yin and Yang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
往年寇贼游魂，南郑危逼，拔刃飞泉，孤城独振。
及中流逆命，凭陵京邑，谋猷禁省，指授群帅，克剪鲸鲵，清我王度。
崔慧景奇锋迅骇，兵交象魏，武力丧魂，义夫夺胆，投名送款，比屋交驰，负粮影从，愚智竞赴。
复誓旅江甸，奋不顾身，奖厉义徒，电掩强敌，克歼大憝，以固皇基。
功出桓、文，勋超伊、吕；而劳谦省己，事昭心迹，功遂身退，不祈荣满。
敦赏未闻，祸酷遄及，预禀精灵，孰不冤痛！
而群孽放命，蜂虿怀毒，乃遣刘山阳驱扇逋逃，招逼亡命，潜图密构，规见掩袭。
萧右军、夏侯征虏忠断夙举，义形于色，奇谋宏振，应手枭悬，天道祸淫，罪不容戮。
至于悖礼违教，伤化虐人，射天弹路，比之犹善，刳胎斫胫，方之非酷，尽珝县之竹，未足纪其过，穷山泽之兔，不能书其罪。
自草昧以来，图牒所记，昏君暴后，未有若斯之甚者也。
translation: 
In the past, bandits wandered around like ghosts. When Nanzheng was in danger, he drew his sword and stabbed the mountain, and flying springs gushed out, making the isolated city vigorous.
When he went to the middle reaches of the Yangtze River to disobey orders and invade the capital, he planned the imperial palace and instructed the generals to eliminate the fierce enemies and clear up my king's laws.
Cui Huijing's surprise attack on the enemy's vanguard was astonishingly fast. They fought in the palace. The soldiers lost their souls and the righteous men took their courage. They handed over famous invitations to surrender. Households rushed to and from each other, carrying food on their backs, and fools and wise men rushed to go.
He also swore an oath to the south of the Yangtze River, worked hard without caring about his own life, and rewarded the volunteers to encourage them to attack powerful enemies like lightning and eliminate the culprits, so as to consolidate the emperor's foundation.
His merits are higher than that of Qi Huan and Jin Wen, and his meritorious service exceeds that of Yi Yin and Lu Shang. However, he is diligent, humble and self-reflective.
I haven't heard of any commendation or reward, but instead a disaster has quickly struck me. I asked the gods to report it, who wouldn't feel wronged and grieved for it!
Moreover, the evildoers disobeyed orders and were evil-minded. They sent Liu Shanyang to encourage and incite the fleeing criminals, and recruited intimidating desperadoes to secretly plot and plan a surprise attack.
Xiao Youjun and Xiahou were loyal and decisive in conquering prisoners. Their justice appeared on their faces and their ingenuity was greatly promoted. They were beheaded and hung in public for public display. Excessive sexual immorality would bring disaster from heaven. Those who were not tolerant of sin should be killed.
As for violating ethics and teachings, harming education and abusing the people, shooting gods in the sky and ambushing passers-by, it is better than this; dissecting the fetuses of pregnant women and cutting off people's gallbladders is not cruel, and using up all the bamboos in the world is not enough to describe his fault; using up all the rabbits in the mountains and wild fields is not enough to write down his crime.
Since the beginning of ignorance, there has been no such powerful tyrant as recorded in books.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
既人神乏主，宗稷阽危，海内沸腾，氓庶板荡，百姓懔懔，如崩厥角，苍生喁喁，投足无地。
幕府荷眷前朝，义均休戚，上怀委付之重，下惟在原之痛，岂可卧薪引火，坐观倾覆！
至尊体自高宗，特钟慈宠，明并日月，粹昭灵神，祥启元龟，符验当璧，作镇陕籓，化流西夏，讴歌攸奉，万有乐推。
右军萧颖胄、征虏将军夏侯详并同心翼戴，即宫旧楚，三灵再朗，九县更新，升平之运，此焉复始，康哉之盛，在乎兹日。
然帝德虽彰，区宇未定，元恶未黜，天邑犹梗。
仰禀宸规，率前启路。
即日遣冠军、竟陵内史曹景宗等二十军主，长槊五万，骥騄为群，鹗视争先，龙骧并驱，步出横江，直指硃雀。
translation: 
Since there is no master in the ecstasy, the ancestral temple and the country are in danger, the sea is boiling with resentment, the people are in turmoil, and the people are afraid, just like an animal whose horns are broken, the people look up and expect, and there is no place to invest.
The shogunate has been favored by the previous dynasty, and we should share weal and woe. We bear the heavy responsibility entrusted to us at the top, and the grief of our brothers at the bottom. How can we lie down on firewood to ignite the fire, and sit back and watch the overthrow!
The emperor came from Gaozong, and was especially devoted to love and grace. His brightness was as bright as the sun and moon, and his purity shone brightly to the gods. The auspicious start of the big turtle is in line with the signs of becoming a king. It guards the Shaanxi region, spreads virtues to Xixia, sings and offers sacrifices, and the people are happy to support it.
Xiao Yingzhou of the right army and Xia Houxiang, the general who conquered the captives, all supported him and built a palace in the former Chu land. The world and people became clear again, the Kyushu was renewed, and the fate of the country was peaceful and peaceful, and the peaceful and prosperous age began at this time.
However, despite the emperor's benevolence, the world is still uncertain, the culprit has not been eliminated, and the road to Kyoto is still blocked.
He followed the emperor's strategy and led his troops forward to clear the way.
Twenty military leaders including Cao Jingzong, the champion of the Tianpai and the internal historian of Jingling, and fifty thousand men were in command. There were groups of good horses. Warriors competed for the lead. The horses drove together and stepped out of the Hengjiang River, pointing directly at the Suzaku.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
长史、冠军将军、襄阳太守王茂等三十军主，戈船七万，乘流电激，推锋扼险，斜趣白城。
南中郎谘议参军、军主萧伟等三十九军主，巨舰迅楫，冲波噎水，旗鼓八万，焱集石头。
南中郎谘议参军、军主萧憺等四十二军主，熊罴之士，甲楯十万，沿波驰艓，掩据新亭。
益州刺史刘季连、梁州刺史柳惔、司州刺史王僧景、魏兴太守裴帅仁、上庸太守韦睿、新城太守崔僧季，并肃奉明诏，龚行天罚。
蜀、汉果锐，沿流而下；淮、汝劲勇，望波遄骛。
幕府总率貔貅，骁勇百万，缮甲燕弧，屯兵冀马，摐金沸地，鸣鞞聒天，霜锋曜日，硃旗绛珝，方舟千里，骆驿系进。
萧右军訏谟上才，兼资文武，英略峻远，执钧匡世。
拥荆南之众，督四方之师，宣赞中权，奉卫舆辇。
旍麾所指，威棱无外，龙骧虎步，并集建业。
黜放愚狡，均礼海昏，廓清神甸，扫定京宇。
譬犹崩泰山而压蚁壤，决悬河而注熛烬，岂有不殄灭者哉！
今资斧所加，止梅虫儿、茹法珍而已。
诸君咸世胄羽仪，书勋王府，皆俯眉奸党，受制凶威。
translation: 
Thirty military leaders, including Chang Shi, General Champion, and Xiangyang Governor Wang Mao, and 70,000 barge boats, went down the river like lightning to attack, advancing to control the dangerous points and heading diagonally toward Baicheng.
Nan Zhonglang consulted the thirty-nine army leaders who joined the army, including Xiao Wei, the army leader. The giant shoes were driving fast, cutting through the waves, with eighty thousand flags and drums, and quickly gathered stones.
Nan Zhonglang consulted the army, and forty-two military leaders including Xiao Dan, the leader of the army, and a hundred thousand soldiers in armor and shields, sailed down the river and raided the new pavilion.
Liu Jilian, the governor of Yizhou, Liu Tan, the governor of Liangzhou, Wang Sengjing, the governor of Sizhou, Pei Shiren, the governor of Wei Xing, Wei He, the governor of Shangyong, and Cui Sengji, the governor of Xincheng, all respected the wise Shao order and punished according to the decree of heaven.
The brave and elite troops from Shu County and the desert went down the river; the tenacious and brave men from the Huaihe and Ru River basins galloped towards the waves.
The shogunate commanded a brave army, millions of brave men, prepared weapons and good bows, stationed troops and horses, shook the ground with gold, beat the drums to the sky, made the sun shine brightly, and dyed the sky and earth red with red flags. The arks stretched for thousands of miles, and they marched continuously one after another.
Xiao Youjun has the superior ability to formulate far-reaching and grand plans, is both civil and military, has a wise and lofty strategy, and wields power to save the world.
With the people in Jingnan, he can supervise and lead the troops from all directions, promote the patronage center, serve and defend the emperor.
The commander-in-chief's flag points to an infinite power, holding his head high and gathering together to build a successful business.
He deposed and exiled the stupid and cunning villains, paid tribute to Haihun, purged the suburbs of Beijing, and pacified the capital.
Just like the collapse of a mountain and the collapse of an ant's nest, or the collapse of a river and the ashes of a fire, there is nothing that cannot be destroyed!
The only ones being killed now are Mei Chong'er and Ru Fazhen.
You are all children of aristocratic families who hold high positions and serve as role models, with meritorious deeds that have graced the palace. However, you have all bowed your heads to the traitors and been controlled by vicious and lustful forces.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
若能因变立功，转祸为福，并誓河、岳，永纡青紫。
若执迷不悟，距逆王师，大众一临，刑兹罔赦，所谓火烈高原，芝兰同泯。
勉求多福，无贻后悔。
赏罚之科，有如白水。
高祖至竟陵，命长史王茂与太守曹景宗为前军，中兵参军张法安守竟陵城。
茂等至汉口，轻兵济江，逼郢城。
其刺史张冲置阵据石桥浦，义师与战不利，军主硃僧起死之。
诸将议欲并军围郢，分兵以袭西阳、武昌。
高祖曰： 汉口不阔一里，箭道交至，房僧寄以重兵固守，为郢城人掎角。
若悉众前进，贼必绝我军后，一朝为阻，则悔无所及。
今欲遣王、曹诸军济江，与荆州军相会，以逼贼垒。
吾自后围鲁山，以通沔、汉。
translation: 
If you can adapt to the changes of the times and make meritorious deeds, turn misfortunes into blessings, and jointly swear an oath to the Yellow River and the Five Mountains, you can enjoy a noble status forever.
If you persist in your stubbornness and disobey the king's master, when the army arrives, you will be punished without mercy, which is what is said to burn the plateau. Zhi, orchid and other herbs disappeared together.
Work hard to be blessed and don’t leave any regrets.
The laws of reward and punishment are like those set by the river.
Keep your oath unwaveringly. When Emperor Gaozu arrived at Jingling, he ordered the chief historian Wang Mao and the prefect Cao Jingzong to be the vanguard, and the Chinese soldiers joined Zhang Fa'an to guard Jingling City.
Wang Mao and others arrived at Hankou, and the troops crossed the Yangtze River lightly and advanced to Yingcheng.
The governor Zhang Chong set up a formation to defend Shiqiaopu, but the battle with Yi Shiyu was unfavorable, and the military leader Zhu Sengqi died in the battle.
The generals conspired to surround Yingcheng with a joint force, and sent troops to attack Xiyang and Wuchang.
Emperor Gaozu said: Hankou is only one mile long, and there are many places for practicing archery. The monks sent heavy troops to guard it, and they echoed each other with the people of Yingcheng.
If all the troops advance together, the enemy thieves will definitely cut off our army's retreat, and we will regret it if we are blocked.
Now we will send Wang Mao and Cao Jingzong's troops across the Yangtze River to join the troops in Jingzhou to attack the enemy's camp.
I surrounded Mount Lu from behind to ensure the smooth flow of the Mian River and Han River.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
郧城、竟陵间粟，方舟而下；江陵、湘中之兵，连旗继至。
粮食既足，士众稍多，围守两城，不攻自拔，天下之事，卧取之耳。
诸将皆曰 善 。
乃命王茂、曹景宗帅众济岸，进顿九里。
其日，张冲出军迎战，茂等邀击，大破之，皆弃甲奔走。
荆州遣冠军将军邓元起、军主王世兴、田安等数千人，会大军于夏首。
高祖筑汉口城以守鲁山，命水军主张惠绍、硃思远等游遏江中，绝郢、鲁二城信使。
三月，乃命元起进据南堂西陼，田安之顿城北，王世兴顿曲水故城。
是时张冲死，其众复推军主薛元嗣及冲长史程茂为主。
乙巳，南康王即帝位于江陵，改永元三年为中兴元年，遥废东昏为涪陵王。
以高祖为尚书左仆射，加征东大将军、都督征讨诸军事，假黄钺。
西台又遣冠军将军萧颖达领兵会于军。
是日，元嗣军主沈难当率轻舸数千，乱流来战，张惠绍等击破，尽擒之。
四月，高祖出沔，命王茂、萧颖达等进军逼郢城。
元嗣战颇疲，因不敢出。
诸将欲攻之，高祖不许。
五月，东昏遣宁朔将军吴子阳、军主光子衿等十三军救郢州，进据巴口。
六月，西台遣卫尉席阐文劳军，赍萧颖胄等议，谓高祖曰： 今顿兵两岸，不并军围郢，定西阳、武昌，取江州，此机已失；莫若请救于魏，与北连和，犹为上策。
高祖谓阐文曰： 汉口路通荆、雍，控引秦、梁，粮运资储，听此气息，所以兵压汉口，连络数州。
translation: 
The tax millet collected between Yuncheng and Jingling can be loaded into two boats side by side and sent down the river; the soldiers from Jiangling and Xiangzhong can arrive immediately with flags connected in a mighty manner.
Food is sufficient, and the army is increasing. The two cities are surrounded, and they will be destroyed without attack. The affairs of the world can be obtained by lying down.
All the generals said yes.
So Wang Mao and Cao Jingzong were ordered to lead their troops to the other side and stationed at Jiuli.
That day, Zhang Chong marched out to fight. Wang Mao and others stopped him and defeated him. The enemy and thieves abandoned their armor and fled.
Jingzhou sent champion general Deng Yuanqi, military leaders Wang Shixing, Tian An and other thousands of people to meet the army at the beginning of Xia.
Emperor Gaozu built the city of Hankou to defend Lushan, and ordered the navy to advocate Hui Shao, Zhu Siyuan and others to swim in the river to intercept them, and banned messengers from Yingcheng and Lushan.
In March, Yuan Qi was ordered to march and occupy the west side of Nantang, Tian Anzhi was stationed in the north of the city, and Wang Shixing was stationed in the ancient city of Qushui.
When Zhang Chong died during the war, his tribesmen elected the army leader Xue Yuansi and Zhang Chong's chief Shi Chengmao as commanders.
In Yisi, King Nankang ascended the throne in Jiangling, changed the third year of Yongyuan to the first year of Zhongxing, and deposed Shuhun as King of Fuling.
Gaozu was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and he was promoted to General Zhengshu and Commander-in-Chief to conquer various military affairs, pretending to be Huang Tie.
Xitai also sent champion general Xiao Yingda to lead an army to meet him.
One day, Shen Nandang, the commander of Yuan Si's army, led thousands of fast boats across the river to fight. Zhang Huishao and others defeated them and captured them all.
Emperor Gaozu came out and ordered Wang Wangmao, Xiao Yingda and others to march towards Yingcheng.
Yuan Si's soldiers were very tired from the battle and did not dare to fight.
The generals wanted to attack, but Gaozu refused.
In May, Donghun sent 13 armies including General Ningshuo Wu Ziyang and Army Commander Guangzi Jin to rescue Yingzhou and advance to its base.
In June, Xitai sent Wei Wei Xi Shanwen to express condolences to the army, brought Xiao Yingzhou and others' plans, and said to Emperor Gaozu: Troops are now stationed on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. Without gathering troops to surround Ying City, pacify Xiyang and Wuchang, and capture Jiangzhou, this opportunity has been lost; it is better to ask for rescue from the Northern Wei Dynasty and unite with the north, which is still the best policy.
Emperor Gaozu said to Shanwen: The Han-Japanese road leads to Jing and Yong, and runs through Qin and Liang. It transports grain and reserves. In compliance with the message from Bao Bao, we pressed troops at Hankou and contacted several states.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今若并军围城，又分兵前进，鲁山必阻沔路，所谓扼喉。
若粮运不通，自然离散，何谓持久？
邓元起近欲以三千兵往定寻阳，彼若欢然悟机，一郦生亦足；脱距王师，故非三千能下。
进退无据，未见其可。
西阳、武昌，取便得耳，得便应镇守。
守两城不减万人，粮储称是，卒无所出。
脱贼军有上者，万人攻一城，两城势不得相救。
若我分军应援，则首尾俱弱；如其不遣，孤城必陷。
一城既没，诸城相次土崩，天下大事于是去矣。
若郢州既拔，席卷沿流，西阳、武昌，自然风靡，何遽分兵散众，自贻其忧！
且丈夫举动，言静天步；况拥数州之兵以诛群竖，悬河注火，奚有不灭？
岂容北面请救，以自示弱！
彼未必能信，徒贻我丑声。
此之下计，何谓上策？
卿为我白镇军：前途攻取，但以见付，事在目中，无患不捷，恃镇军靖镇之耳。
translation: 
Now if we unite our forces to besiege the city and then divide our forces to advance, Lushan will definitely block the passage of Naicheng, which is what is said to choke the throat.
If the food transportation is blocked, it will naturally separate and collapse. How can it last?
Deng Yuanqi recently wanted to lead 3,000 soldiers and horses to pacify Xunyang. He suddenly realized that one Li Sheng was enough. If the enemy rebels resisted the king's army, it would certainly not be possible for 3,000 soldiers and horses to capture him.
There is no basis for advancing or retreating, and it is impossible to do so.
Youchui and Genguo, if you attack, you must get it, and if you get it, you should defend it.
The number of people guarding the two cities was no less than ten thousand, and the food reserves were equivalent to this, but in the end there was no place to go out.
If the rebel army comes up and ten thousand people attack a city, the two cities will definitely not be able to rescue each other.
If we divide our troops to respond to the rescue, both ends will be weak; if we don't divide our troops, the isolated city will definitely fall.
After one city falls, all the cities will collapse one after another, and the world's major events will be over.
If after Yingzhou is conquered, Xiyang and Wuchang will be swept down by the current, and they will naturally be invincible. How can they disperse their troops and leave behind troubles for themselves?
Moreover, a man's actions and words are calm and adapt to the fate; not to mention having several soldiers and horses to kill the small groups, like a river pouring fire, how can it not be reduced?
How can we allow Bei Xiang to ask for help and show his weakness!
They may not be able to believe it, and it will only leave me with a bad reputation.
This is a bad plan. What is the best plan?
Please tell the town army for me: The troops in front of us are just entrusted with the task of attacking. Things are happening at hand. If we don't worry, we won't succeed. We just rely on the town army to stabilize and pacify us.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
吴子阳等进军武口，高祖乃命军主梁天惠、蔡道祐据渔湖城，唐修期、刘道曼屯白阳垒，夹两岸而待之。
子阳又进据加湖，去郢三十里，傍山带水，筑垒栅以自固。
鲁山城主房僧寄死，众复推助防孙乐祖代之。
七月，高祖命王茂帅军主曹仲宗、康绚、武会超等潜师袭加湖，将逼子阳。
水涸不通舰，其夜暴长，众军乘流齐进，鼓噪攻之，贼俄而大溃，子阳等窜走，众尽溺于江。
王茂虏其余而旋。
于是郢、鲁二城相视夺气。
先是，东昏遣冠军将军陈伯之镇江州，为子阳等声援。
高祖乃谓诸将曰： 夫征讨未必须实力，所听威声耳。
今加湖之败，谁不弭服。
陈虎牙即伯之子，狼狈奔归，彼间人情，理当忷惧，我谓九江传檄可定也。
因命搜所获俘囚，得伯之幢主苏隆之，厚加赏赐，使致命焉。
鲁山城主孙乐祖、郢城主程茂、薛元嗣相继请降。
初，郢城之闭，将佐文武男女口十余万人，疾疫流肿死者十七八，及城开，高祖并加隐恤，其死者命给棺槥。
先是，汝南人胡文超起义于滠阳，求讨义阳、安陆等郡以自效，高祖又遣军主唐修期攻随郡，并克之。
司州刺史王僧景遣子贞孙入质。
translation: 
Wu Ziyang and others marched towards Wukou, so Emperor Gaozu ordered the army leaders Liang Tianhui and Cai Dao to occupy Yuhu City, while Tang Xiuqi and Liu Daoman stationed themselves at Baiyang Barrier, sandwiching the two sides of the bank and waiting for him.
Ziyang marched again and occupied Jiapeng, and Yingzheng was thirty miles away. It was surrounded by mountains and rivers, and he built forts and fences for self-reinforcement.
After Qing Shanzhou, the lord of Dieshan City, died, everyone recommended Jue Luandan, who was helping to prevent him, to replace him.
July. Emperor Gaozu ordered Wang Mao to lead the army commanders Cao Zhongzong, Kang Xuan, Wu Huichao and others to secretly send troops to attack Jiahu and force Ziyang.
The water dried up and could not pass the boat stern. The water surged that night. All the troops marched in boats, beating drums and shouting to attack. The enemy thieves were quickly defeated. Ziyang and others fled, and all the troops drowned in the Yangtze River.
Wang Mao captured the remnants and brought them back.
As a result, the two cities of Yingcheng and Lushan looked at each other and lost their vigor.
Previously, Donghun sent champion general Chen Bozhi to guard Jiangzhou as support for Ziyang and others.
Emperor Gaozu then said to the generals: Conquest does not necessarily require strength, what is determined is prestige.
Now the defeat of Jiahu, who doesn't.
Chen Huya is Bozhi's son. He fled back in embarrassment. People among them should be afraid. I think Jiujiang can pacify him by spreading the proclamation.
He ordered the prisoners captured by the search to be rewarded generously by Su Longzhi, the owner of Bozhi's building, and asked him to convey the mission to Chen Bozhi.
Sun Lezu, the lord of Lushan City, Cheng Mao, and Xue Yuansi, the lords of Yingcheng City, successively requested surrender.
At first, when the city of Ying was closed, there were more than 100,000 generals, civil and military officials, and 78 out of 10 people died of beriberi. After the city gates were opened, Emperor Gaozu took pity on them and provided simple coffins for those who died.
Previously, Hu Wenchao, a native of Runan, revolted in Shiyang and asked to conquer Yiyang, Anlu and other counties to take the initiative. Emperor Gaozu sent the army leader Tang Xiuqi to attack Sui County and captured it.
Wang Sengjing, the governor of Sizhou, sent his son Zhensun as a hostage.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
司部悉平。
陈伯之遣苏隆之反命，求未便进军。
高祖曰： 伯之此言，意怀首鼠，及其犹豫，急往逼之，计无所出，势不得暴。
乃命邓元起率众，即日沿流。
八月，天子遣黄门郎苏回劳军。
高祖登舟，命诸将以次进路，留上庸太守韦睿守郢城，行州事。
邓元起将至寻阳，陈伯之犹猜惧，乃收兵退保湖口，留其子虎牙守盆城。
及高祖至，乃束甲请罪。
九月，天子诏高祖平定东夏，并以便宜从事。
是月，留少府、长史郑绍叔守江州城。
前军次芜湖，南豫州刺史申胄弃姑孰走，至是时大军进据之，仍遣曹景宗、萧颖达领马步进顿江宁。
东昏遣征虏将军李居士率步军迎战，景宗击走之。
于是王茂、邓元起、吕僧珍进据赤鼻逻，曹景宗、陈伯之为游兵。
是日，新亭城主江道林率兵出战，众军擒之于阵。
translation: 
The entire area under Sizhou's jurisdiction was pacified.
Chen Bozhi sent Su Longzhi to reply and asked for permission not to march.
Emperor Gaozu said: Bo Zhi's words showed that he was hesitant in his heart. When he hesitated, he hurried to persecute him. He had nothing to do, so he would definitely not riot.
So Deng Yuan was ordered to lead his army and go down the river that day.
In August, the emperor sent Huangmenlang Su back to comfort the army.
Emperor Gaozu boarded the ship and ordered all the generals to go forward one by one, leaving Wei San, the prefect of Shangyong, to guard Ying City and conduct state affairs.
Deng Yuanqi was about to arrive in Xunyang, but Chen Bozhi was still suspicious, so he withdrew his troops and retreated to Hukou, leaving his son Huya to guard Basin City.
When Emperor Gaozu arrived, he put away his armor to express his submission and apologize.
In September, the emperor ordered Gaozu to pacify Shuxia and act arbitrarily.
This month, the Shaofu and Chief Shi Zheng Shaoshu were left to guard Jiangzhou City.
The vanguard troops were stationed in Wuhu, and Shenzhou, the governor of Southern Yuzhou, abandoned Gushu and fled. At this time, the army entered and occupied it, and sent Cao Jingzong and Xiao Yingda to lead cavalry and infantry to station in Jiangning.
Donghun sent the conquest general Li Jushi to lead the infantry to fight, but Jingzong repelled him.
So Wang Mao, Deng Yuanqi, and Lu Seng marched to occupy Chibiluo, with Cao Jingzong and Chen Bozhi as mobile troops.
On this day, Jiang Daolin, the lord of Xinting City, led his troops out of the city to fight, and the troops captured him on the battlefield.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
大军次新林，命王茂进据越城，曹景宗据皁荚桥，邓元起据道士墩，陈伯之据篱门。
道林余众退屯航南，义军迫之，因复散走，退保硃爵，凭淮以自固。
时李居士犹据新亭垒，请东昏烧南岸邑屋以开战场。
自大航以西、新亭以北，荡然矣。
十月，东昏石头军主硃僧勇率水军二千人归降。
东昏又遣征虏将军王珍国率军主胡虎牙等列阵于航南大路，悉配精手利器，尚十余万人。
阉人王伥子持白虎幡督率诸军，又开航背水，以绝归路。
王茂、曹景宗等掎角奔之，将士皆殊死战，无不一当百，鼓噪震天地。
珍国之众，一时土崩，投淮死者，积尸与航等，后至者乘之以济，于是硃爵诸军望之皆溃。
义军追至宣阳门，李居士以新亭垒、徐元瑜以东府城降，石头、白下诸军并宵溃。
translation: 
The army was stationed at Tongla, and Wang Lu marched to occupy Langqiu, Cao Jingzong occupied Zaoji Bridge, Deng Yuanqi occupied Taoist Dune, and Chen Bozhi occupied Limen.
The rest of Daolin's troops retreated to the south of the pontoon, and the righteous troops advanced on them. Then they broke up and fled, retreated to Zhu Jue's defense, and relied on the Huaihe River to consolidate themselves.
At that time, layman Li still occupied the new pavilion base and asked Donghun to burn the cottages on the south bank to open a battlefield.
From the area west of Dahang and north of Xinting. Already flattened.
In October, Zhu Sengyong, the leader of the Stone Army in Donghun, led 2,000 navy troops to surrender.
Shuhun also sent the conscripting general Wang Zhenguo and the army commander Hu Huya to set up formations on the avenue south of the pontoon bridge. They were all equipped with elite soldiers and weapons, and there were still more than 100,000 people.
The eunuch Wang Yizi, holding a white tiger flag in his hand, supervised the troops and dismantled the pontoon bridge with his back to the river to cut off the return route.
Wang Mao, Cao Jingzong and others attacked directly towards the enemy. The soldiers fought desperately, one against a hundred, beating drums and shouting shook the world.
Zhenguo's army collapsed instantly, and those who were thrown into the Huaihe River died. The corpses were piled up as high as the pontoon bridge, and those who were later stepped on it to cross. When Zhu Jue's troops saw it, they all collapsed.
The righteous army pursued them to Xuanyang Gate, where Li Jushi led Xintinglei and Xu Yuanyu led Shufucheng to surrender. Shitou and Baixia's armies collapsed at night.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
壬午，高祖镇石头，命众军围六门，东昏悉焚烧门内，驱逼营署、官府并入城，有众二十万。
青州刺史桓和绐东昏出战，因以其众来降。
高祖命诸军筑长围。
初，义师之逼，东昏遣军主左僧庆镇京口，常僧景镇广陵，李叔献屯瓜步，及申胄自姑孰奔归，又使屯破墩以为东北声援。
至是，高祖遣使晓喻，并率众降。
乃遣弟辅国将军秀镇京口，辅国将军恢屯破墩，从弟宁朔将军景镇广陵。
吴郡太守蔡夤弃郡赴义师。
十二月丙寅旦，兼卫尉张稷、北徐州刺史王珍国斩东昏，送首义师。
高祖命吕僧珍勒兵封府库及图籍，收甗妾潘妃及凶党王咺之以下四十一人属吏诛之。
宣德皇后令废涪陵王为东昏侯，依汉海昏侯故事。
授高祖中书监、都督扬、南徐二州诸军事、大司马、录尚书、骠骑大将军、扬州刺史，封建安郡公，食邑万户，给班剑四十人，黄钺、侍中、征讨诸军事并如故；依晋武陵王遵承制故事。
己卯，高祖入屯阅武堂。
translation: 
At Renwu, Emperor Gaozu guarded Shitou, ordered the army to surround the six gates, burned all the houses in the gates, and drove out all the people in the camps and government offices into the city, with a tribe of two hundred thousand people.
Qingzhou governor Huan He deceived Donghun to leave the city to fight, and took the opportunity to lead his army to surrender.
Emperor Gaozu ordered the troops to build long fortifications around the city.
At first, when the righteous troops were advancing, Donghun sent military commanders Zuo Sengqing to guard Jingkou, Chang Sengjing to guard Guangling, and Li Shuxian to guard Guabu. When Shen Zhou fled from Gushu, he was asked to garrison Podun as support for the northeast.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu sent an envoy to inform them, and they all led their troops to surrender.
So he sent his younger brother General Xiao Xiu to guard Jingkou, General Xiao Hui to guard Podun, and his cousin General Ningshuo Xiao Jing to guard Guangling.
Cai Wei, the governor of Wu County, abandoned the county and went to the righteous army.
On the morning of Bingyin in December, Zhang Dan, the concurrent guard, and Wang Zhenguo, the governor of North Xuzhou, beheaded Donghun and gave his head to the righteous army.
Emperor Gaozu ordered Lu Sengzhen to command the army to close the palace warehouses and books, arrest the maids and concubines, and forty-one subordinate officials under the rebel Wang Xi, and kill them all.
Queen Xuande ordered that King Fuling be deposed as Donghunhou, in accordance with the old rule of Donghunhou.
He appointed Gaozu as the Superintendent of the Zhongshu, the Commander-in-Chief of the two states of Yangnan and Xu, the military affairs department, the Grand Sima, the Secretary of Records, the Hussar General, and the Governor of Yangzhou. He was granted the title of Duke of Jian'an, with 10,000 households living in the city. Forty warriors with decorated swords were given to him. The military positions of Huangtie, Shizhong, and expedition were still the same; in accordance with the old practice of Sima Zun, King of Wuling in the Jin Dynasty, who acted in accordance with the emperor's will.
In Ji Mao, Emperor Gaozu entered the martial arts hall.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
下令曰： 皇家不造，遘此昏凶，祸挻动植，虐被人鬼，社庙之危，蠢焉如缀。
吾身籍皇宗，曲荷先顾，受任边疆，推毂万里，眷言瞻乌，痛心在目，故率其尊主之情，厉其忘生之志。
虽宝历重升，明命有绍，而独夫丑纵，方煽京邑。
投袂援戈，克弭多难。
虐政横流，为日既久，同恶相济，谅非一族。
仰禀朝命，任在专征，思播皇泽，被之率土。
凡厥负衅，咸与惟新。
可大赦天下；唯王咺之等四十一人不在赦例。
又令曰： 夫树以司牧，非役物以养生；视民如伤，岂肆上以纵虐。
废主弃常，自绝宗庙。
穷凶极悖，书契未有。
征赋不一，苛酷滋章。
translation: 
The order states: The royal family is unfortunate to suffer from this disaster. The disaster has spread to animals and plants. The disaster has spread to people and ghosts. The Sheji Ancestral Temple is in danger and is on the verge of collapse.
I was born into a royal family and was cared for by the late emperor. I was appointed to the frontier and employed in Liao Dynasty. When I look back at the people who had no refuge in the troubled times, I can still feel the sadness. Therefore, I follow my feelings of respecting the emperor and encourage myself to sacrifice myself and forget my life.
Although the country's fortunes have risen again and the emperor's order has been continued, the evil deeds of the independent husband are rampant and are raging in the capital.
Rise up and fight to overcome the difficulties.
The tyranny has been rampant for a long time, and we believe that we are not the same people as they help each other in evil.
Yang was ordered by the imperial court to devote himself to the expedition, hoping to spread the emperor's favor throughout the world.
All those guilty were allowed to reform.
A general amnesty can be granted to the whole world; only forty-one people including Wang Shunzhi are not included in the amnesty provisions.
He also ordered: To establish a monarch, it is not to use other things to support one's livelihood; it is to be extremely considerate of the people's sufferings. How can one indulge in tyranny?
The deposed monarch destroyed the rules and regulations and exterminated the ancestral temple.
Extremely ferocious and rebellious, unprecedented in the records of the past dynasties.
Taxation is uneven and harshness and cruelty are becoming more and more obvious.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
缇绣土木，菽粟犬马，征发闾左，以充缮筑。
流离寒暑，继以疫疬，转死沟渠，曾莫救恤，朽肉枯骸，乌鸢是厌。
加以天灾人火，屡焚宫掖，官府台寺，尺椽无遗，悲甚《黍离》，痛兼《麦秀》。
遂使亿兆离心，疆徼侵弱，斯人何辜，离此涂炭！今明昏递运，大道公行，思治之氓，来苏兹日。
猥以寡薄，属当大宠，虽运距中兴，艰同草昧，思阐皇休，与之更始。
凡昏制、谬赋、淫刑、滥役，外可详检前源，悉皆除荡。
其主守散失，诸所损耗，精立科条，咸从原例。
又曰： 永元之季，乾维落纽。
政实多门，有殊卫文之代；权移于下，事等曹恭之时。
遂使阉尹有翁媪之称，高安有法尧之旨。
鬻狱贩官，锢山护泽，开塞之机，奏成小丑。
直道正义，拥抑弥年，怀冤抱理，莫知谁诉。奸吏因之，笔削自己。
translation: 
The civil servants were clothed with noble silk fabrics, the dogs and horses were fed with food, and the common people were recruited to serve as builders.
With the coming of cold and summer, displacement and plague, the corpses were abandoned in the ravines, and no one came to rescue them. The rotten flesh and withered bones fed the bellies of crows and eagles.
Coupled with natural disasters and man-made fires, the palace and government offices were burned down many times, leaving no square rafters. The sadness is greater than the sigh of "Maili" and twice as sad as the chant of "Maixiu".
As a result, all the people were separated and the borders were weakened. What crime did these people have? They suffered from this misfortune and now darkness and brightness are changing alternately. The great road is openly implemented. The people who want to rule the world are able to rest in hardship because of their arrival today.
Although the country's fate has reached a state of resurgence, it is still as difficult as the founding period. I want to illustrate the emperor's virtues and help him eliminate the old and introduce the new.
All chaotic systems, wrong taxes, harsh punishments, and excessive labor can be scrutinized to their previous origins, and all of them must be eradicated.
Those responsible for the loss of guardians and various losses have carefully set up subjects and all follow the original rules.
He also ordered: In the last years of Yongyuan, the Chao Gang lost its authority.
The government decrees actually came from many people, including Shuwei Wen's generation; the power was transferred downwards, which was the same as Cao Gong's time.
So the eunuchs in charge were called old men and old women, and Gao'an followed Tang Yao's orders.
Taking bribes to resolve cases, using money to sell officials, occupying mountains and rivers, and taking advantage of opportunities to make revolutions, they have become despicable people.
Straightforward to justice, suppressed for many years, grievances are justified, and I don’t know who to complain to. The traitor takes advantage of the situation and makes arbitrary decisions.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
岂直贾生流涕，许伯哭时而已哉！
今理运惟新，政刑得所，矫革流弊，实在兹日。
可通检尚书众曹，东昏时诸诤讼失理及主者淹停不时施行者，精加讯辨，依事议奏。
又下令，以义师临阵致命及疾病死亡者，并加葬敛，收恤遗孤。
又令曰： 硃爵之捷，逆徒送死者，特许家人殡葬；若无亲属，或有贫苦，二县长尉即为埋掩。
建康城内，不达天命，自取沦灭，亦同此科。
二年正月，天子遣兼侍中席阐文、兼黄门侍郎乐法才慰劳京邑。
追赠高祖祖散骑常侍左光禄大夫，考侍中丞相。
高祖下令曰： 夫在上化下，草偃风从，世之浇淳，恒由此作。
自永元失德，书契未纪，穷凶极悖，焉可胜言。
translation: 
Could it be that it was just when Jia Sheng cried and Xu Bo cried?
Now the luck is renewed, the government and punishments are appropriate, and the shortcomings caused by the changes are corrected, and it is true today.
The official offices of the ministers can be comprehensively inspected. During the twilight period, if the public arguments are unreasonable and the supervisors fail to implement them in a timely manner, they will be strictly examined and the handling opinions will be reported to the emperor after discussing the matter.
He also ordered that those among the righteous soldiers who died on the battlefield or died of illness should be buried, and their orphans should be taken in and cared for.
He also ordered: "In Zhu Jue's victory, those who rebelled against the party and died will be specially allowed to be buried by their families; if they have no relatives or belong to poor families, they will be buried by the captains of the two counties."
In Jiankang City, the same is true for those who do not understand destiny and bring about their own destruction.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor sent his ministers, Xi Shanwen and Huangmen minister Lefacai, to express their condolences and reward him in Kyoto.
As a posthumous gift, my great-great-great-grandfather was the official servant of Sanqi, Zuo Guanglu, and his father was the official servant of the prime minister.
Emperor Gaozu ordered: If the superior can transform the people with virtue, then the people will be transformed like the wind blowing and the grass falling, and the superficiality and honesty of the world's customs will often arise from this.
Ever since Yongyuan lost his virtue, he has not been recorded in any books. He is extremely evil, so how can he describe it in words?


Chunk 23: 
original: 
既而皞室外构，倾宫内积，奇技异服，殚所未见。
上慢下暴，淫侈竞驰。
国命朝权，尽移近习。
贩官鬻爵，贿货公行。
并甲第康衢，渐台广室。
长袖低昂，等和戎之赐；珍羞百品，同伐冰之家。
愚民因之，浸以成俗。
骄艳竞爽，夸丽相高。
至乃市井之家，貂狐在御；工商之子，缇绣是袭。
日入之次，夜分未反，昧爽之朝，期之清旦。
圣明肇运，厉精惟始，虽曰缵戎，殆同创革。
且淫费之后，继以兴师，巨桥、鹿台，凋罄不一。
孤忝荷大宠，务在澄清，思所以仰述皇朝大帛之旨，俯厉微躬鹿裘之义，解而更张，斫雕为朴。
自非可以奉粢盛，修绂冕，习礼乐之容，缮甲兵之备，此外众费，一皆禁绝。
translation: 
Soon the jade-decorated palaces were colluding with the outside world, the majestic palaces were filled with wealth, and the strange skills, obscenities, and strange costumes were all unprecedented.
The lord is proud and his subordinates are cruel, lustful and extravagant.
State power is no longer a favor.
Selling officials and nobles, bribing the public.
They are all luxurious residences, accessible avenues, and large houses on high platforms.
The geisha's singing and dancing are as high as those of the soldiers; there are hundreds of rare and delicacies, which are the same as those of high-ranking officials and nobles.
Foolish people follow the same practices and become customary.
Take beauty as a pride and strive to win and compete with others, use beauty as a means of showing off and chase and strive for heights.
When he went to the market place, he wore mink fur and fox fur to drive a carriage and horse; businessmen wore noble silk fabrics.
When the sun sets, he reaches his overnight place and does not return at midnight. When dawn comes, he stays until early morning.
The emperor revitalized the country and began to work hard to govern. Although he inherited the emperor's legacy, he almost created changes.
Moreover, after excessive expenditure, the troops were raised, and the huge bridges and deer platforms were all exhausted.
I have been favored and humiliated by powerful ministers, and I am committed to clearing up the chaotic situation. I am thinking about how to respect the emperor's decree of wearing thick bedding, silk, and frugality, and encourage myself below to live a simple life, change my behavior, and get rid of the customs of flashy carvings and return to simplicity.
If it is not used to provide grain for sacrifices, to decorate official uniforms, to learn the system of rituals and music, and to improve weapons and equipment, all other expenses are strictly prohibited.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
御府中署，量宜罢省。
掖庭备御妾之数，大予绝郑卫之音。
其中有可以率先卿士，准的庶，菲食薄衣，请自孤始。
加群才并轨，九官咸事，若能人务退食，竞存约己，移风易俗，庶期月有成。
昔毛玠在朝，士大夫不敢靡衣偷食。
魏武叹曰： 孤之法不如毛尚书。
孤虽德谢往贤，任重先达，实望多士得其此心。
外可详为条格。
戊戌，宣德皇后临朝，入居内殿。
拜帝大司马，解承制，百僚致敬如前。
诏进高祖都督中外诸军事，剑履上殿，入朝不趋，赞拜不名。
加前后部羽葆鼓吹。
translation: 
The emperor's treasury and the palace's inner palace are subject to measurement and reduction.
The palace prepares the number of female officials, and "Dayu" bans music from Zheng and Wei.
If there is anyone who can serve as an example for officials and role models for the people, who eats poor food and wears simple clothes, please start with me.
Coupled with the fact that there are many talented people working together, if the officials of the Jiuqing and the Six Ministries can work together, if everyone can be frugal and serve the public, scrutinize and restrain themselves one after another, and change customs, it will take about a year to achieve results.
In the past, when Catharsis was in office, the scholar-bureaucrats did not dare to live an ignoble existence with good clothes and good food.
Wei Wu sighed: My laws are not as good as Mao Shangshu.
Although my moral character is not as good as that of the sages of the past, I still have more responsibilities than my virtuous and learned predecessors. I really hope that many sages will understand my feelings.
Officials of the foreign court can formulate regulations in detail.
During the Wuxu period, Empress Xuande came to the court to attend to affairs of state and moved into the place where the emperor summoned ministers and handled state affairs.
The emperor was appointed as the Grand Sima, and the officials responsible for opening the government were dismissed. All the officials were extremely respectful as before.
The imperial edict promoted the emperor to the position of governor of the Chinese and foreign military forces. He could carry a sword and go to the court without taking off his shoes. He did not need to walk quickly when entering the court. Those who paid tribute during the pilgrimage did not call him by his name.
Give the front and rear feathers a blow.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
置左右长史、司马、从事中郎、掾、属各四人，并依旧辟士，余并如故。
诏曰：夫日月丽天，高明所以表德；山岳题地，柔博所以成功。
故能庶物出而资始，河海振而不泄。
二象贞观，代之者人。
是以七辅、四叔，致无为于轩、昊；韦、彭、齐、晋，靖衰乱于殷、周。
大司马攸纵自天，体兹齐圣，文洽九功，武苞七德。
钦惟厥始，徽猷早树，诚著艰难，功参帷幙。
锡赋开壤，式表厥庸。
建武升历，边隙屡启，公释书辍讲，经营四方。司、豫悬切，樊、汉危殆，覆强寇于沔滨，僵胡马于邓汭。
永元肇号，难结群丑，专威擅虐，毒被含灵，溥天惴惴，命悬晷刻。
否终有期，神谟载挺，首建大策，惟新鼎祚。
投袂勤王，沿流电举，鲁城云撤，夏汭雾披，加湖群盗，一鼓殄拔，姑孰连旍，倏焉冰泮。
取新垒其如拾芥，扑硃爵其犹扫尘。
霆电外骇，省闼内倾，余丑纤蠹，蚳蝝必尽。
translation: 
Set up a long history on the left and right, four people each for Sima, Zhonglang, Peng, and subordinates, and recruit and appoint people as usual, and the rest are all as before.
The edict said: The sun and moon shine in the sky. They are high and bright, so they commend morality; mountains rise from the earth, and they are soft and broad, so they achieve merit.
Therefore, all things can come into being and take place, and rivers, lakes and seas can gather together without leaking.
Heaven and earth show people the right way and replace them with virtuous people.
Therefore, the Seventh Fu and the Fourth Uncle used the art of inaction in Xuanhan and Shaowu; Siwei, Dapeng, Qihuan, and Jinwen quelled the decline and chaos in the Yin and Zhou dynasties.
The Great Sima was given by God, and he is on par with the saints. His civil administration covers the six prefectures of water, fire, metal, wood, earth and valley, as well as the three matters of righteousness, utilization, and welfare. His martial arts includes the seven virtues of prohibiting violence, fighting the army, protecting the people, establishing merit, calming the people, harmonious people, and abundant wealth.
Beginning with respect and consideration, the path of goodness has been established early, loyalty is evident in difficult times, meritorious service participates in planning, and children are given to open up the land, becoming a role model for ordinary people.
When Emperor Ming ascended the throne and established his reign as Jianwu, disputes on the border frequently arose.
You put down your books to give lectures and plan and manage the surrounding areas. Sizhou and Yuzhou were in danger, Fancheng and Hanzhong were in danger, the strong bandits were eliminated by the Mian River, and Hu Ma was killed by the Dengdi waterfront.
At the beginning of the Yongyuan reign, a group of villains caused trouble and abused their power without permission, poisoning a wide range of spiritual human beings. The whole world was worried and fearful, and their lives were in immediate danger.
Misfortune has its time limit, and divine counsel steps forward to make the first major decisions and renew the destiny of the country.
Rise up and do your best to do the king's work, attack with lightning along the current, the enemies in Lucheng disperse in clouds, the thieves on the waterfront in Xia Di disappear, and the thieves in the lake are wiped out in one go, and the strong bandits with flags are instantly released.
Obtaining a new base is like picking up grass and mustard, overturning Zhujue is like sweeping away the dust.
Thunder and lightning shocked the outside of the palace and overturned the palace. The rest of the clowns, moths and larvae must be wiped out.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
援彼已溺，解此倒悬，涂欢里抃，自近及远。
畿甸夷穆，方外肃宁，解兹虐网，被以宽政。
积弊穷昏，一朝载廓，声教遐渐，无思不被。
虽伊尹之执兹壹德，姬旦之光于四海，方斯蔑如也。
昔吕望翼佐圣君，犹享四履之命；文侯立功平后，尚荷二弓之锡，况于盛德元勋，超迈自古。
黔首惵惵，待以为命，救其已然，拯其方斫，式闾表墓，未或能比；而大辂渠门，辍而莫授，眷言前训，无忘终食。
便宜敬升大典，式允群望。
其进位相国，总百揆，扬州刺史；封十郡为梁公，备九锡之礼，加玺绂远游冠，位在诸王上，加相国绿綟绶。
其骠骑大将军如故。
依旧置梁百司。
translation: 
The enemy is gone, the people are relieved, and the people are clapping their hands and rejoicing, from near to far.
The area around the capital is peaceful and harmonious, and outside the capital is quiet and peaceful. The rule of violence is lifted, and the government is lenient and gentle.
The accumulated ills are extremely confusing, and they are eliminated in a short time. The prestige and education make the remote places subtle, and there is no need to worry about not spreading.
Even if Yi Yin upholds virtue and Ji Dan shines all over the world, they cannot compare with this.
In the past, when Lu Wang assisted the Ming Dynasty, he still had the royal command to conquer the four realms that could be reached; after Wen Hou made great achievements, he was still rewarded by the two bows, not to mention the noble moral character, which surpassed the sages from ancient times.
The people are afraid and expect you to solve their survival problems, save their current situation, and save them from the fate of being executed. The merits and deeds in the banquet and the carving of stones on the tombs of the deceased to praise their good deeds cannot be compared with this; Daxia and Qumen have stopped not granting them, and they look back on the past principles and do not forget their final rewards.
After considering the matter, he decided to respectfully increase the reward for the national ceremony, in order to meet public expectations.
You will be promoted to the position of prime minister, prime minister of hundreds of officials, and appointed governor of Yangzhou; you will be enfeoffed to the title of Duke of Liang in ten counties, and you will be given the gift of nine tins. You will also be awarded a seal ribbon and a long-distance travel crown. Your position will be higher than that of the kings, and you will be awarded the prime minister's green ribbon.
It is still the same as General Ren Hussar.
Still appointed hundreds of officials for Liang Gong.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
策曰：二仪寂寞，由寒暑而代行，三才并用，资立人以为宝，故能流形品物，仰代天工。
允兹元辅，应期挺秀，裁成天地之功，幽协神明之德。
拨乱反正，济世宁民，盛烈光于有道，大勋振于无外，虽伊陟之保乂王家，姬公之有此丕训，方之蔑如也。
今将授公典策，其敬听朕命：上天不造，难钟皇室，世祖以休明早崩，世宗以仁德不嗣，高宗袭统，宸居弗永，虽夙夜劬劳，而隆平不洽。
嗣君昏暴，书契弗睹。
朝权国柄，委之群甗。
剿戮忠贤，诛残台辅，含冤抱痛，噍类靡余。
实繁非一，并专国命。
嚬笑致灾，睚眦及祸。
严科毒赋，载离比屋，溥天熬熬，置身无所。
冤颈引决，道树相望，无近无远，号天靡告。
公藉昏明之期，因兆民之愿，援帅群后，翊成中兴。宗社之危已固，天人之望允塞，此实公纽我绝纲，大造皇家者也。
translation: 
The decree states: Heaven and earth are lonely, cold and heat alternate, and heaven, earth, and humans work together to support and cultivate humans as treasures, so that all things can be nourished by nature and move and change their shapes, honoring the duties of heaven.
An important minister who is respected and trusted, a hero who adapts to the destiny, has the power to tailor the heaven and earth, and is deeply in harmony with the divine virtue.
To bring order out of chaos, to help the world and bring peace to the people, to bring glory and beauty to the Qing Ming Dynasty, and to make achievements spread far and wide. Even if the governance of Yizhi brought stability and peace to the royal family, and Duke Ji had such important teachings, it would not be as good as these.
Now I will give you an order, please listen to my order: misfortune comes from heaven, it is difficult to gather the royal family, the ancestor died early due to the beautiful Qingming Dynasty, the emperor Shizong was benevolent and virtuous, and the emperor after Gaozong did not last long, although he worked hard morning and night, he could not spread prosperity and peace throughout the world.
The monarch who succeeded him was so angry and violent that he was unprecedented in recorded history.
State power appoints demons.
Slaying the loyal ministers and virtuous people, punishing the three princes and ministers, holding on to the injustice, all the living people died.
There are indeed many such things, and they are arbitrary in the country's destiny.
A frown brings disaster, a small grudge brings misfortune.
Harsh punishments, vicious taxes, and displacement abound. The whole world is filled with sorrow and resentment, and has no place to stand.
The wronged people who committed suicide looked at each other from the trees on both sides of the road, no matter how far or near, crying to each other and having no place to tell each other.
You took advantage of the dim light, obeyed the wishes of the people, led the ministers and officials, and assisted in promoting the resurgence of the country's destiny. The danger of the ancestral temple and the country has been stabilized, and the expectations of heaven and man have been met. This is really your great kindness to the royal family.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
永明季年，边隙大启，荆河连率，招引戎荒，江、淮扰逼，势同履虎。
公受言本朝，轻兵赴袭，縻以长算，制之环中。
排危冒险，强柔递用，坦然一方，还成籓服。
此又公之功也。
在昔隆昌，洪基已谢，高宗虑深社稷，将行权道。
公定策帷帐，激扬大节，废帝立王，谋猷深著。
此又公之功也。
建武阐业，厥猷虽远，戎狄内侵，凭陵关塞，司部危逼，沦陷指期。
公治兵外讨，卷甲长骛，接距交绥，电激风扫，摧坚覆锐，咽水涂原，执俘象魏，献馘海渚，焚庐毁帐，号哭言归。
此又公之功也。
樊、汉阽切，羽书续至。
translation: 
In the last years of the Yongming Dynasty, border disputes arose. The local governor of Jinghe invited the Xirong, and the enemies of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River invaded and threatened them. The situation was as dangerous as trampling on the tail of a tiger.
You offer your word to this dynasty, attack with light troops, use long strategies to tie up the enemy, and control the enemy in the palm of your hand.
Eliminate dangers and take risks, balance hardness and softness, and stabilize one side, which is a vassal state.
This is another big credit to you.
In the past, during the Longchang period, the great cause had withered, and Gao Zong made deep plans for the country and would implement changes.
You plan to establish the emperor in the tent, encourage the promotion of great festivals, depose the emperor and establish the king, and you have profound strategies.
This is another big credit to you.
During the Jianwu period, the emperor's career was carried forward. Although the strategy was far-reaching, the Rong and Di invaded and invaded the passes. The headquarters was in danger and the fall was just around the corner.
You organize your troops to conquer from outside, your light troops advance quickly, and you engage in battle. You attack like lightning and the wind sweeps away fallen leaves. You defeat the strong bandits and destroy the enemy's elite. You fill the fields with the enemy's corpses. You capture prisoners in the palace, offer the enemy's ear to the island, burn the enemy's camp and destroy the tents, and make the enemy army cry and surrender.
This is another big credit to you.
The danger in Fancheng and Hanzhong was imminent, and urgent military documents with bird feathers on them came one after another.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
公星言鞠旅，禀命徂征，而军机戎统，事非己出，善策嘉谋，抑而莫允。
邓城之役，胡马卒至，元帅潜及，不相告报，弃甲捐师，饵之虎口。
公南收散卒，北御雕骑，全众方轨，案路徐归，拯我边危，重获安堵。
此又公之功也。
汉南迥弱，咫尺勍寇，兵粮盖阙，器甲靡遗。
公作籓爰始，因资靡托，整兵训卒，蒐狩有序，俾我危城，翻为强镇。
此又公之功也。
永元纪号，瞻乌已及，虽废昏有典，而伊、霍称难。
公首建大策，爰立明圣，义逾邑纶，勋高代人，易乱以化，俾昏作明。
此又公之功也。
文王之风，虽被江、汉，京邑蠢动，湮为洪流，句吴、於越，巢幕匪喻。
translation: 
You quickly convened a swearing-in meeting and received orders to go on a expedition, but you could not make your own decisions about military affairs and military affairs, and your good strategies were suppressed and rejected.
During the Battle of Dengcheng, Hu soldiers and horses suddenly arrived, and the commander sneaked back without telling anyone, abandoning the army and feeding the tiger's mouth.
You collect scattered troops in the south, guard against the fierce enemy cavalry in the north, keep all troops and vehicles in parallel, and return slowly according to the road, save our border danger and regain stability.
It's a great contribution to your work.
Hannan was far from weak, and strong invaders were present. The army was short of food and weapons.
You start to guard one side, rely on existing resources instead of relying on them, organize the troops and train the soldiers, hunt and practice martial arts in an orderly manner, allowing me to threaten the city and make it a strong town.
This is another big credit to you.
When Yongyuan was used as the reign name, troubled times came when the people had no way to return. Although there were laws to follow in abolishing Shuhun, the ministers who controlled the government were in trouble.
You are the first to initiate great discussions and support the establishment of the emperor. Your morality is higher than that of the Lun family from your hometown, and your achievements are higher than those of the king. You have replaced turmoil with peace and turned darkness into light.
This is another big credit to you.
Although King Wen's style of teaching was widely spread in the Yangtze and Han River basins, the capital was in turmoil and was submerged by the torrent. Juwu and Yuyue even built nests on tents, but the danger could not be overstated.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
公投袂万里，事惟拯溺，义声所覃，无思不韪。
此又公之功也。
鲁城、夏汭，梗据中流，乘山置垒，萦川自固。
公御此乌集，陵兹地险，顿兵坐甲，寒往暑移，我行永久，士忘归愿，经以远图，御以长策，费无遗矢，战未穷兵，践华之固，相望俱拔。
此又公之功也。
惟此群凶，同恶相济，缘江负险，蚁聚加湖。
水陆盘据，规援夏首，桴鳷一临，应时褫溃。
此又公之功也。
奸甗震皇，复怀举斧，蓄兵九派，用拟勤王。
公棱威直指，势逾风电，旌旆小临，全州稽服。
此又公之功也。
姑孰冲要，密迩京畿，凶徒炽聚，断塞津路。
公偏师启涂，排方继及，兵威所震，望旗自骇，焚舟委壁，卷甲宵遁。
此又公之功也。
translation: 
You have fought thousands of miles to save people from danger. Wherever your voice of kindness reaches, there is nothing unkind and beautiful.
It's a great contribution to your work.
On the banks of the Lucheng River and the Xia River, we blocked the middle reaches, climbed to the top of the mountain and built forts, and strengthened ourselves around the river.
You resisted this rabble, galloped through this dangerous place, stationed your troops in armor and waited for the enemy, and the cold and heat alternated. Our army went out for a long time, and the soldiers forgot their wish to return.
This is another big credit to you.
This gang of thieves, working together to help each other, took advantage of the dangers along the Yangtze River to gather like ants in the lake.
Seizing waterways and land routes, seeking to aid Xia Shou, the warships immediately collapsed and disintegrated.
This is another big credit to you.
The traitorous monster was shocked, and he raised his troops again. You accumulated troops in Hubei and Jiangxi along the Yangtze River basin, intending to rescue the dynasty.
Your power is direct, and your power exceeds the speed of wind and lightning. The army is approaching, and the whole state surrenders.
It is a great contribution to your creation.
Gushu lives in a strategic location, close to Kyoto, where ferocious gangsters gather closely to block waterways.
You set off with a partial division, and a large fleet followed. The enemy was shocked by the power of the troops. They looked at the flag and were frightened. They burned the boats and abandoned the barriers, rolled up their armor and fled at night.
This is another big credit to you.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
群竖猖狂，志在借一，豕突淮涘，武骑如云。
公爰命英勇，因机骋锐，气冠版泉，势逾洹水，追奔逐北，奄有通津，熊耳比峻，未足云拟，睢水不流，曷其能及。
此又公之功也。
琅邪、石首，襟带岨固，新垒、东墉，金汤是埒。
凭险作守，兵食兼资，风激电骇，莫不震叠，城复于隍，于是乎在。
此又公之功也。
独夫昏很，凭城靡惧，鼓钟鞺鞜，慠若有余。
狎是邪甗，忌斯冠冕，凶狡因之，将逞孥戮。
公奇谟密运，盛略潜通，忠勇之徒，得申厥效，白旗宣室，未之或比。
此又公之功也。
公有拯亿兆之勋，重之以明德，爰初厉志，服道儒门，濯缨来仕，清猷映代。
时运艰难，宗社危殆，昆岗已燎，玉石同焚。
translation: 
A group of young men were rampant and determined to fight to the death. They ran like wild boars and harassed the banks of the Huaihe River. There were as many armed cavalry as clouds.
So you ordered the brave and outstanding people to gallop at random, with the best strength and strength, surpassing the Huanshui River, chasing the fleeing defeated soldiers, and all occupying Jindu, which extends in all directions.
This is another big credit to you.
Langye and Shishou are surrounded by steep and solid mountain barriers, and Xinba and Shuyong are equivalent to Jincheng Tangchi.
Relying on the danger to defend, with both troops and food, the wind and lightning shook everyone with fear, and the castle collapsed into a ditch of earth, and it is still there at this time.
This is another big credit to you.
The arbitrary ruler is confused and ferocious. He is fearless despite the sound of bells and drums, and is still more than arrogant.
Those who are close to this evil demon and are suspicious of the loyal ministers will use these to kill the clan.
You secretly devised ingenious plans, secretly implemented general strategies, and the loyal and brave people were able to exert their effectiveness. Even if you carry the commander's white flag to the announcement room, it cannot be compared with this.
Sentence is a great contribution to your service.
You have the merits of saving all peoples, and you are virtuous. From the beginning, you have sharpened your moral integrity, devoted yourself to Taoism and Confucianism, and become an official with high integrity. Your Qingming strategy shines in the contemporary era.
Times are difficult, the ancestral temple and the country are in danger, Kungang has been set on fire, and all jade and stone have been burned.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
驱率貔貅，抑扬霆电，义等南巢，功齐牧野。
若夫禹功寂漠，微管谁嗣，拯其将鱼，驱其被发，解兹乱网，理此棼丝，复礼衽席，反乐河海。
永平故事，闻之者叹息；司隶旧章，见之者陨涕。
请我民命，还之斗极。
悯悯搢绅，重荷戴天之庆；哀哀黔首，复蒙履地之恩。
德逾嵩、岱，功邻造物，超哉邈矣，越无得而言焉。
朕又闻之：畴庸命德，建侯作屏，咸用克固四维，永隆万叶。
是以《二南》流化，九伯斯征，王道淳洽，刑措罔用。
覆政弗兴，历兹永久，如毁既及，晋、郑靡依。
惟公经纶天地，宁济区夏，道冠乎伊、稷，赏薄于桓、文，岂所以宪章齐、鲁，长辔宇宙。
敬惟前烈，朕甚惧焉。
translation: 
Leading the brave warriors, they advanced and retreated like lightning and thunder. They formed a righteous cause and released Xia Jie in Nanchao. King Wu and others fought against Yin Zhou in Muye.
As for the silence of Dayu's achievements, if it were not Guan Zhong, who would succeed him, save the people who would be slaughtered, expel the barbarians, untie the net of chaos, sort out the tangled threads of chaos, restore etiquette to peace in the world, and make the country peaceful and happy again.
Yongping's precedent made those who heard it sigh; Sili Qiandian made those who saw it cry.
Please pray for our people and submit to the Emperor.
The sad scholar-bureaucrats were again blessed by heaven's grace; the sad common people were again blessed by the dynasty's grace.
Those whose virtues surpass those of Mount Song and Mount Tai, whose merits are close to those of creation, are so outstanding and lofty that they cannot be evaluated.
I also heard that by selecting and appointing virtuous people, and ennobling princes as a barrier for the king, we can consolidate the four principles of governing the country with etiquette, righteousness, integrity, and shame, so that all generations will prosper forever.
Therefore, "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan" spread enlightenment, and the Fang Bo's campaign in Jiuzhou showed that the king's rule was honest and honest, and punishments were put aside.
The ruined political stagnation lasted for eternity, and like fire, Jin and Zheng surrendered.
You plan to govern the great affairs of the world, stabilize and bring prosperity to China, your morality is as high as that of Yi Yin and Hou Ji, and your rewards are less than those of Qi Huan and Jin Wen. Do you need to imitate Qi and Lu in order to effectively rule the universe?
I am afraid when I think about my past achievements.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
今进授相国，改扬州刺史为牧，以豫州之梁郡历阳、南徐州之义兴、扬州之淮南宣城吴吴兴会稽新安东阳十郡，封公为梁公。
锡兹白土，苴以白茅，爰定尔邦，用建冢社。
在昔旦、奭，入居保佑，逮于毕、毛，亦作卿士，任兼内外，礼实宜之。
今命使持节兼太尉王亮授相国扬州牧印绶，梁公玺绂；使持节兼司空王志授梁公茅土，金虎符第一至第五左，竹使符第一至第十左。
相国位冠群后，任总百司，恒典彝数，宜与事革。
其以相国总百揆，去录尚书之号，上所假节、侍中貂蝉、中书监印、中外都督大司马印绶，建安公印策，骠骑大将军如故。
又加公九锡，其敬听后命：以公礼律兼修，刑德备举，哀矜折狱，罔不用情，是用锡公大辂、戎辂各一，玄牡二驷。
translation: 
Now you will be promoted to the state of your zodiac sign, and the governor of Yangzhou will be changed to the position of Mu. I will grant you the title of Duke of Liang, including Liyang in Liangjun in Yuzhou, Yixing in southern Xuzhou, Wujun in Xuancheng in Huainan, Wuxing, Kuaiji, Xin'an, and Shuyang in Yangzhou.
Reward white soil and wrap it with white grass to stabilize your feudal state and build your tomb soil.
In the past, Zhou Gong Dan and Zhao Gong entered the palace to protect and assist. As for Bi Gong and Mao Gong, they also served as officials and served both inside and outside the court. This is indeed a method suitable for etiquette and law.
Now Wang Liang, the envoy Chijie and Taiwei, is ordered to confer the seal ribbon of Yangzhou to the Prime Minister and the seal ribbon of Duke Liang; the envoy Chijie and Sikong Wangzhi confer the title of Duke Liang, with the golden tiger talisman from the first to the fifth left, and the bamboo talisman from the first to the tenth left.
The prime minister ranks first among the ministers and is responsible for the prime minister and hundreds of officials. He is in charge of regular laws and of course participates in changes.
Because the prime minister of the state has hundreds of officials, except for the title of Shangshu, all the above-mentioned false festivals, Diao Chan, Zhongshu's seal, Sima's seal of the Chinese and foreign governors, the official seal of Jian'an and the policy book of conferring titles, the Hussars General remains as usual.
Jiuxi has been added, please listen to the continued order: Because you are good at both etiquette, law and criminal law, are prepared for punishment and moral governance, and are compassionate in deciding lawsuits without mercy, I will give you one Dage and Rongju each, and eight black stallions.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
公劳心稼穑，念在民天，丕崇本务，惟谷是宝，是用锡公衮冕之服，赤舄副焉。
公熔钧所被，变风以雅，易俗陶民，载和邦国，是用锡公轩悬之乐，六佾之舞。
公文德广覃，义声远洽，椎髻髽首，夷歌请吏，是用锡公硃户以居。
公扬清抑浊，官方有序，多士聿兴，《棫呻朴》流咏，是用锡公纳陛以登。
公正色御下，以身轨物，式遏不虞，折冲惟远，是用锡公虎贲之士三百人。
公威同夏日，志清奸宄，放命圮族，刑兹罔赦，是用锡公鈇、钺各一。
公跨蹑嵩溟，陵厉区宇，譬诸日月，容光必至，是用锡公彤弓一，彤矢百；卢弓十，卢矢千。
公永言惟孝，至感通神，恭严祀典，祭有余敬，是用锡公秬鬯一卣，圭瓒副焉。
translation: 
You care about agricultural production, think about food, respect fundamental matters, and only regard grain as a treasure. Therefore, you have given your emperor and grandpa the ceremonial clothes with dragons painted on them, and the red shoes worn by the emperor and the princes.
In the place you govern, the customs have changed from vulgarity to elegance. You have eradicated old customs and educated the people, making the country harmonious. Therefore, you have been given the joy of Xuanxuan and the dance of six hundred thousand.
Your etiquette and music education spread far and wide, and your reputation for virtue and justice spread far and wide. Minorities in remote areas sang the songs of the barbarians and asked to be ministers. Therefore, you were given a vermilion door for your residence.
You promote good and repudiate evil, establish government offices and orderly officials, many wise men quickly rise, and you praise the numerous talents in "Poetry". Daya, Mechanical Servant" is sung everywhere, so I grant you the opportunity to ascend to the palace.
You govern seriously, lead by example, defend against surprises, and defeat distant enemies. Therefore, you are given three hundred warriors.
Your majesty is like the summer's day. You are determined to eliminate those who violate the laws and destroy the race. You will severely punish them without mercy. Therefore, you have been given one of steel and one of iron.
You have crossed the mountains and the sea, and are above the realm, just like the sun and the moon, your glory will come. Therefore, I give you a red bow and a hundred red arrows; ten black bows and a thousand black arrows.
You always remember filial piety, your extremely sincere emotions are connected to the gods, you are respectful and solemn in the rituals of sacrifices, and you show great respect during sacrifices. Therefore, I give you a bottle of wine brewed with black millet and tulip vanilla, and match it with Gui Zan wine vessel.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
梁国置丞相以下，一遵旧式。
钦哉！
其敬循往策，祗服大礼，对扬天眷，用膺多福，以弘我太祖之休命！
高祖固辞。
府僚劝进曰： 伏承嘉命，显至伫策。
明公逡巡盛礼，斯实谦尊之旨，未穷远大之致。
何者？
嗣君弃常，自绝宗社，国命民主，剪为仇仇，折栋崩榱，压焉自及，卿士怀脯斫之痛，黔首惧比屋之诛。
明公亮格天之功，拯水火之切，再躔日月，重缀参辰，反龟玉于涂泥，济斯民于坑岸，使夫匹妇童儿，羞言伊、吕，乡校里塾，耻谈五霸。
而位卑乎阿衡，地狭于曲阜，庆赏之道，尚其未洽。
夫大宝公器，非要非距，至公至平，当仁谁让？
明公宜祗奉天人，允膺大礼。
无使后予之歌，同彼胥怨，兼济之人，翻为独善。
公不许。
二月辛酉，府僚重请曰： 近以朝命蕴策，冒奏丹诚，奉被还令，未蒙虚受，搢绅颙颙，深所未达。
translation: 
The Liang State established officials below the prime minister level, all of whom followed the old canons.
Admire it!
You will follow the previous plan, respect the great gift, thank and praise the emperor's favor, and thus enjoy many blessings, so as to carry forward the good will of my great ancestor.
Gaozu firmly refused.
The government official advised Jin: "I respectfully accept the emperor's order to confer officials and titles. Xian Da collects policy documents."
You give in to the generous gift, which is really a modesty, but does not reflect the lofty principles.
Why?
The monarch who succeeded to the throne abandoned the ordinary way and cut himself off from the ancestral temple and the state. The imperial court ordered officials and the people to be cut off as enemies. The pillars collapsed, bringing harm to themselves. The officials felt the pain, and the people were afraid of being executed from house to house.
You have shown your ability to communicate with the heavens and save people from emergencies such as water and fire. You have caused the sun and the moon to move on the ecliptic again.
However, your status is lower than that of prime minister, your territory is smaller than Qufu, and your rewards are not consistent.
The emperor, the official title, do not want it and do not refuse it. Who should be given the right to be fair and equal?
You should honor the wishes of gods and humans and accept great gifts.
Don't let the songs that come after me be the same as those that sing about people's complaints. A person who can benefit the people and all things in the world will only become a person who is only good for himself.
Emperor Gaozu disagreed.
On the Xinyou day of February, the government officials requested again: Recently, due to the appointment of the imperial court, I have accumulated policy documents, and I took the liberty to submit them sincerely, and I was ordered to reply. It was not accepted humbly, and the expectations of the scholars were deeply unfulfilled.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
盖闻受金于府，通人弘致，高蹈海隅，匹夫小节，是以履乘石而周公不以为疑，赠玉璜而太公不以为让。
况世哲继轨，先德在民，经纶草昧，叹深微管。
加以硃方之役，荆河是依，班师振旅，大造王室。
虽复累茧救宋，重胝存楚，居今观古，曾何足云。
而惑甚盗钟，功疑不赏，皇天后土，不胜其酷。
是以玉马骏奔，表微子之去；金板出地，告龙逢之冤。
明公据鞍辍哭，厉三军之志，独居掩涕，激义士之心，故能使海若登祗，罄图效祉，山戎、孤竹，束马影从，伐罪吊民，一匡静乱。匪叨天功，实勤濡足。
且明公本自诸生，取乐名教，道风素论，坐镇雅俗，不习孙、吴，遘兹神武。
驱尽诛之氓，济必封之谷，龟玉不毁，谁之功与？
独为君子，将使伊、周何地？
于是始受相国梁公之命。
translation: 
It is said that receiving the gold seal in the government office is a sign of great righteousness for a knowledgeable and knowledgeable person, and he lives in seclusion in the corner of the world. It is a small matter for ordinary people, so Shi Dangong, who was the stepping stone for the emperor to board the carriage, did not think it suspicious, and received the jade Huang Sangong without any humility.
Besides, there are sages from generation to generation who continue the trajectory of their predecessors. The virtues of our ancestors have been passed down from generation to generation. When planning and governing the country, we deeply admire ministers with outstanding merits like Guan Zhong.
In addition to the battle of Zhu Fang, the Jinghe area surrendered, and the whole team returned triumphantly, which was a great contribution to the royal family.
Even though Mo Zhai developed thick calluses on his feet to save the Song Dynasty, and Shen Baoxu wore out layers of thick calluses on his hands and feet to save the Chu Kingdom, they are nothing to mention when looking at the past.
Moreover, he is deceived more than a thief and hides his ears. His merits are doubtful but not rewarded. Gods and gods are so cruel.
Therefore, the sage ran quickly to express the departure of the mischievous son; the golden version of Ke's book appeared in the court of the earth, accusing Long Feng of his injustice.
You straddle the saddle to stop crying, inspire the will of the three armies, hide the tears in solitude, and inspire the aspirations of the righteous people. Therefore, you can make the sea like the god of the sea and the god of mountain climbing, manifest the signs of prophecies and present blessings. The mountain warriors and lonely bamboos follow the horses like shadows, crusade against the guilty monarch, comfort the suffering people, and make the world rectify and put an end to chaos. Not only do you accept the merits of heaven, but it is also your own efforts.
Moreover, you are a Confucian scholar who enjoys famous teachings, has a refined appearance and superb speech, sits quietly and subdues the refined and secular people with virtue and prestige, and does not learn from Sun Wu or Wu Qi, so you have become a martial artist.
Whose credit is it for enslaving the people who are about to be wiped out, saving the customs that require burial, and keeping tortoise shells and precious jade intact?
Where will Yi Yin and Zhou Gongdan be placed as gentlemen who only receive no reward for their merits?
That's why he was ordered by Prime Minister Liang Gong.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
是日，焚东昏淫奢异服六十二种于都街。
湘东王宝晊谋反，赐死。
诏追赠梁公故夫人为梁妃。
乙丑，南兗州队主陈文兴于桓城内凿井，得玉镂骐驎、金镂玉璧、水精环各二枚。
又建康令羊瞻解称凤皇见县之桐下里。宣德皇后称美符瑞，归于相国府。
丙寅，诏： 梁国初建，宜须综理，可依旧选诸要职，悉依天朝之制。
高祖上表曰：臣闻以言取士，士饰其言，以行取人，人竭其行。所谓才生于世，穷达惟时；而风流遂往，驰骛成俗，媒孽夸炫，利尽锥刀，遂使官人之门，肩摩毂击。
岂直暴盖露冠，不避寒暑，遂乃戢屦杖策，风雨必至。
良由乡举里选，不师古始，称肉度骨，遗之管库。
加以山河梁毕，阙舆征之恩；金、张、许、史，忘旧业之替。
吁，可伤哉！
translation: 
On this day, sixty-two kinds of extravagant and extravagant costumes were burned in the city.
King Shimu of Xiangshu plotted rebellion and committed suicide.
The imperial edict decreed that the late wife of Duke Liang be posthumously given the title of Concubine Liang.
In Yichou, Chen Wenxing, the captain of the Nanyanzhou team, dug a well in Huancheng and obtained two jade-carved Qi Pian, gold-carved jade bi and two crystal rings each.
In addition, Jiankang ordered Yangzhan to explain that the phoenix appeared in Tongxiali in his county, and Queen Xuande praised the auspicious omen, and it belonged to the Prime Minister's Mansion.
Bingyin said, the edict said: "When the Liang Kingdom was founded and it needed management, all important positions could be selected according to the traditional rules, all in accordance with the imperial system."
The Emperor Gaozu said: I have heard that scholars are selected based on their words, and the scholars will modify their words; people are selected based on their actions, and they will try their best to do what they do. It is said that talents are born in the world, whether they are in trouble or mastery, and only rely on luck; As a result, the talent selection and appointment department was crowded with people coming and going.
Not only is the cover exposed and the crown exposed, not protected from the cold and heat, but also tied up and leaning on a staff, the wind and rain are bound to come.
In fact, they are elected by the township, which is illegal in ancient times. They weigh the flesh and bones and leave it to the treasury.
In addition, the country's virtuous people have been exhausted, and they lack the grace of recruitment; Jin, Zhang, Xu, and Shi have forgotten the decline of their old careers.
Hey, how sad!


Chunk 38: 
original: 
且夫谱牒讹误，诈伪多绪，人物雅俗，莫肯留心。
是以冒袭良家，即成冠族；妄修边幅，便为雅士；负俗深累，遽遭宠擢；墓木已拱，方被徽荣。
故前代选官，皆立选簿，应在贯鱼，自有铨次。
胄籍升降，行能臧否，或素定怀抱，或得之余论，故得简通宾客，无事扫门。
顷代陵夷，九流乖失。
其有勇退忘进，怀质抱真者，选部或以未经朝谒，难于进用。
或有晦善藏声，自埋衡荜，又以名不素著，绝其阶绪。
必须画刺投状，然后弹冠，则是驱迫廉捴，奖成浇竞。
愚谓自今选曹宜精隐括，依旧立簿，使冠屦无爽，名实不违，庶人识崖涘，造请自息。
且闻中间立格，甲族以二十登仕，后门以过立试吏，求之愚怀，抑有未达。
何者？
translation: 
Moreover, the books recording the family lineage are full of errors and frauds, and the characters are both elegant and vulgar.
Therefore, by pretending to inherit a noble family, one becomes a noble family; by pretentiousness, one becomes an elegant person; because he is not in harmony with the world and is ridiculed by the world, he is hastily promoted by favor; and when the tomb tree grows into a surrounding tree, he is given an honorary title.
Therefore, in previous generations, election books were established for the election of officials. Those who were registered were listed in order, and officials were selected and appointed in an orderly manner.
The promotion and decline of family status, the praise and criticism of behavioral abilities, some have been determined in advance in the mind, and some are obtained from previous opinions, so the guests can be informed and there is no need to visit the powerful.
Decline in modern times, nine grades of errors.
Those who are brave enough to retreat and forget to advance, and who hold true to their true nature may find it difficult to use them without being seen by the election department.
Some people hide their good deeds and reputation and bury themselves in simple hermit houses. They also think that their reputation is not obvious, so they cut off the ladder of advancement.
You must sign the letter and submit the document before you can become an official. This is to expel those who are forced to make concessions and contribute to the frivolous atmosphere of pursuing fame and fortune.
I think from now on the election department should conduct strict audits and still establish books. Make the crown and eunuch match, so that the name and reality are consistent, let everyone recognize the boundaries, and make the wind of visiting people disappear naturally.
Moreover, I heard that the standard set by the court is that those who come from a wealthy family should enter the official position at the age of twenty, and those who come from a humble family should not become an official until they are thirty years old. In my opinion, this may not be reasonable.
Why?


Chunk 39: 
original: 
设官分职，惟才是务。
若八元立年，居皁隶而见抑；四凶弱冠，处鼎族而宜甄。
是则世禄之家，无意为善；布衣之士，肆心为恶。
岂所以弘奖风流，希向后进？
此实巨蠹，尤宜刊革。
不然，将使周人有路傍之泣，晋臣兴渔猎之叹。
且俗长浮竞，人寡退情，若限岁登朝，必增年就宦，故貌实昏童，籍已逾立，滓秽名教，于斯为甚。
臣总司内外，忧责是任，朝政得失，义不容隐。
伏愿陛下垂圣淑之姿，降听览之末，则彝伦自穆，宪章惟允。
诏依高祖表施行。
丙戌，诏曰：嵩高惟岳，配天所以流称；大启南阳，霸德所以光阐。
忠诚简帝，番君膺上爵之尊；勤劳王室，姬公增附庸之地。
前王令典，布诸方策，长祚字，罔不由此。
相国梁公，体兹上哲，齐圣广渊。
文教内洽，武功外畅。
translation: 
Set up palaces and separate duties, and only seek talented people.
If the Eight Yuan is in the third year of his life, he is in a lowly position and is suppressed; if the Four Fierce is around twenty years old, he is selected because he is in a prominent family.
Such and such a wealthy family has no intention of doing good; a commoner man does evil wantonly.
How to vigorously reward outstanding people and attract underachievers?
This is indeed a big borer, especially for leather removal.
Otherwise, the people of the Zhou Dynasty would weep on the roadside, and the officials of the Jin Dynasty would lament the looting.
Moreover, the secular world has become more and more superficial and competitive, and people rarely have the humility to give in. If the age is restricted to serve in the court, it will inevitably increase the age of official entry. Therefore, it seems that he is an ignorant boy, but the age recorded in the book is already passed, which tarnishes the famous religion.
I am the prime minister, both inside and outside the court, and I shoulder this responsibility to ensure the success and failure of the government. Integrity cannot be hidden.
I sincerely hope that Your Majesty will show a sage and virtuous attitude, and listen attentively to things and read the text, so that the law will always be peaceful and the system will be fair.
The edict was carried out according to the instructions given by Emperor Gaozu.
Bingxu issued an edict: "Songgao Mountain is called this mountain because it matches the sky; in Nanyang, great righteousness is achieved, and the domineering power is prosperous."
Loyalty chooses the emperor, and Fan Jun is honored with a superior title; he works hard for the royal family, and Ji Gong increases the number of lands attached to him.
The laws of the previous emperors were published in simple books, which made the country's fortunes long-term and governed the people.
The prime minister, Liang Gong, inherited the previous philosophy and possessed the four virtues of Qi Sheng and Guang Yuan.
Culture and education are immersed internally, and martial arts are promoted externally.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
推毂作籓，则威怀被于殊俗；治兵教战，则霆雷赫于万里。
道丧时昏，谗邪孔炽。
岂徒宗社如缀，神器莫主而已哉！
至于兆庶歼亡，衣冠殄灭，余类残喘，指命崇朝，含生业业，投足无所，遂乃山川反覆，草木涂地。
与夫仁被行苇之时，信及豚鱼之日，何其辽夐相去之远欤！
公命师鞠旅，指景长骛。
而本朝危切，樊、邓遐远，凶徒盘据，水陆相望，爰自姑孰，屈于夏首，严城劲卒，凭川为固。
公沿汉浮江，电激风扫，舟徒水覆，地险云倾，藉兹义勇，前无强阵，拯危京邑，清我帝畿，扑既燎于原火，免将诛于比屋。悠悠兆庶，命不在天；茫茫六合，咸受其赐。
匡俗正本，民不失职。
仁信并行，礼乐同畅。
translation: 
If you assist the vassals, your might and virtue will spread to distant places with different customs; if you organize the army and train for battle, the thunder will shine thousands of miles away.
The great road is in ruins and the world is in chaos, and slanderous and evil people are rampant.
It's just that the ancestral temple and the country are in danger, and the political power has no owner!
As a result, the people were wiped out, the scholar-bureaucrats were slaughtered, and the surviving ones were barely able to survive. The order was short-lived, the people were in danger, and there was no place to stand. As a result, the mountains and rivers were overturned, and the grass and trees were covered with grass.
How far away we are from the days when charity extended to the reeds by the roadside, and when faith extended to the humble pigs and fishes!
You swore to issue the order to go out and march on the expedition in no time.
However, this dynasty is in crisis, Fandi and Zhangdi are far away, ferocious bandits are occupying the territory, water and land are flowing one after another, starting from the garbage school and reaching Xia Zhi, there are heavily guarded cities and fierce and powerful defenders everywhere, relying on the rivers to form a stronghold.
You sail down the Han River and above the Yangtze River, and the strong wind sweeps like lightning, and the enemy navy capsizes like water. The danger is like a cloud collapsing. With this bravery and invincibility, he can save the capital from danger, clear the capital area, put out the fire that has been burning in the wilderness, and avoid the massacre of many people who are about to spread. The destiny is not in the sky; the vast universe is blessed by it.
If the customs are kept true, the people will not lose their usual vocation.
Benevolence, faith, and justice are practiced at the same time, and rituals and music are smooth at the same time.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
伊、周未足方轨，桓、文远有惭德。而爵后籓牧，地终秦、楚，非所以式酬光烈，允答元勋。
实由公履谦为本，形于造次，嘉数未申，晦朔增伫。
便宜崇斯礼秩，允副遐迩之望。
可进梁公爵为王。
以豫州之南谯、卢江、江州之寻阳、郢州之武昌、西阳、南徐州之南琅邪、南东海、晋陵、扬州之临海、永嘉十郡，益梁国，并前为二十郡。
其相国、扬州牧、骠骑大将军如故。公固辞。
有诏断表。
相国左长史王莹等率百僚敦请。
三月辛卯，延陵县华阳逻主戴车牒称云： 十二月乙酉，甘露降茅山，弥漫数里。
正月己酉，逻将潘道盖于山石穴中得毛龟一。
二月辛酉，逻将徐灵符又于山东见白麞一。
丙寅平旦，山上云雾四合，须臾有玄黄之色，状如龙形，长十余丈，乍隐乍显，久乃从西北升天。
丁卯，兗州刺史马元和签： 所领东平郡寿张县见驺虞一。
癸巳，受梁王之命。
translation: 
Yi Yin and Zhou Gongdan are not equal to each other, and they will be far away from shouldering the responsibility and setting up fortresses. They will feel guilty because of their words and deeds. However, the territory of the knighted land is limited to Qin and Chu. It cannot be used to reward great achievements and repay the heroes.
It is true that because you are based on the virtue of humility, it appears in a moment, good luck has not been announced, and expectations are increasing day and night.
Consider matters and increase their rank in an informal manner to meet the expectations of both near and far.
You can enter the title of Duke Liang and become the king.
Ten counties including Nanqiao Lujiang in Yuzhou, Xunyang in Jiangzhou, Wuchang Xiyang in Yingzhou, Nanlangli Nanshuhai Jinling in southern Xuzhou, and Linhai Yongjia in Yangzhou were added to the Liang Kingdom's territory, and together with the previous ones, there were twenty counties.
His duties as Prime Minister, Yangzhou Mu, and Hussar General remained as before.
Gaozu firmly refused.
There was an edict to refuse to accept the resignation letter. Wang Ying, the left chief minister of the Prime Minister, and others led hundreds of officials to plead with him.
On the Xinmao day of March, the leader of Huayang Luo in Yanling County drove a car and wrote a letter saying: On the Yiyou day of the twelfth month, dew fell on Maoshan Mountain and spread for several miles.
On the first day of the first lunar month, Luo covered Pan Dao in a cave in the mountain and wrapped him in a turtle.
On Xinyou day in February, Siam general Xu Lingfu saw another white deer on the edge of the mountain.
In the early morning of Bingyin, the clouds and mist on the mountain were surrounded by clouds and mist. Soon they became dark and yellow in color and looked like a dragon. They were as many as ten feet tall and appeared and disappeared. It took a long time to rise to the sky from the northwest.
Ding Mao, Ma Yuanhe, the governor of Yanzhou, signed: A tiger was found in Shouzhang County, Dongping County under his jurisdiction.
Guisi, accepted the edict of the king of Liang.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
令曰： 孤以虚昧，任执国钧，虽夙夜勤止，念在兴治，而育德振民，邈然尚远。
圣朝永言旧式，隆此眷命。
侯伯盛典，方轨前烈，嘉锡隆被，礼数昭崇。
徒守愿节，终隔体谅。
群后百司，重兹敦奖，勉兹厚颜，当此休祚。
望昆、彭以长想，钦桓、文而叹息，思弘政涂，莫知津济。
邦甸初启，籓宇惟新，思覃嘉庆，被之下国。
国内殊死以下，今月十五日昧爽以前，一皆原赦。
鳏寡孤独不能自存者，赐谷五斛。
府州所统，亦同蠲荡。
丙午，命王冕十有二旒，建天子旌旗，出警入跸，乘金根车，驾六马，备五时副车，置旄头云罕，乐舞八佾，设钟鋋宫县。
王妃王子王女爵命之号，一依旧仪。丙辰，齐帝禅位于梁王。
translation: 
He ordered: I am in charge of the state affairs with vanity and ignorance. Although I work hard day and night and am determined to promote governance, I am still far away from cultivating virtue and benefiting the people.
The Holy Dynasty will always speak of the previous regulations, solemnly express its great love and entrust it with important responsibilities.
The grand grace of the princes is as grand as that of the predecessors; the rewards from the court are generous and generous, and the etiquette system is clearly respected.
I tried in vain to uphold the virtue of respect, but finally failed to understand.
Hundreds of officials and officials highly recommended him, so they tried their best to accept the throne shamelessly.
Looking at Kunwu and Peng Zu from afar, I reminisce about them. I admire Zhadan and admire the beauty of the fortress. I think about the great political road, but I don't know where the Jindu is.
The area under the jurisdiction of the capital was initially expanded, and the vassal state was renewed. It was auspicious and festive, and it was widely known all over the world.
All prisoners under death row who have been beheaded in the country will be pardoned before dawn on the 15th of this month.
Those who are widowed and lonely and unable to make a living are rewarded with five husks of grain.
Government offices under the jurisdiction of prefectures and prefectures are also exempted.
On Bingwu, Wang Mian was ordered to hang twelve strings of jade beads on his front and back, set up a thousand banners in the sky, warn the clear road when entering and exiting, and prohibit pedestrians when entering and exiting. He took a golden root chariot with six horses, equipped with five-color auxiliary chariots to accompany the emperor's chariot, set up flags with lanterns, eight hundred people danced with music, and set up Zhongyu Palace Hanging.
The title of a princess, a prince, a princess, a title, or a title. All in accordance with the previous rituals, Bingchen changed Tongchan and gave up the throne to King Liang.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
诏曰：夫五德更始，三正迭兴，驭物资贤，登庸启圣，故帝迹所以代昌，王度所以改耀，革晦以明，由来尚矣。
齐德沦微，危亡荐袭。
隆昌凶虐，实违天地；永元昏暴，取紊人神。
三光再沉，七庙如缀。
鼎业几移，含识知泯。
我高、明之祚，眇焉将坠。
永惟屯难，冰谷载怀。
相国梁王，天诞睿哲，神纵灵武，德格玄祇，功均造物。
止宗社之横流，反生民之涂炭。
扶倾颓构之下，拯溺逝川之中。
九区重缉，四维更纽。绝礼还纪，崩乐复张。
文馆盈绅，戎亭息警。
浃海宇以驰风，罄轮裳而禀朔。
八表呈祥，五灵效祉。
岂止鳞羽祯奇，云星瑞色而已哉！
translation: 
The edict states: The five virtues of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth alternate over and over again. Xia Zheng, Yin Zheng, Zheng Zheng, and Zhou Zheng rise alternately. The people are governed by sages, and the sage is revealed through selection and appointment. Therefore, the emperor's performance changes and prospers, and the king's virtues and instruments shine in turn. It has been a long time coming to replace the darkness with light.
The fortunes of Southern Qi declined and dangers came one after another.
During the Longchang period, he was ferocious and cruel, which was contrary to heaven and earth; during the Yongyuan period, he was confused and violent, disturbing the gods.
The moon and stars set again, and the seven temples were in ruins and danger.
The great cause of the emperor was almost destroyed, and all sentient beings knew it would be wiped out.
The fortunes of my Emperor Gao and Emperor Ming are about to fall.
Always think about difficulties and be cautious as if facing dangerous situations.
King Liang of the Xiangguo Kingdom, a born saint, gifted with power by the gods, whose virtues moved the gods, and whose achievements were equal to those of the Creator.
Contain the turmoil in the country and save the people from the fire. Save the crisis, save the crisis.
Kyushu united again, and the four parties were re-consolidated.
The discarded rituals were restored, the ruined music was played again.
The library is full of gentlemen, and the border guards sound off.
The teachings were spread throughout the country, and all the places where the car went showed surrender.
The farthest places present auspiciousness, and the five supernatural black beasts, lin, phoenix, turtle, dragon, and white tiger, present blessings.
It's just that the fish and crow are auspicious and strange, and the nebula is auspicious!


Chunk 44: 
original: 
勋茂于百王，道昭乎万代，固以明配上天，光华日月者也。
河狱表革命之符，图谶纪代终之运。
乐推之心，幽显共积；歌颂之诚，华裔同著。
昔水政既微，木德升绪，天之历数，实有所归，握镜璇枢，允集明哲。
朕虽庸蔽，暗于大道，永鉴崇替，为日已久，敢忘列代之高义，人祇之至愿乎！
今便敬禅于梁，即安姑孰，依唐虞、晋宋故事。
四月辛酉，宣德皇后令曰：
西诏至，帝宪章前代，敬禅神器于梁。
明可临轩遣使，恭授玺绂，未亡人便归于别宫。
壬戌，策曰：咨尔梁王：惟昔邃古之载，肇有生民，皇雄、大庭之辟，赫胥、尊卢之后，斯并龙图鸟迹以前，慌忽杳冥之世，固无得而详焉。
洎乎农、轩、炎、皞之代，放勋、重华之主，莫不以大道君万姓，公器御八枿。
居之如执朽索，去之若捐重负。
一驾汾阳，便有窅然之志；暂适箕岭，即动让王之心。
translation: 
His meritorious deeds have flourished among hundreds of kings, and his morality has been revealed to all generations. Therefore, his brilliance is compared with the heavens and shines on the sun and the moon.
The Yellow River and Mount Tai are signs of revolution, and prophecies describe the fate of the old dynasty that will be replaced.
The heart of willing support is shared between the underworld and the world; the sincerity of singing praises and virtues is shared by the Central Plains and remote areas.
In the past, the governance of water virtues has declined, and the order of wood virtues has risen. The emperor's order of governing the people on behalf of heaven has actually returned. The emperor is appointed by heaven to control the key points and gather wise and wise men.
Although I am vulgar and ignorant, I do not know the way. However, we have been observing the ups and downs for a long time. How can we dare to forget the upright principles of the past and the greatest wishes of man and God?
Now he respectfully handed over the throne to the King of Liang, and then settled in Gushu, according to the old practice of Tang Yao giving the Zen throne to Yu Shun and Shu Jin to Liu Song.
On the Xinyou day of April, Queen Xuande ordered:
When Xishao arrived, the emperor followed the example of the previous generation and respectfully offered the throne of Zen to King Liang.
Tomorrow I can send an envoy to the front hall to honor you with the seal and ribbon, and then I will return to the other palace.
On the day of Renxu, he issued an order: King Liang: In the ancient times, there were human beings. The emperors of Fuxian and Taiting, the kings of Zhao Gui and Manlu were all in a confusing era before the dragon map and bird traces, so it is impossible to know their situation in detail.
By the time of Shennong, Xuanyuan, Emperor Yan, and Taihou, the emperors Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty all ruled the people with the right way, and talented people managed far-flung places in all directions.
When I was in the position, I was cautious and fearful when things were in danger. After I left the position, I felt relieved.
As soon as he arrived in Fenyang, he had far-reaching ambitions; when he arrived in Jiling, he was tempted to give way to the king.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
故知戴黄屋，服玉玺，非所以示贵称尊；乘大辂，建旗旌，盖欲令归趣有地。
是故忘己而字兆民，殉物而君四海。
及于精华内竭，畚橇外劳，则抚兹归运，惟能是与。
况兼乎笙管革文，威图启瑞，摄提夜朗，荧光昼发者哉！
四百告终，有汉所以高揖；黄德既谢，魏氏所以乐推。
爰及晋、宋，亦弘斯典。
我太祖握《河》受历，应符启运，二叶重光，三圣系轨。
嗣君丧德，昏弃纪度，毁紊天纲，凋绝地纽。茫茫九域，剪为仇仇，溥天相顾，命县晷刻。
斫涉刳孕，于事已轻；求鸡徵杖，曾何足譬。
是以谷满川枯，山飞鬼哭，七庙已危，人神无主。
translation: 
Because he knows that living in the palace and wearing jade seals are not to show his dignity; riding in a big chariot and setting up banners are just to make his fingers go somewhere.
Therefore, he forgets himself and nurtures the people, and devotes himself to his career to rule the world.
When the vitality is exhausted internally and the physical strength is exhausted externally, then follow the destiny that comes at the right time. Let the capable people.
Moreover, there is music to change the complicated festivals. The majestic "River Map" has opened up the auspiciousness, photographing the stars at night and shining brightly during the day!
Four hundred years have come to an end, so the Han people bowed their hands and said goodbye; Tutu virtue has declined, so the Wei family is willing to support it.
In the Eastern Jin Dynasty and Liu Song Dynasty, these allusions were also carried forward.
My great ancestor holds the "River Map" to accept the imperial destiny, fulfills the destiny and opens up the imperial destiny. The second generation inherits the glory of virtue, and the three holy emperors inherit the previous legacy.
Later, the emperor who succeeded to the throne lost his morality, became confused and abandoned the laws, destroyed the heaven and earth, and lost the discipline of the earth. The vast nine states were treated as enemies and were cut off, and everyone in the world looked down upon each other, and their lives were in danger.
Cutting off the gallbladder of a person wading in the winter moon, dissecting the fetus of a pregnant woman, are nothing compared to sending a message; asking for a chicken to sign a stick is nothing more.
Therefore, corpses litter the fields, rivers have dried up, and tragic and shrill cries are floating in the mountains. The dynasty is in danger, and people and gods have no master.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
惟王体兹上哲，明圣在躬，禀灵五纬，明并日月。
彝伦攸序，则端冕而协邕熙；时难孔棘，则推锋而拯涂炭。
功逾造物，德济苍生，泽无不渐，仁无不被，上达苍昊，下及川泉。
文教与鹏翼齐举，武功与日车并运。
固以幽显宅心，讴讼斯属；岂徒桴鼓播地，卿云丛天而已哉！
至如昼睹争明，夜飞枉矢，土沦彗刺，日既星亡，除旧之征必显，更姓之符允集。
是以义师初践，芳露凝甘，仁风既被，素文自扰，北阙藁街之使，风车火徼之民，膜拜稽首，愿为臣妾。
钟石毕变，事表于迁虞；蛟鱼并出，义彰于事夏。
translation: 
The King of Liang inherited the lineage of the sages and had the character of a wise sage. He was adhering to the aura of the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire and earth, and his wisdom was comparable to that of the sun and the moon.
If the moral order is always orderly, he will wear mysterious clothes and big crowns to help the peace and prosperity of the world; if the times are difficult, he will go to war to save the people from misery.
Those whose merits exceed those of creation, whose benevolence and kindness benefit the people, who are nourished by virtue and benevolence, and who receive all benevolence and benefits, reaching up to the sky and down to the rivers and springs.
Culture, education and Oupeng spread their wings and fly together, martial arts and the sun keep pace with each other.
Originally, it was because the underworld and the earth were attached to each other, and the singers and the litigants came one after another. Is it just that the plants were quickly planted, and the auspicious clouds gathered in the sky?
As for the stars competing for brightness in the day, meteors flying by at night, Saturn sinking and comets piercing the sky, solar eclipses and stars dying, the signs of eradicating the old are gone, and the signs of changing the direction are gathering.
Therefore, the righteous teacher has just begun, the fragrant dew has gathered sweetness, the wind of benevolence has spread, the previous laws and regulations have become chaotic, foreign envoys in the forbidden city, and people around the flames of hand-operated fans worship the head and are willing to serve as ministers.
The joy of the bells and chimes has changed, and the incident indicates that the emperor's throne has been transferred. The dragon and the fish appear together, which is intended to indicate that he will serve the Xia Dynasty.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
若夫长民御众，为之司牧，本同己于万物，乃因心于百姓。
宝命无常主，帝王非一族。
今仰祗乾象，俯藉人愿，敬禅神器，授帝位于尔躬。
大祚告穷，天禄永终。
於戏！
王允执其中，式遵前典，以副昊天之望。
禋上帝而临亿兆，格文祖而膺大业，以传无疆之祚，岂不盛欤！
又玺书曰：夫生者天地之大德，人者含生之通称，并首同本，未知所以异也。
而禀灵造化，贤愚之情不一；托性五常，强柔之分或舛。
群后靡一，争犯交兴，是故建君立长，用相司牧。
非谓尊骄在上，以天下为私者也。
兼以三正迭改，五运相迁，绿文赤字，徵《河》表《洛》。
在昔勋、华，深达兹义，眷求明哲，授以蒸民。
迁虞事夏，本因心于百姓；化殷为周，实受命于苍昊。
爰自汉、魏，罔不率由；降及晋、宋，亦遵斯典。
我高皇所以格文祖而抚归运，畏上天而恭宝历者也。
translation: 
As for ruling the people, as their monarch, he should make himself one with all things and comply with the wishes of the people.
There is no permanent master of destiny, and emperors do not come from one surname or one clan.
Now I respect the celestial phenomena, bow to the hearts of the people, respectfully surrender my political power, and confer the throne on you.
The emperor's fortune was poor and his throne ended forever.
Alas!
Your words and deeds should be consistent with the impartial and righteous way, follow the laws of the past, and conform to the will of God.
Isn't it very prosperous to sacrifice to God and rule the people, to go to Taizu Temple to inherit the emperor's inheritance, and to pass on the emperor's throne?
He also wrote a seal saying: Fertility is a great merit of heaven and earth, and human beings are the general term for higher-level creatures. They originally have the same origin, and it is unknown what the difference is.
However, adhering to the spirit of nature, the situations of virtuous and ignorant are different; the five kinds of moral ethics of nature, the difference between strong and weak may be different.
The princes in the four directions were not unified and fighting broke out. Therefore, a monarch was established to rule and manage.
It’s not about being noble, arrogant and aloof, and treating the world as one’s own selfish interests.
Moreover, the main title of Xia Zhibi was changed, and the fortune of the five virtues of the dynasty was gradually transferred. The book of pictures and prophecies published by Jiang Hui fulfilled the "He Tu" and "Luo Shu".
In the past, Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty understood this meaning deeply. He who earnestly seeks wisdom and prudence entrusts his people to him.
To return to Lu Ai and serve Xingqiao was to comply with the wishes of the people; to turn the Yin Dynasty into a hurricane was actually to be ordered by heaven.
In the Han and Wei dynasties, everyone continued to use it; until the setting and shaping of the plugs, this code was still followed.
This is the reason why I, Emperor Zhi, understood that Wenzu followed the fate that came with time, feared God, and respected the throne.


Chunk 48: 
original: 
至于季世，祸乱荐臻，王度纷纠，奸回炽积。
亿兆夷人，刀俎为命，已然之逼，若线之危，跼天蹐地，逃形无所。
群凶挟煽，志逞残戮，将欲先殄衣冠，次移龟鼎。
衡、保、周、召，并列宵人。
巢幕累卵，方此非切。
自非英圣远图，仁为己任，则鸱枭厉吻，剪焉已及。
惟王崇高则天，博厚仪地，熔铸六合，陶甄万有。
锋驲交驰，振灵武以遐略；云雷方扇，鞠义旅以勤王。
扬旍旆于远路，戮奸宄于魏阙。
德冠往初，功无与二。
弘济艰难，缉熙王道。
怀柔万姓，经营四方。
举直措枉，较如画一。
待旦同乎殷后，日昃过于周文。
风化肃穆，礼乐交畅。
加以赦过宥罪，神武不杀，盛德昭于景纬，至义感于鬼神。
若夫纳彼大麓，膺此归运，烈风不迷，乐推攸在。
治五韪于已乱，重九鼎于既轻。
自声教所及，车书所至，革面回首，讴吟德泽。
translation: 
In the last days, disasters will come one after another, the king's laws will be disturbed, and the evil and evil people will gather together in close collusion.
Many people from various tribes in the Shubu area were violently and intimidated for the fish meat under the knife and on the chopping board. Their lives were in danger, and the people were terrified and had nowhere to hide.
The gang of thugs are rampant and killing wantonly. They will prepare to kill the scholar-bureaucrats first and then seize the throne.
Hengzai, Taibao, Qie Gong and Chou Gong were all classified as villains.
Even if the nest is full of eggs, it cannot describe this dangerous situation.
If it were not for the wise saint who had a far-reaching strategy and took kindness and help as his duty, then the greedy and evil man would have taken the poison and the fate of destruction would have come.
The king of Liang noblely imitated heaven, acquired the law and earth, taught the world, and cultivated all things.
Cars and horses conveying relevant military documents kept coming and going, and they promoted their power with far-sightedness. In times of danger and danger, they led their righteous troops to serve the king.
Raise the banner in the distance and slay the rebels in the palace.
Morality outweighs the past, and merit comes first.
Help people in need and promote the kingly way.
Win over and appease the people, plan the camp and govern the four directions.
It is clear and consistent to appoint the upright and depose the treacherous.
Sitting and waiting for dawn is like the empress of Yin Dynasty, and forgetting to eat every day is more than Zhou Wen.
The customs are solemn and orderly, and the rituals and music interact smoothly.
In addition, forgiveness and forgiveness of sins can be used to conquer the world with good and bad fortunes without punishment, virtues and virtues can shine like stars, and the ultimate sense of justice can communicate with ghosts and gods.
As for the matter of leading the Green Heavenly Son, accepting the destiny that comes at the right time, facing the strong wind without being confused, and being willing to support this is the key.
To restore order to the five climates that have been disturbed, and to add weight to the already weak state power.
The place where prestige educates people, where the imperial system is implemented, they change their appearance and submit.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
九山灭祲，四渎安流。
祥风扇起，淫雨静息。
玄甲游于芳荃，素文驯于郊苑。
跃九川于清汉，鸣六象于高岗。
灵瑞杂沓，玄符昭著。
至于星孛紫宫，水效孟月，飞鸿满野，长彗横天，取新之应既昭，革故之征必显。
加以天表秀特，轩状尧姿；君临之符，谅非一揆。《书》云： 天鉴厥德，用集大命。 《诗》云： 文王在上，於昭于天。
所以二仪乃眷，幽明允叶，岂惟宅是万邦，缉兹讴讼而已哉！
朕是用拥璇沉首，属怀圣哲。
昔水行告厌，我太祖既受命代终；在日天禄云谢，亦以木德而传于梁。
远寻前典，降惟近代，百辟遐迩，莫违朕心。
translation: 
Praise kindness. The mountains of Kyushu have eliminated evil spirit, and the Yangtze River, Yellow River, Huaihe River, and Jishui River flow slowly and steadily.
The auspicious wind blows and the long rain subsides.
Black crustaceans swim among the fragrant grass and herbs, and "Spring and Autumn" is expounded in the literary garden on the outskirts.
From the great rivers of Kyushu, one rises to the sky, and on the high mountains there is a phoenix called an island.
There are many auspicious signs displayed by the heavens, and the auspicious symbols are clearly revealed.
As for comets appearing in Ziweiyuan, floods appearing in Mengyue, flying giant insects filling the fields, and long comets sweeping across the sky, signs of renewal have appeared, and signs of renewal must appear.
In addition, the king of Liang has an outstanding emperor's appearance, and Xuanyuan's appearance is like that of Yu Shun; the signs of being dominated by the king are indeed different. "Shangshu" says: God clearly recognizes his virtue and therefore gathers the destiny. The Book of Songs says: King Wen is above, and it is revealed to heaven.
Is the reason for the grace and harmony of heaven and earth just encompassing the whole world and gathering singers and litigants?
Therefore, I held the beautiful jade and bowed my head in meditation, remembering the sage.
In the past, when the virtue of water declined, my great ancestor accepted the destiny to replace the old dynasty. When I was alive, the throne of the emperor declined, and he passed on the throne with virtue of wood.
I search for ancient scriptures from far away, and think about the modern times. I have hundreds of officials far and near, and don’t go against my heart.


Chunk 50: 
original: 
今遣使持节、兼太保、侍中、中书监、兼尚书令汝南县开国侯亮，兼太尉、散骑常侍、中书令新吴县开国侯志，奉皇帝玺绂。
受终之礼，一依唐虞故事。
王其陟兹元后，君临万方，式传洪烈，以答上天之休命！
高祖抗表陈让，表不获通。
于是，齐百官豫章王元琳等八百一十九人，及梁台侍中臣云等一百一十七人，并上表劝进，高祖谦让不受。
是日，太史令蒋道秀陈天文符谶六十四条，事并明著。群臣重表固请，乃从之。
translation: 
The envoys Chijie, Taibao, Shizhong, Zhongshujian, and Shangshuling, the founding lord of Runan County, Wang Liang, and Taiwei, Sanqi Changshi, and Zhongshuling, the founding lord of Xinwu County, Wang Zhi, are now sent to present the emperor's seal and ribbon.
The ceremony of accepting the throne was all based on the precedent of Tang Yao Tang who gave way to Lu Tan.
King Luan please ascend to the throne of emperor, rule all over the world, inherit the great achievements, and use it to repay God for his good destiny!
Emperor Gaozu submitted a memorial to the emperor to express his humility, but the memorial was not approved.
At this time, 819 people including Yuzhang, Wang Yuanlin and other officials of the Southern Qi Dynasty, as well as 117 people including Xiao Yun, the minister of the Liang Prince's Office, came forward to persuade them to join, but Gaozu Qianyang refused to accept it.
On the same day, Taishi ordered the blue sculpture to display a total of sixty-four astronomical phenomena and Fu Yuan prophecies. The things described were all clear and obvious. The ministers again petitioned, and Gaozu obeyed.


