Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 4, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴太伯，太伯弟仲雍，皆周太王之子，而王季历之兄也。
季历贤，而有圣子昌，太王欲立季历以及昌，于是太伯、仲雍二人乃奔荆蛮，文身断发，示不可用，以避季历。
季历果立，是为王季，而昌为文王。
太伯之奔荆蛮，自号句吴。
荆蛮义之，从而归之千余家，立为吴太伯。
太伯卒，无子，弟仲雍立，是为吴仲雍。
仲雍卒，子季简立。
季简卒，子叔达立。
叔达卒，子周章立。
是时周武王克殷，求太伯、仲雍之后，得周章。
周章已君吴，因而封之。
乃封周章弟虞仲于周之北故夏虚，是为虞仲，列为诸侯。
周章卒，子熊遂立。
熊遂卒，子柯相立。
柯相卒，子强鸠夷立。
强鸠夷卒，子余桥疑吾立。
余桥疑吾卒，子柯卢立。
柯卢卒，子周繇立。
周繇卒，子屈羽立。
屈羽卒，子夷吾立。
夷吾卒，子禽处立。
禽处卒，子转立。
转卒，子颇高立。
颇高卒，子句卑立。
是时晋献公灭周北虞公，以开晋伐虢也。
句卑卒，子去齐立。
去齐卒，子寿梦立。
寿梦立而吴始益大，称王。
自太伯作吴，五世而武王克殷，封其后为二：其一虞，在中国；其一吴，在夷蛮。
十二世而晋灭中国之虞。
中国之虞灭二世，而夷蛮之吴兴。
大凡从太伯至寿梦十九世。
王寿梦二年，楚之亡大夫申公巫臣怨楚将子反而奔晋，自晋使吴，教吴用兵乘车，令其子为吴行人，吴于是始通于中国。
吴伐楚。
十六年，楚共王伐吴，至衡山。
二十五年，王寿梦卒。
寿梦有子四人，长曰诸樊，次曰余祭，次曰余眜，次曰季札。
季札贤，而寿梦欲立之，季札让不可，于是乃立长子诸樊，摄行事当国。
王诸樊元年，诸樊已除丧，让位季札。
季札谢曰： 曹宣公之卒也，诸侯与曹人不义曹君，将立子臧，子臧去之，以成曹君，君子曰 能守节矣 。
君义嗣，谁敢干君！
有国，非吾节也。
translation: 
Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were both sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou, and brothers of Ji Li, King of Zhou.
Ji Li was very virtuous and had a virtuous son Chang. The Taiwang wanted to establish Ji Li in order to pass the throne to Chang, so Tai Bo and Zhong Yong went to the land of Jingman. Like the local barbarians, they covered their bodies with tattoos and cut their hair to show that they could no longer inherit the throne, so as to avoid Ji Li.
Ji Li succeeded to the throne as Wang Ji, and Chang later became King Wen.
After Taibo fled to Jingman, he called himself Wu Ju.
The Jingman people believed that he was very righteous, and more than a thousand households followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu.
Taibo died without a son, and his younger brother Zhongyong succeeded him; he was Wu Zhongyong.
Zhongyong died and his son Ji Jian succeeded to the throne.
Ji Jian died and his son Shuda succeeded him.
Shuda died and his son Zhou Zhang succeeded to the throne.
At that time, King Wu defeated Yin Zhou and was looking for the descendants of Tai Bo and Zhong Yong, and found Zhou Zhang.
Zhou Zhang was already the monarch of Wu, so King Wu officially granted him the land of Wu.
He also enfeoffed Zhou Zhang's younger brother Yu Zhong to the former site of the Xia capital in the north of Zhou Dynasty. He was named Yu Zhong and ranked among the princes.
Zhou Zhang died and his son Xiong Sui succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Sui died, and his son Ke succeeded him.
Ke Xiang died and his son Qiang Jiuyi succeeded to the throne.
Qiang Jiuyi died, and his son Yu Qiaoxinwu succeeded to the throne.
Yu Qiao Xinwu died, and his son Ke Lu succeeded to the throne.
Ke Lu died and his son Zhou Yao succeeded him.
Zhou Yao died and his son Qu Yu succeeded him.
Qu Yu died and his son Yi Wu succeeded him.
Yiwu died and his son Qinchu succeeded him.
Qin Chu died and his son succeeded him.
After his death, his son Po Gao succeeded him.
Po Gao died and his son Goubei succeeded him.
At this time, Duke Xian of Jin destroyed Duke Yu who was north of the Zhou Dynasty, because Duke Yu lent a road to the Jin State, allowing the Jin army to destroy the Guo State.
Goubei died, and his son went to Qi to succeed him.
Qu Qi died, and his son Shou Meng succeeded to the throne.
After Shou Meng succeeded to the throne, the Kingdom of Wu began to become stronger, and Shou Meng called himself the king.
Counting from Taibo's founding of the Kingdom of Wu to the fifth generation, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty and named his descendants two kingdoms: one was the Kingdom of Yu, in the Central Plains, and the other was the Kingdom of Wu, in the barbarian zone.
By the twelfth generation, the Jin State destroyed the Yu State in the Central Plains.
Two more generations later, the state of Wu in the barbarian region became prosperous.
In total, it has been passed down to nineteen generations from Taibo to Shoumeng.
In the second year of King Shoumeng of Wu, the exiled official Shen Gong Wuchen of the Chu State defected to the Jin State because he was resentful of the generals of the Chu State.
Later, Wu State began to send troops to conquer Chu State.
In the 16th year, the king of the Communist Party of Chu conquered the state of Wu and reached Mount Heng.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Wu Shoumeng passed away.
Shoumeng had four sons: the eldest son was named Zhufan, the second son was named Yuji, the third son was named Yumei, and the fourth son was named Jizha.
Ji Zha was a virtuous man, and Shou Meng wanted him to succeed him during his lifetime, but Ji Zha evaded and refused to agree, so he let his eldest son Zhufan succeed him, prime minister of various affairs, and take charge of state affairs on his behalf.
In the first year of King Zhufan of Wu, Zhufan removed his mourning clothes after the period of mourning and wanted to give up the throne to Jizha.
Ji Zha declined and said: When Cao Xuangong passed away, the princes of various countries and the people of Cao State thought that the newly established Lord Cao was unjust, and wanted to make Zang Zang the Lord of Cao. Zizang left the State of Cao so that Lord Cao could continue to reign. The gentleman commented on Zizang that he was able to observe integrity.
As the eldest son, you are the legitimate successor. Who dares to offend you?
Being a king is not what I should be doing.
summary:
Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou. Because their father wished to pass the throne to their younger brother Ji Li, and eventually to Ji Li's virtuous son Chang, Taibo and Zhong Yong fled to the land of Jingman. There, they adopted local customs by tattooing their bodies and cutting their hair to show they could not inherit the throne. The Jingman people, finding Taibo righteous, followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu. Taibo died without a son, and Zhong Yong succeeded him. The lineage continued until Zhou Zhang, who was officially granted the land of Wu by King Wu of Zhou after he defeated the Yin dynasty. The kingdom of Wu was passed down through generations, eventually becoming prosperous under King Shoumeng, who was the nineteenth generation from Taibo.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
十七年，王余祭卒，弟余眜立。
王余眜二年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王代立焉。
四年，王余眜卒，欲授弟季札。
季札让，逃去。
于是吴人曰： 先王有命，兄卒弟代立，必致季子。
季子今逃位，则王余眜后立。
今卒，其子当代。
乃立王余眜之子僚为王。
王僚二年，公子光伐楚，败而亡王舟。
光惧，袭楚，复得王舟而还。
五年，楚之亡臣伍子胥来奔，公子光客之。
公子光者，王诸樊之子也。
常以为吾父兄弟四人，当传至季子。
季子即不受国，光父先立。
即不传季子，光当立。
阴纳贤士，欲以袭王僚。
八年，吴使公子光伐楚，败楚师，迎楚故太子建母于居巢以归。
因北伐，败陈、蔡之师。
九年，公子光伐楚，拔居巢、钟离。
初，楚边邑卑梁氏之处女与吴边邑之女争桑，二女家怒相灭，两国边邑长闻之，怒而相攻，灭吴之边邑。
吴王怒，故遂伐楚，取两都而去。
伍子胥之初奔吴，说吴王僚以伐楚之利。
公子光曰： 胥之父兄为僇于楚，欲自报其仇耳。
未见其利。 于是伍员知光有他志，乃求勇士专诸，是之光。
光喜，乃客伍子胥。
子胥退而耕于野，以待专诸之事。
十二年冬，楚平王卒。
十三年春，吴欲因楚丧而伐之，使公子盖余、烛庸以兵围楚之六、灊。使季札于晋，以观诸侯之变。
楚发兵绝吴兵后，吴兵不得还。
于是吴公子光曰： 此时不可失也。
告专诸曰： 不索何获！
我真王嗣，当立，吾欲求之。
季子虽至，不吾废也。
专诸曰： 王僚可杀也。母老子弱，而两公子将兵攻楚，楚绝其路。
方今吴外困于楚，而内空无骨鲠之臣，是无柰我何。
光曰： 我身，子之身也。
四月丙子，光伏甲士于窟室，而谒王僚饮。
王僚使兵陈于道，自王宫至光之家，门阶户席，皆王僚之亲也，人夹持铍。
公子光详为足疾，入于窟室，使专诸置匕首于炙鱼之中以进食。
手匕首刺王僚，铍交于匈，遂弑王僚。
公子光竟代立为王，是为吴王阖é庐。
translation: 
In the seventeenth year, Wang Yuji died and his younger brother Yu Mei succeeded to the throne.
The year before last, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling of Chu, and made himself king on his behalf.
In the fourth year, Wang Yumei died and wanted to pass it on to his younger brother Jizha.
Jizha avoided the situation and fled away.
So the people of Wu said: According to the decree of the late king, if a brother dies and a brother succeeds to the throne, the kingdom must be passed on to Ji Zi.
Ji Zi now escaped from the throne, and Wang Yumei became the last of his brothers to become king.
Now that he is dead, his son should be king in his stead.
So he established Yu Mei's son Liao as King of Wu.
In the second year of King Liao's reign, Prince Guang led an army to conquer Chu, but was defeated and lost the ship of King Wu.
Prince Guang was afraid of being punished for this, so he attacked the Chu army secretly and recaptured Wang Zhou before returning to the army.
In the fifth year, Wu Zixu, an exiled minister of Chu State, fled to Wu State. The young master treated him as a guest.
Prince Guang was the son of King Zhufan of Wu.
He has always believed that my father and four brothers should be passed on to the Jizi.
Now Ji Zi is no longer the king, but my father is the first to be the king.
Since the kingdom is not passed on to Ji Zi, I should succeed my father as the king.
So he secretly recruited the Magi, hoping to use them to attack King Liao.
In the eighth year, the King of Wu sent his son Guang to conquer the Chu State, defeated the Chu army, and brought the mother of the former Chu Crown Prince Jian back to the State of Wu from Juchao.
Taking advantage of the Northern Expedition, he defeated Chen and Cai's armies.
The year before last, Prince Guang conquered Chu State again and captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli.
At the beginning, a girl from the Beiliang clan in the border town of Chu State competed with a woman from Wu border town to pick mulberry leaves. The families of the two women were angry and attacked each other. When the officials of the two border towns heard about it, they attacked each other in anger, and the border town of Wu State was destroyed.
The State of Wu was furious upon hearing this, so it attacked the State of Chu, captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli, and returned.
When Wu Zixu fled to Wu, he told King Liao of Wu about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Prince Guang said: Zixu's father and brother were killed by the King of Chu. He advised you to attack Chu to avenge your own personal revenge. Attacking Chu will not be beneficial to Wu.
Wu Zixu then understood that Gongzi Guang had an ulterior motive. Zixu found a warrior named Zhuan Zhu and introduced him to Gongzi Guang.
Prince Guang was very happy and treated Wu Zixu with courtesy.
Zixu retreated to the countryside to earn a living, waiting for Zhuanzhu to take action.
In the winter of the twelfth year, King Ping of Chu passed away.
In the spring of the year before last, the King of Wu wanted to take advantage of the state mourning in Chu to attack Chu. He sent his sons Gaiyu and Zhuyong to lead troops to surround Chu's Liu and Hao towns, and sent Ji Zha as an envoy to Jin to observe the movements of the princes.
Unexpectedly, the Chu State sent a surprise army to cut off its retreat, and the Wu soldiers were prevented from returning home.
At this time, Prince Guang of Wu State said: This opportunity cannot be lost.
Tell Zhuan Zhu: If you don't take action, you won't get anything.
I am the true heir to the throne and should be made king. This is what I want to pursue.
Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not oppose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: The conditions for killing Wang Liao have been met. There are only his mother and young son in the country, but his two younger brothers led troops to attack Chu and were blocked from returning.
Now King Wu is besieged by the State of Chu outside the country, and there are no upright and loyal ministers in the country. No one can stop us.
Gongzi Guang said: My body is your body, sharing weal and woe.
On the day Bingzi of the fourth month, Prince Guang ambushed the soldiers in the basement, and then invited King Liao to a banquet.
King Liao sent troops to line up along the road. From the palace to Prince Guang's house, to the gate, steps, door and seats of Guang's house, they were all covered with King Liao's personal soldiers, each holding a sharp sword.
After King Liao arrived, Prince Guang pretended to have a pain in his feet and hid in the basement. He sent Zhuanzhu to hide the dagger in the belly of the whole roasted fish and pretend to serve it.
When Zhuan Zhu brought the fish to King Liao, he took out a dagger from the fish's belly and stabbed Wang Liao. The guards on the left and right hurriedly stabbed Zhuan Zhu's chest with their swords, but Wang Liao was already killed.
Prince Guang was indeed appointed King of Wu on his behalf, and he became the King of Wu's house.
summary:
Shoumeng had four sons: Zhufan, Yuji, Yumei, and the virtuous Jizha. Shoumeng wanted Jizha to succeed him, but Jizha refused. The throne was then passed from brother to brother with the intention that it would eventually reach Jizha. After Yumei died, Jizha again fled, so the people established Yumei's son Liao as king. Prince Guang, the son of Zhufan, believed he should be king and secretly recruited a warrior named Zhuan Zhu. During a banquet, Zhuan Zhu assassinated King Liao, and Prince Guang became King Helu. Jizha, upon returning, accepted the new king, stating that as long as the ancestral sacrifices continued, the new king was his sovereign.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
阖庐乃以专诸子为卿。
季子至，曰： 苟先君无废祀，民人无废主，社稷有奉，乃吾君也。
吾敢谁怨乎？
哀死事生，以待天命。
非我生乱，立者从之，先人之道也。
复命，哭僚墓，复位而待。吴公子烛庸、盖余二人将兵遇围于楚者，闻公子光弑王僚自立，乃以其兵降楚，楚封之于舒。
王阖庐元年，举伍子胥为行人而与谋国事。
楚诛伯州犁，其孙伯嚭ǐ亡奔吴，吴以为大夫。
三年，吴王阖庐与子胥、伯嚭将兵伐楚，拔舒，杀吴亡将二公子。
光谋欲入郢，将军孙武曰： 民劳，未可，待之。
四年，伐楚，取六与灊。
五年，伐越，败之。
六年，楚使子常囊瓦伐吴。迎而击之，大败楚军于豫章，取楚之居巢而还。
九年，吴王阖庐请伍子胥、孙武曰： 始子之言郢未可入，今果如何？
二子对曰： 楚将子常贪，而唐、蔡皆怨之。
王必欲大伐，必得唐、蔡乃可。
阖庐从之，悉兴师，与唐、蔡西伐楚，至于汉水。
楚亦发兵拒吴，夹水陈。
吴王阖庐弟夫概欲战，阖庐弗许。
夫概曰： 王已属臣兵，兵以利为上，尚何待焉？
遂以其部五千人袭冒楚，楚兵大败，走。
于是吴王遂纵兵追之。
比至郢，五战，楚五败。
楚昭王亡出郢，奔郧。
郧公弟欲弑昭王，昭王与郧公奔随。
而吴兵遂入郢。
子胥、伯嚭鞭平王之尸以报父雠。
十年春，越闻吴王之在郢，国空，乃伐吴。
translation: 
Helu appointed Zhuanzhu's son as minister.
Jizha returned to the state of Wu and said: As long as the sacrifices to the ancestors are not abolished, the people will not be without a king, and the god of the country is enshrined, then he will be my king.
Who can I blame?
I can only mourn the dead and serve the living to deal with the destiny arrangements.
If you do not create trouble yourself, you should obey the newly established king. This is the principle of our ancestors.
So Jizha went to King Liao's tomb, reported how he completed his diplomatic mission, cried bitterly to King Liao, and then returned to his place in the court to wait for the new king's orders. Prince Gaiyu and Zhu Yong of the State of Wu were besieged by the Chu army with their troops. When they heard that Prince Guang had killed King Liao and proclaimed himself king, they led their troops to surrender to the State of Chu. The King of Chu sealed them in Shu.
In the first year of the reign of King Wu of Helu, Wu Zixu was appointed as an official of Xingren and participated in state affairs.
The King of Chu killed Bo Zhouli, and his grandson Bo Pei fled to the State of Wu. The King of Wu appointed him as a doctor.
In the third year, King Helu of Wu, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei led an army to conquer Chu, captured Shuyi, and killed Gaiyu and Zhuyong, the young masters of Wu who had fled.
Helu planned to attack Ying, the capital of Chu State. General Sun Wu said: The army and the people are very tired from fighting. We cannot attack the capital of Ying now. We must wait for the time to mature.
In the fourth year, Wu attacked Chu again and captured Liuyi and Yayi.
In five years, the state of Wu attacked the state of Yue and defeated the Yue army.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu sent his son Chang Nangwa to conquer the state of Wu. Wu Jun sent troops to fight and defeated the Chu army in Yuzhang. He captured Juchao of Chu state and returned to Wu with his troops.
In the ninth year, King Wu Helu asked Wu Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said you could not attack Yingdu, what is the situation now?
The two men replied: The general of Chu State is often greedy, and both Tang and Cai States hate him.
If your Majesty is determined to attack Chu on a large scale, you must unite Tang and Cai to succeed.
Helu obeyed them, dispatched all the troops, and marched westward with Cai State of Tang Dynasty to attack Chu, and came to the edge of Han River.
Chu State also sent troops to resist, and the two sides formed formations across the water.
King Wu's younger brother Fugai wanted to fight, but Helu wouldn't allow it.
Fugai said: Your Majesty has entrusted me with the army. The best way to fight is to seize the favorable opportunity. What are you waiting for!
So he led his five thousand men to attack the Chu army. The Chu army was defeated and fled.
King Wu sent troops to pursue him.
When they arrived at Yingdu, they fought five times in total, and the Chu soldiers were defeated five times.
King Zhao of Chu escaped from Yingdu and ran to Yun County.
Duke Yun's brother wanted to kill King Zhao, but King Zhao fled to Sui with Duke Yun.
Wu soldiers entered the capital of Ying.
Wu Zixu and Bo Pei dug up the body of King Chu Ping from the tomb and whipped it to avenge their father's murder.
In the spring of ten years, the king of Yue heard that the king of Wu was stationed in Yingdu and that the country was empty, so he raised his troops to attack Wu.
summary:
Under King Helu, Wu Zixu and Bo Pei were appointed to official positions. Helu, with the help of Wu Zixu, Sun Wu, and the states of Tang and Cai, launched a major attack on Chu, defeating the Chu army five times and capturing the capital, Ying. Wu Zixu and Bo Pei dug up the body of King Ping of Chu to avenge their fathers. Later, Helu's brother Fugai attempted to usurp the throne but was defeated and fled to Chu. In the nineteenth year, King Helu attacked Yue but was wounded and died. Before his death, he told his son Fuchai to remember that Gou Jian of Yue killed his father.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
今不因此而灭之，又将宽之，不亦难乎！
且句践为人能辛苦，今不灭，后必悔之。
吴王不听，听太宰嚭，卒许越平，与盟而罢兵去。
七年，吴王夫差闻齐景公死而大臣争宠，新君弱，乃兴师北伐齐。
子胥谏曰： 越王句践食不重味，衣不重采，吊死问疾，且欲有所用其众。
此人不死，必为吴患。
今越在腹心疾而王不先，而务齐，不亦谬乎！
吴王不听，遂北伐齐，败齐师于艾陵。
至缯，召鲁哀公而征百牢。
季康子使子贡以周礼说太宰嚭，乃得止。
因留略地于齐鲁之南。
九年，为驺伐鲁，至，与鲁盟乃去。
十年，因伐齐而归。
十一年，复北伐齐。
越王句践率其众以朝吴，厚献遗之，吴王喜。
唯子胥惧，曰： 是弃吴也。
谏曰： 越在腹心，今得志于齐，犹石田，无所用。
且《盘庚之诰》有 颠越勿遗，商之以兴 。
吴王不听，使子胥于齐，子胥属其子于齐鲍氏，还报吴王。
吴王闻之，大怒，赐子胥属镂之剑以死。
将死，曰： 树吾墓上以梓，令可为器。
抉吾眼置之吴东门，以观越之灭吴也。
齐鲍氏弑齐悼公。
吴王闻之，哭于军门外三日，乃从海上攻齐。
齐人败吴，吴王乃引兵归。
十三年，吴召鲁、卫之君会于橐皋。
十四年春，吴王北会诸侯于黄池，欲霸中国以全周室。
六月丙子，越王句践伐吴。
乙酉，越五千人与吴战。
丙戌，虏吴太子友。
丁亥，入吴。
吴人告败于王夫差，夫差恶其闻也。或泄其语，吴王怒，斩七人于幕下。
七月辛丑，吴王与晋定公争长。
吴王曰： 于周室我为长。
translation: 
Instead of taking this opportunity to completely eliminate the Yue forces now, we must forgive them. This is setting up trouble for the future!
Moreover, Gou Jian was a man who was tenacious and endured hardships. If he is not eliminated now, he will regret it in the future.
The King of Wu did not listen to Zixu's plan, but listened to Dazai Pei's words, and finally ceased war with the State of Yue. After the two countries signed a peace treaty, the State of Wu withdrew its troops and returned home.
The year before last, King Fu Chai of Wu heard that ministers were vying for power after the death of Qi Jinggong, and that the new king was young and powerless, so he launched an army to attack Qi State in the north.
Wu Zixu advised him: King Gou Jian of Yue did not eat more than two kinds of dishes, and did not wear more than two colors. He mourned the dead and comforted the sick. This was because he wanted to use the people to take revenge on Wu.
If Gou Jian does not die, he will definitely be a great trouble to the state of Wu.
Now the country of Yue is a serious problem for our country, but you don't pay attention to it and instead use your strength to the country of Qi. Isn't it a big mistake?
The King of Wu refused to listen and went north to attack Qi and defeated the Qi army in Ailing.
When the troops arrived at Zhuanyi, they summoned Duke Ai of Lu and asked for a hundred prisons.
Ji Kangzi sent Zigong to list the Zhou rites to persuade Dazai Pei, and King Wu stopped.
So King Wu stayed to seize the southern territories of Qi and Lu.
In the ninth year, he crusaded against Lu for Zuo and arrived in Lu. He made an alliance with Lu and left.
The year before last, he took advantage of the situation to attack Qi and return.
The year before last, there was another northern expedition to Qi.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his ministers to pay homage to the King of Wu and presented him with generous tributes. The King of Wu was overjoyed.
Only Wu Zixu was afraid and said: The Kingdom of Wu is going to be abandoned.
So he admonished the King of Wu and said: The Yue Kingdom is close to its heart. Although our country can defeat Qi now, it is like a field of stones, which is of no use.
Moreover, "Pangeng's Edict" said that the Shang Dynasty can only prosper if the chaotic and arrogant people are eliminated.
The King of Wu refused to listen and sent Wu Zixu as an envoy to Qi. Zixu entrusted his son to the Bao family of Qi to repay the King of Wu.
When the king of Wu heard about it, he was furious and gave Zixu a sword to commit suicide.
When Zixu was about to die, he said: If you plant catalpa trees on my grave and let them grow enough to make utensils, the Kingdom of Wu will be destroyed.
Plug out my eyes and place them on the east gate of the capital of Wu, so that I can see how the Yue Kingdom destroyed the Wu Kingdom.
Later, the official of Qi State, Bao Shi, killed Qi Daugong.
When King Wu found out, he cried bitterly outside the military gate for three days and then led his army to attack Qi from the sea.
The Qi army defeated the Wu army, and the king of Wu had no choice but to lead the defeated troops back home.
The year before last, King Wu convened the kings of Lu and Wei for an alliance meeting in Lugao.
In the spring of the year before last, King Wu went north to meet with the princes in Huangchi, hoping to dominate the Central Plains and protect the Zhou Dynasty.
In the sixth month of the sixth month, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked Wu.
On Yiyou day, five thousand Yue soldiers fought against Wu soldiers.
Bingxu, captured the prince friend of Wu.
In Dinghai, the Vietnamese army entered the state of Wu.
The Wu people reported the news of their failure to Fu Chai. The King of Wu was afraid that someone would leak the news and let the alliance princes hear the news, so he furiously killed seven people in front of the tent.
In the seventh month of Xinchou, the King of Wu and Duke Ding of Jin competed for the position of leader of the alliance.
King Wu said: My ancestor is the largest among the Zhou clan.
summary:
King Fuchai avenged his father by defeating Yue at Fujiao. King Gou Jian of Yue was forced to hide in Kuaiji Mountain and sought peace through the Grand Prime Minister Bo Pei. Wu Zixu advised against this, comparing Gou Jian to Shaokang, who restored the Xia dynasty from a small territory. He warned that Gou Jian was a threat, but the King of Wu listened to Bo Pei and made peace with Yue. Fuchai then focused on northern campaigns against Qi, ignoring Zixu's warnings about the greater threat from Yue. Zixu was eventually forced to commit suicide, asking for his eyes to be placed on the east gate of Wu's capital to see Yue's invasion. While Fuchai was at the Huangchi meeting vying for supremacy with Jin, Yue attacked Wu, capturing the crown prince. After the meeting, Fuchai sought peace with Yue. Eventually, Yue grew stronger, defeated Wu in battle, and besieged its capital. King Fuchai, regretting not listening to Zixu, committed suicide. The King of Yue destroyed Wu and killed Dazai Bo Pei for his disloyalty.

