Chunk 0: 
original: 
太祖五王
太祖十男。张皇后生长沙宣武王懿、永阳昭王敷、高祖、衡阳宣王畅。李太妃生桂阳简王融。
懿及融，齐永元中为东昏所害；敷、畅，建武中卒：高祖践阼，并追封郡王。
陈太妃生临川靖惠王宏，南平元襄王伟。
吴太妃生安成康王秀，始兴忠武王憺。
费太妃生鄱阳忠烈王恢。
临川靖惠王宏，字宣达，太祖第六子也。
长八尺，美须眉，容止可观。
齐永明十年，为卫军庐陵王法曹行参军，迁太子舍人。
时长沙王懿镇梁州，为魏所围，明年，给宏精兵千人赴援，未至，魏军退。
迁骠骑晋安王主簿，寻为北中郎桂阳王功曹史。
衡阳王畅，有美名，为始安王萧遥光所礼。
及遥光作乱，逼畅入东府，畅惧祸，先赴台。
高祖在雍州，常惧诸弟及祸，谓南平王伟曰： 六弟明于事理，必先还台。
及信至，果如高祖策。
高祖义师下，宏至新林奉迎，拜辅国将军。
建康平，迁西中郎将、中护军，领石头戍军事。
天监元年，封临川郡王，邑二千户。
寻为使持节、散骑常侍、都督扬、南徐州诸军事、后将军、扬州刺史，又给鼓吹一部。
三年，加侍中，进号中军将军。
四年，高祖诏北伐，以宏为都督南北兗、北、徐、青、冀、豫、司、霍八州北讨诸军事。
宏以帝之介弟，所领皆器械精新，军容甚盛，北人以为百数十年所未之有。
军次洛口，宏前军克梁城，斩魏将濆清。
会征役久，有诏班师。
六年夏，迁骠骑将军、开府仪同三司，侍中如故。
其年，迁司徒，领太子太傅。
八年夏，为使持节、都督扬、南徐二州诸军事、司空、扬州刺史，侍中如故。
translation: 
Taizu had ten sons.
Queen Zhang grew up with Xiao Yi, King Xuanwu of Shasha, Xiao Fu, King Zhao of Yongyang, and Xiao Chang, Gao Zu, King Xuan of Hengyang. Concubine Li gave birth to Xiao Rong, King Jian of Guiyang.
Xiao Zhu and Xiao Rong were killed by Marquis Shuhun in the Yongyuan year of Qi; Xiao Fu and Xiao Chang died in the Jianwu year: Gaozu ascended the throne and were posthumously named county kings.
Concubine Chen was born to Xiao Hong, king of Jinghui in Linchuan, and Xiao Wei, king of Yuanxiang in Nanping.
Concubine Wu gave birth to Xiao Xiu, the king of Ancheng Kang, and Xiao Qi, the king of Zhongwu, was born.
Fei Taifei gave birth to Xiao Hui, the loyal king of Poyang.
Xiao Hong, King Jinghui of Linchuan, also known as Xuanda, was the sixth son of Taizu.
He is eight feet tall, has beautiful beard and eyebrows, and his manners are impressive.
In the tenth year of Yongming's reign in Qi Dynasty, he served as the King of Guards in Luling, Fa Cao Xing joined the army and was transferred to Prince Sheren.
At that time, Changsha King Xiao Yi was guarding Liangzhou and was surrounded by the Wei army. The following year, Xiao Hong's elite soldiers, 1,000 men, went to rescue him, but they did not arrive and the Wei army retreated.
He was transferred to the post of chief secretary of Qiusi Jin Anyu, and soon became Beizhong Lang, Guiyang Wang Gongcao Shi.
Xiao Chang, the king of Hengyang, had a good reputation and was respected by Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an.
When Tuo Guang made a rebellion and forced Xiao Chang to enter the Dongfu, Xiao Chang was afraid of the disaster and rushed to the court first.
When Emperor Gaozu was in Yongzhou, he was often worried that his younger brothers would be in trouble. He said to Xiao Wei, King of Nanping: "My sixth brother understands the truth and must return to the court first."
When the messenger arrived, it was as expected by Emperor Gaozu.
After Gaozu's uprising army was defeated, Xiao Hong went to Xinlin to greet him and was appointed as the general of the auxiliary country.
After Jiankang was pacified, he was transferred to General Xizhonglang and Zhonghujun to lead the military garrison in Shitou.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was granted the title of Prince of Linchuan County and had 2,000 households in the city.
Soon he served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Yangnan and Xuzhou, general of the rear, and governor of Dang. He was also given the title of Advocate.
In three years, he was awarded the rank of Shizhong and was promoted to the title of General of the Central Army.
In the fourth year, Emperor Gaozu Shao ordered an expedition to the north and appointed Xiao Hong as the commander-in-chief of the eight northern states of Yan, Bei, Xu, Qing, Ji, Yu, Si, and Huo.
Xiao Hongyin was the emperor's younger brother, and the troops he commanded were all equipped with sophisticated and brand-new equipment. The appearance of the troops was grand, which the northerners thought was unprecedented in more than a hundred years.
The army was stationed at Luokou, and Xiao Hong's vanguard captured Liangcheng and killed the Wei general Chu Qing.
Due to the protracted campaign, Shao ordered his troops to withdraw.
In the summer of the sixth year, he was transferred to the General of Hussars and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong, but the servants remained as usual.
In this year, he was promoted to Situ and concurrently to the Crown Prince and Tutor.
In the summer of the eighth year, he served as the envoy Chijie, the governor of Yang, the military affairs of the two southern Xu states, Sikong, and the governor of Yangzhou, and he remained in the service as usual.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其年冬，以公事左迁骠骑大将军，开府同三司之仪，侍中如故。
未拜，迁使持节、都督扬、徐二州诸军事、扬州刺史，侍中、将军如故。
十二年，迁司空，使持节、侍中、都督、刺史、将军并如故。
十五年春，所生母陈太妃寝疾，宏与母弟南平王伟侍疾，并衣不解带，每二宫参问，辄对使涕泣。
及太妃薨，水浆不入口者五日，高祖每临幸慰勉之。
宏少而孝谨，齐之末年，避难潜伏，与太妃异处，每遣使参问起居。
或谓宏曰： 逃难须密，不宜往来。
宏衔泪答曰： 乃可无我，此事不容暂废。
寻起为中书监，骠骑大将军、使持节、都督如故，固辞弗许。
十七年夏，以公事左迁侍中、中军将军、行司徒。
其年冬，迁侍中、中书监、司徒。
普通元年，迁使持节、都督扬、南徐州诸军事、太尉、扬州刺史，侍中如故。
二年，改创南、北郊，以本官领起部尚书，事竟罢。
七年三月，以疾累表自陈，诏许解扬州，余如故。
四月，薨，时年五十四。
自疾至于薨，舆驾七出临视。
及葬，诏曰： 侍中、太尉临川王宏，器宇冲贵，雅量弘通。
爰初弱龄，行彰素履；逮于应务，嘉猷载缉。
自皇业启基，地惟介弟，久司神甸，历位台阶，论道登朝，物无异议。
朕友于之至，家国兼情，方弘燮赞，仪刑列辟。
天不裛遗，奄焉不永，哀痛抽切，震恸于厥心。
宜增峻礼秩，式昭懋典。
可赠侍中、大将军、扬州牧、假黄钺，王如故。
并给羽葆鼓吹一部，增班剑为六十人。
translation: 
In the winter of the next year, due to official duties, he was demoted to the rank of general of hussars, and the etiquette of the three ministers and servants in the Kaifu remained the same as before.
Without taking office, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of Yang and Xuzhou's military affairs, and the governor of Yangzhou. The ministers and generals remained as usual.
In the twelfth year, he was promoted to Sikong, and the envoys, ministers, governors, governors, and generals remained unchanged.
In the spring of the 15th year, his biological mother, Concubine Chen, was seriously ill. Xiao Hong and his brother Xiao Wei, the king of Nangan, were ill and had no clothes on. Whenever the second palace sent someone to ask questions, they cried to the envoys.
After the death of the concubine, there was no water or rice for five days. Gaozu often went to comfort them.
Xiao Hong was filial and respectful when he was young. In the last years of the Qi Dynasty, he took refuge in hiding and was not with the concubine. He often sent envoys to greet her.
Someone said to Xiao Hong: Escape must be secret and it is not suitable to come and go.
Xiao Hong replied with tears in his eyes: You can live without me, but you can't give up on this matter for a day.
Soon after he returned to the post of Zhongshu Supervisor, the General of the Hussars, Envoy Chijie, and Governor remained unchanged. He resolutely refused and was not allowed.
In the summer of the 17th year, he was demoted to the rank of Shizhong, General of the Chinese Army, and Acting Situ due to official duties.
In the winter of the year of creation, he was promoted to Shizhong, Zhongshu Supervisor, and Situ.
In the first year of the ordinary year, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor Yang, military commander of South Xuzhou, Taiwei, and governor of Yangzhou, and his servants remained as usual.
In the second year, the altars in the southern and northern suburbs were rebuilt. Xiao Hong used his official position to concurrently serve as minister, and dismissed him after the incident.
In March of the seventh year, due to illness, he made a report and Shaoling agreed to remove him from the position of Yangzhou governor, while the other positions remained the same.
In April, he passed away at the age of fifty-four.
From Bai's illness until his death, the emperor came out of the palace to visit him seven times.
After the burial, the emperor issued an edict saying: Xiao Hong, Prince of Linchuan, Prince of Shizhong and Taiwei, has a calm and elegant temperament, and a broad and enlightened mind.
Starting from childhood, his moral character is outstanding and his behavior is simple; when it comes to dealing with affairs, good strategies are constantly recorded.
Since the foundation of the empire was laid, Xiao Hong was his younger brother. He had been in charge of the suburbs of Beijing for a long time. He had served as a public assistant and came to the court by commenting on morality. People had no different opinions.
My brother has a close relationship with both family and country. We are about to further coordinate management and set an example for all officials.
God did not want to leave this old minister behind, and he passed away suddenly. I sobbed with sorrow, and my heart was shocked and mourned.
The etiquette level should be increased and the ceremony should be clear and solemn.
It can be given posthumously to Shizhong, General, Yangzhou Mu, and Fake Huangpu, and the king's title will remain the same.
He also gave Yu Bao a propaganda department and increased the number of sword guards to 60.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
给温明秘器，敛以衮服。谥曰靖惠。
宏性宽和笃厚，在州二十余年，未尝以吏事按郡县，时称其长者。
宏有七子：正仁，正义，正德、正则，正立，正表，正信。
世子正仁，为吴兴太守，有治能。
天监十年，卒，谥曰哀世子。
无子，高祖诏以罗平侯正立为世子，由宏意也。
宏薨，正立表让正义为嗣，高祖嘉而许之，改封正立为建安侯，邑千户。
卒，子贲嗣。
正义先封平乐侯，正德西豊侯，正则乐山侯，正立罗平侯，正表封山侯，正信武化侯，正德别有传。
安成康王秀，字彦达，太祖第七子也。
年十二，所生母吴太妃亡，秀母弟始兴王憺时年九岁，并以孝闻，居丧，累日不进浆饮，太祖亲取粥授之。
哀其早孤，命侧室陈氏并母二子。
陈亦无子，有母德，视二子如亲生焉。
秀既长，美风仪，性方静，虽左右近侍，非正衣冠不见也，由是亲友及家人咸敬焉。
齐世，弱冠为著作佐郎，累迁后军法曹行参军，太子舍人。
永元中，长沙宣武王懿入平崔慧景，为尚书令，居端右；弟衡阳王畅为卫尉，掌管籥。
东昏日夕逸游，出入无度。众颇劝懿因其出，闭门举兵废之，懿不听。
帝左右既恶懿勋高，又虑废立，并间懿，懿亦危之，自是诸王侯咸为之备。
及难作，临川王宏以下诸弟侄各得奔避。
方其逃也，皆不出京师，而罕有发觉，惟桂阳王融及祸。
高祖义师至新林，秀与诸王侯并自拔赴军，高祖以秀为辅国将军。
是时东昏弟晋熙王宝嵩为冠军将军、南徐州刺史，镇京口，长史范岫行府州事，遣使降，且请兵于高祖。以秀为冠军长史、南东海太守，镇京口。
建康平，仍为使持节、都督南徐、兗二州诸军事、南徐州刺史，辅国将军如故。
天监元年，进号征虏将军，封安成郡王，邑二千户。
京口自崔慧景作乱，累被兵革，民户流散，秀招怀抚纳，惠爱大行。
translation: 
He was given a coffin and buried in a ceremonial dress. Mi's nickname is Jinghui.
Xiao Hong has a tolerant, submissive and honest character. He has been in the state for more than 20 years and has never oppressed counties due to political affairs. People at that time called him an elder.
Xiao Hong has seven sons: Zhengren, Zhengyi, Zhengde, Zhengze, Zhengli, Zhengbiao and Zhengxin.
The prince Zhengren was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing and had the ability to govern.
After ten years in Tianjian, Mi passed away and was given the title of Ai Shizi.
Since he had no son, Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to appoint Marquis Luoping Zhengli as his heir apparent, which was out of Xiao Hong's wishes.
When Xiao Hong passed away, Zhengli made a petition to appoint Zhengyi as his heir. Emperor Gaozu praised him and granted his request. Zhengli was granted the title of Marquis of Jian'an and was granted the title of a thousand households.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Xiao Bi.
Zhengyi was originally granted the title of Pinglehou, Zhengde was granted the title of Xifenghou, Zhengze was granted the title of Leshanhou, Zhengli was granted the title of Luopinghou, Zhengbiao was granted the title of Shanhou, and Zhengxin was granted the title of Wuhuahou. Zhengde also has a biography.
An Chengkang King Xiao Xiu, named Yanda, was the seventh son of Taizu.
When he was twelve years old, his biological mother, Concubine Wu, died. Xiao Xiu's half-brother, Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, was nine years old at the time. They were both known for their filial piety. When they were in mourning, they did not eat or drink for many days. Taizu personally took the porridge and gave it to them.
He pitied them for losing their mother early, and ordered Mrs. Chen, the side wife, to raise their two children.
Mrs. Chen also has no sons. She has the virtue of a mother and regards her two children as her own sons.
When Xiao Xiu grew up, he had a graceful demeanor, an upright and quiet temperament. Even the attendants on his left and right would not see each other if they were not dressed properly, so his relatives, friends and people at home respected him.
In the Qi Dynasty, when he became an adult, he served as Zuo Lang. After being promoted many times, he was promoted to military law officer Cao Xing and joined the army. The prince passed away.
During the Yongyuan period, Xiao Yi, king of Xuanwu in Changsha, went to Beijing to pacify Cui Huijing and served as Shangshu Ling, at the head of the Shangshu Province; his younger brother Xiao Chang, King of Hengyang, served as Weiwei and was in charge of the palace.
Marquis Shuhun went out to play at night, and there were no rules regarding his comings and goings. Many people advised Xiao Yi to take advantage of him to go out, close the palace door and raise troops to depose him, but Xiao Yi did not listen.
The people around the emperor hated Xiao Yi for his high achievements and were worried about his plans to abolish the throne. They all framed Xiao Yi. Xiao Yi also felt that he was in danger. From then on, all the princes were on guard against him.
When disaster struck, his brothers and nephews, including Xiao Hong, the king of Linchuan, were able to escape.
When they escaped, they did not leave the capital, and few of them were discovered. Only Xiao Rong, the king of Guiyang, suffered disaster.
When Gaozu's uprising army arrived in Xinlin, Xiao Xiu and the princes all fled to join the army. Gaozu appointed Xiao Xiu as the general of the auxiliary country.
At this time, Donghun's younger brother Jinxi Wang Baosong served as the champion general and the governor of South Xuzhou, guarding Jingkou. Fan Xiu, the chief minister, acted as agent for the affairs of the prefecture and sent envoys to surrender. He also asked Gaozu to send troops and appointed Xiao Xiu as the champion chief governor and the governor of Nandonghai to guard Jingkou.
After Jiankang was pacified, he served as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of Nanxu, Yanzhou and other military affairs, and governor of Nanxuzhou. His title of auxiliary general remained as before.
In the first year of Mengjian's reign, he was promoted to the title of General of the Conqueror Army, granted the title of Prince of Ancheng County, and was granted a settlement of 2,000 households.
Since Cui Huijing's rebellion in Jingkou, wars have been going on one after another, and the people have been dispersed. Lu Xiu recruited people to appease him and extended his favor.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
仍值年饥，以私财赡百姓，所济活甚多。
二年，以本号征领石头戍事，加散骑常侍。
三年，进号右将军。
五年，加领军、中书令，给鼓吹一部。
六年，出为使持节、都督江州诸军事、平南将军、江州刺史。
将发，主者求坚船以为斋舫。
秀曰： 吾岂爱财而不爱士。
乃教所由，以牢者给参佐，下者载斋物。
既而遭风，斋舫遂破。
及至州，闻前刺史取征士陶潜曾孙为里司。
秀叹曰： 陶潜之德，岂可不及后世！
即日辟为西曹。
时盛夏水泛长，津梁断绝，外司请依旧僦度，收其价直。
秀教曰： 刺史不德，水潦为患，可利之乎！
给船而已。
七年，遭慈母陈太妃忧，诏起视事。
寻迁都督荆、湘、雍、益、宁、南、北梁、南、北秦州九州诸军事、平西将军、荆州刺史。
其年，迁号安西将军。
立学校，招隐逸。
下教曰： 夫鹑火之禽，不匿影于丹山；昭华之宝，乍耀采于蓝田。
是以江汉有濯缨之歌，空谷著来思之咏，弘风阐道，靡不由兹。
处士河东韩怀明、南平韩望、南郡庾承先、河东郭麻，并脱落风尘，高蹈其事。
两韩之孝友纯深，庾、郭之形骸枯槁，或橡饭菁羹，惟日不足，或葭墙艾席，乐在其中。
昔伯武贞坚，就仕河内，史云孤劭，屈志陈留。
岂曰场苗，实惟攻玉。
可加引辟，并遣喻意。
既同魏侯致礼之请，庶无辟畺三缄之叹。
是岁，魏悬瓠城民反，杀豫州刺史司马悦，引司州刺史马仙琕，仙琕签荆州求应赴。
众咸谓宜待台报，秀曰： 彼待我而为援，援之宜速，待敕虽旧，非应急也。
即遣兵赴之。
translation: 
When there was a famine, private property was used to help the people, and many people were saved.
In the second year, he was recruited to take charge of the stone garrison affairs based on his position, and was awarded the rank of regular attendant on casual cavalry.
In three years, he was promoted to the rank of General Right.
In the fifth year, he was awarded the title of Army Leader, Zhongshu Ling, and the Department of Propaganda.
For six years, he went out to serve as envoy Chijie, military governor of Jiangzhou, general Pingnan, and governor of Jiangzhou.
About to set off, the administrator asked for a sturdy ship to carry the Zhaiku's belongings.
Xiao Xiu said: How can I cherish property but not soldiers?
So he ordered that strong ships be equipped for the staff and inferior ships to carry the property of Zhaiku.
Soon there was a strong wind and the boat carrying the belongings broke.
When I arrived in the prefecture, I heard that the previous governor had hired the great-grandson of the conscript Tao Qian as Lisi.
Kou Zhou sighed and said: How can the depraved virtues not be extended to future generations?
On that day, he was appointed as a vassal of Xicao.
At that time, the water surged in midsummer and the ferry bridge was cut off. The competent authorities requested that they still pay taxes and collect coins.
Gai Xiu ordered: "The governor has no virtue and is in danger of flooding. How can he make profit from this?"
Just give it to the ship.
In the seventh year, when his adoptive mother Suzuo maggot passed away, he was ordered to return to his post.
Soon he was transferred to the commander-in-chief of Jing, Xiang, Yong, Yi, Ning, Nan, Beiliang, southern and northern Qinzhou Jiuzhou military affairs, Pingxi general, and Jingzhou governor.
This year, he was promoted to General Anxi.
Build schools and recruit hermits.
The order said: Rare birds like quails and sparks will no longer hide in Danshan; beautiful solid jade will sometimes shine in Lantian.
Therefore, the desert water of the Yangtze River has songs that wash away the crowns, the empty valleys leave chants of nostalgia, and the style and morality are promoted, all because of Ou.
The hermits Han Huaiming from Hedong, Han Wang from Nanping, Yu Chengxian from Nanjun, and Guo Ma from Hedong were all detached from the world and carried out their affairs with high righteousness.
The filial piety and friendship between the two Koreas were pure and profound. Yu and Guo were skinny. Some used acorns as food and cyanine as soup. One meal a day was not enough. Some used reeds as walls and mugwort as mats. They had fun in it.
In the past, Bo Wu was loyal and strong and served as an official in Hanoi. Shi Yun was aloof and self-reliant, but in Chenliu he had a wronged mind.
It's not just about planting seedlings, it's really about attacking jade.
You can recruit and appoint people, and send people to explain your intentions.
Since the request for salute is the same as that of the Marquis of Wei, I hope that Pi Qiang will not sigh three times.
In this year, the people of Xuanhu City in Wei State rebelled and killed Sima Yue, the governor of Yuzhou, and attracted Ma Xianbei, the governor of Sizhou in Liang State. Xianbei sent a document to Jingzhou asking for help.
Everyone thought they should wait for the court's reply. Lu Zhou said: "They are waiting for our rescue. The rescue should be quick. Although waiting for orders is the old practice, it cannot be emergency."
Soldiers were immediately dispatched.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
先是，巴陵马营蛮为缘江寇害，后军司马高江产以郢州军伐之，不克，江产死之，蛮遂盛。
秀遣防阁文炽率众讨之，燔其林木，绝其蹊迳，蛮失其嶮，期岁而江路清，于是州境盗贼遂绝。
及沮水暴长，颇败民田，秀以谷二万斛赡之。
使长史萧琛简府州贫老单丁吏，一日散遣五百余人，百姓甚悦。
十一年，征为侍中、中卫将军，领宗正卿、石头戍事。
十三年，复出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督郢、司、霍三州诸军事、安西将军、郢州刺史。
郢州当涂为剧地，百姓贫，至以妇人供役，其弊如此。
秀至镇，务安之。
主者或求召吏。
秀曰： 不识救弊之术；此州凋残，不可扰也。
于是务存约己，省去游费，百姓安堵，境内晏然。
先是夏口常为兵冲，露骸积骨于黄鹤楼下，秀祭而埋之。
一夜，梦数百人拜谢而去。
每冬月，常作襦裤以赐冻者。
时司州叛蛮田鲁生，弟鲁贤、超秀，据蒙笼来降。高祖以鲁生为北司州刺史，鲁贤北豫州刺史，超秀定州刺史，为北境捍蔽。
而鲁生、超秀互相谗毁，有去就心，秀抚喻怀纳，各得其用，当时赖之。
十六年，迁使持节、都督雍、梁、南、北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事、镇北将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史，便道之镇。
十七年春，行至竟陵之石梵，薨，时年四十四。
高祖闻之，甚痛悼焉。
遣皇子南康王绩缘道迎候。
初，秀之西也，郢州民相送出境，闻其疾，百姓商贾咸为请命。
既薨，四州民裂裳为白帽，哀哭以迎送之。
雍州蛮迎秀，闻薨，祭哭而去。
丧至京师，高祖使使册赠侍中、司空，谥曰康。
秀有容观，每朝，百僚属目。
translation: 
Before the Han Dynasty, the Baling Maying barbarians were a scourge along the Changliao area. The rear army Sima Zhi Hongchen led a strong army to attack them, but they could not be conquered. Jiang Chan died in the battle, and the barbarians became strong.
Lu Zhong sent Fanghe Saiji to lead an army to attack them, burning the woods and cutting off the trails. The barbarians lost their danger. A year later, the roads along the Yangtze River were calm, and thieves were eliminated in the state.
When the Ju water surged and destroyed many people's fields, Xiao Xiu used 20,000 hu of grain to help them.
The dispatch chief Shi Xiaochen selected the poor, elderly and only sons in the prefecture to serve as petty officials and servants, and released more than 500 people in one day. The people were very happy.
In the eleventh year, he was recruited as Shizhong and Zhongwei General, leading Zongzhengqing and Shitou to handle affairs.
In the thirteenth year, he returned to serve as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, governor of the military affairs of Jian, Si and Huo three states, general of Anxi, and governor of Yingzhou.
The area near the roadside in Yingzhou was difficult to manage, and the people were so poor that women were used as servants. This was such a disadvantage.
Lu Zhou arrived at the town and focused on calming them down.
Some people in charge requested to summon officials.
Xiao Xiu said: I don't know how to save the evil; this state is dilapidated and broken, and cannot be harassed.
So we strive to save our own expenses and travel expenses, so that the people are safe and the territory is safe.
Before that, Xiakou was often an important military location. Under the Yellow Crane Tower there were exposed skeletons, which were buried after Xiao Xiu offered sacrifices.
One night, I dreamed that hundreds of people were bowing and thanking me before leaving.
Every winter, short jackets and trousers are often sewn and given to people suffering from the cold.
At that time, there were many rebel barbarians in Sizhou, and their younger brothers Lu Xian and Chaoxiu occupied Menglong and came to surrender. Chanzu appointed Lu Sheng as the governor of Bei Sizhou, Lu Xian as the governor of Yuzhou, and Chaoxiu as the governor of Dingzhou to serve as a barrier to the northern border.
However, Lu Sheng and Chaoxiu slandered each other and had rebellious intentions. Gai Wai comforted and enlightened Huairou so that they could make the most of each other. The situation at that time relied on Xiao Xiu.
In the 16th year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of Yong, Liang, Nanqin, and Jiutai prefectures, Shucongzhi Tongluo, Liangye Zhidisu and other military officers, Zhenbei general, Ningman school captain, and Yongzhou governor, from the small road to the town.
In the spring of the seventeenth year, Shi Fan, who was traveling to Jingling, died at the age of forty-four.
When Zhidan heard about it, he was very sad and sad.
Xiao Ji, the prince of Nankang, was sent along the road to greet him.
When Xiao Xiu marched westward, the people of Yingzhou sent each other to send him out. When they heard that he was ill, the people and merchants prayed for his life.
After his death, people from the four states tore their clothes into white hats and came to greet him with sorrow and weeping.
The Yiye barbarians welcomed Lu Zhou. When they heard that he had passed away, they worshiped and wept before leaving.
When the coffin arrived in the capital, Emperor Gaozu sent an envoy to present it to Shizhong and Sikong, and Mi was named King Kang.
Xiao Xiu has a graceful manner, and every time she meets in court, all the officials pay attention.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
性仁恕，喜愠不形于色。
左右尝以石掷杀所养鹄，斋帅请治其罪。
秀曰： 吾岂以鸟伤人。
在京师，旦临公事，厨人进食，误而覆之，去而登车，竟朝不饭，亦不之诮也。
精意术学，搜集经记，招学士平原刘孝标，使撰《类苑》，书未及毕，而已行于世。
秀于高祖布衣昆弟，及为君臣，小心畏敬，过于疏贱者，高祖益以此贤之。
少偏孤，于始兴王嶦尤笃。
梁兴，嶦久为荆州刺史，自天监初，常以所得俸中分与秀，秀称心受之，亦弗辞多也。
昆弟之睦，时议归之。
故吏夏侯禀等表立墓碑，诏许焉。
当世高才游王门者，东海王僧孺、吴郡陆倕、彭城刘孝绰、河东裴子野，各制其文，古未之有也。
世子机嗣。
机字智通，天监二年，除安成国世子。
六年，为宁远将军、会稽太守。
还为给事中。
普通元年，袭封安成郡王，其年为太子洗马，迁中书侍郎。
二年，迁明威将军、丹阳尹。
三年，迁持节、督湘、衡、桂三州诸军事、宁远将军、湘州刺史。
大通二年，薨于州，时年三十。
机美姿容，善吐纳。
家既多书，博学强记；然而好弄，尚力，远士子，近小人。
为州专意聚敛，无治绩，频被案劾。
及将葬，有司请谥，高祖诏曰： 王好内怠政，可谥曰炀。
所著诗赋数千言，世祖集而序之。
子操嗣。
南浦侯推，字智进，机次弟也。
少清敏，好属文，深为太宗所赏。
普通六年，以王子例封。
translation: 
He has a kind and forgiving personality, and his emotions and anger are not shown on his face.
The people around him had stoned the swans he had raised and killed them. Commander Zhai asked to be punished for the crime of stone-throwing the deceased.
Xiao Xiu said: How can I hurt people because of birds?
In the capital, I had to go to work in the morning. The chef brought food, but he accidentally knocked it over. After leaving, he boarded the car and went to the court. He didn't eat all morning, and he didn't blame the chef.
He paid careful attention to academic studies, collected scriptures and miscellaneous notes, and attracted scholar Wang Yuanren Liu Xiaobiao to write Leiyuan. The book was not completed in time, but it had already been circulated in the world.
Xiao Xiu treated Gaozu like a brother among the common people. When he became a monarch, he was cautious and respectful, and was too distant and humble. Chu Dan even considered him wise because of this.
He lost his mother when he was young and was particularly sincere towards Wang Gaicang, Yuan Xing.
During the rise of the Chu Dynasty, Yi Zhan served as the governor of Qi for a long time. In the early years of Yujian, he often divided his salary and salary equally to Lu Xiu. Lu Xiu accepted it with satisfaction and did not refuse to say anything.
The harmonious feeling between brothers was highly praised by public opinion at that time.
Xia Houzhi, an old official, and others petitioned to erect a tombstone, and Shao Ling agreed.
When modern scholars go to the royal palace to socialize, do they encounter human beings or Yudeng people fall into the castle? Liu Baoyao, a native of Zhang, and Wang Shu, a native of Jiongsai, each wrote inscriptions, which were unprecedented in ancient times.
The crown prince gave birth to his heir.
Xiao Ji, courtesy name Zhitong, was appointed the crown prince of Ancheng Kingdom in the second year of Tianjian.
For six years, he served as general Ningyuan and prefect of Kuaiji.
He returned to Beijing and was appointed as Shizhong.
In the first year of the ordinary year, he inherited the title of Prince Ancheng of the county. In this year, he served as the prince Xima and was transferred to the position of Minister of Zhongshu.
In the second year, he was transferred to General Mingwei and Danyang Yin.
In the third year, he was promoted to Chi Jie, supervised the military affairs of the three states of Hunan, Henggui, and Guizhou, and was the general of Ningyuan and the governor of Xiangzhou.
In the second year of Datong, he died in the state at the age of thirty.
Xiao Ji is handsome and good at talking.
There are many books at home, and he has extensive learning and memory. However, he likes to show off, advocates martial arts, alienates scholar-bureaucrats, and is close to villains.
When he was appointed governor, he focused on amassing wealth and had no political achievements. He was interrogated and impeached one after another.
When it was about to be buried, the relevant officials asked for instructions on Mi's title. Emperor Gaozu Xia Shao said: "The king likes having sex but neglects political affairs, so Mi can be given the title of King Yang."
Xiao Ji wrote several thousand words of poems and poems, and Shizu collected them and wrote a preface for him.
He was succeeded by his son Xiao Cao.
Nanpu Marquis Xiao Tui, also named Zhijin, was Xiao Ji's second younger brother.
When he was young, he was high-spirited and clever, and liked to write articles. He was deeply appreciated by Taizong.
Ordinary six years, because he is the son of the prince, he is granted the title according to regulations.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
历宁远将军、淮南太守。
迁轻车将军、晋陵太守，给事中，太子洗马，秘书丞。
出为戎昭将军、吴郡太守。
所临必赤地大旱，吴人号 旱母 焉。
侯景之乱，守东府城，贼设楼车，尽锐攻之，推随方抗拒，频击挫之。
至夕，东北楼主许郁华启关延贼，城遂陷，推握节死之。
南平元襄王伟，字文达，太祖第八子也。
幼清警好学。
齐世，起家晋安镇北法曹行参军府，迁骠骑，转外兵。
高祖为雍州，虑天下将乱，求迎伟及始兴王忄詹来襄阳。
俄闻已入沔，高祖欣然谓佐吏曰： 吾无忧矣。
义师起，南康王承制，板为冠军将军，留行雍州开府事。
义师发后，州内储备及人皆虚竭。
魏兴太守裴师仁、齐兴太守颜僧都并据郡不受命，举兵将袭雍州，伟与始兴王嶦遣兵于始平郡待师仁等，要击大破之，州境以安。
高祖既克郢、鲁，下寻阳，围建业，而巴东太守萧慧训子璝及巴西太守鲁休烈起兵逼荆州，屯军上明，连破荆州。
镇军萧颖胄遣将刘孝庆等距之，反为璝所败，颖胄忧愤暴疾卒，西朝凶惧。
尚书仆射夏侯详议征兵雍州，伟乃割州府将吏，配始兴王嶦往赴之。
嶦既至，璝等皆降。
和帝诏以伟为使持节、都督雍、梁、南、北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史，将军如故。
寻加侍中，进号镇北将军。
天监元年，加散骑常侍，进督荆、宁二州，余如故。
封建安郡王，食邑二千户，给鼓吹一部。
四年，徙都督南徐州诸军事、南徐州刺史，使持节、常侍、将军如故。
五年，至都，改为抚军将军、丹阳尹，常侍如故。
六年，迁使持节、都督扬、南徐二州诸军事、右军将军、扬州刺史。
未拜，进号中权将军。
translation: 
He successively served as General Ningyuan and Governor of Huainan.
He was transferred to General Qingche and Prefect of Jinling, and was appointed to Shizhong, Prince Xi Ma and Secretary Cheng.
He went out to serve as General Rongzhao and Grand Administrator of Wu County.
Wherever he went, there would be no grain and severe drought. The people of Wujun called him "Drought Mother".
During the Hou Jing Rebellion, Lu Tui was guarding Dongfu City. The rebels set up siege vehicles and used all their elites to attack. Xiao Tui resisted according to the situation and defeated the rebels one after another.
At night, Xu Yuhua, the owner of the northeastern building, switched the day and let in the bandits. The city fell, and Xiao Tui died in battle holding the talisman in his hand.
Xiao Wei, the king of Yuanxiang in Nanping, whose courtesy name was Wenda, was the eighth son of Taizu.
Bai Youqing and Ji Min like to study.
In the Qi Dynasty, Cao Xing served as an official in Jin'an Town and joined the army. The military government was renamed Hussar, and Xiao Wei was appointed as a foreign soldier to join the army.
Emperor Gaozu served as the governor of Yongzhou. He was worried about the unrest in the world and asked to welcome Xiao Wei and Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, to Xiangyang.
Soon after hearing that they had entered Mianshui, Emperor Gaozu happily said to his officials: "I don't have any worries anymore."
The uprising army was launched, and King Nankang followed his orders and appointed Lu Wei as the champion general, who stayed behind to act as the agent for the affairs of the Yuye Prefecture.
After the uprising army set off, the state's reserves and soldiers were depleted.
Pei Shiren, the prefect of Wei Xing, and Yan Seng, the prefect of Qixing, both occupied the county and refused to accept the order. They sent troops to attack Yongzhou. Xiao Wei and King Lutang of Shixing sent soldiers to wait for the first group of people in Yuanmangxing. They intercepted and defeated them, and the state was stabilized.
Emperor Gaozu conquered Shuye, stacked mountains and crossed the mountains, went down to Manwu, and surrounded Jianye. However, Xiao Zhuan, the son of Xiao Huixun, the governor of Badong, and Lu Xiulie, the governor of Brazil, raised troops to approach Jingzhou and garrisoned in Shangming, defeating the Jingzhou army one after another.
The general of the town army, Xiao Yingzhi, sent general Liu Xiaoqing and others to resist them, but was defeated by Xiao Suo. Yingzhou died of a sudden illness due to worry and anger, and the people in the Western Dynasty were in turmoil and fear.
Shangshu Pushe Xia Houxiang suggested recruiting troops to Yongzhou, so he separated the generals and officials from the state and assigned them to King Shixing to go to the rescue.
After Wang Wei arrived, Xiao Huang and others surrendered.
Emperor He went down to Shao and appointed Gai Wei as envoy Chijie, governor of the four prefectures of Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, Jingling Prefecture of Ying Prefecture, military commanders of Suijun in Si Prefecture, Ningman Colonel, and Yong Prefecture Governor. The general remained as usual.
Soon he was awarded the title of Shizhong and was promoted to the title of General Zhenbei.
In the first year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the rank of regular servant of casual cavalry and the governor of Jing and Ning prefectures. The other positions remained the same.
The feudal king of Anjun, with 2,000 households living in the city, was given a department of propaganda.
In the fourth year, he was changed to the governor of the military affairs of South Xuzhou and the governor of South Xuzhou. The envoys, ministers and generals remained as before.
In the fifth year, when he arrived in the capital, he was appointed General of Fujun and Qie Liyin, but his regular attendants remained as before.
In the sixth year, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor-general, Yitu military commander of the two states, general of the right army, and governor of Yangzhou.
Before he took office, he was promoted to the rank of General of Zhongquan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
七年，以疾表解州，改侍中、中抚军，知司徒事。
九年，迁护军、石头戍军事，侍中、将军、鼓吹如故。
其年，出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督江州诸军事、镇南将军、江州刺史，鼓吹如故。
十一年，以本号加开府仪同三司。
其年，复以疾陈解。
十二年，征为抚军将军，仪同、常侍如故，以疾不拜。
十三年，改为左光禄大夫。
加亲信四十人，岁给米万斛，布绢五千匹，药直二百四十万，厨供月二十万，并二卫两营杂役二百人，倍先。置防阁白直左右职局一百人。
伟末年疾浸剧，不复出籓，故俸秩加焉。
十五年，所生母陈太妃寝疾，伟及临川王宏侍疾，并衣不解带。
及太妃薨，毁顿过礼，水浆不入口累日，高祖每临幸譬抑之。
伟虽奉诏，而毁瘠殆不胜丧。
十七年，高祖以建安土瘠，改封南平郡王，邑户如故。
迁侍中、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
普通四年，增邑一千户。
五年，进号镇卫大将军。
中大通元年，以本官领太子太傅。
四年，迁中书令、大司马。
五年，薨，时年五十八。
诏敛以衮冕，给东园秘器。
又诏曰： 旌德纪功，前王令典；慎终追远，列代通规。
故侍中、中书令、大司马南平王伟，器宇宏旷，鉴识弘简。
爰在弱龄，清风载穆，翼佐草昧，勋高樊、沔，契阔艰难，劬劳任寄。
及赞务论道，弘兹衮职。
奄焉薨逝，朕用震恸于厥心。宜隆宠命，式昭茂典。
可赠侍中、太宰，王如故。
translation: 
Seven years. Due to illness, he was dismissed from his post in the state and was appointed as a minister in charge of the army and a minister in charge of the military affairs.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to the guard army and Shitou garrison. The minister, general and advocate remained as before.
In the first year of Han Dynasty, he went out to serve as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, governor of Jiangzhu military affairs, general of Zhennan, and governor of Jiangzhou. The propaganda was as usual.
In the eleventh year, he was awarded the third division of Kaifu Yitong with his own position.
This year, Chen asked to be relieved of his position due to illness.
In the twelfth year, he was recruited as the general of the Fu army, with the same etiquette and regular attendants as before, but he could not take up the post due to illness.
In the thirteenth year, he was changed to Dr. Zuo Guanglu.
Forty more confidants were awarded, and each year they were provided with 10,000 hu of rice, 5,000 pieces of cloth, 2.4 million yuan for medical expenses, and 200,000 yuan for living expenses per month. Two hundred people were assigned to serve in two battalions of guards and two battalions to serve as various servants, doubling the previous number, and one hundred people were set up in Fanghe and Baizhi posts.
Xiao Wei's illness worsened in his later years and he no longer went out to guard, so his salary level increased.
In the fifteenth year, his biological mother, Concubine Chen, became seriously ill. Xiao Wei and Linchuan King Xiao Hong were unable to take off their clothes due to the illness.
When the concubine passed away, she became too sad and emaciated, and she was deprived of water and rice for many days. Emperor Gaozu often went to enlighten and comfort her.
Although Xiao Wei followed the edict, he was so thin that he could hardly bear the funeral.
In the 17th year, because the land in Jian'an was poor, Emperor Gaozu changed the title of Xiao Wei to Nanping County Prince, and the number of households in the city remained the same.
He was transferred to the third division of Shizhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong.
Generally, in four years, one thousand households will be added to the fiefdom.
In the fifth year, he was promoted to the rank of General of Guards.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he used his official position as the prince and tutor.
In four years, he was promoted to Shu Ling and Da Sima.
Five years later, he passed away at the age of fifty-eight.
Shao ordered him to be encased in a ceremonial dress and crown, and given to the coffin.
Xia Shao also said: Commending virtues and recording merits is a beautiful code of the previous emperors; handling funerals with caution and offering sacrifices to distant ancestors is a common rule throughout the ages.
The late Shizhong, Zhongshu Ling, and Grand Sima Nanping Wang Xiaowei were magnanimous and broad-minded, with broad and concise knowledge.
Since his childhood, he has been clear and harmonious. He has tried his best to assist in the establishment of the foundation and made great achievements in Fancheng and Mianshui. He has entrusted him with the responsibility of hard work in remote and difficult areas.
When he assisted the government in commenting on governance, he fulfilled his duties as an official.
He passed away suddenly, which shocked and saddened my heart. The appointment should be given with great solemnity and a great ceremony should be made.
It can be given as a posthumous gift to the servants and the chief minister, but the king's title will remain the same.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
给羽葆鼓吹一部，并班剑四十人。
谥曰元襄。
伟少好学，笃诚通恕，趋贤重士，常如不及。
由是四方游士，当世知名者，莫不毕至。
齐世，青溪宫改为芳林苑，天监初，赐伟为第，伟又加穿筑，增植嘉树珍果，穷极雕丽，每与宾客游其中，命从事中郎萧子范为之记。
梁世籓邸之盛，无以过焉。
而性多恩惠，尤愍穷乏。
常遣腹心左右，历访闾里人士，其有贫困吉凶不举者，即遣赡恤之。
太原王曼颖卒，家贫无以殡敛，友人江革往哭之，其妻儿对革号诉。
革曰： 建安王当知，必为营理。
言未讫而伟使至，给其丧事，得周济焉。
每祁寒积雪，则遣人载樵米，随乏绝者即赋给之。
晚年崇信佛理，尤精玄学，著《二旨义》，别为新通。
又制《性情》、《几神》等论其义，僧宠及周舍、殷钧、陆倕并名精解，而不能屈。
伟四子：恪，恭，虔，祗。
世子恪嗣。
恭字敬范。
天监八年，封衡山县侯，以元襄功，加邑至千户。
初，乐山侯正则有罪，敕让诸王，独谓元襄曰： 汝儿非直无过，并有义方。
恭起家给事中，迁太子洗马。
出为督齐安等十一郡事、宁远将军、西阳、武昌二郡太守。
征为秘书丞，迁中书郎，监丹阳尹，行徐、南徐州事，转衡州刺史，母忧去职。
寻起为云麾将军、湘州刺史。
恭善解吏事，所在见称。而性尚华侈，广营第宅，重斋步櫩，模写宫殿。
尤好宾友，酣宴终辰，座客满筵，言谈不倦。
时世祖居籓，颇事声誉，勤心著述，卮酒未尝妄进。
恭每从容谓人曰： 下官历观世人，多有不好欢乐，乃仰眠床上，看屋梁而著书，千秋万岁，谁传此者。
劳神苦思，竟不成名，岂如临清风，对朗月，登山泛水，肆意酣歌也。
translation: 
Yu Bao was given a piece of propaganda and forty men with swords and ceremonial guards.
Mi's nickname is Yuan Xiang.
When Xiao Wei was young, he was fond of learning, honest, sincere, understanding and tolerant. He was close to talented people and valued scholars, but he often seemed to have not done enough.
Therefore, people who travel from all over the world and famous contemporary figures all come to his house.
During the Qi Dynasty, Qingxi Palace was changed into Fanglin Garden. In the early years of Tianjian, Xiao Wei was given a residence. Xiao Wei also excavated and built buildings, planted beautiful trees and rare flowers and fruits, and made the carvings extremely gorgeous. He often played in the palace with guests, and ordered Xiao Zifan, a lieutenant, to write an inscription for the palace.
No prince of Liang Shifan's residence was more luxurious than Xiao Wei's.
However, he was a man of many kindnesses and had special sympathy for the poor and needy.
He often sends his close friends to visit people in the countryside. If there are poor people who cannot maintain their lives in the event of weddings or weddings, they will send people to provide relief and support them.
Wang Manying from Taiyuan passed away. Her family was too poor to bury her. Her friend Jiang Ge came to express condolences. Manying's wife and son cried and confided in Jiang Ge.
Jiang Ge said: King Jian'an understands the dispatch and will definitely take care of it for you.
Before he could finish his words, Xiao Wei's envoy arrived and provided subsidies for the funeral, so that all arrangements could be made.
Whenever there is severe cold and snow, people are sent to transport firewood and food, and they are given to those who are poor and have no food to eat.
In his later years, he believed in Buddhist teachings and was particularly proficient in metaphysics. He wrote "Er Zhiyi", which is particularly fresh and clear.
He also wrote "Xing Qing", "Several Gods" and other treatises. Among them, Seng Chong, Zhou She, Yin Gou and Lu Wa all had a reputation for being able to explain the meaning and principles very well and could not stump Xiao Wei.
Xiao Wei has four sons: Xiao Ke, Xiao Gong, Xiao Qian and Xiao Zhi.
The crown prince Xiao Ke succeeded.
Xiao Gong's courtesy name is Jingfan.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, he was granted the title of Marquis of Hengshan County. Due to the contribution of King Yuanxiang, the number of fiefs increased to 1,000 households.
At the beginning, the Marquis of Leshan Zhengze committed a crime and ordered all the princes to be punished. He only said to King Yuanxiang: Your son has no fault and has a right way of life.
Xiao Gong was appointed to Shizhong, and was transferred to Prince Xima.
When he went out, he served as governor of Qi'an and other eleven counties, general of Ningyuan, and prefect of two counties of Wuchang in Xiyang.
He was recruited as Secretary Cheng, transferred to Zhongshu Lang, and concurrently Danyang Yin, acting as agent for the affairs of Xu and South Xuzhou, and was appointed governor of Hengzhou. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
Soon he returned to serve as General Yunhui and governor of Xiangzhou.
Xiao Gong was good at handling political affairs and was praised everywhere. However, his character advocated luxury and extravagance. He vigorously built houses, built heavy rooms and corridors, and imitated palaces.
He especially likes to entertain guests and friends, feasting and drinking heartily all day long, the banquet is full of guests, and he talks tirelessly.
At that time, Shizu was guarding the place, attaching great importance to reputation, diligently writing, and never hosting banquets at will.
Xiao Gong often said to others calmly and calmly: "Looking at the people in the world, there are many people who don't like happiness, but they lie on their backs on the bed, looking at the rafters and writing books. After thousands of generations, who will still read this kind of book?"
Exhausting energy and thinking hard, but ultimately failing to become famous, how can it be compared to facing the fresh breeze, facing the bright moon, traveling around mountains and rivers, drinking and singing to your heart's content.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
寻以雍州蛮文道拘引魏寇，诏恭赴援，仍除持节、仁威将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史，便道之镇。
太宗少与恭游，特被赏狎，至是手令曰： 彼士流肮脏，有关辅余风，黔首扞格，但知重剑轻死。
降胡惟尚贪婪，边蛮不知敬让，怀抱不可皁白，法律无所用施。
愿充实边戍，无数迁徙，谍候惟远，箱庾惟积，长以控短，静以制躁。
早蒙爱念，敢布腹心。
恭至州，治果有声绩，百姓陈奏，乞于城南立碑颂德，诏许焉。
先高祖以雍为边镇，运数州之粟，以实储仓，恭后多取官米，赡给私宅，为荆州刺史庐陵王所启，由是免官削爵，数年竟不叙用。
侯景乱，卒于城中，时年五十二。
诏特复本封。
世祖追赠侍中、左卫将军。
谥曰僖。
世子静，字安仁，有美名，号为宗室后进。
有文才，而笃志好学，既内足于财，多聚经史，散书满席，手自雠校。
何敬容欲以女妻之，静忌其太盛，距而不纳，时论服焉。
历官太子舍人、东宫领直。
迁丹阳尹丞，给事黄门侍郎，深为太宗所爱赏。
太清三年，卒，赠侍中。
鄱阳忠烈王恢，字弘达，太祖第九子也。
幼聪颖，年七岁，能通《孝经》、《论语》义，发擿无所遗。
既长，美风表，涉猎史籍。
齐隆昌中，明帝作相，内外多虞，明帝就长沙宣武王懿求诸弟有可委以腹心者，宣武言恢焉。
明帝以恢为宁远将军，甲仗百人卫东府，且引为骠骑法曹行参军。
明帝即位，东宫建，为太子舍人，累迁北中郎外兵参军，前军主簿。
宣武之难，逃在京师。
高祖义兵至，恢于新林奉迎，以为辅国将军。
translation: 
Not long after, the Wei army was invaded by Yongzhou's barbarian culture. Emperor Shao ordered Xiao Gong to rush to the rescue. He was subsequently appointed Chijie, General Renwei, Ningman Colonel, and Yongzhou Governor. He walked from the small road to the town.
Taizong was friends with Xiao Gong when he was young, and was particularly appreciated and close to him. When he arrived in Japan, he personally issued an order saying: "The conduct of those scholars is filthy, and the remaining atmosphere of the three assistants in the inner circle is incompatible with the people. They only value fighting and despise death."
The surrendered Hu people only advocated greed, while the border barbarians did not know politeness and humility, could not distinguish right from wrong in their hearts, and could not enforce the law.
It is hoped that the border garrison force will be enriched, that there will be no constant migration, that reconnaissance sites be set up far away, that treasury assets be accumulated, that long-term strategies be used to control the current situation, and that calmness be used to subdue restlessness.
I was loved and cared for earlier, so I spoke from the bottom of my heart.
Xiao Gong came to the state, and his governance was indeed prestigious. The people petitioned to erect a monument in the south of the city to praise his merits, and the imperial edict allowed it.
It turns out that because Yongzhou was a border military town, Emperor Gaozu transported grain from several states to replenish his warehouse savings. Xiao Gong later used a lot of government rice to supply private individuals. This was reported by King Luling, the governor of Jingzhou, so he was dismissed from his official position, stripped of his title, and was not appointed for several years.
Hou Jing made a rebellion and Xiao Gong died in the city at the age of fifty-two.
The imperial edict specifically restored his original title.
Shizu posthumously awarded him the title of Shizhong and Zuowei General.
The overflow number is Xihou.
The eldest son Xiao Jing, also named Baoren, has a good reputation and is known as the rising star of the clan.
He was talented in literature, had a strong ambition and loved learning, and his family already had sufficient wealth, so he collected many classics and history books. The books were spread out enough to fill the seats, and he personally collated them.
He Jingrong wanted to marry his daughter to him, but Xiao Jing was afraid that he was too powerful, so she refused and refused to accept it. At that time, public opinion admired him.
He successively served as the crown prince's minister and the leader of the East Palace.
He was transferred to Qieyang Yincheng and served as the minister of Huangmen. He was deeply loved and appreciated by Taizong.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, he passed away and was given posthumously to his attendants.
Xiao Hui, the Zhonglie King of Poyang, also known as Hongda, was the ninth son of Taizu.
He has been smart since he was a child. At the age of seven, he could understand the meanings of "The Classic of Filial Piety" and "The Analects of Confucius" and explain difficult problems without omissions.
When he grows up, he has a beautiful appearance and is well-read in history books.
During the period of Longchang in Qi Dynasty, Emperor Ming was the prime minister. There were many difficulties inside and outside. Emperor Ming asked Xiao Yi, King Xuanwu of Changsha, to appoint him as his cousin. King Xuanwu mentioned Xiao Hui.
Emperor Ming appointed Xiao Zheng as General Ningyuan, leading a hundred soldiers to defend Shu Mansion, and appointed Cao Xing to join the army as a hussar.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and the prince was established. Xiao You served as the prince's family member. He was promoted to Bei Zhonglang, a foreign soldier, and joined the army. He was also the former army chief.
When King Xuanwu was in trouble, Xiao Hui took refuge in the capital.
When Gaozu's uprising army arrived, Xiao Hui went to Xinlin to welcome him and was appointed as the general of the auxiliary country.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
时三吴多乱，高祖命出顿破岗。
建康平，还为冠军将军、右卫将军。
天监元年，为侍中、前将军，领石头戍军事，封鄱阳郡王，食邑二千户。
二年，出为使持节、都督南徐州诸军事、征虏将军、南徐州刺史。
四年，改授都督郢、司二州诸军事、后将军、郢州刺史，持节如故。
义兵初，郢城内疾疫死者甚多，不及藏殡，及恢下车，遽命埋掩。
又遣四使巡行州部，境内大治。
七年，进号云麾将军，进督霍州。
八年，复进号平西将军。
十年，征为侍中、护军将军、石头戍军事，领宗正卿。
十一年，出为使持节、都督荆、湘、雍、益、宁、南、北梁、南、北秦九州诸军事、平西将军、荆州刺史，给鼓吹一部。
十三年，迁散骑常侍、都督益、宁、南、北秦、沙七州诸军事、镇西将军、益州刺史，使持节如故，便道之镇。
成都去新城五百里，陆路往来，悉订私马，百姓患焉，累政不能改。
恢乃市马千匹，以付所订之家，资其骑乘，有用则以次发之，百姓赖焉。
十七年，征为侍中、安前将军、领军将军。
十八年，出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督荆、湘、雍、梁、益、宁、南、北秦八州诸军事、征西将军、开府仪同三司、荆州刺史。
普通五年，进号骠骑大将军。
七年九月，薨于州，时年五十一。
诏曰： 故使持节、散骑常侍、都督荆、湘、雍、梁、益、宁、南、北秦八州诸军事、骠骑大将军、开府仪同三司、荆州刺史鄱阳王恢，风度开朗，器情凝质。
爰在弱岁，美誉克宣，洎于从政，嘉猷载缉。
方入正论道，弘燮台阶，奄焉薨逝，朕用伤恸于厥心。
宜隆宠命，以申朝典。
可赠侍中、司徒，王如故。
并给班剑二十人。
谥曰忠烈。
translation: 
At that time, there were many wars in Sanwu, and Emperor Gaozu ordered the army to be stationed in Suqi.
After Chuan Sanchen was settled, he returned to serve as General Champion and General Right Guard.
In the first year of Xing Dynasty, he served as a minister, former general, and leader of Shisheng Military Affairs. He was granted the title of Prince of Poyang County and had 2,000 households in the city.
In the second year, he went out to serve as envoy Chijie, governor-general of mutuyezhu military affairs, general conquering captives, and governor of southern Xuzhou.
In the fourth year, he was awarded the title of Commander-in-Chief of Ying, Commander of the Military Affairs Department of the Second Prefecture, and General of the Later Ying Prefecture, and the honors remained the same.
When the rebel army first started, many people died of diseases and plagues in Ying City, and there was no time to bury them. When Xiao Hui came to take office, he quickly ordered them to be buried.
Four envoys were also sent to inspect the territory of the state, and the territory was under great control.
In the seventh year, he was promoted to the rank of General Yunhui and was given additional command over Huozhou.
In the eighth year, he was promoted to General Pingxi.
In ten years, he was recruited as a servant, general of the army guard, stone garrison military, and Zong Zhengqing.
In the eleventh year, he served as envoy Chijie, governor of Jing, Xiang, Yong, Yi, Ning, Nanliang, Beiliang, Southern Qin, Northern Qin and Jiuzhou military affairs, general of Pingxi, and governor of Jingzhou, and was given the title of Advocate and Bubu.
In the 13th year, he was transferred to the regular ministers of Sanqi, the governors of Yi, Ning, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, and Shaqizhou military, the generals of Zhenxi, and the governor of Yizhou.
At that time, Chengdu was five hundred miles away from the new city, and all transportation was by land. All private horses were requisitioned, so the people regarded it as a disaster, and successive governors could not change it.
Xiao Hui then bought a thousand horses and delivered them to the requisitioned families for them to ride. When needed, he would requisition them one by one, and the people benefited from this.
In the seventeenth year, he was recruited as Shizhong, Anqian General, and Leading General.
In the eighteenth year, he served as envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, governor of Jing, Xiang, Yong, Liang, Yi, Ning, the eight states of Southern Qin and Northern Qin, general of Zhengxi, Kaifu Yitong three divisions, and governor of Jingzhou.
After five years of service, he was promoted to the rank of General of Hussars.
In September of the seventh year, he died in the state at the age of fifty-one.
Shaoling said: The late envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, the governor of Jing, Xiang, Yong, Liang, Yi, Ning, the military of the eight states of Southern Qin and Northern Qin, the general of Hussar, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of Jingzhou, Poyang Wang Xiaohui, had an open and cheerful demeanor, and a dignified and steady temperament.
From a young age, he has a good reputation and continues to have excellent political achievements and strategies until he enters politics.
Just when I was about to enter the court to comment on governance, Guangda Sangong suddenly passed away, so I felt sad and mournful.
The appointment should be solemnly presented to express the imperial code.
It can be given posthumously to Shizhong and Situ, and the king's title will remain the same.
And twenty men with swords were given as ceremonial guards.
Mi's nickname is Zhonglie.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
遣中书舍人刘显护丧事。
恢有孝性，初镇蜀，所生费太妃犹停都，后于都下不豫，恢未之知，一夜忽梦还侍疾，既觉忧遑，便废寝食。
俄而都信至，太妃已瘳。
后又目有疾，久废视瞻，有北渡道人慧龙得治眼术，恢请之。
既至，空中忽见圣僧，及慧龙下针，豁然开朗，咸谓精诚所致。
恢性通恕，轻财好施，凡历四州，所得俸禄随而散之。
在荆州，常从容问宾僚曰： 中山好酒，赵王好吏，二者孰愈？
众未有对者。
顾谓长史萧琛曰： 汉时王侯，籓屏而已，视事亲民，自有其职。
中山听乐，可得任性；彭祖代吏，近于侵官。
今之王侯，不守籓国，当佐天子临民，清白其优乎！
坐宾咸服。
世子范嗣。
范字世仪，温和有器识。
起家太子洗马、秘书郎，历黄门郎，迁卫尉卿。
每夜自巡警，高祖嘉其劳苦。
出为益州刺史，开通剑道，克复华阳，增邑一千户，加鼓吹。
征为领军将军、侍中。
范虽无学术，而以筹略自命。爱奇玩古，招集文才，率意题章，亦时有奇致。
复出为使持节、都督雍、梁、东益、南、北秦五州诸军事、镇北将军、雍州刺史。
范作牧莅民，甚得时誉；抚循将士，尽获欢心。
太清元年，大举北伐，以范为使持节、征北大将军、总督汉北征讨诸军事，进伐穰城。
寻迁安北将军、南豫州刺史。
侯景败于涡阳，退保寿阳，乃改范为合州刺史，镇合肥。
时景已蓄奸谋，不臣将露，范屡启言之，硃异每抑而不奏。
translation: 
Liu Xian, a member of Zhongshushe, was sent to attend to the funeral.
Xiao Hui had a filial character and guarded Shu at first. His biological mother, Fei Taifei, still lived in the capital. Later, he fell ill in the capital. Xiao Hui didn't know it. One night, he suddenly dreamed of returning to serve the sick. When he woke up, he was worried and restless, so he forgot to eat and sleep.
Soon the messenger from the capital arrived and the princess recovered.
Later, his eyes became ill and he could not see for a long time. Huilong, a Taoist from the north, got a way to treat his eyes. Xiao Hui asked him.
After arriving, a Bodhisattva suddenly appeared in the sky. When Huilong took the needle, he suddenly became enlightened. They all said that it was caused by Xiao Hui's sincerity.
Xiao Hui had a tolerant character and was fond of charity. He served in four states, and the salary he received was subsequently distributed.
When he was in Jingzhou, he once asked his guests and staff calmly: King Zhongshan likes to drink, and King Tang likes to be an official. Which one is more harmful?
No one answered.
Xiao Hui turned around and said to Chief Shi Xiao Chen: The princes of the Han Dynasty only maintained the country. They naturally had specialized positions to manage affairs and govern the people.
When the king of Zhongshan listened to music, he could act as he pleased; when Peng Zu took charge of political affairs, he was almost infringing on his duties.
Today's princes, instead of guarding the vassal state, should assist the emperor in governing the people. They can probably distinguish the best!
All the guests present were impressed.
The crown prince Xiao Fan succeeded him.
Xiao Fan, courtesy name Shiyi, is gentle, gentle and knowledgeable.
He served as Prince Xi Ma, Secretary Lang, successively served as Huang Menlang, and was promoted to Wei Qing.
He personally patrolled the guards every night, and Emperor Gaozu commended him for his hard work.
He went out to serve as the governor of Yizhou, opened up the way of swordsmanship, regained Huayang, added a thousand households to the city, and gave him more education and propaganda.
He was recruited as a leading general and a servant.
Although Xiao Fan was uneducated, he thought he had a strategy. He liked exotic items and antique artifacts, recruited scribes, and composed essays on random topics. He also had a wonderful taste from time to time.
He also went out to serve as envoy Chijie, governor of Yong, Liang, Dongyi, Southern Qin, and Northern Qin five states' military affairs, general of Zhenbei, and governor of Yongzhou.
Xiao Fan served as governor and governed the people, which was highly praised at the time; he appeased the generals and soldiers and completely won the people's favor.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, a large-scale expedition was launched to the north. Xiao Fan was appointed as the envoy Chijie, the general of the expedition to the north, and the governor of the Hanbei expedition. He marched to conquer the city.
Soon he was transferred to General Anbei and governor of Southern Yuzhou.
Hou Jing failed in Guoyang and retreated to Shouyang to defend, so he appointed Xiao Fan as the governor of Hezhou to guard Hefei.
At that time, Hou Jing had already hatched a treacherous plot, and the signs of disobedience were about to be revealed. Xiao Fan made many reports, but Zhu Yi always suppressed them and refused to report.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
及景围京邑，范遣世子嗣与裴之高等入援，迁开府仪同三司，进号征北将军。
京城不守，范乃弃合肥，出东关，请兵于魏，遣二子为质。
魏人据合肥，竟不出师助范，范进退无计，乃溯流西上，军于枞阳，遣信告寻阳王。
寻阳要还九江，欲共治兵西上，范得书大喜，乃引军至湓城，以晋熙为晋州，遣子嗣为刺史。
江州郡县，辄更改易，寻阳政令所行，惟存一郡，时论以此少之。
既商旅不通，信使距绝，范数万之众，皆无复食，人多饿死。
范恚，发背薨，时年五十二。
世子嗣，字长胤。
容貌豊伟，腰带十围。
性骁果有胆略，倜傥不护细行，而能倾身养士，皆得其死力。
范之薨也，嗣犹据晋熙，城中食尽，士乏绝，景遣任约来攻，嗣躬擐甲胄，出垒距之。
时贼势方盛，咸劝且止。
嗣按剑叱之曰： 今之战，何有退乎？
此萧嗣效命死节之秋也。
遂中流矢，卒于阵。
始兴忠武王嶦，字僧达，太祖第十一子也。
数岁，所生母吴太妃卒，嶦哀感傍人。
齐世，弱冠为西中郎法曹行参军，迁外兵参军。
义师起，南康王承制，以嶦为冠军将军、西中郎谘议参军，迁相国从事中郎，与南平王伟留守。
和帝立，以嶦为给事黄门侍郎。
时巴东太守萧慧训子璝等及巴西太守鲁休烈举兵逼荆州，屯军上明，镇军将军萧颖胄暴疾卒，西朝甚惧，尚书仆射夏侯祥议征兵雍州，南平王伟遣嶦赴之。
嶦以书喻璝等，旬日皆请降。
是冬，高祖平建业。
明年春，和帝将发江陵，诏以嶦为使持节、都督荆、湘、益、宁、南、北秦六州诸军事、平西将军、荆州刺史，未拜。
天监元年，加安西将军，都督、刺史如故。
封始兴郡王，食邑二千户。
时军旅之后，公私空乏，嶦厉精为治，广辟屯田，减省力役，存问兵死之家，供其穷困，民甚安之。
嶦自以少年始居重任，思欲开导物情。
translation: 
When Hou Jing surrounded the capital, Xiao Fan sent his sons Xiao Si and Pei Zhigao to the capital for rescue. He was promoted to the third division of Kaifu Yitong and was promoted to the title of General Zhengbei.
After the capital was lost, Xiao Fan abandoned Hefei and went to Shuguan, where he requested troops from Wei and sent his two sons as hostages.
The Wei army occupied Hefei, but in the end no troops were sent to assist Xiao Fan. Xiao Fan had no choice but to advance or retreat, so he went westward and stationed in Songyang, sending envoys to tell King Xunyang.
King Xunyang invited him back to Jiujiang and wanted to jointly organize the army to go west. Xiao Fan was overjoyed when he received the letter, so he led the army to Huancheng, established Jinzhou in Jinxi, and sent his son Xiao Si as the governor.
The counties and counties in Jiangzhou were changed at will. Where the Xunyang decree was implemented, only one county existed, and public opinion at that time belittled him.
Subsequently, roads were blocked and information was cut off. Xiao Fan's tens of thousands of troops no longer had food, and most of them starved to death.
Xiao Fan was so resentful that a sore broke out on his back and he died at the age of fifty-two.
The eldest son, Xiao Si, had the courtesy name Changyin.
He has a huge physique and a belt that reaches ten circumferences.
He has a courageous and courageous character, is outstanding and does not stick to trivial matters, and he is able to support his soldiers with all his heart, and their hard work will be rewarded.
After Xiao Fan died, Xiao Si still occupied Jinxi. The city ran out of food and the soldiers died of fatigue. Hou Jing sent Ren Yue to attack, but Xiao Ti personally put on his furnace armor and went out of the camp to resist.
At that time, the rebel army was becoming powerful, so they all advised him to stop for the time being.
Xiao Si put his sword in his hand and shouted at them: "In today's battle, is there any way out?"
This was the time when Xiao Si died serving the country with integrity.
So he was hit by a stray arrow and died in the battle.
Xiao Qi, the Zhongwu King of Shixing, whose courtesy name was Sengda, was the eleventh son of Taizu.
When he was a few years old, his biological mother Wu Taifei passed away, and Xiao Dan moved others with grief.
During the Qi Dynasty, when he became an adult, he served as Xizhong Langfa and Cao Xing and joined the army. He was transferred to foreign soldiers to join the army.
When the uprising army was launched, King Nankang followed his orders and appointed Xiao Dan as the champion general, Xizhonglang to join the army for consultation, and was transferred to the prime minister to serve as Zhonglang, while Xiao Wei, the king of Nanping, stayed behind.
Emperor He ascended the throne and appointed Xiao Dan as the Minister of Huangmen.
At that time, Xiao Huang, the son of Xiao Huixun, the governor of Badong, and Lu Xiulie, the governor of Brazil, raised troops to approach Jingzhou and stationed themselves in Shangming. Xiao Yingyi, the general of the town army, died of a sudden illness. The Western Dynasty was very frightened. Shangshu servant Xia Houxiang suggested that soldiers should be fine-tuned to Zongcong. Nanping Wang Gaijian sent Lutang to rush to rescue.
Gaidan wrote letters to enlighten Xiao Suo and others, and spent ten days urging them to surrender.
In the winter of this year, Emperor Gaozu pacified Jianye.
The following spring. Guitong will set out and issue an edict appointing Lu Deng as envoy Chijie, governor Xing, military commander of the six states of Xiang, Yi, Kong, Hutai and Jitai, general Pingxi, and governor of Jingzhou, but he did not take office.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was awarded the title of General Anxi, and the governor and governor remained as before.
He was granted the title of Prince of Shixing County and had 2,000 households in the city.
After the war, there was a shortage of public and private affairs. Xiao Kai worked hard to manage the land, vigorously cultivated farmland, reduced labor, visited families who died in the war, and provided for the poor. The people were very stable.
Xiao Qi thinks that he is young and has just reached an important position and wants to guide people's hearts.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
乃谓佐吏曰： 政之不臧，士君子所宜共惜。
言可用，用之可也；如不用，于我何伤？
吾开怀矣，尔其无吝。
于是小人知恩，而君子尽意。
民辞讼者，皆立前待符教，决于俄顷。
曹无留事，下无滞狱，民益悦焉。
三年，诏加鼓吹一部。
六年，州大水，江溢堤坏，嶦亲率府将吏，冒雨赋丈尺筑治之。
雨甚水壮，众皆恐，或请嶦避焉。
嶦曰： 王尊尚欲身塞河堤，我独何心以免。
乃刑白马祭江神。
俄而水退堤立。
邴州在南岸，数百家见水长惊走，登屋缘树，憺募人救之，一口赏一万，估客数十人应募救焉，州民乃以免。
又分遣行诸郡，遭水死者给棺槥，失田者与粮种。
是岁，嘉禾生于州界，吏民归美，嶦谦让不受。
七年，慈母陈太妃薨，水浆不入口六日，居丧过礼，高祖优诏勉之，使摄州任。
是冬，诏征以本号还朝。
民为之歌曰： 始兴王，民之爹。
赴人急，如水火。
何时复来哺乳我？
八年，为平北将军、护军将军、领石头戍事。
寻迁中军将军、中书令，俄领卫尉卿。
嶦性劳谦，降意接士，常与宾客连榻而坐，时论称之。
是秋，出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督南、北兗、徐、青、冀五州诸军事、镇北将军、南兗州刺史。
九年春，迁都督益、宁、南梁、南、北秦、沙六州诸军事、镇西将军、益州刺史。
开立学校，劝课就业，遣子映亲受经焉，由是多向方者。
translation: 
He said to the assistant officials: "It is a common pity for scholar-bureaucrats to have improper political affairs."
If the speech can be adopted, then it is okay to adopt it; if it cannot be adopted, what harm will it do to me?
I have opened my mind, you have nothing to worry about.
So the villain knows grace, and the gentleman does his best.
People who appealed stood in front of them waiting for the order, and the decision was made in an instant.
There are no deportation matters in the government, there are no delayed cases below, and the people are even happier.
In three years, the imperial edict was given to the Department of Propaganda.
In the sixth year, there was a flood in the prefecture and the Yangtze River overflowed its embankments. Xiao Dan personally led the generals and officials in the government to build embankments according to the prescribed standards despite the rain.
The rain was heavy and the water was strong, and everyone was frightened. Some people asked Xiao Dan to take shelter.
Xiao Dan said: "Wang Zunshang wants to block the dam of the Yellow River with his body, why would I want to avoid it?"
He killed the white horse to worship the river god.
Soon the water receded and embankments were built.
In Bingzhou, on the south bank of the Yangtze River, hundreds of families fled in panic when they saw the rising water. They boarded their houses and climbed branches. Xiao Qi recruited people to rescue them and offered a reward of 10,000 yuan for each person rescued. Dozens of businessmen responded to the recruitment and rescue, and the people in the state were saved from death.
He also dispatched envoys to each county, giving coffins to those who died in floods, and grain and seeds to those who lost their fields.
This year, auspicious seedlings appeared in the state borders. The officials and the people attributed the good things to him, but Xiao Dan Qianrang refused.
In the seventh year, his adoptive mother, Concubine Chen, passed away. Xiao Qi was still seven years old, and mourning exceeded the etiquette. Emperor Gaozu issued an edict of preferential treatment to persuade him, and asked him to take charge of the state affairs on his behalf.
In the winter of this year, he was summoned by imperial edict to return to the court in his own name.
The people made up songs about it and said: King Shiheung is the father of the people.
Saving people in distress is like water and fire.
When will you come to feed me again?
In eight years, Xiao Dan served as the general of Pingbei, the general of the army guard, and the leader of the stone garrison.
Soon he was transferred to the post of General of the Chinese Army, Zhongshu Ling, and subsequently Wei Qing of the Wei.
Xiao Qi was diligent and modest in character, received scholars with humility, and often sat at banquets with guests. Public opinion at that time praised him.
In the autumn of the year of dispatch, he went out to serve as envoy Chijie, regular servant of Sanqi, governor of the military affairs of the five states of Nan Yan, Bei Yan, Xu, Qing and Ji, general of Zhenbei, and governor of South Yanzhou.
In the spring of the ninth year, he was transferred to the military governors of Yi, Ning, Nanliang, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, and Sha six states, the general of Zhenxi, and the governor of Yizhou.
He established schools, rewarded and urged scholars to study, and sent his son Xiao Ying to receive scripture teachings in person, so there were many people who aspired to study.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
时魏袭巴南，西围南安，南安太守垣季珪坚壁固守，嶦遣军救之，魏人退走，所收器械甚众。
十四年，迁都督荆、湘、雍、宁、南梁、南、北秦七州诸军事、镇右将军、荆州刺史。
同母兄安成王秀将之雍州，薨于道。嶦闻丧，自投于地，席稿哭泣，不饮不食者数日，倾财产赙送，部伍小大皆取足焉。
天下称其悌。
十八年，征为侍中、中抚将军、开府仪同三司、领军将军。
普通三年十一月，薨，时年四十五。
追赠侍中、司徒、骠骑将军。
给班剑三十人，羽葆鼓吹一部。
册曰： 咨故侍中、司徒、骠骑将军始兴王：夫忠为令德，武谓止戈，于以用之，载在前志。
王有佐命之元勋，利民之厚德，契阔二纪，始终不渝，是用方轨往贤，稽择故训，鸿名美义，允臻其极。
今遣兼大鸿胪程爽，谥曰忠武。
魂而有灵，歆兹显号。
呜呼哀哉！
嶦未薨前，梦改封中山王，策授如他日，意颇恶之，数旬而卒。
世子亮嗣。
史臣曰：自昔王者创业，广植亲亲，割裂州国，封建子弟。
是以大旗少帛，崇于鲁、卫，盘石凝脂，树斯梁、楚。
高祖远遵前轨，籓屏懿亲。
至于安成、南平，鄱阳、始兴，俱以名迹著，盖亦汉之间、平矣。
translation: 
At that time, Wei attacked Banan and surrounded Nan'an to the west. Yuan Jigui, the prefect of Nan'an, strengthened the defense of the camp. Xiao Qi sent troops to rescue him. The Wei army retreated and confiscated a lot of equipment.
In the fourteenth year, he was transferred to the military governor of Jing, Xiang, Yong, Ning, Nanliang, Southern Qin, and Northern Qin seven states, general Zhenyou, and governor of Jingzhou.
His half-brother, Ancheng Wang Xiaoxiu, was about to go to Yongzhou and died on the way. When Xiao Dan heard about the funeral, he fell to the ground, lay on the straw and cried. He didn't eat or drink for several days. He spent all his property to help with the funeral, and all his subordinates had enough.
People all over the world call him a respected brother.
In the eighteenth year, he was recruited as Shizhong, Zhongfu General, Kaifu Yitong Third Division, and leading general.
He died in November of the third year of his life at the age of forty-five.
Posthumously presented to Shi Zhong, Situ, and General Hussar.
Thirty men with swords were given as ceremonial guards, and Yu Bao advocated one.
The mourning book says: The late Shizhong, Situ, and Hussar General Shixing Wang: Loyalty is a good virtue, martial arts is to stop wars, use them according to the situation, and it is recorded in the ancient books.
The king's first contribution to the founding of the country and his kindness to the people have remained unchanged for more than twenty years. Therefore, he is on the same level as the sages of the past. He carefully selects the ancient laws and regulations, and his reputation and reputation should be reached to the extreme.
Now Dahong is dispatched to Cheng Shuang, giving him the title of Zhongwu.
The soul seems to have a spiritual response and enjoys the illustrious name.
Alas!
Before Xiao Wei's death, he dreamed that he was promoted to the mountain king, and that he was given the same orders and appointments as in the past. He felt disgusted with the task, and died dozens of days later.
The crown prince Xiao Liang succeeded him.
Shi Chen said: Since the past, emperors established foundations, vigorously cultivated relatives, divided states and counties, and entrusted them to their children.
Therefore, flags, big and small, are respected in Dieli and Qianli, and are as solid as rocks, establishing You and Chuli.
Zhidanyuan followed the path of previous generations and used relatives to protect the royal family.
As for King Ancheng, King Nanping, King Poyang, and King Shixing, they are all famous for their fame and deeds, and they are probably the same type as King Hejian and King Dongping of the Han Dynasty.


