Summary line 0
Span: 81-111 (score=0.4537)

original:
贡者，赵广汉之兄子也，为吏亦有能名。
宣为相，府辞讼例不满万钱不为移书，后皆遵用薛侯故事。
然官属讥其烦碎无大体，不称贤也。
时天子好儒雅，宣经术又浅，上亦轻焉。
久之，广汉郡盗贼群起，丞相、御史遣掾史逐捕不能克。
上乃拜河东都尉赵护为广汉太守，以军法从事。
数月，斩其渠帅郑躬，降者数千人，乃平。
会邛成太后崩，丧事仓卒，吏赋敛以趋办。
其后上闻之，以过丞相、御史，遂册免宣曰： 君为丞相，出入六年，忠孝之行，率先百僚，朕无闻焉。
朕既不明，变异数见，岁比不登，仓廪空虚，百姓饥馑，流离道路，疾疫死者以万数，人至相食，盗贼并兴，群职旷废，是朕之不德而股肱不良也。
乃者广汉群盗横恣，残贼吏民，朕恻然伤之，数以问君，君对辄不如其实。
西州隔绝，几不为郡。
三辅赋敛无度，酷吏并缘为奸，侵扰百姓，诏君案验，复无欲得事实之意。
九卿以下，咸承风指，同时陷于谩欺之辜，咎繇君焉！
有司法君领职解嫚，开谩欺之路，伤薄风化，无以帅示四方。
不忍致君于理，其上丞相、高阳侯印绶，罢归。
初，宣为丞相，而翟方进为司直。
宣知方进名儒，有宰相器，深结厚焉。
后方进竟代为丞相，思宣旧恩，宣免后二岁，荐宣明习文法，练国制度，前所坐过薄，可复进用。
上征宣复爵高阳侯，加宠特进，位次师安昌侯，给事中，视尚书事。
宣复尊重。
任政数年，后坐善定陵侯淳于长罢就第。
初，宣有两弟，明、修：明至南阳太守；修历郡守、京兆尹、少府，善交接，得州里之称。
后母常从修居官。
宣为丞相时，修为临菑令，宣迎后母，修不遣。
后母病死，修去官持服。
宣谓修三年服少能行之者，兄弟相驳不可，修遂竟服，繇是兄弟不和。
久之，哀帝初即位，博士申咸给事中，亦东海人也，毁宣不供养行丧服，薄于骨肉，前以不忠孝免，不宜复列封侯在朝省。
宣子况为右曹侍郎，数闻其语，赇客杨明，欲令创咸面目，使不居位。
会司隶缺，况恐咸为之，遂令明遮斫咸宫门外，断鼻唇，身八创。
事不有司，御史中丞众等奏： 况朝臣，父故宰相，再封列侯，不相敕丞化，而骨肉相疑，疑咸受修言以谤毁宣。

translation:
Tangong was the son of Zhao Guanghan's elder brother, and he had a reputation as a capable official.
Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and the custom of accepting lawsuits was that documents less than ten thousand yuan would not be handed over. Later generations followed the precedent of Xue Hou.
However, the subordinates accused him of being complicated and trivial and without important points, and could not be called a wise man.
At that time, the emperor liked erudite Confucian scholars, but Xue Xuan's classics knowledge was very shallow, and the emperor also despised him.
After a long time, hordes of thieves arose in Guanghan County, and the prime minister and censor dispatched officers to pursue and hunt them down, but they could not be quelled.
The emperor appointed Captain Chang Hu of Hedong as the prefect of Guanghan to handle affairs according to the laws governing the army.
A few months later, they beheaded their commander Zheng Gong and surrendered thousands of people before they were pacified.
When the Empress Dowager Qiongcheng died, the funeral was in a hurry, and the officials collected taxes to handle it quickly.
Later, the emperor heard about this incident and used it to blame the prime minister and the censor. He issued an edict to dismiss Xue Xuan and said: As prime minister, you have been in office for six years, but I have never heard of your loyal and filial behavior and the actions of setting an example for all officials.
Since I am not a saint, disasters and disasters have occurred many times. There have been no harvests for years. The warehouses have been empty. The people have suffered from famine. They have been scattered on the roads. The number of people who died due to diseases and plagues has been counted in the tens of thousands, even to the point of cannibalism. Robbers and thieves have sprung up. Many positions have been vacant. This is because I have no virtue and the ministers who assist me are incompetent.
In the past, many thieves in Guanghan County were rampant and brutal, killing officials and people. I felt sad and sad about this incident. I asked you many times, but your answers were always inconsistent with the facts.
Xizhou is so isolated that it is barely a county.
There is no limit to the taxes collected by the third assistant. The cruel officials collude with each other to do bad things and invade and harass the people. You are ordered to investigate the case, but you have no intention of getting the true situation of the matter.
The nine ministers and below all acted according to your will and were all guilty of deception. The fault was your fault.
A judicial officer impeached you in accordance with the law for your laxity and negligence in holding office, which opened the way to deception, damaged and weakened moral education, and failed to set an example for the world.
I can't bear to send you to the judge. You should hand in the seal of Prime Minister Gao Yanghou and be dismissed from your post and go home.
At the beginning, Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and Zhai Fangjin was appointed minister.
Xue Xuan knew that Zuo Jin was a famous Confucian scholar and had the talents of a prime minister, so he made a close friendship with him.
Later, Fang Jin actually replaced him as prime minister. In gratitude for Lian Xuan's past kindness, two years after Yan Xuan was dismissed, Fang Jin recommended that Xue Xuan clearly understood the legal provisions and was familiar with the country's various systems. The mistakes he had made previously were minor and he could be promoted again.
The emperor conscripted Changen, and granted him the title of Zhizui, plus the favored title of Tejin. His status was second to that of the Marquis of Anchang, the national advisor, and he was assigned to Shizhong and also in charge of the affairs of the minister.
Lan Xuan was respected again.
He participated in political affairs for several years. Later, he was convicted of being friendly with Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
At first, Xue Xuan had two younger brothers, Xue Ming and Xue Xiu. Xue Mingguan went to Nanyang Prefecture. Xue Xiu served successively as county magistrate, Jing Zhaoyin, and Shaofu. He was good at communicating with people and was praised by the villagers.
The stepmother followed Xue Xiu in official posts for a long time.
When Xue Xuan was the prime minister, Xue Xiu was appointed as the Order of Chuojian. Sa Xuan welcomed his stepmother, but Xue Xiu refused to send her away.
When his stepmother fell ill and died, Xue Xiu resigned from his official position to mourn.
Xue Xuan told Xue Xiu that three years of mourning was rarely possible. The brothers refuted each other and had disagreements. Xue Xiu then completed the mourning period, so the brothers were not harmonious.
A long time later, when Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne, Dr. Shen Xianren came to Shizhong, who was also from Donghai. He slandered Xue Xuan by saying that Xue Xuan did not provide for his mother, that he did not wear mourning clothes after his mother died, and that he had little affection for his flesh and blood. He had previously been dismissed from office due to disloyalty and unfilial piety, and he should not be made a marquis and stay in the imperial office again.
Zhengxuan's son Bichi was appointed as the minister of Youcao. Hearing his words many times, he bribed Yang Ming, a retainer, in order to disfigure Shenxian's face and prevent him from holding an official position.
There happened to be a vacancy in the post of secretary, and Xue Kuang was worried that Shen Sheng would become the secretary, so he ordered Yang Ming to block the road outside the palace gate and attack Shen Qi, cutting off his nose and lips, and causing eight wounds on his body.
The matter was handed over to Yousi, and Yushi Zhongchengzhong and others reported: Xue Kuang is a minister in the court, and his father was the original prime minister. He was named a prince twice. He did not warn each other and uphold the teachings. Instead, his flesh and blood were suspicious of each other. He suspected that Shen Xian listened to Xue Xiu's words and slandered Xue Xuan.

summary:
Xue Xuan, a native of Tan County, Shuhai, rose from minor official posts to become a respected administrator. Known for his integrity and legal expertise, he served as Censor Zhongcheng under Emperor Cheng, advocating for simpler governance and criticizing harsh laws that disrupted social harmony. His memorials urged leniency and moral cultivation, which the emperor approved. As governor of Linhuai and later Chenliu, he quelled bandits and earned widespread respect. In Zuo Fengyi, he skillfully handled corrupt officials like Yang Zhan and Xie You, using subtle pressure to force their resignations, while also reassigning ineffective magistrates to improve governance. Xue Xuan’s fair and compassionate rule, including his handling of a jailer’s suicide, won him praise. He was promoted to Shaofu and later, on Gu Yong’s recommendation, became Imperial Censor and then Prime Minister, enfeoffed as Marquis of Gaoyang. However, his tenure was marred by criticism for being overly meticulous and lacking depth in classical learning. After failing to quell uprisings in Guanghan and mishandling tax collection during a funeral, he was dismissed by the emperor for incompetence. Later reinstated as a special advisor, he was again dismissed for associating with the disgraced Chunyu Chang. His later years were troubled by family discord with his brother Xue Xiu over mourning rites, and his son Xue Kuang’s violent attack on Shen Xian, who had slandered Xue Xuan. Despite legal debates, Xue Kuang was exiled, and Xue Xuan died at home as a commoner.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 279-311 (score=0.3919)

original:
自微贱至富贵，食不重味，案上不过三怀，夜寝早起，妻希见其面。
有一女，无男。
然好乐士大夫，为郡守九卿，宾客满门，欲仕宦者荐举之，欲报仇怨者解剑以带之。
其趋事待士如是，博以此自立，然终用败。
初，哀帝祖母定陶太后欲求称尊号，太后从弟高武侯傅喜为大司马，与丞相孔光、大司空师丹共持正议。
孔乡侯傅晏亦太后从弟，谄谀欲顺指，会博新征用为京兆尹，与交结，谋成尊号，以广孝道。
由是师丹先免，博代为大司空，数燕见奏封事，言： 丞相光志在自守，不能忧国；大司马喜至尊至亲，阿党大臣，无益政治。
上遂罢喜遣就国，免光为庶人，以博代光为丞相，封阳乡侯，食邑二千户。
博上书让曰： 故事封丞相不满千户，而独臣过制，诚惭惧，愿还千户。
上许焉。
傅太后怨傅喜不已，使孔乡侯晏风丞相，令奏免喜侯。
博受诏，与御史大夫赵玄议，玄言： 事已前决，得无不宜？
博曰： 已许孔乡侯有指。
匹夫相要，尚相得死，何况至尊？
博唯有死耳！
玄即许可。
博恶独斥奏喜，以故大司空汜乡侯何武前亦坐过免就国，事与喜相似，即并奏： 喜、武前在位，皆无益于治，虽已退免，爵士之封非所当得也。请皆免为庶人。
上知傅太后素常怨喜，疑博、玄承指，即召玄诣尚书问状。
玄辞服，有诏左将军彭宣与中朝者杂问。
宣等劾奏： 博宰相，玄上卿，晏以外亲封位特进，股肱大臣，上所信任，不思竭诚奉公，务广恩化，为百寮先，皆知喜、武前已蒙恩诏决，事更三赦，博执正道，亏损上恩，以结信贵戚，背君乡臣，倾乱政治，奸人之雄，附下罔上，为臣不忠不道；玄知博所言非法，枉义附从，大不敬；晏与博议免喜，失礼不敬。
臣请诏谒者召博、玄、晏诣廷尉诏狱。
制曰： 将军、中二千石、二千石、诸大夫、博士、议郎议。
右将军蟜望等四十四人以为： 如宣等言，可许。
谏大夫龚胜等十四人以为： 《春秋》之义，奸以事君，常刑不舍。
鲁大夫叔孙侨如欲颛公室，谮其族兄季孙行父于晋，晋执囚行父以乱鲁国，《春秋》重而书之。
今晏放命圯族，干乱朝政，要大臣以罔上，本造计谋，职为乱阶，宜与博、玄同罪，罪皆不道。
上减玄死罪三等，削晏户四分之一，假谒者节召丞相诣廷尉诏狱。
博自杀，国除。
初，博以御史为丞相，封阳乡侯，玄以少府为御史大夫，并拜于前殿，廷登受策，有音如钟声。
语在《五行志》。
赞曰：薛宣、朱博皆起佐史，历位以登宰相。
宣所在而治，为世吏师，及居大位，以苛察失名，器诚有极也。
博驰聘进取，不思道德，已亡可言，又见孝成之世委任大臣，假借用权。

translation:
From the humble to the rich and noble, there is no variety of dishes for meals, and there are no more than three bowls and plates on the table. He sleeps peacefully at night and gets up early, and his wife rarely sees him.
Has a daughter but no son.
However, he was willing to make friends with scholar-bureaucrats. When he was the governor of Jiuqing, the house was full of guests. Those who wanted to be officials recommended him, and those who wanted revenge took off their swords and brought them to him.
Zhu Bo managed world affairs and treated scholars like this, so he made great achievements with his own strength, but in the end he was defeated.
At first, Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtao, wanted to take the honorary title. The Empress Dowager's cousin Gao Wuhou Fu happy was appointed as the Grand Sima. Together with the Prime Minister Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Shidan, he insisted on integrity.
Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, was also the cousin of the Queen Mother. He was flattering and wanted to obey the Queen Mother's wishes. When Zhu Bo had just been recruited and appointed as Jing Zhaoyin, he colluded with him in an attempt to get the Queen Mother a title to promote filial piety.
Therefore, Shi Dan was dismissed from office first, and Zhu Bo replaced him as the Grand Sikong. He presented sealed memorials to the inner court many times, saying: Prime Minister Jie Guang's ambition is to protect himself and not to worry about the country; Grand Sima Fuxi is extremely noble and is the closest relative, but he flatters the ministers and forms cliques with the ministers, which is not beneficial to political governance.
The emperor then dismissed Fu happy and banished him back to his fiefdom. He dismissed Kong Guang as a commoner and appointed Zhu Bo as prime minister instead of Kong Guang.
Zhu Bo presented a memorial and declined, saying: "According to precedent, the number of food fiefs granted to the prime minister does not exceed one thousand households, but I am the only one who exceeded the limit. I am really ashamed and afraid, and I hope to return one thousand households."
The emperor granted his request.
Empress Dowager Fu was still resentful of Fu happy, so she sent Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, to persuade the prime minister politely and ordered him to write a memorial to remove Fu happy from his position.
Zhu Bo accepted the Queen Mother's order and discussed it with the imperial censor, Tang Xuan. Tang Xuan said: "The matter has been decided before. Wouldn't it be inappropriate to do this?"
Zhu Bo said: "I have agreed to the Marquis Kong Xiang, and it is the Queen Mother's will."
The common people prayed to each other and even died for him, let alone the supreme Queen Mother?
I only have one death left.
Tuxuan then agreed.
Zhu Bo did not want to reprimand Fu Xi alone. Since the original chief minister, Fanxiang Hou He Wu, had been dismissed from his post and returned to his fiefdom due to his fault. The situation was similar to Fu Xi's, so he raised the memorial together: Fu Xi and He Wu were officials before, which was not beneficial to political governance. Although they have been dismissed from office, the rewards of titles and fiefs are not what they deserve. Please exempt them from civilian status.
The emperor knew that Empress Dowager Fu always resented Fu happy and suspected that Zhu Bo and Zhao Xuan had accepted the empress dowager's order, so he summoned Xuan Xuan to the minister to interrogate the truth.
After Te Xuan confessed, the emperor ordered General Peng Xuan of the Left to interrogate him together with Chinese and Korean officials.
Peng Xuan and other impeachment officials said: Zhu Bo is the prime minister, Zhao Xuan is the minister, Fu Yan was granted the title because he was a relative of his maternal family, and he occupies a special position. They are all assistant ministers and people trusted by the emperor. They do not consider being loyal to the emperor, but focus on official affairs. They are committed to promoting kindness and education and setting an example for all officials. Everyone knows that Fu happy and He Wu have already made decisions with the emperor's favor, and the matter has been pardoned three times. Zhu Bo persisted in heresy, harmed the emperor's kindness, made friends with relatives who had the trust of the nobles, betrayed the emperor, favored ministers, overturned and disrupted political affairs. He was the leader of treacherous ministers, supported his ministers, deceived the emperor, was unfaithful as a minister, and did not abide by the rules of a minister. Tsang Xuan knew that what Zhu Bo said was illegal and it was disrespectful to distort moral principles and obey. Fu Yan and Zhu Bo discussed removing Fu happy from his position, which was disrespectful.
We asked the emperor to order his visitors to summon Zhu Bo, Tang Xuan, and Fu Yan to go to the prison where Tingwei held the prisoners.
The emperor ordered: The general, the officials who have won two thousand stones, the officials of two thousand stones, all the officials, doctors, and Yilang will discuss it.
Forty-four people including Right General Jiao Wang believed that it could be allowed as Peng Xuan and others said.
Fourteen people including Gong Sheng, the remonstrating official, believed that according to the righteousness of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the ministers used evil and cunning to serve the monarch, which was unacceptable under the national law.
If Uncle Sun Qiao, a senior official in the Lu State, wanted to dominate the state affairs of the Lu State, he framed his elder brother Ji Sun Xingfu to the Jin State. The state of Jin arrested and imprisoned Xingfu to disturb the state of Lu. The Spring and Autumn Annals paid attention to and recorded this incident.
Now Fu Yan has given up the decree and destroyed the clan, interfered and disrupted the court affairs, and made friends with ministers to deceive the emperor. He set up schemes, which is the main source of trouble. He should be charged with the same crime as Zhu Bo and Tang Xuan, both of whom are guilty of treason.
The emperor exempted Fu Yan from the third-class death penalty, cut off a quarter of Fu Yan's food, and asked the visitors to summon the prime minister to the prison where the prisoners were held.
Zhu Bo committed suicide and the fief was taken back.
At the beginning, Zhu Bo was promoted from imperial censor to prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxiang. Zhao Xuan was promoted from the Shaofu to the imperial censor, and he received his official position in the front hall together. When he was led to the hall to receive his orders, there was a loud sound like the ringing of a bell.
This incident is recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
Zan said: Xue Xuan and Zhu Bo both came from Zushi, and successively held official positions and were promoted to prime ministers.
Xue Xuan's place was well governed, and he was a teacher of the officials of the time. When he became prime minister, he lost his reputation because he showed his shrewdness by being harsh and cumbersome, and his talents were indeed limited.
Zhu Bo worked hard to make progress without considering morality and justice, which was nothing worthy of praise. He also saw that during the Xiaocheng era, he entrusted important responsibilities to ministers, so he resorted to abusing his power.

summary:
Zhu Bo, from Duling, began as a poor county official, known for his boldness and friendship with elite sons like Chen Xian. He famously disguised himself to save Chen Xian from prison, enduring punishment himself, which launched his reputation. Under Wang Feng, he became magistrate of several counties, excelling in governance. As governor of Jizhou, he astutely handled a flood of complaints by issuing swift verdicts, astonishing officials. In Langye, he aggressively reformed lax customs, dismissing sick officials and enforcing strict dress codes, while using intimidation and rewards to control subordinates. His tenure in Zuo Fengyi was marked by cunning and harshness, such as rehabilitating a scarred thief as an informant and exposing corrupt officials through psychological tactics. Promoted to Da Si Nong and later Tingwei, he demonstrated legal acumen by correctly predicting case outcomes. He became Grand Sikong under Emperor Ai, advocating for restoring the Censor’s office over the Grand Sikong post, arguing it better suited the Han system. He also reversed the abolition of provincial governors, favoring their supervisory role. Frugal and workaholic, Zhu Bo shunned luxury but cultivated a network of guests, aiding their ambitions. However, he became entangled in court intrigues, allying with Fu Yan to please Empress Dowager Dingtao, leading to the dismissal of rivals like Kong Guang. As Prime Minister, he was pressured by the empress dowager to impeach Fu Xi, but the emperor discovered his collusion. Interrogated, Zhu Bo was charged with treason for manipulating affairs with relatives, and he committed suicide, his fief revoked. His rise and fall exemplified ambition without moral restraint, as noted in historical critiques.

================================================================================

