Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝景皇帝，文帝太子也。
母曰窦皇后。
后七年六月，文帝崩。
丁未，太子即皇帝位，尊皇太后薄氏曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
九月，有星孛于西方。
元年冬十月，诏曰： 盖闻古者祖有功而宗有德，制礼乐各有由。
歌者，所以发德也；舞者，所以明功也。
高庙酎，奏《武德》、《文始》《五行》之舞。
孝惠庙酎，奏《文始》、《五行》之舞。
孝文皇帝临天下，通关梁，不异远方；除诽谤，去肉刑，赏赐长老，收恤孤独，以遂群生；减耆欲，不受献，罪人不帑，不诛亡罪，不私其利也；除宫刑，出美人，重绝人之世也。
朕既不敏，弗能胜识。
此皆上世之所不及，而孝文皇帝亲行之。
translation: 
Emperor Jing of Han was the prince of Emperor Wen of Han.
His mother is Queen Dou.
In June of the seventh year of the Second Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Wen died.
On June 9, the prince succeeded to the throne and honored the empress dowager Bo as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager Dou as the empress dowager.
In September, a comet appeared in the west.
In the winter and tenth month of the first year of Emperor Jingdi's reign, the emperor issued an edict saying: I have often heard that in ancient times, the ancestors who conquered the world had merit, and the ancestors who governed the world had virtue, and rituals and music had their own origins.
Singing is used to praise great virtues; dancing is used to express achievements.
Offer sacrifices to Emperor Gaozu in the temple and perform the dances of "Wude", "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Offer sacrifices to Emperor Hui in the temple and perform the dances of "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Emperor Wen reigned over the world, and his government was harmonious, far and near; he eliminated the crime of slandering the emperor, stopped corporal punishment, rewarded the elderly and virtuous, comforted the lonely and helpless, and fulfilled the wishes of his subjects as much as possible; he controlled his hobbies and desires, did not accept donations, did not implicate the wife and children of sinners, did not let innocent people suffer injustice, was strict with himself, and enforced the law impartially; abolished palace punishment, and repatriated beauties in the palace to avoid having no heirs.
I am stupid by nature, and I still don’t know all about my father’s merits.
Only the above points were failed to be implemented by the ancient sage emperors and sage kings, but Emperor Wen implemented them all.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
德厚侔天地，利泽施四海，靡不获福。
明象乎日月，而庙乐不称，朕甚惧焉。
其为孝文皇帝庙为《昭德》这舞，以明休德。
然后祖宗之功德，施于万世，永永无穷，朕甚嘉之。
其与丞相、列侯、中二千石、礼官具礼仪奏。
丞相臣嘉等奏曰： 陛下永思孝道，立《昭德》之舞以明孝文皇帝之盛德，皆臣嘉等愚所不及。
臣谨议：世功莫大于高皇帝，德莫盛于孝文皇帝。
高皇帝庙宜为帝者太祖之庙，孝文皇帝庙宜为帝者太宗之庙。
天子宜世世献祖宗之庙。
郡国诸侯宜各为孝文皇帝立太宗之庙。
诸侯王、列侯使者侍祠天子所献祖宗之庙。请宣布天下。
制曰 可 。
春正月，诏曰： 间者岁比不登，民多乏食，夭绝天年，朕甚痛之。
郡国或硗狭，无所农桑系畜；或地饶广，荐草莽，水泉利，而不得徙。
translation: 
It can be said that great virtues are matched in heaven and earth, blessings are spread all over the world, and everyone is blessed.
Its holy brightness is like the sun and menstruation in the sky, but the music and dance of the sacrifice do not match it. I am deeply disturbed.
For this reason, the "Zhao De" dance should be performed for Emperor Wen's temple to highlight his virtues.
In this way, the merits of our ancestors can be passed down to all generations and will last forever, and I will be infinitely happy.
I hope that the prime minister, the princes, Zhong Erqianshi, and the etiquette officials will propose specific etiquette plans.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia and others said: Your Majesty always thinks of filial piety, and performs the dance of virtue to show the virtue of Emperor Xiaowen, which is beyond the understanding of the ministers.
I would like to discuss this: There is no one who was more successful in founding the country than Emperor Gao, and no one was more benevolent and virtuous than Emperor Wen.
Therefore, the Emperor Gao Temple should be the Taizu Temple of the Emperor's family, and the Emperor Wen Temple should be the Taizong Temple of the Emperor's family.
The emperors of the Han Dynasty should pay homage to their ancestors from generation to generation.
The princes of the prefecture and state should each establish a temple for Emperor Wen of Taizong.
The princes and princes sent envoys to Kyoto to offer sacrifices at the ancestral temple. Please announce it to the world.
Emperor Jing agreed.
The first month of spring. The edict was issued: "In recent years, the situation has been bad. Many people are short of food, and some have died of hunger. I deeply regret it."
Some counties have barren land and cannot develop farming; others have vast land, deep pastures, and excellent water conservancy conditions, but cannot be developed by immigrants.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其议民欲徙宽大地者，听之。 夏四月，赦天下。赐民爵一级。
遣御史大夫青翟至代下与匈奴和亲。
五月，令田半租。
秋七月，诏曰： 吏受所监临，以饮食免，重；受财物，贱买贵卖，论轻。
廷尉与丞相更议著令。
廷尉信谨与丞相议曰： 吏及诸有秩受其官属所监、所治、所行、所将，其与饮食，计偿费，勿论。
它物，若买故贱，卖故贵，皆坐臧为盗，没入臧县官。
吏迁徙免罢，受其故官属所将监治送财物，夺爵为士伍，免之。
无爵，罚金二斤，令没入所受。
有能捕告，畀其所受臧。
二年冬十二月，有星孛于西南。
令天下男子年二十始傅。
translation: 
To this end, people in areas with infertile soil can be encouraged to move freely to areas with vast and fertile land. In the fourth month of summer, a general amnesty was granted to all the people, and the people were granted a first-level title.
Qing Zhai, the imperial censor, was sent to Daixia to make peace with the Huns.
In May, an order was issued to reduce the rent of farmland by half.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: The current law punishes officials in charge of being dismissed from their posts for accepting banquets from subordinates, while the punishment for accepting property, buying cheap and selling high to make huge profits is too light.
Wang Tingwei and the Prime Minister re-formulated the regulations.
Ting Weixin and Prime Minister Shen Tujia agreed on a new law as follows: Officials and civil servants and generals with noble rank who accept banquets from their subordinate organizations and individuals must repay the price according to the price and will not be punished.
Any items other than food and drink that are purchased at a lower price or sold at a higher price by taking advantage of one's authority will be investigated as stolen goods and confiscated to the official.
When officials are transferred or dismissed, if they accept gifts of property from their original subordinates, their titles will be removed and they will be dismissed.
Those who do not have a title will be fined two catties and their property will be confiscated.
Those who can report will be rewarded with the stolen goods they did not receive.
In the winter of December of the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, a comet appeared in the southwest.
It is ordered that all men over the age of 20 can serve as assistant officials.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
春三月，立皇子德为河间王，阏为临江王，馀为淮阳王，非为汝南王，彭祖为广川王，发为长沙王。
夏四月壬午，太皇太后崩。
六月，丞相嘉薨。
封故相国萧何孙系为列侯。
秋，与匈奴和亲。
三年冬十二月，诏曰： 襄平侯嘉子恢说不孝，谋反，欲以杀嘉，大逆无道。
其赦嘉为襄平侯，及妻子当坐者复故爵。论恢说及妻子如法。
春正月，淮阳王宫正殿灾。
吴王濞、胶西王卬、楚王戊、赵王遂、济南王辟光、菑川王贤、胶东王雄渠皆举兵反。
大赦天下。
遣太尉亚夫、大将军窦婴将兵击之。
斩御史大夫晁错以谢七国。
二月壬子晦，日有蚀之。
诸将破七国，斩首十余万级。
追斩吴王濞于丹徒。
胶西王卬、楚王戊、赵王遂、济南王辟光、菑川王贤、胶东王雄渠皆自杀。
夏六月，诏曰： 乃者吴王濞等为逆，起兵相胁，诖误吏民，吏民不得已。
今濞等已灭，吏民当坐濞等及逋逃亡军者，皆赦之。
楚元王子艺等与濞等为逆，朕不忍加法，除其籍，毋令污宗室。
立平陆侯刘礼为楚王，续元王后。
立皇子端为胶西王，胜为中山王。赐民爵一级。
translation: 
In the third month of spring, Prince De was named King of Hejian, Prince Yan was named King of Linjiang, Prince Yu was named King of Huaiyang, Prince Fei was named King of Runan, Prince Pengzu was named King of Guangchuan, and Prince Fa was named King of Changsha.
On the 25th of April in the summer, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In June, Prime Minister Shen Tujia passed away.
Xiao Xi, the grandson of Xiao He, the former prime minister, was made a lord.
In autumn, he made peace with the Xiongnu.
In the twelfth month of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued an edict saying: Hui, the son of Marquis Ji Jia of Xiangping, said he was unfilial, attempted rebellion, and wanted to kill Jia, which was actually a great treason.
Ji Jia is now pardoned and remains the Marquis of Xiangping. All those whose wives should have been seated according to the law are restored to their original rank, while Huishuo and his wife are executed.
In the first month of spring, a fire broke out in the main hall of Huaiyang Palace.
King Liu Bi of Wu, King Liu Xian of Jiaoxi, King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Zhao, King Liu Biguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Zichuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Jiaodong jointly raised troops to rebel.
Emperor Jing ordered a general amnesty for the whole country.
He sent Taiwei Zhou Yafu and General Dou Ying to lead the expedition.
Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, suggested cutting down the vassal vassal to avoid being too powerful to appease the seven kingdoms that launched a rebellion.
On the first day of February, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The soldiers commanded by Zhou Yafu and Dou Ying defeated the rebels of the Seven Kingdoms and beheaded more than 100,000 people.
Chasing and killing Wu Wang Biyu Dan Tu.
Wang Yan of Jiaoxi, Wang Wu of Chu, Wang Sui of Zhao, Wang Biguang of Jinan, Wang Xian of Zichuan, and Wang Xiongqu of Jiaodong all committed suicide.
In the sixth month of summer, Emperor Jing issued an edict saying: In the past, King Wu and others rebelled, raised troops to threaten the court, and deceived the officials and the people, so the officials and the people had no choice but to obey.
Now that Liu Bi and others have been eliminated, the deceived officials and civilians and the soldiers who fled will not be held accountable for the law of sitting together, but will be pardoned.
Liu Yi, the son of King Chu Yuan, participated in the rebellion of Liu Bi and others. I could not bear to bring him to justice and expelled him from the royal family tree to avoid tarnishing the clan.
Fengping Luhou Liu Li was made King of Chu to succeed King Yuan.
The prince Liu Duan was made the King of Jiaoxi and Liu Sheng was the King of Zhongshan. They were rewarded with the first-level civilian title.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
四年春，复置诸关用传出入。
夏四月己巳，立皇子荣为皇太子，彻为胶东王。
六月，赦天下，赐民爵一级。
秋七月，临江王阏薨。
十月戊戌晦，日有蚀之。
五年春正月，作阳陵邑。
夏，募民徙阳陵，赐钱二十万。
遣公主嫁匈奴单于。
六年冬十二月，雷，霖雨。
秋九月，皇后薄氏废。
七年冬十一月庚寅晦，日有蚀之。
春正月，废皇太子荣为临江王。
二月，罢太尉官。
夏四月乙巳，立皇后王氏。
丁巳，立胶东王彻为皇太子。
赐民为父后者爵一级。
中元年夏四月，赦天下，赐民爵一级。封故御史大夫周苛、周昌孙子为列侯。
二年春二月，令诸侯王薨、列侯初封及之国，大鸿胪奏谥、诔、策。
translation: 
In the spring of the fourth year, inspection of entry and exit documents at all checkpoints was resumed.
On the 21st of April in the summer, the prince Liu Rong was made the crown prince, and Liu Che was made the king of Jiaodong.
In June, a general amnesty was granted to the people, and the people were rewarded with first-level titles.
In the seventh month of autumn, the king of Linjiang, Liu Yan, passed away.
On October 30, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the spring of the fifth year of Emperor Jing's reign, Yangling City was built.
In the summer, people were recruited to move to Yangling and given 200,000 yuan.
The princess was selected to marry the Xiongnu Chanyu.
In the winter of the sixth year in December, there was thunder and heavy rain.
In autumn and September, Queen Bo was deposed.
On November 30, winter of the seventh year, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the first month of spring, the deposed crown prince was honored as King Linjiang.
In February, the Taiwei officer was dismissed.
On the 17th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, the queen was named Wang.
On April 29, Liu Che, King of Jiaodong, was made the crown prince.
The first rank of title is given to the heir of his father among the common people.
In the summer and April of the Zhongyuan year, a general amnesty was granted to all the people, and the subjects were rewarded with first-level titles. The grandsons of Zhou Ke and Zhou Chang, the former imperial censors, were made marquises.
二年春二月，景帝下令：各侯王去世，派列侯到他的封国进行吊唁，由大鸿胪奏其行迹，朝廷赐予谥号与哀策诔文。


Chunk 5: 
original: 
列侯薨及诸侯太傅初除之官，大行奏谥、诔、策。
王薨，遣光禄大夫吊襚、祠、赗，视丧事，因立嗣子。
列侯薨，遣太中大夫吊祠，视丧事，因立嗣。
其葬，国得发民挽丧、穿、复土，治坟无过三百人毕事。
匈奴入燕。
改磔曰弃市，勿复磔。
三月，临江王荣坐侵太宗庙地，征诣中尉，自杀。
夏四月，有星孛于西北。
立皇子越为广川王，寄为胶东王。
秋七月，更郡守为太守，郡尉为都尉。
九月，封故楚、赵傅、相、内史前死事者四人子皆为列侯。
甲戌晦，日有蚀之。
三年冬十一月，罢诸侯御史大夫官。
春正月，皇太后崩。
夏，旱，禁酤酒。
戊戌晦，日有蚀之。
立皇子乘为清河王。
四年春三月，起德阳宫。
御史大夫绾奏禁马高五尺九寸以上，齿未平，不得出关。
夏，蝗。
translation: 
When a prince passed away, the princes and princes were sent as mourning officials to express their condolences, and the senior officials reported their whereabouts, and the court issued mourning edicts.
When the King of Qin passed away, he sent Dr. Guanglu to offer condolences and present him with clothes, clothes and utensils. He also presided over the memorial service and established the king's heir.
When a marquis passed away, he sent a large and medium-sized official to the mourning hall to offer condolences, preside over memorial activities, and establish an heir.
When the above princes died, migrant workers were drafted to dig graves instead of hearses. Grave repairs shall not exceed 300 working days.
The Xiongnu entered Yan territory.
Change the method of dismemberment for death penalty to discard the corpse, and abolish the method of dismemberment.
In March, Linjiang King Liu Rong was guilty of invading Taizong's temple grounds. The lieutenant arrested him and Liu Rong committed suicide.
In April in summer, comets appear in the northwest sky.
The prince Liu Yue was made King of Guangchuan, and Liu Ji was made King of Jiaodong.
In autumn and July, the county governor was renamed the prefect, and the county lieutenant was renamed the captain.
In September, the former Chu Prime Minister Zhang Shang, Taifu Zhao Yiwu, Zhao Xiang Jiande, and Nei Shi Wang Han were killed by their king because they each advised their king not to rebel. Now, the sons of the four of them are ennobled as marquises.
On July 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the winter of the third year in November, it was ordered that there would be no more imperial censors for princes.
In the first month of spring, the Queen Mother passed away.
During the summer drought, selling alcohol is prohibited.
In autumn and September, comets appear in the northwest sky. On September 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The prince Liu Cheng was granted the title of King of Qinghe.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, Deyang Palace was built.
Wei Wan, the imperial censor, reported that tall horses with a height of more than five feet and nine inches and less than ten years old were prohibited from being transported outside the customs.
In summer, there is a locust plague.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
秋，赦徒作阳陵者死罪；欲腐者，许之。
十月戊午，日有蚀之。
五年夏，立皇子舜为常山王。
六月，赦天下，赐民爵一级。
秋八月己酉，未央宫东阙灾。
更名诸侯丞相为相。
九月，诏曰： 法令度量，所以禁暴止邪也。
狱，人之大命，死者不可复生。
吏或不奉法令，以货赂为市，朋党比周，以苛为察，以刻为明，令亡罪者失职，朕甚怜之。
有罪者不伏罪，奸法为暴，甚亡谓也。
诸狱疑，若虽文致于法而于人心不厌者，辄谳之。
六年冬十月，行幸雍，郊五畤。
十二月，改诸官名。
定铸钱伪黄金弃市律。
春三月，雨雪。
夏四月，梁王薨。分梁为五国，立孝王子五人皆为王。
五月，诏曰： 夫吏者，民之师也。
translation: 
In autumn, prisoners who are ordered to serve in hard labor and are willing to build Yangling, and prisoners on death row who are willing to serve palace punishment can all agree.
On October 26, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the summer of the fifth year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Prince Liu Shun was made King of Changshan.
In June, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and he was granted the rank of civil nobility.
On August 22 in autumn, there was a fire in the east palace of Weiyang Palace.
Change the position of the princes and prime ministers to prime minister.
In September, Emperor Jing issued an edict saying: Laws and regulations are used to prohibit violence and evil.
Prison determines a person's life and death, and the dead cannot be resurrected.
Some officials do not enforce laws, take bribes and bend the law, form cliques for personal gain, and work in collusion. I deeply sympathize with the use of threats to force confessions and the harsh judgment of cases, resulting in innocent people suffering unjust injustice.
Those who are guilty will not admit their guilt. If the crime is rampant due to treachery, that is a different matter.
For difficult cases, even if the law can be used to impose a sentence but people are not convinced, it should be reviewed and discussed.
In the winter of October of that year, the emperor came to Yongdi to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors of Heaven and Earth.
In December, the names of all officials were changed.
Announcement of the death penalty for those who mint counterfeit gold currency.
In spring and March, it snows.
In April of Xia, King Liang died, and Liang was divided into five kingdoms. The five sons of King Xiao of Liang were all named kings.
In May, the emperor issued an edict saying: Officials set an example for the people.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
车驾、衣服宜称。
吏六百石以上，皆长吏也。亡度者、或不吏服出入闾里，与民亡异。
令长吏二千石车朱两轓；千石至六百石朱左轓。
车骑从者不称其官衣服、下吏出入闾巷亡吏体者，二千石上其官属，三辅举不如法令者，皆上丞相御史请之。
先是，吏多军功，车、服尚轻，故为设禁，又惟酷吏奉宪失中，乃诏有司减笞法，定棰令。
语在《刑法志》。
六月，匈奴入雁门，至武泉，入上郡，取苑马。吏卒战死者二千人。
秋七月，辛亥晦，日有蚀之。
后元年春正月，诏曰： 狱，重事也。人有智愚，官有上下。
狱疑者谳有司，有司所不能决，移廷尉。
有令谳而后不当，谳者不为失。
欲令治狱者务先宽。
translation: 
Clothing, driving and driving should be commensurate with your position.
Those with positions above six hundred stones are all major officials. Among them, those who do not pay attention to setting an example for the people do not wear official uniforms and go in and out of the alleys, just like ordinary people.
It is now stipulated that the barriers on both sides of the chariot of a long official with two thousand koku are red, and the barrier on the left side of the chariot of a thousand koku to six hundred koku is red.
If the clothes of the cavalry and attendants are not commensurate with their status, or if ordinary officials enter and exit the alleys in a disgraceful manner, those with two thousand stones will be reported to the competent department. The third assistant, the lieutenant in charge of the title, and the left and right internal historians will investigate and report those who do not comply with official regulations, and the prime minister and the censor will propose handling opinions.
It turns out that most of the officials had military merits, and the driving attire was mainly light. Therefore, this ban is issued. He was also worried that the punishment of cruel officials would be unsatisfactory, so he issued a whipping reduction law and fixed whipping order to the judicial department.
Its specific content is contained in the "Criminal Law Chronicles".
In June, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen, went to Wuquan, entered Shangjun, and plundered horses from the horse ranch. More than 2,000 Han soldiers died in the battle.
On July 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Houyuan, an edict was issued saying: Punishment and prison are important matters. People differ in wisdom and stupidity, and officials are divided into superior and inferior officials.
Suspicious cases will first be reviewed by law enforcement agencies at all levels. If a decision cannot be made, they will be handed over to the court.
Even if the conclusion of a review conducted in accordance with the law is inappropriate, the reviewer will not be held at fault.
The intention is to require prison officials to consider leniency first.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
三月，赦天下，赐民爵一级，中二千石、诸侯相爵右庶长。
夏，大酺五日，民得酤酒。
五月，地震。
秋七月乙巳晦，日有蚀之。
条侯周亚夫下狱死。
二年冬十月，省彻侯之国。
春，匈奴入雁门，太守冯敬与战死。
发车骑材官屯。
春，以岁不登，禁内郡食马粟，没入之。
夏四月，诏曰： 雕文刻镂，伤农事者也；锦绣纂组，害女红者也。
农事伤则饥之本也，女红害则寒之原也。
夫饥寒并至，而能亡为非者寡矣。
朕亲耕，后亲桑，以奉宗庙粢盛、祭服，为天下先；不受献，减太官，省徭赋，欲天下务农蚕，素有畜积，以备灾害。
强毋攘弱，众毋暴寡；老耆以寿终，幼孤得遂长。
今，岁或不登，民食颇寡，其咎安在？
translation: 
In the third month, a general amnesty was granted to the people, and the people were rewarded with a first-class title, two thousand stones, and the title of the princes, with the right concubine as the chief.
In summer, the whole country feasts for five days, and people can buy and sell wine.
In May, there was an earthquake.
On July 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
Tiaohou Zhou Yafu was imprisoned and died in prison.
In the winter and October of the second year, an order was issued to revoke the rule that the princes must go to the feudal country.
In the spring, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen, and Feng Jing, the prefect of Yanmen, died in battle.
The imperial court sent chariots and horsemen to guard Yanmen.
In the spring, due to the bad harvest, Neijun was prohibited from feeding the horses with grain, and those who violated the rules would have their horses confiscated.
In April of summer, an edict was issued saying: Carving carvings and engravings consumes manpower and will harm farming; pursuing splendid and beautiful clothes, labor and time consuming will harm the female beauty.
Damage to farming will lead to famine, and disturbance of female red will affect textile production and cause freezing cold.
It is rare for someone to be unable to do anything wrong once they are hungry and cold.
I personally farm, and the Queen personally grows sericulture, so as to meet the needs of the ancestral temple for sacrifices, and set an example for the world; I do not accept donations, reduce redundant personnel, and reduce corvee taxes, in the hope that the world will pay attention to farming and mulberry, and store grain and silk to prepare for disasters.
Don't use the strong to defeat the weak, or use the many to bully the few, so that the elderly can enjoy their old age and the young can grow up smoothly.
This year’s grain harvest has been poor and people have insufficient food. What’s the problem?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
或诈伪为吏，吏以货赂为市，渔夺百姓，侵牟万民。
县丞，长吏也，奸法与盗盗，甚无谓也。
其令二千石各修其职；不事官职、耗乱者，丞相以闻，请其罪。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
五月，诏曰： 人不患其不知，患其为诈也；不患其不勇，患其为暴也；不患其不富，患其亡厌也。
其唯廉士，寡欲易足。
今訾算十以上乃得官，廉士算不必众。
有市籍不得官，无訾又不得官，朕甚愍之。
訾算四得官，亡令廉士久失职，贪夫长利。
秋，大旱。
三年春正月，诏曰： 农，天下之本也。
黄金、珠玉，饥不可食，寒不可衣，以为币用，不识其终始。
间岁或不登，意为末者众，农民寡也。
其令郡国务劝农桑，益种树，可得衣食物。
吏发民若取庸采黄金、珠玉者，坐臧为盗。
二千石听者，与同罪。
皇太子冠，赐民为父后者爵一级。
translation: 
Some deceitful officials engage in open corruption and bribery, preying on the common people and embezzling their wealth and wealth.
The county magistrate, who is the main local official, knows the law and breaks the law and colludes with thieves. This is not allowed.
The officials are now ordered to perform their duties. Anyone who neglects his duties or derelicts in his duties and harms the people shall be reported to the Prime Minister and punished.
I hereby announce it to the world so that my intentions are known to all.
In May, an edict was issued saying: Don't worry about someone being unwise, what you need to worry about is that he is cheating; don't worry about someone not being brave, what you need to worry about is that he is violent and violent; don't worry about someone not being rich, what you need to worry about is that he is unjust and greedy.
Only honest people are indifferent and content, and their desires are easily satisfied.
It was originally stipulated that a person with assets of 100,000 yuan could be an official, but this should not be required for honest people.
According to the original regulations, businessmen cannot become officials if they have money, and honest people cannot become officials if they have no money. This leads to the fact that honest people have no way to advance, which I feel very sorry for.
It is now decreed that those with assets of forty thousand yuan can become officials, so as not to prevent honest people from being able to hold their positions and allow greedy men to occupy their positions for a long time.
Autumn, severe drought.
In the first month of spring in the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: Agriculture is the foundation of the world.
Gold, pearls and jade cannot be eaten when hungry or clothed when cold. They can be used with currency to communicate whether they are available or not, but they cannot be identified and used.
Sometimes the harvest is not good this year. I think it is because there are too many people engaged in business and too few people engaged in agriculture.
Now the special order of the county must encourage farmers to engage in mulberry farming and plant more trees, so that they can have enough food and clothing.
If an official uses his property to hire people to mine gold, pearls and jade, he will be punished as stolen goods.
Anyone who fails to investigate this matter will be guilty of the same crime.
The crown prince performs a crowning ceremony and rewards the common people who are his father's heirs with a title of one rank.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
甲子，帝崩于未央宫。
遗诏赐诸侯王、列侯马二驷，吏二千石黄金二斤，吏民户百钱。
出宫人归其家，复终身。
二月癸酉，葬阳陵。
赞曰：孔子称 斯民，三代之所以直道而行也 ，信哉！
周、秦之敝，罔密文峻，而奸轨不胜。
汉兴，扫除烦苛，与民休息。
至于孝文，加之以恭俭，孝景遵业，五六十载之间，至于移风易俗，黎民醇厚。
周云成、康，汉言文、景，美矣！
translation: 
On the 27th of the first lunar month, Emperor Jing died in Weiyang Palace.
The imperial edict granted eight horses to each prince and prince. An official's two thousand shi means two catties of gold, and other officials and citizens each have a hundred coins.
The palace servants were dismissed and returned to their homes, exempted from lifelong corvee service.
On February 6, he was buried in Yangling.
Ban Gu commented: Confucius said that people today can also walk on the straight path like they did in the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. This is quite correct.
The shortcomings of Zhou and Qin were that the legal network was tight and the laws were strict, but there were still countless people who broke the law and committed crimes.
The rise of the Han Dynasty eliminated the burdens and allowed the people to recuperate and recuperate.
As for Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, he was respectful and frugal, and Emperor Jing followed his previous footsteps. Within fifty or sixty years, he was able to change customs and make the people simple.
The Zhou Dynasty praised Chengkang, and the Han Dynasty praised Wenjing. What a beautiful and prosperous age!


