Chunk 0: 
original: 
敬帝敬皇帝，讳方智，字慧相，小字法真，世祖第九子也。
太清三年，封兴梁侯。
承圣元年，封晋安王，邑二千户。
二年，出为平南将军、江州刺史。
三年十一月，江陵陷，太尉扬州刺史王僧辩、司空南徐州刺史陈霸先定议，以帝为太宰、承制，奉迎还京师。
四年二月癸丑，至自寻阳，入居朝堂。
以太尉王僧辩为中书监、录尚书、骠骑将军、都督中外诸军事。加司空陈霸先班剑三十人。以豫州刺史侯瑱为江州刺史，仪同三司、湘州刺史萧循为太尉，仪同三司、广州刺史萧勃为司徒，镇东将军张彪为郢州刺史。
三月，齐遣其上党王高涣送贞阳侯萧渊明来主梁嗣，至东关，遣吴兴太守裴之横与战，败绩，之横死。
太尉王僧辩率众出屯姑孰。
四月，司徒陆法和以郢州附于齐，遣江州刺史侯瑱讨之。
七月辛丑，王僧辩纳贞阳侯萧渊明，自采石济江。
甲辰，入于京师，以帝为皇太子。
九月甲辰，司空陈霸先举义，袭杀王僧辩，黜萧渊明。
丙午，帝即皇帝位。
绍泰元年冬十月己巳，诏曰： 王室不造，婴罹祸衅，西都失守，朝廷沦覆，先帝梓宫，播越非所，王基倾弛，率土罔戴。
朕以荒幼，仍属艰难，泣血枕戈，志复仇逆。
大耻未雪，夙宵鲠愤。
群公卿尹，勉以大义，越登寡暗，嗣奉洪业。
顾惟夙心，念不至此。
庶仰凭先灵，傍资将相，克清元恶，谢冤陵寝。
今坠命载新，宗祊更祀，庆流亿兆，岂予一人。
可改承圣四年为绍泰元年，大赦天下，内外文武赐位一等。
以贞阳侯渊明为司徒，封建安郡公，食邑三千户。
translation: 
The emperor's name is Fang Zhi, courtesy name is Huixiang, and his baby name is Fazhen. He is the ninth son of Shizu.
In the third year of Taiqing's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xingliang.
In the first year of Chengsheng's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and was granted a residence of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, he served as General Pingnan and Governor of Jiangzhou.
In November of the third year of Chengsheng, Jiangling fell. Taiwei Wang Sengbian, the governor of Yangzhou, and Chen Baxian, the governor of Xuzhou in Sikongnan, agreed to make Emperor Jing the Grand Prime Minister. In accordance with the emperor's will, they would welcome Emperor Jing back to the capital.
On February 2, the fourth year of Chengsheng's reign, he entered the imperial court from Xunyang.
Wang Sengbian, the Taiwei, was appointed as the Superintendent of Zhongshu, Lu Shangshu, General of Hussars, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces. Thirty people were appointed as Sikong Chen Baxian. Wang Zhen, the governor of Yuzhou, was appointed the governor of Jiangzhou, and the three divisions were together with him. Xiao Xun, the governor of Xiangzhou, was the Taiwei, and the three divisions were with Yitong.
In March, Qi sent Gao Huan, king of Shangdang, to send Xiao Yuanming, Marquis of Zhenyang, to be Liang's successor. When they arrived at Dongguan, they sent Pei Zhiheng, the prefect of Wuxing, to fight with him. Pei Zhiheng was defeated and died.
Taiwei Wang Sengbian led his army and was stationed in Gushu.
In April, Situ Lufa and Yi Yingzhou surrendered to Qi, and sent Jiangzhou governor Hou Wangzhen to attack him.
On July 23, Wang Sengbian took in Xiao Yuanming, the Marquis of Zhenyang, and crossed the river from Caishi.
On the 26th, he arrived in the capital and regarded Emperor Jing as the crown prince.
On September 27, Sikong Chen Baxian raised his troops, attacked and killed Wang Sengbian, and deposed Xiao Yuanming.
On the 29th, Emperor Jing officially ascended the throne.
On the 22nd day of the tenth month in the first year of Shaotai, an edict was issued: The royal family has lost its place, suffered disasters, the Western capital has been lost, the imperial court has been overthrown, the former emperor's palace has been displaced, the royal base has been overthrown, and there is no support within the borders of the country.
I was young and desolate, and when the fate of the country was in dire straits, I cried blood and pillowed on the enemy, determined to avenge my humiliation.
The great shame has not yet been revealed, and sooner or later you will be angry.
All officials and ministers should encourage each other with great righteousness, so that I can transcend ignorance and inherit the great cause.
Gu Wei's long-cherished intention was not to think about it.
Rely on the spirits of the ancestors, rely on the generals and prime ministers, defeat the evildoers, and express gratitude for the injustice.
Now that I have lost my life and put on a new life, my ancestors will be worshiped again to benefit the people. How can I be the only one!
The fourth year of Chengsheng was changed to the first year of Shaotai. The sentences of convicted criminals across the country were reduced or exempted, and the ministers of civil and military affairs at home and abroad granted them first-class titles.
He appointed Marquis Yuanming of Zhenyang as Situ, and was granted the title of Duke of Jian'an County, with a settlement of 3,000 households.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
壬子，以司空陈霸先为尚书令、都督中外诸军事、车骑将军、扬、南徐二州刺史司空如故。
震州刺史杜龛举兵，攻信武将军陈蒨于长城，义兴太守韦载据郡以应之。
癸丑，进太尉萧循为太保，新除司徒建安公渊明为太傅，司徒萧勃为太尉。
以镇南将军王琳为车骑将军、开府仪同三司。
戊午，尊所生夏贵妃为皇太后。立妃王氏为皇后。
镇东将军、扬州刺史张彪进号征东大将军。
镇北将军、谯秦二州刺史徐嗣徽进号征北大将军。
征南将军、南豫州刺史任约进号征南大将军。
辛未，诏司空陈霸先东讨韦载。
丙子，任约、徐嗣徽举兵反，乘京师无备，窃据石头。
丁丑，韦载降，义兴平。
遣晋陵太守周文育率军援长城。
十一月庚辰，齐安州刺史翟子崇、楚州刺史刘仕荣、淮州刺史柳达摩率众赴任约，入于石头。
庚寅，司空陈霸先旋于京师。
十二月庚戌，徐嗣徽、任约又相率至采石，迎齐援。
丙辰，遣猛烈将军侯安都水军于江宁邀之，贼众大溃，嗣徽、约等奔于江西。
庚申，翟子崇等请降，并放还北。
太平元年春正月戊寅，大赦天下，其与任约、徐嗣徽协契同谋，一无所问。
追赠简文皇帝诸子。
以故永安侯确子后袭封邵陵王，奉携王后。
癸未，镇东将军、震州刺史杜龛降，诏赐死，曲赦吴兴郡。
己亥，以太保、宜豊侯萧循袭封鄱阳王。
东扬州刺史张彪围临海太守王怀振于剡岩。
二月庚戌，遣周文育、陈茜袭会稽，讨彪。
癸丑，彪长史谢岐、司马沈泰、军主吴宝真等举城降，彪败走。
以中卫将军临川王大款即本号开府仪同三司，中护军桂阳王大成为护军将军。
丙辰，若耶村人斩张彪，传首京师，曲赦东扬州。
己未，罢震州，还复吴兴郡。癸亥，贼徐嗣徽、任约袭采石戍，执戍主明州刺史张怀钧，入于齐。
甲子，以东土经杜龛、张彪抄暴，遣大使巡省。
三月丙子，罢东扬州，还复会稽郡。
壬午，班下远近并杂用古今钱。
translation: 
On the fifth day, he appointed Sikong Chen Baxian as Shangshu Ling, governor of all Chinese and foreign military affairs, general of chariots and cavalry, and governor of Yang and Nanxu prefectures. Sikong remained the same.
Du Gong, the governor of Zhenzhou, raised troops to attack General Xinwu at the Great Wall, and Wei Zai, the prefect of Yixing, responded to the attack.
On the 6th, Xiao Xun, the imperial eunuch, was appointed as the eunuch, the newly appointed Situ Jian'an Gong Yuanming was appointed as the eunuch, and Situ Xiaobo was appointed as the eunuch.
Wang Lin, the general of Zhennan, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
On the 11th, the respected mother Xia Guifei became the empress dowager and the princess was appointed empress.
General Zhendong and Yangzhou Governor Zhang Biaojin was named General Zhengdong.
General Zhenbei, the governor of Qiao and Qin states, Xu Sihui Jin was named General Zhengbei.
General Zhengnan, Governor of Southern Yuzhou, Ren Yuejin was named General Zhengnan.
On the 24th, the commander-in-chief Chen Ba was ordered to go eastward to attack Wei Zai.
On the 29th, Ren Yue and Xu Sihui rebelled. Taking advantage of the undefended capital, they secretly occupied Stone City.
On the 30th, Wei Zai surrendered and Yixing settled down.
Zhou Wenyu, the governor of Jinling, was sent to lead his army to reinforce the Great Wall.
On November 3, Zhai Zichong, the governor of Qi'an Prefecture, Liu Shirong, the governor of Chuzhou, and Liu Damo, the governor of Huaizhou, led their troops to defect to Ren Yue and arrived in Shitou.
On the 13th, Sikong Chen Baxian returned to the capital.
On December 4, Xu Sihui and Ren Yue arrived at Caishi successively to welcome Qi's reinforcements.
On the 10th, the fierce general Hou Andu's navy was sent to intercept him halfway in Jiangning. The rebel army was defeated. Xu Sihui, Ren Yue and others were defeated and fled to Jiangxi.
On the 14th, Zhai Zichong and others requested surrender and were allowed to return to the north.
On the second day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taiping, all sentenced criminals across the country were commuted or exempted from prison sentences, and those who conspired with Ren Yue and Xu Sihui would not be investigated.
Additional official positions were given to the sons of Emperor Jianwen.
The descendants of the late Yong'an Marquis Que were granted the title of King Shaoling and served the queen.
On the 7th, Du Gong, the general of Zhendong and the governor of Zhenzhou, surrendered. He was sentenced to death and granted amnesty to Wuxing County.
On the 23rd, Taibao and Yifenghou Xiao Xun attacked and granted the title of King of Poyang.
Zhang Biao, the governor of Dongyangzhou, surrounded Wang Huaizhen, the prefect of Linhai, at Yanyan.
On February 5, Zhou Wenyu and Chen were sent to attack Kuaiji and attack Zhang Biao.
On the 8th, Zhang Biao's chief historian Xie Qi, Sima Shentai, monarch Wu Baozhen and others all surrendered, and Zhang Biao was defeated and fled.
The general of the Central Guard, Linchuan Wang Dafian, was named Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and the Central Guards Guiyang Wang Dafeng became the general of the Guards.
On the 11th, the people of Ruoye village killed Zhang Biao, sent his head to the capital, and granted amnesty to Dongyangzhou.
On the 14th, Zhenzhou was abolished and was still called Wuxing County. On the 18th, the thieves Xu Sihui and Ren Yue attacked the Caishi garrison, arrested the garrison leader and Mingzhou governor Zhang Huaijun, and arrived in Qi.
On the 19th, because the eastern part of the country was plundered and bullied by Du Gong and Zhang Biao, an ambassador was sent to inspect it.
On March 1, Dongyangzhou was abolished and was still called Kuaiji County.
On the seventh day, an order was issued to all countries and regions to use ancient and modern coins.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
戊戌，齐遣大将萧轨出栅口，向梁山，司空陈霸先、军主黄逆击，大破之。
轨退保芜湖。
遣周文育、侯安都众军，据梁山拒之。
夏四月丁巳，司空陈霸先表诣梁山抚巡将帅。
壬申，侯安都轻兵袭齐行台司马恭于历阳，大破之，俘获万计。
五月癸未，太傅建安公渊明薨。
庚寅，齐军水步入丹阳县。
丙申，至秣陵故冶。
敕周文育还顿方丘，徐度顿马牧，杜棱顿大桁。
癸卯，齐军进据儿塘，舆驾出顿赵建故篱门，内外纂严。
六月甲辰，齐潜军至蒋山龙尾，斜趋莫府山北，至玄武庙西北。
乙卯，司空陈霸先授众军节度，与齐军交战，大破之，斩齐北兗州刺史杜方庆及徐嗣徽弟嗣宗，生擒徐嗣产、萧轨、东方老、王敬宝、李希光、裴英起、刘归义等，皆诛之。
戊午，大赦天下，军士身殒战场，悉遣敛祭，其无家属，即为瘗埋。
辛酉，解严。
秋七月丙子，车骑将军、司空陈霸先进位司徒，加中书监，余如故。
丁亥，以开府仪同三司侯瑱为司空。
八月己酉，太保鄱阳王循薨。
九月壬寅，改元大赦，孝悌力田赐爵一级，殊才异行所在奏闻，饥难流移勒归本土。
进新除司徒陈霸先为丞相、录尚书事、镇卫大将军、扬州牧，封义兴郡公。
中权将军王冲即本号开府仪同三司。
吏部尚书王通为尚书右仆射。
丁巳，以郢州刺史徐度为领军将军。
冬十一月乙卯，起云龙、神虎门。
十二月壬申，进太尉、镇南将军萧勃为太保、骠骑将军。
以新除左卫将军欧阳頠为安南将军、衡州刺史。
壬午，平南将军刘法瑜进号安南将军。
甲午，以前寿昌令刘睿为汝阴王，前镇西法曹、行参军萧鸑为巴陵王，奉宋、齐二代后。
二年春正月壬寅，诏曰： 夫子降灵体哲，经仁纬义，允光素王，载阐玄功，仰之者弥高，诲之者不倦。
translation: 
On the 23rd, Qi sent general Xiao Gui to march from Zhakou towards Liangshan. Sikong Chen Baxian's army led Huang to counterattack and defeated Xiao Gui's army.
Xiao Gui was defeated and retreated to Wuhu.
The tribes of Zhou Wenyu and Hou Andu were sent to rely on Liangshan to resist.
On April 13th in the summer, Sikong Chen Ba first reported to the emperor that he went to Liangshan to appease the general.
On the 28th, Hou Andu led his rapid troops to attack Sima Gong of Qixingtai in Liyang, defeating the enemy and capturing tens of thousands of people.
On May 9th, Grand Tutor Jian'an Gong Yuanming passed away.
On the 16th, the Qi army's naval infantry entered Danyang County.
On the 22nd, we arrived at Moling Jiuzhi.
He ordered Zhou Wenyu to garrison Fangqiu, Xu Du to garrison Ma Mu, and Du Ling to garrison Dacheng.
On the 29th, the Qi army marched into Ertang, and Yu drove out of Dunzhao to build the old fence gate, imposing strict martial law inside and outside.
On June 1, Qi secretly sent troops to Longwei in Jiangshan Mountain, ran diagonally to the north of Mofu Mountain, and arrived in the northwest of Xuanwu Lake.
On the 12th, Sikong Chen Baxian adjusted and deployed all the troops, fought with the Qi army, defeated the Qi army, killed Du Fangqing, Xu Sihui, the governor of Yanzhou in northern Qi, and their younger brother Xu Sizong, captured Xu Siyan, Xiao Gui, Dongfang Lao, Wang Jingbao, Li Xiguang, Pei Yingqi, Liu Guiyi and others alive and killed them.
On the 15th, all the convicted criminals across the country were exempted from punishment or their sentences were reduced, and soldiers who died on the battlefield were buried and sacrificed. If they had no family members, they were buried on their behalf.
On the 18th, martial law was lifted.
On the third day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, General Chaoqiu and Sikong Chenba took the position of Situ first, and he was appointed as the secretary supervisor, while the rest remained the same.
On the 14th, Ren Kaifu Yi and the Third Sihou Wangzhen were appointed Sikong.
On August 7, Taibao Poyang Wang Xun passed away.
On September 1st, the reign name was changed, and the sentenced criminals were exempted or reduced their sentences. Those who were filial to their parents, respected their brothers, and worked hard in farming were given first-class titles. Those with outstanding talents and outstanding behaviors were reported to the local government. Those who suffered from hunger or disaster and fled or migrated were forced to return to their place of origin.
Jinxin eliminated Situ Chen Baxian and became prime minister, Lu Shangshushi, general of Zhenwei, and Yangzhou shepherd, and was granted the title of Duke of Yixing County.
Wang Chong, the general of Zhongquan, is the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
Wang Tong, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was the right servant of the Minister.
On the 16th, Xu Du, the governor of Yingzhou, was appointed as the leading general.
On November 15th in winter, Yunlong and Shenhu gates were built.
On December 2, Jin Taiwei and Zhennan General Xiao Bo were appointed as Taibao and Hussar General.
He appointed Ouyang Weiye, general of the left guard, as general of Annan and governor of Hengzhou.
On the 12th, General Pingnan Liu Fayu was promoted to General Annan.
On the 24th, Liu Rui, the former Shouchang magistrate, was appointed as the king of Ruyin, and Xiao, who had previously suppressed Facao in the west and joined the army in the army, was the king of Baling. He served the second generation of Song and Qi.
On the second day of the first lunar month of the second year of Taiping, an edict was issued: The master has sent down auspicious spiritual bodies, benevolent and righteous, and allowed King Guangsu to explain the mysterious skills. Those who admire him will become taller, and those who teach him will not tire of it.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
立忠立孝，德被蒸民，制礼作乐，道冠群后。
虽泰山颓峻，一篑不遗，而泗水余澜，千载犹在。
自皇图屯阻，祀荐不修，奉圣之门，胤嗣歼灭，敬神之寝，簠簋寂寥。
永言声烈，实兼钦怆。
外可搜举鲁国之族，以为奉圣后；并缮庙堂，供备祀典，四时荐秩，一皆遵旧。
是日，又诏 诸州各置中正，依旧访举。
不得辄承单状序官，皆须中正押上，然后量授。
详依品制，务使精实。
其荆、雍、青、兗虽暂为隔阂，衣冠多寓淮海，犹宜不废司存。
会计罢州，尚为大郡，人士殷旷，可别置邑居。
至如分割郡县，新号州牧，并系本邑，不劳兼置。
其选中正，每求耆德，该悉以他官领之。
以车骑将军、开府仪同三司王琳为司空、骠骑大将军。
分寻阳、太原、齐昌、高唐、新蔡五郡，置西江州，即于寻阳仍充州镇。
又诏 宗室在朝开国承家者，今犹称世子，可悉听袭本爵。
以尚书右仆射王通为尚书左仆射。
丁巳，镇西将军、益州刺史长沙王韶进号征南将军。
二月庚午，领军将军徐度入东关。
太保、广州刺史萧勃举兵反，遣伪帅欧阳頠、傅泰、勃从子孜为前军，南江州刺史余孝顷以兵会之。
诏平西将军周文育、平南将军侯安都等率众军南讨。
戊子，徐度至合肥，烧齐船三千艘。
癸巳，周文育军于巴山生获欧阳頠。
三月庚子，文育前军丁法洪于蹠口生俘傅泰。萧孜、余孝顷军退走。
甲辰，以新除司空王琳为湘、郢二州刺史。
甲寅，德州刺史陈法武、前衡州刺史谭世远于始兴攻杀萧勃。
夏四月癸酉，曲赦江、广、衡三州；并督内为贼所拘逼者，并皆不问。
己卯，铸四柱钱，一准二十。
齐遣使请和。
壬辰，改四柱钱一准十。
丙申，复闭细钱。
translation: 
Establish loyalty and filial piety, be virtuous by the people, make rituals and make music, and be the best among all queens.
Although Mount Tai is steep and steep, the waves of Surabaya remain for thousands of years.
Since the emperor's encirclement has been blocked, the sacrifices have not been recommended. At the gate of worship, Yinzhi has been annihilated. In the place where gods are worshiped, the sacrificial vessels are lonely.
The words are loud and clear, but the truth is full of sadness.
Outside, the clans of the State of Lu can be searched for to enshrine the queen; temples can be repaired, temples can be prepared for sacrificial rituals, and ranks can be recommended in four seasons, all in compliance with the old system.
On this day, another edict was issued: Each state set up Zhongzheng respectively, and continued to visit and recommend.
Don't accept the order at any time. All must be upright and then be awarded after consideration.
Follow the official system in detail to make sure it is precise.
Although Jing, Yong, Qing, and Yan are temporarily isolated and inaccessible, many people live in Huaihai, so Sicun should not be abolished.
If the accountant cancels the state, it will still be a large county. People in Yin Kuang can find another town to live in.
As for the division of counties and counties, the new names are state and animal husbandry, and they are combined with the original town, so that they can be established without any effort.
When choosing the right one, I should ask the senior officials to learn more about them and lead them through other officials.
Wang Lin, the General of Chariots and Cavalry and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong, was appointed as the General of Sikong and Cavalry.
It is divided into five counties: Xunyang, Taiyuan, Qichang, Gaotang and Xincai, and Xijiang Prefecture is established. Even in Xunyang, it is still Chongzhou Town.
He also issued an edict: All the members of the ruling clan who established the country and inherited the family business are still called princes, and they should all obey their title.
Wang Tong was appointed as Shangshu's right servant and served as Shangshu's left servant.
On the 17th, General Zhenxi and the governor of Yizhou, Changsha Wang Shaojin, led the expedition to the south.
On February 1, the leading general Xu Du entered Dongguan.
Xiao Bo, the Taibao and Guangzhou governor, rebelled and sent puppet commanders Ouyang Weiye, Fu Tai, and Xiao Bo's nephew Xiao Zi as the front army. Yu Xiaoqing, the governor of Nanjiang Prefecture, led his troops to join them.
He ordered Pingxi General Zhou Wenyu and Pingnan General Hou Andu to lead their armies to the south to attack.
On the 19th, Xu Du arrived at Hefei and burned all 3,000 ships.
On the 24th, Zhou Wenyu captured Ouyang Weiye alive in Bashan.
On March 1, Zhou Wenyu's former army Ding Fahong captured Fu Tai alive at his mouth, while Xiao Zi and Yu Xiaoqing were defeated and fled.
In May, Wang Lin, the newly removed Sikong, was appointed as the governor of Hunan and Yingzhou.
On the 15th, Chen Fawu, the governor of Dezhou, and Tan Shiyuan, the former governor of Hengzhou, attacked and killed Xiao Bo in Shixing.
On April 5, Xia, the three prefectures of Jiang, Guang, and Heng were granted amnesty, and those arrested and persecuted by thieves within the governor's territory would not be interrogated.
On the 11th day, four pillars of money were minted, one was accurate to twenty.
Qi sent envoys to ask for peace.
On the 24th, change the four-column coin to be accurate to ten.
On the 28th, fine money was abolished.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
萧勃故主帅前直阁兰敱袭杀谭世远，敱仍为亡命夏侯明彻所杀。
勃故记室李宝藏奉怀安侯萧任据广州作乱。
戊戌，侯安都进军，余孝顷弃军走，萧孜请降，豫章平。
五月乙巳，平西将军周文育进号镇南将军，侯安都进号镇北将军，并以本号开府仪同三司。
丙午，以镇军将军徐度为南豫州刺史。
戊辰，余孝顷遣使诣丞相府乞降。
秋八月甲午，加丞相陈霸先黄钺，领太傅，剑履上殿，入朝不趋，赞拜不名，给羽葆、鼓吹。
九月辛丑，崇丞相为相国，总百揆，封十郡为陈公，备九锡之礼，加玺绂远游冠，位在王公上。加相国绿綟绶。
置陈国百司。
冬十月戊辰，进陈公爵为王，增封十郡，并前为二十郡。
命陈王冕十有二旒，建天子旌旂，出警入跸，乘金根车，驾六马，备五时副车，置旄头云罕，乐舞八佾，设钟鋋宫县。
王后王子女爵命之典，一依旧仪。
辛未，诏曰：
五运更始，三正迭代，司牧黎庶，是属圣贤，用能经纬乾坤，弥纶区宇，大庇黔首，阐扬洪烈。
革晦以明，积代同轨，百王踵武，咸由此则。
梁德湮微，祸难荐发：太清云始，用困长蛇；承圣之年，又罹封豕；爰至天成，重窃神器。
三光亟改，七庙乏祀，含生已泯，鼎命斯坠，我皇之祚，眇若缀旒，静惟《屯》、《剥》，夕惕载怀。
相国陈王，有纵自天，降神惟岳，天地合德，晷曜齐明。
拯社稷之横流，提亿兆之涂炭。
东诛叛逆，北歼獯丑，威加四海，仁渐万国。
复张崩乐，重纪绝礼，儒馆聿修，戎亭虚候。
虽大功在舜，盛绩维禹，巍巍荡荡，无得而称。
translation: 
Xiao Bo's former coach Zhi Lan Qigao attacked and killed Tan Shiyuan, but Lan Qigao was killed by Xiahou Mingche who was on the run.
Li Baobao, who was in Xiao Bo's old record room, followed Xiao Ren, the Marquis of Huai'an, and took control of Guangzhou to rebel.
On the 30th, Hou Andu marched, Yu Xiaoqing abandoned the army and fled, and Xiao Bo asked for surrender. Yuzhang was pacified.
On May 7, Pingxi General Zhou Wenjin was promoted to General Zhennan, and Hou Andu was promoted to General Zhenbei, and they shared the title of Kaifu Yi with the three divisions.
On the 8th, he appointed Xu Du, the general of the town army, as the governor of Southern Yuzhou.
On the 30th, Yu Xiaoqing sent an envoy to the Prime Minister's Mansion to beg for surrender.
On the twenty-ninth day of the eighth month in autumn, Prime Minister Chen Baxian, Huang Yue, and the eunuch were appointed as supervisors. He went up to the palace with a sword and shoes. He entered the court without any sign of praise and worship, but provided Yu Bao and advocated for him.
On September 5th, he respected the prime minister as the prime minister and took charge of the country's affairs. He named the ten counties as Chen Gong, prepared the gift of nine tins, added the seal and fur to travel far away, ranked him above the princes, and added the prime minister's green and ruthless ribbon.
Set up Chen Guobai Division.
On the third day of the tenth month in winter, Duke Chen of Jin became the king and granted ten additional counties. In addition to the previous ten counties, the number became twenty counties.
Chen Gongmian was ordered to serve as the twelve disciples, establish the Prince Banner, clear the road when entering and exiting, and prohibit others from passing. He rode a golden root chariot with six horses, equipped with a five-hour auxiliary chariot.
The orders of queens, princes and duchess are all determined by old rituals.
On the sixth day, an edict was issued:
The five fortunes are renewed and the three are iterated. Si Mu Li Shu is a sage. He can use the latitude and longitude of the world to make up the world. He protects the head of Guizhou and carries forward the great power.
The revolution is obscured by Yin, and generations are on the same track. Hundreds of kings are fighting, and Xian follows this.
Liang De was in a state of decline, and misfortunes were inevitable: at the beginning of the Qing Dynasty, he trapped a long snake; in the year of becoming a saint, he suffered from a sealing pig; when his love reached Tiancheng, he stole the artifact again and again.
The three lights are in urgent need of change, the seven temples are lacking sacrifices, Hansheng has been lost, and the fate of the tripod is falling. Our emperor's Zuo is like a dazzle, and he is still in "Tun" and "Peel", and he is alert in the evening.
King Chen of the Xiangguo State has a vertical movement from the sky, and the descending god is the mountain. The heaven and the earth are in harmony, and the sundial is bright.
Save the country from the current, and save billions of trillions from the ruins.
He killed the rebels in the east, moved the ghosts of Maoyou in the north, spread his power to all the seas, and spread his benevolence to all nations.
The music is restored and music is restored, discipline and etiquette are emphasized, Confucianism halls are established, and military pavilions are waiting in vain.
Although the great achievements were attributed to Shun, and the great achievements were made by Wei Yu, they were towering and swaying, but they were not praised for their merits.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
来献白环，岂直皇虞之世；入贡素雉，非止隆周之日。
故效珍川陆，表瑞烟云，玉露醴泉，旦夕凝涌，嘉禾瑞草，孳植郊甸，道昭于悠代，勋格于皇穹。
明明上天，光华日月，革故著于玄象，代德彰于谶图，狱讼有违，讴歌爰适，天之历数，实有攸在。
朕虽庸藐，暗于古昔，永稽崇替，为日已久，敢忘列代之遗典，人祇之至愿乎！
今便逊位别宫，敬禅于陈，一依唐虞、宋齐故事。
陈王践阼，奉帝为江阴王，薨于外邸，时年十六，追谥敬皇帝。
史臣曰：梁季横溃，丧乱屡臻，当此之时，天历去矣，敬皇高让，将同释负焉。
史臣侍中、郑国公魏征曰： 高祖固天攸纵，聪明稽古，道亚生知，学为博物，允文允武，多艺多才。
爰自诸生，有不羁之度，属昏凶肆虐，天伦及祸，收合义旅，将雪家冤。
曰纣可伐，不其而会，龙跃樊、汉，电击湘、郢，剪离德如振槁，取独夫如拾遗。
其雄才大略，固无得而称矣。
既悬白旗之首，方应皇天之眷，布德施惠，悦近来远，开荡荡之王道，革靡靡之商俗，大修文教，盛饰礼容，鼓扇玄风，阐扬儒业，介胄仁义，折冲樽俎，声振寰宇，泽流遐裔，干戈载戢，凡数十年。
济济焉，洋洋焉，魏、晋已来，未有若斯之盛。
然不能息末敦本，斫雕为朴，慕名好事，崇尚浮华，抑扬孔、墨，流连释、老。
或经夜不寝，或终日不食，非弘道以利物，惟饰智以惊愚。
且心未遗荣，虚厕苍头之伍；高谈脱屣，终恋黄屋之尊。
夫人之大欲，在乎饮食男女，至于轩冕殿堂，非有切身之急。
高祖屏除嗜欲，眷恋轩冕，得其所难而滞于所易，可谓神有所不达，智有所不通矣。
逮夫精华稍竭，凤德已衰，惑于听受，权在奸佞，储后百辟，莫得尽言。
险躁之心，暮年愈甚。
translation: 
Coming to offer a white ring is not the beginning of the reign of Emperor Yu; offering tribute of plain pheasants is not the end of the prosperous Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the effect is to treasure Sichuan and land, with auspicious smoke and clouds on the surface, and jade dew and sweet springs, which condense day and night. The golden harvest and auspicious grasses grow in the suburbs.
Mingming goes to heaven, the sun and the moon shine brightly, the revolution is written in Xuanxiang, the virtues of generations are revealed in prophecies, the lawsuits in prison are against the rules, the songs of love are appropriate, the calendar of heaven is really there.
Although I am mediocre and contemptuous, I have always respected the past, and I have been there for a long time. I dare not forget the legacy of the past generations. This is the only wish of people!
Now I will abdicate and leave the palace to pay homage to Chen, following the stories of Tang, Yu, Song and Qi.
King Chen Jianzuo was appointed King of Jiangyin by the emperor and passed away in his residence at the age of sixteen. He was posthumously named Emperor Jing.
Shi Chen said: The Liang Dynasty collapsed rapidly, and chaos and chaos came frequently. At this time, the days were running out, and the emperor gave way, and at the same time he was relieved of his heavy burden.
Wei Zheng, the Minister of History and the Duke of Zheng, said: Of course, Wendan was born from heaven. He is smart and knows the past. His morality is second only to those who are born with knowledge. His knowledge is to know all things, he is capable of literature and military, and he is versatile.
Born in all lives, he has a bohemian demeanor, and when it is dark and dangerous, bandits are raging, and his family is in trouble, he gathers rebels to clear up the family feud.
People say that Laos can be conquered, but now they meet unexpectedly. The dragon jumps on the alum and the hope, and the electric shock is on the marriage and the Ying. Cutting off the deviant and disloyal people is like shaking down the withered grass and trees, and capturing the single-minded thieves is like picking up supplies.
Of course, there is nothing comparable to his talent and strategy.
The head of the white flag has been hoisted, and in response to the favor of the emperor, he spreads his kindness widely, makes people near him happy and makes people far away come back, opens up a broad royal road, gets rid of the timid and upright customs, and overhauls the literature Teach, decorate with etiquette, fan mystical customs, promote the cause of Confucianism, benevolent and righteous, be able to defeat the opponent at the alliance table, become famous throughout the world, benevolence spread to remote places, and wars will cease. Decades in total.
There are many talents and wonderful political achievements. Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties, there has not been such a prosperous era.
However, Emperor Gaozu could not abandon the foundation of commercialism and promote agriculture. He replaced ornaments with simplicity, envied reputation and loved trouble, advocated glitz, despised Confucius and Mo, and lingered on Shi and Lao.
Sometimes he stays up all night, and sometimes he doesn't eat all day long. This does not promote morality to benefit all things, but only displays wisdom to frighten the ignorant.
Moreover, he has not forgotten the honor in his heart, but he just falsely places himself in the ranks of the servants; he takes off his shoes when talking loudly, but after all, he is attached to the dignity of the yellow room.
People's greatest desire is to eat, drink, and have sex. As for fancy cars, hats, and palaces, they have no immediate urgency.
Emperor Gaozu gave up his hobbies and desires, but he was attached to luxury cars and imperial hats. He achieved things that were difficult for him to achieve but stayed at things that were easy for him. It can be said that his spirit was not enlightened and his wisdom was not smooth.
When his spiritual talent gradually dried up, his moral prestige declined, he was deceived by what he heard and felt, and his power fell into the hands of treacherous villains.
Gaozu's impatience and restless mood became even worse in his later years.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
见利而动，愎谏违卜，开门揖盗，弃好即仇，衅起萧墙，祸成戎羯，身殒非命，灾被亿兆，衣冠敝锋镝之下，老幼粉戎马之足。
瞻彼《黍离》，痛深周庙；永言《麦秀》，悲甚殷墟。
自古以安为危，既成而败，颠覆之速，书契所未闻也。
《易》曰： 天之所助者信，人之所助者顺。
高祖之遇斯屯剥，不得其死，盖动而之险，不由信顺，失天人之所助，其能免于此乎！
太宗聪睿过人，神彩秀发，多闻博达，富赡词藻。
然文艳用寡，华而不实，体穷淫丽，义罕疏通，哀思之音，遂移风俗，以此而贞万国，异乎周诵、汉庄矣。
我生不辰，载离多难，桀逆构扇，巨猾滔天，始自牖里之拘，终类望夷之祸。
悠悠苍天，其可问哉！
昔国步初屯，兵缠魏阙，群后释位，投袂勤王。
元帝以盘石之宗，受分陕之任，属君亲之难，居连率之长，不能抚剑尝胆，枕戈泣血，躬先士卒，致命前驱；遂乃拥众逡巡，内怀觖望，坐观时变，以为身幸。
不急莽、卓之诛，先行昆弟之戮。
又沉猜忌酷，多行无礼。
骋智辩以饰非，肆忿戾以害物。
爪牙重将，心膂谋臣，或顾眄以就拘囚，或一言而及菹醢。朝之君子，相顾懔然。
自谓安若泰山，举无遗策，怵于邪说，即安荆楚。
虽元恶克剪，社稷未宁，而西邻责言，祸败旋及。
上天降鉴，此焉假手，天道人事，其可诬乎！
其笃志艺文，采浮淫而弃忠信；戎昭果毅，先骨肉而后寇仇。
translation: 
Act when you see benefits, refuse to give advice and violate divination, open the door to thieves, abandon good and follow evil, disasters arise from within, disasters are generated by Rong and Jie, you die unexpectedly, disasters affect hundreds of millions of people, dignitaries die under the sharp arrows, old and young are shattered under the feet of soldiers and horses.
After watching "Maili", I deeply felt sorry for the ancestral temple of the Zhou Dynasty; I always said that "Maixiu" made me feel more sad than the Yin Xu.
Since ancient times, we have been prepared for danger in times of peace, but we have succeeded and failed, and the country has been subverted so quickly. This has never been seen in book records.
"Yi" says: The people supported by heaven are obedient people, and the people supported by people are trustworthy people.
Emperor Gaozu encountered such a difficult fate and could not die a worthy death, probably because he was prone to danger, did not seek obedience, and lost the support of heaven and people. Could he have avoided such an ending?
Taizong was smarter than ordinary people, full of energy, knowledgeable and knowledgeable, and rich in vocabulary.
However, the style of writing is gorgeous, and there are few people who can use it. The articles are flashy and unrealistic. The style of writing has exhausted its ability to be obscene and gorgeous, and the meaning of the writing is rarely smooth. The sound of sorrow and longing is overwhelming, so the customs have been changed, and this method is used to rectify the nations. Compared with Zhou Song and Mozhuang, it is different.
I was born at the wrong time and encountered many disasters. The violent and rebellious people fabricated accusations to incite rebellion, and the evil and cunning people committed heinous crimes. The disasters began with detention like in Mouli and ended with the disasters of Wangyi.
Youyou Cangtian, is it okay to ask this?
Once upon a time, the country was just having a hard time. The war was concentrated in the capital, and all the princes and kings gave up their positions and stood up to serve the king.
Emperor Yuan accepted the important task of taking charge of Shaanxi with his clan members who were as undeniable as a rock. He encountered the disaster of his princes and relatives and was the leader of the joint commander. He could not hold his sword and think about the battle while lying on his salary and taste his gall.
He was not in a hurry to kill thieves like Wang Mang and Dong Zhuo, but he started killing brothers.
He also has a very jealous and cruel personality and often does rude things.
Let his wisdom and eloquence be used to cover up mistakes, and his resentment and violence will be allowed to damage things.
Some of his right-hand men, important generals, and close advisers were imprisoned just for looking at him, and some were tortured by being minced into pieces for just one word. All the gentlemen in the court were afraid of each other.
He thinks that he is as stable as Mount Tai, and if he acts without leaving any strategy behind and is wary of heresy, he can pacify Jingchu.
Although the chief culprit was defeated and cut off, there was no peace in the country, and there were words of blame from the neighboring countries to the west. Disasters and failures soon followed.
God has sent down a clear warning. This is a fake hand on human beings. God's way and human affairs can be deceived!
Emperor Yuan was very interested in art and literature, but he abandoned his loyalty and credibility by writing frivolous and lewd words. He showed his courage and perseverance in war, but he first killed his relatives and then his enemies.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
虽口诵《六经》，心通百氏，有仲尼之学，有公旦之才，适足以益其骄矜，增其祸患，何补金陵之覆没，何救江陵之灭亡哉！
敬帝遭家不造，绍兹屯运，征伐有所自出，政刑不由于己，时无伊、霍之辅，焉得不为高让欤？
translation: 
Although he can recite the Six Classics orally, understand the people with his heart, has the knowledge of Zhongni, and has the ability to take on all tasks, this is just enough to increase his arrogance and increase his disasters. It will not help the overthrow of Jinling, and it will not save the destruction of Jiangling!
Emperor Jing suffered from family failure, and following the difficult national destiny, some conquests came from his own mind, but political orders and punishments could not be controlled by himself. There were no assistant ministers like Yi and Huo at that time, how could Emperor Jing not make concessions?


