Chunk 0: 
original: 
自古受命帝王及继体过文之君，非独内德茂也，盖亦有外戚之助焉。
夏之兴也以涂山，而桀之放也用末喜；殷之兴也以有娀及有，而纣之灭也嬖妲己；周之兴也以姜嫄及太任、太姒，而幽王之禽也淫褒姒。
故《易》基《乾》、《坤》，《诗》首《关睢》，《书》美釐降，《春秋》讥不亲迎。
夫妇之际，人道之大伦也。
礼之用，唯昏姻为兢兢。
夫乐调而四时和，阴阳之变，万物之统也，可不慎与！
人能弘道，末如命何。
甚哉妃匹之爱，君不能得之臣，父不能得之子，况卑下乎！
既欢合矣，或不能成子姓，成子姓矣，而不能要其终，岂非命也哉！
孔子罕言命，盖难言之。
非通幽明之变，恶能识乎性命！
translation: 
Since ancient times, emperors who started their own business and monarchs who inherited the throne and followed the laws established by the previous kings did not only rely on their own good virtues, but also were inseparable from the help of their relatives.
The rise of the Xia Dynasty was related to the Tushan clan, while Jie's exile was due to Moxi; the rise of the Yin Dynasty was inseparable from the thieves and marries, and the demise of Zhou was due to his favor and trust in Daji; the rise of the Zhou Dynasty depended on Jiang Xi, Tairen, and Taisi, and King You was captured by Rong Di because of his lewd relationship with Guo Si.
Therefore Ti begins with the two hexagrams "Qian" and "Kun", "The Book of Songs" takes "Guan Ju" as its first chapter, "Shangshu" praises Tang Yao for marrying his two daughters to Yu Shun, and "Spring and Autumn" satirizes Duke Yin of Lu for marrying his wife instead of marrying him himself.
The relationship between husband and wife is a matter of human ethics. Marriage matters in etiquette and law must be done with caution.
Only when music is harmonious can the four seasons be harmonious.
The changes of yin and yang create all things in the world, so how can we not be cautious!
People can carry forward the great road, but they can't do anything about destiny.
The affection between spouses is beyond all else. Even with the dignity of a king and father, he cannot force his children to surrender, let alone the lowly ones!
The love between husband and wife is joyful and harmonious, but some people cannot have children, and even if they have children, they cannot have a good death. Isn't this the destiny of heaven!
Confucius rarely talked about the Mandate of Heaven, probably because it was difficult to explain clearly.
If you don’t understand the changes of yin and yang, how can you know life!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉兴，因秦之称号，帝母称皇太后，祖母称太皇太后，適称皇后，妾皆称夫人。
又有美人、良人、八子、七子、长使、少使之号焉。
至武帝制婕妤、濩娥、傛华、充依，各有爵位，而元帝加昭仪之号，凡十四等云。
昭仪位视丞相，爵比诸侯王。
婕妤视上卿，比列侯。
濩娥视中二千石，比关内侯。
傛华视真二千石，比大上造。
美人视二千石，比少上造。
八子视千石，比中更。
充依视千石，比左更。
七子视八百石，比右庶长。
良人视八百石，比左庶长。
长使视六百石，比五大夫。
少使视四百石，比公乘。
五官视三百石。
顺常视二百石。
无涓、共和、娱灵、保林、良使、夜者皆视百石。
上家人子、中家人子视有秩斗食云。
五官以下，葬司马门外。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty followed the titles of the Qin Dynasty. The emperor's mother was called the empress dowager, his grandmother was called the empress dowager, his wife was called the queen, and his concubines were all called madam.
There are also titles such as Beauty, Beloved, Eighth Son, Seventh Son, Long Envoy, and Young Envoy.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Jieyu, Xi'e, Suhua, and Chongyi were established, each with a certain title. Under Emperor Yuan, the title of Zhaoyi was established, with a total of fourteen levels.
Zhaoyi's salary rank is equivalent to that of the prime minister, and his title is equivalent to that of princes and kings.
Jie Jie is equivalent to a high official, and his title is equivalent to that of a prince.
Nephew'e is equivalent to two thousand stones, and her title is the same as that of Guannei Marquis.
Ronghua is equivalent to two thousand stones, and the title is the same as that of Dashangzo.
The beauty is equivalent to two thousand stones, and the title is the same as that of the young master.
Bazi is equivalent to Ganshi, and his title is the same as Zhonggeng.
Chunyi is equivalent to Qianshi, and his title is the same as Zuogeng.
The seventh son is equivalent to eight hundred stones, and the title is the same as that of the right concubine.
The price of a good man is equivalent to eight hundred dan, and his title is the same as that of Zuo Shuzhang.
The chief envoy is equivalent to six hundred dan, and his title is the same as that of the fifth official.
A minor envoy is equivalent to four hundred dan, and his title is equivalent to that of a public servant.
The five senses are equivalent to three hundred stones.
It is usually equivalent to two hundred stones.
Wujuan, Gonghe, Yuling, Baolin, Liangshi, and Yezhe are all equivalent to a hundred stones.
The sons of the upper family and the sons of the middle family are equivalent to fighting for food with rank and wealth.
Those with grades below the five sense organs are buried outside Simamen after death.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
高祖吕皇后，父吕公，单父人也，好相人。
高祖微时，吕公见而异之，乃以女妻高祖，生惠帝、鲁元公主。
高祖为汉王，元年封吕公为临泗侯，二年立孝惠为太子。
后汉王得定陶戚姬，爱幸，生赵隐王如意。
太子为人仁弱，高祖以为不类己，常欲废之而立如意， 如意类我 。
戚姬常从上之关东，日夜啼泣，欲立其子。
吕后年长，常留守，希见，益疏。
如意且立为赵王，留长安，几代太子者数。
赖公卿大臣争之，及叔孙通谏，用留侯之策，得无易。
吕后为人刚毅，佐高帝定天下，兄二人皆为列将，从征伐。
长兄泽为周吕侯，次兄释之为建成侯，逮高祖而侯者三人。
高祖四年，临泗侯吕公薨。
高祖崩，惠帝立，吕后为皇太后，乃令永巷囚戚夫人，髡钳衣赭衣，令舂。
戚夫人舂且歌曰： 子为王，母为虏，终日舂薄幕，常与死为伍！
translation: 
Empress Lu of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, whose father was Lu Gong, was a single father and liked to meet people.
When Emperor Gaozu was poor and humble, Lu Gong saw him and thought he was not an ordinary person, so he married his daughter to him and gave birth to Emperor Hui and Princess Lu Yuan.
Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, and in the first year he granted Duke Lu the title of Marquis of Linsi. In the second year, he made Emperor Xiaohui the crown prince.
Later, the king of Han married Qi Ji of Dingtao and loved her very much. Qi Ji gave birth to King Ruyi of Zhao Yin.
The prince was kind and cowardly. Emperor Gaozu thought that he was not like himself, so he often planned to abolish the prince and replace him with Ruyi, saying that Ruyi was like me.
Qi Ji often followed the emperor on expeditions to Guandong, crying day and night, hoping to make her son the crown prince.
As Queen Lu was getting older, she often stayed in Guanzhong and rarely saw the emperor, so she became even more alienated.
Ruyi was named King of Zhao and lived in Chang'an. He was almost made a prince several times.
Fortunately, the ministers strongly opposed it. When Shusun Tong came to remonstrate, he adopted the strategy of staying in the marquis, so the prince was not replaced.
Empress Lu was a resolute person and assisted Gaozu in bringing peace to the world. Her two brothers were both generals and fought with Gaozu.
The eldest brother Lu Ze was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Lu, and the second brother Lu Shizhi was granted the title of Marquis of Jiancheng. By the time Gaozu proclaimed himself emperor, three people in the Lu family had been granted the title of marquis.
In the fourth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Duke Lu, the Marquis of Linsi, passed away.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Emperor Hui ascended the throne, and Empress Lu became the empress dowager, she ordered Mrs. Qi to be imprisoned in Yongxiang. Her hair was shaved, an iron ring was tied around her neck, she was put on the red clothes of a prisoner, and she was asked to do hard labor by pounding rice.
Mrs. Qi sang a song while pounding rice: The son is a king, the mother is a slave, pounding rice all day long, often accompanied by death!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
相离三千里，当谁使告女？
太后闻之大怒，曰： 乃欲倚女子邪？
乃召赵王诛之。
使者三反，赵相周昌不遣。
太后召赵相，相征至长安。
使人复召赵王，王来。
惠帝慈仁，知太后怒，自迎赵王霸上，入宫，挟与起居饮食。
数月，帝晨出射，赵王不能蚤起，太后伺其独居，使人持鸩饮之。
迟帝还，赵王死。
太后遂断戚夫人手足，去眼熏耳，饮瘖药，使居鞠域中，名曰 人彘 。
居数月，乃召惠帝视 人彘 。
帝视而问，知其戚夫人，乃大哭，因病，岁余不能起。
使人请太后曰： 此非人所为。
臣为太后子，终不能复治天下！
以此日饮为淫乐，不听政，七年而崩。
太后发丧，哭而泣不下。
translation: 
Three thousand miles apart, who can tell you?
Queen Mother Lu was furious when she heard about it and said: Do you still want to rely on your son?
He summoned King Zhao to Chang'an and planned to kill him.
The envoy went back and forth three times, but Zhou Chang, the Prime Minister of Zhao, refused to let King Zhao go.
The Queen Mother summoned Prime Minister Zhao and summoned him to Chang'an.
Then he sent someone to summon King Zhao, and King Zhao came.
Emperor Hui was kind by nature and knew that the Queen Mother hated King Zhao, so he went to Ba Shang to greet King Zhao in person, and they entered the palace together, eating and living in the same place.
A few months later, Emperor Hui went out to hunt in the morning, but King Zhao did not get up early. The Queen Mother sent someone to give him poisoned wine while he was sleeping.
When Emperor Hui came back, King Zhao was already dead.
The Queen Mother cut off Mrs. Qi's hands and feet, gouged out her eyes, smoked her deaf ears, drank dumb medicine, and threw her in a cave to wrap her up, calling her a "human pig."
A few months later, Emperor Hui was called to see the pigs.
When Huitong saw and asked, he realized that this was Mrs. Qi, and he burst into tears. From then on, he became ill and did not recover for more than a year.
Emperor Hui sent someone to tell the Queen Mother: This is not something humans do.
As the Queen Mother's son, I will not be able to govern the world after all.
From then on, he drank and had fun every day and ignored political affairs at all. He died seven years later.
The Queen Mother mourned Emperor Hui and cried without tears.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
留侯子张辟强为侍中，年十五，谓丞相陈平曰： 太后独有帝，今哭而不悲，君知其解未？
陈平曰： 何解？
辟强曰： 帝无壮子，太后畏君等。
今请拜吕台、吕产为将，将兵居南北军，及诸吕皆军，居中用事。
如此则太后心安，君等幸脱祸矣！
丞相如辟强计请之，太后说，其哭乃哀。
吕氏权由此起。
乃立孝惠后宫子为帝，太后临朝称制。
复杀高祖子赵幽王友、共王恢及燕王建子。
遂立周吕侯子台为吕王，台弟产为梁王，建城侯释之子禄为赵王，台子通为燕王，又封诸吕凡六人皆为列侯，追尊父吕公为吕宣王，兄周吕侯为悼武王。
太后持天下八年，病犬祸而崩，语在《五行志》。
病困，以赵王禄为上将军居北军，梁王产为相国居南军，戒产、禄曰： 高祖与大臣约，非刘氏王者，天下共击之。今王吕氏，大臣不平。
我即崩，恐其为变，必据兵卫宫，慎毋送丧，为人所制。
translation: 
Zhang Piqiang, the son of Liuhou, was a minister and was only fifteen years old. He said to the Prime Minister Chen Ping: The Queen Mother only has one son, the Emperor. Now she cries but does not feel sad. Do you know the reason for this?
Chen Ping said: What is the reason?
Zhang Piqiang said: The emperor has no eldest son, and the queen mother is afraid of you ministers.
Now, if the Queen Mother is asked to appoint Lu Tai and Lu Chan as generals, let them command the Southern Army and the Northern Army respectively, and give official positions to the Lu family members so that they can work in the court.
This will put the Queen Mother at ease, and you will be lucky enough to avoid death!
Chen Ping followed Zhang Piqiang's plan to invite the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother was overjoyed and began to cry sadly.
From then on, the power of the Lu family was formed.
So Emperor Xiaohui's son was made emperor, and the Queen Mother handled state affairs and exercised the emperor's power.
The Queen Mother also killed Gaozu's son, King Zhao You, Liu You, King Liu Hui of the Communist Party, and the son of King Liu Jian of Yanling.
He named Lü Tai, the son of Zhou Luhou, as King Lu, Lü Tai's younger brother Lü Chan as King of Liang, Lü Lu, the son of the feudal city lord Lü Shizhi, as King of Zhao, Lü Tong, son of Lü Tai, as King of Yan, and six other Lu clans as lieutenants. The empress dowager's father, Lü Gong, was named King Lü Xuan, and his elder brother, Zhou Lühou, was named King Wuwu.
The Queen Mother was in charge of the state affairs for eight years. She died of an illness caused by a dog misfortune. This incident was recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
When the Queen Mother was seriously ill, she asked King Lu Lu of Zhao to be the general to lead the Northern Army, and King Lu Chan of Liang to be the Prime Minister to lead the Southern Army. She also warned Dan Chen and Dan Zheng: Back then, Haozu made an appointment with the ministers, and the king of the non-Liu family would attack the whole country together. Now that the Lu family has been crowned king, the ministers are all aggrieved.
I am about to die, and I am afraid that the ministers will take the opportunity to cause chaos. You must lead the army to guard the palace, and do not go out to mourn, lest you be controlled by others.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
太后崩，太尉周勃、丞相陈平、朱虚侯刘章等共诛产、禄、悉捕诸吕男女，无少长皆斩之。
而迎立代王，是为孝文皇帝。
孝惠张皇后。
宣平侯敖尚帝姊鲁元公主，有女。
惠帝即位，吕太后欲为重亲，以公主女配帝为皇后。
欲其生子，万方终无子，乃使阳为有身，取后宫美人子名之，杀其母，立所名子为太子。
惠帝崩，太子立为帝，四年，乃自知非皇后子，出言曰： 太后安能杀吾母而名我！
我壮即为所为。
太后闻而患之，恐其作乱，乃幽之永巷，言帝病甚，左右莫得见。
太后下诏废之，语在《高后纪》。
遂幽死，更立恒山王弘为皇帝，而以吕禄女为皇后。欲连根固本牢甚，然而无益也。
吕太后崩，大臣正之，卒灭吕氏。
少帝恒山、淮南、济川王，皆以非孝惠子诛。
独置孝惠皇后，废处北宫，孝文后元年薨，葬安陵，不起坟。
translation: 
After the death of the Empress Dowager, Taiwei Zhou Bo, Prime Minister Chen Ping, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang and others jointly executed Lu Chan and Lu Lu, and captured all the Lu family members, young and old, and killed them all.
So he welcomed Dai Wang and established him as emperor, that is, Emperor Xiaowen.
Empress Zhang of Emperor Xiaohui.
Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping, married Princess Lu Yuan, the sister of Emperor Hui, and gave birth to a daughter.
After Emperor Hui ascended the throne, Empress Dowager Lu planned to marry the princess, so she betrothed the princess's daughter to Emperor Hui as the queen.
Empress Dowager Lu hoped that the queen would give birth to a son, but she still had no child despite all possible means, so she asked her to pretend to be pregnant, pretending that the son born to a beauty in the harem was the queen's son, and then killed the child's biological mother and made the child the prince.
After the death of Emperor Hui, the prince was made emperor. After four years on the throne, he realized that he was not the biological son of the queen. He said boldly: How could the queen mother kill my mother and say that I was born to the queen!
When I grow up, I know what to do.
The Queen Mother was very worried when she heard about it, fearing that he would cause trouble in the future, so she imprisoned him in Yongxiang and announced that the emperor was seriously ill and that even the attendants could not see him.
The Queen Mother issued an edict to depose him, and this incident was recorded in the "Gaohou Ji".
The young emperor was imprisoned and died. The Queen Mother changed the name of Hengshan King Liu Hong to the emperor and made Lu Lu's daughter the queen, hoping to fundamentally consolidate the Lu family's status, but these did not have much effect.
After the death of Empress Dowager Lu, the ministers brought order to the chaos and finally annihilated the Lu family.
The young emperor Hengshan King, Huainan King, and Jichuan King were all killed because they were not the biological sons of Emperor Xiaohui.
Only Queen Xiaohui remained, and her title of queen was abolished, and she lived in the North Palace. In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, Queen Xiaohui died and was buried in Anling without building a mausoleum.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
高祖薄姬，文帝母也。
父吴人，秦时与故魏王宗女魏媪通，生薄姬。
而薄姬父死山阴，因葬焉。
及诸侯畔秦，魏豹立为王，而魏媪内其女于魏宫。
许负相薄姬，当生天子。
是时，项羽方与汉王相距荥阳，天下未有所定。
豹初与汉击楚，及闻许负言，心喜，因背汉而中立，与楚连和。
汉使曹参等虏魏王豹，以其国为郡，而薄姬输织室。
豹已死，汉王入织室，见薄姬，有诏内后宫，岁余不得幸。
始姬少时，与管夫人、赵子儿相爱，约曰： 先贵毋相忘！
已而管夫人、赵子儿先幸汉王。
汉王四年，坐河南成皋灵台，此两美人侍，相与笑薄姬初时约。
汉王问其故，两人俱以实告。
汉王心凄然怜薄姬，是日召，欲幸之。
对曰： 昨暮梦龙据妾胸。
上曰： 是贵征也，吾为汝成之。
遂幸，有身。
translation: 
Gaozu's Bo Ji was the mother of Emperor Wen.
Bo Ji's father was from Wu. During the Qin Dynasty, he had an affair with Wei Lao, a woman from the original clan of the King of Wei. Give birth to Bo Ji.
Bo Ji's father died in Shanyin and was buried there.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wei Bao proclaimed himself king, and Wei Yu sent her daughter to the Wei palace.
Xu Fu met Bo Ji and said that she could give birth to the emperor.
At this time, Xiang Yu was confronting the King of Han in Rongyang, and the world was not yet peaceful.
Wei Bao initially attacked Chu with Mo. After hearing Xu Negi's words, he was overjoyed, betrayed Han, implemented neutrality, and made friends with Chu.
The king of Han sent Cao Shen and others to capture King Bao of Wei and set his territory as a county, while Bo Ji was sent to the weaving room.
After Wei Bao's death, the King of Han entered the weaving room and saw Bo Ji, so he issued an edict to include her in the harem. However, he did not receive the emperor's favor for more than a year.
When Bo Ji was young, she was very close to Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier, and she swore: Whoever gets the honor first, don't forget the others!
Soon Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier were the first to be favored by the King of Han.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, when he was visiting Lingtai in Chenggao, Henan, these two beauties stood aside and laughed at Bo Ji's alliance with them.
The king of Han asked about the reason, and the two men told him the truth.
The King of Han felt pity for Bo Ji, so he summoned her that day and planned to protect her.
Bo Ji said to the King of Han: Last night, I dreamed of a dragon coiled on my chest.
The King of Han said: This is a sign of your honor. I will help you achieve it.
Fortunately, Bo Ji became pregnant.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
岁中生文帝，年八岁立为代王。
自有子后，希见。
高祖崩，诸幸姬戚夫人之属，吕后怒，皆幽之不得出宫。
而薄姬以希见故，得出从子之代，为代太后。
太后弟薄昭从如代。
代王立十七年，高后崩。
大臣议立后，疾外家吕氏强暴，皆称薄氏仁善，故迎立代王为皇帝，尊太后为皇太后，封弟昭为轵侯。
太后母亦前死，葬栎阳北，乃追尊太后父为灵文侯，会稽郡致园邑三百家，长丞以下使奉守寝庙，上食祠如法。
栎阳亦置灵文夫人园，令如灵文侯园仪。
太后蚤失父，其奉太后外家魏氏有力，乃召复魏氏，赏赐各以亲疏受之。
薄氏侯者一人。
太后后文帝二岁，孝景前二年崩，葬南陵。
用吕后不合葬长陵，故特自起陵，近文帝。
translation: 
Emperor Wen was born in this year and was made king at the age of eight.
Since Bo Ji gave birth to her son, she rarely saw the emperor.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, those favored concubines such as Mrs. Qi were hated by Empress Lu and were imprisoned and unable to leave the palace.
Because Bo Ji was rarely summoned by the emperor, she was able to follow her son to Dai and became the Queen Mother of Dai.
Bo Zhao, the younger brother of the Queen Mother Dai, also followed to the Kingdom of Dai.
In the seventeenth year of the reign of King Dai, Empress Dowager Lu died.
The ministers discussed the establishment of a new emperor. They hated the tyranny of their relative, Lu, and praised Bo for her kindness and kindness. Therefore, they welcomed King Dai as the emperor, honored the Queen Mother Dai as the Queen Mother, and named Bo Zhao, the Queen Mother's younger brother, Zhihou.
The Queen Mother's mother had also died before this and was buried in the north of Liangyang. So he pursued the empress dowager's father as the Marquis of Lingwen, built a cemetery in Kuaiji County, set up 300 families to guard the garden, and ordered officials below the chief minister to guard the temple and perform sacrifices according to the law.
Liang Yang also set up a cemetery for Mrs. Lingwen, with the same specifications and rituals as the cemetery for Marquis Lingwen.
The Queen Mother lost her father in her early years and was raised by the Wei family of her grandmother's family. She summoned the Wei family and gave them preferential treatment, and rewarded them according to the distance of their relationship.
One member of the Bo family was granted the title of Marquis.
Empress Dowager Bo died in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign two years after the death of Emperor Wen, and was buried in Nanling.
Because Empress Lu was a queen, she could not be buried with Emperor Gaozu in Changling, so a separate mausoleum was specially built close to Emperor Wen.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
孝文窦皇后，景帝母也，吕太后时以良家子选入宫。
太后出宫人以赐诸王各五人，窦姬与在行中。
家在清河，愿如赵，近家，请其主遣宦者吏 必置我籍赵之伍中 。
宦者忘之，误置籍代伍中。
籍奏，诏可。
当行，窦姬涕泣，怨其宦者，不欲往，相强乃肯行。
至代，代王独幸窦姬，生女嫖。
孝惠七年，生景帝。
代王王后生四男，先代王未入立为帝而王后卒，乃代王为帝后，王后所生四男更病死。
文帝立数月，公卿请立太子，而窦姬男最长，立为太子。
窦姬为皇后，女为馆陶长公主。
明年，封少子武为代王，后徙梁，是为梁孝王。
窦皇后亲蚤卒，葬观津。
于是薄太后乃诏有司追封窦后父为安成侯，母曰安成夫人，令清河置园邑二百家，长丞奉守，比灵文园法。
窦后兄长君。
translation: 
Empress Xiaowen Dou was the mother of Emperor Jing. When Empress Dowager Lu came to power, she was elected to the palace as a child of a good family.
After he was established, some maids were selected to leave the palace and be given to the princes and kings, five each. Concubine Dou was also selected from the palace.
Dou Ji was originally from Qinghe County. She wanted to go to Zhao State to be closer to home, so she asked the eunuch in charge of dispatching palace maids: "My name must be put on the list of people going to Zhao State."
However, the eunuch forgot her instructions and mistakenly put her name on the list of Dai Guo.
After the list was submitted, the emperor issued an edict to approve it.
When it was time to set off, Dou Ji burst into tears and resented the eunuch. She didn't want to go, so others persuaded her to leave reluctantly.
When he arrived in the Kingdom of Dai, King Dai only favored Shi Ji and gave birth to a daughter named Liu.
In the seventh year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Jing was born.
Dai Wang's original queen gave birth to four sons. She had died before Dai Wang became emperor. After Dai Wang became emperor, the four sons born to the queen died of illness one after another.
A few months after Emperor Wen ascended the throne, the ministers asked for the appointment of a prince, and Dou Ji's son, the oldest, was established as the prince.
Dou Ji was enshrined as the queen, and her daughter was named the Princess of Guantao.
The next year, Baoji's youngest son Liu Wu was named acting king, and later changed to King Liang, which is King Xiao of Liang.
Queen Dou's parents had died long ago and were buried in Guanjin.
Therefore, Empress Dowager Bo sent a letter to the relevant authorities and named Empress Dou's father Anchenghou and mother Mrs. Ancheng. She ordered Qinghe County to set up a cemetery and arranged for Chang Cheng to lead 200 families to guard it. The specifications and ceremonies were the same as those of Empress Dowager Bo's father's Lingwen Garden.
Queen Dou's brother is Dou Changjun.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
弟广国字少君，年四五岁时，家贫，为人所略卖，其家不知处。
传十余家至宜阳，为其主人入山作炭。
暮卧岸下百余人，岸崩，尽压杀卧者，少君独脱不死。
自卜，数日当为侯。
从其家之长安，闻皇后新立，家在观津，姓窦氏。
广国去时虽少，识其县名及姓，又尝与其姊采桑，堕，用为符信，上书自陈。
皇后言帝，召见问之，具言其故。果是。
复问其所识，曰： 姊去我西时，与我决传舍中，匄沐沐我，已，饭我，乃去。
于是窦皇后持之而泣，侍御左右皆悲。
乃厚赐之，家于长安。
绛侯、灌将军等曰： 吾属不死，命乃且县此两人。
此两人所出微，不可不为择师傅，又复放吕氏大事也。
于是乃选长者之有节行者与居。
translation: 
His younger brother Dou Guang, also known as Shaojun, was robbed and sold by others when he was four or five years old because of his poor family. His whereabouts were unknown to his family members.
He was sold to more than a dozen houses, and was finally sold to Yiyang to burn charcoal in the mountains for his master.
One evening at dusk, more than a hundred people were sleeping on the edge of the cliff. The cliff suddenly collapsed and everyone sleeping on the edge of the cliff was crushed to death. Only Shaojun survived.
He divined for himself, and the divination showed that he would become a prince in a few days.
He followed his master to Chang'an and heard that the newly canonized queen was originally from Guanjin and her surname was Bao.
Although Guangguo was young when he left home, he still remembered his place of origin and surname. He also remembered that he and his sister once went to pick mulberry leaves and fell from the tree. He used these things as evidence and wrote a letter describing his life experience.
Empress Dou told Emperor Wen these things, and then summoned Guang Guo for questioning. He told the whole story in detail, and it turned out to be true.
Asked about some past events he still remembered, he said: When my sister left me to go west, she said goodbye to me at the inn, asked for rice juice to wash my hair, and then gave me a meal before leaving.
So Queen Dou held his hand and cried loudly, and the waiters on the left and right also became sad.
He rewarded Guang Guo heavily and allowed him to live in Chang'an.
Jianghou Zhou Bo, General Guan Ying and others said: If we people do not die, our lives will be in the hands of these two people.
They were from a humble background and had to choose a good mentor for them, lest they follow the old example of the Lu family again.
Therefore, virtuous elders were selected to live with them.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
窦长君、少君由此为退让君子，不敢以富贵骄人。
窦皇后疾，失明。
文帝幸邯郸慎夫人、尹姬，皆无子。
文帝崩，景帝位，皇后为皇太后，乃封广国为章武侯。
长君先死，封其子彭祖为南皮侯。
吴、楚反时，太后从昆弟子窦婴侠，喜士，为大将军，破吴、楚、封魏其侯。
窦氏侯者凡三人。
窦太后好黄帝、老子言，景帝及诸窦不得不读《老子》尊其术。
太后后景帝六岁，凡立四十五年，建元六年崩，合葬霸陵。
遗诏尽以东宫金钱财物赐长公主嫖。
至武帝时，魏其侯窦婴为丞相，后诛。
孝景薄皇后，孝文薄太后家女也。
景帝为太子时，薄太后取以为太子妃。
景帝立，立薄妃为皇后，无子无宠。
立六年，薄太后崩，皇后废。
废后四年薨，葬长安城东平望亭南。
孝景王皇后，武帝母也。
translation: 
From then on, Dou Changjun and Dou Shaojun became humble and courteous gentlemen, who did not dare to be arrogant because of their high status.
Queen Dou later became ill and became blind.
Emperor Wen also favored Mrs. Handan Shen and Yin Ji, but they had no sons.
After Emperor Wen passed away and Emperor Jing ascended the throne, Empress Bao became the Empress Dowager and granted Dou Guangguo the title of Marquis Zhangwu.
Dou Changjun died early and named his son Dou Pengzu the Marquis of Nanpi.
When Wu, Chu and other seven countries rebelled, Dou Ying, the cousin of the Queen Mother, was chivalrous and brave, and liked to make friends with scholars. He was appointed as a general. After the Wu and Chu rebellions were suppressed, he was named Wei Qihou.
There are three people in the Dou family who have been granted the title of Marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou liked the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi. Emperor Jing and the Dou family had to read "Laozi" and admire Huang and Laozi's techniques.
Empress Dowager Dou died six years after Emperor Jing's death, fifty-one years after she was established as queen, that is, in the sixth year of Yuanguang, and was buried in Ba Ling with Emperor Wen.
According to his instructions, Shao rewarded the eldest princess Liu Prostitute with all the gold and silver belongings in Shu Palace.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wei Qihou Dou Ying became prime minister and was later killed.
Emperor Xiaojing and Empress Bo were the daughters of Emperor Xiaowen and Empress Dowager Bo.
When Emperor Jing was the crown prince, Empress Dowager Bo married Bo as the crown prince for him.
After Emperor Jing ascended the throne, he made Concubine Bo the queen. Empress Bo had no sons and was not favored by Emperor Jing.
Bo served as queen for six years, but after the death of Empress Dowager Bo, she was deposed.
Empress Bo died in the fourth year after she was deposed and was buried south of Shupingwang Pavilion in Chang'an City.
Empress Xiaojing was the mother of Emperor Wu.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
父王仲，槐里人也。
母臧皃，故燕王臧荼孙也，为仲妻，生男信与两女。
而仲死，臧皃更嫁为长陵田氏妇，生男蚡、胜。
臧皃长女嫁为金王孙妇，生一女矣，而臧皃卜筮曰两女当贵，欲倚两女，夺金氏。
金氏怒，不肯与决，乃内太子宫。
太子幸爱子，生三女一男。
男方在身时，王夫人梦日入其怀，以告太子，太子曰： 此贵征也。
未生而文帝崩，景帝即位，王夫人生男。
是时，薄皇后无子。
后数岁，景帝立齐栗姬男为太子，而王夫人男为胶东王。
长公主嫖有女，欲与太子为妃，栗姬妒，而景帝诸美人皆因长公主见得贵幸，栗姬日怨怒，谢长主，不许。
长主欲与王夫人，王夫人许之。
translation: 
Queen Wang's father is Wang Zhong, who is from Huaili.
The mother's name is Zang'er, the granddaughter of Zang Tu, the original king of Yan. She married Wang Zhong and gave birth to a son, Wang Xin, and two daughters.
After Wang Zhong died, Zang'er remarried to the Tian family in Changling and gave birth to sons Tian Pan and Tian Sheng.
Zang'er's eldest daughter married Jin Wangsun and gave birth to a daughter. However, Zang'er divined and found that both daughters were destined to be rich and noble. He hoped to gain respect and favor through his two daughters, so he divorced his daughter from the Jin family.
The Jin family was furious and refused to give up, so Zang'er sent his daughter to the crown prince's womb.
The prince loved Mrs. Wang very much, and she gave birth to three daughters and a son.
When Mrs. Wang was pregnant with her son, she dreamed of a sun rising into her belly, so she told the prince about it. The prince said: This is a sign of noble status.
Before the child was born, Emperor Wen passed away and after Emperor Jing came to the throne, Mrs. Wang gave birth to a son.
At this time, Queen Bo did not have any children.
A few years later, Emperor Jing appointed Qi Liji's son as the prince, and the son of the king's wife as the king of mice.
The eldest princess Liu had a daughter who planned to marry the prince as a concubine, but Li Ji was jealous by nature, and the beauties in Emperor Jing's harem often relied on the eldest princess's efforts to gain favor from the emperor. Li Ji became more and more resentful of the eldest princess, so she rejected the eldest princess and did not agree.
The eldest princess wanted to marry her daughter to Mrs. Wang's son, but Mrs. Wang agreed.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
会薄皇后废，长公主日谮栗姬短。
景帝尝属诸姬子，曰： 吾百岁后，善视之。
栗姬怒不肯应，言不逊，景帝心衔之而未发也。
长公主日誉王夫子男之美，帝亦自贤之。
又耳曩者所梦日符，计未有所定。
王夫人又阴使人趣大臣立栗姬为皇后。
大行奏事，文曰：  子以母贵，母以子贵。 今太子母号宜为皇后。
帝怒曰： 是乃所当言邪！
遂案诛大行，而废太子为临江王。
栗姬愈恚，不得见，以忧死。
卒立王夫人为皇后，男为太子。
封皇后兄信为盖侯。
初，皇后始入太子家，后女弟皃姁亦复入，生四男。
皃姁蚤卒，四子皆为王。
皇后长女为平阳公主，次南宫公主，次隆虑公主。
皇后立九年，景帝崩。
武帝即位，为皇太后，尊太后母臧皃为平原君，封田蚡为武安侯，胜为周阳侯。
王氏、田氏侯者凡三人。
盖侯信好酒，田蚡、胜贪，巧于文辞。
蚡至丞相，追尊王仲为共侯，槐里起园邑二百家，长丞奉守。
及平原君薨，从田氏葬长陵，亦置园邑如共侯法。
初，皇太后微时所为金王孙生女俗，在民间，盖讳之也。
translation: 
At this time, Queen Bo was deposed, and the eldest princess spoke ill of Li Ji in front of Emperor Jing every day.
Emperor Jing once entrusted Li Ji with the princes born to his wives, saying: After I die, you must take good care of them.
Li Ji was very angry, refused to agree, and spoke rudely. Emperor Jing was very dissatisfied, but he did not show it.
The eldest princess praised Mrs. Wang's son every day, and Emperor Jing himself thought the child was talented.
Coupled with the auspicious news that the child was born in a dream, Emperor Jing thought about it over and over again and could not make up his mind.
Mrs. Wang secretly sent people to urge the ministers to propose canonizing Li Ji as queen.
Daxing wrote a letter to commemorate the matter, and one sentence said: A son is more valuable than his mother, and a mother is more valuable than his son. Now the title of the prince's mother should be the queen.
Emperor Jing was furious and said: Is this what you should say?
So he went to Shao and killed Daxing, deposed the prince and changed his title to King Linjiang.
Li Ji was even more angry and could not be summoned by the emperor, so she died of fear.
Finally, Mrs. Wang was appointed queen, and Mrs. Wang's son became the prince.
He also made Wang Xin, the brother of Queen Wang, the Marquis of Gai.
At first, the queen had just entered the crown prince's womb, and later her sister Ergu was also brought in and gave birth to four sons.
Erku died very early, and all four sons became kings.
The queen's eldest daughter was named Princess Pingyang, her second daughter was named Princess Nangong, and her third daughter was named Princess Longlu.
In the ninth year after Queen Wang was enthroned, Emperor Jing died.
When Emperor Wu came to the throne and Queen Wang became the empress dowager, he honored his mother Zang'er as Lord of Pingyuan, Tian Pan as Marquis of Wu'an, and Tian Sheng as Marquis of Zhou Yang.
There are three people in the Wang and Tian families who have been granted the title of marquis.
Gaihou Wang Xin likes to drink, while Tian Xi and Tian Sheng are greedy and good at eloquence.
Tian Jin's officials continued to be prime ministers, and he honored Wang Zhong as a co-marquis. He set up a cemetery and 200 households in Huaili, and set up a garden director and a garden chief to guard the sacrifices.
After Lord Pingyuan passed away, he was buried with the Tian family in Changling, and a garden was also set up. The specifications and ceremonies were the same as those of Gonghou.
At the beginning, when the Empress Dowager was humble, she gave the name of the daughter she gave birth to to King Jin's grandson, because among the people, she did not want anyone to know.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
武这始立，韩嫣白之。
帝曰： 何为不蚤言？
乃车驾自往迎之。
其家在长陵小市，直至其门，使左右入求之。
家人惊恐，女逃匿。
扶将出拜，帝下车立曰： 大姊，何藏之深也？
载至长乐宫，与俱谒太后，太后垂涕，女亦悲泣。
帝奉酒，前为寿。
钱千万，奴婢三百人，公田百顷，甲第，以赐姊。
太后谢曰： 为帝费。
因赐汤沐邑，号修成君。
男女各一人，女嫁诸侯，男号修成子仲，以太后故，横于京师。
太后凡立二十五年，后景帝十五岁，元朔三年崩，合葬阳陵。
孝武陈皇后，长公主嫖女也。
曾祖父陈婴与项羽俱起，后归汉，为堂邑侯。
传子至孙午，午尚长公主，生女。
初，武帝得立为太子，长主有力，取主女为妃。
及帝即位，立为皇后，擅宠骄贵，十余年而无子，闻卫子夫得幸，几死者数焉。
上愈怒。
后又挟妇人媚道，颇觉。
元光五年，上遂穷治之，女子楚服等坐为皇后巫蛊祠祭祝诅，大逆无道，相连及诛者三百余人，楚服枭首于市。
使有司赐皇后策曰： 皇后失序，惑于巫祝，不可以承天命。
translation: 
When Emperor Wu first came to the throne, Han Yan told him about the incident.
Emperor Wu said: Why didn't you tell me earlier?
So he went to greet him in person.
Her family lived in a small market in Changling. Emperor Wu and others went straight to her door and sent their men in to invite Jin.
His family was horrified, and Kim was so frightened that he hid.
The servants helped her out to pay homage to the emperor. As soon as Emperor Wu got out of the car, he said: Sister, why are you hiding so deeply?
Then they got in the car and went to Changle Palace to meet the Queen Mother together. The Queen Mother shed tears, and Jin also cried sadly.
Emperor Wu raised a glass of wine and came forward to wish them longevity.
Emperor Wu rewarded his sister with 10 million guan of money, 300 slaves, 100 hectares of land, and a luxurious mansion.
The Queen Mother thanked her and said, "It's a waste of time for the Emperor."
He also gave her Tang Muyi and named her Xiuchengjun.
Lord Xiucheng had one son and one daughter each. His daughter was married to a prince, and his son was called Xiucheng Zizhong. He relied on the power of the Queen Mother to run rampant and tyrannical in the capital.
The Queen Mother reigned for a total of twenty-five years. Fifteen years after the death of Emperor Jing, that is, the third year of Yuan Shuo, the Queen Mother died and was buried with Emperor Jing in Yangling.
Empress Chen, Emperor Xiaowu, was the daughter of the eldest princess Liu Piao.
Her great-grandfather Chen Ying and Xiang Yu fought together, and later surrendered to the King of Han and were granted the title of Marquis of Tangyi.
The title was passed on to his son, and then to his grandson Chen Wu. Chen Wu married the eldest princess and gave birth to a daughter.
At the beginning, when Emperor Wu was able to be established as the prince, the eldest princess contributed a lot, so he married the eldest princess's daughter as his concubine.
After Emperor Wu came to the throne, Chen was appointed as the queen. She was extremely favored, proud and domineering. She had not had children for more than ten years. When she heard that Wei Zifu was favored by the emperor, he repeatedly harmed her.
Emperor Wu became even more angry.
Empress Chen once again used women's pleasing skills to try to win the emperor's favor, and things gradually came to light.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang, Emperor Wu investigated and punished the incident. The woman Chu Fu and others were convicted of using sorcery to bring disaster to others on behalf of the queen. The crime was so heinous that more than 300 people were killed. Chu Fu was beheaded in public display.
The emperor sent an official to reward the queen with a document saying: The queen does not abide by etiquette, prays to ghosts and gods, brings disaster to others, and cannot bear the destiny.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
其上玺绶，罢退居长门宫。
明年，堂邑侯午薨，主男须嗣侯。
主寡居，私近董偃。
十余年，主薨。
须坐淫乱，兄弟争财，当死，自杀，国除。
后数年，废后乃薨，葬霸陵郎官亭东。
孝武卫皇后字子夫，生微也。
其家号曰卫氏，出平阳侯邑。
子夫为平阳主讴者，武帝即位，数年无子。
平阳主求良家女十余人，饰置家。
帝祓霸上，还过平阳主。
主见所偫美人，帝不说。
既饮，讴者进，帝独说子夫。
帝起更衣，子夫侍尚衣轩中，得幸。
还坐欢甚，赐平阳主金千斤。
主因奏子夫送入宫。
子夫上车，主拊其背曰： 行矣！
强饭勉之。
即贵，愿无相忘！
translation: 
He should return the queen's seal and ribbon, leave the position of queen, and retreat to Nagato Palace.
In the second year, Chen Wu, the Marquis of Tangyi, passed away, and the princess's son Chen Xu succeeded to the throne.
The princess was a widow at home and secretly had an affair with Dong Yan.
More than ten years later, the princess died.
Chen Xu was convicted of fornication and fighting for property with his brothers and should be sentenced to death. Chen Xu committed suicide and his national title was abolished.
A few years later, the deposed Empress Chen also died and was buried in Shumian of Baling Langguan Pavilion.
Empress Xiaowu, Emperor Wei, also known as Zifu, was born in a lowly position.
Her family name is Wei, and she comes from the fiefdom of Bai Pingyang Marquis.
Zifu is the singer of Princess Huyang. After Emperor Wu came to the throne, he had no sons for many years.
Princess Pingyang selected a dozen girls from good families and dressed them up to stay at home.
Emperor Wu went to Bashang to pray for blessings and eliminate disasters, and when he came back, he paid a visit to Princess Pingyang.
The princess called out the selected beauties, but Emperor Wu didn't like them all.
While drinking, the singer came in, and Emperor Wu fell in love with Zihu.
Emperor Wu got up and went to change his clothes. Zifu served him in the dressing cart, and was favored by Emperor Wu.
Emperor Wu came back and sat down. He was very happy and rewarded Princess Pingyang with a thousand catties of gold.
The princess then asked her husband to be sent to the palace.
When Zihu got into the car, the princess stroked her back and said, "Go!"
Live well.
If you become rich, I hope you won’t forget me.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
入宫岁余，不复幸。
武帝择宫人不中用者斥出之，子夫得见，涕泣请出。
上怜之，复幸。遂有身，尊宠。
召其兄卫长君、弟青侍中。
而子夫生三女，元朔元年生男据，遂立为皇后。
先是，卫长君死，乃以青为将军，击匈奴有功，封长平侯。
青三子在襁褓中，皆为列侯。
及皇后姊子霍去病亦以军功为冠军侯，至大司马票骑将军。
青为大司马大将军。
卫氏支属侯者五人。
青还，尚平阳主。
皇后立七年，而男立为太子。
后色衰，赵之王夫人、中山李夫人有宠，皆蚤卒。
后有尹婕妤、钩弋夫人更幸。
卫后立三十八年，遭巫蛊事起，江充为奸，太子惧不能自明，遂与皇后共诛充，发兵，兵败，太子亡走。
诏遣宗正刘长乐、执金吾刘敢奉策收皇后玺绶，自杀。
黄门苏文、姚定汉舆置公车令空舍，盛以小棺，瘗之城南桐柏。
卫氏悉灭。
宣帝立，乃改葬卫后，追谥曰思后，置园邑三百家，长丞周卫奉守焉。
孝武李夫人，本以倡进。
初，夫人兄延年性知音，善歌舞，武帝爱之。
每为新声变曲，闻者莫不感动。
translation: 
It has been more than a year since Madam Weizi's palace was visited by the Emperor again.
Emperor Wu selected the maids who were no longer needed in the palace and drove them out of the palace. Zifu was able to see Emperor Wu and cried and begged to be allowed to leave the palace.
Emperor Wu was very fond of her. Fortunately, Zihu became pregnant again, and she was deeply favored by Emperor Wu.
Emperor Wu called Zifu's elder brother Wei Changjun and younger brother Wei Qing to serve as servants.
Zifu gave birth to three daughters. In the first year of Yuanshuo, his son Liu Shi was born, and she was named queen.
After the death of Wei Changjun, Wei Qing was made a general. He made great achievements in conquering the Xiongnu and was granted the title of Marquis of Changping.
Wei Qing had three sons who were ennobled as marquises when they were still in their infancy.
Huo Qubing, the son of Empress Wei's sister, was also awarded the title of Champion Marquis for his military merits, and his official rank reached the rank of Grand Sima Hussar General.
Wei Qing is the great general of Sima.
Five of Wei's relatives were granted the title of marquis.
Wei Qing returned from the expedition and married Princess Pingyang.
In the seventh year after Queen Wei was enthroned, her son was established as the prince.
Later, the queen's appearance deteriorated, and Mrs. Wang of Zhao and Mrs. Li of Zhongshan were favored by Emperor Wu, and they both died young.
Later, Mrs. Yin Jiandan and Mrs. Gou Yi were favored by Emperor Wu one after another.
In the thirty-eighth year of Queen Wei's reign, she encountered a witchcraft disaster and Jiang Chong used treacherous tactics. The prince was afraid but could not prove his innocence, so he and Queen Wei killed Jiang Chong and raised an army. As a result, the battle was defeated and the prince escaped.
Emperor Wu issued an edict and sent Zongzheng Liu Changle and Zhijinwu Liu Gan to take back the queen's seal with documents, and Queen Wei committed suicide.
Huangmen Suwen and Yao Dinghan carried the body of Empress Shangwei in a car and placed it in an empty room in the public carriage. They also put it into a small coffin and buried it in Tongbai in the south of the city.
The entire Wei family was killed.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Empress Wei was buried instead, and she was given the posthumous title of Empress Mi. A cemetery and 300 households were set up, and the director and the chief minister were ordered to offer sacrifices to her.
Mrs. Li, Emperor Xiaowu, originally entered the palace as a singer.
At first, Mrs. Li's brother Li Yannian was proficient in music and good at singing and dancing, and Emperor Wu liked him very much.
Every time Li Yannian composed a new piece of music, everyone who heard it was moved.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
延年侍上起舞，歌曰： 北方有佳人，绝世而独立，一顾倾人城，再顾倾人国。
宁不知倾城与倾国，佳人难再得！
上叹息曰： 善！
世岂有此人乎？
平阳主因言延年有女弟，上乃召见之，实妙丽善舞。
由是得幸，生一男，是为昌邑哀王。
李夫人少而蚤卒，上怜闵焉，图画其形于甘泉宫。
及卫思后废后四年，武帝崩，大将军霍光缘上雅意，以李夫人配食，追上尊号曰孝武皇后。
初，李夫人病笃，上自临候之，夫人蒙被谢曰： 妾久寝病，形貌毁坏，不可以见帝。
愿以王及兄弟为托。
上曰： 夫人病甚，殆将不起，一见我属托王及兄弟，岂不快哉？ 夫人曰： 妇人貌不修饰，不见君父。
妾不敢以燕媠见帝。
上曰： 夫人弟一见我，将加赐千金，而予兄弟尊言。
夫人曰： 尊官在帝，不在一见。
上复言欲必见之，夫人遂转乡歔欷而不复言。
于是上不说而起。
夫人姊妹让之曰： 贵人独不可一见上属托兄弟邪？
何为恨上如此？
夫人曰： 所以不欲见帝者，乃欲以深托兄弟也。
我以容貌之好，得从微贱爱幸于上。
translation: 
He danced for Emperor Wu and sang: There is a beauty in the north, whose beauty is unparalleled in the world. Look back and smile, overturning the country. Look back and smile again, overturning the country.
It’s not that we don’t cherish the city and country, it’s just that beauty is hard to come by again.
The emperor sighed and said: OK!
Is there really such a person in the world?
Princess Pingyang said that Li Yannian had a sister, and Emperor Wu summoned her. She was indeed beautiful and good at dancing.
Therefore, he was favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to a son, King Ai of Changyi.
Mrs. Li died young but died young. Emperor Wu felt very sorry for her, so he painted a portrait of her and hung it in Ganquan Palace.
Four years after Wei Si was deposed, Emperor Wu died. General Huo Guang followed Emperor Wu's wishes and gave Mrs. Li the title of Queen Xiaowu in the ancestral temple.
At first, Mrs. Li was seriously ill, and Emperor Wu went to visit her in person. The wife covered her face with a quilt and said: I have been ill for a long time and am ugly, so I cannot see the emperor.
Please take good care of my son and brother, Your Majesty. Emperor Wu said: My wife is very ill and may be dying.
Aren't you happy to meet me and tell me about your son and brothers? The lady said: A woman cannot see her father without dressing up.
I don't dare to see the emperor in a disheveled manner.
Emperor Wu said: Madam, as long as you meet me once, I will reward you with a thousand pieces of gold, and give your brother a promotion.
The lady said: The promotion is decided by the emperor, not just to meet me.
Emperor Wu said again that he must see her, so the lady turned away and sobbed and stopped talking.
So Emperor Wu left very unhappy.
The madam's sister complained to her and said, "Can't you meet with the emperor and ask about your brother's affairs?"
Why are you so resentful of the emperor?
The lady said: The reason why I don't want to see the emperor is to take this opportunity to entrust my brother.
By virtue of my beauty, I was able to win the favor of the emperor from a humble person.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
夫以色事人者，色衰而爱弛，爱弛则恩绝。
上所以挛挛顾念我者，乃以平生容貌也。
今见我毁坏，颜色非故，必畏恶吐弃我，意尚肯复追思闵录其兄弟哉！
及夫人卒，上以后礼葬焉。
其后，上以夫人兄李广利为贰师将军，封海西侯，延年为协律都尉。
上思念李夫人不已，方士齐人少翁言能致其神。
乃夜张灯烛，设帷帐，陈酒肉，而令上居他帐，遥望见好女如李夫人之貌，还幄坐而步。
又不得就视，上愈益相思悲感，为作诗曰： 是邪，非邪？
立而望之，偏何姗姗其来迟！
令乐府诸音家弦歌之。
上又自为作赋，以伤悼夫人，其辞曰：
美连娟以修嫮兮，命樔绝而不长，饰新官以延贮兮，泯不归乎故乡。
translation: 
Those who rely on their appearance to serve others will lose their friendship as their appearance fades. As their friendship becomes shallower, their kindness will be cut off.
The reason why the emperor still misses me affectionately is precisely because of my original appearance.
Now if you see my ugly appearance, you will definitely be scared, bored, and disgusted with me. How can I miss my brother who sympathized with me and treated me well?
After his wife's death, Emperor Wu buried her with the courtesy of a queen.
Then, Emperor Wu made Mrs. Li's brother Li Guangli the general of the Second Division and the Marquis of Haixi, and Li Yannian the captain of Xielu.
Emperor Wu had always been obsessed with Mrs. Li, and the young alchemist Qi Ren said that he could attract Mrs. Li's soul.
At night, they lit lamps and candles, hung up the curtains, put out wine and meat, and asked Emperor Wu to go to another tent to wrap up. Emperor Wu saw a beautiful woman from a distance, just like Mrs. Li, sitting down in the tent, getting up and walking slowly.
But he couldn't get close to see her, so Emperor Wu missed Mrs. Li even more. He felt sentimental in his heart and wrote a poem for her, saying: Is it you?
I stood there looking at you, but why did I walk so slowly and calmly!
Order the Yuefu musicians to sing along with the music.
Emperor Wu wrote another poem to commemorate Mrs. Li, which goes like this:
Your appearance is blazing and beautiful, but it is a pity that life is short and short-lived. I have decorated the new palace and waited for you for a long time, but you disappeared and never returned to your hometown.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
惨郁郁其芜秽兮，隐处幽而怀伤，释舆马于山椒兮，奄修夜之不阳。
秋气憯以凄泪兮，桂枝落而销亡，神茕茕以遥思兮，精浮游而出畺。
托沈阴以圹久兮，惜蕃华之未央，念穷极之不还兮，惟幼眇之相羊。
函菱荴以俟风兮，芳杂袭以弥章，的容与以猗靡兮，缥飘姚虖愈庄。
燕淫衍而抚楹兮，连流视而娥扬，既激感而心逐兮，包红颜而弗明。
欢接狎以离别兮，宵寤梦之芒芒，忽迁化而不反兮，魄放逸以飞扬。
何灵魂之纷纷兮，哀裴回以踌躇，势路日以远兮，遂荒忽而辞去。
超兮西征，屑兮不见。
浸淫敞恍，寂兮无音，思若流波，怛兮在心。
乱曰： 佳侠函光，陨朱荣兮，嫉妒阘茸，将安程兮！
方时隆盛，年夭伤兮，弟子增欷，洿沬怅兮。
悲愁于邑，喧不可止兮。
向不虚应，亦云已兮，嫶妍太息，叹稚子兮，懰栗不言，倚所恃兮。
translation: 
It's a desolate scene overgrown with grass. It makes me sad that you are in a dark place. Park your carriage and horse beside the mausoleum. When will the dawn break in the long night?
The cold autumn air makes my heart miserable. The lovely cinnamon twigs and jade are fragrant. My soul is lonely and yearning for you in the distance. My spirit wanders around without my body.
I have attached my love to you underground for a long time, and I regret that your beautiful face died prematurely. The end of the sky is probably not far away. I miss your graceful and graceful figure.
The flower stamens are blooming and waiting for the spring breeze. The refreshing fragrance is getting stronger and stronger. The bright face is gentle and peaceful, but it is more dignified when it is swaying in the wind.
The swallows fly back and forth and rest on the Yingliang. Your beautiful eyes are looking forward to the light eyebrows raised. If I feel something, I am pursuing you in my heart, but you hide your beauty deeply.
We met happily and intimately and finally separated. I woke up from my dream late at night and felt confused. You suddenly passed away and never came back. Your soul was free and free.
My thoughts are vague and uncertain. You linger and stop, and my heart feels sad. The road is getting farther and farther, and you drift away in a trance.
Like the red sun setting in the west, there was no trace in an instant.
Everything gradually became hazy, and there was no sound anymore. My thoughts about you are like running water, and my heart is always filled with sadness.
The epilogue says: Beauty shines brightly, but withers like flowers; how can those jealous and humble people compete with you!
He died young when he was in his prime. The brothers and children cried endlessly and exchanged tears with each other.
Sadness and depression are trapped in it, and the cries of mourning are endless.
You cannot understand our sorrow, it is so helpless. I lament that you are sad and thin, and you pity your young child. You are sad and silent, but you must have hope in your heart.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
仁者不誓，岂约亲兮？
既往不来，申以信兮。
去彼昭昭，就冥冥兮，既下新官，不复故庭兮。
呜呼哀哉，想魂灵兮！
其后李延年弟季坐奸乱怕宫，广利降匈奴，家族灭矣。
孝武钩弋赵婕妤，昭帝母也，家在河间。
武帝巡狩过河间，望气者言此有奇女，天子亟使使召之。
既至，女两手皆拳，上自披之，手即时伸。
由是得幸，号曰拳夫人。
先是，其父坐法宫刑，为中黄门，死长安，葬雍门。
拳夫人进为婕妤，居钩弋宫。
大有宠，太始三年生昭帝，号钩弋子。
任身十四月乃生，上曰： 闻昔尧十四月而生，今钩弋亦然。
乃命其所生门曰尧母门。
translation: 
A benevolent person does not need to swear an oath, so why do we need to swear an oath when treating relatives?
Even though you are gone forever, I still want to express my sincerity.
You left the bright world and went to the dark underworld. You came to the new palace and no longer went to the garden of the past.
It's so sad, I miss your soul all day long!
Later, Li Yannian's younger brother Li Ji was convicted of promiscuity in the harem, Li Guangli surrendered to the Huns, and the Li family was exterminated.
Zhao Jianzi, the Gouyi of Emperor Xiaowu, was the mother of Emperor Zhao and was originally from Hejian.
Emperor Wu was passing by the river on a parade. People who were good at watching the clouds said that there was a strange woman wrapped in it. Emperor Wu sent someone to summon her.
When she came, her hands were clenched into fists. Emperor Wu personally broke her hands, and they separated immediately.
So she got the favor of Emperor Wu and was called Mrs. Quan.
It turned out that her father broke the law and was sentenced to castration, so he became a member of Zhonghuangmen. He died in Chang'an and was buried in Yongmen.
Mrs. Quan was promoted to Jianzi and lived in Gouyi Palace, where she was very favored.
In the third year of Taishi, she gave birth to Emperor Zhao, and the child was called Gou Yizi.
She was fourteen months pregnant before the child was born. Emperor Wu said: I heard that Yao was born in fourteen months of pregnancy in the past, and now Mrs. Gou Yi also gave birth to such a son.
The gate of the palace where the child was born was called Yao Mu Gate.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
后卫太子败，而燕王旦、广陵王胥多过失，宠姬王夫人男齐怀王、李夫人男昌邑哀王皆蚤薨，钩弋子年五六岁，壮大多知，上常言 类我 ，又感其生与众异，甚奇爱之，心欲立焉，以其年稚母少，恐女主颛恣乱国家，犹与久之。
钩弋婕妤从幸甘泉，有过见谴，以忧死，因葬云阳。
后上疾病，乃立钩弋子为皇太子。
拜奉车都尉霍光为大司马大将军，辅少主。
明日，帝崩。
昭帝即位，追尊钩弋婕妤为皇太后，发卒二万人起云陵，邑三千户。
追尊外祖赵父为顺成侯，诏右扶风置园邑二百家，长丞奉守如法。
顺成侯有姊君姁，赐钱二百万，奴婢第宅以充实焉。
诸昆弟各以亲疏受赏赐。
赵氏无在位者，唯赵父追封。
孝昭上官皇后。
祖父桀，陇西人邽人也。
translation: 
Later, Crown Prince Wei was defeated. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling often did wrong things. King Qi Huai, son of the doting Queen, and King Ai of Changyi, son of Mrs. Li, both died early. When Gou Yizi was five or six years old, he was born with a great body and very smart. Emperor Wu often said: "Like me" , and felt that his birth was different from others, so he loved him especially, and planned to make him the prince. And because he was young and his mother was young, he was worried that the heroine's dictatorship would cause chaos in the country again, so he always hesitated.
Gou Yi Jiandan followed Emperor Wu to Ganquan Palace. He made a small mistake and was scolded by Emperor Wu. As a result, he died of fear and was buried in Yunyang.
Later, Emperor Wu became seriously ill and appointed Gou Yizi as the crown prince.
He also named Huo Guang, the captain of Fengche, as the Great Sima General and asked him to assist the young monarch.
The next day, Emperor Wu died.
After Emperor Zhao ascended the throne, he honored Gou Yi's nephew as the empress dowager, sent 20,000 soldiers to build Yunling Tomb, and set up 3,000 families to guard the mausoleum.
He also honored his maternal grandfather, Father Zhao, as the Marquis of Shuncheng, and issued an edict to set up a cemetery and 200 households in Youfufeng, and set up a Changcheng to guard it in accordance with the law.
Marquis Shuncheng had a sister named Junju, and he rewarded her with two million yuan, slaves and a house.
The brothers of Marquis Shuncheng each gave rewards according to their closeness.
There was no official in the Zhao family, only Zhao Jiantun's father was forced to become a marquis.
Emperor Xiaozhao and Queen Shangguan.
Her grandfather Shangguan Jie was from Shangbang in Longxi.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
少时为羽林期门郎，从武帝上甘泉，天大风，车不得行，解盖授桀。
桀奉盖，虽风常属车；雨下，盖辄御。
上奇其材力，迁未央厩令。
上尝体不安，及愈，见马，马多瘦，上大怒： 令以我不复见马邪！
欲下吏，桀顿道曰： 臣闻圣体不安，日夜忧惧，意诚不在马。
言未卒，泣数行下。
上以为忠，由是亲近，为侍中，稍迁至太仆。
武帝疾病，以霍光为大将军，太仆桀为左将军，皆受遗诏辅少主。
以前捕斩反者莽通功，封桀为安阳侯。
初，桀子安取霍光女，结婚相亲，光每休沐出，桀常代光入决事。
昭帝始立，年八岁，帝长姊鄂邑盖长公主居禁中，共养帝。
盖主私近子客河间丁外人。
translation: 
When he was young, he was a disciple of the Yulin period and followed Emperor Wu to Ganquan Palace. When there was a strong wind and the car could not move forward, he took off the hood and let Shangguan Jie hold it.
Shangguan Jie held the hood of the car, but despite the strong wind, he was not dropped by the car. Soon it started to rain, so he used the hood to protect Emperor Wu from the rain.
Emperor Wu admired his bravery very much and promoted him to Weiyang Stable Order.
Emperor Wu was not feeling well. After he recovered, he went to see the horses and found that most of the horses had lost weight. Emperor Wu was furious and said: "Do you think I will never see these horses again?"
Wanting to punish him, Shangguan Jie kowtowed and said, "I heard that the emperor was unwell, so I worried about you day and night. How could I care about watching the horses?"
Before he finished speaking, tears fell one after another.
Emperor Wu thought that he was very loyal to him, so he trusted him very much and made him a servant, and gradually he was promoted to a servant.
Emperor Wu was seriously ill and made Huo Guang the general and his servant Shangguan Jie the general of the left. They both accepted the imperial edict to assist the young master.
Because of his meritorious service in the previous killing of Mang Tong, Shangguan Jie was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang.
At the beginning, Shangguan Jie's son Shangguan An married Huo Guang's daughter, and the two families were married and had a close relationship. Whenever Huo Guang went out on vacation, Shangguan Jie often handled state affairs on his behalf.
Emperor Zhao was only eight years old when he came to the throne. His sister, Princess Egai, lived in the palace and raised Hantong.
The princess and the retainer of Gaibao had an affair artificially.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
上与大将军闻之，不绝主欢，有诏外人侍长主。
长主内周阳氏女，令配耦帝。
时上官安有女，即霍光外孙，安因光欲内之。
光以为尚幼，不听。
安素与丁外人善，说外人曰： 闻长主内女，安子容貌端正，诚因长主时得入为后，以臣父子在朝而有椒房之重，成之在于足下，汉家故事常以列侯尚主，足下何忧不封侯乎？
外人喜，言于长主。长主以为然，诏召安女入为婕妤，安为骑都尉。
月余，遂立为皇后，年甫六岁。
安以后父封桑乐侯，食邑千五百户，迁车骑将军，日以骄淫。
受赐殿中，出对宾客言： 与我婿饮，大乐！
translation: 
When Hantong and General Tingguang heard about this, they did not want to break off the princess's affair, so they issued an edict and ordered Gong Xicong to serve the princess.
The princess selected a girl from the Zhou Yang family and brought her to the palace, betrothing her to Emperor Zhao.
It happened that Shangguan An also had a daughter, Huo Guang's granddaughter, so Shangguan An persuaded Huo Guang to send this granddaughter to the palace.
Huo Guang thought the child was still young, so he didn't agree.
Shangguan An was always very close to Ding, so he went to persuade Ding: "I heard that the eldest princess wants to select a girl to enter the palace. My daughter has a good appearance. If you can take advantage of the opportunity of the eldest princess to choose a girl to enter the palace, you can enter the palace and become a queen. It will be all up to you to make us father and son officials in the court, and we have Jiao Fang to rely on. The old custom of the Han family is to let marquises marry princesses. Are you still worried about not being able to become a marquis?"
Foreigner Ding was very happy and told the princess about it. The princess thought it was very reasonable, so she went to Shao to let Shangguan An's daughter enter the palace as an envoy, and Shangguan An was granted the title of Cavalry Commander.
More than a month later, Shangguan was appointed queen. She was only six years old.
Because Shangguan An was the empress's father, he was granted the title of Marquis of Sangle, with a fief of 1,500 households. He was promoted to a general of chariots and cavalry, and he became increasingly arrogant and lewd.
He received the reward in the palace, and when he came out, he said to the guests: How happy it is to drink wine with my son-in-law!


Chunk 23: 
original: 
见其服饰，使人归，欲自烧物。
安醉则裸行内，与后母及父诸良人、侍御皆乱。
子病死，仰而骂天。
数守大将军光，为丁外人求侯，及桀欲妄官禄外人，光执正，皆不听。
又桀妻父所幸充国为太医监，阑入殿中，下狱当死。
冬月且尽，盖主为充国入马二十匹赎罪，乃得减死论。
于是桀、安父子深怨光而重德盖主。
知燕王旦帝兄，不得立，亦怨望，桀、安即记光过失予燕王，令上书告之，又为丁外人求侯。
燕王大喜，上书称： 子路丧姊，期而不除，孔子非之。
子路曰： 由不幸寡兄弟，不忍除之。
故曰 观过知仁 。今臣与陛下独有长公主为姊，陛下幸使丁外人侍之，外人宜蒙爵号。
translation: 
Show off the clothes you got, send someone to take them home and wrap them up, and plan to burn the offerings to the gods yourself.
When Shangguanan got drunk, he walked naked around the house and had sex with his stepmother and his father's concubines and maids.
His son died of illness, so he raised his head and cursed God.
He repeatedly asked Huo Guang to grant Ding foreigners the title of marquis, and Shangguan Jie also wanted to grant Ding foreigners an official title. Huo Guang acted impartially, but neither of them agreed.
In addition, Chongguo, who was favored by the father of Shangguan Jie's wife, was an eunuch physician. He ran to the palace without authorization and was caught and imprisoned. According to the law, he should be punished with death.
When the winter was about to end, the princess paid Chongguo twenty horses to atone for his crime, thus sparing him from the death penalty.
Therefore, Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An's father and son deeply resented Huo Guang, but were grateful to the princess for her kindness.
They learned that Emperor Zhao's brother, King Liu Dan of Yan, was also resentful because he was not established as emperor. Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An recorded Huo Guang's fault and told it to King Yan, asking him to write a letter to Emperor Zhao to report Huo Guang and ask for the title of Marquis on behalf of Ding.
The King of Yan was overjoyed and wrote a letter claiming: Zilu's sister died and he did not take off his mourning clothes even after the first anniversary. Confucius criticized him.
Zilu said: Unfortunately, I have no brothers, so I cannot bear to take off the mourning clothes I wore for my sister.
Therefore, you can tell whether a person is benevolent or not by looking at his faults. Now your Majesty and I only have one sister, the eldest princess. Your Majesty has graciously asked Ding Weiren to serve the princess, and Ding Weiren should be given a title of reward.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
书奏，上以问光，光执不许。
及告光罪过，上又疑之，愈亲光而疏桀、安。
桀安浸恚，遂结党与谋杀光，诱征燕王至而诛之，因废帝而立桀。
或曰： 当如皇后何？
安曰： 逐麋之狗，当顾菟邪！
且用皇后为尊，一旦人主意有所移，虽欲为家人亦不可得，此百世之一时也。
事发觉，燕王、盖主皆自杀。
语在《霍光传》。
桀、安宗族既灭，皇后以年少不与谋，亦光外孙，故得不废。
皇后母前死，葬茂陵郭东，追尊曰敬夫人，置园邑二百家，长丞奉守如法。
皇后自使私奴婢守桀、安冢。
光欲皇后擅宠有子，帝时体不安，左右及医皆阿意，言宜禁内，虽宫人使令皆为穷裤，多其带，后宫莫有进者。
translation: 
After the memorial was presented, Emperor Zhao asked Huo Guang for his opinion, but Huo Guang insisted that he disagreed.
When King Yan wrote another letter accusing Huo Guang of being guilty, Emperor Zhao became more suspicious. He became closer to Huo Guang and alienated Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An.
Shangguan father and son gradually became angry from shame, so they secretly gathered their party members to plot to kill Huo Guang, tricked King Yan into coming to Beijing to kill Huo Guang, and then deposed Emperor Zhao and established Shangguan Jie as emperor.
Someone said: What can the queen do?
Shangguan An said: Can a hunting dog chasing a moose care about a little rabbit?
Moreover, relying on the queen to obtain the honorable position, once the emperor changes his mind, it is impossible to become a commoner. This is true no matter what dynasty.
After the incident was revealed, both King Yan and Princess Gai committed suicide.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Huo Guang".
Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An's father and son were exterminated. The queen was young and did not participate in the rebellion. She was Huo Guang's granddaughter, so she was not deposed.
The queen's mother had died before that and was buried to the east of Maolingguo. She was given the honorific title Lady Jing, and a cemetery and 200 households were set up.
The queen sent her slaves to guard the tombs of Shangguan Jie and Shangguan An.
Huo Guang hoped that the queen would be pampered and give birth to a son. Emperor Zhao was often in poor health. The waiters and medical officers around him all agreed with Huo Guang and said that desires should be controlled. Even the maids ordered them to wear crotchless pants and many belts, so no women in the harem could enter the palace.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
皇后立十岁而昭帝崩，后年十四五云。
昌邑王贺征即位，尊皇后为皇太后。
光与太后共废王贺，立孝宣帝。
宣帝好位，为太皇太后。
凡立四十七年，年五十二，建昭二年崩，合葬平陵。
卫太子史良娣，宣帝祖母也。
太子有妃，有良娣，有孺子，妻、妾凡三等，子皆称皇孙。
史良娣家本鲁国，有母贞君，史恭。
以元鼎四年人为良娣，生男进，号史皇孙。
武帝末，巫蛊事起，卫太子及良娣、史皇孙皆遭害。
史皇孙有一男，号皇曾孙，时生数月，犹坐太子系狱，积五岁乃遭赦。
治狱使者邴吉怜皇曾孙无所归，载以付史恭。
恭母贞君年老，见孙孤，甚哀之，自养视焉。
后曾孙收养于掖庭，遂登至尊位，是为宣帝。
而贞君及恭已死，恭三子皆以旧恩封。
长子高为乐陵侯，曾为将陵侯，玄为平台侯，及高子丹以功德封武阳侯，侯者凡四人。
高至大司马车骑将军，丹左将军，自有传。
translation: 
In the tenth year after Queen Shangguan was enthroned, Emperor Zhao died. The queen is only fourteen or fifteen years old.
Liu He, the king of Changyi, was summoned to become the emperor, and Queen Shangguan was honored as the empress dowager.
Later, Huo Guang and the Queen Mother deposed Liu He and established Emperor Xiaoxuan instead.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, the Queen Mother became the Empress Dowager.
Shangguan reigned for a total of forty-seven years. She died at the age of fifty-two in the second year of Jianzhao, and she and Emperor Zhao were buried together in Pingling.
Shi Liangdi, the crown prince of Wei, was the grandmother of Emperor Xuan.
The prince has concubines, concubines, and children. The wives and concubines are divided into three levels, and the sons are called the emperor's grandchildren.
Shi Liangdi was originally from the state of Lu. Her mother was named Zhenjun and her brother was named Shi Gong.
In the fourth year of Yuanding, Shi entered the palace and became the crown prince Liangdi. She gave birth to a son, Liu Jin, who was called the grandson of Emperor Shi.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, a witchcraft disaster occurred, and Prince Wei, Liang Di, and Emperor Shi's grandson were all killed.
Shi Huangsun had a son, called Huang great-grandson, who was just a few months old at the time. He was also implicated by the prince and imprisoned. He was not pardoned until he was five years old.
Bing Ji, the envoy in charge of the prison, took pity on the emperor's great-grandson and gave him to Shi Gong to raise him.
Shi Gong's mother, Zhenjun, was old. Seeing the child alone, she felt very sad, so she took care of the child herself.
Later, the great-grandson of the emperor was adopted in Yeting and became emperor again, namely Emperor Xuan.
At this time Zhenjun and Shi Gong had passed away, and Shi Gong's three sons were all rewarded for their old kindness.
The eldest son Shi Gao was granted the title of Marquis of Leling, Shi Zeng was granted the title of Marquis of General Ling, and Shi Xuan was granted the title of Marquis of Platform. When Shi Gao's son Shi Dan was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang due to his merit and virtue, there were four people in the Shi family who were granted the title of marquis.
Shi Gaoguan was promoted to the Great Sima Cavalry General, and Shi Dan was promoted to Zuo General. They each have their own biographies.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
史皇孙王夫人，宣帝母也，名翁须，太始中得幸于史皇孙。
皇孙妻、帝无号位，皆称家人子。
征和二年，生宣帝。
帝生数月，卫太子、皇孙败，家人子皆坐诛，莫有收葬者，唯宣帝得全。
即尊位后，追尊母王夫人谥曰悼后，祖母史良娣曰戾后，皆改葬，起园邑，长丞奉守。
语在《戾太子传》。
地节三年，求得外祖母王媪，媪男无故，无故弟武皆随使者诣阙。
时乘黄牛车，故百姓谓之黄牛妪。
初，上即位，数遣使者求外家。久远，多似类而非是。
既得王媪，令太中大夫任宣与丞相御史属杂考问乡里识知者，皆曰王妪。
妪言名妄人，家本涿郡蠡吾平乡。
年十四嫁为同乡王更得妻。
translation: 
Mrs. Wang Sun, Emperor Xuan's mother, was named Wengxu. She was favored by Sun Huang during the Taishi period.
The wives and concubines of the emperor's grandson have no names and are all called family members.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Wengxu gave birth to Emperor Xuan.
Only a few months after Emperor Xuan was born, Crown Prince Wei and Emperor Shi's grandson were defeated, and all their family members were implicated and killed. Their bodies could not be collected and buried. Only Emperor Xuan survived.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he honored his mother, Mrs. Wang, with the title of Mourning Queen, and his grandmother, Shi Liangdi, with the title of Mourning Queen. They were all reburied, a cemetery and a family home were set up, and Chang Cheng guarded them.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Prince Ru."
In the third year of Dijie, Emperor Xuan found his grandmother Wang Yu. Wang Yu's son Wang Wuyou and Wuyou's younger brother Wang Wu both followed the envoys to the palace.
At that time, they were riding in a scalper's cart, so the people called Wang Lao the scalper woman.
At the beginning, after Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he sent envoys many times to find people in his grandmother's family. However, due to the passage of time, many people looked similar but were not.
After finding Wang Nu, he sent Taizhong doctor Ren Xuan and the officials under the Prime Minister and Yushi to ask people in the same town who knew her, and they all said she was Wang Nu.
Concubine Wang said that her name was Huanren and that she was originally from Liwuping Township, Zhuo County.
When she was fourteen years old, she married the king of her hometown, Geng.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
更得死，嫁为广望王虒始妇，产子男无故、武，女翁须，翁须年八九岁时，寄居广望节侯子刘仲卿宅，仲卿谓虒始曰： 予我翁须，自养长之。
媪为翁须作缣单衣，送仲卿家。
仲卿教翁须歌舞，往来归取冬夏衣。
居四五岁，翁须来言： 邯郸贾长皃求歌舞者，仲卿欲以我与之。
媪即与翁须逃走，之平乡。
仲卿载虒始共求媪，媪惶急，将翁须归，曰： 儿居君家，非受一钱也，奈何欲予它人？
仲卿诈曰： 不也。
后数日，翁须乘长皃车马过门，呼曰： 我果见行，当之柳宿。
媪与虒即之柳宿，见翁须相对涕泣，谓曰： 我欲为汝自言。
翁须曰： 母置之，何家不可以居？
自言无益也。
媪与虒始还求钱用，随逐至中山卢奴，见翁须与歌舞等比五人同处，媪与翁须共宿。
明日，虒始留视翁须，媪还求钱，欲随至邯郸。
媪归，粜买未具，虒始来归曰： 翁须已去，我无钱用随也。
因绝至今，不闻其问。
贾长皃妻贞及从者师遂辞： 往二十岁，太子舍人侯明从长安来求歌舞者，请翁须等五人。
translation: 
Even more so after death. She married King Guangwang Naishi and gave birth to sons Wang Wuyou, Wang Wu and daughter Wengxu. When Wengxu was eight or nine years old, she was fostered in the home of Liu Zhongqing, the son of Marquis Guangwangjie. Zhongqing said to Naishi, "Give Wengxu to me and I will help you raise her."
Wang Lao made spring and summer clothes for Weng Xu and sent them to Zhongqing's house.
Zhongqing taught Wengxu how to sing and dance. Wengxu came back several times to pick up winter and summer clothes.
Four or five years later, Weng Xu came back and said, "Jia Changer from Handan is looking for someone who can sing and dance, and Zhongqing wants to give me to him."
Wang Lao and Weng Xu fled together and arrived in Pingxiang.
Zhongqing took Nai Shi to look for Wang Lao. Wang Lao was very frightened, so she took Weng Xu back and said, "My daughter lives in your house and has not received any money. How can I give her to others?"
Zhongqing lied to her and said: No.
A few days later, Wengxu was sitting in Mai Changer's car and passed by the house. She shouted loudly: I have been sent away as expected, and I have to go to Liusu.
Wang Lao and Nai Shi arrived at Liusu. When they saw Weng Xuhou, they cried to each other and said to her: "We want to file a complaint for you."
Weng Xu said, "Forget it, mother. Which family can't live in it?"
Complaints are of no use.
Wang Yu and Naishi went back to collect money, and then followed them to Lunu, Zhongshan. They saw Weng Xu and several singing and dancing girls, a total of five people together. Wang Yu and Weng Xu slept together.
The next day, Naishi stayed there to take care of Wengxu. Wangla went back to get the money and planned to follow them to Handan.
After Wang Lao returned home, she had not prepared any money or supplies. Naishi came back and said, "Weng Xu has left. I have no money and cannot follow them."
So contact was severed and Weng Xu was never heard from again.
Jia Chang'er's wife Zhen and the singing and dancing teacher who followed Sui said in their confessions: Twenty years ago, the prince's minister Hou Ming came from Chang'an and wanted some singing and dancing girls, so he chose Weng Xu and five others.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
长皃使遂送至长安，皆入太子家。
及广望三老更始、刘仲卿妻其等四十五人辞，皆验。
宣奏王媪悼后母明白，上皆召见，赐无故、武爵关内侯，旬月间，赏赐以巨万计。
顷之，制诏御史赐外祖母号为博平君，以博平、蠡吾两县户万一千为汤沐邑。
封舅无故为平昌侯，武为乐昌侯，食邑各六千户。
初，虒始以本始四年病死，后三岁，家乃富贵，追赐谥曰思成侯。
诏涿郡治冢室，置园邑四百家，长丞奉守如法。
岁余，博平君薨，谥曰思成夫人，诏徙思成侯合葬奉明顾成庙南，置园邑长丞，罢涿郡思成园。
王氏侯者二人，无故子接为大司马车骑将军，而武子商至丞相，自有传。
孝宣许皇后，元帝母也。
父广汉，昌邑人，少时为昌邑王郎。
translation: 
Mai Changerrang then sent them to Chang'an, and they all entered the crown prince's womb.
There are also the testimonies of Guangwang Sanlao Gengshi, Liu Zhongqing's wife and other 45 people, which can be used as evidence.
Ren Xuan reported that Wang Yu was indeed the mother of the mourning queen. Emperor Xuan summoned them and rewarded Wang Yuangu and Wang Wu with the title of Marquis of Guannei, which lasted for several months, and rewarded them with a fortune of tens of thousands.
Soon after, he sent Shao to the censor, named his grandmother Lord Boping, and made Boping and Liwu counties her fief, including 11,000 households.
His uncle Wang Wu was granted the title of Marquis of Pinglu, and Wang Wu was granted the title of Marquis of Lechang. Each of the enfeoffed towns had 6,000 households.
It turned out that Wang Naishi died of illness in the fourth year of Benshi. Three years later, the family gained wealth and honor, and he was given the posthumous title of Marquis Sicheng.
An edict was issued to Zhuo County to build tombs, set up cemeteries and houses for 400 people, and asked Chang Cheng to observe them according to the law.
More than a year later, Mr. Boping passed away, and he was nicknamed Mrs. Sicheng. The imperial edict was issued to bury Sicheng Hou together with him to the south of Gucheng Temple in Qingdao, and to set up a cemetery, a family home and a Changcheng Palace, and to abolish the Sicheng Garden in Zhuo County.
Two people in the Wang family were granted the title of marquis. Wang Wuqi's son Wang Jie became the general of the Great Sima Cavalry, while Wang Wu's son Wang Shangguan became the prime minister. They all have their own biographies.
Empress Xu of Emperor Xiaoxuan was the mother of Wuhu.
Her father's name was Jiang Luxuan, a native of Dandan. When he was young, he worked for the king of Lu Yi.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
从武帝上甘泉，误取它郎鞍以被其马，发觉，吏劾从行而盗，当死，有诏募下蚕室。
后为宦者丞。
上官桀谋反时，广汉部索，其殿中庐有索长数尺可以缚入者数千枚，满一箧缄封，广汉索不得，它吏往得之。
广汉坐论为鬼薪，输掖庭，后为暴室啬夫。
时宣帝养于掖庭，号皇曾孙，与广汉同寺居。
时掖庭令张贺，本卫太子家吏，及太子败，贺坐下刑，以旧恩养视皇曾孙甚厚。
及曾孙壮大，贺欲以女孙妻之。
是时，昭帝始冠，长八尺二寸。
translation: 
Later, he followed Gen Xi to Ju Xingxuan and mistakenly put another man's saddle on his own horse. After he was discovered, the officials revealed that he had committed theft while traveling with the emperor. He should be sentenced to death. There was an edict ordering him to be castrated in the Jamshi room and avoid death.
Later he became a eunuch.
When Shangguan Jie rebelled, Guanghan searched for evidence of the crime. Shangguan Jie's palace house contained thousands of ropes that were several feet long and could be used to tie people up. They were packed in a sealed basket. Guanghan didn't notice it, but others saw it when they went there.
Guanghan was convicted again and was sentenced to prison and fined as hard labor. He was sent to Yeting and later became a miser.
At this time, Emperor Xuan was adopted in Yeting and was called the great-grandson of the emperor. He lived in the same official residence as Guanghan.
Zhang He, the order of Yeting, was originally a minor official in the family of Prince Wei. After the defeat of the crown prince, he was sentenced to castration. Because of his old kindness, he treated the emperor's great-grandson very well.
When the emperor's great-grandson grew up, Zhang He planned to marry his granddaughter to him.
At this time, Emperor Zhao had just turned twenty and was eight feet two inches tall.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
贺弟安世为右将军，与霍将军同心辅政，闻贺称誉皇曾孙，欲妻以女，安世怒曰： 曾孙乃卫太子后也，幸得以庶人衣食县官，足矣，勿复言予女事。
于是贺止。
时许广汉有女平君，年十四五，当为内者令欧侯氏子妇。
临当入，欧侯氏子死。
其母将行卜相，言当大贵，母独喜。
贺闻许啬夫有女，乃置酒请之，酒酣，为言： 曾孙体近，下人，乃关内侯，可妻也。 广汉许诺。
明日，妪闻之，怒。
广汉重令为介，遂与曾孙，一岁生元帝。
数月，曾孙立为帝，平君为婕妤。
是时，霍将军有小女，与皇太后有亲。
公卿议更立皇后，皆心仪霍将军女，亦未有言。
上乃诏求微时故剑，大臣知指，白立许婕妤为皇后。
既立，霍光以后父广汉刑人不宜君国，岁余乃封为昌成君。
霍光夫人显欲贵其小女，道无从。
明年，许皇后当娠，病。
女医淳于衍者，霍氏所爱，尝入宫侍皇后疾。
translation: 
Zhang He's younger brother Zhang Anshi served as the right general and worked with General Huo to assist Emperor Zhao. When he heard Zhang He praising the emperor's great-grandson and wanting to marry his granddaughter to him, he became angry and said: The emperor's great-grandson is a descendant of Prince Wei. He is fortunate enough to be supported by the court as a commoner. It is enough. Don't mention marrying his granddaughter to him.
Therefore Zhang He had to give up.
At that time, Xu Guanghan had a daughter named Pingjun, who was fourteen or fifteen years old. She was supposed to be the daughter-in-law of the concubine Ling Ouhou.
When it was time to get married, Ouhou's son died.
Her mother asked a fortune teller to tell her that she would be rich and wealthy, and her mother was secretly happy.
Zhang He heard that Xu Shifu had a daughter, so he held a banquet for him. When he was drinking well, he said, "The emperor's great-grandson is close relatives with the emperor. Even if his talents are inferior, he can still be a Marquis of Guannei. You can betroth your daughter to him as your wife."
Guangmo agreed. The next day, Pingjun's mother heard the news and was very angry.
But Guangmo hired someone to act as a matchmaker again, so he married his daughter to the emperor's great-grandson, and gave birth to Emperor Yuan a year later.
A few months later, the emperor's great-grandson was appointed emperor, and Lord Xu Ping was named Qizai.
At this time, General Huo also had a young daughter who was not married and was related to the Empress Dowager.
The ministers proposed to appoint a queen, and they all preferred General Huo's daughter, but no one spoke.
Emperor Xuan issued an edict to find an old sword he had owned when he was poor and humble. The ministers understood the emperor's intention and petitioned to appoint Xu Jianzi as queen.
After the queen was appointed, Huo Guang believed that the queen's father Xu Guangmo was a man who had been castrated and was not suitable for managing the place. It took more than a year before he named him Lord Changcheng.
Huo Guang's wife Huo Xian wanted to make her little daughter noble, but she couldn't think of a way.
The next year, Queen Xu fell ill when she was about to give birth.
The female doctor Chun Yuyan had a close relationship with the Huo family and once went to the palace to serve the queen.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
衍夫赏为掖庭户卫，谓衍： 可过辞霍夫人行，为我求安池监。
衍如言报显。
显因生心，辟左右，字谓衍： 少夫幸报我以事，我亦欲报少夫，可乎？
衍曰： 夫人所言，何等不可者！
显曰： 将军素爱小女成君，欲奇贵之，愿以累少夫。
衍曰： 何谓邪？
显曰： 妇人免乳大故，十死一生。
今皇后当免身，可因投毒药去也，成君即得为皇后矣。
如蒙力事成，富贵与少夫共之。
衍曰： 药杂治，当先尝，安宁？
显曰： 在少夫为之耳，将军领天下，谁敢言者？
缓急相护，但恐少夫无意耳！
衍良久曰： 愿尽力。
即捣附子，赍入长定宫。
皇后免身后，衍取附子并合大医大丸以饮皇后。
有顷曰： 我头岑岑也，药中得无有毒？
对曰： 无有。
遂加烦懑，崩。
衍出，过见显，相劳问，亦未敢重谢衍。
translation: 
Chunyu Yan's husband was appointed as a household guard in Yeting, and he said to Chunyu Yan, "Go and say goodbye to Mrs. Huo, and ask for the position of Anchi Supervisor for me."
Chunyu Yan told Huo Xian.
Huo Xian had an idea. He backed away and said to Chunyu Yan, "Young master, please ask me for something. I also want to ask you for help. Is that okay?"
Chunyu Yan said: There is nothing wrong with what Madam said!
Huo Xian said: The general has always loved his youngest daughter Chengjun. He hopes that she will be noble and wants to trouble the young husband.
Chunyu Yan said: What does this mean?
Huo Xian said: A woman's childbirth is a big event, and she will escape death.
Now that the queen is about to give birth, we can take this opportunity to throw poison to get rid of her, and Chengjun can become the queen.
If you are willing to work hard to accomplish this, I am willing to share the wealth with you, young husband.
Chunyu Yan said: The medicine was prepared by many imperial doctors, and others had to taste it first. How could it be poisoned?
Huo Xian said: "It depends on your ability, young master." The general is in charge of the world, who dares to say anything about him?
I will protect you in times of crisis, but I'm afraid you don't mean it.
Chunyu Yan thought for a long time and said: I am willing to do my best.
She pounded the aconite into powder and brought it into Changding Palace.
After the queen gave birth, Chun Yuyan took out aconite and mixed it with the imperial physician's pills, and served the queen to take them.
After a while, the queen said: I have a headache. Is the medicine poisonous?
Chunyu Yan replied: No.
The queen became even more depressed and restless, and finally died.
Chunyu Yan left the palace and met with Huo Xian. Huo Xian comforted her but did not dare to thank her heavily.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
后人有上书告诸医待疾无状者，皆收系诏狱，劾不道。
显恐急，即以状具语光，因曰： 既失计为之，无令吏急衍！
光惊鄂，默然不应。
其后奏上，署衍勿论。
许后立三年而崩，谥曰恭哀皇后，葬杜南，是为杜陵南园。
后五年，立皇太子，乃封太子外祖父昌成君广汉为平恩侯，位特进。
后四年，复封广汉两弟，舜为博望侯，延寿为乐成侯。
许氏侯者凡三人。
广汉薨，谥曰戴侯，无子，绝。
葬南园旁，置邑三百家，长丞奉守如法。
宣帝以延寿为大司马车骑将军，辅政。
元帝即位，复封延寿中子嘉为平恩侯，奉戴侯后，亦为大司马、车骑将军。
孝宣霍皇后，大司马、大将军，博陆侯光女也。
translation: 
Later, someone wrote a letter accusing the doctors of being useless in treating the queen, so they were imprisoned in Shao County to expose their treasonous crimes.
Huo Xian was afraid that the matter would be exposed, so he told Huo Guang everything about the incident, and said: Since this matter has been done wrongly, you should find a way to prevent the officials from questioning Chunyu Yan.
Huo Guang was stunned after hearing this and could not say a word.
Then he went to petition the emperor not to hold Chunyu Yan responsible anymore.
Queen Xu died three years after she was made queen. She was named Queen Gongai and was buried in Dunan, also known as Duling South Garden.
Five years later, she made her son the crown prince, and made the crown prince's grandfather, Changchengjun Xu Guanghan, the Marquis of Ping'en, granting him special advancement.
Four years later, Xu Guangmo's two younger brothers were also granted the title of Xu Shun as Bowang Marquis and Xu Yanshou as Lecheng Marquis.
There are three people in the Xu family who have been granted the title of marquis.
After Xu Guanghan's death, Mi was given the title Marquis of Dai. He had no sons, so the title was discontinued.
He was buried next to the South Garden, and three hundred households were set up. The chief of the garden and the chief minister were set up to guard and sweep in accordance with the law.
Emperor Xuan granted Xu Yanshou the title of Chief Chariot and Cavalry General to assist in government affairs.
After Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he also named Xu Yanshou's middle son Xu Jia the title of Marquis of Ping'en. After inheriting the title of Marquis Dai, he also became the Great Sima Cavalry General.
Empress Huo of Emperor Xiaoxuan was the daughter of Sima General Bolu Hou Huo Guang.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
母显，即使淳于衍阴杀许后，显因为成君衣补，治入宫具，劝光内之，果立为皇后。
初，许后起微贱，登至尊日浅，从官车服甚节俭，五日一朝皇太后于长乐宫，亲奉案上食，以妇道共养。
及霍后立，亦修许后故事。而皇太后亲霍后之姊子，故常竦体，敬而礼之。
皇后轝驾侍从甚盛，赏赐官属以千万计，与许后时县绝矣。
上亦宠之，颛房燕。
立三岁而光薨。
后一岁，上立许后男为太子，昌成君者为平恩侯。
显怒恚不食，呕血，曰： 此乃民间时子，安得立？
即后有子，反为王邪！
复教皇后令毒太子。
皇后数召太子赐食，保阿辄先尝之，后挟毒不得行。
后杀许后事颇泄，显遂与诸婿昆弟谋反，发觉，谐诛灭。
使有司赐皇后策曰： 皇后荧惑失道，怀不德，挟毒与母博陆宣成侯夫人显谋欲危太子，无人母之恩，不宜奉宗庙衣服，不可以承天命。
其退避宫，上玺绶有司。
霍后立五年，废处昭台宫。
后十二岁，徙云林馆，乃自杀，葬昆吾亭东。
translation: 
Queen Huo's mother, Huo Xian, sent Chunyu Yan to kill Queen Xu secretly. Then she made Chengjun's wedding clothes, prepared the tools for entering the palace, and persuaded Huo Guang to send his daughter to the palace. Sure enough, Chengjun was appointed queen.
At the beginning, Empress Xu was from a humble background, and her time as empress was very short. Her servants, drivers, and attire were all very frugal. She went to Changle Palace to see the Empress Dowager every five days, and personally held a food table to offer food to the Empress Dowager, as a filial piety to her granddaughter-in-law.
When I arrived at Queen Huo, I also followed the old practices of Queen Xu. However, the Queen Mother was the daughter of Queen Huo's sister, so she was always cautious and respected her very much.
The queen's chariots and horses were very impressive, and she rewarded her subordinates with tens of millions of dollars, which was very different from that of Queen Xu.
Emperor Xuan also doted on her very much, and Queen Yuzu was the only one who was good at doting on her.
In the third year after Queen Huo was enshrined, Huo Guang passed away.
Another year later, Emperor Xuan appointed Queen Xu's son as the prince, and granted Chang Chengjun the title of Ping'enhou.
Huo Xian was so angry that he couldn't eat and even vomited blood. He said, "This is a child born in the common people. How can he be made a prince?"
If the queen gives birth to a son, can she only become the king?
She also instructed Queen Huo to poison the prince.
The queen summoned the prince many times to give him food, but the nanny always tasted it first, and the queen hid poison but could not use it.
Later, the murder of Queen Xu was gradually leaked out, and Huo Xian conspired with his son-in-law and his children. The plot was leaked, and Emperor Xuan had the Huo family wiped out.
He also sent a secretary to give the queen a document, saying: The queen has evil intentions and evil intentions. She conspired with her mother, Huo Xian, the wife of Hou Xuancheng and Bo Lu, to harm the prince. She has no kindness as a mother and is not suitable to worship the ancestors anymore, let alone accept the destiny. well!
He should retreat to the cold palace and return his seal and ribbon.
Queen Huo reigned for five years and was deposed and took refuge in Zhaotai Palace.
Twelve years later, when Huo was asked to move to Yunlin Pavilion, she committed suicide and was buried east of Kunwu Pavilion.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
初，霍光及兄骠骑将军去病皆自以功伐封侯居位，宣帝以光故，封去病孙山、山弟云，皆为列侯，侯者前后四人。
孝宣王皇后。
其先高祖时有功赐爵关内侯，自沛徙长陵，传爵至后父奉光。
奉光少时好斗鸡，宣帝在民间数与奉光会，相识。
奉光有女年十余岁，每当适人，所当适辄死，故久不行。
及宣帝即位，召入后宫，稍进为婕妤。
是时，馆陶王母华婕妤及淮阳宪王母张婕妤、楚孝王母卫婕妤皆爱幸。
霍皇后废后，上怜许太子蚤失母，几为霍氏所害，于是乃选后宫素谨慎而无子者，遂立王婕妤为皇后，令母养太子。
自为后后，希见，无宠。
封父奉光为邛成侯。
立十六年，宣帝崩，元帝即位，为皇太后。
封太后兄舜为安平侯。
translation: 
At first, Huo Guang and his brother Huo Qubing, the cavalry general, were both granted the title of marquis for their merits. Because of Huo Guang, Emperor Xuan made Huo Qubing's grandson Huo Shan and Huo Shan's younger brother Huo Yun both marquises. There were four people in the Huo family who were granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Xiaoxuan and Queen.
Queen Wang's ancestors were given the title of Marquis of Guannei due to their merit during Emperor Gaozu's reign, and they moved from Pei to Changling. The title was passed down to the Queen's father, Wang Fengguan.
Wang Fengguan liked cockfighting when he was young. Emperor Xuan met him many times when he was among the people and got to know each other.
Fengguang has a teenage daughter. Whenever she wants to get married, the other party always dies, so she has not been able to get married for a long time.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he summoned Fengguang's daughter into the harem and was gradually promoted to Jianxian.
At this time, Hua Jianzai, the mother of King Guantao, Zhang Jiandan, the mother of King Xian of Huaiyang, and Wei Jianzai, the mother of King Xiao of Chu, were all deeply favored by Emperor Xuan.
After Queen Huo was deposed, Emperor Xuan took pity on Prince Xu who lost his mother very early and was almost killed by the Huo family. Therefore, he selected people in the harem who were usually cautious and had no children.
Since Queen Wang became the queen, she was rarely summoned by the emperor and was not favored.
Emperor Xuan made the queen's father Wang Fengguan the Marquis of Qiongcheng.
In the sixteenth year after Queen Wang was enthroned, Emperor Xuan died, Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, and Queen Wang became the empress dowager.
Emperor Yuan granted the Queen Mother's brother Wang Shun the title of Marquis of Anping.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
后二年，奉光薨，谥曰共侯，葬长门南，置园邑二百家，长丞奉守如法。
元帝崩，成帝即位，为太皇太后。
复爵太皇太后弟骏为关内侯，食邑千户。
王氏列侯二人，关内侯一人。
舜子章，章从弟咸，皆至左右将军。
时成帝母亦姓王氏，故世号太皇太后为邛成太后。
邛成太后凡立四十九年，年七十余，永始元年崩，合葬杜陵，称东园。
奉光孙勋坐法免。
元始中，成帝太后下诏曰： 孝宣王皇后，朕之姑，深念奉质共修之义，恩结于心。
惟邛成共侯国废祀绝，朕甚闵焉。其封共侯曾孙坚固为邛成侯。
至王莽乃绝。
translation: 
Two years later, Wang Fengguang died. Mi was named Gonghou and was buried south of Changmen. A cemetery and 200 households were set up, and Chang Cheng was ordered to guard it according to the law.
After Emperor Yuan died and Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, the Queen Mother became the Empress Dowager.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Guannei to Wang Jun, the younger brother of the Empress Dowager, and granted him the title of a thousand households.
Two members of the Wang family were named marquis, and one was named Guannei marquis.
Wang Shun's son Wang Zhang and Wang Zhang's cousin Wang Xian both served as generals.
At that time, Emperor Cheng's mother was also named Wang, so the Empress Dowager was known as Empress Dowager Qiongcheng.
Empress Dowager Qiongcheng reigned for forty-nine years. She died in her seventies in the first year of Yongshi. She was buried with Emperor Xuan in Duling, called Shuyuan.
Wang Fengguan's grandson Wang Xun broke the law and was deprived of his title.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the Empress Dowager of Emperor Cheng issued an edict, saying: The Queen Mother of Emperor Xiaoxuan is my mother-in-law. I deeply miss her upbringing and teaching, and I will keep her kindness in my heart.
However, the title of Gonghou of Qiongcheng was abolished. I felt very sorry for him, so I named Wang Jianhou, the great-grandson of Gonghou, as the Marquis of Qiongcheng.
This title was not abolished until Wang Mang.


