Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 14, 12, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔者元胎无象，太素流形，对越在天，以为元首，则《记》所谓冬居营窟，夏居橧巢，饮血茹毛，未有麻丝者也。
及燧人钻火，庖牺出震，风宗下武，炎胤昌基，画野无闻，其归一揆。
黄帝则东海南江，登空蹑岱，至于昆峰振辔，崆山防道，存诸汗竹，不可厚诬。
高阳任地依神，帝喾顺天行义。
东逾蟠木，西济流沙，北至幽陵，南抚交址，日月所经，舟车所至，莫匪王臣，不逾兹域。
帝尧时，禹平水土，以为九州。
translation: 
In ancient times, primitive things had no external image. The various substances that made up the universe matched and matched with heaven and became the beginning of all things. As it is said in the "Records", they lived in caves and earthen chambers in winter, and in summer they lived in nests built with firewood, eating hair and drinking blood, without any coverings such as linen or silk.
至于燧人氏钻木取火，庖牺氏始画八卦，女娲氏断鳖足以立四极，炎帝神农氏发展农业，分划疆域，逭一切都是同一道理。
The Yellow Emperor reached the seaside in the east, reached the Yangtze River in the south, and climbed Mount Daiyue in the Kongshan Mountains. Things such as his riding horses in the Kunlun Mountains and his search for the best path in the Kongtong Mountains have been recorded in the annals of history and cannot deceive future generations.
Zhuanxu's Gaoyang family made everyone in the world have their own needs, and the emperor praised the Gaoxin family for following the way of heaven and practicing morality.
Crossing Panmu Mountain in the east, reaching Liusha in the west, starting from Youling in the north, and arriving at Jiaojun in the south. Wherever the moon shines, and the mountains and rivers that boats and cars reach, no one is not a subject of the monarch, and everywhere is the domain of the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Yao, Dayu controlled the land and water and divided the land into nine states.

summary:
summary line 0: It then traces the development of civilization through legendary figures: Suirenshi who drilled wood for fire, Paoxishi who created the eight trigrams, Nüwa who repaired the heavens, and Shennong who developed agriculture and divided territories. The Yellow Emperor traveled extensively, reaching the eastern seaside, the Yangtze River in the south, and Mount Daiyue. Zhuanxu ensured everyone's needs were met, while the Gaoxin family followed heavenly ways. Emperor Yao's reign saw Dayu control floods and divide the land into nine provinces. Yu Shun formulated calendars, divided star districts, and established provinces including Bingzhou, Youzhou, and Yingzhou.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
虞舜登庸，厥功弥劭，表提类而分区宇，判山河而考疆域，冀北创并部之名，燕齐起幽营之号，则《书》所谓肇十有二州，封十有二山者也。
夏功在于唐尧，殷因无所损益。
周武克商，自丰徂镐。
至成王时，改作《禹贡》，徐梁入于青雍，冀野析于幽并。
职方掌天下之土，以周厥利；保章辩九州之野，皆有分星。
东南曰扬州，正南曰荆州，河南曰豫州，正东曰青州，河东曰兗州，正西曰雍州，东北曰幽州，河内曰冀州，正北曰并州。
始皇初并天下，惩战国，削罢列侯，分天下为三十六郡。
translation: 
Yu Shun ascended the throne and became king, and his achievements were even more outstanding. He formulated the calendar, divided the star districts, planned the boundaries of mountains and rivers, and inspected the territory in all directions. He established Bingzhou in northern Hebei and named the Yan and Qi areas as Youzhou and Yingzhou. This is what the Book of History says about the establishment of ten mountains and the establishment of twelve mountains.
夏朝的功业在于唐尧，殷朝沿袭夏曲没有增益减损。
且迭王灭茵，京城自丰迁往镐京。
到周成王时，改写《尚书禹贡》，徐州、凿业并入直、壅蛆，又从幽业、差赵中离析出冀州。
The official is in charge of the land of the world, so as to know the pros and cons of each place, so that each can find its proper place; the official Baozhang, who observes and records astronomy, distinguishes the divisions of the nine states, so that each has its corresponding star area.
The southeast is called Yangzhou, the due south is called Jingzhou, Henan is called Yuzhou, the due east is Qingzhou, the east of Hedong is called Yanzhou, the due west is Yongzhou, the northeast is called Youzhou, the north of the Yellow River is Jizhou, and the due north is called Bingzhou.
When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he learned lessons from the wars in the difficult period, abolished the princes and kings, and divided the world into thirty-six counties.

summary:
summary line 1: The text details the evolution of administrative divisions through successive dynasties. During the Xia and Shang dynasties, territorial systems were established and maintained. King Wu of Zhou moved the capital from Feng to Haojing. Under King Cheng of Zhou, the "Yu Gong" was revised, merging some provinces and dividing others. Officials were appointed to manage lands and observe astronomy, distinguishing the nine provinces with their corresponding star regions. The southeast was Yangzhou, due south was Jingzhou, Henan was Yuzhou, due east was Qingzhou, east of Hedong was Yanzhou, due west was Yongzhou, northeast was Youzhou, north of the Yellow River was Jizhou, and due north was Bingzhou.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
三川、河东、南阳、南郡、九江、鄣郡、会稽、颍川、砀郡、泗水、薛郡、东郡、琅邪、齐郡、上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东、代郡、钜鹿、邯郸、上党、太原、云中、九原、雁门、上郡、陇西、北地、汉中、巴郡、蜀郡、黔中、长沙、凡三十五郡，与内史为三十六郡也。
于是兴师逾江，平取百越，又置闽中、南海、桂林、象郡，凡四十郡，郡一守焉。
其他则西临洮而北沙漠，东萦西带，皆临大海。
汉祖龙兴，革秦之弊，分内史为三部，更置郡国二十有三，桂阳、江夏、豫章、河内、魏郡、东海、楚国、平原、梁国、定襄、泰山、汝南、淮阳、千乘、东莱、燕国、清河、信都、常山、中山、渤海、广汉、涿郡，合二十三也。
三内史者，河上、渭南、中地也。
《地理志》曰：高祖增二十六，武帝改河上、渭南、中地以为京兆、冯翊、扶风是为三辅也。
文增厥九，广平、城阳、淄川、济南、胶西、胶东、河间、庐江、衡山、武帝改衡山曰六安。
景加其四。
济北、济阴、山阳、北海也。
宣改济北曰东平。
武帝开越攘胡，初置十七，南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、交耻、九真、日南、珠崖、儋耳九郡，平西南夷置牂柯、越嵩、沈黎、汶山、犍为、益州六郡，西置武都郡，又分立零陵郡，合十七郡。
拓土分疆，又增十四。
弘农、临淮、西河、朔方、酒泉、陈留、安定、天水、玄菟、乐浪、广陵、敦煌、武威、张掖。
昭帝少事，又增其一。
金城也。
至平帝元始二年，凡新置郡国七十有一，与秦四十，合一百一十有一。
translation: 
Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, Zhangjun, Kuaiji, Yingchuan, Dangjun, Sishui, Xuejun, Dongjun, Langye, Qijun, Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoning West, Liaodong, Daijun, Julu, Handan, Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Jiuyuan, Yanmen, Shangjun, Longxi, Beidi, Hanzhong, Bajun, Shujun, Qianzhong, Changsha? There are thirty-five counties in total, and the capital under the jurisdiction of Yu Neishi has a total of thirty-six counties.
Then the army was sent across the Yangtze River to capture the land where Baiqi was pacified. He also established Minzhong, Nanhai, Guilin and Xiangjun, a total of forty counties, each with one county guard.
In the Qin Dynasty, the territory reached Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the western belt around it, all facing the sea.
Mozhibi established a new dynasty, eradicated the shortcomings of the Taiwan system, divided the Gyeonggi region into three parts, and added 23 counties, Guiyang, Jiangxia, Yuzhang, Hanoi, Weijun, Donghai, Chu Guo, Pingyuan, Liangguo, Dingxiang, Taishan, Runan, Huaiyang, Qiancheng, Donglai, Yanguo, Qinghe, Xindu, Changshan, Zhongshan, Bohai, Guanghan, and Zhuojun, a total of twenty-three counties.
The internal history is divided into three parts: Hui Shang, Hui Mu and Shi Si.
"Hanshu Geography" says: On the 26th day of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Wu changed the names of Heshang, Weinan and Zhongdi to Jingzhao, Yufeng Yi and Fufeng. This is the Sanfu area.
Emperor Yiwen added nine counties, Guangping, Chengyang, Zichuan, Jinan, Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Hejian, Lujiang, and Hengshan? Emperor Wu changed the name of Hengshan to Liu'an.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty established four additional counties.
Jibei, Jiyin, Shanyang, Beihai.
Emperor Xuan changed the name of Jibei to Dongping.
When Emperor Wu entered Vietnam and opened up the Hu lands, he first established seventeen counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaoshi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhuya, and Dan'er. After pacifying the southwestern barbarians, six counties were established: Zangke, Yuesong, Shenli, Wenshan, Qianwei, and Yizhou. Wudu County was established in the west, and Lingling County was separated, for a total of seventeen counties.
Land was opened up to expand the territory, and fourteen more counties were added.
Hongnong, Linhuai, Xihe, Shuofang, Jiuquan, Chenliu, Anding, Tianshui, Xuantu, Lelang, Guangling, Dunhuang, Wuwei, Zhangye.
Emperor Zhao had fewer changes and established an additional county.
Jincheng.
By the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, there were 71 newly established counties in total, which together with the 40 counties of the Qin Dynasty, made a total of 111 counties.

summary:
summary line 2: When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he abolished the feudal princes and divided the empire into thirty-six counties, including Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, and others. The Qin territory extended to Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the sea in the east. After the Qin dynasty fell, the Han dynasty established new administrative systems. Emperor Gaozu of Han added twenty-three counties, while Emperor Wu established seventeen counties after conquering Vietnam and the Hu lands, and six more after pacifying the southwestern barbarians. By the second year of Emperor Ping's Yuanshi period, there were 111 counties total, divided into thirteen divisions including Liang, Yi, Jing, Yang, Qing, Yu, Yan, Xu, You, Bing, Ji, Jiaozhi, and Shuofang.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
省前汉八，分置五，改旧名七，因旧九十六，少前汉三也。
桓灵颇增于前，复置六郡。
桓，高阳、高凉、博陵；灵，南安、鄱阳、庐陵。
魏武定霸，三方鼎立，生宁版荡，关洛荒芜，所置者十二，新兴、乐平、西平、新平、略阳、阴平、带方、谯、乐陵、章武、南乡、襄阳。
所省者七，上郡、朔方、五原、云中、定襄、渔阳、庐江。
而文帝置七，朝歌、阳平、弋阳、魏兴、新城、义阳、安丰。
得汉郡者十有一焉。吴主大皇帝初置郡五，临贺、武昌、珠崖、新安、庐陵南部。
少帝、景帝各四，少，临川、临海、衡阳、湘东。
景，天门、建安、建平、合浦北部。
归命侯亦置十有二郡，始安、始兴、邵陵、安成、新昌、武平、九德、吴兴、东阳、桂林、荥阳、宜都。
得汉郡者十有八焉。
晋武帝太康元年，既平孙氏，凡增置郡国二十有三，荥阳、上洛、顿丘、临淮、东莞、襄城、汝阴、长广、广宁、昌黎、新野、随郡、阴平、义阳、毗陵、宣城、南康、晋安、宁浦、始平、咯阳、乐平、南平。
省司隶置司州，别立梁、秦、宁、平四州，仍吴之广州，凡十九州，司、冀、兗、豫、荆、徐、扬、青、幽、平、并、雍、凉、秦、梁、益、宁、交、广州。
郡国一百七十三，仍吴所置二十五，仍蜀新置十一，仍魏所置二十一，仍汉旧九十三，置二十三。
以为冠带之国，尽有殷周之土。
若乃敦庞于天地之始，昭晰于牺农之世，用长黎元，未争疆埸。
而玉环楛矢，夷裘风驾，南翚表贶，东风入律，光乎上德，奚远弗臻。
translation: 
The eight counties of Youmo were cancelled, and five counties were divided. Seven counties changed their old names, and ninety-six counties continued to use their old names, three counties less than those in the Western Han Dynasty.
Emperor Huan and Emperor Mo Ling of the Han Dynasty increased the number of counties compared with the previous dynasties and established six more counties.
Emperor Huan established Gaoyang, Gaoliang, and Bobi; Emperor Ling established Nan'an, Poyang, and Luling.
Emperor Wu of Wei dominated one area, and the three kingdoms of Wei, Shu and Wu were established. The people were in turmoil and displaced. The areas of Mengsheng and Piamo were deserted. Twelve counties were established: Xinxing, Leping, Xiping, Xinping, Lueyang, Yinping, Daifang, Qiao, Leling, Zhangwu, Nanxiang, and Xiangyang.
Cancel Shangjun, Shuofang, Wuyuan, Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Yuyang and Lujiang.
Emperor Wen established seven counties: Chaoge, Yangping, Yiyang, Weixing, Xincheng, Yiyang, and Anfeng.
During the Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, the First Lord of Shu established nine counties for the first time: Badong, Brazil, Zitong, Jiangyang, Wenshan, Hanjia, Zhuti, Danqu, and Fuling. Shu has eleven counties and counties in Qu. The Great Emperor Wu Zhu established five counties for the first time: Linhe, Wuchang, Zhuya, Xin'an, and southern Luling.
The Shao Di and Jing Di set up four counties, and the Shao Di set up Linchuan, Linhai, Hengyang and Xiangdong.
Emperor Jing established Tianmen, Jian'an, Jianping and the northern part of Hepu.
Yuleibao also has twelve counties, Shi'an, Shixing, Shaoling, Ancheng, Xinchang, Wuping, Jiude, Wuxing, Dongyang, Guilin, Xingyang, and Yidu.
It occupies eighteen counties of Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taikang, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, the power of the Sun family of Wu was pacified, and a total of twenty-three additional counties were added, including Xingyang, Shangluo, Dunqiu, Linhuai, Dongguan, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Changguang, Guangning, Changli, Xinye, Suijun, Yinping, Yiyang, Piling, Xuancheng, Nankang, Jin'an, Ningpu, Shiping, Geyang, Leping, and Nanping.
Seven counties were abolished and Sizhou was established, and four more states were established: Liangzhou, Qinzhou, Ningzhou, and Pingzhou. The name of Guangzhou of Wu State was used, and there were nineteen states in total: Si, Ji, Yan, Yu, Jing, Xu, Yang, Qing, You, Ping, Bing, Yong, Liang, Qin, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guangzhou.
There are one hundred and seventy-three counties, including twenty-five counties established by the Wu State, eleven newly established counties by the Shu State, and twenty-one counties established by the Wei State. The ninety-three old counties of the Han Dynasty were followed, and twenty-three counties were established.
In this way, it became a great civilized country and owned all the territories of Yin and Zhou.
As a result, it is more abundant than in the primitive era and more prominent than the achievements of Fuxi and Shennong. The purpose is to support the people of Li instead of competing for territory.
Those rings made of jade and arrows made of wood, the foreign furs and windy chariots, the flocks of southern birds patronizing us, the spring breeze harmonious with the smooth rhythms, the emperor's achievements are prosperous, everywhere.

summary:
summary line 3: The text describes how later dynasties continued to modify territorial divisions. During the Later Han, Emperor Guangwu merged eight counties due to population decline. Subsequent emperors added or changed various counties. During the Three Kingdoms period, Wei, Shu, and Wu each established new counties. By the first year of Taikang under Emperor Wu of Jin, after pacifying the Wu state, twenty-three additional counties were established, bringing the total to 173 counties across nineteen provinces. The text notes that this represented a great civilized country owning all territories of Yin and Zhou.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
天有七星，地有七表；天有四维，地有四渎。
八纮之外，名为八极。
地不足东南，天不足西北。
八极之广，东西二亿三万一千三百里，南北二亿三万一千三百里。
自地至天，半八极之数，自下亦如之。
昔黄帝令竖亥步自东极，至于西极，五亿十万九千八百八步。
史臣案，凡周天积百七万九百一十三里，径三十五万六千九百七十里。
所谓南北为经，东西为纬。
天有十二次，日月之所躔；地有十二辰，王侯之所国也。
或因生得姓，因功命土，祁、酉、燕、齐，在乎兹域。
昔黄帝旁行天下，方制万里，得百里之国万区，则《周易》所谓 首出庶物，万国咸宁 者也。
昔在帝尧，叶和万邦，制八家为邻，三邻为朋，三朋为里，五里为邑，十邑为都，十都为师，州十有二师焉。
translation: 
There are seven stars in the Big Dipper in the sky, and there are seven layers of earth on the earth. There are four corners in the sky, and there are four big rivers on the earth that flow eastward into the sea.
The farthest places in all directions are called Baji.
The terrain becomes lower in the southeast and the sky tilts toward the northwest.
Baji is vast, 203,1300 miles from east to west, and 203,1300 miles from north to south.
The distance from the earth to the sky is half the width of the eight poles, and the same is true from the ground to the ground.
Previously, Huangdi ordered Shuhai to measure the steps from Shuji to the West Pole, a total of 500,098,08 steps.
In the case of Shi Chen, the entire sky is 1,070,913 miles in total and 356,970 miles in diameter.
North and south are longitudes, and east and west are latitudes.
There are twelve times in the sky, which are the paths of the moon; there are twelve times in the earth, which are the areas where princes establish states.
Some states got their surnames from their ancestors' birthplaces, and some named their regions because of their achievements. Qi, You, Yan, and Qi are among these regions.
Previously, the Yellow Emperor traveled all over the world, governed thousands of miles, and gained nearly 10,000 countries with a radius of 100 miles. This is what the "Book of Changes" said: "Beyond the world, all nations will be at peace."
During the reign of Emperor Yao, many states were coordinated. The system was organized with eight families as neighbors, three neighbors as friends, three friends as li, five li as towns, ten towns as capitals, ten capitals as divisions, and one state had twelve divisions.

summary:
summary line 4: The document provides extensive detail on the geographical measurements and cosmological understanding of the ancient world. It describes the eight poles (Baji) as being 203,1300 miles from east to west and the same from north to south. The distance from earth to heaven was half the width of the eight poles. The text explains that there are seven stars in the Big Dipper and seven layers of earth, with four corners in the sky and four great rivers flowing eastward into the sea. The terrain becomes lower in the southeast while the sky tilts toward the northwest.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
一同百里，提封万井，除山川、坑岸、城池、邑居、园囿、街路三千六百井，定出赋六千四百井，戎马四百匹，兵车百乘，此卿大夫采地之大者也，是谓百乘之家。
一封三百六十六里，提封十万井，定出赋六万四千井，戎马四千匹，兵车千乘，此谓诸侯之大者也，谓之千乘之国。
天子畿内方千里，提封百万井，定出赋六十四万井，戎马四万匹，兵车万乘，戎卒七十二万人，故天子称万乘之主焉。
秦始皇既得志于天下，访周之败，以为处士横议，诸侯寻戈，四夷交侵，以弱见夺，于是削去五等焉。
汉兴，创艾亡秦孤立而败，于是割裂封疆，立爵二等，功臣侯者百有余邑。
于时民罹秦项，户口凋弊，大侯不过万家，小者五六百户，而尊王子弟，大启九国。
古者有分土而无分民，若乃大者跨州连郡，小则十有余城，以户口为差降，略封疆之远近，所谓分民自汉始也。
translation: 
A total of 10,000 wells with a radius of 100 li, excluding 3,600 wells including mountains, ravines, cities, towns, gardens, and streets. It is stipulated that there are 6,400 wells, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots to pay taxes. This is a family with more land under the Qing Dynasty, and it is called a 100-carriage home.
The area has a radius of 366 li, a total of 100,000 wells, and it is stipulated that there are 64,000 wells to pay taxes, 4,000 military horses, and military chariots. This is the most powerful among the princes, and it is called the country of thousands of chariots.
The emperor's kingdom has a radius of thousands of miles and a total of millions of wells. It is stipulated that the tax payers include 640,000 wells, 40,000 horses, 10,000 chariots, and 720,000 soldiers. Therefore, the emperor is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
After Qin Shihuang took control of the world, he looked for the reasons for the failure of the Gu Dynasty. He believed that it was due to the wanton discussion of the officials, the warlike feudal princes, and the mutual invasion of the barbarians. The Zhou royal family was eliminated due to its weakness, so the fifth-class titles were cancelled.
When the Han Dynasty arose, it accepted the lesson of Qin's isolation and defeat, so it divided the territory and established second-class titles. Meritorious officials were granted more than a hundred fiefs.
At that time, the people experienced the rule of the Qin Dynasty and the disputes between Chu and Hui. The population declined. There were only 10,000 households in the large feudal kingdoms and only 500 or 600 households in the small ones. Therefore, the Han Dynasty respected the children of the royal family and expanded the nine kingdoms extensively.
In ancient times, land was enfeoffed but not the population. As a result, large fiefdoms spanned states and counties, while small ones only had more than ten cities. The divisions were based on households and the distance of the land boundaries. The so-called division of people began with ridges.

summary:
summary line 5: The text extensively describes the feudal system established by various dynasties. Under the Xia dynasty, the territory was divided into five service zones (five fu) extending 5000 miles in radius. The system included Dianfu (imperial domain), Houfu (marquis domain), Suifu (submission domain), Yaofu (essential domain), and Huangfu (wilderness domain), each with specific tax and service requirements. The Zhou dynasty established five ranks of nobility—Duke, Marquis, Earl, Viscount, and Baron—with specific land allocations. The emperor's field was 1000 li in circumference, while dukes received 100 li, earls 70 li, and viscounts 50 li. The text notes that during the Zhou dynasty's peak, there were 13,714,933 people and no crimes were committed.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
五伯迭兴，总其盟会。
陵夷至于战国，遂有七王，韩、魏、赵、燕、齐、秦、楚。
又有宋、卫、中山，不断如线，如三晋篡夺，亦称孤也。
《司马法》广陈三代，曰：古者六尺为步，步百为亩，亩百为夫，夫三为屋，屋三为井。
井方一里，是为九夫，八家共之。
一夫一妇受私田百亩，公田十亩，是为八百八十亩，余二十亩为庐舍，出入相友，守望相助，疾病相救。
民受田，上田夫百亩，中田夫二百亩，下田夫三百亩，岁受耕之，爰自其处。
其家众男为余夫，亦以口受田如此。
士工商家受田，五口乃当农夫一口。
有赋有税，税谓公田什一及工商衡虞之入也，赋供车马甲兵士从之役。
民年二十受田，六十归田。
translation: 
The five hegemons are more prosperous and lead the alliance among the princes.
The royal family declined and during the Warring States Period, seven hegemons emerged: Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu.
There are also the Song, Wei, and Zhongshan dynasties, which are inseparable. For example, the three dynasties of Han, Zhao, and Wei were divided into the Jin Dynasty and each became king.
"Sima Law" extensively states the system of three ancient dynasties, which says: In ancient times, six feet was one step, one hundred steps was one acre, one hundred acres was one husband, three husbands was one house, and three houses was one well field.
The well field is one mile vertically and horizontally, which is Jiufu, and is jointly owned by eight families.
Each couple received 100 acres of private land and 10 acres of public land, for a total of 880 acres for eight families. The remaining 20 acres were land occupied by thatched cottages. Families in the same field cared for each other, helped neighbors, and rescued each other in case of illness or disaster.
The people received land, each farmer had one hundred acres of good land, two hundred acres of medium land, and three hundred acres of low-grade land. They would cultivate the land every year and arrange their own rotation.
The farmer who received the field, and the other men in the family who were the remaining husbands, also received the field according to their number.
Land was distributed among the families of scholars, workers and merchants, and five people were equal to one farmer.
There is a tax and a tax. The tax refers to one-tenth of the output of the farmer's public land. Craftsmen, merchants, and hengyu who manage the mountains and rivers pay their respective profits and products. The tax refers to the provision of chariots, horses, weapons, and the service of soldiers.
The people received the land when they were twenty years old and returned it when they were sixty years old.

summary:
summary line 6: The document traces the decline of the Zhou royal family and the rise of the Spring and Autumn period, when 36 monarchs were killed and 52 countries perished over 242 years. It lists 139 known countries including Lu, Zhu, Zheng, Song, Ji, Wei, and others, plus 31 countries that disappeared. The five hegemons emerged, followed by the seven warring states of Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu. The text describes the well-field system in detail, where land was divided into nine squares of 100 mu each, with eight families jointly cultivating the central public field.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
自文景与民休息，至平帝元始二年，民户千二百二十三万三千六十二，口五千九百五十九万四千九百七十八，其地东西九千三百二里，南北万三千三百六十八里。
大率十里一亭，亭有长。
十亭一乡，乡有三老，有秩啬夫、游徼各一人。
县大率方百里，民稠则减，稀则旷，乡、亭亦如之。
皆秦制也。
光武中兴，不逾前制，东海王疆以去就有礼，故优以大封，兼食鲁郡二十九县，其余称为宠锡者，兼一郡而已。
至桓帝永寿三年，户千六十七万七千九百六十，口五千六百四十八万六千八百五十六，斯亦户口之滋殖者也。
献帝建安元年拜曹操为镇东将军，封费亭侯。
魏文帝黄初三年，初制封王之庶子为乡公，嗣王之庶子为亭侯，公侯之庶子为亭伯。
刘备章武元年，亦以郡国封建诸王，或遥采嘉名，不由检土地所出。
其户二十万九十万。
孙叔赤乌五年，亦取中州嘉号封建诸王。
translation: 
From the time Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing promoted recuperation to the second year of Doumian, Emperor Ping, there were 12,233,062 households, 59,594,978 people, and a land of 9,302 miles from east to west and 13,368 miles from north to south.
There is roughly one pavilion every ten miles, with a pavilion length.
There are ten pavilions and one township. There are three elders in the township, one each for Zhi, Shifu and Youyou.
Each county is about a hundred miles long and horizontal, with less densely populated land and more sparsely populated land. The same is true for townships and pavilions.
They are all systems of the Qin Dynasty.
Lian Guanggen's resurgence did not go beyond the system of the previous generation. King Xingqiang of the East China Sea, because his stay, advance and retreat behavior was in line with etiquette, so he was generously rewarded and given twenty-nine counties in the overlapping counties as his fiefdom. The other officials who were granted the title due to favor only took one county as their fiefdom.
By the third year of Dantong Chengshi, there were 10,677,960 households with 56,486,856 people. This was also an era of increasing household numbers.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian appointed Daluan as General Zhenshu and granted him the title of Marquis Feiting.
In the third year of Huang Chu, Emperor Wen of Wei, for the first time, it was stipulated that the concubine of the king who was entrusted with the title was a township duke, the concubine of the succeeding king was a Tinghou, and the concubine of a duke was Tingbo.
In the first year of Zhangwu's reign, Liu Bei also enfeoffed counties and states to various kings. Some of them only received honorary titles from a distance without checking the location of the land.
At that time there were 200,000 households and 900,000 men and women.
In the fifth year of Chiwu, Sun Quan also used the good name of Zhongzhou to divide the kings.

summary:
summary line 7: The text concludes by describing the administrative systems of the Qin and Han dynasties. After Qin Shihuang abolished the five-rank nobility system, the Han dynasty established second-class titles, granting fiefs to meritorious officials. By Emperor Ping's reign, there were 12,233,062 households and 59,594,978 people, with territory extending 9,302 miles east to west and 13,368 miles north to south. The document details the system of pavilions every ten miles, townships every ten pavilions, and the roles of village elders and other officials. It notes that by the third year of a later reign, there were 10,677,960 households with 56,486,856 people, representing an era of increasing population.

