Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔者元胎无象，太素流形，对越在天，以为元首，则《记》所谓冬居营窟，夏居橧巢，饮血茹毛，未有麻丝者也。
及燧人钻火，庖牺出震，风宗下武，炎胤昌基，画野无闻，其归一揆。
黄帝则东海南江，登空蹑岱，至于昆峰振辔，崆山防道，存诸汗竹，不可厚诬。
高阳任地依神，帝喾顺天行义。
东逾蟠木，西济流沙，北至幽陵，南抚交址，日月所经，舟车所至，莫匪王臣，不逾兹域。
帝尧时，禹平水土，以为九州。
translation: 
In ancient times, primitive things had no external image. The various substances that made up the universe matched and matched with heaven and became the beginning of all things. As it is said in the "Records", they lived in caves and earthen chambers in winter, and in summer they lived in nests built with firewood, eating hair and drinking blood, without any coverings such as linen or silk.
至于燧人氏钻木取火，庖牺氏始画八卦，女娲氏断鳖足以立四极，炎帝神农氏发展农业，分划疆域，逭一切都是同一道理。
The Yellow Emperor reached the seaside in the east, reached the Yangtze River in the south, and climbed Mount Daiyue in the Kongshan Mountains. Things such as his riding horses in the Kunlun Mountains and his search for the best path in the Kongtong Mountains have been recorded in the annals of history and cannot deceive future generations.
Zhuanxu's Gaoyang family made everyone in the world have their own needs, and the emperor praised the Gaoxin family for following the way of heaven and practicing morality.
Crossing Panmu Mountain in the east, reaching Liusha in the west, starting from Youling in the north, and arriving at Jiaojun in the south. Wherever the moon shines, and the mountains and rivers that boats and cars reach, no one is not a subject of the monarch, and everywhere is the domain of the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Yao, Dayu controlled the land and water and divided the land into nine states.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
虞舜登庸，厥功弥劭，表提类而分区宇，判山河而考疆域，冀北创并部之名，燕齐起幽营之号，则《书》所谓肇十有二州，封十有二山者也。
夏功在于唐尧，殷因无所损益。
周武克商，自丰徂镐。
至成王时，改作《禹贡》，徐梁入于青雍，冀野析于幽并。
职方掌天下之土，以周厥利；保章辩九州之野，皆有分星。
东南曰扬州，正南曰荆州，河南曰豫州，正东曰青州，河东曰兗州，正西曰雍州，东北曰幽州，河内曰冀州，正北曰并州。
始皇初并天下，惩战国，削罢列侯，分天下为三十六郡。
translation: 
Yu Shun ascended the throne and became king, and his achievements were even more outstanding. He formulated the calendar, divided the star districts, planned the boundaries of mountains and rivers, and inspected the territory in all directions. He established Bingzhou in northern Hebei and named the Yan and Qi areas as Youzhou and Yingzhou. This is what the Book of History says about the establishment of ten mountains and the establishment of twelve mountains.
夏朝的功业在于唐尧，殷朝沿袭夏曲没有增益减损。
且迭王灭茵，京城自丰迁往镐京。
到周成王时，改写《尚书禹贡》，徐州、凿业并入直、壅蛆，又从幽业、差赵中离析出冀州。
The official is in charge of the land of the world, so as to know the pros and cons of each place, so that each can find its proper place; the official Baozhang, who observes and records astronomy, distinguishes the divisions of the nine states, so that each has its corresponding star area.
The southeast is called Yangzhou, the due south is called Jingzhou, Henan is called Yuzhou, the due east is Qingzhou, the east of Hedong is called Yanzhou, the due west is Yongzhou, the northeast is called Youzhou, the north of the Yellow River is Jizhou, and the due north is called Bingzhou.
When Qin Shihuang unified the world, he learned lessons from the wars in the difficult period, abolished the princes and kings, and divided the world into thirty-six counties.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
三川、河东、南阳、南郡、九江、鄣郡、会稽、颍川、砀郡、泗水、薛郡、东郡、琅邪、齐郡、上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东、代郡、钜鹿、邯郸、上党、太原、云中、九原、雁门、上郡、陇西、北地、汉中、巴郡、蜀郡、黔中、长沙、凡三十五郡，与内史为三十六郡也。
于是兴师逾江，平取百越，又置闽中、南海、桂林、象郡，凡四十郡，郡一守焉。
其他则西临洮而北沙漠，东萦西带，皆临大海。
汉祖龙兴，革秦之弊，分内史为三部，更置郡国二十有三，桂阳、江夏、豫章、河内、魏郡、东海、楚国、平原、梁国、定襄、泰山、汝南、淮阳、千乘、东莱、燕国、清河、信都、常山、中山、渤海、广汉、涿郡，合二十三也。
三内史者，河上、渭南、中地也。
《地理志》曰：高祖增二十六，武帝改河上、渭南、中地以为京兆、冯翊、扶风是为三辅也。
文增厥九，广平、城阳、淄川、济南、胶西、胶东、河间、庐江、衡山、武帝改衡山曰六安。
景加其四。
济北、济阴、山阳、北海也。
宣改济北曰东平。
武帝开越攘胡，初置十七，南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、交耻、九真、日南、珠崖、儋耳九郡，平西南夷置牂柯、越嵩、沈黎、汶山、犍为、益州六郡，西置武都郡，又分立零陵郡，合十七郡。
拓土分疆，又增十四。
弘农、临淮、西河、朔方、酒泉、陈留、安定、天水、玄菟、乐浪、广陵、敦煌、武威、张掖。
昭帝少事，又增其一。
金城也。
至平帝元始二年，凡新置郡国七十有一，与秦四十，合一百一十有一。
translation: 
Sanchuan, Hedong, Nanyang, Nanjun, Jiujiang, Zhangjun, Kuaiji, Yingchuan, Dangjun, Sishui, Xuejun, Dongjun, Langye, Qijun, Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoning West, Liaodong, Daijun, Julu, Handan, Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Jiuyuan, Yanmen, Shangjun, Longxi, Beidi, Hanzhong, Bajun, Shujun, Qianzhong, Changsha? There are thirty-five counties in total, and the capital under the jurisdiction of Yu Neishi has a total of thirty-six counties.
Then the army was sent across the Yangtze River to capture the land where Baiqi was pacified. He also established Minzhong, Nanhai, Guilin and Xiangjun, a total of forty counties, each with one county guard.
In the Qin Dynasty, the territory reached Dianfeng in the west, the desert in the north, and the western belt around it, all facing the sea.
Mozhibi established a new dynasty, eradicated the shortcomings of the Taiwan system, divided the Gyeonggi region into three parts, and added 23 counties, Guiyang, Jiangxia, Yuzhang, Hanoi, Weijun, Donghai, Chu Guo, Pingyuan, Liangguo, Dingxiang, Taishan, Runan, Huaiyang, Qiancheng, Donglai, Yanguo, Qinghe, Xindu, Changshan, Zhongshan, Bohai, Guanghan, and Zhuojun, a total of twenty-three counties.
The internal history is divided into three parts: Hui Shang, Hui Mu and Shi Si.
"Hanshu Geography" says: On the 26th day of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Wu changed the names of Heshang, Weinan and Zhongdi to Jingzhao, Yufeng Yi and Fufeng. This is the Sanfu area.
Emperor Yiwen added nine counties, Guangping, Chengyang, Zichuan, Jinan, Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Hejian, Lujiang, and Hengshan? Emperor Wu changed the name of Hengshan to Liu'an.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty established four additional counties.
Jibei, Jiyin, Shanyang, Beihai.
Emperor Xuan changed the name of Jibei to Dongping.
When Emperor Wu entered Vietnam and opened up the Hu lands, he first established seventeen counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaoshi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhuya, and Dan'er. After pacifying the southwestern barbarians, six counties were established: Zangke, Yuesong, Shenli, Wenshan, Qianwei, and Yizhou. Wudu County was established in the west, and Lingling County was separated, for a total of seventeen counties.
Land was opened up to expand the territory, and fourteen more counties were added.
Hongnong, Linhuai, Xihe, Shuofang, Jiuquan, Chenliu, Anding, Tianshui, Xuantu, Lelang, Guangling, Dunhuang, Wuwei, Zhangye.
Emperor Zhao had fewer changes and established an additional county.
Jincheng.
By the second year of the Yuanshi period of Emperor Ping, there were 71 newly established counties in total, which together with the 40 counties of the Qin Dynasty, made a total of 111 counties.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
改雍曰凉，改梁曰益，又置徐州，复夏旧号，南置交址，北有朔方，凡为十三部。
凉、益、荆、扬、青、豫、兗、徐、幽、并、冀十一州，交址、朔方二刺史，合十三部。
光武投戈之岁，在雕秏之辰，郡国萧条，并省者八。
城阳、淄川、高密、胶东、六安、真定、泗水、广阳。
建武十一年，省州牧，复为刺史，员十三人，各掌一州。
明帝置一，永昌也。
章帝置二，任城、吴郡。
和顺改作，其名有九。
和置济北、广阳，顺改淮阳为陈，改楚为彭城，济东为东平，临淮为下邳，千乘为六安，信都为安平，天水为汉阳。
省朔方刺史，合之于司隶，凡十三部，其与西汉不同者，司隶校尉部郡治河南，朔方隶于并部。
而郡国百有八焉。
translation: 
Yongzhou was renamed Liangzhou, Liangzhou was renamed Yizhou, Xuzhou was set up, and the old name was restored. Jiaozhi was set up in the south, and Shuozhou was set up in the north, making a total of thirteen divisions.
There are eleven prefectures: Liang, Yi, Jing, Yang, Qing, Yu, Yan, Xu, You, Bing, and Ji, and two prefectures of Jiaoshi and Shuofang, totaling thirteen divisions.
After Emperor Moguang Wu's war subsided, when Shuhan was first established, people's livelihood was in decline, household registrations were reduced, counties were in decline and scattered, and eight counties were merged to save the province.
Chengyang, Zichuan, Gaomi, Jiaodong, Lu'an, Zhending, Shangshui, Guangyang.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, the state pastoralist was abolished and the official position of the state governor was restored. Each of the thirteen state governors was in charge of a state.
Emperor Moming established a county, Yongchang.
Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty established two counties, Rencheng and Wu.
Emperor He and Emperor Moshun of the Han Dynasty added or changed nine counties.
Wing Tong set up Bianli and Lubao, and Mu changed the name to Jinyan to Su, Chu to Yilang, Shansu to Secuo, Luo Chen to Gongpi, Wang Chui to Rongda, Lao to Anping, and Tianshui to Hanyang.
The governor of Shuofang was abolished and merged with Sili, with a total of thirteen divisions. The difference from the Western Han Dynasty was that the county of the Xiaowei Division of Sili was in Henan, while Shuofang was subordinate to Bingbu.
There are one hundred and eight counties.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
省前汉八，分置五，改旧名七，因旧九十六，少前汉三也。
桓灵颇增于前，复置六郡。
桓，高阳、高凉、博陵；灵，南安、鄱阳、庐陵。
魏武定霸，三方鼎立，生宁版荡，关洛荒芜，所置者十二，新兴、乐平、西平、新平、略阳、阴平、带方、谯、乐陵、章武、南乡、襄阳。
所省者七，上郡、朔方、五原、云中、定襄、渔阳、庐江。
而文帝置七，朝歌、阳平、弋阳、魏兴、新城、义阳、安丰。
得汉郡者十有一焉。吴主大皇帝初置郡五，临贺、武昌、珠崖、新安、庐陵南部。
少帝、景帝各四，少，临川、临海、衡阳、湘东。
景，天门、建安、建平、合浦北部。
归命侯亦置十有二郡，始安、始兴、邵陵、安成、新昌、武平、九德、吴兴、东阳、桂林、荥阳、宜都。
得汉郡者十有八焉。
晋武帝太康元年，既平孙氏，凡增置郡国二十有三，荥阳、上洛、顿丘、临淮、东莞、襄城、汝阴、长广、广宁、昌黎、新野、随郡、阴平、义阳、毗陵、宣城、南康、晋安、宁浦、始平、咯阳、乐平、南平。
省司隶置司州，别立梁、秦、宁、平四州，仍吴之广州，凡十九州，司、冀、兗、豫、荆、徐、扬、青、幽、平、并、雍、凉、秦、梁、益、宁、交、广州。
郡国一百七十三，仍吴所置二十五，仍蜀新置十一，仍魏所置二十一，仍汉旧九十三，置二十三。
以为冠带之国，尽有殷周之土。
若乃敦庞于天地之始，昭晰于牺农之世，用长黎元，未争疆埸。
而玉环楛矢，夷裘风驾，南翚表贶，东风入律，光乎上德，奚远弗臻。
translation: 
The eight counties of Youmo were cancelled, and five counties were divided. Seven counties changed their old names, and ninety-six counties continued to use their old names, three counties less than those in the Western Han Dynasty.
Emperor Huan and Emperor Mo Ling of the Han Dynasty increased the number of counties compared with the previous dynasties and established six more counties.
Emperor Huan established Gaoyang, Gaoliang, and Bobi; Emperor Ling established Nan'an, Poyang, and Luling.
Emperor Wu of Wei dominated one area, and the three kingdoms of Wei, Shu and Wu were established. The people were in turmoil and displaced. The areas of Mengsheng and Piamo were deserted. Twelve counties were established: Xinxing, Leping, Xiping, Xinping, Lueyang, Yinping, Daifang, Qiao, Leling, Zhangwu, Nanxiang, and Xiangyang.
Cancel Shangjun, Shuofang, Wuyuan, Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Yuyang and Lujiang.
Emperor Wen established seven counties: Chaoge, Yangping, Yiyang, Weixing, Xincheng, Yiyang, and Anfeng.
During the Jian'an period of the Han Dynasty, the First Lord of Shu established nine counties for the first time: Badong, Brazil, Zitong, Jiangyang, Wenshan, Hanjia, Zhuti, Danqu, and Fuling. Shu has eleven counties and counties in Qu. The Great Emperor Wu Zhu established five counties for the first time: Linhe, Wuchang, Zhuya, Xin'an, and southern Luling.
The Shao Di and Jing Di set up four counties, and the Shao Di set up Linchuan, Linhai, Hengyang and Xiangdong.
Emperor Jing established Tianmen, Jian'an, Jianping and the northern part of Hepu.
Yuleibao also has twelve counties, Shi'an, Shixing, Shaoling, Ancheng, Xinchang, Wuping, Jiude, Wuxing, Dongyang, Guilin, Xingyang, and Yidu.
It occupies eighteen counties of Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Taikang, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, the power of the Sun family of Wu was pacified, and a total of twenty-three additional counties were added, including Xingyang, Shangluo, Dunqiu, Linhuai, Dongguan, Xiangcheng, Ruyin, Changguang, Guangning, Changli, Xinye, Suijun, Yinping, Yiyang, Piling, Xuancheng, Nankang, Jin'an, Ningpu, Shiping, Geyang, Leping, and Nanping.
Seven counties were abolished and Sizhou was established, and four more states were established: Liangzhou, Qinzhou, Ningzhou, and Pingzhou. The name of Guangzhou of Wu State was used, and there were nineteen states in total: Si, Ji, Yan, Yu, Jing, Xu, Yang, Qing, You, Ping, Bing, Yong, Liang, Qin, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guangzhou.
There are one hundred and seventy-three counties, including twenty-five counties established by the Wu State, eleven newly established counties by the Shu State, and twenty-one counties established by the Wei State. The ninety-three old counties of the Han Dynasty were followed, and twenty-three counties were established.
In this way, it became a great civilized country and owned all the territories of Yin and Zhou.
As a result, it is more abundant than in the primitive era and more prominent than the achievements of Fuxi and Shennong. The purpose is to support the people of Li instead of competing for territory.
Those rings made of jade and arrows made of wood, the foreign furs and windy chariots, the flocks of southern birds patronizing us, the spring breeze harmonious with the smooth rhythms, the emperor's achievements are prosperous, everywhere.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
然则星象丽天，山河纪地，端掖裁其弘敞，崤函判其都邑，仰观俯察，万物攸归。
是以洛沚咸阳，宛然秦汉，晋滨河西，同知尧禹，于兹新邑，宅是镐京，五尺童子皆能口诵者，史官弗之书也。
昔庖牺氏生于成纪，而为天子，都于陈。
神农氏都陈，而别营于曲阜。
黄帝生于寿丘。而都于涿鹿。
少昊始自穷桑，而迁都曲阜。
颛顼始自穷桑，而徙邑商丘。
高辛即号，建都于亳。
孙卿子曰： 不登高山，不知天之高；不临深谿，不知地之厚也。
大哉坤象，万物资生，载昆华而不坠，倾河海而宁泄。
考卜惟王，乘飞驻轸，睨弇山而镌勒，览曾城以为玩。
时逢稽浸，道接陵夷，平王东迁，星离豆剖，当涂驭寓，瓜分鼎立。
世祖武皇帝接千祀之余，当八尧之禅，先王桑梓，罄宇来归，斯固可得而言者矣。
惠皇不虞，中州尽弃，永嘉南度，纶行建鄴，九分天下而有二焉。
昔大禹观于浊河而受绿字，寰瀛之内可得而言也。
translation: 
However, the signs of the stars are attached to the sky, the mountains and rivers govern the earth, the stars of Duanmen and Yemen plan the vast area, and the mountains and rivers of Hangu distinguish the counties and cities. Looking up at the sky and the geography, everything in the world belongs to the dynasty.
Therefore, Luo Zhizhou and Xianyang are like Qin and Mo. Jin is adjacent to the west of the Yellow River. People in the past dynasties know that Yao and Yu settled in the new capital of Haojing. The local five-foot-long boys can recite it skillfully, and historians do not need to record it in the history books.
In the past, the Fuxi family was born in Chengji, and as the emperor, Chen was his capital.
The Shennong family originally made its capital Yusu, but later established Dihuang as its capital.
Dong Tong was born in Huaqiu and established his capital in Gu.
He first lived in Chunuo, and later moved his capital to Dihuang.
Tixi first lived in Saiduo, and later moved the city to Pandan.
Changui ascended the throne and established his capital in Taiwan.
King Youyi said: If you don't climb a mountain, you don't know how high the sky is; if you don't face the abyss, you don't know how thick the earth is.
The earth is grand, and all things are born on the ground. It can carry Kunlun and Jianshan without falling, and it can be carried back to the sea without leakage.
The king was convinced, so he took a carriage and parked his car to see the sights. He looked at the stone inscriptions on Shunxi Mountain in the distance, and looked at the city walls stacked on top of each other as if he were admiring them.
The times were stagnant, the political system was in decline, King Ping of Zhou moved eastward, and the princes were in dispute; Xuan Wei was in power, and the Three Kingdoms were in power.
Emperor Zuwu of the Jin Dynasty inherited a thousand-year legacy and accepted the abdication. The former king's homeland all belonged to the Jin State, so he could talk about territorial matters.
Saitong was unprepared, and the Central Plains were completely abandoned. In the Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, his sphere of influence moved southward to Jianye, which was the only one in the world.
In the past, Dayu observed the turbid Yellow River and found its roundness, so that he could talk about the affairs in the sea.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
天有七星，地有七表；天有四维，地有四渎。
八纮之外，名为八极。
地不足东南，天不足西北。
八极之广，东西二亿三万一千三百里，南北二亿三万一千三百里。
自地至天，半八极之数，自下亦如之。
昔黄帝令竖亥步自东极，至于西极，五亿十万九千八百八步。
史臣案，凡周天积百七万九百一十三里，径三十五万六千九百七十里。
所谓南北为经，东西为纬。
天有十二次，日月之所躔；地有十二辰，王侯之所国也。
或因生得姓，因功命土，祁、酉、燕、齐，在乎兹域。
昔黄帝旁行天下，方制万里，得百里之国万区，则《周易》所谓 首出庶物，万国咸宁 者也。
昔在帝尧，叶和万邦，制八家为邻，三邻为朋，三朋为里，五里为邑，十邑为都，十都为师，州十有二师焉。
translation: 
There are seven stars in the Big Dipper in the sky, and there are seven layers of earth on the earth. There are four corners in the sky, and there are four big rivers on the earth that flow eastward into the sea.
The farthest places in all directions are called Baji.
The terrain becomes lower in the southeast and the sky tilts toward the northwest.
Baji is vast, 203,1300 miles from east to west, and 203,1300 miles from north to south.
The distance from the earth to the sky is half the width of the eight poles, and the same is true from the ground to the ground.
Previously, Huangdi ordered Shuhai to measure the steps from Shuji to the West Pole, a total of 500,098,08 steps.
In the case of Shi Chen, the entire sky is 1,070,913 miles in total and 356,970 miles in diameter.
North and south are longitudes, and east and west are latitudes.
There are twelve times in the sky, which are the paths of the moon; there are twelve times in the earth, which are the areas where princes establish states.
Some states got their surnames from their ancestors' birthplaces, and some named their regions because of their achievements. Qi, You, Yan, and Qi are among these regions.
Previously, the Yellow Emperor traveled all over the world, governed thousands of miles, and gained nearly 10,000 countries with a radius of 100 miles. This is what the "Book of Changes" said: "Beyond the world, all nations will be at peace."
During the reign of Emperor Yao, many states were coordinated. The system was organized with eight families as neighbors, three neighbors as friends, three friends as li, five li as towns, ten towns as capitals, ten capitals as divisions, and one state had twelve divisions.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夏后氏东渐于海，西被于流沙，南浮于江，而朔南暨声教，穷竖亥所步，莫不率俾，会群臣于涂山，执玉帛者万国。
于是九州之内，作为五服。
天子之国，内五百里甸服，百里赋纳总，二百里纳铚，三百里纳秸服，四百里粟，五百里米。
甸服外五百里侯服，百里采，二百里任，三百里候。
侯服外五百里绥服，三百里揆文教，二百里奋武卫。
绥服外五百里要服，三百里夷，二百里蔡。
要服外五百里荒服，三百里蛮，二百里流。
讫于四海，弼成五服，五服至于五千里。
夏德中微，遇有穷之乱。
少康中兴，不失旧物。
自孔甲之后，以至于桀，诸侯相兼，其能存者三千余国，方于涂山，十损其七矣。
成汤败桀于焦，迁鼎于亳，伊挚、仲虺之徒，大明宪典。
translation: 
The territory of the Xia Hou family was limited to the seaside, with deserts in the west and the Yangtze River Basin in the south. Both the north and the south knew the king's authority and education, and all the people within the reach of Shuhai's pace were obedient.
So it was divided into five servers within Kyushu.
In the country where the emperor is located, five hundred miles will be used as a meadow, bundles of grain must be paid as taxes within one hundred miles, cut ears of grain must be paid within two hundred miles, threshed crop stalks must be paid within three hundred miles, millet must be paid within four hundred miles, and rice must be paid within five hundred miles.
The five hundred miles outside the Dianfu are the marquis's clothes, the one hundred miles are the fiefdoms of the officials, the two hundred miles are the nobility, and the three hundred miles are the marquis.
The five hundred miles outside the Houfu are Suifu, the three hundred miles are devoted to culture and education, and the two hundred miles are devoted to martial arts and strengthening defense.
Five hundred miles outside of Suifu are required to obey, three hundred miles follow the normal way, and two hundred miles are tax exempted.
The five hundred miles beyond the main gate are Huangfu, three hundred miles are Barbarian, and two hundred miles are Liuli.
Reaching the four seas, it became a system of five clothes, and the geographical scope of the five clothes was five thousand miles in radius.
The political virtues of the Xia Dynasty declined and they encountered the Youqiu Rebellion.
Shaokang was revived without losing his original land and state.
From the time of Kong Jia to the time when Jie was in power, the princes merged with each other, and more than 3,000 states were able to survive. Compared with the time when the Xia Hou family gathered the princes at Tushan, they lost about seven-tenths.
Chengtang defeated Jie in Jiao and moved the capital to Bo. Yi Zhi, Zhong Hui and others formulated a strict code of law.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
王者之制爵禄，公侯伯子男凡五等。
天子之田方千里，公侯田方百里，伯七十里，子男五十里。
不能五十里者，不达于天子，附于诸侯，曰附庸。
凡四海之内九州，州方千里。
州建百里之国三十，七十里之国六十，五十里之国百有二十，凡二百一十国。
名山大泽不以封，其余以为附庸间田。
八州，州二百一十国。
天子之县内，百里之国九。
七十里之国二十有一，五十里之国六十有三，凡九十三国。
名山大泽不以班，其余以禄士，以为间田。
凡九州，千七百七十三国。
天子之元士，诸侯之附庸，不与。
天子百里之内以供官，千里之内以为御，千里之外设方伯。
五国以为属，属有长；十国以为连，连有帅；三十国以为卒，卒有正；二百一十国以为州，州有伯。
八州，八伯，五十六正，百六十八帅，三百三十六长。
八伯各以其属属于天子之老二人，分天下为左右，曰二伯。
千里之内曰甸，千里之外曰采，曰流。
translation: 
The king formulated the salary and salary for the titles, and the titles were divided into five levels: Duke, Marquis, Uncle, Son, and Male.
The emperor's field is a thousand li in circumference, that of a duke is a hundred li, that of an uncle is seventy li, and that of a son is fifty li.
Those who are less than fifty miles away have no contact with the emperor and belong to the princes, and are called vassals.
Within the Four Seas there are nine states, each with a radius of a thousand miles.
Each state established thirty feudal states with a width of one hundred miles, sixty feudal states with a width of seventy miles, and one hundred and twenty feudal states with a width of fifty miles, for a total of two hundred and ten feudal states.
Mingshan Daze cannot be used as fiefdom, and the rest is regarded as vassal land.
There are 210 feudal states in eight states across the country.
Within the boundaries of the state where the emperor is located, there are nine hundred-mile feudal states.
There are twenty-one feudal states of seventy miles, and sixty-three feudal states of fifty miles, for a total of ninety-three kingdoms.
Famous mountains and swamps cannot be enfeoffed, and the rest of the land is used as salary for the scholars and as idle land after enfeoffment.
There are nine states in the country, with a total of 1,773 feudal states.
The emperor's noble men and the vassals of the princes are not among them.
The emperor's land tax within a hundred miles provided for official use, and within a thousand miles provided food and clothing.
The five kingdoms become one vassal, each with a commander; the ten kingdoms form one company, each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms form one pawn, each pawn has a pawn commander; the two hundred and ten kingdoms form one state, and each state has a prefect.
There are eight uncles in eight states, fifty-six are honest, one hundred and sixty-eight are handsome, and three hundred and thirty-six are long.
Each of the eight uncles is called the second uncle according to the two ministers whose country belongs to the emperor, and the world is divided into left and right.
Within a thousand miles is the meadow, and a thousand miles away is the harvest and flow.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
天子使其大夫为三监，监于方伯之国，国三人。
天子之县，内，诸侯禄也；外，诸侯嗣也。
武王归丰，监于二代，设爵惟五，分土惟三。
封同姓五十余国，周公、康叔建于鲁卫，各数百里。
太公封于齐，表东海者也。
凡一千八百国，布列于五千里内。
而太昊、黄帝之后，唐虞侯伯犹存。
大司徒以诸公之地封疆方五百里，其食者半；诸侯之地方四百里，其食者参之一；诸伯之地方三百里，其食者参之一；诸子之地方二百里，其食者四之一；诸男之地方百里，其食者四之一。
不易之地家百亩，一易之地家二百亩，再易之地家三百亩。
五家为比，使之相保；五比为闾，使之相受；四闾为族，使之相葬；五族为党，使之相救；五党为州，使之相赒；五州为乡，使之相宾。
translation: 
The emperor sent officials as three supervisors to monitor Fang Bo's country. There are three people in each.
Where the emperor is, the princes can take fiefs but their descendants cannot succeed to the throne; outside the emperor's place, the princes' descendants can succeed.
King Wu of Zhou came to the throne. Taking the example of the Xia and Shang dynasties, he established only five levels of titles and divided the land into three parts.
They granted more than fifty kingdoms to princes with the same surname. The fiefdoms of Zhou Gong and Kang Shu were called Lu and Wei, each occupying hundreds of miles.
Taigong was granted the title of Qi, located on the shore of Shuhai.
A total of 1,800 countries are distributed within an area of ​​5,000 miles.
The descendants of Taihao and Huangdi, and the princes of Tang Yao and Yu Shun still retained their fiefdoms.
The great Situ, who was in charge of the land of the state, measured the territory of the princes for five hundred miles in length and breadth, and the emperor ate half of the taxes; the land of the princes was 400 miles in length, and the emperor ate one-third of the taxes;
Each family cultivates 100 acres of land every year, 200 acres of land for two-year rotation, and 300 acres for three-year rotation.
The five families are the ratio, so that they can guarantee each other; the five ratios are the between, they can rely on each other and bear the damage of the house and other accidents; the four households are the clan, and they jointly handle funerals; the five clans are the party, and they can help each other in case of disaster; the five parties are the states, and they can help each other; the five states are the township, and they can pay tribute to the sage with the courtesy of treating guests.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
小司徒以五人为伍，五伍为两，四两为卒，五卒为旅，五旅为师，五师为军。
以起军旅，以作田役，以比追胥，以令贡赋。
乃经土地而井牧其田野，九夫为井，四井为邑，四邑为丘，四丘为甸，四甸为县，四县为都。
遗人则十里有庐，庐有饮食。
三十里有宿，宿有路室，路室有委。
五十里有市，市有候，候有馆，馆有积。
遂人则五家为邻，五邻为里，四里为酂，五酂为鄙，五鄙为县，五县为遂。
大司马以九畿之籍，施邦国之政。
方千里曰国畿，其外方五百里曰侯畿，又其外方五百里曰甸畿，又其外方五百里曰男畿，又其外方五百里曰采畿，又其外方五百里曰卫畿，又其外方五百里曰蛮畿，又其外方五百里曰夷畿，又其外方五百里曰镇畿，又其外方五百里曰籓畿。
畿，田限也。自王城以外，面五千里为界，有分限者九也。
translation: 
The young Situ has a team of five, five teams are two, four two are pawns, five pawns are a brigade, five brigades are a division, and five divisions are an army.
They were used to go on expeditions together, engage in field hunting, chase bandits, arrest thieves, and issue orders to collect tribute.
To manage the land, make well fields, and run livestock, the nine wells are wells, the four wells are towns, the four towns are hills, the four hills are dians, the four dians are counties, and the four counties are the capital.
The person in charge of giving and providing compensation sent people to set up huts ten miles along the road, where food and drink could be provided.
There are lodgings thirty miles away, and there are road rooms where you can stay, and there are things stored in the road rooms.
There is a market at fifty miles, and there is a waiting room in the market, and there is a waiting room for welcoming and seeing off guests, and there are stored materials in the waiting room.
The people in Sui who were in charge of the countryside regarded five families as neighbors, five neighbors as li, four li as bi, five zhengs and scolds, five bis as counties, and five counties as sui.
Da Sima governed the princes of the country based on their household registration in Jiuji.
A thousand miles in length and breadth within the Wang Ji is the Guo Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Guo Ji is the Hou Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Hou Ji is the Ding Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Ding Ji is the Nan Ji, and the five hundred miles beyond the Nan Ji is the Cai Ji. , the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Wei Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Wei Ji are the Man Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Man Ji are the Yi Ji, the five hundred miles outside the Yi Ji are the Zhen Ji, and the further five hundred miles outside are the Fan Ji.
Ji is the boundary of the field. From Baiwang City to the outside, it is bounded by five thousand miles from east to west and from north to south. There are nine kis that divide the land.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
于时治致太平，政称刑措，民口千三百七十一万四千九百三十三，盖周之盛者也。
其衰也，则礼乐征伐出自诸侯，强吞弱而众暴寡。
春秋之初，尚有千二百国；迄获麟之末，二百四十二年，弑君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走不得保其社稷者不可胜数，而见于《春秋》经传者百有七十国焉。
百三十九知其所居，鲁、邾、郑、宋、纪、卫、西、莒、齐、陈、杞、蔡、邢、郕、晋、薛、许、邓、秦、曹、楚、随、黄、梁、虞、郧、小邾、徐、燕、鄀、麋、舒、庸、郯、莱、吴、越、有穷、三苗、瓜州、有虞、东、共、宿、申、夷、向、南燕、滕、凡、戴、息、郜、芮、魏、淳于、谷、巴、州、蓼、罗、赖、牟、葛、谭、萧、遂、滑、权、鄣、霍、耿、江、冀、弦、道、柏、微、鄫、厉、项、密、任、须句、颛臾、顿、管、雍、毕、丰、邘、应、蒋、茅、胙、夔、介、焦、沈、六、巢、根牟、唐、黎、郇瑕、寒、有鬲、斟灌、斟寻、过、有过、戈、偪阳、邿、铸、豕韦、唐杜、杨、豳、郐、观、扈、邳、胡、黎、大庭、骀、岐、邶、锺吾、浦姑、昆吾、房、密须、甲父、鄅、桐、亳、韩、赵。
三十一国尽亡其处，祭、极、荀、贾、贰、轸、绞、于余丘、阳、箕、英氏、毛、聃、莘、偪、封父、仍、有仍、崇、鄟、庸、姺、奄、商奄、褒姒、蓐、有缗、阙巩、飂、鬷、穷桑。
蛮夷戎狄不在其间。
translation: 
At that time, the country's governance was at peace, and its politics and religion could be described as clear and clear. No one committed a crime and the criminal law was not used. There were 13,714,933 people, which was probably the heyday of the Zhou Dynasty.
When the Zhou royal family declined, the system of rituals, music, and conquests were all controlled by the princes. The weak preyed on the strong, and the strong bullied the weak.
At the beginning of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were still 1,200 kingdoms. By the end of Lu Aigong's hunt for Lin in the west, 36 monarchs had been killed in 242 years, and 52 countries had perished.
One hundred and thirty-nine of them know the location of their country, including Lu, Zhu, Zheng, Song, Ji, Wei, Xi, Ju, Qi, Chen, Qi, Cai, Xing, Xi, Jin, Xue, Xu, Deng, Qin, Cao, Chu, Sui, Huang, Liang, Yu, Yun, Xiaozhu, Xu, Yan, Wei, Mi, and Shu , Yong, Tan, Lai, Wu, Yue, Youqiong, Sanmiao, Guazhou, Youyu, Dong, Gong, Su, Shen, Yi, Xiang, Nanyan, Teng, Fan, Dai, Xi, Gao, Rui, Wei, Chunyu, Gu, Ba, Zhou, Liao, Luo, Lai, Mou, Ge, Tan, Xiao, Sui, Hua, Quan , Zhang, Huo, Geng, Jiang, Ji, Xian, Dao, Bai, Wei, Juan, Li, Xiang, Mi, Ren, Xuju, Zhuanyu, Dun, Guan, Yong, Bi, Feng, Xie, Ying, Jiang, Mao, Xun, Kui, Jie, Jiao, Shen, Liu, Chao, Genmu, Tang, Li, Xunxia, Han, You Li, Zhenguan, Zhexun, Guo, Youguo, Ge, Biyang, Yi, Zhu, Weiwei, Tangdu, Yang, Bin, Hao, Guan, Hu, Pi, Hu, Li, Dating, Ni, Qi, Bei, Zhongwu, Pugu, Kunwu, Fang, Mixu, Jiafu, Zhen, Tong, Bo, Han, Zhao.
Thirty-one countries have disappeared, Ji, Ji, Xun, Jia, Er, Zhen, Jiao, Yuqiu, Yang, Ji, Yingshi, Mao, Dan, Xin, Bi, Fengfu, still, Youyi, Chong, Juan, Yong, Ju, Yan, Shang Yan, Baosi, Xuan, Youmin, Quegong, Xiang, Ji, Qiongsang.
Barbarians, Rongdi, and others are not included.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
五伯迭兴，总其盟会。
陵夷至于战国，遂有七王，韩、魏、赵、燕、齐、秦、楚。
又有宋、卫、中山，不断如线，如三晋篡夺，亦称孤也。
《司马法》广陈三代，曰：古者六尺为步，步百为亩，亩百为夫，夫三为屋，屋三为井。
井方一里，是为九夫，八家共之。
一夫一妇受私田百亩，公田十亩，是为八百八十亩，余二十亩为庐舍，出入相友，守望相助，疾病相救。
民受田，上田夫百亩，中田夫二百亩，下田夫三百亩，岁受耕之，爰自其处。
其家众男为余夫，亦以口受田如此。
士工商家受田，五口乃当农夫一口。
有赋有税，税谓公田什一及工商衡虞之入也，赋供车马甲兵士从之役。
民年二十受田，六十归田。
translation: 
The five hegemons are more prosperous and lead the alliance among the princes.
The royal family declined and during the Warring States Period, seven hegemons emerged: Han, Wei, Zhao, Yan, Qi, Qin, and Chu.
There are also the Song, Wei, and Zhongshan dynasties, which are inseparable. For example, the three dynasties of Han, Zhao, and Wei were divided into the Jin Dynasty and each became king.
"Sima Law" extensively states the system of three ancient dynasties, which says: In ancient times, six feet was one step, one hundred steps was one acre, one hundred acres was one husband, three husbands was one house, and three houses was one well field.
The well field is one mile vertically and horizontally, which is Jiufu, and is jointly owned by eight families.
Each couple received 100 acres of private land and 10 acres of public land, for a total of 880 acres for eight families. The remaining 20 acres were land occupied by thatched cottages. Families in the same field cared for each other, helped neighbors, and rescued each other in case of illness or disaster.
The people received land, each farmer had one hundred acres of good land, two hundred acres of medium land, and three hundred acres of low-grade land. They would cultivate the land every year and arrange their own rotation.
The farmer who received the field, and the other men in the family who were the remaining husbands, also received the field according to their number.
Land was distributed among the families of scholars, workers and merchants, and five people were equal to one farmer.
There is a tax and a tax. The tax refers to one-tenth of the output of the farmer's public land. Craftsmen, merchants, and hengyu who manage the mountains and rivers pay their respective profits and products. The tax refers to the provision of chariots, horses, weapons, and the service of soldiers.
The people received the land when they were twenty years old and returned it when they were sixty years old.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
种谷必杂五种，以备灾旱。
田中不得有树，以妨五谷。
环庐种桑柘，菜茹有畦，瓜瓠果蓏植于疆埸，鸡狗豕无失其时。
闾有序，乡有庠，序有明教，庠以行礼。
司马之法，官设六军之众，因井田而制军。
令地方一里为井，井十为通，通十为成，成方十里。
成十为终，终十为同，同方百里。
同十为封，封十为畿，畿方千里。
故井四为邑，邑四为丘，丘十六井，有戎马一区，牛三头。
四丘为甸，甸六十四井也，有戎马四匹，兵车一乘，牛十二头，甲士三人，卒七十二人。
是谓乘车之制。
translation: 
Farming must also include growing grains to prevent natural disasters.
There should be no trees in farmland so as not to hinder the growth of grains.
Mulberry and eucalyptus trees should be planted around the cottage, various vegetables should be planted in separate borders, various fruits and melons should be planted on the edges of the fields, and domestic animals such as dolphins, dolphins, dogs, and pigs should not miss the opportunity to breed.
Each village has a school, and each township has a school. The local schools are used for education, and the township schools are used for teaching etiquette.
According to Sima's law, six armies were officially established and military orders were formulated based on the well fields.
One mile of land is a well, ten wells are a link, ten links are a bridge, and a line is ten miles vertically and horizontally.
The ten become the same, and the ten are the same, and they are the same across hundreds of miles.
Ten of them are called a seal, and ten of them are called a ridge. The ridge stretches thousands of miles.
Therefore, four wells are called a town, and four towns are called hills. Each hill has sixteen wells, one military horse and three cows.
There are four hills for the fields, and there are sixty-four wells in each field, four military horses, one military chariot, twelve oxen, three armored soldiers, and seventy-two soldiers.
This is called the system of riding a car.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
一同百里，提封万井，除山川、坑岸、城池、邑居、园囿、街路三千六百井，定出赋六千四百井，戎马四百匹，兵车百乘，此卿大夫采地之大者也，是谓百乘之家。
一封三百六十六里，提封十万井，定出赋六万四千井，戎马四千匹，兵车千乘，此谓诸侯之大者也，谓之千乘之国。
天子畿内方千里，提封百万井，定出赋六十四万井，戎马四万匹，兵车万乘，戎卒七十二万人，故天子称万乘之主焉。
秦始皇既得志于天下，访周之败，以为处士横议，诸侯寻戈，四夷交侵，以弱见夺，于是削去五等焉。
汉兴，创艾亡秦孤立而败，于是割裂封疆，立爵二等，功臣侯者百有余邑。
于时民罹秦项，户口凋弊，大侯不过万家，小者五六百户，而尊王子弟，大启九国。
古者有分土而无分民，若乃大者跨州连郡，小则十有余城，以户口为差降，略封疆之远近，所谓分民自汉始也。
translation: 
A total of 10,000 wells with a radius of 100 li, excluding 3,600 wells including mountains, ravines, cities, towns, gardens, and streets. It is stipulated that there are 6,400 wells, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots to pay taxes. This is a family with more land under the Qing Dynasty, and it is called a 100-carriage home.
The area has a radius of 366 li, a total of 100,000 wells, and it is stipulated that there are 64,000 wells to pay taxes, 4,000 military horses, and military chariots. This is the most powerful among the princes, and it is called the country of thousands of chariots.
The emperor's kingdom has a radius of thousands of miles and a total of millions of wells. It is stipulated that the tax payers include 640,000 wells, 40,000 horses, 10,000 chariots, and 720,000 soldiers. Therefore, the emperor is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
After Qin Shihuang took control of the world, he looked for the reasons for the failure of the Gu Dynasty. He believed that it was due to the wanton discussion of the officials, the warlike feudal princes, and the mutual invasion of the barbarians. The Zhou royal family was eliminated due to its weakness, so the fifth-class titles were cancelled.
When the Han Dynasty arose, it accepted the lesson of Qin's isolation and defeat, so it divided the territory and established second-class titles. Meritorious officials were granted more than a hundred fiefs.
At that time, the people experienced the rule of the Qin Dynasty and the disputes between Chu and Hui. The population declined. There were only 10,000 households in the large feudal kingdoms and only 500 or 600 households in the small ones. Therefore, the Han Dynasty respected the children of the royal family and expanded the nine kingdoms extensively.
In ancient times, land was enfeoffed but not the population. As a result, large fiefdoms spanned states and counties, while small ones only had more than ten cities. The divisions were based on households and the distance of the land boundaries. The so-called division of people began with ridges.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
起雁门以东，尽辽阳，为燕代。常山以南，太行左转，渡河济，渐于海，为齐赵。
谷泗以注，奄有龟蒙，为梁楚。
东带江湖，薄会稽，为荆吴。
北界淮濒，略庐衡，为淮南。
波汉之阳，亘九疑，为长沙。
诸侯比境，周匝三垂，外接胡越。
天子自有三河、东郡、颍川、南阳，自江陵以不西至巴蜀，北至云中，西至陇西，与京师内史，凡十五郡。
文帝采贾生之议分齐赵，景帝用朝错之计削吴楚。
武帝施主父之册，下推恩之令，使诸侯王得分户邑以封子弟，不行黜陟，而籓国自析。
自此以来，齐分为七，赵分为六，梁分为五，淮南分为三。
皇子始立者大国不过十余城，长沙、燕、代虽有旧名，皆亡南北边矣。
translation: 
It is covered from the east of Lidan to Liaozhou. To the south of Limulus Mountain, the Holy Land of Sai extends eastward, passing through Donghui and Zhacheng, to the seaside, where it is called Chaxang.
The place where Tong Mi and Sicheng flowed in, including Gu Dan and Sha Ye, was Luan Chu.
To the east is the Kenliao Huiting tide, which is close to the Heshan area and is called Xingxing.
To the north is the Jinhui coast, including Luchong, which is He.
To the north and to the north bank of Zhuisai, across Lixingdi, is Kentu.
The borders of the princes are connected, surrounded by three borders, and adjacent to Hu and Pad on the outside.
The emperor himself had Sandan, Sedeng, Ticong, and Luzhui, from the west to Danshu, to the north to Zhoushi, to the west to Longyou, and the Sanfu area of ​​​​the capital, a total of fifteen counties.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty adopted Yi Sheng's suggestion to divide Man Zhao, and Xing Tong used the strategy of reclamation to reduce Cheng Chu.
Gentong implemented the suggestion of the chief fortress and issued the edict of Tuien, so that the princes and kings could allocate population and food to their children. The court would not decide on promotion, demotion or deposed, and the vassal state would handle it on its own.
From then on, Cha was divided into seven, Fang was divided into six, Chi was divided into five, and Huainan was divided into three.
The newly enfeoffed prince's great enfeoffment did not exceed more than a dozen cities. Changsi, Xie, and Youbi retained their old names, but lost the north and south sides.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
自文景与民休息，至平帝元始二年，民户千二百二十三万三千六十二，口五千九百五十九万四千九百七十八，其地东西九千三百二里，南北万三千三百六十八里。
大率十里一亭，亭有长。
十亭一乡，乡有三老，有秩啬夫、游徼各一人。
县大率方百里，民稠则减，稀则旷，乡、亭亦如之。
皆秦制也。
光武中兴，不逾前制，东海王疆以去就有礼，故优以大封，兼食鲁郡二十九县，其余称为宠锡者，兼一郡而已。
至桓帝永寿三年，户千六十七万七千九百六十，口五千六百四十八万六千八百五十六，斯亦户口之滋殖者也。
献帝建安元年拜曹操为镇东将军，封费亭侯。
魏文帝黄初三年，初制封王之庶子为乡公，嗣王之庶子为亭侯，公侯之庶子为亭伯。
刘备章武元年，亦以郡国封建诸王，或遥采嘉名，不由检土地所出。
其户二十万九十万。
孙叔赤乌五年，亦取中州嘉号封建诸王。
translation: 
From the time Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing promoted recuperation to the second year of Doumian, Emperor Ping, there were 12,233,062 households, 59,594,978 people, and a land of 9,302 miles from east to west and 13,368 miles from north to south.
There is roughly one pavilion every ten miles, with a pavilion length.
There are ten pavilions and one township. There are three elders in the township, one each for Zhi, Shifu and Youyou.
Each county is about a hundred miles long and horizontal, with less densely populated land and more sparsely populated land. The same is true for townships and pavilions.
They are all systems of the Qin Dynasty.
Lian Guanggen's resurgence did not go beyond the system of the previous generation. King Xingqiang of the East China Sea, because his stay, advance and retreat behavior was in line with etiquette, so he was generously rewarded and given twenty-nine counties in the overlapping counties as his fiefdom. The other officials who were granted the title due to favor only took one county as their fiefdom.
By the third year of Dantong Chengshi, there were 10,677,960 households with 56,486,856 people. This was also an era of increasing household numbers.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian appointed Daluan as General Zhenshu and granted him the title of Marquis Feiting.
In the third year of Huang Chu, Emperor Wen of Wei, for the first time, it was stipulated that the concubine of the king who was entrusted with the title was a township duke, the concubine of the succeeding king was a Tinghou, and the concubine of a duke was Tingbo.
In the first year of Zhangwu's reign, Liu Bei also enfeoffed counties and states to various kings. Some of them only received honorary titles from a distance without checking the location of the land.
At that time there were 200,000 households and 900,000 men and women.
In the fifth year of Chiwu, Sun Quan also used the good name of Zhongzhou to divide the kings.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
其户五十二万三千，男女口二百四十万。
晋文帝为晋王，命裴秀等建立五等之制，惟安平郡公孚邑万户，制度如魏诸王。
其余县公邑千八百户，地方七十五里；大国侯邑千六百户，地方七十里；次国侯邑千四百户，地方六十五里；大国伯邑千二百户，地方六十里；次国伯邑千户，地方五十五里；大国子邑八百户，地方五十里；次国子邑六百户，地方四十五里；男邑四百户，地方四十里。
武帝泰始元年，封诸王以郡为国。
邑二万户为大国，置上下中下三军，兵五千人；邑万户为次国，置上军下军，兵三千人；五千户为小国，置一军，兵千五百人。
王不之国，官于京师。
罢五等之制，公侯邑万户以上为大国，五千户以上为次国，不满五千户为小国。
太康元年，平吴，大凡户二百四十五万九千八百四十，口一千六百一十六万三千八百六十三。
translation: 
At that time there were 523,000 households, with 10,000 men and women.
Sai Tong was made the queen, and Yuzhou and others were ordered to establish a five-level nobility system. Only Ma Fu, an company in Anping County, had 10,000 households, which was the same size as the kings of Wei.
In other counties, there are 1,800 official settlements, with a land length of 75 li each; in the great feudal state, there are 1,600 feudal households, with a land of 70 li each side; in the sub-state, there are 1,400 feudal households, with a land length of 65 li each; in the great feudal state, there are 1,200 feudal lords, with a land length of 60 li each; One thousand households, each with a land of fifty-five li in length and breadth; a Dafeng Kingdom with 800 households, with a land of 50 li in length and width; a sub-state with 600 households, with a land of 45 li in length and width; a Dafeng Kingdom with 400 households, and a land of 40 li in length and width; a sub-state with 200 households, and land of 25 li in length and width.
In the first year of Taishi, Emperor Wu, the counties were divided into various kings as feudal states.
A large country with 20,000 households in a city has three armies, upper, middle and lower, and 5,000 soldiers; a sub-state with 10,000 households has an upper and lower armies, and 3,000 soldiers; a small country with 5,000 households has an army with 1,500 soldiers.
The kings of various places did not go to their respective feudal states, but held official posts in the capital.
The system of five levels of nobility was abolished. A large country was defined as a prince with a household of more than 10,000 households, a sub-country with a household of more than 5,000 households, and a small country with less than 5,000 households.
In the first year of Taikang, when the state of Wu was pacified, it had approximately 2,459,840 households and 1,6163,863 people.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
而江左诸国并三分食一，元帝渡江，太兴元年，始制九分食一。
司州。
案《禹贡》豫州之地。
及汉武帝，初置司隶校尉，所部三辅、三河诸郡。
其界西得雍州之京兆、冯翊、扶风三郡，北得冀州分河东、河内二郡，东得豫州之弘农、河南二郡，郡凡七。
位望降于牧伯，银印青绶。
及光武都洛阳，司隶所部与前汉不异。
魏氏受禅，即都汉宫，司隶所部河南、河东、河内、弘农并冀州之平阳，合五郡，置司州。
晋仍居魏都，乃以三辅还属雍州，分河南立荥阳，分雍州之京兆立上洛，废东郡立顿丘，遂定名司州，以司隶校尉统之。
州统郡一十二，县一百，户四十七万五千七百。
河南郡汉置。
统县十二，户一十一万四千四百。
置尹。
洛阳置尉。
五部、三市。
东西七里，南北九里。
东有建春、东阳、清明三门，南有开阳、平昌、宣阳、建阳四门，西有广阳、西明、阊阖三门，北有大夏、广莫二门。
司隶校尉、河南尹及百官列城内也。
河南周东都王城郏鄏也。
巩周孝王封周桓公孙惠公于巩，号东周，故战国时有东、西周号。
translation: 
Each country in the Jiangsu area took one-third of its own land as a food town. After the Yuan Emperor crossed the Yangtze River, in the first year of Taixing, he began to stipulate that each feudal state should use one-ninth of its food town.
Sizhou.
The place of Yuzhou recorded in "Yu Gong".
At the time of Emperor Mowu, Sili Xiaowei was set up for the first time to command the counties of Sanfu and Sanhe.
Its boundaries include the three counties of Jingzhao, Fengyi and Fufeng in Yongzhou in the west, the two counties of Hedong and Hanei in Jizhou in the north, and the Shubu area including Hongnong and Henan counties in Yuzhou, a total of seven counties.
The status and reputation of the county governor are higher than those of the state and county shepherds, and they are awarded silver seals and green ribbons.
When Emperor Guangwu established his capital in Luoyang, the area under Sili's jurisdiction was the same as that of the Western Han Dynasty.
When the Wei family accepted the throne, they took the location of the Han Imperial Palace as the capital, and administered the five counties of Henan, Hedong, Hanoi, Hongnong and Pingyang in Jizhou, and established Sizhou.
The Jin Dynasty continued to use the capital of Wei, so it returned Sanfu to Yongzhou, divided it into Henan County and established Rongyang, divided Jingzhao in Yongzhou and established Shangluo, abolished Shu County and established Dunqiu, so it was named Sizhou and was managed by Si Li Xiaowei.
The state governs twelve counties, one hundred counties, and 475,700 households.
Henan County was established in the Han Dynasty.
It governs twelve counties and 114,400 households.
Set Yin.
Luoyang Zhiwei.
There are five departments and three cities.
Seven miles from east to west and nine miles from north to south.
There are three gates of Jianchun, Dongyang and Qingming in the east, four gates of Kaiyang, Pingchang, Xuanyang and Jianyang in the south, three gates of Guangyun, Ximing and Khotan and Min in the west and two gates of Daxia and Guangmo in the north.
Sili Xiaowei, Henan Yin and hundreds of officials gathered in the city.
Jiabi, the royal city of Zhoushu in Henan.
King Xiao of Gong Zhou granted Gong Hui Gong, the grandson of Duke Huan of Zhou, the title of Eastern Zhou. Therefore, during the Warring States Period, it was also known as Shu Zhou and Western Zhou.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
芒山、首阳其界也。
河阴新安函谷关所居。
成皋有关，郑之武牢。
缑氏有刘聚，周大夫刘子邑。
有延寿城、仙人祠。
阳城有鄂阪关。
此邑是为地中，夏至景尺五寸。
有阳城山、箕山，许由墓在焉。
新城有延寿关。
故戎蛮子之国。
陆浑故蛮子国，楚壮王伐陆浑是也。
梁战国时谓为南梁，别少梁也。
阳翟荥阳郡泰始二年置。
统县八，户三万四千。
荥阳地名敖，秦置敖仓者。
京郑太叔段所居。
密故周畿内。
卷有博浪长沙，张良击秦始皇处。
阳武苑陵中牟六国时，赵献侯都。开封宋蓬池在东北，或曰蓬泽。
弘农郡汉置。
统县六，户一万四千。
弘农本函谷关。
陕故虢国，周分陕东西，二相主之。
宜阳黾池华阴华山在县南。
上洛郡泰始二年，分京兆南郡置。
统县三，户万七千。
上洛峣关在县西北。
商秦相卫商鞅邑。
庐氏熊耳山在东，伊水所出。
平阳郡故属河东，魏分立。
统县十二，户四万二千。
平阳旧尧都。侯国。
translation: 
Mangshan and Shouyang are its county boundaries.
The location of Hangu Pass in Xin'an, Heyin.
It is related to Chenggao and is the Wulao Pass of Zheng.
The Feng family has Liu Ju, the food town of Liu Zi, the official of Zhou Dynasty.
There is Yanshou City and Immortal Temple.
There is Eban Pass in Yangcheng.
The city is located in the center of the earth, and the shadow of the sun is one foot and five inches during the summer solstice.
There are Yangcheng Mountain and Jishan Mountain. The base of the insect is in that Xiang.
The more achievements there are, the longer the hurricane will be.
The former kingdom of King Luman.
In the former Manzi Kingdom, this was the place where King Chuzhuang was defeated by his misfortune.
When it was built, it was called Nanliang to distinguish it from Shaoliang.
It was established in the second year of Huasi Painting in Rongyang County, Yangzhai.
It oversees eight counties and 34,000 households.
The place name is Yao, where Formosa Plastics built Aocang.
Consolidate the place where the main interest is to live.
Mi Yuan Mo Wang Ji Nei.
When Kun was trapped, he immediately had Bolang Changsha, where Danmu attacked Taiwan and merged with the emperor.
Yue Wawa was the capital of Zhao Saiwu. The horseshoe crab plug is meandering in the northeast, also known as Pengju.
Hongnong County pendant setting.
It oversees six counties and 14,000 households.
Emperor Chou sent a letter to Guguan.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty moved to Mianyue. Invitation was originally called Su, but Lian Genxi was renamed Wing. In the Zhou Dynasty, the original shovel fish was divided into two parts, the east and the west, which were governed by the two phases.
Yiyang Yuchi and Huayin Huashan are in the south of Huayin County.
In the second year of Zhu Yue Hua Pan's reign, the southern part of Sailii was divided and set up.
It oversees three counties and 17,000 households.
The upper bandits fell to the hurricane in the northwest of the county.
The fief where people from Yitai Xiangjie sell bran.
The Qianlong and Miaohu Mountains are on its side, which is the birthplace of Yucheng.
Pingyang County originally belonged to Jiongsai, and the tombs were separated.
It governs twelve counties and 42,000 households.
The old capital of Yuan Dynasty in Laos. Hou country. Far away from Dangbao Country.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
杨故杨侯国。端氏韩、魏。赵既为诸侯，以端氏封晋君也。
永安故霍伯国。
霍山在东。
临汾公国相。
北屈壶口山在东南。
有南屈，故称北。
皮氏故耿国。
闻喜故曲沃。
晋武公自晋阳徙此。
垣王屋山在东北，沇水所出。
汾阳公国相。
大阳吴山在西。
周武王封西周太伯后于此猗氏古猗顿城。
解有盐池。
蒲坂有历山，舜所耕也。
有雷首山，夷齐居其阳，所谓首阳山。
河北
汲郡泰始二年置。
统县六，户三万七千。
汲有铜关。
朝歌纣所都。
共故国。
北山，淇水所出。
林虑获嘉故汲新中乡。
汉武帝行过时，获吕嘉首，因改名。
修武晋所启南阳，秦改名修武。
河内郡汉置。
统县九，户五万二千。
野王太行山在西北。
translation: 
Sudanzheng, Tomb, and Zhao became princes, and Liudan was granted the title of Prime Minister Biyuan of Langtan Kingdom.
Ridges and mountains are in its bundle. The Fisher King Hu Zhanyue is the Prime Minister of the Principality.
At that time, the centipede migrated from Didie to Xiang.
Qiuyuan Mountain is in the southwest. The Duke surrounded the prime minister.
Jilihukou Mountain is in the southeast.
There is straight day, so it is called: rugged.
Lu Dan was originally from the country of Tart.
Multi-paint settings. It governs nine counties and has 42,500 households.
As much as Hihara Dida. Duke Zhi Gensheng moved from Zhiyan to Qianguo.
Yuanwang Kenshan is in the northeast, the birthplace of the frontier fortress.
Supervise the Duke and the Prime Minister.
Zuoyanxing Mountain is in the west.
But the descendants of King Jianfeng Youmei Zhuyuan are here. The ancient Yue sculptures were made on the first day of the lunar month.
Crabs have salt ponds.
Fishing invites Lidan, a place for farming.
There is Chongju Mountain, and Zhitong and Guisheng once lived in the south of the mountain, which is called Jukencan.
Hebei.
The inspection board is set up every two years.
He was in charge of six counties, with three lettuce and seven thousand households.
There is a copper plate.
The place where Chaoge Zhou established his capital.
A common ancient country.
Beishan, the birthplace of Qishui.
Lin Liu was born in Jiaxinzhong Township, Jiayuan.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty passed by this Xiang during his patrol, he received Lu Jia's head, so he changed his name.
Nanyang, opened by Liao Wu and Jin, was renamed Xiu Wu by Qin.
Hanoi County Han setting.
It oversees nine counties and 52,000 households.
Yewang Taihang Mountain is in the northwest.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
州故晋邑。
怀平皋邢侯自襄国徙此。
河阳沁水轵故周原邑。
山阳温故国也，苏忿生封。
广平郡魏置。
统县十五，户三万五千二百。
广平邯郸秦置为郡。
易阳武安涉襄国故邢侯国都。
南和任曲梁列人肥乡临水广年侯相。
斥漳平恩阳平郡魏置。
统县七，户五万一千。
元城汉元后生邑。
馆陶清泉发干东武阳阳平乐平
魏郡汉置。
统县八，户四万七百。
鄴魏武受封居此。
长乐魏斥丘安阳荡阴内黄黄池在西。
黎阳故黎侯国。
顿丘郡泰始二年置。
统县四，户六千三百。
顿丘繁阳阴安卫
永嘉之后，司州沦没刘聪。
聪以洛阳为荆州，及石勒，复以为司州。
石季龙又分司州之河南、河东、弘农、荥阳，兗州之陈留、东燕为洛州。元帝渡江，亦侨置司州于徐，非本所也。
后以弘农人流寓寻阳者侨立为弘农郡。
又以河东人南寓者，于汉武陵郡孱陵县界上明地侨立河东郡，统安邑、闻喜、永安、临汾、弘农、谯、松滋、大戚八县。并寄居焉。
永和五年，桓温入洛，复置河南郡，属司州。
兗州。
案《禹贡》济河之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
《周礼》： 河东曰兗州。
《春秋元命包》云命： 五星流为兗州。
兗，瑞也，信也。
又云： 盖取兗水以名焉。
汉武帝置十三州，以旧名为兗州，自此不改。
州统郡国八，县五十六，户八万三千三百。
陈留国汉置。
translation: 
The original state is Jinyi.
Huaiping Gao Xinghou migrated here from Xiangguo.
Heyang Qinshui Ruanyuan Zhou Yuanyi.
Shanyang warms his homeland, and Su angers his fiefdom.
Guangping County Tomb Settings.
It governs fifteen counties and 35,200 households.
Guangping and Handan were established as counties by the Qin Dynasty.
Wu'an, Yiyang, was the capital of Xinghou State, the former capital of Shexiang State.
Nanhe was appointed as the Marquis of Guangnian in Feixiang, Linshui, Quliang.
He suppressed Wei and set it up in Moyang Ping County.
It oversees seven counties and 51,000 households.
Yuancheng is a city born after the Han Dynasty.
Guantao Qingquan hair stems in Wuyang, Yangping and Leping, Cambodia
Wei Jun Han setting.
It oversees eight counties and 40,700 households.
Emperor Wu of Yewei was granted the title and lived in Qianbo.
Changle Weicuo Qiu Anyang Dangyin Neihuanghuangchi is in its west.
Liyang was originally the Kingdom of Lihou.
It was established in the second year of Tongyou in Dunqiu County.
It oversees four counties and 6,300 households.
Dunqiu Fanyang Yin'anwei
After Yongjia, Sizhou fell to Liu Cong.
Liu Cong took Luoyang as Jingsu, and when Shi Qin arrived, he took Luoyang as Sizhou.
Shi Jilong also classified Danye's Jiongmu, Zhidi, Yuandang and Tongye's Sumao and Sailian as pirate industries. After Wu Tong crossed the Liao Dynasty, he also temporarily placed his Dan industry in Xu, not its original location.
Later, the Hongnong people who lived in Xunyang temporarily established Hongnong County.
The Hedong people living in the south temporarily established Hedong County in the Shangming area within the boundaries of Xiaoling County, Wuling County, Han Dynasty, and governed eight counties: Anyi, Wenxi, Yong'an, Linfen, Hongnong, Qiao, Songzi, and Daqi. They all lived there.
In the fifth year of Yonghe's reign, Huan Wen entered Luo and resettled Henan County under the jurisdiction of Sizhou.
Yanzhou.
According to the records in "Yu Gong", Shun set up twelve pastoralists in the land of Jihe, and this was one of them.
"Zhou Rites": Hedong is called Yanzhou.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The flow of five stars is Yanzhou.
Yan, Duan Ye, Xin Ye.
He also said: Yanshui was taken to name the place.
Wutong of the Han Dynasty established the eleventh day, and the old name was Chaye, which will not be changed from now on.
The whole state governs eight counties, fifty-six counties, and 83,300 households.
Chen Liuguo selected settings.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
统县十，户三万。
魏武帝封。
雍丘故杞国。
尉氏襄邑外黄
濮阳国故属东郡，晋初分东郡置。
统县四，户二万一千。
濮阳古昆吾国。
师延为纣作靡靡之乐，即而投此水。公国相。
廪丘公国相。
有羊角城。
白马有瓠子堤。
鄄城公国相。
济阴郡汉置。
统县九，户七千六百。
定陶汉高祖封彭越为梁王，都此。
乘氏故侯国。
句阳离狐宛句己氏成武有楚丘亭。
单父故侯国。
城阳舜所渔，尧冢在西。
高平国。故属梁国，晋初分山阳置。
统县七，户三千八百。
昌邑侯相。
有甲父亭。
钜野鲁获麟所。
方与金乡湖陆高平侯国。
南平阳侯国。
有漆亭。
任城国汉置。
统县三，户一千七百。
任城古任国。
须昌寿张有蚩尤祠。
范无盐富城东平陆刚平
济北国汉置。
统县五，户三千五百。
庐扁鹊所生。
县西有石门。
蛇丘有下灌亭。泰山郡汉置。
统县十一，户九千三百。
translation: 
Oversees ten counties and 30,000 households.
The tomb king fell and was sealed.
The original Kuang sculpture was reclaimed, a place where Ren suffered misfortune.
Pull the original burden Zhou. Qiao Dan Sai Ken Chu Tong
Puyang State originally belonged to Sedeng, and was separated from Zhichu and Saixing.
It oversees four counties and 21,000 households.
The ancient Kunwu country in Puyang.
Zasi scolded Lao for being a lazy person, and immediately threw herself into the river. Prime Minister of the Principality.
Prime Minister of Linqiu Principality.
There is Giethoorn.
There is a gourd embankment on the white horse.
Prime Minister of Juancheng Principality.
Jiyin County setting.
It oversees nine counties, with seven to six hundred households.
Emperor Gaozu of the Dingtao Han Dynasty granted Pengyue the title of King of Liang and made Xiang his capital.
Chuidan was the original prince state.
When Ji's family became a martial artist, there was Chu Qiuting.
Shan's father is from his old country.
Chengyang is where Shun Dang loved fishing, and Yao's tomb is to the west.
Gaoping State originally belonged to Liang State and was separated from Shanyang in the early days of Zhichu.
He was in charge of seven counties, with three cadres and eight hundred corpses.
The Marquis of Changyi.
There is Jiafu Pavilion.
The place where Lu Huolin lived in Ju Ye.
Fang and Jinxiang Hulu Gaoping Hou Kingdom.
The Marquis State of Nanpingyang.
There is Peng Huang.
Set by the Han Dynasty in Rencheng.
Oversaw three counties and 1,700 households.
Renchenggu. true father luang
Dongping Guohan setting. It oversees seven counties and 6,400 households.
Hurricane wrinkles are sleepy. Fan Wuyan Fucheng Dongping Lu Gangping
Jibei Guohan setting.
It oversees five counties and 3,500 households.
The birthplace of Lu Bian Que.
There are five houses in the west of the county.
Linyi Dongagucheng is getting more and more trapped. There is refuge in Snake Hill. Taishan County selection setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 9,300 households.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
奉高西南有明堂。
博有龟山。
南武阳有颛臾城。
莱芜有原山。
东牟故牟国。
钜平有阳关亭。
惠帝之末，兗州阖境沦没石勒。
后石季龙改陈留郡为建昌郡，属洛州。
是时遗黎南渡，元帝侨置兗州，寄居京口。
明帝以郗鉴为刺史，寄居广陵，置濮阳、济阴、高平、太山等郡。
后改为南兗州，或还江南，或居盱眙，或居山阳。
后始割地为境，常居广陵，南与京口对岸。
咸康四年，于北谯界立陈留郡。
安帝分广陵郡之建陵、临江、如皋、宁海、蒲涛五县置山阳郡，属南兗州。
豫州。
案《禹贡》为荆河之地。
《周礼》： 河南曰豫州。
豫者舒也，言禀中和之气，性理安舒也。
《春秋元命包》云： 钩钤星别为豫州。
translation: 
There is a Mingtang directly to the southwest of Taiwan.
There is a royal mountain in the altar.
The country of Xia is located in the land of Hanhou. There are dodders gathered together. Panjuedan is in the northeast.
Qinbao was originally called Chalk Salt.
There is a quiet place in Nanwuyang.
Yuwu has a wish. The original imperial seal.
There are collisions in the chasm. In the last years of Emperor Hui's reign, the entire Yanzhou fell into the hands of Husheng.
Later, Hunulong changed Chenliu County to Jiandandeng, which was a pirate industry.
At that time, the people were sent to the south, and the five children borrowed land to resettle their children's property and live in Saidan.
Dantong was appointed as the governor of Zhengjian and lived in Luyi. He established Yaoyan, Yijian, Chunuo, Lishan and other counties.
Later it was changed to Tong Chong Cong, some returned to Hongnan, some lived in Danxun, and some lived in Yebi.
After that, he began to divide the territory into a territory. He often lived in Guangling, facing Jingkou across the river in the south.
In the fourth year of Shengchen's reign, a speed fish 璺 was set up on the border of Liizhan.
Saitong divided Lu Yisu into five counties: Jiancuo, Duojiang, Huangmu, Zhanjie and Zhabian and established Shanyang County, which belonged to southern Yanzhou.
Mold out.
The case "Yu Gong" is recorded as a place of shaping.
"Zhou Rites": Sunfish appear in Henan.
"Yu" means "shu", which refers to receiving the neutralizing energy and feeling calm and relaxed emotionally and rationally.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Gouling star is the division of fish.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
地界，西自华山，东至于淮，北自济，南界荆山。
秦兼天下，以为三川、河东、南阳、颍川、砀、泗水、薛七郡。
后汉章帝改淮阳曰陈郡。魏武分沛立谯郡，魏文分汝南立弋阳郡。
及武帝受命，又分颍川立襄城都，分汝南立汝阴郡，合陈郡于梁国。州统郡国十，县八十五，户十一万六千七百九十六。
颍川郡秦置。
统县九，户二万八千三百。
许昌汉献帝都许。
魏禅，徙都洛阳，许宫室武库存焉，改为许昌。
长社颍阴临颍公国相。
郾邵陵公国相。
鄢陵公国相。
新汲长平汝南郡汉置。
统县十五，户二万一千五百。
新息南安阳安成侯相。
慎阳北宜春朗陵阳安故江国。
有江亭。
上蔡平舆故沈子国。
有沈亭。
定颍灈阳南顿汝阳吴房故房子国。
西平故柏国。
有龙泉，水可用淬刀剑。
襄城郡泰始二年置。
统县七，户一万八千。
襄城侯相。
有西不羹城。
繁昌魏文受禅于此。
郏定陵侯相。
translation: 
The land boundary starts from Jidian in the west, ends in Zhuzhi and plastics, starts from the border fortress in the north, and is bounded by Pishan Mountain in the south.
Taiwan annexed the whole country and established seven counties: Sancong, Jiongsai, Zhiyan, Ticong, Dan, Huisai and Zheng.
The three clusters were changed to Jiongyisu, and thirteen prefectures were built in Genzhao. The old name of Yingye was not changed. The two counties of Jianyi and Jisai belonged to Sili, and Zhimo belonged to Ke. Before that, swimming was renamed Peijun, Henghe was renamed Zhe, and Rectification was renamed Dui. The parts of Hungry and Wings were separated into Lidiyanying, and they were separated into Danyou at Longchuan.
He also divided the title into Sichuan to establish Xiangyuan Li, divided this mu to establish Ruyin County, and merged the speed sculptures into the chisel seal. The whole state governs ten counties, eighty-five counties, and 116,796 households.
Yingchuan County Taiwan is set up.
It oversees nine counties with 28,300 households.
Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty in Xuchang established his capital here.
Wei succeeded to the throne and moved the capital to Luoyang. Jiang kept the palace arsenal and renamed it Xuchang.
Changshe Yingyin came to the Prime Minister of the Duke of Ying.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Shaoling.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Yanling.
Xinji Changping Runan County Desert was established.
It oversees fifteen counties and 21,500 households.
Xinxi Nananyang Ancheng became the Hou Xiang.
Shenyang North Yichun Langlingyang Angu Jiangguo.
There is Jiangting.
Shang Cai Pingyu originally selected Wang Ken.
There is Shen Pavilion.
Dingying, Zhuoyang, Nandun, Ruyang, and Wufang were originally in Fangguo.
Western Plains Cypress Country.
There is a dragon spring whose water can be used to temper swords.
Xiangcheng County was established in the second year of Taishi.
It oversees seven counties and 18,000 households.
Xiangcheng Houxiang.
There is Xibugencheng.
Emperor Wen of Fanchang succeeded to the throne here.
Dingling Houxiang.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
父城侯相。
昆阳公国相。
舞阳宣帝始封此邑。
汝阴郡魏置郡，后废，泰始二年复置。
统县八，户八千五百。
汝阴故胡子国。
慎故楚邑。
原鹿固始鲖阳新蔡宋侯相褒信
梁国汉置。
统县十二，户一万三千。
睢阳春秋时宋都。
蒙虞下邑有阳山，山有文石。
宁陵故葛伯国。
谷熟陈项长平阳夏武平苦东有赖乡祠，老子所生地。
沛国汉置。
统县九，户五千九十六。
相沛汉高祖所起处。
丰竺邑符离杼秋汶虹萧
谯郡魏置。
统县七，户一千。
谯城父酂山桑龙亢蕲铚
鲁郡汉置。
统县七，户三千五百。
鲁曲阜之地，鲁侯伯禽所居。
汶阳卞邹有绎山。
番故小邾之国。
薛奚仲所封。
公丘
弋阳郡魏置。
统县七，户一万六千七百。
西阳故弦子国。
轪蕲春邾西陵期思弋阳
安丰郡魏置。
统县五，户一千二百。
translation: 
The Prime Minister of the father city.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Kunyang.
Emperor Xuan of Wuyang was first granted this city.
Ruyin County was established as a county by the Wei Dynasty, but was later abolished and reset in the second year of Taishi.
It oversees eight counties and 8,500 households.
Ruyin is the old beard country.
Shen Yuan Chu Yi.
Yuanlu, Gushi, Liyang Xincai Song Houxiang. Testimonials.
Set by Liang Guohan.
It governs twelve counties and 13,000 households.
Suiyang was the capital of the Song Dynasty in the Spring and Autumn Period.
There is Mount Jie in the lower city of Mengyu, and there are patterned stones on the mountain.
The original hammer fell in the air.
There are Laixiang Temples in Paddian, Su, Suedanjiang, Jiping and Kudong, the birthplace of Lao Tzu.
Pei Guohan setting.
It oversees nine counties and 5,096 households.
It was the place where Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised his troops.
Feng, Zhuyi, Fuli, Zhuqiu, Wen, Hongxiao
Qiaojun was established by Wei.
Oversaw seven counties and one thousand households.
Qiao, Chengfu, Feng, Shansang, Longkang, Qi, Zhi.
Lujunhan setting.
It oversees seven counties and 3,500 households.
Lu Qufu is the place where Lu Hou Bo lived in his childhood.
There is Yishan Mountain in Bianzhou, Wenyang.
The country of Jiang Yuandanmai.
Xue Xizhong fiefdom.
Public and mutual
Yiyang County was established by the Wei Dynasty.
It governs seven counties and has 16,700 households.
Xiyang is secluded.
Fu murals are located in Zhi, Qichun, Zhu, Xiling, Qisi and Yiyang.
Anfeng County was established in Wei Dynasty.
It oversees five counties and 1,200 households.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
安风雩娄安丰侯相。
蓼松滋侯相。
惠帝分汝阴立新蔡，分梁国立陈郡，分汝南立南顿。
永嘉之乱，豫州沦没石氏。
元帝渡江，以春谷县侨立襄城郡及繁昌县。
成帝乃侨立豫州于江淮之间，居芜湖。
时淮南入北，乃分丹阳侨立淮南郡，居于湖。
又以旧当涂县流人渡江，侨立为县，并淮南、庐江、安丰并属豫州。
宁康元年，移镇姑孰。
孝武改蕲春县为蕲阳县，因新蔡县人于汉九江王黥布旧城置南新蔡郡，属南豫州。
又于汉庐江郡之南部置晋熙郡。
冀州。
案《禹贡》、《周礼》并为河内之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
《春秋元命包》云： 昴毕散为冀州，分为赵国。
其地有险有易，帝王所都，则冀安，弱则冀强，荒则冀丰。
南行唐灵寿九门侯相。
translation: 
Anfeng, Yulou and Anfeng were the prime ministers.
Polygonum and pine nourish the prime minister.
Emperor Hui divided Ruyin into Xincai County, Liang State into Chen County, and Runan into Nandun.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, Yuzhou fell into the hands of mutual oppression.
After the five boys crossed the silk, they borrowed a chisel to place the fortress wall scepter and chisel Dan calendar.
Sheng Tong placed Yiyeqiao between Kuangsi and Yi, and lived in Xieyi.
At that time, Kuangzhi belonged to the north, so Danyang Qiao was divided into Huainan County, which was located at Wang Yao.
Also, because the refugees from Dangtu County crossed over to Liao Dynasty, the overseas Chinese placed a reward title on Tu, which belongs to the same invitation industry as Sui, Luliao and Baofeng.
In the first year of Kongchen's reign, the school was moved to the town.
Chang Gentong changed Lan Die Zhou to Lan Jiang Se, and the Qian Jiese people established Nan Xincai County in the old city of Chuijiudu Jihu, under the jurisdiction of Musuye.
Jinxi County was set up in the south of Molujiang County.
Jiye.
According to the records of "Yu Gong" and "Zhou Li", they were all located in Hanoi, and they built twelve pastoral areas, and Jiye was one of them.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Pleiades and Bisu are the divisions of Jizhou, which is divided into Zhao State.
The terrain of Jiye is steep in some places and flat in other places. Many emperors in the past dynasties built their capitals here. The world was in chaos but Jizhou was peaceful. The world was poor but Jiye was strong. The world suffered from famine but Jizhou had abundant crops.
The whole state governs 13 counties, 83 counties, and 326,000 households.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
惠帝之后，冀州沦没于石勒。
勒以太兴二年僭号于襄国，称赵。
后为慕容俊所灭，慕容氏又为苻坚所灭。
孝武太元八年，坚败，其地入慕容垂。
垂僭号于中山，是为后燕。
后燕卒灭于魏。
幽州。
案《禹贡》冀州之域，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
《周礼》 东北曰幽州。
《春秋元命包》云： 箕星散为幽州，分为燕国。
言北方太阴，故以幽冥为号。
武王定殷，封召公于燕，其后与六国俱称王。
及秦灭燕，以为渔阳、上谷、右北平、辽西、辽东五郡。
汉高祖分上谷置涿郡。
武帝置十三州，幽州依旧名不改。
其后开东边，置玄菟、乐浪等郡，亦皆属焉。
元凤元年，改燕曰广阳郡。
幽州所部凡九郡，至晋不改。
幽州统都国七，县三十四，户五万九千二十。
范阳国汉置涿郡。
魏文更名范阳郡。
武帝置国，封宣帝弟子绥为王。
translation: 
After Emperor Hui, Jizhou fell into the hands of Shi Le.
In the second year of Taixing, Shi Le usurped the throne and proclaimed himself the king of Xiang State, and the country was named Zhao.
Later, they were eliminated by Murong Ruang, and the Murong family was defeated by Fu Jian.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, Fu Jian failed and the land belonged to Murong Chui.
Murong Chui usurped the throne in Zhongshan and proclaimed himself emperor, which was Hou Yan.
Later Yan was eventually destroyed by Wei.
Youzhou.
In the Jicong area recorded in the case "Yu Gong", Shun built twelve pastoralists, and Youzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Li": Youzhou in the Northeast.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Jixing is the division of Youzhou, which is divided into Yan Kingdom.
It means that the yin energy in the north is extremely strong, so it is called Netherworld.
King Wu of Zhou defeated the Yin Shang Dynasty and granted the title of Duke Zhao to Yan. Later, Yan and the other six vassal states became kings.
After Qin destroyed Yan, it established five counties: Yuyang, Shanggu, Youbeiping, Liaoxi and Liaodong.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty divided Shanggu into Zhuo County.
Emperor Wu established thirteen states, and Youzhou continued to use its old name without any change.
After that, Shubu was developed and counties such as Xuantu and Lelang were established, all of which were affiliated with Youzhou.
In the first year of Yuanfeng, Yan was renamed Guangyang County.
There were nine counties under the jurisdiction of Youzhou, which remained unchanged until the Jin Dynasty.
Youzhou governs seven counties, thirty-four counties, and 59,020 households.
Zhuojun was established in the desert of Fanyang State.
Emperor Wen of Wei changed its name to Fanyang County.
Emperor Wu of Jin established the kingdom and named Sima Sui, the son of Emperor Xuan's younger brother, as King Fan Yang.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
统县八，户一万一千。
涿良乡方城长乡遒故安范阳容城侯相。
燕国汉置，孝昭改为广阳郡。
统县十，户二万九千。
蓟安次侯相。
昌平军都有关。
广阳潞安乐国相。
蜀主刘禅封此县公。
泉州侯相。
雍奴狐奴
北平郡秦置。
统县四，户五千。
徐无土垠俊靡无终
上谷郡秦置，郡在谷之上头，故因名焉。
统县二，户四千七十。
沮阳居庸
广宁郡故属上谷，太康中置郡，都尉居。
统县三，户三千九百五十。
下洛潘涿鹿
代郡。秦置。
统县四，户三千四百。
代广昌平舒当城
辽西郡秦置。
统县三，户二千八百。
阳乐肥如海阳
惠帝之后，幽州没于石勒。
及穆帝永和五年，慕容俊僭早于蓟，是为前燕。
七年，俊移都于鄴。
俊死，子为苻坚所灭。
坚败，地复入慕容垂，是为后燕。
垂死，宝迁于和龙。
平州。
translation: 
It oversees eight counties and 11,000 households.
Zhuoliang Township Fangcheng Changxiang Qiu An Fan Yang Rongcheng Hou Xiang.
Set in Yan Guohan. Emperor Xiaozhao changed it to Guangyang County.
统管十县，二万九千户。
Ji'an is the second Hou Xiang.
There are neat seals in Changping.
Prime Minister of Lu'an, Guangyang.
Liu Chan, the Lord of Shu, was once granted the title of Lord Anle.
The Marquis of Quanzhou.
Yongnu fox slave
Beiping County was established in Qin Dynasty.
Oversees four counties and 5,000 households.
Xu Wutuyin's handsomeness has no end
The Qin Dynasty established Shanggu County, and the county was located above the valley, so it was called.
Oversaw two counties and 4,070 households.
Juyang Juyong
Guangning County originally belonged to Shanggu. During the Taikang period, it was established as a county and the captain lived here.
Oversaw three counties and 3,950 households.
Xialuopan Zhuolu
Dai Jun Qin set up.
It oversees four counties and 3,400 households.
Pingshudang City, Guangchang City
Liaoxi County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees three counties and 2,800 households.
Yangle is as fat as Haiyang
After Emperor Hui, Youzhou fell to Huqin.
In the fifth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, Murong Jun became king in Ji position, which was called Bingji.
In the seventh year, Murong Jun moved the capital to Ye.
After Fang Rongyi died, his son Tomb Rongduo was eliminated by Dengjian.
After the failure of Dengjian, the land returned to the tomb and was called Likui.
After Ji Zhou'an's death, Nie Rongxuan moved to Niulong.
Pingzhou.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
案《禹贡》冀州之域，于周为幽州界，汉属右北平郡。
后汉末，公孙度自号平州牧。及其子康、康子文懿并擅据辽东，东夷九种皆服事焉。
魏置东夷校尉，居襄平，而分辽东、昌黎、玄菟、带方、乐浪五郡为平州，后还合为幽州。
及文懿灭后，有护东夷校尉，居襄平。
咸宁二年十月，分昌黎、辽东、玄菟、带方、乐浪等郡国五置平州。
统县二十六，户一万八千一百。
昌黎郡汉属辽东属国都尉，魏置郡。
统县二，户九百。
昌黎宾徒
辽东国秦立为郡。
汉光武以辽东等属青州，后还幽州。
统县八，户五千四百。
襄平东夷校尉所居。
汶居就乐就安市西安平新昌力城
乐浪郡汉置。
统县六，户三千七百。朝鲜周封箕子地。
屯有浑弥遂城秦筑长城之所起。
镂方驷望
玄菟郡汉置。
统县三，户三千二百。
高句丽望平高显
带方郡公孙度置。
统县七，户四千九百。
translation: 
The case "Yu Gong" records that it belongs to the Jizhou area, within Youcong during the Zhou Dynasty, and it belonged to Youbeiping County at the time of selection.
At the end of the period of Penghuan, Gongji only called himself Wang Mu, and his son Gongjichen and Gongzhuchen's son Gongji Saiyi occupied Liaosai without authorization, and all the tribes of Dongyi surrendered to them.
Shuyi Xiaowei was appointed in Xiangping, and the five counties of Liaosai, Dandian, Baotu, Yingli, and Luantui were divided into Chuicong, and then re-merged into Youye.
After the padding was reduced, there was a guard who guarded Dongyi, and the place of administration was Xiangping.
In October of the second year of Xianning, five prefectures, namely Changli, Liaosai, Ketu, Yingzuo and Luantui, were separated to establish Chuye.
It oversees 26 counties and 18,100 households.
Changli County Lianshi was the capital of the Liaodong vassal state, and Zhan was established as a county.
Take charge of two counties and 900 households.
Changli guests
Liaodong Guotai was established as a county.
Emperor Guangwu of the Han Dynasty made Liaodong and others belong to Qingzhou, and later returned to Youye.
Oversaw eight counties with 5,400 properties.
The location of Xiangping Dongyi School Lieutenant.
Wenju Lejuan City Xi'an Ping Xinchang Licheng
Lelang County is also set up.
Oversaw six counties, three thousand. The place granted to King Yu by Zhou Dynasty in North Korea.
There is Hunmi Suicheng in Tun, where the Qin Dynasty built the Great Wall.
Carved square gaze
Xuantu County Lotus setting.
It oversees three counties and 3,200 households.
Goguryeo is prosperous and prosperous
Gongsundu of Daifang County was established.
He was in charge of seven counties and had 4,900 corpses.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
带方列口南新长岑提奚含资海冥
平州初置，以慕容廆为刺史，遂属永嘉之乱，廆为众所推。及其孙俊移都于蓟。
其后慕容垂子宝又迁于和龙，自幽州至子庐溥镇以南地入于魏。
慕容熙以幽州刺史镇令支，青州刺史镇新城，并州刺史镇凡城，营州刺史镇宿军，冀州刺史镇肥如。
高云以幽、冀二州牧镇肥如，并州刺史镇白狼。
后为冯跋所篡，跋僭号于和龙，是为后燕，卒灭于魏。
并州。
案《禹贡》盖冀州之域，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
《周礼》：正北曰并州，其镇曰恆山。
《春秋元命包》云： 营室流为并州，分为卫国。
州不以卫水为号，又不以恆山为称，而云并者，盖以其在两谷之间也。
汉武帝置十三州，并州依旧名不改，统上党、太原、云中、上郡、雁门、代郡、定襄、五原、西河、朔方十郡，又别置朔方刺史。
后汉建武十一年，省朔方入并州。
灵帝末，羌胡大扰，定襄、云中、五原、朔方、上郡等五郡并流徙分散。
建安十八年，省入冀州。
二十年，始集塞下荒地立新兴郡，后又分上党立乐平郡。
魏黄初元年，复置并州，自陉岭以北并弃之，至晋因而不改。
translation: 
Lead Fang Liekou Nan Xin Chang Cen Ti Xi Han Zi Hai Ming
When Pingzhou was first established, Murong Xin was appointed as the governor. During the Chengtai Rebellion, Ling Xin was elected as the leader. When Murong Pang's grandson Fuchaan moved the capital to Ji.
After that, Jikui Na's son Jiao Xuanxuan moved to Yulang and was buried in the tomb from Youye to the area south of Lu Zunzhuang.
As the governor of Tang Ye, Xue Li guarded Quanzhi, the governor of Yiye guarded Qixu, the governor of Chaiye guarded Qiqiu, the governor of business guarded Xuanli, and the governor of Jizhou guarded Danmen.
Chan Zhou was the herdsman of You and Jizhou to guard the inside, and the governor of Jiangye guarded the imperial orangutan.
Later, he usurped power when he encountered a wall and usurped the throne in Niulong. He became the Hou Yan and was eventually destroyed by Wei.
Bingzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it belongs to the Jizhou area. Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Bingzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Li": The due north is called Bingzhou, and its town is called Hengshan.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Shisu is the division of Bingzhou, corresponding to Weiguo.
This prefecture is neither named after Weishui nor Hengshan Mountain. The reason why it is called Merger is because it is located between the two mountains.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established thirteen prefectures, and Bing prefectures continued to use their old names without changing. They governed the ten counties of Shangdang, Taiyuan, Yunzhong, Shangjun, Yanmen, Daijun, Dingxiang, Wuyuan, Xihe, and Shuofang. They also appointed the governor of Shuofang.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign in Houmo, Shuofang was abolished and merged into Bingzhou.
In the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, the Qiang invaded and invaded extensively, and the people in the five counties of Dingxiang, Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang, and Shangjun were displaced and scattered in other places.
In the 18th year of Jian'an, the state merger was canceled and merged into Jizhou.
In the 20th year, the wasteland under the fortress was collected to establish Xinxing County, and later Shangdang was separated to establish Leping County.
In the first year of Wei Huangchu, Bingzhou was re-established, and the area north of Xingling was abandoned until the Jin Dynasty.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
并州统郡国六，县四十五，户五万九千二百。
太原国秦置。
统县十三，户一万四千。
晋阳侯相。
阳曲榆次于离盂狼孟阳邑大陵祁平陶京陵中都邬
上党郡秦置。
统县十，户一万三千。
潞屯留壶关长子泫氏高都铜鞮涅襄垣武乡
西河国汉置。
统县四，户六千三百。
离石隰城中阳介休
乐平郡泰始中置。
统县五，户四千三百。
沾上艾寿阳阳乐平雁门郡秦置。
统县八，户一万二千七百。
广武崞氵枉陶平城葰人繁畤原平马邑
新兴郡魏置。
统县五，户九千。
九原定襄云中广牧晋昌
惠帝改新兴为晋昌郡。
及永兴元年，刘元海僭号于平阳，称汉，于是并州之地皆为元海所有。
元海乃以雍州刺史镇平阳，幽州刺史镇离石。
及刘聪攻陷洛阳，置左右司隶，各领户二十余万，万户置一内史，凡内史四十三人，单于左右辅各主六夷。
又置殷、卫、东梁、西河阳、北兗五州，以怀安新附。
translation: 
Bingzhou governs six counties, 45 counties, and 59,300 households.
Taiyuan traditional Chinese painting setting.
It oversees 13 counties and 14,000 households.
The Marquis of Jinyang.
Yangqu Yuci is located in Li Mengyang, Yangzhou, Daling, Qiping, Tao Jingling, Zhongdu, Wu
Shangdang County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 13,000 households.
The eldest son of Liu Huguan in Lutun was born in Gaodu Tongtan, the eldest son of Huguan, Xiangyuan Wuxiang
Xihe Guohan setting.
It oversees four counties and 6,300 households.
Li Shixi City Zhongyang Jiexiu
It was established during the Taishi period of Leping County.
It oversees five counties and 4,300 households.
The teapot set in Yanmen County, Leping, Yangzhou is stained with Ai Shouyang.
It oversees eight counties and 12,700 households.
Guangwu, Guangwu, Taoping, Chengjingren, Fangui, Yuanping, Mayi
Emerging County Settings.
He oversees five counties and nine thousand households.
Jiuyuan Dingxiang Yunzhong Guangmu Jinchang
Emperor Hui changed Xinxing's name to Jinchang County.
In the first year of Yongxing, Liu Yuanhai usurped the throne in Pingyang and called himself Mo. At that time, all the land in Bingzhou belonged to Liu Yuanhai.
Liu Yuanhai appointed the governor of Yongzhou to guard Pingyang and the governor of Youzhou to guard Lishi.
After Liu Cong captured Luoyang, he set up left and right ministers, each commanding more than 200,000 households. Every 10,000 households had an internal secretary, with a total of forty-three internal historians. The left and right shanyus each controlled the six tribes of barbarians.
The five prefectures of Yin, Wei, Dongliang, Xiheyang, and Beiyan were also set up to appease the newly surrendered people.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
刘曜徙都长安，其平阳以东地入石勒。
勒平朔方，又置朔州。
自惠怀之间，离石县荒废，勒于其处置永石郡，又别置武乡郡。
及苻坚、姚兴、赫连勃勃，并州并徙置河东，又姚兴以河东为并、冀二州云。雍州。
案《禹贡》黑水、西河之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
以其四山之地，故以雍名焉。
亦谓西北之位，阳所不及，阴气雍阏也。《周礼》：西曰雍州。
盖并禹梁州之地。
周自武王克殷，都于酆镐，雍州为王畿。
及平王东迁洛邑，以岐酆之地赐秦襄公，则为秦地，累世都之，至始皇遂平六国。
秦灭，汉又都之。
及武帝置十三州，其地以西偏为凉州，其余并属司隶，不统于州。
后汉光武都洛阳，关中复置雍州。
后罢，复置司隶校尉，统三辅如旧。
献帝时又置雍州，自三辅距西域皆属焉。
魏文帝即位，分河西为凉州，分陇右为秦州，改京兆尹为太守，冯翊、扶风各除左右，仍以三辅属司隶。
晋初于长安置雍州，统郡国七，县三十九，户九万九千五百。
京兆郡汉置。
translation: 
Liu Yao moved the capital to Chang'an, and the area surrounding Pingyan was owned by Huchi.
They worked together to pacify the city of Suli, and established the city of Suzhou.
During the period of Saitong and Huaihu, Panwuxun was abandoned and Wuqin established Yongshi County and Wuxiang County in the local area.
When Fu Jian, Yao Xing, and Helian Bobo moved their business to Hedong, they divided Hedong into two states: Bing and Ji. Yongzhou.
According to the records in "Yu Gong", in the land of Heishui and Xihe, Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Yongzhou was one of them.
Because the terrain is surrounded by mountains, it is named after Yong.
It also means that the northwest position is where Yang Qi cannot reach and Yin Qi is blocked and accumulated. "Zhou Rites": The west is called Yongzhou.
It is a place of digging industry during bad times.
After Guizi Genwang Kebi, the capital was Fengyan, and the business belonged to Wang Ji.
When King Shu of Ping of Zhou Dynasty moved to Tao Dan, he gave the area of ​​Tui and He to the Duke of Taisei. From then on, the land became the platform, and successive generations used it as their capital until Qin Shihuang pacified the Six Kingdoms.
After the fall of the Qin Dynasty, the Han Dynasty established its capital here again.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, half of the land in the western part of Yiye was assigned to Tieye, and the rest of the land belonged to Sili and was not under the jurisdiction of the states.
Emperor Guangwu of the Later Han Dynasty established Luoyang as the capital, and Yongzhou was re-established in the Guanzhong area.
Later, it was canceled and the Sili Xiaowei was appointed to command the three auxiliaries as before.
During the reign of Emperor Xian, Yongzhou was again established. From Sanfu to Youqiu, they all belonged to Yongye.
When Yi Saitong came to the throne, he divided Huixi into Suye and Longxi into Tongye. He changed Sai Lioyin into the prefecture and canceled the left and right wings? Medical Phoenix still belongs to Sili as the third assistant.
At the beginning of the Jin Dynasty, Zong maggot was placed in Changzhong, and he was in charge of seven commanderies, thirty-nine counties, and 99,500 households.
It was set up in Jingzhao County.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
统县九，户四万。
长安杜陵霸城蓝田高陆万年故栎阳县。
新丰阴般郑周宣王弟郑桓公邑。
冯翊郡汉置，名左冯翊。
统县八，户七千七百。
临晋。故大荔，秦获之，更名。
有河水祠，祠临晋水，故名。
下邽秦武公伐邽戎，置有上邽，故加下。
重泉频阳秦厉公置，在频水之阳。
粟邑莲芍郃阳夏阳故少梁，秦惠文王更名。
梁山在西北。
扶风郡汉武帝以为主爵都尉，太初中更名右扶风。
统县六，户二万三千。
池阳汉惠帝置。
有嶻山。
郿成国渠首受渭。
雍侯相。有五畤、太昊、黄帝以下祠三百三所。
汧吴山在西，古文以为汧山。陈仓美阳岐山在西北，周太王所邑。
安定郡汉置。
统县七，户五千五百。
临泾朝那乌氏都卢鹑觚阴密殷时密国。
西川
北地郡秦置。
统县二，户二千六百。
泥阳富平
始平郡泰始二年置。
统县五，户一万八千。
translation: 
It oversees nine counties and 40,000 households.
Chang'an Duling dominated the city and Lantian Gaoliu lived in Yueyang County for thousands of years.
Xinfengyin is the city of Zheng Huan, the younger brother of King Zhouxuan of Zheng.
Feng Yijun was established in the Han Dynasty and was called Zuo Youchi.
It oversees eight counties and 7,700 households.
Linjin was originally Dali, but it was renamed after Qin acquired this place.
There is a river temple, and the temple is located on the edge of the Jinshui River, so it is called.
When Duke Wu of the Qin Dynasty conquered Xiaguang, he set up Shanggui, so Xia was added here.
Chongquan Pinyang was built by Qin Ligong, located in the north of Qu.
Su Yilian Shao Heyang Xia Yang died in Shaoliang, and was renamed by King Qin Huiwen.
Liangshan is in its northwest.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty used Fufeng County as the title of Duke Duwei, and in the Yue Dynasty, it was renamed Youfufeng.
Oversaw six counties and 23,000 households.
Chiyang was built by Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty.
There is Mount Eyi.
The place where the pressure is overwhelming and friends are squinting. The Prime Minister of Yu.
There are 303 ancestral halls below Wuzhen, Taihao and Huangdi.
Qianwu Mountain is in its west, which is called Qishan Chencang in ancient Chinese. Meiyangqishan is in its northwest. It was the fiefdom of King Tai of Zhou.
An Dingjun and Han Dynasties were set up.
It oversees seven counties and 5,500 households.
Linjing is facing the secret country of Nawu's capital Lu Quaigu.
Nishikawa
Hokujiguntai setting.
Oversaw two counties and 2,600 households.
Niyang Fuping
It was established in the second year of Taipan in Shiping County.
It oversees five counties and 18,000 households.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
槐里秦曰废丘，汉高帝更名。
有黄山宫。
始平武功太一山在东，古文以为终南。
鄠古国，夏启所伐。
蒯城
新平郡汉置。
统县二，户二千七百。
漆漆水在西。
汾邑
惠帝即位，改扶风国为秦国。
徙都。建兴之后，雍州没于刘聪。
及刘曜徙都长安，改号曰赵，以秦、凉二州牧镇上邽，朔州牧镇高平，幽州刺史镇北地，并州牧镇蒲坂。
石勒克长安，复置雍州。
石氏既败，苻健僭据关中，又都长安，是为前秦。
于是乃于雍州置司隶校尉，以豫州刺史镇许昌，秦州刺史镇上邽，荆州刺史镇丰阳，洛州刺史镇宜阳，并州刺史镇蒲坂。
苻坚时，分司隶为雍州，分京兆为咸阳郡，洛州刺史镇陕城。
translation: 
Huaili was named Feiqiu during the Qin Dynasty, but was renamed by Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty.
There is Huangshan Palace.
The second branch of Shiping's martial arts master is located in the east, which is called Zhongke in ancient Chinese.
The ancient country of Hu, a country that Xia Qi conquered.
Kuacheng
Xinping County congestion is set up.
Under the jurisdiction of two counties, there are 2,700 households.
The lacquer water is to the west.
Fenyi
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and changed Fufeng State into Qin State.
After Jianxing, Yongzhou fell into the hands of Liu Cong.
At the time of Liu Yao, the capital was moved to Chang'an and renamed Zhao. The two prefectures of Qin and Liang guarded Shanggui, Shuo Prefecture held Gaoping, the governor Youye guarded Beidi, and Bing Prefecture guarded Puban.
Mutual diligence conquers day and night, and then sets up obstacles.
After the mutual defeat, Xun Jian usurped the throne and occupied the center of the alliance. He also established the capital and cultivated fortresses, creating the merger of Taiwan.
At that time, Sili Xiaowei was set up in Yuzhou. The governor of Yuchu was to guard Zhudan, the governor of Taizhou was to guard Dan, the governor of Xingye was to guard Chengying, the governor of fishery was to guard Xuanwu, and the governor of Chaiye was to guard Zhabao.
During the reign of Dengjian, the branch division was assigned to Yongye, and the branch division was assigned to Xianyang County. Suqiu was guarded by the governor of Suiye.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
灭燕之后，分幽州置平州，镇龙城，幽州刺史镇蓟城，河州刺史镇桴罕，并州刺史镇晋阳，豫州刺史镇洛阳，兗州刺史镇仓垣，雍州刺史镇蒲坂。
于是移洛州居丰阳，以许昌置东豫州，以荆州刺史镇襄阳，徐州刺史镇彭城。
即而姚苌灭苻氏，是为后秦。
及苌子兴克洛阳，以并、冀二州牧镇蒲坂，豫州牧镇洛阳，兗州刺史镇仓垣，分司隶领北五郡，置幽州刺史镇安定。
及姚泓为刘裕所灭，其地寻入赫连勃勃。
勃勃僭号于统万，是为夏。
置幽州牧于大城，又平刘义真于长安，遣子璝镇焉，号曰南台。
以朔州牧镇三城，秦州刺史镇杏城，雍州刺史镇阴密，并州刺史镇蒲坂，梁州牧镇安定，北秦州刺史镇武功，豫州牧镇李闰，荆州刺史镇陕，其州郡之名并不可知也。
然自元帝渡江，所置州亦皆遥领。
初以魏该为雍州刺史，镇酂城，寻省，侨立始平郡，寄居武当城。
translation: 
After deceleration, Fendiye set up a sanitary industry, and the state government was located at Yiying. The governor of Youye guarded Shacheng, the governor of Huiye guarded Danzhi, the governor of Chaiye guarded Zuchang, the governor of Yingzhou guarded Taoli, the governor of Yanye guarded Cangyuan, and the governor of Yongzhou guarded Puban.
So Luozhou was moved to Fengyang, East Yuzhou was placed in Xuchang, Xiangyang was guarded by the governor of Jingzhou, and Pengcheng was guarded by the governor of Xuzhou.
Soon Yao Chang defeated the Fu family and became the Later Qin Dynasty.
After Yao Xing, the son of Yao Chang, attacked Luoyang, he used Bing and Jizhou Mu to guard Puban, Yuzhou Mu guarded Luoyang, Yanzhou governor guarded Cangyuan, and divided the division to command the five northern counties, and set up Yongzhou governor to guard Anding.
After Yao Hong was eliminated by Liu Yu, these areas were successively owned by Helian Bobo.
Helian Bobo claimed the throne in Tongwan, and this was Xia.
He established Youzhou Mu in the big city, and pacified Liu Yizhen in Chang'an. He sent his son Heliansuo to guard the area, which he named Nantai.
The governor of Shuozhou guarded the three cities, the governor of Qinzhou guarded Xingcheng, the governor of Yongzhou guarded Yinmi, the governor of Bingzhou guarded Puban, the governor of Liangzhou guarded An'ing, the governor of Beiqinzhou guarded Wugong, the governor of Yuzhou guarded Li Run, and the governor of Jingzhou guarded Shaanxi. The names of the prefectures and counties at that time are unknown.
However, after Emperor Yuan crossed the Yangtze River south, the states and states they established also had remote leaders, that is, official officials were appointed in name.
At first, Wei Gai was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou and guarded Zoucheng. Later, it was canceled and Shiping County was established. The county seat was temporarily in Wudang City.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
有秦国流人至江南，改堂邑为秦郡，侨立尉氏县属焉。
康帝时，庾翼为荆州刺史，迁镇襄阳。
其后秦雍流人多南出樊沔，孝武始于襄阳侨立雍州，仍立京兆、始平、扶风、河南、广平、义成、北河南七郡，并属襄阳。
襄阳故属荆州。
凉州。
案《禹贡》雍州之西界，周衰，其地为狄。
秦兴美阳甘泉宫，本匈奴铸金人祭天之处。
匈奴既失甘泉，又使休屠、浑邪王等居凉州之地。二王后以地降汉，汉置张掖、酒泉、敦煌、武威郡。
其后又置金城郡，谓之河西五郡。
汉改周之雍州为凉州，盖以地处西方，常寒凉也。
地势西北邪出，在南山之间，南隔西羌，西通西域，于时号为断匈奴右臂。
献帝时，凉州数有乱，河西五郡去州隔远，于是乃别以为雍州。
末又依古典定九州，乃合关右以为雍州。
魏时复分以为凉州，刺史领戊己校尉，护西域，如汉故事，至晋不改。
translation: 
Some people from the Qin State fled to the south of the Yangtze River and renamed Tangyi as Qin County. The overseas Chinese established Weishi County and belonged to Qin County.
During the reign of Emperor Kangxi, Yu Yi was appointed governor of Jingzhou and moved to Xiangyang.
After that, many exiled people from Qin and Yong went south to Fan and Mian. Emperor Xiaowu began to establish Yongzhou in Xiangyang, and still established the seven counties of Jingzhao, Shiping, Fufeng, Huiyi, Guangchuan, Yicheng, and Beihenan, all belonging to Xiangyang.
Xiangyang originally belonged to Jingzhou.
Liangzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it was the western border of Yiye. After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, this area was owned by Di.
Meiyang Ganquan Palace built by the Qin Dynasty was originally a place where the Xiongnu made gold figures to worship heaven.
After the Xiongnu lost Ganquan, they sent Xiutu, King Hunxie and others to occupy the territory of Liangzhou. The two kings later surrendered their lands to the Han, and the Han built Zhangye, Jiuquan, Dunhuang, and Daqingxun.
Later, Jin Zhengxuan was established and called Huiyou Five Commanderies.
Lian renamed Yongzhou in Zhou Dynasty to Liangzhou because it was located in the west and was cold all year round.
The terrain of Liangzhou stretches diagonally to the northwest, between the Nanshan Mountains, cutting off the Western Qiang in the south, and leading to the Western Regions in the west. At that time, it was called the broken right arm of the carp.
During the reign of Lu Tong, maggots rebelled repeatedly. The five counties in the west were far away from the state capital, so they designated another area as Yongzhou.
Finally, based on ancient classics, the world was designated as Jiuzhou, and the five counties in Hexi and Guanyou were combined into Yongzhou.
In the Wei Dynasty, Liangzhou was also divided, and the governor also served as Wuji Xiaowei to defend the Western Regions. The old system was the same as that in the Han Dynasty, and it did not change until the Jin Dynasty.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
统郡八，县四十六，户三万七百。
金城郡汉置。
统县五，户二千。
榆中允街金城白土浩亹
西平郡汉置。
统县四，户四千
西都临羌长宁安夷
武威郡汉置。
统县七，户五千九百。
姑臧宣威揖次仓松显美骊靬番禾
张掖郡汉置。
统县三，户三千七百。
永平临泽汉昭武县，避文帝讳改也。
屋兰汉因屋兰名焉。
西郡汉置。
统县五，户一千九百。
日勒删丹仙提万岁兰池一云兰绝池。
酒泉郡汉置。
统县九，户四千四百。
福禄会水安弥骍马乐涫表氏延寿玉门沙头敦煌郡汉置。
统县十二，户六千三百。
昌蒲敦煌龙勒阳关效谷广至宜禾宜安深泉伊吾新乡乾齐
西海郡故属张掖，汉献帝兴平二年，武威太守张雅请置。
统县一，户二千五百。
居延泽在东南，《尚书》所谓流沙也。
元康五年，惠帝分敦煌郡之宜禾、伊吾、宜安、深泉、广至等五县，分酒泉之沙头县，又别立会稽、新乡，凡八县为晋昌郡。
translation: 
It governs eight counties, 46 counties, and 30,700 households.
Jincheng County Han setting.
He oversees five counties and 2,000 households.
Yuzhong Yun Street Jincheng White Earth Havoc
Xiping County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
He was in charge of four counties and 4,000 households.
The Western Capital is Linqiang, Changning and Anyi
Wuwei Junhan setting.
It oversees seven counties and 5,900 households.
Guzang Xuanwei Yi Cangsong Xianmei Li Xuanfanhe
Zhangye County Han setting.
It oversees three counties and 3,700 households.
Yongping Linzemo Zhaowu County, to avoid Emperor Wen's taboo to change.
Wulanhan is named after Wulan.
Xijun Han setting.
It oversees five counties and 1,900 households.
Rile Xian Dan Xian Ti Long Live Orchid Pond said Orchid Jue Po Pond.
Jiuquan County election setting.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 4,400 properties.
Fu Lu Hui Shui An Mi Pong Ma Le Chuo Biao Shi Longshou Yumen Shatou Day Yulong Sunbathing
Dunhuang County setting. It oversees twelve counties and 6,300 households.
Changpu, Dunhuang, Longle, Yangguan, Xiaoguangzhi, Yihe, Yi'an, Shenquan, Yiwu, Xinxiang, Qianqi
Xihai County originally belonged to Zhangye. In the second year of Xingping reign of Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Ya, the prefect of Wuwei, requested to build it.
Under the jurisdiction of one county, there are 2,500 households.
Juyanze is located in the southeast, which is called quicksand in "Shangshu".
In the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui separated five counties from Dunhuang County: Yihe, Yiwu, Yi'an, Shenquan, and Guangzhi, Jiuquan Bishatou County, and separate Kuaiji and Xinxiang counties. A total of eight counties were established as Jinchang County.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
永宁中，张轨为凉州刺史，镇武威，上表请合秦雍流移人于姑臧西北，置武兴郡，统武兴、大城、乌支、襄武、晏然、新鄣、平狄、司监等县。
又分西平界置晋兴郡，统晋兴、枹罕、永固、临津、临鄣、广昌、大夏、遂兴、罕唐、左南等县。
是时中原沦没，元帝徙居江左，轨乃控据河西，称晋正朔，是为前凉。
及张寔，分金城之令居、枝阳二县，又立永登县，合三县立广武郡。
张茂分武兴、金城、西平、安故为定州。
张骏分武威、武兴、西平、张掖、酒泉、建康、西海、西郡、湟河、晋兴、广武合十一郡为凉州，兴晋、金城、武始、南安、永晋、大夏、武成、汉中为河州，敦煌、晋昌、高昌、西域都护、戊己校尉、玉门大护军三郡三营为沙州。
张骏假凉州都督，摄三州。
张祚又以敦煌郡为商州。
永兴中，置汉阳县以守牧地，张玄靓改为祁连郡。
张天锡又别置临松郡。
天锡降于苻氏，其地寻为吕光所据。
吕光都于姑臧后，以郭黁言谶，改昌松为东张掖郡。
及吕隆降于姚兴，其地三分。
武昭王为西凉，建号于敦煌，秃发乌孤为南凉，建号于乐都沮渠蒙逊为北凉，建号于张掖。
而分据河西五郡。
秦州。
案《禹贡》本雍州之域，魏始分陇右置焉，刺史领护羌校尉，中间暂废。
及泰始五年，又以雍州陇右五郡及凉州之金城、梁州之阴平，合七郡置秦州，镇冀城。
太康三年，罢秦州，并雍州。
七年，复立，镇上邽。
translation: 
During the Yongning period, Zhang Gui was appointed governor of Liangzhou and guarded Wuwei. He requested that the people who migrated during the Qin and Yong Dynasties be concentrated in the northwest of Guzang and set up Wuxing County to take charge of Wuxing, Dacheng, Wuzhi, Xiangwu, Yanran, Xinzhang, Pingdi, Sijian and other counties.
Jinxing County was also established within the Xiping boundary to take charge of Jinxing, Wuhan, Yonggu, Linjin, Linzhang, Guangchang, Daxia, Suixing, Hantang, Zuonan and other counties.
At that time, the Central Plains fell and Emperor Yuan moved to Jiangshu. Zhang Gui controlled and occupied the Hexi area and used the Jin calendar to create Qianliang.
When arriving at Zhangku, the two counties of Lingju and Zhiyang in Jincheng County were divided, and they were combined with the three newly established counties of Yongdeng County to form Guangwu County.
Zhang Mao divided Wuxing, Jincheng, Xiping and Angu into Dingzhou.
Zhang Jun divided the eleven counties of Wuwei, Wuxing, Xiping, Zhangye, Jiuquan, Jiankang, Xihai, Xijun, Huanghe, Jinxing, and Guangwu into Liangzhou, Xingjin, Jincheng, Wushi, Nan'an, Yongjin, Daxia, Wucheng, and Hanzhong were Hezhou, and Dunhuang, Jinchang, Gaochang, and the three counties and battalions of the Western Regions Protector, Wuji Xiaowei, and Yumen Protector Army were Shazhou.
Zhang Jun is temporarily the governor of Liangzhou and leads the three states on his behalf.
Zhang Zuo also changed Dunhuang County to Shangzhou.
During the Yongxing period, Huanyang County was set up as a pastoral area, and Zhang Xuanliang was changed to Qilian County.
Zhang Tianxi also established Linsong County.
Tianxi surrendered to the Fu family, and its lands were successively occupied by Lu Guang.
After Lü Guang made Guzang the capital, he changed Dansuan to Shu Zhangye County because of Guo Mo's prophecy.
When Danlong surrendered to Xingxuan, the land was divided into three parts.
King Wu Ya became Yousu and established his country in Dunhuang. It is better for the bald Wu Gu to speed up and build the country in Luan Chi. Juqu Mengxun is a plastic plug, inviting the founding of the country.
The three parties respectively occupied five counties in Hexi.
Qinzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that this area was originally a Yongye area. At the time of the tomb, it was first divided into the west of Longshan Mountain to house rooms. The governor also served as the guardian of Qiang. There was a period in the middle when this establishment was temporarily abolished.
In the fifth year of Taiyimian, the five counties in the west of Yongyelu, the seven counties in Jinqiu and Zhiye's Tuochao were combined to build Seye, and the town was located in Jixu.
In the third year of Zhuchen's reign, Taiye was abolished and merged into Yongye.
In the seventh year, Formosa Plastics was built and built on top of the town.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
统郡六，县二十四，户三万二千一百。
陇西郡秦置。
统县四，户三千。
襄武首阳乌鼠山在东。
临洮狄道
南安郡汉置。
统县三，户四千三百。
獂道新兴中陶
天水郡汉武置，孝明改为汉阳，晋复为天水。
统县六，户八千五百。
上邽冀秦州故居。
始昌新阳显新汉显亲县。
成纪略阳郡本名广魏，泰始中更名焉。
统县四，户九千三百二十。
临渭平襄略阳清水
武都郡汉置。
统县五，户三千。
下辩河池沮武都故道
阴平郡泰始中置。
统县二，户三千。
阴平平广
惠帝分陇西之狄道、临洮、河关，又立洮阳、遂平、武街、始兴、第五、真仇六县，合九县置狄道郡，属秦州。
张骏分属凉州，又以狄道县立武始郡。
江左分梁为秦，寄居梁州，又立氐池为北秦州。
梁州。
案《禹贡》华阳黑水之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
梁者，言西方金刚之气强梁，故因名焉。
translation: 
It oversees six counties, 24 counties, and 32,100 households.
Longxi Juntai is set up.
Take charge of four counties and 3,000 households.
Wushu Mountain in Shouyang, Xiangwu is to the east.
Lintao Didao
Nan'an County selection setting.
It oversees three counties and 4,300 households.
Xingdao Xinzhong Pottery
Tianshui County was established in Gencha, Emperor Xiaoming changed it to Hanyang, and Jin Dynasty was renamed Tianshui County.
It oversees six counties and 8,500 households.
The seat of Congyuan Prefecture in Shanggui, Hebei Province.
Shichang Xinyang Xinhan Xianqin County. Chengji
The original name of Lueyang County was Guangwei, and the name was changed during the Taishi period.
It oversees four counties and 9,320 households.
Linwei Pingxiang Lueyang Qingshui
Set in the desert of Wudu County.
He oversees five counties and 3,000 households.
The old road of Xia Bianhe Pond and Juwudu
It was established during the Taishi period of Yinping County.
Take charge of two counties and 3,000 households.
Yin Ping Ping Wu
Emperor Hui divided Didao, Lintao, and Heguan in Longxi, and established six additional counties: Taoyang, Suiping, Wujie, Shixing, Fifth, and Zhenqiu. The nine counties were combined to form Didao County, which belonged to Qinzhou.
Zhang Jun assigned it to Liangzhou and established Didao County as Wushi County.
Jiangzuo divided a part of Luanzhou into Qinzhou, and established Liangzhou as its administrative seat, and established Dichi as Northern Qinzhou.
Liangzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that it was the land of Huayang Heishui, where Shun established twelve pastoralists, and Liangzhou was one of them.
Liang refers to the strong beam of Western Vajra energy, so it is called Luan.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
《周礼》职方氏以梁并雍。
汉不立州名，以其地为益州。
及献帝初平六年，以临江县属永宁郡。
建安六年，刘璋改永宁为巴东郡，分巴郡垫江置巴西郡。
刘备据蜀，又分广汉之葭萌，涪城、梓潼、白水四县，改葭萌曰汉寿，又立汉德县，以为梓潼郡；割巴郡之宕渠、宣汉、汉昌三县宕渠郡，寻省，以县并属巴西郡。
泰始三年，分益州，立梁州于汉中，改汉寿为晋寿，又分广汉置新都郡。
梁州统郡八，县四十四，户七万六千三百。
汉中郡秦置，统县八，户一万五千。
南郑蒲池褒中沔阳成固西乡黄金兴道
梓潼郡蜀置。
统县八，户一万二百。
梓潼涪城武连黄安汉德晋寿剑阁白水
广汉郡汉置。
统县三，户五千一百。
广汉德阳五城
新都郡泰始二年置。
统县四，户二万四千五百。
雒什方绵竹新都
涪陵郡蜀置。
统县五，户四千二百。
汉复涪陵汉平汉葭万宁
巴郡秦置。
统县四，户三千三百。
江州垫江临江枳
translation: 
According to the Book of Rites of Zhou, the official Fang clan merged Liangzhou into Yongzhou.
The Han Dynasty did not establish state names and classified these places as Yizhou.
In the first year of Emperor Xian's reign, Linjiang County was assigned to Yongning County.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Liu Zhang changed Yongning County to Bashu County, divided Ba County and Dianjiang to build Brazil County.
Liu Bei took control of Shu, and divided the four counties of Jiameng, Fucheng, Zitong, and Baishui in Guangmo County, renamed Jiameng Hanshou, and established Hande County to merge into Zitong County; he divided the three counties of Danqu, Xuanhan, and Mochang in Ba County to create Danqu County, which was soon abolished, and these counties jointly belonged to Brazil County.
In the third year of Taishi, Yizhou was separated, Liangzhou was established in the desert, Moshou was changed to Jinshou, and Guangmo County was separated to establish Xindu County.
Liangzhou governs eight counties, 44 counties, and 76,300 households.
Qin established Mozhong County. It oversees eight counties and 15,000 households.
Nanzheng Pucheng praises Mianyang Chenggu Xixiang Huanghuangxing Road
Zitong County was established in Shu.
It oversees eight counties and 10,200 households.
Hanging Tong, Fucheng, Wulian, Huang'an, Hande, Jinshou, Jiange, Baishui
It was set up in Guangmo County and Han Dynasty.
It oversees three counties and 5,100 households.
Guanghan Deyang Five Cities
Xindu County was established in the second year of Taishi.
Take charge of four counties, two lettuce and four thousand five hundred
Luoshifang Mianzhu Xindu
Dangu was established in Fuling County.
It oversees five counties and 4,200 households.
Fuling of Han Dynasty, Ping of Han Dynasty, Jia Wanning of Han Dynasty
Berkshire setting.
It oversees four counties and 3,300 households.
Jiangzhou Dianjiang Linjiangzhi


Chunk 41: 
original: 
巴西郡蜀置。
统县九，户一万二千。
阆中西充国苍溪岐惬南充国汉昌宕渠安汉平州
巴东郡汉置。
统县三，户六千五百。
鱼复朐南浦
太康六年九月，罢新都郡并广汉郡。
惠帝复分巴西置宕渠郡，统宕渠、汉昌，宣汉三县，并以新城、魏兴、上庸合四郡以属梁州。
寻而梁州郡县没于李特，永嘉中又分属杨茂搜，其晋人流寓于梁益者，仍于二州立南北二阴平郡。
及桓温平蜀之后，以巴汉流人立晋昌郡，领长乐、安晋、延寿、安乐、宣汉、宁都、新兴、吉阳、东关、永安十县；又置益昌、晋兴二县，属巴西郡；于德阳界东南置遂宁郡；又于晋寿置剑阁县，属梁州。
后孝武分梓潼北界立晋寿郡，统晋寿、白水、邵欢、兴安四县；梓潼郡徙居梓潼，罢剑阁县；又别置南汉中郡，分巴西、梓潼为金山郡。
translation: 
Brazil County Shu setting.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 12,000 properties.
Central Khotan, the Western Chongguo, Cangxi, Qichun, the Southern Chongguo, Hanchang, Dangqu, Anhan, Pingzhou
Badong County falling setting.
It oversees three counties and 6,500 households.
YufuquNanpu
In September of the sixth year of Taikang, Xindu County was abolished and merged into Guanghan County.
Emperor Hui also divided Brazil County and established Danqu County, which took charge of the three counties of Danqu, Hanchang and Xuanhan. It also belonged to Liangzhou together with the four counties of Xincheng, Weixing and Shangyong.
Soon Liangzhou counties fell under the jurisdiction of Li Te, and during the Yongjia period they were divided into Yangmaosou. The Jin people who migrated to Liangzhou and Yizhou were divided into two Yinping counties in the north and south of the two states.
After arriving in Huan Wen and pinging Shu, Jinchang County was established with the Ba Shi refugees, which governed the ten counties of Changle, Anjin, Yanshou, Anle, Xuanhan, Ningdu, Xinxing, Jiyang, Dongguan, and Yong'an. It also established two counties, Yichang and Jinxing, which belonged to Brazil County. Suining County was established in the southeast of Deyang boundary, and Jiange County was established in Jinshou, which belongs to the chisel industry.
Later, Yu Genzui divided the northern part of Gulian and established Zhideng, which governed the four counties of Jinshou, Baishui, Shaohuan and Xing'an. Zitong County was moved to Zitong and Jiange County was abolished. South Hanzhong County was also established, and Brazil and Zitong were separated and established as Jinshan County.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
及安帝时，又立新巴、汶阳二郡，又有北新巴、华阳、南阴平、北阴平四郡，其后又立巴渠、怀安、宋熙、白水、上洛、北上洛、南宕渠、怀汉、新兴、安康等十郡。
益州。
案《禹贡》及舜十二牧俱为梁州之域，周合梁于雍，则又为雍州之地。《春秋元命包》云： 参伐流为益州，益之为言厄也。
言其所在之地险厄也，亦曰疆壤益大，故以名焉。
始秦惠王灭蜀，置郡，以张若为蜀守。
及始皇置三十六郡，蜀郡之名不改。
汉初有汉中、巴蜀。
高祖六年，分蜀置广汉，凡为四郡。
武帝开西南夷，更置犍为、牂柯、越巂、益州四郡，凡八郡，遂置益州统焉，益州始此也。
及后汉，明帝以新附置永昌郡，安帝又以诸道置蜀、广汉、犍为三郡属国都尉，及灵帝又以汶江、蚕陵、广柔三县立汶山郡。
献帝初平元年，刘璋分巴郡立永宁郡。
建安六年，改永宁为巴东，以巴郡为巴西，又立涪陵郡。
二十一年，刘备分巴郡立固陵郡。
蜀章武元年又改固陵为巴东郡，巴西郡为巴郡，又分广汉立梓潼郡，分犍为立江阳郡，以蜀郡属国为汉嘉郡，以犍为属国为硃提郡。
刘禅建兴二年，改益州郡为建宁郡，广汉属国为阴平郡，分建宁永昌立云南郡，分建宁柯立兴古郡，分广汉立东广汉郡。
魏景元中，蜀平，省东广汉郡。
及武帝泰始二年，分益州置梁州，以汉中属焉。
七年，又分益州置宁州。
益州统郡八，县四十四，户十四万九千三百。
translation: 
When Jinshan County arrived, two more counties, Xinba and Wenyang, were established, and four counties were established: Beixinba, Huayang, Nanyinping, and Beiyinping. Later, ten counties were established, including Baqu, Huai'an, Songxi, Baishui, Shangluo, Beishangluo, Nandanqu, Huaihan, Xinxing, and Ankang.
Yizhou.
The beneficial industry in the twelve animal husbandry mentioned in "Yu Gong" and Aijian are all areas of chiseling industry, and if the chiseling industry is combined into the blocking industry, the beneficial industry becomes the blocking industry. "Spring and Autumn Yuan Ming Bao" says: Participating in the flow of stars is the stem industry, and benefit means misfortune.
This means that the terrain of the stem industry is dangerous, and it also means that the territory is large, so it is named like this.
At the beginning, the King of Taisai defeated Shu, established Shu County, and appointed Zhang Ruo as the county governor.
Until Qin Shihuang established thirty-six counties, the name of Shu County did not change.
In the early Han Dynasty, there were Hanzhong, Ba and Shu counties.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Shu was divided into four counties and Guanghan was established.
Emperor Wu opened up the Southwest Yi region and established four counties: Jianwei, Yangke, Yuemao, and Yizhou, making a total of eight counties. He then established Yizhou to govern the counties. Yizhou began around this time.
When he arrived in Houmo, Emperor Ming established Yongchang County for the newly annexed area. Emperor An also established the three counties of Shu, Guanghan and Qianwei according to various roads. Emperor Ling established the three counties of Wenjiang, Canling and Guangrou as Wenshan County.
In the first year of Emperor Xingping's reign, Liu Zhang divided Ba County into Yongning County.
In the sixth year of Jian'an, Yongning was renamed Basu, Bajun was called Basijun, and Fuling County was established.
In the 21st year, Liu Bei divided Ba County into Guling County.
In the first year of Zhangwu in Shu, it was renamed Guling as Badong County, Basi County as Ba County, Guangmo was divided into Zitong County, Jianwei was divided into Jiangyang County, Shu County's vassal state was called Hanjia County, and Jianwei vassal state was called Zhuti County.
In the second year of Jianxing reign of Liu Chan, Yizhou County was changed to Jianning County, Guangmo's vassal state was changed to Yinping County, part of Jianning and Yongchang were divided into Yunnan County, part of Jianning and Yangke were divided into Xinggu County, and Guanghan was divided into Shuguanghan County.
During the reign of Wei Jingyuan, the Shu Kingdom was pacified and Shu Guanghan County was abolished.
In the second year of Taishi, Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty, Yizhou was divided and Liangzhou was established, and Hanzhong was included in Liangzhou.
In the seventh year, Yizhou was divided and Ningzhou was established.
Yizhou governs eight counties, 44 counties, and 149,300 households.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
蜀郡秦置。
统县六，户五万。
成都广都繁江原临邛郫
犍为郡汉置。
统县五，户一万。
武阳南安僰道资中牛鞞
汶山郡汉置。
统县八，户一万六千。
汶山升迁都安广阳兴乐平康蚕陵广柔
汉嘉郡蜀置。
统县四，户一万三千。
汉嘉徙阳严道旄牛
江阳郡蜀置。
统县三，户三千一百。
江阳符汉安
硃提郡蜀置。
统县五，户二千六百。
硃提南广汉阳南秦堂狼
越巂郡汉置。
统县五，户五万三千四百。
会无邛都卑水定苲台登
牂柯郡汉置。
统县八，户一千二百。
万寿且兰谈指夜郎毋敛并渠鄨平夷
惠帝之后，李特僭号于蜀，称汉，益州郡县皆没于特。
李雄又分汉嘉、蜀二郡立沈黎、汉原二郡。
是时益州郡县虽没李氏，江左并遥置之。
桓温灭蜀，其地复为晋有，省汉原、沈黎而立南阴平、晋原、宁蜀、始宁四郡焉。
translation: 
Up to multiple pot settings.
Oversaw six counties and 50,000 households.
Shujun was set up by the Han Dynasty. It oversees five counties and 10,000 households.
Wuyang Nan'an burned the cattle and cattle in the Taoist capital and built them for the Han Dynasty.
There are five counties and ten thousand households.
Wuyang Nan'an Bo Daozi Zhongniu
Wenshan County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees eight counties and 16,000 households.
Wenshan was promoted to Du'an, Guangyang, Xingle, Pingkang, Canling and Guangrou.
Hanjia County was set up in Shu.
It oversees four counties and 13,000 households.
Han Jia moved to Yangyan Road and Yanniu
Jiangyang County was established in Shu.
Take charge of three counties. Three thousand one hundred households.
Jiangyang Fu Hanan
Zhuti County was established in Shu.
It oversees five counties and 2,600 households.
Zhu Ti Nan Guang Hanyang Nan Qin Tang Lang
Yuelan County and Han Dynasty were set up.
It oversees five counties and 53,400 households.
Huiwuqiongdu Beishui Dingzhetai Deng
It is set up in the desert of Jianke County.
It oversees eight counties and 1,200 households.
Wanshou Qilan talks about Yelang, no loach, and the canal.
After Emperor Hui, Li Te usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor in Shu. The country was named Han, and all counties in Yizhou fell under Li Te's rule.
Li Xiong further divided Hanjia and Shu counties into two counties, and established Shenli and Moyuan counties.
Although Yizhou counties fell into the hands of the Li family at this time, Jiangzuo was also led by Jin Yao.
Huan Wen destroyed Shu and returned it to Jin. He abolished Moyuan and Shenli and established the four counties of Nanyinping, Jinyuan, Ningshu and Shining.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
咸安二年，益州复没于苻氏。
太元八年，复为晋有。
隆安二年，又立晋熙、遂宁、晋宁三郡云。
宁州。
于汉魏为益州之域。
泰始七年，武帝以益州地广，分益州之建宁、兴古、云南，交州之永昌，合四郡为宁州，统县四十五，户八万三千。
云南郡蜀置。
统县九，户九千二百。
云平云南梇栋青蛉姑复邪龙榆遂久永宁
兴古郡蜀置。
统县十一，户六千二百。
律高句町宛温漏卧毋掇贲古滕休镡封汉兴进乘都篖
建宁郡蜀置。
统县十七，户二万九千。
味昆泽存邑新定谈槁母单同濑漏江牧麻谷昌连然秦臧双柏
俞元修云泠丘滇池
永昌郡汉置。
统县八，户三万八千。
不韦永寿比苏雍乡南涪巂唐哀牢博南
太康三年，武帝又废宁州入益州，立南夷校尉以护之。
太安二年，惠帝复置宁州，又分建宁以西七县别立为益州郡。
永嘉二年，改益州郡曰晋宁，分牂柯立平夷、夜郎二郡，然是时其地再为李特所有。
其后李寿分宁州兴古、永昌、云南、硃提、越巂、河阳六郡为汉州。
translation: 
In the second year of Xian'an, Yizhou fell into the hands of the Fu family again.
In the eighth year of Taiyuan, it returned to the Jin Dynasty.
In the second year of Long'an, three counties of Jinxi, Suining and Jinning were established.
Ningzhou.
During the Han and Wei dynasties, it was a profitable area.
In the seventh year of Taishi, Emperor Wu divided the territory into Jianning, Xinggu, Yunnan, and Yongchang in Jiaozhou. A total of four counties were combined into Kongmiao, which governed 45 counties and 83,000 households.
Yunnan County Fish Set.
It governs nine counties and 9,200 households.
Yunping, Yunnan, Zhidong, Qingxiaogu recovers from evil, Longyu then stays in Yongning for a long time
Xinggu County Tan was set up.
It oversees 11 counties and 6,200 households.
Lu Gao Gou Ding Wan Wen Luo Wudi Wu Dian Ben Gu Teng Xiu Tan Feng Han Xingjin Chengdu Zhuan
Jianning County fish setting.
He has jurisdiction over seventeen counties and nine thousand households.
Wei Kunze Cunyi New Agreement
Yu Yuanxiu Yun Lingqiu Dianchi
Yongchang County Lotus setting.
It oversees eight counties and 38,000 households.
Buwei Yongshou Bisu Yongxiang Nanfuxu Tang Ailao Bonan
In the third year of Taikang, Emperor Wu abolished Ningzhou and merged it with Yiye, and established Nanyi Xiaowei to guard it.
In the second year of Tai'an, Emperor Hui resettled Ningzhou and established the seven counties west of Jianning as Yizhou County.
In the second year of Yongjia, Yizhou County was renamed Jinning County, and Yangke County was divided into Pingyi and Yelang counties. But at that time, the land was once again owned by Li Te.
After that, Li Shou divided the six counties of Xinggu, Yongchang, Yunnan, Zhuti, Yuemao, and Heyang in Ningzhou into Hanzhou.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
咸康四年，分牂柯、夜郎、硃提、越巂四郡置安州。
八年，又罢并宁州。以越巂还属益州，省永昌郡焉。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Xiankang's reign, the four counties of Yangke, Yelang, Zhuti and Yuejun were divided to set up Anzhi.
In the eighth year, Saicong was abolished and merged into Chocong, Longya was assigned to Yizhou, and Yongchang County was abolished.


