Chunk 0: 
original: 
梁统子松子竦曾孙商玄孙冀
梁统字仲宁，安定乌氏人，晋大夫梁益耳，即其先也。统高祖父子都，自河东迁居北地，子都子桥，以资千万徙茂陵，至哀、平之末，归安定。
统性刚毅而好法律。
初仕州郡。
更始二年，召补中郎将，使安集凉州，拜酒泉太守。
会更始败，赤眉入长安，统与窦融及诸郡守起兵保境，谋共立帅。
初以位次，咸共推统，统固辞曰： 昔陈婴不受王者，以有老母也。
今统内有尊亲，又德薄能寡，诚不足以当之。
遂共推融为河西大将军，更以统为武威大守。
为政严猛，威行邻郡。
建武五年，统筹各遣使随窦融长史刘钧诣阙奉贡，愿得诣行在所，诏加统宣德将军。
八年夏，光武自征隗嚣，统与窦融等将兵会车驾。
及嚣败，封统为成义侯，同产兄巡、从弟腾并为关内侯，拜腾酒泉典农部尉，悉遣还河西。
十二年，统与融等俱诣京师，以列侯奉朝请，更封高山侯，拜太中大夫，除四子为郎。
统在朝廷，数陈便宜。
translation: 
◆Liang Tongchuan, Liang Tong, courtesy name Zhongning, was a native of Anding Wushi.
His ancestor was Liang Yi'er, a doctor of the Jin Dynasty. Liang Tong's grandfather was named Zidu, who moved from Hedong to the north. Zidu's son Liangqiao moved to Maoling with tens of millions of family assets, and returned to Anding in the last years of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping.
Liang Tong had a resolute character and loved the law.
Started to serve as an official in the state and county.
In the second year of Gengshi's reign, he summoned the general Zhonglang and sent him to Hujing Prefecture to be appointed the governor of Jiuquan.
After the failure of the reform, the Red Eyebrow Army entered Chang'an. Liang Tong, Dou Rong and the governors of various counties raised troops to defend their territory. They all discussed how to establish a commander-in-chief.
They began to rank in order, and everyone recommended Liang Tong. Liang Tong firmly declined and said: In the past, Chen Ying refused to be king because his mother was still alive.
Now I have respect for my relatives, but I have little virtue and little ability, so I am really not qualified for the job.
So everyone elected Dou Rong to be the general of Hexi and the governor of Wuwei.
Liang Tong's political views were strict and his prestige reached neighboring counties.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Liang Tong and other envoys sent to the imperial court with Dou Rong's chief minister Liu Jun to pay tribute, hoping to reach the emperor's temporary residence. The emperor issued an edict and conferred the title of General Xuande on Liang Tong.
In the summer of the eighth year, Emperor Guangwu personally conquered Kaixiao. Liang Tong, Dou Rong and others led their soldiers to join Guangwu.
After the defeat of Wei Xiao, Guangwu granted Liang Tong the title of Marquis of Chengyi, and Tong's brother Liang Xun and cousin Liang Teng were also granted the title of Marquis of Guannei. Liang Teng was made the captain of Diannong in Jiuquan, and all of them were sent back to Hexi.
In the twelfth year, Liang Tong, Dou Rong and others came to the capital and went to the court as marquises. They were also granted the title of Gaoshan Marquis, paid homage to the Taizhong doctor, and named their four sons as Lang Lang.
When Liang Tong was in the court, he repeatedly reported things that were beneficial to the country.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以为法令既轻，下奸不胜。宜重刑罚，以遵旧典，乃上疏曰：
臣窃见元、哀二交轻殊死之刑以一百二十三事，手杀人者减死一等，自是以后，著为常准，故人轻犯法，吏易杀人。臣闻立君之道，仁义为主，仁者爱人，义者政理，爱人以除残为务，政理以去乱为心。
刑罚在衷，无取于劝，是以五帝有流、殛、放、杀之诛，三王有大辟、刻肌之法。
故孔子称 仁者必有勇 ，又曰 理财正辞，禁民为非曰义 。
高帝受命诛暴，平荡天下，约令定律，诚得其宜。
文帝宽惠柔克，遭世康平，惟除省肉刑、相坐之法，它皆率由，无革旧章。
武帝值中国隆盛，财力有余，征伐远方，军役数兴，豪桀犯禁，奸吏弄法，故重首匿之科，著知从之律，以破朋党，以惩隐匿。
宣帝聪明正直，总御海内，臣下奉宪，无所失坠，因循先典，天下称理。
至哀、平继体，而即位日浅，听断尚寡，丞相王嘉轻为穿凿，亏除先帝旧约成律，数年之间，百有余事，或不便于理，或不厌民心。
谨表其尤害于体者傅奏于左。伏惟陛下包元履德，权时拨乱，功逾文、武，德侔高皇，诚不宜因循季末衰微之轨。
回神明察，考量得失，宣诏有司，详择其善，定不易之典，施无穷之法，天下幸甚。
事下三公、廷尉，议者以为隆刑竣法，非明王急务，施行日久，岂一朝所厘。
统今所定，不宜开可。
统复上言曰： 有司以臣今所言，不可施行。
translation: 
He believes that if the law is too light, bad guys will increase, and the punishment should be increased and things should be done in accordance with the old laws.
So Shangshu said: I have seen that Emperors Yuan and Ai gave special punishments lightly and dealt with one hundred and twenty-three things. Those who killed people with their own hands were reduced to one level of death penalty. From then on, the standard was set, so people easily broke the law and officials killed people at will. The ministers heard that the principle of establishing a king should be based on benevolence and righteousness. Only the benevolent can love the people, and the righteous can govern the government. If you love the people, you should eliminate cruelty, and if you regulate politics, you should eliminate rebellion.
Punishment should be moderate and not too light. Therefore, the Five Emperors had methods such as exile, execution, release, and killing, and the Three Kings had methods such as large openings and skin carvings.
Confucius said: A benevolent person must be brave. He also said: The right words for financial management, and the wrong words for banning people are called righteousness.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty was ordered by heaven to punish the Qin Dynasty and pacify the world. He made a three-chapter agreement, which is indeed very appropriate.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty advocated leniency and kindness, and used softness to overcome toughness. In a time of peace, except for sparing corporal punishment and sitting on each other, everything else was still done according to the rules.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, China was strong and prosperous, with abundant financial resources, expeditions to distant places, and troop deployments many times. Some heroes violated prohibitions, and traitors took advantage of loopholes in the law. Therefore, they attached great importance to the chief offenders and harboring criminals, and punished those who coerced and followed them. This was used to break up cliques and punish those who hid and refused to retaliate.
Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was wise and upright, and ruled the world. His ministers acted according to the law without making mistakes.
When Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping came to the throne, they did not last long and did not handle many cases. Prime Minister Wang Jia casually changed the old laws of the late emperor. Within a few years, more than a hundred things happened, some of which were unreasonable and some of which could not satisfy the people.
Now I state some of the things that are harmful to the political system on the left: I think that your Majesty has noble moral character, adapts to the situation, brings order to chaos, has more merits than King Wen and King Wu, and has the same moral character as Emperor Gao, so I should not act according to the decline of the last generation.
We should clearly understand the interests and disadvantages, consider the gains and losses, instruct the officials, choose the good and follow it, and establish unchanging regulations as the rules for future generations. Then the world will be very lucky.
The matter was brought to the attention of Sangong and Tingwei. Everyone believed that harsh punishments were not the current urgent task of King Ming. The old law had been in effect for a long time and could not be changed in one morning.
What Liang Tong proposed should not be adopted.
Liang Tong wrote again: The officials believe that what I said cannot be implemented.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
寻臣之所奏，非曰严刑。
窃谓高帝以后，至乎孝宣，其所施行，多合经传，宜比方今事，验之往古，聿遵前典，事无难改，不胜至愿。
愿得召见，若对尚书近臣，口陈其要。
帝令尚书问状，统对曰：闻圣帝明王，制立刑罚，故虽尧、舜之盛，犹诛四凶。
经曰： 天讨有罪，五刑五庸哉。
又曰： 爰制百姓于刑之衷。
孔子曰： 刑罚不衷，则人无所厝手足。
衷之为言，不轻不重之谓也。
《春秋》之诛，不避亲戚，所以防患救乱，全安众庶，岂无仁爱之恩？贵绝残贼之路也。自高祖之兴，至于孝宣，君明臣忠，谟谋深博，犹因循旧章，不轻改革，海内称理，断狱益少。
至初元、建平，所减刑罚百有余条，而盗贼浸多，岁以万数。
间者三辅从横，群辈并起，至燔烧茂陵，桂见未央。
其后坤西、北地、西河之贼，越州度郡，万里交结，攻取库兵，劫略吏人，诏书讨捕，连年不获。
是时以天下无难，百姓安平，而狂狡之势，犹至于此，皆刑罚不衷，愚人易犯之所致也。
由此观之，则刑轻之作，反生大患；惠加奸轨，而害及良善也。故臣统愿陛下采择贤臣孔光、师丹等议。
translation: 
Looking back on what I said, it cannot be called severe punishment.
I mean that after Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Xiaoxuan, they implemented many scriptures and traditions. Today we should focus on reality, refer to the past, and follow the old rules. It will not be difficult to change. This is my greatest wish.
If you hope to be summoned, if you are facing ministers and ministers, you can also speak the key points orally.
The emperor ordered his minister to inquire about the situation, and Liang Tong replied: I heard that the Holy Emperor and Ming King instituted punishments, so even in the heyday of Yao and Shun, four murderers were killed.
"The Book of Books" says: God punishes guilty people, and the five punishments have five uses.
He also said: Scholars subject the people to punishment.
Confucius said: If the punishment is not appropriate, then the people will put their hands and feet where they are.
The meaning is neither light nor heavy.
"Spring and Autumn" advocates righteousness and extermination of relatives, not avoiding relatives, in order to prevent troubles, save chaos, and stabilize the people. Isn't it the kindness of benevolence? The main thing is to put an end to the path of ruthless thieves! Since the rise of Emperor Gaozu and the arrival of Emperor Xiaoxuan, the emperor has been wise and his ministers loyal, and his strategies are profound and broad. He still abides by the old rules and does not make casual reforms. It is called governance in the country and there are fewer cases resolved.
In the early Yuan and Jianping dynasties, more than a hundred sentences were reduced, but the number of thieves increased, numbering in the tens of thousands every year.
Recently, a group of thieves broke out near Kyoto and even burned down Maoling and Weiyang Palace was also on fire.
Later, thieves from Longxi, Beidi, and Xihe crossed the prefectures and counties, colluded for thousands of miles, captured warehouses, robbed officials and people, and issued edicts to arrest them, but the harvest was not great year after year.
At this time, the world was peaceful and the people were stable, but thieves were still rampant. This was all caused by inappropriate punishments and fools breaking the law at will.
From this point of view, mitigating the punishment will only cause serious troubles; bad people will benefit and kind people will suffer. Therefore, I hope that your majesty will adopt the opinions of the virtuous ministers Kong Guang and Shi Dan.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
议上，遂寝不报。
后出为九江太守，定封陵乡侯。
统在郡亦有治迹，吏人畏爱之。
卒于官。
子松嗣。
松字伯孙，少为郎，尚光武女舞阴长公主，再迁虎贲中郎将。
松博通经书，明习故事，与诸儒修明堂、辟雍、郊祀、封禅礼仪，常与论议，宠幸莫比。光武崩，受遗诏辅政。永平元年，迁太仆。松数为私书请托郡县，二年，发觉免官，遂怀怨望。四年冬，乃县飞书诽谤，下狱死，国除。
子扈，后以恭怀皇后从兄，永元中，擢为黄门侍郎，历位卿、校尉。
温恭谦让，亦敦《诗》、《书》。
永初中，为长乐少府，松弟竦。
竦字叔敬，少习《孟习易》，弱冠能教授。后坐兄松事，与弟恭俱徙九真。
translation: 
The memorial was sent, but he was taken away without reporting.
Later Liang Tong served as the prefect of Jiujiang and was granted the title of Marquis of Lingxiang.
Liang Tong also had great achievements in governance in the county, and the officials and the people all feared and loved him.
Later died in official position.
◆In the biography of Liang Ji, Liang Ji's courtesy name is Bozhuo.
His shoulders were hunched like an eagle's wings, and his eyes were upright like a jackal. He looked straight at people with no expression on his face and his speech was slurred.
Learning can only be done by copying and writing and keeping accounts.
He has been a noble royal relative since he was a child, idle and unruly. He is fond of drinking and drinking, and is good at archery, playing chess, five grids, six gambling, playing ball, and playing with money. He also likes to drive hawks and dogs, and race horses and fight cocks. At first, he served as the Minister of Huangmen, and was promoted to the official positions of Shizhong, Huben Zhonglangjiang, Yueqi, Infantry Colonel, and Zhijinwu.
In the first year of Emperor Shun Yonghe's reign, Liang Ji was appointed Yin of Henan. During his tenure, he was brutal and cruel and did many illegal things.
His father, Liang Shang, had a close friend, Lu Fang, the commander of Luoyang, who discussed many of Liang Ji's shortcomings with Liang, and Liang Shang blamed Liang Ji for this.
Liang Ji had a grudge, so he sent someone to assassinate Lu Fang on the road. He was afraid that Liang Shang would find out, so he put the suspicion of assassinating Lu Fang on Lu Fang's enemies. He also asked Lu Fang's younger brother Lu Yu to be the order of Luoyang, asking him to capture the enemies who killed Lu Fang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
既徂南土，历江、湖，济沅、湘，感悼子胥、屈原以非辜沉身，乃作《悼骚赋》，系玄石而沉之。显宗后诏听还本郡。竦闭门自养，以经籍为娱，著书数篇，名曰《七序》。
班固见而称曰： 孔子著《春秋》而乱臣贼子惧，梁竦作《七序》而窃位素餐者惭。 姓好施，不事产业。
长嫂舞阴公主赡给诸梁，亲疏有序，特重敬竦，虽衣食器物，必有加异。
竦悉分与亲族，自无所服。
竦生长京师，不乐本土，身负其才，郁郁不得意。尝登高远望，叹息言曰： 大丈夫居世，生当封侯，死当庙食。如其不然，闲居可以养志，《诗》、《书》足以自娱，州郡之职，徒劳人耳。
后辟命交至，并无所就。有三男三女，肃宗纳其二女，皆为贵人。
小贵人生和帝，窦皇后养以为子，而竦家私相庆。
后诸窦闻之，恐梁氏得志，终为己害，建初八年，遂谮杀二贵人，而陷竦等以恶逆。
诏使汉阳太守郑据传考竦罪，死狱中，家属复徙九真。
translation: 
As a result, more than 100 members of Lu Fang's enemy's clan, relatives, and guests were killed. When Liang Shang died and was not buried, Emperor Shun appointed Liang Ji as the general and Liang Ji's younger brother, Shizhong Liang Buyi, as the Yin of Henan. When Emperor Shun of the Han Dynasty died, Emperor Chong of the Han Dynasty was only two years old and still in his infancy. The Queen Mother took charge of the court and ordered Liang Ji, Taifu Zhao Jun, and Taiwei Li Gu to participate in Shangshu affairs and take charge of the government.
Although Liang Ji refused to take responsibility, he was even more extravagant and cruel.
Soon, Emperor Chong of the Han Dynasty died again, and Liang Ji welcomed Emperor Zhi.
Emperor Zhi is young but very smart. He knew that Liang Ji was arrogant. When he met with the ministers in court, he looked at Liang Ji and said: This is a domineering general.
Liang Ji was very angry after hearing this, and ordered his cronies to put poison into soup cakes and give them to Emperor Zhi. Emperor Zhi died that day. After the death of Emperor Zhi, Liang Ji ushered in Emperor Huan and framed Li Gu and former Taiwei Du Qiao. Everyone in the country sighed and felt in danger. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Li Gu".
In the first year of the founding of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty granted 13,000 households in Liangji food towns, and increased the number of people recommended by the General's Palace for outstanding candidates and the number of talented people. The number of officials in the General's Palace was twice that of Taiwei, Situ, and Sikong.
Liang Buyi was also granted the title of Marquis of Yingyin, Liang Buyi's younger brother Liang Meng was granted the title of Marquis of Xiping, and Liang Ji's son Liang Yin was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangyi, each with a settlement of 10,000 households.
In the first year of peace, Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty granted another 10,000 households in Liangji and Hebei provinces, adding to the previous 30,000 households. Zaixuan, a native of Hongnong, had a treacherous and evil nature and wanted to please Liang Ji, so he wrote to the emperor saying that Liang Ji had the meritorious service of Zhou Gong and became king. Now that his son has been enfeoffed, his wife should also be enfeoffed as the king of the city.
Emperor Huan then granted Liang Ji's wife Sun Shou the title of Lord of Xiangcheng. In addition to the tax from Xiangcheng, he also enjoys the tax from Yangzhai County. The annual income is 50 million, and he is given a red seal ribbon, which is equal to the eldest princess.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
辞语连及舞阴公主，坐徙新城，使者护守。宫省事密，莫有知和帝梁氏生者。
永元九年，窦太后崩，松子扈遣从兄禅奏记三府，以为汉家旧典，崇贵母氏，而梁贵人亲育圣躬，不蒙尊号，求得申议。
太尉张酺引禅讯问事理，会后召见，因白禅奏记之状。
帝感恸良久，曰： 于君意若何？
酺对曰： 《春秋》之义，母以子贵。
汉兴以来，母氏莫不降显，臣愚以为宜上尊号，追慰圣灵，存录诸舅，以明亲亲。
帝悲泣曰： 非君孰为朕思之！
会贵人姊南阳樊调妻上书自讼曰：
妾同产女弟贵人，前充后宫，蒙先帝厚恩，得见宠幸。
皇天授命，诞生圣明。
而为窦宪兄弟所见谮诉，使妾父竦冤死牢狱，骸骨不掩。
老母孤弟，远徙万里。独妾遗脱，逸伏草野，常恐没命，无由自达。
今遭值陛下神圣之运，亲统万机，群物得所。宪兄弟奸恶，既伏辜诛，海内旷然，各获其宜。
妾得苏息，拭目更视，乃敢昧死自陈所天。
妾闻太宗即位，薄氏蒙荣；宣帝继统，史族复兴。
妾门虽有薄、史之亲，独无外戚余恩，诚自悼伤。
妾父既冤，不可复生，母氏年殊七十，乃弟棠等，远在绝域，不知死生。
愿乞收竦朽骨。使母、弟得归本郡，则施过天地，存殁幸赖。
帝览章感悟，乃下中常侍、掖庭令验问之，辞证明审，遂得引见，具陈其状。乃留止宫中，连月乃出，赏赐衣被钱帛第宅奴卑，旬月之间，累资千万。
translation: 
Sun Shou was very beautiful, and was good at pretending to be demonic. He painted his eyebrows flat and thin, wore pink makeup that looked like tear stains on his cheeks, his bun was on the side, twisted his waist, and his feet seemed unable to support his weight. He put on a clever smile to seduce Liang Ji.
Liang Ji also changed the style of carriages and carriages, creating flat-top curtain carriages, piqus, narrow crowns, folded scarves, body-hugging fans, and foxtail singles. Sun Shouxing was jealous because she was able to subdue Liang Ji. Liang Ji doted on her very much and was also afraid of her. In the past, Liang Ji's father Liang Shang gave the beauty Youtongqi to Emperor Shun of the Han Dynasty.
You Tongqi made a small mistake, so Emperor Shun returned her to Liang Shang. Liang Shang did not dare to keep her and married her off.
Liang Ji sent someone to snatch her back. When Liang Shang passed away, Liang Ji secretly lived with You Tongqi in the west of the city.
Sun Shou found out that Liang Ji was out, so he brought many slaves with him, snatched You Tongqi home, cut off his hair, slashed his face, beat him severely, and wanted to write a letter to the emperor to report the matter.
Liang Ji was very frightened and kowtowed to Sun Shou's mother, asking her not to do this. Sun Shou also gave up because he had no choice but to do so. However, Liang Ji still had an affair with You Tongqi and gave birth to a son named Boyu. He hid him and did not dare to let him out.
Soon, Sun Shou still found out and taught her son Liang Yin to kill Youtongqi's family.
Liang Ji was afraid that Sun Shou would kill Boyu, so he often hid him in the wall.
Liang Ji favored a servant named Qin Gong, who became the Taicang Order and had access to Sun Shou's residence.
When Sun Shou met the Qin Palace, he often sent away the slaves who served her, pretending to have something to discuss, so she had an affair with him.
The Qin Palace favored Liang Ji externally and Sun Shou internally. It was so powerful that the governor and county governor went to see him and bid farewell to him when they were appointed.
Liang Ji listened to Sun Shou's words and dismissed many people in power in the Liang family. On the surface, he was showing humility, but in fact, he was raising the status of the Sun family and relatives.
As many as ten people from the Sun family became servants, ministers, captains, county guards, and chief officials under their false names. These people are greedy, violent and dissolute.
They each sent their cronies to record the wealthy households in the counties under their jurisdiction, added other charges, imprisoned them, tortured them, and asked them to pay for their sins. Those who contributed less money were often executed or exiled.
There was a Fufeng man named Shisun Fen who was very rich but stingy by nature.
Liang Ji gave him a carriage and horses, and borrowed 50 million yuan from him. Scholar Sun Fen gave him thirty million.
Liang Ji was furious and informed the county officials, falsely accusing Shi Sun Fen's mother of being a slave in charge of his family's property, saying that she had stolen ten husks of white pearls and a thousand pounds of purple gold and escaped. So the scholar Sun Fen brother was imprisoned, tortured, and killed in prison, and all his family's money of more than 170 million was confiscated.
The property collected from various parties, as well as the tribute items throughout the year, had to be given to Liang Ji first, while the emperor received the inferior ones.
There was an endless stream of officials and common people bringing property to the Liang family to plead guilty. Liang Ji also sent people out to the fortress to contact foreign countries and conduct extensive searches for rare treasures. Taking advantage of the opportunity to travel, they asked for singers and servants from various places, and the people they sent relied on their power and acted tyrannically, robbing and humiliating women of the people, and beating officials and soldiers. Everyone hated them wherever they went. Liang Ji then built a large mansion, while Sun Shou also built a courtyard across the street, maximizing civil engineering to show off and compete with each other. There are deep and dense rooms where guests are received and where they sleep every day. The houses are connected and the doors are connected. The pillars and walls of the courtyard are carved with patterns and painted with gold paint.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
素有行操，帝益爱之，加号梁夫人；擢樊调为羽林左监。
调，光禄大夫宏兄曾孙也。
于是追尊恭怀皇后。
其冬，制诏三公、大鸿胪曰： 夫孝莫大于尊尊亲亲，其义一也。《诗》云： 父兮生我，母兮鞠我，抚我畜我，长我育我，顾我复我，出入腹我。欲报之德，昊天罔极。
朕不敢兴事，览于前世，太宗、中宗，实有旧典，追命外祖，以笃亲亲。
其追封谥皇太后父竦为褒亲愍侯，比灵文、顺成、恩成侯。
魂而有灵，嘉斯宠荣，好爵显服，以慰母心。
遣中谒者与及扈，备礼西迎竦丧，诣京师改殡，赐东园画馆、玉匣、衣衾，建茔于恭怀皇后陵傍。
translation: 
The windows, large and small, are decorated with silk patterns, carved with trivial patterns, and decorated with cyan, with clouds and immortals painted on them. The pavilions and pavilions are connected by passages, and you can climb up and look at each other. Stone steps bridge across the river. Gold, silver, pearls and jade, exotic treasures, filled the warehouses.
Fetch famous horses from distant Dawan.
They also opened gardens and used soil to build mountains.
There are nine slopes in ten miles to imitate the East and West Xiaoshan Mountains.
The deep forest and gloomy stream look like a real natural scene.
Rare birds and beasts fly away among them. Liang Ji and Sun Shou were traveling in a man-drawn cart with a feather-decorated hood hung with gold and silver inlays, touring the mansion.
They brought many singers with them, beat the bells, played the sheng and Xiao, and sang heartily all the way. Sometimes they stayed up all night, enjoying themselves. When guests come, the gatekeeper does not inform them. The guests had no choice but to bribe him heavily, so much so that the gatekeeper's savings amounted to thousands of gold.
Liang Ji also added gardens, and the prohibitions were the same as those of the royal family. The garden is vast, reaching Hongnong in the west, Xingyang in the east, Luyang in the south, and the Yellow River and Qishui in the north. It encompasses mountains, forests, swamps, and stretches into hills and wilderness, and the surrounding territory stretches thousands of miles.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
帝亲临送葬，百官毕会。征还竦妻、子，封子棠为乐平侯，棠弟雍乘氏侯，雍弟翟单父侯，邑各五千户，位皆特进，赏赐第宅、奴卑、车马、兵弩、什物以巨万计，宠遇光于当世。
诸梁内外以亲疏并补郎、谒者。棠官至大鸿胪，雍少府。
棠卒，子安国嗣，延光中为侍中，有罪免官，诸梁为郎吏者皆坐免。
商字伯夏，雍之子也。
少以外戚拜郎中，迁黄门侍郎。
永建元年，袭父封乘氏侯。
三年，顺帝选商女及妹入掖庭，迁侍中、屯骑校尉。
阳嘉元年，女立为皇后，妹为贵人，加商位特进，更增国土，赐安车驷马，其岁拜执金吾。
二年，封子冀为襄邑侯，商让不受。
三年，以商为大将军，固称疾不起。
四年，使太常桓焉奉策就第即拜，商乃诣阙受命。
明年，夫人阴氏薨，追号开封君，赠印绶。
商自以戚属居大位，每存谦柔，虚己进贤，辟汉阳巨览、上党陈龟为椽属。
李固、周举为从事中郎，于是京师翕然，称为良辅，帝委重焉。
每有饥馑，辄载租谷于城门，赈与贫餧，不宣己惠。
检御门族，未曾以权盛干法。
时，郎中汝南袁著，年十九，见冀凶纵，不胜其愤，乃诣阙上书曰：
臣闻仲尼叹凤鸟不至，河不出图，自伤卑贱，不能致也。
translation: 
He also built Tuyuan in the west of Henan City, stretching for dozens of miles. He mobilized soldiers and civilians from several counties under his jurisdiction to build pavilions. It took several years to complete the construction. Then a proclamation was sent to the local area to collect raw rabbits and cut off a handful of rabbit fur as a mark. If anyone violated the ban and harmed these rabbits, he would be sentenced to severe punishment, including corporal punishment or death. There once was a businessman from the Western Regions who, unaware of the ban, killed a rabbit by mistake. People reported him, and more than ten people died. Liang Ji's second brother once secretly sent people to Shangdang for hunting. When Liang Ji found out, he arrested his second brother's guests and killed more than thirty people in one time. No one came back alive. Liang Ji also built another mansion in the west of the city to accommodate those fleeing traitors. Sometimes innocent people were captured and used as slaves, as many as thousands of people, which was called self-sale.
In the first year of Yuanjia of Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Huan wanted to honor Liang Ji with special grace because of his meritorious service in making him emperor, so he convened with the ministers to discuss the courtesy for Liang Ji.
The official in charge then asked Liang Ji to go to court without bowing. He could wear boots and a sword when he went to the palace. He could pay homage to the emperor and pay tribute without calling him by his name. The etiquette was similar to that of Xiao He. All the remaining households in Dingtao and Chengyang granted to Liang and Ji were granted to him, adding a total of four counties, which was equal to that of Deng Yu in the early Eastern Han Dynasty.
The reward was money, slaves, colorful silks, carriages and horses, clothes, and mansions, equal to Huo Guang's.
Use these special courtesy to show Liang Ji's merits. Every time he goes to court, he does not sit with the three princes, but has a seat to himself.
I went to court in ten days to review the affairs of the Shangshu Province.
Announce these practices to the world as a system that will last forever. Liang Ji also felt that the courtesy offered was meager and was very unhappy. He holds great power and commits evil acts even more recklessly.
All matters in the court, big and small, were decided by him without consulting him. The guards and ministers in the palace were all arranged by him. He knew all the situations in the palace and every minute thing.
All civil and military officials who were transferred to their posts or summoned by the emperor must first go to Liangji Mansion to submit a letter of thanks before they dared to go to Shangshu Province to accept orders.
Wu Shu, a native of Xiapi, was appointed as the magistrate of Wan County. Before taking office, he bid farewell to Liang Ji.
Many of Liang Ji's relatives and friends are in Wan County. Liang Ji interceded for them and asked Wu Shu to take care of them. Wu Shu replied: "Every villain who does bad things should be killed."
General, you assume the position of general by virtue of the queen's majesty. You should reward the virtuous and make up for the shortcomings of the court.
Wan County is a big city, a place where scholars gather together. Since I sat here to listen to the teachings, I have never heard you praise a loyal elder. And if you ask me to take care of those who should not take care of me, I really dare not obey your orders.
Liang Ji remained silent after hearing this, feeling very unhappy. When Wu Shu arrived in Wan County, he killed dozens of Liang Ji's disciples who had harmed the people.
Liang Ji hated Wu Shu deeply from then on. Later, Wu Shu was transferred to the position of governor of Jingzhou and bid farewell to Liang Ji before leaving. Liang Ji held a farewell banquet for him and secretly poisoned the wine.
Wu Shu died in the car as soon as he went out. There was also Hou Meng, the governor of Liaodong, who had just received the appointment and did not go to see Liang Ji. Liang Ji had him cut in half on the pretext of other matters.
At this time, the doctor Yuan Zhu, who was from Runan, was nineteen years old. He was very angry when he saw Liang Ji's cruelty and wantonness.
So he went to the palace gate and wrote to the emperor, saying: I heard Zhongni sighing that the phoenix bird would not come and the Yellow River would not come out. He lamented that his humble status could not cause the political situation of the Qingming Dynasty.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今陛下居得致之位，又有能致之资，而和气未应，贤愚失序者，势分权臣，上下壅隔之故也。
夫四时之运，功成则退，高爵厚宠，鲜不致灾。
今大将军位极功成，可为至戒，宜遵悬车之礼，高枕颐神。
传曰： 木实繁者，披枝害心。
若不抑损权盛，将无以全其身矣。
左右闻臣言，将侧目切齿，臣特以童蒙见拔，故敢忘忌讳。
昔舜、禹相戒无若丹朱，周公戒成王无如殷王纣，愿除诽谤之罪，以开天下之口。
书得奏御，冀闻而密遣掩捕著。著乃变易姓名，后托病伪死，结蒲为人，市棺殡送。
冀廉问知其诈，阴求得，笞杀之，隐蔽其事。
学生桂阳刘常，当世名儒，素善于著，冀召补令史以辱之。
时，太原郝、胡武，皆危言高论，与著友善。
translation: 
Now Your Majesty has the position to bring clarity to the political situation, and he has the talent to bring clarity to the political situation. However, the world is not yet harmonious enough to respond to the great destiny, and the wise and foolish cannot occupy their positions. This is because power is in the hands of powerful ministers, and the government and the public are blocked by decrees.
The four seasons run, and when the year is over, it will retreat. The highest title and deep favor in the world rarely do not lead to disaster.
At present, the general's power has reached the extreme, his achievements have been completed, and he can serve as a warning. Liang Ji should be allowed to follow the etiquette of becoming an official, resign, and rest in peace.
Ancient books say: If a tree has many fruits, it is easy to break its branches and harm the heart of the tree.
If Liang Ji's power is not restrained, his wealth and life will not be saved.
When your ministers hear these words from me, they will look sideways and gnash their teeth with hatred. It's just that I was promoted because I was young, so I dared to offend taboos and write a letter to speak out.
In the past, Shun and Yu warned each other not to be as arrogant and carefree as Danzhu; Zhou Gong warned King Cheng not to be as tyrannical and unethical as King Zhou of Yin. I hope that your Majesty will abolish the crime of defamation so that people in the world can dare to speak.
Yuan Zhu's memorial was delivered to the emperor. Liang Ji heard about it and secretly sent people to arrest Yuan Zhu. Yuan Zhu changed his name and surname. Later, he pretended to have died of illness, used cattails as his body, and bought a coffin for burial.
Liang Ji discovered Yuan Zhu's scam, secretly arrested Yuan Zhu, beat him to death, and concealed the incident.
Liu Chang, a student from Guiyang, was a famous Confucian at that time and had always been close friends with Yuan Zhu. Liang Ji insulted him by calling him to fill the vacancy of a minor official like Ling Shi.
At that time, Hao Xie and Hu Wu, both from Taiyuan, loved to express their honest opinions and profound insights. They are all friendly with Yuan Zhu.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
先是，等连名奏记三府，荐海内高士，而不诣冀，冀追怒之，又疑为著党，敕中部官移檄捕前奏记者并杀之，遂诛武家，死者六十余人。
初逃亡，知不得免，因舆榇奏书冀门。
书入，仰药而死，家乃得全。
及冀诛，有诏以礼祀著等。
冀诸忍忌，皆此类也。
不疑好经书，善待士，冀阴疾之，因中常侍白帝，转为光禄勋，又讽众人共荐其子胤为河南尹。
胤一名胡狗，时年十六，容貌甚陋，不胜冠带，道路见者，莫不蚩笑焉。
不疑自耻兄弟有隙，遂让位归第，与弟蒙闭门自守。
冀不欲令与宾客交通，阴使人变服至门，记往来者。
南郡太守马融、江夏太守田明，初除，过谒不疑，冀讽州郡以它事陷之，皆髡笞徙朔方。
融自刺不诛，明遂死于路。
translation: 
Originally, Hao Xie and others jointly submitted a letter to the Sangong Mansion, recommending noble and virtuous people in the world, but not to the general. Liang Ji now recalled this incident and was very angry; he also suspected that Hao Xie and others were Yuan Zhu's accomplices. So he ordered the officials in Zhongdu to issue official documents to capture those who wrote letters to the Sangong Mansion recommending virtuous people, and kill them all. He also killed Hu Wu's family, killing more than 60 people in total.
When Hao Xie escaped before, he knew that he would not avoid disaster, so he used a car to pull the coffin to Liang Ji's house to submit a letter.
After the letter was delivered, he committed suicide by taking poison.
In this way, his family was saved. After Liang Ji was executed, the imperial court issued an edict to pay homage to Yuan Zhu and others.
All the cruel and vicious things Liang Ji did were similar to this situation.
Liang Buyi loved scriptures and treated virtuous corporals. Liang Ji was secretly jealous of him, so he told Emperor Huan through the Zhongchang Shi that he should be transferred to Guangluxun. He also hinted that the ministers jointly recommended Liang Yin, Liang Ji's son, to be the Yin of Henan.
Liang Yin, also known as Hu Gou, was only sixteen years old at this time. He was ugly and could not wear official clothes or hats. Everyone who saw him on the road laughed at him.
Liang Busu felt ashamed that he was estranged from his brothers, so he resigned and went home, closing the door with his younger brother Liang Meng and not participating in foreign affairs.
Liang Ji didn't want Liang Buyu to interact with guests, so he secretly sent someone in disguise to wait in front of his door and take note of anyone coming and going.
Ma Rong, the governor of Nanjun, and Tian Ming, the governor of Jiangxia, visited Liang Buyi when they first took office. Liang Ji hinted to the state and county officials to find other things to frame them, and sentenced them all to shaved heads and whippings, and sent them to Shuofang.
Ma Rong attempted suicide and Tian Ming died on the road.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
永兴二年，封不疑子马为颍阴侯，胤子桃为城父侯。
冀一门前后七封侯，三皇后，六贵人，二大将军，夫人、女食邑称君者七人，尚公主者三人，其余卿、将、尹、校五十七人。
在位二十余年，究极满盛，威行内外，百僚侧目，莫敢违命，天子恭己而不得有所亲豫。
帝即不平之。
延熹元年，太史令陈授因小黄门徐璜，陈灾异日食之变，咎在大将军，冀闻之，讽洛阳令收考授，死于狱。帝由此发怒。
初，掖庭人邓香妻宣生女猛，香卒，宣更适梁纪。
梁纪者，冀妻寿之舅也。
寿引进猛入掖庭，见幸，为贵人，冀因欲认猛为其女以自固，乃易猛姓为梁。
时猛姊婿邴尊为议郎，冀恐尊沮败宣意，乃结刺客于偃城，刺杀尊，而又欲杀宣。
宣家在延熹里，与中常侍袁赦相比，冀使刺客登赦屋，欲入宣家。
translation: 
In the second year of Yongxing reign of Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty, Liang Ma, son of Liang Buyi, was granted the title of Marquis of Yingyin, and Liang Tao, son of Liang Yin, was granted the title of Marquis of Chengfu.
In total, Liang Ji's family has seven people who have been granted the title of marquis, three queens, six nobles, two generals, seven women and daughters who have settled in the city and become "kings", and three people who have married princesses. The remaining fifty-seven people hold official positions such as Qing, General, Yin, and Xiao.
Liang Ji had been in power for more than 20 years, and his power was extremely powerful. He exerted his despotic power inside and outside the court. All officials looked sideways and did not dare to disobey his orders. The emperor had no choice but to respect him and did not dare to handle all government affairs personally.
Emperor Huan of the Han Dynasty was already dissatisfied with Liang Ji's arrogance.
In the first year of Yanxi, Taishi ordered Chen Shuo to pass through Xiaohuangmen Xu Huang and state that the great general should be blamed for the solar eclipse disaster. Liang Ji knew about it and suggested that Luoyang ordered Chen Shuo to be arrested and tortured. Chen Shuo died in prison, and Emperor Huan was furious.
At first, the wife of Deng Xiang, a native of Yeting, named Xuan, and gave birth to a daughter, Deng Meng. Deng Xiang died, and Xuan remarried Liang Ji.
Liang Ji was the uncle of Liang Ji's wife, Sun Shou.
Sun Shou sent Deng Meng to the harem, where he was favored by Emperor Huan and made a nobleman. Liang Ji wanted to recognize Deng Meng as his daughter to consolidate his position. So Deng Meng changed his surname to Liang.
At that time, Deng Meng's brother-in-law Bing Zun served as Yilang. Liang Ji was afraid that Bing Zun would prevent Xuan from letting his daughter change her surname, so he met an assassin in Yancheng who assassinated Bing Zun and also wanted to kill Xuan.
The Xuan family lived in Yanxi, and were neighbors to Yuan She, a regular servant of the Central Government. Liang Ji sent assassins to the Yuan family's house, hoping to enter the Xuan family from there.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
赦觉之，鸣鼓会众以告宣。
宣驰入以白帝，帝大怒，遂与中常侍单超、具瑗、唐衡、左悺、徐璜等五人成谋诛冀。语在《宦者传》。
冀心疑超等，乃使中黄门张恽入省宿，以防其变。
具瑗敕吏收恽，以辄从外入，欲图不轨。
帝因是御前殿，召诸尚书入，发其事，使尚书令尹勋持节勒丞郎以下皆操兵守省阁，敛诸符节送省中。
使黄门令具瑗将左右厩驺、虎贲、羽林、都候敛戟士，合千余人，与司隶校尉张彪共围冀第。使光禄勋袁盱持节收冀大将军印绶，徙封比景都乡侯。
冀及妻寿即日皆自杀。
悉收子河南尹胤、叔父屯骑校尉让，及亲从卫尉淑、越骑校尉忠、长水校尉戟等，诸梁及孙氏中外宗亲送诏狱，无长少皆弃市。不疑、蒙先卒。其它所连及公卿、列校、尉刺史、二千石死者数十人，故吏宾客免黜者三百余人，朝廷为空，惟尹勋、袁盱及廷尉邯郸义在焉。
是时事卒从中发，使者交驰，公卿失其度，官府市里鼎沸，数日乃定，百姓莫不称庆。
收冀财货，县官斥卖，合三十余万万，以充王府，用减天下税租之半。
散其苑囿，以业穷民。
录诛冀功者，封尚书令尹勋以下数十人。
translation: 
When Yuan She found out, he beat drums to gather the people and told Xuan the situation. Xuan immediately ran to Emperor Huan to report.
Emperor Huan was furious and discussed with Shan Chao, Ju Yuan, Tang Heng, Zuo Xuanguan, Xu Huang and others to kill Liang Ji. This incident is recorded in "Eunuch Biography".
Liang Ji suspected Shan Chao and others, so he sent Zhang Yun from Zhonghuangmen to stay in the palace to prevent accidents.
Ju Yuan ordered the officials to arrest Zhang Yun, saying that he had entered the palace without permission and had evil intentions.
Emperor Huan therefore came to the front hall, called all the ministers in, and announced the matter. The minister, Yin Xun, was sent to hold the talisman, and officials below Shangshu Cheng and Shangshu Lang were sent to guard various official offices in the palace with weapons. Gather all the talismans and send them to the palace.
Huangmen ordered Ju Yuan to lead the knights, Huben, Yu Lin, Duhou swordsmen and halberds from the left and right stables, totaling more than a thousand people, together with Sili captain Zhang Biao, to surround the Liangji mansion. He sent Guangluxun Yuan Xu to collect the seal and ribbon of General Liangji with a talisman, and conferred him the title of Marquis of Bijingdu Township.
Liang Ji and his wife Sun Shou committed suicide that day.
A total of more than 300 Liang Ji's former officials and guests were dismissed from office. The court was therefore empty. Only Yin Xun, Yuan Xu and Tingwei Handan Yi were in the court.
At that time, because the incident suddenly broke out in the palace, the messengers rushed back and forth to report the incident. The ministers were at a loss and the government and the people were in great commotion. It took several days to settle down, and the people all applauded and celebrated.
Liang Ji's property was confiscated and sold by the court, totaling more than three billion yuan, which was used to replenish the national treasury and reduce half of the world's taxes.
Liang Ji's gardens were demolished and given to poor people for farming and grazing.
The meritorious personnel who killed Liang Ji were evaluated, and dozens of people below Shangshu Ling Yin Xun were awarded.


