Chunk 0: 
original: 
高皇后吕氏，生惠帝。佐高祖定天下，父兄及高祖而侯者三人。
惠帝即位，尊吕后为太后。
太后立帝姊鲁元公主女为皇后，无子，取后宫美人子名之以为太子。
惠帝崩，太子立为皇帝，年幼，太后临朝称制，大赦天下。
乃立兄子吕台、产、禄、台子通四人为王，封诸吕六人为列侯。
语在《外戚传》。
元年春正月，诏曰： 前日孝惠皇帝言欲除三族罪、妖言令，议未决而崩。
今除之。
二月，赐民爵，户一级。
初置孝弟力田二千石者一人。
夏五月丙申，赵王宫丛台灾。
立孝惠后宫子强为淮阳王，不疑为恒山王，弘为襄城侯，朝为轵侯，武为壶关侯。
秋，桃李华。
二年春，诏曰： 高皇帝匡饬天下，诸有功者皆受分弟为列侯，万民大安，莫不受休德。
translation: 
Empress Gao, the Lu family, gave birth to Emperor Hui, who assisted Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty to pacify the world. Her father and brother had three marquises under Emperor Gaozu.
After Emperor Hui succeeded to the throne, he honored Empress Lu as the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother made the daughter of Princess Lu Yuan, the sister of Emperor Hui, the Queen. She had no children, so she made the son of a beauty in the harem the Prince.
Emperor Hui died, and the prince was established as emperor. The emperor was young, and Empress Dowager Lu came to the court to perform the emperor's affairs and grant amnesty to the world.
Later, four of his brother's sons, Lu Tai, Lu Chan, Lu Lu, and Lu Tai's son Lu Tong were made kings, and six Zhu Lu were made princes.
The specific details can be found in "Book of Han·Biography of Wai Qi".
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Empress Lu's reign, she issued an edict saying: It turned out that Emperor Xiaohui intended to abolish the harsh laws that punished serious crimes and three clans, and regarded wrong words as evil words. He died before the resolution was resolved.
It has now been announced that it will be abolished.
In February, the people were rewarded with titles of nobility, one level for each household.
For the first time, an official with an annual salary of two thousand shi was set up to encourage the world's filial piety.
On the fourth day of May in the summer, a fire broke out in the Congtai of Zhao Palace.
Liu Qiang, the son of Emperor Xiaohui's harem, was made the King of Huaiyang, Liu Buyi was the King of Hengshan, Liu Hong was the Marquis of Xiangcheng, Liu Chao was the Marquis of Zhi, and Liu Wu was the Marquis of Huguan.
In autumn, peaches and plums bloom.
In the spring of the second year of Empress Lu's reign, she issued an edict saying: Emperor Gao unified the world and granted fiefs and feudal lordships to all the meritorious officials. All the people were safe and sound, and no one was immune from his kindness.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
朕思念至于久远而功名不著，亡以尊大谊，施后世。
今欲差次列侯功以定朝位，臧于高庙，世世勿绝，嗣子各袭其功位。其与列侯议定奏之。
丞相臣平言： 谨与绛侯臣勃、曲周侯臣商、颍阴侯臣婴、安国侯臣陵等议：列侯幸得赐餐钱奉邑，陛下加惠，以功次定朝位，臣请臧高庙。
奏可。
春正月乙卯，地震，羌道、武都道山崩。
夏六月丙戌晦，日有蚀之。
秋七月，恒山王不疑薨。行八铢钱。
三年夏，江水、汉水溢，流民四千余家。
秋，星昼见。
四年夏，少帝自知非皇后子，出怨言，皇太后幽之永巷。
translation: 
I consider that in the future, due to the passage of time, no one will remember his fame and honor, and will not be able to respect his great righteousness and pass it on to future generations.
Now I want to rank the status of each prince in the court according to the size of his merits. I will hide the merit book in the ancestral temple of Emperor Gao and pass it down from generation to generation. His descendants will inherit their merits and titles hereditary. Please work with the princes to submit a proposal.
Prime Minister Chen Ping reported: I have discussed with Jianghou Zhoubo, Quzhouhou Lishang, Yinhou Guanying, Anguohou Wang Ling, etc., that the princes were favored and were rewarded with rents and food. Your Majesty also extended extra favors and assigned grades based on merit. Please keep the merit book in the high temple.
Empress Lu approved this memorial.
On the 27th of the first lunar month of spring, an earthquake occurred and a landslide occurred in Wudu Road.
On June 30th in summer, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Buyi, the king of Hengshan, passed away and eight baht coins were used again.
In the summer of the third year of Empress Lu's reign, the Yangtze River and the Han River overflowed, flooding more than 4,000 houses.
In autumn, stars appear during the day.
In the summer of the fourth year of Empress Lu's reign, the young emperor secretly knew that he was not the empress's biological child, so he complained. The Empress Dowager put him under house arrest in a long alley.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
诏曰： 凡有天下治万民者，盖之如天，容之如地；上有欢心以使百姓，百姓欣然以事其上，欢欣交通而天下治。
今皇帝疾久不已，乃失惑昏乱，不能继嗣奉宗庙，守祭祀，不可属天下。
其议代之。
群臣皆曰： 皇太后为天下计，所以安宗庙、社稷甚深。
顿首奉诏。
五月丙辰，立恒山王弘为皇帝。
五年春，南越王尉佗自称南武帝。
秋八月，淮阳王强薨。
九月，发河东、上党骑屯北地。
六年春，星昼见。
夏四月，赦天下。
秩长陵令二千石。
六月，城长陵。
匈奴寇狄道，攻阿阳。
行五分钱。
七年冬十二月，匈奴寇狄道，略二千余人。
春正月丁丑，赵王友幽死于邸。
己丑晦，日有蚀之，既。
translation: 
The edict said: Anyone who governs the world and governs the people should have a mind that is as inclusive as heaven and as accommodating as the earth. The emperor governs the people from the perspective of caring for the people. Only when the people are sincere and sincere can they respect the emperor. Only when everyone is united can the country be peaceful and the people are safe.
Today's young emperor has been ill for a long time and has even gone insane. He is unable to inherit the throne, worship in the ancestral temple, guard the country, and assume the important responsibilities of the world.
Please suggest someone who can replace him.
All the ministers said: The Empress Dowager considers the fundamental interests of the country, which is crucial to the stability of the ancestral temple and the country.
The ministers and others bowed their heads and obeyed the edict.
On May 17, Wang Hong of Hengshan was made emperor.
In the spring of Empress Lu's fifth year, Wei Tuo, king of Nanyue, claimed to be Emperor Nanwu.
In the eighth month of autumn, Liu Qiang, king of Huainan, passed away.
In September, Hedong and Shangdang cavalry were mobilized to station in the north.
In the spring of Empress Lu's sixth year, stars appeared in the daytime.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
The Changling Mausoleum of Gaozu was upgraded to two thousand stones.
In June, a city was built around Changling.
The Xiongnu invaded Didao and attacked Heyang.
Exercise the nickel.
In the winter and twelfth month of the seventh year of Empress Lu, the Xiongnu invaded Didao and plundered more than 2,000 households.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month of spring, King Zhao Liu You was imprisoned in the palace and died.
On the 30th, there will be a partial solar eclipse first, and then a total solar eclipse.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
以梁王吕产为相国，赵王禄为上将军。
立营陵侯刘泽为琅邪王。
夏五月辛未，诏曰： 昭灵夫人，太上皇妃也；武哀侯、宣夫人，高皇帝兄姊也。
号谥不称，其议尊号。
丞相臣平等请尊昭灵夫人曰昭灵后，武哀侯曰武哀王，宣夫人曰昭哀后，六月，赵王恢自杀。
秋九月，燕王建薨。
南越侵盗长沙，遣隆虑侯灶将兵击之。
八年春，封中谒者张释卿为列侯。
诸中官、宦者令、丞皆赐爵关内侯，食邑。
夏，江水、汉水溢，流万余家。
秋七月辛巳，皇太后崩于未央宫。遗诏赐诸侯王各千金，将、相、列侯下至郎吏各有差。大赦天下。
上将军禄、相国产颛兵秉政，自知背高皇帝约，恐为大臣、诸侯王所诛，因谋作乱。
translation: 
Appoint Liang Wang Lu Chan as prime minister and Zhao Wang Lu Lu as general.
Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, was made King of Langya.
On the 19th day of the fifth lunar month, an edict was issued saying: Mrs. Zhaoling is the imperial concubine; Marquis Wu Ai and Mrs. Xuan are the brothers and sisters of Emperor Gao.
The posthumous title is not commensurate with the status, please suggest another posthumous title.
Prime Minister Chen Pingping asked Mrs. Zhaoling to be Queen Zhaoling, Marquis Wu Ai to be King Wu'an, and Mrs. Xuan to be Queen Zhaoai. In June, King Zhao Liu Hui committed suicide.
In the ninth month of autumn, King Liu Jian of Yan passed away.
South Vietnam invaded Changsha and sent Longluhou Zhou Zao to lead troops to drive them away.
In the spring of the eighth year of Empress Lu's reign, she made the eunuch Zhang Shiqing a marquis.
The eunuchs in the palace and the Lingcheng in charge of the eunuchs all conferred the title of Marquis of Guannei and received the taxes from their towns.
In summer, the rivers and Han Rivers flooded, destroying more than 10,000 homes.
On the 30th day of the seventh month in the autumn, the Empress Dowager and Empress Lu died in Weiyang Palace. The imperial edict gave each prince a thousand pieces of gold, and distributed them among the ministers, princes, and officials according to their rank, and offered a general amnesty to the whole world.
General Lu Lu and Prime Minister Lu Chan specialize in military and political power. He knew that if he violated Emperor Gao's rule of "no merit-based nomination", he might be harmed by ministers and princes, so he conspired to cause chaos.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
时齐悼惠王子朱虚侯章在京师，以禄女为妇，知其谋，乃使人告兄齐王，令发兵西。
章欲与太尉勃、丞相平为内应，以诛诸吕。
齐王遂发兵，又诈琅邪王泽发其国兵，并将而西。
产、禄等遣大将军灌婴将兵击之。
婴至荥阳，使人谕齐王与连和，待吕氏变而共诛之。
太尉勃与丞相平谋，以曲周侯郦商子寄与禄善，使人劫商令寄绐说禄曰： 高帝与吕后共定天下，刘氏所立九王，吕氏所立三王，皆大臣之议。
事已布告诸侯王，诸侯王以为宜。
今太后崩，帝少，足下不急之国守籓，乃为上将将兵留此，为大臣诸侯所疑。
何不速归将军印，以兵属太尉，请梁王亦归相国印，与大臣盟而之国？
齐兵必罢，大臣得安，足下高枕而王千里，此万世之利也。
translation: 
At this time, Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, son of King Qi Hui, was in Kyoto. He was Lu Lu's son-in-law. When he learned of the plot, he immediately sent someone to inform his brother King Qi, asking him to send troops to the west.
Liu Zhang prepared to work with Taiwei Zhou Bo and Prime Minister Chen Ping as internal correspondents to kill Zhu Lu.
The King of Qi then raised an army, and instigated King Langya and King Liu Ze to mobilize the troops of his country to join forces and march westward.
Lu Chan, Lu Lu and others sent General Guan Ying to lead the troops to stop the attack.
Guan Ying went to Xingyang, sent people to inform the King of Qi and united with him, waiting for the Lu family to launch a coup before carrying out the execution.
Taiwei Zhou Bo conspired with Prime Minister Chen Ping. He believed that Ji, the son of Li Shang, the Marquis of Qu Zhou, was closely related to Lu Lu, so he sent people to force Li Shang to order his son Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu and said: Emperor Gao and Queen Lu jointly established the world. The nine kings established by the Liu family and the three kings established by the Lu family were discussed by the ministers.
The discussions and decisions have been informed to all the princes and kings, and all the princes and princes have expressed their approval.
Today, the Queen Mother has passed away and the Emperor is young. You are not in a hurry to defend your own kingdoms, but you have gathered troops to stay in Kyoto as generals, which has aroused the suspicion of the ministers and princes.
Why not immediately return the general's seal, pass the military power to the Taiwei, ask Liang Wang Lu Chan to return the prime minister's seal, explain it clearly to the ministers, and then return to the feudal country?
In this way, the troops can retreat, the ministers can rest assured, and they can sit back and be king of a country thousands of miles away. This is the benefit of all times!


Chunk 5: 
original: 
禄然其计，使人报产及诸吕老人。
或以为不便，计犹豫未有所决。
禄信寄，与俱出游，过其姑吕嬃。
嬃怒曰： 汝为将而弃军，吕氏今无处矣！
乃悉出珠玉、宝器散堂下，曰： 无为它人守也！
八月庚申，平阳侯窋行御史大夫事，见相国产计事。
郎中令贾寿使从齐来，因数产曰： 王不早之国，今虽欲行，尚可得邪？
具以灌婴与齐、楚合从状告产。
平阳侯窋闻其语，驰告丞相平、太尉勃。
勃欲入北军，不得入。襄平侯纪通尚符节，乃令持节矫内勃北军。
勃复令郦寄、典客刘揭说禄，曰： 帝使太尉守北军，欲令足下之国，急归将印，辞去。不然，祸且起。
禄遂解印属典客，而以兵授太尉勃。
勃入军门，行令军中曰： 为吕氏右袒，为刘氏左袒。
军皆左袒。
translation: 
Lu Lu agreed to his plan and sent someone to tell Lu Chan and his elders.
Some feel uneasy and have different opinions without making a decision.
Lu Lu believed in Li Ji and went with him to persuade Zhu Lu. They arrived at the home of Lu Xu's sister, Empress Lu.
Lu Xunu said angrily: As a general, you gave up military power, and the Lu family will die without a burial place.
She took out all the jewels and jade and threw them in the hall. She said, "I don't have to keep these things for others!"
In August, Cao Lan, Marquis of Pingyang, served as the imperial censor and met with Prime Minister Lu Chan to discuss state affairs.
The doctor ordered Jia Shou to return Qi, so he accused Lu Chan and said: If you didn't go to your feudal country as soon as possible, can you still leave now if you want to?
Tell Lu Chan specifically about Guan Ying's alliance with Qi and Chu.
After Pingyang Hou Cao Lan heard about it, he hurriedly informed Prime Minister Chen Ping and Taiwei Zhou Bo.
Bo wanted to join the Northern Army, but failed. Marquis Jitong of Xiangping was in charge of Fujie, so he falsely sent military orders in the name of the emperor to let Zhou Bo enter the camp and take charge of the Northern Army.
Zhou Bo also sent Li Ji and Dianke Liu Jie to persuade Lu Lu. They said: The emperor sent a Taiwei to take over the Northern Army. If you want everyone to return to the feudal country, you should resign the general and leave, otherwise disaster will be imminent.
Lu Lu took off the general's seal and gave it to Liu Jie, and handed over the military power to Taiwei Zhou Bo.
Zhou Bo entered the Chinese army's tent and sent an order to the army: Support Lu's right side and Liu's left side.
The officers and men were all left-handed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
勃遂将北军。
然尚有南军，丞相平召朱虚侯章佐勃。勃令章监军门，令平阳侯告卫尉，毋内相国产殿门。
产不知禄已去北军，入未央宫欲为乱。
殿门弗内，徘徊往来。
平阳侯驰语太尉勃，勃尚恐不胜，未敢诵言诛之，乃谓朱虚侯章曰： 急入宫卫帝。
章从勃请卒千人，入未央宫掖门，见产廷中。
餔时，遂击产，产走。
天大风，从官乱，莫敢斗者。
逐产，杀之郎中府吏舍厕中。
章已杀产，帝令谒者持节劳章。章欲夺节，谒者不肯，章乃从与载，因节信驰斩长乐卫尉吕更始。
还入北军，复报太尉勃。
勃起拜贺章，曰： 所患独产，今已诛，天下定矣。
辛酉，斩吕禄，笞杀吕嬃。
translation: 
Zhou Bo then took control of the Northern Army.
However, there were still Southern troops. Prime Minister Chen Ping summoned Marquis Zhu Xu and Liu Zhang to assist Zhou Bo. Zhou Bo sent Liu Zhang to supervise the military gate and Marquis Pingyang to inform the guards not to let Prime Minister Lu Chan enter the palace gate.
Lu Chan did not know that Lu Lu had lost control of the Northern Army and wanted to enter Weiyang Palace to launch a coup.
The guards at the palace gate refused to let him in, so he wandered back and forth outside the palace.
Pingyang Hou immediately reported to Taiwei Zhou Bo. Zhou Bo was afraid that it would be difficult to win. He did not dare to publicly announce the execution of the Lu family, so he told Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang: Enter the palace quickly to defend the emperor.
Liu Zhang asked Zhou Bo to send thousands of troops to the side gate of Weiyang Palace and saw Lu Chan walking around in the court.
At noon, they attacked Lu Chan, but Lu Chan escaped.
At this time, strong winds rose sharply, and Lu Chan's entourage was in chaos. No one dared to resist.
Liu Zhang led his troops to chase Lu Chan, rushed to the official toilet of Langzhong Mansion and killed him.
Liu Zhang had killed Lu Chan, and the Han Emperor sent his attendants to hold the emperor's talisman to comfort Liu Zhang. Liu Zhang wanted to seize the festival, but the attendant refused, so Liu Zhang and his attendants rode in a car together, and rushed into Changle Palace holding the emperor's talisman to kill the Changle Palace guard Lu Gengshi.
Liu Zhang returned to the Northern Army and reported the situation to Zhou Bo.
Zhou E immediately thanked and congratulated Liu Zhang. He said: The one who fears the most is Lu Chan. Now that Lu Chan has been executed, the world will be at peace.
So he beheaded Lu Lu and flogged Lu Xunu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
分部悉捕吕男女，无少长皆斩之。
大臣相与阴谋，以为少帝及三弟为王者皆非孝惠子，复共诛之，尊立文帝。语在周勃、高五王《传》。
赞曰：孝惠、高后之时，海内得离战国之苦，君臣俱欲无为，故惠帝拱己，高后女主制政，不出房闼，而天下晏然，刑罚罕用，民务稼穑，衣食滋殖。
translation: 
They sent out men and horses to capture the men and women of Lu, and killed them all regardless of old or young.
The ministers conspired with each other. They thought that the young emperor and his three younger brothers who were kings were not the sons of Emperor Hui, so they killed them all and enthroned Emperor Wen. The story is recorded in the "Book of Han·Zhou Bo and Gao Wu Wang Biography".
Ban Gu commented: When Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty was Xiao Hui and Empress Gao, the world was freed from the pain of war, and the monarchs and ministers wanted to rule by doing nothing. Therefore, Emperor Hui bowed down to bring peace to the world, and Empress Gao used women to preside over government affairs. The world was peaceful without leaving the palace, punishments were used sparingly, and the people could only work on farming, so that they had enough food and clothing.


