Chunk 0: 
original: 
翟方进字子威，汝南上蔡人也。
家世微贱，至方进父翟公，好学，为郡文学。
方进年十二三，失父孤学，给事太守府为小史，号迟顿不及事，数为掾史所詈辱。
方进自伤，乃从汝南蔡父相问己能所宜。
蔡父大奇其形貌，谓曰： 小史有封侯骨，当以经术进，努力为诸生学问。
方进既厌为小史，闻蔡父言，心喜，因病归家，辞其后母，欲西至京师受经。
母怜其幼，随之长安，织屦以给。方进读经博士，受《春秋》。
积十余年，经学明习，徒众日广，诸儒称之。
以射策甲科为郎。
二三岁，举明经，迁议郎。
是时，宿儒有清河胡常，与方进同经。
常为先进，名誉出方进下，心害其能，论议不右方进。
方进知之，候伺常大都授时，遣门下诸生至常所问大义疑难，因记其说。
如是者久之，常知方进之宗让己，内不自得，其后居士大夫之间未尝不称述方进，遂相亲友。
河平中，方进转为博士。
数年，迁朔方刺史，居官不烦苛，所察应条辄举，甚有威名。
translation: 
Zhai Fangjin, courtesy name Ziwei, was from Shangcai, Runan.
His family has been humble and humble for generations. Fang Jin's father Zhai Gong was fond of learning and served as a county scholar.
When Fang Jin was twelve or thirteen years old, his father died and he could no longer continue his studies. He worked as a minor historian in the prefect's mansion. He was considered slow and could not do good things, and was repeatedly scolded and insulted by the governor.
Fang Jin was very sad, so he went to meet Cai's father in Runan and asked him what he was suitable for.
Cai's father thought that his appearance was unusual and told him: You have the bone image of a feudal lord. You should use it according to the classics and study the knowledge of Confucian scholars.
Fang Jin was tired of being a minor historian. After hearing what Cai's father said, he felt very happy, so he returned home saying he was ill, said goodbye to his stepmother, and wanted to go west to the capital to study scriptures.
His mother felt pity for Fang Jin when he was young, so she came to Chang'an with him, knitted shoes for him to study, and taught him "Spring and Autumn" by a doctor.
After more than ten years of accumulation and study, he became proficient in Confucian classics, and his number of disciples increased day by day, and all the Confucian scholars praised him.
Take Shece Jiake as the man.
Two or three years later, he was promoted to Mingjing and moved to Yilang.
At this time, there was a mature and knowledgeable scholar Hu Chang from Qinghe, who was studying the same classics as Fang Jin.
Hu Chang was a senior, but his reputation was not as good as Fang Jin's. He was jealous of Fang Jin's talent, and did not praise Fang Jin when discussing.
After Fang Jin knew about it, he waited for Hu Chang to gather his students to give lectures, and sent students under his disciples to Hu Chang's place to ask for advice on difficult issues in the scriptures, and record Hu Chang's teachings accordingly.
After such a long time, Hu Chang felt uneasy knowing that Fang Jin respected and humbled him. From then on, he was known as Fang Jin among the scholar-bureaucrats, and they became close friends.
During the Heping period, Fang Jin became a doctor.
A few years later, he was moved to Shuofang as governor. When serving as an official, he is not cumbersome and harsh, and his observations are carried out in an orderly manner, which is very prestigious.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
再三奏事，迁为丞相司直。
从上甘泉，行驰道中，司隶校尉陈庆劾奏方进，没入车马。
既至甘泉宫，会殿中，庆与廷尉范延寿语，时庆有章劾，自道： 行事以赎论，今尚书持我事来，当于此决。
前我为尚书时，尝有所奏事，忽忘之，留月余。
方进于是举劾庆曰： 案庆奉使刺举大臣，故为尚书，知机事周密一统，明主躬亲不解。
庆有罪未伏诛，无恐惧心，豫自设不坐之比。
又暴扬尚书事，言迟疾无所在，亏损圣德之聪明，奉诏不谨，皆不敬，臣谨以劾。
庆坐免官。
会北地浩商为义渠长所捕，亡，长取其母，与豭猪连系都亭下。
商兄弟会宾客，自称司隶掾、长安县尉，杀义渠长妻子六人，亡。
translation: 
He reported to the imperial court many times and was moved to the position of Prime Minister Sizhi.
He followed Emperor Cheng to Ganquan and drove on the Chi Road. Chen Qing, the captain of Sili School, impeached him, so Fang Jin had his carriage and horses confiscated.
After arriving at Ganquan Palace, they gathered in the palace and talked with Chen Qing and Tingwei Fan Yanshou. At that time, Chen Qing was being impeached by a memorial. Chen Qing said himself: "What happened in the past should be punished as a crime. Now that the Minister has come with a memorial to impeach me, the verdict should be wrapped up here."
When I was a minister, I had something to report, but I suddenly forgot about it and put it aside for more than a month.
Fang Jin therefore impeached Chen Qing and said: Chen Qing was ordered to investigate and expose the ministers, so he was the minister. He understood that confidential matters were carefully arranged and planned, and the Ming Lord personally handled them without slacking off.
Chen Qing was guilty but did not punish him. He was not afraid of it and set up an example of not convicting him in advance.
Moreover, he leaked the information about promoting the minister, saying that speed does not matter, which undermines the wisdom and wisdom of Shengde, and is not careful in following the edict. These are all disrespectful manifestations, and I would like to impeach him for this.
Chen Qing was dismissed from his official post.
It happened that Haoshang from the North was arrested by the county magistrate of Yiqu and later fled. The magistrate captured his mother and tied her with the boar under the capital pavilion.
A guest at the Haoshang Brotherhood Conference, claiming to be Sili Peng and Chang'an County Lieutenant, killed six of the wife and children of the Yiqu County Magistrate and then escaped.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
丞相、御史请遣掾史与司隶校尉、部刺史并力逐捕，察无状者，奏可。
司隶校尉涓勋奏言： 《春秋》之义，王人微者序乎诸侯之上，尊王命也。
臣幸得奉使，以督察公卿以下为职，今丞相宣请遣掾史，以宰士督察天子奉使命大夫，甚悖逆顺之理。
宣本不师受经术，因事以立奸威，案浩商所犯，一家之祸耳，而宣欲专权作威，乃害于国，不可之大者。
愿下中朝特进列侯、将军以下，正国法度。
议者以为，丞相掾不宜移书皆趣司隶。
会浩商捕得伏诛，家属徙合浦。
故事，司隶校尉位在司直下，初除，谒两府，其有所会，居中二千石前，与司直并迎丞相、御史。
初，方进新视事，而涓勋亦初拜为司隶，不肯谒丞相、御史大夫，后朝会相见，礼节又倨。
方进阴察之，勋私过光禄勋辛庆忌，又出逢帝舅成都侯商道路，下车立，■过，乃就车。
于是方进举奏其状，因曰： 臣闻国家之兴，尊尊而敬长，爵位上下之礼，王道纲纪。
translation: 
The prime minister and the imperial censor requested that the governor, the commander of the Sili school, and the governor of the ministry be sent to jointly hunt down the person and find out the person who had committed an unspeakable crime.
Juanxun, the captain of the Sili School, reported: According to the classics and meanings of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the king's humble official position is ranked above the official positions of the princes, which means respecting the king's order.
I was fortunate enough to accept the mission, with the responsibility of supervising and inspecting officials below the rank of minister. Now Prime Minister Xue Xuan has requested to send a censor to let the prime minister's subordinate officials supervise and inspect the emperor's ministers. This is very contrary to the principle of disobedience.
Xue Xuan originally did not have a teacher to learn Confucianism, so he relied on his ministry to establish his prestige. Looking at what Haoshang did, it was nothing more than a disaster to the family, but Xue Xuan wanted to be authoritarian because of this, which was harmful to our country and did the last thing he should have done.
It is hoped that the matter will be handed over to officials below the level of Zhongko, Tejin, Liehou, and General to rectify the country's legal system.
Commentators believed that it was not appropriate for the Prime Minister to send documents to supervise the ministers.
It happened that Haoshang was arrested and executed. His family was moved to Hepu.
According to the old practice, the position of Sili Xiaowei was below Sizhi. When he was newly appointed, he met the Prime Minister and the Censor. During the court meeting, the Sili Xiaowei was in front of Zhong Erqian Shi, and he and Sizhi welcomed the Prime Minister and the Censor.
At the beginning, Fang Jin had just taken up his post, and Wu Xun had recently been appointed as Sili, so he refused to meet the prime minister and the imperial censor. Later, when they met at court, the etiquette was very arrogant.
Fang Jin secretly observed him and found that Juanxun visited Guangluxun and Xin Qingji privately. He went out again and met his uncle Hou Shang of Chengdu on the road. He got off the car and stood aside, waiting for Wang Shang to pass before getting in the car.
Therefore, Fang Jin reported Juan Xun's crime and said accordingly: I heard that the revitalization of the country lies in respecting the elders and observing the etiquette of the nobles. This is the law and discipline of the king.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
《春秋》之义，尊上公谓之宰，海内无不统焉。
丞相进见圣主，御坐为起，在舆为下。
群臣宜皆承顺圣化，以视四方。
勋吏二千石，幸得奉使，不遵礼仪，轻谩宰相，贱易上卿，而又诎节失度，邪谄无常，色厉内荏。
堕国体，乱朝廷之序，不宜处位。
臣请下丞相免勋。
时，太中大夫平当给事中奏言： 方进国之司直，不自敕正以先群下，前亲犯令行驰道中，司隶庆平心举劾，方进不自责悔而内挟私恨，伺记庆之从容语言，以诋欺成罪。
后丞相宣以一不道贼，请遣掾督趣司隶校尉，司隶校尉勋自奏暴于朝廷，今方进复举奏勋。
议者以为方进不以道德辅正丞相，苟阿助大臣，欲必胜立威，宜抑绝其原。
勋素行公直，奸人所恶，可少宽假，使遂其功名。
translation: 
According to the scriptures and meanings of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the Lord is respected as the Prime Minister, and everything in the country is under his command.
When the prime minister comes to see the emperor, the emperor should stand up from his seat; when the emperor is on the way, when the prime minister pays homage, the emperor should get off the car.
All ministers should accept the teachings of the Holy Dynasty and inform the world.
However, Juanxun was an official with two thousand stones. He was fortunate enough to be sent on an envoy, but he did not abide by the etiquette. He looked down upon the prime minister and despised the minister. He also distorted etiquette and lost his grace. He was treacherous and flattering and had no normal heart. He was dignified in appearance and cowardly in heart.
Those who destroy the dignity of the country and disrupt the order of the court should not hold official positions.
I request the Prime Minister to dismiss Juan Dong.
At that time, Taizhong doctor Ping was in charge of the affairs. He reported that Fang Jin was the minister of the country. He did not first correct himself to set an example for others. He had previously violated the law and drove on the road. Chen Qing, the minister, tried to impeach him fairly. Fang Jin did not feel guilty or regretful but harbored personal hatred. He recorded Chen Qing's chatting words in order to slander and deceive him and convict him.
Later, Prime Minister Xue Xuan asked to send a military official to supervise Sili Xiaowei because of a bad guy who killed six innocent family members. Sili Xiaowei Juanxun himself submitted a memorial to the court, and now Fang Jin impeached Juanxun again.
Commentators believe that Fang Jin does not use morality to assist the prime minister, but only favors and helps ministers. If he wants to win and establish authority, this source should be stopped and cut off.
Juanxun has always acted fairly and upright, and is disgusted by traitors. You can be a little tolerant and let him achieve his fame.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
上以方进所举应科，不得用逆诈废正法，遂贬勋为昌陵令。
方进旬岁间免两司隶，朝廷由是惮之。
丞相宣甚器重焉，常诫掾史： 谨事司直，翟君必在相位，不久。
是时，起昌陵，营作陵邑，贵戚近臣子弟宾客多辜榷为奸利者，方进部掾史复案，发大奸赃数千万。
上以为任公卿，欲试以治民，徙方进为京兆尹，搏击豪强，京师畏之。
时，胡常为青州刺史，闻之，与方进书曰： 窃闻政令甚明，为京兆能，则恐有所不宜。
方进心知所谓，其后少弛威严。
居官三岁，永始二年迁御史大夫。
数月，会丞相薛宣坐广汉盗贼群起及太皇太后丧时三辅吏并征发为奸，免为庶人。
方进亦坐为京兆尹时奉丧事烦扰百姓，左迁执金吾。
二十余日，丞相官缺，群臣多举方进，上亦器其能，遂擢方进为丞相，封高陵侯，食邑千户。
身既富贵，而后母尚在，方进内行修饰，供养甚笃。
及后母终，既葬三十六日，除服起视事，以为身备汉相，不敢逾国家之制。
translation: 
Because the emperor's impeachment by Fang Jin was appropriate, he could not abolish the law just because he suspected others of fraud in advance, so he demoted Juanxun to the rank of Changling Order.
Fang Jin dismissed two ministers in one year, and everyone in the court was afraid of him.
Prime Minister Xue Xuan valued Fang Jin very much and often warned the minister: "Serve Si Zhi with caution, and Zhai Fangjin will definitely be in power soon."
At this time, Changling was being built and the imperial mausoleums and cities were being built. Many of the emperor's internal and external relatives and the children and guests of his close ministers had exclusive power for personal gain. Fang Jin arranged for a historical inspection and revealed that tens of millions of filthy items had been secretly hidden.
The emperor believed that he was qualified for the position of public minister and wanted to use him to govern the people. He transferred him to the position of Jing Zhaoyin. Fang Jin attacked the powerful and powerful, and everyone in the capital was afraid of him.
At that time, Hu Chang was the governor of Qingzhou. When he heard about this, he wrote to Fang Jin: I heard privately that your decrees are very strict. With Jing Zhaoyin's talents, I am afraid that he will feel uncomfortable.
Fang Jin knew in his heart what Hu Chang was referring to, and then relaxed his dignity a little.
Fang Jin served as Jingzhaoyin for three years, and was promoted to imperial censor in the second year of Yongshi.
A few months later, Prime Minister Xue Xuan happened to be exempted from being a civilian because of the riots caused by thieves in the vast desert and the three auxiliary officials of Zha during the funeral of the Empress Dowager.
Fang Jin was also demoted to Zhijinwu because he was ordered to hold funerals when he was appointed Jingzhao Yin and disturbed the people.
Twenty days later, the official position of prime minister became vacant. Most of the ministers recommended Fang Jin. The emperor also valued Fang Jin's talents, so he promoted Fang Jin to be prime minister and made him the Marquis of Gaoling, granting him a land of thousands of households.
Fang Jin was already rich, but his stepmother was still alive. He paid attention to cultivating family conduct and worshiped his mother very piously and generously.
When his stepmother passed away and was buried twenty-six days later, he took off his funeral clothes and started working. He believed that as the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, he did not dare to go beyond the country's system.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
为相公洁，请托不行郡国。
持法刻深，举奏牧守九卿，峻文深诋，中伤者尤多。
如陈咸、朱博、萧育、逢信、孙闳之属，皆京师世家，以材能少历牧守列卿，知名当世，而方进特立后起，十余年间至宰相，据法以弹咸等，皆罢退之。
初，咸最先进，自元帝初为卿史中丞显名朝廷矣。
成帝初即位，擢为部刺史，历楚国、北海、东郡太守。
阳朔中，京兆尹王章讥切大臣，而荐琅邪太守冯野王可代大将军王凤辅政，东郡太守陈咸可御史大夫。
是时，方进甫从博士为刺史云。
后方进为京兆尹，咸从南阳太守入为少府，与方进厚善。
先是，逢信已从高第郡守历京兆、太仆为卫尉矣，官簿皆在方进之右。
及御史大夫缺，三人皆名卿，俱在选中，而方进得之。
会丞相宣有事与方进相连，上使五二千石杂问丞相、御史，咸诘责方进，冀得其处，方进心恨。
translation: 
As prime minister, he was impartial and honest, and did not ask the four counties and counties for personal matters.
The law is strict and strict, and the ministers and ministers are reported to the nine ministers. The laws are strict and detailed and are deeply slandered. There are many people who conspire to frame him.
People such as Chen Xian, Zhu Bo, Xiao Yu, Feng Xin, and Sun Hong all came from aristocratic families in the capital. Because of their talents, they served as ministers at a young age and were very famous at that time. However, Fang Jin came from behind because of his outstanding performance and was promoted to prime minister in more than ten years. Chen Xian and others were impeached according to the law, and they were all dismissed.
Previously, Chen Xian was the first to become an official, and he had become famous in the court since he was appointed as the censor in the early years of Emperor Yuan.
As soon as Emperor Cheng came to the throne, he was promoted to the governor of the Ministry, and successively served as the prefect of Chu, Beihai, and Shujun.
During the Yangshuo period, Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang was deeply responsible for the ministers, and recommended Feng Yewang, the prefect of Langye, to be suitable to replace the general Wang Feng to assist the government, and Chen Xian, the prefect of Shujun, to be the imperial censor.
At this time, Fang Jincai was appointed as governor from doctor.
Later, Fang Jin served as Jing Zhaoyin, and Chen Xian entered the imperial court from Nanyang Prefecture as Shaofu, and was very close to Fang Jin.
Previously, Fengxin had served as the governor of Gaodi County, Jingzhaoyin, Taipu, and Weiwei. His achievements and qualifications as an official were superior to Fang Jin's.
When the official post of imperial censor became vacant, Chen Xian, Fang Jin, and Feng Xin, all famous ministers, were all on the list of candidates, and Fang Jin got the official post.
It happened that Prime Minister Xue Xuan had something to do with Fang Jin, so the emperor sent two thousand stone and five people to jointly interrogate the prime minister and the censor. Chen Xian blamed Fang Jin, hoping to get his position as censor, so Fang Jin held a grudge.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
初，大将军凤奏除陈汤为中郎，与从事。
凤薨后，从弟车骑将军音代凤辅政，亦厚汤。
逢信、陈咸皆与汤善，汤数称之于凤、音所。
久之，音薨，凤弟成都侯商复为大司卫马将军，辅政。
商素憎陈汤，白其罪过，下有司案验，遂免汤，徙敦煌。
时，方进新为丞相，陈咸内惧不安，乃令小冠杜子夏往观其意，微自解说。
子夏既过方进，揣知其指，不敢发言。
居无何，方进奏咸与逢信： 邪枉贪污，营私多欲。
皆知陈汤奸佞倾覆，利口不轨，而亲交赂遗，以求荐举。
后为少府，数馈遗汤。
信、咸幸得备九卿，不思尽忠正身，内自知行辟亡功效，而官媚邪臣，欲以徼幸，苟得亡耻。
孔子曰： 鄙夫可与事君也与哉！
咸、信之谓也。
translation: 
Previously, General Wang Feng petitioned to appoint Chen Tang as Zhonglang, and all political matters were done after discussing with Chen Tang.
After Wang Feng's death, his cousin, Chariot and Cavalry General Wang Yin, replaced Wang Feng to assist the government, and he also valued Chen Tang.
Feng Xin and Chen Xian were both friendly with Chen Tang, and Chen Tang also repeatedly praised Feng Xin and Chen Xian in front of Wang Feng and Wang Yin.
A long time later, Wang Yin died, and Wang Feng's younger brother, Hou Shang of Chengdu, was appointed as General Sima Wei to assist the government.
Wang Shang had always hated Chen Tang, so he reported his crimes. The emperor asked Yousi to investigate and confirm, then dismissed Chen Tang and exiled him to Dunhuang.
At that time, Fang Jin was the new prime minister. Chen Xian was frightened and uneasy, so he ordered Xiaoguan Du Zixia to detect Fang Jin's intentions and secretly defend himself.
After Zixia visited Fang Jin, he found out Fang Jin's intentions and did not dare to speak for Chen Xian.
Not long after, Fang Jin reported that Chen Xian and Feng Xin were evil, corrupt and selfish.
They all knew that Chen Tang was treacherous, flattering, capricious, and eloquent and eloquent, but they still kept close contact with him and gave him money and gifts to seek his recommendation.
They later became Shaofu and donated property to Chen Tang many times.
Feng Xin and Chen Xian were lucky enough to be among the nine ministers. They did not want to be loyal and upright, and they knew in their hearts that improper behavior would have no effect. However, they flattered evil ministers in order to gain relatives and favors, and they were so harsh that they lost their integrity.
Confucius said: Can such a person serve the king with him?
I’m talking about Chen Xian and Feng Xin.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
过恶暴见，不宜处位，臣请免以示天下。
奏可。
后二岁余，诏举方正直言之士，红阳侯立举咸对策，拜为光禄大夫给事中。
方进复奏： 咸前为九卿，坐为贪邪免，自知罪恶暴陈，依托红阳侯立徼幸，有司莫敢举奏。
冒浊苟容，不顾耻辱，不当蒙方正举，备内朝臣。
并劾红阳侯立选举故不以实。
有诏免咸，勿劾立。
后数年，皇太后姊子侍中卫尉定陵侯淳于长有罪，上以太后故，免官勿治罪。
有司奏请遣长就国，长以金钱与立，立上封事为长求留曰： 陛下既托文以皇太后故，诚不可更有它计。
后长阴事发，遂下狱。
方进劾立： 怀奸邪，乱朝政，欲倾误要主上，狡猾不道，请下狱。
上曰： 红阳侯，朕之舅，不忍致法，遣就国。
于是方进复奏立党友曰： 立素行积为不善，众人所共知。
邪臣自结，附托为党，庶几立与政事，欲获其利。
今立斥还就国，所交结尤著者，不宜备大臣，为郡守。
案后将军朱博、巨鹿太守孙闳、故光禄大夫陈咸与立交通厚善，相与为腹心，有背公死党之信，欲相攀援，死而后已；皆内有不仁之性，而外有俊材，过绝人伦，勇猛果敢，处事不疑，所居皆尚残贼酷虐，苛刻惨毒以立威，而无纤介爱利之风。
天下所共知，愚者犹惑。
translation: 
Their mistakes and evils have been revealed and they are no longer suitable for holding official positions. I request that they be removed to make it known to the world.
The emperor agreed.
More than two years later, the emperor issued an edict to recommend talents with Fang Zhengyan. Hongyang Marquis recommended Chen Xian to respond to policy questions. The emperor appointed Chen Xian as Guanglu doctor to Shizhong.
Fang Jin reported again: Chen Xian's former name was Jiu Qing, and he was dismissed because of his corrupt behavior. He himself knew that his crimes were exposed, and he was lucky enough to get the job thanks to Hongyang Houli, but no one dared to report him.
Chen Xian was corrupt, harsh and allowed to live in the world. He did not care about the shame. He should not accept Fang Zheng's recommendation and only occupied the position of minister in the inner dynasty.
Moreover, Hongyang Houli was impeached for deliberately not following the truth when selecting and recommending talents.
The emperor issued an edict to remove Chen Xian, but ordered not to impeach him.
A few years later, Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, the son of the Empress Dowager's sister, was found guilty. Because of the Empress Dowager, the emperor removed Chun Yuchang from his official position but did not punish him.
A senior official requested that Chun Yuchang be sent to his county. Chun Yuchang bribed Li with money and immediately submitted a sealed memorial to Chun Yuchang, requesting him to stay. He said: Your Majesty has already issued a Shao letter because of the empress dowager. You really can't have any other plan.
Later, Chunyu Chang was arrested and imprisoned because his secret affairs were exposed.
Fang Jin impeached Li for being treacherous, disrupting the government, trying to subvert and threaten the emperor, being cunning and unethical, and asked the emperor to sentence him to prison.
The emperor said: "Hongyang Hou is my uncle. I can't bear to use legal sanctions, so I send him to the county."
So Fang Jin went to Li's cronies again and said: "Li has always done many bad things, and everyone knows that."
The evil ministers took it upon themselves to collude with him and become close friends with him. They hoped that Li Neng would participate in political affairs and gain personal gain.
Now that he has been expelled to the county, the people he has close relationships with are not suitable to serve as ministers or county guards.
After the inspection, General Zhu Bo, Julu Prefect Sun Gui, and former Guanglu doctor Chen Xian became close friends and became each other's confidants. They had a pact to become buddies against justice and wanted to support each other until death; they all harbored inner feelings. He has an unkind character, but has outstanding intelligence, surpasses everyone, is brave and courageous, and does not hesitate in doing things. He usually advocates cruelty, cruelty, cruelty, and violence, and relies on cruelty and viciousness to establish prestige, without any intention of benevolence and benefit.
Everyone in the world knows it, and even fools are confused.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
孔子曰： 人而不仁如礼何！
人而不仁如乐何！
言不仁之人，亡所施用；不仁而多材，国之患也。
此三人皆内怀奸猾，国之所患，而深相与结，信于贵戚奸臣，此国家大忧，大臣所宜没身而争也。昔季孙行父有害曰： 见有善于君者爱之，若孝子之养父母也；见不善者诛之，若鹰鹯之逐鸟爵也。
翅翼虽伤，不避也。
贵戚强党之众诚难犯，犯之，众敌并怨，善恶相冒。
臣幸得备宰相，不敢不尽死。
请免博、闳、咸归故郡，以销奸雄之党，绝群邪之望。
奏可。
咸既废锢，复徙故郡，以忧死。
translation: 
Confucius said: What should I do if I employ people without courtesy?
What should I do if I employ people who are not benevolent?
This means that people without benevolence and righteousness are of no use to the country. People without benevolence and righteousness who are very talented are a disaster for the country.
These three people are all treacherous and cunning, which is a concern for the country, but they are deeply colluded with each other to win the trust of noble relatives and treacherous ministers. This is a great worry for the country, and it is something that ministers should sacrifice their lives to admonish. In the past, Ji Sunxing's father once said: When you see someone who is good for you, you love him, just like a filial son who supports his parents, and when he sees someone who is disadvantageous, he attacks him, just like an eagle chasing away birds.
Even if the eagle's wings are injured, it will not escape.
It is indeed difficult to offend a noble relative's close friends. If they are offended, all the enemies will be resentful, and good and evil will cover up each other.
I am fortunate enough to serve as prime minister, and I dare not not do my best.
Ask the emperor to remove Zhu Bo, Sun Hong, and Chen Xian and return them to their former counties to eliminate the evil gangs and cut off the hope of the evil gangs.
The emperor is ready to play.
Chen Xian had been dismissed from office and prohibited from holding office again. He was sent back to his hometown and died of illness due to worry and anger.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
方进知能有余，兼通文法吏事，以儒雅缘饬法律，号为通明相，天子甚器重之，奏事亡不当意，内求人主微指以固其位。
初，定陵侯淳于长虽外戚，然以能谋议为九卿，新用事，方进独与长交，称荐之。
及长坐大逆诛，诸所厚善皆坐长免，上以方进大臣，又素重之，为隐讳。
方进内惭，上疏谢罪乞骸骨。
上报曰： 定陵侯长已伏其辜，君虽交通，传不云乎？ 朝过夕改，君子与之 ，君何疑焉？
其专心一意毋怠，近医药以自持。
方进乃起视事，条奏长所厚善京兆尹孙宝、右扶风萧育，刺史二千石以上免二十余人，其见任如此。
方进虽受《穀梁》，然好《左氏传》、天文星历，其《左氏》则国师刘歆，星历则长安令田终术师也。
厚李寻，以为议曹。
为相九岁，绥和二年春荧惑守心，寻奏记言： 应变之权，君侯所自明。
往者数白，三光垂象，变动见端，山川水泉，反理视患，民人讹谣，斥事感名。
translation: 
Fang Jin was rich in knowledge and talent, and he also knew the law and officials. He decorated the law with elegant writing and was called the Tongming Prime Minister. The emperor valued him very much. Fang Jin reported to the emperor everything that was not in line with his wishes and ordered him. He also explored the emperor's hidden will to consolidate his position.
Previously, Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang was a relative, but because he was good at strategy, he was listed as the Jiuqing. When he first took office, Fang Jin interacted with Chun Yuchang alone, praised and recommended him.
When Chun Yuchang was executed for treason, all those who were friendly to Chun Yuchang were dismissed from their posts because of him. Because Fang Jin was a minister, the emperor always valued him and concealed the secrets for him.
Fang Jin felt guilty and asked to resign and go home.
The emperor replied: Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang has already confessed his crime. Although you associate with him, doesn't it say so in the scriptures? If you know your mistakes in the morning, you will correct them in the evening. A gentleman praises him. What doubts do you have?
Please stay focused and don't slack off. See your doctor and take medicine to take care of yourself.
Fang Jin just got up to do things, and reported one by one to Chunyu's elders, Yin Sunbao of Jingzhao and Xiao Yu of Youfufeng. There were more than 20 people who had been dismissed from their posts as governors with more than 2,000 shi. Fang Jin was trusted by the emperor.
Although Fang Jin studied "Gu Liang Zhuan", he loved "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and astronomical ephemeris. His "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was taught to the national teacher Liu Xin, and the ephemeris was taught to Chang'an Lingtian Zhongshu.
Fang Jin valued Li Xun and appointed him as Yi Cao.
Fang Jin had been prime minister for nine years. In the spring of the second year of Suihe, Mars entered the heart of the sky. Li Xun wrote in a memorial: You know the tactics of dealing with changes.
It has been reported many times in the past that Yingshisu, Dongjingsu, and Mars show signs and changes, and mountains, rivers, and springs show disasters contrary to common sense, but the rumors spread by the people have come true.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
三者既效，可为寒心。
今提扬眉，矢贯中，狼奋角，弓且张，金历库，士逆度，辅湛没，火守舍，万岁之期，近慎朝暮。
上无恻怛济世之功，下无推让避贤之效，欲当大位，为具臣以全身，难矣！
大责日加，安得但保斥逐之戮？
阖府三百余人，唯君侯择其中，与尽节转凶。
方进忧之，不知所出。
会郎贲丽善为星，言大臣宜当之。
上乃召见方进。
还归，未及引决，上遂赐册曰： 皇帝问丞相：君孔子之虑，孟贲之勇，朕嘉与君同心一意，庶几有成。
惟君登位，于今十年，灾害并臻，民被饥饿，加以疾疫溺死，关门牡开，失国守备，盗贼党辈。
吏民残贼，殴杀良民，断狱岁岁多前。
上书言事，交错道路，怀奸朋党，相为隐蔽，皆亡忠虑，群下凶凶，更相嫉妒，其咎安在？
translation: 
These three things have been fulfilled, which can be said to be chilling.
In this photo, the Ti star raises its horns, the Wandering Star is in the center of the arc, Sirius raises its horns, the Tiangong star shines, Venus crosses the sky, Saturn goes retrograde, the auxiliary stars sink and disappear, Mars guards the home for thirty years, and the day of death is approaching.
You have no merit in saving the world, and you have no excuse to be humble and avoid the virtuous people. If you want to be in a high position and be a minister without merit to protect yourself, how difficult it is!
The great punishment is getting worse day by day. How can we only guarantee the result of being expelled?
There are more than 300 people in your house. I hope you will choose the right people and work together to preserve your integrity and turn bad things into good ones.
Fang Jin was very worried about this matter and didn't know what to do.
It happened that Lang Bili was good at observing astrology and said that the minister should bear this responsibility.
The emperor then summoned Fang Jin.
After Fang Jin came back, before he could commit suicide, the emperor sent a document saying: The emperor asked the prime minister: You have the ambition of Confucius and the courage of Meng Ben. I am kind-hearted and united with you, hoping to achieve something.
It's just that in the ten years since you took the throne, disasters have struck. The people have suffered from starvation, drowned by diseases and plagues, the latch of the door has lost itself, the country has lost its guards, and there are many thieves.
The officials and the people were cruel and brutal, beating and killing good people, and the number of cases tried and decided every year was more than before.
Writing letters to each other, talking to each other on the road, forming cliques with evil intentions, concealing things from each other, all losing loyalty, the ministers being restless and jealous of each other, where does the responsibility for these mistakes lie?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
观君之治，无欲辅朕富民便安元元之念。
间者郡国谷虽颇熟，百姓不足者尚众，前去城郭，未能尽还，夙夜未尝忘焉。
朕惟往时之用，与今一也，百僚用度各有数。
君有量多少，一听群下言，用度不足，奏请一切增赋，税城郭堧及园田，过更，算马牛羊，增益盐铁，变更无常。
朕既不明，随奏许可，后议者以为不便，制诏下君，君云卖酒醪。
后请止，未尽月复奏议令卖酒醪。
朕诚怪君，何持容容之计，无忠固意，将何以辅朕帅道群下？
而欲久蒙显尊之位，岂不难哉！
传曰： 高而不危，所以长守贵也。
欲退君位，尚未忍。
君其孰念详计，塞绝奸原，忧国如家，务便百姓以辅朕。
朕既已改，君其自思，强食慎职。
使尚书令赐君上尊酒十石，养牛一，君审外焉。
translation: 
Observing your governance, you have no good intentions to help me make the people prosperous and stable.
Although the food harvest in the county has been mostly good recently, there is still a lot of food for the people. Those who went to guard the city have not been able to return. I have never forgotten this sooner or later.
I hope that the money used in the past can be the same as it is now, and that people have their own fixed expenses.
You are not balanced, but you listen to the advice of your subordinates. If the money is not enough, you petition for an expeditious increase in taxes. You levy taxes on cities and surrounding areas, use money as a substitute for labor, tax on horses, cattle, and sheep, and increase taxes on salt and iron. There is no common sense in the changes.
Since I don't know clearly, I agree to implement it according to the above memorial. Later, the reviewers thought it was inconvenient and the edict was conveyed to you. You said that you were selling distiller's grains, but later you requested to stop.
Less than a month later, you submitted another petition to sell the distiller's grains.
I really wonder why you always follow the popular strategy instead of having a loyal and firm mind. How can you assist me in commanding my subordinates?
And if you want to occupy a prominent and noble position for a long time, isn't it difficult?
The Sutra says: Being in a high position without danger is the way to maintain your dignity for a long time.
I want to remove you from your official position, but I can't bear it.
You must carefully consider careful strategies, eliminate the source of evil, worry about the country as much as you worry about your family, and devote yourself to stabilizing the people to assist me.
Since I have repented, you should also reflect on yourself, eat hard and do your duty with all your heart.
I will send the Minister to reward you with ten stones of good wine and an ox. Please consider it carefully.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
方进即日自杀。
上秘之，遣九卿册赠以丞相、高陵侯印绶，赐乘舆秘器，少府供张，柱槛皆衣素。
天子亲临吊者数至，礼赐异于它相故事。
谥曰恭侯。长子宣嗣。
宣字少伯，亦明经笃行，君子人也。
及方进在，为关都尉、南郡太守。
少子曰义。
义字文仲，少以父任为郎，稍迁诸曹，年二十出为南阳都尉。
宛令刘立与曲阳侯为婚，又素著名州郡，轻义年少。
义行太守事，行县至宛，丞相史在传舍。
立持酒肴谒丞相史，对饮未讫，会义亦往，外吏白都尉方至，立语言身若。
须臾义至，内谒径入，立乃走下。
translation: 
Fang Jin committed suicide that day.
The emperor concealed the letter and sent Jiuqing to give Fang Jin the seal and ribbon of Prime Minister Gaolinghou. He also rewarded Fang Jin with a vehicle and a coffin. He set up offerings in the young mansion and wrapped the pillars and thresholds with white cloth.
The emperor went to express condolences in person many times, and the gifts were different from the old practice of other prime ministers.
The emperor gave Fang Jinmi the title of Gonghou, and Fang Jin's eldest son Zhai Xuan inherited his position.
Zhai Xuan, also known as Tai Bo, was also proficient in Confucian classics and behaved honourably. He was a gentleman.
When Fang Jin was still alive, he served as the captain of Guandu and the prefect of Nanjun.
In the name of Zuo Jin's youngest son.
Yi Zhan, whose courtesy name is Sai Shen, was appointed as a minister when he was young because of his father's relationship. He was gradually promoted to Zhucao, and when he was twenty years old, he was moved to the post of Zhimo Duwei.
Wo Xing ordered Xingli to marry the Marquis of Quyang, who had always been well-known in the prefectures and counties, and despised Xingdanzhan's youth.
Mo Yizhan acted as the prefect and inspected the counties and went to Qian. Prime Minister Shi rested and stayed at Chuanshe.
Liu Li paid homage to Prime Minister Shi with wine and food. Halfway through the drink, it happened that Zhai Yi went to pass on his family. The foreign officials reported the arrival of the captain, but Liu Li's conversation remained the same as before.
After a while, Zhai Yi arrived, and Tong walked in alone, but Liu Li stayed away.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
义既还，大怒，阳以他事召立至，以主守盗十金，贼杀不辜，部掾夏恢等收缚立，传送邓狱。
恢亦以宛大县，恐见篡夺，白义可因随后行县送邓。
义曰： 欲令都尉自送，则如勿收邪？
载环宛市乃送，吏民不敢动，威震南阳。
立家轻骑驰从武关入语曲阳侯，曲阳侯白成帝，帝以问丞相。
方进遣吏敕义出宛令。
宛令已出，吏还白状。
方进曰： 小儿未知为吏也，其意以为入狱当辄死矣。
后义坐法免，起家而为弘农太守，迁河内太守、青州牧。
所居著名，有父风烈。徙为东郡太守。
数岁，平帝崩，王莽居摄，义心恶之，乃谓姊子上蔡陈丰曰： 新都侯摄天子位，号令天下，故择宗室幼稚者以为孺子，依托周公辅成王之义，且以观望，必代汉家，其渐可见。
translation: 
After Zhai Yi came back, he was furious and pretended to summon Liu Li for other reasons. Because he was the guard, he stole ten pounds of gold and killed innocent people. He sent the eunuch Xia Hui and others to tie up Liu Li and transfer him to Deng's prison.
Because Wan was a large county, Xia Hui was worried about being usurped and imprisoned. He reported it to Zhai Yi so that he could personally transfer Liu Li to Deng during his subsequent inspection of the county.
Zhai Yi said: If you want me to escort him personally, then it is better not to admit him!
He took Liu Li in a prison car and paraded around Wan City before sending him away. The officials and the people did not dare to do anything, and Zhai Yi was so powerful in Nanyang.
Liu Li's family sent light and fast cavalry from Wuguan to inform Marquis Quyang. Marquis Quyang reported to Emperor Cheng, who asked the Prime Minister about this.
Fang Jin sent officials to order Zhai Yi to release Liu Li, the county magistrate of Wan.
After Liu Li was released from prison, the officials came back to report the situation.
Fang Jin said: "This kid doesn't know how to be an official. He thinks that as long as he goes to jail, he will be sentenced to death."
Later, Zhai Yi was dismissed from his post for breaking the law. He was appointed from his home as the prefect of Hongnong, and then moved to the post of prefect of Hanoi and pastor of Qingzhou.
The official position he held was very prestigious, and he had the style of his father. He was promoted to the governor of Dongjun.
A few years later, Emperor Ping passed away and Wang Mang temporarily became emperor. Zhai Yi felt disgusted with him, so he told his sister's son, Chen Feng, who was in Cai Cai: "The Marquis of Xindu temporarily occupied the position of emperor and commanded the world. He deliberately chose the royal family to treat the younger ones as children. In the name of assisting Zhou Gong to become king, Zhai Yi temporarily tested the people of the world. He will definitely replace the Han family. Gradually, his thoughts can be seen clearly."


Chunk 14: 
original: 
方今宗室衰弱，外无强蕃，天下倾首服从，莫能亢扞国难。
吾幸得备宰相子，身守大郡，父子受汉厚恩，义当为国讨贼，以安社稷。
欲举兵西诛不当摄者，选宗室子孙辅而立之。
设令时命不成，死国埋名，犹可以不渐于先帝。
今欲发之，乃肯从我乎？
丰年十八，勇壮，许诺。
义遂与东郡都尉刘宇、严乡侯刘信、信弟武平侯刘璜结谋。
及车郡王孙庆素有勇略，以明兵法，征在京师，义乃诈移书以重罪传逮庆。
于是以九月都试日斩观令，因勒其车骑材官士，募郡中勇敢，部署将帅。
严乡侯信者，东平王云子也。
云诛死，信兄开明嗣为王，薨，无子，而信子匡复立为王，故义举兵并东平，立信为天子。
translation: 
Now the royal family is weak, there is no powerful vassal state externally, the whole world bows its head and obeys, and there is no one who can defend the country and save the country from disaster.
I am fortunate to be the son of the prime minister and personally guard the county. Both father and son have been deeply benefactored by the Han Dynasty. Morally, they should fight against the enemies of the country and stabilize the country.
I want to lead the army to the west to kill those who should not take the throne, and select the descendants of the royal family to assist him in ascending the throne.
If you have bad luck and fail to succeed, and you die for your country to gain fame, you can still not feel ashamed in front of the late emperor.
I want to raise an army now, will you follow me?
Chen Feng was eighteen years old and full of courage, so he agreed to Zhai Yi.
Zhai Yi then formed an alliance with Liu Yu, the captain of Shujun, Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, and Liu Huang, the Marquis of Wuping, Liu Xin's younger brother.
When Sun Qing, the king of Dongjun, was summoned to the capital because he had always been brave in strategy and knew the art of war, Zhai Yi forged a document and issued an order to arrest Wang Sun Qing in the name of a serious crime.
Therefore, on the day of the examination in September, he killed the magistrate of Guan, commanded the magistrate's cavalry and infantry, recruited brave people in the county, and arranged generals.
Liu Xin, Marquis of Yanxiang, was the son of Wang Yun of Dongping.
Liu Yun was killed, and Liu Xin's brother Kaiming succeeded him as king. Kaiming died without a son, and Liu Kuang, Liu Xin's son, became king again. Therefore, Zhai Yi led the army to annex Ding Dongping and made Liu Xin the emperor.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
义自号大司马柱天大将军，以东平王傅苏隆为丞相，中尉皋丹为御史大夫，移檄郡国，言莽鸩杀孝平皇帝，矫摄尊号，今天子已立，共行天罚。
郡国皆震，比至山阳，众十余万。
莽闻之，大惧，乃拜其党亲轻车将军成武侯孙建为奋武将军，光禄勋成都侯王邑为虎牙将军，明义侯王骏为强弩将军，春王城门校尉王况为震威将军，宗伯忠孝侯刘宏为奋冲将军，中少府建威侯王昌为中坚将军，中郎将震羌侯窦兄为奋威将军，凡七人，自择除关西人为校尉军吏，将关东甲卒，发奔命以击义焉。
复以太仆武让为积弩将军屯函谷关，将作大匠蒙乡侯逯并为横野将军屯武关，羲和红休侯刘歆为扬武将军屯宛，太保后丞丞阳侯甄邯为大将军屯霸上，常乡侯王惲为车骑将军屯平乐馆，骑都尉王晏为建威将军屯城北，城门校尉赵恢为城门将军，皆勒兵自奋。
莽日抱孺子会群臣而称曰： 昔成王幼，周公摄政，而管、蔡挟禄父以畔，今翟义亦挟刘信而作乱。
translation: 
Zhai Yi proclaimed himself Great General Sima Zhutian, and appointed Su Long, the teacher of King Ping of Cambodia, as prime minister, and Lieutenant Gao Dan as imperial censor. He sent documents to various counties and counties, saying that Wang Mang had killed the filial emperor with poisonous wine, and pretended to adopt the title of emperor. Now that Liu Xin had ascended the throne, he ordered all counties to jointly carry out God's punishment for Wang Mang.
The whole country was shocked. When Zhai Yi's army arrived in Shanyang, it numbered more than 100,000 people.
When Wang Mang heard about this incident, he was very alarmed. He named his best friend Qingche General Chengwu Hou Sun Jian as Fenwu General, Guangluxun Chengdu Hou Wangyi as Huya General, Mingyi Hou Wang Jun as Strong Crossbow General, Chun Wangcheng Gate School Captain Wang Kuang as Zhenwei General, Zong Bo Zhongxiao. Hou Liuhong is the Fenchong general, Zhongshaofu Jianwei Hou Wangchang is the backbone general, Zhonglang General Zhenqiang Hou Dou is the Fenwei general, a total of seven people. They choose to appoint Guanxi people as school captains and military officials, lead the soldiers in Guandong, and mobilize emergency troops to fight against Zhai Yi.
Wang Mang also appointed Wu Rang, his imperial servant, as General Jinu to station at Hangu Pass. He appointed Hou Lu of Mengxiang, a great craftsman, and General of Hengye to station at Wuguan. Liu Xin, the Marquis of Hongxiu in Xihe, appointed General Yangwu to station in Wan. Zhen Han was appointed as the general to garrison Bashang, Changxiang Hou Wangpan was appointed as the chariot and cavalry general to garrison at Pingle Hall, the cavalry captain Wang Yan was appointed as the general Jianwei to garrison in the north of the city, and the city gate captain Tong Hui was appointed as the city gate general. They all led the troops to defend Baixing.
Wang Mang held his baby in his arms and met with the ministers every day and claimed: In the past, when King Cheng was young, the Duke of Zhou was regent, and Guan Cai kidnapped Lu Fu to rebel. Today Zhai Yi also kidnapped Liu Xin to rebel.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
自古大圣犹惧此，况臣莽之斗筲！
群臣皆曰： 不遭此变，不章圣德。
莽于是依《周书》作《大诰》，曰：
惟居摄二年十月甲子，摄皇帝若曰：大诰道诸侯王、三公、列侯于汝卿、大夫、元士御事。
不吊，天降丧于赵、傅、丁、董。
洪惟我幼冲孺子，当承继嗣无疆大历服事，予未遭其明哲能道民于安，况其能往知天命！
熙！我念孺子，若涉渊水，予惟往求朕所济度，奔走以傅近奉承高皇帝所受命，予岂敢自比于前人乎！
天降威明，用宁帝室，遗我居摄宝龟。
太皇太后以丹石之符，乃绍天明意，诏予即命居摄践祚，如周公故事。
反虏故东郡太守翟义擅兴师动众，曰 有大难于西土，西土人亦不靖。
于是动严乡侯信，诞敢犯祖乱宗之序。
天降威遗我宝龟，固知我国有呰灾，使民不安，是天反复右我汉国也。
translation: 
Saints have been worried about this since ancient times, not to mention that I, Wang Mang, am short-sighted!
All the ministers said: If you don't encounter this change, you won't be able to show your holiness.
Wang Mang therefore imitated the "Book of Zhou" and wrote the "Da Gao", saying:
In Jiazi, the tenth month of the second year of residence, Emperor She said: "Use the Great Dao to inform the princes, kings, three princes, princes, Ruqing officials, and Yuanshi imperial officials."
God showed no mercy, and descended to bring disaster to Tang, Fu, Ding, and Dong.
I thought deeply that the young boy should inherit the Mo family's unfinished calendar service. I didn't meet those wise people to help me guide the people to live a happy life, let alone know the destiny! well!
I think of the boy, if he crosses the deep pool, I hope to find a way to help him cross, and I will try my best to get closer to accept the responsibility granted by Emperor Gao. How can I dare to compare myself with Duke Zhou!
A powerful and powerful spirit descended from heaven to calm the Han Dynasty and let me take charge of the government.
Because of the auspicious omen of Chishi, the Empress Dowager accepted the divine decree from heaven and asked me to take office in Shao, just like Zhou Gong's old practice.
Zhai Yi, the former governor of Dongjun who rebelled against the enemy, raised troops and mobilized the people without authorization, saying that there was a great disaster in the capital and that the people in the capital were also uneasy.
So he incited Hou Xin of Yanxiang to boldly offend his ancestors and disrupt the order established by his ancestors.
God has given me the precious turtle in his power. He already knew that this disaster existed in our country and made the people uneasy. It is God who has repeatedly blessed our country of Han.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
粤其闻日，宗室之俟有四百人，民献仪九万夫，予敬以终于此谋继嗣图功。
我有大事，休，予卜并吉，故我出大将告郡太守、诸侯相、令、长曰： 予得吉卜，予惟以汝于伐东郡严乡逋播臣。
尔国君或者无不反曰： 难大，民亦不静，亦惟在帝官诸侯宗室，于小子族父，敬不可征。
帝不违卜，故予为冲人长思厥难曰： 呜呼！
义、信所犯，诚动鳏寡，哀哉！
予遭天役遗，大解难于予身，以为孺子，不身自恤。
予义彼国君泉陵侯上书曰： 成王幼弱，周公践天子位以治天下，六年，朝诸侯于明堂，制礼乐，班度量，而天下大服。
太皇太后承顺天心，成居摄之义。
皇太子为孝平皇帝子，年在襁褓，宜且为子，知为人子道，令皇太后得加慈母恩。
畜养成就，加元服，然后复子明辟。
熙！为我孺子之故，予惟赵、傅、丁、董之乱，遏绝继嗣，变剥適、庶，危乱汉国，以成三厄，队极厥命。
呜呼！害其可不旅力同心戒之哉！
translation: 
When news of Zhai Yi's rebellion was heard in the court, it was said that there were 400 outstanding men in the Liu clan and 90,000 virtuous people among the people. I will work with these people to plan state affairs, and I will eventually achieve great success.
There will be military affairs in the country, and the heavens show good signs, and I also divined good omens, so I sent a general to tell the prefect of the county, the princes, ministers, ministers, and chiefs: I got the auspicious divination, and I hope to join you in the crusade against the scattered ministers in Yanxiang, Cambodia.
You, the monarchs of the counties, may object and say: The harm has been great, and the people cannot be quiet. Liu Xin is also a relative of the princes in the imperial palace and the uncle of the boy. He should be respected and not punished.
Being an emperor does not violate the divination of destiny, so I thought deeply about the suffering of the young child and said: Alas!
The harm caused by Zhai Yi and Liu Xin has really alarmed people who have no wives and no husbands. How pitiful!
I accepted the service of the Han family that God left for me, and asked me to personally relieve the suffering. Therefore, I attacked Zhai Yi to eliminate the chaos for the children, not because I was worried about myself.
I agree with the letter written by Marquis Quanling, the king of the country, who said: King Cheng was young and frail, and Duke Zhou was in the position of the emperor to govern the world. Within six years, he met with the princes in the Mingtang, formulated rituals and music, promulgated weights and measures, and the world was in great service.
The Empress Dowager obeyed the will of God and agreed to temporarily occupy the throne.
The Crown Prince is the son of Emperor Xiaoping. He is still in his infancy. Since he is the son of a human being, he should know the principles of being a human son so that the Empress Dowager can exert the kindness of a loving mother.
Raise him up, crown him, and then give him the position of wise king. Alas!
For the sake of my son, I think of the chaos of Tsang, Fu, Ding, and Dong, which cut off the descendants of the Han Dynasty, messed up the distinction between concubines and concubines, harmed and disrupted the Han Dynasty, caused many disasters, and almost ended the Han Dynasty's destiny. well!
How can we not work together to prevent this from happening again!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
予不敢僣上帝命。
天休于安帝室，兴我汉国，惟卜用克绥受兹命。
今天其相民，况亦惟卜用！
太皇太后肇有元城沙鹿之右，阴精女主圣明之祥，配元生成，以兴我天下之符，遂获西王母之应，神灵之征，以祐我帝室，以安我大宗，以绍我后嗣，以继我汉功。
厥害適统不宗元绪者，辟不违亲，辜不避戚。
夫岂不爱？
亦唯帝室。
是以广立王侯，并建曾玄，俾屏我京师，绥抚宇内；博征儒生，讲道于廷，论序乖缪，制礼作乐，同律度量，混一风俗；正天地之位，昭郊宗之礼，定五畤庙祧，咸秩亡文；建灵台，立明堂，设辟雍，张太学，尊中宗、高宗之号。
昔我高宗崇德建武，克绥西域，以受白虎威胜之瑞，天地判合，乾、坤序德。
太皇太后临政，有龟、龙、麟、凤之应，五德嘉符，相因而备。
河图、洛书远自昆仑，出于重野。
古谶著言，肆今享实。
translation: 
I dare not go against God's destiny.
God regards the peace of the emperor as a good thing and revitalizes our country of Han, so I can do divination as auspiciousness and accept this task with peace of mind.
Now that God is helping his people, not to mention it is also auspicious to use divination?
At first, the Empress Dowager had the help of Yuancheng Shalu, the auspiciousness of Shengming, the heroine of Yinjing, and the Emperor Yuan gave birth to an emperor, which brought about the auspicious omen of the world. Therefore, she received the inspiration of the Queen Mother of the West and the proof of the divine bag to protect my royal family, stabilize my eldest son, reproduce my descendants, and continue the achievements of my Han Dynasty.
Those who are harmful to the country's orthodoxy and disrespectful of direct heirs should be punished quickly and not avoid relatives.
Don't I love these people?
Just for the sake of the royal family.
Therefore, I enfeoffed the princes extensively and enfeoffed great-grandsons and great-grandsons together to protect our capital and pacify the country. I also recruited Confucian scholars extensively to give lectures in the court, compile and correct erroneous and improper doctrines, formulate rituals and music, unify weights and measures, and unify customs. Customs; straightening the position of heaven and earth, showing the etiquette of sacrifice, stabilizing the five temples, and paying homage to the abandoned ancestral temples without written records; building spiritual platforms, establishing Mingtang, opening universities, and honoring the names of Zhongzong and Gaozong.
In the past, I, Emperor Gaozong, advocated virtue and established a military administration, and defeated and pacified the Western Regions. Therefore, I received the auspicious omen of the White Tiger's mighty victory, and we were married to the Queen Mother according to the righteousness of husband and wife in the universe of heaven and earth.
After the Empress Dowager came to power, the auspiciousness of tortoises, dragons, linfeng and the five virtues were inherited from each other.
"He Tu" comes from the distant Kunlun, and "Luo Shu" comes from Chongbi.
Prophecies were written down by prophets in ancient times, so they are confirmed today.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
此乃皇天上帝所以安我帝室，俾我成就洪烈也。
呜呼！天明威辅汉始而大大矣。
尔有惟旧人泉陵侯之言，尔不克远省，尔岂知太皇太后若此勤哉！
天毖劳我成功所，予不敢不极卒安皇帝之所图事。
肆予告我诸侯王公、列侯、卿、大夫、元士御事：天辅诚辞，天其累我以民，予害敢不于祖宗安人图功所终？
天亦惟劳我民，若有疾，予害敢不于祖宗所受休辅？
予闻孝子善继人之意，忠臣善成人之事。
予思若考作室，厥子堂而构之；厥父菑，厥子播而获之。
予害敢不于身抚祖宗之所受大命？
若祖宗乃有效汤、武伐厥子，民长其劝弗救。
呜呼肆哉！
诸侯王公、列侯、卿、大夫、元士御事，其勉助国道明！亦惟宗室之俊，民之表仪，迪知上帝命。
粤天辅诚，尔不得易定！
况今天降定于汉国，惟大艰人翟义、刘信大逆，欲相伐于厥室，岂亦知命之不易乎？
予永念曰天惟丧翟义、刘信，若啬夫，予害敢不终予亩？
天亦惟休于祖宗，予害其极卜，害敢不于从？
率宁人有旨疆土，况今卜并吉！
故予大以尔东征，命不僣差，卜陈惟若此。
translation: 
This is the reason why God wants to stabilize my royal family and enable me to achieve great things. well!
The difficulties faced by God in showing its majesty to help the Han Dynasty became even greater.
You should think about the words of your old friend Quanlinghou. If you can't reflect on the past carefully, how can you know that the Empress Dowager and the Queen Mother worked so hard?
God is concerned about the way our Han Dynasty will succeed, so I dare not fail to do my best to complete the achievements of my ancestors and stabilize the affairs planned by the royal family.
I stated the truth clearly to the princes, princes, ministers, officials, Yuanshi and Yuanshi: God helps those who speak sincerely. God has entrusted the people to me. How can I not try my best to fulfill the merits of my ancestors to appease the people?
God also comforts my people. If they suffer, how can I not help them by obeying the wishes of my ancestors and letting them rest?
I heard that a filial son is good at understanding his father's thoughts, and a loyal minister is good at adult beauty.
I think if the father wants to build a house, then the son should pound the soil and frame the wood outside; if the father wants to plow the land, the son should sow and harvest.
How dare I not personally accept the great responsibility of my ancestors to stabilize the people?
Just like the ancestors followed Tang and Wu's example in conquering the traitors, they put justice first and did not follow the law for selfish reasons.
You have to do your best!
The princes, princes, ministers, officials, Yuanshi, and imperial officials should try their best to assist the country in prospering the Han Dynasty. I also hope that you, the talents of the clan and the example of the people, will obey the way and know the destiny.
God helps those who are loyal, you cannot change God's destiny!
What's more, now that heaven is about to descend and give stability to the Han Kingdom, only the evil men Zhai Yi and Liu Xin are rebellious and want to kill each other and their families. Do they also know that destiny cannot be changed?
I thought for a long time: God wants Zhai Yi and Liu Xin to die just like a farmer erasing weeds. How dare I not complete my task of farming?
God also praises the ancestors. How could I not complete the divination? How could Yi not obey the will of the divination?
I want to follow the legacy of my ancestors and work to stabilize the people and the country, not to mention that it is a good omen now!
So I want to lead you to conquer, and don't dare to make any mistakes. This is the case with the divination display.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
乃遣大夫桓谭等班行谕告当反立孺子之意。
还，封谭为明告里附城。
诸将东至陈留菑，与义会战，破之，斩刘璜首。
莽大喜，复下诏曰：
太皇太后遭家不造，国统三绝，绝辄复续，恩莫厚焉，信莫立焉。
孝平皇帝短命蚤崩，幼嗣孺冲，诏予居摄。
予承明诏，奉社稷之任，持大宗之重，养六尺之托，受天下之寄，战战兢兢，不敢安息。
伏念太皇太后惟经艺分析，王道离散，汉家制作之业独未成就，故博征儒士，大兴典制，备物致用，立功成器，以为天下利。
王道粲然，基业既著，千载之废，百世之遗，于今乃成，道德庶几于唐、虞，功烈比齐于殷、周。
translation: 
So Wang Mang sent the doctor Huan Tan and others to issue a notice stating his intention to restore the throne to Ruzi.
After Huan Tan came back, Wang Mang appointed him as an official to the nearby city.
The generals went east to Chenliuzhuo, fought with Zhai Yi, defeated Zhai Yi, and cut off Liu Huang's head.
Wang Mang was very happy and went down to Shao again and said:
The Empress Dowager encountered family misfortune. Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Emperor Ping all had no sons. Now the line of succession has been extended. No kindness can be deeper than this, and no faith can be more firm than this.
Emperor Xiaoping was short-lived and died early. His youngest son was too young, so he issued an edict to allow me to temporarily occupy the throne.
I accepted the wise edict, shouldered the responsibilities of the country, took charge of the important task of educating my legitimate son, accepted the entrustment of raising him, and shouldered the high expectations of the people in the world. I was afraid and cautious, and did not dare to enjoy ease.
I thought that the Empress Dowager was thinking about the lost scriptures, the decline of kingship, and the unfinished work of Han Dynasty writings, so I recruited Confucian scholars extensively, established laws and regulations, enriched things for use, and made exquisite utensils to provide convenience to the people of the world.
The royal way proves that the foundation has been established. What has been abandoned for thousands of years and lost in hundreds of generations has finally been completed today. The morals are almost the same as those of Tang and Yu, and the achievements can be compared with those of Yin and Zhou.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
今翟义、刘信等谋反大逆，流言惑众，欲以篡位，贼害我孺子，罪深于管、蔡，恶甚于禽兽。
信父故东平王云，不孝不谨，亲毒杀其父思王，名曰巨鼠，后云竟坐大逆诛死。
义父故丞相方进，险波阴贼，兄宣静言令色，外巧内嫉，所杀乡邑汝南者数十人。
今积恶二家，迷惑相得，此时命当殄。天所灭也。
义始发兵，上书言宇、信等与东平相辅谋反，执捕械系，欲以威民，先自相被以反逆大恶，转相捕械，此其破殄之明证也。
已捕斩断信二子穀乡侯章、德广侯鲔，义母练、兄宣、亲属二十四人皆磔暴于长安都市四通之衢。
当其斩时，观者重叠，天气和清，可谓当矣。
命遣大将军共行皇天之罚，讨诲内之仇，功效著焉，予甚嘉之。
translation: 
Now Zhai Yi, Liu Xin and others are committing rebellion and committing treason, spreading rumors to confuse the people, hoping to usurp the throne and kill my son. Their crimes are greater than Guan Cai, and their ferocity is more ferocious than animals.
Liu Xin's father, the former Dongping Wang Yun, was unfilial and disrespectful. He personally poisoned his father, King Si, and was called a big rat. Later, Liu Yun was eventually killed for committing treason.
Zhai Yi's father, the former Prime Minister Fang Jin, was a sinister, flattering and vicious man. His brother Xuan was good at pleasing people with his pleasant words and flattery. He was kind on the outside but jealous on the inside. He killed more than ten people in the township of Runan.
These two families, who have committed many evil deeds, confuse the people of the world and want to be in harmony with each other. This is what the time and destiny should destroy, and what God wants to eliminate.
When Zhai Yigang first launched his army, he wrote a letter saying that Yu, Xin and others had conspired with King Shuping Xiangfu to rebel. He arrested them and put them in shackles and handcuffs. In order to intimidate the masses, they first stigmatized each other for rebellion, and then arrested each other and put weapons on them. This was clear evidence that they would be defeated and exterminated.
Liu Xin's two sons, Guxiang Hou Zhang and Deguang Hou Tuna, have been arrested and executed. Zhai Yi's mother Lian, brother Zhai Xuan, and 24 relatives have also laid out their corpses in the streets of Chang'an.
When they were killed, there were many people watching and the weather was clear, which can be said to be in accordance with God's will.
The generals dispatched by destiny respectfully exercised heaven's punishment and attacked the enemies of the country. The results were very obvious and I am very satisfied.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
《司马法》不云乎？ 赏不逾时 。
欲民速睹为善之利也。
今先封车骑都尉孙贤等五十五人皆为列侯，户邑之数别下。
遣使者持黄金印、赤绂縌、朱轮车，即军中拜授。
因大赦天下。
于是吏士精锐遂功围义于圉城，破之，义与刘信弃军庸亡。
至固始界中捕得义，尸磔陈都市。
卒不得信。
初，三辅闻翟义起，自茂陵以西至氵幵二十三县盗贼并发，赵明、霍鸿等自称将军，攻烧官寺，杀右辅都尉及斄令，劫略吏民，众十余万，火见未央宫前殿。
莽昼夜抱孺子祷宗庙。
复拜卫尉王级为虎贲将军，大鸿胪望乡侯阎迁为折冲将军，与甄邯、王晏西击赵明等。
正月，虎牙将军王邑等自关东还，便引兵西。
translation: 
Didn't "Sima Law" say it? Rewards should not be given beyond their due time.
This is to let everyone see the benefits of being kind as early as possible.
Now, fifty-five people including Sun Xian, the captain of chariots and cavalry, are enfeoffed as marquises, and the number of households and towns to be enfeoffed will be announced later.
Send envoys with gold seals, red ribbons, and red chariots to the army to confer duties.
Therefore, the world is amnesty.
At this time, the elite soldiers attacked and surrounded Zhai Yi in Yucheng and broke through the city. Zhai Yi and Liu Xin abandoned the army and escaped.
When they arrived at the border of Gushi, Wang Mang's army captured Zhai Yi and wrapped his body in the city for public display.
But Liu Xin was not caught in the end.
At first, Sanfu heard that Zhai Yi had raised an army, and thieves from twenty-three counties from the west of Maoling to Fen also rebelled. Ming, Huo Hong and others claimed to be generals, attacked and burned down the government, killed the captain of Youfu and the county magistrate of Ya, and looted and looted the officials and people, numbering more than 100,000. The fire burned all the way to the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
Wang Mang held the baby in his arms and prayed in the ancestral temple from morning to night.
Later, Wang Mang was appointed as a guard at the king level and was appointed General Huben. Yan Qian, Marquis of Dahonglu Wangxiang, was appointed General Zhechong. Together with Zhen Han and Wang Yan, he went west to attack Zhao Ming and others.
In the first month of the first month, Huya General Wang Yi and others returned from Guandong and led the army to conquer the west.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
强弩将军王骏以无功免，扬武将军刘歆归故官。
复以邑弟侍中王奇为扬武将军，城门将军赵恢为强弩将军，中郎将李棽为厌难将军，复将兵西。
二月，明等殄灭，诸县悉平，还师振旅。
莽乃置酒白虎殿，劳飨将帅，大封拜。
先是，益州蛮夷及金城塞外羌反畔，时州郡击破之。
莽乃并隶，以小大为差，封侯、伯、子、男凡三百九十五人，曰 皆以奋怒，东指西击，羌寇蛮盗，反虏逆贼，不得旋踵，应时殄灭，天下咸服 之功封云。
莽于是自谓大得天人之助，至其年十二月，遂即真矣。
初，义所收宛令刘立闻义举兵，上书愿备军吏为国讨贼，内报私怨。
莽擢立为陈留太守，封明德侯。
translation: 
Wang Jun, the strong crossbow general, was dismissed from his post because he had not performed meritorious service, and Liu Xin, the Yangwu general, was restored to his old post.
Wang Mang also appointed Wang Yi's younger brother, Shizhong Wang Qi, as General Yangwu, General Chengmen Tso Hui as General Qiannu, and General Li Qin as General Weaning, and led the army to the west again.
In February, Tong Ming and others were wiped out, and all counties were pacified. Wang Mang's army returned to the court in victory.
Wang Mang then held a banquet in the White Tiger Palace, rewarded the general, and awarded him many titles.
Previously, the barbarians in Yizhou and the Qiang people outside the Jincheng Wall rebelled, and the army of the prefecture and county defeated them.
Wang Mang then recorded them all together. According to the merits, a total of 395 Hou Bozi men were enfeoffed. It was said that they were all enfeoffed because they were all out of anger. They conquered the west, Qiang bandits, and rebels against the enemy. In a moment, they were eliminated in time, and everyone in the world was convinced by their merits.
Wang Mang therefore believed that he had received great help from heaven and gods, and in December of that year, he usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor.
At first, Liu Li, the county magistrate of Wan who was arrested by Zhai Yi, heard that Zhai Yi had launched a mutiny, so he wrote a letter saying that he was willing to serve as a military official to fight against the rebellious ministers for the country. In fact, he wanted to avenge his personal grievances.
Wang Mang promoted Liu Li to be the prefect of Chenliu and granted him the title of Marquis of Mingde.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
始，义兄宣居长安，先义未发，家数有怪，夜闻哭声，听之不知所在。
宣教授诸生满堂，有狗从外入，啮其中庭群雁数十，比惊救之，已皆断头。
狗走出门，求不知处。
宣大恶之，谓后母曰： 东郡太守文仲素俶傥，今数有恶怪，恐有妄为而大祸至也。
大夫人可归，为弃去宣家者以避害。
母不肯去，后数月败。
莽尽坏义第宅，污池之。
发父方进及先祖冢在汝南者，烧其棺柩，夷灭三族，诛及种嗣，至皆同坑，以棘五毒并葬之。
而下诏曰： 盖闻古者伐不敬，取其鲸鲵筑武军，封以为大戮，于是乎有京观以惩淫慝。
translation: 
At first, Zhai Yi's elder brother Zhai Xuan lived in Chang'an. Before Zhai Yi started his army, strange phenomena often occurred in Zhai Xuan's house. He heard people crying at night, but if he listened carefully, he could not figure out where the sound came from.
Zhai Xuan was teaching a class of students in a room. A dog came in from outside and bit a dozen geese wrapped in Zhai Xuan's yard. When Zhai Xuan woke up and went to save them, they had all been bitten off by the dog.
The dog ran out of the door and looked for it everywhere but didn't know where it was.
Zhai Xuan was very unhappy and said to his stepmother: Wen Zhong, the governor of Cambodia, has always done things recklessly without considering the consequences. Now he often does weird and evil things. I am afraid that he has done something rash and a disaster is about to happen.
You can go back to your natal family and seclude yourself from Zhai Xuan's family to escape the disaster.
The stepmother refused to leave, and a few months later she was in trouble.
Wang Mang destroyed all Zhai Yi's houses and made them into ponds to store water.
They dug up the graves of Zhai Yi's father Zhai Fangjin and his ancestors in Runan, burned their coffins, killed all the relatives of Zhai Yi's three clans, including the descendants of clan Xiang, put them all into a pit, planted five poisonous grasses and buried them together.
Wang Mang went down to Shao again and said: It is said that in ancient times, when fighting against disrespectful people, those who were especially vicious were killed and piled up to commend military merits.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
乃者反虏刘信、翟义悖逆作乱于东，而芒竹群盗赵明、霍鸿造逆西土，遣武将征讨，咸伏其辜。
惟信、义等始发自濮阳，结奸无盐，殄灭于圉。
赵明依阻槐里环堤，霍鸿负倚盩厔芒竹，咸用破碎，亡有余类。
其取反虏逆贼之鲸鲵，聚之通路之旁，濮阳、无盐、圉、槐里、盩厔凡五所，各方六丈，高六尺，筑为武军，封以为大戮，荐树之棘。
建表木，高丈六尺。
书曰 反虏逆贼鲸鲵 ，在所长吏常以秋循行，勿令坏败，以惩淫慝焉。
初，汝南旧有鸿隙大陂，郡以为饶，成帝时，关东数水，陂溢为害。
方进为相，与御史大夫孔光共遣掾行视，以为决去陂水，其地肥美，省堤防费而无水忧，遂奏罢之。
及翟氏灭，乡里归恶，言方进请陂下良田不得而奏罢陂云。
王莽时常枯旱，郡中追怨方进，童谣曰： 坏陂谁？
翟子威。
translation: 
Not long ago, the rebels Liu Xin and Zhai Yi rebelled in Shubu, while Zhao Ming and Huo Hong, the Mangzhu bandits, rebelled in the west. I sent military generals to attack them, and they were all acquitted.
Liu Xin, Zhai Yi and others began to send troops from Puyang, formed a traitorous alliance in Wuyan, and were finally killed in Yu.
Zhao Ming relied on the winding earth embankment in Huaili, and Huo Hong relied on the whole centimeter of bamboo. They were both defeated and could not escape.
Now the corpses of the leaders of the rebel officials were selected and gathered on one side of the road. In five places, Puyang, Wuyan, Yu, Huaili, and Lanli, they built earthen ramparts five feet square and six feet high, and enclosed them with a large number of corpses and added thorns from trees.
The wood used to mark the rise of the tree was six feet high.
It says "anti-capture killer whale squid". The chief official of Gaoqiu location should often inspect it in autumn to prevent it from being damaged or dilapidated, so as to warn evil people.
Previously, there used to be a large Hongchi pond in Runan, and the counties and counties were prosperous because of it. When he became emperor, there were many floods in Guandong, and the Hongchi water rose and caused damage.
When Fang Jin was the prime minister, he and the imperial censor Kong Guang sent a military officer to inspect the land. They thought that after the water was released from Hongxi, the land would be very fertile, saving the cost of building embankments and eliminating the risk of floods, so he proposed to abolish the embankment construction.
After the Zhai family was exterminated, the people in the village blamed Fang Jin, saying that he had asked not to build a dike in Hongxi because he had requested to be given the fertile land in Hongxi but was not allowed.
When Wang Mang was in power, there were frequent droughts in the region, and the people in the county complained about Fang Jin. The nursery rhyme said: Who is destroying the gap?
Of course it's Zhai Ziwei.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
饭我豆食羹芋魁。
反乎覆，陂当复。
谁云者？两黄鹄。
司徒掾班彪曰： 丞相方进以孤童携老母，羁旅入京师，身为儒宗，致位宰相，盛矣。
当莽之起，盖乘天威，虽有贲、育，奚益于敌？
义不量力，怀忠愤发，以陨其宗，悲夫！
translation: 
What to cook with, I only have potatoes to eat, what to use to make soup?
I only have taro roots to eat.
Things in the world are erratic, and gaps will always arise again. Who said this? Two yellow swans tell you.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: Prime Minister Fang Jin took his mother to live in the capital when he was a child. As a master of Confucian scholars, he eventually became prime minister and became very prominent.
When Wang Mang raised his troops. Probably through the power of heaven, even with the bravery of Meng Ben and Xia Yu, what help would it be to fight against the enemy?
Zhai Yi overestimated his capabilities and started an uprising out of loyalty, but ended up destroying the entire family. How sad!


