Chunk 0: 
original: 
吕太后者，高祖微时妃也，生孝惠帝、女鲁元太后。
及高祖为汉王，得定陶戚姬，爱幸，生赵隐王如意。
孝惠为人仁弱，高祖以为不类我，常欲废太子，立戚姬子如意，如意类我。
戚姬幸，常从上之关东，日夜啼泣，欲立其子代太子。
吕后年长，常留守，希见上，益疏。
如意立为赵王後，几代太子者数矣，赖大臣争之，及留侯策，太子得毋废。
吕后为人刚毅，佐高祖定天下，所诛大臣多吕后力。
吕后兄二人，皆为将。
长兄周吕侯死事，封其子吕台为郦侯，子产为交侯；次兄吕释之为建成侯。
高祖十二年四月甲辰，崩长乐宫，太子袭号为帝。
是时高祖八子：长男肥，孝惠兄也，异母，肥为齐王；馀皆孝惠弟，戚姬子如意为赵王，薄夫人子恆为代王，诸姬子子恢为梁王，子友为淮阳王，子长为淮南王，子建为燕王。
高祖弟交为楚王，兄子濞为吴王。
非刘氏功臣番君吴芮子臣为长沙王。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Lu was Gaozu's humble wife and gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and his daughter, Empress Dowager Lu Yuan.
When Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, he found Qi Ji in Dingtao. He loved her very much and gave birth to King Ruyi of Zhao Yin.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and weak, but Gaozu thought he was not like him, so he often wanted to depose the prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi, thinking that Ruyi was similar to himself.
Qi Ji was favored and often followed Emperor Gaozu to Guandong. She cried day and night and wanted to make her son the crown prince to replace the original crown prince.
Empress Lu was getting older and often stayed behind. She rarely saw Gaozu, and their relationship became increasingly estranged.
Ruyi was granted the title of Queen Zhao, and almost replaced the prince many times. Fortunately, the ministers' remonstrances and Liu Hou's strategy prevented the prince from being abolished.
Empress Lu was a strong and resolute person. She assisted Emperor Gaozu in pacifying the world and killing ministers, mostly thanks to Empress Lu.
Empress Lu had two older brothers, both of whom were generals.
The eldest brother Zhou Luhou died in the line of duty, and his sons Lu Tai were granted the title of Lihou, Lu Chan was granted the title of Jiaohou; the second brother Lu Shizhi was granted the title of Jiancheng Marquis.
On April 25, the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he died in Changle Palace. The prince inherited the title of Emperor Gaozu and succeeded him as emperor.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu had eight sons: the eldest son Liu Fei, who was the brother of Emperor Xiaohui and had a different mother than Emperor Xiaohui, was named King of Qi; the rest were younger brothers of Emperor Xiaohui. Liu Ruyi, the son of Qi Ji, was named King of Zhao, Mrs. Bo's son Liu Heng was named King of Dai, the other sons of Ji's concubines were Liu Huifeng, King of Liang, Liu Youfeng, King of Huaiyang, Liu Changfeng, King of Huainan, and Liu Jianfeng, King of Yan.
Gaozu's younger brother Liu Jiao was granted the title of King of Chu, and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu.
Wu Chen, the son of Fan Jun Wu Rui, a hero who was not a descendant of the Liu family, was granted the title of King of Changsha.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吕后最怨戚夫人及其子赵王，乃令永巷囚戚夫人，而召赵王。
使者三反，赵相建平侯周昌谓使者曰： 高帝属臣赵王，赵王年少。
窃闻太后怨戚夫人，欲召赵王并诛之，臣不敢遣王。
王且亦病，不能奉诏。
吕后大怒，乃使人召赵相。
赵相徵至长安，乃使人复召赵王。
王来，未到。
孝惠帝慈仁，知太后怒，自迎赵王霸上，与入宫，自挟与赵王起居饮食。
太后欲杀之，不得间。
孝惠元年十二月，帝晨出射。
赵王少，不能蚤起。
太后闻其独居，使人持酖饮之。
犁明，孝惠还，赵王已死。
於是乃徙淮阳王友为赵王。
夏，诏赐郦侯父追谥为令武侯。
太后遂断戚夫人手足，去眼，煇耳，饮瘖药，使居厕中，命曰 人彘 。
居数日，乃召孝惠帝观人彘。
孝惠见，问，乃知其戚夫人，乃大哭，因病，岁馀不能起。
translation: 
Empress Lu resented Madam Qi and her son King Zhao the most, so she ordered Madam Qi to be imprisoned in Yongxiang, and summoned King Zhao to the capital.
The envoy went back and forth several times. Zhao Xiang Jianpinghou Zhou Chang said to the envoy: Emperor Gao entrusted King Zhao to me. King Zhao is still young.
I heard that the Queen Mother resented Mrs. Qi and wanted to summon King Zhao to kill him together. I dare not send King Zhao away.
Moreover, King Zhao was also ill and could not go there according to the imperial edict.
Empress Lu was furious and sent someone to summon Prime Minister Zhao to the capital.
When Prime Minister Zhao was summoned to Chang'an, he sent someone to summon King Zhao again.
King Zhao came and had not yet reached the capital.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and knew that the Queen Mother was angry, so he went to Ba Shang to greet King Zhao in person, and returned to the palace with King Zhao, where he ate and lived with King Zhao.
The Queen Mother wanted to kill King Zhao, but could not find a chance.
In December of the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Xiaohui went out to hunt in the morning.
King Zhao is young and cannot get up early.
The queen mother heard that King Zhao was alone at home, so she sent someone to give him poisoned wine to drink.
When Emperor Xiaohui returned at dawn, King Zhao was already dead.
So Liu You, the king of Huaiyang, was moved to the throne of Zhao.
In the summer, an edict was issued to pursue Yi Lihou's father as Lingwuhou.
The Queen Mother cut off Mrs. Qi's hands and feet, gouged out her eyes, burned her ears with fire, gave her dumb potion, made her live in the toilet, and named her "Ren Pig".
After a few days, Emperor Xiaohui was asked to watch the pigs.
When Emperor Xiaohui saw it, he inquired and found out it was Mrs. Qi, so he burst into tears and became ill and couldn't get up for more than a year.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
使人请太后曰： 此非人所为。
臣为太后子，终不能治天下。
孝惠以此日饮为淫乐，不听政，故有病也。
二年，楚元王、齐悼惠王皆来朝。
十月，孝惠与齐王燕饮太后前，孝惠以为齐王兄，置上坐，如家人之礼。
太后怒，乃令酌两卮酖，置前，令齐王起为寿。
齐王起，孝惠亦起，取卮欲俱为寿。
太后乃恐，自起泛孝惠卮。
齐王怪之，因不敢饮，详醉去。
问，知其酖，齐王恐，自以为不得脱长安，忧。
齐内史士说王曰： 太后独有孝惠与鲁元公主。
今王有七十馀城，而公主乃食数城。
王诚以一郡上太后，为公主汤沐邑，太后必喜，王必无忧。
於是齐王乃上城阳之郡，尊公主为王太后。
吕后喜，许之。乃置酒齐邸，乐饮，罢，归齐王。
三年，方筑长安城，四年就半，五年六年城就。
诸侯来会。
十月朝贺。
七年秋八月戊寅，孝惠帝崩。
translation: 
He sent someone to see the Queen Mother and said: This is not what people do.
As the son of the Queen Mother, I have no face to govern the world.
From then on, Emperor Xiaohui drank and enjoyed himself every day and did not listen to the affairs of the court, so he became ill.
In the second year, King Yuan of Chu and King Hui of Qi both came to see him.
In October, Emperor Xiaohui and King Qi held a banquet and drank wine in front of the Queen Mother. Emperor Xiaohui believed that King Qi was his elder brother, so he placed him in the top position, just like the etiquette of ordinary people.
The Queen Mother was very angry, so she had two glasses of poisoned wine poured in front of her, and asked King Qi to get up and drink to celebrate his birthday.
King Qi stood up, and Emperor Xiaohui also stood up. He took the wine glass and wanted to celebrate the Queen Mother's birthday together.
The Queen Mother was so alarmed that she got up and poured out the wine in Emperor Xiaohui's cup.
King Qi felt strange and did not dare to drink the glass of wine. He pretended to be drunk and walked away.
When I asked later, I found out that it was poisoned wine. King Qi was very frightened, thinking that he could not escape from Chang'an, and was very worried.
The internal historian of Qi advised the King of Qi: The Queen Mother only gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.
Now you own more than seventy cities, while the princess only has a few restaurants.
If you dedicate a county to the Queen Mother, as the princess Tang Muyi, the Queen Mother will definitely be happy, and you will definitely have nothing to worry about.
So the King of Qi presented Chengyang County and respected the princess as the Queen Mother.
Queen Lu was very happy and agreed to King Qi's request. She held a banquet at King Qi's official residence and drank happily. After the banquet, she asked King Qi to return to the feudal country.
In three years, the construction of Chang'an City began. In four years, half of it was completed. In five years and six years, it was all completed.
The princes came to the capital to gather.
In October, the princes congratulated the emperor.
On August 12, in the autumn of the seventh year, Emperor Xiaohui passed away.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
发丧，太后哭，泣不下。
留侯子张辟彊为侍中，年十五，谓丞相曰： 太后独有孝惠，今崩，哭不悲，君知其解乎？
丞相曰： 何解？
辟彊曰： 帝毋壮子，太后畏君等。
君今请拜吕台、吕产、吕禄为将，将兵居南北军，及诸吕皆入宫，居中用事，如此则太后心安，君等幸得脱祸矣。
丞相乃如辟彊计。
太后说，其哭乃哀。
吕氏权由此起。
乃大赦天下。九月辛丑，葬。
太子即位为帝，谒高庙。
元年，号令一出太后。
太后称制，议欲立诸吕为王，问右丞相王陵。
王陵曰： 高帝刑白马盟曰 非刘氏而王，天下共击之 。
今王吕氏，非约也。
太后不说。
问左丞相陈平、绛侯周勃。
translation: 
During the mourning ceremony, the Queen Mother cried but did not shed any tears.
Zhang Pijiang, the son of Liuhou, who was fifteen years old at the time, was serving as a servant. He said to the prime minister: The Queen Mother only has one son, Emperor Xiaohui. Now that she has passed away, she does not cry sadly. Do you know the reason?
The prime minister said: What is the reason?
Zhang Bijiang said: The emperor has no adult son, and the queen mother is afraid of you ministers.
Now you request to appoint Lu Tai, Lu Chan, and Lu Lu as generals to command the Northern and Southern armies. Only when all the Lu family members enter the court and gain real power in the court can you ministers escape from disaster.
The prime minister followed Zhang Piqiang's plan.
The queen mother was so happy that her cries began to mourn.
Lu's power began to rise from then on.
Implement amnesty for the world. On September 5th, Emperor Xiaohui was buried.
The prince ascended the throne and became emperor, and visited the mausoleum of the great ancestor.
In the first year, all orders from the imperial court came from the Queen Mother.
The mother-in-law is exercising the authority of the emperor and intends to make the Lu family's children kings. She first inquires about the royal mausoleum of the right prime minister.
Wang Ling said: Emperor Gao killed the white horse and swore an oath with the ministers: If he is not a descendant of the Liu family and becomes king, everyone in the world will destroy him.
It is against the oath to make a descendant of the Lu family king now.
The Queen Mother was very unhappy.
Ask Zuo Prime Minister Chen Ping and Jianghou Zhou Bo.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
勃等对曰： 高帝定天下，王子弟，今太后称制，王昆弟诸吕，无所不可。
太后喜，罢朝。
王陵让陈平、绛侯曰： 始与高帝啑血盟，诸君不在邪？
今高帝崩，太后女主，欲王吕氏，诸君从欲阿意背约，何面目见高帝地下？
陈平、绛侯曰： 於今面折廷争，臣不如君；夫全社稷，定刘氏之後，君亦不如臣。
王陵无以应之。
十一月，太后欲废王陵，乃拜为帝太傅，夺之相权。
王陵遂病免归。
乃以左丞相平为右丞相，以辟阳侯审食其为左丞相。
左丞相不治事，令监宫中，如郎中令。
食其故得幸太后，常用事，公卿皆因而决事。
乃追尊郦侯父为悼武王，欲以王诸吕为渐。
translation: 
Zhou Bo and others replied: Emperor Gao brought peace to the world and made his children kings. Now that the Queen Mother is in charge of the court, she can make her brothers and the children of the Lu family kings. There is nothing wrong with that.
The Queen Mother became happy and returned to the palace.
Wang Ling scolded Chen Ping and Jianghou, saying: Were you not present when we made a blood oath with Emperor Gao?
Now that Emperor Gao is dead, the Queen Mother comes to court as a heroine and intends to make the children of the Lu family kings. Even if you want to flatter and break your oath, how can you have the face to go to Jiuquan to see Emperor Gao after your death?
Chen Ping and Jianghou said: "Today we openly oppose in front of the Queen Mother and fight hard in the court, we are not as good as you; when it comes to protecting the country and stabilizing the kingship of Liu's descendants, you are not as good as us."
Wang Ling was speechless.
In November, the Queen Mother wanted to depose Wang Ling, so she made him the emperor's tutor and deprived him of his powers as prime minister.
Therefore, Wang Ling claimed that he was ill and was dismissed from office and returned home.
Then Chen Ping, the prime minister of the left, was made the prime minister of the right, and Marquis Piyang Shenshi was made the prime minister of the left.
Prime Minister Zuo did not manage government affairs and asked him to supervise the affairs of the palace, just like a doctor.
Therefore, Shen Shiqi was favored by the Queen Mother and often made decisions on government affairs. The ministers relied on him to decide important matters.
Then he pursued Li Hou's father as the King of Wuwu, intending to use this as the beginning of making the Lu family's children kings.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四月，太后欲侯诸吕，乃先封高祖之功臣郎中令无择为博城侯。
鲁元公主薨，赐谥为鲁元太后。
子偃为鲁王。
鲁王父，宣平侯张敖也。
封齐悼惠王子章为硃虚侯，以吕禄女妻之。
齐丞相寿为平定侯。
少府延为梧侯。
乃封吕种为沛侯，吕平为扶柳侯，张买为南宫侯。
太后欲王吕氏，先立孝惠後宫子彊为淮阳王，子不疑为常山王，子山为襄城侯，子朝为轵侯，子武为壶关侯。
太后风大臣，大臣请立郦侯吕台为吕王，太后许之。
建成康侯释之卒，嗣子有罪，废，立其弟吕禄为胡陵侯，续康侯後。
二年，常山王薨，以其弟襄城侯山为常山王，更名义。
十一月，吕王台薨，谥为肃王，太子嘉代立为王。
三年，无事。
四年，封吕嬃为临光侯，吕他为俞侯，吕更始为赘其侯，吕忿为吕城侯，及诸侯丞相五人。
宣平侯女为孝惠皇后时，无子，详为有身，取美人子名之，杀其母，立所名子为太子。
孝惠崩，太子立为帝。
translation: 
In April, the Queen Mother planned to make the children of the Lu family a marquis, so she first made Feng Wuze, a great minister of the Great Ancestor, the Marquis of Bocheng.
Princess Lu Yuan died and was given the posthumous title of Queen Mother Lu Yuan.
Her son was named King of Lu.
The father of King Lu was Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping.
Liu Zhang, the son of King Hui of Qi, was granted the title of Zhu Xuhou, and Lu Lu's daughter was married to him.
Prime Minister Qi Shou was granted the title of Marquis of Pingding.
Yang Chengyan of Shaofu was granted the title of Wuhou.
Then they named Lu Zhong as Peihou, Lu Ping as Fuliuhou, and Zhang Mai as Nangonghou.
The Queen Mother wanted to make Lu's children kings, so she first made Liu Qiang, the son of Emperor Xiaohui's harem, the King of Huaiyang, Liu Buyi the King of Changshan, Liu Shan the Marquis of Xiangcheng, Liu Chao the Marquis of Zhi, and Liu Wu the Marquis of Huguan.
The Empress Dowager signaled to the ministers in a low voice, and the ministers requested that Li Hou Lutai be granted the title of King Lu, and the Empress Dowager agreed.
After the death of Lu Shizhi, Marquis of Kang in Jiancheng, his son who had inherited the title was found guilty and was deposed. His younger brother Lu Lu was granted the title of Marquis of Huling and succeeded Kang Marquis.
In the second year, King Changshan died, and his younger brother Liu Shan, Marquis of Xiangcheng, was appointed King of Changshan and his name was changed to Yi.
In November, King Lu Tai died. He was posthumously named King Su, and Prince Lu Jia was made king on his behalf.
For three years, nothing significant happened.
In the fourth year, Lu Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Linguang, Lu Ta was granted the title of Marquis of Yu, Lu Gengshi was granted the title of Marquis of Zheng Qi, and Lu An was granted the title of Marquis of Lu Cheng. In addition, five princes, prime ministers and ministers were granted the title of marquis.
When Xuanpinghou's daughter was Empress Xiaohui, she had no son, so she pretended to be pregnant, brought a beautiful son and called her son, then killed the child's mother and made the child the prince.
Emperor Xiaohui died and the prince ascended the throne as emperor.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
帝壮，或闻其母死，非真皇后子，乃出言曰： 后安能杀吾母而名我？
我未壮，壮即为变。
太后闻而患之，恐其为乱，乃幽之永巷中，言帝病甚，左右莫得见。
太后曰： 凡有天下治为万民命者，盖之如天，容之如地，上有欢心以安百姓，百姓欣然以事其上，欢欣交通而天下治。
今皇帝病久不已，乃失惑惛乱，不能继嗣奉宗庙祭祀，不可属天下，其代之。
群臣皆顿首言： 皇太后为天下齐民计所以安宗庙社稷甚深，群臣顿首奉诏。
帝废位，太后幽杀之。
五月丙辰，立常山王义为帝，更名曰弘。
不称元年者，以太后制天下事也。
以轵侯朝为常山王。
置太尉官，绛侯勃为太尉。
五年八月，淮阳王薨，以弟壶关侯武为淮阳王。
六年十月，太后曰吕王嘉居处骄恣，废之，以肃王台弟吕产为吕王。
translation: 
When the emperor grew up, he heard that his biological mother had died and that he was not born to the queen, so he said: How can the queen kill my biological mother and call me her son?
I haven't grown up yet. When I grow up, I will rebel against her.
When the Queen Mother heard this, she was deeply worried. She was afraid that he would rebel, so she imprisoned him in Yongxiang. She said that the emperor was very ill and the courtiers around him could not see the emperor.
The Queen Mother said: Anyone who can rule all the people in the world should cover everything like the sky and accommodate all things like the earth. The emperor will comfort the people with joy and love, the people will serve the emperor happily, and the emotions from above to below will be harmonious, and the world will be governed.
Now that the emperor has been ill for a long time and is confused and confused, he cannot be the emperor's successor and worship the ancestral temple. It is not acceptable to entrust the world to him. Someone should be found to replace him.
The ministers all kowtowed and said: The Empress Dowager has really thought deeply about stabilizing the ancestral temple and the country for the benefit of the people of the world. We all kowtow and follow your edict.
The emperor was deposed and the queen mother secretly murdered him.
On May 11th, Liu Yi, king of Changshan, was made emperor and his name was changed to Hong.
The reason why the year is not changed and is called the first year is because the Queen Mother is autocratic in world affairs.
Liu Chao, the Marquis of Zhi, was the king of Changshan.
The official position of Taiwei was set up, and Jianghou Zhou Bo was appointed as Taiwei.
In August of the fifth year, King Huaiyang died, and his younger brother Liu Wu, Marquis of Huguan, was granted the title of King of Huaiyang.
In October of the sixth year, the Queen Mother said that King Lu Jia was usually arrogant and indulgent, so she deposed him and made Lu Chan, the younger brother of King Su Lu Tai, the king of Lu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夏，赦天下。
封齐悼惠王子兴居为东牟侯。
七年正月，太后召赵王友。
友以诸吕女为受后，弗爱，爱他姬，诸吕女妒，怒去，谗之於太后，诬以罪过，曰： 吕氏安得王！
太后百岁後，吾必击之 。
太后怒，以故召赵王。
赵王至，置邸不见，令卫围守之，弗与食。
其群臣或窃馈，辄捕论之，赵王饿，乃歌曰： 诸吕用事兮刘氏危，迫胁王侯兮彊授我妃。
我妃既妒兮诬我以恶，谗女乱国兮上曾不寤。
我无忠臣兮何故弃国？
自决中野兮苍天举直！
于嗟不可悔兮宁蚤自财。
为王而饿死兮谁者怜之！
吕氏绝理兮讬天报仇。
丁丑，赵王幽死，以民礼葬之长安民冢次。
己丑，日食，昼晦。
translation: 
Summer, amnesty for the world.
Liu Xingju, the son of King Hui of Qi, was granted the title of Marquis of Dongmou.
In the first month of the seventh year, the Queen Mother summoned King Zhao Liuyou to the capital.
Liu You married Lu's daughter as his queen. He did not like her but liked other concubines. This Lu family's daughter was jealous and left angrily. She went to the Queen Mother to speak ill of him, falsely accused him of committing a crime, and said that King Zhao had said: "How can Lu family be crowned king?"
After the Queen Mother reaches 100 years old, I will definitely destroy them.
The Queen Mother was furious and summoned King Zhao to the capital.
King Zhao came to the capital and placed him in his official residence. He did not receive him and ordered his guards to surround him and deny him anything to eat.
Some of his subordinates secretly brought him food, and they were arrested and tried for crimes. King Zhao was hungry, so he sang: "Zhu Lu has the power, the Liu family is in danger; you are coercing the princes, forcing me to marry the Lu family's daughter as my concubine."
My concubine is jealous and slanders me for committing a crime; she slanders my daughter and brings chaos to the country, but the emperor doesn't understand.
I have no loyal ministers, otherwise why would I lose my feudal kingdom?
In the wilderness of suicide, Heaven must uphold justice in its affairs!
Alas, I have no regrets. I would rather kill myself as soon as possible.
I starve to death for the sake of the king, who has mercy on me?
Lu is unreasonable and has no choice but to ask God to avenge me.
On the 18th, King Zhao was imprisoned and died, and he was buried next to the graves of the people of Chang'an using the etiquette of ordinary people.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse and the day was dark.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
太后恶之，心不乐，乃谓左右曰： 此为我也。
二月，徙梁王恢为赵王。
吕王产徙为梁王，梁王不之国，为帝太傅。
立皇子平昌侯太为吕王。
更名梁曰吕，吕曰济川。
太后女弟吕嬃有女为营陵侯刘泽妻，泽为大将军。
太后王诸吕，恐即崩後刘将军为害，乃以刘泽为琅邪王，以慰其心。
梁王恢之徙王赵，心怀不乐。
太后以吕产女为赵王后。
王后从官皆诸吕，擅权，微伺赵王，赵王不得自恣。
王有所爱姬，王后使人酖杀之。
王乃为歌诗四章，令乐人歌之。
王悲，六月即自杀。
太后闻之，以为王用妇人弃宗庙礼，废其嗣。
宣平侯张敖卒，以子偃为鲁王，敖赐谥为鲁元王。
秋，太后使使告代王，欲徙王赵。
代王谢，原守代边。
translation: 
The Queen Mother was disgusted and unhappy, so she said to the attendants: "It must be because of me."
In February, Liu Hui, the king of Liang, became the king of Zhao.
King Lu Lu Chan moved to the throne and became King Liang. King Liang did not go to the feudal state to take office, but stayed in the capital as the emperor's tutor.
The emperor's son Liu Tai, Marquis of Changping, was made King Lu.
Liang was renamed Lu, and Lu was renamed Jichuan.
The Queen Mother's sister Lu Yu had a daughter who was the wife of Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, who was a general.
The Empress Dowager conferred the title of king on a descendant of the Lu family. She was afraid that General Liu would cause chaos after her death, so she named Liu Ze King Langxie to comfort him.
Liu Hui, the king of Liang, was moved to the state of Zhao and became king. He was very unhappy.
The Queen Mother took Lu Chan's daughter as King Zhao's queen.
The queen's attendant officials are all members of the Lu family. They use their power exclusively to spy on King Zhao, but King Zhao cannot do whatever he wants.
King Zhao had a beloved concubine, and the queen sent someone to kill her with poisoned wine.
So King Zhao composed four chapters of poetry and asked the musicians to sing.
King Zhao was deeply saddened and committed suicide in June.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she thought that King Zhao had abandoned the ancestral ethics for women and would no longer allow his descendants to inherit the throne.
Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping, died. Because his son Zhang Yan was the King of Lu, Zhang Ao was given the posthumous title of King Lu Yuan.
In autumn, the Queen Mother sent an envoy to tell King Dai that she wanted to move him to Zhao to become king.
King Dai declined, hoping to guard the borders of Dai's country.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
太傅产、丞相平等言，武信侯吕禄上侯，位次第一，请立为赵王。
太后许之，追尊禄父康侯为赵昭王。
九月，燕灵王建薨，有美人子，太后使人杀之，无後，国除。
八年十月，立吕肃王子东平侯吕通为燕王，封通弟吕庄为东平侯。
三月中，吕后祓，还过轵道，见物如苍犬，据高后掖，忽弗复见。
卜之，云赵王如意为祟。
高后遂病掖伤。
高后为外孙鲁元王偃年少，蚤失父母，孤弱，乃封张敖前姬两子，侈为新都侯，寿为乐昌侯，以辅鲁元王偃。
及封中大谒者张释为建陵侯，吕荣为祝兹侯。
诸中宦者令丞皆为关内侯，食邑五百户。
七月中，高后病甚，乃令赵王吕禄为上将军，军北军；吕王产居南军。
吕太后诫产、禄曰： 高帝已定天下，与大臣约，曰 非刘氏王者，天下共击之 。
translation: 
Grand Tutor Lu Chan and Prime Minister Chen Ping all said that Marquis Lu Lu of Wu Xin was in the highest position and ranked first in the order. Please make him the King of Zhao.
The Queen Mother agreed and honored Lu Lu's father, Kanghou, as King Zhao Zhao.
In September, King Liu Jian of Yan Ling died. He had a son born from beauty. The Queen Mother sent people to kill the son. King Yan Ling had no heirs and the kingdom was abolished.
In October of the eighth year, King Lu Su's son Lu Tong, the Marquis of Dongping, was made King of Yan, and Lu Tong's younger brother Lu Zhuang was granted the title of Marquis of Dongping.
In March, Empress Lu held an exorcism ceremony. When she came back and passed by Zhi Road, she saw something like a black dog entrenched under Empress Gao's arm. Suddenly she couldn't see it again.
After divination, it was said that King Zhao was causing trouble as he wished.
So I got a problem with my high back armpits.
Because her grandson Zhang Yan, King of Lu Yuan, was young and lost his parents prematurely, he was alone and weak in power, so he made Zhang Ao's two sons from his former concubines marquis, Zhang Xi was named Xindu Marquis, and Zhang Shoufeng was named Lechang Hou, in order to assist Zhang Yan, King of Lu Yuan.
Zhang Shi, the great emissary of the Central Government, was also granted the title of Marquis of Jianling, and Lu Rong was granted the title of Marquis of Zhuzi.
Those Ling and Cheng who were served by eunuchs in the palace were all granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, and each of them had a settlement of 500 households.
In July, Queen Gao's condition worsened, so he ordered King Lu Lu of Zhao to be the general to command the Northern Army; King Lu Chan of Lu commanded the Southern Army.
Empress Dowager Lu warned Lu Chan and Lu Lu: After Emperor Gao brought peace to the world, he made an agreement with his ministers that if he claimed the title of king because he was not a descendant of the Liu family, the people of the world would destroy him together.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
今吕氏王，大臣弗平。
我即崩，帝年少，大臣恐为变。
必据兵卫宫，慎毋送丧，毋为人所制。
辛巳，高后崩，遗诏赐诸侯王各千金，将相列侯郎吏皆以秩赐金。
大赦天下。
以吕王产为相国，以吕禄女为帝后。
高后已葬，以左丞相审食其为帝太傅。
硃虚侯刘章有气力，东牟侯兴居其弟也。皆齐哀王弟，居长安。
当是时，诸吕用事擅权，欲为乱，畏高帝故大臣绛、灌等，未敢发。
硃虚侯妇，吕禄女，阴知其谋。
恐见诛，乃阴令人告其兄齐王，欲令发兵西，诛诸吕而立。
硃虚侯欲从中与大臣为应。
齐王欲发兵，其相弗听。
八月丙午，齐王欲使人诛相，相召平乃反，举兵欲围王，王因杀其相，遂发兵东，诈夺琅邪王兵，并将之而西。
translation: 
Now that Lu is the king, the ministers are indignant.
I am about to die, the emperor is still young, and I am afraid that the ministers will launch a rebellion.
You must control the army and protect the palace. You must not mourn me or be controlled by others.
On August 1, Empress Gao died, leaving an edict to reward each of the princes and kings with one thousand catties of gold. The generals, prime ministers, princes, and officials were all rewarded with gold according to their rank.
Amnesty to the world.
The king of Lu, Lu Chan, was the prime minister, and Lu Lu's daughter was the queen.
After Gao Hou was buried, Prime Minister Zuo judged him as the emperor's Taifu.
Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang were very powerful, and Dongmuhou Liu Xingju was his younger brother. They were both younger brothers of King Qi Ai and lived in Chang'an.
At that time, a group of people from the Lu family were monopolizing power and wanted to cause chaos, but they were afraid of Jianghou, Guan Ying and other ministers of the former Gaodi and did not dare to initiate it.
Zhu Xuhou's wife was the son and daughter of Lu Lu and knew their plot secretly.
He was afraid of being killed, so he privately sent someone to tell his brother, King Qi, that he wanted him to send troops to the west, kill the descendants of the Lu family and establish himself as emperor.
Zhu Xuhou planned to join the ministers to respond to the King of Qi.
The King of Qi wanted to send troops, but his prime minister refused to comply.
On August 26, the King of Qi was about to send someone to kill the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister Zhao Ping rebelled and planned to attack the King of Qi. The King of Qi took the opportunity to kill his Prime Minister, so he sent troops eastward and used deception to capture King Langxie's army. He led both armies to march westward.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
语在齐王语中。
齐王乃遗诸侯王书曰： 高帝平定天下，王诸子弟，悼惠王王齐。
悼惠王薨，孝惠帝使留侯良立臣为齐王。
孝惠崩，高后用事，春秋高，听诸吕，擅废帝更立，又比杀三赵王，灭梁、赵、燕以王诸吕，分齐为四。
忠臣进谏，上惑乱弗听。
今高后崩，而帝春秋富，未能治天下，固恃大臣诸侯。而诸吕又擅自尊官，聚兵严威，劫列侯忠臣，矫制以令天下，宗庙所以危。
寡人率兵入诛不当为王者。
汉闻之，相国吕产等乃遣颍阴侯灌婴将兵击之。
灌婴至荥阳，乃谋曰： 诸吕权兵关中，欲危刘氏而自立。
今我破齐还报，此益吕氏之资也。
乃留屯荥阳，使使谕齐王及诸侯，与连和，以待吕氏变，共诛之。
齐王闻之，乃还兵西界待约。
吕禄、吕产欲发乱关中，内惮绛侯、硃虚等，外畏齐、楚兵，又恐灌婴畔之，欲待灌婴兵与齐合而发，犹豫未决。
当是时，济川王太、淮阳王武、常山王朝名为少帝弟，及鲁元王吕后外孙，皆年少未之国，居长安。
赵王禄、梁王产各将兵居南北军，皆吕氏之人。
列侯群臣莫自坚其命。
太尉绛侯勃不得入军中主兵。
曲周侯郦商老病，其子寄与吕禄善。
绛侯乃与丞相陈平谋，使人劫郦商。令其子寄往绐说吕禄曰： 高帝与吕后共定天下，刘氏所立九王，吕氏所立三王，皆大臣之议，事已布告诸侯，诸侯皆以为宜。
今太后崩，帝少，而足下佩赵王印，不急之国守籓，乃为上将，将兵留此，为大臣诸侯所疑。
translation: 
This incident is recorded in "Qi Mourning the Family of King Hui".
The King of Qi wrote to the princes and kings: Emperor Gao pacified the world and made his children kings. King Hui Hui made him the king of Qi.
When King Hui Hui passed away, Emperor Xiaohui sent Zhang Liang, the Marquis of Liu, to make me the King of Qi.
Emperor Xiaohui passed away and Empress Gao came to power. She was old and listened to the opinions of Lu's group and deposed the emperor without authorization. She also killed three Zhao kings one after another, abolished Liang, Zhao and Yan, and used the title of Lu's children as kings. Qi was also divided into four parts.
The loyal ministers gave advice, but the empress was confused and refused to accept it.
Now that Empress Gao has passed away, the emperor is still young and cannot govern the world, so he can only rely on ministers and princes. However, the Lu family prides itself on its position, gathers troops, uses its majesty to intimidate the loyal ministers of the princes, and orders the world under the pretext of imperial edicts. Therefore, the Liu family's ancestral temple is in danger.
I led the army to the court to eliminate those who should not be king.
When the Han court heard the news, Prime Minister Lu Chan and others sent Yingyin Marquis Guanying to lead an army to attack the King of Qi.
When Guan Ying arrived in Xingyang, he discussed with others that the Lu family had taken control of the army in Guanzhong and wanted to eliminate the Liu family and establish themselves as emperor.
If I defeat Qi's army now and go back to resume my life, this will further strengthen the Lu family's power.
So Guan Ying stationed troops in Xingyang and sent envoys to inform the king of Qi and the princes of other countries. We must unite with them, wait for Lu's rebellion, and get rid of Lu together.
After the King of Qi heard the news, he withdrew his army to the western border of Qi State, waited for the news, and acted as agreed.
Lu Lu and Lu Chan wanted to launch a rebellion in Guanzhong, but they were afraid of Suihou, Zhu Xuhou and others internally, and externally they were afraid of the armies of Qi and Chu. They were also worried about Guan Ying's rebellion, so they planned to wait until Guan Ying's army fought with Qi's army before launching a rebellion.
At this time, King Liu Tai of Jichuan, King Liu Wu of Huaiyang, King Liu Chao of Changshan, and King Lu Yuan, grandson of Empress Lu, who were nominally younger brothers of the Young Emperor, all did not return to the country due to their young age and lived in Chang'an.
Zhao Wang Changlu and Liang Wang Lu Chan each commanded troops and lived in the Northern and Southern Army. They were both from the Lu family.
No one among the princes and ministers felt that they would be able to save their lives.
Taiwei Jianghou Zhou Bo could not enter the military camp to take control of the army.
The Marquis of Qu Zhou, Li Shang, was old and sick, and his son Li Ji was friendly with Lu Lu.
Jianghou discussed the strategy with Chen Ping, the prime minister, and sent people to kidnap Li Shang, and asked Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu and say: Emperor Gao and Queen Lu jointly pacified the world. The Liu family was granted nine kings, and the Lu family was granted three kings. They were all agreed upon by the ministers. This matter has been notified to the princes, and they all think it is appropriate.
Now that the Queen Mother is dead and the Emperor is young, and you wear the seal of King Zhao, you do not return home quickly to defend the country, but as a general, you lead the army to stay here, and you are suspected by the ministers and princes.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
足下何不归印，以兵属太尉？
请梁王归相国印，与大臣盟而之国，齐兵必罢，大臣得安，足下高枕而王千里，此万世之利也。
吕禄信然其计，欲归将印，以兵属太尉。
使人报吕产及诸吕老人，或以为便，或曰不便，计犹豫未有所决。
吕禄信郦寄，时与出游猎。
过其姑吕嬃，嬃大怒，曰： 若为将而弃军，吕氏今无处矣。
乃悉出珠玉宝器散堂下，曰： 毋为他人守也
左丞相食其免。
八月庚申旦，平阳侯窋行御史大夫事，见相国产计事。
郎中令贾寿使从齐来，因数产曰： 王不蚤之国，今虽欲行，尚可得邪？
具以灌婴与齐楚合从，欲诛诸吕告产，乃趣产急入宫。
平阳侯颇闻其语，乃驰告丞相、太尉。
太尉欲入北军，不得入。
translation: 
Why don't you return the general's seal and hand over the army to the Taiwei?
And ask the King of Liang to return the seal and ribbon of the Prime Minister, make an alliance with the ministers, and go to his own kingdom. In this way, the King of Qi will definitely stop his troops, the ministers can be stable, and you can sit back and relax, and be king for thousands of miles, which will be beneficial to future generations.
Lu Lu believed in Li Ji's suggestion and planned to return the general's seal and return the army to the Taiwei.
They sent people to tell Lu Chan and the elders in the Lu clan. Some of them thought it was appropriate, while others said it was inappropriate. They hesitated and had not made up their minds.
Lu Lu trusted Li Ji very much and often went hunting with him.
Once when he passed by his aunt Lu Yu's house, Lu Yu was furious and said: If you give up the army as a general, the Lu family will have no place to settle down.
So he took out all the jewels and valuables and threw them away in the hall, saying: "Don't guard these things for others."
Prime Minister Zuo reviewed the food and was dismissed.
On the morning of August 10, Pingyang Marquis Cao Cheng, who acted as the imperial censor, met with Prime Minister Lu Chan to discuss matters.
The doctor ordered Jia Shou to go to Qi State as an envoy and came back. He accused Lu Chan and said: "You didn't go to your own country earlier. Even if you want to leave now, can you still do it?"
He told Lu Chan all about Guan Ying's alliance with Qi and Chu and planned to exterminate the Lu family, and urged Lu Chan to enter the palace quickly.
When Pingyang Hou heard these words, he rode on horseback and reported to the prime minister and Taiwei.
The Taiwei wanted to enter the Northern Army, but he couldn't.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
襄平侯通尚符节。乃令持节矫内太尉北军。
太尉复令郦寄与典客刘揭先说吕禄曰： 帝使太尉守北军，欲足下之国，急归将印辞去，不然，祸且起。
吕禄以为郦兄不欺己，遂解印属典客，而以兵授太尉。
太尉将之入军门，行令军中曰： 为吕氏右襢，为刘氏左襢。
军中皆左衤亶为刘氏。
太尉行至，将军吕禄亦已解上将印去，太尉遂将北军。
然尚有南军。
平阳侯闻之，以吕产谋告丞相平，丞相平乃召硃虚侯佐太尉。
太尉令硃虚侯监军门。
令平阳侯告卫尉： 毋入相国产殿门。
吕产不知吕禄已去北军，乃入未央宫，欲为乱，殿门弗得入，裴回往来。
平阳侯恐弗胜，驰语太尉。
太尉尚恐不胜诸吕，未敢讼言诛之，乃遣硃虚侯谓曰： 急入宫卫帝。
硃虚侯请卒，太尉予卒千馀人。
入未央宫门，遂见产廷中。
translation: 
Xiangping Hou Jitong was in charge of Fujie, so the Taiwei asked him to pass the imperial edict on the occasion of the festival, so that the Taiwei would join the Northern Army.
The Taiwei then asked Li Ji and Liu Jie, the Dianke, to advise Lu Lu: "The emperor sent the Taiwei to lead the Northern Army and wants you to go to your own country. Return the general's seal as soon as possible and leave here. Otherwise, a big disaster will happen to you."
Lu Lu believed that Li Ji would not deceive him, so he took off the general's seal and gave it to Dianke, and gave the military power to the Taiwei.
After the Taiwei took control of the army, he entered the army gate and ordered the army to say: Those who support the Lu family should bare their right arms, and those who support the Liu family should bare their left arms.
All the sergeants and soldiers in the army showed their left arms and supported the Liu family.
When the Taiwei came to the Northern Army, General Lu Lu had already taken off his general seal and left, so the Taiwei commanded the Northern Army.
However, there were still Confederate forces that were not under control.
Marquis Pingyang heard what Jia Shou said to Lu Chan and told Prime Minister Chen Ping about Lu Chan's plot. Prime Minister Chen Ping asked Zhu Xuhou to assist the Taiwei.
The Taiwei asked Zhu Xuhou to guard the camp gate.
The Marquis of Pingyang was sent to tell the Weiwei: Don't let Prime Minister Lu Chan enter the palace gate.
Lu Chan didn't know that Lu Lu had left the Northern Army, so he entered Weiyang Palace and wanted to cause trouble, but he couldn't enter the palace gate and wandered back and forth there.
Pingyang Hou was worried that he would not be able to win, so he ran off on horseback and told the Taiwei about the situation.
The Taiwei was still afraid that he would not be able to defeat Lu's group, so he did not dare to publicly declare to kill Lu, so he dispatched Zhu Xuhou and said to him: Enter the palace quickly to protect the emperor.
Zhu Xuhou wanted some troops, and the Taiwei assigned him more than a thousand soldiers.
Zhu Xuhou entered the gate of Weiyang Palace and saw Lu Chan in the palace.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
日餔时，遂击产。
产走，天风大起，以故其从官乱，莫敢斗。
逐产，杀之郎中府吏厕中。
硃虚侯已杀产，帝命谒者持节劳硃虚侯。硃虚侯欲夺节信，谒者不肯，硃虚侯则从与载，因节信驰走，斩长乐卫尉吕更始。
还，驰入北军，报太尉。
太尉起，拜贺硃虚侯曰： 所患独吕产，今已诛，天下定矣。
遂遣人分部悉捕诸吕男女，无少长皆斩之。
辛酉，捕斩吕禄，而笞杀吕嬃。
使人诛燕王吕通，而废鲁王偃。
壬戌，以帝太傅食其复为左丞相。
戊辰，徙济川王王梁，立赵幽王子遂为赵王。
遣硃虚侯章以诛诸吕氏事告齐王，令罢兵。
灌婴兵亦罢荥阳而归。
诸大臣相与阴谋曰： 少帝及梁、淮阳、常山王，皆非真孝惠子也。
吕后以计诈名他人子，杀其母，养後宫，令孝惠子之，立以为後，及诸王，以彊吕氏。
今皆已夷灭诸吕，而置所立，即长用事，吾属无类矣。
translation: 
At dusk, they attacked Lu Chan, but Lu Chan escaped.
A strong wind blew in the sky, so Lu Chan's officials were in confusion and did not dare to resist.
Zhu Xuhou chased Lu Chan and killed him in the toilet of the doctor's palace.
Zhu Xuhou had already killed Lu Chan, and the emperor sent an audience to express condolences to Zhu Xuhou. Zhu Xuhou wanted to seize the letter of loyalty, but the visitor refused, so Zhu Xuhou rode with him in a car, used the letter of justice to drive away, and killed Lu Gengshi, the guard of Changle Palace.
When he came back, he drove into the Northern Army and reported to the Taiwei.
The Taiwei stood up to congratulate Zhu Xuhou and said: "We are only worried about Lu Chan. Now that he has been killed, the overall situation of the world has been decided."
Immediately, people were sent to arrest the men and women of the Lu family respectively, and all of them, old and young, were executed.
On September 11, Lu Lu was captured and beheaded, and Lu Yu was beaten to death with whips and sticks.
He sent people to kill King Lu Tong of Yan and deposed King Zhang Yan of Lu.
On September 12, the emperor's tutor was appointed as the prime minister of the left.
On September 18th, the king of Jichuan was moved to Liang, and Liu Sui, the son of King You of Zhao, was made king of Zhao.
He sent Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang to tell the King of Qi about the execution of the Lu family and asked him to withdraw his army.
Guan Ying's army also withdrew from Xingyang and went to the capital.
The ministers discussed with each other privately: The young emperor, the king of Liang, the king of Huaiyang, and the king of Changshan are not really the sons of Emperor Xiaohui.
Empress Lu used deception to call other people's sons the sons of Emperor Xiaohui, killed the child's mother, raised him in the harem, and made Emperor Xiaohui his son, the heir to the emperor and the king, in order to strengthen the power of the Lu family.
Now that the Lu clan has all been wiped out, if the person they appointed becomes emperor, when he grows up and takes power, all of us will be killed.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
不如视诸王最贤者立之。
或言 齐悼惠王高帝长子，今其適子为齐王，推本言之，高帝適长孙，可立也 。
大臣皆曰： 吕氏以外家恶而几危宗庙，乱功臣今齐王母家驷，驷钧，恶人也。即立齐王，则复为吕氏。
欲立淮南王，以为少，母家又恶。
乃曰： 代王方今高帝见子，最长，仁孝宽厚。
太后家薄氏谨良。
且立长故顺，以仁孝闻於天下，便。
乃相与共阴使人召代王。
代王使人辞谢。
再反，然後乘六乘传。後九月晦日己酉，至长安，舍代邸。
大臣皆往谒，奉天子玺上代王，共尊立为天子。
代王数让，群臣固请，然後听。
translation: 
It is better to choose the wisest among the kings and make him emperor.
Some people say that King Qi Yaohui is the eldest son of Emperor Gao, and now his legitimate son is the King of Qi. Looking at the origin from the perspective of close relatives and concubines, King Qi is the eldest grandson of Emperor Gao and can be established as emperor.
The ministers all said: The Lu family committed evil acts as a relative, almost endangering the Liu family's ancestral temple and destroying the heroes. Now the Sijun of Queen Qi's mother's family is a bad person. If King Qi is made emperor, another Lu family will appear.
He wanted to make him the king of Huainan, but he thought he was young and his mother's family was also very vicious.
Everyone said: King Dai is one of the sons of Emperor Gao who is still alive. He has the longest career and is a kind, filial and generous man.
Queen Mother Bo's family is cautious and kind-hearted.
Moreover, the one with the longest standing was already justified. In addition, the king's benevolence and filial piety were known all over the world, so it was completely appropriate to establish him as emperor.
So they secretly summoned the king to the capital together.
The king sent someone to say goodbye.
The envoy went to greet him for the second time, and then King Dai rode a carriage pulled by six horses. On Jiyou day at the end of September, he arrived in Chang'an and stayed at King Dai's official residence.
The ministers all went to pay homage, presented the emperor's seal to the king, and unanimously honored the king as the emperor.
Dai Wang repeatedly declined, but the ministers insisted on their request, and Dai Wang finally agreed.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
东牟侯兴居曰： 诛吕氏吾无功，请得除宫。
乃与太仆汝阴侯滕公入宫，前谓少帝曰： 足下非刘氏，不当立。
乃顾麾左右执戟者掊兵罢去。
有数人不肯去兵，宦者令张泽谕告，亦去兵。
滕公乃召乘舆车载少帝出。
少帝曰： 欲将我安之乎？
滕公曰 出就舍。
舍少府。
乃奉天子法驾，迎代王於邸。
报曰： 宫谨除。
代王即夕入未央宫。
有谒者十人持戟卫端门，曰： 天子在也，足下何为者而入？
代王乃谓太尉。
太尉往谕，谒者十人皆掊兵而去。
代王遂入而听政。
夜，有司分部诛灭梁、淮阳、常山王及少帝於邸。
代王立为天子。
二十三年崩，谥为孝文皇帝。
太史公曰：孝惠皇帝、高后之时，黎民得离战国之苦，君臣俱欲休息乎无为，故惠帝垂拱，高后女主称制，政不出房户，天下晏然。
translation: 
Liu Xingju, the Marquis of Dongmou, said: I have no merit in getting rid of the Lu family. Please let me clean up the palace.
He and his servant Ruyinhou Tenggong entered the palace, stepped forward and said to the young emperor: "You are not from the Liu family, so you should not be made emperor."
So he turned around and ordered the guards holding halberds on the left and right of the young emperor to put down their weapons and leave.
Several people refused to lay down their weapons. Zhang Ze, the leader of the eunuchs, went to speak and they also laid down their weapons.
Duke Teng called for a chariot to drive the young emperor out of the palace.
The young emperor said: Where do you want to drag me?
Duke Xi said: Go out and live.
The young emperor was placed in Shaofu accommodation.
Then he used the Emperor's Dharma to go to Daiwang Guanxie to greet the Daiwang.
Report to the king: The palace has been cleaned up.
King Dai entered Weiyang Palace that night.
There were ten visitors holding halberds guarding the main entrance and saying, "The emperor is here, what are you doing in there?"
Dai Wang told the Taiwei about the situation.
The Taiwei went to explain, and all ten of the visitors put down their weapons and walked away.
The king then entered the palace to listen to political affairs.
At night, the officials separately killed King Liang, King Huaiyang, King Changshan and the young emperor in the official residence.
On behalf of the king, he was established as the emperor.
He died in the 23rd year of his reign and was posthumously named Emperor Xiaowen.
Tai Shigong said: During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Gao, the people were freed from the suffering of the Warring States Period. The emperor and ministers all wanted to recuperate and rule by doing nothing. Therefore, Emperor Xiaohui dropped his clothes and handed over his clothes. Empress Gao used the heroine to act as the emperor. Political affairs did not go out of the door, and the world was peaceful.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
刑罚罕用，罪人是希。
民务稼穑，衣食滋殖。
高祖犹微，吕氏作妃。
及正轩掖，潜用福威。
志怀安忍，性挟猜疑。置鸩齐悼，残彘戚姬。孝惠崩殒，其哭不悲。
诸吕用事，天下示私。
大臣菹醢，支孽芟夷。祸盈斯验，苍狗为菑。
translation: 
Punishment was rarely used and the number of sinners was few.
The people are diligent in farming and have more food and clothing.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty first started to rebel, Lu Pheasant became his wife.
After the world was pacified, Empress Lu began to dominate and prosper secretly.
Empress Lu was a stoic person with a cruel and suspicious personality. She poisoned King Liu Fei of Qi with poisoned wine, and cruelly cut off Concubine Qi's hands and feet and called her a human pig. When Emperor Hui died, Empress Lu pretended to cry and was not sad.
He appointed his relatives with the same surname to rule the world privately.
Kill the ministers, cut off the Liu family's queens and their heirs, harm the people, and make them miserable.


