Chunk 0: 
original: 
张惠绍，字德继，义阳人也。
少有武干。
齐明帝时为直阁，后出补竟陵横桑戍主。
永元初，母丧归葬于乡里。
闻义师起，驰归高祖，板为中兵参军，加宁朔将军、军主。
师次汉口，高祖使惠绍与军主硃思远游遏江中，断郢、鲁二城粮运。
郢城水军主沈难当帅轻舸数十挑战，惠绍击破，斩难当，尽获其军器。
义师次新林、硃雀，惠绍累有战功。
建康城平，迁辅国将军、前军，直阁、左细仗主。
高祖践阼，封石阳县侯，邑五百户。
迁骁骑将军，直阁、细仗主如故。
时东昏余党数百人，窃入南北掖门，烧神虎门，害卫尉张弘策。
惠绍驰率所领赴战，斩首数十级，贼乃散走。
translation: 
Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang.
He had military talent in his youth.
During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he was appointed as Zhihe, and later he was appointed as the garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang.
In the early years of Yongyuan, his mother passed away and he returned to his hometown for burial.
When he heard about the rise of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he hurried to join Gaozu. He was appointed as a soldier in the army and joined the army as general Ningshuo and military leader.
The righteous army was temporarily stationed in Han Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Siyuan, the leader of the Hui Shao Yu army, to patrol the Yangtze River to block the grain transportation channel between Ying and Lu cities.
Shen Nandang, the navy chief of Yingcheng, led ten light warships to challenge Hui Shao, but was defeated by Hui Shao. Shen Nandang was beheaded and all his weapons were seized.
The righteous army stopped at Xinlin and Zhuque, and Hui Shao made many military exploits.
After Jiankang City was captured by the righteous army, Hui Shao moved to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the front army, the commander of Zhihe and Zuoxi.
After Liang Gaozu ascended the throne, he granted Huishao the title of Marquis of Shiyang County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Hui Shao was again promoted to General of Xiaoqi, and the masters of Zhihe and Xizhan remained the same.
At that time, the remnant party of Donghun Hou, consisting of hundreds of people, secretly sneaked into Nanyemen and Beiyemen, set fire to Shenhumen, and killed the guard Zhang Hongce.
Hui Shao led his men to rush to fight and beheaded them to the tenth level. Only then did the rest of the party escape.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以功增邑二百户。迁太子右卫率。
天监四年，大举北伐，惠绍与冠军长史胡辛生、宁朔将军张豹子攻宿预，执城主马成龙，送于京师。
使部将蓝怀恭于水南立城为掎角。
俄而魏援大至，败陷怀恭，惠绍不能守，是夜奔还淮阴，魏复得宿预。
六年，魏军攻钟离，诏左卫将军曹景宗督众军为援，进据邵阳。惠绍与冯道根、裴邃等攻断魏连桥，短兵接战，魏军大溃。
以功增邑三百户，还为左骁骑将军。
寻出为持节、都督北兗州诸军事、冠军将军、北兗州刺史。
魏宿预、淮阳二城内附，惠绍抚纳有功，进号智武将军，益封二百户。
入为卫尉卿，迁左卫将军。
出为持节、都督司州诸军事、信威将军、司州刺史、领安陆太守。
在州和理，吏民亲爱之。
征还为左卫将军，加通直散骑常侍，甲仗百人，直卫殿内。
十八年，卒，时年六十三。
诏曰： 张惠绍志略开济，干用贞果。
translation: 
Due to his meritorious service, Hui Shao increased his residence by 200 households, and was moved to the position of the crown prince's right guard.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Liang Jun launched a large-scale Northern Expedition. Hui Shaoyu champion Hu Xinsheng and Ningshuo general Zhang Baozi attacked Suyu, captured the city lord Ma Chenglong, and escorted him to the capital.
He asked his general Lan Huaigong to build a city on the south bank of the river, forming a cornering force.
Soon, reinforcements from the Wei army arrived in large numbers, defeated Lan Huaigong and captured the city built by Huaigong. Hui Shao could not defend the city of Yu, so he fled back to Huaiyin that night, and the Wei army regained the city.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, the Wei army attacked Zhongli. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered the left guard general Cao Jingzong to supervise the various armies as backup and marched to occupy Shaoyang. Hui Shao, Feng Daogen, Pei Sui and others attacked the Wei army's connecting bridge. The two armies fought in close combat, and the Wei army was defeated.
Hui Shao also added 300 households to the city due to his meritorious service. After returning, he served as General Zuo Xiaoqi.
Soon after, he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Northern Yanzhou, Champion General, and Governor of Northern Yanzhou.
The two cities of Suyu and Huaiyang of the Wei State were surrendered to the Liang Dynasty. Hui Shao was promoted to the title of General Zhiwu due to his meritorious service in recruiting and appeasing them, and was granted an additional 200 households.
Later he was recalled to serve as Wei Qing and moved to Zuowei General.
He also served as Chijie, governor of all military affairs in Sizhou, general Xinwei, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as prefect of Anlu.
Huishao managed the state well during his term, and the officials and the people loved him very much.
Sai Niu was recalled to the capital to serve as the general of the left guard. He was appointed as a regular attendant on the cavalry and led an armored honor guard of 100 people to guard the palace.
In the eighteenth year of Tianjian, Ji Saichao passed away at the age of sixty-three.
The emperor's Shao Shu wrote: Zhang Huishao's ambition and talent can be used to start a business and save time, and he can stick to the right path and complete it satisfactorily.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
诚勤义始，绩闻累任。
爰居禁旅，尽心朝夕。
奄至殒丧，恻怆于怀。
宜追宠命，以彰勋烈。
可赠护军将军，给鼓吹一部，布百匹，蜡二百斤。
谥曰忠。
子澄嗣。
澄初为直阁将军，丁父忧，起为晋熙太守，随豫州刺史裴邃北伐，累有战功，与湛僧智、胡绍世、鱼弘并当时之骁将。
历官卫尉卿、太子左卫率。
卒官，谥曰愍。
冯道根，字巨基，广平酂人也。
少失父，家贫，佣赁以养母。
行得甘肥，不敢先食，必遽还以进母。
年十三，以孝闻于乡里。
郡召为主簿，辞不就。
年十六，乡人蔡道斑为湖阳戍主，道斑攻蛮锡城，反为蛮所困，道根救之。
translation: 
He is a sincere and diligent person who abides by principles and has achieved outstanding results in all his official positions.
When he was serving as a guard in the palace, he devoted himself to guarding him day and night.
Passing away suddenly now makes people feel sad and sad.
Appointments with special gifts can be given posthumously in recognition of his achievements.
He can be posthumously given the title of General Guarding the Army, a piece of propaganda, one hundred bolts of cloth, and two hundred catties of wax.
Mi called Zhong.
He was succeeded by his son Zhang Cheng.
At first, he was appointed as General Zhihe. After his father's death, he was appointed as the prefect of Zhesesu. He followed the governor Zhosai in the Northern Expedition and made many military exploits. At that time, Yu Zhan Sengzhi, Hu Shaoshi, and Yu Dan were all brave generals.
Throughout his life, he served as Weiweiqing, Prince Zuoweili and other officials.
He died in office and was named Mi.
Dun Daodan, whose courtesy name is Danji, was born in Luluo.
He lost his father when he was young and his family was poor. He had been employed as a worker since he was a child to support his mother.
When he got delicious food, he didn't dare to eat it first. He had to go home quickly and donate it to his mother.
At only thirteen years old, he was famous in his hometown for his filial piety.
The county governor called him to be the chief clerk, but he refused.
When he was sixteen years old, fellow countryman Tomb Daowang served as the garrison leader of Yingdang. Daowang attacked the base where the barbarians lived, but was besieged by the barbarians. Feng Daogen went to rescue him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
匹马转战，杀伤甚多，道斑以免，由是知名。
齐建武末，魏主托跋宏寇没南阳等五郡，明帝遣太尉陈显达率众复争之。
师入汮均口，道根与乡里人士以牛酒候军，因说显达曰： 汋均水迅急，难进易退。
魏若守隘，则首尾俱急。
不如悉弃船舰于酂城，方道步进，建营相次，鼓行而前。
如是，则立破之矣。
显达不听，道根犹以私属从军。
及显达败，军人夜走，多不知山路；道根每及险要，辄停马指示之，众赖以全。
寻为汮均口戍副。
永元中，以母丧还家。
闻高祖起义师，乃谓所亲曰： 金革夺礼，古人不避，扬名后世，岂非孝乎？
时不可失，吾其行矣。
率乡人子弟胜兵者，悉归高祖。
translation: 
He fought alone in the east and west and killed many enemies. As a result, Dao Ban was able to avoid the siege, and Feng Daogen became a famous figure.
In the last years of Lu Suman's reign, Wei Tong Tuo Bisai led troops to invade and annex five counties including Zhiwu. Zadan Tuo sent Taiwei Tuo Tikui to lead the army to regain the lost territory.
When the troops entered the ditch, Feng Daogen and the villagers greeted the army with beef and wine, and persuaded Xianda: "The water in the ditch is fast and turbulent, making it difficult to advance but easy to retreat."
If the Wei army holds the pass, you will be in a critical situation.
It would be better to leave all the ships in Fengcheng, march forward on foot as a whole, build camps one by one, and march forward beating drums.
In this way, the Wei army can be defeated quickly.
Xianda did not follow his advice, and Daogen still let his men follow the army.
When Xianda was defeated, the soldiers fled overnight, but most of them did not know the mountain roads. Every time Feng Daogen reached a dangerous place, he stopped his horse and pointed the direction to the soldiers. The team relied on his guidance to survive.
Soon, Feng Daogen served as Mizoguchi's deputy garrison commander.
During the Yongyuan period, Feng Daogen's mother passed away and he went home to attend the funeral.
When I heard that Zhidan was organizing an insurrectionary division, I told my relatives: We cannot observe etiquette during wars, and the ancients did not avoid this issue. If we can be famous for future generations, isn't it not filial piety?
This opportunity cannot be missed, I have to leave.
He led all the children in the village who could serve as soldiers to defect to Gaozu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
时有蔡道福为将从军，高祖使道根副之，皆隶于王茂。
茂伐沔，攻郢城，克加湖，道根常为前锋陷陈。
会道福卒于军，高祖令道根并领其众。
大军次新林，随王茂于硃雀航大战，斩获尤多。
高祖即位，以为骁骑将军，封增城县男，邑二百户。
领文德帅，迁游击将军。
是岁，江州刺史陈伯之反，道根随王茂讨平之。
天监二年，为宁朔将军、南梁太守，领阜陵城戍。
初到阜陵，修城隍，远斥候，有如敌将至者，众颇笑之。
道根曰： 怯防勇战，此之谓也。
修城未毕，会魏将党法宗、傅竖眼率众二万，奄至城下。道根堑垒未固，城中众少，皆失色。
translation: 
At that time, there was a general named Cai Daofu, and Gaozu asked Daogen to be his deputy. They were all subordinate to Wang Zhan.
When Wang Jian attacked the ground, attacked the strong ball, and conquered the twists and turns, the channel bearers were all charging ahead.
When Cai Daofu died in the army during the Han Dynasty, Chanpai ordered Tongdao Dan to command all the troops of Ji Daohuan.
The rebel army was stationed in Qianta. When they met Daolong and Wang Lu, they fought in Saique and killed many enemies.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Feng Daodan as General Xiaoqi. He was also granted the title of Male of Zengcheng County and was given the title of a resident of 200 households.
He also led Said Commander and was promoted to guerrilla general.
In this year, Chen Bozhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, rebelled. When he met Daodan and Wang Peng, he attacked him quickly and put down the rebellion.
In the second year of Yujian, Feng Daogen was appointed as General Ningshuo, Grand Administrator of Muliang County, and concurrently as her garrison commander in the imperial palace.
As soon as Yaodaozou arrived in Huanglu, he built a moat and placed sentries at a distance, as if the enemy was about to come. Everyone laughed at him.
Feng Daogen said: Be careful and defensive. Fight bravely, this is what I mean.
The trenches had not yet been built, and General Yu Shifu led 20,000 troops to attack the city. At this time, the trench fortress of Fuling City built by Daogen was not strong enough, and there were few soldiers in the city. Everyone was panicked.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
道根命广开门，缓服登城，选精锐二百人，出与魏军战，败之。
魏人见意闲，且战又不利，因退走。
是时魏分兵于大小岘、东桑等，连城相持。
魏将高祖珍以三千骑军其间，道根率百骑横击破之，获其鼓角军仪。
于是粮运既绝，诸军乃退。
迁道根辅国将军。
豫州刺史韦睿围合肥，克之。道根与诸军同进，所在有功。
六年，魏攻钟离，高祖复诏睿救之，道根率众三千为睿前驱。
至徐州，建计据邵阳洲，筑垒掘堑，以逼魏城。
道根能走马步地，计马足以赋功，城隍立办。
及淮水长，道根乘战舰，攻断魏连桥数百丈，魏军败绩。
益封三百户，进爵为伯。
translation: 
Feng Daogen ordered the city gate to be opened wide. He calmly put on his battle uniform and climbed to the top of the city. He selected 200 elite soldiers and went out to fight the Wei army and defeated the Wei army.
Qiao Jun saw that Dao Dan was looking at ease, but it was not in his best position to fight with him, so he retreated.
At that time, the Wei army divided its forces and deployed them in Zuoxian, Chenmaggot, Sailuo and other places. The cities maintained contact with each other and faced each other with Fuling City in Daogen.
Wei general Gao Zuzhen led 3,000 cavalry to communicate with each other. Feng Daogen led 100 cavalry to defeat the Wei army and captured the Wei army's Gujiao Army honor guard.
As a result, the Wei army's food transportation channels were cut off, and all armies had to retreat.
Feng Daogen was promoted to general of the auxiliary country.
Wei San, the governor of Yuzhou, surrounded and captured Hefei. Feng Daogen and other armies advanced together, making contributions wherever they went.
In the sixth year, Gong's army attacked Zhongpan, and Shandan ordered Wei Ti to go to rescue him. He met Daodan and led 3,000 soldiers as Wei San's vanguard.
After arriving in Xuzhou, Feng Daogen suggested occupying Shaoyangzhou first, building fortresses, and digging trenches to attack the Wei army's fortifications.
Feng Daogen was able to measure the land on horseback, and the length of the land could be obtained by counting the number of steps taken by the horse. The moat was quickly repaired.
When the water in the Huaihe River rose, Feng Daogen took a warship and attacked the Wei army's bridge by 100 feet. The Wei army was defeated.
Feng added 300 households in the settlement and was promoted to the title of uncle.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
还，迁云骑将军、领直阁将军，改封豫宁县，户邑如前。
累迁中权中司马、右游击将军、武旅将军、历阳太守。
八年，迁贞毅将军、假节、督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史、领汝阴太守。
为政清简，境内安定。
十一年，征为太子右卫率。
十三年，出为信武将军、宣惠司马、新兴、永宁二郡太守。
十四年，征为员外散骑常侍、右游击将军，领硃衣直阁。
十五年，为右卫将军。
道根性谨厚，木讷少言，为将能检御部曲，所过村陌，将士不敢虏掠。
每所征伐，终不言功，诸将讠雚哗争竞，道根默然而已。
其部曲或怨非之，道根喻曰： 明主自鉴功之多少，吾将何事。
高祖尝指道根示尚书令沈约曰： 此人口不论勋。
约曰： 此陛下之大树将军也。
处州郡，和理清静，为部下所怀。
translation: 
After returning to the army, he was promoted to General Yunqi and General Zhihe. Later, he was granted the title of Bo of Yuning County, with the same number of households as before.
He was repeatedly appointed as Sima of Zhongquan, General of Right Guerrilla, General of Military Brigade, and Prefect of Liyang County.
In the eighth year, he moved to the post of General Zhenyi, Jiajie, in charge of military affairs in Yuzhou, governor of Yuzhou, and concurrently served as prefect of Ruyinxing.
Feng Daogen's administration was clean and simple, and the county was stable.
In the eleventh year, he was called to serve as the prince's right guard.
In the thirteenth year, he served as General Xinwu, Sima Xuanhui, and Governor of Xingxing Yongning County.
In the fourteenth year, he was called to serve as Yuanwai Sanqi Changshi, Right Guerrilla General, and concurrently as Zhu Yi Zhihe.
In the fifteenth year, he was appointed as the right guard general.
Feng Daogen had a cautious and generous character, and was dull and talkative. When he was a general, he was able to restrain his subordinates. The officers and soldiers did not dare to plunder the villages they passed through.
After every battle, Daogen always did not say his own credit. Other generals clamored for credit, but he just remained silent.
Some of his subordinates had complaints against him, but Daogen reasoned with him and said: The emperor is very aware of everything and will be able to identify who has done more and who has done less, so what else should we do?
Gao Dan once pointed at Dao Dan and said to Shangshu Lingxuan: This man never talks about his achievements.
Shen Yue said: This is your Majesty's General Big Tree.
Fallen: When Mandan was an official in the state and county, he was lenient and gentle in governance, and his administration was clear and without disputes. He has always been remembered by his subordinates.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
在朝廷，虽贵显而性俭约，所居宅不营墙屋，无器服侍卫，入室则萧然如素士之贫贱者。
当时服其清退，高祖亦雅重之。
微时不学，既贵，粗读书，自谓少文，常慕周勃之器重。
十六年，复假节、都督豫州诸军事、信武将军、豫州刺史。
将行，高祖引朝臣宴别道根于武德殿，召工视道根，使图其形像。
道根踧谢曰： 臣所可报国家，惟余一死；但天下太平，臣恨无可死之地。
豫部重得道根，人皆喜悦。
高祖每称曰： 冯道根所在，能使朝廷不复忆有一州。
居州少时，遇疾，自表乞还朝，征为散骑常侍、左军将军。
既至疾甚，中使累加存问。
普通元年正月，卒，时年五十八。
是日舆驾春祠二庙，既出宫，有司以闻。
高祖问中书舍人硃异曰： 吉凶同日，今行乎？
translation: 
When he was an official in the imperial court, even though he was in a distinguished position, he was still very frugal in nature. The house he lived in had no walls, no utensils, clothing, and no guards. Entering his room, it was very deserted, just like the house of a poor and lowly person among ordinary people.
People at that time admired his poverty and indifference, and Emperor Gaozu also valued him very much.
Daogen did not have the opportunity to study when he was young and in a low position. After his status rose, he became proficient in writing and calligraphy. He claimed that he lacked literary talent and often envied Zhou Bo for being valued for his talents.
In the 16th year, Feng Daogen was once again appointed as Jiejie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Yuzhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Yuzhou.
Before leaving, Gaozu led the court officials to hold a farewell banquet for him in Wude Hall. Gaozu called a painter to observe Daogen and then paint his image.
Daogen respectfully and uneasily thanked him and said: The only thing I can do to serve the country is to die; but now that the world is at peace, I just wish there was no place or opportunity to die.
The Yuzhou tribe regained Feng Daogen, and everyone was very happy.
Emperor Gaozu often praised him and said: Wherever Feng Daogen went, he was able to make the court no longer remember that there was still a state to be dispatched.
Feng Daogen fell ill soon after he took office in the state. He submitted a petition to the emperor, requesting to return to the capital. The emperor summoned him to serve as a regular servant of the cavalry and a general of the left army.
When Daogen returned to the capital, his condition became even more serious. The emperor sent envoys to inquire about his condition several times.
In the first month of the first year of the ordinary year, Feng Daogen passed away at the age of fifty-eight.
On the day of his death, the emperor was about to go to the Second Temple to perform a spring festival. As soon as he left the palace, relevant officials reported to him the news of Daogen's death.
Zhu Yi, a member of Emperor Gaozu's Jianzhong Shushe, said: Good luck and bad luck fall on the same day. Can I go today?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
异对曰： 昔柳庄寝疾，卫献公当祭，请于尸曰： 有臣柳庄，非寡人之臣，是社稷之臣也，闻其死，请往。
不释祭服而往，遂以襚之。
道根虽未为社稷之臣，亦有劳王室，临之，礼也。
高祖即幸其宅，哭之甚恸。
诏曰： 豫宁县开国伯、新除散骑常侍、领左军将军冯道根，奉上能忠，有功不伐，抚人留爱，守边难犯，祭遵、冯异、郭亻及、李牧，不能过也。
奄致殒丧，恻怆于怀。
可赠信威将军、左卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
赙钱十万，布百匹。
谥曰威。
子怀嗣。
康绚，字长明，华山蓝田人也。
其先出自康居。
初，汉置都护，尽臣西域。
康居亦遣侍子待诏于河西，因留为黔首，其后即以康为姓。
translation: 
Zhu Yi replied: Once upon a time, Liuzhuang died of illness in bed, and Wei Xianggong was performing sacrifices. He asked the person who presided over the sacrifices: There is a minister named Liuzhuang. He is not my minister, but a minister of Sheji. I heard that he was dead, and I asked to see him.
He went to Liuzhuang's house without taking off his sacrificial robes, and presented Liuzhuang with clothes and quilts.
Although Feng Daogen did not become a minister of Sheji, he still made contributions to the royal family. It is in line with etiquette for Your Majesty to visit him.
Emperor Gaozu came to Daogen's house and mourned Daogen. He was very sad.
The letter issued by Shao said: Feng Daogen, the founding uncle of Yuning County, the new regular attendant of Sanqi, and the general of the left army, served the court with loyalty, had meritorious service without boasting, comforted the people with love, and guarded the border to make it difficult for the enemy to invade. Even the former Ji Zun, Feng Yi, Guo Ji, and Li Mu could not surpass him.
His sudden death left people feeling sad.
You can posthumously confer him the title of General Xinwei and General Zuowei, and give him a piece of propaganda.
Give away one hundred thousand pieces of money and one hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Haowei.
He was succeeded by his son Feng Huai.
Chen Pingyu Zhoulong was a native of Landanbi, Huashan County.
His ancestors came from Chenjuli.
Initially, a protective guard was set up in Lianqian.
All the countries in Youqiu were in chaos, and Chen Zhuli also sent his prince as a servant to return to the Western Protectorate to wait for the emperor's order, so he stayed there and became an ordinary citizen, and their descendants took Kang as their surname.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
晋时陇右乱，康氏迁于蓝田。
绚曾祖因为苻坚太子詹事，生穆，穆为姚苌河南尹。
宋永初中，穆举乡族三千余家，入襄阳之岘南。宋为置华山郡蓝田县，寄居于襄阳，以穆为秦、梁二州刺史。
未拜，卒。绚世父元隆，父元抚，并为流人所推，相继为华山太守。
绚少俶傥有志气。齐文帝为雍州刺史，所辟皆取名家，绚特以才力召为西曹书佐。
永明三年，除奉朝请。
文帝在东宫，以旧恩引为直后，以母忧去职。
服阕，除振威将军、华山太守。
推诚抚循，荒余悦服。
迁前军将军，复为华山太守。
永元元年，义兵起，绚举郡以应高祖，身率敢勇三千人，私马二百五十匹以从。
translation: 
During the Jin Dynasty, there was turmoil in Longyou, and the Kang family moved to Lantian.
Kang Xuan's great-grandfather Chenyu became the crown prince of Xianjian, Zhan Shi, and gave birth to a son named Kang Mu.
During the reign of Xiansai, he mobilized more than 3,000 families with the surname Chen in the township and entered the Xianan area of ​​​​Xiangyang. For this purpose, Saiqu established Lanyan, Huashan County, subordinate to Saitun, and appointed Chenmu as the governor of Taizhou and Zhezhou. He died before taking office.
Chen Mian's eldest uncle Chen Wuzhui and his father Qidou Mian were both elected by the immigrants and served as the prefect of Huashan County one after another.
When Chenmian was a young man, he was outstanding and ambitious. When Emperor Wen of Qi came to appoint the governor, all the officials he selected came from famous people. Kang Xuan was called to be the secretary of Xicao because of his special talent.
In the third year of Yongming Dynasty, Kangmian was awarded to the imperial court.
When Saitong was the crown prince in Shu Palace, Kang Xuan was appointed as his concubine by Emperor Wen because of his old friendship, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of General Zhenwei and the Grand Administrator of Huashan County.
He appeases the people and treats each other with sincerity, and people in remote areas are also convinced by him.
Later he moved to the post of general of the former army and then governor of Huashan County.
In the first year of the return year, the benevolent and righteous troops of Shandan raised troops. Kang Xuan led the entire Huashan County to respond to the direct charge. He himself led 3,000 brave men and led his 250 horses to follow Gaozu.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
除西中郎南康王中兵参军，加辅国将军。
义师方围张冲于郢城，旷日持久，东昏将吴子阳壁于加湖，军锋甚盛，绚随王茂力攻屠之。
自是常领游兵，有急应赴，斩获居多。
天监元年，封南安县男，邑三百户。
除辅国将军、竟陵太守。
魏围梁州，刺史王珍国使请救，绚以郡兵赴之，魏军退。
七年，司州三关为魏所逼，诏假绚节、武旅将军，率众赴援。
九年，迁假节、督北兗州缘淮诸军事、振远将军、北兗州刺史。
及朐山亡徒以城降魏，绚驰遣司马霍奉伯分军据嶮。魏军至，不得越朐城。
明年，青州刺史张稷为土人徐道角所杀，绚又遣司马茅荣伯讨平之。
征骠骑临川王司马，加左骁骑将军，寻转硃衣直阁。
十三年，迁太子右卫率，甲仗百人，与领军萧景直殿内。
绚身长八尺，容貌绝伦，虽居显官，犹习武艺。
高祖幸德阳殿戏马，敕绚马射，抚弦贯的，观者悦之。
其日，上使画工图绚形，遣中使持以问绚曰： 卿识此图不？
其见亲如此。
translation: 
He was appointed as the middle soldier of King Lang Chenchen of Xizhong to join the army and became a general of the country.
The uprising troops were besieging Chengwei in Dancheng for a long time. The generals of Shuhunbao, Wang Wuyan, formed an encirclement. The army's vanguard was very powerful.
From then on, Chen Mian often led soldiers on patrols, and rushed to rescue wherever there was a crisis, killing and capturing many enemies.
In the first year of Tianjian, Chen Gou was granted the title of male in Nan'an County and was granted the title of 300 households.
He was also appointed as the general of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Jingling County.
The Wei army surrounded Liang Su, and the governor Wang Zhenguo sent someone to ask for help. Kang Xuan led Jingling and Deng's soldiers there, and the Wei army retreated.
In the seventh year, the three passes of Sizhou were besieged by the Wei army. He was directly responsible for the command of Chen Mianzhi Fujie, appointed as the general of the military brigade, and led the army to rescue.
In the ninth year, he moved to Jiejie, supervised the military affairs of Yanzhou and Huaihe River in northern Yanzhou, general Zhenyuan, and governor of northern Yanzhou.
When the desperadoes in Qushan sacrificed the entire city to surrender to Xiu Mo, Chen Guan rode on horseback and dispatched Sima Ting's three reconnaissance troops to occupy the strategic area. When the Wei army arrived here, they could not cross Dan Maggot.
The next year, Yiye governor Qiang Rao was killed by the native Tu Daoyu, and Chen Mian sent Sima Lingqu to attack and pacify Tu Daojiao.
Afterwards, Kang Xuan was summoned as Sima of the King of Qiaoqi Linchuan, and became General Zuo Xiaoqi. Soon, he was transferred to Zhu Yi Zhihe.
In the thirteenth year, he was appointed as the prince's right guard and led a hundred armored soldiers. He was on duty in the palace together with the leader Xiao Jing.
Kang Xuan is eight feet tall and has an unparalleled appearance. Even though he is a prominent official, he still practices martial arts.
Once, Emperor Gaozu went to Deyang Palace for horseback riding, and asked Kang Xuan to shoot an arrow on horseback. Kang Xuan bent the bow and hit the target, and the onlookers were very happy.
One day, the emperor asked a painter to draw a portrait of Kang Xuan, and sent an eunuch to take the painting and ask Kang Xuan: Do you know anyone from the palace?
This shows how close he is.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
时魏降人王足陈计，求堰淮水以灌寿阳。
足引北方童谣曰： 荆山为上格，浮山为下格，潼沱为激沟，并灌钜野泽。
高祖以为然，使水工陈承伯、材官将军祖芃视地形，咸谓淮内沙土漂轻，不坚实，其功不可就。
高祖弗纳，发徐、扬人，率二十户取五丁以筑之。
假绚节、都督淮上诸军事，并护堰作，役人及战士，有众二十万。
于钟离南起浮山，北抵巉石，依岸以筑土，合脊于中流。
十四年，堰将合，淮水漂疾，辄复决溃，众患之。
或谓江、淮多有蛟，能乘风雨决坏崖岸，其性恶铁，因是引东西二冶铁器，大则釜鬵，小则鋘锄，数千万斤，沉于堰所。
犹不能合，乃伐树为井干，填以巨石，加土其上。
缘淮百里内，冈陵木石，无巨细必尽，负担者肩上皆穿。
夏日疾疫，死者相枕，蝇虫昼夜声相合。
高祖愍役人淹久，遣尚书右仆射袁昂、侍中谢举假节慰劳之，并加蠲复。
是冬又寒甚，淮、泗尽冻，士卒死者十七八，高祖复遣赐以衣袴。
translation: 
At that time, Wang Zu, who had surrendered from Wei, came up with a plan and asked for a dam to be built on the Huai River to flood Shouyang with water.
Wang Zu quoted a northern nursery rhyme and said: Jingshan is the upper grid, Fushan is the lower grid, Tongtuo is the Jigou, and it is filled with Ju Yeze.
Emperor Gaozu thought it was reasonable and asked hydraulic engineer Chen Chengbo and Caiguan General Zuqu to inspect the terrain. After their inspection, they both said that the sandy soil in the Huaihe River was light and not solid, so dams could not be built.
Emperor Gaozu did not adopt their opinions and mobilized the people of Xuzhou and Yangzhou to transfer dings to build dams at the rate of 5 dings for every 20 households.
Granting Kang Xuan a holiday, he commanded the military forces in Huaishang and supervised the construction of weirs and dams. There were as many as 200,000 migrant workers and soldiers serving.
In Zhongli, it starts from Fushan in the south and reaches the rocks in the north. It piles earth along the river bank and joins it in the middle stream.
In the fourteenth year, when the weirs and dams were about to be closed, the Huaihe River became fast and turbulent, and the weirs were washed away by the water again. Everyone was worried about it.
Some people say that there are often dragons in the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers. They can ride on the wind and rain and destroy the cliffs and embankments. However, they are naturally afraid of iron. Therefore, people introduced iron tools smelted from the east and west, ranging from large pots like kefu to small shovels for farming. Iron tools weighing tens of millions of kilograms were sunk into the water where the big weir is.
Still unable to close it, they cut down trees to make manhole railings, filled the middle with large rocks, and added soil on top.
Within a hundred miles along the Huaihe River, all the trees and stones on the hills and hills, no matter how big or small, were chopped down, and the shoulders of those who carried the trees and burdens were worn out.
In the summer, an epidemic broke out, and the dead migrant workers piled together, sleeping on each other, and the sound of mosquitoes, flies and insects continued day and night.
Emperor Gaozu felt sorry for the slaves who had to work for too long, so he sent Shangshu's right servant She Yuan Ang and his minister Xie Ju Chijie to the construction site to express condolences and exempt them from taxes.
This winter was very cold. The Huaihe River and swimming pools were all frozen. Seventy-eight percent of the migrant workers and soldiers died. Emperor Gaozu also sent people to give clothes and trousers to the workers.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
十一月，魏遣将杨大眼扬声决堰，绚命诸军撤营露次以待之。
遣其子悦挑战，斩魏咸阳王府司马徐方兴，魏军小却。
十二月，魏遣其尚书仆射李昙定督众军来战，绚与徐州刺史刘思祖等距之。
高祖又遣右卫将军昌义之、太仆卿鱼弘文、直阁曹世宗、徐元和相次距守。
十五年四月，堰乃成。
其长九里，下阔一百四十丈，上广四十五丈，高二十丈，深十九丈五尺。
夹之以堤，并树杞柳，军人安堵，列居其上。
其水清洁，俯视居人坟墓，了然皆在其下。
或人谓绚曰： 四渎，天所以节宣其气，不可久塞。
若凿湫东注，则游波宽缓，堰得不坏。
绚然之，开湫东注。又纵反间于魏曰： 梁人所惧开湫，不畏野战。
魏人信之，果凿山深五丈，开湫北注，水日夜分流，湫犹不减。
其月，魏军竟溃而归。
水之所及，夹淮方数百里地。
translation: 
In November, Wei sent General Yang Dayan claiming to open Dayan. Kang Xuan ordered all troops to withdraw from the barracks and sleep in the open, waiting for the arrival of the Wei army.
He sent his son Kang Yue to challenge and killed Xu Fangxing, the Sima of Wei Xianyang Palace. The Wei army retreated slightly.
In December, the state of Wei sent Minister Li Tanding to lead an army to challenge. Kang Xuan, Xuzhou governor Liu Sizu and others resisted.
Emperor Gaozu also sent right-guard general Chang Yizhi, imperial servant Yu Hongwen, Zhihe Cao Shizong, and Xu Yuanhe to resist the guards one after another.
In April of the fifteenth year, the weir was built.
It is nine miles long, one hundred and forty feet wide at the base, forty-five feet wide at the top, twenty feet high, and nineteen feet five feet deep.
There is a dike in the middle. Willow trees are planted on the dike, and the soldiers and civilians live side by side on it.
The river water is very clean. Looking down from above, you can see the houses and tombs below at a glance.
Someone said to Kang Xuan: The Yangtze River, the Huaihe River, the Yellow River, and the Jishui River are used by God to regulate and release its Qi, and they should not be blocked for a long time.
If a culvert is dug to allow water to pour eastward, the flow will be wide and gentle and the weir will not be damaged.
Kang Xuan thought he was right, so he dug a hole to the east and filled it with water. He also sent people to Wei State to counterattack and said: The people of Liang Dynasty were most afraid of digging holes, but they were not afraid of fighting in the wild.
The Wei people believed this and dug a cave five feet deep. They opened a hole in the embankment and let the water flow north into the cave. The river flowed day and night, but the water in the cave remained unabated.
That month, all the Wei troops were defeated and returned.
Wherever the river reaches, there are hundreds of miles along the Huaihe River.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
魏寿阳城戍稍徙顿于八公山，此南居人散就冈垄。
初，堰起于徐州界，刺史张豹子宣言于境，谓己必尸其事。
既而绚以他官来监作，豹子甚惭。
俄而敕豹子受绚节度，每事辄先谘焉，由是遂谮绚与魏交通，高祖虽不纳，犹以事毕征绚。
寻以绚为持节、都督司州诸军事、信武将军、司州刺史，领安陆太守，增封二百户。
绚还后，豹子不修堰，至其秋八月，淮水暴长，堰悉坏决，奔流于海，祖芃坐下狱。
绚在州三年，大修城隍，号为严政。
十八年，征为员外散骑常侍，领长水校尉，与护军韦睿、太子右卫率周舍直殿省。
普通元年，除卫尉卿，未拜，卒，时年五十七。
舆驾即日临哭。
translation: 
The garrison of Shouyang City in the Wei State had to move to Bagong Mountain to settle down. It was a graveyard formed by scattered people from the south.
Initially, when Dayan was being built within the boundaries of Xuzhou, Zhang Baozi, the governor, threatened everywhere within the territory that he would definitely take charge of the matter.
Later Chenmian sent other officials to supervise and supervise this work. King Jibao felt very ashamed.
Soon, the emperor ordered Zhang Baozi to be under Kang Xuan's command and to consult him first on everything. Therefore, Zhang Baozi falsely accused Kang Xuan of colluding with the state of Wei. Although Gaozu did not accept his words, he still consulted Kang Xuan on everything.
Soon after, Kang Xuan was transferred to Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Sizhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Sizhou. He also served as the prefect of Anlu County, adding 200 households to the city.
After Kang Xuan returned, Zhang Baozi stopped building the dam until the autumn and August of the Qian year. The backwater surged, all the weirs and dikes were broken and destroyed, and the river flowed all the way to the sea. Zuqu was arrested and imprisoned.
During Kang Xuan's three years in office in the state, he overhauled the city moat and gave strict orders to the government.
In the eighteenth year, Kang Xuan was called to serve as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi, and also served as the captain of Changcheng. He was on duty in the palace with the guard Tong He and the prince's right guard led Huang Jian.
In the first year of ordinary life, Kang Xuan was awarded the title of Wei Qing, but he passed away before he could formally become an official. He was fifty-seven years old.
The emperor went to mourn in person that day.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
赠右卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
赙钱十万，布百匹。
谥曰壮。
绚宽和少喜惧，在朝廷，见人如不能言，号为长厚。
在省，每寒月见省官繿缕，辄遗以襦衣，其好施如此。
子悦嗣。
昌义之，历阳乌江人也。少有武干。
齐代随曹虎征伐，累有战功。
虎为雍州，以义之补防阁，出为冯翊戍主。
及虎代还，义之留事高祖。时天下方乱，高祖亦厚遇之。
义师起，板为辅国将军、军主，除建安王中兵参军。
时竟陵芊口有邸阁，高祖遣驱，每战必捷。
大军次新林，随王茂于新亭，并硃雀航力战，斩获尤多。
建康城平，以为直阁将军、马右夹毂主。
天监元年，封永豊县侯，邑五百户。
除骁骑将军。
出为盱眙太守。
translation: 
He was posthumously awarded the title of General Youwei and given to the Ministry of Advocacy.
One hundred thousand dollars and one hundred bolts of cloth were given for the funeral.
Mi Hao Zhuang.
Chen's face is generous and cheerful, and his joy and anger are invisible. In the court, when he sees others, he looks like a person who can't speak, so he is called a long and thick person.
In the provincial capital, every time in the cold winter months, when I saw the provincial officials in ragged clothes, I would give them cotton-padded clothes. This was how he was so kind and charitable.
His son Kang Yue succeeded him.
Chang Yizhi, Bi Yan: Sister. He had a strong body when he was young.
During the first expedition, he followed Xuanxu in the expedition and made many military exploits.
When Cao Hu took office in Qian, he asked Zhan Zhi to fill the post of Fanghe and serve as the garrison commander of Feng Yi.
When Xuanxu was exchanged, Zhanzhi stayed to serve Zhizhuo. At that time, the world was in chaos, and Gaozu treated justice well.
After the righteous army rose up, Shanzhi was awarded the title of general of the auxiliary country and military commander, and was appointed as the middle soldier of King Jian'an to join the army.
At that time, Tong Zuodeng's Tongdan had a warehouse for storing military supplies. Chantan sent him to fight, and he won every time.
When the uprising army was stationed in Saimi, Chang Yizhi followed Wang Jian and fought hard in Qianhuang and Yuquexiao, killing and capturing many of them.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Emperor Gaozu appointed Chang Yizhi as General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu.
The first year of Tianjian. The owner of the lamp was granted the title of Lord Chengfengxuanbao, and he was granted the title of Lord of Chengfengxuanbao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Ren Xiaoqi General.
Served as the prefect of the disgraceful face sculpture.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
二年，迁假节、督北徐州诸军事、辅国将军、北徐州刺史，镇钟离。
魏寇州境，义之击破之。
三年，进号冠军将军，增封二百户。
四年，大举北伐，扬州刺史临川王督众军军洛口，义之以州兵受节度，为前军，攻魏梁城戍，克之。
五年，高祖以征役久，有诏班师，众军各退散，魏中山王元英乘势追蹑，攻没马头，城内粮储，魏悉移之归北。
议者咸曰： 魏运米北归，当无复南向。
高祖曰： 不然，此必进兵，非其实也。
乃遣土匠修堑营钟离城，敕义之为战守之备。
是冬，英果率其安乐王元道明、平东将军杨大眼等众数十万，来寇钟离。
钟离城北阻淮水，魏人于邵阳洲西岸作浮桥，跨淮通道。
英据东岸，大眼据西岸，以攻城。
translation: 
In the second year, he was moved to the post of Jiejie, supervising the military affairs of Xu maggot in the north, general of the auxiliary state, governor of Rentiao Prefecture, and guarding Zhongli.
The Wei army invaded Jitu and was defeated by Dan Zhanzhi's troops.
Three years later, Chang Zhanzhi was awarded the title of Champion General and added 200 households in the city.
In the fourth year, Luanqu launched a large-scale Northern Expedition. King Linchuan, the governor of Yangzhou, commanded various armies to be stationed in Chi. Zhanzhi led the state soldiers to accept Jiedu and served as the front army, attacked Wei's Liangcheng garrison and captured the garrison.
In the fifth year, Zhidan felt that the military conscription was too long, so he ordered the army to return to the court, and all the troops retreated. Wang Chenglong of Zhongshan in Wei State took advantage of the situation to follow and pursue, and captured Matou City. The city packed the stored grain, and all the Soviet troops moved to the north.
Commentators all said: The troops transported the rice back to the north, so they should not invade further south.
Shandan said: No, the Japanese must be marching into the army. The current situation is not the truth of the matter.
So he sent civil craftsmen to build clock plates and ordered Danzhan to prepare for war.
In the winter of this year, Cheng Ji indeed led an army of hundreds of thousands including King Seruan Wu Huaqie, General Pingdong Yang Zuozu, and invaded Zhongli southward.
The north side of Zhongli City was blocked by Qishui, so the Wei army built a pontoon bridge on the west bank of Yingbao Xun across the Huaihe River as a passage.
Yuan Ying occupied Shu'an, Yang Dayan occupied the west bank, and attacked the city with a hammer.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
时城中众才三千人，义之督帅，随方抗御。
魏军乃以车载土填堑，使其众负土随之，严骑自后蹙焉。人有未及回者，因以土迮之，俄而堑满。
英与大眼躬自督战，昼夜苦攻，分番相代，坠而复升，莫有退者。
又设飞楼及冲车撞之，所值城土辄颓落。
义之乃以泥补缺，冲车虽入而不能坏。
义之善射，其被攻危急之处，辄驰往救之，每弯弓所向，莫不应弦而倒。
一日战数十合，前后杀伤者万计，魏军死者与城平。
六年四月，高祖遣曹景宗、韦睿帅众二十万救焉，既至，与魏战，大破之，英、大眼等各脱身奔走。
义之因率轻兵追至洛口而还。斩首俘生，不可胜计。
translation: 
At that time, there were only 3,000 people in the city, and Chang Yizhi led them to resist at any time.
The Wei army then loaded trucks with earth to fill the trenches, and asked the Wei army soldiers to follow them carrying the earth on their backs. Officers rode behind them to urge them. Some people had not had time to come back, and the earth followed them, and soon the trenches were filled.
Yuan Ying and Yang Dayan personally supervised the battle, attacking hard day and night, taking turns in the battle, climbing up again after falling down, and no one retreated.
They also erected flying towers and rushed cars to ram the city wall. Wherever they hit, the soil on the city wall collapsed.
Chang Yizhi used mud to fill the gap. Even if the car crashed into the city wall, it could not destroy the city wall.
Chang Yizhi was also good at archery. When the city was in danger of being attacked, Yoshizhi rushed to the rescue. Every time he bent his bow and drew an arrow, he was invincible and no one fell down.
There were dozens of rounds of fighting in a day, with tens of thousands of casualties before and after. The number of soldiers killed by the Wei army was as high as the city wall.
In April of the sixth year, Emperor Gaozu sent Cao Jingzong and Wei Jiao to lead an army of 200,000 troops to come to the rescue. When they arrived at Zhongli, they fought with the Wei army and defeated the Wei army. Wujie, Lao Qumeng and others escaped each other.
Danxianzhi led the light cavalry and pursued them all the way to Luokou before returning. In this battle, countless Wei troops were killed or captured alive.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
以功进号军师将军，增封二百户，迁持节、督青、冀二州诸军事、征虏将军、青、冀二州刺史。
未拜，改督南兗、兗、徐、青、冀五州诸军事、辅国将军、南兗州刺史。
坐禁物出籓，为有司所奏免。
其年，补硃衣直阁，除左骁骑将军，直阁如故。
迁太子右卫率，领越骑校尉，假节。
八年，出为持节、督湘州诸军事、征远将军、湘州刺史。
九年，以本号还朝，俄为司空临川王司马，将军如故。
十年，迁右卫将军。
十三年，徙为左卫将军。
是冬，高祖遣太子右卫率康绚督众军作荆山堰。
明年，魏遣将李昙定大众逼荆山，扬声欲决堰，诏假义之节，帅太仆卿鱼弘文、直阁将军曹世宗、徐元和等救绚，军未至，绚等已破魏军。
魏又遣大将李平攻峡石，围直阁将军赵祖悦，义之又率硃衣直阁王神念等救之。
时魏兵盛，神念攻峡石浮桥不能克，故援兵不得时进，遂陷峡石。
translation: 
Due to his meritorious service, Dan Zhanzhi was promoted to the title of Military Advisor General, and he was granted an additional 200 households in the city. He was moved to the post of Chijie, Supervisor of the Military Affairs of Qingji and Qingji Prefectures, General of Conquering Captives, and Governor of Qing and Hebei Prefectures.
Before formally becoming an official, he was appointed governor of the military affairs of the five states of Southern Yanzhou, Xu Qingji, general of the auxiliary state, and governor of Southern Yanzhou.
Because he committed the crime of taking prohibited items out of his jurisdiction, he was dismissed from office by the relevant officials.
In the same year, Yizhi was appointed as Zhu Yi Zhihe and was awarded the title of General Zuo Xiaoqi. He still served as Zhihe.
Later, he moved to the right guard of the crown prince, and concurrently served as the Yueqi school captain.
In the eighth year, Chang Yizhi was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Chiye, General of Expeditions, and Governor of Xiangzhou.
In the ninth year, he returned to the court with his original title and was soon appointed Sima, King of Sikong Linchuan. His position as general remained as before.
Ten years later, he was promoted to right-guard general.
In the thirteenth year, he was appointed general of Zuowei.
In the winter of the Qian year, Emperor Gaozu sent Prince Youwei to lead Kang Xuan to supervise the army's construction of Jingshan Weir.
The next year, Wenwang sent Kui Kenxuan to lead an army to advance towards Xingshan, threatening to open the dam. The emperor ordered Yi Zhijie to lead his servant Qing Yu Hongwen, Zhihe generals Cao Shizong, Xu Yuanqu and others to rescue Chenmian. Before the army arrived, Chenxuan and others had defeated the Wei army.
The Qiao army sent General Kui Nuo to attack Chu, and surrounded General Zhihe Zhao Zuyue. Chang Yizhi then led Zhu Yi Zhihe, Wang Shennian and others to rescue him.
At that time, the morale of the Wei soldiers was high. Wang Shennian failed to attack the pontoon bridge in Xia Shi, so reinforcements could not come in immediately, so Xia Shi was trapped.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
义之班师，为有司所奏，高祖以其功臣，不问也。
十五年，复以为使持节、都督湘州诸军事、信威将军、湘州刺史。
其年，改授都督北徐州缘淮诸军事、平北将军、北徐州刺史。
义之性宽厚，为将能抚御，得人死力，及居籓任，吏民安之。
俄给鼓吹一部，改封营道县侯，邑户如先。
普通三年，征为护军将军，鼓吹如故。
四年十月，卒。
高祖深痛惜之，诏曰： 护军将军、营道县开国侯昌义之，干略沉济，志怀宽隐，诚著运始，效彰边服。
方申爪牙，寄以禁旅；奄至殒丧，恻怆于怀。
可赠散骑常侍、车骑将军，并鼓吹一部。
给东园秘器，朝服一具。
赙钱二万，布二百匹，蜡二百斤。
谥曰烈。
translation: 
When Changyi's teacher returned to the court, he was presented with a memorial by the relevant officials. Emperor Gaozu thought that he was a meritorious official and did not ask about his faults.
In the fifteenth year, Chang Yizhi was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Xiang maggot military affairs, general Xinwei, and fishery governor.
In the same year, he was changed to the governor of North Xuzhou, Yuanjin Zhujun, the general of Pingbei, and the governor of North Xuzhou.
Changyi had a generous nature, and as a general, he could soothe people's hearts and rule well, so he could be rewarded by his subordinates for their desperate efforts. When he was an official in the feudal state, his subordinates and the people were very stable.
Soon, the emperor gave him a piece of propaganda, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Yingdao County, with the same number of households as before.
After three years of Xuanbi's reign, Dan Zhanzhi was summoned to serve as the general of the army, and his propaganda continued as before.
Died in October four years.
Emperor Gaozu deeply regretted his death and wrote in the edict: Chang Yizhi, the general who protected the army and the founder of Yingdao County, was steady in his work, successful in his strategy, broad-minded and majestic, and outstanding in loyalty. At the beginning of the national destiny, he served on the border and achieved results.
After he was declared an important minister of the country, he was assigned to command the imperial guards. His sudden death is extremely sad.
He can be posthumously given the title of regular servant of scattered cavalry, general of chariot cavalry, and a department of advocacy.
Give Shuyuan a secret weapon and a set of court uniforms.
Send 20,000 yuan, 200 pieces of cloth, and 200 catties of wax.
Mi Hao Lie.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
子宝业嗣，官至直阁将军、谯州刺史。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：张惠绍、冯道根、康绚、昌义之，初起从上，其功则轻。
及群盗焚门，而惠绍以力战显；合肥、邵阳之逼，而道根、义之功多；浮山之役起，而康绚典其事：互有厥劳，宠进宜矣。
先是镇星守天江而堰兴，及退舍而堰决，非徒人事，有天道矣。
translation: 
Chang Yizhi's son Chang Shiye succeeded him, and his official positions reached General Zhihe and Governor of Qiaozhou.
Ta Sai, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Nansu Eyelashes, said: Ji Saiyi, Zhou Kan, Chen Mian, Chang Yizhi, when he first followed the emperor, his achievements were still very slight.
When a group of bandits burned the city gates, Zhang Huishao showed his merits by fighting hard; when the two cities of Hedan and Dankuang were besieged, Mai Daogen and Chang Yizhi made the most contributions; when the battle of Can broke out, it was Chun Xuan who was in charge: each of them had their own merits, so they were favored, and it was natural for them to be promoted to officials.
Before that, when Saturn was guarding the Tianjiang star, a large dam was built. After Saturn moved its position, the dam broke. This was not just a matter of personnel, but the will of heaven.


