Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 9, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张惠绍，字德继，义阳人也。
少有武干。
齐明帝时为直阁，后出补竟陵横桑戍主。
永元初，母丧归葬于乡里。
闻义师起，驰归高祖，板为中兵参军，加宁朔将军、军主。
师次汉口，高祖使惠绍与军主硃思远游遏江中，断郢、鲁二城粮运。
郢城水军主沈难当帅轻舸数十挑战，惠绍击破，斩难当，尽获其军器。
义师次新林、硃雀，惠绍累有战功。
建康城平，迁辅国将军、前军，直阁、左细仗主。
高祖践阼，封石阳县侯，邑五百户。
迁骁骑将军，直阁、细仗主如故。
时东昏余党数百人，窃入南北掖门，烧神虎门，害卫尉张弘策。
惠绍驰率所领赴战，斩首数十级，贼乃散走。
translation: 
Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang.
He had military talent in his youth.
During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he was appointed as Zhihe, and later he was appointed as the garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang.
In the early years of Yongyuan, his mother passed away and he returned to his hometown for burial.
When he heard about the rise of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he hurried to join Gaozu. He was appointed as a soldier in the army and joined the army as general Ningshuo and military leader.
The righteous army was temporarily stationed in Han Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Siyuan, the leader of the Hui Shao Yu army, to patrol the Yangtze River to block the grain transportation channel between Ying and Lu cities.
Shen Nandang, the navy chief of Yingcheng, led ten light warships to challenge Hui Shao, but was defeated by Hui Shao. Shen Nandang was beheaded and all his weapons were seized.
The righteous army stopped at Xinlin and Zhuque, and Hui Shao made many military exploits.
After Jiankang City was captured by the righteous army, Hui Shao moved to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the front army, the commander of Zhihe and Zuoxi.
After Liang Gaozu ascended the throne, he granted Huishao the title of Marquis of Shiyang County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Hui Shao was again promoted to General of Xiaoqi, and the masters of Zhihe and Xizhan remained the same.
At that time, the remnant party of Donghun Hou, consisting of hundreds of people, secretly sneaked into Nanyemen and Beiyemen, set fire to Shenhumen, and killed the guard Zhang Hongce.
Hui Shao led his men to rush to fight and beheaded them to the tenth level. Only then did the rest of the party escape.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang. During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he served as Zhihe and garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang. After his mother's death in the early Yongyuan period, he returned home for burial. Upon hearing of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he joined as a soldier and was appointed General Ningshuo. He defeated Shen Nandang's navy, seized weapons, and made many military exploits at Xinlin and Zhuque. After Jiankang was captured, he became General of the Auxiliary State and was later granted the title of Marquis of Shiyang County with 500 households. When remnants of Donghun Hou's forces attacked the palace gates, Huishao led his men to defeat them, killing many. He was promoted to Crown Prince's Right Guard and increased his residence by 200 households. In the fourth year of Tianjian, he attacked Suyu and captured the city lord Ma Chenglong. However, after Wei reinforcements arrived and defeated his general Lan Huaigong, Huishao fled to Huaiyin. In the sixth year, he fought at Zhongli under Cao Jingzong, contributing to the defeat of the Wei army. He later served as Governor of Northern Yanzhou, where he managed affairs well and was beloved by officials and people. He died at age sixty-three in the eighteenth year of Tianjian, receiving posthumous honors.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
时有蔡道福为将从军，高祖使道根副之，皆隶于王茂。
茂伐沔，攻郢城，克加湖，道根常为前锋陷陈。
会道福卒于军，高祖令道根并领其众。
大军次新林，随王茂于硃雀航大战，斩获尤多。
高祖即位，以为骁骑将军，封增城县男，邑二百户。
领文德帅，迁游击将军。
是岁，江州刺史陈伯之反，道根随王茂讨平之。
天监二年，为宁朔将军、南梁太守，领阜陵城戍。
初到阜陵，修城隍，远斥候，有如敌将至者，众颇笑之。
道根曰： 怯防勇战，此之谓也。
修城未毕，会魏将党法宗、傅竖眼率众二万，奄至城下。道根堑垒未固，城中众少，皆失色。
translation: 
At that time, there was a general named Cai Daofu, and Gaozu asked Daogen to be his deputy. They were all subordinate to Wang Zhan.
When Wang Jian attacked the ground, attacked the strong ball, and conquered the twists and turns, the channel bearers were all charging ahead.
When Cai Daofu died in the army during the Han Dynasty, Chanpai ordered Tongdao Dan to command all the troops of Ji Daohuan.
The rebel army was stationed in Qianta. When they met Daolong and Wang Lu, they fought in Saique and killed many enemies.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Feng Daodan as General Xiaoqi. He was also granted the title of Male of Zengcheng County and was given the title of a resident of 200 households.
He also led Said Commander and was promoted to guerrilla general.
In this year, Chen Bozhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, rebelled. When he met Daodan and Wang Peng, he attacked him quickly and put down the rebellion.
In the second year of Yujian, Feng Daogen was appointed as General Ningshuo, Grand Administrator of Muliang County, and concurrently as her garrison commander in the imperial palace.
As soon as Yaodaozou arrived in Huanglu, he built a moat and placed sentries at a distance, as if the enemy was about to come. Everyone laughed at him.
Feng Daogen said: Be careful and defensive. Fight bravely, this is what I mean.
The trenches had not yet been built, and General Yu Shifu led 20,000 troops to attack the city. At this time, the trench fortress of Fuling City built by Daogen was not strong enough, and there were few soldiers in the city. Everyone was panicked.

summary:
summary line 1: Feng Daogen, courtesy name Danji, was from Luluo. Orphaned young and poor, he worked to support his mother, gaining fame for filial piety at thirteen. At sixteen, he rescued fellow villager Tomb Daowang from barbarians, killing many enemies. During the Yongyuan period, after his mother's death, he joined Gaozu's righteous army, leading village youths. He served under Cai Daofu and later commanded his troops after Daofu's death. After Gaozu ascended, Daogen was made General Xiaoqi and Male of Zengcheng County with 200 households. He suppressed Chen Bozhi's rebellion. As Grand Administrator of Muliang County, he prepared defenses despite ridicule, then defeated General Yu Shifu's 20,000 troops by opening the city gates and sending out 200 elite soldiers. He later captured Wei army's Gujiao Army honor guard, cutting off their food supply. At the battle of Zhongli, he built fortresses and attacked the Wei army's bridge, contributing to their defeat. Daogen was cautious and generous, never boasting of his achievements. Gaozu compared him to General Big Tree. He lived frugally in a simple house with no walls or guards. Though uneducated in youth, he later became proficient in writing. He died at fifty-eight in the first year of the ordinary period, with Gaozu personally mourning him.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
晋时陇右乱，康氏迁于蓝田。
绚曾祖因为苻坚太子詹事，生穆，穆为姚苌河南尹。
宋永初中，穆举乡族三千余家，入襄阳之岘南。宋为置华山郡蓝田县，寄居于襄阳，以穆为秦、梁二州刺史。
未拜，卒。绚世父元隆，父元抚，并为流人所推，相继为华山太守。
绚少俶傥有志气。齐文帝为雍州刺史，所辟皆取名家，绚特以才力召为西曹书佐。
永明三年，除奉朝请。
文帝在东宫，以旧恩引为直后，以母忧去职。
服阕，除振威将军、华山太守。
推诚抚循，荒余悦服。
迁前军将军，复为华山太守。
永元元年，义兵起，绚举郡以应高祖，身率敢勇三千人，私马二百五十匹以从。
translation: 
During the Jin Dynasty, there was turmoil in Longyou, and the Kang family moved to Lantian.
Kang Xuan's great-grandfather Chenyu became the crown prince of Xianjian, Zhan Shi, and gave birth to a son named Kang Mu.
During the reign of Xiansai, he mobilized more than 3,000 families with the surname Chen in the township and entered the Xianan area of ​​​​Xiangyang. For this purpose, Saiqu established Lanyan, Huashan County, subordinate to Saitun, and appointed Chenmu as the governor of Taizhou and Zhezhou. He died before taking office.
Chen Mian's eldest uncle Chen Wuzhui and his father Qidou Mian were both elected by the immigrants and served as the prefect of Huashan County one after another.
When Chenmian was a young man, he was outstanding and ambitious. When Emperor Wen of Qi came to appoint the governor, all the officials he selected came from famous people. Kang Xuan was called to be the secretary of Xicao because of his special talent.
In the third year of Yongming Dynasty, Kangmian was awarded to the imperial court.
When Saitong was the crown prince in Shu Palace, Kang Xuan was appointed as his concubine by Emperor Wen because of his old friendship, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of General Zhenwei and the Grand Administrator of Huashan County.
He appeases the people and treats each other with sincerity, and people in remote areas are also convinced by him.
Later he moved to the post of general of the former army and then governor of Huashan County.
In the first year of the return year, the benevolent and righteous troops of Shandan raised troops. Kang Xuan led the entire Huashan County to respond to the direct charge. He himself led 3,000 brave men and led his 250 horses to follow Gaozu.

summary:
summary line 2: Chen Mian, from Huashan County, had ancestors from Chenjuli who migrated during the Jin Dynasty. Outstanding in youth, he was called to serve as secretary of Xicao. After his mother's death, he became Grand Administrator of Huashan County, where he treated people with sincerity. When Gaozu raised troops, Chen Mian led 3,000 brave men and 250 horses to join him. He was granted the title of Male of Nan'an County with 300 households. He rescued Liang Su from Wei siege and later served as Governor of Northern Yanzhou. He supervised construction of the Jingshan Weir on the Huai River, mobilizing 200,000 workers. The weir was nine miles long, but the Huai River's currents repeatedly damaged it. Iron tools were sunk to counter dragons, and trees were cut for construction. An epidemic killed seventy-eight percent of workers. In the fifteenth year, the weir was completed, but later broke. Chen Mian served as Governor of Sizhou for three years, overhauling city moats. He died at fifty-seven in the first year of the ordinary period. He was generous and cheerful, giving cotton-padded clothes to poor officials in winter.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
赠右卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
赙钱十万，布百匹。
谥曰壮。
绚宽和少喜惧，在朝廷，见人如不能言，号为长厚。
在省，每寒月见省官繿缕，辄遗以襦衣，其好施如此。
子悦嗣。
昌义之，历阳乌江人也。少有武干。
齐代随曹虎征伐，累有战功。
虎为雍州，以义之补防阁，出为冯翊戍主。
及虎代还，义之留事高祖。时天下方乱，高祖亦厚遇之。
义师起，板为辅国将军、军主，除建安王中兵参军。
时竟陵芊口有邸阁，高祖遣驱，每战必捷。
大军次新林，随王茂于新亭，并硃雀航力战，斩获尤多。
建康城平，以为直阁将军、马右夹毂主。
天监元年，封永豊县侯，邑五百户。
除骁骑将军。
出为盱眙太守。
translation: 
He was posthumously awarded the title of General Youwei and given to the Ministry of Advocacy.
One hundred thousand dollars and one hundred bolts of cloth were given for the funeral.
Mi Hao Zhuang.
Chen's face is generous and cheerful, and his joy and anger are invisible. In the court, when he sees others, he looks like a person who can't speak, so he is called a long and thick person.
In the provincial capital, every time in the cold winter months, when I saw the provincial officials in ragged clothes, I would give them cotton-padded clothes. This was how he was so kind and charitable.
His son Kang Yue succeeded him.
Chang Yizhi, Bi Yan: Sister. He had a strong body when he was young.
During the first expedition, he followed Xuanxu in the expedition and made many military exploits.
When Cao Hu took office in Qian, he asked Zhan Zhi to fill the post of Fanghe and serve as the garrison commander of Feng Yi.
When Xuanxu was exchanged, Zhanzhi stayed to serve Zhizhuo. At that time, the world was in chaos, and Gaozu treated justice well.
After the righteous army rose up, Shanzhi was awarded the title of general of the auxiliary country and military commander, and was appointed as the middle soldier of King Jian'an to join the army.
At that time, Tong Zuodeng's Tongdan had a warehouse for storing military supplies. Chantan sent him to fight, and he won every time.
When the uprising army was stationed in Saimi, Chang Yizhi followed Wang Jian and fought hard in Qianhuang and Yuquexiao, killing and capturing many of them.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Emperor Gaozu appointed Chang Yizhi as General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu.
The first year of Tianjian. The owner of the lamp was granted the title of Lord Chengfengxuanbao, and he was granted the title of Lord of Chengfengxuanbao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Ren Xiaoqi General.
Served as the prefect of the disgraceful face sculpture.

summary:
summary line 3: Chang Yizhi, with a strong body in youth, followed Xuanxu on expeditions. When Gaozu's righteous army rose, he was made General of the Auxiliary State. He fought bravely at Qianhuang and Yuquexiao. After Jiankang was pacified, he became General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu. As Governor of Zhongli, he defeated Wei invaders. In the sixth year, when Wei armies besieged Zhongli with only 3,000 defenders, Yizhi led resistance, using mud to repair walls damaged by siege engines. He was skilled in archery, killing many enemies. Cao Jingzong's relief army arrived and defeated the Wei forces. Yizhi pursued them to Luokou. He later supervised construction of Jingshan Weir under Chen Mian. He had a generous nature, soothing people's hearts as a general. He was granted the title of Marquis of Yingdao County. He died in October of the fourth year of Xuanbi's reign, with Gaozu deeply regretting his death and issuing a posthumous edict.

