Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张耳，大梁人也，少时及魏公子毋忌为客。
尝亡命游外黄，外黄富人女甚美，庸奴其夫，亡邸父客。
父客谓曰： 必欲求贤夫，从张耳。
女听，为请决，嫁之。
女家厚奉给耳，耳以故致千里客，宦为外黄令。
陈馀，亦大梁人，好儒术。
游赵苦陉，富人公乘氏以其女妻之。
馀年少，父事耳，相与为刎颈交。
高祖为布衣时，尝从耳游。
秦灭魏，购求耳千金，馀五百金。
两人变名姓，俱之陈，为里监门。
吏尝以过笞馀，馀欲起，耳摄使受笞。
吏去，耳数之曰： 始吾与公言何如？
今见小辱而欲死一吏乎？
馀谢罪。
陈涉起蕲至陈，耳、馀上谒涉。
涉及左右生平数闻耳、馀贤，见，大喜。
translation: 
Zhang Er, a native of Daliang. When he was young, he was a diner of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
Later, he lost his household registration and became anonymous and wandered to the outside world. There was a daughter of a wealthy family in Waihuang who was very beautiful and looked down upon her husband, so she secretly escaped to the home of one of her father's former guests.
Her father's guest said: "You must marry a good husband, so marry Zhang Er."
So, she followed this advice, severed her relationship with her ex-husband, and married Zhang Er.
This woman's family gave Zhang Er a lot of money, which enabled him to make friends with many guests and become the magistrate of Waihuang County.
Chen Yu was from Daliang and loved Confucianism.
He visited Kuxing in Zhao State several times, where the wealthy Gongcheng family married his daughter to him.
Chen Yu was young, so he regarded Zhang Er as his father, and the two formed a life-and-death friendship.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, he had a relationship with Zhang Er.
After Qin destroyed Wei, it offered a reward of one thousand gold for the capture of Zhang Er and five hundred gold for the capture of Chen Yu.
So the two changed their surnames and came to Chendi together to serve as lowly gatekeepers.
One time, a minor official thought Chen Yu had made a mistake and beat him with a whip. Chen Yu was not convinced and wanted to resist, but Zhang Er secretly stepped on Chen Yu's feet to make him endure the beating.
When the clerk left, Zhang Er scolded Chen Yu and said, "What did I tell you back then?"
Now after receiving a little insult, you want to fight with a petty official?
Chen Yu admitted his mistake.
Chen She revolted in Qixian County and invaded Chen Di. Zhang Er and Chen Yu reported their names and asked to see Chen She.
Chen She and his cronies Hu Su had heard many times that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were capable, and were very happy to see them.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Er, a native of Daliang, was once a retainer of Wei nobleman Wuji. After losing his household registration, he wandered to Waihuang, where a wealthy family's daughter left her husband on the advice of her father's guest and married Zhang Er with a substantial dowry. This allowed him to befriend many guests and become the magistrate of Waihuang County. Chen Yu, also from Daliang, was a Confucian scholar who married into a wealthy family in Zhao. He regarded Zhang Er as a father figure, and they formed a life-and-death friendship. When Emperor Gaozu was a commoner, he had ties with Zhang Er.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张耳，大梁人也，少时及魏公子毋忌为客。
尝亡命游外黄，外黄富人女甚美，庸奴其夫，亡邸父客。
父客谓曰： 必欲求贤夫，从张耳。
女听，为请决，嫁之。
女家厚奉给耳，耳以故致千里客，宦为外黄令。
陈馀，亦大梁人，好儒术。
游赵苦陉，富人公乘氏以其女妻之。
馀年少，父事耳，相与为刎颈交。
高祖为布衣时，尝从耳游。
秦灭魏，购求耳千金，馀五百金。
两人变名姓，俱之陈，为里监门。
吏尝以过笞馀，馀欲起，耳摄使受笞。
吏去，耳数之曰： 始吾与公言何如？
今见小辱而欲死一吏乎？
馀谢罪。
陈涉起蕲至陈，耳、馀上谒涉。
涉及左右生平数闻耳、馀贤，见，大喜。
translation: 
Zhang Er, a native of Daliang. When he was young, he was a diner of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
Later, he lost his household registration and became anonymous and wandered to the outside world. There was a daughter of a wealthy family in Waihuang who was very beautiful and looked down upon her husband, so she secretly escaped to the home of one of her father's former guests.
Her father's guest said: "You must marry a good husband, so marry Zhang Er."
So, she followed this advice, severed her relationship with her ex-husband, and married Zhang Er.
This woman's family gave Zhang Er a lot of money, which enabled him to make friends with many guests and become the magistrate of Waihuang County.
Chen Yu was from Daliang and loved Confucianism.
He visited Kuxing in Zhao State several times, where the wealthy Gongcheng family married his daughter to him.
Chen Yu was young, so he regarded Zhang Er as his father, and the two formed a life-and-death friendship.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, he had a relationship with Zhang Er.
After Qin destroyed Wei, it offered a reward of one thousand gold for the capture of Zhang Er and five hundred gold for the capture of Chen Yu.
So the two changed their surnames and came to Chendi together to serve as lowly gatekeepers.
One time, a minor official thought Chen Yu had made a mistake and beat him with a whip. Chen Yu was not convinced and wanted to resist, but Zhang Er secretly stepped on Chen Yu's feet to make him endure the beating.
When the clerk left, Zhang Er scolded Chen Yu and said, "What did I tell you back then?"
Now after receiving a little insult, you want to fight with a petty official?
Chen Yu admitted his mistake.
Chen She revolted in Qixian County and invaded Chen Di. Zhang Er and Chen Yu reported their names and asked to see Chen She.
Chen She and his cronies Hu Su had heard many times that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were capable, and were very happy to see them.

summary:
summary line 1: After Qin destroyed Wei, a reward was offered for Zhang Er and Chen Yu, so they changed their names and became gatekeepers in Chendi. When a minor official whipped Chen Yu for a mistake, Zhang Er stopped him from retaliating, advising patience. When Chen She revolted, Zhang Er and Chen Yu joined him. They advised Chen She not to declare himself king prematurely but to establish descendants of the six states to win support. Chen She ignored them and made himself king. Later, they persuaded Chen She to let them lead troops to capture Zhao territory. They recruited soldiers and won over local heroes, capturing many cities. Wu Chen declared himself King of Zhao, with Chen Yu as general and Zhang Er as prime minister. Chen She initially opposed but later confirmed Wu Chen's title under advice.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
王姊醉，不知其将，使骑谢良。
良素贵，起，惭其从官。
从官有一人曰： 天下叛秦，能者先立。
且赵王素出将军下，今女儿乃不为将军下车，请追杀之。
良以得秦书，欲反赵，未决，因此怒，遣人追杀王姊，遂袭邯郸。
邯郸不知，意杀武臣。
赵人多为耳、馀耳目者，故得脱出，收兵得数万人。
客有说耳、馀曰： 两君羁旅，而欲附赵，难可独立；立赵后，辅以谊，可就功。
乃求得赵歇，立为赵王，居信都。
李良进兵击馀，馀败良。
良走归章邯。
章邯引兵至邯郸，皆徙其民河内，夷其城郭。
耳与赵王歇走入臣鹿城，王离围之。
馀北收常山兵，得数万人，军巨鹿北。
章邯军巨鹿南棘原，筑甬道属河，饷王离。
王离兵食多，急攻巨鹿。巨鹿城中食尽，耳数使人召馀，馀自度兵少，不能敌秦，不敢前。
translation: 
King Zhao's sister was drunk and did not know that he was a general, so she sent a knight to thank Li Liang.
Li Liang has always had a high status. After he got up, he felt that he had lost face in front of his subordinates.
One of the followers said: "Everyone in the world is against Qin. Whoever has the ability will be the first to become king."
Besides, the status of King Tang has always been lower than that of the general. Now that their girl dares not to get out of the car and salute the general when she sees him, please let us chase her and kill her!
Because Li Liang received Qin's letter, he had the idea of ​​​​anti-Zhao but was hesitant. After hearing this, he was furious and immediately sent people to hunt down King Zhao's sister, and led the army to attack Handan.
Handan was completely unprepared, and Li Liangjing killed the military minister.
Many people in Tongguo informed Zhang Er and Chen Yu, so they were able to escape. They packed up the remaining Tong army and gathered tens of thousands of troops.
A guest advised Zhang Er and Chen Yu: "You two are from a foreign land. It is difficult to get the people of Zhao to join you." It would be better to establish the descendants of King Zhao of the Six Kingdoms as kings and complete the great cause of restoration in the name of assisting him.
So he found Zhao's descendant Dan Xie, made him the king of Dan, and lived in Xindu.
Li Liang raised his troops to attack Chen Yu, but was defeated by Chen Yu.
Li Liang fled to Qin general Zhang Han.
Zhang Han led his army to Handan, moved the people in Nabu to Hanoi, and razed the city of Handan to the ground.
Zhang Er and Wang Danxie fled to Julu City together and were surrounded by Wang Li.
Chen Yu gathered Changshan's army in the north, added tens of thousands of people, and stationed himself north of Julu.
Zhang Han was stationed at Jiyuan, south of Julu, and built a channel on the river to transport military supplies for Wang Li.
Wang Li's army had sufficient food and immediately attacked Julu. However, Julu City ran out of food. Zhang Er repeatedly sent people to ask Chen Yu to send troops to relieve the siege. Chen Yu believed that his troops were too small to compete with the Qin soldiers and did not dare to send troops.

summary:
summary line 2: Wu Chen was captured by Yan forces, but a clever servant convinced the Yan general that Zhang Er and Chen Yu secretly wanted Wu Chen dead to divide Zhao, so Yan released him. Li Liang, a Zhao general, rebelled after feeling insulted by Wu Chen's sister, killed Wu Chen, and attacked Handan. Zhang Er and Chen Yu escaped, gathered troops, and established Zhao Xie, a descendant of Zhao royalty, as king. Li Liang was defeated by Chen Yu and fled to Qin general Zhang Han, who razed Handan.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
数月，耳大怒，怨馀，使张黡、陈释往让馀曰： 始吾与公为刎颈交，今王与耳旦暮死，而公拥兵数万，不肯相救，胡不赴秦俱死？
且什有一二相全。
馀曰： 所以不俱死，欲为赵王、张君报秦。
今俱死，如以肉喂虎，何益？
张黡、陈释曰： 事已急，要以俱死立信，安知后虑！
馀曰： 吾顾以无益。
乃使五千人令张黡、陈释先尝秦军，至皆没。
当是时，燕、齐、楚闻赵急，皆来救。
张敖亦北收代，得万余人来，皆壁馀旁。
项羽兵数绝章邯甬道，王离军乏食。
项羽悉引兵渡河，破章邯军。
诸侯军乃敢击秦军，遂虏王离。
于是赵王歇、张耳得出巨鹿，与馀相见，责让馀，问： 张黡、陈释所在？
馀曰： 黡、释以必死责臣，臣使将五千人先尝秦军，皆没。
translation: 
After being besieged for several months, Zhang Er was furious and resentful of Chen Yu. He sent Zhang Dao and Chen Shi to rebuke Chen Yu and said: "You and I were life-and-death friends at first, but now the lives of King Zhao and I are at stake. You have tens of thousands of troops, but you refuse to save us. Why don't you rush to the Qin army and die with us?"
Maybe there is still a glimmer of hope for survival.
Chen Yu said: I don’t want to die together, but I want to avenge King Zhao and Jun Zhang.
If everyone goes to die now, it is equivalent to sending meat into the tiger's mouth. What good will it do?
Zhang Yan and Chen Shi said: The situation is urgent now. We can only keep our word through life and death. How can we care about what will happen in the future?
Chen Yu said: It doesn't matter if I die, but what's the benefit?
So they sent 5,000 men, led by Zhang Dao and Chen Shi, to attack the Qin army, but the entire army was destroyed.
During the rest of the time, Yan, Qi, and Chu heard that King Zhao was in danger and all came to help him.
Zhang Ao also regained the land of Dai in the north, recruited more than 10,000 people, and set up camp near Chen Yu's army.
Xiang Yu's army blocked Zhang Han's passage many times, causing Wang Li's army to lack food and grass.
Xiang Yu's entire army crossed the river and defeated Zhang Han's army.
Only then did the armies of various princes dare to attack the Qin army and captured Wang Li.
Zhang Er and Tan Xie were rescued from Julu. As soon as Zhang Er met Chen Yu, he blamed Chen Yu and asked where Zhang Yan and Chen Shi were.
Chen Yu said: Zhang Yan and Chen Shi asked me to fight to the death with the Qin army. I asked them to lead five thousand people to attack the Qin army to try, but the entire army was destroyed.

summary:
summary line 3: Zhang Er and Zhao Xie were besieged in Julu by Qin forces. Chen Yu, stationed nearby, refused to send troops, believing his forces too weak. Zhang Er sent envoys to rebuke him, but Chen Yu only sent 5,000 men, who were annihilated. After Xiang Yu defeated the Qin army, Zhang Er blamed Chen Yu for the deaths of the envoys, leading to a bitter rift. Chen Yu offered his seal to Zhang Er, who accepted it after persuasion, taking command of Chen Yu's army. Chen Yu left in anger, and the two became enemies.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
馀已败耳，皆收赵地，迎赵王于代，复为赵王，赵王德馀，立以为代王。
馀为赵王弱，国初定，留傅赵王，而使夏说以相国守代。
汉二年，东击楚，使告赵，欲与俱。
馀曰： 汉杀张耳乃从。
于是汉求人类耳者，斩其头遗馀，馀乃遣兵助汉。
汉败于彭城西，馀亦闻耳诈死，即背汉。
汉遣耳与韩信击破赵井陉，斩馀泜水上，追杀赵王歇襄国。
四年夏，立耳为赵王。
五年秋，耳薨，谥曰景王。
子敖嗣立为王，尚高祖长女鲁元公主，为王后。
七年，高祖从平城过赵，赵王旦暮自上食，体甚卑，有子婿礼。
高祖箕踞骂詈，甚慢之。
赵相贯高、赵午年六十余，故耳客也，怒曰： 吾王孱王也！
说敖曰： 天下豪桀并起，能者先立，今王事皇帝甚恭，皇帝遇王无礼，请为王杀之。
敖啮其指出血，曰： 君何言之误！
且先王亡国，赖皇帝得复国，德流子孙，秋毫皆帝力也。
translation: 
Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, regained all the land, and brought the king back from Dai County, where he was still the king. King Zhao was grateful to Chen Yu and named him acting king.
Chen Yu thought that the King of Zhao was weak and the country was in the early stages of peace, so he stayed to assist the King of Zhao, and sent the Prime Minister Guo Xia to garrison Dai.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, King Shujin of Han attacked the state of Chu. He sent someone to inform Zhao, asking him to send troops to attack Chu together.
Chen Yu said: I will send troops only if the Han kills Zhang Er.
So the king of Han found a man who looked like Zhang Er, killed him, and gave his head to Chen Yu, who then sent troops to aid Mo.
As a result, the Han army was defeated by the Chu army west of Pengcheng. Chen Yu heard about Zhang Er's fake death and betrayed Mo.
Han sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to capture Zhao's Jingxing, killed Chen Yu at the bank of the Sang River, and pursued him to Xiangguo and killed the king of Zhao, Dan Xie.
In the summer of the fourth year, Mo made Zhang Er the king of Tong.
In the autumn of the fifth year, Zhang Er died, and the Han Dynasty named him Mi King Jing.
His son Zhang Ao inherited the throne and married Princess Lu Yuan, the eldest daughter of Emperor Gaozu, as his queen.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu came to Zhao from Pingcheng. King Tong personally served him with food and drinks in the morning and evening, with a very humble attitude and the courtesy of a son-in-law.
But Gaozu sat there and shouted and scolded him loudly, looking down on him very much.
The prime minister, Guan Gao and Zhao Wu, was over sixty years old. He was a former disciple of Zhang Er. He said angrily: Our king is really a cowardly king!
He advised Zhang Ao: "There are many heroes in the world, and the talented ones should be the first to be kings." Now you are very respectful to Gaozu, but Gaozu is rude to you. Please let us kill him for you.
After hearing this, King Zhao bit his finger and it bled, and said, "How could you say such a thing!"
My father lost his country, but it was Gaozu who helped him to restore his country, and De Ze was passed down to future generations. All this is the power of the emperor.

summary:
summary line 4: After Xiang Yu divided the realm, Zhang Er was made King of Changshan, while Chen Yu received only three counties. Chen Yu, resentful, allied with Tian Rong of Qi to attack Zhang Er, who fled to Han. The Han king treated him well. Chen Yu later demanded Zhang Er's death before aiding Han, but the Han king sent a fake head. After Han's defeat, Chen Yu learned the truth and abandoned Han. Han later sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to defeat and kill Chen Yu and Zhao Xie. Zhang Er was made King of Zhao and died in the fifth year of Han. His son Zhang Ao succeeded him and married Princess Lu Yuan.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
上怒曰： 使张敖据天下，岂少乃女乎！
廷尉以贯高辞闻，上曰： 壮士！
谁知者，以私问之。
中大夫泄公曰： 臣素知之，此固赵国立名义不侵为然诺者也。
上使泄公持节问之箯舆前。
卬视泄公，劳苦如平生欢。
与语，问： 张王果有谋不？
高曰： 人情岂不各爱其父母妻子哉？
今吾三族皆以论死，岂以王易吾亲哉！
顾为王实不反，独吾等为之。
具道本根所以、王不知状。
于是泄公具以报上，上乃赦赵王。
上贤高能自立然诺，使泄公赦之，告曰： 张王已出，上多足下，故赦足下。
高曰： 所以不死，白张王不反耳。
今王已出，吾责塞矣。
且人臣有篡弑之名，岂有面目复事上哉！
乃仰绝亢而死。
敖已出，尚鲁元公主如故，封为宣平侯。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu said angrily: If Zhang Ao ruled the world, would he care about your daughter?
Tingwei reported Guan Gao's confession to Emperor Gaozu, and Emperor Gaozu said: "What a strong man!"
Anyone who is familiar with him can ask him privately.
Zhongdafu Xiegong said: I know him well. He is a person in Zhao who pays attention to honor and integrity and never breaks his promise.
Emperor Gaozu asked Xie Gongzhijie to ask in front of his chair.
Guangao raised his head and looked at Xie Gong, chatting happily as usual.
During the conversation, Duke Xie asked King Zhao if it was true that he had not rebelled.
Guan Gao said: How can a human being not love his parents, wife and children?
Now that all three members of my family are going to be executed for this, will I use my relatives to protect King Tang?
It is indeed because King Tang did not rebel, it was just what we did.
He told the whole story in detail and the situation that King Tong didn't know about at all.
So Duke Xie told Gaozu what Guan Gao said, and Gaozu pardoned King Zhao.
Emperor Gaozu appreciated Guangao's ability and courage to act and keep his word, so he asked Duke Xie to tell Guangao: "Zhang Ao has been released. The emperor appreciates you very much, so he pardons you."
Guan Gao said: The reason why I will not die is to prove that King Tang did not rebel.
Now that King Tong has been released, my responsibility has been fulfilled.
But as a minister with a reputation for usurpation, how could he still have the dignity to serve the emperor?
So he cut his neck and committed suicide.
After Zhang Fang was released from prison, he still respected Princess Lu Yuan as before, and was named Marquis of Xuanping by Emperor Gaozu.

summary:
summary line 5: Emperor Gaozu treated Zhang Ao rudely, angering his ministers Guan Gao and Zhao Wu, who plotted to kill Gaozu. Zhang Ao refused to participate. The plot failed, and Guan Gao took full blame, enduring torture to prove Zhang Ao's innocence. Gaozu eventually pardoned Zhang Ao and admired Guan Gao's loyalty, but Guan Gao committed suicide. Zhang Ao remained respectful to Princess Lu Yuan and was made Marquis of Xuanping. His descendants held various titles, though some were later stripped due to crimes.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
于是上贤张王诸客，皆以为诸侯相、郡守。
语在《田叔传》。
及孝惠、高后、文、景时，张王客子孙皆为二千石。
初，孝惠时，齐悼惠王献城阳郡，尊鲁元公主为太后。
高后元年，鲁元太后薨。
后六年，宣平侯敖薨。
吕太后立敖子偃为鲁王，以母为太后故也。
又怜其年少孤弱，乃封敖前妇子二人；寿为乐昌侯，侈为信都侯。
高后崩，大臣诛诸吕，废鲁王及二侯。
孝文即位，复封故鲁王偃为南宫侯。
薨，子生嗣。
武帝时，生有罪免，国除。
元光中，复封偃孙广国为睢陵侯。
薨，子昌嗣。
太初中，昌坐不敬免，国除。
孝平元始二年，继绝世，封敖玄孙庆忌为宣平侯，食千户。
赞曰：张耳、陈馀，世所称贤，其宾客厮役皆天下俊桀，所居国无不取卿相者。
然耳、馀始居约时，相然信死，岂顾问哉！
translation: 
At that time, Emperor Gaozu appreciated the guests of the king very much. They were either appointed as prime ministers of the princes or as county guards.
It is recorded in "The Biography of Uncle Tian".
By the time of Xiaohui, Gaohou, Emperor Wen, and Emperor Jing, the descendants of King Zhao's guests had become officials worth two thousand shi.
At the beginning, during the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, King Hui of Qi dedicated Chengyang County to Princess Lu Yuan and honored her as the Queen Mother.
In the first year of the reign of Emperor Gao, Empress Dowager Lu Yuan passed away.
Six years later, Zhang Ao, the Marquis of Xuanping, also passed away.
Empress Dowager Lu appointed Zhang Ao's son Zhang Yan as King of Lu because his mother was the Queen Mother of Qi.
Empress Lu sympathized with Zhang Yan's young age and frailty, so she granted Zhang Ao's two sons from his first marriage the title of Marquis of Lechang and Zhang Chi as Marquis of Xindu.
After Empress Gao died, the ministers killed many of Empress Lu's people. The king of Lu and the second prince were deposed.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, he granted the title of Marquis of Nangong to the original Lu King Zhang Yan.
After Zhang Yan's death, his son Zhang Sheng succeeded to the throne.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Sheng was removed from his title for being convicted, and the feudal state was abolished.
During the Yuanguang period, Zhang Guangguo, Zhang Yan's grandson, was granted the title of Marquis of Suiling.
After his death, his son Zhang Chang succeeded to the throne.
During the Taichu period, Zhang Chang was dismissed from his title for committing the crime of disrespect, and his feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty of Xiaoping, in order to promote prosperity, Zhang Qingji, the great-great-grandson of Zhang Ao, was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanping, with thousands of households in the city.
Praising said: Zhang Er and Chen Yu are recognized as sages by the world. Their guests and servants are all heroes in the world. No matter which country they are in, they all have the status of minister.
But Zhang Er and Chen Yu trusted each other when they were poor and humble at first, and they were close friends of life and death. Is there anything to doubt?

summary:
summary line 6: The historian comments that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were initially life-and-death friends but turned against each other over power, illustrating the shame of fair-weather friendships.

