Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫帝王者，配德天地，叶契阴阳，发号施令，动关幽显，休咎之征，随感而作，故《书》曰： 惠迪吉，从逆凶，惟影响。
昔伏羲氏继天而王，受《河图》，则而画之，八卦是也。
禹治洪水，赐《洛书》，法而陈之，《洪范》是也。
圣人行其道，宝其真，自天祐之，吉无不利。
三五已降，各有司存。
爰及殷之箕子，在父师之位，典斯大范。
周既克殷，以箕子归，武王虚己而问焉。
箕子对以禹所得《雒书》，授之以垂训。
然则《河图》、《雒书》相为经纬，八卦、九章更为表里。
殷道绝，文王演《周易》；周道弊，孔子述《春秋》。
奉乾坤之阴阳，郊洪范之休咎，天人之道粲然著矣。
汉兴，承秦灭学之后，文帝时，虙生创纪《大传》，其言五行庶征备矣。
后景武之际，董仲舒治《公羊春秋》，始推阴阳，为儒者之宗。
宣元之间，刘向治《谷梁春秋》，数其祸福，传以《洪范》，与仲舒多所不同。
至向子歆治《左氏传》，其言《春秋》及五行，又甚乖异。
班固据《大传》，采仲舒、刘向、刘歆著《五行志》，而传载眭孟、夏侯胜、京房、谷永、李寻之徒所陈行事，讫于王莽，博通祥变，以传《春秋》。
综而为言，凡有三术。
其一曰，君治以道，臣辅克忠，万物咸遂其性，则和气应，休征效，国以安。
二曰，君违其道，小人在位，众庶失常，则乖气应，咎征效，国以亡。
三曰，人君大臣见灾异，退而自省，责躬修德，共御补过，则消祸而福至。
此其大略也。
辄举斯例，错综时变，婉而成章，有足观者。
及司马彪纂光武之后以究汉事，灾眚之说不越前规。
今采黄初以降言祥异者，著于此篇。
translation: 
The emperor must have virtue that matches heaven and earth, harmonizes with yin and yang, gives orders, and acts in a state of trance. Signs of disaster and auspiciousness will appear due to induction. Therefore, "Shangshu" says: The way of benevolence and love is auspicious, and the indulgence of evil is unlucky, just like a shadow echoing the sound.
In the past, the Fuyi family inherited the destiny of being king, accepted the "River Map", and drew circles based on it, creating the Bagua.
When Yu controlled the flood, he was given "Luo Shu". According to its description, this is "Hong Fan".
A sage who follows his path takes truth as his treasure and is blessed by God with good fortune and no disadvantage.
Since the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, officials have been in charge of each.
Until the Yin Dynasty, Jizi occupied the position of his father's teacher and followed the example of sending great disciples.
After the Zhou Dynasty replaced the Yin Dynasty, Jizi was brought back, and King Wu humbly asked him for advice.
Jizi responded with the "Luoshu" that Yu had obtained, taught him and left instructions.
In this way, "He Yuan" and "Luo Shu" are the longitude and latitude of each other, and the Bagua and Jiu Zhang are the surface wrappers of each other.
The Taoism of the Yin Dynasty was cut off, and King Wen deduced the Book of Changes; the Taoism of the Zhou Dynasty declined, and Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Respect the yin and yang of the universe, and imitate the disasters and auspiciousness of Hong Fan, and the way of correspondence between heaven and man will be clear.
The rise of the Han Dynasty continued after the extinction of scholarship in the Qin Dynasty. During the reign of Emperor Wen, Liu Sheng created the "Da Zhuan", in which the various signs of the five elements were fully discussed.
Later, during the reigns of Emperor Jing and Emperor Wu, Dong Zhongshu studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" and began to deduce Yin and Yang, becoming the master of Confucianism.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan and Yuan Hu, Liu Xue studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", calculated its blessings and misfortunes, and wrote annotations for "Hong Fan", which was very different from Dong Zhongshu.
When Xingyi's son Su Ta studied the "Zuo Shi Zhuan", he discussed the "Spring and Autumn" and the Five Elements, but there were many differences and errors.
Based on the "Da Zhuan", Ban Gu adopted the comments of Dong Zhongshu, Liu Xiang, and Liu Xin in the "Five Elements Chronicles", and recorded the comments and deeds of Suimeng, Xia Housheng, Jingfang, Gu Yong, Kuiman, etc., ending with Wang Mang, and Botong auspicious variations to provide evidence for the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Generally speaking, there are three methods.
First, if the king governs according to the Tao, and his ministers assist and are loyal, and all things follow their nature, then there will be harmony, auspicious signs will appear, and the country will be peaceful.
Secondly, if the king disobeys his way, if a villain is in power, and all people lose their way, ominous omens will come true, signs of disaster will appear, and the country will perish.
Third, when emperors and ministers see disasters, they retreat and reflect on themselves, review their own moral character, and work together to make up for their mistakes. Then the disasters will be eliminated and good fortune will come.
This is roughly it.
Just give examples in this regard, interweave and review the changes at that time, and form a mixed chapter, which is worthy of reference.
When Sima Biao compiled the events after Emperor Guangwu to deduce the affairs of the Han Dynasty, the theory of disaster did not go beyond previous rules.
Now we select the things that Huang Chu mentioned about auspicious disasters and strange things after that, and write them in the scroll.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
《经》曰： 五行：一曰水，二曰火，三曰木，四曰金，五曰土。
水曰润下，火曰炎上，木曰曲直，金曰从革，土爰稼穑。
《传》曰： 田猎不宿，饮食不享，出入不节，夺农时及有奸谋，则木不曲直。
说曰：木，东方也。
于《易》，地上之木为《观》。
于王事，威仪容貌亦可观者也。
故行步有佩玉之度，登车有和鸾之节，三驱之制，饮食有享献之礼；出入有名，使人以时，务在劝农桑，谋在安百姓，如此，则木得其性矣。
若乃田猎驰骋，不反宫室；饮食沈湎，不顾法度；妄兴徭役，以夺农时；作为奸诈，以伤人财，则木失其性矣。
盖工匠之为轮矢者多伤败，及木为变怪，是为不曲直。
魏文帝黄初六年正月，雨，木冰。
案刘歆说，上阳施不下通，下阴施不上达，故雨，而木为之冰，氛气寒，木不曲直也。
刘向曰，冰者阴之盛，木者少阳，贵臣卿大夫象也。
此人将有害，则阴气胁木，木先寒，故得雨而冰也。
是年六月，利成郡兵蔡方等杀太守徐质，据郡反。
太守，古之诸侯，贵臣有害之应也。
一说以木冰为木介，介者甲兵之象。
是岁，既讨蔡方，又八月天子自将以舟师征吴，戍卒十余万，连旌数百里，临江观兵，又属常雨也。
元帝太兴三年二月辛未，雨，木冰。
后二年，周顗等遇害，是阳施不下通也。
穆帝永和八年正月乙巳，雨，木冰。
是年殷浩北伐，明年军败，十年废黜。
又曰，荀羡、殷浩北伐，桓温入关之象也。
孝武帝太元十四年十二月乙巳，雨，木冰。
translation: 
"Jing" says: Five elements: one is water, the second is fire, the third is wood, the fourth is metal, and the fifth is earth.
Water refers to moistening the lower part, fire refers to the flaming upper part, wood refers to straightness, gold refers to leather, and earth refers to crops.
The "Biography" says: If one does not return from the field to rest on time, does not eat and drink according to the gifts offered, does not go in and out according to the regulations, violates the farming season, and has evil plans, the tree will not be upright.
Commentary: Wood is the east.
In "Yi", the tree on the ground is "Guan".
In kingly affairs, one's majesty and appearance are impressive.
Therefore, there is a system for wearing jade when walking, there are festivals for hanging luan bells when boarding, there are regulations for three drives in the field, and there are etiquette for eating and drinking. There are regulations for going in and out, advising the people according to the seasons, encouraging farming and mulberry planting, planning and stabilizing the people. If you do this, the wood will get its nature.
If you go hunting in the fields without returning to the palace; if you indulge in food and drink without regard to the laws; if you engage in corvee work at will and violate the farming season; if you are hypocritical, evil and deceitful and harm the people's property, you will lose your nature.
The craftsmen who make chariots, bows and arrows are often in danger, and the Trojan spirit becomes strange and the creation is not straight.
In the first month of the sixth year of Huangchu, Emperor Wen of Wei, it rained and the trees froze.
Liu Xin said that there is yang above but not below, and there is yin below but no upwards, so it rains and the trees freeze because of it. This is because the evil energy is cold and the trees are not straight.
Liu Xiang said that ice represents the prosperity of yin and wood represents shaoyang, which is a symbol of noble ministers and officials.
This person will be hurt, and the yin energy will invade the wood. The wood will be cold first, so it will freeze when it rains.
In June of this year, Cai Fang and others, a soldier from Licheng County, killed the prefect Xu Zhi and occupied the county to rebel.
The prefect is like the princes in ancient times. This is the fulfillment of the harm to noble ministers.
One theory is that the frozen wood is wood, and the wood is a symbol of armor and soldiers.
That year, after the crusade against Cai Fang, and in August, the emperor himself led a navy to conquer the state of Wu, with more than 100,000 soldiers and banners stretching for hundreds of miles. He went to the Yangtze River to inspect the army, and it was Chang Yu.
In the second month of the third year of Emperor Taixing's reign, it rained and the trees froze.
In the next two years, Zhou Wei and others were killed. This was because the Yang Qi was not in harmony with the lower levels.
On Yisi, the first month of the eighth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, it rained and the trees froze.
Yin Hao was sent to the Northern Expedition in the first year, but was defeated in the second year, and Yonghe was deposed in the tenth year.
He also said that Xun Xian and Yin Hao's Northern Expedition was a sign of Huan Wen joining the alliance.
In the twelfth month of the 54th year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, it rained and the trees froze.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
明年二月王恭为北籓，八月庾楷为西籓，九月王国宝为中书令，寻加领军将军，十七年殷仲堪为荆州，虽邪正异规，而终同夷灭，是其应也。
吴孙亮建兴二年，诸葛恪征淮南，后所坐听事栋中折。
恪妄兴征役，夺农时，作邪谋，伤国财力，故木失其性致毁折也。
及旋师而诛灭，于《周易》又为 栋挠之凶 也。
武帝太康五年五月，宣帝庙地陷，梁折。
八年正月，太庙殿又陷，改作庙，筑基及泉。
其年九月，遂更营新庙，远致名材，杂以铜柱，陈勰为匠，作者六万人。
至十年四月乃成，十一月庚寅梁又折。
天戒若曰，地陷者分离之象，梁折者木不曲直也。
明年帝崩，而王室遂乱。
惠帝太安二年，成都王颖使陆机率众向京都，击长沙王乂，及军始引而牙竿折，俄而战败，机被诛，颖遂奔溃，卒赐死。
此奸谋之罚，木不曲直也。
元帝太兴四年，王敦在武昌，铃下仪仗生华如莲华，五六日而萎落。
此木失其性。
干宝以为狂华生枯木，又在铃阁之间，言威仪之富，荣华之盛，皆如狂华之发，不可久也。
其后王敦终以逆命加戮其尸。
一说亦华孽也，于《周易》为 枯杨生华 。
桓玄始篡，龙旂竿折。
时玄田猎无度，饮食奢恣，土木妨农，又多奸谋，故木失其性。
天戒若曰，旂所以挂三辰，章著明也，旂竿之折，高明去矣。
玄果败。
《传》： 弃法津，逐功臣，杀太子，以妾为妻，则火不炎上。
说曰：火，南方，扬光辉为明者也。
其于王者，南面向明而治。
《书》云： 知人则哲，能官人。
translation: 
In February of the next year, Wang Gong became the commander-in-chief of the northern border. In August, Yu Kai became the commander-in-chief of the western border. In September, Wang Huangcha was appointed Zhongshuling, and soon became the general of the army. In the seventeenth year, Yin Zhongkan commanded Jingzhou. Although the evil and the righteous were different, they were all eliminated in the end. This was their sign.
In the second year of Wu Sunliang's reign, Zhuge Ke conquered Huainan, and the beams of the later official halls were broken.
Zhuge Ke increased taxes and corvee at will, violated the farming season, plotted evil schemes, and damaged the country's financial and material resources. Therefore, wood lost its nature and caused damage and breakage.
When he withdrew his troops and returned, he was executed and his clan was exterminated. He was also called "The Fierce of Dong Nao" in the "Book of Changes".
In May of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign in Taikang, the foundation of Emperor Xuan's temple collapsed and the beams were broken.
In the first month of the eighth year, the Imperial Ancestral Temple collapsed again, so the Imperial Ancestral Temple was rebuilt and the foundation and basement were built.
In September of that year, a new temple was rebuilt. Precious wood was found from far away and copper pillars were used. Chen Xie was appointed as the official craftsman, and 60,000 people built it.
It was not completed until April of the 10th year, and the Gengyin beam was broken again in November.
Tian Jie said this: The collapse of the earth is a sign of separation, and the broken beams and columns are a sign of the crookedness of the wood.
Emperor Wu died the next year, and the royal family was in chaos.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, sent Lu Ji and his troops to Kyoto to attack Sima Yi, king of Changsha. The flagpole of the flag broke just after the army was sent out. Soon after, they were defeated. Lu Ji was killed. Sima Ying broke up and fled, and was eventually sentenced to death.
This is punishment for an evil plan, and it has no merit.
In the fourth year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, when Wang Dun was in Wuchang, the ceremonial guard under the bell sprouted flowers like lotus, which withered and fell after five or six days.
Qi Shimu loses his nature.
Qian Bao believes that random flowers grow on dead trees and among bells, which means that the splendor and splendor of majesty are like the growth of random flowers and cannot last long.
After that, Wang Dun was eventually executed for his rebellion.
It is said that it is also a flower evil, in the "Book of Changes" it is "withered poplars and flowers".
When Huan Xuan usurped the throne, the dragon flag pole was broken.
At that time, he lived and farmed excessively, ate extravagantly, carried out large-scale construction projects and hindered the farming season, and had many evil intentions, so he never lost his nature.
Tian Jie said this, the flag is used to hang the sun, moon and stars to show the light. When the flag pole is broken, the light from the high place leaves.
Danxuan was finally defeated.
"The Biography" says: If you abandon the law, drive out the heroes, kill the prince, and take concubines as wives, the fire will not burn.
Explanation: Fire, the south, is a thing that promotes brilliance into light.
For kings, it is to rule facing the southern light.
"Book" says: Knowing people is wise and capable of serving as an official.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故尧舜举群贤而命之朝，远四佞而放诸野。
孔子曰： 浸润之谮，肤受之诉，不行焉，可谓明矣。
贤佞分别，官人有序，帅由旧章，敬重功勋，殊别嫡庶，如此则火得其性矣。
若乃信道不笃，或耀虚伪，谗夫昌，邪胜正，则火失其性矣。
自上而降，及滥炎妄起，焚宗庙，烧宫馆，虽兴师众，不能救也，是为火不炎上。
魏明帝太和五年五月，清商殿灾。
初，帝为平原王，纳河南虞氏为妃。
及即位，不以为后，更立典虞车工卒毛嘉女为后。
后本仄微，非所宜升，以妾为妻之罚也。
青龙元年六月，洛阳宫鞠室灾。
二年四月，崇华殿灾，延于南阁，缮复之。
至三年七月，此殿又灾。
帝问高堂隆： 此何咎也？
于礼宁有祈禳之义乎？
对曰： 夫灾变之发，皆所以明教诫也，惟率礼修德可以胜之。
《易传》曰： 上不俭，下不节，孽火烧其室。 又曰： 君高其台，天火为灾。 此人君苟饰宫室，不知百姓空竭，故天应之以旱，火从高殿起也。
案《旧占》曰： 灾火之发，皆以台榭宫室为诫。
今宜罢散作役，务从节约，清扫所灾之处，不敢于此有所营造，萐莆嘉禾必生此地，以报陛下虔恭之德。
帝不从。
遂复崇华殿，改曰九龙。
以郡国前后言龙见者九，故以为名。
多弃法度，疲众逞欲，以妾为妻之应也。
吴孙亮建兴元年十二月，武昌端门灾，改作，端门又灾。
内殿门者，号令所出；殿者，听政之所。
是时诸葛恪执政，而矜慢放肆，孙峻总禁旅，而险害终著。
武昌，孙氏尊号所始。
translation: 
Therefore, Yao and Shun promoted talented people and appointed them as officials in the court. They kept away from the four treacherous people and exiled them into the wilderness.
Confucius said: Gradually deepening slander and untruthful slander have no effect, and can be called enlightenment.
Separate wise people from those who love evil, appoint officials according to the law, commanders should follow the old law, respect and cherish those who have made meritorious deeds, and distinguish between the descendants of direct descendants and descendants of concubines. By doing so, fire will acquire its true nature.
If one believes in the Tao but is not sincere, or if falsehood and deceit prevail, and slanderous people gain power, and evil prevails over integrity, fire will lose its nature.
From above, a raging fire broke out, burning the ancestral temple and burning down the palace. Even if the troops were mobilized, they could not save it, so the fire did not burn up.
In May of the fifth year of Taihe reign of Emperor Wei Ming, the Qing Shang Palace suffered a fire.
At the beginning, Emperor Wei Ming was the king of Pingyuan and accepted the Yu family of Henan as his concubine.
When he ascended the throne as emperor, he did not make her the queen. Instead, he made the daughter of Dian Yu's lathe worker Zhu Nuotai the queen.
The queen had a low status and should not be promoted to queen. This was the punishment for taking a concubine as a wife.
In June of the first year of Qinglong, there was a fire in the Ju room of Luoyang Palace.
In April of the second year, the fire in Chonghua Hall spread to Nanhe, where it was repaired and restored.
In July of the third year, the temple caught fire again.
Emperor Wei Ming asked Gao Tanglong: What is wrong with dispatch?
Is there any etiquette for praying for blessings and warding off disasters?
He replied: The occurrence of disasters is to show teachings and punishments. Only by following etiquette and cultivating virtue can we overcome it.
"Yi Zhuan" said: If the superiors are not diligent and frugal, and the subordinates are not thrifty, sinful fire will burn down their houses. It also says: If the king builds his tower high, fire will cause disaster. This is because the king blindly decorates the palace and does not know that the people are exhausted. Therefore, God fulfilled it with drought and the fire started from the high palace.
According to "Jiu Zhan", when fires occur, the Taixie Palace Rooms are used as punishment.
Now we should stop working hard, practice economy, clean up the disaster-stricken areas, and do not dare to build any more in the area. The grass and rice that symbolize Ji Rui will definitely grow here to repay His Majesty's pious and respectful virtues.
Emperor Ming didn't listen.
So Chonghua Hall was restored and renamed Jiulong.
Because each county claimed that a dragon appeared nine times, it was named after it.
This is a sign of abandoning the law, exhausting the people to satisfy their own desires, and taking concubines as wives.
In December of the first year of Jianxing reign of Wu Sunliang, a fire broke out at Duanmen in Wuchang. After reconstruction, Duanmen caught fire again.
The gate of the inner palace is where orders come from; the palace is where government is listened to.
During the period of time, Zhuge Ke was in power, arrogant and unrestrained, and even inferior to the general in charge of the imperial guards. However, the dangers and dangers finally appeared.
Gengyu is the place where Jueyao established his country and proclaimed himself emperor.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
天戒若曰，宜除其贵要之首者，恪果丧众殄人，峻授政于綝，綝废亮也。
或曰，孙权毁撤武昌以增太初宫，诸葛恪有迁都意，更起门殿，事非时宜，故见灾也。
京房《易传》曰： 君不思道，厥妖火烧宫。
太平元年二月朔，建鄴火，人之火也。
是秋，孙綝始执政，矫以亮诏杀吕据、滕胤。
明年，又辄杀硃异。
弃法律逐功臣之罚也。
孙休永安五年二月，城西门北楼灾。
六年十月，石头小城火，烧西南百八十丈。
是时嬖人张布专擅国势，多行无礼，而韦昭、盛冲终斥不用，兼遣察战等为内史，惊扰州郡，致使交止反乱，是其咎也。
孙皓建衡二年三月，大火，烧万余家，死者七百人。
案《春秋》齐大灾，刘向以为桓公好内，听女口，妻妾数更之罚也。
时皓制令诡暴，荡弃法度，劳臣名士，诛斥甚众，后宫万余，女谒数行，其中隆宠佩皇后玺绶者又多矣，故有大火。
武帝太康八年三月乙丑，震灾西阁楚王所止坊及临商观窗。
十年四月癸丑，崇贤殿灾。
十一月庚辰，含章鞠室、修成堂前庑、景坊东屋、晖章殿南阁火。
时有上书曰： 汉王氏五侯，兄弟迭任，今杨氏三公，并在大位，故天变屡见，窃为陛下忧之。
由是杨珧求退。
是时帝纳冯紞之间，废张华之功，听杨骏之谗，离卫瓘之宠，此逐功臣之罚也。
明年，宫车宴驾。
其后楚王承窃发之旨，戮害二公，身亦不免。
震灾其坊，又天意乎。
惠帝元康五年闰月庚寅，武库火。
张华疑有乱，先命固守，然后救火。
是以累代异宝，王莽头，孔子屐，汉高祖断白蛇剑及二百八万器械，一时荡尽。
是后愍怀太子见杀之罚也。
translation: 
Yaojie said that the leaders of high-ranking officials should be removed. As expected, Zhuge Ke lost his followers and harmed the people. He handed over the power to Xun Jin and deposed Qiangtai.
Another theory is that Sun Quan abandoned Wuchang to build the Taichu Palace, and Zhuge Ke had the idea of ​​​​moving the capital and built another gate palace. Things were not at the right time, so there was a fire.
Saijuan's "Book of Changes" says: If the king does not think about morality, evil fire will burn down the palace.
On the first day of February in the first year of Taiping, a fire broke out in Jianye. It was a man-made fire.
In the autumn of Qian Nian, Sun Lin came to power and used Sun Liang's edict to kill Danxu and Zhuihuang.
The next year, he was good at killing Sai Mo again.
This is the punishment for expelling heroes who violate the law.
In February of the fifth year of Yong'an reign of Sun Xiu, a fire broke out in the north tower of the west gate of the city.
In October of the sixth year, the small stone town caught fire, burning 180 feet to the southwest.
Zhang Bu, who was favored during the Japanese period, acted arbitrarily in state affairs and did many rude things. However, he was dismissed as a child and was dismissed in the end. He also sent Se Yan and others as internal historians to harass various states and counties, causing shameful rebellions, which was a disaster.
In March of the second year of Sun Hao's Jianheng reign, a fire burned more than 10,000 homes and killed 700 people.
"Spring and Autumn" tells about the great fire in Qi. Liu Xiang believed that it was because Duke Huan loved the inner chamber, obeyed women, and changed his wives and concubines many times as a punishment.
At that time, the law of Youbi was insidious and cruel, completely abandoning the law. Many ministers and virtuous people were killed and denounced. There were more than ten thousand people in the harem, and there were many queues of female officials who obeyed the orders. Among them, there were many who were especially fond of wearing the Queen's seal and ribbon, so there was a big fire.
In March of the eighth year of Emperor Wu's Taikang reign (Yichou), an earthquake and fire burned down the viewing window of Fanghe Linshang where the King of Chu lived in Xihe.
In April of the tenth year of Guichou, there was a fire in Chongxian Hall.
In the Gengchen period of November, there was a fire in the Hanzhang Ju Room, Xiucheng Hall Qianlian, Jingfang East Room, and Huizhang Hall Nanhe.
At that time, there was a report saying: The brothers of the five princes of the Han Dynasty held office one after another, and now the three princes of the Yang family are all in high positions. Therefore, there have been many disasters in heaven, and I am privately worried about this matter for your majesty.
Therefore, Yang Yao requested to resign.
Emperor Wu of the time listened to Feng You's instigation, abolished Zhang Hua's achievements, listened to Yang Jun's slander, and stopped doting on Wei Cui. This was a punishment for belittling the meritorious officials.
The next year, the emperor died.
After that, the King of Chu followed the secretly conveyed decree and killed the two princes, and he himself was not spared.
It must have been God's will that the earthquake destroyed his workshop.
In the leap month of Gengyin in the fifth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, a fire broke out in the military supplies warehouse.
Zhang Hua suspected that there was something wrong and ordered him to hold on. Then put out the fire.
Therefore, the rare treasures of the past dynasties, such as Wang Mangtou, Confucius' clog, Mo Gaozu's White Snake Sword and the instruments used by two million people, were all gone for a while.
This was the punishment for the later murder of Prince Huai.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
天戒若曰，夫设险击柝，所以固其国，储积戒器，所以戒不虞。
今冢嗣将倾，社稷将泯，禁兵无所复施，皇旅又将谁卫。
帝后不悟，终丧四海，是其应也。
张华、阎纂皆曰，武库火而氐羌反，太子见废，则四海可知。
八年十一月，高原陵火。
是时贾后凶恣，贾谧擅朝，恶积罪稔，宜见诛绝。
天戒若曰，臣妾之不可者，虽亲贵莫比，犹宜忍而诛之，如吾燔高原陵也。
帝既眊弱，而张华又不纳裴頠、刘卞之谋，故后遂与谧杀太子也。
干宝以为 高原陵火，太子废之应。
汉武帝世，高园便殿火，董仲舒对与此占同 。
永康元年，帝纳皇后羊氏，后将入宫，衣中忽有火，众咸怪之。
永兴元年，成都王遂废后，处之金墉城。
是后还立，立而复废者四。
又诏赐死，荀籓表全之。
虽来还在位，然忧逼折辱，终古未闻。
此孽火之应也。
永兴二年七月甲午，尚书诸曹火起，延崇礼闼及阁道。
夫百揆王化之本，王者弃法津之应也。
后清河王覃入嗣，不终于位，又杀太子之罚也。
孝怀帝永嘉四年十一月，襄阳火，烧死者三千余人。
是时王如自号大将军、司雍二州牧，众四五万，攻略郡县。
此下陵上，阳失其节之应也。
元帝太兴中，王敦镇武昌，武昌灾，火起，兴众救之，救于此而发于彼，东西南北数十处俱应，数日不绝。
旧说所谓 滥炎妄起，虽兴师众，不能救之 之谓也。
干宝以为 此臣而君行，亢阳失节，是为王敦陵上，有无君之心，故灾也。
永昌二年正月癸巳，京师大火。
三月，饶安、东光、安陵三县火，烧七千余家，死者万五千人。
translation: 
Tian Jie said that the purpose of setting up guards in dangerous places is to protect the country, and the purpose of stockpiling weapons is to prepare for unexpected situations.
Now that the country is about to overthrow, the country is about to perish, and the imperial guards have nowhere to go, who will the royal army defend?
The emperor and the empress did not wake up and finally lost the world. This was a sign.
Zhang Hua and Jian Zhuan both said that if the military supplies warehouse caught fire, the Di and Qiang rebelled, and the prince was deposed, then the situation in the world could be predicted.
In November of the eighth year, Gaoyuan Mausoleum caught fire.
When he was sent and bought, he was vicious and wanton, and Jia Mi was arbitrary in the government. His crimes were serious and he should be killed.
Heaven's commandment says that the bad ones among the concubines, even if they are extremely intimate and noble, should still suppress their emotions and punish them, just like the heaven burning the mausoleums on the plateau.
Emperor Hui was stupid and cowardly, and Zhang Hua did not adopt the strategies of Pei Hao and Liu Bian, so Empress Jia and Jia Mi killed the prince.
Qian Bao believed that the fire in Gaoyuan Mausoleum was a sign that the prince would be deposed.
During the reign of Emperor Mowu, a fire broke out in the banquet hall of Gaoyuan, and Dong Zhongshu responded in the same way.
In the first year of Yongkang, Emperor Hui married Queen Yang. When the Queen was about to enter the palace, there was a fire in her clothes. Everyone was surprised.
In the first year of Yongxing, the king of Chengdu deposed the queen and asked her to live in Jinyong City.
After that, he was re-established and then deposed, a total of four times.
Then Shao ordered her to die, and Xun Fan sent a memorial to preserve her.
Although she came back to restore her position as queen, such persecution and humiliation has never been heard of since ancient times.
This is a sign of evil fire.
In the seventh month of the second year of Yongxing, fires broke out all over Shangshu Province and spread to Chongli Gui and Pavilion Road.
Officials are the foundation of education and a sign that the king has abandoned the law.
Later, Sima Tan, the king of Qinghe, entered the palace and succeeded to the throne. If he did not die well on the throne, it was also the punishment for killing the prince.
In November of the fourth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, a fire broke out in Xiangyan, killing more than 3,000 people.
At that time, Wang Dian claimed to be a general and the shepherd of Siyong and the two prefectures. He had a tribe of 40,000 to 50,000 people and captured the counties.
This is a sign that the Yang Qi is out of control.
During the Taixing period of Emperor Yuan, Wang Dun was guarding Wuchang. Wuchang was hit by a fire. The fire broke out and the people were asked to put out the fire. After saving the fire, it started elsewhere. Fires broke out in dozens of places in the east, west, south, and north, and they continued for several days.
This is the old saying that a raging fire can't be extinguished even if the troops are mobilized.
Wang Xuan believes that this is the behavior of a minister acting like a king, and the Yang Qi is out of control. It is because Wang Dun bullies his superiors and has the heart to ignore the king, so there is fire.
In the first month of the second year of Yongchang, there was a big fire in Kyoto.
In March, fires broke out in Rao'an, Dongguang and Anling counties, burning more than 7,000 homes and killing 15,000 people.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
明帝太宁元年正月，京都火。
是时王敦威侮朝廷，多行无礼，内外臣下咸怀怨毒，极阴生阳也。
成帝咸和二年五月，京师火。
康帝建元元年七月庚申，吴郡灾。
穆帝永和五年六月，震灾石季龙太武殿及两庙端门。
震灾月余乃灭，金石皆尽。
其后季龙死，大乱，遂灭亡。
海西公太和中，郗愔为会稽太守。
六月大旱灾，火烧数千家。延及山阴仓米数百万斛，炎烟蔽天，不可扑灭。
此亦桓温强盛，将废海西，极阴生阳之应也。
孝武帝宁康元年三月，京师风火大起。
是时桓温入朝，志在陵上，少主践位，人怀忧恐，此与太宁火事同。
太元十年正月，国子学生因风放火，焚房百余间。
是后考课不厉，赏黜无章。
盖有育才之名，而无收贤之实，此不哲之罚先兆也。
十三年十二月乙未，延贤堂灾。
是月丙申，螽斯则百堂及客馆、骠骑府库皆灾。
于时朝多弊政，衰陵日兆，不哲之罚，皆有象类。主相不悟，终至乱亡。
会稽王道子宠幸尼及姏母，各树用其亲戚，乃至出入宫掖，礼见人主。
天戒若曰，登延贤堂及客馆者多非其人，故灾之也。
又，孝武帝更不立皇后，宠幸微贱张夫人，夫人骄妒，皇子不繁，乖 螽斯则百 之道，故灾其殿焉。
道子复赏赐不节，故府库被灾，斯亦其罚也。
安帝隆安二年三月，龙舟二乘灾，是水沴火也。
其后桓玄篡位，帝乃播越。
天戒若曰，王者流迁，不复御龙舟，故灾之耳。
元兴元年八月庚子，尚书下舍曹火。
时桓玄遥录尚书，故天火，示不复居也。
三年，卢循攻略广州，刺史吴隐之闭城固守。
其十月壬戌夜，火起。
时百姓避寇盈满城内，隐之惧有应贼者，但务严兵，不先救火。
由是府舍焚荡，烧死者万余人，因遂散溃，悉为贼擒。
义熙四年七月丁酉，尚书殿中吏部曹火。
九年，京都大火，烧数千家。
十一年，京都所在大行火灾，吴界尤甚。
火防甚峻，犹自不绝。
王弘时为吴郡，昼在听事，见天上有一赤物下，状如信幡，遥集路南人家屋上，火即大发。
弘知天为之灾，故不罪火主。
translation: 
In the first month of the first year of Emperor Taining's reign, a fire broke out in Kyoto.
At this time, Wang Dun invaded and insulted the imperial court, and most of his actions were very rude. All the ministers inside and outside the imperial court were resentful and angry, which was extremely yin and yang.
In May of the second year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, the capital caught fire.
In July of the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, there was a fire in Wujun.
In June of the fifth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, an earthquake and fire destroyed Dongzhuzhan Hall and the end gates of the two temples.
It took more than a month for the earthquake and fire to be extinguished, and all the gold and stone were burned down.
This year Shi Jilong died, and there was great chaos and soon perished.
During the reign of Haixi Gongtaihe, Xi Min was appointed as the prefect of Kuaiji.
In June, there was a severe drought and fires burned thousands of homes, spread and burned millions of rice in Shanyin warehouse. The flames and smoke covered the sky and could not be extinguished.
It is also a sign that the Zunyou Basin will be destroyed because of its excessive yin and yang.
In March of the first year of Ningkang, Emperor Xiaowu, a strong wind and fire broke out in the capital.
At this time, Huan Wen entered the court, aiming to usurp the throne, and the young monarch ascended the throne. People were worried and fearful, and sent him the same thing as the fire in the Taining period.
In the first month of the tenth year of Taiyuan, students from the Imperial College took advantage of the wind and set fire to more than a hundred houses.
Since then, examination verification has been lax, and rewards and punishments have been haphazard.
It has the reputation of nurturing talents but does not actually recruit talents. This is a harbinger of punishment for the unworthy.
At the end of December of the thirteenth year, a fire broke out in Yanxian Hall.
In Bingshen of the same month, fire broke out in Baitang, the guest house, and the Huqi treasury.
At that time, there were many shortcomings in the government, and the decline became more and more obvious. There were signs of punishment for unwise people. The monarch and his ministers did not wake up, and they eventually fell.
Prince Daozi of Kuaiji favored nuns and elderly women, and each appointed his relatives to go to and from the palace to pay homage to the monarch.
Tian Jie said that most of the people who boarded Yanxian Hall and the guest house were people who should not have entered the banquet, so they suffered from fire.
Moreover, Emperor Xiaowu did not establish a queen, but favored the lowly and lowly Mrs. Zhang. Mrs. Zhang was arrogant and jealous, and there were not many princes. She violated the principle of "Katydids are responsible for hundreds of evil spirits" mentioned in the Book of Songs, so his palace suffered a fire.
Daozi also rewarded too much, so the treasury was burned down, and sending him away was also his punishment.
In March of the second year of Emperor Long'an, two dragon boats caught fire. This was a sign of water defeating fire.
After that, Huan Xuan usurped the throne and Emperor An went into exile.
Tian Jie said this: The king was in exile and could no longer ride on the dragon boat, so he suffered a fire.
In the eighth month of the first year of Yuanxing, there was a fire in Shangshu's official office.
At this time, Huan Xuanyao led the minister to record, so the sky rained down fire to indicate that he could not stay any longer.
In the third year, Lu Xun attacked Guangzhou, and Wu Yinzhi, the governor, closed the city gates and held on.
On the night of Renxu in October, a fire broke out.
At that time, the people were hiding from the bandits and crowded into the city. He was afraid that there would be people who could help the bandits, so he tried his best to clean up the army without putting out the fire first.
Therefore, the palace buildings were burned down, and more than 10,000 people were burned to death. Then the people fled in all directions, and they were all captured by the bandits.
In the seventh month of the fourth year of Yixi, there was a fire in the official office of the Ministry of Finance in the Provincial Hall of the Minister of Finance.
In the ninth year, a fire broke out in Kyoto, burning thousands of families.
In the eleventh year, fires raged in the Kyoto area, especially in Wu territory.
Fire prevention is very strict and cannot be eliminated.
Wang Hong was serving in Wu County at that time and was handling political affairs in the government office during the day. He saw a red object coming down from the sky, shaped like a flag, and quickly landed on the roof of a house in the south of the road, causing a fire.
Wang Hong knew that the fire was caused by heaven, so he did not punish the owner of the fire.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
此帝室衰微之应也。
《传》曰： 修宫室，饰台榭，内淫乱，犯亲戚，侮兄弟，则稼穑不成。
说曰：土，中央，生万物者也。
其于王者，为内事，宫室、夫妇、亲属，亦相生者也。
古者天子诸侯，宫庙大小高卑有制，后夫人媵妾多少有度，九族亲疏长幼有序。
孔子曰： 礼，与其奢也，宁俭。
故禹卑宫室，文王刑于寡妻，此圣人之所以昭教化也。
如此，则土得其性矣。
若乃奢淫骄慢，则土失其性。
亡水旱之灾而草木百谷不熟，是为稼穑不成。
吴孙皓时，常岁无水旱，苗稼丰美而实不成，百姓以饥，阖境皆然，连岁不已。
吴人以为伤露，非也。
案刘向《春秋说》曰 水旱当书，不书水旱而曰大无麦禾者，土气不养，稼穑不成 ，此其义也。
皓初迁都武昌，寻还建鄴，又起新馆，缀饰珠玉，壮丽过甚，破坏诸营，增广苑囿，犯暑妨农，官私疲怠。
《月令》，季夏不可以兴土功，皓皆冒之。
此修宫室饰台榭之罚也。
元帝太兴二年，吴郡、吴兴、东阳无麦禾，大饥。
成帝咸和五年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
穆帝永和十年，三麦不登。
十二年，大无麦。
孝武太元六年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
安帝元兴元年，无麦禾，天下大饥。
《传》曰： 好战攻，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，则金不从革。
说曰：金，西方，万物既成，杀气之始也。
故立秋而鹰隼击，秋分而微霜降。
其于王事，出军行师，把旄杖钺，誓士众，抗威武，所以征叛逆，止暴乱也。
《诗》云： 有虔执钺，如火烈烈。
translation: 
This is a sign of the decline and fall of the imperial family.
"The Biography" says: If you build palaces, decorate pavilions, engage in sexual immorality at home, bully your relatives, and insult your father and elder brothers, your crops will not be harvested.
Explanation: Earth, in the center, is the source of all things.
For the king, it is internal affairs, and the palace, husband and wife, and relatives also have a mutual relationship.
In ancient times, for the emperors and princes, there were regulations on the size of palaces and temples, there were certain limits on the number of queens, wives, and concubines, and the elders and younger relatives of the nine tribes had their own etiquette.
Confucius said: It is better to be frugal than to be extravagant in etiquette.
Therefore, Yu built a low palace and King Wen showed it to future generations. This was a way for the saint to declare his enlightenment.
By doing this, the earth will acquire its true nature.
If it is luxurious, licentious, arrogant and arrogant, earth will lose its nature.
There are no floods or droughts, but the vegetation and grains are all immature, which means there is no harvest.
During Wu Sunhao's time, there were no floods or droughts in normal years. The crops grew well but there was no food. As a result, the people suffered from hunger. This was the case throughout the territory, year after year.
People in Wu thought it was caused by dew, but it wasn't.
Liu Xiang's "Chun Qiu Shuo" said that floods and droughts should be recorded. If floods and droughts are not recorded and there is no wheat, it means that the soil is not nourishing and the crops will not be successful. This is the reason.
Sun Hao initially moved the capital to Wuchang, but soon returned to Jianye. He built new buildings, decorated with jewels and jade, which were extremely magnificent. He destroyed the camps, expanded the palaces and gardens, hindered the farming season, harmed the farmers, and the government and the people were tired and slack.
According to the "Moon Order", no large-scale construction work can be carried out in late summer, and Sun Hao was offended.
This is a punishment for building decorative terraces and pavilions in palaces.
In the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, there was no wheat in Wujun, Wuxing, and Shuyang, and there was a severe famine.
In the fifth year of Emperor Xianhe's reign, there were no wheat seedlings and there was a great famine in the world.
In the tenth year of Emperor Mu's reign, the three crops of wheat were not ripe.
For twelve years, there was no wheat in a large area.
In the sixth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, there was no wheat and there was a great famine in the world.
In the first year of Emperor An's Yuanxing, there was no wheat and there was a great famine in the world.
"The Biography" says: If he likes war and attack, despises the people, repairs the city walls, and invades the borders, Jin will not follow the revolution.
Explanation: Gold, the west, all things have grown up, which is the beginning of murderous intent.
Therefore, hawks and falcons hunt after the beginning of autumn, and light frost falls after the autumnal equinox.
The king's business is to mobilize the army, hold the flag, fight with ax and iron, swear an oath to the soldiers, and inspire the power to conquer the rebellious traitors and stop the rebellion.
"The Book of Songs" says: Holding the axe mightily, it is as prosperous as fire.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又曰： 载戢干戈，载橐弓矢。
动静应宜，说以犯难，人忘其死，金得其性矣。
若乃贪欲恣睢，务立威胜，不重人命，则金失其性。
盖工冶铸金铁，冰滞涸坚，不成者众，乃为变怪，是为金不从革。
魏时张掖石瑞，虽是晋之符命，而于魏为妖。
好攻战，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，魏氏三祖皆有其事。
石图发于非常之文，此不从革之异也。
晋定大业，多毙曹氏，石瑞文 大讨曹 之应也。
案刘歆以《春秋》石言于晋，为金石同类也，是为金不从革，失其性也，刘向以为石白色为主，属白祥。
魏明帝青龙中，盛修宫室，西取长安金狄，承露槃折，声闻数十里，金狄泣，于是因留霸城。
此金失其性而为异也。
吴时，历阳县有岩穿，似印，咸云 石印封发，天下太平 。
孙皓天玺元年，印发。
又，阳羡山有石穴，长十余丈。
皓初修武昌宫，有迁都之意。
是时武昌为离宫。
班固云 离宫与城郭同占 ，饰城郭之谓也。
其宝鼎三年后，皓出东关，遣丁奉至合肥，建衡三年皓又大举出华里，侵边境之谓也。
故令金失其性，卒面缚而吴亡。
惠帝元康三年闰二月，殿前六钟皆出涕，五刻止。
前年贾后杀杨太后于金墉城，而贾后为恶不止，故钟出涕，犹伤之也。
永兴元年，成都伐长沙，每夜戈戟锋有火光如悬烛。
此轻人命，好攻战，金失其性而为光变也。
天戒若曰，兵犹火也，不戢将自焚。
成都不悟，终以败亡。
怀帝永嘉元年，项县有魏豫州刺史贾逵石碑，生金可采，此金不从革而为变也。
五月，汲桑作乱，群寇飙起。
清河王覃为世子时，所佩金铃忽生起如粟者，康王母疑不祥，毁弃之。
及后为惠帝太子，不终于位，卒为司马越所杀。
愍帝建兴五年，石言于平阳。
是时帝蒙尘亦在平阳，故有非言之物而言，妖之大者。
俄而帝为逆胡所弑。
元帝永昌元年，甘卓将袭王敦，既而中止。
translation: 
He also said: Put away your weapons and put your bows and arrows in your bag.
Movement and stillness are appropriate, and dangers are met happily. People forget about death, and gold has its nature.
If greed is indulged, blindly establishing prestige and victory, and not paying attention to life, gold will lose its nature.
As craftsmen smelt and cast gold and iron, the coldness, condensation, dryness and hardness caused many of them to become mutated monsters, making the metal unable to follow the leather.
During the Wei Dynasty, Zhangye's stone was auspicious. Although it was the talisman of Jin, it was a monster to Wei.
They like to attack and fight, ignore the people, build cities, and invade borders. The three ancestors of the Wei family all had such things.
The stone map shows unusual pictures and texts, which is the weirdness of Jin Bu Congge.
The great cause of the Jin Dynasty and the killing of many Cao family members were a sign of Shi Rui's graphic and written campaign against Cao Cao family.
Liu Xin believes that when "Spring and Autumn" mentions stone in the Jin Dynasty, it is the same kind as metal and stone. This is because metal does not follow the rules and loses its nature. Liu Xiang believes that the stone is mainly white and belongs to Baixiang.
During the Qinglong period of Emperor Ming of Wei Dynasty, he renovated the palace on a large scale. He went west to get the bronze statue of Chang'an. The dew plate broke and the sound spread for ten miles. The bronze statue shed tears, so he stayed in Bacheng.
This is when gold loses its nature and becomes weird.
During the Wu Dynasty, there was a rock in Liyang County with a seal, and it was said that if the stone seal is unsealed, the world will be at peace.
In the first year of Sun Hao's Tianxi, the seal was opened.
Also, there is a stone cave on Yangxian Mountain, which is more than ten feet long.
Sun Hao initially built Wuchang Palace and had the idea of ​​moving the capital.
During the Han Dynasty, Wuchang was the Ligong Palace.
Ban Gu said that the divination of leaving the palace is the same as that of the city, which refers to the construction of the city.
Three years after Xuan Gu, Qiangbi left the Sai League and sent workers to Jinfei. In the third year of Jianman, Sun Hao left China on a large scale, which can be called a border invasion.
Therefore, Jin lost his nature, eventually tied his arms and surrendered, and the Wu Kingdom perished.
In the second month of the third year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, all the six bells in front of the palace shed tears and stopped after five quarters.
The previous year, Mai Li killed Jin Shanqiu after disturbing the situation, but Mai Hou continued to do evil, so Zhong shed tears and seemed to be sad about this.
In the first year of Yongxing, King Shengdu attacked the Kenye workers. Every night, the blade of the halberd shone like a hanging candle.
This is to ignore human life and like to attack and fight. Metal loses its nature and changes in light.
Tian Jie said this, soldiers are like fire. If you don't restrain yourself, you will burn yourself.
The King of Chengdu did not wake up and finally failed and perished.
In the first year of Emperor Huai's Yongjia reign, there was a stone tablet of Jia Kui, the governor of Wei Yuzhou, in Xiang County. The gold produced could be harvested. This was because the gold was mutated because it was not produced.
In May, chaos broke out in Jisang, and many bandits broke out.
When Sima Qin, King of Qinghe, was the heir apparent, the golden bell he was wearing suddenly produced something like millet. King Kang's mother suspected that it was unlucky, so she destroyed it and threw it away.
The prince who later became Emperor Hui did not die well on the throne and was eventually killed by Sima Yue.
In the fifth year of Emperor Min's reign, there were stones talking in Pingyang.
Emperor Min of Japan was also in trouble in Pingyang, so something that couldn't speak spoke, and it was a big monster.
Soon Emperor Min was killed by the rebellious Hu people.
In the first year of Emperor Yongchang of the Yuan Dynasty, Ganzhuo prepared to attack Wangdun, but stopped midway.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
及还，家多变怪，照镜不见其头。
此金失其性而为妖也。
寻为敦所袭，遂夷灭。
石季龙时，鄴城凤阳门上金凤皇二头飞入漳河。
海西太和中，会稽山阴县起仓，凿地得两大船，满中钱，钱皆轮文大形。
时日向暮，凿者驰以告官，官夜遣防守甚严。
至明旦，失钱所在，惟有船存。
视其状，悉有钱处。
安帝义熙初，东阳太守殷仲文照镜不见其头，寻亦诛翦，占与甘卓同也。
《传》曰： 简宗庙，不祷祠，废祭祀，逆天时，则水不润下。
说曰：水，北方，终藏万物者也。
其于人道，命终而形藏，精神放越。
圣人为之宗庙，以收魂气，春秋祭祀，以终孝道。
王者即位，必郊祀天地，祷祈神祇，望秩山川，怀柔百神，亡不宗事。
慎其斋戒，致其严敬，是故鬼神歆飨，多获福助。
此圣王所以顺事阴气，和神人也。
及至发号施令，亦奉天时。
十二月咸得其气，则阴阳调而终始成。
如此，则水得其性矣。
若乃不敬鬼神，政令逆时，水失其性。
雾水暴出，百川逆溢，坏乡邑，溺人民，及淫雨伤稼穑，是为水不润下。
京房《易传》曰： 颛事者加，诛罚绝理，厥灾水。
其水也，雨，杀人，以陨霜，大风天黄。
饥而不损，兹谓泰，厥大水，水杀人。
避遏有德，兹谓狂，厥水，水流杀人也。
已水则地生虫。
归狱不解，兹谓追非，厥水寒，杀人。
追诛不解，兹谓不理，厥水五谷不收。
大败不解，兹谓皆阴，厥水流入国邑，陨霜杀谷。
董仲舒曰： 交兵结仇，伏尸流血，百姓愁怨，阴气盛，故大水也。
魏文帝黄初四年六月，大雨霖，伊洛溢，至津阳城门，漂数千家，杀人。
translation: 
When I returned, there were many strange things happening at home, and I couldn't see my head when I looked in the mirror.
This is when gold loses its nature and becomes a demon.
Soon he was attacked by Wang Dun and was executed.
During the reign of Shi Jilong, there were two golden phoenixes flying in and out of Fengyang Gate in Yecheng.
During the Taihe period of Haixi Gong, a warehouse was built in Shanyin County, Kuaiji, and two large ships were obtained by digging in the ground, filled with money, and the money was all in the shape of a wheel.
It was near dusk at that time, and the excavators hurried to report to the government, who sent people to strictly guard the site overnight.
At dawn, the money was nowhere to be found, only the boat was still there.
Looking at the shape, there is money.
In the early years of Yixi reign of Emperor An, Yin Zhongwen, the prefect of Dongyang, could not see his head when he looked in the mirror. He was also executed soon after, with the same occupation as Gan Zhuo.
"Biography" says: If you treat the ancestral temple slowly, do not offer sacrifices in the temple, neglect the sacrifices, and go against the weather, the water will not flow down.
Explanation: Water, north, is the place where all things are collected.
For humanity, life ends and the body is collected, while the spirit is left free.
The saints established ancestral temples to collect soul energy and offered sacrifices in the Spring and Autumn Period to fulfill their filial piety.
When a king ascends the throne, he must offer sacrifices to the heaven and earth in the countryside, pray to the gods, look at the mountains and rivers, and obey all the gods, all of which are respected.
Fast carefully to express reverence, so ghosts and gods can receive blessings by enjoying their sacrifices.
The sage king was created to obey the yin energy and be in harmony with gods and men.
As for giving orders, we must also respect the timing of heaven.
Each of the twelve months has its own energy, and the yin and yang will be harmonious and start and end well.
Like this, water gets its nature.
If ghosts and gods are not respected and government orders go against the current situation, water will lose its nature.
The vast floods surged, the rivers overflowed, destroyed the countryside, drowned the people, and the continuous rain damaged the crops. This was because the water was not flowing smoothly.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If the dictator invades and punishes unreasonably, he will suffer from floods.
Its water is rain, killing people, frost, strong wind and yellow sky.
Famine does not cause harm. It is called Tai. There are floods, and water kills people.
Those who stay away from obstacles and have virtue are called madness. They have water, and the current kills people.
When there is water, insects will grow on the ground.
He blamed people more than once, and sent people to call him Zhui Fei. His water was cold and he killed people.
The persecution and killings continued, and the orders were ignored, so that the crops could not be harvested.
The defeat continues, this is called Yin, its water flows into the country's borders, and frost damages the grains.
Dong Zhongshu said: There are wars and enemies, corpses are bleeding, the people are grieved, and Yin energy is strong, so there are floods.
In June of the fourth year of the reign of Emperor Wen of Wei, there was continuous heavy rain. The Yishui River and the Luo River overflowed, reaching the city gate of Jinyang, destroying thousands of homes and drowning people.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
初，帝即位，自鄴迁洛，营造宫室，而不起宗庙。
太祖神主犹在鄴，尝于建始殿飨祭如家人礼，终黄初不复还鄴。
又郊社神祇，未有定位。
此简宗庙废祭祀之罚也。
吴孙权赤乌八年夏，茶陵县鸿水溢出，漂二百余家。
十三年秋，丹阳、故鄣等县又鸿水溢出。
案权称帝三十年，竟不于建鄴创七庙。
惟父坚一庙远在长沙，而郊祀礼阙。
嘉禾初，群臣奏宜郊祀，又不许。
末年虽一南郊，而北郊遂无闻焉。
吴楚之望亦不见秩，反祀罗阳妖神，以求福助。
天戒若曰，权简宗庙，不祷祠，废祭祀，故示此罚，欲其感悟也。
太元元年，吴又有大风涌水之异。
是冬，权南郊，宜是鉴咎征乎！
还而寝疾，明年四月薨。
一曰，权时信纳谮诉，虽陆逊勋重，子和储贰，犹不得其终，与汉安帝听谗免杨震、废太子同事也。
且赤乌中无年不用兵，百姓愁怨。
八年秋，将军马茂等又图逆。
魏明帝景初元年九月，淫雨，冀、兗、徐、豫四州水出，没溺杀人，漂失财产。
帝自初即位，便淫奢极欲，多占幼女，或夺士妻，崇饰宫室，妨害农战，触情恣欲，至是弥甚，号令逆时，饥不损役。
此水不润下之应也。
吴孙亮五凤元年夏，大水。
亮即位四年，乃立权庙。
又终吴世不上祖宗之号，不修严父之礼，昭穆之数有阙。
亮及休、皓又并废二郊，不秩群神。
此简宗庙不祭祀之罚也。
又，是时孙峻专政，阴胜阳之应乎！
translation: 
When Emperor Wen ascended the throne, he moved from Ye to Luo and built palaces but not ancestral temples.
The Lord Taizu was still in Ye. He used to hold feasts in the Jianshi Hall, just like family rituals, but he did not return to Ye again until the end of the Huangchu reign.
There is no place for worshiping gods in the suburbs.
This is a punishment for neglecting the ancestral temple and neglecting the sacrifices.
In the summer of the eighth year of Wu Sunquan's Chiwu reign, floods in Chaling County overflowed, destroying more than 200 houses.
In the autumn of the 13th year, floods surged again in Danyang, Guzhang and other counties.
Thirty years after Sun Quan became emperor, he did not build seven temples in Ye.
There is only one temple belonging to his father, Sun Jian, far away in Changsha, and the rituals of suburban sacrifices are also lacking.
In the early years of Jiahe, the officials requested that a suburban sacrifice be held, but they refused.
Although one was held in the southern suburbs at the end of the year, the northern suburbs had never heard of it.
The Wangjis in the land of Wu and Chu did not see sacrifices in sequence. Instead, they worshiped the Luoyang demon god to seek blessings.
Tian Jie said this: Sun Quan neglected the ancestral temple, did not pray for blessings in the shrine, and neglected the sacrifices. Therefore, this kind of punishment was shown to make him realize.
In the first year of Taiyuan, there was another mutation of strong wind and water.
In the winter of that year, Sun Quan held a ceremony to worship heaven in the southern suburbs. He must have seen signs of punishment for his crime!
After returning, he became ill in bed and died in April of the following year.
One theory is that Sun Quan often listened to slanderous rumors. Although Lu Xun had outstanding achievements and his son Sun He was the prince, he still did not get a good death. This is the same as Emperor An of the Han Dynasty who listened to slanderous rumors and dismissed Yang Zhen and deposed the prince.
Moreover, there was not a year without troops during the Chiwu period, and the people were worried and resentful.
In the autumn of the eighth year, General Ma Mao and others plotted rebellion again.
In September of the first year of Emperor Jingchu of the Wei Ming Dynasty, rains continued continuously, and water rose in the four prefectures of Hebei, Yan, Xu, and Henan, drowning people and washing away property.
As soon as Emperor Ming came to the throne, he indulged in licentiousness, took possession of many young girls, robbed the wives of scholars, built and decorated palaces, hindered the farming season, indulged in lust, and became more serious. He issued orders that were not in season, and did not reduce labor in times of famine.
Creation is a sign that the water is not flowing smoothly.
In the summer of Wu Sunliang's first year of Wufeng, there was a flood.
Sun Quan's temple was not built until four years after Sun Liang took the throne.
In addition, throughout the entire Wu Dynasty, there was no title given to the ancestors, the etiquette of strict fathers was not practiced, and the number of fathers and sons in the ancestral temple was also missing.
Sun Liang, Sun Xiu, and Sun Hao all abolished the sacrifices in the northern and southern suburbs and did not worship the gods according to their hierarchy.
This is a punishment for not holding sacrifices in Tongman Ancestral Temple.
Also, at this time, Sun Jun was arbitrary in the government affairs, which was a sign that yin prevailed over yang!


Chunk 11: 
original: 
孙休永安四年五月，大雨，水泉涌溢。
昔岁作浦里塘，功费无数，而田不可成，士卒死叛，或自贼杀，百姓愁怨，阴气盛也。
休又专任张布，退盛冲等，吴人贼之应也。
五年八月壬午，大雨震电，水泉涌溢。
武帝泰始四年九月，青、徐、兗、豫四州大水。
七年六月，大雨霖，河、洛、伊、沁皆溢，杀二百余人。
自帝即尊位，不加三后祖宗之号。
泰始二年又除明堂南郊五帝座，同称昊天上帝，一位而已。
又省先后配地之祀。
此简宗庙废祭祀之罚也。
咸宁元年九月，徐州大水。
二年七月癸亥，河南、魏郡暴水，杀百余人。
闰月，荆州郡国五大水，流四千余家。
去年采择良家子女，露面入殿，帝亲简阅，务在姿色，不访德行，有蔽匿者以不敬论，搢绅愁怨，天下非之，阴盛之应也。
三年六月，益、梁二州郡国八暴水，杀三百余人。
七月，荆州大水。
九月，始平郡大水。
十月，青、徐、兗、豫、荆、益、梁七州又大水。
是时贾充等用事专恣，而正人疏外者多，阴气盛也。
四年七月，司、冀、兗、豫、荆、扬郡国二十大水，伤秋稼，坏屋室，有死者。
太康二年六月，泰山、江夏大水，泰山流三百家，杀六十余人，江夏亦杀人。
时平吴后，王浚为元功而诋劾妄加，荀、贾为无谋而并蒙重赏，收吴姬五千，纳之后宫，此其应也。
四年七月，兗州大水。
十二月，河南及荆、扬六州大水。
五年九月，郡国四大水，又陨霜。
是月，南安等五郡大水。
六年四月，郡国十大水，坏庐舍。
七年九月，郡国八大水。
八月六月，郡国八大水。
translation: 
In May of the fourth year of Sun Xiu's reign in Yong'an, it rained heavily and the springs gushed and overflowed.
In previous years, the construction of Bulitang required countless labor costs, but the fields could not be completed, soldiers died in rebellion, or killed each other, and the people were sad and resentful, which was a sign of strong Yin energy.
Retirement and exclusive use of Zhang Long, demoting and retiring Sheng Chong, etc. are the signs that Wu people are bandits.
In the eighth month of the fifth year, at Renwu, there was heavy rain and thunder and lightning, and the water springs gushed and overflowed.
In September of the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign in Taishi, floods occurred in the four prefectures of Zui, Tu, Yan, and Liao.
In June of the seventh year, heavy rains continued, and the Yellow River, Luoshui River, Yishui River, and Qinshui River overflowed, drowning more than 200 people.
Emperor Wu was the emperor, and the temple names of the ancestors of the three kings were not added.
In the second year of Taishi, the thrones of the five emperors in the southern suburbs were removed. They were all called the God of Haotian, but there was only one.
The sacrifices of the land allocated to the previous kings were also reduced.
This was a punishment for abolishing the sacrifices in the simple ancestral temple.
In September of the first year of Xianning, a flood occurred in Xuzhou.
In July of the second year of Guihai, floods occurred in Henan and Wei counties, killing more than a hundred people.
In the leap month, floods occurred in the five counties of Jing maggot and more than 4,000 people were washed away.
In the previous year, children from good families were selected and entered the palace without any facial coverings. Emperor Wu personally watched and selected them, focusing only on their appearance and not on their virtues. Some of them were found guilty of being disrespectful. The scholar-bureaucrats were sad and resentful, and the world condemned this matter. This was a sign of strong Yin.
In June of the third year, a flood occurred in eight counties of Yizhou and Liangzhou, killing more than 300 people.
In July, there was a flood in Jingzhou.
In September, there was a flood in Shiping County.
In October, floods occurred again in the seven prefectures of Zhi, Tu, Man, Yi, Xing, Yi, and Nao.
During the Han Dynasty, Jia Chong and others acted arbitrarily and recklessly in political affairs, and many upright people were alienated from other places. This was due to the strong Yin energy.
In July of the fourth year, floods occurred in 20 counties including Si, Ji, Yan, Yu, Jing, and Yang, which damaged autumn crops, destroyed houses, and killed some people.
In June of the second year of Taikang, floods occurred in Mount Tai and Jiangxia. Three hundred households were washed away in Mount Tai, and more than 60 people died. People also died in Jiangxia.
At this time, after the Wu Kingdom was pacified, Wang Jun made his first contribution but was slandered and impeached for no reason. Bao and Mai received heavy rewards without planning, and they collected five thousand Xingji people and kept them in the harem, which was a sign of their success.
In July of the fourth year, there was a flood in Luanzhou.
In December, it is suitable for floods in Hexing and Dangliu states.
In September of the fifth year, there were floods and frost in the four counties.
That month, how could we wait for the floods to hit the five counties?
In April of the sixth year, floods occurred in the ten counties, destroying the houses.
In September of the seventh year, there was a flood in the eight counties.
In June of the eighth year, there was a flood in the eight counties.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
惠帝元康二年，有水灾。
五年五月，颍川、淮南大水。
六月，城阳、东莞大水，杀人，荆、扬、徐、兗、豫五州又水。
是时帝即位已五载，犹未郊祀，其蒸尝亦多不亲行事。
此简宗庙废祭祀之罚。
六年五月，刑、扬二州大水。
是时贾后乱朝，宠树贾、郭，女主专政，阴气盛之应也。
八年五月，金墉城井溢。
《汉志》，成帝时有此妖，后王莽僭逆。
今有此妖，赵王伦篡位，伦废帝于此城，井溢所在，其天意也。
九月，荆、扬、徐、冀、豫五州大水。
是时贾后暴戾滋甚，韩谧骄猜弥扇，卒害太子，旋以祸灭。
九年四月，宫中井水沸溢。
永宁元年七月，南阳、东海大水。
是时齐王冏专政，阴盛之应也。
太安元年七月，兗、豫、徐、冀四州水。
时将相力政，无尊主心，阴盛故也。
孝怀帝永嘉四年四月，江东大水。
时王导等潜怀翼戴之计，阴气盛也。
元帝太兴三年六月，大水。
是时王敦内怀不臣，傲很陵上，此阴气盛也。
四年七月，又大水。
永昌二年五月，荆州及丹阳、宣城、吴兴、寿春大水。
明帝太宁元年五月，丹阳、宣城、吴兴、寿春大水。
是时王敦威权震主，阴气盛故也。
成帝咸和元年五月，大水。
是时嗣主幼冲，母后称制，庾亮以元舅决事禁中，阴胜阳故也。
二年五月戊子，京都大水。
是冬，以苏峻称兵，都邑涂地。
四年七月，丹阳、宣城、吴兴、会稽大水。
是冬，郭默作乱，荆豫共讨之，半岁乃定，兵役之应也。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, there was a flood.
In May of the fifth year, floods occurred in Yingchuan and Huainan.
In June, floods occurred in Chengyang and Dongguan, killing people, and floods occurred again in Jing, Yang, Xu, Yan, and Yu prefectures.
At this time, Emperor Hui had been on the throne for five years, and still no suburban festivals were held, and most of the winter and autumn festivals were not held in person.
This is a punishment for neglecting sacrifices in the simple ancestral temple.
In May of the sixth year, floods occurred in Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
When the Empress Jia was sent, she disturbed the government affairs and favored Yong Mai and Guo. The heroine was arbitrary in the government affairs, which was a sign of strong Yin energy.
In May of the eighth year, the well in Jinyong City overflowed.
According to "Han Chronicles", there was such a change when he became emperor, and later Wang Mang usurped the throne.
Now there is such a change. King Sima Lun of Zhao usurps the throne. Sima Lun deposes Emperor Hui in this city. The well in the place where he is located is overflowing. It is God's will.
In September, floods occurred in the five prefectures of Jing, Yang, Xu, Hebei, and Henan.
At this time, the cruelty and surliness after the purchase became more serious, and Han Mi's arrogance and suspicion became more arrogant, and finally killed the prince, who was soon eliminated due to the disaster.
In April of the ninth year, the well in the palace was boiling and overflowing.
In July of the first year of Yongning, floods occurred in Nanyang and Shuhai.
At this time, King Sima Tong of Qi was in charge of the government, which was a sign of strong Yin Qi.
In July of the first year of Tai'an, floods occurred in the four prefectures of Yan, Henan, Xu, and Hebei.
During the period of time, the generals were trying to control the affairs of the state and had no intention of respecting their masters. This was due to the strong Yin Qi.
In April of the fourth year of Emperor Xiaohuai's reign in Yongjia, the river flooded.
At that time, Wang Dao and others secretly had a plan to support the new emperor, which was full of evil.
In June of the third year of Emperor Taixing's reign, there was a flood.
At this time, Wang Dun had a traitorous heart and was arrogant and bullying the monarch. This was a sign of strong Yin energy.
In July of the fourth year, there was another flood.
In May of the second year of Yongchang, floods occurred in Jingzhou, Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing, and Shouchun.
In May of the first year of Taining, Emperor Ming, floods occurred in Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing and Shouchun.
During the period of time, Wang Dun had great power and threatened the monarch. This was due to the strong Yin Qi.
In May of the first year of Xianhe, Emperor Cheng, there was a flood.
At this time, the king who succeeded to the throne was young, and his mother and descendants exercised their authority. Yu Liang controlled the political power in the palace as the eldest uncle. This was because the yin energy prevailed over the yang energy.
In May of the second year of Wuzi, there was a flood in Kyoto.
That winter, because Su Jun raised his troops, the city was destroyed.
In July of the fourth year, floods occurred in Danyang, Xuancheng, Wuxing, and Kuaiji.
In the winter of that year, Guo Mo rebelled, and Jing and Yu jointly attacked him. It took half a year to pacify him. This was a sign of military war.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
七年五月，大水。
是时帝未亲机务，政在大臣，阴胜阳也。
咸康元年八月，长沙、武陵大水。
穆帝永和四年五月，大水。
五年五月，大水。
六年五月，又大水。
时幼主冲弱，母后临朝，又将相大臣各执权政，与咸和初同事也。
七年七月甲辰夜，涛水入石头，死者数百人。
是时殷浩以私忿废蔡谟，遐迩非之。
又幼主在上而殷桓交恶，选徒聚甲，各崇私权，阴胜阳之应也。
一说，涛水入石头，以为兵占。
是后殷浩、桓温、谢尚、荀羡连年征伐，百姓愁怨也。
升平二年五月，大水。
五年四月，又大水。
是时桓温权制朝廷，专征伐，阴胜阳也。
海西太和六年六月，京师大水，平地数尺，浸及太庙。
硃雀大航缆断，三艘流入大江。
丹阳、晋陵、吴郡、吴兴、临海五郡又大水，稻稼荡没，黎庶饥馑。
初，四年桓温北伐败绩，十丧其九，五年又征淮南，逾岁乃克，百姓愁怨之应也。
简文帝咸安元年十二月壬午，涛水入石头。
明年，妖贼卢竦率其属数百人入殿，略取武库三库甲仗，游击将军毛安之讨灭之，兵兴、阴盛之应也。
孝武帝太元三年六月，大水。
是时帝幼弱，政在将相。
五年五月，大水。
六年六月，扬、荆、江三州大水。
八年三月，始兴、南康、庐陵大水，平地五丈。
十年五月，大水。
自八年破苻坚后，有事中州，役无宁岁，愁怨之应也。
十三年十二月，涛水入石头，毁大航，杀人。
明年，慕容氏寇扰司兗，镇戍西北，疲于奔命，愁怨之应也。
十五年七月，沔中诸郡及兗州大水。
是时缘河纷争，征戍勤瘁之应也。
translation: 
In May of the seventh year, there was a flood.
At this time, the emperor cannot handle government affairs personally, and the power is controlled by ministers. This is the victory of yin and yang.
In August of the first year of Xiankang, floods occurred in Changsha and Wuling.
In May of the fourth year of Emperor Mu's Yonghe reign, there was a flood.
In May of the fifth year, there was a flood.
In May of the sixth year, there was another flood.
At that time, the young monarch was naive, his mother acted as the agent of the government, and the generals, ministers and ministers each had power. The situation was the same as in the early years of Xianhe.
On the night of Jiachen in the seventh month of the seventh year, raging water rushed into the rocks, killing hundreds of people.
At this time, Yin Hao dismissed Cai Mo out of personal anger, and people near and far blamed him.
Also, when the young monarch was in power, there was a conflict between Yin Hao and Huan Wen, so he selected his tribesmen and gathered sergeants, each of whom wanted to improve his power and prestige. This was a sign that yin triumphed over yang.
It is said that raging water rushing into Hutou is considered to be a harbinger of war.
Later, Yin Hao, Dan Wen, Yao Shi, and Jie Shi continued their campaigns and campaigns year after year, making the people sad and resentful.
In May of the second year of Shengping, there was a flood.
In April of the fifth year, there was another flood.
At this time, Huan Wen controlled the government and specialized in conquests. Yin prevailed over Yang.
In June of the sixth year of Taihe in Haixi, there was a flood in the capital. The flat ground was as deep as a foot, and it flooded to the Ancestral Temple.
The cables of the Suzaku ship broke and three ships flowed into the river.
Floods occurred again in Danyang, Jinling, Wujun, Wuxing and Linhai counties, washing away crops and causing famine among the people.
At the beginning, Huan Wen's Northern Expedition failed in four years, with losses of nine-tenths. In five years, Huainan was conquered, and it took more than a year to pacify it. This was a sign of the people's sorrow and resentment.
In the twelfth month of the first year of Emperor Jianwen's reign in Xian'an, at Renwu, the raging water rushed into the stone.
The next year, the thief Lu Chang led hundreds of people into the palace and plundered the weapons and honors in the arsenal. The guerrilla general Mao Anzhi attacked and eliminated him. This was a sign of the rise of the army.
In June of the third year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu, there was a flood.
At this time, Emperor Xiaowu was young and the government was in the hands of the generals.
In May of the fifth year, there was a flood.
In June of the sixth year, floods occurred in Yang, Jing, and Jiang prefectures.
In March of the eighth year, floods occurred in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the plains were five feet deep.
In May of the tenth year, there was a flood.
After defeating Fu Jian in eight years and sending troops to Zhongzhou, there has not been a year of peace and hard work. This is a sign of sorrow and resentment.
In the thirteenth year of the year, the strong water broke into the rocks, destroyed the ship, and drowned people.
In the second year, Murong invaded Sizhou and Yanzhou, guarded and defended the northwest, and was exhausted, which was a sign of sorrow and resentment.
In July of the 15th year, floods occurred in all counties in Miazhong and Yanzhou.
There were disputes along the Yellow River during the Han Dynasty, which was a sign that frequent expeditions and border garrison tired the soldiers and civilians.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十七年六月甲寅，涛水入石头，毁大航，漂船舫，有死者。
京口西浦亦涛入杀人。
永嘉郡潮水涌起，近海四县人多死。
后四年帝崩，而王恭再攻京师，京师亦发众以御之，兵彼频兴，百姓愁怨之应也。
十八年六月己亥，始兴、南康、庐陵大水，深五丈。
十九年七月，荆徐大水，伤秋稼。
二十年六月，荆徐又大水。
二十一年五月癸卯，大水。
是时政事多弊，兆庶非之。
安帝隆安三年五月，荆州大水，平地三丈。
去年殷仲堪举兵向京师，是年春又杀郗恢，阴盛作威之应也。
仲堪寻亦败亡。
五年五月，大水。
是时会稽王世子元显作威陵上，又桓玄擅西夏，孙恩乱东国，阴胜阳之应也。
元兴二年十二月，桓玄篡位。
其明年二月庚寅夜，涛水入石头。
商旅方舟万计，漂败流断，骸胔相望。
江左虽频有涛变，未有若斯之甚。
三月，义军克京都，玄败走，遂夷灭之。
三年二月己丑朔夜，涛水入石头，漂没杀人，大航流败。
义熙元年十二月己未，涛水入石头。
二年十二月己未夜，涛水入石头。
明年，骆球父环潜结桓胤、殷仲文等谋作乱，刘稚亦谋反，凡所诛灭数十家。
三年五月丙午，大水。
四年十二月戊寅，涛水入石头。
明年，王旅北讨。
六年五月丁巳，大水。
乙丑，卢循至蔡洲。
八年六月，大水。
九年五月辛巳，大水。
十年五月丁丑，大水。
戊寅，西明门地穿，涌水出，毁门扇及限，亦水沴土也。
七月乙丑，淮北风灾，大水杀人。
十一年七月丙戌，大水，淹渍太庙，百官赴救。
明年，王旅北讨关河。
translation: 
In the sixth month of the seventeenth year of Jiayin (Jiayin), turbulent waters broke into rocks, destroyed ships, and carried away boats. Some people died.
Floodwaters also rushed in and drowned people in Jingkou Xipu.
The tide surged in Yongjia County, and many people died in the four coastal counties.
Emperor Xiaowu died in the next four years, and Wang Gong attacked the capital twice. The capital also mobilized the people to resist, and military service was frequent, which was a sign of the people's sorrow and resentment.
In June of the 18th year of Jihai, floods occurred in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the water was five feet deep.
In July of the 19th year, floods occurred in Jing and Xu, damaging autumn crops.
In June of the 20th year, there was another flood in Jing and Xu.
In the fifth month of the twenty-first year, Guimao, there was a flood.
At this time, there were many shortcomings in political affairs, and the people were opposed to it.
In May of the third year of Emperor Long'an's reign, a flood occurred in Jingzhou, and the flat land was three feet deep.
The year before, Yin Zhongkan raised troops to attack the capital, and in the spring of this year he killed Xi Hui. This was a sign of Yin Sheng's power.
Yin Zhongkan was also defeated soon after.
In May of the fifth year, there was a flood.
When he was sent, Yuan Hao, the prince of Kuaiji, acted arrogantly and invaded the king. Huan Xuan also monopolized Xixia, and Sun En caused chaos in the eastern region. This was a sign that yin prevailed over yang.
In December of the second year of Yuanxing, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
On Gengyin night in February of the following year, strong water rushed into the stone.
Tens of thousands of merchant boats were drifted and destroyed, and corpses could be seen everywhere.
Although there are frequent incidents of turbulent floods in Jiangzuo, there are none as serious as this.
In March, the rebel army captured Kyoto, Huan Xuan was defeated and fled, and he was immediately executed and eliminated.
On the night of Jichou in February of the third year, strong water rushed into the rocks, destroyed people and drowned people, and the bridge was destroyed.
At the end of the twelfth month of the first year of Yixi, the strong water rushed into the stone.
It was midnight in December of the second year, and the strong water rushed into the stone.
The next year, Luo Qiu's father Luo Huan secretly colluded with Huan Yin, Yin Zhongwen and others to plot rebellion. Liu Zhi and others also plotted rebellion. In total, dozens of families were executed and exterminated.
On Bingwu in May of the third year, there was a flood.
On the 12th day of the 4th year of the lunar calendar, strong water rushed into the stone.
The next year, the emperor's army made the northern expedition.
In the fifth month of the sixth year of Dingsi, there was a flood.
Yichou and Lu Xun arrived at Caizhou.
In June of the eighth year, there was a flood.
In May of the ninth year of the year Xinsi, there was a flood.
In May of the tenth year, Ding Chou suffered from flooding.
In Wuyin, the ground at Ximing Gate cracked and water came out, destroying the door panels and thresholds. This was also a case of water overpowering earth.
In the seventh month of Yichou, Huaibei was hit by a storm and floods drowned people.
In the seventh month of the eleventh year, Bingxu, a flood occurred and flooded the Ancestral Temple. All officials rushed to rescue it.
The next year, the emperor's army went north to conquer the Guan and He areas.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
《经》曰： 敬用五事：一曰貌，二曰言，三曰视，四曰听，五曰思。
貌曰恭，言曰从，视曰明，听曰聪，思曰睿。
恭作肃，从作乂，明作哲，聪作谋，睿作圣。
休徵：曰肃，时雨若；乂，时晹若；哲，时燠若；谋，时寒若；圣，时风若。
咎徵：曰狂，恆雨若；僭，恆晹若；豫，恆燠若；急，恆寒若；恆风若。
《传》曰： 貌之不恭，是谓不肃，厥咎狂，厥罚恆雨，厥极恶。
时则有服妖，时则有龟孽，时则有鸡祸，时则有下体生上之痾，时则有青眚青祥。
惟金沴木。
说曰：凡草木之类谓之妖。
妖犹夭胎，言尚微也。
虫豸之类谓之孽。
孽则芽孽矣。
及六畜，谓之祸，言其著也。
及人，谓之痾。
痾，病貌也，言浸深也。
甚则有异物生，谓之眚；自外来，谓之祥。
祥，犹祯也。
气相伤，谓之沴。
沴犹临莅，不和意也。
每一事云 时则 以绝之，言非必俱至，或有或亡，或在前或在后。
孝武时，夏侯始昌通《五经》，善推《五行传》，以传族子夏侯胜，下及许商，皆以教所贤弟子。
其传与刘向同，惟刘歆传独异。
貌之不恭，是谓不肃。
肃，敬也。
内曰恭，外曰敬。
人君行己，体貌不恭，怠慢骄蹇，则不能敬万事，失则狂易，故其咎狂也。
上慢下暴，则阴气胜，故其罚常雨也。
水伤百谷，衣食不足，则奸宄并作，故其极恶也。
一曰，人多被刑，或形貌丑恶，亦是也。
风俗狂慢，变节易度，则为剽轻奇怪之服，故有服妖。
水类动，故有龟孽。
于《易》，《巽》为鸡。
鸡有冠、距，文武之貌。
而不为威，貌气毁，故有鸡祸。
一曰，水岁多鸡死及为怪，亦是也。
translation: 
The Sutra says: The people have five things: one is appearance, the other is speaking, the third is seeing, the fourth is listening, and the fifth is thinking.
Appearance is called respect, words are called obedience, listening is called wisdom, listening is called wisdom, and thinking is called wisdom.
Gong begets solemnity, obedience begets righteousness, understanding begets philosophy, intelligence begets strategy, and wisdom begets sage.
Good omen: Su, sometimes it rains; Yi, sometimes sunny; Zhe, sometimes warm; Mou, sometimes cold; Sheng, sometimes the wind blows.
Bad omen: Kuang, continuous rain; Ju, continuous sunny days; Yu, continuous warm weather; Jiu, continuous cold weather; Frost, continuous strong winds.
"Biography" says: Those who are disrespectful in appearance are called disrespectful, and the evil is madness. The punishment is continuous rain, which is very dangerous.
Sometimes there are strange costumes, sometimes there are turtles, sometimes there are disasters, sometimes there are strange diseases where the lower limbs grow on the upper body, sometimes there are blue disasters or blue auspicious omens.
Jin Kemu.
Commentary: All plants and trees are called demons.
The demon is like a stillborn fetus, which means it is still relatively small.
Insects and the like are called evil.
Sin is bud sin.
As for the six animals, calling it a disaster means that it is already obvious.
As for people, it is called malaria.
Disease is the image of illness, which means that the illness is very serious.
A further step is that if something strange comes out, it is called Wei; if it comes from outside, it is called Xiang.
Xiang, like Zhen.
Gas phase injury is called diagnosis.
Diagnosis is like towering over it, which means disharmony.
Every kind of thing is said to be asserted, and it does not necessarily appear, it may appear or it may not appear, it may come before or it may come after.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, Xiahou Shichang was proficient in the "Five Classics" and was good at calculating the "Five Elements". He taught it to his nephew Xiahou Sheng of the same clan, and later to Xu Shang, who all used it to teach their disciples who they considered wise.
What he taught was the same as Liu Xiang, only what Liu Xin taught was different.
Being disrespectful on the outside is called disrespect.
Su means respect.
It is called "Gong" internally and "Jing" externally.
When an emperor behaves in a disrespectful manner, is lazy, arrogant, arrogant and slow, he cannot respect everything. If there is any shortcoming, he will become crazy and lost, so his error is madness.
If the superior is slow and the inferior is violent, the Yin Qi will prevail, so the punishment is continuous rain.
Water harms the grain, and if food and clothing are insufficient, evil and evil will occur, so it is the worst.
First of all, it is right to say that many people have bodies, and some bodies have ugly appearances.
If the customs and customs are crazy and arrogant, and if the etiquette and laws are changed, strange and grotesque costumes will appear, so there are strange costumes.
Water moves, so there are turtles.
In "Yi", "Xun" is 鸸.
The 鸸 has a crown and a distance, which is a civil and military appearance.
If there is no authority, the outward Qi will be destroyed, so there will be chicken trouble.
It is said that in a water year, chickens die and become ghosts, which is also a chicken disaster.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
上失威仪，则有强臣害君上者，故有下体生于上之痾。
木色青，故有青眚青祥。
凡貌伤者病木气，木气病则金沴之，冲气相通也。
于《易》，《震》在东方，为春为木；《兑》在西方，为秋为金；《离》在南方，为夏为火；《坎》在北方，为冬为水。
春与秋日夜分，寒暑平，是以金木之气易以相变，故貌伤则致秋阴常雨，言伤则致春阳常旱也。
至于冬夏，日夜相反，寒暑殊绝，水火之气不得相并，故视伤常燠、听伤常寒者，其气然也。
逆之，其极曰恶；顺之，其福曰攸好德。
刘歆《貌传》曰有鳞虫之孽，羊祸，鼻痾。
说以为于天文东方辰为龙星，故为鳞虫。
于《易》，《兑》为羊，木为金所病，故致羊祸，与常雨同应。
此说非是。
春与秋气阴阳相敌，木病金盛，故能相并，惟此一事耳。
祸与妖痾祥眚同类，不得独异。
魏尚书邓飏扬行步驰纵，筋不束体，坐起倾倚，若无手足，此貌之不恭也。
管辂谓之鬼躁。
鬼躁者，凶终之征，后卒诛也。
惠帝元康中，贵游子弟相与为散发倮身之饮，对弄婢妾，逆之者伤好，非之者负讥，希世之士耻不与焉。
盖貌之不恭，胡狄侵中国之萌也。
其后遂有五胡之乱，此又失在狂也。
元康中，贾谧亲贵，数入二宫，与储君游戏，无降下心。
又尝因弈棋争道，成都王颖厉色曰： 皇太子国之储贰，贾谧何敢无礼！
谧犹不悛，故及于祸，貌不恭之罚也。
齐王冏既诛赵王伦，因留辅政，坐拜百官，符敕台府，淫专骄，不一朝觐，此狂恣不肃之咎也。
translation: 
If the emperor loses his dignity, strong ministers will attack the monarch, so there is a strange disease where the lower limbs grow on the upper body.
The color of the wood is green, so it has the strange auspiciousness of blue.
Anything with damaged appearance means that the wood energy is sick, and the diseased wood energy and metal will restrain the wood. This is the connection between the opposing energy.
In "Yi", "Zhen" is in the east, which is spring and wood; "Dui" is in the west, and it is autumn and gold; "Li" is in the south, and it is summer and fire; "Kan" is in the north, and it is winter and water.
Spring and autumn are equally divided between day and night, and the cold and heat are equal, so the energy of metal and wood is easy to change in phase. Therefore, damage to the appearance will lead to constant rain in autumn, and damage to speech will lead to constant drought in spring.
As for winter and summer, day and night are opposite, the difference between cold and heat is very far, and the qi of water and fire cannot overcome each other, so if there is damage, it will be always warm and hot, if there is damage, it will be always cold. This is the way the qi is.
The extreme of disobedience is called evil; the blessing of compliance is called virtue.
Liu Xin's "Meng Zhuan" said that there are evildoers with scale insects, which cause disasters for sheep and nose diseases.
The explanation is that in astronomy, the stars in the east are dragon stars, so they are scale insects.
In "Yi", "Dui" is a sheep, and the wood is injured by metal, so it causes disaster for the sheep, which is the same as the sign of constant rain.
This statement is incorrect.
The yin and yang of the qi of spring and autumn are equal, and the metal of wood is strong, so they can restrain each other. It is just a situation.
Disasters and demons are the same as Xiangyi, and cannot be abnormal alone.
Wei Shangshu Deng Yang walked quickly and casually, his muscles and bones did not restrain his limbs, he sat up and leaned forward, as if he had no hands or feet. This is a disrespectful appearance.
The authorities call it ghostly.
Ghostly, a sign of danger and death, Deng Yang was finally killed.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, the sons of noble princes and princes gathered with each other for banquets, with their hair down and their bodies exposed, and openly teased maids and concubines. Those who rebelled against them were hurt, those who criticized them were scolded, and the worldly people were ashamed to associate with them.
The disrespectful appearance is a precursor to Hu Di's invasion of the Central Plains.
After that, there was the Erhu Rebellion, which was crazy again.
During the Yuankang period, Jia Mi was favored by the nobles. He entered Shu Palace many times and played with the prince without any humility and respect.
There was also an argument over a chess game. Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, said sternly: The crown prince is the future king of the country. How dare Jia Mi be rude!
If you buy Mi but still don't repent, you will suffer disaster, which is a disrespectful punishment.
After King Sima Gang of Qi killed King Sima Lun of Zhao, he stayed to assist the government. He conferred appointments on hundreds of officials and received orders from the government. He drank too much, was licentious, was arbitrary and arrogant, and never visited the monarch again. This is the crime of arrogance, wantonness and disrespect.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
天下莫不高其功而虑其亡也，冏终弗改，遂致夷灭。
司马道子于府园内列肆，使姬人酤鬻，身自贸易。
干宝以为贵者失位，降在皁隶之象也。
俄而道子见废，以庶人终，此貌不恭之应也。
安帝义熙七年，将拜授刘毅世子，毅以王命之重，当设飨宴，亲请吏佐临视。
至拜日，国僚不重白，默拜于厩中。
王人将反命，毅方知之，大以为恨，免郎中令刘敬叔官。
天戒若曰，此惰略嘉礼不肃之妖也。
其后毅遂被杀焉。
庶征恆雨，刘歆以为《春秋》大雨，刘向以为大水。
魏明帝太和元年秋，数大雨，多暴卒，雷电非常，至杀鸟雀。
案杨阜上疏，此恆雨之罚也。
时天子居丧不哀，出入弋猎无度，奢侈繁兴，夺农时，故水失其性而恆雨为罚。
太和四年八月，大雨霖三十余日，伊、洛、河、汉皆溢，岁以凶饥。
吴孙亮太平二年二月甲寅，大雨，震电。
乙卯，雪，大寒。
案刘歆说，此时当雨而不当大，大雨，恆雨之罚也。
于始震电之，明日而雪，大寒，又常寒之罚也。
刘向以为既已雷电，则雪不当复降，皆失时之异也。
天戒若曰，为君失时，贼臣将起。
先震电而后雪者，阴见间隙，起而胜阳，逆弑之祸将成也。
亮不悟，寻见废。
此与《春秋》鲁隐同。
武帝泰始六年六月，大雨霖。
甲辰，河、洛、伊、沁水同时并溢，流四千九百余家，杀二百余人，没秋稼千三百六十余顷。
太康五年七月，任城、梁国暴雨，害豆麦。
九月，南安郡霖雨暴雪，树木摧折，害秋稼。
是秋，魏郡西平郡九县、淮南、平原霖雨暴水，霜伤秋稼。
惠帝永宁元年十月、义阳、南阳、东海霖雨，淹害秋麦。
元帝太兴三年，春雨至于夏。
是时王敦执权，不恭之罚也。
永昌元年，春雨四十余日，昼夜雷电震五十余日。
是时王敦兴兵，王师败绩之应也。
成帝咸和四年，春雨五十余日，恆雷电。
是时虽斩苏峻，其余党犹据守石头，至其灭后，淫雨乃霁。
咸康元年八月乙丑，荆州之长沙攸、醴陵、武陵之龙阳，三县雨水，浮漂屋室，杀人，损秋稼。
是时帝幼，权在于下。
translation: 
Everyone in the world believed that he had made great contributions but were worried about his defeat. Sima Gang never changed his ways and was finally executed and his clan exterminated.
Sima Daozi opened a shop in the garden of the mansion, asked his concubines to sell porridge, and went to do the business himself.
Qian Bao believes that this is a sign that a noble person has lost his position and been reduced to a servant.
Soon Daozi was deposed and ended the rest of his life as a civilian, which was a sign of disrespect.
In the seventh year of Yixi's reign, Emperor An was planning to confer Liu Yi as the crown prince. Liu Yi believed that the king's mission was so important that he should hold a banquet and personally invite officials and subordinates to attend.
When the day of worship came, the court officials did not say anything more and just worshiped silently in the stable.
The king's envoy was about to return to fulfill his orders, and Liu Yi found out. He felt very angry and dismissed Liu Jingshu from his official position.
Tian Jie said this, this is a lazy and disrespectful monster who ignores the gift.
Afterwards Liu Yi was executed.
The omen continued to rain. Liu Xin thought it was heavy rain in "Spring and Autumn", and Liu Xiang thought it was flood.
In the autumn of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Wei Ming, there were several heavy rains, which resulted in many violent deaths. Thunder and lightning were unusually unusual, even killing birds.
Yang Fu wrote a memorial saying that it was a punishment for the continuous rain.
At this time, the emperor did not mourn during the mourning period, went out hunting without restraint, was extravagant and extravagant, and violated the agricultural season, so the water lost its nature and was punished by continuous rainfall.
In August of the fourth year of Taihe, heavy rain continued for more than 30 days. Yi, Luo, He, and Han all overflowed, causing severe disasters and famine that year.
In February of the second year of Taiping of Wu Sunliang, there was heavy rain, thunder and lightning.
Yimao, snowfall, very cold.
Liu Xin said that it should rain during the period, but it should not be heavy rain. Heavy rain is the punishment for continuous rainfall.
It snowed on the second day of the thunder and lightning, which was very cold, another punishment for the continued cold.
Liu Xiang believed that since there had been thunder and lightning, there should be no more snowfall, which was a strange thing out of season.
The Heavenly Precepts say this: When a king is rebellious, rebellious ministers will appear.
First thunder and lightning and then snow. When the Yin Qi sees a gap, it rises and overcomes the Yang Qi, and the disaster of rebellion and killing of the king will arise.
Sun Liang did not wake up and was soon deposed.
This is the same situation as during the reign of Lu Yingong in "Spring and Autumn".
In June of the sixth year of Wu Hutai's reign, heavy rain continued.
In Jiachen, the He, Luo, Yi and Qin rivers all overflowed at the same time, washing away more than 4,900 houses, drowning more than 200 people, and submerging more than 1,360 hectares of autumn crops.
In July of the fifth year of Taikang, there was a heavy rain in the states of Ren Yue and Liang, which damaged the beans and wheat.
In September, Nan'an County experienced continuous rainfall and heavy snowfall, which broke trees and damaged autumn crops.
In the autumn of that year, continuous rainfall and heavy flooding occurred in nine counties of Wei and Xiping counties, Huainan, and the plains, and frost damaged autumn crops.
In October of the first year of Emperor Hui's Yongning reign, continuous rainfall occurred in Yiyang, Nanyang, and Donghai, destroying the autumn wheat.
In the third year of Emperor Yuan's Taixing reign, the spring rain continued until summer.
When Wang Dun was sent to take charge of the government, it was a punishment for disrespect.
In the first year of Yongchang, it rained in spring for more than 40 days, and there were thunder and lightning day and night for more than 50 days.
At this time, Wang Dun raised troops, which was a sign of the failure of the imperial army.
In the fourth year of Emperor Cheng's Xianhe reign, spring rain fell for more than fifty days, and there were continuous thunder and lightning.
Although Su Jun was killed at this time, his remaining party still clung to the stone. It was not until they were destroyed that the continuous rain stopped and the sky cleared.
In the eighth month of the first year of Xiankang, Yichou, three counties in Jingzhou, Youxian and Liling in Changsha, and Longyang in Wuling, experienced heavy rainfall, which destroyed houses, drowned people, and damaged autumn crops.
At that time, Emperor Xian was young and the political power was controlled by his subordinates.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
服妖魏武帝以天下凶荒，资财乏匮，始拟古皮弁，裁缣帛为白帢，以易旧服。
傅玄曰； 白乃军容，非国容也。
干宝以为 缟素，凶丧之象也 。
名之为帢，毁辱之言也，盖革代之后，劫杀之妖也。
魏明帝著绣帽，披缥纨半袖，常以见直臣杨阜，谏曰： 此礼何法服邪！ 帝默然。
近服妖也。
夫缥，非礼之色。
亵服尚不以红紫，况接臣下乎？
人主亲御非法之章，所谓自作孽不可禳也。
帝既不享永年，身没而禄去王室，后嗣不终，遂亡天下。
景初元年，发铜铸为巨人二，号曰翁仲，置之司马门外。
案古长人见，为国亡。
长狄见临洮，为秦亡之祸。
始皇不悟，反以为嘉祥，铸铜人以象之。
魏法亡国之器，而于义竟无取焉。
盖服妖也。
尚书何晏好服妇人之服，傅玄曰： 此妖服也。
夫衣裳之制，所以定上下殊内外也。
《大雅》云 玄衮赤舄，钩膺镂锡 ，歌其文也。
《小雅》云 有严有翼，共武之服 ，咏其武也。
若内外不殊，王制失叙，服妖既作，身随之亡。
妹嬉冠男子之冠，桀亡天下；何晏服妇人之服，亦亡其家，其咎均也。
吴妇人修容者，急束其发而劘角过于耳，盖其俗自操束太急，而廉隅失中之谓也。
故吴之风俗，相驱以急，言论弹射，以刻薄相尚。
居三年之丧者，往往有致毁以死。
诸葛患之，著《正交论》，虽不可以经训整乱，盖亦救时之作也。
孙休后，衣服之制上长下短，又积领五六而裳居一二。
干宝曰： 上饶奢，下俭逼，上有余下不足之妖也。
至孙皓，果奢暴恣情于上，而百姓雕困于下，卒以亡国，是其应也。
武帝泰始初，衣服上俭下丰，著衣者皆厌衤要，此君衰弱，臣放纵，下掩上之象也。
至元康末，妇人出两裆，加乎交领之上，此内出外也。
为车乘者苟贵轻细，又数变易其形，皆以白篾为纯，盖古丧车之遗象也。
夫乘者，君子之器。
盖君子立心无恆，事不崇实也。
translation: 
Due to severe famine and severe shortage of funds and property, Emperor Wu of Wei began to imitate ancient court clothes and cut them into white pieces of silk to replace the old clothes.
Fu Xuan said: White is the appearance of the army, not the appearance of the country.
Qian Ben believes that white clothing is a sign of mourning.
Calling it Chaa means destruction and humiliation, and it is a monster that robs and kills after the dynasty is changed.
Emperor Ming of Wei wore an embroidered hat and a blue and white thin silk half-sleeved dress. He often wore this outfit to meet the upright minister Yang Fu. Yang Fu advised him: What kind of etiquette is this? Emperor Ming was speechless.
Close to fancy dress.
Blue and white are not a suitable color for etiquette.
We don’t even need red and purple for casual clothes when we are at home, let alone when we receive ministers.
If the monarch himself is not dressed according to the etiquette and law, it is said that he cannot get rid of the evil he has committed.
Emperor Ming did not live long, and his fortune left the royal family after his death. His descendants did not continue, and he finally lost the world.
In the first year of Jingchu, two giants were made of copper, named Weng Zhong, and stood outside Huimamen.
Ancient elders appeared and the country perished.
长狄在堕逃出现，是秦朝灭亡的灾祸。
The First Emperor did not wake up, but thought it was an auspicious sign and cast a bronze figure to symbolize it.
Wei Xi adheres to the principle of making utensils for the subjugation of the country, but in the end there is nothing to be desired in terms of righteousness and etiquette.
This is the magic of clothing.
He Yan, the minister, liked to wear women's clothes. Fu Xuan said: "This is a monster dress."
The regulation of clothing is to determine the difference between upper and lower and inner and outer.
"Daya" says that the black dress embroidered with a dragon, the red shoes, the horse head and horse body equipment are shining with gold, and the song is the cultural aspect of the clothes.
"Xiaoya" says that there are strict and winged clothes, which are the uniforms of common martial arts, and it sings about the martial side of clothes.
If there is no distinction between inside and outside, the royal system will lose order, and when the strangeness of clothing appears, the body will perish.
Mo Xi wore a man's crown and hat, and Jie lost the world; He Yan wore women's clothes and destroyed his family, so their guilt is equal.
Women in Wudi modify their appearance, tying their hair tightly and trimming their temples above their ears. This custom probably comes from the fact that they are too hasty to tie their hair and their behavior is not moderate.
Therefore, the customs and customs of Wu land are to behave aggressively, speak harshly and treat each other harshly.
Those who observed the three-year mourning period often suffered body damage and died.
Zhuge Ke was worried about this and wrote "Orthogonal Theory". Although it could not rectify the chaos with classical education, it was still a work that saved the current situation.
After Sun Xiu, the shape of clothes was long at the top and short at the bottom. The folded collar took up 50-60% and the lower body took up 12-10%.
Qian Bao said: The upper body is numerous and extravagant, while the lower body is frugal and short, which is the strange phenomenon of the upper body being left deficient.
By the time of Sun Hao, it was true that the people above were extravagant, violent and indulged in lust, while the people below were poor and miserable, and the country finally perished, which was a sign of it.
In the early years of Emperor Wu's reign, the upper body was frugal and the lower body was complicated, and the waists of those who wore them were tight. This was a sign that the king was weak, his subordinates were indulgent, and the lower body was deceived.
By the end of Yuankang, waistcoats appeared on women's clothing, which were added to the overlapping collars, which was from the inside out to the outside.
The people who made the carriages valued lightness and delicacy, and changed their shapes many times. They were all edged with white bamboo strips, which is a sign of the ancient funeral carriages.
Cars and rides are the property of a gentleman.
A gentleman who does not have a stable mind will not respect reality.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
干宝以为晋之祸征也。
及惠帝践阼，权制在于宠臣，下掩上之应也。
至永嘉末，六宫才人流冗没于戎狄，内出外之应也。
及天下挠乱，宰辅方伯多负其任，又数改易不崇实之应也。
泰始之后，中国相尚用胡床貊槃，及为羌煮貊炙，贵人富室，必畜其器，吉享嘉会，皆以为先。
太康中，又以氈为絈头及络带袴口。
百姓相戏曰，中国必为胡所破。
夫氈毳产于胡，而天下以为絈头、带身、袴口，胡既三制之矣，能无败乎！
至元康中，氐羌互反，永嘉后，刘、石遂篡中都，自后四夷迭据华土，是服妖之应也。
初作屐者，妇人头圆，男子头方。
圆者顺之义，所以别男女也。
至太康初，妇人屐乃头方，与男无别。
此贾后专妒之征也。
太康中，天下为《晋世宁》之舞，手接杯盘而反覆之，歌曰 晋世宁，舞杯盘 。
识者曰： 夫乐生人心，所以观事也。
今接杯盘于手上而反覆之，至危之事也。
杯盘者，酒食之器，而名曰《晋世宁》，言晋世之士苟偷于酒食之间，而知不及远，晋世之宁犹杯盘之在手也。
惠帝元康中，妇人之饰有五兵佩，又以金银玳瑁之属，为斧钺戈戟，以当笄。
干宝以为 男女之别，国之大节，故服物异等，贽币不同。
今妇人而以兵器为饰，此妇人妖之甚者。
于是遂有贾后之事 。
终亡天下。
是时妇人结发者既成，以缯急束其环，名曰撷子紒。
始自中宫，天下化之。
其后贾后废害太子之应也。
元康中，天下始相傚为乌杖以柱掖，其后稍施其镦，住则植之。夫木，东方之行，金之臣也。
杖者扶体之器，乌其头者，尤便用也。
必旁柱掖者，旁救之象也。
translation: 
Qian Yi thought it was a sign of disaster for the Jin Dynasty.
When Emperor Hui ascended the throne, power was in the hands of his favored ministers, which was a sign of deception from below.
In the last years of Yongjia, the talented people from the Sixth Palace were scattered and fell into the Rongdi, which was a sign that the inside was going out.
When the world was in chaos and turmoil, the ministers and princes in various places relied more on their own power, which was a sign of repeated changes and not respecting reality.
After the beginning of Taishi, the Central Plains advocated the use of the Hu people's light seats, the Qiang people's food containers, and the Qiang people's cooking methods. Noble and wealthy people must have such utensils, and the auspicious days of offering sacrifices and holding banquets were based on this.
During the Taikang period, felt was used as headbands, belts, and trouser cuffs.
The people joked among themselves that the Central Plains would definitely be defeated by the barbarians.
Felt is produced in the Hu land, and is used all over the world to make headbands, belts, and trouser cuffs. The Hu people already control these three places, how can they not fail?
In the reign of Yuan Kang, the Di and Qiang people rebelled. After Yongjia, Liu Yuan and Shi Le finally captured the central capital. From then on, the four barbarians alternately occupied the Central Plains. This was a sign of strange costumes.
When clogs were first made, women's clogs had round heads and men's clogs had square heads.
Yuan means "shun" and is used to distinguish men and women.
By the early years of Taikang, the heads of women's clogs had become square, no different from men's.
This is a sign of Empress Jia's dictatorship.
During the Taikang period, people all over the world danced the dance "Jin Shining", holding cups and plates in their hands and moving up and down repeatedly, singing "Jin Shining, dancing cups and plates".
A knowledgeable person said: Dance music comes from the human heart and is used to express things.
It is very dangerous to hold the cup and plate in your hand and move it up and down.
Cups and plates are utensils for drinking and eating. It is called "Jin Shi Ning", which means that people in the Jin Dynasty lived in peace and quiet while drinking and eating without thinking about the long term. The peace of the Jin Dynasty was like cups and plates in their hands.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, women's decorations included five types of weapon-shaped ornaments, and gold, silver, tortoiseshell and the like were used to make axes, iron, spears, and halberds to serve as hairpins.
Qian Bao believes that the difference between men and women is a great etiquette of the country, so clothing and items are of different levels and gifts are different.
Nowadays, women use weapons as ornaments. This is a serious sign of women's evil.
Soon there was the matter of Empress Jia's exclusive power.
Eventually he lost the world.
At this time, after women tied their hair, they used silk ribbons to tie the hair rings tightly, which is called a knot.
It started in the palace and was imitated all over the world.
This is a sign that the prince will be deposed and harmed after his purchase.
During the Yuankang period, people all over the world began to use black sticks as crutches for each other. Later, they gradually added a flat-bottomed metal head and stood it up when they stopped. Wood represents the journey to the east and is the minister of gold.
The staff is an object that supports the body. It has a black-shaped head, which is particularly easy to use.
Someone must use it, it is a sign that it needs to be saved.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
施其金，柱则植之，言木因于金，能孤立也。
及怀愍之世，王室多故，而此中都丧败，元帝以籓臣树德东方，维持天下，柱掖之应也。
至社稷无主，海内归之，遂承天命，建都江外，独立之应也。
元康、太安之间，江淮之域有败屩自聚于道，多者至四五十量，人或散投坑谷，明日视之复如故。
或云，见狸衔聚之。
干宝以为 夫屩者，人之贱服，处于劳辱，黔庶之象也。
败者，疲弊之象；道者，四方往来，所以交通王命也。
今败屩聚于道者，象黔庶罢病，将相聚为乱，以绝王命也 。
太安中，发壬午兵，百姓怨叛。
江夏张昌唱乱，荆楚从之如流。
于是兵革岁起，服妖也。
初，魏造白帢，横缝其前以别后，名之曰颜帢，传行之。
至永嘉之间，稍去其缝，名无颜帢，而妇人束发，其缓弥甚，紒之坚不能自立，发被于额，目出而已。
无颜者，愧之言也。
覆额者，惭之貌也。
其缓弥甚者，言天下亡礼与义，放纵情性，及其终极，至于大耻也。
永嘉之后，二帝不反，天下愧焉。
孝怀帝永嘉中，士大夫竞服生笺单衣。
识者指之曰： 此则古者繐衰，诸侯所以服天子也。
今无故服之，殆有应乎！
其后遂有胡贼之乱，帝遇害焉。
元帝太兴中，兵士以绛囊缚紒。
识者曰： 紒者在首，为乾，君道也。
囊者坤，臣道也。
今以硃囊缚紒，臣道上侵君之象也。
于是王敦陵上焉。
旧为羽扇柄者，刻木象其骨形，列羽用十，取全数也。
自中兴初，王敦南征，始改为长柄，下出可捉，而减其羽用八。
translation: 
With the addition of metal, it can stand on the ground when it is upright. This means that wood can stand on its own by relying on metal.
During the Huai Tong and Bi Tong eras, there were many changes in the royal family, and Kyoto fell. The Five Emperors used their status as vassals to establish authority in the east and maintain the world, which was a sign of support.
When the country no longer has a monarch and all the people in the country submit to him, he will inherit the destiny and build the capital south of the Yangtze River. This is a sign of independence.
During the Yuankang and Tai'an years, broken straw sandals gathered on the roads in the Jiang and Huai areas. There were as many as forty or fifty pairs. Some people scattered them and threw them into pits and valleys. The next day, the sandals were returned to their original places.
Some people say that they saw foxes coming to gather together.
Qian Bao believes that straw sandals are humble clothing for people who are in a humiliating position during work and are a symbol of the poor.
Desolation is a symbol of fatigue and hardship; roads, traveling in all directions, are used to convey the king's orders.
Today, broken straw sandals gather on the road, symbolizing the fatigue and poverty of the poor, and the gathering of military commanders and civil servants to cause chaos and cut off the king's order.
During the Tai'an period, the Renwu soldiers were recruited, and the people rebelled in anger.
Zhang Chang of Jiangxia launched a rebellion, and there was a steady stream of people following him in Jing and Chu areas.
So wars appear every year, which is to obey the demon.
At the beginning, Wei made Bai Qia, with a horizontal seam on the front to distinguish it from the back. It was called Yan Qia, and it spread.
In the Yongjia year, the horizontal seams were gradually removed, and it was called Wuyan Clam. Women's hair was even looser, and the bun could not stand upright. The hair was draped on the forehead, only exposing the eyes.
Shameless means ashamed.
Covering his forehead, he looked ashamed.
More loosely, it means that there is no etiquette and justice in the world, and one indulges one's temper to the extreme, which is a great shame.
After Yongjia, the two emperors were taken captive and could not return, which was a shame to the world.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohuai and Yongjia, scholar-bureaucrats competed to wear single clothes with raw materials.
A knowledgeable person pointed to it and said: "It is made of ancient sparse fine cloth mourning clothes, which were worn by the officials of the princes in mourning for the emperor."
Wearing such clothes now for no reason must be a sign!
After that, there was the Hu Chu Rebellion, and Emperor Xiaohuai was killed.
During the Taixing period of Emperor Yuan, soldiers used purple pouches to tie their hair into buns.
Knowledgeable people say: The bun on the head is the trunk, which represents the way of the king.
The bag is Kun, which represents the way of being a courtier.
Nowadays, wearing a red bag tied into a bun is a symbol of a minister's invasion of the king.
At this time Wang Dun invaded the king.
In the old days, the handle of the feather fan was made, and the carved wood was used as the frame. Ten feathers were arranged to represent the full number.
Since the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, when Wang Dun was marching south, it began to be modified into a long handle, with the lower part growing out so that it can be held by the hand, and the number of feathers reduced to eight.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
识者尤之曰： 夫羽扇，翼之名也。
创为长柄者，将执其柄以制羽翼也。
改十为八者，将未备夺已备也。
此殆敦之擅权以制朝廷之柄，又将以无德之材欲窃非据也。
是时，为衣者又上短，带才至于掖，著帽者又以带缚项。
下逼上，上无地也。
为袴者直幅为口，无杀，下大之象。
寻而王敦谋逆，再攻京师。
海西嗣位，忘设豹尾。
天戒若曰，夫豹尾，仪服之主，大人所以豹变也。
而海西豹变之日，非所宜忘而忘之。
非主社稷之人，故忘其豹尾，示不终也。
寻而被废焉。
孝武太元中，人不复著帩头。
天戒若曰，头者元首，帩者助元首为仪饰者也。
今忽废之，若人君独立无辅佐，以至危亡也。
至安帝，桓玄乃篡位焉。
旧为屐者，齿皆达楄上，名曰露卯。
太元中忽不彻，名日阴卯。
识者以为卯，谋也，必有阴谋之事。
至烈宗末，骠骑参军袁悦之始揽构内外，隆安中遂谋诈相倾，以致大乱。
太元中，公主妇女必缓鬓倾髻，以为盛饰。
用髲既多，不可恆戴，乃先于木及笼上装之，名曰假髻，或名假头。
至于贫家，不能自办，自号无头，就人借头。
遂布天下，亦服妖也。
无几时，孝武晏驾而天下骚动，刑戮无数，多丧其元。
至于大殓，皆刻木及蜡或缚菰草为头，是假头之应云。
桓玄篡立，殿上施绛帐，镂黄金为颜，四角金龙衔五色羽葆流苏。
群下相谓曰： 颇类轜车。
寻而玄败，此服之妖也。
晋末皆冠小而衣裳博大，风流相放，舆台成俗。
识者曰： 上小而下大，此禅代之象也。
寻而宋受终焉。
translation: 
A knowledgeable person criticized and said: Lufan is the name of wings.
With a long handle, you will hold the handle to control the wings.
Changing the ten roots to eight means replacing the complete ones with the incomplete ones.
This means that Wang Dun specializes in government affairs to control the power of the court, and will use unscrupulous talents to steal what he shouldn't have.
At this time, the clothes were made with short tops and belts only reaching the armpits, and hats were tied around the neck with belts.
The bottom forces the top, and there is no room for the top.
The trousers should be made with a straight width and not tightened, which is a sign of a large lower body.
Soon Wang Dun planned a rebellion and attacked Kyoto twice.
When Duke Haixi succeeded to the throne, he forgot to decorate the leopard's tail.
Tian Jie said this, the leopard tail is the master of ceremonial clothing, and is used by people with noble status to transform into leopards.
The day when Haixi male leopard changed, should not be forgotten but forgotten.
He is not in charge of the country, so he forgot the leopard's tail, which means he will not die well.
He was soon deposed.
During the Taiyuan period of Xiaowu, people no longer wore turbans.
Tianjie said this, the head is the head of state, and the cliff is the auxiliary head of the head as a ceremonial decoration.
Now it is suddenly abandoned, just like a man who is alone without help and will be in danger.
When Emperor An arrived, Huan Xuan usurped the throne.
In the old days when clogs were made, the wooden teeth at the bottom were all lined up on the bottom board, which was called Lu Mao.
During the Taiyuan period, the queue suddenly stopped being full and was called Yinmao.
Knowledgeable people think that Mao means conspiracy, and there must be some conspiracy.
In the last years of Emperor Liezong's reign, Yuan Yuezhi joined the army and began to control the internal and external political power. During the Long'an period, there were conspiracies and conflicts with each other, resulting in great chaos.
During the five years, princess women must loosen their hair and tie their hair in a side bun, and decorate it with many headdresses.
There are many wigs used, and they cannot be worn all the time, so they are first installed on wood and cages, which are called false buns, and some are also called false heads.
As for poor people, they cannot prepare things themselves, so they claim to have no money and borrow money from others.
So it became popular in the world, and it was also a demon.
Not long after, Emperor Xiaowu died, and the world was in turmoil. People were killed regardless of the consequences, and most of them had no heads.
At the time of burial, people would carve wood and wax or tie wildgrass to make a head, which is a sign of a false head.
Huan Xuan usurped the throne and established himself. A red curtain was installed on the hall, and the face was carved with gold. At the four corners, there were golden dragons holding five-color feather tassels in their mouths.
The ministers said to each other: It looks like a funeral car.
Soon Huan Xuan was destroyed, and he was convinced of the demon.
In the last years of Zhifa, the hats were small and the clothes were wide. The customs and educations imitated each other and became a custom among the common people.
Knowledgeable people say: The top is small and the bottom is large, which is a symbol of surrender and substitution.
Liu Song soon replaced the last emperor.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
鸡祸魏明帝景初二年，廷尉府中雌鸡化为雄，不鸣不将。
干宝曰： 是岁宣帝平辽东，百姓始有与能之义，此其象也。
然晋三后并以人臣终，不鸣不将，又天意也。
惠帝元康六年，陈国有鸡生雄鸡无翅，既大，坠坑而死。
王隐以为： 雄者，胤嗣子之象。
坑者，母象。
今鸡生无翅，坠坑而死，此子无羽翼，为母所陷害乎？
于后贾后诬杀愍怀，此其应也。
太安中，周家雌鸡逃承溜中，六七日而下，奋翼鸣将，独毛羽不变。
其后有陈敏之事。
敏虽控制江表，终无纪纲文章，殆其象也。
卒为所灭。
鸡祸见家，又天意也。
京房《易传》曰： 牝鸡雄鸣，主不荣。
元帝太兴中，王敦镇武昌，有雌鸡化为雄。
天戒若曰，雌化为雄，臣陵其上。
其后王敦再攻京师。
孝武太元十三年四月，广陵高平阎嵩家雌鸡生无右翅，彭城人刘象之家鸡有三足。
京房《易传》曰： 君用妇人言，则鸡生妖。
是时，主相并用尼媪之言，宠赐过厚，故妖象见焉。
安帝隆安元年八月，琅邪王道子家青雌鸡化为赤雄鸡，不鸣不将。
桓玄将篡，不能成业之象。
四年，荆州有鸡生角，角寻堕落。
是时桓玄始擅西夏，狂慢不肃，故有鸡祸。
天戒若曰，角，兵象，寻堕落者，暂起不终之妖也。
后皆应也。
元兴二年，衡阳有雌鸡化为雄，八十日而冠萎。
天戒若曰，衡阳，桓玄楚国之邦略也。
及桓玄篡位，果八十日而败，此其应也。
青祥武帝咸宁元年八月丁酉，大风折大社树，有青气出焉，此青祥也。
占曰： 东莞当有帝者。
明年，元帝生。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Jingchu of Wei Ming Dynasty, the female harlequin in Tingwei's mansion turned into a male harlequin, neither singing nor fighting.
Wang Yi said: After the war was over, the common people began to talk about recommending talented people. This is a symbol of it.
However, the three emperors of Zhiqiao all lived their lives as ministers. It was God's will not to complain or fight.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui's Yuankang reign, a chicken in Chen State gave birth to a male male without wings. When he grew up, he fell into a pit and died.
Wang Yin believes that: Xiong is a symbol of inheritance for descendants.
The pit is a symbol of mother.
Now a chicken is born without wings and falls into a pit and dies. Is this a sign that the son has no wings and has been framed by his mother?
Later, after buying it, he was framed and killed by Prince Minhuai, which was a sign.
During the Tai'an period, Zhou Guan's mother fled into the water canal in the eaves. It took her six or seven days to come down. She flapped her wings, cried and fought, but only her feathers remained unchanged.
After that, there was the Chen Min incident.
Although Chen Min controlled the Jiangnan area, he finally had no laws of etiquette and music, which was probably a symbol of him.
Eventually it was eliminated by Zhou Quan.
The disaster that happened to Zhou Guan's family was God's will.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If a hen crows like a rooster, the master will be dishonored.
During the Taixing period of Emperor Yuan, Wang Dun was guarding Wuchang, and a hen turned into a male.
Tian Jie said this: the female becomes male, and the subordinates invade the monarch.
After that, Wang Dun attacked Kyoto twice.
In April of the thirteenth year of Emperor Xiaowu's reign, a hen from the Minsong family in Gaoping, Guangling, was born without a right wing, while a chicken from Liu Xiangzhi's family in Pengcheng had three legs.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: If the monarch listens to the woman's words, monsters will appear in him.
At this time, the king and his ministers all listened to the old nun woman's words, and the favor and reward were particularly generous, so strange signs appeared.
In August of the first year of Emperor Long'an of Emperor An, the green hen of Sima Daozi's family turned into a red rooster, which neither crow nor fight.
It is a symbol that General Huanxuan usurped power but was unable to achieve success.
In the fourth year, a slug in Jingzhou grew horns, which soon fell off.
At that time, Huanxuan began to dominate the Xixia region. He was arrogant, arrogant and disrespectful, which led to disaster.
Tian Jie said this, the horn, the symbol of the weapon, soon fell off, it was a temporary evil that could not last forever.
Later it all came true.
In the second year of Yuanxing, a hen in Hengyang turned into a rooster. After eighty days, the comb shrank.
Tian Jie said this: Hengyang is a state of Huanxuan Chu State.
When Huan Xuan usurped the throne, he was defeated in eighty days. This was his fulfillment.
In the eighth month of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu, a strong wind broke the big tree in the temple, and green air came out. This was Qingxiang.
Divination said: Secha should have an emperor.
The next year, five children were born.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
是时，帝大父武王封东莞，由是徙封琅邪。
孙盛以为中兴之表。
晋室之乱，武帝子孙无孑遗，社树折之应，又常风之罚。
惠帝元康中，洛阳南山有虻作声，曰 韩尸尸 。
识者曰： 韩氏将尸也，言尸尸者，尽死意也。
其后韩谧诛而韩族歼焉，此青祥也。
金沴木魏文帝黄初七年正月，幸许昌。
许昌城南门无故自崩，帝心恶之，遂不入，还洛阳。
此金沴木，木动之也。
五月，宫车晏驾。京房《易传》曰： 上下咸悖，厥妖也城门坏。 元帝太兴二年六月，吴郡米庑无故自坏。
天戒若曰，夫米庑，货籴之屋，无故自坏，此五谷踊贵，所以无籴卖也。
是岁遂大饥，死者千数焉。
明帝太宁元年，周莚自归王敦，既立其宅宇，所起五间六梁，一时跃出坠地，余桁犹亘柱头。
此金沴木也。
明年五月，钱凤谋乱，遂族灭莚，而湖熟寻亦为墟矣。
安帝元兴元年正月丙子，会稽王世子元显将讨桓玄，建牙竿于扬州南门，其东者难立，良久乃正。
近沴妖也。
而元显寻为玄所擒。
三年五月，乐贤堂坏。
时帝嚚眊，无乐贤之心，故此堂是沴。
义熙九年五月，国子圣堂坏。
天戒若曰，圣堂，礼乐之本，无故自坏，业祚将坠之象。
未及十年而禅位焉。
translation: 
When he was dispatched, Wutong's grandfather, King Chonghuang, was entrusted with the title of Tombmaster, and his title was changed from Bao Bao to King Zhexiachen.
Sesheng thinks it is a symbol of ZTE.
The Jin Dynasty was in chaos, and no descendants of Emperor Wu were left behind. This was a sign that the tree in the temple was broken, and it was also a punishment from the continuous strong wind.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Hui, there were flies called "Han Shishi" in the Nanshan Mountains of Luoyang.
A knowledgeable person said: There will be dead corpses in the Han family. The word corpse means all death.
After that, Han Mi was executed and the Han family was destroyed. This was Qing Xiang.
In the first month of the seventh year of Emperor Huangchu's reign, Emperor Wen of Wei visited Xuchang.
The south gate of Xuchang City collapsed on its own for no reason. Emperor Wen was disgusted by this incident, so he did not enter the city and returned to Luoyang.
This is where metal overcomes wood and wood vibrates. In May, Emperor Wen died.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: The top and bottom are rebellious, and the evil is the destruction of the city gate. In June of the second year of Emperor Taixing of the Yuan Dynasty, Mi Lian of Wu County destroyed it without any reason.
Tian Jie said this: Millennium is a house that is bought and sold, and it is destroyed without any reason. This is because the grain is too expensive, so there is no buying or selling.
There was a great famine that year, and more than a thousand people died of starvation.
In the first year of Emperor Taining's reign in the Ming Dynasty, Zhou Xun himself joined Wang Dun and built his house. The five bays and six beams he built suddenly jumped off and fell to the ground, while the remaining purlins were still intertwined on the pillar heads.
This is Jinkemu.
In May of the following year, Qian Feng conspired to rebel and destroyed Zhou Xun's family. Soon the Hushu area was in ruins.
On Bingzi of the first month of the first year of Yuanxing of Emperor An, Prince Yuanxian of Kuaiji was preparing to attack Huanxuan and erected a tooth flag pole at the south gate of Yangzhou. The flagpole on the east side was difficult to stand and took a long time to stand upright.
Almost as strange as Kemu.
Yuan Xian was soon captured by Huan Xuan.
In May of the third year, Lexian Hall was destroyed.
At that time, Emperor An was tyrannical and ignorant, and had no love for talented people, so the hall was destroyed.
In May of the ninth year of Yixi, the Guozi Temple was destroyed.
Tian Jie said this, the holy church is the foundation of rituals and music, and destroying it for no reason is a sign that the emperor's fortune will be lost.
He abdicated the throne in less than ten years.


