Chunk 0: 
original: 
班超子勇梁慬何熙班超字仲升，扶风平陵人，徐令彪之少子也。
为人有大志，不修细节。
然内孝谨，居家常执勤苦，不耻劳辱。
有口辩，而涉猎书传。
永平五年，兄固被召诣校书郎，超与母随至洛阳。
家贫，常为官佣书以供养。
久劳苦，尝辍业投笔叹曰： 大丈夫无它志略，犹当效傅介子、张骞立功异域，以取封侯，安能久事笔研间乎？
左右皆笑之。
超曰： 小子安知壮士志哉！
其后行诣相者，曰： 祭酒，布衣诸生耳，而当封侯万里之外。
超问其状。相者指曰： 生燕颔虎颈，飞而食肉，此万里侯相也。
久之，显宗问固： 卿弟安在？
固对： 为官写书，受直以养老母。
帝乃除超为兰台令史。
后坐事免官。
十六年，奉车都尉窦固出击匈奴，以超为假司马，将兵别击伊吾，战于蒲类海，多斩首虏而还。
固以为能，遣与从事郭恂惧使西域。
超到鄯善，鄯善王广奉超礼敬甚备，后忽更疏懈。
超谓其官属曰： 宁觉广礼意薄乎？
translation: 
◆Ban Chao's biography, Ban Chao's courtesy name is Zhong Sheng, a native of Pingling County, Fufeng, and the youngest son of Ban Biao, the magistrate of Xu County.
He is ambitious and does not stick to trivial matters.
However, he is filial and respectful, diligent in housekeeping, and is not ashamed of hard work and humiliation.
He read widely and was very eloquent.
In the fifth year of Yongping, his elder brother Ban Gu was recruited as the school secretary. Ban Chao and his mother went to Luoyang together.
His family was very poor and he was often hired by officials to copy books and use his income to support his mother.
Therefore, he worked hard for a long time. He once put down his work and wrote and sighed: A man has no other great ambitions. He should follow the example of Fu Jiezi and Zhang Qian and make meritorious service in foreign lands to gain a title. How can he be engaged in the work of pen and inkstone for a long time?
Colleagues made fun of him.
Ban Chao said: How do boys know the ambition of a strong man?
Later, he went to the fortune teller to see the fortune teller. The fortune teller said: Sir, you are just a commoner, but in the future you will definitely become a prince thousands of miles away.
Banchao asked about his appearance, and the fortune teller said: "Your forehead is like a swallow, your neck is like a tiger, you fly and eat meat, this is the appearance of Wanli Hou."
After a long time, Xianzong asked Ban Gu: Where is your brother?
Ban Gu said to Xianzong: He is copying documents for the government and needs some money to support his old mother.
Emperor Xianzong appointed Ban Chao as the Lantai Lingshi.
Later, Ban Chao was dismissed from office due to his fault.
In the 16th year of Yongping, Dou Gu, the captain of Fengdong, attacked the Xiongnu. He appointed Ban Chao as a fake Sima and asked him to lead an army to attack Yiwu. They fought in Puleihai and returned with many enemy heads beheaded.
Dou Gu thought Ban Chao was very talented and sent him to follow Guo Xun on an envoy to the Western Regions.
When Ban Chao arrived in Shanshan, King Guang of Shanshan received him respectfully and politely, but then suddenly became cold.
Ban Chao said to his subordinates: Have you ever felt that King Guang of Shanshan's respect for us has diminished?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
此必有北虏使来，狐疑未知所从故也。
明者睹未萌，况已著邪。
乃召待胡诈之曰： 匈奴使来数日，今安在乎？
侍胡惶恐，具服其状。
超乃闭侍胡，悉会其吏士三十六人，与共饮，酒酣，因激怒之曰： 卿曹与我俱在绝域，欲立大功，以求富贵。
今虏使到裁数日，而王广礼敬即废；如令鄯善收吾属送匈奴，骸骨长为豺狼食矣。
为之奈何？ 官属皆曰： 今在危亡之地，死生从司马。
超曰： 不入虎穴，不得虎子。
当今之计，独有因夜以火攻虏，使彼不知我多少，必大震怖，可殄尽也。
灭此虏，则鄯善破胆，功成事立矣。
众曰： 当与从事议之。
超怒曰： 吉凶决于今日。
从事文俗吏，闻此必恐而谋泄，死无所名，非壮士也！
众曰： 善。 初夜，遂将吏士往奔虏营。
translation: 
This must be because the Huns envoys came, and King Shanshan was hesitant and didn't know why.
Wise people can see things that are not yet apparent, let alone obvious facts.
So he called the barbarian who was waiting on him and threatened him by saying: "The Huns' envoys have been coming for several days." Where are you now?
The waiter was not frightened, so he revealed the whole situation.
Ban Chao locked up the waiter and gathered all thirty-six of his subordinates to drink together. When they were drunk happily, Ban Chao used words to irritate them and said: You and I are both in a very remote place, and we want to achieve great achievements in order to gain wealth.
It has only been a few days since the Huns envoy came, but King Guang of Shanshan has canceled the salute. If he captures us and gives them to the Huns, our bones will be fed to jackals forever. What do you think we should do?
All the subordinates said: We are now in a critical situation, and we must obey Sima's orders whether we live or die.
Ban Chao said: If you don't get into the tiger's cave, you won't be able to catch the little tiger.
The best strategy now is to attack the Huns with fire when it is dark at night. They don't know how many of us there are, so they will be greatly frightened, and we can wipe them all out.
After destroying the Huns, King Shanshan will be frightened out of his wits. We are done and things are done.
The subordinates said: We should discuss this with the managers.
Ban Chao said angrily: "Whether it is good or bad depends on today."
If you are a vulgar civil servant, if you hear our plan, you will definitely leak the secret out of fear. He died unappreciated and was not a heroic and brave man. Everyone said: OK!
At the first watch, Ban Chao led his subordinates to the camp of the Huns envoys.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
会天大风，超令十人持鼓藏虏舍后，约曰： 见火然，皆当鸣鼓大呼。
余人悉持兵弩夹门而伏。
超乃顺风纵火，前后鼓噪。
虏众惊乱，超手格杀三人，吏兵斩其使及从士三十余级，余众百许人悉烧死。
明日乃还告郭恂，恂大惊，既而色动。
超知其意，举手曰： 掾虽不行，班超何心独擅之乎？
恂乃悦。
超于是召鄯善王广，以虏使首示之，一国震怖。
超晓告抚慰，遂纳子为质。
还奏于窦固，固大喜，具上超功效，并求更选使使西域，帝壮超节，诏固曰： 吏如班超，何故不遣而更选乎？
今以超为军司马，令遂前功。
超复受使，固欲益其兵，超曰： 愿将本所从三十余人足矣。
如有不虞，多益为累。
translation: 
At this time, a strong wind was blowing. Ban Chao asked ten people to hold drums and hide behind the Xiongnu envoy's station, and made an agreement: When you see the fire attack, all of you will beat the drums and shout loudly.
The rest of the people were armed with bows and arrows and ambush on both sides of the door of the Huns envoy's residence.
Banchao set fire to the wind, beating drums and making noises in front and back, causing the Huns to panic and panic.
Ban Chao killed three people with his own hands, and his subordinates killed the Xiongnu envoy, and also killed more than 30 of the Xiongnu envoy's followers, and chopped off their heads. The remaining more than a hundred people were burned to death.
The next day, I went back and informed Guo Xun of the situation. Guo Xun was startled, and his expression changed after a while.
Ban Chao knew that he wanted to share the credit, so he raised his hand and said to Guo Xun: Although you didn't defeat the enemy together, how could I deliberately take the credit?
Only then did Guo Xun become happy.
Ban Chao then called King Guang of Shanshan and showed him the head of the Huns envoy. The whole country of Shanshan was shocked.
Ban Chao made the matter public and comforted him. So King Shanshan sent his son to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
Ban Chao came back and reported the incident to Dou Gu. Dou Gu was overjoyed and reported Ban Chao's achievements to the emperor in detail, and asked to send another envoy to the Western Regions. Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty praised Ban Chao's integrity and ordered Dou Gu: Why don't you choose an official like Ban Chao, but choose someone else?
Now Ban Chao is appointed as Army Sima and asked to complete his unfinished work.
Ban Chao was once again ordered to go on an envoy to the Western Regions. Dou Gu wanted to give more soldiers to Ban Chao, but Ban Chao said: I only want to give me the original thirty more soldiers.
If something unexpected happens, more people will be even more of a burden.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是时，于窴王广德新攻破莎车，遂雄张南道，而匈奴遣使监护其国，超既西，先至于窴。广德礼意甚疏。
且其俗信巫。
巫言： 神怒何故欲向汉？
汉使有騧马，急求取以祠我。
广德乃遣使就超请马。
超密知其状，报许之，而令巫自来取马。
有顷，巫至，超即斩其首以送广德，因辞让之。
广德素闻超在鄯善诛灭虏使，大惶恐，即攻杀匈奴使者而降超。
超重赐其王以下，因镇抚焉。
时，龟兹王建为匈奴所立，倚恃虏威，据有北道，攻破疏勒，杀其王，而立龟兹人兜题为疏勒王。
明年春，超从间道至疏勒。
去兜题所居橐城九十里，逆遣吏田虑先往降之。敕虑曰： 兜题本非疏勒种，国人必不用命。若不即降，便可执之。
虑既到，兜题见虑轻弱，殊无降意。
虑因其无备，遂前劫缚兜题。
translation: 
At this time, Yu Bin Wang Guangde had just conquered Shadong Kingdom and became the lord in the south of Tianshan Mountain. And the Xiongnu sent envoys to guard their country. When Banchao went to the Western Regions, he first arrived in the country of Ming. King Guangde was very cold to him and his etiquette was not very thoughtful.
Moreover, the customs of this country are based on witchcraft.
The wizard said: The god lost his temper, why did he want to get close to the Han Dynasty?
The envoy from the Han Dynasty had a bad horse, and he quickly brought it to me as a sacrifice.
King Guangde sent people to Ban Chao to ask for the horse.
Ban Chao secretly learned about this situation, so he agreed to give him the horse and asked the wizard to come and hold the horse himself.
After a while, the wizard came, and Ban Chao killed him, cut off his head and gave it to King Guangde, and reproached him with words.
King Guangde had long heard about Ban Chao's destruction of the Huns' envoys in Shanshan, and was very frightened, so he killed the Huns' envoys and surrendered to Ban Chao.
Ban Chao rewarded King Guangde and his subordinates heavily, thus frightening and pacifying Yu Chong.
At that time, King Kui of Qiuci was supported by the Xiongnu. Relying on the power of the Xiongnu, he occupied the northern route of the Tianshan Mountains, attacked Shule, killed the king of Shule, and established a Qiuchi man as the king of Shule.
In the spring of the next year, Banchao took a small road to Shule, ninety miles away from Lucheng where Douti lived.
Ban Chao sent an official Tian Liu to Lucheng in advance to ask Dooti to surrender. He also told Tian Liu: "Dooti is not from Shule. The people of the country will definitely not listen to his orders. If he does not surrender, they will catch him."
When Tian Lu arrived at Lucheng, Douti saw that he was weak and had no intention of surrendering.
Tian Liu took advantage of him being unprepared and stepped forward to tie him up.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
左右出其不意，皆惊惧奔走。
虑驰报超，超即赴之，悉召疏勒将吏，说以龟兹无道之状，因立其故王兄子忠为王，国人大悦。
忠及官属皆请杀兜题，超不听，欲示以威信，释而遣之。
疏勒由是与龟兹结怨。
十八年，帝崩。焉耆以中国大丧，遂攻没都护陈睦。
超孤立无援，而龟兹、姑墨数发兵攻疏勒。
超守盘橐城，与忠为首尾，士吏单少，拒守岁余。
肃宗初即位，以陈睦新没，恐超单危不能自立，下诏征超。
超发还，疏勒举国忧恐。
其都尉黎弇曰： 汉使弃我，我必复为龟兹所灭耳。诚不忍见汉使去。
因以刀自刎。
超还至于窴，王侯以下皆号泣曰： 依汉使如父母，诚不可去。
互抱超马脚，不得行。
超恐于窴终不听其东，又欲遂本志，乃更还疏勒。
疏勒两城自超去后，复降龟兹，而与尉头连兵。
超欲因此叵平诸国，乃上疏请兵。
曰：臣窃见先帝欲开西城，故北击匈奴，西使外国，鄯善、于窴即时向化。
translation: 
Douzi's entourage had an accident and all of them were scared away.
Tian Liu Pegasus informed Ban Chao. Banchao rushed to Lucheng, summoned all the Shule generals and officers, told them about Qiuci's rebellious behavior, and promoted their brother's son, named Zhong, to be king of Shule. The people of Shule were very happy.
Shule Wang Zhong and his subordinates all requested that Dooti be killed. Ban Chao disagreed and wanted to show his prestige, so he released Dooti.
Shule and Qiuci had enmity from then on.
In the 18th year of Yongping, Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty died. Ma Qi attacked and killed the governor Chen Mu because there was a big funeral in China.
Banchao was isolated without foreign aid, and Kucha, Gumo and other countries sent troops to attack Shule many times.
Ban Chao guarded the city, forming a leading and trailing force with Shule Wang Zhong, and held on for more than a year with very few troops.
When Suzong first ascended the throne, because Chen Mugang had just been killed, he was afraid that Ban Chao's troops were too weak to protect himself, so he ordered Ban Chao to be summoned to return to the court.
Ban Chao was preparing to return home, and the whole country in Shule was worried and fearful.
Du Wei Li said: "The Han envoys have abandoned us, and we will definitely be destroyed by Qiuci again. I really can't bear to see the Han envoys leave."
So he drew his knife and committed suicide.
When Ban Chao returned to Yu Sheng, everyone in the state of Yu Sheng, from the prince to the prince, cried and said: "We rely on the Han envoys just like we rely on our parents. We really can't leave!"
So each other held Ban Chao's legs, making Ban Chao unable to walk.
Ban Chao was afraid that Yu Xing would never let him return eastward, and wanted to realize his original wish, so he returned to Shule.
There are two cities in Shule. Since Banchao left, they have been sent to Guibei and are in the same place as Weitou State Company.
Banchao hunted down the rebels, defeated Weitou, and killed more than 600 people. Shule was peaceful again.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, Ban Chao led 10,000 troops from Shule, Kangju, Yuxing and Kumi to attack Gumo Stone City, captured the city and beheaded 700 people. Ban Chao wanted to take advantage of the victory to pacify the other countries, so he wrote to the emperor asking for more troops, saying: I secretly thought that the late emperor wanted to open up the Western Region, so I sent troops to the north to attack the Xiongnu, and sent envoys to the west to go to foreign countries. Shanshan and Yu Shen soon submitted to our court.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
今拘弥、莎车、疏勒、月氏、乌孙、康居复愿归附，欲共并力破灭龟兹，平通汉道。
若得龟兹，则西域未服者百分之一耳。
臣伏自惟念，卒伍小吏，实愿从谷吉效命绝域，庶几张骞弃身旷野。
昔魏绛列国大夫，尚能和辑诸戎，况臣奉大汉之威，而无刀一割之用乎？
前世议者皆曰取三十六国，号为断匈奴右臂。
今西域诸国，自日之所入，莫不向化，大小欣欣，贡奉不绝，惟焉耆，龟兹独未服从。
臣前与官属三十六人奉使绝域，备遭艰厄。
自孤守疏勒，于今五载，胡夷情数，臣颇识之。问其城郭大小，皆言 倚汉与依天等 。
以是效之，则葱领可通，葱领通则龟兹可伐。
今宜拜龟兹侍子白霸为其国王，以步骑数百送之，与诸国连兵，岁月之间，龟兹可禽。
以夷狄攻夷狄，计之善者也。
臣见莎车、疏勒田地肥广，草牧饶衍，不比敦煌、鄯善间也，兵可不费中国而粮食自足。
translation: 
Now, Kumi, Shadong, Shule, Yuedai, Wusun, Kangju and other countries are willing to join us and work together with us to defeat Kucha and open up the Han Road.
If Qiuci is conquered, then only one percent of the Western Regions will remain unconquered.
I often think that I am a little official, and I am really willing to serve in the wilderness like Gu Ji, and commit myself to the wilderness like Zhang Qian.
In ancient times, Wei Jiang of Jin State was no more than a great official, but he was still able to make peace between Yi and Di. What's more, I rely on the might of a big man, but I can't even cut it like a lead knife, is it useless?
Ancient commentators regarded the capture of the thirty-six kingdoms as cutting off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
Now, in all the countries in the Western Region, there is no one in the vast area that Japan has entered that does not submit to us. Countries big and small happily continued to pay tribute to our court, but Ma Qi and Qiuci did not obey.
Ever since I went on a mission to the extinct territory with my thirty-six people, we have gone through many hardships and dangers.
It has been five years since the army was trapped in Shule alone. I am very familiar with the situation of the Hu people. When I asked them about the size of their city, they all said: Relying on the Han Dynasty is like relying on the sky.
Based on this speculation, the Congling area can be unimpeded. If the green mountains are clear, then there will be no problem in conquering Qiuci.
Now, Bai Ba, the servant of Kucha, should be supported as the king of Kucha, send him hundreds of cavalry and infantry, and join forces with other countries. In a year or a few months, the king of Kucha can be captured.
Using Yi Di to attack Yi Di is a good strategy.
I saw that the land in Shadong and Shule was vast and fertile, and the pastures were luxuriant. They were not as barren as Dunhuang and Shanshan. In this way, there is no need to go on an expedition and the food is self-sufficient.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
且姑墨、温宿二王，特为龟兹所置，既非其种，更相厌苦，其势必有降反。
若二国来降，则龟兹自破。
愿下臣章，参考行事。
诚有万分，死复何恨。
臣超区区，特蒙神灵，窃冀未便僵仆，目见西域平定，陛下举万年之觞，荐勋祖庙，布大喜于天下。
书奏，帝知其功可成，议欲给兵。
平陵人徐素与超同志，上疏愿奋身佐超，五年，遂以为假司马，将驰刑及义从千人就超。
先是，莎车以为汉兵不出，遂降于龟兹，而疏勒都尉番辰亦复反叛。
会徐适至，超遂与击番辰，大破之，斩首千余级，多获生口。
超既破番辰，欲进攻龟兹。
以乌孙兵强，宜历其力，乃上言： 乌孙大国，控弦十万，故武帝妻以公主，至孝宣皇帝，卒得其用。
今可遣使招慰，与共合力。
帝纳之。
八年，拜超为将兵长史，假鼓吹幢麾。
translation: 
Moreover, the two kings Gumo and Wensu were supported by Qiuci. They are not of the same species, and they hate and hate each other. They must have rebelled and surrendered to us.
If Gumo and Wensu surrender, Qiuci will be defeated without any attack.
I hope that my memorial will be approved and submitted to the competent authorities for reference.
Even if there is extreme danger, if I die for my country, what is there to regret?
I am a small official in the class, and I have received special support from the emperor's spirit. I selfishly hope that I will not die soon and can see the peace of the Western Regions with my own eyes. Your Majesty will hold the Cup of Ten Thousand Years high, recommend my merits to the ancestral temple, and announce the great joy to the world.
After the memorial was sent, the emperor knew that he could succeed and discussed giving Ban Chao troops.
Xu Qian, a native of Pingling, had always been like-minded friends with Ban Chao, and wrote to the emperor willing to do his best to help Ban Chao. In the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the imperial court appointed Xu Qian as the fake Sima and allocated 1,000 prisoners and volunteers whose sentences were commuted to Ban Chao.
In the past, Shadong thought that if the Han Dynasty did not send troops, it would have to surrender to Qiuci. However, Fan Chen, the captain of Shule, rebelled against the Han Dynasty.
Just when Xu Qian led his troops, Ban Chao and Xu Qian joined forces to attack Fan Chen. They defeated Fan Chen, beheaded more than a thousand heads, and captured many prisoners.
Ban Chao had defeated Fan Chen and wanted to attack Kucha.
Because Wusun has a strong army, we should rely on his strength. So he wrote to the emperor and said: Wusun is a big country with one hundred thousand soldiers who use bows and arrows. Therefore, Emperor Wu married Princess Xijun, the daughter of King Fei of Jiangdu, to King Wusun. By the time of Emperor Xiaoxuan, he finally got its help and defeated the Xiongnu.
Now you can send envoys to appease Wusun and work together with him.
The emperor adopted Ban Chao's opinion.
In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Ban Chao was appointed commander-in-chief of the generals and soldiers, and Xu Qian was appointed commander-in-chief of the army.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
以徐为军司马，别遣卫侯李邑护送乌孙使者，赐大小昆弥以下锦帛。
李邑始到于窴，而值龟兹攻疏勒，恐惧不敢前，因上书陈西域之功不可成，又盛毁超拥爱妻，抱爱子，安乐外国，无内顾心。
超闻之，叹曰： 身非曾参而有三至之谗，恐见疑于当时矣。
遂去其妻。
帝知超忠，乃切责邑曰： 纵超拥爱妻，抱爱子，思归之士千余人，何能尽与超同心乎？
令邑诣超受节度。诏超： 若邑任在外者，便留与从事。
超即遣邑将乌孙侍子还京师。
徐谓超曰： 邑前亲毁君，欲败西域，今何不缘诏书留之，更遣它吏送侍子乎？
超曰： 是何言之陋也！
以邑毁超，故今遣之。
内省不疚，何恤人言！
快意留之，非忠臣也。
明年，复遣假司马和恭等四人将兵八百谐超，超因发疏勒、于窴兵击莎车。
translation: 
In addition, Wei Hou Li Yi was sent to escort Wusun's envoys, and officials from Kunmi to Kunmi were all given brocade and silk.
As soon as Li Yi arrived at Yucheng, he encountered Qiuci attacking Shule. He was afraid and did not dare to advance. So he wrote a letter to the emperor, stating that it was impossible to pacify the Western Regions. He also tried his best to slander Ban Chao, saying that Ban Chao embraced his beloved wife, held his young son in his arms, and enjoyed peace and happiness abroad without thinking about domestic affairs.
When Ban Chao heard this, he sighed and said: "I have not participated in it but have been slandered by the Three Supreme Beings. I'm afraid someone will doubt me now."
So he left his wife.
The emperor knew that Ban Chao was loyal, so he scolded Li Yi severely and said: Even if Ban Chao embraces his beloved wife and carries his young son in his arms, how can more than a thousand soldiers who miss their hometown be of the same mind as Ban Chao?
He ordered Li Yi to go to Ban Chao to accept his command, and said: If Li Yi serves abroad, let him work with you.
However, Ban Chao sent Li Yi to lead Wusun's servant back to the capital.
Xu Qian said to Ban Chao: Li Yi slandered you before and tried to make your efforts to pacify the Western Regions fail. Now why not follow the emperor's will to keep him and send other officials to escort the servant?
Ban Chao said: Why are you so ignorant?
It is precisely because Li Yi slandered me that I am sending him back to his country now.
I have a clear conscience, why should I be afraid of what others will say?
Keeping him in order to vent your personal anger is not considered a loyal minister.
The next year, the imperial court sent four people including Ji Si and Gong to lead an army of 800 people to Banchao's camp. Banchao then launched Shule and Yu Sheng's troops to attack Shadong.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
莎车阴通使疏勒王忠，啖以重利，忠遂反从之，西保乌即城。
超乃更立其府丞成大为疏勒王，悉发其不反者以攻忠。
积半岁，而康居遣精兵救之，超不能下。
是时，月氏新与康居婚，相亲，超乃使使多赍锦帛遗月氏王，令晓示康居王，康居王乃罢兵，执忠以归其国，乌即城遂降于超。
后三年，忠说康居王借兵，还据损中，密与龟兹谋，遣使诈降于超。
超内知其奸而外伪许之。忠大喜，即从轻猗诣超。
超密勒兵待之，为供张设乐，酒行，乃叱吏缚忠斩之。
因击破其众，杀七百余人，南道于是遂通。
明年，超发于窴诸国兵二万五千人，复击莎车。而龟兹王遣左将军发温宿、姑墨、尉头合五万人求之。
超召将校及于窴王议曰： 今兵少不敌，其计莫若各散去。
于窴从是而东，长史亦于此西归，可须夜鼓声而发。
阴缓所得生口。
龟兹王闻之大喜，自以万骑于西界遮超，温宿王将八千骑于东界徼于窴。
超知二虏已出，密召诸部勒兵，鸡鸣驰赴莎车营，胡大惊乱奔走，追斩五千余级，大获其马畜财物。
莎车遂将，龟兹等因各退散，自是威震西域。
初，月氏尝助汉击车师有功，是岁贡奉珍宝、符拔、师子，因求汉公主。
translation: 
Shadong secretly sent someone to Shule Wang Zhong to bribe him with huge profits. King Zhong of Shule rebelled against Banchao and followed Shadong's instructions to protect Wuji City in the west.
Ban Chao appointed Shule's prime minister, Cheng Da, as King of Shule, and mobilized all the troops who had not rebelled to attack King Zhong of Shule.
Half a year later, Kang Ju sent elite troops to rescue Wang Zhong of Shule, but Ban Chao could not attack.
At this time, Yuezhi had just married Kang Ju and they were friendly to each other. Ban Chao sent an envoy to bring more brocade and silk to King Yuezhi, and enlightened Xiao to King Kangju. King Kangju then stopped his troops, arrested Wang Zhong of Shule, and sent him back to Shule.
Wu Jicheng surrendered to Ban Chao. In the next three years, King Zhong of Shule lobbied King Kang Ju to borrow troops from him and returned to Sizhong. He also secretly conspired with Qiuci and sent envoys to pretend to surrender to Banchao.
Ban Chao learned of their plot and pretended to accept surrender. King Zhong of Shule was overjoyed and immediately led his light cavalry to Banchao to feign surrender.
Ban Chao secretly ambush the soldiers, set up tents, arranged banquets and banquets, and waited for the arrival of Shule Wang Zhong.
King Zhong of Shule came. While drinking, Ban Chao ordered his soldiers to tie up King Zhong of Shule and kill him. So he took advantage of the victory and attacked his army, killing more than 700 people, and the southern road was opened.
The next year, Ban Chao led an army of 25,000 from the Yu Sheng Kingdom to attack Shadong again, while King Qiuci sent General Zuo to lead a total of 50,000 troops from Wensu, Gumo, Weitou and other countries to rescue Shadong.
Ban Chao summoned the generals to discuss with King Yu Shen and said: Now that we can't defeat the enemy with a small number of soldiers, the best strategy is to disperse.
Yu Xing walked eastward from here, and Chang Shi returned westward from here. Wait until you hear the sound of drums in the night before setting off.
Secretly relax the imprisonment of captured prisoners.
King Qiuci was very happy when he heard the news and led 10,000 cavalry to the west to stop Banchao; King Wensu led 8,000 cavalry to the east to intercept King Yu.
Ban Chao knew that two groups of enemy troops had set off, so he secretly ordered his troops to rush to the Shadong military camp when the rooster crows. The enemy was frightened and fled in a hurry. Banchao's army pursued the enemy, killed more than 5,000 enemy soldiers, and seized a large amount of property and horses.
Sha Dong surrendered. Kucha and other countries also retreated and dispersed. From then on, Ban Chao became famous in the Western Regions.
In the past, the Yuezhi helped the Han Dynasty attack the Cheshi Kingdom and made great contributions. This year, he contributed pearls, talismans, and lions to the Han Dynasty, and asked the Han Dynasty to marry him as a princess.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
超拒还其使，由是怨恨。
永元二年，月氏遣其副王谢将兵七万攻超。
超众少，皆大恐。
超譬军士曰： 月氏兵虽多，然数千里逾葱领来，非有运输，何足忧邪？
但当收谷坚守，彼饥穷自降，不过数十日决矣。
谢遂前攻超，不下，又抄掠无所得。
超度其粮将尽，必从龟兹求救，乃遣兵数百于东界要之。
谢果遣骑赍金银珠玉以赂龟兹。
超伏兵庶击，尽杀之，持其使首以示谢。
谢大惊，即遣使请罪，愿得生归。
超纵遣之。月氏由是大震，岁奉贡献。
明年，龟兹、姑墨、温宿皆降，乃以超为都护，徐为长史。拜白霸为龟兹王，遣司马姚光送之。
超与光共胁龟兹废其王尤利多而立白霸，使光将尤利多还诣京师。
超居龟兹它乾城，徐屯疏勒。
西域唯焉耆、危须、尉犁以前没都护，怀二心，其余悉定。
六年秋，超遂发龟兹、鄯善等八国兵合七万人，及吏士贾客千四百人讨焉耆。
兵到尉犁界，而遣晓说焉耆、尉犁、危须曰： 都护来者，欲镇抚三国。
translation: 
Ban Chao rejected the Yuezhi's request and sent back their envoy. From then on, the Yuezhi resented the Han Dynasty.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Yuezhi sent his deputy king Xie with 70,000 troops to attack Banchao.
Ban Chao had few soldiers and horses, and the sergeants were frightened.
Sergeant Ban Chao Xiaoyu said: Although there are many Yueshi soldiers, they have to travel thousands of miles and cross the green mountains to invade, and transportation is extremely inconvenient. What is there to worry about?
As long as the food is stored well and held tight, the enemy will surrender due to hunger. The enemy will be defeated in just a few dozen days.
Xie, the deputy king of the Yuezhi, led his army to attack Ban Chao, but could not win; he also looted and looted, but gained nothing.
Ban Chao estimated that the enemy troops would run out of food and would definitely ask for help from Qiuci. So hundreds of troops were sent to intercept on the east road.
Sure enough, Xie, the deputy king of Yuezhi, sent cavalry to bribe Qiuci with gold, silver, pearls and jade.
Ban Chao's ambush troops stepped out to intercept and kill all the enemies, and sent someone to show the deputy king Xie the head of the Yuezhi envoy.
Xie was shocked and immediately sent an envoy to Ban Chao to apologize, asking only for him to be allowed to go back alive.
Ban Chao then released Yuezhi Deputy Wang Xie and asked him to go back.
The Yueshi were greatly shaken from then on and paid tribute to the Han Dynasty every year. In the third year of Yongyuan, Qiuci, Gumo, and Wensu all surrendered. The imperial court appointed Ban Chao as the county protector, Xu Qian as the long history, Bai Ba as the king of Qiuci, and sent Sima Yao Guang to escort him.
Ban Chao and Yao Guang jointly coerced Qiuci to depose the original king Yuliduo and establish Baiba as king, and sent Yao Guang to return to the capital with Yuliduo.
Banchao was stationed in Tagancheng, Kucha, and Xu Gan was stationed in Shule.
Only Yanqi, Weixu, and Yuli in the Western Regions had killed Chen Mu, the guard of the Han Dynasty, but had second thoughts and did not dare to surrender. The rest of the countries in the Western Regions were pacified.
In the autumn of the sixth year of Yongyuan, Banchao mobilized a total of 70,000 troops from eight countries including Qiuci and Shanshan, and 1,400 officials and officials to attack Yanqi.
When the army arrived at the border of Yuli, they sent someone to tell Yanqi, Yuli and Weixu: "The governor came here this time just to stabilize and appease the three countries."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
即欲改过向善，宜遣大人来迎，当赏赐王侯已下，事毕即还。
今赐王彩五百匹。
焉耆王广遣其左将北鞬支奉牛、酒迎超。
超诘鞬支曰： 汝虽匈奴侍子，而今秉国之权。都护自来，王不以时迎，皆汝罪也。
或谓超可便杀之。
超曰： 非汝所及。
此人权重于王，今未入其国而杀之，遂令自疑，设备守险，岂得到其城下哉！
于是赐而遣之。
广乃与大人迎超于尉犁，奉献珍物。
焉耆国有苇桥之险，广乃绝桥，不欲令汉军入国。
超更从它道厉度。
七月晦，到焉者，去城二十里，营大泽中。
广出不意，大恐，乃欲悉驱其人共入山保。
焉耆左侯元孟先尝质京师，密遣使以事告超，超即斩之，示不信用。
乃期大会诸国王，因扬声当重加赏赐，于是焉耆王广，尉犁王及北革建支等三十人相率诣超。
其国相腹久等十七人惧诛，皆亡入海，而危须王亦不至。
坐定，超怒诘广曰： 危须王何故不到？
translation: 
If you want to change your ways, you should send a leader to greet us, and then all of you, princes and below, will be rewarded.
After comforting you, we will return to the army. Now I will reward your king with five hundred pieces of colored silk.
King Guang of Yanqi sent his left general Beige Jianzhi to offer cattle and wine to welcome Ban Chao.
Banchao scolded Ge Jianzhi and said: Although you are a servant of the Huns, you have mastered the power of the country. My Protector came in person. It is your fault that your king did not welcome you on time.
Someone told Ban Chao to kill him immediately.
Ban Chao said: This is not something you can consider.
This man has more power than a king. Now if we kill him before we enter their territory, it will make them suspicious and fearful. If they strengthen their defenses and guard the dangerous positions, how can we reach their city?
So he rewarded him with property and sent him back.
Wang Guang of Yanqi and other leaders met Ban Chao in Yuli and presented them with pearls and treasures.
Yanqi State had a dangerous Reed Bridge, so King Guang demolished the Reed Bridge to prevent Han troops from entering their territory.
Ban Chao then changed his route and waded through the deep water above his waistband to cross the river.
On July 30th, we arrived at Yanqi, twenty miles away from the capital, and camped in the ocean.
Wang Guang was surprised and frightened, so he wanted to drive the whole country into the mountains and forests to hide.
Yuanmeng, the left lord of Yanqi, once went to the capital of the Han Dynasty to serve as a hostage. He secretly sent someone to tell Ban Chao about this. Ban Chao killed the envoy he sent, expressing his distrust.
He made appointments with kings of various countries and threatened to reward them heavily. So thirty people including Yanqi Wang Guang, Yuli Wang Xufan and Beige Jianzhi met with Ban Chao.
Yanqi's minister, seventeen people who had been waiting for a long time, were afraid of being beheaded, so they all fled into the sea. King Wei Xu didn’t come either.
Ban Chao sat down and angrily asked Wang Guang: "Why doesn't King Wei Xu come?"


Chunk 11: 
original: 
腹久等所缘逃亡？
遂叱吏士收广、等于陈睦故城斩之，传首京师。
因纵兵抄掠，斩首五千余级，获生口万五千人，马畜牛羊三十余万头，更立元孟为焉耆王。
超留焉耆半岁，尉抚之。
于是西域五十余国悉皆纳质内属焉。
明年，下诏曰： 往者匈奴独擅西域，寇盗河西，永平之末，城门昼闭。
先帝深愍边萌婴罗寇害，乃命将帅击右地，破白山，临蒲类，取车师，城郭诸国震慑响应，遂开西域，置都护。
而焉耆王舜、舜子忠独谋悖逆，恃其险隘，覆没都护，并及吏士。先帝重元元之命，惮兵役之兴，故使军司马班超安集于窴以西。
超遂逾葱领，迄县度，出入二十二年，莫不宾从。
改立其王，而绥其人。
不动中国，不烦戎士，得远夷之和，同异俗之心，而致天诛，蠲宿耻，以报将士之仇。
《司马法》曰： 赏不逾月，欲人速睹为善之利也。
其封超为定远侯，邑千户。
超自以久在绝域，年老思土。
十二年，上疏曰： 臣闻太公封齐，五世葬周，狐死首丘，代马依风。
夫周齐同在中土千里之间，况于远处绝域，小臣能无依风首丘之思哉？
蛮夷之俗，畏壮侮老。
translation: 
Why did Fujiu's group escape?
After that, he ordered the officials to arrest Wang Guang, Wang Xufan and others, kill them in the old city of Chenmu, and send their heads to the capital.
So he ordered the army to plunder, behead more than 5,000 people, capture 15,000 people alive, and seize more than 300,000 horses, cattle, sheep and other livestock. He changed the title of Yuan Meng to King Yanqi.
Ban Chao stayed in Yanqi for half a year to appease his countrymen.
So more than fifty countries in the Western Regions handed over hostages to express their submission to the Han Dynasty.
The next year, the emperor issued an edict saying: In the past, the Xiongnu dominated the Western Regions and invaded Hexi. In the last years of Yongping, the city gates must be closed during the day.
The late emperor deeply sympathized with the people in the frontier who suffered from the scourge of bandits, so he ordered the general to attack the right area, break through Baishan, march into Pulei, and capture Cheshi. The other settled cities and sieges were shocked and responded, so he opened up the Western Region and set up protective guards.
However, only Shun, the king of Yanqi, was loyal but rebellious. He relied on the dangers of their country and killed the guards and officials. The late emperor valued the safety of the people and did not want to go to war, so he sent military commander Banchao to appease the countries to the west of him.
So Ban Chao crossed Congling and reached Xiandu Mountain. He stayed in and out for twenty-two years, but no one disobeyed.
Ban Chao changed the kings of various countries to appease their people.
He did not disturb China or send troops, but made the distant barbarians harmonious and united as one, achieving the purpose of carrying out crusade, clearing away old shame, and avenging the hatred of the soldiers.
"Sima Fa" records: The reward should not exceed one month, so that people can see the benefits of doing good.
Banchao is now granted the title of Marquis of Dingyuan, with a population of thousands of households.
Ban Chao felt that he had lived in a remote place for a long time. He was old and missed his homeland.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan, he wrote to the court and said: I heard that Jiang Taigong was granted the title of Qi State and was buried in Zhou Dynasty for the fifth time. When a fox dies, his head always points toward the mound where he was born, and a horse on earth always clings to the north wind.
Zhou and Qi are both in China, only a thousand miles apart. What's more, I live far away in a remote area. How can I not have the thoughts and feelings of Yifeng and Shouqiu?
The barbarian custom is to fear the young and bully the old.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣超犬马齿歼，常恐年衰，奄忽僵仆，孤魂弃捐。
昔苏武留匈奴中尚十九年，今臣幸得奉节带金银护西域，如自以寿终屯部，诚无所恨，然恐后世或名臣为没西域。
臣不敢望到酒泉郡，但愿生入玉门关。
臣老病衰困，冒死瞽言，谨遣子勇随献物入塞。及臣生在，令勇目见中土。
而超妹同郡曹寿妻昭亦上书请超曰：妾同产兄西域都护定远侯超，幸得以微功特蒙重赏，爵列通侯，位二千石。
天恩殊绝，诚非小臣所当被蒙。
超之始出，志捐躯命，冀立微功，以自陈效。
会陈睦之变，道路隔绝，超以一身转侧绝域，晓譬诸国，因其兵众，每有攻战，辄为先登，身被金夷，不避死亡。
赖蒙陛下神灵，且得延命沙漠，至今积三十年。
骨肉生离，不复相识。
所与相随时人士众，皆已物故。
translation: 
The teeth of dogs and horses in my class are getting smaller and smaller day by day, and I am often afraid of old age, physical weakness, sudden death, and lonely souls wandering in foreign lands.
In the past, Su Wu stayed with the Xiongnu for only nineteen years. Now I hold the talisman festival and the seal to guard the Western Region. If I die at the end of my life, there will be nothing to regret. However, I am afraid that someone in future generations may record the fact that I died in the Western Regions.
I dare not see Jiuquan County, I only hope to enter Yumen Pass alive.
I am old and sick, and my body is weak. I risk my life and say that I would like to send my son Ban Yong to the fortress with the tribute items. While I am still alive, Ban Yong can come back to see China.
Ban Chao's sister, Ban Zhao, wife of Tongjun Cao Shou, also wrote to the court, requesting that Ban Chao be recalled to the country, saying: My elder brother, Ban Chao, the Marquis of Dingyuan, the Protector of the Western Regions, was fortunately rewarded by the emperor for his small meritorious service. He was ranked in the rank of Tonghou and had an official rank of two thousand shi.
Heaven's grace is special and extraordinary, and it is really not something that a small minister should be rewarded for.
When Ban Chao first went to the Western Regions as an envoy, he was determined to sacrifice his family and life, hoping to achieve some small feats in order to repay the favor.
Unexpectedly, he encountered the Chen Mu Incident and the road was blocked. Ban Chao turned around and struggled in a difficult and dangerous foreign place. He used his words to tell the countries in the Western Regions that with the strength of each country's troops, he always moved forward bravely in every offensive and field battle. Although he was seriously injured, he did not escape the danger of death.
Thanks to His Majesty’s spirit, I have been able to continue my life in the desert for thirty years now.
Brothers and sisters are closely related by flesh and blood. After being separated for a long time, they may not recognize each other again.
All the people who went on the mission with him are no longer alive.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
超年最长，今且七十。
衰老被病，头发无黑，两手不仁，耳目不聪明，扶杖乃能行。
虽欲竭尽其力，以报塞天恩，迫于岁暮，犬马齿索。
蛮夷之性，悖逆侮老，而超旦暮入地，久不见代，恐开奸宄之源，生逆乱之心。而卿大夫咸怀一切，莫肯远虑。
如有卒暴，超之气力不能从心，便为上损国家累世之功，下弃忠臣竭力之用，诚可痛也。
故超万里归诚，自陈苦急，延颈逾望，三年于今，未蒙省录。
妾窃闻古者十五受兵，六十还之，亦有休息不任职也。
缘陛下以至孝理天下，得万国之欢心，不遣小国之臣，况超得备侯伯之位，故敢触死为超求衰，丐超余年。
一得生还，复见阙庭，使国永无劳远之虑，西域无仓卒之忧，超得长蒙文王葬骨之恩，子方哀老之惠。
《诗》云： 民亦劳止，汔可小康，惠此中国，以绥四方。
超有书与妾生诀，恐不复相见。
妾诚伤超以壮年竭忠孝于沙漠，疲老则便捐死于旷野，诚可哀怜。
如不蒙救护，超后有一旦之变，冀幸超家得蒙赵母、卫姬先请之贷。
translation: 
Ban Chao is the oldest, nearly seventy years old now.
His body is old and sick, his hair has turned completely white, his hands are numb and inflexible, his ears are deaf, his eyesight is unclear, and he has to use a cane to walk.
Although he wanted to do everything in his power to repay the emperor's kindness, he was forced by his old age and his teeth were about to be exhausted.
The nature of barbarians is to violate the right way and bully the elderly. Ban Chao will die sooner or later, and there will be no one to replace him for a long time. I am afraid that bad guys are waiting for the opportunity and have the intention of committing crimes. However, Dr. Qing is not willing to make any profound considerations.
If a riot suddenly breaks out and Ban Chao is unable to quell it, then the superior government will destroy the country's past achievements and the subordinate government will abandon all the efforts made by loyal ministers. That is really sad!
So it has been three years since Ban Chao, who was thousands of miles away, expressed his pain and anxiety with the sincerity of returning home, and craned his neck to look forward.
It has not yet been inspected by the emperor. I heard that in ancient times, people served at the age of fifteen and were exempted from service at the age of sixty. There were also people who took a break and did not serve.
Because Your Majesty governs the world with filial piety, he wins the favor of all nations and does not forget the ministers of small countries. What's more, Ban Chao was awarded the title of Marquis, so I dared to risk my life to plead for Ban Chao, begging him to live in peace for the rest of his life because of the country.
If Ban Chao can come back alive and see Gong Lique again, the country will never have to worry about labor expeditions, and there will be no worries about sudden uprisings in the Western Regions. Ban Chao will be able to long-term receive the kindness of the emperor for burying the bones like King Wen did, and the compassion for aging like Tian Zifang.
"The Book of Songs: Daya" says: Through labor, ordinary people can achieve a well-off life. First show favor to China, and then stabilize the four directions.
Ban Chao wrote to me to say goodbye before he died. I'm afraid I will never see him again.
I am indeed sad that Ban Chao devoted his loyalty and filial piety to the desert in his prime, but when he was old, he was abandoned and died in the desolate and empty wilderness. This is so sad and pitiful!
If Ban Chao does not receive the emperor's rescue and love, if Ban Chao changes in the future, I hope that Ban Chao's family can be forgiven by the emperor like Zhao's mother and Wei Ji, who were exempted from the crime of being implicated because they reported the matter in advance.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
妾愚戆不知大义，触犯忌讳。
书奏，帝感其言，乃征超还。
超在西域三十一岁。
十四年八月至洛阳，拜为射声校尉。
超素有胸胁疾，既至，病遂加。帝遣中黄门问疾，赐医药。
其年九月卒，年七十一。
朝廷愍惜焉，使者吊祭，赠赗甚厚。
子雄嗣。
初，超被征，以戊己校尉任尚为都护。与超交代。尚谓超曰： 君侯在外国三十余年，而小人猥承君后，任重虑浅，宜有以诲之。
超曰： 年老失智，任君数当大位，岂班超所能及哉！
必不得已，愿进愚言。
塞外吏士，本非孝子顺孙，皆以罪过徙补边屯。
而蛮夷怀鸟兽之心，难养易败。
今君性严急，水清无大鱼，察政不得下和。
宜荡佚简易，宽小过，总大纲而已。
超去后，尚私谓所亲曰： 我以班君当有奇策，今所言平平耳。
translation: 
I am stupid and do not understand justice, and I have violated a taboo.
The memorial was sent up, and the emperor was moved by her words and recalled Ban Chao.
Ban Chao lived in the Western Regions for thirty-one years.
In August of the 14th year of Yongyuan, he returned to Luoyang and was appointed as the captain of Shesheng.
Ban Chao had a disease in his chest and ribs. After returning home, his condition worsened. The emperor sent Zhonghuangmen to check on him and gave him medicine.
He died in September of this year at the age of seventy-one.
The imperial court took pity on him and sent envoys to express condolences and offer him generous rewards.
Ban Chao's son Ban Xiong inherited his title.
Previously, when Ban Chao was summoned back, the imperial court appointed Wuji Colonel Ren Shang as the Protector. When handing over the work, Ren Shang said to Ban Chao: "The prince has been in a foreign country for more than thirty years, and I am ashamed to succeed you. I have great responsibilities and short wits. You should be able to teach me."
Ban Chao said: I am getting old and stupid. If you take up a big position, how can I, Ban Chao, compare with you?
As a last resort, I am willing to say a few words that are not very wise.
The officials and soldiers outside the Great Wall were not filial sons and grandsons in the first place. They were all moved to supplement the troops stationed on the frontier because of their sins.
The barbarians, on the other hand, have an animal heart, which makes them difficult to adopt and easy to do bad things.
Now you have a stern and somewhat impatient nature. If the water is clear, there will be no big fish. If supervision is strict, the people below will not be happy.
You should be tolerant and calm, act simply, deal with minor mistakes leniently, and just stick to the important links.
After Ban Chao left, Ren Shang said privately to his cronies: I thought Ban Chao had some clever ideas, but what he said now was just ordinary remarks.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
尚至数年，而西域反乱，以罪被征，如超所戒。
有三子。长子雄，累迁屯骑校尉。
会叛羌寇三辅，诏雄将五营兵屯长安，就拜京兆尹。
雄卒，子始嗣，尚清河孝王女阴城公主。
主顺帝之姑，贵骄淫乱，与嬖人居帷中，而召始入，使伏床下。
始积怒，永建五年，遂拔刃杀主。
帝大怒，腰斩始，同产皆弃市。
超少子勇。
勇字宜僚，少有父风。
永初元年，西域反叛，以勇为军司马。
与兄雄俱出敦煌，迎都护及西域甲卒而还。
因罢都护。
后西域绝无汉吏十余年。
元初六年，敦煌太守曹宗遣长史索班将千余人屯伊吾，车师前王及鄯善王皆来降班。
后数月，北单于与车师后部遂共攻没班，进击走前王，略有北道。
translation: 
A few years after Ren Shang took office, there was a rebellion in the Western Regions. Ren Shang was recalled because of his guilt, just as Ban Chao warned.
Ban Chao had three sons. The eldest son was named Ban Xiong, who was promoted to the rank of captain of the garrison.
When the Qiang invaded Sanfu, the emperor ordered Ban Xiong to lead five battalions of soldiers and horses to station in Chang'an and appointed him as Jing Zhaoyin.
After Ban Xiong died, his son Ban Shi inherited his position and married Princess Yincheng, the daughter of King Xiao of Qinghe.
Princess Yincheng is the aunt of Emperor Shun, who is arrogant and promiscuous. She was in the curtain with her beloved, and asked Ban Shi to go in and ask him to crawl under the bed.
Ban Shi could not hold back his anger. In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, he drew his sword and killed the princess.
Emperor Shun was furious and had Ban Shi cut in half, and all his people were killed.
Ban Chao's youngest son is named Ban Yong.
◆Ban Yongzhuan, Ban Yong, courtesy name Yi Liao. When he was young, he had the general demeanor of his father, Ban Chao.
In the first year of Yongchu, the Western Regions rebelled against the Han Dynasty, and the imperial court sent Ban Yong to serve as an army commander.
Ban Yong and his brother Ban Xiong both sent troops from Dunhuang to welcome the return of the Duhu and the armored soldiers from the Western Regions.
So he dismissed the governor.
Later, there were no officials from the Han Dynasty in the Western Regions for more than ten years.
In the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Shi Suoban, the governor of Dunhuang Cao Zong, led more than a thousand people to garrison in Yiwu. The former king of Cheshi and the king of Shanshan both surrendered here to Suoban.
A few months later, Bei Shanyu and the rear of the chariot division attacked Soban, drove away the former king, and occupied the road to the north.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
鄯善王急，求救于曹宗，宗因此请出兵五千人击匈奴，报索班之耻，因复取西域。
邓太后召勇诣朝堂会议。
先是，公卿多以为宜闭玉门关，遂弃西域。
勇上议曰：昔孝武皇帝患匈奴强盛，兼总百蛮，以逼障塞。于是开通西域，离其党与，论者以为夺匈奴府藏，断其右臂。
遭王莽篡盗，征求无，胡夷忿毒，遂以背叛。
光武中兴，未遑外事，故匈奴负强，驱率诸国。
及至永平，再攻敦煌，河西诸郡，城门昼闭。
孝明皇帝深惟庙策，乃命虎臣，出征西域，故匈奴远遁，边境得安。
及至永元，莫不内属。
会间者羌乱，西域复绝，北虏遂遣责诸国，备其逋租，高其价值，严以期会。
鄯善、车师皆怀愤怨，思乐事汉，其路无从。
前所以时有叛者，皆由牧养失宜，还为其害故也。
今曹宗徒耻于前负，欲报雪匈奴，而不寻出兵故事，未度当时之宜也。
translation: 
King Shanshan became anxious and asked Cao Zong for help. Cao Zong therefore asked the court to send 5,000 troops to attack the Xiongnu to avenge Soban and recover the Western Regions.
Empress Dowager Deng summoned Ban Yong to the court to attend the meeting.
At first, most of the ministers advocated closing Yumen Pass, so they gave up the Western Region.
Ban Yong went to the memorial and said: In the past, Emperor Xiaowu was worried that the Huns would become powerful and become the commander-in-chief of hundreds of barbarians and force them to invade our borders, so he opened the Western Region to separate their comrades. Public opinion at the time believed that this was equivalent to seizing the Xiongnu's internal organs and cutting off his right arm.
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne and demanded too much from the Western Regions. He was so greedy that Hu Yi was so angry that he betrayed the Han Dynasty.
After Emperor Guangwu was resurrected, he had no time to consider foreign affairs, so the Xiongnu relied on their own strength to drive away others and occupy other countries.
During the Yongping period, they attacked Dunhuang again, and all the counties in Hexi closed their city gates during the day.
Emperor Xiaoming considered the national plan and sent tiger generals to conquer the Western Regions. As a result, the Huns fled far away and the borders were peaceful.
By the Yongyuan period, all the places in the Western Regions had surrendered to the mainland.
Later, when the Qiang people were in rebellion and communication with the Western Regions was cut off, the Northern Xiongnu sent troops to supervise other small countries. Collect evaded rent and taxes, raise the value high, and strictly limit meetings.
Both Shanshan and Cheshi were resentful and wanted to get close to the Han Dynasty, but unfortunately they could not find a way.
It can be seen that there were rebellions in the previous period because the governance work was not appropriate enough, so the opposite effect occurred.
Now Cao Zong just felt the previous humiliation and wanted to retaliate against the Xiongnu to clear up the humiliation. He did not check the historical precedents of sending troops and did not consider the specific situation at that time.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
夫要功荒外，万无一成，若兵连祸结，悔无及已。
况今府藏未充，师无后继，是示弱于远夷，暴短于海内，臣愚以为不可许也。
旧敦煌郡有营兵三百人，今宜复之，复置护西域副校尉，居于敦煌，如永元故事。
又宜遣西域长史将五百人屯楼兰，西当焉耆、龟兹径路，南强鄯善、于窴心胆，北匈奴，东近敦煌。
如此诚便。
尚书问勇曰： 今立副校尉，何以为便？
又置长史屯楼兰，利害云何？
勇对曰： 昔永平之末，始通西域，初遣中郎将居郭煌，后置副校尉于车师，既为胡虏节度，又禁汉人不得有所侵扰。故外夷归心，匈奴畏威。
今鄯善王尤还，汉人外孙，若匈奴得志，则尤还必死。
此等虽同鸟兽，亦知避害。
若出屯楼兰，足以招附其心，愚以为便。
长乐卫尉镡显、廷尉綦母参、司隶校尉崔据难曰： 朝廷前所以弃西域者，以其无益于中国而费难供也。
translation: 
Anyone who wants to make achievements in the wilderness will not succeed. If the army leads to disaster, there will be no regrets.
What's more, the treasury is empty now and there are no reinforcements behind the army. This is exposing one's weakness to the barbarians in the distance and showing one's shortcomings to the mainland. In my humble opinion, I cannot agree.
The old Dunhuang County had 300 troops. It should be restored now, and the deputy captain to protect the Western Region should be resettled and live in Dunhuang, just like it was done during the Yongyuan period.
You should also send the chief commander of the Western Regions to lead 500 people to garrison in Loulan, to block the approach of Yanqi and Qiuci to the west, to embolden Shanshan and Yuxing to the south, to defend against the Xiongnu to the north, and to connect Dunhuang to the east.
This is convenient.
Shangshu asked Ban Yong: Now that we have set up a deputy captain, who is suitable?
What's the benefit of having the chief official stationed in Loulan?
Ban Yong replied: In the past, in the last years of Yongping, when the Western Regions were opened, the Zhonglang General was first stationed in Dunhuang, and later the deputy captain was stationed in Che Division. On the one hand, he controlled the Hulu, and on the other hand, he prohibited the Han people from intruding. Therefore, the foreign barbarians surrendered willingly, and the Huns were also afraid of our power.
Now Shanshan King You Huan is the grandson of the Han people. If the Xiongnu succeeds, You Huan will be the first to bear the brunt and must die.
Although these people are similar to birds and beasts, they also know how to avoid harm.
If troops are stationed in Loulan, it will be enough for them to surrender. I think it will be more convenient.
Changle Weiwei Danxian, Tingwei Qi Wushen, and Sili Xiaowei Cui Ju retorted: The imperial court wanted to abandon the Western Regions in the past because the Western Regions were of no benefit to China and funds were difficult to provide.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
今车师已属匈奴，鄯善不可保信，一旦反复，班将能保北虏不为边害乎？
勇对曰： 今中国置州牧者，以禁郡县奸猾盗贼也。
若州牧能保盗贼不起者，臣亦愿以要斩保匈奴之不为边害也。
今通西域则虏势必弱，虏势弱则为患微矣。孰与归其府藏，续其断臂哉！
今置校尉以抚西域，设长史以招怀诸国，若弃而不立，则西域望绝。
望绝之后，屈就北虏，缘边之郡将受困害，恐河西城门必复有昼闭之儆矣。今不廓开朝廷之德，而拘屯戍之费，若北虏遂炽，岂安边久长之策哉！ 太尉属毛轸难曰： 今若置校尉，则西域骆驿遣使，求索无，与之则费难供，不与则失其心。
一旦为匈奴所迫，当复求救，则为役大矣。
勇对曰： 今设以西域归匈奴，而使其恩德大汉，不为抄盗则可矣。
如其不然，则因西域租入之饶，兵马之众，以扰动缘边，是为富仇雠之财，增暴夷之势也。
置校尉者，宣威布德，以系诸国内向之心，以疑匈奴觊觎之情，而无财费耗国之虑也。
且西域之人无它求索，其来入者，不过禀食而已。
今若拒绝，势归北属，夷虏并力以寇并、凉，则中国之费不止千亿。
置之诚便。
translation: 
Now that the charioteer belongs to the Huns, Shanshan is not reliable. Once there is a reversal, can you guarantee that the Huns in the north will not become a future trouble on the frontier?
Ban Yong replied: China now has state animal husbandry in order to prevent cunning thieves from appearing in counties and counties to cause trouble. If the state animal husbandry can guarantee that it will not become a border hazard.
If the Western Region is opened, thieves will not rise up, and I am willing to cut in half to ensure that the power of the Xiongnu will inevitably weaken. If the enemy's power weakens, then the possibility of harm will be reduced.
Now, if we set up a school captain to defend the Western Regions and a commander-in-chief to recruit all the countries to surrender, if we give up and ignore them, wouldn't it be equivalent to returning their internal organs and replacing their broken arms?
Then the Western Region will be disappointed, hope will be cut off, and they will surrender to the Northern Huns, and the surrounding counties will be trapped. I am afraid that the Hexi City Gate will be closed again during the day.
Now we do not widely publicize the virtues of the imperial court, but only see how much money it costs to station the army. If the Northern Huns were more powerful, would the border fortress be able to enjoy long-term peace and stability? The Taiwei, who favored Mao Zhen, retorted: "If we set up a school captain, then the Western Regions will continue to send envoys, and there will be no end to the requests for money and food. Give it to him, then it will be difficult to pay, and if you don't give it, they will lose their wish."
Once they were forced by the Huns, of course they came to ask for help, and things would get serious.
Ban Yong replied: It would be good if the Western Regions were surrendered to the Xiongnu so that they could appreciate the kindness of the Han and refrain from invading bandits.
If this is not the case, then because the Western Region has a lot of tax revenue and a large number of soldiers and horses, they will cause trouble on the border in the future, which will make the enemy rich and increase the power of the powerful enemy.
The purpose of setting up school captains is nothing more than to promote the might and virtue of the Han Dynasty, maintain the desire of all countries to surrender to the mainland, and restrain the Xiongnu's aggressive ambitions, without worrying about consuming national financial resources.
What's more, the people in the Western Regions don't have high demands. They just come here to get some food.
Now if they reject them all, they will definitely attach themselves to the Northern Barbarians and let them unite to invade Bingzhou and Liangzhou. Then China will spend more than 100 billion.
I think it's better to set it up.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
于是从勇议，复郭煌郡营兵三百人，置西域副校尉居敦煌。
虽复羁縻西域，然亦未能出屯。
其后匈奴果数与车师共入寇抄，河西大被其害。
延光二年夏，复以勇为西域长史，将兵五百人出屯柳中。
明年正月，勇至楼兰，以鄯善归附，特加三绥。
而龟兹王白英犹自疑未下，勇开以恩信，白英乃率姑墨、温宿自缚诣勇降。
勇因发其兵步骑万余人到车师前王庭，击走匈奴伊蠡王于伊和谷，收得前部五千余人，于是前部始复开通。
还，屯田柳中。
四年秋，勇发敦煌、张掖、酒泉六千骑及鄯善、疏勒、车师前部兵击后部王军就，大破之。
首虏八千余人，马畜五万余头。
捕得军就及匈奴持节使者，将至索班没处斩之，以报其耻，传首京师。
永建元年，更立后部故王子加特奴为王。
勇又使别校诛斩东且弥王，亦更立其种人为王，于是车师六国悉平。
其冬，勇发诸国兵击匈奴呼衍王，呼衍王亡走，其众二万余人皆降。
translation: 
So the imperial court listened to Ban Yong's advice and restored the Dunhuang County camp to 300 troops, and appointed the deputy captain of the Western Regions to live in Dunhuang.
Although the Western Region was under control again, it was still unable to get out of the garrison area.
Later, the Xiongnu and the charioteers invaded the border areas many times, and Hexi suffered great harm.
In the summer of the second year of Yanguang, the imperial court sent Ban Yong to be the long history of the Western Regions and led 500 soldiers to station in Liuzhong.
In the first month of the second year, Ban Yong arrived in Loulan. Because Shanshan had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, the imperial court specially added three ribbons to Ban Yong as a reward.
But Baiying, the king of Qiuci, was still hesitant. Ban Yong used the grace and power of the Han Dynasty to enlighten him, so Baiying led Gumo and Wensu and tied himself up to surrender to Ban Yong.
Ban Yong then mobilized more than 10,000 of his infantry and cavalry to go to King Qian of Che Division, drove away King Yili of the Xiongnu from Yihe Valley, and captured more than 5,000 people in the front, so the front was opened again.
After returning, he still stayed in Liuzhong, defending and farming at the same time.
In the autumn of the fourth year, Ban Yong mobilized 6,000 cavalry from Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Jiuquan and the front troops from Shanshan, Shule, and Che divisions to attack the king's army in the rear, and defeated them severely.
More than 8,000 people were beheaded and captured, and more than 50,000 horses and livestock were captured.
The captured soldiers and the Xiongnu envoys took them to the place where Suoban died and beheaded them, avenged Suoban and sent the head to the capital.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, the late prince Jiatnu was appointed king.
Ban Yong sent another general to kill King Dongqimi, and appointed another of his own kind as king. From then on, all the six kingdoms of Cheshi were pacified.
In the winter of the same year, Ban Yong mobilized soldiers from various countries to attack King Huyan of the Xiongnu. King Huyan fled and more than 20,000 of his men surrendered.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
捕得单于从兄，勇使加特奴手斩之，以结车师，匈奴之隙。
北单于自将万余骑入后部，至金且谷，勇使假司马曹俟驰救之。
单于引去，俊追斩其贵人骨都侯，于是呼衍王遂徙居枯梧河上。
是后车师无复虏迹，城郭皆安。
惟焉耆王元孟未降。
二年，勇上请攻元孟，于是遗敦煌太守张朗将河西四郡兵三千人配勇。
因发诸国兵四万余人，分骑为两道击之。
勇从南道，朗从北道，约期俱至焉耆。
而朗先有罪，欲徼功自赎，遂先期至爵离关，遣司马将兵前战，首虏二千余人。
元孟惧诛，逆遣使乞降，张朗径入焉耆受降而还。
元孟竟不肯面缚，惟遣子诣阙贡献。
朗遂得免诛。
勇以后期，征下狱，免。后卒于家。
梁字伯威，北地弋居人也。
父讽，历州宰。
translation: 
After catching Shan Yu's cousin, Ban Yong asked Jiat Nu to kill him with his own hands, deepening the feud between Che Shi and the Huns.
Beidan Yu himself led more than 10,000 cavalry into the rear, and when they arrived at Jinqie Valley, Ban Yong sent fake Sima Cao Jun to rescue them.
Shanyu retreated, Cao Jun pursued and killed his nobleman Guduhou, and King Huyan moved to the Kuwu River.
From then on, there was no trace of the Xiongnu in the chariot division, and the city was very stable.
Only Yuanmeng, the king of Yanqi, has not yet surrendered.
The next year, Ban Yong wrote a letter requesting to attack Yuan and Meng, so the imperial court sent Zhang Lang, the governor of Dunhuang, to lead 3,000 soldiers from Hexi County to cooperate with Ban Yong.
Ban Yong mobilized more than 40,000 soldiers from various countries and divided them into two groups to attack.
Ban Yong walked from the south road, Zhang Lang walked from the north road, and agreed to meet at Yanqi on a date.
However, Zhang Lang was guilty first and wanted to make atonement, so he rushed to Jue Liguan first. Sima was sent to lead troops to attack the front station and captured more than 2,000 enemy people.
Yuan Meng was afraid of beheading, so he sent an envoy to ask for surrender. Zhang Lang went directly to Yanqi and surrendered.
Yuan Meng actually refused to be tied up in person, and only sent his son to the court to pay tribute.
Zhang Lang was pardoned from the death penalty.
Because Ban Yong did not arrive as scheduled, he was convicted and imprisoned. He was pardoned soon after, and later died at home.
◆In the biography of Liang Jin, Liang Jin was named Bowei and was a native of Yiju in the north.
His father, Liang Xi, served successively as governor of the state.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
永元元年，车骑将军窦宪出征匈奴，除讽为军司马，令先赍金帛使北单于，宣国威德，其归附者万余人。
后坐失宪意，髡输武威，武威太守承旨杀之。
窦氏既灭，和帝知其为宪所诬，征，除为郎中。
有勇气，常慷慨好功名。
初为车骑将军邓鸿司马，再迁，延平元年拜西域副校尉。
行至河西，会西域诸国反叛，攻都护任尚于疏勒。
尚上书求救，诏将河西四郡羌胡五千骑驰赴之，未至而尚已得解。
会征尚还，以骑都尉段禧为都护，西域长史赵博为骑都尉。
禧、博守它乾城。
它乾城小，以为不可固，乃谲说龟兹王白霸，欲入共保其城，白霸许之。
吏人固谏，白霸不听，懂既入，遣将急迎禧、博，合军八九千人。
龟兹吏人并叛其王，而与温宿、姑墨数万兵反，共围城。
等出战，大破之。
连兵数月，胡众败走，乘胜追击，凡斩首万余级，获生口数千人，骆驼畜产数万头，龟兹乃定。
translation: 
In the first year of Yongyuan, Dou Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry, went to conquer the Xiongnu. Liang Xi was granted the title of Army Sima, and he was asked to bring gold and silk as an envoy to Bei Chanyu to promote the country's might and virtue. More than ten thousand people joined him.
Later, because he violated Dou Xian's will, he was exiled to Wuwei, and the prefect of Wuwei ordered to kill him.
After the Dou family was destroyed, Emperor He knew that Liang Xi had been unjustly killed by Dou Xian, so he summoned him as a doctor.
Liang Jin was courageous and generous in his fame.
At first, he was the Sima of Deng Hong, the chariot and cavalry general. He was promoted again and became the deputy captain of the Western Regions in the first year of Yanping.
When Liang Jin went to Hexi, he encountered the rebellion of various countries in the Western Regions. He attacked the capital and protected Shang Yu in Shule.
Ren Shang wrote a letter asking for help, and the court summoned Commander Liang Jin to lead five thousand Qiang and Hu cavalry from the four counties of Hexi to run to the rescue. However, Liang Jin did not arrive and Ren Shang had already rescued the siege.
Just when Ren Shang was called back, the imperial court appointed Duan Xi, the Cavalry Commander, as the Protector, and Zhao Bo, the chief historian of the Western Regions, as the Cavalry Commander.
Duan and Zhao guarded Qiancheng.
Qiancheng was very small, and Liang Jin thought it was not very strong, so he cunningly persuaded Bai Ba, the king of Qiuci, to come in and protect the city together. Bai Ba agreed.
The officials tried to dissuade him, but Bai Ba refused to listen. After Liang Jin entered the city, he sent generals to greet Duan Xi and Zhao Bo, with a total of eight or nine thousand sergeants.
The officials of Qiuci all rebelled against their king, and they rebelled with tens of thousands of soldiers from Wensu and Gumo, and together they surrounded the city.
Liang Jin and others came out to fight and defeated them.
After several months of continuous fighting, the Hu soldiers were defeated and fled. Liang Jin took advantage of the victory and pursued him, beheading more than 10,000 people, capturing thousands of prisoners, and raising tens of thousands of camels, before Kucha was pacified.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
而道路尚隔。檄书不通。
岁余，朝廷忧之。
公卿议者以为西域阻远，数有背叛，吏士屯田，其费无已。
永初元年，遂罢都护，遣骑都尉王弘发关中兵迎、禧、博及伊吾卢、柳中屯田吏士。
二年春，还至敦煌。
会众羌反叛，朝廷大发兵西击之，逆诏留为诸军援。
至张掖日勒。
羌诸种万余人攻亭侯，杀略吏人。
进兵击，大破之，乘胜追至昭武，虏遂散走，其能脱者十二三。
乃至姑臧，羌大豪三百余人诣降，并慰譬遣还故地，河西四郡复安。
受诏当屯金城，闻羌转寇三辅，迫近园陵，即引兵赴击之，转战武功美阳关。
临阵被创，不顾，连破走之。尽还得所掠生口，获马畜财物甚众，羌遂奔散。朝延嘉之，数玺书劳勉，委以西方事，令为诸军节度。
三年冬，南单于与乌桓大人俱反。
translation: 
But the road is far away and the letter is inaccessible.
For more than a year, the court was worried.
The people discussed by the officials believed that the Western Region was too far away, there were many betrayals, the officials were working in the fields, and there was no limit to the waste of the Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Yongchu, he dismissed the captain and sent the cavalry captain Wang Hong to mobilize Guanzhong soldiers to meet Liang Jin, Duan Xi, Zhao Bo, and the officials and soldiers from Yiwulu and Liuzhong.
In the spring of the second year, I returned to Dunhuang.
When the Qiang rebelled, the imperial court sent a large number of troops to attack westward, and ordered Liang Jin to stay as backup for the various armies.
Liang Jin arrived at Zhangye Rile.
More than ten thousand people of various Qiang tribes attacked Tinghou, killing and plundering officials and people.
Liang Jin went out to attack, defeated the Qiang soldiers, and took advantage of the victory to pursue Zhaowu. The captives fled in all directions, and only 20-30% of those who could escape.
When they arrived in Guzang, more than 300 Qiang magnates went to Liang Jin to surrender. Liang Jin comforted them and sent them back to their hometowns. The four counties in Hexi were stabilized again.
Liang Jin was ordered to station in Jincheng. When he heard that the Qiang invaded Sanfu again and approached Yuanling, he immediately led his troops to attack and moved to Wugong Meiyang Pass.
Liang Jin was injured during the battle, and he chased for days regardless of his own safety. He released all the captives and obtained a lot of horses, livestock and property. The Qiang people fled and dispersed. The imperial court commended him and comforted him with seals several times. He was also entrusted with Western affairs and ordered him to conduct military exercises.
In the winter of the third year, both Nan Danyu and Lord Wuhuan rebelled.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
以大司农何熙行车骑将军事，中郎将宠雄为副，将羽林五校营士，及发缘边十郡兵二万余人，又辽东太守耿夔率将鲜卑种众共击之，诏行度辽将军事。
庞雄与耿夔共击匈奴奥鞬日逐王，破之。
单于乃自将围中郎将耿种于美稷，连战数月，攻之转急，种移檄求救。
明年正月，将八千余人驰往赴之，至属国故城，与匈奴左将军、乌桓大人战，破斩其渠帅，杀三千余人，虏其妻子，获财物甚众。
单于复自将七八千骑迎攻，围。
被甲奔击，所向皆破，虏遂引还虎泽。
三月，何熙军到五原曼柏，暴疾，不能进，遣庞雄与及耿种步骑万六千人攻虎泽。
连营稍前，卑于惶怖，遣左奥鞬日逐王诣乞降，乃大陈兵受之。
单于脱帽徒跣，面缚稽颡，纳质。
会熙卒于师，即拜度辽将军。
庞雄还为大鸿胪。
雄，巴郡人，有勇略，称为名将。
明年，安定、北地、上郡皆被羌寇，谷贵人流，不能自立。
诏发边兵迎三郡太守，使将吏人徙扶风界。
即遣南单于兄子优孤涂奴将兵迎之。
既还，以涂奴接其家属有劳，辄授以羌侯印绶，坐专擅，征下狱，抵罪。
明年，校书郎马融上书讼与护羌校尉庞参，有诏原刑。
语在《庞参传》。
会叛羌寇三辅，关中盗贼起，拜谒者，将兵击之。
至胡县，病卒。
translation: 
The imperial court appointed Grand Secretary Nong He Xi as the general of chariots and cavalry, and General Pang Xiong of Zhonglang as deputy general, leading the battalions of the five schools of Yulin. At the same time, he mobilized more than 20,000 troops from the ten neighboring counties. Geng Kui, the prefect of Liaodong, was sent to lead the Xianbei people to attack together, and ordered Liang Jin to carry out the task of conquering the Liao generals.
Pang Xiong and Geng Kui jointly attacked the Huns' Aoge Jianri Zhuwang and defeated them.
Shanyu personally led the army to surround Zhonglang's general Geng Zhong in Meiji. They fought for several months. When the attack became more urgent, Geng Zhong sent a letter asking for help.
In the first month of the next year, Liang Jin led more than 8,000 people to rescue quickly and arrived at the old city of the vassal state. He fought with General Zuo and Master Wuhuan of the Xiongnu, beheaded their leaders, killed more than 3,000 people, captured their wives, and gained a lot of property.
Chanyu then led seven or eight thousand cavalry to attack and surrounded Liang Jin.
Liang Jin put on his armor and rushed to attack, but was defeated in every direction. The captives then led their troops back to Huze.
In March, He Xi's army arrived at Manbai, Wuyuan. It was seriously ill and could not advance. He sent Pang Xiong, Liang Jin and Geng Zhong infantry and cavalry with 16,000 troops to attack Huze.
The company camp advanced slightly, but Chanyu was afraid and sent King Zuo Aoge and Jianri Zhu to Liang Jin to surrender. Liang Jin then led Chen Bing to accept the surrender.
The Chanyu was bald and barefoot, tied himself up, kowtowed, and paid hostages.
When He Xi died in the army, the imperial court worshiped Liang Jin as the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty.
Pang Xiong became Da Honglu.
Pang Xiong was from Bajun. He was brave and strategic and was known as a famous general.
In the second year, Anding, Beidi, and Shangjun were all invaded by the Qiang people. The price of grain was very high, and the people were scattered and unable to stand on their own feet.
The imperial court ordered Gao to send border troops to meet the governors of the three counties and move the officials to the border of Fufeng.
Liang Jin immediately sent Nan Shanyu's brother Yougunu to lead troops to meet him.
After returning, Liang Jin believed that the slave had merit in taking over his family, so he awarded him the seal of the Marquis of Qiang. Because he committed the crime of specializing in specialties, he was summoned to prison to atone for his crime.
The next year, the school secretary Lang Ma Rong wrote a letter accusing Liang Jin and the Qiang school captain Pang Can, and they were punished by imperial edict.
The words are in "The Biography of Pang Shen".
When the rebel Qiang invaded Sanfu and bandits arose in Guanzhong, the imperial court worshiped Liang Jin as its envoy and led troops to fight.
When he arrived in Hu County, he died of illness.


