Chunk 0: 
original: 
秦始皇帝者，秦庄襄王子也。
庄襄王为秦质子於赵，见吕不韦姬，悦而取之，生始皇。
以秦昭王四十八年正月生於邯郸。
及生，名为政，姓赵氏。
年十三岁，庄襄王死，政代立为秦王。
当是之时，秦地已并巴、蜀、汉中，越宛有郢，置南郡矣；北收上郡以东，有河东、太原、上党郡；东至荥阳，灭二周，置三川郡。
吕不韦为相，封十万户，号曰文信侯。
招致宾客游士，欲以并天下。
李斯为舍人。蒙骜、王齮、麃公等为将军。
王年少，初即位，委国事大臣。
晋阳反，元年，将军蒙骜击定之。
二年，麃公将卒攻卷，斩首三万。
三年，蒙骜攻韩，取十三城。
王齮死。
十月，将军蒙骜攻魏氏畼有诡。
岁大饥。
四年，拔畼有诡。
三月，军罢。
秦质子归自赵，赵太子出归国。
translation: 
The First Emperor of Qin was the son of King Zhuangxiang of Qin.
When King Zhuang Xiang was a hostage of Qin in Zhao, he saw Lu Buwei's concubine and liked her very much, so he married her and gave birth to the first emperor.
The First Emperor was born in Handan in the first month of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao of Qin.
When he was born, he was named Zheng and his surname was Zhao.
At the age of thirteen, King Zhuang Xiang died, and Zheng succeeded him as King of Qin.
At that time, the Qin State had annexed Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, crossed Wan, occupied Ying, and established Nanjun; went north to the east of Shangjun, and occupied Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang counties; east to Rongyang, eliminated the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties, and established Sanchuan County.
Lu Buwei became prime minister, granted a fief of 100,000 households, and was named Marquis Wenxin.
Recruiting guests and tourists, intending to annex the world.
Li Si was Shiren, and Meng Ao, Wang Jue, Hegong and others were generals.
The King of Qin was young and in the early days of his accession to the throne, state affairs were left to the ministers.
Jinyang rebelled, and in the first year of Qin Wangzheng's reign, General Meng Ao put down the rebellion.
In the second year, Duke He led his army to attack Juanyi and killed 30,000 people.
In three years, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
Wang Ye is dead.
In the tenth month, General Meng Ao attacked Wei's Yi and Yougui.
This year the food harvest failed.
In four years, he conquered Yi and Yougui.
In March, the troops were withdrawn.
The hostages of Qin returned from Zhao, and the prince of Zhao left Qin and returned to Zhao.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
十月庚寅，蝗蟲从东方来，蔽天。
天下疫。
百姓内粟千石，拜爵一级。
五年，将军骜攻魏，定酸枣、燕、虚、长平、雍丘、山阳城，皆拔之，取二十城。
初置东郡。
冬雷。
六年，韩、魏、赵、卫、楚共击秦，取寿陵。
秦出兵，五国兵罢。
拔卫，迫东郡，其君角率其支属徙居野王，阻其山以保魏之河内。
七年，彗星先出东方，见北方，五月见西方。
将军骜死。
以攻龙、孤、庆都，还兵攻汲。
彗星复见西方十六日。
夏太后死。
八年，王弟长安君成蟜将军击赵，反，死屯留，军吏皆斩死，迁其民於临洮。
将军壁死，卒屯留、蒲鶮反，戮其尸。
河鱼大上，轻车重马东就食。
嫪毐封为长信侯。
予之山阳地，令毐居之。
translation: 
In October Gengyin, locusts flew from the east and covered the sky.
Plague in the world.
The common people paid a thousand stones of corn to pay one level of nobility.
In the fifth year, General Meng Ao attacked the Wei State and pacified the cities of Suanzao, Yanyi, Xuyi, Changping, Yongqiu, and Shanyang. They all conquered them by force, and captured twenty cities in total.
Start setting up East County.
Thunder in winter.
In six years, South Korea, Wei, Zhao, Wei, and Chu attacked Qin together and captured Shouling.
Qin sent troops, and the armies of the five countries withdrew.
The Qin State conquered the Wei State and invaded Dongjun. Wei Junjiao led his relatives to move to Yewang, relying on the mountain dangers to defend the Hanoi area within the Wei State.
In seven years, the comet first appeared in the east. Appeared again in the north. Appears in the West in May.
General Meng Ao died.
It was because he attacked Longyi, Guyi and Qingdu, and then returned to attack Jiyi.
The comet appeared in the west for another sixteen days.
Queen Mother Xia is dead.
In the eighth year, Zhao Chengyu, the younger brother of King Zhao Zheng of Qin, led an army to attack Zhao. Tunliu rebelled. As a result, all his officers were killed and the people there were moved to Lintao.
The general who came to attack Cheng Xi died, and the soldier Pu Hao who stayed in the camp rebelled again and died in battle. After his death, he was tortured by whipping his body.
Fish from the Yellow River rushed to the shore in large numbers, and people drove carriages to the east to find food.
Lao Ai was granted the title of Marquis Changxin.
Give him the Shanyang region to live in.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
宫室车马衣服苑囿驰猎恣毐。
事无小大皆决於毐。
又以河西太原郡更为毐国。
九年，彗星见，或竟天。
攻魏垣、蒲阳。
四月，上宿雍。
己酉，王冠，带剑。
长信侯毐作乱而觉，矫王御玺及太后玺以发县卒及卫卒、官骑、戎翟君公、舍人，将欲攻蕲年宫为乱。
王知之，令相国昌平君、昌文君发卒攻毐。
战咸阳，斩首数百，皆拜爵，及宦者皆在战中，亦拜爵一级。
毐等败走。
即令国中：有生得毐，赐钱百万；杀之，五十万。
尽得毐等。
卫尉竭、内史肆、佐弋竭、中大夫令齐等二十人皆枭首。
车裂以徇，灭其宗。
及其舍人，轻者为鬼薪。
及夺爵迁蜀四千馀家，家房陵。
四月，寒冻，有死者。
translation: 
There are no restrictions on Lao Ai in terms of palaces, carriages and horses, clothing, gardens, and hunting.
All matters, big or small, are decided by Lao Ai.
Hexi and Taiyuan counties were also changed into feudal states of Lao Ai.
In the ninth year, a comet appeared, sometimes shining brightly into the sky.
Attack Yuanyi and Puyang of Wei State.
In April, King Qin stayed in Yongdi.
In Jiyou, the King of Qin held a crown ceremony and wore a sword.
The conspiracy of Changxin Hou Lao Ai to cause rebellion was discovered, so she fraudulently used the seals of the King of Qin and the Queen Mother to mobilize the army and guards of the county, national cavalry, Rong Zhai leaders, and She people, planning to attack Qinian Palace and launch a rebellion.
When the King of Qin learned of the news, he sent his prime ministers Changping Jun and Changwen Jun to mobilize soldiers to attack Lao'ai.
In the battle at Xianyang, hundreds of people were killed and all received titles. Eunuchs who participated in the battle also received first-class titles.
Lao Ai and others were defeated and fled.
The King of Qin then issued an order throughout the country: Anyone who captured Lao Ai alive would be rewarded one million; anyone who killed Lao Ai would be rewarded five hundred thousand.
Lao Ai and others were all captured.
Twenty people, including Wei Wei Jie, Nei Shisi, Zuo Yi Jie, and Zhongda Fu Ling Qi, were all beheaded and hung.
They also cut their bodies into pieces and paraded them around, wiping out their clans.
Lao Ai's family members were punished for minor crimes by serving as ghost slaves.
More than 4,000 people who had their titles removed and moved to Shu lived in Fangling.
It's so cold this month that some people freeze to death.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
杨端和攻衍氏。
彗星见西方，又见北方，从斗以南八十日。
十年，相国吕不韦坐嫪毐免。
桓齮为将军。
齐、赵来置酒。
齐人茅焦说秦王曰： 秦方以天下为事，而大王有迁母太后之名，恐诸侯闻之，由此倍秦也。
秦王乃迎太后於雍而入咸阳，复居甘泉宫。
大索，逐客，李斯上书说，乃止逐客令。
李斯因说秦王，请先取韩以恐他国，於是使斯下韩。
韩王患之。与韩非谋弱秦。
大梁人尉缭来，说秦王曰： 以秦之彊，诸侯譬如郡县之君，臣但恐诸侯合从，翕而出不意，此乃智伯、夫差、湣王之所以亡也。
原大王毋爱财物，赂其豪臣，以乱其谋，不过亡三十万金，则诸侯可尽。
秦王从其计，见尉缭亢礼，衣服食饮与缭同。
缭曰： 秦王为人，蜂准，长目，挚鸟膺，豺声，少恩而虎狼心，居约易出人下，得志亦轻食人。
我布衣，然见我常身自下我。
诚使秦王得志於天下，天下皆为虏矣。
不可与久游。
乃亡去。
秦王觉，固止，以为秦国尉，卒用其计策。
而李斯用事。
translation: 
Yang Duanhe attacked Yanshi.
The comet appeared in the west and then in the north, following the Beidou as it moved southward for eighty days.
Ten years later, the Prime Minister Lu Buwei was convicted of Lao Ai's involvement and was removed from the post of Prime Minister.
Huan  was made general.
The envoys from Qi and Zhao came to prepare a banquet with wine.
Mao Jiao, a native of Qi State, advised the King of Qin: The State of Qin is taking running the world as its own responsibility, and the King has the reputation of banishing his mother and the Queen Mother. I am afraid that the princes of various countries will hear about this and rebel against the State of Qin.
The King of Qin went to Yongdi to welcome the Queen Mother, returned to Xianyang, and asked her to live in Ganquan Palace again.
The King of Qin carried out large-scale raids and expelled guests from the vassal states. Li Si wrote a letter to dissuade him, and the King of Qin revoked the order to expel the guests.
He took the opportunity to advise King Qin. He first conquered Korea and made other vassal states fearful. So King Qin sent Li Si to attack South Korea.
The King of Han was very worried and discussed with Han Fei to weaken Qin's power.
Wei Liao, a native of Daliang, came to Qin and advised the king of Qin: With the great power of Qin, the princes are like the monarchs of a county. But I am worried that the princes will unite and attack Qin by surprise. This is why Zhibo, Fucha and King Min perished.
I hope that the king will not be stingy with money, bribe their powerful ministers, and destroy their plans. The loss will only be 300,000 catties of gold, and all the princes will be wiped out.
The King of Qin followed his advice and treated Wei Liao with equal etiquette every time he met with him. His clothes and food were also the same as Wei Liao's.
Wei Liao said: King Qin has a high nose, slender eyes, a chest like a bird of prey, and a voice like a jackal. He is mean and ungrateful, and his heart is like a tiger or a wolf. He is prone to humility when he is in poverty, and he is easy to devour others when he is successful.
I am a commoner, but when they receive me, they are often willing to be inferior to me.
If King Qin succeeds in conquering the world, everyone in the world will become his captives.
I can't get along with him for a long time.
Wei Liao ran away.
The King of Qin found out and firmly retained him, making him a captain of the Qin State, and finally adopted his strategy.
At this time, Li Si was in charge of the government.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十一年，王翦、桓齮、杨端和攻鄴，取九城。
王翦攻阏与、橑杨，皆并为一军。
翦将十八日，军归斗食以下，什推二人从军取鄴安阳，桓齮将。
十二年，文信侯不韦死，窃葬。
其舍人临者，晋人也逐出之；秦人六百石以上夺爵，迁；五百石以下不临，迁，勿夺爵。
自今以来，操国事不道如嫪毐、不韦者籍其门，视此。
秋，复嫪毐舍人迁蜀者。
当是之时，天下大旱，六月至八月乃雨。
十三年，桓齮攻赵平阳，杀赵将扈辄，斩首十万。
王之河南。
正月，彗星见东方。
十月，桓齮攻赵。
十四年，攻赵军於平阳，取宜安，破之，杀其将军。
桓齮定平阳、武城。
韩非使秦，秦用李斯谋，留非，非死云阳。
translation: 
In the eleventh year, Wang Jian, Huan , and Yang Duanhe attacked Ye Yi and captured nine cities.
Wang Jian attacked Dinglanyu and Puyang, and combined all the soldiers into one army.
Wang Jian took command of the entire army. After eighteen days, he deported the useless personnel in the army who were below the level of fighting, and elected two out of ten people to join the army. Huan  led the troops to capture Yeyi and Puyang.
In the twelfth year, Wenxinhou Lu Buwei died and was buried privately.
If Lu Buwei's family members come to mourn, if they are Jin people, they will be expelled; if they are Qin people, those with a salary of more than 600 shi will have their title removed and moved away from their old residence. If no one comes to mourn him with a salary of less than 500 shi, they will also move away from their old residence without losing their title.
From then on, those who govern the country's political affairs, like Lao Ai and Lu Buwei, are rebellious and unruly, and their whole family will be confiscated, and they will be dealt with in this way.
In autumn, Lao'ai's family members who were supposed to move to Shu were pardoned.
At that time, there was a severe drought for six months, and it didn't rain until August.
In the thirteenth year, Huan  attacked Pingyang of the State of Zhao, killed the general of the State of Zhao, Hu Zou, and beheaded 100,000 people.
King Zhao fled to Henan.
In the first month of the year, comets appear in the east.
In October, Huan  attacked Zhao.
In the fourteenth year, he attacked the Zhao army in Pingyang, captured Yi'an, defeated the Zhao army and killed its general.
Huan  pacified Pingyang and Wucheng.
Han Fei went to Qin as an envoy, and Qin adopted Li Si's plan and detained Han Fei in Qin. Han Fei died in Yunyang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
韩王请为臣。
十五年，大兴兵，一军至鄴，一军至太原，取狼孟。
地动。
十六年九月，发卒受地韩南阳假守腾。
初令男子书年。
魏献地於秦。
秦置丽邑。
十七年，内史腾攻韩，得韩王安，尽纳其地，以其地为郡，命曰颍川。
地动。
华阳太后卒。
民大饥。
十八年，大兴兵攻赵，王翦将上地，下井陉，端和将河内，羌瘣伐赵，端和围邯郸城。
十九年，王翦、羌瘣尽定取赵地东阳，得赵王。
引兵欲攻燕，屯中山。
秦王之邯郸，诸尝与王生赵时母家有仇怨，皆阬之。
秦王还，从太原、上郡归。
始皇帝母太后崩。
赵公子嘉率其宗数百人之代，自立为代王，东与燕合兵，军上谷。
大饥。
translation: 
The King of Han requested to be a vassal of Qin.
In the fifteenth year, the State of Qin sent out a large number of troops. One army arrived in Yeyi and another army arrived in Taiyuan and captured Langmeng.
An earthquake occurs.
In September of the 16th year, troops were sent to take over the Nanyang area of ​​South Korea, and Teng temporarily acted as the county governor.
Men were ordered to register their age.
Wei State donated land to Qin State.
Qin established Liyi.
In the seventeenth year, Neishiteng attacked South Korea, captured Han Wangan, annexed all South Korean territory, and set up a county in its territory, named Yingchuan.
An earthquake occurs.
Queen Mother Huayang died.
The people suffered from severe famine.
In the eighteenth year, a large number of troops were sent to attack the State of Zhao. Wang Jian led the soldiers from Shangdi to capture Jingxing. Yang Duanhe led the Hanoi soldiers, Qiang Yu also led his army to attack Zhao, and Yang Duanhe besieged Handan City.
In the 19th year, Wang Jian and Qiang You all captured and pacified the Dongyang area of ​​​​Zhao and captured the king of Zhao.
He led his troops to prepare to attack Yan State and stationed his troops in Zhongshan.
When the King of Qin came to Handan, he killed all those who had a grudge against his mother's family when he was born in the State of Zhao.
The King of Qin returned to Qin from Taiyuan and Shangjun.
The Empress Dowager, the mother of the First Emperor, passed away.
Prince Jia of the State of Zhao led several hundred people from his clan to Dai, proclaimed himself King of Dai, and united with the army of the State of Yan eastward, stationed in Shanggu.
A severe famine occurred during this year.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
二十年，燕太子丹患秦兵至国，恐，使荆轲刺秦王。
秦王觉之，体解轲以徇，而使王翦、辛胜攻燕。
燕、代发兵击秦军，秦军破燕易水之西。
二十一年，王贲攻荆。
乃益发卒诣王翦军，遂破燕太子军，取燕蓟城，得太子丹之首。
燕王东收辽东而王之。
王翦谢病老归。新郑反。
昌平君徙於郢。
大雨雪，深二尺五寸。
二十二年，王贲攻魏，引河沟灌大梁，大梁城坏，其王请降，尽取其地。
二十三年，秦王复召王翦，彊起之，使将击荆。
取陈以南至平舆，虏荆王。
秦王游至郢陈。
荆将项燕立昌平君为荆王，反秦於淮南。
二十四年，王翦、蒙武攻荆，破荆军，昌平君死，项燕遂自杀。
二十五年，大兴兵，使王贲将，攻燕辽东，得燕王喜。
还攻代，虏代王嘉。
王翦遂定荆江南地；降越君，置会稽郡。
五月，天下大酺。
translation: 
Twenty years ago, Crown Prince Dan of Yan State was worried about Qin's army coming to Yan State. He was panic-stricken and sent Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin.
The King of Qin noticed this, dismembered Jing Ke's body and paraded it to the public, and sent Wang Jian and Xin Sheng to attack Yan.
Yan and Dai sent troops to attack the Qin army, and the Qin army defeated the Yan army west of Yishui.
In the twenty-first year, Wang Ben attacked Jingdi.
He dispatched more soldiers to Wang Jian's army, defeated Prince Yan's army, captured Jicheng of Yan State, and obtained Prince Dan's head.
King Yan went east to gather troops from Liaodong and proclaimed himself king there.
Wang Jian excused himself from illness and retired to his hometown. Xinzheng rebelled.
Lord Changping moved to Yingdi.
It snowed heavily, the snow was two feet five inches deep.
In the 22nd year, Wang Ben attacked Wei and dug ditches to divert water from the river to flood Daliang. The city wall of Daliang was destroyed. King Wei asked for surrender, and Qin occupied all Wei territory.
In the twenty-third year, the King of Qin recruited Wang Jian again, insisted on using him, and sent him to lead the army to attack Jing State.
They captured the area from the south of Chendi to Pingyu and captured King Jing.
The king of Qin arrived at Yingchen on his parade.
Jing general Xiang Yan established Lord Changping as King of Jing and raised troops south of the Huai River to rebel against Qin.
In the twenty-fourth year, Wang Jian and Meng Wu attacked Jingdi and defeated the Jing army. Lord Changping died in the battle, and Xiang Yan committed suicide.
In the twenty-fifth year, he sent out a large number of troops, sent Wang Ben as general, led the army to attack the Liaodong area of ​​Yan State, and captured King Xi of Yan.
He returned to attack the state of Dai and captured Dai Wangjia.
Wang Jian pacified the Jiangnan area of ​​Jing State, surrendered Yuejun, and established Kuaiji County.
In May, the whole world gathers for a feast.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
二十六年，齐王建与其相后胜发兵守其西界，不通秦。
秦使将军王贲从燕南攻齐，得齐王建。
秦初并天下，令丞相、御史曰： 异日韩王纳地效玺，请为籓臣，已而倍约，与赵、魏合从畔秦，故兴兵诛之，虏其王。
寡人以为善，庶几息兵革。
赵王使其相李牧来约盟，故归其质子。
已而倍盟，反我太原，故兴兵诛之，得其王。
赵公子嘉乃自立为代王，故举兵击灭之。魏王始约服入秦，已而与韩、赵谋袭秦，秦兵吏诛，遂破之。
荆王献青阳以西，已而畔约，击我南郡，故发兵诛，得其王，遂定其荆地。
燕王昏乱，其太子丹乃阴令荆轲为贼，兵吏诛，灭其国。
齐王用后胜计，绝秦使，欲为乱，兵吏诛，虏其王，平齐地。
寡人以眇眇之身，兴兵诛暴乱，赖宗庙之灵，六王咸伏其辜，天下大定。
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year, King Jian of Qi and Prime Minister Housheng of Qi dispatched troops to defend the western border and not to have any contact with Qin.
Qin State sent general Wang Bi from Yan State to the south to attack Qi State and captured Qi Wang Jian.
Qin had just annexed the world and ordered the prime minister and censor to say: Some time ago, the king of Han handed over the land, dedicated the king's seal, and asked to become a vassal. Soon he broke the agreement and joined forces with Zhao and Wei to betray Qin, so I raised an army to attack and captured the king of South Korea.
I thought this was a good thing, and we could probably stop fighting.
King Zhao sent his prime minister Li Mu to sign the treaty, so he sent back his son who was a hostage.
Soon the State of Zhao betrayed the alliance and raised an army to resist in Taiyuan, our country, so I launched an army to attack and captured its king.
Prince Jia of Zhao established himself as the acting king, so I sent troops to destroy him. King Wei initially agreed to surrender to Qin, but soon conspired with South Korea and Zhao to attack Qin. Qin officials went to attack and destroyed Wei.
King Jing offered the land west of Qingyang, but soon broke the agreement and attacked Nanjun of our country. So I sent troops to attack, captured the king of Jing, and pacified the land of Jing.
The King of Yan was fatuous and chaotic, and his Crown Prince Dan secretly ordered Jing Ke to be an assassin. The officials of Qin went to attack him and destroyed his country.
The King of Qi adopted the strategy of victory later and did not allow the Qin envoys to enter the Qi State. He planned to raise troops to cause chaos. I sent officers to attack, captured the King of Qi, and pacified the Qi State.
With my insignificant body, I sent out troops to suppress the rebellion. Relying on the power of the ancestral temple, the kings of the six countries have all accepted their crimes, and the world is completely peaceful.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今名号不更，无以称成功，传後世。
其议帝号。
丞相绾、御史大夫劫、廷尉斯等皆曰： 昔者五帝地方千里，其外侯服夷服诸侯或朝或否，天子不能制。
今陛下兴义兵，诛残贼，平定天下，海内为郡县，法令由一统，自上古以来未尝有，五帝所不及。
臣等谨与博士议曰： 古有天皇，有地皇，有泰皇，泰皇最贵。
臣等昧死上尊号，王为 泰皇 。
命为 制 ，令为 诏 ，天子自称曰 朕 。
王曰： 去 泰 ，著 皇 ，采上古 帝 位号，号曰 皇帝 。
他如议。
制曰： 可。
追尊庄襄王为太上皇。
制曰： 朕闻太古有号毋谥，中古有号，死而以行为谥。
如此，则子议父，臣议君也，甚无谓，朕弗取焉。
自今已来，除谥法。
朕为始皇帝。
後世以计数，二世三世至于万世，传之无穷。
translation: 
If we don't change the name now, we can't praise the achievements of the establishment and pass them on to future generations.
Please agree on an imperial title.
Prime Minister Wang Wan, Imperial Censor Feng Jie, and Tingwei Li Si all said: In the past, the Five Emperors governed an area thousands of miles square. Outside this area, some princes paid tribute and some princes did not pay tribute, so the emperor could not control them.
Now His Majesty is dispatching rebels to punish thieves, pacify the world, set up counties and counties within the four seas, and unify laws. This has never happened since ancient times, and it is beyond the reach of the five emperors.
We discussed it carefully with the doctors, and they all said that in ancient times, there were emperors of heaven, emperors of earth, and emperors of Thailand, and the emperor of Thailand was the noblest.
We risked the death penalty to offer our title, and the king was called "Emperor of Thailand".
The emperor's order is called "Zhi", the emperor's order is called "Zhao", and the emperor calls himself "Zhen".
The King of Qin said: Remove the word "Tai" and leave the word "huang". Use the ancient word "emperor" to express status and title, and call it "emperor".
Other opinions as agreed.
Give the order and say: OK.
Pursuing King Zhuang Xiang as the Supreme Emperor.
The emperor issued an order and said: I heard that in ancient times, there were titles but no posthumous titles. In the Middle Ages, there were titles. Posthumous titles were determined after death based on the deeds during life.
Doing this means that the son will talk about his father and the ministers will talk about the king. This is very meaningless. I will not adopt this approach.
From then on, the posthumous law was abolished.
I am the First Emperor.
Counting the descendants, from the second and third generations to the ten thousand generations, the inheritance will be endless.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
始皇推终始五德之传，以为周得火德，秦代周，德从所不胜。
方今水德之始，改年始，朝贺皆自十月朔。衣服旄旌节旗皆上黑。
数以六为纪，符、法冠皆六寸，而舆六尺，六尺为步，乘六马。
更名河曰德水，以为水德之始。
刚毅戾深，事皆决於法，刻削毋仁恩和义，然後合五德之数。
於是急法，久者不赦。
丞相绾等言： 诸侯初破，燕、齐、荆地远，不为置王，毋以填之。
请立诸子，唯上幸许。
始皇下其议於群臣，群臣皆以为便。
廷尉李斯议曰： 周文武所封子弟同姓甚众，然後属疏远，相攻击如仇雠，诸侯更相诛伐，周天子弗能禁止。
今海内赖陛下神灵一统，皆为郡县，诸子功臣以公赋税重赏赐之，甚足易制。
天下无异意，则安宁之术也。
置诸侯不便。
始皇曰： 天下共苦战斗不休，以有侯王。赖宗庙，天下初定，又复立国，是树兵也，而求其宁息，岂不难哉！
廷尉议是。
translation: 
The First Emperor deduced based on the order of succession of the five virtues, and believed that the Zhou Dynasty obtained the fire virtue, and the Qin Dynasty replaced the fire virtue of the Zhou Dynasty. Following the law of the victory of the five elements, the water virtue should now be the beginning.
At the beginning of October, the first month of the new year, a group of ministers came to the court to celebrate. Clothes, banners, and festival flags are all black.
Six is ​​used as the standard for number, the talisman and the dharma crown are all six inches, the chariot is six feet wide, the steps are six feet, and the chariot is driven by six horses.
The river was renamed Deshui as the beginning of water virtue.
Being tough and decisive in politics, being violent and harsh, deciding everything in accordance with the law, being harsh and severe, without kindness, kindness, warmth and morality, this is in line with the principles of the evolution of the Five Virtues.
So the law was strict and criminals who had been imprisoned for a long time were not pardoned.
Prime Minister Wang Wan and others suggested: The princes of various countries have just been wiped out, and the lands of Yan, Qi, and Jing are far away. If there is no king there, there will be no one to pacify Yan, Qi, and Jing.
Please make the emperor's sons kings, hoping to get the emperor's approval.
The First Emperor submitted Wang Wan and others' suggestions to the ministers for discussion, and they all thought it was appropriate.
Tingwei Li Si suggested: King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou had many children with the same surname. However, later on, the clansmen became estranged and attacked each other like enemies. The princes fought against each other and the emperor of Zhou could not stop them.
Now, relying on His Majesty's spirit, the world has been unified and divided into counties and counties. The emperor's children and meritorious officials are heavily rewarded with state taxes, making it easy to govern.
There is no two minds in the world. This is the way to stabilize the country.
It is not appropriate to create feudal lords.
The First Emperor said: The world is suffering from endless wars because of the princes and kings. Relying on the spirit of the ancestral temple, we have just pacified the world and then established the princely states. This is creating enemies for ourselves, and seeking peace is not very difficult!
Tingwei's suggestion is correct.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
分天下以为三十六郡，郡置守、尉、监。
更名民曰 黔首 。
大酺。
收天下兵，聚之咸阳，销以为锺鐻，金人十二，重各千石，置廷宫中。
一法度衡石丈尺。
车同轨。
书同文字。
地东至海暨朝鲜，西至临洮、羌中，南至北乡户，北据河为塞，并阴山至辽东。
徙天下豪富於咸阳十二万户。
诸庙及章台、上林皆在渭南。
秦每破诸侯，写放其宫室，作之咸阳北阪上，南临渭，自雍门以东至泾、渭，殿屋複道周阁相属。
所得诸侯美人锺鼓，以充入之。
二十七年，始皇巡陇西、北地，出鸡头山，过回中。
焉作信宫渭南，已更命信宫为极庙，象天极。
自极庙道通郦山，作甘泉前殿。筑甬道，自咸阳属之。
translation: 
Divide the country into thirty-six counties, with guards, lieutenants, and prisons in each county.
The people renamed it Qianshou.
The whole world gathers and feasts.
Collected weapons from all over the world, concentrated them in Xianyang, and cast them into bells. They also cast twelve bronze figures, each weighing a thousand stones, and placed them in the palace.
Unify the legal system and standards of weights and measures.
It is stipulated that the distance between the two wheels of the car is the same.
Writing uses a unified script.
The country's territory extends from the sea and Korea in the east, to Lintao and Qiangzhong in the west, to the area where the gate opens to the north in the south, with the Yellow River as a barrier to the north, and along the Yinshan Mountains to Liaodong.
Moved 120,000 wealthy families in the world to Xianyang.
The mausoleums, Zhangtai and Shanglin gardens of the kings of Qin are all on the south bank of the Wei River.
Every time the Qin State eliminated a vassal state, it imitated its palace and built it on the northern slope of Xianyang, adjacent to the Wei River in the south, and from the east of Yongmen to the confluence area of ​​​​the Jing River and the Wei River. Palace rooms, sky plank roads and winding pavilion roads were continuous.
The beauties, bells and drums captured from the princely states were all placed inside.
In the twenty-seventh year, the First Emperor visited Longxi and Northland and came to Jitou Mountain, passing by on his way back to Central China.
So Xin Palace was built south of the Weishui River, and soon the Xin Palace was renamed Ji Temple, symbolizing the Tianji Star.
A road was built from Ji Temple to Mount Li, and the front hall of Ganquan Palace was built, and a corridor was built to connect it from Xianyang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
是岁，赐爵一级。
治驰道。
二十八年，始皇东行郡县，上邹峄山。
立石，与鲁诸儒生议，刻石颂秦德，议封禅望祭山川之事。
乃遂上泰山，立石，封，祠祀。
下，风雨暴至，休於树下，因封其树为五大夫。
禅梁父。刻所立石，其辞曰：
皇帝临位，作制明法，臣下脩饬。
二十有六年，初并天下，罔不宾服。
亲巡远方黎民，登兹泰山，周览东极。
从臣思迹，本原事业，祗诵功德。
治道运行，诸产得宜，皆有法式。
大义休明，垂于後世，顺承勿革。
皇帝躬圣，既平天下，不懈於治。夙兴夜寐，建设长利，专隆教诲。
训经宣达，远近毕理，咸承圣志。
translation: 
This year, the country was awarded the first level of civil nobility.
Build Chi Road.
In the twenty-eighth year, the First Emperor patrolled the counties eastward and climbed Mount Zouyi.
He set up stone tablets and discussed with some Confucian scholars from Lu. He carved stone tablets to praise the merits of the Qin Dynasty, and discussed matters such as enshrining Zen and paying homage to mountains and rivers.
So he climbed Mount Tai, erected a stone tablet, piled up earth to make an altar, and offered sacrifices to heaven.
When he was going down the mountain, there was a sudden wind and rain. The First Emperor stopped under the tree, so he named the tree the Five Great Masters.
Then he went to Liangfu to lay out the ground as a foundation, worshiped the earth, and inscribed on the stone tablet he erected. The inscription said:
The emperor ascended the throne, established institutions, declared laws and regulations, and maintained strict governance among his ministers.
In the twenty-sixth year, he began to annex the world, and there was no one who was disobedient.
Personally inspect the people in distant places, climb this Mount Tai, and explore the easternmost territory.
The accompanying subjects recalled the road they had traveled, explored the ins and outs of their careers, and respectfully praised the merits of the Qin Dynasty.
The methods of governing the country are implemented, all production arrangements are appropriate, and there are certain rules.
The great truth is beautiful and bright. It should be passed down to future generations, inherited and not changed.
The emperor himself is divine and has brought peace to the world, but he still manages the country unremittingly, gets up early and goes to bed late, seeks long-term interests, and pays special attention to the education of his subjects.
The teachings and laws on governing the country spread far and wide, and people far and near were governed, fully accepting the emperor's divine will.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
贵贱分明，男女礼顺，慎遵职事。
昭隔内外，靡不清净，施于後嗣。
化及无穷，遵奉遗诏，永承重戒。
於是乃并勃海以东，过黄、腄，穷成山，登之罘，立石颂秦德焉而去。
南登琅邪，大乐之，留三月。
乃徙黔首三万户琅邪台下，复十二岁。
作琅邪台，立石刻，颂秦德，明得意。
曰：
维二十八年，皇帝作始。
端平法度，万物之纪。
以明人事，合同父子。
圣智仁义，显白道理。
东抚东土，以省卒士。
事已大毕，乃临于海。
皇帝之功，勤劳本事。
上农除末，黔首是富。
普天之下，抟心揖志。
器械一量，同书文字。
日月所照，舟舆所载。皆终其命，莫不得意。
应时动事，是维皇帝。
translation: 
There is a clear hierarchy between high and low, and men and women act according to etiquette and carefully abide by their respective responsibilities.
Clearly distinguishing the inside and outside, everyone feels quiet and pure. This situation will continue to future generations.
The reach of enlightenment is endless. Follow the edict left behind and inherit this important admonition forever.
So he walked eastward along the Bohai Sea, passed through Huangju and Xiuxian counties, climbed to the highest point of Chengshan, climbed to the top of Zhifu, erected a stone tablet to praise the virtues of the Qin Dynasty, and then left.
Climbing Langye to the south, I was very happy and stayed there for three months.
Thirty thousand households were moved to the foot of Langye Tower and exempted from twelve years of corvee service.
The construction of Langye Tower and the erection of monuments and inscriptions praised the virtues of the Qin Dynasty and showed that they were in line with the will of the world.
The inscription says:
Twenty-eight years later, he just started to be emperor.
A just legal system has been established, which is the norm for all things in the world.
In this way, we can clarify the relationship between people and make father and son work together.
The emperor is holy, wise and benevolent, and understands the truth of all things.
Patrolling the eastern region to the east, inspecting soldiers.
The inspection was completely over and we arrived at the beach.
The emperor's merit lies in diligently taking care of the fundamental affairs of the country.
Focusing on agriculture and suppressing business, the people became rich.
The whole country is united and united.
The utensils have consistent standards and uniform writing.
Wherever the sun and moon shine, and wherever boats and carriages go, the emperor's mission can be fulfilled, and nothing he does is inconsistent with the will of the world.
Only the emperor handles things according to the appropriate timing.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
匡饬异俗，陵水经地。
忧恤黔首，朝夕不懈。
除疑定法，咸知所辟。
方伯分职，诸治经易。
举错必当，莫不如画。
皇帝之明，临察四方。
尊卑贵贱，不逾次行。
奸邪不容，皆务贞良。
细大尽力，莫敢怠荒。
远迩辟隐，专务肃庄。端直敦忠，事业有常。
皇帝之德，存定四极。
诛乱除害，兴利致福。
节事以时，诸产繁殖。
黔首安宁，不用兵革。
六亲相保，终无寇贼。
驩欣奉教，尽知法式。
六合之内，皇帝之土。
西涉流沙，南尽北户。
东有东海，北过大夏。
人迹所至，无不臣者。
功盖五帝，泽及牛马。莫不受德，各安其宇。
translation: 
Rectify bad customs and travel across mountains and rivers, regardless of geographical restrictions.
Take care of the people and never slack off morning and night.
Eliminate doubts, make laws, and everyone knows to avoid violating criminal laws.
The county governor manages local government affairs separately, and the methods for handling various government affairs are simple and easy.
The measures taken were all appropriate and nothing was inconsistent.
The emperor and his gods personally visited all directions.
No matter how high or low one is, one should not exceed the rank.
Treachery and evil are not allowed to exist, and people strive to be upright and kind people.
Do your best on all matters, big and small, and don't dare to slack off.
No matter far or near, or in a remote place, we must be solemn, upright and honest, and we must follow certain rules in doing things.
The emperor's virtue brought stability to all directions.
Combat riots, eliminate disasters, create good things, and bring blessings.
Arrange things according to the season, and the variety of products is constantly increasing.
The people were at peace and no longer engaged in war.
If the six relatives live in peace, there will be no thieves in life.
Joyfully abide by the country's teachings, and everyone is familiar with the legal system.
Heaven and earth, in all directions, are the emperor's territory.
The west reaches the quicksand, and the south reaches the limit where the door opens to the north.
There is the East China Sea to the east and Daxia to the north.
Wherever people go, there is no one who refuses to surrender.
His merits exceeded those of the Five Emperors, and his favor extended to cattle and horses. Everyone received the emperor's favor and lived a stable life.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
维秦王兼有天下，立名为皇帝，乃抚东土，至于琅邪。
列侯武城侯王离、列侯通武侯王贲、伦侯建成侯赵亥、伦侯昌武侯成、伦侯武信侯冯毋择、丞相隗林、丞相王绾、卿李斯、卿王戊、五大夫赵婴、五大夫杨樛从，与议於海上。曰： 古之帝者，地不过千里，诸侯各守其封域，或朝或否，相侵暴乱，残伐不止，犹刻金石，以自为纪。
古之五帝三王，知教不同，法度不明，假威鬼神，以欺远方，实不称名，故不久长。
其身未殁，诸侯倍叛，法令不行。
今皇帝并一海内，以为郡县，天下和平。
昭明宗庙，体道行德，尊号大成。
群臣相与诵皇帝功德，刻于金石，以为表经。
既已，齐人徐巿等上书，言海中有三神山，名曰蓬莱、方丈、瀛洲，仙人居之。
请得斋戒，与童男女求之。
於是遣徐巿发童男女数千人，入海求仙人。
始皇还，过彭城，斋戒祷祠，欲出周鼎泗水。
translation: 
King Qin annexed the whole country and determined the title of emperor, so he followed the eastern region and reached Langye.
The princes Wuchenghou Wang Li, Liehou Tongwuhou Wang Ben, Lunhou Jianchenghou Zhao Hai, Lunhou Changwuhou Cheng, Lunhou Wuxinhou Feng Wuze, Prime Minister Wei Lin, Prime Minister Wang Wan, Qing Li Si, Qing Wangwu, the fifth official Zhao Ying, and the fifth official Yang Wei followed. They discussed the merits of the Qin Dynasty with the First Emperor at the seaside and said: In ancient times, the territory of those who claimed to be emperors was no more than a thousand miles long. The princes each adhered to their own territory. Some paid tribute and some did not pay tribute. They invaded and attacked each other, caused violence and chaos, and killed without end. However, they still carved gold and stone to record their achievements.
In ancient times, the five emperors and three kings implemented different knowledge and education, and the legal system was not clear. They used the power of ghosts and gods to deceive people in distant places. The actual situation did not match the title, so the country's destiny was not long-lasting.
Before the person died, the princes rebelled and the law could not be implemented.
Now the emperor has unified the four seas and divided the country into counties and counties. The world is peaceful and harmonious.
Carrying forward the mighty spirit of the ancestral temple, adhering to the truth, spreading kindness widely, and worthy of the title of emperor.
The ministers praised the emperor's merits together and engraved them on gold and stone as a model for future generations.
The inscriptions on the stone had been completed, and people from Qi such as Xu Shi wrote a letter saying that there were three sacred mountains in the sea, named Penglai, Fangzhang, and Yingzhou, where immortals lived.
I hope to fast and bathe, and to seek the three sacred mountains with boys and girls.
So he sent Xu Shi to select thousands of boys and girls to search for immortals in the sea.
When the First Emperor returned, he passed by Pengcheng, fasted and prayed, and wanted to salvage Zhou Ding from Surabaya.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
使千人没水求之，弗得。
乃西南渡淮水，之衡山、南郡。
浮江，至湘山祠。
逢大风，几不得渡。
上问博士曰： 湘君神？
博士对曰： 闻之，尧女，舜之妻，而葬此。
於是始皇大怒，使刑徒三千人皆伐湘山树，赭其山。
上自南郡由武关归。
二十九年，始皇东游。
至阳武博狼沙中，为盗所惊。
求弗得，乃令天下大索十日。
登之罘，刻石。
其辞曰：
维二十九年，时在中春，阳和方起。
皇帝东游，巡登之罘，临照于海。
从臣嘉观，原念休烈，追诵本始。
大圣作治，建定法度，显箸纲纪。
外教诸侯，光施文惠，明以义理。
六国回辟，贪戾无厌，虐杀不已。
皇帝哀众，遂发讨师，奋扬武德。
translation: 
Thousands of people were asked to dive into the water to look for it, but could not find it.
So he walked southwest, crossed the Huai River, and headed for Hengshan and Nanjun.
Boating on the river, we came to Xiangshan Mountain to worship.
In strong winds, it is almost impossible to cross the water and go up the mountain.
The First Emperor asked the doctor: What kind of god is Lord Xiang?
The doctor replied: I heard that she was Yao's daughter and Shun's wife. She was buried here after her death.
So the First Emperor was very angry and ordered three thousand prisoners to cut down all the trees on Xiangshan Mountain, exposing the red soil on the whole mountain.
The First Emperor returned to Xianyang from Nanjun via Wuguan.
In the twenty-ninth year, the First Emperor traveled eastward.
When I arrived at Yangwu Bolangsha, I was frightened by robbers.
After chasing the robbers, but failing to capture them, a nationwide search was ordered for ten days.
The First Emperor climbed onto the fu and carved a stone tablet.
The inscription says:
In the twenty-ninth year, in the second month of spring, the weather began to warm up.
The emperor cruised eastward and boarded Zhifu, facing the sea.
Seeing this beautiful scenery, the accompanying subjects recalled the emperor's great achievements and the beginning and end of the great cause of unification.
The great emperor began to govern the country, formulated the legal system, and made clear the principles and disciplines.
He taught foreign princes, imparted enlightenment, spread benefits widely, and clarified the truth.
The princes of the six kingdoms are treacherous, greedy and perverse, with insatiable desires, cruelty and killing without end.
The emperor felt pity for the people, so he dispatched a large army to conquer the country and displayed great power.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
义诛信行，威燀旁达，莫不宾服。
烹灭彊暴，振救黔首，周定四极。
普施明法，经纬天下，永为仪则。
大矣哉！
宇县之中，承顺圣意。
群臣诵功，请刻于石，表垂于常式。
其东观曰：
维二十九年，皇帝春游，览省远方。
逮于海隅，遂登之罘，昭临朝阳。
观望广丽，从臣咸念，原道至明。
圣法初兴，清理疆内，外诛暴彊。
武威旁暢，振动四极，秦灭六王。
阐并天下，甾害绝息，永偃戎兵。
皇帝明德，经理宇内，视听不怠。
作立大义，昭设备器，咸有章旗。
职臣遵分，各知所行，事无嫌疑。
黔首改化，远迩同度，临古绝尤。
常职既定，後嗣循业，长承圣治。
translation: 
Carry out a just crusade and take honest actions, your martial power will spread far and wide, and no one will fail to surrender.
The violent forces were eliminated, the people were saved, and the world was stabilized.
A strict legal system was universally implemented to govern the world and became a permanent norm.
How great!
The emperor's sacred will is followed throughout the world.
The ministers praised the emperor's meritorious service and requested that it be engraved on a stone tablet and recorded for future generations as an eternal law.
The inscription on the stone tablet at the east pavilion says:
In the twenty-ninth year, the emperor went on a tour in the spring to inspect distant places.
When we got to the seaside, we climbed onto the boat and faced the rising sun.
Looking at the vast and beautiful scenery, the accompanying subjects all remembered the past and recalled that the road they had traveled was very bright.
When the wise rule of law was first implemented, the bad guys and bad deeds in the country were cleaned up, and the violent enemies were punished externally.
The military power spread far and wide, shaking all directions, annihilating the six kingdoms and capturing their kings.
Open up territory, unify the world, eliminate the scourge of war, and stop wars forever.
The emperor was virtuous and wise, and he governed the country and handled government affairs without slacking off.
There are certain rules for establishing major legal systems and clearly setting unified standards.
Officials who have their duties abide by their duties and know what they should do, and there is no doubt about the matter.
The people have changed, and the system is unified far and near. It is the best era since ancient times.
Each person has been assigned a fixed position, and future generations will continue to follow the old path and inherit this wise politics forever.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
群臣嘉德，祗诵圣烈，请刻之罘。
旋，遂之琅邪，道上党入。
三十年，无事。
三十一年十二月，更名腊曰 嘉平 。
赐黔首里六石米，二羊。
始皇为微行咸阳，与武士四人俱，夜出逢盗兰池，见窘，武士击杀盗，关中大索二十日。
米石千六百。
三十二年，始皇之碣石，使燕人卢生求羡门、高誓。
刻碣石门。
坏城郭，决通隄防。
其辞曰：
遂兴师旅，诛戮无道，为逆灭息。
武殄暴逆，文复无罪，庶心咸服。
惠论功劳，赏及牛马，恩肥土域。
皇帝奋威，德并诸侯，初一泰平。
堕坏城郭，决通川防，夷去险阻。
地势既定，黎庶无繇，天下咸抚。
男乐其畴，女修其业，事各有序。
惠被诸产，久并来田，莫不安所。
群臣诵烈，请刻此石，垂著仪矩。
translation: 
The ministers praised the emperor's kindness, respectfully praised his great achievements, and requested that a monument be erected on Zhifu Mountain.
Soon, he went to Langye and returned to Xianyang from Shangdang.
For thirty years, nothing significant happened.
In December of the 31st year, the name of the wax festival was changed to Jiaping.
The people were rewarded with six stones of rice and two sheep for every mile.
The First Emperor changed his clothes and traveled to Xianyang, accompanied by four warriors. When he came out at night, he met a thief in Lanchi and was trapped by the thief. The samurai killed the thieves and searched Guanzhong for twenty days.
The price of grain reaches one thousand six hundred yuan per stone.
In the thirty-second year, the First Emperor went to Jieshi and sent Lu Sheng, a native of Yan, to visit Xianmen and Gao Shi.
Carve inscriptions on the Jieshi city gate.
Destroy the city walls and dig through the embankments.
The inscription on the city gate says:
So he mobilized the army to punish the unjust, and those who rebelled against violence were eliminated.
Use force to quell the riots, use civil rule to protect the innocent, and the hearts of the whole country will be subdued.
Jia'en discusses the merits of meritorious personnel. Even cattle and horses were rewarded, and the kindness moistened the earth.
The emperor vigorously displayed his power and annexed the princes through just war, unifying the country for the first time and bringing peace to the world.
Destroy the cities of the Six Kingdoms, dig through the river embankments, and level the obstacles.
All kinds of military obstacles on the ground have been leveled, the people no longer do corvee service, and the world is stable.
The man happily cultivates his land, the woman engages in her cottage industry, and everything is in perfect order.
All productions benefited from the emperor's favor, and local farmers and foreign farmers lived and worked happily.
The monarchs and ministers praised the emperor's achievements and requested that this stone tablet be engraved to serve as a standard for future generations.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
因使韩终、侯公、石生求仙人不死之药。
始皇巡北边，从上郡入。
燕人卢生使入海还，以鬼神事，因奏录图书，曰 亡秦者胡也 。
始皇乃使将军蒙恬发兵三十万人北击胡，略取河南地。
三十三年，发诸尝逋亡人、赘婿、贾人略取陆梁地，为桂林、象郡、南海，以适遣戍。
西北斥逐匈奴。
自榆中并河以东，属之阴山，以为四十四县，城河上为塞。
又使蒙恬渡河取高阙、山、北假中，筑亭障以逐戎人。
徙谪，实之初县。
禁不得祠。
明星出西方。
三十四年，适治狱吏不直者，筑长城及南越地。
始皇置酒咸阳宫，博士七十人前为寿。
仆射周青臣进颂曰： 他时秦地不过千里，赖陛下神灵明圣，平定海内，放逐蛮夷，日月所照，莫不宾服。
translation: 
Han Zhong, Hou Gong, and Shi Sheng were sent to seek out the immortals to obtain the elixir of immortality.
The First Emperor patrolled the northern border and returned to Xianyang from Shangjun.
Lu Sheng, a native of Yan, was sent to search for immortals in the sea and came back. Because he reported the ghosts and gods to the First Emperor, he took the opportunity to present a copied book, which said: "It was Hu who destroyed the Qin Dynasty."
The First Emperor sent General Meng Tian to send 300,000 troops to attack the Hu people in the north and seize the area south of the Yellow River.
In the thirty-third year, criminals who had fled, men who had married into other families, and merchants were recruited to conquer the Luliang area, and Guilin County, Xiang County, and Nanhai County were established, and those who were guilty and should be exiled were sent to guard them.
Drive out the Huns in the northwest.
From Yuzhong to the east along the Yellow River to the Yinshan Mountains, forty-four counties were set up, and fortresses were built near the Yellow River.
He also sent Meng Tian across the Yellow River to capture Gaoque, Yangshan, and Beijia areas, and built pavilions and barriers to drive away the Rong people.
Migrate criminals and arrange them in newly established counties.
Folk sacrifices are prohibited.
The comet appears in the west.
In the thirty-fourth year, he denounced those officials who were unfairly sentenced to prison and asked them to build the Great Wall or guard the South Vietnam area.
The First Emperor held a banquet with wine in Xianyang Palace, and seventy doctors came forward to toast and celebrate his birthday.
Pushe Zhou Qingchen praised and said: In the past, the territory of the Qin State was no more than a thousand miles away. Relying on your majesty’s divine wisdom, the world was pacified and the barbarians were driven away. Wherever the sun and moon could shine, there was no one who would not surrender.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
以诸侯为郡县，人人自安乐，无战争之患，传之万世。自上古不及陛下威德。
始皇悦。
博士齐人淳于越进曰： 臣闻殷周之王千馀岁，封子弟功臣，自为枝辅。
今陛下有海内，而子弟为匹夫，卒有田常、六卿之臣，无辅拂，何以相救哉？
事不师古而能长久者，非所闻也。
今青臣又面谀以重陛下之过，非忠臣。
始皇下其议。
丞相李斯曰： 五帝不相复，三代不相袭，各以治，非其相反，时变异也。
今陛下创大业，建万世之功，固非愚儒所知。
且越言乃三代之事，何足法也？
异时诸侯并争，厚招游学。
今天下已定，法令出一，百姓当家则力农工，士则学习法令辟禁。
今诸生不师今而学古，以非当世，惑乱黔首。
丞相臣斯昧死言：古者天下散乱，莫之能一，是以诸侯并作，语皆道古以害今，饰虚言以乱实，人善其所私学，以非上之所建立。
今皇帝并有天下，别黑白而定一尊。
私学而相与非法教，人闻令下，则各以其学议之，入则心非，出则巷议，夸主以为名，异取以为高，率群下以造谤。
如此弗禁，则主势降乎上，党与成乎下。
translation: 
Consolidate the territories of various princes into counties and counties, so that everyone can live and work in peace and contentment without the worry of war. This achievement can be passed down to eternity. From ancient times, no one can match your Majesty's majesty.
The First Emperor was very happy.
Dr. Chunyu Yuejin, a native of Qi, remonstrated and said, I heard that Yin and Zhou ruled the world for more than a thousand years, enfeoffing their descendants and meritorious officials as their own auxiliary forces.
Now His Majesty controls the world, but his descendants are ordinary people. Occasionally, ministers like Tian Chang and Liu Qing appear, and there is no one to help them. How can they be saved?
I have never heard of anyone who did not imitate the ancients and remain undefeated for a long time.
Now Qingchen flatters His Majesty in person to deepen His Majesty's fault. He is really not a loyal minister.
The First Emperor handed over their suggestions for discussion.
Prime Minister Li Si said: The systems of the five emperors do not repeat each other, and the systems of the three generations do not follow each other. Each is governed. It is not that future generations must be the opposite of the previous generation. This is due to the changes of the times.
Now His Majesty has created a great cause and established immortal achievements, which are beyond the comprehension of stupid scholars.
Besides, what Chunyu Yue was talking about was about the third generation. What can we imitate?
In the past, princes competed with each other and used generous treatment to attract traveling scholars.
Now that the world has been peaceful and unified laws and regulations have been promulgated, the people are working hard at home to engage in agricultural production and cottage industry, and the scholars are studying the laws and prohibitions.
Today, these scholars do not learn from reality, but imitate ancient times to criticize the current social system and confuse the people.
I, Prime Minister Li Si, risked death and said: In ancient times, the world was scattered and chaotic, and could not be unified. Therefore, the princes rose up at the same time. People's speeches praised the ancient times, harmed the current policies, made empty words, and confused the true appearance of things. Everyone thought that his own theory was the most perfect and criticized the system established by the monarch.
Now the emperor has annexed the world, distinguished right from wrong, and established his supreme status.
They taught knowledge privately and criticized the country's laws and education together. When the laws were issued, they discussed them with their own theories. When they entered the court, they criticized them in their hearts. When they left the court, they talked in the streets. They boasted about themselves in front of the monarch. They used this to gain fame and reputation, to be new and different, to think they were superior, and to lead their subjects to fabricate slander.
If this situation is not prohibited, the authority of the monarch will decrease at the top, and collusion between party members will form at the bottom.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
禁之便。
臣请史官非秦记皆烧之。
非博士官所职，天下敢有藏诗、书、百家语者，悉诣守、尉杂烧之。
有敢偶语诗书者弃市。
以古非今者族。
吏见知不举者与同罪。
令下三十日不烧，黥为城旦。
所不去者，医药卜筮种树之书。
若欲有学法令，以吏为师。
制曰： 可。
三十五年，除道，道九原抵云阳，堑山堙谷，直通之。
於是始皇以为咸阳人多，先王之宫廷小，吾闻周文王都丰，武王都镐，丰镐之间，帝王之都也。
乃营作朝宫渭南上林苑中。
先作前殿阿房，东西五百步，南北五十丈，上可以坐万人，下可以建五丈旗。
周驰为阁道，自殿下直抵南山。
表南山之颠以为阙。
translation: 
Forbidden as well.
I hope the historians will burn all the books that are not from Qin.
Anyone who dares to collect "Poems", "Books", or the works of hundreds of schools of thought in the country other than those under the charge of doctorate officials will be sent to the county governor or county lieutenant for burning.
Those who dared to whisper "Poems" and "Books" to each other were executed in public in the busy city.
The whole clan will be killed in ancient times.
If an official knows the crime but fails to report it, he is guilty of the same crime.
If he is ordered not to burn the books for thirty days, he will have his face tattooed and become a prisoner, Chengdan.
What will not be burned are books on medicine, divination, agriculture and forestry.
If you want to learn laws, you can learn from officials.
The First Emperor issued an order saying: This can be done.
In the thirty-fifth year, a road was opened through Jiuyuan to Yunyang, mountains were dug and valleys were dug, and a straight avenue was built to connect them.
The First Emperor thought that Xianyang had a large population and the palaces of the previous kings were small. He heard that King Wen of Zhou built his capital at Feng, and King Wu built his capital at Hao. The area between Feng and Hao was where the emperor's capital was located.
So the imperial palace was built in Shanglin Garden on the south bank of the Wei River.
First, build the front hall of Afang Palace, which is five hundred paces from east to west and fifty feet from north to south. Ten thousand people can sit in the hall, and a five-foot-high flag can be erected under the roof of the hall.
It is surrounded by pavilion roads, leading directly from His Highness to Nanshan.
Build a sign on the top of Nanshan Mountain as a gate.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
为复道，自阿房渡渭，属之咸阳，以象天极阁道绝汉抵营室也。
阿房宫未成；成，欲更择令名名之。
作宫阿房，故天下谓之阿房宫。
隐宫徒刑者七十馀万人，乃分作阿房宫，或作丽山。
发北山石椁，乃写蜀、荆地材皆至。
关中计宫三百，关外四百馀。
於是立石东海上朐界中，以为秦东门。
因徙三万家丽邑，五万家云阳，皆复不事十岁。
卢生说始皇曰： 臣等求芝奇药仙者常弗遇，类物有害之者。
方中，人主时为微行以辟恶鬼，恶鬼辟，真人至。
人主所居而人臣知之，则害於神。
真人者，入水不濡，入火不爇，陵云气，与天地久长。
今上治天下，未能恬倓。
原上所居宫毋令人知，然后不死之药殆可得也。
於是始皇曰： 吾慕真人，自谓 真人 ，不称 朕 。
乃令咸阳之旁二百里内宫观二百七十复道甬道相连，帷帐锺鼓美人充之，各案署不移徙。
translation: 
A road was built in the air to cross the Wei River from Afang Palace to connect with Xianyang, symbolizing that the Tianxia Pavilion Road crossed the Tianhe River and reached the barracks.
Afang Palace has not yet been completed; after it is completed, I want to choose another good name to call it.
A palace was built in Afang, so the world called it Afang Palace.
The hidden officials imprisoned more than 700,000 people and divided them into several groups to build the Epang Palace or the Lishan project.
The stones excavated and transported from Beishan and the timber transported from Shu and Jing areas are all concentrated here.
There are a total of 300 palaces in Guanzhong and more than 400 outside the Guanzhong.
So a stone tablet was erected in Qu County near the East China Sea as the east gate of the Qin State.
Thirty thousand households moved to Liyi and 50,000 households settled in Yunyang, all of whom were exempted from ten years of corvee service.
Lu Sheng advised the First Emperor: "I and others are looking for Ganoderma miraculous medicine and immortals, but we often fail to find them. It seems that something is getting in the way."
The fairy prescription requires that the monarch conceal his whereabouts at all times. Come and escape the evil spirits. After you escape the evil spirits, the real person will come.
If the subjects know where the monarch lives, they will hinder the gods.
A real person will not get soaked when immersed in water, will not feel heat when he enters fire, can rise above the clouds and ride in the mist, and will live as long as heaven and earth.
Now that you govern the world, you fail to achieve peace and tranquility.
I hope no one knows about the palace you live in, and then the elixir of immortality can probably be found.
So the First Emperor said: I envy Zhenren and call myself Zhenren, not Lianzhen.
He ordered the 270 palaces within 200 miles near Xianyang to be connected with roads built in the air and corridors on the ground, and the curtains, bells, drums, and beauties were placed inside, and all the decorations were not allowed to be moved.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
行所幸，有言其处者，罪死。
始皇帝幸梁山宫，从山上见丞相车骑众，弗善也。
中人或告丞相，丞相後损车骑。
始皇怒曰： 此中人泄吾语。
案问莫服。
当是时，诏捕诸时在旁者，皆杀之。
自是後莫知行之所在。
听事，群臣受决事，悉於咸阳宫。
侯生卢生相与谋曰： 始皇为人，天性刚戾自用，起诸侯，并天下，意得欲从，以为自古莫及己。
专任狱吏，狱吏得亲幸。
博士虽七十人，特备员弗用。
丞相诸大臣皆受成事，倚辨於上。
上乐以刑杀为威，天下畏罪持禄，莫敢尽忠。
上不闻过而日骄，下慑伏谩欺以取容。
秦法，不得兼方不验，辄死。
然候星气者至三百人，皆良士，畏忌讳谀，不敢端言其过。
天下之事无小大皆决於上，上至以衡石量书，日夜有呈，不中呈不得休息。
贪於权势至如此，未可为求仙药。
於是乃亡去。
translation: 
If anyone tells the lucky place where he is, he will be punished by death.
The First Emperor visited Liangshan Palace and saw the prime minister's entourage with many chariots and cavalry from the mountain. He was very disapproving.
The palace attendant told the prime minister about this, and later the prime minister reduced the number of his entourage.
The First Emperor was very angry and said: Someone in the palace has leaked my words.
No one confessed after interrogation.
At this time, he ordered the people who were around him to be arrested and killed.
From then on, no one knew where he was.
The ministers who are responsible for handling state affairs and making decisions on matters are all in Xianyang Palace.
Hou Sheng and Lu Sheng discussed together and said: The First Emperor was born to be headstrong and violent, and he was self-righteous. He rose from among the princes and annexed the world. He had everything he wanted and did whatever he wanted. He believed that no one could catch up with him since ancient times.
Officials who manage prisons are specially appointed, and they are favored.
Although there are seventy doctors, they are just fill-in staff and are not employed.
The prime minister and ministers all accept the official decisions that have been made and rely on the emperor to handle everything.
The emperor likes to use punishment and killing to establish his majesty. People in the world are afraid of being punished and just want to maintain their position. No one dares to give all their loyalty and advice.
The emperor could not hear his faults and became increasingly arrogant. His subordinates were afraid and surrendered, using deception to gain the emperor's favor.
According to the laws of the Qin Dynasty, one person cannot have two tricks at the same time. If the trick is not effective, he will be sentenced to death.
However, there are as many as 300 people who observe the stars and clouds to predict good and bad luck. They are all excellent in knowledge and are afraid of flattery and dare not point out his faults directly.
All affairs in the world, no matter how big or small, depended on the emperor. The emperor even used scales to weigh documents. There was a certain amount in a day, and no rest was allowed until the amount was reached.
If you are greedy for power to this extent, you cannot find a magic medicine for him.
So he ran away.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
始皇闻亡，乃大怒曰： 吾前收天下书不中用者尽去之。
悉召文学方术士甚众，欲以兴太平，方士欲练以求奇药。
今闻韩众去不报，徐巿等费以巨万计，终不得药，徒奸利相告日闻。
卢生等吾尊赐之甚厚，今乃诽谤我，以重吾不德也。
诸生在咸阳者，吾使人廉问，或为訞言以乱黔首。
於是使御史悉案问诸生，诸生传相告引，乃自除犯禁者四百六十馀人，皆阬之咸阳，使天下知之，以惩後。
益发谪徙边。
始皇长子扶苏谏曰： 天下初定，远方黔首未集，诸生皆诵法孔子，今上皆重法绳之，臣恐天下不安。
唯上察之。
始皇怒，使扶苏北监蒙恬於上郡。三十六年，荧惑守心。
有坠星下东郡，至地为石，黔首或刻其石曰 始皇帝死而地分 。
始皇闻之，遣御史逐问，莫服，尽取石旁居人诛之，因燔销其石。
始皇不乐，使博士为仙真人诗，及行所游天下，传令乐人歌弦之。
translation: 
When the First Emperor heard about the escape of Hou Sheng and Lu Sheng, he was very angry and said: I used to collect books from all over the world and burned them all if they were not suitable for the time.
Many literary and alchemists were recruited to bring peace to the country. These alchemists planned to refine elixirs and obtain strange medicines.
Now I heard that Han Zhong never came back after leaving. Xu Shi and others spent tens of thousands of dollars, but in the end they still didn't get the elixir, but there were some rumors about profiteering every day.
I have great respect for Lu Sheng and others, and have received generous rewards. Now they are slandering me to aggravate my unkindness.
I sent people to investigate some Confucian scholars in Xianyang, and some of them created weird and heresies to confuse the people.
So he sent a censor to interrogate the Confucian scholars, and the Confucian scholars would be able to absolve themselves of their sins by reporting them. More than 460 people who violated the law were all buried alive in Xianyang, making the whole country aware of this incident and serving as a warning to future generations.
More disciples were dispatched to guard the borders.
Fusu, the eldest son of the First Emperor, advised: The world has not long been peaceful, and the people in distant places have not yet been settled. The Confucian scholars have studied and imitated Confucius. Now you use severe punishments and ropes to punish them. I am worried that the world will be in turmoil.
I hope you are aware of this matter.
The First Emperor was very angry and sent Fusu to Shangjun in the north to monitor Meng Tian. For thirty-six years, Mars occupies the heart.
A meteorite fell in Dongjun and turned into stone when it reached the ground. Some people among the people wrote on the stone: "The First Emperor died and the earth was divided."
The First Emperor heard this and sent his censors to interrogate them one by one. No one confessed, so he arrested and executed all the people living near the stone, and burned the stone with fire.
The First Emperor was unhappy and asked the doctor to compose "Poetry of Immortal Immortals" and ordered musicians to play and sing wherever he went on tour.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
秋，使者从关东夜过华阴平舒道，有人持璧遮使者曰： 为吾遗滈池君。
因言曰： 今年祖龙死。
使者问其故，因忽不见，置其璧去。
使者奉璧具以闻。
始皇默然良久，曰： 山鬼固不过知一岁事也。
退言曰： 祖龙者，人之先也。
使御府视璧，乃二十八年行渡江所沈璧也。
於是始皇卜之，卦得游徙吉。
迁北河榆中三万家。
拜爵一级。
三十七年十月癸丑，始皇出游。
左丞相斯从，右丞相去疾守。
少子胡亥爱慕请从，上许之。
十一月，行至云梦，望祀虞舜於九疑山。
浮江下，观籍柯，渡海渚。
过丹阳，至钱唐。
临浙江，水波恶，乃西百二十里从狭中渡。
上会稽，祭大禹，望于南海，而立石刻颂秦德。
其文曰：
translation: 
In autumn, the envoy came from Guandong and passed by Pingshu in Huayin at night. Someone stopped the envoy with a wall jade and said: Give it to Lord Lianchi for me.
Then he took the opportunity to say: This year Zulong died.
The messenger asked him why. The man suddenly disappeared, leaving his jade and walking away.
The envoy presented the wall jade to the First Emperor and told the whole story.
The First Emperor was silent for a long time, and later said: The ghosts and monsters in the mountains only know what happens within a year.
After he retired from the court, he said: Zulong is the leader of the people.
The imperial family was shown this piece of jade, which turned out to be the same piece of jade that sank into the water while traveling across the river in the 28th year.
So the First Emperor asked people to predict good and bad luck, and the hexagrams indicated good luck for traveling and migrating.
Thirty thousand families moved to Beihe and Yuzhong.
Each household is given one level of title.
In October of the thirty-seventh year of Guichou, the First Emperor went on a tour.
Prime Minister Li Si on the left followed, while Prime Minister Feng Quji on the right stayed behind.
Hu Hai, the youngest son of the First Emperor, was envious and asked to go with him, and the First Emperor agreed.
In November, I walked to Yunmeng and looked towards Jiuyi Mountain to offer sacrifices to Yu Shun.
Float down the river, visit Ji Ke, and cross the river.
Passing through Danyang, we arrived at Qiantang.
On the shore of Zhejiang, I saw the dangerous waves, so I walked 120 miles westward and crossed the narrow place on the river.
Climbing Mount Kuaiji to offer sacrifices to Yu the Great, and looking to the South China Sea to offer sacrifices, erect stone tablets and extol the merits of the Qin Dynasty.
The inscription says:


Chunk 25: 
original: 
皇帝休烈，平一宇内，德惠脩长。
三十有七年，亲巡天下，周览远方。
遂登会稽，宣省习俗，黔首斋庄。
群臣诵功，本原事迹，追首高明。
秦圣临国，始定刑名，显陈旧章。
初平法式，审别职任，以立恆常。
六王专倍，贪戾泬猛，率众自彊。
暴虐恣行，负力而骄，数动甲兵。
阴通间使，以事合从，行为辟方。
内饰诈谋，外来侵边，遂起祸殃。
义威诛之，殄熄暴悖，乱贼灭亡。
圣德广密，六合之中，被泽无疆。
皇帝并宇，兼听万事，远近毕清。
运理群物，考验事实，各载其名。
贵贱并通，善否陈前，靡有隐情。
translation: 
The emperor established great achievements, unified the world, and had far-reaching virtues.
For thirty-seven years, he personally toured the country and visited distant places.
So he climbed up to Kuaiji Mountain. Observing the customs and habits, the people are very respectful.
The ministers praised the emperor's merits, recalled his entrepreneurial deeds, and traced his wise decision-making.
The great emperor of Qin came to rule the world and began to determine the criminal law system and state the past regulations.
For the first time, the rules for handling government affairs were unified, and the duties of officials were determined and distinguished, thereby establishing a long-lasting and stable system.
The princes and kings of the Six Kingdoms were arbitrary, unfaithful, greedy and perverse, arrogant and fierce, and supported the crowd to dominate.
They were violent and wanton, relied on force, were arrogant and arrogant, and repeatedly provoked wars.
The emissaries who served as spies secretly contacted each other to join forces to fight against the Qin Dynasty, and their behaviors were evil and indulgent.
They disguised their plots at home and invaded Qin's borders externally, thus bringing disaster.
Out of justice, the emperor used force to attack them and quelled the rebellion. The thieves were eliminated.
His holy virtue is grand and profound, and he has received infinite blessings from all corners of the world.
The emperor unified the world, listened to all opinions, and the government was peaceful and peaceful both far and near.
Plan and manage all things on earth, examine the actual conditions of things, and record their names respectively.
Whether they are noble or lowly, everyone has insight into their activities, good and bad things are laid out in front of them, and nothing is hidden.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
饰省宣义，有子而嫁，倍死不贞。
防隔内外，禁止淫泆，男女絜诚。
夫为寄豭，杀之无罪，男秉义程。
妻为逃嫁，子不得母，咸化廉清。
大治濯俗，天下承风，蒙被休经。
皆遵度轨，和安敦勉，莫不顺令。
黔首脩絜，人乐同则，嘉保太平。
後敬奉法，常治无极，舆舟不倾。从臣诵烈，请刻此石，光垂休铭。
还过吴，从江乘渡。
并海上，北至琅邪。
translation: 
To correct people's mistakes, to promote righteousness, to have a son and remarry someone else is to abandon your dead husband and not keep your chastity.
Separate the inside and outside, prohibit indulgence and debauchery, and men and women must be clean and honest.
If a husband commits adultery with another man's wife, it is not sinful to kill him. In this way, men can abide by moral norms.
If a wife runs away and marries another woman, her son will not be able to recognize her as his mother. In this way, people will be influenced by the atmosphere of honesty and innocence.
Large-scale rectification was carried out to clean up bad customs and habits. The people of the world accepted civilized social customs and received a kind of good governance.
People are law-abiding, harmonious and peaceful, honest and diligent, and no one disobeys the laws of the state.
The people's moral character is pure, everyone happily abides by the unified regulations, and happily maintains a peaceful situation.
If future generations conscientiously adhere to the rule of law, peace and stability will last indefinitely, and the carriages and ships will not tip over. The accompanying ministers will praise the emperor's achievements and request that this stone tablet be engraved so that this beautiful record can be remembered by future generations.
On the way back, we passed through Wuxian County and took a ride across the river.
Go north along the seaside to Langye.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
方士徐巿等入海求神药，数岁不得，费多，恐谴，乃诈曰： 蓬莱药可得，然常为大鲛鱼所苦，故不得至，原请善射与俱，见则以连弩射之。
始皇梦与海神战，如人状。
问占梦，博士曰： 水神不可见，以大鱼蛟龙为候。
今上祷祠备谨，而有此恶神，当除去，而善神可致。
乃令入海者赍捕巨鱼具，而自以连弩候大鱼出射之。
自琅邪北至荣成山，弗见。
至之罘，见巨鱼，射杀一鱼。
遂并海西。
至平原津而病。
始皇恶言死，群臣莫敢言死事。
上病益甚，乃为玺书赐公子扶苏曰： 与丧会咸阳而葬。
translation: 
The alchemist Xu Shi and others went to the sea to search for the magic medicine, but could not find it for several years. They spent a lot of money and were afraid of being reprimanded, so they deceived the First Emperor and said: The magic medicine can be obtained in Penglai, but they are often attacked by sharks, so they cannot reach Penglai. I hope to send some people who are good at archery to go with us. If the shark appears, shoot it with a repeating crossbow.
The First Emperor fought with Poseidon in his dream, and Poseidon looked like a human being.
I asked the doctor who divined dreams, and the doctor said: The water god cannot be seen, and his signs are represented by big fish and mosquito dragons.
Now your Majesty is thoughtful and respectful in your prayers and sacrifices, but this vicious sea god has appeared. He should be eradicated, and then the good god can come.
So he asked those who went to the sea to carry equipment for catching big fish, while he used a repeating crossbow to wait for the big fish to appear and shoot it to death.
From Langye to the north to Rongcheng Mountain, no big fish was seen.
When he arrived at Zhifu, he saw big fish and shot one to death.
So we headed west along the coast.
He fell ill when he arrived in Pingyuanjin.
The First Emperor hated talking about death, and no one among his ministers dared to mention it.
The First Emperor's illness worsened day by day, so he wrote an edict with the emperor's seal to his son Fusu, saying: Come back to attend my funeral and bury me together in Xianyang.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
书已封，在中车府令赵高行符玺事所，未授使者。
七月丙寅，始皇崩於沙丘平台。
丞相斯为上崩在外，恐诸公子及天下有变，乃祕之，不发丧。
棺载辒凉车中，故幸宦者参乘，所至上食。
百官奏事如故，宦者辄从辒凉车中可其奏事。
独子胡亥、赵高及所幸宦者五六人知上死。
赵高故尝教胡亥书及狱律令法事，胡亥私幸之。
高乃与公子胡亥、丞相斯阴谋破去始皇所封书赐公子扶苏者，而更诈为丞相斯受始皇遗诏沙丘，立子胡亥为太子。
更为书赐公子扶苏、蒙恬，数以罪，赐死。
语具在李斯传中。
行，遂从井陉抵九原。
会暑，上辒车臭，乃诏从官令车载一石鲍鱼，以乱其臭。
行从直道至咸阳，发丧。
太子胡亥袭位，为二世皇帝。
translation: 
The edict had been sealed and placed at the place where Zhao Gao, the commander of the Zhongche Mansion, was in charge of the seal and talisman affairs instead of Fu Xilang. It was not sent to the envoy responsible for delivering it.
In July Bingyin, the First Emperor died on the sand dune platform.
Because the First Emperor died outside, Prime Minister Li Si was afraid that the First Emperor's sons and the people in the country would cause trouble, so he blocked the news and did not hold a funeral.
The coffin was placed in a rolling carriage, accompanied by the eunuchs who were close to him, and meals were delivered as usual wherever he went.
The officials reported state affairs as before, and the eunuchs approved what they reported from their carriages.
Only the First Emperor's sons Hu Hai, Zhao Gao and five or six close eunuchs knew that the First Emperor was dead.
Zhao Gao used to teach Hu Hai writing and prison laws, and Hu Hai was very close to him in private.
Zhao Gao conspired with Prince Hu Hai and Prime Minister Li Si to defeat the imperial edict sealed by the First Emperor and sent it to Prince Fusu. At the same time, he falsely claimed that Prime Minister Li Si was in the sand dunes to accept the imperial edict from the First Emperor and make his son Hu Hai the crown prince.
He also wrote another edict to the young masters Fusu and Mengtian, listing their crimes and ordering them to commit suicide.
These things are recorded in "The Biography of Li Si".
Hu Hai and others continued to move forward, so they arrived at Jiuyuan from Jingxing.
Just in time for the hot weather, the First Emperor's carriages started to smell bad, so he ordered the officials to load each carriage with a stone of abalone to mix up the stench of the First Emperor's body.
Hu Hai and others returned to Xianyang from Zhidao and announced the death of the First Emperor.
Prince Hu Hai succeeded to the throne and became the second emperor.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
九月，葬始皇郦山。
始皇初即位，穿治郦山，及并天下，天下徒送诣七十馀万人，穿三泉，下铜而致椁，宫观百官奇器珍怪徙臧满之。
令匠作机弩矢，有所穿近者辄射之。
以水银为百川江河大海，机相灌输，上具天文，下具地理。以人鱼膏为烛，度不灭者久之。
二世曰： 先帝後宫非有子者，出焉不宜。
皆令从死，死者甚众。
葬既已下，或言工匠为机，臧皆知之，臧重即泄。
大事毕，已臧，闭中羡，下外羡门，尽闭工匠臧者，无复出者。
树草木以象山。
二世皇帝元年，年二十一。
赵高为郎中令，任用事。
translation: 
In September, the First Emperor was buried in Mount Li.
When the First Emperor first came to the throne, he dug caves in Mount Li. After unifying the country, he sent more than 700,000 prisoners from all over the world to Mount Li. He dug tunnels until they reached the water, sealed them with copper, and then placed coffins inside. Imitation palaces, hundreds of palaces, and various rare treasures were moved in and filled with treasures.
Let the craftsman make a crossbow with a mechanism. When someone digs a grave and approaches the tomb, it will automatically shoot at the target.
Use mercury to make thousands of rivers, hundreds of streams, rivers and seas, and use machinery to permeate and circulate each other. All kinds of celestial phenomena are complete above the tomb, and there are thousands of scenes on the ground below. The fat of the mermaid is used as a candle, and it is estimated that it will not be extinguished for a long time.
The Second Emperor said: If the concubine of the late Emperor’s harem has no sons, it would not be appropriate to let her out of the palace.
They were all sacrificed and many died.
The First Emperor has been buried. Some people say that craftsmen make organs, and slaves all know that if there are many slaves, it will leak out.
After the funeral, the funerary objects in the tomb were sealed, the passage in the middle of the tomb was closed, and the door to the outermost section of the passage was lowered, locking all the craftsmen and slaves inside, and no one could escape.
Plant leatherwood on the grave, like a mountain.
In the first year of the Second Emperor's reign, the Second Emperor was twenty-one years old.
Zhao Gao was Lang Zhongling and had the power to handle state affairs.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
二世下诏，增始皇寝庙牺牲及山川百祀之礼。令群臣议尊始皇庙。
群臣皆顿首言曰： 古者天子七庙，诸侯五，大夫三，虽万世世不轶毁。
今始皇为极庙，四海之内皆献贡职，增牺牲，礼咸备，毋以加。
先王庙或在西雍，或在咸阳。
天子仪当独奉酌祠始皇庙。
自襄公已下轶毁。
所置凡七庙。
群臣以礼进祠，以尊始皇庙为帝者祖庙。
皇帝复自称 朕 。
二世与赵高谋曰： 朕年少，初即位，黔首未集附。
先帝巡行郡县，以示彊，威服海内。
今晏然不巡行，即见弱，毋以臣畜天下。
春，二世东行郡县，李斯从。
到碣石，并海，南至会稽，而尽刻始皇所立刻石，石旁著大臣从者名，以章先帝成功盛德焉：
皇帝曰： 金石刻尽始皇帝所为也。
今袭号而金石刻辞不称始皇帝，其於久远也如後嗣为之者，不称成功盛德。
丞相臣斯、臣去疾、御史大夫臣德昧死言： 臣请具刻诏书刻石，因明白矣。
translation: 
The Second Emperor issued an edict to increase the number of sacrifices in the First Emperor's mausoleum and temples, as well as the etiquette of various sacrifices to mountains and rivers, and asked the officials to discuss how to respect the First Emperor's temple.
The monarchs and ministers all knelt on the ground and kowtowed, saying: In ancient times, the seven temples of the emperor, the five temples of the princes, and the three temples of the great officials will not be abolished even after eternity.
Now the First Emperor is the supreme temple, offering local products from all over the world, increasing the number of sacrifices, and the sacrifices are complete, and there is nothing more to add.
Some of the Xianwang temples are in Xiyong and some in Xianyang.
According to the emperor's etiquette, he should personally hold the wine cup to worship the First Emperor's Temple.
All temples from Xianggong on down were abolished.
There are seven ancestral temples in total.
The officials performed sacrifices according to etiquette and respected the Shihuang Temple as the ancestral temple of the Qin Emperor.
The emperor still calls himself "I".
The Second Emperor discussed with Zhao Gao and said: I am young and have not yet taken the throne, but all the people have not yet surrendered.
The late emperor visited the counties to show his strength and subjugate the world with his force.
If you remain still and do not go on tour now, you will appear weak and powerless, and you will not be able to rule the world in this way.
In the spring, II went east to patrol the counties, and Li Si followed him.
Arriving at Jieshi, we walked along the coast and went south to Kuaiji. Then we inscribed all the characters on the stone where the First Emperor stood. The names of the ministers accompanying him were engraved next to the stone tablet to show the late emperor's achievements and prosperous virtues.
The emperor said: These epigraphic inscriptions were all engraved by the First Emperor.
Now I have inherited the title of emperor, but these inscriptions on gold and stone are not called the First Emperor. As time goes by, they will seem to be inscribed by subsequent successors. This is not commensurate with the achievements and prosperous virtues of the First Emperor.
Prime Minister Li Si, Minister Feng Quji, and Imperial Censor Chen De risked death and said: I request that all the edicts be engraved on the stone tablet, so that it will be clear.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
臣昧死请。
制曰： 可。
遂至辽东而还。
於是二世乃遵用赵高，申法令。
乃阴与赵高谋曰： 大臣不服，官吏尚彊，及诸公子必与我争，为之柰何？
高曰： 臣固原言而未敢也。
先帝之大臣，皆天下累世名贵人也，积功劳世以相传久矣。
今高素小贱，陛下幸称举，令在上位，管中事。
大臣鞅鞅，特以貌从臣，其心实不服。
今上出，不因此时案郡县守尉有罪者诛之，上以振威天下，下以除去上生平所不可者。
今时不师文而决於武力，原陛下遂从时毋疑，即群臣不及谋。
明主收举馀民，贱者贵之，贫者富之，远者近之，则上下集而国安矣。 二世曰： 善。
乃行诛大臣及诸公子，以罪过连逮少近官三郎，无得立者，而六公子戮死於杜。
公子将闾昆弟三人囚於内宫，议其罪独後。
二世使使令将闾曰： 公子不臣，罪当死，吏致法焉。
将闾曰： 阙廷之礼，吾未尝敢不从宾赞也；廊庙之位，吾未尝敢失节也；受命应对，吾未尝敢失辞也。
何谓不臣？
原闻罪而死。
使者曰： 臣不得与谋，奉书从事。
translation: 
I risked death to make this request.
The Second Emperor ordered: "Okay."
After II arrived in Liaodong, he returned.
At this time, II adopted Zhao Gao's suggestion and declared the law.
He discussed with Zhao Gao privately: The ministers are disobedient and the officials are still powerful. Those young men must compete with me for power. What should I do?
Zhao Gao said: I originally wanted to say it, but I didn't dare to say it.
The ministers of the late emperor all came from prestigious and powerful families of several generations, and their meritorious deeds have been passed down from generation to generation for a long time.
I, Zhao Gao, have always been humble and lowly, but now your Majesty has promoted me to a high official position and taken charge of palace affairs.
The ministers were unhappy. They only obeyed me on the surface, but in fact they were not convinced in their hearts.
Now that you are out on patrol, why not take this opportunity to investigate and execute the county guards who are guilty? This will shock the world at first, and eradicate the people you are dissatisfied with in your life.
In today's era, we cannot follow the rule of law, but force determines everything. I hope that Your Majesty will follow the trend and do not hesitate, otherwise the ministers will have no time to make plans.
A wise monarch recruits the remnant, makes the lowly noble, makes the poor rich, and draws close to the alienated people, then the people will gather together and the country will be stable. Second said: Very good.
So the killing minister and the princes, under the pretense of being linked to each other, arrested the lower-status ministers and the third minister. No one could keep his official position, so the six princes were executed in Du County.
The prince imprisoned the three Lu brothers in the palace, and finally reviewed their crimes.
The second generation sent an envoy to the general and said: "You are not like a minister. According to the crime you committed, you should be put to death and the law will be enforced by the jailer."
The general said: I would not dare to disobey the command of the master of ceremonies regarding the etiquette of the court; I would not dare to violate the etiquette of the position in the court; I would not dare to make a mistake in my words when I was ordered to answer a question.
Why do you say I don't look like a minister?
I hope to die knowing my crime.
The messenger said: I can't take part in the planning, I just follow the orders.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
将闾乃仰天大呼天者三，曰： 天乎！
吾无罪！
昆弟三人皆流涕拔剑自杀。
宗室振恐。
群臣谏者以为诽谤，大吏持禄取容，黔首振恐。
四月，二世还至咸阳，曰： 先帝为咸阳朝廷小，故营阿房宫为室堂。
未就，会上崩，罢其作者，复土郦山。
郦山事大毕，今释阿房宫弗就，则是章先帝举事过也。
复作阿房宫。
外抚四夷，如始皇计。
尽徵其材士五万人为屯卫咸阳，令教射狗马禽兽。
当食者多，度不足，下调郡县转输菽粟刍藁，皆令自赍粮食，咸阳三百里内不得食其穀。用法益刻深。
七月，戍卒陈胜等反故荆地，为 张楚 。
胜自立为楚王，居陈，遣诸将徇地。
translation: 
So Jiang Lu raised his head and shouted to the sky, shouting: "Oh my God!"
I am not guilty!
The three brothers burst into tears and drew their swords to commit suicide.
The clan was shocked and frightened.
Those who came to remonstrate with the officials thought they were slandering the court. The ministers used their salaries to flatter and please, and the people were frightened.
In April, II returned to Xianyang. He said: The late emperor built Epang Palace because the palace in Xianyang was small.
Before the palace was completed, when the late emperor passed away, the project was stopped and the craftsmen were sent to Mount Li to cover the earth and build the mausoleum.
The Lishan project has generally been completed. To abandon Afang Palace and not complete it now is to show that what the late emperor did was wrong.
Construction of Afang Palace began again.
Externally appeasing the barbarians from all over the world was the same strategy as the First Emperor.
All 50,000 strong soldiers were mobilized to garrison Xianyang, and they were taught archeology and domestication of dogs, horses, and beasts.
There was a lot of food to eat, and it was estimated that the stored food was not enough, so we called the counties below to transport the food and fodder to Xianyang. The people who transported it all brought their own food. People within three hundred miles of Xianyang could not eat this batch of grain, and the law was even stricter.
In July, the garrison soldiers Chen Sheng and others rebelled in the past Jingdi and established Zhang Chu.
Chen Sheng proclaimed himself King of Chu, lived in Chen County, and sent generals to attack the city and capture the territory.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
山东郡县少年苦秦吏，皆杀其守尉令丞反，以应陈涉，相立为侯王，合从西乡，名为伐秦，不可胜数也。
谒者使东方来，以反者闻二世。
二世怒，下吏。
後使者至，上问，对曰： 群盗，郡守尉方逐捕，今尽得，不足忧。
上悦。
武臣自立为赵王，魏咎为魏王，田儋为齐王。
沛公起沛。
项梁举兵会稽郡。
二年冬，陈涉所遣周章等将西至戏，兵数十万。
二世大惊，与群臣谋曰： 柰何？
少府章邯曰： 盗已至，众彊，今发近县不及矣。
郦山徒多，请赦之，授兵以击之。
二世乃大赦天下，使章邯将，击破周章军而走，遂杀章曹阳。
二世益遣长史司马欣、董翳佐章邯击盗，杀陈胜城父，破项梁定陶，灭魏咎临济。
楚地盗名将已死，章邯乃北渡河，击赵王歇等於钜鹿。
translation: 
The young people in Shandong counties and counties suffered from the rule of the Qin Dynasty officials. They all killed their guards and ordered the prime ministers to rebel. In response to Chen She, they elected each other as princes and kings, and united to march westward in the name of crusade against the Qin Dynasty. The number of people who rebelled was too many to count.
The visitor came back from his mission to the East and reported the rebellion to II.
The Second Emperor was very angry and handed the visitor over to the jailer for punishment.
When the envoy came back later, II asked him about the situation. The envoy replied: They are a group of thieves. The governor and lieutenant are chasing them. Now they have all been captured. It is not worth worrying about.
II was very happy.
Wu Chen proclaimed himself the King of Zhao, Wei Jiu the King of Wei, and Tian Dan the King of Qi.
Pei Gong revolted in Pei County.
Xiang Liang raised troops in Kuaiji County.
In the winter of the second year, Zhou Zhang and other generals sent by Chen She marched westward and arrived at Xishui, with hundreds of thousands of troops.
The second generation was greatly shocked and discussed with his ministers: What should we do?
Zhang Han, the Shaofu, said: The thieves have already arrived here and the troops are strong. It is too late to mobilize troops from nearby counties.
There are many prisoners in Lishan, and I hope they will be pardoned and given weapons to attack the thieves.
So the second emperor granted amnesty to the world and sent Zhang Han as a general. He defeated Zhou Zhang's army. Zhou Zhang escaped and Zhang Han killed Zhou Zhang in Caoyang.
The Second Emperor sent additional commanders Sima Xin and Dong Yi to assist Zhang Han in attacking the bandits. He killed Chen Sheng in Chengfu, defeated Xiang Liang in Dingtao, and eliminated Wei Jiu in Linji.
The famous generals of the Chu bandits were all dead, so Zhang Han crossed the Yellow River to the north and attacked King Zhao Xie at Julu.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
赵高说二世曰： 先帝临制天下久，故群臣不敢为非，进邪说。
今陛下富於春秋，初即位，柰何与公卿廷决事？
事即有误，示群臣短也。
天子称朕，固不闻声。
於是二世常居禁中，与高决诸事。
其後公卿希得朝见，盗贼益多，而关中卒发东击盗者毋已。
右丞相去疾、左丞相斯、将军冯劫进谏曰： 关东群盗并起，秦发兵诛击，所杀亡甚众，然犹不止。
盗多，皆以戌漕转作事苦，赋税大也。
请且止阿房宫作者，减省四边戍转。
二世曰： 吾闻之韩子曰： 尧舜采椽不刮，茅茨不翦，饭土塯，啜土形，虽监门之养，不觳於此。
禹凿龙门，通大夏，决河亭水，放之海，身自持筑臿，胫毋毛，臣虏之劳不烈於此矣。
translation: 
Zhao Gao advised the Second Emperor: "The first emperor ruled the world for a long time, so the ministers did not dare to do evil or express evil opinions to the first emperor."
Now that Your Majesty is young and has just ascended the throne, how can he decide matters at court with ministers?
If something goes wrong, your shortcomings will be exposed to the officials.
The emperor calls himself "I", but the ministers should not hear the emperor's voice.
So the second generation often lived in the palace and decided various government affairs with Zhao Gao.
From then on, the ministers rarely had the opportunity to meet in court, and there were more and more thieves. The soldiers of Guanzhong were dispatched eastward to attack the thieves one after another.
Prime Minister Feng Quji on the right, Prime Minister Li Si on the left, and General Feng Jiejin remonstrated and said: The bandits in Chengjun County, Guandong, rose up together to rebel. The Qin government sent troops to attack them and killed many of them, but the bandits were still not quelled.
There are so many thieves because the people are working too hard and the taxes are too heavy due to various miscellaneous tasks such as guarding the border areas, water transportation, land transportation and civil construction.
It is hoped that the construction of Epang Palace will be stopped and the garrison and transportation tasks on the four sides of the border will be reduced.
The Second Emperor said: I heard Han Zi say: The rafters of Yao and Shun's oak houses were not repaired, and the thatched houses were not repaired. They used earthen bowls for eating and earthen basins for drinking water. Even the food and supplies for guarding the city gates were not so frugal.
Yu dug the Dragon Gate to make the Great Xia unblocked, repaired the rivers, diverted the stagnant water, and led it into the sea. He personally held the pestle for building walls and the shovel for digging. The hair on his calves was all gone. The level of labor of his slaves was no worse than this.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
凡所为贵有天下者，得肆意极欲，主重明法，下不敢为非，以制御海内矣。
夫虞、夏之主，贵为天子，亲处穷苦之实，以徇百姓，尚何於法？
朕尊万乘，毋其实，吾欲造千乘之驾，万乘之属，充吾号名。
且先帝起诸侯，兼天下，天下已定，外攘四夷以安边竟，作宫室以章得意，而君观先帝功业有绪。
今朕即位二年之间，群盗并起，君不能禁，又欲罢先帝之所为，是上毋以报先帝，次不为朕尽忠力，何以在位？
下去疾、斯、劫吏，案责他罪。
去疾、劫曰： 将相不辱。
自杀。
斯卒囚，就五刑。
三年，章邯等将其卒围钜鹿，楚上将军项羽将楚卒往救钜鹿。
冬，赵高为丞相，竟案李斯杀之。
translation: 
Anyone who is noble and controls the world should rule the world as he pleases and do whatever he wants. The main focus is to declare the rule of law so that the subjects below do not dare to act recklessly.
Like the monarchs of Yu and Xia, who were regarded as emperors, were in poverty themselves, and obeyed the people. How could there be any rule of law?
I respect myself as the King of Ten Thousand Chariots, but I don’t have the reality of ten thousand chariots. I want to make a thousand chariots and set up followers of ten thousand chariots to be worthy of my title of King of Ten Thousand Chariots.
Moreover, the late emperor arose from the princes, annexed the world, and the world has been stabilized. He resisted the foreign barbarians from all directions, made the borders peaceful, and built palaces to show his pride. You have seen the beginning and development of the late emperor's achievements.
Now, in the two years since I came to the throne, groups of thieves have arisen at the same time. You cannot stop them, and you want to abolish what the late emperor has done. This is not repaying the late emperor, and secondly, you are not loyal to me. Why are you in the current position?
Feng Quji, Li Si, and Feng Jie were handed over to jailers to be imprisoned, and their various other crimes were investigated and investigated.
Feng Quji and Feng Jie said: A general cannot be insulted.
Died by suicide.
Li Si was eventually imprisoned and suffered five punishments.
Three years later, Zhang Han and others led their troops to surround Julu. General Xiang Yu of Chu led the soldiers of Chu to rescue Julu.
In the winter, Zhao Gao became prime minister, thoroughly examined Li Si, and killed him.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
夏，章邯等战数卻，二世使人让邯，邯恐，使长史欣请事。
赵高弗见，又弗信。
欣恐，亡去，高使人捕追不及。
欣见邯曰： 赵高用事於中，将军有功亦诛，无功亦诛。
项羽急击秦军，虏王离，邯等遂以兵降诸侯。
八月己亥，赵高欲为乱，恐群臣不听，乃先设验，持鹿献於二世，曰： 马也。
二世笑曰： 丞相误邪？
谓鹿为马。
问左右，左右或默，或言马以阿顺赵高。
或言鹿，高因阴中诸言鹿者以法。
後群臣皆畏高。
高前数言 关东盗毋能为也 ，及项羽虏秦将王离等钜鹿下而前，章邯等军数卻，上书请益助，燕、赵、齐、楚、韩、魏皆立为王，自关以东，大氐尽畔秦吏应诸侯，诸侯咸率其众西乡。
沛公将数万人已屠武关，使人私於高，高恐二世怒，诛及其身，乃谢病不朝见。
translation: 
In the summer, Zhang Han and others repeatedly retreated from the war. The Second Emperor sent people to rebuke Zhang Han. Zhang Han was frightened and sent Commander Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
Zhao Gao refused to meet him and did not trust him.
Sima Xin was scared and ran away. Zhao Gao sent people to hunt him down but failed to catch up.
Sima Xin saw Zhang Han and said: Zhao Gao controls the power in the court. Generals who have meritorious service will be killed, and generals who have no merit will also be killed.
Xiang Yu quickly attacked the Qin army and captured Wang Li. Zhang Han and others led their troops to surrender to the various princes.
In August Jihai, Zhao Gao wanted to cause chaos, but was afraid that the officials would not obey, so he made an experiment in advance and presented a deer to the emperor, saying: "This is a horse."
The Second Emperor smiled and said: "Is the Prime Minister wrong?"
Say the deer is a horse.
Zhao Gao asked the ministers on the left and right. Some of the ministers on the left and right were silent, and some said they were horses, coming to flatter Zhao Gao.
Some said it was a deer, and Zhao Gao used the law to secretly frame those who said it was a deer.
Later, the ministers were all afraid of Zhao Gao.
Zhao Gao had said many times before that the thieves in Guandong would do nothing. When Xiang Yu captured the Qin general Wang Li and others in Julu and continued to advance, Zhang Han and others' troops retreated many times and sent letters requesting more troops. Yan, Zhao, Qi, Chu, Han, and Wei all declared themselves kings. From the east of Hangu Pass, almost all of them betrayed the Qin officials and responded to the various princes. The princes led their armies to advance westward.
Peigong led tens of thousands of people to massacre Wuguan and sent people to have an affair with Zhao Gao. Zhao Gao was afraid that the second generation would be angry and be killed, so he refused to go to court on the pretext that he was ill.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
二世梦白虎齧其左骖马，杀之，心不乐，怪问占梦。
卜曰： 泾水为祟。
二世乃斋於望夷宫，欲祠泾，沈四白马。
使使责让高以盗贼事。
高惧，乃阴与其婿咸阳令阎乐、其弟赵成谋曰： 上不听谏，今事急，欲归祸於吾宗。
吾欲易置上，更立公子婴。
子婴仁俭，百姓皆载其言。
使郎中令为内应，诈为有大贼，令乐召吏发卒，追劫乐母置高舍。遣乐将吏卒千馀人至望夷宫殿门，缚卫令仆射，曰： 贼入此，何不止？
卫令曰： 周庐设卒甚谨，安得贼敢入宫？
乐遂斩卫令，直将吏入 行射，郎宦者大惊，或走或格，格者辄死，死者数十人。
郎中令与乐俱入，射上幄坐帏。
二世怒，召左右，左右皆惶扰不斗。
旁有宦者一人，侍不敢去。
二世入内，谓曰： 公何不蚤告我？
translation: 
The second son dreamed that a white tiger bit the horse on the left side of his car, and finally the horse was bitten to death. The second son felt unhappy and felt strange, so he went to ask the dreamer.
The dreamer predicted: The water god of Jingshui is causing trouble.
So the second generation fasted in Wangyi Palace, intending to sacrifice to the water god of Jingshui River, and sank four white horses into the water.
An envoy was sent to accuse Zhao Gao about the thieves.
Zhao Gao was panicked, so he secretly discussed with his son-in-law Xianyang Ling Yan Le and his brother Zhao Cheng: The emperor did not listen to the advice. Now the matter is critical and he wants to blame our family.
I plan to abolish the second generation and make another son, the Young Master, the emperor.
Young Master Ying was benevolent and thrifty, and the people all listened to his words.
Zhao Gao sent his lieutenant Ling to act as an internal agent and deceived him into saying that a large group of thieves was coming. He ordered Yan Le to call the officials to send troops to pursue him. He also kidnapped Yan Le's mother and placed her in Zhao Gao's home. Zhao Gao sent Yan Le to lead more than a thousand officials to the gate of Wangyi Palace, tied up the guards and ordered Pu She to tie up, and said: The thieves ran in here, why didn't you stop them?
The Wei Order said: There are soldiers in the houses within the surrounding walls, and the defense is very strict. How can thieves dare to break into the palace?
Yan Le killed the guard and led the officials straight into the palace, shooting arrows as they walked. The officials and eunuchs were greatly alarmed. Some fled, while others came forward to fight. All those who fought were killed, and dozens of people died.
Lang Zhongling and Yan Le entered the residence of the second emperor together and shot arrows at the curtain where the second emperor was sitting.
The Second Emperor was furious and called his attendants. They were all frightened and refused to fight.
There was a eunuch beside him who accompanied the second generation and did not dare to leave.
The second generation fled indoors and said to the eunuch accompanying him: "Why didn't you tell me earlier?"


Chunk 38: 
original: 
乃至於此！
宦者曰： 臣不敢言，故得全。
使臣蚤言，皆已诛，安得至今？
阎乐前即二世数曰： 足下骄恣，诛杀无道，天下共畔足下，足下其自为计。
二世曰： 丞相可得见否？
乐曰： 不可。
二世曰： 吾原得一郡为王。
弗许。
又曰： 原为万户侯。
弗许。
曰： 原与妻子为黔首，比诸公子。
阎乐曰： 臣受命於丞相，为天下诛足下，足下虽多言，臣不敢报。
麾其兵进。
二世自杀。
阎乐归报赵高，赵高乃悉召诸大臣公子，告以诛二世之状。
曰： 秦故王国，始皇君天下，故称帝。
今六国复自立，秦地益小，乃以空名为帝，不可。
宜为王如故，便。
立二世之兄子公子婴为秦王。
以黔首葬二世杜南宜春苑中。
令子婴斋，当庙见，受王玺。
translation: 
It has come to this!
The eunuch said: I dare not say it, so I can save my life.
If I had told you earlier, I would have been killed. How could I still be alive now?
Yan Le came forward to the Second Emperor and listed his crimes and said: You are arrogant and wanton, massacring the officials and people, and you are extremely unjust. The people of the world have betrayed you. You can make your own plans.
The Second Emperor said: Can I see the Prime Minister?
Yan Le said: No.
The second said: I hope to get a county and be the king of it.
Yan Le refused.
He also said: I would like to be a Marquis of Ten Thousand Households.
Yan Le still refused.
The Second Emperor said: I hope to become common people with my wife and children, just like those young men.
Yan Le said: I was ordered by the Prime Minister to execute you on behalf of the people of the world. Although you said a lot, I dare not report it to the Prime Minister.
Yan Le directed his soldiers to attack forward.
The second commits suicide.
Yan Le came back to report to Zhao Gao, who summoned all the ministers and princes and told them about the killing of the second son.
Zhao Gao said: Qin was originally a kingdom of vassals, and the first emperor ruled the world, so he was called the emperor.
Now that the six countries have established their own political power, Qin's territory is shrinking day by day, but it is still claiming the title of emperor in vain. This is unacceptable.
It is more appropriate to be king as in the past.
He made the son of his second brother, Gong Ziying, the king of Qin.
The second generation was buried in Yichun Garden in the south of Du County with common people's rites.
Zhao Gao asked Ziying to fast, visit his ancestors in the ancestral temple, and receive the seal of King Qin.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
斋五日，子婴与其子二人谋曰： 丞相高杀二世望夷宫，恐群臣诛之，乃详以义立我。
我闻赵高乃与楚约，灭秦宗室而王关中。
今使我斋见庙，此欲因庙中杀我。
我称病不行，丞相必自来，来则杀之。
高使人请子婴数辈，子婴不行，高果自往，曰： 宗庙重事，王柰何不行？
子婴遂刺杀高於斋宫，三族高家以徇咸阳。
子婴为秦王四十六日，楚将沛公破秦军入武关，遂至霸上，使人约降子婴。
子婴即系颈以组，白马素车，奉天子玺符，降轵道旁。
沛公遂入咸阳，封宫室府库，还军霸上。
居月馀，诸侯兵至，项籍为从长，杀子婴及秦诸公子宗族。
遂屠咸阳，烧其宫室，虏其子女，收其珍宝货财，诸侯共分之。
translation: 
After fasting for five days, Ziying discussed with his two sons: Prime Minister Zhao Gao killed the second son in Wangyi Palace. He was afraid that the officials would punish him, so he pretended to make me king in the name of righteousness.
I heard that Zhao Gao made an agreement with Chu that he would destroy the Qin clan and become king in Guanzhong.
Now they ask me to fast and visit the ancestral temple. They want to kill me while I am in the ancestral temple.
I told him that if he didn't go away if he was ill, the prime minister would come to me personally and kill him when he came.
Zhao Gao sent people several times to invite Ziying, but Ziying refused to go. Zhao Gao came in person and said, "Visiting the ancestral temple is a big event. Why doesn't the king go?"
Ziying stabbed Zhao Gao to death in the fasting palace, executed all three members of Zhao Gao's family, and showed them to the public in Xianyang.
Ziying was the king of Qin for forty-six days. The Chu general Pei Gong defeated the Qin army, entered Wuguan, came to Bashang, and sent people to ask Ziying to surrender.
Ziying tied his neck with a ribbon, rode on a white horse, held the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
So Pei Gong entered Xianyang, closed the official offices and treasury, and returned to the army. More than a month passed.
The armies of various princes arrived, and Xiang Yu, the leader of the alliance, killed Ziying and the clan of Prince Qin.
Xianyang was massacred, the palaces were burned, the sons and women of Qin were captured, the treasures were plundered, and the princes divided them among themselves.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
灭秦之後，各分其地为三，名曰雍王、塞王、翟王，号曰三秦。
项羽为西楚霸王，主命分天下王诸侯，秦竟灭矣。
後五年，天下定於汉。
太史公曰：秦之先伯翳，尝有勋於唐虞之际，受土赐姓。
及殷夏之间微散。
至周之衰，秦兴，邑于西垂。
自缪公以来，稍蚕食诸侯，竟成始皇。
始皇自以为功过五帝，地广三王，而羞与之侔。
善哉乎贾生推言之也！
曰：秦并兼诸侯山东三十馀郡，缮津关，据险塞，修甲兵而守之。
然陈涉以戍卒散乱之众数百，奋臂大呼，不用弓戟之兵，鉏櫌白梃，望屋而食，横行天下。
秦人阻险不守，关梁不阖，长戟不刺，彊弩不射。
楚师深入，战於鸿门，曾无籓篱之艰。
於是山东大扰，诸侯并起，豪俊相立。
秦使章邯将而东征，章邯因以三军之众要市於外，以谋其上。
translation: 
After the Qin State was eliminated, its land was divided into three parts, named King Yong, King Sai, and King Zhai, known as the Three Qins.
Xiang Yu was the overlord of Western Chu and was responsible for dividing the world's princes and kings. The Qin Dynasty finally perished.
Five years later, the Han Dynasty unified the country.
Tai Shigong said: Boyi, the ancestor of the Qin State, had made great achievements during the Tang and Yu periods, acquired land, and was given the surname Ying.
Between Xia and Yin, the power was weakened and dispersed.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, the Qin State emerged and built a city in Xicui.
Since Duke Mu, he has gradually encroached on the princes, and the unification project was finally completed by the First Emperor.
The First Emperor believed that his merits exceeded those of the Five Emperors, and his territory was broader than the Three Kings, and he was ashamed to be compared with the Three Kings and Five Emperors.
Jia Sheng's discussion is very good. He said:
Qin annexed various vassal states and more than thirty counties in Shandong, repaired and managed Jindu and passes, occupied dangerous passes and fortresses, trained troops, and defended them.
However, Chen She led hundreds of scattered garrison soldiers and raised their arms and shouted. There is no need for weapons such as bows and stems. Instead, they only use hoes, knives and sticks. They go wherever they go and eat wherever they go, and they dominate the world.
The Qin people had dangers but could not hold on; they had bridges but could not block them; they had long trunks but could not assassinate; they had powerful crossbows but could not fire them.
Zhang Chu's army went deep into the hinterland and fought at Hongmen, without even the same difficulty as crossing the fence.
So there was great chaos in Shandong, the princes rose up at the same time, and the heroes established each other as kings.
Qin sent Zhang Han to lead his army to march eastward. Zhang Han used the troops he commanded to threaten others, seek personal gain, and plot against his king.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
群臣之不信，可见於此矣。
子婴立，遂不寤。
藉使子婴有庸主之材，仅得中佐，山东虽乱，秦之地可全而有，宗庙之祀未当绝也。
秦地被山带河以为固，四塞之国也。
自缪公以来，至於秦王，二十馀君，常为诸侯雄。
岂世世贤哉？
其势居然也。
且天下尝同心并力而攻秦矣。
当此之世，贤智并列，良将行其师，贤相通其谋，然困於阻险而不能进，秦乃延入战而为之开关，百万之徒逃北而遂坏。
岂勇力智慧不足哉？
形不利，势不便也。
秦小邑并大城，守险塞而军，高垒毋战，闭关据厄，荷戟而守之。
诸侯起於匹夫，以利合，非有素王之行也。
其交未亲，其下未附，名为亡秦，其实利之也。
彼见秦阻之难犯也，必退师。
安土息民，以待其敝，收弱扶罢，以令大国之君，不患不得意於海内。
translation: 
It can be seen from this that the ministers are not trustworthy.
Zi Ying established himself as king, but he did not wake up in the end.
If Ziying has the ability of an ordinary monarch, as long as he has assistant ministers with average talents, even if Shandong rebels, the Qin State's hometown can still be preserved, and the sacrifices in the ancestral temple will not be interrupted.
The land of Qin is surrounded by mountains and rivers, and the terrain is rugged. It is a country with barriers and fortresses on all sides.
From Duke Mu to the time of King Qin, there were more than twenty monarchs who often dominated the princes.
Is it true that Qin has been a wise monarch from generation to generation?
That is caused by its geographical situation.
Moreover, the world once made concerted efforts to attack Qin.
At this time, wise men gathered together, excellent generals commanded the troops, and wise prime ministers exchanged strategies with each other. However, they were blocked by the steep terrain and could not move forward. Qin opened the door for them and lured the enemy deep into the country to fight. As a result, millions of people in the six kingdoms fled and collapsed.
Is this a lack of force and wisdom?
It was due to the unfavorable terrain and inconvenient situation.
The Qin State merged small towns into large cities, garrisoned troops in dangerous fortresses, built high forts without fighting, blocked passes, occupied dangerous passes, and guarded these places with halberds.
The princes all rose up from among the common people, and they did not have the virtues of King Su.
Their friendship is not close, and their subordinates have not sincerely surrendered. On the surface, they are seeking to destroy Qin in the name of destroying Qin, but in fact they are seeking personal gain.
They saw that Qin's terrain was dangerous and difficult to invade, so they were bound to withdraw their troops.
Qin made the people recuperate and recuperate, waiting for the decline of the princes, adopting the poor and weak, supporting the tired, and issuing orders to the princes of the great country, without fear of dissatisfaction in the world.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
贵为天子，富有天下，而身为禽者，其救败非也。
秦王足己不问，遂过而不变。
二世受之，因而不改，暴虐以重祸。
子婴孤立无亲，危弱无辅。
三主惑而终身不悟，亡，不亦宜乎？
当此时也，世非无深虑知化之士也，然所以不敢尽忠拂过者，秦俗多忌讳之禁，忠言未卒於口而身为戮没矣。
故使天下之士，倾耳而听，重足而立，拑口而不言。
是以三主失道，忠臣不敢谏，智士不敢谋，天下已乱，奸不上闻，岂不哀哉！
先王知雍蔽之伤国也，故置公卿大夫士，以饰法设刑，而天下治。
其彊也，禁暴诛乱而天下服。
其弱也，五伯征而诸侯从。
其削也，内守外附而社稷存。
故秦之盛也，繁法严刑而天下振；及其衰也，百姓怨望而海内畔矣。
translation: 
He was the emperor and rich in the world, but he was captured and became a prisoner because his strategy to save himself from defeat was incorrect.
The King of Qin was proud and complacent, and he did not humbly ask questions. He persisted in making mistakes without changing them.
The second generation inherited it and did not change it. He was cruel and cruel, which aggravated the disaster.
Ziying is alone, with no one close to him, his position is dangerous and fragile, and he has no one to help him.
These three monarchs have been confused all their lives, and their country has perished. Isn't it right?
At this time, there were people in the world who were far-sighted and could foresee changes in the situation. However, the reason why they did not dare to be loyal and direct and correct mistakes was because there were many taboos in Qin's customs. Before he could finish speaking his loyal words, he was killed.
Therefore, all the people in the world listen to orders, stand with their feet folded, and keep silent.
These three monarchs have lost the principles of governing the country. Loyal ministers dare not speak out and advise, wise men dare not make suggestions. The world is in chaos, and no one reports evil things to the monarch. Isn't this too sad!
The former king knew that obstruction and deception at the top and bottom would harm the interests of the country, so he appointed ministers, officials, and scholars to rectify laws and establish punishments to bring peace to the world.
When a country is strong, it can suppress cruelty, suppress rebellion, and bring the world under its control.
When the country was weak, the five hegemons would conquer on behalf of the emperor, and the princes would obey.
When the country's power is declining, if it is defended internally and attached externally, the country can survive but not perish.
When the Qin State was strong and prosperous, its laws were complicated and its punishments were severe, which frightened the world. When it declined, the people became resentful and the world rebelled.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
故周五序得其道，而千馀岁不绝。
秦本末并失，故不长久。
由此观之，安危之统相去远矣。
野谚曰 前事之不忘，後事之师也 。
是以君子为国，观之上古，验之当世，参以人事，察盛衰之理，审权势之宜，去就有序，变化有时，故旷日长久而社稷安矣。
襄公立，享国十二年。
初为西畤。
葬西垂。
生文公。
文公立，居西垂宫。
五十年死，葬西垂。
生静公。
静公不享国而死。
生宪公。
宪公享国十二年，居西新邑。
死，葬衙。
生武公、德公、出子。
出子享国六年，居西陵。
庶长弗忌、威累、参父三人，率贼贼出子鄙衍，葬衙。
武公立。
武公享国二十年。
居平阳封宫。
葬宣阳聚东南。
三庶长伏其罪。
德公立。
德公享国二年。
居雍大郑宫。
生宣公、成公、缪公。
translation: 
The Zhou Dynasty's principles were always in line with the right path, so for more than a thousand years, the country's fortunes continued.
The Qin Dynasty lost everything, so the country was short-lived.
From this point of view, the basis of national security is too far apart.
As the folk saying goes, "Never forget the past is the teacher of the future."
Therefore, people with moral cultivation govern the country, observe ancient gains and losses, examine contemporary actions, refer to human relations and affairs, understand the principles of ups and downs, understand the appropriate use of power and power, have a certain order of abandonment, and have an appropriate time for change, so it lasts for a long time and the country is stable.
Duke Xiang ascended the throne and reigned for twelve years.
Construction of the western border began.
Duke Xiang was buried in Xicui.
Wen Gong was born.
Duke Wen ascended the throne and lived in Xicui Palace.
He died after reigning for fifty years and was buried in Xicui.
Jinggong was born.
Duke Jin died before he ascended the throne.
Xian Gong was born.
Duke Xian reigned for twelve years and lived in Xixinyi.
After his death, he was buried in Yayi.
He gave birth to Duke Wu, Duke De, and Chuzi.
Chuzi reigned for six years and lived in Xiling.
There is no taboo on the common people. Weile and Shenfu led the thieves to kill Chuzi in Biyan and buried him in Yayi.
Duke Wu succeeded him.
Duke Wu reigned for twenty years.
Lives in Feng Palace, Pingyang.
Buried in Judongnan, Xuanyang.
Three concubine chiefs were executed.
The Duke of Virtue was established.
De Gong reigned for two years.
Lives in Dazheng Palace, Yongyi.
He gave birth to Duke Xuan, Duke Cheng and Duke Mu.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
葬阳。
初伏，以御蛊。
宣公享国十二年。
居阳宫。
葬阳。
初志闰月。
成公享国四年，居雍之宫。
葬阳。
齐伐山戎、孤竹。
缪公享国三十九年。
天子致霸。
葬雍。
缪公学著人。
生康公。
康公享国十二年。
居雍高寝。
葬竘社。
生共公。
共公享国五年，居雍高寝。
葬康公南。
生桓公。
桓公享国二十七年。
居雍太寝。
葬义里丘北。
生景公。
景公享国四十年。
居雍高寝，葬丘里南。
生毕公。
毕公享国三十六年。
葬车里北。
生夷公。
夷公不享国。死，葬左宫。
生惠公。
惠公享国十年。
葬车里。
生悼公。
悼公享国十五年。
葬僖公西。
城雍。
生剌龚公。
剌龚公享国三十四年。
葬入里。
生躁公、怀公。
其十年，彗星见。
translation: 
Buried in Yangyi.
They began to stipulate the Dog Day Festival and kill dogs at the four gates of the city to get rid of the heat and plague.
Duke Xuan reigned for twelve years.
Lives in Yang Palace.
Buried in Yangyi.
Start recording leap months.
Duke Cheng reigned for four years and lived in the palace of Yongyi.
Buried in Yangyi.
The state of Qi attacked Shanrong and Guzhu.
Duke Mu reigned for thirty-nine years.
The emperor gave the status of overlord.
Buried in Yongyi area.
Duke Mu learned from the guards between the palace gate and the screen.
Kang Gong was born.
Duke Kang reigned for twelve years.
He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi.
Buried in Leishe.
A father-in-law was born.
The Duke reigned for five years. He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi.
Buried south of Kang Gong.
He gave birth to Duke Huan.
Duke Huan reigned for twenty-seven years.
He lives in Taibi, Yongyi.
Buried north of Yiliqiu.
Jinggong was born.
Jinggong reigned for forty years.
He lives in Gaobei, Yongyi. Buried south of Chuli.
Bi Gong was born.
Bi Gong reigned for thirty-six years.
Buried north of the car.
Yi Gong was born.
Duke Yi died before he ascended the throne and was buried in the left palace.
Hui Gong was born.
Duke Hui reigned for ten years.
Buried in car.
The car is located between the tombs of Kanggong and Jinggong.
Gao Gong was born. Duke Yu reigned for fifteen years.
Buried to the west of Xi Gong.
Build a city in Yongyi.
Gong Gong was born.
Gong Gong reigned for thirty-four years.
Buried inside.
He gave birth to Cao Gong and Huai Gong.
Ten years after Gong Gong was assassinated, a comet appeared.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
躁公享国十四年。
居受寝。
葬悼公南。
其元年，彗星见。
怀公从晋来。
享国四年。
葬栎圉氏。
生灵公。
诸臣围怀公，怀公自杀。
肃灵公，昭子子也。
居泾阳。
享国十年。
葬悼公西。
生简公。
简公从晋来。
享国十五年。
葬僖公西。
生惠公。
其七年。百姓初带剑。
惠公享国十三年。
葬陵圉。
生出公。
出公享国二年。
出公自杀，葬雍。
献公享国二十三年。
葬嚣圉。
生孝公。
孝公享国二十四年。
葬弟圉。
生惠文王。
其十三年，始都咸阳。
惠文王享国二十七年。
葬公陵。
生悼武王。
悼武王享国四年，葬永陵。
昭襄王享国五十六年。
葬茝阳。
生孝文王。
孝文王享国一年。
葬寿陵。
生庄襄王。
庄襄王享国三年。
葬茝阳。
生始皇帝。
吕不韦相。
translation: 
Duke Cao reigned for fourteen years.
Live and sleep.
Buried in the south of Mourning Palace.
In the first year of Cao AD, a comet appeared.
Duke Huai returned from Jin.
Reigned for four years.
Buried in Queryu.
Ling Gong was born.
The ministers besieged Duke Huai, and Duke Huai committed suicide.
Duke Suling was the son of Zhaozi.
Lives in Jingyang.
Ten years in office.
Buried to the west of the Duke.
Gong Jian was born.
Duke Jian returned from Jin.
Reigned for fifteen years.
Buried to the west of Xi Gong.
Hui Gong was born.
In the seventh year of Duke Jian's reign, people began to wear swords.
Duke Hui reigned for thirteen years.
Buried in the mausoleum.
The father-in-law was born.
Chugong reigned for two years.
He committed suicide while on duty and was buried in Yongyi.
Duke Xian reigned for twenty-three years.
Buried in Xiaoyu.
Xiaogong was born.
Duke Xiao reigned for twenty-four years.
Buried in his brother's country.
He gave birth to King Huiwen.
In the thirteenth year of Duke Xiao's reign, Xianyang began to be built as the capital.
King Huiwen reigned for twenty-seven years.
Buried in Gongling.
King Wu Wu was born.
King Wu reigned for four years. Buried in Yongling.
King Zhaoxiang reigned for fifty-six years.
Buried in Suyang.
Born King Xiaowen.
King Xiaowen reigned for one year.
Buried in Shouling.
He gave birth to King Zhuang Xiang.
King Zhuang Xiang reigned for three years.
Buried in Suyang.
The first emperor was born.
Lu Buwei was the prime minister.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
献公立七年，初行为市。
十年，为户籍相伍。
孝公立十六年。时桃李冬华。
惠文王生十九年而立。立二年，初行钱。
有新生婴兒曰 秦且王 。
悼武王生十九年而立。立三年，渭水赤三日。
昭襄王生十九年而立。
立四年，初为田开阡陌。
孝文王生五十三年而立。
庄襄王生三十二年而立。
立二年，取太原地。
庄襄王元年，大赦，脩先王功臣，施德厚骨肉，布惠於民。
东周与诸侯谋秦，秦使相国不韦诛之，尽入其国。
秦不绝其祀，以阳人地赐周君，奉其祭祀。
始皇享国三十七年。
葬郦邑。
生二世皇帝。
始皇生十三年而立。
二世皇帝享国三年。
葬宜春。
赵高为丞相安武侯。
二世生十二年而立。
右秦襄公至二世，六百一十岁。
孝明皇帝十七年十月十五日乙丑，曰：
周历已移，仁不代母。秦直其位，吕政残虐。
translation: 
Seven years after Duke Xian ascended the throne, he began to set up markets and conduct trade.
In ten years, household registration will be established and compiled according to groups of five families.
In the sixteenth year of Duke Xiao's accession to the throne, the peach and plum trees bloomed in winter.
King Huiwen came to the throne in the 19th year after his death. In the second year after he took the throne, he began to mint and issue coins.
A newly born baby said that Qin will become the king of the world.
King Wu Wu ascended the throne in the 19th year after his death. Three years after he ascended the throne, the Wei River turned red for three days.
King Zhaoxiang came to the throne nineteen years after his death.
Four years after he took the throne, he began to set up new field boundaries on farmland.
King Xiaowen came to the throne fifty-three years after his death.
King Zhuang Xiang ascended the throne thirty-two years after his death.
In the second year after taking the throne, he captured the Taiyuan area.
In the first year of King Zhuang and Xiang's reign, he granted a general amnesty to the whole country. He respected the heroes of the previous king, extended kindness and kindness to the family members, and spread benefits to the people.
The Eastern Zhou Dynasty and other princes plotted against the Qin State, and the Qin State sent Prime Minister Lu Buwei to destroy the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and annex its territory.
The State of Qin did not cut off its sacrifices and gave the Yangren region to Zhou Jun, where he performed the sacrifices of Zhou ancestors.
The First Emperor reigned for thirty-seven years.
Buried in Liyi.
A second emperor was born.
The First Emperor ascended the throne thirteen years after his death.
The second emperor reigned for three years.
Buried in Yichun.
Zhao Gao was made prime minister and granted the title of Marquis of Anwu.
He ascended the throne twelve years after his death.
From the reign of Duke Xianggong of Qin Dynasty to the second year, it was the 610th year.
On October 15, the 17th year of Emperor Xiaoming's reign, Ban Gu said:
The calendar of the Zhou Dynasty has passed. According to the norms of benevolence and virtue, the dynasty on the son's throne cannot replace the position of the dynasty on the mother's throne. However, it regards itself as the mother, and Lu Zheng is cruel and tyrannical in his administration.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
然以诸侯十三，并兼天下，极情纵欲，养育宗亲。
三十七年，兵无所不加，制作政令，施於後王。
盖得圣人之威，河神授图，据狼、狐，蹈参、伐，佐政驱除，距之称始皇。
始皇既殁，胡亥极愚，郦山未毕，复作阿房，以遂前策。
云 凡所为贵有天下者，肆意极欲，大臣至欲罢先君所为 。
诛斯、去疾，任用赵高。
痛哉言乎！人头畜鸣。
不威不伐恶，不笃不虚亡，距之不得留，残虐以促期，虽居形便之国，犹不得存。
子婴度次得嗣，冠玉冠，佩华绂，车黄屋，从百司，谒七庙。
translation: 
However, at the age of thirteen, he was able to annex the world, indulge his lust, and support his clan.
For thirty-seven years, troops were everywhere, and political orders were formulated and passed on to future emperors.
He probably gained the power of the saint, and the river god gave him a picture book. He took possession of wolves, foxes, ginseng, and cutters. God helped him drive away the world, and finally he was known as the first emperor.
After the death of the First Emperor, Hu Hai was extremely stupid. Before the Lishan project was completed, he continued to build the Afang Palace to complete the plans left by the previous First Emperor.
It is said that all those who are noble and have control of the world should do whatever they want, but the ministers actually want to abolish what the ancestors did.
He killed Li Si and Feng Quji and appointed Zhao Gao.
What II said is really heartbreaking! He has a human head but speaks like an animal.
Without relying on the power of the emperor, one cannot boast of one's evil, and without accumulating a lot of evil, one cannot easily perish. When the throne cannot be maintained, cruelty and tyranny will shorten the reign. Although it occupies a land with favorable terrain, it is still unable to establish a country.
Ziying was established as king according to the order. He wore a jade crown on his head and a gorgeous printed silk ribbon on his body. The carriage was covered with yellow silk. He was followed by hundreds of officials and paid homage to his ancestors' spiritual temples.


Chunk 48: 
original: 
小人乘非位，莫不怳忽失守，偷安日日，独能长念卻虑，父子作权，近取於户牖之间，竟诛猾臣，为君讨贼。
高死之後，宾婚未得尽相劳，餐未及下咽，酒未及濡脣，楚兵已屠关中，真人翔霸上，素车婴组，奉其符玺，以归帝者。
郑伯茅旌鸾刀，严王退舍。
河决不可复壅，鱼烂不可复全。
贾谊、司马迁曰： 向使婴有庸主之才，仅得中佐，山东虽乱，秦之地可全而有，宗庙之祀未当绝也。
秦之积衰，天下土崩瓦解，虽有周旦之材，无所复陈其巧，而以责一日之孤，误哉！
俗传秦始皇起罪恶，胡亥极，得其理矣。
复责小子，云秦地可全，所谓不通时变者也。
translation: 
If a villain ascends to a position that does not suit his status, he will be in a trance. If he misses something, he will live in peace every day. However, Ziying can make long-term plans and eliminate worries. The father and son used tricks to kill the cunning traitor and kill the thief on behalf of the dead emperor just inside the door.
After the death of Zhao Gao, Bin Xin Yinya had not given all his condolences, the rice had not had time to swallow, the wine had not had time to touch her lips, the Chu soldiers had slaughtered Guanzhong, the immortals flew to the top, and Ziying was riding on a white horse, tied around his neck with a ribbon, holding his talisman and seal, and came to surrender as the real emperor.
It's a bit like the time when Uncle Zheng held a maojing on his left and a luan knife on his right, while King Chuzhuang retreated seven miles.
The Yellow River burst can no longer be blocked, and the rotten fish cannot be restored to integrity.
Jia Yi and Sima Qian said: If Ziying had the ability of an ordinary monarch at that time, as long as he had the assistant ministers of moderate talents, even if Shandong rebelled, the Qin State's hometown could still be preserved, and the ancestral temple sacrifices would not be interrupted.
The decline of the Qin State was accumulated over time, and the world fell apart. Even though there were talents like Zhou Dan, he could no longer use his intelligence and wisdom to blame a monarch who was on the throne for a short period of time. That would be wrong!
There is a popular saying among the people that evil originated from Qin Shihuang and reached its peak during the reign of Hu Hai. This view is reasonable.
Jia Yi and Sima Qian blamed Ziying again, saying that the Qin State's hometown could be preserved. This is what they call people who do not understand the changes in the situation.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
纪季以酅，春秋不名。
吾读秦纪，至於子婴车裂赵高，未尝不健其决，怜其志。
婴死生之义备矣。
translation: 
Ji Ji gave Yi to Qi, and the "Spring and Autumn" praised him without calling him by his name.
I read "Qin Ji" and read that Zi Ying's chariot split Zhao Gao. I thought his decision was bold and powerful, and I sympathized with his thoughts.
In terms of the righteousness of life and death, Ziying has it.


