Chunk 0: 
original: 
贾山，颍川人也。
祖父祛，故魏王时博士弟子也。
山受学祛，所言涉猎书记，不能为醇儒。
尝给事颍阴侯为骑。
孝文时，言治乱之道，借秦为谕，名曰《至言》。
其辞曰：臣闻为人臣者，尽忠竭愚，以直谏主，不避死亡之诛者，臣山是也。
臣不敢以久远谕，愿借秦以为谕，唯陛下少加意焉。
夫布衣韦带之士，修身于内，成名于外，而使后世不绝息。
至秦则不然。贵为天子，富有天下，赋敛重数，百姓任罢，赭衣半道，群盗满山，使天下之人戴目而视，倾耳而听。
一夫大呼，天下响应者，陈胜是也。
秦非徒如此也，起咸阳而西至雍，离宫三百，钟鼓帷帐，不移而具。
又为阿房之殿，殿高数十仞，东西五里，南北千步，从车罗骑，四马鹜驰，旌旗不桡。
为宫室之丽至于此，使其后世曾不得聚庐而托处焉。
为驰道于天下，东穷燕、齐，南极吴、楚，江湖之上，濒海之观毕至。
道广五十步，三丈而树，厚筑其外，隐以金椎，树以青松。
为驰道之丽至于此，使其后世曾不得邪径而托足焉。
死葬乎骊山，吏徒数十万人，旷日十年。
下彻三泉合采金石，冶铜锢其内，■涂其外，被以珠玉，饰以翡翠，中成观游，上成山林，为葬薶之侈至于此，使其后世曾不得蓬颗蔽冢而托葬焉。
秦以熊罴之力，虎狼之心，蚕食诸侯，并吞海内，而不笃礼义，故天殃已加矣。
臣昧死以闻，愿陛下少留意而详择其中。
translation: 
Jia Shan is from Yingchuan.
His grandfather Jia Qu was a doctoral student of King Wei during the Warring States Period.
Jia Shan studied under Jia Qu, and his remarks were widespread in various schools of thought, but he could not specialize in Confucianism.
He once worked under Marquis Yingyin as a riding attendant.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Jia Shan used Qin as an example to talk about the way to control chaos. He titled it "Zhi Yan" and said this:
I heard that as a minister, you should use your wholeheartedness and wisdom to advise your superior directly, even if you don't hesitate to behead him. This is what I did with Jia Shan.
I dare not give examples that are too far back. I would like to use Qin as an example. I hope your majesty will pay more attention to it.
People who are poor and humble can cultivate their own moral character, become famous in the world, and make future generations prosperous.
But the Qin Dynasty was not like this. With the dignity of the emperor and the great wealth in the world, it imposed tyranny and extorted money, which made the people tired of coping. The roads were filled with criminals, and there were hordes of thieves in the mountains and fields. Everyone in the world was eager to cause chaos.
One person raised his arms and shouted, and the whole country responded, creating the anti-Qin movement initiated by Chen Sheng.
Not only that, the Qin Dynasty also built more than 300 palaces from Xianyang to the west to Yongcheng, and added bells, drums and curtains to them, so that they can be enjoyed everywhere without having to remove them from elsewhere.
He also built the Epang Palace, which was dozens of feet high, five miles long from east to west, and a thousand paces wide from north to south. Cars and horses could gallop through it without any hindrance, and even the flags on the carriages could not be crooked.
He built such a magnificent palace, but his descendants did not even have a house to stay in.
He also built roads leading to various places, reaching as far as Yanqi, Wuchu in the south, the rivers and lakes, and the shores of the East China Sea, reaching everywhere.
The road is fifty steps wide, with trees planted every three feet. A thick wall is built outside the road, tamped with iron vertebrae, and green pine trees are planted.
Building such a spectacular road has left no room for future generations to pass through.
The Lishan Mausoleum, where the First Emperor was buried after his death, took ten years to build with the labor of hundreds of thousands of prisoners under the supervision of officials.
The tomb is deep, with spring water flowing down from it. Ore is collected, copper is smelted and the inner wall is cast to seal it. The outside is painted with raw lacquer and decorated with pearls, jade and jade. There are palaces and other playgrounds inside the tomb, and vegetation is planted on the tomb, just like a mountain forest. Building such a luxurious mausoleum deprived his descendants of even a small earthen grave with grass growing there.
Qin, with its strong national power, was as greedy as tigers and wolves, cannibalizing the princes and swallowing up the world without committing to the implementation of etiquette and justice, so the heaven sent disasters to punish it.
I'm risking my life to tell you. I hope you'll pay attention and carefully choose where it makes sense.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
臣闻忠臣之事君也，言切直则不用而身危，不切直则不可以明道，故切直之言，明主所欲急闻，忠臣之所以蒙死而竭知也。
地之硗者，虽有善种，不能生焉；江皋河濒，虽有恶种，无不猥大。
昔者夏、商之季世，虽关龙逢、箕子、比干之贤，身死亡而道不用。
文王之时，豪俊之士皆得竭其智，刍荛采薪之人皆得尽其力，此周之所以兴也。
故地之美者善养禾，君之仁者善养士。
雷霆之所击，无不摧折者；万钧之所压，无不糜灭者。
今人主之威，非特雷霆也；势重，非特万钧也。
开道而求谏，和颜色而受之，用其言而显其身，士犹恐惧而不敢自尽，又乃况于纵欲恣行暴虐，恶闻其过乎！
震之以威，压之以重，则虽有尧、舜之智，孟贲之勇，岂有不摧折者哉？
如此，则人主不得闻其过失矣；弗闻，则社稷危矣。
古者圣王之制，史在前书过失，工诵箴谏，瞽诵诗谏，公卿比谏，士传言谏，庶人谤于道，商旅议于市，然后君得闻其过失也。
闻其过失而改之，见义而从之，所以永有天下也。
天子之尊，四海之内，其义莫不为臣。
然而养三老于大学，亲执酱而馈，执爵而酳，祝饐在前，祝鲠在后，公卿奉杖，大夫进履，举贤以自辅弼，求修正之士使直谏。
故以天子之尊，尊养三老，视孝也；立辅弼之臣者，恐骄也；置直谏之士者，恐不得闻其过也；学问至于刍荛者，求兽无餍也；商人庶人诽谤已而改之，从善无不听也。
昔者，秦政力并万国，富有天下，破六国以为郡县，筑长城以为关塞。
translation: 
I have heard that when a loyal minister serves the monarch and his words are sincere but not trusted, his life will be endangered. If he is not sincere and sincere, he will not be able to explain the right way. Therefore, deep and sincere advice is what a wise monarch is eager to hear, and what loyal ministers want to say with all their wisdom and at the expense of their lives.
On barren land, even if there are good seeds, crops will not grow; on the silt land on the banks of rivers, even if there are poor seeds, lush seedlings can grow.
In the last days of the Xia Dynasty and Shang Dynasty, although there were sages like Long Feng, Ji Zi, and Bigan who sacrificed their lives for the way of justice, their way was not implemented.
During the reign of King Wen of Zhou, heroes and wise men could give full play to their talents, and common people who cut grass and collected firewood could also do their part. This was the reason for the rise of the Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the fertile land is conducive to the growth of seedlings, and the benevolent monarch is good at supporting outstanding talents.
Everything struck by thunder will be broken; everything pressed by ten thousand stones will be shattered.
Now the power of the monarch is more than just thunder; the weight of power is more than just the tyrannical force.
They open up a wide range of opinions in order to seek advice, accept and adopt their suggestions cheerfully, and give those who give advice a glorious status. Even so, the scholars are still afraid and dare not express their opinions fully. What's more, the monarch does whatever he wants, is tyrannical and hates to hear his own faults?
Use force and power to intimidate and suppress them. Even if there are people as wise as Yao and Shun and as brave as Meng Ben, who will not be crushed and subdued?
In this case, the monarch will not be able to hear his own faults; if he cannot hear his own faults, the country will be in danger.
The system of the ancient sage-kings was as follows: historians recorded the monarch's faults in front of them, poets recited proverbs to admonish the monarch, blind people recited poems to admonish the monarch, ministers gave honest advice, scholars passed documents to express their opinions, civilians criticized the monarch's faults on the road, and merchants discussed the monarch's faults in the market. Only then did the monarch hear his faults.
Correct your mistakes when you hear them, and follow the good ones, and you will rule the world for a long time.
With the dignity of the Son of Heaven, there is no one in the world who is not willing to be a subject out of kindness and righteousness.
However, he supported the three elders in Taixue. The emperor personally provided food and drink, and then brought wine and wine. Zhu Chi and Zhu Chi served him in the front and back. The ministers held canes for him, and the doctors put on his shoes. He promoted talented people to assist him, and sought out honest people to give advice.
Therefore, respecting the three elders with the dignity of the emperor is to show one's filial piety; appointing assistant ministers is to prevent one's own pride; appointing people to give direct advice is because one is afraid that one's faults will not be heard; asking for advice from those who cut grass and chop wood is because one seeks perfection and is never satisfied; businessmen and common people accuse one's own faults and are able to correct them because they follow the good and listen to everything.
Once upon a time, King Yingzheng of Qin conquered the princes by force, ruled the world, wiped out the six kingdoms, established counties and counties, and built the Great Wall as a border pass.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
秦地之固，大小之势，轻重之权，其与一家之富，一夫之强，胡可胜计也！
然而兵破于陈涉，地夺于刘氏者，何也？
秦王贪狼暴虐，残贼天下，穷困万民，以适其欲也。
昔者，周盖千八百国，以九州之民养千八百国之君，用民之力不过岁三日，什一而籍，君有余财，民有余力，而颂声作。
秦皇帝以千八百国之民自养，力罢不能胜其役，财尽不能胜其求。
一君之身耳，所以自养者驰骋弋猎之娱，天下弗能供也。
劳罢者不得休息，饥寒者不得衣食，亡罪而死刑者无所告诉，人与之为怨，家与之为仇，故天下坏也。
秦皇帝身在之时，天下已坏矣，而弗自知也。
秦皇帝东巡狩，至会稽、琅邪，刻石著其功，自以为过尧、舜统；县石铸钟虡，筛土筑阿房之宫，自以为万世有天下也。
古者圣王作谥，三四十世耳，虽尧、舜、禹、汤、文、武累世广德以为子孙基业，无过二三十世者也。
秦皇帝曰死而以谥法，是父子名号有时相袭也，以一至万，则世世不相复也，故死而号曰始皇帝，其次曰二世皇帝者，欲以一至万也。
秦皇帝计其功德，度其后嗣，世世无穷，然身死才数月耳，天下四面而攻之，宗庙灭绝矣。
秦皇帝居灭绝之中而不自知者何也？
天下莫敢告也。
其所以莫敢告者何也？
亡养老之义，亡辅弼之臣，亡进谏之士，纵恣行诛，退诽谤之人，杀直谏之士，是以道谀偷合苟容，比其德则贤于尧、舜，课其功则贤于汤、武，天下已溃而莫之告也。
诗曰： 匪言不能，胡此畏忌，听言则对，谮言则退。
此之谓也。
又曰： 济济多士，文王以宁。 天下未尝亡士也，然而文王独言以宁者何也？
文王好仁则仁兴，得士而敬之则士用，用之有礼义。
故不致其爱敬，则不能尽其心；不能尽其心，则不能尽其力；不能尽其力，则不能成其功。
translation: 
How can the stability, size, and importance of the Qin Dynasty be compared with the wealth of a family and the strength of one person?
However, the army was defeated by Chen She and the land was seized by the Liu family. What was the reason?
Because the King of Qin was greedy and tyrannical, he harmed the world and made the people miserable in order to satisfy his own desires.
In the past, there were about 1,800 princes in the Zhou Dynasty, and the people of Jiuzhou supported 1,800 monarchs. They did no more than three days of corvee work every year and collected one-tenth of the tax.
Qin Shihuang supported himself with 1,800 people from the princes, but the people exhausted their physical strength and could not complete the corvee service, and exhausted their property and could not meet his needs.
As a monarch, he only entertains himself by driving horses, shooting arrows and hunting, and the world's financial resources are in short supply.
The tired people had no rest, the hungry and cold people had no food and clothing, the innocent people were killed, and the tortured people had nowhere to file their grievances and judge their grievances, so that everyone resented him and every family hated him. As a result, Qin's world fell apart.
When Qin Shihuang was alive, the world had been corrupted, but he did not know it.
Qin Shihuang inspected the east and reached Kuaiji and Langye. He carved stones to describe his achievements, thinking that he could govern the world better than Yao and Shun. He weighed the weight of copper and iron to cast bells and yu, and sifted out fine and clean soil to build the Epang Palace. He thought that his descendants would forever own the world.
The ancient sage kings practiced Mi Dharma, and their descendants could rule for thirty or forty generations. Even Yao, Yu Shun, Xia Yu, Shang Tang, Zhou Wen, and Zhou Wu, who had extended their kindness and laid the foundation for future generations, could only rule for twenty or thirty generations.
Qin Shihuang said that after his death, he would be honored by Mi, which would sometimes lead to the duplication of the names of father and son. However, if he were named as the first, second, or even ten thousand generations, they would never be repeated. Therefore, he was called the First Emperor after his death, and his successor was the second emperor. He wanted to pass it on from one life to all generations.
Qin Shihuang considered his own merits and speculated on his future generations, thinking that he would rule forever from generation to generation. However, just a few months after his death, people from all over the world attacked the Qin Dynasty from all sides, causing the ancestral temple to become extinct.
Qin Shihuang was in danger of losing his country but he didn't know it. Why?
Because no one in the world dared to tell him.
Why didn't anyone dare to tell him?
Because he did not have the kindness to provide for the elderly, nor did he set up assistant ministers or remonstrators, he punished as he pleased, drove away those who criticized him, and killed those who remonstrated directly. Therefore, everyone catered to his taste, flattered and tolerated, and compared his virtues, he was said to be more merciful than Yao and Shun.
"The Book of Songs" says: It's not that wise people can't tell right from wrong and give advice. Why don't they give advice?
Because he was afraid of violating the monarch's taboos and being punished.
If you give advice and the monarch listens to it, you will state your opinions to the monarch in detail; if you give advice and the monarch does not listen, you will retreat and avoid it.
That's what it means. He also said: King Wen of Zhou was able to stabilize the world because he had many scholars.
The world has never been without scholars, but why is it only said that King Wen stabilized the world with many scholars? King Wen likes to be benevolent, so he can promote benevolent government; he can respect the scholars by getting native people, so the scholars can serve him, and he can use the scholars with propriety and justice.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故古之贤君于其臣也，尊其爵禄而亲之；疾则临视之亡数，死则往吊哭之，临其小敛大敛，已棺涂而后为之服锡衰麻绖，而三临其丧；未敛不饮酒食肉，未葬不举乐，当宗庙之祭而死，为之废乐。故古之君人者于其臣也，可谓尽礼矣；服法服，端容貌，正颜色。然后见之。
故臣下莫敢不竭力尽死以报其上，功德立于后世，而令闻不忘也。
今陛下念思祖考，术追厥功，图所以昭光洪业休德，使天下举贤良方正之士，天下皆焉，曰将兴尧、舜之道，三王之功矣。
天下之士莫不精白以承休德。
今方正之士皆在朝廷矣，又选其贤者使为常侍诸吏，与之驰驱射猎，一日再三出。
臣恐朝廷之解驰，百官之堕于事也，诸侯闻之，又必怠于政矣。
陛下即位，亲自勉以厚天下，损食膳，不听乐，减外徭卫卒，止岁贡；省厩马以赋县传，去诸苑以赋农夫，出帛十万余匹以振贫民；礼高年，九十者一子不事，八十者二算不事；赐天下男子爵，大臣皆至公卿；发御府金赐大臣宗族，亡不被泽者；赦罪人，怜其亡发，赐之巾，怜其衣赭书其背，父子兄弟相见也，而赐之衣。
平狱缓刑，天下莫不说喜。
是以元年膏雨降，五谷登，此天之所以相陛下也。
刑轻于它时而犯法者寡，衣食多于前年而盗贼少，此天下之所以顺陛下也。
臣闻山东吏布诏令，民虽老赢瘙疾，扶杖而往听之，愿少须臾毋死，思见德化之成也。
今功业方就，名闻方昭，四方乡风，今从豪俊之臣，方正之士，直与之日日猎射，击兔伐狐，以伤大业，绝天下之望，臣窃悼之。
诗曰： 靡不有初，鲜克有终。
臣不胜大愿，愿少衰射猎，以夏岁二月，定明堂，造太学，修先王之道。
风行俗成，万世之基定，然后唯陛下所幸耳。
translation: 
Therefore, if you don’t have love and respect for the scholars, you can’t make them loyal; if you can’t be loyal, you can’t do your best; if you can’t do your best, you can’t achieve results. Therefore, a wise monarch treats his ministers with high titles and generous salaries. The monarch should wear linen and mourn for him, and attend the funeral three times in person; before the deceased was buried, the monarch would not drink alcohol or eat meat; before the deceased was buried, the monarch would not play music or entertainment; the minister happened to die during the ancestral temple sacrifice, so he should be spared the ancestral temple sacrifice.
Therefore, I dare not fail to serve the monarch with all my heart, so that my merits will be established in future generations and my reputation will be spread forever.
Now, Your Majesty, you miss your ancestors and recall their merits in order to show their illustrious achievements and beautiful character to the world. He ordered the world to recommend virtuous and upright divination, and the officials and people of the world rejoiced, saying that the emperor was going to implement the principles of Yao and Shun and create the achievements of the Three Kings.
There is no one in the world who does not work hard to cultivate his own moral character in order to receive the emperor's kindness.
Now the upright men have been selected into the imperial court, and the better ones are selected to serve as regular servants and officials, and they ride with them, shoot and hunt, and go out two or three times a day.
I am afraid that from now on, the government will be lax, the officials will be slack, and the princes will be lazy to perform their duties after hearing the news.
Since your Majesty came to the throne, you have encouraged yourself to be kind to the world, reduced food expenses, refused to listen to extravagant music, reduced the number of soldiers guarding the border and guarding the palace, stopped the county and state's annual contribution of gifts to the court; The number of horses in the palace stables was high, and the excess horses were given to the inns in various places. Many gardens were abolished and distributed to farmers for farming. More than 100,000 pieces of silk were given to the poor; they paid tribute to the elderly, those over ninety years old, One son is exempted from service, and two people in the family who are over eighty years old are exempted from taxes; all men in the world are rewarded with titles, and all ministers are promoted to public ministers; ministers and the emperor's clan are rewarded with gold from the royal palace, and all are favored by the emperor; sinners are pardoned, pity them for having no hair, and given them turbans, pity them for wearing ocher prison uniforms with writing on their backs, father, son, and brothers are embarrassed when they meet, so they are given clothes.
Everyone in the world will be happy if unjust prison sentences are redressed and punishments are reduced.
Therefore, in the first year of the year, there will be happy rains and abundant harvests. This is God’s way of helping you.
When the punishment is light, but the number of people who break the law is small, there is more food and clothing than in previous years, but there are fewer thieves. This is the reason why people in the world obey you.
I heard that when officials in Shandong issued edicts, the people, even the old, weak, sick and disabled, went to listen on crutches, hoping to live longer and see the arrival of a peaceful and prosperous age when virtue would influence people.
Now that my achievements have been achieved, my reputation for virtuous government has been known to the world, and I have won the admiration of all directions, but I lead virtuous ministers and upright people, and hunt and shoot arrows with them every day, chasing and chasing foxes, but my achievements have been greatly damaged, and everyone in the world has been disappointed. I am secretly sad about this.
"The Book of Songs" says: People are all close to the good path at the beginning, but few can persist to the end.
My greatest wish is that you will control your hunting activities, announce government decrees in the Mingtang in the second month of the lunar calendar, visit the students at the Imperial College, and practice the way of the ancestors.
The wind of benevolence and righteousness has been formed, and the foundation of eternity has been laid, and then you can leisurely enjoy yourself.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
古者大臣不媟，故君子不常见其齐严之色、肃敬之容。
大臣不得与宴游，方正修洁之士不得从射猎，使皆务其方以高其节，则群臣莫敢不正身修行，尽心以称大礼。
如此，则陛下之道尊敬，功业施于四海，垂于万世子孙矣。
诚不如此，则行日坏而荣日灭矣。
夫士修之于家，而坏之于天子之廷，臣窃愍之。
陛下与众臣宴游，与大臣方正朝廷论议。
夫游不失乐，朝不失礼，议不失计，轨事之大者也。
其后，文帝除铸钱令，山复上书谏，以为变先帝法，非是。
又讼淮南王无大罪，宜急令反国。
又言柴唐子为不善，足以戒。
章下诘责，对以为： 钱者，亡用器也，而可以易富贵。
富贵者，人主之操柄也，令民为之，是与人主共操柄，不可长也。
其言多激切，善指事意，然终不加罚，所以广谏争之路也。
其后复禁铸钱云。邹阳，齐人也。
汉兴，诸侯王皆自治民聘贤。
吴王濞招致四方游士，阳与吴严忌、枚乘等俱仕吴，皆以文辩著名。
久之，吴王以太子事怨望，称疾不朝，阴有邪谋，阳奏书谏。
为其事尚隐，恶指斥言，故先引秦为谕，因道胡、越、齐、赵、淮南之难，然后乃致其意。
其辞曰：
臣闻秦倚曲台之官，悬衡天下，画地而不犯，兵加胡、越；至其晚节末路，张耳、陈胜连从兵之据，以叩函谷，咸阳遂危。
何则？
列郡不相亲，万室不相救也。
translation: 
In ancient times, ministers were courteous and unobtrusive, so the monarch did not always appear very serious and intimidating.
Ministers cannot have fun with the monarch, and upright and honest people cannot go hunting with the monarch. Instead, they should devote themselves to their own duties and cultivate noble moral integrity. In this way, the ministers will not dare not correct their conduct, strengthen their self-cultivation, and perform solemn etiquette with all their heart.
In this way, your monarchy will be respected, your achievements will be promoted throughout the world, and passed down to future generations.
If you don't do this, your character and honor will be damaged day by day.
I secretly feel pity that the moral character cultivated by the wise men at home was destroyed in the emperor's court.
Your Majesty, you can have fun with the ministers, and discuss state affairs with the ministers and founders in the court.
The most important principles are to patrol without being disappointed, to go to court without being disrespectful, and to discuss politics without failing in policy.
Later, Emperor Wen abolished the law prohibiting private coinage, and Mai Shanyi wrote a letter to remonstrate, believing that it was wrong to change the former emperor's law.
He also appealed to the King of Huainan, believing that he was not guilty of any serious crime and that he should be returned to his own kingdom immediately instead of being exiled.
He also said that the prince of Chaiwu, the Marquis of Jipu, had evil intentions and deserved to be warned.
Emperor Wen asked the relevant departments to question Maishan about the content of the petition. When answering the question, Maishan believed that: although money is a useless thing, it can be used to exchange for wealth.
Wealth and honor are the emperor's handle for governing the world. Allowing the people to mint their own money means letting the people and the emperor hold this handle together, and it will be difficult to maintain it for a long time.
Maishan's remonstrance was urgent and good at getting to the point of the matter, but Emperor Wen never punished him in order to open up the road to remonstration.
Later, private coinage was banned again. Zou Yang, a native of Qi.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the princes and kings personally governed the people and recruited talents.
King Wu Liu Bi recruited lobbyists from all over the country. Zou Yang, Yan Ji and Mei Cheng of Wu State all served as officials in Wu State. All three of them were famous for their ability to write articles and be good at debating.
After a long period of time, the King of Wu was dissatisfied because his prince was playing chess with Liu Qi, the prince of Emperor Wen at that time. The two had a dispute and the prince of Wu was beaten to death by Liu Qi. So he was dissatisfied and claimed that he was ill and could not go to court to see the emperor. He secretly had a conspiracy to rebel. Zou Yang wrote a letter to advise him.
Because the rebellion was not yet clear and could not be directly accused, I first used Qin as a metaphor, and then transferred to the speculation that Hu, Yue, Qi, Fang, Huainan, etc. were in trouble with the Han court, and then expressed my true intention.
The remonstrance is written like this:
I heard that the First Emperor of Qin was sitting in the Qutai Palace, imposing laws on the world, and drawing the boundaries of the land, but no one dared to offend, and the military power was imposed on Hu Yue; and when the Qin Dynasty declined, Zhang Er and Chen Sheng united with various soldiers and horses to attack Hangu Pass, thereby endangering Xianyang City.
Why is this happening?
Because the counties did not attach themselves to the Qin Dynasty, the people did not help the Qin Dynasty.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
今胡数涉北河之外，上覆飞鸟，下不见伏菟，斗城不休，救兵不止，死者相随，辇车相属，转粟流输，千里不绝。
何则？
强赵责于河间，六齐望于惠后，城阳顾于卢博，三淮南之心思坟墓。大王不忧，臣恐救兵之不专，胡马遂进窥于邯郸，越水长沙，还舟青阳。
虽使梁并淮阳之兵，下淮东，越广陵，以遏越人之粮，汉亦折西河而下，北守漳水，以辅大国，胡亦益进，越亦益深。此臣之所以大王患也。
臣闻交龙襄首奋翼，则浮云出流，雾雨咸集。
圣王底节修德，则游谈之士归义思名。
今臣尽智毕议，易精极虑，则无国不可奸；饰固陋之心，则何王之门不可曳长裾乎？
然臣所以历数王之朝，背淮千里而自致者，非恶臣国而乐吴民也，窃高下风之行，尤说大王之义。
故愿大王之无忽，察听其志。
臣闻鸷鸟累百，不如一鹗。
夫全赵之时，武力鼎士衤玄服丛台之下者一旦成市，而不能止幽王之湛患。
淮南连山东之侠，死士盈朝，不能还厉王之西也。
然而计议不得，虽诸、贲不能安其位，亦明矣。
故愿大王审画而已。
始孝文皇帝据关入立，寒心销志，不明求衣。
自立天子之后，使东牟朱虚东褒义父之后，深割婴儿王之。壤子王梁、代，益以淮阳。
translation: 
Now the Hu people have stepped outside Beihe many times, shooting birds from above, capturing and ambushes from below, and constantly attacking the border towns of the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty also constantly sent reinforcements to fight back, so that the dead followed, chariots carrying weapons were connected to each other, and vehicles carrying grain and grass were in an endless stream.
Why is this happening?
Because the powerful Zhao State wanted to seize Hejian from the Han Dynasty, the six kingdoms of Qi pursued grievances against Emperor Hui and Empress Lu. Liu Xi, the king of Chengyang, and Liu Xingju, the king of the north, were killed and resented the Han emperor. The Three Kingdoms of Huainan moved to the border area in memory of his father Liu Chang. On the way He died, looking for an opportunity to retaliate against the Han Dynasty. Don't worry, my king. I'm afraid that all countries have private grievances to avenge and are unwilling to concentrate on saving the Han Dynasty. The Hu tribe marched to spy on Handan, and the Yue tribe marched to Changsha by water and gathered warships in Qingyang.
Even if Liang Guo was allowed to jointly lead Huaiyang's army, march to Huaidong, cross Guangling, and cut off the Yue people's food routes, and the Han Dynasty also cut off the lower Xihe River and garrisoned Zhangshui in the north to assist in crossing the country, the Hu army continued to advance, and the Yue army continued to penetrate deeper. This is what worries you, your great king.
I heard that when a dragon raises its head and spreads its wings, it will float with the clouds, and the fog and rain will gather around it.
If the sage king sharpens his integrity and cultivates his character, then the people who talk about it will focus on benevolence and righteousness, and think about achieving fame.
Now that I have put forth my suggestions with all my heart, and used all my wisdom and counsel, there will be no country that cannot seek fame; if I repair my evil heart, then which king's disciples will not be able to obtain official positions?
However, the reason why I passed through the royal courts of several countries and came to the shore of Huaihe River from thousands of miles away to join your sect is not because I hate my country and like the people of Wu, but because I am listening below, secretly respecting and appreciating your deeds.
So I hope you don’t ignore it and listen carefully to my wishes.
I heard that a hundred geese all together are no match for one eagle.
When the kingdom of Tread was not divided, people with courage and ability to lift the cauldron, dressed in fine attire, gathered under the Congtai. It was like a market in an instant, but it could not prevent King Tread You from being imprisoned and killed by Queen Lu You.
The king of Huainan made friends with knights from Shandong, and the palace was filled with people who died in service. However, he was unable to cause Huainan King Li to be deposed and relocated, and died in Yong Dynasty.
It is obvious that even warriors like Zhuan Zhu and Meng Ben cannot rest in their positions if the plan is out of time.
Therefore, I hope that your Majesty will consider this matter carefully.
When Emperor Xiaowen entered Hangu Pass and ascended the throne as emperor, he thought the world was in trouble, so he was so worried that he got up before dawn.
After he was established as the emperor, he sent Shu Mouhou and Zhu Xuhou eastward to praise the King of Qi for raising an army to attack the Lu family. Prince Liu Wu and others, who were still ignorant children, set aside fiefdoms and made them kings.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
卒仆济北，囚弟于雍者，岂非象新垣平等哉！
今天子新据先帝之遗业，左规山东，右制关中，变权易势，大臣难知。
大王弗察，臣恐周鼎复起于汉，新垣过计于朝，则我吴遗嗣，不可期于世矣。
高皇帝烧栈道，水章邯，兵不留行，收弊民之倦，东驰函谷，西楚大破。
水攻则章邯以亡其城，陆击则荆王以失其地，此皆国家之不几者也。
愿大王孰察之。
吴王不内其言。
是时，景帝少弟梁孝王贵盛，亦待士。于是邹阳、枚乘、严忌知吴不可说，皆去之梁，从孝王游。
阳为人有智略，忼慨不苟合，介于羊胜、公孙诡之间。
胜等疾阳，恶之孝王。
孝王怒，下阳吏，将杀之。
阳客游以谗见禽，恐死而负累，乃从狱中上书曰：
臣闻忠无不报，信不见疑，臣常以为然，徒虚语耳。
昔荆轲慕燕丹之义，白虹贯日，太子畏之；卫先生为秦画长平之事，太白食昂，昭王疑之。
夫精变天地而信不谕两主，岂不哀哉！
今臣尽忠竭诚，毕议愿知，左右不明，卒从吏讯，为世所疑。
是使荆轲、卫先生复起，而燕、秦不寤也。
愿大王孰察之。
昔玉人献宝，楚王诛之；李斯竭忠，胡亥极刑。
是以箕子阳狂，接舆避世，恐遭此患也。
愿大王察玉人、李斯之意，而后楚王、胡亥之听，毋使臣为箕子、接舆所笑。
臣闻比干剖心，子胥鸱夷，臣始不信，乃今知之。
愿大王孰察，少加怜焉！
translation: 
His beloved son Liu Yi was granted the title of King of Liang, Liu Wu was granted the title of acting king, and Huaiyang was merged into the Liang Kingdom.
As a result, the King of Jibei was executed for treason, and his younger brother Liu Chang, King of Huainan, was exiled because of his guilt and died in Yong County. Isn't this because there were treacherous ministers like Xinyuan Ping in the two countries who persuaded the king to rebel? The current emperor has just inherited the late emperor's mission. He plans Shandong on the left and controls Guanzhong on the right. He has changed his plans and the ministers are unpredictable.
Your Majesty, if you do not investigate, I am afraid that the people who are planning for Wu will make wrong suggestions just like Xinyuan Ping lied about getting Zhou Ding in the Han court. If so, our country of Wu will be destroyed, the family will be destroyed, and the descendants will be extinct.
Emperor Gao burned down the plank road and poured water into Zhanghan. He destroyed everything he attacked. He gathered the exhausted people without stopping and rushed eastward out of Hangu Pass, defeating the army of Xiang Yu, the overlord of Western Chu.
Attack by water, Zhang Han lost the city, attack on land, Xiang Yu lost the territory, the Han Dynasty was stable, and the princes could not have any evil intentions.
I hope your Majesty will give it more thought.
The king of Wu did not listen to him.
At this time, King Liang Xiao, the younger brother of Emperor Jing, gained power and recruited scholars. So Zou Yang, Meicheng, and Yan Ji all knew that King Wu could not accept the advice, so they left King Wu and went to Liang to have friends with King Liang.
Zou Yang is very strategic and has a strong temperament. He is uncompromising and independent. He is independent between Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui.
Yang Sheng and others hated him and slandered him in front of King Liang.
King Liang was very angry and threw Zou Yang into prison, preparing to kill him.
Zou Yang was traveling in a foreign country and was slandered and arrested. He was afraid that he would leave a bad reputation after his death and be reviled by others, so he wrote to the King of Liang from prison:
I heard that loyalty is always rewarded, and honest people will not be suspected. I have always thought this is the case, but now it seems that it is just empty words.
In the past, Jing Ke admired the faith of Prince Dan of Yan, and his sincerity moved heaven, so that a white rainbow passed through the sun, but Prince Dan was afraid that Jing Ke would not assassinate the King of Qin; Mr. Wei planned the strategy of the Changping Battle for Qin, and the Taibai Star entered the Pleiades, covering up the brilliance of the Pleiades stars, but King Zhao of Qin expressed doubts.
The sincere heart caused the heaven and earth to mutate, but could not make Prince Dan and King Qin Zhao believe in them. Isn't this very sad!
Now I am sincerely stating my plan, hoping that you will know it, but your ministers are unclear, and finally I was interrogated by the judge and became suspicious of the world.
The creation is like Mr. Jing Ke and Mr. Wei being reborn, but Prince Dan and King Qin Zhao are still unaware.
I hope your Majesty will take a closer look.
In the past, Bian He offered jade to the King of Chu, but the King of Chu did not know the goods and punished Bian He instead. Li Si was loyal to Qin, but was severely tortured by Hu Hai.
Therefore, Jizi pretended to be crazy and took Yu to escape from the world because he was afraid of suffering such a disaster.
I hope that your Majesty, you will examine the sincerity of Bian He and Li Si, and do not listen to wrong opinions like King Chu and Hu Hai, and do not let me be laughed at by Ji Zi and Jie Yu.
I heard that Bigan was betrayed for his loyalty, and Wu Zixu was killed for his direct remonstrance. Put it into the horse leather, I didn't believe it at first, but now I understand.
I hope your Majesty will consider this in detail and show some sympathy.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
语曰： 有白头如新，倾盖如故。
何则？知与不知也。
故樊於期逃秦之燕，借荆轲首以奉丹事；王奢去齐之魏，临城自刭以却齐而存魏。
夫王奢、樊於期非新于齐、秦而故于燕、魏也，所以去二国死两君者，行合于志，慕义无穷也。
是以苏秦不信于天下，为燕尾生；自圭战亡六城，为魏取中山。
何则？
诚有以相知也。
苏秦相燕，人恶之燕王，燕王按剑而怒，食以駃騠；白圭显于中山，人恶之于魏文侯，文侯赐以夜光之璧。
何则？
两主二臣，剖心析肝相信，岂移于浮辞哉！
故女无美恶，入官见妒；士无贤不肖，入朝见嫉。
昔司马喜膑脚于宋，卒相中山；范睢拉胁折齿于魏，卒为应侯。
此二人者，皆信必然之画，捐朋党之私，挟孤独之交，故不能自免于嫉妒之人也。
是以申徒狄蹈雍之河，徐衍负石入海。
不容于世，义不苟取比周于朝以移主上之心。
故百里奚乞食于道路，缪公委之以政；甯戚饭牛车下，桓公任之以国。
此二人者，岂素宦于朝，借誉于左右，然后二主用之哉？
感于心，合于行，坚如胶■，昆弟不能离，岂惑于众口哉？
故偏听生奸，独任成乱。
昔鲁听季孙之说逐孔子，宋任子冉之计囚墨翟。
夫以孔、墨之辩，不能自免于谗谀，而二国以危。
translation: 
As the saying goes: Some people are strangers even after getting along with them for a long time, while some people feel like old friends as soon as they stop and talk.
Why this happens mainly depends on whether you understand the sincerity of the other party.
So Fan Yuqi fled from Qin to Yan, gave his head to Jing Ke, and helped Prince Dan complete the assassination of the King of Qin. Wang She went from Qi to Wei and committed suicide on the city wall in order to make Qi retreat and preserve Wei.
Wang She and Fan Yuqi did not make new acquaintances with Qi and Qin but had old friendships with Yan and Wei, so they left Qi and Qin to work for the monarchs of Yan and Wei, but because their actions and interests were consistent, and they infinitely admired the loyalty of the two monarchs.
Therefore, Su Qin could not win the trust of the world, but he was loyal to the Yan State; Bai Gui led the army in the battle for the Zhongshan State and lost six cities, but he conquered the Zhongshan State for the Wei State.
Why is this happening?
Because Su Qin and King Yan, Bai Gui and King Wei can indeed know each other.
When Su Qin was the Prime Minister of the Yan State, someone spoke ill of him in front of the King of Yan. The King of Yan, holding his sword in hand, became angry at those who slandered Su Qin, and rewarded Su Qin with rare treasures. Bai Gui was distinguished by winning the Zhongshan Kingdom, but someone slandered him in front of the Marquis of Wei Wen, and the Marquis of Wei Wen instead rewarded him with a luminous jade.
Why is this happening?
Because the two monarchs and the two ministers trust each other and treat each other with sincerity, how can they change their minds because of empty talk?
Therefore, regardless of whether a woman is beautiful or ugly, if she is selected into the palace, she will be envied by others; whether a scholar is wise or foolish, if she enters the court, she will be hated by others.
In the past, Sima happy was punished by having his feet cut off in the Song Dynasty, but later he became the prime minister of the Zhongshan Kingdom; Fan Sui was wounded in the side and had his teeth knocked out in the Wei Kingdom, but was finally made a Marquis of Ying in the Qin Kingdom.
Both of these men were confident that their strategy would be implemented. They did not ask for help from cronies, and went on the straight path alone. Therefore, they were not immune to the slander of jealous people.
So Shentu Di threw himself into the Yongzhou River, and Xu Yan jumped into the sea carrying a stone on his back.
Not tolerated by the world, with a heart of faith, unwilling to live an ignoble existence, he formed cliques in the court for personal gain to confuse the monarch.
So Baili Xi was begging on the road, but Duke Mu of Qin entrusted him with the affairs of the country; Ning Qi was feeding cattle under the cart, but Duke Huan of Qi used him to govern the country.
Could it be that these two people usually served in the court and were praised by the people around them, and then the two monarchs reused them?
They are in tune with each other and are on the same page, so they can trust each other and have a very close relationship.
Brothers are so close, can they be deceived by everyone's evil words?
Therefore, listening to one person's words will lead to fraud, and trusting only one person will lead to disaster. In the past, the state of Lu listened to Ji Sun's advice and expelled Confucius, and the state of Song believed in Zi Ran's strategy and imprisoned Mo Zhai.
The talents of Zizi and Mo Zhai were not immune to slander. Lu and Song were also in danger because they listened to slander. Why is this?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
何则？众口铄金，积毁销骨也。
秦用戎人由余而伯中国，齐用越人子臧而强威、宣。
此二国岂系于俗，牵于世，系奇偏之浮辞哉？
公听并观，垂明当世。
故意合则胡、越为兄弟，由余、子臧是矣；不合则骨肉为仇敌，朱、象、管、蔡是矣。
今人主诚能用齐、秦之明，后宋、鲁之听，则五伯不足侔，而三王易为也。
是以圣王觉寤，捐子之之心，而不说田常之贤，封比干之后，修孕妇之墓，故功业覆于天下。
何则？欲善亡厌也。
夫晋文亲其仇，强伯诸侯；齐桓用其仇，而一匡天下。
何则？
慈仁殷勤，诚加于心，不可以虚辞借也。
至夫秦用商鞅之法，东弱韩、魏，立强天下，卒车裂之。
越用大夫种之谋，禽劲吴而伯中国，逆诛其身。
是以孙叔敖三去相而不悔，於陵子仲辞三公为人灌园。
今人主诚能去骄傲之心，怀可报之意，披心腹，见情素，堕肝胆，施德厚，终与之穷达，无爱于士，则桀之犬可使吠尧，跖之客可使刺由，何况因万乘之权，假圣王之资乎！
然则荆轲湛七族，要离燔妻子，岂足为大王道哉！
臣闻明月之珠，夜光之璧，以暗投人于道，众莫不按剑相眄者。
何则？无因而至前也。
蟠木根柢，轮囷离奇，而为万乘器者，以左右先为之容也。
故无因而至前，虽出随珠和璧，祗怨结而不见德；有人先游，则枯木朽株，树功而不忘。
translation: 
The evil words of many people can melt gold and destroy bones.
The state of Qin reused Yu Yu from the Rong clan and dominated the world. The state of Qi reused Yu Zang from the Zhao state and made the country strong during the reign of King Wei and King Xuan.
Are these two countries being constrained by the secular world and confused by weird and empty talk?
Listen to opinions from all sides fairly and treat everyone equally, so that sage wisdom can shine in the world.
Therefore, if the minds are in agreement, even people from Hu and Yue are brothers, as is the case with Youyu and Zizang; if the minds are not in agreement, even flesh and blood relatives will become enemies, as is the case with Danzhu, Xiang, Uncle Guan, and Uncle Cai.
If the current monarch can really use the wisdom of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Mu of Qin and not listen to wrong opinions like those of Song and Lu, then he will surpass the five hegemons and compete with the three kings.
Therefore, once the sage king wakes up, he will give up his love for his son and will not think that Tian Chang is a wise man and like him. Instead, he will instigate Bigan's descendants to build the tomb of the pregnant woman killed by King Zhou, thus making great contributions to the world. Why?
Because the sage king pursued the cause of benevolence and was never satisfied.
Duke Wen of Jin got close to his enemy Bo Qian and dominated the princes; Duke Huan of Qi appointed his enemy Guan Zhong to bring the princes of the world back on track.
Why is this happening?
Because the two monarchs were kind and kind, they treated their enemies with sincerity and were not fooled by empty words.
As for the Qin State, it appointed Shang Yang to reform and attack eastward, weakening the two countries Han and Wei, making the Qin State strong and prosperous and dominating the world. However, Shang Yang later suffered a chariot attack.
The State of Yue used the strategy of the official Wen Zhong to devour the powerful State of Wu and dominate the Central Plains, but Wen Zhong was eventually killed.
Therefore, Sun Shuao resigned from the position of prime minister three times without regret, and Yu Lingzizhong preferred to resign from the position of Sangong to water vegetable gardens for others.
Now, if the monarch truly gives up his pride, treats the virtuous and corporal officers so that they are willing to reciprocate his courtesy, be sincere, extend generous favors, share the joys and sorrows with the scholars, and show no grudges, then he will be able to let Xia Jie's dogs bark at Yao and the thieving Zhi's guests to assassinate Xu You, not to mention the power and virtue of a monarch with thousands of chariots.
As for Jing Ke who assassinated the King of Qin for Crown Prince Dan and did not hesitate to unite his relatives, and Li who assassinated Qing Ji for King He Yan of Wu and did not hesitate to let the King of Wu burn his wife and children first, how can it be worth mentioning to you?
I heard that if you throw the Pearl of the Moon and the Jade of Luminous Light from the dark to pedestrians on the road, all the pedestrians will look at you with a sharp sword in hand. Why?
Because these things are thrown in front of you for no reason.
The crooked trees or roots, with their twists and turns and strange shapes, became the real tools of the monarch because someone carved and decorated them first.
Therefore, if it comes to you for no reason, even if it is a pearl of Suihou or a jade of He family, it will only cause resentment, but will not make people grateful; if someone comes to introduce it, even if it is a withered tree or a rotten pearl, it will make people remember their merits.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今夫天下布衣穷居之士，身在贫羸，虽蒙尧、舜之术、挟伊、管之辩，怀龙逢、比干之意，而素无根柢之容，虽竭精神，欲开忠于当世之君，则人主必龚按剑相眄之迹矣。
是使布衣之士不得为枯木朽株之资也。
是以圣王制世御俗，独化于陶钧之上，而不牵乎卑辞之语，不夺乎从多之口。故秦皇帝任中庶子蒙嘉之言，以信荆轲，而匕首窃发；周文王猎泾渭，载吕尚归，以王天下。
秦信左右而亡，周用乌集而王。
何则？以其能越挛拘之语，驰域外之议，独观乎昭旷之道也。
今人主沉诌谀之辞，牵帷廧之制，使不羁之士与牛骥同皂，此鲍焦所以愤于世也。
臣闻盛饰入朝者不以私污义，底厉名号者不以利伤行。
故里名胜母，曾子不入；邑号朝歌，墨子回车。
今欲使天下寥廓之士笼于威重之权，胁于位势之贵，回面污行，以事谄谀之人，而求亲近于左右，则士有伏死堀穴岩薮之中耳，安有尽忠信而趋阙下者哉！
书奏孝王，孝王立出之，卒为上客。
初，胜、诡欲使王求为汉嗣，王又尝上书，愿赐容车之地径至长乐宫，自使梁国士众筑作甬道朝太后。
爰盎等皆建以为不可。天子不许。
梁王怒，令人刺杀盎。
上疑梁杀之，使者冠盖相望责梁王。
梁王始与胜、诡有谋，阳争以为不可，故见谗。
枚先生、严夫子皆不敢谏。
及梁事败，胜、诡死，孝王恐诛，乃思阳言，深辞谢之，赍以千金，令求方略解罪于上者，阳素知齐人王先生，年八十余，多奇计，即往见，语以其事。
translation: 
Nowadays, the scholars in the world who wear commoners and live in dilapidated houses are poor and impoverished. Even if they have the strategy of governing the country like Yao and Shun, the talent of Yi Yin and Guan Zhong, and the loyalty of Guan Longfeng and Bigan, no one will introduce them like they groom the roots of trees and present them to the monarch. Although they want to be loyal to the current monarch wholeheartedly, the current monarch will definitely take the path of holding a sharp sword and looking crossly.
This makes it impossible for poor scholars to catch up with withered trees and decayed pearls.
Therefore, the sage king controls the world like a potter turning the wheel, and is not restrained by vulgar words or slander. Therefore, the first emperor of Qin listened to the words of his concubine Meng Jia and trusted Jing Ke, but was almost assassinated. King Wen of Zhou met Lu Shang while hunting between Jingwei and Wei, and returned to the court with him in the car, and finally achieved his royal career.
Qin Xin relied on his close ministers and subjugated the country, while Zhou gathered a mob and became king. Why was this so?
Because King Wen of Zhou was able to get rid of the burden of vulgar and restrained words and widely adopt lofty opinions, he was able to obtain bright and far-reaching truths.
Today's monarchs tend to indulge in flattery and are restrained by the sycophants on the left and right, so that scholars who are far-sighted and unrestrained are juxtaposed with villains who are as stupid as cattle and horses. This is the reason for Bao Jiao's cynicism.
I heard that those who dress neatly and attend court will not tarnish justice with selfish motives; those who cultivate moral integrity will not harm their own conduct with selfish interests.
Therefore, the village was called Shengmu, which Zengzi could not enter; the city was called Chaoge, and Mozi drove to avoid it.
Now if you want to rely on your majestic power and noble position to gather and coerce the lofty-minded scholars in the world, so that they will turn to tarnish their own character and curry favor with the despicable villains in order to get close to the monarch and serve him around, then these scholars would rather hide in the mountains and forests and die in caves. Who would come to the door to be loyal?
Zou Yang's petition was handed over to King Liang Xiao, who immediately released Zou Yang and finally listed him as a first-class guest.
At first, Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui wanted Liang Wang to request to be the heir to the throne of the Han Dynasty. Liang Wang also wrote to the Han Dynasty emperor, hoping to give him a place to accommodate his carriage so that he could directly enter the Changle Palace. He wanted to have the people of Liang build a corridor so that he could meet the Queen Mother.
Yuan Ang and other ministers discussed it and thought it was not feasible, but the emperor did not approve it.
The king of Liang was furious and sent people to assassinate Yuan An.
The emperor suspected that Liang Guo had done it, so he kept sending envoys to question King Xiao of Liang, so that the envoys' vehicles followed each other and could see each other.
When King Liang, Yang and Gongsun Gui began to plan something, Zou Yang Jianjing thought it would not work, so he suffered slander.
Neither Mei Cheng nor Yan Ji dared to remonstrate.
When the affairs of the Liang Kingdom were exposed, Yang Sheng and Gongsun Gui were killed, and King Xiao of Liang was afraid of being executed. Only then did he think of Zou Yang's advice, apologize deeply to Zou Yang, and reward him with a thousand kilograms of gold, asking him to find a way to escape the emperor's punishment of Liang. When Zou Yang heard that Wang Sheng, a native of Qi, was over eighty years old and very resourceful, he went to see him and explain his intention.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
王先生曰： 难哉！
人主有私怨深怨，欲施必行之诛，诚难解也。
以太后之尊，骨肉之亲，犹不能止，况臣下乎？
昔秦始皇有伏怒于太后，群臣谏而死者以十数。
得茅焦为廓大义，始皇非能说其言也，乃自强从之耳。
茅焦亦廑脱死如毛氂耳，故事所以难者也。今子欲安之乎？ 阳曰： 邹、鲁守经学，齐、楚多辩知，韩、魏时有奇节，吾将历问之。 王先生曰： 子行矣。
还，过我而西。
邹阳行月余，莫能为谋，还，过王先生，曰： 臣将西矣，为如何？
王先生曰： 吾先日欲献愚计，以为众不可盖，窃自薄陋不敢道也。
若子行，必往见王长君，士无过此者矣。
邹阳发寤于心，曰： 敬诺。
辞去，不过梁，径至长安，因客见王长君。
长君者，王美人兄也，后封为盖侯。
邹阳留数日，乘间而请曰： 臣非为长君无使令于前，故来侍也；愚戆窃不自料，愿有谒也。
长君跪曰： 幸甚。
阳曰： 窃闻长君弟得幸后宫，天下无有，而长君行迹多不循道理者。
今爰盎事即穷竟，梁王恐诛。
如此，则太后怫郁泣血，无所发怒，切齿侧目于贵臣矣。
臣恐长君危于累卵，窃为足下忧之。 长君惧然曰： 将为之奈何？
阳曰： 长君诚能精为上言之，得毋竟梁事，长君必固自结于太后。
太后厚德长君，入于骨髓，而长君之弟幸于两宫，金城之固也。
又有存亡继绝之功，德布天下，名施无穷，愿长君深自计之。
昔者，舜之弟象日以杀舜为事，及舜立为天子，封之于有卑。
夫仁人之于兄弟，无臧怒，无宿怨，厚亲爱而已，是以后世称之。
translation: 
Mr. Wang said: It’s difficult!
The emperor is resentful and must be punished. It is really difficult to deal with it!
Since the Queen Mother is so noble and is closely related to the Emperor and Prince Liang, she cannot control the Emperor's decision, let alone me!
In the past, Qin Shihuang resented the Queen Mother, and more than ten people were killed after his officials remonstrated with her.
Fortunately, Mao Jiao explained his righteousness to Qin Shihuang. Qin Shihuang was not happy with what he said, but reluctantly followed his advice because of his righteousness. Mao Jiao also almost died, but fortunately escaped death.
So it's very difficult to do. Where are you going now? Zou Yang said: The people of Zou and Lu practice Confucian classics, the people of Qi and Chu are good at planning and eloquence, and there are people of extraordinary integrity in Han and Wei. I will go and ask for advice in turn. Mr. Wang said: You go ahead.
When you come back, please come to my place and then go west to Chang'an.
Zou Yang visited for more than a month, but no one could come up with a solution for him. So he came back and visited Mr. Wang again and said, "I want to go west to Chang'an. What should I do?"
Mr. Wang said: A few days ago, I wanted to show off my stupid tricks, but I felt that I couldn't keep up with others, so I was secretly belittling and didn't dare to say it out.
If you want to go west, you must go to see Wang Changjun. There is no wiser scholar than him.
Zou Yang understood it and said: I respectfully follow your instructions.
He said goodbye and left. Instead of going to Liang State, he went straight west to Chang'an and met Wang Changjun through the guidance of his disciples.
Wang Changjun was Wang Meiren's elder brother, and was later named Gaihou.
Zou Yang stayed at Wang Changjun's house for a few days, and when he was free, he asked Wang Changjun: "I am not here to serve you because you have no servants around you. I am ignorant and overconfident, and I want to express my sincere confession."
Wang Changjun knelt and said: "It's a great honor."
Zou Yang said: "I heard privately that your sister is very favored by the emperor in the palace. There is no one more favored than her in the world, but there are many indiscretions in your behavior."
Now the imperial court is trying its best to investigate the assassination of Yuan An, and the King of Liang may be killed for his crime.
If this is the case, the Queen Mother will be angry and sad, with no place to vent her anger, and will gnash her teeth and scowl at the noble ministers.
I'm afraid your situation is very dangerous, and I'm secretly worried about you. Wang Changjun said in panic: What should I do?
Zou Yang said: If you can cleverly persuade the emperor not to pursue Liang Guo's affairs to the end, you will definitely be able to form a good relationship with the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother is deeply grateful to you, your sister will be favored by the Emperor and the Queen Mother, and your noble status will be as stable as a golden city.
At the same time, you have saved the country and succeeded in unparalleled achievements. Your virtue will be spread to the sky and your reputation will be spread forever. I hope you will consider it carefully.
In the past, Shun's younger brother Xiang wanted to kill Shun every day. When Shun became emperor, he made Xiang Ce a prince in Youbei.
A benevolent man does not hide his anger towards his brother, and does not remember his past grudges. He only has a deep love for his brother, so he is praised by future generations.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
鲁公子庆父使仆人杀子般，狱有所归，季友不探其情而诛焉；庆父亲杀闵公，季子缓追免贼，《春秋》以为亲亲之道也。
鲁哀姜薨于夷，孔子曰 齐桓公法而不谲 ，以为过也。
以是说天子，侥幸梁事不奏。 长君曰： 诺。
乘间入而言之。
及韩安国亦见长公主，事果得不治。
初，吴王濞与七国谋反，及发，齐、济北两国城守不行。汉既破吴，齐王自杀，不得立嗣。
济北王亦欲自杀，幸全其妻子。
齐人公孙玃谓济北王曰： 臣请试为大王明说梁王，通意天子，说而不用。死未晚也。
公孙玃遂见梁王，曰： 夫济北之地，东接强齐，南牵吴、越，北胁燕、赵，此四分五裂之国，权不足以自守，劲不足以扞寇，又非有奇怪云以待难也，虽坠言于吴，非其正计也。
昔者郑祭仲许宋人立公子突以活其君，非义也，《春秋》记之，为其以生易死，以存易亡也。
乡使济北见情实，示不从之端，则吴必先历齐毕济北，招燕、赵而总之。
如此，则山东之从结而无隙矣。
今吴、楚之王练诸侯之兵，驱白徒之众，西与天子争衡，济北独底节坚守不下。
使吴失与而无助，跬步独进，瓦解土崩，破败而不救者，未必非济北之力也。
夫以区区之济北而与诸侯争强，是以羔犊之弱而扞虎狼之敌也。
translation: 
Qingfu, the prince of Lu, sent his servant Deng Hule to kill Ziban, but he was blamed on Deng Hule. Qingfu's brother Ji You did not investigate Qingfu's true nature and killed Deng Hule. Qing's father killed Lu Mingong with his own hands, but Ji You deliberately chased him slowly and let him go, so that he would not be blamed for killing the king. "Spring and Autumn" believes that this is the "way of kissing".
Ai Jiang, the wife of Duke Zhuang of Lu, behaved badly and was executed by Duke Huan of Qi in Yi. Confucius said: Duke Huan of Qi acted in accordance with the law and could not make changes in order to avoid punishment for his relatives. He thought this was Duke Huan's fault.
Using this principle to persuade the emperor may help Liang Guo's affairs to avoid being reported. Wang Changjun said: Obey!
So he looked for an opportunity to enter the palace to persuade the emperor.
In addition, Han Anguo also met with the eldest princess and interceded on behalf of King Liang, so the matter was finally not investigated and punished.
At the beginning, King Wu Liu Bi instigated a rebellion among the seven kingdoms. When the rebellion was launched, Qi and Jibei both held fast to the city and did not join the rebellion. After the Han Dynasty defeated Wu, King Qi was suspected of committing suicide and could no longer appoint an heir.
The King of Jibei was implicated in the rebellion and wanted to commit suicide in order to have a chance to save his wife and children.
Gongsun Huo of Qi said to the King of Jibei: Please let me try to explain the situation to the King of Liang for you, and ask him to tell the Emperor to intercede for you. If the Emperor does not listen to him, it will not be too late for you to commit suicide.
Gongsun Huo then went to see the King of Liang and said to him: The Kingdom of Jibei is bordered by Qi, Wu and Yue to the south, and is threatened by Yan and Zhao to the north. It is surrounded by enemies on all sides. It is too weak to defend itself, too weak to resist border invaders, and there are no talents or clever plans to defend against difficulties. Although he once made a mistake and agreed to join the Wu Kingdom, it was not actually the King of Jibei's original intention.
In the past, in order to save the life of the king of Zheng, Ji Zhong of Zheng promised to the Song Dynasty to make his son Tu the king. Although it was unethical to do so, "Spring and Autumn" recorded this incident as a sign of praise, because Ji Zhong saved the life of the king of Zheng. Life is easy to die, and survival is easy to perish.
If the King of Jibei had shown his true position and was determined not to join forces with the State of Wu, then the State of Wu would have bypassed the State of Qi and collected all the land in Jibei, and recruited the troops of Yan and Zhao to merge and rule.
In this way, the rebel princes in Shandong will gather together and become one, making it difficult for the court to find opportunities to defeat them one by one.
At that time, the princes of Wu, Chu and other princes selected soldiers from various countries and drove untrained soldiers westward to compete with the emperor. Only the king of Jibei inspired moral integrity and stood firm in the city without surrendering.
The king of Wu lost his alliance, became isolated and helpless, and found it difficult to advance quickly. Finally, he collapsed and suffered a disastrous defeat, with no one to rescue him. This may not be the credit of the king of Jibei.
Using the small Jibei Kingdom to fight against the princes is like asking a weak lamb to resist the attack of tigers and wolves.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
守职不桡，可谓诚一矣。
功义如此，尚见疑于上，胁肩低首，累足抚衿，使有自悔不前之心，非社稷之利也。
臣恐藩臣守职者疑之。
臣窃料之，能历西山，径长乐，抵未央，攘袂而正议者，独大王耳。
上有全亡之功，下有安百姓之名，德沦于骨髓，恩加于无穷，愿大王留意详惟之。
孝王大说，使人驰以闻。
济北王得不坐，徙封于淄川。
枚乘字叔，淮阳人也，为吴王濞郎中。
吴王之初怨望谋为逆也，乘奏书谏曰：
臣闻得全者全昌，失全者全亡。
舜无立锥之地，以有天下；禹无十户之聚，以王诸侯。
汤、武之士不过百里，上不绝三光之明，下不伤百姓之心者，有王术也。
故父子之道，天性也；忠臣不避重诛以直谏，则事无遗策，功流万世。
臣乘愿披心腹而效愚忠，唯大王少加意念恻怛之心于臣乘言。
夫以一缕之任系千钧之重，上县无极之高，下垂不测之渊，虽甚愚之人犹知哀其将绝也。
马方骇鼓而惊之，系方绝又重镇之；系绝于天下不可复结，队入深渊难以复出。
其出不出，间不容发。
能听忠臣之言，百举必脱。
必若所欲为，危于累卵，难于上天；变所欲为，易于反掌，安于泰山。
今欲极天命之寿，敝无穷之乐，究万乘之势，不出反掌之易，以居泰山之安，而欲乘累卵之危，走上天之难，此愚臣之所大惑也。
人性有畏其景而恶其迹者，却背而走，迹愈多，景愈疾，不知就阴而止，景灭迹绝。
欲人勿闻，莫若勿言；欲人勿知，莫若勿为。
translation: 
Sticking to your post and being unyielding can be said to be loyal and dedicated.
Such merit and integrity were still doubted by the emperor, which made them dejected and embarrassed, and even regretted not joining the army with Wu in the first place. This was not good for the country.
I am afraid that the princes who insist on their duties will have doubts.
I have made a private estimate. You are the only one who can pass through Xishan, go straight to Changle Palace, and then to Weiyang Palace, where you can discuss political affairs with your sleeves rolled up and in an important place.
I have the merits of preserving a subjugated country, and I have the reputation of stabilizing the people below. My virtue is deep in my bones, and my kindness is endless. I hope that you, your Majesty, will pay attention to this matter and consider this matter carefully.
The king of Liang was very happy and sent someone to drive and report to the emperor quickly.
Therefore, the King of Jibei was exempted from punishment and was renamed King of Zichuan.
Meicheng, courtesy name Shu, was a native of Huaiyin County and served as the doctor to King Liu Bi of Wu.
At first, King Wu resented the imperial court and planned a rebellion. Mei Cheng wrote a letter to advise him:
I heard that if you get a perfect plan, you will prosper, but if you lose a perfect plan, you will completely perish.
Shun had no place to establish himself, but eventually he ruled the world; Yu didn't even have a town with ten households, but later he became the king of the princes.
The fiefdoms of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou were no more than a hundred miles apart, but they were virtuous and peaceful, and the heavenly phenomena made the sun, moon and stars move smoothly, and they were benevolent and did not make the people sad or disappointed. This was because they had the ruling strategy of the sage kings.
Therefore, the love between father and son comes out of nature; if loyal ministers are honest when admonishing them, even at the cost of their own lives, national politics will not make mistakes and their achievements will be remembered forever.
I am willing to reveal my true feelings and be loyal to you. I hope you, Your Majesty, will pay less attention to me and consider my painstaking efforts.
If a thing weighing a thousand hooks is tied to a strand of silk and is hoisted to an infinite height and down into an unfathomable abyss, even a very stupid person would feel worried knowing that the strand will be pulled apart.
The horse is frightened, and the drum is beaten to frighten it. The silk thread is broken, and a heavy object is added to pull it. The silk thread is severed in the air and cannot be rejoined. The heavy object falls into the abyss and is difficult to take out.
There is no room for hesitation as to whether this critical situation can be reversed.
If you can listen to the opinions of loyal ministers, everything will go smoothly and you will avoid disasters.
You must stick to your wrong ideas, which are as dangerous as egg pills stacked together, and more difficult than climbing to the sky; and correcting your ideas is as easy as turning your palms, and as stable as Mount Tai.
Now you want to enjoy the life of destiny, pursue endless pleasure, and explore the power of the Lord of Ten Thousand Vehicles. This is as easy as turning the palm of your hand. However, you ignore the stable situation like Mount Tai and pursue a career that is in danger and take a road that is as difficult as climbing to the sky. This is where I am deeply puzzled by you.
Some people are born afraid of their own shadows and hate their own footprints, but they turn their backs to the sun and run backwards. As a result, the footprints become more and more numerous, and the shadows follow the body. They don't know that if they stand in a shady place, the shadows will disappear and the footprints will be cut off.
If you don’t want others to hear what you are saying, it is best not to say it; if you don’t want others to know what you are doing, it is best not to do it.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
欲汤之凔，一人炊之，百人扬之，无益也，不如绝薪止火而已。
不绝之于彼，而救之于此，譬犹抱薪而救火也。
养由基，楚之善射者也，去杨叶百步，百发百中。
杨叶之大，加百中焉，可谓善射矣。
然其所止，乃百步之内耳，比于臣乘，未知操弓持矢也。
福生有基，祸生有胎；纳其基，绝其胎，祸何自来？
泰山之霤穿石，单极之纟亢断幹。
水非石之钻，索非木之锯，渐靡使之然也。
夫铢铢而称之，至石必差；寸寸而度之，至丈必过。
石称丈量，径而寡失。
夫十围之木，始生如蘖，足可搔而绝，手可擢而拔，据其未生，先其未形也。
磨砻底厉，不见其损，有时而尽；种树畜养，不见其益，有时而大；积德累行，不知其善，有时而用；弃义背理，不知其恶，有时而亡。
臣愿大王孰计而身行之，此百世不易之道也。
吴王不纳。乘等去而之梁，从孝王游。
景帝即位，御史大夫晃错为汉定制度，损削诸侯，吴王遂与六国谋反，举兵西乡，以诛错为名。
汉闻之，斩错以谢诸侯。
枚乘复说吴王曰：
昔者，秦西举胡戎之难，北备榆中之关，南距羌筰之塞，东当六国之从。
六国乘信陵之籍，明苏秦之约，厉荆轲之威，并力一心以备秦。
然秦卒禽六国，灭其社稷，而并天下，是何也？
translation: 
If you want to cool the soup and one person is lighting the fire, it will not work even if a hundred people are stirring it. It is better to remove the firewood and extinguish the flame.
Trying not to cut off its roots but to save its outflow is like holding firewood to put out a fire.
Yang Youji was a master of archery in Chu State. He was a hundred steps away from Yang Ye and could hit the target with perfect accuracy.
The poplar leaves are so small, but they can hit hundreds of shots, which can be said to be good at archery.
However, he can only move within a hundred steps. Compared with me, my minister, he still doesn’t know how to hold a bow or hold an arrow.
The emergence of blessings has its origins of good, and the emergence of disasters has its origins of evil. If we retain the goodness and cut off the origin of evil, where will the disaster come from?
The water from Mount Tai flows downhill over time and can break through stones; the wooden railings above the well will be worn down by the ropes due to the water being drawn all year round.
Water is not a drill for cutting stone, nor is a rope a saw for cutting wood. Long-term erosion and friction have resulted in this result.
If you weigh one baht one baht and add up to one stone, there will definitely be an error that may be light or heavy; if you measure it inch by inch, if you add up to one foot, there will definitely be an error that may be long or short.
If you directly use stones and meters to measure, you will rarely make mistakes.
A tree that is ten meters thick grows from a small bud. At that time, it would break if touched with the foot, and it would be pulled up if it was lifted with the hand, because it had not grown or taken shape.
When you sharpen a knife on a whetstone, you don't see the whetstone being diminished, but at a certain time, it is worn away; when you plant trees and raise livestock, you can't see them growing, but at a certain time, they grow up unknowingly; when you accumulate benevolence and good deeds, you don't feel that they are good, but when a certain time comes, they have an effect; when you abandon benevolence and righteousness and violate the laws of nature, you don't feel the evil of it, and when a certain time comes, it leads to ruin.
I hope that your Majesty, you will seriously think about it and practice it personally. This is the correct truth that will never change.
The King of Wu did not adopt Mei Cheng's suggestion, so Zhang Cheng and others left the King of Wu and went to the Kingdom of Liang to befriend the King of Liang.
After Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, established a system for the Han Dynasty and weakened the princes. The king of Wu therefore rebelled against the six kingdoms and led his troops westward towards Chang'an in the name of killing Chao Cuo.
When Emperor Jing heard about this, he killed Chao Cuo and apologized to the princes.
Meicheng once again advised King Wu, saying:
In the past, Qin put down the rebellion of the Hu and Rong tribes in the west, guarded the Yuzhong Pass in the north, garrisoned the Qiang and Zhazhi in the south, and fought against the coalition forces of the Six Nations in the east.
Relying on the prestige of Lord Xinling, the six countries affirmed Su Qin's oath and inspired Jing Ke's courage to work together to resist the Qin army.
However, Qin finally captured the six kingdoms, eradicated their ancestral temples, and annexed the world. What was the reason for this?


Chunk 14: 
original: 
则地利不同，而民轻重不等也。
今汉据全秦之地，兼六国之众，修戎狄之义，而南朝羌筰，此其与秦，地相什而民相百，大王之所明知也。
今夫谗谀之臣为大王计者，不论骨肉之义，民之轻重，国之大小，以为吴祸，此臣所以为大王患也。
夫举吴兵以訾于汉，璧犹蝇蚋之附群牛，腐肉之齿利剑，锋接必无事矣。
天子闻吴率失职诸侯，愿责先帝之遗约，今汉亲诛其三公，以谢前过，是大王之威加于天下，而功越于汤、武也。
夫吴有诸侯之位，而实富于天子；有隐匿之名，而居过于中国。
夫汉并二十四郡，十七诸侯，方输错出，运行数千里不绝于道，其珍怪不如东山之府。
转粟西乡，陆行不绝，水行满河，不如海陵之仓。
修治上林，杂以离宫，积聚玩好，圈守禽兽，不如长洲之苑。
游曲台，临上路，不如朝夕之池。
深壁高垒，副以关城，不如江淮之险。
此臣之所为大王乐也。
今大王还兵疾归，尚得十半。
不然，汉知吴之有吞天下之心也，赫然加怒，遣羽林黄头循江而下，龚大王之都；鲁东海绝吴之饷道；梁王饬车骑，习战射，积粟固守，以备荥阳，待吴之饥。大王虽欲反都，亦不得已。
夫三淮南之计不负其约，齐王杀身以灭其迹，四国不得出兵其郡，赵囚邯郸，此不可掩，亦已明矣。
大王已去千里之国，而制于十里之内矣。
translation: 
Because Qin and the Six Kingdoms have different geographical advantages and different numbers of people.
Now the Han Dynasty occupies all the land of the original Qin State, commanding as many soldiers as the original six kingdoms, practicing kindness and righteousness to appease the Rong and Di, and making the Qiang and Jierui Dynasties in the south submit. Compared with the Qin State, the Han Dynasty has ten times as much land and a hundred times as many subjects. You know all this.
Now the sycophants are making suggestions for you, the king, regardless of the kindness of your flesh and blood relatives, the number of people, and the size of the country, which will bring disaster to the country of Wu. This is what I am deeply worried about for you.
Compared with the Han Dynasty, the soldiers of the State of Wu were like flies and mosquitoes crawling on a herd of cattle, like using rotten meat to block a sharp sword. As soon as the two soldiers clashed, the army of the State of Wu would inevitably lose its combat effectiveness.
The Emperor heard that the princes of the State of Wu who had been deprived of their fiefdoms and lost their permanent posts requested to restore the treaty of the late emperor. Now the Emperor has personally killed Chao Cuo, one of the three princes, and apologized for his past mistakes. In this way, your power has been extended to the world, and your achievements have surpassed those of Shang Tang and Zhou Wu.
Although the state of Wu was a prince, it was actually richer than the emperor; it was located in the remote southeast and had the reputation of being hidden, but its power and skill actually exceeded that of the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty had twenty-four counties and seventeen princes. The tributes from the counties and counties were imported into the Han Dynasty's treasury. They traveled thousands of miles without stopping. The rare treasures in them were not as good as the Shushan Mansion in Wu State.
When transporting grain to the west of Chang'an, the roads were clogged with vehicles and the rivers were crowded with boats. The grain transported could not keep up with the Hailing warehouse of Wu.
The construction of Shanglin Garden, with a palace built on top, a collection of treasures for appreciation, and a garden for animals, is not as good as the Changzhou Garden of Wu State.
Playing in the Qutai Hall and overlooking the spacious road is not as good as the tidal pool of Wu State.
Tall and strong castles, coupled with border passes and the Great Wall, are not as dangerous as the natural dangers of Wu's Jianghuai River.
This is where I am happy for you, Your Majesty.
Now, Your Majesty, if you withdraw your troops immediately, you can still have a five-point chance of avoiding disaster.
Otherwise, if the Han Dynasty knows that Wu has the intention to annex the world, it will be furious and send Yulin navy down the river to attack the king's capital; order Lu to enter Shuhai and cut off Wu's food and salary supply; order Liang Wang to repair chariots, train soldiers in archery, hoard food, defend the city, and protect Rongyang until the Wu soldiers are hungry and tired. At that time, it will be impossible for you to return to the capital.
The three kingdoms of Huainan abided by the emperor's oath and did not betray. The king of Qi committed suicide to destroy the traces of rebellion. The four kingdoms of Miaojie and Jiaoxi were unable to send troops to support. King Chu was imprisoned in Handan. It was obvious that the crime of rebellion could no longer be concealed.
Your Majesty, you are thousands of miles away from your country and are controlled by troops stationed ten miles away.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
张、韩将此地，弓高宿左右，兵不得下壁，军不得太息，臣窃哀之。
愿大王孰察焉。
吴王不用乘策，卒见禽灭。
汉既平七国，乘由是知名。
景帝召拜乘为弘农都尉。
乘久为大国上宾，与英俊并游，得其所好，不乐郡吏，以病去官。
复游梁，梁客皆善属辞赋，乘尤高。
孝王薨，乘归淮阴。
武帝自为太子闻乘名，及即位，乘年老，乃以安车蒲轮征乘，道死。
诏问乘子，无能为文者，后乃得其薛子皋。
皋字少孺，乘在梁时，取皋母为小妻。
乘之东归也，皋母不肯随乘，乘怒，分皋数千钱，留与母居。
年十七，上书梁共王，得召为郎。
三年，为王使，与冗从争，见谗恶遇罪，家室没入。
皋亡至长安。
会赦，上书北阙，自陈枚乘之子。
上得大喜，召入见待诏，皋因赋殿中。
诏使赋平乐馆，善之。拜为郎，使匈奴。
皋不通经术，诙笑类俳倡，为赋颂好嫚戏，以故得媟默贵幸，比东方朔、郭舍人等，而不得比严助等得尊官。
武帝春秋二十九乃得皇子，群臣喜，故皋与东方朔作《皇太子生赋》及《立皇子禖祝》，受诏所为，皆不从故事，重皇子也。
初，卫皇后立，皋奏赋以戒终。
皋为赋善于朔也。
从行至甘泉、雍、河东，东巡狩，封泰山，塞决河宣房，游观三辅离宫馆，临山泽，弋猎射驭狗马蹴鞠刻镂，上有所感，辄使赋之。
为文疾，受诏辄成，故所赋者多。
司马相如善为文而迟，故所作少而善于皋。
皋赋辞中自言为赋不如相如，又言为赋乃俳，见视如倡，自悔类倡也。
故其赋有诋娸东方朔，又自诋娸。
其文骫骳，曲随其事，皆得其意，颇诙笑，不甚闲靡。
凡可读者百二十篇，其尤女曼戏不可读者尚数十篇。
路温舒字长君，巨鹿东里人也。
translation: 
Zhang Yu and Han Anguo led their troops to the north of Wu Bing, and Gonggao Hou Han Daidang led his troops to the left and right of Wu Bing. Wu Bing could not capture Liang's castle, and the soldiers could not rest well. I was secretly sad.
I hope your Majesty you will think about it again and again.
King Wu did not take Mei Cheng's advice and was eventually killed.
After the Han Dynasty put down the rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms, Meicheng became famous for it.
Emperor Jing summoned Meicheng and appointed him as the captain of Hongnong County.
Meicheng had been a distinguished guest of the princes and great powers for a long time, and he had socialized with heroes, which was very satisfactory to him. He did not like being a county official, so he resigned due to illness.
Meicheng visited Liang again. The guests of Liang State were all good at writing essays and poems, and Mei Cheng was the best.
After the death of King Xiao of Liang, Meicheng returned to Huaiyin County.
Emperor Wu had heard of Mei Cheng's reputation since he was the crown prince. When he ascended the throne as emperor, Mei Cheng was already old, so Emperor Wu used an "an chariot" wrapped in cattails to recruit him, but died of illness on the way.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to inquire about Mei Cheng's sons, but none of them were good at writing articles. Only later did he find his son Mei Gao, who was born to his concubine.
Meigao, named Shaoru. When Mei Cheng was in the Liang Kingdom, he took Mei Gao's mother as his concubine.
When Mei Chengshu returned to Huaiyin County, Mei Gao's mother was unwilling to follow Mei Cheng. Mei Cheng was furious and gave Meigao several thousand dollars, leaving him to live with his mother.
When Meigao was seventeen years old, he wrote to the King of the Communist Party and was called to be a Langguan.
Three years later, Meigao was on a mission to a certain place for King Liang Gong. He had a conflict with the King of Liang's attendants. He was slandered by the King of Liang's attendants and was convicted. His family members were taken into the government and their property was confiscated.
Meigao fled to Chang'an.
Just in time for the emperor to grant amnesty to criminals, Mei Gao wrote to the emperor in Beique, saying that he was Mei Cheng's son.
When the emperor learned about this, he was very happy. He called him into the palace to receive him and asked him to obey the imperial edict. Mei Gao then wrote a poem in the palace.
Emperor Wu issued an edict asking him to compose a poem for Pingle Hall. After the poem was written, Emperor Wu appreciated it and appointed him Lang Guan, sending him as an envoy to the Huns.
Meigao did not know the classics, he talked and laughed like a haiku actor in a variety show, and he also liked to use frivolous and indecent words when writing poems and poems. Therefore, he won the favor of the emperor and a high position of power because of his comedy and lack of solemnity. He was on par with Dongfang Shuo, Guo Sheren, etc., but he could not obtain high officials like Yan Zhu and others.
Emperor Wu had a son when he was twenty-nine years old, and all the officials were very happy. Therefore, Mei Gao and Dongfang Shuo wrote a poem for the birth of the crown prince and wrote "Mei Zhu" for the establishment of the prince. Because they were written under the emperor's order, they could not use teasing and disrespectful words to respect the prince.
When Wei Zifu was established as queen, Meigao presented her with a gift and warned her to be cautious about ending as she began.
Mei Gao was better than Dongfang Shuo in writing poems.
Meigao followed Emperor Wu to Ganquan Palace, Yongxian County, and Hedong County, toured the east, held a Zen ceremony in Mount Tai, blocked the Yellow River in Xuanfang, had fun in various palaces in the Sanfu area, traveled to the mountains to enjoy the scenery, shot birds and beasts, rode chariots and dogs, played Cuju and carved carvings. Whenever Emperor Wu felt emotional, he asked Meigao to write a poem to express his feelings.
Meigao wrote articles very quickly, and every time there was an edict, it could be completed immediately, so he wrote many poems and poems.
Sima Xiangru was also good at writing articles, but he wrote very slowly, so he did not have many poems, but the quality was higher than that of Mei Gao.
In his poems, Meigao admitted that he was not as good as the poems written by Sima Xiangru. He also said that writing poems was the specialty of opera performers. He was regarded as a haiku and was not respected. He was annoyed that he was similar to a haiku.
So he wrote a poem to mock Dongfang Shuo and himself.
His poems are full of twists and turns, and they follow the situation. He always grasps the key points without losing the original intention, and is humorous and humorous without being too graceful and gentle.
There are one hundred and twenty chapters that can be read, but there are dozens more that are too frivolous and inelegant to be read.
Lu Wenshu, also known as Changjun, was from Shuli, Julu County.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
父为里监门。使温舒牧羊，温舒取泽中蒲，截以为牒，编用写书。
稍习善，求为狱小吏，因学律令，转为狱史，县中疑事皆问焉。
太守行县，见而异之，署决曹史。
又受《春秋》，通大义。
举孝廉，为山邑丞，坐法免，复为郡吏。
元凤中，廷尉光以治诏狱，请温舒署奏曹掾，守廷尉史。
会昭帝崩，昌邑王贺废，宣帝初即位，温舒上书，言宜尚德缓刑。
其辞曰：
臣闻齐有无知之祸，而桓公以兴；晋有骊姬之难，而文公用伯。
近世赵王不终，诸吕作乱，而孝文为太宗。
繇是观之，祸乱之作，将以开圣人也。
故桓、文扶微兴坏，尊文武之业，泽加百姓，功润诸侯，虽不及三王，天下归仁焉。
文帝永思至德，以承天心，崇仁义，省刑罚，通关梁，一远近，敬贤如大宾，爱民如赤子，内恕情之所安，而施之于海内，是以囹圄空虚，天下太平。
夫继变化之后，必有异旧之恩，此贤圣所以昭天命也。
往者，昭帝即世而无嗣，大臣忧戚，焦心合谋，皆以昌邑尊亲，援而立之。
然天不授命，淫乱其心，遂以自亡。
深察祸变之故，乃皇天之所以开至圣也。
故大将军受命武帝，股肱汉国，披肝胆，决大计，黜亡义，立有德，辅天而行，然后宗庙以安，天下咸宁。
巨闻《春秋》正即位，大一统而慎始也。
陛下初登至尊，与天合符，宜改前世之失，正始受之统，涤烦文，除民疾，存亡继绝，以应天意。
translation: 
His father worked as the prison gate in Shuli and asked Lu Wenshu to shepherd the sheep. Lu Wenshu collected cattails from the water, cut them into the shape of slips, tied them with ropes, and wrote on them.
When he made some progress in his studies, he asked to be a junior jailer, taking the opportunity to learn the laws and regulations, and was promoted to prison history. Every time the county encountered difficult cases, he asked him for advice.
The prefect inspected various counties. When he saw him, he felt that he was not an ordinary person, so he asked him to perform the task of judging Cao Shi on his behalf.
He also studied "Spring and Autumn" as a teacher and had a rough idea of ​​its general meaning.
He was promoted to Xiaolian and became the county magistrate of Shanyi County. He was dismissed for breaking the law and later became a county official.
During the Yuanfeng period, Li Guang, the court lieutenant, tried to interrogate the prisoners who were raped under the emperor's edict. He asked Lu Wenshu to represent Cao Yu on his behalf and also perform the duties of the court lieutenant's history.
Just in time for the death of Emperor Zhao, King Liu He of Changyi was established as emperor but was immediately deposed. Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne and proclaimed himself emperor. Lu Wenshu wrote to Emperor Xuan, suggesting that benevolence should be upheld and punishments should be lightened.
This is what he said:
I heard that in the state of Qi there was ignorance and rebellion, but Duke Huan of Qi rose up suddenly; in the state of Jin there was trouble with Li Ji, but Duke Wen of Jin dominated the princes.
In modern times, King Tong was imprisoned and died, the Lu family rebelled, and Emperor Xiaowen became the emperor of the Han Dynasty.
From this point of view, the occurrence of disasters opens the way for the emergence of the Holy King.
Therefore, Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin supported the weak emperor, revived the dilapidated princes, followed the cause of King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, extended their kindness to the people, and performed meritorious deeds on the princes. Although they were not as good as the three kings, they made the people of the world return to benevolence and righteousness.
Emperor Wen always pursued the supreme virtue of government, complying with the will of God, respecting benevolence and righteousness, mitigating penalties, opening up bridges and bridges, making distance and distance the same, making transportation convenient, respecting worthy people as if they were distinguished guests, and caring for the people as if they were his own sons. He should think carefully about government orders with a generous heart, and only implement them throughout the country when he feels they are reasonable, thus creating a situation where the prisons are empty and the world is peaceful.
Following the chaos, there must be extraordinary kindness. This is the method used by sages to show their destiny.
In the past, when Emperor Zhao died and had no children to inherit the throne, the ministers were worried and discussed anxiously together. They all thought that Liu He, the king of Changyi, was the closest to Emperor Zhao and was his elder brother, with a higher position, so they invited him to be the emperor.
But God did not authorize him, but confused his heart and made him indulge in debauchery, and finally perished in vain.
If we carefully observe the cause of the disaster, we will find that God is opening the way for the saints.
Therefore, the general Huo Guang accepted Emperor Wu's order to assist the Han Dynasty. He was loyal and determined, decided on major plans, eliminated the unjust people, and established a virtuous king to do justice for heaven. Only then could the country be stable and the world peaceful.
I heard that "Spring and Autumn" was written in the first month of the first year of the throne, praising unity and attaching importance to the beginning.
Your Majesty, you have just ascended the throne of the emperor, and it is in line with God's will. You should correct the mistakes of the previous dynasty, correct the imperial line you just accepted, eliminate the cumbersome regulations, relieve the suffering of the people, and ensure the survival of the people in accordance with God's will.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
臣闻秦有十失，其一尚存，治狱之吏是也。
秦之时，羞文学，好武勇，贱仁义之士，贵治狱之吏；正言者谓之诽谤，遏过者谓之妖言。
故盛服先生不用于世，忠良切言皆郁于胸，誉谀之声日满于耳；虚美熏心，实祸蔽塞。
此乃秦之所以亡天下也。
方今天下赖陛下恩厚，亡金革之危，饥寒之患，父子夫妻戮力安家，然太平未洽者，狱乱之也。
夫狱者，天下之大命也，死者不可复生，绝者不可复属。
《书》曰： 与其杀不辜，宁失不经。
今治狱吏则不然，上下相驱，以刻为明；深者获公名，平者多后患。
故治狱之吏皆欲人死，非憎人也，自安之道在人之死。
是以死人之血流离于市，被刑之徒比肩而立，大辟之计岁以万数，此仁圣之所以伤也。
太平之未洽，凡以此也。
夫人情安则乐生，痛则思死。
棰楚之下，何求而不得？
故囚人不胜痛，则饰辞以视之；吏治者利其然，则指道以明之；上奏畏却，则锻练而周内之。
盖奏当之成，虽咎繇听之，犹以为死有余辜。
何则？成练者众，文致之罪明也。
是以狱吏专为深刻，残贼而亡极，偷为一切，不顾国患，此世之大贼也。
故俗语曰： 画地为狱，议不入；刻木为吏，期不对。
此皆疾吏之风，悲痛之辞也。
故天下之患，莫深于狱；败法乱正，离亲塞道，莫甚乎治狱之吏。
translation: 
I heard that the Qin Dynasty had ten major faults. One of them still exists today, and that is the officials who tried the prison.
When Qin ruled, he despised literature and classics, liked force and bravery, despised the benevolent and righteous people, and respected the officials in prison; correct words and advice were regarded as slander, and accusations of faults were regarded as lies.
Therefore, people with high moral character are not reused, their loyal hearts and sincere words can only be hidden in their chests, and the sounds of flattery are endless; false praises confuse their minds, and the real disasters are turned a blind eye.
This is the reason why the Qin Dynasty lost the world.
Now, thanks to your great kindness, people in the world are no longer in danger of war or suffering from hunger or cold. Fathers, sons, and husbands work together to build their homes. However, peace in the world has not yet been truly achieved. This is because of the destruction of prisons.
Prison is the key to ordering chaos in the country. Dead people cannot come back to life, and limbs that have been severed cannot be rejoined by electricity.
The Book of Books says: Rather than killing an innocent person, it is better to be unconventional.
Nowadays, the officials who handle prison sentences are not like this. They drive each other up and down, regard harshness as innocence, and gain a reputation for fairness by committing serious crimes. However, those who enforce the law fairly have many consequences.
Therefore, the officials in charge of the trial wanted the people under trial to be executed, not because they hated these people, but because the way to protect themselves was to let these people die.
Therefore, the blood of those who were convicted and killed flows all over the city, and people who are punished for their crimes are everywhere. Tens of thousands of people are sentenced to great punishment every year. This is the reason why the benevolent and holy government is damaged.
A peaceful and prosperous age cannot be realized, and this is probably where the problem lies.
As far as human relationships are concerned, when you are at peace, you love life, and when you are in pain, you think of death.
Under severe torture, what kind of confession can be obtained?
Therefore, a person who was imprisoned and tried could not bear the pain of torture, so he fabricated a confession, admitted his guilt, and gave the confession to the official who was interrogating him. The official who was interrogating him found it convenient, so he pointed out and guided him to make him understand his crime. When he reported it, he was afraid that it would be returned, so he repeatedly revised the memorial to make it flawless.
The crime stipulated in the memorial has been completed. Even if the lawsuit is dismissed, the convicted person will still be considered to have deserved his death. Why?
Because the memorial has been revised many times, the charges listed in the legal provisions are clear and correct.
Therefore, the prison officials invoke the law and fall into sin. They are harsh and cruel without limits, muddle along, act expediently, and do not consider the disaster they will bring to the country. This is the biggest disaster today.
Therefore, as the saying goes: if the painted ground is used as a prison, no one will dare to go to court to discuss politics; if the carved wood is used as an official, no one will dare to take measures.
These are all cries of grief and indignation made by hating officials who enforce the law harshly.
Therefore, there is no greater disaster in the world than prison. There is no one more powerful than an official who breaks the law, violates the right rules, separates relatives, and blocks the holy path.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
此所谓一尚存者也。
臣闻乌鸢之卵不毁，而后凤凰集；诽谤之罪不诛，而后良言进。
故古人有言： 山薮藏疾，川泽纳污，瑾瑜匿恶，国君含诟。
唯陛下除诽谤以招切言，开天下之口，广箴谏之路，扫亡秦之失，尊文、武之德，省法制，宽刑罚，以废治狱，则太平之风可兴于世，永履和乐，与天亡极，天下幸甚。
上善其言，迁广阳私府长。
内史举温舒文学高第，迁右扶风丞。
时，诏书令公卿选可使匈奴者。温舒上书，愿给厮养，暴骨方对，以尽臣节。事下度辽将军范明友、太仆杜延年问状，罢归故官。
久之，迁临淮太守，治有异迹，卒于官。
温舒从祖父受历数天文，以为汉厄三七之间，上封事以豫戒。
成帝时，谷永亦言如此。
及王莽篡位，欲章代汉之符，著其语焉。
温舒子及孙皆至牧守大官。
赞曰：春秋鲁臧孙达以礼谏君，君子以为有后。
贾山自下劘上，邹阳、枚乘游于危国，然卒免刑戮者，以其言正也。
路温舒辞顺而意笃，遂为世家，宜哉！
translation: 
This is one of the ten major faults of the Qin Dynasty that exists to this day.
I heard that where the eggs of crows and owls are not harmed, the phoenix will fall; the crime of slandering the monarch will not be punished, and only then will someone give honest advice.
Therefore, someone in ancient times said: The mountains have vegetation and poisonous things live in them; the rivers and lakes are vast and can accommodate muddy water; and the beautiful jade contains slight flaws. A ruler who is good at controlling his ministers should also tolerate the shame of being criticized.
As long as you exempt those who slander the monarch from the blame and accept straightforward advice, open up the channels of speech, eliminate the mistakes that led to the fall of Qin, follow the virtuous policies of King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, reduce legal provisions, relax penalties, and abolish the prison of torture, then the age of peace and prosperity will come, with eternal peace and happiness, coexisting with heaven and earth, and everyone in the world will feel infinite joy.
Emperor Xuan appreciated Lu Wenshu's petition and promoted him to the position of head of Guangyang's private palace.
The internal history recommended Lu Wenshu as the first-class scholar in literature, and he was promoted to You Fufeng Cheng.
At that time, the emperor issued a Shao letter instructing the ministers to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to the Huns. Lu Wenshu submitted a letter, requesting that he be sent as an entourage to accompany the envoys on missions to the Huns in order to serve the emperor. The emperor reviewed the letter and forwarded it to General Fan Mingyou and his servant Du Yannian to inquire about the situation. Because his words were unreasonable, he returned to the Forbidden City.
A long time later, he was promoted to the prefect of Linhuai County. His political performance was very outstanding, and he died in office.
Lu Wenshu, who had learned almanac and astronomy from his grandfather, believed that the Han Dynasty would encounter a great disaster around 210 years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, so he secretly wrote to the emperor to take precautions.
When he became emperor, Gu Yong also said the same thing.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne and announced to the world the basis of Dai Mo, he publicized these words.
Lu Wenshu's sons and grandsons all became high-ranking officials such as state pastor and prefect.
Praise says: In the Spring and Autumn Period, Zang Sunda of the Lu State admonished the monarch with etiquette and righteousness. People with high moral character believed that his descendants would be prosperous.
Maishan pointed out the emperor's faults from below, and Zou Yang and Mei Cheng traveled to kingdoms that were in danger of collapse, but they were able to avoid being tortured and killed because they strictly adhered to the right way of speaking.
Lu Wenshu speaks softly and is sincere, so his descendants will serve as high-ranking officials for generations to come. It’s only fitting!


