Chunk 0: 
original: 
周舍徐勉周舍，字升逸，汝南安城人，晋左光禄大夫抃之八世孙也。父颙，齐中书侍郎，有名于时。
舍幼聪颍，颙异之，临卒谓曰： 汝不患不富贵，但当持之以道德。
既长，博学多通，尤精义理，善诵书，背文讽说，音韵清辩。
起家齐太学博士，迁后军行参军。
建武中，魏人吴包南归，有儒学，尚书仆射江祏招包讲。舍造坐，累折包，辞理遒逸，由是名为口辩。
王亮为丹阳尹，闻而悦之，辟为主簿，政事多委焉。
迁太常丞。
梁台建，为奉常丞。
高祖即位，博求异能之士。吏部尚书范云与颙素善，重舍才器，言之于高祖，召拜尚书祠部郎。
时天下草创，礼仪损益，多自舍出。
寻为后军记室参军、秣陵令。
入为中书通事舍人，累迁太子洗马，散骑常侍，中书侍郎，鸿胪卿。
时王亮得罪归家，故人莫有至者，舍独敦恩旧，及卒，身营殡葬，时人称之。
迁尚书吏部郎，太子右卫率，右卫将军，虽居职屡徙，而常留省内，罕得休下。国史诏诰，仪体法律，军旅谋谟，皆兼掌之。
日夜侍上，预机密，二十余年未尝离左右。
舍素辩给，与人泛论谈谑，终日不绝口，而竟无一言漏泄机事，众尤叹服之。
性俭素，衣服器用，居处床席，如布衣之贫者。
每入官府，虽广厦华堂，闺阁重邃，舍居之则尘埃满积。
以荻为鄣，坏亦不营。
为右卫，母忧去职，起为明威将军、右骁骑将军。
服阕，除侍中，领步兵校尉，未拜，仍迁员外散骑常侍、太子左卫率。
顷之，加散骑常侍、本州大中正，迁太子詹事。
普通五年，南津获武陵太守白涡书，许遗舍面钱百万，津司以闻。
虽书自外入，犹为有司所奏，舍坐免。
迁右骁骑将军，知太子詹事。
translation: 
Zhou She, whose courtesy name was Shengyi, was born in Runan'an. He was the eighth grandson of Zhou Chan, a doctor named Zuo Guanglu of the Jin Dynasty. His father, Zhou Yi, served as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu in the Qi Dynasty and was famous at that time.
Zhou She was smart when he was young. Zhou Yi thought he was very strange. Before he died, he said to him: "You don't have to worry about not being rich, you just should uphold morality."
When he grew up, he was erudite and proficient in doctrine. He was good at reading books aloud, reciting articles and making arguments, with a clear tone and eloquence.
He became an official and became a doctor of Taixue in the Qi Dynasty. He was transferred to the rear army and joined the army.
During the Jianwu period, Wu Bao, a native of Wei State, returned to the south and had Confucianism. Shangshu Pushe Jiang Zhe recruited Wu Bao to teach. Zhou She visited and sat down. He was impressed by Wu Bao many times. He was strong and elegant in arts and science, so he was known as eloquent.
Wang Liang served as Danyang Yin. After hearing about it, he liked him and made him the chief administrator. He entrusted many political affairs to him.
Transferred to Taichang Cheng.
In the Liang Dynasty, Tai Pavilion was established and he served as Feng Changcheng.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he extensively sought out people with special talents. Fan Yun, the Minister of Civil Affairs, and Zhou Yi had always been friendly. They valued Zhou She's talent and reported it to Emperor Gaozu, recruiting Zhou Chuang and appointing him as Shangshu Temple Minister.
At that time, the country was founded, and most of the additions and subtractions of etiquette came from Zhou She.
Soon he served as a member of the Hou Army Records Office and the Moling Order.
He entered the court as Zhongshu Tongshiren, and was promoted many times to the crown prince Xi Ma, Sanqi Changshi, Zhongshu Shilang, and Hongshanqing.
At that time, Wang Liang returned home after committing a crime and no friends came to see him. Zhou She valued the old favor alone. When Wang Liang died, he personally arranged the funeral and burial for him. People at that time praised him.
He was transferred to Shangshu Libu Lang, Prince Right Guard, and Right Guard General. Although his positions were changed many times, he often stayed in the official office and rarely went home for rest. He was in charge of national history, Shaogao, etiquette, law, and military strategy.
He served the emperor at night, participated in confidential affairs, and never left his side for more than twenty years.
Zhou She has always been eloquent, talking and joking with others all day long, but he never leaked secrets in a single word. Everyone admired and admired him.
His character is frugal and simple, and his clothes, utensils, and beds are just like those of the poor among the common people.
Every time I enter the palace, even if it is a tall and gorgeous building with layers of inner rooms, the houses are full of dust after living there.
Use Ogweed as a cover and don't dispose of it if it breaks.
He served as right guard and resigned due to the death of his mother. He came back as General Mingwei and General You Xiaoqi.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed as a sergeant and an infantry captain. However, he did not take up the post. He was also transferred to the rank of standing servant and the prince's left guard.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Regular Attendant of Sanqi and Dazhongzheng of the state, and was transferred to Prince Zhan Shi.
In ordinary seven years, Nanjin intercepted a letter from Bai Guo, the prefect of Wuling, promising to give Zhou She one million noodles, and the officer in charge of the ferry reported it.
Although the letter was delivered from outside, Zhou She was still cited by the relevant officials, and Zhou She was convicted and exempted from office.
He was transferred to General You Xiaoqi to take charge of Prince Zhan's affairs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以其年卒，时年五十六。
上临哭，哀恸左右。
诏曰： 太子詹事、豫州大中正舍，奄至殒丧，恻怆于怀。
其学思坚明，志行开敏，劬劳机要，多历岁年，才用未穷，弥可嗟恸。
宜隆追远，以旌善人。
可赠侍中、护军将军，鼓吹一部，给东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，丧事随由资给。
谥曰简子。
明年，又诏曰： 故侍中、护军将军简子舍，义该玄儒，博穷文史，奉亲能孝，事君尽忠，历掌机密，清贞自居。
食不重味，身靡兼衣。
终亡之日，内无妻妾，外无田宅，两儿单贫，有过古烈。
往者，南司白涡之劾，恐外议谓朕有私，致此黜免，追愧若人一介之善。
外可量加褒异，以旌善人。
二子：弘义，弘信。
徐勉，字修仁，东海郯人也。
祖长宗，宋高祖霸府行参军。
父融，南昌相。
勉幼孤贫，早励清节。
年六岁，时属霖雨，家人祈霁，率尔为文，见称耆宿。
及长，笃志好学。
起家国子生。
太尉文宪公王俭时为祭酒，每称勉有宰辅之量。
射策举高第，补西阳王国侍郎。
寻迁太学博士，镇军参军，尚书殿中郎，以公事免。
又除中兵郎、领军长史。
琅邪王元长才名甚盛，尝欲与勉相识，每托人召之。
勉谓人曰： 王郎名高望促，难可轻醿衣裾。
俄而元长及祸，时人莫不服其机鉴。
初与长沙宣武王游，高祖深器赏之。
及义兵至京邑，勉于新林谒见，高祖甚加恩礼，使管书记。
高祖践阼，拜中书侍郎，迁建威将军、后军谘议参军、本邑中正、尚书左丞。
translation: 
He died in this year at the age of fifty-six.
The emperor went to express his condolences, and was moved by sadness.
The edict said: Prince Zhan Shi, the Dazhongzheng of Yuzhou, passed away suddenly, and he was sad in his heart.
He has solid knowledge and clear thinking, broad ambition and quick actions. He works hard for confidential affairs. After many years of experience, his talents have not been exhausted. He is very sad and sad.
The etiquette of remembrance should be respected to honor good people.
You can give posthumous gifts to the attendants and generals who protect the army, a piece of propaganda, a coffin, a set of official uniforms, and a set of clothes. The funeral can be provided according to the situation.
Mi was named King Jian.
The following year, another edict was issued saying: The late Wang Zhoujie, who was a servant and general in charge of the army, was well versed in Confucianism and Taoism. He was broad and comprehensive in literature and history. He could serve his relatives with filial piety and his monarch with loyalty. He had been in charge of secrets for many years and required himself to be honest and loyal.
There is no unnecessary taste in food and there are no unnecessary clothes on the body.
When he died, he had no wives or concubines at home, no land or house outside, and his two sons were lonely and poor, surpassing ancient celebrities.
In the past, regarding the impeachment of Bai Guo by Nansi, I was afraid that outsiders would talk about my selfishness, and even issued an edict to depose and remove me from office, in order to recall my good deeds that were unworthy of the upright Japanese people.
The foreign government can use praise as appropriate to commend good people.
Zhou She had two sons: Hongyi and Hongxin.
Xu Mian, whose courtesy name was Xiuren, was a native of Tan, East China Sea.
Grandfather Changzong served as the commander of the residence of the feudal prince of the Song Dynasty and joined the army.
His father, Xu Rong, served as the Prime Minister of Nanchang.
Xu Mian was lonely and poor when he was young, and he honed his moral integrity very early.
When he was six years old, when it rained heavily and his family prayed for clear weather, Xu Mian casually wrote a blessing, which was praised by his elders.
When you grow up, be determined to be eager to learn.
He started his family as a son of the country.
Taiwei Wenxian, Duke Wang Jian, was the wine minister at that time, and he often praised Xu Mian for his magnanimity as a prime minister.
He ranked first in the examination and was appointed as the Minister of Xiyang Kingdom.
Soon he was transferred to the post of doctor of Taixue, joined the army in town, and became the lieutenant of Shangshu Palace. He was dismissed from his post due to official business.
He was also awarded the title of "Zhongbing Lang" and "Leading Army Chief".
Wang Yuanchang, a native of Langxie, had a high reputation for literary talent. He once wanted to get acquainted with Xu Mian and often asked people to summon him.
Xu Mian said: Wang Lang's reputation is so high and rising rapidly that it is difficult for him to tear his clothes easily.
Not long after Yuan Chang was in trouble, everyone at that time admired Xu Mian's sharp insight.
At first, he made friends with King Xuanwu of Changsha. Emperor Gaozu valued him highly.
When the rebel army arrived in the capital, Xu Mian met with him in Xinlin. Emperor Gaozu treated him with special kindness and courtesy and assigned him to be in charge of Wen Secretary Lu.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, Xu Mian was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu, and was transferred to General Jianwei, Houjun Consultation to join the army, Zhongzheng of Honzhou, and Zuocheng of Shangshu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
自掌枢宪，多所纠举，时论以为称职。
天监二年，除给事黄门侍郎、尚书吏部郎，参掌大选。
迁侍中。
时王师北伐，候驿填委。
勉参掌军书，劬劳夙夜，动经数旬，乃一还宅。
每还，群犬惊吠。
勉叹曰： 吾忧国忘家，乃至于此。
若吾亡后，亦是传中一事。
六年，除给事中、五兵尚书，迁吏部尚书。
勉居选官，彝伦有序，既闲尺牍，兼善辞令，虽文案填积，坐客充满，应对如流，手不停笔。
又该综百氏，皆为避讳。
常与门入夜集，客有虞皓求詹事五官，勉正色答云： 今夕止可谈风月，不宜及公事。
故时人咸服其无私。
除散骑常侍，领游击将军，未拜，改领太子右卫率。
迁左卫将军，领太子中庶子，侍东宫。
昭明太子尚幼，敕知宫事。
太子礼之甚重，每事询谋。
尝于殿内讲《孝经》，临川靖惠王、尚书令沈约备二傅，勉与国子祭酒张充为执经，王莹、张稷、柳憕、王暕为侍讲。
时选极亲贤，妙尽时誉，勉陈让数四。
又与沈约书，求换侍讲，诏不许，然后就焉。
转太子詹事，领云骑将军，寻加散骑常侍，迁尚书右仆射，詹事如故。
又改授侍中，频表解宫职，优诏不许。
时人间丧事，多不遵礼，朝终夕殡，相尚以速。
勉上疏曰： 《礼记问丧》云： 三日而后敛者，以俟其生也。三日而不生，亦不生矣。
自顷以来，不遵斯制。
送终之礼，殡以期日，润屋豪家，乃或半晷，衣衾棺椁，以速为荣，亲戚徒隶，各念休反。
故属纩才毕，灰钉已具，忘狐鼠之顾步，愧燕雀之徊翔。
translation: 
Since taking over the power of law enforcement, there have been many pickets and impeachments, and public opinion at that time believed that he was competent for his job.
In the second year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen and the Minister of Libu, and participated in the selection of important officials.
Transferred to serve as a servant.
At that time, the imperial army was marching north, and documents waiting to be sent were piled up.
Xu Mian was involved in taking charge of military documents and worked hard day and night. It often took dozens of days before he could return home.
Every time he returned, the dogs at home would bark in surprise.
Xu Mian sighed and said: I am worried that the country will forget the family and go to the extreme.
If I die, it will be a biographical thing.
In the sixth year, he was appointed Minister of Shizhong and Wubing, and was transferred to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Xu Mian is in the department that selects officials. He is well organized, familiar with letters and good at rhetoric. Although there are piles of copywriting and a room full of guests, he can cope with things like water, and he still keeps writing in his hands.
It also understands hundreds of surnames and can avoid using taboos for them.
Xu Mian often had night gatherings with Menjin, and a guest named Yu Song wanted to talk to Zhan about the five sense organs. Xu Mian said solemnly: "Tonight we can only talk about the breeze and the bright moon, and there should be no business involved."
So people at that time admired his lack of selfishness.
He was appointed as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry and a guerrilla general. Before he took office, he was appointed as the prince's right guard.
He was transferred to Zuowei General and the crown prince's concubine to serve in the East Palace.
Prince Zhaoming was still young and ordered Xu Mian to take charge of palace affairs.
The prince respected him very much and consulted and discussed everything.
The "Book of Filial Piety" was taught in the palace. King Jinghui of Linchuan and Shangshu ordered Shen Yue to serve as Taifu and Shaofu. Xu Mian and Guozi Jijiu Zhang Chong were responsible for teaching the classics and teaching. Wang Ying, Zhang Ji, Liu Kai and Wang Mei served as ministers.
At that time, the candidates were extremely close and wise, and they were highly praised at that time. Xu Mian repeatedly stated his recommendation.
He also wrote a letter to Shen Yue, requesting that he be replaced as a minister, but the imperial edict did not allow it, and he took up the post.
He was appointed Prince Zhan Shi and concurrently General of Yunqi. Soon he was granted the title of Regular Attendant of Sanqi and was promoted to Minister, Right Servant. Zhan Shi remained as before.
He was also promoted to a servant, and he frequently petitioned to be relieved of his position in the palace, but Shaoshu politely replied that he would not allow it.
At that time, folk funerals often did not follow etiquette. People died in the morning and funerals were held in the evening.
Xu Mian wrote in his memorial: "Book of Rites." "Wen Ming Ming" says: If the person is buried after three days, he is waiting for the resurrection of the deceased; if he does not come back to life after three days, he will not be able to be resurrected.
In recent times, this system has not been followed.
The final ceremony was held on the same day as the funeral. Some wealthy families only took half a day to put on clothes and coffins. They regarded speed as an honor. Relatives and servants each wanted to rest and return.
So just when the deceased is about to lose his breath, the lime nails are ready. He forgets about the fox and mouse turning back and walks away, and feels nostalgic about the lingering and flying sparrow.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
伤情灭理，莫此为大。
且人子承衾之时，志懑心绝，丧事所资，悉关他手，爱憎深浅，事实难原。
如觇视或爽，存没违滥，使万有其一，怨酷已多。岂若缓其告敛之晨，申其望生之冀。
请自今士庶，宜悉依古，三日大敛。
如有不奉，加以纠绳。
诏可其奏。
寻授宣惠将军，置佐史，侍中、仆射如故。
又除尚书仆射、中卫将军。
勉以旧恩，越升重位，尽心奉上，知无不为。
爰自小选，迄于此职，常参掌衡石，甚得士心。
禁省中事，未尝漏泄。
每有表奏，辄焚藁草。
博通经史，多识前载。
朝仪国典，婚冠吉凶，勉皆预图议。
普通六年，上修五礼表曰：
臣闻 立天之道，曰阴与阳；立人之道，曰仁与义。
故称 导之以德，齐之以礼 。
夫礼所以安上治民，弘风训俗，经国家，利后嗣者也。
唐虞三代，咸必由之。
在乎有周，宪章尤备，因殷革夏，损益可知。
虽复经礼三百，曲礼三千，经文三百，威仪三千，其大归有五，即宗伯所掌典礼：吉为上，凶次之，宾次之，军次之，嘉为下也。
故祠祭不以礼，则不齐不庄；丧纪不以礼，则背死忘生者众；宾客不以礼，则朝觐失其仪；军旅不以礼，则致乱于师律；冠婚不以礼，则男女失其时。
为国修身，于斯攸急。
洎周室大坏，王道既衰，官守斯文，日失其序。礼乐征伐，出自诸侯，《小雅》尽废，旧章缺矣。
是以韩宣适鲁，知周公之德；叔侯在晋，辨郊劳之仪。
战国从横，政教愈泯；暴秦灭学，扫地无余。
translation: 
There is no greater harm to feelings and reasons than sending someone off.
Moreover, when the son received the single quilt covering the corpse, he felt depressed and sad. Everything needed for the funeral came from the hands of others. The depth of love and hatred, the matter was really unforgivable.
If there are occasional errors in observation, life and death are contradictory, if one person in ten thousand has a lot of resentment and cruelty, nothing can be compared to delaying the time of burial and expressing the hope of resurrection.
I request that from now on, regardless of the scholar family or common people, they should follow the ancient system and be buried after three days.
Anyone who fails to comply will be punished and punished.
The edict agreed with Xu Mian's memorial.
Soon after, he was appointed General Xuanhui and appointed auxiliary staff. The positions of servants and servants remained the same.
He was also appointed as Shangshu Pushe and Zhongwei General.
Xu Mian was promoted to a higher position because of his old friendship and served the emperor wholeheartedly. There is nothing you know that you cannot do.
From a small position to this position, he often participated in the selection of talents and was very popular among scholars.
Things in the palace offices have never been leaked.
Every time a chapter was written, the draft was burned.
He is well versed in classics and history books and remembers many things from previous generations.
Xu Mian participated in the deliberation of the national code of court etiquette, wedding crowning and other good and bad etiquette.
In ordinary six years, he submitted a memorial table revising the five rites and said:
I heard that to establish the principles of heaven, there are two aspects of yin and yang; to establish the principles of human beings, there are two aspects of benevolence and righteousness.
Therefore, we use morality to guide and etiquette to unify.
Etiquette is used to stabilize the monarch and rule the people, promote fashions and teach customs, govern the country, and benefit successors.
Lu Liang and Lu Ai's three campaigns must govern the country through etiquette.
In the Zhizhou dynasty, the regulations were particularly complete, and the rise and fall of the summer system can be known due to the reform of summer production in accordance with Yin rites.
Although there are 300 large rituals, 3000 small rituals, 300 scriptures, and 3000 styles of majestic etiquette, there are five major aspects of the etiquette that Zong Bo is in charge of: the auspicious ceremony is the first, the bad ceremony is next, the guest ceremony is next, the military ceremony is the next, and the good ceremony is at the end.
Therefore, sacrifices without etiquette are not neat and solemn; funerals without etiquette result in many people going against the wishes of the deceased and forgetting the obligations of the living; reception of guests without etiquette makes the court meeting unstandardized; military operations without etiquette disturbs military discipline; crowning and marriage without etiquette delays the union of men and women.
It is urgent to govern the country and cultivate oneself.
Since the collapse of the Qie family, the decline of governance, the official protection regulations have lost their order day by day, rituals, music and conquests have come from the princes, "Xiaoya" has been completely abandoned, and the old chapters have been lost.
So Longxuan went to Dieli to learn about Li Gong's virtues; Zhao Bao went to Zhili to learn about the etiquette of condolences in the countryside.
During the Warring States Period, political enlightenment was further reduced; the brutal Qin State destroyed academic scholarship and was swept away without leaving any legacy.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
汉氏郁兴，日不暇给，犹命叔孙于外野，方知帝王之为贵。
末叶纷纶，递有兴毁，或以武功锐志，或好黄老之言，礼义之式，于焉中止。
及东京曹褒，南宫制述，集其散略，百有余篇，虽写以尺简，而终阙平奏。
其后兵革相寻，异端互起，章句既沦，俎豆斯辍。
方领矩步之容，事灭于旌鼓；兰台石室之文，用尽于帷盖。
至乎晋初，爰定新礼，荀抃制之于前，挚虞删之于末。
既而中原丧乱，罕有所遗；江左草创，因循而已。
厘革之风，是则未暇。
伏惟陛下睿明启运，先天改物，拨乱惟武，经世以文。
作乐在乎功成，制礼弘于业定。
光启二学，皇枝等于贵游；辟兹五馆，草莱升以好爵。
爰自受命，迄于告成，盛德形容备矣，天下能事毕矣。
明明穆穆，无德而称焉。
至若玄符灵贶之祥，浮溟机山之赆，固亦日书左史，副在司存，今可得而略也。
是以命彼群才，搜甘泉之法；延兹硕学，阐曲台之仪。
淄上淹中之儒，连踪继轨；负笈怀铅之彦，匪旦伊夕。
谅以化穆三雍，人从五典，秩宗之教，勃焉以兴。
伏寻所定五礼，起齐永明三年，太子步兵校尉伏曼容表求制一代礼乐，于时参议置新旧学士十人，止修五礼，谘禀卫将军丹阳尹王俭，学士亦分住郡中，制作历年，犹未克就。
及文宪薨殂，遗文散逸，后又以事付国子祭酒何胤，经涉九载，犹复未毕。
建武四年，胤还东山，齐明帝敕委尚书令徐孝嗣。
旧事本末，随在南第。
永元中，孝嗣于此遇祸，又多零落。
translation: 
When the Han clan rose, they had no time to spare all day long, and even ordered Shusun Tong to practice in the wild. Only then did he realize how valuable the emperor was.
In the chaos of the last years, there was a succession of ruins. Some took martial arts as their firm ambition, and some liked the opinions of Huangdi and Laowang. The rules of etiquette and justice were discontinued during the period of time.
Dahu, who was waiting for Sailian, wrote in Huxuan and collected more than 100 missing and missing texts. Although they were written on bamboo slips, they were not ultimately submitted to the memorial.
Then wars continued, different opinions emerged, and the rituals ceased when the chapters and sentences were lost.
The appearance of the square collar and the correct steps disappeared due to the war; the documents in the Lantai Stone Room were exhausted because of the curtains.
At the beginning of Jin Dynasty, the new etiquette was determined, with Xun Chan formulating it first and Zhi Lu deleting it later.
Soon the Central Plains encountered death, bereavement, and turmoil, and very few were left. They were placed in new buildings, just following the old etiquette.
In the spirit of reform, there is no time to spare.
His Majesty's wisdom opened up the destiny of the country, changed all things before God, used force to control troubled times, and used culture and education to govern society.
After the achievement of creating music, the establishment of etiquette and the establishment of a great foundation are laid.
By establishing the Second Academy, members of the royal family will be treated as princes and nobles without official positions; by setting up the Five Academy, the people can be promoted to higher titles.
From the moment he was appointed until he reported his success to heaven, Shanda's virtuous image was in place, and everything that could be done in the world was completed.
He is wise and dignified, but he can be praised without virtue.
As for the auspiciousness induced by the dark phase and the Gong Na traveling through mountains and rivers, they were originally recorded in Zuo Shi on a daily basis, and the copies are kept in the competent departments, so they can be omitted now.
Therefore, I ordered those talented people to collect the laws of Ganquan and hired some knowledgeable people to explain the etiquette of Qutai.
The Confucian scholars in Yanzhong, Zishang, came one after another; the beauties who memorized books to study did not distinguish between morning and evening.
Liang Bijiao was purified in Sanyong, and everyone obeyed the five religions. The enlightenment of the officiating officials flourished.
The study of the five rites formulated began in the third year of the Yongming Dynasty in the Qi Dynasty. Fu Manrong, the prince's infantry captain, submitted a petition to formulate a ritual and music system for the generation. At this time, ten new and old bachelors were involved in the discussion, and only the five rites were revised. They consulted and reported to General Danyang Yin Wangjian of the Wei Dynasty. The bachelors also lived in the county separately. It was formulated for several years but has not yet been completed.
When Duke Wen Xiang passed away, the work was scattered and lost. Later, the work was entrusted to He Yin, the son of the state to offer wine. After nine years, it was not completed.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, He Yin returned to Shushan, and Emperor Qi Ming ordered to entrust it to Shangshu Ling Xu Xiaosi.
The main body and details of the old manuscript were placed with him in Nanfu.
During the Yongyuan period, Xiaosi encountered disaster in Qianbao, and most of the original text was lost.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
当时鸠敛所余，权付尚书左丞蔡仲熊、骁骑将军何佟之，共掌其事。
时修礼局住在国子学中门外，东昏之代，频有军火，其所散失，又逾太半。
天监元年，佟之启审省置之宜，敕使外详。
时尚书参详，以天地初革，庶务权舆，宜俟隆平，徐议删撰。欲且省礼局，并还尚书仪曹。
诏旨云： 礼坏乐缺，故国异家殊，实宜以时修定，以为永准。
但顷之修撰，以情取人，不以学进；其掌知者，以贵总一，不以稽古，所以历年不就，有名无实。
此既经国所先，外可议其人，人定，便即撰次。
于是尚书仆射沈约等参议，请五礼各置旧学士一人，人各自举学士二人，相助抄撰。
其中有疑者，依前汉石渠、后汉白虎，随源以闻，请旨断决。
乃以旧学士右军记室参军明山宾掌吉礼，中军骑兵参军严植之掌凶礼，中军田曹行参军兼太常丞贺蒨掌宾礼，征虏记室参军陆琏掌军礼，右军参军司马裴掌嘉礼，尚书左丞何佟之总参其事。
佟之亡后，以镇北谘议参军伏芃代之。
后又以芃代严植之掌凶礼。
芃寻迁官，以《五经》博士缪昭掌凶礼。
复以礼仪深广，记载残缺，宜须博论，共尽其致，更使镇军将军丹阳尹沈约、太常卿张充及臣三人同参厥务。
臣又奉别敕，总知其事。
末又使中书侍郎周舍、庾于陵二人复豫参知。
若有疑义，所掌学士当职先立议，通谘五礼旧学士及参知，各言同异，条牒启闻，决之制旨。
疑事既多，岁时又积，制旨裁断，其数不少。莫不网罗经诰，玉振金声，义贯幽微，理入神契。前儒所不释，后学所未闻。
凡诸奏决，皆载篇首，具列圣旨，为不刊之则。
translation: 
The remaining texts collected at that time were handed over to Cai Zhongtai, Zuocheng, Shangshu, and He Tongzhi, general He Tongzhi, who were jointly in charge of this matter.
At that time, the Xiu Li Bureau lived outside the gate of Guozixue Middle School. During the reign of Shuhun Hou, there were successive wars and fires, and more than half of the items were lost.
In the first year of Tianjian, Tong Zhiqi reviewed and approved the deletion of public institutions and ordered the foreign government to discuss it in detail.
At that time, Shishu participated in the discussion and thought that the world had just changed and various affairs had just begun. We should wait until peace and slowly discuss the deletion and revision of etiquette. He wanted to temporarily omit the repair of the etiquette bureau and return it to Shangshu Yicao.
Shao Shu's edict said: The etiquette and music are lacking, so each country is different and each family is different. In fact, it should be revised and approved in a timely manner as a permanent standard.
However, in recent compilations, people are hired based on emotion rather than knowledge; the people in charge are treated as noble generals and subordinates, not because of the inspection of archaeological rituals, so it cannot be completed for many years, and it is only in name but not in reality.
Since dispatching is an urgent task in governing the country, the foreign government can discuss the candidates. Once the candidates are decided, they will be compiled immediately.
So Shangshu Pushe Shen Yue and others participated in the discussion and requested that each of the five rites appoint an old scholar, and each person recommended two bachelors to assist in copying and compiling.
If there are any doubts among them, please follow the Shiqu Pavilion in the front desert, the White Tiger Temple in the back desert, and the original source to request an imperial edict for judgment.
So he appointed Ming Shanbin, a former scholar from the Right Army Record Office, to be in charge of Ji Tan, Yan Zhizhi, a member of the Chinese Army Cavalry, to be in charge of bad ceremonies, Tian Caoxing, a member of the Chinese Army and Taichang Cheng Hechang, to be in charge of guest ceremonies, Lu Lian, a member of the Zhenglu Record Office, to be in charge of military ceremonies, Sima Zhuang, a member of the Right Army Army, to be in charge of Jiali, and He Tongzhi, Zuo Cheng, the Shangshu, to be in charge of dispatching matters.
After Tong Zhi's death, he appointed Zhenbei Consultant to join the army and Fuqu to replace him.
Later, Fu Qu was appointed to take charge of the evil ceremony instead of Yan Zhi.
Fu Qu was soon transferred to an official position and appointed Miao Zhao, a doctor of the Five Classics, to be in charge of the evil ceremony.
And because the etiquette is profound and extensive, and the records are incomplete, it must be discussed extensively and agreed upon in detail. We also appointed General Danyang Yin Chenyue, Taichang Qing Zhang Chong and three of his ministers to participate in this matter.
The minister received another order to take charge of Japanese affairs.
Later, two ministers, Zhou She and Yu Yuling, were appointed to take charge.
If there is any doubt about the doctrine, the scholar in charge should first express his opinion, consult the old scholars of Wuli and those in charge, discuss their different opinions, write a memorial, and make a decision according to the imperial edict.
There are many doubtful things, accumulated over the years, and the decrees and decrees are numerous. They all include scriptures and are the masterpieces of many people. The meanings are subtle and the principles are profound and mysterious. Scholars of the previous dynasty have not explained it, and scholars of subsequent generations have never heard of it.
All rulings are recorded at the beginning of the chapter, listing the imperial decree as unchangeable principles.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
洪规盛范，冠绝百王；茂实英声，方垂千载。
宁孝宣之能拟，岂孝章之足云。
五礼之职，事有繁简，及其列毕，不得同时。
《嘉礼仪注》以天监六年五月七日上尚书，合十有二秩，一百一十六卷，五百三十六条；《宾礼仪注》以天监六年五月二十日上尚书，合十有七秩，一百三十三卷，五百四十五条；《军礼仪注》以天监九年十月二十九日上尚书，合十有八秩，一百八十九卷，二百四十条；《吉礼仪注》以天监十一年十一月十日上尚书，合二十有六秩，二百二十四卷，一千五条；《凶礼仪注》以天监十一年十一月十七日上尚书，合四十有七秩，五百一十四卷，五千六百九十三条：大凡一百二十秩，一千一百七十六卷，八千一十九条。
又列副秘阁及《五经》典书各一通，缮写校定，以普通五年二月始获洗毕。
窃以撰正履礼，历代罕就，皇明在运，厥功克成。
周代三千，举其盈数；今之八千，随事附益。
质文相变，故其数兼倍，犹如八卦之爻，因而重之，错综成六十四也。
昔文武二王，所以纲纪周室，君临天下，公旦修之，以致太平龙凤之瑞。
自斯厥后，甫备兹日。
孔子曰： 其有继周，虽百世可知。
岂所谓齐功比美者欤！
臣以庸识，谬司其任，淹留历稔，允当斯责；兼勒成之初，未遑表上，实由才轻务广，思力不周，永言惭惕，无忘寤寐。
自今春舆驾将亲六师，搜寻军礼，阅其条章，靡不该备。
所谓郁郁文哉，焕乎洋溢，信可以悬诸日月，颁之天下者矣。
愚心喜抃，弥思陈述；兼前后联官，一时皆逝，臣虽幸存，耄已将及，虑皇世大典，遂阙腾奏，不任下情，辄具载撰修始末，并职掌人、所成卷秩、条目之数，谨拜表以闻。
诏曰： 经礼大备，政典载弘，今诏有司，案以行事也。
又诏曰： 勉表如此。
因革允厘，宪章孔备，功成业定，于是乎在。
可以光被八表，施诸百代，俾万世之下，知斯文在斯。
主者其按以遵行，勿有失坠。
寻加中书令，给亲信二十人。
勉以疾自陈，求解内任。诏不许，乃令停下省，三日一朝，有事遣主书论决。
脚疾转剧，久阙朝觐，固陈求解，诏乃赉假，须疾差还省。
translation: 
The grand standards are higher than those of a hundred generations of emperors; the rich content and outstanding reputation will be passed down for thousands of years.
In what way can Emperor Xiaoxuan be compared to Emperor Xiaozhang?
The functions of the Five Rites are divided into complex and simplified matters. When the compilation is completed, they cannot be the same at the same time.
"Jia Li Zhu" was submitted to the minister on May 7, the sixth year of Tianjian, with a total of 12 letters, 116 volumes, and 536 items; "Bin Li An Zhu" was submitted to the minister on May 20, the sixth year of Tianjian, with a total of 17 letters, 133 volumes, and 545 items; "Military Ritual Notes" was submitted to the minister on October 29, the 9th year of Tianjian, with a total of 18 letters, 189 volumes, and 200 items Forty articles; "Notes on Ji Li" were submitted to the minister on November 10, the eleventh year of Tianjian, with a total of 26 letters, 224 volumes, and 1,005 articles; "Notes on Ji Li" were submitted to the minister on November 17, the eleventh year of Tianjian, with a total of 47 letters, 514 volumes, and 5,693 articles: a total of 12 letters, 1,176 volumes, and 8,019 articles.
One set of copies were also displayed in the Secret Pavilion and the "Five Classics" Office. They were copied and proofread, and were completed in February of the fifth year of the Ordinary Year.
Privately, I think that writing etiquette can rarely be completed in the past dynasties. The dynasty's national destiny is clear and it can only be completed by working hard.
The three thousand items in the Zhou Dynasty listed the full amount; the eight thousand items today list the benefits based on events.
The content and form change, and the amount is doubled, just like the Yao symbols of the Eight Diagrams, which overlap and become intricately composed of sixty-four hexagrams.
In the past, the two kings, civil and military, governed the Zhou Dynasty and ruled the world because the Duke of Zhou compiled etiquette, which brought about the auspiciousness of peace, dragon and phoenix.
Since then, it has only become complete now.
The bastard said: If there is someone who will inherit the Zhou Dynasty, it can be inferred even if it takes a hundred generations.
How can it be said that equal merit can be compared with beauty?
With mediocre knowledge, I have been in charge of the Ministry of Education for many years and have assumed this responsibility. At the beginning of my cultivation, I did not have time to submit it to the public. It is really because of my low ability and many affairs and lack of thoughtful thinking. I am ashamed and afraid to talk about it, and I cannot forget it day and night.
Since the spring of this year, the emperor has personally taken command of the Sixth Army, searching for military honors and reading regulations, and there is no detail that is not available.
The so-called literary talent is so beautiful and full of brilliance that it can actually be hung in the sun and moon and promulgated to the world.
The foolish minister was happy in his heart, and made a memorial statement. In addition, all the people who served together before and after him died in a short time. Although the minister survived, he was already old. Considering the imperial ceremony, there was no memorial, which could not satisfy the minister's wish. Therefore, he recorded in detail the beginning and end of the compilation, as well as the personnel, the volumes and the amount of entries, and respectfully submitted a report.
Shaoling said: The Book of Rites is very complete, and the political records are comprehensive. Now the relevant officials of Shaoling can act accordingly.
Shaoling also said: Xu Mian's memorial is like this.
The reform of Yinxunyu was completed, the rules and regulations were comprehensive, and the meritorious achievements were laid. It is here in Xiang.
It can shine in all directions and be implemented for a hundred generations, so that all generations will know that the ritual and music system is wrapped up.
Supervisors should follow these instructions and avoid any disappointment.
Soon after, Xu Mian was granted the title of Zhongshu Ling, and twenty of his close associates were given to him.
Because Xu Mian was ill, he made his own request and requested to be relieved of his duties in the palace. The imperial edict did not allow it, so he ordered him to live in the lower province and visit the court once every three days. If something happened, he would send a chief secretary to discuss and make a decision.
Later, the foot illness worsened and he was not seen in court for a long time. He insisted on requesting to be relieved of his position. The imperial edict granted him a vacation and he would return to the official office after he recovered.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
勉虽居显位，不营产业，家无蓄积，俸禄分赡亲族之穷乏者。
门人故旧或从容致言。
勉乃答曰： 人遗子孙以财，我遗之以清白。
子孙才也，则自致辎軿；如其不才，终为他有。
尝为书诫其子崧曰：
吾家世清廉，故常居贫素，至于产业之事，所未尝言，非直不经营而已。
薄躬遭逢，遂至今日，尊官厚禄，可谓备之。
每念叨窃若斯，岂由才致，仰藉先代风范及以福庆，故臻此耳。
古人所谓 以清白遗子孙，不亦厚乎！
又云： 遗子黄金满惣，不如一经。
详求此言，信非徒语。
吾虽不敏，实有本志，庶得遵奉斯义，不敢坠失。
所以显贵以来，将三十载，门人故旧，亟荐便宜，或使创辟田园，或劝兴立邸店，又欲舳舻运致，亦令货殖聚敛。
若此众事，皆距而不纳。
非谓拔葵去织，且欲省息纷纭。
中年聊于东田间营小园者，非在播艺，以要利入，正欲穿池种树，少寄情赏。
又以郊际闲旷，终可为宅，傥获悬车致事，实欲歌哭于斯。
慧日、十住等，既应营婚，又须住止，吾清明门宅，无相容处。
所以尔者，亦复有以；前割西边施宣武寺，既失西厢，不复方幅，意亦谓此逆旅舍耳，何事须华？
常恨时人谓是我宅。
古往今来，豪富继踵，高门甲第，连闼洞房，宛其死矣，定是谁室？
但不能不为培塿之山，聚石移果，杂以花卉，以娱休沐，用托性灵。
随便架立，不在广大，惟功德处，小以为好。
所以内中逼促，无复房宇。
近营东边儿孙二宅，乃藉十住南还之资，其中所须，犹为不少，既牵挽不至，又不可中涂而辍，郊间之园，遂不办保，货与韦黯，乃获百金，成就两宅，已消其半。
寻园价所得，何以至此？
由吾经始历年，粗已成立，桃李茂密，桐竹成阴，塍陌交通，渠畎相属，华楼迥榭，颇有临眺之美；孤峰丛薄，不无纠纷之兴。
渎中并饶菰蒋，湖里殊富芰莲。
虽云人外，城阙密迩，韦生欲之，亦雅有情趣。
追述此事，非有吝心，盖是笔势所至耳。
忆谢灵运《山家诗》云： 中为天地物，今成鄙夫有。
吾此园有之二十载矣，今为天地物，物之与我，相校几何哉！
此吾所余，今以分汝，营小田舍，亲累既多，理亦须此。
且释氏之教，以财物谓之外命；儒典亦称 何以聚人曰财 。
translation: 
Although Xu Mian is in a prominent position, he does not manage land and has no savings in his family. His salary and salary are allocated to help the poor among his relatives.
Some of my friends mentioned the incident casually.
Xu Mian then replied: Others leave their property to their descendants, but I leave my innocence to my descendants.
If the descendants are talented, they can get their own carriages and plows; if they are not talented, their property will eventually be owned by others.
I once wrote a letter to warn my son Xu Song:
My family has been clean and honest for generations, so we often live in poverty, simplicity, and self-preservation. As for the family property, we have never mentioned it. It is not just about not running the business.
To detract from my own experience, until now, I can be said to be full of high-ranking officials and generous salaries.
Whenever I think about these things in private, it is not caused by talent, but by the demeanor of the ancestors and extended to happiness and happiness, so it is just a step forward.
The ancients said, "Leave innocence to your descendants, isn't it also very rich?"
He also said: A basket full of gold left to your descendants is not as good as a single scripture.
If we explore these words in detail, they are indeed not empty words.
Although I am not smart, I really have this intention and hope to follow this principle and dare not lose it.
Therefore, for nearly thirty years since I was honored, my disciples and friends have tried their best to tell me what should be done. Some of them let me cultivate the land, and some advised me to build houses and hotels. They also wanted to use ships to transport me, so that I could do business and make money.
Things like these are rejected and not adopted.
Not only are they disinterested in pursuing interests, but they are also suggestions that want to calm down the disputes.
Later, I temporarily ran a small garden in Shutian, not to sow seeds to earn profit, but to dig a pond and plant trees for appreciation.
And because the open space in the suburbs is wide, houses can eventually be built. If I can retire and leave my job, I really want to sing and cry there.
Huiri, Shizhu and others are already getting married and need housing. My Qingmingmen residence has no room to accommodate them.
There is a reason for this. Previously, the west side was given to Xuanwu Temple. After losing the west wing, we stopped expanding it. I also thought that this is a guest residence, why should it be luxurious?
I often regret that people thought it was my residence at that time.
Throughout the ages, there have been many wealthy families, and the mansions of high-ranking families have been built one after another with indoor rooms. After his death, whose residence will it be?
It’s just that we have to build small hills, gather stones, move fruit trees, and mix flowers to provide entertainment during rest and to express our temperament.
The random accumulation does not mean that it is tall or wide, it is just a place to recite the Buddha's name, so it is better to be small.
Therefore, the area is small and there are no more houses.
The recent construction of two houses for Shubian's children and grandchildren was based on the funds returned from the south by ten people, and a lot of them were needed. Since the transportation could not arrive and could not be stopped midway, the gardens in the suburbs could not be set up. They were sold to Wei An, and only one hundred taels of gold were obtained. More than half of them were used to build the two houses.
Why is the income from selling the garden garden so high?
Because I have been in business for many years, it has been roughly built, with dense peaches and plums, shades of paulownia and bamboo, staggered fields and connected ditches. The gorgeous buildings and the high terraces and pavilions are very beautiful to climb up and overlook; the solitary peaks are covered with vegetation, which is not without the interest of overlapping and intertwining.
There are abundant water bamboos in the ditch, and there are many water chestnuts and lotus flowers in the lake.
Although there are few people there and it is very close to the city, Wei Sheng is very interesting when he thinks about it.
Recounting events is not a pity, it is just a matter of inspiration.
Recalling Xie Lingyun's "Shan Family Poetry", he said: It is a thing of heaven and earth, but today it belongs to this humble man.
I have enjoyed this garden for twenty years, and now it has become a thing of heaven and earth. Compared with me, how many things there are!
This is what I have left, and now I will share it with you to run the small farm. Since there are many relatives, this must be the case.
Moreover, Buddhist teachings refer to property as something external to the body; Confucian classics also call it "How to Gather Human Wealth".


Chunk 8: 
original: 
况汝曹常情，安得忘此。
闻汝所买姑孰田地，甚为舄卤，弥复何安。
所以如此，非物竞故也。
虽事异寝丘，聊可仿佛。
孔子曰： 居家理治，可移于官。
既已营之，宜使成立。
进退两亡，更贻耻笑。
若有所收获，汝可自分赡内外大小，宜令得所，非吾所知，又复应沾之诸女耳。
汝既居长，故有此及。
凡为人长，殊复不易，当使中外谐缉，人无间言，先物后己，然后可贵。
老生云： 后其身而身先。
若能尔者，更招巨利。
汝当自勖，见贤思齐，不宜忽略以弃日也。
非徒弃日，乃是弃身，身名美恶，岂不大哉！
可不慎欤？
今之所敕，略言此意。正谓为家已来，不事资产，既立墅舍，以乖旧业，陈其始末，无愧怀抱。
兼吾年时朽暮，心力稍殚，牵课奉公，略不克举，其中余暇，裁可自休。
或复冬日之阳，夏日之阴，良辰美景，文案间隙，负杖蹑履，逍遥陋馆，临池观鱼，披林听鸟，浊酒一杯，弹琴一曲，求数刻之暂乐，庶居常以待终，不宜复劳家间细务。
汝交关既定，此书又行，凡所资须，付给如别。
自兹以后，吾不复言及田事，汝亦勿复与吾言之。
假使尧水汤旱，吾岂知如何；若其满庾盈箱，尔之幸遇。
如斯之事，并无俟令吾知也。
《记》云： 夫孝者，善继人之志，善述人之事。
今且望汝全吾此志，则无所恨矣。
勉第二子悱卒，痛悼甚至，不欲久废王务，乃为《答客喻》。
其辞曰：
普通五年春二月丁丑，余第二息晋安内史悱丧之问至焉，举家伤悼，心情若陨。
二宫并降中使，以相慰勖，亲游宾客，毕来吊问，辄恸哭失声，悲不自已，所谓父子天性，不知涕之所从来也。
translation: 
Besides, how can you forget about your normal mood?
I heard that the land you bought the aunt's school on is very barren, so there's no peace of mind.
The reason for this is not to compete with others.
Although things are different from Qiuqiu, they are generally similar.
Confucius said: If the family is well managed, governance can be transferred to the government.
Now that it has been created, it should be completed.
A dilemma, and even more ridicule.
If you gain something, you can help the inside and outside by yourself, so that everyone can get their own place. I don’t know what to do. In addition, you should also give to a few daughters.
You are in the position of the eldest son, so speak of these things.
It is not easy to be the elder brother of others. You should be harmonious inside and outside, so that others do not gossip, and you should put others before yourself, and then you will be valuable.
Laosheng said: Be behind others but be at the forefront.
If you can do this, you will be even more profitable.
You should work hard on your own, and when you see a wise man, think of being equal to him. Don't neglect your cultivation and waste your time.
Isn’t it important to waste not only time, but also oneself? The good and evil of one’s reputation!
Can we not be cautious?
Today's teaching touches on this meaning briefly. It only talks about not engaging in increasing the value of family property since getting married, and after building a villa, violating the old family property, and telling the whole story without feeling guilty.
In addition, I am getting old and my mental energy is gradually exhausted. I am worried about pursuing official duties and it seems impossible to complete it. Only when I have the remaining free time can I rest by myself.
Or under the sunshine in winter, or in the shade of summer, with beautiful scenery, between working on copywriting, holding a cane and dragging straw sandals, relaxing in a simple building, going to the pond to watch fish, listening to the birds in the woods, drinking a glass of turbid wine, playing a piece of music, seeking a few moments of short-term entertainment, hoping to remain unchanged and wait for the end of life, and should no longer worry about small things at home.
Your handover has been confirmed, this letter has been sent, and whatever is needed will be delivered separately.
From now on, I won’t talk about the land anymore, and you shouldn’t talk to me about it anymore.
If Yao was hit by floods or drought, I don't know what to do. If grains are piled up in granaries, that is your lucky chance.
There is no need to let me know about such things.
"Book of Rites" says: The so-called filial piety means being good at inheriting the ambitions of the ancestors and being good at completing the achievements of the ancestors.
Now I hope you can fulfill my ambition and there will be no regrets.
Xu Mian's second son Xu Qiu passed away. Xu Mian was deeply saddened and did not want to neglect government affairs for a long time, so he wrote "Reply to Guests".
Its words say:
In the spring and February of the fifth year of Ding Chou, the news came that my second son Xu Qiu, the internal history of Jin'an, had passed away. The whole family was sad and mourned, and their mood felt like they were falling into the abyss.
The second palace sent envoys to express condolences, and relatives and friends came to offer condolences and greetings. I burst into tears at every turn, unable to control my grief. This is what people say is the natural tendency of father and son. I don’t know where the tears came from.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是门人虑其肆情所钟，容致委顿，乃敛衽而进曰： 仆闻古往今来，理运之常数；春荣秋落，气象之定期。
人居其间，譬诸逆旅，生寄死归，著于通论，是以深识之士，悠尔忘怀。
东门归无之旨，见称往哲；西河丧明之过，取诮友朋。
足下受遇于朝，任居端右，忧深责重，休戚是均，宜其遗情下流，止哀加饭，上存奉国，俯示隆家。
岂可纵此无益，同之儿女，伤神损识，或亏生务。
门下窃议，咸为君侯不取也。
余雪泣而答曰： 彭殇之达义，延吴之雅言，亦常闻之矣；顾所以未能弭意者，请陈其说。
夫植树阶庭，钦柯叶之茂；为山累仞，惜覆篑之功。
故秀而不实，尼父为之叹息；析彼歧路，杨子所以留连。
事有可深，圣贤靡抑。
今吾所悲，亦以悱始逾立岁，孝悌之至，自幼而长，文章之美，得之天然，好学不倦，居无尘杂，多所著述，盈帙满笥，淡然得失之际，不见喜愠之容。
及翰飞东朝，参伍盛列，其所游往，皆一时才俊，赋诗颂咏，终日忘疲。
每从容谓吾以遭逢时来，位隆任要，当应推贤下士，先物后身，然后可以报恩明主，克保元吉。
俾余二纪之中，忝窃若是，幸无大过者，繄此子之助焉。
自出闽区，政存清静，冀其旋反，少慰衰暮，言念今日，眇然长往。
加以阖棺千里之外，未知归骨之期，虽复无情之伦，庸讵不痛于昔！
夷甫孩抱中物，尚尽恸以待宾；安仁未及七旬，犹殷勤于词赋。
况夫名立宦成，半途而废者，亦焉可已已哉。
求其此怀，可谓苗实之义。
诸贤既贻格言，喻以大理，即日辍哀，命驾修职事焉。
translation: 
The people at Qingshi were worried that I would look tired and sleepy due to my excessive indulgence, so I lifted up my clothes and said: I heard that throughout the ages, this is the normal course of social evolution; the prosperity of spring and the decline of autumn are the unchanging term of the climate.
People live in it, just like travelers, who stay in the world and return home after death, chatting in the green in the enlightened discussion, so those who have profound insights forget about survival leisurely.
The purpose of shutting down the family and returning it to nothing was praised by the philosophers of the previous generation; Xihe's mistake of damaging his eyes was ridiculed by his friends.
I have been well-received in the imperial court, my position is at the top of the Shangshu Province, I have deep sorrows and heavy responsibilities, and I share weal and woe with the emperor. I should put aside my emotions, stop mourning and increase my food intake, with the heart of respecting the country at the top and the prosperity of the family at the bottom.
How can we indulge in this useless sorrow, just like a child, damaging our spiritual awareness, and even harming people's affairs?
The disciples discussed privately, and they all felt that the prince was unworthy of him.
With tears in my eyes, I replied: "I have heard Peng Zu's understanding of death and Yan Wu's elegant and upright words. The reason why I have not eliminated the thought of life and death, please let me state my thoughts."
Plant trees in the courtyard and rejoice in the luxuriant branches and leaves; build hills to the height of several feet and cherish the effort of accumulating small ones into big ones.
Therefore, the nun's father sighed because the ears blossomed but did not bear fruit; Yang Zi hesitated because of the different paths.
Things may go deeper, and sages cannot stop them.
What I am sad about now is also because Tu Qiu has just turned 30. He was extremely filial and friendly. From childhood to adulthood, the beauty of his articles came from his natural temperament. He was studious and tireless. His residence was free of dust and clutter. He wrote many books and filled his bookcase. He seemed indifferent when he had gains and losses, and his joy and anger were indifferent.
When he took office in Shu Palace, he had many colleagues, and the people he interacted with were all the talents of the time. He wrote poems and eulogized them, which made him forget his fatigue.
I often casually say that when I encounter good fortune, I have a high position and heavy responsibilities. I should recommend wise and respectful scholars, put others before myself, and then I can repay the kindness of the wise monarch and ensure good fortune.
The only reason why I have been able to hold such an important position for more than twenty years without making any major mistakes is due to the help of my son.
Ever since he left for the Minshan area, he has maintained a clear and tolerant attitude toward political affairs. I hope he will return and comfort me, old man, a little bit. However, he is far away now.
In addition, the coffin is covered thousands of miles away, and there is no telling when the bones will return. Even a ruthless person, how can he not feel sad in the past!
Wang Yifu was still a child, but he was still grieving to receive guests; Pan Anren was not yet seventy years old, but he was still writing poems and poems with sincerity.
What's more, if you have already entered the official career after establishing a reputation, how can you have peace of mind if it is stopped midway?
It can be said that pushing for seeking and sending one's mind means the fruit of the crops.
Since all the sages have given you some words that can be used as guidelines and enlightened by great principles, you should stop mourning today and order your vehicles to perform your duties.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
中大通三年，又以疾自陈，移授特进、右光禄大夫、侍中、中卫将军，置佐史，余如故。
增亲信四十人。
两宫参问，冠盖结辙；服膳医药，皆资天府。
有敕每欲临幸，勉以拜伏有亏，频启停出，诏许之，遂停舆驾。
大同元年，卒，时年七十。
高祖闻而流涕，即日车驾临殡，乃诏赠特进、右光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，余并如故。
给东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭。
赠钱二十万，布百匹。
皇太子亦举哀朝堂。
谥曰简肃公。
勉善属文，勤著述，虽当机务，下笔不休。
尝以起居注烦杂，乃加删撰为《别起居注》六百卷；《左丞弹事》五卷；在选曹，撰《选品》五卷；齐时，撰《太庙祝文》二卷；以孔释二教殊途同归，撰《会林》五十卷。
凡所著前后二集四十五卷，又为《妇人集》十卷，皆行于世。
大同三年，故佐史尚书左丞刘览等诣阙陈勉行状，请刊石纪德，即降诏许立碑于墓云。
悱字敬业，幼聪敏，能属文。
起家著作佐郎，转太子舍人，掌书记之任。
累迁洗马、中舍人，犹管书记。
出入宫坊者历稔，以足疾出为湘东王友，迁晋安内史。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：徐勉少而厉志忘食，发愤修身，慎言行，择交游；加运属兴王，依光日月，故能明经术以绾青紫，出闾阎而取卿相。
及居重任，竭诚事主，动师古始，依则先王，提衡端轨，物无异议，为梁宗臣，盛矣。
translation: 
In the third year of Zhongdatong, due to illness, he stated his own requirements and was granted the title of Tejin, Youguanglu, Shizhong, Zhongwei General, and auxiliary staff were set up. The rest remained as usual.
Added forty confidants.
The two palaces expressed condolences, and officials and vehicles connected with each other; food and medicine were all provided by the palace treasury.
Every time the emperor wanted to go there due to an order, Xu Mian frequently asked the emperor to stop leaving the palace because he could not complete the ceremony of prostrating himself on the ground. The edict allowed the emperor to stay in the palace.
In the first year of Datong, Xu Mian passed away at the age of seventy.
When Emperor Gaozu heard about it, he shed tears and took a car to the funeral home that day. So he sent a posthumous gift to Tejin, Dr. Youguanglu, and Kaifu Yitong in Xia Shao. The rest remained as before.
He was given a coffin, a set of robes, and a set of clothes.
Two hundred thousand coins and one hundred pieces of cloth were given as gifts.
The crown prince also held a funeral in the court hall.
Mi's nickname is Jian Sugong.
Xu Mian was good at writing articles and diligent in writing. Although he was in a confidential position, he never stopped writing.
Because the notes on daily life were complicated, they were edited and edited into six hundred volumes of "Notes on Living Things"; five volumes of "Tanshi of Zuo Cheng"; five volumes of "Selections" were written in the department of selecting officials; two volumes of "Blessings to the Imperial Ancestral Temple" were written in the Qi Dynasty; because Confucius and Buddhism achieved the same goal through different channels, fifty volumes of "Huilin" were written.
He wrote a total of 45 volumes in two volumes before and after, and also wrote "Women's Collection" in ten volumes, all of which are popular in the world.
In the third year of Datong, the former Zuocheng Liu Lan and others went to the court to report Xu Mian's conduct and achievements, and requested that a monument be engraved to record his merits. They immediately agreed to erect a monument in the cemetery.
Xu Qiu is a dedicated person, smart since he was a child, and able to write articles.
He became an official as Zuo Lang and was appointed as Prince Sheren, responsible for the responsibilities of document recording.
After being promoted many times to Xima and Zhongshe, he was still in charge of document records.
He had been in and out of the prince's palace for many years. Due to a foot disease, he was appointed as King You of Crocodile and was transferred to the internal history of Jin'an.
Chen Libu Shangshu fled the fortress and said: When Xu Mian was young, he sharpened his ambitions and forgot about food, worked hard to cultivate his body and mind, was careful in his words and deeds, and chose friends. In addition, when he encountered the fortune of the rise of the king, he relied on the light of the sun and the moon, so he was able to gain a high position because of his knowledge of the classics, and was appointed as a minister in the palace.
When he is in an important position, he serves the monarch wholeheartedly, follows the example of the ancients, follows the principles of the previous emperors, and is in charge of the court's laws. People have no objection. He is a minister respected by the people of Liang Dynasty and has a great reputation.


