Chunk 0: 
original: 
南越王尉佗者，真定人也，姓赵氏。
秦时已并天下，略定杨越，置桂林、南海、象郡，以谪徙民，与越杂处十三岁。
佗，秦时用为南海龙川令。
至二世时，南海尉任嚣病且死，召龙川令赵佗语曰： 闻陈胜等作乱，秦为无道，天下苦之，项羽、刘季、陈胜、吴广等州郡各共兴军聚众，虎争天下，中国扰乱，未知所安，豪杰畔秦相立。
南海僻远，吾恐盗兵侵地至此，吾欲兴兵绝新道，自备，待诸侯变，会病甚。
且番禺负山险，阻南海，东西数千里，颇有中国人相辅，此亦一州之主也，可以立国。
郡中长吏无足与言者，故召公告之。
即被佗书，行南海尉事。
嚣死，佗即移檄告横浦、阳山、湟谿关曰： 盗兵且至，急绝道聚兵自守！
因稍以法诛秦所置长吏，以其党为假守。
秦已破灭，佗即击并桂林、象郡，自立为南越武王。
高帝已定天下，为中国劳苦，故释佗弗诛。
汉十一年，遣陆贾因立佗为南越王，与剖符通使，和集百越，毋为南边患害，与长沙接境。
高后时，有司请禁南越关市铁器。
佗曰： 高帝立我，通使物，今高后听谗臣，别异蛮夷，隔绝器物，此必长沙王计也，欲倚中国，击灭南越而并王之，自为功也。
於是佗乃自尊号为南越武帝，发兵攻长沙边邑，败数县而去焉。
translation: 
The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo, was from Zhending and his surname was Zhao.
The Qin State annexed the six countries, captured and pacified Yang Yue, established Guilin, Nanhai and Xiangjun, and resettled the people who had committed crimes and migrated to these places, and lived together with the Yue people for thirteen years.
Wei Tuo was appointed as the magistrate of Longchuan County in Nanhai County during the Qin Dynasty.
During the second year of Qin Dynasty, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned Zhao Tuo, the commander of Longchuan, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others had launched a rebellion, and that the Qin Dynasty was pursuing cruel and unjust policies, and the people of the world were resentful of this. Xiang Yu, Liu Bang, Chen Sheng, Wu Guang, etc. all gathered people in their respective states and counties at the same time, formed armies, and fought for the world like tigers. The Central Plains region was in turmoil, and it was unknown when peace would be restored. Heroes betrayed the Qin Dynasty and opposed each other.
Nanhai County is remote and remote, and I am afraid that the bandit army will invade the land. When I attack here, I want to mobilize the army to cut off the newly built road to the Central Plains. I have taken precautions in advance and wait for the changes in the princes. It happens that I am seriously ill.
Let’s talk about Panyu. There are dangerous mountains behind us to rely on, and there is the sea as a barrier to the south. It is thousands of miles away from east to west. We have some Central Plains people to assist us. We can also be the lord of a state and establish a country.
There is no one among the governors of Nanhai County who is worthy of me to study these things with him, so I have summoned you to tell you these things.
Ren Xiao immediately issued an appointment document to Zhao Tuo, asking him to act on behalf of Nanhai County.
After Ren Xiao died, Zhao Tuo sent a message to Hengpu, Yangshan, and Huangxiguan, saying: The bandit army is coming, so we must quickly cut off the road, gather the army, and defend ourselves.
Zhao Tuo took this opportunity to gradually use the law to kill the officials installed by the Qin Dynasty, and use his cronies as acting governors.
After the Qin Dynasty was destroyed, Zhao Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin and Xiangjun, and established himself as King Wu of South Vietnam.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already pacified the world. Because the people in the Central Plains were tired and miserable, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty spared Zhao Tuo and did not kill him.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he sent Lu Jia to South Vietnam and ordered Zhao Tuo to inherit his title of King of South Vietnam, make an agreement with him, exchange envoys, and let him coordinate Baiyue so that they can live in harmony and not become a scourge to the south of the Han Dynasty. South Vietnam borders Changsha to the north.
During the post-Gao period, officials from relevant departments requested that South Vietnam be prohibited from purchasing ironware in border markets.
Zhao Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of South Vietnam, and the two sides exchanged envoys and supplies. Now Gao Hou listens to the opinions of the slanderers, treats the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the source of the artifacts we need. This must be the idea of ​​King Changsha. He wants to follow the Han Dynasty in the Central Plains, eliminate South Vietnam, double as the king of South Vietnam, and establish his own merits.
So Zhao Tuo took advantage of the title and called himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue. He sent troops to attack the border cities of Changsha and defeated several counties before leaving.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
高后遣将军隆虑侯灶往击之。
会暑湿，士卒大疫，兵不能逾岭。
岁馀，高后崩，即罢兵。
佗因此以兵威边，财物赂遗闽越、西瓯、骆，役属焉，东西万馀里。
乃乘黄屋左纛，称制，与中国侔。
及孝文帝元年，初镇抚天下，使告诸侯四夷从代来即位意，喻盛德焉。
乃为佗亲冢在真定，置守邑，岁时奉祀。召其从昆弟，尊官厚赐宠之。
诏丞相陈平等举可使南越者，平言好畤陆贾，先帝时习使南越。
乃召贾以为太中大夫，往使。因让佗自立为帝，曾无一介之使报者。
陆贾至南越，王甚恐，为书谢，称曰： 蛮夷大长老夫臣佗，前日高后隔异南越，窃疑长沙王谗臣，又遥闻高后尽诛佗宗族，掘烧先人冢，以故自弃，犯长沙边境。
且南方卑湿，蛮夷中间，其东闽越千人众号称王，其西瓯骆裸国亦称王。
老臣妄窃帝号，聊以自娱，岂敢以闻天王哉！
乃顿首谢，原长为籓臣，奉贡职。
於是乃下令国中曰： 吾闻两雄不俱立，两贤不并世。
皇帝，贤天子也。自今以後，去帝制黄屋左纛。
陆贾还报，孝文帝大说。
遂至孝景时，称臣，使人朝请。
然南越其居国窃如故号名，其使天子，称王朝命如诸侯。
至建元四年卒。
佗孙胡为南越王。
translation: 
Empress Gao sent General Longlu Hou Zhou Zao to attack Zhao Tuo.
In the hot and humid climate, most of the soldiers became seriously ill, making it impossible for the army to cross Yangshan Mountains.
More than a year later, Queen Gao died, and the Han army stopped attacking.
Therefore, Zhao Tuo relied on his army to show off his power on the border, and bribed Minyue, Xiou and Luoyue with property to make them all belong to South Vietnam, making his territory more than 10,000 miles long from east to west.
Zhao Tuo actually rode in Huangwu Zuohu's chariot and issued orders as the emperor, which was equal to the status of the Han Dynasty.
In the first year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, when the emperor had just ruled the world, he sent envoys to the princes and the rulers of the barbarians from all over the world to inform them of his intention to come to Beijing from Dai to ascend the throne, and to let them know the emperor's saintly virtues.
So for the tomb of Zhao Tuo's parents in Zhending, a tomb guard was set up, and sacrifices were held on time every year. His cousins ​​were also summoned, and they were given honorable official positions and generous rewards to show their favor.
The emperor ordered Prime Minister Chen Ping to recommend people who could be sent as envoys to South Vietnam. Chen Ping said that Lu Jia, a native of Haochou, had served as envoys to South Vietnam many times during the late emperor's reign.
The emperor summoned Lu Jia, appointed him Taizhong doctor, and went to South Vietnam as an envoy. He took the opportunity to blame Zhao Tuo for proclaiming himself emperor and not sending an envoy to report to the emperor.
When Lu Jia arrived in South Vietnam, the South Vietnamese king Zhao was particularly frightened and wrote an apology to the emperor, saying: The barbarian chief husband Chen Tuo used to isolate and discriminate against South Vietnam. I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was a slanderous minister. I also heard in this distant place that the high queen killed Zhao Tuo's clan and dug and burned the graves of his ancestors. Therefore, he abandoned himself and invaded the border area of ​​​​Changsha.
Moreover, in the low and humid land in the south, among the barbarians, Minyue in the east only had thousands of people, but they called their ruler king; in the west, naked countries like Xiou and Luoyue also had to call themselves kings.
So I arrogantly stole the emperor's title to comfort myself. How dare I report this to the emperor!
Zhao Tuo kowtowed deeply and apologized, saying that he would remain a vassal minister of the Han Dynasty for a long time and abide by his duty to pay tribute to the emperor.
So Zhao Tuo issued an order to the whole country, saying: I heard that two heroes cannot coexist, and two sages cannot live together in the same world.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor. From now on, I will get rid of the imperial system and will no longer ride in Huangwu Zuohu's car.
Lu Jia returned to Beijing to report the matter, and Emperor Wen of Han was very happy.
Continuing to the era of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Tuo professed his vassalage to the Han Dynasty and sent people to Chang'an to meet the emperor in the spring and autumn.
However, in South Vietnam, Zhao Tuo always stole the title of emperor. He only became king when he sent envoys to meet the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders just like the princes.
In the fourth year of Jianyuan, Zhao Tuo died.
Zhao Tuo's grandson Zhao Hu became the king of South Vietnam.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
此时闽越王郢兴兵击南越边邑，胡使人上书曰： 两越俱为籓臣，毋得擅兴兵相攻击。
今闽越兴兵侵臣，臣不敢兴兵，唯天子诏之。
於是天子多南越义，守职约，为兴师，遣两将军往讨闽越。
兵未逾岭，闽越王弟馀善杀郢以降，於是罢兵。
天子使庄助往谕意南越王，胡顿首曰： 天子乃为臣兴兵讨闽越，死无以报德！
遣太子婴齐入宿卫。
谓助曰： 国新被寇，使者行矣。
胡方日夜装入见天子。
助去後，其大臣谏胡曰： 汉兴兵诛郢，亦行以惊动南越。
且先王昔言，事天子期无失礼，要之不可以说好语入见。
入见则不得复归，亡国之势也。
於是胡称病，竟不入见。
後十馀岁，胡实病甚，太子婴齐请归。
胡薨，谥为文王。
婴齐代立，即藏其先武帝玺。
婴齐其入宿卫在长安时，取邯郸樛氏女，生子兴。
及即位，上书请立樛氏女为后，兴为嗣。
汉数使使者风谕婴齐，婴齐尚乐擅杀生自恣，惧入见要用汉法，比内诸侯，固称病，遂不入见。遣子次公入宿卫。
婴齐薨，谥为明王。
太子兴代立，其母为太后。
太后自未为婴齐姬时，尝与霸陵人安国少季通。
及婴齐薨後，元鼎四年，汉使安国少季往谕王、王太后以入朝，比内诸侯；令辩士谏大夫终军等宣其辞，勇士魏臣等辅其缺，卫尉路博德将兵屯桂阳，待使者。
translation: 
At this time, King Ying of Minyue launched a war to attack the border towns of South Vietnam. Zhao Hu sent people to write to the Emperor of Han, saying: South Vietnam and Minyue are both vassals of the Han Dynasty and cannot send troops to attack each other without permission.
Now that Fujian and Yue have invaded me, I dare not send troops to fight. I hope that the emperor will issue an edict to deal with this matter.
So the emperor praised the South Vietnamese for their loyal behavior and abiding by their duties and covenants, sent troops for them, and sent two generals to attack Minyue.
Before the Han army crossed the Yangshan Mountains, Yu Shan, the younger brother of the King of Minyue, killed Ying and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, thus stopping the crusade.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty sent Zhuang Zhu to explain the court's intentions to the King of Nanyue. Zhao Hu kowtowed deeply and said: The emperor sent troops to attack Fujian and Yue for me. Even if I die, I can't repay the emperor's kindness!
Zhao Hu sent Prince Yingqi to the court to serve as a bodyguard.
He then said to Zhuang Zhu: The country has just been invaded by the enemy. Please leave first.
Zhao Hu was preparing his bags day and night to go to the capital to meet the emperor.
After Zhuang Zhu left, his ministers admonished Zhao Hujin and said: The Han Dynasty sent troops to kill Ying, and they also used this action to warn South Vietnam.
Moreover, the late king once said in the past that when serving the emperor, one only hopes not to be rude. The most important thing is not to go to the emperor just because you like to listen to the good words of the messenger.
If you go to court to see the emperor, you will not be able to come back. This is a situation of national subjugation.
So Zhao Hu used illness as an excuse and did not go to see the Emperor of Han in the end.
More than ten years later, Zhao Huzhen became seriously ill, and Prince Yingqi asked to return to the country.
When Zhao Hu died, he was given the posthumous title of King Wen.
After Ying Qi Dai was established as the King of Nanyue, he hid the seal of Emperor Wu of his ancestor.
When Yingqi went to Chang'an to serve as a guard, he took a daughter from Handan's family as his wife and gave birth to a son named Zhao Xing.
When he ascended the throne and became king, he wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, requesting that his wife Xi be made the queen and Zhao Xing be the prince.
The Han Dynasty repeatedly sent envoys to tactfully advise Ying Qi to go to the emperor. Ying Qi liked to kill people arbitrarily and was afraid that if he went to the capital to worship the emperor, he would be forced to follow the laws of the mainland and implement the laws of the Han Dynasty. Therefore, he used illness as an excuse to not go to the emperor and only sent his son Cigong to the capital to serve as a guard.
When Yingqi died, he was given the posthumous title of King Ming.
Prince Zhao Xingdai was established as the King of Nanyue, and his mother became the Queen Mother.
When the Queen Mother was not married to Yingqi as her concubine, she had committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji, a native of Baling.
After Yingqi's death, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to go to Beijing to worship the emperor like the princes in the interior. He ordered the debaters to admonish the official Zhongjun and others to publicize this idea, and asked the warrior Wei Chen and others to assist him where they were insufficient. Guard Lu Bode led his troops to garrison in Guiyang, waiting for the envoy.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
王年少，太后中国人也，尝与安国少季通，其使复私焉。
国人颇知之，多不附太后。
太后恐乱起，亦欲倚汉威，数劝王及群臣求内属。
即因使者上书，请比内诸侯，三岁一朝，除边关。
於是天子许之，赐其丞相吕嘉银印，及内史、中尉、太傅印，馀得自置。
除其故黥劓刑，用汉法，比内诸侯。
使者皆留填抚之。
王、王太后饬治行装重赍，为入朝具。
其相吕嘉年长矣，相三王，宗族官仕为长吏者七十馀人，男尽尚王女，女尽嫁王子兄弟宗室，及苍梧秦王有连。
其居国中甚重，越人信之，多为耳目者，得众心愈於王。
王之上书，数谏止王，王弗听。
有畔心，数称病不见汉使者。
使者皆注意嘉，势未能诛。
王、王太后亦恐嘉等先事发，乃置酒，介汉使者权，谋诛嘉等。
使者皆东乡，太后南乡，王北乡，相嘉、大臣皆西乡，侍坐饮。
嘉弟为将，将卒居宫外。
酒行，太后谓嘉曰： 南越内属，国之利也，而相君苦不便者，何也？
以激怒使者。
使者狐疑相杖，遂莫敢发。
嘉见耳目非是，即起而出。
太后怒，欲鏦嘉以矛，王止太后。
嘉遂出，分其弟兵就舍，称病，不肯见王及使者。
乃阴与大臣作乱。
王素无意诛嘉，嘉知之，以故数月不发。
太后有淫行，国人不附，欲独诛嘉等，力又不能。
天子闻嘉不听王，王、王太后弱孤不能制，使者怯无决。
translation: 
The King of Nanyue is young, and the Queen Mother is from the Central Plains. She once committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji. This time Anguo Shaoji came to serve as an envoy and committed adultery with her again.
Most people in South Vietnam knew about this, and most of them did not rely on the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was afraid of unrest and wanted to rely on the power of the Han Dynasty. She repeatedly persuaded the King of Nanyue and his ministers to request to belong to the Han Dynasty.
So he sent a letter to the emperor through an envoy, requesting that the princes in the interior should meet with the emperor once every three years and remove the border barriers.
So the emperor agreed to their request and gave the silver seal to Lu Jia, the prime minister of South Vietnam, and also gave the official seals such as internal history, lieutenant, and master, and the rest of the official positions were placed by South Vietnam himself.
They abolished their previous punishments of tattoos and torture, and used the laws of the Han Dynasty to compare with the princes in the interior.
The envoys stayed to pacify South Vietnam.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother packed their belongings and valuables in preparation for going to Beijing to meet the Emperor.
Lu Jia, the prime minister of South Vietnam, was very old and had assisted three kings. There were more than 70 officials and officials in his clan. The men all married the princess's wives, and the women married the princes and their brothers' clan members. They were related by marriage to the King of Qin in Cangwu County.
His position in South Vietnam is very prominent, and the South Vietnamese people trust him. Many people have become his cronies, surpassing the King of South Vietnam in terms of popular support.
The King of Nanyue wanted to write to the emperor. He repeatedly suggested that the king give up this move, but the King of Nanyue did not listen.
He had the idea of ​​​​treason against the King of Nanyue, and repeatedly excused himself from meeting the Han Dynasty envoys due to illness.
The envoys paid great attention to Lu Jia's words and deeds, but due to the situation, they did not execute Lu Jia.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia would be the first to attack, so they arranged a banquet and planned to use the power of the Han Dynasty envoys to kill Lu Jia and others.
At the banquet, the envoys all faced east, the Queen Mother faced south, the king faced north, and Prime Minister Lu Jia and the ministers all faced west, sitting and drinking with them.
Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led his troops to wait outside the palace.
While drinking, the Queen Mother said to Lu Jia: It is in the interests of the country that South Vietnam belongs to the Han Dynasty, but Prime Minister, you complain that this is not good. Why?
The Queen Mother wanted to anger the Han Dynasty envoy.
The envoy hesitated and did not dare to kill Lu Jia.
Lu Jia saw that the people around him were not his cronies, so he stood up and walked out.
The queen mother got angry and wanted to hit Lu Jia with a spear, but the king stopped her.
Lu Jia went out, divided some of his brother's soldiers, and arranged them around his residence. He refused to meet the king and the envoy because of his illness.
Lu Jia secretly prepared to launch a rebellion with his ministers.
The King of Nanyue had no intention of killing Lu Jia. Lu Jia knew this, so he did not launch a rebellion for several months.
The Queen Mother had engaged in promiscuous behavior and no one in the South Vietnam country would join her. She wanted to kill Lu Jia alone, but she was unable to do it.
The Emperor heard that Lu Jia disobeyed the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were weak and could not control Lu Jia, and the envoys were timid and incapable of decision-making.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
又以为王、王太后已附汉，独吕嘉为乱，不足以兴兵，欲使庄参以二千人往使。
参曰： 以好往，数人足矣；以武往，二千人无足以为也。
辞不可，天子罢参也。
郏壮士故济北相韩千秋奋曰： 以区区之越，又有王、太后应，独相吕嘉为害，原得勇士二百人，必斩嘉以报。
於是天子遣千秋与王太后弟樛乐将二千人往，入越境。
吕嘉等乃遂反，下令国中曰： 王年少。太后，中国人也，又与使者乱，专欲内属，尽持先王宝器入献天子以自媚，多从人，行至长安，虏卖以为僮仆。
取自脱一时之利，无顾赵氏社稷，为万世虑计之意。
乃与其弟将卒攻杀王、太后及汉使者。
遣人告苍梧秦王及其诸郡县，立明王长男越妻子术阳侯建德为王。
而韩千秋兵入，破数小邑。
其後越直开道给食，未至番禺四十里，越以兵击千秋等，遂灭之。
使人函封汉使者节置塞上，好为谩辞谢罪，发兵守要害处。
於是天子曰： 韩千秋虽无成功，亦军锋之冠。
封其子延年为成安侯。
樛乐，其姊为王太后，首原属汉，封其子广德为龙亢侯。
乃下赦曰： 天子微，诸侯力政，讥臣不讨贼。
今吕嘉、建德等反，自立晏如，令罪人及江淮以南楼船十万师往讨之。
translation: 
He also believed that the king and the queen mother had surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and Lu Jia was the only one causing trouble, so it was not worth sending troops. He wanted to send Zhuang Shen and 2,000 people as an envoy to South Vietnam.
Zhuang Shen said: If we go for friendly negotiations, a few people will be enough; if we go for violence, two thousand people can't do much.
Zhuang Shen refused to go, so the emperor dismissed Zhuang Shen from his position.
Han Qianqiu, a strong man from Jiadi and the prime minister of the former King of Jibei, said: "For such a small South Vietnam, the King of South Vietnam and the Queen Mother are acting as internal agents, and only Prime Minister Lu Jia can destroy it. I am willing to get 200 warriors to go to South Vietnam. I will definitely kill Lu Jia and report to the emperor when I come back."
So the emperor sent Han Qianqiu and the Queen Mother's younger brother Zhen Le to lead 2,000 troops to South Vietnam.
They entered South Vietnam, and the people of Lu Jia finally rebelled and issued an order to the people of South Vietnam: The king is young, the queen mother is Chinese, and she had an affair with the envoys of the Han Dynasty. She wanted to belong to the Han Dynasty. She took all the treasures and valuables of the late king and presented them to the Han emperor to flatter the Han emperor. He took many of his followers with him, went to Chang'an, and sold them to the Han people as servants.
She only wanted to gain the temporary benefits of her escape, and did not take into account the Zhao family's national power, nor did she intend to plan for the permanent plan for future generations.
So Lu Jia and his brother led troops to attack and kill the King of Nanyue, the Queen Mother and the Han Dynasty envoy.
He also sent people to inform King Cangwu of Qin and officials in various counties and counties that Shuyanghou Zhao Jiande, the son of King Ming's eldest son and his wife of South Vietnamese nationality, would be the King of South Vietnam.
At this time, Han Qianqiu's army entered South Vietnam and captured several small towns.
After that, the South Vietnamese simply moved out of the way and provided food and drink, allowing Han Qianqiu's army to advance smoothly. When they reached a place forty miles away from Panyu, the South Vietnamese attacked Han Qianqiu and others with troops, and wiped them all out.
Lu Jia had the Han Dynasty envoy's talisman packed in a wooden box, sealed it, placed it on the border fortress, said some nice and deceptive words to apologize to the Han Dynasty, and at the same time sent troops to guard key places.
So the emperor said: Although Han Qianqiu did not succeed, he was still worthy of being a pioneer among soldiers.
The emperor granted Han Qianqiu's son Han Yannian the title of Marquis of Cheng'an.
Zun Le, his sister was the Queen Mother, she was first willing to belong to the Han Dynasty, so Zun Le's son Guangde was granted the title of Longkanghou.
The emperor issued an edict of pardon and said: "The emperor is declining and the princes are trying their best to conquer the traitors. People will ridicule the ministers for not knowing how to punish the traitors."
Now Lu Jia, Zhao Jiande and others have rebelled, and they can safely proclaim themselves kings. I ordered the criminals and the sailors south of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, a total of 100,000 people, to attack them.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
元鼎五年秋，卫尉路博德为伏波将军，出桂阳，下汇水；主爵都尉杨仆为楼船将军，出豫章，下横浦；故归义越侯二人为戈船、下厉将军，出零陵，或下离水，或柢苍梧；使驰义侯因巴蜀罪人，发夜郎兵，下牂柯江：咸会番禺。
元鼎六年冬，楼船将军将精卒先陷寻陕，破石门，得越船粟，因推而前，挫越锋，以数万人待伏波。
伏波将军将罪人，道远，会期後，与楼船会乃有千馀人，遂俱进。
楼船居前，至番禺。
建德、嘉皆城守。
楼船自择便处，居东南面；伏波居西北面。
会暮，楼船攻败越人，纵火烧城。
越素闻伏波名，日暮，不知其兵多少。
伏波乃为营，遣使者招降者，赐印，复纵令相招。
楼船力攻烧敌，反驱而入伏波营中。
犁旦，城中皆降伏波。
吕嘉、建德已夜与其属数百人亡入海，以船西去。
伏波又因问所得降者贵人，以知吕嘉所之，遣人追之。
以其故校尉司马苏弘得建德，封为海常侯；越郎都稽得嘉，封为临蔡侯。
苍梧王赵光者，越王同姓，闻汉兵至，及越揭阳令定自定属汉；越桂林监居翁谕瓯骆属汉：皆得为侯。
戈船、下厉将军兵及驰义侯所发夜郎兵未下，南越已平矣。
遂为九郡。
伏波将军益封。楼船将军兵以陷坚为将梁侯。
自尉佗初王後，五世九十三岁而国亡焉。
太史公曰：尉佗之王，本由任嚣。
遭汉初定，列为诸侯。
隆虑离湿疫，佗得以益骄。
translation: 
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Ding, Weiwei Lu Bode became General Fubo and led his troops out of Guiyang and went straight down to the Huishui River; Lieutenant Yang Pu, the Lord Commander, became the general of the building and ship, left Yuzhang and went straight down to Hengpu; two people who had returned to the Han Dynasty and were made marquises A South Vietnamese man became General Ge Chuan and General Xia Li and led his troops out of Lingling. Then one army went straight to Lishui and the other to Cangwu. He asked Chiyihou to use the sinners of Bashu to mobilize Yelang's soldiers and go straight to the Zoke River. In the end, they all met up in Panyu.
In the winter of the sixth year of Yuanding, General Lou Chuan led his elite troops to first capture Xunshan, then broke through Shimen, paid the warships and grain of South Vietnam, took the opportunity to advance forward, defeated the vanguard of South Vietnam, and led tens of thousands of troops to wait for General Fubo.
General Fubo led the pardoned sinners. The road was far away, and the date of rendezvous happened to be missed. Therefore, only more than a thousand people joined General Louchuan, so they moved forward together.
General Lou Chuan was in front and fought straight to Panyu.
Zhao Jiande and Lu Jia were both defending in the city.
General Louchuan chose a favorable place to garrison in the southeast of Panyu; General Fubo garrisoned in the northwest of Panyu.
Just when it was dark, General Lou Chuan attacked and defeated the South Vietnamese and set fire to Panyu City.
The South Vietnamese have heard the name of General Fubo in normal times, but now that it's dark, they don't know how many troops he has.
General Fubo set up camp, sent envoys to summon those who surrendered, gave them official seals, and then sent them back to recruit others.
General Lou Chuan fought hard and burned the enemy, but drove the rebels into General Fubo's camp to surrender.
At dawn, all the enemy soldiers in the city surrendered to General Fubo.
Lu Jia and Zhao Jiande had fled into the sea with hundreds of their subordinates at night and took a boat to the west.
General Fubo took the opportunity to ask the South Vietnamese nobles who had surrendered, and then he knew Lu Jia's whereabouts and sent people to hunt him down.
Su Hong, a former school captain who is now an officer of General Fubo, captured Zhao Jiande and was named Chang Haihou; Nanyue native Lang Guan Duji captured Lu Jia and was named Lincai Marquis.
Zhao Guang, King of Cangwu, had the same surname as the King of Nanyue. Hearing that the Han Dynasty troops had arrived, the Jieyang County magistrate named Ding of Nanyue decided to join the Han Dynasty. Weng, the governor of Guilin County in Nanyue, informed Ou Luo to surrender to the Han Dynasty. They were all sealed.
Before the troops of General Ge Chuan and General Xia Li, as well as the Yelang army so called mobilized by Marquis Chiyi, had arrived, South Vietnam had been pacified.
So the Han Dynasty established nine counties here.
General Fubo increased the number of fiefs, and General Louchuan's army broke through the enemy's strong defense, so he was granted the title of General Lianghou.
After Zhao Tuo first became king, the Kingdom of Nanyue was destroyed for five generations, a total of ninety-three years.
Tai Shigong said: Wei Tuo became the king of Nanyue because of Ren Xiao's promotion and persuasion.
Just as the Han Dynasty was initially stabilized, he was made a prince.
Longluhou led his troops to attack South Vietnam. They encountered a hot and humid climate. Many of the soldiers were infected with diseases and were unable to march, which made Zhao Tuo even more proud.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
瓯骆相攻，南越动摇。
汉兵临境，婴齐入朝。
其後亡国，徵自樛女；吕嘉小忠，令佗无後。
楼船从欲，怠傲失惑；伏波困穷，智虑愈殖，因祸为福。
成败之转，譬若纠墨。
translation: 
Due to mutual attacks with Ou Luo, South Vietnam's national power was shaken.
The Han Dynasty's army pressed on the territory, and the South Vietnamese prince Yingqi had to go to Chang'an to serve as a guard.
Later, South Vietnam fell, and the sign was that Yingqi married a daughter of the Hu family. Lu Jia's small loyalty caused Zhao Tuo to cut off the heir to the throne.
The general of the building and ship indulged his desires and became lazy, arrogant, dissolute and chaotic. General Fubo's ambitions were not in his favor, and he became more and more resourceful and thoughtful, which was a blessing in disguise.
It can be seen that the transition between success and failure is as unpredictable as Jiu Mo.


