Chunk 0: 
original: 
元法僧，魏氏之支属也。
其始祖道武帝。
父钟葵，江阳王。
法僧仕魏，历光禄大夫，后为使持节、都督徐州诸军事、徐州刺史，镇彭城。
普通五年，魏室大乱，法僧遂据镇称帝，诛锄异己，立诸子为王，部署将帅，欲议匡复。
既而魏乱稍定，将讨法僧。法僧惧，乃遣使归款，请为附庸，高祖许焉，授侍中、司空，封始安郡公，邑五千户。
及魏军既逼，法僧请还朝，高祖遣中书舍人硃异迎之。
既至，甚加优宠。
时方事招携，抚悦降附，赐法僧甲第女乐及金帛，前后不可胜数。
法僧以在魏之日，久处疆埸之任，每因寇掠，杀戮甚多，求兵自卫，诏给甲仗百人，出入禁闼。
大通二年，加冠军将军。
中大通元年，转车骑将军。
四年，进太尉，领金紫光禄。
其年，立为东魏主，不行，仍授使持节、散骑常侍、骠骑大将军、开府同三司之仪、郢州刺史。
大同二年，征为侍中、太尉，领军师将军，薨，时年八十三。
二子景隆、景仲，普通中随法僧入朝。
景隆封沌阳县公，邑千户，出为持节、都督广、越、交、桂等十三州诸军事、平南将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
中大通三年，征侍中、安右将军。
四年，为征北将军、徐州刺史，封彭城王，不行，俄除侍中、度支尚书。
太清初，又为使持节、都督广、越、交、桂等十三州诸军事、征南将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史，行至雷首，遇疾卒，时年五十八。
景仲封枝江县公，邑千户，拜侍中、右卫将军。
大通三年，增封，并前为二千户，仍赐女乐一部。
translation: 
Yuan Faseng is a relative of the Wei family.
His ancestor was Emperor Daowu of the Northern Wei Dynasty.
His father, Zhong Kui, was named King of Jiangyang.
Fa Seng served as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty, serving successively as Guanglu doctor, and later as envoy Chijie, governor of Xuzhou military affairs, Xuzhou governor, and guarding Pengcheng.
In the fifth year of ordinary times, the Wei family was in chaos. Fa Seng occupied Pengcheng and proclaimed himself emperor. He punished dissidents, established various princes as kings, and arranged generals, hoping to revive the Northern Wei Dynasty.
Soon after the civil strife in the Northern Wei Dynasty was calmed down, the monks were about to attack the monks. The monks were afraid, so they sent envoys to express their submission to the Liang Dynasty and asked him to become a vassal of the Liang Dynasty. Emperor Gaozu agreed and appointed him Shizhong and Sikong.
When the Northern Wei army approached him, Fa Seng asked to return to the Liang Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Yi, a member of Zhongshushe, to greet him.
When he came to Liang Dynasty, he was extremely favored.
At that time, he was attracting people who had returned, and he was friendly to those who surrendered. He also gave the Dharma monk a house, female music, and gold and silk.
When Fa Seng was in the Northern Wei Dynasty, he had been a border guard official for a long time. Every time he invaded and plundered, he killed many people. He asked for troops to be sent for self-defense. Shao ordered him to have hundreds of guards wearing armor and weapons, and they were prohibited from entering and leaving the palace.
In the second year of Datong, he was appointed as the champion general.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was transferred to the general of chariots and cavalry.
In four years, he was promoted to Taiwei and received gold and purple light.
At that time, he was established as the lord of the Eastern Wei Dynasty, but he did not return to the Wei Dynasty. He was appointed as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, general of Hussar, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and governor of Yingzhou.
In the second year of Datong, he was recruited as Shizhong, Taiwei, and general of the army division. He died at the age of eighty-three.
The two sons, named Jinglong and Jingzhong, followed Fa Seng into the Liang Dynasty during the ordinary years.
Jinglong was granted the title of Duke of Chuanyang County, with a settlement of thousands of households, and served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Guangyue, Jiaogui and other thirteen states' military affairs, General Pingnan, General Lang of Huyue Zhonglang, and Governor of Guangzhou.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong and General Anyou.
In the fourth year, he was appointed as the General of Zhengbei and the Governor of Xuzhou, and was granted the title of King of Pengcheng.
In the early years of the Taiqing Dynasty, he also served as envoy Chijie, governor of Guangyue Jiaogui and other military forces in thirteen states, general of the southern expedition, general of Pingyue Zhonglang, and governor of Guangzhou. He traveled to Leishou and died of illness at the age of fifty-eight.
Jing Zhong was granted the title of Duke of Zhijiang County, with thousands of households living in the city, and was appointed as Shizhong and Right Guard General.
In the third year of Datong, the number of new towns was increased to 2,000 households, and a female musical instrument was also given.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
出为持节、都督广、越等十三州诸军事、宣惠将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
大同中，征侍中、左卫将军。
兄景隆后为广州刺史。
侯景作乱，以景仲元氏之族，遣信诱之，许奉为主。
景仲乃举兵，将下应景。
会西江督护陈霸先与成州刺史王怀明等起兵攻之，霸先徇其众曰： 朝廷以元景仲与贼连从，谋危社稷，今使曲江公勃为刺史，镇抚此州。
众闻之，皆弃甲而散，景仲乃自缢而死。
元树，字君立，亦魏之近属也。
祖献文帝。
父僖，咸阳王。
树仕魏为宗正卿，属尔硃荣乱，以天监八年归国，封为鄴王，邑二千户，拜散骑常侍。
普通六年，应接元法僧还朝，迁使持节、督郢、司、霍三州诸军事、云麾将军、郢州刺史，增封并前为三千户。
讨南蛮贼，平之，加散骑常侍、安西将军，又增邑五百户。
中大通二年，征侍中、镇右将军。
四年，为使持节，镇北将军，都督北讨诸军事，加鼓吹一部以伐魏，攻魏谯城，拔之。
会魏将独孤如愿来援，遂围树，城陷被执，发愤卒于魏，时年四十八。
子贞，大同中，求随魏使崔长谦至鄴葬父，还拜太子舍人。
太清初，侯景降，请元氏戚属，愿奉为主，诏封贞为咸阳王，以天子之礼遣还北，会景败而返。
元愿达，亦魏之支庶也。
祖明元帝。
父乐平王。
愿达仕魏为中书令、郢州刺史。
普通中，大军北伐，攻义阳，愿达举州献款，诏封乐平公，邑千户，赐甲第女乐。
仍出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督湘州诸军事、平南将军、湘州刺史。
中大通二年，征侍中、太中大夫、翊左将军。
大同三年，卒，时年五十七。
王神念，太原祁人也。
少好儒术，尤明内典。
仕魏起家州主簿，稍迁颍川太守，遂据郡归款。
魏军至，与家属渡江，封南城县侯，邑五百户。
顷之，除安成内史，又历武阳、宣城内史，皆著治绩。
还除太仆卿。
出为持节、都督青、冀二州诸军事、信武将军、青、冀二州刺史。
神念性刚正，所更州郡必禁止淫祠。
时青、冀州东北有石鹿山临海，先有神庙，妖巫欺惑百姓，远近祈祷，糜费极多。及神念至，便令毁撤，风俗遂改。
translation: 
He served as Chijie, governor of Guangyue and other thirteen states' military affairs, general Xuanhui, general Pingyue Zhonglang, and governor of Guangzhou.
During the Zuohui period, he was recruited as Shizhong and Zuowei General.
His elder brother Keelung also served as governor of Guangzhou.
Hou Jing started a rebellion. He thought Jing Zhong was a member of the Yuan family, so he sent an envoy to persuade him and promised to make him the leader of the country.
Jing Zhong then raised his troops to respond to Hou Jing.
At that time, Chen Baxian, the governor of Xijiang, and Wang Huaiming, the governor of Chengzhou, and others launched an army to attack Jingzhong. Baxian announced to Jingzhong's soldiers: Because the traitors of Yuan Jingzhong and Yuan have united from the north to the south and are plotting to harm the country, the imperial court has sent Xiao Bo, Duke of Qujiang, as the governor to control this state.
After hearing this, everyone abandoned their armor and dispersed. Jing Zhong hanged himself and died.
Yuanshu, whose courtesy name was Junli, was also a close relative of the Northern Wei Dynasty.
His grandfather was Emperor Xianwen.
His father Yuan Xi was granted the title of King of Xianyang.
Yuan Shu served as an official in the Wei Dynasty and served as Zong Zhengqing. At the time when Erzhu Rong was in rebellion, Yuan Shu returned to the country in the eighth year of Tianjian.
In the sixth year of ordinary life, when the Yuan Dynasty monk returned to the court, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of Ying, Si, and Huo, the three states of military affairs, the general of Yunhui, and the governor of Ying state.
After conquering the Southern Barbarians and pacifying them, he was appointed as a regular servant of the Sanqi and General of Anxi, and granted 500 additional households.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong and Zhenyou General.
In the fourth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, general of Zhenbei, and governor of Beichai military affairs, and he also added a department of advocacy. Let him attack Jiu Wei and capture Zhong Ji in Tanjian.
Dugu, the general who sent Jiuqiao at that time, came to help as he wished, so he surrounded Yuanli. The city was captured and he was arrested. He died angrily in the Northern Wei Dynasty at the age of forty-eight.
During the Datong period, Zi Yuanzhen requested to follow Cui Changqian, the Wei envoy, to Ye to bury his father. After returning, he was appointed Prince Sheren.
In the early years of Zuo Zha's reign, Baoliang surrendered and invited his relatives from far away to be the king of the country. Shao Ling made Zhen the king of Xianyang and sent him back to the north with the etiquette of the emperor. At that time, Hou Jing failed and returned.
Yuan Yuanda was also a branch of Wei Shu.
His grandfather was Emperor Ming Yuan.
His father was named King Leqian.
Yuanda served as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty, serving as Zhongshu Ling and the governor of Ying Zhao.
In ordinary years, the army went north to attack Yiyang, hoping to reach the territory of Xianzhou and submit it. He was granted the title of Duke of Leping, with a settlement of thousands of households, and was given the mansions of wealthy nobles and female musicians.
Later, he served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Xiangzhou, general Pingnan, and governor of Xiangzhou.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as Shizhong, Taizhong doctor, and Yizuo general.
In the third year of Datong, he died at the age of fifty-seven.
Wang Shennian was from Qi, Taiyuan.
When he was young, he was fond of Confucianism, especially Buddhist scriptures.
He started as an official in the Northern Wei Dynasty and served as the governor of the state. Soon he was promoted to the prefect of Yingchuan, and he took over the county and returned the money.
When the Wei army arrived, he crossed the river with his family and was granted the title of Marquis of Nancheng County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Soon after, he was appointed as the internal history of Ancheng, and successively as the internal history of Wuyang and Xuancheng, all of whom made remarkable achievements in politics.
He returned to the capital and was appointed Taipuqing.
He served as Chijie, governor of the military affairs of Qing and Ji states, general Xinwu, and governor of Qing and Ji states.
Wang Shennian has an upright temperament, and the prefectures and counties he has visited will prohibit unnecessary temples.
At that time, there was Shilu Mountain near the sea in the northeast of Qing and Jizhou. There used to be a temple. The witch deceived the people. People from far and near came to pray. There was a lot of waste. When the money came to send parcels, they ordered the temple to be demolished, and the customs changed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
普通中，大举北伐，征为右卫将军。
六年，迁使持节、散骑常侍、爪牙将军，右卫如故。
遘疾卒，时年七十五。
诏赠本官、衡州刺史，兼给鼓吹一部。
谥曰壮。
神念少善骑射，既老不衰，尝于高祖前手执二刀楯，左右交度，驰马往来，冠绝群伍。
时复有杨华者，能作惊军骑，并一时妙捷，高祖深叹赏之。
子尊业，仕至太仆卿。
卒，赠信威将军、青、冀二州刺史，鼓吹一部。
次子僧辩，别有传。
杨华，武都仇池人也。
父大眼，为魏名将。
华少有勇力，容貌雄伟，魏胡太后逼通之，华惧及祸，乃率其部曲来降。
胡太后追思之不能已，为作《杨白华歌辞》，使宫人昼夜连臂蹋足歌之，辞甚忄妻惋焉。
华后累征伐，有战功，历官太仆卿，太子左卫率，封益阳县侯。
太清中，侯景乱，华欲立志节，妻子为贼所擒，遂降之，卒于贼。
羊侃，字祖忻，泰山梁甫人，汉南阳太守续之裔也。
祖规，宋武帝之临徐州，辟祭酒从事、大中正。
会薛安都举彭城降北，规由是陷魏，魏授卫将军、营州刺史。
父祉，魏侍中，金紫光禄大夫。
侃少而瑰伟，身长七尺八寸，雅爱文史，博涉书记，尤好《左氏春秋》及《孙吴兵法》。
弱冠随父在梁州立功。
魏正光中，稍为别将。
时秦州羌有莫遮念生者，据州反，称帝，仍遣其弟天生率众攻陷岐州，遂寇雍州。
侃为偏将，隶萧宝夤往讨之，潜身巡緌，伺射天生，应弦即倒，其众遂溃。
以功迁使持节、征东大将军、东道行台，领泰山太守，进爵钜平侯。
translation: 
In ordinary years, he launched a large-scale Northern Expedition and was recruited as a right-guard general.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, and minions general, but the right guard remained as before.
He fell ill and died at the age of seventy-five.
Shaoling gave posthumously to his own official, the governor of Hengzhou, and also gave a piece of propaganda.
Mi's name is Zhuang.
Wang Shennian was good at riding and shooting when he was young, and he never failed in his old age. He once held two swords and shields in front of Emperor Gaozu, passed them from left to right, galloped back and forth, and his martial arts skills overwhelmed the crowd.
At that time, there was Yang Hua, who was able to shock the army and cavalry. It was a moment of great success. Emperor Gaozu deeply admired them.
The son respects his career, and his official position reaches the rank of Imperial Servant.
After his death, he posthumously awarded General Xinwei, governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou, and a volume of advocacy.
The second son, Seng Bian, has another biography.
Yang Hua was from Qiuchi, Wudu.
His father, Big Eyes, was a famous general in the Northern Wei Dynasty.
Yang Hua was brave and handsome when he was young. Empress Dowager Hu of the Northern Wei Dynasty forced him to commit adultery. Yang Hua was afraid of disaster, so he led his troops to surrender.
Empress Dowager Hu recalled that he could not control him, so she composed "Yang Baihua's Song" for him, and asked the palace people to sing with arms and legs all day and night. The song was extremely sad.
After Yang Hua participated in many expeditions and had military exploits, he served as a taipuqing, led by the prince Zuowei, and was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang County.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing rebelled, and Yang Hua wanted to establish a moral integrity. However, his wife and children were captured by thieves, so he surrendered and died in the thieves' territory.
Yangkan, named Zuxin, was a descendant of Liangfu in Mount Tai and a descendant of Yangxu, the prefect of Nanyang in the Han Dynasty.
Grandfather Yang Gui, when Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty was appointed as the governor of Xuzhou, he was recruited to serve as a wine minister and a great official.
It happened that Xue Andu surrendered to Jiugui with the cutting ball, and Jiugui was trapped in the ravine. Jiuwei awarded him the title of General of Wei and Governor of Yingzhou.
His father, Yang Zhi, served as a servant in the Northern Wei Dynasty and was a doctor named Jin Ziguanglu.
When Yang Kan was young, he was tall and handsome, seven feet eight inches tall. He was very fond of literature and history, and was well versed in books and memorials. He was especially fond of Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals and Sun Wu's Art of War.
When he was twenty years old, he followed his father to make military exploits in Liang Cong.
Tanji teased Li Nianwen and was gradually promoted to a special general.
At that time, Mo Zhe Niansheng, a Qiang people in Qinzhou, occupied the state and rebelled, proclaiming himself the emperor. He sent his younger brother Tiansheng to lead his troops to capture Qizhou, and then invaded Yongzhou.
Yang Yi was appointed as a partial general, and he went to fight under Lu Xuanyu. He was patrolling in the ditch and waiting for an opportunity to shoot Tiantian. Tiantian was shot and fell down, and his soldiers immediately dispersed.
Due to his merit, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, Zhengshu general, Shudaoxingtai, Taishan prefect, and was promoted to the title of Jupinghou.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
初，其父每有南归之志，常谓诸子曰： 人生安可久淹异域，汝等可归奉东朝。
侃至是将举河济以成先志。
兗州刺史羊敦，侃从兄也，密知之，据州拒侃。
侃乃率精兵三万袭之，弗克，仍筑十余城以守之。
朝廷赏授，一与元法僧同。
遣羊鸦仁、王弁率军应接，李元履运给粮仗。
魏帝闻之，使授侃骠骑大将军、司徒、泰山郡公，长为兗州刺史，侃斩其使者以徇。
魏人大骇，令仆射于晖率众数十万，及高欢、尔硃阳都等相继而至，围侃十余重，伤杀甚众。
栅中矢尽，南军不进，乃夜溃围而出，且战且行，一日一夜乃出魏境。
至渣口，众尚万余人，马二千匹，将入南，士卒并竟夜悲歌。
侃乃谢曰： 卿等怀土，理不能见随，幸适去留，于此别异。
因各拜辞而去。
侃以大通三年至京师，诏授使持节、散骑常侍、都督瑕丘征讨诸军事、安北将军、徐州刺史，并其兄默及三弟忱、给、元，皆拜为刺史。
寻以侃为都督北讨诸军事，出顿日城，会陈庆之失律，停进。
其年，诏以为持节、云麾将军、青、冀二州刺史。
中大通四年，诏为使持节、都督瑕丘诸军事、安北将军、兗州刺史，随太尉元法僧北讨。
法僧先启云： 与侃有旧，愿得同行。
高祖乃召侃问方略，侃具陈进取之计。
高祖因曰： 知卿愿与太尉同行。
侃曰： 臣拔迹还朝，常思效命，然实未曾愿与法僧同行。
北人虽谓臣为吴，南人已呼臣为虏，今与法僧同行，还是群类相逐，非止有乖素心，亦使匈奴轻汉。
高祖曰： 朝廷今者要须卿行。
乃诏以为大军司马。
高祖谓侃曰； 军司马废来已久，此段为卿置之。
行次官竹，元树又于谯城丧师。
军罢，入为侍中。
translation: 
At the beginning, his father had many wishes to return to the south, and often said to the disciples: How can one stay in a foreign land for a long time in his life? You should return to Shu Dynasty.
Yang Kanzhi will help fulfill his father's wish.
Yang Dun, the governor of Yanzhou, was Yang Kan's cousin. When he learned of this secretly, he resisted Yang Kan based on the state's territory.
Yang Kanyuzu led 30,000 elite troops to attack him. He failed to capture the city, so he built more than ten cities to guard it.
The rewards and official positions given by the imperial court were the same as those of Yuan Fa Seng.
Yang Yaren and Wang Bian were sent to lead an army to pick him up, and Li Yuanlu transported food and weapons to him.
When Emperor Wei learned of this, he sent an envoy to confer the title of General of Hussar, Situ, and Taishan County Duke to Yang Kan. He was appointed governor of Yanzhou. Yang Kan killed the envoy in public.
The people of Wei were shocked and ordered servant She Yuhui to lead his troops to deliver 100,000 troops. Gao Huan, Ji Zhuyangdu and others came one after another and surrounded Yangkan with more than ten layers inside and outside. Many of Yangkan's soldiers were killed and wounded.
The bows and arrows in the camp fence were exhausted, and the army from the south broke out at night. They fought and marched for a day and a night before leaving Wei territory.
When they arrived at Zakou, there were still more than 10,000 soldiers and 2,000 war horses. They were about to enter the Southern Dynasty. The soldiers sang mournfully all night long.
Yang Kan then declined and said: "You miss your homeland, so you should not follow me. I hope you can decide whether to stay or leave, and we will say goodbye here."
So the soldiers bowed and resigned.
Yang Kan arrived in the capital in the third year of Datong, and was appointed envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, Commander Xiaqiu to conquer all military affairs, General Anbei, and Xuzhou governor. His brother Yang Mo and his three younger brothers Yang Chen, Yang Gei, and Yang Wu were all appointed governors.
Soon after, he was appointed as the commander-in-chief to attack the military forces in the north and sent troops to guard Richeng. At this time, Chen Qingzhi lost the battle and Yangkan's troops stopped advancing.
In this year, Shaoling appointed him as Chijie, General Yunhui, and governor of Qingji Prefecture.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Shaoling appointed him as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of Xiaqiu Zhujun, general Anbei, and governor of Yanzhou, and followed Taiwei Yuanfaseng to attack the north.
Dieseng announced in advance: I have an old friendship with Yang Kan, and I hope to go with him.
Emperor Gaozu summoned Yang Kan to ask him about the strategy of the Northern Campaign, and Yang Kan stated his aggressive strategy in detail.
Gaozu therefore said: I know that you are willing to go with the Taiwei.
Yang Kan said: I left the north and returned to the court. I often wanted to serve the court, but I really didn't want to go with this monk.
Although the northerners call me a Chengren, the southerners have already called me a northerner. Now I am traveling with Dharma monks, and the same kind of people are still following each other. This not only goes against my original intention, but also makes the Huns look down on the Han people.
Zhi Sip said: The imperial court needs your companions today.
So in the lower Shao Dynasty, he appointed Jianyi as Sima of the army.
Zhidan said to Fucu: The post of Army Sima has been abandoned for a long time, and now it is reserved for you.
Marching to Guanzhu, Yuansu defeated the mourning division at Zhanqiu.
The northern expedition was stopped and he was appointed as a servant.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
五年，封高昌县侯，邑千户。
六年，出为云麾将军、晋安太守。
闽越俗好反乱，前后太守莫能止息，侃至讨击，斩其渠帅陈称、吴满等，于是郡内肃清，莫敢犯者。
顷之，征太子左卫率。
大同三年，车驾幸乐游苑，侃预宴。
时少府奏新造两刃槊成，长二丈四尺，围一尺三寸，高祖因赐侃马，令试之。
侃执槊上马，左右击刺，特尽其妙，高祖善之，又制《武宴诗》三十韵以示侃，侃即席应诏，高祖览曰： 吾闻仁者有勇，今见勇者有仁，可谓邹、鲁遗风，英贤不绝。
六年，迁司徒左长史。
八年，迁都官尚书。
时尚书令何敬容用事，与之并省，未尝游造。
有宦者张僧胤候侃，侃曰： 我床非阉人所坐。
竟不前之，时论美其贞正。
九年，出为使持节、壮武将军、衡州刺史。
太清元年，征为侍中。
会大举北伐，仍以侃为持节、冠军，监作韩山堰事，两旬堰立。
侃劝元帅贞阳侯乘水攻彭城，不纳；既而魏援大至，侃频劝乘其远来可击，旦日又劝出战，并不从，侃乃率所领出顿堰上。
及众军败，侃结阵徐还。
二年，复为都官尚书。
侯景反，攻陷历阳，高祖问侃讨景之策。
侃曰： 景反迹久见，或容豕突，宜急据采石，令邵陵王袭取寿春。
景进不得前，退失巢窟，乌合之众，自然瓦解。
议者谓景未敢便逼京师，遂寝其策，令侃率千余骑顿望国门。
景至新林，追侃入副宣城王都督城内诸军事。
时景既卒至，百姓竞入，公私混乱，无复次第。
侃乃区分防拟，皆以宗室间之。
translation: 
In the fifth year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Gaochang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaochang County, with a thousand households living in the city.
In the sixth year, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator.
The customs of the country and ridge favored rebellion, and the successive governorships failed to stop it. Yang Kan came and attacked, killing the leaders Chen Cheng, Cheng Mai and others. As a result, the county was purged and no one dared to commit rebellion.
Soon, he was recruited as the prince's left guard.
In the third year of Datong, Emperor Gaozu was lucky enough to visit Le Yuyuan, and Yang Kan attended the banquet.
At that time, the Shaofu reported that a new two-edged sword was made, which was two feet and four feet long and one foot and three inches in circumference. Emperor Gaozu gave Yang Kanma to him to try out the sword.
Yang Kan mounted his horse and stabbed left and right. His performance was so wonderful that Emperor Gaozu praised him. He also compiled thirty rhymes of "Wu Yan Shi" for Yang Kan to read. Yang Kan improvised the poem in response to the imperial edict. After reading it, Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that people with benevolence have courage. Now I have seen that people with courage have benevolence. It can be said that Confucius and Mencius followed the trend, and the virtuous people have not stopped.
In the sixth year, he was moved to the post of Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the eighth year, he was moved to the post of Du Guan Shangshu.
At that time, He Jingrong was in power, and he was also in Shangshu Province, but Yang Kan never visited him.
The eunuch Zhang Sengyin visited Yang Kan, and Yang Kan said: My bed is not something someone can sit on.
He didn't even go to receive him, but the public praised him for his chastity.
In the ninth year, he served as envoy Chijie, general Zhuangwu, and governor of Hengzhou.
In the first year of Taiqing, he was recruited as a servant.
At this time, the imperial court raised troops for the Northern Expedition, and appointed Yang Kanzhijie and Champion to supervise the construction of the Hanshan Weir fortifications. The weir was built in only twenty days.
Yang Kan persuaded Marshal Zhenyang Hou to take the water to attack Pengcheng, but was not accepted. Soon reinforcements from Shu Wei arrived in large numbers. Yang Kan repeatedly advised Zhenyang Hou to take advantage of Shu Wei's troops to attack from afar. The next morning, he also advised him to go out to fight, but he did not listen. Yang Kan led his soldiers to guard the weir.
After the defeat of all the armies, Yang Kan's soldiers formed a formation and slowly withdrew.
In the second year, he was appointed as the governor of the capital.
Hou Jing rebelled and captured Liyang. Emperor Gaozu asked Yangkan about his strategy to attack Hou Jing.
Yang Kan said: The signs of Hou Liang's rebellion have long been revealed. Perhaps he will rush into the capital and occupy the quarry quickly, so that King Shaoling can attack Shouchun.
Hou Liang's advance was not allowed to move forward, and when he retreated and lost his base camp, the mob naturally disintegrated.
The discussants said that Hou Jingwei did not dare to approach the capital immediately, so they put aside his strategy and ordered Yang Kan to lead more than a thousand cavalry to guard the country's gate.
When the army of Semi arrived, they chased back Yun and dug into the city to assist King Xuanji in supervising all the military forces in the city.
At that time, as many troops as possible arrived suddenly, people rushed into the city, public and private personnel were in chaos, and there was no order.
Yang Kan then separated them and put them on guard, and put them all under surveillance by the clan members.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
军人争入武库，自取器甲，所司不能禁，侃命斩数人，方得止。
及贼逼城，众皆恟惧，侃伪称得射书，云 邵陵王、西昌侯已至近路 。
众乃少安。
贼攻东掖门，纵火甚盛，侃亲自距抗，以水沃火，火灭，引弓射杀数人，贼乃退。
加侍中、军师将军。
有诏送金五千两，银万两，绢万匹，以赐战士，侃辞不受。
部曲千余人，并私加赏赉。
贼为尖顶木驴攻城，矢石所不能制，侃作雉尾炬，施铁镞，以油灌之，掷驴上焚之，俄尽。
贼又东西两面起土山，以临城，城中震骇，侃命为地道，潜引其土，山不能立。
贼又作登城楼车，高十余丈，欲临射城内，侃曰： 车高緌虚，彼来必倒，可卧而观之，不劳设备。
及车动果倒，众皆服焉。
贼既频攻不捷，乃筑长围。
硃异、张绾议欲出击之，高祖以问侃，侃曰： 不可。
贼多日攻城，既不能下，故立长围，欲引城中降者耳。
今击之，出人若少，不足破贼，若多，则一旦失利，自相腾践，门隘桥小，必大致挫衄，此乃示弱，非骋王威也。
不从，遂使千余人出战，未及交锋，望风退走，果以争桥赴水，死者太半。
初，侃长子躭为景所获，执来城下示侃，侃谓曰： 我倾宗报主，犹恨不足，岂复计此一子，幸汝早能杀之。
数日复持来，侃谓躭曰： 久以汝为死，犹复在邪？
吾以身许国，誓死行阵，终不以尔而生进退。
因引弓射之。
贼感其忠义，亦不之害也。
translation: 
Soldiers rushed into the arsenal to pick up their own weapons and inspect their armor. The officials in charge could not stop it. They had to stop it only when Fu Tan ordered several people to be killed.
When the thieves approached the city, everyone was frightened and shocked. Yang Kan pretended to have received a letter from outside the city, saying that reinforcements led by King Shaoling and Marquis of Xichang had arrived nearby.
Everyone is at peace.
The thieves attacked Shuye Gate and set the fire very vigorously. Yang Kan personally directed the resistance, poured water on the fire, and the fire subsided. He drew his bow and killed several people before the thieves retreated.
He was appointed as a sergeant and general as a military advisor.
Shao Ling once presented five thousand taels of gold, ten thousand taels of silver, and ten thousand pieces of silk as gifts to the soldiers, but Yang Kan refused.
More than a thousand people were rewarded with private money.
The thief made a pointed wooden donkey to attack the city, but the arrows and stones could not subdue it, so Yang Kan made a pheasant tail torch, put an iron arrow on it, poured oil on it, threw it on the wooden donkey and burned it, and soon the wooden donkey was burned.
The thieves then piled mountains of earth on the east and west sides of the city. They stood on the mountains and watched the city wrap around. The people in the city were shocked. Yang Kan ordered tunnels to be dug under the mountains of earth and the earth was transported away secretly. The mountains of earth could not be piled up.
The thieves also made a cart for climbing the city, which was more than ten feet high. They wanted to climb the city and shoot inwards. Yang Kan said: The cart is high and the soil in the ditch below the city is empty.
When the truck started to move, he fell down and everyone admired him.
Since the thieves could not win with frequent attacks, they built a long siege.
Zhu Yi and Zhang Wan discussed how to attack the bandits. Emperor Gaozu asked Yang Kan for his opinion, and Yang Kan said: "No."
The thieves had been attacking the city for many days, but since they could not capture it, they built a long siege to lure out the surrendered people in the city.
If we attack him now, if we send out few troops, we will not be able to defeat the thieves. If we send out more troops, if we lose, our own people will overrun each other, and the city gates will be narrow and the bridges will be small, which will definitely lead to great setbacks. This is to show weakness to the thieves, rather than to display the king's power.
Emperor Gaozu did not listen to his advice, so he sent more than a thousand men to fight. Before they could fight, they retreated. As expected, they fell into the water while fighting for the bridge, and most of them died.
At the beginning, Yang Kan's eldest son, Yang Lu, was captured by Hou Jing. Now he was brought to the city for Yang Kan to meet. Yang Kan said to the thief: I just destroyed the clan to serve the king, and I still hate it. How can I care about this son? I hope you can kill him early.
After meeting for a few days, Yang Kan said to Yang Lu: I thought you would die for a long time, how come you are still alive?
I pledged my life to the country and swore to die on the battlefield. Your life and death cannot determine my progress or retreat.
So he drew his bow and shot at him.
The thief was moved by Yang Kan's loyalty and did not harm Yang Yang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
景遣仪同傅士哲呼侃与语曰： 侯王远来问讯天子，何为闭距，不时进纳？
尚书国家大臣，宜启朝廷。
侃曰： 侯将军奔亡之后，归命国家，重镇方城，悬相任寄，何所患苦？忽致称兵？
今驱乌合之卒，至王城之下，虏马饮淮，矢集帝室，岂有人臣而至于此？
吾荷国重恩，当禀承庙算，以扫大逆耳，不能妄受浮说，开门揖盗。
幸谢侯王，早自为所。
士哲又曰： 侯王事君尽节，不为朝廷所知，正欲面启至尊，以除奸佞，既居戎旅，故带甲来朝，何谓作逆？
侃曰： 圣上临四海将五十年，聪明睿哲，无幽不照，有何奸佞而得在朝？
欲饰其非，宁无诡说。
且侯王亲举白刃，以向城阙，事君尽节，正若是邪！
士哲无以应，乃曰： 在北之日，久挹风猷，每恨平生，未获披叙，愿去戎服，得一相见。
侃为之免胄，士哲瞻望久之而去。
其为北人所钦慕如此。
后大雨，城内土山崩，贼乘之垂入，苦战不能禁，侃乃令多掷火，为火城以断其路，徐于里筑城，贼不能进。
十二月，遘疾卒于台内，时年五十四。
诏给东园秘器，布绢各五百匹，钱三百万，赠侍中、护军将军，鼓吹一部。
侃少而雄勇，膂力绝人，所用弓至十余石。
尝于兗州尧庙蹋壁，直上至五寻，横行得七迹。
泗桥有数石人，长八尺，大十围，侃执以相击，悉皆破碎。
侃性豪侈，善音律，自造《采莲》、《棹歌》两曲，甚有新致。
translation: 
Hou Jingqianyi and Fu Shizhe called Yang Kanyu and said to him: "The king Hou came from afar to greet the emperor. Why did he refuse behind closed doors and not accept him in time?"
The minister is a minister of the country and should report to the court.
Yang Kan said: After General Hou fled from the Eastern Wei Dynasty, he returned to the country and allowed him to guard the Great Wall in the north with heavy troops and serve as a high-ranking official to express his trust. What hardships did he have that suddenly led to the recruitment of troops?
Now we drive the mob down to the foot of the royal city, let the captive horses drink from the Huai River, and point their bows and arrows at the imperial palace. Is there any minister who can do this?
I have been greatly favored by the country, so I should only follow the imperial court's strategy and eliminate the treacherous and evil people. I should not accept idle talk and open the door to salute the robbers.
Please thank the prince and think about yourself as soon as possible.
Shi Zhe also said: The prince has done his best to serve the king, but the court does not know about it. He is planning to report to the Supreme Being in person in order to eradicate the treacherous ministers in the court. Since you are in the army, why would you bring your armor to the court?
Yang Kan said: The Holy Sage has ruled the world for about fifty years. He has a clear understanding of affairs and is holy and wise. There is no dark place where he cannot shine. Who is able to be a treacherous person in the court?
If you want to cover up your sins, how can you do it without sophistry?
Moreover, the prince personally raised his white sword and pointed it at the capital, doing his duty to the king. Is this what he did?
Shizhe was speechless, so he said: In the north, I have admired his grace and character for a long time. Every time in my life, I regret that I have not been able to get the opportunity to talk sincerely. I hope I can take off my military uniform and meet him.
Yang Kan took off his helmet for him, and Shizhe looked at him for a long time before leaving.
He was admired by the northerners just like this.
Later, it rained heavily and the earth and mountains in the city collapsed. The thieves took advantage of the situation and were about to attack the city. The fierce fighting could not be stopped. Yang Kan ordered more torches to be thrown to form a fire city to cut off the thieves' approach. They calmly built the city on the outside so that the thieves could not advance.
In December, he fell ill and died in Taiwan at the age of fifty-four.
The imperial edict gave the coffin for the official to be used after his death, 500 pieces of cloth and silk each, and 3 million in money. He also gave it as a posthumous gift to the ministers, the generals who guarded the army, and a propaganda section.
When Yang Kan was young, he was brave and mighty, with extraordinary physical strength. The bow he used had a draw strength of more than ten stones.
I once climbed up the wall of Yao's temple in Yanzhou, reaching up to five fathoms, and there were seven traces across it.
There were several stone figures at Siqiao, eight feet high and ten meters thick. Yang Kan raised the stone figures and struck them with each other, and they were all smashed.
Yang Kan has a luxurious temperament and is good at music. He wrote two songs, "Lotus Picking" and "Table Song", which are very innovative.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
姬妾侍列，穷极奢靡。有弹筝人陆太喜，著鹿角爪长七寸。儛人张净琬，腰围一尺六寸，时人咸推能掌中儛。
又有孙荆玉，能反腰帖地，衔得席上玉簪。
敕赉歌人王娥儿，东宫亦赉歌者屈偶之，并妙尽奇曲，一时无对。
初赴衡州，于两艖符，起三间通梁水斋，饰以珠玉，加之锦缋，盛设帷屏，陈列女乐，乘潮解缆，临波置酒，缘塘傍水，观者填咽。
大同中，魏使阳斐，与侃在北尝同学，有诏令侃延斐同宴。
宾客三百余人，器皆金玉杂宝，奏三部女乐，至夕，侍婢百余人，俱执金花烛。
侃不能饮酒，而好宾客交游，终日献酬，同其醉醒。
性宽厚，有器局，尝南还至涟口，置酒，有客张孺才者，醉于船中失火，延烧七十余艘，所燔金帛不可胜数。
侃闻之，都不挂意，命酒不辍。
孺才惭惧，自逃匿，侃慰喻使还，待之如旧。
第三子鹍。
鹍字子鹏。
随侃台内，城陷，窜于阳平。侯景呼还，待之甚厚。
及景败，鹍密图之，乃随其东走。
景于松江战败，惟余三舸，下海欲向蒙山。
会景倦昼寝，鹍语海师： 此中何处有蒙山！
汝但听我处分。
遂直向京口。
至胡豆洲，景觉，大惊，问岸上人，云 郭元建犹在广陵 ，景大喜，将依之。
鹍拔刀叱海师，使向京口。
景欲透水，鹍抽刀斫之，景乃走入船中，以小刀抉船，鹍以槊入刺杀之。
世祖以鹍为持节、通直散骑常侍、都督青、冀二州诸军事、明威将军、青州刺史，封昌国县公，邑二千户，赐钱五百万，米五千石，布绢各一千匹，又领东阳太守。
translation: 
The family was filled with concubines and concubines who were extremely extravagant and extravagant; there was a zheng player named Lu Taixi, who wore a plucked deer's antler claws that were seven inches long; a dancer named Zhang Jingwan, whose waist was only one foot and six inches, and it was said at the time that this person could dance in the palm of his hand.
There is also Sun Xingyu, who can turn his waist and put his head on the ground, and hold the hosta on the mat with his mouth.
The emperor rewarded him with the singer Wang E'er, and the prince also rewarded him with the singer Ren Qu. Both of them could sing extremely wonderful and strange songs. No one could equal them at that time.
When I first went to Hengzhou, I built three small houses with beams between the two ships. They were decorated with pearls and jade, with gorgeous paintings, curtains, and female musicians. They unmoored the boats at high tide and placed wine by the water. Along the edge of the pond, the crowds of people watching were crowded.
During the Datong period, Danlu, an envoy of Yue, and Chaitan were classmates in the north. One Shao ordered Yangkan to invite Yangfei to a banquet.
There were more than three hundred guests, and the utensils on the table were all made of gold and jade. Three female music pieces were played. At night, more than a hundred maids and maids held gold candles.
Yang Kan cannot drink alcohol, but he likes to socialize with guests, drinking with them all day long, and getting drunk with them.
With a generous temperament and talent, Zeng Nan returned to Liankou and held a banquet. There was a guest named Zhang Rucai who got drunk and caught fire on the boat. More than 70 boats were burned, and the gold and silk burned were beyond the limit.
After Yang Kan heard about it, he didn't care at all and ordered him to keep drinking.
Rucai was afraid and ran away by himself. Yangkan comforted him and let him come back, treating him as before.
The third son is the sheep.
Yangou's name is Zipeng.
After Yang Kan was in Taipei, the city fell and he fled to Yangping. Hou Jing called him back and treated him well.
When Hou Jing's rebellion failed, Yang Hao secretly tried to harm him, so he fled with him.
After Hou Jing was defeated in Songjiang, he only had three boats left and went to sea to go to Mengshan.
When I was sent to the castle, I was tired and had a nap during the day. Sheepman said to the sea master: Where is the Mengshan Mountain in this place?
Just listen to me.
So he sailed the ship straight to Jingkou.
When they arrived at Hudouzhou, Hou Jing woke up and was shocked. He asked the people on the shore. The people on the shore said that Guo Yuanjian was still in Guangling. Hou Jing was overjoyed and was going to seek refuge.
Yang Mo drew his sword and scolded the navy commander, telling him to sail to Jingkou.
Hou Jing wanted to dive into the water, but Yang Min stabbed him with a knife. Hou Jing fled into the boat and stabbed the boat with a knife. Yang Min stabbed him to death with a knife.
The ancestor of the emperor appointed Yang Min as the permanent attendant of Zhijie and Tongzhi Sanqi, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Qingji and Hebei provinces, the general Mingwei, and the governor of Qingzhou. He was granted the title of Duke of Changguo County, with a settlement of 2,000 households. He was given five million yuan in money, five thousand stones of rice, and one thousand pieces of cloth and silk each. He also led the governor of Shuyang.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
征陆纳，加散骑常侍。
平峡中，除西晋州刺史。
破郭元建于东关，迁使持节、信武将军、东晋州刺史。
承圣三年，西魏围江陵，鹍赴援不及，从王僧愔征萧勃于岭表。闻大尉僧辩败，乃还，为侯瑱所破，于豫章遇害，时年二十八。
羊鸦仁，字孝穆，太山钜平人也。
少骁果有胆力，仕郡为主簿。
普通中，率兄弟自魏归国，封广晋县侯。
征伐青、齐间，累有功绩，稍迁员外散骑常侍、历阳太守。
中大通四年，为持节、都督谯州诸军事、信威将军、谯州刺史。
大同七年，除太子左卫率，出为持节、都督南、北司、豫、楚四州诸军事、轻车将军、北司州刺史。
侯景降，诏鸦仁督士州刺史桓和之、仁州刺史湛海珍等精兵三万，趋悬瓠应接景，仍为都督豫、司、淮、冀、殷、应、西豫等七州诸军事、司、豫二州刺史，镇悬瓠。
会侯景败于涡阳，魏军渐逼，鸦仁恐粮运不继，遂还北司，上表陈谢。高祖大怒，责之，鸦仁惧，又顿军于淮上。
及侯景反，鸦仁率所部入援。
太清二年，景既背盟，鸦仁乃与赵伯超及南康王会理共攻贼于东府城，反为贼所败。
台城陷，鸦仁见景，为景所留，以为五兵尚书。
鸦仁常思奋发，谓所亲曰： 吾以凡流，受宠朝廷，竟无报效，以答重恩。
社稷倾危，身不能死，偷生苟免，以至于今。
若以此终，没有余愤。
因遂泣下，见者伤焉。
三年，出奔江西，其故部曲数百人迎之，将赴江陵，至东莞，为故北徐州刺史荀伯道诸子所害。
史臣曰：高祖革命受终，光期宝运，威德所渐，莫不怀来，其皆殉难投身，前后相属。
translation: 
He conquered the fallen uranium and was appointed as a regular servant of the Sanqi.
After pacifying Xia Sheng, he was appointed governor of Western Jinzhou.
Defeated Guo Yuanjian in Dongguan and moved him to the post of envoy Chijie, general Xinwu, and governor of Eastern Jinzhou.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, the Western Wei Dynasty besieged Jiangzuo, but Fuou failed to arrive when he came to help. He followed Wang Tanqi to conquer Xiao Bo in Lingtong. When he learned that Taiwei Sengbian was defeated, he returned, was defeated by Hou Tian, ​​and was killed in Yuzhang. He was twenty-eight years old.
Yang Yaren, whose courtesy name is Xiaomu, is from Juping, Taishan.
When he was young, he was brave, resolute and courageous, and served as an official in the county.
During the ordinary years, he led his brothers to join Liangqu from Cunxu and was granted the title of Marquis of Guangjin County.
After conquering the Qing and Qi areas, he made great achievements. He was later appointed as a member of the Standing Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Grand Administrator of Liyang.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs, General Xinwei, and governor of Qiaozhou.
In the seventh year of Datong, he was appointed as the prince Zuowei Lian, and served as Chijie, governor of the Southern and Northern Divisions of the four states of Henan and Chu, general of Qingchao, and governor of Beisi Prefecture.
Hou Jing surrendered, and ordered Ya Rendu to lead 30,000 elite troops including Huan Hezhi, the governor of Tuzhou, and Zhan Haizhen, the governor of Renzhou, to go to Xuanhu to pick up Hou Jing. He was also appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven prefectures including Yusi, Huaiji, Yinying, and Xiyu, and the governor of the two prefectures of Yu, to guard Xuanhu.
At this time, Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang, and the Eastern Wei army gradually approached. Crow Ren was afraid that the food shipment would not be able to catch up, so he returned to the Northern Division and apologized. Emperor Gaozu was furious and blamed him. Crow Ren was afraid, so he stationed troops in Huaishang again.
When Hou Jing rebelled, Yaren led his troops to aid the court.
In the second year of Taiqing, after Hou Jing betrayed the alliance, Yaren, Tang Bochao and Nankang Wang Huili jointly attacked the thieves in Shufu City, but were defeated by the thieves.
When Taicheng fell, Yaren met Hou Jing and was left by Hou Jing to serve as Minister of the Five Arms.
Yaren often wanted to cheer up, and said to those close to him: As a mediocre person, I have been favored by the court, but I have not yet repaid the favor.
The country was overthrown, but I couldn't die, so I was living an ignoble existence until now.
If I die now, I have no regrets.
As he spoke, he wept, and everyone who saw him was grieved for him.
Three years later, he fled Jiangxi. His original tribe was filled with hundreds of people to welcome him. He was about to go to Jiangling and then to Dongguan, where he was killed by Xun Bodao, the former governor of Xuzhou in the north.
Shi Chen said: Emperor Gaozu carried out reforms in response to the destiny of heaven, inherited the throne, and hoped for a great destiny for the country. He was infiltrated by might and virtue, and all of them were attracted. They all sacrificed their lives for the country and went on to succeed him.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
元法僧之徒入国，并降恩遇，位重任隆，击钟鼎食，美矣。
而羊侃、鸦仁值太清之难，并竭忠奉国。
侃则临危不挠，鸦仁守义殒命，可谓志等松筠，心均铁石，古之殉节，斯其谓乎！
translation: 
When people like Yuan Fa Monk enter the country, they are given favors. They have important positions and great responsibilities, and live a luxurious and beautiful life.
However, Yang Kan and Ya Ren were loyal to the country when they encountered the wars during the Taiqing period.
Yang Kan refuses to give in in the face of danger, while Ya Ren upholds his righteousness and destiny. It can be said that his ambition is as firm as a pines and bamboos, and his heart is as unwavering as iron and stone. This is what ancient martyrdom is like.


