Chunk 0: 
original: 
万石君名奋，其父赵人也，姓石氏。
赵亡，徙居温。
高祖东击项籍，过河内，时奋年十五，为小吏，侍高祖。
高祖与语，爱其恭敬，问曰： 若何有？
对曰： 奋独有母，不幸失明。
家贫。
有姊，能鼓琴。
高祖曰： 若能从我乎？
曰： 原尽力。
於是高祖召其姊为美人，以奋为中涓，受书谒，徙其家长安中戚里，以姊为美人故也。
其官至孝文时，积功劳至大中大夫。
无文学，恭谨无与比。
文帝时，东阳侯张相如为太子太傅，免。
选可为傅者，皆推奋，奋为太子太傅。
及孝景即位，以为九卿；迫近，惮之，徙奋为诸侯相。
奋长子建，次子甲，次子乙，次子庆，皆以驯行孝谨，官皆至二千石。於是景帝曰： 石君及四子皆二千石，人臣尊宠乃集其门。
号奋为万石君。
孝景帝季年，万石君以上大夫禄归老于家，以岁时为朝臣。
过宫门阙，万石君必下车趋，见路马必式焉。
translation: 
Wan Shijun's name was Fen, and his father was from the state of Zhao and his surname was Shi.
After the fall of Zhao State, he moved to Wen County.
Gaozu attacked Xiang Yu in the east and passed through Hanoi County. Shi Fen was fifteen years old at that time and was a minor official serving Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu talked with him and liked his respectful and cautious attitude. He asked him: Who are the people in your family?
He replied: My mother is the only one in my family and unfortunately she is blind.
The family is very poor.
There is also a sister who can play the piano.
Gaozu asked again: Can you follow me?
He replied: I am willing to serve with all my strength.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu called his sister into the palace to be a beauty, and asked Shi Fen to be the official in charge of receiving documents and interviews from the ministers. He moved his family to the middle family in Chang'an because his sister had become a beauty.
When Shi Fen served as an official until Emperor Xiaowen, he became a high-ranking official by accumulating merit.
He didn't know much about Confucianism, but he was as respectful and cautious as anyone else.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, Zhang Xiangru, Marquis of Dongyang, served as the Crown Prince and Tutor, but was later dismissed.
Emperor Wen chose someone who could be the prince's tutor. Everyone recommended Shi Fen, and Shi Fen became the prince's tutor.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, he was appointed to the position of Jiuqing. Because he was too respectful and cautious and approached him, Emperor Jing was also afraid of him and made him the prime minister of the princes.
His eldest son Shi Jian, his second son Shi Jia, his third son Shi Yi, and his fourth son Shi Qing all had official positions of two thousand shi because of their docile temperament, respect for their elders, and caution in doing things. So Emperor Jing said: "Shi Jun and his four sons all have official positions of two thousand shi, and the honor and glory of being ministers is concentrated in their family."
He called Shi Fen the King of Wan Shi.
In the last years of Emperor Jing's reign, Wan Shijun enjoyed the salary of a doctor and returned home in old age. When the imperial court held grand ceremonies and issued orders, he attended as a minister.
When passing the palace gate, Wan Shijun must get out of the car and walk quickly to show respect. When seeing the emperor's driver, he must put his hand on the driver's chariot to express his greetings.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
子孙为小吏，来归谒，万石君必朝服见之，不名。
子孙有过失，不谯让，为便坐，对案不食。
然后诸子相责，因长老肉袒固谢罪，改之，乃许。
子孙胜冠者在侧，虽燕居必冠，申申如也。
僮仆如也，唯谨。
上时赐食於家，必稽首俯伏而食之，如在上前。
其执丧，哀戚甚悼。
子孙遵教，亦如之。
万石君家以孝谨闻乎郡国，虽齐鲁诸儒质行，皆自以为不及也。
建元二年，郎中令王臧以文学获罪。
皇太后以为儒者文多质少，今万石君家不言而躬行，乃以长子建为郎中令，少子庆为内史。
建老白首，万石君尚无恙。
translation: 
When his descendants and grandchildren serve as minor officials and come home to visit him, Wan Shijun must wear court clothes to receive them and not call them by their names.
When some of his descendants made mistakes, he would not scold them. Instead, he would sit on a side seat and face the table and refuse to eat.
After this, other descendants will blame the person who made the mistake one after another, and then ask for mercy from the elders of the clan. They will bare their upper body to express their apology and resolutely correct themselves, and then they will agree to their request.
When his adult children and grandchildren are around him, he must dress neatly and show a serious and tidy look, even if he is staying at home.
His servants are also very respectful and cautious.
Sometimes when the emperor would reward food and send it to his home, he would always kowtow and bow before eating it, just like in front of the emperor.
When he was attending the funeral, he was very sad and mournful.
Future generations will follow his teachings and do as he did.
Wan Shijun's family was famous in all counties and vassal states for their filial piety and prudence. Even the simple Confucian scholars in Qi and Lu thought that they were inferior to them.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Wang Zang, the doctor's order, was convicted for advocating Confucianism.
The Empress Dowager believed that most of the Confucian scholars' speeches were exaggerated and not simple enough. Now Wan Shijun's family did not talk much but practiced it. She made Wan Shijun's eldest son Shi Jian the doctor's order and his youngest son Shi Qing the internal historian.
Shi Jian's hair turned gray in his old age, but Wan Shijun's body was still healthy and disease-free.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
建为郎中令，每五日洗沐归谒亲，入子舍，窃问侍者，取亲中稖厕窬，身自浣涤，复与侍者，不敢令万石君知，以为常。
建为郎中令，事有可言，屏人恣言，极切；至廷见，如不能言者。
是以上乃亲尊礼之。
万石君徙居陵里。
内史庆醉归，入外门不下车。
万石君闻之，不食。
庆恐，肉袒请罪，不许。
举宗及兄建肉袒，万石君让曰： 内史贵人，入闾里，里中长老皆走匿，而内史坐车中自如，固当！
乃谢罢庆。
庆及诸子弟入里门，趋至家。
万石君以元朔五年中卒。
长子郎中令建哭泣哀思，扶杖乃能行。岁馀，建亦死。
诸子孙咸孝，然建最甚，甚於万石君。
建为郎中令，书奏事，事下，建读之，曰： 误书！ 马 者与尾当五，今乃四，不足一。上谴死矣！
甚惶恐。其为谨慎，虽他皆如是。
万石君少子庆为太仆，御出，上问车中几马，庆以策数马毕，举手曰： 六马。
庆於诸子中最为简易矣，然犹如此。
translation: 
As a doctor, Shi Jian took one day off every five days. When he went home to visit his father, he first entered the waiter's cabin, privately asked the waiter about his father, took his underwear and washed it himself in the ditch outside the door, and then handed it to the waiter. He did not dare to let his father know that he often did this.
When Shi Jian was a doctor, he had something to say to the emperor. When he could avoid others, he spoke freely and urgently;
Therefore, the emperor showed respect and courtesy to him personally.
Wan Shijun moved to Lingli.
Shi Qing, the son of the internal historian, returned drunk and did not get out of the car when he entered the inner gate.
Wan Shijun refused to eat after hearing this.
Shi Qing was frightened and bared his upper body to ask for forgiveness, but Wan Shijun still refused.
The whole clan and his brother Shi Jian also exposed their upper bodies and begged for forgiveness. Wan Shijun scolded him and said: "Nei Shi is a noble person. When he entered the inner gate, the elders in the inner city hurriedly avoided him, but Nei Shi sat in the car and remained the same, not knowing how to restrain himself. This is what he should do!"
After saying that, he ordered Shi Qing to go away.
From then on, when Shi Qing and his brothers entered the inner gate, they all got out of the car and walked home quickly.
Wan Shijun died in the fifth year of Emperor Wu Yuanshuo.
The eldest son, Lang Zhongling, Shi Jian cried so much that he could only walk with a cane. More than a year later, Shi Jian also passed away.
Wan Shijun's descendants are all filial, but Shi Jian stands out the most, surpassing Wan Shijun.
When Shi Jian was the doctor, he wrote a memorial once and approved it. When Shi Jian read it again, he said in horror: "Wrong writing!" The four points under the character "horse" and the horsetail under the curve should be five strokes, but now there are only four strokes. One stroke is missing. If the emperor finds out and blames him, he will die!
This shows that he is very cautious even when dealing with other things.
Wan Shijun's youngest son Shi Qing was a servant and was driving for the emperor. The emperor asked him how many horses he was driving. After Shi Qing counted the horses one by one with a whip, he raised his hand and said: six.
Shi Qing is the most casual among his sons, yet he is still so cautious.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
为齐相，举齐国皆慕其家行，不言而齐国大治，为立石相祠。
元狩元年，上立太子，选群臣可为傅者，庆自沛守为太子太傅，七岁迁为御史大夫。
元鼎五年秋，丞相有罪，罢。
制诏御史： 万石君先帝尊之，子孙孝，其以御史大夫庆为丞相，封为牧丘侯。
是时汉方南诛两越，东击朝鲜，北逐匈奴，西伐大宛，中国多事。
天子巡狩海内，修上古神祠，封禅，兴礼乐。
公家用少，桑弘羊等致利，王温舒之属峻法，兒宽等推文学至九卿，更进用事，事不关决於丞相，丞相醇谨而已。
在位九岁，无能有所匡言。尝欲请治上近臣所忠、九卿咸宣罪，不能服，反受其过，赎罪。
元封四年中，关东流民二百万口，无名数者四十万，公卿议欲请徙流民於边以適之。
translation: 
Shi Qing became the Prime Minister of Qi State, and everyone in Qi State admired their family tradition, so Qi State was very stable without issuing decrees, so people built the Shixiang Temple in Shi Qing's honor.
In the first year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshou, the emperor established the prince and selected people who could be the prince's teachers from among the ministers. Shi Qing was promoted from the post of Pei Taishou to the prince's tutor, and seven years later he was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Emperor Wu's Yuanding reign, Prime Minister Zhao Zhou was dismissed from office for a crime.
The emperor issued an edict to the imperial censor doctor: The late emperor respected Wan Shijun very much, and their descendants were very filial. He ordered the censor doctor Shi Qing to serve as prime minister and be granted the title of Marquis Muqiu.
At this time, the imperial court was conquering South Vietnam and East Vietnam in the south, attacking North Korea in the east, expelling the Xiongnu in the north, and conquering Dawan in the west. The country was in a troubled period.
In addition, the emperor visited various parts of the country, repaired ancient temples, went to Mount Tai to worship heaven, and to Liangfu to worship the land, and promoted rituals and music.
When the country's finances were in trouble, the emperor asked Sang Hongyang and others to seek financial gain, Wang Wenshu and others implemented strict laws, and made Erkuan and others respect Confucianism. They all reached the rank of Jiuqing, and were promoted to power alternately. Major affairs in the court did not depend on the prime minister, who was just loyal and prudent.
Shi Qing had been in power for nine years, but he had not been able to make any remarks to rectify the current situation. He once wanted to punish the emperor's close ministers Zhong Zhong and Jiuqing Xianxuan for their sins. Not only could they not plead guilty, but they were punished.
In the fourth year of the Yuanfeng reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, two million people in Guandong were displaced, and 400,000 people were without household registration. The ministers discussed and asked the emperor to move the refugees to the frontiers as a way to punish them.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
上以为丞相老谨，不能与其议，乃赐丞相告归，而案御史大夫以下议为请者。
丞相惭不任职，乃上书曰： 庆幸得待罪丞相，罢驽无以辅治，城郭仓库空虚，民多流亡，罪当伏斧质，上不忍致法。原归丞相侯印，乞骸骨归，避贤者路。
天子曰： 仓廪既空，民贫流亡，而君欲请徙之，摇荡不安，动危之，而辞位，君欲安归难乎？
以书让庆，庆甚惭，遂复视事。
庆文深审谨，然无他大略，为百姓言。
後三岁馀，太初二年中，丞相庆卒，谥为恬侯。
庆中子德，庆爱用之，上以德为嗣，代侯。
後为太常，坐法当死，赎免为庶人。
庆方为丞相，诸子孙为吏更至二千石者十三人。
及庆死後，稍以罪去，孝谨益衰矣。
translation: 
The emperor believed that the prime minister was too old and cautious to participate in such discussions, so he asked him to take leave and go home, while the officials below the imperial censor who made such requests were investigated.
The prime minister felt guilty because he was not qualified for his position, so he wrote to the emperor and said: I, Shi Qing, have been favored to be prime minister, but my ability is too poor to assist your majesty in governing the country. As a result, the warehouses in the suburbs are empty and the people are displaced. I deserve death. The emperor cannot bear to punish me according to law. I am willing to return the seals of the prime minister and the marquis, request to retire and return home, and make way for a worthy person.
The emperor said: The granaries are empty, the people are poor and displaced, but you want to ask them to be relocated. The society is already in turmoil. The social turmoil has put the country in crisis. At this time, you want to resign from your position. Who do you want to blame?
He blamed Shi Qing with an edict. Shi Qing was very ashamed, and then he went back to handling political affairs.
Shi Qing was thoughtful and cautious, but he did not have any brilliant insights or the performance of speaking for the people.
More than three years have passed since then. In the second year of Taichu, Prime Minister Shi Qing passed away and was given the posthumous title Tianhou.
Shi Qing's second son was Ming De. Shi Qing liked and valued him very much. The emperor asked Shi De to be Shi Qing's heir and inherit the title of marquis.
Later I did it too often. Because he violated the law and was sentenced to death, Namsu became an official and became a civilian after atonement.
When Shi Qing was prime minister, thirteen of his descendants were promoted from minor officials to the rank of two thousand shi.
After Shi Qing's death, he was gradually removed from office for different crimes, and the family tradition of filial piety and prudence also declined.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
建陵侯卫绾者，代大陵人也。
绾以戏车为郎，事文帝，功次迁为中郎将，醇谨无他。
孝景为太子时，召上左右饮，而绾称病不行。
文帝且崩时，属孝景曰： 绾长者，善遇之。
及文帝崩，景帝立，岁馀不噍呵绾，绾日以谨力。
景帝幸上林，诏中郎将参乘，还而问曰： 君知所以得参乘乎？
绾曰： 臣从车士幸得以功次迁为中郎将，不自知也。
上问曰： 吾为太子时召君，君不肯来，何也？
对曰： 死罪，实病！
上赐之剑。
绾曰： 先帝赐臣剑凡六，剑不敢奉诏。
上曰： 剑，人之所施易，独至今乎？ 绾曰： 具在。
上使取六剑，剑尚盛，未尝服也。
郎官有谴，常蒙其罪，不与他将争；有功，常让他将。
translation: 
Wei Wan, Marquis of Jianling, was a native of Daling, Daijun.
Wei Wan became a Langguan by virtue of his driving skills and served Emperor Wen. He was promoted to Zhonglangjiang due to his continuous meritorious service. He had nothing but loyalty and prudence.
When Emperor Jing was the crown prince, he invited the emperor's closest officials to a banquet, but Wei Wan refused to go because he was ill.
When Emperor Wen was about to die, he told Emperor Jing: Wei Wan is a loyal man, you should treat him well.
When Emperor Wen died and Emperor Jing came to the throne, Emperor Jing did not reprimand Wei Wan for more than a year. Wei Wan just performed his duties more cautiously day by day.
Emperor Jing once visited Shanglinyuan and ordered Wei Wan, the lieutenant general, to ride in a carriage with him. When he came back, he asked Wei Wan: Do you know why you can ride in the same carriage with me?
Wei Wan said: From a small charioteer, I was lucky enough to be promoted to a lieutenant general due to my meritorious service. I don’t know why.
Emperor Jing asked again: When I became the crown prince, I invited you to a banquet, but you refused to come. Why?
He replied: I deserve to die, I was really sick at that time!
Emperor Jing gave him a sword.
Wei Wan said: The late Emperor once gave me a total of six swords. I dare not accept any more rewards from His Majesty.
Emperor Jing said: Swords are a favorite thing among people and are often used as gifts or in exchange for other things. How can you keep it until now? Wei Wan said: They are all still there.
The emperor sent someone to fetch the six swords. The swords were intact in their sheaths and had never been used.
When the Lang officers under the Zhong Lang general made mistakes, Wei Wan would often accept the consequences for them without arguing with others; when he had merit, he would always humbly give it to others.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上以为廉，忠实无他肠，乃拜绾为河间王太傅。
吴楚反，诏绾为将，将河间兵击吴楚有功，拜为中尉。
三岁，以军功，孝景前六年中封绾为建陵侯。
其明年，上废太子，诛栗卿之属。
上以为绾长者，不忍，乃赐绾告归，而使郅都治捕栗氏。
既已，上立胶东王为太子，召绾，拜为太子太傅。
久之，迁为御史大夫。
五岁，代桃侯舍为丞相，朝奏事如职所奏。
然自初官以至丞相，终无可言。
天子以为敦厚，可相少主，尊宠之，赏赐甚多。
为丞相三岁，景帝崩，武帝立。
建元年中，丞相以景帝疾时诸官囚多坐不辜者，而君不任职，免之。
其後绾卒，子信代。坐酎金失侯。
塞侯直不疑者，南阳人也。
为郎，事文帝。
translation: 
The emperor believed that he was of upright character and loyal to himself, so he appointed him as the Taifu of Liu De, King of Hejian.
During the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion between Wu and Chu, the emperor appointed Wei Wan as a general. He led the army of the King of Hejian to attack the rebels of Wu and Chu, and made him a lieutenant.
Three years later, because of his military exploits, he was granted the title of Marquis of Jianling in the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign.
The next year, Emperor Jing deposed Prince Li Liu Rong and killed the prince's uncle and others.
Emperor Jing thought Wei Wan was a loyal person and couldn't bear to let him handle this big case, so he gave him leave to go home. And let Zhi Du arrest and interrogate the Li clan members.
After handling this case, Emperor Jing appointed Liu Che, King of Jiaodong, as the crown prince, recruited Wei Wan, and appointed him as the crown prince and tutor.
After a long time, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
Five years later, he replaced Liu She, Taohou, as prime minister, and only reported matters within his duties to the court.
However, from the time he first became an official until he became prime minister, there was nothing to praise or blame.
The emperor thought that he was kind-hearted and could assist the young master. He respected and loved him very much and rewarded him with many things.
Wei Wan served as prime minister for three years, Emperor Jing died, and Emperor Wu ascended the throne.
During the Jianyuan period, when Emperor Jing was ill, many of the prisoners in various government offices were innocent people who had been wronged. As prime minister, he failed to fulfill his duties and was dismissed from his position as prime minister.
Later, Wei Wan died, and his son Wei Xin inherited the title of Marquis of Jianling.
Later, he lost his title because the aide's donation was irregular. There is no doubt that Saihou is from Nanyang.
He served Emperor Wen as a Langguan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
其同舍有告归，误持同舍郎金去，已而金主觉，妄意不疑，不疑谢有之，买金偿。
而告归者来而归金，而前郎亡金者大惭，以此称为长者。
文帝称举，稍迁至太中大夫。
朝廷见，人或毁曰： 不疑状貌甚美，然独无柰其善盗嫂何也！
不疑闻，曰： 我乃无兄。
然终不自明也。
吴楚反时，不疑以二千石将兵击之。
景帝後元年，拜为御史大夫。
天子修吴楚时功，乃封不疑为塞侯。
武帝建元年中，与丞相绾俱以过免。
不疑学老子言。
其所临，为官如故，唯恐人知其为吏迹也。
不好立名称，称为长者。
不疑卒，子相如代。
孙望，坐酎金失侯。
translation: 
The person who lived in the same room with him asked for leave to visit his family and mistakenly took other people's gold. After some time, the owner of the gold found out and made random suspicions about Zhi Buyi. Zhi Buyi apologized to him and admitted the incident, and bought gold to repay him.
When the person who took leave to visit the family came back and returned the gold, the person who had lost the gold was extremely ashamed, so people said that he was undoubtedly an honest person.
Emperor Wen also praised and promoted him, and he was gradually promoted to Taizhong doctor.
One time when he went to the court, someone slandered him and said: "Zhi is very beautiful, but there is no way to deal with the fact that he likes to have an affair with his sister-in-law!"
After Zhi Buyi heard about it, he said, "I don't have an elder brother."
After all, he made no other excuses.
During the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion between Wu and Chu, Zhi Busuo led troops to attack the rebels with an official position of two thousand stones.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, he was appointed as the imperial censor.
Emperor Jing commended the meritorious personnel who put down the rebellion of Wu and Chu, and made Zhi Busuo the Marquis of Sai.
During the Jianyuan period of Emperor Wu, both he and Prime Minister Wei Wan were dismissed from their official posts due to negligence.
I have no doubts about studying Laozi’s teachings.
When he governed every place, he held official positions in the same way as his predecessors, lest people know his official deeds.
He doesn't like to build up his reputation and be called an elder.
After Zhi Buyi's death, his son Xiangru inherited the position of marquis.
When the grandson was looking forward to it, he lost his position as marquis because the aide's donation did not meet the requirements.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
郎中令周文者，名仁，其先故任城人也。
以医见。
景帝为太子时，拜为舍人，积功稍迁，孝文帝时至太中大夫。
景帝初即位，拜仁为郎中令。
仁为人阴重不泄，常衣敝补衣溺袴，期为不絜清，以是得幸。
景帝入卧内，於後宫祕戏，仁常在旁。
至景帝崩，仁尚为郎中令，终无所言。
上时问人，仁曰： 上自察之。
然亦无所毁。
以此景帝再自幸其家。家徙阳陵。
上所赐甚多，然常让，不敢受也。
诸侯群臣赂遗，终无所受。
武帝立，以为先帝臣，重之。
仁乃病免，以二千石禄归老，子孙咸至大官矣。
御史大夫张叔者，名欧，安丘侯说之庶子也。
孝文时以治刑名言事太子。
然欧虽治刑名家，其人长者。
景帝时尊重，常为九卿。
至武帝元朔四年，韩安国免，诏拜欧为御史大夫。
自欧为吏，未尝言案人，专以诚长者处官。
translation: 
The doctor named Zhou Wen was named Ren, and his ancestors were originally from Rencheng.
Relying on his medical skills to visit the emperor.
When Emperor Jing became the crown prince, he appointed him as a minister. His accumulated merits gradually improved, and during the reign of Emperor Wen, he became a senior official in Taizhong.
As soon as Emperor Jing succeeded to the throne, he appointed Zhou Ren as doctor.
Zhou Ren was very reserved and did not reveal other people's words. He often wore shabby and patched clothes and underwear that could absorb urine, deliberately making his clothes unclean, so that the concubines would not come close to him, so he was favored by Emperor Jing.
When Emperor Jing entered the palace and played obscenely with his concubines, Zhou Ren was often by his side.
When Emperor Jing died, Zhou Ren was still serving as the doctor, but he never said anything.
Sometimes when the emperor asked about other people's situation, Zhou Ren always said: The emperor should examine him personally.
But he didn't say anything bad to others.
Therefore, Emperor Jing visited his home many times, and his family later moved to Yangling.
The emperor rewarded many things, but he often declined and did not dare to accept them.
He never accepted the gifts from the princes and officials.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he considered him a minister of the late emperor and respected him.
Zhou Ren was dismissed from his post due to illness and the court allowed him to enjoy a salary of two thousand dan per year to return to his hometown for retirement. His descendants all became high officials.
Uncle Zhang, the imperial censor, was named Ou, and he was the concubine of Zhang Shuo, the Marquis of Anqiu.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, he served the prince by studying Legalist theory.
Although Zhang Ou studied Legalism, he was very loyal.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, he was very respected and was often ranked among the nine ministers.
In the fourth year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu, Han Anguo was dismissed, and the emperor appointed Zhang Ou as the imperial censor.
Since Zhang Ou became an official, he has never said anything about punishing people. He has been an official with honesty and loyalty.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
官属以为长者，亦不敢大欺。
上具狱事，有可卻，卻之；不可者，不得已，为涕泣面对而封之。
其爱人如此。
老病笃，请免。
於是天子亦策罢，以上大夫禄归老于家。家於阳陵。
子孙咸至大官矣。
太史公曰：仲尼有言曰 君子欲讷於言而敏於行 ，其万石、建陵、张叔之谓邪？
是以其教不肃而成，不严而治。
塞侯微巧，而周文处讇，君子讥之，为其近於佞也。
然斯可谓笃行君子矣！
translation: 
His subordinates all thought that he was a loyal person and did not dare to deceive him too much.
The emperor handed over the cases to be tried to him, and if they could be returned for retrial, he would return them; if they could not be returned for retrial, he had no choice but to look at the sealed documents with tears in his eyes.
This is how he loves and cares for others.
Later, he became old and seriously ill and asked to be removed from his official position.
The emperor also issued an edict, granted his request, and allowed him to return to his hometown for retirement according to the doctor's salary. He lives in Yangling.
His descendants have all become high officials.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius once said: A gentleman should be slow in speech but quick in action. This sentence refers to Lord Wan Shi, Marquis Jianling and Uncle Zhang!
Therefore, they are not hurried but can make things successful, and their measures are not harsh but can make society stable.
Saihou Zhibu was too cunning and deceitful, but Zhou Wen failed to be humble and flattering. Gentlemen ridiculed them because they were close to flattery.
But they can also be regarded as gentlemen with honest behavior.


