Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 3, 5, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
公孙贺字子叔，北地义渠人也。
贺祖父昆邪，景帝时为陇西守，以将军击吴、楚有功，封平曲侯，著书十余篇。
贺少为骑士，从军数有功。
自武帝为太子时，贺为舍人，及武帝即位，迁至太仆。
贺夫人君孺，卫皇后姊也，贺由是有宠。
元光中为轻车将军。军马邑。
后四岁，出云中。
后五岁，以车骑将军从大将军青出，有功，封南窌侯。
后再以左将军出定襄，无功，坐酎金，失侯。
复以浮沮将军出五原二千余里，无功。
后八岁，遂代石庆为丞相，封葛绎侯。
时朝廷多事，督责大臣。
自公孙弘后，丞相李蔡、严青翟、赵周三人比坐事死。
石庆虽以谨得终，然数被谴。
初，贺引拜为丞相，不受印绶，顿首涕泣，曰： 臣本边鄙，以鞍马骑射为官，材诚不任宰相。
上与左右见贺悲哀，感动下泣，曰： 扶起丞相。
贺不肯起，上乃起云，贺不得已拜。
出，左右问其故，贺曰： 主上贤明，臣不足以称，恐负重责，从是殆矣。
贺子敬声，代贺为太仆，父子并居公卿位。
敬声以皇后姊子，骄奢不奉法，征和中擅用北军钱千九百万，发觉，下狱。
是时，诏捕阳陵朱安世不能得，上求之急，贺自请逐捕安世以赎敬声罪。
上许之。
后果得安世。
安世者，京师大侠也，闻贺欲以赎子，笑曰： 丞相祸及宗矣。
translation: 
Gongsun He, courtesy name Zishu, was born in Yiqu County, Beidi County.
Gongsun He's grandfather Kunxie was the prefect of Longxi County during the Han Dynasty. He was named Pingquhou because of his meritorious service in leading the army to attack the rebellious Wu, Chu and other countries. He wrote more than a dozen books.
Gongsun He was a knight when he was young, joined the army and made many military exploits.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was the crown prince, Gongsun He sacrificed his life for the prince. When Emperor Wu came to the throne, he promoted Gongsun He to the rank of servant.
Gongsun He's wife Wei Junru was the sister of Queen Wei, and Gongsun He was favored for this reason.
During the Yuanguang period of Emperor Wu, he was appointed General of Qingche and garrisoned in Mayi.
Four years later, he led his army out of Yunzhong to attack the Xiongnu.
After another five years of encountering him, he followed the general Wei Qing as a chariot and cavalry general to attack the Huns. With meritorious service, he was named Marquis of Nanao.
Later, as General Zuo, he attacked the Xiongnu from Dingxiang County, but failed. He was convicted of offering gold of insufficient quality and lost his title as a marquis.
Then General Fuju went out of Wuyuan County for more than 2,000 miles to attack the Xiongnu, but to no avail.
Eight years later, he finally replaced Shi Qing as prime minister and was named Ge Yihou.
At that time, the imperial court was very busy, supervising and punishing ministers.
After Gongsun Hong, the prime ministers Li Cai, Yan Qingzhai, and Zhao Zhou were convicted and died one after another.
Although Shi Qing died a good death because of his caution, he was criticized many times.
When Gongsun He was appointed as prime minister, he was unwilling to accept the Prime Minister's seal, kowtowed and cried, saying: I am originally from the border, and I became an official by relying on my ability to ride and shoot on horseback, but I am really not qualified to be prime minister.
When the emperor and his ministers saw Gongsun He's sorrow, they were moved to tears. Emperor Wu said: Help the prime minister up.
Gongsun He refused to get up, so the emperor got up and left. Gongsun He had no choice but to accept the appointment.
After leaving the palace, the ministers asked Gongsun He why he did not want to be the prime minister. Gongsun He said: Your Majesty is wise, but I am not qualified to be the prime minister. I am afraid of heavy responsibility, and I will be in danger from now on.
Gongsun He's son Gongsun Jingsheng replaced Gongsun He as the imperial servant, and father and son lived together as ministers.
Gongsun Jingsheng relied on the fact that he was the son of the queen's sister. He was arrogant and extravagant and did not abide by the law. During Emperor Wu's Zhenghe period, he embezzled 19 million of the Northern Army's money without authorization. After the incident was discovered, he was arrested and imprisoned.
At this time, the emperor issued an edict to search for Zhu Anshi from Yangling County, but he had not yet been captured. The emperor was eager to arrest him and bring him to justice. Gongsun He himself requested to hunt down Zhu Anshi to atone for Gongsun Jingsheng's crime.
The emperor agreed to Gongsun He's request.
Later, Gongsun He indeed captured Zhu Anshi.
Zhu Anshi was a great knight in the capital. Hearing that Gongsun He wanted to use him to atone for his son's sins, he smiled and said: The prime minister's disaster has implicated his clan.
summary:
Gongsun He, a native of Beidi Commandery, rose from a knight-errant background through military merit. He became favored due to his marriage to Empress Wei's sister and served as a general under Emperor Wu, earning the title of Marquis of Nanao for attacking the Xiongnu. After losing his marquisate for presenting inferior gold, he eventually became Chancellor and was titled Marquis of Ge Yi. He reluctantly accepted the position, weeping and predicting his own danger. His son Gongsun Jingsheng, arrogant and corrupt, embezzled military funds. To atone for his son, Gongsun He captured the knight Zhu Anshi, who retaliated by reporting Gongsun Jingsheng's affair with a princess and accusations of witchcraft against the emperor. Both father and son died in prison, and their clan was exterminated. This incident sparked the witchcraft disaster that ultimately led to the deaths of the princess, empress, and crown prince.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
诸太子宾客，尝出入宫门，皆坐诛。
其随太子发兵，以反法族。
吏士劫略者，皆徙敦煌郡。
以太子在外，始置屯兵长安诸城门。
后二十余日，太子得于湖。
语在《太子传》。
其明年，贰师将军李广利将兵出击匈奴，丞相为祖道，送至渭桥，与广利辞决。
广利曰： 愿君侯早请昌邑王为太子。
如立为帝，君侯长何忧乎？
屈氂许诺。
昌邑王者，贰师将军女弟李夫人子也。
贰师女为屈氂子妻，故共欲立焉。
是时，治巫蛊狱急，内者令郭穰告丞相夫人以丞相数有谴，使巫祠社，祝诅主上，有恶言，及与贰师共祷祠，欲令昌邑王为帝。
有司奏请案验，罪至大逆不道。
有诏载屈氂厨车以徇，要斩东市，妻子枭首华阳街。
贰师将军妻子亦收。
贰师闻之，降匈奴，宗族遂灭。
车千秋，本姓田氏，其先齐诸田徙长陵。
千秋为高寝郎。
会卫太子为江充所谮败，久之，千秋上急变讼太子冤，曰： 子弄父兵，罪当笞；天子之子过误杀人，当何罢哉！
臣尝梦见一白头翁教臣言。
是时，上颇知太子惶恐无他意，乃大感寤，召见千秋。
至前，千秋长八尺余，体貌甚丽，武帝见而说之，谓曰： 父子之间，人所难言也，公独明其不然。
此高庙神灵使公教我，公当遂为吾辅佐。
立拜千秋为大鸿胪。
数月，遂代刘屈氂为丞相，封富民侯。
translation: 
The prince's retainers, all who had ever entered or exited the palace, were beheaded.
Those who followed the prince and launched an army to rebel would have their entire families exterminated in accordance with the laws that punished rebels.
Officials and soldiers who took advantage of the chaos to rob were all exiled to Dunhuang County.
Since the prince was on the run, troops were stationed at the gates of Chang'an City from this time on.
More than twenty days later, the prince was captured in Hu County.
The words are in "The Story of the Prince".
The next year, General Li Guang of the Second Division led his troops to attack the Huns. Prime Minister Liu Quyou hosted a farewell banquet for Li Guangli and sent it to Weiqiao. Liu Quyou and Li Guangli said goodbye.
Li Guangli said: I hope that the king will ask the emperor to make the king of Changyi the crown prince soon.
If King Changyi is established as emperor, what will you worry about in the future?
Liu Quyou agreed to Li Guangli's request.
King Changyi was the son of Li Guangli's sister, Mrs. Li.
Li Guangli's daughter was the wife of Liu Quya's son, so both Li Guangli and Liu Quya wanted to make the king of Changyi the crown prince.
At this time, the investigation of the witchcraft prison was very tight. The insider ordered Guo Chen to report the wife of Prime Minister Liu Qumo because Liu Qumo was reprimanded by the emperor many times, instructing the wizard to curse the emperor when offering sacrifices to the earth god. There were vicious words, and Liu Qumo and Li Guangli prayed and sacrificed together, hoping to make King Changyi the emperor.
The officials in charge reported the matter to Emperor Wu and requested an interrogation and examination. Emperor Wu approved it, and the investigators convicted Liu Quya of treason.
Emperor Wu ordered Liu Quya to be put on a cart carrying food and paraded through the streets, and then beheaded in half in Shushi, Chang'an. Liu Quli's wife was taken to Huayang Street and beheaded in public.
Li Guangli's wife and children were also imprisoned.
When Li Guangli heard the news, he surrendered to the Huns and all his clan were executed.
Che Qianqiu's original surname was Tian, ​​and his ancestors were the Tian family from Qi State in the Spring and Autumn Period. Later, a branch of the Tian family moved to Changling County.
Che Qianqiu served as the official guarding the tomb of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
When Prince Wei was slandered by Jiang Chong and was defeated, after a long encounter, Che Qianqiu submitted a memorial of serious emergency, defending the crown prince, saying: The son who played tricks on his father's army should be whipped; the emperor's son accidentally killed someone due to negligence, what crime should he be sentenced to?
I once saw an old man with white hair in a dream who told me how to convict someone.
At this time, Emperor Wu already knew clearly that the prince sent troops out of fear and had no intention of rebellion. After reading Che Qianqiu's letter, he was deeply touched and came to his senses, so he summoned Che Qianqiu.
Che Qianqiu came forward to pay homage to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu saw that Che Qianqiu was more than eight feet tall and handsome and liked him very much. He said to him: It is difficult for others to talk about matters between father and son. Only you understand that this is not the case.
This is the god of Gaomiao asking you to enlighten me, so you should be my assistant.
Immediately ordered the car to be sealed for Qianqiu as Da Honglu.
A few months later, he succeeded Liu Quyou as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Fumin.
summary:
Liu Quli, son of Prince Jing of Zhongshan, replaced Gongsun He as Left Chancellor. Emperor Wu issued an edict condemning Gongsun He's corruption and appointed Liu Quli as Marquis of Peng. During the witchcraft rebellion, Crown Prince Ju killed the accuser Jiang Chong and raised troops. Liu Quli led imperial forces against the prince, resulting in a five-day battle with tens of thousands dead. The prince fled but was captured twenty days later. The following year, Liu Quli conspired with General Li Guangli to make the Prince of Changyi crown prince. This conspiracy was discovered, and Liu Quli was executed by waist-cutting, while Li Guangli surrendered to the Xiongnu. Che Qianqiu, originally named Tian, served as guardian of Emperor Gaozu's tomb. After the crown prince's defeat, Che submitted a memorial defending the prince, arguing that a son who mobilizes troops against his father should only be whipped. Emperor Wu, already regretting his actions, was moved and appointed Che as Grand Herald, then Chancellor within months, creating the unprecedented precedent of becoming Chancellor through a single memorial. Though lacking scholarly talents, Che proved competent and kind-hearted. After Emperor Wu's death, Che served under Emperor Zhao alongside General Huo Guang, deferring to Huo's authority while maintaining loyalty. He served as Chancellor for twelve years and was posthumously titled Marquis Ding.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
千秋居丞相位，谨厚有重德。
每公卿朝会，光谓千秋曰： 始与君侯俱受先帝遗诏，今光治内，君侯治外，宜有以教督，使光毋负天下。
千秋曰： 唯将军留意，即天下幸甚。
终不肯有所言。
光以此重之。
每有吉祥嘉应，数褒赏丞相。
讫昭帝世，国家少事，百姓稍益充实。
始元六年，诏郡国举贤良文学士，问以民所疾苦，于是盐铁之议起焉。
千秋为相十二年，薨，谥曰定侯。
初，千秋年老，上优之，朝见，得乘小车入宫殿中，故因号曰 车丞相 。
子顺嗣侯，官至云中太守，宣帝时以虎牙将军击匈奴，坐盗增卤获自杀，国除。
桑弘羊为御史大夫八年，自以为国家兴榷管之利，伐其功，欲为子弟得官，怨望霍光，与上官桀等谋反，遂诛灭。
王欣，济南人也。
以郡县吏积功，稍迁为被阳令。
武帝末，军旅数发，郡国盗贼群起，绣衣御史暴胜之使持斧逐捕盗贼，以军兴从事，诛二千石以下。
胜之过被阳，欲斩欣，欣已解衣伏质，仰言曰： 使君颛杀生之柄，威震郡国，令夏斩一欣，不足以增威，不如时有所宽，以明恩贷，令尽死力。
胜之壮其言，贳不诛，因与相结厚。
胜之使还，荐欣，征为右辅都尉，守右扶风。
上数出幸安定、北地，过扶风，宫馆驰道修治，供张办。
武帝嘉之，驻车，拜欣为真，视事十余年。
昭帝时为御史大夫，代车千秋为丞相，封宜春侯。
translation: 
Che Qianqiu is the prime minister, loyal, honest and virtuous.
Whenever ministers and ministers met, Huo Guang would say to Che Qianqiu: "Back then, I accepted the Emperor's mission with you. Now that Huo Guang is in charge of internal affairs and you are in charge of foreign affairs, what should I have to enlighten and urge me so that I don't let down the trust of the people of the world?"
Che Qianqiu said: General, please pay more attention, it will be the greatest honor in the world.
He always refused to express any objection to Huo Guang's dictatorship.
Huo Guang therefore valued Che Qianqiu very much.
Every time an auspicious occasion appears, he will praise and reward the prime minister with a thousand-year-old car.
Until the death of Emperor Zhao, the country had few affairs and the people gradually became rich and fulfilled.
In the sixth year of the First Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Zhao Shao ordered the county to recommend virtuous and literary people, and asked them about the sufferings of the people, which led to the discussion of salt and iron.
Che Qianqiu served as prime minister for twelve years. After his death, Mi was named Dinghou.
At first, when Che Qianqiu was old, the emperor treated him favorably and showed up to the court. He was allowed to enter the palace in a small car, so he was known as the "Prime Minister of Cars".
Che Qianqiu's son Tian Shun succeeded him as a marquis and became the prefect of Yunzhong County. At that time, Emperor Xuan was serving as General Huya to attack the Xiongnu. He was convicted of committing suicide for illegally increasing the number of prisoners and taking credit, and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sang Hongyang worked as a censor for eight years. He thought it would benefit the country and boasted about his achievements. He wanted to get official positions for the children of the Sang family. He resented Huo Guang and rebelled against Shangguan Jie and others, and was finally executed.
Wang Xin is from Jinan County.
As a junior official in the county, he accumulated merit and was gradually promoted to the magistrate of Baiyang County.
In the last years of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the army often went on expeditions, and thieves gathered in the counties and counties. The embroidered censor's sudden victory directed the envoys to hunt down the thieves with axes, and dealt with the property collected by the local officials according to the amount of property collected and handed over to the court for military use. Officials with less than 2,000 dan who disobeyed orders were executed.
Baoshengzhi inspected Beiyang and wanted to kill Wang Xin. Wang Xin had undressed and was lying on the chopping board under the guillotine. Gongxin raised his head and said to Baoshengzhi: You have the power of life and death and are powerful in the county. Killing another Wang Xin now will not increase your prestige. It is better to be lenient according to the situation to show your kindness and mercy. Let me try my best to repay you.
Bao Shengzhi admired what he said and forgave him without killing him. Therefore, Bao Shengzhi and Wang Xin became close friends.
After Shengzhi completed his mission and returned to Beijing, he recommended Wang Xin to the emperor. Emperor Wu recruited him to serve as the captain of Youfu, acting as Youfu Feng.
Emperor Wu visited Saitong and Jiidi many times. When he passed through Diehuang, Tanqiu sent people to clean the palace, make the roads smooth, and set up curtains and curtains for comfort.
Emperor Wu was very happy, commended Wang Xin, stopped the car, and changed Wang Xin's official position to a regular one, and he ruled for more than ten years.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wang Xin served as the imperial censor, succeeded Che Qianqiu as prime minister, and was named Marquis of Yichun.
summary:
Wang Xin of Jinan Commandery rose from minor official to magistrate. When Imperial Censor Bao Shengzhi investigated and prepared to execute him, Wang Xin pleaded for mercy, arguing that killing him would not increase Shengzhi's prestige. Impressed, Shengzhi spared him and later recommended him. Wang Xin served Emperor Wu competently, becoming You Fufeng. Under Emperor Zhao, he succeeded Che Qianqiu as Chancellor and was titled Marquis of Yichun, dying the following year.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
明年薨，谥曰敬侯。
子谭嗣，以列侯与谋废昌邑王立宣帝，益封三百户。
薨，子咸嗣。
王莽妻即咸女，莽篡位，宜春氏以外戚宠。
自訢传国至玄孙，莽败，乃绝。
杨敞，华阴人也。
给事大将军莫府，为军司马，霍光爱厚之，稍迁至大司农。
元凤中，稻田使者燕仓知上官桀等反谋，以告敞。
敞素谨累事，不敢言，乃移病卧。
以告谏大夫杜延年，延年以闻。
苍、延年皆封，敞以九卿不辄言，故不得侯。
后迁御史大夫，代王为丞相，封安平侯。
明年，昭帝崩。
昌邑王征即位，淫乱，大将军光与车骑将军张安世谋欲废王更立。
议既定，使大司农田延年报敞。
敞惊惧，不知所言，汗出洽背，徒唯唯而已。
延年起至更衣，敞夫人遽从东箱谓敞曰： 此国大事，今大将军议已定，使九卿来报君侯。
君侯不疾应，与大将军同心，犹与无决，先事诛矣。
延年从更衣还，敞、夫人与延年参语许诺，请奉大将军教令，遂共废昌邑王，立宣帝。
宣帝即位月余，敞薨，谥曰敬侯。
子忠嗣，以敞居位定策安宗庙，益封三千五百户。
忠弟惲，字子幼，以忠任为郎，补常侍骑，惲母，司马迁女也。
惲始读外祖《太史公记》，颇为《春秋》。
以材能称。
好交英俊诸儒，名显朝廷，擢为左曹。
translation: 
He died the next year and was named Jinghou.
Wang Xin's son Wang Tan inherited his father's title, and as a prince participated in the plan to abolish the king of Changyi, support Emperor Xuan, and increase the number of 300 households in the land.
After Wang Tan died, his son Wang Xian inherited his title.
Yucha's wife was Wang Sheng's daughter. After Wang Chai usurped the throne, Wang Sheng's family respected her because she was a relative.
Starting from Wang Xin, the feudal state was passed down to Great-grandson, and was discontinued after Wang Mang's defeat.
Yang Chang is from Huayin County.
When he served in the general Tingguang shogunate, he was appointed military commander. Huo Guang liked and treated him favorably, and he was gradually promoted to chief agricultural officer.
During the Wuhuang period of Guitong, the rice field envoy You Dong learned of the rebellion conspiracy of Emperor Jie and others and informed Yang Chang of the matter.
Yang Chang was always cautious and fearful, and did not dare to report to Emperor Zhao, so he wrote a letter claiming to be ill and emigrated.
Yan Cang told the news to Du Yannian, the admonishing doctor, and Du Yannian reported it to Emperor Zhao.
Yan Cang and Du Yannian were both granted the title of marquis for their meritorious service. As the ninth minister, Yang Chang heard the news of the rebellion but failed to report it in time, so he was not granted the title of marquis.
Later, he was promoted to imperial censor, succeeded Wang Xin as prime minister, and was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
In the second year, Emperor Zhao died.
The king of Changyi came to Beijing to take the throne after being summoned by the ministers. He was promiscuous and immoral. The general Huo Guang conspired with the chariot general Zhang Anshi to depose the king of Luyi and reestablish the emperor.
It was agreed upon that Da Si’s farmland would be extended to inform Yang Chang.
Yang Chang was very frightened after hearing this. He didn't know what to say. His back was wet with sweat and he could only make a "weiwei" sound.
Tian Yannian got up and went to the dressing room to change clothes. Yang Chang's wife hurriedly came out of the side room and said to Yang Chang: This is a national event. Now the general's plan has been decided. I asked Dasi Nanyang Yannian to tell you.
If you don't agree quickly and work together with the general, if you hesitate, you will be killed first.
When Tian Yannian came back from the dressing room, both Yang Chang and his wife and Tian Yannian agreed with the general's decision and asked to obey the general's order. So the court ministers deposed King Changyi and established Emperor Xuan.
More than a month after Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Yang Chang died, and Mi was named Jinghou.
His son Yang Zhong inherited the title. Because Yang Chang was the prime minister, he participated in the formulation of the strategy of deposing the king of Changyi and replacing him with Emperor Xuan. He made great contributions to the stabilization of the Moshi ancestral temple and the increase of 3,500 households in the city.
Yang Zhong's younger brother Yang Yun, named Ziyou, relied on Yang Zhong's official position and was appointed Lang Guan according to the Han Dynasty's son appointment system, filling the post of Chang Shiqi. Yang Yun's mother was Sima Qian's daughter.
Yang Yun first read "Tai Shi Gong Ji" written by his grandfather, and was also familiar with "Spring and Autumn".
Because of his talent, he is praised by people.
He liked to make friends with handsome and outstanding Confucian scholars. He became famous in the court and was promoted to Zuocao.
summary:
Yang Chang of Huayin Commandery served in General Huo Guang's staff, rising to Minister of Agriculture. Learning of a rebellion conspiracy, Yang Chang, being cautious, feigned illness rather than reporting it. Another official reported the matter and received a marquisate, while Yang Chang was denied this honor. He later became Imperial Censor and succeeded Wang Xin as Chancellor, titled Marquis of Anping. After Emperor Zhao's death, when Huo Guang planned to depose the immoral King of Changyi, Yang Chang initially hesitated but was persuaded by his wife to cooperate. He died shortly after Emperor Xuan's accession.

