Chunk 0: 
original: 
公孙贺字子叔，北地义渠人也。
贺祖父昆邪，景帝时为陇西守，以将军击吴、楚有功，封平曲侯，著书十余篇。
贺少为骑士，从军数有功。
自武帝为太子时，贺为舍人，及武帝即位，迁至太仆。
贺夫人君孺，卫皇后姊也，贺由是有宠。
元光中为轻车将军。军马邑。
后四岁，出云中。
后五岁，以车骑将军从大将军青出，有功，封南窌侯。
后再以左将军出定襄，无功，坐酎金，失侯。
复以浮沮将军出五原二千余里，无功。
后八岁，遂代石庆为丞相，封葛绎侯。
时朝廷多事，督责大臣。
自公孙弘后，丞相李蔡、严青翟、赵周三人比坐事死。
石庆虽以谨得终，然数被谴。
初，贺引拜为丞相，不受印绶，顿首涕泣，曰： 臣本边鄙，以鞍马骑射为官，材诚不任宰相。
上与左右见贺悲哀，感动下泣，曰： 扶起丞相。
贺不肯起，上乃起云，贺不得已拜。
出，左右问其故，贺曰： 主上贤明，臣不足以称，恐负重责，从是殆矣。
贺子敬声，代贺为太仆，父子并居公卿位。
敬声以皇后姊子，骄奢不奉法，征和中擅用北军钱千九百万，发觉，下狱。
是时，诏捕阳陵朱安世不能得，上求之急，贺自请逐捕安世以赎敬声罪。
上许之。
后果得安世。
安世者，京师大侠也，闻贺欲以赎子，笑曰： 丞相祸及宗矣。
translation: 
Gongsun He, courtesy name Zishu, was born in Yiqu County, Beidi County.
Gongsun He's grandfather Kunxie was the prefect of Longxi County during the Han Dynasty. He was named Pingquhou because of his meritorious service in leading the army to attack the rebellious Wu, Chu and other countries. He wrote more than a dozen books.
Gongsun He was a knight when he was young, joined the army and made many military exploits.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was the crown prince, Gongsun He sacrificed his life for the prince. When Emperor Wu came to the throne, he promoted Gongsun He to the rank of servant.
Gongsun He's wife Wei Junru was the sister of Queen Wei, and Gongsun He was favored for this reason.
During the Yuanguang period of Emperor Wu, he was appointed General of Qingche and garrisoned in Mayi.
Four years later, he led his army out of Yunzhong to attack the Xiongnu.
After another five years of encountering him, he followed the general Wei Qing as a chariot and cavalry general to attack the Huns. With meritorious service, he was named Marquis of Nanao.
Later, as General Zuo, he attacked the Xiongnu from Dingxiang County, but failed. He was convicted of offering gold of insufficient quality and lost his title as a marquis.
Then General Fuju went out of Wuyuan County for more than 2,000 miles to attack the Xiongnu, but to no avail.
Eight years later, he finally replaced Shi Qing as prime minister and was named Ge Yihou.
At that time, the imperial court was very busy, supervising and punishing ministers.
After Gongsun Hong, the prime ministers Li Cai, Yan Qingzhai, and Zhao Zhou were convicted and died one after another.
Although Shi Qing died a good death because of his caution, he was criticized many times.
When Gongsun He was appointed as prime minister, he was unwilling to accept the Prime Minister's seal, kowtowed and cried, saying: I am originally from the border, and I became an official by relying on my ability to ride and shoot on horseback, but I am really not qualified to be prime minister.
When the emperor and his ministers saw Gongsun He's sorrow, they were moved to tears. Emperor Wu said: Help the prime minister up.
Gongsun He refused to get up, so the emperor got up and left. Gongsun He had no choice but to accept the appointment.
After leaving the palace, the ministers asked Gongsun He why he did not want to be the prime minister. Gongsun He said: Your Majesty is wise, but I am not qualified to be the prime minister. I am afraid of heavy responsibility, and I will be in danger from now on.
Gongsun He's son Gongsun Jingsheng replaced Gongsun He as the imperial servant, and father and son lived together as ministers.
Gongsun Jingsheng relied on the fact that he was the son of the queen's sister. He was arrogant and extravagant and did not abide by the law. During Emperor Wu's Zhenghe period, he embezzled 19 million of the Northern Army's money without authorization. After the incident was discovered, he was arrested and imprisoned.
At this time, the emperor issued an edict to search for Zhu Anshi from Yangling County, but he had not yet been captured. The emperor was eager to arrest him and bring him to justice. Gongsun He himself requested to hunt down Zhu Anshi to atone for Gongsun Jingsheng's crime.
The emperor agreed to Gongsun He's request.
Later, Gongsun He indeed captured Zhu Anshi.
Zhu Anshi was a great knight in the capital. Hearing that Gongsun He wanted to use him to atone for his son's sins, he smiled and said: The prime minister's disaster has implicated his clan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
南山之行不足受我辞，斜谷之木不足为我械。
安世遂从狱中上书，告敬声与阳石公主私通，及使人巫祭祠诅上，且上甘泉当驰道埋偶人，祝诅有恶言。
下有司案验贺，穷治所犯，遂父子死狱中，家族。
巫蛊之祸起自朱安世，成于江充，遂及公主、皇后、太子，皆败。
语在《江充》、《戾园传》。
刘屈氂，武帝庶兄中山靖王子也，不知其始所以进。
征和二年春，制诏御史： 故丞相贺倚旧故乘高势而为邪，兴美田以利子弟宾客，不顾元元，无益边谷，货赂上流，朕忍之久矣。
终不自革，乃以边为援，使内郡自省作车，又令耕者自转，以困农烦扰畜者，重马伤枆，武备衰减；下吏妄赋，百姓流亡；又诈为诏书，以奸传朱安世。
狱已正于理。
其以涿郡太守屈氂为左丞相，分丞相长史为两府，以待天下远方之选。
夫亲亲任贤，周、唐之道也。
以澎户二千二百封左丞相为澎侯。
其秋，戾太子为江充所谮，杀充，发兵入丞相府，屈氂挺身逃，亡其印绶。
是时，上避暑在甘泉宫，丞相长史乘疾置以闻。上问： 丞相何为？
对曰： 丞相秘之，未敢发兵。
上怒曰： 事籍籍如此，何谓秘也？
丞相无周公之风矣。
周公不诛管、蔡乎？
translation: 
I am about to report the Prime Minister's illegal activities. There are many words in the lawsuit, and I can't finish all the bamboos cut down in Nanshan. I can't use the wood of the inclined valley as shackles to restrain me and prevent me from reporting.
Zhu Anshi then wrote a letter from prison, reporting Gongsun Jingsheng's affair with Princess Yangshi, and instructing wizards to curse the emperor during sacrifices. He also went to Ganquan Palace to bury puppets on Chidao and cursed in very vicious words.
Emperor Wu ordered the relevant authorities to interrogate and examine Gongsun He, and thoroughly investigate the crimes he committed. As a result, the father and son died in prison, and the entire family was wiped out.
The witchcraft disaster started with Zhu Anshi and was completed by Jiang Chong. It eventually involved the princess, queen and prince, who all died due to the failure.
The words are in "The Biography of Jiang Chong" and "The Biography of Liyuan".
Liu Quyou was the son of Liu Sheng, the half-brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Prince Jing of Zhongshan. It is not clear how he started to be promoted.
In the spring of the second year of Zhenghe, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent a letter to the censor in Shao and said: The former prime minister, Gongsun Heyi, relied on his old relationship with me to do evil things by taking advantage of his high position and power to increase fertile farmland for the benefit of his children and retainers, regardless of the suffering of the people. The soldiers guarding the border were short of food and could not think of ways to increase it. He was greedy for money, causing the people to bribe high-ranking officials. I have tolerated these things he did for a long time.
However, he did not repent on his own. Instead, he arbitrarily extended favors to the border counties in order to seek support for himself. He ordered the counties and counties in the interior to reduce costs to build vehicles for the troops garrisoning in the border counties. He also asked the farmers to transport grain to the border counties themselves, which resulted in poverty for the farmers, fatigue of livestock, loss of horses, and weakening of military equipment. The officials below increased taxes at will, causing the people to go bankrupt and exile. He also faked an edict and arrested Zhu Anshi on charges of treachery.
The case of Gongsun He and his son has been correctly handled by the judge.
He appointed Liu Qushou, the governor of Zhuo County, as the left prime minister, divided the prime minister's long history into two mansions, and waited for a wise man to be appointed as the right prime minister.
Keep close relatives and appoint talented people. This is the common method of Tang Yao and Western Zhou Dynasty.
The 2,200 households in Pengdi were granted the title of Penghou to Zuo Prime Minister Liu Quyou.
In the autumn of the second year of Zhenghe, Jiang Chong made false accusations that Prince Ru was involved in the witchcraft case. Prince Ru killed Jiang Chong and led his troops to attack the Prime Minister's Mansion. Liu Quyou escaped and lost the official seal of Prime Minister Zuo.
At the time of the dispatch, Emperor Wu was vacationing in Ganquan Palace. Prime Minister Chang Shi took a horse from the post house and went straight to Ganquan Palace to report the matter to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu asked: "What are you doing, Prime Minister?"
Prime Minister Chang Shi replied: The Prime Minister is blocking the news and does not dare to send troops.
Emperor Wu said angrily: "When things have reached this level, how can we block the news?"
The prime minister does not have the demeanor of Zhou Gong.
Didn’t Duke Zhou kill Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
乃赐丞相玺书曰： 捕斩反者，自有赏罚。
以牛车为橹，毋接短兵，多杀伤士众。
坚闭城门，毋令反者得出。
太子既诛充发兵，宣言帝在甘泉病困，疑有变，奸臣欲作乱。
上于是从甘泉来，幸城西建章宫，诏发三辅近县兵，部中二千石以下，丞相兼将。
太子亦遣使者挢制赦长安中都官囚徒，发武库兵，命少傅石德及宾客张光等分将，使长安囚如侯持节发长水及宣曲胡骑，皆以装会。
侍郎莽通使长安，因追捕如侯，告胡人曰： 节有诈，勿听也。
遂斩如侯，引骑入长安，又发辑濯士，以予大鸿胪商丘城。
初，汉节纯赤，以太子持赤节，故更为黄旄加上以相别。
太子召监北军使者任安发北军兵，安受节已，闭军门，不肯应太子。
太子引兵去，驱四市人凡数万众，至长乐西阙下，逢丞相军，合战五日，死者数万人，血流入沟中。
丞相附兵浸多，太子军败，南奔覆盎城门，得出。
会夜司直田仁部闭城门，坐令太子得出，丞相欲斩仁。
御史大夫暴胜之谓丞相曰： 司直，吏二千石，当先请，奈何擅斩之？
丞相释仁。
上闻而大怒，下吏责问御史大夫曰： 司直纵反者，丞相斩之，法也，大夫何以擅止之？
胜之皇恐，自杀。
及北军使者任安，坐受太子节，怀二心，司直田仁纵太子，皆要斩。
上曰： 侍郎莽通获反将如侯，长安男子景通从通获少傅石德，可谓元功矣。
大鸿胪商丘成力战获反将张光。
其封通为重合侯，建为德侯，成为秺侯。
translation: 
So he gave an edict to Prime Minister Liu Quyang saying: If you hunt and kill the rebels, I will naturally reward you.
Surround the rebels from a distance and use the bullock cart as a shield. Do not engage the rebels in close combat, thereby killing more soldiers.
Close the city gates and don't let the rebels escape.
Since the prince had killed Jiang Chong and led his troops to rebel, he announced that Emperor Wu was seriously ill in Ganquan Palace. The prince sent troops because he suspected that something had happened in the capital and that treacherous officials wanted to cause chaos.
At this time, Emperor Wu returned to Chang'an from Ganquan Palace and visited the Jianzhang Palace in the west of Chang'an City. He issued an edict to recruit the troops of Jing Zhaoyin, Zuo Fengyi, and You Fufeng from various counties in Chang'an. The deployment was led by officials with a weight of less than 2,000 dan, and the left prime minister Liu Quyou also served as general.
The prince also sent envoys to falsely pass on the edict to pardon the prisoners in the capital's government offices in Chang'an City, and mobilize the troops guarding the arsenal. He ordered Shao Fu Shide and retainer Zhang Guang to lead them respectively. He also sent prisoners in Chang'an City such as Hou Chijie to recruit Changshui Xiaowei and Hu Qi from Xuanqu Palace, all carrying weapons and equipment to assemble in Chang'an City.
The minister, Mang Tong, was ordered to go to Chang'an City as an envoy, so he pursued Ruhou and told Hu Qi: There is fraud in the way of mobilizing troops, so don't listen to Ruhou.
So he killed Ruhou and led the Hu cavalry into Chang'an. He also recruited sailing soldiers and handed them over to the leadership of Dahonglu Shang Qiucheng.
In the beginning, the talismans for mobilizing troops in the Han Dynasty were all red. Because the prince held a red talisman, later the emperor's talismans for mobilizing troops were decorated with yellow yak tails to distinguish them.
The prince summoned Ren An, the envoy to supervise the Northern Army, to mobilize the Northern Army troops. After Ren An accepted the talisman for troop deployment, he closed the gates of the Northern Army and refused to respond to the prince.
The prince had no choice but to lead his troops to leave the Northern Army, and drove tens of thousands of people from the four cities of Chang'an. When they came to the west gate of Changle Palace, they encountered the army of Left Prime Minister Liu Quyou. After five days of melee, tens of thousands of people died, and blood flowed into the sewers on both sides of the street.
The number of troops who joined Liu Quyou, the prime minister of the left, gradually increased. The prince's army failed and fled south to Fu'eng City Gate and out of the city.
On the night of the creation of the sky, the army led by Prime Minister Sizhi Tianren closed the gate to guard the city. Tian Ren was convicted for letting the prince escape from the city, and the left prime minister Liu Quyou wanted to kill Tian Ren.
The imperial censor Yu Shengzhi said to Liu Quyou: "Sizhi is an official of two thousand stone. You should first ask the emperor for instructions on how to deal with it. How can you kill him without permission?"
Liu Quyou released Tian Ren.
Emperor Wu was very angry after hearing the report, and sent officials to question the censor doctor about his sudden victory: Si Zhitianren let the rebels go, and the prime minister killed him in accordance with the law. Why do you stop the prime minister without authorization?
He was so frightened by the sudden victory that he committed suicide.
As for Ren An, the envoy of the Northern Army, he accepted the prince's order to mobilize troops, but was convicted of having second thoughts. Tian Ren let the prince go, and both of them were sentenced to be cut in half.
Emperor Wu said: The minister Mang Tong captured the rebel general Ruhou, and the Chang'an man Jing Jian followed Mang Tong to capture the young master Shi De. It can be said that he made a great contribution.
Dahong Lu and Shang Qiucheng fought hard to capture the traitor Zhang Guang.
Mangtong was granted the title of Chonghehou, Jingjian was granted the title of Dehou, and Shangqiu was granted the title of Jiehou.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
诸太子宾客，尝出入宫门，皆坐诛。
其随太子发兵，以反法族。
吏士劫略者，皆徙敦煌郡。
以太子在外，始置屯兵长安诸城门。
后二十余日，太子得于湖。
语在《太子传》。
其明年，贰师将军李广利将兵出击匈奴，丞相为祖道，送至渭桥，与广利辞决。
广利曰： 愿君侯早请昌邑王为太子。
如立为帝，君侯长何忧乎？
屈氂许诺。
昌邑王者，贰师将军女弟李夫人子也。
贰师女为屈氂子妻，故共欲立焉。
是时，治巫蛊狱急，内者令郭穰告丞相夫人以丞相数有谴，使巫祠社，祝诅主上，有恶言，及与贰师共祷祠，欲令昌邑王为帝。
有司奏请案验，罪至大逆不道。
有诏载屈氂厨车以徇，要斩东市，妻子枭首华阳街。
贰师将军妻子亦收。
贰师闻之，降匈奴，宗族遂灭。
车千秋，本姓田氏，其先齐诸田徙长陵。
千秋为高寝郎。
会卫太子为江充所谮败，久之，千秋上急变讼太子冤，曰： 子弄父兵，罪当笞；天子之子过误杀人，当何罢哉！
臣尝梦见一白头翁教臣言。
是时，上颇知太子惶恐无他意，乃大感寤，召见千秋。
至前，千秋长八尺余，体貌甚丽，武帝见而说之，谓曰： 父子之间，人所难言也，公独明其不然。
此高庙神灵使公教我，公当遂为吾辅佐。
立拜千秋为大鸿胪。
数月，遂代刘屈氂为丞相，封富民侯。
translation: 
The prince's retainers, all who had ever entered or exited the palace, were beheaded.
Those who followed the prince and launched an army to rebel would have their entire families exterminated in accordance with the laws that punished rebels.
Officials and soldiers who took advantage of the chaos to rob were all exiled to Dunhuang County.
Since the prince was on the run, troops were stationed at the gates of Chang'an City from this time on.
More than twenty days later, the prince was captured in Hu County.
The words are in "The Story of the Prince".
The next year, General Li Guang of the Second Division led his troops to attack the Huns. Prime Minister Liu Quyou hosted a farewell banquet for Li Guangli and sent it to Weiqiao. Liu Quyou and Li Guangli said goodbye.
Li Guangli said: I hope that the king will ask the emperor to make the king of Changyi the crown prince soon.
If King Changyi is established as emperor, what will you worry about in the future?
Liu Quyou agreed to Li Guangli's request.
King Changyi was the son of Li Guangli's sister, Mrs. Li.
Li Guangli's daughter was the wife of Liu Quya's son, so both Li Guangli and Liu Quya wanted to make the king of Changyi the crown prince.
At this time, the investigation of the witchcraft prison was very tight. The insider ordered Guo Chen to report the wife of Prime Minister Liu Qumo because Liu Qumo was reprimanded by the emperor many times, instructing the wizard to curse the emperor when offering sacrifices to the earth god. There were vicious words, and Liu Qumo and Li Guangli prayed and sacrificed together, hoping to make King Changyi the emperor.
The officials in charge reported the matter to Emperor Wu and requested an interrogation and examination. Emperor Wu approved it, and the investigators convicted Liu Quya of treason.
Emperor Wu ordered Liu Quya to be put on a cart carrying food and paraded through the streets, and then beheaded in half in Shushi, Chang'an. Liu Quli's wife was taken to Huayang Street and beheaded in public.
Li Guangli's wife and children were also imprisoned.
When Li Guangli heard the news, he surrendered to the Huns and all his clan were executed.
Che Qianqiu's original surname was Tian, ​​and his ancestors were the Tian family from Qi State in the Spring and Autumn Period. Later, a branch of the Tian family moved to Changling County.
Che Qianqiu served as the official guarding the tomb of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
When Prince Wei was slandered by Jiang Chong and was defeated, after a long encounter, Che Qianqiu submitted a memorial of serious emergency, defending the crown prince, saying: The son who played tricks on his father's army should be whipped; the emperor's son accidentally killed someone due to negligence, what crime should he be sentenced to?
I once saw an old man with white hair in a dream who told me how to convict someone.
At this time, Emperor Wu already knew clearly that the prince sent troops out of fear and had no intention of rebellion. After reading Che Qianqiu's letter, he was deeply touched and came to his senses, so he summoned Che Qianqiu.
Che Qianqiu came forward to pay homage to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu saw that Che Qianqiu was more than eight feet tall and handsome and liked him very much. He said to him: It is difficult for others to talk about matters between father and son. Only you understand that this is not the case.
This is the god of Gaomiao asking you to enlighten me, so you should be my assistant.
Immediately ordered the car to be sealed for Qianqiu as Da Honglu.
A few months later, he succeeded Liu Quyou as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Fumin.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
千秋无他材能术学，又无伐阅功劳，特以一言寤意，旬月取宰相封侯，世未尝有也。
反汉使者至匈奴，单于问曰： 闻汉新拜丞相，何用得之？
使者曰： 以上书言事故。
单于曰： 苟如是，汉置丞相，非用贤也，妄一男子上书即得之矣。
使者还，道单于语。
武帝以为辱命，欲下之吏。
良久，乃贳之。
然千秋为人敦厚有智，居位自称，逾于前后数公。
初，千秋始视事，见上连年治太子狱，诛罚尤多，群下恐惧，思欲宽广上意，尉安众庶。
乃与御史、中二千石共上寿颂德美，劝上施恩惠，缓刑罚，玩听音乐，养志和神，为天下自虞乐。
上报曰： 朕之不德，自左丞相与贰师阴谋逆乱，巫蛊之祸流及士大夫。朕日一食者累月，乃何乐之听？
痛士大夫常在心，既事不咎。
虽然，巫蛊始发，诏丞相、御史督二千石求捕，廷尉治，未闻九卿、廷尉有所鞫也。
曩者，江充先治甘泉宫人，转至未央椒房，以及敬声之畴、李禹之属谋人匈奴，有司无所发，令丞相亲掘兰台蛊验，所明知也。
毋有复言。 后岁余，武帝疾，立皇子钩弋夫人男为太子，拜大将军霍光、车骑将军金日磾、御史大夫桑弘羊及丞相千秋，并受遗诏，辅道少主。
武帝崩，昭帝初即位，未任听政，政事一决大将军光。
translation: 
Che Qianqiu had no other talents or knowledge in Confucian arts, nor any achievements or qualifications. He only made Emperor Wu realize with one sentence that the prince's death was unjust, and he was made prime minister and made a prince within ten months. This was unprecedented in the world.
Later, when an envoy from the Han Dynasty went to the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu Chanyu asked him: I heard that the Han Dynasty appointed a new prime minister. Why did he get the position of prime minister?
The messenger replied: Because of the things mentioned in the letter.
Shan Yu said: If this is the case, the Han Dynasty will set up a prime minister, and it will not require talented people, just any man can get it by submitting a letter.
After the envoy returned, he reported to Emperor Wu what Shan Yu had said.
Emperor Wu thought that the envoy was a disgrace to his mission and wanted to hand him over to the officials.
After a long time, he was released.
However, Che Qianqiu was kind-hearted and resourceful, and he was very competent in the position of prime minister, surpassing those before and after him.
Che Qianqiu had just started to take charge of the work of the prime minister. He saw that Emperor Wu was pursuing the case of the prince's unjust death for many years, and many people were killed and punished.
So together with the censor and Zhong Erqianshi, he congratulated Emperor Wu on his birthday, praised the emperor's virtues, and urged the emperor to extend favors, reduce sentences and punishments, enjoy music, nourish the spirit, and seek entertainment for the sake of the people of the world.
Emperor Wu replied: "I don't show kindness. It started when Prime Minister Liu Quyou of the Left and General Li Guangli of the Second Division secretly conspired to rebel. The disaster of witchcraft and poison spread to the scholar-bureaucrats. I have only eaten one meal a day for several months. What kind of music do I still listen to?"
The scholar-bureaucrats who often grieve over the death of the prince in battle cannot pursue the matter anymore in the past.
Even so, when the witchcraft disaster first occurred, the Prime Minister and Jiao Shi were ordered to supervise the county guards to search for and arrest the people, and the Ting Wei tried to interrogate them, but they did not hear anything from Jiu Qing and Ting Wei.
In the past, Jiang Chong interrogated people from Ganquan Palace and then transferred to Jiaofang Palace where the Empress of Weiyang Palace lived. Later, Gongsun Jingsheng and Li Yu conspired to seduce the Xiongnu. The relevant officials found no evidence of crime. Now the prime minister personally excavated Lantai to check for witchcraft, and he clearly knew that witchcraft existed.
Until now, there are still wizards who practice witchcraft and evil spirits, and evil thieves invade the body. There are wizards from far and near who secretly cast witchcraft. I feel very ashamed. What else is worth wishing for my birthday? Thank you for your kindness. I will not serve you the birthday wine! Please tell the Prime Minister and the two thousand stone officials to return to their official residences. "Shang Shu. Zhou Shu. "Hong Fan" said: Don't be paranoid, don't be protective, the way of the Holy King is open and unobstructed, don't go to court again because of this matter. More than a year later, Emperor Wu became seriously ill and appointed the prince born to Mrs. Gou Yi as the crown prince. He ordered General Huo Guang, Chariot and Cavalry General Jin Yuetan, Imperial Censor Sang Hongyang and Prime Minister Che Qianqiu to accept the imperial edict and assist in educating the young master Liu Fuling.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty passed away and Emperor Zhao just came to the throne, he could not handle political affairs. All government affairs were decided by the general Huo Guang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
千秋居丞相位，谨厚有重德。
每公卿朝会，光谓千秋曰： 始与君侯俱受先帝遗诏，今光治内，君侯治外，宜有以教督，使光毋负天下。
千秋曰： 唯将军留意，即天下幸甚。
终不肯有所言。
光以此重之。
每有吉祥嘉应，数褒赏丞相。
讫昭帝世，国家少事，百姓稍益充实。
始元六年，诏郡国举贤良文学士，问以民所疾苦，于是盐铁之议起焉。
千秋为相十二年，薨，谥曰定侯。
初，千秋年老，上优之，朝见，得乘小车入宫殿中，故因号曰 车丞相 。
子顺嗣侯，官至云中太守，宣帝时以虎牙将军击匈奴，坐盗增卤获自杀，国除。
桑弘羊为御史大夫八年，自以为国家兴榷管之利，伐其功，欲为子弟得官，怨望霍光，与上官桀等谋反，遂诛灭。
王欣，济南人也。
以郡县吏积功，稍迁为被阳令。
武帝末，军旅数发，郡国盗贼群起，绣衣御史暴胜之使持斧逐捕盗贼，以军兴从事，诛二千石以下。
胜之过被阳，欲斩欣，欣已解衣伏质，仰言曰： 使君颛杀生之柄，威震郡国，令夏斩一欣，不足以增威，不如时有所宽，以明恩贷，令尽死力。
胜之壮其言，贳不诛，因与相结厚。
胜之使还，荐欣，征为右辅都尉，守右扶风。
上数出幸安定、北地，过扶风，宫馆驰道修治，供张办。
武帝嘉之，驻车，拜欣为真，视事十余年。
昭帝时为御史大夫，代车千秋为丞相，封宜春侯。
translation: 
Che Qianqiu is the prime minister, loyal, honest and virtuous.
Whenever ministers and ministers met, Huo Guang would say to Che Qianqiu: "Back then, I accepted the Emperor's mission with you. Now that Huo Guang is in charge of internal affairs and you are in charge of foreign affairs, what should I have to enlighten and urge me so that I don't let down the trust of the people of the world?"
Che Qianqiu said: General, please pay more attention, it will be the greatest honor in the world.
He always refused to express any objection to Huo Guang's dictatorship.
Huo Guang therefore valued Che Qianqiu very much.
Every time an auspicious occasion appears, he will praise and reward the prime minister with a thousand-year-old car.
Until the death of Emperor Zhao, the country had few affairs and the people gradually became rich and fulfilled.
In the sixth year of the First Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Zhao Shao ordered the county to recommend virtuous and literary people, and asked them about the sufferings of the people, which led to the discussion of salt and iron.
Che Qianqiu served as prime minister for twelve years. After his death, Mi was named Dinghou.
At first, when Che Qianqiu was old, the emperor treated him favorably and showed up to the court. He was allowed to enter the palace in a small car, so he was known as the "Prime Minister of Cars".
Che Qianqiu's son Tian Shun succeeded him as a marquis and became the prefect of Yunzhong County. At that time, Emperor Xuan was serving as General Huya to attack the Xiongnu. He was convicted of committing suicide for illegally increasing the number of prisoners and taking credit, and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sang Hongyang worked as a censor for eight years. He thought it would benefit the country and boasted about his achievements. He wanted to get official positions for the children of the Sang family. He resented Huo Guang and rebelled against Shangguan Jie and others, and was finally executed.
Wang Xin is from Jinan County.
As a junior official in the county, he accumulated merit and was gradually promoted to the magistrate of Baiyang County.
In the last years of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the army often went on expeditions, and thieves gathered in the counties and counties. The embroidered censor's sudden victory directed the envoys to hunt down the thieves with axes, and dealt with the property collected by the local officials according to the amount of property collected and handed over to the court for military use. Officials with less than 2,000 dan who disobeyed orders were executed.
Baoshengzhi inspected Beiyang and wanted to kill Wang Xin. Wang Xin had undressed and was lying on the chopping board under the guillotine. Gongxin raised his head and said to Baoshengzhi: You have the power of life and death and are powerful in the county. Killing another Wang Xin now will not increase your prestige. It is better to be lenient according to the situation to show your kindness and mercy. Let me try my best to repay you.
Bao Shengzhi admired what he said and forgave him without killing him. Therefore, Bao Shengzhi and Wang Xin became close friends.
After Shengzhi completed his mission and returned to Beijing, he recommended Wang Xin to the emperor. Emperor Wu recruited him to serve as the captain of Youfu, acting as Youfu Feng.
Emperor Wu visited Saitong and Jiidi many times. When he passed through Diehuang, Tanqiu sent people to clean the palace, make the roads smooth, and set up curtains and curtains for comfort.
Emperor Wu was very happy, commended Wang Xin, stopped the car, and changed Wang Xin's official position to a regular one, and he ruled for more than ten years.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Wang Xin served as the imperial censor, succeeded Che Qianqiu as prime minister, and was named Marquis of Yichun.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
明年薨，谥曰敬侯。
子谭嗣，以列侯与谋废昌邑王立宣帝，益封三百户。
薨，子咸嗣。
王莽妻即咸女，莽篡位，宜春氏以外戚宠。
自訢传国至玄孙，莽败，乃绝。
杨敞，华阴人也。
给事大将军莫府，为军司马，霍光爱厚之，稍迁至大司农。
元凤中，稻田使者燕仓知上官桀等反谋，以告敞。
敞素谨累事，不敢言，乃移病卧。
以告谏大夫杜延年，延年以闻。
苍、延年皆封，敞以九卿不辄言，故不得侯。
后迁御史大夫，代王为丞相，封安平侯。
明年，昭帝崩。
昌邑王征即位，淫乱，大将军光与车骑将军张安世谋欲废王更立。
议既定，使大司农田延年报敞。
敞惊惧，不知所言，汗出洽背，徒唯唯而已。
延年起至更衣，敞夫人遽从东箱谓敞曰： 此国大事，今大将军议已定，使九卿来报君侯。
君侯不疾应，与大将军同心，犹与无决，先事诛矣。
延年从更衣还，敞、夫人与延年参语许诺，请奉大将军教令，遂共废昌邑王，立宣帝。
宣帝即位月余，敞薨，谥曰敬侯。
子忠嗣，以敞居位定策安宗庙，益封三千五百户。
忠弟惲，字子幼，以忠任为郎，补常侍骑，惲母，司马迁女也。
惲始读外祖《太史公记》，颇为《春秋》。
以材能称。
好交英俊诸儒，名显朝廷，擢为左曹。
translation: 
He died the next year and was named Jinghou.
Wang Xin's son Wang Tan inherited his father's title, and as a prince participated in the plan to abolish the king of Changyi, support Emperor Xuan, and increase the number of 300 households in the land.
After Wang Tan died, his son Wang Xian inherited his title.
Yucha's wife was Wang Sheng's daughter. After Wang Chai usurped the throne, Wang Sheng's family respected her because she was a relative.
Starting from Wang Xin, the feudal state was passed down to Great-grandson, and was discontinued after Wang Mang's defeat.
Yang Chang is from Huayin County.
When he served in the general Tingguang shogunate, he was appointed military commander. Huo Guang liked and treated him favorably, and he was gradually promoted to chief agricultural officer.
During the Wuhuang period of Guitong, the rice field envoy You Dong learned of the rebellion conspiracy of Emperor Jie and others and informed Yang Chang of the matter.
Yang Chang was always cautious and fearful, and did not dare to report to Emperor Zhao, so he wrote a letter claiming to be ill and emigrated.
Yan Cang told the news to Du Yannian, the admonishing doctor, and Du Yannian reported it to Emperor Zhao.
Yan Cang and Du Yannian were both granted the title of marquis for their meritorious service. As the ninth minister, Yang Chang heard the news of the rebellion but failed to report it in time, so he was not granted the title of marquis.
Later, he was promoted to imperial censor, succeeded Wang Xin as prime minister, and was granted the title of Marquis of Anping.
In the second year, Emperor Zhao died.
The king of Changyi came to Beijing to take the throne after being summoned by the ministers. He was promiscuous and immoral. The general Huo Guang conspired with the chariot general Zhang Anshi to depose the king of Luyi and reestablish the emperor.
It was agreed upon that Da Si’s farmland would be extended to inform Yang Chang.
Yang Chang was very frightened after hearing this. He didn't know what to say. His back was wet with sweat and he could only make a "weiwei" sound.
Tian Yannian got up and went to the dressing room to change clothes. Yang Chang's wife hurriedly came out of the side room and said to Yang Chang: This is a national event. Now the general's plan has been decided. I asked Dasi Nanyang Yannian to tell you.
If you don't agree quickly and work together with the general, if you hesitate, you will be killed first.
When Tian Yannian came back from the dressing room, both Yang Chang and his wife and Tian Yannian agreed with the general's decision and asked to obey the general's order. So the court ministers deposed King Changyi and established Emperor Xuan.
More than a month after Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Yang Chang died, and Mi was named Jinghou.
His son Yang Zhong inherited the title. Because Yang Chang was the prime minister, he participated in the formulation of the strategy of deposing the king of Changyi and replacing him with Emperor Xuan. He made great contributions to the stabilization of the Moshi ancestral temple and the increase of 3,500 households in the city.
Yang Zhong's younger brother Yang Yun, named Ziyou, relied on Yang Zhong's official position and was appointed Lang Guan according to the Han Dynasty's son appointment system, filling the post of Chang Shiqi. Yang Yun's mother was Sima Qian's daughter.
Yang Yun first read "Tai Shi Gong Ji" written by his grandfather, and was also familiar with "Spring and Autumn".
Because of his talent, he is praised by people.
He liked to make friends with handsome and outstanding Confucian scholars. He became famous in the court and was promoted to Zuocao.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
霍氏谋反，惲先闻知，因侍中金安上以闻，召见言状。
霍氏伏诛，惲等五人皆封，惲为平通侯，迁中郎将。
郎官故事，令郎出钱市财用，给文书，乃得出，名曰 山郎 。
移病尽一日，辄偿一沐，或至岁余不得沐。
其豪富郎，日出游戏，或行钱得善部。
货赂流行，传相放效。
惲为中郎将，罢山郎，移长度大司农，以给财用。
其疾病休谒洗沐，皆以法令从事。
郎、谒者有罪过，辄奏免，荐举其高弟有行能者，至郡守、九卿。
郎官化之，莫不自厉，绝请谒货赂之端，令行禁止，宫殿之内翕然同声。
由是擢为诸吏光禄勋，亲近用事。
初，惲受父财五百万，及身封侯，皆以分宗族。
后母无子，财亦数百万，死皆子惲，惲尽复分后母昆弟。
再受訾千余万，皆以分施。
其轻财好义如此。
惲居殿中，廉洁无私，郎官称公平。
然惲伐其行治，又性刻害，好发人阴伏，同位有忤己者，必欲害之，以其能高人。由是多怨于朝廷，与太仆戴长乐相失，卒以是败。
长乐者，宣帝在民间时与相知，及即位，拔擢亲近。
长乐尝使行事肄宗庙，还谓掾史曰： 我亲面见受诏，副帝肄，秺侯御。
人有上书告长乐非所宜言，事下廷尉。
长乐疑惲教人告之，亦上书告惲罪。
translation: 
Yang Yun first heard about the Huo family's rebellion and reported it to the emperor through his servant Jin An. The emperor summoned Yang Yun and asked him to report the Huo family's rebellion.
The Huo family pleaded guilty and were executed. Yang Yun and five other people were awarded titles for their merits in the prosecution. Yang Yun was made Hutonghou and promoted to Zhonglang General.
The old practice of Lang Guan was to ask Lang Gong to pay the property expenses and provide documents himself before he got the opportunity to serve as an additional official, so he was also called "Shan Lang".
If a lieutenant takes sick leave for a full day, he must use a vacation day to make up for it. Some lieutenants cannot get a vacation for more than a year.
Nazhe: Lang officials who came from rich families went out to have fun and play all day long. Some used money to pay bribes to get jobs in good departments.
Bribery is popular and everyone is imitating it.
Yang Yun served as Zhonglang General, exempted from the old practice of "Shanlang", and handed over the annual expenditure plan of Langguan's office to Da Sinong, who provided financial expenses.
Lang Guan's sick leave, family leave, and family leave are all handled in accordance with the law.
If any of the ministers or visitors committed a crime, they would be removed from office. Those who had excellent work in the palace and had both ability and political integrity would be recommended to be promoted to officials.
The ministers were enlightened by this, and they all motivated themselves to perform their duties diligently. They got rid of the shortcomings of asking for favors and giving gifts, and enforced orders and prohibitions. The ministers in the palace worked together as one.
Therefore, the emperor promoted Yang Yun to the position of Guang Luxun among the officials and became a trusted minister to handle political affairs.
At first, Yang Yun accepted five million in money from his father. When he was granted the title of Pingtong Hou, he gave all the money his father gave him to people of the same clan.
His stepmother had no sons and had millions of money, which she left to Yang Yun after her death, and Yang Yun gave it all to his stepmother's brothers.
Yang Yun inherited a total of more than 10 million in money twice, and he took it all out and distributed it to others.
This is how he takes money lightly and loves justice.
As an official in the palace, Yang Yun was honest and selfless, and all the officials praised him for his fairness.
However, Yang Yun often boasted about his virtue and ability to do things. He was also mean by nature and liked to expose other people's secrets. If any of his colleagues disobeyed him, he would definitely try to harm him. He relied on his ability to be arrogant and domineering. Therefore, he offended many people in the court, fell out with Dai Changle, the imperial servant, and finally ruined himself because of this incident.
Dai Changle was Emperor Xuan's close friend among the people. When Emperor Xuan came to the throne, he promoted him to a trusted minister.
Dai Changle once performed the emperor's affairs on his behalf when practicing the rituals of the ancestral temple. When he came back, he said to the emperor: I met the emperor and accepted Shao's order to practice the etiquette on the emperor's behalf. The prince of Wei drove me.
Someone reported in a divination that Dai Changle had spoken inappropriately, and the emperor handed the matter over to Tingwei for trial.
Dai Changle suspected that Yang Yun instigated others to report him, so he also wrote a letter to accuse Yang Yun of his crime, saying:


Chunk 8: 
original: 
高昌侯车奔入北掖门，惲语富平侯张延寿曰： 闻前曾有奔车抵殿门，门关折，马死，而昭帝崩。
今复如此，天时，非人力也。 左冯翊韩延寿有罪下狱，惲上书讼延寿。
郎中丘常谓惲曰： 闻君侯讼韩冯翊，当得活乎？
惲曰： 事何容易！
胫胫者未必全也。
我不能自保，真人所谓鼠不容穴衔窭数者也。 又中书谒者令宣持单于使者语，视诸将军、中朝二千石。
惲曰： 冒顿单于得汉美食好物，谓之殠恶，单于不来明甚。
惲上观西阁上画人，指桀、纣画谓乐昌侯王武曰： 天子过此，一二问其过，可以得师矣。 画人有尧、舜、禹、汤，不称而举桀、纣。
惲闻匈奴降者道单于见杀，惲曰： 得不肖君，大臣为画善计不用，自令身无处所。
若秦时但任小臣，诛杀忠良，竟以灭亡；令亲任大臣，即至今耳。
古与今如一丘之貉。 惲妄引亡国以诽谤当世，无人臣礼。
又语长乐曰： 正月以来，天阴不雨，此《春秋》所记，夏侯君所言。
行必不至河东矣。 以主上为戏语，尤悖逆绝理。
事下廷尉。
廷尉定国考问，左验明白，奏：
惲不服罪，而召户将尊，欲令戒饬富平侯延寿，曰： 太仆定有死罪数事，朝暮人也。
惲幸与富平侯婚姻，今独三人坐语，侯言 时不闻惲语 ，自与太仆相触也。 尊曰： 不可。
惲怒，持大刀，曰： 蒙富平侯力，得族罪！
毋泄惲语，令太仆闻之乱余事。
惲幸得列九卿诸吏，宿卫近臣，上所信任，与闻政事，不竭忠爱，尽臣子义，而妄怨望，称引为訞恶言，大逆不道，请逮捕治。
上不忍加诛，有诏皆免惲、长乐为庶人。
惲既失爵位，家居治产业，起室宅，以财自娱。
岁余，其友人安定太守西河孙会宗，知略士也，与惲书谏戒之，为言大臣废退，当阖门惶惧，为可怜之意，不当治产业，通宾客，有称誉。
惲宰相子，少显朝廷，一朝以暗昧语言见废，内怀不服，报会宗书曰：
translation: 
Dong Zhong, the Marquis of Gaochang, drove into Beiye Gate. Yang Yun said to Zhang Yanshou, the Marquis of Fuping: I heard that a Mercedes-Benz car crashed into the palace gate before, breaking the latch and killing the horse. Then Emperor Zhao died.
Now something like this happened again. It was destiny, not man-made. Zuo Fengyi and Han Yanshou were convicted and imprisoned, and Yang Yun wrote a letter to defend him.
The doctor Qiu Chang said to Yang Yun: I heard that you defended Han Fengyi. Can you save him?
Yang Yun said: How can things be so easy!
An upright person may not be able to protect himself.
I can't save it in vain, just like people say that a mouse cannot enter the hole because it has a sinus number in its mouth that is larger than the mouth of the mouse hole. Once again, Zhongshu Ye ordered Xuan to translate the words of the Xiongnu Chanyu envoy into words and show them to the generals and the two thousand stone officials of China and Korea.
Yang Yun said: "Modun Chanyu received the delicious food as a reward from the Han Dynasty, but he said it was rotten and smelly. Isn't it obvious that the Chanyu did not come to see him?"
Yang Yun looked at the figures painted on Xihe, pointed to the portraits of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou and said to Wang Wu, the Marquis of Lechang: When the emperor passes by this place, he can learn from it by asking about the mistakes Jie and Zhou committed. The characters in the book include Yao, Shun, Yu and Tang. Yang Yun does not praise them, but lists Jie and Zhou.
When Yang Yun heard that the Xiongnu surrenderers said that Shanyu had been killed, he said: There is such an unwise monarch. The good plans planned by the ministers are not used, but he himself is destroyed.
Just as the Qin Dynasty only appointed treacherous and sycophantic ministers as its ministers, and killed the loyal and good, and eventually perished because of it; if it had been able to appoint wise and upright ministers, the Qin Dynasty could have continued to this day.
The bad guys in ancient times and today are like the same breed. Yang Yun arbitrarily quoted the example of the country's subjugation to slander the current court, without the etiquette of a minister.
Yang Yun also said to me, Dai Changle: Since the first month, the weather has been cloudy and rainless for a long time. This celestial phenomenon is recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals, and Xia Housheng said this when he advised the king of Changyi.
The emperor must not go to the Houtu Temple in Hedong to offer sacrifices. Yang Yun made fun of the emperor, which was especially rebellious and violated ethics.
Yang Yun's case was handed over to Ting Wei for trial.
Tingwei conducted an interrogation in Dingguo and found out Jinqing with the evidence of witnesses.
Yu Dingguo reported to the emperor: Yang Yun did not plead guilty, but secretly summoned the general, hoping that he would warn Fuping Marquis Zhang Yanshou, saying that Dai Changle, the imperial servant, had several things that could lead to death, and he would be executed sooner or later.
Yang Yun is fortunate enough to be married to Marquis Fuping. Now only the three of you have talked about Yang Yun's case together. As long as Marquis Fuping says that he did not hear Yang Yun say anything at that time, it will naturally conflict with what the servant revealed. General Hu said, "No."
Yang Yun was furious, holding a big sword in his hand, and said: If the servant gets help from Fupinghou, and according to the testimony revealed by the servant, I will be sentenced to genocide!
You are not allowed to reveal what I said. If the servant knows these words, it will increase my other crimes.
Yang Yun was lucky enough to be ranked as the ninth minister, and he served as a minister of Guangluxun. He was a close guard of the imperial court. He was trusted by the emperor and participated in political affairs. Instead of being loyal to the emperor and caring for the people, and fulfilling his duties as a minister, he arrogantly vented his resentment, spread evil words, and was treasonous. He requested to be arrested and punished.
Emperor Xuan could not bear to sentence him to death. Xia Shao exempted Yang Yun and Dai Changle from being civilians.
After Yang Yun lost his title, he ran businesses at home, built houses, and relied on money to make himself happy.
More than a year later, his friend Sun Huizong from Xihe, the prefect of Anding County, was a man of intelligence and strategy. He wrote to Yang Yun to advise him, telling him that after ministers were dismissed from office and retired, they should shut themselves up and think about their mistakes, be frightened, behave in a pitiable manner, and should not run businesses, make friends with guests, and have a reputation that is praised by others.
Yang Yun was the son of Prime Minister Yang Chang. He was famous in the court when he was young. Once he was deposed because of some unidentified remarks, he felt dissatisfied and wrote a reply to Sun Huizong:


Chunk 9: 
original: 
惲材朽行秽，文质无所底，幸赖先人余业得备宿卫，遭遇时变以获爵位，终非其任，卒与祸会。
足下哀其愚，蒙赐书，教督以所不及，殷勤甚厚。
然窃恨足下不深惟其终始，而猥随俗之毁誉也。
言鄙陋之愚心，若逆指而文过，默而息乎，恐违孔氏 各言尔志 之义，故敢略陈其愚，唯君子察焉！
惲家方隆盛时，乘朱轮者十人，位在列卿，爵为通侯，总领从官，与闻政事，曾不能以此时有所建明，以宣德化，又不能与群僚同心并力，陪辅朝廷之遗忘，已负窃位素餐之责久矣。
怀禄贪势，不能自退，遭遇变故，横被口语，身幽北阙，妻子满狱。
当此之时，自以夷灭不足以塞责，岂意得全首领，复奉先人之丘墓乎？
伏惟圣主之恩，不可胜量。
君子游道，乐以忘忧；小人全躯，说以忘罪。
窃自思念，过已大矣，行已亏矣，长为农夫以没世矣。
是故身率妻子，戮力耕桑，灌园治产，以给公上，不意当复用此为讥议也。
夫人情所不能止者，圣人弗禁，故君父至尊亲，送其终也，有时而既。
臣之得罪，已三年矣。
田家作苦，岁时伏腊，亨羊炰羔，斗酒自劳。
家本秦也，能为秦声。
妇，赵女也，雅善鼓瑟。
奴婢歌者数人，酒后耳热，仰天拊缶而呼乌乌。
其诗曰： 田彼南山，芜秽不治，种一顷豆，落而为其。
人生行乐耳，须富贵何时！
是日也，拂衣而喜，奋袖低卬，顿足起舞，诚淫荒无度，不知其不可也。
惲幸有余禄，方籴贱贩贵，逐什一之利，此贾竖之事，污辱之处，惲亲行之。
下流之人，众毁所归，不寒而栗。
虽雅知惲者，犹随风而靡，尚何称誉之有！
translation: 
I have low talents, despicable behavior, and no foundation in academic accomplishment. Fortunately, I relied on the merits left by my father and was able to serve as a guard in the court. When I encountered the Huo family's rebellion, I was awarded a title for my merits in reporting on it, but I was not qualified after all, and finally suffered disaster.
I feel sorry for my ignorance, and I am grateful for this letter, which teaches and explains the truth that I have not realized. My sincere affection is profound.
But I privately complained that I did not think deeply about the whole story and easily believed the slanders of worldly people.
Let me tell you my humble and stupid thoughts, as if I have violated the will of my subordinates, and I am trying to justify my mistakes; I should remain silent, and I am afraid of betraying the meaning of Confucius' "Each person expresses his ambition," so I dare to briefly state my humble opinion. Please consider it.
When my family was prosperous, there were ten people riding the chariot, among the nine ministers, with the title of marquis, commanding the attendants, and participating in court affairs. However, I was unable to make any achievements at this time, to promote the emperor's virtues and education, and I could not work together with the officials to assist the court in filling vacancies. I have been accused of stealing official positions for a long time.
I was greedy for salary and power, and could not retire on my own initiative. I encountered changes and was slandered by others. I was imprisoned in the Guanlou to the north of the palace. My wife and children were also imprisoned in prison.
At this time, I felt that extermination of the clan would not be able to compensate for the crime. How could I have thought that I could save my life and worship the tombs of my ancestors?
I feel that the grace of Emperor Shengming is truly immeasurable.
A gentleman pursues morality and justice and is happy but forgets his worries; a villain preserves his life and is happy but forgets his sins.
I thought privately that my sins were already great and my character was lacking, so I should spend the rest of my life as a farmer.
So he led his wife and children, worked hard to cultivate crops and mulberry trees, irrigate gardens, run industries, and pay taxes to the court. Unexpectedly, he was ridiculed and criticized for this.
Things that cannot be avoided by human relationships are not forbidden even by saints. Therefore, even if it is the most noble monarch or the closest father, the funeral for them has to come to an end.
It has been three years since I was convicted.
When farmers work hard, they cook mutton and lamb every year during the solstice and twelfth lunar month, and pour wine to masturbate.
My hometown was originally in Qin, and I can sing songs from Qin.
My wife is a woman who walks on the ground and is good at playing the harp.
There are also some slaves who can sing. After drinking, their ears will become hot, they will look up to the sky, beat the fou with their hands, and sing a black song.
The lyrics of the song go: The fields in the southern mountains are filthy and untamed. If you plant a hectare of beans, they will fall into bean sprouts.
To enjoy life, you need to be wealthy!
On days like this, I was so happy that I shook my clothes, waved my sleeves, sometimes lowered, sometimes raised, stamping my feet and dancing. It was so indulgent that I didn't know why it couldn't work.
Fortunately, I still had some money left over from my salary, so I bought low and sold high, in pursuit of a tenth of the profit. This is what businessmen do, and it is also a shameful thing, and I have done it myself.
People with low status are the targets of slander. I shudder when I think about this.
Even people who know me very well slander me, so how can anyone praise me?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
董生不云乎？ 明明求仁义，常恐不能化民者，卿大夫意也；明明求财利，常恐困乏者，庶人之事也。
故 道不同，不相为谋。
今子尚安得以卿大夫之制而责仆哉！
夫西河魏土，文侯所兴，有段干木、田子方之遗风，漂然皆有节概，知去就之分。
顷者，足下离旧土，临安定，安定山谷之间，昆戎旧壤，子弟贪鄙，岂习俗之移人哉？
于今乃睹子之志矣。方当盛汉之隆，愿勉旃，毋多谈。
又惲兄子安平侯谭为典属国，谓惲曰： 西河太守建平杜侯前以罪过出，今征为御史大夫。
侯罪薄，又有功，且复用。
惲曰： 有功何益？
县官不足为尽力。
惲素与盖宽饶、韩延寿善，谭即曰： 县官实然，盖司隶、韩冯翊皆尽力吏也，俱坐事诛。
会有日食变，驺马猥佐成上书告惲 骄奢不悔过，日食之咎，此人所致。
章下廷尉案验，得所予会宗书，宣帝见而恶之。
廷尉当惲大逆无道，要斩。
妻子徙酒泉郡。
谭坐不谏正惲，与相应，有怨望语，免为庶人。
召拜成为郎，诸在位与惲厚善者，未央卫尉韦玄成、京兆尹张敞及孙会宗等，皆免官。
蔡义，河内温人也。
以明经给事大将军莫府。
家贫，常步行，资礼不逮众门下，好事者相合为义买犊车，令乘之。
数岁，迁补覆盎城门候。
久之，诏求能为《韩诗》者，征义待诏，久不进见。
义上疏曰： 臣山东草莱之人，行能亡所比，容貌不及众，然而不弃人伦者，窃以闻道于先师，自托于经术也。
愿赐清闲之燕，得尽精思于前。
translation: 
Didn't Dong Zhongshu say that those who work diligently and diligently to pursue benevolence and righteousness often worry about not being able to educate the people is a matter for the officials; those who diligently and diligently pursue wealth and gain often worry about living in poverty are a matter for the common people.
Therefore Confucius said: If the ways are different, they should not conspire against each other.
How can you still use Doctor Qing's code of conduct to blame me now?
Xihe was the land of the Wei State during the Warring States Period. It was the place where Wei Wenhou rose. Duan Ganmu and Tian Zifang had the style of sending people to stay. Both wise men had noble moral integrity and magnanimity, and knew the right amount of resignation and appointment.
Recently, I left my hometown of Xihe and arrived at Anding County. It is located in the valley and is the old land of Kunrong. The people there are greedy and despicable. Is it because the local customs have changed your character?
It is only today that I see your ambition clearly. It is the heyday of the Han Dynasty. I hope you will work hard to establish your reputation. There is no need to discuss it with me anymore.
Anpinghou Yang Tan, the son of Yang Yun's brother Yang Zhong, was appointed as a vassal. He told Yang Yun: Du Yannian, a native of Jianping, the governor of Xihe County, was dismissed from his official position due to crimes. Now he is recruited as a censor.
If you have committed a minor crime and have made meritorious deeds, you will be re-appointed.
Yang Yun said: What is the use of having merit?
The Emperor is not worthy of my efforts for him.
Yang Yun had always been on good terms with Gai Kuorao and Han Yanshou. Yang Tan immediately said: This is indeed the case with your Majesty. Gai Sili and Han Fengyi were both officials who worked hard for the imperial court, but they were all killed for trivial matters.
At this time, there was a solar eclipse, and a low-level official named Cheng, who was in charge of carriages and horses, wrote a letter to accuse Yang Yun of being arrogant and unrepentant, and he was the cause of the solar eclipse disaster.
Emperor Xuan handed this memorial to Tingwei for interrogation and examination. During the interrogation, a letter written by Yang Yun to Sun Huizong was found. Emperor Xuan hated Yang Pan after reading it.
Tingwei convicted Yang Yun of treason and immorality and sentenced him to beheaded in half.
His wife and children were exiled to Jiuquan County.
Yang Tan did not persuade Yang Yun to repent, but instead interacted with him, made resentful remarks, removed him from his official position, and demoted him to a civilian.
Emperor Xuan summoned and appointed Cheng Langguan. Those who were serving as officials and had a close friendship with Yang Yun, such as Wei Xuancheng, the Weiyang palace guard, Zhang Chang, Jingzhao Yin, and Sun Huizong, were all dismissed from their official positions.
Cai Yi was born in Wen County, Hanoi County.
Because he was proficient in classics, he served in the shogunate.
My family is very poor and I often walk. Being poor and unable to prepare gifts, some good-hearted people among the family pooled their money and bought Cai Yi a bullock cart for him to ride on.
A few years later, Cai Yisheng served as the gatekeeper of the city gate.
After a long time, the emperor issued an edict to look for people who could master "Han Shi" and recruited Cai Yi to wait for the edict, but he could not see the emperor for a long time.
Cai Yishangshu said: I am a commoner in the fields of Shandong. My virtue, intelligence and appearance are not comparable to others, but I have not abandoned human relations. This is because I privately learned morality from my ancestors and devoted myself to Confucian classics.
I hope that Your Majesty will grant me a quiet and peaceful place so that I can devote all my careful thinking on the meaning of the scriptures.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
上召见义，说《诗》，甚说之，擢为光禄大夫给事中，进授昭帝。
数岁，拜为少府，迁御史大夫，代杨敝为丞相，封阳平侯。
又以定策安宗庙益封，加赐黄金二百斤。
义为丞相时年八十余，短小无须眉，貌似老妪，行步俯偻，常两吏扶夹乃能行。
时大将军光秉政，议者或言光置宰相不选贤，苟用可专制者。
光闻之，谓侍中左右及官属曰： 以为人主师当为宰相，何谓云云？
此语不可使天下闻也。
义为相四岁，薨，谥曰节侯。
无子，国除。
陈万年字幼公，沛郡相人也。
为郡吏，察举，至县令，迁广陵太守，以高弟入为右扶风，迁太仆。
万年廉平，内行修，然善事人。赂遗外戚许、史，倾家自尽，尤事乐陵侯史高。
丞相丙吉病，中二千石上谒问疾。
遣家丞出谢，谢已皆去，万年独留，昏夜乃归。
及吉病甚，上自临，问以大臣行能。
吉荐于定国、杜延年及万年，万年竟代定国为御史大夫八岁，病卒。
子咸字子康，年十八，以万年任为郎。
有异材，抗直，数言事，刺讥近臣，书数十上，迁为左曹。
万年尝病，召咸教戒于床下，语至夜半，咸睡，头触屏风。
万年大怒，欲仗之，曰： 乃公教戒汝，汝反睡，不听吾言，何也？
咸叩头谢曰： 具晓所言，大要教咸谄也。
万年乃不复言。
translation: 
The emperor summoned Cai Yi and asked him to lecture on the Book of Songs. The emperor was very satisfied with what he heard and promoted him to the position of Guanglu doctor. He was given to Shizhong and taught in the palace by Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty.
A few years later, he was appointed Shaofu and promoted to Yushi Dafu. He replaced Yang Chang as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Yang Ping.
And because of the decision to increase the reward for Anzong Temple, he was given an additional 200 jins of gold.
Cai Yi was already over eighty years old when he became prime minister. He was short in stature, had no beard, and lost his eyebrows. His face looked like that of an old woman. He walked with a stooped back and often had to be supported by two subordinates to walk.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was in power. Some people who discussed the matter said that Huo Guang appointed prime ministers instead of selecting talented people and appointed people who could be arbitrarily controlled by him.
After Huo Guang heard this discussion, he said to his ministers, attendants and subordinates: I think the emperor's teacher should be the prime minister. How can I say that we should not choose talented people?
This kind of discussion cannot be heard by the world.
Cai Yi died after serving as prime minister for four years, and Mi was known as the Marquis of Jie.
He had no sons and the feudal state was abolished.
Chen Wannian, courtesy name Yougong, was born in Xiang County, Pei County.
At first he was an official of Pei County. After inspection, he was recommended and promoted to county magistrate. He was also promoted to prefect of Guangling. Because of his excellent political performance, he went to Beijing to serve as You Fufeng, and was further promoted to be a royal servant.
Chen Wannian was honest and fair, and cultivated virtue at home, but he was good at handling affairs and treating others. He donated property to his relatives, the Xu family and the Shi family, spent all his family's money, and especially made friends with and served Shi Gao, the Marquis of Leling.
Prime Minister Bingji fell ill, and officials with more than two thousand dan came to visit him.
Bingji sent Jiacheng out to express his gratitude. After the Jiacheng expressed his gratitude, all the officials left. Only Chen Wannian stayed and did not go back until late at night.
When Bingji became seriously ill, the emperor went to visit him in person and asked Bingji about his views on the virtues and talents of the ministers in the DPRK.
Binggu recommended Yu Dingguo, Du Yannian and Chen Wannian. Chen Wannian finally replaced Yu Dingguo as the imperial censor, and died of illness eight years later.
Chen Wannian's son Chen Xian, named Zikang, was eighteen years old. Due to Chen Wannian's merits, he was appointed Lang Guan according to the Renzi system.
He had special talents, was frank and honest, discussed things many times, dared to ridicule the emperor's trusted ministers, wrote dozens of letters, and was promoted to Zuocao.
Once, Chen Wannian fell ill and summoned Chen Xian to his bedside to teach and admonish him. He continued talking until midnight when Chen Xian fell asleep and hit his head on the screen.
Chen Wannian was very angry and wanted to beat Chen Xian with a stick, saying: "Your father taught you, but you fell asleep and didn't listen to me. Why?"
Chen Xian kowtowed and admitted his mistake and said: I fully understand what you said. In the final analysis, you are teaching me to flatter you.
Chen Wannian stopped talking.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
万年死后，元帝擢咸为御史中丞，总领州郡奏事，课第诸刺史，内执法殿中，公卿以下皆敬惮之。
是时，中书令石显用事颛权，咸颇言显短，显等恨之。
时槐里令朱云残酷杀不辜，有司举奏，未下。
咸素善云，云从刺候，教令上书自讼。
于是石显微伺知之，白奏咸漏泄省中语，下狱掠治，减死，髡为城旦，因废。
成帝初即位，大将军王凤以咸前指言石显，有忠直节，奏请咸补长史。
迁冀州刺史，奉使称意，征为谏大夫。
复出为楚内史，北海、东郡太守。
坐为京兆尹王章所荐，章诛，咸免官。起家复为南阳太守。
所居以杀伐立威，豪猾吏及大姓犯法，辄论输府，以律程作司空，为他臼木杵，舂不中程，或私解脱钳釱，衣服不如法，辄加罪笞。
督作剧，不胜痛，自绞死，岁数百千人，久者虫出腐烂，家不得收。
其治放严延年，其廉不知。
所居调发属县所出食物以自奉养，奢侈玉食。
然操持掾史，郡中长吏皆令闭门自敛，不得逾法。
公移敕书曰： 即各欲求索自快，是一郡百太守也，何得然哉！
下吏畏之，豪强执报，令行禁止，然亦以此见废。
咸，三公子，少显名于朝廷，而薛宣、朱博、翟方进、孔光等仕宦绝在咸后，皆以廉俭先至公卿，而咸滞于郡守。
translation: 
After Chen Wannian's death, Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty promoted Chen Xian to the position of censor Zhongcheng. He oversaw the affairs of the prefectures and counties and assessed the performance of the governors. In the palace of law enforcement, all officials below the public minister were in awe of Chen Xian.
At this time, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to be in power. Chen Xian often discussed Shi Xian's shortcomings, which made Shi Xian and others hate Chen Xian.
At that time, Zhu Yun, the magistrate of Huaili County, brutally and mistakenly killed an innocent man by decree. The relevant officials wrote a memorial, but the emperor did not issue a memorial.
Chen Xianqiansu and Zhu Yun were close friends. Zhu Yun inquired about the seriousness of the matter from Chen Xian, and Chen Xian taught Zhu Yun to write a letter to defend himself.
At this time, Shi Xian secretly sent someone to find out about this situation, and reported that Chen Xian had leaked the secrets of the palace. He was sent to prison, beaten and interrogated, and his death penalty was reduced. Kun was made the Dan of the City, so he was deposed from his official title.
When Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, the general Wang Feng believed that Chen Xian had a loyal and upright character when he accused Shi Xian in the past, so he asked Emperor Chen Cheng to allow Chen Xian to serve as Chang Shi.
Later, Chen Xian was promoted to the governor of Jizhou and was ordered to act in accordance with the emperor's wishes. He was recruited and appointed as an admonishing doctor.
Later, he served as the domestic history of Chu, the prefect of Beihai County, and the prefect of Shu County.
Because Chen Xian was recommended by Jingzhao Yin Wang Zhang, he was promoted to the throne. Wang Zhang broke the law and was killed. Chen Xian was dismissed from office and was recruited to serve as the prefect of Nanyang County.
Killing is used to establish dignity in the place where he works. If the powerful officials and aristocratic families break the law, they will be escorted to the prefecture on trial. Officials in charge of the service will be arranged according to legal procedures to set up earth mortars and pestles, and let the criminals use the wooden pestles to pound the earth mortars. If the criminals do not meet the requirements, or if they arbitrarily remove the iron pincers around their necks or the iron shackles on their feet, or if the clothes they wear do not comply with the law, they will be punished and beaten.
People were assigned to strictly supervise the work, and the labor was so intense that the criminals could not bear the pain. Some of them hanged themselves. Hundreds of criminals died in a year. Over time, the bodies became maggots and rotted, and the criminals' families were unable to bury them.
He imitated Yan Yannian in governing political affairs, but was not as honest as Yan Yannian.
The food produced in the county is distributed to the place where he works to support himself. He lives a luxurious life and has delicious food as good as jade.
However, he controlled the history and ordered the county officials to restrain themselves behind closed doors and could not break the law.
He also publicly warned them in writing: "If everyone wants to pursue their own happiness, how can this happen when there are a hundred prefects in one county!"
All the officials under his command were afraid of him, and they were tyrannical and intimidating, imposing orders and prohibitions, but he was deposed because of this.
Chen Xian was the son of Sangong, and he was very famous in the court when he was young. Xue Xuan, Zhu Bo, Zhai Fangjin, Kong Guang, etc. became officials far behind Chen Xian. However, they all became high officials with integrity and frugality, while Chen Xian was stagnant in the position of county guard.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时，车骑将军王音辅政，信用陈汤。
咸数赂遗汤，予书曰： 即蒙子公力，得入帝城，死不恨。
后竟征入为少府。
少府多宝物、属官，咸皆钩校，发其奸臧，没入辜榷财物。
官属及诸中宫黄门、钩盾、掖庭官吏，举奏按论，畏咸，皆失气。
为少府三岁，与翟方进有隙。
方进为丞相，奏： 咸前为郡守，所在残酷，毒螫加于吏民。
主守盗，受所监。而官媚邪臣陈汤以求荐举。
苟得无耻，不宜处位。
咸坐免。
顷之，红阳侯立举咸方正，为光禄大夫给事中，方进复奏免之。
后数年，立有罪就国，方进奏归咸故郡，以忧死。
郑弘字稚卿，泰山刚人也。
兄昌字次卿，亦好学，皆明经，通法律政事。
次卿为太原、涿郡太守，弘为南阳太守，皆著治迹，条教法度，为后所述。
次卿用刑罚深，不如弘平，迁淮阳相，以高第入为右扶风，京师称之。
代韦玄成为御史大夫。
六岁，坐与京房论议免，语在《房传》。
赞曰：所谓盐铁议者，起始元中，征文学贤良问以治乱，皆对愿罢郡国盐铁、酒榷均输，务本抑末，毋与天下争利，然后教化可兴。
御史大夫弘羊以为此乃所以安边竟，制四夷，国家大业，不可废也。
当时相诘难，颇有其议文。
至宣帝时，汝南桓宽次公治《公羊春秋》举为郎，至庐江太守丞，博通善属文，推衍盐铁之议，增广条目，极其论难，著数万言，亦欲以究治乱，成一家之法焉。
translation: 
At that time, Wang Yin, the chariot and cavalry general, assisted the government and trusted Chen Tang.
Chen Xian bribed Chen Tang with gifts many times, and wrote to him: If I can get help from my son-in-law and be able to enter the capital and become an official, I will not regret it even if I die.
Later, he was finally recruited to Beijing and became the Shaofu.
The Shaofu was in charge of a lot of real objects. Chen Xian checked all the officials and found the treasures they had secretly hidden, so he took it for granted without the receipt.
Reports were filed against subordinate officials and officials at Huangmen, Goudun, and Yeting in the central palaces, who were examined and convicted. These officials were afraid of Chen Xian and lost their courage.
Chen Xian served as the Shaofu for three years and was at odds with Zhai Fangjin.
Zhai Fangjin was the prime minister, and he reported to the emperor: Chen Xian used to be a county governor, and he was cruel in every aspect, inflicting politics like a poisonous sting on the officials and the people.
Guarding and stealing. And he openly flattered the evil minister Chen Tanglai to seek recommendation.
It is shameless and shameless to seek official positions and is not suitable for holding official positions anymore.
Chen Xian was convicted and dismissed from office.
Soon, Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, recommended Chen Xian to be upright and upright. After being appointed as Guanglu doctor, Zhai Fangjin petitioned the emperor to remove Chen Xian from his official post.
A few years later, Wang Li returned to his feudal country after being convicted of a crime. Zhai Fangjin asked the emperor to send Chen Xian back to his hometown. Chen Xian died of depression.
Zheng Hong, courtesy name Zhiqing, was born in Gang County, Taishan County.
His elder brother Zheng Chang, named Ciqing, also loved learning. He was proficient in Confucian classics and was proficient in law and political affairs.
The second minister served as the prefect of Taiyuan County and Zhuo County, and Zheng Hong was the prefect of Nanyang County. Both of them had outstanding political achievements. The articles, decrees, laws and systems of their administration were described by later generations.
The second minister's punishments were harsh and not as gentle as those of Zheng Hong. Zheng Hong was transferred to Huaiyang as the Prime Minister. Because of his outstanding political achievements, he came to Beijing to serve as You Fufeng. People in the capital praised him.
His descendant Wei Xuan became the imperial censor.
Six years later, he was convicted and expelled from office for discussing the government affairs with Jingfang. The matter is recorded in "Jingfang Biography".
Zanri: The discussion of the so-called salt and iron policy began in the first year of the Yuan Dynasty. Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty ordered the recruitment of literary and virtuous people, and asked about strategies for governing the world and rectifying chaos. They all replied that they hoped to abolish the salt and iron, wine and grain, and lose-all policies of the county, to focus on agriculture, suppress the end of industry and commerce, and not to compete with the people of the world for profits, and then enlightenment can flourish.
Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, believed that the above policies were used to stabilize the border and control surrounding ethnic minorities. They were the fundamental cause of the country and could not be abolished.
At that time, Sang Hongyang and literary virtuous people were arguing with each other, and there were many articles on their debates.
At the time of Emperor Xuan, Duke Huan Kuanci of Runan County studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" and was recommended as a Langguan. He later became the prefect of Lujiang County. He was erudite and proficient in writing essays. He deduced and derived discussions about salt and iron.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
其辞曰： 观公卿贤良文学之议， 异乎吾所闻 。闻汝南朱生言，当此之时，英俊并进，贤良茂陵唐生、文学鲁国万生之徒六十有余人咸聚阙庭，舒六艺之风，陈治平之原，知者赞其虑，仁者明其施，勇者见其断，辩者骋其辞，龂龂焉，行行焉，虽未详备，斯可略观矣。
中山刘子推言王道，挢当世，反诸正，彬彬然弘博君子也。
九江祝生奋史鱼之节，发愤懑，讥公卿，介然直而不挠，可谓不畏强圉矣。
桑大夫据当世，合时变，上权利之略，虽非正当，巨儒宿学不能自解，博物通达之士也。
然摄公卿之柄，不师古始，放于末利，处非其位，行非其道，果陨其性，以及厥宗。
车丞相履伊、吕之列，当轴处中，括囊不言，容身而去，彼哉！
彼哉！若夫丞相、御史两府之士，不能正议以辅宰相，成同类，长同行，阿意苟合，以说其上， 斗筲之徒，何足选也！
translation: 
Huan Kuan's Literary Saying: Look at Gong Qing's virtuous literary discussions, Different from what I have heard, Zhu Sheng of Runan said that at this time, heroes and talents were advancing side by side, such as the virtuous Tang Sheng from Maoling and the literary Lu people. More than 60 people gathered in the court to talk about the customs of the six arts and state the governance of the country. The origin of the world, the wise praise their thoughts, the benevolent reveal their measures, the brave show their determination, the debaters use their words, argue endlessly, and show a strong look. Although the discussion is not detailed, it can be briefly seen.
Liu Zi, a native of Zhongshan, reasoned about the royal way, corrected the shortcomings of today's society, and brought it back to the right path. He was a gentle and learned gentleman.
Zhu Sheng, a native of Jiujiang County, carried forward Shi Yu's integrity, expressed his anger, ridiculed the ministers, and was upright and unyielding. It can be said that he was not afraid of rape.
Based on the reality of today's society, Dr. Sang is in line with the changes in the current situation, and advocates the strategy of fighting for power and profit. Although it is not a legitimate method, a learned scholar cannot seek explanations by himself. Sang Hongyang's theory cannot be used to explain the truth. He is a learned and understanding man.
However, he handled the power of the ministers and did not imitate the ancients. He indulged his mind and pursued business profits. He was not in his position and acted in the wrong way. As expected, he lost his life because of his rebellion with Shangguan Jie, which also affected his clan.
Prime Minister Che Qianqiu entered the ranks of auxiliary ministers like Yi Yin and Lu Shang, holding important positions and presiding over political affairs. However, when Huo Guang was in power, Che Qianqiu remained silent on political affairs. He was as cautious as a bag tied around the mouth. Although he died whole body, a person like him is not worthy of praise.
As for the people in the prime minister's and imperial censor's offices who cannot adhere to correct opinions to assist the prime minister, and flatter and unprincipledly agree with those who have common interests in order to please their superiors, these people are like what Confucius said is a person with inferior materials and equipment, and they are not worthy of praise.


