Chunk 0: 
original: 
野王二老向长逢萌周党王霸严光井丹梁鸿高凤台佟韩康矫慎戴良法真汉阴老父陈留老父庞公《易》称 《遯》之时义大矣哉 。又曰： 不事王侯，高尚其事。
是以尧称则天，不屈颍阳之高；武尽美矣，终全孤竹之洁。
自兹以降，风流弥繁，长往之轨未殊，而感致之数匪一。
或隐居以求其志，或回避以全其道，或静已以镇其躁，或去危以图其安，或垢俗以动其概，或疵物以激其清。
然观其甘心畎亩之中，憔悴江海之上，岂必亲鱼鸟、乐林草哉！
亦云性分所至而已。
故蒙耻之宾，屡黜不去其国；蹈海之节，千乘莫移其情。适使矫易去就，则不能相为矣。
彼虽硜硜有类沽名者，然而蝉蜕嚣埃之中，自致寰区之外，异夫饰智巧以逐浮利者乎！
荀卿有言曰， 志意修则骄富贵，道义重则轻王公 也。
汉室中微，王莽篡位，士之蕴藉义愤甚矣。
是时裂冠毁冕，相携持而去之者，盖不可胜数。
杨雄曰： 鸿飞冥冥，弋者何篡焉。
言其违患之远也。
translation: 
Preface to the biographies of Yimin. "The Book of Changes" says: The meaning of Dun Gua is very great!
He also said: Don't serve princes and nobles, keep your noble reputation. Therefore, Emperor Yao took heaven as the law and could not make Chao Fu and Xu You accept his throne; King Wu of Zhou was a perfect man, and in the end he could only fulfill the innocent reputation of Boyi and Shuqi, the two sons of Lord Guzhu, for not eating Zhou Su.
Since then, the trend of seclusion has become more popular. Most people's deeds are roughly the same, but their motivations for seclusion are very different.
Some live in seclusion to satisfy their ambitions; some avoid the entanglements of big men to perfect their moral character; some seek a quiet environment to suppress impatience; some avoid dangerous disputes to seek temporary safety; some are cynical to establish their integrity; some despise wealth and honor to preserve their innocence.
However, seeing that they are willing to work in the fields and fish in the rivers and seas, must they be so interested in fish, birds, forests and grass?
But everyone has different personalities.
Therefore, even though Liu Xiahui suffered humiliation and was dismissed three times, he still refused to leave Qi. Lu Zhonglian would rather jump into the sea and die than respect Qin as emperor. Even his status as the king of a thousand-year-old country could not tempt him.
If they were put in another position, they wouldn't act the same way. Their stubbornness does have the appearance of seeking fame and fame, but they are like cicadas shed in the dust, jumping out of this filthy environment, far behind those who sharpen their heads to pursue fame and fortune.
Xunzi said it well: If you have high ambitions, you will look down on wealth; if you are moral, you will look down on princes.
The middle path of the Han Dynasty declined and Wang Mang usurped the throne. People with lofty ideals had strong indignation.
At that time, I don’t know how many people threw away their black gauze hats and left their official positions.
Yang Xiong said: The swan geese flew so high that the hunter’s arrow missed.
It is a metaphor for those who have traveled far away.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
光武侧席幽人，求之若不及，旌帛蒲车之所征贲，相望于岩中矣。
若薛方、逢萌，聘而不肯至；严光、周党、王霸，至而不能屈。
群方咸遂，志士怀仁，斯固所谓 举逸民天下归心 者乎！
肃宗亦礼郑均而征高凤，以成其节。
将用之，辞而去，莫知所在。向长字子平，河内朝歌人也。隐居不仕，性尚中和，好通《老》、《易》。
贫无资食，好事者更馈焉，受之取足而反其余。
王莽大司空王邑辟之，连年乃至，欲荐之于莽，固辞乃止。
潜隐于家。
读《易》至《损》、《益》卦，喟然叹曰： 吾已知富不如贫，贵不如贱，但未知死何如生耳。
建武中，男女娶嫁既毕，敕断家事勿相关，当如我死也。
于是遂肆意，与同好北海禽庆俱游五岳名山，竟不知所终。
逢萌字子康，北海都昌人也。
家贫，给事县为亭长。
时尉行过亭，萌候迎拜谒，既而掷叹曰： 大丈夫安能为人役哉！
遂去之长安学，通《春秋经》。
时王莽杀其子宇，萌谓友人曰： 三纲绝矣！
translation: 
Emperor Guangwu came to the throne and sat sideways waiting for the wise men. He was hungry and thirsty. He sent people to recruit people from Qiuyuan with banners, silk and push carts. There was an endless stream of messengers on the rugged mountain roads.
For example, Xue Fang, Feng Meng and others invited him but refused to come out. Yan Guang, Zhou Dang, Wang Ba and others came out but refused to take their seats.
At that time, all conditions were in place, and people with lofty ideals were also thinking about the sage emperor. Isn't this a great opportunity to promote the free people and make the people of the world surrender?
Emperor Suzong also paid courtesy to Zheng Jun and hired Gao Feng to complete their honor.
Since then, the emperor's virtue has gradually declined, and villains have taken over. The hermits are wary and feel that it is shameful to stand with those ministers. They even walk away, losing the way of neutrality. Now record those who lived in seclusion, and those who returned to seclusion one after another after coming out, are listed in this article. Xiang Changchuan, whose courtesy name is Ziping, was born in Chaoge, Hanoi. He lives in seclusion and does not serve as an official. He has a moderate personality and is proficient in Laozi and the Book of Changes.
He was poor and had no resources for food. If a good person gave him some food, he would accept part of it and return the rest.
Wang Mang's chief minister, Wang Yi, summoned him, but it took several years for him to arrive. He wanted to recommend him to Wang Mang, but Xiang Chang resolutely refused.
Hidden at home.
After reading the "Book of Changes" to the two hexagrams "Loss" and "Benefit", I sighed deeply and said: I already know that wealth is worse than poverty, and nobleness is worse than lowliness, but I don't know how death is worse than life.
During the Jianwu period, after his son and girl got married, he severed ties with his family and said, "Just think of me as dead."
So he acted randomly and traveled to the famous Five Mountains with his friend Beihai Qinqing, but in the end he didn't know where he ended up.
Feng Meng's biography, Feng Meng's courtesy name is Zikang, and he was born in Duchang, Beihai.
His family was poor and he worked as a pavilion chief in the county.
At that time, the county captain passed by the pavilion, and Peng Meng was waiting to greet him. He dropped his wooden shield and sighed, "How can a man serve as a servant for others?"
So he went to Chang'an to study and became proficient in the Spring and Autumn Classic.
At this time, Wang Mang killed his son Yu. Pengmeng said to his friends: The three cardinal principles are severed!


Chunk 2: 
original: 
不去，祸将及人。
即解冠挂东都城门，归，将家属浮海，客于辽东。
萌素明阴阳，知莽将败，有顷，乃首戴瓦盎，哭于市曰： 新乎新乎！
因遂潜藏。
及光武即位，乃之琅邪劳山，养志修道，人皆化其德。
北海太守素闻其高，遣吏奉谒致礼，萌不答。
太守怀恨而使捕之。
吏叩头曰： 子康大贤，天下共闻，所在之处，人敬如父，往必不获，只自毁辱。
太守怒，收之系狱，更发它吏。
行至劳山，人果相率以兵弩捍御。吏被伤流血，奔而还。
后诏书征萌，托以老耄，迷路东西，语使者云： 朝廷所以征我者，以其有益于政，尚不知方面所在，安能济时乎？
即便驾归。
连征不起，以寿终。
初，萌与同郡徐房、平原李子云、王君公相友善，并晓阴阳，怀德秽行。
房与子云养徒各千人，君公遭乱独不去，侩牛自隐。
时人谓之论曰： 避世墙东王君公。
translation: 
If you don't leave, disaster will bring harm to others.
He immediately took off his hat and hung it on the gate of Dongdu City. After returning, he moved his family to the seaside and lived in Liaodong.
Fengmeng had always understood the art of yin and yang, and knew that Wang Mang would be defeated soon, so he put a clay basin on his head and cried in the market: "New! New!"
So he hid.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he went to Langfu Mountain to cultivate his aspirations and practice Taoism. Everyone was influenced by his virtues.
The governor of Beihai heard about his noble character and sent officials to pay homage to him, but he did not respond to his courtesy.
The prefect held a grudge and sent people to arrest him.
The official kowtowed and said: "Zikang is a great sage and is famous all over the world. Wherever he is, people respect him like a father. If you go, you will definitely not be able to catch him. You will only bring humiliation to yourself."
The eunuch became angry, imprisoned the officials, and sent others to go.
When the man walked to Laoshan, people united to defend him with crossbows. The officials were wounded and bleeding and ran back.
Later, the imperial court summoned Fengmeng with an edict. Meng told the envoy that he was too old and had lost his way to the east-west direction, and said to the envoy: "The reason why the imperial court summoned me is because it thought I would be beneficial to politics. I don't even know the direction. How can I help the time?"
Hitched home immediately.
If you don't come out for continuous recruitment, you will die.
At first, Fengmeng was good friends with Xu Fang, Pingyuan Li Ziyun, and Wang Jungong from the same county. They all knew the theory of yin and yang and harbored virtuous behavior.
Xu Fang and Ziyun each raised thousands of apprentices. When the emperor was in trouble, he would not leave alone, but he worked as a cattle broker and secluded himself.
People at that time commented: "The King of the East Wall is a refuge from the world."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
周党字伯况，太原广武人也。
家产千金。
少孤，为宗人所养，而遇之不以理，及长，又不还其财。
党诣乡县讼，主乃归之。
既而散与宗族，悉免遣奴婢，遂至长安游学。
初，乡佐尝众中辱党，党久怀之。
后读《春秋》，闻复仇之义，便辍讲而还，与乡佐相闻，期克斗日。
既交刃，而党为乡佐所伤，困顿。
乡佐服其义，舆归养之，数日方苏，既悟而去。
自此敕身修志，州里称其高。
及王莽窃位，托疾杜门。
自后贼暴从横，残灭郡县，唯至广武，过城不入。
建武中，征为议郎，以病去职，遂将妻子居黾池。
复被征，不得已，乃着短布单衣，穀皮绡头，待见尚书。
及光武引见，党伏而不谒，自陈愿守所志，帝乃许焉。
博士范升奏毁党曰： 臣闻尧不须许由、巢父，而建号天下；周不待伯夷、叔齐，而王道以成。
伏见太原周党、东海王良、山阳王成等，蒙受厚恩，使者三聘，乃肯就车。
及陛见帝廷，党不以礼屈，伏而不谒，偃蹇骄悍，同时俱逝。
党等文不能演义，武不能死君，钓采华名，庶几三公之位。
translation: 
Biography of Zhou Dang, named Bo Kuang, a native of Guangwu, Taiyuan.
The family fortune is thousands of gold.
His father died when he was young and he was raised by his tribe. However, he was not treated politely and when he grew up, his property was not returned.
Zhou Dang went to the township and county to file a lawsuit, and the owner was returned to him.
Soon, he dispersed his family property to the clan and dismissed all his servants, so he went to Chang'an to study.
At first, Xiang Zuo once insulted Zhou Dang in front of everyone, and Zhou Dang remembered it for a long time.
Later, after reading "Spring and Autumn", I understood the meaning of revenge, so I stopped talking and went back, notifying my hometown assistant to set a date for the fight.
After a confrontation, Zhou Dang was injured by Xiang Zuo and was trapped.
Xiang Zuo was impressed by his loyalty and sent him home in a car to recuperate. He revived after a few days and left when he woke up.
From then on, he restrained himself and cultivated his will, and the state praised him for his noble character.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Zhou party refused to leave due to illness.
From now on, the thieves will run rampant and destroy the counties and counties. They will not come in until they reach Guangwu and pass through the city gate.
During the Jianwu period, he called Zhou Dang to serve as Yilang. He resigned due to illness, so he sent his wife to live in Mianchi.
When he was summoned again, he had no choice but to put on short cloth and single clothes, and a silk head made of grain husk, waiting to see the minister.
When Guangwu introduced him, Zhou Dang fell to the ground and paid homage. He stated that he was willing to abide by his will, and the emperor agreed.
Dr. Fan Sheng reported that the Zhou Dynasty was ruined: I heard that Emperor Yao did not need Xu You and Chaofu, but established his name in the world; the Zhou Dynasty did not wait for Boyi and Shu Qi, but the king's way was achieved.
I met Zhou Dang of Taiyuan, Wang Liang of Donghai, Wang Cheng of Shanyang, etc., and received great favors. The envoy invited me repeatedly before I was willing to get on the carriage.
When your majesty came to see the court, the Zhou party did not show courtesy, bowed down and refused to pay homage, and showed off their arrogance and arrogance. They all left at the same time.
Zhou Dang and others were incapable of romance in humanities and incapable of killing the king in martial arts. They had a good reputation and were almost ranked among the three princes.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣愿与坐云台之下，考试图国之道。
不如臣言，伏虚妄之罪。
而敢私窃虚名，夸上求高，皆大不敬。
书奏，天子以示公卿。
诏曰： 自古明王圣主，必有不宾之士。
伯夷、叔齐不食周粟，太原周党不受朕禄，亦各有志焉。
其赐帛四十匹。
党遂隐居黾池，著书上下篇而终。
邑人贤而祠之。
初，党与同郡谭贤伯升、雁门殷谟君长，俱守节不仕王莽世。
建武中，征，并不到。
王霸字儒仲，太原广武人也。
少有清节。
及王莽篡位，弃冠带，绝交宦。
建武中，征到尚书，拜称名，不称臣。
有司问其故。
霸曰： 天子有所不臣，诸侯有所不友。
司徒侯霸让位于霸。
阎阳毁之曰： 太原俗党，儒仲颇有其风。
遂止。
以病归，隐居守志，茅屋蓬户。
连征，不至，以寿终。
严光字子陵，一名遵，会稽余姚人也。
translation: 
I am willing to sit with them under the cloud platform and test the methods of governing the country.
If it is not what I said, I am willing to bear the sin of vanity.
It is disrespectful to dare to use false reputation for personal gain and boast.
In the memorial, the emperor passed it to the ministers.
The edict reads: Since ancient times, the Ming King and the Holy Lord must have some unwelcome guests.
Boyi and Shuqi did not eat millet from the Zhou Dynasty, and the Zhou party in Taiyuan did not receive my salary, but they also had their own ambitions.
Give forty pieces of silk.
Zhou Dang lived in seclusion in Mianchi, wrote the first and second chapters of the book, and died.
The people of the city considered him a worthy person and built a temple to commemorate him.
At first, Zhou Dang, Tan Xianbosheng and Yanmen Yinmo, both of the same county, kept their integrity and refused to serve as officials for Wang Mang.
During the Jianwu period, he could not be summoned.
Wang Ba's biography, Wang Ba's courtesy name is Ru Zhong, and he was born in Guangwu, Taiyuan.
There are clear festivals in childhood.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he gave up his crown and belt and broke off all relations with the officials.
During the Jianwu period, he was called to the minister's office and paid homage to him by name, but not as a minister.
Someone asked him why.
Ba said: The emperor has dissatisfaction with his subjects, and the princes have dissatisfaction with others.
Situ Houba gave way to Wang Ba.
Yan Yang ruined the king's domineering ways: Wang Ruzhong, a secular party in Taiyuan, had this kind of trend.
So it was stopped.
Returned home due to illness. Live in seclusion and keep your ambitions, with a thatched hut.
After failing to call for several times, he died.
Yan Guangzhuan, Yan Guang, courtesy name Ziling, also known as Zun, was born in Yuyao, Kuaiji.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
少有高名，与光武同游学。
及光武即位，乃变名姓，隐身不见。
帝思其贤，乃令以物色访之。
后齐国上言： 有一男子，披羊裘钓泽中。
帝疑其光，乃备安车玄，遣使聘之。
三反而后至。
舍于北军。给床褥，太官朝夕进膳。
司徒侯霸与光素旧，遣使奉书。
使人因谓光曰： 公闻先生至，区区欲即诣造。迫于典司，是以不获。
愿因日暮，自屈语言。
光不答，乃投札与之，口授曰： 君房足下：位至鼎足，甚善。
怀仁辅义天下悦，阿谀顺旨要领绝。 霸得书，封奏之。
帝笑曰： 狂奴故态也。
车驾即日幸其馆。
光卧不起，帝即其卧所，抚光腹曰： 咄咄子陵，不可相助为理邪？
光又眠不应，良久，乃张目熟视，曰： 昔唐尧著德，巢父洗耳。
士故有志，何至相迫乎！
帝曰： 子陵，我竟不能下汝邪？
于是升舆叹息而去。
translation: 
He became famous at a young age and traveled and studied with Emperor Guangwu.
When Guangwu became emperor, Yan Guang changed his name and lived in seclusion.
The emperor missed his talent, so he sent someone with the image to find it.
Later, someone from Qi State reported that there was a man wearing a sheep fur fishing in the lake.
The emperor suspected that it was Yan Guang, so he prepared a carriage and black silk and sent someone to invite him.
It took three times to come out.
Let him live in the military camp, make a bed, and have meals delivered by the eunuch in the morning and evening.
Situ Houba and Yan Guang were old friends and sent someone to deliver the letter.
The messenger said by the way: When Mr. Hou heard that your husband had arrived, he wanted to see you immediately, but he was busy with official duties, so he did not come.
I hope you will go to him at dusk and talk.
Yan Guang didn't answer, so he gave the visitor a pen and paper, and said to himself: "Mr. Junfang, it's very good to be a third official."
I hope you can have a kind heart, supplemented by morality, and make the world happy. If you flatter and follow the will, you will be killed.
Hou Ba read the letter, sealed it and sent it to the emperor. The emperor smiled and said: "What a crazy slave."
So I drove to the hotel immediately.
At this time, Yan Guang was still sleeping and had not gotten up. The emperor walked to the bedside. Touching his belly and saying: Oh! Ziling, can't you help me govern the country?
Yan Guang still slept silently. After a long time, he opened his eyes and stared at the emperor and said: In ancient times, Tang Yao was very virtuous and wanted to give up the throne to Father Chao. Father Chao washed his ears after hearing this.
Scholars all have their own ambitions, so why force others?
The emperor then said: Ziling, how can I not make you submit?
So he got in the car and left with a sigh.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
复引光入，论道旧故，相对累日。
帝从容问光曰： 朕何如昔时？
对曰： 陛下差增于往。
因共偃卧，光以足加帝腹上。
明日，太史奏客星犯御坐甚急。
帝笑曰： 朕故人严子陵共卧耳。
除为谏议大夫，不屈，乃耕于富春山，后人名其钓处为严陵濑焉。
建武十七年，复特征，不至。
年八十，终于家。
井丹字大春，扶风郿人也。
少受业太学，通《五经》，善谈论，故京师为之语曰： 《五经》纷纶井大春。
性清高，未尝修刺修人。
建武末，沛王辅等五王居北宫，皆好宾客，更遣请丹，不能致。
信阳侯阴就，光烈皇后弟也，以外戚贵盛，乃诡说五王，求钱千万，约能致丹，而别使人要劫之。
丹不得已，既至，就故为设麦饭葱叶之食。丹推去之，曰： 以君侯能供甘旨，故来相过，何其薄乎？
更置盛馔，乃食。
及就起，左右进辇。丹笑曰： 吾闻桀驾人车，岂此邪？
坐中皆失色。
就不得已而令去辇。
自是隐闭，不关人事，以寿终。
translation: 
Another time, the emperor invited Yan Guang in and talked with him about the past. The two talked to each other for several days.
The emperor calmly said to Yan Guang: How am I better than before?
Answer: You are a little fatter than before.
So they slept together, Yan Guang put his feet on Guangwu's belly.
The next day, Taishi reported that there was a guest star in the sky invading the throne of the emperor, and the situation was urgent.
The emperor smiled and said: I am sleeping with my old friend Yan Ziling!
Emperor Guangwu worshiped Yan Guang as an admonishment official, but Yan Guang refused to do so, so he farmed in Fuchun Mountain. Later generations called the place where Yan Guang fished Yan Linglai.
In the seventeenth year of Jianwu's reign, he sent someone to invite Yan Guang, but he still refused to come out.
Yan Guang lived to the age of eighty and died at home.
The biography of Jing Dan, named Dachun, was born in Fufeng.
When he was young, he studied in Taixue. He was proficient in the Five Classics and was good at talking about it. Therefore, people in the capital said this: The Five Classics are rich in content and spring.
He has a high-spirited nature and has never greeted anyone with a business card.
In the last years of Jianwu, King Pei Liu Fu and other five kings lived in the Beigong. They were all very good guests. They sent people to invite Jing Dan again, but they couldn't come.
Xinyang Hou Yinjiu, the younger brother of Queen Guanglie, relied on the status of his relative Guisheng, so he lied to the Five Kings and asked for tens of millions of dollars to make an appointment to invite Jing Dan, and also had someone rob him on the way.
Jing Dan had no choice but to arrive, so Yin deliberately prepared wheat rice, green onion leaves and other food. Jing Dan refused to push it away and said: "I think the monarch can provide delicious food, so I came to visit, why are you so meager?"
So they set up a separate banquet before eating.
When Yin got up, the people on the left and right pushed a chariot. Jing Dan smiled and said: I heard that Xia Jie once used people to drive. Is this it?
All the guests sitting there changed their colors.
Yin had no choice but to ask someone to replace the chariot.
From then on, Jing Dan lived in seclusion, not interacting with people, and died.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
梁鸿字伯鸾，扶风平陵人也。
父让，王莽时为城门校尉，封脩远伯，使奉少昊后，寓于北地而卒。
鸿时尚幼，以遭乱世，因卷席而葬。
后受业太学，家贫而尚节介，博览无不通，而不为章句。
学毕，乃牧豕于上林宛中。
曾误遗火，延及它舍。鸿乃寻访烧者，问所去失，悉以豕偿之。
其主犹以为少。
鸿曰： 无它财，愿以身居作。
主人许之。
因为执勤，不懈朝夕。
邻家耆老见鸿非恒人，乃共责让主人，而称鸿长者。于是始敬异焉，悉还其豕。
鸿不受而去，归乡里。
势家慕其高节，多欲女之，鸿并绝不娶。
同县孟氏有女，状肥丑而黑，力举石臼，择对不嫁，至年三十。
父母问其故。女曰： 欲得贤如梁伯鸾者。
鸿闻而娉之。
女求作布衣、麻屦，织作筐缉绩之具。
及嫁，始以装饰入门。
七日而鸿不答。
妻乃跪床下请曰： 窃闻夫子高义，简斥数妇，妾亦偃蹇数夫矣。
translation: 
Liang Hongchuan, whose courtesy name was Boluan, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
His father, Liang Rang, served as a minor official guarding the city during Wang Mang's time and was granted the title of Yuan Bo. Wang Mang asked him to sacrifice to Emperor Shaohao, so he lived in the north and died.
Liang Hong was young at the time. Because of the troubled times, he rolled up a mat and buried his father hastily.
Later, Liang Hong entered Taixue to study. Because his family was poor, he was very frugal. He has read a lot of books and is very proficient, but he doesn't like writing articles.
After studying, he herded pigs in Shanglin Garden.
Once, a fire accidentally broke out and burned down someone else's house. Liang Hong found the burned house, learned about the damage, and used pigs as compensation.
The owner of that house is still too few.
Liang Hong said: I have no other property and am willing to use my own labor as compensation.
The master agreed.
So I worked very hard in the morning and evening.
The neighbor old man saw that Liang Hong was not an ordinary person, so he blamed the owner of the house and called Liang Hong an elder. From then on, the owner respected Liang Hong and returned all his pigs.
Liang Hong refused to accept it and returned to his hometown.
Some wealthy families envied Liang Hong's noble moral character and wanted to marry their daughters to him, but Liang Hong refused.
There was a girl from the Meng family in the same county. She was fat, ugly and dark, but she could lift a stone mortar. She didn't like the girl she chose, and she was still unmarried at the age of thirty.
The father asked why, and the daughter said: I want to find someone like Liang Boluan.
When Liang Hong heard about it, he went to pay the betrothal gift.
The woman requires cloth clothes, hemp shoes, thread baskets, textiles and other tools as dowry.
When you get married, you dress up and enter the house.
After seven days, Liang Hong stopped talking to his wife.
The wife knelt in front of the bed and said: I heard that you have high moral character and are very strict in choosing your partners. You have not agreed to several women, and I have also chosen several people.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今而见择，敢不请罪。
鸿曰： 吾欲裘褐之人，可与俱隐深山者尔。
今乃衣绮缟，傅粉墨，岂鸿所愿哉？
妻曰： 以观夫子之志耳。妾自有隐居之服。
乃更为椎髻，着布衣，操作而前。
鸿大喜曰： 此真梁鸿妻也。
能奉我矣！
字之曰德曜，名孟光。
居有顷，妻曰： 常闻夫子欲隐居避患，今何为默默？
无乃欲低头就之乎？
鸿曰： 诺。 乃共入霸陵山中，以耕织为业，咏《诗》、《书》，弹琴以自娱。
仰慕前世高士，而为四皓以来二十四人作颂。
因东出关，过京师，作《五噫之歌》曰： 陟彼北芒兮，噫！顾览帝京兮，噫！宫室崔嵬兮，噫！人之劬劳兮，噫！
辽辽未央兮，噫！ 肃宗闻而非之，求鸿不得。
乃易姓运期，名耀，字侯光，与妻子居齐鲁之间。
有顷，又去适吴。将行，作诗曰：逝旧帮兮遐征，将遥集兮东南。心惙怛兮伤悴，志菲菲兮升降。
欲乘策兮纵迈，疾吾俗兮作谗。
竞举枉兮措直，咸先佞兮唌唌。
固靡惭兮独建，冀异州兮尚贤。
translation: 
Now that I have been chosen by you, please tell me clearly if I have made any mistakes so that I can correct them.
Liang Hong said: I want to find someone who is dressed simply and live in seclusion in the mountains together.
Now that you are wearing nice clothes and applying makeup, are you the person I want?
The wife said: I tested you on purpose. I still have clothes for seclusion.
So he changed his hair into a bun, put on cloth clothes, dressed himself up for work, and stepped forward.
Liang Hong said happily: "This is really Liang Hong's wife!"
You can spend a lifetime with me!
So he named her De Yao and named her Meng Guang.
Not long after, the wife said: I often hear that you want to live in seclusion to avoid danger. Why are you silent now? Do you want to bow to power?
Liang Hong said: You are right.
So they went into Baling Mountain together and started farming and weaving.
On weekdays, he spends his time reading poetry and playing the piano. I often envy the elegant people of my predecessors and write hymns for the twenty-four sages after Shangshan Sihao.
One day, I went out along the east gate and passed the capital, and wrote a song called "Song of Five Ains": Climbing Beimang Mountain, I saw that the imperial capital was very gorgeous, the palaces towered into the clouds, and the hard work of life was infinite and endless.
Suzong was very disapproving after hearing this and sent people to look for Liang Hong, but he could not find him.
So Liang Hong changed his surname to Yunqi, his given name was Yao, and his courtesy name was Hou Guang. He lived with his wife in the Qilu area.
Not long after, I went to the Kingdom of Wu again, and when I was about to set off, I wrote a poem: Passing through the old country and running into the distance, my future stopped and I thought about the southeast. I was confused and haggard, and my ambition was rising and falling.
I want to ride a horse and gallop, but I hate the slanderous words that hurt people.
He actually promoted the villain and abandoned the virtuous, and shouted first with a sharp tongue.
Bo Luan is not ashamed to be independent, maybe Bo Le lives in a foreign country.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
聊逍遥兮遨嬉，缵仲尼兮周流。
倘云睹兮我悦，遂舍车兮即浮。
过季札兮延陵，求鲁连兮海隅。
虽不察兮光貌，幸神灵兮与休。
惟季春兮华阜，麦含英兮方秀。
哀茂时兮逾迈，愍芳香兮日臭。
悼吾心兮不获，长委结兮焉究！
口嚣嚣兮余讪，嗟恇恇兮谁留？
遂至吴，依大家皋伯通，居庑下，为人赁舂。
每归，妻为具食，不敢于鸿前仰视，举案齐眉。
伯通察而异之，曰： 彼佣能使其妻敬之如此，非凡人也。
乃方舍之于家。
鸿潜闭著书十余篇。
疾且困，告主人曰： 昔延陵季子葬子于嬴博之间，不归乡里，慎勿令我子持丧归去。
及卒，伯通等为求葬地于吴要离冢傍。咸曰： 要离烈士，而伯鸾清高，可令相近。
葬毕，妻子归扶风。
初，鸿友人京兆高恢，少好《老子》，隐于华阴山中。
translation: 
What is the need for temporary freedom? Learn from Confucius and travel around.
If I could see a virtuous person and my heart would be happy, I would rather abandon my carriage and ride a boat.
When I arrived at Yanling, I asked for Ji Zha, and when I arrived at Haiyu, I met Lu Lian.
Even if the sages cannot be found, they are still willing to meet the gods.
The smoke scenery is beautiful in March in Yangchun, and the wheat is green and in bud.
Good times don't last forever, and the fragrance turns into a fishy smell in an instant.
My heart is sad and unhappy, and my stomach is full of knots and worries.
The crowd kept shouting, and it was hard to find a place to hide.
So when I arrived in Wu, I found a wealthy man named Gao Botong who lived under the eaves and pounded rice for others.
When he comes home every day, his wife cooks for him. She dare not raise her eyes to look at her husband, but often raises the plate to her eyebrows.
Botong felt strange when he saw it, so he said: "This hired man can make his wife respect him so much. He is definitely not an ordinary person."
So he was allowed to live at home.
Liang Hong wrote more than ten articles behind closed doors.
Later, he fell ill and felt very sleepy, so he told his master: "In the past, Yanling Jizi buried his son between Yingbo and did not go to the countryside. After I die, please don't let my son carry the coffin back."
After Liang Hong died, Bo Tong and others buried him next to Yaoli's grave in the state of Wu. They all said: Yaoli was a martyr, and Liang Boluan was very noble, which allowed them to get close.
After the burial, the wife returned to Fufeng.
At first, Liang Hong's friend Gao Hui from Jingzhao liked to read "Laozi" when he was young and lived in seclusion in Huayin Mountain.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
及鸿东游思恢，作诗曰： 鸟嘤嘤兮友之期，念高子兮仆怀思，相念恢兮集兹。
二人遂不复相见。
恢亦高抗，终身不仕。高凤字文通，南阳叶人也。
少为书生，家以农亩为业，而专精诵读，昼夜不息。
妻尝之田，曝麦于庭，令凤护鸡。
时天暴雨，而凤持竿诵经，不觉潦水流麦。
妻还怪问，凤方悟之。
其后遂为名儒，乃教授于西唐山中。
邻里有争财者，持兵而斗，凤往解之，不已，乃脱巾叩头，固请曰： 仁义逊让，奈何弃之！
于是争者怀感，投兵谢罪。
凤年老，执志不倦，名声著闻。
太守连召请，恐不得免，自言本巫家，不应为吏，又诈与寡嫂讼田，遂不仕。
与夫委体渊沙，鸣弦揆日者，不其远乎！ 台佟字孝威，魏郡鄴人也。隐于武安山，凿穴为居，采药自业。
建初中，州辟，不就。
刺史行部，乃使从事致谒。
佟载病往谢。
刺史乃执贽见佟曰： 孝威居身如是，甚苦，如何？
佟曰： 佟幸得保终性命，存神养和。
translation: 
When Liang Hong traveled east, he thought of Gao Hui and wrote a poem: Birds are chirping looking for friends, and I also think of Gao Hui, hoping he can come here. The two never met again.
Gao Hui was also a proud man and had never been an official in his life.
Gao Fengzhuan, Gao Feng, courtesy name Wentong, was born in Nanyang Ye.
When he was young, he was a student, and his family was engaged in farming. However, Gao Feng specialized in reading and never rested day and night.
My wife once went to work in the fields and dried the wheat in the courtyard, calling Gao Feng to protect the chickens.
At this time, it was raining heavily, but Gao Feng was holding a bamboo pole and chanting scriptures. Unconsciously, the rainwater flowed into the wheat.
When his wife came back, she felt strange and asked him, and he realized it.
Later he became a famous Confucian and taught his disciples in the Western Tang Mountains.
Neighbors who were fighting over property were fighting with weapons. Gao Feng went to try to persuade him. As a last resort, he took off his turban, knelt, and resolutely requested: "Why have you forgotten all about benevolence, righteousness, and humiliation?"
The combatants were moved and put down their weapons to apologize to him.
Gao Feng was old, but he persisted in his ambitions tirelessly, and his reputation spread far and wide.
The eunuch continued to summon him, but Gao Feng was afraid that he would not be able to avoid it. He claimed that he was from the Wu family and should not be an official. He also pretended to have a lawsuit with his widowed sister-in-law over property, so he did not go out to serve as an official.
He fished invisibly and died at home. Tai Tong's biography, Tai Tong's courtesy name is Xiaowei, and he was born in Ye, Wei County. He lives in seclusion in Wu'an Mountain, digging caves as his residence and collecting medicine as his occupation.
During the early years of Jian's reign, he was not summoned by the state.
When the governor arrived at Ye, he sent an official to visit Tai Tong.
Tong Zaibing went to express his thanks.
The governor took the meeting gift and asked Tong: "It's very hard for Xiaowei to live like this. What should I do?"
Tong said: Fortunately, I was able to save my life and maintain my peace.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
如明使君奉宣诏书，夕惕庶事，反不苦邪？
遂去，隐逸，终不见。
韩康字伯休，一名恬休，京兆霸陵人。
家世著姓。
常采药名山，卖于长安市，口不二价，三十余年。
时有女子从康买药，康守价不移。
女子怒曰： 公是韩伯休那？
乃不二价乎？
康叹曰： 我本欲避名，今小女子皆知有我，何用药为？
乃遁入霸陵山中。
博士公车连征，不至。
桓帝乃备玄纁之礼，以安车聘之。
使者奉诏造康，康不得已，乃许诺。
辞安车，自乘柴车，冒晨先使者发。
至亭，亭长以韩征君当过，方发人牛修道桥。
及见康柴车幅巾，以为田叟也，使夺其牛。
康即释驾与之。
有顷，使者至，知夺牛翁乃征君也。
使者欲奏杀亭长。
康曰： 此自老子与之，亭长何罪！
乃止。
康因中道逃遁，以寿终。
translation: 
Isn't it like having an envoy read out the imperial edict in the morning and working hard at night? Isn't it not painful?
So he left, secluded himself, and never disappeared.
According to the biography of Han Kang, Han Kang's courtesy name was Boxiu, also known as Tianxiu, and he was a native of Baling, Jingzhao.
The family background is very famous.
He often went to famous mountains to collect medicinal herbs and sold them in Chang'an market. The price was always the same for more than thirty years.
At that time, a girl asked Han Kang to buy medicine, but Kang insisted that the original price should remain unchanged.
The girl lost her temper and said: Are you Han Boxiu?
Aren't they sold at two prices?
Han Kang sighed and said: "I originally wanted to keep my name from others, but now the little girl knows my name, why are I selling medicine?"
So he fled to Baling Mountain.
The doctor invited Han Kang several times on his bus, but Han Kang never came.
Emperor Huan prepared a black silk curtain as a gift and used a carriage to hire him.
The envoy went to Han Kang's home with the emperor's edict, but Han Kang had no choice but to agree.
But instead of taking an An chariot, he took a diesel chariot and set off early in the morning before the messenger set off.
When they arrived at the pavilion, the pavilion chief knew that Han Zhengjun would pass by, so he sent someone to repair the road and bridge with a cow.
Suddenly, he saw Han Kang arriving in a chariot and wearing a scarf. Thinking that he was an old man farming, he asked someone to take the cow away.
Han Kang untied the cow in front of the car and gave it to him.
Soon after, the official arrived and found that the old man who had the cow taken away was Zheng Jun.
The envoy wanted to tell the emperor to kill the pavilion chief.
Han Kang said, "I gave him this cow myself. What's the crime of the pavilion chief?"
The messenger gave up.
Han Kang fled halfway, and later died of a long life without any illness.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
矫慎字仲彦，扶风茂陵人也。
少好黄、老，隐遁山谷，因穴为室，仰慕松、乔导引之术。
与马融、苏章乡里并时，融以才博显名，章以廉直称，然皆推先于慎。
汝南吴苍甚重之，因遗书以观其志曰：仲彦足下：勤处隐约，虽乘云行泥，栖宿不同，每有西风，何尝不叹！
盖闻黄、老之言，乘虚入冥，藏身远遁，亦有理国养人，施于为政。
至如登山绝迹，神不著其证，人不睹其验。
吾欲先生从其可者，于意何如？
昔伊尹不怀道以待尧、舜之君。
方今明明，四海开辟，巢、许无为箕山，夷、齐悔入首阳。
足下审能骑龙弄凤，翔嬉云间者，亦非狐兔燕雀所敢谋也。
慎不答。
年七十余，竟不肯娶。后忽归家，自言死日，及期果卒。
后人有见慎于敦煌者，故前世异之，或云神仙焉。
慎同郡马瑶，隐于山，以兔罝为事。
所居俗化，百姓美之，号马牧先生焉。
translation: 
Jiao Shen's biography, whose courtesy name is Zhongyan, was born in Maoling, Fufeng.
When I was young, I loved the learning of Huangdi and Laozi. I lived in seclusion in the valley, built a house in a cave, and admired the skills of pine and Qiao Daoyin.
When they merged with Ma Rong and Su Zhang in the countryside, Ma Rong was famous for his talent and erudition, and Su Zhang was famous for his honesty, but they both put caution before Jiao Shen.
Wu Cang of Runan valued him very much. So he sent a letter to observe his ambition and path: Zhong Yan's feet: Qin's place is vague. Although he rides on the clouds and walks on the mud, his habitat is different. Every time the west wind blows, why don't he sigh!
I heard that Huang and Lao said that they took advantage of the void and entered the underworld, hid themselves and escaped, and also managed the country and nourished the people, and made achievements in politics.
It's like climbing a mountain to the point where it becomes extinct, God doesn't see its proof, and people don't see its effect.
I think what do you think of it, sir?
In the past, Yi Yin did not have the right to treat the kings of Yao and Shun.
In today's Ming Dynasty, the world has opened up. Chao and Xu Wuwei are in Jishan, while Yi and Qihui are in Shouyang Mountain.
Being able to ride a dragon or a phoenix or fly among the clouds with one single step is beyond the imagination of a fox, rabbit or sparrow.
Jiao Shen didn't answer.
When he was more than seventy years old, he refused to marry. Later, he suddenly returned home and told himself the day when he was going to die, and he died on time.
Later, someone saw Jiao Shen in Dunhuang, so he was different from his previous life. Some people said that he was an immortal.
Ma Yao, a native of the same county as Jiao Shen, lives in seclusion in the mountains and makes a living by catching rabbits.
The place where he lived was secularized, and the people praised him and called him Mr. Ma Mu.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
戴良字叔鸾，汝南慎阳人也。
曾祖父遵，字子高，平帝时，为侍御史。
王莽篡位，称病归乡里。家富，好给施，尚侠气，食客常三四百人。
时人为之语曰： 关东大豪戴子高。
良少诞节，母憙驴鸣，良常学之，以娱乐焉。
及母卒，兄伯鸾居庐啜粥，非礼不行，良独食肉饮酒，哀至乃哭，而二人俱有毁容。
或问良曰： 子之居丧，礼乎？
良曰： 然。
礼所以制情佚也。情苟不佚，何礼之论！
夫食旨不甘，故致毁容之实。若味不存口，食之可也。
论者不能夺之。
良才既高达，而论议尚奇，多骇流俗。
同郡谢季孝问曰： 子自视天下孰可为比？
良曰： 我若仲尼长东鲁，大禹出西羌，独步天下，谁与为偶！
举孝廉，不就。
再辟司空府，弥年不到，州郡迫之，乃遁辞诣府，悉将妻子，既行在道，因逃入江夏山中。
优游不仕，以寿终。初，良五女并贤，每有求姻，辄便许嫁，疏裳布被、竹笥木屐以遣之。五女能遵其训，皆有隐者之风焉。
translation: 
Dai Liang's biography, Dai Liang's courtesy name Shuluan, was born in Shenyang, Runan.
Great-grandfather Dai Zun, named Zigao, served as a censor during the reign of Emperor Ping.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and returned to his hometown claiming to be ill. His family was rich, good at giving, and chivalrous. There were often three to four hundred people at home.
At that time, people said this: Dai Zigao, a great man in Guandong.
On Dai Liang's birthday, his mother brayed, and Liang often imitated it for entertainment.
After his mother died, his brother Boluan lived in the house and drank porridge, which was not rude, but Liang ate meat and drank alcohol. He cried in grief, and both of them lost weight.
Someone asked Dai Liang: Is it appropriate for you to be in mourning?
Liang said: Yes.
Ritual is to control feelings. If love is not lost, what are the etiquettes?
If you eat delicious food but don't feel its sweetness, your appearance will be ruined. If the taste doesn't leave your mouth, you can eat it.
The critics could not convince him.
Dai Liang's talents were both high and unique, and often surprised the common people.
Xie Jixiao from the same county asked: Who do you think can be compared with others in the world?
Liang said: I am like Confucius who was born in the state of Lu, and Yu the Great came from the Western Qiang and was the only one in the world. Who can be my mate?
Dai Liang was promoted to be filial and honest, but he refused.
He summoned Sikong Mansion again. Within a year, the prefectures and counties urged him, so he went to the Mansion with modest words, sent his wife away, and fled into the mountains of Jiangxia. If you travel leisurely but do not serve, you will end up with a long life.
At first, Dai Liang's five daughters were all virtuous. Whenever someone wanted to marry, they were allowed to marry, and they were accompanied by loose clothes, cloth quilts, bamboo hats and wooden clogs. The five daughters can obey their father's instructions and have the demeanor of a hermit.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
法真字高卿，扶风眉阝人，南郡太守雄之子也。
好学而无常家，博通内外图典，为关西大儒。
弟子自远方至者，陈留范冉等数百人。
性恬静寡欲，不交人间事。
太守请见之，真乃幅巾诣谒。
太守曰： 昔鲁哀公虽为不肖，而仲尼称臣。
太守虚薄，欲以功曹相屈，光赞本朝，何如？
真曰： 以明府见待有礼，故敢自同宾末。
若欲吏之，真将在北山之北，南山之南矣。
太守然，不敢复言。
辟公府，举贤良，皆不就。
同郡田弱荐真曰： 处士法真，体兼四业，学穷典奥，幽居恬泊，乐以忘忧。将蹈老氏之高踪，不为玄纁屈也。
臣愿圣朝就加衮职，必能唱《清庙》之歌，致来仪之凤矣。
会顺帝西巡，弱又荐之。
帝虚心欲致，前后四征。
真曰： 吾既不能遁形远世，岂饮洗耳之水哉？
遂深自隐绝，终不降屈。
友人郭正称之曰： 法真名可得闻，身难得而见，逃名而名我随，避名而名我追，可谓百世之师者矣！
乃共刊石颂之，号曰玄德先生。
年八十九，中平五年，以寿终。
汉阴老父者，不知何许人也。
桓帝延熹中，幸竟陵，过云梦，临沔水，百姓莫不观者，有老父独耕不辍。
translation: 
Fa Zhenzhuan, Fa Zhen's courtesy name is Gao Qing, a native of Fufeng, and the son of Fa Xiong, the prefect of Nanjun.
He is a great Confucian in Kansai who is eager to learn and not stick to any particular school. He is well versed in both internal and external classics.
Disciples came from far away, including Chen Liu, Fan Ran and hundreds of others.
The true nature of Dharma is quiet and has few desires, and is not interested in hearing about human affairs.
The prefect asked to see him, and Fa Zhen arrived with a scarf.
The prefect said: In the past, although Duke Ai of Lu was not a virtuous man, Zhongni still served as his minister.
The prefect is weak, and I would like to ask you to serve as a meritorious officer and praise this dynasty. How about it?
Fazhen said: Because the Ming Dynasty treated me with such courtesy, I dare not stay with the guests.
If you want to use me as an official, I will be north of Beishan and south of Nanshan.
The prefect felt strange and did not dare to say anything more.
When setting up a government office and promoting virtuous people, the Dharma and the truth are not enough.
Tongjun Tian Ruo recommends Fa Zhen Dao: A scholar of Fa Zhen, proficient in poetry, calligraphy, etiquette, and music, with all the knowledge and classics, goes out of the deep mountains, entertains himself peacefully, and is happy to forget his worries. He will follow Lao Tzu's high footsteps and will not be succumbed to Xuan Xunxun's etiquette.
I wish that the Holy Dynasty would add the post of Sangong, and I would definitely be able to sing the song "Qing Temple" and attract the phoenix.
It happened that Emperor Shun was on a hunting tour in the west, and Tian Ruo recommended him.
Emperor Xu wanted to invite him, so he called him four times.
Fazhen said: Since I can't escape from this world, how can I drink the water that Xuyou washes my ears with?
So he lived in seclusion.
My friend Guo Zhengcheng said: Fazhen's name can be heard, but his body is rare. If he runs away from his name but his name follows me, he avoids his name but his name follows me. He can be regarded as a master of all generations.
So they published a book praising him and called him Mr. Xuande.
He died at the age of eighty-nine, five years after his death.
The biography of Hanyin Laofu, Hanyin Laofu, I don’t know who he is.
During the Yanxi period of Emperor Huan, the emperor was lucky enough to visit the mausoleum, pass by Yunmeng, and visit the Mianshui River. The common people all went to see it, and there was an old man who continued to farm alone.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
尚书郎南阳张温异之，使问曰： 人皆来观，老父独不辍，何也？
老父笑而不对。
温下道百步，自与言。
老父曰： 我野人耳，不达斯语。
请问天下乱而立天子邪？
理而立天子邪？
立天子以父天下邪？
役天下以奉天子邪？
昔圣王宰世，茅茨采椽，而万人以宁。
今子之君，劳人自纵，逸游无忌。
吾为子羞之，子何忍欲人观之乎！
温大惭。
问其姓名，不告而去。
陈留老父者，不知何许人也。
桓帝世，党锢事起，守外黄令陈留张升去官归乡里，道逢友人，共班草而言。
升曰： 吾闻赵杀鸣犊，仲尼临河而反；覆巢竭渊，龙凤逝而不至。
今宦竖日乱，陷害忠良，贤人君子其去朝乎？
夫德之不建，人之无援，将性命之不免，奈何？
因相抱而泣。
老父趋而过之，植其杖，太息言曰： 吁！二大夫何泣之悲也？
夫龙不隐鳞，凤不藏羽，网罗高县，去将安所？虽泣何及乎！
translation: 
Zhang Wen, the minister of Nanyang, felt strange and sent someone to ask: "People are coming to watch, but my father keeps plowing alone. Why?"
The old man smiled but did not answer.
Zhang Wen came down and walked a hundred steps to talk to his father in person.
The old father said: I am a savage and I don’t understand this.
May I ask why the emperor was established because of chaos in the world?
Or is it to establish the emperor because of governance?
Is the purpose of establishing the Son of Heaven to be the father of all people in the world?
Or enslave the common people to support the emperor?
In the past, the sage kings ruled the world, raised rafters and raised rafters, and all surnames were peaceful.
Today, your king works hard for the people but indulges himself and enjoys leisurely life without restraint.
I'm ashamed of you. How can you bear to let others watch?
Zhang Wen was greatly ashamed after hearing this.
Ask him his name and leave without telling him.
The biography of Chen Liu's father, Chen Liu's father, I don't know who he is.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, the party's insurrection broke out, and Huang Shuwai ordered Zhang Sheng, a native of Chenliu, to leave his official position and return to his hometown. Meeting friends on the road, we spread the grass together and sat on the ground to talk.
Zhang Sheng said: I heard that the people of Zhao killed Mingdu, and Confucius went to the riverside and returned;
Today there is chaos in the officialdom and the slander of loyal and good people. Will the virtuous and gentlemen leave the court?
If virtue is not established and people are helpless, their lives will be inevitable in the future. What should we do?
So they hugged each other and cried.
The old father walked past in a hurry, leaning on his staff and sighing: Oh, why is the second doctor crying so sadly?
The dragon does not hide its scales, the phoenix does not hide its feathers, the snare is hung high, no matter where it goes, what is the use of crying?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
二人欲与之语，不顾而去，莫知所终。
庞公者，南郡襄阳人也。
居岘山之南，未尝入城府。夫妻相敬如宾。
荆州刺史刘表数延请，不能屈，乃就候之。
谓曰： 夫保全一身，孰若保全天下乎？
庞公笑曰： 鸿鹄巢于高林之上，暮而得所栖；鼋鼍穴于深渊之下，夕而得所宿。夫趣舍行止，亦人之巢穴也。
且各得其栖宿而已，天下非所保也。
因释耕于垄上，而妻子耘于前。
表指而问曰： 先生苦居畎亩而不肯官禄，后世何以遗子孙乎？
庞公曰： 世人皆遗之以危，今独遗之以安。虽所遗不同，未为无所遗也。
表叹息而去。
后遂携其妻子登鹿门山，因采药不反。
translation: 
The two wanted to talk to him, but left without knowing where they ended up.
The biography of Pang Gong, Pang Gong, was from Xiangyang, Nanjun.
They live in the south of Xian Mountain and have never been to the city. The husband and wife treat each other as if they were guests.
Liu Biao, the governor of Jingzhou, invited him several times but could not give in, so he went to visit him.
He said to him: If you can protect yourself, how can you protect the world?
Pang Gong laughed and said: "The swan makes its nest in the high forest, and only has a place to rest at night; the stork makes its nest in the abyss, and only finds its home at night. People's choices and actions are also human nests."
For the time being, everyone has his own place to stay, the world is not protected.
So he plowed the soil on the ridges while his wife weeded the fields.
Liu Biao pointed out and asked: "Master works in the fields and refuses to receive official salary. What will he leave to his descendants in the future?"
Pang Gong said: "Everyone in the world leaves danger to their descendants, but now I leave peace to our descendants. Although the legacy is different, it can't be regarded as no legacy."
Liu Biao sighed and left.
Later, Pang Gong and his wife went to Lumen Mountain, but they never came back because they were collecting medicinal herbs.


