Chunk 0: 
original: 
高皇帝八男：吕后生孝惠帝，曹夫人生齐悼惠王肥，薄姬生孝文帝，戚夫人生赵隐王如意，赵姬生淮南厉王长，诸姬生赵幽王友、赵共王恢、燕灵王建。
淮南厉王长自有传。
齐倬惠王肥，其母高祖微时外妇也。
高祖六年立，食七十余城。
诸民能齐言者皆与齐。
孝惠二年，入朝。
帝与齐王燕饮太后前，置齐王上坐，如家人礼。
太后怒，乃令人酌两卮鸩酒置前，令齐王为寿。
齐王起，帝亦起，欲俱为寿。
太后恐，自起反卮。
齐王怪之，因不敢饮，阳醉去。
问，知其鸩，乃忧，自以为不得脱长安。
内史士曰： 太后独有帝与鲁元公主，今王有七十余城，而公主乃食数城。
王诚以一郡上太后为公主汤沐邑，太后必喜，王无患矣。
于是齐王献城阳郡以尊公主为王太后。
吕太后喜而许之。
乃置酒齐邸，乐饮，遣王归国。
后十三年薨，子襄嗣。
赵隐王如意，九年位。
四年，高祖崩，吕太后征王到长安，鸩杀之。
无子，绝。
赵幽王友，十一年立为淮阳王。
赵隐王如意死，孝惠元年，徙友王赵，凡立十四年。
友以诸吕女为后，不爱，爱它姬。
诸吕女怒去，谗之于太后曰： 王曰 吕氏安得王？
太后百岁后，吾必击之。  太后怒，以故召赵王。
赵王至，置邸不见，令卫国守之，不得食。
其群臣或窃馈之，辄捕论之。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had eight sons: Empress Lu begat Emperor Xiaohui, Lady Cao was the father of King Qiyouhui Liu Fei, Bo Ji was the father of Emperor Xiaowen, Lady Qi was the father of Zhaowu King Liu Ruyi, Gui Xun was the father of Huainan King Li Xingzhou, and other concubines were the children of Zhao Youwang Suqu, Zhao Gongwang Liu Yue, and Jixi King Liu Jian.
Huainan Li Wang Xingzhou has his own biography.
The mother of Liu Fei, King Hui of Qi, was Gaozu's mistress when he was a commoner.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Liu Fei was made king, and he had more than seventy cities under his control.
All the common people who could speak the language of Qi were given to the State of Qi.
In the second year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, King Qi went to the capital to meet Emperor Hui.
Emperor Hui held a banquet in front of Empress Dowager Lu to entertain King Qi. According to family etiquette, Emperor Hui invited his eldest brother, King Qi, to sit at the head of the table.
Empress Dowager Lu was so furious that she had two glasses of poisoned wine poured in front of her, and asked King Qi to offer wine to celebrate his birthday.
King Qi stood up, and Emperor Hui also stood up, wanting to celebrate his birthday with wine.
The Queen Mother was frightened, so she stood up and knocked over the wine glass.
King Qi felt strange and did not dare to drink anymore. He pretended to be drunk and left.
Later, I found out that the wine wrapped in wine was poisonous. I was very worried and thought that I would not be able to leave Chang'an and return home.
The historian said: The Queen Mother only gave birth to Emperor Hui and Princess Lu Yuan. Now there are more than seventy cities in your country, but the princess's food town is only a few cities.
You might as well dedicate a county to the Queen Mother and use it as a place to increase the princess's food and fiefdom. In this way, the Queen Mother will definitely be happy, and the King will be free from disaster.
Therefore, the King of Qi dedicated Chengyang County and honored Princess Lu Yuan as the Queen Mother.
Queen Mother Lu happily agreed.
So they held a banquet at Qi's residence in the capital, drank and had fun together, and sent King Qi back to his country.
Thirteen years later, King Liu Fei of Qi died, and his eldest son Liu Xiang succeeded to the throne.
Liu Ruyi, King of Zhao Yin, was established as King of Zhao in the ninth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign.
Four years later, Gaozu died, and Empress Dowager Lu summoned King Zhao Ruyi to Chang'an to kill him.
He had no sons and his country was extinct.
Liu You, King of Zhao You, was established as King of Huaiyang in the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign.
In the year when Zhao Yin King Liu Ruyi died, which was the first year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, he was granted the title of King of Zhao and reigned for fourteen years.
Liu You took the daughter of the Lu family as his queen. He did not love the queen, but loved other concubines.
The daughter of the Lu family left in anger and slandered the Empress Dowager Lu: "The King of Zhao said, why should a member of the Lu family hold the throne?"
After the death of the Queen Mother, I must kill them. The Queen Mother was furious, so she summoned King Zhao.
After King Zhao entered the capital, he abandoned his residence and refused to receive him. He also ordered guards to besiege him and refused to give him anything to eat.
The ministers of Zhao State sometimes gave him food in private, but they were immediately arrested and punished.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
赵王饿，乃歌曰： 诸吕用事兮，刘氏微；迫胁王侯兮，强授我妃。
我妃既妒兮，诬我以恶；谗女乱国兮，上曾不寤。
我无忠臣兮，何故弃国？
自快中野兮，苍天与直！
于嗟不可悔兮，宁早自贼！
为王饿死兮，谁者怜之？
吕氏绝理兮，托天报仇！ 遂幽死。
以民礼葬之长安。
高后崩，孝文即位，立幽王子遂为赵王。
二年，有司请立皇子为王。
上曰： 赵幽王幽死，朕甚怜之。
已立其长子遂为赵王。
遂弟辟强及齐悼惠王子朱虚侯章、东牟侯兴居有功，皆可王。
于是取赵之河间立辟强，是为河间文王。
文王立十三年薨，子哀王福嗣。
一年薨，无子，国除。
赵王遂立二十六年，孝景时晁错以过削赵常山郡，诸侯怨，吴、楚反，遂与合谋起兵。
其想建德、内史王悍谏，不听。遂烧杀德，悍，兵发住其西界，欲待吴、楚俱进，北使匈奴与连和。
汉使曲周侯郦寄击之，赵王城守邯郸，相距七月。
吴、楚败，匈奴闻之，亦不肯入边。
栾布自破齐还，并兵引水灌赵城。
城坏，王遂自杀，国除。
景帝怜赵相、内史守正死，皆封其子为列侯。
赵共王恢。
十一年，梁王彭越诛，立恢为梁王。
十六年，赵幽王死，吕后徙恢王赵，恢心不乐。
太后以吕产女为赵王后，王后从官皆诸吕也，内擅权，微司赵王，王不得自恣。
王有爱姬，王后鸩杀之。
translation: 
King Zhao was hungry and lamented: The Lu family is monopolistic, but the Liu family is weak; coerce the princes and give me concubines by force.
The concubine is so jealous that she falsely accuses me of a crime; the woman slanders her and ruins the country, but the emperor cannot know about it.
I have no loyal ministers, so why should I accept the call and abandon my country?
I am happy in the fields, hoping that heaven will come to judge my integrity!
It is impossible to regret, I would rather commit suicide earlier!
If you are a king and starve to death, who will take pity on you?
Mr. Lu violated the laws of nature. I could only ask heaven for revenge, so I died in confinement.
The imperial court buried him in Chang'an with the courtesy of a commoner.
After the death of Empress Dowager Lu, Emperor Wen of Han ascended the throne and established Liu Sui, the son of King You, as King of Zhao.
The following year, the officials in charge asked the prince to be crowned king.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty said: King Zhao You died in confinement. I pity him very much.
His eldest son Liu Sui has been established as King of Zhao.
Liu Sui's younger brother Liu Piqiang, Prince Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, son of King Qi Yaohui, and Shu Mouhou Liu Xingju all have meritorious services and can be established as kings.
Therefore, Hejian County was taken from Zhao State and Liu Piqiang was established as King Wen of Hejian.
Thirteen years later, Liu Piqiang died and his son Liu Fu, King Ai, succeeded him.
Liu Fu died after one year as king. He had no sons and the feudal state was abolished.
King Zhao Liu Sui was king for twenty-six years. When Emperor Mo Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo thought that King Zhao was at fault and cut off the Changshan County of Zhao State. The princes were dissatisfied and Wu, Chu and other countries rebelled. Liu Sui also participated in the conspiracy and raised troops to attack the Han Dynasty.
Zhao's Prime Minister Jiande and Internal History Wang Han advised him, but Liu Sui not only refused to listen, but also burned Jiande and Wang Han to death. He sent troops to garrison the western border of Zhao, hoping to wait for the troops of Wu and Chu to join up and then move westward. He also sent people north to contact the Xiongnu.
The Han Dynasty sent Quzhou Hou Liji to attack Zhao. The King of Zhao garrisoned Handan and resisted the Han soldiers for seven months.
Wu and Chu were defeated. When the Xiongnu heard about it, they refused to send troops to help.
Shi! After defeating Manzhi, Xi led his troops back, joined forces with Li Zhou and others to attack Zhao, and diverted water to fill the city.
After the city was broken, the Zhao royal family committed suicide in a tunnel and Zhao Li was deposed.
Lian Kentong felt sorry for Zhao Moxiang and Nei Shi who died for insisting on respecting the imperial court, and named their sons as marquises.
Liu Hui, the king of the Communist Party of Zhao.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, after he executed Peng Yue, the king of Liang, he established Liu Hui as king of Liang.
In the 16th year, Empress Dowager Lu killed King You of Zhao and moved Liu Hui to King Zhao. Liu Hui was unhappy.
Empress Dowager Lu married Lu Chan's daughter to King Zhao and became the queen. The queen's attendants were all members of the Lu family. They monopolized power in the palace and secretly observed King Zhao. King Zhao could not do whatever he wanted.
King Zhao had a beloved concubine who was poisoned to death by the queen with wine.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
王乃为歌诗四章，令乐人歌之。
王悲思，六月自杀。
太后闻之，以为用妇人故自杀，无思奉宗庙礼，废其嗣。燕灵王建。
十一年，燕王卢绾亡入匈奴，明年，立建为燕王。
十五年薨，有美人子，太后使人杀之，绝后。
齐悼惠王子，前后凡九人为王：太子襄为齐哀王，次子章为城阳景王，兴居为济北王，将闾为齐王，志为济北王，辟光为济南王，贤为菑川王，卬为胶西王，雄渠为胶东王。
齐哀王襄，孝惠六年嗣立。明年，惠帝崩，吕太后称制。
元年，以其兄子鄜侯吕台为吕王，割齐之济南郡为吕王奉邑。
明年，哀王弟章入宿卫于汉，高后封为朱虚侯，以吕禄女妻之。
后四年，封章弟兴居为东牟侯，皆宿卫长安。
高后七年，割齐琅邪郡，立营陵侯刘泽为琅邪王。
是岁，赵王友幽死于邸。
三赵王既废，高后立诸吕为三王，擅权用事。
章年二十，有气力，忿刘氏不得职。
尝入侍燕饮，高后令章为酒吏。
章自请曰： 臣，将种也，请得以军法行酒。
高后曰： 可。
酒酣，章进歌舞，已而曰： 请为太后言耕田。
高后儿子畜之，笑曰： 顾乃父知田耳，若生而为王子，安知田乎？ 章曰： 臣知之。
太后曰： 试为我言田意。
章曰： 深耕穊种，立苗欲疏；非其种者，鉏而去之。
太后默然。
顷之，诸吕有一人醉，亡酒，章追，拔剑斩之而还报曰： 有亡酒一人，臣谨行军法斩之。
太后左右大惊。
业已许其军法，亡以罪也。因罢酒。
自是后，诸吕惮章，虽大臣皆依朱虚侯。
刘氏为强。
其明年，高后崩。
赵王吕禄为上将军，吕王产为相国，皆居长安中，聚兵以威大臣，欲为乱。
章以吕禄女为妇，知其谋，乃使人阴出告其兄齐玉，欲令发兵西，朱虚侯、东牟侯欲从中与大臣为内应，以诛诸吕，因立齐王为帝。
translation: 
King Zhao composed a song in four chapters and ordered the musicians to sing.
King Zhao was overly sad and committed suicide six months later.
After Empress Dowager Lu heard about it, she thought it was a woman who committed suicide instead of offering sacrifices to the ancestral temple, so she deposed her country and cut off her inheritance of the throne. Liu Jian, King of Yanling.
In the eleventh year of Mo Gaozu's reign, King Lu Wan of Yan defected to the Huns. The following year, Liu Jian was granted the title of King of Yan.
In the fifteenth year, Liu Jian died, and his son by a beautiful woman was killed by Dan Liqiu's men. The heirs were extinct and the country was abolished.
Nine of the sons of King Hui of Qi Yao were established as kings: the prince Shengjin was the king of Qisei, the second son Xingtong was the king of Chengyangjing, Liu Xingri was the king of Ji Dongdou, Liu Laoyi was the king of Bian, Yan Jin was the king of Zhamu, Su Biguang was the king of Zamu, Xingtong was the king of Lancong, Xingsheng was the king of Zhuiyou, and Liu Xiongji was the king of bran.
Liu Xiang, King Ai of Qi, succeeded to the throne in the sixth year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty. The following year, Emperor Hui died, and Empress Dowager Lu came to rule.
In the first year of Gaohou's reign, Lu Tai, the son of Queen Lu's brother, was granted the title of King of Lu, and the Jinan County of Naoqi was divided into his own state.
The next year, Liu Zhang, the younger brother of King Ai, was summoned to the capital to guard the Han court. He was named Zhu Xuhou and married to him Lu Lu's daughter.
Four years later, Liu Zhang's younger brother Liu Xingju was granted the title of Marquis of Cambodia, and both of them guarded the Han court in Chang'an.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao's reign, the Langye County of Qi was divided, and Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, was granted the title of King of Langye.
In the same year, King Zhao Liu You was imprisoned and died in the royal residence in the capital.
Since the three kings of Zhao were deposed, Empress Gao selected three from the Lu family as kings and took over the power to handle affairs.
Liu Zhang was twenty years old at the time and was very powerful. He was dissatisfied that Liu could not get his authority.
He once went to the palace to serve the Empress Dowager Lu at a banquet, and the Empress Dowager Lu ordered Liu Zhang to be the drinking officer.
Liu Zhang demanded: "I am a descendant of a military general. Please follow military laws and enforce the drinking order."
Queen Mother Lu said: Yes.
When he was enjoying his drink, Liu Zhang presented songs and dances for people to enjoy while drinking. After a while, he said: Please allow me to tell the Queen Mother about farming.
Empress Dowager Lu regarded Liu Zhang as a child and said with a smile: "I think your father knows about farming. You were already a prince when you were born. How can you know about farming?" Liu Zhang said: "I know."
The Queen Mother said: Try to tell me about plowing.
Liu Zhang said: When plowing deeply and planting densely, the remaining seedlings should be sparse; if they are not of the same kind, they should be hoed away.
The Queen Mother listened and remained silent.
After a while, one of Lu's children got drunk and ran away from the banquet. Liu Zhang chased after him, drew his sword and killed him. He came back and reported to the Queen Mother: There was a man who escaped drinking, and I beheaded him in accordance with military law.
The Queen Mother and the people around her were greatly surprised.
Because he had agreed to drink according to military law, he could not be punished, so the banquet was abandoned.
From then on, the descendants of the Lu family were afraid of Liu Zhang, and even the ministers obeyed Liu Zhang.
The Liu family became stronger.
The following year, Queen Mother Lu died.
King Lu Lu of Zhao was the general, and King Lu Chan was the prime minister. They both lived in Chang'an, the capital, and gathered troops to threaten the ministers and attempt to rebel and cause rebellion.
Liu Zhang's wife was Lu Lu's daughter, so she knew about their conspiracy. Liu Zhang then secretly sent someone to tell his brother King Qi that he wanted him to send troops to the capital. Zhu Xuhou, Dongmuhou and Han ministers acted as internal agents in order to kill the Lu family's descendants and make King Qi emperor.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
齐王闻此计，与其舅驷钧、郎中令祝午、中尉魏勃阴谋发兵。
齐相召平闻之，乃发兵入卫王宫。
魏勃给平曰： 王欲发兵，非有汉虎符验也。
而相君围王，固善。
勃请为君将兵卫卫王。
召平信之，乃使魏勃将。
勃既将，以兵围相府。
召平曰： 嗟乎！
道家之言 当断不断，反受其乱 。
遂自杀。
于是齐王以驷钧为相，魏勃为将军，祝午为内史，悉发国中兵。使祝午给琅邪王曰： 吕氏为乱，齐王发兵欲西诛之。
齐王自以儿子，年少，不习兵革之事，愿举国委大王。
大王自高帝将也，习战事。
齐王不敢离兵，使臣请大王幸之临菑见齐王计事，并将齐兵以西平关中之乱。
琅邪王信之，以为然，乃驰见齐王。
齐王与魏勃等因留琅邪王，而使祝午尽发琅邪国而并将其兵。
琅邪王刘泽既欺，不得反国，乃说齐王曰： 齐悼惠王，高皇帝长子也，推本言之，大王高皇帝適长孙也，当立。
今诸大臣狐疑未有所定，而泽于刘氏最为长年，大臣固待泽决计。
今大王留臣无为也，不如使我入关计事。
齐王以为然，乃益具车送琅邪王。
琅邪王既行，齐遂举兵西攻吕国之济南。
于是齐王遗诸侯王书曰： 高帝平定天下，王诸子弟。
悼惠王薨，惠帝使留侯张良立臣为齐王。
惠帝崩，高后用事，春秋高，听诸吕擅废帝更立，又杀三赵王，灭梁、赵、燕，以王诸吕，分齐国为四。
忠臣进谏，上或乱不听。
今高后崩，皇帝春秋富，未能治天下，固待大臣诸侯。
translation: 
When the King of Qi heard about this plan, he secretly prepared an army with his uncle Si Jun, Lang Zhongling Zhu Wu, and Lieutenant Wei Bo.
After Zhaoping, the Prime Minister of Qi, heard about this, he sent troops to surround the palace.
Wei Bo deceived Zhao Ping and said: King Qi wants to fight, but there is no tiger talisman from the Han Dynasty to verify it.
And it is good for the Xiang soldiers to surround the palace to protect the King of Qi.
I request you to lead soldiers to defend the King of Qi.
Zhaoping believed him and sent Wei Bo as general to lead the troops.
Since Wei Bo was a general, he sent troops to surround the Prime Minister's Mansion.
Zhao Ping said: Alas!
The Taoist maxim says: If you are unable to make a decisive decision, you will suffer the consequences.
That is, death by suicide.
Therefore, the King of Qi appointed Si Gou as the prime minister, Wei Bo as the general, and Zhu Wu as the internal historian. He recruited all the soldiers in the country and sent Zhu Wu to deceive King Langxie by saying: The Lu family is in rebellion, and the King of Qi wants to send troops to the west to attack.
The King of Qi considered himself a junior, young and not familiar with military affairs, so he was willing to hand over the army of the country to the king's command.
The king was a general during the reign of Emperor Gao and was familiar with military affairs.
Now the King of Qi does not dare to leave the army, so he sent me to invite the King to Linmiao to discuss with the King of Qi and lead the soldiers of Qi to march west to quell the rebellion in Guanzhong.
King Langye believed it and thought it was true, so he rode to see King Qi.
King Qi, Wei Bo and others took the opportunity to detain King Langxie, and sent Zhu Wu to mobilize all the troops of Langxie Kingdom, under the command of Zhu Wu.
Since Langxie King Liu Ze was deceived and could not return to his country, he persuaded the King of Qi: King Qi Huihui is the eldest son of Emperor Gao. In retrospect, the king is the eldest grandson of Emperor Gao and should be established as emperor.
Now the ministers are hesitant and undecided. And I, Liu Ze, am the oldest of the Liu family's children, so the ministers will definitely wait for me to participate in decision-making.
Now, the king has no use keeping me, so why not send me to the pass to discuss the matter of welcoming him.
King Qi thought this was right, so he prepared more chariots and horses and sent King Langxie away.
After King Langxie left, Qi State sent troops to the west to attack Jinan County of Lu State.
So the King of Qi sent people to send letters to various princes, which said: Emperor Gao has brought peace to the world and made all the sons of the clan kings.
After the death of King Hui of Qi Zhen, Emperor Hui sent Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, to make his ministers the King of Qi.
After the death of Emperor Hui, Empress Gao came to power. Because of their age, the children of the Lu family were allowed to depose the vassal kings established by Emperor Gao and make Lu the king. They also killed the three Zhao kings of Yin Wang Ruyi, You Wang Liu You, and Liang Wang Liu Hui. They destroyed Liu's three kingdoms of Liang, Zhao, and Yan, and divided the original Qi kingdom into four parts.
The loyal ministers gave advice and advice, but the Lord was confused and refused to listen.
Now that Queen Gao is dead, the emperor is still young and incapable of governing the country. He must rely on the ministers in the court and various princes.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
今诸吕又擅自尊官，聚兵严威，劫列侯忠臣，挢制以令天下，宗庙以危。
寡人帅兵入诛不当为王者。
汉闻之，相国吕产等遣大将军颍阴侯灌婴将兵击之。
婴至荥阳，乃谋曰： 诸吕举兵关中，欲危刘氏而自立，今我破齐还报，是益吕氏资也。
乃留兵屯荧阳，使人谕齐王及诸侯，与连和，以待吕氏之变而共诛之。
齐王闻之，乃屯兵西界待约。
吕禄、吕产欲作乱，朱虚侯章与太尉勃、丞相平等诛之。
章首先斩吕产，太尉勃等乃尽诛诸吕。
而琅邪王亦从齐至长安。
大臣议欲立齐王，皆曰： 母家驷钧恶戾，虎而冠者也。
访以吕氏故，几乱天下，今又立齐王，是欲复为吕氏也。
代王母家薄氏，君子长者，且代王，高帝子，于今见在，最为长。
以子则顺，以善人则大臣安。
于是大臣乃谋迎代王，而遣章以诛吕氏事告齐王，今罢兵。
灌婴在荥阳，闻魏勃本教齐王反，既诛吕氏，罢齐兵，使使召责问魏勃。
勃曰： 失火之家，岂暇先言丈人后救火乎！
因退立，股战而栗。恐不能言者，终无他语。
灌将军孰视，笑曰： 人谓魏勃勇，妄庸人耳，何能为乎！
乃罢勃勃父以善鼓琴见秦皇帝。
及勃少时，欲求见齐相曹参，家贫无以自通，乃常独早扫齐相舍人门外。
舍人怪之，以为物而司之，得勃。
勃曰： 愿见相君无因，故为子扫，欲以求见。
于是舍人见勃，曹参因以为舍人。
translation: 
Now the descendants of the Lu family are good at high officials, gathering troops to show their majesty, threatening princes and loyal ministers, and commanding the world under the pretense of the emperor's edict. The Liu family is in danger.
I am now leading troops to the capital to kill those who should not be kings.
When the Han court heard the news that Qi had sent troops to march westward, Prime Minister Lu Chan and others sent General Yingyin Hou Guanying to lead troops to attack.
When Guan Ying arrived at Rongyang, he planned with the generals and said: The Lu family's children stationed their troops in Guanzhong and wanted to harm the Liu family and establish themselves as emperors. Now that we have defeated Qi and returned to report the victory, we have increased the power of the Lu family's children!
So he stood still and stationed his army in Rongyang, and sent people to inform the King of Qi and other princes to maintain friendly relations with them, so as to wait for the Lu family's children to mutiny and jointly attack them.
After hearing this, the King of Qi stationed troops on the western border of Qi State to wait for the agreement.
Lu Lu and Lu Chan were about to cause trouble, but Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang, Taiwei Zhou Bo, and Prime Minister Chen Ping killed the Lu family.
Liu Zhang first killed Lu Chan, and then Taiwei Zhou Bo and others killed all the Lu family's descendants.
King Langxie also arrived in Chang'an from Qi.
The ministers discussed how to make the King of Qi the emperor, and they all said: The Sijun of the Queen of Qi's mother's family is very ferocious and is the biggest tiger.
Nowadays, the Lu family has almost brought chaos to the world because of its monopoly on power. Now they want to make King Qi the emperor in order to support another Lu family group.
Dai Wang's mother's family is Bo.
They are kind and kind people. Moreover, King Dai is the son of Emperor Gao, who is still alive and the oldest.
As the son of Emperor Gao, it is natural to inherit the throne. If a good person is the emperor, the ministers will feel at ease. So the ministers planned to welcome the acting king, and sent Liu Zhang to tell the King of Qi that the Lu family had been killed, and ordered him to stop his troops.
When Guan Ying was in Rongyang, he heard that Wei Bo had originally taught the King of Qi to rebel. After killing the Lu family, the Qi soldiers dismissed and returned, so he sent an envoy to summon Wei Bo to question him.
Wei Bo said: The house is on fire. Who has time to tell the parents first and then put out the fire?
So he stood back, trembling all over, too frightened to speak, and had nothing else to say.
Guan Ying looked at it for a long time and said with a smile: People say that Wei Bo is brave, but in fact he is just an arrogant mediocre person, how can he accomplish anything?
So Wei Bo was dismissed from his post. Wei Bo's father once met Qin Shihuang because he played the piano well.
When Wei Bo was a teenager, he tried to seek an audience with Cao Shen, the Prime Minister of Qi State. Because his family was poor, he had no way to get through, so he often went to Qi State Prime Minister's Mansion to sweep the floor alone early in the morning.
The stranger was surprised and thought it was a ghost, so he looked in secret and found that it was Wei Bo.
Wei Bo said: I want to see the Prime Minister but don't have the chance, so I clean the door for you in order to have the opportunity to see the Prime Minister.
So this person of the house introduced him to the prime minister Cao Shen, and Cao Shen asked him to become a person of the house.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
壹为参御言事，以为贤，言之悼惠王。
王召见，拜为内史。
始悼惠王得自置二千石。
及悼惠王薨，哀王嗣，勃用事重于相。
齐王既罢兵归，而代王立，是为孝文帝。
文帝元年，尽以高后时所割齐之城阳、琅邪、济南郡复予齐，而徙琅邪王王燕。
益封朱虚侯、东牟侯各二千户，黄金千斤。
是岁，齐哀王薨，子文王则嗣。
十四年薨，无子，国除。
城阳景王章，孝文二年以朱虚侯与东牟侯兴居俱立，二年薨。
子共王喜嗣。
孝文十二年，徙王淮南，五年，复还王城阳，凡立三十三年薨。
子顷王延嗣，二十六年薨。
子敬王义嗣，九年薨。
子惠王武嗣，十一年薨。
子荒王顺嗣，四十六年薨。
子戴王恢嗣，八年薨。
子孝王景嗣，二十四年薨。
子哀王云嗣，一年薨，无子，国绝。
成帝复立云兄俚为城阳王，王莽时绝。
济北王兴居初以东牟倨与大臣共立文帝于代邸，曰： 诛吕氏，臣无功，请与太仆滕公俱入清宫。
遂将少帝出，迎皇帝入宫。
始诛诸吕时，朱虚侯章功尤大，大臣许尽以赵地王章，尽以梁地王兴居。
及文帝立，闻朱虚、东牟之初欲立齐王，故黜其功。
二年，王诸子，乃割齐二郡以王章、兴居。
章、兴居意自以失职夺功。
岁余，章薨，而匈奴大入边，汉多兵发，丞相灌婴将击之，文帝亲幸太原。
兴居以为天子自击胡，遂发兵反，上闻之，罢兵归长安，使棘蒲侯柴将军击破，虏济北王。
translation: 
Once he was driving for Cao Shen and made some suggestions on the way. Cao Shen thought he had talent and recommended him to King Hui of Qi.
The King of Qi summoned him and appointed him as internal history.
From then on, King Qi Hui gained the power to appoint officials with two thousand stones.
After the death of King Hui of Qi, King Ai succeeded to the throne, and Wei Bo came to power, with more power than the prime minister of Qi.
The King of Qi had withdrawn his troops and returned to his country, and King Dai was made emperor, the Emperor Wen of Han.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, Chengyang County, Langye County and Jinan County, which were separated from Qi State during the reign of Queen Gao, were returned to Qi State, and King Langxie was moved to Yan State as king.
Two thousand households each were granted the title of Marquis Zhuxu and Marquis Shumou. A thousand pounds of gold.
In this year, King Ai of Qi died, and his son King Sai Xin came to the throne.
He died in the fourteenth year without a son to succeed him. Bianyou was deposed and his territory returned to He.
Liu Zhang, King of Chengyang Jing, was established as king in the second year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty as Zhu Xuhou together with Liu Xingju, Shumuhou. He died in the second year of Emperor Wen's reign.
His son Liu happy, the co-king, succeeded to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, he was granted the title of King of Huainan. Five years later, he was renamed King of Chengyang. He reigned for a total of thirty-three years and died.
His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne as King of Qing. Liu Yan died in his twenty-sixth year on the throne.
His son Liu Yi succeeded him as King Jing. Liu Yi died in the ninth year of his reign.
His son Liu Wu succeeded to the throne as King Hui, and Liu Wu died in his eleventh year as king.
His son Liu Shun succeeded him as King Huang. Liu Shun died in his forty-sixth year.
His son Liu Hui succeeded to the throne as King Dai. Liu Hui died after eight years as king.
His son Liu Jing succeeded him as King Xiao, and Liu Jing died in his twenty-fourth year.
His son Liu Yun succeeded to the throne as King Ai. Liu Yun died after one year on the throne. He had no sons. The country was exterminated and the territory was transferred to the Han Dynasty.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, Liu Yun's brother Liu Li was made King of Chengyang. During the reign of Wang Mang, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Xingju, the king of Jibei, initially welcomed Emperor Wen to the official residence of Daiguo together with the ministers as Shu Mouhou. He said: "I have no merit in killing the Lu family. I request that I go to clean up the palace with my servant Teng Gong Xia Houying."
So he brought out the young emperor appointed by the Lu family and welcomed Emperor Wen of Han into the palace to rule.
At the beginning of the crusade against the Lu family, Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang made the greatest contribution. The ministers discussed and agreed to make Liu Zhang the king of all the territories of the Zhao State, and to make Liu Xingju the king of all the territories of the Liang State.
After Emperor Wen ascended the throne, I heard that Song Xuhou and Dongmuhou had wanted to make King Qi emperor, so they deposed him and reduced the credit of the Lu family.
In the second year, Emperor Wen made the princes kings, and then divided the two counties of Qi and made Liu Zhang and Liu Xingju the princes and kings.
Liu Zhang and Xingju believed that they had lost their merit because of their dereliction of duty.
More than a year later, Liu Zhang died. At that time, the Xiongnu invaded the border in large numbers, and the Han Dynasty sent a large number of troops. Prime Minister Guan Ying led the attack, and Emperor Wen personally went to Taiyuan to supervise the battle.
Liu Xingju believed that the emperor wanted to personally attack the Xiongnu, so he launched an army to rebel. When Emperor Wen heard about it, he stopped his troops and returned to Chang'an. He sent General Chai Wu, the Marquis of Jipu, to defeat the rebels and capture the King of Jibei.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
王自杀，国除。
文帝悯济北王逆乱以自灭，明年，尽封悼惠王诸子罢军等七人为列侯。
至十五年，齐文王又薨，无子。
时悼惠王后尚有城阳王在，文帝怜悼惠王適嗣之绝，于是乃分齐为六国，尽立前所封悼惠王子列侯见在者六人为王。齐孝王将闾以杨虚侯立，济北王志以安都侯立，菑川王贤以武成侯立，胶东王雄渠以白石侯立，胶西王卬以平昌侯立，济南王辟光以扐侯立。
孝文十六年，六王同日俱立。
立十一年，孝景三年，吴、楚反，胶东、胶西、菑川、济南王皆发兵应吴、楚。
欲与齐，齐孝王狐疑，城守不听。
三国兵共围齐，齐王使路中大夫告于天子。天子复令路中大夫还报，告齐王坚守，汉兵今破吴、楚矣。
路中大夫至，三国兵围临菑数重，无从之。
三国将与路中大夫盟曰： 若反言汉已破矣，齐趣下三国，不且见屠。
路中大夫既许，至城下，望见齐王，曰： 汉已发兵百万，使太尉亚夫击破吴、楚，方引兵救齐，齐必坚守无下！
三国将诛路中大夫。
齐初围急，阴与三国通谋，约未定，会路中大夫从汉来，其大臣乃复劝王无下三国。
会汉将栾布、平阳侯等兵至齐，击破三国兵，解围。
已后闻齐初与三国有谋将欲移兵伐齐。
齐孝王惧，饮药自杀。
而胶东、胶西、济南、菑川王皆伏诛，国除。独济北王在。
齐孝王之自杀也，景帝闻之，以为齐首善，以迫劫有谋，非其罪也，召立孝王太子寿，是为懿王。
二十三年薨，子厉王次昌嗣。
translation: 
The king of Jibei committed suicide and the country was abolished.
Emperor Wen took pity on the King of Jibei for rebelling and destroying himself. In the second year, he made Liu Bojun, the seven sons of King Hui of Qi, and others into princes.
In the fifteenth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, King Wen of Qi Liu Ze died without a son.
But at that time, the descendants of King Qi Huihui still had King Chengyang. Emperor Wen pitied King Qi Hui because he had no legitimate son to succeed him, so he divided the Qi country into six, and the six sons of King Hui who were previously named princes were still alive. Established as kings: Yang Xuhou Liu Jianglu is the King of Qi Xiao, Anduhou Liu Zhi is the King of Jibei, Wuchenghou Liu Xian is the Miao King, Baishihou Liu Xiongqu is the Micellar King, Pingchang Hou Liu Yin is the Jiaoxi King, and Jiehou Liu Biguang is the Jinan King.
In the sixteenth year of Emperor Wen's reign, six kings were made kings on the same day.
In the eleventh year of the reign of the above-mentioned six kings, that is, the third year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Wu and Chu rebelled. The four kings of Miaojie, Jiaoxi, Lei!, and Jinan all responded by sending troops to fight against the Han.
They wanted to invite King Qi to fight against the Han, but King Xiao of Qi was hesitant, so he held on to the city and refused to rebel.
The three kingdoms of Miaojie, Miaochuan, and Jinan sent troops to surround Qi. The King of Qi sent his envoy Dr. Lu Zhong to report to Emperor Mo. The Emperor ordered Dr. Lu Zhong to return to Qi to report to King Qi, asking King Qi to defend the city. The Mo soldiers had defeated Wu and Chu.
On the way, the doctor returned to Qi. Soldiers from the Three Kingdoms surrounded Linmiao City several times and were unable to enter the city.
The generals of the Three Kingdoms and the officials on the road swore an oath: If you turn around and say that the Han Dynasty has been conquered, Qi will surrender to the Three Kingdoms as soon as possible, otherwise the city will be massacred.
Although the doctor agreed on the way, he walked to the city, looked up and saw the King of Qi, and said: The Han Dynasty has sent millions of troops, sent Taiwei Zhou Yafu to defeat Wu and Chu, and is leading troops to rescue Qi State. Qi State must hold on and not surrender!
The generals of the Three Kingdoms killed the doctor on the road.
Before that, Qi State was besieged and in great danger. It had secretly negotiated with the Three Kingdoms. Before the alliance was concluded, a senior official from the Han Dynasty happened to be on the way. The ministers of Qi State once again advised the King of Qi not to surrender to the Three Kingdoms.
It happened that Han Dynasty general Le Bu, Pingyang Marquis Cao Xiang and others led troops to Qi State, defeated the armies of the three countries and lifted the siege.
Later, when I heard that the King of Qi had conspired with the Three Kingdoms, he wanted to send troops to attack Qi.
King Xiao of Qi became frightened and committed suicide by drinking poison.
The four kings of Jiaodong, Jiaoxi, Jinan, and Miaochuan were all beheaded. Their feudal state was also abolished, leaving only the King of Jibei.
When Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty heard the news of King Qi Xiao's suicide, he believed that King Qi had no intention of rebellion at first and had other plans because of coercion. This was not his crime. Emperor Jing went down to Shao and established Liu Shou, the crown prince of Prince Xiao, as King Qi Yi.
King Yi died in the 23rd year of his reign, and his son King Li Liu Ciyuan succeeded him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
其母曰纪太后。
太后取其弟纪氏女为王后，王不爱。
纪太后欲其家重宠，令其长女纪翁主入王宫正其后宫无令得近王，欲令爱纪氏女。
王因与其姊翁主奸。
齐有宦者徐甲，入事汉皇太后。
皇太后有爱女曰修成君，修成君非刘氏子，太后怜之。
修成君有女娥，太后欲嫁之于诸侯。
宦者甲乃请使齐，必令王上书请娥。
皇太后大喜，使甲之齐。
时主父偃知甲之使齐以取后事，亦因谓甲： 即事成，幸言偃女愿得充王后宫。
甲至齐，风以此事。
纪太后怒曰： 王有后，后宫备具。
且甲，齐贫人，及为宦者入事汉，初无补益，乃欲乱吾王家！
且主父偃何为者？
乃欲以女充后宫！
甲大穷，还报皇太后曰： 王已愿尚娥，然事有所害，恐如燕王。
燕王者，与其子昆弟奸，坐死。
故以燕感太后。
太后曰： 毋复言嫁女齐事！
事浸淫闻于上。
主父偃由此与齐有隙。
偃方幸用事，因言： 齐临菑十万户，市租千金，人众殷富，巨于长安，非天子亲弟爱子不得王此。
今齐王于亲属益疏。
乃从容言吕太后时齐欲反，及吴、楚时孝王几为乱。
今闻齐王与其姊乱。
于是武帝拜偃为齐相，且正其事。
偃至齐，急治王后宫宦者为王通于姊翁主所者，辞及王。
王年少，惧以罪为吏所执诛，乃饮药自杀。
是时，赵王惧主父偃壹出败齐，恐其渐疏骨肉，乃上书言偃受金及轻重之短，天子亦因囚偃。
公孙弘曰： 齐王以忧死，无后，非诛偃无以塞天下之望。
偃遂坐诛。
translation: 
King Qi Li's mother was Queen Mother Ji.
The Queen Mother made her brother's daughter his queen, but King Qi did not love Queen Ji.
The Empress Dowager Ji wanted to pamper the Ji family for generations, so she ordered her eldest daughter Ji Wengzhu to enter the palace, control the harem, and prevent the concubines in the harem from getting close to the King of Qi. She wanted the King of Qi to love Queen Ji exclusively.
The king of Qi therefore committed adultery with his sister.
There was a eunuch named Xu Jia in the state of Qi who entered the palace to serve the empress dowager of the Han Dynasty.
The Queen Mother has a beloved daughter named Xiuchengjun. She is not born to the Liu family, and the Queen Mother loves her very much.
Xiu Chengjun has a daughter named Mo, and the Queen Mother wants her to marry the princes.
Xu Jia then requested to be sent as an envoy to the state of Qi, saying that he would definitely ask the king of Qi to write a letter requesting to marry E.
The Empress Dowager was overjoyed and sent Xu Jia to Qi.
At that time, the master's father Yan knew that Xu Jia had come to Qi to ask the King of Qi to marry the queen. He also took the opportunity to tell Xu Jia: If the matter succeeds, I hope that my daughter will be willing to join the palace of the King of Qi.
Xu Jia arrived in Qi and hinted this matter to the king of Qi.
Empress Dowager Ji was furious and said: The king of Qi has a queen, and the harem is ready.
Moreover, Xu Jia was a poor man in Qi. He had no future and became a eunuch. He went to the palace to do things. He did not do anything beneficial to Qi, but he wanted to disturb my Wang family!
Besides, what does Master Yan want to do?
I also want to enrich my daughter into my harem!
Xu Jia was greatly embarrassed and came back to report to the Queen Mother: The King of Qi is willing to marry E, but the matter may be harmful. I am worried that it will be like King Yan.
King Yan committed adultery with his daughter and sisters, and died after being found guilty.
Xu Jia therefore used the incident of King Yan to shake the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: Stop talking about marrying your daughter to King Qi!
Later, this matter gradually became known to the emperor.
As a result, Lord Fu Yan had a rift with the state of Qi.
When Zhufu Yan was favored by Emperor Wu and came into power, he took the opportunity to say: There are 100,000 households in Linmiao of Qi State, and the market transaction tax collected in one day is thousands of gold. The number of people and wealth exceeds that of Chang'an. No one who is not the emperor's biological brother or beloved son will get this throne.
Now the King of Qi is even more estranged from the royal family!
So, he told Emperor Wu from beginning to end, saying that Qi State wanted to rebel when Empress Dowager Lu was there, and when Wu and Chu rebelled, King Xiao of Qi almost also rose up in rebellion.
Now I heard that King Qi and her sister were committing adultery.
Therefore, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty worshiped his father Yan as the prime minister of Qi and asked him to preside over the trial.
The master's father Yan arrived in Qi State and quickly interrogated the eunuchs in the palace of the Queen of Qi who helped the King of Qi to clear the residence of his sister Wengzhu. His words also involved the King of Qi.
The young King of Qi was afraid that he would be arrested and executed by the officials for being guilty, so he drank poison and committed suicide.
At this time, Zhao Wang Liu Sui was afraid that his father Yan would defeat Qi as soon as he left the palace, and worried that he would gradually alienate the Liu family, so he wrote a letter saying that his father Yan had accepted bribes and had unfair intentions. The emperor also took this opportunity to imprison his father Yan.
Gongsun Hong said: The King of Qi died of worry and had no descendants. He could not satisfy the wishes of the people of the world without killing his father Yan.
The master's father Yan was killed in his seat.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
厉王立五年，国除。
济北王志，吴、楚反时初亦与通谋，后坚守不发兵，故得不诛，徙王菑川。
元朔中，齐国绝。
悼惠王后唯有二国：城阳、菑川。
菑川地比齐，武帝为悼惠王冢园在齐，乃割临菑东圜悼惠王冢园邑尽以予菑川，今奉祭祀。
志立三十五年薨，是为懿王。
子靖王建嗣，二十年薨。
子顷王遗嗣，三十五年薨。
子思王终古嗣。
五凤中，青州刺史奏终古使所爱奴与八子及诸御婢奸，终古或参与被席，或白昼使裸伏，犬马交接，终古亲临观。
产子，辄曰： 乱不可知，使去其子。
事下丞相、御史，奏： 终古位诸侯王，以今置八子，秩比六百石，所以广嗣重祖也。
而终古禽兽行，乱君臣夫妇之别，悖逆人伦，请逮捕。
有诏： 削四县。
二十八年薨。
子考王尚嗣，五年薨。
子孝王横嗣，三十一年薨。
子怀王交嗣，六年薨。
子永嗣，王莽时绝。
赞曰：悼惠之王齐，最为大国。
以海内初定，子弟少，激秦孤立亡藩辅，故大封同姓，以填天下。
时诸侯得自除御史大夫群卿以下众官，如汉朝，汉独为置丞相。
自吴、楚诛后，稍夺诸侯权，左官附益阿党之法设。
其后诸侯唯得衣食租税，贫者或乘牛车。
translation: 
King Li died after reigning for five years without any descendants, and his kingdom was abolished.
Liu Zhi, the king of Jibei, initially conspired with Wu and Chu when they rebelled, but later he held on to the city and did not send troops, so he was not executed and moved to be the king of Leichuan.
During the Yuanshuo period of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the Qi State lost its heirs and its territory returned to the Han Dynasty.
The descendants of King Qi Hui include Chengyang and Sichuan.
Sichuan was close to the State of Qi. Because Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had the tomb of King Hui in Qi, he gave all the gardens surrounding the tomb of King Hui to the State of Sichuan so that it could offer sacrifices on time.
Liu Zhi died in his thirty-fifth year as king, and was named King Yi.
His son Liu Jian, King Jing, succeeded to the throne and died twenty years ago.
His son Liu Qian, King of Qing, succeeded to the throne and died in the thirty-fifth year.
His son Liu Zhonggu, King Si, succeeded to the throne.
In the fifth year of Emperor Mo Xuan's reign, the governor of Qingzhou reported to Emperor Xuan that Liu Zhonggu had his Ai slaves commit adultery with his concubines and many of the maids who served him. He either slept with them or made them naked during the day, like animals having sex, and Zhonggu watched in person.
When a child is born, he says: If he is in chaos and does not know his father, he will kill the child.
Emperor Xuan handed the matter over to the prime minister and the imperial censor for discussion. The prime minister and the imperial censor reported that he was the king of the vassals in ancient times, and asked him to set up a concubine with the title of eight sons, with a salary rank of 600 dan, in order to allow him to have more children to respect his ancestors.
However, Zhonggu behaves like an animal, messing up the relationship between monarch, ministers, and husband and wife, and violating human ethics. Please arrest him.
The emperor then issued a letter to Shao and cut off the four counties under his jurisdiction.
Died twenty-eight years later.
His son Liu Shang, king of Kao, succeeded to the throne and died five years ago.
His son, Xiao Wang Liu Heng, succeeded to the throne and died in thirty-one years.
His son Liu Jiao, King Huai, succeeded to the throne and died in six years.
His son Liu Yong succeeded to the throne, and by the time of Wang Mang, the feudal state was extinct.
Zan said: The state of Qi under King Hui of Qi is the largest among the vassal states.
Since the founding of the country at the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, the world was peaceful, and the emperor's children were young. They felt ashamed that they were isolated and defeated without the help of the princes, so they made the children of the same surname the princes and kings to control the world.
At that time, the princes could appoint officials at all levels below the imperial censor on their own. The official appointments were the same as those in the Han Dynasty. The Han court only appointed prime ministers for them.
After the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu was suppressed, the power of the princes was weakened. In response to Fu and Xiang's behavior of beautifying the princes and kings and not punishing the princes and kings when they were guilty, laws and regulations such as "Zuoguan Law" and "Law of Fuyi A Party" were formulated.
From then on, the princes could only receive food, clothing, fiefdom tax revenue, and some poor people could only ride ox carts.


