Chunk 0: 
original: 
贾充，字公闾，平阳襄陵人也。
父逵，魏豫州刺史、阳里亭侯。
逵晚始生充，言后当有充闾之庆，故以为名字焉。
充少孤，居丧以孝闻。
袭父爵为侯。
拜尚书郎，典定科令，兼度支考课。
辩章节度，事皆施用。
累迁黄门侍郎、汲郡典农中郎将。
参大将军军事，从景帝讨毌丘俭、文钦于乐嘉。
帝疾笃，还许昌，留充监诸军事，以劳增邑三百五十户。
后为文帝大将军司马，转右长史。
帝新执朝权，恐方镇有异议，使充诣诸葛诞，图欲伐吴，阴察其变。
充既论说时事，因谓诞曰： 天下皆愿禅代，君以为如何？
诞历声曰： 卿非贾豫州子乎，世受魏恩，岂可欲以社稷输人乎！
若洛中有难，吾当死之。
充默然。
及还，白帝曰： 诞在再扬州，威名夙著，能得人死力。
观其规略，为反必也。
今征之，反速而事小；不征，事迟而祸大。
帝乃征诞为司空，而诞果叛。
复从征诞，充进计曰： 楚兵轻而锐，若深沟高垒以逼贼城，可不战而克也。
帝从之。
城陷，帝登垒以劳充。
帝先归洛阳，使充统后事，进爵宣阳乡侯，增邑千户。
迁廷尉，充雅长法理，有平反之称。
转中护军，高贵乡公之攻相府也，充率众距战于南阙。
军将败，骑督成倅弟太子舍人济谓充曰： 今日之事如何？
充曰： 公等养汝，正拟今日，复何疑！
济于是抽戈犯跸。
及常道乡公即位，进封安阳乡侯，增邑千二百户，统城外诸军，加散骑常侍。
钟会谋反于蜀，帝假充节，以本官都督关中、陇右诸军事，西据汉中，未至而会死。
时军国多事，朝廷机密，皆与筹之。
帝甚信重充，与裴秀、王沈、羊祜、荀勖同受腹心之任。
帝又命充定法律。
translation: 
Jia Chong, whose courtesy name was Gonglu, was from Xiangling, Pingyang.
His father, Jia Kui, was the governor of Yuzhou in Wei and the Marquis of Yangliting.
Jia Kui gave birth to Jia Chong in his later years. He said that in the future there would be joyful celebrations filling the streets, so he named Jia Chong and Jia Chong.
Jia Chong lost his father when he was young, and he was famous for his filial piety in mourning.
The Marquis who succeeded his father.
The official paid homage to Shangshu Lang, who presided over the assignment of imperial orders and held examination classes at the same time.
Analyze the rules and regulations of the classics and chapters, and apply them in work.
After his meritorious service, he was moved to serve as Huangmen Shilang and Jijun Diannong Zhonglang.
He participated in the general's military affairs and followed Emperor Jing in the campaign against his mothers Qiu Jian and Wen Qin in Lejia.
The emperor was seriously ill and returned to Xuchang, leaving Jia Chong to supervise the military affairs. Because of his meritorious service, 350 additional households were granted fiefs.
Later he was appointed Sima, the general of Emperor Wen, and was transferred to You Changshi.
Emperor Wen had just taken over the power of the imperial court. He was afraid that there would be objections from the border towns in the four directions, so he sent his aides to Zhuge Dan to discuss preparations for the attack on Wu and secretly observe the changes.
After Jia Chonglun talked about the current situation, he took advantage of the situation and said to Zhuge Xi: "Everyone in the world hopes to take over the throne. What do you think?"
Zhuge Dan said sternly: "Aren't you the son of Jia Yuzhou? You have been favored by Wei for generations, how can you want to hand over the country to others!"
If there is trouble in Luoyang City, I will die for Wei.
Maichong remained silent.
When he returned to Beijing, he told Emperor Wen: "Zhuge Dan has been stationed in Yangzhou twice. His majesty and reputation have always been outstanding, and he can win the desperate service of others."
Observing his planning and strategy, it is certain to rebel.
If he is drafted, it will prompt him to rebel with little harm; if he is not drafted, the rebellion will be delayed but the harm will be great.
Emperor Wen then recruited Zhuge Dan to serve as Sikong, but Zhuge Dan rebelled.
Maichong followed Zhuge Dan in the expedition and offered a plan: Chu soldiers are lightly armed but sharp. If they dig deep ditches and build high forts to approach the rebel city, they can win without a fight.
Emperor Wen obeyed him.
After conquering the city, Emperor Wen ascended the fortress to comfort Jia Chong.
Emperor Wen first returned to Luoyang and sent Jia Chong to take charge of the funeral affairs. He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Xuanyang Township, and a thousand households were added to the fiefdom.
After being moved to the post of Tingwei, Jia Chong was very good at jurisprudence and had a reputation for correcting wrong cases.
After he was transferred to the Central Guards Army, when Gaogui Xianggong attacked the Prime Minister's Mansion, Jia Chong led the people to fight at Nanque.
The army was about to be defeated. Prince Sheren Chengji, the younger brother of Cavalry Governor Cheng Chou, said to Maichong: What should we do today?
Maichong said: I have raised you people just for today, so what is there to worry about?
Cheng Ji then drew his gun and attacked Gao Gui's carriage.
When the Duke of Changdao came to the throne, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang Township. He was granted an additional 1,200 households, commanded the armies outside the city, and was appointed as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
Zhong Hui rebelled in Shu. Emperor Wen ordered Jia Chongzhijie to supervise the military affairs of Guanzhong and Longyou as his own officer, and moved westward to occupy Hanzhong. Zhong Hui died before he could reach him.
At that time, the army and the country were troubled, and Jia Chong was involved in the planning of the court's secrets.
Emperor Wen trusted and valued Jia Chong very much, and together with Pei Xiu, Wang Chen, Yang Ku, and Xun Xu, he accepted the important tasks of his confidants.
Emperor Wen also ordered Jia Chong to revise the law.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
假金章，赐甲第一区。
五等初建，封临沂侯，为晋元勋，深见宠异，禄赐常优于群官。
充有刀笔才，能观察上旨。
初，文帝以景帝恢赞王业，方传位于舞阳侯攸。
充称武帝宽仁，且又居长，有人君之德，宜奉社稷。
及文帝寝疾，武帝请问后事。
文帝曰： 知汝者贾公闾也。
帝袭王位，拜充晋国卫将军、仪同三司、给事中，改封临颍侯。
及受禅，充以建明大命，转车骑将军、散骑常侍、尚书仆射，更封鲁郡公，母柳氏为鲁国太夫人。
充所定新律既班于天下，百姓便之。
诏曰： 汉氏以来，法令严峻。
故自元成之世，及建安、嘉平之间，咸欲辩章旧典，删革刑书。
述作体大，历年无成。
先帝愍元元之命陷于密网，亲发德音，厘正名实。
车骑将军贾充，奖明圣意，谘询善道。
太傅郑冲，又与司空荀顗、中书监荀勖、中军将军羊祜、中护军王业，及廷尉杜友、守河南尹杜预、散骑侍郎裴楷、颍川太守周雄、齐相郭颀、骑都尉成公绥荀煇、尚书郎柳轨等，典正其事。
朕每鉴其用心，常慨然嘉之。
今法律既成，始班天下，刑宽禁简，足以克当先旨。
昔萧何以定律受封，叔孙通以制仪为奉常，赐金五百斤，弟子皆为郎。
夫立功立事，古之所重。
自太傅、车骑以下，皆加禄赏。其详依故典。
于是赐充子弟一人关内侯，绢五百匹。
固让，不许。
后代裴秀为尚书令，常侍、车骑将军如故。
寻改常侍为侍中，赐绢七百匹。
以母忧去职，诏遣黄门侍郎慰问。
又以东南有事，遣典军将军杨嚣宣谕，使六旬还内。
translation: 
Use the gold medal to get the first high-class house.
The fifth-class title was just established and he was named Marquis of Linyi. As a person with great meritorious service in the Jin Dynasty, he was deeply favored and treated with special treatment. His salary and rewards were often better than those of other officials.
Jia Chong had the talent of writing and writing, and could observe the will from above.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen used Emperor Jing Hongda to assist the king and was about to pass the throne to Wuyang Hou Sima You.
Maichong praised Emperor Wu for being generous and kind, and as the eldest son, he had the virtues to be a king and should inherit the throne.
When Emperor Wen was ill and lying in bed, Emperor Wu asked about his funeral.
Emperor Wen said: It is Jia Gonglu who understands you.
Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne and worshiped Jia Chong as General of the Guards of the Jin Dynasty, the Third Division of Yitong, and the title of Marquis of Linying.
After accepting the transfer, Jia Chong was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry, Regular Attendant of Disciplined Cavalry, and Minister of Public Affairs because of his participation in establishing the destiny of a prosperous country.
After the promulgation of the new law on buying and selling, people felt convenient.
The edict said: Since the Han Dynasty, the laws have been strict.
Therefore, from the time of Emperor Moyuan and Emperor Cheng of Han Dynasty to Jian'an and Jiaping, everyone wanted to analyze the old laws and regulations, delete and reform the criminal law.
Due to the grand scale of the work, it took many years without success.
The late emperor took pity on the kind-hearted people trapped in the fine legal net, and personally spoke out the voice of benevolence and corrected the name and reality.
The generals of chariots and cavalry buy and charge, assist in spreading the holy will, and consult the good way.
Taifu Zheng Chong, together with Sikong Xunhao, Zhongshu Supervisor Xunxu, Central Army General Yang Ku, Central Guardsman Wang Ye, Tingwei Du You, Henan Guard Yin Duyu, Sanqi Minister Pei Kai, Ying! Prefect Zhou Xiong, Qi Prime Minister Guo Qi, Cavalry Commander Chenggong Sui Xunhui, Shangshu Lang Liugui, etc. presided over this matter.
Every time I see their hard work, I always praise them with emotion.
Now that the law has been completed and has begun to be promulgated throughout the world, the penalties are relaxed and the prohibitions are simplified, which is enough to comply with the original decree.
In the past, Xiao He was granted a title for revising laws, and Shusun Tong was appointed as a regular official for formulating etiquette. He was given five hundred catties of gold, and his disciples were all Langguan.
Establishing meritorious deeds and completing careers was valued in ancient times.
Taifu Bai, Chaqiu and below are all rewarded with salary and salary, and the detailed procedures are in accordance with the old regulations.
So one of Jia Chong's children was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and five hundred pieces of silk.
Jia Chong firmly refused, but the emperor refused.
Later, he replaced Pei Xiu as Shangshu Ling, and his positions as regular attendant and general of chariots and cavalry remained.
Soon he was changed from regular servant to servant, and was given 700 pieces of silk.
He left his job due to his mother's death, and Shaoshu sent Huangmen Shilang to express his condolences.
Because there was something going on in the southeast, he sent General Yang Xiao of the Dian Army to read out the decree and asked Maichong to return to the court after sixty days.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
充为政，务农节用，并官省职，帝善之，又以文武异容，求罢所领兵。
及羊祜等出镇，充复上表欲立勋边境，帝并不许。
从容任职，褒贬在已，颇好进士，每有所荐达，必终始经纬之，是以士多归焉。
帝舅王恂尝毁充，而充更进恂。
或有背充以要权贵者，充皆阳以素意待之。
而充无公方之操，不能正身率下，专以谄媚取容。
侍中任恺、中书令庾纯等刚直守正，咸共疾之。
又以充女为齐王妃，惧后益盛。
及氐羌反叛，时帝深以为虑，恺因进说，请充镇关中。
乃下诏曰： 秦凉二境，比年屡败，胡虏纵暴，百姓荼毒。
遂使异类扇动，害及中州。
虽复吴蜀之寇，未尝至此。
诚由所任不足以内抚夷夏，外镇丑逆，轻用其众而不能尽其力。
非得腹心之重，推毂委成，大匡其弊，恐为患未已。
每虑斯难，忘寝与食。
侍中、守尚书令、车骑将军贾充，雅量弘高，达见明远，武有折冲之威，文怀经国之虑，信结人心，名震域外。
使权统方任，绥静西夏，则吾无西顾之念，而远近获安矣。
其以充为使持节、都督秦凉二州诸军事，侍中、车骑将军如故，假羽葆、鼓吹，给第一驸马。
朝之贤良欲进忠规献替者，皆幸充此举，望隆惟新之化。
充既外出，自以为失职，深衔任恺，计无所从。
将之镇，百僚饯于夕阳亭，荀勖私焉。
充以忧告，勖曰： 公，国之宰辅，而为一夫所制，不亦鄙乎！
然是行也，辞之实难，独有结婚太子，不顿驾而自留矣。
充曰： 然。
translation: 
He was fully in power, devoted himself to saving money in agriculture, merged officials and reduced provincial positions, and the emperor praised him. And because civil and military forces have their own specialties, he requested that the soldiers under his command be dismissed.
When Yang Hu and others went out to guard the area, the imperial seal office came forward to perform meritorious service on the border, but the emperor did not agree.
He takes office calmly, praises and blames himself, and likes to recommend talents. Whenever he is recommended, he will make arrangements from beginning to end, so many scholars attach themselves to him.
The emperor's uncle Wang Xun had slandered Jia Chong, and Zhi Li promoted him to Wang Gu.
Sometimes there are people who play tricks on powerful people behind Maili's back, but Jia Chong treats them with sincerity on the surface.
However, Jia Chong did not have integrity and impartiality, could not correct himself and set an example for his subordinates, and relied exclusively on flattery to please others.
Ren Kai, the servant, Yu Chun, the secretary, and others were upright and upright, and they all hated him.
And because Ma Chong's daughter became Princess Qi, she may become even more powerful in the future.
When the Di and Qiang rebelled, the emperor was very worried about this, so he made a request to send Maichong to guard Guanzhong.
So he issued an edict saying: The two borders of Qin and Liang have suffered repeated defeats in successive years. The barbarians indulged in atrocities and the people suffered.
As a result, foreigners were encouraged and disasters spread to the Central Plains.
Even the invasion by Wu and Shu did not reach this extent.
It is really because the officials in office are not enough to appease the Yixia internally and suppress the rebellion externally. They use troops rashly and cannot fully exert their strength.
If we don't appoint our trusted ministers, entrust them with important responsibilities to achieve success, and completely correct the original shortcomings, I'm afraid there will be no end to the disaster.
Whenever I think of the disaster at the border, I forget to eat or sleep.
He is a servant, a guardian of the ministerial order, a general of chariots and cavalry. He has extraordinary magnanimity and far-reaching knowledge. His martial arts have the majesty of repelling the enemy. His literature has the wisdom to govern the country. His integrity can unite people's hearts. His reputation is powerful abroad.
Assign him to shoulder the important task of commanding one side and stabilizing Xixia. Then I will not have to worry about the worries of the west, and everyone near and far will be safe.
Jia Chong was appointed as envoy Chijie and commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Qin and Liang. His positions as servant and general of chariots and cavalry remained unchanged, and he was given Yu Bao, Guang Zhang, and the first prince consort.
The virtuous people in the court who wanted to be loyal, admonishing, and speaking out were all grateful for Jia Chong's transfer and looked forward to the great enlightenment.
Since Jia Chong was sent out to serve, he felt that he had neglected his duties. He deeply resented Ren Kai and had nothing to do.
When he was about to go to the border town, hundreds of officials bid farewell to him at the Sunset Pavilion, and Xun Xu had a private conversation with him.
Jia Chong told him his worries, and Xun Xu said: "My lord, he is the prime minister of the country, but he is restrained by one person. Isn't it too contemptuous of others!"
However, this time out, it was too difficult to say no. As long as you marry the prince, you can stay without any trouble.
Jia Chong said: That's right.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
孰可寄怀？
对曰： 勖请行之。
俄而侍宴，论太子婚姻事，勖因言充女才质令淑，宜配储宫。
而杨皇后及荀顗亦并称之。
帝纳其言。
会京师大雪，平地二尺，军不得发。
既而皇储当婚，遂不西行。
诏充居本职。
先是羊祜密启留充，及是，帝以语充。
充谢祜曰： 始知君长者。
时吴将孙秀降，拜为骠骑大将军。
帝以充旧臣。欲改班，使车骑居骠骑之右。
充固让，见听。
寻迁司空，侍中、尚书令、领兵如故。
会帝寝疾，充及齐王攸、荀勖参医药。
及疾愈，赐绢各五百匹。
初，帝疾笃，朝廷属意于攸。
河南尹夏侯和谓充曰： 卿二女婿，亲疏等耳，立人当立德。
充不答。
及是，帝闻之，徙和光禄勋，乃夺充兵权，而位遇无替。
寻转太尉、行太子太保、录尚书事。
咸宁三年，日蚀于三朝，充请逊位，不许。
更以沛国之公丘益其封，宠幸愈甚，朝臣咸侧目焉。
河南尹王恂上言： 弘训太后入庙，合食于景皇帝，齐王攸不得行其子礼。
充议以为： 礼，诸侯不得祖天子，公子不得祢先君，皆谓奉统承祀，非谓不得复其父祖也。
攸身宜服三年丧事，自如臣制。
有司奏： 若如充议，服子服，行臣制，未有前比。
宜如恂表，攸丧服从诸侯之例。
帝从充议。
translation: 
Who can I place my heart on?
Xun Xu replied: Please let me talk about this.
Soon Xun Xu was serving a banquet and discussing the prince's marriage. Xun Xu took the opportunity to say that Jia Chong's daughter was talented and beautiful and should be married in the crown prince's palace.
Queen Yang and Xun Zhuan also agreed.
The emperor adopted Xun Xu's opinion.
It happened that it snowed heavily in the capital, and the snow was two feet deep on the ground, so the army could not set off.
It was time for the crown prince to get married soon, so he stopped going to the west.
An edict was issued to order Jia Chongguan to take up his post.
In the past, Yang Hu made a secret report and left Jia Chong behind. At this time, the emperor told Mai Chong.
Jia Chong thanked Yanghu and said: Only now do I know that you are an elder.
At that time, Sun Xiu, the general of the State of Wu, surrendered and became a hussar general.
Because Maichong was an old minister, the emperor wanted to change the court schedule so that the position of the charioteer would be above that of the hussar.
Jia Chong firmly refused and was obeyed by the emperor.
Soon he was moved to the post of Sikong, and he remained the minister, minister, and leader of the army.
When the emperor was ill in bed, Jia Chong and Qi kings Sima You and Xun Xu participated in the medicine.
When they recover, each person will be given five hundred bolts of silk.
At first, the emperor was seriously ill and the court turned its attention to Sima You.
Marquis Yin Xia of Henan said to Jia Chong: Your two sons-in-law are equally close, and they should be virtuous.
Jia Chong didn't answer.
When the emperor recovered from his illness, he heard about this and transferred Xiahou and Ren Guangluxun to deprive Jia Chong of his military power, but his official status and treatment did not change.
Soon he was transferred to the post of Taiwei, acting as the Taibao of the Crown Prince, and recording the affairs of the Shangshu.
In the third year of Xianning, there was an eclipse on New Year's Day. Jia Chong asked to give up his throne, but was not allowed.
In addition, he used Gongqiu of Pei State to expand Jia Chong's fiefdom, which made him even more favored. The ministers in the court were jealous of him.
Xun Jin, King of Yin in Henan, said: The tablet of Empress Dowager Hongxun entered the ancestral temple, worthy of Emperor Jing, and King Sima You of Qi could not perform the etiquette of a son.
Jia Chong argued that: According to etiquette, princes cannot sacrifice the emperor according to the etiquette for their ancestors, and the prince cannot worship the ancestors according to the etiquette for his father. They all say that they are flattering the emperor and worshiping their ancestors, but they do not mean that the relationship between father and ancestor cannot be restored.
Sima You should serve in mourning for three years, naturally in accordance with the etiquette of being a minister.
Relevant officials reported: If Jia Chong's discussion is followed, the etiquette of wearing one's son's mourning clothes and acting as a minister did not exist before.
Wang Xun's appearance should be followed, and Sima You's mourning clothes should be in accordance with the customs of the princes.
The emperor complied with Mai Chong's proposal.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
伐吴之役，诏充为使持节、假黄钺、大都督，总统六师，给羽葆、鼓吹、缇幢、兵万人、骑二千，置左右长史、司马、从事中郎，增参军、骑司马各十人，帐下司马二十人，大车、官骑各三十人。
充虑大功不捷，表陈 西有昆夷之患，北有幽并之戍，天下劳扰，年谷不登，兴军致讨，惧非其时。
又臣老迈，非所克堪。 诏曰： 君不行，吾便自出。
充不得已，乃受节钺，将中军，为诸军节度，以冠军将军杨济为副，南屯襄阳。
吴江陵诸守皆降，充乃徙屯项。
王浚之克武昌也，充遣使表曰： 吴未可悉定，方夏，江淮下湿，疾疫必起，宜召诸军，以为后图。
虽腰斩张华，不足以谢天下。
华豫平吴之策，故充以为言。
中书监荀勖奏，宜如充表。
帝不从。
杜预闻充有奏，驰表固争，言平在旦夕。
使及至轘辕，而孙皓已降。
吴平，军罢。
帝遣侍中程咸犒劳，赐充帛八千匹，增邑八千户；分封从孙暢新城亭侯，盖安阳亭侯；弟阳里亭侯混、从孙关内侯众增户邑。
充本无南伐之谋，固谏不见用。
及师出而吴平，大惭惧，议欲请罪。
帝闻充当诣阙，豫幸东堂以待之。
罢节钺、僚佐，仍假鼓吹、麾幢。
充与群臣上告成之礼，请有司具其事。
帝谦让不许。
及疾笃，上印绶逊位。
帝遣侍臣谕旨问疾，殿中太医致汤药，赐床帐钱帛，自皇太子宗室躬省起居。
太康三年四月薨，时年六十六。
帝为之恸，使使持节、太常奉策追赠太宰，加衮冕之服、绿綟绶、御剑，赐东园秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭，大鸿胪护丧事，假节钺、前后部羽葆、鼓吹、缇麾，大路、銮路、辒辌车、帐下司马大车，椎斧文衣武贲、轻车介士。
translation: 
In the campaign of conquering Wu, the imperial edict appointed Mai Chong as envoy Chijie, fake Huangtie, Dadu Governor, and President of the Sixth Army. He gave Yu Bao, Gu Chuang, Ti Zhuang, 10,000 soldiers, and 2,000 cavalry. He appointed the left and right chiefs, Sima, and Zhonglang, and added ten more soldiers and cavalry Sima, twenty Sima under the account, and thirty people each for carts and official cavalry.
Jia Chong was worried that he would not be able to achieve great achievements. He stated in the table above: There are disasters from Kunyi in the west and wars in the north. The world is in trouble and chaos, and the food harvest is not good. I am afraid it is not the right time to launch an army to attack.
Besides, I am too old to bear this important responsibility. The edict said: If you don't go, I will go myself.
Jia Chong had no choice but to accept Jitie, commanded the central army, and controlled and dispatched the armies. With the champion general Yang Ji as his deputy, he went south to station in Xiangyang.
Several prefects in Jiangling of Wu State surrendered, so Jia Chong changed his camp to Xiang.
When Wang Jun conquered Wuchang, Maichong sent an envoy to say: The Kingdom of Wu cannot be completely pacified. It is summer now, the Jianghuai River is low and humid, and diseases and plagues are bound to be prevalent. The troops should be recalled to prepare for the future attack on Wu.
Even if Zhang Hua was cut in half, it would not be enough to apologize to the world.
Zhang Hua participated in the plan to pacify the state of Wu, so he said so.
Xun Xu, the Superintendent of the Zhongshu, reported that things should be done according to Jia Chong's rules.
The emperor didn't listen.
When Du Yu heard about Jia Chong's memorial, he hurriedly went to court to argue that Wu would be pacified in the next two days.
When the envoy arrived at Xianyuan, Sun Hao had already surrendered.
The state of Wu was pacified and the troops were withdrawn.
The emperor sent his attendant Cheng Xian to reward him with 8,000 bolts of silk and 8,000 additional households in the fiefdom; his nephew Jia Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Xincheng Ting, Jia Gai was the Marquis of Anyang Ting; his younger brother Jia Hun, the Marquis of Yangli Ting, and his grandnephew Guannei Marquis Maizhong were granted additional fiefs.
Jia Chong originally had no strategy for the southern expedition, so he tried his best to persuade him but was not adopted.
When the army went out to conquer Wu, he was very ashamed and frightened, and decided to plead guilty.
When the emperor heard that Jia Chong was going to the palace, he went to Shutang to wait for him.
Without his cymbals and assistants, he still pretends to be an advocate and a leader.
Maichong and the officials presented a gift to report the success and asked the relevant officials to prepare for the matter.
The emperor was too humble to allow it.
When he was seriously ill, he handed over his seal and ribbon to give up his throne.
The emperor sent his ministers to inquire about the patient's condition, and the imperial doctor in the palace sent decoctions and medicines, as well as money and silk for bed tents. Members of the royal family, including the crown prince, went to greet him in person.
He died in April of the third year of Taikang at the age of sixty-six.
The emperor grieved for him and sent envoys Chijie and Taichang to posthumously make him Dazai. He was also given the crown's attire, a green ribbon, a sword, a coffin, a set of court clothes, and a set of clothes.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
葬礼依霍光及安平献王故事，给茔田一顷。
与石苞等为王功配飨庙庭，谥曰武。
追赠充子黎民为鲁殇公。
充妇广城君郭槐，性妒忌。
初，黎民年三岁，乳母抱之当阁。
黎民见充入，喜笑，充就而拊之。
槐望见，谓充私乳母，即鞭杀之。
黎民恋念，发病而死。
后又生男，过期，复为乳母所抱，充以手摩其头。
郭疑乳母，又杀之，兒亦思慕而死。
充遂无胤嗣。
及薨，槐辄以外孙韩谧为黎民子，奉充后。
郎中令韩咸、中尉曹轸谏槐曰： 礼，大宗无后，以小宗支子后之，无异姓为后之文。
无令先公怀腆后土，良史书过，岂不痛心。
槐不从。
咸等上书求改立嗣，事寝不报。
槐遂表陈是充遗意。
帝乃诏曰： 太宰、鲁公充，崇德立勋，勤劳佐命，背世殂陨，每用悼心。
又胤子早终，世嗣未立。
古者列国无嗣，取始封支庶，以绍其统，而近代更除其国。
至于周之公旦，汉之萧何，或豫建元子，或封爵元妃，盖尊显勋庸，不同常例。
太宰素取外孙韩谧为世子黎民后。
吾退而断之，外孙骨肉至近，推恩计情，合于人心。
其以谧为鲁公世孙，以嗣其国。
自非功如太宰，始封无后如太宰，所取必以己自出不如太宰，皆不得以为比。
及下礼官议充谥，博士秦秀议谥曰荒，帝不纳。
博士段暢希旨，建议谥曰武，帝乃从之。
自充薨至葬，赙赐二千万。
惠帝即位，贾后擅权，加充庙备六佾之乐，母郭为宜城君。
及郭氏亡，谥曰宣，特加殊礼。
translation: 
The funeral followed the precedents of Huo Guang and Anping King Xian, and an area of ​​​​area was given to the cemetery.
He, Shi Bao and others were enshrined in the royal ancestral temple for their meritorious service in assisting the emperor. Their nickname was Wu.
He gave a posthumous gift to Maichong's son Li Min, who was named Duke Shang of Lu.
Jia Chong's wife, Guo Huai, the king of Guangcheng, was jealous by nature.
Back then, when Li Min was three years old, his wet nurse was holding him in front of the door.
When Li Min saw Maichong coming in, he smiled happily, and Jia Chong went over to caress him.
Guo Huai saw it and said that the wet nurse who bought Chongyu was having an affair, so he whipped the wet nurse to death.
The people missed their wet nurse and she fell ill and died.
Later, Guo Huai gave birth to another boy. When he was over one year old, he was held by the wet nurse again, and she touched the child's head with her hands.
Guo suspected the wet nurse and killed her again. Her son also died because he missed her.
Maichong therefore had no descendants.
After Jia Chong's death, Guo Huai made his grandson Han Mi the son of a commoner and continued to buy and charge.
The doctor ordered Han Xian and the lieutenant Cao Zhen to advise Guo Sou: According to the etiquette system, the authentic sect has no descendants, and the sons of the branches of the side sects are used as descendants. There is no provision for allowing descendants with different surnames.
Don't let the virtues of our late grandfather go underground, but let good historians record his faults. Wouldn't it be sad?
Guo Huai refused to obey.
Han Xian and others wrote a letter requesting a new heir, but the matter was suppressed and not reported.
Qianlu then stated in the table that it was Yishi's last wish to erect a fallen chariot.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: Dazai and Lu Gong Jia Chong, who upheld great virtues and established meritorious deeds, worked diligently to assist the destiny, passed away, and I always mourn them.
Besides, the heir died early and the descendants have not yet been established.
In ancient times, countries had no heirs and were succeeded by the branch of the person who initiated the title. However, in modern times, the feudal country was abolished.
As for Gong Dan in the Zhou Dynasty and Xiao He in the Han Dynasty, they either predetermined the eldest son or conferred a title on the Yuan concubine, which was a sign of respect for their merits, which was different from the norm.
Dazai always chose his grandson Han Mi as the descendant of his eldest son Li Min.
I have been thinking about it privately. My grandson is very close to me by flesh and blood, and it is in line with people's hearts to think about kindness.
Let Han Mi be the grandson of Lu Gong and inherit his feudal kingdom.
If the meritorious service is not the same as that of Dazai, and Shifeng has no descendants who are the same as Dazai, the descendants he chooses must be chosen by his own will, and may not be as good as Dazai. This example cannot be compared.
When the ceremonial officials agreed on Jia Chong's chanting, Dr. Qin Xiu suggested that Jia Chong be called Huang, but the emperor did not accept it.
Dr. Duan Chang catered to the emperor's wishes and suggested that Mi Haowao should be called Wu, and the emperor agreed.
From the time of Jia Chong's death to his burial, the funeral reward amounted to 20 million.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne, bought the throne and took exclusive power. He also gave Jia Chong the ancestral temple to have a band of six hundred people, and his mother Guo was the king of Yicheng.
After Guo's death, Mi's name was changed to Xuan, and special etiquette was specially added.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时人讥之，而莫敢言者。
初，充前妻李氏淑美有才行，生二女褒、裕，褒一名荃，裕一名浚。
父丰诛，李氏坐流徙。
后娶城阳太守郭配女，即广城君也。
武帝践阼，李以大赦得还，帝特诏充置左右夫人，充母亦敕充迎李氏。
郭槐怒，攘袂数充曰： 刊定律令，为佐命之功，我有其分。
李那得与我并！
充乃答诏，托以谦冲，不敢当两夫人盛礼，实畏槐也。
而荃为齐王攸妃，欲令充遣郭而还其母。
时沛国刘含母，及帝舅羽林监王虔前妻，皆毌丘俭孙女。
此例既多，质之礼官，俱不能决。
虽不遣后妻，多异居私通。
充自以宰相为海内准则，乃为李筑室于永年里而不往来。
荃、浚每号泣请充，充竟不往。
会充当镇关右，公卿供帐祖道，荃、浚惧充遂去，乃排幔出于坐中，叩头流血，向充及群僚陈母应还之意。
众以荃王妃，皆惊起而散。
充甚愧愕，遣黄门将宫人扶去。
既而郭槐女为皇太子妃，帝乃下诏断如李比皆不得还，后荃恚愤而薨。
初，槐欲省李氏，充曰： 彼有才气，卿往不如不往。
及女为妃，槐乃盛威仪而去。
既入户，李氏出迎，槐不觉脚屈，因遂再拜。
自是充每出行，槐辄使人寻之，恐其过李也。
初，充母柳见古今重节义，竟不知充与成济事，以济不忠，数追骂之。
侍者闻之，无不窃笑。
及将亡，充问所欲言，柳曰： 我教汝迎李新妇尚不肯，安问他事！
遂无言。
及充薨后，李氏二女乃欲令其母祔葬，贾后弗之许也。
及后废，李氏乃得合葬。
李氏作《女训》行于世。
translation: 
At that time, people ridiculed this matter, but no one dared to speak out.
At the beginning, Jia Chong's ex-wife Li Shi was virtuous, beautiful and of good character. She gave birth to two daughters, Jia Bao and Maiyu. Maibao was also named Quan and Yu was also named Jun.
Li's father Li Feng was executed, and Li was convicted and exiled.
Jia Chong later married the daughter of Guo Pei, the prefect of Chengyang, who was also the Lord of Guangcheng.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, and Li was able to return due to the amnesty. The emperor specially asked Maichong to appoint his left and right wives, and Maichong's mother also asked Gentong to welcome Kuidan back.
He was angry, rolled up his sleeves and laid his hands on Jia Chong, saying: "I have a share in amending the laws and regulations and completing the mission of assisting the destiny."
How can Mr. Li be compared with me?
Jia Chong then responded to the edict and used humility as an excuse, saying that he did not dare to enjoy the lavish gifts of the two ladies, but he was actually afraid of the Guo family.
And Maiquan became the concubine of Qi King Sima You, and wanted Maichong to send away the Guo family and welcome her mother back.
At that time, the mother of Liu Han of Pei State and the ex-wife of Wang Lu, the emperor's uncle, Yulin Supervisor, were both the granddaughters of Danqiu Jun.
There are so many cases like this that even if you ask the etiquette officer, you can't make a decision.
Although the step-wives are not sent away, they usually live in separate places and communicate with each other privately.
Jia Chong believed that the prime minister was the standard of conduct for the world, so he built a house for Li family in Yongnian and did not have any contact with him.
Maiquan and Maijun often cried and begged Jia Chong, but Gencha refused to go.
It happened that Jia Zhi was going to guard Heyou, and Gongqing set up a tent to worship the road god. Jia Quan and Maijun were afraid that Maichong would leave immediately, so they moved out of the tent and came to the seat, kowtowed and shed blood, and explained to Maichong and all the officials why their mother should go home.
Because Maiquan was the princess, everyone got up and ran away.
Maichong was very ashamed and shocked, and sent Huang Men to help her away.
Later, his daughter became the crown princess, and the emperor issued an edict that no one in Li's situation could return home. Later, Jia Quan died in anger.
At first, Guo Huai wanted to visit Mrs. Li, but Maichong said: "She is talented. It is better not to go."
After his daughter became a concubine, Guo Huaiqian traveled with dignity and grandeur.
After entering the door, Mr. Li came out to greet him. Guo Huai's legs became weak unconsciously, so he bowed twice.
From then on, whenever he went out for money, Guo Huai sent people to look for him, fearing that he would visit Li.
At first, Jia Chong's mother Liu saw that integrity and loyalty were valued in ancient and modern times, but she didn't know about Jia Chong and Cheng Ji. She thought Cheng Ji was unfaithful and chased and scolded him many times.
When the waiters heard this, they all laughed secretly.
When she was about to die, Maichong asked her what else she wanted to say, and Chi said: I asked you to go and greet Kui Guibian, but you still refuse, and you ask about other things!
So he didn't speak.
After Jia Chong died, Li's two daughters wanted their mother to be buried, but they refused after buying it.
After they were bought and deposed, the Li family could be buried together.
Li's "Women's Training" became popular in the world.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
谧字长深。
母贾午，充少女也。
父韩寿，字德真，南阳堵阳人，魏司徒暨曾孙。
美姿貌，善容止，贾充辟为司空掾。
充每宴宾僚，其女辄于青钅巢中窥之，见寿而悦焉。
问其左右识此人不，有一婢说寿姓字，云是故主人。
女大感想，发于寤寐。
婢后往寿家，具说女意，并言其女光丽艳逸，端美绝伦。
寿闻而心动，便令为通殷勤。
婢以白女，女遂潜修音好，厚相赠结，呼寿夕入。
寿劲捷过人，逾垣而至，家中莫知，惟充觉其女悦暢异于常日。
时西域有贡奇香，一著人则经月不歇，帝甚贵之，惟以赐充及大司马陈骞。
其女密盗以遗寿，充僚属与寿燕处，闻其芬馥，称之于充。
自是充意知女与寿通，而其门阁严峻，不知所由得入。
乃夜中阳惊，托言有盗，因使循墙以观其变。
左右白曰： 无余异，惟东北角如狐狸行处。
充乃考问女之左右，具以状对。
充秘之，遂以女妻寿。
寿官至散骑常侍、河南尹。
元康初卒，赠骠骑将军。
谧好学，有才思。
既为充嗣，继佐命之后，又贾后专恣，谧权过人主，至乃锁系黄门侍郎，其为威福如此。
负其骄宠，奢侈逾度，室宇崇僭，器服珍丽，歌僮舞女，选极一时。
开阁延宾。海内辐凑，贵游豪戚及浮竞之徙，莫不尽礼事之。
或著文章称美谧，以方贾谊。
渤海石崇欧阳建、荥阳潘岳、吴国陆机陆云、兰陵缪征、京兆杜斌挚虞、琅邪诸葛诠、弘农王粹、襄城杜育、南阳邹捷、齐国左思、清河崔基、沛国刘瑰、汝南和郁周恢、安平牵秀、颍川陈、太原郭彰、高阳许猛、彭城刘讷、中山刘舆刘琨皆傅会于谧，号曰二十四友，其余不得预焉。
translation: 
The character Jia Mi is long and deep.
My mother, Mai Wu, is Jia Chong’s youngest daughter.
His father, Han Shou, whose courtesy name was Dezhen, was a native of Duyang, Nanyang, and the great-grandson of Wei Situ Han Ji.
With good looks and good manners, he was appointed as Sikong Tu.
Whenever Jia Chong entertained guests and staff, his youngest daughter would peek at the palace gate and fall in love with Han Shou when she saw him.
She asked her attendants whether they knew this person, and one of the maids told Han Shou's surname and given name, saying that he was the previous master.
My daughter was very homesick and restless day and night.
The maid went to Han Shou's house and expressed her intention to buy Wu. She also said that this woman was extremely beautiful and dignified.
Han Shou was moved when he heard about it, so he asked his maid to convey his hospitality to him.
The maid passed the message to Jia Wu, who then secretly promised her her life, generous gifts and befriended her, and asked Zuo Hua to go to her residence at night.
Due to his extraordinary strength and agility, he climbed over the wall and entered. No one in the family knew about it. Only Jia Chong noticed that his little daughter was happy and happy, which was different from usual.
At that time, someone from the Western Regions paid tribute to a strange incense. Once it touched the human body, the fragrance did not fade away after the moon passed. The emperor regarded the incense as very precious and only gave it to Maichong and Grand Sima Chen Qian.
Mai Wu secretly stole it and gave it to Han Shou. Mai Chong's staff had a banquet with Han Shou. They smelled the fragrance and went to Mai Chong to praise it.
From this, Jia Chong knew in his heart that his daughter was having an affair with Han Shou. However, his family's door was tight and he didn't know where the scriptures and paintings could get in.
So he pretended to be frightened at night and took advantage of the day to see a thief, so he sent people to patrol the courtyard wall to observe changes.
The people on the left and right reported: There is nothing unusual except that there seems to be a fox walking around in the northeast corner.
Jia Chong then tortured his youngest daughter's servants, and they all told the truth.
Jia Chong concealed the matter and married his youngest daughter to Han Shou.
Han Shouguan became the regular attendant of Sanqi and Henan Yin.
When Yuan Kang died in the early years of his life, he was given posthumously to General Hussar.
Mi is eager to learn and has talented ideas.
Not only was he a descendant of Jia Chong, he inherited the lineage of important ministers, but he also had the exclusive pampering and indulgence of Empress Jia. Jia Mi's power exceeded that of the king, so much so that he imprisoned Huangmen Shilang, and this was how he dominated.
Due to pride and favor, excessive luxury was achieved. The houses were taller than etiquette, the utensils and clothes were precious and gorgeous, and the singers and dancers all chose the best at that time.
When he opened the door to entertain guests, people from all over the world gathered, including distinguished tourists, relatives of wealthy families, and people who pursued fame and fortune, all of whom did not serve him with the utmost courtesy.
Someone wrote an article praising Jia Mi and comparing him to Mai Yi.
Bohai Shi Chong Ouyang Jian, Rongyang Pan Yue, Wu Guo Luji Lu Yun, Lanling Miao Zheng, Jingzhao Du Bin Zhiyu, Langxie Zhuge Quan, Hongnong Wang Cui, Xiangcheng Du Yu, Nanyang Zou Jie, Qi Guo Zuo Si, Qinghe Cui Ji, Pei Guo Liu Quan, Runan, Yu Zhouhui, Anping Qianxiu, Yingchuan Chen Zhen, Taiyuan Guo Zhang, Gaoyang Xu Meng, Pengcheng Liu Na, Zhongshan Liu Yu and Liu Kun all attached to Mai Mi and were known as the Twenty-Four Friends, and others were not allowed to intervene.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
历位散骑常侍、后军将军。
广城君薨，去职。
丧未终。起为秘书监，掌国史。
先是，朝廷议立晋书限断，中书监荀勖谓宜以魏正始起年，著作郎王瓚欲引嘉平已下朝臣尽入晋史，于时依违未有所决。
惠帝立，更使议之。
谧上议，请从泰始为断。
于是事下三府，司徒王戎、司空张华、领军将军王衍、侍中乐广、黄门侍郎嵇绍、国子博士谢衡皆从谧议。
骑都尉济北侯荀畯、侍中荀籓、黄门侍郎华混以为宜用正始开元。
博士荀熙、刁协谓宜嘉平起年。
谧重执奏戎、华之议，事遂施行。
寻转侍中。领秘书监如故。
谧时从帝幸宣武观校猎，讽尚书于会中召谧受拜，诫左右勿使人知，于是众疑其有异志矣。
谧既亲贵，数入二宫，共愍怀太子游处，无屈降心。
常与太子弈棋争道，成都王颖在坐，正色曰： 皇太子国之储君，贾谧何得无礼！
谧惧，言之于后，遂出颖为平北将军，镇鄴。
及为常侍，侍讲东宫，太子意有不悦，谧患之。
而其家数有妖异，飘风吹其朝服飞上数百丈，坠于中丞台，又蛇出其被中，夜暴雷震其室，柱陷入地，压毁床帐，谧益恐。
及迁侍中，专掌禁内，遂与后成谋，诬陷太子。
及赵王伦废后，以诏召谧于殿前，将戮之。
走入西钟下，呼曰： 阿后救我！
乃就斩之。
韩寿少弟蔚有器望，及寿兄巩令保、弟散骑侍郎预、吴王友鉴、谧母贾午皆伏诛。
初，充伐吴时，尝屯项城，军中忽失充所在。
充帐下都督周勤时昼寝，梦见百余人录充，引入一迳。
勤惊觉，闻失充，乃出寻索，忽睹所梦之道。
遂往求之。
果见充行至一府舍，侍卫甚盛。府公南南坐，声色甚历，谓充曰： 将乱吾家事，必尔与荀勖，既惑吾子，又乱吾孙。
translation: 
He has successively served as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the rear army.
Lord Guangcheng died and resigned.
Before the mourning was over, he was appointed secretary-supervisor in charge of national history.
Before this, the imperial court discussed the upper limit for compiling the history of the Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and asked the courtiers to discuss the matter.
Maimi proposed to the emperor that the upper limit should be the year of Taishi.
So the matter was handed over to the three government offices. Situ Wangrong, Sikong Zhanghua, leading general Wang Yan, Shizhong Yueguang, Huangmen Shilang Ji Shao, and Guozi doctor Xie Heng all agreed to buy Mi's memorial.
Xun Zao, the Marquis of Jibei, the Cavalry Commander, Xun Fan, the Minister in the Middle School, and Hua Hun, the Minister in charge of Huangmen, believed that the year of Zhengshi should be used as the starting point.
Doctors Xun Xi and Diao Xie believed that the year should start from Jiaqian.
Mai Mi reiterated Wang Rong and Zhang Hua's discussion, and the matter was implemented.
Soon he was transferred to the position of servant, and he still served as secretary and supervisor.
At that time, Yew Jin followed the emperor to Xuanwu Temple for hunting. He politely advised the minister to summon the buyer to accept the appointment at the gathering, and warned the left and right not to let others know about it, so everyone suspected that Jia Yu had two intentions.
Because of his noble status, Ye Rui entered Shu Palace many times and had fun and got along with Prince Minhuai without any humiliation or respect.
He often played chess and argued with the prince. Chengdu King Sima Ying was present and said seriously: The prince is the crown prince of the country, how can Jia Mi be rude!
Jia Mi was frightened and told the queen about this, so he let Sima Ying go to General Pingbei to guard Ye.
When he became a regular servant, he was giving lectures in Shu Palace. The prince seemed unhappy and Mimi felt worried.
Weird things happened frequently in his house. The wind blew his court clothes hundreds of feet into the sky and fell to the Zhongcheng Terrace. A snake ran into his quilt. A thunderstorm hit his house at night. The pillars sank into the ground and crushed the bed curtains. Jia Mi was even more frightened.
When he was transferred to the position of servant, he was responsible for the internal affairs of the palace, so he conspired with the queen to frame the prince.
When King Zhao Sima Lun deposed the queen, he summoned Mai Mi to the palace with an edict and was about to kill him.
Run to the west bell and shout: Queen, save me!
So he killed him under the clock.
Han Shou's younger brother Han Wei was talented and famous. Together with Han Shou's brother Gong Ling Han Bao, his younger brother Sanqi Shilang Han Yu, Wu Wangyou Han Jian, and Mai Mi's mother Mai Wu were all killed.
When Jia Chong attacked Wu State, he stationed troops in Xiangcheng. Suddenly, the army could not find where Mai Chong was.
Zhou Qin, the governor of Jia Chong's tent, was taking a nap during the day and dreamed that more than a hundred people arrested Jia Chong and led them into a road.
Zhou Qin was frightened and woke up. Hearing that the money was lost, he went out to look for it. Suddenly he saw the road in his dream, so he went to look for it.
Sure enough, I saw Maichong walking to a mansion with many guards.
The owner of the house sat facing south, with a very stern voice and face, and said to Jia Chong: "It must be you and Xun Xu who are going to mess up my family affairs. They will confuse my son and disturb my grandson."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
间使任恺黜汝而不去，又使庾纯詈汝而不改。
今吴寇当平，汝方表斩张华。
汝之暗戆，皆此类也。若不悛慎，当旦夕加罪。
充因叩头流血，公曰： 汝所以延日月而名器如此者，是卫府之勋耳。
终当使系嗣死于钟虡之间，大子毙于金酒之中，小子困于枯木之下。
荀勖亦宜同，然其先德小浓。故在汝后，数世之外，国嗣亦替。
言毕，命去。
充忽然得还营，颜色憔悴，性理昏丧，经日乃复。
及是，谧死于钟下，贾后服金酒而死，贾午考竟用大杖。终皆如所言。
赵王伦之败，朝廷追述充勋，议立其后。
欲以充从孙散骑侍郎众为嗣，众阳狂自免。
以子秃后充，封鲁公，又病死。
永兴中，立充从曾孙湛为鲁公，奉充后，遭乱死，国除。
泰始中，人为充等谣曰： 贾、裴、王，乱纪纲。
王、裴、贾，济天下。
言亡魏而成晋也。
充弟混，字宫奇，笃厚自守，无殊才能。
太康中，为宗正卿。
历镇军将军，领城门校尉，加侍中，封永平侯。
卒，赠中军大将军、仪同三司。
充从子彝、遵并有鉴裁，俱为黄门郎。
遵弟模最知名。
模字思范，少有志尚。
颇览载籍，而沈深有智算，确然难夺。
深为充所信爱，每事筹之焉。
充年衰疾剧，恆忧己谥传，模曰： 是非久自见，不可掩也。
起家为邵陵令，遂历事二宫尚书吏部郎，以公事免，起为车骑司马。
豫诛杨骏，封平阳乡侯，邑千户。
及楚王玮矫诏害汝南王亮、太保卫瓘，诏使模将中驺二百人救之。
是时贾后既豫朝政，欲委信亲党，拜模散骑常侍，二日擢为侍中。
模乃尽心匡弼，推张华、裴顗同心辅政。
数年之中，朝野宁静，模之力也。
乃加授光禄大夫。
然模潜执权势，外形欲远之，每有启奏贾后事，入辄取急，或托疾以避之。
translation: 
During this period, Ren Kai deposed you but you did not leave, and Yu Chun scolded you but you did not repent.
Now that the state of Wu is about to be pacified, you have to go out and kill Zhang Hua again.
Your ignorance is all of this kind. If you do not repent and act prudently, you will be punished sooner or later.
Jia Chong kowtows and bleeds. The owner of the house said: The reason why you can live till now and use such a title is because of your meritorious service in guarding my house.
In the end, your heirs will die among the clocks, your eldest daughter will die from the gin and wine, and your younger daughter will be trapped under the dead wood.
The same should be true for Xun Xu, but his previous virtues were slightly stronger, so after you, after a few generations, the heirs of the feudal kingdom will also be deposed.
After finishing speaking, he ordered Gencha to leave.
Mai Yi suddenly returned to the camp, looking haggard and delirious. It took him a day to recover.
Later, Mai Mi died under a bell, Hou Hou drank gin and drank wine, and Mai Wu was tortured to death with a big stick, all just as said.
When King Sima Lun of Zhao failed, the court recalled Gentong's achievements and discussed establishing an heir for him.
He wanted Jia Chong's grandnephew Sanqi Shilang Jia Zhong to be his heir, but Jia Zhong pretended to be a crazy white rabbit.
He made Jia Zhong's son Jia Tu the descendant of Maichong and was granted the title of Duke of Lu. He died of illness again.
In the year of Yongxing, Jia Chong's great-nephew Mai Zhan was made Duke of Lu. As a descendant of Jia Chong, he died in turmoil and the feudal state was cancelled.
During the Taishi period, people wrote songs in recognition of Jia Chong and others: Jia, Pei, and Wang disturbed the discipline.
Wang, Pei and Jia made the world successful.
It is said that they ruined Wei and succeeded in Jin.
Jia Chong's younger brother, named Gong Qi, has an honest and law-abiding personality and has no special talents.
During the Taikang period, he served as Zong Zhengqing.
He successively served as general of the town army, concurrently as captain of the city gate school, and as a servant, and was named Yongpinghou.
After his death, he was given posthumously to the General of the Chinese Army and the Third Division of Yitong.
Jia Chong's nephews Jia Yi and Jia Zun both had good judgment and were appointed as Huangmenlang.
Mai Zun's younger brother Jia Mo is the most famous.
Jia Mo, whose courtesy name is Sifan, had ambitions when he was young.
He has read a lot of classics, is profound and good at planning, and is firm and unshakable.
He is very trusted by the dealer and plans with him whenever anything happens.
Jia Chong was old and seriously ill, and was always worried about his nickname and biography. Buying a model said: Right and wrong will naturally become clear over time and will not be obscured.
Accepting the call, he left home and served as the Shaoling Order, and then successively served as the Minister of the Second Palace, Libu Lang. He was dismissed from his official position due to official duties, and was appointed as the Chariot and Cavalry Sima.
He participated in the execution of Yang Jun and was granted the title of Marquis of Pingyang Township, with a thousand households in the city.
When Sima Zhang, King of Chu, falsely conveyed the imperial edict to harm Sima Liang, King of Runan, and Taibao Guan, the imperial edict sent Jia Mo to lead 200 people from Zhongliu to rescue them.
At that time, Empress Jia had already intervened in the government affairs and wanted to appoint close associates. She appointed Maimo as the regular attendant of the Sanqi and promoted him to the middle servant two days later.
Jia Mo then tried his best to correct the situation and recommended Zhang Hua and Pei Dian to assist in the government affairs.
In the past few years, there was peace and tranquility inside and outside the court, which was attributed to Jia Mo.
So he was awarded the title of Guanglu Doctor.
However, Jia Mo secretly held power, but appeared to be far away from power on the outside. Whenever there was news about Empress Jia, she would rush to ask for it when entering the palace, or pretend to be sick to avoid it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
至于素有嫌忿，多所中陷，朝廷甚惮之。
加贪冒聚敛，富拟王公。
但贾后性甚强暴，模每尽言为陈祸福，后不能从，反谓模毁己。
于是委任之情日衰，而谗间之徒遂进。
模不得志，忧愤成疾。
卒，追赠车骑将军、开府仪同三司，谥曰成。
子游字彦将嗣，历官太子侍讲、员外散骑侍郎。
郭彰，字叔武，太原人，贾后从舅也。
与贾充素相亲遇，充妻待彰若同生。
历散骑常侍、尚书、卫将军，封冠军县侯。
及贾后专朝，彰豫参权势，物情归附，宾客盈门。
世人称为 贾郭 ，谓谧及彰也。
卒，谥曰烈。
杨骏，字文长，弘农华阴人也。
少以王官为高陆令，骁骑、镇军二府司马。
后以后父超居重位，自镇军将军迁车骑将军，封临晋侯。
识者议之曰： 夫封建诸侯，所以籓屏王室也。
后妃，所以供粢盛，弘内教也。
后父始封而以临晋为侯，兆于乱矣。
尚书褚、郭奕并表骏小器，不可以任社稷之重。
武帝不从。
帝自太康以后，天下无事，不复留心万机，惟耽酒色，始宠后党，请谒公行。
而骏及珧、济势倾天下，时人有 三杨 之号。
及帝疾笃，未有顾命，佐命功臣，皆已没矣，朝臣惶惑，计无所从。
而骏尽斥群公，亲侍左右。因辄改易公卿，树其心腹。
会帝小间，见所用者非，乃正色谓骏曰： 何得便尔！
乃诏中书，以汝南王亮与骏夹辅王室。
骏恐失权宠，从中书借诏观之，得便藏匿。
中书监华廙恐惧，自往索之，终不肯与。
translation: 
People in the court were very afraid of people who had always had suspicions and resentments, and were often framed by them.
Coupled with corruption and false claims, the wealth can be compared with that of princes.
However, Queen Jia has a violent temperament, and Jia Mo often tries his best to tell her the good and bad news, but Queen Jia cannot listen to her. Instead, she tells her to slander herself.
As a result, the feeling of entrustment and trust becomes increasingly weak, and those who say bad things and provoke people have an opportunity to take advantage.
Buying locusts will lead to failure, worry and anger will lead to illness.
After his death, he was given posthumously the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry, and the Three Divisions of Kaifu Yitong, with the title of Mi being Sheng.
His son Genyou, also known as Tongtan, was the heir, and he successively served as the minister of the prince and the minister of Sanqi.
Guo Zhang, courtesy name Shuwu, was from Taiyuan and was his cousin after the purchase.
He and Maichong have always been friendly to each other, and Maichong's wife treats Guo Zhang as if he were born from the same mother.
He successively served as a regular servant of the Sanqi, a minister, and a general of the Wei, and was named the champion county marquis.
When Guo Zhang took over the power after buying it, he became involved in the power, people became more popular, and the house was filled with guests.
The world calls them Jia Guo, referring to Jia Mi and Guo Zhang.
Death, the nickname is Lie.
Yang Jun, whose courtesy name is Wen Chang, was born in Huayin, Hongnong.
When he was young, as a royal official, he served as Sima of Gaolu Ling, Xiaoqi and Zhenjun.
Later, as the father of the queen, he took on an unusually important position. He was promoted from general of the town army to general of chariots and cavalry, and was named Marquis of Linjin.
Knowledgeable people commented: The feudal princes are to serve as a barrier for the royal family.
The concubine is responsible for preparing sacrifices and promoting education in the palace.
The queen's father was named Marquis of Linjin from the beginning, which was a sign of unrest.
Both Chu Bi and Guo Yi, the ministers, said that Yang Jun was too weak-minded and could not shoulder the important responsibilities of the country.
Emperor Wu didn't listen.
Since Taikang, the emperor has stabilized the world and no longer pays attention to state affairs. He only indulges in wine and sex. He begins to favor the queen's relatives and ask for intercession to act openly.
And Yang Jun, Yang Jue, and Yang Ji were so powerful that they dominated the world. People at that time called them "Three Yangs".
When the emperor was seriously ill, there was no one to send him, and all the heroes who had supported the destiny were dead. The ministers in the court were frightened and confused, not knowing what to do.
Yang Jun, on the other hand, completely rejected the ministers and stayed at the emperor's side. He took the opportunity to change ministers and establish his own confidants.
Just as the emperor's illness was getting better, he saw that the person he was using was not suitable, so he said to Yang Jun seriously: "How can I send him so casually?"
So the imperial edict was written, asking Sima Liang, king of Runan, and Yang Jun to jointly assist the royal family.
Yang Jun was afraid that he would lose his power and favor, so he borrowed the imperial edict from Zhongshu and hid it after getting it.
Hua Fei, the supervisor of Zhongshu, was afraid and went to ask for Shao Shu himself, but Yang Jun still refused to give it to him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
信宿之间，上疾遂笃，后乃奏帝以骏辅政，帝颔之。
便召中书监华暠、令何劭，口宣帝旨使作遗诏，曰： 昔伊望作佐，勋垂不朽；周霍拜命，名冠往代。
侍中、车骑将军、行太子太保，领前将军杨骏，经德履吉，鉴识明远，毗翼二宫，忠肃茂著，宜正位上台，拟迹阿衡。
其以骏为太尉、太子太傅、假节、都督中外诸军事，侍中、录尚书、领前将军如故。
置参军六人、步兵三千人、骑千人，移止前卫将军珧故府。
若止宿殿中宜有翼卫，其差左右卫三部司马各二十人、殿中都尉司马十人给骏，令得持兵仗出入。
诏成，后对暠、劭以呈帝，帝亲视而无言。
自是二日而崩，骏遂当寄托之重，居太极殿。
梓宫将殡，六宫出辞，而骏不下殿，以武贲百人自卫。
不恭之迹，自此而始。
惠帝即位，进骏为太傅、大都督、假黄钺，录朝政，百官总己。
虑左右间己，乃以其甥段广、张劭为近侍之职。
凡有诏命，帝省讫，入呈太后，然后乃出。
骏知贾后情性难制，甚畏惮之。
又多树亲党，皆领禁兵。
于是公室怨望，天下愤然矣。
骏弟珧、济并有俊才，数相谏止，骏不能用，因废于家。
骏暗于古义，动违旧典。
武帝崩未逾年而改元，议者咸以为违《春秋》逾年书即位之义。
朝廷惜于前失，令史官没之，故明年正月复改年焉。
骏自知素无美望，惧不能辑和远近，乃依魏明帝即位故事，遂大开封赏，欲以悦众，为政严碎，愎谏自用，不允众心。
冯翊太守孙楚素与骏厚，说之曰： 公以外戚，居伊霍之重，握大权，辅弱主。当仰思古人至公至诚谦顺之道。
translation: 
Over the next two nights, the emperor's condition worsened, so the queen asked Yang Jun to assist the government, and the emperor nodded and agreed.
So he summoned Zhongshu to supervise Hua Lu and Zhongshu Ling He Shao, and declared that the emperor had ordered them to issue an edict, saying: In the past, Yi Yin and Jiang Wang assisted in government affairs, and their merits will be immortal. Zhou Bo and Huo Guang were appointed, and their reputations were the greatest in previous dynasties.
Yang Jun, a servant, general of chariots and cavalry, the prince's Taibao, and a former general, has virtues and talents, clear and far-reaching judgments, assistants in the palace, and obvious loyalty and respect. His position should be corrected to be the third Duke, which is the same as the prime minister.
Yang Jun was appointed as Taiwei, Prince Taifu, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military affairs. His positions as Minister, Recorder, and former General remained unchanged.
Set up six soldiers, 3,000 infantrymen, and 1,000 cavalrymen, and move them to the former residence of the vanguard general Yang Jue.
If there are bodyguards living in the palace, send 20 Sima each from the left and right guards, and 10 Sima from the palace to Yang Jun, so that they can go in and out with troops.
The edict was written, and the queen presented it to the emperor in front of Hua Guang and He Shao. The emperor read it in person and said nothing.
The emperor passed away two days later, and Yang Jun was entrusted by the emperor to live in Tai Chi Hall.
The emperor's coffin was about to be buried, and the Sixth Palace went out to say goodbye, but Yang Jun did not leave the palace and defended himself with hundreds of warriors.
The signs of disrespect started at this point.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and promoted Yang Jun to the rank of Taifu, Grand Governor, and Fake Huangtie. He was in charge of the government affairs and all officials were under his control.
Worried about alienating him, he asked his nephews Duan Guang and Zhang Shao to serve as close attendants.
All orders issued by Shao were read by the emperor, presented to the Queen Mother, and then issued.
Yang Jun knew that Queen Jia's temperament was difficult to control and was very afraid of her.
He also extensively cultivated cronies and party members, all of whom led the forbidden troops.
So the clan complained and the whole world was indignant.
Yang Jun's younger brothers, Yang Jue and Yang Ji, both had outstanding talents. They repeatedly advised him not to do this again, but Yang Jun could not accept it, so he abandoned them at home.
Yang Jun did not understand the ancient meaning and acted in violation of the old rules.
The change of Yuan Dynasty less than a year after Emperor Wu's death was considered by those who discussed it to be contrary to the ancient meaning of the Spring and Autumn Annals that the emperor's accession to the throne should be recorded after one year.
The imperial court felt sorry for the previous mistake and asked the historian to cover up the matter, so the year name was changed again in the first month of the next year.
Yang Jun knew that he had never had a good reputation and was afraid that he would not be able to live in harmony with the people around him, so he followed the precedent set by Emperor Wei Ming when he came to the throne and granted officials and rewards in an attempt to please everyone. He is strict and trivial in his political life, stubborn and self-willed, and cannot harmonize with the public.
Sun Chuping, the prefect of Feng Yi, had a close relationship with Yang Jun and advised him: As a foreign relative, in a position as important as that of Yi Yin and Huo Guang, holding great power and assisting weak masters, he should seriously think about the ancient morality of extreme respect, extreme honesty and humility.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
于周则周召为宰，在汉则硃虚、东牟，未有庶姓专朝，而克终庆祚者也。
今宗室亲重，籓王方壮，而公不与共参万机，内怀猜忌，外树私昵，祸至无日矣。
骏不能从。
弘训少府蒯钦，骏之姑子。少而相昵，直亮不回，屡以正言犯骏，珧、济为之寒心。
钦曰： 杨文长虽暗，犹知人之无罪不可妄杀，必当疏我。
我得疏外，可以不与俱死。
不然，倾宗覆族，其能久乎！
殿中中郎孟观、李肇，素不为骏所礼，阴构骏将图社稷。
贾后欲预政事，而惮骏未得逞其所欲，又不肯以妇道事皇太后。
黄门董猛，始自帝之为太子即为寺人监，在东宫给事于贾后。
后密通消息于猛，谋废太后。
猛乃与肇、观潜相结托。
贾后又令肇报大司马、汝南王亮，使连兵讨骏。
亮曰： 骏之凶暴，死亡无日，不足忧也。
肇报楚王玮，玮然之。
于是求入朝，骏素惮玮，先欲召入，防其为变，因遂听之。
及玮至，观、肇乃启帝，夜作诏，中外戒严，遣使奉诏废骏，以侯就第。
东安公繇率殿中四百人随其后以讨骏。
段广跪而言于帝曰： 杨骏受恩先帝，竭心辅政。
且孤公无子，岂有反理？
愿陛下审之。
帝不答。
时骏居曹爽故府，在武库南，闻内有变，召众官议之。
太傅主簿硃振说骏曰： 今内有变，其趣可知，必是阉竖为贾后设谋，不利于公。
宜烧云龙门以示威，索造事都首，开万春门，引东宫及外营兵，公自拥翼皇太子，入宫取奸人。
殿内震惧，必斩送之，可以免难。
translation: 
In the Zhou Dynasty, Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong were the prime ministers, while in the Han Dynasty, Zhu Xu and Dong Mou were the prime ministers. No one with a foreign surname had the exclusive authority to succeed in the end.
Nowadays, the clan is close to the powerful, and the vassal king is powerful, but you do not participate in state affairs with them, harbor suspicions and jealousies on the inside, and cultivate cronies and secret parties on the outside. It will not take long for disaster to come.
Yang Jun couldn't obey.
Kuai Qin, the young master of Hongxun, was the son of Yang Jun's aunt. The two had been close since they were young. He was honest and honest, and offended Yang Jun many times with his stern words. Both Yang Jue and Yang Ji were heartbroken by him.
Kuai Qin said: Although Yang Wenchang is fatuous, he still knows that people are not guilty and cannot kill indiscriminately. He will definitely alienate me.
I could be alienated and excluded, I could not die with him.
Otherwise, how long will it take for the clan to fall?
Meng Guan and Li Zhao, the lieutenants in the palace, were not treated politely by Yang Jun, so they secretly fabricated Yang Jun's plot to gain national power.
Empress Jia wanted to interfere in government affairs, but because she was afraid that Yang Jun would not be able to do so, she was unwilling to serve the empress dowager in a womanly manner.
Dong Meng of Huangmen was appointed as eunuch supervisor when the emperor was the crown prince, and served the Empress Mai in Shu Palace.
After buying it, he secretly exchanged information with Dong Meng and planned to depose the Queen Mother.
Dong Meng then colluded with Li Zhao and Meng Guan to rely on each other.
Empress Jia ordered Li Zhao to inform Da Sima and Runan King Sima Liang, asking him to gather troops to attack Yang Jun.
Sima Liang said: Yang Jun is fierce and cruel, and death is right in front of him, so there is no reason to worry.
Kui Zhao notified Sima Zhang, King of Chu, and Sima Zhang agreed to his request and asked to enter the court.
Yang Jun had always been afraid of Sima Zhang, and had wanted to summon him back to the court to prevent him from causing trouble, so he allowed him to enter the court.
When Sima Zhang arrived, Meng Guan and Li Zhao petitioned the emperor to write a Shao book all night and enforce martial law inside and outside. They sent envoys to depose Yang Jun and return home as a marquis.
Ma Yao of Shu'an Company led 400 people in the palace to follow the envoy to attack Yang Jun.
Duan Guang knelt on the ground and said to the emperor: Yang Jun was favored by the late emperor and devoted himself to assisting the government.
Besides, without a son, how can there be any reason to rebel?
May your Majesty consider it carefully.
The emperor did not answer.
At that time, Yang Jun lived in Cao Shuang's former residence, which was on the south side of the armory. He heard that there were changes in the palace and summoned all the officials to discuss it.
Taifu's chief secretary, Sai Mian, persuaded Huaoxiang and said: "Now there is a change in the palace, and its intention can be predicted. It must be the eunuchs and ministers setting up schemes for Empress Jia, which is not good for the public."
We should burn the Yunlong Gate to protest, demand the heads of those who caused the trouble, open the Wanchun Gate, attract troops from the East Palace and the outer camp, and support the prince himself to protect the crown prince and enter the palace to arrest the traitor.
The palace was shocked and frightened, so the traitor must be killed and sent away, so as to avoid disaster.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
骏素怯懦，不决，乃曰： 魏明帝造此大功，奈何烧之！
侍中傅祗夜白骏，请与武茂俱入云龙门观察事势。
祗因谓群僚 宫中不宜空 ，便起揖，于是皆走。
寻而殿中兵出，烧骏府，又令弩士于阁上临骏府而射之，骏兵皆不得出。
骏逃于马厩，以戟杀之。
观等受贾后密旨，诛骏亲党，皆夷三族，死者数千人。
又令李肇焚骏家私书，贾后不欲令武帝顾命手诏闻于四海也。
骏既诛，莫敢收者，惟太傅舍人巴西阎纂殡敛之。
初，骏征高士孙登，遗以布被。
登截被于门，大呼曰： 斫斫刺刺！
旬日托疾诈死，及是，其言果验。
永熙中，温县有人如狂，造书曰： 光光文长，大戟为墙。
毒药虽行，戟还自伤。
及骏居内府，以戟为卫焉。
永宁初，诏曰： 舅氏失道，宗族陨坠，渭阳之思，孔怀感伤。
其以亭侯杨超为奉朝请、骑都尉，以慰《蓼莪》之思焉。
珧字文琚，历位尚书令、卫将军。
素有名称，得幸于武帝，时望在骏前。
以兄贵盛，知权宠不可居，自乞逊位，前后恳至，终不获许。
初，聘后，珧表曰： 历观古今，一族二后，未尝以全，而受覆宗之祸。
乞以表事藏之宗庙，若如臣之言，得以免祸。
从之。
右军督赵休上书陈： 王莽五公，兄弟相代。
今杨氏三公，并在大位，而天变屡见，臣窃为陛下忧之。
由此珧益惧。固求逊位，听之，赐钱百万、绢五千匹。
珧初以退让称，晚乃合朋党，构出齐王攸。
中护军羊琇与北军中侯成粲谋欲因见珧而手刃之。
珧知而辞疾不出。讽有司奏琇，转为太仆。
自是举朝莫敢枝梧，而素论尽矣。
珧临刑称冤，云： 事在石函，可问张华。
translation: 
Nanbi was always cowardly and unable to make a decision, so he said: Emperor Wei Ming has built such a big project, how can he burn it?
Fu Zhi, the servant, told Nuo Hui that night and asked him to go to Yunlongmen with Genjuan to observe the situation.
Baodui took the opportunity to tell the officials that it was not suitable for anyone to be alone in the palace, and then he stood up and said goodbye, so everyone ran away.
Soon Gong Bao sent out troops, burned Yang Jun's house, and ordered archers to shoot arrows at Yang Jun's house from a high place in the attic. Yang Jun's soldiers were unable to get out.
Yang Jun fled to the stables and was killed by a halberd.
Meng Guan and others received secret orders from Empress Jia to kill Yang Jun's relatives and associates. All three tribes were annihilated, and thousands of people died.
She also ordered Li Zhao to burn Yang Jun's private collection of books. Empress Jia did not want the imperial edict sent by Emperor Wu to be known to the outside world.
After Yang Jun was killed, no one dared to collect his body. Only Taifu Sheren, Basi Yanzun, collected and buried him.
At the beginning, Yang Jun recruited Sun Deng, a scholar, and gave him a quilt as a gift.
Sun Deng cut off the quilt in front of the door and shouted: "Cut, chop, stab."
Ten days later, he claimed to be sick and pretended to be dead. When the incident happened, his words came true.
During the Yongxi period, there was a man in Wen County who was like a lunatic. He wrote a book saying: The light is long and the euphorbia is the wall.
Although poison is popular, it still hurts oneself.
When Yang Jun lived in the inner palace, he used the halberd as a defensive weapon.
In the early years of Yongning, Shao Shu said: The uncle's family has lost its moral integrity and the clan has fallen. The feelings of the nephew and uncle are very sad.
I ordered Yang Chao, the Marquis of Xinting, to serve as the imperial captain and the captain of the cavalry, in order to soothe my feelings as expressed in the poem "Polygonum".
Yang Jue, whose courtesy name was Wenju, served successively as Shangshu Ling and General Wei.
He has always been famous and was favored by Emperor Wu. At that time, his reputation was higher than that of Yang Jun.
Because his brother was in a distinguished and distinguished position, he knew that power and favor could not last long, so he begged to resign. He was sincere and sincere several times, but he never received permission.
When he first married the queen, Yang Jue said: Looking at ancient and modern dynasties, if two queens were born in a family, none of them could be saved. Instead, they suffered the disaster of overthrowing the family.
Please keep this watch in the ancestral temple. If it goes as I said, it will save me from disaster.
Complied with him.
Zhao Xiu, the governor of the right army, wrote a letter saying: There are five sons in Wang Mang's family, and they are replaced by brothers.
Nowadays, the three princes of the Yang family are all in high positions, and God has repeatedly shown changes. I am secretly worried about this matter for Your Majesty.
Therefore, Yang Yao became even more frightened and insisted on dismissing his official position. The emperor obeyed him and granted him one million dollars in money and five thousand pieces of silk.
Yang Yao was known for his humility at first, but in his later years he gathered his cliques and framed Qi King Sima You to force him to leave the capital.
Yang Jue, the commander of the Central Guard Army, and Cheng Can, the commander-in-chief of the Northern Army, plotted to kill Yang Jue with his own hands when he saw him.
After learning about it, Yang Yao claimed that he was ill and could not go out, suggesting that the relevant officials would write a letter to impeach Yang Lin and have him be transferred to the position of imperial servant.
From then on, no one in the entire court dared to resist him, and his good reputation was completely lost.
When Yang Jue was about to be executed, he cried out for injustice and said: Everything is wrapped up in the stone box. You can ask Zhang Hua.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
当时皆谓宜为申理，合依钟毓事例。
而贾氏族党待诸杨如仇，促行刑者遂斩之。时人莫不嗟叹焉。
济字文通，历位镇南、征北将军，迁太子太傅。
济有才艺，尝从武帝校猎北芒下，与侍中王济俱著布袴褶，骑马执角弓在辇前。
猛兽突出，帝命王济射之，应弦而倒。
须臾复一出，济受诏又射杀之，六军大叫称快。
帝重兵官，多授贵戚清望，济以武艺号为称职。
与兄珧深虑盛满，乃与诸甥李斌等共切谏。
骏斥出王佑为河东太守，建立皇储，皆济谋也。
初，骏忌大司马汝南王亮，催使之籓。
济与斌数谏止之，骏遂疏济。
济谓傅咸曰： 若家兄征大司马入，退身避之，门户可得免耳。
不尔，行当赤族。
咸曰： 但征还，共崇至公，便立太平，无为避也。
夫人臣不可有专，岂独外戚！
今宗室疏，因外戚之亲以得安，外戚危，倚宗室之重以为援，所谓脣齿相依，计之善者。
济益惧而问石崇曰： 人心云何？
崇曰： 贤兄执政，疏外宗室，宜与四海共之。
济曰： 见兄，可及此。
崇见骏，及焉，骏不纳。
后与诸兄俱见害。
难发之夕，东宫召济。
济谓裴楷曰： 吾将何之？
楷曰： 子为保傅，当至东宫。
济好施，久典兵马，所从四百余人皆秦中壮士，射则命中，皆欲救济。
济已入宫，莫不叹恨。
史臣曰：贾充以谄谀陋质，刀笔常材，幸属昌辰，滥叨非据。
抽戈犯顺，曾无猜惮之心；杖钺推亡，遽有知难之请，非惟魏朝之悖逆，抑亦晋室之罪人者欤！
translation: 
At that time, everyone said that reasons should be stated for him to comply with the precedent of the Zhong Yu incident.
However, Gendan's relatives treated the troubler as an enemy, and the person who urged the execution killed him. Everyone at that time lamented this.
Yang Ji, whose courtesy name was Wentong, served successively as the general of Zhennan and the general of Zhengbei, and then moved to the position of crown prince and tutor.
Yang Ji was talented and skilled. He once followed Emperor Wu to hunt under Beimang. He and his attendant Wang Ji both wore cloth trousers and jackets and rode in front of the chariot with a horned bow.
The beast suddenly appeared, and Emperor Wu ordered Wang Ji to shoot it, but it fell to the ground.
After a while, another one appeared. Yang Ji accepted the order and shot it again. The Sixth Army cheered loudly.
The emperor valued military attachés and often awarded appointments to noble relatives based on their reputation. Yang Ji was known as a competent official because of his martial arts skills.
He and his brother Yang Jue were deeply worried about complacency, so they earnestly advised him with his nephew Kuixun and others.
It was Yang Ji's strategy to demote Wang Zuo and leave the capital to serve as governor and establish the crown prince.
At first, Yang Jun was worried about Sima Runan and Sima Liang, the king, and urged him to go to the vassal state.
Yang Ji and Li Bin repeatedly tried to stop him, so Yang Jun alienated Yang Ji.
Yang Ji said to Fu Xian: If my brother Zhang Zheng transferred Sima to the capital and showed humility to him, our family would be saved from disaster.
Otherwise, it will definitely bring disaster to the family.
Fu Xian said: As long as the levy commander Sima returns to Beijing and works together to promote justice, peace can be established and there is no need to evade.
Ministers cannot have exclusive power. Should it be limited to relatives?
Nowadays, the clan is estranged and relies on the closeness of its relatives for peace. If the relatives are in danger, they must rely on the dignity of the clan as backup. This is the so-called lip-to-tooth dependence, which is the best strategy.
Yang Chuan was even more frightened and asked Husai: What do people think now?
Husai said: Your brother is in power and alienates and excludes the clan. He should be in charge of the government together with the four parties.
Yang Ji said: You can mention this when you meet my brother.
Shi Chong saw Yang Jun and said this, but Yang Jun did not accept it.
Later, he and several brothers were killed.
On the night when the disaster occurred, Yang Ji was summoned by the East Palace.
Yang Ji said to Pei Kai: Where should I go to wrap my clothes?
Feihu said: As the guardian, you should go to Shugong.
Chao Fei liked giving alms and had been in charge of the army for a long time. The more than 400 people who followed him were all strong men from the Sedi. They could hit the target as long as they shot arrows, and they all wanted to save Yang Ji.
Longmu has entered the palace, and everyone sighs and regrets.
Shi Chen said: Jia Chong, with his shallow qualities of flattery and mediocre talents in writing and writing, was lucky enough to catch up with the prosperous era, but he was unable to occupy a high position.
He drew his troops to commit rebellion without even the thought of suspicion and fear; when he was given the military power to attack Wu, he actually asked to retreat despite the difficulties. This was not only Wei's rebellion, but also Jin's sinner!


Chunk 15: 
original: 
然犹身极宠光，任兼文武，存荷台衡之寄，没有从享之荣，可谓无德而禄，殃将及矣。
逮乎贻厥，乃乞丐之徒，嗣恶稔之余基，纵奸邪之凶德。
煽兹哲妇，索彼惟家，虽及诛夷，曷云塞责。
昔当涂阙翦，公闾实肆其劳，典午分崩，南风亦尽其力，可谓 君以此始，必以此终 ，信乎其然矣。
杨骏阶缘宠幸，遂荷栋梁之任，敬之犹恐弗逮，骄奢淫泆，庸可免乎？
括母以明智全身，会昆以先言获宥，文琚识同曩烈，而罚异昔人，裴夫！
赞曰：公闾便佞，心乖雅正。
邀遇时来，遂阶荣命。
乞丐承绪，凶家乱政。
琐琐文长，遂居栋梁。
据非其位，乃底灭亡。
珧虽先觉，亦罹祸殃。
translation: 
However, he enjoyed great favor and glory, held important civil and military positions, shouldered the important responsibilities of prime minister while he was alive, and had the honor of having tangerine sacrificed to the royal family after his death. It can be said that he enjoyed a generous salary without virtue, and disaster was about to happen.
As for his descendants, they are like beggars, inheriting the root of bad habits and indulging in evil and evil virtues.
For inciting that scheming woman to pursue that kind of family and world situation, even if she was killed, how could she be said to be absolved of her guilt?
In the past, Wei's collapse was due to Jia Zeng's hard work, and Jin's collapse was due to his hard work. It can be said that if you start in this way, you will end in this way. This is really true!
Yang Jun was favored by virtue of his status as a relative, so he took on the important responsibility of being a pillar. He was afraid that it would be too late to be respectful, but instead he was arrogant and extravagant. Can he avoid disaster?
Tong Kuo's mother saved herself because of her wisdom, Zhong Hui's brother was pardoned because of his words, Wen Ju had the same knowledge as his ancestors, but received the same punishment as his ancestors, how sad!
Zan said: The public flatters sycophants, and the thoughts are contrary to the right way.
When a good opportunity comes, he ascends to a prominent position.
Beggars carry on the family line, causing harm to the family and disrupting politics.
A mediocre writer occupies an important position.
He occupies a high position due to incompetence and eventually perishes.
Although Yang Yao was aware of it in advance, he also suffered disaster.


