Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 5, 11]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
赵充国字翁孙，陇西上邽人也，后徙金城令居。
始为骑士，以六郡良家子善骑射补羽林。
为人沉勇有大略，少好将帅之节，而学兵法，通知四夷事。
武帝时，以假司马从贰师将军击匈奴，大为虏所围。
汉军乏食数日，死伤者多，充国乃与壮士百余人溃围陷陈，贰师引兵随之，遂得解。
身被二十余创，贰师奏状，诏征充国诣行在所。武帝亲见视其创，嗟叹之，拜为中郎，迁连骑将军长史。
昭帝时，武都氐人反，充国以大将军、护军都尉将兵击定之，迁中郎将，将屯上谷，还为水衡都尉。
击匈奴，获西祁王，擢为后将军，兼水衡如故。
与大将军霍光定册尊立宣帝，封营平侯。
本始中，为蒲类将军征匈奴，斩虏数百级，还为后将军、少府。
匈奴大发十余万骑，南旁塞，至符奚庐山，欲入为寇。
亡者题除渠堂降汉言之，遣充国将四万骑屯缘边九郡。
单于闻之，引去。
是时，光禄大夫义渠安国使行诸羌，先零豪言愿时渡湟水北，逐民所不田处畜牧。
安国以闻。
充国劾安国奉使不敬。
是后，羌人旁缘前言，抵冒渡湟水，郡县不能禁。
元康三年，先零遂与诸羌种豪二百余人解仇交质盟诅。
上闻之，以问充国，对曰： 羌人所以易制者，以其种自有豪，数相攻击，势不一也。
往三十余岁，西羌反时，亦先解仇合约攻令居，与汉相距，五六年乃定。
至征和五年，先零豪封煎等通使匈奴，匈奴使人至小月氏，传告诸羌曰： 汉贰师将军众十余万人降匈奴。
羌人为汉事苦。
张掖、酒泉本我地，地肥美，可共击居之。 以此观匈奴欲与羌合，非一世也。
间者匈奴困于西方，闻乌桓来保塞，恐兵复从东方起，数使使尉黎、危须诸国，设以子女貂裘，欲沮解之。
translation: 
Zhao Chongguo, named Wengsun, was from Shangbang in Longxi. He later moved to Jincheng Lingju.
He was just a knight at the beginning, but later he was a member of a good family in six counties and was good at horseback riding and archery and was promoted to a guard of the feather forest.
He was calm and courageous, with profound strategies. When he was young, he liked the integrity of a general, so he went to study the art of war and became familiar with the affairs of the barbarians in all directions.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Chongguo followed the Second Division General as a fake Sima to attack the Xiongnu, and was heavily surrounded by the enemy.
The Han army was without food for several days and suffered many casualties. Zhao Chongguo and more than 100 strong men broke through the siege and captured the enemy's formation. The general of the Second Division led the soldiers to follow him, and they were able to escape the siege.
Zhao Chongguo suffered more than 20 injuries all over his body. General Ershi reported the situation to Emperor Wu, who ordered Zhao Chongguo to be summoned to the place where he was traveling. Emperor Wu personally received Zhao Chongguo and visited his injuries. He praised him, awarded him the title of Zhonglang, and promoted him to the post of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. Zhao Chongguo led troops to attack and quelled the rebellion as a general to protect the army. He was promoted to Zhonglang General and led his troops to garrison in Shanggu County. After returning, he was appointed as the captain of Shuiheng.
Later, he went to attack the Xiongnu and captured King Xiqi. He was promoted to the post-general, and he still served as the captain of Shuiheng.
Zhao Chongguo and General Huo Guang decided to support Emperor Xuan and were named Yingpinghou.
During the Benshi period, he used the post of General Pulei to conquer the Xiongnu and killed hundreds of enemies. After returning the army, he was appointed as the Hou General and Shaofu.
The Xiongnu mobilized more than 100,000 cavalry and went south to approach the Han Dynasty border fortress. They reached Mount Fuxi and prepared to invade and plunder.
Tichu Qutang, who had escaped from the Xiongnu, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and told the story. The Han Dynasty sent Zhao Chongguo to lead 40,000 cavalry to garrison the nine counties on the border.
After Shanyu heard what had happened, he led his troops and left.
At this time, Guanglu doctor Yiqu Anguo was on an envoy to inspect various Qiang tribes. The chief Xianling expressed his hope to cross the river to the north bank of the Huangshui River at a certain time to find places where Han people did not cultivate their livestock.
Anguo reported the dispatch to the emperor.
Zhao Chongguo impeached Anguo for the crime of disrespect after being ordered to send an envoy.
After that, the Qiang people violated Han law and crossed the Huangshui River as mentioned above, but the counties and counties could not stop them.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xianling resolved his grudges with more than 200 Qiang chiefs, exchanged hostages and signed an oath of alliance.
After the emperor learned about this, he consulted Zhao Chongguo. Zhao Chongguo replied: The reason why the Qiang tribe was easily suppressed is because each tribe has its own leader. They often attack each other and their forces cannot be unified.
More than 30 years ago, when the Xiqiang people created the Han Dynasty, they resolved their enmities in advance and made an alliance to attack Lingju and compete with the Han Dynasty. It took five or six years to calm down.
In the fifth year of Zhenghe, Xianling leader Feng Jian and others sent envoys to the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu sent envoys to Xiaoyueshi. Rumors told the tribes that: General Ershi of the Han Dynasty led more than 100,000 people to surrender to the Xiongnu.
The Qiang people had a hard time serving the Han Dynasty.
Digging? The land was originally our place, the land was fertile, and we could attack and occupy it together. From this, we can see that Bao Xi wanted to unite with the police for a long time.
Not long ago, the west side of Lisu was trapped. Hearing that Wudan was coming to defend the frontier, and fearing that the war would start from the east, he sent envoys to Weili and Weisu countries many times, promising to give them men and women and mink clothes, in an attempt to alienate the friendly relationship between them and Lian.
summary:
Zhao Chongguo, styled Wengsun, was from Shangbang in Longxi and later moved to Jincheng Lingju. He began as a knight, was promoted to a guard of the feather forest for his skill in horseback riding and archery, and was known for his calm courage and strategic depth. He studied military strategy and became familiar with barbarian affairs. Under Emperor Wu, he served as a fake Sima under the Second Division General against the Xiongnu, breaking through an enemy siege with over 100 strong men despite heavy casualties and over 20 wounds. Emperor Wu personally honored him, appointing him Zhonglang and later General of Chariots and Cavalry. Under Emperor Zhao, he quelled a Di rebellion in Wudu, was promoted to Zhonglang General, and later captured Xiongnu King Xiqi, becoming a post-general. He supported Emperor Xuan’s ascension with Huo Guang and was named Yingpinghou. During the Benshi period, he led a campaign against the Xiongnu, killing hundreds, and was appointed Hou General and Shaofu. When the Xiongnu mobilized over 100,000 cavalry near the border, Zhao Chongguo led 40,000 cavalry to garrison nine counties, causing the Shanyu to retreat. He later impeached Yiqu Anguo for disrespect after Anguo mishandled Qiang affairs. In the third year of Yuankang, Qiang chief Xianling formed alliances, and Zhao Chongguo warned of potential rebellion, citing past Qiang uprisings and Xiongnu collusion. He advised preparations, but Anguo’s subsequent actions—killing over 30 Qiang leaders and attacking their tribes—provoked a widespread Qiang revolt. Zhao Chongguo, over 70, was tasked with leading the campaign. He insisted on personal command, saying “seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times,” and Emperor Xuan agreed.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
先零羌虏欲为背畔，故与罕、开解仇结约，然其私心不能亡恐汉兵至而罕、开背之也。
臣愚以为其计常欲先赴罕、开之急，以坚其先击罕羌、先零必助之。
今虏马肥，粮食方饶，击之恐不能伤害，适使先零施德于罕羌，坚其约，合其党。
虏交坚党合，精兵二万余人，迫胁诸小种，着者稍众，莫须之属不轻得离也。
如是，虏兵寝多，诛之用力数倍，臣恐国家忧累繇十年数，不二三岁而已。
臣得蒙天子厚恩，父子俱为显列。
臣位至上卿，爵为列侯，犬马之齿七十六，为明诏填沟壑，死骨不朽，亡所顾念。
独思惟兵利害至熟悉也，于臣之计，先诛先零已，则罕、开之属不烦兵而服矣。
先零已诛而罕、开不服，涉正月击之得计之理，又其时也。
以今进兵，诚不见其利，唯陛下裁察。
六月戊申奏，七月甲寅玺书报从充国计焉。
充国引兵至先零在所。
虏久屯聚，解弛，望见大军，弃车重，欲渡湟水，道厄狭，充国徐行驱之。
或曰逐利行迟，充国曰： 此穷寇不可迫也。
缓之则走不顾，急之则还致死。 诸校皆曰： 善。
虏赴水溺死者数百，降及斩首五百余人，卤马、牛羊十万余头，车四千余两。
兵至罕地，令军毋燔聚落刍牧田中。
罕羌闻之，喜曰： 汉果不击我矣！
豪靡忘使人来言： 愿得还复故地。
充国以闻，未报。
靡忘来自归，充国赐饮食，遣还谕种人。
护军以下皆争之，曰： 此反虏，不可擅遣。
充国曰： 诸君但欲便文自营，非为公家忠计也。
语未卒，玺书报，令靡忘以赎论。
后罕竟不烦兵而下。
其秋，充国病，上赐书曰； 制诏后将军：闻苦脚胫、寒泄，将军年老加疾，一朝之变不可讳，朕甚忧之。
今诏破羌将军诣屯所，为将军副，急因天时大利，吏士锐气，以十二月击先零羌。
即疾剧，留屯毋行，独遣破羌、强弩将军。
时，羌降者万余人矣。
充国度其必坏，欲罢骑兵屯田，以待其敝。
作奏未上，会得进兵玺书，中郎将卬惧，使客谏充国曰： 诚令兵出，破军杀将以倾国家，将军守之可也。
translation: 
The enemies of the Xianling Qiang wanted to betray the Han Dynasty, so they made an alliance with the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang to dissolve their former enemies. However, in their hearts they had to be afraid that the Han army would betray them when Houhan and Kai Qiang arrived.
The minister foolishly believed that Xianling Qiang's strategy was often to go to Hanqiang first and open the Qiang's critical situation to strengthen their alliance. If they attacked Hanqiang first, Xianling would definitely come to their aid.
Now that the enemy's horses are fat and their food and grass are plentiful, attacking him will probably not cause any harm to them. This will allow Xian Ling to show kindness to the Han Qiang, allowing them to strengthen their alliance and unite their party members.
If the enemy makes a strong alliance and unites their party members, their elite troops can reach more than 20,000 people. If they coerce other weak tribes, the number of people who will join them will gradually increase, and small tribes like Mosu will not leave easily.
If this is the case, the enemy's strength will gradually increase, and it will take several times the force to kill them. I am afraid that the country's worries and burdens will take ten years to calculate, not two or three years.
The ministers were favored by the emperor, and both father and son were important officials of the court.
The minister's official position reaches Jiuqing. I have reached the rank of lord and am seventy-six years old. I threw my body into a ditch in pursuit of a wise edict. Even though I am immortal, I have nothing to worry about.
I just consider that I am most familiar with the advantages and disadvantages of using troops, so as a minister, I attack the zeros first and then conquer the Han Qiang, Ji Qianqiang and so on without using troops.
After the Ling Qiang was killed, the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang still refused to surrender. They waited until the first month to attack them, which not only had the rationale for using troops, but also the timing of using troops.
It is really not profitable to march at this time, so I hope your Majesty will make a clear decision.
In June, Wushen submitted a memorial, and in July, Emperor Jiayin sealed a letter to Zhao Chongguo telling him to follow his strategy.
Zhao Chongguo led his troops to where Xianling Qiang was.
The enemy had been stationed for a long time and relaxed their vigilance. When they saw the large army, they abandoned their vehicles and baggage and wanted to cross the Huangshui River. The road was narrow, so Zhao Chongguo marched slowly to catch up with the enemy.
Some people say that chasing and winning should be fast, but it is too slow to move forward like this. Zhao Chongguo said: This is the so-called pursuit of poor enemies.
If you pursue slowly, they will run away without looking back; if you pursue them too quickly, they will turn back and fight to the death. All the captains said: OK.
Hundreds of people were drowned by the enemy. More than 500 people surrendered or were beheaded. More than 100,000 horses, cattle and sheep were captured, and more than 4,000 vehicles were captured.
When the army arrived at a place where the Qiang were rare, they were ordered not to burn villages and not to cut grass in the fields for grazing.
After hearing this, the Han and Qiang people said happily: The Han army will not attack us as expected!
The leader Miwang sent someone to say: I hope to return to the original place.
Zhao Chongguo reported this to the emperor, but received no answer.
Mi Wang came to surrender in person, and Zhao Chongguo gave him food and drink and let him go back to inform his people.
The officers below the guard army all argued with Zhao Chongguo about this matter, saying: "This is a traitor and we cannot let him go without permission."
Zhao Chongguo said: You just want to completely comply with the official document and plan for your own sake, not for the sake of loyalty to the country.
Before he finished speaking, the seal came down, ordering Mi Wang to be punished as atonement.
Later, Hanqiang was finally conquered without any troops.
In the autumn of this year, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and the emperor sent a letter saying: General after issuing the imperial edict: I heard that you are suffering from pain in your legs and feet, and the wind and cold are coming down. The general is old and sick, and I cannot hide the changes. I am very worried about this.
Now Shao ordered General Po Qiang to arrive at the station. As the general's deputy, he quickly took advantage of the favorable weather and the vigor of the officers and soldiers to attack Xianling Qiang in December.
If the condition is serious, you can stay at the station and only send Poqiang and Qiannu generals.
By this time, more than 10,000 Qiang people had surrendered.
Zhao Chongguo considered that the enemy would definitely fail, so he prepared to withdraw his cavalry to garrison the fields to wait for the enemy to be trapped.
Before the memorial was written and reported, the seal requesting the march was received. General Zhao Yin of Zhonglang was frightened, so he sent his disciples to admonish Zhao Chongguo, saying: "Ordering the army to attack will really cause the army to suffer defeat. If the general is killed and the country is in danger of overthrow, it is okay for the general to stand firm."
summary:
At Jincheng, Zhao Chongguo crossed the Yellow River cautiously, avoiding enemy traps. He prioritized reconnaissance, fortifications, and soldier welfare, refusing to engage in small skirmishes. His son Zhao Yin led reinforcements, but Zhao Chongguo advocated a strategy of kindness and power, recruiting Qiang tribes like Han and Kai to disrupt enemy plans. Emperor Xuan assembled 60,000 troops, but Zhao Chongguo opposed a proposed attack by Xin Wuxian, arguing it risked logistical failure and enemy ambush. He recommended a defensive approach, focusing on farming and waiting for the enemy to weaken. Despite imperial pressure, Zhao Chongguo submitted a memorial detailing a plan to withdraw cavalry and station 10,281 soldiers for farming, listing twelve benefits including cost savings, enemy attrition, and border security. Emperor Xuan eventually approved his strategy.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
封若零、弟泽二人为帅众王，离留、且种二人为侯，皃库为君，阳雕为言兵侯，良皃为君，靡忘为献牛君。
初置金城属国以处降羌。
诏举可护羌校尉者，时充国病，四府举辛武贤小弟汤。
充国遽起奏： 汤使酒，不可典蛮夷。不如汤兄临众。
时，汤已拜受节，有诏更用临众。
后临众病免，五府复举汤，汤数醉酉句羌人，羌人反畔，卒如充国之言。
初，破羌将军武贤在军中时与中郎将卬宴语，卬道： 车骑将军张安世始尝不快上，上欲诛之，卬家将军以为安世本持橐簪笔事孝武帝数十年，见谓忠谨，宜全度之。
安世用是得免。
及充国还言兵事，武贤罢归故官，深恨，上书告卬泄省中语。
卬坐禁止而入至充国莫府司马中乱屯兵，下吏，自杀。
充国乞骸骨，赐安车驷马、黄金六十斤，罢就第。
朝庭每有四夷大议，常与参兵谋，问筹策焉。
年八十六，甘露二年薨，谥曰壮侯。
传子至孙钦，钦尚敬武公主。
主亡子，主教钦良人习诈有身，名它人子。
钦薨，子岑嗣侯，习为太夫人。
岑父母求钱财亡已，忿恨相告。
岑坐非子免，国除。
元始中，修功臣后，复封充国曾孙伋为营平侯。
初，充国以功德与霍光等列，画未央宫。
成帝时，西羌尝有警，上思将帅之臣，追美充国，乃召黄门郎杨雄即充国图画而颂之，曰：
明灵惟宣，戎有先零。
先零昌狂，侵汉西疆。
translation: 
Ruo Ling and Di Ze were named Shuai Wang, Liliu and Qizhong were named Marquis, Erku was named Lord, Yang Diao was named Yan Binghou, Liang Er was named Lord, and Mi Wang was named Xian Niu Lord.
Wen Shi set up the Jincheng vassal state to arrange the surrender of the Qiang people.
Shaoling elected people who could serve as captains to protect the Qiang. At this time, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and all the four prefectures recommended Xin Wuxian's younger brother Xin Tang.
Zhao Chongguo got up in a hurry and reported: "Xin Tang is drunk and cannot be in charge of barbarian affairs. It is better to send Xin Tang's brother Xin Linzhong."
At that time, Xin Tang had already accepted Fu Jie and issued an edict to change his position to Xin Linzhong.
Later, Xin Linzhong was dismissed from office due to illness, and the Five Governments again recommended Xin Tang. Xin Tang often got drunk and cursed the Qiang people, so the Qiang people rebelled, and finally agreed to what Zhao Chongguo said.
At first, Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian often chatted with Zhao Yin, the Zhonglang general in the army. Zhao Yin said: Chariot general Zhang Anshi was not in line with Emperor Xuan's wishes at the beginning, and Emperor Xuan wanted to kill him. My general believed that Zhang Anshi had served Emperor Xiaowu for decades with a book bag in his hand and a brush in his hair. He was recognized as loyal and prudent, so he should be preserved.
Zhang Anshi was able to avoid death because of this.
When Zhao Chongguo came back and discussed military affairs with the emperor, Xin Wuxian was dismissed from office and returned to his original post. Feeling deeply resentful, he wrote a letter to sue Zhao Yin for leaking what was said in the palace.
Zhao Yin violated the ban and entered Sima Zhong, the shogunate of Zhao Chongguo, and disrupted the military regulations. He was sent to a judge for trial. He committed suicide.
Zhao Chongguo asked for retirement and was given a four-horse carriage, sixty pounds of gold, and was relieved of his duties and returned home.
Whenever there was a major discussion about Sebari, the imperial court often invited him to participate in military planning and asked him about plans and strategies.
He died at the age of eighty-six, two years after Ganlu died, and was given the title Zhuanghou.
The title was passed from his son to his grandson Zhao Qin, who married Princess Jingwu.
The princess had no son, so she asked Zhao Qin's husband Xi to pretend that she was pregnant, but in fact she was someone else's son.
Zhao Qin died, his son Zhao Cen succeeded to the throne, and Xi became the dowager.
Zhao Cen's biological parents had no end to their demands for money, so they resentfully reported on each other.
Zhao Cen was exempted from his title and fiefdom because he was not his biological son.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the descendants of the heroes were reborn and Zhao Ji, the great-grandson of Zhao Chongguo, was granted the title of Yinghuhou.
At the beginning, Zhao Chongguo painted his portrait in Weiyang Palace because his merits and virtues were comparable to Huo Guang's.
When he became emperor, there was an alarm in Xiqiang. The emperor missed the generals and ministers, commemorated and praised Zhao Chongguo, so he summoned Yang Xiong, a man from Huangmen, to write a eulogy next to Zhao Chongguo's portrait:
In the era of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty who was wise and holy, there were Xianling in Rong and Di.
Xian Ling was rampant and invaded the western frontier of the Han Dynasty.
summary:
Zhao Chongguo’s campaign succeeded: over 10,000 Qiang surrendered, and by the following year, only about 4,000 enemies remained. He was praised for his foresight, though his son Zhao Yin committed suicide after a dispute. Zhao Chongguo retired with honors and died at 86. His portrait was placed in Weiyang Palace, and a eulogy by Yang Xiong celebrated his achievements. The text also covers Xin Wuxian and his son Xin Qingji, noting their military roles and eventual decline under Wang Mang. The commentary reflects on the martial traditions of western regions like Tianshui and Longxi, attributing the prevalence of generals there to proximity to Qiang and Hu peoples.

