Chunk 0: 
original: 
赵充国字翁孙，陇西上邽人也，后徙金城令居。
始为骑士，以六郡良家子善骑射补羽林。
为人沉勇有大略，少好将帅之节，而学兵法，通知四夷事。
武帝时，以假司马从贰师将军击匈奴，大为虏所围。
汉军乏食数日，死伤者多，充国乃与壮士百余人溃围陷陈，贰师引兵随之，遂得解。
身被二十余创，贰师奏状，诏征充国诣行在所。武帝亲见视其创，嗟叹之，拜为中郎，迁连骑将军长史。
昭帝时，武都氐人反，充国以大将军、护军都尉将兵击定之，迁中郎将，将屯上谷，还为水衡都尉。
击匈奴，获西祁王，擢为后将军，兼水衡如故。
与大将军霍光定册尊立宣帝，封营平侯。
本始中，为蒲类将军征匈奴，斩虏数百级，还为后将军、少府。
匈奴大发十余万骑，南旁塞，至符奚庐山，欲入为寇。
亡者题除渠堂降汉言之，遣充国将四万骑屯缘边九郡。
单于闻之，引去。
是时，光禄大夫义渠安国使行诸羌，先零豪言愿时渡湟水北，逐民所不田处畜牧。
安国以闻。
充国劾安国奉使不敬。
是后，羌人旁缘前言，抵冒渡湟水，郡县不能禁。
元康三年，先零遂与诸羌种豪二百余人解仇交质盟诅。
上闻之，以问充国，对曰： 羌人所以易制者，以其种自有豪，数相攻击，势不一也。
往三十余岁，西羌反时，亦先解仇合约攻令居，与汉相距，五六年乃定。
至征和五年，先零豪封煎等通使匈奴，匈奴使人至小月氏，传告诸羌曰： 汉贰师将军众十余万人降匈奴。
羌人为汉事苦。
张掖、酒泉本我地，地肥美，可共击居之。 以此观匈奴欲与羌合，非一世也。
间者匈奴困于西方，闻乌桓来保塞，恐兵复从东方起，数使使尉黎、危须诸国，设以子女貂裘，欲沮解之。
translation: 
Zhao Chongguo, named Wengsun, was from Shangbang in Longxi. He later moved to Jincheng Lingju.
He was just a knight at the beginning, but later he was a member of a good family in six counties and was good at horseback riding and archery and was promoted to a guard of the feather forest.
He was calm and courageous, with profound strategies. When he was young, he liked the integrity of a general, so he went to study the art of war and became familiar with the affairs of the barbarians in all directions.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Chongguo followed the Second Division General as a fake Sima to attack the Xiongnu, and was heavily surrounded by the enemy.
The Han army was without food for several days and suffered many casualties. Zhao Chongguo and more than 100 strong men broke through the siege and captured the enemy's formation. The general of the Second Division led the soldiers to follow him, and they were able to escape the siege.
Zhao Chongguo suffered more than 20 injuries all over his body. General Ershi reported the situation to Emperor Wu, who ordered Zhao Chongguo to be summoned to the place where he was traveling. Emperor Wu personally received Zhao Chongguo and visited his injuries. He praised him, awarded him the title of Zhonglang, and promoted him to the post of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, the Di people in Wudu County rebelled. Zhao Chongguo led troops to attack and quelled the rebellion as a general to protect the army. He was promoted to Zhonglang General and led his troops to garrison in Shanggu County. After returning, he was appointed as the captain of Shuiheng.
Later, he went to attack the Xiongnu and captured King Xiqi. He was promoted to the post-general, and he still served as the captain of Shuiheng.
Zhao Chongguo and General Huo Guang decided to support Emperor Xuan and were named Yingpinghou.
During the Benshi period, he used the post of General Pulei to conquer the Xiongnu and killed hundreds of enemies. After returning the army, he was appointed as the Hou General and Shaofu.
The Xiongnu mobilized more than 100,000 cavalry and went south to approach the Han Dynasty border fortress. They reached Mount Fuxi and prepared to invade and plunder.
Tichu Qutang, who had escaped from the Xiongnu, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and told the story. The Han Dynasty sent Zhao Chongguo to lead 40,000 cavalry to garrison the nine counties on the border.
After Shanyu heard what had happened, he led his troops and left.
At this time, Guanglu doctor Yiqu Anguo was on an envoy to inspect various Qiang tribes. The chief Xianling expressed his hope to cross the river to the north bank of the Huangshui River at a certain time to find places where Han people did not cultivate their livestock.
Anguo reported the dispatch to the emperor.
Zhao Chongguo impeached Anguo for the crime of disrespect after being ordered to send an envoy.
After that, the Qiang people violated Han law and crossed the Huangshui River as mentioned above, but the counties and counties could not stop them.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xianling resolved his grudges with more than 200 Qiang chiefs, exchanged hostages and signed an oath of alliance.
After the emperor learned about this, he consulted Zhao Chongguo. Zhao Chongguo replied: The reason why the Qiang tribe was easily suppressed is because each tribe has its own leader. They often attack each other and their forces cannot be unified.
More than 30 years ago, when the Xiqiang people created the Han Dynasty, they resolved their enmities in advance and made an alliance to attack Lingju and compete with the Han Dynasty. It took five or six years to calm down.
In the fifth year of Zhenghe, Xianling leader Feng Jian and others sent envoys to the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu sent envoys to Xiaoyueshi. Rumors told the tribes that: General Ershi of the Han Dynasty led more than 100,000 people to surrender to the Xiongnu.
The Qiang people had a hard time serving the Han Dynasty.
Digging? The land was originally our place, the land was fertile, and we could attack and occupy it together. From this, we can see that Bao Xi wanted to unite with the police for a long time.
Not long ago, the west side of Lisu was trapped. Hearing that Wudan was coming to defend the frontier, and fearing that the war would start from the east, he sent envoys to Weili and Weisu countries many times, promising to give them men and women and mink clothes, in an attempt to alienate the friendly relationship between them and Lian.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其计不合。
疑匈奴更遣使至羌中，道从沙阴地，出盐泽，过长坑，入穷水塞，南抵属国，与先零相直。
臣恐羌变未止此，且复结联他种，宜及未然为之备。
后月余，羌侯狼何果遣使至匈奴借兵，欲击善阝善、敦煌以绝汉道。
充国以为： 狼何，小月氏种，在阳光西南，势不能独造此计，疑匈奴使已至羌中，先零、罕、开乃解仇作约。
到秋马肥，变必起矣。
宜遣使者行边兵豫为备，敕视诸羌，毋令解仇，以发觉其谋。
于是两府复白遣义渠安国行视诸羌，分别善恶。
安国至，召先零诸豪三十余人，以尤桀黠，皆斩之。
纵兵击其种人，斩首千余级。
于是诸降羌及归义羌侯杨玉等恐怒，亡所信乡，遂劫略小种，背畔犯塞，攻城邑，杀长吏。
安国以骑都尉将骑三千屯备羌，至浩亹，为虏所击，失亡车重兵器甚众。
安国引还，至令居，以闻。
是岁，神爵元年春也。
时，充国年七十余，上老之，使御史大夫丙吉问谁可将者，充国对曰： 亡逾于老臣者矣。
上遣问焉，曰： 将军度羌虏何如，当用几人？
充国曰： 百闻不如一见。
兵难逾度，臣愿驰至金城，图上方略。
然羌戎小夷，逆天背畔，灭亡不久，愿陛下以属老臣，勿以为忧。
上笑曰： 诺。
充国至金城，须兵满万骑，欲渡河，恐为虏所遮，即夜遣三校衔枚先渡，渡辄营陈，会明，毕，遂以次尽渡。
虏数十百骑来，出入军傍。
充国曰： 吾士马新倦，不可驰逐。
此皆骁骑难制，又恐其为诱兵也。
translation: 
This plan did not materialize.
I suspect that Baosu sent envoys to the sent tribes to transport salt via the Shayin area. After passing the title, they entered Yongmu and went south to the Dangsu vassal state to join forces with Sailing.
I am afraid that the changes among the Qiang people are not limited to these, and that they will collude with other tribes. We should make preparations before this happens.
More than a month later, the shy retreat sent envoys to the Xiongnu to borrow troops, preparing to attack Chachencha and Dunhuang to cut off the channels of communication between Xuan and Youji.
Langtongli believes that the Langdan and Shaojiedan tribes are in the southwest of Tunhui, so it is impossible to make such a plan alone. I suspect that the envoys of Xiongqu have already arrived among the Qiang tribes, and they first broke off the enmity and entered into an alliance with Ling, Han, and Ji.
When the horses are fat in autumn, trouble will inevitably occur.
Envoys should be sent to patrol the border and prepare in advance, and give orders to tell the tribes not to let them resolve their grudges, so as to find out their plot.
So the two governments asked for instructions to send envoys from Yiqu Anguo to inspect the tribes and distinguish the good from the bad.
After An Guo went to Nabao, he summoned more than thirty leaders of the previous tribes. Since they were all particularly ferocious and cunning, he killed them all.
They also sent troops to attack their tribe and killed more than a thousand people.
So all the Qiang tribes who originally submitted to the Han Dynasty, as well as the Guiyi Qiang Marquis Yang Yu and others, were afraid and angry. They lost trust and returned to the Han Dynasty. They coerced and kidnapped the weak tribes, betrayed and invaded the border fortresses, attacked the cities, and killed the officials.
As the cavalry captain, Anguo led three thousand cavalry to assemble to defend against the Qiang people. When they arrived at Haodian, they were attacked by enemy soldiers and lost many vehicles, baggage and weapons.
An Guo led his troops back and reported the situation after arriving at Ling's residence.
This year is the spring of the first year of Shenjue.
Zhao Chongguo was already over seventy years old at that time. The emperor thought he was old, so he sent Bingji, the imperial censor, to ask who could lead the army. Zhao Chongguo replied: There is no one more than the veteran.
The emperor sent someone to ask again: "General, what do you think will happen to the Qiang enemy? How many people should be used?"
Zhao Chongguo said: Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times.
The military situation is difficult to predict remotely. I hope to rush to Jincheng and formulate a battle plan before submitting it.
However, the Qiang Rong are just a weak Yi tribe. They have betrayed the country against God's will and will soon perish. I hope your Majesty will leave this matter to the old ministers and don't worry.
The emperor smiled and said: "Okay."
Zhao Chongguo arrived at Jincheng and waited until the army gathered 10,000 cavalry to prepare to cross the Yellow River. However, he was afraid of being intercepted by the enemy, so he sent three schools of troops to cross the river at night.
Dozens and hundreds of enemy cavalry came and entered and exited the edge of the military camp.
Zhao Chongguo said: "Our troops and horses are tired and cannot gallop to chase."
This is difficult for the enemy's brave cavalry to subdue, and I'm afraid this is a tactic used by the enemy to lure troops.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
击虏以殄灭为期，小利不足贪。
令军勿击。
遣骑候四望狭中，亡虏。
夜引兵上至落都，召诸校司马，谓曰： 吾知羌虏不能为兵矣。
使虏发数千人守杜四望狭中，兵岂得入哉！
充国常以远斥候为务，行必为战务，止必坚营壁，尤能持重，爱士卒，先计而后战。
遂西至西部都尉府，日飨军士，士皆欲为用。
虏数挑战，充国坚守。
捕得生口，言羌豪相数责曰： 语汝亡反，今天子遣赵将军来，年八九十矣，善为兵。
今请欲一斗而死，可得邪！
充国子右曹中郎将卬，将期门佽飞、羽林孤儿、胡越骑为支兵，至令居，虏并出绝转道，卬以闻。
有诏将八校尉与骁骑都尉、金城太守合疏捕山间虏，通转道津渡。
初，罕、开豪靡当儿使弟雕库来告都尉曰先零欲反，后数日果反。
雕库种人颇在先零中，都尉即留雕库为质。
充国以为亡罪，乃遣归告种豪： 大兵诛有罪者，明白自别，毋取并灭。
天子告诸羌人，犯法者能相捕斩，除罪。
斩大豪有罪者一人，赐钱四十万，中豪十五万，下豪二万，大男三千，女子及老小千钱，又以其所捕妻子财物尽与之。
充国计欲以威信招降罕、开及劫略者，解散虏谋，徼极乃击之。
时，上已发三辅、太常徒弛刑，三河、颍川、沛郡、淮阳、汝南材官，金城、陇西、天水、安定、北地、上郡骑士、羌骑，与武威、张掖、酒泉太守各屯其郡者，合六万人矣。
酒泉太守辛武贤奏言： 郡兵皆屯备南出，北边空虚，势不可久。
translation: 
Attack the enemy with the goal of total annihilation. The small benefits are not worth coveting.
Zhao Chongguo sent an order to the army not to attack.
The cavalry was sent to conduct reconnaissance in the surrounding areas, but no enemy was found.
He led his troops upriver to Luodu at night, then summoned the Sima from each school and said to them: I already know that the Qiang people don't know how to use troops.
If the enemy sends thousands of people to stand in the middle of nowhere, how can our troops get in?
Zhao Chongguo often made it a priority to send scouts far away. He must be prepared for battle when marching and strengthen the forts when stationed. He must be cautious and prudent, love his soldiers, and plan in advance before fighting.
So Zhao Chongguo went west to the Western Commandant's Mansion, and rewarded the sergeants every day, and the soldiers wanted to serve him.
The enemy came to challenge him several times, but Zhao Chongguo could not hold on.
Once a prisoner was captured, and he confessed that the Qiang leaders blamed each other several times and said: "I told you not to do it. Today the emperor sent General Zhao. He is eighty or ninety years old and is good at using troops."
Is it still possible to fight to the death now?
Zhao Chongguo's son Youcao Zhonglang, general Zhao Yin, led Qimen Yinfei, Yulin Orphan, Hu and Yue cavalry as branch troops to Lingju. The enemy attacked at the same time and cut off the Han army's transportation routes. Zhao Yin reported the matter.
Xia Shao ordered him to lead the Eighth School Lieutenant, Xiaoqi Captain, and Jincheng Prefect to work together to hunt down the enemies in the mountains and clear the transportation roads and Jinliang Ferry.
At first, Midang'er, the leader of Han and Kai, sent his younger brother Diaoku to tell the captain that Xianling wanted to build it. After a few days, Xianling actually built it.
There were many people from the Diaoku tribe in Xianling, so the captain detained Diaoku as hostages.
Zhao Chongguo believed that he was not guilty, so he sent him back to tell the tribal leaders: The Han Dynasty army only killed guilty people. They should understand and distinguish among themselves and not destroy themselves together.
The emperor told the Qiang people of all tribes that those who broke the law could be captured and killed and other criminals could be exempted.
Anyone who kills a guilty leader can get a reward of 400,000 yuan; whoever kills a mid-level leader can get 150,000 yuan; whoever kills a low-level leader can get 20,000 yuan; whoever kills an adult man can get 3,000 yuan; whoever kills women, old people and children can get a reward of 1,000 yuan, and all the women, children and money and items he captured must be given to him.
Zhao Chongguo planned to use a combination of kindness and power to recruit Han, Kai tribe and other tribes that were coerced into rebellion, disrupt the enemy's conspiracy, and wait until they were in trouble before attacking again.
At this time, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty had already recruited prisoners with reduced sentences from Sanfu and Taichang Temple, officials from Sanhe, Qingchuan, Peijun, Huaiyang, and Runan counties, knights and Qiang cavalry from Jincheng, Longxi, Tianshui, Anding, Beidi, and Shangjun, as well as troops stationed in the counties of Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan prefects, a total of 60,000 people.
Xin Wuxian, the prefect of Jiuquan, wrote a memorial saying: The troops of each county are stationed in the south of Qilian Mountain, and the north is empty. This situation will not last long.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
或日至秋冬乃进兵，此虏在竟外之册。
今虏朝夕为寇，土地寒苦，汉马不能冬，屯兵在武威、张掖、酒泉万骑以上，皆多羸瘦。
可益马食，以七月上旬赍三十日粮，分兵并出张掖、酒泉合击罕、开在鲜水上者。
虏以畜产为命，今皆离散，兵即分出，虽不能尽诛，亶夺其畜产，虏其妻子，复引兵还，冬复击之，大兵仍出，虏必震坏。
天子下其书充国，令与校尉以下吏士知羌事者博议。
充国及长史董通年以为： 武贤欲轻引万骑，分为两道出张掖，回远千里。
以一马自佗负三十日食，为米二斛四斗，麦八斛，又有衣装兵器，难以追逐。
勤劳而至，虏必商军进退，稍引去，逐水草，入山林。
随而深入，虏即据前险，守后厄，以绝粮道，必有伤危之忧，为夷狄笑，千载不可复。
而武贤以为可夺其畜产，虏其妻子，此殆空言，非至计也。
又武威县、张掖日勒皆当北塞，有通谷水草。
臣恐匈奴与羌有谋，且欲大入，幸能要杜张掖、酒泉以绝西域，其郡兵尤不可发。
先零首为畔逆，它种劫略。
故臣愚册，欲捐罕、开暗昧之过，隐而勿章，先行先零之诛以震动之，宜悔过反善，因赦其罪，选择良吏知其俗者捬循和辑，此全师保胜安边之册。
天子下其书。
公卿议者咸以为先零兵盛，而负罕、开之助，不先破罕、开，则先零未可图也。
上乃拜侍中乐成侯许延寿为强弩将军，即拜酒泉太守武贤为破羌将军，赐玺书嘉纳其册。
以书敕让充国曰：
皇帝问后将军，甚苦暴露。
将军计欲至正月乃击罕羌，羌人当获麦，已远其妻子，精兵万人欲为酒泉、敦煌寇。
边兵少，民守保不得田作。
今张掖以东粟石百余，刍槁束数十。
转输并起，百姓烦扰。
translation: 
Some people say that we will not send troops until autumn and winter. This is the strategy we adopt when the enemy is outside the country.
Now the enemy is harassing them day and night, and the land is cold and barren. The horses of the Han Dynasty cannot spend the winter in Zaobao. There are more than 10,000 horses stationed in Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan, and most of them are emaciated.
You can increase the horse's feed and carry thirty days of food and grass in early July. At the same time, send troops from Zhangye and Jiuquan to attack the troops of the Han and Kai tribes in the upper reaches of Xianshui.
The enemy regards livestock as their lifeblood and is now dispersed. Our army quickly divides its troops to attack. Even if we cannot kill them all, as long as we seize their livestock, capture their wives and children, retreat and return, and attack again in winter, the enemy will definitely collapse if large forces launch frequent attacks.
The emperor handed this memorial to Zhao Chongguo and asked him to discuss it extensively with the officers and soldiers below the captain who knew the situation of the Qiang people.
Zhao Chongguo and Chang Shi Dong Tongnian believed that Xin Wuxian wanted to lead 10,000 cavalry in two directions from Zhangye, which was a thousand miles away.
Assuming that a horse can carry food for thirty days, it needs to carry two bushels of rice, four bushels of rice, eight bushels of wheat, as well as luggage and weapons. It will be difficult for the horse to chase and run.
By the time they arrived with great difficulty and exhaustion, the enemy must have planned the army's itinerary, gradually retreated, and entered the mountains and forests along the water and grassland.
If we follow the enemy and go deeper, they will occupy the dangerous obstacles in front, guard the fortress behind, and cut off our food routes. This will definitely lead to the danger of casualties, which will be ridiculed by the Yi and Di, and will never be undone.
However, Xin Wuxian believed that he could seize the enemy's livestock and capture their wives and children. This was just an empty talk and not the best strategy.
Wuwei County and Zhangye Rile are both located in northern fortresses, with unobstructed valleys and abundant water and grass.
I am afraid that the Xiongnu and Qiang people have already planned a large-scale invasion. I hope to cut off the roads from Zhangye and Jiuquan to the Western Regions, so that the troops from the two counties will not be able to dispatch.
Xianzerg was the first to rebel, and the other tribes were simply hijacked by it.
Therefore, I have a stupid plan. I plan to ignore the mistakes of the Qiang people and hide them instead of publicizing them. First, I will eliminate them first and then shock them. I should make them repent and pardon their crimes. Then I will select outstanding officials who understand the customs of the Qiang people to appease and unite them. This is the best way to ensure the army's victory.
The emperor handed this memorial to all officials for discussion.
The ministers all believed that Xianling had strong troops and relied on the assistance of Han and Kai. If Han and Kai were not defeated first, Xianling would not be easy to deal with.
The emperor appointed Xu Yanshou, the successful lord of the imperial court, as the general of strong crossbows, and appointed Xin Wuxian, the prefect of Jiuquan, as the general of Po Qiang. He gave him a seal of Shao Shu to commend him for adopting his strategy.
He also wrote a letter blaming Zhao Chongguo, saying:
The emperor sent greetings to the general, who was marching very hard outside.
The general planned to attack Hanqiang in the first month. The Qiang people would have harvested their wheat, moved their wives and children, and assembled an elite force of 10,000 people to invade Jiuquan and Dunhuang.
We have few troops on the border, so farming cannot be carried out unless the people guard and protect it.
Nowadays, a stone of millet in Yishu area of ​​Zhangye costs more than one hundred yuan, and a bundle of hay and straw sells for dozens of yuan.
Transporting grain and grass from place to place added to the trouble for the people.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
将军将万余之众，不早及秋共水草之利争其畜食，欲至冬，虏皆当畜食，多藏匿山中依险阻，将军士寒，手足皲瘃，宁有利哉？
将军不念中国之费，欲以岁数而胜微，将军谁不乐此者！
今诏破羌将军武贤将兵六千一百人，敦煌太守快将二千人，长水校尉富昌、酒泉候奉世将婼、月氏兵四千人，亡虑万二千人。
赍三十日食，以七月二十二日击罕羌，入鲜水北句廉上，去酒泉八百里，去将军可千二百里。
将军其引兵便道西并进，虽不相及，使虏闻东方北方兵并来，分散其心意，离其党与，虽不能殄灭，当有瓦解者。
已诏中郎将卬将胡越佽飞射士步兵二校尉，益将军兵。
今五星出东方，中国大利，蛮夷大败。
太白出高，用兵深入敢战者吉，弗敢战者凶。
将军急装，因天时，诛不义，万下必全，勿复有疑。
充国既得让，以为将任兵在外，便宜有守，以安国家。
乃上书谢罪，因陈兵利害，曰：
臣窃见骑都尉安国前幸赐书，择羌人可使使罕、谕告以大军当至，汉不诛罕，以解其谋。
恩泽甚厚，非臣下所能及。
臣独私美陛下盛德至计亡已，故遣开豪雕库宣天子至德，罕、开之属皆闻知明诏。
今先零羌杨玉将骑四千及煎骑五千，阻石山木，候便为寇，罕羌未有所犯。
今置先零，先击罕，释诛亡辜，起一难，就两害，诚非陛下本计也。
臣闻兵法 攻不足者守有余 ，又曰 善战者致人，不致于人 。
今罕羌欲为敦煌、酒泉寇，宜饬兵马，练战士，以须其至，坐得致敌之术，以逸击劳，取胜之道也。
今恐二郡兵少不足以守，而发之行攻，释致虏之术而从为虏所致之道，臣愚以为不便。
translation: 
The general led a large force of more than 10,000 people, and did not take advantage of the convenience of sharing water and grass in autumn to fight for their livestock and food. If the enemy had already accumulated food by winter, most of them relied on dangers to hide in the mountains, and the general's soldiers had their hands and feet cracked by the cold. Wouldn't it still be advantageous?
The general does not care about the expense of the country and plans to defeat the enemy in a few years. Who is a general who would not be happy with this!
现在我已诏令破羌将军辛武贤带兵六千一百人，敦煌太守快带兵二千人，长水校尉富吕、酒泉候冯奉世率领蜡、月氏兵四千人，大概不下一万二千人。
Bring thirty days of food and grass, attack Hanqiang on July 22, enter the bend of the north bank of Xianshui, 800 miles away from Jiuquan and 1,200 miles away from the general.
The general will lead his troops to advance westward from the access road at the same time. Even if they cannot meet up, letting the enemy know that the armies from the east and north are coming together will distract the enemy's fighting spirit and separate their party members. Even if they cannot completely annihilate the enemy, it should still disintegrate them.
I have ordered Zhonglang General Zhao Yin to lead Hu, Yueyin Fei Archers and the Second Infantry School to increase the general's strength.
Now the five stars appear in the east, which will be of great benefit to China, and the barbarians will be defeated.
The Taibai Star appears in a high place, and those who lead troops deep into the field and dare to fight will be lucky, while those who dare not fight will be in danger.
General, hurry up and pack your bags, rely on the weather and attack the injustice, and you will be sure to be foolproof. General, don't have any more doubts.
After Zhao Chongguo received the edict blaming him, he believed that the generals leading troops outside should insist on their opinions according to the situation to stabilize the country.
So he wrote a letter to plead guilty and stated the interests of using troops. He said:
I met privately with the edict that His Majesty had recently given to the Cavalry Commander An Guo, asking him to choose those among the Qiang people who could be sent as envoys to Han Qiang, announcing that the army was about to arrive, and that the Han Dynasty would not kill the Han people in order to disrupt their conspiracy.
The emperor's kindness is extremely profound and cannot be matched by his subordinates.
The ministers privately praised His Majesty for his great virtues and endless ingenuity, so he sent Diaoku, the leader of the Jian Qiang, to publicize the Emperor's great virtues. The tribes of Han and Kai all heard about the wise Shao order.
At present, Yang Yu of Ling Qiang led 4,000 cavalry and 5,000 Jian Gong cavalry. They used mountains, rocks and trees as obstacles, waiting for an opportunity to invade, but Han Qiang did not invade.
Now, putting Xian Ling aside and attacking the Han Qiang first, acquitting the guilty and killing the innocent, causing danger to one side but causing harm to both sides, is really not His Majesty's original plan.
I heard from the Art of War that if the offensive force is insufficient, the defensive force will be more than enough. He also said that those who are good at fighting control others and will not be controlled by others.
Now that Han Qiang wants to invade Dunhuang and Jiuquan, we should rectify weapons and horses, train combat soldiers, and wait for their arrival. This way we can get the tactics to subdue the enemy, and use a recharged army to attack the exhausted enemy. This is the way to win.
Now he is worried that the troops in the two counties are not enough to defend, so he launches them to attack. He abandons the tactics of subduing the enemy and chooses the method of subduing the enemy. The minister foolishly thinks that this is inappropriate.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
先零羌虏欲为背畔，故与罕、开解仇结约，然其私心不能亡恐汉兵至而罕、开背之也。
臣愚以为其计常欲先赴罕、开之急，以坚其先击罕羌、先零必助之。
今虏马肥，粮食方饶，击之恐不能伤害，适使先零施德于罕羌，坚其约，合其党。
虏交坚党合，精兵二万余人，迫胁诸小种，着者稍众，莫须之属不轻得离也。
如是，虏兵寝多，诛之用力数倍，臣恐国家忧累繇十年数，不二三岁而已。
臣得蒙天子厚恩，父子俱为显列。
臣位至上卿，爵为列侯，犬马之齿七十六，为明诏填沟壑，死骨不朽，亡所顾念。
独思惟兵利害至熟悉也，于臣之计，先诛先零已，则罕、开之属不烦兵而服矣。
先零已诛而罕、开不服，涉正月击之得计之理，又其时也。
以今进兵，诚不见其利，唯陛下裁察。
六月戊申奏，七月甲寅玺书报从充国计焉。
充国引兵至先零在所。
虏久屯聚，解弛，望见大军，弃车重，欲渡湟水，道厄狭，充国徐行驱之。
或曰逐利行迟，充国曰： 此穷寇不可迫也。
缓之则走不顾，急之则还致死。 诸校皆曰： 善。
虏赴水溺死者数百，降及斩首五百余人，卤马、牛羊十万余头，车四千余两。
兵至罕地，令军毋燔聚落刍牧田中。
罕羌闻之，喜曰： 汉果不击我矣！
豪靡忘使人来言： 愿得还复故地。
充国以闻，未报。
靡忘来自归，充国赐饮食，遣还谕种人。
护军以下皆争之，曰： 此反虏，不可擅遣。
充国曰： 诸君但欲便文自营，非为公家忠计也。
语未卒，玺书报，令靡忘以赎论。
后罕竟不烦兵而下。
其秋，充国病，上赐书曰； 制诏后将军：闻苦脚胫、寒泄，将军年老加疾，一朝之变不可讳，朕甚忧之。
今诏破羌将军诣屯所，为将军副，急因天时大利，吏士锐气，以十二月击先零羌。
即疾剧，留屯毋行，独遣破羌、强弩将军。
时，羌降者万余人矣。
充国度其必坏，欲罢骑兵屯田，以待其敝。
作奏未上，会得进兵玺书，中郎将卬惧，使客谏充国曰： 诚令兵出，破军杀将以倾国家，将军守之可也。
translation: 
The enemies of the Xianling Qiang wanted to betray the Han Dynasty, so they made an alliance with the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang to dissolve their former enemies. However, in their hearts they had to be afraid that the Han army would betray them when Houhan and Kai Qiang arrived.
The minister foolishly believed that Xianling Qiang's strategy was often to go to Hanqiang first and open the Qiang's critical situation to strengthen their alliance. If they attacked Hanqiang first, Xianling would definitely come to their aid.
Now that the enemy's horses are fat and their food and grass are plentiful, attacking him will probably not cause any harm to them. This will allow Xian Ling to show kindness to the Han Qiang, allowing them to strengthen their alliance and unite their party members.
If the enemy makes a strong alliance and unites their party members, their elite troops can reach more than 20,000 people. If they coerce other weak tribes, the number of people who will join them will gradually increase, and small tribes like Mosu will not leave easily.
If this is the case, the enemy's strength will gradually increase, and it will take several times the force to kill them. I am afraid that the country's worries and burdens will take ten years to calculate, not two or three years.
The ministers were favored by the emperor, and both father and son were important officials of the court.
The minister's official position reaches Jiuqing. I have reached the rank of lord and am seventy-six years old. I threw my body into a ditch in pursuit of a wise edict. Even though I am immortal, I have nothing to worry about.
I just consider that I am most familiar with the advantages and disadvantages of using troops, so as a minister, I attack the zeros first and then conquer the Han Qiang, Ji Qianqiang and so on without using troops.
After the Ling Qiang was killed, the Han Qiang and Kai Qiang still refused to surrender. They waited until the first month to attack them, which not only had the rationale for using troops, but also the timing of using troops.
It is really not profitable to march at this time, so I hope your Majesty will make a clear decision.
In June, Wushen submitted a memorial, and in July, Emperor Jiayin sealed a letter to Zhao Chongguo telling him to follow his strategy.
Zhao Chongguo led his troops to where Xianling Qiang was.
The enemy had been stationed for a long time and relaxed their vigilance. When they saw the large army, they abandoned their vehicles and baggage and wanted to cross the Huangshui River. The road was narrow, so Zhao Chongguo marched slowly to catch up with the enemy.
Some people say that chasing and winning should be fast, but it is too slow to move forward like this. Zhao Chongguo said: This is the so-called pursuit of poor enemies.
If you pursue slowly, they will run away without looking back; if you pursue them too quickly, they will turn back and fight to the death. All the captains said: OK.
Hundreds of people were drowned by the enemy. More than 500 people surrendered or were beheaded. More than 100,000 horses, cattle and sheep were captured, and more than 4,000 vehicles were captured.
When the army arrived at a place where the Qiang were rare, they were ordered not to burn villages and not to cut grass in the fields for grazing.
After hearing this, the Han and Qiang people said happily: The Han army will not attack us as expected!
The leader Miwang sent someone to say: I hope to return to the original place.
Zhao Chongguo reported this to the emperor, but received no answer.
Mi Wang came to surrender in person, and Zhao Chongguo gave him food and drink and let him go back to inform his people.
The officers below the guard army all argued with Zhao Chongguo about this matter, saying: "This is a traitor and we cannot let him go without permission."
Zhao Chongguo said: You just want to completely comply with the official document and plan for your own sake, not for the sake of loyalty to the country.
Before he finished speaking, the seal came down, ordering Mi Wang to be punished as atonement.
Later, Hanqiang was finally conquered without any troops.
In the autumn of this year, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and the emperor sent a letter saying: General after issuing the imperial edict: I heard that you are suffering from pain in your legs and feet, and the wind and cold are coming down. The general is old and sick, and I cannot hide the changes. I am very worried about this.
Now Shao ordered General Po Qiang to arrive at the station. As the general's deputy, he quickly took advantage of the favorable weather and the vigor of the officers and soldiers to attack Xianling Qiang in December.
If the condition is serious, you can stay at the station and only send Poqiang and Qiannu generals.
By this time, more than 10,000 Qiang people had surrendered.
Zhao Chongguo considered that the enemy would definitely fail, so he prepared to withdraw his cavalry to garrison the fields to wait for the enemy to be trapped.
Before the memorial was written and reported, the seal requesting the march was received. General Zhao Yin of Zhonglang was frightened, so he sent his disciples to admonish Zhao Chongguo, saying: "Ordering the army to attack will really cause the army to suffer defeat. If the general is killed and the country is in danger of overthrow, it is okay for the general to stand firm."


Chunk 6: 
original: 
即利与病，又何足争？
一旦不合上意，遣绣衣来责将军，将军之身不能自保，何国家之安？
充国叹曰： 是何言之不忠也！
本用吾言，羌虏得至是邪？
往者举可先行羌者，吾举辛武贤，丞相御史复白遣义渠安国，竟沮败羌。
金城、湟中谷斛八钱，吾谓耿中丞，籴二百万斛谷，羌人不敢动矣。
耿中丞请籴百万斛，乃得四十万斛耳。
义渠再使，且费其半。
失此二册，羌人故敢为逆。
失之毫厘，差以千里，是既然矣。
今兵久不决，四夷卒有动摇，相因而起，虽有知者不能善其后，羌独足忧邪！
吾固以死守之，明主可为忠言。
遂上屯田奏曰：
臣闻兵者，所以明德除害也，故举得于外，则福生于内，不可不慎。
臣所将吏士马牛食，月用粮谷十九万九千六百三十斛，盐千六百九十三斛，茭藁二十五万二百八十六石。
难久不解，繇役不息。
又恐它夷卒有不虞之变，相因并起，为明主忧，诚非素定庙胜之册。
且羌虏易以计破，难用兵碎也，故臣愚以为击之不便。
计度临羌东至浩亹，羌虏故田及公田，民所未垦，可二千顷以上，其间邮亭多坏败者。
臣前部士入山，伐材木大小六万余枚，皆在水次。
愿罢骑兵，留驰刑应募，及淮阳、汝南步兵与史士私从者，合凡万二百八十一人，用谷月二万七千三百六十三斛，盐三百八斛，分屯要害处。
冰解漕下，缮乡亭，浚沟渠，治湟狭以西道桥七十所，令可至鲜水左右。
田事出，赋人二十亩。
translation: 
If it is only based on the relationship between pros and cons, then why should we fight?
Once you do not comply with the emperor's wishes, the emperor sends a censor in embroidered clothes to rebuke the general. The general will not be able to protect himself. How can there be any security for the country?
Zhao Chongguo sighed and said: How disloyal are your words!
If you had listened to my words, could the Qiang enemy be in such a situation?
In the past, I recommended people who could patrol the Qiang people first, but I recommended Xin Wuxian. The prime minister and censor asked the emperor to send Yiqu to stabilize the country, but the plan to defeat the Qiang was ruined.
The dendrobium grains in Jincheng and Huangzhong were sold for eight cents each. I told Geng Zhongcheng that as long as I bought two million dendrobium grains, the Qiang people would not dare to do anything rashly.
Geng Zhongcheng asked to buy one million dendrobium, but in the end he only got 400,000 dendrobium.
Yiqu spent nearly half of his time on two missions.
After making two mistakes, the Qiang people dared to rebel.
A slight error, a thousand miles difference, has become a fact.
Nowadays, the war is going on for a long time and cannot be ended. If the barbarians from all over the world suddenly launch an uprising and take advantage of the opportunity, even the most resourceful people will not be able to deal with the aftermath well. After all, only the Qiang people need to worry!
I am determined to die to defend it. A wise monarch can give loyal advice.
So he submitted a memorial to the garrison and said:
I have heard that the army is used to demonstrate morality and punish evil. Therefore, when victory is achieved with troops, blessings will appear on the inside. Therefore, we must be cautious in doing so.
The food and grass for the officers, soldiers, horses, and oxen led by the minister requires 199,630 hu of grain, 1,693 hu of salt, and 250,286 shi of hay and straw in a month.
As long as the war cannot be lifted, the corvee will not stop.
They are also afraid that other barbarians and Di will suddenly have unforeseen events, which will happen together and become a worry for the Mingjun. This is really not a strategy that the imperial court has formulated in the past to defeat the enemy.
Moreover, the Qiang enemy is easy to defeat with tactics but difficult to crush with force, so I think it is unfavorable to attack.
It is estimated that from Linqiang to Haodian in the east, the old fields and public fields of Qiang enemies, and the land that has not been cultivated by the common people, can reach more than two thousand hectares, and most of the post stations in the middle are ruined and dilapidated.
Not long ago, my subordinates sent soldiers into the mountains, cut down more than 60,000 large and small trees, and placed them near the water.
The minister hopes to withdraw the cavalry, leaving behind commuted prisoners and conscripted soldiers, as well as infantrymen from Huaiyang and Runan, and personal entourage of officers and soldiers. There are 10,281 people in total, with 27,363 hu of grain and 308 hu of salt per month, stationed in key places.
Once the ice melts, the wood can be transported down, the post station can be repaired, the ditches can be dredged, and the seventy bridges on the road west of Huanghou can be repaired so that they can lead to fresh water.
After farming begins, each person can be granted twenty acres of land.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
至四月草生，发郡骑及属国胡骑伉健各千，倅马什二，就草，为田者游兵。
以充入金城郡，益积畜，省大费。
今大司农所转谷至者，足支万人一岁食。
谨上田处及器用簿，唯陛下裁许。
上报曰： 皇帝问后将军，言欲罢骑兵万人留田，即如将军之计，虏当何时伏诛，兵当何时得决？
孰计其便，复奏。
充国上状曰：
臣闻帝王之兵，以全取胜，是以贵谋而贱战。
战而百胜，非善之善者也，故先为不可胜以待敌之可胜。
蛮夷习俗虽殊于礼义之国，然其欲避害就利，爱亲戚，畏死亡，一也。
今虏亡其美地荐草，愁子寄托远遁，骨肉心离，人有畔志，而明主般师罢兵，万人留田，顺天时，因地利，以待可胜之虏，虽未即伏辜，兵决可期月而望。
羌虏瓦解，前后降者万七百余人，及受言去者凡七十辈，此坐支解羌虏之具也。
臣谨条不出兵留田便宜十二事。
步兵九校，更士万人，留顿以为武备，因田致谷，威德并行，一也。
又因排折羌虏，令不得归肥饶之地，贫破其众，以成羌虏相畔之渐，二也。
居民得并田作，不失农业，三也。
军马一月之食，度支田士一岁，罢骑兵以省大费，四也。
至春省甲士卒，循河湟漕谷至临羌，以示羌虏，扬威武，传世折冲之具，五也，以闲暇时下所伐材，缮治邮亭，充入金城，六也。
translation: 
When the pasture grows in April, a thousand strong men each from the county cavalry and the barbarian cavalry from the tribes they belong to are recruited, with two-tenths of the auxiliary horses, to graze the grass and serve as a patrol for the people cultivating the fields.
Using the income from farming to enrich Jincheng County and increase savings can save a lot of money.
Now the grain brought by Da Sinong is enough to feed ten thousand people for a year.
I would like to submit the location of the farm and the account books of the equipment and supplies required, hoping that your Majesty will approve it.
The emperor wrote back and said: The emperor greets the general, you said that the retreating cavalry will leave 10,000 people to farm. If we follow the general's plan, when will the enemy be wiped out and the war be resolved?
Please consider its convenience carefully before reporting back to me.
Zhao Chongguo reported the situation and said:
I have heard that the emperor's army wins by being able to protect itself, so it attaches great importance to strategy and despises war.
Being able to win every battle is not the best, so we must first prevent the enemy from defeating us and then wait for the opportunity to defeat the enemy.
Although the customs of the barbarians are different from those of the countries of etiquette and justice, they are all the same in terms of seeking advantages and avoiding disadvantages, loving relatives, and fearing death.
Now that the enemy has lost its fertile land and lush grasslands, they are worried about living in a foreign land, far away from their homeland, separated from their flesh and blood, and everyone has a heart of betrayal. At this time, the wise monarch has withdrawn his troops and left tens of thousands of people to work in the fields. This is to follow the weather and take advantage of the geographical advantages to wait for the opportunity to defeat the enemy. Even if the enemy does not immediately avenge his crime, the war can be resolved within a year.
The Qiang enemy was disintegrated, and more than 10,700 people surrendered. There were also 70 groups who accepted my persuasion and left. These are the details of waiting for the Qiang enemy to be disbanded.
I would like to list twelve advantages of not sending out troops but staying in the fields.
The ninth infantry school, with a total of ten thousand officers and soldiers, stayed in the fields as an armed defense, relied on the fields to harvest grain, and exercised martial power and benevolence at the same time. This is the first point.
They also took the opportunity to crowd out the Qiang enemies and frustrate them, preventing them from returning to fertile areas. Due to poverty, they could not unite, and gradually formed a situation where the Qiang enemies rebelled against each other. This is the second point.
The third point is that local residents can farm together with the soldiers who are stationed in the fields, without hindering the farmers' business.
A month's supply of food and fodder for the army and horses is estimated to be enough for the soldiers stationed in the fields for a year. Withdrawing the cavalry can save a lot of money. This is the fourth point.
In the spring, armed soldiers were inspected and grains were transported along the Yellow River and Huangshui River to the Qiang. This showed the Qiang enemies that vigorous use of force was a method that could be passed on to future generations to resist invasion. This is the fifth point. Use your free time to transport the felled trees to renovate the inn and enrich the golden city. This is the sixth point.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
兵出，乘危徼幸，不出，令反畔之虏窜于风寒之地，离霜露疾疫瘃堕之患，坐得必胜之道，七也。
亡经阻远追死伤之害，八也。
内不损威武之重，外不令虏得乘间之势，九也。
又亡惊动河南大开、小开使生它变之忧，十也。
治湟狭中道桥，令可至鲜水，以制西域，信威千里，从枕席上过师，十一也。
大费既省，繇役豫息，以戒不虞，十二也。
留屯田得十二便，出兵失十二利。
臣充国材下，犬马齿衰，不识长册，唯明诏博详公卿议臣采择。
上复赐报曰： 皇帝问后将军，言十二便，闻之。
虏虽未伏诛，兵决可期月而望，期月而望者，谓今冬邪？谓何时也？
将军独不计虏闻兵颇罢，且丁壮相聚，攻扰田者及道上屯兵，复杀略人民，将何以止之？
又大开、小开前言曰： 我告汉军先零所在，兵不往击，久留，得亡效五年时不分别人而并击我？
其意常恐。
今兵不出，得亡变生，与先零为一？
将军孰计复奏。
充国奏曰：
臣闻兵以计为本，故多算胜少算。
先零羌精兵今余下过七八千人，失地远客，分散饥冻。罕、开、莫须又颇暴略其赢弱畜产，畔还者不绝，皆闻天子明令相捕斩之赏。
臣愚以为虏破坏可日月冀，远在来春，故曰兵决可期月而望。
窃见北边自敦煌至辽东万一千五百余里，乘塞列隧有吏卒数千人，虏数大众攻之而不能害。
今留步士万人屯田，地势平易，多高山远望之便，部曲相保，为堑垒木樵，校联不绝，便兵弩，饬斗具。
烽火幸通，势及并力，以逸待劳，兵之利者也。
translation: 
The army goes out to attack and takes risks to achieve victory by chance. If the army does not attack, the rebellious enemy will flee to the wind, frost and cold land, suffering from frostbite, frostbite and broken fingers. Sitting still can achieve the point of victory. This is the seventh point.
There is no danger of death or injury caused by dangers and long-distance pursuits. This is the eighth point.
Do not damage the country's mighty image internally, and do not allow the enemy to take advantage of it externally. This is the ninth point.
It also did not disturb the Dakai and Xiaokai Qiang people south of the Yellow River, causing them to cause trouble. This is the tenth point.
The bridge on the middle road in Huanghou was built so that it could reach Xianshui, so as to control the Western Region and spread its power thousands of miles. Marching is as easy as crossing a pillow mat. This is the eleventh point.
Huge expenses have been saved, and the people can be exempted from corvee and used to be wary of unexpected events. This is the twelfth point.
You can get twelve benefits by staying in the field, but you will lose these twelve benefits by sending troops.
Your Majesty, Zhao Chongguo, has low talents, is old and frail, and does not understand long-term strategies. I hope that your Majesty will order the ministers to discuss your words extensively and carefully, and then choose to adopt them.
The emperor sent another letter and replied: The emperor greets the general, I already know the twelve benefits you mentioned.
Although the enemy has not been eliminated, it is expected that the war will be over within a year. Just one year, does it mean this winter, or some other time?
Doesn't the general consider that the enemy knows that after withdrawing a large number of troops, he will gather strong men to attack the people who are harassing the farmers and the soldiers stationed on the road, and will burn, kill and plunder the people again? What will he do to stop the enemy?
In addition, Dakai and Xiaokai Qiang had previously said: We reported the location of Xianling to the Han army. If the Han army did not go to attack and stayed behind for a long time, would they attack us together without distinguishing between them in the fifth year of Benshi?
There is always fear in their hearts.
Now that the army is not dispatched, will something happen to them and become one with Xian Ling?
I hope the general will consider it carefully before reporting.
Zhao Chongguo said:
I have heard that strategy is the basis of military use, so those who have more strategies will defeat those who have less strategies.
The elite troops of the Xianling Qiang now have no more than seven or eight thousand people left. They have lost their land and are living in distant places. They are falling apart and suffering from hunger and cold. The Han, Kai, and Mosu Qiang often rob their elderly and weak people, livestock, and property. There is an endless stream of people who rebel and surrender. They all know that the emperor has made it clear that those who capture and kill each other will be rewarded.
I believe that we can wait for months to defeat the enemy, and it will be next spring at the latest. Therefore, the war can be resolved within a year.
I saw that in the north, which is more than 11,500 miles from Dunhuang to Liaodong, there are only a few thousand officers and soldiers guarding the fortresses and beacon towers along the border. The enemy has repeatedly used large forces to attack, but to no avail.
Now there are 10,000 infantry soldiers left to work in the fields. The terrain is quite flat, and there are many high mountains for the convenience of distant views, so that the various troops can protect each other. They build Haogou barriers and watchtowers. The forts are continuously connected with each other. Weapons, swords and crossbows are prepared, and war equipment is refurbished.
When the beacon fire is launched, the troops are in sync with each other, the strength is concentrated, and people are at ease waiting for work. This is a favorable condition for the use of troops.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
臣愚以为屯田内有亡费之利，外有守御之备。
骑兵虽罢，虏见万人留田为必禽之具，其土崩归德，宜不久矣。
从今尽三月，虏马赢瘦，必不敢捐其妻子于他种中，远涉河山而来为寇。
又见屯田之士精兵万人，终不敢复将其累重还归故地。
是臣之愚计，所以度虏且必瓦解其处，不战而自破之册也。
至于虏小寇盗，时杀人民，其原未可卒禁。
臣闻战不必胜，不苟接刃；攻不必取，不苟劳众。
诚令兵出，虽不能灭先零，亶能令虏绝不为小寇，则出兵可也。
即今同是而释坐胜之道，从乘危之势，往终不见利，空内自罢敝，贬重而自损，非所以视蛮夷也。
又大兵一出，还不可复留，湟中亦未可空，如是，徭役复发也。
且匈奴不可不备，乌桓不可不忧。
今久转运烦费，倾我不虞之用以澹一隅，臣愚以为不便。
校尉临众幸得承威德，奉厚币，拊循众羌，谕以明诏，宜皆乡风。
虽其前辞尝曰 得亡效五年 ，宜亡它心，不足以故出兵。
臣窃自惟念。奉诏出塞，引军远击，穷天子之精兵，散车甲于山野，虽亡尺寸之功，媮得避慊之便，而亡后咎余责，此人臣不忠之利，非明主社稷之福也。
臣幸得奋精兵，讨不义，久留天诛，罪当万死。
陛下宽仁，未忍加诛，令臣数得熟计。
愚臣伏计孰甚，不敢避斧钺之诛，昧死陈愚，唯陛下省察。
充国奏每上，辄下公卿议臣。
初是充国计者什三，中什五，最后什八。
translation: 
The minister believes that farming has the advantage of not spending military expenses internally, and it also provides preparations for defensive resistance externally.
Even if the cavalry is withdrawn, if the enemy sees that 10,000 people are left in garrison as a necessary measure to capture the enemy, it will not be long before they collapse and surrender to the court.
It will not be more than three months from now. The enemy's horses are weak and they will not dare to leave their wives and children among other tribes and travel long distances across mountains and rivers to invade.
He also saw that there were 10,000 elite soldiers stationed in the field, and in the end they did not dare to return to the old place with their wives and children.
This strategy of my ministers is based on the expectation that the enemy will collapse on the spot and be defeated without fighting.
As for the enemy's invasion by small groups and killing people from time to time, this cannot be completely prohibited in the first place.
I have heard that if the war cannot be won with certainty, do not engage in casual combat; if the attack cannot guarantee victory, do not mobilize large numbers of troops.
If we really order the troops to attack, even if they cannot eliminate Xian Zero, if they can prevent the enemy from carrying out small-scale invasions, then it is okay to send troops.
Now it is also impossible to prohibit the enemy from invading on a small scale, and then give up the method of waiting for victory and take risks. Going forward will not be beneficial in the end, but it will make the internal empty and exhaust yourself, reduce the strength and deplete yourself. This is not a good way to demonstrate to the barbarians.
In addition, once the soldiers attack, they cannot stay when they come back, but the Huangzhong area has to defend. If this happens, the corvee will have to be requisitioned again.
Moreover, the Xiongnu could not help but be on guard, and the Wuhuan could not help but worry.
At present, long-term transportation costs a lot, and I think it is inappropriate to use up the country's war preparation savings to supply one place.
The school captain Lin Zhong was fortunate enough to be able to uphold his mighty virtue, carry abundant money, appease various Qiang tribes, and issue edicts. The Qiang people should all follow the instructions.
Even if they said some time ago, will it be like the first five years? , and there should be no other ideas. It is not worth sending troops for this reason.
I thought privately, followed the imperial edict, went out to the fortress, led an expedition, exhausted the emperor's elite troops, and scattered the chariots, horses, and weapons in the mountains and fields. Even if there was no merit, I could still get the benefit of avoiding suspicion, and there would be no subsequent fault or punishment. This would only be beneficial to the ministers who were not loyal to their duties, but not beneficial to the emperor or the country.
I am fortunate enough to be able to lead elite troops to fight against injustice, but I have delayed God's punishment for the enemy for a long time. I deserve death.
Your Majesty is merciful and merciful, and cannot bear to kill me, so I have been able to consider it carefully several times.
Now that my plan has been formulated, I dare not avoid the punishment of axes and cymbals, risking my life to state my foolish opinions, and hope that your majesty will understand clearly.
Every time Zhao Chongguo's memorial was reported, it would be handed over to the ministers for discussion.
Three out of ten people agreed with Zhao Chongguo's strategy at the beginning, five out of ten in the middle, and eight out of ten in the end.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
有诏诘前言不便者，皆顿首服。
丞相魏相曰： 臣愚不习兵事利害，后将军数画军册，其言常是，臣任其计可必用也。
上于是报充国曰： 皇帝问后将军，上书言羌虏可胜之道，今听将军，将军计善。
其上留屯田及当罢者人马数。
将军强食，慎兵事，自爱！
上以破羌、强弩将军数言当击，又用充国屯田处离散，恐虏犯之，于是两从其计，诏两将军与中郎将卬出击。
强弩出，降四千余人，破羌斩首二千级，中郎将卬斩首降者亦二千余级，而充国所降复得五千余人。
诏罢兵，独充国留屯田。
明年五月，充国奏言： 羌本可五万人军，凡斩首七千六百级，降者三万一千二百人，溺河湟饥饿死者五六千人，定计遗脱与煎巩、黄羝俱亡者不过四千人。
羌靡忘等自诡必得，请罢屯兵。
奏可。充国振旅而还。
所善浩星赐迎说充国，曰： 众人皆以破羌、强弩出击，多斩首获降，虏以破坏。
然有识者以为虏势穷困，兵虽不出，必自服矣。
将军即见，宜归功于二将军出击，非愚臣所及。
如此，将军计未失也。
充国曰： 吾年老矣，爵位已极，岂嫌伐一时事以欺明主哉！
兵势，国之大事，当为后法。
老臣不以余命一为陛下明言兵之利害，卒死，谁当复言之者？
卒以其意对。
上然其计，罢遣辛武贤归酒泉太守官，充国复为后将军卫尉。
其秋，羌若零、离留、且种、皃库共斩先零大豪犹非、杨玉首，及诸豪弟泽、阳雕、良皃、靡忘皆帅煎巩、黄羝之属四千余人降汉。
translation: 
Emperor Shao questioned those who had previously said that Zhao Chongguo's strategy was not good, and they all kowtowed and admitted their mistakes.
Prime Minister Wei Xiang said: I am stupid and do not understand the military interests. The general made military strategies several times, and what he said was always correct. I guarantee that his strategies will be feasible.
Emperor Xuan then wrote back to Zhao Chongguo and said: The emperor greets the general, you wrote a letter explaining how the Qiang enemy can be defeated. Now listen to the general. The general's strategy is good.
Please report to me the number of men and horses left behind in the fields and those who should be withdrawn.
General, please eat more, use troops, be kind and take care of yourself!
Because the two generals Po Qiang and Qiannu said many times that they should attack, and because Zhao Chongguo's farming areas were scattered and he was afraid of being invaded by the enemy, he adopted their two strategies at the same time and ordered the two generals and Zhonglang General Zhao Yin to send troops to attack the enemy.
General Qiangnu's troops attacked and surrendered more than 4,000 enemies. General Poqiang sent troops to kill 2,000 enemies. General Zhao Yin of Zhonglang also killed more than 2,000 enemies and captured more than 2,000 enemies. Zhao Chongguo captured more than 5,000 people.
The imperial edict ordered the troops to withdraw, leaving only Zhao Chongguo to farm.
In May of the following year, Zhao Chongguo reported: The Qiang people originally had an army of about 50,000 people. A total of 7,600 people were killed, 31,200 people surrendered, and 5,000 or 6,000 people drowned in the Yellow River and Huangshui River or died of starvation. In the end, it is estimated that no more than 4,000 people escaped and fled with Jian Gong and Huang Qiang.
Qiang Miwang and others ordered themselves to capture them and requested that the troops stationed in the field be withdrawn.
The memorial was approved, and Zhao Chongguo reorganized his army and returned.
Zhao Chongguo's friend Hao Xingci greeted him and persuaded him: Everyone thought that the two generals Poqiang and Qiannu sent troops to attack the enemy, killed a large number of them and surrendered, so that the enemy was eliminated.
But knowledgeable people believe that the enemy is extremely weak, and even if the army does not attack, the enemy will surely surrender on its own.
If the general sees the emperor, it should be attributed to the attack of the two generals, saying that the two generals are not comparable to the ministers.
If this is the case, the general's plan is not at fault.
Zhao Chongguo said: I am old and my title has reached its peak. How can I still deceive the wise monarch because of my temporary merits to avoid suspicion?
The military situation is a major national event and should be imitated by future generations.
If the old minister does not clearly tell His Majesty the stakes of using the army during his lifetime, who can tell him again if he suddenly dies?
Finally, he dealt with the emperor according to his own opinions.
The emperor agreed to his plan, dismissed and sent Xin Wuxian back to his post as prefect of Jiuquan, and Zhao Chongguo was appointed as the rear general and guard.
In the autumn of that year, the Qiang people Ruoling, Liliu, Qizhong, and Erku killed the Xianling leaders Youfei and Yang Yu, and together with other leaders Di Ze, Yang Diao, Liang'er, and Mi Wang, they led more than 4,000 people from the Jiangong and Huanghuang tribes to surrender to the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
封若零、弟泽二人为帅众王，离留、且种二人为侯，皃库为君，阳雕为言兵侯，良皃为君，靡忘为献牛君。
初置金城属国以处降羌。
诏举可护羌校尉者，时充国病，四府举辛武贤小弟汤。
充国遽起奏： 汤使酒，不可典蛮夷。不如汤兄临众。
时，汤已拜受节，有诏更用临众。
后临众病免，五府复举汤，汤数醉酉句羌人，羌人反畔，卒如充国之言。
初，破羌将军武贤在军中时与中郎将卬宴语，卬道： 车骑将军张安世始尝不快上，上欲诛之，卬家将军以为安世本持橐簪笔事孝武帝数十年，见谓忠谨，宜全度之。
安世用是得免。
及充国还言兵事，武贤罢归故官，深恨，上书告卬泄省中语。
卬坐禁止而入至充国莫府司马中乱屯兵，下吏，自杀。
充国乞骸骨，赐安车驷马、黄金六十斤，罢就第。
朝庭每有四夷大议，常与参兵谋，问筹策焉。
年八十六，甘露二年薨，谥曰壮侯。
传子至孙钦，钦尚敬武公主。
主亡子，主教钦良人习诈有身，名它人子。
钦薨，子岑嗣侯，习为太夫人。
岑父母求钱财亡已，忿恨相告。
岑坐非子免，国除。
元始中，修功臣后，复封充国曾孙伋为营平侯。
初，充国以功德与霍光等列，画未央宫。
成帝时，西羌尝有警，上思将帅之臣，追美充国，乃召黄门郎杨雄即充国图画而颂之，曰：
明灵惟宣，戎有先零。
先零昌狂，侵汉西疆。
translation: 
Ruo Ling and Di Ze were named Shuai Wang, Liliu and Qizhong were named Marquis, Erku was named Lord, Yang Diao was named Yan Binghou, Liang Er was named Lord, and Mi Wang was named Xian Niu Lord.
Wen Shi set up the Jincheng vassal state to arrange the surrender of the Qiang people.
Shaoling elected people who could serve as captains to protect the Qiang. At this time, Zhao Chongguo fell ill, and all the four prefectures recommended Xin Wuxian's younger brother Xin Tang.
Zhao Chongguo got up in a hurry and reported: "Xin Tang is drunk and cannot be in charge of barbarian affairs. It is better to send Xin Tang's brother Xin Linzhong."
At that time, Xin Tang had already accepted Fu Jie and issued an edict to change his position to Xin Linzhong.
Later, Xin Linzhong was dismissed from office due to illness, and the Five Governments again recommended Xin Tang. Xin Tang often got drunk and cursed the Qiang people, so the Qiang people rebelled, and finally agreed to what Zhao Chongguo said.
At first, Po Qiang general Xin Wuxian often chatted with Zhao Yin, the Zhonglang general in the army. Zhao Yin said: Chariot general Zhang Anshi was not in line with Emperor Xuan's wishes at the beginning, and Emperor Xuan wanted to kill him. My general believed that Zhang Anshi had served Emperor Xiaowu for decades with a book bag in his hand and a brush in his hair. He was recognized as loyal and prudent, so he should be preserved.
Zhang Anshi was able to avoid death because of this.
When Zhao Chongguo came back and discussed military affairs with the emperor, Xin Wuxian was dismissed from office and returned to his original post. Feeling deeply resentful, he wrote a letter to sue Zhao Yin for leaking what was said in the palace.
Zhao Yin violated the ban and entered Sima Zhong, the shogunate of Zhao Chongguo, and disrupted the military regulations. He was sent to a judge for trial. He committed suicide.
Zhao Chongguo asked for retirement and was given a four-horse carriage, sixty pounds of gold, and was relieved of his duties and returned home.
Whenever there was a major discussion about Sebari, the imperial court often invited him to participate in military planning and asked him about plans and strategies.
He died at the age of eighty-six, two years after Ganlu died, and was given the title Zhuanghou.
The title was passed from his son to his grandson Zhao Qin, who married Princess Jingwu.
The princess had no son, so she asked Zhao Qin's husband Xi to pretend that she was pregnant, but in fact she was someone else's son.
Zhao Qin died, his son Zhao Cen succeeded to the throne, and Xi became the dowager.
Zhao Cen's biological parents had no end to their demands for money, so they resentfully reported on each other.
Zhao Cen was exempted from his title and fiefdom because he was not his biological son.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the descendants of the heroes were reborn and Zhao Ji, the great-grandson of Zhao Chongguo, was granted the title of Yinghuhou.
At the beginning, Zhao Chongguo painted his portrait in Weiyang Palace because his merits and virtues were comparable to Huo Guang's.
When he became emperor, there was an alarm in Xiqiang. The emperor missed the generals and ministers, commemorated and praised Zhao Chongguo, so he summoned Yang Xiong, a man from Huangmen, to write a eulogy next to Zhao Chongguo's portrait:
In the era of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty who was wise and holy, there were Xianling in Rong and Di.
Xian Ling was rampant and invaded the western frontier of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
汉命虎臣，惟后将军，整我六师，是讨是震。
既临其域，谕以威德，有守矜功，谓之弗克。
请奋其旅，于罕之羌，天子命我，从之鲜阳。
营平守节，屡奏封章，料敌制胜，威谋靡亢。
遂克西戎，还师于京，鬼方宾服，罔有不庭。
昔周之宣，有方有虎，诗人歌功，乃列于《雅》。
在汉中兴，充国作武，赳赳桓桓，亦绍厥后。
充国为后将军，徙杜陵。
辛观自羌军还后七年，复为破羌将军，征乌孙至敦煌，后不出，征未到，病卒。
子庆忌至大官。
辛庆忌字子真，少以父任为右校丞，随长罗侯常惠屯田乌孙赤谷城，与歙侯战，陷陈却敌。
惠奏其功，拜为侍郎，迁校尉，将吏士屯焉耆国。
还为谒者，尚未知名。
元帝初，补金域长史，举茂材，迁郎中、车骑将，朝廷多重之者，转为校尉，迁张掖太守，徙酒泉，所在著名。
成帝初，征为光禄大夫，迁左曹中郎将，至执金吾。
始武贤与赵充国有隙，后充国家杀辛氏，至庆忌为执金吾，坐子杀赵氏，左迁酒泉太守。
岁余，大将军王凤荐庆忌： 前在两郡著功迹，征入，历位朝廷，莫不信乡。
质行正直，仁勇得众心，通于兵事，明略威重行国柱石。
父破羌将军武贤显名前世，有威西夷。
臣凤不宜久处庆忌之右。
乃复征为光禄大夫、执金吾。
数年，坐小法左迁云中太守，复征为光禄勋。
时，数有灾异，丞相司直何武上封事曰： 虞有宫之奇，晋献不寐；卫青在位，淮南寝谋。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty appointed only valiant ministers, including the Hou General. He led the six divisions of the Han Dynasty to attack the rebels, causing a great earthquake in the world.
After arriving in the Qiang region, Xiao Yiwei was so powerful that some governors were greedy for credit and said that he could not win.
Asking for orders to lead the army to Hanqiang, the emperor ordered Zhao Chongguo to follow the army to the north bank of Xianshui.
The strong marquis of Yingping adhered to his integrity and played seal seals several times. He expected the enemy to be as confident as possible in winning, and no one dared to stop him with his wisdom and courage.
Finally defeated Xirong and returned to the capital. The ghosts surrendered, and no tribe did not come to see him.
In the past, when King Xuan of the Western Zhou Dynasty came, there were Fang Shu and Shao Hu. The poets sang their praises and were listed in Daya.
The Han Dynasty was revived, Zhao Chongguo showed his power and majesty, and Uncle Fang Shao Hu had a successor.
Zhao Lichong was promoted to the post general and was moved to Zhuduo.
Seven years had passed since Xin Wuzhi returned from the mission and led troops. He was re-appointed as the general of Po Qiang. He conquered Wusun and arrived at Dunhuang. He did not go out again. He died of illness before the emperor summoned him.
His son Xin Qingji was appointed as the highest official.
Xin Qingji, given the courtesy name Zizhen, was appointed Youxiaocheng when he was young because of his father's relationship. He followed Changluo Hou Changhui to farm in Wusun Chigu City, fought with Shehou, and charged into battle to repel the enemy.
Chang Hui reported his achievements and was promoted to the rank of Shilang. He was promoted to the rank of captain and led the officers and soldiers to station in the Yanqi Kingdom.
After returning, he was appointed as a visitor, but he was not well-known yet.
In the early years of the Yuan Dynasty, he was appointed as the chief historian of Jincheng, was recommended as Maocai, and was promoted to the rank of doctor, chariot and cavalry general. There were many people in the court who valued him. Later, he was appointed as a school captain, promoted to the governor of Zhangye, and moved to Jiuquan. The places he passed became famous.
At the beginning of his reign, Xin Qingji was recruited and appointed as Doctor Guanglu. He was promoted to Zuocao Zhonglang general until he held Jinwu.
Originally there was a conflict between Xin Wuxian and Zhao Chongguo, and later someone in Zhao Chong's state was killed. When Xin's family died in Xinqing, the official was Zhijinwu. Because his son committed a crime by killing the Zhao family, he was demoted to the prefect of Jiuquan.
More than a year later, General Wang Huang recommended Xin Qingji. He had made outstanding achievements as an official in the two counties. After being recruited to the imperial court, he held various palace positions. No one distrusted and admired him.
His character, integrity, kindness and courage are deeply loved by everyone. Moreover, he is proficient in military affairs, understands strategy, has great prestige, and can serve as the pillar of the country.
His father, Poqiang general Xin Wuxian, was very famous in the previous generation and was powerful in Western Yi.
Your Majesty Wang Feng should not stay in Xin Qingji's position for a long time.
So Xin Qingji was recruited again and appointed as Guanglu Doctor and Zhijinwu.
A few years later, he was demoted to Yunzhong Prefect for committing a minor crime, and was later re-recruited as Guang Luxun.
At that time, there were many disasters and mutations. Prime Minister Sizhi He Wufeng wrote in a book: Due to the strange palace in Yu State, Duke Xiang of Jin could not sleep; when Wei Qing was on the throne, the King of Huainan had to stop his conspiracy.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
故贤人立朝，折冲厌难，胜于亡形。
《司马法》曰： 天下虽安，忘战必危。 夫将不豫设，则亡以应卒；士不素厉，则难使死使。
是以先帝建列将之官，近戚主内，异姓距外，故奸轨不得萌动而破灭，诚万世之长册也。
光禄勋庆忌行义修正，柔毅敦厚，谋虑深远。
前在边郡，数破敌获虏，外夷莫不闻。
乃者大异并见，未有其应。
加以兵革久寝。
《春秋》大灾未至而豫御之，庆忌家在爪牙官以备不虞。
其后拜为右将军、诸吏、散骑、给事中，岁余徙为左将军。
庆忌居处恭俭，食饮被服尤节约，然性好舆马，号为鲜明，唯是为奢。
为国虎臣，遭世承平，匈奴、西域亲附，敬其威信。
年老卒官。长子通为护羌校尉，中子遵函谷关都尉，少子茂水衡都尉出为郡守，皆有将帅之风。
宗族支属至二千石者十余人。
元始中，安汉公王莽秉政，见庆忌本大将军凤所成，三子皆能，欲亲厚之。
是时，莽方立威柄，用甄丰、甄邯以自助，丰、邯新贵，威震朝廷。
水衡都尉茂自见名臣子孙，兄弟并列，不甚诎事两甄。
时，平帝幼，外家卫氏不得在京师，而护羌校尉通长子次兄素与帝从舅卫子伯相善，两人俱游侠，宾客甚盛。
及吕宽事起，莽诛卫氏。
两甄构言诸辛阴与卫子伯为心腹，有背恩不说安汉公之谋。
于是司直陈崇举奏其宗亲陇西辛兴等侵陵百姓，威行州郡。
莽遂按通父子、遵、茂兄弟及南郡太守辛伯等，皆诛杀之。
辛氏繇是废。
translation: 
Therefore, when a wise person is in the court, he can defeat the conspiracy, make the enemy more difficult, and defeat the enemy invisible.
"Sima Law" says: Even if the world is stable, it will be very dangerous if war is forgotten. If generals do not make arrangements in advance, they will not be able to cope with sudden difficulties; if soldiers are not strictly trained in peacetime, they cannot be allowed to fight the enemy to death.
Therefore, the late emperor established the official positions of various generals, with close relatives in charge of the internal affairs, and people with foreign surnames in charge of the external affairs. Therefore, evil and evil behaviors cannot sprout and be destroyed. This is really a long-term solution for all generations.
Guang Luxun Xin Qingji practiced benevolence and righteousness and followed the right path. He was gentle, perseverant, honest, generous, and far-sighted.
In the past, in the border counties, Yi and Di knew that they had defeated and captured enemies several times.
Some very weird things have appeared some time ago, but they have not been confirmed.
In addition, there has been no military service for a long time.
"Spring and Autumn" says that great disasters must be prepared before they happen in the future, and it is advisable to occupy the position of a military general in order to prepare for unexpected events.
After that, Xin Qingji was promoted to the right general, and the officials were sent to Shizhong. More than a year later, he was transferred to the left general.
Xin Qingji usually behaved respectfully and modestly, and was particularly frugal in food and clothing, but he was fond of carriages and horses, and his signs were very eye-catching. This was the only luxury.
As a brave minister of the country, when the world was at peace, the Xiongnu and the Western Regions closely attached themselves to him and respected his prestige.
The eldest son Xin Tong was dismissed from office due to old age, and his eldest son Xin Tong was appointed as the captain of the Huqiang School. His second son Xin Zun was appointed as the captain of Hangu Pass.
There are more than ten relatives from the side branches of the clan who are worth two thousand shi.
During the Yuanshi period, Prince Mang of Anhan controlled the government. Seeing that Xin Qingji was accomplished by General Wang Feng and that his three sons were very capable, he wanted to be close to him and treat him favorably.
At this time, Wang Mang had just established his authority and appointed Zhen Feng and Zhen Han to help him. Zhen Feng and Zhen Han were newly prominent and their power shocked the court.
Xin Mao, the captain of Shuiheng, thought that he was the descendant of a famous official. Since his brothers were both in high positions, it would not be difficult for him to serve his two wives.
Emperor Ping was young at that time, and his maternal grandfather's Wei family could not live in the capital. Brother Xinci, the eldest son of Xintong, the captain of the Qiang Guard, was usually very close to Emperor Ping's cousin Wei Zibo. Both of them had a knight-errant demeanor and had many guests.
When Lu Kuan's incident happened, Wang Mang killed the Wei family.
The two princes falsely accused the Xin brothers of secretly colluding with Wei Zibo and plotting to betray their kindness and dissatisfy Duke Anhan.
So Si Zhi, Chen Chong, reported that the Xin clan, Longxi Xinxing and others, violated and bullied the common people and were domineering in the prefectures and counties.
Wang Mang examined Xin Tong and his son, Xin Zun, Xin Mao brothers, and Xin Bo, the governor of Nanjun, and killed them all.
As a result, the Xin family declined.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
庆忌本狄道人，为将军，徙昌陵。
昌陵罢，留长安。
赞曰：秦、汉已来，山东出相，山西出将。
秦时将军白起，郿人；王翦，频阳人。
汉兴，郁郅王围、甘延寿，义渠公孙贺、傅介子，成纪李广、李蔡，杜陵苏建、苏武，上邽上宫桀、赵充国，襄武廉褒，狄道辛武贤、庆忌，皆以勇武显闻。
苏、辛父子著节，此其可称列者也，其余不可胜数。
何则？
山西天水、陇西、安定、北地处势迫近羌胡，民俗修习战备，高上勇力鞍马骑射。
故《秦诗》曰： 王于兴师，修我甲兵，与子皆行。
其风声气俗自古而然，今之歌谣慷慨，风流犹存耳。
translation: 
Xin Qingji was originally from Didao County. After becoming a general, he moved to Changling.
After Changling was revoked, he stayed in Chang'an.
Zan said: Since the Qin and Han Dynasties, prime ministers have always appeared from Yishu on Mount Tai, and generals have often appeared from the west of Mount Tai.
General Bai Qi of the Qin Dynasty was from the county; Wang Jian was from Pinyang.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, Wang Wei and Gan Yanshou of Yuzhi, Gongsun He and Fu Jiezi of Yiqu, Li Guang and Li Cai of Chengji, Su Jian and Su Wu of Duling, Shangguan Jie and Zhao Chongguo of Shangbang, Lian Bao of Xiangwu, Xin Wuxian and Xin Qingji of Didao are all famous for their bravery and might.
Su and Xin father and son are both known for their integrity. This is something they can praise, and the rest are countless.
why is that?
Tianshui, Longxi, Anding, Beidi and other places to the west of Mount Tai are very close to the Qiang and Hu people. The folk customs teach armed war preparation and advocate bravery, horseback riding and archery.
Therefore, there is a "Qin Poetry" that says: If the king wants to fight, he will prepare his armor and weapons and go out with you.
It can be seen that their customs have been like this since ancient times. Today's songs sound impassioned, but the old style of singing is still there.


