Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏豹者，故魏诸公子也。
其兄魏咎，故魏时封为宁陵君。
秦灭魏，迁咎为家人。
陈胜之起王也，咎往从之。
陈王使魏人周市徇魏地，魏地已下，欲相与立周市为魏王。周市曰： 天下昬乱，忠臣乃见。
今天下共畔秦，其义必立魏王後乃可。
齐、赵使车各五十乘，立周市为魏王。
市辞不受，迎魏咎於陈。
五反，陈王乃遣立咎为魏王。
章邯已破陈王，乃进兵击魏王於临济。魏王乃使周市出请救於齐、楚。
齐、楚遣项它、田巴将兵随市救魏。
章邯遂击破杀周市等军，围临济。
咎为其民约降。
约定，咎自烧杀。
魏豹亡走楚。楚怀王予魏豹数千人，复徇魏地。
项羽已破秦，降章邯。
豹下魏二十馀城，立豹为魏王。
豹引精兵从项羽入关。
汉元年，项羽封诸侯，欲有梁地，乃徙魏王豹於河东，都平阳，为西魏王。
汉王还定三秦，渡临晋，魏王豹以国属焉，遂从击楚於彭城。
汉败，还至荥阳，豹请归视亲病，至国，即绝河津畔汉。
汉王闻魏豹反，方东忧楚，未及击，谓郦生曰： 缓颊往说魏豹，能下之，吾以万户封若。
郦生说豹。
豹谢曰： 人生一世间，如白驹过隙耳。
今汉王慢而侮人，骂詈诸侯群臣如骂奴耳，非有上下礼节也，吾不忍复见也。
於是汉王遣韩信击虏豹於河东，传诣荥阳，以豹国为郡。
汉王令豹守荥阳。
楚围之急，周苛遂杀魏豹。
彭越者，昌邑人也，字仲。
translation: 
Wei Bao was originally the son of the Wei Kingdom during the Six Kingdoms period.
His elder brother is Wei Jiu, who was named Lord Ningling when he was in Wei State.
After the Qin State destroyed the Wei State, he was exiled to other places and became a commoner.
Chen Sheng rebelled and proclaimed himself king, and Wei Jiu followed him.
King Chen sent Zhou Shi, a native of Wei, to lead troops to seize the land of Wei. After Wei was captured, everyone discussed with each other and wanted to make Zhou Shi the king of Wei. Zhou Shi said: Only when the world is in chaos can loyal ministers be revealed.
Now that the whole world is rebelling against Qin, morally speaking, we must support the descendants of King Wei.
Qi and Zhao each sent fifty chariots, hoping to establish Zhoushi as the king of Wei.
Zhou Shi refused to accept the offer and sent people to Chen County to meet Wei Jiu.
After five trips in total, King Chen agreed to send Wei Jiu back and establish him as King of Wei.
Not long after Zhang Han defeated King Chen, he marched to Linji to attack King Wei. King Wei sent Zhou Shi to Qi and Chu to request reinforcements.
Qi and Chu sent Xiang Ta and Tian Ba ​​to lead the army to follow Zhou City to rescue Wei.
Zhang Han actually defeated the reinforcements, killed Zhou Shi, and surrounded Linji.
Wei Jiu proposed conditions for surrender for the sake of the soldiers and people in the city.
After the negotiation was successful, Wei Jiu set himself on fire and died.
Wei Bao fled to Chu. King Huai of Chu gave Wei Bao thousands of troops and went back to capture Wei.
By this time Xiang Yu had defeated the Qin army and surrendered to Zhang Han.
Wei Bao captured more than 20 cities one after another. Xiang Yu made Wei Bao King of Wei.
Wei Bao led his elite troops and followed Xiang Yu into the pass.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu divided the princes among the feudal lords. He planned to occupy the Liang land, so he moved King Bao of Wei to Hedong, established his capital in Pingyang, and named him King of the Western Wei Dynasty.
The King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties and led his troops across the Yellow River from Linjin. Wei Bao surrendered the entire country to the King of Han and followed the King of Han to Pengcheng to attack the Chu army.
The king of Han was defeated and returned to Xingyang. Wei Bao asked for leave and went home to visit his mother's condition. After returning home, he immediately cut off the crossing of the Yellow River and betrayed the King of Han.
Although the King of Han heard the news of Wei Bao's rebellion, he was worried about the Chu State in the east. He had no time to attack him, so he said to Li Sheng: Go and persuade Wei Bao for me. If you can persuade him, I will make you the Marquis of Wanhu.
Li Sheng went to lobby Wei Bao.
Wei Bao politely refused and said: Life is as short as the shadow of the sun passing through the crack in the wall.
Now the King of Han is arrogant and insults others at will. He scolds the princes and ministers as if they were slaves. He has no etiquette at all. I can't bear to see him.
So the King of Han sent Han Xin to attack Wei Bao, captured Wei Bao in Hedong, and escorted him to Xingyang in a post car, and changed Wei Bao's original territory into three counties.
The King of Han ordered Wei Bao to garrison Xingyang.
When the Chu army tightened its siege, Zhou Ke killed Wei Bao.
Peng Yue was from Changyi, with the courtesy name Zhong.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
常渔钜野泽中，为群盗。
陈胜、项梁之起，少年或谓越曰： 诸豪桀相立畔秦，仲可以来，亦效之。
彭越曰： 两龙方斗，且待之。
居岁馀，泽间少年相聚百馀人，往从彭越，曰： 请仲为长。
越谢曰： 臣不原与诸君。
少年彊请，乃许。
与期旦日日出会，後期者斩。
旦日日出，十馀人後，後者至日中。
於是越谢曰： 臣老，诸君彊以为长。
今期而多後，不可尽诛，诛最後者一人。
令校长斩之。
皆笑曰： 何至是？请後不敢。
於是越乃引一人斩之，设坛祭，乃令徒属。
徒属皆大惊，畏越，莫敢仰视。
乃行略地，收诸侯散卒，得千馀人。
沛公之从砀北击昌邑，彭越助之。
昌邑未下，沛公引兵西。
彭越亦将其众居钜野中，收魏散卒。
translation: 
He often fishes in Juye Lake and joins a group of people to commit robberies.
Chen Sheng and Xiang Liang rose up, and a young man said to Peng Yue: Many heroes are rushing to raise banners to resist the violent Qin Dynasty. You can stand up, and we will follow their example.
Peng Yue said: Now is the time for the two dragons to fight, so let's wait.
More than a year later, more than a hundred young people from Zezhong gathered to follow Peng Yue and said, "Please be our leader."
Peng Yue refused and said: I don't want to work with you.
The young people persisted in their request, and he agreed.
Make an appointment with them to gather when the sun rises the next day, and those who are late will be beheaded.
When the sun came up the next day, more than ten people were late, and the last one didn't come until noon.
At that time, Peng Yue said apologetically: I am old and you insist on making me the leader.
Now, if there are many people late at the appointed time, we cannot behead all of them, but only the last person to come.
Order the captain to kill him.
Everyone laughed and said: "Why bother? I just don't dare to be late again from now on."
So Peng Yue took the last person who arrived and killed him. Set up an earthen altar, use human heads to offer sacrifices, and give orders to everyone who belongs to them.
Everyone was shocked and afraid of Peng Yue. No one dared to look up at him.
So he led everyone to seize the land and collected more than a thousand soldiers who had fled from the princes.
Peigong went north from Dang to attack Changyi, and Peng Yue assisted him.
Changyi was not captured, so Pei Gong led the army to march west.
Peng Yue also led his troops to garrison in Juye Ze to collect the fleeing soldiers of Wei.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
项籍入关，王诸侯，还归，彭越众万馀人毋所属。
汉元年秋，齐王田荣畔项王，乃使人赐彭越将军印，使下济阴以击楚。
楚命萧公角将兵击越，越大破楚军。
汉王二年春，与魏王豹及诸侯东击楚，彭越将其兵三万馀人归汉於外黄。
汉王曰： 彭将军收魏地得十馀城，欲急立魏後。
今西魏王豹亦魏王咎从弟也，真魏後。
乃拜彭越为魏相国，擅将其兵，略定梁地。
汉王之败彭城解而西也，彭越皆复亡其所下城，独将其兵北居河上。
汉王三年，彭越常往来为汉游兵，击楚，绝其後粮於梁地。
汉四年冬，项王与汉王相距荥阳，彭越攻下睢阳、外黄十七城。
项王闻之，乃使曹咎守成皋，自东收彭越所下城邑，皆复为楚。
越将其兵北走穀城。
汉五年秋，项王之南走阳夏，彭越复下昌邑旁二十馀城，得穀十馀万斛，以给汉王食。
汉王败，使使召彭越并力击楚。
越曰： 魏地初定，尚畏楚，未可去。
汉王追楚，为项籍所败固陵。
乃谓留侯曰： 诸侯兵不从，为之柰何？
留侯曰： 齐王信之立，非君王之意，信亦不自坚。
彭越本定梁地，功多，始君王以魏豹故，拜彭越为魏相国。
今豹死毋後，且越亦欲王，而君王不蚤定。
与此两国约：即胜楚，睢阳以北至穀城，皆以王彭相国；从陈以东傅海，与齐王信。
齐王信家在楚，此其意欲复得故邑。
君王能出捐此地许二人，二人今可致；即不能，事未可知也。
於是汉王乃发使使彭越，如留侯策。
translation: 
Xiang Ji entered Guanzhong and divided the feudal lords, and then returned. Peng Yue's army had grown to more than 10,000 people, but he had no one to belong to.
In the autumn of the first year of Han Dynasty, King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed King Xiang, so he sent someone to give General Peng Yue a seal and asked him to march to Jiyin to attack the Chu army.
The Chu army ordered Xiao Gongjiao to lead his troops to attack Peng Yue, but was severely defeated by Peng Yue.
In the spring of the second year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han, King Bao of Wei and various princes went east to attack Chu. Peng Yue led more than 30,000 troops to join the King of Han in Waihuang.
The King of Han said: General Peng has recovered more than a dozen cities in Wei and is eager to support the descendants of King Wei.
Today, King Bao of Wei is the cousin of King Jiu of Wei and a descendant of the real King of Wei.
He appointed Peng Yue as the Prime Minister of Wei State, monopolizing military power and pacifying the Liang Dynasty.
After the King of Han was defeated in Pengcheng, he retreated westward. At this time, Peng Yue abandoned all the cities he had captured and led his army alone to the north to station along the Yellow River.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue often traveled and sent troops on behalf of the Han Dynasty, attacked the Chu army, and cut off their supply of food and grass in Liang.
In the winter of the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang and King Han were at a stalemate in Xingyang, and Peng Yue captured seventeen cities including Suiyang and Waihuang.
When King Xiang heard the news, he sent Cao Jiu to garrison Chenggao, and he led his army eastward to recover the cities that Pengyue had conquered, returning them to Chu.
Peng Yue led his team north to Gucheng.
In the autumn of the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang's army retreated south to Xia Yang. Peng Yue captured more than 20 cities near Changyi and seized more than 100,000 bushels of grain, which was used as ration for the King of Han.
The king of Han was defeated and sent an envoy to ask Peng Yue to join forces to attack the Chu army.
Peng Yue said: Wei has just been pacified, but it is still afraid of the Chu army and cannot go there.
The king of Han raised his troops to pursue the Chu army, but was defeated by Xiang Ji in Guling.
He then said to Zhang Liang, who was waiting for him, "What should we do if the troops of the princes do not come to join the battle?"
Zhang Liang said: It is not your intention for King Han Xin of Qi to stand on his own feet, and Han Xin himself has no determination.
Peng Yue originally pacified the Liang region and made many military exploits. At first, because of Wei Bao, you only appointed Peng Yue as the prime minister of Wei.
Now, Wei Bao is dead and has no descendants, and Peng Yue also plans to become king, but you did not make a decision early.
You have made a private agreement with the two countries: if the Chu State is defeated, the land north of Suiyang to each city will be enfeoffed to Peng Xiangguo as king; the coastal area east of Chen will be enfeoffed to Qi King Han Xin.
The hometown of Qi King Han Xin was in Chu State, and his original intention was to regain his hometown.
If you can take out these lands and agree to divide them between the two of them, they can be recruited soon. Even if they cannot come, the development of the matter will not be completely despairing.
So the king of Han sent an envoy to Peng Yue to follow the plan of staying and waiting.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
使者至，彭越乃悉引兵会垓下，遂破楚。
项籍已死。
春，立彭越为梁王，都定陶。
六年，朝陈。
九年，十年，皆来朝长安。
十年秋，陈豨反代地，高帝自往击，至邯郸，徵兵梁王。
梁王称病，使将将兵诣邯郸。
高帝怒，使人让梁王。
梁王恐，欲自往谢。
其将扈辄曰： 王始不往，见让而往，往则为禽矣。
不如遂发兵反。
梁王不听，称病。
梁王怒其太仆，欲斩之。
太仆亡走汉，告梁王与扈辄谋反。
於是上使使掩梁王，梁王不觉，捕梁王，囚之雒阳。
有司治反形己具，请论如法。
上赦以为庶人，传处蜀青衣。
西至郑，逢吕后从长安来，欲之雒阳，道见彭王。彭王为吕后泣涕，自言无罪，原处故昌邑。
吕后许诺，与俱东至雒阳。
吕后白上曰： 彭王壮士，今徙之蜀，此自遗患，不如遂诛之。
妾谨与俱来。
於是吕后乃令其舍人彭越复谋反。
廷尉王恬开奏请族之。上乃可，遂夷越宗族，国除。
太史公曰：魏豹、彭越虽故贱，然已席卷千里，南面称孤，喋血乘胜日有闻矣。
translation: 
As soon as the envoy arrived, Peng Yue led all his troops to join the Han army at Gaixia and defeated the Chu army.
Xiang Ji is dead.
In the spring of that year, Pengyue was granted the title of King of Liang and his capital was established in Dingtao.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Peng Yue went to Chendi to meet with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
Nine or ten years later, they all came to Chang'an to see him.
In the autumn of the tenth year of the Han Dynasty, Chen Xi rebelled in Dai. Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty personally led his troops to crusade. When he arrived at Handan, he asked the King of Liang to recruit troops and horses.
The king of Liang said that he was ill and sent his generals and troops to Handan.
Emperor Gao was very angry and sent someone to blame King Liang.
King Liang was very frightened and planned to go to apologize in person.
His general Hu Zhe said: The king did not go in the first place, but he went after being scolded by him. If he did, he would be captured.
It would be better to send troops to rebel.
The king of Liang did not listen to his advice and still said that he was ill.
King Liang was very angry with his servant and planned to kill him.
The servant hurriedly fled to Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty and accused King Liang and Hu Zou of conspiring to rebel.
So the emperor sent envoys to attack King Liang unexpectedly. King Liang was unaware of this, so he arrested King Liang and imprisoned him in Luoyang.
After trial by the officials in charge, they believed that he had sufficient evidence for treason and requested the emperor to sentence him according to law.
The emperor pardoned him, deposed him as a commoner, and exiled him to Qingyi County, Shu.
When Peng Yue was escorted west to Zheng County, Empress Lu happened to be coming from Chang'an and was going to Luoyang. On the way, she met King Peng. King Peng cried to Empress Lu and personally told her that she was not guilty and hoped to return to her hometown Changyi.
Empress Lu agreed and went east to Luoyang with him.
Queen Lu stated to the emperor: King Peng is a heroic and brave man. Now that he is exiled to Shu, he will bring trouble to himself. It is better to kill him.
So, I brought him back with me.
Therefore, Empress Lu asked Peng Yue's retainers to accuse him of plotting to rebel again.
Tingwei Wang Tiankai submitted a petition to kill Peng Yue's family, and the emperor approved it, so Peng Yue was killed, his family was killed, and his feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: Although Wei Bao and Peng Yue were born in poverty, they occupied thousands of miles of vast land like rolled mats and became kings in the south. They followed the enemy's bloodstains to pursue victory, and their fame grew day by day.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
怀畔逆之意，及败，不死而虏囚，身被刑戮，何哉？
中材已上且羞其行，况王者乎！
彼无异故，智略绝人，独患无身耳。
得摄尺寸之柄，其云蒸龙变，欲有所会其度，以故幽囚而不辞云。
translation: 
With a rebellious intention, when he failed, he failed to kill himself to become famous, but he was willing to be a prisoner, and even himself was killed. Why?
People with average intelligence and above are ashamed of their behavior, let alone those who are kings!
The reason why they endured the humiliation was for no other reason than because their wisdom and strategy were superior to others, and they were only worried about not being able to save their own lives.
As long as they can hold a little bit of power, they can perform their actions as the political situation changes, so they are imprisoned without escaping.


