Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王亮张稷王莹王亮，字奉叔，琅邪临沂人，晋丞相导之六世孙也。祖偃，宋右光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
父攸，给事黄门侍郎。
亮以名家子，宋末选尚公主，拜驸马都尉、秘书郎，累迁桂阳王文学，南郡王友，秘书丞。
齐竟陵王子良开西邸，延才俊以为士林馆，使工图画其像，亮亦预焉。
迁中书侍郎、大司马从事中郎，出为衡阳太守。
以南土卑湿，辞不之官，迁给事黄门侍郎。
寻拜晋陵太守，在职清公有美政。
时齐明帝作相，闻而嘉之，引为领军长史，甚见赏纳。
及即位，累迁太子中庶子，尚书吏部郎，诠序著称，迁侍中。
建武末，为吏部尚书，是时尚书右仆射江祏管朝政，多所进拔，为士子所归。
亮自以身居选部，每持异议。
始亮未为吏部郎时，以祏帝之内弟，故深友祏，祏为之延誉，益为帝所器重；至是与祏昵之如初。
及祏遇诛，群小放命，凡所除拜，悉由内宠，亮更弗能止。
外若详审，内无明鉴，其所选用，拘资次而已，当世不谓为能。
频加通直散骑常侍、太子右卫率，为尚书右仆射、中护军。
既而东昏肆虐，淫刑已逞，亮倾侧取容，竟以免戮。
义师至新林，内外百僚皆道迎，其未能拔者，亦间路送诚款，亮独不遣。
及城内既定，独推亮为首。
亮出见高祖，高祖曰： 颠而不扶，安用彼相。
而弗之罪也。
霸府开，以为大司马长史、抚军将军、琅邪、清河二郡太守。
梁台建，授侍中、尚书令，固让不拜，乃为侍中、中书监，兼尚书令。
高祖受禅，迁侍中、尚书令、中军将军，引参佐命，封豫宁县公，邑二千户。
天监二年，转左光禄大夫，侍中、中军如故。
元日朝会万国，亮辞疾不登殿，设馔别省，而语笑自若。
数日，诏公卿问讯，亮无疾色，御史中丞乐蔼奏大不敬，论弃市刑。
诏削爵废为庶人。
四年夏，高祖宴于华光殿，谓群臣曰： 朕日昃听政，思闻得失。
translation: 
Wang Liang, courtesy name Fengshu, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was the sixth-generation grandson of Wang Dao, the prime minister of the Jin Dynasty. His grandfather Wang Yan was a doctor of Youguanglu and Kaifu Yitong in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Wang You, was the minister of Huangmen.
Because Wang Liang was a child of a famous family, he was selected as a mate to the princess in the late Song Dynasty. He was worshiped as Prince Consort and Secretary Lang. After being promoted many times, he served as King Wenxue of Guiyang, Wang You of Nanjun, and Secretary Cheng.
Prince Liang of Jingling of the Qi Dynasty opened a west residence, invited talented people to set up a scholar's hall, and sent craftsmen to paint their portraits. Wang Liang also participated in it.
Wang Liang moved to Zhongshu Shilang and Da Sima to work as Zhonglang and became the prefect of Hengyang.
Because the terrain in the south was low and humid, he declined to take up the post and moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen.
Soon Wang Liang became the governor of Jinling. He was honest and fair and had good political measures.
Emperor Qi Ming was the prime minister at that time. After hearing about it, he praised him and recommended him as the leader of the army. He was highly appreciated and accepted.
When Emperor Ming of Qi came to the throne, Wang Liang was moved to the crown prince's concubine, Shangshu Libu Lang. He was famous for explaining things clearly and clearly, and he was also moved to serve in the palace.
In the last years of Jianwu, Wang Liang served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. The right servant of this fashion book, She Jiang Zhe, managed the government affairs, recommended and selected talents many times, and became the home of scholars.
Wang Liang often insisted on dissent by virtue of his position in the election department.
When Wang Liang was not a member of the staff, he had a close friendship with Jiang Zhe because Jiang Zhe was the emperor's brother-in-law. Jiang Tuo spread his reputation, and Wang Liang was even more valued by the emperor. When he arrived in Japan, his relationship with Jiang Zhe had become distant and cold, but Jiang Zhe was still as close to him as before.
When Jiang Zhe was killed, all the villains violated the religious orders, and all appointments to officials and appointments were decided by their favorites, and Wang Liang was even less able to stop them.
It seems that they have been carefully scrutinized externally, but there is no obvious identification internally. Their selection and appointment are limited to status and rank. People in the world do not think they have ability.
Wang Liang frequently added Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi and the prince's right guard to lead the minister's right servant and guard the army.
Soon Shu Hun killed him arbitrarily and the torture was already rampant. Wang Liang relied on him to please him and was finally saved from being killed.
When the benevolent and righteous troops arrived in Xinlin, many officials inside and outside the imperial court went to the road to welcome him. Those who could not escape also sent people to express their sincere feelings through the small road, but Wang Liang did not go.
When the city was settled, everyone only elected Wang Liang as their leader.
Wang Liang came out to meet Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu said: If a blind man falls and does not help him, how can he need someone to help him?
But he was not convicted.
After the establishment of Bafu, Wang Liang served as the Grand Sima Changshi, the General of Fujun, and the Governor of Langye Qinghe County.
When Liangtai was established, Wang Liang was granted the title of Shizhong and Shangshu Ling, but he resolutely refused to accept the offer. He only served as Shizhong, Zhongshu Supervisor and concurrently as Shangshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication, and Wang Liang moved to serve as minister, minister, and general of the Chinese army. He was introduced to serve as an assistant, and he was granted the title of Duke of Yuning County and a settlement of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, Wang Liang was transferred to Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and his servants and soldiers were still as before.
On the first day of the first lunar month, he met with guests from all over the world in the court. Wang Liang refused to go to the palace because he was ill. He held a banquet and talked and laughed freely.
A few days later, the emperor summoned the ministers to inquire about the matter. Wang Liang's face showed no signs of illness. Yushi Zhongcheng Le'ai reported that this was disrespectful to the emperor and discussed the punishment of abandoning the market.
The emperor ordered Wang Liang to be stripped of his title and become a commoner.
In the summer of the fourth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu had a banquet with his ministers in Huaguang Palace and said to them: I still listen to the affairs of the state every day until the sun sets, and I want to hear about the gains and losses of the administration.
summary:
Wang Liang, a sixth-generation descendant of Jin Dynasty Prime Minister Wang Dao, was selected as a prince consort in the late Song Dynasty due to his prestigious family background. He held various official positions, including Secretary Lang and prefect of Hengyang, but declined the latter due to the region's humid climate. Known for his honesty and fair governance as governor of Jinling, he was praised by Emperor Qi Ming. During the Jianwu era, he served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, often dissenting in his role. Initially close to Jiang Zhe, their relationship cooled, yet Jiang remained friendly. After Jiang's death, Wang could not prevent corrupt appointments. When the benevolent army arrived, Wang did not welcome them, but later met Emperor Gaozu, who spared him. He was granted titles like Duke of Yuning County but was stripped of his rank and made a commoner in the fourth year of Tianjian after being impeached for disrespect. He later lived in seclusion, served as Secretary Supervisor, and died in the ninth year of Tianjian, posthumously named Yangzi.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
服除，为骠骑法曹行参军，迁外兵参军。
齐永明中，为剡县令，略不视事，多为山水游。
会贼唐瑶作乱，稷率厉县人，保全县境。
入为太子洗马，大司马东曹掾，建安王友，大司马从事中郎。
武陵王渼为护军，转护军司马，寻为本州治中。
明帝领牧，仍为别驾。
时魏寇寿春，以稷为宁朔将军、军主，副尚书仆射沈文季镇豫州。
魏众称百万，围城累日，时经略处分，文季悉委稷焉。
军退，迁平西司马、宁朔将军、南平内史。
魏又寇雍州，诏以本号都督荆、雍诸军事。
时雍州刺史曹虎度樊城岸，以稷知州事。
魏师退，稷还荆州，就拜黄门侍郎，复为司马、新兴、永宁二郡太守。
郡犯私讳，改永宁为长宁。
寻迁司徒司马，加辅国将军。
及江州刺史陈显达举兵反，以本号镇历阳、南谯二郡太守，迁镇南长史、寻阳太守、辅国将军、行江州事。
寻征还，为持节、辅国将军、都督北徐州诸军事、北徐州刺史。
出次白下，仍迁都督南兗州诸军事、南兗州刺史。
俄进督北徐、徐、兗、青、冀五州诸军事，将军并如故。
永元末，征为侍中，宿卫宫城。
义师至，兼卫尉江淹出奔。稷兼卫尉，副王莹都督城内诸军事。
时东昏淫虐，义师围城已久，城内思亡而莫有先发。
北徐州刺史王珍国就稷谋之，乃使直阁张齐害东昏于含德殿。
稷召尚书右仆射王亮等列坐殿前西钟下，谓曰： 昔桀有昏德，鼎迁于殷；商纣暴虐，鼎迁于周。
今独夫自绝于天，四海已归圣主，斯实微子去殷之时，项伯归汉之日，可不勉哉！
乃遣国子博士范云、舍人裴长穆等使石头城诣高祖，高祖以稷为侍中、左卫将军。
高祖总百揆，迁大司马左司马。
梁台建，为散骑常侍、中书令。
高祖受禅，以功封江安县侯，邑一千户。
又为侍中、国子祭酒，领骁骑将军，迁护军将军、扬州大中正，以事免。
寻为度支尚书、前将军、太子右卫率，又以公事免。
俄为祠部尚书，转散骑常侍、都官尚书、扬州大中正，以本职知领军事。
寻迁领军将军，中正、侯如故。
时魏寇青州，诏假节、行州事。
会魏军退，仍出为散骑常侍、将军，吴兴太守，秩中二千石。
translation: 
After the mourning was over, he served as a hussar and joined the army. Cao Xing joined the army as a foreign soldier.
During the Chenglong period of Yiqiao, he was in charge of the Longgang Order when he was in trouble. He rarely worked on his job and mostly traveled around the mountains and rivers.
It coincided with the rebellion of the thief Tang Yu. Zhang Ji led the people to encourage the people in the county and preserved the county territory.
He entered the court to wash horses for the prince, served as the Grand Sima Dong Cao, Wang You of Jian'an, and the Grand Sima worked as a lieutenant.
Xiao Bi, the king of Wuling, served as the guard of the army, and Zhang Ji was transferred to the army guard Sima, and soon became the governor of the state.
Emperor Ming also served as the governor of the state, and Zhang Ji still served as the farewell driver.
At that time, the Wei Dynasty invaded Shouchun and appointed Zhang Ji as General Ningshuo and military leader, while Deputy Minister Pu Shen Wenji guarded Yuzhou.
The Wei Dynasty had millions of soldiers and besieged the city for several days. At that time, Shen Wenji entrusted all the planning and handling to Zhang Ji.
After the Wei army retreated, Zhang Ji moved to Xi Sima, General Ning Shuo, and Nanping Internal History.
The Wei army invaded Yongzhou again, and the emperor ordered that he use his title as the commander-in-chief to oversee the military affairs of Jing and Yong.
At that time, Cao Hu, the governor of Yongzhou, crossed the border of Fancheng and appointed Zhang Ji as the governor of the state.
After the Wei army was defeated and retreated, Zhang Ji returned to Jingzhou and became the minister of Huangmen. He also served as the governor of Sima and Xingxing Yongning counties.
The name of the county was changed from Yongning to Changning because of Zhang Ji's father's taboo.
Soon Zhang Ji moved to Situ Sima and became an assistant general.
When Chen Haoda, the governor of Jiangzhou, led his army to rebel, Zhang Ji took his own title as the prefect of Liyang and Nanqiao counties, and moved to the post of Nan Changshi, the prefect of Xunyang, the general of the auxiliary country, and conducted affairs in Jiangzhou.
Soon he was drafted back and served as the general to support the country, the military governor of North Xuzhou, and the governor of North Xuzhou.
He went on patrol and was stationed in Baixia. He was also moved to be the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Nanyanzhou and the governor of Nanyanzhou.
Soon Zhang Ji came to supervise the military affairs of the five states of Northern Xu, Xu, Yan, Qing, and Ji, and the generals he appointed were still the same as before.
At the end of Yongyuan, Zhang Ji was recruited as a servant and served as a guard in the palace.
When Renyi's troops arrived, Jiang Yan, a concurrent guard, fled, Zhang Ji concurrently served as a guard, and Deputy Wang Ying was in charge of all military affairs in the city.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun was promiscuous and violent, and the righteous army had been besieging the city for a long time. The people in the city wanted to escape, but no one took the initiative.
Yuyong Sanxi, the governor of Northern Xuzhou, came to force Nahuo to plan the matter with him, so he sent Zhang Qi to kill Donghunhou in the Hande Hall.
Zhang Ji summoned Shangshu's right servant Wang Liang and others to sit under the west bell in front of the palace, and said: "In the past, Jie had a foolish and angry virtue, so Ding moved to Yin; Shang Dynasty was brutal and wreaking havoc, so Ding moved to Zhou."
Now those who have rebelled against their relatives have isolated themselves from the world, and the land of the four seas has returned to the Holy Lord. This is the time when Wei Zi left Yin, and Xiang Bo returned to Mo. Can we not work hard?
He then sent Guozi doctor Jianxue, Sheshedongkenlang and others as envoys to Huxiyuan to pay homage to Chandan. Gudan appointed Gong mole as the minister in charge and the general of Zuowei.
Gao Zu was in charge of all affairs, and Zhang Yun moved to the Grand Sima Zuo Sima.
When Chuchutai was established, he served as the regular attendant of Sanqi and Zhongshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication and granted Zhang Ji the title of Marquis of Jiang'an County based on his merits, granting him a fief of 1,000 households.
He also served as the minister, the son of the state, the leader of the knights, the general of the guard army, and the chief minister of Yangzhou. He was dismissed due to some circumstances.
Soon Zhang Ji served as Duzhi Shangshu, former general, and Prince Youjie leader, but was dismissed due to official duties.
Soon he was appointed as the Minister of the Ancestral Temple, and then transferred to the Changshi of Sanqi, the Minister of Duguan, and the Dazhongzheng of Yangzhou. He used his original position to lead the military.
Immediately, Zhang Jiqian led the generals, Zhongzheng and Hou were the same as before.
At that time, the Wei army invaded Qingzhou, and Shao Zhang Ji took a holiday to attend state affairs.
When the Wei army retreated, he went out to serve as a regular servant of the cavalry, a general, and the prefect of Wuxing, with a salary of two thousand dan.
summary:
Zhang Ji, known for his filial piety, began his career after mourning his parents for six years. He defended Longgang County during Tang Yu's rebellion and held military posts, including defending Yuzhou against the Wei Dynasty with a million soldiers. He later served as governor of various regions and was involved in the rebellion against Marquis Shuhun, killing him in the Hande Hall. After Emperor Gaozu's ascension, Zhang was made Marquis of Jiang'an County. He held numerous high-ranking positions, such as Minister Zuopushe, and was known for his generous political measures. He was killed at age 63 during a rebellion in Yuzhou, and his title was posthumously revoked. His daughter Chu Yuan died protecting him. Zhang Ji was straightforward, had no savings, and gave his salary to relatives.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
服阕，为给事黄门郎，出为宣城太守，迁为骠骑长史。
复为黄门侍郎、司马、太子中庶子，仍迁侍中，父忧去职。
服阕，复为侍中，领射声校尉，又为冠军将军、东阳太守。
居郡有惠政，迁吴兴太守。
明帝勤忧庶政，莹频处二郡，皆有能名。甚见褒美。
还为太子詹事、中领军。
永元初，政由群小，莹守职而不能有所是非。
莹从弟亮既当朝，于莹素虽不善，时欲引与同事。
迁尚书左仆射，未拜。会护军崔慧景自京口奉江夏王入伐，莹假节，率众拒慧景于湖头，夜为慧景所袭，众散，莹赴水，乘榜入乐游，因得还台城。
慧景败，还居领军府。
义师至，复假节，都督宫城诸军事。
建康平，高祖为相国，引莹为左长史，加冠军将军，奉法驾迎和帝于江陵。
帝至南州，逊位于别宫。
高祖践阼，迁侍中、抚军将军，封建城县公，邑千户。
寻迁尚书左仆射，侍中、抚军如故。
顷之，为护军将军，复迁散骑常侍、中军将军、丹阳尹。
视事三年，迁侍中、光禄大夫，领左卫将军。
俄迁尚书令、云麾将军，侍中如故。
累进号左中权将军，给鼓吹一部。
莹性清慎，居官恭恪，高祖深重之。
天监十五年，迁左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，丹阳尹、侍中如故。
莹将拜，印工铸其印，六铸而龟六毁，既成，颈空不实，补而用之。
居职六日，暴疾卒。
赠侍中、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：孔子称 殷有三仁：微子去之，箕子为之奴，比干谏而死。
王亮之居乱世，势位见矣。
translation: 
After the mourning period was over, Wang Ying served as a servant to Huang Menlang, became the prefect of Xuancheng, and moved to Hussar to become a long history.
He also served as Huangmen's minister, Sima, and the concubine of the prince. He still moved to the minister's position. After his father died, he left his position.
When Wang Ying's mourning period expired, she retired from her service and served as a servant, leading the Shesheng school captain, champion general, and Dongyang governor.
Wang Ying had a benevolent government in Junxiang and moved to Wuxing to be the prefect.
Emperor Ming was worried about various government affairs. Wang Ying lived in two counties one after another. Both had a reputation for being competent and were praised and praised very much.
After he returned to the court, he served as Prince Zhan Shi and Zhong Lingjun.
In the early years of Yongyuan, political affairs were managed by villains. Wang Ying was loyal to her duties but could not make any comments.
After Wang Ying's cousin Wang Liang took charge of the government, although he was not friendly to Wang Ying, he often wanted to introduce him as a colleague.
Wang Ying moved to Zuopushe, Shangshu, but did not worship. It happened that Cui Huijing, the guardian army, came from Beijing to send King Jiangxia to attack. Wang Ying took the holiday and led all the troops to resist Huijing at the head of the lake. Ye Guo was attacked by Hui Jing and the army collapsed. Wang Ying jumped into the water, grabbed the wood pieces and escaped into Leyou, so she was able to return to Taicheng.
Cui Huijing was defeated, and Wang Ying returned to the court and lived in the leading army mansion.
When the army of benevolence and righteousness arrived, he took another holiday and took charge of all the military affairs in the palace.
After Jiankang was pacified, Emperor Gaozu was appointed Prime Minister of the country. He recommended Wang Ying as Zuo Changshi and became a champion general. He was sent to Jiangling to greet Emperor He.
When Emperor He went to Nanzhou, he gave way to palaces other than the formal bedroom.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Wang Ying moved to serve as a minister, general of the Fu army, and became the Duke of a feudal city and county, housing thousands of households in the town.
Soon after he was moved to Zuopushe, the minister, the ministers in charge and Fujun remained the same as before.
Immediately, Wang Ying was appointed as the general of the guard army, and also moved to the general of the cavalry, the general of the Chinese army, and Danyang Yin.
Wang Ying took office for three years, and moved to Shizhong and Guanglu to lead the left guard general.
Soon he was moved to Shangshu Ling and General Yunhui, and his servants were still the same as before.
He was promoted to General Zuo Zhongquan many times and promoted one department.
Wang Ying had a noble and prudent personality and was respectful and prudent in her duties. Emperor Gaozu valued her very much.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Wang Ying moved to Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yi, but Danyang Yin and Shizhong remained as before.
When Wang Ying was about to take up his post, the craftsmen of the seal cast cast his seal six times, and the tortoise was destroyed six times. After the completion, the neck of the tortoise was empty and there was no filling to fill it.
Wang Ying took office for six days when she suddenly fell ill and died.
Posthumously presented to Shi Zhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: Confucius claimed that there were three benevolent people in Yin. Weizi left, Jizi became a slave, and Bigan died because of his admonishment.
Wang Liang was in troubled times, and his power and position were all revealed.
summary:
Wang Ying, also from Linyi, married a princess and held various posts, including prefect of Yixing and Wuxing. He was known for his benevolent governance. During the Yongyuan era, he resisted Cui Huijing's attack but fled after his army collapsed. After Jiankang was pacified, he served Emperor Gaozu as Zuo Changshi and later became Duke of a feudal city. He held positions like Shangshu Ling and General Yunhui, known for his noble and prudent character. In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, he was promoted to Zuo Guanglu but died six days after taking office, with his seal mysteriously damaged six times during casting. Historian Yao Cha commented that Wang Liang's actions in troubled times resembled the three benevolent men of Yin, but his later career led to shame and waste. Zhang Ji's adaptability was a product of his era, while Wang Ying's seal destruction suggested divine jealousy.

