Chunk 0: 
original: 
王亮张稷王莹王亮，字奉叔，琅邪临沂人，晋丞相导之六世孙也。祖偃，宋右光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
父攸，给事黄门侍郎。
亮以名家子，宋末选尚公主，拜驸马都尉、秘书郎，累迁桂阳王文学，南郡王友，秘书丞。
齐竟陵王子良开西邸，延才俊以为士林馆，使工图画其像，亮亦预焉。
迁中书侍郎、大司马从事中郎，出为衡阳太守。
以南土卑湿，辞不之官，迁给事黄门侍郎。
寻拜晋陵太守，在职清公有美政。
时齐明帝作相，闻而嘉之，引为领军长史，甚见赏纳。
及即位，累迁太子中庶子，尚书吏部郎，诠序著称，迁侍中。
建武末，为吏部尚书，是时尚书右仆射江祏管朝政，多所进拔，为士子所归。
亮自以身居选部，每持异议。
始亮未为吏部郎时，以祏帝之内弟，故深友祏，祏为之延誉，益为帝所器重；至是与祏昵之如初。
及祏遇诛，群小放命，凡所除拜，悉由内宠，亮更弗能止。
外若详审，内无明鉴，其所选用，拘资次而已，当世不谓为能。
频加通直散骑常侍、太子右卫率，为尚书右仆射、中护军。
既而东昏肆虐，淫刑已逞，亮倾侧取容，竟以免戮。
义师至新林，内外百僚皆道迎，其未能拔者，亦间路送诚款，亮独不遣。
及城内既定，独推亮为首。
亮出见高祖，高祖曰： 颠而不扶，安用彼相。
而弗之罪也。
霸府开，以为大司马长史、抚军将军、琅邪、清河二郡太守。
梁台建，授侍中、尚书令，固让不拜，乃为侍中、中书监，兼尚书令。
高祖受禅，迁侍中、尚书令、中军将军，引参佐命，封豫宁县公，邑二千户。
天监二年，转左光禄大夫，侍中、中军如故。
元日朝会万国，亮辞疾不登殿，设馔别省，而语笑自若。
数日，诏公卿问讯，亮无疾色，御史中丞乐蔼奏大不敬，论弃市刑。
诏削爵废为庶人。
四年夏，高祖宴于华光殿，谓群臣曰： 朕日昃听政，思闻得失。
translation: 
Wang Liang, courtesy name Fengshu, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was the sixth-generation grandson of Wang Dao, the prime minister of the Jin Dynasty. His grandfather Wang Yan was a doctor of Youguanglu and Kaifu Yitong in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Wang You, was the minister of Huangmen.
Because Wang Liang was a child of a famous family, he was selected as a mate to the princess in the late Song Dynasty. He was worshiped as Prince Consort and Secretary Lang. After being promoted many times, he served as King Wenxue of Guiyang, Wang You of Nanjun, and Secretary Cheng.
Prince Liang of Jingling of the Qi Dynasty opened a west residence, invited talented people to set up a scholar's hall, and sent craftsmen to paint their portraits. Wang Liang also participated in it.
Wang Liang moved to Zhongshu Shilang and Da Sima to work as Zhonglang and became the prefect of Hengyang.
Because the terrain in the south was low and humid, he declined to take up the post and moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen.
Soon Wang Liang became the governor of Jinling. He was honest and fair and had good political measures.
Emperor Qi Ming was the prime minister at that time. After hearing about it, he praised him and recommended him as the leader of the army. He was highly appreciated and accepted.
When Emperor Ming of Qi came to the throne, Wang Liang was moved to the crown prince's concubine, Shangshu Libu Lang. He was famous for explaining things clearly and clearly, and he was also moved to serve in the palace.
In the last years of Jianwu, Wang Liang served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. The right servant of this fashion book, She Jiang Zhe, managed the government affairs, recommended and selected talents many times, and became the home of scholars.
Wang Liang often insisted on dissent by virtue of his position in the election department.
When Wang Liang was not a member of the staff, he had a close friendship with Jiang Zhe because Jiang Zhe was the emperor's brother-in-law. Jiang Tuo spread his reputation, and Wang Liang was even more valued by the emperor. When he arrived in Japan, his relationship with Jiang Zhe had become distant and cold, but Jiang Zhe was still as close to him as before.
When Jiang Zhe was killed, all the villains violated the religious orders, and all appointments to officials and appointments were decided by their favorites, and Wang Liang was even less able to stop them.
It seems that they have been carefully scrutinized externally, but there is no obvious identification internally. Their selection and appointment are limited to status and rank. People in the world do not think they have ability.
Wang Liang frequently added Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi and the prince's right guard to lead the minister's right servant and guard the army.
Soon Shu Hun killed him arbitrarily and the torture was already rampant. Wang Liang relied on him to please him and was finally saved from being killed.
When the benevolent and righteous troops arrived in Xinlin, many officials inside and outside the imperial court went to the road to welcome him. Those who could not escape also sent people to express their sincere feelings through the small road, but Wang Liang did not go.
When the city was settled, everyone only elected Wang Liang as their leader.
Wang Liang came out to meet Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu said: If a blind man falls and does not help him, how can he need someone to help him?
But he was not convicted.
After the establishment of Bafu, Wang Liang served as the Grand Sima Changshi, the General of Fujun, and the Governor of Langye Qinghe County.
When Liangtai was established, Wang Liang was granted the title of Shizhong and Shangshu Ling, but he resolutely refused to accept the offer. He only served as Shizhong, Zhongshu Supervisor and concurrently as Shangshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication, and Wang Liang moved to serve as minister, minister, and general of the Chinese army. He was introduced to serve as an assistant, and he was granted the title of Duke of Yuning County and a settlement of 2,000 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, Wang Liang was transferred to Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and his servants and soldiers were still as before.
On the first day of the first lunar month, he met with guests from all over the world in the court. Wang Liang refused to go to the palace because he was ill. He held a banquet and talked and laughed freely.
A few days later, the emperor summoned the ministers to inquire about the matter. Wang Liang's face showed no signs of illness. Yushi Zhongcheng Le'ai reported that this was disrespectful to the emperor and discussed the punishment of abandoning the market.
The emperor ordered Wang Liang to be stripped of his title and become a commoner.
In the summer of the fourth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu had a banquet with his ministers in Huaguang Palace and said to them: I still listen to the affairs of the state every day until the sun sets, and I want to hear about the gains and losses of the administration.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
卿等可谓多士，宜各尽献替。
尚书左丞范缜起曰： 司徒谢朏本有虚名，陛下擢之如此，前尚书令王亮颇有治实，陛下弃之如彼，是愚臣所不知。
高祖变色曰： 卿可更余言。
缜固执不已，高祖不悦。
御史中丞任昉因奏曰：臣闻息夫历诋，汉有正刑；白褒一奏，晋以明罚。
况乎附下讪上，毁誉自口者哉。
风闻尚书左丞臣范缜，自晋安还，语人云： 我不诣余人，惟诣王亮；不饷余人，惟饷王亮。
辄收缜白从左右万休到台辨问，与风闻符同。
又今月十日，御饯梁州刺史臣珍国，宴私既洽，群臣并已谒退，时诏留侍中臣昂等十人，访以政道。
缜不答所问，而横议沸腾，遂贬裁司徒臣朏，褒举庶人王亮。
臣于时预奉恩留，肩随并立，耳目所接，差非风闻。
窃寻王有游豫，亲御轩陛，义深推毂，情均《湛露》。
酒阑宴罢，当扆正立，记事在前，记言在后，轸早朝之念，深求瘼之情，而缜言不逊，妄陈褒贬，伤济济之风，缺侧席之望。
不有严裁，宪准将颓，缜即主。
臣谨案：尚书左丞臣范缜，衣冠绪余，言行舛驳，夸谐里落，喧诟周行。
曲学谀闻，未知去代；弄口鸣舌，祇足饰非。
乃者，义师近次，缜丁罹艰棘，曾不呼门，墨縗景附，颇同先觉，实奉龙颜。
而今党协衅余，翻为矛楯，人而无恒，成兹奸詖。
日者，饮至策勋，功微赏厚，出守名邦，入司管辖，苞篚罔遗，而假称折辕，衣裙所弊，谗激失所，许与疵废，廷辱民宗。
translation: 
You and others can be said to be talented and courageous people, and they should each give advice.
Fan Zhen, the minister Zuocheng, stood up and said: Situ Xiebei originally had only a false reputation, but your majesty promoted him like this. The previous minister, Ling Wang Liang, was very talented in handling practical affairs, but your majesty abandoned him like this. These are things that a foolish minister cannot know.
Gaozu's face changed and he said: "You can talk about other things."
Fan Zhen insisted on his own opinion, and Gaozu was very unhappy.
Censor Zhongcheng Ren Fang took the opportunity to report: I heard that Xifu had repeatedly slandered others, and the Han Dynasty had fair laws to punish him; Bai Bao reported once, and the Jin Dynasty punished him with strict punishments.
How much more so for those who rely on those below to slander those above, and who slander and praise people casually.
I heard that Fan Zhen, the minister Zuo Chengchen, came back from Jin'an and said to others: I don't visit other people, only Wang Liang; I don't entertain others, I only entertain Wang Liang.
Bai Cong and Wanxiu, who had arrested Fan Zhen, came to Taiwan for interrogation, and their confessions were consistent with the rumors.
On the tenth day of this month, the emperor paid a farewell party to Zhen Guo, the governor of Liangzhou. The banquet was over, and all the ministers asked to retire. At that time, the emperor ordered Yuan Ang, the minister in charge, and ten other people to stay behind to inquire about the strategy of governance.
Fan Zhen did not answer the questions he asked, but he made a very heated discussion, denigrating and judging Situ Chen Xie Li, and praising and recommending Wang Liang, a common man.
At that time, I was also among the ministers who stayed behind due to their kindness. I stood in the hall with my colleagues and heard and saw. The rumors were not wrong.
Now the king is traveling again and drives to the court in person. He recommends talents with deep affection and favors are all over "Zhanlu".
After the banquet, he stood upright facing the screen, with the person who recorded the events in front and the person who recorded the remarks in the back, thinking deeply about the thoughts of the early dynasty and asking about the sufferings of the people. However, Lian Tang spoke rudely and stated praise and blame at will, which was harmful to his beautiful style and lacked the reputation of humility.
Without strict rulings, the legal system will decline, and Fan Zhen is the person involved.
Chen Jin's case: Fan Zhen, the minister Zuo Chengchen of Shangshu, was a queen of clothes, his words and deeds were inconsistent, he boasted in the countryside, and he was criticized loudly in the ranks of officials.
Sticking to unreasonable knowledge, listening flatteringly, not knowing what to remove and replace; gossiping. It's just enough to cover up mistakes.
In the past, soldiers of benevolence and righteousness were stationed for a short period of time. When Jianlong suffered a bereavement, he did not call the door and wore black mourning clothes as if a shadow was attached to him. It was as if he knew it in advance and was actually worshiping the emperor.
Nowadays, when friends coordinate and provoke each other, they turn into various conflicts. If people don't persist, they will become such evil people.
In the past, when celebrating meritorious deeds, he was rewarded with small but generous rewards. He went out to take charge of famous states and went to the government to manage and rule. He did not repatriate the property he collected, but he pretended to be honest. Clothes can cover the body. Those who slander others will soon lose their place of residence. They will attract criticism for their faults and think they should be deposed. They will humiliate the people's masters in the court.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
自居枢宪，纠奏寂寞。
顾望纵容，无至公之议；恶直丑正，有私讦之谈。
宜置之徽纆，肃正国典。
臣等参议，请以见事免缜所居官，辄勒外收付廷尉法狱治罪。
应诸连逮，委之狱官，以法制从事。
缜位应黄纸，臣辄奉白简。
诏闻可。
玺书诘缜曰： 亮少乏才能，无闻时辈，昔经冒入群英，相与岂薄，晚节谄事江祏，为吏部，末协附梅虫儿、茹法珍，遂执昏政。
比屋罹祸，尽家涂炭，四海沸腾，天下横溃，此谁之咎！食乱君之禄，不死于治世。
亮协固凶党，作威作福，靡衣玉食，女乐盈房，势危事逼，自相吞噬。
建石首题，启靡请罪。
朕录其白旗之来，贳其既往之咎。
亮反覆不忠，奸贿彰暴，有何可论！
妄相谈述，具以状对。
所诘十条，缜答支离而已。
亮因屏居闭扫，不通宾客。
遭母忧，居丧尽礼。
八年，诏起为秘书监，俄加通直散骑常侍，数日迁太常卿。
九年，转中书监，加散骑常侍。
其年卒。
诏赙钱三万，布五十匹。
谥曰炀子。
张稷，字公乔，吴郡人也。父永，宋右光禄大夫。
稷所生母遘疾历时，稷始年十一，夜不解衣而养，永异之。
及母亡，毁瘠过人，杖而后起。
性疏率，朗悟有才略，与族兄充、融、卷等俱知名，时称之曰： 充融卷稷，是为四张。
起家著作佐郎，不拜，频居父母忧，六载庐于墓侧。
translation: 
Since he was in the position of enforcing state laws, the memorial was silent.
Those who see wrongdoing going on without stopping do not have the most impartial comments; those who are ugly and upright may privately attack the shortcomings of others.
The country's institutional laws and regulations should be seriously corrected in accordance with the law.
The ministers and others participated in the discussion and requested that Jian Long be removed from his official position based on the existing affairs, and ordered to be detained separately and delivered to Tingwei Prison for punishment.
Those involved with Fan Zhen should be arrested together, entrusted to officials handling litigation, and dealt with according to the legal system.
Fan Zhen's position was written on yellow paper, and his ministers worshiped the impeachment memorial.
The emperor issued an edict to convey permission.
The edict questioned Fan Zhen and said: Wang Liang lacked talent when he was young and had no reputation among his peers at that time. In the past, he wandered into many outstanding talents, made friends with them and hoped to be attached to them. In his later years, he flattered and served Jiang Zhe and served as an official. Finally, he helped and attached to Mei Chong'er and Ru Fazhen, and he took charge of the chaotic politics.
Every household suffered from disasters and fell into extreme hardship, and the world was in chaos and chaos. Whose fault is it to eat the emperor's salary and not to die in order to rule the world?
Wang Liang helped stabilize the vicious clique, which dominated the country, lavished food and clothing, filled the house with beauties and music, and annexed each other when the situation was critical.
Wang Liang first signed the letter of sincerity to Liang Wu on the Jianye Stone, and fell down to apologize.
I hired him because he surrendered and forgiven his past sins.
Wang Liang was fickle and disloyal to the king, and his treachery and greed for money were clearly exposed. What could be disputed and discussed casually?
All based on stated answers.
Fan Zhen could only answer the ten questions in a scattered manner.
Wang Liang therefore lived in seclusion and did not interact with guests.
When his mother died, he performed his filial duty in mourning.
In the eighth year of the reign of Emperor Xia Shao, Wang Liang was appointed as Secretary Supervisor. Soon after, he was appointed as a regular servant of Zhi Sanqi, and a few days later he was moved to Taichang Qing.
In the ninth year, he was transferred to the School Supervisor and became a regular attendant.
That year Wang Liang died.
The emperor sent a funeral gift of thirty thousand coins and five thousand pieces of cloth to the emperor.
Wang Liang's nickname is Yangzi.
The word "heavy duty" is public sale, and the county title is written by the person. His father, Ji Cheng, was a doctor named Guanglu of Sai Dynasty.
Zhang Ji's biological mother was ill for four seasons. Zhang Nuo was only eleven years old at the time. Zhang Cheng thought it was strange that Xiang was still naked at night to take care of his mother.
When his mother passed away, Zhang Ji became extremely thin due to the grief. He was thinner than the average person and could only stand up with a cane.
Bao Dan had a rough and rash character, and was intelligent and talented. He had a strong relationship with his brothers Chengtie, Jiqun, etc. They were all known to the world. At that time, people called them: Chong, Rong, Juan, and Ji, making them four.
Zhang Ji started his career as Zuolang, but did not accept it. He dealt with the funeral of his parents one after another and built a hut next to the grave to mourn for six years.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
服除，为骠骑法曹行参军，迁外兵参军。
齐永明中，为剡县令，略不视事，多为山水游。
会贼唐瑶作乱，稷率厉县人，保全县境。
入为太子洗马，大司马东曹掾，建安王友，大司马从事中郎。
武陵王渼为护军，转护军司马，寻为本州治中。
明帝领牧，仍为别驾。
时魏寇寿春，以稷为宁朔将军、军主，副尚书仆射沈文季镇豫州。
魏众称百万，围城累日，时经略处分，文季悉委稷焉。
军退，迁平西司马、宁朔将军、南平内史。
魏又寇雍州，诏以本号都督荆、雍诸军事。
时雍州刺史曹虎度樊城岸，以稷知州事。
魏师退，稷还荆州，就拜黄门侍郎，复为司马、新兴、永宁二郡太守。
郡犯私讳，改永宁为长宁。
寻迁司徒司马，加辅国将军。
及江州刺史陈显达举兵反，以本号镇历阳、南谯二郡太守，迁镇南长史、寻阳太守、辅国将军、行江州事。
寻征还，为持节、辅国将军、都督北徐州诸军事、北徐州刺史。
出次白下，仍迁都督南兗州诸军事、南兗州刺史。
俄进督北徐、徐、兗、青、冀五州诸军事，将军并如故。
永元末，征为侍中，宿卫宫城。
义师至，兼卫尉江淹出奔。稷兼卫尉，副王莹都督城内诸军事。
时东昏淫虐，义师围城已久，城内思亡而莫有先发。
北徐州刺史王珍国就稷谋之，乃使直阁张齐害东昏于含德殿。
稷召尚书右仆射王亮等列坐殿前西钟下，谓曰： 昔桀有昏德，鼎迁于殷；商纣暴虐，鼎迁于周。
今独夫自绝于天，四海已归圣主，斯实微子去殷之时，项伯归汉之日，可不勉哉！
乃遣国子博士范云、舍人裴长穆等使石头城诣高祖，高祖以稷为侍中、左卫将军。
高祖总百揆，迁大司马左司马。
梁台建，为散骑常侍、中书令。
高祖受禅，以功封江安县侯，邑一千户。
又为侍中、国子祭酒，领骁骑将军，迁护军将军、扬州大中正，以事免。
寻为度支尚书、前将军、太子右卫率，又以公事免。
俄为祠部尚书，转散骑常侍、都官尚书、扬州大中正，以本职知领军事。
寻迁领军将军，中正、侯如故。
时魏寇青州，诏假节、行州事。
会魏军退，仍出为散骑常侍、将军，吴兴太守，秩中二千石。
translation: 
After the mourning was over, he served as a hussar and joined the army. Cao Xing joined the army as a foreign soldier.
During the Chenglong period of Yiqiao, he was in charge of the Longgang Order when he was in trouble. He rarely worked on his job and mostly traveled around the mountains and rivers.
It coincided with the rebellion of the thief Tang Yu. Zhang Ji led the people to encourage the people in the county and preserved the county territory.
He entered the court to wash horses for the prince, served as the Grand Sima Dong Cao, Wang You of Jian'an, and the Grand Sima worked as a lieutenant.
Xiao Bi, the king of Wuling, served as the guard of the army, and Zhang Ji was transferred to the army guard Sima, and soon became the governor of the state.
Emperor Ming also served as the governor of the state, and Zhang Ji still served as the farewell driver.
At that time, the Wei Dynasty invaded Shouchun and appointed Zhang Ji as General Ningshuo and military leader, while Deputy Minister Pu Shen Wenji guarded Yuzhou.
The Wei Dynasty had millions of soldiers and besieged the city for several days. At that time, Shen Wenji entrusted all the planning and handling to Zhang Ji.
After the Wei army retreated, Zhang Ji moved to Xi Sima, General Ning Shuo, and Nanping Internal History.
The Wei army invaded Yongzhou again, and the emperor ordered that he use his title as the commander-in-chief to oversee the military affairs of Jing and Yong.
At that time, Cao Hu, the governor of Yongzhou, crossed the border of Fancheng and appointed Zhang Ji as the governor of the state.
After the Wei army was defeated and retreated, Zhang Ji returned to Jingzhou and became the minister of Huangmen. He also served as the governor of Sima and Xingxing Yongning counties.
The name of the county was changed from Yongning to Changning because of Zhang Ji's father's taboo.
Soon Zhang Ji moved to Situ Sima and became an assistant general.
When Chen Haoda, the governor of Jiangzhou, led his army to rebel, Zhang Ji took his own title as the prefect of Liyang and Nanqiao counties, and moved to the post of Nan Changshi, the prefect of Xunyang, the general of the auxiliary country, and conducted affairs in Jiangzhou.
Soon he was drafted back and served as the general to support the country, the military governor of North Xuzhou, and the governor of North Xuzhou.
He went on patrol and was stationed in Baixia. He was also moved to be the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Nanyanzhou and the governor of Nanyanzhou.
Soon Zhang Ji came to supervise the military affairs of the five states of Northern Xu, Xu, Yan, Qing, and Ji, and the generals he appointed were still the same as before.
At the end of Yongyuan, Zhang Ji was recruited as a servant and served as a guard in the palace.
When Renyi's troops arrived, Jiang Yan, a concurrent guard, fled, Zhang Ji concurrently served as a guard, and Deputy Wang Ying was in charge of all military affairs in the city.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun was promiscuous and violent, and the righteous army had been besieging the city for a long time. The people in the city wanted to escape, but no one took the initiative.
Yuyong Sanxi, the governor of Northern Xuzhou, came to force Nahuo to plan the matter with him, so he sent Zhang Qi to kill Donghunhou in the Hande Hall.
Zhang Ji summoned Shangshu's right servant Wang Liang and others to sit under the west bell in front of the palace, and said: "In the past, Jie had a foolish and angry virtue, so Ding moved to Yin; Shang Dynasty was brutal and wreaking havoc, so Ding moved to Zhou."
Now those who have rebelled against their relatives have isolated themselves from the world, and the land of the four seas has returned to the Holy Lord. This is the time when Wei Zi left Yin, and Xiang Bo returned to Mo. Can we not work hard?
He then sent Guozi doctor Jianxue, Sheshedongkenlang and others as envoys to Huxiyuan to pay homage to Chandan. Gudan appointed Gong mole as the minister in charge and the general of Zuowei.
Gao Zu was in charge of all affairs, and Zhang Yun moved to the Grand Sima Zuo Sima.
When Chuchutai was established, he served as the regular attendant of Sanqi and Zhongshu Ling.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the abdication and granted Zhang Ji the title of Marquis of Jiang'an County based on his merits, granting him a fief of 1,000 households.
He also served as the minister, the son of the state, the leader of the knights, the general of the guard army, and the chief minister of Yangzhou. He was dismissed due to some circumstances.
Soon Zhang Ji served as Duzhi Shangshu, former general, and Prince Youjie leader, but was dismissed due to official duties.
Soon he was appointed as the Minister of the Ancestral Temple, and then transferred to the Changshi of Sanqi, the Minister of Duguan, and the Dazhongzheng of Yangzhou. He used his original position to lead the military.
Immediately, Zhang Jiqian led the generals, Zhongzheng and Hou were the same as before.
At that time, the Wei army invaded Qingzhou, and Shao Zhang Ji took a holiday to attend state affairs.
When the Wei army retreated, he went out to serve as a regular servant of the cavalry, a general, and the prefect of Wuxing, with a salary of two thousand dan.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
下车存问遗老，引其子孙，置之右职，政称宽恕。
进号云麾将军，征尚书左仆射。
舆驾将欲如稷宅，以盛暑，留幸仆射省，旧临幸供具皆酬太官馔直，帝以稷清贫，手诏不受。
出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督青、冀二州诸军事、安北将军、青、冀二州刺史。
会魏寇朐山，诏稷权顿六里，都督众军。
还，进号镇北将军。
初郁洲接边陲，民俗多与魏人交市。
及朐山叛，或与魏通，既不自安矣；且稷宽弛无防，僚吏颇侵渔之。
州人徐道角等夜袭州城，害稷，时年六十三。
有司奏削爵土。
稷性烈亮，善与人交。
历官无蓄聚，俸禄皆颁之亲故，家无余财。
初去吴兴郡，以仆射征，道由吴乡，候稷者满水陆。
稷单装径还京师，人莫之识，其率素如此。
稷长女楚瑗，适会稽孔氏，无子归宗。
至稷见害，女以身蔽刃，先父卒。
稷子嵊，别有传。
卷字令远，稷从兄也。
少以知理著称，能清言，仕至都官尚书，天监初卒。
王莹，字奉光，琅邪临沂人也。
父懋，光禄大夫、南乡僖侯。
莹选尚宋临淮公主，拜驸马都尉，除著作佐郎，累迁太子舍人，抚军功曹，散骑侍郎，司徒左西属。
齐高帝为骠骑将军，引为从事中郎。
顷之，出为义兴太守，代谢超宗。
超宗去郡，与莹交恶，既还，间莹于懋。
懋言之于朝廷，以莹供养不足，坐失郡废弃。
久之，为前军谘议参军，中书侍郎，大司马从事中郎，未拜，丁母忧。
translation: 
Zhang Ji came to express his condolences to the old officials of the previous dynasty, recommended their descendants, and assigned them important positions. His political affairs were tolerant and benevolent.
Zhang Jijin was given the title of General Yunhui and appointed Minister Zuopushe.
The emperor thought of Zhang Ji's mansion, but because of the scorching summer heat, he stayed in the province of Pushe. In the past, all the utensils donated by the emperor in person were given to the eunuchs for food. The emperor thought that Zhang Ji was poor, so he wrote Shao Shu himself and refused to accept it.
Zhang Ji served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, commander of military affairs in Qingji and Hebei provinces, general of Anbei, and governor of Qingji and Qingji states.
When the Wei army invaded Qushan, Zhang Ji was ordered to temporarily station in Liuli and supervise all the armies.
After returning, he was promoted to General Zhenbei.
At the beginning, Yuzhou was connected to the border, and the people's custom was to trade with people from the Wei Dynasty.
When Qushan rebelled, someone colluded with the Wei people, and he could no longer feel at ease. Moreover, Zhang Ji was relaxed and unprepared, and the officials invaded and robbed the people.
Xu Daojiao and others from the state invaded the state city at night and killed Zhang Ji. He was sixty-three years old at the time.
A superior officer deprived him of his title and fiefdom.
Zhang Ji has a strong and straightforward personality and likes to interact with people.
He had held various official positions but had no savings. His salary was all given to relatives and old friends, and his family had no extra property.
When Zhang Ji left Wuxing County and was recruited as a servant, he took the road from Wu. The villagers waiting for Zhang Ji were crowded by water and land.
Zhang Ji dressed simply and went straight back to the capital. People didn't recognize him because he was so straightforward and simple.
Zhang Ji's eldest daughter Chu Yuan was married to the Kong family in Kuaiji, but she returned to her mother's family because she had no children.
When Zhang Ji was killed, she used her body to cover the sharp blade and died before her father.
Zhang Ji's son Zhang Sheng has another biography.
Zhang Juan, also known as Lingsu, is Zhang Ji's cousin.
When he was young, he was famous for his knowledge of affairs and his ability to talk fluently. He was an official in the capital and became a minister. He died in the early years of Tianjian.
Wang Ying, whose courtesy name was Fengguang, was from Linyi, Langxie.
His father, Wang Mao, was a doctor of Guanglu and a Marquis of Nanxiang.
Wang Ying selected the Linhuai princess of the Song Dynasty and worshiped the Prince Consort as the Commander-in-Chief. In addition to Zuo Zuo Lang, she was promoted to Prince Sheren, Fujun Gongcao, Sanqi Shilang, and Situ Zuoxi.
When Emperor Gao of Qi was appointed General of Hussars, Wang Ying was recommended as a lieutenant.
Soon, Wang Ying became the prefect of Yixing, replacing Xie Chaozong.
Chaozong left the county, and Wang Ying and Wang Ying hated each other. After returning, they alienated Wang Ying from Wang Mao.
Wang Mao reported to the court that Wang Ying had not provided enough for her parents, so she lost her county position and was abandoned.
A long time later, Wang Ying served as a consultant to the former army and joined the army. She was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu. Da Sima was appointed as the Minister of Zhonglang. She did not accept the offer because of her mother's death.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
服阕，为给事黄门郎，出为宣城太守，迁为骠骑长史。
复为黄门侍郎、司马、太子中庶子，仍迁侍中，父忧去职。
服阕，复为侍中，领射声校尉，又为冠军将军、东阳太守。
居郡有惠政，迁吴兴太守。
明帝勤忧庶政，莹频处二郡，皆有能名。甚见褒美。
还为太子詹事、中领军。
永元初，政由群小，莹守职而不能有所是非。
莹从弟亮既当朝，于莹素虽不善，时欲引与同事。
迁尚书左仆射，未拜。会护军崔慧景自京口奉江夏王入伐，莹假节，率众拒慧景于湖头，夜为慧景所袭，众散，莹赴水，乘榜入乐游，因得还台城。
慧景败，还居领军府。
义师至，复假节，都督宫城诸军事。
建康平，高祖为相国，引莹为左长史，加冠军将军，奉法驾迎和帝于江陵。
帝至南州，逊位于别宫。
高祖践阼，迁侍中、抚军将军，封建城县公，邑千户。
寻迁尚书左仆射，侍中、抚军如故。
顷之，为护军将军，复迁散骑常侍、中军将军、丹阳尹。
视事三年，迁侍中、光禄大夫，领左卫将军。
俄迁尚书令、云麾将军，侍中如故。
累进号左中权将军，给鼓吹一部。
莹性清慎，居官恭恪，高祖深重之。
天监十五年，迁左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，丹阳尹、侍中如故。
莹将拜，印工铸其印，六铸而龟六毁，既成，颈空不实，补而用之。
居职六日，暴疾卒。
赠侍中、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：孔子称 殷有三仁：微子去之，箕子为之奴，比干谏而死。
王亮之居乱世，势位见矣。
translation: 
After the mourning period was over, Wang Ying served as a servant to Huang Menlang, became the prefect of Xuancheng, and moved to Hussar to become a long history.
He also served as Huangmen's minister, Sima, and the concubine of the prince. He still moved to the minister's position. After his father died, he left his position.
When Wang Ying's mourning period expired, she retired from her service and served as a servant, leading the Shesheng school captain, champion general, and Dongyang governor.
Wang Ying had a benevolent government in Junxiang and moved to Wuxing to be the prefect.
Emperor Ming was worried about various government affairs. Wang Ying lived in two counties one after another. Both had a reputation for being competent and were praised and praised very much.
After he returned to the court, he served as Prince Zhan Shi and Zhong Lingjun.
In the early years of Yongyuan, political affairs were managed by villains. Wang Ying was loyal to her duties but could not make any comments.
After Wang Ying's cousin Wang Liang took charge of the government, although he was not friendly to Wang Ying, he often wanted to introduce him as a colleague.
Wang Ying moved to Zuopushe, Shangshu, but did not worship. It happened that Cui Huijing, the guardian army, came from Beijing to send King Jiangxia to attack. Wang Ying took the holiday and led all the troops to resist Huijing at the head of the lake. Ye Guo was attacked by Hui Jing and the army collapsed. Wang Ying jumped into the water, grabbed the wood pieces and escaped into Leyou, so she was able to return to Taicheng.
Cui Huijing was defeated, and Wang Ying returned to the court and lived in the leading army mansion.
When the army of benevolence and righteousness arrived, he took another holiday and took charge of all the military affairs in the palace.
After Jiankang was pacified, Emperor Gaozu was appointed Prime Minister of the country. He recommended Wang Ying as Zuo Changshi and became a champion general. He was sent to Jiangling to greet Emperor He.
When Emperor He went to Nanzhou, he gave way to palaces other than the formal bedroom.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Wang Ying moved to serve as a minister, general of the Fu army, and became the Duke of a feudal city and county, housing thousands of households in the town.
Soon after he was moved to Zuopushe, the minister, the ministers in charge and Fujun remained the same as before.
Immediately, Wang Ying was appointed as the general of the guard army, and also moved to the general of the cavalry, the general of the Chinese army, and Danyang Yin.
Wang Ying took office for three years, and moved to Shizhong and Guanglu to lead the left guard general.
Soon he was moved to Shangshu Ling and General Yunhui, and his servants were still the same as before.
He was promoted to General Zuo Zhongquan many times and promoted one department.
Wang Ying had a noble and prudent personality and was respectful and prudent in her duties. Emperor Gaozu valued her very much.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Wang Ying moved to Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yi, but Danyang Yin and Shizhong remained as before.
When Wang Ying was about to take up his post, the craftsmen of the seal cast cast his seal six times, and the tortoise was destroyed six times. After the completion, the neck of the tortoise was empty and there was no filling to fill it.
Wang Ying took office for six days when she suddenly fell ill and died.
Posthumously presented to Shi Zhong, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong.
Yao Cha, the Minister of the Ministry of Official Affairs of Chen, said: Confucius claimed that there were three benevolent people in Yin. Weizi left, Jizi became a slave, and Bigan died because of his admonishment.
Wang Liang was in troubled times, and his power and position were all revealed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其于取舍，何与三仁之异欤？
及奉兴王，蒙宽政，为佐命，固将愧于心。
乃自取废败，非不幸也。
《易》曰： 非所据而据之，身必危。
亮之进退，失所据矣。惜哉！
张稷因机制变，亦其时也。
王莹印章六毁，岂神之害盈乎？
translation: 
What is the difference between his choice and the three virtuous people?
When one succeeds in supporting the emperor, thanks to the tolerant politics, and becomes a hero who assists the emperor in starting a business, he would have felt ashamed in his heart.
It is not a misfortune that he wastes and dies in vain.
"Book of Changes" says: Possessing something that is not something you can have will definitely lead to danger.
Wang Liang's behavior means that he has lost his base. What a pity!
Zhang Ji's adaptability to the situation was also caused by that era.
Wang Ying cast the seal six times and it was destroyed. Could it be that the gods were filled with jealousy?


