Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 6, 8, 18]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
大宛之迹，见自张骞。
张骞，汉中人。建元中为郎。
是时天子问匈奴降者，皆言匈奴破月氏王，以其头为饮器，月氏遁逃而常怨仇匈奴，无与共击之。
汉方欲事灭胡，闻此言，因欲通使。
道必更匈奴中，乃募能使者。
骞以郎应募，使月氏，与堂邑氏胡奴甘父俱出陇西。经匈奴，匈奴得之，传诣单于。
单于留之，曰： 月氏在吾北，汉何以得往使？
吾欲使越，汉肯听我乎？
留骞十馀岁，与妻，有子，然骞持汉节不失。
居匈奴中，益宽，骞因与其属亡乡月氏，西走数十日至大宛。
大宛闻汉之饶财，欲通不得，见骞，喜，问曰： 若欲何之？
骞曰： 为汉使月氏，而为匈奴所闭道。
今亡，唯王使人导送我。
诚得至，反汉，汉之赂遗王财物不可胜言。
大宛以为然，遣骞，为发导绎，抵康居，康居传致大月氏。
translation: 
Dawan was discovered by Zhang Qian.
Zhang Qian was from Hanzhong and served as a Langguan during the Jianyuan reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the emperor asked the surrendered Huns. They all said that the Huns attacked and defeated King Yuezhi and used his skull as a drinking vessel. The Yuezhi fled and often resented the Huns, but they had no friends to fight with them.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was about to attack the Xiongnu. After hearing these statements, it wanted to send an envoy to Yuezhi to contact them.
But to go to Yuezhi, you have to pass through the Xiongnu, so you recruited people who could be sent as envoys.
Zhang Qian responded to the call as a Langguan and was sent as an envoy to the Yuezhi. He left Longxi with a former Huns slave named Ganfu from Tangyi. When passing by the Huns, he was captured by the Huns and handed over to the Chanyu.
The Chanyu retained Zhang Qian and said, "The Yueshi are to the north of us. How can the Han Dynasty send envoys there?"
If we want to send an envoy to South Vietnam, will the Han Dynasty allow us?
He detained Zhang Qian for more than ten years, married him, and gave birth to children. However, Zhang Qian kept the talisman of the Han Dynasty envoy and did not lose it.
Zhang Qian stayed with the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu's care for him gradually relaxed. As a result, Zhang Qian and his followers fled to the Yueshi, and ran westward for dozens of days until they arrived in Dawan.
Dawan heard that the Han Dynasty was rich in money and wanted to communicate with the Han Dynasty, but failed. Now that I saw Zhang Qian, I felt happy and asked Zhang Qian: "Where do you want to go?"
Zhang Qian said: I sent an envoy to the Yuezhi for the Han Dynasty, but the Huns blocked my way.
Now that we have escaped from the Huns, I hope the king will send someone to guide and escort us to Yuezhi.
If we can really reach Yuezhi, we can return to the Han Dynasty. The wealth that the Han Dynasty presented to the king cannot be described in words.
Dawan believed that Zhang Qian's words were true, so he asked Zhang Qian to set off and sent him a guide and translator to reach Kangju. Kangju transferred him to Dayuezhi again.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Qian, a Langguan from Hanzhong during the Jianyuan reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, discovered Dawan. The emperor, learning from surrendered Xiongnu that the Yuezhi had been defeated by the Xiongnu and sought allies, recruited envoys to contact the Yuezhi. Zhang Qian responded, leaving Longxi with Ganfu, a former Xiongnu slave. Captured by the Xiongnu, he was detained for over ten years, married, and had children, but kept his envoy's talisman. Eventually, he escaped westward to Dawan.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
大月氏王已为胡所杀，立其太子为王。
既臣大夏而居，地肥饶，少寇，志安乐，又自以远汉，殊无报胡之心。
骞从月氏至大夏，竟不能得月氏要领。
留岁馀，还，并南山，欲从羌中归，复为匈奴所得。
留岁馀，单于死，左谷蠡王攻其太子自立，国内乱，骞与胡妻及堂邑父俱亡归汉。
汉拜骞为太中大夫，堂邑父为奉使君。
骞为人彊力，宽大信人，蛮夷爱之。
堂邑父故胡人，善射，穷急射禽兽给食。
初，骞行时百馀人，去十三岁，唯二人得还。
骞身所至者大宛、大月氏、大夏、康居，而传闻其旁大国五六，具为天子言之。曰：大宛在匈奴西南，在汉正西，去汉可万里。
translation: 
At this time, the king of Dayuezhi had been killed by the Xiongnu, and his prince was appointed king.
This king had conquered Bactria and settled here. The land here is fertile and fertile, and there are few enemies to invade it, so the mood is comfortable and happy. I also thought that I was far away from the Han Dynasty and had no intention of revenge against the Huns.
Zhang Qian arrived in Daxia from the Yueshi, but after all he did not get the clear attitude of the Yueshi towards uniting the Han to attack the Huns.
Zhang Qian lived in Yueshi for more than a year and returned home. He traveled along the Nanshan Mountains and wanted to return to Chang'an from where the Qiang people lived, but he was captured by the Huns again.
He lived with the Xiongnu for more than a year. When the Chanyu died, King Zuoguli of the Xiongnu attacked the prince and proclaimed himself the Chanyu. The country was in chaos. Zhang Qian took the opportunity to escape back to the Han Dynasty with his Hu wife and Tangyi father.
In the Han Dynasty, Zhang Qian was granted the title of Taizhong Dafu, and Tang Yifu was granted the title of Envoy Lord.
Zhang Qian was strong, powerful, broad-minded, honest and trustworthy, and all the barbarians liked him.
Tangyi's father was a Huns and was good at archery. Whenever he was in poverty and danger, he would shoot birds and animals for food.
Initially, Zhang Qian had more than a hundred followers when he was sent as an envoy. Thirteen years after leaving the Han Dynasty, only he and Gan Fu returned to the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Qian visited Dayuan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, and Kangju. Legend has it that there were five or six big countries next to these countries. He stated the situation to the Emperor of Han one by one, saying: Dayuan is southwest of the Xiongnu, due west of the Han Dynasty, about 10,000 miles away from the Han Dynasty.

summary:
summary line 1: Dawan, eager to connect with the wealthy Han Dynasty, welcomed Zhang Qian and provided guides to Kangju, then to Dayuezhi. The Yuezhi king, having conquered Bactria, was content and unwilling to attack the Xiongnu. After over a year, Zhang Qian returned via the Nanshan Mountains but was recaptured by the Xiongnu. He escaped during internal Xiongnu chaos, returning to the Han Dynasty with his Hu wife and Ganfu. He was granted the title Taizhong Dafu.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
其俗土著，耕田，田稻麦，蒲陶酒。
城邑如大宛。
其属小大数百城，地方数千里，最为大国。
临妫水，有市，民商贾用车及船，行旁国或数千里。
以银为钱，钱如其王面，王死辄更钱，效王面焉。
画革旁行以为书记。
其西则条枝，北有奄蔡、黎轩。
条枝在安息西数千里，临西海。
暑湿。
耕田，田稻。
有大鸟，卵如甕。
人众甚多，往往有小君长，而安息役属之，以为外国。
国善眩。
安息长老传闻条枝有弱水、西王母，而未尝见。
大夏在大宛西南二千馀里妫水南。
其俗土著，有城屋，与大宛同俗。
无大长，往往城邑置小长。
其兵弱，畏战。
善贾市。
及大月氏西徙，攻败之，皆臣畜大夏。
大夏民多，可百馀万。
translation: 
Their custom is to settle in one place, cultivate the fields, grow rice and wheat, and produce wine.
Its towns are like Dawan.
It has hundreds of towns and cities under its jurisdiction and a land area of ​​thousands of miles. It is the largest country.
There is a market near Guishui, and people use cars and ships to transport goods for business, sometimes to nearby countries or places thousands of miles away.
They used silver to make coins, and the coins were minted to resemble the king's appearance. When the king died, they changed the coins because they wanted to imitate the king's appearance.
They drew horizontal lines on the leather as text.
To the west is Tiaozhi, to the north are Yancai and Lixuan.
The branches are thousands of miles west of Parthia, near the Western Sea.
The weather there is hot and humid.
People tilled the fields and grew rice.
There arose a great bird whose eggs were as big as an urn.
With a large population, some places often had small princes, and Parthian servants governed them.
Think of it as a peripheral country.
The people of Tiaozhi are good at magic. The old people in Anxi said that there was Weushui and Queen Mother of the West in Tiaozhi State, but they had never seen them.
Daxia is located south of the Guishui River, more than 2,000 miles southwest of Dawan.
The local custom is that people settle in one place, with towns and houses. The custom is the same as that of Dawan.
There is no grand governor, instead each town has a small governor.
The country's military is weak and afraid of war.
People are good at doing business.
When the Da Yuezhi moved westward, they defeated Da Xia and ruled the entire Da Xia.
There are many people in Daxia, about one million.

summary:
summary line 2: Zhang Qian reported on Dawan and neighboring states: Dawan, southwest of the Xiongnu, had settled agriculture, wine, and fine horses. It had over 70 towns and hundreds of thousands of people. Kangju, a nomadic state with 80,000-90,000 warriors, served the Yuezhi and Xiongnu. Dayuezhi, west of Dawan, was nomadic with 100,000-200,000 warriors, having defeated Daxia. Anxi, a large settled state with towns and trade, used silver coins. Tiaozhi, near the Western Sea, was hot and humid. Daxia, south of the Guishui River, had weak military but strong commerce, ruled by the Yuezhi.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
且诚得而以义属之，则广地万里，重九译，致殊俗，威德遍於四海。
天子欣然，以骞言为然，乃令骞因蜀犍为发间使，四道并出：出駹，出厓，出徙，出邛、僰，皆各行一二千里。
其北方闭氐、筰，南方闭巂、昆明。
昆明之属无君长，善寇盗，辄杀略汉使，终莫得通。
然闻其西可千馀里有乘象国，名曰滇越，而蜀贾奸出物者或至焉，於是汉以求大夏道始通滇国。
初，汉欲通西南夷，费多，道不通，罢之。
及张骞言可以通大夏，乃复事西南夷。
骞以校尉从大将军击匈奴，知水草处，军得以不乏，乃封骞为博望侯。
是岁元朔六年也。
translation: 
And if we can really get them and make them our own with morality, then we can expand the territory of thousands of miles, and through many translations, attract people with different customs, so that the prestige and kindness of the emperor of the Han Dynasty can be spread all over the world.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was happy and thought Zhang Qian's words were right, so he ordered Zhang Qian to send secret envoys from Shu County and Jianwei County to set off in four groups at the same time: one from Zhan, one from Ran, one from Qi, and one from Qionbo, each traveling one or two thousand miles.
As a result, the northern route was blocked by Di and Zuo, and the southern route was blocked by Xi and Kunming.
Countries like Kunming had no rulers and were good at robbing and stealing. They often killed and robbed the Han Dynasty envoys, but the Han Dynasty envoys failed to pass.
However, I heard that more than a thousand miles west of Kunming, there was a country called Dianyue where the people rode elephants. Some of the merchants from Shu County who smuggled goods out of the country had been there, so the Han Dynasty began to communicate with the Dian Kingdom because they wanted to find a way to Daxia.
At first, the Han Dynasty wanted to open up the southwestern barbarians, but it wasted a lot of money and the road was not opened, so they gave up.
When Zhang Qian said that it was possible to connect to Daxia from the southwestern barbarians, the Han Dynasty resumed the work of opening up the southwestern barbarians.
Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Xiongnu as a captain. Because he knew where there were water and grass, the army could not be exhausted. The emperor named Zhang Qian the Marquis of Bowang.
This happened in the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.

summary:
summary line 3: Zhang Qian noted that in Daxia, he saw Qiong bamboo sticks and Shu cloth, bought from Shendu (India), suggesting a route from Shu. The emperor, intrigued by these wealthy states, sent envoys from Shu, but they were blocked by tribes like Kunming. Zhang Qian later joined General Wei Qing against the Xiongnu, earning the title Marquis of Bowang. After a failed campaign with Li Guang, he was reduced to commoner status.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
昆莫收养其民，攻旁小邑，控弦数万，习攻战。
单于死，昆莫乃率其众远徙，中立，不肯朝会匈奴。
匈奴遣奇兵击，不胜，以为神而远之，因羁属之，不大攻。
今单于新困於汉，而故浑邪地空无人。
蛮夷俗贪汉财物，今诚以此时而厚币赂乌孙，招以益东，居故浑邪之地，与汉结昆弟，其势宜听，听则是断匈奴右臂也。
既连乌孙，自其西大夏之属皆可招来而为外臣。
天子以为然，拜骞为中郎将，将三百人，马各二匹，牛羊以万数，赍金币帛直数千巨万，多持节副使，道可使，使遗之他旁国。
骞既至乌孙，乌孙王昆莫见汉使如单于礼，骞大惭，知蛮夷贪，乃曰： 天子致赐，王不拜则还赐。
昆莫起拜赐，其他如故。
translation: 
Kunmo adopted his people and attacked nearby small towns. Gradually, he had tens of thousands of soldiers who could draw bows and fight, and they were familiar with the skills of offensive warfare.
After Shanyu's death, Kunmo led his people to move far away, maintaining their independence and refusing to worship the Huns.
The Xiongnu sent a commando to attack Kunmo, but failed to win. They believed that Kunmo was a god and stayed away from him. They restrained and controlled him instead of launching a major attack on him.
Now Shan Yugang was very tired after being beaten by the Han Dynasty, and the place controlled by King Hunxie was unguarded.
The custom of the barbarians is to covet the property of the Han Dynasty. If Wusun can be gifted with rich property at this time to attract him to move eastward, live in the place formerly controlled by King Hunxie, and become brothers with the Han Dynasty, Kunmo should be able to accept it according to the situation. If he accepts this arrangement, then it will be like cutting off the right arm of the Huns.
After uniting Wusun, Daxia and other countries to its west can be recruited as foreign vassals.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that Zhang Qian was right and appointed him as Zhonglang General. He led 300 people, each with two horses, tens of thousands of cattle and sheep, and carried money, cloth and silk worth tens of millions. He also appointed many deputy envoys holding talismans. If the road could be opened, he would send them to neighboring countries.
Zhang Qian had arrived at Wusun, and King Kunmo of Wusun received the envoys of the Han Dynasty with the same etiquette as he treated the Xiongnu Chanyu. Zhang Qian felt ashamed in his heart. He knew that the barbarians were greedy, so he said: The emperor gives gifts, and if the king does not thank him, the gifts will be returned.
Kunmo stood up, thanked him, accepted the gift, and continued to do other things as usual.

summary:
summary line 4: The emperor, seeking to ally with Wusun, sent Zhang Qian as Zhonglang General with 300 men, gifts, and deputy envoys. Wusun's king, Kunmo, was hesitant due to Xiongnu influence and internal divisions. Zhang Qian dispatched deputies to various states. Wusun sent envoys to the Han Dynasty, impressed by its wealth. Zhang Qian died as Daxing, a high official.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
公卿及议者皆原罢击宛军，专力攻胡。
天子已业诛宛，宛小国而不能下，则大夏之属轻汉，而宛善马绝不来，乌孙、仑头易苦汉使矣，为外国笑。
乃案言伐宛尤不便者邓光等，赦囚徒材官，益发恶少年及边骑，岁馀而出敦煌者六万人，负私从者不与。
牛十万，马三万馀匹，驴骡橐它以万数。
多赍粮，兵弩甚设，天下骚动，传相奉伐宛，凡五十馀校尉。
宛王城中无井，皆汲城外流水，於是乃遣水工徙其城下水空以空其城。
益发戍甲卒十八万，酒泉、张掖北，置居延、休屠以卫酒泉，而发天下七科適，及载Я给贰师。
转车人徒相连属至敦煌。
而拜习马者二人为执驱校尉，备破宛择取其善马云。
於是贰师後复行，兵多，而所至小国莫不迎，出食给军。
translation: 
The ministers and deliberation officials all hoped to stop the military campaign against Dawan and concentrate their efforts on attacking the Xiongnu.
The emperor has attacked Dayuan, but Wan is a small country but failed to capture it. Then Daxia and other countries will despise the Han Dynasty, and Dayuan's good horses will never be obtained. Wusun and Luntai will easily cause trouble to the Han Dynasty envoys and be laughed at by foreigners.
So they punished Deng Guang and others who said that the crusade against Dawan was particularly unfavorable, pardoned prisoners and brave soldiers who had committed crimes, and sent more young men with bad conduct and border cavalry. In more than a year, 60,000 soldiers set out from Dunhuang, not including those who brought their own food and clothing to join the war.
These soldiers carried 100,000 cattle, more than 30,000 horses, and countless donkeys, camels and other items.
They also brought a lot of food and all kinds of weapons. At that time, the whole country was in turmoil. According to legend, there were more than fifty captains who were ordered to conquer Dawan.
There were no wells in King Wan's city, so they had to draw water from outside the city into the city. The Han Dynasty army sent hydraulic workers to change the water channels in the city so that there was no water available in the city.
The Han Dynasty also sent an additional 180,000 armored soldiers to garrison north of Jiuquan and Zhangye, and set up two counties, Juyan and Xiutu, to protect Jiuquan. The Han Dynasty also dispatched seven types of criminals across the country to carry dry food to supply the generals of the second division.
There was an endless stream of people transporting supplies, all the way to Dunhuang.
He also appointed two people who were familiar with horses as driving captains, preparing to select the best horses from Dawan after conquering it.
So the General of the Second Division went on another expedition, leading a large number of soldiers. Every small country he went to welcomed him, and they all provided food to the Han army.

summary:
summary line 5: Subsequently, the Han Dynasty established ties with Western Regions states, though envoys faced challenges from Xiongnu and local resistance. The emperor launched campaigns against Dawan for its horses, leading to two expeditions under Li Guangli. The first failed due to lack of supplies, but the second succeeded with a large army, capturing Dawan and securing horses. The Han Dynasty expanded its influence, setting up commanderies and protecting trade routes.

