Chunk 0: 
original: 
丞相公孙弘者，齐菑川国薛县人也，字季。
少时为薛狱吏，有罪，免。
家贫，牧豕海上。
年四十馀，乃学春秋杂说。
养後母孝谨。
建元元年，天子初即位，招贤良文学之士。
是时弘年六十，徵以贤良为博士。
使匈奴，还报，不合上意，上怒，以为不能，弘乃病免归。
元光五年，有诏徵文学，菑川国复推上公孙弘。
弘让谢国人曰： 臣已尝西应命，以不能罢归，原更推选。
国人固推弘，弘至太常。
太常令所徵儒士各对策，百馀人，弘第居下。
策奏，天子擢弘对为第一。
translation: 
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong was from Xue County, Sichuan State, Qi Prefecture, and his cousin's name was Ji.
When he was young, he worked as a prison officer in Xue County, but was dismissed due to his crimes.
His family was poor and had to go to the beach to herd pigs.
It wasn’t until he was in his forties that he studied the Spring and Autumn Annals and various works explaining the Spring and Autumn Annals.
He raised his stepmother with filial piety and prudence.
In the first year of Emperor Wu's founding, as soon as the emperor came to the throne, he recruited virtuous and literary people.
At this time, Gongsun Hong was sixty years old. He was recruited to Beijing as a virtuous person and became a doctor.
He was ordered to go on a mission to the Huns and reported the situation to Emperor Wu when he came back. The situation did not suit the emperor's wishes. The emperor was angry and thought Gongsun Hong was incompetent, so Gongsun Hong was excused from his post and returned home on the pretext of illness.
In the fifth year of Emperor Yuanguang's reign, the emperor issued an edict to recruit literature, and the Sichuan Kingdom recommended Gongsun Hong.
Gongsun Hong refused to give in to the people and said: I have gone west to the capital to accept the emperor's appointment, but I resigned from office because of incompetence and returned. Hope to change the recommended candidate.
However, the people of the country resolutely recommended Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong went to Taichang.
Taichang asked the more than 100 Confucian scholars recruited to make countermeasures respectively, and Gongsun Hong's countermeasures articles were ranked last.
All countermeasure articles were sent to the emperor, and Emperor Wu promoted Gongsun Hong's countermeasure article to first place.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
召入见，状貌甚丽，拜为博士。
是时通西南夷道，置郡，巴蜀民苦之，诏使弘视之。
还奏事，盛毁西南夷无所用，上不听。
弘为人恢奇多闻，常称以为人主病不广大，人臣病不俭节。
弘为布被，食不重肉。
後母死，服丧三年。
每朝会议，开陈其端，令人主自择，不肯面折庭争。
於是天子察其行敦厚，辩论有馀，习文法吏事，而又缘饰以儒术，上大说之。
二岁中，至左内史。
弘奏事，有不可，不庭辩之。
尝与主爵都尉汲黯请间，汲黯先发之，弘推其後，天子常说，所言皆听，以此日益亲贵。
尝与公卿约议，至上前，皆倍其约以顺上旨。
translation: 
Gongsun Hong was summoned to see the emperor. Emperor Wu saw that he was very beautiful and made him a doctor.
At this time, the Han Dynasty opened a road to the southwestern Yi and set up counties and counties there. The people of Bashu felt poor about this, and the emperor ordered Gongsun Hong to inspect it.
Gongsun Hong returned from his inspection and reported to the emperor that it was useless to try his best to slander the southwestern barbarians. The emperor did not adopt his opinions.
Gongsun Hong was a majestic and strange man with extensive knowledge. He often said that the fault of the master is that he is not broad-minded, and the fault of the minister is that he is not frugal.
Gongsun Hong covered himself with a quilt and did not eat more than two kinds of meat or vegetables when eating.
When his stepmother died, he stayed in mourning for three years.
Every time he went to court to discuss political affairs with everyone, he always stated various things at the beginning and let the emperor make his own decisions. He refused to refute him face to face or argue in court.
So the emperor observed him and found that he was honest in character, good at talking, familiar with documents, laws and official affairs, and he could also use Confucian views to embellish him. The emperor liked him very much.
Within two years, he was promoted to Zuo Neishi.
Gongsun Hong reported matters to the emperor, but sometimes they were not accepted and he did not argue in the court.
He once asked the emperor to meet him in his spare time with his lord lieutenant Ji An. Ji An first asked the emperor a question, and Gongsun Hong then explained the problem clearly, and the emperor was often very happy.
Everything he said was accepted. From then on, Gongsun Hong became closer to the emperor day by day, and his status became more prominent.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
汲黯庭诘弘曰： 齐人多诈而无情实，始与臣等建此议，今皆倍之，不忠。
上问弘。弘谢曰： 夫知臣者以臣为忠，不知臣者以臣为不忠。
上然弘言。
左右幸臣每毁弘，上益厚遇之。
元朔三年，张欧免，以弘为御史大夫。
是时通西南夷，东置沧海，北筑朔方之郡。
弘数谏，以为罢敝中国以奉无用之地，原罢之。
於是天子乃使硃买臣等难弘置朔方之便。
发十策，弘不得一。
弘乃谢曰： 山东鄙人，不知其便若是，原罢西南夷、沧海而专奉朔方。
上乃许之。
汲黯曰： 弘位在三公，奉禄甚多。然为布被，此诈也。
上问弘。弘谢曰： 有之。
translation: 
He had made an agreement in advance with the ministers about the issues he wanted to discuss with the emperor, but when he came before the emperor, he broke the agreement and obeyed the emperor's will. Ji An rebuked Gongsun Hong at the court and said: Most of the people in Qi are deceitful and have no true feelings. He made this suggestion with us at the beginning, but now they have all violated it and are not loyal.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: People who know me think I am loyal, people who don't know me think I am disloyal.
The emperor agreed with Gongsun Hong's statement.
The favored ministers around the emperor often slandered Gongsun Hong, but the emperor treated Gongsun Hong more and more favorably.
In the third year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshuo reign, Zhang Ou was dismissed from office, and the emperor appointed Gongsun Hong as the imperial censor.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was opening up the southwestern barbarians, setting up Canghai County in the east and Shuofang County in the north.
Gongsun Hong repeatedly advised the emperor, believing that these practices were exhausting China and running useless places, and hoped to stop doing these things.
Therefore, Emperor Wu asked Zhu Maichen and others to use the favorable situation of setting up Shuofang County to question Gongsun Hong.
Zhu Maichen and others asked ten questions, but Gongsun Hong couldn't answer any of them.
Gongsun Hong apologized and said: I am a humble person from Shandong. I didn't know the benefits of building Shuo County. I hope to stop connecting with the southwestern Yi and setting up Canghai County, and concentrate on running Shuofang County.
The emperor agreed.
Ji An said: Gongsun Hong is in the position of the third Duke and has a lot of salary, but he is covered with quilt. This is fraud.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: "There is such a thing."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫九卿与臣善者无过黯，然今日庭诘弘，诚中弘之病。
夫以三公为布被，诚饰诈欲以钓名。
且臣闻管仲相齐，有三归，侈拟於君，桓公以霸，亦上僭於君。
晏婴相景公，食不重肉，妾不衣丝，齐国亦治，此下比於民。
今臣弘位为御史大夫，而为布被，自九卿以下至於小吏，无差，诚如汲黯言。
且无汲黯忠，陛下安得闻此言。
天子以为谦让，愈益厚之。卒以弘为丞相，封平津侯。
弘为人意忌，外宽内深。
诸尝与弘有卻者，虽详与善，阴报其祸。
杀主父偃，徙董仲舒於胶西，皆弘之力也。
食一肉脱粟之饭。故人所善宾客，仰衣食，弘奉禄皆以给之，家无所馀。
translation: 
Among the nine ministers, there is no one who is as good to me as Ji An, but he really hit on my fault when he challenged me in court today.
I have the noble status of the Three Lords but I cover myself with a blanket. It is indeed a clever deception in an attempt to gain a good reputation.
Moreover, I heard that Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi and had three residences. His luxury was comparable to that of the king of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi relied on Guan Zhong to dominate, which was also an act of disrespect for the superior king.
Yan Ying was the prime minister of Qi Jinggong. He did not eat more than two kinds of meat and vegetables during meals, and his concubines did not wear silk clothes. Qi State was governed very well. This is because Yan Ying looked after the people below.
Now that I am a royal censor, I am covered with a quilt. This means that there is no distinction between high and low among officials from Jiuqing and below, just like what Ji An said.
Besides, without Ji An's loyalty, how could His Majesty hear these words!
Emperor Wu thought that Gongsun Hong was humble and courteous, so he treated him more favorably. Finally, he made Gongsun Hong the prime minister and granted him the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
Gongsun Hong was suspicious and jealous, magnanimous on the outside, but deep inside.
Those who had enmity with Gongsun Hong, although Gongsun Hong got along well with them on the surface, he secretly caused trouble to others and took revenge.
It was Gongsun Hong's idea to kill his father Yan and reassign Dong Zhongshu to Jiaoxi as prime minister.
He only ate a meat dish and shelled coarse rice for each meal. His old friends and his favorite hangers-on all relied on him to provide food and clothing. Gongsun Hong's salary was used to provide for them, and the family had no money left.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
士亦以此贤之。
淮南、衡山谋反，治党与方急。弘病甚，自以为无功而封，位至丞相，宜佐明主填抚国家，使人由臣子之道。
今诸侯有畔逆之计，此皆宰相奉职不称，恐窃病死，无以塞责。
乃上书曰： 臣闻天下之通道五，所以行之者三。
曰君臣，父子，兄弟，夫妇，长幼之序，此五者天下之通道也。
智，仁，勇，此三者天下之通德，所以行之者也。
故曰 力行近乎仁，好问近乎智，知耻近乎勇 。
知此三者，则知所以自治；知所以自治，然後知所以治人。
天下未有不能自治而能治人者也，此百世不易之道也。
今陛下躬行大孝，鉴三王，建周道，兼文武，厉贤予禄，量能授官。
今臣弘罢驽之质，无汗马之劳，陛下过意擢臣弘卒伍之中，封为列侯，致位三公。
臣弘行能不足以称，素有负薪之病，恐先狗马填沟壑，终无以报德塞责。
translation: 
Scholars all thought he was wise for this reason.
The king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan rebelled, and when the court was in a hurry to investigate the accomplices, Gongsun Hong became seriously ill. He felt that he had no merit and was made a marquis. His official position was promoted to prime minister. He should assist the wise king to appease the country and make everyone follow the principles of being a minister.
Nowadays, the princes have plots to rebel against the imperial court. This is all the result of the prime minister's incompetence in his work. He is afraid that if he dies of illness silently, there will be no way to evade the responsibility.
So he wrote to the emperor and said: I heard that there are five kinds of normal ways in the world, and there are three kinds of virtues used to implement these five kinds of normal ways.
The order of king and minister, father and son, brother, husband and wife, and elder and younger are the common principles of the world.
Wisdom, benevolence and courage, these three aspects are the common virtues in the world and are used to practice the common way.
Therefore Confucius said: Working hard to practice is close to benevolence, liking to inquire is close to wisdom, knowing shame is close to courage.
If you know these three situations, you will know how to cultivate yourself. Know how to cultivate yourself, and then know how to govern others.
There is no one in the world who cannot cultivate himself but can govern others. This is a truth that remains unchanged for generations.
Now His Majesty personally practices great filial piety and uses the three kings as a reference to establish a way of governing the country like that of the Zhou Dynasty. It combines the talents and virtues of King Wen and King Wu, encourages talented people, gives them salaries, and awards official positions according to their talents.
Now that my talents are low and I have no hard work, Your Majesty specially promoted me from the ranks, made me a prince, and placed me in the position of the three princes.
My character and ability are not commensurate with this high official position, and I am often sick. I am afraid that I will die before your majesty's dogs and horses, and I will ultimately be unable to repay your majesty's kindness and prevarication.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
原归侯印，乞骸骨，避贤者路。
天子报曰： 古者赏有功，褎有德，守成尚文，遭遇右武，未有易此者也。
朕宿昔庶几获承尊位，惧不能宁，惟所与共为治者，君宜知之。
盖君子善善恶恶，君若谨行，常在朕躬。
君不幸罹霜露之病，何恙不已，乃上书归侯，乞骸骨，是章朕之不德也。
今事少间，君其省思虑，一精神，辅以医药。
因赐告牛酒杂帛。
居数月，病有瘳，视事。
元狩二年，弘病，竟以丞相终。
子度嗣为平津侯。
度为山阳太守十馀岁，坐法失侯。
主父偃者，齐临菑人也。学长短纵横之术，晚乃学易、春秋、百家言。
游齐诸生间，莫能厚遇也。
齐诸儒生相与排摈，不容於齐。
家贫，假贷无所得，乃北游燕、赵、中山，皆莫能厚遇，为客甚困。
孝武元光元年中，以为诸侯莫足游者，乃西入关见卫将军。
卫将军数言上，上不召。
资用乏，留久，诸公宾客多厌之，乃上书阙下。
朝奏，暮召入见。
translation: 
I hope to return Hou Yin, resign and return home to make way for the sage.
Emperor Wu replied to him: In ancient times, people with meritorious service were rewarded and people with virtue were praised. To preserve the achievements of our ancestors, we must advocate literary and moral education, and when encountering disasters, we must advocate martial arts. This principle has not changed.
I was lucky enough to inherit the throne in the past, but I was afraid of being unrest and wanted to rule the world together with all the ministers. You should know this.
Gentlemen like kind people and hate ugly people. If you act carefully, you can always stay by my side.
Unfortunately, you are suffering from frost, dew, wind and cold. Why worry about not being cured? You actually submitted a letter to Hou Yin, resigned and returned home. This is to show my immorality!
Now that things are a little less complicated, you should reduce your thoughts, concentrate, and use medical assistance for treatment.
Therefore, Emperor Wu allowed Gongsun Hong to continue his leave and gave him cattle, wine and various cloths.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong's condition improved greatly, and he began to deal with political affairs.
The year before last, Gongsun Hong fell ill and eventually died as prime minister.
His son Gongsun Du inherited the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
Gongsun Du had been the governor of Shanyang for more than ten years, but he lost his title as a marquis for breaking the law.
Zhu Fuyan was a native of Linyi, Qidi. He studied the theories of political advisors during the Warring States Period. In his later years, he began to study the Zhouyi, Spring and Autumn Annals, and the theories of hundreds of schools of thought.
He traveled among many scholars in Qi, but no one was willing to treat him favorably.
Many scholars in Qi State rejected him together, making it impossible for him to stay in Qi State.
His family was poor and he couldn't borrow money from others, so he went to Yan, Zhao and Zhongshan in the north to study. No one in any place treated him favorably, so it was difficult to be a guest.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowu's Yuanguang year, he thought that all the vassal states were not worthy of study tours, so he went west to Hanguguan to meet General Wei Qing.
General Wei Qing recommended him to the emperor many times, but the emperor refused to summon him.
The money he brought had been spent, and he had been staying in Chang'an for a long time. The guests of the princes hated him, so he wrote to the emperor.
In the morning he presented the memorial, and in the evening the emperor summoned him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
所言九事，其八事为律令，一事谏伐匈奴。
其辞曰：
臣闻明主不恶切谏以博观，忠臣不敢避重诛以直谏，是故事无遗策而功流万世。
今臣不敢隐忠避死以效愚计，原陛下幸赦而少察之。
司马法曰： 国虽大，好战必亡；天下虽平，忘战必危。
天下既平，天子大凯，春蒐秋狝，诸侯春振旅，秋治兵，所以不忘战也。
且夫怒者逆德也，兵者凶器也，争者末节也。
古之人君一怒必伏尸流血，故圣王重行之。
夫务战胜穷武事者，未有不悔者也。
昔秦皇帝任战胜之威，蚕食天下，并吞战国，海内为一，功齐三代。
务胜不休，欲攻匈奴，李斯谏曰： 不可。
translation: 
Of the nine things he said, eight were about laws and regulations, and one was about the conquest of the Huns.
The original text says this:
I heard that a wise monarch does not dislike deep advice but observes widely, and a loyal minister does not dare to escape heavy punishment but speaks out advice. Therefore, good policies in handling national affairs cannot be lost, and the reputation will be passed down to the ages.
Now I dare not hide my loyalty and escape death, but I want to state my foolish thoughts to you. I hope that your majesty will forgive my sins and examine my thoughts a little.
"Sima Fa" says: Although the country is big, if it likes war, it will surely perish; although the world is peaceful, if it forgets war, it will be in danger.
The world has been peaceful, the emperor plays the music of "Dakai", and hunting activities are held in spring and autumn. The princes reorganize the army in spring and train the army in autumn, so as not to forget the war.
Moreover, anger is an act of rebellion, weapons are ominous, and fighting is the worst moral integrity.
In ancient times, whenever a ruler got angry, his corpse would lie on the ground and blood would spread all over the land. Therefore, the wise emperor was very cautious in dealing with anger.
Those who are committed to winning wars and resorting to militarism will always regret it in the end.
In the past, Qin Shihuang relied on his military power to defeat his opponents, encroaching on the world, annexing various warring countries, and unifying the world. His achievements were the same as those of the founding kings of the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties.
But he was determined to win and refused to give up. He actually wanted to attack the Huns. Li Si advised: "You cannot attack the Xiongnu."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫匈奴无城郭之居，委积之守，迁徙鸟举，难得而制也。
轻兵深入，粮食必绝；踵粮以行，重不及事。
得其地不足以为利也，遇其民不可役而守也。
胜必杀之，非民父母也。
靡弊中国，快心匈奴，非长策也。
秦皇帝不听，遂使蒙恬将兵攻胡，辟地千里，以河为境。
地固泽卤，不生五穀。
然後发天下丁男以守北河。
暴兵露师十有馀年，死者不可胜数，终不能逾河而北。
是岂人众不足，兵革不备哉？
其势不可也。
又使天下蜚刍輓粟，起於黄、腄、琅邪负海之郡，转输北河，率三十锺而致一石。
男子疾耕不足於粮饟，女子纺绩不足於帷幕。
translation: 
The Xiongnu had no city to live in and no accumulation of property to defend. They moved around like birds flying, making it difficult to catch and control them.
If a light army is sent deep into the Xiongnu, the army's food supplies will be cut off; if a large amount of food is sent into the Xiongnu, it will be heavy and difficult to transport, and it will not help.
Even if we get the land of the Xiongnu, there is no profit to be gained, and when we encounter the Xiongnu people, we cannot use them to protect them.
To defeat them is to kill them, which is not what a king who is the father of his people should do.
It is not a good policy to make the country tired and enjoy fighting the Huns.
Qin Shihuang did not adopt Li Si's suggestion, so he sent Meng Tian to lead his troops to attack the Xiongnu, opening up thousands of miles of land and using the Yellow River as the national boundary.
These lands are originally saline-alkali lands and do not produce grains.
After that, the Qin Dynasty mobilized adult men from all over the country to guard the Beihe area.
The army stayed in the wind, sand and sun for more than ten years. Countless people died, and they were never able to cross the Yellow River and march north.
Is this because there are not enough people and weapons and equipment?
No, this is not allowed by the situation!
The Qin Dynasty also asked people all over the world to quickly transport grain and grass, starting from the counties near the sea in Huang County, Xiang County and Langxie County, and then transferring it to Beihe. Generally speaking, it took thirty minutes to transport grain to get one stone.
Men's hard work in farming cannot meet the needs of food and wages, and women's spinning of linen and linen cannot meet the needs of the army's curtains.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
百姓靡敝，孤寡老弱不能相养，道路死者相望，盖天下始畔秦也。
及至高皇帝定天下，略地於边，闻匈奴聚於代谷之外而欲击之。
御史成进谏曰： 不可。
夫匈奴之性，兽聚而鸟散，从之如搏影。
今以陛下盛德攻匈奴，臣窃危之。
高帝不听，遂北至於代谷，果有平城之围。
高皇帝盖悔之甚，乃使刘敬往结和亲之约，然後天下忘干戈之事。
故兵法曰 兴师十万，日费千金 。
夫秦常积众暴兵数十万人，虽有覆军杀将系虏单于之功，亦適足以结怨深雠，不足以偿天下之费。
夫上虚府库，下敝百姓，甘心於外国，非完事也。
夫匈奴难得而制，非一世也。
translation: 
The people were exhausted, orphans, widows, old and weak people were provided for, and people died one after another on the road. Probably because of these reasons, the people of the world began to rebel against the Qin Dynasty.
When Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty pacified the world and captured the border lands, he heard that the Huns were gathering outside the valley of Daijun, so he wanted to attack them.
Yushi Chengjin admonished: Do not attack the Xiongnu.
The habits of the Xiongnu are like the gathering of animals and the flight of birds. Chasing them is like catching shadows.
Now I think it is dangerous to rely on His Majesty's virtue to attack the Huns.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty did not accept his suggestion and marched north to the valley of Daijun. As expected, he was in danger of being besieged by Pingcheng.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty probably regretted it, so he sent Liu Jing to the Xiongnu to conclude a peace treaty. After that, people all over the world forgot about the war.
Therefore, "Sun Tzu's Art of War" says: Sending an army of one hundred thousand will cost thousands of gold every day.
The Qin Dynasty often gathered hundreds of thousands of people and troops. Although it had military achievements in annihilating enemy troops, killing enemy generals, and capturing the Xiongnu Chanyu, it was just enough to create deep hatred and hatred, and it was not enough to compensate for the resources consumed by the country.
This kind of thing that empties the national treasury at the top and exhausts the people at the bottom, and is famous abroad but makes the heart happy, is not a perfect thing.
That the Xiongnu was difficult to control was not a matter of one generation.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
行盗侵驱，所以为业也，天性固然。
上及虞夏殷周，固弗程督，禽兽畜之，不属为人。
夫上不观虞夏殷周之统，而下近世之失，此臣之所大忧，百姓之所疾苦也。
且夫兵久则变生，事苦则虑易。
乃使边境之民弊靡愁苦而有离心，将吏相疑而外市，故尉佗、章邯得以成其私也。
夫秦政之所以不行者，权分乎二子，此得失之效也。
故周书曰 安危在出令，存亡在所用 。
原陛下详察之，少加意而熟虑焉。
是时赵人徐乐、齐人严安俱上书言世务，各一事。
徐乐曰：臣闻天下之患在於土崩，不在於瓦解，古今一也。
何谓土崩？
秦之末世是也。
translation: 
They steal wherever they go, plunder and drive, this is their profession, this is their nature.
Therefore, from the Yushun, Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, they did not supervise them according to the requirements of law and morality. They only treated them as animals, not as human beings.
We do not learn from the experience of Yu, Xia, Shang and Zhou, but follow the wrong practices of modern times. This is my biggest worry and is what makes the people feel painful.
Moreover, if the war lasts for a long time, chaos will occur; if things are difficult, thoughts will change.
This made the people on the border tired and miserable, and made the generals and officials suspicious of each other and colluded with foreigners, so that Wei Tuo and Zhang Han could realize their personal ambitions.
The reason why the Qin Dynasty's decrees could not be implemented was because the power of the country was divided between these two people. This is the effect of political gains and losses.
Therefore, "Book of Zhou" says: The safety of a country depends on the decrees issued by the king, and the survival of the country depends on the people the king uses.
I hope that your Majesty will examine this issue carefully, pay some attention to it, and think deeply about it.
At this time, Xu Le from Zhao and Yan An from Qi both wrote to the emperor to talk about major contemporary events, and each of them talked about one thing.
Xu said in his letter: I heard that the country's worry lies in the collapse of the country, not in disintegration. It has been the same from ancient times to the present.
What is landslide?
This was the case in the last years of the Qin Dynasty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
陈涉无千乘之尊，尺土之地，身非王公大人名族之後，无乡曲之誉，非有孔、墨、曾子之贤，陶硃、猗顿之富也，然起穷巷，奋棘矜，偏袒大呼而天下从风，此其故何也？
由民困而主不恤，下怨而上不知，俗已乱而政不脩，此三者陈涉之所以为资也。是之谓土崩。
故曰天下之患在於土崩。
何谓瓦解？
吴、楚、齐、赵之兵是也。
七国谋为大逆，号皆称万乘之君，带甲数十万，威足以严其境内，财足以劝其士民，然不能西攘尺寸之地而身为禽於中原者，此其故何也？
非权轻於匹夫而兵弱於陈涉也，当是之时，先帝之德泽未衰而安土乐俗之民众，故诸侯无境外之助。
translation: 
Chen She did not have the noble status of the princes, nor did he have an inch of fiefdom. He was not a descendant of a prince or a famous noble. He did not have the praise of his hometown people. He did not have the talents of Confucius, Mo Zhai, and Zeng Shen, and he did not have the wealth of Tao Zhu and Yidun. However, he raised troops from the poor countryside, brandishing halberds and spears, shouting with bare arms, and the people of the world responded to the news. What is the reason?
This is because the people are poor but the monarch does not know how to show consideration and care, the people are resentful but those in power do not know it, the secular world has been corrupted but the politics are not enlightened. These three are the objective conditions that Chen She relies on. This is called landslide.
Therefore, the country's worry lies in the collapse of the country.
What is disintegration?
This was the case with the military rebellions of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao.
Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms conspired to rebel. They all claimed to be kings of ten thousand chariots, and they had hundreds of thousands of armored warriors. Their majesty was enough to make the people of their feudal states fear them, and their wealth was enough to encourage the people of their feudal states. However, they could not seize a large amount of land to the west, but they themselves were captured in the Central Plains. What was the reason?
It's not that they have less power than the common people, or that their military strength is smaller than Chen She's, it's because at that time, the former emperor's ideas had not yet weakened, and there were many people who were content with their country and liked the customs, so the princes did not receive assistance from outside the country. This is called disintegration.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
此之谓瓦解，故曰天下之患不在瓦解。
由是观之，天下诚有土崩之势，虽布衣穷处之士或首恶而危海内，陈涉是也。况三晋之君或存乎！
天下虽未有大治也，诚能无土崩之势，虽有彊国劲兵不得旋踵而身为禽矣，吴、楚、齐、赵是也。况群臣百姓能为乱乎哉！
此二体者，安危之明要也，贤主所留意而深察也。
间者关东五穀不登，年岁未复，民多穷困，重之以边境之事，推数循理而观之，则民且有不安其处者矣。
不安故易动。易动者，土崩之势也。
故贤主独观万化之原，明於安危之机，脩之庙堂之上，而销未形之患。
其要，期使天下无土崩之势而已矣。
故虽有彊国劲兵，陛下逐走兽，射蜚鸟，弘游燕之囿，淫纵恣之观，极驰骋之乐，自若也。
金石丝竹之声不绝於耳，帷帐之私俳优侏儒之笑不乏於前，而天下无宿忧。
translation: 
Therefore, the country’s worry is not disintegration.
It can be seen from this that if the world is in a state of collapse, even if it is the common people in poverty, as long as one of them takes the initiative to cause trouble, the country may be harmed. This is the case with Chen She, not to mention that there may be kings like the Three Jins!
Even if the country does not have great governance, if it is really not in a state of collapse, even if there are powerful countries and powerful armies who rise up to rebel, they will be captured and destroyed in a blink of an eye. This is the case with Wu, Chu, Qi, Zhao and other countries, not to mention the officials and the people who rise up to rebel!
These two situations are obviously fundamental to the country's security. I hope that wise monarchs will pay more attention to them and investigate them deeply.
The grain harvest in the Kanto region has been poor recently, and the economy has not yet recovered. Most of the people are very poor. In addition, there are wars along the border. Judging from the development of the situation and common sense, the people will not be able to feel at ease in the local area.
If you are not at ease with your local area, it will be easy to flow, and if you are easy to flow, it will lead to a collapse of the situation.
Therefore, a wise monarch can alone see the various causes of changes in all things, clearly understand the key to safety, and only manage political affairs at the court, so as to eliminate unforeseen disasters.
The most critical thing is to try to prevent the country from falling apart.
Therefore, even if there is a powerful country and a powerful army, Your Majesty can still chase animals, shoot birds, expand the venues for banquets, watch and play with unrestrained indulgence, and enjoy the joy of riding horses and hunting, all in peace and ease.
The sound of playing various musical instruments is endless, the love with the beautiful woman in the curtain and the laughter of the actor and dwarf appear in front of me, but the country has no long-standing worries.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
名何必汤武，俗何必成康！
虽然，臣窃以为陛下天然之圣，宽仁之资，而诚以天下为务，则汤武之名不难侔，而成康之俗可复兴也。
此二体者立，然後处尊安之实，扬名广誉於当世，亲天下而服四夷，馀恩遗德为数世隆，南面负扆摄袂而揖王公，此陛下之所服也。臣闻图王不成，其敝足以安。
安则陛下何求而不得，何为而不成，何征而不服乎哉！
严安上书曰：
臣闻周有天下，其治三百馀岁，成康其隆也，刑错四十馀年而不用。
及其衰也，亦三百馀岁，故五伯更起。
五伯者，常佐天子兴利除害，诛暴禁邪，匡正海内，以尊天子。
五伯既没，贤圣莫续，天子孤弱，号令不行。
translation: 
Why does fame have to be like that of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou, and why does the secular world have to be as pure and beautiful as that of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou!
Once these two conditions are established, you can then be in a practical position of honor and safety, spread your good name in the contemporary era, expand your reputation, make people in the world close to you, and make people in the far corners of the world obey you. Your kindness and legacy will be passed down for generations. Facing the south, leaning against the screen, rolling up your sleeves, and bowing to the princes and nobles, this is what your majesty does. I heard that if you want to implement the king's way and govern the country, even if you don't succeed, the worst result can be to make the country peaceful.
As long as there is peace, is there anything your Majesty can't get if you want it? Is there anything you want to do that you can't do?
Who do you want to conquer? Is there anyone who refuses to surrender?
Yan An wrote a letter saying:
I heard that the Zhou Dynasty governed the world and governed the country very well for more than 300 years. The periods of King Cheng and King Kang were the most prosperous, and punishments were suspended for more than 40 years.
It took more than three hundred years until the political decline of the Zhou Dynasty, so the five hegemons could rise in turn.
The Five Hegemons often assist the emperor, promote benefits and eliminate harm, punish cruelty, prohibit evil, and support the right path in the world, so that the emperor can be honored.
After the death of all the five hegemons, there was no successor to the sage, leaving the emperor in an isolated and weak position, unable to issue orders.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
诸侯恣行，彊陵弱，众暴寡，田常篡齐，六卿分晋，并为战国，此民之始苦也。
於是彊国务攻，弱国备守，合从连横，驰车击毂，介胄生虮虱，民无所告愬。
及至秦王，蚕食天下，并吞战国，称号曰皇帝，主海内之政，坏诸侯之城，销其兵，铸以为锺虡，示不复用。
元元黎民得免於战国，逢明天子，人人自以为更生。
乡使秦缓其刑罚，薄赋敛，省繇役，贵仁义，贱权利，上笃厚，下智巧，变风易俗，化於海内，则世世必安矣。
秦不行是风而其故俗，为智巧权利者进，笃厚忠信者退；法严政峻，谄谀者众，日闻其美，意广心轶。
translation: 
The princes acted arbitrarily, the powerful bullied the weak, and those with many harmed those with few. Tian Chang usurped the power of Qi State, and the six ministers divided the land of Jin. Together, they formed the situation of disputes in the Warring States Period, which was the beginning of the suffering of the people.
Therefore, the strong countries are committed to war, while the weak countries prepare for war and defense, and the strategies of vertical and horizontal alliances emerge. Envoys' cars rush about at high speed, soldiers' armors and helmets are full of lice, and the people's sufferings have nowhere to complain.
During the Qin Dynasty, he encroached on the world and occupied the Warring States Period, claiming the title of emperor. Unify the domestic politics, destroy the capitals of the vassal states, destroy the weapons of the vassal states, and melt them into Zhongfu to show that they will no longer use force.
Only kind-hearted civilians can avoid the disasters of war. When they meet the wise emperor, everyone thinks they have gained a new life.
If the Qin Dynasty relaxed its punishments, levied less taxes, reduced corvee, respected benevolence and righteousness, despised power and interests, advocated loyalty, despised wisdom, changed customs, and educated the people in the country, then there would be peace for generations to come.
However, the Qin Dynasty did not promote this kind of politics, but followed the customs of the past, allowing those who specialized in clever and powerful things to be employed, while those who were loyal and honest were repulsed; the law was harsh, the politics was severe, and there were many flatterers. Hearing their praises every day, they were satisfied and imagined.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
欲肆威海外，乃使蒙恬将兵以北攻胡，辟地进境，戍於北河，蜚刍輓粟以随其後。
又使尉屠睢将楼船之士南攻百越，使监禄凿渠运粮，深入越，越人遁逃。
旷日持久，粮食绝乏，越人击之，秦兵大败。
秦乃使尉佗将卒以戍越。
当是时，秦祸北构於胡，南挂於越，宿兵无用之地，进而不得退。
行十馀年，丁男被甲，丁女转输，苦不聊生，自经於道树，死者相望。
及秦皇帝崩，天下大叛。
陈胜、吴广举陈，武臣、张耳举赵，项梁举吴，田儋举齐，景驹举郢，周市举魏，韩广举燕，穷山通谷豪士并起，不可胜载也。
translation: 
Wanting to show off his power overseas, he sent Meng Tian to lead his troops to attack the Xiongnu in the north, expand the land, advance the country's borders, and guard the area north of the Yellow River, asking the people to rush to transport grain and grass and follow them.
He also sent the lieutenant Tu Sui to lead the navy to attack Baiyue in the south, and sent the censor Shi Lu to dig a canal to transport grain and penetrate deeper into the country, causing more people to escape.
After a long stalemate, food was exhausted. The Yue people attacked the Qin soldiers, and the Qin soldiers were defeated.
Qin then sent Zhao Tuo to lead troops to guard the territory of Yue.
At this time, the Qin Dynasty was enmity with the Xiongnu in the north and the Yue in the south. It stationed troops in useless places and could only advance but not retreat.
After more than ten years, adult men put on armor and went to the battlefield, and adult women transported food. They were in pain and unable to live. Some hung from trees by the roadside, and they died one after another.
When Qin Shihuang died, most people in the world rebelled against the Qin Dynasty.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang captured Chen County, Wu Chen and Zhang Er captured Zhao Di, Xiang Liang captured Wu County, Tian Dan captured Qi Di, Jing Ju captured Ying, Zhou Shi captured Wei Di, Han Guang captured Yan Di, poor mountains and deep valleys, heroes and warriors rose up together, and I can't even remember them all.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
然皆非公侯之後，非长官之吏也。无尺寸之势，起闾巷，杖棘矜，应时而皆动，不谋而俱起，不约而同会，壤长地进，至于霸王，时教使然也。
秦贵为天子，富有天下，灭世绝祀者，穷兵之祸也。
故周失之弱，秦失之彊，不变之患也。
今欲招南夷，朝夜郎，降羌僰，略濊州，建城邑，深入匈奴，燔其茏城，议者美之。
此人臣之利也，非天下之长策也。
今中国无狗吠之惊，而外累於远方之备，靡敝国家，非所以子民也。
行无穷之欲，甘心快意，结怨於匈奴，非所以安边也。
祸结而不解，兵休而复起，近者愁苦，远者惊骇，非所以持久也。
今天下锻甲砥剑，桥箭累弦，转输运粮，未见休时，此天下之所共忧也。
夫兵久而变起，事烦而虑生。
translation: 
However, they are not the descendants of princes, nor are they subordinates of high officials. They have no small power. They rise from the alleys, armed with halberds and spears, and act according to the current situation. They raise armies at the same time without planning in advance, meet at the same time without agreement, continue to expand the land, and finally become overlords. This is what the education at that time made them like.
The Qin State was a noble emperor and a rich man who owned the world, but his country and family perished. This was the result of military violence.
Therefore, the defeat of the Zhou Dynasty was due to the weakness of the country, and the defeat of the Qin Dynasty was due to the strength of the country. This is a reason that will not change with time.
Now I want to recruit the Southern Yi to surrender, send Yelang to come to worship, surrender the Qiang and Bo, conquer the state, build a city, penetrate deeply into the Xiongnu, and burn their dragon city. Everyone who discusses this matter praises it.
This is the interest of the minister, not the long-term plan of the world.
Nowadays, China is not disturbed by barking dogs, but it is burdened by preparations for war in distant places, which makes the country ruined. This is not a way to raise people.
To realize endless desires, to make one's mind happy, and to have grudges with the Huns, this is not a way to stabilize the frontier.
Resentments that cannot be eliminated, wars that cease and re-emerge, causing sorrow to those close by and horror to those far away are not lasting solutions.
Nowadays, the whole country is forging armor, sharpening swords, straightening arrow shafts, accumulating bow strings, and transporting grain. There is no end in sight. This is a common concern for the people of the whole country.
If the war lasts for a long time, changes will occur, things will be complicated, and doubts will arise.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
今外郡之地或几千里，列城数十，形束壤制，旁胁诸侯，非公室之利也。
上观齐晋之所以亡者，公室卑削，六卿大盛也；下观秦之所以灭者，严法刻深，欲大无穷也。
今郡守之权，非特六卿之重也；地几千里，非特闾巷之资也；甲兵器械，非特棘矜之用也：以遭万世之变，则不可称讳也。
书奏天子，天子召见三人，谓曰： 公等皆安在？
何相见之晚也！
於是上乃拜主父偃、徐乐、严安为郎中。
数见，上疏言事，诏拜偃为谒者，迁为中大夫。一岁中四迁偃。
偃说上曰： 古者诸侯不过百里，彊弱之形易制。
今诸侯或连城数十，地方千里，缓则骄奢易为淫乱，急则阻其彊而合从以逆京师。
translation: 
Nowadays, there are thousands of miles of land in the outer counties and dozens of cities. The geographical situation of the mountains and rivers can control the people and coerce the nearby princes. This is not the interest of the royal family.
Look at the reason why Qi and Jin were destroyed in history. It was because the power of the officialdom was declining and the power of the Six Ministers was too great. Let’s look at the reason why Qin fell. It was because of the harsh criminal laws and endless desires.
Nowadays, the power of the county governor is not only as great as that of the six ministers; the land of thousands of miles is not just the use of Luxiang; the armor weapons and various ordnance are not just the use of halberds and spears. Under such objective conditions, if there is a major upheaval in the world, the consequences cannot be denied.
Xu Le and Yan An's memorials were sent to the emperor. The emperor summoned his father Yan, Xu Le and Yan An and said to them: "Where are you all?"
Why did we meet so late?
So Emperor Wu appointed the three of them as doctors. Master Fu Yan visited the emperor many times and discussed political affairs.
The emperor ordered him to be appointed as an emissary, and he was promoted to a senior official. In one year, Zhu Fuyan's position was promoted four times.
The master's father Yan persuaded the emperor: In ancient times, the land of the princes did not exceed a hundred miles, and the situation of strength and weakness was easy to control.
Some of today's princes actually own dozens of connected cities, and their land spans thousands of miles. When the situation in the world is relaxed, it is easy for them to be proud and extravagant and engage in lewd things. When the situation is urgent, they rely on their strength to unite to rebel against the court.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
今以法割削之，则逆节萌起，前日晁错是也。
今诸侯子弟或十数，而適嗣代立，馀虽骨肉，无尺寸地封，则仁孝之道不宣。
原陛下令诸侯得推恩分子弟，以地侯之。
彼人人喜得所原，上以德施，实分其国，不削而稍弱矣。
於是上从其计。
又说上曰： 茂陵初立，天下豪桀并兼之家，乱众之民，皆可徙茂陵，内实京师，外销奸猾，此所谓不诛而害除。
上又从其计。
尊立卫皇后，及发燕王定国阴事，盖偃有功焉。
大臣皆畏其口，赂遗累千金。
人或说偃曰： 太横矣。
主父曰： 臣结发游学四十馀年，身不得遂，亲不以为子，昆弟不收，宾客弃我，我戹日久矣。
translation: 
Now if their land is forcibly reduced by law, then they will rebel. This was the case with Chao Cuo in the past.
Nowadays, there are as many as a dozen children of princes, but only the eldest son inherits from generation to generation. Although the rest are also the flesh and blood of princes and kings, they have no land title, so the way of benevolence and filial piety cannot be shown.
I hope that your majesty will order the princes to promote kindness, divide the land among their children, and make them marquis.
Everyone of these disciples was happy to realize their wish. The emperor used this method to show kindness, but in fact he divided the territories of the princes and kings, without reducing their fiefdoms, but weakened their power.
So, the emperor followed his plan.
The master's father Yan also advised the emperor: Maoling has just established a county. We can move all the powerful and powerful families in the world and those who cause trouble to Maoling. The capital will be enriched inside and the cunning people will be eliminated outside. This is called eliminating the harm without killing.
The emperor obeyed his advice again.
For honoring Wei Zifu as the queen and for exposing the secrets of King Liu Dingguo of Yan, Zhufu Yan had meritorious service.
The ministers were all afraid of Zhufu Yan's mouth, and the sum of bribes and gifts to him amounted to thousands of gold.
Someone advised the master Yan and said: You are too outrageous.
Zhu Fuyan said: It has been more than forty years since I studied abroad in Shufa. My ambitions have not been realized. My parents do not regard me as their son. My brothers refuse to take me in. Guests have abandoned me. I have been poor for a long time.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
且丈夫生不五鼎食，死即五鼎烹耳。
吾日暮途远，故倒行暴施之。
偃盛言朔方地肥饶，外阻河，蒙恬城之以逐匈奴，内省转输戍漕，广中国，灭胡之本也。
上览其说，下公卿议，皆言不便。
公孙弘曰： 秦时常发三十万众筑北河，终不可就，已而弃之。
主父偃盛言其便，上竟用主父计，立朔方郡。
元朔二年，主父言齐王内淫佚行僻，上拜主父为齐相。
至齐，遍召昆弟宾客，散五百金予之，数之曰： 始吾贫时，昆弟不我衣食，宾客不我内门；今吾相齐，诸君迎我或千里。
吾与诸君绝矣，毋复入偃之门！
translation: 
Moreover, if a man cannot eat according to the Five Cauldrons while he is still alive, then he will be punished by being cooked in the Five Cauldrons when he dies.
I have reached the end of the day and the journey is far away, so I have to act in the opposite direction and act violently.
The master's father, Yan Sheng, said that the land in Shuofang was fertile and fertile, and the Yellow River was a danger outside. Meng Tian built a city here to expel the Xiongnu, and introspected the manpower and material resources for transshipment and guarding water transportation. This was the basis for expanding China's land and wiping out the Xiongnu.
After the emperor read his suggestion, he handed it over to the ministers for discussion. Everyone said it was unfavorable.
Gongsun Hong said: During the Qin Dynasty, 300,000 people were mobilized to build the city north of the Yellow River, but it was not completed and was soon abandoned.
Zhufu Yansheng thought it was beneficial, but the emperor actually adopted Zhufu Yan's strategy and established Shuofang County.
In the second year of Yuanshuo, the master's father Yan told the emperor about Qi King Liu Cijing's promiscuous and eccentric behavior in the palace, and the emperor appointed him as the prime minister of Qi.
The master's father came to the state of Qi, summoned his brothers and guests, distributed five hundred gold to them, and scolded them: "When I was poor at first, my brothers did not give me food and clothing, and my guests did not let me in. Now that I have made a formal appearance, some of the kings have gone thousands of miles away to welcome me."
I have severed all relations with you. Please do not enter my master's father's house again!


Chunk 19: 
original: 
乃使人以王与姊奸事动王，王以为终不得脱罪，恐效燕王论死，乃自杀。
有司以闻。
主父始为布衣时，尝游燕、赵，及其贵，发燕事。
赵王恐其为国患，欲上书言其阴事，为偃居中，不敢发。
及为齐相，出关，即使人上书，告言主父偃受诸侯金，以故诸侯子弟多以得封者。
及齐王自杀，上闻大怒，以为主父劫其王令自杀，乃徵下吏治。
主父服受诸侯金，实不劫王令自杀。
上欲勿诛，是时公孙弘为御史大夫，乃言曰： 齐王自杀无後，国除为郡，入汉，主父偃本首恶，陛下不诛主父偃，无以谢天下。
乃遂族主父偃。
主父方贵幸时，宾客以千数，及其族死，无一人收者，唯独洨孔车收葬之。
天子後闻之，以为孔车长者也。
太史公曰：公孙弘行义虽脩，然亦遇时。
汉兴八十馀年矣，上方乡文学，招俊乂，以广儒墨，弘为举首。
主父偃当路，诸公皆誉之，及名败身诛，士争言其恶。悲夫！
太皇太后诏大司徒大司空： 盖闻治国之道，富民为始；富民之要，在於节俭。
translation: 
So he sent someone to touch King Qi with the adultery between King Qi and his sister. King Qi thought that he could not escape the blame after all, and was afraid of being sentenced to death like King Yan Liu Dingguo, so he committed suicide.
The official in charge reported the matter to the emperor.
When Zhufu Yan first became a commoner, he traveled to Yan and Zhao. When he became a high official, he exposed the secrets of King Yan.
The King of Zhao was afraid that he would become a scourge to the State of Zhao, and wanted to write to the emperor to tell his secrets, because his father was buried in the court and he did not dare to expose it.
When he became the Prime Minister and walked out of Hangu Pass, the King of Zhao sent a letter to accuse his father Yan of accepting bribes from the princes. Therefore, many of the princes' sons were made princes for this reason.
When the King of Qi committed suicide, the emperor was furious when he heard about it. He thought that the master father Yan had threatened his king to commit suicide, so he handed it over to the officials for interrogation.
Zhu Fuyan admitted to accepting bribes from the princes, but actually did not threaten the King of Qi to commit suicide.
The emperor did not want to kill Zhufu Yan. At this time, Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, said to the emperor: The King of Qi committed suicide and had no descendants. The feudal state was abolished and turned into a county and returned to the imperial court. Zhufu Yan is the chief culprit in this matter. Your Majesty will not be able to explain it to the people of the world unless he kills Zhufu Yan.
So the emperor killed everyone in the father's family.
When the master's father Yan was being favored by dignitaries, there were thousands of guests. When he was exterminated and died, no one collected his body. Only Kongche, a man from Mixian County, collected his body and buried him.
The emperor later heard about this and thought that Kong Che was an elder.
Tai Shigong said: Although Gongsun Hong's moral behavior is beautiful, it is also because he encountered a good opportunity.
It has been more than eighty years since the founding of the Han Dynasty. The emperor was advocating Confucianism and recruiting talents with outstanding talents to develop Confucianism and Mohism. Gongsun Hong was the selected person.
Master Fu Yan was in an important position, and all the high-ranking officials in the court praised him. But when his reputation was ruined and he was killed, the scholars were all vying to talk about his bad qualities. How sad!
The Empress Dowager Wang Zhengjun issued an edict to the Grand Situ Ma Palace and the Grand Sikong Zhenfeng: I heard that the way to govern a country is to first make the people rich; the key to making the people rich is frugality.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
孝经曰 安上治民，莫善於礼 。 礼，与奢也宁俭 。
昔者管仲相齐桓，霸诸侯，有九合一匡之功，而仲尼谓之不知礼，以其奢泰侈拟於君故也。
夏禹卑宫室，恶衣服，後圣不循。
由此言之，治之盛也，德优矣，莫高於俭。
俭化俗民，则尊卑之序得，而骨肉之恩亲，争讼之原息。
斯乃家给人足，刑错之本也欤？可不务哉！
夫三公者，百寮之率，万民之表也。
未有树直表而得曲影者也。
孔子不云乎， 子率而正，孰敢不正 。 举善而教不能则劝 。
维汉兴以来，股肱宰臣身行俭约，轻财重义，较然著明，未有若故丞相平津侯公孙弘者也。
位在丞相而为布被，脱粟之饭，不过一肉。
故人所善宾客皆分奉禄以给之，无有所馀。
诚内自克约而外从制。
汲黯诘之，乃闻于朝，此可谓减於制度而可施行者也。
德优则行，否则止，与内奢泰而外为诡服以钓虚誉者殊科。
translation: 
"The Classic of Filial Piety" says: There is nothing better than using rituals to ensure peace for the emperor and to govern the people. Ritual, as luxurious as it is, would rather be frugal.
In the past, Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Duke Huan of Qi, who made Duke Huan of Qi dominate the princes, had nine princes, and made great achievements in rectifying the world. However, Zhongni said that he was ungrateful because he was extravagant and compared with the king.
Xia Yu lived in a small house and wore poor clothes. Later generations of saints did not follow his practices.
From this it can be said that when the country is politically prosperous, the king's virtues are not higher than frugality.
Educate the common people with the virtue of frugality, then the order of superiority and inferiority will be formed, the flesh-and-blood ties between parents and brothers will become closer, and the sources of disputes and lawsuits will disappear.
This is the fundamental reason why the family can provide enough people and the country can be cured without punishment. How can we not work hard to practice it!
The three princes are the commander-in-chief of hundreds of officials and the role model for all people.
There is no vertical sign but a curved shadow.
Didn’t Confucius once say: If you lead us on the right path, who dares not to follow the right path?  Select talented people and educate people with poor abilities, then people can be encouraged.
Since the prosperity of the Han Dynasty, the prime ministers who are the emperor's loyal ministers have personally practiced frugality, despised money, and valued morality. There is no one like the former prime minister Gongsun Hong, the Marquis of Pingjin.
Although he held the high official position of prime minister, he was covered with a cloth quilt and ate rough meals, with only one meat dish at each meal.
But for old friends and guests he likes, he allocates part of his salary to provide them, and he has no remaining money.
He is indeed able to exercise self-restraint on the inside, while acting in accordance with the law on the outside.
Ji An questioned him, and these things became known to the emperor. It can be said that this is lower than the regulations, but it can be implemented.
If you are virtuous, do it; otherwise, don't do it. This is different from someone who is extravagant secretly but pretends to be frugal on the outside in order to gain fame.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
以病乞骸骨，孝武皇帝即制曰 赏有功，襃有德，善善恶恶，君宜知之。
其省思虑，存精神，辅以医药 。
赐告治病，牛酒杂帛。
居数月，有瘳，视事。
至元狩二年，竟以善终于相位。
夫知臣莫若君，此其效也。
弘子度嗣爵，後为山阳太守，坐法失侯。
夫表德章义，所以率俗厉化，圣王之制，不易之道也。
其赐弘後子孙之次当为後者爵关内侯，食邑三百户，徵诣公车，上名尚书，朕亲临拜焉。
translation: 
He asked to retire and go home on the grounds of illness. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty immediately issued an order: Reward those who have meritorious service, praise those who are virtuous, like good people and hate bad people. This is what you should know.
I hope you will worry less, take care of your spirit, and then use medical-assisted treatment.
Granted him holidays, allowed him to be cured, and rewarded him with cattle, wine, and all kinds of cloth.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong recovered from his illness and went to court.
In the second year of Yuanshou, he finally died in the official position of prime minister.
No one knows the ministers better than the king. This is an example.
Gongsun Hong's son Gongsun Du inherited his father's title and later became the prefect of Shanyang. He lost the title of marquis for breaking the law.
The purpose of commending moral righteousness is to guide the people of the times and encourage and educate them. This is the system of the Holy King and cannot be changed.
The direct descendants of Gongsun Hong will be given the title of Marquis of Guannei and three hundred households in the city. They will be sent to the capital by bus and their names will be reported to the Minister. I will be present to confer the title in person.


