Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 6, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
东方朔字曼倩，平原厌次人也。
武帝初即位，征天下举方正贤良文学材力之士，待以不次之位，四方士多上书言得失，自衒鬻者以千数，其不足采者辄报闻罢。朔初来，上书曰： 臣朔少失父母，长养兄嫂。
年十三学书，三冬文史足用。
十五学击剑。
十六学《诗》、《书》，诵二十二万言。
十九学孙、吴兵法，战阵之具，钲鼓之教，亦诵二十二万言。
凡臣朔固已诵四十四万言。
又常服子路之言。
臣朔年二十二，长九尺三寸，目若悬珠，齿若编贝，勇若孟贲，捷若庆忌，廉若鲍叔，信若尾生。
若此，可以为天子大臣矣。臣朔昧死再拜以闻。
朔文辞不逊，高自称誉，上伟之，令待诏公车，奉禄薄，未得省见。
久之，朔绐驺朱儒，曰： 上以若曹无益于县官，耕田力作固不及人，临众处官不能治民，从军击虏不任兵事，无益于国用，徒索衣食，今欲尽杀若曹。
朱儒大恐，啼泣。
朔教曰： 上即过，叩头请罪。
居有顷，闻上过，朱儒皆号泣顿首。上问： 何为？
对曰： 东方朔言上欲尽诛臣等。
上知朔多端，召问朔： 何恐朱儒为？
对曰： 臣朔生亦言，死亦言。
朱儒长三尺余，奉一囊粟，钱二百四十。
臣朔长九尺余，亦奉一囊粟，钱二百四十。
朱儒饱欲死，臣朔饥欲死。
臣言可用，幸异其礼；不可用，罢之，无令但索长安米。
上大笑，因使待诏金马门，稍得亲近。
translation: 
Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County.
Not long after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he asked the world to recommend scholars with talents such as integrity, virtuousness, and literature, and appointed them with special positions. Scholars from all over the world wrote letters to discuss the gains and losses of national affairs. As soon as Dongfang Shuo arrived in Chang'an, he wrote a letter saying: I, Dongfang Shuo, lost his parents when he was young and was raised by his brother and sister-in-law.
He started studying at the age of thirteen and learned writing and note-taking in three years.
Learned fencing at the age of fifteen.
At the age of sixteen, he studied the Book of Songs and Shangshu and recited 220,000 words.
At the age of nineteen, he studied Sun Wu's Art of War, and recited 220,000 words on battle formations, control of the advance and retreat of troops during battles, etc.
I memorized a total of 440,000 words.
He is also often familiar with Zilu's remarks.
I am twenty-two years old, nine feet three inches tall, my eyes are as bright as hanging pearls, my teeth are as neat and white as strings of shells, I am as brave as Meng Ben, as agile as Qing Ji, as honest as Uncle Bao, and as trustworthy as Weisheng.
A person like this can be a minister of the emperor. My minister Dongfang Shuo risked his life to pay homage to the emperor again.
Dongfang Shuo's letter was not modest, but he praised and promoted himself. However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he was a great man and ordered him to stay with Shao in the Gongche Mansion. However, his salary was meager and he could not receive an interview from Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo once coaxed the dwarf who guarded the royal horse pen and said: The emperor thinks that you people are of no use to the court. Of course, you cannot keep up with others in farming. You are an official above the people and cannot manage civil affairs. You are not qualified to fight with soldiers when you join the army. You are of no use to the country. You will only waste food and clothing. Now the emperor wants to kill you all.
The dwarfs were very frightened and cried.
Dongfang Shuo instigated them and said: The emperor is about to pass by here, you must kowtow and apologize.
After meeting for a while, they heard that the emperor was passing by, and the dwarfs all knelt on the ground and kowtowed in tears. The emperor asked: Why are you doing this?
The dwarfs replied: Dongfang Shuo said that the emperor wants to kill us all.
The emperor knew that Dongfang Shuohuahua had a lot of intestines, so he summoned Dongfang Shuo and asked him: Why did you threaten those dwarfs?
Dongfang Shuo replied: My minister Dongfang Shuo will say it even when he is alive, and he will say it even after he is dead.
The dwarf is more than three feet tall and his salary is two hundred and forty yuan for a bag of millet.
The minister Dongfang Shuo is more than nine feet tall, and his salary is a bag of millet, worth two hundred and forty yuan.
The dwarf was starving to death, and his minister Dongfang Shuo was starving to death.
If my words can be accepted, I hope you will change your etiquette towards me; if not, please let me go home and don't let me eat rice from Chang'an in vain.
Emperor Wu laughed when he heard this, so he asked Dongfang Shuo to wait for Shao Jin Mamen, and gradually gained the emperor's closeness.

summary:
summary line 0: Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County. After Emperor Wu of Han ascended the throne, he sought scholars of integrity and literature. Dongfang Shuo wrote a letter to the emperor, boasting of his abilities: he studied writing at thirteen, fencing at fifteen, and by sixteen had memorized 220,000 words of the *Book of Songs* and *Shangshu*. At nineteen, he memorized another 220,000 words of Sun Wu's *Art of War*. He described himself as tall, brave, agile, honest, and trustworthy, claiming he could serve as a minister. Emperor Wu, impressed by his audacity, ordered him to stay at the Gongche Mansion, though his salary was meager and he received no audience.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
上尝使诸数家射覆，置守宫盂下，射之，皆不能中。朔自赞曰： 臣尝受《易》，请射之。
乃别蓍布卦而对曰： 臣以为龙又无角，谓之为蛇又有足，跂跂脉脉善缘壁，是非守宫即蜥蜴。
上曰： 善。
赐帛十匹。
复使射他物，连中，辄赐帛。
时，有幸倡郭舍人，滑稽不穷，常侍左右，曰： 朔狂，幸中耳，非至数也。
臣愿令朔复射，朔中之，臣榜百，不能中，臣赐帛。
乃覆树上寄生，令朔射之。朔曰： 是寠薮也。
舍人曰： 果知朔不能中也。
朔曰： 生肉为脍，干肉为脯；著树为寄生，盆下为寠薮。
上令倡监榜舍人，舍人不胜痛，呼謈。
朔笑之曰： 咄！口无毛，声謷謷，尻益高。
舍人恚曰： 朔擅诋欺天子从官，当弃市。
上问朔： 何故诋之？
对曰： 臣非敢诋之，乃与为隐耳。 上曰： 隐云何？
朔曰： 夫口无毛者，狗窦也；声謷謷者，鸟哺鷇也；尻益高者，鹤俯啄也。
舍人不服，因曰： 臣愿复问朔隐语，不知，亦当榜。
即妄为谐语曰： 令壶龃，老柏涂，伊优亚，狋吽牙。
何谓也？
朔曰： 令者，命也。
壶者，所以盛也。
龃者，齿不正也。
老者，人所敬也。
柏者，鬼之廷也。
涂者，渐洳径也。
伊优亚者，辞未定也。
狋吽牙者，两犬争也。
舍人所问，朔应声辄对，变诈锋出，莫能穷者，左右大惊。
上以朔为常侍郎，遂得爱幸。
久之，伏日，诏赐从官肉。
translation: 
Emperor Wu once asked some magicians who were good at divination to cover the gecko under a basin and asked them to guess what it was, but they couldn't guess it. Dongfang Shuo introduced himself and said: I once studied "Yi", please allow me to guess what it is.
So he arranged the yarrow into various hexagrams and replied: I think it is a dragon without horns, but I think it is a snake with legs, its limbs are connected by pulses, and it is good at climbing walls. This thing is either a gecko or a lizard.
The emperor said: You guessed it right.
Give him ten pieces of silk.
He was also asked to guess other things, and he guessed correctly every time. He was given silk every time.
At that time, there was a favored actor Guo Sheren in the palace. He was very funny and often accompanied Emperor Wu. He said: Dongfang Shuo is too crazy. It was just a lucky guess. There is no real magic.
I hope to let Dongfang Shuo guess again. If he guesses correctly, he will give me a hundred lashes; if he guesses incorrectly, he will give me silk.
So he put the parasitic thing growing on the tree under the pot and asked Dongfang Shuo to guess what it was. Dongfang Shuo said: It is Baosou.
Guo Sheren said: I really know that Dongfang Shuo will not guess correctly.
Dongfang Shuo said: Raw meat is called 荍, dried meat is called preserved meat, attached to a tree is called parasite, and covered under a basin is called dou sau.
The emperor ordered Chang Jian to whip Guo Sheren. Guo Sheren was in unbearable pain and howled loudly.
Dongfang Shuo laughed at him and said: Hey, there is no hair on his mouth, he is screaming, and his butt is getting higher and higher.
Guo Sheren said angrily: Dongfang Shuo dared to slander and insult the emperor's attendants. He should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
The emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Why did you slander and insult him?
Dongfang Shuo replied: I dare not slander or insult him, I just told him a riddle. The emperor asked: What riddle are you talking about?
Dongfang Shuo said: The hairless mouth is a dog hole; the cry is the cry of a mother bird when feeding her chicks; the buttocks are getting higher and higher, which is the look of a crane lowering its head to peck at food.
Guo Sheren was not convinced and said, "I hope to ask Dongfang Shuo a riddle as well. If he doesn't know it, he should also be whipped."
He immediately made up a riddle with homophonic sounds and said: Ling Huhan, Lao Botu, Yiyouya, Biaopanya.
What is said?
Dongfang Shuo said: Ling is an order.
Pots are used to hold things.
It means the teeth are not straight.
Lao is an old man that everyone respects.
Bai is the palace of ghosts.
Painting is a road that is soaked.
Iyoya's words were slurred.
Biaopanya is a fight between two dogs.
Dongfang Shuo answered Guo She's riddles in the world, with many clever and clever changes. No riddle could stump him, and everyone present was very surprised.
The emperor appointed Dongfang Shuo as the Chang Shilang, and he gained the favor and favor of Emperor Wu.
After a long time, on a doggy day, Emperor Wu ordered that meat be rewarded to the attendant officials.

summary:
summary line 1: Dongfang Shuo once tricked the dwarfs guarding the royal horse pen, claiming the emperor planned to kill them for being useless. When the dwarfs tearfully begged the emperor, he summoned Dongfang Shuo, who argued that the dwarfs were short and received the same salary as him, a tall man, leading to unfairness. Emperor Wu laughed and promoted him to a closer position. Later, Dongfang Shuo correctly guessed a gecko under a basin using the *I Ching*, earning silk rewards. When a courtier challenged him, he guessed a parasitic growth on a tree, proving his skill. He also cleverly deflected accusations of slander with riddles, impressing the emperor, who appointed him Chang Shilang.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
大官丞日晏下来，朔独拔剑割肉，谓其同官曰： 伏日当蚤归，请受赐。
即怀肉去。
大官奏之。
朔入，上曰： 昨赐肉，不待诏，以剑割肉而去之，何也？
朔免冠谢。
上曰： 先生起，自责也！
朔再拜曰： 朔来！
朔来！
受赐不待诏，何无礼也！
拔剑割肉，一何壮也！
割之不多，又何廉也！
归遗细君，又何仁也！
上笑曰： 使先生自责，乃反自誉！
复赐酒一石，肉百斤，归遗细君。
初，建元三年，微行始出，北至池阳，西至黄山，南猎长杨，东游宜春。
微行常用饮酎已。
八九月中，与侍中常侍武骑及待诏陇西北地良家子能骑射者期诸殿门，故有 期门 之号自此始。
微行以夜漏下十刻乃出，常称平阳侯。
旦明，入山下驰射鹿豕狐兔，手格熊罴，驰骛禾稼稻粳之地。民皆号呼骂詈，相聚会，自言鄠杜令。
令往，欲谒平阳侯，诸骑欲击鞭之。
令大怒。使吏呵止，猎者数骑见留，乃示以乘舆物，久之乃得去。
时夜出夕还，后赍五日粮，会朝长信官，上大欢乐之。
是后，南山下乃知微行数出也，然尚迫于太后，未敢远出。
丞相御史知指，乃使右辅都尉徼循长杨以东，右内史发小民共待会所。
后乃私置更衣，从宣曲以南十二所，中休更衣，投宿诸宫，长杨、五柞、倍阳、宣曲尤幸。
translation: 
The high official did not come to divide the meat until nightfall, so Dongfang Shuo drew his sword and cut the meat alone, saying to his colleagues: "I should go home early in the dog days of summer. Please allow me to accept the emperor's reward."
Then he wrapped the meat in his arms and left.
Daguancheng reported this matter to the emperor.
When Dongfang Shuo entered the palace, Emperor Wu said: Yesterday, you gave me meat, but you cut the meat with your sword and left without waiting for the order to be issued. Why is this?
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and knelt down to apologize.
The emperor said: Sir, stand up and blame yourself.
Dongfang Shuo paid his respects again and said: Dongfang Shuo!
Dongfang Shuo!
How rude to accept a reward without waiting for the order to be issued!
Drawing a sword to cut flesh, how heroic!
Not much meat is cut, but how honest it is!
How kind it is to go home and give meat to your wife to eat!
The emperor smiled and said: Mr. Jean blames himself, but he actually praises himself!
He also gave him a stone of wine and a hundred catties of meat and asked him to go home and give them to his wife.
At the beginning, in the third year of Jianyuan, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to travel incognito, traveling to Chiyang Palace in the north, Huangshan Palace in the west, Changyang Palace in the south, and Yichun Palace in the east.
Traveling in private is often done every year when the new wine is brewed and drank in the ancestral temple.
In August and September, the emperor agreed to wait at the gate of the palace with his attendants, regular attendants, and martial cavalry, as well as the good men from Longxi County and Beidi County in Shaoguan who were good at riding and shooting. Therefore, the title of "Qimen" came from this time.
When Emperor Wu traveled incognito, he would wait ten quarters at night before setting off, often pretending to be Cao Shou, Marquis of Pingyang.
At dawn the next day, when they arrived at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain, they shot deer, pigs, foxes and rabbits, or struck bears with their bare hands, running through the rice fields. The farmers shouted and cursed loudly, gathered together, and complained to the magistrates of Yuxian and Duxian counties.
The county magistrate went to the hunting place and asked to see Pingyang Hou. The attendants on horseback wanted to whip the magistrate.
The county magistrate was furious, and his subordinates scolded and stopped him. Several horsemen who were hunting were detained, so they took out the emperor's royal belongings and struggled for a long time before they were able to leave.
At the beginning, the emperor left the palace late at night and returned the next evening. Later, he carried food for five days. He did not return to the capital until the fifth day when it was time to go to Changxin Palace to see the Queen Mother.
Emperor Wu liked this kind of hunting in disguise very much. After that, the people at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain learned that the emperor often went hunting incognito, but Emperor Wu was still under pressure from the Queen Mother and did not dare to travel far.
The Prime Minister and Censor knew the emperor's intentions, so he sent Lieutenant You Fu to patrol east of Changyang Palace, and ordered You Neishi to recruit civilians and go to the place where the emperor hunted to wait for orders.
Later, dressing rooms were privately set up for the emperor, and palace staff were also assigned. A total of twelve dressing rooms were set up from the south of Xuanqu Palace for the emperor to rest and change during the day, and to stay in various palaces at night. Emperor Wu often visited Changyang, Wuzha, Beiyang, Xuanqu and other palaces.

summary:
summary line 2: On a dog day, Dongfang Shuo cut meat from the emperor's reward without waiting for orders, taking it home. When questioned, he humorously blamed himself, praising his own actions, which amused Emperor Wu, who rewarded him with wine and meat. Emperor Wu often hunted incognito, causing distress to farmers. He planned to build Shanglin Garden, but Dongfang Shuo admonished him, citing three reasons: it would ruin fertile land, destroy homes and tombs, and waste resources. He warned against luxury, referencing historical examples like King Zhou of Yin and Qin Shihuang. Despite this, Emperor Wu built the garden but promoted Dongfang Shuo to Taizhong doctor.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
一日卒有不胜洒扫之职，先狗马填沟壑，窃有所恨，不胜大愿，愿陛下时忘万事，养精游神，从中掖庭回舆，枉路临妾山林，得献觞上寿，娱乐左右。
如是而死，何恨之有！ 上曰： 主何忧？
幸得愈。
恐群臣从官多，大为主费。
上还，有顷，主疾愈，起谒，上以钱千万从主饮。
后数日，上临山林，主自执宰敝膝，道入登阶就坐。
坐未定，上曰： 愿谒主人翁。
主乃下殿，去簪珥，徒跣顿首谢曰： 妾无状，负陛下，身当伏诛。
陛下不致之法，顿首死罪。
有诏谢。
主簪履起，之东厢自引董君。
董君绿帻傅韝，随主前，伏殿下。
主乃赞： 馆陶公主胞人臣偃昧死再拜谒。
因叩头谢，上为之起。
有诏赐衣冠上。
偃起，走就衣冠。
主自奉食进觞。
当是时，董君见尊不名，称为 主人翁 ，饮大欢乐。
主乃请赐将军、列侯、从官金钱杂缯各有数。于是董君贵宠，天下莫不闻。
郡国狗马蹴鞠剑客辐凑董氏。
常从游戏北宫，驰逐平乐，观鸡鞠之会，角狗马之足，上大欢乐之。
于是上为窦太主置酒宣室，使谒者引内董君。
是时，朔陛戟殿下，辟戟而前曰： 董偃有斩罪三，安得入乎？
上曰： 何谓也？
朔曰： 偃以人臣私侍公主，其罪一也。
败男女之化，而乱婚姻之礼，伤王制，其罪二也。
陛下富于春秋，方积思于《六经》，留神于王事，驰骛于唐、虞，折节于三代，偃不遵经劝学，反以靡丽为右，奢侈为务，尽狗马之乐，极耳目之欲，行邪枉之道，径淫辟之路，是乃国家之大贼，人主之大蜮。
偃为淫首，其罪三也。
昔伯姬燔而诸侯惮，奈何乎陛下？
上默然不应良久，曰： 吾业以设饮，后而自改。
translation: 
If one day I am suddenly unable to fulfill my duties in serving the Emperor, and I have to fill the gap first, I feel regretful privately that I cannot fulfill my wish to repay His Majesty. I hope that Your Majesty can sometimes forget about government affairs, recuperate his spirit, and walk a few more steps to visit my mansion when returning from the courtyard, so that I can offer wine to His Majesty on his birthday and be by your side to make you happy.
If you can do this, even if you are dead, what regrets will there be! The emperor said: What is your Majesty worried about?
Hope you recover soon.
I'm worried that there will be too many ministers and attendants accompanying you, which will cost you too much.
After Emperor Wu finished speaking, he returned to the palace. Soon, the Taishu recovered from his illness and went to court to see the emperor. The Emperor spent 10 million yuan to buy a banquet and drink with the Taishu.
A few days later, Emperor Wu came to the Grand Master's mansion. The Grand Master put on a cook's apron and personally led Emperor Wu into the mansion. He climbed up the steps and invited Emperor Wu to sit down in the hall.
Before he could sit down, Emperor Wu said: I hope to meet the protagonist.
The Grand Master hurriedly went down to the palace, took off the hairpin and earrings, kowtowed with bare feet and apologized, saying: "I have no face to see others, I have failed Your Majesty, and I have committed a capital crime."
Your Majesty will not accuse me of any crime, but I will kowtow to plead guilty.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to absolve the Grand Master of his crime.
The Grand Master put on the hairpin and shoes, stood up, and went to the Shuxiang Room to lead Dong Yan out.
Dong Yan, wearing the green scarf used by servants to wrap their heads and sleeves, followed the Grand Master to the front of the palace and fell prostrate to the ground.
The Grand Master then introduced: Dong Yan, the cook of Princess Guantao, risked his life to pay homage to the Emperor.
Dong Yan took the opportunity to kowtow and plead guilty, and the emperor asked him to get up.
The imperial edict gave him clothes and hats to allow him to go to the palace.
Dong Yan got up, went to change clothes and sit down.
The Grand Master personally presented food and toasts to Emperor Wu.
At this time, although Dong Yan was respected but without a title, he was called the "master". The king and his ministers drank happily and were extremely happy.
The Grand Master then presented a large amount of gold, money, and various colored silks, and asked Emperor Wu to give them to the generals, princes, and attendant officials. From then on, Dong Yan became more prominent and favored, and everyone in the world knew about him.
Dog racing, horse racing, football, and swordsmen from various counties gathered around Dong Yan.
Dong Yan often followed Emperor Wu to play games in Beigong, go to Shanglin Garden to enjoy horse racing and hunting, and watch cockfighting, football, dog racing, horse racing and other games. The emperor liked these entertainments very much.
So the emperor held a banquet in the Xuan room to entertain Mrs. Dou, and sent an audience to introduce Dong Yan into the palace.
At this time, Dongfang Shuo was guarding under the palace steps with his halberd. He put down his halberd and stepped forward and said to Emperor Wu: "Dong Yan has committed three crimes that deserve to be beheaded. How can he be allowed to enter the palace?"
The emperor said: What is the crime?
Dongfang Shuo said: As a subject of the emperor, Dong Yan served the princess privately. This was the first crime.
Corrupting the moral etiquette between men and women, disrupting the marriage ceremony, and destroying the court system are the second crimes.
Your Majesty is in the prime of life and is now devoted to studying the Six Classics, paying attention to state affairs, following the prosperous times of Tang and Yu, and admiring the virtuous monarchs of Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. Dong Yan did not follow the advice and study of the classics. Instead, he admired extravagant beauty, pursued luxury, indulged in sensual pleasures, and walked the path of evil and lewdness. This man was a great thief of the country and a ghost who deceived the emperor.
Dong Yan was the culprit of sexual immorality, and this was his third crime.
Once upon a time, Song Gongji encountered a fire and was burned to death because she abided by etiquette and waited for her nanny. She was respected by the princes. What should she do? His Majesty.
Emperor Wu remained silent for a long time and then said: I have already arranged a banquet and will correct it later.

summary:
summary line 3: When Lord Zhaoping, son of Princess Longlu, killed a nanny and faced execution, Emperor Wu mourned but upheld the law. Dongfang Shuo congratulated him, praising his impartiality. The emperor initially scolded him but later accepted his explanation that wine could relieve sorrow. Dongfang Shuo was demoted for urinating in the palace but reinstated after this exchange. He also advised against allowing Dong Yan, a favorite of Princess Guantao, into the palace, citing three crimes. Emperor Wu heeded his advice, and Dong Yan's influence waned.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
愿陛下留意察之。
朔虽诙笑，然时观察颜色，直言切谏，上常用之。
自公卿在位，朔皆敖弄，无所为屈。
上以朔口谐辞给，好作问之。
尝问朔曰： 先生视朕何如主也？
朔对曰： 自唐、虞之隆，成、康之际，未足以谕当世。
臣伏观陛下功德，陈五帝之上，在三王之右。
非若此而已，诚得天下贤士，公卿在位咸得其人矣。
譬若以周、邵为丞相，孔丘为御史大夫，太公为将军，毕公高拾遗于后，弁严子为卫尉，皋陶为大理，后稷为司农，伊尹为少府，子赣使外国，颜、闵为博士，子夏为太常，益为右扶风，季路为执金吾，契为鸿胪，龙逢为宗正，伯夷为京兆，管仲为冯翊，鲁般为将作，仲山甫为光禄，申伯为太仆，延陵季子为水衡，百里奚为典属国，柳下惠为大长秋，史鱼为司直，蘧伯玉为太傅，孔父为詹事，孙叔敖为诸侯相，子产为郡守，王庆忌为期门，夏育为鼎官，羿为旄头，宋万为式道侯。
上乃大笑。
是时，朝廷多贤材，上复问朔： 方今公孙丞相，皃大夫、董仲舒、夏侯始昌、司马相如、吾丘寿王、主父偃、朱买臣、严助、汲黯、胶仓、终军、严安、徐乐、司马迁之伦，皆辩知闳达，溢于文辞，先生自视，何与比哉？
朔对曰： 臣观其臿齿牙，树颊胲，吐唇吻，擢项颐，结股脚，连脽尻，遗蛇其迹，行步偊旅，臣朔虽不肖，尚兼此数子者。
朔之进对澹辞，皆此类也。
武帝既招英俊，程其器能，用之如不及。
时方外事胡、越，内兴制度，国家多事，自公孙弘以下至司马迁，皆奉使方外，或为郡国守相至公卿，而朔尝至太中大夫，后常为郎，与枚皋、郭舍人俱在左右，诙啁而已。
久之，朔上书陈农战强国之计，因自讼独不得大官，欲求试用。
其言专商鞅、韩非之语也，指意放荡，颇复诙谐，辞数万言，终不见用。
朔因著论，设客难己，用位卑以自慰谕。
其辞曰：
客难东方朔曰： 苏秦、张仪一当万乘之主，而都卿相之位，泽及后世。
今子大夫修先王之术，慕圣人之义，讽诵《诗》、《书》、百家之言，不可胜数，著于竹帛，唇腐齿落，服膺而不释，好学乐道之效，明白甚矣；自以智能海内无双，则可谓博闻辩智矣。
然悉力尽忠以事圣帝，旷日持久，官不过侍郎，位不过执戟，意者尚有遗行邪？
同胞之徒无所容居，其故何也？
东方先生喟然长息，仰而应之曰： 是固非子之所能备也。
彼一时也，此一时也，岂可同哉？
夫苏秦、张仪之时，周室大坏，诸侯不朝，力政争权，相禽以兵，并为十二国，未有雌雄，得士者强，失士者亡，故谈说行焉。
translation: 
I hope your Majesty will pay attention to the above matters.
Although Dongfang Shuo was humorous and funny, he always observed the emperor's face and spoke out when appropriate. Emperor Wu often adopted his opinions.
From the ministers to the ministers in office, Dongfang Shuo dared to despise and ridicule, and there was no one he was willing to submit to.
Because Dongfang Shuo was witty and quick-tongued, the emperor liked to ask Dongfang Shuo questions deliberately.
Emperor Wu once asked Dongfang Shuo: Sir, what kind of monarch do you think I am?
Dongfang Shuo replied: From the prosperous times of Tang and Yu to the eras of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou, it can be compared to the current world.
I think your majesty’s merits and virtues can be ranked above those of the Five Emperors and Three Kings.
Not only that, as expected, the wise men in the world were truly obtained, and the ministers and officials in office all had qualified candidates.
For example, Zhou Gongdan and Shao Gongshi were the prime ministers, Confucius was the censor, Jiang Taigong was the general, Bi Gonggao was the Taishi, Bian Yanyu was the Weiwei, Gaotao was Dali, Houji was Simong, and Yi Yin was In the Shaofu, Zigong was sent as an envoy to foreign countries, Yan Hui and Min Ziqian were doctors, Zixia was Taichang, Yi was Youfufeng, Zilu was Zhijinwu, Qi was Dahonglu, Guanlongfeng was Zongzheng, Boyi was Jingzhaoyin, Guan Zhong was Zuo Feng Yi, Lu Ban was the general and great craftsman, Zhong Shanfu was the official of Guanglu, Shen Bo was the imperial servant, Yanling Jizi was the captain of Shuiheng, Baili Xi was the Dianguo, Liu Xiahui was the Da Changqiu, and Shi Yu was the The prime minister was Sizhi, Zang Boyu was the Taifu, Confucius was the Minister of Zhan, Sun Shuao was the Prime Minister of the princes, Zi Chan was the county governor, Wang Qingji was a minister, Xia Yu was a Dingguan, Yi was a Taoist minister, and Song Wan was a Shi Daohou.
Emperor Wu burst out laughing after hearing this.
At this time, there were a large number of capable people in the court, and the emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Today, Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Doctor Ni Kuan, Dong Zhongshu, Xiahou Shichang, Sima Xiangru, King Wuqiu Shou, Zhufu Yan, Zhu Maichen, Yan Zhu, Ji An, Jiaocang, Zhongjun, Yan An, Xu Le, Sima Qian, etc. are all eloquent, intelligent and eloquent. Sir, see for yourself, how can you compare with them?
Dongfang Shuo replied: "I see that they have shovel teeth, tree bark gills, turned lips, long necks, knotted feet, even trousers, a meandering and sloping walk, and a bent body. Although Dongfang Shuo is not very good, he still has the advantages of these people."
Dongfang Shuo's speeches and responses are all like this.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had recruited outstanding men and women, weighed their talents, and was afraid of making mistakes when appointing them.
At that time, the foreign economic strategy was to ensure peace and stability, and the internal system was being established. The country was troubled. From the prime minister, Gong Huanhong, to the Siwuqian capital, they were ordered to go abroad, and some served as county governors, princes, ministers, and even ministers. Hui Zuosu was once an official and became a doctor in Taizhong, and later he often served as a minister. He, Meigao and Guo Sheren were all around Emperor Wu, and they were just humorous and mocking attendants.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo wrote to Chen Zuonong about his plan to strengthen the country through war. He took the opportunity to say that he had never been a high official and wanted to ask the emperor for a trial.
His memorial only used the remarks of Shang Yang and Han Fei. It was debauched and humorous. It contained tens of thousands of words, but was not reused in the end.
Dongfang Shuo then wrote a book and argued that if a guest accused him, he would use his low status to comfort and relieve himself with good words.
That article said:
Someone asked Dongfang Shuo: As soon as Su Qin and Zhang Yi met the monarch with ten thousand chariots, they became ministers, and their favor was passed down to future generations.
Now, sir, you practice the Taoism of the ancient emperors, admire the morality of the saints, recite and recite the "Poetry", "Books" and the books of hundreds of schools of thought, write books and treatises on bamboo slips and white silk.
However, for a long time, the emperor who tried his best to serve the sage with all his loyalty could no longer hold an official position like a minister, or hold a halberd in his position. It must be that his moral character still has shortcomings, right?
His official position is low, his salary is small, he cannot take care of others, and he has no place even for his brothers. What is the reason?
Mr. Dongfang sighed, raised his head and answered him: "This reason is not completely understandable to you."
Su Qin and Zhang Yi lived in the same era, and now they are in another era. How can they be the same?
In the era of Su Qin and Zhang Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the princes did not meet the emperor. They fought hard to fight for power and gain. They captured each other by force and merged into twelve vassal states, regardless of male or female. Those who gained scholars became stronger and those who lost them perished. Therefore, talking and lobbying became popular all over the world.

summary:
summary line 4: Dongfang Shuo urged Emperor Wu to emulate Emperor Wen's frugality to reform society, criticizing the current extravagance. When asked to compare himself to other scholars, he humorously belittled them. He wrote "Replying to Guests" and "On Mr. Feiyou," defending his low status and arguing that times had changed. In "On Mr. Feiyou," he discussed the dangers of outspoken advice and the importance of wise rulers. His works were recorded by Liu Xiang, though many rumors about him were false. Historians note his wit and humor, comparing him to a comedic figure, but his advice was often insightful.

